DICTIONARY
O F T H E

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
VOL

I.

Digitized by the Internet Archive
in

2007 with funding from
IVIicrosoft Corporation

/

http://vyww.archive.org/details/dictionaryofengl01johnuoft

Samuel Johk^son, i..i..d.

:

DICTIONARY
A

OF

THE

ENGLISH LANGUAGE:
I

N

WH

I

C H

THE WORDS ARE DEDUCED FROM THEIR ORIGINALS,
AND ILLUSXaATED IN THEIR DIFFERENT SIGNIFICATIONS BY EXAMPLES" FROM THE BEST WRITERS.
TO WHICH ARE PREFIXED,

A

HISTORYoF.THE LANGUAGE,
AND

An

ENGLISH GRAMMAR.
By

IN

SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D.

TWO VOLUMES.

V O

L.

L

^

THE SIXTH EDITION.

Cum tabulis animum cenforis fumet honefti
quKcunque paruin fplendoris habebunt,
Et fine pondere erunt, ct honore indigna ferentur,
Verba moverc loco; quamvis invita recedant,
Et vcrfciituT adhuc intra penetralia Vcftx:
Auilebit

Obfcurata d;u populo bonus eruet, atqUe
Proferct in luccm fpcctolii vocabula rerum,
(^i.x- prifcis

mcmorata Catonibus atque Cethsgis

Nunc fitus informis preinit ct delerta vetuftas.

HoR.

LONDON
Piinteil for J. F.

and C. Rivrrr.TOs, L. Davis, T. Payne and Sos, T. Losgmas, B. I, aw, J. Dodsley, C. Di^ly,

W. LowKors, G. G. J. ariil J. Kobinson, T. Cadeli., Jo. Johnson,,J. Kobson, W. Richardson, J. Nichols,
R. Ealdwih, W. Goldsmith, J. Murray, W. Stuart, P. Elmsly, W. Fox, S. H.vYtf, V. OoiuviE,

W. Bent, T. and J. Eoerton, J. Phillips, nnd M. NjiWBERV.
M.DCC.LXXXV.

;

R

E

F

A

C

E.

who toil at the lower employments of life, to be rather driven by the fear of'
than attrafted by the profpedt of good j to be expofed to cenfure, without hope of praife ; to be
difgraced by mifcarriage, or punifhed for negleft, where fuccefs would have been without applaufe,
and diligence without reward.

IT

is

the fate of thofe

evil,

Among thefe unhappy mortals is the writer of diflionarlesj whom mankind have confidered, not as the
pupil, but the Have of fcience, the pioneer of literature,

doomed only to remove rubbifh and clear ob-

ftruftions from the paths through which Learning and Genius prefs forwai-d to conqueft and glory, without

bellowing a fmile on the humble drudge that facilitates their progrefs.

Every other author may afpire to

praife; the lexicographer can only hope to efcape reproach, and even this negative recompenfe has been yet

granted to very few.
I have, notwithftanding this difcouragement, attempted a Dictionary of the Englijh language, which,
while it was employed in the cultivation of every fpecies of literature, has itfelf been hitherto neglefted j

fuffered to fpread, under the direftion of chance, into wild exuberance ; refigned to the tyranny of time

and fafhion; and expofed to the corruptions of ignorance, and caprices of innovation.

"When I took the firft furvey of my undertaking, I found our fpeech copious without order, and
energetick without rules: wherever I turned my view, there was perplexity to be difentangled, and confufion to be regulated; choice was to be made out of boundlefs variety, without any eftablifhed principle
of feledlion adulterations were to be deted:ed, without a fettled tcft of purity ; and modes of expreffion
to be rejefted or received, without the fuffrages of any writers of claflical reputation or acknowledged
;

authority.

Having therefore no affiftance but from general grammar, I applied myfelf to the perufal of our writers
and noting whatever might be of ufe to afcertain or illuftrate any word or phrafc, accumulated in time the
materials of a didionary, which, by degrees, I reduced to method, eftablifliing to myfelf, in the progrefs
of the work, fuch rules as experience and analogy fuggefted to me ; experience, which pradice and obfervation were continually increafing; and analogy, which, though in fome words obfcure, was evident in
Others.

In adjufting the Orthography, which iias been to this time unfetcled and fortuitous, I found it neceffary to diftinguilh thofe irregularities that are inherent in our tongue, and perhaps coeval with it, from
others. which the ignorance or negligence of later writers has produced.
Every language has its anomalies,

which, though inconvenient, and in themfelves once unneceffary, muft be tolerated among the imperfections of human things, and which require only to be rcgiflered, that they may not be increafed, and afcertained, that they may not be confounded: but every language has likewife its improprieties and abfurdides,
which it is the duty of the lexicographer to corredl or profcribe.

As language was at its beginning merely oral, all words of neceflary or common ufe 'were ifjolicn be-.
fore they were written ;

and while they were unfixed by any vifible figns, muft ha,ve been fpoken with
great diverfity, as we now obferve thofe who cannot read to catch founds imperfeftly, and utter them
negligently. When this wild and barbarous jargon was firft reduced to an alphabet, every penman endea-

voured to exprefs,

as he could,

the founds which he was accuftomed to pronounce or to receive, and viwords as were already vitiated in fpeech. The powers of the letters, when they
were applied to a new language, muft have been vague and unfettlcd, and therefore different hands would
exhibit the fame found by diiFerent combinations,
tiated in writing fuch

7

From

PREFACE.
From this uncfrtain pronunciation arifc in a great part the various dialcds of the fame country, which
and from this arbitrary
will alwAVs bcr obfcrved to grow fewer, and lefs different, as books are multiplied ;
obfcrvablc
in the Saxon remains,
fpclling
of
divcrfity
that
proceeds
reprcfc-nt.uion of founds by letters,
and I fupjx>fc in the firft books of every nation, which perplexes or dcftroys analogy, and produces anomaUius formations, that, being once incorporated, can never be afterwards difmiffed or reformed.

Of this kind arc the derivatives length from long, Jirwgth from ftrong, darling from dear, breadth from
kr—d^ from dry^ drought, and from' high,

which Miltctt, in real for analogy, writes highthi
all would be too much, and to change one is
change
to

height,

^id te fxempta JHvat Jpinis de pluribus una ?
nothing.

'rninty is moft frequent in the Vowels, which are fo capricioufly pronounced, and fo difFeri,
by accident or afFcAation, not only in every province, but in every mouth, that to
cnily
them, as Vk well known to ctymologifts, little regard is to be (hewn in the dcdu<5bion of one language from
Tl)i

i:

JUiotlier.

are not errours in orthography, but fpots of barbarity imprefl*ed fo deep in the EtigUJh
language, that criticifm can never wa(h ihcm away : thefe, therefore, muft be permitted to remain un-

Such defeifls

touched ; but many words have likcwife been altered by accident, or depraved by ignorance, as the pronunciation of the vulgar has been weakly followed ; and fome ftill continue to be varioufly written, as
of thefe it was proper to enquire the true orthography, which 1 have
authors differ in their care or fkill
always confidcreil as depending on their derivation, and have therefore referred them to their original languages : thus I write enchant, enchantment, enchanter, after the French, and incantation after the Latin thus
tniire is chofcn rather than intire, becaufc it paffcd to us not from the Latin integer, but from the French
:

;

tntiir.

Of many words it is difficult to fay whether they were immediately received from the Latin or the
It is,
French, fincc at the time v^hen we had dominions in France, we had Latin fcrvice in our churches.
however, my opinion, that the French generally fupplied us j for we hav^ few Latin words, among the
terms of domeftick ufe, which are not French; but many French, which are very remote from Latin.

Even in words of Jwhich the derivation is apparent, I have been often obliged to facrifice uniformity to
cuffom J thus I write. In compliance v ith a numberlefs majority, convey and inveigh, deceit and receipt,
fancy and phantom fomctimes the derivative varies from the primitive, as explain and explanation, repeat
-,

4f>d repetition.

Some combinations of letters having the fame power, are ufed indifirrently without any difcoverable

'

reafon of choice, as in choak, choke ; /oap,fope ; fewel, fuel, and many others; which I have fomctimes infcrted twice, that thofe who fearch for them under either form, may not fcarch in vain.

In examining the orthography of any doubtful word, the mode of fpelling by which it is infcrted in the
of the dictionary, is to be confidercd as that to which I give, perhaps not often rafhly, the prefer-

!

(cries

the examples, to every author Iiis own praftice unmolefled, that the reader may
and judge between us: but this qucftion is not always to be determined by reputed or
by rf.n Irirniii'i;; fome men, intent upon greater things, have thought little on founds and derivations;
in the ancient tongues, have neglefted tnofe in which our words are commonly to be fought.
f)
" '> (or feajillenejs, becaufe I fuppofe he imagined it derived immediately
T'
writes "
Tr''
_
;
and
uds, fuch as dependant, dependent; dependance, dependence, vary their final
lyllablc, as one or another language is prefent to the writer.

ence.

I

have

left, in

J)alar.ce fuffrages,

.'

.

,

;

I

Jn this part of the work, where caprice has long wantoned without controul, and vanity fought praife

by petty reformation, I have endeavoured to proceed with a fcholar's reverence for antiquity, and a grampiarian's regard to die genius of our tongue.
I have attempted few alterations, and among tiiofe few,
perhaps the greater part is from the modern to the ancient praftice ; and I hope I may be allowed to recorv — ' to thofe, whofe thoughts have been perlnps employed too anxioufly oii verbal fingularitics, not
|(>
upon narrow views, or for minute propriety, the orthography of their fatliers. It has been
afll-rted, that for tlie law to be kninvn, is of more imf)ortance than to be right.
Change, fays Hooker, is
rot made without inconvenience, even from worfe to better. There is in conft^ancy and Itability a general
and lafling advantage, which wiU always overbalance the flow improvements of gradual
correction.
"

$

Much

PREFACE.
Much lefs ought our written language to comply with the corruptions of oral utterance, or copy that
which every variation of time or place makes different from itfelf, and imitate thofe changes, which will
again be changed, while imitation is employed in obferving them.

This recommendation of fteadinefs and uniformity does not proceed from an opinion, that particular
combinations of letters have much influence on human happinefs ; or that truth may not be fuccefsfully
taught by modes of fpelling fanciful and erroneous
I am not yet fo loft in lexicography, as to forget that
wcrds are the daughters of earth, and that things are the Jons of heaven. Language is only the inftrument
of fcience, and words are but the figns of ideas I wifh, however, that the inftrument might be lefs apt to
decay, and that figns might be permanent, like the things which they denote.
:

:

In fetding the orthography, I have not wholly negleded the pronunciation, which I have direfted,
by printing an accent upon the acute or elevated fyllable. It will fometimes be found, that the accent
is placed by the author quoted, on a different fyllable from that marked in the alphabetical feries ; it is
then to be underftood, that cuftom has varied, or that the author has, in my opinion, pronounced wrong.
Short directions are fometimes given where the found of letters is irregular and if they are fometimes
omitted, defedl in fuch minute obfervations will be more eafily excufed, than fuperfiuity.
;

In the inveftigation both of the orthography and fignification of words, their Etymology was necef^
pribe confidered, and they were therefore to be divided into primitives and derivatives.
mitive word, is that which can be traced no furdier to any Englijh root ; thus circumfpe£ty circumvent, cir-

A

farily to

though compounds in the Latin, are to us primitives.
vatives are all thofe that can be referred to any word in Englijh of greater fimplicity.
cumjiance, delude, concave, and complicate,

Deri-

The derivatives I have referred to their primitives, with an accuracy fometimes needlefs ; for who does
not fee that remotenejs comes from remote, lovely from love, concavity from concave, and demonftrative from
It is
demonftrate ? but this grammatical exuberance the fcheme of my work did not allow me to reprcfs.
of great importance, in examining the general fabrick of a language, to trace one word from another, by
noting the ufual modes of derivation and inflexion ; and uniformity muft be preferved in fyftematical
v.orks, though fometimes at the cxpence of particular propriety.

Among other derivatives I have been careful to infert and elucidate the anomalous plurals of nouns and
preterites of verbs, which

in the Teutonick dialcfts are very frequent, and,

though familiar to thofe who

have always ufed them, interrupt and embarrafs the learners of our language.

The two languages from which our primitives have been derived are the Roman and Teutonick : under
Roman I comprehend the French and provincial tongues ; and under the Teutonick range the Saxony
German, and all their kindred dialecfts. Moft of our polyfyllables are Roman, and our words of one fyltlic

lable are very often Teutonick.

In afllgning the Roman original, it has perhaps fometimes happened that I have mentioned only the
Latin, when the word was borrowed from the French; and confidcring myfelf as employed only in the
.

my own language, I have not been very tarefulto obferve whether the Latin word be pure
or barbarous, or the French elegant or obfolete.
ilhiftration of

For the Teutonick etymologies I am commonly indebted to Junius and Skinner, the only names which I
have forborn to quote when I copied their books not that I might appropriate their labours or ufurp their
honours, but that I might fpare a general repetition by one general acknowledgment.
Of thefe, whom I
ought not to mention bur with the reverence due to inftruflors and benefaftors, Junius appears to have
excelled in extent of learning, and Skinner in re6litude of underftanding.
Junius was accurately flcilled in
all tiie northern languages. Skinner probably examined the ancient and remoter dialefts only by occafional
infpedion into diftionaries ; but the learning of Junius is often of no other ufe than to fliow him a track by
which he may deviate from his purpofe, to v/hich Skinner always prcffes forward by the Ihorteft way.
Skinner is often ignorant, but never ridiculous Junius is always full of knowledge j but his variety diftracts
his judgment, and his learning is very frequently difgraced by his abfurditics.
;

:

The votaries of the northern mufes will not perhaps eafily reftrain their indignation, when they find the
name o( Junius thus degraded by a difailvantageous comparifon

but whatever reverence is due to his dino criminal degree of cenibiioufnefs to charge that etym.ologift with
want of judgment, who can ferioufly derive dream from drama, becaufe life is a drama, and a drama is a
dream j
ligence, or his attainments, it can be

;

PREFACE.
dreant ; and who declares with a tone of defiance, that no man can fail to derive
*.
Jingle or Jolitary, who confiders that grief naturally loves to be alone

moan from /^e'l-of, mono$y

Our knowledge of the northern literature is fo fcanty, that of words undoubtedly 7V7</o»/V^, the original is
not always to be found in any ancient language ; and I have therefore infcrted Dutch or German fubftitutes>
which I confider not as radical, but parallel, not as the parents, but fifters of the Englijh.

The words which are reprefented as thus related by defcent or cognation, do not always agree in fenfe j
for it is incident to words, as to their authors, to degenerate from their anceftors, and to change their manners
It is fufficient, in etymological enquiries, if the fenfcs of kindred words
be found fuch as may eafily pafs into each other, or fuch as may both be referred to one general idea.

when they change their country.

The etymology, fo far as it is yet known, was eafily found in the volumes where it is particularly and
profelTedly delivered ; and, by proper attention to the rules of derivation, the orthography was foon adof our language was a tafk of greater difficulty : the deficiency of
jufted.
But to COLLECT the

Words

and when they were exhaufted, what was yet wanting muft be
fought by fortuitous and unguided excurfions into books, and gleaned as induftry fhould find, or chance
fearch, however, has been either fkilful or
fhould offer it, in the boundlefs chaos of a living fpeech.
lucky i for I have much augmented the vocabulaiy.

diftionaries was immediately apparent

-,

My

x\s my defign was a diftionary, common or appellative, I have omitted all words which have relation to
proper names ; fuch as Avian, Socinian, Calvinijt, Benediifine, Mahometan ; but have retained thofe of ^
more general nature, as Heathen, Pagan.

Of the terms of art I have received fuch as could be found either in books of fcience or technical dictionaries ;

and have often inferted, from philofophical writers, words which are fiipported perhaps only by

a fingle authority, and which being not admitted into general ufe, ftand yet as candidates or probationers,

and muft depend for their adoption on the fuffrage of futurity.

The words which our authors have introduced by their knowledge of foreign languages, or ignorance
of their own, by vanity or wantonnefs, by compliance with falhion or luft of innovation, I have regiftered
as they occurred, though commonly only to cenfure them, and warn others againft the folly of naturalizing
ufelefs foreigners to the injury of the natives.
I have not rejefted any by defign, merely becaufe they were unnecefliary or exuberant ; but have received thofe which by different writers have been differently formed, as vi/cidy and vijcidity, vifcous, and

vijajity.

Compounded or double words I have feldom noted, except when they obtain a fignification different
from that which the components have in their fimple ftate. Thus highwayman, woodman, and horfecourfer,
require an explanation ; but of thieflike or coachdriver no notice was needed, becaufe the primitives Contain
the meaning of the compounds.

Words arbitrarily formed by a conftant and fettled analogy, like diminutive adjeftives in ijh, as greenijkf,
lluijb ;

adverbs in ly, as dully, openly ; fubflf Aiitives in nejs, as vilenejs, faultinejs ; were lefs diligently fought,
infert them; not that they

and fometimes have been omitted, when I had no authority that invited me to
• That I may not appear to have fpoken too irreverently of
Junius, I have here fubjoined a few fpeciraens of hii ctyinological extravagance.
'

Bamish, religare, ex banno vel territorio exigere, in exiliiim
»gere.

nen.

G. bannir.

It.

bandire,bandeggiare.

H. bandir. B. ban-

M\\ tnedii fcriptores bannire dicebant. V. Spclm. in Ban-

num iV in Banleuga. Quoniam vcro regionum urbiumq; limites
ar^uis plerumq; montibi.s altis fluminibus, longis deniq; Qcxuofifq; anguftilfimarum viarum amfraaxbus includebantur, fieri
poteft id genus l.mites *fl«diciab eo quod Ba.,»Ta.
B«»a\«

&

Tarentiais ol.m, ficuti tradit Hefychius, vocabantur «: Xo^i. >.fx\
ftn ^9i/Ti»iK JJoi, "obliquae acminimc inreaum tendcntes vi^."

Ac fortafTe quoque hue facit quod B..J,«, eoden. Hefychio telle.
dicebant %^ re«yyv'A„ montes arduo...

_

.

fcMPxy, emie, -vacuus, UamS. A. S. ^mti^. Ncfcio an fint
ab .f«« vel i^ilao,. Vomo, evomo, vomitu evacuo. Videtur intcvjm

ubi antique fcriptuminvenimns jemoeteb hit emerij.
" nit earn vacantem."

" Inve-

^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ p^ g. hyll. Quod videri poteft abfcifum
ex koX/'mi vel w^utl^. Collit, tumulus, locus in piano editior,
Horn. II. b. v. 8il. tri ^s ti? ir^o9ra^oi8t «o^so{ amiia, xoPiinj.
Ubi authori brevium fcholiorum xoAwnj exp. tojtov iij a^a^ atn*.u*,
yixMipof

e4''X''*

iSIap, to take
p^^ g.

Dormire, condormifcere. Cym. heppian.
Quod poftremum videri potcll defuraptiim ex

a nap.

hna:ppan.

^^..^aj, obfcuritas,

te.iebra; :

nihil

enim a-que

folet

conciliare

fomnum, quam caliginofa profunda noai^obfcuritas.

/^
il
ui r
c-i- mx^a/to
a o _
Balbu^, Wa:fus. Goth. STAMMb, A. S. praStammerer, t>
.i.

'"en. J^amun. D. ftam. B. ftamder. Su. ftam.na. fft. ftamr. bunt
a TuiMhut vel fuu.i?^>^i"r nimia loquacitate alios oftendere ; quod
jnip^aue loquentcs libentillime garriie foleant ; vel quod aliis
r,.„,n„ vi-jcantur. etiam oarciffimc loauentcs.

^,

arc

PREFACE.
arc not genuine and regular ofFsprlngs of EngUjh roots, but becaufe their relation to the primitive being
always the fame, their fignification cannot be miftaken.

The verbal nouns in in^, fuch as the keeping of the caftle, the leading of the armyy are always neglefted,
or placed only to illuftrate the fenfe of the verb, except when they fignify things as well as adioiis, and
have therefore a plural number, as d-welling, living 5 or have an abfolute and abftrad: fignification, as colcurifig, painting,

leanring.

^

The participles are likewife omitted, unlefs,

by fignifying rather habit or quality than adlion, they take

the nature of adjeftives j as a.- thinking man, a man of prudence j a pacing horfe, a horfe that can pace: thefe
But neither are thefe always inferted, becaufe they are comI have ventured to call participial adjcSlives.
monly to be underftood, without any danger of miftake, by confulting the verb.

Obfolete words are admitted, when they arc found in authors not obfolcte, or when they have any force
or beauty that may defcrve revival.

As compofition is one of the chief charafterifticks of a language, I have endeavoured to make fbme
reparation for the univerfal negligence of my predeceflbrs, by inferting great numbers of compounded-

Thefe, numerous as they
words, as may be found under after, fore, new, night, fair, and many more.
are, might be multiplied, but that ufe anfl curiofity are here fatisfied, and tlie frame of our language an^
modes of our combination amply difcovered.
,

Of fome forms of compofition, fuch as that by which re is prefixed to note repetition, and «« to fignify
examples cannot be accumulated, becaufe the ufe of thefe particles, if not
wholly arbitrary, is fo little limited, that they arc hourly affixed to new words as occafion requires, or is
imagined to require them.
tontrariety or privation^ all the

There is another kind of compofition more Frequent in our language than perhaps in any other, from
which arifes to foreigners the ereateft: difficulty. We modify the fignification of many words by a particle
fubjoined
as to come off, to elcape by a fetch ; to fall on, to attack j to fall off, to apollatize
to break
off, to ftop abruptly; to bear out, to julbfy; to fall in, to comply ; to give over, to ceafe j to Jet off, to
;

5

embellifli ; to Jet in, to begin a continual tenour j

to Jet out, to begin a courfe or journey j to lake off^ td
with innumerable expreflions of die fame kind, of which fome appear widely irregular, being fci
far diftant from the fenfe of the fimple words, that no fagacity will be able to trace the fteps by which
they arrived at the prefent ufe. Thefe I have noted with great care ; and though I cannot flatter myfelf
that the coUeftion is complete, I believe I have lb far aflifted the fiiudents of our language, that this kind
of phrafeology will be no longer infuperable and the combinations of verbs and particles, by chance
©mitted, will be eafily explained by comparifon with thofe that may be found.

<opy

;

;

Many words yet ftand fijpported only by the name of Bailey, Ainjworth, Philips, or the contra(5ted 'DiSt.
for Diffionaries fubjoined; of thefe I am not always certain that they are read in any book but the works

of lexicographers.
ferted, becaufe ' they

Of fuch I have omitted many, becaufe I had neverread them and many I have inmay perhaps exifl:, though they have efcaped my notice they are, however, to be
;

:

yet confidered as refiling only upon the credit of former diftionaries.
Others, which I confidefed as ufeful,
or know to be proper, though I could not at prefent fupport them by authorities, I have fuffwed to ftand
upon my own atteftation, claiming the fame privilege with my predeceflTor*, of being fometimes credited
"without proof.

The words, thus fdefted and difpofcd, are grammatically confidered
parts of fpcech ; traced,

when they are irregularly inflefted, through

;

they are referred to the diff*erent

and ilof great or firiking importance, feparately confidered, but neccfifary
to the elucidation of our language, and hitherto neglefted or forgotten by Englifh grammarians.
their various terminations^;

luftratcd by obfcrvations, not indeed

That part of my work on which I expeft malignity mod frequently to faften, is the Explanation; in
which I cannot hope to fatisfy thofe, who arc perhaps not ini lined to be pleafed, fince I have not always
been able to fatisfy myfelf To interpret a language by itfelf is very difficult; many words cannot be
explained by fynonimes, becaufe the idea fignified by them has not more than one appellation ; nor by
paraphrafe, becaufe fimple ideas cannot be dtfcribed.
When the nature of things is unknown, or the
notion unfcttlcd and indefinite, and various in various minds, the words by which fuch nodons are conveyed, or fuch things denoted, will be ambiguous and perplexed.
And fuch is the fate of haplefs lexicography, that not only darknefs, but light, impedes and diftreflcs it thinjgs may be not only too little, but
;

Vol. I.

b

'

tq©

PREFACE.
To explain, require^ the ufc of terms Icfs abftrufe than that
too mnch kno^'tt, to br happily ilkiftrated.
which is to be explained, and fuch terms cannot always be found ; for as nothing can be proved but the
fuppofmg fomething intuitively known, and evident without proof, fo nothing can be defined but by die
uie of words too plain to admit a definition.
Other words there are, of which the fenfe is too fubtle and cvanefcent to be fixed in a paraphrafe j fuch
are all thofc which are by the grammarians termed expUiives, and, in dead languages, are fuffered to pafs
for empty founds,

of no other ufe than to fill a verfe, or to modulate a period, but whicJi are eafily perceived in living tongues to have power and emphafisj though it be fometimes fuch as no other form of
exprelTion can convey.

My labour has likewifc been much increafed by a clafs of verbs too frequent in the Englijh language,
of which the lignification is fo loofe and general, tlie ufe fo vague and indeterminate, and tlie fenfes detortcd fo widely from the firft idea, that it is hard to trace them through the maze of variation, to catch
them on the brink of utter inanity, to circumfcribe them by any limitations, or interpret them by any
words of diftinft and fettled meaning; fuch are bear, break, come, caft,full, get, give, do, put. Jet, go, run, make,
take, turn, throw.
If of thefe the whole power is not accurately delivered, it muft be remembered,
that while our language is yet living, and variable by the caprice of every one that Ipeaks it, thefe words
arc hourly fhifting their relations, and can no more be afcertained in a diftionary, than a grove, in the agitation of a ftorm, can be accurately delineated from its piflure in the water.
The particles are among all nations applied with fo great latitude, that they are not eafily reducible wmder
any regular fcheme of explication this difficulty is not lefs, nor perhaps greater, in Englijh, than in other
languages.
I have laboured them with diligence, I hope with fuccefs
fuch at leaft as can be expeifted in
a tafk, which no man, however learned or fagacious, has yet been able to perform.
:

;

Some words there are which I cannot explain, becaufe I do not underftand them ; thefe might have
been omitted very often with little inconvenience, but I would not fo far indulge my vanity as to decline
for when Tully owns himfelf ignorant whether lejjus, in the twelve tables, means a Juneral
this confcfTion
Jong, or mourning garment ; and Arijlctle doubts whether ouf luj, in the Iliad, fignifies a mule, or mtileteery
I may furely, without fhame, leave fome obfcurities to happier indufb-y, or future information.
:

The rigour of interpretative lexicography requires that the explanation, and the word explained, Jhould be
»lways reciprocal j this I have always endeavoured, but could not always attain.
Words are fcldom cxaftly fynonimous; a new term was not introduced, but becaufe the former was thought inadequate:
names, therefore, have often many ideas, but few ideas have many names. It was then necefTary to ufc
the proximate word, for the deficiency of lingle terms can very feldom be fupplied by circumlocution
nor is the inconvenience great of fuch mutilated interpretations, becaufe the fenfe may eafily be coUefted
entire from the examples.
In every word of extenfive ufe, it was requifite to mark the progrefs of its meaning, and fhow by what
gradations of intermediate fenfe it has pafTcd from its primitive to its remote and accidental fignification
{o that every foregoing explanation fhould tend to that which follows, and die ferles be regularly concate-

nated from thcfiril notion to the laft.

This is fpecious, but not always prafticable ; kindred fenfes may be fb interwoven, that the perplexity
cannot be difentangled, nor any reafon be afligned why one (houkl be ranged before the other. When the
radical idea branches out into parallel ramifications, iiow can a confecutive feries be formed of fenfes in
their nature collateral ? The thades of meaning fometimes pafs imperceptibly into each other ; fo that
Ideas of the
tliough on one fide they apparently tlifi'er, yet it is impofTible to mark the point of contaft.
fame race, though not exaffly alike, are fometimes fo little different, diat no words can exprefs the difTimilitudc, though the mind eafily perceives it, when they are exhibited together ; and fometimes there is fuch
a confufion of acceptations, that difcernment is wearied, and diflinftion puzzled, and perfcverance herfelf
hurries to an end, by crowding together what flie cannot feparate.
Thefe complaints of difficulty will, by thofe that have never confidered words beyond their popular wie,
be thought only the jargon of a man willing to magnify his labours, and procure veneration to his ftudies
by involution and obfcurity. But every art is obfcure to thofe that have not learned it this uncertainty of
terms, and commixture of ideas, is well known to diofe who have joined philofopliy with grammar ; and if
I have
:

R

.:p
I

have not exprefled them very clearly,

E
it

F

A

C

E.

muft be remembered that I am fpeaking of that which words arc.

infufficient to explain.

The original fenfe of words is often driven out of ufe by theii" metaphorical acceptations, yet muft be
Thus I know not whether ardour is ufed for material heat,

inferted for the fake of a regular origination.

or vihcxher flagrant, in Englifi, ever fignifies the fame with burning yet fuch are the primitive Ideas of thefc
words, which are therefore let firft, diough without examples, that the figurative fenfes may be comniOrdioufly deduced.
-,

Such is the exuberance of fignification which many words have obtained, tha.t it was fcarcely poffible to
fometimes the meaning of derivatives mull be fought in the mother ternri, and
colieft all their fcnles
In any cafe
explanations
of the primitive may be fupplied in the train of derivation.
fometimes deficient
words
of
the
fame
race
for
fome
will
all
the
words
difficulty,
it
be
always
proper
to
examine
of doubt or
all
clearer
explanation
than
others,
and
over
avoid
fome
admitted
eafier
and
fiightly
pafied
to
repetition,
are
ftruftures
relations.
undeiilood,
as
they
confidered
in
greater
variety
of
and
better
are
will be
;

;

All the interpretatipns of words are not written with the fame flcill, or the fame happinefs : things equally

Eveiy writer of a long work cornmits
eafy in themfelves, are not all equally eafy to any fingle mind.
errours, where there appears neither ambiguity to miflead, nor obfcurity to confound him ; and in a fearch
like

this,

forgotten,

many felicities of expreffion will be cafually overlooked, many convenient parallels will be
and many particulars will admit improvement from a mind utterly-unequal to the whole

performance.

But many feeming faults arc to be imputed rather to the nature of the undertaking, than the negligence
of the performer. Thus fome explanations are unavoidably reciprocal or circular, as hind, the female of
the flag; flag, the male of the hind: fometimes eafier words are changed into harder, as hurial into feptilture or interment, drier into deficcative, drynefs into ftccity or aridity, fit into paroxyfm ; for the eafieft'word,
•whatever it be, can never be tranflated into one more eafy.
But eafinefs and difficulty are merely relative,
and if the prefent prevalence of our language Ihould invite foreigners to this diftionary, many will be affifted by thofe wordp which now feem only to increafe or produce obfcurity.
For this reafon I have endeavoured frequently to join a Teutonick and Roman interpretation, as to cheer, to gladden, or exhilarate,
that every learner of Englijh may be affifted by his own tongue.

The folution of all difficulties, and the fupply of all defefts, muft be fought in the examples, fubjoined
to the various fenfes of each word, and ranged according to the time of their authors.

r^

When I firft collefted thefe authorities, I was defirous that every quotation ftiould be ufeful to fome
other end than the illuftration of a word ;

I therefore extrafted from pliilofophers principles of fcience
from hiftofians remarkable faifls from chymifts complete procefles from divines ftriking exhortations ;
and from poets beautiful defcriptions. Such is defign, while it is yet at a diftance from execution.
"When the time called upon me to range this accumulation of elegance and wifdom into an alphabetical
fcries, 1 foon difcovered that the bulk of ray volumes would fright away the ftudent, and was forced to
depart from my fcheme of including all that was pkafing or ufeful in Englijh literature, and reduce my
trar/crlpts very often to clufters of words, In which fcarcely any meaning is retained
thus to tiie wearinefs
of copying, I was condemned to add the vexation of expunging.
Some pafTages I have yet fpared, which
may relieve the labour of verbal fearchcs, and interfperfe with verdure and flowers the dully defarts of
;

;

;

barren philology.
'I*he examples,

of their authors

;

thus mutilated, are no longer to be confidered as conveying the fentiments or dodlrinc
the word for the fake of which they are inferted, with all its appendant claufes, has been

it may fometimes happen, by hafty detruncation, that die general tendency of
the fcntencc may be changed : the divine may defert his tenets, or the philofopher his fyilem.

carefully preferved ; but

Some of the examples have been taken from writers who were never mentioned as mailers of elegance
or models offtylc; but words muft be fought where they arc ufcd
and In wluit pages, eminent for purity,
can terms of manufadlure or agriculture be found? Many quotations fcrve no other purpofe, than that
of proving the bare exiftence of words, and are therefore feledled with Icfs fcrupuloufnefs than thofe which
;

are to teach their ftru<flures and relations.

My purpofe was to admit no teftimony of living authors, that I might not be mifled by partiality, and
•that none of

my contemporaries might have reafon to complain
h %

;

nor have

I

departed from this refolutlon,
but
.

r

B

ft

P

A

C

E.

but when fomc performance of uncommon excellence excited my veneration, when my memory fuppHecf
me, from late books, with an example that was wanting, or when my heart, in the tendernefs of friendfhip,
folicited adiniilion for a favourite

name.

So far have I been from any care to grace my pages with modern decorations, that I have ftudioofly endeavoured to colle<5l examples and authorities from the writers before the reftoration, whofe works I regani as the wells of Engliflj undeJUed, as the pure fources of genuine diftion. Our language, for almoft
a century, has, by the concurrence of many caufes, been gradually departing from its original 'Teutonick
xharafter, and deviating towards a Gallick ftnu5hjre and phrafeology, from which it ought to be our endeavour to recal it, by making our ancient volumes the ground-work of ftyle, admitting among the additions of later times, only fuch as may fupply real deficiencies, fuch as are readily adopted by the genius
of our tongue, and incorporate eafily with our native idioms.

But as every language has a time of rudenefs antecedent to perfefbion, as well as of falfe refinement and
declenfion, I have Iseen cautious left my zeal for antiquity might drive me into times too remote, and
crowd my book with words now no longer underftood. I Iiave fixed Sidney's work for the boundary, beyond which I make few excurfions. From the authors which rofe in the time of Elixabetb, a fpeech might
be formed adequate to all the purpofes of ufe and elegance. If the language of theology were extraftcd
from Hooker and the tranflation of the Bible j the terms of natural knowledge from Bacon ; the phrafes of
the dialed of poetry and fidlion from Spenfer and Sidney ; and
|X)licy, war, and navigation from Raleigh
the didion of common life from Sbakefpeafe, few ideas would be loft to mankind, for want of Englijh words,
in which they might be exprefled.
-,

It is not fufficient that a word is found, unlefs it be fb combined as that its meaning is apparently deterAiined by the tra£t and tenour of the fentence ; fuch paflages I have therefore cliofen, and when it happened
rhat any author gave a definition of a term, or fuch an explanation as is equivalent to a definition, I have

placed his authority as a fupplement to my own, without regard to the chronological order, that is other'

wife obferved.

Some words, indeed, ftand unfupported by any authority, but they are commonly derivative nouns, or
adverbs, formed from their primitives by regular and conftant analogy, or names of things feldom occur*
ring in books, or words of which I have reafon to doubt the exiftence.
There is more danger of cenfure from the multiplicity than paucity of examples ; authorities will
fomerimes feem to have been accumulated without necelTity or ufe, and perhaps fome will be found, which
might, without lofs, have been omitted.
But a work of this kind is not haftily to be charged with
fuperfluities : thofe quotations, which to carelefs or unfkilful perufers appear only to repeat the fame
fenfe, will often exhibit, to a more accurate examinep, diverfities of fignification, or, at leaft, afford different
fhades of the fame meaning; one will lliew the word applied to perfons, another to things; one will exprefs an ill, another a good, and a third a neutral fenfe j one will prove the exprefTion genuine from aft
ancient author
another will fhew it elegant from a modern a doubtful authority is corroborated by
another of more credit ; an ambiguous fentence is afcertained by a paflage clear and determinate ; the
word, how often foever repeated, appears with new affociates and in different combinations, and every quotation contributes Ibmething to the ftability or enlargement of the language.
;

:

"When words are ufcd equivocally, I receive them in either fenfe ; when they are metaphorical, I adopt
them in their primitive acceptation.
1 hare fometimes, though rarely, yielded to the temptation of exhibiting a genealogy of fentiments, by
(hewing how one author copied the thoughts and diftion of another: fuch quotations are indeed little more
than repetitions, which might juftly be cenfured, did they not gratify the mind, by affording a kind of in-

telleftual hiftory.

The various fyntadlical ftruftures occurring in the examples have been carefully noted j the licence or
negligence with which many words have been hitherto ufed, has made our ftyle capricious and indeterminate ; when the different combinations of the fame word are exhibited together, the preference is readily
given to propriety, and I have often endeavoured to direfb the choice.
Thus have I laboured by fetding the orthography, difplaying the analogy, regulating the ftruftures, and
afceruining the fignification of Englijb words, to perform all the parts of a faithful lexicographer : but I
have

4

PREFACE.
have not ^ways executed my own fchernc, or fatisfied my own expeftations. The work, whatever proofs
of diligence and attention it may exhibit, is yet capable of many improvements: the orthography which
I recommend is ftill controvertible, the etymology which I adopt is uncertain, and perhaps frequently erroneous ; the explanations are fometimes too much contrafted, and fometimes too much difFufed, the
fignifications are diftinguiflied rather with fubtilty than fkill, and the attention is harafled with unneceflary
minutenefs.

The examples are too often injudicioufly truncated, and perhaps fometimes, I hope very rarely, alleged
in a miftaken fenfe ; for in making this colledlion I trufted more to memory, than, in a flate of difquiet and
embarraffinent, memory can contain, and purpofed to fupply at the review what was left incomplete in the
firft tranfcription.

'.

Many terms appropriated to particular occupations, though neceffary and figniFxant, are undoubtedly

omitted ; and of the words moft ftudioufly confidered and exemplified, many fenfes have efcaped obfervation.

Yet thefe failures, however frequent, may admit extenuation and apology. To have attempted
much is always laudable, even when the enterprize is above tiie ftrength that undertakes it To reft
below his own aim is incident to every one whofe fancy is aftive, and whofe views are comprehenfive ;
nor is any man fatisfied with himfelf becaufe he has done much, but becaufe he can conceive httle:

When firft I engaged in this work, I refolved to leave neither words nor things unexamined, and pleafed
myfelf with a profpeft of the hours wiiich I ftiould revel away in feafts of literature, the obfcure
recefles of northern learning which I Ihould enter and ranfack, the treafures with which I expefted
every fearch into thofe neglected mines to reward my labour, and the triumph with which I ftiould disWhen I had thus enquired into the original of words, I refolved to
play my acquifitions to mankind.
Jhow likewife my attention to things ; to pierce deep into every fcience, to enquire the nature of every
fubftance of which I inferted the name, to limit every idea by a definition ftridly logical, and exhibit every
produftion of art or nature in an accurate defcription, that my book might be in place of all other di£tio-»
But thefe were the dreams of a poet doomed at laft to wake a,
naries whether appellative or technical.
lexicographer.
I foon found that it is too late to look for inftruments, when the work calls for execution,
and that whatever abilities I had brought to my tafk, with thofe I muft finally perform it. To deliberate
whenever I doubted, to enquire whenever I was ignorant, would have protracted the undertaking without
end, and, perhaps, without much improvement j for I did not find by my firft experiments, that what I
had not of my own was eafily to be obtained : I faw that one enquiry only gave occafion to another, that
book referred to book, that to fearch was not always to find, and to find was not always to be informed
and that thus to purfue perfection, was, like the firft inhabitants of Arcadia, to chafe the fun, which,
when they had reached the hill where he fcemed to reft, was ftill beheld at the fame diftance from them.
I then contraded my defign, determining to confide in myfelf, and no longer to folicit auxiliaries, which
produced more incumbrance than afTiftance by this I obtained at leaft one advantage, diat I fet limits to
my work, which would in time be ended, though not completed.
:

Defpondency has never fo far prevailed as to deprefs me to negligence fome faults will at laft appear
and perfevering aftivity. The nice and fubtle ramifications of
mind intent upon accuracy, and convinced of the necefllty of difMany of the diftinftions, which to common readers
entangling combinations, and fcparating fimilitudes.
appear ufelefs and idle, will be found real and important by men verfed in the fchool philofophy, without
which no dictionary can ever be accurately compiled, or fkilfully examined.
;

to be the effeds of anxious diligence
meanihg were not eafily avoided by a

Some fenfes however there are, which, though not the fame, are yet fo nearly allied, that they are
Moft men think indiftinftly, and therefore cannot fpeak-with exaftnefs and conoften confounded.
;

this uncertainty is not to be
fequently fome examples might be indifi^erently put to either fignification
imputed to me, who do not form, but regifter the language who do not teach men how they fliould
:

;

think, but relate how they have hitherto exprelTcd their thoughts.

The imperfeft fenfe of fome examples I lamented, but could not remedy, and hope they will be comfome Ihining
penfated by innumerable paffagfs fele£t':d with propriety, and preferred with exaftnefs
with fparks of imagination, and fome replete with treafures of wifdom.
-,

The orthography and etymology, though imperfed, are not imperfect for want of care, but becaufe
care will oot always be fucccfsful, and recolk^iwn of iftformation coine too late for ufe.

Thai

P

R

E

1*'

A.

C

E.

That many terms of art and manufafture are omitted, muft be frankly acknowledged ; bat for this
caverns to learn the miner's
language, nor take a voyage to perfcdl my (kill in the dialed of navigation, nor vifit the warehoufes
of merchants, and fhops of artificers, to gain the names of wares, tools and operations, of which no
mention is found in books ; what favourable accident, or eafy enquiry brought within my reach, has
not been neglcdled ; but it had been a hopclefs labour to glean up words, by courting living information, and contcfting with die fuUennefii of one, and the roughnefs of another.
dcfcil

I

may boldly allege that it was unavoidable:

I could not vifit

U

To

furnifli the academicians della Crujca with words of this kind, a feries of comedies called
Tiera, or the Fair, was j^rofcflcdly written by Buonaroti; but I had no fuch afliftant, and therefore
was content to want wiiat they muft have wanted likewife, had they not luckily been fo fupplied.

Nor are all words which are not found in the vocabular)-, to be lamented as omiflions.

Of the

laborious and mercantile part of* the people, the diflion is in a great meafure cafual and mutable ; many
of their terms are formed for fome temporary or local convenience, and though current at certain times
and places, are in others utterly unknown. This fugitive cant, which is always in a ftate of increafe cw
decay, cannot be regarded as any part of the durable materials of a language, and therefore muft be
differed to pcrifh with other things unworthy of prefervation.

Care -will fometimes betray to the appearance of negligence. He that is catching opportunities wliich
feldom occur, will fufFer thofe to pafe by unregarded, which he expefts hourly to return ; he that is fearching for rare and remote things, will negleft thofe that are obvious and familiar thus many of the moft
common and curfory words have been inferted with little illuftration, becaufe in gathering the authorities,
It is remarkI forbore to copy thofe which i thought likely to occur whenever they were wanted.
unexemplified.
Sea
found
the
word
colleftion,
reviewing
my
I
able that, in
:

ignorance, and in things eafy from
q{ greatnefs, and difdainful of littlenefs, haftily withdraws herfelf from
painful fearches, and pafles with fcornful rapidity over tafks not adequate to her powers, fometimes too
fecure for caution, and again too anxious for vigorous effort ; fometimes idle in a plain path, and fometimes diftraftcd in labyrinths, and diflipated by different intentions.

Thus it happens, that in things difficult there is danger from

confidence

;

the mind, afraid

A large work

is difficult becaufe it is large, even though all its parts might fingly be performed with
where there are many things to be done, each muft be allowed its (hare of time and labour,
in the proportion only which it bears to the whole ; nor can it be expecfted, that the ftones which form
the dome of a temple, (hould be fquared and polilbed like the diamond of a ring.

facility ;

Of the event of this work, for which, having laboured it with fo much application, I cannot but
have fome degree of parental fondnefs, it is natural to form conjedtures. Thofe who have been perfuaded to think well of my dcfign, will require that it (liould fix our language, and put a ftop to
thofe alterations which time and chance have hitherto been fuffered to make in it without oppofition.
"With

this confequence I will confefs that I

flattered myfelf for a while ;

but

now begin to fear that I

have indulged expectation which neither reafon nor experience can juftify. When we fee men grow old
»nd die at a certain time one after another, from century to ccn'^ury, we laugh at the elixir that promifcs
and with equal jultice may the lexicographer be derided, who
to prolong life to a thoufand years
being alile to produce no example of a nation that has preferved their words and phrafcs from mutability,
ihall imagine tlut his didionary can embalm his language, and fecure it from corruption and decay,
that it is m his power to change fublunary nature, and clear the world at once from folly, vanity, and
;

^ffeftation^

With this hope, however, academies have been inftituted, to guard the avenues of dieir languages,
but their vigilance and aftivity have iiitherto been vain
to retau» fugitives, and repulfe intruders
founds are too volatile and fubtile for legal reftraints to enchain fyllables, and to lafh the wind, are
equally the undertakings of pride, unwilling to meafure its'defires by its ftrc'ngch.
The French language
Jias vifibly changed under the infpedion of the academy; the ftyle of Jmelot's tranfiation of father Paul
and no Italian will maintain, that the didion of any
is obfcrved by Le Courayer to be un peu pajfe
modem writer is not perceptibly different from that of Boccacty Machiavel, or Caro.
-,

;

;

Total and fudden transformations of a language feldom happen conqucfts and migrations are now
very /are but there arc other caufcs of change, which, tliough flow in their operation, and invifi-ble in
;

.:

riieir

PRE FACE.
their progrefs, are perhaps as much Tuperiour to human refiftance, as the revolutions of the fky, or
Commerce, however neceflaiy, however lucrative, as it depraves the manners,
intumefcence of the tide.

corrupts the language j they that have frequent intercourfe with ftrangers, to whom they endeavour to
accommodate themfelves, muft in time learn a mingled dialedt, like the jargon which ferves the traffickers
on the Mediterranean and Indian coafts. This will not always be confined to the exchange, the warehoufe,

or tlie port, but wi'l be communicated by degrees to other ranks of the people, and be at laft incorporated
with the current fpeech.

The language mod likely to continue long
internal caufes equally forcible.
raifed
little,
and but a little, above barbarity, fecluded
would
that
of
a
nation
a
be
without alteration,
in
the
conveniencies
of life either without books, or,
and
totally
employed
procuring
from ftrangers,
few
countries,
with
very
men
thus
bufied
and unlearned, havuig only fucl>
'the
Mahometan
fike fome of
perhaps
requires,
would
long
continue
to
exprefs
the fame notions by the fame
common
ufe
words as
expefted
in
a
people
polifhed
by
arts,
and clafled by fubordination,
fuch
conftancy
can
be
no
But
figns.
and
accommodated
of the other. Thofe
is
fuftained
by
the
labour
of
the
community
one
part
where
be
enlarging
the
ftock
of
ideas;
and
every increafe of
leifure
think,
will
always
have
much
to
who
knowledge, whether real or fancied, will produce new words, or combinations of words. When the
mind is unchained from neceflity, it will range after convenience ; when it is left at large in the fields
of fpeculation, it will fhifc opinions as any cuftom is difufed, the words that exprefled it muft perifti witli
it i as any opinion grows popular, it will innovate fpeech in the fame proportion as it altera praftice.
There

are likewife

;

:

;

As by the cultivation of various fciences a language is amplified, it will be more furnifhed with*
words deflefted from their original fenfe ; the geometrician will talk of a courtier's zenith, or the
eccentrick virtue of a wild hero, and the phyfician of fanguine expedtations and phlegmatick delays.
Copioufnefs of fpeech will give opportunities to capricious choice, by which fome words will be preferred, and others degraded; vicifTitudes of fafhion will enforce the ufe of new, or extend the figrviftcatioa
of known terms. The tropes of poetry will make hourly encroachments, and the metaphorical will
become the current fenfe: pronunciation will be varied by levity or ignorance, and the pen muft
at length comply with the tongue ; illiterate writers will, at one time or other, by publick infatuation,
rife into renown, who, not knowing the original import of words, will ufe them with colloquial Ficentioufnefs, confound diftinftion, and forget propriety.
As politenefs increafes, fome cxpreffions will beconfidcred as too grofs and vulgar for the delicate, others as too formal and ceremonious for the gav
and airy; new phrafes are therefore adopted, which muft, for the fame rcafons, be in time difmifleJ.
Swift, in his petty treatife on the Eng/ijh language, allows that new words muft fometimes be introduced, but propofes that none fhould be fufFered to become obfolete.
But what makes a word obfolete,
more than general agreement to forbear it ? and how ftiall it be continued, when it conveys an ofFenfivcr
idea, or recalled again into the mouths of mankind, when it has once become unfamiliar by difufe, and
unpleafing by unfamiliarity ?
There is another caufe of alteration more prevalent than any other, which yet ia the prelent ftate of the
world cannot be obviated.
mixture of two languages will produce a third diftinft from both, and
they will always be mixed, where the chief part of education, and the moft confpicuous accompliftiment,
is (kill in ancient or in foreign tongues.
He that has long cultivated another language, will find its
words and combinations crowd upon his memory ; and hafte and negligence, refinement and affediation;,
will obtrude borrowed terms and exotick expre/Tions.

A

No

book was ever turned from one lanrgaage intoThe great peft of fpeech is frequency of tranflation.
another, without imparting fomething of its native idiom > this is the moft mifchievous and comprehenfive innovation ; fingle words may enter by thoufands, and the fabrick of the tongue continue the fame ;
but new phrafeology changes much at once ; it alters, not the fingle ftones of the building, but the order
if an academy fhould be eftablifhed for the cultivation of our ftyle, which I, who care
of the columns,
never wifh to fee dependance multiplied, hope the fpirit of Engiijb liberty will hinder or deftnoy, let them,
inftead of compiling grammars and didlionaries, endeavour, with all their influence, to flop the licence of
tranflators, whofe idlenefs and ignorance, if it be fuffered to proceed, will reduce us ta babble a diaJeit
of France.

If the changes that we fear be thus irrefiftible, what remains bat to acquiefce with filence, as in the other
infurmountable diftrefTes of humanity ? It remains that we retard what we cannot repel, that we palliate
what we cannot cure. Life may be lengthened by care, though death cannot be ultimately defeated?
.

.

5

t<>ngues*

PREFACE.
tongues, like governments, have a natural tendency to degeneration i
tution, let us make feme ftruggles for our language.

wc have long prefcrved our confti-

In hope of giving longevity to that which its own nature forbids to be immortal, I have devoted this
book, the labour of years, to the honour of my country, that we may po longer yield the palm of philology,
without a conteft, to the nations of the continent. The chief glory of every people arifes from its au•
thors : whether I fhall add any thin^ by my own writings to the reputation of Englijh literature, muft be
left to time : much of my life has been loft under the preflures of difeafe ; much has been trifled away ;
and much has always been fpent in provifion for the day that was paffing over me ; but I fliall not think
my employment ufelefs or ignoble, if by my afliftance foreign nations, and diftant ages, gain accefs to
the propagators of knowledge, and underftand the teachers of truth j if my labours afford light to die
repofitorics of fcience, and add celebrity to Bacon, to Hooker, to Milion, and to Btyle.
,

When I am animated by this wi(h, I look with pleafure on my book, however defeftive, and deliver
That it will immediately become
to the world with the fpirit of a man that has endeavoured welL
popular I have not promifed to myfelf a few wild blunders, and rifible abfurdities, from which no work
of fuch multiplicity was ever free, may for a time furnifh folly with laughter, and harden igrwrance in
contempt ; but ufeful diligence will at laft prevail, and there never can be wanting fome who diftinguilh
defert; who will confider that no didtionary of a living tongue ever can be perfecl, fince while it is haftcning to publication, fome words are budding, and fome falling away that a whole life cannot be fpent upon
fyntax and etymology, and that even a whole life would not be fufficient j that he, whofe dcfign includes
•whatever language can exprefs, muft often fpeak of what he does not underftand ; that a writer will
fometimes be hurried by eagcrnefs to the end, and foraetimes faint with wcarinefs under a talk, which
that what is obvious is not always known,
Scaliger compares to the labours of the anvil and the mine
and what is known is not always prefent ; tliat fudden fits of inadvertency will furprize vigilance, fligJTt
avocations will feduce attention, and cafual eclipfes of the mind will darken learning ; and that the writer
lliall often in vain trace his memory at the moment of need, for that which yefterday he knew with intuitive rcadinefs, and which will come uncalled into his thoughts to-morrow.
it

:

;

;

In this work, when it fliall be found that much is omitted, let it not be forgotten that much likewifc
performed ; and though no book was ever fpared out of tendcrnefs to the author, and the world is
little folicitous to know whence proceeded the faults of that which it condemns ; yet it may gratify curiofity to inform it, that the Englijh DiHionary was written with little affiftance of the learned, and without
any patronage of the great ; not in the foft obfcuriries of retirement, or under the flicker of academick
bowers, but amidft inconvenience and diftraftion, in ficknefs and in forro\y.
It may reprefs the triumph
of malignant criticifm to obferve, that if our language is not here fully difplayed, I have only failed in an
If the lexicons of ancient tongues, now imattempt which no human powers have hitherto completed.
mutably fixed, axid comprized in a few volumes, be yet, after the toil of fucceffive ages, inadequate and
if the aggregated knowledge, and co-operating diligence of the Italian academicians, did not
delufive
fecure them from the cenfu.'-e of Beni ^ if the embodied criticks of France-, when fifty years had been
fpent upon their work, were obliged to change its ceconomy, and give their fecond edition another form,
I may furcly be contented without the pr?tifc of perfection, which, if I could obtain, in this gloom of folitude, what would it avail me? I have jirotrafted my work till moft of thofe whom I wiScd to pleafc
have funk into the grave, and fuccefs and mifcarriage are empty founds ; I therdbre Jifmifs it with frigid
tranquillity, having little to fear or hope fcom cenfure or from praifc.
IS

;

THE

/

THE

HISTORY
OF THE

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
THOUGH
firft

ihe Britains

or Weljh were the

Of the Cothick, the only monument remaining

whofe names

copy of the gofpels fomewhat mutilated, which,
from the filver with which the charaders are adorn-

pofleflbrs of this ifland,

are recorded, and are therefore in civil hif-

is a

now preferved at

tory always confidered as the predeceflbrs of the

ed, is called the^Iver bock.

prelent inhabitants; yet the dedu6lion of the Eng-

Upfal, and having been twice publiihed before, has

language, from the earlieft times of which we
have any knowledge to its prefent Hate, requires
no mention of them: for we have fo few words
which can, with any probability, be referred to Britijh roots, that we juftly regard the Saxom and fVe'Jh
as nations totally diftindl. It has been conjedlured,
lijh

that when the Saxons feized this country, they fuf-

fered the Britains to live among them in a ftate of

employed in the culture of the ground,
and other laborious and ignoble fervices. But it is
fcarctly poffible, that a nation, however depreflcd,
fhould have been mixed with another in confidcrable numbers without fome communication of their
tongue, and therefore, it may, with great reafon, be
imagined, that thofe, who were not fheltered in the
mountains, pcriihed by the fword.
The whole fabrick and fcheme of the Englifl}
language is Golhick or Teutonick : it is a dialeft of
that tongue, which prevails over all the northern
countries of Europe^ except thofe where the Sclavonian is fpokcn.
Of thefe languages Dr. Hickes
vaflalage,

has thus exhibited the genealogy.

is

been lately reprinted at Oxford, under the infpecMr. Lye, the editor of Junius. Whether
the didtion of this venerable manufcript be purely
Gothick, has been doubted j it feems however to
exhibit the moft ancient dialed now to be found of
the Teutonick race ; and the Saxon, which is the
original of the prefent Englijh, was either derived
from it, or both have defcended from fome comtion of

mon parent.
What was the form of the Saxon language, when,
about the year 450, they firft entered Britain, canThey feem to have been a
not now be known.
people without learning, and very probably without an alphabet ; their fpeech, therefore, having
been always curfory and extemporaneous, muft
have been artlefs and unconnefted, without any
modes of tranfition or involution of claufes; which
abruptnefs and inconnedion may be obferved even
in their later writings.
This barbarity may be
fuppofed to have continued during their wars with
the Britains, which for a time left them no leifurc
for fofter ftudics; nor is there any reafon for fuppofing it abated,

G O T H I C K,

It

till

the year 570, whei) Augujline

came from Rome to convert them to Chriftianity.

The Chriftian religion always implies or produces
Anglo-Saxon,

Francick,

CiMBRICK,
'

Dutch

German.

"
»

Idandick,

certain degree of civility and learning; they
then became by degrees acquainted with the Roman language, and ib gained, from time to time,
a

Frifick,

Norwegian,

tnglifh,

Swedifli,

fome knowledge and elegance, till in three centuries they had formed a language capable of ex-

Danifli.

prefling all the fentimcnts of a civilifcd people, as

Vol. I.

c

appears

THE HISTORY OF THE
CAP.

appears by k'ng Alfreds paraphrafe or imitation of
Bcethius, and his Ihort preface, which I have fe-

^^ ^^^^ ^
,

'

L

/-\N «a;pe ribe fe Doran op 8iSSiu mrrj^e
^-^ pi)7 Komana jiice jepin upahoron. •] mi]?
heopa cynin^um. Rxbjora ant) eallepica pxjioii

Romane bupij abparcon. anb eall Iralia
jiice jJ ip berpux )7am munrum •] Sici'ia ^am
ealonT5e m anpaib jepehron. -^ fa je^rep Jam
popepppecenan cyninjum Deot)pic peiij ro f am
harne.

Deobpic pa.-p Amulmja. he pasp
Epipren. feah he on f am Appianipcan jetjpolan

ilcan pice, j-e

Suphpunot>e.

,^.

^^ ^^^^^

I.

>cx

coplice puntie, ac ic nu pepenfce ^ 5ij-cierit?e op
T;cnat»rii pont>a mirpo. me ablentsan bar unxerj^j

j^^.^

,j,^_

ppa •* hi morran heopi ealt)pihra pypbe
Ac he ba xehar ppiSe ypele selspre.
beon.
ppabe Teenl>ot)e mib mancTum mane,
ppiSe
^
•« pir ro eacan ofpum unapimet)um yplum. f he
lohannep bone papan her opplean. Da y.vy pum
Boeriup y^y
conpul. -p pe heperoha haraf
haren. re yxr in boccpreprum -j on popult)
bcapumpepihrpirepra. 8e Sa onrear f a manijpealmn ypel fe re cynin3 Deojpic pif f am
fcpiprenantjome ^ pif fam Romanipcum piriim
tjyoe. he b a •remunt5e «apa ef neppa -j f apa e.ilrcine.

.

DpihraSehiunr)epSamEarepumhaspt>onheopa
Da onran he pmeajan -] leopni-

ealT>hlapopt5Lim.

ran on him j-elpum hu he j5pice 'Sam unpihrpipan
•] on pyhr ^eleappulpa anb on pihrpippa anpaib jebpmjan. 8ent5e
cy-niHTe apeppan mihre.

fam Eapepe ro
tonpranrinopohm. fsp ip Upeca heah bupj ^
heopa cyneprol. pop fam pe Daj-epe psep heopa
ealbhlapopt) cynnep. ba^bon hine f.-er he him ro
heopa Epiprent)ome ] ro heopa ealopihrum jepulrumebe. Da -f onrear pe paslhpeopa cyninj
Deobpic. «a hjer he hine jebpinjanon capcepne
] frp mne belucan. Da lur 6a jelomp -p je
appypSa psep on ppa m'celpe neapaneppe becom. fa yxr he ppa micle ppi6op on hip COot)e
rebpepeb. ppa hip CDo» xp. ppi6on ro f im
popult) pa f um unjepot) pa:p. -] he 6a nanpe
ppoppe be innan fam capcepne ne jemunbe. ac
he jepeoll nipol op t>une on fa plop. •] hine
aprpehre ppife unpor. anb opmob hine pelpne
pon^an pepan ^ fup pingenbe cpef

^

^^ 1,^ ponleran^-pa

hi,„^ne on |7i)^ Dinime hoi.
Bx bepeapoCon
j^i^ene luprba-nnerre pa Sa ic hun a-pne berrr
^p^pp^e. Ba pentjon hi me heopa bxc ro anD me
^^,^ ^^„^^ p^omjepiran.
To phon pceolmi la
pnient) reTTan bsr ic Terjch-r men pa:ne.

j^,^^^

,,^ ,^^

5,^^,^ xepiEhr re

Se on 6am Teralbum

^uphpuman
ne mor:*
.

pe ^eher Romanum hir ppeont>-

fa biTelhce spenbreppiru ro

^^^^

lurr'jcnlice ronr.
^^ heopienoe j-in^in. ] mit) j-pi ur^cpat)um pojitJum jcferran. |)cah ic jeo npilum je-

Icdtcd as the firft fpecimcn of ancient EngUJb.

C A P.

II.

CAP.
DA ic fa
,

^
Sip leoj?.
,

,

HI.

\cr^

cpa^SBoerIlIp.3eomplent)e

apun^en hreptse. «a com ?iajp jan in ro me heoF^^cunt) pipt)om. •] -p min miipnentse COot) mit>
hippopbum jejperre. T flip cpasf
^u ne eapr
.

f " f^ »""" )'* "" "i'"r& F^le pa?pe apet)

•]

^e-

Ac hponon pupt)efu mm fippum popult>
FPS""! f^r TP'l'e jeppencet). buron ic par f
lappet).

f u hteppr Sapa pxpna ro hpaf e pop^iren 6e ic
fe aep pealne. Da clipot)e pe pipt)om •] cpsf.
Depiraf nu apipjet^e popult) popja op minep
f^S^nep C0ot5e. popfam Te pinb fa maspraa
pceafan. Ljeraf hme epr hpeoppan ro mmiim
iapum. Da eot)e pe pij-tjom neap, cpref Boeriup.
minum hpeoppienTJan jefohre. •] hir ppa mopolil

^ip^'^ hpeja upapst)e.
at)pi3be fa minenep
COot)ep eajan. ant) hir ppan bhf urn popuim.
hpsfep hir oncneope hip poprepmotjop. mit>
^am fe Sa f COob pif bepent>e. 6a ^ecneop hir
rP'?^ ppeorele hip ajne mot)op. -p pasp pe pip^^m fe •'r^ ^anje asp rybe ] la^poe. ac hir on^ear hip lape ppife roropenne •] ppif e robpocenne mit) tjypijpa honbum. ] hine fa ppan hu
f jepupbe. Da ant)ppypt)e pe pipbom him 7
pa:be. •^ hip jmjpan htepbon hine ppa roropenne.
P^P- fa^J^ hi reohhot)on f hi hine eallne habban
pceotoon. ac hi 3e3at5epu6 monipealb toypij on

]p^'?^ poprp'upunja.

-j on fam jilpe buran heopa
hpelc epr ro hype bore jecippe:-

-phis' may perhaps be confidered as a fpecimen
of the Saxcn in its higheft ftatc of purity, for here
are fcarcciy any words borrowed from the Roman

dialeds.

Of

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Of the follov/ing verfion of the gofpels the age
not certainly known, but it was probably written between the time of /IlfreJ and that of the Norman conqueft, and therefore may properly be inis

ferted here.

Tranflations fcldom afford juft fpecimehs of a
language, and ieaft of all thofe in which a fcrupulous and verbal interpretation is endeavoured, becaufe they retain the phrafeology and ftrufture of

the original tongue; yet they have often this con-

venience, that the fame book, being tranflated in
different ages, affords opportunity of marking the

gradations of change, and bringing one age into
comparifon with another. For this purpofe I have
placed the Saxon verfion and that of Wickliffe, written about the year 1380, in oppofite columns, becaufe the convenience of eafy collation feems greater

than that of regular chronology.

LUK, Chap. L

L UC^, Cap. I.
TJ^

ORD^QD pe: pirot)lice maneji Jjohron jjapa
jiiinja

jiace 5e-ent)eby_pt>an pe:

on uy ^epyl-

]et)e f ynt:.

'

2

Spa uy bershrun pz Se hir

3

OOe j;e]7uhre

oj? pfiymSe
Tcppon. aiib jjtjie j'pjiarce j^enaj- prejion.

[o_p-pylijt)e

pjiom pjauma]

jeojiniice eallum. [miS] enoebyptinej'j'e pjiiran

pu 'Se j'eluj'ra Theophilup
]ju oncnape f»apa popt)a yo'SfXfTn&jje.
D.er
4

fee.

op ):'am 'Se j?u jel^ejiet) eapr:5 On ^ejiooep Oajum lutJea cynmcjej-. pjep
piim pacejit) on naman Zachajiiap op Sbian rune.
3 hip pip psep op Sajionep Oohrjium. ant) hype
nama pa?p Glizaberh:6 SoSiice hij pasjxon buru pihtrpipe bepojaan
Ifu'De. j.injentie on eallum hip bebot>um ] jiihrpipneppuni buran pjiohre:7 Ant5 hij nEejOon nan beapn. pojifjam ^e

eiizaberh p{ep unbej\ent)e.

•]

hy on hyjia Oagum

"IN the dayes of Eroude kyng of Judee ther was a
* preft Zacarye by name of the fort of Abia, and
his wyf was of the doughtris of Aaron
and hir
name was Elizabeth.
:

:

2

An bothe weren jufte bifore God

alle the maundementis

goynge in
:
and juftifyingis of the Lord

withouten playnt.

3 And thei hadden no child, for Elizabeth was
bareyn and bothe weren of greet age in her dayes.

buru jojiSeotJun:8 SoSlice p3ep jepojiben pa. Zachapiap hyp pacept);iatiep bpeacon hip jeppixlepentiebyjiDneppe

bepopan Eot)e.
9 iEprep jeponan ptey paceptihaioep hlorep.
he eot)e f he hip opppunje perre, Sa he on
Cot5ep rempel eobe.
ID Gall pepot) pxy polcep pasp ure 3ebit)t)ent)e
on Jjjepeopppunjenman:1
Da asryptie him Dpihrnep enjel prant)ent>e
on pxy peopobep ppiSpan healpe.

4 And it bifel that whanne Zacarye fchould do
the office of prcfthod in the ordir of his courfe to
fore God.

5 Aftir the cuftom of the prefthod, he wente
forth by lot and entride into the temple to encenfen.

6 And at the multitude of the puple was without forth and preyede in the our of encenfying.
7 And an aungel of the Lord appcride to him:
and flood on the right half of the auter of encenfe.

12

Di peapt) Zachapiap

jetspepet)

f S^f^'
him ere onhpeap:Da cpa;S pe enjel him ro. Ne onttpret) pu
1
Se Zachapiap. popj;am Jjin ben ip jehypet). ]
j;in pip eiizaberh pe: punu cen^. ant) ]ju nempr
hyp naman lohannep.
14 ] he byS pc ro jepean ] ro blippe. •]
maneja on hyp acennebneppe jepajniaS:15 SuSIice he byS m.tpe bepopan Dpihrne.
anb he ne topincSpin ne beop. •] lie biS -s^epyllet)
on halijum Dapre. );onne jyr op hip motiop inont5e.

~]

8
fcl

And Zacarye feynge was afrayed

:

and dredc

upon him.

9 And the aungel fayde to him, Zacarye drede
thou not: for thy preier is herd, and Elizabeth
thi wif fchal here to thee a fone: and his name fchal
be clepid Jon.
10 And joye and gladyng fchal be to thee: and
manye fchulen have joye in his natyvyte.
For he fchal be great bifore the Lord
and
1
he fchal not drinke wyn ne fydyr, and he fchal be
fulfild with the holy goft yit of his modir wombe.
:

r.oSe.
1
Snb maneja Ippahela beapna he jecypS ro
Dpihrne iiypa Dobc.

6

17

Snb

12 And he fchal converte manye of the children
of Ifrael to her Lord God.

13

And

THE HISTORY OF THE
hype nehchebupaj- •} hyjie cu^an f jehyptxjn. -p Dpihren hij^ nult>-heoprne)-)-e nut)
hype m.TppJt)e -j hij mit) hype blij-)roDon:59 Di <'n bam ehreo^an tjsje 1115 comon j)

54 And the neyghbouris and cofyns of hir
herdcn that the Lord hadde magnyfied his mercy
with hir, and ihci thankiden him.
55 And it was doon in the eightithe day tl>ei

jrrcCep

camen to circunifide the child, .nrd thei clepiden
him Zacarye by the name of his fad:r.
56 And his modir anfweridc and fcide, nay,

58

ciIt>

-]

yir.bj-nifean. ant)

ncmt>on

hir.e

naman Zachapiam:60 Da ant5ppapot>e hi)' mot)op.

hij-

Ne y& yo'Sty.

ac he bib lohanner jenemnet):Nijr nan on j:inpe
61 Da cpstx)n.hi ro hype.

ma j^e |-yppum naman jenemnet):6a

Da bicnobon

hi

ro

hif pttiep.

hysfc he

poIt>e hyne jenemneDne beon:-

63 pa ppar he5ebet)enum pex-bpebe. lohan6a punOpoCon hij ealle:64 Da peapS fona hiif muS ] hij" runje jeopenoo. •] he ]-ppasc. Dpihren blerpjenoe:65 Di. peap'^ eje 5epopt)en opep ealle hypa
nehchebupaj". ant) opep ealle Iut>ea munr-lant>
nejr hiy nama.

p.Epon y^Y poptJ 5epib;ii£eppot)e.
66 ] ealle pa be hir jehyptx>n. on hypa heopran j-errun ] cprebon. penp: Su hpsr byS jjejf
cnapa. pirot)lice Dpihrnej" hant) pasp mit) him:67 Ant) Zachapiap hiy )::ast)ep pasp mit> halejum tjapre jepyllet). •] be pirejotJe anb cyse.'S.
68 Deb!erj-ut) py Dpihren Ippahela Got), pop])jm ]:ehe jeneopuCe. "3 hip polcep alypetjneppe

but he fchal be clepid Jon.

57 And thci fciden to hir, for no man is in tht
kyndrede that is dtpid this name.
58 And thei bikcnydcn to his fadir, what he
wolde that he were clepid.
59 And heaxinge a poyntel wroot feyinge, Jon
is his name, and allc men wondridcn.
60 And annoon his mouth was openyd and his
tunge, and he fpak and blcffide God.
61 And drede was maad on all hir neighbouris,
and all the wordis wercn puplifchid on aile the
mounteynes of Judee.
62 And alle men that hcrden puttiden in her
herte, and feiden what manner child fchal this be,
for the bond of the Lord was with him.
63 And Zacarye his fadir was fulfiUid with the
holy Goft, and profcciede and feide.
64 Bleffid be the Lord God of Ifrael, for he has
vifitid and maad redempcioun of his puple.

tjytje.

6g Snt) he up hcele hopn apxpbe on Dauit»ep
hope hip cnihrep,
70 Spa he pppsEC ])uph hip halejpa pirejena
muS. |Ja Se op poplt)ep ppym Se ppprecon.
71 •] he alypCe up op iipum peont)um. anb op
ealpa Jjapa hant)a ^e up harebon,
yi COilt)-heoprneppe ro pypcenne mit) upum
paetjepum. ] Temunan hip halejan cy'Sneppe.
73 ^yne uy ro pyllenne jjone aS jje he upum
pa;t)ep Sbpahame fpop.
74 D.Er pe buraii eje. op upe peonDa hant)a

alypebe. him )?eopian

75 On halijneppe bepopan him eallum upum
toajum:-

•

76 SnT) pu cnapa bipt: J)acp hehpran pireja
jenemneb. J?u jaepr bepopan Dpihrnep anpyne.
77

'1

o pyllene hip

poke haele jepic on hypa

pynna popTypneppe.
78 Duph inno^ap upep Eot)ep milt)-heoprneppe. on Jjam he up jeneoputje op eaprbasle

up-pypinjenoe.
79 Onlyhran J>am p& on )yprpiim "} on tieaSep
pceabe pirraS. upe per ro jepeccenne on pibbe

80 Soolice pe cnapa peox.
pasp on japre
jeprpanjot). -] p«p on peprenum 00 jjone X)x-^
hyp ierypeOneppum on Ippahel:6
•;]

6g

And he has rered to us an horn of helthe in

the hous of Dauith his child.

66 As he fpak by the mouth of hife holy pro*
phetis that weren fro the world.

67 Helth fro oure enemyes, and fro the hond of
men that hatiden us.
68 To do merfy with oure fadris, and to have
mynde of his holy teftament.
69 The grete ooth that he fwoor to Abraham our

alle

fadir,

70 To geve himfelf to us, that we without
drede delyvered fro the hond of our enemyes ferve
to him,
71 In holynefTe and rightwifncfle before him,
in alle our dayes.
72 And thou child fchalt be clepid the profete of
the highede, for thou fchalt go before the face of
the Lord to make redy hife weycs.
73 To geve fcicncc of heelth to his puple into
remiffioun of her fynncs.
74 By the inwardenefs of the merfy of oure God,
in the which he fpringyng up fro on high hath
vifued us.
75 To g^v^ ^'ght to them that fitten in darkreffis, and in fchadowe of dceth, to drefTe our feet
into the weye of pecsj
76 And the child wexide, and was confortid in
fpiryt, and was in dcfert placis till to the day of his
fthcwing to Yfrael.

Of

•

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Of the Siixoft poetry fome fpecimen is neceflary,
though our ignorance of the laws of their metre and
the quantities of their fyllables, which it would be

I

very dillicult, perhaps impoflible, to recover^ excludes us from that pleakire which the old bards
undoubtedly gave to their contemporaries.
The firfl: poetry of the Saxons was without rhyme,
anJ confcqoently muil have depended upon the
quantity of their fyllables ; but they began in time
to imitate their neighbours, and clofe their verfes
with correfpondent founds.

The two paflages, whicli I have felcfted, contain
apparently the rudiments of our prefent lyrick meafures,

and the writers may be juftly confidered as

the genuine anceftors of the Englijh poets.

^e mai him fojte at)jiet)en,
Da^r he Sanne ojre bitit)e ne mujen^
Uoji -^ bihmpeS dome.
^s; If pi]" f bir ant> bore

Ant) ber biuojien bome.
DeaS com on Sij- mitielajit)
DujaS 'Sxy Oeplej" ont>e,
"RnXi j*enne ant» foj^e ant) ij'pinc.

On J"e ant) on lont)e.
Ic am eltiep.

Sanne

ic

pe|",

A pinrjie ] ec a lope.
Ic ealtii mope Sanne ic t)et)e,

GcSe ant) all unhel'Se.
£5uph t)eS com on ^ip mit)elapt),
Hnt) oSep unipelSe.
Ne mai non hepre hir ijjenche,
Ne no runje relle.
pu muchele pinum ant) hu uele,
BieS inne helle.
Louie Dot) mit) upe hiepre.
!Snt) mit) all upe mihre.
!Snt) upe emcpiprene ppo up pelp,
8po up lepeS t)pihre.
8ume Sep habbeS leppe mepjSe,
Snt) pume Sep habbeS mope,
ech eprep San -^ he t)et)e,
eprep -^ he ppanc pope.

pir ojlire ro bi mope.
8e ^ hine )-elue uopjer,
Uop piue oj:ep uop chilt»e.

Ne pel Sep bi bpet) ne pin,
Ne oj;ep kennep epre.

J)e ]-al comen on euele jretie*
Bure jot) him bi milt)e.

Dot) one pel bi echep lip,
Snt) blipce ant) eche pepre.

Ne hopie pip ro hipe Yt\ity
Ne pepe ro hip piue.

Ne pal Sap bi pcere ne pcputs,
Ne poplfcep pele none.

ODi

Bi pop him pelue eupich man,
Daep pile he bieS aliue.
'

pe ip buuen up ant) bineSen,
Biuopen ant) ec bihint).
8e man •f jotiep pille t)eS,
pie mai hine aihpap uint)e.
eche pune he ihep'S,
Snt) por eche tietje.
pe Suph pixS echep iSanc,
lUai hpar pel up ro ]\.€o&.
8e man neupe nele t)on T;ot),
Ne neupe jot) lip let)en.
Gp t)eS •] t)om come ro hip t)upe,
pe mai him pope at)pet)en.
punjep ] Suppr here •] chele,

Gupich man mit) j5 he haueS,
bejjen heuepiche.
Se Se leppe ~] pe oe mope,
ClDai

^epe aitiep iliche.
^euene ant) epSe he oueppie^,
^ip ejhen biS pulbpihr.
Sunne ~] mone ] alle preppen,
BieS Sieprpe on hip lihre.

^e por hper SencheS ant) hper DoJ>,
Alle quike pihre.
Nip no louepT) ppich ip xipr,
Ne no kinj ppich ip t)pihre.

^euene -] epSe -j all Sar ip,

"Kc pi mepjjje •^ men up bihar,

"KW pall ben jot) one.
Ne mai no mepjj^e bi ppo muchel,
8po ip jotjep ipihSe.
pi ip poj) pune ant) bpihr,
Hnt» t)ai Dure nihre.
E)s:\i ip pele bure pane,

pepre buren ippinche.
8e f mai ant) nele Set)ep come,
Sope hir pel uopSenche,
Dep ip blipce buren rpeje,
"Knt) lip buren t)eaSe.
Der eupe pullen punie Sep,
7?nt)

BliSe hi bie]) ant) eaSe.
Dep ip jeujej^e buren eltie,

Biloken ip on hip hont)e.

!Snt) elt)e buren unheljje.

^e t)eS ai f hip pille ip.
On pea ant) ec on lonCe.
^e ip opt) alburen opt)e,

Ne non unipelSe.
Dep me pel t)pihren ipen,

Nip Sep popje ne pop non,

pe one ip eupe on eche pret)e,

8po ape he ip mit) ipippe.
pe one mai ant) pel al bien,

Ulent>e pep Su pentJe.

Giijlep ant) mannep blipce.

T^nt) ent)e alburen eiit)e.

*

To

*rHE

HISTORY OF THE
pnakep ] pibep pscpon mne. ] bpapen heom
8umc hi t)it)en in cpucer hup. ^ ip in an
ppj.
cepre jJ pap pcopr •] napeu. •] un t)ep. •] t)it>e
pcfeppe rranep fiep inne. •] ppenjt)e J)e man \>x^

To ^ape blij-ce oj* bpinj 30T),
Per pixett buren ence.

•3

Danrie he upe piula unbinr,
Ojr lichamlice bent>.
Cpipr jeue uf lel)e fpich lijr,
-

Snt) habbe j-pichiie ent)e.
)cr pe moren Sit5ep cumeii,

Danne pe hennej* pentje.

About the year 1 150, the S.-ixoh began to take a
form in which the beginning of the prefent Englijh

may be plainly difcovcrcd ; this cliange I'eems not to
have been the cffcdl of the Norman conqucft, for
very few French words are found to have been introduced in the firft hundred years after it; the
language mud therefore have been altered by caufes
like thofe which, nottwithltanding the care of writers
and focieties InQituted to obv'ute them, are even
now daily making innovations in every living language.
a fpecimen of the lanI have exhibited
guage of this age from the year 1 1 35 to 1 140 of the
Saxon chronicle, of which the latter part was apparcritly written near the time to which it relates.

Dip jsepe pop Jtc kmj 8rephne opep pjc ro
Nopmant)!. ~\ Jjcp pep unt^ep-pan^en. popSi -f
he pciiltx ben alpuic aipe jje com y^Y'
ac he ro t5elt)
-\
ir -] pcarepet) poriicc.
ODicel hat)t>e ^cnpi kinj
jatsenet) 30IT) -j pyluep. ant) na jot? ne t>it)e me
pop hir paule );ap op. Da be kmj Srephne ro
enjIa-IanO com \>a macot) lie hip jabepinj asr
Oxene-popt). 1 bap he nam be bipcop Rojep op
8epcp-bepi. ] SlexanTsep oipcop op Lincoln.
"] re
Hancelep Rojep hipe neuep. •] t)it»s lelie
in ppipun. ril hi japen up hepe caprlep.
Da jje
puikep unt5ep5£eron jJ he miltx man j^ap •] popre
"3 jot). -} na jupcipe ne t)it)e. j^a t)it)en
hi alle
hi pent)en

-^

pop he hat)t»e jer hip rjiepop.

pi hat)ben

punt)ep.

him manpet) maket>

ant)

a^p puopen. ac hi nan rpeuSc ne heolt)en. alle
pspon pop ppopen. •] hepe rpeoSep poplopcn. pop ffupic pice man hip caprlep makete
he

antj ajaioep him heolticn. ant) pylDen j^e lant) pull

op caj-rU-p. ^1 puencren pui^c )?e ppccce men
lant) mit) caprcl-peopcep. j^a ))e caprltp
op
I?'*

papen makit). \i j:ylt)en hi mit) t)eou'ep ant)yuele
mtn. Da namen hi J^a men J7e hi pentitn ^ am
jot) he):t)en.

ba& be r.ihrep ?.nt) be t).Tipp.

capl-

m n ] pimmen. ant) t)it);n hcom in jpipun eprep
jolt)

ant)

pyluep.

-]

pmcb heom

un-rellcnt5!ice

pop n

p!Fpen nasupe nan maprypp ppa
pinct) alpi- hi ptcpon.
COe henjet) up bi |)c per
ant) pmoket) hcom mit) pul pmoke.
me henjet)
"bi j)t- jjumbrp. o^ep bijie hcpet). -]
cnjen bpynijep
pininj.

on hep per. OQe bitie cnorret) prpen ji p aburon
hepe iisuet). -j uupySen ro j5 ir TEt)e ro j?
hxpnep. pi t)it)cn heom in quaprejxnc pap natipep

In mam op j)e
inne. jJ ni bp^^con alle ^t limep.
caprk-p pa?pon lop -j jpT. -JJ ps.pon pachenrejep'
hatiben onoh ro bjepon
jj rpa o^ep J)pe men
onne. -f pap ppa macet) j5 ip pjeprnet) ro an
beom. •] t)it)en an pcjepp ipen aburon }pi mannep
l^pore ] hip halp. -jJ he ne mihre nopit)eppapt)ep
ne pirren. ne lien, ne plepen. oc bjepon at jJ ipen.
COani ])upen hi bpapen mit) hunja?p. J ne canne.
•] ne mai rellen alle j)e puntiep,
ne alle fe pinep -f
hi t)it)en ppecce men on hip lant). •] ;p lapretoe |:'a

pmrpe pile Srephne pap kinj. -\ asupe ir pap
pi lasit)enj^iit)ep on j^e
uueppe ant) uueppe.
runep jeupeu pile. -] clepetjen ir renpepie. pa
|)e ppecce men ne hat)t)en nan mopero jiuen. |ja
p£uet)en hi ant) bpent)on alle ]?€ runep. -f pel pu
mihrep papen all aoaeip pape pcult)ej-r j^u neupe
pint)en man in rune pirrentje. ne lant) rilet). Da
pap copn baspe. *] plec. ~\ ctepe. ] burepe pop
XIX.

nan ne pjep o |)e lant). Ujpecce men prupuen op
hunjsep. pume jcben on aelmep pe papen pum
pile pice men. pum plujen ur op lantie.
lUep
nasupe jasr mape ppeccehet) on lant). ne nasupe
he'^en men peppe ne t)it)en pan hi t)it)en. pop
ouep piSon ne pop-bapen hi nouSep cipce. ne
cypce-ijept). oc nam al |?e jot> f j^ap inne pap.
~] bpentJcn pySen |7e cypce •] alrejst)epe.
Ne hi
ne pop-bapen bipcopep lant). ne abborep. ne
ppeoprep. ac pasueben munecep. -3 clepckep. ]
afupic man

o^ep |7e ouep myhre. Dip rpa men
oSep jjpe coman piticnt) ro an run. al jje runpcipe piujain pop heom. penben -f hi prepon
psuepcp. De bipcopep -] lepet) meh heom cupiftT>c a;upe. oc pap heom nahr j^ap op. pop hi
pa?pon all pop-cupj-set) -3 pop-puopen -3 pojiiopen.
map pjE me rilct)e. J)e epSe ne bap nan copn. pop
]je

lant)

pap

all

popbon mit» puilce t)aEt)ep.

-3

hi

Lpij-r p!ep. -3 hip halechen. 8uilc
-f
•3 mape Jeanne pe
cunnen pajin. pe ]iolent)en xix.
pinrpe pop upe pinnep. On al pip yucle rime
hcolt) ClDaprm abbor hip abborpice xx. pinrep
3 halp Jsp. T VIII. t)aE'ip. mit) micel puinc. -3
pant) |-e munekep. -3 re jej-rep al ^ heom behouet).
•3 heolb mycel capireb in rhe hup.
ant) |7oS pe£epe ppohre on |ie cipce -3 perre j?ap ro lanbep -3
penrtp. -3 jottt) ir puy^c ant) Isr ir pepen. ant)
bpohre htom inro ]:e neps mynprpe on p. Pcrpep
niaype-t)a:i mib micel puprpcipe.
f pap anno ab
incapnarione Dom. mcxl. a combuprione loci
XXIII.
Knt) he pop ro Rome -3 ]i)^^ pa?p pasl
unt)ep-p.in5fn ppam |7e Pape Gujenie. -3 bejjer
rbape ppiuilejiep. an op alle \>c lanticp op pabborpice. -3 an oSep op ])e lanSep ])e lien ro \>t cipcepican. -3 jip he lenj mopre liuen. aIpe he minr
pnEt)en openlice

CO

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
m

j'pac pib Robbejit eojil ^ pib f»empejMce anb|-pofi

men heptien mit) yvjien-^pe. op
U3il!elm CDalOuir pe heolo Rojinjham |;fe caprel
he pan Eorinjham •] ej^run. -^ op pujo op Ulalr-

heom aSaj-'iphe neujiema mib rekinjhij" bjio^eji
"]
ciijipbe alle fe men fe mib hitn
heolben. anb psbe heom -p he polbe ifuen heom
up tUin-ceprji.. } bibe heom cumen |7ibe]i. Da
hi |7asp inne pa^jxen |7a com f»e kinjep cuen .^ i
hijie prpenjSe ^ bepsc heom, -p pep. y^ey inne
micel hunjjep. Da hi ne lenj ne muhren jjolen. j^a
prali hi ur ~\ plu jen. •] hi piipSen pip piSuren "]
polecheben heom. anb namtn RotDbepr eopi op
DIou-ceprpe ant) lebben him ro Roue-ceprpe. ant>

ro T)on op f>e hojibeji-pycan,
lantjer

"Knt) he bejjcr

jtice

-p

Sranepij. •] lx. pof.
Snti he maket)e n anie
] maket>; manie
piniasjit).
planrct5e
munekep. -}
|7e
berejie
pent5e
run
fian it asp pasp.
-]
peojikep.
uile

he pan ^f^iTlw^i).

op Stoepinjle £ek

-3

jasji.

anb p tp jot) munec •] joT) man. ] popSi hi luuetien
Cot) anb TOiDe men. Nu pe pillen psejen pum tjel
par belamp on Srephne kinjep rime. On hip
rime f»e Jut>eup op Nop-pic bohron an Epipren
ciltJ bepopen Sprpen. ant> pinet)en him alle pe
ilce pininT -f upe Dpihrin pap pinet). ant) on lanjppit)aei him on potie henjen pop upe Dpihrnep
ir
liUent)en
luue. ] py^sn bypiet)en him.
-f
pcutee btn pop holen. oc upe Dpihrin arypet)e
•p he pap hall mapryp. ~\ ro munekep him namen.
•]
bebypiet) him hejiicc. in Se mynprpe. ] he
maker |7up upe Dpihrin punt)eplice ant) mampaelt)!ice mipaciep. ] harre he p. Ulillelm:On |3ip jafp com Dauit) kinj op Scorlant) mit)
opmere parpt) ro piy lant) polDe pinnan piy lanti." •]
him com rojEeneplUillelmeoplopSlbamapljekinj
at)t)eberehr 6uop-pic. ] ro oScp a^uez men mit»
pasu men -] puhren pit) heom. •] plemt)en pe king a;r
re prant)apt». ] plojen pG^e micel op hip jenje:Un f»ip jjep poloe pe kinj Srephne raecen Rot)bepreoplop Dlouceprpe. jjekinjeppune^enpiep.
Da cprep hi
ac he ne mihre pop he papr ir pap.
pe lenjren jjeprepebe pe punne •] re tsrei aburon
nonrit) oejep. pi men eren "p

me lihret)e canblep

ro a.'ren bi. ~] -p pap xiii. kr. Appil. paspon men
I'uiSe oppuntipet). Dejx eprep popt)-peopt)e Ujilelm ^pce-bipcop op Eanrpap-bypij. -j re king
maket)e Teobalt) ^ffipce-bipcop, l^epap abbor in Jje
Bee. Dej\ eprep psx puiSe micel uueppe beruyx
J^e kinj -j Ranbolp eopl op Useprpe nohr popSi
•p he ne jap him a! -p he cuSe axen him. alpe he
tiitx; alle oSpe.ocjeppe femape lap heom J?e psppe

polbe halben.

m ppipun. anb re empepice pleh
inro an mynprpe. Da peopt)en Sa pipe men berpyx. pe kinjep ppeonb ~] re eoplep ppeonb. ant)
pahrlebe pua f me pculbe leren ur pe kinj op

t)iben him j^ape

ppipun pop f»e eopl. ] reeopi pop f>e kinj. "] pua
8i^en ^ep eprepparhleben f>e kmj-] Rantoolp eopi ar 8ran-popt» *] aSep ppopen ant)
rpeuSep psepron f hep nou'Sep pculbe bepuiken
o^ep. -3 ir ne pop-prob nahr. pop pe kinj him
pi'Sen nam m ^amrun. J^uphe ])icci past). ] bitjc
him in ppipun. ^ ep ponep he ler him ur fiuphe
pasppe pet)ro -p popepaptie -p he puop on halitiom.

bit)en.

jyplep panb. f he alle hip caprlep pcult)e iiuen
up. Sume he lap up anb pume ne lap he nohr.
anb bibe |janne pjeppe Sanne he hasp pculbe. Da
pap Gnjle-lanb puioe ro-belcb. pume helben mib
re kinj. -j pume mib f empepice. pop jja j^c king
pap in ppipun. fa penben pe eoplep "j re pice
men -p he neupe mape pculbe cumme ur. "j
pashrleben pyb ]?empepice. -j bpohren hipe inro
Oxen-popb. ant) lauen hipe pe bupch:- Da Se kinj
pap ure. J7a hepbe f paejen. anb roc hip pcopb
] bepasr hipe in pe rup. "3 me lasr hipe bun on
nihr op pe rup mib papep. -j pral ur •] peas pleh
Dasp eprep
^ isebe on pore ro lUalinj-popb.
•]

De eopl heolb Lincol ajsenep pe

pes pepbe opep pas. •] In op Nopmanbi penben
alle ppa pe kinj ro pe eopl op Snjasu. pume hepe
Jjankep -] pume hepe un-j^ankep. pop he bepser
heom ril hi aiauen up htpe caprlep. •] hi nan
Da pepbe Gupracc
helpe ne haepben op jje kinj.

benam him al f he ahre ro hauen. -j re
kinj pop pitiep. ] bcpasrre him -] hip bpoSep

op Fpance ro pipe. pent)e ro bijxron Nopmant)i

hi

paepon him.

kinj.

~]

lUilielm t)2

R

.

.

.

ape

pd caprel.

in

•]

re eopl

prjel ur -] p^ptie eprep Rotibcpr eopl op Clou-

bpohr him jjitsep

micel pepb.
anb puhren ppiSe on Eantielmappe-t)asi ajenep
hcope lauept). ~j namen him. pop hip men him
puykcn -j plujaen. ant) liet) him ro Bpiprope ant)
oitJcn flap in ppipun. "]
repep.
Da pap all
Gnjlc-lant) prypet) map ])an aep ysey. ant) all yuel

ceprpe.

-3

.

.

mit>

.

Deji eprep com pe kinjep t)ohrep
^enpi'p p: hepbe ben Gmpepic on Tvlamanie. ] nu
pasp cunrepfe in T^njou. •] com ro Lunt)ene. -j re

fxy in lant)e.

Luntsenippce pole hipe polt)e ra;cen •] ycx pleh. T
poplep pap micel:- Deji eprep be bipcop op
Ujin ceprpe ^enpi. pe kmjcp bpg^cp Srephnep.

Vol. I.

|je

kinjeppuneroFpance. -jnamljekinjeppuprep

|7.cp Jjuph.

oc he ppet)t)e lirel. ] be jotJe pihre.

pop he pap an yucl man. pop papepe he ... l)it)e
mape yuel Jeanne jot), he peuet)e pe lantiep •] Iasit)c
.

pon. hebpohre hippiproGnjle-lant).
hipe in pe capre
reb. Tot) pimman
pea? psep. oc pcse het)t)e lirel blippe mit) him. *]
xpij^r ne polt)e f he pcult)e lanje pixan. -j paspb
t)eb ant) hip moticpbelen. -jreeoplopSnjEupjept)

mic

~}

t)it)e

hip pune ^enpi roc ro pe pice. "Knb re cuen
op Fpance ro-t)s:lbe ppa pe kinj. "] peas com ro pe
lunje eopl ^enpi. •] he roc hipe ro pipe. -3 al Peirou
mit» hipe.
Da pepbe he mit) micel pspb inro
Gnjle-lanb. ] pan caprlep. -] re km j pepbe ajencp
him micel mapepepS. Tfo^pjEfepepurcnhinohr.
t)et). •]

c

oc

THE HISTORY OF THE
oc |-cpbcn

Jtc

^pce biprop -j re ]>\ye men be-

makcbc jJ pahrcfrc kinj pculbe
btii laui j\b •} kinj pile he liutbe. •] aprep hij- bsi
•} he helbe him poji pabeji ] he
p;)pe ^i npi kin
J.
nim poji pune. ant> pib -] psehre pcultJe ben bcrpyx
i5ip ant) re oSpe
hconi -] on al Gnjlc lanO.
makcben
poojien ro halbcn
jrojimiapbrp Jjtr hi

rpux hcom.

•]

pc kinj •} re eojl'. ant) re bipcop. •] re eojilrp.
picciren alle. Da pap pe eopl untjejxpanjcn
-J
^r lUin ceprjie ar.b ser L.unbene mib miccl
pujirpcipe. anb alle t)iT)en him man-pcb. ant)
puoptrn pe paip ro halt>en. ant) hir papb pone
giSc job paip pua -p ncujie pap hejie. Da pap
ki('5 prjvtrnjcjie Jjanne he seuejar hep pap. •] re
f opt pepbe oucp pas. •] al pole him luuebe. pop he
XnX)c got) jupripe -j maktt)e paip:-

Nearly about this time, the following pieces of
poetry fecm to have been written, of which 1 have
inferted only (hort fragments ; the firft is a rude
attempt at the prefent meafure of eight fyllables,
and the fccond is a natural introduftion to Robert
of Gloucejier, being compofed in the fame meafure,
which, however rude and barbarous it may feem,
taught the way to the AUxandrines of the French
p6etry.

Der nif ferpenr wolf no fox.
^orf no capil. kowe no ox.
Dcr nif fchepe no fwine no gore.
No non horwyla got) ir wore.
Noficr harare nober frot)'*.
De lant) if ful of o])er got>e.

Nif f^er flei fie no lowfc.
In clo|) in roune bet) no houfe.

Der nif tounnir flere no hawje.
No non vile worme no fnawile.
No non frorm rem no wint>e.
Der nif man no woman blint)e.
Ok al if game loi anr gle.
Wel if him pax: J7er mai be.
Der be)) riverf grer ant) fine.
Of oile mclk honi ant) wine.
Wanr feruij) jjer ro nojjing.
Bor ro fiyr ant) ro waufling.

SANCTA MARGARETTA.
r^ LD E anr yonge
^^
iere.

i

preir ou oure folief for ro

Dencher on gob ])ar yef ou wir oure funnef ro
bere.

Dcr nif lont) unt)er heuennchc.

^ere mai reilen ou. wit) wort)ef feire ant) fwere.
De vie of one meitian. waf horen COaregrere.
;^ire fat)er waf a parriac. af ic ou reilen may.
In aunrioge wif echef i Se fajic lay.
Deve gotJcf anr t)oumbe. he fervet) nitt anr t)ay.

Of wel of gotJnif hir iliche.

So t)et)en mony ojpere.

p* U R in fee bi wefr fpaynge.
•*•

If a lont) ihorc cokaygne.

picc finger weilawey.
Theot)ofius wafif nome. on crift Ae levet>e he
noutt.

Doy paraDif be miri anD briyr.
Eokaygn if of fairir fiyr.

Whar if fer in parat)if.

pe levet)e on pt falfe got)ef. Sar peren wit) hontoen

Bor graffe ant) flure anD grenerif.
Doy Jjer be loi ant) grcr t)urc.
Der nif mer bore frurc.

Do jjar chilt) fcult^e chnftine ben. ic com him well

Dcr nif halle bure no bench.

€ bet) wen ir were ibore. ro t)tpt ir were ibpoutt.

wroutt.
in |?outt.

Bor wanr man if furfro quench.
Beb per no men bur rwo.

De mot)er waf an hejjene wif pax hire ro wyman
bere.

Oinghch may hi go.

Do ^ar chilD ibore waf. nolt)e ho hir furfare.
^o rent)e ir inro afye. wib meflagerf ful yare.

Whar |?er woni|) men no mo.

To a nopice far hire wifte. anr ferre hire ro

^ely ant) cnok alfo.

mer ant) t)rink.
Wi])ure care how ant) fwink.
De mtr if rrie |)e brink fo clere:
In cokaygne

if

To none ruflin ant) fopper.
I figge for fo|) boure were.

Der nif lont) on er|?e if pere.
Unt)cr hcuen nif lont) i wifle.
Of fo mochil loi ant) blifle.
Dcr if mam fwerc fiyre.

Al if l)ai nif ))er no niyre.
Der nif barer no)'er frrif.
Nif ptr no t>ej7 ac eucr lif.
Dcr nif lac of mer no clojr.
Der nif no man no woman wrolr.

lore.

'

De nonce |)ar hire wifte. chilt)ren aheuet)e feuene.
De eitte|)e waf maregrere. crifref may of heuene.
Talef ho am rolt»e. ful feire anr ful euene.

Wou ho ])olct)en marrirt)om. fern Laurence anr
feinre Sreuene.

In thefe fragments, the adulteration of the Saxon
tongue, by a mixture of the Norman^ becomes
apparent ; yet it is not lb much changed by the
admixture of new words, which might be imputed
to commerce with the continent, as by changes
of its own forms and terminations \ for which no
reafon can be given.

Hitherto

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Hitherto the language ufed in this illand, however different in fucccffive time, may be called
Saxon; nor can it be expeded, from the nature of
things oradually changing, that any time can be
afiigned, when the Saxon may be faid to ceafe, and
the Englilh

however,

Rokrt of

commence.

to

Hii come

fe Deneys were al bynej^e,

J^e

lond folc adde J^e

byuore,

kyng was |?e boldore ]?o, & ajen hem fe more

whom any large work remains, a more cxtenfive

jpys was a

century.

&

jjeruore gode lond men ne be]? nojt al verlore.
\>c

of the Englijh language, that it was continued
in ufe almoft to the middle of the feventeenth

Code's

And more prowelTe dude ]jo, fan J>e kyng my^te

teenth century, fecms to have ufed a kind of intermediate diction, neither Saxon nor Englijh ; in
his work therefore we fee the tranfition exhibited,
and, as he is the firft of our writers in rhyme, of

He writes apparently in the
quotation is extraded.
fame mcafure with the foregoing authour of St.
Margarite, which, polifhrd into greater exadnefs,
appeared to our anceftors fo fuitable to the genius

Jf>oru

place,

Gloucejltr

who is placed by the criticks in the thir-

& fmytc an batayle, & Jjere,
grace,

drou.

And ys foure godes fones woxe vafte y nou,
Edclbold and Adelbryjt, Edelred and Alfred,
ftalwarde tern,

& of gret wyfdom & red.

And kynges were al foure, & defendede wel Jjys
lond.

An Deneys dude flame ynou, J^at me volwel vond.
Is fyxte)7e jere of j^e kynge's kynedom
In eldeftc lone Adelbold gret oft to hym nome.

And ys fader alfo god, and ofiere heye nfen al fo.
And wende ajenj^ys Deneys, j^a't muche wo adde
y do.

/^F
^-^

fe batayles of Denemarch,
\ys londe

J^at hii

dude in

J>at worft were of alle ojjere, we mote abbe an
honde.
Worft hii were, vor ojrere adde fomwanne ydo,
baxons,
wel wufte J^at lond
As Romeyns

&

&

mou]j hii come.
and Kancerbury, and

And Londone,

ojjer

tounes

nome.

And fo vor|) in to Soj^ereye, & floweSc barnde vafte,
fere fe kyng and ys fone hem mette atte lafte.

fere was batayle ftrong ynou yfmyte in an frowe.

|jerto.

Ac hii nc kept yt holde nojt, bote robby, and

f e godes kynjtes leye adoun as gras, wan medef

mowe.

flcnde.

And deftrue, & bernc, & fle, & ne coujje abbe non

Heueden, (fat were of yfmyte,)

& oferlymes alfo,

Flete in blode al fram fe grounde, ar f e batayle were

ende.

And bote lute yt nas wor]?, |?ey hii were ouercome
^lome.
Vor myd flypes and gret poer as preft effone

hii

come.
Kyng Adelwolf of ]py% lond kyng was tuenty jer.
|7e Deneys come.by hym ryuor |7an hii dude cr.

Vor in ^e al our vorft jer of ys kynedom
Myd j^re & frytty flypuol men her prince hyder

ydo.

Wannef at blod ftod al abrod, vas fer gret wo y nou.
Nys yt reufe vorto hure, fat me fo vole flou ?
Ac our fuete Louerd atte lafte fl'ewede ys fuete grace.
And fende fe Criftyne Englyfl^e men f e mayftrye in
fe place.

And fe hefcne men of Denemarch bynefe were
echon.

Nou nas fer jut in Denemarch Criftendom non

come.

And at Sou]?hamtone aryuede, an hauene by SouJ^e.
Anojjer gret oft jjulke tyme aryuede at Portef-

;

fe kyng her after to holy chyrche ys herte fe morfe
drou.

And tefejede wel & al ys lond, as hii ajte, we! y

mou{;e.
}jc

Vor myd tuo hondred flypes 8c an alf at Temfe

kyng nufte wejjer kepe,

at delde ys oft atuo.

J7e Denes adde j^e mayftrc. \o al was ydo.
And by Eftangle and Lyndcfeye hii wende vorb atte

lade.

And fo hamward al by Kent, & (lowe & barnde
vafte,

Ajen wynter hii wende hem. anojjer jer eft hii
come.

And deftrude Kent al out, and L.ondone nome.
jjus al an ten jer J?at lond hii brojte j^er doune,
*So fiat in \ic te|je jer of |)e kynge's croune,
Al byfou|3e hii come alond, and f'et folc of Somer-

fete

foru J?e byflbp Alcfton and j^et folc of Dorfete

6

nou.

Seyn Swythyn at Wyncheftre byflTop fo was,
And Alcfton at Syrebourne, fat amendede muche
fys cas.

f e kyng was wel f e betere man f oru her beyre red,
Tuenty wynter he was kyng, ar he were ded.
At Wyncheftre he was ybured, as he jut lyf fere.
Hys tueye fores he jef ys lond, as he byjct ham ere,
Adelbold, the eldore, fe kynedom of Kftfex,
And fuffe Adelbryjc, Kent and Wcftfex.
Eyjtc hondred jer yt was and feuene and fyfty al fo.
After fat God anerfe com, fat fys dcde was ydo.

Bofe hii wufte by her tyme wel her kynedom.
At fe vyfte jer Adelbold out of fys lyue nome.

At

THE HISTORY OF THE
At Sfyrcbourne he was ybured, & ys broker Adel-

Tueye batayles her after in pc fuif jere

bryjt
His kynedotn adde after hym, as lawe was and ryjt.
By ys daye pe verde com of )je hej^ene men wel prout.
And Hamteflyrc and deftrude Wyncheftre al out.
And |jat lond folc of namteflTyre her red ]jo nome
And of Barcflyre, and fojte and pc ffrewen ouer-

Hii fmyte, and at boj^e fe hefene mayftres were."
pc kyng Aldered fone )jo fen wey of def nome.
As yt vel, pe vyfty jer of ys kynedom.
At Wymbourne he was ybured, as God jef fat cas,

come.
AdelbryTC was kyng of Kent jeres folle tene.
And of Wcftfex bote vyue, fo he dcyde ych wenc.

A DEL RED was after hym kyng y mad in

**•

J?e

place,

Eyjtehondred&feuene&fyxty as in|jejerof grace.
pc vorfte jer oi ys kynedonf J^e Deneys pycke com.

And robbedc and deftrude, and cytes vafte nome.
Mayftrcs hii addeof her oft, as yt were dukes, tueye,

Hynguar and Hubba, J^at flrewen were beye.
In Eft Angle hii byleuede, to reft hem as yt were,

Myd her oft al pe wynter, of pe vorft jerc.
feojjerjerhiidudehemvor]?, &ouerHombercomc,
And flowe to grounde barnde, &Euerwyk nome.
fer was batayle ftrong y nou, vor yflawe was )jere
Ofryc kyng of Hombcrlond,
monye jjat with hym

&

&

were.
|?o Homberlond was j?us yflcnd, hii wende

& tounes

fc gode Alfred, ys brof er, after hym kyng was.

^A LFRED,nom

fys noble man, as in f e jer of grace

he

&

&

fyxty
tuelue fe kynedom.
Eyjte.hondred
Arft he adde at Rome ybe, &, vor ys grete wyfdom,
fe pope Leon hym bleflfede, fo he f uder com.
And fe kynge's croune of hys lond, fat in fys lond
Tut ys:
And he led hym to be kyng, ar he kyng were ywys.
An he was kyng of Engelond, of alle fat fer come,
fat vorft f us ylad was of f e pope of Rome,
An fuffe ofer after hym of fe erchebyflbpes echon.
So fat hyuor hym pore kyng nas fer non.
In fe Souf fyde of Temefe nyne batayles he nome
Ajen fe Deneys fe vorft jer of ys kynedom.
Nye Ter he was f us in fys lond in batayle & in wo.
An oTte fypt aboue was, and bynef e oftor mo
So longe, fat hym nere by leuede bote f re flTyren in
ys hond,
Hamteflfyre, and WylteflTyre, and Somerfete, of al

nome.

ys lond.

So Jjat atte lafte to Eftangle ajen hym come,
^cr hii barnde & robbcde, and j^at folc to grqunde
flowe.

And, as wolues among ffep, reulych hem to drowe.
Seynt Edmond was )70 her kyng,
deluol cas
morjjrede
fo jjat folc,
fat me

& jjo he fey Jjac

A day as he wery was, and afuoddrynge hym nome
And ys men were ywend auyflfef
hym com.

Seyn Cutbert to

" Icham," hcfeyde, "-Cutbert, to fe ycham ywend
" To brynge e gode tytynges. Fram God ychani
f

yfend.

r

& non amendemcntnas.

He ches leuere to deye hymfulf,

,

" Vor fat folc of fys lond to fynne her wylle al

Jjat fuch forwe to

yfey.

He dude hym vorjj among hys fon, nolde he no)?yg

jeue,

" And jut nolle herto her fynnes byieue
" foru me & ofer halewen, fat in fys lond were
ybore

fle.

& fcourged hym, &

naked

" fan vor jou byddef God, wanne we bef hym

& made hym mony a

" Hour Louerd myd ys cyen of milce on fe lokef

fat J?e arewe were on hym jjo fycce, f>at no ftede
nas byleuede.
Atte lafte hii martred hym, and fmyteof ys heued.
pc fyxte 3;cr of pe crounement of Alderecl be kyng
nywe oft com into fys lond, gret)7oru allc fyng.
And anon to Redynge robbedc and flowe.
be king and Alfred ys broker nome men ynowe,
Mette hem, and a batayle fmyte vp Aftefdoune,
fer was mony moder chyld, fatfonelay jjerdoune.
be batayle ylalte vorte nyi^t, and fer were aflawe
Vyf dukes of Dcnemarch, ar hii wolde wyf drawe.
And mony foufend of ofer men,
fo gonne hii

" Andfy poer fe wole jyue ajen, fat fou aft ney

Hii nome hym

To a tre,

hym bounde
& to hym flbte,

fujjjje

byuore,

wounde,

feruore,

A

&

to fle;

Ac hii adde alle ybc affcnd, gyf fe nyjt madde y be.

verlore.

" And

fat fou

fer

of fof

yfe,

fou

fl*alt

abbe

tokynynge.

" Vor fym men,
" In lepes

fat bef ago to day auyflynge,

& in coufles fo muche vyls hii ifolde

hym brynge,
" fat ech man wondry flfal of fo grec cacchynge.
*' And
fe mor vor fe harde vorfte, fat fe water
yfrore hys,
*'

"
*'

fat be more ajen fe kunde of vyflTynge yt ys.
Of ferueyt welajenGod, andylefmeys mefl"3ger,

And fou flail fy wylle abyde, as ycham ytold
her."

A«

\

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
As |?ys kyng herof awoc, and of |?ys fyjte jjojte,
Hys vyflTares come to hym, & io gret won of fyfs
hym brojte^
pit wonder yt was,
fo colde.
j-o lyuede J3e god

And jjat ech man knewe o|»er J^at in te|5ynge were.
And wufte fomdei of her flat, jyf me pa vp hem here.
So ftreyt he was, j^at ptf me ledde amydde weyes

& namelyche vor pe weder was

heye
Seluer, jjat non man ne dorfte yt

man wel, pn Seyn Cutbert adde

nyme,

|7ey he yt

feye.

Abbeys he rcrde mony on, and mony fliudes ywys.

ytold.

In Deuenyfiyre |5er after aryiiede of Deneys
bre and tuenty ffypuol men, all ajen pe peys,
be kynge's brojjer of Denemarcli tiuc of oft was.
Oure kynge's men of Engelond mette hem by cas,

Ac Wyncheftrye he rerde on, jjat nywe munftre
ycluped ys.
Elys lyf eyTte and tuenty jer in ys kynedom ylafl;e.
After ys dep he wos yburcd at Wynciftcllre atte lafte.

And fmyte j^er an batayle, and her gret due flowe.
And ey jte hondred & fourty men, & her caronyes
Sir John Maudeville wrote, as he himfelf informs

to drowe.

po kyng Alfred hurde j;ys, ys herte gladede )jo,
f>at lond folc to hym come fo j^ycke fo yt myjte go,
Of Somerfcte, of Wyltefiyre, of Hamteffyre jjcrio,
Euere as he wende, and of ys owe folc ai fo.
So jjat he adde poer ynou, and atte lafte hii come.
And a batayle at Edendone ajen pe Deneys nome.
And flowe to grounde, & wonne pe mayftre of the
velde.

pe kyng

& ys grete duke bygonne hem to jeldc

us, in the fourteenth century, and his work,

which

comprifing a relation of many different particulars,
confequcntly required the ufe of many words and
phrafes, may be properly fpecified in this place.
Of the following quotations, I have chofen the firft,
bccaufc it fliows, in fome meafure, the ftate of European fcience as well as of the Engli/h tongue ; and
the fecond, becaufe it is valuable for the force of
thought and beauty of exprefllon.

To pe kyng Alfred to ys wylle, and oftages toke,
Vorto wende out of ys lond, jyf he yt wolde loke ;
And jut ]?erto, vor ys loue, to auonge Criftendom.
Kyng Gurmund, pe hexte kyng, vorft jjer to come.
ybaptyfcd ek |7er
Kyng Alfred ys godfader was.
were
fretty of her hexte dukes, and muchc of j^at folc fiere
Kyng Alfred hem huld wyf> hym tuelf dawes as he

&

hcnde.
And fuj)]7e he jef hem large jyftcs, and let hym
wende.
Hii, )7at nolde Criftyn be, of lande flcve {jo.
And byjonde fte in France dude wel muche wo.
jut |7e (Irewen come ajcn, and muche wo here wrojte.
i\c|jekyng Alfred atte iafteto flame hem euere brojte.
Kyng Alfred was pt wyfofl: kynj, ]7at long was
byuore.

Vor l^ey mefegge Jjelawes be)? in worre tyme vorlore,
Nas yt nojt fo hiis daye. vor |7ey he in worre were,
Lawes he made ryjtuoUore, and ftirengore ]?an er
were.
Clerc he was god ynou, and jut, as me tellej? me.

He was more- j^an ten jer old, ar he couj^e ys abece.
Ac ys gode moder otte fmale jyftes hym tok,
Vor to byleue ojjer pie, arKi loky on ys boke.
So j:iat by por clergyc ys rvjt lawes he wonde,
pu ncuere er nere y mad, to gouerny ys lond.
And vor pc worre was fo muche of J^e lu|7er Deneys,
pe men of J?ys fulue lond were of j^c worfe peys.
And robbedc and flowe oj^ere, jjeruor he byuondc,
[;at Jjer were

hondredcs in eche contreye of ys lond.

And in ech toune of pe hondred a te^^ynge were alfo,
And J)at ech man wvjioute gret lond in tej'ynge were
Vol. 1.

TN that lond, ne in many othere bezonde that,
no man may fee the fterre tranfmontanc, that
is unmevable,
and that is toward the Northe, that we clepen
But men feen another fterre, the
the lode fterre.
•^

is

clept the fterre of the fee, that

contraric to him, that
is

clept Antartyk.

is

toward the Southe, that

And right as the fchip men

taken here avys here, and governe hem be the lode

don fchip men bezonde the parties,
of
the Southe, the which fterre apbe
And this fterre, that is toward
us.
not
to
percthc
clepen the lode fterre, ne
that
wee
Northe,
the
apperethe not to hem. For whiche caufe, men may
wel pcrceyve, that the lond and the fee ben of
rownde fchapp and forme. For the partie of the
firmament fchewethe in o contrce, that fchewethc
not in another contrce. And men may well preven
be experience and foty le compaflTement of wy tt, that
zif a man fond paflTages be fchippes, that wolde go
to ferchen the world, men myghte go be fchippc
alie aboutc the world, and aboven and benethen.
The v/hiche thing I prove thus, aftre that I have
For I have been toward the parries of Brafcyn.
ban, and beholden the Aftrolabre, that the fterre
that is clept the rranfmontayne, is 53 degrees highc.
And more forthcre in Almayne and Bewme, it
And more forthe toward the
hathe 58 degrees.
parties feptemtrioneles, it is 62 degrees of hcghte,
and certvn mynutes. For I my lelf have mefured
No*/ fchulle.ze knowe, that
it by the Aftrolabre.
azen the Tranfmontayne, is the tother fterre, that
is clept Antartyke-, as I have feyd before.
And
And be hem
tho 2 fterres ne mecven neverc.
fterre, right fo

the fterre

f

turnechs

THE HISTORY OF THE
tiirnethe alle the firmamcnr, righte as dothe a wheel,

the Weft: and the lond of Preftre John is the lov/e

that turneche be his axille tree: fo that tho fterres
bercn the firmament in 2 egallc parties; fo that it

partie of the erthe, toward the Eft :

hathe als mochel aboven, as it hath benethcn. Aftre
this, I have gon toward the parties meridionales,
and I have founden,
that is toward the Southe

highe to the contrarie, thei han the nyghte, whan
wee han the day. For the erthe and the fee ben of
round forme and fchapp, as I have feyd beforn.
And than that men gon upward to o coft, men goa
dounward to another coft. Alfo zee have herd me
feye, that Jerufalcm is in the myddes of the world;
and that may men preven and Ichewen there, be a
fpere, that is pighte in to the erthe, upon the hour
of mydday, whan it is equenoxium, that i'chewcche
no fchadwe on no fyde. And that it fcholde bea
in the myddes of the world, David wytnefTethe it
in the Pfautre, where he feythe, Deus operatus eft
falute in medio terre. Thanne'thci that parten fro
the parties of the Weft, for to go toward Jcrufalem, als many iorneyes as thei gon upward for ta
go thidre, in als many iorneyes may. thei gon fra
Jerufalem, unto other confynyes of thefuperficialtie
of the erthe bezonde. And whan men gon bezonde
tho iourneycs, towarde Ynde and to the foreyn yies,
alle is envyronynge the roundnefle of the erthe and
of the fee, undre oure contrees on this half.
And
therfore hathe it befallen many tymes of o thing,
that I have herd cownted, whan I was zong ; how
a worthi man departed fometyme from oure contrees, for togoferche the world. And fo he pafted
Ynde, and the yles bezonde Ynde, where ben mo
than 5000 yles and fo longe he wente be fee and
lond, and fo enviround the world be many feyfons,.
that he fond an yle, where he herde fpeke his owne
langage, callynge on oxen in the plowghe, fuchc
wordes as men fpekcn to beftes in his own contree:
whereof he hadde gret raervayle: for he knevve
not how it myghte be.
But I feye, that he had
gon fo longe, -be londe and be fee, that he hadenvyround alle the erthe, that he was comen azer\
cnvirounynge, that is to feye, goynge aboute, unto his pwne marches, zif he woide have pafled
torthe, til he had founden his contree and bis owne
knouleche.
But he turned azen from thens, from
whens he was come fro ; and fo he lofte moche
peynefiille labour, as him felf feyde, a gret while
aftre, that he was comen horn. For it befclle aftre,
that he wente in to Norweye-, and there tempelt of
the fee toke him; and he arryved in an yle; and
whan he was in that yle, he knew wel, that it wa»
the yle, where he had herd fpeke his owne langage before, and the callynge of the oxen at the
plowghe: and that was poftible thinge. But how
it femethe to lymple men unlerned, that men ne
mowc not go undre the erthe, and alfo that men
fcholde fallc towarde the hevene, frotn undre! But

:

that in Lybye,

men fccn firft the fterre Antartylc.

And lb ter I have gon more in tho contrees, that I
fo that tohave f'ounde that tterrc more highe
ward the highe Lybye, it is 18 degrees of hcghte,
and certeyn rrtinutcs (of the whiche, 60 minutes
maken a degree) after goynge be fee and be londe,
toward this contree,'of that 1 have fpoke, and to
other yles and londes bezonde that contree, I have
founden the fterre Antartyk of 33 degrees of
And zif 1 hadde had
heghte, and mo mynutes.
companye and fchippynge, for to go more bezonde,
1 trowe wcl in certyn, that wee fcholde have feen
alle the roundnefle of the firmament alle aboute.
For as I have fcyd zou be forn, the half of the
firmament is betwene tho 2 fterres the whiche
;

:

Kalfondellc I have feyn.

And of the other halfon-

have feyn toward the Northe, undre the
Tranfmontane 62 degrees and 10 mynutes ; and
toward the partie meridionalle, I have feen undre
and
the Antartyk 3^ degrees and 16 mynutes
thanne the halfondelle of the firmament in alle, ne
holdcthe not but 180 degrees. And of tho 180, I
have feen 62 on that o part, and 33 on that other
part, that ben 95 degrees, and nyghe the halfondelle
and fo there ne faylethe but that I
of a degree
have feen alle the firmament, faf 84 degrees and
the halfondelle of a degree ; and that is not the
fourthe p.)rt of the firmament. For the 4 partie of
the roundnefle of the firmament hole 90 degrees
fo there faylethe but 5 degrees and an half, of the
fourthe partie.
And alfo I have feen the 3 parties
of alle the roundntfle of the firmament, and more
zit 5 degrees and an half.
Be the whiche I feye
zou certrynly, that men may envirowne alle the
erthe of alie the world, as wel undre as aboven,
and turnen azen to his contree, that hadde companye and fchippynge and conduyt: and alle wcyes
he fcholde fynde men, londes, and yles, als wel as
For zee wyten wclle, that ihei
in this contree.
that ben toward the Antartyk, thei ben ftreghte,
feet azen feet of hem, that dweilen undre the Tranfmontane j als wel as wee and thei that dwellyn
undre us, ben feet azenft feet. For alle the parties
of fee and of lond han here appofiiees, habirablcs
or trepiflfiblcs, and thei of this half and bezond
half.
And wytethe wel, that afire that, that I
may parccyve and comprehendt-, the londes of
Preftre John, cmperour of Yndc ben undre us.
For in goynge from Scotlonu or from Hnglond toward Jc-rufalem, men gon upward alwcys. For
oure lond is in th«- lowe partie of the crihe, toward
delle, I

:

•,

:

and thei harj

there the day, whan wee have the nyghte, and alfo

:

that

may not be, upon lefie, than wee mowe f.iile

toward hevene, fro the erthe, where wee ben. Fof
;.ro what partie
of the erthe, that naen du?!ie,
outher

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
outher aboven or benethen,

it

femethe alweyes to

hem that duellen, that thei gon more rights than
ony other folk. And righte as it femethe to us,
that thti ben undre us, righte fo it femethe hem,
For zif a man myghte
that wee ben undre hem.
falle fro the erthe

unto the firmament; be grettere

rrfoun, the erthe and the fee, that ben fo grete and
fo hevy, fcholde fallen to the firmament: but that

may not be: and therfore feithe oure Lord God,

Non timeas me, qui fufpendi terra ex nichilo? And
alle

be it, that it be poflible thing, that men may

envyronne al!e the world, natheies of a looo
perfones, on ne myghte not happen to returncn in

coHiynge to hem, ne ben not in the fuperficyalte
cownted aboven the erthe; as it fchewethe be alle
the bokes of aftronomye. For the fuperficialtee nf
the erthe is departed in 7 parties, for the 7 planetes:
and tho parties ben clept cly mates. And oure parties be not of the 7Xlymates: for thei ben defcendynge toward the Weft.
And ajfo thofe yles of
Ynde, which beth evene azenft us, beth noghc
reckned in the clymates for thei ben azi-'nft us,
that ben in the lowe contree. And the 7 clymates
ftrecchen hem envyrounynge the world.
:

fo

For, for the grecnefle of the erthe
to his contrce.
men
may go be a looo and- a lOoo
and of the fee,
cowde reyde him pcrfitely
no
man
that
other weyes,
that
he
cam fro, but zif it were
parties
the
toward
or
be the grace of God.
happ,
and
aventure
be

For the erthe is fulle large and fulle gret, and holt
be aboven and
opynyoun of
here feyenges I
lytylle wyt, it

in roundneffe and aboute envyroun,

be benethen 20425 myles,

aftre the

And
But aftre my

the old wife aftronomeres.

repreve noughie.

femethe me, favynge here reverence, that it is
more. And for to have bcttere underftondynge, I
fcye thus, be ther ymagyned a figure, that hathe a
gret compas; and aboute the poynt of the gret
compas, that is clept the centre, be made another
litille compas: than aftre, be the gret compafs devifed be lines in manye parties ; and that alle the
fo that in as many
lynes meeten at the centre
parries, as the grete compas fchal be departed,
in als manye, fchalle be departed the litille, that
is aboute the centre, alle be it, that the fpaces
ben Icfle. Now thanne, be the gret compas reprefentcd for the firmament, and the litille cornpas
reprcfented for the erthe. Now thanne the firmament is devyfed, be aftronomeres, in 12 fignes
and every figne is devyfed in 30 degrees, that is
360 degrees, that the firmament hathe aboven.
Alfo, be the erthe devyfed in als many parties, as
the firmament; and let every partye anfwere to a
degree of the firmament: and wytethe it wel, that
afire the audoures of aftronomye, 700 furlonges of
erthe anfweren to a degree of the firmament ; and
Now be that
tho ben 87 miles and 4 furlonges.
here multiplyed be 360 fithes; and then thei ben
315000 myles, every of 8 furlonges, aftre myles of
oure coniree. So moche hathe the erthe in roundneffe, and of heghte enviroun, aftre myn opynyoun
and myn undirftondynge. And zee Ichulieundirftonde, that aftre the opynyoun of olde wife philofophrcs and aftronomeres, oure contrce ne Irelond ne
Wales nc Scotlond ne Norweye ne the other yies
•,

And I John Maundevylle knyghteabovefeyd,
thoughe I be unworthi) that departed from
ou.e contrees and paflTcd the fee, the zeer of grace
1322. that have pafltfd manye londes and manye
yles and contrees, and cerched manye fulle ftraunge
places, and have ben in many a fulle gode honourable companye, and at many a fairc dede of
amies, (alle be it that 1 dide none myle'f, for myn
II.

(alle

unable infuffifince) now I am comen horn (mawgrce
for gowces, arteiykes, that me
diftreynen, tho diffynen the ende of my labour,
azenft my wille (God knowethe.)
And thus takynge folace in my wrecched rcfte, rccordynge the
tyme paffed, I have fulfilled tlicife thinges and
pucte hem wryten in this boke, as it wolde come
in to my mynde, the zeer of grace 1356 in the 34
zeer that I depjrtede from oure contrecs.
Wherfore I preye to alle the redcres and hereres of tnis
boke, zif it plcfe hem, that thei wolde preycn to
God for me and J fchalle preye for hem. And
alle tho that feyn for me a. Pater nofter, with ar»
Ave Maria, that God forzeve me my fynnts, I
make hem partneres and graunte hem part of alle
the gode pilgrymages and of alle the gode dedes,
that I have don, zif ony be to his plefance
and
noghte only of tho, but of alle that evere I fchalle
do unto my lyfes ende. And I befeche Almyghty
God, fro whom alle godcntfle and grace comethe
fro, that he vouchefaf, of his excellent mercy and
habundant grace, to fulle fyUe hire foules with infpiracioun of theHolyGoft, in makynge defence of alle
hire goftly enemycs here in erthe, to hire falvacioun,
botheof body andfoule; toworfchipeandthankynge
of him, that is three and on, with outen begy nny nge
and withouten endynge; that is, with outen qualitee, good, and with outen quantytee, gret ; that
in alle places is prefent, and alle thinges contenynynge ; the whichc that no goodneffe may amende,
ne non evelle empeyre; that in perfeyte trynytee
lyvethe and rcgnethe God, be alle worldes and be
alle cymes.
Amen, Amen, Amen.

my lelf) to rcfte

:

:

:

The

THE HISTORY OF THE
The fifft of our authours, who can be properly
to have written Englijh, was Sir John Govoer^
who, in his Confejfton of a Lover, calls Chaucer his difciplc, and may therefore be confidercd as the father
of our poetry.
ijiid

The hiftoryof our language is now brought to the
point at which the hiftory of our poetry is generally
fuppofed to commence, the time of the illuftriou«
Geoffry Chaucer, who may, perhaps, with great juftice, be ftiled the firft of our verfifiers who wrote

He does not, however, appear to have

poetically.

"VJOWE
^

It is

for to fpeke of the commune,

to drcde of that fortune,

Whiche hath befalle in fondryc londes:
But ot'te for dcfaute of bondes
All fodcinly, er it be wift,

A tunne, when his

lie arift

Tobreketh, and renncth all aboute,
Whi.hc els (liulde nought gone out.
And eke full ofte a littcll Ikarc

Vpon a banke, er men be ware.
Let in the ftrcme, whiche with gret peine.
If any man it Ihall rcftreine.
Where lawe failleth, errour groweth.
He is not wife, who that nc trowcth.

For it hath proucd oft er this.

And thus the common clamour is
In euery londe, where people dwelieth:
And eche in his complainte tellethj
How that the worlde is mifwent,
And thervpon his argument
Yeueth euery man in fondrie wife:
But what man wolde him fclfe auife
His confcience, and nought mifufe,
He maie well at the firft excufe
His god, whiche euer ftant in one.
In him there is detaute none
So muft it ftand vpon vs felue.
Nought only vpon ten ne twelue.

But plcnarly vpon vs all.
For man is caufe of that fliall fall.

defervcd all the praifc which he has received, or all
the cenfure that he has fufFered.
Dryden, who,
miftaking genius for learning, in confidence of his
abilities, ventured to write of what he had not examined, afcribes to Chaucer the firft refinement of
our numbers, the firft produftion of eafy and natural
rhymes, and the improvement of our language, by

words borrowed from the more polilhed languages
of the continent. Skinner contrarily blames him in
harftj terms for having viiiatcdhis native fpeech by
'whole cartloads of foreign words.
But he that reads
the works of Cower will find fmooth numbers and
eafy rhymes, of which Chaucer is fuppofed to have
been the inventor, and the Frorch words, whether
good or bad, of which Chaucer is charged as the
importer.
Some innovations he might probably
make, like others, in the infancy of our poetry,
which the paucity of books does not allow us to difcover with particular exadnefs ; but the works of
Ccmer and Lydgate fufficiently evince, that his diction was in general like that of his contemporaries :
and fome improvements he undoubtedly made by
the various difpofitions of his rhymes, and by the
mixture of different numbers, in which he feems to
have been happy and judicious. I have fcleftcd
feveral fpecimens botii of his profe and verfe ; and
among them, part of his tranflation of Boetius, to
which another vcrfion, made in the time of queen
Mary, is oppolcd. It would be improper to quote
very ff.aringly an author of fo much reputation, or
to make very large extradts from a book fo generally

known.

CHAUCER.

C O L V I L E.

ALAS! 1 wepyngamconllrained to begin verfe

*^ of forowfull matter, that whilom in florifhyng

made delitable ditees. For lo
rendyng
mufes of a Poctes cditen to me thingcs to be
writcn, and dreric teres.
At lade no drede ne
might overcame tho inufes, ihat thci ne werren fellowcs, and foloweden my waic, that is to faie,
when I was exiled, thei that weren of my youth
whilom wclfull and grene, comforten now forow-

ftudie

full

!

wcirdcs of

me olde man

:

for clde

is

comcn

unwarely upon mc, haflcd by the harmes that I
have, and forowc hath commaunded his age to be
Heres hore arcn fhad overtimcliche upon
in mc.
my hed : and the flackc fkinne irembleih of mine
cmptcd bodie. Thilke dtth of men is wclefuil,
that he ne comcth not in ycrcs that be fwete, but
5

comcth

T That
-^

tyme of profperite, and floryfhing
made plcaHiunte and delegable dities,

in

ftudye,

alas now beyng heauy and fad ouerthrowen in aduerfuie, am compelled to fele and taft
hcuines and greit.
Beholde the mufes Poeticall,

or verfes :

that

is

verfes,

to

laye :

the pleafure that

is

in

poetes

do appoynt me, and compel mc to writ

thefe verfes in meter,

and the forowfull verfes do

my wretched face with very watcrye teares,
yffuinge out of my eyes for forowe. Whiche mufes
wet

no icare without doute could ouercome, but that
they wold folow me in my iourney of exile or baniflimcnt.
Soniecyme the ioye of happy and lufly
delegable youth dyd comfort me, and nowe the
rourfe of forowfull olde age caufeth me to reioyfe.

For hafty old age vnloked

for is come vpon

me

with

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Alas, alas
to wretclies often icleped
turneth
awaie fro
cruell
deth
ere
an
defe
with how
wepyng
eyen.
clofe
for
to
naieth
and
wretches,

comcth

:

While fortune unfaithful! favoured me with light
godes, that forowfull houre, that is to faie, the
but now
deth, had almofte t'rente myne hedde
for fortune cloudie hath chaunged her decevable
:

chere to mewarde, myne unpitous life drawech
ye my frendes,
along ungreable dwellynges.
what, or whereto avaunted ye me to ben welfuU ?
For he that hath fallin, (lode in no ftedfaft degre.

O

with al her incommodities and euyls, and forow
hath commaunded and broughteme into the fame
that forowe caufcth me to
old age, that is to fay
The
be oide, before my time come of olde age.
hoer heares do growe vntimely vpon my heade,
and my reuiled (kynne trembleth my flefh, cleane
confumed and wafte with forowe. Mannes death
is happy, that cometh not in youth, when a man
is luftye, and in pleafure or welth: but in time of
Alas Alas
aduerfitie, when it is often defyred.
how dull and deffe be the eares of cruel death vnto
men in mifery that would fayne dye and yet refufythe to come and (hutte vp thcyr carefuU wepyng eyes. Whiles that falfe fortune fauoryd me
with her tranfitorye goodcs, then the howre of
:

:

That is to fay
death had alnioft oucrcome me.
opprefTe
redy
me
when
to
I was in prodeathe was
caufe
that
fortune
Nowe
for
by
beynge
fperitie.
into
aduerfuie
(as
the
clere
profperitie
turned, from
cloudes)
and
hath
chaungyd
her
darkyd
with
day is
is
countenaunce
wretched
life
yet
my
deceyuable
doth
continue
in
dolour.
my
and
prolonged
ftendes why haue you fo often bofted me, fayinge
:

O

was happy when I had honour pofleflions
riches, and authoritie whych be tranfitory thynges.
He that hath fallen was in no ftedefaft degre.

that

I

TN the mene while, that

I ftill record thcfc thynges
with my felf, and marked my wepelie complainte
with office of poin(n:c!l
I faugh (londyng aboven
the hight of myn hed a woman of full grcte reverence, by femblaunt.
Her eyen brennyng, and
clere, feyng over the common m'.ght of menne,
with a lively colour, and with fothe vigour and
ftrength that it nc might not be nempned, all were
it fo, that fhc were full of fo grete age, that menne
wouKirn not trowcn in no manere, that Ihe were of

Y\7"HYLES that I confiderydde pryuylye with

*•

my felfe the thynges before fayd, and defcrymy wofuU complaynte after the maner and
ofFyce of a wrytter, me thought I fawe a woman
ftand oucr my head of a reuerend countenaunce,

our elde.

ledge, for nowe fhe fhewethe herfclfe at the cornmen length or ftatur of men, and other whiles fhe

:

The ftature of her was of dourous Judgemente,
for fometyme flie conftrained and (hronke her felven,
like to the common mefure of menne :

And fome-

it femed, that fhe touched the heven with
the hight of her hedde.
And when flie hove her
hedde higher, fhe perced the felf heven, fo that the

tyn-e

menne lokyng was in ydell her clothes
wer maked of right dclie thredes, and fiibtel craft
of perdurable matter. The whiche clothes (he had
fight of

:

woven with her owne handes, as 1 kncwe well after
by her felf declaryng, and fhewyng to me the
beautie :

The whiche clothes a darknefle of a for-

leten and difpifed eldc

had dufked and darked, as
wonte to darke by fmoked Images.
In the nethereft hemme and border of thefe
clothes menne reddc iwoven therein a Grekifhe A.
that fignifieth the life adive, and above that letter,
in the hieft bordure, a Grekifhe C. that fignifieth
the life contemplatife.
And betwene thefe two
it is

Vol. I.

letters

'

bed

hauyng quycke and glyflcryng clere eye,
the common forte of

aboue

men in lyuely and delegable

coloure, and ful of ftrength, although fhe femed fo
olde that by no meanes fhe is thought to be one of
this oure tymc, her ftature is of douteful know-

femeth fo high, as though flie touched heuen with
the crown of her hed. And when (he wold ftretch
fourth her hed hygher, it alfo perced thorough
heauen, fo that mens fyghte coulde not attaine to
behold her, Her veftures or cloths were perfyt of
the finyfte thredes, and fubtyll workemanfliyp, and
of fubliaunce permanent, whych vefturs fhe had
wouen with her own hands as I perceyued after by
The kynde or beawtye of the
her owne faiynge.
whyche veftures, a certayne darkenes or rather ignoraunce of oldenes forgotten hadde obfcuryd and
darkened, as the fmoke is wont to darken Images
that ftand nyghe the fmoke. In the lower parte of
the faid veftures was read the greke letter P. wouen
whych fignifyeth praftife or aftyffe, and in the
hygher parte of the veftures the greke letter T.

whych ettandeth for theorica, that fignifyeth fpeculacion or contemplation.
[ g ]

And betwene both the
fayd

THE HISTORYOF THE
letters there were

ken degrees nobly wrought, in
mancr of lad^icrs, by whiche degrees mcnne might

fayd letters were fcne ccrtayne degrees, wrought
after the maner of ladders, wherein was as it were

climben from the ncthercfl: letter to the uppercrt:
nathclcne handes of fomc men hadden kerve that
clothe, by violence or by ftrcngth, and evcriche
marine of 'hem had borne awaic Ibche ptrces, as he
might getten. And forfothe this forlaied woman
bare fmalc bokes in her right hande, and in her left
hand fhe bare a fcepter. And when flie fawe thefe
Pocticall miifes approchyng about my bed, and
endityng wordes to my wtpynges, (he was a litle
amoved, and glowed with cruell cycn. Who (q^
fhe) hath fuffcrcd approchen to this fike mannc
ihcfe commen ftrompettes, of which is the place
that mcnne callen Theatre, the whiche onely ne
iffwagen not his forowcs with renrwdies, but thei
would feden and norifhe hym with fwete venime ?
forfothe, that ben iho that with thornes, and
prickynges of talentesof affeccions, whiche thatben
nothyng fruftuous nor profitable, diftroicn the
For thei
Corne, plcntuous of fruiites of refon.
holden hcrtes of men in ufage, but thei ne deliver
no folke fro maladie. But if ye mufes had withdrawcn fro me with your flatteries any unconnyng
and unprofitable manne, as ben wont to finde com-

a paflage or waye in lleppes or degrees

menly emong the peple, I would well fuffre the
For why, in foche an unprofitable
man myn ententes were nothyng endamaged. But
ye withdrowen fro me this man, that hath ben
nourifhed in my ftudies or fcoles of Eleaticis, and
But goeth now rather
of Academicis in Grece.
awaie ye Mermaidens, whiche that ben fwete, till
it be at the laft, and lufFreth this man to be cured
and hcled by my mufes, that is to fay, by my notefull fciences.
And thus this companie of mufes
iblamed caften wrothly the chere dounward to the
yerth, and Ihewing by rcdnelTc ther fhame, thei
lafle grcvoufly.

pafTeden forowfully the threlholde.

And

I

of whom

the fight piounged in teres was darked, fo that I ne

might not know what that woman was, of fo ImI woxe all abalhed and ftonied,
and caft my fight doune to the yerth, and begin
ftill tor to abide what fhe would doen afterward.
Then came flie nere, and fct'her doune upon !.he
uttereit corner of my bed, and fhe beholdyng my
chere, 'hat was caft to the yerth, hevie and grevous
of wei-yng, complained with thefe wordes (that I

perial audthoritie,

fliall

fainc) the periurbacion of my thought.

from the
lower part wher the letter P. was which is vnderftand from pradtys or aftyf, unto the hygher parte
wher the letter T. was whych is vnderfland fpecu!acion or contemplacion,
Neucrthcles the handes
of fome vyolente perfones had cut the faydc veftures
and had taken awaye certayne pecis thereof, fuch
as euery one coulde catch.
And fhe her lelre dyd
bare in her ryght hand litcl bokes, and in her lefce
hande a fcepter, which forefayd phylofophy (when
fhe faw the mufes poetycal prefent at my bed, fpck-

yng forowfull wordes to my wepynges) beyng angry
iayd (with terrible or frownynge countenaunce) who
fuffred thefe crafty harlottes to com to ihys fycke

man ? whych can help hym by no means of hys
griefe by any kind of medicines, but rather increaie

the fame with fwete poyfon.
Thefe be they that
doo dyftroye the fertile and plentious commodytyes
of reafon and the fruytes therof wyth their pryckynge thornes, or barren affecles, and accuftome or
fubdue mens myndes with fickenes, and heuynes,
and do not delyuer or heale them of the fame. But
yf your flatterye had conueyed or wythdrawen from
me, any vnlernyd man as the comen forte of people
are wonte to be, I coulde haue ben better contentyd, for in that my worke fbould not be hurt or
hynderyd. But you haue taken and conueyed
from me thys man that hath ben broughte vp in the
fludyes of Arif^otel and of Plato. But yet get you
hence maremaids (that feme fwete untyil you haue

brought a man to deathe) and fuffer me to heale
man wyth my mufes or fcyences that be
holfome and good. And after that philofophy had
fpoken thefe wurdes the fayd companyeof the mufys
poeticall beyng rebukyd and fad, cafle down their
countenaunce to the grounde, and by blulTyng confeffed their fhamfaftnes, and went out of the dores.
But I (that had my iyght dull and blynd wyth
wepyng, fo that 1 knew not what woman this was
hauing foo great audthoritie) was amalyd or aftonyed,and lokyng downeward, towarde ehe grounde,
I began pryvylye to look what ihyng fhe would
faye ferther, then fhe had fa id.
Then fhe ap«
proching and drawynge ncre vnto me, fat downe
vpon the vttermoll part of my bed, and lokyng
vpon my face fad with weplng, and declynyd
toward the earth for Ibrow, bewayied the trouble of
my minde wyth thde layinges folowynge.
thys my

The

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
The condufions of the Astrolabie.
This book (written to his fon in the year of our
Lord 1391, and in the 14 of King Richard II.)
ftandeth fo

good at this day, efpecially for the

horizon of Oxfcrd, as in the opinion of the
learned it cannot be amended, fays an Edit, of
Chaucer.

T Y T E L Lowys my fonne, I perceve well by
-' certaine evidences thync abylyte to lerne fcyences,

touching nombres

and proporcions, and

thy bcfye prayer in efpecyal
Than for
the alfrolabye.
of
tretyfe
the
lerne
to
wrapeth
hym
faithe,
he
philofophcr
a
as
moche
as
in his frende, that condilcendeth to the ryghcalfo well conlydre

I

prayers of his frende : therfore I have given
the a I'ufficient aftrolabye for oure orizont, compowned after the latitude of Oxenforde : upon the

he foriete it ones. And, Lewis, if it be fo that I
(hewe the in my lith Engliftie, as trew conclufions touching this mater, and not only as trewe
but as many and fubtil conclufions as ben yftiewed
in latin, in any comon tretife of the aftrolabye,
conne me the more thanke, and praye God fave the
kinge, thaf is lorde of this langage, and all that
him faith bereth, and obeieth everiche in his degree, the more and the lafle.
But confydreth
well, that I ne ufurpe not to have founden this
werkc of my labour or of myne engin. I n'ame
but a leude compilatour of the laboure of olde
aftrologiens, and have it tranllated in myn engliftie
onely for thy dodrine and with this fwerde ftial
:

1

ftene e.^vy.

full

The firft party.
The firft partye of this tretife ftial reherce the
and the membres of thyne aftrolaby, by-

•whiche by mediacion of this lytell tretife, I purpole to teche the a certaine nombre of conclufions,

figures,

1 lay a cerpcrtainynge to this fame inllrumcnt.
taine nombre of conclufions for thre caufcs, tUe
firft caule is this. Trufte wel that al the conclufions
that have be founden, or ells pofliblye might be
founde in fo noble an inftrument as in the aftrolabye, ben unknowen perfitely to anye mortal man
Another caule .
in this region, as 1 iuppofe.
this, that foihely in any cartes of the aftrolabye

thine owne inftrument.

caufe that thou ftialte have the greter knowinge of

The feconde party.

that I have yff ne, ther ben fome conclufions, that
wol not in al thinges perfourme ther beheftes: and

Th feconde partye ftial teche the to werken the
very praftike of the forefai i conclurn>ns, as ferforthe and alfo narowe as may be fnewed in ft>
For wel
fmale an inftrument portatife aboute.
wote every aftrologien, thai fmalleft frailions ne
wol not be ftiewe i in fo i'mal an inftrument,, as in

fome of 'henj ben to harde to thy tender age of

fubtil tables caculcd for a caufe.

This tretife divided in five
partes, wil 1 fhewe the wondir *lighi rules and
naked wordes in Engliftie, for Latine ne canft
thou nat yet but fmale, my litel fonne. But neten yere to conceve.

verthclerTe luffifcth to the thefe trewe conclufyons

wel as fufHfeth to thefe noble
clerkes grekes thefe fame conclufyons in greke,
and to the Arabines in Arabike, and to Jewes
in

•

Engliftic, as

in Hebrewe, and to the Latin folke in Latyn:
whiche Latyn folke had 'hem firfte out of other divers langages, and write 'hem in ther owne tonge,

that is to faine in Latine.

And God wote ihat in all thefe langages and in
manyc mo, have thef^ conclufyons ben fufficientlye
lerned and taught, and yet by divers rules, right
as divers pathes ledcn divers folke the right waye
to Rome.

Now wol I pray mekely every perfon difcrete,
my

that redcth or hereth this lityl tretife to have

rude ententing cxcufed, and my fupcrfluite of
wordes, for two caufcs.
The firft caufe is, for
that curious eniiityng and harde fentences is ful
hevy at ones, for foch a childe to lerne. And the
feconde caufe is this, that fothely me femeth better
to writen unto a childe twife a gode fentence, than
5

The Prologue of the Testament of LOVE.
I

jV/TANY men there ben, that with eres openly

^^^ fprad fo moche fwalowen the delicioufnefte of
jeftes

and of ryme, by queint knittinge coloures,

that of the godenefle or of the badneffe of the fen-

tence take they lilel hede or els none.
Sothelye dulle witte and a thoughtfuUe foule fo
fore have mined and grafted in my fpirites, that
foche craft of enditingc woll nat ben of mine

acquaintaunce. And for rude wordes and boiftous
percen the herte of the herer to the inreft point, and
planten there the fentence of thinges, fo that with
litel helpe it is able to fpring, this boke, that nothynge hath of the grete flode of wytte, ne of
fcmelyche colours, is dolven with rude wordes and
boiftous, and fo drawe togiSer to maken the catchers therof ben the more redy to hent fentence.
Some men there ben, that painten with colours
riche and fome with wers, as with red inke, and
and yet is there gode
foine with coles and chalke
matter to the leude peple of thylke chalkye purtrcyture, as 'hem thinketh for the time, and after:

ward

THE HISTORY OF THE
ward the fyght of the better colours yeven to 'hem
more joyc tor the firft leudncflTe. So foihly this
Icude clowdy occupacyon is not to prayfe, but by
the leude, for comenly leude leudeneflc commendEke it (hal ycve fight that other precyous
eth.
In Latin
thynges fhall be the more in reverence.
had
grete
wittes
foveraine
many
and French hath
fulnoble
thinges
many
have
dclyte to endite, and
ther
fpeken
that
fome
ben
there
fildc, but ccrtes
the
whiche
fpcche
of
Frenche,
poifye mater in

Frenche men have as gode a fantafye .as we
have in hcryng of Frenche mens Engliflie. And
many termes there ben in Englyfhe, whiche
unncth we Englifhe men connen declare the
knowkginge howe fhould than a Frenche man
borne ? loche tcrmcs connejumperc in his matter,
but as the jay chatcreth Englifhe. Right fo truely
the underftandyn of Englifhmen woll not ftretche
to the privie termes in Frenche, what fo ever we
Let then clerkes enboften of ftraunge langage.
ditcn in Latin, for they have the propertie of
fcience, and the knowinge in that facultie: and
lette Frenche men in iher Frenche alfo enditen ther
queint termes, for it is Jcyndcly to ther mouthes
and let us (hewe our fantafies in fuch wordes as we
:

And although this
lernedcn of our dame's tonge.
boke be lytel thank worthy for the leudnefTe in
travaile, yet foch writing exiten men to thilke
thinges that ben neceffarie ; for every man therby
may as by a perpetual myrrour fcne the vices or vertues of other, in whyche thynge lightly may be
conceved to cfchue perils, and neceffarics to catch,
after as aventures have fallen to other peplc or
perfons.

Certcs the foverainft thinge of defirc and mod
creture refonable, have or els (huld have full apunrefonable beftes
petite to ther perfeccyon
:

mowcn not, fithe rcfon hath in *hem no workinge
ihan refonable that wol not, is compari'bned to unrefonable, and made lyke 'hem. Forfothe the molt
foveraine and finall pcrfeccion of man is in know-yngc of a fothe, withouten any entent dccevable,
and in love ot one very God, that is inchaungeable,
*hat is to knowe, and love his creator.
Nowe principally the menc to brynge in knowleging and lovynge his creatour, is the confidera<yon of thynges made by the creatour, wher through
by thylke thinges that ben made, underltandynge
here to our wyttes, arne the unlcne pryvities of
God made to us fyghtfuU and knowinge, in our
contcmplacion and underftondinge. Tnele thinges
than forfothe moche bringen us to the ful knowleginge fothe, and to the parfyte love of the maker
ot htvenly thynges. Lo! David laith: thou hade

mc in makinge,as who faith, to have deiite
how God hat lent me in confideracion
of thy inakinge. Whcrof Ariftotle in the boke
dclitcd

in the tunc

de Animalibus, faith to naturell philofophcrs it is
a grete likynge in love of knowinge ther cretourc:
and alfo in knowinge of caufes in kindelye thynges,
conQdrid forfothe the formes of kindelye thinges
and the fhap, a gret kyndely love we fliulde have
to the werkman that 'hem made.
The crafte of a
werkman is fhewed in the werk. Herefore trulie
the philofopliers with a lyvely ftudie manie noble
thinges, righte precious, and worthy to memoryc,
writen, and by a gret fwet and travaille to us leften
of caufes the properties in natures of thinges, to
whiche therfore philofophers it was more joy, more
:

mere herty lull in kindely vertues and
matters of refon the perfeccion by bufy ftudy to
knowe, than to have had all the trefour, al the
lykinge,

al the vainctglory, that the pafled emperours, princes, or kinges hadden.
Therfore the

richeflTe,

names of 'hem in the boke of perpetuall memorie
pece arne writen
and in the con-

in vertue and

-,

that is to faine, in Styxe the foule pitte of
helle arne thilke prefled that foch godenes hated.

trarie,

And bicaufe this boke fliall be of love, and tha
prime caufes of ftering in that doinge with paffions and dilefes for wantinge of defire, I wil that
this boke be clcped the teftament of love.
But nowe thou reder, who is thilke that wirtnot
in fcorne laughe, to here a dwarle or els halfe a
man, fay he will rende out the fwerde of Hercules
handes, and alfo he fhulde fet Hercules G;ides a
mile yet ferther, and over that he had power of

up the fpere, that Alifander the
noble might never wagge, and that paflmge al
thinge to ben mayfter of Fraunce by might, there
as the noble gracious Fdwarde the thirde for al his
grete prowelTe in viftories nc might al yet conquere?
Certes I wote well, ther fiiall be made more
fcorne and jape of me, that I fo unwortheiy clothed
altogither in the cloudie cloude of unconning, wil
putten me in prces to fpeke of love, or els of the
caufes in that matter, fuhen al the grettefl; clerkes
han had ynough to don, and as who faith gathered
up clene tofornc 'hem, and with ther fharp fithes of
conning al mowen and made cherof grete rekes and
noble, ful of al plenties to fede me and many an
ftrengch to pull

other.

Envye forfothe commendeth noughte his

refon, that he hath in hain,

be it never fo trulty.

And although thefe noble repers, as gode workmen and worthy ther iiier, han al draw and bounde
up in the Iheves, and made many fhockcs, yet have
1 enfample to gaScr the fmale crommes, and fullin

ma walet of tho that fallen from the bourde among
the fmalle houndes, notwithftanding the travaile of
the almoigner, that hath draw up

m il)e cloth al

and the relefe to
bere to the almeire.
Yet alfo have 1 ieve of the
noble hulbande Boece, although I be a (Iraunger
of conningc to come after his dodrinc, and thefe
the remilfiiles,

as

trenchours,

grete

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
workmen, and glene my handfuls of the
Ihedynge after ther handes, and yf me faile ought
of my ful, to encrefe my porcion with that I fhal
drawe by privy ties out of fhockes-, a flye fervaunte
grete

in his owne heipe is often moche commended 5
knowynge of trouthe in caufcs of thynges, was
more hardier in the firfte fechers, and fo fayth

and lighter in us that han folowed after.
For ther pafTing ftudy han freflied our wittes, and
oure underftandynge han excited in confideracion
Utterly
of trouth by fliarpenes of ther refons.
japes,
ne
throwe
dremcs
to
to
thcfe thingcs be no
children
of
mete
for
trouth,
lifelych
hoc^tres, it is
and as they me betiden whan I pilgramed out of
my kith in wintere, whan the wether out of mefure
was bolftous, and the wyld w.ynd Boreas, as his
kind afketh, with dryingc coldes maked the wawes
of the ocean fe fo to arife unkindely over the commune bankes that it was in point to fpill all the
Ariftotle,

crche.

The Prologues of the Canterbury Tales of
CHAUCER, from the MSS.

XX/HEN that Aprilis with his (houris fote,
^ ^ The drought of March had percid to the rote.
And iiathid every veyn in fuch licpur,
Of which vcrtuc engendrid is the flour.

When Zephyrus eke, with his fwete brcth
Enfpirid hath, in every holt and heth
The tender croppis ; and that the yong Sunn
Hath in the Kamm his halve cours yrunn :

And fmale foiriis makin melodye.
That Qepin alle night with opin eye,
(So prickith them nature in ther corage)

Then longin folk to go on pilgrimage

:

And palmers for to fekin ftrange ftrondes,

To fervin hallowes couth in fondry londes:
And fpeciaUy fro every fhir'is end
Of England, to Canterbury they wend.
The holy blisfull martyr for to fckc.

I That them hath holpin, whan that they

were feke.

Befell that in that fefon on a day

In Southwerk at the Tabberd as I lay,

Redy to wcndin on my pilgrimage

To Canterbury, with devote corage.
At night wer come into that hoftery
Wcle nine and twenty in a cumpany

And made forward erli for to rife.

To take our weye, ther as I did devife.
But nathlefs while that I have time and fpace,
Er' that I farther in this tale pace,
Methinkith it accordaunt to refon.
To tell you alle the condition
Of ech of them, fo as it femid me.
And which they werin, and of what degree.
And eke in what array that they wer in
And at a knight then woll I firft begin.
:

The Knight.

A knight ther was, and that a worthy man,
That fro the time that he firft began

To ridin out, he lovid Chevalrie,
Trouth and honour, fredome and curtefy.
Full worthy was he in his lordis wcrre.
And thereto had he riddin nane more ferre

As well in Chriftendom, as in Hethnefs j
And evyr honoured for his worthinefs.
At Aleflandre' he was whan it was wonj
Full oft timis he had the bord begon

Abovin alle naciouns in Pruce

-,

In Lettow had he riddin, and in Luce,

No Chriften-man fo oft of his degree
In Granada
in the fege had he be
Of Algezir, and ridd in Belmary
At Leyis war he, and at Sataly,
Whan that they wer won ; and in the grete fee
At many'a noble army had he be
At mortal battails had he ben fiftene.
And foughtin for our feith at Tramefcne,
In liftis ihrys, and alwey flein his fo.
This ilke worthy knight hath ben alfo
Sometimis with the lord of Palathy,
Ayens anothir hethin in Turky j
And evirmore he had a fov'rane prize ;
And though that he was worthy, he was wife j
And of his port as mtke as is a maid.
He nevir yet no villany ne faid
In all his life unto no manner wight:
He was a very parfit gentil knight.
But for to tellin you of his array.
His hors wer good ; but he was nothing gay j
Of fuftian he werfd a gipon,
Alle bcfmottrid with his haburgeon.
For he was late ycome from his viage,
And wcnte for to do his pilgrimage.
•,

:

Of lundrie folk, by aventure yfall
In felafhip

;

The House of FAME.

and pilgrimes wer they all:

That toward Canterbury wouldin ride.

The Firft Boke.

The chambers and the ftabiis werin wide,
[And well we werin efid at the beft
And fhortly whan the funne was to red.
So had I ipokin with them everych one.
:

That was of ther felalhip anone j
Vol. I.
I

"XT O
*-^

W herken,

as I have you faied,

What that I mette or I abraied,

Of December the tenith daie.

When it was night, to flepe 1 laie,
[h]

Right

THE HISTORY OF THE
Right as I was wontc for to docn.
And fill aQcpe wondir lone.
As he that was weiie forgo
On pilgrimage milis two

To the corps of fainft L.eonarde,
To makin lith that erll was harde.
But as mc flcpt mc mette I was
Within a temple' imadc of glas,
In whiche there wcrin mo images

Of golde, ftandyng in fondric lbge»,
Sette in mo riche tabirn-icles.
And with perrc mo pinnacles.
And mo curious portraituris,
And qucint manir of figuris
Of goldc worke, then 1 fawc CTir.
But certainly 1 n'ift ncvir

Where that it was, but well wift I
It was of Venus rcdily
This temple, for in purtrciture
1 fawe anone right her figure

Efcapid was from all the pre?,
And toko his fathrc*, old Anchifes,
And bare hym on his backe awaie.
Crying alas and wclawale
The whiche Anchifes in his hande.
Bare tho the godJis of the lande
I mene thilke that unbrcnnid were.
Then fawe 1 next that all in fere
How Creufa, Dan /Eneas wife.
that he lovid all his life.
And her yong fonne clepid Julo,
And eke Afcanius alio,
Fleddin eke, with full dreric chere.
That it was pile for to here.
!

Whom

And in a foreft as thei went

How at a tournyng of a went
Creufa was ilollc, alas
That rede not I, how that it was

How he her fought, and how her ghofte
Bad hym to flic the Grekis hofte.

Nakid yfletyng in a fe.

And faied he mufl: into Itaile,

And alfo on her hedde parde
Her rofy garUnd white and redde.
And her combe for to kcmbe her hcddc.

As was his deftinie, fauns faile.
That it was pitic for to here.

Her dovis, and Dan Cupido
Her blinde fonne, and Vulcano,

The wordis that Ihe to hym laied.
And for to kepc her fonne hym praied.

That in his face ywas full broune.
But as I romid up and doune,

There fawe I gravin eke how he
His fathir eke, and his meine
With his Ihippis began to faile

I

founde that on the wall there was

Thus writtin on a table* of bras.
I woll now fyng, if that I can.

The armis, and alio the man.
That firll came through his deftine
Fiigitific fro Troye the countre
Into itaile, with full mochc pine.
Unto the ftrondis of Lavine,

When that her fpirite gan appere.

Toward the countrey of Itaile,

As llreight as ere thei mightm go.
There fawe I eke the, cruill Juno,
That art Dan Jupiter his wife.
That hsft ihated all thy life
Mercilefs all the Trojan blode,

And tho began the ftoric' anone.

Rennin and crie as thou were wodc
On j^olus, the god of windcs.

As I (hall tellin you ecbone.

To blowin out of alie kindes

fawe I the dilUuccion
Of Troie, thorough the Grcke Sinon,
With his falTc untrue forfwcryngcs.
And with his chere and his Icfynges,

So loude, that he (hould ydrenche
Lorde, and ladie, and grome, and wenche

Firll

That made a hori'e, brought into Troye,
By whiche Trojans lofte all their joye.

And aftir this was graved, alas

How llions calhll aHailed was.
And won, and kyng Friamus llain.
And PoJites his ionre certain,
Difpitoutly of Dan Pyrrhus.

And next that fawc I howc Venus,

When that (he fawe the caftill brcnde,
Doune from hevin (he gan difccnde.
And bade her fonne ^neas He,
And how he fled, and how that he

Of all the Trojanis nacion.
Without any* of their falvacion.
There fawe I foche tempell arife.
That every herte might agrife.
To fe it painiid on the wall.
There lawe I eke grawin withall,
Venus, how ye, my ladie dere,
Ywcpyng with full wofuU cherc
Yprayid Jupiter on hie.
To lave and kepin that navie
Of that dere Trojan ^neas,
Sithins that he your fonne ywas.

Code

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Sale thus grant mercie of thin iiabundauncr,.

Gode counfallc of Chaucer.

That thou hafl lentor this, thou (lialt not llrivej.

What wort thou yet how the woll avauncc?
And eke thou hall thy beflc frende alive.

17 L I E fro the prcfe and dwell with fothfallnefle,

*

Suffife unto the gode though it

For horde hath hate, and climbyiig tikilneirc,
Prtce hath cnvie, and wcle it brent oer ail,
Savour no more4bcn the bchovin fhall.

Rede well thy felf,

that othir folkc canft rede.

And trouthe the ihall delivir it 'is uodrcdc.
Paine the not cche crokid to rcdrefle.
In truft of her that tournith as a balle,
Crete reft ft.jndith in litil bulincfle.

Beware alio to fpurne ag^in a nalle.
Strive not as doith a crockc with a walle,

Dcmirh thy felf that demill othir's dcde.

And trouthe the fhall deliver it 'is no drede.
That the is fcnt rcceve in buxomentfll-

•,

The wralUyng of this worlds aikith a fjU
Here is no home,

;

but wildirncflV,
For'.he pilgrim, forthe o befl: out of thy flail,
Loke up on high, and thanke thy God of all,
Wcivith thy luile and let thy gholl the lede.
And trouthe the fhall delivir, it 'is no drede.
here

1

be Jmali,

is

have the taught divifion bctwene
Frende of effcde, and frende of countinaunce.
The nedith not the galle of an hine.
That curith eyin derke for ther penaunce,
Now feeft thou clere that wcr in ignoraunce.
Yet holt thine anker, and thou maicfl arive
There bountie bereth the key of my fubftauncc,
And ckc thou hartc thy befte frende alive.
How many have I refufed to fuftene,
Sith I have the follrid in tliy pltfaunce ?
Wolt thou thcrn make a (latute on thy quene,
That I fhall be aie at thine ordinaoncc?
Thou born art in my reign of variaunce,
About the vi'hde with othir muft thou drive
My loie is bet, then wickc is thy grevaunce.
And ckc thou haft thy befte frende alive.
1

The anfwere to Fortune.
Thy lore I dampne, it is adverfitie.

My frcnd maill thou not revin blind goddefle,
Balade of the village without paintyng.

'T'

H S wrctchid world'is tranfmutacion

*•

As wcle and wo, nov/e pore, and now honour.

1

Without ordir cr due difcrecion
Govirnid is by fortun'is crrour.
But nathelefle the lacke of her favour
Nc male not doc me fyng though that I die,
mon labcur
J'ay tout perdu, mon temps
For finally fortune I doc defie.
Yet is me left the fight of my rcfoun

&

To knowin frende fro foe in thy mirrour.
So moche hath yet thy tournyng up and doun,
I taughtin me to knowin in an hour,
But truily no force of thy reddour
To hym that ovir hymfelf hath maiftrie,.

My fuffifaunce yflial be my fuccour.
For finally fortune I do defie.
O Socrates, ihou ftedfalt champion.
She nc might nevir be thy turmcntour.

Thou nevir dreddilt her oppreffion,

Ne in her chcrc foundin thou no favour,
Thou knewe wcle the difccipt of her colour.
And that her mofte worfliip is for to lie,
1

That I thy frendis knowe I thanke it the,
Take 'hem again, let 'hem go lie a preftc-.
The nigardis in kepyng ther richcfTe

knowe her eke a falfe dilTimulour.

Pronoftike

is

thou wolt ther toure afTailf,

Wicke appetite comcth aie before fickenclle.
In gcncrall this rule nc maie not failc.

Fortune.

Thou pinchift at my mutabilitie.
For I the lent a droppe of my richcfte.
And now me likith to withdrawin me.
Why fliouldirt thou my roialtie opprclle ?
The fe maie ebbe and fl>)win more and lefTc,
Thewclkin hath might to ftiine, rain, and haile.
Right fo muft I kithin my brotilnefti?.
In generall this rule ne maie not faile.

The PlaintiiTe.
Lo, the' execucion of the majcftie,
That all purveighith of his rightwifencfTe,
That fame thyng fortune yclcpin ye;

Ye blinde beftia full of leudenefs
The hevcn hath propirtie of fikirnefs.
This worldc hath evir reftlefTe travailc.

The laft dale is the ende of myne cntrcfTe,
In generall this rule nc maie not failc.

For finally fortune I do defie.

Th' cnvoye of Fortune.

The anfwerc of Fortune.

Princes I praie you of your gentilncfTe,
Let not this man and me thus crie and plain.

No man is wretchid but hymfelf it wene.
Me that yhaih hymfelf hath fuffifaunce.

And I fhall quitin you this bufinelTe,
And if ye lifte rcleve hym of his pain,

Why faiert thou then

Praie ye his bcft frende of his nobltnefTc

I

am to the fo kene,

1 hat hath ihyfclf out of my govirnaunce ?

1 hat to fome bettir ftate he maie attain.
Lydgsle

THE HISTORY OF THE
Lyigale was a rrtonk of 5«ry. who wrote about
Out of his prologue
the fame time with Chaucer.
to his third book of The Fall of Princes a few
(lanzas are fclefted, which, being compared with
the ftylcof his two contemporaries, will fhow that
our language was then not written by caprice, but

Whote, drye and wery, and may finde no bote
Of wel cold whan thruft doth hym aflayle.
Wine nor licour, that may to hym auayle.
Tight fo fare I which in my bufinefle,

this diverfyte.

No fuccour fynde my rudenes to redrefTe.

When Nembroth by Might, for his own Glorye,
made and incorporate the firft Realme, and lubduyd it to hymfelf by Tyrannye, he would not
have it governyd by any other Rule or Lawe,
but by his own Will
by which and for th' accomplifliment thereof he made it.
And therfor,
though he had thus made a Realme, holy Scripture
denyyd to cal hym a Kyng, ^da Rex dicitur a Re-

T IKE a pilgrime which that goeth on foote,
•*-*

And hath none horfe to releue his trauayle,

haue no frcfh licour
Out of the conduices of Calliope,
Nor through Clio in rhetorike no floure.
1

meane as thus,

I

In my labour for to refrefh me
Nor of the fufters in noumber thrife three.
Which with Cithera on Parnafo dwell,
They neuer me gaue drinke once of their wel.
Nor of theyr Ipringes clere and chriftaline,
:

'

;

To tame their tunnes with fome drop of plentie

^ende; Whych thyng he dyd not, but oppreflyd
the People by Myght, and therfor he was a Tyrant, and callid Primus Tyranmrum,
But holy
Writ callith hym Robuftus Venator coram Deo. For
as the Hunter takyth ttie wyld befte for to fcleand

For Foliphemus tTirow his great blindnes,

eatehymj fo Nembroth fubduyd to him the People

Hath in me derked of Argus the brightnes.
Our life here fliort of wit the great dulnes

with Might, to have their fervice and their goods,
ufing upon them the Lordfchip that is callid Domivium Regale tantum. After hym Bclus that was

That fprange by touchyng of the Pegafe,
Their fauour lacketh my making ten lumine
I

fynde theyr bawme of fo great fcarcitie.

The heuy foule troubled with trauayle.
And of memorye the glafyng brotelnes,

To ftoppe the paflagc, and Ihadow my reafon

and after hym his Sone Nynus,
and after hym other Panyms ; They, by Example
of Nembroth, made them Realmys, would not
have them rulyd by other Lawys than by their own
Wills.
Which Lawys ben right good under good
Princes; and theirKyngdoms a then moftrefemblyd
to the Kyngdome of God, which reynith upon Man,
rulyng iiim by hys own Will.
Wherfor many
Cryftyn Princes ufen the fame Lawe; and therfor it

That I might haue no clere direccion.
In tranflatinf^ of new to quicke me,

habet vigorem.

Stories to write of olde antiquite.

Realmy-s, Dominium tantum Regale.

Thus was I fet and ftode in double werre
At the metyng of fearefiil wayes tweyne.
The one was this, who cuer lift to lere,
"Whereas good wyll gan me conftrayne,

whan Mankynd was more manfuete, and better dif-

Drede and vncunning haue made a ftrong batail

With werines my fpirite to affayle.

And with their fubtil creping in mod queint
Hath made my fpirit in makyng for to feint.
And ouermore, the ferefull frowardnes
Of my ftepmother called obliuion.
Hath a baftyil of foryetfulnes,

Bochas taccomplifli for to doe my payne.
Came ignoraunce, with a menace of drede,
My penne to reft I durft not procedc.

Fortefcue was chief juftice of the

Common Plea's,

of king Henry W.
He retired in
after
the
battle
of
Tcwkefbury,
and pro1,
147
bably wrote mod of his works in his privacy.
The following pafla^e is fclectcd from his book
in

narch/.

TJYT may peraventure be marvelid by fome men,
*•• why one Realme is a Lordlhyp only Royally
and the Prynce thereof rulyth yt by his Law, callid
Jus Regale ; and another Kyngdome is a Lordfchip,
Royalland Polilike, and the Prince thereof rulyth by
a Lawe, callyd Jus Politicum^ Regale-, fythen thes
two Princes bcth of egail Aftate.
To this dowte it may be anfwcryd in this manner; The firft Inftitution of thes twoo Rcalmys,
upon the Incorporation of them, is the Caufe of

was in a fettled (late.

'

of the' Difference between an abfolute and limited Mo-

the reign

callid firft a Kyng,

is,

that the Lawys fay en,

^od Principi placuit Legis

And thus I fuppofe firft beganne in
But afterward,

pofyd to Vertue, Grete Communalties, as was the
that came into this Lond with Brute,
wyllyng to be unyed and made a Body Politike
callid a Realme, havyng an Heed to govcrne it ; as
after the Saying of the Philofophcr, every Communahie unyed of many parts muft needs have an
Heed ; than they chole the fame Brute to be their
Heed and Kyng. And they and he upon this Incorporation and Inftitution, and onyng of themfclf
into a Realme, ordeynyd the fame Realme fo to be
rulyd and juftyfyd by fuch Lawys, as they al would
aflcnt unto ; which Law therfur is callid Politicum;
and bycaufe it is mynyftrid by a Kyng, it is callid
Felifhip,

Regale.

\

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Dominium Poliiicum dicitur quafi Regimen,

dome beganne, of and by, the Might of the Prince,

flurium Scientia,Jive Confiiio tnimfiratum. The Kyng
of Scotts reyniih upon his People by this Lawc,
And as Diovidelicet, Regimine Politico fc? Regali.
dorus Syculus faith, in his Boke de prifcis Hijloriis,

and the other beganne, by the Defter and Inftitution of the People of the fame Prince.

The Realme of Egvpre is rulid by the fame Lawe,
and therfor the Kyng therof chaungith not his
Lawes, without the Aflent of his People. And in
like forme as he faith is ruled the Kyngdome of
Saba, in Felici Arabia, and the Lond of Libie;

to give a

Regale.

Of the works of Sir Thomas More it was necefTary

And alfo

the more parte of al the Realmys in
"Which
manner of Rule and Lordfljip, the
Afrike.
For
fayd Diodorus in that Boke, prayfith gretely.

not only good for the Prince, that may thereby
the more fewerly do Jurtice, than by his owne Arit is

bitriment ; but it is alfo good for his People that
receyve therby, fuch Jullice as they defyer themNow as me feymth, it ys fhewyd opinly
feif.

ynough, why one Kyng rulyth and re_ynith on his
People Dominio tantum Regali, and that other reynith Dominio Politico ^Regali: For that one Kyng-

larger fpecimcn, both becaufe our lan-

guage was then in a great degree formed and
fettled,
and becaufe it appears from Ben Jonjon,
that his works were confidered as models of pure
and elegant ftyle. The tale, which is placed firft»
becaufe earlicft written, will Ihow what an attentive reader will, in perufing our old writers, often

remark, that the familiar and colloquial part of
our language, being diffufed among thofe clafles
who had no ambition of refinement, lOr affedlation
of novelty, has fuHered very little change. There
is another reafon why the extrads from this author
are more copious
his works are carefully and correctly printed, and may therefore be better f ulled
than any other edition of the Engltjh books of that,
or the preceding ages.
:

A merry iefl how a fergeant would A man of lawe.

That thriftly was.

That neuer fawe.

Or he coulde pas,

The wayes to bye and fell,
Wenyng to ryfe.

Rapped about the pate,
Whyle that he would
See how he could,

Icarne to playe the frere. Written by maifter Thomas More in

hys youth.

"IXT'YSE men alway,
"
Affyrmc and fay.
That beft is for a man
Diligently,

For to apply,

The bufincs that he can.
And in no wyfe,

To enterpryfe.
An other faculte.
For he that wyll.
And can no fkyll.
Is

neuer lyke to the.

He that hath lafte.
The hofiers crafte.

And falleth to making fhone,
The fmythe that (hall,

To payntyng fall.
His thrift is well nigh done.

A blacke draper.
With whyte paper.

To goe to writyng fcole,"
An olde butler,
Becum a cutler,
I

wene fhall proue afole.

And an olde trot.
That can I wot,
Nothyng but kylTc the cup.

With her phifick,
Wil kepe on ficke,

By marchaundife,

A marchaunt eke.

A little play the frere
Now yf you wyll,

That wyll goo feke.
By all the meanes he may,

Knowe how it fyll,
Take hede and ye (hall here.

I

wi(h to fpede hym well,

:

To fall in fute,

It happed fo.

Tyll he difpute.

Not long ago,
A thrifty man there dyed.

His money cleane away,
Pletyng the lawe.

An hundred pounde.

For euery ftrawe.

Of nobles rounde.

Shall proue a thrifty man,

With bate and ftrifc,
But by my life,
I cannot tell you

whan.

Whan an hatter
Wyll go fmattcr
In philofophy.

Or a pedlar.
Ware a medlar.
In theology.

All that enfufc,

Suche craftes new.

They driue fo farre a caft,
That euermore.
They do therfore,
Befhrewe themfelfe at laft.
This thing^was tryed

And verefyed.
Here by a fergeaunt late.

That had he layd a fide
His fonne he wolde.
Should haue this golde.
For to beginne with all
But to fuffife
His chylde, well thrife.
That money was to fmal.
Yet or this day
1

have hard fay.

That many a man certefle,
Hath with good cafl,
Be ryche at laft.
That hath begonne with lefle.
But this yonge manne,
So well beganne,
His money to imploy.
That certainly.
His policy.

To fee it was a joy.

Tyll (he have foufed hym vp.

Vol. I.

[i]

For

THE HISTORY OF THE
For left fum blaft,

Myght ouer raft.
His (hip, or by mifchauncc,

Men with fum wile,
Myght hym begyle.
And mini(h his fubftaunce,
For to

put out.

Was redy ftrayte.
On him to wayte.

In many a game,
Lyke to the fame,

As fone as on the mayre.
But he doubtlefTe,

Haue I bene well in vre.
And for your fake.
Let me be bake.

Of his mckcnefrc.
Hated fuch pompc and pride.
And -would not go,
Companicd fo.

All mancr dout.

By his owne wyr,

And toke an other way

And for a day.

Strei^ as a line.

All his array.

He gate him at a tyde.

:

For deuocion.

Therof much dele.
He dygged it in a pot,
But then him thought.
That way was nought.

Or promocion.
There would he nedcs abyde.
There fpent he f^ft,
Till all were paft.

And to him came there meny.

And there he left it not.
So was he faine.

To afke theyr debt.

From thence agayne.

But none could get.

And by and by,

The valour of a peny.
With vifage ftout,

Couetoufly,

He bare it our,

it

in a cup.

He fupped it fayre vp.

Euen vnto the harde hedge,

his owne brcft.

A month or twaine,

He thought it bcft.

Tyll he was fayne.

In

His money to cnclofe,
Therv wift he well,
"What euer fell,
He coulde it neuer lofe.
He borrowed then,
Of other men,
Money and marchaundife
Neuer payd it.

Up he laid

To lay his gowne to pledge.
Than was he there.
In greater feare.

Than ere that he came thither.

And would as fayne.

So it were nyce.

As for the price.
Could him not mifcontent.

Hym for a frere deny.
He doppcd and dooked.
He fp>ike and looked.
So religioofly.
Yet in a glafle.
Or he would pafie.

He toted and he peered,'
His harte for pryde,
Lepte in his fyde.

To fee how well he freeied.
Than forth a pace.
Unto the place.
He goeth withouten ftiame
To do this dede.
But now take hede.
For here begynneth the game.
He drew hym ny.

And foftely,

Than after this.

And a damfeil,
That hard hym well.

Where as he lay.

He reight not what he fpent.

He chaunged with a frcre.
So was he dight,
That no man might,

Depart againe.
But that he wift not whither.

To a frende of his,
He went and there abode,

it.

In like maner wyfe.
Yet on the gere.
That he would were,'

A pace this officere.

To faint Kaiharin?,

Firft fayrc and wele,

To put

And foorth then goth,.

But drewe himfelf a fide.

He made a good puruay.
For euery whyt.

But yf I do this cure.

Thus part they both.

So fick alway.
He myght not come abrcde.
It happed than,
A marchaunt man.
That he ought money tro.

Streyght at the dore he knocked

There came and it vnlocked.

The frere fayd.
Good fpede fayre mayd.
Here lodgeth fuch a man,
It

is

told

me

:

Well fyr quod flie.
And yf he do what than.

"With lufty fporte,

Of an officere,

Qiiod he mayftrefTe,

And with rclort,
Of ioly company,

That gan enquere.

No harm doutieffe

What him was bcft to do.
And he anfwerde.

In mirth and play.
Full many a day.

you belicrte,

With hym truly,

I

Some man is borne.

I ftiall

He gat and fuche honour.
That without dour,
"Whan he went our,

^

A fergcaunt well and fayrc,

To liurt no man.
But as we can,
Euery wight to forder.

He liU'.d merely.
And men had fworne.

For fuch dcgrc,

:

longeth for our order.

Take an accion thcrfore,

Be not aferde.

To haue a lucky howre.
And fo was he.

It

hym rcfte.

And than carc for no more.

Fayne fpeake would I.
Sir quod flie by my fay.

I

feare qviod he.

He

It

wyll not be.

Ye be not lyke.
To fpeake with hym to day.

For he wyll not come out.

is

fo fike.

The fergc,!unt faid.

Qiiod he fayrc may.

Be not afra\d.

Yet I you prjy.

It ftiall be brought about.

This muclr at my defire,
Vcucliefafc

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Vouchefafe to do,
As go hym to.

And fay an auften frere
Would with hym Tpeke,
And matters breake.
For his auayle certayn.

Sayd,

I reft

the.

Come on with me.
And out he toke his mace
Thou (halt obay.
Come on thy way,
I have the in my douche.

:

The freres hood.
They pulled a good,
Adowne about his face.
Whyle he was blynde.
The wenche behynde.
Lent him leyd on'^he flore,

Quod fhe I wyll,

Thou goeft not hence.

M;'.ny a ioule.

Stonde ye here ftyll,
Tyll 1 come dovvne agayn.

For all the penfe
The mayre hath in his pouche.
This marchaunt there.
For wrath and fere,.
He waxyng welnygh wood,
Sayd horlbn thefe,

About the noule.
With a great batyldore.
The wyfe came yet.

Vp is (he go.
And told hym fo,
As fhe was bode to fay.

He miftruftyng,
No maner thyng,

And with her fete.
She holpe to kepe him downe.

And with her rocke.
Witli a mifchefc.
Many a knocke.
Who hach taught thee thy good. She gaue hym on the crowne.
Sayd mayden go thy way.
And with his filb,
They layd his mace.
And fetch him hyder.
Vpon the lyft,
That we togyder.
About his face.
May talk. A downe (he goth e. He gaue hym fuch a blow.
That he was wood for payne
That backward downe,
Vp fhe hym brought.
The fryre frappe,

No harme (he thought.
But it made fome foike wrothe,
This officere.
This fayned frere.
Whan he was come aloft,

He dopped than,

Almoft in fowne.

The frere is ouerthrow.
Yet was this man.
Well fearder than.
Left he the frere had flayne.
Till with good rappes.

Toke hym there by the hande.
The frere than fayd.

And heuy clappes.
He dawde hym vp agayne.
The frere toke harte.
And vp he ftarte.
And well he layde about,
And fo there goth,

Ye be difmayd.

Bctwene them both.

And grece this man,
Religioudy and oft.
And he agayn,

Ryght glad and fayn,

With trouble I underllande.
In dede quod he.
It hath with me,
Bene.better than it is.

Syr quod the frere.
Be of good cherr.

Yet (hall it after this.
But I would now,

Comen with you,
In counfayle yf you pleafe,
Or ellys nac

Of matters that.
Shall fet your heart at cafe.
Downe went the mayd.

The marchauni fayd.
No fay on gentle frere,

Many a lufty clout.

Gate many a fwappe,
Tyll he was full nygh flayne.

Vp they hym life.
And with yll thrift,
Hedlyng a long the ftayre,

Downe they hym threwe.
And fayde adewe,
Commcnde us to the mayre.
The frere arofe.
But I fuppofe,

Amafed was his hed.

He Pnoke his eares.
And from grcte feares.
He thought hym well yfled.

They rent and tcre,

Qiiod he now loft.

Eche others here.

Is all this coft.

And claue togyder faft,
Tyll with luggyng.
And with tuggyng.
They fell downe bothe at laft.
Than on the grounde,
Togyder rounde.
With many a fadde ftroke.
They roll and rumble.
They turne and tumble.
As pygges do in a poke.
So long aboue.
They heus and (houe,

We be neuer the nere.
Ill

mote he be.

That caufcd me.

To make my felf a frere.
Now mafters all.
Here now ftiall,
Ende there as I began.
I

In any wyfe,
would auyfe.
And counfayle euery man,

1

His owne craft vfe.

Of thys tydyng.
That ye me bryng,

The mayd and wyfc.

All newe rcfufe.
And lyghtly let them gone:
Play not the frere.

To breake the ftrife,

Now make good chere.

tong full fore to here.
Whan there was none,
But they alone,
The frere with cuyll gracp,

Hyed ihem vpward fafl-.
And whan they fpye,
The captaynes lye.

I

Togider that at laft.

And welcome euerych one.

Both wahring on the place.
[ij 2

A ruful

THE HISTORY OF THE
(writcn by maftcr Thomas
More in his youth) of the dcth of quene Elifa-

A ruful lamentacion

Farewell my doughter lady Margerete.
God wotce full oft it greucd huh my mynde,

beth mother to king Henry the eight, wife to

That ye fliould go where we fliould feldome metCt

king Henry the feucnth, and the cldeft doughter
to king Edward the fourih, which quene Elifabcth dyed in childbed in February in the yere of

Now am

our Lord 1503, and in the 18 yere of the raigne
of king Henry the feucnth.

/^ Y li that put your truft and confidence,
^^ In worldly ioy and frayle profperiie.
That fo lyue here as ye (hould neuer hence,
Remember death and loke here vppon me.
Enfaumple I thynke there may no better be.

Your felfc wottc well that in this realme was T,
Your quene but late, and lo now here I lye.

Was I not borne of olde worthy linage ?
Was not my mother quecne my father kyng ?
Was I not a kinges fere in marriage ?
Had not plenty of euery plcafaunt thyng ?
I

Mercifull god this is a ftraunge reckenyng
Rychcffc-, honour, welth, and aunceftry.
Hath me forfaken and lo now here I ly.
If worfhip myght haue kept me, I had not gone.
If wyt myght haue me faued, I neded not fere.
If money myght haue holpe, I lacked none.
good God what vayleth all this gere.
But

O

When dtth is come thy mighty mefTangcre,
Obey we muft there is no remedy.
Me hath he fommoned, and lo now here I ly.
Yet was I late promifed otherwyfe.
This yere to liue in welth and delice.
Lo where to commeth thy blandifhyng promyfe,
O falfe aftrolagy and deuynatrice.
Of goddes fecretes makyng thy felfe fo wyfe.

How true is for this yere thy prophecy.

1

gone, and haue left you behynde.

O

mortall folke that we be very blyndc.
That we leaft feare, full oft it is moft nyc.

From you depart I fyrft, and lo now here I ly.
Farewell Madame my lordes worthy mother.

Comfort your fonne, and be ye of good chere.
Take all a worth, for it will be no nother.
Farewell my doughter Katherine late the fere,
To prince Arthur myne owne chyld fo dere.
It booteth not for me to wepe or cry.

Pray for my foule, for lo now here I ly.
Adew lord Henry my louyng fonne adew.
Our lorde encreafe your honour and eftate,
Adew my doughter Mary bright of hew,
God make you vertuous wyfe and fortunate.
Adew fwete hart my litle doughter Kate,
Thou (halt fwete babe fuche is thy defteny.
Thy mother neuer know, for lo now here I ly.
Lady Cicyly Anne and Katheryne,
Farewell my welbeloved fillers three,
lady Briget other fifter myne,

Lo here thcende of worldly vanitee.

Now well are ye that earthly foly fiee.
And heuenly thynges loue and magnify.
Farewell and pray for me, for lo now here I ly,

A dew my lordes, a dew my ladies all,

A dew my faithful feruauntes euerych one,
A dew my commons whom neuer
1

fliall,

See in this world wherfore to the alone.
Immortal! god verely three and one,
Thy infinite mercy.
1 me conimende.
Shew to thy feruant, for lo now here I ly.

The yere yet lafteth, and lo now here I ly.

O bryttil welth, as full of bitternefle.
Thy fingle pleafure doubled is with payne.
Account my forow firft and my diftrefTe,
In fondry wyfe, and recken there agayne.
The ioy that I haue had, and I dare fayne.

For all my honour, endured yet haue ly,

More wo than welth, and lo now here 1 ly.
Where are our cartels, now where are our towers.
Goodly Rychmonde foiie arc thi)U gone from me,
Al Weftminfter that coftly worke of yours,

Myne owne derc lorde now (hall I neuer fee.
Almighty god vouchefafe to graunt that ye.
For you and your children well may edety.
My paly.e bylded is, and lo now here I ly.
Adew myne owne dcre fpoufe my worthy lorde,
The faithfull loue, that dyd vs both combyne.
In mariagc and peafable concorde.
Into your han.ies here 1 clcane refyne.
To be beftowed vppon your children and myne.
Erft wer you father, and now muft ye fupply.

The mothers part alfo, for lo now here 1 ly.

Certain meters in Englilh written by mafter Thomas
More in hys youth for the boke of fortune, and
caufed them to be printed in the begynnyng of
that boke.

The wordes of Fortune to the people.
TV/TINE high eftate power and audtoritie,
^ * If \e ne know, enferche and ye (hall fpye.
That riche{re, worfhip, welth, and dignirie,
Joy, reft, and peace, and all thyng fynally.
That any pleafure or profit may come by.
To mannes comfort, ayde, and fuftinaunce.
Is all at my deuyfe and ordinaunce.
Without my fauour there is nothyng wonne.
Many a matter haue I brought at laft,
To good conckifion, that fondly was begonne.
And many a purpofe, bounden fure and taft
With wife prouifion, I haue ouercaft.

Without good happe there may no wit fufEfe.
Better is to be fortunate than wyfe.

And

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
And therefore hath there fome men bene or this.

My deadly foes and written many a boke.
To my diiprayfe.

And other caufe there nys.

But for me hft not fiendly on them loke.
Thus lyke the fox they fare that once iorfoke,
The pleafaunt grapes, and gan for to defy them,
Becaufe he Icpt and yet could not come by them.
But let them write thcyr labour is in vayne.
For well ye wote, myrth, honour, and ticheffe.
Much better is than penury and payne.
The nedy wretch that iihgereth in diftrefle.

Without myne helpe is euer comfortlefle,

A wery burden odious and loth.
To all the world, and eke to him felfe both.
But he that by my fauour may afcende.
To mighty power and excellent degree,
A common wele to gouerne and dcfendc,
O in how blift condition ftandeth he:
Him felf in honour and fclicite,
And ouer that, may forther and increafe,

A region hole in ioyfull reft and peace.
Now in this poynt there is no more to fay,
Eche man hath of him fclf the gouernaunce.
Let euery wight than folowe his owne way.

Amyd her treafure and waueryng rychefle,
Prowdly ftie houeth as lady and emprefic.
Faft by her fyde doth wery labour ftand.
Pale fere alfo, and forow all bewept,
Difdayn and hatred on the other hand.
Eke reftles watchefro flepe with trauayle kept.
His eyes drowfy and lokyng as he flept.
Before her ftandeth daunger and enuy.
Flattery, dyfceyt, mifchitfe and tiranny.

About her commeth all the world to begge.

He afl<e:h lande, and he to pas would bryng.
This toye and that, and all not worth an cgge:
He would in loue profper aboue all thyng:
He kneleth downe and would be made a kyng:

He forceth not fo he may money haue,
Though all the worlde accompt hym for a knauc.

Lo thus ye fee diucrs heddes, diuers wittes.
Fortune alone as diuers as they all,
Vnftable here and there among them flittesr

And at auenture downe her giftcs fall.
Catch who fo may ftie throweth great and fmall
Not to all men, as commeth fonne or dewe.
But for the moft part, all among a fewe.

And yet her brotell giftes long may not laft.

And he that out of pouertee and mifchaunce.

He that ftiegaue them, loketh prowde and hyc.

Lift for to liue, and wyll him fclfe cnhaunce.

She whirlth about and pluckth away as faft.
And geueth them to an other by and by.
And thus from man to man continually.
She vfeth to geue and take, and flily tofle.

In wealth and richefle,

come forth and wayie on

me.

And he that wyll be a beggar, let hym be.
Thomas More to them that truft in Fortune.

One man to wynnyng of an others lofte.
And when ftie robbeth one, down goth his pryde.

With freftj apparyle garnilhed out of meafure.

He wepeth and wayleth and curfeth her full fore.
But he that receueth it, on that other fyde.
Is glad, and blefth her often tymes therefore.
But in a whyle when ftie loueth hym no more»
She glydeth from hym, and her giftes to.

And weneft to haue fortune at thy plcafure,

And he her curfeth, as other fooles do.

'T'HOU that art prowde of honour (hape or kynne,
"*•

That hepeft vp this wretched worldes treafure.

Thy fingers ftirined with gold, thy tawny fkynne.
Caft vp thyne eye, and loke how flipper chaunce,

Alas the folyfti people can not ceafe,

llludeth her men with chaunge and varyaunce.

Ne voyd her trayne, tyll they the harme do fele.

Sometyme ftie lokcth as louely fayre and bright,
As goodly Ucnus mother of Cupydc.

About her alway, befely they preace.
But lord how he doth thynk hym felf full wele.
That may fct once his hande vppon her whele.

She becketh and ftie fmileth on eucry wight.
But this chere fayned, may not long abide.
There comcth a cloude, and farewell all our pryde.

Like any ferpcnt ftie beginneth to fwell.

And looketh as fierce as any fury of hell.
Yet for all that we brotle men are fayne,

He holdeth faft: but vpward as he flieth.
She whippeth her whele about, and there he lyeth.
Thus fell Julius from his mighty power.
Thus fell Darius the worthy kyng of Perfe.
Thus fell Alexander the great conquerour.

(So wretched is our nature and fo blynde)
As foone as Fortune lift to laugh agayne,
With fayre countenaunce and difceitfull mynde.
To crouche and knele and gape after the wynde.
Not one or twayne but thoufandes in a rout,

Thus many mo then I may well reherfe.
Thus double fortune, when flie lyft reuerfe
Her flipper fauour fro them that in her truft.

Lyke fwarmyng bees come flickeryng her aboute.
Then as a bayte ftie bryngeth forth her ware,

And fodeynly mifcheueth all the flocke.

Siluer, gold, riche perle, and precious ftone;

In ftede of pylows lyeth after on the blocke.

On whiche the mated people gafe and ftare.

And yet alas the moft crucll proude mocker

And gape therefore, as dogges doe for the bone,

1 he deynty mowth that ladyes kifled haue.

l^criune ac them laughctb, and in her trone

She bryngeth in the cafe to kyCfe a knaue.

She fieeth her wey and leyeth them in the duft.
She fodeinly enhaunceth them aloft.

The head that late lay eafily and full loft.

In

THE HISTORY OF THE
In chaungyngof her courfe, the chaunge {hcwth
tRis,

Vp ftartth a knaue, and downe there faith a knight,
The beggar ryche, and the ryche man pore is.
Hatred is turned to loue, loue to defpyght.
This is her fporr, thus proueth fhe her myght.
Great bode flie maketh yf one be by her pov/cr,
Wclthy and wretched both within an howre.
I'oucrtec that of her giftcs wyl nothing take,

"Wyth mery chere, looketh vppon the prece.

Recken you neuer of her fauoure fure:

Ye may in clowds as eafily trace an hare.
Or in drye lande caufe fiflies to endure.
And make the burnyng fyrc his hcate to fpare.
And all thys worlde in compace to forfare,
As her to make by craft or engine (lable.
That of her nature is euer variable.
Serue her day and nyght as reuerently,

Vppon thy knees as any feru^unt may.

And in conclufion, that thou flialt winne thereby

And feeth how fortunes houlhold goeth to wrake.

Shall not be worth thy fervyce I dare fay.

Faft by her ftandeth the wyfe Socrates,
Arriftippus, Pythagoras, and many a Icfe,
Of olde philofophcrs. And eke agaynft the fonnc
Btrkyth hym poors Diogenes in his tonne.
With her is Byas, whofe countrey lackt defence,
And whylom of their foes ftode fo in dout.
That eche man hartely gan to cary thence.
And afked hym why he nought caryed out.
1 bere quod he all myne with me about:
Wiledom he ment, not fortunes brotle fees.
For nought he counted his that he might leefe.
Heraclitus eke, lyft felowfliip to kepe
With glad pouertee, Democritus alio:
Of which the fyrfl: can neuer ceafe but wepe,
To fee how thick the blynded people go,
"With labour great to purchafe care and wo.
That other laughcth to fee the foolyfh apes,
How earneftly they walk about theyr capes.
Of this poore fcft, it is comen vfage,
Onely to take that nature may foftayne,
Binilhing cleane all other furplufage.
They be content, and of nothyng complayne.
No nygarde eke is of his good lo fayne.
But they more ple^fure haue a thoufande folde,
'1 he i'ecrete draughtes of nature to beholde.
Set fortunes lervauntes by them and ye wull,
Ti.at one is free, that other euer thrall.
That one content, that other neuer full,
'I'hat one in furetye, that other lyke to fall.
"Who lyrt to adiiile them bothe, parceyue he (hall.

And looke yet what Ihe geueth the lo day.

As great difference between them as we fee,
Betv.ixte wretchcdnes and fciicite.

With labour wonne (he (hall happly to morow
Plucke it agayne out of thyne hand with forow.
Wherefore yf thou in furetye lyft to ftande.
Take pouerties parte and let prowde fortune go-,
Receyue nothyng that commeth from her hande.
Loue maner and vertue: they be onely tho.
Whiche double fortune may not take the fro.
Then may ft th6u boldly defye her turnyng chaunce
She can the neyther hynder nor auaunce.
But and thou wylt nedes medie with her treafure/
Truft not therein, and fpende it liberally.
-Beare the not proude, nor take not out of meafure.

Bylde not thyne houfe on heyth vp in the (kye.
Nonne falleth farre, but he that climbeth hye.

Remember nature fent the hyther bare.
The gyftes of fortune count them borowed ware.

Thomas More to them that fcke Fortune.

WHO

\

{o delyteth to

prouen and aCfay,

Of waveryng fortune the vncertayne lot,

If that the aunfwere pleafe you not alway.
for I commaunde you nor.
Fortune to truft, and eke full well ye vvor,
I haue of her no brydle in my lift,
She rcnneth loofe, and turnetn where (lie lyft.
TheroUyngdyfe inwhomeyourluckedothltande.
With whole vnhappy chaunce ye be fo wroth.
Ye knowe your felfe came neuer in myne hande.
Lo in rjiis ponde be fydie and frogges both.
Caft in your nette
but be you liefe or lotiie.
Hold you content as fortune lyft ailyne:
For it is your owne fylhyng and not myne.
And though in one chaunce fortune you oftcnd.

Blame ye not tne:

:

No.ve haue I fhewed you bothe: thefe whiche ye
lyft.

Stately fortune, or humble poucrtec:

That is to fay, nowe lyeth it in your fyft.

To take here bondag'e, or free liberiee.
But in thys poynte and ye do after me,
Dr.iw you to fortune, and labour her to pleafe,
If that ye thynke your fclfe to well at eafe.

Grudge not there at, but beare a mery face.
In many an other Ihe (hall it amende.
There is no manne fo farre out of her grace.
But he Ibmetyme hath comfort and folace:

Ne none agayne fo farre foorth in her fauour.

And fyrft vppon the louely (hall (he fmile,
And frcndlv on the caft her wandering eyes

That is full fatisfyed with her behauiour.

Embrace the in her armes, and for a whyle,
Put the and kepe the in a foolcs paradifc:

And rychelTe geueth, to haue feruyce therefore.
The nedy begger catcheth an halfpeny.

And foorth with all whit fo thou lyft deuife.

Some manne a thoufande pounde, fome lefie feme

She wyll the graunt it liberally perhappes
But for all that beware of after clappcs.

But for all chat (he kepcth euer in (lore.

:

Fortune is llately, folemne, prowde, and hye:

more.

From

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
From euery manne fome parcell of his wyl!.
That he may pray therfore and ferue her ftyll.
Some manne hath good, but-chyldren hath he
none.
Some manne hath both, but he can get none health.
Some hath al thre, but vp to honours trone,

Can he not crepe, by no maner of ftelth.
'J"o fome

fhe fendt-ih, children, ryches, welthe.

Honour, woorfhyp, and reuerence all hys lyfe:
But yet fhe pynchech hym with a fhrewde wyfe.
Then for afmuch as it is fortunes guyfe.
To graunt to manne all thyng that he wyll axe.
But as her felfe lyft order and deuyfe,
Toth eucry manne his parte diuide and tax,
1 counlayle you eche one trufTe vp your packes.
And take no thyng at all, or be content.

With fnche rcvvarde as fortune hath you fent.
All thynges in this boke that ye fhall rede.

Doe as ye lyft, there Jhall no manne you bynde.

Them to beleue, as furely as your crede.
But notwithltandyng certes in my mynde,
I

durft well fwere, as true ye (hall

them fynde.

In euery poynt eche anfwere by and by.
As are the iudgementes of aftronomye.

The Defcripcion of Richard the thirde.

ICHARDE the third fonne, of whom we
R' nowe entrcate, was witte and courige egall
in

bodye and prowefle farre
vnder them bothe, little of ftature, ill fetured of
limmes, croke backed, his left (boulder much
higher than his right, hard fauoured of vifage, and
with cither of ihem,

in

fuch as is in ftates called warlye, in other menne
otherwife, he was malicious, wrathfull, cnuious,
and from afore his binh, euer frowarde. It is for
trouth reported, that the duches his mother had fo
much a doe in her trauaile: that fhee coulde not
bre deliuered of hym vncutte, and that he came
into the world with the feete forwarde, as menne
bee borne outwarde, and (as the fame runneth) alfo
not vntothed, whither menne of hatred reporte

aboue the trouthe, or elles that nature chaungcd
her courfe in hys beginninge, whiche in the courfe
of his lyfe many thinges vnnaturallye committed.
None euill captaine was hce in the warre, as to
whiche his difpoficion was more metcly then for
Sundrye viftories hadde hee, and fommepeace.
time ouerthrowes, but neuer in defaulte as for his

owne parfone, either of hardineffe or polytike order,
free was hee called of dyfpence, and fommcwhat
aboue hys power liberall, with large giftes hee get
him vnftedfarte frendelhippe, for whiche hee was
fain to pil and fpoyle in other places, and get him
p...u a t-ijtrt-d, Hee was dole and
fecrete, a deepe
<

T, lowlye of'couiiteynaunce, arrogant

of

heart, outwardly coumpinable where he inwardf ly

hated, not letting to kifle whome he thoughte to
k\l!: difpitious and crucll, not for euill will alway,

but after for ainbicion, and either for the I'uretie arvd
Frende and foo was muche
what indificrent, where his aduauntage grew, he
fpared no mans deathe, whofe life withltoode his
purpofe.
He flewe with his owne handes king
Henry the fixt, being piiloner in the Tower, as
menne ccnftantly fayc, and that without commaundemcnt or knoweledge of the king, whiche
woulde vndoubtedly yf he had entended thatthinge^
haue appointed that boocherly office, to foirie other
then his owne borne brother.
Somme wife menne alfo weene, that his drift
couertly conuayde, lacked not in helping furth his
brother of Clarence to his death: whiche hee refifted
openly, howbcit fomwhat (as menne deme) more
faintly then he that wer hartely minded to his
welth.
And they that thus dcnic, think that he
long time in king Edwardes life, forethought to be
king in that cafe the king his brother (whole life
hee looked that euil dyete Ihoulde (horten) flioulde
happen to deceafe (as in dede he did) while his
children wer yonge. And thci deme, that for thys
intente he was gladde of his brothers death the
duke of Clarence, whofe life muft nedes haue hindered hym (o entendynge, whither the fame duke
of Clarence hadde kepte him, true to his nephew
the yonge king, or enterprifed to be kyng himfelfe.
But of al this pointe, is there no certain tie,
and whofo diuineih vppon conicdhures, maye as wel
encreafe of his eftate.

to farre as to fliort.
Howbcit this h -ue I by
credible informacion learned, that the felfe nighte
fliote

in whiche kynge Edwarde died, one Myftlebrooke
longe ere mornynge, came in greate hafte to the
houle of one Pottyer dwellyng in Reddecroffe ftrete
without Crepulgate and when he was with haftye
rappyng quickly Ictten in, hee fhcwed vnto P?ttyer
that kynge Edwarde was departed. By my trouthe
mjfhne quod Pettier then wyll my mayfter the duke
of Gloucefter bee kynge. What caufe hee hailde foo
to thynke hirde it is to faye, whyther hce being toward him, anye thynge knewe that hee fuche tnynge
purpofed, or otherwyfe had anye inkclyngc thereof:
for hce was not likelye to fpeake it of noughte.
But nowe to recurne to the courfe of this hyftorye,
were it that the duke of Gloucefter hadde of old
fore-minded this conclufion, or was nowe at erfte
thereunto moued, and putte in hope by the occafion of the tender age of the younge princes, his
nephues (as opportunitye and lykcly hoode of fpede,
putteth a manne in cdurage of -that hee neuer entended) certayn is it that hee contriued theyr deftruccion, with the vfurpacion of the regal digAnd for as muche as hee
nitye vppon hymfelfe.
well wifte and holpe to mayntayn, a long continued
grudge and hearce brennyngc bccwcnc the quenes
kinrpd
5
:

'THE

HISTORY OF THE

kinred and the kinges blood eyther partye enuying
others authorityc, he nowe thought that their dcuifion ihoulde bee (as it was in dcdc) a fortherlye

begynnynge to the purfuite of his intente, and a
lure ground for the foundacion of al his building
yf he might firlle vnder the pretext of reucngynge
of olde diipleafure, abufe the anger and ygnorauncc
of the tone partie, to the deftruccion of the tother:
and then vvynne to this purpofe as manye as he
coulde: and thofe that coulde not be wonne, myght
be lode ere they looked therefore. For of one
thynge was hee certayne, that if his entente were
perceiued, he fhold loone haue made peace beetwene the bothe parties, with his owne bloude.

Kyngc Edwarde in his life, albeit that this diffommewhat yrked
hym yet in his good healthe he fommewhat the

cencion beetwene hys frendes
:

regarded it, becaufe hee thought whatfocuer
bufines fliouldc falle betwene them, hymfelfe
Ihould alwaye bee hable to rule bothe the parties.
But in his laft ficknefie, when hee receiued his
natural! ftrengthe foo fore cnfebled, that hee dyfpayred all recouerye, then hee confyderynge the
Icflc

youthe of his chyldren,

albeit hee nothynge lefle

miftrufted then that that happened, yet well forfcynge that manye harmes myghtc growe by theyr

debate, whyle the youth of hys children ihoulde
lackc difcrecion of themfclf, and good counfayle of
their frendes, of whiche either party (hold counfayle for their owne commodity and rather byplea-

faunte aduyfe toowynne themfelfe fauour, then by
profitable aduertifemente to do the children good,

he called fome of them before him that were at
variaunce, and in efpecyall the lorde marques Dorfette the quenes fonne by her fyrlle houfebande,
and Richarde the lorde Haftynges, a noble man,
than lorde chaumberlayne agayne whome the quene
fpecially grudged, for the great fauoure the kyng
bare hym, and alio for that ihee thoughte hym fecretclye familyer with the kyngc in wanton coomHer kynred alio bare hym fore, as well
panye.
for that the kynge hadde made hym captayne of
Calyce (whiche oflke the lorde Ryuers, brother to
the quene, claimed of the kinges former promyfe)
as for diuerfe other great giftes whiche hee receyued,

\Vhen thefe lordes with diueiTc other of bothe the parties were comaie in
prefence, the kynge liftinge vppe himfelfe and
vnderfettc with pillowcs, as it is reported on this
that they loked for.

warrc ere their difcrecion woulde ferue to
Ye fee their youthe, of whiche
I recken the onely furetie to refte in youre concord.
For it fuffifeth not that al you loue them,
yf eche of you hate other.
If they wer menne,
But
your faithfulneffe happelye woulde fuflife.
childehood mull be maintained by mens authoritye,
and flipper youth vnderpropped with elder counfayle, which neither they can haue, but ye geue it,
For wher eche lanor ye geue it, yf ye gree not.
boureth to breake that the other maketh, and for
hatred of eche of others parfon, impugneth eche
others counfayle, there muft it nedes bee long ere
anye good conclufion goe forwarde. And alfo
while either partye laboureth to be chiefe, flattery
(hall haue more place then plaine and faithful! aduyfe, of whyche mufte needes enfue the euyll bringing vppe of the prynce, whofe mynd in tender
youth infedl, (hal redily fal to mifchief and riot, and
drawe down with this noble relme to ruine: but if
grace turn him to wifdom, which if God fend,
then thei that by euill menes before pleafed him
beft, (hal after fall fartheft out of fauour, fo that
cuer at length euil driftes dreue to nought, and
good plain wayes profper. Great variaunce hath
ther long bene betwene you, not alway for great
caufes. Sometime a thing right wel intended, our
mifconftruccion turneth vnto worfe or a fmal difpleafure done vs, eyther our owne affeccion or euil
tongues agreueth. But this wote I well ye neucr
had fo great caufe of hatred, as ye have of loue.
That we be al men, that we be chrillen men, this
(hall I leave for prechers to tel you (and yet 1 wote
nere whither any prechers wordes ought more to
nioue you, then his that is by and by gooyng to
the place that thei all preache of.)
But this (hal I
defire you to remember, that the one parte of you
is of my bloode, the other of myne alies, and eche
of yow with other, eyther of kinred or afhnitie,
which fpirytuall kynred of affynyty, if the facramentes of Chriftes churche, beare that weyghte

felfe at

fette you at peace.

Godde thei did, flioulde no
moue vs to charitye, then the refpeifle of
fleihlye confanguinitye. Oure Lorde forbydde, that
with vs that would

IcfTe

you loue together the worfe, for the felfe caufe that
you ought to loue the better. And yet that hapAnd no where fynde wee fo deadlye depcneth.
bate, as amonge them, whyche by nature and lawe
moltc oughte to agree together. Such a peftilcntc
ferpente is ambicion and defyre of vainc glorye and
foueraintye, whiche amonge ftatcs where he once

wyfe fayd vnto them, My iordcs, my dere kinfmenne and alies, in what plighte I lye you fee, and
By whiche the lelTc whyle I lookc to
I feele.

entreth crepeth foorth fo farre,

lyue with you, the more depelye am I moued to
care in what cafe I leaue you, for fuch as 1 leauve
you, fuche bee my children lyke to fynde you.
"Whiche if they (houlde (that Godde forbydde)
fynde you at varyaunce, myght happe to fall thtm-

and variaunce hee turneth all to mifchiefe. Firfte
longing to be nexte the befl, aftcrwarde egall with
the belle, and at lafte chiefe and aboue the befte.
Of which immoderate appetite of woorfliip, and
thereby of debate and diflencion what lofle, what

tyll

with deuifion

Ibrowe,

ENGLISH LANGUA^^
forowe, what trouble hathe within thefe feweyeares
growen in this realme, I praye Godde as wel forgeate as wee wel remember.

Adioyned wer there vnto him other of
the fame partie, and in effcft euery one as he was
nereft of kin vnto the quene, fo was planted next
counfaylc

Whiche thinges yf coulde as wel haue forefene,

about the prince.

as I haue with my more payne then pleafure proucd,
by Goddes bleffed Ladk (that was euer his bthe)

vnvvifely deuifed,

I

woulde neuer haue won the courtefye of mennes
knees, with the lofle of foo many heades. But fithen
thynges pafled cannot be gaine called, muche oughte
wee the more beware, by what occafion we haue
1

taken foo greate hurte afore, that we eftefoones fall
not m that occafion agayne. Nowe be thofe griefes
pafled, and all is (Godde be thanked) quiete, and
Jikelie righte wel to profper in wealthfull peace
vnder youre cofeyns my children, if Godde fende

them life and you loue. Of whiche twoo thinges,
the lefTe lofle wer they by whome thoughe Godde
dydde hys pleafure, yet fhoulde the realme alway
finde kinges and paraducnture as good kinges. But
yf you among your felfe in a childcs reygne fall at
debate, many a good man fhall perifli and happcly
he to, and ye to, ere thys land finde peace again.
VVherfore in thefe lafl: wordes that euer 1 looke to
fpeak with you
1 exhort you and require you al,
for the loue that you haue euer borne to me, for
the loue that I haue euer borne to you, for the loue
that our Lord beareth to vs all, from this time forwarde, all grieues forgotten, eche of you loue
other. Whiche I verelye trufte you will, if ye any
thing earthly regard, either Godde or your king,
affinitie or kinrcd, this realme, your owne countrey, or your owne furcty.
And therewithal the
king no longer enduring to fitte vp, laide him
down on his right fide, his face towarde them: and
none was there prefent that coulde refrain from
weping. But the lordcs recomforting him with as
good wordes as they could, and anfwcring for the
time as thei thought to ftand with his pleafure,
there in his prefence (as by their wordes appercd)
eche forgaue other, and ioyned their hands together, when (as it after appeared by their dedes)
their hearcs wer far a fonder.
As fone as the king
was departed, the noble prince his fonne drew toward London, which at the time of his deceafe,
kept his houfliold at Ludlow in Wales.
Which
countrey being far of from the law and recourfe to
iuftice, was begon to be farre cute of good wyll
and waxen wild, robbers and riucrs walking at libcrtic vncorreded.
And for this encheafon the
prince was in the life of his father fcnte thither, to
the cnde that the authoritie of his prefence fliould
refraine euill difpofed parfons fro the holdnes of
their former outerages, to the gouernaunce and ordering of this yong prince at his fending thyther,
was there appointed Sir Anthony Woduile lord
Kiucrs and brother vnto the quene, a right honourable man, as valiaunte of hande as politike in
Vol. 1.
:

E.

That drifte by the quene not
whereby her bloode mighte of

youth be rooted in the princes fauour, the duke of
Gloucefler turned vnto their defl:ruccion, and vpon
that groLinde fet the foundacion of all his vnhappy
building.
For whom foeuer he perceiued, either
at variance wi?h them, or bearing himfelf their fauor,
hee brake vnto them, forne by mouth, fom by
writing or fecret melfengers, that it neyther was
reafon nor in any wife to be fuffered, that the yong
king their mafl:cr and kinfmanne, (hoold bee in the
handcs and cuftodye of his mothers kinred, fequefl:red in maner from theyr compani and attendance, of which eueri one ought him as faithful fcruice as they, and manye of them far more
honorable part of kin then his mothers fide
whofe blood (quod he) fauing the kinges pleafure,
was ful vnmetely to be matched with his; whiche
nowe to be as who fay remoued from the kyng,
and the leflTe noble to be left aboute him, is (quod
he) neither honorable to hys magefl:ie, nor vnto
V5, and alfo to his grace no furety to haue the
niightieftof his frendes from him, and vnto vs no
little ieopardy,

to fuffer our welproued cuil willers,

to grow in ouergret authoritie with the prince in

youth, namely which
perfvvadcd.

is

lighte of beliefe and fone

Ye remember 1 trow king Edward

himfelf, albeit he was a manne of age and of difcrecion, yet was he in manye thynges ruled by the

bende, more then (lode cither with his honour, or
our profite, or with the commoditie of any manne
els, except onely the immoderate aduauncemcnt of
them felfc.
Whiche whither they forer thidled
after their owne weale, or our woe, it wer hard I
wene to geflJe. And if fome folkes frendfliip had
not holden better place with the king, then any refpe6b of kinred, thei might peraduenture eafily
haue be trapped and brought to confufion fomme
of vs ere this.
Why not as eafily as they haue
done fome other alreadye, as neere of his royal
bloode as we. But our Lord hath wrought his wil,
and thanke be to his grace that peril is paite. Howe
be it as great is growing, yf wee fuffer this yonge
kyng in oure enemyes hande, whiche without his
wyttyng, might abufe the name of histommaundement, to ani of our vndoing, which thyng God
and good prouifion forbyd.
Of which good prouifion none of vs hath any thing the lefl"e ncde, for
the late made attonemente, in whiche the kinges
pleafure hadde more place then the parties wilies.
Nor none of vs I beleue is fo vnwyfe, oucrfone to
trufte a newe frende made of an olde foe, or to
think that an houerly kindnes, fodainely contradl in
one houre continued, yet fcant a fortnight, Ihold
be
Lk]

THE HISTORY OF THE
be df per fetlcd in their ftomackcs : then a long
accuflomed malice many yercs rooted.
With thefe wordes and writynges and fuche other,
the duke of Gloucefter lone fet a fyre, them that
were of thcmfclf cihe to kindle, and in efpeciall
twayne, Edwardc duke of Buckingham, and Richarde lordc Haftinges and chaumbcrlayn, both men
of honour and of great power. The cone by longe
fucceflion from his anceftrie, the tother by his office
and the kinges fauor. Thefe two n^Jyearing cche
to other fo

muchc loue, as hatred bothe vnto the

quenes parte

:

in

this

poynte accorded together
that they wolde

wyth the duke of Gloacefter,
vtterlye

amoue fro the kinges companye, all

his

mothers frendes, vnde'rthe name of their enemycs.
Vpon this concluded, the duke of Gloucefter vnderftandyng, that the lordes whiche at that tyme were
aboute the kyng, entended to bryng him vppe to
his coronacion, accoumpanied with fuchc power of
theyr frendes, that ic fhoulde bee harde for hym to
brynge his purpofe to paflc, without the gathering
and great aflemble of people and in maner of open
warre, whereof the ende he wide was doubtous,
and in which the kyng being on their fide, his part
fhould haue the face and name of a rebellion: he
fecretly therefore by diuers meanes, caufed the
quene to be perfwaded and brought in the mynd,
that it neither wcr nede, and alfo fhold be ieopardFor where as
ous, the king to come vp ftrong.
nowe euery lorde loued other, and none other thing
ftudyed vppon, but aboute the coronacion and hoif the lordes of her kinred
noure of the king
:

(hold aflemble in the kinges

name muche people,

geue the lordes atwixte

whome and

them haddc bene fommetyme debate,

to fcare and

thei Ihould

fufpedle, Icfte they fhoulde gather thys people, not

for the kynges faucgarde whome no manne empugned, but for theyr dcftruccion, hauying more

rcgarde to their old variaunce, then their newe attonement. For whiche caufe thei fhoulde aflemble
on the other partie muche people agayne for their
defence, whofe power (he wyfte wel farre ftretched.
And thus (hould all the realme fall on a rore. And
of al the hurte that therof fhould enfue, which was
likely not to be litle, and the moft harme there like
to fal wher (he left would, al the worlde woulde
put her and her kinred in the wyght, and fay that
thei had vnwyfelye and vntrewlye alfo, broken the
amitie and peace that the kyng her hufband fo prudenttlye made, betwene hyskinne and hers in his
death bed, and whiche the other party faithfully
obferucd.
The quene being in this wife perfwaded, fuche
woorde lent vnto her fonne, and vnto her brother
being aboute the kynge, and ouer that the duke of
Gloucefter hymltlfe and other lordes the chiefe of
hys bende, wrote vnto the kyhge foo rcuercntlye.

and to the queenes frendes there foo louyngelye,
that they nothyngeearthelye my ftruftynge, broughtc
the kynge vppe in greate hafte, not in good fpede,
Nowe was the king in
with a fober coumpanye.
his waye to London gone, from Northampton,
when thefe dukes of Gloucefter and Buckynghann
came thither. Where remained behynd, the lordc
Riuers the kynges vncle, entendyng on the morowe to folow the kynge, and bee with hym at
miles thence, earcly or
Stonye Stratford
hee departed. So was there made that nyghte
muche frendely chere betwene thefe dukes and the
lorde Riuers a greate while. But incontinente after
that they wereoppenlye with greate courtelye departed, and the lorde Riuers lodged, the dukes
fecretelye with a fewe of their mode priuye frendes,
fette them downe in counfayle, wherin they fpent a
great parte of the nyght. And at their rifinge in the
dawnyng of the day, thei fent about priuily to their

feruantes in the innesand lodgynges about, geuinge

them commaundemente to make them felfe fhortely
readye, for their lordes wer to horfebackward.

Vppon whiche melTages, manyeof their folke were
aitendaunt, when manye of the lorde Riuers ferNowe hadde thefe dukes
uantes were vnreadye.
taken alfo into their cuftodye the kayesof the inne,
that none flioulde pafTe foorth without theyr li-

cence.

And ouer this in the hyghe waye toward Stonye
Stratforde where the kynge laye, they hadde beeftowed certayne of theyr folke, that fhoulde fcnde

backe agayne, and compell to retourne, anye manne
that were gotten oute of Northampton toward
Stonye Stratforde, tyll they fhould geue other
lycence.
For as muche as the dukes themfelfe entended for the (hewe of theire dylygence, to bee the
fyrfte that (houldc that daye attende vppon the
kynges highnelTe oute of that towne
thus bare
they folke in hande.
But when the lorde Ryuers
vnderflrode the gates clofed, and the wayes on cueryc
fide befette, neyther hys fcruauntes nor hymfelf fuffcred to.gooute, parceiuyng well fo greaie a thyng
without his knowledge not begun for noughte,
:

comparyng this maner prefent with this laft nightcs
chere, in lb few houres fo gret a chaunge maruel-

How be it fithe hee coulde not
geat awaye, and keepe himfelfe clofe, hee woulde
not, lefte he fhoulde feeme to hyde himfelfe for

ouflye mifliked.

fbme fecret feare of hys owne faulte, whereof he
faw no luch caufe in hym felf he determined vppon
the furetie of his own confcience, to goe boldelye
to them, and inquire what this matter myghte
Whome as foone as they fa we, they bemcane.
ganne to quarrell with hym, and faye, that hee intended to fette diftaunce beetweenc the kynge and
them, and to brynge them to confulion, but it
fhoulde not lye in hys power.
And when hee be:

6

ganne

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
ganne (as hee was a very well fpoken manne)

in

goodly wife to excufe himfclf, they taryed not the
cndc of his aunfwere, but fhortely tooke him and
putte him in warde, and that done, foorthwyth
•wente to horfebacke, and tooke the waye to Stonye
Where they founde the kingc with his
Stratforde.
to leape on horfebacke, and departe
readye
companie
forwarde, to leaue that lodging for them, becaufe it

was to ftreighte

for bothe coumpanies.

And as

fone as they came in his prefence, they lighte
adowne with all their rompanie aboute them. To
whome the duke of Buckingham faide, goe afore

gentlemenne and yeomen, kepe youre rowmes.
And thus in goodly arraye> thei came to the kinge,
and on theire knees in very humble wife, faiued his
grace; whiche receyued them in very ioyous and
amiable maner, nothinge eirthlye knowing nor
But euen by and by in his
miftrullinge as yet.
prefence, they piked aquarell to the lorde Richarde
Graye, the kynges other brother by his mother,
fayinge that hee with the lorde marqu.s his brother
and the lorde Riuers his vncle, hadde coumpafled
to rule the kinge and the realme, and to fette variaunce among the ftates, and to fubdcwe and deToward the
ftroye the noble blood of the realm.
accoumplifhinge whereof, they fayde that the lorde

Marques haddt- entered ioto the Tower of London,
and thence taken out the kinges treafor, and fent
menne to the fea. All whiche thinge thcfc duke*
wille well were done for good purpoles and neceflari
by the whole counfaile at London, fauing that
fommewhat thei muft fai. Vnto whiche woordes,
the king aunfwcred, what my brother Marques hath
done I cannot faie. But in good faith I dare well
aunfwere for myne vncle Riuers and my brother
here, that thei be innocent of any fuch matters.
Ye my liege quod the duke of Buckingham thei

haue kepte theire dealing in thefe matters farre fro
the knowledge of your good grace.
And foorthwith thei arretted the lord Richarde and Sir Thomas
Waughan knighte, in the kinges prefence, and
broughte the king and all backe vnto Northampton,
where they tooke againe further counfaile.
And
there they fent awaie froni the kinge whom itpleafed
them, and fette newe feruantes aboute him, fuche as
At whiche dealinge
lyked better them than him.
was
and
nothing
contente,
wepte
but it booted
hee
And at dyner the duke of Gioucefler fente a
nor.
dilhefrom hisowne table to the lord Riuers, prayinge
him to bee of goodchere, all fhould be well inough.
And he thanked the duke, and prayed the meflenger
to bcare it to his nephewe the lorde Richarde with
tlie fame meffage for his comfort, who he thought
had more nede of coumfort, as one to whom fuch
But himfclf had been al
aducrfitie was ftraunge.

dayes in vre therewith, and therfore coulde
beare it the better.
But for al this coumfortable
courtefye of the duke of Gloucefter he fent the
his

lord Riuers and the lorde Richarde with Sir Tho-

mas Vaughan into the Norrhe countrey into.diuers
and afterward al to Pomfrait,
where they were in conclufion beheaded.
places to prifon,

A letter written with a cole by Sir Thomas More
to hysdougnxermaiftresMAR GAR etRoper, within a whyle after he was prifoner in the Towre.

jVyiYNE own good doughter,

our lorde be

^^^ thanked I am in good helthe of bodye, and
good quiet of minde and of worldly thynges I
no more defyer then I haue. I bcfeche hym make
you all mery in the hope of heauen. And fuch
thynges as I fomewhat longed to talke with you all,
concerning the worlde to come, our Lorde put theim
into your myndes, as I trufte he dothe and better to
by hys holy fpirite who blefie you and preferue
you all. Wrnicn wyth a cole by your tender louing
father, who in hys pore prayers forgetteth none of
you all nor your babes, nor your nurfes, nor your
good hufbandes, nor your good hufbandes Ihrewde
wyues, nor your fathers flirewde wyfe neither, nor
our other frendes. And thus fare ye hartely well
for lacke of paper.
in

:

:

Thomas More, knight.

Two fliort ballettes which Sir Thomas More made
for hys

paftyme while he was prifoner in the

Tower of London.

Lewys the loft louer.

E YOr

flatering fortune, loke thou neuer fo fayre.

neuer fo plefantly begin to fmile.

As though thou wouldft my ruine all repayre,
During my life thou fhalt not me begile.
Truft (hall 1 God, to entre in a while.

Hys hauen or heauen fure and vniforme.
Euer attcr thy calme, loke I for a (lorme.

Dauy the dycer.
1"

O N G was 1 lady Luke your feruing man,
And now haue loft agayne all that

1

gat,

Wherfore whan I thinke on you nowe and than,

And in my mynde refiicmber this and that.
Ye may not blame me though beftirew your cat.
1

But in fayth I bleflc you agayne a ihoufand times.
For lending me now fome laylurc to make rymes.

At the fame time with Sir Thomas Mere lived
Skelten, the poet laureate oi Henry Vlll. from whofc

L^] 2

works.

THE HISTORY OF THE
works it fcems proper to infcrt a few ftanzas, though
he cannot be faid lo have attained great elegance of

Defcription of Spring, wherein echc thing rcnewcs,
fave only the lover.

language.

'T'
"'

The prologue to the Bougc of Courte.

TN Auturnpne whan the fonne in vjrrgyne

* By radyante hete enryped hath our corne
When Luna full of mutabylytc

As Emperes the dyndcme hath worof

Of our pole artyke, fmylynge halfe in fcorne
At our foly and our v: Itedfaftnefle
The tinnc whan Mars to warre hym dyd dres,

H E foote feafon that bud, and bloome fourth
bringes,

With grcne hath cladde the hyll, and eke the vale.
The Nighringall with fethcrs new flie finges
The turtle to her mate hath told the talc
Somer is come, for every fpray now fpringes.
The hart hath hunge hys olde head on the pair.
The bucke in brake his winter coate he flyngcs ;
j

:

Of poeces olde, whiche full craftely

The (ifhes flete with newc repayred fcale
The adder all her Hough away (lie flynge?.
The fwift fwallow purfueth the flyes fmalle.
The bufy bee her honey how (he mynges i

Vnder as couerte termes as coulde be
Can touche a trouth, and cloke fubtylly
With fresfhe vtteraunce full fentcncyoully

And thus I fee among thefc pleafant thynges
Eche care decayes, and yet my forrow fpryiifres.

I

callynge to mynde the grcate auftorytc

Winter is worne that was the flourcs bale.

Dyuerfe in ftyle feme fpared not vycc to wryte
Some of mortalitie nobly dyd cndyte

Whereby I rede, thcyr renome and theyr fame

May neuer dye, but eucrmore endure
I

was fore moued to a forfe the fame

Defcripcion of the reftlefs eftate of a lover.

W HEN

youth had led me half the race.

That Cupides fcourge had made me runnej

looked back to meet the place.

But ignoraunce full foone dyd me dyfcure

I

And (hewed that in this al^c I was not fure
For to illumine (he fayd I wjs to duUe
Aduyfynge me my penne awaye to pulle

From whence my weary courfe begunne
And then I faw howe my delyre
Mifguiding me had led the waye,
Myne eyne to greedy of theyre hyre,

And not to wryte, for he fo wyll atteync
Excedyng ferther than his connynge is
His heed maye be harde, but feble is brayne
Yet haue I knowen fuche er this
But of rcproche furely he maye not mys
That clymmeth hycr than he may fotinge haue
What and he flyde downe, who (hall him faue ?
Thus vp and downe my mynde was drawen and
caft

Had made me lofe a better prey.
For when in fighes I fpcnt the day,

And could not cloake my grief with game
The boyling fmokedyd ftill bewray.
The prelent heat of fecret flame
And when fait teares do bayne my breaft.
Where love his plealent traynes hath fown.
Her beauty hath the fruytcs oppreft.

That I ne wyfte what to do was befte
So fore enwered that I was at the lafte

Ere that the buddes were fpron gc and blowne.
And when myne eyen dyd Hill purfue.

Enforfed to flepe, and for to take fome refte

The flying chafe of theyre requefl:

And to lye downe as foone as I my drefte

Theyre greedy looks dyd oft renew.
The hydden wounde within my brefte.
When every loke thefe cheekes might ftayne.

At Harwyche porte flumbrynge as I hye
In myne hoftes houfe called powers keye.

From dcdly pale to glowing red

Of the wits that flourilhed in the reign of
Henry VIII. none has been more frequently celebrated than the earl of Surry ; and this hiftory would
therefore have been imperfed without fome fpecimens of his works, which yet it is not eafy to diftingui(h from thofe of Sir Thomas li^yat and others,
with which they are confounded in the edition that
has fallen into my hands.
The three firft are, I
believe, i'wrr/s \ the re(l, being of the fame age,
are fcxfted, (bme as examples of different meafurcs,
and one as the oldett Compofition whi.h I have
found in blank verfe.

;

By outward fignes appeared playne.

To her for heipe my harte was fled.
But all to late Love learneth me.

To paynt all kynd of Colours new
To blynd theyre eyes that elfe fliould fee

My fpeckled chekes with Cupids hew.
And now the covert brc(t I clame.
That worfhipt Cupide fecretely j

And nourifhed hys facred flame.
From whence no blairing fparks do flye.

Defcripcion

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Defcripcion of the fickle AfFedions, Pangs, and
Sleightes of Love.

CUCH wayward wayes hath Love, that moft part
•^

I

know to fcke the trafte of my defyred foe.

And fere to fynde that 1 do feek, but chiefly this I
know,
That Lovers muft transfourme into the thynge beloved.

in dilcord

Our willes <io (land, whereby our hartes but feldom do accord
Decyte is hysdelighte, and to begyle and mocke
The fimple hartes which he doth ftrike with fro-

And live (alas

who would believe ?) with fprite
from Lyfe removed.
I knowe in harty (ighesand laughters of the fpleene,
At once to chaunge my ftate, my will, and eke my

ward divers ftroke.

!

colotfl- clene.

He caufeth th' one to rage with golden burning
darte.

And doth alay with Leaden cold, again the others
harte.

Whofe gleames of burning fyre and eafy fparkes of

know how to deceyve my felf wythe others helpe.
And how the Lyon chaftiled is, by beatynge of the
I

whelpe.
In ftandyngc nere the fyre, I know how that I freafe
Farre of I burne, in bothe I wafte, and fo my Lyfe
I leefe.

flame.

In balance of unequal weyght he pondereth by ame
From eafye ford where 1 tnyghte wade and pafs full

know how Love doth rage upon a yeyldingmynde.
How fmalle a nete may take and male a harte of
I

gentle kyndc

well.

Heme withdrawes and doth me drive, into a depe Or elfe with feldom fwete to feafon hepes of gall.
Revived with a glympfe of Grace old lorrowes to

dark hell:

And me witholdes where I am calde and offred place.
And willes me that my mortal foe 1 do befcke of

let fall.

The hydden traynes I know, and fecret fnares of
Love,

Grace j

He lettes me to purfue a conqueft welnere wonne
To follow where my paynes were loft, ere that my

How foone a loke will prynte a thoughte that never
may remove.

The flypper ftate I know, the fodein turnes from

fute begunne.

So by this means i know how foon a hart may turne
From warre to peace, from truce to ftryfe, and fo

welthe

The doubtfuU hope, the certaine wooe, and fure

agayne returne.
I

defpaired helthe.

know how to content my fclf in others luft.

Of little Ituffe unio my Iclf to weave a webbe of

A praife of his ladie.

truft

And how to hyde my harmes with fole dyflembling

/^EVE place you ladies and be gone,
^-^ Boaft not your felves at all.

chere.

Whan in my face the painted thoughtes would outwardly appeare.
knot* how that the bloud forfakes the face for
dred.
And how by fliime it ftaynes agayne the Chckes
with flaming red
I know under the Grene, the Serpent howhelurkes
The hammer of the reftlefs forge 1 wote eke how it
workes.
I know and con by roate the tale that I woulde tell
But oftc the woordes come fourth awrye of him that
I

:

:

For here at hande approcheth one,
Whofe face will ftayne you all.

The vertue of her lively lookes
Excels the precious ftone,
I wifhe to have none other bookes
To reade or look upon.
In eche of her two chriftall eyes,
Smyleth a naked boy
It would you all in heart fuffife
To fee that lampe of joye.
-,

I

think nature hath loft the moulde.

I know in hcate and colde the Lover how he (hakes.

Where (he her ftiape did take;
Or elfe doubte if nature coulde

In fynging how he doth complayne, in flecping how
he v.. kes

So fayre a creature make.
She may be well comparde

To languifli without ache, fickelelTe for to confume,

Unto the Phenix kinde,
Whofe like was never feene nor heard,
That any man can fynde.

loveth well.

A thoufand thynges for to devyfc, rclblvyngeof his
fume

And though he lyfte to fee his Ladyes Grace full
lore

Such pleafurcs as delyght hys Eye, do not his heiihc
reftorc.

1

In lyfe (he is Diana chalt
In trouth Penelopey,
In woord and eke in dede ftedfaft j

What will you more we fay
If

THE HISTORY OF THE
The litening Macedon by fwordes, by gleaves.

If all the world were fought fo farre.

Who coulJ findc fuche a wight,

By bandcs and troupes of footennn, with his garde,
Specdcs to Dary, but hym hii mereft kyn,

Hier beaury twinkleth lykc a ftarre
"Within the frofty night.

Oxate prefcrves with horfeiren on a plumpe
Before his carr, that none his charge fhould give.
Here grunts, here groans, eche where ftrong youth

The Lover rcfufed of his love, embraccth vertue.

is

TVyTY youthfull yeres are paiT,
"^^^

My joyfuil dayes are gone.

My
My grave and

lyfe it may not laft.
I

With throte yrent he roares, he lyeth along

am one.

His cntrailes with a launcc through gryded quyte,
Hym fmytes the club, hym woundes farre ftryking

My myrth and joyes are fled.
And I a Man in wo,

bowe.

Defirous to be ded.

And him the fling, and him the (hining fwordj

My mifciefe to forego.
I

1

He dyeth, he is all dead, he pantes, he reftcs.

burne and am a colde,

Right over ftoode in fnowwhite armour brave.
The Memphite Zoroas, a cunnyng clarke.
To whom the heaven lay open as his booke;

freefe amyddes the fycr,

2 fee fhe doth witholde
That is my honeft defyre.

And in celeftiall bodies he could tell

my helpe at hande,
I fee my lyfe alfo,
I ice

I

fee

The moving meeting light, afpedt, eclips,

And influence, and conftellations all;
What earthly chaunces would betyde, what yere.
Of plenty (torde, what figne forewarned death.

where file doth (Vande

That is my deadly fo.
I fee how Ihe dorh fee.

How winter gendreth fnow, what temperature

And yet flie wil be blynde,

In the prime tyde doih feafon well the foyle.

1 fee in helpyng me,

^

Why fummer burncs, why autumnehath ripe grapes,

She fekes and wil not fynde.
.

how fhe doth wrye,

I fee

"When I begynne to mone,
I fee when 1 come nye.

How fayne (he would be gone.
I fee what wil ye more,
She will me gladly kill.
And you fhall fee therfore

cannot live with (tones,

It is too hard a foode,

Within this heaven fphere, nor thatfmall thynges

To do my Lady good.

I

The Death of ZOROAS, an Egiptian aftronomer,
fight that Alexander

had with the

Perfians.

^^OW clattring armes, now raging broyjs of warre,
•*'

Gan palTc the noys of dredfuU trumpctts clang,

Shrowdcd with fhaftsi

Proportion is-, what (way the erryng lightes
Doth fend in courfe gayne that fy rfl movy ng heaven
What grees one from another diftancc be.
What (tarr doth let the hurtfull fyre to rage.

raignes

I wil be dead at ones

in the firft

Whither the circle quadrate may become,
Whether our tunes heavens harmony can yelde
Of four begyns among themlelves how great

Or him more mylde what oppoficion makes.
What fyre doth qualifye Mavorfes fyre.
What houfe eche one doth fecke, what plannett

That fhe fhall have her vyill.
I

fpent:

Shaking her bloudy hands, Bellone among
The Perles foweth all kind of cruel death:

the heaven with cloude of

dartes.

Covered the ayre. Againft full fatted bulles,
As forccth kyndled yrc the lyons kecne,
Whofe greedy gutts the gnawing hunger prickes;

So Macedons againft the Perfians fare.

Now corpfes hyde the purpurdc foyle with blood
Large (laughter on eche fide, but Perfcs more,
Moyft ficldes bebled, theyr heartes and numbers
bate,

Fainted while ihey gave backe, and fall to flighte.

fpeake, whole heaven he clofeth in his breit.

This fage then in the ftarres hath fpyed the fates
Threatncd him death without delay, and, flth,

He faw he could not fatal! order chaunge,
Foreward he prefl: in battayle, that he migiit
Mete with the rulers of the Macedons,
Of his right hand defirous to be flain.
The bouldeft borne, and worthieft in the feilde;
And as a wight, now wery of his lyfe.

And feking death, in fyrll front of his rage.
Comes defperately to Alexanders face.
At him with dartes one after other throwes.
With recklefle wordes and clamour him provokes,
And I'ayth, Nedanaks bartard (hamefull ilayne
Of mothers bed, why lofeft thou thy ftrokes,
Cowardes among. Turn thee to me, in cafe
Manhood there be fo much left in thy heart.

Come fight with mc, that on my helmet weare
Apollo's

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Apollo's laurell both for learnings laude.

And eke for martiall praife, that in my fhieldc
The feven fold Sophi of Minerve contein,

A

match more mete, Syr King, then any here.
The noble prince amoved takes ruth upon
The wilful) wight, and with foft words ayen,
monflrous man (quoth he) what fo thou art,
1 pray thee live, ne do not with thy death
This lodge of Lore, the Mufes manfion marre;
That treafure houfe this hand ihall never fpoyle,

My fword

fliall

never bruife that (killful brayne.

Long gather'd heapes of fcience fone to fpill
O howe fayre fruites may you to mortall men
From Wifdoms garden give; how many may
By you the wifcr and the better prove;
'What error, what mad moode, what frenzy thee
Perfwades to be downe, fent to depe Avernc,
"Where no artes flourifb, nor no knowledge vailes

For

all

thefe fawes.

When thus the fovereign

faid.

Alighted Zoroas with fword unfheathed.
The carelefs king there fmoate above the greve,
At th' opening of his quifhes wounded him.
So that the blood down trailed on the ground
The Macedon perceiving hurt, gan gnafhe.
But yet his mynde he bent in any wife
to f rbeare, fett fpurrs unto his ftede.
And turnde away, left anger of his fmarte
Should caufe revenger hand deale baleful! blowes.
But of the Macedonian chicftaines knights.
One Meleager could not bear this fight.
But ran upon the faid Egyptian rude.
And cut him in both knees: he fell to ground.
Wherewith a whole rout came of fouldiours

Hym

fterne.

And all in pieces hewed the fely feg,
But happely the foule fled to the ftarres,
Where, under him, he hath full fight of all.
Whereat he gazed here with rcachmg looke.

The Perfians waild fuch fapience to forgoe.
The very fone the Macedonians wifht

Me would have lived, king Alexander felfe
Demde him a man unmete to dye at all;

Who wonne like praife for conqucft of his Yre,
As for ftoute men in field that day fubdued.

Who princes taught how to difcerne a man.
That in his head fo rare a jewel beares,
But over all thofe fame Camenes, thofe fame.
Divine Camenes, whofe honour he procurde,
As tender parent doth his daughters wcale.
Lamented, and for thankes, all that they can.
Do cherirti hym deceaft, and fett him free.
From dark oblivion of devouring death.

Barclay wrote about 1550 ; his chief work is the
Ship of Fooks, of which the following extradl ^ill

ihew his ftyle.

Of Mockers and Scorners, and falfe Accufers.

r\ Heartless fooks, hafte here to our dodrine,
Leaue off the wayes of your enormitie,
Enforce you to my preceptes to encline.
For here Iball I (hcwe you good and veritie
Encline, and ye finde fhall great profperitie,
Enfuing the dodrine of our fathers olde.
And godly lawes in valour worth great golde.
Who that will followe the graces manyfolde
Which are in vertue, (hall finde auauncement:
Wherfore ^e fooles that in your finne are bolde,
Enfue ye wifdome, and leaue your lewde intent,
Wifdome is the way of men molt excellent:
Therfore haue done, and fliortly fpede your pace.
To quaynt your felf and company with grace.
Learne what is vertue, therin is great iblace,
Learne what is truth, fadnes and prudence.
Let grutche be gone, and grauitie purchafe,
Forfake your folly and inconueniencc,
Ceafe to be fooles, and ay to fue offence,
Followe ye vertue, chiefe roote of godlynes.
For it and wifedome is ground of clenlynes.
Wifedome and vertue two thinges are doubtles,
Whiche man cndueth with honour fpeciall,
But fuche heartes as flepe in foolithnes

Knoweth nothing, and will nought know at all:
But in this little barge in principall
All foolifli mockers 1 purpofe to repreue,
Clawe he his backe that fecleth itch or greue.
Mockers and fcorners that are harde of beleue.
With a rough comb here will I clawe and grate,
Toproue if they will from their vice remeue.
And leaue their folly, which caufeth great debate:
Suche caytiues fpare neyther poore man nor eftate.
And where their felfe are moft worthy derifion.
Other men to fcorne is all their moft condition.
Yet are mo fooles of this abufion,

Whiche of wife men dcfpifeth the doftrine.
With mowes, mockes, fcorne, and coUufion,
Rewarding rebukes for their good difcipline:
Shewc to fuche wifdome, yet (hall they not encline

Unto the fame, but fet nothing therby,
But mocke thy doftrine, ftiil or openly.
So in the worlde it appeareth commonly.
That who that will a foole rebuke or blame,
A mocke or mowe (hall he haue by and by:

Thus in derifion haue fooles their fpeciall game.
Correct a wife man that woulde cfchue ill name.

And fayne would learne, and his lewde life amende.
And to thy wordes he gladly (hall intende.
If

THE HISTORY OF THE
If by misfortune a rightwife man offende,

He gUdly fuffercth a iuftc corredion,

About the year 1553 wrote Dr. Wtlfon, a man
celebrated for the policcnefs of his ftyle, and the

And him that him teacheth laketh for his frende,

extent of his knowledge: what w.is the ftate of our

Him fclfe putting mekely unto fubiedtion,

language in his time, the following may be of ufe

Folowing his preceptes and good diredion:
But yf that one a foole rebuke or blame.
He fliall his teacher hate, Qaunder and diffame.
Howbeit his wordes oft turne to his own fliame,
And his owne dartes rttourne to him agayne.

to fliow.

And fo is he fore wounded with the fame.
And in wo endeth, great mifery and payne.
It alfo proued full often

is

certayne.

That they that on mockers alway their mindes caft,
Shall of all other be mocked at the laft.

He that goeth right, ftedfaflr, fure, and faft.

pRonunciation

is an apte orderinge bothe of the
voyce, countenaunce, and all the whole bodye,
accor lynge to the worthines of fuche woordes and
mater as by fpeache are declared.
The vfc
hereof is fuche for anye one that liketh to haue
prayfe for tellynge his talc in open aflc;mblie, that
hauing a good tongue, and a comelye countenaunce,
he flial be thought to paflTe all other that haue the
like vtteraunce
thoughe they haue much better
learning.. The tongue geueth a certayne grace to
euerye matter, and beautifieth the caufe in like
maner, as a fwete foundynge lute muche fetteth
forthe a meane deuifed ballade.
Or as the founde
of a good inftrumente ftyrreth the hearers, and

*•

:

May him well mocke that goeth halting and lame,
And he that is white may well his fcornes caft,
Agaynft a man of Inde but no man ought to blame
Anothers vice, while he vfeth the fame.
Butwhothatof finne is cleaneindeedeand thought.
May him well fcorne whofe liuing is ftarke nought.
The fcornes of Naball full dere fliould haue been
:

bought.
If Abigayl his wife difcrete and fage.
Had not by kindnes right crafty meanes fought,

moueth muche delite,

the matters fake.
Demofthenes therforc, that famoufe oratour, beyng aflced what was the chiefeft

Hath not two beares in their fury and rage

Two and furtie children rent and tome.
For they the prophete Helyfeus did fcorne.
So might they curfe the time that they were borne,
For their mockmg of this prophete diuine:
So many other of this fort often mourne
For their lewde mockes, and fall into ruine.

Thus is it foly for wife men to encline.

To this lewde flockc of fooles, for fee thou fliall
Them mofte fcorning that are moft bad of all.
The Lenuoy of Barclay to the fooles.

Ye mocking fooles that in fcorne fet your ioy.
Proudly defpifing Gods punition:
Take ye example bv Cham the fonne of Noy,
"Which laughed his father vnto derifion,
Which him after curfed for his tranfgrefTion,

And made him feruaunt to all his lyne and ftocke.
So fliall ye caytifs at the conclufion,
Since ye are nought, and other fcorne and mocke.

Thus have I deduced the Englijh language from

point in al oratorie, gaue the chiefe and oncly
praife to Pronunciation ; being demaunded, what
was the feconde, and the thirde, he ftill made

aunfwere. Pronunciation, and would make none
other aunfwere, till they lefie afliyng, declaryng
hereby that arte without vtteraunce can dooe nothyng, vtteraunce without arte can dooe right

muche. And no doubte that man is in outwarde
apparaunce halfe a good clarke, that hath a cleane
tongue, and a comely gefture of his body, ^fchines
lykwyfe L'eyng banniflied his countrie through Demofthenes, when he had redde to the Rhodians his
own oration, and Demofthenes aunfwere thereunto,
by force whereof he was banniflied, and all they
marueiled muche at the excellencie of the fame
then (q d ^fchines) you would have marueiled
muche more if you had heard hymfelfe fpeak it.
Thus beyng caft in miferie and banniflied foreuer,
he could not but geue fuch greate reporte of his
deadly and mortal ennemy.

eafily traced, and the gradations obferved, by which

the age of /f//r(f^ to ihzioi Elizabeth; in fome parts

it

imperfedty for want of materials; but 1 hope,

elegance,

in

fuch a manner that

its

progrefs

foundyng voice

rather for the reporters fake, then the reporter for

The wrath of Dauid to temper and affwage.

Icaft,

fo a cleare

comforteth muche our deintie cares, with muche
fwete melodic, and caufeth vs to allowe the matter

at

advanced from its

firll

rudenefs to

its

prefeat

may be

A GRAM^

M

R

M

A

R

OF THE

ENGLISH TONGUE.
G

RAMM AR, whlchisyhart of ufing'wards properly com-

To thefe may be added certain combinations of letters univer-

,

prifes

four

Orthography, Etymology, Syntax,

parts;

and Profody.

fally ufed in printing ; as ft. ft, fl, fl, (b, flc,

fF, ff, fi, fli, fi, ffi, ffl,

and &, or and per ft, and. a,ft,fl,f,fi,fi,ff,j;f,ffi,f,ffi.ff. H.

In this divirton and order of the parts of grammir I follow the common gr»mmwians, without enquiring whether t fitter diftributiim might not be tound.
Experience ha; long Ikown this method to be fo diftinft a» to obviate confulion,

and fo comprchcnfive as to prevent any inconvenient omiflions. I likcwife ufe
and ah-cady (nderftood, though perhaps others more
proper might fometimes be invented.
Sylbnrgius, and other innovators, whofe
new terms have fanlc their learning into negled, have left fufficieot warning

(t,

a, a, a, ff, tr, a, s, ffi, ffi, i»

Our letters are commonly reckoned twenty-four, bccaufe anciently i and/,

s well as u and v, were exprefled by the fame charafler

;

but as thofc letters,

•the terms already received,

which had always different powers, have now diflFcrent forms, our alphabet may

againft the trifling ambition of teaching arts in a new language.

be properly faid to coniill of twenty-fix letters.
None of the fraall confunants have a double form, excepty^ ij of whichyit
ufed in the beginning and middle, and < at the end.

ORTHOCRAPHy is the art of combining Utters itito fyllahhs,
4mdfyllabhs into nuords.
and found of letters.

It therefore teaches previoufly the form

Saxon.

fi

a
b

Italick.

A

A

a

B

a
b

B

b

C
D

s

a
b

e

«c

c

c

C

c

D

b

D

d

e

i.

E
F

e

F

F

f

h

G
H

g
h

i

1

I

i

J

J

K

k

c

7>

fe

K
L

k

L

1

ro

m

M m

N

n

n
o

1

d

'I
jet

»

8
1
i

i

I

i

7

j

K
L

N n

P

P P
?

n

R

r

f- r
R

r

S

fs

T

S f>

t

X
Y

X
Y

X
y
z

Z

T

w W

P

Z

X

y
z

V

w

I

tl

Mi

n

tn

<o

o

^

P

pee

q

cut

fR

tf

or

fs?

'fi

t

tit

u
b

u

I

M m

T
U

M m

{{

t

A
C

u
•V

D

IM

m

r y
X K

P

X X

nor into the properties and gradation of founds, or the elegance or harlhnefs of
particular combinations, as a writer of univerfal and tranfcendental grammar. I

(.wja

J confonant.
t

bj

f

^

In treating on the letters, 1 fliall not, like fome other grimmarUni, enquire
into the original of their form, as an antiquarian j nor into their formation and
prolation by the organs of fpccch, as a mechanick, anatomiH, or phyfiologift

aitcb

3
%

k

SL q

V

€

h

H

P

u;

fi*
det

f

«T

a

l»

3P

P

U
V

®

<3

P

a

t
i

ia

tm

_

»

Vol. I

confider the Englilh alphabet only as it is Englilh ; and even in this narrow dif..
quifition, I follow the example of former grammarians, perhaps with more reve-

rence than judgment, bccaufe by writing in Englilh i fuppofc my reader already
acquainted with the EngliOi language, and confequenilv able to pronounce the
letters, of which I teach the pronunciation; and becaufc of founds in gcnc.-.il it
may be obfcrved, that words are unable to defcribe them. An account therefore
of the primitive and fimple ietttrs is ufclefs almoft alike to thofe who know their
found, and thofe who know it not.

Of

VOWELS.
A.

J has three founds, the flender, open, and broad.
A flender found in moft words, zaface, mane and in word*
is

(or 'Va

confonant.
doable «
tx

•V

;

ending in atiotr, as creation, fal'vation, generation.
The a flender is the proper Englilh a, called very juftly by Erpenius, in hii
Arabick Grammar, a Anglicum turn c miftum, as having a middle found between
the open a and the t.
The French have a fimilar found in the woid /a/i, and in

^

their e mafculiuc.

nvy

A open is the a of the Italian, or nearly refembles it j
xed, more
father, rather, congratulate, fancy, glafs.
commonly izz^rd
or uxxard, that is

mt -

for i it is the

w

a

S

G

Q.

e

number generally received ; but
;

it

e

o

T
U
V

the

end of words, as thy, holy ; before /,
as from die, dying
from beautify, beautifying ; in the words y5yi/,
days, eyes ; and in words derived from the Greek, and written
originally with v, Zifiijiem, avmft» 5 fympathy, av^iti^uct.
For u we often write
after a vowel, to make a diphthong j
as rarw, grew, n/itvj, •vovi,floTMing, loivnefs.
The founds of all the letters are various.

Name.

«

O
R

»

£ t
F f

N
O

8

OldE nglith.

Roman.

E

is

praftice to write y in the

The letter* of the Eagliih language are.

X

Vowels are five, a, e, i, o> u.
Such

fhard.

A broad refembles the a of the German

;

as

as all, 'wall, call.

Many words pronounced with a broad were anciently written with au, at
ftnlt, mauli ; and we fliU tty fault, vault.

S

This was probably the Siaon found,
/or

A

GRAMMAR

for it II yet retained in the northern dialeAst aod in the ruftick pronunciation

fFomttt is pronounced nuimen.

u naan for au«, taunj lor bard.
^

The ihort e has fometimes the found of a clofe u, tsfon, ttme.

The fliort a approaches to the a open, as griz/i.
The long «, it prolonged by e at the end of the word, is al-

O coalefces into a diphthong with a, as moan, groan, approach

ways (lender, is graze, fame.

A forms a diphthong only with

THE

OF

{

oa has the found oio long.

or j, and u or w. Ai or 4)'>
as in plain, ivain, gey, clay, has only the found of the long and"
(n% united to f in fome words derived from Greek, as cecontmy ; but ne being
flender a, and differs not in the pronunciation froin flane, -wane. not an Englilh diphthong, they are better written a^ they are luusdcd, with only t,
*
'ecoixiriy.
Au or o'w has the found of the German a, as reew, naughty.
;'

With I, as oil, foil, moil, neifome,

^e is fometimcs found in Latin words not completely naturalifcd or aflimilattd, but is no EngUfli diphthong ;

as C'jir, £mas.

and is more properly exprclled by fing'.e t,
.

E.

,

This ^oalition of letters fcems to unite the founds of the two letters as bet astwo f»un>& can be united without being dcftroyed, atid therefore approaches more
nearly than any combination in our tongue to the notion of a diphthong.

£ I] the letter which occurs rood frequently in the Englifli language.

E is long, as m feint

.

mtn

;

With 0, as boot, hoot, cooler ; eo has the found of the Italian u.
With K or iv, as our, poiver, flo'wer but in fome words has-

or fliort, as in cellar, feparate, celebrate.

t/bei.

It is always Ihort befor© a double confonahti' or tw(i.confonants, as in ft.v, perplexity, relent, medlar, reptile, ferpent, cellar,

cjfation, bleJJ{ng, fell, felling, debt.

;

only the found'cf o long, as in. foul, bmul, fovj , grtnu. Tiiefe different founds are ufed to dittinguifli difPercnt iigoificatipns ; as
bo^u, an inllrument for (hooting ; boiv, a depreiiion of the head :
bowl, an orbicular
fan.!}, the (he of a boar ; foi>j, to fcatter feed
body ; botxl, a wooden veflel.
Ou is fometimes pronounced like o foft, as court ; fometimes
(hort, as cough ; fometimes like u clofe, as could ; or ;/ open,
like
as rough, tough ; which ufe only can teach.
:

E is always mute at the end of a word, except in monofyllanames, as PePhebe, Derbe ; being ufcd to modify the foregoing confonant, asyiWiT^, tnce, hedge, oblige ; or to lengthen the preceding
bles that have no other vowel, as the ; or proper
nelope,

vowelj as bun, b^.ne ; can, cane; pin, p'tne ; tun,
rihe ; popt fopt ; fir, ftre ;, cur, .cure i tub, tube.

tiene ;

rob,

Ou is frequently ufed in the laft fyllable of words which in Latin end in cr, and
arc made Engliih, as hcncur, labour, favour, from bcno/j tabor ^ fat' or.
Some late innovators havtejefted the u, without coiirtJtring that the lad fyl'

Almoft all words which now tcrmioate.in canfonants ended anoicntly in «, as
year, yean; -u/'ildnifs, •wildvejji; which ir probably 'had the force of the French e
feminine, and ranftituted a lyllahle with its adbtiat^ conionant ; for, in old ediThis e
tions, words are fometimes di\ided thus, clca-rt, fcl-k, icciuled-ge.
was perhaps for a tiqie vocal or filent in poetry, as convenience requircJ ; but it
Camden in his Himains calls it the iilent e.
has been long whi'Hy mute.
It does not always lengthen the foregoing vowel, as ^/s-v?, live,
gltie.

lable gives the found neither of er nor ur, but a found between them, if not compounded of both; befidrt that they are probably dL-rJv.ed to us from the French,
f\ontta in err, as bnnieur, Jivcur.

u.

U is long in /fe, confuflon
It coalefces with a, e, i, o ;

It has fometimes in the en<J pf words a found obfcure, and
fcarcely perceptible, as open, papen, Jhotteut'thijile, participle,
'•
';
:-'•
iitc?e.
'

'

;

,

This faintnefe of found is found when « feparates a muce from a liquid, at in
rotten; or follows a mute and liquid, as in raff/e.
.

E forms a diphthong with a, as near ; with
and with uotiu, asne^VfJieiv.
Ea founds like e long, as mean

;.

/',

as deign, receive ;

;

or (hort, as us, concujjion.
but has rather in theie combina-

tions the force of the ou, as quaff, qnefl, quit, quite, languijh ;
fometimes in ui the / lofes its found, as in juice. It is fometimes
mute before a, e, i,y, as guard, guefl, guije, buy.

U

is

followed by e in virtue, but jhe e has no fojjnd.

Ue is fometimes mute at the end of a word, in imitation of the French, ispro"
rogue, fynagogue, fitgue, vague, harangue.

or like^^, as dear, cJefrxfuar..^

•'
v
Ei is founded like e lon^, as/eize, perceiving.
-,i
£u founds as u long and foft.
E, a, u, are combined in beauty and its derivatives, but have
only the found of u.
E m2Ly be faid to form a diphthong by reduplication, as agree,
'\

fueping.

7" is a vowel, whichi as Quintilian obferves of one of the Ro-

man letters, we might want without inconvenience, but that we
It fupplies the place of; at the end of words, as thy ;
before an f, as dying ; and is commonly retained in derivative
words where it was part of a diphthong in the primitive j as deJlroy, dejlroyer ; betray, betrayed, bttrayer ; pray, prayer j fay,

have it.

Ea is found inyecmen, where It is founded as e (hort; and 'in feifle, where it fayer ; day, days.
is pronounced like et.

J'b^ng the^aton vowel y, which was commonly ufcd wher? / is now put,

,

occuts very frequently in all old boolc£>

/has a found, long, as fine; and Ihort, as fin.
That is eminently obfervable in i, which may be lllcewife remarked in other
letters, that the Ihort found, is not the long found contrafled, but a found wholly
diA'etent.

The long fonnd in monofyllables u always marked by the e
final, as thin, thine.

J is often founded before r as a fliort a ; i.% flirt, firft, Jhiri.
It forms a diphthong only with e, a& field, Jhield, which is
founded as the double ee ; except friend, which is founded as

General Rules.
A vowel inthe beginning or middle fyllable, before two con-,
fonants, is commonly (hort, as opportunity.
In monofyllables a fingle vowel before a fingle confonant

Many is pronounced as if it were wrote mermy.

Of C O N S O N AN T S..

frend.

B.

I is joined with ai in lieu, and rui in •uie^ii ; which triphthong) ate founded as
tbe oprn *.

o.

O is long, as bZiu, aiidiint, corriding
iili^ue, /«//.

is-

ftiort, as flag,.frog.

3 has one unvaried found, fuch as it obtains in other Ianguages.
It is

;

or fliort, hillock, knock,

,

mute in debt, debtor, fubtk,

thumb, climb, comb, ivomb.
It is vifed before I and r, »j */«*, hrvaa.

doubt,

t

I

L

J

/

lamb, limb, dumb,

E :N ,G L

./TON G;.U

-H

S

I

]E.

h

c.

confonant founds uniformly like the foft g, and is therefore
a letter efelefs, except in ctynwlog)', as ejaculation, jcftir, jocund,

C has before e and / the found of/; a.s^)itere!j, centrLi, century, circular, cijiern, city , Jicc'.ty :

before a,

o,

and »,

it

J

founds

like k, as calm, concavity, copper, incorporate, curiojity, concupij- jlflcti

......

cence.

^

.

.

_

-

•

•

C might be omitted in the language without lofs,,(ince o«e of its founds might

,..'''
and C wKctc,

K.

K

has the found of hard c, and \i ufed before e
according to Englirti analogy, c would be foft, 'as kept, king,
Jl-!rt,Jieptick, for fo it Ihould be written, not fceptick, becaufey^
Cb has a found which is analyfed into tjh, as church, chin, is founded like/, ag in fane.
crutch,
ft is the fame found which the Italians give to the c
It is ufed before «, as knell, knot, but totally lofes its found in modem profimple before ; and e, as citta, cerro.
1,
nunciation.
Ch is founded like k in words derived from the Greek, as
Arch is commonly founded ark befor* a
chymiji, /cheme, chohr.
is never doubled; but c is ufed before it to Ihorten'tha
vowel, as archangel; and with the Englifti found of ch before a vowel by a double confonant, as cockle, flc,iU,
confonant, as arf^^y^^o/.
be fupplicd by/, and the oth* by k, but that it prefervcs to the eye the etymology
0/ words, as fact from fades, captive from captfvus,

,

.

.

!

K

Cb, in fame Freoch words not yet affimilatcd, founds lilce fi, as mach'au,

L has in Englifh the fame liquid found as in other languages.

cba'jfe,

C, having no determinate found, according to Engliih ortliography, never ends
a word ; therefore wc write y?iV*» i/s.-,4, which wcc vr'^'mi^l-, fluke, ixcke, in
fjch words, C is now mute.
It is ufed before / ajid r, as clxk, crofst

Thecuftom is to double the / at the end of monofyllablcs, as HI!, iv'ill,Ju/f.
Thefe words were originaHy writteiT H/le, tville, fuUc ; and when the e firft
grew filcnt, and was afterwards omitted, tiic //was retained, to give force, ac-

,

cording to the analogy of our language, to the foregoing vowel.

D.

L is fometimes mute, as in calf, half, halves, calites, could,

Is uniform in its found, as death, diligent.

•would, fhould, pjalm, talk, faltnon, falcon.

The Saxo.is, who delighted in guttural founds, fometimes afpirated the / af

and vi, as divelK

It is ufed before r, as drtv), draft ;

the beginning of words, as hbj:,

a loaf, or bread;

hlapolift, a lord; but this

pronunciation is now difufed.

/",

though having a name beginning with a vowel,

is

Le at the end of words is pronounced like a weak el, in which

num-

the e is almofl mute, as table, puttie.

bered by die grammarians among the ienii-vowels ; yet has tliis
quality of a mute, that it is commodioudy founded before a
liquid, z%jiajk,jly, freckle.
It has an unvariable found, except

M.
Mhas always the fame found, as murmur, monumental.

that of is fometimes fpokcn nearly as ov.

N.

G.

G has two found?, one hard, as in gay, go, gun

always the fame (bund, as noble, manners.
is fometimes mute after m, as damn, condemn, hymn.

A'^ has
;

tlie

N

other

foft, as in gem, giant.

At the end of a word it is always hard, ring, fnug, fong, frog.
Before e and / the found is uncertain.

P has alv/ays the fame found, which the Welfli and Germans
confound with B.
P is fometimes mute, as in pfalm, and between m and /, as

G before e is foft, as gem, gcicralion, except in gear, geld,
and derivatives from words ending in g, as
finging, ftrtnger, and generally before er at the end of words, as
geej'e,

get, genvgaiu,

tempt.

fiiger.

Pb is ufed for/ in words derived from the Greek, as philofo-

G is mute before n, as gnafh,ftgn, foreign.

G before

hard, as gi've, except in giant, gigantic, gibhtt,
gibe, giblets, Giles, gill, gdlifiimier , gin, ginger, gingle, to which
i is

pher, philanthropy , Philip,

may be added Egypt zxiL gypfey
Gh, in the beginning of a word, has the found of the hard g,
as ghoflly ; in the middle, and fometimes at the end, it is quite

^, as in other languages, is alw.iys followed by «, and has a.
found which our Saxon anceftors well exprefled by cp, ciu, as

filent, as though, right, fought, fpoken tho', rite, foute.

quadrant, queen, equeflrian, quilt, enquiry, quire, quotidian.
never followed by u.

It has often at the end the found of/, as laugh,

whence laugh-

^

is

S^u is fometimes founded, in words derived from the French,

ter retains the fame found in the middle ; cough, trough, fough;
ttugh, enough, Jlough.

like k, as conquer, liquor, rifque, chequer.

It is not to be daobted, but that in the original pronunciation gh hid
the force of a confonant, deeply guttural, which is ftill continued unung the
Scotch.
is ufed before i, 1, and r.

R.

R has the fame rough fnarling found as in other tongues.

G

The Saxons nfed often to put h before it, as before / at the beginning of
words.

H.

.

Rh is ufed in words derived from .the Gteck, as myrrb, mjrrbiiu, catarrhous,

W

rheum, rbeumdiuk, rhjmt.

is a note of afpiraiion, and (hows that the following vowel
muft be pronounced with a ftrong emiffion of breath, as hat,

,

Re, .It the end of fome words derived from the Latin or
French, is pronounced like a weak er, as theatre, fepulcbre.

horfe.

It feldom begins any but the firll fyllable, in which it is
always founded with a full breath, except in heir, herb, hofller,
honour, humble, honefl, humour, and their derivatives.

S.

£ has a hifling found, 9a fibilation, fiftet.
It fometimei begins middle or final fyllablesln words compouadcdi as hliikIt^J; ot derived lium the Lacin,,as ctmprtbetuUd.

A Angle

>

'Imci, frovii ;

feldom ends any word, except in the third perfon of verbs, as
and the pkitall of nouns,
(rets, hufits, diftrejfei j th« prontuns

M

'

B »

V

this,

A

'Grammar of the

tth, th, tan, ynn, u) ;

tfie lirerb tbui ; and worJs derived from Latin,
niat, jufflui ; Che f IcWe being always either in Jt, at himjt, berjc, or inyt)

as

Z.

as

Z begins no word originally EnglLfli

grsji, drejt, i/ijs, lifs, anciently gmji, ttrrji.
its

;

it

has the fonnd, a»

name ixxard, or f hard exprefles, of an / uttered with clofer

S fingle, at the end of words, has a wofler found, like that of compreffion of the palate by the tongue, in freeze, froxe.
», as trees, eyes, except this, thus, us, rebus, furplus.
In orthography I have fuppoltd trtbetpj, orjufl utterance tf wurjt, to be inIt fpundj like % before ion, if a vowel goes before, as intrufion ;
cluded ; orthography being only the art of expreiring certain founds by proper
and like^ if it follows a confonant, as con'verjton.
characters.
1 have therefore obferved in what words any of the letters are
It founds like z. before e mute, as refu/e, and before _)i final, as
mute.
rejy;

and

words ho/om,

Mod of the writers of Englilh gramtnar have given long tables of words pronounced othcrwifc than they arc written, and feem not fufHclently to have
confidcrcd, that of £nglilh, as of all living tongues, there is a double pronunciation, one curfory and colloquial, the other regular and folemn.
The
It it the peculiar quality o(
f, that it may be founded before all confonants,
except * and as, in which / \% comprifcd, x being only ij, and K a hard or cjirlory pronunciation is always vague and uncertain, being made diflferent in
gftifsf,
Tbb / is therefore termed by grammarians fi»te pitifiat'u Ultra ; the diiiercnt mouths by negligence, unikilfulnefs, or an'eilation. The folemn proreafon of which the learned Dr. Clarke erroneoully fuppoled to be, that in nunciation, though by no means immutable and permanent, is yet always
fome words it might be #jublcd at plealure. Thus wc find in feveral lan- Icfs remote from the orthography, and Icfs liable to capricious innovation.
They have however generally formed their tablet according to the curfory
guages :
fpccch of thofe with whom they happened to converfe ; and concluding that
iZ'invfxt, fcatter, Jdcgno, fdrucdolo, ffavetlari, ff"*jH>^, Jgamhrart, jgranare-,
the whole nation combines to vitiate language in one manner, have oftea
Jhake, Jiumber, fmtli, jnipe, fpace,^iendiiur, fpring, fquax^e, Jbrnv, fi^p, firt^gtb,
eftabliflicd the jargon of the lowed of the people as the model of fpeech.
^ramen, Jh'ipe, J'vnttura, ftvell,
For pronunciation the beft general rule is, to confider thofe of the moft elegant fpeakers who deviate lead from the written words.
S is iDUtC in ij!e, ijland, demefnt, vi/cqunl.
There have been many fchcmcs offered for the emendation and fcttlement of
our orthography, which, like that of other nations, being formed by chance,
or according to the fancy of the earlled writers in rude ages, was at fird very
various and uncertain, and is yet fufficlently irregular.
Of thefe reformers
7* has its cuHonary found, as take, temptation,
fome have endeavoured to accommodate orthography better to the pronunciTi before a vowel has the found of _/f, as/ai'vatioH, except an ation, without confiderlng that this is to mcafure by a ihadow, to take that for
Others, lefs
goes before, as quejiion ; excepting likewife derivatives from a mod^l or ilandard which is changing while they apply it.
abfurdly indeed, but with equal unlikelihood of fuccels, have endeatoured to
words ending in ty, as mighty, mightier.
proportion the number of letters to that of founds, that every found may have
Th has two founds ; the one foft, as thus, <whcther ; the other its own charaftcr, and every character a lingle found. Such would be the.
hard, as thing, think. Thie found is foft in thcfe words, then, ortliography of a new language to t% formed by a fynod of grammarians
thenct, and there, with their derivatives and compounds ; and in upon principles of fcience. But who can hope to prevail on nations to change
that, thefe, thou, thee, thy, thine, their, they, this, thofe, them, their praftice, and make all their old books ufelefs ? or what advantage would
a new orthography procure equivalent to the confulion and perplexity of fuch
though, thus, and in all words between two vowels, as father,
an alteration f
tvhether ; and between r and a vowel, as burthen.
Some of thefe fchemes I fliall however exhibit, which may be ufcd according
In other words it is hard, as tbici, thunder, faith, faithful. to the diverfitics of genius, as a guide to reformers, or terrour to innovators.
One of the fird who propofed a fcheme of regular orthography, was Sir
Where it is foftened at the end of a woid, an e filent mult be
Thomas Smith, fecretary of date to Queen Elizabeth, a man of real learning,
added, as breath, breathe; cloth, clothe.
and much pra£llfed in grammatical difquiQtions. Had he written the following
lines according to his fcheme, they would have appeared thus 1
in thofe

dejire, •u.-ifjom, prifon, prifoner,

frejint, prefent. Jam/el, ca/ement.

/

V.

y has a found of near affinity to that ofy*, vain, vanity.

At length Erafmus, that great injur'd name,
The glory of the ptiedhood, and the fhame,

From f,

And drove thofe holy Vandals off the dage.

Stemm'd the wild torrent of a barb'rous age.
in the Iflaadjck alphabet, 1/

ir ocly diftinguiihcd by a diacritical

pel IK.

Ac IcngiS Erafmus, Sat gret Vngurd nam.
At glorV of So priidhtid, and Se zam,

W.

Stcmmd Se TOild torrent of a barb'rous aj.

And drijv S'os hiili Vandals off Se daj.
Of Of, which in diphthongs is oftea an undoubted vowel,
fome grammarians have doubted whether it ever be a confonant
After him another mode of writing was offered by Dr. Gill, the celebrated
and not rather, as it is called, a double u or ou, as luater may be
which I cannot reprcfent cxa^ly for
maftcr of St. Paul's fchool in London
refolved into ouater ; but letters of the fame found are always want of types, but will approach as nearly as 1 can by means of charattcr^
reckoned confoaants in other alphabets
and it may be ob- now in ufe, fo as to make it undcrftood, exhibiting two ftanzas of Speofeiia tlie
ferved, that lu follows a vowel without any hiatus or difficulty of reformed orthography.
;

:

a

utterance,
frofiy ^winter.
has a found accounted peculiar to the Engllfh, which the
Saxons better cxpreffed by hp, htu, as ivhat, 'whence, -whiting ;
in luhore only, and fometimes in •wholefome, 'wh is founded like
a fimple h.

Wh

JT begins no Englilh word ;
Miraneouj.

it

has »he found of is, as axle,

Spenfer,

book iii. canto 5.

tTnthankful wretch, faid he, is this the meed.
With which her fovereign mercy thou dod quite f
Thy life fhe faved by her gracious deed j
But thou dod ween with viiianous defpight.
To blot her honour, and her beav'nly light.
Die, rather die, than fo difloyally
Deem of her high defert, or feem fo light.
Fair death it Is tj ihun more Ihame ; then die*
Die, rather die, than ever love difloyally.

But if to love difloyalty it be,

Y.
y, when it follows a confonant, is a vowel ; when it precedes
•ither a vowel or dipththong, is a confonant, ye, young.
It is
thought by fome to be in all cafes a vowel,
But it may be obferved ofy as of 'iu, that it foUoivs a vowel without any hiatus,
as rofy youth.

Shall I then hate her, that from deathes door

Me brought ? ah far be fuch reproach fi om ms>
What can 1 lefs do, than her love therefore,
!

Sith I her due reward cannot redore ?
Die, rather die, and dying do her fcrvc.

Dying her ferve, and living her adore.

Thy life (he gave, thy life fhe doth deferve ;
Die, rather die, than ever from her (enice fwtrvt.

The thief argument by which •» and y appear to be always vowels is, that
the founds which they arc fuppofed to have as confonant^, cannot be uttercJ
ai^ter • vowel, like that of a'l nther confonants : thus we fay, tu, vt , do, odd

VrJlonkful wrs:i, faid hj, iz Sis Se mjd,
Wi|j lob hrr fotcrdin miifi Sou dud qujt ^

Dj Ijf rj '"tt!''- bj htr grafius djd
Sue Sou duil wca wi|i V'iinus diipjt,
;

tat <A wM, Unu, the two founds »t'«r ha?e ao ickialilaiicc tu ewih «tlic[>

8

T»

ENGLISH TONGUE.
Tu blot btr honor, and her hctlalj lL6ti

ETYMOLOGY,

Pj, ra^ir dj, iScn Co diflolalj

Pjm o( hir hii> dizirt, or fjm fo liit.
Fair dt|| ic iz tu fun mwr film ; ^in dj*
Pj, nSer dj, Ssn itlfr lub difloulj.
~
But it" tu lub difloialtj it bj,
Sal 1 ^in hat htr ^at iVom diSez dxr
Mj brouit ? oh ! f#' bj fuo nproj from mj.

ETYMOLOGY teaches

the deduftion of one word from
and the various modifications by which the fenfe
of the fame word is diverfified ; as horj'e, horfes ; I love, I loved.
atiother,

Wat kan I iis du iStn hir iuti Scrfvr,

0/ tie A R T I c V t.

her du riw^rd icanot reitur ?
Dj, rjiJSer dj, and djij du htr firto,
DJ!5 hir fiib, and lib.; hsr adir.
Siir i

The Englilh have two articles, an or a, and t&e.

Dj Ijf fj 6«*'> *j Ijf rj <iuA dizerVl
Dj, raiit dj, ita (btr r'rom hir I'tibii fwirb.

An, a.

Dr. Gill was followed by Charles Butler, a man who did not want an underftanding which might have qualified him for better emp'.i'yiricnt.
He ferns
to have been more fanguine than his predccefTors, for he prjnted his book according to his own I'chenke ; which the following fpecimcn will make eafily un-

ji Jias an indefinite fignification, and means one, with fome
reference to more ; as T/jis ii a good hook, that is, one among the
books that are good.
He tvas killed by a fvjord, that is, yZfa#

derwood.

/•word.

But whenfoerer you have occaflon to trouble their patience, or to come
ireong them being troubled, it is better to ftanJ upon your guard, than to
For the fafeguard of your face, which they have
truft to their gentlenefs.
moft mind unto, provide a purfttiood, made of coarfc bouUering, to be drawn
and knit about your collar, which fur more fafety is to be lined againft the
eminent parts with woollen cloth. Firfl cut a piece about an inch and a half
broad, and half a yard l;ing, to reach round by the temples and forehead, from
one ear to the o^her; which being fowcd in his place, join unto it two Ihort
pieces of the fame breadth under the eyes, for the balls of the cheeks, and then

This is a better book for a man than a boy, that is, for
An army
one ofthoje that are men than one of thofe that are boys.

might enter ivithout refiftance, that is, any army.
In the fenfes in which we ufe a or an in the fingular, we fpeak
in the plural without an article ; as, thefe are good books.
have made an the original article, becaufe it is only the Saxon an, or arn,
applied to a new ufe, as the German tm, and the French un : the n being
cut off before a conibnant in the fpeed of utterance.
~
1

on.',

Grammarians of the laft age direft, that an fhould be ufed
fet another piece about the breadth of a (hilling againft the top of the aofe.
At other times, when they are not angered, a little piece half a quarter broad, before h ; whence it appears that the Englilh anciently afpirated
to cover the ejes and parts about them, may lerve, though it be in the heat of lefs.
Jn is ftill ufed before the filent b, as, an herb, an haneft
the day.

man : but otherwife a ; as,

Bet penfocver you hay' occafion to trubble 8eir patlenc', or to c«»m among
tern hiring trubled, it is better to ftand upon your gard, San to truft to 8eir
For *e faf gard of your fac', pi? 8ey hav' moft mind' unto,
gentlenes.
provid' a purfehjod, mad' of coorfe boultering, to b« drawn and knit about
your collar, pis for raor' faf'ty is to b« lined againft S' eminent parts wit
wecUen clot. Firft cut a free' about an jna and a half broad, and half a \ard
long, to ten round by Se temples and for'head, from one ear to 8e o8er j
yia bfcing fowrd in his plac', join unto it two fort paces of the fam breadT
under 'Se eys, for the bails of ie chirks, and then fet an oSer p«c' about 8t
breadr of a filling againft the top o 8c nofe.
At o8er tim's, fen 8ey at'
not angered, a little pice' half a quarter broad, to cover 8e eys and parts about
them, may fcrve, 8owj it be in the heat of 8e day. Buikr
Ihi Nature anj
Frtfcrlits cf Beit, 1634.

m

In the time of Charles I. tber« was a very prevalent Inclination to change
the orthography; as appears, among other books, in fuch editions of the
works of Miltun as were publilhed by himlilf.
Of thefe reformers, every
man bad his own fchcme ; but they agreed in one general delign of accommodating the letters to the pronunciation, by ejcfting fuch as they thought fuperfluous.
Seme of them would have writun thefe lines thus

A horfe, a horfe, my kingdom for a horfe.
Shakefpeatt.
An or a can only be joined with a ftngular, the correfpondent
plural is the noun without an article, as Iivant a fen ; J ivant
fens : or with the pronominal adjt&'ivefome, as / luant fome fens.

The has a particular and definite fignification.
The fruit

Of that forbidden tree, whofe mortal talle
Brought death into the wor!d.

is

man.

The is ufed in both numbers.

am as free as Nature firft made man.
Ere the bafe laws of fervitude began.
When wild in woods the noble favage ran.
I

-All the erth
Shall then be paradis, far happier place

Than this of Eden, and far happier dais.
Birtiop Wllklns afterwards, in his great work of the philofophital Janjuage,
f ropofed, without expeSing to be followed, a regular orthography ; by which
(he Lord't prayer i» 10 be written thus

y»r Fadher hnitfli art in hcven halloed bi dhyi nam, dhyi cingdym cym, dhy

Milton.

That is, that f articular fruit, and this tvorld in ivhich iiiie live.
So, He giveth fodder for the cattle, and green herbs for the ufe of
man ; that is, for thofe beings that are cattle, and his ufe that

Many words are nfed without articles

;

D'ryden.

I

as,

1. Proper names, as John, Alexander, Longinus, Arijlarchus,
ferufalem, Athens, Rome, London. GoD is ufed as a proper name.

2.

AbftraA names, as blacknefs, nuitchcraft virtue, vice, beauty,
,

uglinefs, love, hatred, anger, good-nature, kindnefs,

•ni bi dyn in erth as it is in heven, ic.

3.

Words in which nothing but the mere being of any thing

implied : This

is not beer, but water : this is not brafs, but
We have finee had no general reformers ; but fome ingenious men have fleel.
endeavoured to deferve well of their country, by writing bcmr and iaior for
iimur and Uinur, rtd for riad in the preter-tenfe, ja'is (or Jay t, rtfett for rtfeai,
txf'.am for ixflam, or dutamt for dicta'm.
Of thefe it may be laid, that as they
have done no good, they have done little harm
; both bccaufe they have innoThe relations of Englilh nouns to words going before or folvated little, and becaule few have followed them.

is

Of Nouns

The Englilh language has properly no dialefls

the ftyle of writers has no
profeffed diverfity in the ufe of words, or of their flexions, and terminations,
differs but by diflferent degrees of (kill or care.
The oral diiftion is uniform
is no fpacious country, but has lefs variation in England than in moft other
nations of equal extent.
The language of the northern counties retains many
word* novv out of ufe, but which are commonly of the genuine Teutonick
lace, and is uttered with a pronunciation which now fccms harlh and
;

or

rough,
but wai probably ufed by our anceftors. The northern fpcrch is therefore
not
barbarous but obfoletc.
The fpcech in tiic wcftern provinces fecms to differ

Xrom the general diflion rather by a depraved ptunwicistioD,
thao by any real
4iS<T<i)ce which JctKn would cxprcii.

Substantives,

lowing, are not exprelfed by cafes, or changes of termination,
but as in moft of the other European languages by prepofitiont,
unlefs we may be faid to have a genitive cafe.
Singular.

Nom.

Magifter,

Gen.

Magillri,

a Mailer, the Mailer.
of a Mailer, of the Mailer, or Mailers,

Dat.
Ace.
Voc.
Abl.

Magillro,

to a Mailer, to the Mailer.

the Mallert.

Magillrum,

a Mailer,

the Mailer.

O Mafter.
Magillro, from » Mafter, from tbt Mailer.
Magifter,

Mafter,

Plural.

A

GRAMMAR OF THE
The ComparifoH of AdjeSllves.

Plural.

Nom.

Magillrl,

Gen.

Magillrorum,

Dat.
Ace.
Voc.
Abl.

Magiftris,
Magiftros,
Magiftii,
Magiftris,

Madcrs, the Matters.

Gen. Matters.
Cen. Scholars.

Scholar,

the fuperlative by adding

iwefl ;

Matters, the Matters.
Matters, O Matters.
from Matters, from the Matters.

Our nouns are therefore only declined thus
Matter,

The comparative degree of adjeftives is formed by adding «•,

e/"Mailfrs, of the yiiAex%.
to Mailers, to the Matters.

:

but this cannot be the true original,

bccaufe 's is put to femile nouns, ff^anan's htauiy ; the Virgin' t delicacy ; Haughty
mfilence, the multitude'' t felly ; in all thefe cafes it is apparent that his cannot be

We fay liiccwifc, thefouitdaiion'sjlrengih, the diamord's lujire, the

may be underftood, he and bis having
tormirly been applied to neuters in the place now fupplied by it and its.
The learned and fagacinus Wilis, to whom cveiy Engliili grammarian owes a
but in thefe cafes

bis

tribute of reverence, calls this modification of the
1

noun an adjeHiv: Ix.JJiJJlvc ;
think with no more propriety than he might have applied the fame to rhe geni-

tive in iqultuin decus, Trjte oris, or any other Latin genitive.

Dr.Lowth, on the
Other part, fuppofes the pofTelfive pronouns i«i«r and thir:t to be genitive cafes.
This termination of tnc noun feems to conftitute a leal genitive indicating
pofleflion.
It is derived to us from thofe who declined rmi8, afmiih; Gen.
.r.TlScp, ofafmith ; t'lur. J-mxiScJ-, or rmi8aJ-,_/»H»i>j ; and fo in two other of
tlicir fevcn decletiHons.
It is a further confirmation of this opinion, that in the old poets both the
genitive anj plural were longer by a fyliable than the original word ; kiitis, for
knight's, in Chaucer ; Uavis, for haves, in Spenfcr.
When a word ends in s, the genitive may be tile fame with the nominative, as
Vertis Temple.

The plural is formed by adding /, as table, tables
fifler,fij}ers ;

founded, as after ch,
I'lkej ; the

;

fly, flies ;

ivoods ; or es where s could not other^vife be

•vjood,

s,

Jh, x,

a ;

fweet^ ; lotti,

Some comparatives form a fuperlative by adding tnofl,

^/»'i unrtltntmg bate : and collcflivc nouns, as fVomcn's paffant, the rahik't
underftood.

fweet^r,

Some words are irregularly compared ; as good, better, hcjl ;
bad, eworfe, tvorfi ; little, lifs, leaft ; near, nearer, next ; much,
more, moj} ; many (or mce), more (for moer), mofl (for moeji') ; late,
later, latefl or laj}.

Thcfe genitives are always written with i mark of clifion, majier't, fcholar's,
according to an opinion long received, tliat the '» is a contraction of hit, as the

lyinter's ftvcrity ;

to the pofitive ; as fair, fairer,

lower, \cwfjl ; high, liighrr, high;-/?.

Plur. Matters.
Tlur. Scholars.

foldier't valour, for ihifild'ier his vaUur i

efl,

lo--jely,\ost\\er, loveli^y? ; /ivtv/,

after c founded like s,

and g

mute e is vocal before s, as lance, lances ; outrage,

tut rages.

as

nether, ncthcrmofl ; outer, oiUermofi ; under, undermofl ; up, upper,

upper mojf ; fore, former, for emoji.

Moft is fometimes added to a fubftantive, as topmoft , fiuthmoft
Many adjeftives do not admit of comparifon by terminations,'
and are only compared by more and mojl, as benevolent, mart
bene'volent , moft benevolent.

All adjeiSives may be compared by more and m»ft, even when
they have comparatives and fuperlatives regularly formed ; as
fair ; fairer, or more fair ; faireft, or moft fair.
In adjectives that admit a regular comparifon, the comparative mive !< oftener
ufed than the fuperlative rmfi, as more fair is oftener written lotfairer, than molt
fair for faircf.

The comparifon. of adjeftives is very uncertain and being
much regulated by commodioufnefs of utterance, or agreeable;

nefs of found, is not eafily reduced to rules.

Monofyllables are commonly compared.
Polyfyllables, or words of more than two fyllables, are feldom
compared otherwife than by more and moft, as deplorable, tnort
deplorable, moft deplorable.

Diflyllables are feldom
as fiilfome,

toilfome ;

compared if they terminate in feme,

in ful,

as

careful, ffleenfiil, dreadful ; in

ing, as trifling, charming ; in ous, as porous ; in lefs, as carehfs,
harmlefs ; in ed, as luretched ; in id, as candid ; in al, as mortal

The formjtion of the plural and genitive fingular is the fame.

in enf, as recent , fer'vent ; in ain, as certain ; in ive, as mijjive ;

A few words yet mak.e the plural in a, as men, nvotncn, oxen, fwine, and more

XTsdy, zs luoody ;

This fjrmation is that which generally prevails in the

anciently eyin -^ni finon.

Xeutonick dialects.

vn. ff, as pttfly ; in ^Vj is.rociy, except IticHy
;
in my, as roomy ; in ny, asjkinny ; in py, as ropy, except happy ;

in ry, as hoary.

Words that end in /"commonly form their plural by -ves, as
haf, loaves ;

calf,

calves.

Except a few, muff, muffs ; chitf, chiefs. So bttf, reof, frtKf, relief, mifcbief,
fuff, cuff, dwarf, handkerchief, grief.
Irregular plurals are teeth from tmib, Hce from hufe, mice from mcufe, ge.fe
{com gotfe, feel from/of-r, dice from die, fence Uom penny, br^:hren from brother,
children from child.

Plurals -ending in s have for the moft part no genitives ; but

we fay, Womens excellencies, and ff''ei^h the mens ivits again/l the
ladies hairs.

Sojtady is compared by Milton.
She '\t\padieji covert hid,

Tun'd her ooCturnal note.

Faradife Lojt.

And virtuws.
What (he wills to fay or do.

Pope.

Dr. Wallis thinks the Lords' hmfe may be faid for the houjt if Lords ; but fuch
phrafes are not now in ufe ; and furcly an Englilh ear rebels againll them. They
would commonly produce a troublefome ambiguity, as the L'.rd's buufe may be
the beuje of Lords, or the houfe of
Lord. Belidcs that the mark of clifion is
-x

in>proper, for in the Lords' houfe nothing is cut off.

Some Englifli fubftantives, like thofe of many other languages, change their
Rm,
Hone's ; hero, heroine.
To thefe mentioned by Dr. Lowth may be added arb'iirefs,
tarr.iinatjon as they exprefs diftei ent fexcs, as prince, princefs ; alJor, aSrcfs ;

ehaunlrejs, duchefs, ligrefs, governefs, tuirefs, pecrefs, authorefs, traytrefs,
perhaps others.
Of thefe variable terminations we have only a fufficient

poetifs,

and

Some comparatives and fuperlatives are yet found in good writers, formed
without regard to the foregoing rules : but in a language fubjeCted fo little and fo
lately to grammar, fuch anomalies mull freijuently occur.

number to make us feel our want ; for when we fay of a woman that flie is a
ph'tUfpher, an ajlroncmer, a builder, a iveaver, a dancer, we perceive an impropriety in the terminatii'n which we cannot avoid ; but we can fay that (he is an
trehiliH, a hotaniJI, ifudtni, becaufe thefe terminations have not annexed to
tinm tlie notion of (ex. Jn words which the nece(rities of life are often requiring, the fex is dift.njuilhcd not by different terminations, but by dift'ercnt

names, as, a bull, a conu ; a hcrfe, a mare ; eijuus, ejua ; a cock, a hen j and fometimes by pronouns prefixed, as a he.goai, u (kc-goat.

Of Adjectives.
Adjeflives in the finglifti language are wholly indeclinable
having neither cafe, gender, nor number, and being added to
fubftantives in all relations without any change ; as a good woman, good luomen, of a good nuoman ; a good man, good men, of
good men.

Seems wifefl, virtutujeji, difcreetcft, bell.

Paradije Lefl.

So trifing, by Ray, who is indeed of no great authority.
it is not fo decorous, in refpeCl of God, that he (hould immediately
do all 'the meaneft and trifingrj} things himfclf, without making ufe of
any inferior or fubordinate minider.
Ray on the Creation.
Famous, by Milton.
1

(hall be

nam'd among the famoufcjl

Of women, fung at folemn fellivals.

Milton's Agtniftes.

by jijcham.
Thofe have the invent'eveft beads for all purpofes, and roundell tongues

In-vent'nie,

in all matters.

uijebam's Schoolmafier.

Mortal, by Bacon.

The martalefl poifons praClifed by the Weft Indians, have fomc mixture
of the blood, fat, or flclh of man.
Bacon,
Natural, by Wottos.
I

will now deliver a few of the properefl and naturolkfi confiderations

that belong to this piece.

Wotlon's Arcbitcciure.

IVretehed, by Jonfon.

The ivretcheder are the contemners of all helps j fuch as prefuming on
own naturals, deride diligence, and mock at terms when they un-

tiieir

dcrdand not things.

Ben fonfm.

Vnverful, by Milton.
We have fuftain'd one day in doubtful fight,
What heav'n's great King hath f.w'rfifl.'eji to fend
Paradije Lcfi,
Againft us from about his throne.

The

ENGLISH TONGUEi
The term!«»t!on \n !Jh any be acceunteJ In fome fort 9 degree of comparifon,
by which the fignlnca.ioa is diminiihed below the poficive, as ilacky black'ijhy or
they therefore
tending to bbcknefs ; jah,Jahijk, or having a little tafte of fait
admit no comparifon. This termination is fddom added bntto words expreiling
fenfible qualities, nor often to words of above one fy)Uble, and is fcaredy ufed
io the foiemn or fubiimc llyle.

Singular.
Si

Plural.

This

Thefe
Thofe
Others

:

In all cafes, <

'

as / huvcfent other korfes.

Pronouns, in the EngHfti language, are, /, thtu, be, with fHeir
plurals, ttie, ye, they ; it, ivho, luhich, •what, ivhether, ivho/oe-ver

m/, mine, our, ours, thy, thine, your, yours, his, hir,

hers, their, theirs, this, that, other, another , ^x\\c fame , fame.

Singular.
Accuf. and other )

-^

AW.

Ye
You

nouns, ciun ^ndfelf.

Oiun is added to polTeflives, both lingular and plural, as my
It is emphatical, and implies a filent
contrariety or oppofition ; as / li^ve in my oiun houfe, that is, not

Singular.

Plural.

in a hired houfe.

help, or not by proxy.

to perfonal pronouns, as himfelf, itfelf, themfel-ves.

Ouique.

Sfm

mafcuHnes.
TheL } ^^^^"^ "

Nom.

She

Thev 1

Ohl,que.

Her

Them }

It

which lignify, of this,,

&C. ofivhieh, inivhich, &C.

own hand, our own hciife.

Yi,u art my fr':ei:tt'

Its

in that,

•

Ysu is commonly ufed ia modern writers foryr, particularly in the language of

Obliqut,

&c. of that,

and continued in ufe. The reft feem to be paffing by degrees
into negleft, though proper, ufeful, and analogous.
They arereferred both to lingular and plural antecedents.
There are two more words ufed only in conjunftion with pro*

cere:aonJr, where the fccond perfon plural is ufed for the fecond perfon fingular,

Nom.

thereupon, there-tuith, luhereof,

Therefore and ivherefore, which are properly, there for and
•where for, for that, for •which, are now reckoned conjunflions,

Us

Thou
Thee

Oblique.

in this,

Plural.

oblique caies. ]

Another, being only an other, has no plural.
Here, there, and 'where, joined with certain particles, have a
relative and pronominal ule.
Hereof, herein, hereby, hereafter,
•wherein, •ivherehy, luhereupon, ivhereivtth,

We

I

I have nctfint the fame horfcs, but others.

herei'jith, thereof, therein, thereby,

The pronoans perfonal are irregularly inflefted.
Nom.

Other
Whether

The plural ctbers is not ufed but when it is referred to a fubllantive preceding,

CyPRONOUNS.
<vibalfoen:er ,

That

^

rpi

{•

,

,•

.

r

•

Selfh added to pofleflives, as myfclf,yourfelves

•

;

ivithotit

and fometimes
It then, like

'^PP^'^'^ '° fem.nines.

own, exprefles emphafis and oppolition,

Applied to neuters or things.

tliat is, Mt another ^ or it forms a reciprocal pronoun,- as We
hurt oiirfel'ves by •vain ragi.

For // the praflice of ancient writers was

to ufe he,

and for

;//, his.

The poffeflive

This 1 did •with my OTvn band, that is,

pronCuns, like other adjeftives, are without

as

/ did this myfelf,

IVimfdf, itfelf, ibimfelves, are fuppofed by Wallis to be put, hy corruption, for
This feema
bit felf, it' JL-lf,. their fjvii ;. (a ihii felf is always a fubllantivc.
juilly obf:rved, for we- fay. He came himfif; Himftlffliall do this ; where himfelf

cannot be an accufatiTC*

cafes or change of termination.

The pofleflivk of the fitH perfoa is my, mine, our, tun ; of the
fecond, thy, thine, your, yours ; of the third, from he, his ; hoxajhe,
her, and hers ;

Of the V Z

V^

^.

Englifh verb* are afl.iv«, as / lo^ve ;. or neater, z.t.Lliinguif>t

and in the plural their^ theirs, for both fexes.

The neuters are formed like the aftives.
Ouri, yeurt, km, tle-rt, are ufed

by a ve;b, at T^^jirr our Ae«>i.

*hen the ftblantive preceding is fcparatcd
Theft kaki art van.
Your ebiUm tsKti oars

infijttirej hut ours Jurpajx yours tn /ei:rn'!Jig.

Can, yiuri, ten, ibtiri, notwithllanding their feeming plural termination,
are applied equally to Angular and plural fubltaotives, as, Ti!>;i hock ii ourt. Theft
betki are ours.

Mitu and ih'mt were formerly ufed before a vowel, as mine amUblthdy ; which,
though now difufed in profe, might be ftill properly continued in poetry : they are
ofed as tun and j'»r>, and are referred to a fubftantive preceding, as thy houfe is
larger than mine, but jny garden if more fpacioui than thim.

Mod verbs fignifying aClhn may likewife fignify condition or hebit, and becoms
neuters, a^ / love, 1

To ha^ve.

%ohatfoei:er.

Whofe
Gen.
Other oblique cafes. Whom

Gen. Of which, or whofe
Other oblique cafes. Which.

Which

am now llrilcing.

The pafiive voice is formed by joining the participle preterite

Pronouns relative ZKriuh*, -which, ivhat, tuhether, •who/oever,

Nom.

Iflrikc, I

to the fubftantive verb, as / am loved.

Their znd. theirs are the pofleflives likewife o{ they, when they
plural of ;>, and are therefore applied to things.

Sing, and Plur.

j

finitive of the aftive or neuter verb.

it the

Sing and Plur.
Who
Nom.

am in luvc

Verbs have only two tenfes inflefted in their terminations, the
prefent, and the fimple preterite ; the other tenfes are compounded
of the auxiliary verbs ha've, fhall, •will, let, may, can, and the in*

Indicative Moodi

Prefent Tenfe.
thou haft ; he hath or has ;

Sing.

I have

Fltir.

ire have ; ye have ; they have.

;

Hal is a termination corrupted from hath, hut now more frequently tt<cd botll'in verfe and profc.

Simple Preterite.

Wba is now ufed in relation to perfons, and ivhkb in relation to things but Sing. I had ; thou hadft ; he had ;
they were anciently confounded. At leatt it was common to fay, the roan Vfhlcb, Plur. We had
ye had ; they had.
;

;

though 1 remember no example of the thing lubo,
Whaft if rather th« poetical than regular genitive of vihkb :.

The fruit

Compound Preterite.
I have had ; thou haft had he has or hath had
Flur. We have had ; ye have had ; they have had.
Sing.

Of that forbidden tree, ivbefe nwrtal tafie
Brought death into the world.

Mitlon,

;

PreterpluperfcS.
H^tbtr is only ufed in the nominative and accufative cafei and has nc plural,
being applied only to on< of a number, commonly to one of two, as Whether of Sing. I had had ; thou hadft had ; he had had ;Whether flyall I tboofe ? It Is now almod obfolete.
Ihtfi ij lift liitvtu not.
Plur. We had had ; ye had had ; they had had.
;

What, whether relative or interrogative, is without variation.
IVhofoe'ver, nvhatfoever , being compounded of who 01 "what,
zadfoevcr, follow th« rule of their primitives,

Future.

I (hall have ; thou (halt have ; he fliall have ;
Plur. W( (hail have ; yt (hall have ; they Ihall have.
Sing.

GRAMMAR OF THE

A
SeetHd Futurt.
Slug.

J had loved, ij(.
/ will love, ^c.
J (hall bve, Wc

Preterpluperfeil.

I will have ; thou, wilt have ; be will have ;

Future.

.

Plur. IVe will have ; ye will have ; they will have.

Imperative.

By Tudiog thele future tcnfci may be obfenred the vuiationt t>{ Jball and
will.

Imperative Mood.
have thou ; let him have
Sing. Have,
Plur, Let HI have ; have, or have ye ; let them have,

Sing. Love, «r love thou ; let him love ;
love, or lovc>* ; let them love.

Plur.

Let atf love j

Sing.

I love ; thou love ; he love ;

Plur.

We love

Conjunftive.

w

Conjunflive Mood.

ye love ; they love.

;

Preterite fimple, as in the Indicative.
Preterite compound.
I have loved, l^c.

Prefetit.

%

Sing, I have ; thou have ; he have ;

I (hall love, i^c.

Future.

I fliall have loved, tic.

Second Future.

Plur. We have ; ye have ; they have.
Preterite fimfle as in the Indicative.

Potential.
Prefent.

Preterite compound.

Sing,

I have had ;

Preftnt.

I may or can Iwe, t5ff.

Preterite,

/^eu have had ; he have had ;

/might, could, «r (hould Iove,£sf<-.

J might, could, or (hould have loved, fcff.

Double Preterite.

Plur. Ife have had ; ye have had ; they have had.
Infinitive.

Sing,

Prtfent.

I (hall have ; as in the Indicative.

To love.

To have loved.

Preterite.

Loving.

Participle prefent.

Participle paft.

Loved.

Second Future,
Sing.

Plur.

I (hall have had thou (halt have had ; be (hall have had ;
We (hall have had ; ye (hall have had j they (hall have had.
;

The palTive is farmed by the addition of the participle preterite to the diiFerent tenfes of the

verb to be, which muft there-

fore be here exhibited.

Potential.

Indicative.

The potential form of fpeaking is expre(red by may, can, in
the prefent ; and might, could, or Jhould, in the preterite, joined
with the infinitive mood of the verb.

I am ; thou art

Prefent,

he'u;
Plur. We are, or be ; ye are, or be ; they are, or be.
Sing.

;

The plural tc is now Uctle in ufe.
Pre/ent,

Sing.
Plur.

I may have ;

thou mayft have ; he may kave{

We may have

;

ye may have; they may ha%'c.
Preterite.

;

I was ; thou waft, or wert ; A« wa« ;

Plur.

We were ; ye were ^ //^{y were.

fyeri is properly of the conjunflive mood,

I might have thou mighttt have he might have ;
Plur. We might have ; ye might have i they might have.
Sing.

Preterite.

Sing.

;

Preterite compound,

Sing. I can have ; thoa canft have ; he can have^

Plur.

We can have

;

ye can have ;

/have been, lie-.

I had been,

Preterpluperfea.

Prefent.

and ought not to be ttfed !a the

indicative.

l^c.

Future. I (liall or will be, i£c.

they can have.

Preterite.

Sing, /could have ; thou couldft have ; be could have;
We could have ; ye could have ; they could have.

Imperative.
be ;

Sing.

Be thou

Plur.

Letajbc; be_;v ; Xttthemhe,

Sing.

I be

Plur.

We be ;

Sing.

I wpre ; thou wert

Plur.

We were

let him

;

J'lur.

In like manner Jhould is united to the verb.

There is likewife a double preterite.
Sing. I Ihould have had ; thou (houldll have had ; be Ihould have
had
Plur.

We

;

(hould have had ; j'f ihould have had ; they Ihould have

Conjunftive,
;

Prefent,

thou beeft ; ^^ be ;
_;'^

be ; they be.
Preterite,

;

;

he were;

ye were ; they were.

had.

In like manner we ufe,

/ might have had ; / could have had,

Preterite compound. /Jiave been, ^r.

Future. I (hall have been, ^r.

iSc.
In(inttive Mood.

Prefent.

To have.

Participle pT ifent.

Preterite,

Having.

PotentiaJ.

To have had.

Partiiiple preler.

Had.

/ may er can ; would," could, or (hould be ; could, would,
(hould have been, tSc,

w

Infinitive.

Verb Aftive.
Indicative.

"

To lovt.
Prefent,

Sing, /love; //^ox loveft ; /v loveth, or loves j
Plur. We love ; ye love ; they love.

Prefent,

To be.

Preterite.

Participle prefent. Being,

PalTive Voice.

/ an loved, lie.

To have been.

Participle preter.

Having been.

Indicative Mood.

I was loved, ^c

I have been loved, He.

Prefer in Jimple.

Sing,

/loved; fltoM lovedll ; Af loved;

Plur.

We loved

;

ye loved ; they lo\'ed.

Prettrperfeit compound.

I have loved, ^u

Conjunftive Mood.
If /be loved, ^f.
loved, He,

If / were loved, He,

If /ftiall have been
Potential

ENGLISH TONGUE.
There Is another manner of ufing the aftive participle, which gives !t a paji

Potential Mood,

/may er can be loved, tfr . / might, could, er (hould be loved,
i^c /might, could, er fliould have been loved, (sfc^

as, The grammar is now printing, graixmauca jam tiun
The brals is forging, <rrj cxcuduijiur. This is, in my opinion, a vitious exprcflion, probably corrupted from a phrafe more pure, but now

five

fignificarion

fomewhat obfolete

Frtfent.

To be loved.

Preteriie.

:

The took it a printing. The brafs is a forging a being proand forging verbal nouns fignifying ailion, according to
;

perly at, and printing

Infinitive.

Participle.

:

charlis mprimilur.

To have been loved.

Loved.

There is another form of Engli(h verbs, in which the infinitive

mood is joined to the verb do in its various infledions, which are

the analogy of this language.
The indicative and conjunflive moods are by modern writers frequently confounded, or rather the conjunftive is wholly neglefted, when fome convenience
It is ufed among the purer writers of
of verCfication does not invite its revival.

former times after if, though,

ere, before,

till

or until, -whether, except, un/eft,

•whatjofver, luhomfeever, and words of wifhing ; as, Doubilefs ihou art our father,
though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Ifael acknowledge us not,

therefore to be learned in this place.

0/"Irregular Veres.
To Do;

The Englilh verbs were divided by Ben Jonfon into four conIndicative.
Sing,

Flur.

Prefent,

jugations, without any reafon arifing from the nature of the language, which has properly but one conjugation, fuch as has been

I do ; thou doft ; it doth
IVeioijieio; they do.
PreterUf,

Sing. I did ; thou didll ; he did ;
Plur. We did ; ye did ; they did.

/ have done, tsfc.

Preterite, i^c.

/had done, ^c,

Future. I Ihall or will do, ^c.

Our verbs are obferved by Dr. Wallls to be irregular only in the formation of
Indeed, in the fcantinefs of our conjugations,
the preterite, and its participle.
there is fcarcely any other place for irregularity.

Imperative.
Sing.

Do thou

;

exemplified ; from which all deviations are to be confidered as
anomalies, which are indeed in our monofyllable Saxon verbs,
and the verbs derived from them, very frequent ; but almoft all
the verbs which have been adopted from other languages, follow
the regular form.

let him do;

The firft irregularity is a (light deviation from the regular
the laft pliaform, by rapid utterance or poetical contraction
ble ed is often joined with the former by fuppreffionof ^ ; as lov^d
for loved ; after c, cb,fh,f, k, x, and after the confonantsy", th,
when more ftrongly pronounced, and fometimes after m, n, r, if
preceded by a fhort vowel, / is ufed in pronunciation, but very
feldom in writing, rather than d ; as plac't, fnatch't,fjh^t, vjak't,

Flur. Let ut do; ioye; let them do.

:

Conjunftive.
Sing.
Plur.

Preftnt.

/ do ; thou do ; ^* do

We do sye do; they do.

The reft are as in the Indicative.

To do

to have done.
Doing. Participle preter. Done.

dvL-eV t , fmel' t ; (or plac'd,/aatch'd,fljh'd, ivak'd, dwel'dffriel'd i

Do is fometimes ufed fuperfluoufly, as / do love, /did love;

terite in /, even in folemn language ; as crept, felt, divelt,
fometimes after *, ed is changed into /, as vext ; this is not con-

Infiniti've.

Participle prefent.

;

fimply for / love, or / loved; but this is confidered as a vitious
mode of fpeech.
It is fometimes ufed emphatically; as,

ftant.

A long vowel is often changed into- a Ihort one

/ do love thee, and vihen I love thee net.

flept, vjept, crept, f-wept ;

Chaos is come again.

to creep, Xo/iueep.

Shakefpeare.

It is frequently joined with a negative ; " as / like her, hut I
do not love her ; I vjijhed him fuccefi , but did not help him. This,

by cnftom

or placed, fnatched,fl/hed, vjaked, divelled , fmelled,
Thofe words which terminate in / or//, or p, m^ke their pre-

at leaft,

appears more eafy than the other form of

;

thus, kept,

from the verbs, to keep, Xajleep, to vieep,

Where </ or / go before, the additional letter d or /, in thii
contrafted form, coalefce into one letter with the radical d ox t ;
if/ were the radical, they coalefce into / ; but if a' were the ra>
dical, then into d or t, as the one or the other letter may be
more eafily pronounced as read, kd,fpread, fhed, fhred, bid, hid,
chid, fed, bled, bred,fped,f}rid,Jlid, rid; from the verbs to read,
to lead, tofpread, to Jhed, to /bread, to bid, to hide, to chide, to'

cxpreffing the fame fenfe by a negative adverb after the verb, /
like her, but love her not.
The Imperative prohibitory is feldom applied in the fecond
perfon, at leaft in profe, without the word do ; as Stop him, but feed, to bleed, to breed, tofpeed, to firide, to flide, to ride.
And
do not hurt him ; Praife beauty, but do not dote on it.
thus, caft, hurt, coft, bitrji, eat, beat, fvjeet. Jit, quit, fmit, ivri',
Its chief ufe is in interrogative forms of fpeech, in which it is bit, hit, met, jhot ; from the verbs to cafi, to hurt, to ccfl, to
ufed through all the perfons ; as Do / live ? Doft thou Jlrike burfi, to eat, to beat, to f-weat, to fit, to quit, to fmite, to vjrite,
me? Do they rebel ? Did J complain F DidA thou love her? Did to bite, to hit, to meet, to fhoot. And in like manner, lent, fent,
:

So likewife in negative interrogations ; Do / not yet
griev!? D\d file not die ?
Do and did are thus ufed only for the prefent and fimple pre-

Jhe die ?

terite.

There is another manner of conjugating neuter verbs, which,
when it is ufed, may not improperly denominate them neuter
pajjivei, as they are inflefted according to the paffive form by the

help of the verb fubftantive

to be.

They anfwer nearly to the

reciprocal verbs in Frencli ; as

1 am rifen, furrexi, Latin ; Je me fuis leve, French,

I vjas vjalkedout, exieram ; Je m'etois promene.
In tike manner we commonly exprefs the prefent tenfe ; a;, I am going, to.
She is dying, ilia morilur. The temped is raging, /«nf
1 am grieving, ditto.
proctlla.
I am purfuing an enemy, brtji^m wjequor.
So the other tenfcs, as, tVt
vitr- -uialking, iluyx^nitn <«{iw»lWif, / havt iien v/olkirg, I had ittn walking,

&a^ or ivi/l bt 'walki'^z.
Vol. I.

rent, girt ;

from the verbs to lend, to fend, to rend, to gird.

The participle preterite or pafTive is often formed in en, inftead of ed ; as been, taken, given, flain, knovjn ;

from the verbs

lobe, to take, to give, to flay, to know.
Many words have two or more participles, as not only vuritten,
bitten, eaten, beaten, hidden, chidden, fhotten, chofen, broken ; but
likewife imit, hit, eat, beat, hid, chid, fhot, chofe, broke, arc promifcuoufly ufed in the participle, from the verbs to vurite, to
bite, to eat, to beat, to hide,

to chide, to fhoot, to cboofe, to break,

and many fuch like.
In the fame manneryoTt;^, fhevjn, hevin, movin, loaden, laden,
as well a.sfoiv'd, fhevi'd, hevj'd, moiv'd, loaded, laded, from the
verbs to yoTLu, to fhevi, to hevi, to movj, to load, or lade.
Concerning theie double participles it is difficult to give any
rule ;

but he ftiall feldom err

who remembers, that when a verb

has a participle diftinft from its preterite, as tf:riu, ivrote, ivritlen, that diftindt participle is more proper and elegaat, as Tite
I
iook
h

A

GRAMMAR OF THE
(hort, to flporten ; faft, t§ fsflen j white, te •wbiien
p
black, to blacken; hard, to harden ; foft, to /often.
From fubftantives are formed adjeilives of plenty, by adding
the termination y; as a loufe, lou/y ; wealth, 'wealthy ; healths
healthy ; might, mighty ; worth, 'worthy ; wit, 'witty ; luft, lufly ;

however ftrengthen ;

UWoie
ie*i is written, is better th»n Tin book is wrote.
may be oled in poetry ; at lead if we allow any authority to
perhaps
poets, who, in the exultation of genius, think therafclves
entitled to trample on grammarians.

There are other anomalies in the preterite.
Win, /fin, begin, Jnuim, ftriitt, ftick, ft'ig, fling, fling, ring,

1.

nuring, I'friiig, J'lving, drink. Jink, Jhrink, ftink, come, run,fiitd^
hind, grind, tuind, both in the preterite, imperfeft, and participle palfive, give -iich, /pun, begun, Jivum, flruck, ftuck, Jung,
Jhrunk, flunk,
flung, flung, rung, iorung,/prung,/'Wiing, drunk,J'unk,
And moft of them are
camt, run,fouhd, bound, ground, ivound.

formed in the preterite by a, as began, rang, Jang, fprang,
nh, and fome others ; but moft of thefe are now

alfo

water, luatery ; earth, earthy ; wood, a wood, 'woody ; air, airy j
a heart, hearty ; a hand, handy.
From fubltantives are formed adjeftives of plenty, by adding
the termination />//, denoting abundance; as }oy, Joyful ; fruit,
fruitj'ul ; youth, youthful; care, careful; ufe, uj'efuh, delight^
deligbtj'ul; p\twVj plentiful ; he\p, he/pfut.
Sometimes, in almoft the fame fenie, but with fome kind of
diminution thereof, the termin.ition fome is added, denoting
,

/oinetbing, or in/ome degree, ; as delight, delight/ome; game, game"
participle paflive likewife take en, as /ome; irk, irkj'ome ; burden, burdenjomei trouble, troublesome
i
J}ricken,flrucken, drunken, boundtn.
light, lightjome ; hand, handjome ; alone, lone/ome ; toil, tailjomt.

drank, came,

obfolete.

Some in the

2. Fight, teach, reach, Jeek, hejeech, catch, buy, bring, think,
make fought, taught, raught, Jought, bejoughl, caught,

rtvork,

On the contrary, the termination le/s added to fubltantives,
makes

adjectives

fignifying want; as ivorthle/s, ivitlefj, heart'

le s, joyleji, careUfs, helflefu
Thus comfort, ccmfortlefs ; fap,
bought, brought, thought, 'wrought.
But a great many of thefe retain likewife the regular form, faple/s.
Privation or contrariety is very often denoted by the paras teached, reached, bejeeched, catcbed, tvorked.
ticle «« prefixed to many adjedtives, or in before words derived
break,
ak,
axvake,
luake,
fland,
Jp.
3. Take, jhake, forjake,
from the Latin ; as pleafant, unpleafant ; Wife, univife ; profithear , fljear ,JiMear , tear, t.\iear,iuea've, cleave, flrive, thri-ve, drii/e,
able, unprofitable ; patient, impatient.
Thus unworthy, unhealthy,,
Jhine, rije, arije, Jmile, ivrite, bide, abide, ride, cbooje, chuje,

tread, get, beget, forget, feethe, make in both preterite and participle tookr Jhook, forjook, woke, awoke , flood, broke, Jpoke, bore,Jhorc,

Jwore, tore, 'wore, 'wo've, clove, flrove, thro<ve, dro've, Jhone, rofe,
aroJe,Jmote, lurote, bode, abode, rode, choje, trode, got, begot, forBut we fay likewife, thri-ve, riJe, Jmit, ivrit, nbid,
In the preterite fome are likewife formed by a, as brake,
rid.
got, Jod.

/pake, bare, Jhare, /-ware, tare, 'ware, clave, gat, begat, forgat,<
and perhaps fome others, bit more rarely. In the participle
paflive many of them are formed by en, as taken, /haken, J'orJaken, broken, Jpoken, born, Jhorn, J'worn, torn, 'worn, 'wo'ven,

unfruitful, unufeful, and many more.

The original Englifh privative is un;

but as we often borrow from the Latin,
defendants, words already fignifying privation, as mtffcac'avs, ttnf'aut^
mi't/rcet, the inleparable particles un and in have fallen into confufion, froia
which it is not cafy to dilentangle them.
Un is prefixed to all words "orginally EngUih ; as untrue, untruth, uniaugbtt

or

its

unkandfome.

Un is prefixed to all participles made privative adjcftives, as unfeeling, uruijpjting, unaided, unddigbud, unendeared.

Un ought never to be prefixed to a participle prefent, to mark a forbearance of
aftion, as unjighing ; but a privation oi habit, as unpitying.

Un is prefixed to moft fubftantives which have an Engliih termination, as un-

flo'ven, thri'ven, driven, rifen, fmitten, ridden, chojen, troddat, got-

fertilcneji^ unpcr/e&nefi, which, if they have borrowed terminations, take in or iw,

And many do likewife retain

una^ivc, incBl-vity.
In borrowing adjedtives, if we receive them already compounded, it is ufual
tojrctoin the partich prefixed, as indecent, inelegatt, impnJKr; but if we borrow
the adjcftive, and add the privative particle, w,; commonly prefix un, as unfdite,

ten,

begotten, forgotten, fodden.

the analogy in both, as 'waked, a'waked, /beared, txiectved, lea-ved,
abided, feet bed.
4. Gi've, bid, fit, make in the preterite ga've, bade, fate; in
the participle paflive, giijen, bidden, fitten ; but in both lid.

Dravj, ino'w, gro'w, throtv, bloiu,

5.

croi.u

like a cock, fly,

Jlay, Jee, ly, make their preterite dre'w, kne'w, greiv, threvo,
hienu, crevi, flc'w, fle'v>,Ja'w, lay; their participles paflive by »,

dra'wn, knovjn, gro'wn, thro'wn, blovjn, flotvn, flain, Jeen, lien,
lain.
Yet from flee is made fled; from go, -went, from the old
nxiend, the participle is gotie.

Of Derivation.

as infertility, inpir/e^fion ; uncivil, incivility ;

ungaltant.

The prepofitive particles dit and mis, derived from the det
and mes of the French, fignify almoft the fame as un ; yet dis
rather imports contrariety than privation, fince it anfwers to
the Latin prepofition de.
Mis inCnuates fome error, and for
the moft part may be rendered by the Latin words male or ferperam.
To like, to diflike ; honour, di/honour ; to honour, to

grace, to di/honour, to di/graei; to deign, to di/deign; chance,
hap, mi/chance, mipap ; to take, to miflake ; deed, mi/deed
to ufe,

Th»( the Engli(h language may b« more eafily underftnod, it is ntccflary to
encjuire how its derivative words are deduct from their primitives, and how the

apply.

primitives are borrowed from other languages.

fame

fometimes copy Dr. Wallis, and f«mctimes endeavour to fupply his dei'"efts, and recIn this enquiry I

fhall

tify his errouts.

Nouns are derived from verbs.

The thing implied in the verb, as done or produced, is commonly either the prefent of the verb;

as tolove, /e-uf ;

to fright,

^fright; to fight, 3i.flght; or the preterite of the verb,
flrike, I ftrick or ftrook, zflroke.

as, to

,

to

tHifufe ;

to

employ,

to

mifemploy ; to apply, to mij-

Words derived from Latin written with de or dis retain the
fignification ; as diflingui/h, diftinguo ; detraS, detraho
j
de/ame, defamo ; detain, detineo.
The termination ly added to fubftantives, and fometimes to
adjedives, forms adjeftives that import fome kind of fimilitudc

or agreement, being formed by contraftion of lick or like.
giant, giantly , giantlike ; earth, earthly ; heaven, beavtiilyi

A

\vot\6., ivorldly ;

God, godly; good, goodly..

The fame termination ly added to adjeftives, forms adverb*

The aftion is the fame with the participle prefent, as loving,
frighting, fighting, flriking.
The agent, or perfon afting, is denoted by the fyllable er
added t« the verb, as lo'vcr, fighter, flriker.
Subllantives, adjeftives, and fometimes other parts of fpeech,

of like fignification ; as beautiful* beautifully ; fweet, fweetly ;
that is, in a beautiful manner ; 'with fome degree ofjhveetnejs.
The termination ijh added to adjeftives, imports diminution;
and added to fubftantives, imports fimilitude or tendency to a
charader; as green, greeni/h ; white, 'whiti/h ; ioit, fofti/h; a
are changed into verbs
in which cafe the vowel is often thief, thievi/h; a wolf, •wol'viflj; a child, childi/h.
kngthened, or the confonant foftened ; as a houfe, to houfe ;
We have forms of diminutives in fubftantives, thotigh not
brafs, to braze; glafs, to glaze; grzis, to graze ; price, to prize ; frequent; as a hill, a hillock;
a cock, a cockrtl; a pike, a
breath, to breathe; a filh, to fi/h ; oil, to oil; further, to fur- pickrel; this is a French termination: a goofe, a
gofiing; this
ther ; forward, to forward ; hinder, to hinder.
is a German rfrmination
a lamb, a lambkin ; a chick, a chicken ;
Sometimes the termination en is added, efpecially to ad- a man, a manikin ; a pipe, a pipkin and thus Halkin, whence the
jc£lives J 34 hafte, t» iaflen ; length, to lengthtn ; Jtrength, to
patroniniick, Havikini; Wilkin, Thomkin, and others.
:

:

\

'

I

Yet

ENGLISH TONGUE.
Yet ftUl there h »not1>«r fcrm of diminution among the Englilh, by leflening

the letters and the things fignified ; and therefore the founds t>f letters fmjller,
of vowels ; as there is a form of augmenting them (harper, louder, clofer, fofter, ftronger, clearer, n>nre obfcurc, and more ftridu'
by eolargingi or even lengthening it} and that fumetimcs not fo much by lotts, do very often intimate the like effefls in the things fjgnihed.
Thus words that begin with fr intimate the force and cffeft of the thinj
thange of the letters, as o? their pronunciation ; as fuf, Jif, jmf, Jif, fiffit,
lignified, as if probably derived from rjiwu/xi, orftrenuus; a jlrong, firergth^
where, bolides the extenuation of the vowel, there is added tlie French termination ft ; tif, up; ffit, Jfoui; hebt, baby ; baby, (iitaic, great pronounced long, Jtrew, jirike, flreah, jirote, flrife, /frive, /irif:, ftruggle, /irout, /Irut, firetch,
efpecially if with a llroDgcr found, grta-t ; /;Vf/f pronounced long, /«.?/; j ling, Jirait,firiB, ftreight, that is, narrow, di/fraiti, fircfi, Jiflrt/t, jlring, flraf, Jlream,
tang, long, imports a fuccelHon of fmaller and then greater founds; and fo in jireamer, /irand, /Irip, fray, jiruggle, frangc, /Iride, ftraddte.
St in like manner imply Itrength, but in a lefj degree, fo much only as is
jinglifjangU, tingle, tangle, am^ many other made words.
Much however if this ii arbitrary and fanciful, Aefcr.d'tng •wltlly on eral ut- fufficient to preferve what has been already communicated, rather than acquire
any
new degree } a» if it were derived from the Latin y?o for ixitnyk, /land, Jlay,
terance, and thcrifort fcarcely lucrihy the notice of ffallis,
chat is, to remain, or to prop; flaff, jlay, that is, to oppnk fnp, to
;
fluff,
concrete adjeftives are made abllraft fubftantives, by add- jl'fie, to /lay, that is, to flop; a flay, that is, an oh^zeXt:; flick, flut, flutter,
jiammer, flaggcr, flickh, flick, flake, a ftiarp pale, and any thing depofited
tir/t, and
few in booc/ or btacf,

tJw found

itfelf,

efpecially

••

Of

ing the termination

a
noting
at play ; /lock, flem, fling, to fling, flink, flitch, flud, j>,anchion, flub, ftubbU, t»
charafter or qualities ; as white, luhitenefs ; hard, harcinefs ; flub up,
flump, vihenctflumble, flalk, to flalk,flep, toflnr'f with the feet, whence
great, greatnefs ; flcilful, Jkilfulnefs , unjiilfuliiefs ; godhead, man- to flamp, that is, to make an impreifion and ^ iiamp ; flov:, to floiu, to bcfltrzv,
hood, maidenhead, luidetvbood, knighthood, priejihood, likelihood, fleward or floward, /had, fleady, flcadfafl, flahle, a flable, a flail, to flail, flool,
flail, flill, ftall, flallagc, flail, fiagc, fiiU adj. and fill adv. flak, flout, flmdy,
faljehood.
fleed, fleet, flalli'n,

\

flark-dcad,

to

with hunger or cold

flarvc
fliff,
; ftore, ftcel,
There are other abftrafts, partly derived from adjeftives, and
flem, fiancb, to Jianch blood, to flare, flctp, flecple, /iair,fliindard, a ftated meapartly from verbs, which are formed by the addition of the ter- '(are, flately. In ail thefe, and pcihapsi fome others, yi denote fomethirg £iia
mination th, a fmall change being fometimes made ; as long, and fixed.
Ter imply a more violent degree of motion, at ibrow, thnfi, throng, throb,
length; Arong, _firength.; broad, breadth; wide, ixidth ; deep,
through, threat, threaten, ttrall, thnwi,
depth; true, truth; v/3.rm, luarmth ; desLr , dearth ; How, fleavth ;
Wr imply fomc fi>rt of obliquity or dlftortion, as wry, to vjrcatie, wrejt,
merry, mirth ; heal, health; well, weal, ivealth; dry, drtughth ; tvrc/ik, lurhtg, wrong, wrinch, ivrench, wrangle, turinkle, wrath, wreak, xvrack,
yoaag, jcuth; 3.nd {o moon, month.
W'ltcb, •wr/t, wrap.
Sto impiy a filent agitation, or a fofter kiru}. of lateral motion ; as /way,
Like thefe are forae words derived from verbs ; die, death
till, tilth
mow, later tnoicth, after niovj'th /wag, to /way, /wagg^r, /wcrve, jnueat, /weep, jwHI, /wim, /wing, /wift , /weet,
grow, groimh
;

;

;

commonly fpoken and written later math, after math

;

Jiviich, Jivir.ge.

(leal,

Nor is there much djfterence of /« in fmootb, fmug, /mile, /mirk, /mite, which
bear, birth ; rue, ruth ; and probably earth from to fignifies the fame as to flrike, but is a fofter word Jmall, /mcll, /mack.Jmcihcr,
;
ear ot plonu; &y,J!ighti weigh, -wei^t ; flay, /right; to draw, Jmari, a /mart blow properly fignilie^ futh a kind of llroke as with an originally
filcnt motion, implied in /m, proceeds to »qulck violence, denoted by ar fuddraught.

Jiealth ;

denly ended, as is (hewn by t.

Tbcfc ^uld rather be written Jligbti, frighih, only that cuftom wiU no'
fuffer i> to be twice repeated.

The fame form retain faith, (fight, v/retlbe, wraib, troth, froth, breath,
J'xth, worth,

light,

ivigbi,

and the like, whofe primitives are either entirely
Perhaps they arc derived inta fey
v)ry,

CI denote a kind of adliefion or tenacity, as in cleave, clay, cling, climb,
clamber, clammy, cla/p, to cla//>, to clip, to clinch, cloak, clog, clo/e, to clo/e, a clod,

a clot, as a clot of blood, chuied cream, ercluitit, a elufler.

Sp imply a kind of diHipation or expanfion, efpecially a quick one, particii-

wreak, brew, m9U3,fry, bray, jay, vtcri*

if tliere be an r, aa if it were from fparpo, or /iparo t for example, /prcad,
f^ffg' jfig, /prout, Jprinkle, /plit, /plinter, /pill, /pit, /putter, /patter.
SI denote a kind of filent fall, or a lefs obfervablc motion ; as in Jlime, Jlidtt

Some ending in Jbip imply an office, employment, or condition ; as kingjhif, luardjhip, guardianfbip, partiurjhip , fieivard-

flip, flipper, fly, Jleight, fl:t, flow, flack, flight, fling, flap.
fo likcwife ajh, in cra/h, ra/b, gap, flalh, cla/h, lejh, fla/h, pla/h,

obfoletc, or feldom occur.

0'fy,Jfy,

Jhif, headfhip, lordjhip.
TTios wtrfi'ip, that is, vmtbpif ; whence vmjtiffu!, and to ten-jhif.

Some few ending in dom, rick, •wick, do efpecially denote
dominion, at leaft ftate or condition ; as kingdom, dukedom,
earldom, princedom, popedom, chriflendom, freedom, ivifdom, 'whore-

lariy

And

trap,

indicate fonicthing adjing more nimbly and (harply.
But u]h, in eru/h, rujh,
gujh, fiujb, blu/h, briifi, hu/b, pup, implies fumething as afling more obtufely

and duily. Yet in bjtli tlierc is indicated a fwlft and fudden motion, not inIhntajicous, but gradual, by the continued foundyS.

Thus in fling, fling, ding, /wing, cling, f.ng, wring, fling, the tingling of
the termination ng, and the tliarpnefs of the vowel j, imply the continuation of
a very ilendcr motion or tremor, at length indeed saniOiing, but not fuddenly

interrupted.
But in tir.k, wink, Jink, clink, chink, think, that end in a mute
dom, bijhoprick, hailyiuick.
confonant, there is alfo indicated a fudden ending.
It
there be an /, as in jingle, tingle, tinkle, mingle, /prinkle, twinkle, there is
Ment and age are plainly French terminations, and are of
the (ame import with us as among them, fcarcely ever occur- implied a frequency, or iteration of fmall adli. And the fame frequency of a£ls,
hut lefs fubtile by rcafon of the clearer vowel a, is indicated in jangle, tangle,
ring, except in words derived from the French, as commandj'pangle, mangle, tvrangle,
brangle, dangle ; as alfo in mumble, grumble, jumble,
tumhlt, flun<hU, rumble, crumble, fumble.
But at the fame time the clofc u implies fometliing obfcure or obtunded ; and a congeries of confonants rnbl, dcnotei

ment, u/age.
There are in Englifli often long train) of words

allied by their meaning and
f^ iw/, a bat, balcin, a battle, a beetle, a battle-door, id batter,
kind of glutinous compofition for food, made by beating different bodies into one mal's.
All thefe are of fimilar flgnification, and perhaps derived

derivation } as
batter, a

from the Latin latui:. Thus take, imh, tickle, tack, tackle ;
conjunSlofl, from the Latin tango, teiigi, taflum.

all

imply a local

From izi'o are formed tivain, twice, twenty, twelme, twins, twine, twill, tivirl,
fwig, twit,B, twinge, between, betwixt, twilight, twibil.

The following remarks, extraQci from Wallis, an ingenious, but of more
fnktlety than folidity, and fuch as perhaps might in every language be enlarged

without end.

a confufed kind of rolling or tumbling, as in ramble, /camble, /cramble, wamble,
amhle ; but in thefe there is fomcthing acute.
In nimble, the acutcnels of the vowel denotes celerity.
In /parkle, /p denotes
dilTipatioii, ar an acute crackling, k a fudden interruption, /a frequent iteration
j
and in like manner in /prinkle, unlefs in may impiy the fubtility of the diffi.
pated guttulcs.
Thick and thin differ, in tliat the former ends with an obtufc
confonant, and the latter with an acute.
In like manner, m/jucck, /jueak,/qucal, /quail, braul, wraul,yaul,/paul, /creek,
/hriei, prill, parp, privel, wrinkle, crack, crafl->, clap, gnap, pla/h, crup, hup,
l"Jp, fijjc, whifl, J'ft, jarr, hurl, curl, whirl, buz:, buflic, /pindle, dwindle, twine,
iwfl, and in many more, we may obfcrvc the agvcemcnt of fuch fort of founds
with the things fignified
and this fo freijuently happens, that fcarce /ny language
which 1 know can be compared viith ours. So that one monofyllabic word, of
which kind are almoft all ours, emphatically expreffes what in other language*
can fcarce be explained but by compounds, or decompounds, or fometimes a
tedious circumlocution.
:

Sn ufually imply the n<jft, and what relates to it.

From the

Latin nafu,
ire deriwd the French mn and the Englilh mfe ; and ne/fe, a promontory, ai
proj-.lir.
like a nnfc.
But as if from the cunlonants ai taken from ma/us,
an<i tri-iMfcd, that they may the better correfpond, /« denote nafui
ini
;
tlitnrc arc d'a'ived many words that relate to the nofe, as fnout, fneeze,
fnore,
fm-r, freer, Jmckir, jm*, Jneyil, fnke, huf, Jnuffle, fmifflc, Jnarle, fnudge.
There is another fn, which may perhaps be derived from the Latin Jinu}, as
fiuif, fneak, fnail, fnare ; (b likewife fnaf and /natch, /nib, /nub.
Bl imply a bh/} ; as A.'«ti, blafl, t(, bhji, to blight, and, metaphorically, to
Halt ones reputation ; bitat, bleak, a bleak place, to look bleak or wcather•

beatrn, bitak, thy, bleach, blufier, blurt, blijier, blab, bladder, bleb, bitfier, blabb-r-lit-t, blahh'r-chrtft, bl-jttd, bhte-herring!, blaji, blaM, ttblnu,
that is, bh/.

/on, ilo'.m i jnd prrhap, hlood and blu/h.

ia '.he nauvc worJ^ of vur wngue is to bt fwnJ

a great agreement between

We have many words borrowed from the Latin
greateft part of them

;

but the

were communicated by the intervention

of the French ; as grace, face, elegant, elegance, re/emble.
Some verbs, which feem borrowed from the Latin, are form*
ed from the prefent tenfe, and fome from the fiipines.
From the prefent are formed fpend, expend, expendo ; conJuce»
conduce ; defpi/e, defpicio ; approve, approbo ; conitiw, concipio.

h 2

from

A

GRAMMAR OF THE

From the Cv^Ims, /npfJicatt, fupplico ; dtmtnftraie, demonftro

lace,

place ;

rabula,

rail ;

rnel, viraul,

Irawf,

raile,

Irthh \

l]UiefitiO(

;

Jiff oft, difpono ; ixpatiaie, expatior ; /upprefs, fupprimo ; exempt,

cximo.
Nothing It more apparent, than diatWallis goo too far in quell of originals.

Many of tbefe which fcem felejted as immediate defcendanta from the Latin,
are appirentl; Ficnch, as conceive, affrtmt, exfofi, txcmft.

queft.

At alfo a confonant, or at lead one of 1 fofter found, or even a whole fyllable ; rotundus, round; fragilis, /rai/ ; fecurus, /vn ; regula, rule; tegula,
fubtilis, futtle ; nomen, noun ; decanus, dean ; computo, rntiir ; fubitancui, fuddain, foon ; fuperare, tofoar; periculum, ^^i/; mirabile, marvel; as
magnus, mo/R ; dignor, <fW^ii ; Xingo, JIain; tin3um, /.linr ; pingo, ^o>»; prx-

tile ;

dari, reach,

Some words purely French, not derived from the Latin, we
have transferred into our language as garden, garter, buckler, to
aJi'ttttce, to cry, to plead, from the French, Jardin,jartier, bouclier,
A-vancer, crier, plaider ; though indeed, even of thefe, part is of
Latin original.
;

As to many words which we have in common with the Germans, it is doubtTeutons borrowed them from the Latins, or the Latins
ftom the Teutons, or both had tlicm from fome common original ; as v)'tnt,

flU whether the old

vinum ; ixi'md, vcntus ; wf»f, veni ; icay, via ; •tvall, vallum ; ivalkia, volvo
vtilus ; lu'xll, volo ; imrm, vermis { u'tirtb, virtus ; waff, vefpa ; Jay,
dies; Sravt, traho ; tame, domo, i'(t/>caar; yoke, jugum, ^fDy*?; over, upper,
fuper, iir«; ; am, fum, Hfju ; ireji, frango ; fy, volo j ilc^v, flo.
I make no
tinol,

The contraftions may feem harder, where many of them meet, as xit^ioju;,
kyrk, church; prejbyter, frir/? ; facrillanus,y<x.'cn; frango, fregi, irrj>, irraii j
fagus, ^vya, beech ;
changed into b, and g into cb, which are letters near

f

a-kin; frigefco,yr«ai£; Wigeko, frefh, fc \n«> p, slz TAioyt in hifbcp, fijh, fo in
fcapha,^iy,yl(^, and refrigefco, refrejh ; butvirefcOj/r^; phlcbotomusjj^rain ;
bovina, huf; vitulina, vtal; fcutifer, fjuire ; pcenitentia, penance; fandtuarium, fanHuary, fentry ; qusfitio, chafe; perquifitio, purchaje; anguilla, «/;
Jnfula, ijle. He, iflar.d, i'anJ ; infuletta, iflet, u'el ; eyght ; and more contrafledly
ey, whence Ovijney, Ruhy, Ely ; ciaminare, to fan, namely, by rejeiling from
the beginning and end t and 0, accord'mg CO the ufual manner, the remainder
xamin, which tlie Saxons, who did not ufe *, write cfamen, or fcamen, is contracted into yr an ; as from dominus, don; nomine, noun; Ahomlno, ban ; and
indeed apum cxamen they turned into fciame ; for which we fay ftvjrme, by
inferting r to denote the murmuring ; thefaurus, fiore ; fedile, fiuol ; w'o;,

•uiet ; fudo, fweat
gaudium, gay ; jocus, joy ; fuccus, juice ; catena, chain j
;
doubt but the Teutonick is more ancient than the Latin; and it is no leff caliga, calga ; chaufe, chaulTe, Fr. hcfi ; extinguo, ftancb, fquencb, fucnchf
certain, that the Latin, which borrowed a great number of words, not only
ftint; (otii, forth; {fCcXts, fpice ; recito, read; adjuvo, aid; a\vi, a;vum, erff
from the Greek, efpccially the ^olick, but from other neighbouring languages, age, ever ; noccus, lock ; excerpo, fcrape, fcrahbU, fcratul ; extravagus,
flray,
a) the ©fcan and others, which have long become ohfolete, received not a few ftraggle; c.o\\t&\itn, clot, clutch; cnlligo, coil; recoUigo, recoil; feveio, fivear
;
from the Teutonick. It is certain, that the EngliOi, German, and other Teu- iWduluSj^ri//; procurator, ^roxy pulfo, ro /i»/!!> ; calamus, a quill; impetere,
;
tonick languages, retained fome derived from the Greek, which the Latin has to impeach; augeo, auxi, tv<ix; and vanefco, vanui, TJane
fyllabare, tofpelli
;
not ; as ex, aebs, mit, ford, pfurd, daughter, tocbter, mick/e, mingle, moon, puteus, ^ir; granum, ccrn compritno, cramp, crump, crumple, crinkle.
;
fear, grave, gra^, to grave, tojcrape, vjbole, from i^irn, /j^ira, ma^ixo^, ^yyar^f
Some may feem harOier, yet may not be reje^ed, for it at lead appears,
Since they received thefc immediate- that fome of them are derived from proper names, and there are others whofe
utyaXo^, fxiyfCv, fMr,m, ^^^ii, y^a'^ai, cXof.
ly from the Greeks, without the intervention of the Latin language, why may etymology is acknowledged by every body
as Alexander, Elick, Scanjer, San;
not other words be derived immediately from the fame fountain, though they be der, Sanny, Sandy; Eiizabetha, Eiixabeth, Elifaheth, Betty, Befi; Margareta,
likcwife found among the Latins ?
Margaret, Margct, Meg, Peg ; Maria, Mary, Mai, Pal, Malkin, Mawkin,
Matokcs; Matthaeus, Mattlu, Ma'tbew ; Martha, Matt, Pat; Gulielmus,
Our anceftors were ftudious to form borrowed words, however IVilhelmus, Cirolamo, Guillaume, miliam, fVitl, Bill, fTiUm, HHcken, fTicki,

long, into monofyllables ; and not only cut off the formative
terminations, but cropped the firll fyllable, efpecially in words
beginning with a vowel ; and rejefted not only vowels in the
middle, but likewife confonants of a weaker found, retaining the
Wronger, which feem the bones of words, or changing them for
others of the fame organ, in order that the found might become
the fofter ; but efpecially tranfpofing their order, that they might
the more readily be pronounced without the intermediate vowels.
For example, in expendo, _/5>Ma' ; txemp]um, /ample ; excipio,
/cape ; extraneus, grange ; extraftum, ^retch'd ; excrucio, to
/creiv i exfcorio, to/our ; excorio, to/courge ; excortico, to /cratch ;

and others beginning with ^jr

.•

as alfo,

emendo, to mend;

copus, hipop ; in Danifh, hi/p\ epillola, epi/ile;
tie J Hifpania, Spain ; hiiloria,y?(7ry.

epif-

hofpitale, /fit-

Many of thefe etymologies are doubtful, and fame evidently miftaken.
The following are fomewhat harder, Alexarier, Sander

;

Elifabeiha, Betty ;

apis, hee\ aper, bar\ p paOing into h, as in bijhop ; and by cutting off a from
the beginning, which is reftored in the middle : but for the old bar or hare,
We now fay hoar ; as for lartg, long ; for bain, bane ; for fiane, flcne ; aprugna,
braton, p being changed into b, and a tranfpnfed, as in afer, and g changed
intow, as in pignus, paton ; lege, latu ; iXoirnJ, fox; cutting off me beginning, and changing/! into f, as in pellis, a fell; pullus, a foal; pater, father;
pavor,y<ar ; polio, jf/V; pIco, impleo, _^//, /a//; pifcis,
and tranfpofing o
;
into the middle, which was taken from the beginning; apex, apiece; peak,
pike; zofhoia$, freeze; muftum, JIum; defenfio, fence; difpenfator, fpencer ;
afculto, efcouter, Fr. fcout ; exfcalpo, /(rape, redoring / indead of r, and hence
fhap, fcrahle, Icrawl; exculpo, /coop ; exterrltus, Jlart ; extonitus, attonitus,
fitnn'd; ftomachus, maw; o&etiio, fined ; obftipo, y7o)> ; audere, dare; cavere,
xvare; whenrc a-iuare, he-tvare, ivary, ivarn, warning, for the Latin .1/ con
fonant formeilv founded like our w, and the modern found of the v confonant
was formerly that of the letter y, that is, the i^o'.ick digamma, which had the
found of ^, and the modern found of the letter /"was that of the Greek ip or pb ;
ulcus, ulcere, ulcer^ fre, and hence ferry, jorrotv, jorrovjful; ingenium, engine,
gin; fcalenus, leaning, unlrfs you w.juld rather derive it from xXivv, v.-hence inclino ; infundibulum, funnel ; gagate:, jctt ; projeilum, to jctt forth, a jetty
cucullus, a civil.
There are fyncopes fomewhat harder; from tempore, time; from nomine,
Tame ; domina, eLtme ; as the French b-.mme, femme, r.om, fromlipminc, fceraina,
nomine. Thua pagina, page ; «roTn{im, pot ; tamtWa., cup ; cantharus, can ;
tentorium, lint ; precor, pray ; prxda, prey ; fpecio, fpeculor, Jpy ; plico, ply ;
implico, im^/y ; replico, rrf« ; complico, rom/i/y ; fedes epifcopalis,^v.
vowel is alfo cut off in the middle, that the number of the fyllable?
may be leffened ; ai aroita, aunt; fpiritus, ^ri^i/ ; dcbitum, debt; dubito,
tUnbt ; com^5, comitis, count ; ckticus, clerk ; quietus, ^uit, quite ; acquieto,

^i

A

(» Mf^t; feparo,

r« Jp<irt\

&al>ilis>

^uiU; lUbuluni; Jiable j fa^atiym^ pp-

fTeeh.

Thus cariophyllus, flos ; gerofilo, leal, giriflee, gilofer, Fr. gillifiovter, \vhich
the vulgar call julyfloiuer, as if derived from the month July ; petrofclinum,
parjley; portulaca, ^wr/Jjm ;cydonium, quince; cydoniatum, quiddeny ; perficum, peach ; cruca, eruke, which they corrupt to ear-viig, as if it took its
name from the ear annulus geminus, a gimmal, or gimbal ring and thus the
word gimbal and jumbal is transferred to other things thus interwoven ; quelques
;

;

Since the origin of thefe, and many others, however forced,
is evident, it ought to appear no wonder to any one if the ancients have thus
disfigured many, efpecially as they fo much affefted monofyllables ; and, to
make them found the fofter, took this liberty of maiming, taking away, changchofes, kickfbaivi.

ing, tranfpofing, and foftening them.

But while we derive thefe from the Latin, I do not mean to fay, that many
of them did not immediately 'come to us from the Saxon, DanUh, Dutch, and
Teutonick languages, and other dialedls, and fome taken more lately from the
French, or Italians, or Spaniards.
The fame word, according to its different Cgnifications, often has a diflferent
origin; »s to bear a burden, (com fero; but to bear, whence birth, born, bairn,
comes from pario, and a bear, at leaft if it be of Latin original, (com era,
Thas perch, a fifli, ftomperca; but perch, a meafure, from pertica, and likewife ro^frri.
To fpett is from Jyllaba ; hut fpell, an inchantmcnt, by which
it is believed that the boundaries are fo fixed in lands, that none can pafs them
againft the mailer's will, from expello ; and fpell, a me(Tenger, from epijlola ;

f

whence gofpel, good-fpell, or god-Jpell, Thus frcefe, or freexe, from frigejco ;
but /"«««, an architeflonic word, from xophorus; bat freefe, for cloth, from
Frifia, or perhaps from frigefco, as being more fit than any other for keeping out
the cold.

There are many words among us, even monofyllables, compounded of two or
more words, at leaft ferving inftead of compounds, and comprifing the fignification of more words than one ; as from fcrip and roll, comes fcrcll ; from froud
and dance, prance
from ft of the verb Jlay, or Jland and c:a, is made/oar ;
from flout and hardy, flurdy ; from fp of fpit or fpevi, and out, comes fpout j
from the dmn fp, with the termination in, \% fpin; and iii\n%oul,fpin tut ;
and'from the Um&fp, with /'/, is fpit, which only differs ftom fpout m that it
;

is

fmaller, and with lei's noife and force ; but fputter

is,

becaufe of the obfcure

V, fomething between fpit and (pout ; and by reafon of adding r, it intimates
a frequent iteration and noife, but cbicurely confufed : whereas fpatter, on ac-

count of the (harper and clearer vowel a, intimates a more diftiniS noife, in
whiih it chiefly differs from fputter. From the dmefp, and the termination
ark, comas fpark, fignifying a fingle cmifiion of fire with a noife ; namely, j^
the cniiOion, ar the more acute noife, and k the mute confonant, intimates its
being fuddenly terminated ; but adding /, is made the frequentative fparkle.
The famc_y^, by adding r, that is fpr, implies a more lively impecus of diffufing
or expanding itfclf; to which adding the termination ing, it becomes J^rjn^ ;
its vigour fpr imports, its fiiarpnefs the termination ing; and lalHy in acute and
tremulous, ending in the mute confonant g, denotes, the fudden ending of any
motion, that it is meant in its primary fignificatioo, of a finglr, not a complicated exilition.
Hence we call fpring whatever has an elallick force as
alfo a fountain of water, and thence the origin of any thing ; and to fpring,
:

to germinate J

and fpring, gnc vf Uis fpur f«afoasi

Froio ths faroc ^r and
tut,

ENGLISH TON.GUE.
U formed ffrtul, «nJ with tie termination ig, ffrig ; of which the following, for the moft part, is the difference: ffrout, of a groffer found, imports
a fatter or groffer bud ; fprig, of a tenderer found, denotes a fmaller (hoot.

Hit,

In like manner, from fir of the verb firhic, and out, comes firout 3ni firut.
From the fame fir, and the termination ugg/e, is made firuggle ; and this g
imports, but without any great noife, by reafon of the obfcure found of the
vowel u. In like manner from threw and nil is made troll ; and almoft in
Thus grajf or
the fame fenfe is trur:J!e, f")m thrciv or ttrufi, and ruitdle.
grcugb is compounded of grave and rough j and trudge from tread or trot, and

the former fyllable j as to defcant, a difcam
ment ; to contraB, a contraB,
This rule has many exceptions.

That Wallis's derivations are often fo made, that by the
1
fame licence any language may be deduced from any other.
2. That he makes no diftinftion between words immediately
derived by us from the Latin, and thofe which, being copied from
other languages, can therefore afford no example of tlie genius
of the Englifti language, or its laws of derivation.
3. That he derives from the Latin, often with great harftinefs
and violence, words apparently Teutonick ; and therefore, according to his ovyn declaration, probably older than the tongue
to which he refers them.
4. That feme of his derivations are apparently erroneous.
.

SYNTAX.

to timent, a

e^

Though verbs feldom have their accent ob

the former, yet nouns often have it on the latter fyllable; as, dtUght, ferfume^

4. All diflyllables ending in y, as cranny ; in aur, as labour,
in oou, as ivillo'w, 'walloiu, except allovj ; in le, as

favour ;

battle, bible ; in ijh, as
ter, as to batter ;

In thefe obfervations it is eafy to difcover great fagacity and
great extravagance, an ability to do much defeated by the deIt may be remarked,
fire of doing more than enough.

',

banijh ; in ck, as cambrick, caffock ; in
as fajien ; in et, as

in age, as courage ; in en,

quiet, accent the former fyllable.
5. DifTyllable nouns in er, as canker, butter, have the accent
on the former fyllable.
6. DifTyllable verbs terminating in a confonant and e final,
as comprije, efcape ; or having a diphthong in tlie laft fyllable,
as appeafe, reveal; or ending in two confonants, as attend, have
the accent on the latter fyllable.
7. DifTyllable nouns having a diphthong in the latter fyllable,
have commonly their accent on the latter fyllable, as applaufe ;
except words in ain, certain, mountain,
8. TrifTyllables formed by adding a termination, or prefixing
a fyllable, retain the accent of the radical word, as lavelinefs,

tendernefs, contemner,

iKagonner, phyfical, befpatter, commenting,

commending, ajjurance.
9. TrifTyllables ending in ous, as gracious, arduous ; in al, as
"1
capital ; in ion, as mention, accent the firfl.
10. TrifTyllables

ending in

ce,

ent,

and ate, accent the

firfl

fyllable, as countenance, continence, armament, imminent, elegant,

The eftabliflied praftice of grammarians requires that I ihould here treat of propagate, except they be derived from words having the accent
the Syntax; but our language has fo little inflexion, or varietj' of terminaon the laft, as connivance, acquaintance ; or the middle fyllable
Wallls
tions, that its conftruflion neither requires nor admits many rules.
hath a vowel before two confonants, as promulgate.
therefore has totally negleded it ; and Jonfon, whofc defire of following the
1 1.
TrifTyllables ending \ny, as entity, fpecify, liberty, vtBory,
writers upon the learneJ languages made him think a fycta^ indifpenfably neceflary, has publiihed fuch petty obfervatioiw ai weic better omitted.
fubfidy, commonly accent the firft fyllable.
1

The verb, as in other languages, agrees with the nominative in number and perfon ; as Ti/eu flUJi from good ; He runt to
death.

TrifTyllables in re or le accent the firfl fyllable, as legible,

fome words which have a pofuion,

as example, tpifile,
13. TrifTyllables in ude commonly accent the firfl fyllable, as

Our adjeAives and pronouns are invariable.

Of two fubftantives the noun poffefliye is the genitive

2.

theatre ; except difciple, and

plenitude.
;

as

His father's glory. The fun's heat.
verbs tranfitive require an oblique cafe ; as He lovet me ;
You fear him.
He gave this to me ;
All prepofitions require an oblique cafe
He took thii from me ; He fays this of me ; He came with me*

TrifTyllables ending in ator or atour, as creattur ; or hav1 4.
ing in the middle fyllable a diphthong, as endeavour; or 'a
vowel before two confonants, as domeflick, accent the middle
fyllable.

:

1

5

.

TrifTyllables that have their accent on the laft fyllable arc

commonly French, as acquiefce, repartee, magazine
or words
formed by prefixing one or two fyllables. to an acute fyllable, as
;

PROSODY.
It is

common

for thofe that deliver the

immature, overcharge.

grammar of modern languages, to

omit their Profody. So that of the Italians is negleded by Suemaitei ; that of
the French by Dejmarais ; and that of the Englifli by fyatlii, Cmfer, and even
by Jivfon, though a poet. But at the laws of metre are included in the idea
of a grammar, I have thought it proper to iafert them.

Profody comprifes orthoepy, or the rules
and orthometry, or the laws of verfification.

arrogating, continency , incontinently , commendable, commiinicablenefs

We fhould therefore fay difputable, indifputable, rather than difputable, indifputable ;

and advertifement rather than

advertife~-

ment.

17. Words in ion have the accent upon the antepenult, as
of pronunciation ; falvation, perturbation, concoBion ; words in atour or ator on the

Pronunciation is juft, when every letter has its proper
found, and when every fyllable has its proper accent, or, which
in Engliih verfification is the fame, its proper quantity.

The founds of the letters have been already explained ; and rules for the accent or quantity are not eafily to be given, being fubjeft to innumerable exceptioos.

16. Polyfyllables, or words of n»re than three fyllables, follow the accent of the words from which they are derived, as

Such howcTCi a> I have read or formed, I fliall here ptopote.

penult, as dedicator.
1

8.

Words ending in le commonly have the acceat on the firfl

fyllable, as amicable, unlefs the fecond fyllable have a vowel be-

fore two confonants, as comb'ujlible.

19. Words ending in ous
as uxorious, voluptuous.

20.

have the accent on the antepenult,

Words ending in ty have their accent on the antepenult,

as pujillanimity, aBivity.
1.

Of difTyllables formed by affixing a termination, the former

fyllable is commonly accented, as chiUiJh, kingdom, aHeJi, atled,
toilfome, lo'ver, fciffer, fairer, f'oremofl,

zealous, fulnefs, godly,

meekly, artijl.

formed by prefixing a fyllable to the radical
word, have commonly the accent on the latter ; as to beget, to
2. Diffyllables

tefeem, to hefotxi.
3. Of diffyllables, which arc at once nouns and verbs, the
verb haa commonly the accent on the latter; and ths noun on

Thefe rules arc not advanced an complete or infallible, but propofcd as ufefiiU
Almoft every rule of every language hns its exceptions ; and in Erjglifh, as in
other tongues, much muft be learned by example and authority.
Perhaps more
and better rules may be given that have efcaped my obfervation.

Versification is the arrangement of a certain number of
f}llables according to certain laws.

The feet of our verfes are either iambiek, as
or trochaisk* as kHy, lofty.

al'ofty create ;

Our

GRAMMAR OF THE

A

A thoufand crannies in the walls vit made |
Nor gate nor bars exclude the bufy trade.

Our lambick meaTure comprife* verfes
Oflburfyllables,

'Tis built of brafs, the better to diffufe

The fpreading founds, and multiply the news ;
Where echoes in repeated echoes play

Mod good, moil fair.
Or things as rare.

:

A mart for ever full

To call you 's loft

;

and open night and day.

For all the coft

Nor filence is within, nor voice exprefs.

Words can beftow.

But a deaf noife of founds that never ceafe

So poorly Ihow

Confus'd, and chiding, like the hollow roar

Upon your praifc.

Of tides, receding from th' infulted fliore:
Or like the broken thunder, heard from far.

That all the ways
Senfc hath, come ihort.

When Jove to diftance drives the rolling war.

DrajttH.

The courts are fill'd with a tumultuous din

Of crowds, or iifuing forth, or ent'ring in

With ravilh'd ears

A thorough-fare of news

:

wheie fome devife
Things never heard, fome mingle truth with lies:
The troubled air with empty founds they beat.
Intent to hear, and eager to repeat.
DryJeni

Drjdtn.

7^he monarch hears.

Of fix.
This while we are abroad.

;

Shall we not touch our lyre ?

In

meafures the accents are to be placed on even
line confidcred by itfelf is more harmo-*
nious, as this rule is more Aridlly obferved.
The variations neceffary to pleafuxe belong to the art of poetry, not the rules of

Shall we not fing an ode i
Shall that holy fire.
In us that ftrongly glow'd.
In this cold air expire i

all thefe

fyllables ;

and every

grammar.

Though in the utmoffi Peak
A while we do remain.

Our trochaick meafures are

Among the mountains bleak,

Of three fyllables.

Expos'd to fleet and r^in,

No fport our hours fliall break.
To exercife our vein.

Here we may
Think and pray.

What though bright Phoebus' beams

Before death
Stops our breath

Refrelh the fouthern ground.

Other joys

And though the princely Thames

Are but toys.

Waltotfs Angler.

With beauteous nymphs aboundj

And by old Camber's Itreams

Of five.

Be many wonders found :

In the days of old.
Stories plainly told.

Yet many rivers clear
Here glide in filver fwathes.

And what of all moft dear,

Of feven,

Buxton's delicious baths.
Strong ale and noble chear,

Faireft piece of well-form'd earth.

Urge not thus your haughty birth.

T' affwage breem winter's fcatlies.

In thefe meafures the accent

In places far or near.
Or famous, or obfcure.
Where wholfom is the air.
Or where the moft impure.
All times, and every where.

The mufe is ilill in ure.

to

Waller.

be placed on the odd

Thefe are the meifures which are now in

ufe, and above the reft thofe of
ancient poets wrote verfes fomctimet ai
twelve fyllables, as Drayton's Polyolbion,

feven, eight, and ten fyllables.

Drayton.

Find out the peaceful hermitage.

The hairy gown, and mofly cell.
Where I may fit, and nightly fpell

Of ev'ry ftar the flcy doth (hew.
Milton.

Gf ten, which is the common meafure of heroick and tragick
poetry.

Full in the midft of this created fpace,
BctwiSct hcav'n, earth, and flties, there Hands a place
Confining on all three ; with triple bound
Whence all things, though remote, arc view'd around.
^•1
And thither bring their undulating found.
The palace of loud Fame, her feat of pow'r,
Plac'd OD thefummit of a lofty tow'r;
thoufand winding entries long and wide
lUceive of frefii reports a flowing tide.

A

is

fyllables.

Of eight, which is the ufual meafure for ftiort poems.
And may at laft my weary age

And ev'ry herb that fips the dew.

Old Ballad.

Lovers felt annoy.

Our

Of III the Cambrian (hires their heads that bear fo high.
And farth'ft furvey their foils with an ambitious eye,
Mervinia for her hills, as for their matchlefs crowd:i.
The ncareft that are (aid to kifs the wand'ring clouds,
Efpecial audience craves, oflcnded with the tlirong^
That Iheof all the rcll ncgleclcd was fo long;
Alleging for hcrfelf, when through the Saxon's pride.
The godlike race of Brute to Severn's fctting fide
Were cruelly inforc'd, her mountains did relieve
Thofe vvlmm devouring war clfc every where did grieve.
And when all Wales befide (by fortune or by might)
Unto her ancient foe refign'd her ancient right,

A conftant maiden

ftill

(he only did remain,

The laft her genuine laws which ftoutly did retain.
And as each one is prais'd for her peculfar things.
So only (he is rich in mountains, meres, and fprings ;

And holds hcrfelf as great in her fuperfluous uafte.
As others by their towns and fruitful tillage grac'd.

And of fourteen, as Chapman's Homer.
And as the mind of fuch a man, that hath a long way gone.
And either Icnowcth not his way, or ell'c would let aloac
His purpos'd journey, is diftract.

The meafures of twelve and fourteen fyllables were often mi>gleJ by out
old poets,
fomcumcs iu alternate lUcs, and lometimcs ijt altciaatc cuuplcu.
'

The

\

ENGLISH TONGUE.
Th« »erfe »f tvwtre fylUblM, citlci an Altxandrine, it now only ufe4

'Tij the Divinity that ftirs •within ut,

to

Tis Heav'n itfelf that points out an htritfitrf
And intimates eternity to roan.

iiiaif-j heroick lines.

AUifoiit-

Waller was fmooth, but Dr/den taught to joi«

The varying verfc, the full-refounding line,

So ra that of eight fyllables,

7hi lung maj'f-ic murcb, and cncr^ Jivine.

Pif'
fi.

'

i

They neither added nor confounded.
They neither wanted nor abounded..

Fritit^

The paufe in the Alcxaajrine m»ft be at the iixth fyllable.
In that of (even,

The verfe of fourteen fyllables is now broken into a foft lyrick meafun of
«rfo conliiling alternately of eight fyllables and fix.

For refiftsnce I could fear none.
But with twenty ihips ha^ dtme.
What thou, brave and happy Vernon»

She to receive thy radiant name»

When all (hall praife, and ev'ry hj
Devote a wreath

to thee.

That day, for come it will, that day
liwit U Ft^'

Shall I lament to fee.

Beneath t!>i> tnmb an 'infant liet
To earth whofe body lent.
Hereafter (hall more glorious rife.
But not more innocent.
When the Archangel's trump (hall bI•^r»

Gtmtr,

H«ft atchiev'd with fix alone.

Tcnton.

Selects a whiter fpace.

In that of fix,
'Tv;as when the feas were roaring*
With hollow blafts of wind,
damfel lay deploring,
AH en a rock reclin'd.

A

<»<jyv

la the aaapeftick,.

When terrible tempefts alTail us.
-^

And fouls to bodies join.
What crowds thall wilb their lives below
Had been as jhort as thine I

WcjllJ.

And mountainous billows affright,.
Nor grandeur or wealth can avail us.
But flciiful induftry fleers right.

Bj/W»

To tbefe meofures, and their laws, may be reduced every fjiecles of Sogllfik
verfe.

i

We have another roeifure very quick and lively, and therefore much ufcd
in fongj,

which may be called the atutftfiick, in which the accent refts upon

every third fyllable.

May I govern my paiTione with ab&Iute f»'ay.
And grow wiiiir and i)cBer as lile wear& away..

!

this meafure a fyllable is often retrenched from the

Dr. Popi^
firft

foot, as

Diogenes furly and proud.

Dr. Pafu

When prefent we love, and when abfent agrcCj.
I think not of I'ris, nor I'ris of mc.

DryJen.

Thefe meafares are varied by many combinations, and fometimes by double
without rhyme, as in the heroick meafure^
tS(!jngS| either with

w

Our verfification admits of few licences,, except fynaloepha^
or elifion of t in the before a vowel,, as r/j' eternal ; and more
rarely of o in to, as r' accept ; and a fyntrrejis, by which twofhort vowels coalefce into one fyllable, as quefiion, fpecial \ or a.
word is contrafted by the expulfion, of a Ihort vowel before a litsi.

quid, as anPrUtr temf'rance..

Thus have I collected rules and examples,. by which the Englifli language
may be learned, if the reader be already acquainted with grammatical terms,

To have written a
or caught by a mailer to thofe that arc more ignorant.
grammar for fuch as are not yet initiated ux the I'clwols, would have been te>
diouS) and peilufs at lall iacfitftual*

ADVERTISE-.

ADVERTISEMENT
TO THE

FOURTH EDITION,
MA N Y

are the

works of human induftry, which to begin and finifli are hardly granted to

the fame man.

He that undertakes to compile a Didionary, undertakes that, which, if it

comprehends the full extent of his defign, he knows himfelf unable to perform.

Yet his labours,

though deficient, may be ufeful, and with the hope of this inferior praife, he muft incite his a(5tivity,^

and folace his wearincfs.

Perfection is unattainable, but nearer and nearer approaches

may be made

;

and finding my Dic-

tionary about to be reprinted, I have endeavoured, by a revifal, to make it lefs reprehenfible.

not deny that 1 found many parts requiring emendation, and

I will

many more capable of improvement.

Many faults I have correfted, fome fuperfluities I have taken away, and fome deficiencies I have
fupplied.

I have methodifed fome parts that were difordered, and illuminated fome that were obfcure.

Yet the changes or additions bear a very fmall proportion to the whole.
lefs to objeft, but the ftudent who

The critick will now have

has bought any of the former copies needs not repent j he will

not, without nice collation, perceive

how they differ j and ufefulnels feldom depends upon little

things.

For negligence or deficience, I have perhaps not need of more apology than the nature of the work
will furnifh : I have left that inaccurate which never was made exadt, and that imperfeft which never

was completed.

A D I C-

DICTIONARY
OF THE

ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
ABA

A

The firft letter of the European

A, taken materially, or for itfelf, is a
as, a great A, a little a.

2.

^

noun ; and is confidered by
Wallis as a contraction of at, when it
Let fall, to court the wind, and catch the gales.
is put before a word denoting fome aftion
Drydcn'i Ceyx and A/cjmi,
A little houfe with trees a row.
not yet finilhed ; ls, I am a walking.
And, like its maftcr, very low.
I'lfe, Hor,
It alio feeras to be anciently contrafted
is fometimes redundant ; as, arife,
from at, when pl.-.ced before local fur- 8.
aroufe, a-wake ; the fame with rife, roufe,
names ; as, Thomas a Becket. In other
wake.
cafes, it feems to fignify to, like the

The broad found, refembling that of

A

Many of thefe words were
with

au,

as

fault,

I'jauli ; which happens to be ftill retained

They go a brgging to a bankrupt's door.
tains !

Which we may every year
IfDiUn.
Find when we come a fifliing here.
Now the men fell a rubbing of armour, which
IVcticn.
a great while had lain oiled.
He will knap the fpears a pieces with his teeth.

is

A

of the French e mafculine, or diphthong
ai in pais, or perhaps a middle found
between them, or between the a and e
to this the Arabic a is faid nearly to apOf this found we have examproach.
ples in the wor^i, place, face, luajle, and
all thofe that

M-.rc't Antid. Athm.
Another falls a ringing a Pefcennius Niger, and

judicioufly

is

4.

by an e

it is

added, as plaia.
the long a clofe.
1.

raarlted long,

final, plane,

(how,

A has a peculiar fignification, denoting

They drew abacke, as half with (hame confound.

the proportion of one thing to another.
Thus we fay. The landlord hath a hun-

ABACTOR, n.f. [Latin.] One who drives

through Bavaria ; which
is a voyage of two days, after the rate of twenty
Addijin on Italy.
leagues a day.

gene-

or by an

/

The ihort a is open,

A, an article fet before nouns of the
fingular number; a man, a tree ; de-

5.

A is ufed in burlefque poetry, to lengthen
adding

to the

fenfe.
For cloves and nutmegs to the line-u,
And even for oranges to China.

Vryden.

out a

fyllable, without

S/ievJ. Pafl.

away or fteals cattle in herds, or great
numbers at once, in didindlion from
thofe that ileal only a (heep or two.

Blount.

A'BACUS. n.f. [Latin.]
1.

A counting- table,

_

anciently

ufed

ia
'

calculations.
2.

[In architecture.] The uppermoU member of a column, which ferves as a fort

of crowning both to the capital and column.
Dm.
6. A is fometimes, in familiar writings, Aba'ft. adv.
[of abapran. Sax. behind.]
put by a barbarous corruption for he;
From the fore-part of the (liip, towards
as, will a come, for will he come.
the llern.
Dia.

noting the number one, as, a man is
coming, that is, no more than one ; or an
indefinite indication, as, a man may
come this way, that is, any man. This 7. A, in compofition, fecms to have fomeBetimes the power of the French « in thefe
article has no plural (ignification.
phrafes, a droit, a gauche, Sic. and iomefore a word beginning with a vowel, it
timet to be contracted from at ; as, afde,
is written an, as, an ox, an egg, of
which a is the contraction.
uflope, afoot, ajleep, athirjl, aiuare.

Vol. I.

Obfolete.
But when they came where thou thy (kill didit

found of it to be
AJJifin on Midah.

try, during all its courfe

(hort, as, glafs, grafs ; or long, as,

rally,

the

Gibfon,

Aba'cke. adv. [from lack.'\ Backwards.

dred a year ; The (hip's crew gained a
thoufand pounds a man.
The river Inn paflcs through a wide open coun-

terminate in ation ; as re-

glaze, graze:

diftinguiihes

modern.

lation, nation, generation.

A

Dryi!in.

May peace Hill llumbcr by thcfs purling foun-

as maun for man, haund for hand.
open, not unlike the a of the Italians,

found in father, rather, and more
obfcurely \n fancy, fafi, &c.
(lender or clofe, is the peculiar a of the
Englifh language, refembling the found

Trkr.

/i hunting Chloe went.

uniformly preferred in the ruflic pro
nunciation, and the Northern dialefts,

A, in abbreviations, (lands for artium,
or arts ; as, A. B. batchelor of arts, artium haccalaureus ; A. M. mailer of arts,
artium magifier ; or, anno ; as, A. D.
anno domini.
AB, at the beginning of the names of
places, generally (hews that they have
fome relation to an abbey, as Abingdon.

9.

French a.

This was probably the ancient
found of the Saxons, fmce it is almoft
\r\ fault.

A

And now a breeze from (hore began to blow.
The Tailors (hip their oars, and ccufe to row ;
Then hoift their yards a-tr'p, and all their fails

ticipial

the German a, is found in many of our
monofyllables, as all. wall, malt, /alt, in
which a is pronounced as au in cau/e, or

written

Sbakefpearet Miicbetb,

A is placed before a participle, or par-

3.

and (lender.

anciently

And wifh the ftate of tli' world were now undone.

noun ;

alphabets, has, in the Englifti
language, three different tounds,
which may be termed the broad, open,

aiv in lazv.

I 'gin to be a viiary of the fun

Abm'sance. n.f. [from the French abai..
fer, to deprcfs, to bring down.] An aCl
of reverence, a bow.
Obeyfance is confidered by Skinner as a corruption bf
ahaifame, but is now univcrl'ally uled.

B

1*

ABA

ABA

ABA

To ABA'LIENATE. -v. a. [from aiallene,

of a longer form, abandoned [given up]

Lat.] To make that another's which
was our own before. A term of the civil
Jaw, not much ufed in common fpeech.
Abalien a'tiox. n.f. [Lat. abalicnaiio.']
The afl of giving up one's right to another perfon ; or a making over an eftatc,
goods, or chattels by fal«, or due coiirfc
Dia.
oflaw.
To Aba'nd. v. a. [A word con traced from
abandon, but not now in uie.
See A-

to wickednefs.

Thi y ftr :>nger arc
fought at firft their helping
band,
Mai Vortiger enforced the kingdom to abatiet,
Sftnftr'i Fairy Sheen, h. li. cuu. to.

To ABA'NDON. -v. a.

[Fr. abandonner.

Deriv«d, according to Menage, from the
Italian abandonare, which fignifies to
forfake his colours ; bandum ['vexillum]
deferere. /"a/^a/Vr thinks it a coalition of"

a ban donner, to give up to a profcription ;
in which fenfe we, at this day, mention
Ban, in our
the ban of the empire.
own old dialed, fignifies a curfe ; and
to a^aWoa, if confidered as compounded
between French and Saxon, is exaftly
equivalent to diris de-Tjcuere.']
I. To give up, refign, or quit ; often fol-

Abanni'tiOn. n./. [LblZ. aiannitio.]

Te Aba're. 1/. a. [abajiian. Sax.] Tomake
bare, uncover, or difclofe.
Dia.
Ab ARTicutA'TiON.«.y; [from ab, from,
and articulus, a joint, Lat.] A good and
apt conftruftion of the bones, by which

whom you fpeak with your eye; yet with a demure
abajing of it fomctimes.

Spenf. Hubbird's Tale.

He levels mountains, and he raifes plains
jit>as'd your daughter,

their vigour and induftry.

Loekt on Education, § 46.

Aba's ED. adj. [with heralds] a term ufed
of the wings of eagles, when the top
looks downwards towards the point of the
ftiield ;

with the top pointing to the chief of the
angle.
Bailey. Chambers.
Aba'sement. n.f. The ftate of being
brought low ; the aft of bringing low ;

in buying.

;

the ftorm abates.
It is ufed fometimes
with the particle of before the thing
leffened.

Our phyficians have obfcrved, that in procefs of
time, fome difeafes have abiitidcfx.)\t\r virulence,
and have, in a manner, worn out their malignity,
io as to be no longer mortal.
Dryden's Hind and Panther,
2.

To put into confufion
med.

;

to

to abate a catlie, to beat it down.

A

Per-

eant. ^. Jlanx. 39.

Milton's Paradife Loft, b, !, /. 3 ji.

This heard, th' imperious queen fat mute with
fear;

To

To an eternal lethargy of love
To puU, and pinch, and wound me, cannot cure,

Silence was in the court at this rebuke :

Nor could the g'^ds, abajb'd, fullain their fovereign's look.

;

And but diAurb the quiet of my death.
Dryd. Sp. Friar.

Corrupted

in the higheil degree ; as, an abandoned

In this fenfe, it is a contradion

2.

Dryden's Fables.

The paflive admits the particle at, fomctimes of, before the caufal noun.
no wile (peak againft the truth, but be abnjhed
of the error of thy ignorance.
Ecclui. iv. 25.
1 n

it

:
fo he that
fteppcth in between the former pofTefTor and hi»
heir is faid to abate.
In '.he neuter fignlfication

thus ; The writ of the d niandment ihail abate, that
is, (hall be difabled, fruftrated, or overthrown. The
appeal ahateih by covin, that is, that the accuOtion is defeated by deceit.
CoiueU

3.

Nor further dur(l incenfc the gloomy thunderer.

give up to, to refign.
Look on me as a man abandon d o'er

him in pofTelTinn, is faid to dilTelfe

a fudden

Te ABANDON OVER. 11. fl. [a fomi of wri-

I faid unto her, From whence is this kid ? Is
not ftolen ? But (be replied u^on nic, it was

To ithate a writ,

by fome exception, to defeat or overthrow it,
ftranger abatetb, that is, entereth upon a houfe
or land void by the death of him that laft pon(:(red
it, before the heir take his po(rcl1ian, and fo keepWherefore, as he that putteth out
eth him out.
is,

make afha-

generally implies
impreflion of Ihame.
They heard, and were abap'd.
It

[In common law.]
It is in law ufed both aftively and neuterly ; as,

deprefiion.
There is an abafenunt becaufe of glory ; and
there is tliat lifteth up his head from a low cftate.

1.

let

To Aba'te. 'V. »;
1. To grow lefs
as, his paflion abates;

natural way of bearing them beingfpread

He boldly fpakc, Sir knight, if knight thou be,
.Abandon this Ibreflalled place at crft,
For fear of further harm, 1 ccunfel thee.

%vretch.

Dryd. ^ne'id,

or when the wings are ftiut ; the

[See Bashful.
haps from abaiffer, French.]

nor can controul

down the price in
felling, fometimes to beat down the price
In commerce, to

3.

much by too ftrlit an hand over them ; they lofe
all

;

Th' immortal vigour, or abati the foul.

and exalted me.

Dryd. Fables.
If the mind be curbed and humbled too much
their
children
if
fpirlts
in
be ahafed and broken
;

Dryd. Fab.

Aba'nooned. farticip. adj.

Time, that changes all, yet changes us in vain.

The body, not the mind

j

And, not regarding difl'rence of degree,

7ff Aba'sh. ni. a.

ting not ufual, perhaps not exacl.]

Sbatefpeare's Coriolanus,

EccUfijJlicus, XX. II.

To forfake, to leave.

ii.

Your ignorance deliver you.
As moft abated captives to fome nation
That won you without blows
!

Nor quite abandon your oncc-favour'd maid.

Sfenfer'i Fairy Sunn, b.

Have the power ftiJl

To hani(h your defenders, till at length

'Job, xl. II.

Dryd. jUneid, 2.

3.

This iron world
Brings down the llouteft hearts to loweft ftate :
For mifery doth braveft m'indi abate.

;

common ufe.

But to the partisg goddcfs thus (he pray'd j

my aid.

To dejeft, or deprefs the mind.

2.

With unrefiftcd might the monarch reigns;

virtue, not to abandon one's felf, leapt to a rib of

Propitious dill be prcfcnt to

Sbattjj>eare,

Here we fee the hopes of great benefit and light
from expofitors and commentators, are in a great
part abated; and thofe who have moft need of their
help, can receive but little from them.
Luke's EJfay on St. Paul's Ef'JiUi.

Sidney, b, \.

and defiring to efcape, only to ferve the rvile of
the (hip.
Sidney, b. ii.
Seeing the hurt flag alone,
I<eft and abandoned of his velvet friends,
'Tis right, quoth he ; thus mifery doth part
The flux of company.
Shakifp. As you lih it.
What face a wretched fugitive attends,
Scom'd by my foes, abandoned by my friends.

And how unwillingly I left the ring,
.You would abate the ftreogth of your difpleafure.

Behold every one that is proud, and abiije him.

With frequent rites, and pure, avow'd thy pow'r,
Be doom'd the worft of human ills to prove,

:

Sir John Da'vies on Ireland^
If you did know to whom 1 gave the ring.

to thy advancement their wlfdoms have thceabajcd.

Bcmley'i Sermom.

in an ill fenfe.
The princes ufing the palTions of fearing evil,

to be his own immediate work?

Hjppy Ihephcid, to the gods be thankful, that

Muft he, whofe altars on the Phrygian (hore.

Pofi't Odyjfty, h. i. 1. 80.

Who

can tell whether tlie divine wifdoni, to
abate the glory of thoft kings, did not rcfcrve this
wo;k to be done by a* queen, that it might appear

in a figurative and perfonal fenfe, which

to think, that a clod of earth in a fick, may ever,
fay eternal ihaking, receive the fabric of man's

to forfake

To leffen, to diminifli.

1.

Baccn.

,

To caft down, to deprefs, to brijig low

2.

Who is he fo ahatidomd re fottifli credulity, as

;

Sliift's Mifcillariil,

To AB A'TE. V. a. [from the French abbaire, to beat down.]

they move ftrongly and eafily ; or that
fpecies of articulation that has manifeft
motion.
Dta.
To Aba'se. 1). a. [Fr. abaijfer, from the
Lat. hajis, or bajfus, a b.arbarous word,
fignifying low, bafe.]
1. "To deprefs, to lower.
It is a point of cunning to wait upon him with

Dryil. j^miJ.

To defert

Mtlti.n's Paradife Ltji, b. ii. /. 223.

The little Cupiils hov'ring round,
(As pictures prove) with garlands crown'd,
MaJIj'd at what tbey faw and heard,
Ficw off, nor ever more appcar'd.

A

banifhment for one or two years, for
manflaughter.
Obfolete.
Dia.

is the

Unblefs'd, abaxdon'd to the wrath of Jove ?

Fall Hat, and (ink into a trivial toy.

Clarend. b. viii.

Ab a'k DONMEHT.ir./ [abajtdoanement ,Ft .]
1. The aft of abandoning.
2. The ftate of being abandoned.
Dia.

]f Jhe be fo ahand'jn'd to her forrow,
Ac iti* fpokc, file never will admir me.
Shah/j>. -Tivtlfth Night.
The- paflive gods behold the Greeks defile
Their temples, and abandon to the fpoll
Their own abodes ; wc, feeble few, confpire
To fave a finking town, involv'd in ftre.

^.

At every fudden flighting quite abdjht.

action.

lowed bv the particle to.

body ?

He hop'd his paft meritorious ailions might outweigh his prcfent abandoning the thought of future

Aba'ndoninc.

BANDON.] To forfalce.
Than they which

[A verbal noun from
abandon.] Defertion, forfaking.

liven fm > gift, more than the wagtji however^
I did not believe her, and 1 was aba/b.-d at lier.
iob. ii. 13, i^
In the ad-nirrtion only of weak minds
Led captive : ccafc t" admire, and all her plumct

[In horfemanlhip.] A horfe is faid to
abate or take down his curvets ; when
working upon curvets,' he puts his two
hind legs to the ground both at once,
and obfervcs the fame exaftnefs in all
the times.

Dia,

Aba'tement. n.f. \abatemcnt,^'c.'\
I. The aft of abating or leflening.
Xenophon tells us, that the city contained about
ten theuXond houfes, and ^wing one saaa to every

boufe^

ABB

ABB

houfc, who could have any (hare in the jorern-

thcfc tyrants,

it"

they had been careful to adhere

together, might have been a majority even of the

Sviift on tbe Ctnteji ofAthem and Romg'

ColTee has, in common with all nuts, an oil
ftrongly

combined and entangled with earthy par-

ticles.

The moft noxious part of oil exhales in

Adii'.jon.

JBBREUFOI'R. [in French, a watering-

[Lat. abbatia;

place. Ital. abbe-jerato, dal verbo beiiere.

from whence probably firft Abbacy;
which fee.] A monaftery of religious

Lat. bibcre. Abbeverari i cavalli. This
word is derived by Menage, not much
acquainted with the Teutonic dialefts,
from adbibare for adbibere ; but more
probably it comes from the fame root
with bretxi. See Brew.]
Among mafons, the joint or junfture of two Hones,
or the interftice between twoftonesto be
filled up with mortar.
Di&.

men or women ; diftinguifhed from religious houfes of other
denominations by larger privileges. See

Arhuthnct on Al'tmcrts.

weight.

The fum or quantity taken away by the
aft of abating.
The law of works is that Ijw, which requires
pcrfefl obedience, without rcmiflion or abatement^
fo that, by thatlav,-, a man cannot be juft, or jufti6ed, without an cxa3 performance of ever)' tittle.

Abbot.
With eafy roads he came to Leicefler
Lodg'd in the abbey, where the reverend abbot,
Y^ithall his convent, honourably receivM him.
Shakejp.

A'bby.

A flothful loiterer in a religious houfe,

A, B, C.

under pretence of retirement and aufte-

1.

The caufe of abating; extenuation.
As our advantages towards pradt^fing and pro-

This is no Father Dominic, no huge overgrown

We

abbey-lubber \

this

'

f'iar.

A'BBOT. H.f.

[Inlaw.] The ad of the abator ; as, the
abatement of t\\e heir into the land before
he hath agreed with the lord. The affeftion or paflion of the thing abated ;
Ctnve/.
Tis, abatement of ihe wnx..
6. [With heralds.] An accidental mark,
which being added to a coat of arms,
the dignity of it is abafed, by reafon of
fome Ilain or dilhonourable quality of
/>.<2.
the bearer.
Aba'ter. n./. The agent or caufe by
which an abatement is procured ; that
by which any thing is leffened.
5.

is

but a diminutive fucking
DryH. Sp. fr.

Skokefpeare*

To A'BDICATE. -v. a. [Lat. abdicc] To
give up right ; to refign ; to lay down

chief of a convent, or fellowfliip of canons.
Of thefe, fome in England were
mitred, fome not
thofe that were mi:

tred, were

exempted from the jurildiction of the diocefan, having in themfelves epifcopal

authority

within their

precinfts, and being alfo lords of parlia-

ment. The oth/r fort were fubjcft to
the diocefan in all fpiritual government.

Abaters of acrimony or fliarpnefs, arc exprciled
of ripe vegetables, and all preparations of
fucb ; as of almonds, pillachocs, and ether nuts.

The little book by which the elements
of reading are taught.
Then comes queilion like an a, b, c, book.

[in the lower Latin abbas,

Namitiis cffieiumjure. Paterae, geris.'j The

dive/.

oils

2.

from i» father, which fenfe was Hill
implied ; fo that the abbots were called
patres, and abbefles matres monajicrii.
Thus Fortunatus to the abbot Paternus
:

,

The alphabet; as, he has not learned
his a, b, c.

rity.

moting piety and virtue were greater than thofe ot
other men; fo will our eicufe be lefs, if weneglcil
cannr't plead in abatewe were ignnrant of our
duty, under the prepolfefiion of ill habits, and the
Atterbury^sSermcm,
bias of a wrong education.

See Abbey.

A'bbey- -Lubber, n.f. [See Lubber.]

Locke.

to make ufe of them.
ment of our guilt, that

n.f.

perfons, whetlier

roafting, to the aiatemtnt of near one quarter of its

4.

an excellent abbreviature of the whole duty of a
Chri!>ian.
7aylari Guiti< to Dtvoricn,

A'bbey, or Abby.

The ftate of being abated.

3.

Conftantia, as foon as the folemnities of her reception were over, retired with the abbefs into h?i

hive a filter, aibcfs in Terceraf,

own apartment.

people colle^ive.

2.

DiyJ. D. Sebajl.

faults; who fooner (hews mercy thah anger; wh«
offers violence to his appetite, in ell things endeavouring to fubdue the fiefli to the fpirit.
This is

I

Who loft her lover on her bridal-day.

ment (the reft coniiliing of women, children, and
lervants}, and making orher obvious abatements^

.

A B D

See Abbey.

an office.
Old Saturn, here, with upcaft eyes.
Beheld his abdicatcil Ikics.

Abdica'tion.

?/._/".

aft of abdicating ;

AJdifon,

[abduatio, Lut.] The
refignation ; quitting

an office by one's own proper aft before
the ufual or dated expiration.
Neither duth it appear how a princ«'s abdication
can make any other fort of vacancy in the throne,
than would be caufcd by his death ; fince hecannot abdicate for his children, otherwife than by his
own confcnt in form to a bill from the two houfes*
Sivift on the Sentiments of a Church of

England Man.

A'bdicative. adj. That which caufes.or
implies an abdication.

Diil.

A'bbotship. n.f. The ftate or privilege A'bdicative. adj. [from <? Wo, to hide.
of an abbot.
Did.
Aba'tor. n./. [a law term.] One who
That which has the power or quality of
intrudes into houfes or land, void by the To ABBRE'VIATE. v. a. [Lat. abbrehiding.
Dia.
A'butbnot on Diet,

death of the former poffeflbr, and yet
not entered upon or taken up by his

1)1 are.^

To Ihorten by contraftion of parts with-

1.

out lofs of the main fubilance ; to abridge.
It is one thing to abbreviate by contradllng, another by cutting off.
Baccn, FJJay 26.
The only invenfion of late years, which hath
contributed towards polirenefs in difcnurfc, is that
of abbreviating or reducing words of many fyllablei
into one, by lopping ofF tl.c reft.
Sieift.

Di^.

heir.

A'batude. n.y; [old records.] Anything
dtminifhed.

Bailey.

A'bature. It./, [from aiatre, French.]
Thofe fprigi of grafs which are thrown

down by a ttag irf his pafiing by. Dia.
Abb. «./. The yarn on a weaver's warp
Chambers.
a terra among clothiers.

ABB

J. n.f. [Heb. ns]
which f\^n\fic% father

To fliortcn, to cut fliort.

2.

;

Set the rtrength of their days before the flood

j

which were aibreviatej after, and contracted into
hundreds and threefcores.

A Syriac word,

Bro^vn'i Vulvar Ernun, b. vi. e. 6.

A'bqacv. /;./. \LzX. ahbatla.'\ The rights .Abersvi a'tion. n.f. ~
or privileges of an abbot. See Abbey.
1. The aft of abbreviating.
According to Fctiuu>, an abbacy is tlie iiignity
2. The means ufed to abbreviate, as chaabbot ia a term ( r word of dignity,
and not of ofSce ; and, therefore, even i fecular
perfon, who has the cue of fouls, is fometimes,
iR the canon law, alf ftiled an abbot.

rafters fignifying whole words ; words
contrafted.
Such is the propriety and energy in them all,

^>7'j?='j Parcrgitt 'jitrh Canonhi.

that they never can be chang(:d, but to difadvan-

itfclf, fincc an

>

fage, except in the circumftance of ufing albreviaA'bbess.«./ [Lat.. aibali//b, from whence
t'ont.
Swi/i.
the Saxon abubij-yi;, then probably abAbbrevia'tor. n.f, [abbre-viateur,Fr.]
hatefs, and by contrafticn abheffe in Fr.

and abbej'i, Eng.] The fuperiour or governcfs of a nunnery or monaflery of

women.
They fled
Into this al bey, whither we purfued them ;
JVnd here the abhejs Ihuts tbe gate on us.

And will not fuffer us to fetch him out.
Shaltf. Con. ofErrtri.

ABDO'MEN. n. f
hide.]

[Lat. from abdo, to

A cavity commonly called the

It contains the
lower venter or belly
Itomach, guts, liver, fpleen, bladder,
and is within lined with a membrane
called the peritoneum. The lower part
is called the hypogallriiim ; the forcmoll
part is divided into the epigaftrium, the
right and left hypochondria, and the
navel ; 'tis boended above by the car:

and the diaphragm,
fideways by the flwrt or lower ribs, and
behind by the vertebra; of the loins, the
bones of the coxendix, that of the pubes,
and OS facrum. It is covered with feve
ral mufcles, from whofe alternSle relaxatilago eufiformis

tions

and

contra(itions in

refpiration,.

digeilion is forwarded, and the due motion of all the parts therein contained

pfomoted, both for fecretion and expulfion.

'

^iiicy.

The abJonun confifts of parts containing and conOne who abbreviates, or abridges.
tained.
py)fem:in^s Surgery.
.A,-!Ek.e'vi ATURE. n. f
[abbrevialura.
Abdo'minal. Xadj. Relating to the abLa:.]
Abdo'm INDUS. 5 domen.
1.

2.

A mark ufed for the fake of (hortening.
A compendium or abridgment.

man, who grieves ra.her lor him
that injures him, tlun f^r hii own fuffering; who
Ht! is a good

prays fgr bim that wrong!, him, forgiving all bis

To A.'JDU'CE.

'u.

a.

[Lat. abduco.'\

Tq

draw to a diffcrcHt part ; to withdraw
one part from another. A word chiefly
ufed in phylic or fcience.
B i

If

ABE

A B H
Ibray.

Of the verb

demonftrated in the optics delivered by Galen.
Browit'i yulgar Ernun, b, iii. c. 20.

Divers were out in their account, aterr'mg feveral ways from the true and jult compute, and calling that one year, which perhaps might be another.
Bri/ivns yulg.ir Errourif b. iv. r. 12.

which ferve to open or pull back
divers parts of the body ; their oppofites

thofe

To Aberu'nc ATE. I". «. [averunco, Lat.]

To pull up by the roots

name given by anatomitts to the mufdraw back the fe-

veral members.

He fuppofed ih conftriftors of the eye-lid» muft
he ftresgthened in the fupercilious j the aidulfsn
in drunkards, and contemplarive men, who have
the fame fteady and grave motion of the eye.
;

jirtuititot anil Pofi'i A''arlinus Scriilcrus.

Abeceda'rian. »./ [from the names of
a, b, c, the three firtt letters of the alphabet.] He that teaches or learns the

alphabet, or firft rudiments of literature.
This word is ufed by ff^ood in his

Athena Oxoninfes, where mentioning
Farnaby the critic, he relates, that, in
fome part of his life, he was reduced to
follow the trade of an abecedarian by his
misfortunes.

A'BECEDARY.fli^'. [See Ab ECED A R AN.]
1. Belonging to the alphabet.
2. Infcribed with the alphabet.
pretended from the fympathy of two
needles touched with the loadllonc, and placed in
the center of two ahtcedary circles, or rings of letis

them, One friend keeping one, and another the other, and agreeing upon
i^Ki hour wherein they will communicate.
Brovin^i Vuhar Errcurs^ b* n. r. 3.
ters, defcribed round about

Abe'o. aJv. [from a, for at, and bed.] In
bed.
It was a (hame for them to mar their complexions, yea and conditions too, with long lying
tfW : when fiie was of their age, file would have
in»ie a handkerchief by that time oMay.
Suliy, b» ii.
She has not been ahed, but in her chapel
Dryd. Span. Friar.
All night devoutly watch'd.
-Abe'rrance. ?«./. [from a berro, La.t.

Abe'rrancy. 5

to extirpate

D'^-

wander from the
right way.] A deviation from the right
way ; an crrour ; a miftake ; a falfe opito

nion.

They do not only fwarm with errours, but vices
depending thereon. Thus they commonly aft'edl
no man any farther than he dcferts his reafon, or
complies with thrir ahcrrartc'm.
Brotim't y^ulgar Ernurs, h. i. f. 3.
Could a man be compofed to fuch an advantage
of conftitution, that it ihould not at all adulterate
the images of his mind ; yet this fecond nature
would alter the cr.^iis of his underilanding, and
render it as obnoxious to aherraricetf as now.
CfoBvilU^i Supjit Scientijicat c. 16.

Abe'rrant. adj. [from aberraris, Lat.]
Deviating, wandering from the right or
DiJl,
known way.
Aberra'tio.n. n.f. [from «i«rra//o, Lat.]
The act of deviating from the common
or from the right track.
If it be a miilake, there is no hercfy in fuch an
barmlefs aherratkn ; the probability of it will render it a lapfe of eafy pardon.
CUn-vilU'i Sceffit Seienllfica, c. 11.

ABE'jLRiKC./«r/. [from the \<iih aberr.

of the age, in delighting to Aing fcandals upon the
clergy in general i which, befides the difgracsto
the reformation, and to religion itfcif, cafts an ignominy upon the kingdom.
Stvift, Ch, ofEng,

AbHo'rRENCE. 1
r re
II
1
from aoMr.l•
r
>
A
Abho
rrencv. i n.f,
The a£t of abhorring, deteflation.
1
I

-^

It

Co^vel.
as to encourage or fet on.
Then fliall I foon, quoth he, return again,

;

The difpofition to abhor, hatred.

2.

Even a juft arid neceflary defence does, by giv.
ing

The firft tendency to any injuftlce that appears,
muft be fupprerted with a (how of wonder and aiborrency in the parents and governours.
Locke on Education, § 1 10.

Abho'rrekt. adj. [from fl^ar.]

Abet that virgin's caufe difconfolate.
Fairy Siueen, b. i.
And ftiortly back return.
A widow who by folemn vows,
Contrafted to me, for my fpoufe,
Combin'd with him to break her word.
Hudibras, p. iii. cant. 3.
And has abetted all.
Men lay fo great weight upon right opinions,
and eagernefs of abetting them, tliat they account
Decay of Piety.
that the unum neceflarium.
They abetted both parties in the civil war, and
always furnifiied fupplies to the weaker fide, left
there fliould be an end put to thcfe fatal divifions.

Struck with abhorrence ; loathing.

1

For if the worlds
In worlds inclos'd could on his fenfes burft.

He would abhorrent turn.
Thomjons Summer, I. 3io»

Contrary to, foreign, inconfiflent with.

2.

It is ufed with the particles from or to,

but more properly w\t.\ifrom.
This I conceive to be an hypothefis, well worthy
a rational belief; and yet it is fo abhorrent frr.m
the vulgar, that they would as foon believe Anaxa.

No 2S.

goras, that fnow is black, as him that Ihould af-

Abe'tment. n.f. The aft of abetting.

firm it is not white.
GlantiiUe' s Sceffis Sciem. c. 12.

Dia.

Why then thefe foreign thoughts of ftate em-

Abe'tter, or Abe'ttor. ».yi He that

ployments.
Abhorrent to your funftjon and your breeding ?
Poor droning truants of unpraftis'd cells,
Bred in the fcUow(hip of bearded boys.

the fupport«r or encourager of

a :v) titer.

calumny has two fuch potent abetters,

What wonder is it if you know not vntrs ?

we are not to wonder at its growth as long as
men are malicious and defigning, they will be tra;

Govertl. of tbe Tongue.

ducing.

You (hall be ftill plain Torrifmond with me,
Th' abfttir, partner (if you like the name),
The hulband of a tyrant, but no king

Dryden,

Abho'rrer. n.f. [from abhor.] The perfon that abhors ; a hater, deteller.

The lower clergy were railed at, for difputing
the power of the bilhops, by the known ahborrers
of cpifcopacy, and abuli^d for doing nothing in
the convocations, by thefe very men who wanted
to bind up their hands. Siuifl. Examiner, N° 2i.

;

Till you dcferve that title by yourjullice.
Dryden^s Spjnijh Friar.

Thefe confiderations, though they may have no
influence on the multitude, ought to fink into the
minds of thofe who are their abettors, and who,
if they cfcape puniihment here, muft know, that

Abho'rring. The objeft of abhorrence.
This feems not to be the proper uie of

thcfe fcvcral mifchiefs will be one day laid to their
Addijor. Freeholder, No 50.
charge.

the participial noun.

They (hall go forth, and look upon the carcafes
men that have tranlgreflcd againft Me :
for their worm (hall not die, neither (hall their

Abey'ance. n.f. [from the French abo-

of the

yer, allatrare, to bark at.] This word,
in Littleton, cap. Difcontinuance, is thus
ufed.

be quenched, and they
unto all fie(h.
fire

The right of fee-fimple lieth in

abeyance, when

only in the remembrance, intendment, and confideration of the law. The frank tenement of
the glebe of the parfonage, is in no man
during the time that the parfonage is
Co-ivel.
void, but is in abeyance.
all

it is

Aboreca'tion. n.f.

To ABI'DE. -K. n.

;

Whilll I was b g in claraout, came a man.
Who having freii ;iie in my worferftate,
Shunn'd my abhorrd fociety.
Sl'akefpcaie's K. Lear,
Juftly thou abb:^rryi
That fon, who on the qaict ftate of men
Such trouble brought, aflfefting Co fubdue
Rational liberty.
Mill. ParaJ, Loji, 6. xii. /. 79.

be an abhorring
Ij'aiab, Ixvi.

I abode or abid.

44.

[from

I'o dwell in a place ; not remove ; t»
ilay.

Thy fervant became furety for the lad unto
father, faying. If 1 bring him not unto thee, then

my

Now

bear the blame to my father for ever.
therefore I pray thee, let thy fervant abide inftead
rf the lad, a bondman to
lord j and let the

I (hall

Diil.

To ABHO'R. T/. a. [abborrea, Lat.] To
to detell to extrehate with acrimony
mity ; to loath ; to abominate.

ihall

bibian, or aubibian. Sax.]
1

[abgregatio, LtA.]

A reparation from the flock.

men actguaintance with war, take oS' Ibine-

what from the abhorrence of it, and infenfibly difpol'e them to hoftilities.
Dec<iy of Piety,

:

Wliilft

draws upon him the hatred and abhorrence of

all

in Abetter.
To abd fignifieth, in our common law, as much

abets ;

'•

men here and fubjedts him to the wrath of
God hereafter.
Soutb's Hcrmmst

a.

Jlddifin. Freehulder,

f

A church of England man abhors the humour

[from betan. Sax. CgTo
nifyine to enkindle or animate.]
pulh forward another, to fupport him in
his defigns by connivance, encouragement, or help. It was once indifferent,
but is almoA always taken by modern
as may be feen
writers in an ill fenfe
"v.

I

'

;

utterly.

To ABE'T.

JBDirCTOK. n.f. {^abduaor, Lat.] The

This

Hudibras, p, i. cant,

aberr I have found no

example.

Abou'cent. aajr. Mufcles abducent are

cles, which ferve to

The felf.fame thing they wilt abbn>
One way, and long another for.

cf abini, Lat.] Wandering, going a-

If w« tUtict the eye unto either tomar, the
ohjcA will not duplicKe; (ur, in that porition,che
axis of (he cones remain in the Tame plain, as is

Di8.
being called adducent.
Abduc'tion. n.f. [aiduSHi, Lat.]
1. The art of drawing apart, or withdrawing one part from another.
2. A particular form of argument.

A B I

my

lad go up with his brethren.

2.

Gen. xliv. 31, 33-.

To dwell.
The Marquis Dorfet, as I hear, is fled

To Kichmond, in the parts where he abides.
Shakejp. Richard III.

Thofe who apply themfclves to learning, are
forced to acknowledge one God, incoriuptible and
unbegotten ; who is the only true being, anu aliJei
for ever ibove th- higheft heavens, from whence
He beholds all the things thac are done in heaven

Md earth.
StilHngfi. Defence of Di/c. on Rom. Ido/ai,

3.

To

A B I
3.

A B J

To remain ; not ceafe or fail}
immoveable.

They chat truft in the Lord (hall be as mount
ZioPi whxh cannot be removed, but ahUdtb for
ever.
PJa/m cxxv. 1.
4.

Girl witk circumfluous tides,

be

to

Abi'der.

that abides or dwells in a place ; perhaps that lives or endures.
word

The tejr of the Lord toiJcth to life ; and hs

little in ufe.

ways a ftranger to the infijc of them.

Abi'ding.

[from

ti.f.
Continuance ; (lay ; fixed ftate.
We arc (Irangers before Thee and fojourners, as

South.

abide."]

contradiftion.
^ould by their fatherhoods be imperiuuOy obtruded upon God and his church ?

A'BJECT.

than that 1
ylMde ivith me.

adj.

Mean;

1.

worthlefs ;

7. It is ufed with hy before a thing; as, to
abide by his teftimony ; to abide by his

The trodJcn herb, of abjed thoughts and low.

abide by an opinion ; to maintain it ; to
abide by a man, is alfo, to defend or /up
But thefe forms are fomefort him.

expeft from them, and what obedience they fliall
be always ready to pay them, are not upon an
equal foot with bafe and abjrfl flatterers.

yfddijon. SftHator, N" 279.

Home is be brought, and laid in fumptuous bed,
Where many Ikilful leeches him aliuie.

To f:.Iwe his hurts.

Fairy S^ueen, b. i. c, ^.
fi. 17.
Whil': lions war, and battle for their dens,
Poor harmief; iambs thidt their enmity.

Sbah^f. Hen. VI. f. 3.

Bonds and affliOinns aiije mc.

y^ffs, xx.

23.

To bear or fupport the confequences of

Par. Left.

To bear or fupport, without being conquered or deftroyed.
But the Lord lie is the true God, he is the
Cod, and an everlafling Icing
At his

living

:

(hall

tremble, and the nations

Aallntbe .ible tOd^;i/r his indignation. Jtr. x. 10.
It muft le allowed a fair prefumption in favour
of the truth of my doilrines, that they hav3 abid
a very rigorous teft now for above thirty years,
and the mote ftiirtly they are looked into, the
moie they are confirmed.
IVxdviard, Litter i.

To bear without averfion
fenfe it is

;

in

which

commonly ufed with a nega-

tive.

Thou canit

not abide Tiridates; thia

iove of th)fcl(.

is

Thy vile race,
that io't,

ties

•

P'.l>e's

^

Ejjjy an Criticifm.

Abject, n.f. A man without hope; a
manwhofe miferies are irretrievable;

To

Yea, the akjeHi gathered themfclvcs together
pfalm xixv. 15.
Abje'ct. v. a. [abjicio, Lat.] To

throw away.

Gould not abide tube with; therefore wall thou
Oefervcdly confin d unto this rock.

Sbahff. Ttmfrft.

to read and write ?

Stuift.

Abinte'state. adj.
Lat.]

A

[of etb, from, and
term of law, im-

plying him that inherits from a man„
who, though he had the power to mate

Dryden'i Juvenal, Sat. 8.

a will, yet did not make it.

To A'bjugate. 1/. a. [abjugc, Lat.] To
unyoke, to uncouple.
Bin
To ABJU'RE. v. a. [abjuro, Lat.]
1
To caft off upon oath, to fwear not to
do or not to have fomething.
Either to die the death, or to abjure

For ever the fociety •» man.

A word rarely ufed.

Sbakcjpeare's Midfum. Night's Dreaiir^

No man, therefore, that hath not abjured hi»

Abje'ctedness. n.f. Ifrom abjed.] The

and Ivvorn allegiance to a preconceived
fantadical hypothefis, can undertake the defence
reafon,

ftate of an abjedt.

Our Saviour would love at no !efs rate than

of fuch a fuppofjtion.

Hale,

death; and, from the fupereml:icr,t height of
glory, ftooped and abafed himfejf to tire fuft^^rancc

2.

of the extremcft of indignities, and lunk himfelf
to the bottom of abjifiidntfs , to exalt our condition to the contrary extreme.
B(,yle's fVorks.

Abjiira'tion. »./ [horn abjure.} The

Abje'ction. w./. [homabjea.']

Mean-

hefsofraind; want of fpirit ; fervility;
bafenefs.

That this (hould be termed bafenefs, abjeaitin
of mind, or fervility, is it crcJijle ?
H'yoier,,b. v.

^ 47.

The juft medium lies betwixt pride and
abjcBian, the two extremes.

which

g!>)i natures

To bear or uffcr,

Whether it may be thought nccefTary, that in
certain trails of country, like what we call parities, there (hould be one man, at lead, of abili-

intejiatiis,

To what bafe ends, and by what abjea ways.
Are mortals urg'd through facred lull of praif ?

Can. i. 4.

When it has the plural number, abi/i^

lifications.

he rapine is f) abjcfl and profane.

but

Sidney, b. ii.

Though thou didA learn, had

J.

ufed of aflions.

abjcft

manner, meanly,

the

VEftrange.

A'bjectly. ad'u. [from abje^.]

In an

balcly,

fer-

A'BJECT^•Ess, n./. [from abjea."]

Ab-

vilely, contemptibly.

jeftiony fervility, meannefs.

.

ties, it frequently fignifies the faculties
or powers of the mind, and fometimes
the force of underftanding given by nature, asdiftinguifhedfrom acquired qua-

againft m^c.

Milloit'i

wrath the earth

2.

They not from trifles, nor from gods refrain.

they little know

How dearly I tt'ule that bead fo vain.

4.

'1

;

one of the loweft -condition.

a thing.

3.

Mean and defpicable

3.

!

king's palace.

We fee man and woman in the higheft inno-

well as of perfons expecting

Ah me

ning in knowledge, and underllanding fcience,
and fuch as had ability in them to ftand in the

Milton's Sampfin ^gcmftcs.

things.

2.

whom tjiere was no blemilh, but"
well-favoured, and (kilful in all wifdom, and cun-

Strongeft nf mortal men.

ufed of things prepared for per-

as

;

Children in

To loweft pitch of aijeS fortune thou art fall'n.
cence and perfeflion, and in the moft abjc^ ftate
of guilt and infir.nity.

Rogeis's Sermons.

Capacity of mind; force of underftanding
mental power.

z.

The rarer th^ example (lands,
Ey how much trom the top of wond'rous gbry,

To wait for, e.-cpeft, attend, wait upon,
:

performance, he affures us of the afliftance of his

condition.

compounded preterite.
To Abi'de. t/. a.

!

Holy Spirit,

Aldifin'a fnig Examiner.

Being of no hope or regard ; ufed of

Of the participle aiid, I have found
only the example in Woodward, and
(hould rather determine thztabidein the
aftive fenfe has no paflive participle, or

man minifter, let him do it as of theGod givcth that God in all things

may be glorified through JefusChrift. i Pa. iv. 11.
Wherever we find our abilities too weak for the

Milt. Para-.aje Left, b. ix. /. 571,

2.

74^

Exra, ii. 69.

If any

ability v^•hich

Honed men, who tell ;heir fovereigns what they

await

Milton s Sumfjon Agoniftei, I.

groveling:

that is, to rely upon them ; to

fons,

Thy mind with what amends is in my pow'r.

Rebellion

again indeed to Jerufalem, then 1 will ferve th::
2 Sam. xv. S.

u

They gave after their ab'dity unto the treafure.
bafe ;

Came like itfelf in bafe and ahjcS routs.
Led on by bloody yourh grjaJed with rage.
And counceoanc'd by boys and beggary.
Sbahfprare't Henry IV.
I wa? at fird, as other bealls thkr graze

Lord.

1.

Sidney, b,
If aught in my ability may ferve
To lighten what thou iulier'll, and appeafe

fpoken of perfons, or their qualities.

For thy fervant vowed a vow, while I atoJt at
Ge/hur in Syria, faying, if the Lord {ball bring me

thing low.

My heart doth feek another eftimation.

thrown

Lat.

\^abjeifus,

G-.r, xx'ix, 19.

;

Of finging thou hall got tiie reputation.
Good Thyrfis, mine 1 yield to thy ability j

away as of no value.]

fore a perfon, and at or in before a place.
It is tetter that I give her to thee,

ftrength, or any other quality.

Raiv'eigl.'i Hift:iry ^ihe ffcrld.

Ha!!.

with the particle ivit/f be-

Gn^u^s Cofmclogia Sacra, b. ii. e. 7.

The air in that region is fo violently removed,
and carried about with fuch fwiftnefs, as nothing
in tlut place can confifl or have abidirg.

Who canaiiVr, that, againli their own doilors,

any account.

Abi'lity. n.f. [Babihte, Fr.]
I. The power to do any thing, whether
depending upon (kill, or riches, or

Ciyran. xxix, 15.

1

fix whole books

own (kill

:

felves upon

were all our fathers : our days on the earth ate as
a fliadow, and there is none abidirg.

To endure without offence, anger, or

Jhould give her to another man :

Government of the Tongue, § 8.

By humility I mean not the abjtlincjs of a bafa
mind but a prudent care not to over-value our-

A

mind mull j&iJi and dwell upon things, or be al-

6. It is ufed

involved in the charge of lying.

The perfon

\^{iom abide.]

n.f.

of humour is implicitlir

Servility and aljeBncJs

He ftiU calamitous conllraint abides.
Pope'i Odyf b. iv. /. 750

To continae in the fame ftate.
Pr',v. xix. 23
that hath it (hall ao:Je fatistied.
There can be no ftuJy without time; and the

5".

A B J

To retraci, recant„ on abnegate a po,
(ition

upon oath.

of abjuring^ The oath takea for
that end.
Until Henry VIIL his time, if a man, havina
committed felony, could go. inio a church, o»
church-yard, before he were apprehended, he might
not be takeji from thence to the ufual trial of law,
aft

but confcfling his fault to the juftices, or to thr
coroner, gave his oath to forfakc tlie realm for
ever, which wascalled abjuration.

There are fome abjurations dill in force among
U5 here in England
a.», by the (latute of the 2jth.
of king Charles II. all persons that are aitmittcd
into any odice, civil or military, mud take the
teft 5 which is an ahjuratim'oS iomcdoclrines
ot
;

the church of Rome.

There is likewile another oath of clJuraiiM,
which.

,

-which laymsn and clergymen are bath obllgeil to
take; and thai is to at jure tlic Pretender.
Ail^e's Panrgrtn "Jurii Cutionici*

To ABLA'CTATE. v. a. [ablaao, Lat.]
To wean from the breaft.

Ablacta't ION. n.j.

One of the me-

thods of grafting ; and, according to
the fignification of the word, as it were
X weaning ol a cyon by degrees from its
mother ituck ; not cutting it off wholly
from the Itock, till it is firmly united
to that on which it is grafted.
Ab I A qjj E a't ion. tt./. [^ahlaqueatie, Lat.

To

to fend out of the way.

adl of fetiding abroad.

A'bleness.

Di£i.

A'blepsy.

a.

/

[aSxt-i'M,

Gr.] Want

of fight, blindnefs; unadvifednefs. D/V7.

TV A'bligatb. v. a, [abligo. Lit,"] To
- Di<S.
tic up from.
To A'BLOCATE. v. a. [abloco, Lat.] To

Abloca'tion. ti. j. [from ablocate.]

A'BLE.

[habile,

Fr.

Having power fnfficient ; enabled.

All mankind acknowledge tiiemfelves able and
fulHcient to do many things, which aftually they
never do.
South", Serm.
Every man (hall give as he is able, according to
the bleliing of the Lord ».y God, which he hath
given thee.
Deut. xvi. 17.
_

a verb, with the particle to,
generally having the power.

it fignifies

Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous j but
who is able to ftand before envy ? Prw, xxvii. 4.
4. With /or it is not often nor very properly ufed.
There have been fome inventions alfo, which
have been able for the utterance of articclate
founds, as the fpeaking of ccrt.iin word*.

Wi/imi'j Mathematlal Magic.

To make able; to en-

able, which is the word commonly ufed.

See Enable.

.

rivatives, in the fenfe either of good or

The rinfing of chemical preparations in

water, to diffolve and walh away any
acrimonious particles.
4. The cup given, without confecration,
to the laity in the popifli churches.

To A'BNEGATE.
Lat.]

Abnega'tion. n.f.
nial,

Shakefpcare* s Kir.g hear.

Strong of body.

power of every fine woman, to fe«urc at leaft half a doaen able-h'Jicd men to his
It lies in the

N" 4.

a.

i>.

[from abnego,

from

abtiego,

fecret anticipation of fomething future ;

an impreflion upon the mind of fome
'event to come; prognoftication ; omen.
I

—

Denial,

renunciation.

The abnegation or renouncing of all his own
holds and intciefts, and trufts of all that man is

mod apt to defend upon, that he may the more
Hammond.

expeditely follow Chrift.

Abnoda'tion. n.f. [abnodatio, Lat.]
The aft of cutting away knots from
trees : a term of gardening.

like not this.

For many men that ftumbic at the thre/hold,
Are well furttoid that danger lurJcs within.—
Tuih man, abodimcnti muft not now affright us.
Shakcjfcarc's Henry VI.
f, ili.
My lord bilhop alked him, Whether he had never
any lecret abodcincnt iir his mind ? No, replied the
duke; but I think fome adventure may kill me as

[abnegatia, Lat. deto deny.]

A

Abo'dement. n.f. [frova To abode.]

To deny.

1

well as another man,

To AB'OLISH.
1.

DiS.

-j.

ff^ot/on*

a.

[aboleo, Latin.]

To annul ; to make void.
laws or inllitutions.

Applied to

Abno'rmous. adj.

For us to aboltjh what he hath cftablilhed, were
prcfumption molt intolerable. Hcoktr, b. iii. ^ 10.

Abo'ard. adv.

the biihops, deans, and chapters, might be immediately taken away, and abolijhcd.

[abnormis, Lat. out
of rule.] Irregular, milhapen.
DiSi.

On the paiilamcnt's part it was propoled, that
all

[a fea-term, but adopted
into common language; derived immediately from the French a bord, as,

itfelf a word

None does offend, none, I fay none, I'll able 'em ;
Take that of me, my friend.

Every man,
After the hideous ftorm that follow'd, was
and, not confulcing, broke
;
Into a general prophecy, that this tempcft,
Da/hing the garment of this peace, abodcd
The fudden breach of it.
Sbakrff. Henry VIII.

A thing infpir'd

Pope's Iliad.
3.

aller

Add'ijai. FncbslJcr,

PhilUpt.

To dwell, torefide, to

inhabit.
Deep in a cave the Sibyl makes abode ;
Thence full of fate retum? , and of the God.
Dryd. jEn. 6.
7e Abo'de. i». a. [See Bode.] To foretoken or fbrefhow ; to be a prognoflic,
to be ominous. It is taken, with its de-

Wafh'd by the briny wave, the pious train
Are deans'd, and call th* ablutions in the main.

Arm it with rags, a pigmy's ftraw doth pierce it.

tn^eAj'l fervice.

To make abode.

3.

The water ufed in wafhing.

z.

Plate fin with gold.
And the ftrong lance of jufticc hurtiefs breaks

Able-bodied. o<^'.

Of long continuance in our temp'rate dime,

ill.

Henry VU. was not afraid of an able man, as

v. a.

The aft of cleanfmg, or walhing clean.
There is a natural analogy between the ablution
of the body and the purification of the foul ; between eating the holy bread and drinking the facred
chalice, and a participation of the body and blood
of Chrift.
Baylor t Worthy Covtmunicant.

otiier

LcwTs the Eleventh was. But, contrariwife, iic
was ferved by the abUfi men that were to be found ;
without which his aifairs could not have profpercd
a? they did.
Baccn's Henry VII.
Such gambol faculties he hath, that (hew a
weak mind and an abU body, for the which the
prince admits him.
Shakejf, Henry IV. f. ii.

To A'ble.

Dryden's Dedicat. to jSneiJ.

The woodcocks early vifit, and abode
Foretcl a liberal harveft.

That which wafhes clean.
2. That which has the power of cleanfmg.
Dia.

ready.]
1. Having ftrong faculties, or great ftrength

3. Before

fonably judged the bufinefs but often months.

Dia.

to wa(h away.]

Ikilful,

riches, or any
power of mind, body, or fortune.

Sbakefpeare's Merchant o/V^mce,

Making a Ihort abode in Sicily the fecond time,
landing in Italy, and making the war, may be rea*

To be

1.

habilis, Lat.

or knowledge,

Sweet friends, your patience for my long abode;

A'b l u e n t. adj. [abluens, Lat. from abluo,

1 .

aJj.

Stay, continuance in a place.

Not I, but my affairs, have made you wait,

A

A term of gram- Ablu'tion. tt./. [ablttfio, Lat.]

thing is taken away.

,

Habitation, dwelling, place of refidence.
But I know thy abode and thy going out, and
thy coming in,
2 ^'"gh »i»- -t?"
Others may ufe the ocean as their road.
Only the Englilh make it their abode;
Whofe ready fa'ijs with every wind can fly.
And make a cov'nant with th' inconftant flcy.

2.

letting out to hire.

To Ablu'de. -v. n. [abludo, Lat.]
unlike.

mar.

1.

Calvin^ s Lexicon Juridicum.

aft of taking away.

cafe which, among other fignifications,
includes the perfon from whom fome-

jiddifin'i Ovid's Mr:ami>rfht^es, i. iiK

Abo'de. tt./. [from abide.]

fP'ailer.

Perhaps properly by him who has hired
it from another.

Bacm's Office af AlUnaiions.

Thefixth cafe of the Latin nouns; the

Then fummon'd in ray crew, and went abcarJ,

let out to hire.

fered

A'hlative. n. a. [eblati'vus, Lat.]
1
That which takes away.

When morning rofe, I fent my matea to bring

D.'3.

fo if it be luf-

ABLA'TION. »./ [ablatio, Lat.] The

Into a Ihip.
Supplies of water from a ncighb'rlng fpring,
Whilft I the motions of the wind expio: 'd ;

Prodigal expence on meat and drink.

^tm, that by many rich and

decrcafe.

keep them aboard.
Sir W. Ratvleigb's EJ/ayt,

That nation 4oth fo excel, both for comelinefs
and abtenejs, that from neighbour countries they
ordinarily come, fome to ftrive, fome to learn,
fome to behold.
SiJniy, b. ii.

Trench the 'ground, and make it ready Jor the
fpting : Prepare alio foil, and ufe it where you
have occafion : Dig borders. Uncover as yet roots
oftieet, where ablajucmion is requifite.

to ftarve, by want of ablatjueal'ion, and
other good liulbandry, this yearly fruit will much

otlierwife

2.

Abliguri'tion. n./. [abliguritio, hzt.]

fruitful branches fpreadcth itfelf :

Fairy Sueeti, b. ii. cant. 6.
if it plcafcd him, or

He might land them,

n.f. [from able.'] Ability of

body or mind, vigour, force.

jLvtilyii's Kahndar,

2.

Di£l.

The art or praftice of opening the
ground about the roots of trees, to let
the air and water operate upon them.

«iaint:iin this fihxr

He loudly eall'd to fuch as were abnari.
The little bark unto the Hiore to draw,
And him to ferry over that deep ford.

A'BLEGATE. v. a. [ablep. Lat.]
To fend abroad upon fome employment

Ablega'tion. tt./. [from abUgate.'\ The

The tenure in chief is the very root that doth

2.

ABO

ABO

A3 L

a lord,

eifvoyer

a bord.

Bord is

of very doubtful original,
and perhaps, in its different acceptations, deducible from different roots.
Bopb, in the ancient Saxon, fignified a
hatife ; in which fenfe, to go aboard, is
to take up refidence in a Ihip.
I. In a ihip.

Clarendon, b,

2,

viii.

To put an end to, to deftroy.
The long continued wars between the Engli/h
and the Scots, had then raifed invincible jealoufies and hate, which long continued peace hath
Sir Jchn Hayward.
Tiiat Jhall Perocles well requite, I wot,

fince abitijhfd.

And, with thy blood, aboltfi fo reproachful blot.
Fairy S^uecn,

More deftroy'd than they.

We ihould be quite abolyb'd, and expire,
Milton.
«

Or

ABO

ABO

Pride goes, bated, curfcd, and ahmtnated

Or wilt thou tJijfsIf
and unrrake
For him, what for thy glory thou haft made ?
Abtl'i/h thy CT«3tion,

Miltin, t-

Southern*! Oroonok^*

nals ; efpecinlly where the fibres are the tendereft,

Arhutb, en Altttunti.

1.

To affift king Charles by Engllfli
jefls, who

2.

quently ufed than aboUjhment.
From the total abdiihn of the popular power,

fo great

abomination,
Sivift^

Milton's Pnradifc Loji, b. ii. /. 4jr»

Abo'ktively. ach). [from aborti-T.'e.'] Born

Th' adulterous Antony, n»eft large

without the due time; immaturely, untimely.
Abo'rtiveness. ft. y. [from abortive.^
The ftate of abortion.

Sbakefp, Antan^ and Cleopatra,

Abo'r.tment. «. /. [from abort.] The

The caufe of pollution.
And the high places ihat were before Jerufa-

2 fCirgSj xxiii, 13.

JBORIGINES. n.f. [Lat.] The earlieft

Aiilun

Abo'rtion. n.f.
.

The queen

and miniftry might eafily redref
this abominab/e grievance, by endeavouring t»
choofc men of virtuous principles.
Sivifi^s Przjffifor the Advancement of Relighn.

1.

2.

In low and ludicrous language, it is
a word of loofe and indeterminate cen-

we muft forbear to urge athcifts with the
corruption and abominablinefs of their principles.
Bentley's Sermors.

A B o'm A B Y adv. [from abominable.]
A word of low or familiar language,

To abhor, decdt, hate utterl/

The Lord is high above all nations, and hi»
glory above the heavens.
PJalm. cxiii. 4.
The public power of all focicties is above every
foul contained in the fame focicties.

Hooker, b.

joy above the joy of the heart.
EccleJ:aJ!icus,xxx,-^(i.

To her

AJdifon. Guardian, N" 106.

Thn^ didft refign thy manhood, and the place
Wherein God fet thee above her, made of thee.
And for thee whofe perfc^ion far exceU'd
:

Hers, In all real dignity.

And feeds with fecret joy her filent breaft.
Drydeirs j-EntiJ,

4. In a (late of being faperior to ; unai•

tainable by.
It is

an old and true dift'nfiion, that things

may be above our reifon, without being contrary

I .

it.
Of this kind are the power, the nature,
and the univerfal prefence of God, with innumerable other points.
Swift*

to

If ever he have child, abtrtive be it.

Prodigious, and untimely brought to light.
Sbakefp. Richard n\.
All th' unaccomplifli'd works of nature's hand.
Abortive, monftrous, or unkindly mix'd,

'

Milton's Paraiiife Loji. b. X. /. 147^
Latona fees her ihiae above the reft.

Abo'rtiyI!. ac/J, [abortiviis, Lat.]
That which u brought forth before the
due time of birth.

5.

Beyond;

morfe than.

We were prcfl'ed out of meafure, above ftrength }
iofomuch that we defpaired even of life.

Diflo.v'd on earth, fleet liithcr.

Mi Umi > Paradif; LcJI, bXa,
'

i.

There is no riches above a found body, and no

their guilty parents the like dcftruftion.

.

To ABO'MINATE. -v. a. [alminor, Lat.]

Exodus, XXX. 14.

In a fuperiour degree, or to a liiperiour
degree of rank, power, or ex'Ccllence.

3.

Take the fine (kin of an abortive, and, with
Aarch thin laid on, prepare your ground or tablet.
Peacbam on Dratvirtg.
Many are preferved, and do lignal fervicc to
their cnintry, who, without a provifion, might
have perilled as abcrtit-es, or have come to an
untimely end, and perhaps have brought upon

»i<e,

Arluiinot.

give an ofF.ring unto the J^ord;

Shakejp. King yobn.

eternal and cffcnlial difference between virtue And

have obicrved great abufea and diforders in
your family ; your ferv.int3 are mutinrru* and
i]uarielfome, and cheat you mod abonisahly.

Black vapours climb aloft, and cloud the day,
Dryden, ^mid vii. /. 643*
2. More in quantity or number.
E\cry one that palTeth among then), that arenumbered from twenty years old and above, IhaU

Plainly denouncing vengeance upon John.

able ; hatefulncfs, odioufnefs.
Till we have proved, in its proper place, the

and bupan,

To a higher place; in a higher place.

Abortives, and prcfages, tongues ot heav'n.

Abo'minableness. n. / [from abominable.] The quality of being abomin-

I

The produce of an untimely birth.

But they wi lipluck away its nat'ral caufes.
And call them meteors, prodigies, and figns,

Stakeffeare'i As you fUeir.

a,

Above the brims they force their fiery way ;

Perhaps anciently
any thing irregularly produced.
No common wind, no cultomcd event.

—

often fenoufly ufed.

Sandyi.

fore the due time.

They fay yon Me a melancholy fcllow.^I am

extremely, exfcnfe.
It is not

The aft of bringing forth untimely.

R(nve.

I do love it better than laughing.
Thofe
;
th-t are in extremity of cither, arc abominab/e
fellr'jvs, and betray themfelves to every modern
cenfurr, worfe than drunkards.

fo

[from

So when with crackling flames a cauUlron fries^

Abo'rtive. n.f. That which is born be-

fure.

fref.

bo'ven, Dutch.]

The bubbling waters from the bottom rife

His wife mifcarricd ; but, as the abortion proved
only a female foetus, he comforted himlclf.
Arbutknot and Pt.pe't Martinus Scribkrui.
Behold my arm thus blaftcd, dry and withcr'd,
Shnjnlc like a foul alortif^n, and decay'd,
Lilce fome untimely produ£l of the feafons.

any abominable unclean thing, even that foul Ihall be
cut off from his people.
Leviticus, vii. 21.

ill

1.

[uborlio, Lat.]

Thefe then need caufe na aborticn.

Unclean.
The foul that Ihall touch any unclean beaft, or

ceedingly ; in an

Saxon ;

;

yiiom'waile, accurs'd, the haufe of woe.

exccflively,

ABO'VE.

To ABO'RT. -v. n. [abcrto, Lat.] To bring
fxth before the time to mi(carry. /)/<?.

This infernal pit

fignifying

be brought into ufe by the induftry of converted
penitents, whole wretched carcafes the impartial
laws dedicate, as untimely tcafts, to the worms
of the earth, in whofe womb thofe dcfcrted mineral riches muft ever lie buried as loft aborttnen's^
unlefs thofe be made the adlive midwives to deBacon^s Pbyjical Remains*,
liver them.

inhabitants of a country ; thofe of whom
no original is to be traced; as, the Welfli
in Britain.

Arbuttnu on Our.
[alominabilij, Lac]

Hateful, deteilable ; to be loathed.

I,

thing brought forth out of time ; an untimely birth.
Concealed treafures, now loft to mankind, (hall

Icm, which, wcce on the right hand of the mount
of corruption, which Solomon the king of Ifrael
had builded for Aihtorcth the abominatkn of the
Zldonians, and for Chemo/h the ab'.minaticn of
the Moabites, and iot Milcom the abomination ot
the children cf Ammon, did the king defile.

of all voluntary motion, by the ftoppage of the flux and reflux ot the animal fpirits
through the nerves dellined for thofe motions.

I !«

South^s Sermins*

Wickednefs ; hatefol or fhameful vice.

That nofcs it agaioil: us.

Crt%o*i Cofmclogia Sacra, b, iii. r. 4.

Abo'minable. aJj.

Many politic conceptions, fo elaborately formed
and wrought, and grown at length ripe for delivery,
do yet, in the iffue, mifcarry and prove abortive.

In his abcminationtf turns you oft.
And gives his potent regiment Co a trull.

5.

or mifcarries, from
This is lefs proper.

fails

whatever caufe.

thing that defileth, neither whatfocver worketh
Rt'v, xxi. 27.
ahminaticny or maketh a lie.

4.

That which

4.

Gentjis, xlvi. 34.

An apoplexy is a fudden abelitUn of all thtfenfes, and

Wide-gaping ; and with utter lofs of being
Threatens him, plurgM in that abcrtive gulfl

And there fhall in no wife enter Into it any

by Agrippa, been accepted inllead of Matcenas's
model, that ftate might have continued unto this
day.

The void profound
Of nneffential night receives him next.

Pollution, defilement.

3.

may be dated the ruin of Rome : for hi;u the reducing hereof to its ancient condition, propofeil

3.

have nothing in

whom they hold for heretic?.
The objed of hatred.

tians.

fuch ceremonies, as they require to be

Aboli'tion. n.f. [from a^c/r/A.] The aft
of aboliftiing. '1 his is now more fre-

2.

or Dutch
him odious to his new fub-

Every ilicphcrd is an abomination to the Egyp-

aboli/hcd, are retained by us with the hurt of the
church, or with lefs benefit than the abalipmcr.!

1.

Sbakefp. Henry VI. f. iu

That which brings forth nothing.

3.

as theft:

Jiccirr, b. iv.
of them would bring.
He Ihould think the thchjhmert of cpifcopacy
among us, would prove a mighty Icandat and corruption to our faith, and manifeftly dangerous to
our monarchy. SiL'ifri Cburcb of Enfrland Man.

Ay, and allay this thy abortive pride.

Hatred, detertation.
forces, would rendi^r

aboliflies.

aft of aboliftiing.
The plain and dircfl way had been to prove,

How often haft thou waited at my cup.
Remember it, and let it make thee creft-fall'n y

A BO MI N a'tION. «.y*.

Abo'lisher. «,/. [from ahelijh.l He that

Abo'lishment. n./. [from aiolijh.'] The

of time.

myftery, refinement, and intrigue, either in a
prince or minifter.
S^vift.

Abo'i. !SH ABLE. a;^'. \^xova abolijh .'\ That
which may be abolifhed.

all

Figuratively, that which fails for want

2.

He profened both to ahommate and defpife all

folidate many 6bres together, abolUhing many ca-

that

Phillifs.

Abominatef and loath thJs cruelty.

Dryd. yirg, Geo, iii.
contraft, harden, and con-

as in the brain.

When other orchards fmile, abortive fail.

We arc not guilty of your injuries,

The ftench abuhjh, or the favour tame.
Tpirits

Th' autumnal fjafon, but, in fummer's pride

No way confent to them ; but do ai>Iior>

A 163.

iii.

Nor will his fruit expeft

t>y

Hammond*

all,

Nor cotild Vuicjnian flame

Fermented

AB a

2 Cor. \. 8.
56.

Jo baling thoughts voconfufed, and

bciiig ab'^

To ABO'UND. Vi n. [abundo, Ltt. abonJer,

to JiftmEulfti one thing from another, where there
exaflnefs of
is bat the le»ft diflcrencc, confifts the

judgment »nd cleirnefs of reafon, which is in one
L^ckt.

man ebtn'C another.

French.]
To have in great plenty; to be coIt is ufed fometimes
pioufly ftored.
with the particle in, and fometimes the

1.

The inhabitants of Tirol liave miny privileges
eh(n/e

tliol'e

of the other hereditary countries of

MJifir.

thf emperor.

particle luiih.

A

phrafe
6. Too proud for ; too high for.
chiefly ufed in familiar expreffion.

The king-becoming graces,
have no relilb of them, but abound
In the divifion of each fevetal crime,
Shakejpeare's Macbeth,
Afting it many ways.
Com, wine, and oil, are wanting to this ground.
In which our countiies fruitfully abound.
Drydcn's Indian Emperor.
faithful man fliall abound tvilb bleffings :
but he that maketh hafte tu be rich, fliall not be
Prov. xxviii. 20.
innocent.
Now that languages are made, and abound with
combinations,
for
an ulual way of
words (landing
getting complex ideas, is by the explication of
Locke.
thofe terms that (land for them.

world, laboured in arts and occupations,, and were
thvc notliing that tended to promote the conI'tft'i Oiiyjly; r.Ms.
\enienccs of life.

Abo've. adv.
I. Over-head ; in a higher place.
To men (landing below, men Handing aloft

A

feem much lelTcned ; to thofc ahcvc, men Handing
Bacon,
below, feem not fo much k-fl'encd.
he cftabllflied the clouds above; when
he Ihcngtlitncd the fountains of the deep ; when
he gave to the fca bis decree, that the waters fliould
not pafs his ccmmandment; when he appointed
tlie foundations of the earth ; then 1 was by him,
us, one brought up with him ; and I was daily his
delight, rejoicing always befire him.
Pnyterbs, viii, 48.
Every good gift, and every fti(a& ^ift, is from
atovty and comcth down from the Father of

When

lights,

witli

And becaule iniquity (hall abound, the love of
Matthew, xxiv. 12.
many (hall wax cold.
Words are like* leaves, and where they moft

Much

Dryden, yEmid.

a. In the regions of heaven.

Your prailc the birds (hall chant in every grove,

And winds /hall waft it to the pow'rs above.
Pope's Pajiorah.

Before.

[See Above-cited.]

ahove, that thefe two machines of the balance, and the dira, were only ornamental, and
that the -fuccefs of the duel had been the fame
Diyd. Vedicat. ^ne'id.
without them.

Above all.

In the firft place ; chiefly.

Urics, to tell their ftory in plain tngliih, and to
let us know, in our mother tongue, what it
is
our brave countrymen are about.

Mdifin. Spelt. N" 309.

Appendant to the perfon ;

5.

As I will give you when we go, you may
Boldly affault the necromancer's hall.
Milton's Comus,
It is not ftrange
fairer fex (hould

me, that perfons of the

to

like, in all

things about them,
that handfomenefs for which they find themfelves

moft liked.

Boyle on Colours.

6. Relating to the perfon, as a fervant, or

dependant.

roe, who well (hewed, there is
that ferves becaufe he loves.

no fervice like hi*
Sidney, b. ii.

Relating to perfon, as an aft or office.
Good coiporal, for my old dame's fake, ftand

7.

my friend (he hath no body to do any thing
about her when I am gone, and die is old and cannot^ help herl'clf.
Sbakcjpeare's Henry IV.
:

Abo'ut. ati'v.
Circularly, in a round ; eircum.
The weyward fiders, hand in hand,

I.

Pofters of the fea and land.
Thus do go about, about.
Thrice to thine, and thrice to mine.

Dry den's Fables.

Near to.

z.

as deaths.

If you have this about jou.

Liking very well the young gentleman, fuch I
took him to be, admitted this Deiphantus about

Let not mercy and truth forlake thee. Bind
them about thy neckj write them upon the table
Proverbs, iii. 3.
of thy heart.
She cries, and tears her cheeks,
Her hair, her veft j and, (looping to the fands,
Mout his neck (he cad her trembling hands.

I faid

Locie.

Our armies ought to be provided with fecre-

Round, furrounding, encircling.

I.

whether laainefs or hafte, often mKleada

«•

outfide.]

;

3,

this,

Pope's EJJay on Criticiftn.

which feems to fignify encircling on the

The TrojansyVoBi ai^t their foes beheld
And with arm'd legions all the rampircs fiil'd.

nature.

always the /horted way to iu
end, would prefently obtain the knowledge ir is
about, and then fet upon fome new enquiry.
But

fruit of fenfe beneath is rarely found.

ij.

i.

againll

is

culties, choofcs

abound.

ABO'UT. frep. [abutan, or aburon. Sax.

yarr.es,

Labour, for labour's fake,

The underftanding, as well as all the other fa-

To be in great plenty.

2.

whom is no variablencfs, neither

fliadow of turning.

elTufion of wine ; to fignify to ui the nature anl
facrednefs of the liturgy we an about.
Taykr.

I

princes, in the earlier ages of the

Kings and

ABO

ABO

ABO

Speak unto the congregation, faying, get you
up from about the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan,
Exodus.
and Abiram.

And thrice again to make up nine.
Sbakefp, Macleti.

In circuit, in compafs.

:.

—Two

I ftudied Virgil's defign, his difpofition of it,
his manners, his judicious management of the
ii jures, the fober retrenchments of his fenfe, which

Thou doft nothing, Sergius,
Thou cand endeavour nothing, nay, not thin?:,
But I both fee and hear it; and am with thee.

the waid

always leaves fomethlng to gratify our imagination, on which it may enlarge at pleafure ; but
above ati, the elegSnce of bis expreffion, and th?

By and before, about and in thee too.

wade, I am about thrift.
Shake/pearl.
A tun about was ev'ry pillar there,
A polifh'd mirrour (hone not half fo clear.
Diyd. Fables.

Ben yonf. Cataline.
.

harmony of his numbers.
Dryden' s Dedieat'ion to the JEmid.

Above-board.
I.

In open fight ; without artifice or trick,

A figurative expreffion, borrowed from
gamefters, who, when they put their
hands under the table, are changing
their cards. It is ufed only in familiar
language.
It is the part alfo of an honed man to deal
above-board, and without tricks.

L'EJIratige.

a. Without difguife or concealment.

Though

have not been wanting fuch
heretofore, as have praftifed thefe unworthy arts,
for as much as there have been villains in all
placet and all ages, yet now-a-days they are
there

owned above-board.

Soutb's Sermons.

Cited before. A figurative expreffion, tak?n from the ancient
manner of writing books on fcrolls ;
where whatever is' cited or mentioned
before in the fame page, mull be abeme.

Above-cited.

It appears from the authority abcve-cited, that
this is afaQ confcfled by heathens thomfclves.

yiddifon on the Cbtijiian Religion,

Above-crovnd.

An expreffion ufed to

do not remember, that Homer any whi-re falls
into the faults above-meniioned, which were indeed
tbe falTc refincmcats of latter ages.
1

.^ddijon, Sfel}aiir,'ti<' z-jij.

with

Concerning,
ing to.

regard

to,

relat-

When Conrtantine had (inifhed an houfe for
the fervice of God at Jcrufalem, the dedication
he judged a matter not unworthy, about the foIcmn performance whereof, the greatcft part ol
the bifliopsin Chriftendom (hould meet together.

property.

It

men's court, when they are a(ked abiut the ratr
of lands, the abilities of tenants, the (late of
trade, to anfwer that all things are in a flourifh-

ing condition.
^.

Sivift's Short yie^u of Inland.

In a ftate of being engaged in, or employed upon.
Our blelfed Lord was pleafed to command the
rcprefentation of
crofi (hould

be

his

death and

facrilice on the

made by bieaking of bread and

yards and

I am in
am about no

indeed
I

Bacon's New yitalantis.

Here and there ; every way ; circa.
Up role the gentle virgin from her place,
And looked all about, if (he might fpy
Her lovely knight.
Fairy Sluecn, b. i. cant. 'u. Jlanx,

33.

A wolf that was pad labour, in his old age,
borrows a habit, and (b about he goes, begging
charity from door to door, under the difguife of a
pi'gfim.

L'E/lrange,

5. With to before a

verb ; as, about to fly,
upon the point, within a fmall dirtance
of.

SiilUn^Jlcct.

hath been pra^ifed as a method of making

Piftol :

two yards about} but

nearer.
J..

Children (hould always be heard, and fairlj and
kindly anfwcred, when they afk after any thing they
would know, and defire to be informed abcut.
Curiofity (hould be as carefully cheridied in children, as other appetites fupprefled*
Locke.

am about.

yards of the pillar, they found themfelves all
bound, and could go no farther; yet fo as they
might move to go about, but might not approach

Hooker.

the drapery as about the face where the principal
refemblance lies.
Drydrn.
They arc moft frequently ufed as words equiboth
of tliem indifferently fignify
valent, and do
either a fpeculative knowledge of things, or a
praftlcal (kill about them, according to the exigency of the matter or thing fpoken of.
^ill.t. Sermon i.
Theft is always a fin, although the particular
fpecies of it, and the denomination of particular
a^s, doth fuppofe pofitivelawstf^cur dominion and

you what I

Nearly; circiler.
When the boats were come within about fixty

j.

The painter is not to take fo much pains about

fignify alive ; not in the grave.

ABOVE-MENTiONED.See Above-cited.

I'll tell

more.— No quips now,

j

Thefe dying lovers, and their floating fons,
Sufpend the fight, and filence all our guns
Beauty and youth, abjut to pcrilh, finds

Such ncble pity in brave Englilh minds.
6.

Round

;

Waller,

the longeft way, in oppofition

to the Ihort llraight way.
Gold had thefe natures; gieatnefs of weight;
dofenefs of parts ; fixation; pliantncfs, or I'oftncfs ; immunity from raft ; colour, or tindlure
of yellow: Therefore the fure way (though mod
about) to make golcl,>s to know the caulcs of the
fevcral natures before rehearftd.

Baccn'i Natural Hift. N" yii.
Spies ot the Volfcians

Held me ia chacc, that i was forced to wheel
Three

A B R

A B R

Three or faar miles aiout ; elk h«J I, Sir,
Hall an hour fince brought my report.
Sbakrfp, Corklanu$,
_

7. To bring about ; to bring to the point
or ftate defired ; as, he has brought about

8.

To come about ;

Spfdanr.

ftatutes.

Dryd.Falila.

He that abridges

2.

A writer of compendiums or abridg-

from the French a bout ;
a bout d'une cho/e ; njcnir a bout de

Hookcry b. ii. ^

A. Bp. for Archbifhop ; which fee.
againft agues.

.

2.

rub off ; to wear away from the other
parts
to wafte by degrees.
By thi« itieanj there may be a continued fap-

5.

5.

IS

lucccflively ahradid from

A diminution in general.

The negative precepts of men may ccafe by
rnany inftrumcnts, by contrary cuftoms, by public difrelilh, by long omiflion
but the negative
precepts of CoJ never can ceafe, but when they
are exprefsly abrogated by the fame authority.
Taylor's Rule of living holy,

Even that nothing, which at firft wc were.
_^

dccurfinn of wale t.

herb.
(I./ [See Abrade.]
The adl of abrading, or rubbiog off.
2. [In medicine.]
The wearing away of

4.

1.

the natural mucus, which covers the
membranes, particularly thofe of the
ftomach and guts, by corrofive or Iharp
medicines, or humours.
^'>uincy.

The matter worn off by the attrition of

3.

_

It was his fin and his
folly which brought him
under that abridgment.

1.

!

•vio,

In a figurative fenfe ; in a ftate to be
diffufed or extended, in a ftate of
fuch
beginning as promifes a progrefs.
That man, that fits within a monarch's heart.
And ripens in the funlhinc of his favour.
Would he abufr the count'nance of the king.

ftill

keepine

23.

7,^' determination of the will, upon enouiry,
the direftion of that guide : and
he,
that ha. a power to aO or not to
aft, according

3.

To deprive of
Vol. I.

;

to

W

Loikc

off from.

In"

409s

Shakefpeart.

The abrupt and unkind breaking off the two
(irft parliaments, was wholly imputed to the
duke
of Buckingham.
Clarendon,
Abrupt, with eagle-fpeed (he cut th« flcy
j
Inftant invifible to mortal eye.
Then (irft he recognii'd th' ethereal gueft.

Mihon'i Paradife Loft, b. ii. /. 463.

Again, the lonely fox roams (it abroad.

And flies the hated neighbourhood of man.
Out of the houfe.

/.

To know the caufe of your aira^r departure.

On Itcret rapine bent, and midnight fraud;
Now haunts the cli(r, now traver(es the lawn.

2.

A ii.

Sudden, without the cuftomary or proper preparatives.

My lady craves

See Broad.]
Without confinement; widely; at large.

Ucliverancp.

.

as fuch determination direfls, i.
free.
Such determination abridga not that power
wherein li-

Milton's Paradife Loft,

3.

Thro' all the coafts of dark dcrtruclion feek

IS following

berty confifts.

Tlic happy ide.

Intermit no watch
Againft a wakeful foe, while I abroad.

To contraa, to diminifti, to cut (hort.

3.

ThomJ. fVintfr,

Divided, without any thing intervening.
Or fprcad his airy flight.
Upborn wi^h indefatigable wings.
Over the vaft abrupt, ere he arrive

broad.
1.

broke*

Broken, craggy.

Tumbling through rocks abrupt.
2.

Abroad, adv. [compounded of a and

the fame fubftance.

All thefe fayings, being declared
by Jafm of
Cyrene in 6ye books, we will effay to abridit
in
one volume.
i Af^rr.ii.

Shakefprari't Henry IV.p.W.

[abruftus, Lat.

Refiftlcls, roaring, dreadful, down it come*
From the rude mountain, and the mo4ry wild.

Alack what mifchiefs might be let abroach.
In (hadow of fuch greatncfs
,

words,

1.

2.

abbre-

adj.

off.]

!

Lat.]

To make Ihorter in

I.

Shake/peare's Henry VI. p. ii.

S-wifi't Mifcel.

See Apricot.

To nRI'DGE. -v. a. [abreger, Fr.

in ufe.]

to

Sweet Nell, ill can thy noble minJ abrott

ABRU'PT.

Stays till 'tis fair, jet feems to call a coach.

Drydtn't Fttla.

[from To brook, with

The abjcd people gazing on thy face
With envious looks, ftill laughing at thy (hnme.

Dryd. Virgil.

abrraft.

a.

to

In a pofture to run out, or yieltl the
liquor contained; properly fpoken of

The jars of genVous wine
He fet abroach, and for the fcaft prepar'd.

<v.

a word not
^Tofuperabundant,
brook,
bear,
endure.

vefibls.

Stakcff.TnUuiandCreJpJa.
The riders rode abrtaft, and one his (hielH,
His lance of cornel wood another held.

ABRicoT.

Ta Abro'ok.

Abro'ach. ad'i/. [See 7"o Broach.]

.

_

or all thofe laws, which were in force againft the
exercife of the Roman religion. Clarendon, b. viii.

South.

.

4.

The commi/Tionen from the confederate Ro.
man catholics, demanded the ahregatioinnA repeal

is

TheTempler fpnice, while ev'ry (foui'tabroach.

Xhakrff. H,nry V.
For hon.iur travels in a Sreight fo narrow.
Where one but goes abicajl,

_,

law.

not barely a man's abridgment in his
external accommodations which makes him
miferable, but when his confcieoce
(hall tell him that

bodies.

Tarry, fweet foul, for mine, then fly

Abro'gation. n.f. [abrogatio, Lat.]
The ad of abrogating ; the repeal of S

Rertraint from any thing pleafing
contraftion of any thing enjoyed.
It

ABRE'AST.a^/t;. [See Breast.] Side by
fide ; in fuch a pofition that the
breads
may bear againft the fame line.

My coufin Suffolk,
My foul (hall thine keep company to hcav'n

:

The

The name of an

Abra'siom.

Dcnne.

.

Contraction ; redudion.
conftant delire of happincfs, and the conftraint it puts upon Us, no body,
I
think, accounts an abridgment of liberty, or at lead an
abridgment of liberty to be complained of.
Locke.

Hale.

Abraham's Balm.

Without, not within.

which occailons cealing, laws of that kind do ab~
rotate themlelves.
Hooker, b. iv. (j 14.

All trying, by a love of littlcncfs,

3.

that

peaL; to annul.
Laws have been made upon fpecial occafions,

Soutb*s Sermon:,

To make abrid^menti, and to draw to lefs.

them by

way and

To A'BROGATE.i-.a. [abrogo, La.t.] Ta
take away from a law its force ; to re-

;

ply of what

Atfrrb. Serm.

_

In all dire<5lio!is, this
with wide expanfion.

Bodies politic, being fubjcdl, as much as nato dili'olurion, by divers means, there are
undoubtedly more ftatcs overthrown through difoaiei bred within themlelves, than through violence from abroad.
Hooker, Dedication.

ment and fum total of all abfu.ditics.

To

[abrado, Lat.]

(hall

tural,

Idolatry is certainly the firft-born of folly, the
great and leading paradox ; nay, the very abridg-

^BRACADA'BRJ. A fuperftitious charm

tranflatioii,

Dryd, Virg, Mh, Tl.

work concom-

larger

abridgment of alt volumes of Icripture.

quelqu'un.

verbal

An elm difplays her dulky arms abroad,

Surely this commandment containeth the law
and the prophets; and, in thi; one word, is the

Some of thefe phrafes feem to derive

v. a.

4.

pend ; a fummary.

their original

To ABRA'DE.

a Ihortener.

tradled into a fmall compafs ; a

In common language,
come about a man, to circum-vent him.

at

Full in the midft of this infernal road.

The epitome of a

1.

y^b"t vii. 19,
they fay, to

'veitir

;

A B R i'd G M E N T. »./. [abregcfnent, French.]

Did not Mofes give you the law, and yet none
o( you keepeth the law ? Why go ye about to kill
•

things at home.

1.

ments,

9. To go about ; to prepare to do it.

^^

Ayhfe~! PaiergcK Jurn CwrMci

barred from, cut fliort,

Till morn continu'd, both refolv'd to fall.

olTers

have the misfortune nf that young traveller, who
loft his own language abroad, md brought home
no other inftead of it.
Sir J. DenhamWhat learn our youth abroad, but to refine
The homely vices of tlieir native land ?
Dryd. Span. Friar,
He who fojoums in a foreign country, relera
what he krs and hears abroad, to tlie ftate of

Abri'dger. n.f.

Well pleas'd they went to reft ; and if the gale

Hooker, Prrf.

Whofoever

AhKi DGED OF. fa-t. Deprived of, de-

One evening it befel, that looking out,
The wind they long had wirtid was come aio/,/

Pope's Letters.

In another country.
They thought it better to be fomewhat hardly
yoked at home, than for ever abroad, and difcre-

charged from pontage and murage
but this prij
vilege has been abridrid them fince
by fe>eral

Snm. i. 20.

Shaicfpeare'iTcmpeJl,

walked a whole hour abroad, with-

dited.

Shaktjpcare'i Merchant of Venice.
They were formerly, by the common law, dif-

iiate or point.
It has commonly the
idea of revolution, or gyration.
Wherefore it cime to pals, when the time was
come ahcu!, alter Hannah had conceived, that (he
I

3.

From fuch a noble rate.

to ccjie to fbme certain

*>"« ' fo"-

Lady

out dying after it,

have difaWed mine eftate.
By (hewing fomcthing a more fwelling poit.
Than my faint means would grant continuance
;
Nor do I now make moan to be abridgd

Wiiether this will be brought aioof, by breaking

—

And fubjefts t\one abroad.

I

his furpofes,
his Iiead, I very much queition.

A B R

which fenfe it is followed by the particle
from, or of, preceding the thing uken
away.

Prior.

Welcome, Sir,
This cfU'« my coyrt ; here h»v« I few attendants.

Pope's Odyff. b, !,

4.

Unconnefted.
The abrupt ftile, which hath many breache%
and doth not fccm to end but fall.

Btn Jonjon't Difcoverj.

C

AfiRv'pTeU.

Abhu'pteo. aJj. [ahruptui, Lat. a word

The Rate of being abfettt, oppofed to

1.

prefence.

Broken off fuddenly.

little in ufe.]

AB S

A B S

A B S
The tffcCti of their afl. ity »r« not prccipitoudy atmftal, but grjdunlly proceed to their

Sir, 'tis

fit

.

Bntvii'i Vulgar F.rnurt, h. vi. lo.

ccfTitions.

You hxve ftrong party to detend yourfelf
Sbakcjpeare^ i Coriolanut*

His friends beheld, and pity'd him in vain.
For what advice can eafe a lover's pain ?

Child's Di/coarfe en Trade,

Ahjtnte, the belt enpedient they c^iuld find.

from it, becaufe of its adhefion to all fides of
them, ba»e commonly fome of that matter ftill
adhering to them, or at leaft marks of its «inpiiiti from them, in all their fides.

Dryd.Fab.
You have given no dilTertation upon the abfeme of lovers, nor laid down any methods how

Might bve the fortune, if not cure the mind.

they diould fupport theinfelves under thofe fcparations.
j-lMiifon, Spe^atcr, t^° ztyi.

H'rtil'aHird'i Nal. Uift. p. 4-

ABRu'pTLY.a/f. [See Abrupt.] Haftily, without the

Want of appearance, in the legal fenfe.

2.

due forms of prepara-

firft is

The fvreetnefs of virtue's difpofition, jealous
nen over itfclf, fuffered her not to enter ahrufily

this is

Sidney, h.W.
into queftions of Mufidorus.
Novn miffing from their joy fo lately found,
So lately found, and fo abruptly gone.
Par. Regained, h, il.
They both of them punftually obfervcd the

monwealth, or in the fervice of the church.
The third kind the civilians call a probable abfence; as, that of Undents on the fcore of ftudy.

An abrupt manner, halle, fuddennefs,
ujitimely vehemence.

Not prefent:

1.

generally nfed of perfons in
lic view
debt, or criminals iluding the law.
The macrootte or mas alpinut, w'.iich ahfcindt all
for ia autumn, when
winter, liv-:" on its own Ut
;

very fa:; hit

in the fprlog-time, when it cumes forth again, very

Ray on the Creation.
n./. [£.-osa at/conJ.]

A'ssENCk. «./ [Sec Absent.]
I

1.

The

Complete; applied as well to perfons
perfedl, without any manner of defeft or maim ;
it cannot be but that the words oi his mouth ate

Mjtnt thee from felicity a while.

alfolute, and lack nothing which they fliouid

Beciule the things that proceed from him art

have,
performance of that thing whrreunto they
Hcokcr, i. ii. ^ 6.
tend.
What is his ftrength by land ?
—Great and increafing : but by fea
'
He is an aiflule miftcr.
Shakefpeare's Antony and Cleopatra,
for

2.

Southern's Spartan Dame,

important; and

if,

after

due fummons,

value of about a penny Engtith.
Addifon's Remarks on Italy,

Absent a'neous. aJj,
fence ; abfent.

Relating to ab-

Did.

Ausente'e. It./. He that is abfent from
his llation or

employment, or country.

A word ufed commonly with regard to
IriQimen living out of their country.

Unconditional ; as, an abfolute promife:
Although

it

runs in

forms alf'uie, yet it

ij

indeed conditional, as depending upon the qualification of the perfon to whom it is pronounced.

any

member ahfenis himfelf, he is to be fined to the
'

Hale's Origin of Mankind,

[ahfolutus, Lat.]

as things.

The ^engo it ftlll called together in cafes of

:

perfon that abfconds.

A'bsolute. ezif/,

To withdraw, to forbear to come into prefence.
If thoa didft ever hold me in thy heart,

From all I love, I Qiall contrive fome means.
Some friendly intervals, to vifit thee.

;

Absco'nder.

of twenty-four hours.

min that is abfcnt, becaufe he

Ml/ton I Paradife Loft, b.\x. I. 372.

Brown's y^Igar Errours, h. vi. e. it.

lean.

;

Milton's Paradije LoH, b. vii. /. 94.
Ahjolv'd,
If that which is fo fuppoled infinitely dillant
from what is now current, is d'ftant from us by
a finite interval, and not infinitely, then that on*
circulation wiiich preceded it, muft necelTarily be
like ours, and confcquently abjolved in the fpace

Tho' I am forc'd thus to a!>frnt myfelf

To ABSCCyND. -v.n. [ah/condo, Lat.] To
hide one's felf
to retire from the pub-

is

prefent objeft.

diftinguifh a

is

What caiife

And in this harfli world draw thy breath in pain.
Shakejpenre i Hamlet,
To tell my tale.
Co.— for thy ftay, not free, abfenis thee more.

confummate defolaiion.

it

Abfent in mind, inattentive ; regard-

thinks of fomething clfe, from him that is aijeni,
becaufe he thinks of nothing.
Mdifon, SpeHator, N° 77.

By cefTation of oracle;, with Montacutius, wc
may u.idcrfland this inteicilian, not ahfcij^m, or

up in iu hole,

MoT'd the Creator, in his holy reft
Through all eternity, fo late to build
and the work begun, how foon
In chaos

I

The (late of being cut off.

This ufe

Popc'tPafl.
Where there is advantage to be given.
Both more and lefs have given him the revolt
And none fervc with him but conftraincJ things,

To Abse'nt. v. a.

Lat.]

to complete.

not common.

lefs of the

Fabricius ab Aquipendente renders the abfcifdifficult enough, and not without
danger.
Hfifeman's Surgery.

it fhbU itfelf

Pope's Eloifa to Aitlari,

To finilh,

But Delia always abfentfrom her fight.
Nor plains at morn, nor groves at noon delight.

2.

Jim of them
X.

Ev'n fupcrftition lofes ev'ry fear ;
For God, not man, abfohes our frailties here.
4.

Stake/p. Macbeth.
Whether they were abfcnt or prefent, they were
vexed alike.
If^fJ. xi. 11.

The aft of cutting off.

.

clefiaftical fenfe.
But all is calm in this eternal fleep ;
Here grief forgets to groan, and love to weep ;

particle

Whofe hearts are abjent too.

Part of the diameter of a conic fedion, intercepted between the vertex and a femi -ordinate.

Laete.
.

To pronounce fin remitted, in the ec-

3.

:

ABSCrSSA. [Lat.]

\_abfc}JJio,

the

In fpring the fields, in autumn hills I love
At morn the plains, at noon the fhady grove

in a natural or figurative fenfe.

n.f.

ufed with

com-

neceffarily

prehend the perfons of our natural fathers, muft
mean a duty we owe them, diHinft from our obe'
dience to the magiflrate, and from which the
mjft abfolute power of princes cannot ahfolvt

y)-om.

If the patient is not relieved, nor dies in eight
days, the inflammation ends in a fimpuration and
an abjeeft in the lungs, and fometimes in fome
Arbuth. of Diet.
other part of the body.
Lindanus conjcfturcd it might He fome hidden
ebftefi in the mefenlery, which, breaking fome
few days after, was difcovered to be an apoftem of
Harvey
Confumptiom.
the mcfentery.

I .

IVatlers Maid's Tragedy,

This command, which muft

A'BSENT. fl^-. [a/5>/, Lat.]

»./. [ahfceffui, Lat.] A morbid cavity in the body ; a tumour filled
with matter ; a term of chirurgery.

Absci'ssion.

Compell'd by thrratJ to take that bloody oath.

And the aft ill, I am abfoh'd by both.

us.

His abjence from his mjther oft he'll mourn.
And, with his eyes, look wifhes to return.
Dryd. Juv. Sat. ii.

A'bscess.

w
To cut off, either

promife.

It is ufed with the particle/rom.

4.

cular intervals, have always their root, as the jewellers call it, whicl\ is only tlie airufrne/s, at ihc
end of the body whereby it adhered to the ftonc,

To Absci'nd. oi. a.

To fet free from an engagement or

2.

3. Inattention, heedleffnefs, negleft of the

roughncfs, cragginefs ; as of a fragment
violently disjoined.

or fides of the intervals; which ahruftne/i is
cauled by its being broke off from the faid ftone.
lymdiv. Nat, Hiji.f. 4.

Enjoy pad dangers, and abfilve the ftars. Tickell.
As he hopes, and gives out, by the influence of
his wealth, to be here abfil-ved ; in condemning
belying
tliis man, you have an opportunity of
that general fcandal, of rediiiir.lng the cr-dit loli
Stvift's Mifelltmej.
by former judgments.

as,

I continued my walk, rcfleSing on the I'ttle
abfences and diftradlions of mankind.
Addifon, SpeSiator, N° 77.

Shakrjp, Henry VIII.

Our vidlort, bleftin peace, forget their wars.

trade,

prefent objeft.

The cryftalliied bodies found in the perpendi-

Your great goodnefs, out of holy pity,
Abjulv'd him with an axe.

the law, in fome refpe^s, reputed as a perfon preAyl'tffc's Parergon Juris Canonici.
fcnt.

The ftate of an abrupt or broken thing

3.

;

merchandife, and the
Some add a fifth kind of abfence, which is
like.
committed cum dolo fif culpa, by a man's nonappearance on a citation ; as, in a contumacious
perfon, who, in hatred to his contumacy, is, by

on the account of

/>'<*•

dicial fenfe.

upon the account of the com-

as,

to leave off.

To clear, to acquit of a crime in a ju-

1.

A

And the fourth, an ai/<rnf« entirely voluntary

Abru'ptness. »./ [from airuft.]
I.

off,

To ABSCLVE. i). a. [ab/olvo, Lat.]

a neccflTary abfence, as in baniihed pcifons
fccond, neceflary
entirely neceffary.

tion.

time thus agreed upon, and that in whatever company or bufinefs they were engaged, they left it
atruplh, as foon as the clock warned them to
yiddijoit, Sfeflalor, tt" z^i.
retire.

Lat. wormwood.] Imbittercd, impregDUi,
nated with wormwood.
To Absi'st. nj. It. [aifi/o, L^t.] To Hand

The

MJence is of a fourfold kinji or fpccies.

and voluntary ;

,

Absi'nthi ATED. fart, [(rova ai/iiilhitim,

inclofcd in rtone, marble, or
fuch other fdid matter, being difficultly feparable

Thofe which are

fuch as had land in Ireland, to

all

return and refide tlie«upon.
S:r yobn Davies en Irelard*
are ownei by
f real part of ellaDes io Ireland
abfeniat, and fuch as draw over the profits raifed
out of Irrland, refunding notlung.

A

By calmuefs, or by abfence: all's in danger.

Abru'ption. »./[a^-«,v/(>,Lat.] Breaking ofF, violent and fudden reparation.

Then w»l the firft ftatute made agaioft ahfmttei,
commanding

S'Mth'i Sermmi,

3.

Not relative

as, abfolute fpace.
I
fee ftill the diftinQions of fovert'ign and inferior, of abhlute and relative worlhip, will bear
any man out in the worrtiip of any creature with
rcfpcfl to Cod, as well at leaft as ic doth in the
worlhip of images.
Rom, Idol,
HiiHingf. Def, of Dife.
An abfolute mode is that which belongs to ic«
fubjeil, without rcfpeft to any other biings what'.
;

m

locvet J

ftntr;

derived from the

mode is

jibjohithn, in the civil law, imports a full ac-

fKitts's Lsgici,

fome final fenience of law
a temporary difchargc of his farther atten
dance upon a mefne procefs, though a failure or
defeft in pleading j as it does likewifc in the canon
law, where, and among divines, it likcwife fignifies a relaxation of him from the obligation of
fome fentence pronounced either in a court of l.iw,
quittal of a perfon by

In this fenfe we fpeak of the ablative

Not limited ; as, ahfohite power.

My crown is ahj(^viey a^ holds of none;
I cannot in a bale fubjeftion live.
tho' I would give.

kind of law, one kind of ahjohuton, termed judicial, and another, ftyled a declaratory or extrajudicial abjotution^

the

conirad^^ions which

God.

grow in thofe

Sidney,

What merit they can build upon having joined
with a proteliant army, under a king they acknowledge, to defend their own liberties and pro!»,

to

1 believe, will

me, ahJrJvtety inconceivable ; and,
equally be fo i^r ever.

in

a ftate uncon-

Even then the doubtful b;ilows fcarce abfiain
From the tofs'd vcflel on the troubled main.
Drydens Vtrgil.

Abfurd, contrary to reaibn.

ing.]

not

is

much

doubted whether

it

and

it

j

Whether the colder nymph that rules the flood,

a. \ahforbeo, Lat. preter.
abjorbed; part. pret. abjorbed, or ab.

Extinguiflies, and balks the drunken god

forpt.]
I .

:

Or that Mclampus (fo have fome alfur'd)
When the maJ Pi.-etides with charms he cur'd,
And pow'rful lierba, both charms and fimples call

To fwallow up.

Sermonu

tion of that earth, which made it obnoxious to be
abftrpt in water.
Burn. Tbeory.

Abste'miously. adv. [from abjlemious.^

But, once puli(!.i'd, did jbfclurely reign :
Thus, with their Arnazons, the heroes drove.
And coiT^uer'd fiill thofe beauties they would gain.

Drydm'i jliiTtut M:rabilii.
4. Without condition.

And of that nature, for the mnft part, are
things abfilutely anto all men's filvation neccffary,
either to be held or denied, either to be done 01
Jlccier'i Preface.

Peremptorily; pofitively.
Being as I am, why didll not thoa

Command me abj^lutrly not to go,
Going into fuch danger, as thou fiidft }
Farad. X-c^, h. Ix.

A'bsoluteness. n.f.\^\om.abfjMt.'\
Completenefs.
Freedom from dep£ndance, or limits.
The abjotuttneji and illimitednefs of his comirJlTiun was generally much fpoken of.
Clarendon, b. viii.

3. Defpoticifm.
He kept a ftrait hand on his nobility, and chofe
rather to ailvance clergymen and lawyers, which
were more obfcquinus to him, but had lefs inti.-eft

which made for his abjotuieneft, but
Bacon'i Henry VII

not for his fafety.

They dref? up ^ower with all the fplendor and
temptation abfilutrr-js can add to it.
Lo it.
Absolu'tion. «./ [ai/hlulie, Lat.]

Drydens Fables.

Temperately, foberly, without indul-

Some tokens fliew

gence.

Of fearlefs friendftirp, and their finking mates
Sullain ; vain love, tho" laudable, al.j'.rft

By a fierce eddy, they together found
The vaft profundity.
Pbillift.
z. To fuck up.
See Absorbfnt.
The evils that come of rxercife are that it doth
abforb and attenuate the moillurc of the body.

Bacon.
Suppofing theforementinnedconfumption fliould
prove fo durable, as to abforb and extenuate the
faid fanguine parts to an extreme degree, it ii
evident, that the fundamental parts mu^ necclfariiy come into danger.
Hanvey on Confum/nhni.
While we perfpire, we abforb the outward air.
Arbuthnot.

Abso'rbent. »./. \abforbem, Lat.]

A

medicine that, by the foftnefs or
porofity of its parts, either cafes the
afperities of pungent humours, or dries

away fupcrfluous moillure in the body.

man to that

generous abfo'utinejt of condition, as neither to
ctingc, to fawn, or to depend meinly ; but that
wbich gives hiin that happinefs within himfelf, for
which men depend upon othersi
Seulb'i Serm.

in the people ;

To Abso'rb. f

Into the fober fpring, where itill their virtues laft.

Without limits or dependance.
The prnvc long time bad courted fortune's love,

raife a

Clanx'iile't Scepjis Siientijtea, c- 4.

Mofes imputed the deluge to the difiuption of
the abyfs ; and St. Peter to the particular conltitu-

•heir various modiiicationa and pofitions.

There is nothing that can

Abftinencc in extremity will prove
mortal dileafe; but the experiments of it ate
very rare.
Arbuthnot on Aliments.
Clytorean ftreams the love of wine expel,
(Such is the virtue of th' abfierr.hu^ wk-W)
the abfiemious.

a

to

without, according

avoided.

;

fhould be followed

moft abjorous to our reafon.

Ecntley^i

;

by to or_/rj«.

Sfrofs Sermoai.

ol.jefts

ing from excels or pleafur^s. It is ufed
of perfons
as, an abjitmious hermit:
and of thiivgs
as, an abjiemhus diet.
It is fpoken likewife of things that caufc
temperance.
The inllances of longevity are chiefly amongft

may be

agiinft the titlicr.

our nervcv from

1.

ufe,

To fuppofe an uniter of a middle conltitution,
that Ihculd partake of fome of the qualities ot
both, is unwarranted by any of our faculties yea,

tlor, which ariic from the different motions, upon

2.

in

Lat.]

Temperate, fober, abftinent, refrain-

It

th^mtelvc, or relatively fo to usj it
is theieforeg'vd to bezealoully aSe^ed for the one

to our eyes and ears, and other orgini of fenle.
Thefe qualities are only the efiedls of our fenfa-

.

ABSTE'MIOUS. adj. {abjiemius,

f,i>T . adj . [SeeAssoNOus.] Con-

No fenfible quality, as light, and colour, and

5.

A\!\^e'i Ptrergon.

'Taylor s Rule of Iwing bolyt

trary to reafon, wide from the purpofe.

fblu'ely fo in

any thing, fo that a man cannot abftam

Though an abfoiiit'.ry fentence (hould be pronounced in favour of the perlons, upon the account of nearnefs of blood ; yet, if adultery fliall
afterwards be truly proved, he may be ajain pro-

Lat.],

A'bsbnous. adj. [ai/oims, Lzt. ill-found-

Alj'Auuly we cannot difcommend, we cannot
abjr)iutely approve either willingnefs to live, or forwardncfs to die,
hooker, b, v.
Thefe then being the perpetual caufes of leal ;
the grejtcft good, or th-: grcateft evil; cither o^-

heat, and found, can be lublilrent in the bodies
themfelves, uhjolutely coadticred, wirhouta relation

firous of

That which abfolves.

^ nQfi

neded.

3.

[ab/olutorius ,

from it, is to lofe a man's liberty, and to become
a fervant of meat and drink, or fmoke.

eie/J.

ceeded againll as an adulterer.

Vrijh. Plea.

Sic'iji's

z. Without relation ;

Miilon's Paradife Loft, b. I. /. 993.

To be perpetually lonjing, and impatiently dc-

Soutb't Sermons.

A'bsolutory.

mind-:, that neither cbfoiutely climb the roclc oi
Ttrtue, nor freely Gnlc into the fea of vanity.

perties,

If thou judge it hard and difficult,
Converfing, looking, loving, to abflain
Friminvc's due rites, nuptial embraces fweet;
And, with defires, to languiih without hope.

to give the perfnn, fo abfolved, confidence towards

Completely, without reftriftion.
All

cation ; with the particle_/ro/».

The remiflion of fins, or penance, de-

The abjalutkji pronounced by a prieit, whether
papiftor proicftant, is nota certain infallible ground

A'bsolutei.y. aJ'v. [from abfoluteJ]
1.

To ABSTA'IN. t;. r. [abjiineo, Lat.] To
forbear, to deny one's felf any gratifi-

clared by ecclefiaftical authority.

Shakeflieare^i Cymbefwe.

"^^^

&&. of fwallowing up.
It. was belowtlie dignity of thofe facred penmen,
or the Spirit of God that direQed them, to fliew
us the caufes of this difruption, or of this abfrption J this is left to the enquiries of men.
Burnet's Theory of the Earth.

Ayliffe'i Parergon Jur'n Canor.ici.

2.

:

'Twas very Cl<iten,

Abso'rption. )',yi [from fl^''"'^-]

Thus there is, in this

or eife \nforo paemteniiol'i.

Dryd, Ud. Emp.
5. Pofitive ; certain ; without any hefitation.
In this fenfe it rarely occurs.
Long is it fince I faw him,
But time hath nothing blurr'd thofc lines of favour,
Which then he w.:re; the fnatches in his voice.
And burtl of fpcaking, were as his I'm ahfoiute,

;

alfo,

cafe ahfoiute in grammar.

Nor fuffcr you to take,

thoughts, as far as he can, from all thi preftnt
wjild, its cuftoms and its manners, to be fully
Pope's Letters,
poffiilVed and abforft in the part.

Acquittal.

1.

regird that one being has to othert.

4.

A B 9

A B S

A B S
but > relative

There is a third dafs of fubftances, commonly
called abforbentt ; as, the various kinds ai (hell-,
coral, chalk, crabi eyes, feft. which likewife laUc
an etftrvefccnce with aclds,and are therefore called
alkalis,

though not

fo properly, for they are not

Abste'miousness. n. f. [See Abstemious.]

The quality of being ablle-

mioi^.^

Abste'ntion. n.f. [fromab/fitteo, Lat.]
The ad of holding off, or reftraining ;
rellraint.

To

Z>;V?,

ABSTE'RGE. 'V. a.
To cleanfe by wiping

[abjlergo,
;

to

Lat.]

wipe.

Abste'rcient. adj. Cleanfing; having
a cleanfing quality.

To Abste'rse.

[See Absterg-e.] To
word very little

cleanfe, to purify ; a

in ufe, and lefs analogical than abjierge.

Nor will \vc affirm, that iron receivcth, in ths
ftomach of the oftrich, no alteration j but we fufpeit tills effeil rather from corrofion than digeA
tion J not any tendence to chilification by the natural heat, but rather fome attrition from an acid
and" vitriolous humidity in the ftomach, which
may abflerfe and ihavc the fcorious parts thereof.
Br'jtvns Vulgar Errours, b. iii.

Abste'rsion. 11. j'. [abjlerjio, Lat.] The
aft of cleanfing.

See Absterge.

Arbuthnot on Altmenti.

Ahjlerfian is plainly a fcouring off, or incifion of

Abso'rpt. /«»-/. [{rom ab/orb.] Swallow-

the more vifcous humours, and making the humours more fluid, and cutting between them and

f-ilts.

ed up ; ufed as well, in a figurative
fenfe, of perfons, as, in the primitive,
of things.
W^iiat can you cxpe£l from a man, who has not
talked thefe five days? wb» is withdrawiog his

the part; as is found in nitrous water, whicb'
fcoureth linen cloth fpcedily from the foulnefs.
Baccn's Natural Hifiory, N" 42,

Abstb'rsive. a<^'. [_(tQm abjltr^«.'\ That

C 2

hu

Mathismatics, in its latitude, li ufualty divided
And though the pure do
Into pure and mixed.
handle only abfiraB quantity in general, as geometry, arithmetic j yet that which is mixed, doth
confider the quantity of fome particular determiSo allionomy handles the qumtity
nate fubjefl.

has the quality of abllerging or cleanfing.
It is good, aftfr purging, to uTe apozrmes ana
brothi, not (o much opening as thofe ufed before

purging i but atfierfivt and mundiTving clyfttrs
alfo are good to conclude wkh, Co draw awajr the
reliquct of the humuuri>
Bacon's Natural Hifttry.
tablet fttwd of that ahftirfi-ve tree.
fwarthy
bird did build to ned.
Where /Ethiopi'

of heavenly motions, mulic of founds, and mechanics of weights and puArrs.
tVilkxnii Malttmatical Magick.
jlbjirali terms fignify the mode or quality of

A

a being, without any regard

Sir Jihn Dinbam,

which

There, many a flow'r ahjitrftyt grew.

it

is

;

fubjc^l

in

Becaufe the ahjlinttice frcm a prefcnt pleafurc,
that offers itfelf, is a pain, nay, otti-ntimcs a ver)
great one : it is no wonder that that operates after
the fame manner pain does, and lefl'cns, in our
thoughts, what is future ; and fo forces us, as it
Locke.
were, blindfold into its embraces.

that each man will purfue his thoughts in that

Fading, or forbearance of nec«nary
It is generally diftinguifhed from
temperance, as the greater degree from
fometimes as fingle performthe lefj
ances from habits ; as, a day of aifiinrnct, and a Life of temperance.
Say, can you fall ? your llomadu are too young
And abfi'mcnce ingenders maladifel.
Shakefpeare's Lovis Labour Lop.
And the faces of tiiem, which have ufed ahJlirnce, Ihall &ine above the ftars j whereas our
Ijces ihall be blacker than darkncfs.
1 EfJras, v'li. 55.
Religious men, who hither mull be fent
A^ awful guides of heavenly government
To teach you penance, falls, and abJi'mtMtf

2. An epitome made by taking out the

2. Difficult ;

and eajy.
S'jfpakeour Sire, and by his countenance feem'd
Ent'ring on lludious thoughts abfiruje.
Paradtfe Lofi, b. viii.
The motions and figures within the mouth are
cafy
to
be
didinguiflied,
efpecially
abfirufc, and not
thofe of the tongue, which is moved through the
help of many mufcles, fo eafily, and habitually,
and varioully, that we arc fcarce able to give a
judgment of motions and figures thereby framed.
Holder.
No man could give a rule of the greatell beauties, and the knowledge of them w.^s fa abfiruje,
that there was no manner of fpeaking which could
'
Dryden'i Dufnfnoy.
exprefs them.

IVattCs Imp. of the Mind.

The hearts of great princes, if they be confidcred, as it were in abfiraB, without the neccffity of dates, and circun3(lanc« of time, can
take no full and proportional pleafure in the exercife of any narrow bounty.

H^otton.

lofe much of their virtue and energy.

1.

Separated; disjoined.

Hammond^ I Fundam.

That fpace the evil one abfiroBcd ftood
From his own evil, and for the time remain'd

A'bstinenT. at//. \_abJHnens, Lat.] That
It is ufed

Abftrufe ;

.

3.

•

DiS.

lence.

Donne.

Te ABSTRA'CT. v. a. [abjlraho, Lat.]

To take one thing from another.
Could we abfiraB from thcfc pernicious efftfts,
and fuppofc this were innocent, it would be too
light to be matter of praile.
Dtcay of Ficty.

Having dephlegmed fpirit of fait, and gently abfrarlcd the whole fpirit, there remaincth in the
Soyii.

With

abftrac-

fimply, feparately from all contingent circumftances.
Or whether more ohfiraBedly we look.
Or on the writers, or the written book
Whence, but from heav'n, could men unlkill'd in

Locke.

To reduce to an epitome.

.Abstru'sity. >t./. [from abjlru/e.']

arts.

Weave fuch agreeing truths ? or how, or why

1.

Should all confpire to cheat us with a lie ?
Unaik'd their paios, ungrateful their advice.
Starving tiwir gain, and martyrdom their price.
DtytUns Religio Laid.

2.

compaie, and
ahjirafi, would hardly be able to undcrlland and
make ufe of language, or judge or reafon to any

The word alfiraBitn lignifies a withdrawing
fome part of an idea from other parts of it ; by
which means fuch abftraOed ideas are formed,

often.

as

H-'aitt'tlmp.ofibcMind.

Separated from fomething elfe ; gene-

z.

rally ufed with relation to mental per

5.

ceptions ; as, abJiraH mathematics, ab-

firaH terms, in oppofition to concrete.

7e Ab su' M E I", a. [abfumo, Lat. J To bring
to an end by a gradual walte ; to eat up.
.

An uncommon word.

neither reprefent any thing corporeal or fpiritual ; that is, any thing peculiar or proper to
fKo.-rj'j Logick.
mind or body.

See

That which had been burning an infinite time
could never be burnt, no not (a much as any part
of it ; for if it had burned part after part, the
whole mull needs be ab/umed in a portion of time.

The ftate of being abftrafted.

Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Abfence of mind ; inattention.
+1 Difregard of worldly objefts.

ABSU'RD. adj. [ab/urdus, Lat.]
I.

4 hecmit wiiltet to be praifed for his ahfiraBion.
Vopt't Lctttn.

That which is abftrufe. A word feldom

fwallowed, who pretend to write of fecrets, to deliver antipathies, fympathies, and the occult ab..
Brvivn'' i Vulgar Errotin.
finijitici of things.

.

wc Mfould fix in the memory the difcourfcs
we hear, or what we defign to fpcak, let us abfirad them into brief comprnds, and review them

Abftrufenefs.
ufed.
Authors are alfo fufpicious, nor greedily to be

Abstr a'ction. »._/! [abfiraSio, Lat.]
The aft of abftrafting.
1

If

A'bstract. adj. [abjlraaus. Lit.
the verb To Abstract.] _

to find fault with <hc dyle of
the fcripture, than to do fo with the author for
Boyle on the Scripture*
making us but men.

upon fuch a fcorc,

In fevcral ages born, in fi!veral parts.

dillinguifli,

tolerab't degree.

It is not oftentimes fo much what the fcripture

fays, as

tion,

3. To feparate ideas.

difficulty,

what fome men perfuade others it fays,
that makes it feem obfcutv, and that as to fome
other palTages that are fo indeed, ftnce it is the
aifirufenejs of what is taught in them, that makes
them almoft inevitably fo ; it is little lefs faucy,

objefts ; as, an ahjiraaed fcholar.

Abstra'ctedly. ad'v.

of being abftrufe ;

obfcurity.

:

To feparate by didillation.
retort a ftyptical fubftance.

quality

difficult.

Abfent of mind, inattentive to prefent

4.

not plainly, or obvi-

Abstru'se NESS. n.f. [from abfiru/e.'] Th«

AbfiraBcd fpiritva) love, they like

Their fouls exhal'd.

Absto'rt E D adj. \abJ{ortus,'L^X..'\ Forced
away, wrung from another by vio-

ner ; obfcurely,
oufly.

Refined, purified.

2.

chiefly of perfons.

Abstru'sely. adv. In an abllrufe man-

Milton,

Stupidly good.

ufes abftinence, in oppofition to covet-

remote from conception or
It is oppofed to obvious

apprehenfion.

The ftate of being abftrafted, or dif-

.^BSTR a'xted. part. adj. [itomabjiracl.^

I.

Rebellion riling.
Milton'i ParadifeLtfi, h.y, I. 71a.

joined.

Were our rewards for the ahfiinencin, or riots,

4.

Nightly before him, faw, without their light.

fo that he could give a tolerable analyfis and abfiraB of every tteatife he had read, juft after he

of this prefent life, under the prejudices of Ihort
or fioite, the promifcs and threats of Chrifl would

Hidden.
Th' eternal eye, whofe fight difcerns

principal parts.
When Miiemon came to the end of a chapter,
he recollefled the fentiments he had remarked j

had finiflied it.

Z);<3.

Lat. thruit

Abfirufefi thoughts, from forth his holy mount,
And from within the golden lamps that burn

You're then the things, and abfiraB of them all.
Drydcn'i Aur.

3.

\abjirufus,

out of fight.]
1.

Shakefpearc' t Antony and Cleopatra.
If you are falfe, thefe epithets are fmall

Drydms Indian Emf.
A'bstinency. n./. The fame with AbITIN'ENCE.

Thofe who cannot

To thruft off, or pull away.
Abstru'se. adj.

of all faults all men follow.

la punifli bodies for the foul's ollence.

2.

To ABSTRU'DE. -v. a. [abjirudo, Lat.]

tue or power of a greater.
You (hall there find a man, who is the abftraH

;

Licke*

mijjht render difficult.

Abstri'cted. part. adj. [abftri3ut, Lat.]
Dia^
Unbound.
To Abstri'nce. v. a. Tounbind. Di3.

A fmaller quantity, containing the vir-

I.

which edablilhcd

prejudice, or the abfiraBnefi of the ideas themfelves,

fruit

method, which will be mod agreeable to the nature of the thing, and to his apprehcnlion of what
Locke.
it fuggells to him.
A'bsthact. n./ [from the verb.]

food.

have taken fome pains to make plain and fa-

miliar to your thoughts, truths,

from the confidering things in
themfelves, ahjlraft from our opinions, and other
men's notions and difcourfcs on them, will be,

Another

particle _/r6«i.

1.

I

fyam'iLogick.

Forbearance of any thing; with the

ous, rapacious, or luxurious.

Subtilty ; feparation from all matter or

common notion.

With the particle//»»f.

z.

Bentley's Sermon*

expired.

Abstr a'ctness. n. /. [from ab/fraff.^

length,

as, whitcnei's, roundnefs,

Thy fav'rite flow'rs of yellow hue. S%vifi't MifccU

2.

to the

AB$TRA'cT«VE.a<^'.[fromfl/5/frfl(7.]Haring the power or quality of abftrafting.
Abstra'ctly. adv. [from ab/lraS.] In
an abllraft manner, abfolutely, without
reference to any thing elfe.
MitKr abfiraBly and abfolutely confidered, cannot have born aa infinite durition now pail and

breadth, wifdom, mortality, life, death.

A'bstinence. «./ [abfiinentia, Lat.]
1.

A B S

A B S

A B S

,

Unreafonable ; without judgment, at
ufed of men.
Scetuing

ABU

ABU

Seeming wife men may make fliift to get apj.
»ion but let no man chuie them for employment;
for certainly ^ou had better take forbuCnefi a man
fomewhat ehjfurj, than over formal.
Bacon,
A man, who cannot write with wit on a proper
_

i

Paradiji Laji, b.

by in, commonly by tvitJb.
The world began but fome ages before thefe were

nance of man's life, is an unthankful abufe of the
fruits of God's good providence towards mankind.

found out, and was abundant -with all things
at
firft
and men not ver)- numerous ; and therefore
;
were not put fo much to the ufe of their wits,
to
find out wain for living commodioufly.
Burmt.

Little knows
Any, but God alone, to value right

It

is

times to perfons.

The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious,

1 .

How clear foever this idea of the infinity of
number
the

2.

is

of the

That which
were full of abfurditits.

In which fenfe

it has a plural.

thority, is abundantly fupplied in the
imaginations

of friendfliip, and the repeated
conftant converfation.

In abu/e, the verb, / has the found of
X ; in 'the noun, the common found.
To make an ill ufe of.
They that ufe this world, as not abufng it; for

1

_,

1.

Crajhaw.

So glad Egyptians fee their Nilus rife.

j

Drjd. Aniu Mir.

Great numbers.
The river Inn is fliut up between mountains,
covered with woods of fir-trees.
Abundance of
peafants are employed in hewing down the largcft
of thefe tree*, that, after they arc barked and cut

J.

A great quantity.

Add'ijun on Italy.

Their chief entcrprize was the recovery of the
Holy Land ; in which worthy, but extremely difficult, ailion,

lamentable to remember what
abundance of noble blood hath been flied, with very
fmall benefit unto the.Chri(lian ftate.
it

IS

Sir IValiir Raleigb'i £j/ayi.

4.

Exuberance, more than enough.
For w.ll I wot, moi» mighty fovereign.

Of fome, th' abundance ri an idle brain.
Will judged be, and painted forgery.

Aiv'uDKHT.adJ. {abundant JLiX.1

To violate

3.

Denham't Sofhlf*-

3.

He that reproaches with rudenefs.

4.

-A. ravifher,

Praftifmg abufe.
The tongue mov'd gently firft^nd fpeech was low^

1

Till wrangling fcicnce taught it noife and (how.

And wicked wit arofe, thy moft ahufive foe.
Pope's Mifullaniu^

Dame Nature, as the learned (liow.
Provides each animal its- foe

Hounds hunt the hare, the wily, fox
Devours your geefe, the wolf your flbcks.

Thus envy pleads a natural claim.

To prrfecute the mufe's fame.
On poets in all times abuji've.

Spenjer.

Waken'd the magilhates coercive power. Rofcom.
3. Deceitful; a fenfe little ufed, yet not
improper.
It is verified by a number of examples,
that
whatfoever

:

but the means hitherto propounded,
are,
in the pradlicc, full of error.
poflible ;

Bacon's Natural Hiftory, N" ji6.
imports the mifreprefentation of the qualities

of things and aflions, to the common apprehenfions of men, abufing their minds with
falfe notions ; and fo, by this artifice, making
evil pafi
for good, and good for evil, in all
the^reat concerns
Sermons.

s
ii"'K-l. all
„ thefe
L, tempting words abus'd;
Nor be with
Thefe tempting words were all to Sappho us'd.

is gained

by an abujive treaty, ought

to be rcfVired in 'integrum.

Bacon's Conjidc'ralicns on H'ar with Spain,

Abu'sivsly. ad-v. [from abuje.]
1.

Improperly, by a wrong ufe.
The oil, ahuf-vely called ipirit, of rofes, fwlms at
the top of the water, in the firm of a white butter;
wh'ch 1 remember not to haveobfcrved in any other
oil drawn in any limbeck. Boyle's Sceptical
Ciym'i/k.

2.

Reproachfully.

Abo'siveness. «./. [from abu/e.]
quality of being abufive ;

;

to reproach.

am no ftrumpel, but of life as honed

As you that thus abuje me.

From Homer down to Popeindufive. Stvi/t'sMifccL
Containing abufe; a«, an abn^-ve lampoon.
Next, Comedy appcar'd with great applaufe,
Till her licentious and abufive tongue

He perhaps.

South-

a violater.

Abu'sive, ad/', [hoai abu/e.]

2.

Out of my weaknefs and my melancholy.
As he is very potent with fuch fpirits,
Abujes me to damn me.
Shakefpeare's Hamlet.
The world hath been much abufed by the opinion
of making gold
the work itfelf I judge to be

It

He that deceives.
Next thou, the abufer of thy prince's ear.

Rogers', Sermons.

Her through the fea did bear.
To deceive ; to impofe upon.

I

Sfenfer.

2.

to defile.

;

4. To treat with rudenefs

That all thii fan.ous antique hiftory.

Samfon Agoniflciw

Cor, vii. 31,

Arachnc figured how Jove did abuji
Europa like a bull, and on his back

And, in hii plenty, their abundance find.

into (hapr, are tumbled down.

I

.

panion to be abujed.
2.

The doubled charge his fubjefts' love fupplies.
Who, in that bounty, to themfelves are kind

i.

,

com-

Abu'se R, »./. [from the verb «^«/f,];
1. He that makes an ill ufe.

com-

Plenty ; a fenfe chiefly poetical.
At the whifper of thy word,

Crown'd abundance fpreads my board.

rude reproach,

I dark in light, expos'd

repentance, beyond which he will no longer
await
the perverfenefs of men, no longer fufter his

Sec Absurditv ;
[aiondance, Fr.]

Unjuft cenfure,
tumely.

To daily fraud,, contempt, abufe, and wrong.

He has fixed and determined the time for our

injudiciouf-

which is more frequently ufed.

Abu'ndance. n.f.

4.

the fafliion of this world paffeth away.

Absu'udwess. n.f. [hom ah/urd.] The
nefs ; impropriety.

influences of a
Rogers', Serm.

To ABU'SE, 'V. a. [abutor, abufui, Lat.]

B'niity't Scrmcni.

quality of being abfurd ;

Seducement.

Was it not enough forhim-to have deceived me»^
and, through the deceit abufed me, and, after the
abufe, forfaken me, but that he muft now, of all
the company, and before all the company, lay
want of beauty to my charge.
Sidney, b. ii.

.

fonably.
But man we find the only creature,

duced from it.

Stuiftfor Advancement of Relig'um^

3.

•

After

Ji/urdly bends his whole defigns. Sicift't Afifttl.
We may proceed yet further with the atheill,
and convince him, that not only his principle is
abfurd, but his confequences alfo as abfurdly de-

A corirupt pradtice, bad cuftom.

The natune of things is fuch, that, if abufes be
not remedied, they will certainly encreafe.

Amply, liberally, more than fufficiently.
sprat.
XI
Heroic
poetry has ever been efteemed thegreatelt
work of human nature. In that rank has Ariftotle
placed it; and Longinus is fo full of the like
exprcfTions, that he abundantly confirms
the other's
teftimony.
Drydcns State 0/ Innocence, Pref.
What the example of our equals wants of au-

^

Paradife Loft, b. iy*

2.

Ye faw the French tongue abundantly purified.

an abfurd manner ; improperly ; unrea-

Who, led by folly, combats nature
Who, when (he loudly cries. Forbear,
With obftinacy fires there
And where his genius leaft inclines,

"The good before him, but perverts belt things

To worft abufe, or to their meaneft ufe.

Paradife Lafl, b.vm.

2.

That fatisfadtion we receive from the opinion of
fome pre-eminence in ourfelves, when we fee the
atfurdiiiis of another, or when we reflea on any
part <ii/Br</m« of our own.
Addihtj.

Absu'rdly. adv. [from ai/urd."]

In plenty.
Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving
creature that hath life.
Genrfs, i. 20.
God on thee
Abundantly his gifts hath alfo pour'd
Inward and outward both, his image fair.

nothing more evident than
afluaj idea of an infinite
io^^,
is abfurd; as, his travels

be, there

ahfurdliy

number.

Hooker, b. v. § ^*

applied generally to things, fome-

is

Absu RDiTT. n./. [from ah/urd].
long-fuffering and abundant in goodnefs and truth.
1, The quality of being abfurd ; want of
Exod. xxxiv. 6.
judgment, applied to men; want of Abu'ndaktly. ay-i;. [iiom abundant.]
propriety, applied to things.

Addjfoit.

followed fometimes

Fully ftored.

4. It

m Man.

mention Mr. BickerftafF,

and abufe.

Abu'se. «.'/. [from the verbal//?.]
1
The ill ufe of any thing.
The calling away things proHtable for the fufte-

3.

Saatb's Sermtni.

Pofe't Effay

tate

Arbutbnitt an Aliments.

accordingly he could not but like and defire it •
but then, it was after a very irrational ai/urd way,
and contrary to all the methods and principles of
a rational agent; which ne%er wills a thing really
and properly, but it applies to the means, by which

to

whom the author every where endeavours to imi-

fions their rupture, and haemorrhages
; efpecially
in the lungs, where the blood is abundant.

The thing itlelf appeared defirable to him, and

^

The next criticifm feems to be introduced for
no other reafon, but

If the veffels are in a ftate of too great
rigidity,
fu as not to yield, a ftrong projcaile
motion occa-

fentiments or pradices.

But grant that thofe can conquer, thefc can cheat,
'Tis phrafe ahjuri to call a villain great
Who wickedly is wife, or madly brave.
Is but the more a fool, the more a knave.

Pope's EJfmy on Criticifm^

v.

Exuberant.

2.

Mdijin, Spiaater, N° zgu
Inconfiftent, contrary to reafon, ufed of

be acquired.

But always think the laft opinion right.
A mufe by thefe is like a mirtrefs us'd.
This hour /he's idolii'd, the next abus'd.

The author not impair'd, but honour'd more.

furd.

it is to

Some praife at morning what they blame atnighl^

Good, the more
Communicated, more abundant grows

fubjeft, is dull and ftupid ; but one, who {hews it
in an improper place, is as irnpeitinent and ai-

2.

ABU

Plentiful.

I.

Shakefp. Othello.

But he mocked them, and lauglied at them,
and <ii»/<i them Ihamcfully, and fpake proudly.
] Mac, vii. 34.

Th*

fbulnefs

of

language.
Pick out of mirth, like ftonescatof thy ground,.
Profancncfs, filthinefs, abufivenefs.

Thefe are the fcum,with which coarfe wi ts abound t

The fine may fpare thefe well, yet not go Icfs.
HirUrt.

f» ABUT. V. n. obfelete.[fl^fl»//V,to touch
at the end, Fr.]

trne afada ;

To end at, to border

upon ; to meet, or approach to, with the

Acade'mi Ai.. a<^. \ixom academy.

Two mighty monarcliies,
Shakcjptare I lltnry V.
The Lo(>«i are two fcveral corporations, diOingoilhed by the addition or eaft and weft, aiuiiing
u'fM a navigable creek, and joined by a fair bridge

many arches.

Cttrnv.

Abu'tment.w./ [fr«ma^K/.] That which

member of an univerfity.
Athetitr
fcaft

A

My good ftars, that were my former guides.
Have empty left their orbs, and fliot their fires
Into the ahyfm of he!l.

is

I .

Oibji/n't Camden,

ACACJA.n,;, [Lat.]

A drug brought from Egypt, which,
being fuppofed the infpiflated juice of a
is imitated by the juice of floes,

tree,

boiled to the fame confiftence.
Diiiionaire de Comm, Sazrary. Trevoux.

A tree commonly fo called here, though
different from that

many the like, have taken up the thoughts and
times of men in difpules concerning them.
HaU^s Origin of MankineU
3.

of Corinth.
3.

4.

Dryden'i Dufrefiuy.

An univerfity.

To ACCE'ND. -v. a. [acceudo, Lat.] 'I'o
kindle, to fet on fire ; a word very

A place of education, in contradiftinc-

rarely ufed.

Our devotion, if fuHiciently acetnded, would, as

tion to the univerfities or public fchools.

The thing, and

therefore the

which produces toe

The att of haftening.
Confidcring the languor enfuing that a^ion in
fome, and the vifible acceleration it maketh of age
in moft, we cannot but think venery much abridgeth our days.
Broivn,

Amongft the acadimiei, which were compofed by
the rare genius of thofe great men, thcfe four are
reckoned as the principal ; namely, the Athenian
fchool, that of Sicyon, that of Rhodes, and that

theirs,

name, is

modern.

burn up innumerable books of this fort.
Decay of Piety.

Acce'nsion. n.f [acccttfo, Lat.] The
ACANTHUS, n.f [Lat.] The name of aft of kindling,
or the ftate of being,
herb bears-breech, remarkable for
being the model of the foliage on the

,the

Being initials in the names of places, as j^San,
fignify an oak, from the Saxon ac, an uak.

X.

tatien of the air, the exiftence or non-exiltence of

and contemplative in living arts.

The place where (ciences are taught.

The fiate of the body accelerated, or
quickened in its motion.
The dejirees o( acceleraiisn oi motion, the gravi-.
empty fpaces, either coacervate or interfperfed, and

Stakefpcare^i Lct/r'j Labour Loft.

z.

We

I.

of the fpaces.
2.

Our cou:'C fhall be a little academy.
Still

The aft of quickening motion.
The law o{ the acceleration of falling bodies, difcovered firil by Galileo, is, that the velocities acquired by falling, being as the time in which the
body falls, the fpaces through which it palTes will
be as the fquares of the velocities, and the velocity
and time taken together, as in a quadruplicate rati>)

perly, with the accent on the firft fyllable, now frequently on the fecond.

centre of the earth.

Ac, Ak, or Ake.

1.

A'CADEMY. n. f. [anciently, and proAcadimia, Lat. from Academus of Athens,
whofe houie was turned into a fchool,
from whom the Groves of Academe in
Milton.]
An alTembly or fociety of men, uniting
for the promotion of fome art.

iVatts,

AccEl. ER a'tion. n.f [acceleralio, Lat.]

Ray on the Creation.

The body of waters fuppofed at the

5. In the language of divines, hell.
From that infatiable ahyjs.
Where flames devour, and ferpcnts hifa,
Promote me to thy feat of blifs.
Rijcimmtn.

which few eife knew, inclined to the
Bacon's Henry Vll.
Perhaps it may point out to a ftudenc now and
then, what may employ the moft vifcful labours of
his thoughts, and accelerate his diligence in the moft
accelerating a battle.

-

momentous enquiries.

obferved by the Parifian acadcmtfti, that
fome amphibious quadrupeds, particularly the feacalf or feal, hath his epiglottis extraordinarily large.

thing is loft.

to be the fea, or fubterraneous waters hid in the
bowels of the earth.
Burmt't thimy.

tinual vigilarcy did fuck in fometimes caufelefs

fufpicions,

often uied.
It

generally applied to matter, and

ufed chiefly in philofophical language ;
but it is fometimes ufed on other occafions.
In which council the king himfelf, whofe con-

"}

Dryiieni l^ir^ Gtorg, i.

are here to confider what is generally underftood by the great atyft, in the common explication
«f the deluge; and 'tis commonly interpreted either

tbomf. Sum. I, 1 690.
2. It is

The
Aca'demist. n.f. [from academy.
member of an academy. This is not

3. In a figurative fenfe, that in which any

4.

The rufhing comet to the fun defcends.

Dunciad,h.\v. !. 481

The yawning earth difclos*d th* tf/»>yi of hell.

for fepulchres themfelves muft crumbling fall
^
In Umc^saby/tj the common grave of all.
Drydens jfwvenalj Sal, x.
If, difcovering how far we have clear and diftindt
ideas, we confine our thoughts within the contemplation of thofe things that are within the reach of
our underllandings, and lavmch not out into that
thyji of darknefs, out of a prcfumption that nothi'ig is beyond our comprehenfion.
Locke.

I

Or wanders wild in academic groves.

To give it the firft pulh, and fee it roll
Mdijcn, Guard. No no.

Arbutknot on Aliments*
and fevers.
Lo from the dread immenfity of fpace
Returning, with accelerated courfe.

lating to an univerfity.
While through poetic Icenes the genius roves.

DryJcn.
Tore was not more pleased
With infant nature, when his fpacious hand
Had rounded this huge ball of earth and feas

Nenjjtons Of tics.

Spices quicken the pulfe, and accelerate the motion of the blood, and difiipate the fluids ; from
whence teannefs, pains in the ftomach, loathing;,

Acade'mick. a^. [academicus, hzx-l Re-

Thy throne is darknefs in th' abyfi of light,

A great depth, a gulf; hyperbolical! y.

them.

A

M./tcn't ParaJ'iJe LoJI, b. ii. /. 405.

Along the vaft abyj'i.

than by the common methods. Glanvil/e^Scepftt,
If the rays endeavour to recede from the denleft
part of the vibration, they may be alternately accelerated and retarded by the vibrations overtaking

fyott^n.

author ; while perfons fkilled in thofe fubjefts,
hear the tattle with contempt.
IValit'i Imprcmemcnt of ike Mind.

And, through the palpable obfcure, find out

s.

Ices.

young academic fiiall dwell upon a journal that
treats of trade, and be lavilh in the piaife of the

This uncouth way.

And fearch no farther than thyfclf reveal'd.

may fall down into
Bacon's Natural Hifttry, N° 307.
By a fkilful application of thofe notices, may be
gained the accelerating and bettering of fruits, and
the emptying of mines, at much more eafy ratet
beer, whereby the grolfer parts

nerally ufed in fpeaking of the profeflbrs
in the academies of France.
Acade'mick. «./. [from academy.} A ftudent of an univerfity.

A depth without bottom.

and fee whether it will not acceby opening the body of the

Itrjte the clarification,

Lat.]

[academicus,

bent his mind to a retired courfe.

tomtefs, Gr.]

A blaze of glory that forbids the fight;
O teach me to biiic\c tliee thus conceai'd,

Take new beer, and put in fome quantity of
ftale beer into it ;

great

Academi'cian. «. /. [academician, Fr.]
The member of an academy. It is ge-

\abyffus, Lat. aS>vaa^, bot

Who /hall tempt with wandVing feet

mentions a

kind of refolved privatcnefs; where, after the academical life, he had taken fuch a taftc of the rural,
as 1 have heard him fay, that he could well have

Stakcfpeare^s Antcry and Cleopatra*

The dark, unbottom'd,, inBnite aliyjs.

a

ff'ood, in his

Belonging to an univerfity.
He drew him firft into the fatal circle, from a

A wri-

ting declaring on what lands, highways,
or other places, it does abut.
Difl.
Aby'sm. n.f. [a^jy»»<, old Fr. now written contrafledly abiine.'\
gulf; the
fame with ahy/s.

A
;

To ACCE'LERATE, 'v.a. [accelere, Lat.]
1. To make quick, to liaften, to quicken
motion ; to give a continual impulfe to
motion, fo as perpetually to increafe.

made for the academians.

Acade'mical, cdj.

Abu'tta!.. n.f. [from abut.'\. The butting or boundaries of any land.

Oxonienfes,

become a party.

Re-

AcADfc'MiAN. n.f. [from acad(my.'\
fcholar of an academy or univerfity

abuts, or borders upon another.

X.

'\

academy.

The narrow perilous occun parts afunder*

Abv'ss. n.f.

Miller.

lating to an academy, belonging to an

Whofe high uprcared and abutting fronts

in political accounts ; as, another power
the treaty; that is, hst
\i3L% acceded to

and therefore termed f>/eii-

Jocacia, or Virginian acacia.

particle upoa.

ot"

A C C

A C C

AC A

kindled.
Tile fulminating damp will take fire at a candle,
or other flame, and, upon its accenfion, gives a
crack or report, like the difcharge of z. gun, and

Corinthian chapiter.

On cither Mc
Acanliu!, and each od'rous bulhy fhrub,
Fenc'd up the verdant wall.
Mill. Parad. Loftf b. iv. /. 696.

AcaTALe'ctIC.»._/.' [axaxaXrifli*®-, Gr."]
A verfe whidi has the complete number
of fyllables, without defedl or fuperfluity.
TiACCE'DE. 'V. n. [accede, 'Lzx.'l To be
added to, to come to ; generally ufed

makes an cxplofion fo f.ircibi; as fometimes to kill
the miners, ihake the earth, and force bodies, of
great weight and bulk, from the bottom oi the pic
or mine.

WsoJivard' s Natural Hiftory,

A'CCENT. n.f [accentus, Lat.]
1 .

The manner of fpeaking or pronouncing, with regard either to force or ele-

gance.
I

know.

I

know. Sir,

I

am no flatterer; he that be.

His promife Palamon accepts, but pray'd
To keep it better than the firft he made.

guited you in a plain accent was a plain knave 3
which, for my pJrt, I will not be.
Sbakefpeare's King hear,

2.

Thofe who have defended the proceedings of
our negociators at the treaty of Gertruydenburgh,

The found given to the fyllable pro-

dwell upon their zeal and patience in endeavouring
to work the French up to their demands, but fay
nothing of the probability that France would ever
accept them.
Stvift,

purchafe in lb removed a dwelling.
Sbalb^eare^s Asyou like it.

In grammar, the marks made upon fyllables, to regulate their pronunciation.
Accent f as in the Greek names and ufage, feems
to have regardeJ the tune o^ the voice ;

3.

tial

4. It is

A modification of the voice, expreffive
of the paflions or fentiments.
The tender accent of a woman's cry
Will pafs unheard, will unregarded die
When the rough feaman's louder fliouts prevail,

When fair occafion (hews the fpringing gale. Prior.
?« A'ccENT. -v. a. [from accentus, Lat.]
formerly elevated at the fecondfyllable,

him with the prefcnt that goeth

before me, and afterward 1 will fee his face:

adventure he will accept of mz.

per-

with the accent on the firlb fyllable, as
by Milton ; by others, with the accent
on the fecond, which is more analogical.
I. That which is likely to be accepted
;
grateful ; pleafing.
It is ufed with the

2. In poetry ; to pronounce or utter in ge-

Cod, tliat moft ample
reward in heaven is laid up for them. Hooker^ b. ii*
They have thofe enjoymcnt^only as the confequcnces of the ftate of efteem and acceptation they
are in with their parents and governours.
Locke on Education, § J.

that gives ; fo there is required alfo an acceptation
South's Seiwoiis,

on his part to whom it is g'ven.
5.

Itwill thereby take ivmy the

ii.

;

vowels.

pleafe ; with the

Accentua'tion. n,/. [^(xoxa accent uate.'\
The a£l of placing the accent in proi

particle

For the

to.

accent, fee Acceptable.

Do not omit thy prayers, fur want of a good ora-

.

nunciation.

tory J for he that prayeth

Marking the accent in writing.

cares not what he fuffers, fo he be the friend of

upon Cod's account,

Chriil; nor where nor when he prays, fo he may
do it frequently, fervently, and acattablf, Taykr.
If you can teach them to love and rclpe^V other

7» ACCE'PT. 1). a. [accipio, Lat. accepter,

pe tple, they will, as your age requires it, find
way s to cxprefs it acceptably to every one.
Locke on Education, § 145.

Acce'ptance. n.f.
1.

[^acceptance,

Fr.]

Spenjcr's Stale of Ireland,

If he tells us his noble deeds, we
him our noble acceptance of them.

Sbakcfpeare's Coriolanui.

Permi/five, and aitcplance found.

Paradife Lojf, ^. viil. A 43 5.

Some men cannot be foolswith fo good acceptance
as others.

South's Xrrm^ns,

The meaning of a word as it is received
or underftood; acceptation

now commonly ufed.

is

Acce'pter. a./, [from accept.] The perfon that accepts.

Acceptila'tion. n.f. [acceftilatio, Lat.

A

term of the civil law, importing the
remiflion of a debt by an acquittance

from the creditor, teftifying the receipt
of money which has never been paid.

Acce'ption.

a.

ncceptio, Lat.]

f.

[acceptiort,

Fr. from

The received fenfe of a

the meaning.
Not in ufe.
;
That this hath been cliecmcu thc due .ind prdper acception of this word, 1 fhall teftify by one
evidence, which gave me the firft hint of this notion.

Hammond on Ft/rrdatnentals,

mud alfo tell ACCE'SS. n.f. [In fome of its fenfes, it

Thus 1 imbold^i'd fpake, and freedom us'd

2.

Clarendon, b. viii»

All matter is either fluid or folid, in a large
acceptation of the words, that they may comprehend even all the middle degrees betwren extreme
fixednefs and coherency, and the moft rapid inteftinemotionof the particles of bodies. Boitl. Serf?;,

word

Reception with approbation.
Ey that acceptance of his I'overeignty, they alfo
a cepteJ of his lawsj why then Ihould any other
laws now be ufed amongl^ them }

Neitlierdo ye kindle fire on my altar for nought.
I have no pleafure in you, faith the Lord of hofts,
neither will 1 accept an offering at your hand.
Mclachi, i. 10.
God is no relpeOer of perfons : but, in evfrj
nation, he that feareth him, and worketh rlghteAfli, x. 34, 35.
oufnefs, is accrf,ieii ivith him.
You have been gracicuHy pleafed to accept this
tender of my duty.
Dryden'i Dedicatinn f) hit FaLlet.
Charm by acc^ting, by fubmitting fway.
Vet have your hjmourmoft whf^n you nbcy. Pope.

as, to accept terms, accept a treaty.
They flaughter'd many of the gentry, for whom
BO fcx or age could be aceifieJ for excuf:. S'lttney.

fenfe occurs rarely.
As, in order to the pafling away a thing by gift,
there is required a furrcnder of all right on his part

Thereupon the earl of Lauderdale made a difcourfc upon the feveral queffions, and what acceptation thefe words and expreflions had.

s

of juridical fenle ;

Acceptance in the juridical fenfe. This

Acce'ptableness. n.f. [from accepiable.'\ The quality of being acceptable.

acceflaileneji of thut
To write or note the accents.
coijun£lion.
Crew'' Ccfmologia Sacra, b<
c. 2.
Ti Acce'ntu ATE. f. a. [accentuer, Fr.] Acce'ptably. ai/'u. [from acceptai/e.]
To place the proper accents over the
In an acceptable manner
fo as to

2. It is ufed in a kind

4.

The meaning of a word, as it is commonly received.

!

To take with pleafure ; to receive
kindly ; to admit with approbation.
It is diflinguilhed from recei've, iisypeafic from general ; noting a particular
manner of receiving.

are,

nity and acceptation with

do not fee any other method

3.

1.

to leave

falvation,

Addifon on Italy.

neral.
you that before
Have fcrv'd my youth to vent fome wanton cries.
congeal'd
with
now
grief, can fcare implore
And,
Strength to accent. Here my Albertus lies 1 fftinn.

them undone, excludeth from
nntwithftandirg, of fo great dig-

fity, that,

5

Paradife LciJ}, b. ii.
left for men of
that funftion to take, in order to reform the
world, than by ufing all honell arts to make themfclves acceptable to the laity.
Sivi/t.
After he had made a peace fo acceptable to the
church, and fo honourable to himfelf, he died with
an extraordinary reputation of fan3ity.

,

The ftate of being acceptable ; regard.
Some things, although not fo required of necef-

Thi:i wuman, whom thou niad'fl :o be my help.
And gav'rt me as thy perfefl gift, fo good.

I

Raleigh's Hiftcry of the World, b. i.

tyr.

3.

So fit, fo acceptable, fo divine.
That fiom her hand I could expefi no ill.

Having got fomebody to mark the laft fylhblc

Dcnbam's Sophy„

Good reception, acceptance.
Cain, envious of the acceptation of his brother's
prayer and facrifice, flew him ; making himfelf
the firft manflayer, and his brother the firft mar-

particle to before the perfon accepting.

but one, where it is long, in words above two fyllables (which is enough to r"gi!a;e her pronunciation, and accenting the words let her read daily in
the gofpeis, and avoid underrt.mdirjj them in Lahjcke on Edu:amny ^ 177.
tin, if rtic can.

Sidney, b, ii.

good or great.

is

2.

pronounced by fome

It is

are rewarded with like

What is new finds better acceptation, than what

Acce'ptable. adj. {acceptable, Fr. from
the Latin.]

all

coldnefs oi acceptation,

for the remiflion of our fins, and for the obtaining

marks or rules.

2.

himfelf unto me; but

being acceptable.
He hath given us his natural blood to be flied,

Tayhr's tVcrthy Ccmmumcant.

Reception, whether good or bad. This
large fenfe feems now wholly out of ufe.
Vet, poor foul
knows he no other, but that I
do fufpeft, negled^, yea, and deleft him
For,
every day, he finds one way or other to fet forth
-^

Thc quality of
See Acceptable.

the grace and acceptability of repentance.

Co'wel,
[Jrom. accept.]

!

Gencjis,x%xn. 2.0.

AccEPTABi'i-iTY. n.f.

to fpeak words with
regard to the grammatical

O my unhappy lines

or not.

Accepta'tion. n.f.
1.

now at the firft.
1. To pronounce,
particular

^oi, xiii. 10.

_

I will appeafe

Sbahjpeare' i jfuliui Cafar.
Winds on your wings to heav'n her accents bear
Such words as heav'n alone is fit to hear.
DtyJ. Virg. Paji. 3.

5.

of a rent, whereby the giver binds hima former aft done
by another, whether it be in itfelf good
felf, for ever, to allow

of.

How many ages hence
In Hates unborn, and accintsyex. unknown.

Acce'ptance. [inlaw.] Thc receiving

and par-

fometimes ufed with the particle

man's chiefeft gsod, becfufe

he, who takes it in this fenfe, alters the fubjeft of
the difcourfc,
South,

regard.

rc/r perfons.

is

under the common acceptance of it, not only falfe
but odious: for, according to this, pleafure ani
fenfuality pafs for terms equivalent; and therefore

He will furcly reprove you, if ye do fccretly ar-

accent raifing the voice in

Shall this our lofty fcene be a£led o'er.

In the language of the Bible, to accept
perfons, is to aft with perional

the acute

fome certain fyllables to
a higher, i. e, more acute pitch or tone, and the
grave deorefling it lower, and both having fome em
phafts, i. e* more vigorous pronunciation. Holder.
4. Poetically, language or words.

That pleafure

indeed it is the peixeption of good that is properly
pleafure, is an aifertionmoft certainly true, though,

Dry den's Tables.

nounced.
Your accent is fomething finer than ycu could

3.

A CC

A C C

A C C

the

word

leems derived from accefj'us ; in others,
from acccfjio, Lat. acces, Fr]
I. The way by which any thing ;nay be
approached.
The accefs of the town was only by a neck of
.Bacon,
There remained very advantageous aeC'fh for
temptations to enter and invade men, the fortifications being very fl-ndcr, little knowledge of immo.'tality, or an; thing beyond tliis life, and no
land.

alfurarvvfi

•ffuraace tlut rrptatance

A C C

A C C

A C C
wouM be iJmitted Tor I

Al an ifland, we are atceJUU oB every fide, and
expofed to perpetual invafions ; againft which it i<

Hammof^d on yundamntalu
And hrrt th* aceejt a gloomy grove defends {

<in.

impoflible to fortify ourfelvea fufficiently, without
a power at fea.
Addifint Frteboldtr.

And hrie th* unnuvigabic lake extendSi
H>'cr whofe unhappy waters, void of lights

In converfation, the tempers of men are open and

An atttjforj it faid to b« that which it*» tlv
cede unto fome principal fad or tiling in law (
and, as fuch, generally fpeakiog, follows tlie rciAylife,
foir and nature of its principal.

A'cciDENCE.

more appofite to particular occafions.

either to things or men.

cidents,

Rcgrrs.

When we are wrong'd, and would unfold our Acce'ssion. »./ [acctj/!e. Lit, accejion,
1.

£v'n by thofe men that moft have done us wrong.
Shah/pearc*

ter vaft fums of money, and great wealth gotten,
Clarendon.
he died unlamented.
There would not have been found the difference
here fct down betwixt the force of the air, when
expanded, and what that force (hould have been

Drydcni ^neid, vii. /, tOg.
He grants what they befought j
InftruAed, that to Cod js ao-acceft
Without Mediator, whofe high office now

Mofcs in figsre bears.

according to the theory, but that the included inch
of air received fome little accejjion during the trial.
Boyle" i Spring &/* the j^ir.
The wifeft among the nobles began to apprehend the growing power of the people j and therefore, knowing what an accejjion thereof would accrue to them, by fuch an addition of property,
Sivift.
ufed all means to prevent it>
Charity, indeed, and works of munificence, are
the proper difcharge of fuch over-proportioned

Afilicn's Par, Lut, h.xi'i. l.ijg,
3. Encreafe, enlargement, addition.
The gold was accumulated, and (lore treafures,
for the moll part; but the filver is ftill growing.
Befides, infinite is the aectfi of territory and empire ij tlie fame enterprise.
Bacon.
Sot think fuperfluous their aid ;
I, from the influence of thy iooks, receive

in thy fight

Wore wife, more watchful, ftronger.

is

felf to

;

jnfcparable and eHential attribute of Deity.

Is with more force againft Achilles bent }

Of

Dryden'i Fah/ei.

i

per j but this fenfe feems yet fcarcely
received into our language.
For as relapfes make difcafes.
More defperate than their firll accrffes. Itudihrat.
[froiB accejpxry.'\

The ftate of being acceflary.
Perhaps this will draw us into a negative accrfDtcay cf Piety.
farirfefi to the mifchiefs.

[A corruption, as it
feems, of the word acceffory, which fee ;
but now more commonly ufed than the
proper word.]
1 hat which, without
being the chief conllituent of a crime,
contributes to it.
But it had formerly a
good and general fenfe.
As for thofe, things that are accejpiry hereunto,
thofe things that fo belong to the way of falvation,

A'ccEstAHY, *dj.

&c.
Il(ioktr,h,\\\,^ ^,
He hath taken upon him the government o(
HuU, without any apprehenfion or imagination,
that it would ever make him aicijj'ary to rebellion.
C/arendon, h. viii.

Acce'ssible. aifj. [accejpbilii, Lat. acctjjible, Fr.]
That which may be approached ; that which we may reach or
arrive at.

applied both to perfons and
thing.'v, with the particle tt.
It

is

Sonic lie more open to our fenles and daily obothers are more occult and hidden,
and though accejfibUy '\n fome meafure, to our
fenfes, yet not without great fearch and fcrutiny,
or fome happy accident. HaJt'i Origin of Mankind,
Thofe things, which were indeeid inexplicable,
liave been rackt and tortured to difcover tbemfelves, while the plainer and more acctffihie truths,
«s if defpicablc while caf^i ait clouded and obfervation \

jfcurc^.

The adl of arriving at ; as, the king's

3.

4. It is fometimes ufed, after the French,
to fignify the returns or fits of a diftem-

A'ccEssARiNESS. ». /.

If ftie were but the body's accident.

And her fole being did in it fubfift.
As white in fnow ihe might herfclf abfent,

And in the body's fubftance not be mif&'d.
Sir y. Dav'el.

An accidental mode, or an accident, is fuch a
mode as is not neceffary to the being of a thing ;
for the fubjeft may be without it, and yet remain
of the fame nature tliat it was before ; or it is that

mode which may be feparated or aboliftied from
its

2.

Dkoj of Piety,

accejfioH to the throne.

.A'ccfiSiORlLV. adv. \it<3sa accejjory .^ In
the manner of an acceflbry.
A'ccESSORY.flf^'. Joined to another thing,
fo as to increafe it ; additioaal.
In this kind there is not the leaft a£lion, but it
doth fomewhat make to the accejfory augmentation
Hxkrr.
ofourblifs.

A'ccessory.

h. /. \acce^oria!,

Lat. ac-

This word, which had
Fr.
anciently a general fignification, is now
almoft confined to forms of law.]
\. Applied to perfons.
cijfoire,

A man that is guilty of a felonious ofl'ence, not
principally,

but by participation ; as, by com-

And a man
may be acceijory to the offence of another, after
two forts, by the common law, or by ftarute and,
by the common law, two ways alfo; that is, bemandment, advice, or concealment.

:

Before the rafl j as, when
one commandeth or advifeth another to commit a
felony, and is notprefentat the execution thereof;
for his prcfence makes him alfo a principal ; wheiefore there cannot be an acccjjory before the fa£l in
manftaughter ; becaufe manflaughtcr is fudden
and not prepcnfed. Accijjhry after the fadl, is,
when one receiveth him, wW>m he knoweth to
have committed leiony. A<ctjrory by ftatute, is
he that abets, counlels, or hides any man committing, or having committed, an offence made feCewel.
lony by ftatute.
By the common law, the accijfories cannot be
proceeded againft, till tlie principal has received
his trial.
SpenJ. Stale of JreUnd.
But paufe, my foul and ftudy, ere thou fall
fore or after the fatl.

!

On accidental joys, th^ effential.
Still

Alike, to ferpents all, as aceeffirirt

To his bold riot.

Milton' t P»r. t,^, h, X, U 510.

Applied to things.

Hooker, b. v. ^ 9.

profitable.

The flood, and other accidents of time, made
it one common field and pafture with the land of
Raleigh's Hifior/ of the World,

Eden.

Our joy is tum'd
Into perplexity, and new amaze
For whither is he gone ? \f\sM accident
Parajife Regained,
Hath rapt him from us ?
And trivial accidents Ihall be forborn.

That others may have time to uke their turn.
Dryden's Failet,

The reformation owed nothing to the good inHe was only an inftrutentions of king Henry.
mentof it (a« the logicians fpeak) by accident.
Sivift's Mijcellanies,

Accide'ntal. ft./, [accidental, Fr. See

ACCIDENT.]

A property nonefTeii-

tial.

Conceive, as much as you can, of the efTentiaU
of any fubjed, before you confider its accidentals,
fVaits's Logick.

Accide'ntal. adj. [from accident.]
1. Having the quality of an accident,
nonefTential ; ufed with the p.irticle to,
before that in which the accident inheres.

A diftinflion is to be made between what
plcafcs naturally in itfclf,

and what pleafcjs upon

the account of machines, atlors, dances, and
circumftances, which are merely accidental to the
Rymer's Tragedies of the laft Age,
tragedy,

This it ecc'idental to
difficulties

Dcnnt.

Now were all transform'^

2.

That which happens unfbrefeen; cafualty, chance.
General laws are like general rules in phyfick,
according whereunto, as no wife man will dclire
himfelf to be cured, if there be joined with his
difcal'c fome fpecial accident, in regard whereof,
that whereby others in the fame infirmity, but
without the like accident, recover health, w«uld
be, to him, either hurtful, or, at the leaft, un-

a ftate of religion,

and

tlierefore ought to be reckoned among the ordinary

before accejjbriei to abide

A trial, muft the principal be try'd.

IVatti's Lo^ick,

fubje£l.

In grammar, the property of a word.
Tile learning of a language in nothing elfe but
the informing of ourfelvei, what compufurei of
letters arc, by confent and inftitution, to fignify
fuch certain notions of things, with their nioda.
H'ilderi Elements ofSpeccb*
lities and accidents.

3.

Does not the fool perceive his argument

The property or quality of any being,
which may be feparated from it, atleafl
in thought.

as, accejjion to a confederacy.

Befidc, what wile objeaions he prepares
Againft my late acciJJMn to the wars ?

the

Brii'wnt Vulgar ErrcurSf h, u f . 10.
The reputation
virtuous aftions paft, if not kept up
With an accefs, and frei>. fupply, of new ones,
Is loft and loon forgotten.
Daihant^s So/>hy,

1.

The aft of coming to, or joining one's

2.

fc::m an aueji in religion, and fucli js cannot at ail
confiH with athclfm, yet doth it dcduflivcly, and
for unit)

A'CCIDENT. n./, [accident, Lat.]

accejiom, and the only virtuous enjoyment of tliem.
Rogirs^s Serm^ni.

Paradije hufi, h. !x.

Although to opinion, there be many gods, may

do want eloquence.
Taylor the tTatrr-poet,

Nor could all the king's bounties, nor his own
large acccffom, raife a fortune to hi« heir ; but af-

And carry prefenti to procure «c^.

upon inference, include the fame;

I do confefs I

And never yet did learn mine accidence.

ment, augmentation.

They go commiflion'd to require a peace,

jtcceji in every virtue ;

fpeech.

Fr.]
Increafe by fomething added, enlarge^

griefs,

We «re deny'd acf^i unto hii perfon«

[a corruprion of^ /jr-

n. f.

The
from accidentia, Latin.]
little
book containing the firft rudiments of grammar, and explaining
the properties of the eight parts of

tremble, their attention is awake, and their minds
difpofc-d to receive the ftrongeft impreffions ; and
what is fpnken is generally more affeding, and

'No bird prerames to (leer his airy flight.
Orjdrnt j^netd, vi,
i. The means, or liberty, of approaclung

Tithtjan,

of it.

2. Cafual, fortuitous, happening by chance.
Thy fin's not accidental, but a trade.
Shakefpeare's Mcaf. fjr Mcaf,

So fhall you hear

01 tcddinltl jai^tMaf) cafual flaughteis

Of

A C C

A C C

Of deatht put on by cunning, and forc'd caufe.

To Accto'r. v. a.

Shakeff. Hdmlct.

Look upon things of the mod acddtual and
mutablf! nature;

accidenlal in their

and mutable in

their

1.

produSion,
yet God's
is as certain in him, as
the
memory of them is, or can be, in us.
Smith' t Sc mors.

They that, efcapc bed in the temperate zone,

1.

Provifion of conveniencies.

Dcnbam'% Sc;>h.

2.

In the plural, conveniencies, things re-

tially.

Other points no lefs concern the Commonwealth, though but accidentally depending
U3 .n
the former.
«>>«/«•, St. :fir.l.
I conclude choler acciJetuaUy bitter,

make their way to preferment, yet t'.ic
world is fo corrupted, that nu man can
reafon»bly hope to be rewarded in it, merely
upon ?ccount of his virtue.
Swift', MijccHanics.
tally

in ufe.

'^"i''''-

ribabits near a place ; a borderer.
adj.

arc

auommaMt to

ment and diforeti.n.

y good intents)
t c^ufc £„ fj„

A

[acccm-

;

nion,

with this word, ftand, flanj,

many things,

altered

not

men, in

With joy, and acclamathm loud, that one,
That, of fo many myriads faU'n, yet
one
Retum'd, not loft.
Milt, farad. Left, i.vU l.zi
Such an encliantment is the.e in

Dryden on Dramatic Poetry,

.

could not be acotr.modaiid to the
nature of things, and human aftliiis
his principles
;
could not be made to agree with that
conftitution
and order which God hatli fettled in the
world.
3.

The Ikepnefs or rtope of a line inclining to the horizon, reckoned
•
upwards

Acco'mplice.

Part know how to accomodate St.
James and
St. Paul better than fome late
reconcilers.

I.

To Acco'mmodate. f. n.

much in ufe.]

unto

tiie

twelve figns of the

n
Brown.

zodiac.
»T

•

L

Neither

r

,

.

fort

They are fo aftcd and
to caft their eggs in

all

Accii vous. adj. {accli-vu,, Lat.] Rifinp
I

Sivifi.

in a fenfe

j

mouth,

it have done, when
it had all it»
organs of fpccch, and accomplices of f<,und, about

''•

AddiJ'ontSpiaatorfti" zn_j.

.

It is ufed with the

panicle to before a
thing, and •with before a perfon,

3,

Childlefs Arturiua, vaftly rich before.

Thus by his lolfes multiplies his ftore,

to.

Sufpedled for accomplice to the fire,
Th.it burnt his palace but to build

directed by nature, as
fuch places as arc moft ac-

it

higher.

Dryd.Juii.'Sit.

Who, ftiould theyft^l for want of his rcliet

He judg'd himfelf flr«»i^/(« with the thief,
Diydcn't Fables.

what,

*

A partner, or to-operator

If a tongue would be talking without a

Ry

Ray o„ th Crtat,.,,.

2.

what could

ccmmadate for the cxcluCon of their young,
and
where there is food ready for them fo foon as they
be hatched.
on the Creation.
In thefe cafes we examine the why, the

milk

courage all oppofition againft liis infamous projert.

variety there

particle/iir, but more frequently with

fenfe.

There were feveral fcandalous reports induftri
oudy fpread by Wood, and his accomplices, to dif-

indifferent.

of chymifts have duly confidcred
is
in the textures and
confiftencics of compound bodies; and
how little
the confiftince and duration of
many of them
feem to accommodate and be explicable by the
pro
pofed^ notion.
Boyle; Sce/>t. Chym.

how great

An aflbciate, a partaker, ufually in aa
ill

To be con-

Suitable, fit; ufed fometimes with
the

P«/«A>.

their

wives and younger
children below, do, not without
fome difficttltv,
clamber up the accli^itie,, dragging
their kine
w.th them, whe-e ll«y feed
them, aod

Vol. L

»./. [complice, Fr. from
complex, a word in the barbarous Latin,

Norri:.

«, the afcent of an hill is the acc/intt/j] Acco'mmodate. adj. [accommodatut, Lat.]

with a (lope.

Stvift's Short yie-w of Ireland.

to become a companion to.
No maninrSccl doth accompany mth others
but he learneth, ere he is aware, fome gcfture*
voice, or faftiion.
Bacon's Nat. Hi/lory',

To reconcile ; to adjuft what feems inconfiftent or at variance ; to make
confillency appear.

tribes accommodate

1

do

Ltcie.
perverfc-

As folly IS ufually accompanied with
nefs, fo it is here.

formable to.
They make the particular enfigns of the twelve

words, and
'' ''"'" '" '<""«> to be ruined
?!,*
"f ^'^f
plaufibly, and
to be ulhered to their
dcrtruaion
with paacg)nck and acclamation.
South
AccLi'viTY. n.f. [from acclit-ut, Lat.]

.he *a,;y-work.

body, it is wifely ordered by nature, that pain
fhould accompany the reception of feveral ideas.

that they

thefis, that

FM,t.

Among thofe friendly pow'rs, who him teceiv'd

thew, and make butter and cheefe,
and

Sfenfer, Sonnet iii.
The great bufinefs of the fenfe* being to ^lake
u: take notice of what hurts or advantages
the

rmt hit ronfijrtune to li^bt upon an hypo- To Acco'mpany. 'v.n. To aflbciate with;

token of the gieater reverence, to
«and, to utter
ceruin word* o{ atcUmatio,, and,
at the name of
Jefus, to bow,
11,^1,^, i. V. ^ ig.
Gladly then he mix'd

leaving

both of perfons and

Co vjfit her, in her chafte bower of reft,
Accompany'd with angel-like delights.

were not natural before, but that he
might accomxKdait himfelf to the age in which he lived.

,_

Shouts of a;>plaufe ; fuch, as thofe
with
which a viftorious army falutes the
ge°
neral.

nien,

it is ufed

things.

With the particle /<7, to adapt, to fit, to
make confiiient with.
He had

ACCLAMA , rioN. n.f. [acclamatio, Lat.]

The

Dia.

,

With loud acc:amt, and vaft applaufe, is rent.

the defcent is the declivity.

pany ; companion,

Sbakcfp, CytnbcUre.

2.

L
The herald
end* ; the vaulted firmament

It hath been the cuftom
of Chriftian

it were, of ui accomparfable folita.
of a civil wildnefs.
Sidney, b. i.

Acco'mpanier. »./ [from accompany.]
The perfoii that makes part of the com-

With rheirown noblenefs, which could haveturn'd

^''"'» P'r. Lofi, b. iii. /. ,07.

t>ryd.

A (hiw, as

rincfs, and

A diftaff to a lance), gilded pale looks.

jrfoitthypow'n, with load tfrt/dim,

.

Sociable : a word now not ufed.

fo

rulei a;

j1(ccmm,dalcj by the place (more charming

3^5 day.

Crftthe rerU-^f/a/w. jiwloli,
lenoon.]
(hout of praife,

.

ation, adjulhnent.

Acco'mpanable. adj. [from accompany.'\

1 hcie three,

The .eft io nothing

:

//a/«i Origin.

Compofition of a difference, reconcili-

4-

WattC, Logici.
a.

th: moft curious

mechanifm.

To fupply with conveniencies of any To ACCO'MPANY. -v. a. [accompagntr,
Fr.]
kind.
To be with another as a compaIt has tuiih before the thing,

1.

AccLA iM,»./ [flfi^/owo, Lat. from which

.,-1

Glan-vilU's Scepfts*

this variety, by a wife judg-

a';l

frma.

The organization of the body, with accommodation to its funitions, is fitted with

Dia.

of pe.f.ns, thing,, anions, times, and
places;

(As I before x:.n:r.i'xt'i) all our ftate,

n.^-„K;.

teach men

to cant endlefsly about ittateria and

That which may be fitted ; widi
the particle to.
As there is infinite variety in the circumftances

cipiint.^

c

Indeed that difputing phyfialogy is no accommodation to your defignf, which are not to

[accommodabilis,

we muft be furniihed with fuch general

have fuch

to

Adaptation, fitnefs ; vvith the particle /o.

3.

Lat.]

j)jg
To Acci TE, -V. a. [accito, Lat.] To call, To ACCO'MMODATE. v.
mcdo, Lat.]
to fomrnons ; a word not in ofe now.

:-

The king's commiilioncrs were

Tairi Suten.

Acco'mmodable.

•v,

accommodations, a;; the other thought fit to leave t»
them ; who had been very civil to tlie king's
commiflioners.
Clar.„don, b. yiii.

A'ccOLENT. n.f. \accokns, Lat.] He that

ceiver, perhaps lometjmes ufed for re-

fitly.

quifite to eafe or refrefhment.

About the cauldron many cooks accoiTd,
With hooks and hJles, as need did require
The while the viands in the veOel boil'd.
They did about their bufinefs fweat, and forely

Acci PIENT. n./. [accipient, Lat.] A re-

Suitably,

date.]

ufe.

Accide'ntalness. n./. [from accidenla/.]
The quality of being accidental.

Our coronation done, we will accit^,

modate.]

Tillotfon.

adv. [from accom-

Accommoda'tion. n.f. [ham accommit'

To Acco'iL. v. IT. [See Coil.]
To
crowd, to keep a coil about, to buftle,
to be in a hurry: a word now
out of

After an accidental manner ; noneffen-

and acrimonioui, but not in idilf. Harvey on
Cmfum^tkns.
Z, Cafually, fortuitoufly.
Although virtuous men do fometimes acciJer

Acco'mmodately.

Creatim.

Accidentally, aJi>. [from accidental]

Hcav n ihjrtrn Ha:

prefent ftate and inclination.

would be acchyid with long nights,' very tedious,
no lefs than forty days.
Ray o-l the

itill

No pnnre, :jo peer,

to their

to

feems

it

Ay, luch a minifter as wind to fire,
Tha: adds an accidtntal fiercenefs to

Ani (h'eavV, cwifi^r'-j to

but tliat he condefcended to it as moft accommodate

At the well head the pureft ftreamsarife;

flgmfy adiientitious.

1.

God did not primarily intend to appoint th!»
way

of worfliip, and to impofe it upon them aj
that which was moft proper and agreeable to
him,

fill

But mucky filth his branching arms annoys,
And with uncomely weeds the gentle wave arr/oyj.
'Fdi}y ^cen.
2. To fill to fatiety ; in which
fenfe clov is

paflage

Its narural fury.

[See CLOY.]

up, in an ill fenfe ; to crowd, to
Huff full ; a word almoft obfolete.

continuance ;

prefc'ence of them

3. In the following

To

A C C

To ACCOMPLISH. -J. a. [aaompUr, tr.

and the how, of things, and ptopofc means
acttmmodttt It ti>c end.
VEJtran^c,

from coinpUo, Lat.]
,

D

i.T«

A C C

The means
wifdom,

atamflijb a dcfign.

joymer.ts, are unfit

He that U fir oft (hall die of the peftilence, and
lie that is

mine.

my fury upon them.

Acco'mpt. It./.

Extkkl, vi. la.

To fulfil ; as, a prophecy.
The vifion,
Which I made known to Lucius ere the ftroke
'

Of this yet fcarce cold battJe, at this in(»ant

ShaUfra-t'i Cymhlint.

[Fr. compter And compte,
Skinner.^ An ac-

Mufical note.

.

Try, if there were in one

We muft not blame Apollo, but his lute.
If falfe accords from her diit fttings be fent.
Sir y. Daviet.

Oxvn accord ; voluntary motion : ufed
both of perfons and things.
Ne Guyon yet fpal^e word.

.

As the accompt runs on, generally the accompt-

Which to them open'd of its own accorr!.

The day On which

Acco'mpting DAY.

He bear himfelf with honourable aftion

Till that they came unto an iron door.

Souib's Sermors.

ant goes backward.

ta'ry Stuetn.

Will you blaxe any man

doing that of hia
own accord, which all men (hmld be compelled to

the reckoning is to be fettled.

Such as he hath obferv'd in noble ladies
Unto their lords, by them aecomplilhtd.
_
Stakrjf. 7am. of a Sircw.

To whom thou much

doll

owe, thou

much

make my lieaven in a lady's lap.

Hocier.
t th.mfelvea.
All animal fubftance.-, eipofed to tlie air, turn
alkaline of their f wn accord; and fome vegetables,
by heat, will not turn acid, but alkaline.

To ACCO'RD. f. a. [derived, by fome,
from corda, the firing of a mufical ineither mind or
ilrument, by others, from corda, hearts ;
5. To adorn, or furnifh,
body.
in the firft, implying harmony, in the
twenty golden crowns.
Than to accompli/h
'^•^

jlrbuthnit en Arimcr.ls.

Hhakijf.litnryy

From the tents
.

With bufy hammers clofmg rivets up.
Give dreadful note of preparation. Shakefp. Htri,
Ac co'm p I, I s H E D . participial adj.

V.

cxpcfts, that, under a tutor, a

of fuch leaps and gambols, as being accardeii to
the pipe which they bore in their mouths, even

Ltcie.

god Pan, and his companions the fatyrs.

For who
gentleman Ihould be an ammflj/hiJ publick orator or logician.

2.

.

as they danced, made a right piilure of their

finiftied in

Sidney, h. ii.

Gives all the (irength and colour of our life.

To bring to agreement

2.

;

to compofe ;

to accommodate.
Men would not reft upon bare contrafts without
reducing the debt into a fpecialty, which created
much certainty, and acctrdtd many fuits.

That fpteious' nJon(Ver, my acccmfli/h'rl fnare.

,

Sam/on Agcn.

Acco'mplisher. n.f. [from accompliJh.'\
DiSl.
The pcrfon that accompliflies.
Acco' a PLiSHUBKr. It./. lac<ompliJ~ement,

Sir

To Acco'r D. f. n.

M. Hale.

tion.

But that my heart acccrdtth ivitb my tongue.
Seeing the deed is meritorious,

ShaS^p.Hen.Vl
Several of the main parts of Mofcss biftory, as
concerning the flood, and the (irft fathers of the
acctr.i
fcve:al nations of the world, do very well
hiliory.
ivith the mod ancient accounts of pmfane
Till tfon. Sermon i.
Jarring int'refts of themfelves create

Th" accorditg mufick of a well-mixt (late.

Aoco'r-D.

Conformity to fomething.
The only way of defining of fin, is, by the contrariety to the will of God ; as of good, by the
accordance vntl) that will.

Acco'rdant. adj. [accordant, Fr.] WilNot in ufe.
ling ; in a good humour.
1 he prince difcovered that he loved your niece,
and meant to acknowledge it this night in a dance;
and, if he found her accordant, he meant to take
the prefent time by the top, and inftantly break
Skakefp. Muck ado ahout Nothing.
with you of it.

Our churches are places provided, that the people

an accord and peace between
Bacon's Hen, VII.
them.
If both are fatisfy'd with this accord.
Swear by the laws of knighthood on my fword.
Dryd. Fat.

ing to its mjfteries, but alfo its commandments.
Sprat's Sermtm.

Noble is the fame that is built on candour and

for a mediator of

Embelli(hm«nt, elegance, ornament of
Young heirs, and elder brothers, from their
cwn refleifling up.in theeftatestheya.e born to, and

z.

Concurrence, union of mind.
At laft fuch grace I found and means I wrought,
That I that la 'y to my Ipoufe had won,

therefore thinking all other accimplijhmntt unnecelTary, arc iff no manner of ufc but to keep

Accord of friends, confent of parents fought,
Affiance made, my happincfs begun.
.

They

gathered

Spenfir's Fairy Sheer.
tlicniiyvcs together, to fight

might there alTemble themfelves in due and

decent manner, according to their feveral degrees
Hooker, h. v. ^ 13.
and orders.
Our leal, then, (houlJ be according to knowledge And what kind of knowledge ? Witli ut
according to the true, faving,
all queftion, firft,
It (liould be according to
evangelical knowledge.
the gofpcl, the whole gcfpel : not only according to
its truths, but precepts : not only according to its
fiee grace, but necelTary duties : not only accord-

There was no means for him to fatisfy all
obligations to God and man, but to ofler himfelf

•

.

properly a participle, and is therefore never ufed but with to.]
.
In a manner fuitable to, agreeably to,
it is

of a difference.

mind or body.

Aldifin, Speftator, N" 123.
op their families.
4. The a£l of obtaining or perfefting any
thing; attainment; completion.

Pope.

n./. [accord, Fr.]

Acompaft; an agreement ; adjuftment

I.

Completion ; as, of a prophecy.
The miraculous fuccefs of th; apo.lles preach-

Fairfax, h.'n.Jlan*ab%'

wrought.
2.

in proportion.

And to prefervc my fovereign from his foe.

not the occ.ilion to
Sir Jibn Hayward.
^( loft.
Thereby he might evade the aatmfl'^nur.t of
thofe affliftions he now but gradually end urcth.
BrtnvH^s Vulgar Errours.
He thought it impo(rible to (inJ, in any one
for
body, all thofe perfcSions which he fought
the acitmflijimtnt of a Helena j becaufc nature,
that is
In any individual ptrfon, makes nothing
Drydm'i Dufrtjiry, Pre/.
perfed in all its parts.

<lcftiny or advice, they fuffered

3.

And prays he may in long accordance bide,

I

Completion, full performance, perfec-

',

mon felicity, in cafe, by their evil, either through

with the

To agree, to fuit one Ac co' R D N c prep, [from accord, of which

with the particle w/VA.
with another
1 hings are often fpoke, and feldom meant

This would be the acccmpCi/hment of their com-

perfon ;

a

Hammond's Fundamentals.

Pope's Epift.

I

ing, and the acampliJhiKer.t of miny of their prewere
i'ldt'ions, which, to thofe early Chriiiians,
matters of fath only, are, to us, matters of figh:
^iitriury'tSirmoin.
and expetience.

Agreement with
particle iMith.

With that great worth which hath fuch wonder*

The lights and (hades, whofe well acardeJ ftrife

never had ! fond with too late.
Was in the valeof Sorec, Dallla,

2.

1

chief

her panting heart danced to the mufick.

The next I took to wife,

1

Sbate/p. Titus And.

Acco'rdance. n./. [from accord.]

Her hands accorded the lute's mufic to the voice;

excellence.

O that

Titus, I am come to talk with thee.
No, not a word: how can I grace my talk,
Wanting a hand to give it that accord?

Siilnty, b.\.

refpea of embellifiiments ; ufed commonly of acquired
qualifications, without including moral

Elegant ;

To make agree ; to adjuft one thing to
another ; with the particle to.
The (irft fports the (hepherds (hewed, were full

young

Complete in fome qualification.

1.

Aftion in fpeaking, correfpondent to
the words.

6.

other, unity.]

The armourers uctmfTtp'ing the knights.

for

do, that are not willing

maft pay;
Think on the debt againft th' accompt'wg day.
Sir J. Dnkam,

Oh miferable thought, and more unlikely.

two bells of

Bacons Natural Hljlorj, No 281.

accord.

ant.

^**''/°«-

ftceple

unifon, whether the ftriking of the one would
move the other, mire than If it were another

Account-

See

reckoner, computer.

,

4. To gain, to obtain.
Tell him from me (a» he will win my love)

I'll

Beauty is nothiii^ clfc but a juft acard and muharmony of the members, animated by a
Drydm't Dujrejnoj, Pre/.
healthful conftitution.
tual

A

our Saviour foretold at fo great a

diftance.

ence of one thing with another.

but

count, a reckoning. See Account.
The foul may have time to call itfelf to a juft
accompt of all things paft, by means whereof reHotter, i.v. §46.
pentance is perfefled.
Each Cbriftmas they accanpn did dear;
And wound their bottom round the year. Pritr,
Acco'mptant. It./, [accomptant, Fr.]

We fee every day thofe events eaaflly aaompTilhtd, which

for,

anciently accompier.

He would accampli/h Icventy years in the defoDanitl, ix. a.
lations of Jerulilcm.

Is full accmflijh'd.

Harmony, fymmetry, juft correfpond-

purpofe, not only

of their frequent oppofit'.on and contrariety
South' t Scrm.
to, the aiccmplipmir.i of fucli ends.

». To complete a period of time.

3.

that

for

alfo

temaineth,

Thus will I eccimflifr

Jtpua, IX. 1.

for the aitainmcnt of thofe earthly cn-

upon the account of their infufficicr.cy

near (hall fall by the fword, and he that
and is befieged, (hall die by the fa-

with •Tofliua and Urael, with one eccorj.

by policy and worldly

fuggcfted

To complete, to execute fully; as, to

».

A C C

A C C

.

ingenuity, according to thofe beautiful lines of Sir
Addijon, Sptaalor.
John Denham.

With regard to.

1.

God made all things in number, weight, and
meafure, and gave them to be confidercJ by us actording to thefe propeities,

3.

In proportion.
is, I

which

are inherent in

Hc:dcr en Time,

creatcJ beings.

The following phrafe

think, vitious.

A man may, with prudence and a good confclencc, approve of the profeiTed principles of

one

patty

A C C

A C C

A C C
Sivlft'i Church tf England Man.

Dlftlnflion, dignity, rank.
There is fuch a peculiarity in Homer's manner
of apostrophizing Eumaus: it is generally applied,

Acco'roinclv. aJ'v. [from accon/.] A-

by that poet, only to men v^ account and diftinc-

party more than the other, according as he thinks
they bell piomotc the good of church and ftate.

J

.

Pope's OdylTey;

ti'on.

greeably, faitably, conformably.
As the a'Sions ot men are of fundry diilmft

lue of a thing equal to what it was ac-

Ho'.kcr, b.i.
tinguiihed.
Sirrib, thou'rt faid to have a ftubborn fouf.
That apprehends no fuit'ier than this world;

counted.
Confidering the ufual motives of human aflions,

Shakilp. Mcufurefor Meaj.

thence, figuratively, regard; confideraIf he hath wronged thee, or
put that on my account,

To

Paraa. Reg,

Attcrbury.
very fitly introduced.
Thele tribunes kindled great dilTenfions between
the nobles and the commons, on the account of Co-

Aod, with a loving force, to Phencus brought.
Dryd. j'Ene'td.

Acco'sTABLE. <i<^'. [from flffo/?.] Eafyof
Not in ufe.
familiar.
accefs

nobleman, wh^m the latter had imStvifi's Conlcfti in Athens and Rome,
Nothing can recommend itfelf to our love, on
any other account, but either as it promotes our

riolanus, a

They were both indubitable, ftron^-, and highminded men, yet of fwect and accnjiahU nature,
almod equally del ghting in theprefsand affluence

Sempronius gives 00 thanks on this account,

changed

to account.
a

regifter of facts relating to money.
At many tJm^s I brought in m^ a.aui.tj^
Laid them before you ; you would threw them off,
And fay you found them in mine honefly.
Shakcfp. Timcn.
When my young mader has once got the ikill
of keeping accounti (which is a bulincfs of rear>n

more than arithmetic) i>erhaps it will not be amlfs,
that his father frj;n thenceforth require him to do
it in all his concernments.

;

as, the acccunt ftands thus between us.
Behoid this have 1 fnund, faith the Preacher,
counting or.e by one, to Bnd out the acatint.
EcclefipJIkus, vii. 17.

3.

Such a ftateofperfons or things, as may
make them more or lefs worthy of being
confidered in the reckoning. Value, or
ellimation.
For the care

that they toik for their wives and

their children, their brethren and kinsfolks, was

in leafl iictuni with them : but the greatell and
principal fear was fur the holy temple.
z Maccah. xv, 1 1.
That good affcAion, which things of fm.Tller arttutt have once fet on work, is by fo much the
Hocker, h. v. ^ 35.
more calily raifed higher.
1 fliould make more account of their judgment,
who arc rnen of fenfe, and yet have never touched

a pencil, than of the opinion given by the grcatcO
part of painters.

J.

A narrative, relation

Dryden^t D.'ijrrfr.

4. Profit ; advantage ; to /«r« to account
is to produce advantage.
We wouiJ eftablifl) our fouls in fuch a folid and
fubftintial virtue, as will turn to aacuni in that
great day, when it mull Hand the tc!l of infinite
wifdom and juflicc.
Add, Sji{l, N^ 399.

;

in

this

ufe

The

calendar months are likewlfe arbitrarily
fettled by the fame power; by
which months we, to this day, account, and they
meafure and make up, that which we call the Ju-

tion given to a perfon in authority.

What need we fejr who knows it, when none
can call our power f) accour.t ?

To give an account, to aflign the caufes
in which fenfe it is followed by the particle /t/r.
If any one (hould a(k, why our general continued fo eafy to the lad ? I know no other way to
account for it, but by that unmeafurable love of

wealth, which his bell friends allow to be his pre-

3

Swift,
dominant paffion.
To make up the reckoning ; to anfwer

withyir.
Then thou flialt fee him plung'd, when lead he
fears.

At once accounting for his deep arrears.
Vryd. fu-u. Sat. xiii.

They have no uneafy prefages of a future reckoning, wherein the pleafures they now talle mud be
accounted for; and

may, perhaps, he outweighed

by the pains which fliall tiien lay hold of them.
Alteibury's SermoK',

'

Shitkefpiare'i Macbeth,

The true ground of morality tan only be tlie
will and law of a Cod who fris men in the dark,

Holder on Time.

lian year.

it

The relation and reafons of a tranfac-

Chrtin.

-

•

and unequally

onto a certain king, which would take acccuni of
his fervants ; and when he had begun to reckon,
one was brought unto him, which owed him ten
thoufand talents.
Matt, xix. 23, 24.

10.

Clarendon,

with of.

ToAcco'uNT. 1/. a.
1. To reckon.

2.

a tale, a narration.
The review or examination of an affair
J.
taken by authority ; as, the magiftrate
took an account ot the tumult.
Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened

;

was nothing accounted of in the days of

Silver

Solomon.

may feem to be derived from cenie, f i

Lacke on Educ.

The ftate or refult of a computation

To hold in efteem

j^'dJifontCato,

accomft, from computui, Lat. it was originally written accimpt, which fee ; but,
by gradually foftening the pronuncia-

with the parti-

counted to his own I'ervice.

4.

Rogers, Sermon v.

pinefs.

yf^atsn.

;

cle to.
For fome years really accrued the yearly fum of
two hundred thoufand pounds to the king's cofi'er* :
and it was, in truth, the only projcdl that was ac-

prefent, or is a means to alTurc to us a future Iiap-

ACCO'UNT. n. f. [ftom the old French

2.

Bronvn's Vulgar Errours,

To affign to, as a debt

3.

peached.

;

De/it.

Neither the motion of the moon, whereby
months are computed, nor the fun, whereby years
are accounted, conCfteth of who'e numbeis.

Philemon, i. S,

The afTertion is cur Saviour's, though uttered
by him in the perfon of Abraham the father of the
faithful; who, on the <rri rant of that charafler, is

I fu'd, I (ought,

;

That alfo was accounted a land of giants.

In matters vvlierc his judgment led him to op-

Sbakfj'ftare'l Tvjelfth Night.

A computation of debts or expences

To reckon, to compute.

pofe men on a public acccunt, he would do it vigo.
jitierhury's Seimoia.
roufly and heartily.

At length, ciiUcaing ail his ferpent wiles,
Witii foothmg words renew d, him thus accoSs.

.1.

2.

oweth thee aught,

can come into the account .>f recreation, that is not
Liciecn Education, ^ 197.
done with delight.

:

tion, in time the orthography

To efteem, to think, to hold in opinion.

This mull be always remembered, that liothiiig

fpcik to firft ; to addrefs ; to falute,
Vou millake. knight a.-ct/? her, front her,
board her, woo her, alTail her.

of d'pendents and fultors.

1

lion ; fake.

their future; fot bread will give them the cholit.
Arbutbnor en AHmcnts.

him :

To Acco'uNT. -v, a. [See ACCOUNT.]

and

ed upon any particular peribn ;

to live acccjdinglyt fliall be laved.
TilUtfon's Prifacc.
Mealy fubftances, fermented, turn four. Aicordinglj, given to a weak child, they dill retain

I firft aca^-d

A reckoning referred to, or fum charg-

.

of fcrirture, as to believe ths doSriae of it, and

\accofttr, Fr.]

Swift.

in any of the three.

Whoever is fo aflTuted of the authuricy and f:nk

a.

Addifon,

14. In law.
Account is, in the common law, taken for a writ
or adion brought againft araan, that, by means of
office or bufincl's undertaken, is to render an <ifccunt unto anothe'r ; as a bailiff toward hismiiftcr,
C-tvcf,
a guardian to his ward.

which are pleafure, profit, and ambition, I cannot
yet comprehend howthofe pcrfons find theirarroir:;

And ftjuar'U thy life accord n^fy.

-v.

of right reafon, to give credit to this billory.

*.'«.

A reckoning verified by finding the va-

.

kinds, fo the laws thereof -oiuft accori'wg'.y be dif-

To ACCO'ST.

had the fame reafon to believe the hiftoryof our
Saviour, as that of any other perfon to which they
themfelves were not aftually cye-witneffcs, they
were bound, by all the rules of hiftorical faith, and

4.

To appear as the medium, by which
any thing may be explained.

has in his hands rewards and punilhments, and
power enough to call to account the proudell offenLccki,
der.

Such as have a faulty circulation through the
lungs, ought to eat very little at a time; becaufe
the increafe of the quantity of frelh chyle mtill

11. Explanation; aflignment of caufes.
It is eafy to give account, how it comes to pafs,
that though all men defire bappinefs, yet their wills

make that circulation Hill more uneafy ; which.

carry them fo contrarily.

Locke,

Indeed, is the cafe of confumptivc and fome afihmatic perfon', and accounts for the fymptoms they
are troubled with after eating.

It being, in our author's arroonr, a right acquired

Arbuthnot on Aliment!.

by begetting, to rule over thofc he had begotten, it

Acco'uNTABLE. «<^'. [from «CfO«»/.] Of
whom an account may be required who

Wis not

power poflible to be inherited, becaufe
the right, being confequcnt to, and built on, an aft
perfedlly perfonal, made that power fo too, and
impoHible til be inherited.
Locke,

iz.

a

An opinion previoufly eftablinied.
Thefc were detigned to join with the forces at

fra, there being prepared a number of fiat-bo!tomed

boats to tranfport the land forces under the wing
of the great navy : for they made no account, but
that the navy Hiould be abfolutely mafter of the

Baccn't Conftdcrations on War luiib Spain,
prodigal young fellow, that had fold his
clothes, upon the fight of a fwallow, made account
fcas.

A

that fummerwas at band, and away went liis fliirt
too.

13.

L'Efirange, Fab, cxxvii.

The reafons of any thing colleftcd.
Being convinced, upon

all

account!) that tbey

;

mult anfwer for : followed by the particle te before the perfon, and_/ir before
the t'hing.
Accountable to none.

But to my confciencc and my God alone.
Oldham,

Thinking themfelves excufed from (landing
upon their own legs, or being accountable for their
own condufl, they very feldom trouble themfelves
Locke on Education,
with enquiricf^,
The good magiftrate will make no diftinftion ;
fir the judgment is God's; and he will look upon
himfelf as accountable at bis bar for the equity of
Attcrbury's Sermons,

it,

Accot/'Nt ANT,<ti^'. [ftom account.} Ac-

Dz

countable

A C C
countable to; refponfible

for.

Not

in

A C C

a£l of ^rmving to another, fo ai to in-

lie at the table, according to the ancient

creafe it.

His offence is To, as it appurs
jtcamnttnt n the law upon tiiat pain.

do nourifli ; inanimate bodies do not
they have an accretion, but no alimentation.
Bac.ns Am. Hft. N" 6c2.
The charges feem to be eftcdcd by the exhaling
of the mo'fture, which may leave the tinging corpufcles more denl'e, and fomcihing augmented by
the accretion of the oily and earthy parts of that

Not out oribfolute lull (though, peradventure,
J ftand acccuntant for as great a Tin)

But partly led to diet iry revenge.

ANT.]

A computer

;

[See Accompta man fciUcd or

employed in accounts.
The different compute ef divers dates ; thefliort
and irieconcilcable years of fome ; the exceeding
crrour in the natural frame of others ; and the
falfc deduAiona of ordinary orrwnr^nfi in molt.
Brown^s Vulgar Erroun,

Acco'uNT-BOOK. »./

1 would endeavour to comfort

myfelf upon the
upon the lofs of money ;
by turning to my account-book, and feeing whether
I have enough left for ray fupport.
Sivifl.
as I do

\r\

To ACCU'MULATE. f a. [from accumule, LaM] I'o heap one thing upon another ; to pile up, to heap together. It
.

ufed either literally, as, to accumulate
or figuratively, as, to accumu;
late merit or wickednefs.
If thou doft (lander her, and torture me,
Never pray more ; abandon all rcmorfc;

accretion,

is

money

Accre'tive. adj .[ftomaccretion.] Growing ; that which by growth is added.
if the motion be very (low, we perceive it not
we have no fenfe of the accreiite motion of plants
:

On horrors head horrors accumulate

For nothing canft thou to damnation add.

more but that it is gone.

Crulht by imaginary treafons weight.
Which too much merit did accumulate.

Sbakejp. Otbttto.

Glanville's Scepjis.

To ACCRO'ACH. -v. a. [accrocher, Fr.]
To draw to one as with a hook ; to gripe
to draw away by degrees what is ano-

•

his fpiritual eftatej which, without frequent af(luitiing), he will hardly be able to prevent.

join,

To accede to, to be added to

couple.

He fent a folemn embaflage to treat a peace
and league with the king; accoupimg it with an

2.

But that fame /roward twain vouM accouragi.

And of her plenty add unto her need.

Let the evidence of fuch a particular miracle be
never fo bright and clear, yet it is ftill but particular ; and muft therefore want that kind of force,
that degree of influence, which accrues to a landing general proof, from its having been tried or
approved, and confented to, by men of all ranks
and capacities, of all tempers and interefis, of all
Atterhury^s Sermons.
ages and nations.

Fairy Sluten, i. ii. c. 2.

To Acco'uRT. -v. a. [See To COURT.]

To entertain with courtfhip, or courtefy
a word now not in ufe.

Who all this while were at their wanton reft,
.^ccourting each her friend with lavirti feaft.

Fairy f^een.

3.

To append to, orarife from
confequence ;

To drefs, to equip.

2.

:

By the regular returns of it in fome people, and
it after the morbid matter it
looks as there were regular accumulations and gatherings of it, as of other humours in the body.
Arhutbnot on Diet,

exhaufted,

1.

2.

Acco'vrKEMEitT.ft./,[acecu/remeat,'Fr.]
Drefs, equipage, furniture relating to
the perfon ; trappings, ornaments.

4.

for all tlie accidental,

of it; with which, infteid of
adorning religirm, they have ftrangelj difguifed it,
and quite ftifled it in the crowd of external rites
and ceremonies.
Tillotfin, Sermon xxviii.
I have feen the pope officiate at St^ Peter's,
where, for two hours tog':ther, he was bufied in
putting .in or off his different accoulrmntt, according to die different parts he was to aft in them.
AeUlfon, Sfeaaii-T, N" 201.
How gay with all th' accoulrcmenis of war.
The Britons come, with gold well-fraught thev
come.
p/,i/,

Government of tbe Tongue*

fcrcr.

;

heaper together.
Injuries may fall upon the

paflive

man, yet,

without revenge, there would be no broils and
quarrels, the great accumulators and multipliers of
injuries.
Decay of Piety,

as, an ill

aftnefs, nicety.
This perfcil artifice and accuracy might have
been omitted, and yet they have made (hift to
Mort,
move.
Quicknefs of imagination is feen in the invention, fertility in the fancy, and tbe accuracy in
Drydtx,
the exprelfiun.
The man who hath the ftupid ignorance, or
to infult the revealed will of
hardened effrontery

In a commercial fenfe, to be produced,
or arife ; as, profits.

I

God ; or the petulant conceit to turn it into ridicule ; or the arrogance to make his own per-

Carcw^s Surv.

The great profits which have accrued to the duke
of Florence from his free port, have fet feveral of
the ftates of Italy on the fame fubjeft.

accoutrctncnrs

feiltions the mcalure of the Divinity ; or, at beft,
that can collate a text, or quote an authority,
with an infipid accuracy ; or demonftrate a plain

Addifon on Italy.

To follow, as lofs

own pofitive ill, but

A'ccuRACY. »./. [accuratio,'L2.t.] Ex-

pounds.

5.

its

which it caufes in the fuf-

Accumula'tor. tt.f. [from accumulate.]
a gatherer or
He that accumulates

accruetb to hermajefty, amounteth to one thoufand

Sbair/fearc's Merry If^mcs of lyinjfor.
Chtiftianity is loft among them in the trappings

That which accumulates.
That which is accumulated.
anfwcrable not only for

The yearly benefit that, out of thofe his works,

I profefs requital to a hair's breadth ; not ojjly
in tht finr.plc office of love, but in all the accc-iiremetst, complement, and ceremony of it.

[from accumu-

If the injury meet not with meeknefs, it then
acquires another accumulative guilt, and (Unds

"became one of the authors ; choofing a certain benefit, before the hazard that might accrue from
the difrefpefts of ignorant pcrfons.
Wilkins.

Dryden.

aJj.

late.]

culars, folikewifeinthis, did juftlyoppofcThim, and

And made the May-game of the public fpleen ?

it

Accumula'tive.

His fcholar Arlftotle, as in many other parti-

For this, in rags accculred are they feen.

The ftate of being accumulated.
their freedom from

this fenfe feems to be lefs

proper.

Is it for this th«y ftujy ? to grow pale.

And niifs the plealurcs of a glorious meal f

and

an aciumulatiin of benefits, like a kind of embroidering, or lifting of one favour upon anotlier.

To be added, as an advantage or im-

From which compaft there ariling an obligation
upon every one, fo to convey his meaning, there
accrues alfo a right to every one, by the fame (igns,
to judge of the fenfe or meaning of the perfon fo
Souths Sermons.
obliged to exprefs himfelf.

When they would ftrive due reafon to exceed

laccouirer, Fr.]

Sbakefpearis Antony and Cleopatra^
Some, perhaps, might othcrwife wonder at fuch

as, a

more frequently ufed by later authors.

See

That forward pair ihe ever would alTuage,

To ACCOTTTRE. t,. a,

;

provement, in a fenfe inclining to good
rather than ill ; in which meaning it is

Bacon's HcirjWl.

Acco'uRACE. f. a. [Ofafolete.
Courage.] To animate.

One of my place in Syria, his lieutenant.
For quick accumulation of renown.

Hooker, h. v. § 54.

article in the nature of a requeft.

Tfl

The aft of accumulating.

natural produftion or efFeft, witliout any

We now nfe

to link together.

[from accumu-

Which he atchiev'd by th' minute, loft his favour.

particular refpeft to good or ill.
The Son of God, by his incarnation, hath
changed the manner of that perfonal fubfiftence ;
no alteration thereby accruing to the natu re of God

Sourb*t Sermons*

tt.f.

late.]
1

To ACCRU'E. "J. n. [from the participle
accru, formed from «f<Tc;/n», Fr.]

To Acco'uPLE. -v. a. [accoufler, Fr.] To

Sir yobn Denbam*

Accumula'tion,

ther's.

1.

;

and animals : and the fly fliadow fteals away upon
the dial; and the quickelt eye can difcover no

Acco'dnting. n.f. [from account.] The Accro'achment. tt.f. [ftom accroach.l
aft of reckoning, or making up of acDiS.
The aft of accroaching.
counts.
This method faithfully obfenrcd, muft keep a
man from breaking, or running behind-hand in

Lat.]

Leaning.
The Roman recumbent, or, more properly, ac-

Arhuthnot or Aliments.

A book Contain-

ing accounts.
lofs of friends,

tity of aliment confumcd

\_accumbeni,

adj.

cumieni poftute in eating, was Introduced alter the
Arhutbnot on Cans.
fird Punic wjr.

Nrwt'jn^s Ofttict,
moifture.
Infants fupport abftinence worft, from the quan-

Sbaifffeari'i Othtlls.

Acco'uNTANT. n. /.

Accu'mbent.

Plants

Stakrff,. Mtaf.fvMiaf.

Di3.

maimer.

ul'e.

I love her too,

•

A C C

;

ptopofition, in

a vitious ufe.

all

formality; thefe

Accuba'tion. n.f. [from «cfa*o, to lie
thors.
down to, Lat.] The ancient pofture of A'CCURATE. adj,
It will appear, that aecukati^n, or lying down at
meals, was a gefture ufcd by very many nations.

Brcion^s yul^ar Errotirs,

ACCRETION. »./ [accreii,, Lit.] The T» Accu'.UD. 11. «. [<j«»«^o, Lat.] To

are the

Wc

the government, until it comes to take root in the
nation.
Temp/e's Mifc.

leaning at meals.

now

Dclatrj,
only men worth mentioning.
confider the uniformity of the whole defign, accuracy of the calculations, and (kill in reftoring and comparing paO'ages of ancient au-

The benefit or lofs of fuch a trade accruing to

Arhutbnot on Coins^

[accuratus. Lat.]

Exaft, as oppofcd to negligence or ignorance, applied to pcrlbns.
2. Exaft, without defeat or failure, ap1

plied to things.

No

No m«n living has made more aeewau tri-

competent judge, in order to infli£l fome

than Reaumurc, that brighteft ornament of
France.
Oljon.
als

3.

Thole conceive the celef^ial bodies have more
accurate influences upon thefe things below, than
indeed they have but in grof..

Bacon,

A'ccuRATELV. Wi'. \_{Tom accurate.'^ In
exaifily,

without

errour, nicely.
Tlie fine ot' incidence is either accurately, or
very nearly, in a given ratio to the fine of refraction.
Ncwiii:.
That all thefe didances, motions, and quanihould be fo accurately and
tities of matter,
harmonioufly adjufted in this great variety of cur
fyllem, is above the fortuitous hitsof blind matrriul
caufes, and mufl certainly flow from that eterna.
fountain of wifdom.
Bctttlry.

A'ccuR ATENESS. 11./.

Parergon.

Touching the king's fines accufiomahly paid for
the purchafing of writs original, I find no certain
beginning of them, and do therefore think that
they grew up with the chancery.
Bacon's Alienatien*

a<?Jr'.

tion of the noun, on which the adlion
implied in the verb terminates.
Accu'sATORY. adj. [from accii/i.'\ That
which produceth or containeth an accu-

tiie

In a charge of adultery, the accufer ought to
fet forth, in the accu/atory libel,

1.

Accu'rsed. fart. adj.
1,

That which

is

curled or

doomed

to

mifery.

Drvbam.
2.

That which

deferves the curfe ; exhateful ; detcKable ; and, by

ecrable ;
confequence, wicked ; malignant.

A fwift blefling
Under a hand accurt'd !

Dryrlrn.

Accu'sABLE. adj. [fromtlie verb aecuji.]
That which may be cenfured ; blameable ; culpable.
There would be a manifed defeat, and Nature's
-,

it

animals,

fo

fubjc^ unto difeafes from bilious caales, ihould
want a proper conveyance for chnler.
Sroivii'i Vulgar Errourt.

Accdsa'tiok. n./. [(rom accu/e.']
1. The aft of accufing.
Ihus they in mutual accujatioti fpent

The fruidefi hours, but neither felf- condemning.
And of their vain contcft appear'd no end. M'lli'^n,
2. The charge brought againft any one
by the accufer.
You read
Thefe acrufaihns, and thefe grievous crimes
Committul by your perfoo, and your followers.
Hhakefpeare.

Ail accujatiiti, in the very nature of the thing,
Aiil fuppofing, and being founded upon fome law
frr where there is no law, there can be no tinnfgreflion ; and where there can be no tranfgrefiijn,
1 am furc there ought to be no accufatien.
South,

the fenfe of the courts.]

jation of ibme

happen to be neither, you mutt lay it upon the rats,
or a llrange greyhound.
Sviift,

To blame or cenfure, in oppofition to
applaufe or jullification.
bearing witnefs, anJ their
thoughts the mean while accujing or elfe exculing
one another.
Rem. ii. i 5.
Your valour would your floth too much accujc,
And therefore, like the;jfelves, they princes choofe.
VrydttCi Tyravrick Love.
'I'heir

CDnfcieiiCe

[from accuji,']

n. /.

have known her continue in this a quarSbakefj^earis Macbeth.
n,/. [As not only fignified a piece

hands

brings a charge againft another.
There are fome perfons forbidden to be accuftrs,

A decla-

crime preferred before a

:

1

ter of an hour.

AcE.
of money, but any integer, from whence
is derived the word ace, or unit.
Thus
Aj fignified the whole inheritance. Arhuthnot on Coins, ]

An unit; a fmgle point on cards or

I.

dice.

When lots are (huffled together in a lap, urn, ot
pitcher; or if a man bit.ijfold carts a die, what
reafon in the world can he have to prefume, that
he rtiall draw a white ftone rather than a black, or
throw an ace rather than a fife ?
South.

He that
I.

A fmall quantity; a particle; an atom.
He will ni>t bate an ace of abfolute certainty;
but however doubtful or improbable the thing is,

on the fcore of their fex, as women ; others, of
their age, as pupils and infants ; others, Ujmn the
account of fome crimes committed by them
and
others, on the fcore of fome filthy lucre they propofe to gain thereby
others, on the fcore of their

coming from him it muft go for an indifputable
Government of the Tongue.
not wag an ace farther ; the whole world
fiiall not bribe me to it.
Dryden^s Spanijh Friar..
truth.
I'll

Ac e'p H A LOUS .rJ(^'. [axi^aX®-, Gr.jWith-

others, through a fufpicion of calumny, as having

out a head.

once already given falfe evidence ; and, lailly,
others on account of their poverty, as not being
worth more than fifty aurei,
Ayliffci Parcrgon,
—That good man, who dracic the pois'nous

Ace'rb. adj.

Diff.

Acid, with
an addition of roughnefs, as moft fruits
[aceriiis, hat.']

are before they are ripe.

Ace'rbity. n.f.

draught,

improvition were juftly accufai/e

—

j

ttccurjiy

Againll the g >ds immortal hated nurO.

3.

cuflomed atflion with her, to feem thus wafhing her

conditions, 3i libertines againli their patrons ; and

Sbakr'peare^t Machetb.

The chief part of tiie mifc,-y of wicked men,
and thofe accurfed fpiritn, the devi's, is this, that
they are of a difpofition contrary to God. Titiotjvn.
They, like the feed from which they (prung,

[Ill

Addijon.

;

May foon rettirn to this our luffcring country,

Clcaveland.

which may (zzai to be the ill confequenccs of their

Accv'sER.

•Tis the moft certain fign the world's accurfi.
That the bed things corrupted are and word.

to public view.

Accu'sTOM AR Y. adj.

[from accu/}om.'\
Ufual, praftifed ; according to cuftom.
Accu'sTOMED. adj. [from accujiom.'\ According to cuftom ; frequent ; ufual.
Look how Jhe rubs her hands. Ic is an ac~

Never ftrnd up a k*g of a fowl at fupper, while
there is a cat or dog in the houfe, that can be accused f,.r run.iing away with it : But, if there

3.

Go on, rhetorick, and expofe the peculiar eminency which you accufltmarily marflial before logic

It fometimes admits the particle_/or.

2.

In a cuftomary

manner ; according to common or cuftomary praftice.

The profcfibrs are accufcd cfM the ill prafljccs

As if it were an unlucky comet, or as if God

Accu'sTOM ARiLY. Wi;.

It requires

principles.

any one.

towards him.
Htj'.kcr.
When Hildebrand accurfed and cart down from
IV.
were
none
there
fo hardy as
his throne Henry
Sir Walter Raliigh'i E£'ays.
to defend their lord.

Through accufiomance and negligence, and perhaps fome other caufes, we neither feel it in our
own bodies, nor take notice of it in others. Boyle.

[accu/o, Lat]

To charge with a crime.

the particle 0/ before the fubjedl of accufation.
He ftripp'd the bears-foot of its leafy growth j
And, calling wcftcrn winds, accused the fpring of
floth.
Drydeni Virgil,

N^nvton.

had fa accurjtd it, that it ihould never ihine to
give light in things concerning our duty any way

Cuftom, habit, ufe.

Ayl'iffe.

To ACCU'SE. -v. a.

had nut determined the diamefu£cient accurater^fs, I re-

To Accv'rse. 'V. a. [See Curse.] To
doom to mifery ; to invoke mifery upon

fome certain and

definite t'mc.

[itOBX occuraie.]

experiment.

Accu'sTOMANCE. tt.f. \accoutumance, Fr.J

fation.

ter of the fphtrc with

peated

According to

cuftom.

Accu'sATiVE.
[accuj'atii'us, La.t.] A
term of grammar, fignifying the rela-

Exaftnefs, nicety.
But I'cmetimc after, fufpefting that in making
this obfervation 1

AcCu'sTOMABLY. adv.

judgment on the guilty perfon.
Ayliff'e^s

Detern^iate ; precifely fixed.

an accurate manner ;

ACE

A C C

A C C

With mind ferene, and could not wifli to fee
His vile accufer drank as deep as he.

1.

Drydcn.

If the perfon accufed maketh his innocence
plainly to appear upon his trial, the accufer is im-

mediately put to an ignominious death J and, out
of his goods and lands, the innocent perfon is
quadruply recompenfed.
Guirrvers Travels,

To ACCU'STOM. t/. a. [acautumer, Fr.J

2.

A rough four tafte.
Applied to men,^lharpncfs of temper j
feverity.

True it is, that the talents for criticifm, namely,
fmartnefs, quick cenfure, vivacity of remark, indeed all but acerbity, fccm rather the gifts of youth
than of old a^ic.
Pope.

To habituate, to enure, with the par- To ACE'RVATE.
To heap up.
It is ufed chiefly of perfons.
How fhali we breathe in other air

Lefs pure, accufiivt'd to immortal fruits ? Milton.
It iias been fome advantage to accuflitn one's
felf 10 books of the fame edition.
fVatts's Itnfrmemnt of the Mind-

any thing.

To be wont to do

Obfolete.

A boat over-freighted funk, and all drowned,
fav'ng one

woman, that in her

firft

pepping up

again, which moft living things accuficjm, got holj

of the boat.

a.

or

habit j

[acervo, Lat.]

aft of heaping together.

Ace'rvose. adj. Full of heaps.

Diil.

AcE'iCENT. adj.

That

[ace/cetts,

habitual,

Animjls even of the fame original, extraftion,
and fpecies, may be divcrufied by accufiomabk reHdeiicc Ul one clitnacc, from what they are in another.
Halt i Origin of Mankind.

Lat.]

which has a tendency to fournefs or aci>
dity.

The fame perfons, perhaps, had enjoyed their
health as well with a mixture of animal dirt, qualified

with a fufticicnt quantity of acefccnts^ as^

bread, vinegar, and fermented liquors.

Corciv,

Acco'sTOMAELE. adj. [from accujfom.l

Of long cuftom
cuftomary.

i-.

Dia.
AtERVA'TI0^J. n.f. [from acer'vate.'\ The

ticle to.

To Acc'oSTOM. 11. /r.

^incy,

[acerbitas, Lat.]

Arbutbnot on Aliments.

AcETo'sE. ai^'. That which has in it any
Di^.
thing four.
AcETo'siTY. n.f. [from acito/e,] The
ftate

of being acctoie, or of containing

Di^.

fournefs.

Ace'tous.

adj.

[from

actttim, vinegar,

Lat.]

A C H
Lat.]

A C K

Having the quality of vinegar

A'CID. at/J. [adJus, Lat. aciJt, Fr.] Sour,
{harp.
Wild trees laft longer than garden trees; and
In the fame kind, thole whofe fruit Is acij, mote
than thafe whofe fruit is fweet.
Baton's Natural Uifi'.ry.
jlcid, or four, prnceedj from a fait of the fame

grateful, campa(ri >nate and hard-hearCed ; but, at

four.
RiiuDS, which confid chiefly of the juice of
gripet, infpinated in the ikies or hulka by the
avoljcion of the fupeifluouimoiflure through their
pores, being dillillol in a retort, did not affurd
any vinous, but rather an acfteus fpirit.
Boyte*

Ache. n./.

[ac*. Sax. ax®'» G""- "O*^ ge-

hath in it any particles of this kind, is by mixing it with fyrup of violets, when it will turn ot
a led colour; but if it contains alkaline or lixivia!

A coming fliow'r your (hooting corns prelate,
Old acbci will throb, your hollow tooth will ra^e.

particles, it changes that fyrup green.

Aci'dity. n.f. [fromaaV.] The quality

To Ache, i: n, [See Ache.] To be in

of being acid ; an acid tafte ; iharpnefs ;
fournefs.
Filhes, by the help of a dilTolvent liquor, corrode and reduce thei?~meat, (kin, bones, and all,
into a chylus or cremor ; and yet this liquor manifc'.s nothing of acidity to ihe tafte.
R.y.
When the tafte of tlie mouth is bitter, it is a
fign of a redundance of a bilious alkali, and demands a quite dilTerent diet from the cafe of aci-

and

fpert by any extraordinary intention, and our very

eyes will actt, if long fixed upon any difficultly
difcerned object.
GlanviUc.

to finiQi

Fr.

to

a defign pro-

fpcroufly.

Our toils, my friends, are crown'd with furc fuccefs I

The greater parf perform'd, acb'uve the lefs. Dryd*
2.

Medicinal

he

and limpid, become thick and turbid, and
are impregnated with fulphur and other minerals, as long as the earthquake lafts.
fVcfodward^ s Natural H'jiory
frelh,

To Aci'dulate.

A

viftory is twice itfclf, when the achk-ver
brings home full numbers.
Sbaktfpeari: Much ado about Nctbing.

The efcutcheon, or

To

Immortal, be the bus'nefs of my

1.

j

Dr^iUti.

derived
from achienje, as it figiiifies to perform ;
in the fecond, from achieve, as it imfenfe,

ports to gain.

A'cHiNG. n.f.

[(torn acbe.'\

2.

Pain; un-

eafinefs.

When old age comes to wait upon a great and
worlhipful fmncr, it comes atiended with many
South.
painful girdi and acbingt, called the gout.

A'CHOR. n.f. \ach6r, Lat. ix^^j, Gx.furfpccies of the herpes ; it appears
fur.^

\

with a crully fcab, which caufc'- an itching on the furface of the head, occafioned by a fait Iharp ferum oozing
^lincy.
through the fkin.

Uocier,

Confeflion of a fault.
4. Confeflion of a benefit received ; gra3.

titude.

Aft of atteflation to any conceflion ;
fuch as homage.
i'hcre be many wide countries in Ireland, in

5

which the laws of England were never eftablilhed,
nor any acknonvhdgment of fubjcdlion made.
apenjcr's State ef Ireland,

6.

Something given or done in confeflion
of a benefit received.
The fecond is an aeknototedgtntnt to his majefty for the leave of fi(hing upon his coafts ;

and
though this may not be grounded upon any treaty,
yet, if it appear to be an ancient right on our fide,
and cuftom on theirs, not determined or cxtingui(hed by any treaty between us, it may with

juftice be iniifted on.

lemflt's Mij'ccilanics,

J'CME. n.f. [i.,,,.,.,GT.'\ The height of
any thing ; more efpecially ufed to
denote the height of a diftcmper, which
is divided into four periods,
i. The
arche,

the

beginning

or

attack.

firft

Acme, the
height. And, 4. Paracme, which is the
declenfion of the diftemper.
i^iney.
Aco'i.OTHisT. n.f [azo^^fSiw, Gr.] One
of the lowelt order in the Romifti church,
whofe office is to prepare the elements
2. Anahafis,

the growth.

3.

for the offices, to light the church, Wr.
it is duty, according to the papal law, when
the Vi(hop rii-igs mafs, to order all the inferior

clergy to appear in their proper hab'.ts ; and to Lc
that all the offices of the church he rightly per-

formed J to ordain the atolothiji, to keep the facred
velfels.

in

a particular cha-

(in is

I

Ayi.fe's Parirgon.

A'coLYTE. n.f. The fame with AcoLO-

To confefs
For

3.

any pofl-

To own the knowledge of; to own any

THIST.

In placcof lord Baffanioard niylelf.
Sbaiijftare.
None tliat ackno^ckdge God, or providence.
Their fouls eternity did ever duubt.
Davits.

is

truth of

thing or perfon

My people do already known my miiid.
And will acknowledge you and JilTica,

With arms rcvers'd, th' atbicv^ments of the for.
firft

[a word

racler.

And in thy fame, the dufJy fpoils among,
High on the burniih'd roof, my banner (hall be
hung;
Rank'd with my champion's bucklers, and below,

Achie-vemeiitj in the

ACKNO'^VLEDGR. -v. a.

formed, .is it feems, between the Latin
and Englifh, from cgnofco, and knoitiledge, which is deduced from the Saxon
cnapan, to kno'w.'\

enfigns armorial,

life

[acidukr, Fr.]

A

Fairy ij^tf/rcff.

granted to any man for the performance
of great aflions.
Then (hall the war, and ftern debate, and ftrife

a.

flight degree.
diet of frelh unfaltcd things, watery liquors
ac'dulatidf farinaceous emollient fubftances, four
milk, butter, and acid fruits.
Arhuthnot on Aliments.

Achi'evement. »./. [ackevement, Fr.^
1. The performance of an adion.

2.

n).

To impregnate or tinge with acids in a

that obtains what he endeavours after.

From every coaft that heaven walks about.
Have thither come the noble martial crc'-v,
That/amous hard achievements dill purfuc.

^incy.

The acidu/ar, or medical Iprings, emit a greater
quantity of their minerals than ufual ; and even
the ordinary fprings, which we-e before clear,

Witliin helUgates till now.
Miltcit,
Show all the fpoils by valiant kings achiev'J,
And groaning nations by their arms rcliev'd. Prior,
;

impregnated with

beate, and alum fprings are.

Shakifpeare.
Thou haft achieved our liberty, conlin'd

Achi'ever. »./. He that performs

fprings

ftiirp particles, as all the nitrous, chaly-

Experience is by induftry, fffi/fvV,
And perfeflcd by the fwift coui fe of time. Shakeff.
Tranio, 1 burn, I pine, 1 pcrilh, Tranio,
If 1 atblevt not this young modcH gi:l.

Conceflion of the

tion.
Immediately upon the acknowledgment of the
chriftian faith, the eunuch was baptized by Fhilip.

Arhuthnii on Alimtr.n.

dity or fournefs.

A'ciDNEss. »./ [fromof/V.] Thequality
of being acid; acidity. See Acid iry.
ACFDVLjE. n.f. [that is, aqua acitiuU.'\

To gain, to obtain.

2.

Sluircy.

SioJj't.

[achever,

carry us up to the unavoidable ackn&w..
ledgmnt of the Doitj- ; becaufe it carries every
thinking man to an original of every fucceffive individual.
Hall's Origin of Maniind,
caufcs,

manner. The common way of trying, whether any particular liquor

make thee roar
That beajts Oiall tremble at thy din. Shaiefpeare.

complete.]
1. To perform,

Conccffion of any charafter in another ; as, exiftence, fuperiority.
The due contemplation of the human nature
doth, by a necelTary cortnexion and chain of

1.

tafte in a (harp and piercing

Fill all thy bones with athes,

To ACHI'EVE. f. a.

.

ledge.]

Liquors and fubflances are called acidt, which
being compofed of pointed particles, aft'efl the

thee with oM cramps;

fcnfcs are dulled

Ac K N o'wL E O c M E N T n.f. [from acknoitt-

m

ner being preferved chiefly in poetry,
for the fake of the meafure.]
A continued pain. See Ake.

pain.
Upon this account, our

the bottom, fickle and fclf-intcrefted.
Drydcn's Vtrgil.

nature, without mixture of oil ; in aufterc taftes
tl>e oily parts have not difentangled thenifclvcs
from the falts and earthy puts ; luch i> the t.iftc
of unripe fruits.
Arhuthnot
Alimtrut.

nerally written ake, and in the plural
akes, of one fy liable; the primitive man-

I'll rack

A C O
He has diewn his hero acimoviledging aod OR*

;

neral.

as, a fault.

ackniKvltdgt

my ttanfgreffions

and my
fjalm li. 3.

ever before me.

;

To own ; as, a benefit ; fomctimes
with the particle to before the perfon
conferring the benefit.
His fpirit

Taught them; but they his
not.

gifts

Our land is from the rage of tygers freed.
Nor nourilhcs the lion's angry feed ;
Nor pois'nous aconite is here produc'd,
Or grows unknown, or is, »hcn known, refus'd.
Drjdtlh
Dcfpair, that aconite docs prove.

And certain death to others' iovc.
aeinowMg'd

Mihm.

In tbc'(irft place, therefore, I thankfully acinmvltdge to the Almighty power the alTiftar.cc he
his given me in the beginning, and the profecution of my prefent ftudies.
Dryder.

Ac KNo'wLE DOING, a.-lj. [from acknoiu.
ledge.] Grateful ;

ready to acknowledge

benefits received.

A Gallicifm, recon-

noiffant.

A'coN'iTE. n.f. [aeonitutn, Lat.] Properly
the herb wolfs-bane, but commonly ufed
in poetical language for poifon in ge-

That poifon never yet withftood.
Does nouri(h mine, and turns to blood.
Granville.

A'coRK. n, /. [jEcepn, Sax. from

ac, an

oak, and cojin, corn or grain ; that is,
the grain or fruit of the oak.] The feed
or fruit born by the oak.
Errour:., fuch as are but acorns in our younger
brows, grovi oaks in our older heads, and become

indexible.

Brtvi*.

4

Content

A C Q^

A C CL

keep one of my letters, and compare it with my
face ; for my face and letters are counterparts of
Sivift to Pcfe.
my heart.
A long noviciate of acquaintance ihould precede
Bolinghroke.
the vows of friendlhip.

Content with food which nature freely bredi

On wildings and on ftrawbcrries they fed

;

Cornels and bi amble-berries gave the reft,
And falling actiriu furnifli d out a feaft.
Dryjen^s 0-vid,
He that is nouriflied by the aeoms he picked up
apples
he
gathered
from the
under an oak, or the
trees in tiie wood, has ceruinly appropriated them
Lotit.

to himfelf.

A'cORNED. adj.\Jrom acorn.'] Storedwith
acorns.
Shahefp<rare.
Like a full acorn d boar>
Aco'usTi CKS. ».yl [AxbiT<*,of iieaw, Gr.

The doftrine or theory of founds.
Medicines to help the hearing, ^iney.

r.

To ACOyAl'NT.

[accointer, Fr.]

1/. a.

To make familiar with; applied either

1.

to perfons or things.
the objeft.

It has luith before

We that acquaint ourfelves laith ev'ry zone,
And pafs the cropicks, and behold each pole ;

When we come home, arc to ourfelves unknown,
And unacquainted ftill with our own foul.
Dalits.

There •uiilh thee, new welcome faint.
Like fortunes may her foul acouaint,

man can fpeak

Before a

Milton,

n any fubjeft,

it is

neceflary to be acjuainitd viitb it.

Locke on Education,
jlcauaint yourfelves luitb things ancient and
domeftic and
religious,
civil,
and
modern, natural,
national ; things of your own and foreign countries
and, above all, be well acfuainird viiih God and
yourfelve»; learn animal nature, and the workings
IVatti'i Lopck.

of your own fpirits.

To inform. With is more in ufe before

2.

4.

perfon with whom we are acquainted ; him of whom we have fome
knowledge, without the intimacy of

the objeft than of.
But for fome other reafonj, my grave Sir,
Which is not fit you know, I not ac-jLaint

this

fenfe, the plural is,

South.

which may be acquired or obtained ;
attainable.
Thofe rational inlUnfls, the connate principles
engraven in the human foul, though they are truths

authors, acquaintance, in others acquain-

acquirable and deducible by rational confequence

tances.

and argumentation, yet fcem to be infcribed in the
very crafis and textuie of the foul, antecedent to
any acquifition by induftry or the exercife of ths

His wand'ring peril clofcly did lament,

Ne in this new acquaintance could delight,

difcurfive faculty in man.

But her dear heart with anguilh did torment.
Fairy ^een.
That young men travel under fome tutor, I

HaWs Origin of Mankind.
If the powers of cogitation and volition, and
fenfation, are neither inherent in matter as fuch,
nor acquirable to matter by any motion or modification of it ; It necellarily follows, that they proceed from fome cogitative fubftance, fome incorporeal inhabitant within us, which we call fpirit

allow well, fo that he be fuch a one that may be
able to tell them what acquoinfancei they are to
fcek, what exercifes ordifcipline the place yieldeth.

Bacon.
This, my lord, has juftly acquired you as many
friends, as tlicre are perfons who have the honour
to be known to you ; mere acquaintance you have
none, you have drawn them all into a nearer line j
and they wiio have converfedwith you, are for ever
after inviolably yours.
Dryden.
fee he isadianied of his neareft acquaintances.

We

*
Bcylc againji B entity.
Acoyji'iNTZD. ac/J. [from acquaint.] Familiar, well known
not new.
Now call we our high court of parliament
;

That war or peace, or both at once may be
As tiungs acquainted and familiar to us. Shakeff.

Acqjj e'st. n.J. [acquejl, Fr. irotaacquerir,
written by fome acquift, with a view to
the woid acquire, or acquijiia.] Attach-

and fiul.

Bcntley.

To ACC^I'RE. v.

a.

[acqiierir, Fr. ac-

quiro, Lat.]

To gain by one's own labour or power

1

to obtain what is not received from nature, or tranfmitted by inheritance.
Better to leave undone, than by our deed
Acquire too high a fame, while he, we ferve, 'a
away.
Shakefp. Antony and Cleopatra,
2.
come to ; to attain.
Motion cannot be perceived without the perception of its terms, viz. the parts of fpacc which it
immediately left, and thofe which it next acquires.

To

Glan-ville^s Scepjis,

Acqv I'titD, farticip. adj. [irora acquire.]
Gained by one's felf, in oppofition to
thofe things which are beftowed by na-

New acquifls are moreburdea than Itrcngth.
Bacon.

ture.

Sheiefpe!tre\ T-wtlJtb Night.

Mud, repofed near the oRea of rivers, makes

friend in the cotintry acquaints nic, that two

We are feldom at eafe, and free enough from

continual additions to the land, thereby excluding
the fea, and preferving thefe (hells as trophies and
iyocdivard.

the f.)licitation of our natural or adopted defires
but a conftant fuccclfion of uneafintlfcs, out of
that ftock, which natural wants, or acquired habits,
have heaped up, take the will in their tuins.

[acquie/cer, Fr.

Locke,

figns of its new acquit and encroachments.

To ACOyi'ESCE.

The Bate of being acquainted with;

acqutejcere, Lat.]

It is applied
familiarity, knowledge.
as well to perfons as things, with the

fatisiied with,

particle "witb.
Nor was his arqaaintattce left w'ltb the famous
eoetsof hit age, than with the noblemen and ladies.

Others will, upon account of the receivednefs
of the propofed opinion, think it rather worthy to
b^ examined than acquifjctd in.
Boyle.
Nc.thcr a bare approbation of, nor a mere wishing, nor una^ive complacency in j nor, laftly, a
natural inclination to things virtuous and good,
can pafs before God for a man's willing of f'ucii

Dr,dc<i.

Our admiration of a famous man IclTens upon
our nearer acquaintance tcitb him ; and we feldon.
hear of a celebrated perfon, without a catalogue ol
iome DOtorioui weaknelTei and infirmitie*.

content.

t;.

n.

To reft in, or remain Acc^ui'rer. n.f. [from acquire.]

without oppofition or difIt has in before the objeft.

jiddifoti.

things i and, confcquently, if men, upon this account, will needs take up and acquitfce in an airy

Would we be admitted into an acquaintance v^ith
God, let ut ftudy to re.''emble him. We muft be

ungrounded perfuafion, tiial they will thafe things
which really they not will, tlicy fall thereby into a

partakers of a divine nature, in order to partake oi

grofs and fatal delufion.

He hath empl'yed his tranfcendentwifdom and

2. Familiar knowledge, fimply without a
prepofition.
Brave foldicr, pardon me.
That any accent breaking from mi^-tonguc.
Should 'Icape the true acquaintance of mine ear.

power, that by thefe he might make way for his
benignity, at the end wherein they ultimately acquiefce.
Creiv.

_

Accjuie'scence. n./. [from euqtii,/ce.]
1.

Sbaltejpejre.

This keept the underftanding long in convrrle with
ao objefl, and long converfe brings acquaintance.

particularly to fay.

Atierbury.

A flight or initial knowledge, fhort of

appeared any llgn of coutradiOion to that; but an
entire acquiejcace in all the hiihops thought tit tn
do.
Clarendon.

2.

Many indeed have ^ivcn over their purfuits after

fore I would cultivate an acquaintance i becanfe if

you do oot know mc when we meet, yon need only

their prefent enjoymcntj of it.

b'jpe

1

am pretty near feeing you, and there-

pofition to the gifts of nature.
Thele his acquirements, by induftry, were exceedingly both enriched and enlarged by many
excellent endowments of nature.
H^tyivard on Edivard VI,
By a content and acquiefcence in every fpeciea
of truth, we embrace the fhadow theicof; or fo

much as may palliate itsjuft and fubftantial <:eBrcrwn^s Vulgar Errours,

quirements.

down rules for the acquirement c.i a tafte.
The faculty muft, in fome
deg,ec, be born with us.
Addifon.
It is very difficult to lay

Acquisi'riON. n./,
1

\_acquiJilio,'LsX,]

The aft of acquiring or gaining.
Each man has but a limited right to the good
things of the world ; and the natural allowed way,
by "which he is to compafs the po/le(lion of tliefe
things,

is

by his own induftrious

acquifition

them.
2,

of

South.

The thing gained ; acquirement.
Great Sir, all acquifition

Of glory as of empire, here I lay before
Your royal feet.

Satisfaftion, reft, content.
fame,either from di f ippointmcnt,or from experience
of the little picalurc which attends it, or the better
informations or natural c-^ldn-rfs of old age; but
fi'Idom from a full fatisfadtioii and acquicjance in

friendfhip, as applied to perfons.

AcQj;i'REMENr.ff./ [iioaxacqicire.] That
which is acquired ; gain ; attainment.
The word may be properly uled in op-

Neither from any of che nobility, nor of the
clergy, who were thought moftaverfelrom it, tliere

Soutb.

In what manner he lived with thofe who were
of his neighbourhood and acquaintance^ how obliging his carriage wat to them, what kind offices he
did, and was always ready to do them, 1 forbear

A filent appearance of content, dilUnguilhedon one fide from avowed confent,
on the other from oppofition.

The

perfon that acquires ; a gainer.

South.

jiitertury.

this high privilege ar-d alliance.

I

rafters.

AcQjri'RABLE. adj. [from acquire.] That

in fome

Acqu a'intakce. n.f. [accoiittance, Fr.]

%.

who (hall rcprcfent things to them under thefe cha-

ment, acquifltion ; the thing gained.

or three men of the town are got among them, and
have brought words and phralcs, which were never
Tallir.
before in thofe parts.

1,

faith, and a full acquiefcence in the word of tliofe,

friendfhip.

My father c/this bufinefs.

A

The grenteft part of the world take up their pcrfuafions concerning good and evil, by an implicit

The

In

Submlffion, confidence.

3.

But (lie, all vow'd unto the red-crofs knight,

to hear.]
2.

A C Q^

Denkani*s Sophy,

A ftate can never arrive to its period in a more
dcpl'irabic crifis, than when Ibme prince lies hover-

ing like a vulture to difmember Its dying carcali: ;.
by wliich means it becomes only an acquifition to

fome mighty monarchy, without hopes of a rcfur-

AdJifon, ireftioB.

^

S-wift^

Acqjii'bitivs,

"

ACT

A C R

A C Q^

They quickly pay their debt, and then
Take no acquittances, but pay again.
Donne.
The fame man bought and fold to himfelf, paid

Acqyi*«ITIVK. adj. [acqmjtlivtts, Lat.]
That whidi is acquired or gained.
He diej not in his aefuifitive buc in liis nativf
nature hcrfelf, as it were, claiming a Ana)
when fortune had done with
him.
IVaton.

the money, and gave the acquittance,

foil ;

intercft in his btdy,

A'cRE. n.f. [JEcjM, Sax.]

eight hundred and forty fquare yards.

Dia.

To ACQUIT, v.

A'cRiD. adj. [acer, Lat.]
tafte ;

Quit.]
I.

But joy her thrall for ever to remain.

And yield for pledge my poor captived heart.

Acrimo'nious. adj.

To clear from a charge of guilt

;

If gall cannot be tendered acrimonious, and bitter
of itfelf, then whatever acrimony or amaritude
redounds in it, muH be from the admixtare oi
Harvey on Conjuntptiom.
melancholy.

to ab-

folve ; oppofed to condemn, either fimply

with an accufative ; as, the jury acquitted
him, or with the particles from or of,
which is more common, before the crime.

A'cRiMONY. n.f.

If I fin, then thou markeft me, and thou wilt
not acquit me from mine iniquity.
^oi, x. 14.
By the fuDVage of the moft and beft he is already
acquittedftai, by tbefencenceof fome, condemned.

they are cut; as,

1

one Ihould think they Ihould be lenitive.
Sacen's Natural Hifttry.
ThechymilH define fait, from fome of its properties, to be a body fufible in the fire, congealable
again by cold into brittle glebes or crydaU, foluble
in water, fo as to difappear, not malleable, and having fomcthing in it which affects the organs of
tafte with a fenfation of acrimony or fliarpnefs.
Arhutbnot,

my

Swift,

To clear from any obligation.

In a /imilar fenfe, it is faid. The man
hath acquitted him/elf luell i that is, he
hath difcharged his duty.

Acqjii'tment. n.f [from acquit.] The
ftate of being acquitted ; or ad of acquitting.
The word imports properly an acquittiunt or diftharge of a man upon fome precedent accufatlon,
and a full trial and cognizance of hit caufe had

thereupon.

In law, is a deliverance and fetting free from the fufpicion
or guiltinefs of an offence.'
Ccnuel.

The conllant defign of both thefe orators, was
to drive fome one particular point, either the condemnation or acquittal oi an accufed pcrfon.

Sivft.

To Acqui'ttance. I/, a. To procure an
acquittance ; to acquit j a word not in
prefent ufe.
But if black fcandal and fouI-facM reproach.
Attend the fcquci of your impofition.
Your mere enforcement (hall acquittance me
From all the impure blots and flalns thereof
Shakefj}care.

Acqui'ttance. n.f. [from acquit.]
I. tHc aft of difcharging from a debt.
But foon fliall find
Forbearance, no acquittance, ere day end
Juftice fliall not return, as beauty, fcorn'd.
Milton.

1.

2.

A writing teftifying the receipt of a

gant conceit of theirs, wliich made them huff at
the doilrine of repentance, as a thing below them,
and not at all belonging to them.
St/utb.

A'c R I T u D E

You can produce acquitlanca
For fuch a fum, from fpecial officers

Of Charles hit father.
Siiaicffeare'i Lfot't Labmr Loji.

Leave writing plays, and chnofe for thy command

Some peaceful province in acnjlick land

.

n. jf.

[from acrid. ]

Dryden.

J'CROTERS,

I

to fupport rtat.ues.

I.

z.

To perform the proper funftions.
Albe't the will is not callable \}t beifvg compelled
it is cipable of beii^
made to a^ with more or lefs d)6iculiy, according
to the different impreiUons it rcceiy^s from motives
or objeils.
South,

3.

To pradllfe arts or duties
one's

;

to

condud

felf.

"I'is plain that (he, wljo for a

ing ; the oppoiite of exoterical.

kingdom now*

Would facrifice her love, and break her vovii.
Not out of love, but intereft, acts alanc.

on the more nice and

And would, ev'n in my arms, lie thinking o( a

principal parts of philofophy, to which
none but friends and fcholars were ad-

Dryden i Cvnquejl of Granada.

throne.

The defirc of happinefs, and

the conftrainc

it

upon us to afl for it, no body accounts an
abridgment of liberty.
Locke.

ptits

mitted by him.

Acro'nycal. adj. [from uic^0-, Jiimmui,

The fplendor of his office, is the token of that
facred character which he inwardly bears : and
one of thefe ought conlbntly to put him in mind
of the other, and excite him to afl up to it, through
the whole courfe of his adminiftration.

and >iy|, nox ; importing the beginning
of night.] A term of aftronomy, applied
to the ftars, of which the rifmg or fetting

when they either appear above or fink below the horizon at
the time of funfet.
It is oppofed to

is called acronycal,

Atterhury'"! Sermons,
our part and duty to co-operate with this
grace, vigoroufly to exert thofe poweis, and a^ up
to thofe advantages to whi^h it rciiaies us.
He
has given eyes to the blind, and feet to the lame.
Rt'^crs's Sermcns.
It is

cofmical.

Acro'nycally. ad<v. [from acronycal.]
At the acronycal time.
He is tempeltuous in

'

to any of its actings, yet

Acroa'ticks. n.f. [Axgoolixa, Gr.] Arileftures

To be in action, not to reft.
He hangs between in duubt t> aH or re/l. Ftpe,

Of or pertaining to deep learn-

ftotle's

ACROTE'RIA. n. f

To ACT. T. n. [ago, aQum, Lat.]

Grcvj's Mujteum.

hear.]

or

[from ait^ot, Gr. the extremity of any
body.]
Little pcdeftais without bafes,
placed at the middle and the two extremes of pediments, fometimes fervihg

An acrid

Acroama'tical. fl;^'. [aKjoao^t, Gr.

:

There thou may'ft wings difplay, and altars raife.
And torture onepoor'word ten thoufand ways.

tafte ; a biting heat on the palate.
In green vitriol, with iti aftringent and fwectijh
taftes, is joined foute acritudct

fummer, when he
rlfes heliacally, and rainy in the winter, when he
the

4.

To produce efFefts in fome pafli ve fubjedl.
Hence 'tis we wait the wond'rous caufe to find

How body a^s upon impalTive mind.

Dryden,

Garth^s Difpenfary.

A'crospire. n.f. [fromax^®' ando-B-ir^a,

The ftomach, the intcftines, the muftles of, the
lower belly, all ad upon the aliment; befides, the

r\ie% acronycaily.

Gr.]

debt.

AcRo'sTiCK. n.f [from ixf®- and rt%®'»
Gr.]
A poem in which the firft letter
of every line being taken, makes up
the name of the perfon or thing on
which the poem is made.
ACRO'STICK. adj.
I. That which relates to an acroftick.
z. That which contains acrofticks.

Sharpnefs of temper, feverity, bitternefs of thought or language.
John the Baptift fet himfelf, with much acrimony and indignation, to bafBe this fenfelefs arro-

Souib,

^cquj'ttal. «./.

[acrimenia, Lat.]

Sharpnefs, corrofivenefs.
Thctu be plants that have a milk in them when
figs, old lettuce, fow-thiftles,
fpurge.
The caufe may be an inception of putrefaflion : for thnfe milks have all :inacrimony, though

Dryden,
He that judges, without informing himfelf to
the utmoft chat he is capable, cannot acquit iiim'
felf ©/"judging amifs.
Locke.
Ncitlier do I refiedt upon the memory of his
majefty, whom I entirely atpi/f of
Imputation.

Steady to my principles, and not difpirjted with
my affliilions, I have, by the blefling of God on
my endeavours, overcome all difficulties ; and, in
fome mealurc, acquitted mrfclf of the debt which
I owed the publick, when I undertook this work.
Dryden.

Abounding with

acrimony ; fharp ; corrofive.

Sfenjtr.

4.

Of a hot biting

bitter ; fo as to leave a painful

Bitter and acrid dift'cr only by the (harp particles
of the firft being involved in a greater quantity of
oil than thofc of the laft.
j^rbutbnot on Aliments.

To be acquit from my continual fmart ;

3.

fo as to crofs it.
The harp hath the concave not along the ftringS|
but acrofs the ftrings ; and no harp hath the found
fo melting and prolonged as the IriQi harp.
Bacon.
This view'd, but hot enjoy' J, with arms acrofr
He Hood, reflecting on his country's lofs. Dryden*
There is a fet of urtizans, who, by the help of
feveral poles, which they lay acoji each ochers
Ihoulders, build thcmfelv.'-i up into a kind of pyramid j fo that you fee a pile of men in the air of four
or five rows rifing one above another,
Addifcn.

heat upon the organs of tafte.

Tofet free.
Nc do 1 with (for wi/hing were but vain)

a.

Mortimer*

AcRo'ss. adv. [from a for at, or the
French a, as it is ufed in a traijers, and
Athwart, laid over fomethinj
crofs.]

Search every acre in the high-grown field.
And bring him to our eye.
Sbakefp. Kin^ Lear.

See

a. [acquitier, Fr.

on the Hrior, it comes and fprouts at both ends,
which is called acrofjiircd, and is fit only for fwine.

A quantity of

ufe.

His fervant he with new acquiji
Of true experience from this great cvrnf,
With peace and confolation hath difmift. MUtor..

or having ftiot out.
For want of turning, when the malt is fpread

yirhuthnot.

land containing in length forty perches,
and four in breadth, or four thoufand

Acqui'sT. n.f. [See AcquEST.] Acquirement ; attainment ; gain. Not in

A'cROspiRED./ar/. adj. Having fprouts,

A fhoot or fprout from the end of

feeds before they are put in the ground.

Many corns will fmilt, or have their pulp turned
into a fubftance like thick cream ;

and will fcitd

forth their fubftaucc in an acrojfirt^

Mortimer.

chyle is not fucked, but fqueezed into the mouths
of the la£teals, by the action of the fibres of the
guts.
Ariulhnot en Aliments,

Tc Act.

-v,

t,.
I.

To

ACT

ACT

To bear a borrowed charsifter; m, a

t.

flage-player.

Honour and fliamc from no condition

rife ;

j^a well your part, there all the honour lies.

To counterfeit

t.

;

flatutcs

to chain

To aduate

gulate the movemeats.
Moft people in the world are affej
by levity and
humour, i>y ftrange and irrational
changes.
erhj.rs they are as proud as
Lucifer, as coveDemas, as falfe as Judas, and,

rity

whole courfe of their converfation,
aiJ, and a,e
*ctcd, not by devotion, but
defign.
We fuppofc two diftina, incommunicableSouth
confcoufneires^ffi^; the fame body,
the one ccnftantly by day. the other
by night ; and, on the
other fide, the lame confcioufcefi
aaing by inter''
vals two diftinfl bodies.
'

And let another half (land laoahing bv,
All out of work, and cold for aaLn.

Something done ; a deed ; an
exploit,
whether good or ill.

Acquire too high a fame.
Stahfp. Ant. and Cltopatra.

From the firft moment of his vital breath,'

3.

To his lift hour of unrepenting death.
Drfdcn.
Z. Agency ; the power of producing
I will try

the forces

at

We count not worth the hanging but none human
;

1 o try the vigour of them, and
apply
Allayments to their aa ; and by
them gather
T heir feveral virtues and efteas.

,

a^ of placing benefits

The doing of fome particular tiling

This aaion fhould have
*irft,

;

be a great a<f?wii.

™~"f
While he

'''?'

which they after'o.
,

Cod alone excepted, who aSually and everlaftI, wha:foever he may be,
and which cannot
hereafter be that which now he is
not: all other
things befides are Ibmewhatin

yet they are not in «c>.

Foflibllitv, which as
'

y/^^^,,..

Sure they're confcious
Of fome intended mifchief, and are fled
To put It into «a.
D,nh^m\

Sophy.

b. Incipient agency;

tendency to an effort
Her legs were bulkin'd, and the left
before.
In aa to ihoct ; a filver bow Ihc
bore.

DryJcr.

A part of a play, during which the action proceeds without interruption.

Many never doubt but the whole condition

quired by Chrift, the repentance

re-

It is

ufed with the prepifi-

Aakns are pcrfonal, real, and mixt ; aakn
perfonal belongs to a man againji
another, by reafon
of any eontrjft, offence, or caufe, of
like force
with a contraa or oftcnce made or
done by him or
fome other, for whofe faft he is to anfwcr.
rral IS given to any

and mixt.

fucd, be it corporal or pecuniary:

dutely before the exit, be as
opportunely and acceptably performed, at at any other
point of their
"''^"""l'' Fu„damntali.
» ,.
V^
•iveaffsarejuft
the mealure of a play.
•

A decree of a court of joAice, iTedirt

li*,',
fiiall

'"'=,""'' '"''"''' °f »

as, in

comra.n

man felonioufly flain

purfuc the law agahjl the murderer.
Aahn
mixt IS that vthich fceks both the
thing whereof
wc are deprived, and a penalty alfo
for the uriuft

dctJiningof the fame.
Aahn upon the cafe, it an aahn given for redrcfs
of wrongs done without force
again/} my man, bv
'
law not fpecially provided for.
Crwcll.•

at

as

is

that

of gravity, and that which caufes
fermentation,
and the cohrlion cf bodies.
AWi/te', Opticks.
2. Ihat which afts, oppofed to
pafTtve,

or
^"
—When an even flame two hearts did touch,

that which fufFers.

Mis omce was indulgently
tn (it
Aaivti to palTives, corrcfpondencr
'

Only his fubjedl was.

r>„.

you think that, by multiplying
the adUitaments in the fame proportion
that jou multiply the
ore, the woik will follow,
you may be deceived;
for quantity in the paflive
will add more rdilUnce
than thequantity in the
affiw will add force. Bacn.
3. ^ufy, engaged in aflion
oppofed to
;
It

idle or fedentciry, or

any ftate of which
only by the

the duties are performed

mental powers.

'Tis vii tuous aaion that muft
pralfe bring forth.
Without which, flow advice is little

jn=y wlio «ive good counfel,

worth j

praife defervr,
,pf
Iho intheaaw part they cannot fcrve.
Denham.
4. rraftical ; not merely theoretical.

The world hath had in thefe men fiefli
experience,howdangcrousfuchaW-:.,errorsare. i/«,ir^
_

5.

Nimble; agile; quick.

Some bend the ftubborn bow for

Tiflory •

And fome with darts tbcirafl«,r finews
try. ir, dni
^
o. In grammar.

A verb aaive it that which fignifies aftion, as

^ '""''•

Cl'rke-, Latin Grammar.

AcTivELT. ad-v. [from aaive.]
aftive manner ; bufily ; nimbly.

aaive fignification j

In an
In an

as, tbe ivcrJ is u/td

aa'fvely.

Aahn vp^n the flaiute, is aa aahn brought A'cTivENEss.
n.f. [fromfl<?;W.]
oZ^mfi a man iipon
breach of a ftatute.

ac.

from that force, but alfo they are

moved by certain aaim principles, fuch

Anion

Aa,on civil It that which tends onlv
to the reco
very of that which is due to us
as a fum of mo;
ney formerly lent.
Aaion penal is that which
aims at fome penalty cr puniihment
in the party

That which has the power or quality
of
'
afting.
Thele particles have not only a vis
ineriiar,

man agairji another, that pof-

the thing required or fued for in
his own
name, and no other man's. Aakn
mixt, is that
which hes as well againfi or
for the thing which wc
feek, as agawjl the perfon
that hath it ; called
m,xi, bccaufc it hath a mixt
refpcft both to the
tiling and to the pcrfjn.
Aakn Is divided into civil, penal,

and

Bacon.

compamed with fuch pafiive laws of
motion,

lefTcs

he came

m that lad fcene of their laft aa,to preach,
imme-

Vol. I.

[In law.]

To

perhaps

is

'

naturally refult

Slai^fp. Khr Jch„.
_Our orators are obf.-rved to make
ufc of Icfs
gefture or aaioa than thofe of other
countries.

before the thing.

irgly

of a legiflature.

^P"''^ <'"'' 8''P<= 'he hearer's wrift,
hears makes fearful aaioH

t.iat

effeft.
jre not

I.

the

accordance of the
body with the words

word

Active, ac^j. [aai-vus. Lit.]

aaion; and, thirdly, it ihould

;

This

'"™ *"'"' °' "'^"''''y '""" '*='"=> '" 'oVr

tinTe
^

-

it

motions of the
fpoken; a part of oratory.

Ta

_

8.

fccondly,

adlive.

Dia.
aai-ve.]

theircold aa:i,ai.-d by nitre or
fait, will turn water
into ice, and that in a
few hour.; fo it may be.

qualifications.

aah„;

Stak.jfur,-, Kl„g Lt^r.

wards grow to be.

.a

three

Shakefp.

ufed only by the author alleged.
As fnowand ice, eCpecially being
hojpen,

/iti-r

V Oelficulation

&.

The feeds of herb- and plants at the firft

will,

ufeful

tion againfl before tlie
perfon, and/»r

in ^a, but in poffibility, that

7.

Liould be but one

it

fliould be an entire

a purpofe executed.

A (late of reality

make

fliouJd

With wrinkled brows.

I hat thi« remotion of
the duke and her
Is praaicc only.

_

Aftion quick and frequent.
To A'cT.iwATE.'u.a. [i'lom

fable.

Staktfffare': Cjmlelm.

knave.

Actita'tion. „./ [from a^ita, Lai.]

He has fettied laws, and laid down rules, conformable to which natural bodies
are governed in
their aar.ni upon one another.
Cbeyne.
+. The feries of events reprefented

Ihiia.'? perfuadesme,

5.

Knave ; a lily-liver'd aSkn-t^king

vic.ffitudes of night and day,
than expofe always
the fame fide to the aahn of the fun.

on many, as the fun i. always
carrying his light to
fome part or other of the world.
DryJ„', FabU,.
Wh:,forth from nothingcall'd thit
comely frame.
His will and aa, his word and
work the fame.

llep taken ;

that the earth

litigious.

;

A knave, a rafcal, a filthy worfted-ftockin?

in a

produiSion of effefta.
'Tis fo much in your nature
to do good, that

4.

therefore,

Accuftomed to

.

refent by means of law

t
iiutb.

.

CoHier,

or flocks.

criminal and in-

Agency, operation.

more innoccntcaufes.

A'cTioN-TAKiNC. a,fj

,

better,

,

AcTioNARy,orA'cTiONisT.».y: [froin
aaio„.] One that lias a fhare
in e,aio,„

a deed.

move about its own center, and make thofc

performance of exploits ;

your lilc IS cut one continued

;

Homel's Vccal Forcff.

.
No man 3 face
is aaionabJe : thefe
finguUrities

jire interpretablelVom

BcntUy

Of thcfe thy compounds on fuch creatures

« cv.
,
3. ALtion ; the

excufable.
A
It i»

" an

effecl.

-,

'

'

SbaUfpsare'i Henry V.

aascn IS made fo much the more

reveal

toth to confefs, unable to conceal

was aa-tovMe, but of ambition.

God never accepts a good inclination inrtead
ot
a good oaicn, where that aahn
may be doi'e • nay
fo much the contrary, that, if
a good inclination
be not feconded by a good affion,
the want of that

our deed

r
Ike confcious
wretch mud all hisaS.

brought againft it ; punidiable.

This aaion, I now go on,
Is for my better grace.
Shak-fpem'i fTmter! Ta/e.

A lower place, not well.

-.

An aft or thing done

2.

-That
to be

His procels was formed whereby
;
he was found
guilty ot nought ehc, that I
could learn, which

rr

to rcjl.
O nolle Englifli ! that could entertain
With half their forces the full power of
France •

^^^^^

May make too great an aa :
Better to leave undone than by

o

.

[^vom. c.3ion.]

wnich admits aa aftion in law

^y;j^_

The quality or ilate of aaing, oppoiite

1.

Act. n./. [aSum, Lat.]
I.

A'cTiOKABLE. a^^

recorded L-y the autho-

of the judge.

againfi us quitteJ.

In the plural, in France, the
fame as
flocks in England.

7.

A CTioN. ;,./. [aawn, Fr. aalo, Lat.]

in th-

For our reward then,
our debts arc paid ; dangers of law,

Aa:onz, decrees, jujgraentj,

Judiciul aas are all thole matters wliith
_
relate to
judicial proceedings ; and being
reduced into witing by a public notary, are

South.

I

tous as

Fir/1,.311

Record of judicial proceedings.

9.

the only lett.
Sidney.

You that are k,ng, though he do«-car the
crown,
Have caus'd hi.-n, by new aa of parliament,
1 biot out me.
Shak.-rper.r,'! Ihrry VI.

put in motion ; to re-

to

mm could have a jailer aahn

being granted mc, her blindnefs is

Shakrfitare's Corial.iru!.

D.yrler

;

Th;.-e was never

mamfi fii:hy tjnunc than 1, fmce, jll other thiojit

daiK

up aid refliaia the pcor.

'

His forrner trembling once again
renew'd,
VVi^th aff^ fear the villain
thus purfuM.
|.

ofurers,

repeal daily any wiiolcfome
a'a eftablifti-J againit
the nch, and provide more piercing

,

Pete.'

to feign by aaion.

ACT

They make ediftr for uftrv to fuppsrt

i

quality

^

of being

aftivc ;

The

(^uicknefs

nunbjenefs.

ACT

fings, according as they

nimbUnefs. This is a word more rarely
Whit (Irange agility and efUvenifi do our common tumblers and dancen on the rap: attain to, by
continual nercifc

Hnikini'i Math. Mogick.

AcTi'viTY. n.f. [from aSi've,'] The quality' of being aftive, applied either to

things or perfons.
Salt put to ice, as in the producing of the artificial ice, increafeth

Bacon,

the aB'rviiy of cold.

God.

Rogers.

A'ctualness. »./ [from a^ual.]

The

he watches every turn of our foul, and incident of
our life ; and, if we remit our alirvity, will take
advantage of our indolence*
Rogers,

civil law.
Suppofe the judge fliould fay, that he would
have the keeping of the afls of court remain with
him, and the notary will have the cudody of them
with himfelf : certainly, in this cafe, the aBuary
or writer of them ought to be preferred.
Aylife.

[a£lor, Lat.]

He that afls, or performs any thing.
The virtues of either age may correft the defers of both : and good for fuccelTion, that young

meo may be learners, while men in age are aSon,
Bacon.

He that peribnates a charafler ; a ftageSuch an Herculean after in the fcene.

In every adl he our attention draws,

Drydtri'i Spamjh Friar.

[a3rice,¥r.']

She that performs any thing.
Virgil has, indeed, admitted Fame as an aflreji
none of the
that divine work.

little ufed.

Addijrji,

We had, for all the world, when human creatures
Play all my tricks in hell, a goblin there.

I.

fharpnefs.
Immoderate feeding upon powdered beef, pickled meats, and debauching with drong wines, do

;

tated to corrode the lungs.

[aiiuel, Fr.]

Acu'leate. ai(/.

That which comprifes aAion.

figuratively, quicknefs of intellefts.
The word was much affefted by the learned
Aridarchus in common convcrfation, to fignify

Once afhial; now in body, and to dwell

genius or natural acumen.

Milton.

Drydirt,

[from a^aW.] The
ftate of being adual.
The a&ualiiy of thefe fpiritual qualities is thus

impiifoned, though their potentiality be not quite
defttoyed j and thus a crafs, extended, impenetragener.ited, which we call matter.

5. Sharpnefs of found.
1 his acutsnefs of found will fliew, that whild,
to the eye, the bell feems to be at red, yet the
minute parts of it continue in a very briflc motion,
without which they could not drike the air. Boyle.
to. participial adj. [adaiSus, Lat.]

Adkct

Driven by force ; a word

Shallow unimproved inctUe£is, are confident
pretenders to certainty; as if, contrary to the
adage, fcience had no friend but ignorance.
Glamille's Scepjis Scienti/ica»
old ambitious fool,

Fine fruits of learning

A

term ufed by muficians, to mark a flow
time.

A'DAMANT. n.f. [adamas, Lat. from »
and

in elfeft ; really.
All mankind acknowledge themfclvcs able and
fufficient to do many things, which aHaally they
never do.
Scuth.
Read one of the Chronicles, and you will think
j-ou were reading a hidory of the kings of Ifrael or
Judah, where the hiftorians were aflnj//)) infpired,
and where, by a particular fchcme of providence,
lilt lunga were diOinguiflted by judgmeats or blef-

Gr. that

is

inj'uperable,

in-

1

A ftone, imagined by writers, of impenetrable hardnefs.
So great a fear my name amongd thrm fpread.
That they fuppos'd I could rend bars of dcel.

much pain, unlefs touched or rubbed, or cxafpe-

And fpurn in pieces podsof <:</iin<»i/.

l)y

topicks.

Shaiefpcare,
Satan, witli vad and haughty drides aJvanc'd,

IViJeman.

Came tow'ring, arm'd in adamant and gold.
Miltm^

Sharp, ending in a point ; oppofed to

tween

Eternal Deities,

I can, by intuitive knowledge,
perceive the one n.)t to be the other, but cannot
that way know whether they be equal.
Locke.

2.

ixfitu,

frangible.']

Who rule the world with abfolute decrees.

Having the ideas of an obtufe and an acute angled triangle, both drawn from equal bafes and be-

Cheyne.

!

Dar'd thou apply that adage of the fchool.
As if 'tis nothing worth that lies conceal'd,
And fcience is not fcience till reveaPd ?
Dryden.
JDjTGIO. n.f. [Italian, at leifure.]

obtu/e or blunt.

A'ctually. aJv. [froma^W.] In afl;

Dia.

A'dage. ».y. [adagium, hit,'] A maxim
handed down from antiquity ; a proverb.

ACU'TE. adj. [acutus, Lat.]

is

ufed.

little

The verb adai3 is not ufed.

Ero^vns Vulgar Errours.
I appropriate this word. Noli me langere, to a
fmall round acuminated tubercle, which hath not
rated

1

Locke.

We

This is not acuminated and pointed, as in the

Actua'lity. n./.

unintelligent fubdance

made him lofe its ufe.

I

red, but feemeth, as it were, cut ofl^.

eyes fo fiamed could not view at once the

4. Violence and fpeedy crifis of a malady.
apply prefent remedies according to indi«
cations, refpefling rather the acutenrfs of the difeafc, and precipitancy of the occafion, than the
rifing and letting of dars.
Brown,

a point ; fharp-pointed.

For he that but conceives a crime in thought,
Contrafts the danger of an aSual fault
Then what mud he expe3, that dill proceeds
To finifli fin, and work up thoughts to deeds }

divifible,

Pope.

'

Ac u'm n at e d. particip. adj. Edding in

In aft ; not purely in fpeculation.

psffive,

It

That

JCU'MEN. n.f. [Lat.] A (harp point

Quicknefs and vigour of fenfes.
hand and the hour-plate, their owner could not
be benefited by that a.utenefs; which, whild it
difcovered the fecret contrivance of the machine,

Harvey in Ccnfumfiions.

[acu/eatus, Lat.]

which has a point or fting ; prickly ;
that which terminates in a ffiarp point.

Sin, there in pow> before

ble,

3.

inflame and acuate the blood, whereby it is capaci-

A woman that plays on the ftage.

Habitual habitant.

cou'd be nothing added to the acutenefs and peneLocke.

trat on of their underdandings.

To Ihar-

pen, to invigorate with any powers of

Drjden.

in this Aumbry agitation, befides her walking
and dther aliual performances, what, at any time,
have you heard her fay ?
Shakeffeare'i Macbeth.
X. Really in aft ; not merely potential.

J.

Force of intelledls.
They would not be fo apt to think, that there

mod admired circumdances of To A'cu ATE. I), a. [acuo, Lat.]

And therefore I that was an alireft here.

A'cTUAL. adj.

Sharpnefs.

adj. [from fliS.] That which
hath ftrong powers of adion : a word

We fprights have juft fuch natures

2.

1.

AcTuo'sE.

in the jSnciJ ; but the part flic ails is very fljort,
aiid

America, will find men reafun there, perhaps, at
acutely as himfcif, who yet never heard of a fyllogifra.
Locke.

2.

Men of the greated abilities are mod fiied with
ambition j and, on the contrary, mean and narrow minds are the lead actuated by it.
jlddifin.
Our padions are the fprings which actuate the
powers of our nature.
Rogers.

Thefe falfe beauties of the ftage arc no more lading than a rainbow ; when the aClor ceafes to (bine
upon them, they vanilh in a twinkling.

or

well in the figurative as primitive fenfe.
He that will look into many parts of Afia and

Brnvns Vulgar Errours.

That at the lall he may find juH applaufe. Dtnbam.

railes

the padivc reception of the will, like form clofing
with matter, grew aSiuate into a third and didind
perfeftion of practice.
South.

Such is every man, who has not actuated the
grace given him, to tlie fubduing of every reigning
fin.
Decay of Piety.

When a good aEior doth his part prefent,

^incy.
which

kcv'-rzLY. ad'v. [from af»/*.] After an
acute manner ; fliarply : it is ufed as

to be actuated into this ludre.

Ben Jonjon,

accent ;

that
fliarpens the voice.

living fpirit, and feems, by fome vitaJ irradiation,

And not tliis hydra ? They mud fweat no lefs
To fit their properties, than t' exprcfs their parts.

1.

oppofed to chronical.
5. Jlcute

The ailive informations of the intelled, filling

Lat.] To put into aflion ; to invigorate or increafe the powers of motion.
The tight made by this animal depends upon a

Would you have

Any difeafe, which is

attended with an increafed velocity of
blood, and terminates in a few days ;

To A'CTUATE. "w. a. [from ago, aHum,

player.

A'cTRESS. n.f.

4. Acute difeafc.

Acu'teness. n.f. [from acute, which fee.]

into efFeft.

It heartily, is

2.

Were our leufes altered, and madehiuch quicker
and acuier, the appearance and outward fchcme of
things would hjve quite another face to us. Locke.

A'cTUATE.a*^'. [from the verb Toa£iuaie.'\
Put into action ; animated ; brought

He who writes an Eneomium Nentih, if he docs
himielf but a tranfcript of Nero in
his mind, and would gladly enough fee fuch pranks,
as he was famous for, a^ed again, though he dares
n jt be the aHor of them himfelf.
South.

ful in operation.

A'ctuarv. «./. [a{luarius, Lat.] The
regifter who compiles the minutes of the
proceedings of a court ; a term of the

1

Spoken of the fenfes, vigorous ; power,

3

quality of being aftual.

Our adverfary will not be idle, though we are

A'cTOR. n.f.

.

promoted idolatry. Or the

worlhip of the true Cod.
jiddifon.
Though our temporal profpeSs fliould be full of
danger, or though the days of forrow fhould aSual/y
overtake us, yec ftill we mud repofe ourfelves on

ufed than aSi-vity.

!

ADA

A C U

And write whatever time fliall bring to pafs.
With pens of adamant, on plates of brafs. Dryitn»

par.illels,

2.

Hardnefs, wherein fome doncs exceed all other
and among them the adamant all other
doncs, being exalted to that degree thereof, that
art in vain endeavours to counterfeit it, the factitious doncs of chymids, in imitation, being,
eafily detefled by an ordinary lapiJid.

In a figurative fenfe applied to men ;
ingenious ; penetrating ;
oppofed to
dull OTjiupid.

The acute and ingenious author, among many
vef^ fine thoughts, and uncommon fefle^ions, has
liartcd the notion of feeing all things inCod.

Lxke.

The diamond.
bodies,

Ray on the Creation,3

Adamant is taken for the loadilpne.
Yon

To Adco'rporate.

Yoa draw me, you hard-hearted ajamant
But yet you draw not iron j for my heart

other ;

Let him change his lodging from one part if
the town to another, which is a great adamant of

[from adamant.

adj.

To ADD.
1.

'\

Hard as adamant.
.

[addo, Lat.]

a.

To join fomething to that which was

To ADDI'CT. -v. a.

Mark if his birth makes any d'fference,

Having the qualities of adamant; as,
hardneis, indifrolubility.
Could Eve's weak liand, extended to the tree,

A'ddable. adj. [from add.] That to
which fomething may be added. AS-

\a (Under rend that adamanune chain,
Whofe golden links, eftcfts and caufes be.
And which to Cod'i own chair doth fix'd remain ?
Davtti,

more proper. It fignifies more
properly that which may be added.
The firll number in e^ery addition is called the
addable number, the other, the number or numbers added, and the number invented by the addidible is

An eternal flerility mud

have poflefled the
world, where all things had been fixed and faftened everlaftingly with the adamantine chains of
fpeciiic gravity ; if the Almighty had not fpoken
and faid, Let the earth bring forth grafs, the herb
\ieldlng feed, and the fruit-tree yielding fruit after
Its kind ; and it was fo.
Bentlry,
In adamantine chain? ihall death be bound.

tion, the aggregate or fum.

To take or afoertain tithes.
1/.

Tho' adamantine bonds the chief redraln,

portion.
;

;

for, with

on account of its virtue, real or fuppofed, of curing the bite of ferpents.
A'ddible. adj. [from add.] PoiTible to
be added,
SeeAuDABLE.
The cleared idea it can get of infinity, Is the

of fitting.
aLne a fufficVnt work to (hew all the

confufed, incomprehenfible remainder of cndlefs,

contrivances,

benefit of the whole.

Ada'ptness.

and prudent
machines, for the

addible numbers,

Cbcynt,

'

Dr.' Ntiuun.

This wor4 I have found no where
elfe.

no profpedt of
Locke.

poffibility of being added.
'

notes are to difplay the ajaptnefi of the'

affords

Addibi'lity. »./. [from addiik.] The

adapt.]
.SoiT.e

which

ftop, or boundary.

n.f. {(OT adaptedne/sfitom

found to the fenfe.

In a palace there is firft the cafe or fabiick,
or moies of the ftrufture itfelf; and, befides that,
there are certain additamcnts that contribute to its

ornament and

ufe ; as, various furniture, rare
fountains 9nd aquedudis, divers things appendicated to it.
Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Addi'tion. 11./. [from add.]
1.

The aft of adding one thing to another;
'
oppofed to diminution.
The infinite diftance between the Creator and
the nobieft of all creatures, can never be meafured,
nor exhauftcd byendlefs addition of finite degrees.

Bentky .
2.

This endlcfs addition, or addibiliiy (if any one
better) of numbers, \o apparent to
the mind, is that which gives us tlic clearell and
mofl didin^ idea of-infinity.
Locke.
like the word

A'oDiCE. a,/, [for which we corruptly

Additament, or the thing added.
It will not be modeftly done,

if

any of our

own wifdom intrude or interpofe, or be willing to
make additions to what Chrift and his apoftlet
have defigned.
Hammond.
Some fuch refcmblances, methinks, I find

Of our lad evening's talk, in this thy dream.
But with addition ftrange

Mi/ten.

!

The abolifhing of villanagc, together with the
cuftom permitted among the nobles, of felling
their lands, was a mighty addition to the power. of
^
the commons.
Swi/i.

A'dder's-wort. a./. An herb fo named,

Aoa'ption. It./, [from adaft.] The aft
wife

:

muft be upon the calcination, and the additamentj
and the charge of them.
Ba^cn.

It hath no vifible flower ; but the feeds are
produced on a fpike, which refembles a ferpcnt's
tongue ; which feed is contained in many longitudmal cells.
Miller,
The moft common fimples are comfrey, bugle,
agrimony, fanicle, paul's-betony, fiuellin, periwinkle, adder" s-tongue.
ffijiman's Surgery.

£tn/e.

thefe admirable

The addition, or thing added.
Iron will not incorporate with brafs, nor other
metals, of itfelf, by fimple fire
fo as the enquiry

A'dder's-tokgue. n. f. \ophiogloffum,
Lat.]
The name of an herb.

yet are their parts

we cjnnot define the beginningor end of cither, tliere being a commixtion of
both, rather than adaftaikn or cement of the one
unto the other.
Bn-wn't fulgar Errcun.
Adhefinn may be in part afcribed, either to
fome elartxji motion in the prelTed glafs, or to
the exquifite /u/afiation of the almoft numberlcfs,
though vrry fmall, afpcrities of the one, and the
numerous little cavil es of the other; whereby the
furfjccs do :ock in with one another, or are, as it

the

A'dditament.»./ [additamentum, Lat.]

The name of a

imagined by Skinner to be fo
named, becaufe ferpents lurk about it.

fo fet together, that

necfflii es,

His companies unletter'd, rude, and Ihallow;
His hours fiU'd up with riots, banquets, fports.

plant,

the

Some fpecies there be of middle natures, that

edafti'.m, of

The ftate of being devoted.
It is a wonder how his grace Ihould glean it.
Since his addition was to courfcs vain j

The adder teaches us where to ftrike, by her
curious and fearful defending of her head. Taylor.

Atnefs of one thing to another.

It were

2.

Shakefpeare.

Adapta'tiok. 71./. [from adaft.'\ The A'dder's-crass. n.f.
aft of fitting one thing to another ;

doubler tongue

Than thine, thou ferpent, never adder tlung.

Pope^t Letters.

were, clafped t geiher.

Boyle*

Addi'ction. n.f. [addiaio, Lat.]
1. The aft of devoting, or giving up.

;

Sbakefpeare.

An adder did it

Svoift.

not enough that nothing offends the ear,
tut a good poet will adaft the very founds, as well
as words, to the things he treats of.

;

former addiHednefs to makechymical experiments.

Becaufe his painted Ikin contents the eye ?

It is

of bird" and beaft, as batts

Ben Jonfon,

Addi'ctedness. n. f. [from addiiled.]
The quality or ftate of being addifted.
Thole know how little I have remitted of my

Shakefpeare.

For nature, always in the right,

is,

have any thing right, defend it as truth's.

perhaps of any fpecies.
In common
language, adders zxsd./nakes are not the
fame.
Or is the adder better than the eel,

To fit

'.

;

a.

A ferpent, a viper, a poifonous reptile

to fuit ; to. pro-

To your decays adafts my fight.

A

am neither author or fautor of any fe£t I
will have no man addiEl himfelf to me
but if I
I

Dii3.

She fcorns to be addtem'd fo wortblefs-bafe,
As to be mov'd to fuch an infamy.
Banters Civil Wars.
A'dder. tt.f. [iErcep, JErzoy^, Nabbjie,
as it feems from eirtep. Sax. poifon.]

The dire rettraint his wlfdom will defeat.
And fjon reftore him to his regal f;at.
Pcpe.
A'dam's-apple. a./ [in anatomy.] A
prominent part of the throat.

1 5.

commonly taken in a bad fenfe ;

To devote one's felf to any perfon,
party, or perfuafion.
Latinifm.

efleem ;
out of nfe.

Pofe.

of the

Cor. xvi.

as , he addidcd himfelf to vice.
3.

[from deem.]
To
to account.
This word is now

To Adde'em.

And hell's grim tyrant feel th' eternal wound.

My

Cocker.

To Adde'cimate. -v. a. [addecimo, Lat.]

I

2. It is

that they

to the miniftry

faints.

of any quantity, he can repeat it, and add it to the
former, as eafily as he can add together the ideas ot
two days, or two years.
Locke.

Drydtn,

'Tis true, but let it not be known,
eyes are fomewhat dimmilh grown

Ye knew the houfe of Stephanus,

adding one number or conception to
another.
To add to is proper, but to
add together feems a folecifm.
Whatloever pcfitive ideas a man has in his mind,

Wide is the fronting gate, and raisM on high
With adamatil'uu columns, threats the (ky.

to

have addicted themfelves

But do an adt of friendrtiip to their own. Hoyden.
2. To perform the mental operation of

Adama'ktine. adj. \adamantinut, Lat.]
1. Made of adamant.

one thing to another ;

fenfe ;

They, whofe mufes have the higheft flown.

this paffage.

[addico. Lat.]
dedicate, in a good
which is rarely ufed.

To devote,

1.

Dryden.

Add not to his immortal memory,

This word occurs, perhaps, only in

[adapto, Lat.]

its handle, fo the addice hath its edge athwart
the handle, and is ground to a bafil on its infide to
its outer edge.
Moxcn's Meihaiiical Exercifes.

to
ni.

If to his words it adds one grain of fenfe.

Chalybean temperM ftcci, and irock of mail
M.Ucn.
Adair-antcan proof-

To ADA'PT. -v. a.

fpeak and write adz, from abej"e. Sax.
an axe.]
The addice hath its blade made thin and iomiim
what arching. As the axe hath its edge parallel

more ufually wrote accorporate ;

before.

He weapor.lefs himfelf,
Made arms ridiculous, ufelefs the forgery
Of brazen ihleld and fpear, the hammered cuirafs,

2.

[from ad and

which fee.

Saccn.

acquaintance.

-v. a.

To unite one body with an-

corpus.]

Shahfptare.

is true as fteel.

Adamante'an.

ADD

ADD

ADA

3.

In arithmetick.
Addition is the reduflion of two or more numbers of like kind together into one fum or total.
Cocker's Arithmetick.

4.

In law,

A title given to a man over

and above his chrillian name and furname, fhewing his ellate, degree, occupation, trade, age, place of dwelling.
Cewel/,
Only retain
The name, and all th' addition to a king ;

The fway, revenue, execution,
Beloved fons, be yours ; which to confirm,
Thii coronet part bctweeo you.
Siakefp, King Lear,

£ z

Frow

ADD

ADD

From this time,

and did adirefi
Itfetfrc motion, like at it would fpcak.

For wh»t he did before Corioli, call him,
With all th' applaufe and clamnurof the hoft,
Caius Marcius Coriolanus.
Bear th' aJdii'aa noShaktfpteris Ccrielanus.
There arofe new difputes upon the perfons
named by the king, or rather againft the aJJilm.s
and appellations of title, which were made to their

names.

2.

A'dditory.

adj.

[from

4.

Decay of Piety.

Are nat your orders to addrcji the fenate

Sometimes with to,
ylddriJJ'.ng to I'ollio,

his great patron, and

6.

Sometimes with the reciprocal pronoun ; as, he addrejfed him/elf to the general.

7.

8.

1.

Dryden.

To

This is alfo evidenced in eggs, whereof the
found ones fink, and fuch as are addled fwim; as
do alfo tbofe that are termed byfanewitc, or wind,
;

2,

Kill ivy, elfc tree will addle no more.
7uJ}ir^i Hujhardry.

A'ddle - PATED. adj.
brains.
See Addle.

Having addled

F'oor Daves in metre, dull and addle-fated.

Who rhyme below even David's pfalms traiiflatcd.

as to bear an exadl refemblance or pro-

Contingent death feems

to be the

whole ade-

quate objcti of popular courage ; but a neceflary
and unavoidable coflSn ftrikes palenefs into the

Harvey on Conjumptienf.

ftouteft heart.

The arguments were proper, adequate, and fufficienc to compafs their refpeflive ends.

South*
our fimple ideas arc adequate ; becaufe^
being nothing but the effcdts of certain powers in
things, fitted and ordained by God to produce
fuch fenfations in us, they cannot but be correfLocke,
pondent and adequate to thofe powers.
All

Thofe are adequate ideas, which perfeflly repreInadeijiiate are
fent their archetypes or objefis.
but a partial, or incomplete, reprefcntation of
thofe archetypes to which they arc referred,

Courtfliip.

They often have reveal'd their paffion to me

ffatts's L'pck.

:

But, tell mc, whofe addrefs thou favcur'ft moft 3
I long to know, and yet 1 dread to hear it.

A'DEqvATthY. ad'v. [from adejuate.]
1.

Addifen.

A gentleman, whom, I am furc, you yourfelf

4. Skill, dexterity.
I could produce innumerable inftances from my
own obfervation, of events imputed to the profound Ikill and addrefs of a miniftcr, which, in
reality, were either mere effefls of negligence,
wcaknefs, humour, paflion, or pride, or at beft

In an adequate manner; with juilnefs
of reprefcntation ; with exaftncfs of proportion.

would have approved, made his addrej/es to me.
Mdi_kn.

;

1.

to.

Verbal application to any one, by way
of perfuafion ; petition.
Henry, in knots involving Emma's name.
Had halfconfefs'd and half conceal'd his flame
Upon this tree and as the tender mark
Grew with the year, and widen'd with the bark,

Manner of addrefling another; as, we
Dryden. 3;
fay, a man of an happy or a pleafing adTo ADDRE'SS. v. a. [addreffer, Fr. from
a man of an aiuktuard addrefs.
drefs
derefar. Spaa, from dirigo, direSum,
Lat.]
To prepare one's felf to enter upon'any
a£lion ; as, he addrejfed bimfelf to the
•viiork.
It has to before the thing.
With him the Palmer eke, in habit fad,

portion. It is ufed generally in a figurative fenfe, and often with the particl»

Prior.

to increafe.

Where ivy embraceth the tree very fore.

to ; proportionate ; correfpondent to, fo

king in form.

Moft of the perfons, to whom thefe addnjjci
are made, are not wife and ficilful judges, but are
influenced by their own finful appetites and paffVatts^s Improvement of the Mind.
Jions.

Brm>n''s Vulgar Errours.

To grow

A'dequate. <z(^'. \_adeqi!atus,'L2iX.] Equal

Venus had heard the virgin's foft addrefs.
That, as the wound, the paflion might increafe.

Ten.

v. n.

Dryden.

To addrefs [in law] is to apply to the

;

to make bar-

.

I'aking away ; privation.
DiS.
Ade'pt. n. f. [from adeptus, Lat. that is,
adeptus artem.]
He that is completely
/killed in all the fecrets of his art.
It
is, in its original fignification, appropriated to the chymiils, but is now extended to other artills.
The prefervation of chaftity is eafy to true

'1 he
rcprefentatives of the nation in parliament, and tiie privy-council, addrtfs^d the U.\n^ to
have it recalled.
S'U'ift,
Addre'ss. n./. \addreffe, Fr.]

And all the reft is purely from this noddle.

Obfolete.

yra.^iD, Gr.]
A treatife of the glands.
A D e'm p T o N n.f. \adimo, ademptum, Lat.]

Sometimes with the accufative of the
matter of the addrefs, which may be
adepts.
Pope*
the nominative to the paffive.
The young hero had addrejjcd his ^ray^rs to Ade'pt. adj. Skilful; throughly verfed.
If there be really fuch adept philolophers as we
him for his afljftance.
Dryden.
are told of, I am apt to chink, that, among their
The prince himfelf, with awful dread pofiefs'd.
arcana, they are maders of extremely potent mcnHis vo-ius to great Apollo thus addrejl.
Dryden.
Beyle.
ftruums.
His fuitwjs common ; but, above the reft.
To both the brother-princes thus addrtjl.

eggs.

him-

fclf no vu'gur poet, he began to affert his native
character, which is fublimity.
Dryden.

thing.

A'ddle. V, a. [from addle, adj.]

.'

Adeno'craphy. n.f. [from aor.rc and
1

5.

according to Skinner and Junius ; perhaps from ybel, idle, barren, unfruitful.]
Originally applied to eggs, and
fignifying fuch as produce nothing, but
grow rotten under the hen ; thence
transferred to brains that produce no-

make addle ; to corrupt ;

Cttivdl.

adeling.

Addifon.

j^rLutbnot.

There's one with truncheon, like a ladle,
That carries eggs too frefli or addle ;
And fiill at random, as he goes.
Among the rabble rout beftows.
HuJiirat.
After much folitarinefs, fading, or long fickjiefs, their brains were addle, and their bellies as
empty of meat at their heads of wit.
Burton on Melancholy.
Thus far the poet ; but his brains grow addle:

Bacon s Henry y II.

Angles, properly appertaining to the
king's children : king Edward the ConfelTor, being without iflue, and intending to make Edgar his heir, called him

Sometimes without a prcpofition.
To fuch I would addrtfi with this moft affecAmong the crowd, but far above the reft.

enable him to fcrve fome good end or purpr.fe,

T<> A'ddle.

kings.

A'dei.inc. n.f. [from asbel. Sax. ill uf.
another by words, with
trious.]
A word of honour among the

Young Tu^nus to the beauteous maid addrtjl.

Bacon.

A'DDLE. adj. [from abel, a difeafe. Sax.

:

Thus did the French cmbafladors, with great
fliew of their king's affeftion, and many fugared
words, feek to addulec all matters between the two

tionate petition.

may further the

The ajdilory fi^ion gives to a great man a
larger (hare of reputation than belongs to him, to

^incj.
To AoDu'LCE.-f. a. [addoucir, Fr. dukis,
Lat.] Tofweeten a word not now in ufe.

To-morrow for the march we are addrifl.

Dryden.

That

The

A

.

v.irious forms of conftruftion.

fome-

arid.']

[horn addrefs.]

perfon that addrcfl'es or petitions.
A D d u't E N T adj. [adducens, Lat.] word
applied to thofe mufcles that bring forward, clofe, or draw together the pans
of the body to which they are annexed.

His brother here.
Shakrffeare'i Atyou like it.
To-night in flarflcur we will be your gueft.

To apply to

3.

which has the power or quality of add-

7'e

for

Addre ssER. »./.

Sbakeffeare.

Ailertury.
;

put in a ftate

They fell direillyon the Englifli battle ; whereupon the earl of Warwick addrejfed his men to
take the flank.
Hay-ward.
Duke Frederick hearing, how that every day
Men of great worth reforted to this foreft,
Addreji'd a mighty power, which were on foot.
In his c.wn condudt purpofcly to take

-

Addi'tional. n.f. Additament
thing added. Not in ufe.

To get ready ; to
immediate ufe.

Clarendon.

great force and clearnefs.

Drydrn.

jiddrefi'd bimfelf on foot Co fingle fight.

ADDi'xiONAL.fl/^'. {(lom aJditioB.'] That
which is added.
Our kalendar being once reformed and fct
right, it may be kept fo, without any confiderable variation, for many ages, by omitting one
leap-year; i. e. the addiiioiial day, at the end of
every 1 34 years.
thlder en Tune.
The greateft wits, that ever were produced in
one age, lived together in fo good an undetftanding, and celebrated one another with fo much generoCty, that each of them receives an addiiknal
luftre from his «otemporaries.
Add'ifcn.
Thty include in them that very kind of evi.
dence, which is fuppofcd to be powerful : and do,
withal, afford us fevcral other addiiknal proofs, of

chiefly mercantile.

Siakeff. Hamlet.

Then Turrut, from his chariot leaping light,

bly ever.

May be fome little adJitkr.al,
incorporation.

A D E
5. Manner of direfting a letter; afcnfe

It lifted up its head,

Gratitude confifts adequately in thefe two things >
that it is a debt; anJ, fecondly, that it it
fuch a debt as is left to every man's ingenuity,
whether he will pay or no.
South,
firft,

2.

h is ufed with the particle to.
Piety is the necelTary Chrifiian virtue, propor.
tioned adequately to the omnifcicnce and fpicituality of that infinite Deity.

Hammcntts Fundamentals,

A'dequateness. n.f. [from adequate."^
The llate of being adequate juftncfs of
;

)ciiai%M addreft It that advCDCure hard.

fmrjf S^et

but the natural coiufe of tbines left to Uiemfelves.
Sviift.

reprefentation ; exaftnefs of proportion.

Adespo'tick.

A D H
Adsspo'tick.

Not abfokte

adj.

Dm.

r» ADHE'RE. -v

n,

\adhttreo, Lat.]

To ftick to

as,

wax to the finger;

1.

:

with to before the thing.
3. To ftick, in a figurative fenfe
confiftent ; to hold together.

A D J

Adhefion is generally ufed in the
natural, and adherence in the metapho-

Adjecti'tious. ac^. [from ad/e<3ioH.']
Added thrown in upon the reft.
A'djective. n.f. [adjeBi'vutn, Lat.] A

thing.

not

;

defpotick.

A D J
as, the adhejton of iron to the

rical fenfe :

magnet ; and adherence of a client to his

to

dition

Why therefore may not the minute parts of

be

other bodies,

it

adbeji'tny ftick. to

Why every thing adhirci together, that no dram

Boyk,

modify their fignification, or intimate
the manner of exiftence in the things
flgnified thereby.
Clarke's Latin Gram,

The reft corfifting wholly in the fenfible con-

To remain firmly fixed 10 a party, per-

firmation, as fmooth and rough 5 or elfe more,
or lefs, firm adhcjion cf the parts, as hard and
fofc, tough and brittle, are obvious.
Locke.

fon, or opinion.
Good gentkmcn, hehzthmuch talk'd of you ;
And fur; I am, two men there are not living.

— Prove that all things, on occafionj
Love union, and defire adbcfion*
Prior,
2. It is fometimes taken, like adherence,

btiikeffeare'i T-.velfib Niglt.

Every man of lenfe

circuraftance, or manner of being ; as,
good, bad, are adjeBi'vei, becaufe, in
fpeech, they are applied to nouns, to

they be conveniently shaped icx
one another, as well as ftick to

this ipiric ?

lous or unfarc citcumftancc—

To whom he more adheres,

word added to a noun, to fignify the ador feparation of fome quality,

patron.

of a fcrup'.e, no'fcrjple of a fcniple, no incredu-

3.

;

Sbaiefp, Ham/et,
with me, that

figuratively, for firmnefs ia an opinion,
or Ileadinefs in a practice.
The fame want of Iincerity, the firae adbeficn

will agree

Angularity is laudible, when, in contradiftion t >
a multitude, it adbtres to the dictates of conBoyle,
fclence, morality, and honour.

to vice,

and

from

averfion

goodnefs,

wilt

be

Ail the verf:iica*ion of Claudian is included
within the compafs of four or five lines ; perpetually clofing his lenfe at the end of a vcrfe, and that
vcrf; commonly which they call golden, or two
fubltantivcs and two adjtclirjes, with a verb betwixt
them, to keep the peace.
Dryden,

A'djectively. ad'v, [from adjeili've.]
After the manner of an adjeftive
a
;

equally a reafon for their reje^ing any proof
term of grammar.
Adhe'rence. n, f. \ivova. adhere
See
whatfoevcr.
yitterbury,
Adieu', adv. [from a Bieu, ufed elliptiAdhesion.
Adhe'sive. adj. [from adhefion,'] Stickcally for a Dieu je "vous commende, ufed
1. The quality of adhering, or (licking;
ing
tenacious.
at the departure of friends.] The form
tenacity.
It" flow, yet fure, adbeji've to the tra£V,
.'\

;

In a figurative fenfe, fixednefs of mind ;

2.

fteadinefs ; fidelity.

Hot-fteaining «p,

To ADHl'BIT.

The tirm adherence of the Jews to their religion
IB no Icfs

dering

it

bait, a neccfiary ingredient in all facriiices, was

blem of purification.

A conftant adherence to one fort of diet may
jlrbulbr.'jt on j^/imerts.

Plain good fenfe, and a

Ne gave him leave to bid that aged fire
Adieu, but nimbly ran her wonted courfc.

adhibited and required in this view only as an em-

Add'iJQn.

have bad cC'cdls on any conflitution.

To

apply ; to make ufe of.

temarlcabie than their dilperiian ; coniias pcrfccuted or contemned o\cr the

whole earth.

of parting, originally importing a commendation to the Divine care, but nonf
ufed, in a popular fenfe, foipetimes to
things inanimate ; farewell.

Thomfon*

{adhibeo. Lat.]

o/. a.

Tairy Slucen,

Prefdint Forbei'i Letter to a Bijhal>.

Ufe

mor^ fpacious ceremony to the noble
you reflrained yourlelf within the lift of
too cold an ad.eu ; he more expreffive to them.

Adhibi'tion. n.f. [hoxnadhibit.] Application ; ufe.

Arm adbtrtnee to (he

Z);V?.

Adja'cency. n.f. [from adjaceo, Lat.]
1. The ftate of lying clofe to another thing.
Sviif:.
2, That which is adjacent.
See Adja[The fame with Wcent.

point, have proved m'Te effectual than tliole arts,
which are contemptuoufly called the fpirit ot regociating.

Adhe'rency. n.f.
herence.^
1.

Steady attachment.

2.

That which adheres.

Becaufe the Cape hath fea on both fides near
it, and other lands, remote as
equiit were,

Vices have a nat.ve adbertncy of vexation.
Decay tf Piety.

Adhe'rcnt.

adj.

[bom adhert,'\

Adhereitt or

improper

Milton*
Correftions or Improvements fliould be as re-

marks adjoin/d, by way of note or commentary,
in their proper places,

2.

To Adjo'in. v, n.

from

their companions and adjacenti, will not
confcnt to give countenance and colour to what
muft be fupported at any rate.
Locke.

adj.
[aJiaSoiJi©-, Gr.]
Neutrnl particularly ufed of fomefpirits
and falts, wldch are neither of an acid

or alkaline nature.

A new war mull be undertakcji upon the advice
a

perfon.

When they cannot fliake the main fort, they
mull

try if they can pnffefs thcmfelves of the
outworks, raife fome prejudice againll his difcietion, his humour, his ca riage, and his cttniific
etdhtrerti.
Government cf the Tongue.

Adhe'rer. a./, [from adhere.] He that
adheres.

He on lit to be indulgent to tender confcicncfsi
bur, at 'he fiinc timr, a firm adherer to the eftablirt.'d cliurch.
Sivifi.

Ad he's ION. n./. [adhef/io, Lat.]
The aft or ftatc of flicking to fome-

the liquor that
divers other bodies.
tilling

is

afforded by

l^y

affembled Creeks ex-

Dryden,
In learning any thing, as little fliould be propofed to the mind at once, as is poflible; and,
that being underftood and fully maftered, proceed
to the next adjoining, yet unknown, funpic, unperplexcd propofition, belonging
the ma ter ia
hand, and tending to the clearing what is princi--

dif-

woods and

n

Beyle.

AotA'tHORY. n.f. [aJia^ojia, Gr.] Neu-

pa'ly defigneil.

trality ; indifference.

To ADJE'CT. 1/. a. [adjicio, adjeHum,
Lat.] To add to ; to put to another
thing.

Adje'ction. n.f.

have nothing be-

tween.
Th' adjoining fane, th'

And hunting of the Caledonian heart.

^incy.

Oui- adiaphoroiit fpirit may be obtained,

of thofe, wh", with their partifans and adf erertif
wer« to be the fole gainers by it.
iiivift.

To be contiguous to

to lie next, fo as to

prefs'd.

;

Rate'i^h.

IVjus.

To fatten by a joint or junfture."
As a malfy wheel
Fixt on the fummit of the higheft mount.
To whofe huge fpoke ten thoufand leffer things
Are mortis'd and adjoined,
Shakej'feare,

That which lies next

The fcBfe of the author goes vilibly in its own

Princis muft give proteftion to their fubjefls
and aHiereaii, vihca worthy occalion /hall re<juire

and fupcradded to a regular

trcatife.

Adiaphorous,

of another ; a follower, a partifan.

to unite to ; to put to.
;
As one who long in populous city p.'nt
Forth ifiuing on a fummcr's morn to breathe

Among the pleafant villages and farms
Adjoind, from each tliiag met conceives delight.

upon fomc-

train, and the words receiving a determined fenfe

ports the caufe, or follows the forluue

Any thing outwardly belonging to

tt.f.

To join to

1.

another.

.

8

point, the

into the b dy adjacent.

Adja'ce^it.

Adhe'rent. n.f. [hovn adhere.']
The perfon that adheres ; one that fup1

it.

that

Bacin.
Uniform pellucid mediums, fuch as water, have
no fenfible refle^i.n but in their external fuperficies, where thzy are adjacent to other mediums
of a different dcolity.
Netuton,

water and the clctbes are difllndl t'ubllances which
adhere to the bowl, or to tA : boy.
/frt/.'j'j Logick.

1.

at

It may corrupt within Itfelf, although no part of
it iffue

modes arifc from the joining of fome accidcntil
fubftdncc to the chief fubjecl, which yet may be
feparated from it; fo when a bowl is wet, or a
boy is clothed, thefe are aJhereni modes; for the

2.

tliercforc,

Left yet my half-clos'd eye may view
On earth an objedt worth its care.
Priori
To Adjo'in. i». a. \_adjoindre, Fr. ad>afo, Lat.]

tbing.

Modes are f:iid to be inherent or adherent, that
proper or improper.

;

near or clofe ; bordering

United with.

is,

it

nut diltiatled by the vicinity of adjaBro^vn^s yulgjr Erroun.

Shake'fenre's W//"i •zueli ibat ends welf.

While now 1 take my laft adieu.
Heave thou no figli, nor ihed a tear

Adja'cikt. adj. [adjaceits, Lat.] Lying

Clofe to the cliff with both his hands he clung.
And ftuck adheyertt, and fufpended hung.
Pife.

2.

from
is

eenciet,

Sticking to.

1.

dillant

needle

a

lords;

[adjeOio, Lat.]

1.

'I'he aft of adjefting,

2.

The thing adjefted, or added.

or adiling.

Locke,

To ADJO'URN. 'v.a, [adjourner, Fr.]
I.

To put otf to another day, naming the
time ; a term ufed in juridical proceedings ; as, of parliaments, or courts
of juftice.
1 he queen being abfent, 'tis a needful fitnelsi

That we adjourn this court to further day=

That unto every poufd of fulphur, an adjeSlion

Sbakefpeare,

of jne ounce of qaickfiiVfr j or unto every pound
of pctre, one ounce of lal-amm' niac, will much

By the king's authority alone, and by 'lis writs,
they ari affembled, and by him alone are they

int-nd the force, and confequently the rrport,

prorogued and dilluived } but each lioufe may ad.,
journ itUif.
Bacon,

fijid

no verily.

J

Bnwn'i f^ulgar £rreuri.

z.

To

To put ofF; to defer ; to let flay to a
future time.
Then, Jupiter, thou king of gods,

a.

Leirn'mg is but tt\ adjunff to ourfelf.

ufe a term of logick)

only an adjunSi) not a
propriety, of happincfs.
Dryden,
The talent of difcretion, in its feveral adjunHs
and circumftances, is no where fo ferviccable as to
the clergy.
Snvift.

The graces for his merits due,
Being all to dolours turn'd.

Shairff, Cymh.
Crown high the goblets with chearful draught:
Enjoy the ptcfcnt hour, adjcurm the ftiture thought.

Dry den.

The formation of animals being foreign to my
purpofe, 1 Ihall adjourn the confidcrari'^n of it t
another occafion.
H^oodxoard's t/atural H'ljlory.

of fingular experience and truft) in foreign travels,
fVofton.
and in a bufinefs of love.

A'djunct.

difmilTion to

a future time.

We will and we will not, and then we will not

adj.

A paffage for

cured, the dead raifed, the oracles put to filence,
the dxmons and evil fpirits forced to confefs tfiemfelvcs no gods, by perfons, who only made ufe of
prayer and adjurations in the name of their crucified Saviour ;

And of religion, prcfs'd how juft it was,

How honourable.

His hands now free, thou venerable Iky
from whofe flames 1 fled.
Be all of vou adjured.
Dryden.
To ADJU'ST. 'V. a. \adj after, Fr.]
!

Ye facred altars

jtdjudg'd the empire of this globe to one. Ptillips.

To ientence, or condemn to a punifhBut though thou art adjudged to the death ;

our wants, fafter than the

mod viSiuift.

all

To reduce to the true ftate or Itandard

2.

;

to make accurate.
The name's of mixed modes, for the moft part,
want llaniiards in nature, whereby men may re^ify
and adjufi their fignification \ therefore they an-

Kncllcs.

rsADJU'DICATE. -v. a. [adjudico, Lat.]
To adjudge to give fomething contro-

very various and doubrfu'.

;

3. To make conformable.

verted to one of the litigants, by a fentence or decifion.
D J u D I c a't I o n . h. / [adjudicatio, Lat. ]
The aft of j lodging, or of granting
fomething to a litigai^t, by a judicial
fentence.

To A'djuoate. 'V. a. [adjugo, Lat.] To
to join to another by a yoke.

To
1.

adj.

[from adminicu-

That which gives help.

ADMl'NISTER. -v. a.

Diff.

[adminifro,

Lat.]
To give ; to afford ; to fupply.
I.ct zephyrs bland

Naught fear
warmth

prophecy, whoever reads the account given by Joiephus, without knowing his charadte., and compares it with what our Saviour foretold, would
think the hiftorian had been aChrlft'an, and that
he had nothing elfe in view, but to adjufi the event

Difdofes well the earth's all-tceming womb.

prediAion.

jiddif n.

I.

Regulation; the aft of putting in method ; fcttlement.
The farther and clearer adjufiment of this affair,
I

am conftraincd to adjourn to the larger treatife.
tfiidivard.

\

lum,h<iX.]

conformity is made.
As to the accomplilhment of this remarkable

Adju'stment. n.f. [adjiiftement, Fr.]

Something adherent or urtited to anthough not e^entially part of it.

Admi Ni'cuLAR.

Adminifler y

DiS.

otixer,

Lat.] The aft, or praftice, of meafuring
out to each his part.
Admi'nicle. n.f. [adminicuhm, Lat.]
Help ; fupport ; furtherance.
DiS.

Locke.

It requires the

Lat.]

A'DJUNCT. n.f. [adju>i3um, Lit.]

Admensu R a'tion. n.f. [ad ind menfura,

particle to before the thing to wliich the

to the

I.

to put in order ; to fettle

fionary projector can adjujl his fchemes.

fupplies

purpofing Hiarply to re\'enge the wrong he had rc-

\_adjumentum,

;

in the right form.
Your Lordlhip removes all cur difliculties, and

Yet I will favour thee in what I can.
Shakeff.
3. Simply, to judge ; to decree ; to determine.
He adjudged him unworthy of his friendfliip,

». /.

!

To regulate

1.

with to before the thing.

fupport.

MiJton.

'Ve lamps of heaven ! he faid, and lifted high

The great competitors for Rome,

;

their part.
It lieth in two cafes : one is
termed admeajurement of dower, where the widow
of the deceafed holdethfrom the heir, or his guardian, more in the name of her dower, than bclongeth to her.
The other is admeujurement of
pafture, which lieth between thofe that have common of paliure appendant to their freehold, or
common by vicinage, in cafe any one of them, or
more, do furcharge the common with more cattle
than they ought.
Ccwd/m
In fome counties they are not ipuch acquainted
\fhh admeafuremnl by acre; and thereby the writs
contain twice or thrice fo many acres mure than
the land hath.
Bacon*
thai!

Solicited, commanded, threaten'd, urg'd,
jidjur'd by all the bonds of civil duty.

Where ftern Bellona, with one final flroke,

Help

Admeajurement is a writ, which lieth for the
bringing of thofe to a mediocrity, that afutp more

And princes of my country came in perfon.

Locke*

A'djument.

ing to rule.

impole an oath upon another, prefcribing the form in which he (hall fwear.
Thou know'ft, the magiftrates

Cxfar and Pompey, on Pharfalian plains.

yoke to ;

the aft or praftice of meafuring accord-

how could they doubt of their Sa-

Mdifm on the Cbrifiian Religion.

on one topical argument j by the fuccefs
of which, victory is adjudged to the opponent,

A

Di3.

Admb'asuremEnt. n. /. [See Measure.] The adjuftment of proportions ;

ADJU'RE. -v. a. [adjuro, Lat.] To

To

DJ3.

To

help; to further; to put forward.

viour's power on the like occafions ?

[adjudico, Lat.]

ceivfd.

To A'djuvate. o;. a. [adjwvo, Lat.]

When thefe learned men faw ficknefs and frenzy

iifting

;

which helps.
Di^.
Adju'trix. »./ [Lat.] She who helps.

;

with the particle to before the perfon.
The way of difputing in the fchools is by in-

ment

j^juting to his company ;
And each one hath his livery.

Dia.

oath to another,
The form of oath propofed to another.

2.

To give the thing controverted to one
of the parties by a judicial fentence ;

z.

For there be
Six bachelors as bold as he,

Adju'tory. ad;, [ad/uteriiu. Lit.] That

That which is joined.

2.

Adi'tion. n.f. [from adeo, aJiium, Lat.]

or defendant.

1*. a.
[adju-vo, adjufum,
Lat.] To help ; to concur : a word not
now in ufe.

Adjura'tion. n.f. [ae/juratio, hat.]
A'djuvant. adj. [adjwvant. Lit.] Help,
The aft of adjuring, or propofing an
1
ufeful.
ful
Dia.

For conveying away the water, they ftand in aid
of fundry devices j as, ad'tis, pumps, and wheels,
driven by a llrtram, and interchangeably tilling and
Careiv>
emptying two buckets.
The delfs would be fo flown with waters (it being imj^olTible to make any adits or fouglis to drain
them) that no gins or machines could fulHce to lay
and keep them dry.
^ay,

I .

To ADJU'TE.

gether.

2.

the conveyance of water under ground ;
a palTage under ground in general ; a
term among the minemen.

7*0 Adju'dge. "v. a,

ff^aiti't Logiik,

duty is to ainit the major, by diftributing the pay, and overfeeing the punilhment, of the common men.

United with; imme-

The thing joined.
Adju'nctive. n./. [adjunSi'vut, Lat.]
A'oiTQVs.adj. \_aJipofus,'LaX.'\ Fat. Di3. r. He that joins.

The aft of going to another.

and adjufimentt of each part.

.

Ac this rate wc run our lives
out in adjournments from time to time, out of a
fantaftical levity that holds us off and on, betwixt
hawk and buzsard.
L^BJlrange.

^

:

Adju'nction. n.f. \adjun3io, Lat.]
BenJonftM't Undervioods,
\
The aft of adjoining, or coupling to- Adju'tor. »./ [aJJutor, Lit.] A helper.

again, and we will.

A'dit. rt.f. [adirui, Lat.]

Ihew the hour
but it is a learned idea which the
watch-maker has of it, who knows all the feveral
parts of it, together with the various connexions

diately confequent.
So well, that what you bid me undertake.
Though that my death were adjunli to my afl,
I'd do "t.
Sbakefp. King John,

Q/tveli.

Delay ; procrafUnation ;

It is a vulgar idea we have of a watch or cloclc,
when we conceive of it as an inftrument made to

rarely occurs.
He made him the aObciate of his heir-apparent,
together with the lord Cottington (as an adjurd

when the jultices in eyre mean to fit again.

.

is

regulated.

A perfon joined to another. This fenfe A'djutant. n. /. A petty officer, whofe

2.

Adjo'urnment.w./ [adjournement, Fr.
I. An aflignment of a day, or a putting
off till another day.
Mjiurnmtnt in tyre, an appointment of a day,

The ftate of being put In method, or

2.

And where wc arc, our learning likewife is* Shak.
But 1 make hafte to connder you as ab(lra£)ed
from a court, which (if you will give me leave to

Why hail thou thus adjourned

3.

ADM

AD J

A D J

tepid genial airs ;
i.c

from the

welt,

whofe gentle

Pbilifs.
2.

To aft as the minifter or agent in an^r
employment or

office ; generally, but
not always, with fome hint of fubordination
as, to adminifter the govern:

ment.
For forms of government let fools contefl,
Whate'er is beft adninifler'd, is bell-.
Pofe,
to diflribute
3. To adminiller juflicej

right.

4.

To

To admlnifter the facraments, to dlfpenfe them.
Have not they the old popifh cuftom of adtrini-

4.

did hold It in his own right, or as admmfirator to

2.

To adminifter an oath

;

as it is wanted.

was carried on men's ihoulders, adminijlering
phylick and phlebotomy.
Wafcri Voyage.
7. To adminifter to ; to contribute ; to
bring fupplies.
1

I rouft not omit, that there is a fountain rifing

in the upper part of my garden, which forms a
little wandering rill, and adminiflirs to the pleafure,
SpeSItitor.
as well as the plenty, of the place.

8.

See Aoministrator.

feel

Indu'd with human voice, and human fenfe,
Reafonjng to admiration.
Milton*
The paftions always move, and therefore, confequently, pleafe ; for, without motion, there can
be no delight : which cannot be confidercd but as
an aftive palfion.
When we view tho^ elevated
ideas of nature, the refult of that view M admira~
tioit, which is always the caufe of pleafure.
Dryden.
There is a pleafure in admiration, and this is

my confclence bound to remember the

fome fociety of Chriftians or
other, Cnce it is a moft plain command j whether
the perfon, who diftributes thcfe elements, be
only an occafional or a fettled adminijfrator.
Watt:.

He that condufts the government.

3.

The rcfidence of the prince, or chhf adttiim^raror of the civil

power.

Sioift,

Admi'nistr ATRix. ti, /. [Lat.]
She
who adminillers in confequence of a

that which properly caufeth admiration, when we
difcover a great deal in an objedl which we underftand to be excellent} and yet we fee, we know

will.

nn how much more beyond that, which our un-

Administra'torship. n.f. [from «^The office of adminiHraminiftrator,'\

derftandings cannot fully reach and comprehend.
Tillotfon.

2.

tor.

Admirabi'lity. n,f. \admirabilis, Lat.
The quality or ftate of being admira-

To perform the office of an adrainiftrator« in law.

He that officiates in divine rites.
I

Dia,

ble.

A'dmirable.

Neal's order was never performed, becaufe the

adj.

[admirabilis,

•Arbuthnot and Pope,

Lat.]

To exhibit

;

1/.

«.

\adminiftro,

Not in ufe.
They have the fame effefts in medicine, when

Administra'tion. n.f. [aJminiftratio,

.

feveral

the public affairs ; difpenling the laws.

lives of chriftians.

other phllofophers
Short, I conftfs, of
the rules of chriftianity, but generally above the

then did ufe the perfon of your fjther

A'dmirablv.

adni,
[from admirable.]
So as to raife wonder ; in an admirable
manner.

Dry'dtti,

The aftive or executive part of governminiftrai'um cannot be placed in too few hands,

to

nor

Stvift,

whom the care

of public affairs is committed ; as, the
adminiftration has been oppofed in par-

your voice as high as you pleafe, there is nothing
like an echo to caufe the leaft crmfufion.
Mdifcr..

A'DMIRAL. ». y:

of un.

Fr,

certain etymology.]

liament.
4. Dillribution ; exhibition ; difpenfation.
There is, in facraments, to be obferved their
force, and their form of adminifiratioH,
Hocker,

By the univerfal admini/lrathn of grace, begun
by our blelTed Siviour, enlarged by his apoftles,
carried on by their iromediaic fuccefTors, and to
be completed by the reft to the wo-ld's end j all
types that darkened this faith are enlig'itcned.
•Sprat's St-rm'jnt,

Administrative.

[amiral,

aJj.

[from admini-

That which adminillers; that
by which any one adminillers.

ftraie.'\

Aduinistra'tor. n.f, \adminiflrator
Lau]
1. Is properly uken for him that has the
goods of a man dying inteftate committed to his charge by the ordinary,
and is accountable for the fame, whenever it fhail pleafe the ordinary to call
upon him thereiinto.
Conuell.
He was wonderfully diligent to enquire and obferve what became of the king of Arragon, in
hoUijig Che kingdom of Caftille, and whether he

1.

An officer or magiftrate

that

has

To wonder

admird at his own contrivance. Ray on the Creation.

with admiration.
Neither Virgil nor Horace would have gained
had they not been the friends
and admirers of each other.
Addijoti.
Who moft to (hun or hate mankind pretend.
Seek an admirer, or would lix a friend.
Pope.
fo great reputation,

2,

In common fpeech, a lover.

AoMi'RiKGLY.ad-v. [from admire,] With
admiration ; in the manner of an admirer.

The king very lately fpoke of him admiringly
and mournfully. Sbakrfp. All's ivelltbatendsivill.

We may yet further admiringly obfervc, that men

well civil as criminal, belonging to the

ufually give frcelieft where

fea.

before.

Coxuell.

He alfo, in battle at fea, overthrew Rcdericuj
in which fight the
admiral, with his fon, were both flain, and feven
of his gallies taken.
Knolles.
Make the fea (nine with gallantry, and all

fclf Wis,

by great mifchance, ftruck upon

Boyle*

Suppofe that this fuppofition were admijfible, yet
would not any way be inconliftent with the
eternity of the divine nature and e(rence.
this

Hale's Origin of Mankind^

Admt'ssion. n.f, [admi^o, L3.t.]
1

The aft or praftice of admitting.
There was alfo enacted that ciiaritable law, for

a fand.

the admi£ion of poor fuitors without fee ; whereby
poor men became rather able to vex, than unable

Knolles.

to fue.

A'dmiralship. ». / [from admiral.]
The office or power of an admiral.
A'dmi RALTY. 11./. [amiraulle, Fr.] The
power, or officers, appointed for the adminiftration of naval affairs.

Aumira'tion, a./,

they have not given

Admi'ssible. adj. [admitio, admijfum,.
Lat.] That which may be admitted.

Rotundus, admiral of Spain,

The Englilh youth (lock to tUc'n admiral. fVaikr.
3. The fhip which carries the admiral or
commander of the fleet.
The admiral galley, wherein the emperor him-

fome-

Admi'rer. 71,/, [from admire.]
1. The perfon that wonders, or regard*

the

The chief commander of a fleet.

J

The eye is already fo perfect, that I believe the
reafon of a man would eafily have refted here, and.

government of the king's navy, and the
hearing and determining all caufes, as

2.

'v.n.

times with the particle at.

The theatre is the moft fpacious of any I ever
faw, and fo admirably well contrived, that, from
the very depth of the ftage, the loweft found may
be heard diftin£tly to the fart he ft part of the audience, as in a whifpering place j and yet, raife

ment.
It may pafi for a maxim in ftate, that the ad-

more familiar

It is ufed, but rarely, in an ill fenfe.
You have difplac'd the mirth, broke the good
meeting
With moft admir'd iiCorder.
Shakefp. Macbeth.

To Admi're.

power of raifing wonder.

RuQian fummer, he ripened the fruits of poetry in

3. Colleftively, thofe

Drydin.

The quality of being admirable ; the

Shakrfpeare.

the legiflature in too many.

:

A'dmirableness. n,/. [from admirable.']

In the rtiort time of hii adminjftratiottt he ihone
fo powe- fully upon me, chat, like the heat of a

It is fometimes ufed, in

fpeech, for to regard 'vtith lo've.
3.

Soutb'i Sermotii.

But you would fpoil an admirible friend.

Your highnefs pleafcd to forget my place.

a cold clima'c.

2.

!

You can at moft
To an indiff rent lover's praife pretend

:

While I was bufy for the commonwealth.

2.

Glanville*

What admiraili things occur in the remains of

The aft of adminiflering or condufting
any employment ; as, the condufting
I

generally in

did teftify that they ferved him not in vain.

Hooker,

The image of his power lay then in me
And in th' admtn'ijl ration oi \\\i law,

:

'Tis here that knowledge wonders, and there is
an admiration that is not the daughter of ignorance.
This indeed ftupidly gazeth at the unwonted effe& i but the philofophic paftion truly
admires and adores the fup.cme efficient.

working their admirable deliverance,

Lat.]
1.

To regard with wonder

God was with them in all their adiiitions, and,
at length, by

Dryden,

[admiro, Lat. ad-

a.

a good fenfe.

Sidney,

inwardly admtmjirated to animal bodier.
Wo'^dvjard,

thought lit to be a fecond prey ?

mirer, Fr.]
1

to perfons or things.
The more power he hath to hurt, the more adm'lrakle is his praife, that he will not hurt.

to give as phyfick.

I

To ADMI'RE. v.

;,

To Admi'nistrate.

taken fometimes in a bad fenfe,
though generally in a good.
Your boldnefs I with admiration fee ;
What hope had you to gain a queen like me?
Becaufe a hero forc'd me once away.
It is

Am

Lat.]
To be admired worthy of admiration ;
of power to excite wonder : always taken in a good fenfe, and applied either

executors durft not adminijler.

Wonder; the aifl of admiring or wondering.

tleath of Chrift, with

to propofe or

require an oath authoritatively ; to tender an oath.
Swear by the duty that you owe to heav'n.
To keep the oath that wc adminifter, Shakefpeare.
6. To adminifler phyfic j to give pnyfic

1.

Bacon's Henry VH.

his daughter.

Jl'ring the bleiTcd facrament of the holy eucharift
Hosier.
with wafer-cakes ?

5.

ADM

ADM

ADM

[admiralio, Lat.]

Bacon's Henry VII*

By means of our folitary (ituation, and our rare
admf£ion of ftrangers, wc know molt part of the
habrtable world, and arc ourfclves unknown.
Bacon's Ne^u Atalantii

2.

The ftate of being admitted.
My father faw you

ill

deligns purfue

A«d jny admillm fljow'd his feat of you.

Dryden.

.

Cri «iid tlwn tjcrcife man's hopts with the expcfijiions of a btttcr paruJifi', or i more intimitr
Staib't Strmeni.

^dmij/icK to himfelf.

Our kin; defcendi from Jove i
Aod hither are we come by bis command,

J.

To crave iutwtjjittt in your happy land.
Dryden,
3. Admittance ; the power of entering, or
being admitted.
All finings have fome degt« of heat, none ever
freezing, no not in the longeft and fevereft frofts
efpeclally thofe, where there is fuch a fite and difpofition of the ftrata as gives free and cafy adWixdiUard'% Natural IliJIoiy.
mffan to this heat.

4. {In the ecclefiaftical law.] It is, when
the patron prefents a cierk to a church
that is vacant, and the bi(hop, upon
examination, admits and allows of fuch
clerk to be fitly qualified, by faying,
AJmitto ie habilem.
Ayliffe' s Parergon.
5. The allowance of an argument ; the
grant of a pofition not fully proved.

To ADMI'T. 1'. a.

9.

[aJmitto, Lat.]

To fuifer to enter

to grant entrance.
;
Mirth, admit me of thy crew.
Milton.
Does not one table Bavius ftill cdmit T
Pipe.

1.

To fufFer to enter upon an office ; in
which fenfe the phrafe of admijpon into a
eollege. Sec. is ufed.

The trcafurcr found it no hard matter fo far to
terrify hiiri, that, for the king's fervice, as

was

pretended, he admitted, for a fix-clerk, a pcrfcn
recommended by him.
C/arindm.

To allow an argument or pofition.

3.

Suppofe no weapon can thy valour's pride
Subdue, that by no force thou may'ft be won,
jUmt no ftcel can hurt or wound thy fide,
And be it hcav'n bath thee fuch favour done.
Fairfax,

This argument is like to have the lefs effcit on
tne, feeing I cannot eafily admit the inJcrence.

Loch.

4.

ADO

ADM

ADM

To allow, or grant in general j fometimes with the particle of.
If you once admit if a latitude, that thoughts

ef

receive them.

not unncccifaiy.

Loeie.

now

redouble their fault, and to ll':cp again ; fo that,
upon a fccond and third admomticr, they had nothing to plead for their unfcalbnabl; drowfinel";.
Sc!irb*s Sermons,

mitted to great perfons :
out of ufe.

a fenfe

Sir John, you are a gentleman of excellent
breeding, of great admiilanci, authentick in your
place and perfon, generally allowed for your many
warlike, couttllke, and learned preparations.
Sbakefpeare.

4. Conceflion of a pofition.
Nor could the Pythagorean give eafy admittance
thereto j for, holding that fcparate fouls fucceffivcly fupplied other bodies, they could hardly allow the raifiog of fouls from other worlds.

Btztvn's Vulgar Errours.

To

To Adui'x. ni, a. [adnti/ceo, Lat.]
mingle with fometbing elfe.

Admi'xtion. n.f. [from ezdtnix.] The
of one body with another, by
mingling them.
All metals may be calcined by ftrong waters,
union

moon.
There is no way to make a ftrong and vigorous
Glanville.

powder oi faltpetre, without the admixtion of fulBmvns Vulgar Errct/n.
phur.

Admi'xtore. »./. [from admix.]
body mingled with another

;

The

To ADMO'NISH. -v. a. {admoneo, Lat.]
To warn of a fault ; to reprove genagainft

wrong

prac-

duty ;

Admi'ttable. adj. \ixom admit. The
perfon or thing which may be admitted.

which

is

Decay of Piety.
He e/* their wicked ways
Shall them admonip, and before them fet
Milton.
The paths of righteoufnefs.
But when he was admowjhcd by his fubjeCl to
down,
he
came
gently
cirdiiig
in
the
air,
defcerdf
Drydcii.
and finglng, to the ground.

another in mind of his faults or duty.

folemn admittance is of fuch neceflity, that, without
it, there can be no church-polity.
Hooter.
A» to the admittance of the weighty elaftic parts
ef the air into the blood, through the coats of
the veffels,*! feems contrary to experiments upon
deaJ bodies.
jlrtuthnct on Alimentu

i.

The power or right of entering.
What

—

If I do line one of their hands
'tis gold
Which buys admittarce.
Staieffeare'i CymMint.
.'

Surely a daily expectation at ihc £jtc, is
the
readied way to gain admittance into the houfc.

Souths Sermons.
_,
There's news from Bertran ; he dcfircs
Admittance to the king, and criti aloud,
TJ»s day liaU end our fears.
Dryden.

fit

[admurmtiro,

Lat.] The aft of murmuring, or whifpering to another.
Z)/.-7.
To Admo've. v. a. \_admovco, Lat.] To
bring one thing to another.
word
not in ufe.
if, unto the powder of loadftone or iron, wc oif-

A

m'-vc the north-pole of the loadllooe, the powders,
cr fmall divifions, will ercdt and conform them-

Brown's Vulgar Errcurs.

Ado', n.f. [from the verb to do, with a
before it, as the French affaire, from i.
aadfaire."]

Trouble, difficulty.

I.

He took Clitophoii prifoner, whom, with mucK
ado, he keepeth alive; the Helots being viKain-

Sidney,

oufly cruel.

They moved, and in the end pcrfuaded, with
much ado, the people to bind themfelves by folemn
Hooker,

oath.

He kept the borders and marches of the pale
with much adoj he held many parliaments, wherein
Sir fohn Davics,
fundry laws were made.
With much ado, he partly kept awake
repofe
to
take.
Dryden,
Not fufTring all his eyes
z.

Horace was a mild admonijher ; a

court-fatirifl

for the gentle times of Augudus.

Dryden.

\from admoniff}.']
Admonition ; the notice by which one
a
is put in mind of faults or duties
tt.

f.

Euftle ;

tumult ;

bufinefs ;

fometimes

with the particle about.

ikilful piece of ingenuity.

Admo'nishmsnt.

ft./,

'

One of his cardinals, who better knew the intrigues of aft'airs, adm:n\Jixd him againji that un-

.']

which Uilcth .'hould take
church; and th-refbrc a

Hookir.

Admurmur a'tion.

infinitive

Admo'nisher. h. /. [from admonijh.']
Admi'ttance. n.f. [(rom admit
The perfon that admoniflies, or puts
1. The aft of admitting ; allowance or

in the

The fcntence of reafun is either mandatory,
ihewing what muft be done ; or elfe permillive,
declaring only what may be done j or, thirdly, ad'
monitory, opening what is the moll convenient for

mood of a verb.

cannot enter any man's conceit to think it

.

That which admonifhes.

to

more rare ; or the

fcr\c,

Hooker,
.

felves thereto.

Whatever acrimony, or amaritudr, at any time
redounds in it, niuft be derived from the admixture
of another Iharp bitter fubftance.
Harijey en Confumptions.
A mafs which to the eye appears to be nothing
but mere finople earth, Ihall, to the fmell or taftc,
difcover a plentiful a(/mixr«r? of fulphur, alum, or
fome other mineral. fVoodward's Natural Hijl-^ry.

to counfel

own difcrction did

like.

fometimes the aft of mingling.

;

his

their defender, and his all'ociatcs, have fithence
piopofcd to the world a form as themfclves did

perhaps

Drydtn.

upon him charge

liberty "to pray, as

us to do.

Bacon.
The elements at« no where pure in thcfe lower
regions ; and if there is any free from the admixtion of another, fure it is above the concave of the

to mine.

lawful, that every man

A

Albeit the admtniticners did fcem at firft to lik*
no prcfciipt form of prayer .it all, but thought it
the bed that their minifter Jhould always be left at

or by admixtion of fait, fulphur, and mercury.

put in mind of a fault or a
with the particle of, or againjl,

It

A

liberal difpenfer of admonition ; a
ludicrous term.
general advifer.

I

tices ;

permilTion to enter.

Admoki'tioner. n.f. [from adntenition.']

A D M o' N T o R Y adj. [admotittoriuj, Lat ]

tly

The clerk, who is prcfcnted, ought to prove to
the bllhop, that he is a deacon, and that he has
orders j otherwife, the bifliop is not bound to admit him ; for, a> the law then ftood, a deacon was
4idmittatle.
yiynfe's Parergon.

Ilcoitr.

From this admonition they took only occafion to

that leads you infenfibly from your own principles

Btciufe they have not a bladder like thofe wc
cfcf::rvein others, they have no gall at all, is a parilogifm not admiitabli, a fallacy that nceis not
the fun to fcatter it.
Bmvn.

fouls, to

more neccfiary thingr, aJa-nition concerning thcfe

Cuftom, or prerogative, of being ad-

may be exalted, and images raifed above the life,

"]

fometimes with othee

intermingle

There are fome ideas which hitt adp:!tt:!net on^y
through one fenfe, which is peculiarly adapted to

Let's follow, to fi.e the end of this ado, Sbaiefp,
All this ado about Adam's fatherhood, and the
greatnefs of its power, helps nothing to cttablifh

the power of thofe that govern.

3.

It has a

Locke,

light and ludicrous fenfe, im-

plying more tumult and (how of bufinefs,
in this fenfe it
than the affair is worth
is of Lite generally ufed.
I made no more ado, but to:ik all their feven
:

S'.^ak./p. Henry IV.
points in my taigct, thus.
We'll keep no great ado^^^a friend or twoIt m.iy be thought wc held him ca:elcfsly,

Being our kinfman, if wc revel much.
Sbatefp,
Come, fays Pufs, without any more ado, 'tis
time to go to breakfafi ; cats don't live upon dia-

:

word not often ufed.
But yet be wary in the ftudious care.—
—Thy grave admonijhments prevail with me.
Siakfpeare's HetryV. p, i.
To th' infinitely Good wc owe
Immortal thanks, and his admonijhment
Receive, with folemn purpofe to obfcrvc
Immutably his fuv«rcign will, the eud

Of what we are.

Milicn,

Admoni'tion. ». f. [aJmon'tio, Lat.]
The hint of a fault or duty ; counfel
gentle reproof.
They muft give our teachers leave, for the laving

logues.

L'EJtrange,

Adolk'scence. \n.f. \adolefceiitia, Lat.]
Adole'scency. i The age fucceeding
childhood, and fucceeded by puberty ;
more largely, that part of life in wKich
the body has not yet reached its full perfedion.

He was fo far from a boy, that he was a man
born, and at his full ftaturc, if we believe Jofe,
phus, who places him in the \i!i adoUfuncy, and
Brown^
makes him twenty-five years old.
, The fons muft have a tedious time of childhood
and aiolefccncc, before they can either tiismftlves
ajr.a

ADO

ADO
their parents, or encourage them with new
Beniley.
hows of poflerity.
To ADCyPT. %: a. {adopto, Lat.]
1, To take a fonby choice ; to make him
a fon, who was not fo by bixth.
Were none of all my f» ler's fiftera left;
sflift

i«t6rnal adoration at all.

2.

relation, than tbey

have by nature,

Thou trcad'ft, with leraphims, the vaft abyfs.
Dryden,

We are feldom at eafc from the foUcitacion of
our natural or adopted delires ; but a conrtant fucccfiinn of uneafinclTes, out of that (lock, which
natural wants, or acquired habits, have heaped up,

Art thou nought elfe but place, degree, and form,
Creating awe and' fear in other men ?
Wherein thou art lefs happy, being, fear'd,:
Than they in fearing.
What drink'ft thou oft, inftcad of homage fweet,

But poifin'd flattery ?

manner of fomething adopted.

ration ; worfhip

He that adores

1

:

Adre'ad. adii. [from a and dread
frighted ; terrified

He

that

is

adopted by another, and

;

kill (b great a prince.

1/. a.

Of paradife, by might of wares, be mov'd
Out of his place, puih'd by the horned Hood;
With all his verdure fpoii'd, and trees adrift
Down the great river, to tlie opening gulf,
And there take root.
Mi!t9n%

be fo

his fon.

Vet 'tis not to adprn and gild each part,
That Ihcws more coft than art

An adopted fon cannot cite bis adoptive father
That

2.

A gallery adorned with the piftures or ftatues ot
the invention of things ufeful to human life. Citvley,

On thefc two, the love of God, and our neighbour, hang both the law and the prophets, fays
the adorable Author of Chriftianity ; and the
Apoftle fajs, the end of the law is charity. Cheyne.

Ado'r ABLENESS. n. f. [from odoraLle.]

The quality of being adorable ; worthinefs of divine honours.

Aoo'rably. adii. [from adoraiie.]

In a

Cvzvfey.

To fet out any place or thing with decorations.

which ought to be adored ; that which
IS worthy of divine honours.
3.

Loche on Educatioftf

JDRO'ir.

I'liis will fupply men's tongues with many new
things, to be named, adorned, ind dcfcribcd, in
their difcourfc.
Sprat.

Adroi'tness. ».y; [from adroit.]
terity }
this

VO L. I.

Dex-

Neither

aftivity.

word, nor adroit, feem yet com-

in want of drink.
never told any of them,

Athirft;

tbirfty ;

He

he was hia
and would
rather be thought a malecontcnr, than drink the
king's health when he was not adry.
SpeElator.
tlial

humble fcrvant, but his well-wi(hcr

;

Adsciti'tious. adj. [adj'citittus, Lat.]
That which is taken in to complete
fomething elfe, though originally extrinfick ; fupplemental ; additional.
Adstri'ction. n. f. [adJiriSio, Lat.
The aft of binding together ; and applied, generally, to

medicaments and
power of

applications, which have the
making the part contraft.

To ADVA'NCE. rv. a. [avancer, Fr.]
1. To bring forward, in the local fenfe.

Now morn, her rofy fteps in th' cadern clime
Advancing, fow'd the earth with orient pearl.
flfilton.

2.

her (hows,

Made fo adorn for thy delight the more. Milton.
Ado'rkmHnt. n./. [from adorn.] Orna-|
nient ; embelliihment ; elegance : not

now in ufe.
This attribute waj not givjn to tJie earth, while

To raife to preferment

;

to aggrandize.

He hath been ever conftant in his courfe of ad.,
vancing me ; from a private gentlewoman he
made me a marchionefs, and from a marchlonefs a
queen ; and now he intends to crown my innocency
with the glory of martyrdom.
Bacon.
The declaration of the greatnefs of Mordecai,
whercunto the king advanced him.
EJihir, x. c,

'

Hooker..

readinefs ;

Adry'. adii. [from a andi dry .]

:

It is poffible to fuppofe, that thofe who believe

apparently againft
Jervat'i Don ^itixote.

juftice

him the whole time.

Ado'rn. adj. [from the verb.] Adorned;
AdOra'tion. n./. [adoratio, Lit.]
decorated a word peculiar to Milton.
i. The external homage paid to the Divi-

external adoration.

Dextrous j

An adroit ftout fellow would fometimes deftroy

Thoufands there arc in darker fame that dwell,

all

[French.]

a whole family, with

Whofe names fome nobler poem (hall adorn j
For, tho' unknown to me, tlicy fure fought well.

She'll to realities yield

adj.

aftive ; fkilful.

of language.

Dryden.

nity, diftinft from mental reverence.
S>lemn aad ferviceable worfhip we name, for
d.ftindion /ake, whatfoever bclongeth to the!
church, or publick focicty, of Cod, by way ot

Dryden,
keep

will

minds from running adrift, and call their
thoughts home from ufelcfs unattentive roving.

To embellifh with oratory or elegance

manner worthy of adoration.

.'

pletely naturalized.

ljeiah,\x\. 10.

Jewels at nofc and lips, but ill appear.

Ayhffe's Parcrgon.

refleftion

their

ments, and as a bride adornctb hcrfelf with her
jewels.

feem'd a corps adrift to didant fight

The cuftom of frequent

nefs, as a bridegroom dcckcth hiinfelf with orna-

He that adopts another, and makes him

[adorable, Fr.]

It

But at a diftance who could judge aright

[adorno, Latin.]

To drefs ; to deck the perfon with ornaments.
He hath clothed me with the garments of falvation, he hath covered me with the robcof rjghteouf-

1

and abfoiute as an hereditary ; no more than
it is poflible for a father to have fo full power and
in;ereft in an adopii-vt fon, as in a natural.
Bac.n.

Ado'rable. adj.

Sidney,

drive.]
Floating at random i. as any
impulfe may drive
Then, (hall this m«unt

Clarendon.

free

into court, without his leave.

now obfolete.

one an enemy., who would not fparc, nor fear to

a worfhippcr ; a term

in a ferious fenfe.
;
He was fo levere an adorer of truth, as not to
dilfemble ; or to fufrer any man to think that he
would do any thing, which he refolved not to do.

made his fon.
It is impnflible an cleftlvc monarch fhould

as,

And thinking to make all men adreadto fuch*

A worfhipper

2.

To ADO'RN.

[adoplivtts, Lat.]

:

-y

In a ftate of fear ;

ajide, athirji, ajleep.]

a word fcarcely ufed.

Being fo far provoked as I was in France, I
would abate her nothing ; though I profcfs myfelf
her adorer, not her friend. Skahfpeare^t Cymbdine.
Whilft as th' approaching pageant does appear,
And echoing crowds fpeak mighty Venus near
I, her adorer, too devoutly fland
Fail on the utmoft margin of the land.
Prior.

at ; and I fliall not only receive this villainous
wrong, but ftand under the adoption of abominable
terms, anS by him that does me the wrong.

2.

In this remembrance Emily ere day

generally ufed in a low fenfe ; as, by
lovers, or admirers.

The ftate of being adopted.
My bed (hall be abufed, my reputation gnawn

Ado'ptive. adj.

Fitiry ^een,
towards the

Arofe, and drefs'd herfelf in rich array;
Fre(H as the month, and as the morning fair,
Adotvn her fhouldcrs fell her lengthof hair, Drydeiti.

henCons with fouth-faying, and fuch oblique idolatries, and won their credulities to the literal and
downright edorement of cats, lizards, and beetles.
Brti'tunt Vulgar Errours.

[adoptio, Lat.]

Shakcjpure.
She purpos'd,
When (he had fitted you with her craft, to work
Her fon into th'ijrf»/)/»)iof the crown. SbaieJ'paire.
In every att of our Chriftian worihip, we are
taught to call upon him under the endearing charafler of our Father, to remind us of our adoption,
that we are made heirs of God, and joint heirs of
Chriil.
J?9jfm'j Set^ons.

Down;

prep.

ground j from a higher fituation to*
wards a lower.

The aft of adopting, or taking to one's Ado'rer. »./ [from adore.]

felf what is not native.

1.

Ado'wn.

The priefts of elder times deluded their apprc-

fon.

2.

Thrice did (he fink hdoivn in deadly found.

And thrice he her rcviv'd with bufy pain.

Ado'rement. n.J". [h&m adore.l Ado- Adri'ft. adhi. [from a and drift, from

Ad'.ptfdly^ as fchool-maids change their names,

)i./.

;.

on the ground.

T<r//fr, N" 57.
prince oi/ariBj God.
Make future times thy equal aft adore.
And be what brave Orcflss was before.
Pcpe^t Odyffey.

L^cle.

Sb^iidpi:.lr:,
By vain, though apt, aftcdion.
Ado'pter. 71./. [from adopt.] He that
gives fome one by choice the rights of a

1.

Skakejpeare's Cymbeline.

Ado'wn. ad'v. [from a and donx/n.] Down

S kakefpeare't- Henry V.

.;

To ADO'RE. -J. a. [adoro, Lat.]
To worfhip with external homage ; to
pay divine honours.The mountain nymphs and Themis they adore,
DrydenAnd from her oracles relief implore.
2. It is ufed, popularly, tO' denote a high
degree of reverence or regard ; to reverence ; to honour ; to love.
The people appear adorirtg their prince,' and their

Ado'ptedlv. a</i;. [{rom aJofted.'] Af-

Ado'ption".

Raleigh's Hi/lory of the IVorld.

She held the very garment of Hofthumus in moi-e
refpeft than my nobb and natural perfon, together
with the adornment of my qualities.

1

Or, in proceflion fix'd and regular,
Mov'd with the hcav'ns majellic pace;
Or cdird to more celeilial blifs,

ter the

StillingJI.e'.

Homage paid- to perfons in kigh place
O ceremony, fltew me but thy worth
What is thy tolli O ar/nriirij/;/

to

Thou roirft above us in thy wand'ring race.

take the will in their turns.

was confufed ; nor to the heavens, before they
had motion and ador/jment.

!t

or efteem.

Navi were I of my mother's Icin bereft;
None by an uncle's or a grandame*s Hcie,
Drydcn.
Yet I could fome adopted heir provide.
2. To place any perfon or thing in a nearer

foraething elfe.
Whether, ad<ff>ud to fomc neighboring ftar.

A D V

may yet ^ive him no

a fupreme excdlent Being,

3.

To improve
What lawi caa be advifed o»we proper and ef.
f
ftftual

A.

DV

A D V

fcdual to«/v«m tJM nature of nan to ittliighen'
Tilhtfan.

To heighten

;

As
much more advancei
'

Theilateofbeingadvanced; preferment.
The Percles of the North

2.

to grace ; to give luftrc to.

the calling dignifies
his

man^ io the man

the

As

calling*

ment, chough it warms the body, has a return
with an advantage, being mu(b more warmed by

Thefc three laft were flower than the ordinary
Indian wheat of itfelf; and ihis culture did rather
retard titan tdiMiict,
Bacep.

To propofe

;

Sbokcjpeare'i King Lear,

Improvement ; promotion to a higher

4.

ftate of excellence.

to offer to the pi^blick ; to

'PhL-don 1 hight, quoth hi:, an4 do adwinet
ancefby from famous Coradin. Fairy Sjitn.
\ dare not advanu my opinion ag.-^inll the judg-

Settlement on a wife.

5.

third part of the principality oi Wales,

Ath-anc*d in open fight.

Fane}.

To make improvemen't.
They who would advance in knowledge, and
not deceive and fwcll thcmfelves with a little articulated air, ihould not take words for real entities
in nature, till they can frame clear and diliin£l
ideas of tbofe entities.
Locke.

to happinefs than we.

A tendency to come forward to meet a
lover ; an aft oi invitation.

their bad purpofcs.

Sftnjer^i State bfjrtland.

f.'cute him in the abfcnce of his friends.

to the Dif-

With Defdfmona alone.
4. Favourable circumftances.

from one

vantage in the dcepefl fcarlet ; and the datkefl
complexion is not a little alleviated by a black
hood.
Addtjon,

.gradual advances, m;in:fefted h.s divine pov,er, lu'
at lallexe :ed the hi^h.ll and molt gbriuus degree

Wh.1t oft was thought, but he'er fo well exprefs'd.

feftion.

The principle and oi>je£l of the greared importance in the world 10 the good of mankind, and. for
tne adv.inif and pcrfi£ling of human nature. Ha!e.
..Al>.YA'ii,CElvtE:NT. n.f.

[a-vancemmt , Ft.]

J. The aft of coming forward.
"Xikit

lefiocinFnt

luiti'-cs

diuljf

advaBtmunis,

them of.
that gives

be impr.ived into a very advantageous opportunity
of begetting or increafing fpiritual Mfe. Hamnattdt
Here perhaps
Some advantageous ai5l msy be achicvM
By fuddcn onlet, ciiKe,- with hell-tire

A man born with fuch advantage of conf^itu-

.

GlanviiU.
profit.

To wafte his wh^'le creation; or polTefs

Sot tnuu i^M\, what advantage will it be unto

All as our own.

thee, and whatifrofit ih^ll I hayc, ifl be cicanfcd

;

.from my fin ?
•Ceriain it is, that advantage now
room oi conicience, end (leers all.

^ci.
fits

2.

in the

It is uied

Milton.

with relation to perfons, and

followed by to.
Since every painter paints himfeirin his own
works, His advantageous to him to know himfelf,
to the end that he may cultivate thofe talents
which make his genius.
Dryden*

South's Strmom^

7,

Ground

and opportuni-

ADVANTA''cEOUS.aii)'. [ezvoHtageux, Fr.]
1. Of advantage; profitable; ul'eful; opportune ; convenient.
The time of Ccknefi, or afHiiflion, is, like the
co:j1 of the day to Adam, a feafon of peculiar propriety for the voice of God to be he rd ; and may

tion, that it adulterates not the images of h'snalnd.

Gain ;

fuperiority,

n.f.

This excellent man, who ftood i)ot upon the
adv.^niage-ground before, from the time of his
promotion to the archbifhoprick, provoked or underwent the envy, and reproach, and malice, of
men of all qualities and conditions^ who agreed
in nothing eifc.
Clarendon.

Superior excellence.

.6.

com-

Glanville.

Adva'ntage-sround.

True wit is nature to ad-uantage drcfs*d,

Locke.

To advan-

In the muft advantaged tempers, this difpofition
but comparative ; whereas the moil of men labour under difadvantagcs, which nothing can rid

fVulUr,

dow's fpn, and Laiarus) the firil of thefe, when <hc
l^d juil exp.re>) j the fccond, as he was carriea V)
tl)c grave an his bier; and lie third, after lie li.id
Veen fome time buried. And having, by thefe

5.

[from

is

Sbakefpeare,

A f.;cc, which is ovcr-fluihed, appears to ad-

1

adj.

Poflefled of advantages ;

modioufly fituated or difpofed.

Like jewels to ad-vantage fet,

of it; and laifcd hnnfeifalfo by bis own all-quick-'
.cning viitue, and accord'.jjg tj his own exprefs reittQ.mn.
.Auerhnry.
M49 of Ihidy and thought, that reafnn ri^hr,
and arelovers of truth, doniake n9 great <:</ir<in,rs

[from advan-

ties of ^Innoyance or refillance.

Our Saviour railed the ruler's daughter, the wi-

Improvement ; progrefc towards per

tage.]

Swift,

Her beauty by the ihadc does get.

in tlipir d.fcoveries of it.

Adva'ntaced.

Opportunity; convenience.
Give me adi.\.>2tage of fome brief difcourfe

3.

adj.

Piofitable ; convenient ; gainfuL

As It is advantageahle to a phyfician to be called to the cure of declining difeafe, fo it is for a
commander to fupprefs a fedition which has paired the height.
Sir y. Hayiiard,

Sautb^i Sermnni,

point to another.

.4.

tage.]

or

As foon as he was got to 'Sicily, they fent for
him back j dcfigning to take advantage, and pro-

Hwift.
rife

ilratagcra,

hismanlinefs was fpread everywhere. 2 Af^atv. viii.7.
Great malice, backed with a great intercfl j
yet can h.jve no ada<antage oi a man, but from his
own cjtpcdlations of-fomething that rs without him,

That prince applied h.mfell ftrft to the Church

progreflion ;

Clanville''s Scepjii Scientifca.

Adva'ntageable.

But fpecialiy he took advantage of the night for
fuch pr!vy att-mpts, infomuch that the bruit of

•f England, and upon their let'ufal to fail in with
fenters.

promote ; to bring forward ; ta
gain ground to.
The lloics that opinioned the fouls of wife men
dwelt about the mocn, and thofe of fools wandered about the earth, advantaged the concert of this
effe^.
Broivns Vulgar Errjurs.
To ennoble it with the fpirit that infpires the
Royal Society, were to advantage it in one of the
beft capacities in which it is improveablc.

"The common law hath left them this benefit,
whereof they make advantaget and wrert it to

In vain are all the pradis'd wiles.

In vain thofe eyes would love impart;
Not all th' advances, aU the fmiles.
Can move one unrelenting heart.
'ffa!Jh,
His genius was below
The &ill of cv'ry common beau
Who, though he cannot ff^H, is wife
i£nough to read a lady*s eyes j
>nd will each accidental glance
Jaterpret for a kind advance.
S-zvift
He has defcribed the unworthy paRion of the
.goddefs Calypfo, and the indecent advances (ne
made to detain him from his own country. Po/-e.

made the like advanus

by

Swift.

To

2.

Atterbury*

Superiority gained
unlawful means.

2.

common enemy, and

advantaging ourfelves.

whofe experience is, and ought to be, lefs of this
Sprat,
world than the other.
All other forts and fefls of men would evidently
have ths ad-vantage of us, and a much furer title

Clarendon.
So, like the fua*s advance j your titles fhow
Which, as he rifcs, does the warmer grow. IValler.

Hhakefpeare*

effectual, for dlltreffing the

In the pra^ical prudence of managing fiich gifts,
the laity may have fome ad'vantage over the clei^y j

manner of the enemy's advance towards it.

fhall

Locke,

fore a perfon.

All the foot were put into Abington, with a refolution to quit, or defend, the town, according

it

Wc Ihould have purfued fome other way, more

Superiority ; often with of or over be-

1.

:

Milton*
The great bulincfs of the fenfes being to make
us take notice of what hurts or advantages the
body, it is wifely ordered by nature, that pain
Ihould accompany the reception of feveral ideas.

ADVA'NTAGE, «./ [advantage, Fr.]

Adva'»ce. »./ [from To advance.]
I. The aft of coming forward.

3. Gradual

He

Soon after the death of a great officer, who was
judged no advancer of the king's matters, the king
faid to his folicitor, Tell me truly, what fay you
Bacon.
of your coufin that is gone ?
'The reporters arc greater advancers of defamatory deligns, than the very firft contrivers.
Government of the Tongue.

No fears of maglcic art controul,

my lady

Rather more honour left, and more cfteem ;
Me nought advantag'd, miffing what I aim*d.

Bacon.

forwarder.

At this the youth, whofe vent'rous foul

to

than ever the bearing of letter

The trial hath endamag'd thee no way.

that advances any thing ; a promoter ;

To Adva'wce. 1;. n.
1. To come forward.

rtsore

did.

Adva'ncer. ft./, [from advance.]

But catch the fp eading notion of the town. Ppfe.

his meafures,

Convey what I fet down
advantage

is

The jointure or advancement of the lady, was the

(cave the decifion to the publick.
Drydrn.
Some ne^er advame a judgment of their own.

a.

This fenfe

now difufed.

ment of fo great an author ; but 1 tlilnk it fair to

To benefit.

1.

Brctun i Vulgar Erroun.

ing.

My

to the

To Adva'nt ACE. f. «j. [from the noun.]

Nor can wc conceive it unwelcome unto thofe
worthies, who endeavour the advancement of learn-

bring to view or notice.

%.

confideration of this
with patience againft ordinary caamities ; efpecially if we confider his example
with this advantage, that though his fufterings
were wholly undefervcd, and not for himfcif but
for us, yet he bore them patiently.
Tillotjon.
fiattern arm us

In bis own grace he doth exalt himlelf
More than in your advancemcnf.

5. 'Xo forward ; to accelerate.

15.

parifon.
Much more (hould the

Sbakejfetre.

The aft of advancing another.

3.

South' i StrmQniM

It.

lihakeffear*»

Yo« fa!d, you neither lend nor borrow
Upon advantage.
Shakeff. Merchant of Venice.
8. Preporideration on one fide of the com-

Finding his ufurpation moil unjuil,
Endeavour'd my advaxcemtnt to the throne.

gar-

a

There is a foul counti thee her creditor,
Aui with advantage means to pay thy love.

and, 1 hope, In time, will raife sur language to
the utmoft perfc^ion.
Stvifr.

pcrfc£lion, than thcfc f reccpts of Chriftianicy f

4.

A D V

Overplas ; fomething more than the
mere lawful gain.

AoVAMTA'ciOUSLlf. <J</i/. ^from ad-van-

Wo owe thee much } within this waU of fleib
I

tageoiis.\

A^ V

A D V
tagtcus.]

Coftveniently ; opportunely ;

quadra?e(imal, pafchal.
or ptntecofta!, for their proper
fe.ifonr.

profitably.
it was ad-vaxtagnufiy fituMeJ,
th«ie boirtg an
faly pifiage from it to India,
by ll-a.
Arhutbnil.

Advanta'ceousn'ess. n. /. [from
-vantageous.]

the jd'VanuzMufnrf,
to us, both in th. prefent and
the future

of hM

B'yl''' Seraphic Lo-vc.

AV,rr-.»r^
To ADVE'NE.

[ad-^emc. Lat.] To
accede to fortefhing ; to become part
-v. «.

Blows flew at all adventurci, v.-ounds
and deaths
g^ven and taken unexpcaed;
many fcarce knowing their enemies from their
friends.
Hay-ward.
Where the mind does not perceive
pmbable
conneilion, there men's opinions
are the ctfefts
of chance and hazard, of a mind
floating at all
td-Lc«iura, without choice and
without direaion.

m

been midakea.

For I moa love, and am refolv'd to

adv€«ius Rfdrmprorh.]

that is,

The name of one

of the holy feafons,

4-

.

'

in ufe.

thus far true,
that, ,f the proportion
of the aj^venrine heat be
greatly predominant to the
natural heat and fpirits
Of the body. It tendcth to
diffolution or notable al-

teration,

„

JjiSCCK.

r

"''J- {'"^^""ii'"'. Lat.]

^?'''"J!""'i hat which advenes

;

accidental ;

cxtrip/ically

added,

fu-

not

its

derivatives,

To try the chance; to dare.

1.

Though we may call the obvious
tural,

and the others attvtmitim,
;
changes of colours, from
whatfoevep
proceed, may be properly taken
li his

coloursTa"-*

yet fucli
caufe thev

in.

blood boil, and th' aA-umkkus
fire

Bovli

*ais d by high meats, and higher
win*», require
10 temper and ailay the burning heat
Waters are brought, which by
dccoaion get
Newcoolncft.

Drd

M up by lapidaries,

th.-re

are not above three

The thing or perfon

without

:

that

Moft mighty princefs, that I have

Adve'ntual.

ajj.

his life for,

it

is

and delivered you out of the

^

hand of

,

otten nfed with the reciprocal
as, he ad-ventured him/elf.

pronoun ;

Adventurer. „. /

[ad-.entur,er, Yr.^
tic that feeks occafions
of hazard ; he
that puts himfelf in the
hands of chance.

He IS a great advctiiurtr, faid he.

That hath bis fword through hard alTay

i

do atfo daily «ft o«

[from ad-vtr^.]
advent
other collc« j

ar,

Re

foregone.

S-rJ.Da-vU,.
He intended to ha«,d his own aSion,

that fo

«i" 'd^tmurers, who elfe
wl"?r
J Icf.
H ".''K*-'
were like to be
forward.

RaUM-.

Had It not been ft>r the Bfiti/h,
which the ittc
war. drew over, and udn^,„,ur.r,
or loldiers feated

been left delhtutc.

\ ^",

Adve'rbially. adv. [adverhialiter, Lat.]
Like an adverb ; in the miitner of an
adverb.
think alta was joined advtrhially with

make

ufe of fo

equivocal

«

Jddlfon.

trary to ; oppofite to.

Dia.

ADVERSARIA. „./.

A book, as

[Lat.

fliould

t'lre.]

I he

*

be.

writing.

[from adThe quality of being adj)-^
n.f.

Advzstvuovs. adj. [nd-ventureux, Fr.
I. He that IS
inclined to adventures

and,
courageous.
;

confequently, bold, daring,

Creditor

Adversary. »./

[ad-ver/ai re, Fr.

An

'ver/arius,

Lat.]

tagonift ;

enemy

:

opponent ;

adan-

generally applied to

thofe that have verbal or judicial
quarrels ; as,
controvertifts or litigants
^

fometimes to an opponent in fmgle combat.

may fometimes imply an open

It

as we fay, a fecret
enemy is worfe than an open ad-vtr/ary.

Yet am I noble, as the ad-verfaj

I come to cope.

Shakcjf care's Kwg Lear.
and ceinnonies of the church,
which were the felf-fame now thit
ther
were when holy and virtuous
men maintained
them agajnft profnne and deriding
adterfarUs, her
own children have in dcrifion.
H^j,^^
Mean while th' ad-tjerfary of God and
man,
Satan, with thoughts inflam'd,
of highcft defign.

ihole

At land »nd fca, in many a doubtful
fight.
Was never known a mo,,: ad-vint'

knight
Who oftner drew hi, fw«d, and always
for

rites

therefore,

An ad'jcrfary malfes a ftnfler fcarch

into

us.
and d.fcnvers every flaw and
imperfedtion. in out

A friend exaggerates a man's virtues

an enemy inflames his crimes.

adj. [from adienfame with ad-venturous: a

low word, fcarcely ufed in

It

tempers.

A D V e'r s A t v E
I

.

ths

;

Add\fon.
adj. [adver/ati-vus,
Lat.l

A tem of grammar, applied to a word

whic^i makes fome oppofition
as,

or variety •

m this fcntencc; This diamond i,

or.ent, but it is rough.
But is an adver.
Jaiive conjunction.
A'd V E R s E . adj. [ ad-verfus, Lat.
]

^..^^Pa"*^.," ^^^ ""'^
the

firft

fyllable;

cented on

tlie

in

'*»«

verfe

accent

on

it

ac-

is

by Shake/peare ; on
by M,7/.„ ; on .the
on the firft, by Rof.

firll

either, indifTerently,

rou,

n^e

Lat.]

profeffion of enmity ;

The king! of England did not make
thfc™.
queft of Ireland
; it was begun by particular adv<ntur,ri, and other voWntanes,
who came to feck
their fortunes,

vcnturefome.

fating to the feafon of

[ad-verbialis,

Thefe parchments are fuppofed to have
been St.
VM\%ad-,,,rf,rh.
Buir, Sertfons.

'
K
Adventure,
-v. a.
To put into the

-venture/ome.]

and for the
„

adj.

power of chance.
For my father fought for you,
and advtr.turj

Tff

Latin.]

mavtntnra aifo,

Adve'rbial.

feem, in which Debtor and
were fet in oppofition.] A
common-place ; a book to note in. '

comes from

*" "" '''

he lives -virtuoujly.

and tenderUcutir. xiviii. i6.

Adve nturesomeness.

'"^"y' ''•"'thrt there
malt'.'lt
""i'"' wough
may
be elb.«-toom
for them,

;

flies aJo/t ;

Adve'rsable. a<^'. [from ad-ver/e.] Con-

Sbak,fp,ari.

ilK tender and delicate woman
amorg you,'
which would not advtr^iure to ftt
the fole of her
foot upon the ground, for
delicatenefs
cr

Clarke's Latin Grammar.
Thus we fay, he runs/wi/ily the bird

trcmu, did Virgil

ad-vntur'd

To try your taki ng ftf a falfe report.

or

a word not now in ufe

ftraining the latitude of their fignification, by the intimation of fome
circui^iftance thereof; as, of quality, manner,

'^l'"^^'^-

0»r merchant, ihall ng more ad-ve»t'rcr,

'"''
"»«''« from the dlffcre^; admixture
a'^''
^'/'^J*'
fcrem
of other *fo«,/i,;», mineral

joined to a verb or adjeftive, and folely
applied to the ufe-of qualifying and re-

I fliould

Fr.]

Adventuresome,
lTLc\ "' °?r',' :»«•','-"*•«», as Z

Adve kt.ve. ;,./ [ftomad-venio.

is

Be not angry,

euentially inherent.
Difcafes of continuant
get .in ad-vt^whu,
ftreng.h from cuftom, bef.dej
their material caufe
irom thf humours.
d

Skaiifpcarr'sHenryV.

A'pVERB. n.f. [adverbium, Lat.] A word

of an adverb.
DrydiK.

,

To Adve'nture. -v. n. [ad-venturer.

Mldian.

As tor the peregrine heat, it is

pervenient;

.

noun, with all

adj.

[from aducnio. ad•ventum.]
Adventitious ; that which is
extnnfically added ; that which
comes
from outward caufes j a word fcarcely

A

rpi.
I his

frequently written without «a'j as,
-ven-

Common Prayer.

""^V

any thing adwviuro;iJty.

That which has the quality or ftrufture

try

ture, -venturous.

fignifying the comtngi that is, the coming of our
Saviour ;
which is made the fubjeft of our
devotion during the four weeks
before Chrift-

Adventine.

if he durft fteal

an en-

;

My fate, or, failing in th' advexiure, die.

ha'h

;

Th« occafjon of cafual events

terpnfe in which fomething
muft be left
to hazard.

GU„^UU, Vamiy of D^gmaiifm.

Advent, n. /. [from adventuj

turous.]
After an
ner; boldly; daringly.
They are both hanged; and fo would this be,

degree.
1.

Being thus divided from truth in
ttemCelves,
they are yet farther removed
by d-vmni deception ; for they are dally mocked
Into errour by
fubt,er dcvifers.
Brnun', Vulgar Errourl.
If to fuppofe tlie foul a diftinft
fubft.mce from
the body, and extrlnHcally
ad-vcnUni, be a gren
error
philofuphj, almoft all the w.irlj

[from advenadventurous man-

-

_

^yliff,-! P^rtrg^.

vening; coming from outward caufes
;

Adventurously, adv.

upon

chance ; without any rntiocal
fcheme.

Adve KiENT. (uij. [ad-ueniens, Lat.] AdlaperaddeJ.

My humble veife demands a fofter theme
A pamtcd meadow, or a purling ftream. Jddifo,,.

Hciiu ^
2. In this fenfe is ufcd the
phrafe, a/^//
ad-ventures; [a I' adventure,
Fr.]
By

itfelf al-

.

But I've already troubled you too long.

Nor dare attempt a more advent'rms fong.

j

one def-

;

tJieir ad'Vevtarc.

ftilcd an
accident.) caufe ; and the accidental
o( any aO,
be whatever ailvtms to the aa

ready lubUantiatad.

dangerous.

•

perate of fuc«ar, and not
Jefirous to difputc the
defence, prefentiy yielded
but two ftood
;

is

i» faid to

a

The general fummoned three cables

to be fuperadded.

A caofe confiaercd in judicatnre,

;

tion.

cffomethingeUe, without being effential ;

a chance ;

hazard
an event of which we have
no direc-

.

is

»•

An accident

I

Quality of being advan-

objeft of our love,

Applted to things, that which is full
of hazard; which requires courage;

2.

ADVE'NTURE. „./ [Prench^^'"'"'""-^"'"

ad-

tageous ;
profirable^efs ;
ufefulnefs
convenience.
The laft property, which qualifies Cod for the
fitteft

A D V

ly, the coljefts ad-ventnal,

lait,

by DrjJen ;

common.

P2

!•

A£iiag

ADV
AfUng with

1.

I for this

nigh wreckt upon the fea.

And twice, by adtttrft winds, from England's bank
Drove back again unto my native dime } Sbaktfp.

-

tention><o ; regard to ; confideration.
ChriRianity may make Archimedes his chailenge ; give it but where it may fet its foot-;
allow but a fober advertence to its propofals, and it
Decay ofPieiy.

As when two polar winds, blowing advrrfcy
Upon the Cronian fea together drive
Mountains of ice.

will move the whole world.

Adve'rtency. w./. [from.ad'vert.'l The

Afilttn.

fame with advertence.

With cjvirje blaft upturns them from the fouth,
Milton.
Notus and Afer.
A cloud of fmoke envelopes either hoft,

clfe

Notice of any thing publilhed in a paper of intelligence.
Adverti'ser. n./. [czdverli/eur, Fr.]
He that gives intelligence or information.
1
2. The paper in which advertifements arc
3.

Attention ; re-

gard ; heedfulnels.
Too much advertency is not your

And all at once the combatants are loll

publilhed.

Adve'rtisinc, or Ad vert I's inc. /ar/.
talent ; or

Adve'rt£NT. adj. [from ad-vert.']

monitory

intelligence ;

now in ufe.

At-

As I was then

tentive ; vigilant ; heedful.

Mvertifing, and holy to your bufinefs.
Not changing heart with habit, 1 am lliU
Attornied at your fcrvice. Sbakefp. Meaf.for Meaf.

This requires choice parts, great attention of
mind, fcqueftration from the importunity of fecular employments, and a long advertent and deli-

or

defxre ; thence, calamitous ; affliflive ;
pernicious. It is oppofed to pro/feroui.

Aftive in giving
a word not
:

adj. [from ad-verti/e."]

you had Hed irom that text, as from a rock.
Sivi/t,

Darkling they join <irfi;«r/c, and Ihock unfcen ;
Xlourfers with couriers julUing, men with men.
Drydtn.

Z. Figuratively, contrary to the wi(h

a min, woman, ot child ; time of divine fervic*;
Holder,
the hour of the day; day of the month.

Adve'rtbnce. »./. [from <ufc«-/.] At-

contrary direftions ; as,

two bodies in colliflon.

Wu

A D V

A f)V

To Adve'sperate. 'v.n. [^ad-ve/pero, Lat.]
Di3.
To draw towards evening.
To ADVERTrSE. v. a. [ad-vertir. Fr. Advi'ce. n. /. [avis, ad-vis, Fr. from adIt is now fpoken with the accent upon
"vifo, low Lat.]
except that inthe laft fyllable ; but appears to have 1. Counfel; inlirnftion
been anciently accented on -the feftrudion implies fuperiority, and adt>ice
cond.]
may be given by equals or inferiors.
Break we our Watch up, and, by my advice^
1. To inform another; to give intelliLet us impart what we liavc fcen to-night
witli an accufative of the pergence
berate connexing of confequents.
Hale^s Origin of Mankind.

What if he hath decreed, that I ihall iirll
Be try'd in humble ftate, and things adnierfr ;
By tribulations, injuries, infults,
Contempts, and fcorns, and fnares, and violence.

:

Some the prevailing malice of the great,
Unhappy a>en, or adverfe fate,

Sunk deep into the gulfs of an afflided ftate.
Rcfcommtn.

5. Perfonally opponent ; the perfon that
countera^ls another, or contefts any
thing.
Well Ihe faw her father was grown her adverfe
yarty ; and yet her fortune fucb, as flie muft favour her rivals.
Sidmy,

;

Wherein he might the king Ills lord adveriije.
Whether our daughter were legitimate.

As I by iriends am well flJvertj/ii/,
Sir Edmund Courtney, and the haughty prelate,
With many more confederates, are in arms. Sbak.

:

jaUtte ad-uerfeiy, I make a crooked face at it.

fliftion ; calamity ; that
«o our wifhes.

The caufe
misfortune.

a.
'

Fr.]

M-

J^igh-

particle •wili.
Great princes, takii;g -advice tvitb workmen,
with no Icfs cofl, fet their things together.

To inform

give notice ; with
before the fubjeft of information.

2.

oppofition

is,

of our forrow ; affllflron ;
In this fenfe it may have

/i</ai<Tri/i</

mifery.

fence.

3.

Concerning deliverdnce itfclf fioiR all advcrfiryy

but when fome notable alfliiSion cr
fame great calamity or trouble, befalletit

this world,

them.
Htukin,
Sweet are the ufes of adverfiiy^
Which, like the tosd, ugly and venomous,
'Wears yet a pxf cious jewel in his head.

1.

i^bfikc^ptare,

K)f vail bodice, will alTord matter of admiration.

Ray en the Creation,
;

The earth regard as of that whole a part
In which wide frame more noble worlds abound ;

We fomctimes fay,' Ta advert ihi mind
to an -^jeS.

with his heart every day ; and this, no doubt, is
the bed and lurcft courfe; for ftill ihe oftner, the
Soutb^i Sermonu
better.
It is not advifahle to reward, whe.c men have
tendcmefs
to
punifh.
Fablet,
not
L'EJirange's
the
.

To be fo moral, when he fhall endure

To ADVrSE.

:

therefore give me no counfel

The quality of being advifable, or lit
fitnefs ;

I..

death ; but hearing him report the adveitifeinent
of Solon, he fparcd his liCe.

'^
'

V'arendan.'

The drum and trumpet, by their feveral founds,'
fcrve for many kinds ot advertifements, in military
affairs! the bells ferve to proclaim afcarc-flre; andj
IB

iume places, water-bteacheS} the <itpartuie of

-v.
:

a. [aJ-vl/er, Fr.]

with the particle to before

would advife all gentlemen to learn merchants
account!, and not to think it a fkill that belongs not
Locke,
to them.
1

If they return no news, doth nothing know
But if they make advertifemer.t of lies,
The prince's counfel all awry do go.
Sir y-ybn Daviei.

which was fent for his relief, had received fome
bru)h, which would much retard their march.

To counfel

Sbakefp. f^ing Lear,

Aiiit'i 'Dcfcripticn ef tbe IVerld.

Intelligence ; information.
Then, as a cunning prince that ufeth fpics,

He had received advertifttnent, that the party,

propriety.

the tiling advifed.
If you do ftir abroad, go-Brm'd.
Arm'd, brother!
Brother, 1 advife you to the bed.

St/ikcfprare^s Much ado about Nothirg.

Cyras was once minded to have put Crcefus to

2.

•

Anvi'sABLENEss. »./. [^ttom advi/able.l

—

Wicnefa, ye glorious orbs, which hang around.
Bitckmore,

'
to be advifed.
Some judge it advifahle for a man to account

fit

Inftruftion ; admonition.
'Tis all men's office to fpeak pati.nce
To thofc, that wring under the load of forrow;
But no man's virtue nor fufficiency.

My grie'fs are louder than advertifemcnt.

Vo ADVE'RT. -v. n. [aJ-verto, Lat.] To

and examination of ftich an innumerable number

to bring intelligence.

Advi'sable. adj. [from ad-vife. ] Prudent

To give notice of any thing, by means

The like himfcif

©f profpcrity, contributed to fupport his mind ur,-'
der the heavy weight oi Adverjity, which then lay
upon him.
Attt.rhury,

to advert to more than one thing, a particular view

the chief hero of the
of his fubjedls, occafioned by his abDrydcn.

Adverti'sement, or Adve'rtiseMENT. n.f. [adverliffement, Fr.]

A remembrance of the good ufe he had made

attend to ; to regard ; to obfcrve ; with
the particle ie before the objedt of regard.
The mind of man ijeing not capable at once

what low, and chiefly commercial.
n.f. A veflel employed

Advi'ce-boat.

as. He advertifed bis loft.

of their welfare in;

Now 'to the univerfal whole advert

Solyman, filming thofe Jetters with all

of an ttdwertifement in the public prints ;

we ufe not to fay men are in ad-verjit^y v.'henf*iever

-crofs,

Baccn*s FJ/iiyr.

4. Intelligence: as, the merchants received
This fenfe is ibmead-vice of their lofs.

They were to advertife
difti-efTes

Sbakefpeare^ s Hertry VI.

.they feel any fmall hindcrance

q/"

Knol/ei's Hi/iory of tie Turk!.

Let me embrace thefe foMradverJrties,

;

to

their hands and feals.

for wife men fay, it is the wifefl courfe.

The ftate «fur^ap{)inefs

;

Ferhatcs, underftanding that Solyman expefled
more aflurcJ advertifement, onti> the other BafTas
declared the death of the emperor; o/" which they

a plural.

3.

What he hath won, that he hath fortified :
So hot a fpeed, with fuch advice difpos'd.
Such temperate order, in fo fierce a courfe.
Doth want example.
Sbakefp. Kiirg yattt.
3. Confultation ; deliberation : with the

diflikf.

Sbakeffieare.

Prior,
Not fav'd by virtue, yet by vice undone.
Refleftion i prudent confideration : as,
he always afts with good adi'ice.

to perceive the intention of the French
Bacon.
king.
I hope ye will advertife me fairly of what they
tifed, as not

Whit I thirfk, 1 utter, and fpcnd my malice in
Jf the drink you give me touch my

my breath.

\_ad'vtrfiti ,

2.

The king was not fo fliallow, nor fo ill advcr-

'

tonately.

n./.

To worfe extremes with fwifter fteps would run ;

Shakefpeare.

^

Sbaktfp. Hamlet,

troubled, weak, and coward, as thou art!
Without thy poor advice, the lab'ring heart

The bifliop did require a rcfpite.

'A'dversely. atl-v, [from ad'verfe7\ In'
an adverfe manner ; oppofitely ; unfor-

Adve'rsity.

Unto young Hamlet.

fon informed.

When I confider the fcruplcs and cautions I here
lay in your way,

methinks it looks as if 1 advifed
you to fomcthing which I would have oilered at,
but in effefl nut done.

2.

To give information 4

Locke.

to inform ;

make acquainted with an^y thing

:

to

often

with the particle o/'before the thing told.
were advis'd, his flelh was capable
;
and that his forward fpirit
Would liftjiim, whccemoft trade of danger rang'd.
'i'^ou

Of wiunds and fcirs

Sbakefpeare.
.Sttch

AD U

A D U

A D V

tigable addrefs, to filence the impertinent advifer,

Happinefs in his pow'r, left free to will.

whofe feverity awes their exceffes.

tio,

To Advi'se. v. n.

Swift's Mifcellan'iet.

Staic^earc's Henry V.

txjhh his companions.

They who flattered him moft before, men'ioned
him now with the greateft bitternefs, without im-

To confider 4 to deliberate.

2.

I

And by thy ceremony give thee cure.
Think'il thou the fiery fever will go out
With titles blown from adulation ?

with the particle luith before the perfon coaiulted ; as, be adiiijed
:

Advife if this be worth
Attempting, or to fit in darknefs here,
Hatching vain empires.

Govirnment of the Tmgue.
They will have all their gold and filver, and
may keep their adulterate copper at home.

Lat.] FLittery ; high co.aipliment.

O be ficic, great Greatnefs

Corrupted with fome foreign mixture.
It does indeed differ no more, than the makef
of adulterate wares does from the vender of them.

AduLa'tiON. n./. [adulation, Fr. adula-

0/"this fair troop advit'd their aged prince.
Dryden^s ^ne'id.

To confult

Shakefpeam
I.

Rijgers^s Sermons.

ParaJi/e Loft.

A pofting mcflenger difpatch'd from hence,

1 .

—That inceftuous, that adulterate beaft.

They never fail of their moll artful and indefa-

Such difcourfe bring on«

As may advife him o/"his happy (lace;

Adu'lter ate NEss.n./[fromWa//^rart.]
The quality or ftate of being adulterate,
or counterfeit.

pudng the leaft crime to him, committed fmce the

Adulter a't ion. n.f. [from adulterate. ]

time of that exalted adulation, or that was not ihen

1.

as much knowa to them, as it could be now.

The ait of adulterating or corrupting
by foreign mixture ; contamination.
To make the compound pals for the rich metal

Miltni's Parad'ife Ltfi, b. ii.

Clarendon,

Av>vist.T>. participial adj. [from ad'vift.'\
1 . A Aing with deliberation and defign ;

Adula'tor. ?;./ [adulator, Lat.] A flat-

fimple,

Dm.

if it be

prudent

;

wife.

terer.

A'dulatory.

Let his travel appearrather in bis difcourfe, than

adj.

[adulatorius,

Th* Almighty Father, where he fits
Shrin'd in his fanftuary of heav'n fecure,
Confulting on the fum of things forefeen.
This tumult, and permitted a>l, ad-vh^d,
Faradijl LoJI, b. vi.

not only to the confeflbr, brjt even to the catechill,
in their adult age, than they were in their minority ;
as having fcarce ever thought of the principles of
their religion, fmce they conned them to avoid

in his apparel or gefture ; and, -in his difcourfe,
let him be rather adnjijed in his anfwers, than for-

Bacon t Efjays.

-ward to tell ftories.

By that which we work naturally, as, when we
breathe, fleep, and move, we fet forth the glory
of God, as natural agents do ; albeit we have no
-cxprefs purpofe to make that our end, nor any ad-

vijid determinatioa therein to follow a law.
Hunker, b. i. p. 49.

The earth, by thefe applauded fchools, 'tis faiJ,
This fingle crop of men and women bred ;

Who g own adult, fo chance, it feems, enjoin'd.
Blackmare.

The deprefiion of the cranium, without a fracand then

.^Dtj'LTNESS. n.f. [from adult.'\ The
ftate of being adult.
See Adoles-

ture, can but feldom occur ;

'J'his h(Xi\c,tidvifcdly read and diligently followed

Lat.] To commit adultery with
a word not claffical.
another
tero,

the pirty is in hade, and cannot ftay to confii*;r

liberation ; cool and prudent procedure.
While things are in agitation, private men may
modeftly tender their thoughts to the confideration
of thofe that are in authority; to whofe care it
belnngeth, in prefcribing concerning indilf^rent
things, to proceed witli all juft advijedncji and moSauttderjon^i 'Judgment in one t^inv.
deration.

He iiifa/rff-i ftill

:

His challewife
his thoughts lie with. a whorr.
Ben yonjon.

Adu'lter ANT. ». y; [adulteraiii, Lat.]
The perfon or thing which adulterates.
7» Adu'lterate. 'V. a. [adulterer, Fr.
adultero, Lat.]

To commit adultery.

1.

To corrupt by fome foreign admixture;

2.

to contaminate.

Counfel ; information.
Mote I wote,
What ftrange adventure do ye now purfue ?

Boyle.

dearer thaii p<-.t-alhei.

taken likewife, in old writers, for
prudence and circumfpedlioa. It is now,
in both fenfes, antiquated.
Advi'ser. n.y". [(roai ad'vi/e,'] The perfon that advifes, or gives counfel j a
^ounfellor.

Mac, free from court-compli»nc«, he walks,

Cuulil a man be compofcd to fuch an advantage
of conilitutii'H, that it Ihould not at all adulterate

the images of his mind ; yet this fecond nature
would altcrthe crafis of liis undeiftinding.
Glanville's Scepjh Scienrifi.a, c» xvi.

The prefent war has fo adulterated our tongue
with llrangc words, that it would be impoflible for
one of our great-grandfathers to know what his
Spcilaior.
pofterity have been doing.
.

Adu'lter ate. adj. [from To adulterat^e.']
I.

Tainted with the guilt of adultery.
I. am pofTcls'd with an adulterate h\ot\

My blood is mingled with the grime of luft;
Being ftruropetcd by thy contagion.

Aad with hUniclf, his beft advifer, ttlki.
fTaJler.

I

terinits,

terefs :

.

A

child born of an adulLat.]
a term of canon law.

Adu'lterous.«^'. [adulter, La.t.'\ Guilty
of adultery.
Th' adulterous Antony, moft large
In his abominations, turns you off,
And gives his potent regiment to i trull.

That nofes it agaitill us.
Shakcjpeare's Antony and Cleopatra,

An adulterous

perlon

is

tied to reftitufion

of

the injury, fo far as it is reparable , and to make
provifion for the children, that they may not injure
Taylor.
the legitimate,
?

Dryden's JEneid.

Sbakejpearc,

who arc not f.> foolifhly kiiavilh as to
adulterate them with (alt-petrc, which is much

It is

Dryden's Virgil,

A D u'l T E R N E tt.f. [adulterine, Fr. adul-

Who promii'd, who p rocur'd the Spartan bride

Common pot-alhcs, bought of them tiiat fell it

a.

Government of the Tongue, § 3.
Helen's rich attite,
From Argos by the fam'd aduli'refs brought.
With golden flow'rs and winding foliage wrought.

Think on whofe faith th' aduli'rous youth rely'd ;

But fortimc, ohi

in Ihops,

Perhaps my fuccour, or advijement meet,
Fairj Siueen.
Mote {lead you much.
I will, according to your ad'vljtment, declare the
«Til5, which fcem mod hurtful.
Sffnfer't Stall of Ireland.

A

are no fuch things here.

yidullcralet hourly with thine uncle John.

Advi'sement. n./. [ad-v i/eme«e, Fr.]
I.

Drydcn's Juvenal.

Adu'lteress. n.f. [from adulterer.^
woman that commits adultery.

:

Thou (iileft fecond thoughts (by all allowed the

Advi'sedness. n./. [from ad'vi/ed.] De-

Dm.

To Adu'lt ER. v. a. [adulterer, Fr.adul-

edvijedlj of that which is moved.
Bacortf EJfay xxiii.

of mifchief

it

cence.

moving things, when

in what is natural, and adnjijedly undertalcen.
^';V Jnbn SuckTirg.

Of lands to her, the cuckold may fucceed.

The Spartan lady replied, when (he was artced.

So-

bcl^) a relapfe, and accufett conflancy

;

For tho' the law makes null th' adulterer's deed

What was the punifljment for adulterrjps f There

berly ; heedfully ; deliberately ; purpofely ; by defign ; prudently.

three years travel abroad.
Surprife may be made by

With what impatience mult the mufe behold
The wife by her procuring hulband fold

grown to fome degree of^

Stakiff. Mtrcbant of Venice.

do more good than
Ajcham.

perfon guilty of adultery.

ftrength ; fometimes full grown: a word
ufed chiefly by medicinal writers.

by vent'ring both,

-but one year at home, would

The

Adu'lTerer. n.f. [adulter, Lat.]

infancy, or

happens
to children, whofe bones are more pliable and foft
Sharp's Surgery.
than thofe of adults,

I oft found both.

nbbleft wines, where fomething of the colour, fpirit,
Feltcn on the Clajpcs.
and flavour, will remain.

A perfon above the age of

The felf-fame way, with more advijtd watch.

Advi'sedly. ad'v. \^ioai adv[fed.'\

TJie ftate of being adulterated, or contaminated.
Such tranflations are like the adulteration of the

Adu'lt. n.f.

1 (hot his fellow of the felf-fame flight.

;

Bacon's Natural Hifory, No 798.

2.

Did, male and female, propagate their kind.

In my fchool-days, when I had loft one Ihaft,

To find the other forth

De^ay of Piety.

correction.

2. Performed with deliberation J done on
purpole ; adled with defign.

may be a great faviiig of the richer metal.

Lat.]

Flattering; full of compliments.
ADU'LT. adj. [adu/tus, Lat.] Grown up;
paft the age of infancy and weaknefs.
They would appear Icfs able to approve themfelvcs,

is an adulteration, or counterfeiting : but
done avowedly, and without dif^ju-fing, it

Sbakcjpcartt Cmedy ofEp-ori,

ADU'LTERY. n. f. [adulterium,

Lat.]

The aft of violating the bed of a married perfon.
All thy domeflic griefs at home be left,
The wife's adult' ry, with the fcivant's theft;
And (the moft racking thought which can intrude)

Forget falfe friends, and their ingratitude.
Dryden's Juvenal^

Adu'mbrant.

adj.

[from adumbrate.'\

That which gives a flight refemblance.
To ADU'MBRATE. -v. a. [adumbro, Lat.]
To {hadow out to give a flight like;

to exhibit a faint refemblance,
like that which fliadows afford of the
bodies which they reprefent.
Heaven is defigned for our reward, as well as
nefs

;

refcue ; and therefore
pofitive excellencies,

mend.

Is

adumbrated by all thofe

which can endear or recomDecay of Piety.

Adumbra'ticn. n.f. [horn adumbrate.}
1 The
.

The aft of adumbrating, or giving a

I.

•jood, or not good, ingraft.

To make feme adumbratitn of that we mean,

office or aft of pleading ; plea ; apology.
advocation is not now in tune;
lord i» not my lord ; nor fliould I know him.

rather an impullion or contufion of the air,
thao an elifioa or fedion of the fame*

it it

My
My

Bae. Nat. Hip, N" iSr-

Were be in favour, as in humour, alter'd.

X. The flight and imperfea reprefentation
of a thing ; a faint fltetch.
The eblervcrt view but the backfide of the h ingings ; the right one is on the other fide the grave :
and our knowledge is but like thofe broken ends
at bed a moil confufeJ adumbration.

Shaktffeare's Othello.

Advola'tion. ». _/!

[advalo, ad-volattmt,

The aft of flying to fomething.

Lat.l

^

Dia.

Advolv'tion. n.f. [fl</W«/»e, Lat.] The

Clanville't Scefjii Scientifica.

aft of rolling to fomething.

Thofe of the firft fort have fome aJumbration

Advo'utrv. n. f. [avotttrie,

of the rational nature,

as

vegeublcs have of the

Advna'tion. »./. [from ad and «»«/,
Lat.] The ftate of being united union

He was the moft perfidi*u9 man upon the earth,

JE'glogv?.. n. f. [written inftead of
eclogue, from a mi(?aken etymology.]
pailoral ; a dialogue in verfe between

He that has the right of

water, are fuppofcd to be united into one lump,
the cold does not caufe any real union or attunalhti,
but only hardening the aqueous parts of the liquor

Advo'wson, or Advo'wzen, n.f.
common law.] A right to prefent to a
benefice, and fignifies as much as Jus

the pounces and beaks of the hawks, is the caufe
of the great and habitual immorality of thofe aniArittibmt and Pope's Mart. Scrih.
mals.

In the canon law, it is fo
Patronatus.
termed, becaufe they that originally obtained the right of prefenting to any
church, were great benefaftors thereto ;

and are therefore termed fometimes PnConvell.
troni, fometimes Advocati.
To Adu're. v. n. [aduro, Lat.] To burn

up

that are fpeakers, are pariots,

A'dvocacy. »./. [from advocate.] The
Z^ of pleading vindication ; defence

body

no antipodes, or that the ftars do fall, they
Ihall not want herein the applaufe or advocacy of
Brotuni l^ulgar Errourt, h. i.
Satan.
«./. [adiwcatus, hiit.]

A'DVOCATE.

Began to parch that temperate clime.

An advcca'i, in the general import of the word,

generally now applied, in a meor philofophical fenfe, to the
complexion and humours of the body.
Such humours arc «(/»/, as, by long heat, become
It is

2.

dicinal

who has the pleading and manage-

of a hot and fiery nature, as choler, and the like.

patron of the caufe, and is often,-in Latin, termed
togaliis, and, in £ngli{h, a perfon of the long
robe.
^yliffe's Parergon.
Learn whatthou ow'ft thy country and thy friend ;
What's ttquifite to fpare, and what to fpend :
Learn this ; and, after, envy not the (lore
0$ the greas'd tdvocaU that grinds the poor.
Drydcn's Ptrjiuu
rri

manner, as a controvertift or vindicator.
If Oie dares trull me with her litcic babo,
(hew 't the king, and undertake to be
Sbakefp. riatttlct.

Of the feveral forms of government that have
been, or are, in the world, that caufe fcems comm»iiy the better, that bas the better advocate, or
Is. advantaged by frelher experience*
Tcir/ile'i Mifcellanies.

3. It is ufed with the particle for before

the perfon or thing, in whofe favour the
plea is offered.

hilp,

Ae'rial.
1.

.

adj.

[ai'rius,

Paradife Lcji.

Thro' the aerial or the wat'ry {ky.

Pope.

T

Prior.
gathered the thicknefs of the air, or aerial in-

terval, of the glafles at that ring.

Nrwtsn's Opticktr

Sulphurous and nitrous foam
They found, they mingled, and with fubtle art
Concofted, and adtijicd, they reduc'd
To bhckell: grain, and into ftore convey'd.

Vegetables abound more with aerial particics
jirhutbnot on Aliments.
than animal fubftances.
2.

Paradife Lojl.

Hot, as the complexion.
They arc but the fruits of aduficd choler, and
Howell.

Produced by the air.
The gifts of heav'n my foU'wJng fong purfues^
Aerial honey, and anibrolial dews.
Dryden's firg, Georf.

3.

Adu'stible. adj.\(Tom aduJl.] That
which may be adufted, or burnt up. Di^.
Abu'stion. n.f. [from «(/»/?.] The aft

Inhabiting the air.
Where thofe immortal fliapcs

Of bright aerial fpirits live infpher'd.
In regions mild, of calm and fercnc air.
Paradife Regained,
Aerial anim^U maybe fubdivideJ into birds and

of burning up, or drying, as hy fire.

Lode.

flies,

This is ordinarily a confequcnce of a burning
the foftcr parts being melted
away, the heat continuing its adujiion, upon the
colliquative fever ;

drier and flefliy parts, changes into a marcid fever.

Ptfc's Bpijiks,
it

Hands for one of the oiBces of our Re-

Adz. n.f. SeeAoDicB.
AE, or M. A diphthong of very

Lat.]

Belonging to the air, as confining of it.
The thunder, when to roll
With terrour through the darkuirifl/hall,
From all that can with fins or feathers fly.

Adtj'sted. adj. [See Adust.]
1. Burnt; fcorched; dried with fire.

the evaporations of a vindicative fpirit.

helfc,

and j^lpuiold, an auxiliary go-vernour j
a lender of ajfjlance : with
which Boetius, Symmachus, Epicurus, Sec
bear a plain analogy. Gibfon's Camden.
jEni'gma. See Enigma.

The farse aduJI complexion has impell'd

2.

pronounced

ulf, tuelph, hulph,
and, at this day, help] implies afTiftance. SoAElfiuin is 'v'tSorious ;

lefts, is

,

4. Placed in the air.
Here I'ubterranean works^ and cities fee.
There towns aer'uiJ on the waving tree.
Pope's Efpjy tn Man.

Harvey on Confumptions.

Foes to all living worth except your own,
And advocates fir folly dead and gone.

the fcriptural and facrcd fenfe,

Mhv

This quits an empire, that embroils a ftate.
Charles to.thc convent, Philip to the field.

To tbefe PammachiuSf

Pancratius, P amphilius , Sic. do in fome
meafure anfwer.
Gibfon's Camden^
[which, according to various dia-

To eafe the foal of one oppreflive weight.

He that pleads any caufe, in whatever

deemer,

Aldred, altogether reverend : Alfred, altogether peaceful.

Stuincy.

ment of a judicial caufe. In a ftriS way of fpeaking, only that perfon is (tiled advocate, who is the

4. In

complete conqueror : Albert, all illujlrieus :

j^lfgifa,

Milton's Paradr hoji.

He that pleads the caufe of another in
a court of judicature.

Her advocate to the loud'ft.

only of honey, verdigreafe, and
vinegar.
^inty.
Ml, or Eal, or Al [in compound names,
as Tia.) in the Greek compounds] figniSo JElvjin is a
fies all. Or altogether.
fifting

Bacon.

adufl, or fragile.

Which with torrid heat.
And vapours as the I^ibyan air adujl.

Sre

I'll

Spenfer^s Pajlorals,

JEgyvti'acvh. n.f. An ointment con-

By this means, the virtual heat of the water
will enter ; and fuch a heat as will not make the

apology ; a word in little ufe.
If any there are who are of opinion that there

2.

little needed, or minding to furnilh our tongue
with this kind wherein it faultcth.

not in ufe.

:

Adu'st. adj. \aduftus, Lat.]
1. Burnt up; hot as with fire ; fcorched.

:

;

that perfon

goat-l^rds.
Which moved him rather in plagues otherwife
to write, doubting, perhaps, his ability, which he*

nor ftorch, doth mellow, and not adure.
Bacon's Nat. Htji.ti" 319-

pies,

jays, daws, and ravens ; of which parrots have an
mdungut bill, hut the relV not.
Bacons Nat. Hi/I. N° 238.

is

A

Such a degree of heat, which doth neither melt

bending inwards ; hooked.

1

See Advowson.
[In

Avv'KQVi.adj. [WawfBJ.Lat.] Crooked;
The birds

n.f.

advowfon.

ednefs ; flexure inwards j hookednefs.
There can be no queftion, but the aJunc'itj of

fVifeman's Surgery,

the eye.

Advowe'.

Aou'NCiTY.n./. [«<A«»a>flx, Lat.] Crook-

^incy.

^gilops is a tubercle in the inner canthui of

a word of little ufe.
When, by glaciation, wood, draw, duft, anJ

into ice, the other bodies, being accidentally pre(ent in that liquor, are frozen up in it, but not
BoyU.
really united.

A

temper.

and he had made a marriage compounded between
Bacen's Henry Vll.
an advontry and a rape,

:

;

has been long out of ufe, being changed
to e fimple, to which, in words frequently occurring, the <jrof the Romans
is, in the fame manner, altered, as in
equatir, equinoSial, and even in Eneat.
yE'ciLOPS. H.f. [ntytKu-^, Gr. fignifying
goat-eyed, the goat being fubjeft to this
ailment.]
tumour or fweHing in the
great corner of the eye, by the root of
the nofe, either with or without an inflammation : alfo a plant fo called, for
its fuppofed virtues againft fuch a dif-

A-

Fr.]

dultery.

««'''' Origin.

fenfible.

1

Milton's Parai. Lcjl.

Advoca'tion. n.f. [from ad'vocate.'] The

AOUMBKATE.

;.

Me his aJvocMi,

^

And propitiation ; all his works on me,

flight and imperfeft reprefentation. See

.

A E R

A E

A D V

5.

fre-

quent ufe in the Latin language, which
feems not properly to have any place in
the Englifli ; fmcc the et of the Saxons

High

;

elevated in fttuauon, and therc»

fore in the air.

A

fpocious city ftood, with flrmeft walls
Sure mounded, and with numerous turrets crown'd.
Aerial fpires, and citadels, the feat
Philips.
Of kings and heroes refolute in war.

A'SRIK.

This IS only the antiquated worJ for
quality of being affable? eafinefs of
manners; courteoufnefs ; civility ; conaffeiiion.
defcenfion.
It is commonly ufed of To AFFE'CT. t/. a. [affe^er, Fr. affdo,

A'ERtE. n. f. [airie, Fr.] The proper
word, in hawks and other birds of prey,
for that which we generally call a neft

A'FFABLE. adj.

Eafy of manners;

accoftable ;
It

See Far.

periours.
He waj affable, and b«th well and fair fpoken,
and would ufe ftrange fweetnefs and blandilhment of words, where he delired to afFe^ or per-

At a great diftance.
And breathe (hort-winded accents of new broils,
To be commenc'd in ftroudj afar remote ?
Sbaiefpttirt'% Henry IV.

We hear better when we hold our breath than
2.

To or from a great diftance.

and affable
writers of his age.
fcrene

3.

From afar ;

The rough Vulturr.us, furious in its courfe,
With rapid dreams divides the fruitful grounds,
And/roBi afar in hollow murmur (bunds.
Addifon on holy.

A'ffableness.
Courtefy ;

upon

countenance

f.
affability.

A'ffably. adv.

[from

[from

Much fufpcfling his fecrct ends, he entertained
a treaty of peace with Frante, but fecretly and
afar off, and to be governed as occaiiors (hnild
Sir J'^hn HayivarJ.
\3xv.

n.f,

matters.

A

thee out three fuch enemies again.
Shaiefptari't Henry IV.
Till h« cherifli too much beard.
And make Love, or me, afrard.

Ben yanfoni Underivsodj.
2. It has the particle of before the objeft

of fear.

Peacbam.
It

is

facred

now obfelete

;

the

laft

author

blaft

upturni them

Ixing guard it yours

1.

Dryd. mfe of Batb.
6.

Afpab j'lity. n.f. [affaiilile. Ft. af.
T'.e
fabilitai, Lau See AFPAii«i.]

J*r(c»-.

fondnefs of a lover.
Addifon, Speffator, N° j 7 1.
Coquet and coy at once her air.
Both dudicd, though both li^em negledled
Carelefs (he is with artful c^e,
Congreve,
AffcSling to feem una(feftcd.
The confcious hulband, whom like fymptomi

!

feize.

leemcth that as the feet have a fymprthy
with the head, fo the wrifts have a fympathy
with the heart; we fee the affeds and pallions of
the heart and fpirits are notably difclofed by the
pulfe.
Bacon's Natural Hifliry, a" ij-j.

Quality; circumftance.
1
(ind it difficult to make out one fmgle ulcer,
as authors defcrifae it, without other

Ihew of fomething ; to
ftudy the appearance of any thing j
with feme degree of hypocrify.
a

Thcfe often carry the humour fo far, till their
afffSled coldncfs and indifFcrcncc quire kills all- the

Affeftion ; pafllon ; fenfation.

affea-. joined to it.

To make

Another nymph, amongd the many fair,
Before the reft affeaed dill to ftand.
And watch'd my eye, preventing my command.

Charges on her the guilt of their dlfeafe ;

It

z.

If I affcfi it more.

To tell us women what vie mo<i affefl.

Great tyranny, lay thou thy balis furc;
For gnodncfs ilares not check thee
His title is offrar'd.
Sbattfp. Marheth.
Affe'ct. n.f. [from the verb nffeB.]

from the

Milieu' I Paradife Lifi. It. x.

!

Sbakefpcare' s Henry IV.
Think not that wars wc love, and drift; affeB ;
Or that we hate fweet peace.
Fairfax, b» ii,
-None but a woman could a man diredl

tVatti's Lcg'uk.

Bleed, bleed, poor country

Hookerj b, i.

Than as your honour, and as your renown.
Let me no more from this obedience rife.

:

fouth,

Notut and Afer, black with thund'rous clouds.

Scripture plentifully containeth, they did

There is your crown ;
And he that wears the crown immortally,

Wh.it St. John's (kill in date affairs.

whom I have found ufing it, is Sedley.
adveric

little

in wonderful fort affe^.

What Orm'>nd's valour, Oxford'^ cares,
To aid their (inking country lent.
Was all dcftroy'd by one cv -nt.
Sivift.
To Afpe'ar. v. n. [from affer, Fr.] To
confirm ; to give a fandion to ; to
eftablifti
an old, term of law.

jTFER. n.f. [Lat.] The fouth-weft wind.
With

to regard with fondnefs.
which fomc of the heathen did
chance to hear, concerning fuch matter as the

!

Fear is defcribed by Spenfer to ride in armour,
at the claihing whereof he looks afeard o/himfelf.

To be fond of; to be pleafed with;
That

1 wai not born for courts or great affairi ;
pay my debts, believe, and fay my prayers. Pofie.
A good acquaintance with method will greatly
alTiii every one in ranging, difpofing, and manag-

ing all human affairs.

Thon being heir apparent, could the world pick

To tend to; to endeavour after; fpoken
of things.
The drops of every fluid affiSl a round figure^

I

Fahy Siutert.
But fell me, Hal, art thou not horridly afiardf

fpoken

to love;

Bufinefs ;

for to fright, with a redundant.]
a. Frighted ; terrified ; afraid.

to endeavour after :

by the mutual attraftion of their parts ; as the

DUl.

Fr.]

;

globe of the earth and fea affeHs a round figur*,
by the mutual attra(3ion of its parts by gravity.
Neivton's Optich.

In an

Afe'ard. pJiTt'uifial adj. [from to fear,

fhke of fire, that flafliing in hia beard,
Him ail amaz'd, and almoft trnit aftard.

4.

;

[affaire,

To aim at

Atrldes broke
His filence next, but ponder'd ere he fpoke :
Wife are thy words, and glad I would obey.
But this proud man affells imperial fway.
Dryden's Iliad.

Aff abula'tion. n.f. \affabulatu>, Lat.]
Dia.
The moral of a fable.
Affa'ir.

mud be much more affiSled, when he conBeing, whom he appears before,

of perfons.

the

fomething to be managed or tranlafted.
It is ufed for both private and public

He loudly bray'd, that like was never heard.
And from his wide devouring oven fer.t

3.

A'fpabrous. adj. [affabre, Fr.] Skiliinilhed in a
fully made
complete
;

man cannot but be very much

and reward or
puni(h bim accordingly.
AJdijon, SpeBai»r„ N» 513.

5.

affable.']

thinking

a

will examine the actions of his life,

affable manner ; courteoufly ; civilly.

.

Ben'ley's Sermons,

liders, that this

affable. '\

workman-like manner.

4. Afar off; remotely diftant.

he

Tatlir.

n.

ae

To move the paffions.
As

cour-

all

far

affc3cd with the idea of his appearing in the prefence of that Being, whom none can fee and live;

With graceful memoty. Mit'tan'i Par. Lo/1, b. viii.
It is applied to the external appearance; benign; mild; favourable.
Augudus appeared, loi-king round him with a

Heftor hiftcntd to relieve his boy ;

from a diftant place.

fituation imaginable.

2.

Baccn.
fuade any thing that he took to heart.
Her father is
An affable and courteous gentleman.
Shaktjft. Tarn* Shrew.
Gentle to me and affable hath been
Thy condefcenfion, and (liall be honour'd ever

So ihaken as we are, fo wan with care.
Find we a time for frighted peace to pant,

fo

Yet even thofe two particles do reciprocally
afftB each other with the fame force and vigour,
ii they would do at the fame didance in any other

ufed of fu-

is

evil ;

thefe qualities relate to, and aff^^, the a£^ions of
men.
Soutb's Sermons.

affahilis,

teous ; complaifant.

Difmifs'd his burnilk'd helm that (hone tfar.
The pride of warriours, and the pomp of war.
Dryden.

names, in matters of good and

Lat.]
1.

and hollow, with fomewhat in it
^imy.
that rattles upon fhaking.
Afa'r. adv. [from a and at., and/ar.]

n.

[affable, Fr.

Milton's Paradife Lojf, h. x,

The generality of men are wholly governed by

admonition, all (ignifications ol
tendernefs, care, and watchfulnefs, mud be exTaylor.
prefl'ed towards children.
It is impoilible for a publick minifter to be fo
open and eafy to all his old friends, as he was in
his priva;e condition ; but this may be helped out
VEjirangi.
by an affability of addrefs.

nut,

contrary ; infomuch as in liftening to attain a
foonil tfir off, men hold th«ir breith.
Bacm'i Natural Htjiory, N° 284.

Scarce tolerable.

tloi', affabil'uy,

fo called, from its dark colour, prepared of quickfilver and fulphur, ground

1 .

men, and fo defirous to oblige them,
not enough confider the value of the

all

Clarend.
obligation, or the merit of the perfon.
All inftinces of charity, fwcecnefs of converfa-

DriS.
The obfervation of the air.
.S'thiops-mineral. «./ A medicine

together in a marble mortar to a black
powder. Such as have ufed it moil,
think its virtues not very great, ^incy.
^ti'tes. »./ [i(T^, an eagle.] Eagleftone. It is about the bignefs of a chell-

to

that he did

DiiS.

to produce effefts in any

;

The fun
Had (ird his precept fo to move, fo /hine.
As might afftSi'Cm earth with cold and heat,

Sbakefpcar£.

lity

To aft upon
other thing.

He was of a mod flowing courtefy and affabi-

and <r«V1«, Gr.]

[a)ij

1

Her affaiiiity and bailifu! nioderty,
Her wond'rous qualities, and mild behaviour.

A'eromancv. «./. [aif and fia»)i?> Gr.]
Dii?.
The art of divining by the air.
Aero'metry. »./ [i^ and (x/l^iV] The
art of meafuring the air.

affeilum, Lat.]

fuperiours.
Hearing of her beauty and her wit.

Coivell.

in other birds.

Aero'logy. n./. [aie and \oy&; Gr.]
The doctrine of the *r.

Aero'scopy. ft./.

A F F

A F F

A F F

fjmptoms or
ifijcman.

Affiiiing fury, adls a madman's part.
He'll ri|i the fatal fccret from her heart. Gran-vlllr.

i

7.

To imitate in an unnatural and conftrained manner.
Sj enfer, in affiBing the ancients, writ no language ; yet 1 would have him read for his matter,
but as Virgil read £noius.
Stnjonjun'i D'lfcoveries,

8.

T*

To convift of fome crime

8.

;

to attaint

with guilt ; a phrafe merely juridical.
By the civil law, if a dowry with a wife be proand not paid, the hultand is not obliged to
•llow her alimony.
But if her parents (hall become infolvent by fome misfortune, (he (lull have
alimony, unlefs you can affifi them with fraud,
in promifing what they knew they were not able
ttiifed

to perform.

Ayliffc's

Partr^m.

AFFECTA'TiON. «./. [offiiHalio, Lat.J

jlfftHicni, at joy, grief, fear, and anger, with
fuch like, being, at it were, the fundry falhions
and forms of appetite, can neither rife at the
conceit of a thing Indifferent, nor yet choofe but
Honker, h. i.
rife at the fight of fome things.
To fpeak truth of Ciefar,
fway'd
when
his
affcCJicn:
I have not known
More than his reafon.
Shakeff. Julius Cafar.
Zeal ought to be compofed of the higheft degeees of pious affcftions ; of which fome are milder and gentler, Tome (harper and more vehement.

Fondnefs ; high degree of liking;
commonly with fome degree of culpa-

I.

Sprat^i Sermons.
I

own nature indifferent, if
men have at any

In things of tlieir
councils or

Love ;

3.

I

For y< u he
and you alone (lull (hare
His laft affcBion, as his early care.
Pofe.
4. Good-will to any objeft ; zeal ; paf-

tempted to examine it.
Gmernmeitt of the Tongue, § 5.
Some indeed have been fo amBedly vain, as to
jfountetfeit immortality, and have (lolen their

5.

deathf in hopes to be efteemed immortal.
Brcnvn'i Vulgar Errours, h. vii. c. 10.

Sivifi.

Some mifperiuafions concerning the divine attend to "the corrupt nj men's manners,
a» if they were deligned and afftBtdty chofen for
Duay t,f Piety.
that purpofe.
tributes,

Lat.]

of being affedled by any
This general fenfe is
caufe, or agent.
little in ufe.
Some men there arc love not a gaping pig j
Some tliat are mad if they behold a cat
And others, when the bag-pipe fings i' th'nofe,

Cannot contain their urine, for afftFl'ion.
Shaktff. Mtrthatit of Venice.

2. Paffion of any kind.
Then'gan the Palmer thus; moft wretched mm,
That to affcBient Joes the bridle lend ;
In their beginning they are weak and wan,
But foon through fufferance grow to fearful end.

State of the mind, in general.
There grows.

Sbakejp, Mercb, of Venice.

6.

Quality ; property.
The certaintyand accuratenefs which is attributed
to what mathematicians deliver,

/.
[from afAffe'ction ateness.
feBionate."] The quality or ftate of bert.

ing afFeftionate ; fondnefs ; tendernefs ;
good-will ; benevolence.
Affe'ction ED. adj. [from aJeSlien.]
This fenfe is
AfFefted ; conceited.
1

now obfolete.
An affeBioned afs that cons ftate without book,
and utters it by great fwaths.
Shaktfpejre's Ttvelftb Night,
Inclined ; mentally difpofed.
Be kindly affeBioned one to another.

2.

ma-

thematical difciplines, arithmetick and geometry,
where the affeBions of quantity are abftradtedly
Boyle.

confidered.

Rom. xii. lo.

Affe'ctiously. ad'v. [from nffeB.} In
Dii}.
an affeSing manner.
adj.
[from affcSt.] That
which affefts ; that which ftrongly

Affe ctive.
Pain is

uneafy a fentiment, that very little
of it is enough to corrupt every enjoyment; and
the effeft Cod intends this variety of ungrjteful
and affeBive fentiments (hould have on us, is to
reclaim our atfcflions from this valley of tears.

of its cavity, necclTarily gives the
voice fome particular affeBion of found in its paffagc before it come to the lips.
Holder's Elements of Speech.
God may have joined immaterial fouls to other
kinds of bodies, and in other laws of union ; and,
the

Kogtrt,

Paffionatenefs.

different

of paffion ;

To Affe're.
term,

fVifextn'i Surgery.

a

a.

[ajisr, Fr.]

fignifying

to confirm.

-v.

A law
See To

Such as are appointed in court-leets, &e. upon
oath, to mulft fuch a< have committed faults arbitrarily puni(hable, and have no exprefs penalty

7. State of the'body, as afted upon by any

Sidney, k. i.

:

A! FEAR

Bentlfy's Sermons,

It feemed to me a venereal gonorrheea, and others
thought it arofe from fome fcorbutical affeBion.

Full

an affeauous fpecch

Affe'rors. n./. [from ajfere."]

laws of union, there will
and natures, and

caufe.

as,

word little ufed.

arife quite different affcBions,

fpecies of th^: compound beings.

Diil.

Apfe'ctuous. adj. [from affcil."]

fliapc

from thofe

fo

Affectuo'sity. »./. [from ajfciluous ."l

The mouth being neccffary to conduit the voice
to

It is generally uled for painful.

touches.

muft be reftrained

to whac they teach,- concerning thofe purely

Impute it to my late foUtaty life, which is prone

Fairy Siueen.

In an affeftionate manner
fondly ; tenderly ; benevolently.
t innate.]

.

2. Studioufly ; with laboured intention.

The ftate

Affe'ctjon ATELY. adv. [from ajic-

A

arc either naturally or af-

Affe'ctedness. n. /. [from affiled.']
The quality of being affefted, or of
making falfe appearances.
AFFE'CTION. «./ [etffeaio,,, Fr. ajec-

When we reflcdl on all this aJfcBionate care of

Bacin.

In my moft iU-compos'd afftfiim, fuch
l^anchlcfs avarice, that w'ere I king,
1 (hould cut o(i*the nobles for their lands.
Shahfpeare's Af.uhetb.
The man that hath no mufick in hirafelf.
Nor is not mov'd with concord of fweet founds.
Is At for treafons, ftratagems, and fpoils
The motions of his fpirit are dull as night,
And his affeiiicns dark as Erebus
Let no fuch man be trudcd.

By talking fo familiarly of one hundred and ten
thoufand pounds, by a tax upon a few commofeOedl) Ignorant of our condition.

Tliomfms Spring.

Benevolent ; tender.

4.

my zeal and

which may be overborn by

Clarendon.
he never dcferted it.
All the precepts of Chriflianity command us to
moderate our p.idions, to temper our a^eBicnt toTemple.
•wards all things below.
Let not the mind of a ftudent be under the
influence of warm affeBi''* to things of fenfe,
when he comes to the ft arch of truth.
Walts' s Improvement of the Mind.

Perhaps they are affeHedly ignorant ; they arc

»fft£liinu

Away trey fly
AffcBionate, and undefiring bear
The mod delicious morfel to their young.

mine own judgment,

Set your affcBion upon my words ; de(ire them,
IVijUom, vi. 11.
and ye (hall be inrtruited.
His integrity to the king was without biemi(h,
and his affefiion to the church fo notorious, that

fo willing it (hould be true, that they have not at-

tio,

He found me fitting, beholding this pifiure, I
know not with how afeBiorate countenance, but,
Siiny,
I am fure, with a mcll affcBioiuste mind.

!

dlllruft

affcBion to this caufe.

5. In a perfonal fenfe, full of affeflation ;
as, an affeSed lady.
Affe'ctedly. adv. [from affeiled.']
1. In an aifefted manner; hypocritically ;
with more appearance than reality.

tender.

Providence for our happincfs, with what wonder
muft we obfervc the little effjft it has on men
R'-gcrs's Sermons,

lionate regard.
as that

moved-j

Bacons Henry VII,

Collier on General Kindnefs.

hypocritical appearance.
Thefe antick, lifping, affeBed f\\inX3S\ss, thefe
new tuners of accents. Shakr/p. Rcmeo and Juliet

ftrongly

;

Fond ;

3.

lives,

have realbn to

[affeaionne, Fr.

being cffeB'ionate, of o.U, rt the war of France.

Make his intercft depend upon mutual ajffiSion
and good correfpondence with others.

I

adj.

could 'indift the
Stakcfptart.

Strongly inclined to; difpofed to;
with the particle to.
As for the parliament, it prefently took (ire,

2.

Nor at firft fight, like moft, admires the fair;

The model they feemed afftfftd to in their direftory, was not like to any of the foreign reClarendon,
formed churches now in the world.
X, Studied with over-much care, or with

it that

zc3:lou$.
Ii> Iheif love of God, and defire to pleafe himi
men can never be too affcBicnatc : and it is as
true, that in their hatted of Cn, men may be
Spratt's Sermons*
fom^t-mcs too p-afiinnatc.

Sbakefp. Merchant of Vt nice.

affiBtd.

Sbake/f, King Lear,

1.

warm

have acquainted you

ternally difpofed or inclined.

ffctton's ArcbittBure.

,

from affeilion.'\
Full of auedlion ;
1 .

any of thefe princely fuitors ?

Affe'cted. participial adj. [ from affi3.'\
Moved; touched with affedtion ; in-

dities, it is plain, you

Affe'ction ATE.

good-will to fome
to or ttrjjardi be-

Sbakeffeare.
What warmth is there in your affeliiom totiards

I.

,

Shakefpeare fometime*

There w is rothing in
author of eiffeBicn.

Shakcfp. Merry tfives of fVindfor.

Sftfialor, N" 264.

ill

ftage.

9. It is ufcd by
for afftBatio't.

My king is tangled* in affeHion to

the pleafurc of folitude, among thole who
cannot pofTibly be fuppofed qualifi'd, for pafling

No marvel then if he were

cloth or board, but as if they were afting upon a

A creature of the queen's, l.idy Anne BuUen.

from age to age, an afiHalion to

that manner.

AffeBion is the lively reprefentment of any paffion whatfocvet, as if the figures (lood not upon *

Who mutually hath anfwer'd my affcBion.

love

life in

Lively reprefentation in painting.

8.

Tilhlfin.

With the dear love I bear to fair Ann Page,

An artificial Ihew ; an elaborate appearance ; a falfe pretence.
It has been,

kindnefs ;

perfons ; often with
fore the perfon.

particular

time, with found judgment, mifliked conformity
between the church of God and infiJcls, the caufe
thereof hath been fomewhat clfe than only affrcHuetf, k, iv. ^ 7.
tathn of diflimilitude.

*.

can prefent nothing beyond this to your af-

fedions, to excite your love and defirc.

bility.
either

A F F

A F F

A F F

fet

down by ftatute.

Ci/ivell,

AFFI'ANCE. n.f. [affiance, from affier,
Fr.]
I.

A mwriage-contraft.
A(

At lift fuch grace I found, and meani I wrought,
Thit 1 that lady to my fpoufe had won.
Accord of friends, confent of parents fought,

Affi'nitv.

general; confidence; fecure

the hufband.

It

is

that out ftatutes fometimes are only itic affirmation,
or ratification, of that which, by common law, was
Hooker.
held before.

Affirmative, adj.

In this fenfe it has fometiraes the particle •with, and fometimes to, before the

[fiom ^^rw.]
That which affirms, oppofed to uega-

1,

fi've ;

perfon to whom the relation is contraftcd.
Tliey had
affir'ity ta

To

left

lers.

perfons,

guiltlefs

cither

fir

the tyrant, or enmity to the tyrant-kilSidney, b. ii.

vis. humility, prayer, and afijnce in him.
Uopmond's Fundmrurleh.
There can be no furer way to fucccfs, than by
ffclain-.tng all confidence in ourleJvcs, and referjint; the events of things to God with an implicit

I

A

ftate)

"v.

a.

The Britifh tongue, or Welfh, was In ufe only
in this iflar.d, having great affinity luitt the old

[from the noun

Camden.
Callick.
All things that have affinity toiih the heavens,
move upon the center of another, which they beBacon, Effiay xxiv.
nefit.
The art of painting bath wonderful affinity with
Dryd. Dufrcjnoy, jfrtf.
that of poetry.
Man is more diftinguilhed by devotion than by
reafon, as feveral brute creatures difcover fomething like reafcn, thou^jh they betray not any

affiance.'^

To betroth

;

bind any one by pro-

to

mife to marriage.

To me, fad maid, or rather widow fad,
He was a^anced long time before.
And facred pledges he both gave and had j
Filfcj errant Icaighc, infamous, and forefwore.

Sluan,

Fa'try

thing ttut bears the Icall affinity tn devotiutu

Her ftiuld Angelohavc married, was a^anced to
her b) oath, and the nuptial appointed ; between
which time of the contra^, and limit of the folemnity, his brother was wrecked, having in that
veiM the dowry of his lifter.
Shahjfearti Meafurifar Mtajure*

wh e'er thou art, fecurely reft

Between the floods of Sala and of Elve.
Sbakejf. Henry V.

OJ}Jpy-

[from affiance.] He
that makes a contraft of marriage beDid.
tween two parties.
Affida'tion. l"./. [from affii/o, Lat.
Akfida'ture. J See Affied.] Mutual
coatraft ; mutual oarh of fidelity. Diil.

ArFl'AKCER.

K. /.

Affida'vit. »./

[njii/a'vit figni&es, in

the language of the common law, he
mode talh.] A declaration upon oath.

You faid, if 1 return'd next *fize in Lent,

To declare pofitively
judgment

affirm ; or, if there be caufe, to revcrfc the judgments wliich have been given in the court of king's

D',nne.

N ' 4S

I

Afpi'ed. participial adj. [from the verb
ojy, derived from ajfido, Lat. Brafton
uling the phrafe afidare mulieres.] Join-

ed by coutraii

affianced.
Be we affuii-, and fuch aHurancc ta'en,
I

I

.

n.f.

ad and fiUui,
aft of taking-

[ from

Adoption; the

A'ffinace.

n. /,

[ttffiaage,

I'r.]

This gentleman vou*.hes, upon warrant of bloody
and lefs attemptable, than any of our ladies.

another ;

Joinrelated to

If men conftantly affixed applaufe and difgrace

To conneft confequentially.

2.

The d"£lrine of irrefiftibility of grace, in work,
ing whatfoever it works, if it be acknowledged,
there is nothing to be affixt to gratitude.
Hammotid'i Fundamentals

Thou doft deliver more or lefs than truth,
Sbahfprtri't Oliilh.
Thou art no foldicr.

So many gazers as on her do Hare,
Upon the lowly ground affixed arc.

of a word.
In the Hebrew language, the nr.un has its affixi,
to denote the pronouns poiicHive or relative.
C/jrie's Latin Grammar.

The pofition afftrmed.
That he ShM receive nu benefit from Chrift, is
the affirmation whereon his dcfpair is founded ; and
one \\ay of removing this difmal apprehenlion, is,
to

cgnvinu lum,

that Chriil't de«tli, if he per-

Spenfcr.

Affi'x. ?i.f. [affixum, hs-t.] A term of
grammar. Something united to the end

Sbate/peare't Cymhirme.

another.
If p irtially affin'd, or leagu'd in office,

Obfulete.
Her modcli eyes, abafhed to behold

Simply to fatten or fix.

3.

affirmation, hik to be more virtuous,

2.

that has fettled in his

where they ought, the principle of fliame would
have a very good influtnce on publick conduftj
though on fecret viilinies it lays no rellraint.
Rogtrs't Sermam.

:

Af fi'ned. adj. [from affinii, Lat.]
to

mind determined
names affixed to them, will be able
to difcern their difTerences one from another.
Lode,

He

ideas, with

Affi rma'tion. n.f. [affirmatio, hat.]
op1. The aft of affirming or declaring

The

a. [affigo,a^xHm,'L^i>.]

fubjoin.

Bacnn.

pofed to negation or denial.

-v.

To unite to the end, or apojieriori; to

1.

:

aft of refining metals by the cupel. Dicl.

affinity

To AvFl'x.

That

Diil.

The

the vi-ord virtue, means only courage, or, at
moft, our duty toward our neighbour, without including, in the idea of it, the duty which we owe
fVatts't Logitkt
to God.

Haters Origin of Mankind.

perfon that affirms ; a declarer.

Brown i Vtilgar Errours.

[from affirm.]

If by the word virtue, the affirmer intends our
whole duty to God and man ; and the denier, by

Affi'rmance. n.f. [from affirm.] Con-

of the common law.

». /.

perfon that affirms.

Thofe attributes and coucepcrons that were apand offirmabU of him 'vhen prefcnt, arc
now affirmable and applicable to him though pal^.

Chamtcrs.

for..

vacuity within them.

Affi'rmer.

plicable

Asrhallwithcithcrpart'*ia^reeni«ntltand. Shaktjp.

A F F L r a't o N

The reafon of man hath no fuch reftiaints
concluding not only affirmatively, but negatively;
not only affirming, there is no magnitude beyond
the lall heavens, but alfo denying, theie is any

Appi'hmant. n.f. [itom affirm.] The

;

[from affirnux'

the poUtive fide ; not negatively.

Bacm'i Ad-vice 10 Sir G. fi/lien.
In this fenfe we fay, fo affirm the truth.

firmation
oppofed to repeal.
Thio AatutE did but rel'.orc an ancient ftatute, which was itfelf alio made but in affirmance

«</*.

In an affirmative manner; on

ti-ve.]

which may be affirmed.

Cjunt Rechteren Ih^uM have m.ide ajjiAai-it
that his fervants had been aSronted, and then
Monficur Mcfiia^cr wouid have dsne him juf^icc.

in

Taylor.

AFFi'RMATlvBLy.

bench.

\ixc3m. affirm.]

fo

inducing

thee.

:

fome cafes, properly to examine, and then to

in

or ccafe, there negative ones begin;

efficacy of the authority, or the realon,

affrm a

oppofed to rcverfe or repeal.
The houfe of peers hath a power of judicature

a

peratcly, according to the degree of that perfuafion, which is, or ought e> be, begotten by the

To ratify or approve a former law, or

Afpi'r M ABLE. «i^'.

In th' interim my letters (hould take place

Spiiliiior,

as, to

:

habit of affirming with vehemence ; pofitive ; dogmatical.
Be not confident and affirmative in an uncertain matter, but report thmgs modeftly and tem*

fdft.
2.

I flioulu be in remitter of your grace ;

Of nff.da-vin.

;

Dryd.n.

Applied to perfons, he who has the

3,

To Affi'rm. «y. a,
1

bcl'ev.d

mechanick?, where attradion ceafes, there a reNetut. Opt.
pulfive virtue ought to fucceed.

To

[affirmo, Lat.]

Affjnc'd in my faith, a friendly gued.
Po/te's

nlflr

declare ; to tell confidently : oppofed
to the word deny.
Yet their own authors faithfully affirm.
That the land Salike lies in Germany,

To give confidence.
Strjngei- !

n.

many have

fenfe ufed chiefly in fcience.
As in algebra, where a/^rma/ii<« quantities va-

MJipn, Sfecl. No zoi.

Tc AFFI'RM. V.

that

That which can or may be affirmed

2,

fyomn.

kingdoms were never married.

my puvpofe,

the affirmative.

Relation to ; connexion with ; referablance to : fpoken of things.

2.

Atterbury^s Serrmnt*

aftjnce,

To Affi'ance.

cient for

Kings, iii. I.
breach was made with France itfelf, notwithftanding f) (irait an rjiriy, fo lately accomplilhed
as if indeed (according to that pleafant maxim of

the affirmati-ve

Whether there are fuch beings or not, 'ti^ juffi-

of Egypt, and took Pharaoh s daughter.

Religion receives man into a covenant of gracp,
where there is pardon reached out to all truly penitent finners, and afllHancc prooufed, and engaged, and beftowed upon very cafy conditions,

is,

pofition.
for the affirmative, we are now to anfwer fuch
proofs of theirs as have been before alleged.
Hooter,

And Solomon made affinity taith Pharaoh king

confined.

in which fenfe we ufe the affirma-

abfolutely, that

tii'i

none alive, by the blindnefs of

many

killing

rage

3. Truft in the divine promifes and prothis fenfe it is now almoft
teftion.

ed by

:

The learned in the laws of our land obferve,

oppofed to conjan-

guinity, or relation by birth.

^Ah

Lat.]

relation con-

form the condition required, {hall certainly belong
Hammcnd^i Fundametitalu
to him.
oppofed to repeal.
3. Confirmation

trafted by the h'jibaud to the kindred
of the wife, and by the wife to thofe of

reliance.
Tb^ duke Is virtuous, mild, and too well given
To dream on evil, or to work my downfall.—
!
what's more dangeious than thi» fond
offi.;iice f
Seemi he a dove ? his feathcrj are but borrowed.
Sijkcf/.e.ire'i Hctrry VI.

I.

/ [ajiitite. Ft. from a/,

Lat.]
Relation by marriage;

Fairy ^emj i. n.

1 .

«.

f.nii,
1.

j^arce made, my happincfs begyn.
2. Truft in

A F F

A F F

A F F

Affi'xion, n.f. [from affix.]
1.

2.

The aft of affixing.
The ftate of being affixed.

a

^

DiiT.

AF^•LA'T^o^.

A F F
Afpia'tion. »./.

A F F

[/7^o, /i^atum, L».t.]

1.

The kEL of breathing upon any thinj;.
Dia.

jtFFLJTrS.

The poet writing ngainrt

his

To put to pain

;

genius, will be

plenty.
Thofe degrees of fortune, whlch~give fuUief!
and afflutncc to one ftation, may be want and pe-

[afiiao, affliaum,
to

nury in another.
Rcgcrt.
Lit joy or eafe, let affucree or content.
And the gay confcicnce of a life well fpcnt,
Calm ev'ry thought, infpirit ev'rj' grace.
Poft.

tor-

ment.
It tucheth us how God thought fit to pliguc
and affi'iti them; it doth not appoint in what
form and manner »• ought to punifli the fin ol

idohtry ir) others.
Ihdlcr, h. v. § 17.
coward conl'ciencc, how doft thou agliil mc
The lights burn blue Is it not dead mijiiight ?
Coid tearful drop« tUnd on my trembling fle/h.

O

—

Slaktfi,.Bkh.in.

Give nnt over thy mind to heavinefs, and affiiH
not thyfglfin thireown counfel. Ecclus. xxt. zi.
A father aJjUSltd ivith untimely mourning, when
lie hath made an image of his child foon taken
awiy, now honoured him as a God, which was
then a dead man, and delivered to tliofe that were
under him ceremonies and facrifices.
ffiftiuit,

Lat.]

'I he mother was fo
affllStd at the lofs of a fine
boy, who was her only fon, that (he died for grief

I fee thee,

London out of the country.

pens to come to it.

Some virtues are only fccn in iiffliahr, and fomc
in profperily.
Mii}J'M, Sptliaf.r, ti't^y.

That
tor-

Tiiey tiund martyrdom a duty drefled up indeed with all that was terrible and ajp.-flive to
huHjan nature, yet not at all the lefs a duty.

1.

2!

'V^"''^' J'-'^"

c.irc of food,

•

Sbakefprnre's henry VI,
Godlike his courage feem'd, whom nor delight
Could foften, nor the face oi Am'n affright. Waller.
He, when his country (threaten'd with alarm]
Requires his courage and his conq'ring arm.
Shall, more tlian once, the Punic bands affri/^bt.

Dry/Un'i j^neid.
It is ufed in the paflive, fometimes with

2.

at before the thing feared.

Thou ftialt not be affrigkud at them

ISrcivrl'i

3.

To be able to fell.

Vuhor Err6urs.
always

It is uled

with reference to fome certain price ; as,

/ can afford this for lefs than the other.
They lisl their magazines in times of the grcareft
plenty, that li> they may nj^ri/ cheaper, nnd inCfcafe the public revenue at a fmall exp-nce of its

Spreads (low difeafc, and darts aJllU'mi pain.
Prior,

nfflu-

n^^'^'n'w'"!-

4.

MJifon m Italy.

To be able to bear expences

;

as, tra-

for thf
Drut.vVi. ai.

Lord thy God is among you.
3.

:

Sometimes with the particle iv/VA before the thing feared.

As one affrigbt
With hetlilh fiends, or furies mad uproar.

Fairy Sluetn.

fecurity ; and this is the alHiai.m of hell, to wham
it affiide'.h dcfpair and rtmcdilefs calamity.

expos J

[aj^mtce, Fr.

Thy name affrights me, in whofe found is death.

He then uprofc.

This is the coiifolatiun of all good

I'tilijti.

/.

as, the fill af-

To

afi^eft with fear ; to terrify. It generally implies a fudden impreffion of fear.

men, unto
whom his ubiquity a^r,/./i. continual comfirtand Afpri'cht. n.f.

Reftlefs Ptoferpine

,,.

;

To him did open, and afforJ/J way.

—On the fpacious land and liquid main

*«//«, Lat.

To yield or produce

This
feems to be the primitive fignification.
2. To grant, or confer any thing; generally in a good fenfe, and fometimes in
a bad, but lefs properly.
So foon as Maurmon there .irriv'd, the door

'.

To windj, and ftorms, and jaws of fava^e death.

A'rrLWENCE.

1.

fords grain ; the trees affordfruits.

Nor con they find
I

To Affri'ght. "o. a. [See Fright.]
from one place to

flows

ger, Fr.]

AdtlifaCi Crf/c.

;,/Whe« tJ) rcdre thcmfclves,'or where appeafe

the affriliiun would quickly blacken them ; and,
congruouily hereunto, I have found pens blacked
almoft all over, when I had a while carried them
about me in a filver cafe.
£y/«.

To Affo'rd. V, a. [ajourrer, alfourra-

Great and majeftic in hit grieft, like Cato ?

have divers times obferved, in wearing filver-

fwords, that, if they rubbed upon ray
cloaths, if they were of a light-coloured cloth,

An inflammation either fimple, confifting of
an ho: and fanguincous affluxiou, or elfc denominablc from other humours, according unto the
prcdomiaaocy of melancholy, phlegm, or choler.
Bro^vn^i l^ulgar Errouri.

Shaieff,. trimn's Tall.

painful ;

I

hilted

another.

to-

confufion : out of ufe.
Let the night be calm and quietf >me.
Without tempcftuaus ftorms or la J affray. Sp!nfer.
n.f. [affriaio, Lat.] The
aft of rubbing one thing upon another.

Locke.-

place.

That which

Tumult;

Afpri'ction'.

Afflu'xion. n.f. [affluxioyhax,]
1. The aft of flowing to a particular

t'lOV,

aihidtion ;

Craunl.

of colder or warmer, clean or foul \yater, as it hap-

mifery

Where fliall we find the man that bears aMk-

which caufes
menting.

"*

Harviy en Cvi:fumftwtii.

2.

[from ajlia.]

battle : in this fenfe it is written //-ay.
2.

An animal that muft lie Hill, receives the afflux

gether,

a///,

That which flows to another place.

agglutinating one affiux of blood ^o.anotl)er.

Whofe frelh complexion, and whofe heart

Akfm'ctive.

of one or more
law term. A

perfons upon others ; a

1 he caufe hereof cannot be a fupply by procreations; crgt, it muft.be by new
affiuxa to

Bjfidci you know,
Profperity's the vei-y bond of love,

,

wealthy.

fluence.
2.

'oppofed toyoy or prc/perity.

jff.l'Jkn altera.

;

Lord and end of my defire.

Tlie aft of flowing to fome place ; af-

to pray againft

of forrowfulnefs;

.

fright ; to terrify ; to ftrike with fear.
This word is not now in ufe.
The fame to wight he never would difclofe.
But when as mongers huge he would difmay.
Or daunt unequal armies of his foes,
Or when the flying heavens he woiAd affray.

}!aney on dnfimftiOK!.

The infant grows bigger out of the womb, b\

We'll bring you to one that you have cozened
uf m )ney ; I think to repay that money will be a
V-ing ^fflirtm,
SL-Jkcffcare.
ftate

by the

To AFFRA'Y. -v. a. [effrayer, or effriger,
Fr. which Menage derives from /V<7f cr ;
perhaps it comes from frigus.]
To

Prior.

The

JUokcr, h. v. §.4?.

Law of England.

Fairy Shtecn.
A'ffluentness. n.f. [from affluent.]
AFFRA'Y,or ApFRA'yMEfTT. n.f [from
The quality of being affluent.
Dia.
the verb.]
A'fflux. ti.f. [affiuxus, Lat.]
1. A tumultuous aflault

afflmion it naturally grievous ; therefore na-

2. 'The

Halt's C'.mvar.

To Affra'kchise. i/.«. {affrancbertYx.]

Which human vows at fmoking (hrines implore.

To the flclh, as the apoftle himfdf granteth,
all adverfity.

a greater bulk,

Abundant ; exuberant

2,

The caufc of pain or forrow ; calamity.
which caufeth fear, tcacheth

to

°^^'^.

Affli'ction. n.f. [a^iaic, Lzt.]
all

raifed

a^K.w blood that is tranfmitted out of the mother's

1

flided ; forrowfulnefs ; grief.
Afpli'cter. ». /. [from a^;V7.]
perfon that affliils.

^, tiire,

croachments made in the time of RUbard I. and
Henry II. who had made new ojftrejlar'ient, and

To make free.

Thefe parts are no more than fnundition-piles
of the enfiiing body; which are afterwards to be

Add'Jan, HfcB.

Affli'ctrdness. n. f. \itom affliaed.']
The ftate of affliftion, or of being af-

I.

Afforesta'tiok. n. f. [from afforeft.']
The charter de Forcjlj was to rcfjj m the en-

Flowing to any part.
increafcd and

appcareth,

much extended the rigour of the foreft laws.

A'FFLUENT. adj. l^-ffiutnt. Fr. affluent,

Prior.

The paffiv e to be nffliaed, has often at
before the caufal noun ; by is likewife
proper.

^

by Chana dt Forrfta, that he
woods and waftes, to the grievance
of the fubjeft, which by that law were difaffo.
retted.
S,r Jihn D:smcs 'n Irtlaxi.
It

Jiueiice,

1

Motiirr Education.

affirtjird many

Loaded and bleft with all the ajftuenl ilore,

And my heart labours with a fudden figh.

of ".

S'U'ift ^n

To AFFO'REST. i/. a. [affcrcftare, Lat.]
To turn ground into forcft.

A'ffluency. n.f. The fame with /t/"-

A melancholy tear tiJliBs my eye.

Z.

Exuberance of riches; ftream of wealth

2.

to grieve ;

The f.ime errours run through ill families,
where there is wealth enough to afford that their
fons may be good for twthing.

not relate the affvenic of young nobles
after the voice of our
pri^tc being therr liaJ been nnlfcd.
H^otrcr.

Lat.]
I .

almoft always ufed figu

is

from hence into Spain,

SfcKct nil tbt Oiiffiy.

AFFLI'CT. 1'. a.

7'e

ders can effird more fncry in peaee than

ivar.

It

I (hall

f.

nke ^ projliet withoac his afiatus.

The aft of flowing to any place; concourfe.
ratitTly.

[Lat.]
Coromuni
cation oKthe power of prophecy,.
r.

A F F

I.

Terrour;

fear.

Fairy Slueai, h. ii. car.t. 5.

[from, the verb.}

This word

chiefly

is

poetical.

As the moon, doathed With cloudy night,
(liew to him that walks ia fear and fad
'

Does

affright.

Fairy S^uten,

Wide was his parifh, not contraflcd clofe
In ftieets, but here and there a draggling houfe

Yet ftill he was at hand, without rcqtieft.

;

To ferye the fick, to fuccour the diftrefs'd ;
Tempting, on /oot, alone, without affright.
The dangcri of a dirk tcmpeftuous mght.
Dryden's Faifeu

2.

The

A F F

A F L

The caufe of fear; a terrible objedl;
dreadful appearance.

e.

YouVedone enough; foryoudefign'd my chains:
The grace is vanifii'd, but th' affront remains.

And we muft take the current when it fetvei.
Or lofe our venturer. Shakrjfenre's 'Jiditii C^efjr.

Drydof s Aitrengx.i:ht.

Take any paflion of tire foul of man, while it is
predominant and afiiat, and, jiift in tlie critical
height of it, nick it <vith fome lucky or unlucky
word, and you may as certai;:!y over-rule it ta
your own purpofe, as a fpark of fire, filling upon
gunpowder, will infallibly blow it up.
Scmh,
There arc generally fcvcral hundred loads of tim-

1 fee the gods
Ufbra-d our fuff'rings, and woulj humble them.

He that is found reafonabic in one tiling, is concluded to be fo in all j and to think or fay otherwif?,
is thought fo unjurt an affrcr.t, and fo fcnfelefs a
cenfurc, that nobody ventures to do it.
Locke.
There is nothing which we receive with fo much
rcluft.mce as advice : we look iipon the man who
gives it us, as offering an a/?/-';^? to our uiiderftand.
ing, and treating us like children or idiots.

By fending thcfe afrighti^ while we are here,
That we might laugh at their ridiculous fear,
B. Jorf. Catilhi.

The «-ir at hand appeal with more affright.
And rifes cv'ry moment to the fight. Dryd. AEntiJ.
Affri'ghtfui,. ai/J. [from afrigbt.]
Full of aft'right or terrour ; terrible ;
dreadful.
There is an ahfence of all that is dcrtrufllTe or
effrigirful to humia nature.
D^caycf Pictv,

Affri'chtment. n.f. [irom aj'fight .^
t. The impreflion of fear; terrour.
Slie awaked with the effrighiment of a dreama

A F O

Addifon'! SfcStator, N" 512.

3.

Outrage ;

aft of contempt, in a

Paflionate words or blows from the tutor, fill
mind with terrour ar.d uffrigbiirint
which immediately takes it wholly up, np.d leaves
no room for other impreflion.
Locke.

2.

general fenfe.

;

not on horfehack.

<

He tliought it bell to rttiun, tor that day, t> a

The temple, oft the law with foul affrnnn.

vilLig':

Abominations rather,

fome fort, the next day early, to come afcr.f thi-

4, Difgrace ;

Mdr-n^s Par.Tdife Regained,

This fenfe is rather

(hame.

not far off; and difpa:ching his horfc (n

ther.

ShaL:fl>eait.

_

2.

Ill
I

Antonius attacked the pirates of Crete, and, bv

aftion ;

as,

a deftgn is afoot.

pr'ylhec, when thou fecit that aft a/lot,

Ob.erve mine uncle.

fenfe of which affmni he died with grief.

Ariutbr.ol 01: Coins.

.

Ev'n with the very comment of tiiy foul

his too great prcfumptinn, was defeated"; upon the

isbakeffcare.

In mction.

3.

Affro'nter. ».yi

not^
perfon that affronts.
'Tis faid tiiey are .if>,ct.
Sbaiefpeare'i King Lear.
At f no' XT t KG. participial aJJ. [from «/"- .^fc'r E.
/re/, [from a and/ir^.
See Bs;_/0-o»/.]
That which has the quality of
FORE.]
affronting ; contumelious.
Among words which fignify the fame principal 1. Not bcLind ; as, he held the fiiicli
efor^ : not in ufe.
ideas, fome are clean and decent, others unclean
;
fome arc kind, others are a/froiitit:g and reproach- 2. Before ; nearer in place to any tJiino-;
ful, becaufe of the fccondary idea which cuttom
as, he Hood nTore hiin.
has affixed to them.
lyal'i's Logici.
3. Sooner in time.

thofe

that,

tiuJiam allidcre, to infult a

man to his

face.]

To meet face to face

;

to encounter.

This feems the genuine and original
fcnfe of the word, which was formerly
indifferent to good or ill.

We haic clofcly fent for Hamlet hither.
That he, as *twerc by accident, may here
Affr^M Ophelia,

Skahfpeare't Hamlit.
The feditioui, the next day, offrintid the king's
forces at the cntiaice of a highway ; wliom when
tliL*y found both ready and rcfolute to fight, they

To AFFLTSE.
Lat,]

-v.

a.

\affundo,

aff'ufum,

I poured

acid liquors, to try if they cont^iined

any volatile fait or fpirit, which would probably
have difcovered itfelf, by making an ebullition
with the affujcd liquor.
Boyle.

Affu'sion.

n.f.

[affiijio,

mediately became as black as ink, Grciv^i Muj'awr,.

To AFFY'.

to front.
His holy rites and folemn feails profan'd,
And with their darknefs durft affnr.t his light.

avowedly.

open

infult;

to

offend

With refpecl to this fenfe,

obicrved by Cervantes, that, if a
m.m ftrikes another on the back, and
then runs away, the perfon fo llruck is

it

a. [nfficr, Fr, affidare mu-

lierem, Brafton,]

Paradijt L;]i.

To offer an

-v.

\v.]\McA,\)W\. nor. affrDitled ;

a.n

affrcnt dX-

Did nijt this latjl war affrort thy coaft

Paradift L'_H, b. ix.
I would learn the canfe, why I'orrifmond,
Mi,'l'/n'i

Wi;hln my palace walls, within my hearing,
Almoft within my fight, affrtni) a prince,
Wt.o fbortly Oiail command him.
•

can one imagine, that the Fathers would have dared
t'l affr:r.t the wife of Autelius ?
Addijon.

Afpro'nt. n.f. [from the ^txh affront
1. Open oppofition
encounter: a fcnfe
.'\

;

not frequent, though regularly deducible from the derivation.
Frarlcfj of danger, like a petty god
I walk'd ab'jul admir'd

of all, and dreaded
0.1 boftilc ground, none daring my affront,

Samfon A^'^fijlri,

contemptu-

0U5 or rude treatment-; contumely.

He wiiuld of'rn maiulaiu I'lao'.ianus, in dnlr.
to hi» fun.

Baeon'x EJjayi.

Firft in the

Api'eld. adnj. [from a T^nii field.
Field.] To the field.

In front ; in the fore-part.
Approaching nigh, he reared hijh afore
His body monltrous, horrible, and vaft. Fairy 9.

andje/'/f.]

Many "f the paiticular fubjcds of difcnuife are
and fuch as cannot tforeband be reduced to any certain account.

occafional,

Gcvernment of tbe ToMgm.
2.

What time the grey fiy winds her fultry horn,
Batt'nirg our flocks with the frelh dews of night,

Provided; prepared; previoufly fitted.
Kor'ic will be faid, that in the former times,
whereof we have Ipiken, Spain was not lo raigh.7
as now it is ; and England, on the other fide, was
tnoie afrehatid In ali matters t»f power.

To milk my kine, for fo fiiould houfcwives do.
Cjy.

Apla't, ad'v. [from a and flat.
See
Flat.] Level with the ground.
When you would have many nev/ roots of fruktrees, take a low tre-, and bow it, and lay all W>
branches afiat upon the ground, and cart crfrth
upon them ; and every twig will take root.

Baton'' I

water ;

Natural WJliry.

[from a and float.
See
Floating; born up in the

etdv.

not

fenfe, within

finking

:

in

a

rigurauvc

Baton'i Confidnatirni on ff,H- wifi Sfaiii,

Afo'rementioned.

adj.
[from afore
and acnticned.] Mcntio.aed before.
Among the nine other parts, five are n.jt in

condition to give alms or lelicf to thofe aforementioned i being very near reduced thcmfelves to the
fame mifctable condiS-jn.
Addill!,

Ak ©'renamed, adj. [from
named.] Named before.

There h a tid" ir, the alTain of men,
Which taken at the flood, Inds on to fortune ;

afore

and

Imitate fomcihng of ciicular form, in which,
all other aforenamed proportioos, jou
fhall
help youuclf by the aiaiiwar.

as in

feaebam en Drataittjr.

view ; in motion.

Omitted, all the voyage of their life
is bound in IhatlDwi* and in miferies.
On fuch a full fca are wc sow ajitj: ;

Going before.

Apo'reh AND.oa'f. [from afore znd band.']
1. By a previous provifion.

See

We drove afield, and bith togi^ther heard

Float.]

Hbakcjfearc'i Taitjc^.

way,

Emilia, run you to the citadel.
And tell my lord and lady what hath hap'd ;
Will you go on afore?
Sbakj'feare'i OtbelU.

That I will here difmifs my loving friends.

Ai'Lo'at.

Efdras, vi. 22.
go near to

it will

To put confidence in; Afo'regoinc, participial adj. [from afore

to put trull in ; to confide. Not in ufe.
Marcus A«- Ironicus, fo I do affy
In thy upri^iUtnefs and integrity.

M.iios.

This brings to mind Faultina's fondnel's for thigh liator, and is interpreted as f;rire. But how

»ffri,r.li

2.

3.

Afield I went, amid the morning dew.

Drydtn'i Uparijh Friar.

Infult offered to the face ;

If he never drank wine afcre,

remove his fit.

Sbakefp. Titus Andr.

Tempting. a^iCTtti us with his fool cfteem

In time foregone or pad.
Whofoever fti>ulJ make light of any thing afore
fpoken or written, out of his own houfe a tree
ihould be taken, and he thereon be hanged.

Shahefpearc^i Henry VI.

.'

Yet fjtteil ih.ou an idle looker-on. Fairfax, i. 51.
But harm precedes not fin, only our foe.

Of our integrity.

1.

Unto the daughter of a wurthlefs king.

To AfFy'. t. n.

Hhakcjpeare s Kit:g Lear.

Afo're. adv.

To betroth in order

to marriage,
Wed-lcd be thou to the hags of hcli.
For daring toa^ a mighty lord

is

ways implying a juftificationofthe aft.

afore you.

The aft

Lat.]

2. To meet, in an boftile manner, front

ent;rparlance.

If jour diligence be not fpeedy, I fhall be there

To pour one thing upon another.

Sir Jr,tn Hayivard,

dL-fir'^d

Of Albany's and Cornwall's pow'rs you hearti

The

[{torn affro/it.]

of pouring one thing upon another.
Upon the affujion of a tincture of galls, it im-

2.

On foot

1.

Oft have they violated

Whether

To AFFRO'NT. v. a. [affronter, Fr. that
is, ad front em Jlare ; ad frontem contu-

3,

Adi'i/cn'i July.

The ftnte of fearful nefs.
under any an^uifli of
mind, return to affngbtmir.is or doubtings, have
not been hypcrites.
Eantimr.d.

i.

tributloi 3.

more Afo'ot. adv.. [from a and foot.]

peculiar to the Scotti.1i dialeft.
the child's

ber afloat, fcr tiicy cut above f.venty-.nve leagur>>
up the river ; and other rivers bring in their con-

Ato'rimaid. adj. [from afore ^ad faid.]
bald before.
It need

not po for repetition, if we refume agnin

that which we iVld in the aforrjid cxcerimeiit.

G 3

Ctcaifi lleiurai ifiijicrf, N"

7^ i

Afo're-

AFT

AFT

Afo'kbtimi. adv. [from afortiXiA timi.'\

firft

O thou that art waxen old !n victEcdncfs, now

was after happier.

thy fins which thou had committed afom'.vu itc

come to light.

Far be it from me, ti juftify the cruelties which
were at lirft ufed towards tbein, which bad their
reward foon after.
Bacon.
Thofe who, from the pit of hell

.Sujr.ni:.:.

[from the verb
It fnould therefore properly be

.\fv.\'it>. pkrti.lpial a/ij.

affray :

written with_^".]
Struck with fear ; terrified; fearful.
To perfcrute fhem with thy trmpcft, and make
them a/Vfl/V with thy ftorm.
PJ'alm ixxxWi. 15.
2. It has the particle e/ before the objedl

of fear.
There, loathing life, and yet cf death efraiJ,
In anguilh of her fpirit, thus Hie pray'd,
If, while this wearied flelhdraws fleeting breath,
Not fatisfy'd with lite, afraid of death.
It haf 'ly be thy will, that I ihould know
Glimpfe of delight, or paufe from anxio-js woe j

From now, fiom inftant now, great Sire, dil'pil
The clouds that prcl's my foul.
t'rior.
Apre'sh. adv. [from a AaA frejh. See

Anew;

again,

after inter-

million.

The Germans ferving upon great horfes, and
charged wijh heavy armour, received jrcat hurt b)
light Ikirmifliesj the Turks, with their light
horfes, ealiiy Oiunning their charge, and again,
»t their p'eafure, charging them afrtjb, when
they faw the heavy horfes almofl weary.
Kmlltl's Hifiory cf the Turks.

When once we have attained thcfe ideas, they
may be excited afrijhby the ufe of words.
In

Succeffive

times ; pofterity.

Of this

word I have found no lingular ; but fee
not why it might not be faid. This 'will

conquer ; feeing, in

who bid fair for a gibbet, to bring in a

which
flames to keep out.
fupcrftition,

their forefathers perilhcd in

Addifon,

A'fter all. When all has been taken
when there remains nothing more to be added ; at laft ; in

into the view ;

fine ; in conclufion ; upon the whole
at the mod.
They have given no good proof in aflerting this
extravagant principle ; for which, after at:, they
have no ground or colour, but a p:*fage cr two of

Sam. xxiv. 14.

This is not a common ufe.

Sometimes I placed a third prifm after a fecond,

fcripture,

and fomctimes alfo a fourth after a third, by al,
which the image might be often refraflcd fidc*ays.
Neivtcn'sOjiiicki,

mifcrably perverted,

many exprefs texts.
But, after all,
be attributed

4. Poilerior in time.
Good after ill, and after pain delight ;
Alternate, like the fccnes of day and night.

works I ftudy.

Dry Jen' I Fahlet.

to

if

in

oppofition to
Alterhury's Sermom,

they have any merit,

it is

to

fome good old authors, whofe

involved, which
away after ; the fecundine.

behind, produce fuch vlr- lent diftempers of
the blood, as make It call out a t imour.
left

}r:i.mani Surgery,

A'fterclap. v.f. [from «//<T and </<./.]

of Venus, in different poftures and habits; as
there are many particular figures of her made after

For tlie nex t morrow's mead they clofely went.
For fear of afterclafs to prevent.
Spinf. Huh. rale.

affair is fuppofcd to be at an

ral

the fame dilign.
Mdijaris Italy.
Thiiallufion is after the oriental m.i ;ier thui
in the Pfatms, how frequently are [).i:uns com-

end.

It is commonly taken in an ill fcnfc.

:

A'ftercost. ». f. [from after and cofi.]

Fofe't Oayfj'eyy notei.

The

latter charges ; the expence incurred after the original plan is exe-

A'fteb. ad-v.
In fjcceeding time.
It is ufed of time
mentioned as fucceeding fome other.

be happy af-

is generally allowed to
indulgence and amufement.
Thou haft nor youth nor age.

But, as it were, an afier-dimer's deep,

Dreaming on both.

cuted.

You mud take care to carry off the land- floods
[

and ftreams, Ijcforeyou attempt Uiaining ; left your
I

Shakefp,MeaJureforMeafart,

A'fter-endeavour. n.f.
a.nd endeavour.]

[from after
Endeavours made after

the firft effort or endeavour.
There is no reafon why the found of a pipe
Ih^yld leave traces in their brains, which, not firft,
but by their after-endeavours, ihould produce the
like founds.
Locke.

A'fter-enquiry. n.f, [from after a.nd
enquiry.]
Enquiry made after the fati
committed, or after life.
You muft either be directed by fome that take
upon them to know, or take upon yourfelf that,
which, I am fure, you do not know, or lump the
after-enquiry on your peril.

Shakrfp. Cymheline.

Tij A'p T E R E Y E . f. a. [from afier and eye.^

To keep one in view

;

to follow in view.

This is not in ufe.
Thou (houldft have made him
As little as a crow, or lefs, ere left

To aftereye him.

Shakejpeare' s Cymtelint^

A'fte R GAME. n,f. [from after andgame.J

The fcheme which may be laid, or the
expedients which are pradifed after the
original defign has mifcarried ; methods

taken after the firft turn of affairs.
This earl, like certain vegetables, did bud and
open flowly ; nature fometimes delighting tx) play
an aftergame, as well as fortune, which had both
their turns and tides in courfe.
tVotton.
The fables of the axe-handle and the wedge,
ferve to precaution us not to put ourfelvcs needlefsly upon an aftergame, but to weigh beforehand
what we fay and do.
L'EJirange's Fables,

Our firft defign, my friend, has prov'd abortive ;
Still there remains an aftergame to play.

Addifon" s Cato,

.Vfterhours. n, f, [from afier
hour.'.]
The hours that fucceed.

and"

So fmile the heav'ns upon this holy aO,

Thzt afterlfours with forrow chide us not.
Siakefpeare's Romeo andyuliet,

n. f,

[from

after

and

He that lives in fucceeding times.
By thee my promife font

Unto myfelf, let after-livers know.

Unexpedled events happening after an

fliall

dinner, which

brought

6. In imitation of.
There a c, among the old Roman ftatucs, fevc-

Sk> we cannot fay, I

A'PTER-DINNER. n.f. [from after and
dinner,]
The hour paffing ju.'t after

li-ve.]

is

The exorbitances or degenerations, whether from
a hurt in labour, or from part of the after-butb

Locke.

According to.
He that thinketh Spain our over-match, is no

good mint-man, but takes grcatnefs of kingdoms
according to bulk and currency, and not after thci;
intrinfic value.
Bacon.

I.

Aftercrops I think neither good for the land, nor
yet the hay good fur the cattle.

Fcfe on Fafi^val Fcetry.

birth was

fovereignty of Adam to princes that were to rcijn

pared to cedars.

year.

A'fter BIRTH. ». / [from afler and
A'fter-liver.
birth.]
The membrane in which the

We (hall examine the ways of conveyance of the
5.

A'fteraces. »./ [Uom after and ages.]

religion,

whom is the Icing of Ifrael come out?
After whom doft thou putfue i After a dead dog,

after him.

*Tis true, fonic dolors in a fcantier fpace,
I mean, in each apart, contrail the place
Some, who to greater length extend the line.
The church's after accefiation ]o\n,
Vryden'i Hind ami Panther,

Sir y. Denham.

•//; r

Behind.

A

What an opinion will afterages entertain nf their

2. In purfuit of.

3.

but almoft always in its genuine and
primitive fignification ; lome, which
occurred, will follow, by which others
may be explained.
A'fter acceptation. »./. [from a/itr
and acceptation.]
fenfe afterwards,
not at lirll admitted.

Whofe wife inftruftions afterages guide.

iStaifjxare'i Henry VI.

i

Sbakeffieare't King Lear,

After is compounded with many words,

Raleigh'! Hijtory of the IVorld,
Nor to philofophcrs is praife deny'd,

nay, hefcre them, if we can.

after aflea.

Let go thy hold, when a great wheel runs down
a hill, le;l it break thy neck with following it ; but
the great one that goes upward, let him draw thee

or might, in future time,

A'FTER./r(r/. [xprep. Sax.]
1. Following in place,
j^/ur is commonly applied to words of motion ; as,
he came a/ter, and flood behind him.
It is oppofed to before.
What lays Lord Warwick, (hall we after them ?—
!

Following another.

afierages, they became lords of many nations.

front ; in direfl oppofitlon to the face.
Thcfe four came all afront^ and mainly thruil at
me.
Shakefpeare^s Henry IV. p. i.

^»Afttr them

Faradife Ufl.
2.

be done in fome afterage.
Noc the whole land, which the ChuGtes 0iould

tyatts'i Logkk.

Afro'nt. cdv. [from a andyrew?.]

Mortimer i Hufhandry,

A'ftercrop. n.f. [from after and rr-5/.]
The fecond crop or harvell of the fame

Afortimer'i Hujbondry,

Their feats long after next the feat of God.

after,

Drydtn's FabUu

^ttreojt and labour prove unfticceftfol.

Roaming to feck tlieir prey on earth, durft fix

1.

Fresh.]

but htreafter ; but we fay, I was
made miferablc by the lols, but

tir,

In time paiL

AFT

Sidney, b. ii.

A'fterlOve. n.f. [from /T/Jtv and love.l
The fecond or later love.
Intended, or committed, was this fault i
If but tlie firft, how heinous e'er it be.
To win thy after-love, I pardon thee.
Shakrfpeare's Richard II;

A'fter MATH. n.f. [from after s.nd math,
from moiu.] The latter math the fe;

cond crop of grafs,

mown in autumn.

See Aftercrop.
A'fternoon. n.f. [from afier and noon.]
The time from the meridian to the evening.

A beauty-waining and diftreffed widow,
Ev'n in the afternoon of her beft days,
Made prize and porchafe of his wanton eye.
Sbikefpeare's Richard III.
However,

AFT

A G A

A G A

Howtvtr, keep the Ih-ely tafte you ho'.S
and lo\s him now, but fear him more 5
i
And, in your afttmocm, tliink what you told
And proaiis'd him at morning -prayer bcfwc.

Dcnm.
S-ach, all the morning, to the pleadings run ;

But, when the bus'nefs of tW- day is done.
On dice, and drink, and drabs, they fpend the afOryden^sP£rJius,Snt,\.
tertt^^n.

Anger when

'vurath.']

.

Oi God

the provocation

feems paft.
I hear him mock
The luck of Caefar, which the gods give men

For wit and judgment ever are at rtrife,
Tho" meant each other's aid, like man and wife.

T' excufc their after-ivrath.

and adorned at a king's charges.
Dryden' i Dufrefnoy,

Shaktfp. Anttmj and Clecfatra.

jfGJ. n.f. The title of a Turkilh mili-

tition ; often.
This is not to be obtained by one or two hafty

A'fterpains. n.f. [fiom^/^r and/a/».] Aga'in. adv. [agen. Sax.]
The pains after birth, by which women 1. A iecond time once more ; marking

readings:

A'fterpart. »./. [from nfter and fart."]
The latter part.
The flexibletcfs of the former part of a man's
age, not yet grown up to be headftrorg, makes it
more governable and fafc j and. In the afterparty
reafon and forefight begin a little to take place,

and mind a man of his fafety and improvement.
L'.:ir.

A'fter.proof.

[from

». /.

aflcr

and

again ilowly, by little and little.
Baccn's New yf/nlantis.
Should Nature's felf invade the world again.
And o'er the centre fpread the liquid main,
Thy pow'r were fafe.
ffalUr.
Go now, deluded man, and feek again
New toils, new dangers, on the duffy plain.

Dryd. j^tield.

proof.]

Evidence

1.

pofterior

the

to

thing

Some are already retired into foreign countries
and the reft,, who polTefs lands, are determined

qaeftion.
2. Qualities

rience.
All know, that he likewlfc at firft was much
under the expeftation of his ajrcrproof-^ Tuch a
folar infl.cnce there is in the folar afpefl.

On the other hand

2.

Jfo/.cn.

the draught, which was not perceived
in the aft of drinking.

A'fterthought. a.f. [from after and
thought A

Refledions after the adl ; expedients formed too late. It is not properly to be ufed fw fecondtbcught

which another cannot part with, but to
lol's

Difcol luring all fhe view'd, in tawny drcfs'd,
Downlook'd, and with a cockow on her fill.

Of Romans, ilfing from the Trojan line.

tofs.'\

». f.

The motion of the fea after a

6. la return for

AdJijoift Frtchildu!.

Ufcs not thought upon before, may afterivard
be leafcnab.'e caufes of retaining
that, which former confi^ierations did formerly
procure to be inllitutrd.
H'^ohr.
An aniious diftruft of the divine goodn^fs,
makes a man more anti more unworthy of it j and
miTerable beforehand, for fear of being fo afur'
noard.
L^EJirange,
fpring up, and

A'fterwit. n.f. [from after and tvit.']
The c iiitrivance of expedients after the
part.

Sec

Afterthought.
L'tjtrMi,!.

H.f.

:

[from after and

Tillotjvn,

it be or not.

The church-clergy have written the beft collccf'on of trails againji popery that ever appeared in

England.
;

any thing ;

in

4.

isiuift.

With contrary motion

In order of rank or' fucceJlion ; marking diftribution.

Boils and plagues

Plainer you o'er, that one infcft another
Sbakcjfeare's Coriclaiiui,
Agalfj} the wind a mile.
The kite being a bird of prey, and therefore
frerti
air ; and many times
hot, delighteth in th»
fficth agaixji the wind, as trouts and f.ilmuns fwim
Bacoo..
againji the itream.
J.

Twice as much

;

If aught agairji myli.'i;
jiiiirfi the lavr of nature, law of nations. Miltoiu.
jlgiUnji the public fauftions of tlie peace,
ylgawji all on.tns of their ill fuccrft ;

With fat».' .jverfe, the rout in arms refort,.

To force

There are whom heav'n has bleft with ftore of
wit.

Yet want as much again to manage it

t'-

eh monarch, and ial'uh the court.
Dryden,

6. Oppofitt: to, in place.
Againjl the Tiber's mouth, but faraway.
Brjitn,
7.

To the hurt of another.

See fenfe 5.
And, wh.-i thou think'!! of her eternity.
Think not that death againji her nature is j
Thisk it a birth and when thou go'H to diej.
:

Sing like a fwan, as if tliou went'fl'to blifs.
.Sir y. Daviif

marking the fame

quantity once repeated.

Contrary to rule or law.

Thy country fought of titee, rt fought unjuftly,

:

8. Befides ; in any other time or place.
Tlicy have the Walloor.s, who are tall foldicrs
yet tb.Tt is but a, fpot of ground.
But, on the
other fide, there is not in the world again fuch a
fpring and feminaiy of brave military peopl, as
in England, Scotland, and Itelajid.
BacoH,

or tendency :

ufed of material adlion.

recom-

of them
and the cauie of that again is either
the cough and vifcous juice of the plant, '.r the
ftrength and h«ac thereof.
Bacon' i Natural Hifl.

9.

There i> r^i recalling what's gone and pa!t ; fo
that i-.fttrviit comes too late, when the mifrHcf is

A'K-f er-wrath.

After all that can be laid agai:Ji a thing, this.
ftill he true, that many things polfibly are,,
which we know not of; and tliat many more thinge
may be than are and if fo, after all our arguments againji a thing, it will be uncertain whether
v\-ill

What next? Aftion. What next a^ain ? Aflion.
Bacmi Fffiy:.
The caufe of the holding green, is the clofe .uid
compaS fubftance of their leaves, and the pedicles

perly.

done.

S-wift'i Mijcellanies.
when really it is not.
In contradiftion to any opinion.

Dryden.

Queftion was afkeJ of Demofthene-, Whit v.as
the ciiief part of an grator ? He anfwercd, Adtion.

:

is

Refolv'd, at once, to rid himfelf of pain;.
And, tho' againji his cuftom, call'd aloud. Dryden,.
Men often fay a thing is againji their confcience,

Prov. xir. 47.

adv.
[from after aifd
p<3pb. Sax.] In fucceeding time fometimes wriiten eftertuards, but lefs pro-

of ufing them

The god, uneafy till he (Icpt again,

pence.
That he hath given will he pay again,
7.

Soutb,

againji his will.

Sbakfjp. Kiig yobn.

A'fterward.

occafion

Bacon's Namral Hijicry.
mony of nature.
The preventing goodnefs of God docs even wreft
him from himfelf, and fave him, as it were^

own

The belt 1 had, a princefs wrought it me.
And I did never alk it yon again.

Confusions and tumults are only the impotent
remains of an unnatural icbellion, and are no more
than the aftirio^iiigt of a tea when the ftorm is
laid.

Hooker,

melancholy without caufe, and merry
Sbaieffeare'i Troilus and Crejidi,
againji the hair.
We might work any effeft without and againji
matter; and this not holpen by the co-operation
of angels or fpirits, but only by the unity and har

He is

3.

5. Back ; in reditu tion.
When your head did but ake,
I knit my handkerchief about your bro.vs

liorm.

.

Cfa. xvi. lit.

lief.

on his nature, and his nature again upon

[from after and

man's hand againjl

Contrary ; oppofite, in general.
That authority of men fhould prevail with men'

2.

his fortune.

In uftertimti Ihould hold the world in awe,
And Co the land and ocean give the law.
DryJen'i Virg'il.

anii. every

him.

marking a tranfition

;

Opprcfs the lab'ring woods below.

you promis'd once, a progeny divine

A'ftertossinc.

againjl every man,

4. In return, noting re-aftion, or reciprocal a£Uon ; as. His fortune worked up-

aces.

.

his

j^gain, behold the winter's weight

after and
See After-

In oppofition to any perfon.
And he will be a wild man , his hand will be

1.

to fome new confideration.
Behold yon mountain's hoarv height.
Made higher with new mounts 'f fnow

S-^fpicions, and fantaflical furmifc,

A'fter-times. n.f. [from

Deut. i. 72.

Aca'iust. prep, [aenjeon, onjconb. Sax.]

L'EJirangc's Fables.

On another part

3.

Aad jealoufy fuffusM with jaundice in her eyes,

Succeeding times.

and (hame.

Back; as, returning from fome mef-

fagCi
Bring us word again wh'rch way we fiiall go.

withal, if we had tliiim, -nd thofe things, again,

And doubts of motley hue, and dark defpair

Vrydini Fabln.

\z.

either againji or above reafon, is no part of our befo

with danger, jigain. whether it were the fhoitnefs
of his forefi^ht, or the ftrength of his will, certain
it is, thit the peipetual Lruble of his fortunes
could not have been without defeds in his nature.
Bacon.
Thofe things that we know not what to do

A taile remaining upon the tongue after

ti>ru.'\

marking fome op-

much the more, if the occafion were fharpaned

A'ftertaste. n.f. [from after zad tajld .]

£xpence, and afurtbougbt ^ and idle care.

;

pofition or contrariety.
il'^ wit increafed upon the occafion; and

Locke..

courfe.

never to hazard them ag^in, for the fake o( eftabliiVmg their fuperilition.
Sivift.

known by fubfequent expe-

mud be repeated again and again,

11. Pn oppofition j by way of refiftance.
Who art thou that anfwerelt .^ J'" ?
Rom, ix. lo.

;

in

it

with a dofe attention to the tenour of the dif-

;

the repetition of the fame thing.
Tlii poor remnant of human feed, which remained in their mountains, peopled their country

Again and again ; with frequent repci-

10.

tary officer.

are delivered of the iecundine.

(hould not be forry to fee a chorus on a theaue,

I

more than as large and as deep again as ours, built

3.

In provifiorj for ; in expeftation o£
This mode of fpeaking probab'y )tedits original from the idea of. making"
provifiont

A G A

,A.

AGE

G .E

or that, in infancy, are b; others ptefcnted to that
VamniMj,
charity of the church.
thought our fires, not with their own content.
Had, eie we Came to age, our portion Ijient.

fpottcJ w'.tli different colours, chiefly dalvy. Mack,

•provifion againft, or in oppofuion »o, a
time of misfortune, but by degrees acft fometimes
quired a neutral fenfe.
hus the cife elliptically fuppreffed, as,i
again/} he cpmes, that is, aga'uift the
Aimt when he comes.

Thentc (he them biocght into a ft«t«l) ball,
Wheiein wire many tables fair d'fprcd.
And iraiiy J'lght with drapets feftival,
jigaUfi thcviaiidi JhouU be miniftred.
Kiiry S>^ftn.
Tlie I'lw charge "was given them igaii-jl the
time ili«y flituid cor.ie to fettle, tjsemlch is iYi the
Hc.kn-i
land proiTiifcd unto their fatliers.
S >nic lay, t'.fTt e«r 'gaiiyi that fcafon comci,

fVatdmai'd

brown, red, and fometimes blue.
A'cATY. aJJ. [from agate.]

We

Partaking o)

tha nature of agate.
An a^cfy flint- was above tw3 inches

DiytUn.

in diameter i the whole coveied over with a friable cretaH^!xdwardceous cfuft.

la a man, the age of fourteen years is the tige
y.ars is rhe full .in:
; and twenty -one
In a woman, at feven years of agi, the lord her
father may diftr.iin his ten mts for aid to marry herj
at the age of nine years, flic is dowabie ; at twelve
years, (he is able finally to ratify and confirm her
former confent given to raaa-imony ; at fourteen,
(he is enabled to receive her land into her own
hands, and (hall be out of ward at the death of her
anceftor : at fixteen, (he ihall be out of ward,
though, at the death of her anceftor, flie was within
the age of fourteen years; a; twenty-one, file is
At the
able to allei-.ate her lands and tenements.

of difcrcti.-.n

To Aoa'ze. I'.^a. [from «and gaze, to fet
a gaxitig

;

as, amaze, amuje, and others.]

To ftrikc with amazerhent
with fiidden terrour.
out of ufe.

to ftupify

;

Tlte verb is

now

So as they travell'd, fo they 'gan efpy

An armed knight toward them ga'.lop taft,
T!\it fcemcd from foinc feared foe to fly,
Or.other grifly thing ih-U him agaji. Fairj ^atn.

"Wherein bur Saviour's birth is cclcbialcJ,
The bird nf dawning fingeth all night ieng
^nd then they fay no ffirit walks abroad ;
The nights are wholcfomc, then no.pJanets ftrifcc,
.No fairy tales, ni' witch hath power to charm j
Su ballow'd and fo gracious U the tirr.e.
:'

Aa'A'zED.farticifial adj. [from agaze ;
which fee] Struck with amazement

-thither.

Ilundrtus he lent to

Agahft the promis'd time provides with care,
.And hadcns in the woot' the robes he waj to wean

A'cED. adj. [from age.

AGE. »./.

in/.'m^iir.

A'oALAXY. »./. [from a and yu>M, Gr.]
Dia.
Want of milk.

it

;

Fr. anciently cage, or

\_age,

';

:

In himfolf was all.hU ftatc;
More folenin than the tedious pomp that waits
On princes, when their rich retinue long
Of hurfes led, and grooms befmear'd with gold,

Uarfk the cron-d, ani fet them all aga',t,
Pbtlips.

The whole crowd ftood agafi, and ready to take
S/'taMor, N" 572.
the doftor at his word.
A'CARICK. »./ [agaricum, Lit.] A drug
of ufe in phyfic, and the dying trade.
It is divided into male and female ;
the male is ufed only in dying, the female in medicine the male grows on
oaks, the female on larches.
:

ufe

are two excrefccmes which grow upon
both of them in the nature of mu/hrooms
the one the Romans call toiitus, which gr ,weth
upon the rootb of oaks, and was one of the daintier
i»f their table ; the other is medicinal, that is called agarkk, which growcth upon the tops of oaks;
though it be affirmed by fome, that it groweth

forty

Cenefis, xlvii. 28.

and feven years.

A fucccffion or generation of men.

2.

Mi/titi's Pnradi/s Lijl.

No declining ege
Rcfccmmon.

E'er fe'lt the raptures of poetic ra ,e.

The time in which any particular man,

3.

.

frighted to alloniftiment.
Thus roving on
Jn confns'd march forli.m, th" adiont'rous bands,

'

.

Wth (hudd'ring horrour pale, and eyes egaft,
View'd iirft their lamentable lot, and found

MUiOKi Parod'tfi h-ifiNo reft.
A'cATE. n.f. \agau, Fr. «cA«w, Lat.] A

In (liape no bigger than an aiate Itone,
Stakiff. R'nit'j and yuli:t.

....

'

^itlii ape only varieties of the tlint kind ; they
lave a :_;reyi <borny ground, clouded, lineated, o,

9

DryJen.

A'cENCY. n.f. [from agent.]
1. The quality of afting ; the ftate of being in adlion ; aftion.

A

few .advances there are in the following papers,
tending to alTert the fuperintendence and agency of
Providence in the natural world.
H-'oc'divaid s Pief. to Nat. HiJIoty.
2.

The office of an .igent or faftor for another; bufinefs performed by an agent.
Some of the purchjfers themfclves may bi; conten: to live cheap in a worfe country, rather than

br at the charge of exchange and agennes.
the ob-

fervation we have m.idc of it hath not been little
he always loved our lillcf moft, nnd with what poor

in

:

.

You fee how full of cb.in,;e his itgr is!

Sw'ij't,

A'GENT. adj. [agens, l.at.] That which
afts ;

oppoled to />a/ient, or that which

judgment he hath now call her off!

is

Sl\iiefirare's King L'ur.
Boys muft nrit hiive th' ambitious care of men,
BUcommc:,
Nor men the weak anx»ftk**s of ^^i
And on this forehead, where your vcrfe has faid

This fuccef-, is oft truly afcribcd unto the f.^rce
of imagination upon the body agent ; and ilicn, by
a !ccond.iiy means, it may upon a diierle body 5
as, for exav.ple, if a man cany a ring, or fome_

The loves delighted, and the i,raccs play'd

part of a bcaft, S-i'cvlng Jliongly that it will help
him to obtain his lo\r, it may make him more
indulWous, and a;ain more confident and p.-rti >inj

j

Infulting <!;i;e will ttace his ciuel wjy,
And lca»c lad marks of hi» deilruftive fwajr.

precious itone of the loweft clafs, often
clouded with beautiful variegations.

On die forefinger of an alJemian.

Again;

See Again.
This word is now only written in this
manner, though it be in reaiity the true
orthography, for the fake of rhime.
Thus Ve.ius Thus her fon reply'd agin;
None of your fifters have we heard or Icen.

nefs.

aghtijl,

;

•

After the

return.

No longer now the golden agf appears,
When patriarch wits furtivd a thoufan* years.
.

[from, aged.]

manner of an aged perfon.
Age'n. adv. [ajen, Sa.ic.]

or race of men, lived, or ihall live j as,
the age of heroes.

Pofe,
At; a'st. adj. [This word, which is ufual'4. The fnace of a hundred years ; a feculy, by later .luthors, written aghajl, is,
lar period ; a century.
not improbably, the true word derived
oldhas been written 5 The latter part of life ; old -age ;

from aga%e, which
from a miftaken etymology.
See AfiHAST.] Struck with tcrrour

The people did not more worihip the Images of
gold and ivory, than they did the groves j and tlio
lame Quintilian faith of the aged oaks.
SuUingf.etCi Defcme of D'ifc. «i Rem. IdtU

A'cEDLY. adv.

Hence, laftiy, fprings care of poftcrities,
For things their kind wnild eve. lading make.
Hence -sit, that old men do plant young trees.
The fruit whereof another agi flial! take.
Sir y. David.
Nrxt to the Son,
Diftin'd Rcftorcr of mankind, by whom
New heav'n, and earth, (hail to the ag'rs rife.
Or down from heav'n deiccnd.

'I here

Baan.

tendency to the profcpopceia.

Shalrjftare.
His life being fcvcn ag(i.
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt fcienteen
years ; fo tlie whole age of Jacob was an hundred

tree.',

.

Old; applied to inanimate things. This
is rare, and commonly with fome

2.

golden or iron age.
One man in iiis time plays many parts,

•Uaztlcs the crowd, and fets them iW.agejie.
Paradife L'fi.

amazed ;

i/joArr.

Novelty is only in rcqueft i and it is as danger.'in
to be aged in any kind of courfc, as it is virtuou*
to be conftant in any undertaking.'
Sbakeff). Meafurefar Meajitre.
Kindnefs itfclf too weak a charm will prove.
Pn.r,
To raifc the feeble fires of dj^ei love.

Any period of time attributed to fomething as the whole, or part, of its duration
in this fenfc, we fay, the age of
man, the feveral ages of the world, the

flricken in years ; applied gene-

;

rally to animate beings.
if the com^iar'fon do ftand be^vccn man and
man, the aged, for the moll part, are bcft experienced, leaft fubie£l to raJh and unadvifed palTion*.

is

fied long duration.]
1.

'Ach'rE.ad'j. [from aand_^<j/Sf.] Staring
with eagernefs ; as, a bird gapes for
meat.

_

Old

1

deduced by Msnage from
txiaiium, of 'atas ; by ''Junius, from aa,
which, in the Teutonic dialeils, figniaag.'

It makes two fyl-"

•lablcs in poetry.]

SkahJp.HettryVl.

J)rjdcr.

alfo at the roots.

none durft ftand

Here, there, and every where, enrag'd he flew
The French exclaim'd, " Thcdevi! was in arms!"
All the whole army flood egaxtd on him.

AU which 1 grant to be reafonablj and trul>
./aid, and only dcfire they may be remcnibe ert
agairjl another day.

hell, and

hinvi

X-lamilnn.

,

age oi fjuneen, a ftripling.is enabled to choofe hit
iwn guarJian ; at the age of fourteen, a man may
Couctl,
confent to marriage.

«*terrified to ftjpiJity.

Sh^kifp. H.-wlet.
To that psrpofe, he made hade to B.ilVol, that
!all things might be ready agah-J! the prince CJnic

In law.

,

Prinr.

6.

Maturity ; ripencfs ;

years of difcre-

tion ; full llrength of life.

A folemn admilfioii of profeiytes,

a'.l

th.it cither,

being of age, dcfire that admiliitfn for themfilves.

afied upon.

than clliciwiCe.hc would be.

Baccn! N.U. Hiji.

A'gent. n.f.
1 .

An aftor

;

he that afts ; he tiiat polTcfrcs

the ficulty of ailion.
Wh.ere

\

A GG

A G G
Where there is no doubt, d''libe.at*on is not e:c-

A G G

Tlie occafion of it^not healinj hy ff,7-|r/r, -....;';•.<,,

The foljd reafon of one man with unprejudicate'*

was from the alteration the ichoi
had begun to make in the bottom of the wnind.
as the other did,

cluded as -mpertincrt unto the thing, but as necdfcfs in reg ird of the egcr.tf winch .iccth airc?.dy

what to refolve upon.'
Haofa-.
/
To wliom nor a^f»i:, fi-om the inftrumcnt,
Nor pow'r of working, from the work is known.

apprehenlions, begets as firm a belief?, rh^ aulholity or uggrfgute leltiniuuy of many hundred.!.

Bnwv's !':llgtir Errcu)!,
They had, for a long time together, producci
mahy other inept combirations, or ti^rre^.j.'c forms

'

.

Ac G\.v'ri'K^liy%'.iUiJ.\Jtomag^l:itii7ate.'\
That which Ips the power of procuring

And forc'd it not, tho' he forefaw the wiil.
Freedom was firtl Leftow'd on human race,

rowler.

Fr. ]

Dry<!tn.

A miracle

is

a work exceeding the power of any

2.

A

lubllinite ;

rank.
It

perfon employed to tranfaft the bufinefs
of another.
Ail hearts in love, ufe your own tODg'JCS

A great number of living and thinking particles

Ayl.fe's PartrgDn.
Thefc fumilh us with glorious f'prings and me_

could not poiiibly, by their mutual contact, and
pic/hng, and Rriking, compofe one greater individual animal, with one mind and uiiJerftnndin?,

to elevate thcra even to a divine pitch, and that for
dcvjtional purpolcs.
fl-'jt.'s^s Imf-r. cf:UATlneS.

The agents of your palfion will purfne.'

A'c o R A N D

To pleafe

AcGEtA-'TioN. n./. [Lat.f£/«.] Concre-

with civilities

Conned'of many a jolly' parampur
;
The which them did in model! wife amate,

Tt>

muH'] P^radift Lcjl.

Lat.] To commit the firll ad of.
violence ; to begin the quarrel.
.

Fo make any thing worfe, by the adnot eflential.

To gather up in a ball, af thread.
2. To gather together.
To Ag G L o'm e r a t e 1-. n.
1.

With mlot^cd anger, and collei51ed might,

Bcfide$, the hard agglcmeral'mg fait:,

ItfeH" B> '•:

,,'-''

,:.

'

""

Acf.R AV/i'

7i.?-!''fn'j Aulumr.

Acclu'ti N ANTS. 71./. [from a^t;ft'finaU.]'
Thofe medicines or appIicitici'S wh'ich
have the power of uniting parts together.

heavy.,

A

To AGGLUTINATE. t..». [from ad'and
gli'ien, glue, Lat.] To unite one part to
anotrier; to join together, foas not to fall
Jt is a word almoll appropri-

'

'•

^

'

it

in:

n

'",

The

:

.

- Ai^^iiltt.

It'.

...cnmflances or afci-

dents, which.

increafe

tai

:

"

difcifdanf.

of a

guilt

The

'

'

I'^y'ifl. nature's face.'

-

1

Pit Iinw, ..' n^M.i-. Hv

'"mity..iiatii

I'S/ln-rgt.

[fronj aggr,/s.]

perfon. tliat firlt commencvjs hotlility
;
the aflafllter-or invader, oppofcd to the-

r-.iTures ch^nge^l

,..:

criinc. r,r rh#*

rtnc.
•t.riomejiough '

AcGRE.ssOR. a./,

..t'J.Uie f^ce,
•-'

\

:fn!nhy^nii.,iggr(ff;,n.

imity. ,^

'

I

and h.
3.

Tiicrc is nordiliinqof a c 'mmo:! enemy, *itb3ut
an union for 4 mjutual dtfiBCc; and, th?re
inay
be iilfo, 01^ tlic6therhanJ,'afonfj.ir'acy(ifcomi» n

!

.

Th. :r;7^'

Z.

firfl aft of injury ;
commencement of
a quarrel by fome aftof i.iiquity.

'

'"
\Jr()vn aggrai.ale.']
ii^graviating, ^^" or making

The'aa oi

I.

l-'rior.

Accre ssion. n-./.[aggye^o,l.3-i-'\ Thft

""
Bjccni Henry
Vll.

the papacy.

The fpoil of ages, would impcfvious choke

To turn the w,ir, and t^ "g^ejing franc?,
How Bfitajn's fons and Britam's friends can fijfit..

'

This offence, iii

Tho glorious pair .ndvance.

.

him «^r*waW by'.thc rastiv* thereof, which was
not malice or diftontunt, but in afjiiring mind tc-

.

A'GGRE'SS. <v. n. [aggredior, aggref-

fi.i:,

dition of forae particular ciiCuinHance,

'

happen.

The whole compofed by the coacervation of many particulars ; an aggregate.

,

2.

parts

IV^odtvard* s Natural Hiftorym

Ambitious Turmis in the prtfs appears,
AaittggrfvifUKg cjimcs aogmeats th-.tr fears.
Dryd. j^^ci.l.

DUl.

To AGGLO'MERATE.' ^. «. [cg^hiairo,

riary a^gr,giiiicni of this fire

UsM by the tempter.

Agcero'se. adj. [from agger, Lat.] FuUj

all

of u, doted with .a coufiderable quantity of hc.it,
aad more efpei^i.illy in thofc where thcfe extrao;di-

3.

"

Vitlgijr ErrourSt

particulars into one whole.
The water refident ii\^i abyfs is» in

A grove hard by, fprung.ij> with this «heir change,
.His wiil who reigns ab^ve! to aggritvaie
Their penaace, Udcn with fruit, like that
Wli'ich grew in Paradife, the b.iit of Eve

Dia.

Brt/iuti^i

>

:

The colleftion, or aft of collefting many

To make heavy, flfed only in a nfietaphorical feai'e ; as, to c^^irrtt/^ an accufation, or a puniQiraent.

^rMcn't fafgdr Erriurs

Their frcret channels.

'
.

2.

TVA'GGRAVATE. V. a.laggra'uo, iTat.]

To A'ccER.\TE. t/. a. [from a^gef, Lat.]^

aggrtgate.^

died together, they will be errour itfelf.

:

.

Fairy ^veen.

r.

Miltcns Parad. Ltft,.

Colleiaion,., or ftate of being collcfted.
Their individual Imperfeflions being great, th.-y
ire moreover enlarged by their nggregatwn ; and
being erroneous in their tingle numbers, once hud-

1.

^

;

|

Lat.],

a

:

A.^d cac'h one fought his lady to aggraie.

tranfmutation of nutriment } now- where this-con.
vcTfir'U,ortf|*^ewrtfri£if is made, there isalfo requited,
in <he aliment, a fimilatil^ of matter.

.'

As with a trident, fmote.

Aggrega'tio-n. n.f. [from

And in the midft thereof, upon the fldor,

'>

uniting to another body.
To make a perfect nutiition, there is. reotiiiifd a

...-rl

to treat

Death, with his mace petrifick, cold, and dry.

Ital.]

A lovely bvy of fair ladies fatej

'

;

afunder.

;

\aggYatare,

word not now in ufe.

tion of ice.

'

To colleft together ; to accumulate; to
heap many particulars into one mafs.
The aggregated foil

.

ToAgcra'te. 'V. a.

"tcm/ile.

AccENER.'i'TiON. n. /. [from «</ and ^*reratio, Lat.]
The ftate of growing or

the whole b .dy ;, aiiy

of

livihg creature, compoundftd and conltituted of the

The perfon that aggrandii;es or makes
great another.

or producing efteils upon another thin^.
The) prcduc.d wcnderfui effecis, by the propr

>

a vital confenfion

more than a fwarm of bees, or a crowd of men and
women, can be conceived to make up one paiticular

dized ; the aft of aggrandizing.
11.
I z E R
J. [from aggrandize. ]

Vytuti't Auretig,

That which has the power of operating,

of heaps,'

and

A'CGRANDIZEMENT. n. /. \aggrandijpi.
aggrrgiiic of them all.
B.-ni/rv.
ment, Yr."] The ftate of being aggran- To A'GGREGATE. nj. a. [aggrego,
La*t']

•

To heap up.

GlanvUlt's Reef,/:! Siifnt'ifia,

it

churchmen,

orderly fauiit^n, egsnti or clicfea mtji, to" tcrnpt
them, and to treat with them, fiaon'j //.rry VII.
Remember, Sir, your fury of a wife,

It Is round in hail, and figured in its guttuious
deicenMroin the air, growing greater or lefler accarding to the accretion or plu i jus aggtUtkt ab3ut
the fundamental atoms thereof.
Brtiun s yulTor Erriart.

but ^Mi'aggngetc of miltalieii phanrafms, and,

in things not feniible, a conftant deiuiion.

diums, to raife and aggrantiixe our conceptions, to
warm our fouls, to awaken the better paflions, and

application ofagtnls to patients.

The reafon of the far greateft part of mankind,
is

the king Ihould ufe it no better than the pope

did, only to nggrandi-ci: covetous

Sbakf^art,

the Cnaur.n.

culars.

applied to perfons gene-

is

The) had n^t tlic wit to find to them, in a'ly

Who nut content to be reveng'd on yoa,
3.

It

cannot be called a jewel in his crown.

—

•

to

rally, fometimes to thiiig.s.

a deputy; a faftor; a

let ever)' CTc nejotiate for itfcif.
And cruft no agtirt,

to enlarge ;

;

t,n

complex, or colleftive rcfult of the conjunflion or acervation of many parti-

[aggraniiijer,

exalt ; to improve in power, honour, or

an effect of the
Scathes oA-iro.vr.

divine cmni^^-rcnc^,

a.

-v.

To make great

Ry

"!iole.

A'cGREGATE. n. f. [from the verb.] The

JViunan.

To AGGRANDI'ZR.

And prefcicncc onU held the I'econd place,
create:! fftrcrty confetjccntly being

of particular thi.ng^, and nonftnllcalfyftems of fhe

agglutination.
Rowl up the member with the eggluthat'i'j-

Hca%''n made us egenu fr*l to good or ill.

It','

,'-„

(,.-

.

r,..'i

..T

the Vtt.

>

.okto'f.
Dryd.n..

'"'

'

.

4*11.11 cunltficnre, a^air;:.

-';'
t'lnated to

;

-.oif it'br^ifgh'd

.:

'^

allowance cnumerpois'd,
.1

coKcfioi.

•

,

'If hi'iij lef-..

lOi

i

ir.ji,r.c.i

.lutliois,

v-holi

:ir;that we arc in danger

,,

',i

i!ggr'cij!,r!.

Pspe and Sio'tft.

Injury; hardfliip inflifted ; wrong en-dured.
Tr,

i

of fuch

Ao c R j't VAN CE.«./ [Sec Grievance.]'

M'lhm.

r:rtJCj;.-ir
r.'

the

'

.ird'>n fii.d

111

retali.ite

^'"^y

i.at.;[ Fra-1'

he (Lite l.
ftsi

I

JtiJ^ >iC;Jl.uiJu<iiiy ciiCjjTji/Jai^ei to be oWigcd

works
'

'

r.'y

AOCLUTINA T O.v. n.J.

..

to
I

'h a^rritu/.auj not furcharg'd,

the foundatic

•

Ar

^'vt,.

ti^a^ [^rom ^j-fl-wV, Ji»t.I.

To

^

AGO

A G I

A G I

«. To give forrow ; to caufe grief; to rex.
It is not improbable, that to grie've was

fmall bits, of a very fragront fcent.

originally neuter, and aggrieve the ac-

'

tive.
But w.hile therein I took my chief delight,
the gaping earth devour
1 (aw, jIu
The fprinc, the plice, and all clean out of fight
Whitli }-•! iggr'uvci my heat even to this ho'ir.
\

3.

To impofe fomc hardftiips upon

to

;

This
harafs ; to htirt in one's right.
is a kind of juridical fenfe ; and whenever it is ufed now, it feetns to bear
fome allufion to formsof law.
Sewall, archbiibop ol York, much aggr\r-.rH

It

A It'md of a fchool qutllion is Sarted !n this fable,

drying, and accounted -a llrengthenerof the nerves in general. The beft
is of a blackifh purple colour, and fo

upon reafon and inliinO ; this deliberative pro.
ceeding of the crow, was rather a logical agiia:iaii
of the matter.
i: tfiran^e' s fahUi,
Violent motion of the mind ; perturIf.

is liot,

light as to fwim upon water.

bation ; difturbance of the thoughts.

A great perturbation in nature

conveniency.] A mercantile
term, nfcd chiefly in Holland and Venice, for the ditFerence between the value
of bank notes, and the current money.
Chambers.
To AGI'ST, V. a. [from gijie, Fr. a bed
cafe

or

To

to receive at

Taller, N" 55.

5.

from gifter, i. e.
take in and feed the

refting-place, or

cittle of Ih-angers in the king's foreft,

Camkv.

'.

once the bene(it of fleep, and do the eRetts of
watching.
In this (lumbry agitation, belides her
walking, and other aflaal performances, what
have you heard her fay ?
Shakejftart'i Macbeth.
His mother could no longer bear the agitatioru
of (0 many palTions as tlirongcd u"on her.

or

ftabulia-i.']

with foin: prjfiicei of ihc pope's collectors, cock
ail patiently.

Sluincy.

jfGJO. n.f. [An Italian word, fignifying

Deliberation; contrivance; the ftate
of being confulted upon.
The projeil now in agilaian for repealing of
the teft aft, and yet leaving the narae'of an ellad-

and to gather the money. The officers
lifhment to the prefent national church, is inconthat do this, are called cgiftors, in Engfiftcnt.
Sivifi'i Mi'celhnie!.
ifalling of ^is rents, and the {(reightcning of his
ifo/tune; whilrt the m^uied man Ictept up his gain,
lifli, gueft or gift-takers.
Their funftion Agita'tor. n.f. [from agitate.] He that
»nd the meichant thiivcs and grows rich by trade.
agitates any thing ; he who manages
is terflied agiftment ; as, agiftment upon
Lockt.
affairs
in which fenfe feems to be ufed
the fea-banks.
This word agiji is alfo
Of injw'd fame, and mighty wrongs teceiv'd,
the agitators of the army.
ufed, for the taking in of other men's
Cbloc complains, and wond'rcuAy 'i a^ricu'dGrajwilU*
cattle into any man's ground, at a cer- A'rtLET. n.f. [Some derive it from afyXi!,
fo Agcrotj'p. v. a. \^aggri)pare,\t3.\.'\ To
fplendour ; but it is apparently to be
tain raxe per week.]
Blount.
bring together into one figure ; to crowd Aoi'sTMENT. n.f. [See Agist.] It is
deduced from aigulette, Fr. a tag to a
together: a teria of painting.
point, and that from aigu, fharp.]
taken by the canon lawyers in aiuither
Bodies of divers naluics, wliivh are {jggr:upftl
1
A tag of a point curved into fome refenfe than is mentioned under agift.
(or combined) together, are agreeable and pleaUnt
prefentation of an animal, generally of
They
feem to intend by it, a modus or
Drydcn.
the
fight.
to
a man.
conipofition, or mean rate, at which
Acha'st. adj. [cither the participle of
He thereupon gave for the garter a chain wortti
fome right or due may be reckoned peragaze (fee Agaze), and then to be
2col. and his gown addre(red with aglets, efteemed
haps it is corrupted from addoucijfement
written agaxed, or ago/}, or from a and
worth 15!.
Hayward.
or adjuftment.
Why,. give him gold enough, and marry him
.j^aj-r, a ghoft, which the prefent orthoAci'sToa.
[ffom
An
officer
of
puppet,
or
to
a
an
aglet
baby,
n.f.
or an old trut, and
/Jfj/?.]
graphy favours ; perhaps they were orine'er a tootli in her head.
See Agist.
the king's forefl.
ginally different words.] Struck with
Sbakejfeare" s T.inir.g of the Sbrrio.
agitahilis,
horrour, as at the fight of a fpedtre ; A'g 1 T A B L E adj. [from agitate ;
2. The pendants at the ends of the chieves
Lat.] That which May be agitated, or
It is generally
ftupified with t^rrour.
of flowers, as in tulips.
in motion ; perhaps that which may
put
appearance.
^iernal
the
applied to
A'cMiNAL. adj. [from a^/»^«, Lat.] Bebe
difputed.
See
Agitate,
and
Agiin
twaine
as
iier
heart
if
She fighing fore,
longing to a troop.
D:S.
tation.
Had riven been, and all her heart-ftrings braft.
A'g NAIL. adj. [from anje, grieved, and
With d reary drooping eyne l»ok'd up like o«e agbjjl. To A'GITATE. v. «. [agio, Lat.]
Sfuijir,
najle, a nail.] A difeafe of the nails ;
To put in motion ; to (hake to move
1
The aged eartTi a^baft.
whitlow ; an inflammation round the
a
nimbly ; as, the furface of the waters
With terxour of that bla/l.
nails.
is agitated by the wind ; the veffel was
Shall from thefurface to the centre (hake. Mdtun.
Agna'tion. n.f. [from agnatus, Lat.]
jtgbafi he wak'd, and, ftirting from his ted,
broken by agitating the Uquor.
Defcent from the feme father, in a di•Cold fweat in clammy drops his limbs o'erfprcad.
2. To be the caufe of motipn ; to aftuate ;
Drydin'i Mr.cid.
reft male line, diftinfl from cogaation,
move.
to
1 laugh to think how your unrtiaken Caco
or confanguinity, which includes defcea(bv'reljn
Where
dwells
this
arbitrary
foul,
Will lo<Sk aghafi, while unforefecn deftruftion
dants from females.
animal
Which
does
the
human
concroul,
Pours in upon him thus from every fide.
Inform each part, and agitata the wliole? Blacknore. Agni'tion. n.f. [from aguitie, XaI.^
j^difoti^s Cat^.
Acknowledgment.
A'GILE. adj. [agile, Fr. agilis, Lat.] J. To affed with perturbation ; as, the
The landed man finds himfelf ii^jr;?T/««/ by the

:

*

_

:

.

.

.

.

,

;

Nimble ; ready ; having the quality of

mind of man

being fpeedily put in motion ; active.

paflions.

With that he gave his able horfe the head.

To ftir

4.

And bending forward ({ruck his agili heels

agitated

by various

To Agni'ze. v. a. [from agtofco, Lat.]
To acknowledge ; to own ; to avow.
This word is now obfolete.

to bandy from one to another

to controvert ; ^s, to agitate
a quelHon^
Though this controverfy be revivedi an4 hotly
agitated among the moderns ; yet I doubt whether
to difcufs ;

Againftthe panting fides of his poor jade,

Vp to the rowel-head.

Sbakrfp. }!inry IV.
The immediate and agik fubfervience of tlje
^irits to the empite of the mind or foul.

Trhr.

A'oiLBNEss. n.J. [fromoj-/7«.] The quaof being agile ; nimblenefs ; readinefs for motion ; quicknefs ; adivity ;

To contrive; to revolve; to form by

villages of

Farmalitics of extraordinary ecal and piefy arc
never more (ludied and elaborate, than when poli-{

(^ntly running upon agnotr.intnons, although hardi

be not, in a great part, a nominal difpute.
Boyie on Colours.-

Putrefadtion alkoth rcll ; for the lubtle motion

which putrefaction requireth, is difturbed by any

quicknefs ; aftivity.

agitation.

A limb ovcr-llrained by lifting a weight al>ove
vigour.

2.

AGl'LLOCHUM. n.f.

Boicr,.

The ftate of being moved or agitated
as, the waters, after a ftorm, are

TT'aiti.

Aloes-wood. A
tree in tiie Eaft-Indies, brought to us in

'

;

The aftofmovingor fhaking anything.

fome

time in a violent agitation.
3.

;

Difcu&on ; controverfial examinatisn.

Catnden.

AGKVS CASTUS. n.f [Lat.] The name

Agita'tion. »./. [homagitate; agitatio,
1.

Cornwall, intermingled with provincial
Latin, being very lignificative, copiois, and pleain al'pirations.

ticians nioH agitate defperate defjgns. K'nig Charles.

Lat.]

pawer, may never recover its former agility and

Shalrffeari's OiiilU.

laborious thought.

agility.

Its

do agniau

Agnomina'tio.v. n.f. [agnominatio, Lat.]

lity

Aci'i-tTY. »./. [agilitas, Lat. fiomagilis,
agile.] Nimblenefs ; readinefs to move ;

find in hardnefs.

I

Allufion of one word to another, by rcfemblance of found.
The Bririlh continueth yet in Wales, and fome

5.

In peace to judge, to conquer in the war.
Render it ogilt, witty, valiant, fage.

1

A natural and prompt alacrity
'

it

Hale' I Origin of Matihind.

To guide its anions with in/brming care.
As (its the various courfe of human age.

;

is

of the tree commonly called the Chafe
Tree, from an imaginary virtue of preferving chaftity.

Of laurel fjme, of woodbine many more.
And wreathes of agnut cajius others bore.

Ago', adv.

Dryd,

[ajan. Sax. pall or gone ;
whence writers formerly ufed, and in
fome provinces the people ftill ufe, agone
for ago.] Pall ; as, long ago ; that is,
long

AGO

A G R

Jong time has pad fince.
Reckoning
time towards the prefent, we \ik fence ;

Latin

:

R'.'tU'-'s f-int

This both by othfn and myfelf I know.
For I have fcrv'd their rovercign long tigo ;
Oft have been caught within the winding train.
fct

down an account of a

difcourfc

I

lick games.

in ending

Agree zviib thine aJverfary quickly, whilft thcu
him ; left at any time the
adverfary deliver t.hee to the judge, and the judge
deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cart into
prifon.
Matt. v. 15.
art in the .way with

me, bccaufj therein my agony fliali end.
Sidney.

Let not thc.fe agcn'us be va.n.
2.

feller.

Any violent or exceflive pain of body

Friend,

That death were better than fuch agcny.
As grief and fury unto me did bring. Fairy Slueen.
Thee I have mifs'd, and thought it long, depriv'd
Thy prefence, ag'nj of love till now
Not felt, nor (hall be twice.
Mihon't Par. Lofl.
3. It is particularly ufed in devotions for
our Redeemer's conflict in the garden.

is

agog, or

Goes flaunting out, and, in her trim of pride.
Thinks all flic fays or does is juftifj'd.
Dryd. Jiiv. Sat. vi.
This maggot has no {ooner Jet him agc', bui
he gets him a fliip, f eights hor, builds caitlcs in
the air, and conceits both the ladies in his coffers.

L'E/lr.tnzt.

has the particles on, or far, before
the object of defire.
On which the fj'nts ar« all agog,
It

Ard all this for a bear and dog.

Hudihr. (ant, ii.
Gvffios generally ft.agi;le into thefe parts, and
heads of our fervant-maidi fo agcg fir
hulbands, that we do not cxpefl to have any bufifet the

nefs done as

it

fliouij be, whil.1 they are in the

country.

Mdifuit't SfiBatcr.

Aco'iNC,

participial adj.

[from a and

going.^

In aftion ; into aftion.
Their firft movement, and imprejed motions,
demanded the impuli'e of an almighty hand to fet
them firll agolrtg,
TatUr,
Aco'ne. adv. [ajan. Sax.] Ago; paft.

See Ago.

Strifes

For 1 did play a hmeitable pirt.
Stikeffejr:'! Ttvn Gent, ef Ver'na-

Acot;'TY. n.f.
tilles,

u^ fjniething.

their witnefs agreed not together. Mark, xiv. 56.
They that ftood by faid again to Peter, Suely
thou art one of them : for thou art a Galilean,
and thy fpeecli ogreeib thereto.
Mark, xiv. 70.
Which teftimony I the lefs fcruple to all/ge,

bec.iufe it agrees very well -with what has been af-

firmed to me.

Diil.

tender for prizes.

Diit.

AcoNi'sTES. n.f. [Uyc^nrrii; , Gr.] A prize-

to : with to or --with.

to confer benefits
;
a word not now in ufe.
She granted, and that knight fo much agra<'i.

Thou fceJeft thine own people with angels food,

:

and didft fend them from heaven bread agreeing to
every tafte.

That the him taught celeftial difcipline.

one that contends at r.»y pubfolemnity for a prize.
Milton has
fo ftyled his tragedy, bec.iufe Samfon
fighter ;

lic

with common fenfe and experience.

was called cut to divert the

Philiftines

with feats of llrength.

AcoNi'sTiCAL.a*^'. [from<7jo«//?cv.] Relating to prize-fighting.
Did.
I« A'coNizE. V. n. [from agonisx, low

Vol. I.

1

1.

[{roai a And greafe.']

to greali; ;

to pollute with

perform much gieater
greater quantities.

To Ac re'e.
1

cflefls,

iit

.Orbutbnot.

a.

To put an end to a variance.
Some troublous uproar, or contentious fray,

The waves thereof fo (low and fluj?gi(h were,

Whereto he drew in haflc it to agree.

Engrofs'd with mud, which did them foul agreafe.

Fairy Slueen, i. it.

Fairy liluetn.

fromgre,
liking or good-will; gratia smd gratus,
Lat.]

1;.

and qnicker

He faw from far, or feemed for to fee.

filth.

To AGRE'E. If. n.

have often thought, that our prefcribing affej

milk in fuch fmall quantities, is injudicious; for,
undoubtedly, with luch as it agrea with, it would

\av/.

;

Locke,

To caufe no difl:urbance in the body.
I

where there is mention of the agrarian

To daub

mjdom.

_

His principles could not be ma.le to agree with
that conftitulion and order which God had fettled
in the world ; and, therefore, muft needs clalh

lating to fields or grounds ; a word feldom ufed but in the Roman hillory,

yiAoRE'ASE. 1/. (T.

Bayle,

To fuit with; to be accommodated

10.

Ben 'Jonffm^s Fairy Prhce.

A con-

not to contradift;

;

with to ot luith.
For many bare falfe witnefs againft him, but

As you fpeak him long agent?

tion for a prize.

Boyle.

To be confiilent

9.

"[

Acra'mmatist. n. f. [a, fri'u. and
yfa.jj.u.!ic, Gr.]
An illiterate man. Did.
A'cONiSM. n.f. [iyMiiTfio,-, Gr.] Conten- Agra'rian. adj. \_agrarius, Lat.] Re-

common confent all to be ordered

by fome whom they fiijuld agree upon.
Honker.
If men, iktUed in chymical affairs, {hsW agree
to write clearly, and keep men from being ftunned
by dark or en>p;y words, they will be reduced
eitiier to write nothing, or books that may teach

At that time 1 made her weep agood,

he fuch a princely one.

and troubles would be cndlefs, except

they gave their

Fairy Sluiin.

A'coNisT. n.f. [aytjVijj Gr.]

That were in life this individual he ?
Prior.
To fettle fome point a;nong many, with
upon before a noun.

8.

•

upon

to co-operate.
;
Muft the whole man, amazing thought! return

To the cold ma.ble and contra-ted urn ?
And never Ihall thofe particles agree,

Hooker.

To grant favours to

Clarendon.
ff^attt^s Imprtjvcment of the Mind.

To concur

7.

Ago'od. adv. [a ATiA gcod.'\ In eameft
not fJAttioudy.
Not in ufe.

An animal of the Anof the bignefs of a rabbet, with
bright red hair, and a little tail without
hair. He has but two teeth in each jiw,
holds his meat in his fore -paws like a
fquirrel, and has a very remarkable cry.
When he is angry, his hair Hands on
end, and he ilrikes the- earth with his
hind-feet, and, when chafed, he flies
to a hollow tree, whence he is expelled
by fmoke.
Tre'voux.
•ToAcra'ce. "v. a, [from a ?mA grace.

not thou
Mal>. xx. 13,

didft

Milton is a noble genius, and the world agree: to
confefs it.

To propofe our defires, which cannot take fuch

him as comforters in his t:gony.

'i'he gawdy gnflip, whfn the'sfer agog.
In jewels dreft, and at each ear a bob.

no wrong;

elfe.

effciS as we fpecify, fhall, notwithftaniing, other-

wife procure ui his heavenly grace, even as this
very prayer of Chr.ft obtained angels to be fent

tlice

He exceedingly provoked or unJerwent the
envy, and reproach, and malice of men of all
qualities and conditions, who agreed in nothing

!

you may fet him

do

To be of the fame mind or opinion.

6.

Betwijt them both, they have mc done to dy.

I

agree vjilb me for a penny?

Thro' wounds and lirokes, and ftubborn handeling.

Scuib'i S.tkhiii.

To fettle a price between buyer and

5.

Rofccmmcn.

or mind.

Z. It is ufed with the verbs to be, or to fet ;

is

;

Thou who for me did'feel fuch pain,
Whofe precious blood the crofs did ftain.

excited.

As fjr the fcnfe and reafon of it, that has little
«r nothing to do here ; only let it found full and
round, and chime right to the humour, which
is at prefent agog (juft as a big, long,
rattling
natne is faid to command even adoration fiom a
Spaniard), and, no doubt, with this powerful,
fenfelefs engine, the rabble driver flialj be able t^

To fettle terms by fiipulation ; to accord : followed by ivit/j.

properly the lall
contcil between life and death.
Never was there more pity in faving any than

of fome enjoyment ; longing ; llrongly

3.

A

form of vi ords were quickly agreed on between
th'-m for 3 pertVdt combinat'.on.
C'arendr^n.
4.

The pangs of death

gcgo, in low language ; zi.ils iiivc/it a
gcgo, they live to their wilTi : from this

phrafe our word may be, perhaps, derived.]
I. In a (late of defire ; in a ftate of warm
imagination ; heated with the notion

To fettle amicably.

3.

Ditl.

agonie, ^r.'\
1

:

he

z RTjccateci, xi. 14.
We do not prove the origin of the earth from a
chaos ; fccirg that is agreed on by all that give it
ary origin.
Burnet.

A'GONY. n.f. [aya*, Gr. agon, low Lat.

j^iUiji^ni Frtiiotdir.

Ago'c. aJv. [a word of uncertain etymology
the French have the term a

as,

conditions.

Acokothe'tick. adj. [xyut s.ni z'i^r,fn,
Gr.] Propofing publick contentions for
prizes ; giving prizes; prefiding at pub-

chanced to have with one of the.n fjme time c^o.

carry all before h;m.

To grant ; to yield to ; to admit ; with
the particles to or upon.
And perfuaded them to agree to all rcafonable

S/^are.

To fmait and agonixe at evVy pore ?

Dryd,rCi Fabics,
(hill

your enemies do you. Brccme's P*iitv '^f Epic Poetf y.
2.

Fc/re's Fff-iy on Man.

Stahf^ eare.

to live without con-

;

tention ; not to differ.
The more you e:g!ee together, the Icfs hurt can

Or touch, if, tremblingly alive all o'er,

Are wreck'd three nights ami on Gadwin finds.

To be in concord

1.

feel agonies ; to be in excefTive pain.
Doft thou behold my poor diltrafled heirt,
Thus-rent with agoi:izing love and rage.
And afic me what it means ? Art tliyu not falfe ?

as, it is a ye3.x fence it happened
reckoning from the prefent, we ufe ago ; as,
it happened a year ago.
I'his is not,
perhaps, always obferved.
The great fupp?y

I

To

iyuti^u, Gr. rgonifer, Fr.]

;

A G R

V

[agreer, Fr.

2.

To make friends

to reconcile.
The mighty rivals, whofe deftrud^ive rage
Did the whole world io civil aims engage.
Ate now agreed.
Rojcommm.

H

;

VLore'eable.

A G R
^cke'iaBLC. dJj.
1.

'A

[agreaile,¥t.']

This piucity of blood is agrciabU It many other
•nimilt, at ft-tgs, lizardi, and other fidies.
£rawH*t Vulgar Errouri,

Tha Hcl'isht

whlc!i

men have

in

3.

That which is agriealk fj the nature of one
is many times contrary to the narure of

nulled, and

(land J

likcwlfe the iniereft
both of private perl'ons and of public focieties.
is

Compafk ; bargain; condufionof con-

it

rtcollefl in

1

my mind the difcourfes which

between us, and call to mind a thoufand agretahli remarks, which he has made on
feave palTed

thefe occafions.

Addijr.n, SfeSatcr,

Agre'stick,
[from

cular palate, wherein there is great variety.

Locke.

The quality of pleafmg. It is ufed in
an infericur fenfe, to mark the pro-

I hope to (hew that tlieir agriculture
was nothing near fo laborious and trcublefome,
nor did it take up fo much time as ours doth.
H^ooiiivartts Natural Hi^ory,
The difpcfition of UlyiTes inclined him to war,

expreffed :

duftion of fatisfadlion, calm and lafti.Tg, but below rapture or admiration.
There will be occafion for largenefs of mind
Uki agremk/entfi of temper.
Co/tier of Frieniljhip.
It is very much an image of that author's writing, who has an agrieahhmfi that charms us,
without corrcflncfs J like a miftrefs, whofe faults
We fee, but love her with them all.
Pope.

the particle betiveen.
This re'.a'ion is likewife fecn in the agrteahlttuft icnireta

m^n and the other parts of the unidviu'j Cofmchgia Sacra.

verfe.

Agre'eably. a^'v. [from agreeable.]
1.

Confiftently with ; in a manner fuitable
to.

They may look into the affairs of Judea and
JcrufaletD, agreeai/y to that which is in the law of
tlic Loirf.

i.

I

EJJ, xviii. II.

Pleafingly.
1

rules

that fo many excellent
could be produced fo advanugeoufly and

did never imagine,

•igrtcatlj.

Agrb'ed.

iivift.

participial adj.

A'cuE-TREE. n.f. [from ague and trie.]
A name fometimes given to faffafras.
Dia.
ToAovi'sE. "v. a. [from a znd guife. See
Guise.] Todrefs; to adorn; to deck
a word now not in ufe.
:

As her fantaftic wit did moft delight.
Sometimes her head (he fondly would aguift
With gaudy garlands, or frelh flowers dighc
About her neck, or rings of rulhes plight.
f-iiVy Slueen.

A'guish. adj.

[flora ague.]

Having the

qualities of an ague.
So calm, and io lerenc, but now.
What means this change on Myra's brow ?

Her aguijh love now glows and bums.

Then chills and (hakes, and the cold fit returns.
Granville.

name of a plant. The leaves are rough,
hairy, pennated, and grow alternately
on the branches ; the flower-cup conof one \ezf, which is divided into
five fegments : the flowers have five or
fix leaves, and are formed into a long
fpike, which expand in form of a rofe ;
the fruit is oblong, dry, and prickly,
like the burdock ; in each of which are
contained two kernels.
Miller.
To AoRi'sE. f. rt. [ajpipan. Sax.] To
look terrible.
Out of ufe.
Spenfer.

quality of refembling an ague.
-Ah. InterjcQicn.
I.

Te .A.ORi'sE.

To terrify.

-v.' a.

ylhl fmful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a feed of evil-doers, children that are corrupters, they have forfaken the Lord. Ijaiah, i. 4.
z.

With our great (hips, we durft not approach the
Sir W. RaUlgb's EJJays.
Say what you fecic, and whither were you bound ?
Were you, by ftrefs of weather, cad aground f

DryJm'sJEndd.
likewife

being hindered
fairs ;

a'^,

figaratirely
in

ufcd,

for

the progrefs of af-

the negotiators were aground

at that objeftion.

.'\'GUE, n.f. [aigu,Ft, acute.]

P/olmxxxy. 2^.

.'

eoail, we having been all of us aground.

is

them not fay, we have fwal-

In youth alone, unhappy mortals live;
But, ab
the mighty blifs is fugitive :
Difcqiour'd (ickncfs, anxious labour come,
And age and death's inexorable doom.
Dryd.Vlrg. Geerg. iii,.
^^met the blooming pride of May,
And tl'^t oi' beauty are but one :
At morn botlvflouriih bright and gay.
Both t\dc at evening, pale, and gone.
Prion

Spenfer.

Stranded ; hindered by the ground from

It

let

Sometimes, and moft frequently, companion and complaint.

3.

pafling farther.

2.

Sometimes contempt and exultation.
Let them not fay in their heart*. Ah I fo we
would have it :
lowed him up.

Acro'und. ad<v. [from a and^ro»»</.]
1.

A word noting fometimes diflike and
cenfure.

fifts

own
minds, they were fuificiently furnifhed to make
known by words all their ideas.
I.ccke.
Aore'eingness. n./. [from agru.] Con-

uuntiua.\

.

Shakffearci King l^ar.

A'guishness. ». f. [from aguijh.] The

\Jtoxa agree.]

tt.
[agremea/, Fr. in
J.
agreemeattus, which Coke
would willingly derive from aggrtgatio

not peace at my bidding ; tliere I found 'em,
there 1 fmclt 'em out.
They told me 1 was every
thing : 'tis a lie ; I am not ague proof

A'grimon'y. n.f. [a^rimoiiia, Lat.] The

to fignify thofe internal operations of their

law Latiri

Proof againft agues ; able to refift the
produce agues, without
being afl^efted.
when the rain came to wet me once, and the
wi«J to make me chatter; when the thunder would
caufes which

Broome's Notes c/t tbe Odyff^y.

When they had got known and agreid names,

Ar;RE'EMENT.

Sbaktfp. CtrioLnm.

Sbakeff. Rich. ir.

more lucrative, but more fecure,
method of life, by agriculture and hulbandry.

Settled by confent.

fidence ; fuitablencft.

!

f.

A'gue PROOF. <j<^'. [from ague and proof.

rather than the

Refemblance; likenefs; fometimes with

3.

ti.

This ague Jit of fear is overblown.

Di£i.

He ftrictly advifeth not to begin to fow before
the fftting of the (lars; which, notwithftanding,
without injury to agriculturey cannot be obferved
in England.
Brotvn^s Vulgar Errours.
That there was tillage bellowed upon the antediluvian ground, Mofes does indeed intimate in
general ; what fort of tillage that was, is not

Confiftency with; fuitablenefs to: with
the particle to.

a

:

[from agiu and yS/.]
Tlie paroxyfm of the ague.

n. f.

turage.

N^ 541.

Plealant tafles depend not on the things themfelves, but their agrtiablnefi to this or that parti-

3.

A'gi/e fit.

[from agricola,
Lat.] Culture of the ground.
DiB.
A'griculture. n.f. [agricultiira, Lat.]
The art of cultivating the ground; tillage ; hufbandry, as dillinft from paf-

cold

cJiill ;

All hurt behind, backs red, and facei pale.

or Acre'stical. adj.
Lat.] Having relation

to the country ; rude ; ruftick.

(hivering ;

With flight and agued tear

agrejlis,

Agricola'tjon.

Agre'eableness. n.f. \^(rom agreeabU.'\
».

an ague ;

word in little ufe.

I

ttcke on EJucatim.

And while the face of outward things we find
Pleafant and fair, agricatU and fweet,
Thefc things tranfport.
SlrJ.Dav'm.

not
pafs

2 K'mgs, xviii. 31.
Frog had given his word, that he would meet
the company, to talk of this agreement.
jirbuthnot's Hiftory af John Bull.

jigreiahlc tereunto, perl?sps it might not beamifs,
to make children, asibon as they are capable of it,

in this fenfe both of perfons and things.

That (lill inclines to one extreme. Dtnbam'tSofiby.

A'cviu. adj. [from ague.] Struck with

Make an agreerrent with me by a prefcnt, and

adverb agreeably.

Pleafing ; that is fuitable to the inclisation, faculties, or temper.
It is ufed

(hall
(hall

come out to me, and then eat ye every man of
his own vine, and every one of his fig-tree.

ufed by a. familiar corruption for the

«ften to tell a ftory.

Vet neither tempers nor correfls -he others

Jfaiab, xxviii. iS.

TilUtfin.

3.

hell

overflowing fcourge

through, then ye (hall be trodden down by it.

2. In the following paflage the adjedive
is

your agreement with

when the

hough

As if there were an ague in his nature.

And your covenant with death (hall be difan-

VEJlr.wge.
fo

'I

He feels the heats of youth, and colds of aget-

troverfy ; llipulation.

As Uic praflice of all piety and viitue is agrecciie to our reafon,

Our caftle's ftrength
Will laugh a fiege to fcom. Hctp let them lie.
Till famine and tbe ague eat them up.
Shakefif

*

wave.
Bacon.
Expanfion and duration have this farther agritmti.i, that though they are both confidered by
us as having parts, jet their parts are not feparahi.
ore from another.
Locke.

thing,

another.

/

tering of light, as the moon-beams playing upon a

fame, fubmiffiw, and fubjcflion of otlier n)cii'»
minds, fecmeth to he a thing, in itlelf, witliout
contemplation c( confcqiience, agmAh- and grateful to the natuve ot" man. Baan's Natura/ Ui/lory
What you do, is not at all ogneahlt either
wkb fo good a chriftian, or fo rcalbnabic and (c

Tewfk.

Ecctuy. xiii. 18.

Refemblance of one thing to another.
The djviliiin and quavering which pleafc fo
much in mufick, have ah agravmii with the glit-

popuhirlty,

treat a pcifun.

what peace between the rich and

the dog ^ and
the poor ?

1,

termitting fever, with cold fits fuceeeded by hot. The cold fit is, in popular
language, more particularly called the
ague, and the hot the fever.

Concord.
What agreamtt is there between the hyeni and

1.

Suitable to ; confiftent with j conformable to. It has the particle to, or ivith.

AHA

G U

4.

When it is followed by tiat, it exprcflTes vehement dcfire.

In gooJncfs, as in greatnefs, they excel

;

Ab I that we lov'd ourfelvcs but half fo well.
Drydcn's JuvtruL

A word intimating triumph and comenipt.

Aha'! Aha'! intcrjeilion.

An in-

They

AID

A I M

AIR

They opened their mouth wide aga!nflf mty
>nd faid, aba I aha ! our eye hath fcen it.
Pfalm XXXV. II.

Ai'der. h./. [from aid.] He that brings

Tc which all men do aim, rich to he madu,
Such grace now to be happy is bcfoie thee laid.

aid or help ; a h-lper ; an ally.

1,

Alone he entered

He had met
Already, erS my befl fpeed could prevent.
The eiV/^s innocent lady, his willi'd prey.

VEfirargfi Tahiti.

Aloft ; on high.

with tags ;

But have I falPn or no ?—

HhahJ^, Khr Lfar,

plant.

To help ; to fupport ; to fuc-

1

And the angel of Cod calleJ to Kagar out of
heaven, and faid unto her. What ailclh thee, Hagar
fear not : for God bach heard the voice of
the lad where he is.
Gtn, xxi. 17.
2.

It is

Mauabet!, viii. 26.

Rofcimmtn,

a helper ; auxiliary.
Thou haft fajd, it is not good that man fhould
us make unto Elm an aid, like unto

himfelf.

Tidiit, viii. 6.

Great aidi came in tq him, partly upon mi/fives,
and partly voluacaries from many parts.
Bui.n't Henry Vn.

In law.
particularly ufed, in

matter of pleading, for a petition made in cuurt,
for the calling in of help frcm another, that hath
an interrft in the caufe in ijueflion ; and is I.kcwife both to give (trength to tne party that pray,
in aid of hiiti, an<i' alio to avoid a prejudice ai.cruing towards his own right, except it be prevented
as, when a ter.ant for term of lite, c.iurtefy, £*?. being impleaded touchinf; his cftate, lit
may pray in aid of him in the reverlion ; that is,
entreat the court, that he may be called in bv
writ, to all-ge what he thinks good for the maintenance both of his right and his own.
O/ivrll.

Ai'dance. n.f. [from aid.] Help; fupport : a word liiile ufed.
Oft have I Icca a timely parted ghoft,

Of aOy femblancc, meagre, pale, and b|.)»d!tf3,
;

defcendcd to the lab'ring heart,
the wnflift that it holds with death,

S
ii.

tent ;
.

:.-.
•

\>t

;n'5 diftrcfi.

Helping;
~

'

To feel pain

to be incommoded.
;
remarkable, that this word is
never ufed but with forae indefinite
It

Ai'lmekt. n.f. [fn>m«/A]

Lwk^i EJfay en St. Paul': BfifU:.

pans.

Conjefture'; giiefs.

5.

It is impofiible, by aim, to tell it ; and, for
expeilcnce and knowledge thereof, I do not think
that £hcie was ever any of the particulars thereof.

Sptn/er &n Ireland.

There is 3 hiftory In all men's lives.
Figuring the nature of the times' dcceas'd
Tie which obferv'd, a man ir.ay prophefy
With i near aim, of the main chance of things.
As yet net come to life, which in their feeds
And "v^eak. be^innlngv lie intre-ifurcd.

Pain ; dif-

eafe.

Sh^kiff. BeniylV.
Little aUmehtt oft attend the fair.

Not decent for a huftand's eye or. ear.

AIR. if./,
Granville.

1 am never ill, but 1 thing of your aiftnei::i,
and repine that they mutually hinder our being'

together.

The element encompaffing the tenaqueous gfobe.

I.,

;

If I were to Icll wjiat I ntcan

by the word air,
I may fay, it is that fine matter which, we breathe
in and* bieathcout contiimaliy ; or it:is that thin
fluid body. In v\hich l!ic birds fly, a little abovathe earth; or it is tliatinvilible matter, which
flils all places near the earth, or which ir:i mediately encompaflis the globe of earth and Water.

Sii-fi's Lefters.
,

A'lLiNG. participial adj. [ffom- To ail.]
Sickly; full of complaints.
To AIM. f. n. [It is derived Ey Skiltner
from efmnr, to point at ; a word which,
I have not found.]
1. To endeavour to llrike with a milTive
weapon ; to diie£l towards ; with the
particle at.
Aimji thou at princes, all araae'd they faid,
The lall of games ?
Piipt r Od^ly.
2.

[a'ir, Fr. ai'r, Lat.]

j

H'attrs Lcgick.

2,

The Sate of the itr } or the air coniGdieredwithregard to health.
'flicrt!, be many gopd and healthful »(«, that
.

do appear by habitation and other proofs, that
4il'iief not in fmeil from other ain.

To point the view, or dTfcft the fteps'
Bacm! Ka!ural Hijlory, N° 904.
towards any thing ; to tend toward-. ; 3. Air in motion ; a frtiall gentle wind.
Ficrh guiles, and gentle airs,
to endeavour to reach or obtain
with
Whifri!i'd it 10 the woods, and from their wiilgs
to formerly, now only with at.
:

aidai:'

,

Si.

t'.W, by a frequent pcrufal o'f it,
you are forced to fee there arc diftin^ independi nt

has but one aim,

is

or the word nQlhiag ; as, t^hat
ails bim ? IVhat does he ail? He ails
fifnething ; he «»/,r mthing. Something ails
him ; nothing ails him. Thus we never
fay, a fever ails hini, or he ails a fever,
or ufe definite terms with this verb.
Ail. n.f. [from the verb.] A difcarc.
Or heal, £> Narfcs, thy obfcener aH.
ftpe.

Sbattlfrert's Hrrtry VI.

Fr.]
helpful : no! in ufe.
,.,. "^n
ibliOi'd virtues of r'-,'

;

term,

^.t rrtUs the fame foraidance 'gainft the cnemv.

Ai'dant. adj. [aidant,

But fee how oft ambitious aitn arecrolV,
And chiefs contend till all the prize is loth Pripc,
the thing after
4. The objedl of a defign
which any one endeavours.
The fafcft way' is to fuppofe, that tM; epiftle

Drydcrr's Tyrannkk Love.

:

R -

:

And rid my thoughts at once of woman-kind.

4.

a

If he oppos'd
and, with ati»bitioiis aim,
AgainU the throne and monarchy of God
Rals'd impious war.
/Wj/r. Par. LcJ{, h. i. /. 41,

I, in her death, fliall Come diverliun find.

3.

purpofe ;

a

fcheme ; an intention ; a defigii.
He [rafted to have equali'd the Aluft Hi^h,

!

:

jlid !• alfo

In a figurative' fenfe,

3.

man that he laughs riiithout rea-

Command the cmprefs hither to be brought,

fVatti^t Improvtment cf tbt Mind.

A fubfidy.

That arrows fled not fwifter toward their aim,

Love fmiled, and thus faid. Want joined to
is unhappy ; but if he nought do defire,
what can HeraclitusfliV ?
Sidney.
What aiJs me, that I cannot lofe thy tlioujht

Your patrimonial ftorcs in peace poifefs j
Undoubted all your filial claim confefs
Your private right HiouU impious power invade,
The peers of Ithaca woutd arm in aid. Pift's Od.
2. The perfon that gives help or fupport

panting

Thaiv did <)iir ioldiers, aiming at their fafety.
Fly from the Acid.
S/j,:hefji. Henry IV.
f, ii,

defire

The memory of ufeful thiiigs may receive con£derable aid, if they are thrown into verfc.

his

direftei,

Jcnf

Aid. n.f. [from To aid.]
Help ; fupport.
1

throutth

The point to which the thiog thrown it

2.

afed in a (enJe Itffs determinate,

ails the

We learn that found as well as fenfe perfuadcs.

bowels

Dryden, JEk. \\\. I 691.

fid's.

for to afflB in any manner ; as, Jcrriethiiig aiis ttit that I canhot ft jiill; tubal

By the loud trumpet, which our courage aidiy

3.

Which picic'd his

.'

rituals, weapons, ir.oney, or fiiips.

let

Afcanius, young and eager of his game.
Soon bent his bow, uncertain of his aim ;
But the dire fiend the fatal arrow guide.S|

fome.]
To pain ; to trouble ; to give patn.

Into the lake he leapt, hh lord to a'u!.
And of him catching hold, him Itrongly Ifaid

From drowning.
Fairy ^uetr,
Ncnhfr fliail they give any thing unto them
that make war upon them, or aid them with

Aim. n.f. [from the verb.}
1
The direftion of a milTile weapon.

Was hemm'd with golden fringes.
Talry S"cer.
To AIL. -u. a. [ejlan. Sax. to be trouble-

\aider, Fr. from adjutare,

Dryden.

fpear.

Like twinkling ftars, and all the &irt about

cour.

be alone ;

Who fliakes his empty reins, and ahm his airy

With golden ajjutoi that glifter'd bright,

jiHOUjfl. n.f. The name of a poifonous

Lat.]

And proud Ideus, Prlam*s charioteer,

It all above befprinkled was tliroughout

!

Look up aheigbf, the ftir!ll-gorg'd iafk {o far

T/. a.

before its difmiffion from the band.

of fringes.

—From the dread I'ummit of this chalky bourne

7» AID.

A

[aigulet,

To guefs.X

3.

To Aim. 'V. a. To direfl the miffle weapon ; more particularly taken fjr the
aft of pointing the weapon by the eye,

MilnniCUmus.
point
Fr.]
points of gold at the end

A'jcuLET. n.f.

ma-.k

ial>

Vryoens JEneid.
Religion tends to the t?Xt and pleafure, the
pe.lce and tranquillity of our minds, whlfh ail
the wifdonrt of the world did always aim ati as the
ulrftoft felicity of this life.
Tiiyj'.n.

ShaUfp. Corlolanus.

Coriolj, like a planet.

the

,

AVith ihunlefs deftiny : aldld': came off,
Aod, with a fudden rc-enforcemcnt, ftruck

mightily the fault of parents, guardians,
and governours, tiut lb many men mifThey fuffer them at firil to run ahead,
carry.
and, when perverfe inclinations arc advanced into
habits, there is no dealing with them.

they are not

unto t; ey arc referred.
Hnilier.
Swoln with applaufe, and aiming ftill at more.
He now provokes the fea-gods from the (hore.

The mortal gate o' th' city, which he painted

is

know-

health, and virtue, a;.d

neverthelefg

ivtereat wc /litn^ but have their furclicp end where*

unlup-

feparable particle.] Hclplefs ;
ported ; undefended.

tutors,

Cannot be fecn or hlard.

ledge,

Ai'dless. adj. [from aid and /e/s, an in-

Headlong ; precipitanlly :^ ufed of animals, and figuratively of men.

'.Ahe'icht. adv. [from a and hcigbt.'\

fire for itfclf, as

Bacon^s Ilcmy VII,

DrydiTs't j^nehl.

It

Another kind there is, which although wt de-

rents and aidits of the late icbels.

Farther onward than another : a fea
term.
And now the mighty Centaur fe«ms to lead.
And now the fpeedy Doiphin gets akiad.

t.

along ..s he \tect, were punilbed the adhe-

.'^11

Ahs'ad. aJv. [from a and i6fW.]

Liar.

he, here the world Is blilV j lo hen; tliff-end

Hung rofer flung odours from the fpicy fhrub
Uilporting

!

II

MUim't Par^ife Lojf, i, viii, /. 51 ;.

hM

A

A I R
But Cafe Kpofe, without an a'r of breath,
Dwell! here, and a dumb ^uict next to death.

A I R

R

I

Thfrt is fotnething wonderfully divine !n the

Let Tcmal «iVi through trnnbling ofiers pUy,

And Alhioa's diffi nfouod the rural lay.

Pope.
And breathe an air divine on ev'ry face.
An affefted or laboured manner or
gellure ; as, a lofty air, a gay air.

14.

Popt'i Pap-rah.

4. Scent ; vapour.
Stinl:s wh;ch the noftrilt ftraight abhor are not
the mull pcrnicluus, but fuch airi as have fu;iic
£miiituue with maii*» body ; and fo infinuatc
Bacon.
ihemicives, and betray the fpirlts.

5. filaft ; peiljlential vapour.
All the ftur'd vengeances of heaven fall
On her ingtateful top ftrike her young bones,
You talcing atn, wlthlameners Sbak. KJitgLtar,
!

The pulmonary artery and vein pafs along th«
furfaces of thefe airbladders, in an infinite numArluibmi on Aliments,
ber of ramifications.

Yet fliould the Graces all thy figures place.

Dryiien.

Any cuticle or veficle filled with air.

1.

Addijan on Italy.

airs of this picture.

The bladder in fifhes, by the contrac*

2.

tion and dilatation of which, they vary
the properties of their weight to that of

Whom Ancus follows with a fawning <ii/ j
But vain within, and preuiily popular.
Drydtn's ^neid, vi.
There are of thefe fort of beauties, wliicb
la(f but for a

moment ; as, the different <ii;i of

an aficmbly, upon the fight of an unexfecled and
uncommon objci>, fome particularity of a violent
palTion, fome graceful a(aion, a fmile, a glance of
an eye, a dilaainful look, a look of gravity, and a

their bulk, and rife or fall.

Though the airbt'aiidtr in fiihes fcemt necelTary
for fwimminj, yet fome are fo formed as to fwi-n

fiuilt in

as ?yght as air.
momentary grace of mortal men.
Which we more hunt for than tlie grace of God
Vi'ho builds his hope in air of your far looks,
Lives like a drunken Tailor on a maft,
Ready with cv'ry nod to tuinblc down.

!

thoufand other fuch like things.
Drydtn's Dnfrrfnoy.
Their whole lives were employed in intiigues ot
Bate, and they naturally give th'emfelves airs of
kings and princes, of which the minifters of other
nations ate only the rcprcfentatlves.

Mdijuns Remarks en Italy.

To curl their waving hairs,

"

7.

air unconfined.

The garden was inci os'd within the fquare,
Where ycung Emilia took the morning air,

diftVrent <iir« ; he conceives himfelf a being of a
S-wift.
fuperlour nature.

The open weather

;

Diytlcns Fahls.

t.

Vent ; utterance ; emiffion into the air.
1 would have alk*d yf>u, if I du; ft for Ihame,
If ftill you I iv'd ? you gave it air before me.
Bur ah why were we not both of a fcx ?
For then we might have lov'd without a crime.
!

Dryiien.

9. Publication ; expofure to the publick

view and knowledge.
I am forry to find it has taken air, that 1 have
fomc hand in thefe papers.
Ptfe's Litttn.
This is
10. Intelligence ; information.

not now in ufe.
which the princes and
f^ates abroad received from their an)bairaJors and
iJ.;rt/>"j //.nry VI!.
agents here.
It

It.

grew from the

MuAck,

airt

Vk'hether

light

or ferious ;

15.

yiirs denote the
[In horfemanlhip.]
artificial or pradlil'ed motions of a ma

16.

Chambers.
naged horfe.
To Air. f. a. [from the noun/u'r.]
1. To expofe to the air; to open to the

Fleas breed principally of ftraw or mats, wh;rc
there bath been a little moillure, or the chamber
and b=d-ftraw kept cinfe, and n.t aired.

Bacons Natural hijlory, N" 696.

We have had, in our time, experience twice or
thrice,

Nay, ftjy a little

Were you but" riding forth to air ycuifelf.
Such parting were too petty.

Shakfjp. Cymhclinc.
I afcendeJ the higheft hills of Bagdat, in order

to pafs thcreflof thcday in meditation and prayer.
As I was here airing viyfdf on the tops of the

mountains, I fell into a profound contemplation
j^ddif^n, Sje^at^r.
on the vanity of human life,

The repeated air
3.

Paradife Rtgained.

Hopeful and cheerful, in thy bl->od {hall reign

To wcijh thy

fpiriti

The balm of life.

down ; and lall confume
Mi/ton's Paradijr Lcjl.

But, having the life before us, brfides the experience of all they knew, it is no wonder to hit
fome airs and features, which they haie mined.
Drydcr. on DramalUk Pmuy,

and

with the reciprocal pronoun.

Of fad Eleflra's poet had ihe powV

A melancholy damp of cold and dry.

upon the

To gratify, by enjoying the open air,

2.

12. Poetry ; a fong.

Millin's ParaJife Left.

the' judges, that fat

fuch cafos, the jail were aired, before they were
Bacon's Natural Hijiory, N" 9 1 4.
brought forth.
As the ants were airing their proviiions oik
winter, up comes a hungry grafsh^pper to them,
L'EJirarge's Fables.
and begs a charity.
Or wicker-bailiets weave, or air the corn.
Drydens yirrH.

—When

For the air of youth

when both

numbers of thjfe that attended the
bulinefs, or were prefcnt, (ickened upon it, and
Therefore, it wde good wifdom, that, in
died.

jail,

the foul is funk with Cares,
Exalts her in enliv'ning airj.'
Pefe't St.Cgecilia.

His malice.

2.

Lightnefs ; gaiety ; levity.

The French have indeed taken worthy pains to
make clafiick learning fpeak their language; if

muH be imputed to a

datenefi of the Romans, or the folemniry of th©

Hooktr, b. v. § i,g.

requircth.

Popis St. Cacilia.

Her graceful innocence, her ev'ry air,

A'iriness. n. f. [from a/ry.]
1. Opennefs ; expofure to the air.

nothing elfe but air the robes, which their place

While folemn «ir» improve the facrcd fire;

Of geflure, orlcall a<3ian, over-aw'd

A

certain talkativencfs

Borne on the fwelling note?, our fouls afpire.

13. The mien, or manner, of the perfon ;
the look.

A'i R HOLE. n. /, [from air and iJe/f.]
hole to admit the air.

they have not fucceeded,

Glanville's Sccpjts Scitntijtca.

To fare th' Atheniao walla from ruin bare.

/

pofes to the air.

The others make it a matter of fmall commendation in itfelf, if they, who wear it, di

The fame airs, wh'ch fome entertain with ni;d

!

ufed.
This is tlie very painting of your fear.
This is the (i/>-</r<jw» dagger, which, you faid.
Led yoj to Duncan.
Shakifp.' Mailietb*
A'i R E R /;.
[from To air. ] He that cx-

air.

liclightful traniports, to others are importune.

And angels lean from beav'n to hear

Pope's Dunciad, h. iii.

Air-drawn, adj. [from o.'r and dra':Ln.'\
Drawn or painted in air a word not

.

Pcpt's Ded. to Rape of the Loci.

Doibiim'i Scply.

Mdifan, S/rflj/or, N" 406.

Appearance.

cret, it foon found its way into the world.

CaU in fome mufick ; I have hejrd, fofi airs
Can charm our fenfes, and expd our cares.

Since we have fuch a trcafury of words fi
proper for the airs of mufick, I wonder that pcrfcns Ihould give fo Utile attention.

The airbudt callle, and the golden dream.
The maid's rotnantick wilh, the chymill'i flame.
And poet's vifion of eternal fame.

As it was communicated with the <fir q{ a fe-

found ; air modulated.
This muCck crept by me upon the waters.
Allaying both their fury and my palTion,
Sbiktjftart' i Tanfeji.
With its fweet air.

inild.]

the air, without any folid foun-

:

Poft.
Aflift their bli.flies, and infplrc their airs.
He afluTics and affefts an entire fet of very

Sbakffpeare's Rii hard 111.

air and

dation.
Hence the fool's paradife, the ftatefman'sfcheme.

!

Any thing light or uncertain ; that is

6.

Citdwcrtb,

withf^ut it.

A'iRBuiLT. at^. [from

To air liquors
fire :

4.

;

to warm

them by the

a term u'cd in converfation.

To breed in ncfts. In this fenfe, it is
derived from aerie, a ncft. It is now out
of ufe.
You may adj their bufy, dangerous, difcour-

and

it

airinefs

reprcfented

in

their tongue, which will never agree with the fe-

Greeks.

f.-/»'.ii.

A'i RING. »./. [from (j/r-.] A fliort journey or ramble to enjoy the free air.
This lit le fleet fervcs only to fetch them wine
and corn, and to giie their ladies an airing in the

Addikn,

fummer feafon.

A'lRLESs. adj. [from a/r.] Wanting
communication with the free air.
Nor ftony tower, nor walls of b-aten brafs.
Nor airfefs dungeon, nor Urong links of iron.
Can be retentive to the (Irength of fpirit.
Shakefpcare's yulius Cafar.

A'iRLlNC.

n. /.

[from air,

iat gayety.'\

A young, light, ihoughtlefs, gay perfon.

Some more there be, flight airftngsi will be wo»
With dogs, and horfes, and perhaps a whore.
Sen yonfrn*

A

n./. [from air and fumj>. ]
machine by whofe means the air is exhauited out of proper vefiels. The piin-

A'i R p u M P

.

cipleon which it is built, is the elafticity of the air as that on which the waterpump is founded, is on the gravity of
the air.
The invention of this curious
inllrument is afcribed to Otto de Guerick, conful of Migdebourg, in 1654.
But his machine laboured under feveral
;

defefls ; the force nectflary to work it
was very great, and the progrefs very

yea and fometimes defpitetui ftcaling, one
from an 'thcr, of the eggs and young ones; who,

flow; it was to be kept under water,
and allowed of no change of fubjefts for

were allowed to air naturally anJ q ui t'j
there would be ftoie fufhcient, to kill not only the
pirtiidges, but even all the gu^d houfcwives

Mr. Boyle, with the afexperiments.
iiftance of Dr. Hi-oke, removed feveral inconveniencies ; though, ftill, the
working w.is laborious, by reafon of the
prefi'ure of the atmofphere at every exfuition. This labour has been fiace re-

teous,

if they

chickens in a country.
Carnv's Survey of Corwwalf.

A'i RBLADDER. n. f.
der.\

[from air and blad-

moved

moved by Mr. Hawkfbce

who, by
;
adding a fecond barrel and pifton, to
rile as the other fell, and fall as it rofe,
made the preflure of the atmofphere on
the delcending one, of as much fervice
as it was of diflervice in the afcending
Vream made a farther improveone.
ment, by reducing the alternate motion
of the hand and winch to a circular
one.
Chafitters.
The air that, in rxhaurtcd rrcc!v;rs of airfuxj!,

a exhaled trom minerals, and fl :fli, and fruits,
and litjuois, is as true and genuine as to elafticit\
and dcniity, or ra^e-'aftitin, as that we refpire in
and yet this Udlitious air is I'o far fr:m being lit t

The abbey !s by no means fo magnificent as on*
would rxped from its endowments. The church
is one huge nef, with a double
it ; and, at
a':fii to
each end, is a large quite.

or Eyght. a. /. [fuppofed,
Skinner, to be corrupted from ijlct.^

To Ake.

1).

therefore

>i.

more grammatically written

which is commonly ufed of uneafinefs in
the external parts ; but this is no accu-

A'.aik I when once our grace we have forgot.
Nothing goes right ; we would, ap.d we would not.

Shahefpfort.

N.ty, what 's incred"ble, alack!
I hardly hear a woman's clack.

Ala'ck A DAY.

Boyli.

High in air.
Wnole rivers hee forfalce the fields below,

\Anci, wond'ring at their height, through a>y channels fl .W.
Mdij'M.
4. Open to the free air.

May enter.

without folidity.
bold ambition of fo a'lry and light a quality,
Shaiiff. Hatr.Ut.

nature ;

vain ;

trifling.

ken

by fome outward to-

fprightlinefs ; gayety ; livelinefs

;

all fides, yielded unto
with no Iffs a/acriiy of mind, than cities, unable
to hold outany longer, are wont to (hew when they
take cond tioos, fuch as it likcth him to offer
them, which hath them in the narrow ftraits of

[from <T and i/».]
Related to; allied by blood: ufed of
adj.

Hi/ohr,

advantage.

Give me a bowl of wine ;

perfons.

I h.ive

do not envy thee, Pamela ; only T wi/h, that
being thy liRcr in nature, I were not fo far oCf air

Nor cheer of mind, that I was wont to have.

in fortune.

2.

confidi-nce

cheerful willingnefs.
Thelc orders Wire, on

Staiifp, Ccrhlartis.

1

may the dog the wa:id'ri->g troops conftrain

Oi airy ghoHs, and vex the guilty train. Dryd^n.
6. Wanting reality ; having no fteady

fulnefs, exprefltd

Add!fiii.

Aki'n.

olacr^onjly expired, in

Ala'crity. »./ [alacritas, Lat.] Cheer-

And each, by turns, his aiirg heart aHails.

1.

that it is but a fliadow's Aiacow.

Epaminondas

that he left behind him a perpetual memory of the
viftories he had achieved f r his country.
Co-utnmtr.t of tie Tongue,

Here fliame difTuades him, thcie his rear prevails,

Joy'd to tai'ge abroad in frrfli attire

Thro' the wide C'<mpafs of the try coaft. Sfmftr.
thin ; unfubftaotial ;
5. Light as air ;

like

A word

noting forrow and melancholy.
ad'v.
[from alacrious,
fuppofed to be formed from alacris ; but
oi alacrious I have found no example.]
Cheerfully ; without dejeftion.

hocke.

It is frequently applied, in an improper fenfe, to the heart ; as, the heart
Skakeake! ; to imply grief or fear.
fpeare has uled it, ilill more licentioufly,
of the foul.
My foul a\n
To know, when two authorities are up.
Neither fupreme, how fo'jn confufi^^n

Sivifi'

[This,

Al a'criously.

His limbs muft tie, with daily toils oppreft,
Ere long-wilh'd night brings neceflary reft. Frior.
2.

interjsiiion.

the former, is for alas the day.'\

think no body would ever let wine touch his lips.

There are fiOies that have wings, that are no

foandatioa in truth or

Shakefp.,,Meafure for Meajurt,

At thunder now no more 1 ftart,
Than at the rumbling of a cart

Slaktf^eare.

!

Wcicthe pleafure of drinking accompaneti, thvery moment, with that fr k ftomach and ak'iig
hcaJ, which, in Lmc men, are fuie to f Uow, 1

tliinner and

Alas; an ex-

the corruption of fl/aj.]

Of pain.

Tlie liiil i. th; tranfniiflion, or eirifTun.of the

ftrangers to the a'uj region.

rt-.ipe

preffion of forrow.

To fue, and be deny'd, fuch common grace.

rrV^ar, Lat.]

Relating to the air; belonging to the

in the

ir,

internal pirts ; diilinguilhed from fmart,

Let our finger ake, and it endues
Our other hi-althful membeis with a fenfe

air.

into two pieces, and fixed

To feel a lafting pain, generally of the

rate account.

air zxii Jhaft.']

more a\ry parts of bod.cs ; as, in
odours ar.d infe^ions ; and this is, oi all the ref),
the moft corporeal.
Boc'>n

it

Ala'ck. interjea. [This word feems only
1.

fubterraneous places.
By tiie finking of an ai^jhajt-t the air ha'h 1'-

I

cut

of a cnls, in a hole of the wall; fo that theiiglit
palling through it, makes it look, to thofe^ in tha
church, like a huge tranfparent ctofs of artibcr.
Addifon on I'aly.

Di^.
[from a-x^, Gr. and

My wounds ake at yru

Still

A

ditional pipe to water-works.

berty to circulite, and carry ouc the fteams both o(
the miners b'cath and the damps, which w^uld
otherwifc ftagnate there.
Hay

3.

.

cannot forbear mentioning pai t of an atabufitr
column, found in-the ruins of Livias portico. It
the
is of the colour of fire, and may be leen over
high altar of St. Matia in Canipitello; for they have
1

by

AJUTAGE, n.f. [njutage, Fr.] An ad-

A palTage for the air into mines and

A'lRV. adj. [from a/r ;
1. Compoled of air.

"Vet I'll not (hed her blood.

Nor fear that whiter Ikin of hers than fnow.
ShaLefpt
And fmooth as monumental alahaficr.
A'l A B A s T E R adj. Made of alabailer.

fmall idand in a river.

be breathed in, that it kills animals in a moment,
even fooner than the abfence of air, or a vacuum
itfelf.
BtntUy.

2.

Jlddlfon,

Ait,

;

A'iRSHAPT. tt.f. [from

ALA

ALA

A I S

not that alacrity of fpirit.
Sbakefpeare,

He, gind that now his fea Ihould find a Ibore,

Sidney,

Witji frefli alacrity, and force renew'd.

Allied to by nature ; partaking of the
fame properties ufed of things.
The cankered paDion of envy is nothing ak'm to

Springs upward.

:

Milton' i Paradift Lofl,

Never did men morejoyfulh obey.

Or fooner underftord the fign to fly
With fuch ahirriiy ihey bore away.
:

Nor think with wind

the fiirj^envy of the afs.

Of airy threats to aw.-, whom yet with deeds
ThOK cnn'll not.

Mifuri ParjJi/t Liji.
Kor (to avoid fuch meannefs) foaring high,
With empty found, and tirj notions, fly.
1

I/EJirargis I'aiiht.

Some limbs ag-^n in bulk or itature

have friund a complaint concerning the Tea. city

of money, which nccaiijnei many a\ry pr-ipofitions
for the reme 'y of it.
Ttmplt 1 Mijcellamrs.

As if, to praile thcin, all the dates ilood by.

Unlike, and not akin by natuie.
In corccft aS, like modern iiiends,
Prior.
Becaufe one fcrvcs the other's ends.
He feparates it from qucAionswltlr which it may
have been compiicated, and diflingu.Oies it from
queilions which m-iy be akin to it.
H''atrs's Irfproi-emfrf of tbe Afird.

7. Fluttering ; loofe ; as if to catch the
air ; full 01 levity.
The painters draw their nymphs in thin and
sirj h.ibic9; but tlie weight of gold and of embroideries is reieneJ fjr queens and goddeffes. Drydtn,
By this name of ladies, he mea.ns all younj
pe fon^, flendcr, finely {haped, airy^ and delit ate
fuch as aie rymplis n^ NaVids.
/Jry./m.
8. Gay; fprightly; full of mirth; viva-

Al, Attle, Adi.e, do all feem to be

cious; lively; Ipiritcd ; light of heart.
He tr jt .1 merry and airy at Ih-rc wh?n he tees
a fad lempeil on the (ea, or dances when Cod

by the Normans from the Saxon ealb.
Gibjcn s Camden,

:

thuhders from heaven, regards
fpeaks to a I thi- world.

not

when

G

^d

Taylor.

Ai»i. E. n.f. [Thus the word ii written by
Addifot), but perhaps improperly ; iince
it feems dcducil'le only Irom, either a/7?,

a wing, or aliir, a path, and !<; therefore to be written aile.^
The walks in
a church, or wings of a ^uire.

corruptions of the Saxon My^i, naile,
as alio, Ailing and Aultng, arc

famous ;

corruptions of iEpehnj. noble, jflendid,

Drydcn.

ALAMI'RE. n. f.

foft

AcIt

(hopkeepers for a kind
of thin filken manufacture.
Ala'nd. ad'v. [from a for at, and land."]
At land; landed; on the-dry ground.
is uffd likewife by

I'e only, with the prince his c -ufin, were caft
ff from the place whither their dufires
Sidnry,
would have guided ihent.
Three more fierce Eurus, in his anqiy mood,
Dafli'd on the thallows of the m' ving fand,
And, in iriid ocean, left them moor'd aland.
Drydin^

aland, far

(

n.f. [from the French a I'arme,
A kind .ALA'RM.
to arms
crier a I'arme,
call to

marble, ealicr to cut, and

;

Icfs

durable, than the other kinds ; fome is
white, which is moll common ; fome of
the colour of horn, and tranfpa-ent ;
fome yellow, like honey, marked with
veins.
The ancients ulcd it to make

boxes for perfumes.

[a la mode, Fr.]

cordino; to the fafhion : a low word.

Al, Aid, being initials, are derived
from the Saxon Kalb, ancient ; and fo,
oftentimes, the i:iitial all, being melted

of

loweft note but

one in Guido Aretine's fcalc of niufick.

Alamo'de. adv.

fumous.

A'laeaster. n.f. [iiA«ti?arto».]

The

Savarj,

as,

to

arms.]
I.

A cry by which men are fummoned to
their arms ; as, at the

approach of an

enemy.
When the congregation is to be gathered together, you
alarm,

(hall

blow, but you (hall not found an

Humbert

Co4

'

TJod faimfcif is with ns for our cjptiin, anj h 3
with founding trumpets, to cry jlam
zCkron. xiii. iz.
The trumpett loud cUngour
Excites us to armSy
Wiih thrill notts of ang«r.

A L C

AL C

jVas ! both for tke deed, ani for the caufc !

Aicny'intCALLY. aJv. [from a/ciy.
In the mannerof an alchymift j
rmcal.]

friertj

(gainft you.

And mortal alarmi.

yl/as ! for pity of this bloody field
5

Can have fj foft a fenfe of human woes. Drydm.

Alas THE DAY. iiitcrjeS.

Drjilcr.

day

Taught by this llrolcc, renounce the wars alaras.

And leain to trembie at the name of arms.
f c,Wj Iliad.
A cry, or notice, of any danger ap-

Ai, unhappy

!

Al<i. lie day ! I never gave him caufe.

CamJau

A'lchtmist. n.f. [from alchymy.'] One
who purfues or profeiTes the fcience of

Utaktff.

alchymy.

Alas a day ! you have ruined my poor miil.ivs :
you have made a pap in her reputation ; and can
you blame her, if flie make it up with her hulbar.d >

<

proaching ; as, an r.!arm of fire.
Any tumult or difturbance.

3.

by means cf alchymy.
Kaymond Lully would prove it elchymically.

Piteous indeed muft be, when I, a fpirit.

'lo lolemnize this day, the glorious fun
Stays in his c urfe, and fUyithealcbymifl,
Turning, with fplcnduur of his precious eye.
The meagre cloddy earth to glittering gold.

Congrtvi.

Alas the while. interjeS,

Crowds of rivals, for thy mother's chirms,
Tliy r»Uc« fill with iafuiti and aJarmi.

•
Siake/f. Ki'!g Jstr.
Every alebymijt knows, that gold will endure
» vehement fire fir a long time without a^y
change ; and after it has been divided by corrofive

Ah! un-

happy time
AH as :he Ihcep, fuch was the flicpherd's lode
I

Faft's Oihj[<y.

;

For pale and wan he was (a!as tbt ivhile 1}
May fecm he lov'd, or eile fame care he conk.

To Ala'r m. c. a. [from aJurm, the noun.]
J. To call to arms,
J. To dillurb
as, with the approach of

liquors into inviftble parts, yet

Ala'te. aJv. [from a and /«»/*.] Lately;

an enemy.
The waip the liivc alarms
With louder hums, and with uiiequ^l arms.

no long time ago.

A'LCHYMY.

A

Alb. n.f.

[album, Lat.]
furpHce ; a
white linen veftment worn by priefts.
3. To furprife with the apprehenfion of Albe.
lad-v. [a coalition of the words
any danger.
Albe'it. J all be it fo. Skinner.
AlWhen rage mifguides me, or when fear alarms,
though ; notwithllaiiding ; though it

Upon his ftern a brawny Centaur ilood,

Who heav'd a rock, and threat'ning ftill to throw,
|

With lilted hinds, «/j7rmV the feas below. Drydcti.
Ala'rmbell. a.y. [from alarm and ^^//.]
The bell that is rung at the approach of

an enemy.
Th' alarmhrll rings from our Alhambra walls,
And, from the ftreets, found drums and atabillcs.
DrydetJ.

Ala rmikg. particip, aefj. [from, alarm.
"l

Terrifying ; awakening ; furprifing ;
as, an alarming melTage ; an alarming
pain.

Ala'rmpost. n.f. [from fl/«rOT and /5/?.]
The poll or place appointed to each body
of men to appear at, when an alarm
thall

happen.

App'roach, aihc his drowfy den Was next.
Sptnfir.
I'his very thing is caufe I'ufficient, why duties
belonging to each kind of virtue, alleit the law of
«afon teach them, Ihould, notwithftandirg, be
prefcribcd even by human law.
Hooker.

Now are our brows bound with vi^orious wreaths,
Our bruifed arms hung up for monuments,
Our ftern a/arums chang'd to merry meetings.
Sl'ake/pcari.

That Almatro might better bear,
She fcts a drum at cither car j
Are but th' aUnims which th^y bear.

Withered murder
(Ahrum'ii by his fentinel the wr'lf,

Whofe howl's his watch} thus with his ftealthy pace
Moves like a ghoft.
Sbntefpeare.
Ala's, intcrjea. \helau Vr.eylaes, Dutch.]
J. A word expreffing lamentation, when
we ufe it of ourfelves.
.'

our haps be but

hard hapi.

Sidney.

jilas) h iw little from the grave we claim !

"Thou but preferv'ft a form, and a name. Fife.
2. A word of pity, when ufed of other perI

White alchymy is made of pan-braft one pound,
and arfenicum three ounces ; or alclypy is made
of copper and auripigmentum.

Albug i'neous. atij. [albugo, Lat.] Refembling the white of an egg.
£ggs will freeze in the albuginou! part thereof.
Brvwn^s Vulgar Errours.
I opened it by incifion, giving vent firft to an
albugineouSt then to white concofted matter*, upon
which the tumour funk.
ff^feman^s Surgery.

A

difeafe in the
eye, by which the cornea contrafts a
whitenefs.
The fame with leucoma.

Baccn's Phyjiial Rtmaiiilm

They bid cry.
With trumpets regal found, the great refult;
Tow'rds the four winds, four fpeedy cherubimt
Put to their mbuths the founding alchymy,

By herald's voice explain'd.

A'LCOHOL.

''ytLt ! poor Ptothelis, thou haft entertain'd

A fox to be the (hepherd of thy lambs.

Alca'id.

Staitff.

A w6rd of forrow and concern, when
ufed- of things.

[from

n. f.

al,

Shuns me, and, with a grim civility.
Bows, and declines mv wsiks.
2. In Spain, the judge of a
inltituted by the Saracens.

ALCANNA,
ufed

in

n. f.

dying

;

Ivf ail tlK evil abominations of tke houfe of Il'racl.

£w/l;V.

city,

leaves

Br.yle,
tremely Icfl'ened.
Sal V ilatile oleofum will coagulate the feruni on
account ot the alcjbtl, or rectified fpirit which it
Arbutbmrt*
contairs".

Alcoholika'tion. n.f. [from alcohoThe att of alcoholizing or reclia/.]
tifying fpirits

firft

making a

Brtiuns ^u.'gjr Errcnrs.

;

or of reducing bodies

to an impalpable powder.
-r»

A'lcoholize. v. a. [from alcohol.']

1

To make an alcohol ; that is, to rec-

yellow, infufed in water, and a red in
acid liquors.

The root oi alcanna, though green, will give a red

^incy.

If the fame fa't (hall be reduced into alcohol,
as the chjmifta fpcak, or an impalpable powtler,
the particles a. id intercepted fpaces will be ex-

Du Came.

An Egyptian plant
the

tify fpirits till

they are wholly dcphlegv

mated.
2.

To comminute powder till it is wholly
without rough ne(s.

Alch v'mical. ar^'. [from alcbymy-l Re- A'lcOran.
lating

to

alchymy ; produced by

al-

[al and ioran, Arab.]
ti. /.
The' book oi the Mahometan precept*

and crcdenda.

chymy.
The rofe-n:ible, then current for

Thus faith the Lord God, Smite with thine
h*nii,.and P«mp with thy foot, and fay, Alas

Drydtr.

/.

der,

^incy.
Arab, at.d

npnp, the head.]
1. In Barbary, the governour of a callle.
Th* alcaid

Milton's Paradife Lrjt,

An

Arabick term
high rciflified
dephlegmated fpirit of wine, or for any
thing reduced into an impalpable pown.

ufed by chymifts for a

A'lburn colour, n.f. See Auburn.
A'lcahest. n.f. An Arabick word, to

ilaiii.

fons.

3.

and kitchen utenfils.

ed to by Paracclfus and Helmont.

See Alarm.

O but yet, n/jt

Donnit

A kind of mixed metal ufed for fpoons,

2.

Scjih's Sermons.

frier.

To Ala'rum. 'v. a. [corrupted from 7c

But yet, alatl

Sta.keff. yulius Cxjar.

Compared to this.
All honour's mimick, all wealth akhyny.

exprefs an univerfal diflblve:it, pretend-

And loud or gentle, harlh or fwect,

alarm.l

An* that which would appear offence in u>>
His countenance, like richtft alchymy.
Will change to virtue and to worthincfs.

Drop tears, as fa(^ as the Arabian trees
Their medicinal gum.
Shaltffcart.

Ala'rum. «./ [corrupted, as it feems,
JLBU'GO. »./. [Lat.]
ftorn alarm. See Alarm.]

Hakcr,

O he fits high in all the people's hearts;

One whofe eyes.

convenience by his fo doing.

Arab, and

thing.

Albeit unufed to the melting mood.

He, who has a probable belief that he fliall
meet with thieves in fuch a road, thinks himll'll
to have reafon enough to decline it, albeit he is fure
to fuftain fome lefs, though yet confiderable, in-

al,

deluding art, which changeth the meaning of
wjids, as alclymy doth, or would do, the fuBftance of metals ; maketh of any thing what it
lideth, and bringeth, in the end, all truth to no.

Ne wou'd he fuffer fleep once thitherward

His fon, Cupavo, brufti'd the briny Aood j
•

[of

chymiltry, which propofes for its objecl
the tranfmutation of metals, and other
important operations.
There' is nothing more dangerous than thit

(hould be.

Tickill.

To difturb in general.

4-

»./.

The more fublime and occult pan of

1.

'\

When pain diiiretTes, or when- pleafure charms.

may prefently be

prcipitated, fo as to appear in its ov.n form.
Grevj.

Hferfir.

;

(ix

(hilling-

and eight pence, the alchymifts do afBrm as ar.
unwritten verity, wis made by pr'.je."1ion r mul
tiplicati rt alehymial of Rajmond Lully in the
tovcr ot Lundon.
Camden's Rentins.

It this W3uld fatisfy the confcience, we might
not only take the prefent covcnmt, but fubfcr^be
to the cojni.il of Trent; yen, and 10 the Turkilh
olctran
and-fwcar to maintain and defend cither
-J

of them.

SauTidtrJcn agairj} the Covcnat:t*

Alco'vb.

ALE
A recefs,

Alco've. »./. [ahoba. Span.]

hot water, and then fermenting the liquor.

or part of a chamber, feparated by an
ellrade, or partition, and other correfpoudenccrnaments ; in which is placed
entertain company.
Trenjoux.
The weary'd champion lulfd in fofc a/ccves.
The n^biefl boaft of thy rom^it cJc groves.
Oft. if the mufe prcfage, tliall he bs feen
By Roiam- nda fle»-ting o'er the green.
In dreams be haU'd by heroes' nii|hty Hiades,
A^ul hear old Ciiaucer warble through the glades.
Tiikcli.

Deep in a rich alcove the prince was laid,
And fiept beneath the pompous colonr^aJe.
Pofe't Odify.
[fl/m//, Lat.]
A tree having leaves reiembling thofe of the ha-

A'lder,//, /

zel ; the male flowers, or katkins, are
produced at remote diilances fiora the
fruit, on the fame tree ; the fruit is
fquamofe, and of a conical figure. The
fpecies are, i. Tiie common or roundleaved ij/rftr. 2. Tlie long-leaved «/atr.
3. The fcarlet aUfr.
Thefe trees delight in a very moift foil.
The wood is
ufed by turners, and will endure long
under ground, or in water.
M.ller.

Without the gror, a various fylvan fcene

Do you look

You mud be feeing chriftenings.

Ti-.ec /Kail

And anfw'riiig ginlhops fourer Cghs return.

Sh,xiejpeare's Henry VIII.

houj'e

The fertility of the foil in grjin, and its being
not proper for vines, put th^ Egyptians upon drinking ale, of which they were the inventors.
jirbuihrsi.

A

2.

merry-meeting

ufed

in

country

places.
And aU the neighbourhood, from old records
Of antick proverbs drawn from Whirfon lords.
And their authorities at wakes and a'cs.

publickly to fell.

Vou refemble perfectly the tva aLhoufe-heperi
who were at the fame time burgo-

in Holland,

raailers of the town,

Letter to Stuif;.

A pot- companion
The

:

a

Their altberriny cawdles, poflets, each one,
Syllibubs made at the milking pale.
But what are compofed of a pot of good ale.
B^numont.

A'le-brewer. n./. [from a/tr and ^;vw^r.]
One that profefles to brew ale.
The fummer-made mak "brews
liked by moft of our ali-hrewcrs.

ill,

and is dif

AP^ri'imer^ s llujhandty.

A'i.econner. n.f. [from

alt

and

;

a tippler; a word,

of England were well deby Hanville, in the alehoufe-colours of
that time.
Cumd^r..
old aUli..:ghts

pair.ted

A'leberry. n. f. [from alt and berry.']
A beverage made by boiling ale with Ale'mbick.
and fugar, and fops of bread
word now only ufed in converfation.

and taxed one anotiicr's biUu

alcernaiely.

now out of ufe.

Ben '^anjoti.

fpice

He

and keeper.']

Pope,

[from alethat keeps ale-

». f.

A'leknight.»./. [from ale and knight. ]

With country precedents, and uld wives tales.

We bring you now.

each alcboafe, thee each jilHioufe-

mourn,

A'lehouse-keeper.

for ale and cakes here, you rude rafcals ?

a bed of ilate, and ibmetimes feats to

I

A t E

A- LIE

con.']

A

veffel ufed in diftiln.f.
ling, confiding of a veli'el placed over .

which is contained the fubbe diftilled, and a concavecjofely fitted on, into which the fumes
arife by the heat ; this cover has a beak
or fpout, into which the vapours rile,
and by which they pafs into a ferpentine pipe, which is kept cool by making
many convolutions in a tub of water;
here the vapours are condenfed, and
wjiat entered the pipe in. fumes, comes
a

fire,

in

ftance

to

out in drops.
Though water may be rarefied into invifible
of
valours, yet it is not changed into air, hut only
publick houfes.
Four of them are chofcattered into minute parts j which meeting togePoT^c'i Odyjfy.
fen or rechofen annually by the comther in the aUmhkk, or in the receiver, do prefeiwly return into fuch water as they conftitiHcJ
Alderli'evest. adj.fuferl. [from «/^,
mon-hall of the city ; and, whatever
before.
Beyle.
aUer, old, elder, and litve, dear, bemight be their ufe formerly, their places
loved.] Molt beloved ; which has held
are now regarded only as iinecares for -Ale'kcth. ad'v. [from a for at, and'
Ungth.] At full length ; along; llretchedthe longed poiTeflion of the heart.
decayed citizens.
The mutual conference that my mind hath had, A'LECosr.
along the ground.
from ale, and
i/.f. [perhaps
In courtly company, or at my beads,
cojius, Lat.]
ALE'RT.
adj, [alerte, Er. perhaps from
The
name
of
an
herb.
With you, mine alderliniji fovereign.
alacris, but probably from a I'art, acDia.
Makes me the bolder.
Shaitff. Humy VI. p. ii.
cording to art or rule.]
A'lderman. ». /. [from aU, old, and Ale'ctryomancy, or Ale'ctoroMANCY. n. f. [<iXjx1^t/»iir and fiiilxc,.] 1. In the military fenfe, on guard ; watchman. ]
ful ; vigilant ; ready at a call.
Divination by a cock.
Dia.
1. The fame as fenator, Conuell.
A go- A'lecar. n.
2. In the common fenfe, bri£k ; pert ; pe[from
ale
and
eager,
f.
vernour or magiftrate, originally, as
tulant ; fmart ; implying fome degree
four.]
Sour ale ; a kind of acid made
the name imports, chofen on account
of c^fuie and contempt.
by ale, as vinegar by wine, which has
of the experience which his age had giI ii\*i an alert young fellow, that cocked his
loft its fpirit.
hat upon a friend of his, and accoftcd him.
ven him.
A'troER. adj. \allegre, Fr. alacrii, Lat.]
Well, Jack,, the oIJ prig is dead at laft.
Tell him, myieJf, the mayor, and pljirmen.
Gay ; chearful ; fprightly : a word not
Are come to have fome eonrrence with his trace.
Addijon, SpeHator.
Appear'd arounj, a .d groves of living green
j
Popiars and aldcri e-cr quivering play'd.
And nodding cypreft torm'd a fragrant (hade.

Shakrfpeare,

Though my own aUirmtn conferr'd my bays.
To me committing their eternal praife ;
Their full-fed heroes, their pacifi.k may'rs.
Their annual trophies, and their monthly wars.
Fo[te*l

1.

Dunciad,

In the following paflage it is, I think,
improperly ufed.
But if the t:umi>et's clangour you abhor,-

And dare not be an a/dfrmart of war.
Take to a dsop, behind a counter lie.

to their virtues and fuperiout genius, which emboldened them, in exigencies (wan:ing an n/i^rr-

manlf dif.retion) to attempt fervlce out of the
cum.non forms.
Sw/i'i MifccU^nlet.

Made of

alder.

Then aJ!tr» boau firft plow'd the ocean.
May't firm/.

.

I.

A

liquor

9

[eal«r,

Sax.]

made by

is

to

infpeft the

ir.eaiures

now ufed.

Coffee, the root and leaf betle, and leaf tobacco.
of which the Turks are great takers, do all cindcnfe the Ipirits, and make them (Irong and aleZ>r.
D^ccn's Natural Hi/lory.

A'lehoo^.

[from ale and hoopb,
head.]
Grojndivy, fo called by our
Saxon anceftors, as being their chief ingredient in ale.
An herb.
a. /.

my opinion, of
the molt excellent and moft g"ner.il ufe and vir-

Dry J. yuvi Sii:-

. _
ALE. «./

bafineis

yiUhvif,

A'ldep. MANLY. a//v. [from a/a'erman.]
Like an alderman ; belonging to an
alderman.
Thefe, and many more, fuffcred death, in envy

A'ldern. adj. [from aJdir.'[

An officer in the city of London, whofe

tue, of any plants

is,

in

we have amon^ us.

Temple.

A'i.ehouse. n. f. [from aU and hcufe.]
A houfe where ale is publickly fold ;
a tipling-houff. It is diftinguiflicd from
a tavern,, where they fell wine.
Thou tnoitijeauteous inn.

Why (hould hard-fav /ur'd grief bs lodg'd in thee,
.When triumph is become an aUhcufe gueft ?
Sbakeffeart
One would think it (hould be no eafy matter to
bring any nun of fenfc in love with an alehnnfe;
indeed of f much fenfc as feeing and fm-'-ling
am-'u'tj to i there bcin^ fuch ftron^ encounters of
•

bo- 1, as would quickly lend him packing, did not

ovf of good
nuifascu*.
the

infufing malt in

or groundlvy,

fdiowihip reconcile to thefe
StKlt.

Ale'rtnes*. n.f.

[from

The.

o/er/.]

quality of being alert ; fprightlinefs ;.
pertnefs.
That altrtnifi and unconcern

for matters

of

common life, 9 campaign or two would infallibly
have given Uim.

Add-Jm, SpeBaicr.

-

A'i.etaster. n.f. [from «/? and C/T/^^r.]:

An officer appointed in every court leet,,
and fworn

to lock to the affiztrand the
goodnefs of bread and ale, or beer,
within the precinds of that lordfhip.
Coiuell.

A'levat. n.f. [from fl/« and -yij/.]

The-

tub in which the ale is fermented.

A'lew. n.f.

Clamour; outa-y.

Not in.

•

^ufe.

Spoi/ei-.

A'lbwashed. adj. [from ale and wa/*.]
Steeped or foaked in ale not now in.
:

ufe.

What a beard of the general's cut, and a horrid
fult of the

camp, will do atn>ng foaming batties

and alctoajhed wits,

is

wonderful to hi thought

on-

Hbakeffeare..

A'lewife. n.f. [from rt/f and zi-//^.] A.

woman that keeps an alchonfe.
Eerhap«<

A L I

A L I

Newton brought

In wbomfoever thefe things are, the church
doth acknowledge tliem for her childnn ; them
only (he holdeth for aliens and (Irangers in whom
Htoiert
thefe things are not found.
If it be provM againft an alietif

A LG
Perl>»;>i he will fwaggeranj heOor, «nd threaten
to bcK »iiJ butcher an alivi'.ft, or take the goods
by force, and throw them do»™ the bad halfpence.
Swift's Drjfer's Ltiten.

A'lcxakders.
f.
The name of a plant.
A'lexander's-foot. «./.
tt.

Lat.]

[fmjrnium,

Trevoux. Chambers.
profound Ikill in
al^iha, to reduce the ditTerence of ninepence in
It would furely require no very

Svii/t.

The name A L C E B R a'i C K

A kind of verfe

l

.

Algebra ical. J

-^

.

Shaiejf. Merch. ofVeitUe,

*

Containing operations of algebra;
an algebraical computation.

as,

the moft
lyrical.
For variety, or rather where the majefty
be ft.ctthed to
they
may
61 thought requires it,
the Engl) Si heioic of five feet, and to the French

fuppofitions, to find the demonftratlon or cipher,
than every unconcerned perfon dDth to find the

That, like a wounded fnake, drags its flow length
along.
Pifis Ejfay on Criikijm.

Alexipha'rmick. adj. [from a.^l|/l and

A'hGUy.adj. [fl/^/Vw,Lat.] Cold; chill.

mfciftion.

Aloi'dity. In./, [from a/^(V.]
A'lcidness. 5 nefs ; cold.

is a/exifbarmick.

Brown's Vulgar Errmrs.

poifon ; that which refills fevers.

A'lcates. adv. [^irom all znA gate.

Skin-

Dia.
AhGi'ric. adj. [from fl^or, Lat.] That
Di3.
which produces cold.
jfLGOR. n.f. [Lat.] Extreme cold;
Dia.
chilnefs.
A'i. COR ISM.

I"'/

words,

Arabick

A'lgorithm. J which are ufed to im-

lete.

ply the fix operations of arithmetick, or
Dia.
the fcience of numbers.
ExAi.Go'sE. adj. [from algor, Lat.]

Nor had the hoafter ever rifen more.
But thit Renaldo's horfc cv'n then down fell,

A' LI AS.

And with the fall his leg opp/ef^'d i'o fy:;e,
•That, for a fpacc, there muft he algata dweil.
Fairfax,

A'LGEERA. n.f.

[an Arabic word of
uncertain etymology ; derived, by fome,
from Gchcr the philc'.bpher ; by ferae,
from gtfr, parchment ; by others, from
algehijla, a bonefetter ; by Menage, from
algiabarat , the reftitution of things broken. ]
A peculiar kind of arithmetick,

which takes the quantity fought, whether it be a number or a line, or any
other quantity, as if it were granted,
and, by means of one or more quantities given, proceeds by confequence,
quantity at firft only fuppofed to
be known, or at leaft fome power thereof, is found to be equal to fome quantity
or quantities which are known, and confcquently itfelf is known. This art was
in ufe among the Arabs, long before
it came into this part of the world ; and
they are fuppofed to have borrowed it
from the Pcrfians, and the Perfians from
the Indians.
The firft Greek author of
algebra was Diophantus, who, about the
year 800, wrote thirteen books.
In
1494, Lucas Pacciolus, or Lucas deBurgos, a cordelier, printed a treatife
of algebra, in Italian, at Venice. He
fays, that algebra came originally from

off from it.

Addi)on, Frtebolicr.

In law.

2.

An alien is one born in a (Grange country, and
man b.'>m out of the land,
never enfrancliifed.
fn it be within the limiu beyond the fcas, or of
Englifh parents out of the k'ug's obedience, fo
the parents, at the time of the birth, be of the
If one, born out
king's obedience, is not ahen.
of the king's allegiance, cume and dwell in England, his children (if he beget any here) are not
CtTr*//.
aliens, but dcnifons.

>

A

To A'n E N

.

-t;.

a. [aliener, Fr. alieno, Lat.]

To make any thing the property of an-

1.

other.
If the fona/iflt lands, and then repurchals them
in fee, the rules of defcents are to be obferved, as if he w;rc the original purchafer.
again

HitU'i I-iijiory of Common Lavf*

To eftrange

2.

;

to turn the mind or affec-

with /row.
to make averfe
The king was difquicteJ, when he found that

tion ;

:

the prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of,
Clarertlffti,
or inclination to, t'le marriage.

Dia. A'lienaule. aii/. [from To alienate.]
tremely cold ; chill.
That of which the property may be
ad'v.
A Latin wo.-d,'fignifying
transferred.
othernulje ; often ufed in the trials of
Land is alienable, and treafure is tranfitory, and
criminals, whofe danger has obliged
both muft pafs from him, by his own voluntary
them to change their names ; as, Simafl, or by the violence of others, or at lea.1 by fate.
(on, alias Sm\x.h„^lias Baker; that is,
Denris^s Letters,
othernvife Smith, elhcrtxije Baker.
-To A'lienate. v. a. [aliener, fr. ahem,
A'lible. adj. [a/;^y//V, Lat.] Nutritive;
Lat.]
nourifhing ; or that which may be nou- 1. To transfer the property of any thing
.

Dia.

rifhed.

A'LIEN. adj.

to another.

The countries of the Tu: ks were once Chriftian,
and members of the church, and wl.erc the golden
candk'fticks did ftand, though now they be utterly
Bacon,
a'ienated, and no Chritlians Lfc.

{alicnus, Lat.]

Foreign, or not of the fame family or

1.

land.

The m.ither plant admires the leaves unknown
Drydtn.
Of aVttn trees, and apples not her own.

2.

To withdraw the heart or affeflions:

F.»ird by fate, torn from the tender'em brace
Of his young guilttcfs pr^^geny, he feeks

with the particle frcm, where the firft
pofleffor is mentioned.
The manner of men's writing muft not aCtenett

In^^l-rious fhelter in an alien land.

our hearts yiow the truth.

From native f)!!

till the

the Arabs. After feveral improvements
by Victa, Oughtred, Harriot, Defcartes,

government, aa
and theirfore to be cut

idle in divifr>ns dangerous to the
ali'ns to tlie community,

Dia.
Chil-

xer.

Gate is the fame as 'via ; and ftill
ufed for way in the Scottifh dialed.] On
any terms ; every way : now obfo-

SbcUjiure,

The lawgiver condemned the perfons, who fat

fVatts's L:gici.

matical forms.

That which drives away
^o^^axor.]
poilbn ; antidotal ; that which oppofes

-AuEXITe'rICAL, or ALEXITE'RICK.a<^'.
[from aXi^i'i'.] That which drives away

Of all the court and princes oi my blo'>d.

Craum's Bills cf Mortality.
murderers.
Confining themfelves to the fynthctitk and analytick methods of geometricians and algehraiJIs,
they have too much narrowed the rules of method,
as though every thing were to be treated in mathe-

A necdlefs A'.^-itanir.tie ends the fong.

only the bone in the heart, but the horn o( a deer

And art almolt an alien to the hearts

A

fcience of algebra.
When any dead body is found in England,
no algeiraift or unciphertr can ufe more fubtl:

Dryicn.
A'-ixandrm of fix.
Then, at the lad and only couplet, fraught
With fome unmeaning thing they call a thought,

Sir fobn Dai'ies on Ireland*

Thy place in council thou halt ruJely lol^.
Which by thy younger brother is fupplyM,

n.f. [from algebra.]
perfon that underftands or praftifes the

be

Some antidotal quality it may have, fince not

The mere Iri(h were not only accounted alitns,
them.

Alcebra'ist.

for

>

but enemies, fo as it was no capital ofience to kill

teen fyllables, in alternate couplets
and, among us, of twelve.
(hould,

Shall feiae on half his goods.

jf^^^ J^.ira.]
•*

treatife.
2.

part,

He feeks the life of any citizen.
The party, 'gainft the which he doth contrive,

Relating to algebra ; zs,^a algebraical

1.

borrowed from the French, firft ufed in
« poem called Alexander. They conEft,
among the French, of twelve and thir-

Our numbers

art to

thi«

the height at which it ftill continues.

thirty (hillings.

of an herb.

Alexa'ndrine. n.f.

Sir Ifaac

Vhit.ft.

Eftranged from; not allied to; adverfe to: with the particle yrawi, and
fometimes to, but improperly.

2.

To declare my mind to
fire,

the difciples of the
by afimilitude not alien from their profefiion.
Bcylt.

The fentiment that a'ifes, is a conviction of
the deplorable ftatc of nature, to which fin reduced us j a weak, ignorant creature, alien from
Cod and goodnefs, and a prey to tlie great deRogers's Sermons.
ftrorer.

-

They encouraged pcrfons and

principles,

/rem our religion and governmeit,
ftre.ngthen their faftion.

A'liek. n.f.
I.

in

alien

order to

Swift's Mifcellanies.

[alienus, Lat.]

A foreigner; not a denifon

Hosier,

Be it never fo true «!iich we teach the world to
bdievp, yet if once their afFeitions b-gin to be
alienated, a fmall thing per fuadeth them to change
Hooker,
their opinions.
His eyes furvey'd the dark idolatries
Milton's
Paradife LcJI,
Of alienated Judah.
Any thing that is apt to difturb the world, and
to alienate the af^eCiions of mt n from one another,
fuch ai crofs and dilUHeful hum jurs, is cither txprcf^ly, or by clear confetjueiice and deduction, forTilhtfui,
bidden in the New Teftamcnt.
Her mind was quite alierated from the honeft
Caftilian, whom (he was taught to look upon as a
ylJdifn,
formal old fellow.
.

A'lienate. adj. [alienafus,I-,at.'j Withdrawn from; ftranger to: with the par-

a

man

of another country or family ; one not

iiclcffcm.
The Whigs

allied ; a ftranger.

for the death of the ijven j ready to gratify their

;

are

damnably wicked ; impatient
ambitio*

•mbition and revenge by all defpcntt methods;
wholly alitnate fnm truth, law, religion, mercy,
Siuift's Afifcel/jrics.
confciencc, or honour.

of any thing thrown or
falling ; to fall upon.
But fli/rn;3 of Itor.ei from the proud temple'>

2. It is ufed alfo

Aliena'tion. »./. [alienatio, Lat.]
I, The aft of transferring property.

height

This ordinance was lor the maintenance of their
lands in their pofterity, and for excluding all innovation or aUctunicn thereof unto ftrangers.
Sfnfrr's State nf Irclavd

Ali'xe. adv. [from a and like.'\ With
refemblance ; v/ithout difference ; in the
fame manner ; in the fame form. In
fome exprefHons it has the appearance of
an adjedive, but is always an adverb.
Tie daricnefs liijeih not from thee; but the

to give a check to fjcrilege. Her fuccefTour
of the
a law, which prevented all future alicKath'm
Attcrlury
church revenues.
palTca

Great changes and alhvat'iwt of property, have
created new and great dependencies.
Stvift en Albert and Rome.
;

as,

night Ihinech as the Jay
the darknefs and the
light are both atite to thee.
Pfalm cxxxix. I2.
With rhce converfing, I forget a!! time ;
All feafons, and their change, all pleafe atiie.
Paradifc Loft.
Riches cannot rcfcue from the grave.
Which claims alike the monarch and the flavc.
Dtydrn.
Let us unite at leaft In an equal zeal for thole
capital doftrines, which wc all equally embrace,
and are ahke concerned to maintain.
Atterhttry.
Two handmaids wait the throne ; alike in place,
But dilTring far in figure and in face.
Pojic.

the

Change of affection.
the
It is left but in dark memory, what was
ground of his defeftion, and the tlicnathn of his
BacQn.
heart from the king.

Applied to the mind, it means diforder
of the faculties.

4.

by man, though not
through outward force and impulfion, though not

Some

•

things are done

A'LIMENT. «./. [alimentuoi, Lat.] Nourilhment ; that which nourilhes ;

againil, yet without their wills; as in aiirnation ot
mind, or any like inevitable utter abfencc of wit

and judgment.

ment ; food.
New parts are added to our fubtlance

Hookir.

Ali'ferous. adj. [from alazni/ero,'La.t.^
Diil.
Having wings.
Ali'gikovs. aJj. [a//ffr, Xat.] Having
wings ; winged.
It.

In the Urged fcnfc, by alment,
1 underdand every thing which a human cjeaturt
takes in common diet; as, meat, drink; and fcafoning, as, fait, fpice, vinegar.
Arhulhmet.

AhtMt'KTAL. adj. [from aliment.] That
which has the quality of aliment ; that
which nourilhes ; that which feeds.

And Hake the uictcr foitow.

Ti Ali'ght. -j. n. [alihtan. Sax. af-lich-

lowed to the wife for her maintenance,
upon the account of any feparation from
him, provided it be not caufed by her
elopement or adultery. Ayliffe's Parcrg.
Uefore they fettled hands and hearts,
Till a'.imany or death them parts.
Hvdihra'-.

A'Liciy AKT. adj. [aliquatituj, Lat.] Parts
of a number, which, however repeated,
will never make up the number exaflly ;
as, 3 is an aliquant of 10, thrice 3 being
9, four times 3 making 12.
adj. [cliquot, Lat.]

A'liqjjot.

remainder

is an aliquot part of
being taken four times,
it will juft meafure it.
A'lieh. adj. [from ale.] Refembling ale;
having qualities of ale.

as, 3

Stirring it and beating down the yeaft, gives it
the fweet a/j/A talle.
•
Mortimer's Mf/iardiy.

Ali've. adj. [from a and live]

Mihcn's Pared. Loft.

1.

Pope.
2.

Philips

heat, and thit not only aiimentally in a
fubDantial mutation, but alfo medicamentally in
any corporeal converfion. Bn-un's Vulg. Eiroun.

Alimf/ntariness. n. /. [from alimentary.] The quality of being.alimentary,
or of affording nourilhracnt.

Di£i.

Ahme'ntary. adj. [fTOmali?nenl.]
That which belongs or relates to aliment.
'I

In the ftate of life ; not dead.
Nor well ali've, nor wholly dead they were.
But fome faint ligns of feeble life appear. Dryden
Not youthful kings in battle feie'd alive.
Not fcornful virgins who their charms furvive.

he folucion of the aliment by maftication is

nectfl'ary; withoutil, the aliment could notbedif-

pofed for the changes which it icceivcb as it palfeth
through the alimeBlary duel.

Arl'utlnat on Aliments.

That which has the quality of aliment,

In a figurative fenfe, unextinguilhed
undeftroyed ; aiElive ; in full force.
Thofe good and learned men had reafun to wl/h,
that their proceedings might be favoured, and tlie
good affeftion of fuch as Inclined toward them, kept

crful'eft

2.

:

12, becaufe,

The fubftancc of gold is invincible by the pow-

When he was admonilhed by his (ubjcft to defcend,hecame down gen'ly, and circling in the air,

Aliquot

number or quantity, fuch
as will exaflly meafure it without any

parts of any

So as to ferve for notirifhmenr.

Drydtns /Enciii.

Like a lark melodiand finging to the ground.
ous in her m';unting, and continuing her fong till
preparing
for
a
higher flight at her
(he atighti ; ftili
Drydin.
next faliy.
When fini/h'd was the figl.t.
The y\€ion from their lufty fteeds a/ifbt.
Like them dilmounted all the warlike tra n.
Dryden.
Should a fpirit of fupcriour rank, a Granger to
human nature, alifht upon tie earth, «4ia! would
Mdlfin, Hf^eflalcr.
his mtions of us be ^

that legal proportion of
the hufoand's eftate, which, by the fentence of the ecclefiaftical court, is aU

piony fignifies

Alime'ntally. adv. [from alime/ital.]

1.

Harvey on Confurrptions.
[alimonia, Lat.] Jli-

In humid cxlialations.

Exliaufteo fap recruiting.

A young Venetian,

Detibam.
^
When Dedalus, to 9y the Cretan fliore,
Hi* he ivy limbs on jointed pinions bore j
To the Cumcan ciaft at length he came.
And here aligbllng built this coftly frame.

A'LIMONY. n.f.

A'liture. «./. [alitura, Lat.] Nourifhment.
DiS.

A juft fapply of alimtatal ftreams,

fa\ry Sluan.
There is alighiti at your gate

Wh<n marching with his foot he walks till night
When with his hoife, he never will al'tght.

whereby they are incapacitated of digelll] g

the alvncnicus humours into flefli.

To fink a circling trench, and daily pour

From her high weary wa'ne.

lUrhcrt.

fpirlts,

Brtnun.
Th' indirftrious, when the fun in Leo rides,
Forget not, at the foot of ev.-ry plant.

Dutch.]

Stho^Hp, Merch. ofVtnUe.
Slacknefi breeds worms ; but the furc traveller,
Though he atijhtt fometimes, ftill goeth on.

:

ther.

To come down, and flop. The word
implies the idea of Uejcending ; as, of a
bird from the wing ; a travelW- from
his horfe or carriage ; and generally of
refting or flopping.
1 here jncicnt nlgiit arriving, did alight

which nourilhes a word very little in ufc.
The plethora tenders us lean, by fui-jji-elfing our

The fun, tliat light imparts to all, receives
From all his alimtntat rccompcnfe.
Except tliey be watered from higher regions,
thefe weeds mull lofc their alimenial fap, and wi-

Sperf-r't ^aftcrali.

VOL.I.

and, 35

are called alimcr.tt.

Upon fo fair a morrow ?
.The i'jyous time now nigheth fat,
That (hall "liggi this bitter bUil,

ten,

;

All bodies which, by the animal faculties, can
be changed into the fluids and fdidsof our boiiies,

:

I.

Alimo'nious. adj. [from alimmy.] That

Glanvilll's Sceffij Srientifica.

Dii3.

-Thomalin, why fitten we fo.
As weren overwent with woe.

Tlie tete of being nourifl'.ed by affimilation of matter received.
Wants do nouiifh; inanimate bodies do not: they
have an accretion, but no ahmcr.tat'toi:.
Bjcons 2\atural liif'iyry.

:

a.

gotten.

nutri-

wc die, we are born daily nor can we give an accouiK, how the aliment \h prepared for nutrition, or
by what mechanifm it is diftributed.

[from a, and %, to
To lay ; to allay ; to throw
lie down.]
down ; to fubdue an old word even
in the time ofSpenfer, now wholly for-

ToAi.i'g&e.

The power of affording aliment; the
quality of nouriftiing.

:

Hate was wafted during its alienation.
3.

1.

;.

D:yJcn.

The ftate of being alienated

AlIjMENTa'tion. «./. [from aliment.]

Pour down, and on our batier'd lielms al'igtt.

God put it into the heart ot one of our princes,

a.

ALK

A L I

A L I

alive.

3.

Hooker.

Cheerful ; fprightly ; full of alacrity.
She was not fo much alive the whole day, if fiie
(lept more tl]an fix

hours.

4. In a popular fenfe,

do not think that wjter lupj>lies animals, or
even plants, with nourilhment, but ferves for a
vehicle to the alimentary particles, to convey and
dilitibotc tnem to the levcral parts of the body.

Ray on ihc Creutijn.

Of armentary roots, fome are pulpy and v^ ry
nutritious ; as, turnips and carr \i.
Thefe have
a fattening quality.
AfbulLnU on Ailments.

is

man alive ; that is,
the bejl, with an cmphafis.
This fenfe
has been long in ufe, and was once adKionde ; as, the tejl

mitted into ferious writings, but is now

merely ludicrous.
And to thofe brethren faid, rife, rife by-live.
And unto battle do yourfelves addtcfi
;

For yonder comes the prowelt knight alive,
Frince Arthur, flower of grace and nobi'cfs.

or the power of nourilbing.
1

Clarijp:.

ufed only to
add an emphafis, like the French du
it

Fairy Siueev.

The earl of Northumberland, wlio was the proud<
eft man almt, could noir look upon the deftruflioii
of monarchy with any pleafure.
Clarendon.
John was quick and underflood bulincis, but no

man alive wajiuurc carelcli in looking into his acc"U"ts.

Arbuihrot.

A'l-KAHEST.

n. f.

A word ufed firft by

Paracelfus, and adopted by his follow1

ers

ALL

A L K
crs, to fignify

an univerfal diflblvent,
or liquor which has the power of refolving all things iato their

firft

oil,

prin-

ciples.

'A L K A L E 's c E N T adj. [ from aliali. ] That
which has a tendency to the properties
of an alkali.
.

3.

alkali.]

That

The whole quantity, applied to dura-

No more with fruitlefs care, and cheated flrfe,
Chace fleeting pleafure through the maze of life;

To Alka'mzate.

\.

an infinite

I .

ries are the

dients
fugar,

a;^

The

other ingrepippin-cyder, rofe-water,
bafis.

ambergreafe, mufk, cinnamon,
aloes-wood, pearls, and leaf-gold ; but
the fwcets are ufually omitted.
The
confeilit alkermes is chiefly made at Mont-

pelier.

The grain, which gives it the

denomination,

is

V/here, all befidc the rail, rang'd beggars lie.
And from each other catch the doleful cry. Gi:y.

no where found

plentifully as there.

fo

Chambers.

z.

Altogether ; wholly ; without any other
ctmfideration.
1 am of the temper of moft kings, who love to
be in debt, are all for prefent money, no matter
how they pay it afterward.
Diydcn.

3.

Only; without admiflion of any thing
elfe.

When I fhall wed,
That lord, whofe hand muft take my plight, fhall
carry

Half my Icivc with him, half my care and duty.
Sure 1 fhall never marry like my filler,
To love my father all.
StakeJip. King Lear.
This fenfe is truly Teuto4. Although.
nick, but now obfolete.
Do you not think th' accomplifhment of it
Sufficient work for one man's fimple head.
All were it as the refl but fimply writ.
Sfenfcr.

fometimes a word of emphafis
nearly the fame with _/«/?.

5. It is

better, tbi

Sci-ptre and pow'r, thy giving, I afTume

;

•^

Miltem,

They that do not keep up this indifTerency for
all but truth,

put coloured fpeflacles before their
eyes, and look through falfe glalTes.
Locke.
4. The phrafe and all is of the fame kind.

They all fell to work at the roots of the tree,
and left it fo

little

wind

lac upon the giound, ncft, eagles,

laid

it

foothold, that the

«'"' "l'-

firft blaft

of

VEjlrange.

A torch, fnufF and all, goes out in a moment,
when dipped in the vapour.
Addifon's Jiejaarks en Italy,

5.

.^// is inach

ufed in compofition ; but,
in moft inltances, it is merely arbitrary
;
as, all-commanding. Sometimes the words
compounded with it, are fixed and claffical ; as. Almighty.
When it is connefted with a participle, it feems to be

a noun ; as, all-furrounding : in other
cafes an adverb; as, all-accomplijhed, or
completely accompliftied. Of thefe ccTtpounds, a fmall part of thofe which
may be found is inlerted.
All-bearing, adj. [from n/^and bear.]
That which bears every thing ; omniparous.

Thus while he

fpoke, the fovereign plant he

drew,

Where on th' all-hearing earth unmark'd it grew.
Pcpe.

.^L L-c HE E R I N c. adj. [from a//aod cheer.'\

That which gives gayety and cheerfulnefs to ail.
Soon as the all-cleerhg fun
Should, in the firtheft eaft, beg:n to draw

A fhepherd's fwain, fay, did thee bring,
All as his ftriying flock he fed ;
And, when his hcnour hath thee read,
Crave pardon for thy liardyliead.

the

And glad her fhall refign, when in the end
Thou fhalt be all in all, and I in thee,
For ever ; and in me all whom thou lov'ft.

or ccmeta.

He thinly fpreads them through the public fquire,

Miller.

borrowed from the Arabs, denoting- a
celebrated remedy, of the confiflence of
a confeftion ; whereof the kermes ber-

That js, e<vtry thing is
fame, the Jitter.

Addi/on.
If e'er the mifer durft his farthings fpare,

from the fouthern parts of France, and

Chambers.
In medicine, a term

3.

nued blaze.

cies of buglofs, with a red root, brought

JLKE'RMZS. n.f.

•^"' Jonfcn.

.

Shaktffieart's Cariolanus.

Camdtn's Remains.
For a large confcience is all one,
And fignifies the fame with none.
tludibras.
Balm, from a filver box didill'd around,
Shall all bedew the roots, and fcent the facred
ground.
Dry den.
I do not remember he any where mentions exprefsly the title of the firlV-born, but all along
keeps himfelf under the fhelter of the indefinite
term, heir.
Locke.
Jufticc may be furniflied out of fire, as far as her
fword goes ; and courage may be all over a conti-

A'tKANET. «. /. [anchu/a, Lat.] The
name of a plant. This plant is a fpe-

or berry, produced by a pKint of the
fame denomination ; popularly alfo called luinter- cherry ': the plant bears a near
refemblance to Solanum, or Nightfliade ; whence it is frequently called
in Latin by that name, with the addition or epithet of 'vejicarium.

Shakefpeare,

The Saxons could call a comet a fixed liar, which

impregnating

aZ/'sone for that.

All th^ fitter, Lcntulus : our coming
we have bus'nefs.

Shakiffpeare.
is all one v/\th Jlella criiiita,

—Well,

Is not for falutation ;

That, all amaz'd, the prieft let fall the book.

Nnvlen.

JLKEKFNGI. „. /. A medicinal fruit

But where to-morrow?

He fworc fo loud.

Alk aliza'tion.w./. [fromalkali.] The

ufed in medicine.

Shakefpeart,

Know, Rome, that all alone Marcus did fight

quors, turns red, and, by urinous and aJialixare,

or

fhail we be news-cramm'd.—^// the
we fhall be the mote reourkable.
.

Quite ; completely.

Within Corioli gates.

Addifal.

Up with my tent, here will I lie to-night;

Spender.

Biylr.

of alkalizatlng,
bodies with alkali.

better ;

How is my love all ready forth to come.

The colour of violets in thei* fyrup, by acid li-

aft

offuccefs.

Every thing.
Then

deal of nothing,

Shaktff. Merchant ofVanee.

that which it difcovers, being difiblvcd in hot
water, is different, being of kin to that of other

turns green.

2.

All. fl</-i/. [See ALL, a^'.]

a.

tlkalizate falts.

fail

Crajha-w.

The whole extent of place;
Gratiano fpeaks

Frier,

Our all is at flake, and irretrievably loft, if we

more than any man in all Venice.

[from alkali.]
To make bodies alkaline, by changing
their nature, or by mixing alkalies with
them.
Alka'lizate. fl(?y. [from alkali.] That
which has the qualities of alkali; that
which is impregnated with alkali./
The odour ot the fixed nitre h very langi^d; but
'V.

Finding the wretched all thiy here can have.

But prefent food, a:'.d but a future grave.

And, rejoicing, fmiles to fee

ftarving very long, by diluting the fluids, and con-

keeping them from an alkaliite (late.
People have lived twenty-four days upon nothing
'
but water.
Arbuthmt.

;

On thofe pallures chearful fpring

which has the qualities of alkali.
Any watery liquor will keep an animal from
fequcntly

Stakrfpeare's Mactetb,
The youth fhall ftudy, and no m-re engage
Their flattering wiihes for unceitain age

tion of time.

Their green backs wear his livery.

[from

Shakejpeartt

Nought's had, alfi fpent.

Where our defire is got without content.

All the year doth fit and fing ;

tion.
adj.

And will fhe yet debafe her eyes on me j

On me, whofe ail not equals Edward's moiety ?

the community in the execution of luch laws, and
in the defence of the commonwealth ; and all \\\i,
only for the public good.
Luke.

Any fub-

oppofed to part, or no-

;

thing.

Political power, I take to be a right of making
laws with penalties, and of employing the force of

ftance which, when mingled with acid,
produces effervefcencc and fermenta-

A'lkaline.

.

Dmt, V. 13.

this they calledya/ iali, or a/iali.

!i

^bakejpeart*

All. n.f.
The whole
1

Six days thou fhalt labour, and do all thy work.

It is corrofive,

anciently in Englllh what it

particle of mere enforcement.
He thought them fixpcncea/Ztoo dear.
Seng tn ^balefpeart.
Tell us what occafion of import
Hatli all fo long dcta'in'd you from your wife.

Being the whole quantity ; every part.

2.

It was

now in the other Teutoiiick dialcfls, a

Being the whole number ; every one.
Brutus is an honourable man

The grirat encouragement of «//, is the affurance
of a future reward.
Tilloijtn.

'

jirbuthttot on Aliments.']

6.

Germ.

alle.

j

A'IKALI. K. / [The word alia/i coma

plied,

Dutch;

Shakeff. Jultus Cafar.
To graze the herb all leaving,
Devour'd each other.
Miltcn'i Parad. Loft.

Arhuthnst.

producing putrefaction
in animal fubflances to which it is ap-

al,

So are thi-y all, all honourable men.

All animal diet is alkaltfcat ox anti-acid.

fait ;

Wellh;

S^©-, Gr.]
1.

from an herb, called by the Egyptians
inli ; by us, glalTwort.
This herb they
burnt to alhes, boiled them in water,
and, after having evaporated the water,
there remained at the bottom a white

ALL

ALL. aJ}. [iEll, ^al, calls, all*. Sax.

,

Spcnjtr'i Pafttrali.

The fhady curtains from Aurora's bed. Shakelp.
All-commanding, adj. [from all and
command.] Having the fovereiiinty over
"
all.

He

ALL
finver/ul.]

«ioi of glory, tlie all^commtinditig image of bright
gold.
Raldgb,

That which

quitts

all

men,

or

every thing.
Wrapt in embow'r'mg /hades, Ulyfles lies,
His woes forgot! but Pallas now adJreft,

To bre^k the bands of all'4mtp^fi"g reft.

That

which fubdues

Fcpe.

n. f.

every

aJJ.

thing.
By age unbroke— but ai!-confum}ng care

Nor can they la!l beyond the time allign'd

That which eats up every thing.

By that all-fuing and all-niak'ing mind.

;

Sbakejpeart.

[from alt and
fupdeni.'\ Sufficient to every thing.
The telUmonies of God are perfect, the teftimonics of God are ali-Jtifficitnt unto that end for

All health. This is therefore
not a compound, though perhaps ufually
Salve, or/alvete,

feft and all-frfficieal.

!

Narrii.

All-wise. adj. [from a// and ivi/i.] Pof-

!

jIU bailf ye books, my true, my real friends,
Whofe convcrfation pleafet and improves

Dark colours eafily fuffer a fenlible allay, by

adj.

which they were given.
Hooker.
He can more than employ alt our powers in
their utmofV elevation ; for Jie is every way per-

reckoned among them ; a terra of falu-

j4JI hail, ye facrcd, folitary groves

which it is mingled in the fame manner, as the admixture of bafer metals
allays the qualities of the firft mafs.

This is all Jiuh day, fellows, is it not ?—
my lord.—
Why then, allfauls day is my body's doomfday.

All-sufficient,

where conftant peace attends

For fools are ftubborn in their way,
Hudibras,
As coins are hardened by th' allay.
2. Any thing which, being added, abates
the predominant qualities of that with

It is,

health.'\

tation.

Dryden.

November.

All hail. n. /. [from all and bail, for

ylil tuil, ye fields,

wear lefs. Gold is allayed with filver
and copper, two carats to a pound
Troy ; filver with copper only, of v/hich
eighteen pennyweight is mixed v/ith a
pound. Convcll thinks the allay is added, to countervail the charge of coining ; which might have been done only
by making the coin lefs.

;

fupplications are made for all fouls by
the church of Rome ; the I'econd of

which it is reckoned, and which, joined
in the hand of either of the parties, are
faid to make all-fours.

coins, to harden them, that they may

All souls da v. «.y; The day on which

All-fours, n. /. [from all and yi«r.]
A low game at cards, played by two
fo named from the four particulars by

little

3.

Rojcommon.

feft of infinite wifdom.

quality of allaying.
Phlegm and pure blood are reputed allayers of

There is an infiniti-, eternal, all-wife mind governing the affairs of the world.

All hallow. In./, [from all a.nd halAll hallows, j lo-Tv.'] All faints day;
All-h ALLOWN. ^(^^ [from all and halloiv, to make holy.]
The time about

[from aWxz;, a gut, and n^©-, fhape.]
The urinary tunick placed between the
amnion and chorion, which, by the
navel and urachus, or paflage by which
the urine is conveyed from the infant in

^li-ballvwn fummer.

farewell,

Sbakefp. Henry IV.

Allh ALLOWTi DE.

[See All/.
HALLOWN.] The term near All faints,
17.

or the firft of November.
Cut oft' the bough about M'ba/lciviiJe, in the
bare place, and fet it in the ground, and it will
grow to be a fair tree in one year.

MaeoKi Natural ffIff try.

All-heal. n./. [pattax, Lat.] A fpecies
of irenzvcre ; which fee.
Ai.t-;uDGiNC. ar/J. [from e!l ^nAJitJ^e.'j
That which has the fovereign right of
judgment.
I look with horroiir back,

"My pail polluted life,

jill-judv'ng Hcuvon,
Rrtl'e'i y'Jne S^ire.

A L L - K N ow N G. atlj [from ail and iaint;.'\
!

Omnifcient

.

;

all-wife.

we repine at a little mifplaced charity,
we, who could no way foicfce the cffcft; when
Shall

an a/Z-itfiivrng, all-wife Being, rtiowers down every
day hit benefits on the unthankful and undef-rving ^
j^tifr/jury^s .Serw-.tiu

All-making, at/j. [from all ind maif.]
That created all ; omnifiek. See AllSEEIKC.

All-powerful,

ad/,

[from

all

To ALLA'Y. v. a. [from alloyer, Fr. to
mix one metal with another in order to
coinage ; it is therefore derived by fome
from a la loi, according 10 laav ; the
quantity of metr/Is being mixed according to law ; by others, from allier,
to unite ; pe;lups from allocare, to put

and

See Alloy.
2. To join any thing to another, fo as to
abate its predominant qualities.
It is
uk'd commonly in a fenfc contrary to
its original meaning, and is, to make
fomething bad, Uf';. bad. To obtund
;

to reprcfs ; to abate.

Harvey.

which has the power of allaying or abating the force of another.
Irl could temporize with my afFeftion,

Or brew it to a weak and colder palate,
The like allas^ent would I give my grief. Shakefp,
Allega'tion, n.f. [from allege.^
1.

Affirmation ; declaration.

2.

The thing alleged or affirmed.
Hath he noti twit our fovereign lady here

With ignominious words, though darkly coucht ?
As if ]7ie had fuborned fome to fwear
Falfc allegafiom, to o'erthrow his ftate.
Siiah/ptart'i Her.ry VI.

An excufc

J.

;

a plea.

no. means to be Informed of my
and I expetl not to be excufed in any
negligcnc; on account of youth, want of leifure,
or any otilfr lie allegations.
Pope.
I

omitted

would (j//rfy rhe burning quality
(hall

i

To ALLE'GE. •v. a. [nllego, Lat.]

To afnrm to declare to maintain.
To plead as an excufe, or produce as

1.

;

2.

alter

or

Shaitfptare.
allay that

;

.an argument.
Surely the prcfent form of church-government
fuch, as n.-i l.nv of CioJ, or rcafoa ofmim,
hath hitherto been alleged of force luflicieut to
prove they do ill, who, to the utmoft of tlo-ir
power, withfland the alt'.-ration thereof.
Uooher.
If we forfake the ways of grace or gnodneft,
is

we cannot

Bring brt-u^^-.t into the open air,

Of that fell poifun.
No friendly offices

or a bridle of gall, obtunding its

Alla'yment, «. / [from rdlay.] That

another, to

authors
preserve
the original
French orrhograpliy, and write «//«/.

I

bills,

err urs ;

To mix one metal with

1.

and Avicen countermands letting blood

iicrimony and fiercenefs.

together.]

mod

Who knows my crimes, has lecn my forrnw for
thein.

the womb, receives the urine that conies
out of the bladder.
i^iiitcy.

make it fitter for coinage. In this fenle,

7 hat I deted my wretched feif, and curfe

a freenum

Prior

!

:

in cholerick bodies } becaufe he efteems the blood

JLLANTO'IS, or ALLANTO'IDES. „.f.

All faints day.
Farewell, thou latter fpring !

acrimony

Soutb.

Supreme, all-tvife, eternal, potentate !
Sole author, fole difpofer of our fate

Nenutori's Optirh*

fcattering light.

Allay being taken from bafer metals,
commonly implies fomething worfe than
that with which it is mixed.
The joy has no allay of jcaloufy, hope, and fear.

Ai.la'yer. n.f. [from allay.'] The perfon or thing which has the power or

I

the firtt of November.

The metal of a bafer kind mixed in

1.

The fame Firlt Mover certain bounds has plac'd,

All-devouring, adj. [from «// and tieSecure from flames, from envy's fiercer rage,
Dcftruftive war, and all-devour'mg age.
Pope.

Alla'y. n.f. [alloy, Fr.]

&bakt-jpeare,

How long thofc periiTiable forms fliall lad

'vcur.']

>

All-seeikg. adj. [from all and Jee."]
That beholds every thing.

Deftroji perhaps the ftrength that time would
fpare.
Pujx.

The

to reprefs.

If by your art you have
Put the wild waters in this roar, allay them.
Shakcfptare.

That high All-jcir, which I dailied with.
Hath turn'd my feigned prayer on my head,
And giv'n in caraett what J begg'd in jcft.

!

[from all and
That which confumes every

he

;

word, in this fenfe, I think not to be
derived from the French alloyer, but to
be the Bnglifh word lay, with a before
it, according to the old form.

The day on

that fees or beholds every thing
whofe view comprehends all things.

To quiet; to pacify

3.

the faints.
The firft of November
All-seer, 71. f. [from all and /Jc] He

Second of Satan fprung, aU-<cr:querlng death
What think'ft thou of our empiie now ? Miltcn,

coitfume.'l

;

which there is a general celebration of

thing.

All-consuming.

omnipotent

S-w'ift.

All saints day.

ALL-cON(y;ERiKG. oAj. [from all and
conquer.^

Almighty ;

occnRons, will foam out at its foul mnoth
upon
Sourb.
in llander and invciftive.
all

pofleifed of infinite power.
O a!l-pG^vfrfu! Being! the leaft motion of
whofe will can create or deftroy a world j pity us,
the mournful friends of thy dillrened ffirvant.

All-composing. aAj. [from «//and compofe."]

ALL

ALL

He now fets before them the high and (hining

alligc

any

colour of ignorance,

or

want ot inftrudion j wc cannot fay we have not
' learned tlwm,
or we could not.
Sprat.

He hith a clear and full view, and there is no
more to be alleged for bis better information.

rancour, tlut /Vets in foise UclUlli breaits, which,

Z^ele.

I 2

ALLs'cEABLii.

*

ALL

TSL. TL<

/I

AtLE'cEAntF. atfj. [from allr^e.] That
which may be alleged.

Upm this inrcrprft.it.on
IS ttllrftttbte

Neiiirer niuft
long, left clrher

all

Alle'cement. n. /. [from allege.'^ The
fame with allegation.
A:.leV.er. It. J', [horn allege.']

For my father's fak-.

DiO.

Sbakeffj(are,

He

Stairffeare.

the feveral counties of
them, govern
abfohicily ; the lords concurring, or rather fubmitting to whatfoever is propofeJ.
Clarendcn.
all

of mufick.]

alleviate

you

the

\

heaiers

underflood

Popr.

2.

to be undeift-^od alU'girksiUy ;

by the Puct, applied to the goidefs of ir.

to form

an alle-

gory ; to take in a fenfe not literal.

Ra.Uigt.

W5uld confine them

ims of

his laboratory,

A

fulphur, and mercury ;
and the faced myderics thereof, into the
Locke.
pliiloforh^r'«i ftcne.

row lands.

I. The ftate of connexion with

by confederacy

difcourfc,

in

which fomcthing

other h intended, than
tlie

words

literaJly

is

taken ;

contained in
as,

-wealth

;

Milton's Paradife Loji,

Alloca'tion. n.f. [alloco, Lat.]
The aft of putting one thing to ano1

ther.

another

Anne mention

the grand alliance.
z.

Behemoth biggeft born.

2.

a league. In this fenfe,

our hillories of Queen

A'LLEGORY. n./. [iAXr,705',«.l A figurative

Ihouldcr clapper,

Alli'ance. ft. f. [alliance, Fr ]

itielf,

/ [aJ and litera,

ters, as.

A paflfage in towns narrower than a

Shakr/feare.

morality by fal,
and atlegcrixe the fcriptuie

«.

Of what the critics call the alii,

Now fwccp thofe alleys they were born to ihaJe.

of Jeru-

explain

Lat.]

the fame verfe with the fame letter, there
are inllances in the oldeft and bed wri-

Burnetii Theory.

An alchymifl (hall reduce divinity to the max-

Allitera'tion.

teration, or beginning of feveral words in

one that
back friend, a
commands the palfages of alleys, creeks, and nar-

to the deftruiSion

falem.

ano-

Ours is not great; the dangling bows to crop,

ftreet.

As fome would alligor'me thefe figns, fo others

agai.nil

nent by earthi^uakes, or fevered from it by the
boilkrous a!'ifi,n of the fea.
tVoodward.

Pope.
1.

one thing

Whofc too luxuriant growth our uileyi rtop. Dryd.
The thriving plants, ignoble bror.mfticks ma,lc,

He hath very wittily a//egorix^ this tree, allowing his fuppofition of the tree itfelf to be :r..e.

n.f. [alii Jo, alU urn, Lat.] The

There have not been any iflinds of note, or c<>n.
fiderable extent, torn and ca'l oli' from the conti-

Come, my fair love, our morning's talk we lofe
Some labour ev'n the eafie.^ life would choofe :

Dicl.

rical.

Miltr^n.

.

ther.

Our walk at noon, with branches overgrown.
'-

N

aft of llriking

Yonder alleys green,

Popt.

To A'llecorize. t. a. [from allegory.]
;

'

.A L L I's 1

Bacon i Natural Hijiijry.

grafs.

LIGATURE, n.f [from alligate'.] The

link, or ligature, by which two things
are joined together.
DiH,

teth forth the firft year knorgrafs, and after fpirc-

and

Alleoo'ricalness. n. /. [from allegoThe quality of being allegorical.]

To turn into allegory

drib's Difpinl'r.ry.
A'l.

Spenfer.

Peactiim.

Sbtktffeart.

Aloft in rows large poppy-heads were ftrung.
And here a fcaly aliigjtjr hung.

Wheie alleys arc clofc gravel'ed, the eatth put-

what is thus fpoken by a Hb.-«ician w:th wifdom,
is,

In his needy (hop a toitoifeTiung,

An al'lgator ftufPd, and other Ccins
Of ill-lh.ip'd fillies.

eafed, or

is

And all within were walks and allrys wide.
With footing worn, and leading inward far.

makes Iris ih; mcffcngcr of Juno,

tB.gaicaHy taken fur the air.
is

That by which any pain

A'lley. n.f. [allee, Fr.]
I. A walk in a garden.

After an allegorical manner.

'Ihc phice

of America, between which, and tJiat of
Africa, naturalills have laid down this
difference, that one moves the upper,
and the other the lower jiw ; but this
is now known to be chimerical, the
lower jaw being equally moved by both.
See Crocodile,

alle-

fault extenuated.
This lofs of one fifth of their income will fit
heavy on them, who thall feel it, without the allei.iali:n of any profit.
Locke.

Alt ego'rically. a^-v. [from allegory.]
Virgil often

feveral ingredients of different value.

they are not the favours, but the duties of friendSouth.
(hip.

Benihy.

alltgwica!, in regard fj the rays -/fthe fun.

he

The arithmetical rule that teaches to
adjuft the price of compounds, formed of

Alliga'tor. a,/. The crocodile. This
name is chiefly ufed for the crocodile

or extenuating.

The epithet of .^po'lo for (hootirg. is capable
of two applications ; one liter.il, in rcfpcdl of the
da'-ts and b..w, the en.G^ns of that god; the other

as,

2.

All apologies tor, and oUeviatiom of faults,
though they are the heights of humanity, yet

literally anil

grofsly.

Bentley,
;

To

being fo tied.

me in defcribing the pra^ic part.

To extenuate, or foften

GLnville.

Allica'tion.h./ [ from alligate.
The aft of tying together ; the ftate of
1

Allevi a'tion. n.f. [from alleviate.]
1. The a£l of making light, of allaying,

a'lcg'r'tcal

him

the manner of itiWl occult.

To A'LLIGATE. -j. a. [alligo, Lat.]
tie one thing to another ; to tmite.

wiales his fault by an excufe.

the form of an allegory ; not real ; not
literal ; myffical.
and
xnyilicai fenfe, Except ye eat the ^t'/h of thj Son
of Man, and drinlc his blo-^-d, ye havi no life in

any thing ; magnetifm ; attraftion.
The feigned central allieimey is but a word, and

to eafe ; to foftenr

we bring up.in ourfelves.
2.

Mi'fcn.

an

;

Harvey.
Moft of the dillempers are the effects of abufed
plenty imd luxury, and muft not be charged upon
our Maker; who, notwiththmding, hath provided
excellent medicines, to alleviate thofe evils which

Allego'rical. a.|y. [from alhgory.] In

When our Saviour fiid, in

Alli'ciency. n. f. [allicio, Lat. to entice or draw.] The power of attrafting

The pains taken in the fpeculative, will much

Alleco'rick. ai^. [fromr.M.gory.] After

Real or al/e^mci, I ditern rot.

DiSl.

To make light

1

For your great graces
Heap'd upon m?, po:ir undsferver, 1
C.^n noching render but alli'g'tart thanks.
My pvay'ri to heaven tor you. S}-iiif'f>, Hen. Vtll.

dorn,

I would not boall the gi-eitnc.'^s of my father,
But point out new alliances to Cato.
Mdifin,

his

To ALLE'VIATE. -v. a. [allevo, Lat.]

conformable to the duty of alhgiance:
a word not now ufeJ.

the manner of an allegory ; not real
not literal.
A kingdom they portend thee ; but what king-

fet

ALLEMA'NDE. n.f. [Ital.] A grave kind

altegUrtce to

Alle'giant. ar^'. [from allege.'\ Loyal;

will

,

Shakrfp. Richard III.

The perfons allied to each Other.

5.

tongue to thofc pious divine
ftrains, which may be a proper praeludium to thofe
alUlujahi he hopes eternally to fing.
G'i'crnmcnT ofthf Tcrrvue.

To hold your Haughtering hands, and keep the
dlreflcd by

This fair alliance quickly fliall call home

To high promotions.

A

We cha ge you, on allfgiance to ourfclves,

are

Dorfct, y:>ur fon, that with a feirful fjul
Leads difcontented fteps in foreign foil.

means gay, as in Milton.
written for Hallelujah, ihh'n and n'.]
word of fpiritual exultation, ufed in
hymns ; it fignifics, Praife God.

Fngland, profefling

lation to another ; the ail of making a
confederacy.

of the fi.x diftinftions of lime.
It exprefles a fprightly motion, the quicketl
of all, except I'refto. It originally

pluck alliziance from mrn's hearts,

petitions

Pcpe.

The aft of forming or contrafting re-

\.

ALLE'GRO. n. /. A word denoting one

Loud Ihouts and Ulutations from their mouths,
£vea in the prefcnce of the crowned king.

whom every day

Thence ftrite ihail rife, and mortal war fucceed.

the veget.itivf. huriMur or moifturc that
rckeneih and givctb lite to trees and flowers,
w!ietely -l-.'-y gr;^v.',
Peacham.

ALLELUJAH. n.f. [This word is falfely

to

Shakijf. Henry IV.

Adraftus foon, with gids averfr, ih.ill join
In dire eiHiarce with the Tin-ban line

ij

duty of fubjefts to the government.

peace.

My father loft his head.

Ben. yonfor,.

nl'ugwy,

Alle'giance. «./. [alhgeancc, Fr.] The

The houfe of commons,

And, for alliar.ci' fake, declare the caufe

This word nympha meant nothing tlfe but, by

alleges.

I did

J.

wc draw rut our alhgory too
we make ouifelves obfcure, or

fall into aO'e£tation, which is childilh.

He that

Tlie narrative, if we bdicv^ it as confidfntly as
the fam'^us allfger of it, Pamghilio, appcirs to i-^.
would argue, that there is no other principle requifite, tlian what may rel'ult from the lucky
iiiixture of fcveral bodies.
BifU.

Relation by any form of kindred.

rent of authority.

rosy t-c fo'vpd, that
Br'^wn's l\lfar Err'iurs.

agawifi it«

ALL
and the pa-

the daughter ef diligence,

;/

Relation by mariiagt?.

A blo)dy Hymen fha.l th' fl//fdflf« join
Bclw.xt tlic Trojan and th' Aufoolan line. Dryd.

3.

The admiffion of an article in reckoning, and addition of it to the account.

An allowance made upon an account
a term ufed in the Exchequer.
Chambeisi

Allocu'tion. n.f. [allocuiio, Lat.] The
aft of fpeaking to another.

Allo'dial. adj. [fjom allodium.] Held
without

without any acknowicJ~tnent of fuperiority ; not feudal ; independent.
ALLODIUM. K.f. \k word of very uncertain derivation, but moll probably of
German original.] A poiTellion held in
abfolute independence, without any acknowledgment of a lord paramount. It
is oppoled to fee, or feidum, which intircates f'omc kind of dependence. 1 iiere
are no allodial lands in England, all
being held either mediately or immediately of the king.

Tcpe.
That fome of the PreJbyterians declared openl)
agaiurt the king's murder, 1 aikiu to be true.

2.

It

likewife taken for a

is

To jnilify

to maintain as right.
The pow'rs above

To grant

;

Bible.

civility, alloiv too much finthe profeifions of molt men ; but tliink
their actions to be interpreters or their thoughts.

here as yiu pleafe.

To grant licenfe to

3.

aft

of fpeaking

to

another ;

converfation.

6.

Pli'if!.

7.

To appoint for
ufe ; as,

;

His bark

fen the third

To make abatement, or provifion
fions

If we conGder the different occalions of ancient
and modern medals, we fliall find thev botli ag ee
in recording the great anions and fucceflijs in
war ; a/hiaing ftiU for the differei.t ways of making it, and the clrcumDanccs that attended it.

each his Ihare.
S^ncc fame was the only end cf all their ftiicannot be tii fcrupulous in at'cnir.g

them their due prrtion of it.

Ta:Icr.

many

To

2.

That which is

Brvwni Vulgar Erroun.
permitted or liceiifed ;

God alh-.valle.

'

Tinfyarc, and an alktmetti for olives and herts.
Brcome.

Willingnefs ; content.

Die/.'

ALlU'DE. -j. n. \nUudo, Lat.] To
infinuate.

It is ufed of perlbns ;

alludes

an

as,

to

;

to

as, he

old Jlory ; or, of things,

the lampoon alludes

his mother's

to

faults.
Thcfe fpeeches of Jerom and Chryfoflom do
fecm to allude unto luch miniltcrial garments as
were then in ufe.
Hooker,
True it is, that many things of th's natuie be

linker.

I was, by the freedom jHytvabie among friends,
tempted to vent my thoughts with aegligencc.

It is laid C'„c into a grove for fruits and (hade, a

[alluie/eeatia,

have fome reference to a thing, without

In adtions of this fort, the light of nature aIrnc may difcover that which is in the fight 01

mi lawfully alk of Cod.

y.

the direct mention of it ; to hint at

j

lawful ; net forbidden.

mo e kancy atlfitmtnii, yet thus much we may

Atterl'Ury,
ff.

ber'ore our Saviour, walhirg his feet on her knees

which will not confill with the t-'xt.

Sogeis'i Sertnmi.

a/ludtd unto, yea, many things declared.

B-.yle.

Hooker,

Then j uft proportions were taken, and cveiy thing

Reputation becomes a fignal and a very peculiir
blefti g to magiftrates ; and their purfu!t of it ii
not only alLiuoble but laudable.

placed by we-ght and mcafure : and this 1 doubt
not wai that artificial flruflure here alluded to.
Burm'Cs Theory*

Atrertiiry's Sertrxni,

Allo'wableness. a./, [from alloiua- Allu'minor ff.y; [allumer, Fr. to light.]
One who colours or paints upon paper
tli.] The quality of being allowable;
.

A How .-ne fuch exercifcs as may became a gentleman, or give me the poor allotttrj my father left

lawfulnefs ;

me by tell.Tm-r.t.
Stat'/fcar/.
To ALLOW. "J. a. [alliuer, Fr. from «/-

To admit ; as, to allcui a podtion ;
not to contradifl ; not to oppole.
The principles which ail mankind alkiu for

thofe, that men of right rejfon
admit, arc the principles allm>ii\^ all mankind.

true, are innate;

Ln.it.

exemption from

or parchment ;

prohibi-

light,

tion.
Lots, as to their nature, ufe, and aUc^vablemfs,
in matters of recreation, are indeed impugned by

laudare, Lat.]
I.

more exquifite degree than they are by

men ; for they tafte them finceie and pure without

pieces of Raphael, where Magdalen is reprefented,

thij uorld, but in a refignation co ihr a/Utnimu

ment.

Locke.

The pleafuies of (enfc are probably reiiflied by
beafts in 3

Lat.]

not altvivable, what is obfervable in

AlUy is baTer nne-

Abatement ; diminution.

contradiftioii.
It is

Ai-i.o'tter Y. ». /. [from allot.]
That
which ij granted to any particular
perfon in a dillributicn.
See Allot-

mixed with It.

1

TTiat which is allotted to any one ; the
part, the (hare, the portion grafted.
There can be no thcught of f; • .;y or quiet ir

2. Part appropriated.

mixture oC any bafcr metal.

tal

mixture or alley.
Allo'wable. aifj. [from alloiv.]
That which may be admitted without Allube'sce-VCY.

Allo'tment. n.f. [from allot.]

of God and nature.
L^Fflrange,
Thcu_h i: is ocr duty to fubmitwith patience

tlie

2,

AUdifin.

dies, a man

Shakefp,

Let anoihcr piece be c^ned of the fame weightjf
wherein half the filver is taken cut, and copper,
or other fl//oy, pilt into tlie place, it will be worth
but half as much ; for tiie value of the alloy is fa
inconfiderable as not to be reckoned.
Locke,

any thing, with Ibme concefor cautions regarding fomething

elfe.

defcrve my fate, if [ refute

reafanabiy

or

to (cttle

That bappy hour which heaven allots to peace*
Dry den.
3. To diftribute ; to parcel out ; to give

to

;

ftoutly timbered, a id his pilot

'I hat precife weight and fincnels, by law appropriated to the pieces of eacli dcnominatl^'n, is
caiied the llandard.
Fine filver is filver without,

to fet oat tb a certain

his

is

Of veiy expert and approved allc^vance,
Ali.o'y. fi./. [See Allay.]
1
Bafer metal mixed in coinage.

wc no tears al/mu

he allovicJ

i'li'i/r.

reputation.

Eftablifhed charaftcr ;

6.

part of his income.
8.

Five d:!js we dj alJat rhec for provifion,
To fliic!d thee from cifafters of the winld ;
And, on tlic fmh, to fjr.i thy h ited tjck
Upon our kingdom.
Sbakefj), King Lear,

1.

gm

fTal/er.

addrefs ;

To grant.

I (h.\\\

it

is

pafiion.

to authorise.

To him that gave us peace and empire t?o.

The
Dici.

!

rigour of a

pccip, though written in heroic!::
of the Pindarick natuic, as well in tll^
tnrught as the expieflion ; and, as fuch, requiics
Drydtr;,
the lame grains of a/Uiuance for ir.
I'arents never
alLivance: for an innccent

verfp,

To give to; to pay to.
Ungi a'.efu! then

To ALLO'T. -v. a. [from /o/.]
I. To dillfibute by lot.
2.

;

llrift

1 he whole

rkcf ii. 4.

1 here is no flandcr in an a!it/tv\i fool. Sbakijp.

The noxioj^ h-^rd, and print u't>on their cars
[allDjuiam, Lzt.]

To give a fanftion to

-

.

Abatement from the
law, or demand.

5.

2 K.rp.

'

his life.

all

Stc! efpet^re.
to be

They referred all hws, that wore to be palTed in
Ireland, tJ be conilJered, correSed, and at/ctorii
firrt by the itatc of E.>^land.
Vifjiiscn Jre^'ai.J,

thy f. rirua maflifF; bid him vex

». yr

1 he vliflual in piartatiofts ought to be expended
almoil as in a beiieged town; that is, with certain
Baccru
aiUxrance.
And his alicivance was a continual alh'wsrtii
g'vcn liim of the king ; a daily rate for every day

to permit.
Let's follow the olj earl, and get the beldam
To lead him where he would ; his roguiih mad-

put in
truft with the gofpef, even to we ("peak, not as
plealing men, but t^od, which trieth our hnrts.

;

A'lloqj;v.

ufe.

nefs

from all lo, look all ; (hewing the objeft.] To fct on ; to incite a dog, by

L ih,

A fettled rate, or appointment for any

4.

;

1

make ufe of their rcafon, before they

give alhivjitce to their irclinations,

i^ivift.

yUlmii i!fe'f to any thing.
But as we were alli'.i'ed of God

and is ufed to dogs,

A fad m:mo-ial of their paft offence.

corfult and

t'">

Lo:kc.
T {hall be ready to alkio the pope as little p.nvrr

4.

Permiflion ; freedom from reftraint.
Thry (hcuij therefore be accuftonicd betimes to

3.

;

yjllc'j

Shakefpeert,

to own any one's

to yield ;

V\e will nor, in

long rein,

crying alLo.

Vcu fcrit a large commiflicn to conclude.
Without the king's will, rr the Hate's alh-wance,'
A lea^jUe bctwctn his Highoelsand Ferrara.

Shakfjptare.

title to.
cerity

Sanction ; licenfe ; authority.

2.

The Lord allowtlh the righterus.
3.

when they are incited to the chace or
battle
commonly imagined to
it
is
come from the French allons perhaps

r

>Mthi>ut the notii'n and alh-uiaree of (pirits,
our philofnphy will be lame and defcflive in one
Lccke,
main part of it.

;

Alhvj obedience.

when the horfe is trotted in the hand.
To Allo'o. v. a. [This word is generally fpoken halloo,

for itfelf nothing.

Ziij'ift.

2.

A pafs or thruil with a rapier, fo called
from the lengthening of the (pace taken
up by the fencer.

allitvance of them that fuccecd, although it pTead
Hc.ier,

Th*^ pow'r of mufick all our hearts cliiv;

Ard what Timothcus v.as, is Diyuen now.

Allo'nge. n.f. [ailonje, Fr.]
1.

ALL

ALL

ALL

Ibme, though better defended by others.
South^s Sermort,

I.

AdmilTion without contradiftion.
'1

hat which wifd'jm did

been with good

firft

begin, and hath

mca long continued, challengetb

to the letters or

figures coloured.

Coiuell.

To ALLLJ'RE. 'V, a, [leurer, Fr. looren,
Dutch bdls)-.4n. Sax.] Toentici- toany
thing whether, good or bad to draw towards any thing by enticement.
;

;

.

Allo'wance. 1./. [from allciu.]

becaul'e he gives graces,,

and ornament,

Unto laws that men make for the benefit of
men, it hath fectned always needfil to add rewards, which may more allure unto good, than
9

•njr

ALL

A L M

A L M

any hardnefs detemth from it ; and puniUjments,
M'hii^h may more deter from evil, th>n any fwcet-

defined an infeniible increment, brought by the
Cowell.
water.

Hooker.
ocli thcict.i allurcth.
The golden fun, in (plendoiir likeft heav'n
AL/ton'i PuradifcLiJijil.w'ii his eyf.

Allu'vidus. aJj. [from allwvion.] That

Each flacc'ring hofc, and each aliurir.g joy.

place, and lodged upon fcmething elic.
To ALLY', -v. a. [alliir, Fr.]
friendlhip, or
1. To unite by kindred,

Lyitlitcn,

Ali.u'rf. 1. f. [from the verb allure.']
Something fct up to entice birds, or
other things, to it.

We now write lure.
m

he tathct to train th
to his allure, he told
both otKni ^\\i with a vehement voice, how
they vi'cre over-topped and trodden down by g'nIIiiytL'ttfit.
itcmeM.
I

the.Ti

All u'rement. n./. [from allure.] That
which allures, or has the force of alluring i enticteent ; temptation of pleafure.

and a world
Oti'eiiJed i t'carlci's of reproach, and fcorn.
Alihoni Paradiff Lrji.
Or vioifncc.
.Adam, by his wife's alluremM, tVll.
A^-ninft a/'urcmrnt, cuftom,

—

X

To niindt refuivM. turew.irn'd, and well prvpar'd

;

But wond'ious diilkult, when once bcfet.

To fttugjle through the firaits, and break th' inlo.ving net.

Dryiitn,

Ai-lu'rer. n.f. [(rom allure.] Theperfon that allures ; enticer ; inveigler.

Allu'ri KGLY.art'x'. [from allure.] In an
alluring manner ; enticingly.
Ali.u'ri N GNESS. n.f. [from alluring.]
The quality of alluring or enticing ; invitation ; temptation by propofing plea-

Allu'sion". n. /. [allufio, Lat.] That
which is fpoken with reference to fomething fuppofed to be already known, and
therefore not exprclfej ; a hint : an imIt has the particle to.

plication.
Here are manifeft olhf.ons and footfteps of the
as it was in the deluge,
Burners Theory.
and will be in ir^ bll ruin.
difliflufion ni the earth,

'1 his hft allafii"! gall'd the Panther more,
Dryden.
Becaufe indeed it ri;b'/'d upon the fore.
Expreffions now out of ufe, nUuJions to cuftoms
loft to us, and varitms particularities, muft neeJs
L'jcke.
continue fcveral paHjgts in the dark.

Ai.Lu'siVE. adj. [alludo, allufum, Lat.]
Hinting at fcmething not fully e.vprefled.
Where the exprcflirn in one place is plain, and
the fenfe affixed to it ai;recab!e to the proper force
of the words, and no negative objeilion requires
uj to depart from it ; and the exprcflion, in the
other, is figurative or cUuJ\-vc^ and the do£lrinc,

from it,

liable to r^reat obj;;flJons ;

it

is

this litter place,

to reftrain tbe extent of the figure and ailuiiun to a confiiiency with
Robert's So Mens.
the former.

Ai-Lu'si VELY. a^v. [from alliiji've.] In
an allufive mmner ; by implication j by
inSnuation.

The Jewifli nation, that rcjefled and crucified
.him, within the compafs of one generation, v\crr,

It fcrveth to the

mighiircfi,

Hocker,
In creating and making exillcnt the world univerfjl, by the abfolute a£l of his own word, Co4

Viewed his power and almightinejs.

i'feajer on Ireland.

The common int'reft, or endear the tye.
Pofe.
To the fun el/y'd.
From him they draw the animating fire. Thctnjen.
2. To make a relation between two things,
by fimilitude, or refemblance, or any
other means.

air tValtcr Raleigh.
In the wildemefs, the bittern and the dork, the
unicorn and the elk, live upon his proviHons, and
revere his power, and feel the foicc of his aimi^b-

but they

fenfe ;

arc too like

Of unlimited power; omnipotent.
The Lord apjeared unto Abraham, and fald
unto him, I am the almighty God; walk before
Cemjit xvii. i.
He wills you in the name oi God almighty.
That you djvcft yourfclf, and lay apart
1 he borrow'd glories, that, by gift of heav'n,
By law of nature and of nations, 'long
To him and to his hei s.
Slake fjreare,
me, and be thoa perfeft.

the tcndcrners of

Dryden.

Ally', n.f. [nllie, Fr.] One united by
feme means of connexion ; as marriage,
friendlhip, confederacy.
He in court ftood on his own feet; for the moft
of his allies rather leaned upon him than Hiored
H^ofun.
him.
We could hinder the acceflion of Holland to
France, either as fubjedls, with great immunities
for the encouragement of trade, or as an inferiour
and dependent ally under their protection. Terr.ple.

JLMACA'NTAR.

n.

f.

[An

the horizon.

to

rallel

It is

ral

Ihc civil law gives the owner of land a rigfit to
dut incieafe which ari/esfrum alluvion, wluch is

into an oily one.

Locke*

It has leaves and flowers very like thofe

of the peach tree, but the fruit is longer
and more comprefled ; the outer green
coat is thinner and drier when ripe, and
the (hell is not fo rugged.
Miller,

drawn through the fevedegrees of the meridian.

Alm aca'ntar's Staff, n. f. An in-

Like to an almond tree, mounted high

Urument commonly made of pear-tree

On top of Green Selcnis, all alone.

or box, with an arch of fifteen degrees,
ufed to take obfervations of the fun,
about the time of its riling and fetting,
in order to Jind the amplitude, and con
fequently the variation of the compafs.

With blollbms brave bedecked daintily,
Whofe tender locks do tremble every one,
At every little breath that under heav'n is blown.

Mark well the flow'ring almonds in the wood j
If od'rous blooms the bearing branches load.
The glebe will anfwzr to the fylvan reign.

Chambers.

[Derived, by fome,
from the Arabick al, and manah, Heb. to
count, or compute ; by others, from al,
Arabick, and ^))», a month, or (/.ix»«>!oc,
the courfe pf the months ; by others, frciT!

Great heats will follow, and laige crops of grain.
Dryd.n.

A'lmonds op the throat, or Tonsils, called improperly Almonds of the
two round glands placed on
the fides of the bafis of the tongue, under the common membrane of the fau ces ; each of them has a large ov,aI
finus, which opens into the fauces, and
in it are a great number of lefler ones,
which difcharge thcmielves through the
great finus 0/ a mucous and llippery
matter into the fauces, larynx, and cefophagus, for the moiftening and lubri-

ears, are

a Teutonl:k original, al and maan, the
moon, an account of efery moon, or

month: all of them are probable.] A
calendar ; a book in v;hich the revolutions of the fcafons, with the return of
feafts and falls, is noted for the enfuing
year.
It will

year;

all

Who in thefe ftudies docs herfeif delight
By whom a greafy almarack is borne,
With often hand.. fg, like chaft amber worn.
Dryden
I'll

have a fafting almanack printed on purp^le
Dryden^t Spanijh Friar

for her ufe.

J'LMJNDINE.
Ital.]

A

[Fr. almandina,
f.
ruby coarfer and lighter than
n.

'

Fairy •^een,

A'lmakack. ». f.

elfe

thing elf-.

the clear white' colour
and the fweet tafte

A'lmond tree. ». yC [amygdalus, Lat.]

parallel circles

GovcrnmenI of tie Tciigue.
Beware the woman too, and (hun her fight,

by the motion of the water.
a. The thing carried by water to fome-

Pound an almond, and

will be altered into a dirty one,

ufed in the plural, and means a feries of

Uammcrtd.

The carrying of any thing to fcmething

almond tree, either fweet or bitter.

generally

Ai.i.u'sivENESs. rt. f. [from alLfiije.]
The quality of being allufive.

Allu'vion. »._/". \_nlliivio, Lat.)

.^'lmon'd. n. /. [amand, Fr. derived by
Menage from amandala, a word in low
Latin ; by others, from Allcmand, a German ; fuppofing that almonds come to
France from Germany.] The nut of the

Arabick

word, written varioully by various authors
by D'Herbelot, almocantar ; by
others, almucantar.] A circle drawn pa-

Tayjtr.

tincfi.

Almi'ghty. adj. [from all and mighty.]

Two lines are indeed remotely allied to Virgil's
Ovid.

woild for a witnefs o( his al-

whom we outwardly honour with the

cbiefeli of cutward things.

Wants, frailties, paHions, dofer ftill ally

be faid, this Is an ainuir.ack for the old
hath been vvcUj Spain hath not aiTaikd
Baron.
this kingjom.
illrologer made his almanack give a tolcia'J his
ble account <if the weather, by a iXreSl iuverfioii
of the common prognofticators.

according to his p.edi^rion, dellroyed by the Ronians, and pieycd upon by thofe eagles (Afjir
jtr.'tv. 28.), by which, ailujively, are noted liic Roman armies, whofe enCgn was th: eajjlc.

I.

the attributes of God.

All thefe fcpcs are allied to the inhabitants of the
North, fo as there is no hope that they will e>cr

;

fure.

Tcafcinable, in

[from almighij.]
Unlimited power ; omnipotence ; one of

confederacy.

ferve faithfully agjinit them.

and nearer the colour of
DiH.

Alm I'cHTi NESS. n.f.

carried by water to another

is

Pitrad'ljc Regain f J.

To (hun th' tlhrcmevt'n not Jiard

ile.'luccd

which

the oriental,
the granate.

When the a-fopha-

cating thofe parts.
.gus mufcle afts,
,

it

compreflfes the al-

mondi, and they frequently are the occafion of a fore tliroat.

The

^incy.

or

aimttnds of the ears, are alfo
fre:juently fwclled in the kmg's evil j wfiich tutonlil<,

mour may be very well reckoned a fpecies of it.
ff^ijeman^s Surgcjy,

A'lmond-furnacc, or A'lman-fu rKACE, called alfo the Snveep, is a peculiar k

nd of furnace ufed in refining, to
feparate m.:tals from ciaders and other
foreign fubliances.

Chambers.

A'LMOKtR,

A L M
A'lmoser., or A'lmwer. n. f.

I'll

\eleemofy-

1 enquired tor an almctrer'j and the general fame
has pointed out your reverence as the worthie:t

fical

The

where the almoner relides, or
where the aim? are dii^ributed.
AlMo'sT. ad-v. [from all and tnojl that
'\%,
Nearly;
moft part of all. Skinner J\
place

well nigh ; in the next degree to the
whole, or to univerfality.
or other, luve or anjcr, fear or grief, has not fo
fome clog, that it could not turn itfe'.c

fiiSened to

•

Btntley'i S^mcn:,

Addtjon*

ALMS.

Saxon, elmej-, from
What is given graeUemofyna, Lat.]
It has
tuitoully in relief of the poor.
n. f.

[in

no fingular.

My arm'd knees.
Which bow'd but in my (lirrup, bend like his

alio

Mauritania. By the wood almugim, or
algumim, or fimply gummim, taking al
for a kind of article, may be underlTood
oily and gummy forts of wood, and particularly the trees which produce gum
ammoniac, or gum arabick ; and is,
perhaps, the fame with the Shittim
wood mentioned by Mofes.
Calmet.
And the navy alfo of Hiram that brought gold
from Ophir, brought in from Ophir great plenty oi
almug-treei and precious trees.
i Kings, x. 11.

SbakeJl>€are.

A'lnagar, A'lnager, or A'lneger.
n.f. [from alnage.'\ A meafurer by the
ell ; a fworn officer, whofe bufinefs for-

;

tice, and opprcflion, if he does not atfurd relief ac-

cording to his abilities.

Sivift,

Alms-basket. «./. [from a/;n/ and bafkel.'] The baflcet in which provifions are
put to be given away.
There fweepings do as well.

At the bell order'd meal
For who the relifll of thefe guefts will fit.

merly was to infpeft the affize of woollen
cloth, and to lix the fcals appointed
upon it for tliat purpofe ; but there are
now three officers belonging to the
regulation of cloth-manufaftures, the
fearcher, meafurer, and alneger.
DiS.
A'lnace. n.f. [from aulnage, or au-

Needs fet them but the almi-bajktt of wit.
Ben yotij^fi.
We'll (land up for our properties, was the beggar's
fong that lived upon the almi-ba/ket.

meafuring by the ell or yard.
Di3.
A'lnight. n.f. [from a// and «/g-/'/.]

L EJlrange'i FMcs,

A fervice which they call almgbt, is a great cake

A'lmsdeed. n.f. [from alms and deed.'\

of wax, with the wick in the midft j whereby it

An aft of charity ; a charitable gift.
This woman was full of good works, and almsy*3i, .x. 36.
Jttdi which (he did.
Hard-favour'd Richard, where art thou ?
Thou art not here murdir is thy alirideed
Petitioner for Hood thou ne'er put'll back. Shaie/f.
:

A'lms-gh'e r. n.f. [from alms and gl'va:]

He that gives alms

;

he that fupports

others by his charity.
He endowed mar^y religious foundations, and yet
was he a great alnti-^lver in fecret, which lhewc-1
that his works in publick were dedicate^ rather to
Baeon.
God's glory than his own.

A'l.MSHOUSE. n.f. [from alms ind i>t>uje J
A houfe devoted to the reception and
fupport of the poor ; an hofpital for the
poor.
Theivay of providing for the clergy by tithes, the
ie\\cKof almshiujei f^r the poor, and the forting out
Huttkcr,
of the p-*oj'Ic inrj paiifbc', a.e manifeftAnd to relief of lazars, and weak age

Of inHig"nt faint fouls, palt corporal till,

A iiiiJi d a/mshtafes right well fupplied. Sbakeft,
Many

penitents,

after the roboing of temples

and other rapine, build an hofpital, or alitubtufe^
out of ihe ruins of the church, and the fpoils of
L' EJirtinge.
widows and orphans.
EehoH yon almihcufe, neat, but void of (late.
Where age and want fit fmll'ng at the gate. Pope,

A'lmsman. n.f. [from alms and »/««.]
A man who lives upon alms who is
;

fupported by charity.

is

nage, Fr.]

ment farther off.

A'LOES. n.f.

Aloe'tick. n.f.

is

Loft air, Icelandijh ; fo that aloft is, into
the air.] On high ; above ; in the air:
a word ufed chiefly in poetry.
For I have read in (lories oft.

That love has wings, and foars alft,

SuckUn^,
Upright he ftood, and bore akjt h's fliicld
Confpicuous from afar, and overlook'd the field.

Z?Q den^

Alo'ft. prep. Above.
The great luminary
Ahft the vulgar conftellations thick,
That from his lordly eye kec-p dil'ance due,
Difpenfcs light from far.

A'looy. n. f.
Alo'ne. adj.

2.

3. Aloes is

a medicinal juice, extrafted, not

from the odoriferous, but the common
aloes tree, by cutting the leaves, and expofing the juice that drops from them to
the fun.

It is di/linguifhed into

Sccoto-

Without company ;

folitary.

Alo'ne. ad-u.
1. This word is feldom ufed but with the
word let, if even then it be an adverb.
an ironical prohi-

It implies fometimes

bition, forbidding to help a man who i»
able to manage the affair himfclf.
Le: us alone to guard Corioii,
If they fet down before 's } 'fore they remove.
Sbi^keJ^earu
Bring up your army.
Lei you alone, cunning artificer ;
See how his gorget peers above his gown.
To tell the people in what darger he was.

Ben yonfott^
2.

To forbear

to leave undone.
His cHcnt dole it, but he had better have let it

alone;

;

for he lo!l his caufe

by his jeff.

Addijon,.

Alo'nq. ad~j. [au longne, Fr.]
1. At length.
Some rr.wl a mighty ftone

:

Spain.

Without another.
The quarrel touchcLh none but us aUfte;

Eagles we fee fly a/one, and they are but (hecp
Sidney*
which always herd together.
Alone, for other creature in this place
Living, or lifdcfs, to be found was none. Milton^
Dryden*
I never durrt in darknefs be ahne,

innermofl part, of the aloe tree; the next
part to which is called Calembac, which

though of inferiour value to the Tambac,
is much
eileemed
the part next the
bark is termed, by the Portuguefe, Pao
d^uquila, or eagle-wood ; but fome account the eagle-wood not the outer part
of the Tambac, but another fpccies. Our
knowledge of this wood is yet very imperfeft.
Salary.
z. Ahes is a tree which grows in hot countries, and even in the miountains of

Dia.
Dutch; from a/ and

Betwixt ourfelves let ;s decide it then.
Hbakefpm
If by a mortal hand my father's rhroiie
Could be defended, 'twas by mine ulone, Drydert*
God, by whofc alone pjwer and converfation we
Benl/ey*
all live, and move, and have our being.

fnppofed.]

Europe, and,

[alleea,

Unreafonable-

een, or one, that is, fngle.]
1 .

perfumes, of which the bell fort is
01 higher price than gold, and was the
moft valuable prefent given by the king
of Siam, in 1686, to the king of France.

IS Ibmetimes imported into

M'dnin^s Paradife LoJ}*

[a^oy©-.]

nefs ; abfurdity.

A term applied to three different things.
1. A precious wood ufed, in the Eaft, for

It is called Tambac, and is the heart, or

Any me-

[fromfl/of/.j

dicine is fo called, which chiefly confifls
^iiicy.
of aloes.
Alo'ft. ad-v, [^loffter, to lift up, Dan^

Bacon.

[obni*, as it

Con-

fifting chiefly of aloes.
It may be excicea by ahttical, fcammoniate, or
lyijemars Surgery,
acrimonious medicines.

f.U-nieafure, or rather the

Cometh to pafs, that the wick fetcheth the nourilh-

a warm and ftrong cathartick.
adj.
[f.'om aloes."]

Aloe'tical.

Ophir ; and the Thyinum, or citrontree, much cfteemed by the ancients for
its fragrance and beauty, came from

The poor beggar hath a juft demand of an utmj
from the rich man who is guilty of frauJ, injul-

That hath received an j!mi.

cond, becaufe, being coarfer, it ought
It
to be confined to the ufe of farriers.

common in Judea to be imported from

Who is there alwjf, whole mind, at fome time

Atlai becomes unequal fo his freitjh:.
And almtfi faints beneath the glowi.^g weight.

was ufed

it

ebony, braxil, or pine.
In the Septua
gint it is tranflated ixsrought luoad, and
in the Vulgate, Lignu Thyina.
But coral could never anfwer the purpofes of
the almugim ; the pine-tree is too

;

to an omnipotent God.

inflruments, and

in rails, or in a llaircafc.
The Rabbins generally render it coral, others

Drjticv

Locke,
to any otltcr objefl.
There can be no fuch thing or notion, as an a/
next
or
fecond
tnyji infinite' ; there can be nothing

rlne and Caballine, or liorfe aloes : the
firft is lo called from Sccotora ; the fe-

j

bution of charity.

almoner.^

give my jewels for a fet of beads

My gorgeous palace for a hermitage
My gay apparel for an almsmarCs gown. Shahefp,
A'lmug-tree. n.f. A tree mentioned in
fcripture.
Of its wood were made mu-

Lat.] The officer of a prince,
or other perfon, employed in the diftrintirius,

mm.
Ai'MONRY. n. f. [from

A L O

ALO

;

fome laid along.

burning wires, on (pokes of
Dryden,
wh-eis a c hung.

And bound
2.

with

Through any (pace mcafured lengthwife.

A firebrand carried along, leaveth a fra'n of light
Bjeon'i Ifalural UiJI'jiy^
behind it.
W'lerc Ufens glides along the lowly lands.
Pnmptii.a
(Inndy.
Drydcn*
Or the black water of
3.

Throughout ;
prefixed.
bilomon,

in

the whole

all along in

:

with ali

his Proverb", givi-s

the

Tilhtjon,
a wicked man.
They were all along a crofs, untoward f )rc cf

title of fool to

people.

Soutbm.

4. Joined with the particle ivitb; in com-

pany i joined with.
l>our

A L O
ynur cotnm'inion will foithwirh difpitch,
'An<l he to England (hall ahn^ with you.
I

Shaltfffnarc^s Hamlet.

Hence then and Evil go vmh chee a!img,
.Thy ofTspring, to the place of evil, Hell. Alilur.
t

Religious

ze.ll is

Aiould not have; or wlwn it wants fomething
that ought to j;o »i/o»j|' ^rA it,
Sfral.
it

Sometimes I'jiib is uiiderflood.
Command thy (laves my free-born foul difdains
:

A Tyrant's curb, and reftive breaks the reins.
(Though mine the woman) for my raviih'd prize.

6. Fonvard

onward. In this fenfe it is
.derived from allons, French.
Come then, my friend, my genius, comt afoftg,
Thou mafter of the poet and tlie fong.
Pspc.

Alo'ncst.
-';feems,

;

ati-v.

[a

corruption,

from along.]

as

it

Along; through

the length.
Tlic Turks did keep ftrait watch and ward in all
their ports alotigjl the fca coaft.

KmlUs's Hijlory cf:te Turks.

Alo'of. aii'v. [all off", that is, gui/e 0^'.]
I. At a diftance ; with the particleyru/a.
generally implies a fmall dillance,
fuch as is wichia view or obfervation.

Then bade the knight this la.iy jc^c «fct/.

And to an hill herfelf withdraw afide,
Trom whence flie might behold the battle's proof,
And elfe be fate from danger far dcfciicd.
Feiry Slucn.

As next in waith,
.Came fingly where he itoo^[, on the bare Hrand,
While the promifcuous crowd flood ypxa!oof.
Miitm's Paraaie Loft
The noife approaches, though our palace flood
.jj/ooffrcm llreets, encompafs'd with a wooi.
Dr-yilert.

z. Applied to perfons, it often infinuates
caution and circumfpeftion.
Turn on the bloody hounds with heads of ftcel.

And make the cowards fland d/iw/'at bay. SbaUfjt.
Going northwards, ahof, as long as they had any
duubt of being purfued ; at lafl, when thry were
out cf reach, they turned and crofled the ocean to
Baan.

Spain.

The king would not, by any means, enter thr
city, until he had aiocf (etn the crofs fct

up upon
the greater tower of Granada, whereby it became
Chriftian ground.

Bacon.

Two pots flood by a river, one of brafs, the
other of clay. The water carried them away ; the
earthen veflel kept alocffrom t'other.
L'EJlrange'i FahUs.

The ftrong may fight ahaf; Ancaeus try'd
His force too near, and by prefuming dy'd.
VrydetCs FabUi.

3. In a figurative fenfe, it is ufed to import
art or cunning in converfation, by which

a man holds the principal queition at a
diftance.
Nor do we find him forward to be founded ;
But with a.crafty madnefs keeps aUof,
When we would bring him on to fome confcfTion

'Of his true flate,
Shaktfpeari'i Hjm/er.
It is ufed metaphorically of perfons that
will not be feen in a defign.

4.

If is neceffary the

queen join ;

for, if flie fland

there will be ftill lufpicions: it being a received opinion, that flie-hajl' a great interefl in ihe

tf/co/",

•

king's favour and power.

Sncklmg.

5. It is applied to things not properly be-

longing tp each other.
Love's not love,
When iris mingled with regards that fland
Ai'txffrem tli' entire point.

In thefe two, no doubt, are contained the caofei
of the great dc.ug;:, as according to Motes, fo alft
according to nc^ellity ; for our world aflords no
other treafurcs of wat^r.
Burnet's Tbery.

atoutif

And thrice he (hook aloft a golden cloud. DryJen.
Alo'w. at/v. [from a and /aw.] In a low

2. Jlj'o is fometimes neaily the

fame with
and, and only conjoins the members of
the fentencc.
Cod dj I'o CO me, and more alfa.

place ; not aloft.
And now alvzvt and now aloft they Hy,
As borne through air, and feem to touch the (ky.

A'lPHA.

Shahffetite's K. [.ear,

Ai.o'uD. cdiv. [from « and /o«./.] LouJly;
with a ftrong voice; with a great noi4e.

n. /.

The

firft

letter in

the

Greek alphabet, anfwering to our A

;

I

ceived, with chriftianity, in all the Eu-

ropean languages ; and that altare is
ufed by one of the Fathers, as appropriated to the Chriftian worftiip, in oppofttion to the ara of gentilifm.]
The place where offerings to heaven arc

A'LPHABET. n. f. [from ^Mpa, alpha,
and ^iTtt, beta, the two firft letters of
the Greeks.]
The order of the letters,
or elements of fpeech.
Thou flialt not figh,

1

laid.

The goddefs of the nuptial bed,
Tir'd with her vain devotions for the dead,
Refjiv'd the tainted hand (hould be re^ell'd.

Nnr wink, nor nod, nor kneel, nor make a fign.
But I of thcfe will reft an alflahtt.

Which incenfe offer'd, and her altar held.

And by ftill pra£lii||( learn to know thy meaning.
Sbakeffteare.
ral

Her grace rofe, and, with inodeft paces.

fyliables

Came to the altar, where (he kncei'd, and faintlike
Cafl her fair eyes to heav'n, aud piay'd devoutly.

Sbakefpean^

A'ltarace. ». /T [allaragium, Lzt.] An

Drytl. jun. Juv.

To

A'lphabet.
noun.]

[from alphabet,
To range in the order of the
a.

t>.

Dryd,

The table in Chriftian churches where
the communion is adminillered.

2.

The letters of the a'.fhahel, formed by tho ("cvemotions of the mouth, and the great variety of
compofed of letters, and formed with alnioft equal velocity, and the endlefs number of
w.trds capable of being framed out of the aiphabet,
either of more fyllables, or of one, are wonderful.
IMder.
Taught by their nurfes, little children get
This fayirg, fooner than their alfhalet.

Sartuel, x!v. 44,

A'ltar. «./. [altare, Lat. It is obfervcd
by Junius, that the word al:ar is re-

therefore ufed to fignify the firft.
J am alpha and omc^a, the beginning and the
ending, faith the Lord, which is, and which was,
and which is to come, the Al.nighty. Rcvelationi.

•It
•

X\.so.aJv. [from a//andya.]
1. In the fame manner ; likewife.

Drydcn.

Talcc thx&aLngy and no difpute Hiall rife
'

Strangled he lies I yet fccms to eryalmJ,
To want the mighty, and inftrud the prjulj
That of the great, negledling to be juit,
Hcav'nina moment makes an heap of diift, H^alUr.
Then heai'n's high monarch thund'red thrice

fubjedl to an excefs, and to a

defeft, when fnm-thing is mingled with it which

5.

ALT

A L S

emolument

ariiing

oblations,

through the

alphabet.

prieft

from

means of the

Ajliji's Parcrgon.

altar.

A'ltar.-ci.oth.
cloth.]

the

to

[from altar and

n. f.

The cloth thrown over the altar

in chtrches.

.Alphabe'tical. \adj. [from alphabet;

I (houid fet down the wealth, books, hangings,
and altar-cloths, which our kings gave this abbey.

Alphabe'tick.

i alphaietique.Fr.l In
the order of the alphabet; according to

Peacbam on Dratvir.g^

To A'LTER, v. a.

the feries of letters.
have dig^ifted in an alphabetical order, all the
counties, corporations, and boroughs in Great Britain, with the.r rtfpedlve tempers.
Siu'ift.

ter,

]

Alphas e'c c a l l y
i

.

adv.

[

1.

To change; to make otherwife than it
To alter, fcems more prope?ly to
imply a change made only in fome part
cf a thing; as, to alter a writing, may

from alpha-

In an alphabetical manner;
according to the order of the letters.

be, to blot, or interpolate it ; to change
it, may be, to fubftitute another in its

i had once in my thouglits to contrive a grammar, more than I can now comprilt: in fii>rt hints;
and a di£fionary, at^babeticaUj containing the
words of the languagr, \^h1th%hc deaf pcrfon is to

learn.

place.

?

And of an earthly cold ? Sbjiefpcare's Henry VIII.
Afts appropriated to the worih'p of Gjd, by his

own appjintmenr, muft continue fo, till himfelf
hath otherwife declared: for who dares alter whit
God hath appointed ?
Siiltin^fi it.

Touching our uniformity, that wliicii hath been
Hickcr.

2.

To take ofFfrom a perfuafion, pradice,
or fett.

DrydtJI^i Irdian Empercr.
See, the guards, from yon fa^ eaftern hill
Already move, no longer flay aftord ;

High in the air they wave the flaming fword.
Your fignal to depart. Drydcn's State 0/ Inncccr.cc.
Methods for the advancement of piety, are in
the power of a prince, limited like ours, by a i\r\&.
execution of tlie laws already in force.
Swift.

A^cthinks, already 1 your tears furvey,
Already hear the horrid things they fay,
Already fee you a degraded toaft.
And all your honour in a whifpcr loft \

as, her face .

Uo you note

come foot! ? He is here already.
IVill it
be done ? It has been done already.

You warn'd me ftill of loving two ;
Can I love him, already loving y-tw ?

;

red.

How much her grace is altcr'd on the fuddcn ?
How long her face is drawn how pale flic looks.

and ready.]
At this prelent time, or at fome time
paft ; oppofeJ to futurity ; as, fVill he
«//

already anfwered, may ferve for anfwcr.

With froii and to

is altered from pale to

HaUcr's F.'ancnn of Speech.
i[frora

from al.

Lat.]

i?.

betical.]

Alre'ady. flifo.

[altercr, Fr.

Vnpt.

Als. adv. [als, Dutch.] Alfo ; likewife:
a word now out of ufe.
Srd remembrance now the prince amoves
With frelh defire his voyage to purfue ;
Ali Una eai n'd her travel to renew. Fairy f^uetn.

For the way of writing plays in verfe, I find it
troubkfome and flow j but 1 am no way alt-red
from my opinion of it, at leaft with any reafons
which have oppofed it.
Dryden.

To A'LTER. v. n. To become otherwife
than it was; as, the tueather alters yr««i
bright to cloudy.

A'lterable. adj. [from alter; alterable,
Fr.]
That which may be altered or
changed by fomething elfe ; diftinft
from changeable, or that which changes,
or may change itfelf.
That aUeviihtc reipc^ts are realities

in

natur3,

will never be admitted by a confidcrate difcerncr.
Glanv'tlle*

Our condition in this world Is mutable and uncertain,

ALT

ALT
IALTE'RNATE.

certain, a'teraUt by a thoufand accidents, which
Rogers,
we can neither forefce nor prevent.
I
I wifh they had been more clear in their direc-

re-

tinue.

ciprocal.
Friendfliip confifts properly in

and a generous

Snvifl.

mutual offices,
of kind-

in alternate afls

ftrife

nefs.

A'lterableness. n.f. [from alterable.']

South.

Hear how Timotheus' various lays furprife.
And bid alternate palTions fall and rife

The quality of bein^ alterable, or ad-

!

mitting change from external caufes.
A'lterably. adii. [from a/ieraile.] In
fuch a manner as may be altered.
A'lterage. !t./. [froma/o.] The breed-

While, at each change, the fon of Lybian Jove
Now burns with glory, and th« melts with love.

:

A'lterant. adj.

[^alterant,

That

Fr.]

evermore

a perception precedeth

elfc all bodies

operation ;

for

would be alike one to another.
Bacon.

Altera'tion. »./. [_hom alter ; altera-

Mc the gold of France did not fcduce.
Although I did admit it as a motive

oppofite fides of the cutting line ; the
below the firft parallel, and the
other above the fecond.

out which the laws would be of little weight,
although tliey be good additional fecurities.

though

And rais'd io pleafure, or repos'd in eafe,
Grateful alternates of fubftantial peace.
They blcfs the long nofturnal influence (hed

On the crown'd goblet, and the genial bed. Prior.
To Alte'rnate. i-. a. [alterno, Lat.]

The change made.
Why may we not prefume, that Cod doth even
call for fuch change or alteration, as
the very
condition of things themfcives doth make necef-

fary ?

Htcker.

So he, with difficulty and labour hard,
Mov'd on
But he once paft, loon after, when man fell.
Strange alteration ! Sin, and Death, amain
Following his track (fuch wa< the will of heav'n !)

2.

S-wift.

A'ltigrade, adj. [from alius z,nA gradior, Lat.]

Scuth.

Appins Claudius admitted to the fenate the
fons of thofe who had been Haves ; by which,
and fucceeding alterations, that council degenerated
into a moil corrupt body.

Swift.

Medicines called alterati-ve, are fuch as have
no frimediate fenfible operation, but gradually
gain upon the conilitution, by changing the humours from a llate of diftcmperature to health.
They are oppofed to evac^ani:.
*^incy.
When there is an eiuption of humour in any
part, it is not cured merely by outward applications, but by fuch alterative medicines as purity
Governm<nt of the Tcngur,
the blood.

Alterc a'tiov.
from

tt.

/.

Lat.]
wrangle.

altercer,

veriy ;
By this

[altercation, Fr.

Debate ;

contro-

meafuring altitudes or heights, whether
acceflible or inacceflible, generally performed by a quadrant.

Melodious hymns about the fov'reign throne

A L T i^so N A N t 1 adj.[alti/onus,hz.X.] High

jllternate all night long.

Alti'sonous.

Milton.

.

To change one thing for another re-

purfuit

The moft high God, in all things appertaining
unto this life, for fundry wife ends, alternates the
difpofition of good and evil.
Gre^v.
In reciprocal fucceflion, fo that each
(hall be fuccceded by that which it fuc-

Hakevjil! en Prcvittence.

Alte'rn. a/^'. [alfernus, Lat.] Afling by
turns, in fucceflion each to the other.
And God made two great liijhts, great for their
ufe

The lefs by night, a/tern.

Milton.

Ai.te'rnacy. «./. [from «//«r»<i/*.] Action performed by turns.

follows

The princefs Mclefinda, bath'd in tears.
And tols'd altirnately with hopes and fears.
Would learn from you tlic fui tunes of her lord.

By our weak optics is but vainly guefs d
Diftance and altitude conceal the reft.
2.

not much confiJerable, whether we
its
afcent, meridian, altitude, or abode
above the horizon.
Brown's Vulgar Errours,
Has not a poet more virtues and vices within
his circle, cannot he obferve them
and their in-

Al t e'r N A t V E
I

.

w. y.

fluences in tlieir oppofitions and conjunflions,
in
their altitudes and Ccpreflions

[alteriiatif, Fr.]

anotlier

Your altitude offends the eyes
Of thofe who want the power to rife.
Sivifi,
5. Height of degree ; highell point.

He uid it to plcafe his mother, and to be partly

proud i which he

Toiing.

Alte'rnatively. adv. [{rom alternamanner; by turns;

Shake/pear,.

alius and -velo.] High flying.

A'l together,

ad-v.

Dia.

[from all and to-

gether. ]

An appeal alternatively made may be tolerated
by the civil law as valid.

Ayhfft's Parrrg n,

Alte'rnaTivbness. n.f. [from alternaiive.] The quality or ftate of being
alternative ; reciprocation.

Alte'rnity. n.j.
;

Diel.

[(torn aliern.]

Reci-

viciflitude ;

turn ;

mutual change of one thing for another;
reciprocation.

They imagine,

even to the altitude of his

Alti volant. «<^'. [altivolans, Lai. from

reciprocally.

dimenfiofc*,

is,

, ""'^"V

Muft ladies have a doftor, or a dance ?

fucceflion

Bay,

Height of excellence ; fuperiority.

5.

be rejeded, the other rauft be

tive.] In alternate

m equal altitude, and anfwcr on each fide

one to another.

taken.
range altrrnatrve

Rymtr.

.>

Situation with regard to lower things.
Thofc members which arc pairs, ftand by
one

3.

the defeif

The choice given of two things; fo that

is

confider

alternately difpofcd to be reflcdted or tefrafted for
many vicilTltudci.
Nenvtcn.

of alteinj'kn w.iulii utterly impugn the generation
of all things.
Brown.

DryJtn,

Even unto the latitude of fifty, two, the efficacy
thereof

The rays of light are, by fome caufe or other,

ar.d fo

j

The elevation of any of the heavenly
bodies above the horizon.

!

th; other with infuffcrablc cold j

Brovin,

She fliines above, we know, bat in what place.

How near the throne, and heav'n's imperial face.

Unhappy man whom forrow thus and rage
To different ills alternately engage.
Prior.

The quality of being alternate, or of
happening in reciprocal fucceflion. DiJi.
Alterna'tiov. n./. [from alternate.]
The reciprocal fucceffion of things.
The one wnulil be opprcHed with conftant heat,

Lat.]

higheft mountains to be four miles
others but
j

Drjlien.

ft

£)/^,
[altitudo,

fifteen furlongs.

darknefs, and

darknefs follows light.

procal

To man; the greater to have rule by day.

Vol. I.

ceeds, as light

founding; pompous or

Height of place ; fpace mcafured upward.
Ten mafts attach'd make not the altitude.
Which thou haft perpendicularly fall'n. Shakeff.
Some define the perpendicular altitude of the

1

Alte'rnately. ad'v. [from alternate.]

A

j

lofty in found.

A'ltituDe, n.f.

ciprocally.

if one

of lower controverfies
amongfl men prot'effing religion, and agreeirg in
the principal foundations thereof, they conceive
hope, that, about the higher principles thcmfelvrs,
time will caufe altercation to grow.
Hotker.
Their whole life was little elfc than a perpetual
wrangling and altercation ; a.id that, many times,
rather for viftory and oftentation of wit, than a
fober and ferious fcarch of truth.
hot

Dia.

[altus and Itijuor,

Lat.] Highfpeech; pompous language.

Alte'rnatev ESS. It./, [from alternate.]

A'lterative. aeij. [from eiller.']

Rifmg on high.

Alti'metry. n./. [altimetria, Lat. from
altus and /itT{o».] The art of taking
or

:

Pav'd after him a broaJ and beaten way,
Mi/tc^n,
No other alteraiicn will fatitfy ; nor this neither,
very long, without an utter abolition of all order.

Hooker.

The fooner to efteft what I intended.
Shakejp.
The ftrefs muft be laid upon a majority; with-

To perform alternately.

1.

it

Hodttr.

poflible to be underftood.

Alti'loquence. n.f.

fitude.

Thofe who, in their courfc.

be from worfc to better,
hath in it inconveniencies, and thofc weighty.

2.

[in

-Alte'rnate. a./ [from alternate, adj.
]
That which happens alternately ; vicif-

The aft of altering or changing.
.^Iteration,

although they be intricate, obfcure, and dark;
although they exceed the reach and capacity of our
witsj yea, although in tliis world they be no way

geometry]
are the internal angles made by a line
cutting two parallels, and lying on the

tion, Fr.]
1.

;

one

which has the power of producing
changes in any thing.
And whether the body be alterant or altered,

Brovins Vulgar Errours.

Altho'ugh. conj. [from all and though.
See Though.] Notwithftanding however it may be granted ; however it
may be that.
We all know, that many things are believed,

Pope.

Alte'rnate angles

ing, nourilhing, or foftering of a child.
In Ireland they put their children to fofterers
the rich fell, the meaner fort buying the altirage
of their children ; and che reafon is, becaufe, in
the opinion of the people, foftering has always
been a ftrongcr alliance than blood.
Sir John DaiiUs on Ireland,

a continual motion, without the ahenitj and viciflitude of reft, whereby all other animals con-

Lat.]

[allernu,,

Being by turns; one after another j

tions upon that mighty point, Whether the fettleir.ent of the fucceffion in the Houfe of Hanover

be ttltrrabk, or no ?

adj.

ALT

thnt an animal of the vaftcft
and longtft duration, fliould live in

Completely

I.

;

without reftriftion ; with-

out exception.
It

is

in

vain to fpeak »f planting laws, and
till the people be altogether
fub.

plotting policy,
•'"'^;

Sfenfcr-, State

Ireland.

of
^ ,
We find
not in the world any people that hath

lived altogether without religion.

Ho'ker.
If death and danger are things that really
CanJ
be endured, no man could ever be
obliged
to (uffcr for his confcicnce, or to
die for his re-

not

ligion j

it being altogether as
abfurd to imagine
a man obliged to fuller, as to do
impoflibilities.

ir

South.

i id not aingnhtr iifsfprnve of the manner of
rnwrwearing text* of fcripture through the fty'f
Swift*
of vur Sermon.
This is ri2. Conjunftly ; in Mmpany.

tor knowing thjl 1 am, 1 know thou nt;
Sinte that muft iitcds exia, which can impart.

Lovelinefs ; the power of pleaiing.
No rules can make anubility, our minds and

We'll Quickly hoift ^ke Humphry from his feat.
Sbakefpeare,

jtLVDEL. rt.f. [from <i and /«/»« ; that
is, iLiikntit Jute."]
rubliinir.g pot? ufed in chemiftry,

Without bottoms, and fitted into one another, a&
many as there i« «c3licn for, without luting. At
the bottom of the furnace is a pot that holds the
matter to^e fublitr.ed ; and at the top is i head,
to retain the fl'-wers that rife up.
^irrj?.

A'LUM. *./ [alumen, Lat.]
A kind of mineral fait, of an acid tafle, leaving
the mouth a fcnfe of fweetnefs, accompanied
with a confiderable degree ef aUringeney. The
ancient naturaljfis allow of two forts of a/tm, natural and 'factitious.
I'be natural is found in the
ifl.ind of M.Io, being a kind of whitiih (lore, very
lighf, friable, and porous, and ftreaked with filaments refcmbling filver. England, Italy, ana
Flanders, are the countries where olrnn is principally produced ; and the English rocht-aium is
madt from a b!uiih mineral ftone, in the hills 0/
Vorkfhire and LancaOiire.
Satdariix tlam i» a conipofition of common
^lumy with rofe-water and whites of eggs boiled :ogether, to the confluence of a pallc, and thus
moulded at pleafure. As it cools, it grows hard as

•Sn

a Aofie.

In paradifc, fuft by the tree of \.{e,
Bc^an to bloom j but fuon, fur man*s olTence,
To heav'n remov'd, wlicre fiift it grew, ther*
grow?.
And flow'rs aloft, (hading the fount of life)
And where rbc river o( lilifs, thro' mid(V of
beav'n.
Rolls o'er Elyfun dow'rs her amber (Iream i
With tbele, that never fade, the fpirits eledl
Bind their rtfplendent lockf, inwr-ath'd with

Burnt alum is alum calcined over the fitt!.
ftone, of various coloyrs, moft commonly while,
twrdering on gicen ; it rifes in threads or fibres,
rcfembling thofe of a feather j whence its name
from pluma, a feather.
Cbamhers.
By long beating the white of an egg with a
lump of a/unt, you may bring it, for tiic moil
part, into white curds.
Boy/i.

Alum stone, ti.f. A ftone or calx ufed
forgery ; perhaps alum ciJcineil,
which then becomes corrofive.
in

She gargled with oxycrate, and was in a fewdays cured, by touching it with the vitriol and
tVifeman^

Alu'minous. adj. [from o/««.] Relating
to alum, or conlilling of alum.
Nor do we realbnably conclude, bccaufe, by a
Cold and a.'uminrui moifture, it is able awhile to
lefift the fire, that, from a peculiarity of nature,
Brvivn.
it fubfideih and livcth in it.
The tumour may have other mixture with it,
to make it of a vitriolic or alum'wout nature.
lyiftmani Surgfry,

A'lways. /jJv. [It Is (bmetimes written
ahvay, compounded of all and ivay

;

eallepKja, Sax. iuttaniia, Ital.]
1. Perpetually; throughout all time: op
pofed lo/ometime, or iOtie'ver.
That, which fometimc is expedient, doth not
HsAcr.
tltoayi fo continue.
Pope.
Man never is, but ahogyt {o be bleft.
2. Conftantly ; without variation: oppofed

tojometimes, or to iioiv and then.
He is altvayt gnat, when fome great occtfion
DrytUti.
is prcfented to him.

A. M. ftands for artium magifter, or mafler of arts ; the fecond degree of our
univerfities, which, in fome foreign
countries, is called doftor of philoibphy.

Am. The firft perfon of the verb to he.
[See To Be.]
And God faid unto Mofes, I am that I am :
and he faid, thus (halt thou fay unto the children
vf IIHcl, I ^m bath fent me uato you.
ExoJus, iij. 14.

,

apprclienfions make thatj and fo is our felicity.
Taylcr.

AMADKTTO. n.f. A fort of pear [See
Pear]

fo

called,

the name of him

fays

from

Skiiiner,

who cultivated it.

jfMADOT. n. /. A fort of pear.

MUtont Para,{ift Lift,
[amaranthinus,
Lat.] Relating to amaranths; confiding
of amaranths.
By the ftrcams that ever flow.
By the fragrant winds that blow
beams.

[See

Amaha'nthine.

Pear.]
AMA'iN.<»</f. [from maine, OTmai^r.e, old
Fr. derived from magnus, Lat.] With
vehemence ; with vig.far ; fiercely ; vioIt is ufed of any aftion perlently.
formed with precipitation, whether of
fear or courage, or of any violent ef-

O'er the Elyljan flow'rs ;
In ytllotv meads of afphodel.

Or amarantkim bow'rs.

Great lords, from Ireland am I come awain.
To fignify that rebels tiiere are up. Shakcjfeart,

What amariiudi or acrimony is dejrehendcd in

With hoav'n's affl'.Aing thunuer, anrf befcught
Mi'.UB.
The deep to Iheltcr us ?

choly, or exixrnal malign bodies.
llar^'ty en Canfumptimi,

Ama'rulence. a./,

Sent up amain,
From hence the boar was roas'd, and iprung
amainy
Like light'ning fudden, dn the warriour train.
Beats d'jwn the trees before him, (hakes the

Dry den.

AMA'LGAM. 7». /. [a^a and ya(*iri..]

an accumulation ; a colleftion.
What is nov.r, is but an amaj'rmnt of imaginary
conceptions, prejudices, ungrounded opinions, and
iiilinite impoftures.
Glanvillet Scepjis Seient'ifca*

To AMA'SS. -J. a.
1.

procured by amalgamation. See Amal-

gamation.

When we would tiiink of inliniie fpace, or du.

The induration of the amalgam appears to pro-

ration, we, at

ceed from the ne.v texture refulting from the coalition of the mingled ingredients, that make op the

beautiful are,
2.

I.

Lochu

In a figurative fenfe, to add one thing
to another, generally with fome ihare
of reproach, cither of cagemefs or inrelatione, muft err in fome,
and be unbelievcd in many. Brif-atn^s Vul. Krrours,
Do not content yourfclves with mere words, left
your improvements only amaft a heap of unintelH'^atti^i Smpr, of the Mind*
ligible phrafes.
'Ihe life of Homer has been written, by amajjing
and
hiiit£ the writcn could
of all the traditions
meet with, in order to tell a ftory of him to the

:

Pope,

world.

Ama'ss. »./. [amaj, Fr.] An iUTemblage;
an accumulation.
This pillar is but a medley or amafi of all the
precedent ornraments, making a new kind by
fyolton.

(health.

To Am a't e. v, a. [from «and mate.'] Sec

Mate.]

A perfon

who writes what another ditlates.
A'm a r a n t h. n.f. \amarnKthus, Lat. from
« and liotfiita.] I'he name of a plant.
Among the many fpecies, the moft

1.

To accompany; to entertain as a companion.

It is

now obfolcte.

A lovely bevy of f>ir ladies fate.
Courted of mai:y a jolly paramour.
The which did them in modcft wife ornate^
And each one fought his lady to aerate.

The tree amaranlb.

The long pendulous amttranth, with

reddifli coloured feeds, commonly called

Lo've lies a bleeding.
2. In poetry, it is fometimcs an imaginary

make fome very

difcrimination.
Such as ar.aji all

mating metals.

MIANVErNSIS. n.f. [Lnt.]

uf>ially

perhaps

duration.

2.

.

emplovment.

ftep,

of millions of ages, or
miles, which pofiibly we- double and multiply
feveial times.
All that we^hus amajs together
in our thoughts, is pofitive, and the alTcmblage
of a great number of pofitive ideas of fpace or

the gilders.
A M A L c A M a't I o N ft. /. [ from dfia/gamnte.] The adl or pratVice of amalga-

Amakda'tion, «./ [from amatrJo, Lm.]
The aft of fending on a meliage, or

firft

large idea, as

Bsyle.

Amal^i:nwti<.n is the mixlrg of mercury with any
The manner is thus in gold, the
of the metals.
Take fix ports of mercury,
rell arc anfwerable
mix them hot in a crucible, and pjur them to one
p«rt of gold made red hot in another truc.ble ; ftir
thefe well that thi-y may incorporate} then calltii;
Bacan.
mafs into cold water, and walh it.

[amaj/ir, Fr.]

To colleft together in one heap or mafs.
I'he rich man is not blamed, as having made
ufe of any unlawful means to amaj't richer, as
luving thriven by fraud and injullice.
Aiterhury^i Serm^i,

AMJ'LGJMJ. 5 The mixture of metals

To Ama'lcamate. <v. a. [from amalgam.] To unite metals with quickfilver,
which may be prattifed upon all meThe ufe
tals, except iron and copper.
of this operation is, to make the meGold is, by this
tal loft and ductile.
method, drawn over other materials by

i>/V?.

Ama'sment. k. /. [from ama/s.'] A heap;

The foreft echoes to the crackling found,
Shout the fierce youth, and clamours ring around.

[amarifudo, Lat.]

Bittemefs.

ground j

amalgam.

commixture of melan-

ch?ter, it acquiies from a

!

Mihon.

P^e,
Lat.]

[amaritado,

». /.

Bittemefs.

What when we fit J iaain, purfu'd, and ftruck
1 he bills, to their fupply.
Vapour and exhalation, dulk and moilV,

adj.

By thofe happy fouls that dwell

Ama'ritude.

fort.

P/uTnoJi QT pjume afum is a fort of faline mineral

a/amfioties,

flower, foppofed, according to its naa»e«
never to tade.
Immortal aaaranih I a 6owcr which once

;

Amabi'litv. ». f. [from amabills, Lat]

Coi.fir-of Sonxrret) join jrou wifli mr.

And aiibgeibtr with tlii: diilce of Stii^JllCy

arc

Come thM), my fouls I call thee by that rime,

Th ni bufy thing, from whence 1 know 1 am

Prior.

ther all tagftker.

Midch

A MA

A M A

A M

Fairy Sluetn.
2.

To terrify

to ftrike with horrour.

In

derived from the
French matter, to crufli or fubJue.

oM

this fcnfe,

;

it

^

is

Amato'r-

A MA
AMATo'nCULIST.H.y^ [o(Wij/9rcaA//,Lat. ]

A little infignificant lover

Infernal furies, with their cltaius unty'd.

rairy S^uen.

Di^l.

to aiFeftion.

But look

O

ting to love ; eaufing love.

Ume tiling whether one raviihj-ucretia

by forcr, as Tarquln, or \j amatory pations not
only allure her, but neccifuate her to fatisfy his
lull, and iacUne her cfTc^lually, and draw her in-

2.

evitably, to follow him fpontanejufly.

Brjinhitm ugalnjl llohbes,

of the inner parts, occafioning the reprefentations of flies and dull floating
which appearances are
before the eyes
the parts of the retina hid and cotnpreflcd by the blood-veflels being too
:

fo that,

in

many of

parts, all fenfe is loft, and therefore

its

no images can be painted upon them ;
whereby the eyes, continually rolling

many

of objefts falling
focceflively upon them, are obfcure. The
cure of this depends upon a removal of
round,

parts

the ftagnations in the extremities of
thofe arteries which run over the bottom
'
of the eye.
^incy.

ToAMA'ZE. V. a. [from a and maK.e,
To confufe with terrour.

To

Conceit in weaken bodiet ftiCii^cK »unl;s.
S^keffeart.

rivations lead to write ambajfadour, riot

Extreme dejedlion.
He ended, ani his words imprcflion left
Of much amazemsnt to th' infernal crew,

manner from one fovereign power to an-

3.

^r:jxf and charm mankind.

But living virtue, all atchie^ements paft,
Meets tn\y ftitl to grapple with at laft.

and fuppofed to rcprefent the
power from which he is fent. T-he f er-

That cannot chnofe but amaze him. If he be
not amazed, he w-ll he mocked j if he be amazed,
he will every way be mocked.
Shaktf; care

Ama'ze. n.f. [from the verb a/.vaz^.] Aconfufion, either of fear

And filis alt mouths with envy or with praife,
And ail her jealous monarchs with amaze, Miitcr.
Meantime the Trojan cuts his wat'ry way,
Fii'd on h'» voyage, through the curling fca

Dryden,

one coufiJcrs what incredible

Addifonm

Amba'ssadress. n.f. [ambaJadria,Fr,J
1. The lady of an ambaffadour.

wonderfully.
If we arife to the world of fpirits, our know-

2.

AMAZON, n.f. [a and ^^.'\ The Amnzons were a race of women famous

(prA amazeJ/y, and it becomes

;

a virago.

fwers ; foas the formal part o^ r^€\t amhaJJ'age m\^t
well warrant their further ftay.

Sljate/pearr,

n.f. [Lat.] A circuit of
words a circumlocutory form of fpeech
a multiplicity of words ; an indireft
manner of expreflion.

Shalefpeare,
jtbeth thu; amazedly f
Cun,! , fi Kri,, cheer we up his (prights.
Shalefp,
'

I

Ama'zedness. n,/. [from amax.ed,] The
ftate of bfiing amazed; aftonilhment;
wonder ; confjfion.
opining of the farthel, heard

the old Ihepherd deliver the manner how he fouiid

whereupon, after a little ameztdnejt, we were

o-nminJed out of the chamb:^^.
Hhakej!>.
Ama'zement. »./ [from amaxt,]
I. Such a confufed apprehenfion as docs
not leave realon its full force ; extreme
all

fear ; horrour.

With ftony cye<, and hcartlefs hollow hue.

.

the lower writers formed ambar um.^

A

yellow tranlparcnt fubftance of a gummous
or bituminous confidence, but a refinous tafte,
and a fmell like oil of turpentine; chiefly found
in the Baltick fea, along the coails of PrufSa.

;

I'hcy gave thole complex id?« names, that they
rccrrd

and difcourfe of
things they were daily convcrfatit iu, without long
amhagij and circumlocutions ; Ani that the things
they were Cjntiiiualty to give and receive information about, might be the ealierand quicker underLocke.

Cir-

-^mbassa'de. a./. \aml>affade, Yr.'\ Embafly
charafter or bufinefs of an ambalfador a word not now in ufe.
When you difgracrd me in my amhajfade.
Sbakefp.

AMB.rSSADOUR. n.f. [ambaftideur Fr.
,

tmbaxador. Span.
It is written differently, as it is fuppofcd to come from
the French or Spaaiilj language ; and
the original dirivatio.T being uncertain,
it is

not eafy to fettle its o'tliography.

Some derive it from the Hebrew nu^a,
to tell, and ^tt>aa, a m'ffcngcr; others from

ambaSlus, which, iu the old Gaulifti,
fignified a. fervant ; whence ambnfcia,
in low Latin, is found to lignifyytm/Vf,
and ambn/iiator, a fefvant ; others deduce it fiom ambacht, in old Teutoiiick,
figiiilying a govermiunt,
and Junius
mentions a pollibility of its delceac from

Bacon,

A'MBER. n.f. [from ambar, Arab, whence

AMBA'GES.

eafily

Rowe,
ambaffadour, '\

An embafly ; the bu£iiefs of an ambaffadour.
Maximilian entertained them with dilatory an-

their breafts, to ufc their weapons better.

Then I deg-ajed you from Icing king.

My rurv', and my meflage.

He arifwer'd nought at all; but adding new
Fear to his firft amazemtrt, (faring wide,

A'mbassage, n.f, [from

valour, who inhabited Caucafus ;
they are fo called from their cutting oft'
for

And fi^hti-ll with the fword.

In ludiciious language, a woman fent
on a meffage.
Well, my ambajfadrefi
Come you to menace wjr, and loud detiance ?
Or does the peaceful olive grace your brow ?

lVatii'% Log!ck.

:

fion.

it i

Dryden.

Oft have their bl.tck amhajfjdours appeared
Loadcn with gifts, a'ld fill'd the courts of Zaraa.

Ama'zincly. ad'u. [from amazing.'\ To
a degree that may excite aftonilhment

;

fufedly ; with amazement ; with confu-

at the

Shakejpeofe,

multitudes it abounded with during the rcij^ns of
the R.>oian emperours.
Addtfcn.

toanfwer.

of lefs dignity.
Gi\e firll admittance to th' amhajfadsurs,

Raised by thefe hopes, I fent no news before.
Nor alk'd your leave, nor did your faith implore
But come without a pledge, my own ambaJJ'adcur.

It is an amassing thing to lee the prefent dofola-

cumlocutory ; perplexed ; tedious. Dia.

Ama'zedlv. fl^^y. [from amazei/.] Con-

was by

and is diftinguifhed from an envoy, who
is

allonii'hing.

tipn ':ii itaiy, when

In

higheft rank refiding in another country,

A3iA^^'T.ifiC. partkiptal ad}, [from amax,e.\

Wonderful;

from common perfons.

the juridical and formal language, it
fignifies particularly a miniller of the

^

Amba'gioos. adj. {from ambagts.]

Seea on the Punick Ihore the mounting bUae.

I

dicroufly,

JViiUcr.

ftood.
;

Then carting back his eyes, with dire amaze,

'.',-.

Ambujfadour is, in popular language,
name of a raeffengcr from
a fovereign power, and fometimes, luthe general

the Beautiful Gate of the temple, and they were
fiUcd with wonJcr and amazement at that which

might the more

Fsirfai, whofe name in arms thro' Europe rings,

'.'>

fon of an ambaffadour is inviolable.

4. Aftonifliment ; wonder at an unexpefted event.
They knew that it was he which fat for alms at

had happened unto him.

A peribn fent in a public

other,

Stay, ftay thy hands, thou art an amazin.

Smith,

To put into perplexity.

I

em^aJ/adour.'\

Milton,
At thelc fad lidirgs,
Height of admiration.
Had you, fome ages paft, this race of glory
Run, With amaz'ment we (houlJ read your ftory ;

A warlike woman

virtues,

your courage, truth, yoor innocence and love,

ftonilhmeut ;
or wonder.-

ftep between her and her fighting foul 1

difficulties belonging to it for thewifeft philofopher

Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee,
and their kings (hall be horribly afraid for thee,
when I /hall brandjih my fword before them, and
they ihall tremble at every moment ; every man
for his own life in the day of the fall.
Ezdiil.
put into confufion with wonder.
2.
Go, heav'nly pair, and with your dazzling

3.

amazimenf on thy mother fits j

ledge of them muft be amazingly imperfect, whe,i
there is not the leaft grain of fand but has too many

perplexity.]
1.

!

Diftrai5led and lurpris'd with deep difmay

jfM^fURO'SIS. n.f. [iuavfiu!.] A dimnefs
of fight, not from any vifible defefl in
the eye, but from feme diilemperatare

much dillended ;

«»a?:i(»u ; and others from am for ad,
and bnffus, />xf, as fuppofing the aft of
fending an ambaffadour, to be in fome
Ail thefe dsfort ag aft oi fubmiflion.

Aitonifli'd ftood, as one that had efpy'J

a pretender

;

A'viATORsr. adj. [amatorius, Lat.] RelaIl is the

A M B

A M B

,

Some naturalifts refer it to the vegetable, others
to tlie mineral, and fomtf even to the animal king-

dom. Pliny defcribes it as a rcfinous juici;, oozing
from aged pines and
into the fc.i.

firs,

and

dil'cli.irgod

thence

He adds, tl;at it wab hence the an-

c'enti gave it the dcnominatio:r of fuccinum, from

Some have imagined it a concretioa
of tile tears o^" birds j others, the urine of a b'aft ;
others, the fcum of the lake (.ephifis, near the
.A.tlanticU ; others, a congelation fjrmeJ in tha
Baltick, and in fome fountains, where it is fo\inJ
fwimniing like pitch. Others fuppofcit a bitumen
trickling into the fea from fubterraneous fources ;
but this opinion is alfo difcarded, as good amber
having been found in digging at a confiderable diftancc from the fea, as that gathered on the coaft.
Boerliaave ranks it with cainphire, which is aeon*
cie:e oil of aromatic plants, elaborated by heat into
Within fome pieces of amber
a cryftalline form.
have been found laaves and infcd^H included
indicitc,
eith;r cht the amberyas
which fcemj to
originally in a fluid ftate, ur that, having been exti>
the
it
was
fjftcneJ, and rendered
fed
fun,
p
fufceptible of the leaves and infefls. Amber, when
rubbed, draws or attracts bodies to it, and„ by
friction, is brought to yield light pri:tty copioully
in the dark.
Some diftinguirti amber into yellow,
white, brOA-n, and black: but the two latter ar«
fuppofed to be of a different nature and denomination ; the one called };t, the other ambergrit,
I'revmx. Chambers,
Liquid amber is 3 kinv] of native baUam or rcfin;
Rkc turpentine ; cleaTj reJJiih, or yellowifli ; of a

yot'CMi, juice*

K.

a

pleafaa^

It flows
fleifant f>n<n, klmoft like ambergris.
from an incifioo made In the bark oT a fine large

tret in

A M B

A M B

A M B
New Spain, called by the natives cftfel.
Chemttn.
If light penetrateth any dear body, that is coloured, as piintcd glafs, amber, wjter, and the
like, it gives the light the colour of its medium.

cither

party

difputes.

This

[from

amii-

Ambidexte'rity.

a./,

dexier.1
1.

The quality of being able equally to
ufe both hands.

2.

AMBl'GUOt;sLY. ttd'V. [from ambiguous.
doubtfully ;
In an ambiguous manner
"^

Double dealing.

;

.Ambide'xtrous. ad/, [itom ambidexter.

But poplar wreathes around his temples Spread,
And tears of amber trickled down his head.

Lat.]

Having, with equal facility, the ufe of

1.

either hand.

The fpoils of elephants the roofs inlay,
And fludded amber darts a golden ray.
Pjpt,
A'm B E R adj. Confifting of amber.
With fcart's, and fans, and double charge of

Others, not conGdering amhidextrcut and lefthanded men, do totally fubmit unto the efficacy

.

With ambir bracelets, beads, and all this knar'ry.

lour and tranfparency.
All your clear ambcr-drinh is fiat.

Sacon,

rounding

adj.

\ambiens, Lat.]

encompaffing ; invefting.

;

fmall

evergreen

leaves, which

2.

A man who is equally ready to ad on

of fomethlng higher than is polfefled at
prefent.]

The defire of preferment or honour.
Who would think, without having fuch a mind

1

that fo great goodncfs could not
have bound gratefulnefs ? and fo high advancement
not have fat:&fied his arjviticn ?
SiJnry^
as Antiphilus,

The defile of any thing great or excel-

2.

lent.

The quickening power would be,and (b would reft \
The fenfe would not be only, but be well
i

But wit's ambition long,;th to the beft.
For it dcfires in eiidlcfs blifs to dwell.
Davits^
Urge them, while their fouls
Are capable of this ambition j
Left zeal, now melted by the windy breath

When ftraiten'd in your time, and fervants few,
Where firft and fecond courfe, and your defert.
All iu one fingle table have their part.
King's Art of Cookery.

Of foft petitions, pity, and remorfe,
Cool and congeal again to what it was.

[from ambiguous.]

Doubtfulnefs of meaning ; uncertainty
of fignification ; double meaning.
With ambiguities they often entangle thcmfelves,
not marking what dotli agree to the word of God

3.

Hisker.

We can clear thefe ambiguities,
And know their fpring,'Jieir head, their true defcent.
Sbakefpeare.

The words are of iingte fignification, without
any ambigu.ty \ and therefore I Ihall net trouble you,
by ftraining for an interpretation, where there is
no difficulty ; or didinftion, where there is no difSouth.

1

;

;

Shakrfp.

with to before a verb, and of
before a noun.
1 had a very early ambition to recommend myfelf
It is ufed

to your Lordfhip's patronage.

Addijon.

There was an ambition of wit, and an affeflation

in itfclf, and what in regard of outward accidents.

of gayety.

Ambi'tious. adj.
i.

Pope's Preface to his Letters.

[ambitioj'us, Lat.]

Seized or touthcd with ambition ; defirous of advancement ; eager of honours ; afpiring. It has the panicle of
before the objed of ambition, if a noun ;
to, if expreffed by a verb.

We fccm ambitioui God's whole work

t'

undo.

Dmia,
of

The neighb'ring monarchs, by thy beauty led,
Contend in crowds, ambitious c/tliy bed
Tlie world is at thy choice, except but one,
Except but him thou canft not choofe alone.
:

uncertain fignification.

as heath,

Rodiginus, unJert.',king to give a reafon ofarrbidixlin, and left-handed men, deliveieth a third
opinion.
Brmvn.

Grt'w's Muf^tim,

Ambi'tion. n.f. [ambiiio, Lat. the defire

You^d richly then compofc an amligu j

and, being
ruifed between the fingers, emit a very
fragrant odour.
Miller.
JMBIDE'XTER. n.f. [Lat.]
1. A man who has equally the ufe of both
his hands.
clofe

In meafuring by the ambit, it is long or round about
a foot and two inches ; its bafis an inch over.

ther.

ference.

The com

The tulk of a wild boar winds al|out aUnoft into
a perfcft ring or hoop ; only it is i little writhen.

ment, confifting not of regular courfes,
but of a medley of difhes fet on toge-

n.f.

'LaX.'\

that encompafles any thing.

Bmi/y.

A'MBIGU. n.f. [French.] An entertain-

Ambigu'ity.

,

[ambitus

pafs or circuit of any thing ; the line

AuBER tree. n.f. [frutex Africanu< am- AMBl'GUOUS. adj. [ambiguus, Lat.]
iram/pirans.'] A flirub, whofe beauty is
Doubtful having two meanings
as

A'mbit. n.f.

The ambient aether is too liquid and empty, to
impel horizontally with that prodigious celerity.

it.

Dicl.

ing.

Prior.

dry from Martinico and Egypt.
Chambers.

its

expreffions ; difcourfe of doubtful mean-

Sur-

and not on that of ^e amiiinl medium.
Newton's Opiicks.
Around him dance the rofy hours,
And damalking the ground with fl.w'rs.
With ambient fweets perfume the morn.
Fenton to LcrJ Gizver.
Illuftrious virtues, who by turns have rofe
happy
laws
her
empire
to fuftain,
With
And with full pow'r alTert her ambient main.

or mujk feed, refembles
millet, is of a bitterifti tafte, and brought

frow

Di^.

iul expreffions.

This which yields or fills

Amber seed,

in

quor, Lat.] Ufing ambiguous and doubt-

Milton.
All fp:icc, the ambient air wide interfus'd.
The thicknefs of a plate requifite to produce any
colour, depends only on the denfity of the plate,

excrement of a bird, which, being melted by the
heat of the fun, and walhed off the (hore by the
waves, is fwallowed by whales, who return it back
in the condition we find it. Others conclude it to
be the excrement of a cetaceous fifli, becaufe fomctimes found in the inteAines of fuch animals. But
we have no inllance of any excrement capable of
melting like wax J and if it were theexcremcnt of a
whale, it Ihnuld rather be found where thefe animals abound, as about Greenland. Others take it
for a kind of wax or gum, which diftils from trees,
and drops into the fca, where it congeals. Many
of the orientals imagine it fprings out of the fea, as
aaphtha does out of fome fountains. Others alfert

Others
maintain, that ambergr'.s is made from the honeycombs, which fall into the fea from the rocks,
where the bees had formed their nefts; feveral persons having feen pieces that were half ambergris^
and half plain honey-comb j aiid others have found
large pieces of ambergris, in which, when broke,
boney-comb, and honey too, were found in the
middle. Neumann abfolutely denies it to be an
animal fubflance, as not yielding, in the analy^s,
any one animal principle. Heconcludes it to be a
bitumen ilTuing out of the earth into the fca ; at
fitrt of a vifcous confiftence, but haidening, by its
mixture with fome liquid naphtha, into the form in
which we find it.
Trtvoux* Cbamberu
Bermudas wall'd with rocks, who does not know
That happy idand, where huge lemons grow.
Where fhintng pearl, coral, and many a poun<l,
On the rich Ihore, of ambergris is found ? JValier,

Dtcl.

AMBi'toq^uous. adj. [from ambo and lo-

Di3.

dextrous.

commonly of a greyKh or alh colour, ufcd both as a
perfume and a cordial. Some imagine it to be the

into

Talk of ambiguous or doubtful

Ambide'xtrousness. n.f. [from ^jotoV- Ambi'loc^y. n.f. [ambihquium, Lat.]
dexirous.\ The quality of being ambiThe ufe of doubtful and indeterminate

A fragrant drug, that melts alraod like wax,

and difcharge themfclvei

Xoy©-.]

both

VEflrange.

A'MBiEtir.

it to be a vegetable produilion, ilTuing out of the
root of a tree, whofe roots always (hoot to%vards the

nification.

Ambi'locy. n.f. [from am^o, Lat. and
fignification.

dealings.

A'mbercris. B.y; [ from amher and gris,
or grey ; that is, grey a>»ier.'\

on

praftifing

/Efop condemns the double praflices of trimmers, and all falfc, (huffllng, and ainbidextroui

A'm ber-drink. n./. Drink of the colour

fea,

Double dealing ;

uncertainly ; with double meaning.
Ambi'guousness. n.f. [from ambiguous.'\
The quality of being ambiguous; uncertainty of meaning ; duplicity of fig-

fides.

Siaieffeare.

of amber, or referabling amber in co-

Brown.

of the liver.
2.

brav'ry.

In thefe myilerious words his mind exprefl
Some truths reveal'd, in terms involv'd the reft.
Drydcn,
Silence at length the gay Antinout broke,
Conllraln'd a (mile, and ^msamiigucui fpokc.
Pope.

fenfe is ludicrous.

Peacbam.

No interwoven reeds a girland made,
To hide his brows within the vulgjr fliade

in

fide,

Th' mUgutiii god, who rul'd hertab'rmg brtaft,

But what have been thy anfwers, what but dark,
Ambiguous, and with daubtful fenle deluding ?
Milton.

Some exprclfions in the covenant were ambiguous,
and were left fo j becaufe the perfons who framed
Ciarerdon.
them were not all of one mind.
2.

Applied to perfons ufing doubtful exIt is applied to exprefficns,
or thofe that ufe them, not to a dubious
or fufpcnded ftate of mind.
preffions.

Drydcn.

You have been pleafcd not to fuffer an old man
to go difcontented out of the world, for

want of

that pruteiiion, of which he had been fo lung eim-

Drydm,

biticus.

Trajan, a prince ambitious of glory, defccndcd
to the mouths of the Tigris and Euphrates, and
went upon the ocean, where, feeing a vcllcl tradthe Indies, he had thoughts of outdoing
, ing to
Alexander.
Aibuthnot on Caii:i.

2,

Eager

Eager to grow bigger J

2.

afpiring.

2.

h«vf lecn
Th' amiiticU! ocean fwell, and rage, and foam,
To be exalttd with the thrcat'ning clouds.
I

an ambitious manner ;
of advancement or preference.
With fuch glad hcjrts did our dtfpairing men

The quality of being ambitious.
A'mbitude. n.f. [ami/0, Lat.] ComDi<^.

To move upon an amble. Sec Amble.
It is g5od, on fonie occafions, to enjoy as much
;'

of the prefcnt, as will not er.danger our futuriiv
and to provide ourfelves of the virtuofo's fjdJle,
which will be fure to amble, when the world i=
Drydtn.
upon the hardeft tnt.

To move eafily, without hard fliocks,
or (baking.

Who aml-la time withal?— A rich man that
hath not the gout ; for he lives merrily, becaufc
he feels no pain } knowing no burthen of heavy
tedious penury : him time airlki withal.
Skakijfenre^t j^i you like it.
In a ludicrous fenfe, to move with fubmiffion, and by direftion ; as a horfe
that ambles ufes a gait not natural.

A laughing, toying, wheeiling, whimpering (he.

A'mbry.

n. /.

The place where the almoner lives, or
where alms are diftrlbuted.
2. The place where plate, and utenfils for
houftkeeping, are kept; a!fo a cupboard for keeping cold viftuals a word
flill ufed in the northern counties, and

ace.]

n. /.

A double ace

had rather be in
I
amis ace for my life.

has

been

taught to

amble ;

a

1

JMBRO'SIA. n.f. [tt^Z^e,c\<t.]
I.

Sbakefp.

the dice, fuppofing the ligurc of tlie table, and of
the dice themfelves, fuppofing the meafurc of
foice applied, and fuppoHng ail other things which
did concur to the production of jhat talt, to be
the very fame they wen!, there is no doubt but
in this cafe the call is necelfary.

;

:

a

word now

Like as a wily fox, that having fpied

Where on a funny bank the lambs do play,

A'mbulatory. adj. [ambulo, Lat.]
That which his the power or faculty
of walking.
The gradient, cr ambulatory, are fuch as require fomc bafis, or bottom, to up^hold them in
their motions : luch were thofe felf-moving ftatues, which, unlefs violently detained, would ol
JVilkim^i Matb. Ma^uk.

That which happens during a paflage
or walk.

Full clofcly creeping by the hinder fjdc.
Lies in ambiijhment of his hoped prey.
Spcrtfer,-

Ambu'st. adj.

tVottan.

travels.

Moveable; as, an ambulatory court; a
court which removes from place to place
for the exercife of its jurifdiftion.

A

bloody wart on any
n.f.
part of a horfe's body.
[embufcade, ^T. See

Ambvsh.] a private flation in which
men lie to furprife others ambufh.
;

The imaginary food of the gods, from
which every thing eminently pleafing
to the fmell or tafte- is called am-

Then waving high her torch, the fignal made,
Which rous'd the Grecians from their ambujcade.

Irofta.

fancy that gouts, fevers, and lethargies, with in-

Drydett.

When 1 behold a fafhionable table fct out,

1

[ambujius, Lat.]

Kurnt.;
Diff,

fcalded.

Ambu'stion. n.f,

[ambuflio, Lat.]

A

burn ; a fcald.
A'm EL. n.f. [email, Fr.] The matter
with which the variegated works are
overlaid, which we call enamelled.

The matcrijls
tin,

He was Cent to conduce hither the princcfs, of
whom his majefty had an ambulatory view in his

A'm BURY.

Ambufh ; furprife

not ufed.

Briivni l^ulgar Erreurs.

3.

To be '1 axallan enemies I guefs.

fee.]

fitudes than from cmbvlancn,

themfelves run away.

ambulh ; lying in wait.
Thick as the fliadcs, there ilfue fwarming bands
Of amhtijiyd men, whom, by their arms and drefs,
in

A'mbushment. n.f. [domambufi which

[ambulatio, Lat.]

From the occult and invifible motion of the
mufclcs, in ft.ition, proceed more offenlivc laf-

2.

Rkbard II.

A'mbush ED. adj. [from ambujh.] Placed

Orydeni Indian Emperor,

Bramhcm agehji Hohhci.

A'm B L N LY.aJv. [from ambling.'] With Ambusca'de. n.f.
an ambling movement.

wait.

ace-, though it partake
more of contingency than of freedom. Suppofing
the pofiiure of the party's hand who did throw

1.

The ftate of being polled privately, in
order to furprife ; the ^ate of lying in

4. Perhaps the perfons placed in private
nations.
For you, my noble lord of Lancafler,
Once did I lay an omhujh for your life.

inftancc of carting amis

The aft of walking.

pacer.

3.

Stakiffeure's jtlCi toell that end! tvell.
This will be yet clearer, by confidering his own

as, on

that

when

choice, than throw

this

Ambui.a'tion, n.f.

A horfe

called

fo

two dice turn up the ace.

Sbaktffearr,

A'mbler. n.f. [from To amble.']

;

The aft of furprifing another, by lying in wait, or lodging in a fecret poll.
Nor Ihall we need.
With dangerous ex.pedicion, to invade
Heav'n, whofe high walls fear no aflault or ficgr.
Or ambujh from the ifeep. Milton 1 Pauidifc Lojl,

[from ambo, Lat. and

A'uble. n.f. [from To amlle.'\ A pace
or movement in which the horfe re-

tue firft pace of young colts, but when
they have ftrength to trot, they quit it.
There is no amble in the manage ;
riding-maftcrs allow only of walk, trot,
and gallop. A horfe may be put from
a trot to a gallop without flopping
but he cannot be put from an amble to
a gallop without a ftop, which interrupts the juftnefs of the manage.
Farrier's Dia.

2.

in Scotland.

Ambs ace.

To ftrut before a wanton emilmg nympli.

the far fide, he removes his fore and
hinder leg of the fame fide at one time,
whilft the legs on the near fide ftand
ftill ; and, when the far legs are upon
'the ground, the near fide removes the
rfore leg and hinder leg, and the legs
" on the far fide ftand ftill.
An amble is

lans yield.

Bold in dofe cimbufi, bafe in open field.
Dryden^% hidum Emperor,

:

am rudely ftampt, and want love's majefty,

;

tending to draw the Englifli further into their
Hayivard*
enibuj]^, turned away at an eafy pace.
Charge", charge, their ground the faint Taxal.

[a word corrupted from

1

Rcwf's Jaie Shcre.

moves both his legs on one fide

Thi: refidue retired deceitfully towards the place
of their amhujh, whence ifl'ued mere. Then the
But the enemy, inearl maintained the fight.

almonry.]

To walk daintily and affcftedly.
I

placed, in order to fall unexpededly
ujxm an enemy.

Sweet to the world, and grateful to the fjaes.

Shall make him amtle on a goHip's meflage,
And take the dlftaffwith a hand as patient,

4.

a wood ;
woods, ambufties being commonly laid
under the concealment of thick forefts.]
1. The poft where foldiers or alTailins are

deleg-

delicious ;

All heaven, and in the blelTcd Ipints cltft
Miltor.
Senfe of new joy ineffable dif^'ui'd.
The gifts of heaven my following fong purfue,,
Dryder:.
Aerial honey and timira^fj/ dews.
To fartheft ihoies th' amircjia! fpirit flies.

Ambi'tiousness. n.f. [from ambitious.'\

Lat.]

[ambufche, Fr. from bois,
whence embujcher, to hide in

Thus while God fpake, amhrrjial fragrance fill'd

—

To A'MBLE. v. n. [ambler, Fr. ambulo,

Sbakefp, Romeo and 'Juliet,

A'mbush. p. f.

able.

Here Flecknoe, as a place to fame well known,
Dryden.
's throne.
Amhiihujly defign'J his Sh

As e'er d'd Hercules.

Sometimes flie driveth o'er a foldier's neck,

And then he dreami of cutting foreign throats,
Of breaches, timbufcadoiS, Spanilh blades,
Of licalths five fathom de,'p.

MV.'cr.

fragrant ;

brofia ;

Dryden.

[embofcada. Span.]

A private poll, in order to furprife an

The fpecles arc, I. The marine or fea gmbrcjia.
3. The talleft

That with 6rft eyes did diftant fafcty meet.

amlujcaie among th*

enemy.

2. Taller unfavoury fea ambrojia.

Canada amhrofia,

in

jldt'Mon.

Ambusca'do. n.f.

Ajibro'sial. adj. [from ambrofia.] Partaking of the nature or qualities of am-

Sjlute th' appearance of the prince's fleet j
And each ambi-hvfly would claim the ken,

3.

di flies.

containing one oblong feed in each.

with eagernefs

2.

It has male fl ifculous flowers, produced on fepa-

male flowers, is ihapcd like a club, and is prickly,

Ambi'tiously. ad-v. [ from ambitious. ] I

pafs ; circuit ; circumference.

The name of a plant.

numerable diftempers, lie

rate pavts of the fame plant from the fruit, having
no vifible petals j the fruit which fucceeds the fe-

Sbahfpeare.

1.

A M E

A M B

A M B

of glafs melted with calcined
This white

compolc an undiaphanous body.

amel is the b.ifis of all thofe fine concretes tliat
goldfmiths and artificers employ in the curious
Boyle on Colours,art of enamelling.

AMKN. adv. [a word of which the original has given rife to many conjeftures.
Scaliger writes, that it is Arabick ; p. J
the Rabbles make it the compound of
the initials of three words, fignifying
the Lord is a faithful king ; but the word

feems merely Hebrew, \ni>., which, with
along train of derivatives, fignifies firmA term ufed
nefs, certainty, fidelity.]
in devotions, by which, at the end of a
prayer, we mean, Jo be it ; at the end
of a creed, yo /'/ is.
8.

One

AME
One cried, God

bUrs lu

A M E
jfnM /

and,

!

Behold

die

!

famine

A M I

and plague, tribuUtioa

They (ball atr.eret him in an hundjcd ihekeis of
filver, and give them onto the father of the damfel, becaufe he hath brought up an evil name upon

ind

angMiih, are fent as fcotirget for ammdment.

oti.er,

A« they had I'ecn me with thefe hangman's hands.

a £fdras,xv], 19.
Though a ferious purpoie of amendment, and
true afls of contrition, before the habit, may be

J.i/lening their I'car, I could not fay ylmen,

When they did fay Cod blefs us.

Shakcfp, Mach.

God of Ifi'ael, from ererlafting and to everlafling, Amin and amm.
BIclTtd be the Lord

accepted by God ; yet there is no fure judgment
whether this purpofe be ferious, or thefe afls
true iCtt of contrition.

Pfaltn xli. 13.

Ame'nablb. adj. [<ime/nah!c, Fr. amencr
qutlqu'un, in the French courts, fignifies, to oblige one to appear to anCwer
a chaige exhibited againft liim.]
Rcfpoiifible ; fubjett fo as to be? liable to

[emendatio, Lat.] It
law, the correftion of an
errour committed in a procefs, and
cfpied before or after judgment ; and
foraetimes after the party's feeking ad-

Sir Jdhr. Dank: on Ireland.

law.

fcts

mien ;

behaviour ;

words

feems to be accidentally corrupted.]
compenfatioa ; atonement.

niiliment of an offender, who (lands at
the mercy of the king, or other lord itt
his court.

Your compcnfation mal:cs amends.

Sjxvfer,

Thets I, a pris'ner chain'd, fcarce freely draw

to

The bre.ith of

Mutin.

11 our fouls be

immortal, this make.'; abundant
amends and compcnfation for the frailties of life,
and fufterings of this ftate.
TiiUi/ai.

To reflore paffagcs in writers, which
the copiers are iiuppofed to have de-

It

praved ; to recover the true reading.
to imnot denies that the
thing is well already, but to amend implies fomething wrong.

unlefs

amend differs from to impro've ;

Atuation.

Statefp. Machtth.

bed are the.blacke.l or deepsil -violet
othws are
aimoft quite white, and fonr.e few tinftured with
yellow.
1'he amctiyj} is not extrerociy Iiarvl, but
ealy to be engravtd upon, and is next in value to
the emerald.
Satmy. Chixmberu
;

agreeablenefs of

was .a feat of amenity

Some ftones approached th.» granule complexion; and feveral nearly refembled tiie aineth:j!.

Bretvn.

The pine tree hath amentaceous flowers or kat-

[amendemenf,'Br.'\

kin<.

IVoyd-wardt

A'methyst

(in heraldry] fignifies the
fame colour in a nobleman's coat, that
purj>ure does in a gentleman's.

Miller.

To AME'RCE. a;, a. [amercier, Fr. o(phccf.nuit ij.it a/xipsTf, feems to give the ori-

Amethy'stine. adj.

[from amclbyfi.]
Referabling an amethyll in colour.

ginal.]
1.

To punifh with a pecuniary penalty

A kind of ameihyfiine flint, not compofed of

;

to exadl a fine ; to inflift a forfeiture.
It is a word originally juridical, but

air.tndments ; nsthing that cait be reprehended.

adopted by other writers, and is ufed by
Spenfer of punilhments in general.

Ray on the Creation.
TItete are many natural defriVs in the undcrftanding, xapabic of cmftidKent, which arc over-

cryftals or grains, but one entire malTy flronc.

A'MIABLE. adj.
1.

Where every one that mifiech ttien her make.
Shall be by him amerc'd with penance due.

Ltcki.

Reformation of life.

dead'Oioiild'have raJfed tJicin up preachers.

Uuker,

Bnier,

'Twould mike her amiable, fubdue my father
Entirely to her love ; but if flie loft it,

Or made a gift of it, my
Should hold her loathed.

Sbakefpeare.

2.

Sometimes with th« particle in before
the fine.

;

She told her, wiiile flie kept it,

But I'll amerce you with fo ftrong a fine.
That you fiiall all repent the lofs of mine.
All the fuitors were confiderably amerced ; yet
tills proved but an inelTedual remedy for thofe
mifchiefs.
Hale.

[aimable, Fr.]
pleafing.
That which is good in the aftiofls of men, doth

Lovely

not only delight as profitable, but as amiable alfo.

Spenftr.

Our Lord and Saviour was of opinion, that
they which would not be drawn to amendment of
lifr, by the tcftimony which Mofes and the prophets have given, concerning the miferies tliat
ibUuw finners after. death, were not likely to be
perfoaded by other means, although God from the

not quite

is

fcarceft, and moft valuable ; it is generally of a
dove colour, though fome are purple, and others
white like the diamond. The German is of a violet colour, and t!ic Spanilh are of three forts ; the

SfeSatsr.

[amentatiu, Lat.]
Hanging as by a thread.

it

A

Amenta'ceous. adj.

but nature obferves the fame tenour, bccaule her
works are fo pcrfeft, that there is no place for

2.

it

and pleafure.

becaufe

precious ftone of a violet colour, bordering on
purple.
The oriental amethyft is the hardctl,

If the fitujtion of Babylon v»as fuch atfirftrasin
the days of Herodotus,

fignification, the word amends.

looked and wholly negleded.

Pleafantiicfs ;

wine, or contrary to drunkennefs ;

of the colour of wine, or becaufe it was
imagined to prevent inebriation.]

unfor-

a proniifcuous

made amends for in another.

They prefently amend.

Before it Was prefcntcd on the ftage, fomc
things in it have pafled your approbation and
vninidmtnt.
DryJui.
Man is always msnding and altering his works;

to

fo called, either

Ame'nity. n.f. [amenite, Fr. amceiiitas,
Lat.]

A change from bad for the better.

irregular.

was neccffary f.^r carrying on
the defigns of providence in this life, will be rectified and

Di/3.

A'METHYST. n.f [k^s'Slt©-, contrary

diftribution, whiclr

AMENDE, n. f [French.] This word, in

1,

we may fuppofe tliat fuch

Such fenftity hath Heaven given his hand.

oAme'ndment. n.f.

prieft's veftinent.

Ametho'tjicai,. adj. [from a and meihcd.] Outof.method; without method;

and vicious pcrfons profperous ; which
is repugnant to the nature of a licing, who appears infinitely wife and %ood in all his works ;

fro<ve fuppofes or

French, fignifits a fine, by whirh recompence is fuppofed to be made for the
fault committed. We ufe, in a cogn.ite

Dryden,

A MESS. n.f. [corrupted from amice.] A

argument for retribution here-

after, that virtuous pcrf.)ns arc very often

tuoate,

At his touch

a ftrong

is

To

As my fortune either amend: or impairs, I may
declare it unto you.
Sidn.y.

-•

Some little hopes I have yet remaining, that 1
may make the world fime part of amends for
many ill piays, by an lieroick poem.
Diyden.

Jercm. vii. 3.

JToAmb'nd. 1/. «. To grow better.

frefli

blowing, pure and

fweet,

M

you to dwell in this place,

heav'n

With day-fpring born ; here leave me to rcfpire.

Ameml-jaMT ways and your doings, and I will
5.

And watch the box, for fear they fliould convey
Falfe bones, and put upon me in the play.

Unwholefame draught ; but here 1 feel amends.
;

•.

To (hun amis ace, that fwept my flakes away

The air imprrfon'd alfo, clofe and damp,

change any thing that
is wrong to fomething better.
2. To reform the life, or leave wiclcednefsi
In thefe two cafes we ufually
write maid.
See
e r; n
ictiife

But then my fludy was to cog the dice.

And dext'rou/ly to throw the lucky fice

Raleigh's Effays.

Fairy S>ueen.

Lat.]

To correift

dice.

commonly all runs into the prince's coffcs.

To AME'ND. 1/. a. {amender, Fr. emendo,
t .

ambs ace, which appears, from very old
authorities, to have been early foftened
by omitting the b.'\ Two ace's on two

Shakefpeare.

Of the amends recovered, little or nothing returns to thofe that had fuffcred the wrong, but

Well kend him fo far fpace,
Th' enchanter, by his arms and ammar.ce.
When under him he faw his Lybian fteed to
prance.

&fether's &ate of Ireland,

Ames ace. n.f. [a corruption of the word

If I have too aufterely punifli'd you.

Or eJie for wife and civil governance,

Convtll.

All amercements and fine* that Aall be impoftd
upon them, Ihall come unto thcmfelves.

it

ufed.
For he is fit to ufe in all afi'ay^
Whether for arms and wariilcc amenanct.

a fine upon any mifdemeanour ; he
inflidts any pecuniary

punirtiment or forfeiture,

Blount.

Rccompence ;

Miliim.

Ame'rcement. \n.f. [from amerce.'^
Ame'rciamekt. jThe pecuniary pu-

Ame'nder. n.f. [from amend.'\ The per-

dif-

Greek coaftrudion, with the par-

that decrees or

fon that amends any thing.
A'menage. 7 n.f. [They feem to come
A'menance. 3 from flWMcr, Fr.] Con- Ame'nds. n.f. [amende, Fr. from which

daft ;

ufed, in imitation of

For his revolt.

in

vantage by the errour.

is

Ame'rcer. n.f. \irom amerce.'\ He that

Ame'ndment. ti.f,
fignifies,

Deut. x%n. ii).

_

ticle of.
Millions of fpiritt, for his fault amerc'd
0/" heav'n, and from eternal fplendours flung

Recovery of health.
Your honour's i>l yen hearing your amendment,
Are come to play a pleafant comedy.
Shaief/i.

Sometimes it
the

Hammond*: Praliical Catecbijm.
3.

enquiries or accounts.
Aiain, bccaul'e the inf'riour fort were loofs
«nd poor, and not amenabh to the law, he provided, by another adV, that five of the bell and
eldeft pcrfons of every fept, Asuld bring in all the
idle pcrfons of their fumatne, to be ju!^ilied by the

a vir/in of Ifrael.

3.

2.

fatlier's eye

Shakeff, Otlc/'o,

Pretending love ; (hewing love.
Lay amiable fiege to the honelty of this Ford's
wife ; ufe your art of wooing.
Shakcffeare.

A'MiABLEKEss.w.y; [from amiable.] The
quality

AMI

A M M

Amtta's breaft the fury thus mvtdes,

A'mity. m,/, [amities Fr. amicitia, Lat.

AMI
qualify

of bting amiable ; lovelinefs ;

And fires with rage aaid the fylvan fliades,

love.
-. the nauir^ g'i'Sy and amabUmJi of

pc'.v-'r oi' riiiing

wears off, they have noihing left
them, but tie by among the lumber

:ri;n
..i

to

and '

I

:!

.

Amon^ft; conjoined with.

3.

Lat. ]

[amicabiJh,

adj.

Friendly ; kind. It is commonly ufcd
of more than one ; as, they live in an
amicable manner ; but we feldom fay,
an amicahlt aftion, or an amicable man,
though it be fo ufed in this paffage.
oil vutiie heav'oly fair,
grace fere oe
Divine oblivion of low-thoughied care !
Freih blooming hope, gay daughter of the flty

erroneoufly >

Is yet jKJ/i,

p€fe.

Through the dun mift, in blooming beauty frefli.

3.

found my fubjt'c^s amicaliy join
friar.
To leffen their ceretts, by citing mine.
In Holland itfelf, where it is pretended that
together,
it is
amkally
ft£ti
live
fo
the variety of
notorious how a turbulent part), j.>ining wi:h the
Arminians, did attempt to deft.oy the repubiick.
Svi/i'i Church of Engf:ind Man,

A'micb. n.f. [amiiius, Lat. amia, Fr.
Primum ex fix indumentii epij'ccpo {^ pref-

In an ill fenfe.

only and pcrfuafions, not amiji to be followed by
them, whife cafe is the like.
Htakcr.

Methinks, though a man had all fcienc:, and
all principles, yet it mi^ht not be avtifi to hav^
fome confciencc.
I'i/iutfon,
5.

amiiSiiv alba,
cinguhm, fiola, manifulus , i3 planela. Du

V'our kindred is nut much amils, 'i:s true j

ttgitur, cajlita'.em inlcricris ho-

kna-.es, nothing delighted mc fo m^xh as to Hand

drfignat : tegit enim cor, ne sanitates cog! 1 el ; Jhingit outem collum, ne inde

tninis

Bruno.]

The firft or undernioft part of a priell's
habit, over which he wears the alb.
Thus piU'd the night fofoul, till morning fjir

Wrong; not according to the perfection of the thing, whatever it be.
Yet I am fumewhit better born than you. Dryd.
I buiii a wait, and when the mafons played the

quo collum Jlringttur,

ad linguam tranfeat rm/idacium.

Wrong ; improper ; unfit.
Examples have not generally the force of laws,
which ail men ought to keep, but of counfcls

bjteriis communibits funt ,

by, while my fervants threw down what was amif;.

Svift
6. Reproachful ; irreverent.
£very peopie, oatiun, and language, which
fp;ak any thing amiji .igainft the God of Shadrach, Melhach, anJ Abednego, fliall be cut in
their houfcs Ihall be made a dungSill

Came forth with pilitim fteps in amict grey.

piece;, and

Milt>n,
On fome a prieft, fuccind in aniUe white.
Pipe.
Attends. .

becaufe there

[from a and mid, or
Ahi'd.
7 f'''Pmidj}.]
Ami'dst. 5

from

equally dillant

Of the fruit
Of each tree in the garden we mny eat

j

But of the fruit of this fa r tree amitiji

The garden, God hath lajd, ye ihall not eat.
Milton.

The two ports,
fiatue of the gj'iJt

the

bagnio,

and Donatelli's

duke, an:tdji the four flavcs,

chained to bit pedcftal, are very noble fights.
Addijun.
.

Mingled with ; furrounded by ;

2.

in the

ambit of another thing.
Arrid my flock with wot my voice I tear.
And, but bewitch'J, who a< his tlock would moan ?
Sidn<y.
\

So hills nmld the air encountf r'd hills,
M to and fro with jaculalion dire.
Miltcn.
^ave 1 donr, to name that wealthy fwain,
>n:A^
;..

my

cryital flreams I bring,

winds to blaft my flow'ry fpiing.
0rydcn.

after this furt.

it

no ether God that can

deliver

DanidfU'i. z^.

/.Impaired in health; as, I was foraewhat ami/s yefterday, but am well to8.

day.
Jmi/s is marked as an adverb, though
it caonot always be adverbially rendered ; becaufe it always follows the lubllancive to which it relates, contrary to
the nature of adjcdlives in Englilh ;

and though we fay the aflion was amifs,
we never fay an amifs adlion.
9. j^mifs

is

ufed by Shaiejpeare as a noun

fubllantive.

To my lick foul, as fin's true nature is.

an umbcliiferthe juice of a
kind of ferula growing in Barbary, and the plant Ts
rtus plant.

called

Diofcorldes

fay'i)

Fliny

calls

agafyliiu

Hamlet,

Ami'ssion. n.f. [ami^o, Lat.]
To Ami't. "v. a. [ann/to, Lat.]
a word little in ufe.

Lofs.

To lofe

water congealed by the frigidity of the
air, whereby it acquircth no new form, but rather
a conHftence or determination of its dilBucncy,
and emuutb not its elliuice, but condition of Auidity.

is

Brown's Vulgar Ernurt,

the tree

metopion^

without, eafily fufible, refinous, fomewhat bitter>
and of a very iharp tartc and fmell, fomewhat |ike
This gum is faid to have fcrved the angarlick.
cients for incenfc, in their facrifices.

Sa-vary, 7ren/oux,

Sal Ammoniac is a volatile fait of two kinds, anThe ancient fort, defcribed.
cient and modern.
by Pliny and Diofcorldes, was a native fait, generated in thoic large inns where the crowds of pilgrims, coming from the temple of Jupiter Ammoo,
ufed to lodge ; who travelling upon camels, and
thofe creatures in Cyrcne, where that celebrated
temple ftood, urining in the ftables, or in the
parched fands, out of this urine, which is remarkably ftrong, arofe a kind of fait, denominated fometimcs from the temple, j^mmtmacy and fometiniCa
from the country, Cyreniac, No m-rc cf this lalt
is produced cheie5 and, from this deficiency, foine
fufpedt thf^re never was any fuch thing: but tliia
fulpicion is removed, by tfae large quantities of a
fj);, nearly of the fame nature, thrown out by

mount j^tna.

The modern fai ammoniac is made in £gypt
wheie long-ncckcd glafs bottles, filled with loot,
a little fea fait, and the urine of cattle, and having their mouths luted with a piece of wet cotton^
are placed over an oven or furnace, in a thick bed
of alhes, nothing but the necks appearing, and
kept there two cays and a night, with a continual ftrong fire.
The ileam fwclls up the cotton*
and forms a parte at the vent-hole, hindering the
faltj from evaporating j which ilick to the top of
the bottle, and aie tak.cn out in thofe large cake^,
which they feud to England. Only foot exhaled
from dung, li the proper ingredient in this preparation i and the dung of camels aifurds the
ihongeft.

Our chymifts imitate the 'B^y^Htan/a/ ammoniat^
by adding one part of common fait to five of
urine; with which fome mix that quantity of
foot, and putting the whole in a veiid, tlicy r.iife
from it, by fublimation, a while, friable, farinaceous fubfiance, which they cAlJuI ammcniac*
Chambtrs»

[from ammoniac'^

Having the properties of ammoniac fait.
Human blood calcined, yields no fixed faltj
fal

ammoniac j for that remains im-

at'rcr

repeated diftillations; and dirtilla-

nor is it a
:

is

it

which, he lays, grows near the Temple of Jupiter
It
Anaraon, whence the gum takes its name.
ou^ht to be in dry drops, whice within, yeiJowiOi

Ammonx'acal. adj,

Each toy feems ptologue to fome great amifs.

Ice

a

Gum Ammoniac is brought from the £ail la-

Ftiitfax.

4.

Vctrhum*

The name of

«. /,

dies, and is fuppofed to ooze frum

Philifs.

1

let there be

'drug.

when it is truly dm.e.

She figh'd withal, they conftru'd all amifi.

Anna's late conqueft^.

midft ;
either extremity.

AMMO'NIAC.

And thought (he wifii'd to kill who long'd ti kifs.

Oer verdant meads, and pleas'd, pcrbapf, r«volv'd

j

'Twixt us and tliem no league nur atuUy,

any time we hare done amift, is not to fever ourlltaker.
fclves from the church we were of before,
O ye powers that fearch
The heart of man, and weigh his inmoft thoughts.
Addijon,
If J have done amijs, impute it not

Two lovely jouth«, that amUshly wilkt

yliniiius

a

We hope therefore to reform ourfelvcs, if at

goodwill.

the

commit

Sbake'p, King Jihri.

amicable manner ; in a friendly way ;
with goodwill and concord.
They fee

In

to

Faultily ; criminally.

z.

A'micably. ad-v. [from amicahU.'\ In an

i.

mifdo,

For that which thou haft fworn to do emifa.

'\

y peSus

to

Faulty ; criminal.

I.

A'micablekess. »./. [from amicable.
The quality of being amicable; friend-

Cange.

To my deplored afljes

AUHJ^n,

Ami'ss. ad'v. [from a, which, in this form
of compoiition, often fignifies according
to, and mi/s, the Englifli particle, which
fhews aay thing, like the Greek va.fi,
to be wrong, as, to mi/count, to count

!

!

Enter each inild, each amkaile gueft
Receive and wrap me in eternal icft.

linefs ;

or out of order.

for ever llnging, as they i^ine,
" The hand th.it made us is divine."

!

And faith, our early immortality

crime : amifs therefore fignifies net right,

And utter forth a glorious voice,

to excite love.

ATillCABLE.

Th^ prophet David did think, that the very
meeting of men together, ana their accompanying
one aiiother to the houle of God, ihouid make
the bund of rheir love infoiubJe, and tic them
Hooker,
in a league of inviol.ible amUy,
The monarchy of Great Biitain was in league
and am':ty with all the world.
Sir ^ohn Daviet on IrtlamU
You have a noble and a true conceit
.
Of gcdlilce amity \ which appears moil ftrongly
In bearing thus the abfence of your lord. Sbakefp^
And ye, oh Tyrians, with immortal hate
Purfuc this race, this fervice dedicate

In reafon's ear they all ryoice.

-A'miai;:,y. adnj. [fTom.^miaHe.'\ In an
amiahle manner ; in fuch a maBner as

whether publick between

naiions, oppofed to 'a«r; or among tha

people, oppofed to difccrd-^ or between
private perfons.

What tho' no real voice nor found
jimd their radiant orbs be found ?

Addifcn,

f th«? fpeeies.

Friendfhip,

Prjdrn.

mutable

ammon'iaraj (juality of anijnal
and turns them alkaline
fo that it is a
fait neither quite fixed, run qiiiLe volatile, nor
quite acid, nor quite aikal'ne, nor quite ammoniacal J but foft and benign, approaciung nearcft to
^l-Outkn^t^
tlie natuxe of fa] ammoniac.
tion dcllroys the
faiti,

:

Ammu*

A M O

A M O

Ammcki'tiok. »./. [fuppored by fome
to

come from

m

a

munitions,

I hive then,
you fee, obferved the failings
of many great wits amangft the moderni, who
have attempted to write an epic poem.
Dryden.
There were, among the olu Roman ftatucs,
feveral of Venus in di(ferent pofturea and habits j
as there are many particular figures of her made
after the fame defign.
jiddijon.

forueffes.]

Military

A'morist, n.f. [from amour.'] An ina-

amonitio, which, in the

barbarous ages, feems to have fignified
fupply of proviilon ; but it furely may
be more reafonably derived from vtuttilio,

fortification ;

things

the

for

AMP

cho/es

man profeiSng

Hores.

morato ;

They muft make themfdvcs defenfible agiinft
ftr>nger$ ; and muft have the jfliftance of fomf
»ble military man, and convenient arms and
ammunition for their defence.
Baca.
The colonel ftaid to put in the ammunition he

love.
Female beautiei are as fickle In their facei as
their minds ; though cafuilties Ibould fpare them,

Clarendcn,

All the rich mines of learning ranfackt are.

To furnilh ammunition for this war.

Diniam>
But now his (lores of ammunition fpent.
naked
His
valour is his only guard
Rare thunders are from his dumb cannon fent.
:

And folitary guns are fcarcely heard.

Drydtn.

Ammuni'tion bread, n.f.

Bread for

the fupply of the armies or garrifons.

A'mnestv. n.f

[autrsM.]

An aft of

JMORO'SO. n.f

in the

womb is moft immediately covered, and

with which the reft of the I'ecundines, the chorion, and alantois, are ejeftcd after birth.
It is
whitc-r and thinner than the chorion. It alfo connutritious humour, fcparate-i b^ glands for
that purpofe, with which the foetus is prcferved. It

tains

U outwardly cioathed with the urinary membrane
and the choriin, which fometimes ftick fo clofc to
one another, that they can fcarce be feparatcd. It
has alfoiu veflclefrom the fame origin as the chorion.

Shiimy.

AMO'MUM. n.f. [Lat.] A fort of fruit.
The commentators on Pliny and Diofcoridcs fuppofc it to he a fruit diftirrent from ours. The modern amomum appears to be the__^fl of the ancients,
or bajiard fitme-parjUy,
It refembles the mufcat
This fruit is brought from the Eaft Ingrape.
dies, and makes part of treacle.
It is of a hot
fpicy tartc and fmcll.
Ttcnjoux. Ciambcts.

Amo'nc.
Amo'ncst. j

\prep. [aman5,3eraan3, Sax-

I.

Sbakcfpfare.
The amorous mafter ownM her potent eyes,

fons or things on every fide.
jimbngji llravvbcrrics fow here and there fome
borage-lted ; and you (hall find the (Irawberrics
under thofe leaves far more large than their fel-

Now walking in the garden, by foft winds
to their ears, while day dedia'd :

they

heard,

And from his prefence hid thcmfelves, am^ng
The thickcft trcis, both man and wilj.
Milton.
1. Conjoined with others, fo as to make
pai't of the

number.

Fairy S^teii'

At her fo piteous cry was much amoved
Her champion ftout.
Fairy S/ueeii,
•To

A Mo'u NT. a;, «. [monter. Ft.]

1.

To rife to in the accumulative quanthe

Let us compute

Shahefp. Rich. III.

And into all things from her air infpir'd
The fpirit of love, and amorous delight.
Miltcn.
In the amorous net
Firft caught theylik'dj and each his liking chofe.
Mill'jn.
!

IVaVer.

A'M0R0usLy.a</i/. [fromfl/»oro»/.] Fond-

Burnet's Theory,
is

together.

Bacon*

Judgments that are made on the wrong fide of
the d .nger, amount to no more than an afi'e£tation
of Jkiil, without either credit or effed.
VEfirange,

Amo'unt. n.f. [from To amount.]

The

quantities accumulated.
And nnv, ye lying vanities of life.
Where are you now, and what is your amountt
Vexation, dllappointmcnt, and rcmorfe. Thcmfon.

Amo'ur. n.f. [amour, Fr. amor, Lat.] An

ly ; lovingly.

When thou wilt fwlm in that live-bath,
Each fi(h, which every channel hath.
Will amoroujly to thee fwim.
Gladder to catch tiiee, than thou him.
«.

f

[from

afi'air of gallantry ;

rally

amorcufnefs

enough

to

:

to prolecute his amours all the world

over; and
never fo outrageoufty, yet the impure
flame will either die of itfelf, or confume the body
that harbours it.
South,
The rertlcfs youth fe.irch'd all the world around;
But how can Jove in his amours be found ?

let it burn

Sidney.
wit, and

make him (jnd it more eafy to defend fair ladies,

an intrigue geneof vitious love. The ou

No man is of fo general and diflAifive a luft, as

amorous.'}

nels ; lovingnefs ; love.
AU Gynecia*s actions were interpreted by Bafilius, as proceeding from jealoufy of his amcroufnejs.

ufed

founds like 00 in poor.

Donne.

The quality of being amo'°x>us ; fond-

Lindamor has

more particularly how

fum total ; the refult of feveral fums or

Under the plantane's (hade, and all the day
With amorous airs my fancy entertain,

A'morousness.

little

ufed, figuratively, of the confequence rifing from any thing taken alIt

2.

how I long my carelefs limbs to lay

Invoke the mufes, and improve my vein \

a

this, that more might have been done, or fooner.

Nor made to court an amorous looking-gtaffs,

O

is

The errours of young men are the ruin of bufinefs ; but the errours of aged men amount but to

am not (hap*d for fportivc tiicks,

am rudely ftampt.

the whole ; with
ufed of feveral

in
It

or how many oceans
of water would be necelTary to compole this great
ocean rowliog in the air, without bounds or banks.

Dryden''i Dufrefnoy.

Relating, or belonging to love.

I, that

to.

much this will amount to,

is nature o/'whatfoever flie produces.

I that

particle

fums in quantities added together.

fondnefs ; fond.

3.

compofe

tity ; to

Naturally inclined to love ; difpofed to

^dd;f!.n.

A'mper. n.f. [amppp. Sax.] A tumour,
with inflammation ; bite : a word faid,
by Skinner, to be much in ufe in Effcx
but, perhaps, not found in books-.

Boyle on Cohtfrs,

JMO'RT.

aJv. [a la mort, Fr.] In the
Hate of the dead; dejefted ; depreffed ;

AMPHl'BIOUS. adj. [S^<p. and ^1©-.]

fpiritlefs.

I.

How fares my Kate ? what, fweeting, all amort f

BiUcn.

The voice of God they heard.
Brought

To

Prior.

Apes, as foon as they have brought forth their
young, keep their eyes faftencd on them, and are
never weary of admiring their beautyj fo amoroiti

a

remove ; to move ; to alter : a
fenfe now out of ufe.
Therewith, amoved from his fober mood.
And lives he yet, faid he, that wrought this t€t f
And do the heavens afford him vital food ?

z.

Sigh'd when he lookM, and trembled as he drew j
Each flowing line confirin'd his firft furprize.
And as the piece advanced, the paflion grew.

2.

:

juridical fenfe.

than to defend himlelf againft them.

on.]

Mingled with; placed with other per-

lows*

To Amo've. 1/. a. [anoveo, Lat.]
I. To remove from a port or rtation

[amorofo, Ital.]

Shttkefpeare, on.
Sure my brother is amorous on Hero ; and hath
withdrawn her father to break with him about it.

hanged for, if he committed it on
the firft of July ; by which the greateil criminals
may efcape, provided they continue long enough
in power to antiquate their crimes, and, b;
ftifling them awhile, deceive the legillatufe into
an amrejiy.
Sivift.

The innermoft membrane with which the ftetus

This did concern the kingdom, to have farms
maintain an able body out of penury,
and to amortize part of the lands unto the yeomanry, or middle part of the people.
Baccn.
fufiicient to

In love ; enamoured ; with the particle of before the
thing loved ; in

1

infallibly be

Amn'i'colist. n.f. {ammcola,'LaA.'\ Inhabiting near a river.
DiS.
AM.Ni'ciNOus. n.f. [amnigenus, 'L?A.'\
Born of a river.
DiS.
AMNION. In./. [Lat. perhaps from
J'MNIOS. S
«/«*'&•.]

A man- ena-

Ayliffe't Parergon yurit Caneaiei.

To AMORTIZE. -V. a. [amertir, Fr.] To
alien lands or tenements to any corporation, guild, or fraternity, and their
fucceflbrs ; which cannot be done withr
out licence of the king, and the lord of
the manour.
Blount.

Dia.

A'morous. adj.

never be brought into charge.
commit upon the laft of June, what he would

[Ital.]

moured.

oblivion ; an aft by which crimes againfl the government, to a certain
time, are fo obliterated, that they can
I never read of a law enafted to take away the
force of all laws, by which a man may fafely

a

age brings in a necclTity of decay ; leaving dotcr^
upon red and white perplexed by incertainty
both of the continuance of their miftrefs's kindnefs, and her beauty, both which are neced'ary to
the amorijl^s joys and quiet.
Boyle.

brought with him ; which was only twelve barreli of powder, and twelve hundred weight of

match.

a gallant ;

provifion for them, after the lawi of amonixatim
were devlfed and put in ufe by princes.

Sbitk Jp. Taming of the Shrcii •

AmOrtiza'tion. 1 n. f. [amorttfeinea/,
Amo'rtizement.J
amorlijfahle, Fr.]
The right or aft of transferring lands
to mortmain
that is, to fome commu;

nity, that never is to ceafe.
Every one of the religious orders was confirmed
by one pope or other; and they made an elpecial

That which partakes of two natures, fo
as

to live in

two elements ;

as, in air

and water.

A creature nf amphibious nature,
Onlmd a bcift, a filh in water.

Iludibras.

Thofe are called amphibious, which live ficely
in the air,

upon th- earth, and )et are obfcrved to

water, as it they were natural inhabitants of that clement; t.iough it be W(trth
the examination to know, whether any of xhoft
live long ijpoo

creatures that live at cale, and by choice, a good

while.

AMP

^A-

or
of the ancients were built in the form of a femicircle, only exceeding a juft femicircl^
by one fourth part of the diameter ;
and the amphitheatre is two theatres
joined together; (o that the lOngciJ
diameter of the amphitneitre vyas to the
Ihortell, as one and a half to one.

behold fpetlacles,

hile, et: rt any time, «p«n the *arth, e»n live, a
long time t"ge:her, perfeftly under water, iocij.
f idles contain much oil, and amfhHi:us animals
partijiiMCe fome\vhat of the nature of fiflies, end
Arbutknoi.
are oily.

a.

AMPHi'sioustfESS.

Sto:/!.

[from arrt.hi-

n. /.

Am

logy.'^

.

[from amphibo-

ai^.

Doubtful.

[from aw
phihological.l Doubtfully ; with a doubtful meaning.

Amphibolo'oicali.y.

aJ-j.

AMPHIBO'LOGY. ». /.

Is the poet juftlfiable for relating fuch incredibla'
einpl{l>"'t">tii f

that enlarges any thing ; one that exaggerates ; one that reprefents any
thing wiih a large difplay of the belt
circumftances ; it being ufually taken
in a good fenfe.
Dorillaus could need no amplifitr's inouth for
the higheft point of ptaifc.

To A' MVLIV\

Great in b'llk.
iliation of grief ?

Her delicate cheeks.
Shaktfp. King Lear,
3. -Unlimited ; without rellriftion.
Have what you alk, your prcfcnts I receive ;
Land where and when you pleafe, with amplt leave.

He that aifirm'd, 'gainll fenfe, fnovr black to be,

Drydin.'

She took 'cm, and read 'em in myprefencc,

And now and then ^n ample tear trill'd down

4.

Things are not what they fcem.
ytrfei Oft Ckaveland,

Glamjillc.

Amphi'bolous.

iidj.

Tofled from one to anothei: j
each way.
-hcK foch an

ttrft'-'^-'

ring •Lhertifclves

inak

^

-

-

fluking

:

i

A fcrpent fuppofcd to have two heads,
and by confeqaence tomove wiflt eiAer'
end foremoil.
'"—

th': ar:;

,

•,

.

'Hit

!»,'

'-

T

'

/

Jir',fvn's

.,//;.',

aiptriair.

,

.

,

AmpI.! A'tio'n.
71.

1.

JMPHrSClI.

4.

[a»!pliOf hzt.J

1

t

the fcye.al p.iges.

ext'en-'

/: [Lat. ,i,i.<?'.fx.o., of
'--•''.'"; ^•; ..
^'"fibfV.
^.^.
J;'
mfi.^\ andffxia, a fhadow.l 'JTlofe peoplci
Odimii matterS'atfm'fc rior'oif"an amphi/tiiS, but
dwelling lb- climates, yvherein ihi?. (liaen)^t to Be rcltrained and interpreted' in tli'e irilded
dows, a: different times of the year,
fenft.
Ayliffa'i Parargi,n.
fij

>

both ways; to the north'pole.when

the fun is in the fouthern figns ; and. to
thj fouth j>oJc, when he is in l!..
thern figns.
TheCf are the pcoj

2.

DjfFBrenefs; enl.iygenient.

•

I.

"

,

,

,^^^ plcfd

thjt n?.iy be
.

fin.".

.

-

:-; Iclf plain

and

til,{d,-r.

r e
n. ft [of aii3>Aia.Te'j't Te Ampli'picate.*. /j.'[<jw^///fc«,.Lat.]
I
of uuipi and 5i^o//ai.]
A building a' To enlarge; to fpreadout ; to amplify.
circular or oval fo-m, having its ar^-i
Dia.
^
encorapalTcd wiih rows of feats one a- Amplifica'tion. ». yr \ampUjication,
Love another; where fpdftatoxs' mi^hc
Ft, ampl^caiio. Lit.]
;

.

m

.

Vol. I.

To fpeak largely in many words

;

to

•

'

inhabit the torrid zone.

A M p H r H e'a

,1

particle on.

lay one's felf out in diffufion.
When you jfieiV to amplify en the former
btanihfCi of a difcouii'e, you will often lay a nectl.
fltjiupyjii yourfelf of contrafliog the latter, and
Drevcrtt'yoijrfelf in die moll important pa" of
iVattii Lugid.
yourdcfign.

The obfcurity ot the lubjtft, and the prejudice!
:>-,...
CX-]
'

YVatii.

To A'^MPLipy. 11. n. Frequently with the

'

fall

to improve by new addi-

follosved,

[fpom (impliale'.Y

>i.\f

;

In paraphrafe the author's words are not ftriQIjr
his fenfe too is amplifd but not alDrydeu.
tered, as W.iUcr's tranflation of Virgil.
1 feel age advancing, and my health is infufiicient to increafe and anptifj thele remarks, to
confirm and. improve thefe rules, and to illuminate

To

and dilucid/tte, to i«ddand
"
^rmrn^

Enlargesiitor ; '.e'xafegeratloD :'

To enlarge
tions;

.'iuitl'.i

n'^-'j-i^ut fpieiplain
'

^

,

in prop6rtion,ej£hcr to t'le t^m-'

He fliall look wpon it, not to cradufe or. axte-i

Vuher Emayt.

Scnrpion, and a'fpi xaianpbijbant dire.

Shaleff.
Since 1 have plainly laid open the negligence
paft,
would
not
that
is
1
and errours of every age
Willingly leem to flatter the prefent, by amplif/irg
thi diligence and true judgment of thole ferviDavits.
toiirs that hiive laboured in this vineyard.

=

enlarge ; to mal;e greater ; to extend.

,

Rahigh,

To exaggerate any thing; to enlarge

His fame unpariilel'd, haply aKpliJiid.

body yju rcprefcnr, or oif the pfaccsj

To A'Mf LI ATZ. v. a.

a Imailer'kind

w.ird and backward,
of ferprnt, «!ii^
-her extreme, was afhath twn heal
firmed by N^cander. and others.
'

.,

or extend any thing in-

by the manner of reprefentation.
my lover; I have been
The book of h^s ^;ood afls; whence men have read

largenefs j fplen-

yiiu oear.

,',

make

'

'

proi^t;

and to

Tl'.y general is

far a perfon.of.piyj^onditionjtf)

plriyj' rt the

it,

it

Clarencor.

,

doUr.'
fill

break

have formed them in fplrltual matters.
3.

advance his highnefa'b levies with

litj of being ample j

;.

to

a defire oS ampUfing their power, that they might
be as great in temporal forces, as men's opinions

ple narrative, that is, not an epitome.

JMPHISB.'E'NA. n.f. [Ltt.i^.^.tr€ii.,.]

is

As the reputation of the Roman prelates grew
up in thefe blind ages, fo grew up in them withal

A'mpleness. ft./, [from ai/tple.'\ The qua-,

[«f«fi and tay^-.]
Dt3.
Equivocation; ambig^iity.

That

To enlarge,
corporeal.

2.

,

Auphi'logy. k. /.

.

,

6. DifFufive ; not contrafled ; as, an am-

Huac/.'.

to juftify their ailions.

any material

Baccn,
according to the feveral circumftances.
All concaves that proceed fiom more narrow to
more'brt>ad, io amplify the found at the coming
Bacon.
out.

Magnificerit ; fplendid.
To difpofe the prince the morcwiUinglv to un-'
dert^e his relief, the carl made nvpie promifes,

two th.'ufand men.

-d

to increafe

anatomy of it in feveral parts, and to examine it

Liberal ; large ; without parfimony.
If we fpeak of ftrid juftice, GoJ could no way

raifed, he would

— — r--r-L

E'ulney.

.

[amplifer, Fr.]

a.

:

that, within fo many days after the fiege thould be)

10.

name in all their

V

.

5.

[J/x^i and ^aUv.]

;

amplify any thing,

have been bound to requite man's labours in fo
large and amflt manner as human felicity doth
import ; in as much as the dignity 0^ this exceedcth lb far the other's value.
Hocko:

In defining obvious appearances, we are to ule
what is mort plain and eafy ; that the mind be not
milled hy amfhlhtcgies into fallacious dcduflions.

-v.

.

fubftance, or objeft of fenfe.
So when a great moneyed man hath divided hi«
chefts, and coins, and bags, he fecmeth to himand therefore a way to
felf richer than he was

Now the fallacies, whereby men deceive others,
and arc deceived thcmfelves, the ancients have
divided into verbal and real ; of the verbal, and
fuch as conclude from miftakes of the word, there
»rc but two worthy our notauon ; the fallacy of
equivocation, and amfhlbohfry.
Brvtcn'i Vulgar Errcurt.

X

To enlarge

1 .

Did your letters pierce the queen to any demon-

Mi^ht prove it by this empiil/'^h^y j

F'l '•

charaftpr of Alcinous.

A'mpsk^ier.b./ \(romTo amplify.'] One

Ihimfon.

z.

It niay be anfwered, if he had put

thele extravagances into the mouth of Ulyffes, he
had been un(>arJonable ; but they fult well the

Heav'n dcfcendj
In univerfal bounty, fliedding herbs.
And fruits, and flowers, on Katurc's amp/e luf,

is equi'VDCittion.

fummarily, without any amplijicalhn at
ia what manner defects have been fupDav'tet.

'1 hings unknown feem greater than they are,
and are ufually received with amplificaticrs above
Brc-jin'i Vulgar Erroars,
their nature.

Large; wide; extended,

I.

I ihall
all, fiicw

plied.

A'MPLE. adj. [amflus, Lat.]

means the double fignincation of a fmgle
word; as, noli rcg<m oc cider e timere bonum tft, is amphihclogy ; captate Upores,
meaning, by Ifperes, either hares or jells,

taken in a rhetorical fenfe,

larged with many circumftances.

Add'tjon:

[S^i^.Co^o^ia.]

It is
Dii'courfe of uncertain meaning.
diflinguiihed from equl-jocation, which

botl

Enlargement; extenfion.
It is uiually

and implies exaggerated reprefentation,
or diftufe narrative ; an image heightened beyond reality ; a narrative en-

Rais'd in degrees ; to fixty paces rear'd,
That when a man was plac'd in one degree,
Heig'^t was allowM for him above to fee. Drjden.
Concei\e a man placed in the burning iron'
chair at Lyons, amid the infults and mpckerit.-s of
a crowded am^hithiatre\zni ftill keeping Iiis feat;
or ftrcrched upon a grate of iron, over coals of.iire,;
and breathing out his foul among the exquiOtc
fufFcrings of fuch a tedious execution, rather (han
renounce his religion, or blafphcme bis Saviour.

live in difterent elements.

p H I bolo'g I c a l

1.

2.

ftage-plays,

as

theatres

Within, an am^hUh-satre appear'd

The quality of being able to

tious.]

The

gladiators.

Of a mixt nature, in allufion to animals that live in air and water.
Traul^i -f jKf hihicus breed.
Motley fi uic of inun^^rel fee4-v
By Cii dim from lordlings fprung.
By the fire exhaled irom dung.

AMP

MP

1.

To form large or pompous reprefentations.

.

An excellent medicjiw for the ftone might be
by amplifying apprehenfions ab'.e to
Bru'wii's Vulgar Errcurs.
break a diamond.
I.haie fometimes been f)iced to amplify en
others i but hfie, wUeK the fubjeit li fo ftuittul,
coni;eived,

I,

that

AM P

To A'MPUTATE. *. a. [awputo, Lat.]
To cot off a limb a wordufed only in

that the h»rveft ovcrcoipei the reaper, I am
Drydm,
Oiofttnei by my chain.
Homer amflijiny not invents ; and as thers
waj rrally a people called Cyclopcans, fo they

chirurgery.
Amongft the cruiters, it wwci^^UineJ, that
their furgeons were too aftivc in it'nfu'tat'ng ,fnc-

PcIk'i Odsffiy.

fored memberf.

LI t u d e. «./. \ampUtmlc, t'lr. c.mpti-

[ampittatio, Lat.]
«. f,
The operation of cutting off .> limb, or other
The ufual method of performpart of the body.
ing it, in the inftancc <»t' a leg, is as follows. The
proper part for the operation being four or five

Extent.
Whatever I look upon, within the amfittuie of
heaven and earth, is evidence ot human jgnoranrc.

inclws below tiic knee, the ikin and flcfli are fi;ft
to be drawn very tight upwards, and fecured from
returning by a ligature two or three fingers broad :

Clami'iliu

2. Largenefs; greabiefs.

Men fliould learn how fp^cre a thing the t.-ue
inquifition of nature is, and accu(h>m themfclvcs,
by ihc light of particulars, to enlarge their minds

to the cmfftlttdc of the world, and not reduce the
Bacun.
world to the narrownefs of their minds.

Capacity j extent of intelleftual faculi

3.

ties.

I

With more

than

beav'n

liuraan gifts from

adorn'd,

PerfeQions abfolute, graces divine,
And amfUiuie of mind to greateft deeds.

Milton^

Splendour ; grandeur ; dignity.
In the great fiamc of kingdoms jnd common-

4.

'

wealths, it is in the power of princes, or ertatcs,
to add emfliiudi and greatnefs to their kingJams.
Bacan'i EJpiys.

abundance.
You flxould fay every thing which has a proper

5. Copioufnefs ;

and dircd tendency to this end j always proportioning the amfHtudi of your matter, and the fulnefs of your difcourfej to your great defign ; the
length of your time, to tlie convenience of your
IfiHis's Loguk,
hrarrrs,

6. Amplitude of the rangi of a frojeMe,
denotes the horizontal line fubtending

the path in which it moved.
aftronomy, an arch of
the horizon, intercepted between the
true eaft and weft point thereof, and
the centre of the fun or ftar at its rifmg

7. Amplitude, in

.

or fetting. It is eaftern oi* ortive, when
the liar rifes ; and welleni or occiiuous,

when the liar fets.

The eailern or wcf

tern amplitude are alfo called northern
or fouthern, as they fall in the northern
or foulhern quarters of the horizon.
8. Magnetical amplitude is an arch of the
horizon contained between the fun at his
rifing, and the eaft or well point of the
compafs ; or, it is the difference of the
rifmg or fetting of the fun, from the
eaft or weft parts of the corapafs.

ff^Jcmjn'iSurpry.

'

Amptjta'tion.

tudo, Lat.j
1.

above this ligature another loofe one is palTcd, for
the gripe ; which being twilled by means of a flick,
may be ftraitened to any degree at ple.'.fure. Then
the patient being conveniently fituated, and the
operator placed to the infide of the limb, which is
to be held by one afliftant above, and another below the part defigned fur the operation, and the
gripe fufficiently twilled to prevent too large an
hemorrhage, the flclh is, with a ftroke or two, to
be feparated from the bone with the difmembering
knife.
Then the perioftium being alfo divided
from the bone with the back of the knife, faw
the bone afunder, with as few (Irokes as pofliLIe.
When two parallel bones are concerned, the lU(h
tliat grows between them muft likewife be feparated before the ufe of the faw. This being done,
the gripe may be flackened, to give an opportunity
of fearching for the large blood veffels, and fecunng
After making
the hemorrhage at their mouths.
proper applications to the ftump, loofen the firft,
ligature, and pull both the Ikin and the flelh, as far
as conveniently may be, over the ftump, to cover
it; and fecure thcni with the crofs flitch made at
the depth of half or three quarters of an inch in
the (kin.

liberally.
For whofe well-being.
So amply, and with hands fo liberal,
;

Mi/ton,
Thou haft provided all things.
The evidence they had before was enough,

tafly enough, to convince them ; but they vvete
and to thofe, who
relolyed iwt to be convinced
are rcfolved not to b? convinced, all motives, all
:

Atttrbury.

arguments, are equal.

2.

At large
Of him

;

A'm u LET.

part of the body, for preventing or curing of fome particular difeafes,
Ihat fpirits are c^irporeal, fecnu at firft view

Amurco'sity. K.f. [amurca, Lat.] The
quality of lees or mother of any thing.

Did.

with the fanuftick ideas of a bufy Imagination.
Decay tf Piety.
I cannot think it natural for a man, who is
much in love, to amuji himfelf with triflef. Jt'aljh.

Milan,

ten, and with all [he force and elegance o( words;
others muft be eaft- into (hadows; that is, piflcd

over in fileoce, or but faintly touched.

Dryam't Du/nfnoy

Am^'gdalate. adj.
Made of almonds.

Thomjin^

[amygdala, Lat,}

.i M y' G D A L I N E .

adj. [amygdala , Lat ]
Relating to almonds ; relembling al.

monds.

An. article, [ane, Saxon ; ten, Dutch elne,
German.] The article indefinite, ufed
;

See A.
before a vowel, or h mute.
One, but with lefs emphafis; as, there
ftands a houfe.

1.

Since he cannot be always employed in Audy,
reading, and cunverfation, there will be many an
hour, befidcs what his exercifes will take up. Lode.

Any, or fome ; as, an elephant might
fwim in this water.
He was no way at on uncertainty, nor ever in thfr

2.

Icaft at a lofs concerning

A wit

's

any branch of it. Lute.

a feather, and a chief a rod,

h.mcft man 'sthe nobleft wotk of God.
Pafe.
Sometimes it fignifics, like a, fome par-

.'lit

3.

but this is now difufed.

ticular ftate ;

It is certain that odours do,

nourifli ;

efpccially the

in a fnull degree,

odour of wine ;

and we

fee men fin hungred do love to frnell hot bread.

Bjecr.

4.

An is fometimes, in dd authors, a contraflion of and if.
'

He can't flatter, he

An honeft mind and plain

I

he muft fpeak truth,
y^H they will take it, fo ; if not, he's plain. Shtkefp.

5.

;

Sometimes a contraftion of and before
if

Well I know
The clerk viill ne'er wear hair on 's face that had it.
— He wll an i/he live to be a man. Shaitff,
6. Sometimes it is a contraftion of eu if.

—

To AMU'SE. v. a. [amufer,FT.]
My next pretty corrcfpondent, like Shakefpearc's lion in Pyramus and Thiibe, roars «»' it
I. To entertain with tranquillity; to fill
Addijon,
were any nightingale.
with thoughts that engage the mind,
To divert im- A'NA. ad'V, [«»<».] A word ufed in the
without dillrafting it.
prefcriptions of phyfick, importing the
plies fomething more lively, and to
like quantity ; as, wine and honey, a
It
pleafe, fomething more important.
or ana ^ ii ; that is, of wine and honey
is therefore frequently taken in a fenfe
each two ounces.
bordering on contempt.
In the fame weight innocence and prudence
They think they fee vifions, and arc arrived to

The woman's feed, obfcurcly then foretold,

Some parts of a poem require to be amfly writ-

Beholds th' armifive arch before him fly.
Then vaniOi quite away.

They do not certainly know the fatfity of what
they report ; and their ignorance muft ferve you
as an arnnltt againft the guilt both of deceit and
Gmtrnment of the 7cngue.
malice.

fome extraordinary revelationf. ; when, indeed,
they do but dream dreams, a»d umujt themfclves

detail.

that this is a current word.
But amaz'd.

a conceit derogative unto himfcif ; yet herein he
eftabiiOieth the doftrine of lutlrationo, amulm,
Brawn's Vulgar Errours.
and charms.

fo lately prom's'd to thy aid,

dilfufive

fenfe,

Srotvni Vulgar Errours*
[amuktle, Fr. amuletum,

n.f.
or amoletum, quod malum ainolitur, Lat.]
An appended remedy, or prefervative ; a
thing hung about the neck, or any other

Svj'ift.

Amu'sive. adj.\from.amttfe.'\ That which'
has the power of amufmg, 1 know not

The Amazons, by the nmfutatm of their right

without referve.
At return

At large ; copioufly ; with jt

his liberty.

Amxj'ser. n. f. [amufear, Fr.] He that
amufes, as with falfe promifes. The
French word is always uken in an ill

breaft, had the freer ufe of their bow.

"ticw airifBer known, thy Saviour, and thy Lord.

3.

Rogers*

During his confinement, his amufement was to
give poifon to dogs and cats, and lee (hem expire
Pcpe^
by flower jr quicktr torments.
I was left to Hand the battle, while others, wto
had better taknts than a dr.iper, thought it no unpleafant amufement to look on witn f ifety, whilft
another was giving them divcrfion at the haz.^rd of

CkmwJ/cn,

Cbambtrs.

Largely

poApoce the one

thing neceflary.

Then apply pledgets, ailringcnts, plaif-

ters, and other necelfaries.

,

A'm PLY. ad'V. [ampli, Lat.]
1.

trifling amufemtnl, is fuflfered to

:

might be men ot' great naniic, or giants.

A'm

•AN A

.JA.:M^U

z.

To draw on

from time

time ; to
he amufed his
to

keep in e.xpcftation ; as,
followers with idle promifes.

take.

Ana of each does the juft mixture make,

Coicley.

He'll bring an apodiecary with a chargeable long

billof<JM«.

Dryden.

A'NA. n.f.

Books fo called from the laft

fyjlables of their titles ; as, Scaligerana,
Thuaniana ; they are loofe thoughts, or

dropped by eminent men,
and collefted by their friends.
Amu'sement. n.f. [amufepunt, Fl-I That
An aca'mptiCK. adj. [a»a«a/iwla-.] Rewhich amufes ; entertainment.
flefting, or reflefted ; an anacamptuk
life, ev«a the rooft
cafual hints,

Every inteicft or plcafure of

found*.

ANA

ANA

A N A\

(band, an echo ; an anacamptUk hill, a To Anacra'mmatize. t. «. [anagramhill that produces an echo.
tnatifer, Fr.]
To make anagrams.
A N A c a'm p T I c K s /.'./. 'J'he doftri ne of Anale'ptick. ««!>. [i^«^^«1.x©-.] Comreflefted light, or catoptricks.
It has
forting; corroborating: a term of phyno fmgular.
fick.
[See CatharI Anacatha'rtick. n.f.
Anakfticl meJicines cheiifli the nerves, and renew the fpirits and ftrength.
TicK.] Any medicine that works upSlu'mc/.
wards,
^incy. Ana LOCAL, fl:^'. [hora analogous.] Analogous ; having relation.
'^JNACEPHJLjEO'SIS. n. f. [<i,ax/f aWhen 1 fee many anakgai motions in animals,
y.ai«7t?.J Recapitulation, or fummary of
though I cannot cj!l them voluntary, yet I f<e
the principal heads of a difcourfe. DiS.
them fpontaneous, I have reafon to conclude that
Ana'chorete. 7 n.f^ [fometimes vitithefe in their principle ate not Amply mechanical.
.

S

Ana'chorite. 3

oufly written <7ffi:/>or/>f

A

vent for a more aullere and folitary life.
Yet lies not li^ve deai here, but here doth fit,

properly diiHnguifhed ^rota analogous, as

words from things ; analogous iignifies
having relation, and analogical having

Dortne,

Ana'chronism. ». /. [from a«» and
An errour in computing time,
Xj^it^-]

tl:e

This leads me to the defence of the famous anamaking ^neas and Dido cotempora-

Dryd.r.

Anacla'tjcks. n. /. [aia a.nd K>jiu.]
The doftrine of refrafted light ; diop-

AKALo'GiCALLV.a^v. [from analogical.]

following ; as, he rttair.eJ his 'virtue!
amidjl all his misfortunes, misfortunes
luhicb only his 'virtues brought upon him.

In an analogical manner j in an analogous manner.
I am convinced, from the Smpllcity
and unifor-

Myfterious; elevated;
alted.

tlung ana/ogical to either.

[frOBi

analogi-

Myllerioufly j with religious elevation.
,]

grie'ved,

I .

grows extremely fetid ; fo that .the analyfis of the
dew ol^ any place, may, perhaps, be the belt method of finding fuch contents of the foil as are
within the reach of the fun.
jirbuthtiot*
Z.

applied for the illuftration
of fome analogy.
n. /.

[i>.a>.r,y,o-f/.of.]

A

Analyjii coniiils in making experiments and ob-

and in <!rJA'ing i^ncral coiulufions from
~"
thein by induftinn, I'.nd admitting of no objcfJ^iuns

f. a. [from anakgy.]

but fuch as arc taken fr<>m experiments, or other
certain irutlis.
Ncnvion'i Ojiticks*

refemblance

3.

;

N.BfY, attorney-general to Charles I. a
very laborious man, J msyl in laiu.

Though all her parts be not in th' ufuai place.
She hath )ct the iinagrams of a good face:
If we inig'it put the letters but one way.
In that kan dearth of words what could we fay?
Dinnc,

Thy genius calls thee not to purchafe fame
In keen iambicks, but mild ana^iam.

Anagra'mmatism.
gram.']

We

have Ijfl.ms of material bodies, diveifly
figured and fituatcd, if feparately cunlidcrcd ; thcv
reprefent the objcft of tire dcdrc, which is .im/o'gtiitd by attraction or gr.'.vitation.
C'jrym.

Ana'logous. adj. [i,a and >o7^.]
1.

Eitrrcile makes things eafy,»hat woul J be other-

is

a diniilution of a

name truly written into his letters, as his clement?,
aiul a n;w conneiion of it by artificial
tranfpofition,

Many

Cnmdcn.

A s AC R a'm mat iST. n.f. [from aaagiuui.]

A maker of anagrami.

.

impottarvt

confequenccs

may bo Ji iwn

titlici may be probjbiy m.:intaincd ag^lnft the
inacciirat-nsfs of the analytical experiments vulgarly relied on.
il-y!f.

'

and anthgous rcafonings from the caafcJ of them.
3.
2,

It

has tthe word

before the thing to
which the refemblance is noted.
T>is incorporeal fuiftaine may have foiaC fort of
to

That which relolvcs any thing into firft
that which feparates any
compounJ. See An alysis.
principles ;

from the obfervition of the mod common things,'

without addition, fuiftraftion, or change of any
letter, into different words, makir^
(^mt |«rfe<t
fcnfe apptjablc to the ^urton nameii.

I.

the exercife of the mind to that of the
b )dy.
It
is folly and infirmiiy that
makes us dtlitite and
i^<>^"iL-EJliMgc.

of wit could draw out of names, is naftramrr.at:jni,

metagrammatifm, which

Akai y'riCAL. adj. [from analjj'ss.]

«ry hard; at, in labour, iKirchings, he;,:j,
and colds ; and then thertis fi.mething an.ihgcti in
wife

anagrams.
The only quinteflence that hitherto the alchymj
or

Wc

cannot know any thing of nature, but by an
annlyfn of it'j ti ne initial ciutts ; till we kno'.v the
firl) firings of natural taoticns^ we are itillliiit >gnorants.
L-.vicuti/t.

parallel.

The aft or praftice of making

A Iblution of any thiiig, whether corporeal or mental, to its fiill elements;
as, of a fentence to the f;ngle words ; of
a compound word, to the particles and
words which form it ; of a tune, to finglc notes ; of an argument, to fimple
propofitioiifl.

be.iring fome refem-

blance or proportion ; having fomcthing

Dijdcti.

[from ana-

n. J.

Having analogy ;

conlidered,

fi-rvati'in,;,

to form
;
between different
things
to confidcr fcmething with regard to its analogy with fomcvvliac clfc.

fome

firil

then another

An

To explain by way of analogy

conceit arifing from the letters of a name,
tranfpofed ; as this, of ff^,i,l,l,i,a,m,

A confideration of any thing in parts, fo
as that one particular is

argument from the caufe to the effeft.
To Ana'locize.

[ani?iuirt{.}

A feparation of a compound body into
the feveral parts of which it confifts.
There is an account of dcv/ fa.liiig, in fome
places, in the form of hotter, or greafe, wlijcli

(itnefs to be

Ana'locism.

By grammarians, it is ufed to fignify
the agreement of feveral words in one
common mode ; as, from Icve is formed
lo'ved ; from hate, hated ; fiom grieve,

Ana'lysis. n.f.

Analo'gicalness. n.f. [from analogical.] The quality of being analogical

cal.]

A'NAGRAM. «./. [i.ci and y^x;j.f/ia

Hair's Orig. cfMatiHitd.

mity of the Divine Nature, ami of all his works,
that 'there is fome one univerfal princip'/;)
running
through the whole fyrtem of creatures anah^kaUy,
and congruous to their relative natures.
'Chrym.

That

£>,V?.

Anago'gic ALLTT. ojv.

3.

There it placed the minerals between the inanimate and vegetable province, participating fomc-

duplication ; a figure in rhetorick, in

Fr.l
religioufly ex-

Burvet's Tteory^
If we make Juvenal exprefs the cuitoms of our
country, rather than of Rome, it is when there
was fome analogy l^e-'U-ixt ihe curtoms.
D>yden,

Analogous ; having refemblance or re-

which the laft word of a foregoing member of a period becomes the firft of the

[anitgogique,

tivixt is ufctl.
ii the body politick have any analogy to the naan ad> of oblivion were necelVary in a hot
diftcmpered ilate.
t>rydm.
By onalt/gy vj'ith all other liquors and concretions,
the form oi the chaos, whether liquid or concrete,
could not be the fame with that of t.nepretent earth.
tural,

lation.

jtNJDIPLO'SIS. n.f. [<i,«J.-=7A„3-.{.] Re-

adj.

ter analogy, the particle befuHen or be-

iVaitt's Logh-t.

2.

When the thing to which the an.ilogy is
fuppoied, happens to be mentioned, analogy has after it the particles tc or ivith j
when both the things are mentioned af-

is peculiarly called an analcgical word
To a
;
found or healthy puJfe, a found digeftion, found
flecp, are fo called, with reference to » found
aiil
healthy conftitcuion ; but if you fpeak of found
doarine, or found fpeech, this is by way of refemblance to health, and the words arc metaphorical.

for it is certain, that the hero lived almolt

ANACo'oiCAL.

2.

this

two hundred years before the building of Carthage.

which contributes or relates to fpiritual
elevation, or religious raptures; myllerious ; elevated above humanity.
Did.

and prophecy, willj by iiM/og;y and due proportion,
extend even to thofe communications of God's
will, that arc requifi e to falvation.
Souths

attributed to fevenil other

is

Hcokcr»

What I here obferve of extraordinary revelation

objeCh, not by way ofiefemblance, but on the account of fome evident reference to the original idea,

fhromijrry in

An ACOGE'tICAL. adj. [Ktayai^r.]

from Ged it hath proceeded, that the church
hath eventiore held a prefcript form of common
pi-ajer, although not in all things every where the
fame, yet, for the moil part, retaining the fartie

Siillirgjlc!!.

ticular idea or objefl,

it is to the mind what light is
eye, by enabling it to difcover

that which was hidden before.

When a word, which originally fignifies any par-

placed too early ; but is generally
ufed for any errour in chronology.

has no lingular.

to the

quality of repreienting relation.".

rrprcfentation.

is

It

as learning, is faid to enlighten the mind ;

that is,

It is looked on only as the image of the
true God,
and that not as a proper likencfs, but by anahnn'l

by which events are mifplaced with regard to each other. It fcems properly
to iignify an errour by which an event

tricks.

Refemblance between things with regard to Ipnie circumflaiices or efiedfs ;

1.

anal(^'<

Analo'gical. adj. [hoTa analogy.]
1. Ufed
by way of analogy. It feems

ries :

ANA'LOGY. n.f. [awXoyia.]

Hale.

monk who, with the
asax'^^'mi-^
leave of his fuperiour, leaves the conVowM to this trench, like an anacborite,

exigence, arahgcu! to corporeal exten/lon ; though
we have no adequate conception hereof.
Lackt*

I

I

That which proceeds by annlyfis, or by
taking the parts of a compciund into
dillinft and (articular confideration.
Dcftartcs hath here infinitely

^ *

outdm e
pli

1

all

the

foj hei-s

.

ANA

ANA

ANA

Him thus the anarch eA^\

pTiilofoplitrs that wtnt btfore him, in givlnj » par-

Ana'tocism.

With fjult'ring fpeech, add vifageinj^mpos'd,

ticular and analytical account of the un'vcrfal fabrick : )cl he intends his principles but f>r hypo-

Anfwer'd.

Glanville,

An A'RCHiCAL.flfl^'. [fromaHarchy.l Con-'

AfALY'TtCAi-ty. adv. [from ttnaljticnl.\
In fuch a manner as feparafes compounds into fimples. See Analysis.

fufed ; .without rule or government;
In this anarcki.jl aini rebi-Iiious ft.ite of .human

thcfcf.

AnaLy'tiCK.

adj.

'

The

[ara^L^lz'®-.]

ture, and

fpecial properties j

and therefore it is
fTjirs's Log'uk.

its

To A'NALYZE, t. a. [uvcc\v<^.] Jo refolve a compound into its firft principles.
See Analysis.

anarchf, or the fivage life; the a:ij Jlling .povyer
an3 frceJom being an cffeft and cunfe^ueace-of

^

rhaturer 'thinking.

(

^uincy.

if it be enquired, why fuch

jirhuibnot en Diet

Anasa'rcous. a<ijr. [Uom anafarca.'] Re-

cfieift,

argument, aft, objeO,

laft

what

is

chiefly

is

meant in the

A gentlewoman laboured Qf an afcjtes, wjth an

A'n alyzer. ti./. [from To nnnlyze.] That

Boyle.

tt.

/.

The fpecies are,

The pine-apple.
i.

Oval-fli.iped

ANASrOMO'SJS. n.f
rofia.]

•,
coloured pine.
Miller.
Witnefs thou bed anana, thou the pride
Of vegetable lite, beyond whate'er
The poets imag'd in the golden age.
Ttomfon.

;

various parts.
./?nd;off?r/?r,adjudged, that if nature had

been fufrun her own courfe, without this fatal interruptior, he might have doubled his age, JJowel*

j

fere'd to
(

Hence when analsmijis difcourfe,

A

How like brutes organs are to ours

ANATHEMA, n.f [«»aV«-]
1. A curfe pronounced
by ecclefiaftical
i^er bare anafhetnas fall but like fo many hrutj

who think them-

fclves fhrewdly

hurt, ^orfooth, by being cut off
from the body, which they choofe not to be of.

Pigs m'ght fqucak love odes, dogs bark fatlre.

To Ana'tOMIZB. v.a. [a>a1//;c»»>.]
1. To difleft an animal
to divide the
body into its component or conftiiuent
;

parts.

S^jufh's Scrmini.

Our induftry mull even aralomixe every particle .
of that body, which we are to uphold.
JivAer*

The

objeft of the curfe, or perfon
curfed.
This feems the original mean-

2.

ma.']

To lay any thing open diftinflly, and

2.

ing, though now little ufed.

An athema'tic al.

•

And that, for any thing in nature.
Prior.

authority ; excommunication.
fulmina M'fon the fchifmatical j

;

They grant, if higher powers think fit,
A bear might foon be made a wit;

been precedent, are pollponed.

by minute parts.

adj.- [from" anathe-

an anathema ; that which relates to an
anathema.

fpcak but brotlierly of him, but fhould I ana-

i

rcro/Zi-hi.-n to thee as he is, 1

That which has the properties of
I

mull blulh and weep,
and then muft look pale and wonder.
Shake^m
'J'lien dark diftinciions reafon*s liglit difguisM,
And into atoms truth anatcmix'J.
Denbanh

An athema'tically. 'v.a. [(mm ana- ANA'TOMY. n.f [i.x1oi^'.cc.]
thematical.]

In an anathematical man-

The art of diflcfting the body.

1

ner.

To
'

It

An ath e'm ATIZE. v.a. [from fl».sthema.]
To pronounce' accurfed by ecclefiaftical

authority ;

to

excommuni-

cate.

They were therefore to be anathftnatixeif, and,
with'detcftation, branded and

bamfhed out of the

Hammond.

church.

AnaPLERO'ticK. fl<^'. ira«rX>)«a.] That An ati'ferous. adj. [(romanas zndfero,
up any vacuity ; ufcd of applications which promote flelh.

Lat.]

fills

A'NARCH. n.f. [See Anarchy.] An
,

author of confufion.

of animal bodies,
by means of diflediion he that divides
the bodies of animal^, to difcover the
ftudies the ftruflure

pofterous placing, from itar^-t'ipw.]
figure whereby words which lliould have

tuorld ?

which

While lome afhimed it had no gall, intending,
only thereby no evidence of anger or fury, ethers
have conftrued anatomically, and denied that part at

[from a.k and

ANA'STROPHE. n.f [ivar^o^i, a pre-

See PENGUIN.

when feveral ciaufes of a fentence are
begun with the fame word, or found;
as. Where is the ivife? Where is the
fcribe F Where it the difputer of this

doiflrine of anatomy.

j

I

uiNjfNJS, nxriU. The fame with penguin.

JNAPHORA.n.f. [iraipofi.] A figure,

fenfe of an anaiomift ; according to the

The inofculation of veffels, or

the opening of one veflel into another;
as, of the arteries into the veins.

pine-apple,

with a whitifti flcfh. a. Pyramidal pine-apple,
vith a yellow flcfh, 3. Pine-apple, with fmooth
leaves.
4. Pine-apple, with fhinirig green Icavci,
and fcarce any fpines on their edges. 5. The nlive-

In an anatomical manner ; in the

cal.]

ftruflions.

certain form.

ANANAS,

Locke,

.

JKAMORPHO'SIS. n.f. [avi and ^e^ipo'u.]
Deformation ; a perfpeftive projeftion
of any thing, fo that to the eye, at one
point of view, it (hall appear deformed,
in another, an exaft and regular reprefentation.
Sometimes it is made to appear confufed to the naked eye, and regular, when viewed in a mirrour of a

[from anatomi-

opening th; veflVls, or of removing ob-

Particular reafons incline me to doubt, whether
bodies.

;An ato'mically. adv.

Anasto;ma'tick, adj. [fron 4"» and
all.
Brc^'n^t yylgnr Errsun.
5-o/i*a.]'
That which has the quality of Ana'tomist.
n.f. [atoio/.-.o^.]
He that

which has the power of analyzing.]
the fire be the true and univerfal analyzer of mixt

httle diU'ctcfiC t'rojn

If-^ifeman.

theological

ff^atn'i Logick.

is

anafareoui fWelling of her belly, thighs, andjlcgs,

fchOols, when they fpeak of analyzing a text of
frripture.

anatomical parts of mat'.cr,
hardnefs.

lating to an anafarca ; partaking of the
nature of an anafarca.

an

adjunct, oppofite, ^c. then it is
enaiyzed analogically and mctapliylically.
This
caufe,

founded with, and, if we will look into the minute

extravafated

under the Sk^a, it is called an anafarca.

a^ion is to be avoided, the immediate anfwer is,
becaufe it is (in.
Norm': MifccH,
When the fentence is diftinguiflied into fubjefl
sind predicate, propofition,

is

Anatomized'; differed; ftparated.
The continuation of (ojidity is apt to be con-

3.

ftance is ftutfed with pituitous humours.

yVhen the lympha ftagnates, or

Proceeding upon principles taught in
anatomy ; coufidered as the cbjcd of
anatomy.
1'hcre is a natural, involuntary dillortion of the
mufcl'Sj which is the anatcmieal caufe of laughter
but theie is another cat^fc of laughter, which de.
cercy requires.
Svtif^

'^ivifl.

ANASARCA, n.f [from ,i,i and o-aJ.]
A fort'6f dropfy, where the whole lub-

To analyse the immorality of any aAion into
its laft principles ;

2.

Afi/fcn.

A'-bitraiy power is but the firft natural ftepfrom

Chemiftry enabling us to depurate bodies, aijd,
in fome mcafufe, to analyse them, and take afdndcr their heterogeneous parts, in many chymical
experiments, we may, better than in others, know
what manner of bodies we employ ; art having
made them more limple or uncompounded, than
nature alone is wont to prtfent them us.
Boyle.

•

Eternal «»iWi»;,amid(^ the' noife'
Of endlefi wars, and by confurton f>and.

principles, or p?r;s, its gcnerick ra

called the m-thod of refolutiim.

1

And Chaos, anceft-vrs if Nature, hold

and leads us into the knowledge of it, by refolving
firft

'

WMrr^Ueft Night

Relating or belonging to anatomy.

When We are taught by K'gick to view a thing*
completely in all its parts, by the help of d:vi<j»n,
it has the uf; of an anat:ir.:c.:l knlle, which differs an animal body, arfd fepiiirci the veins, arteries, niTves, mufolcs, membranes,
&V. and
(hews ui the feveriil pjrt& whicb^o to tlie compo>
fiti n cf a complete animal.
H'ails'i Lcgick.

'

giftracy.
Hudihras.

method takes the whole compound as

A fpecies of ufury generally

forbidden.
1.

He was in logiclc a great crrtick.

into its

ginal fuin.

'

Anato'mical. adj. [irom anatomy.']

vernment ; a Hate in which every man
is unaccouaable ; a £ate without mi.-

finds it, whetiier it be a fpecies or an individual,

upon intereft ; the addition of the
due for money lent, to the ori-

tereft

intereft

;

CI ryne.

fimpie con.litucht or component parts,
applied chiefly to mental operations.

j4iia!ytich

Lat.

[anatecifmut,

belong' ng to the fjprenrie Spirit.

A'n ARCH Y. »./. [i»«f;^ia.] Want of go-

It

f.

The accumulation of in-

nature, the fuculties bi'longitig to the mate, ial
world prcfume to determine the natuK of fubjefts

manner of refolving compounds into the

Profoundly .*l U'd in analyiik,

n.

an»lo>ri(7f/o,-.]

Milr^n.

Producing. ducks.

Not in uie.

If there be anati/.-rous trees, whole corruption
breaks forth into barn:fcles ; yet, if tliey corrupt,
they d:* "-n"i.itc Ijitu maggots, which produce not
them a;; .in.
Brtnen'i yiJ^ar Errouri.

hct

is

et

proverbially f.iid,i''crK;i«'/r« .;<;/« ine/t, bit-

mujca fplencm ; whereas thek parts anatomy

h:ith not dlfcovered in infedls.

Br:<zvn^s Vulgar Erroun*
thi anatomy of tlie mind, as in
that of the body ; more good will accrue to mankind, by attending to the large, open, and perceptible parts, than by fludying too much fuch
finer nerves and vefl'els, as will for ever efcape our
obferva::ion.
Pcfe.
2. The tlodrine cf the ftrufture of the
It is therefore in

I

,

body, learned by diflliftion.
Let tS'e mufc!ei'bewell i.nfericd and bound together, according tithe
is

given us by analony.

knowledge of them which
Drydcn,
3.

The

A N C

A N C
The aft of dividing any thing, whether

3.

j!jr>

Scotch jig, and full as fantaf^ical ; the wedding mannerly modeft, as a meafure full of ftate and ancbentry ; and then comes
repentance, and with his bad legs falls into the
cinque pace fafter aud falser, till he links into his

he lecmcth to himlelf richer than he was ; therebreak it,
fore, a wjy to amiplify any thirg, is to
and to malie anatomy ot it in feveral parts. Bactn.
integuments ;
4. The body ftripped of its

grave.

I.

O that my topguc were in 'Bx thunder's mouth,
Tiien with a paiiion I would ih ike the world,
AiiJ rouze from firep that fell arcf.my,
WhXJi canr.o: hear a feeble hdy's vn:rj. Shalcjp.
By way

meagre perfon.
Th;y brjjjht one Pinch,

:

I

villain,

A mere Matumy, a mounKbank,
A thiead-bire juggler, and a fortjne-telle-,
A needy, hoUow-ey'd, iharp looking wre eh,
A living dead man. Stakfjp. C'.rrrdy of Err-un.
A'natron. n. r. The {cum which fwims
upon the molten glafs

furnace,
melts in tne

in the

which, wh^n taken oft',
air, and then coagulates

ill

both fure and
3.

and which entcrcth into
Htbrnui.

lie or

Kr.illn'i H'lpry of the turkt.
Ent'ring with the tide.

A little fea-fi(h, much ufed by way o£

;

To A'nchor.

femble the animal ferment in tafle an^ virtue^
as the falfr-icid gravies of meat; tiie fait pickles.
of fi/h, anch'jnjicSy oyft-^rs.
FUyer*

[from anchor.'\
to lie at anchor.

A'NCIENT.

;

as,

Old

1,

he anchored

To fix on.
My topgue Ihouid to my ears not name my boys.
Till that my nails were fl/jci»a/-'</ in thin-: eyes.

1

Siakflpeare.

hight, s" 'th he ; and do advance

Mine a>'<tfirj from famuus Corndin,

Who firll toraife our iriufe to honour did begin.
from a wife and virtuous anccfiry,
and a love of one's country, are
p^^^,
the tuppuii and urnameats of government.

ftemious recluie perfon.
'J'o

(jc

uelp^ratiui: turii

my truft and hope!

An anchor's cheer in prifon be my fcopc

!

.

,,

MMjcn.

-

Say fr'^'m what fccpterM ancejlry ye clafm,
Pofe.
B,ecord''d eminent in d:ri' ii!'-):, I^mc ?
2.

Thf lionour of dcfcent
lu'-ii

;

birth.

..I atc'-ftry rci.oer a i;0'jd nian more ilb"^ ^"^ ''^ *^^^ m'^rc contcmi-tible.
t

Mdf,n
A' K c H E N T r V . n. f. [ .'rom ancient, and
therefore properly to be written aneieniry.] Anaquity of a family ; ancient
dignity i appearance or proof of antiquity.
V.ooing, wedding, and repenting,

.^'lake/peare.

A'nchOr-hold. n.f. [from anchor and
hold.]
The hold or faftnels of the an.

chor ; and, figuratively, lecurity.

The Old itn^l.lh c >uid exprcis moit aptly all
the conceits of the mind in their own t mgue,
without birrowinj^ from any ; a; forexampic : t'lc
holy fervice of Cod, uhicti the Latins calied rcbecaufc it knitted the minds oi m&n togither, .'nd mort peo; Ic of £uiopc have joi rowed
ligi-»t

the fame

from tnem, they

•caniiy ^dff y!i/Mr/J, ai thi: one

called

moit u^r ifi-

a. d

on.y afiuran».e

i-jj la.t jnibt^r.if'jf'i at' out f.,uls he,ilt'i.

Cimiier.

A'nchor-smith. nj. [from a/jfW arid
i>

a Scotch

jMith.] I'he maker or forger of anchors.

Fr. antiquus„

;

happened long

that

fince

;

of

belonging to the crown, in St. Edward's or Wil-'
liam the Ccnquerour's days, did hold.
The number and names of which manours, as all otliersbel 'pging to common perfons, he cufed to her
written in a book, after a furvey made of them,
now remaining in the Exchequer, and called*
Uoomfday Book ; and fuch as by that book appear? i t» havfr belonged to the crown at that time^
are called anci'tit demrfnes.
.
Cozvc/U-

A'.vcHOR. n.f. Shaiejfeare {eems to have
ufed this word for anchoret, or an ab-

Sfenfrr.
:... 3>jherenre to the rights and libe.--

[ancien,

Ancient and old
old time ; not modern.
are diftinguifned.; old relates to the duration of the thing itfclf, as, an o/d coat,
a coat much worn ; and ancient, to time
in general, as, an ancient drefs, a habit ufed in former times.
But this isnot always obferved, for we mentioa
old cuftoms ; but though old be fometLmes oppofed to modern, ancient is fcldom oppofed to neiu, but when neiu
means modern.
j-ir.ciert tenure is that wliereby all the manours

his Ihip.
2.

adj.

Lat.]

'v. a.

To place at anchor

1

Savary.

fauce, or feafoning.

My intention, hearing not my tongue,
y^ncUrs on I label.
Hbakefprare.

lineage.

.

anthioe, Ital. of the fame fignification.J

We invent new fauces and pickles, wliich re-

Appear like mice; and yon tall ancboring baric
Diminifh'd to her cock.
Sbakefp. King Lear.
Near Calais the Spaniards anchored^ cxpedHng
their land-forces, which came not.
Bacon.
Of the ftrait courle to rocky Chios plow.
And anchor under Mimos' ihaggy brow.
Pope.
2. To flop at ; to reft on.

Halt.

Lineage ; a feries of anceftors, or progenitors ; the perfons who compofe the

f

Ancho'vy. n./ [from ancho'va. Span, or

Pope.

The filhermen that walk upon the beach

A'ncestry. »./. [from flfrf(y?or.]

Plit joii

life, that none of the ancient anchorites could g»
beyond you, for a cave in a rock, with a line
fpring, or any of tlic accommodations that befit afolitary life.
Pope*

Far from your capital my fliip refidcs

At Reithrus, and lei.ure at ambor ridti.

a term of law.
Lim-.tition in a^ioni anecfiril, was anciently fo

Sprar..

You defcribe fo well your hermitical ftate of

Dry den.

To caft anchor

one that retires to-

but he made that an anchorite as well as himfelf.

His veflel moor'd, and made with hauifers fad.

'u. n.

ffaUeri-

the more fevere duties of religion.
His poetry indeed he took along with him }.

withdrew his fleet, when cafilng anchcr, and landing his men, be burnt the corn.

Furl'd every fail, and drawing down the mall.

}.ere in England.

reclufe ; a hermit ;

ride at anchor.

He dropp''d bis anchirtf and his oars he pty'd j

ed from anceftors; relating to anceftors:

The an.bor'd veflel in the loudeft blaft.

A'nchoret. 7 «. y. [contrafled from
A'nchorite. 5 anachoret, S.tux'c^'iTrii.] A

dians would not be drawn forth to battle at Tea,

1 .

an-

for the liberty of

chor.]
Held by the anchor.
Like a well-twirted cable, holding faft

The Turkirti general, perceiving that the Rho-

To A'nchor.

The dijty paid
choring in a port.

The forms of fpeech in which it is moll

an eleftive, to \i\% fredecejfors.
And (he lit* buried with her anctjlcrs,
O, in a tomb where never fcandal flcpt.
Save this of net's. Stahfjt. Afm b adc ahut Nttb.

DryiUn,

i)hiJkeipeare^

3.

commonly ufed, are, to caji amhor, to

Cham was the paternal anctflor of Ninus, the

1.

ftedfaft,

the veil.

ditary monarch/ucceeds to his anctjiars ;

A'kcestrel. fl/^'. [from ancefiar.] Claim-

The baik that hath difcharg'd her freight.
Returns with precious lading to the bay.
From whence at firft ihe wcigh'd htt anchorage,

A'nlhored. farticip. adj. [from To an-

which confers liability or fecurity.
Which
pe we have a;* an anchcr ot the foul,

delcends, either by the father or the
It is diftinguiihed from preJemother.
cejjor ; which is not, like amejlor, a natural, but civil denomination. An here-

If farther 1 derive my pedigree,
1 can but guef. beyond the fourth degree.
The reft of my forgotten atictfi.rs
Were fon» of earth, like him, or fons of whores.

IVotton^

The fet of anchors belonging to a fhip.

2.

2; It is nfed, by a metaphor, for any thing

tliat wit'.iin

whofe
fcther of Chus, the grandfather of Nimrcd ;
Raleigh.
fon was Belus, the father of Ninus.
Obfcure ! why pt'ythee what am I ? I know
Vly father, grandfire,' and great grandfite too :

efficacy in nurture

Drydtn.

gathers upon the walls of vaults.

A'NBUtY. »./ SeeAwBURY.
A'lNCESTOR. n. f. [auce/or, Lat. aitOne from whom a perfon
<eft>t, Fr.J

Let me refolve whether there be indeed fuch
and iirft produflion ; for if
that fuppofal fliould fail us, all our anchorage werej
loofe, and we ihould but wander in a wild lea.

A heavy iron, conipofed of a long

fliorc :

It is likewife that fait which

mon fait.

A'nchorage. n.f. [from «;7i-^«r.]
1. The hold of the anchor.

Their anchors dropt, his crew the veflels moor.

com-

into

ther forge or

[anciora, Lat.]

(hank, having a ring at one end to
which the cable is faftened, and at the
other branching out into two arms or
fiooks,
tending upwards, with barbs
or edges on each fide.
Its ufe is to
hold the Ihip, by being fixed to the
ground.
He Jaid, and wept; then fpread his fails before
The winds, and reach'd at length the Cuman

a thin

a hungry lean- fac'd

Shaktjfeare.

A'NCHOR. B./

a Cieleton.

5.

Smithing comprehends all trades which ufe cffile, from the anchor fmilb to the
watchmaker; they all working by the fame rules^
though not with equal eXa^ncfs ; and all ufing the
fanie tools, though of feveral fizes.
Moxon^

a meafurc, and a cinque pacf ; the firft fuit is

iiot and hafty, like a

corporeal or intelleftual.
When a moneyed man hath di'-'dcd his cherts,

of irony or ridicule,

A N C

Old ;

2,

that has been of long duration.

\Vic;i the ^ncient is

wildom, and

days uoderlianrting.
rinlc^ affitmij that

111
length of
Joi, xii. 12.

God compiehended alt

things, and chat God was of all things the molt an^
cult:, bccaufe

he n^ver had any beginning. Raleigb».
In-luitry

Gave the call ofiri'M foreit to- Ills aie.
3, Paft ; former.
1

Ic;

thy I'jiy

:

Ihovfon^

If I longer flay.

We
bejin our antimt bickerings.
Sbaie^^
A'ncient,»./ Ifrom ancient, adj.]
Ih-ili

i.

Thofe

.

AND
1.

Tbofe that lived in old time w£re called ancJiHtt, oppofed to the moderns.
And though the ancunii thus their rules invade,
At kings difpcnfe with Uw> theoifelTcs have

Pipe.

2, Senior : not in ufe.
_

He coucheth it as a fpecial pre-eminence of Ju-

Jf you (Irike an endre body, as an atidiron of
maketh a more treble found,
and at the bottom a bafer.
Bacon.
brafs, at the top, it

The flag or ftrearaer of a ftiip, and,
formerly, of a regiment.

2. The bearer of a flag, as was Ancient

Pljlel; whence, in prcfentufe, enfign.
This is Othello's aircKnf, as I take it.
The fame indeed, a very valiant fellow. Shakefp,

A'nciently. aJn/. [from ancient.

"^

An D ro'g Y N A L. adj. [from a»Jif and yv>it.']

A'ncientness. »./ [from ancient. An'\

tiquity ; exiftence from old times.

The Fefcenine and Saturnian were the fame

;

they were called Saturnian from their ancienireji,

when Saturn reigned in Italy.
Dryiicn.
A'ncientry. »./. [from ancient.] The
honour of ancient lineage ; the dignity

of birth.
Of all nations under heaven, the Spaniard is
the miift mingled, and moll uncertain.
Wherefore, moll fooli/hly do the Irilh think to ennoble
themfelves, by wrefting their ancientry from the
Spaniard, who is unable to derive himfelf from

any in certain.
Sfenf.r en IrelarJ.
There ij nothing in the between, but getting
wenches with child, wronging the ancientry, dealing, fighting.

ff.

The miferies of the civil war did, for many
years, deter the inhabitants of our ifland from
the

thoughts of engaging anew in fuch defperatc undertakings,
i.

Newly

m a new manner.

;

He who begins late, is obliged to form aneta the
whole difpofition of his foul, to acquire new habits
of life, to prailife duties to which he is utterly

Dia.

Anecdote, n.f. [«„'«JijT(».]

a ftranger.

Something yet unpubliftied ; fecret hiftory.

Some modern anecdcte: aver,
He nodded in his elbow-chair.
Prior.
2. It is novy ufed, after the French, for a
biographical incident ; a minute palfage of private life.

Addiftin.

^„^,„,

Anfra CTUOSE. J rt^". [from anfraaus,
Anfra'ctuous. J
zy ;

full

Lat.] Winding; ma-

of turnings and winding paf-

fages.
Behind the drum arc fevcral vaults and anfraetucfe cavities

in the ear-bone, lb to intend the
imaginable, t!iat the fenfe might be.
we fee in fubicrraneous caves
and vaults, how the found ii redoubled.
Ray.
leall

Anemo'graphy. n.f. [aHjti®-and yjaipw.]

found

affefled with itj as

The defcription of the winds.
Anemo'meter. n.f. [S»^®. and ^fV^or.] Akfra'ctuousness.

n. /.
[from anfraauous.] Fullnefs ofwindings and turn-

An inftrument contrived to meafure the
ftrength or velocity of the wind.

ings.

Upon the top of its fingle ftalk, furroundcd by
a leaf, is produced one nalted flower, of many petals, with many ftjmina in the centre
the feeds
;

turning.

JNKMONE. n.f. [u„ti^n.] The wind Anfra'cture. n. /. [from anfraBus,
A
Lat.] A turning a mazy winding and
flower.

What fliall I do to be for ever known.
And make the age to come my own ?
Cew/ey.
The Danes unconquer'd offspring march beDryden.

my ftudy to make difcoverics of

;

ti;iies

changes of the wind.
It has been obferved, that hygrofcopes made of cat's
gut proved very good ansmo/copes, fcldom failing, by the turning the index about, to foretel the (hifting oi the
wind/'
Chambers.

A Word ufed in the Scotch

ANfc'NT. prep.
dialeft.
1 .

Concerning

;

about ; as, be /aid nothing

aiient this particular.

fn

2.

Over againft ;

oppofitc to ; as, be lives

auent tbe'murket-hauj'e.

Originally a meffenger.

A fpirit em-

Some holy angrl
Fly ro the court of England, and unfold
His mefTage ere he come.
ShaUfpeare.
Had we fuch a knowledge of the cor.tlitutijn of
man, as it is p.ilfible ang-h hive, and it is certain
Maker hjsj we (hould have a quite other

his

idea of his elicnce.

2. Jiigel is

Licke.

fometimes ufed in a bad fenfe;

as, angels of darknefs.

And they had a ki -g over them, which was the
ang^l of the bottom cu pit.
Rctidatijni.

Ib.m'h::.

A nemoscope. «./. [an)*i&-ando-xow©-.]
A machine invented to forctel the

angelus, Lat.]

human affairs.

Miller.

be planted about the end of September.
Tlmfe
with fmall leaves mull not be put into 'he ground
till the end of OiStjbcr.
Mortimer.
From the foft wing of vernal breexes ihed,
Anemories, auriculas, enrich'd
With ihining meal o'er all their velvet leaves.

;

ployed by God in the adminlliration of

bro.ij and hard leaves, and thoi'c with narrow and
fott ones.
The broad-lcavt-J anetnory roots fli.-uld

J..„„.

and if, the and is redundant, and is
3.
omitted by all later writers.

1.

W:nd flowers are dilliny-ifliej into thoic with

and

feeras a contraftion of anii if
It is the nature of extreme fcli-lovers, as they
will fct an houfe on fire, and it were but to rojil

curioufly intermixed.

/j/^?.

A'NGEL. n. f. [tcyfiXoe

are culletlcd into an oblong head, and furrounJed
w'th a copious down.
The principal colours in
fl».,-ff!«ni.j, arc white, red, blue, and
purple, fonie-

this nature in human life, ar.J to fettle the prefer diftinflions between the virtues ard pcrdctions of mankind, and thofe falfe colours and rcfembiances of them that Ihine alike in the eyes o;
the vulgar.
Addif^n.

though,

Prior.

An hermaphrodite; one that
of both fexes,
Andro'tomy. n.f. [from <i»ij and «>»«.]
The pradice of cutting human bodies.

Spenjer.

fignifies

Your art no other art can fpeak ; and you.

NAL.]

1.

Dryden.

m birth, in beauty you excel.

To (how how well you play, muft play anevi.

is

Sure his honelly
Got him fmall gains, but (hamclefs flattery
Anii filthy beverage, and unfeemly thrift.
And borrow bafe, and fome good lady's gift.

JnJ fometimes

That, as

The mufc might diaate, and the poet tell

androgynai.

panicle

their eggs.

At either barrier plac'd j nor, captives made.
Be freed, or, arm'd anew, the fight invade.

JNDRO'GrNVS. n.f. [SeeANDROCY-

by which fentcnces or
terms are joined, which it is not e;ify to
explain by any fynonimous word.

2.

;

Nor, if at mi fchicf taken, on the ground
Be fliin, but pris'ners to the pillars bound.

In the form of hermaphrodites ;

Broivnt Vulgar Errourt.

And. conjttn^ion.

It (ball ever be

;

This is the moft common ufo.

And ro'g ynous. adj. The fame with

bloom wrought into the figure of a flat
iron bar, about tliree foot long, with
two fquare rough knobs, one at each
end.
Chambers.

hind;
And Morini, the lafl of human Wnd.

fKiJeman,

Ane'w. adv. [from a and ueiv."]
'• Over again
another time repeatedly.

under fome kind of hermaphrodites.

Shakefpeare.

Ancle. See Ankle.
A'nconv.
/. [in the iron mills.]

The

In the orifice, there was a throbbing of the arterial blood, as in an ancur'.fn.

or new tranfexion, but were androgynally bom, and

Trebilond aticimtly pertained unto this crown
;
now unjuftly poffrffcd, and as unjuftly abufed, by
tliofe who have neither title to hold it, nor virtue
10 rule it.
Sidnry.
The colewort is not an enemy, though that were
anciently received, to the vine only, but to any
other plant, becaufc it drawcth ftrongly the fatteft
juice of the earth.
Bacon.

by a

by a wound through their coats, the
blood is extravafated amongft the adjacent cavities.
Sharp.

with two fexcs.
The examples hereof have undergone no real

In

in wluch, either

or,

Andro'cynally. ad<v. [from androgy»«/.]

arteries,

preternatural weaknefs of any part of
them, they become exceflively dilated ;

Having twofexes; hermaphroditical.

old times.

1.

of the

laid to burn.

Chriftianity they
Hookir.

A'ncient. h. /.
1

Akes. } n. f. The fpires or beards of
Awns. 5 corn.
DiH.
A'neurism. n.f. [atiK^t,!,.] A difeafe

Two Gent, tf Venra.

be corrupted from hand-iron ; an iron
that may be moved by the hand, or
may fupply the place of a hand.] Iron*
at the end of a fire-grate, in which the
fpit turns ; or irons in which wood is

or if you muft offend
Againll the precept, ne'er tranlgrefs iu end.

wore his aniienti,

Launce, an' (/"tljou fccft my boy,
Bid him make hade.

A'ndiron. n./. [fuppofed by Siinner to

!

nlas and Andronicus, that in

A N G

Shikr/jtiare"!

made ;
Moderns, beware

A N E
I pray the«,

3.

Angel, in

fcripture,

fometimes mean*

man of God, prophet.
4.

Angd is ufed, in the ftyle of love, for
a beautiful perfon.
Thou haft the fweeteft face I ever look'd on.
Sir, as I

5.

have

a foul, flic is an ang-.l.

Sbakt ;.care,

A piece of money anciently coined and
iraprefffd with an angel, in memory of

an obfervation of Pope Gregory, that
the pagan Jngli, or Eaglifh, were fo
beautiful, that, if they Were Chriilians,
they would be Angeli, or augeL.
The
coin was rated at ten (hillings.
Take an empty bafea, put an *i^./ gl" g Id, or

go fo far from the
bafon, till you cannot Ice the eitgri, bt:ca'.;ie it is rot
in a right line j then fill the bafufi with water, and
ycu tviil fee it out of its place, becaufe of the rcwill, into it)

t!.»n

Biicon.

fieflioo.

Shake tlie bags
Of hoard; n^ abbots j theif iirprifon'd angclt
Set thou at liberty.

A N G

A N G

A N G
wh«t you

The patient fiflier takes his filent ftand,
vtxtdi which, however, feems to come
Intent, his angle trembling in his hand
originally from the Latin ango."]
With io'ks unmov'd, lie hopes the fcaly breed,'
1. Anger is uneafinefs or difcompofure of
And eyes the dancing cork and bending reed.
the mind, upon the receipt of any in-'
Pope,
jury, with a prefent purpofe of revenge.
Tc A'ngle. f. n. [from the noun.]
Lode. 1. To iifh with a rod and hook.
;

ahatt/f-care.

jivgcr is like

As'gei.. aJJ. RefeiBbling angels ; ange-

Was the Lord ci_ plcafed againft the rivcrsr was

have marked

A thoufand blufliirg appir.t.irs

thine anger aga'..;*: the rivers, was rhy wrath againlt the fea, u:az ii^iu dijft ride upon thine li n;es

Start into her face; a thoafand innocent Ihatnes

In crgil vvhiter.eit bearaw^y thole bluthcs.

Ili^hh. ii.'. 8.
and thy c'^ario:^ 0:' fllvation ?
Auger is, acc.-rji;ig to fome, a tranfient hat-ed,

Or virgins vifired by engel powers.
With golden crowr.s, and w cathes

or Hi Icaft vc.-v .k;; it.

of heav'niy
Popi's Rafe efthi Luk.

'

lU.v rs.

A'ncel-hke. adj. [from angel and like. ]
Refembling an angel.
In hew'n itletl th u l\ire wert dreft

With that angit-like dilgjiie.
ff^alltr.
n. /.
[perhaps properly
angle- Jl}ot, being tolden together with a
hinge.] Chain-fhot, being a cannon
bullet cut in two, and the halves being
joined together by a chain.
D.Sl.
jlKGE'LICA. n,J. [Lat. ab angelica vir/u.'t'.] The name of a plant.

A'.NCEL-SHOT.

I maiii- ihe expefi.ncnt, fetting the moxa where
the tirft violt^nce of n.y pain began, and where :hc
greatei^ anger jnd forcnefs ilill continued, norv.ithInr.pte.
ftanding the fw -Uing of my t\/i>t.

a. [from the noun.]
To A'nger..
to enrage.
1. To make augry ; to provoke
-.'.

2. Greater wild anpl'ica,
t'.ca,
3. Shining Canada angtticii. 4. Mountain perennial argclica,
with columbine leaves.
MJIer_

carrieth a good mind ?

Htcker.

Sbakejpeare

There were fome late taxes and imp* fiticvns introduced, which rather angered tiran grieved the
Clanudtn.

people.

2.

in

form of a role, which are naked, growing on

the top of the ovary: thelc Howers are facceeded
by glubular fruits, which are foft and fucculent,

Md full of oblong feeds.
Ance'lical. adj.
1.

Miller.

\angelicus, Lat.]

It difcovereth unto us the glorious works of God,

and carricth up, with an angelical fwiftnefs, our
eyes, that our mind, being informed of his vifible
marvels, may continually travel upward.

2.

Ralt'igb.

Partaking of the nature of angels.

Bacon.

So angle we for Beatrice.

hung.
It diftereth much in greatpef? ; the fmalleft being

for thatching of boufes ; the fecond bignefs is
ufcd for angle-rods j and, in China, for beating of
Bacon.
offenders upon the thighs.
He mak.s a .May-fly to a miracle, and furniftes

Shakejfeare.
rather
is

nerves, veins, arteries,

and lymphaticks.

A

[from

treatife or

ayUTov

of fpeculations, which do ravi/h and fublime the
thoughts with more clear angelical contentments.
miHnt, Dadalus.

Dryden,

A

If the patient be lurprifed with a lipctbymoua
angour, and great opprefs about the ftomach, ex-

Amoe'i.icalness. n.f. [from angelical.]
refcmexcellence more than

/.

[from

Ange'lick. a<^'. [angelicus. Lit."]

Parta-

peeviftily.

I will fit as quiet as a
I will not fiir,

bmb

a-yfiToy,

Shokejpeare*

1

peradventure there fliall be thirty f >unJ ther".
Gen. xviii. 30,

and

A cutting open of the vef-

z.

It

feems properly to require, when the

objeft of anger is mentioned, the particle at before a thing, and •wiih before a

A'NGLli. n.f. [angle, Fr. angulus, Lat.]
Thefpace intercepted between t.vo lines

perfon ; but this is not ahvay! obicrved.
Your Corinlanus is net ni ich inilTe^i, but with

or meeting, fo as, if conti-

his friends : the commonwe ilth doth iVind, and fo
St akgjfeare*
wuuld do, where he angry at ir.
N.tw therefore be not grieved, nor iJngry nvith

nued, they would interfecl each other.
Angle ''f tbe centre 0/ j circle, is an anv^e whofe
vertex, or .tngular point, is at the centre or a circle,

king of the nature of angeU; angelical
above human.

yourlclves, that ye fold nrc hither : toi

and whufe Icgj are two iemidiamcters of cha: circle.
Stone's DiH.

fend

Here happy creature, fair tngelict Eve,
Partake thou alfo.
Milicn.
My tancy f .rm'd thee of angiUck kind.
Some emanati< n o{ th' all-beauteous mind. Pcfe.

A'NGLE. n./. {angel. Germ, and Dutch.]
An inftrument to take fiih, confifting of

A'ncelot.

n. f.

a mufical inftrument

fomewhat refembling a lute.

a rod, a line, and a hook.

etymology, but, with moft probability,
derived by SHmtr from an3e. Sax.

I

it

a vaft pleafure, that

of merit

tegrtrd

one

Sidney.

God did

Cen. xlv. 5.
whenever t^o

another,

fcound.els envy and are angry at them.

3.

fo

inany
SivJ't.

Havitig the appearance of anger ; having the tiFeft of anger.
'1 He n.nth w nd i iv
h away rain : fo doth an
angry couiienancc a backbiting tongue.

Give me thine aw^//, we*II to the river, then".

Provt XXV. 23,

My mulick playing far off, 1 will betray
Tawny-finn'd filh ; my bending book Ihall pierce
Their fiimy ;avys<
Sbekejptare.

me before you to prcfervc lit'c.
rliink

per jjic

She alio had an angle in her hand; but the taker
was I'u taken, that Ihe had forgotten taking.

Did.

A'NGER. n.f. [A word of no certain

;

nor wince, nor fpcak a word.

A'n GRY. adj. [from o.'^fr.]
I. Touched with anger; provoked.
Oh let nut the Lord be angry, and will fpeak:

;

human.

[horn angry.] Inanaii-

gry manner ; furiourty ;

fels, as in the opening of a vein or artery.

interl'edliiig

Harvey*

pect no relief from cordials.

A'ti GKihY. ad'v.

pod.
ti.

Militin.

eifias.

A'ngober. n./. A kind of pear.
A'ncour. »._/! [angor, hut.] Pain.

Nor look upon the iron angiily,

[from ayand er'TTt^j/.a.] Such plants
as have but one fingle feed in the feed-

Tifitu, to cut.]

[from angle.] He that 6(hes

feed upon infefls; as is well known to anglers,
Raywho bait their hooks with them.
A'nglicism. n.f. [from .^«^///j, Lat.]
form of fpeech peculiar to the Englifh
language ; an EngliOi idiom.
They corrupt their Itile with untutored angli-

difcourfe of the

(/.otof,

Angio'tomy.

n.J'.

Neither do birds alone, but many fi rts of filhes,

and

Angiomonospe'r Motjs. «<^'.
firoF

.

He, like a patient angler, ere he ftrook.

."Vncio'cr APHY. «./. [from iyfjic,. and
yja(pw.] A defcription of veflels in the

n. /.

AJdif^n,

the whole country vi\\h angle- rfids.

A'n g l e r

indifcretion,

charitably to be pitied, than their exception ei her

;

Shahefpeare.

A'ngle-rod. n.f. [fl^ij-f/ rW^, Dutch.]
The ftick to which the line and hook are

veflels of a human body.

By doom of battle.
Milton.
3. Belonging to angels; fuiting the nature
or dignity of angels.
It may be encouragement to confider the pleafure

blance of angels ;

Why, how now, Hecat ? you look angerly.

^o'yo?.]

Retreated in a filent valley, fing
With notes angelical to many a harp
Their own heroick deeds, and haplefs fall

The quality of being angelical

it is

:

now written angrily.

human body

Sbahefp.

1'he plcafant'I> angling is to fee the filh
Cut with her golden oars the fiivcr llream,
And greedily devour the treacherous bait;

Would let them play a while upon the licpk.

and pernicious impodhumati'.ns.

ANCto'LOcy.

Ot.'icrs more mild.

The hear ts of all that he did angle for.

with an angle.

angerly to be grieved at, or (erioufly to be con.uted.
Care^u.

Refembling angels.

This feeming brow of jufiicc, did he win

He turnech the humours back, and maketh the
wound bleed inwards, and angererb malign ulcers

dilhonell

Sidney,

By this face,

fcfi.

To make painful.

Such jellers

muled upon fome

dangerous plot.

once upon a day.

It flB^^rV.Turenne,

gry manner ; like one oiFended

The flow-er cmfifts of many leaves, expanding

hearts: if he were Clcnt, ha

fit

Sometimes he angers me.
With telling nac of the moldwaip and the ant.

AKGETLICA. n.J. (Berry bearing) [^ra/yai A'tiCEKLY. adv. [from flsg'fr.] In an anLat.]

tifices, as fiihes are caught by a bait.
If he fpake courteoufly, lie angled the people*3

;

To fee a footman k ck'dthat took his pay.

Common or manured ange-

H^aller.

To try to gain by fome infinuatiiig ar-

2.

Who w; aid auger the meaiieft arcil'an, which

iias

large channelled fecis.
The Ipecies arc, x.

tb.

from a/!^o>:

winged leuvcs divdeJ into large figments; its fta.ics are hojow and jointed; the
flowers grow in an umbfl u^ion the tops of the
ffallcs, snJ cohfift of five leaves, lucceeJcd by two
Ic

S'-'

Pain, or i'iii.-irt, of a fore or fvvelling.
In this fenlc it feems plainly deducible

2.

he ladies angling in the cryftjl lalte,

Fea;t on the waters with the prey they talte.

Shahjfeare.

Sclf-mettie tires fci'.ti,

jical.
1

'1

A full hot horfe, »'ri being a'.low'd his wiy,

.\.

In

chirurgery,

painful j

inflrtmed j

fmarting.
This

A N I

A N I

A N G
TT.Ii fcnim, bting accompin'ieJ l>y

At thinner Anhela'tion. »./.

and,
wanQng it« due tegrefs into the malt, fitrt gathers
intj a hard fwclling, and, in a /ew days, ripens

fUU of the blood, growj rei ind afii;ry

H^i/tnuin,

into matter, and fo difciiarj^rth.

aft of

;

Lat.] The
of being out

[anljslo,

panting ; the

ftate

of breath.

Anhelo'se. adj.

Out of
labouring of being

[anhelus, Liit.]

breath ; panting ;
cut of breath.

A'ncuish. a./, [angot^, Fr. angor, Lat.]

-O/V?.

Exceffive pain either of mind or body;
applied to tlte mind, it means the pain

Ame'nted. adj.

of/onozv, and is feldom ufed to fignify
other paiEons.

An i'g h t s. adi). [from a for at, and night.]

Fairy Sijuen.

True viilue'a f(-ul 's always in all dteds uU. Donne.
They had pcrfecutors, whofe invention was as
Wit and malice confpirea
.great as tlieir cruelty.
to find out fuch deaths, and thofe of (uch incredithe manner of dying was the

4>le anguifh, that only

puniAment, death itfelf the deliverance.

which may be put into

life, or

n. /.

Punifhment.

Dmnc.

parliament,!! is ufual
When
to have the controverfy handled by pamphlets on
both fiJeij without the Icaft ammadverfiM upon the

'\

Angula'rity. n.f. [from «»^«/ar.] The
quality of being angular, or having
corners.
A'ngularly. adv [from angular. ] With

3.

f Wliolc-footeJ or hoofed, as the horfe and afs

r Such as chew not the cud, as fwine;
^ Ruminant, or fuch at chew the cud ; di-

for a cenfure

Such as have perpetual and hollow horns.
r Beef-kind,

an ice arrgularly figured.

^ Sheep-kind,
t Goat-kiiid.
Such as have lolid, branched, and deciduous

to the fccular court.

4. Perception ; power of notice : not in ufe.
The foul is the folc percipient which hath ammadvtrjhn and fenfe, properly fo called. Glanvtlle.

Anim adve'rsive. adj.
•vert.]

[from animadThat has the power of perceiv-

ing ; percipient : not in ufe.
The ref refcntation of objcfts to the foul, the
only antmadvirjive principle, is conveyed by motions made on the immediate organs of fenfe.
Glanvilk.

Beyle.

A'n oularness. n./. [from angular."] The Ani M adve'rsiveness. n.f. [froma«/>»quality of being angular.
adverJi-Je.] The power of animadverting,
A'n G u L A T E D. adj. [from angle.] Formed
Did.
or making judgment.

horns, as the deer-kind.

Four part , or quadriluica, as the rhinoceros
and hippopotamus.
1^
(^Clawed or digitate, having the foot divided into
f Two-paris or toes, having two nails, as the
camel-kind
<

j

(_

Topazes, amcthyfts, or emeralds, which grow in
the fiflurcs, are ordinarily cryftalliz-d, or ihot into
wb^'reas, in the (hata, th y arc

as

gularity ; oor:iered form.

Dafl.

A'n gu LOUS. aJ/. [from angle.] Hooked;

of the decorum nf the ftage, if he
had n-it ufed extreme fevcrity in his judgment of
Dryden.
the incomparable Shakefpcare.

If the Author of the univerfe animadverts vf on

N ir can it be a difference, that the parts of

men heie below, how much more will it become
him to do it upon their entrance into a higher date

and angu-

fincc the coherence of the parts

of thefe VI l\ be of as dlfiicult a conception.
Ghr.ville.

of being?

He that palTcs cenfures, or inflifts punidiments.
Cod is a ftridobferver of, and a fevere animad-

ftrait.

angujlus.]

fuch as prffumc to partake of thf>l>
South.
myi^erii's, vvithout fuch a prepaiation.

verter uport,

The ail ;)f making narrow; draiteiiing;
the ftate of being narrowed.

The caule may be referred either to the grufrouinefs of the blood, or Vj ohAiuCt'vjn >'t the
"-.n r)mewhe!e in its paiiage, by fouiC an^uflarhn
]ViJemaii.
Ufoa it b^ j>ait of the tumour>

Griiu

Ani MA dve'rtbr.o./ [fvora auimad'vert.]

c v'iT. aJ/. [aBgu^Ms, Lit.] Narrow;
[fro.Ti

In both fenfcs

with the particle u/>on.

angular.
folid bidles are held togcrher by hooks,

punilliment5.

A'NIMAL. n.f. [animal, Lat.]_
I.

V

r A Ihortcr fnout and rounder head, as the
cat-kind
i
and head, as the dog-kind.
t A longer fnout ai
.The lelfcr, the vermin orweaici-kind.
:

fh'juld not animad-vert on him, who was a pain-

2. 'I'oinflift

have

Many foreteeth, or cutters, in each jaw
The greater, which have

ful obfcrvcr

Anoulo'sity. a,/ [ftomangulcuj.] An-

either

1 Divided, which have either
Broad nails, and an human (hape, as

To pafs cenfures upon.
I

found in rudcitfmj>s, |jkc yellow, purple, .ind green
pebbles.
H^ccJward,

;

apes;
J
2 Narrower, and more pointed nails,
which, in rcf()e6l ofthcir teeth, are divided into fuch

Lat.]
1,

Many^es or claws

C Un(^:"!ed, as the elephant ;

To ANIMADVE'RT. -J.n. {animadwrto,

with angles or corners.

vidcd into

l_

degradation, and the delivering the perfon over
Ayliffe'i Parergon.

as,

;

I Cloven-footed, having the hoof" divided into
[*Twi) principal parts, called bil'ulca, either

has a rcl.ition to a fpiritual punilhmcnt, but an

.

n./.

"Hoofed, which are eitlier

An ecclcfiaftica! cenfure, and an ecclefiaftical
animad^uerjion, are different things;

Turbinate, a^pcriwinkles, fnails, &c.
as infers of a.i forts.

Vivipa'ous haiiy arim.t's, or quadrupeds, are either

In law.

angles or corners.
Another put of the fame folution afforded us

Ang csta'tion.

(
__l.efier,

animad-verjlfjn has only a refpedt to a temporal one

The diftance of the edges of the knives from one
another, at the dillance of four inches from the
angular point, where the edges of the knives meet,
was the eighth part of an inch. Nenul!,ns Opiicks,

A

r Univalve, as limpets ;
< Bivalve, asoyfleis,mufcIes, cockles;

S-wi/t.

autl'ors.

2. Confiding of an angle.

f!

Teft.iceous, either

When the objeft of ««;'-

a bill is debating in

%. Having angles or corners; cornered.
As for the figure of ciyftal, it is for the moft

lous invol(itior« ;

Covered wi.th a tegument, cither
fCrudaceous, as lobfters and crab-fifh.

madverjion is mentioned, it has the particle on or upon before it.

Of confcience, but of fitnc, and be

.angu/ated figures j

Terrellrial, as naked fnaits.

! ?\ Aqiiatick, as the poulp, cuttle-fi/h, &c.

Clarendttn.

iharp aritnadverjions.

2.

part hexagonal, or fix cornered, being built upon
a confufcd matter, from whence, as it were from
a root, angular figures arife, even as in the amethyft and bafaltes.
Brcivn's Vulgar Erroun

Naked,

[ammad'vei^o,

Reproof; fevere cenfure ; blame.
He difmifled their coramiliioners with fevere and

1.

ejcceffively

all

divided into
"Greater, and thofe either

receive

Lat.]

Anguiftfi, not that 'twas fin, but that 'twas fhe.

A'ngvlar. adj. [ftflm angle.

and ferpents.
fanguineous fiHies, except ths
whale k'nd.
l_
Exfan;uineous, or without blood, which may bs
toifcs,

Gills, as

DiS.

Ani madve'rsion.

Drydeiu

Feel no touch

C Aquatick, as the whale kind,

^ Terrcllria), as quadrupeds;
{_ Oviparous, as birds.
I

But one ventricle in the heart, as frogs, tor"

;

animation.

AfKGvtsHto.at//. [from angui_^.] Seized

<<

J

Soktb.

Not ftopt by bufinefs, nor compns'd by reft

cither

r Viviparous,

Ani'leness. In./, [ani/itas, Lat.] The
being an old
Ani'lity.
'^^^^ ^^
5
woman the old age of women.
A' n MAOhE. adj. [from a«/»/a/^.] That

Perpetual arguijh fills His aniious bieaft.

No mufick cheers hiro, nor no feal) can.pleafc.

f Two ventricles in their heart, and thofe

)

A'nil. n./. The (hrub from whofe leaves
and ftalks indigo is prepared.

By occaflon wak'd, and ci.''cum((an:ial;

Animals are either
'Sanguineous, that is, lucb aa hare blood, which
breathe either by
pLungs, having cither

lady takes great exceptions at your ill hours.
Stake/feare.

Or arguijb, in her heart, is hard Co tell.

anguilh ; tortured ;
pained : not in ufe.

Frul-

In the night time.
Sir Toby, you muft come in earlier uni^iri; my

Not all fo cheerful feemed flie of fi(;lit,

V\nMt't^Mt Mignijh, when 'tis feve.al.

are endowed alfo with fenfation and fpongives two

Mr. Ray
taneous motion.
fchemcs of tables of them.

trated ; brought to nothing.

As was her Uucr; whether dread did dweit.

with

[aneantir, Fr.]

Animals are fuch beings, which, befides
the power of growing, and producing
their like, as plants and vegetables have,

A living creature corpsjj-eal, diHinft, on
the one fide, from pure fpirit ; on the

<

Oiily two large iind rcrna,kjble fKet:cih, all
which are ph;. tivorous, and are called the hare-

kind.

Kay.

Vegetables are proper enough to repair an'^ma/i,
aa being near of the fame fpec-fick graviry with
the animal juices, and as confi.ling of the Umc
paits with animal fubl>anccs> fpirit, water, fait,
oil, earth ; all which are contained in the fap
they der'vt^ from the earth. ylrOuthnot on j^'hncnts.
Sonic of the animated lut.Jt.inces have various
organical or inftrumenial parts, fitted "for a v:i~
riety of motions from place to place, and a fpring
of life within themfclvcs, as bcafVs, birds, fifhcs,
and iniefts ; thefe are called animals. Other ani-

mated I'ublVances aie called vegetables, wliich have
vvithin themfclvcs the principles of anotlier fort
of life and gro.vth, and of various produiJtions of
leaves and fruit, fuch as we lee in plants, herbs,
fVatu's JLogici.
and trees.

other, from mere matter.
z. B,,

5

A N I
man, tir.t he is zjlupid animal.

A'nimal. adj. [afi/ma/ij, Lat.]
That which belongs or relates to ani-

I .

mals.
There are thing* in the world of Tpirits, where-

Warr!our« Cic fires with animated founds;
Pours balm into the bleeding lovei's wounds. Prfe.

A'ni MATE NESS. n.J'. [from
The Hate of being animated.
1.

JVatti's Logkk.

Animal fundlions, diftinguiihed from
natural and 'vital, are the lower powers
of the mind, as the will, memory, and
imagination.
Animal life

oppofed, on one fide,
to intelleBual, and, on the other, to ve-

J.

is

getable.

4. Animal is ufed in oppofuion 10 fpiritual
or rational; as, the animal nature.

Anima'lcule. n.f.

A fmall animal

;

\animalculum, Lat.]

particularly thofe which

are in their firft and fmal'cft ftatc.
We are to know, that they all come cf the feed
of «m»ifl.W« of their own land, that were before
laid there.
Raj.

Anima'lity. n.f. [from ««/'»»«/.] The
ftate of animal exiftence.

The word animal firft only fignifies human an'iIn tlie minor propofition, the word animal, for the fame reafon, fignifiea the animaliiy of
a goofe : thereby it becomes an ambiguous term,
and unfit to build the conclufion upon.
H^attt.

waiily.

reA'NIMATE. -v. a. [animo, Lat.]
I» To quicken
to make alive; to give
;

life to :

as, the foul animates the body
;

man

mull have been animated by a
higher power.
c. To give powers to; to heighten the
^Jowers or effedl of any thing.
But none, ah

!

none can animate the lyre,

And the mute ftrings with vocal fouls infpire

third day's work.
They are the
w^hich is the word of animaticn.

;

AsHclen,in wbofe eyes ten thoufaod Cupids dwell.
Drydfn.

To encourage; to incite.
The more to aeimart the people, he flood on
high, from whence he might be btft heard, and
cried unto them with a loud »oice.
KnclUs.

He was avimaiiJ to eipeft the papacy, by the
prediflion of a foothfaycr, that one fliould faceted Pope Leo, whofc name fliould be Adrian.

Bacon.

A'n I m a t e aJj. [from To animate.'^ Alive
.

polTefling animal life.
All bodies have fpirits and pneumatical parts
within them ; but the main differences between
animate and inanimate, are two
the firft ip, that
:

thefpirits o(i\:i\n%sammatttre ill contained within
themfelvci, and are branched in veins and fecret
is ;

and, in living creatures, the

fpirits have not only

branches, but certain tells or

feats, where the principal fpirits do refide, and
whereunto the reft do refort : but the fpirits in
things inanimate are (hut in, and cut off by the
tangible parts, and are not pervious one to ano-

ther, as air is in fnow.

Baun,

Nobler birth

Of creJtures animaa with gradual Hfe,
Of growth, fenfe, reafoo, all fammM up in man.
There are fcveral topicks ofcd againft athcifm
and idolatry ; fuch as the vifible marics of divine
wifdom and goodrefs in the works of the creation,
the vital union of fouls with matter, and the admitrabte ftrufiure ai animate boaies.

2.

iirft

Viachun.*

A wri ler

of annals.
that

f .^yrm/ww.

A'NNALS.

Atterhury,

n.f.

HiHories digelled i«
the exadt order of time ; narratives in
which every event is recorded under its
proper year.

Bacon.

The ftate of being enlivened.
Two general motions in all animalion are its
beginning and encreafe ; and two more to run
through its ftate and declination.
Briywnt fu/^ar Erraun.

Could you with patience hear, or I relate,
the tedious anr,ah of our f.ue ;
Through fuch a train of woes if I ihould run.
The day would fooner than the talc be done

O nymph

A'kim AT ivt. ad/, [from animate.] That

!

!

which has the power of giving life, or

f)ry^.'ff.

We

are aftured, by many glorious examples in the
<»7m/j of our religion, that every one, in the like

animating.

Anima'tor. n.f. [from animate."]

That

circumftances of diftrefs, will not aft and argue
thus ; but thus will every one be tempted to aft.

which gives life ; or any thing analogous to lift, as motion.
Thofe bodies being of a congenerous nature, do
readily receive tlieimpreffions of their motor, and,
if not fettered by their gravity, conform themfelvcs

to iituations, wherein they beft unite to their animator.
Bmun.

Animo'se.

adj. [animefut, Lat. J
offpirit; hot; vehement.

R^gert,

A'wNATS.B.y; ivithoutfingular.

heat ; vehemence of temper. Di£t.

nity.

a difpofition to
break out into outrages, than the outrage itfelf.
They were fure to bring paftion, ammofity, and

it

may be fixed.

^-^— —— then

the light and glory

More rev'rend grows, and more doth win,
Which elfe ihcws wat'rifli, bleak, and thin.
Heriert.

When you purpofe to anneal, take a plate of iron

fcx, one does not know to what outrages they may

made fit for the oven ; or take a blue ftone, which
being made fit for the oven, lay it upon the crofi

MJifm.

_

Ayliffe's Parergcn.

But when thou doft atmeal in glafs thy ftory,

If there is not fome method found out for allaying thefe heats and animofitiei among the fair

proceed.

Coiuell.

To Anne'al.'v. a. [aelan, to heat, Saxon.]
1. To heat glafs, tftat the colours laid oa

malice enough of their own, what evidence foever
they had from others.
Ctarendcn.

each other to greater heights than our ftate parties have done 5 who, the more to inflame their
paflions, have mixed religious and civil amincjiiin
together ; borrowing one of their appellations from
the church.
Swift.

the rate of £r(l

Malles faid in the Romifh church for
the fpace of a year, <Jr for any pther
time, either for the foul of a perlbn deceafed, or for the benefit of a perfon
living.

paflionate malig-

It implies rather

becaufe

one year's profit.
2.

Animo'sity. it.f. [animefitaj, La.t.] Vehemence of hatred ;

Firft fruits ;

fruits paid of fpiritual livings, is after

Full
Z>/V?.

[annates

Lat.]
1.

Animo'seness. n.f. [fiotaoHimofe.] Spirit ;

num-

tvithout fingular

ber. {annaks,'L'iX.'\

froiucai,

Peacham>

bars of iron.

Which her own inward fymmetry reveal'd.
And like a pifture /hone, in glafs anneal^ J. Dryd*
2. To heat glafs after it is blown, that it

may not break.

A'nise. n.f. [anifum, Lat.] A /pecies of
3. To heat any thing in fuch a manner as
apium orpardey, with large fweet-fcentto give it the true temper.
ed feeds. This plant is not worth pro- To ANNE'X. 'V. a. [anneilo, annexum,
Lat.
pagating in England for ufe, bccanfe
annexer, Fr.]
the feeds can be had much better and
1. To unite to at the end ; as, he annexed
cheaper from Italy.
Miller.
a codicil to his will.
Ve pay the tythe of mint, and anife, and cum2. To unite, as a fmaller thing to a
min, an J have omitted the weightier matters of the
greater
as, he annexed a province to
law, judgment, mercy, and faith
thtfc ought ye
;

:

his kingdom.

to have done, and not to leave tlie otlier undone.

A'nker. n.f.

Matt, xxiil. 23.
[aneier, Dutch.]
liquid

A

meafure chiefly ufed at Amftcrdam. It
is the fourth part of the awm, and contains two ftekans
each ftekan confifts
of fixteen mengles ; the mengic being
equal to two of our wine quarts.
:

Ci>amiert.

A'nkle.
Dutch.]

[ancleop, Saxon ; anckel,

». f.

The joint which joins the foot

to the leg.
One of liis anHes was much fwrlled anl ulcerated on the infide, in feveral places.
Wijtman,

My fimple fyilem fnall fuppofe,

That Alma enters at the toes ;
That then fhc mounts by juft aegrees

Up to the anUti, l-.g,, and knees.
Fritr,
A'n k l e-bo n e n.f. [from ankle and Lone.]
The bone of the ankle.

3.

To aviw.e. a pofieriori ; annexion always
prefuppofing fomething : thus we may
fay, puniihment is annexed to guilt,
but not guilt to puniftiment.
Concerning fate or dcftiny, the opinions of
thofe learned men, that have written thereof^
may be fafely received, h.^ri they not tlieieunta

anntxcd and laftened an

The ftiin-bone, trom the knee to the rnftep, is
made by fljadjv/ing one half of the leg with t fin-

if

made it more general an
than it is.

.itable necellity,

and

univsrfally powerful
Raleiifi.

Nations will decline fo low
From virtue, which is reaf>n, that no wrong.
But juftice, and feme fatal <urfe anntaCd,
Deprives them ot their outward liberty.
Mllrtiu
1 me^n not the authi^rity, which is amtt-xeit to
your ofHce ; 1 fpeak of that only which is inborn
and inherent to your perlbn.
DrycUn*
He cannot but love virtue whf^rcvor it is, aoji
annex happinefs always to theexercife of it.

.

BeniUy,

A'n r MAT ED. participial adj. [from animau.] Lively j vigorous.
Vol. L

.

Their own annalift has given the fam^ t'tle t:i

The aft of animating or enlivening.

_

Or chafte Diana bathing in the ftream
None can record their hcav'niy praile (o well

canals, as blood

.

No religious feiS ever carried their averfions for
:

Whether the learn'd Minena be her theme.

3.

dow given tinierncadi, a^ tii<; knee,
A' N N A L I s r n.f. [ from annals ]

Di^.

Plants or vegetables are the principal part cf the

ailing ou material beings, and their converfewith

each cither.

animate.'^

t^sanik-h tievivX (hcw!tfe!f by a flia«

gle (hal.-iw;

Anima'tioi^. n.f. [hom animate.'\

in our ideas are very dark and confufed ; fuch as
their union with animal naOkn, the way of their

1.

ANN"

A N K

By way of contempt, we fay of a ftupid

2.

jStttrhury.

The

temporal reward Is anntxcJ tj the bare
perfirmanc; of the aftioi\, but the eternal to the
Rogers.
obcdicncf^.

M

ANKfi'x.

ANN

ANN

ANN
annexed ; additament.

A day celebrated as
courfe of the year.

FiUing !n his firft attempt to be but like the
heaven, he hath obtained of men to be
the fame on earth, and hath accordingly aflTumcd
Brnvn.
the anntxit of divinity.

martyrs, the primitive chriftians met at the places
of their martyrdom, to praifc God for them, and
to obferve the anniverfar/ of their fufterings.

Ann e'x. «./. [from To annex."] The thing

1.

For encouragement to follow the example of

hiijhell in

Ankexa'tion. »./. [(torn annex.

Among the pleafant villages, and farms
Adjoin'd, from each thing met conceives delight.

MJton,
InfcAs fcldom ufe their offcnfive weapons, unand
anmy
them
alone,
lefs provoked : let them but
R'ynot.
.

Siillingfeet.
"l

Conjunflion ; addition.
If we can return to that charity and peaceable

t.

As one who long in populous city pent.
Where houfes thick, and fcwers, anncy the alri
Forth ifluing on a fummer's morn to breathe

returns in the

it

mindednefj, wliich Chrift fo vehemently recommends to us, we have his own promife, that the
whole body will be full of light, Matlb. vi. that
all other chriftian virtues will, ty way of concoHamtncnd.
mitance or annexatkn, attend them.

The aft of celebration, or performance,

2.

in honour of the anniverfary day.
Donne had never feen Mrs. Drury, whom he
has made immortal in his admirable anniverfariei,

n.f, [from the verb.] Injury;
moleftation ; trouble.
Sleep, Richmond, fieep in peace, and wake in

Anno'y.

Drydcn,

joy;

an ofKce in the Romifh
church, celebrated now only once a year,
but which ought to be faid daily through
the year, for the foul of the deceafed.

3. Anniverfary is

Good angels guard thee from the boar's anny,

into

Ayliffe's Farergon.

the church, whether by the prince's authority, or
the pope's licence, is a very great difpute.
Ayhffet Parcrgon.

AtiKivt'tLSAitY.aJJ.[anni-ver/arius,L&t.]
Returning with the revolution of the

All pain and joy is in their way ;
The things we fear bring lefa aisnoj
Than fear, and hope brings greater joy;
Dome,
But in themfelvcs they cannot (lay.
What then remains, but, after paft annoy,
DryJen.
To take the good viciditude of joy r

Union ;

Z.

aft or praftice

uniting.
How annixatUm of benefices

of adding or
firft

came

year ; annul! ; yearly.

Akne'xion. n. f. [from annex,] The aft

The heaven whirled about with admirable ce-

of annexing ; addition.

lerity,

engage the fears of men, by

It is ncceflary to

Anno'yakce. n,f. [from annoy.]
That which annoys ; that which hurts.

1

A grain, a duft, a gnat, a wand'ring hair,

annimrfary
Ray.

its

Any annoyance in th.it precious fenfc.

Crows, ravers, rooks, and magpies, are great

with chriftianity; but confefs the
honour and efteem for the martyrs, which they
expvefTcd by keeping their anniverfary days, and

Mortimer,

recommending their example.

annoyances to corn.

2.

Hotker.
eth out to the annoyance of others.
The greateft annoyance and difturbance of man-

anno domini, or A, D.
1751 ; that is, in the feventeen hundred and fifty-firft year from the birth

our Lord ;

Shakcfpcare.

_

The ftate of being annoyed ; 'or a^t of
annoying.
The fpit venom of their poifoned hearts brcak-

StiUin^Jlcet,

jfNNO DOMINI. [Lat.] In the year of

When it falls,

Shaktjf.

They dcrfy giving any worfliip to a creature,
as inconfiftent

Each fmall anr.exmcni, petty confequence,
Attends the boift'rous ruin.

finlfliing

viciflitudes.

the ar.nexku of luch penalties as will overbalance
Rogers.
temporal pleafure.

Anne'xment. »./. [froia annex,"]
1. The aft of annexing.
2. The thing annexed.

moft conllantly

Sbekefftare,

as,

k'nd has been from one of thofo two things, force
South,

or fraud.

Anni'hilaBLE. adj. [^tom annihilate.]
For the further annoyance and terrour of any
That which may be reduced to nothing ;
of our Saviour.
befieged place, they would throw into it dead
Pf^ilkins,
bodies.
that which may be put out of exiftence.
Akno'isance. «./. [from aawoy, but not
Anno'yer. n, f, [homTo annoy.] The
now in ufe.]
To ANNI'HILATE. -v. a. [ad and nihiAny hurt done
It hath a double fignification.
either to a publick place, as highway, bridge, or
common river j or to a private, by laying any

lum, Lat.]

To reduce to nothing

I.

;

to put out of

thing that may breed infection, by encroaching,
The writ that is brought
or fuch like means.
See Nuisance, the
upon this tranfgreflion.
Blount.
word now ufed.

exiftence.
any body to be utterly anmhilaud\ but that, as it was the work of the
omnipotency of God to make fomewhat of nothing, fo it requireth the like omnipotency to
turn fomewhat into nothing.
Bacon,
Thou taught'ft me, by making me
Love her, who doth neglecl both me and thee,
T' invent and praflife this one way c'anribilaie ail
three.
Doinc.
He defpaired of Ccd's mercy ; he, by a decollation fcf all hope, ann'ihllaud his mercy.
Bro-zvns Vulgar Errours.
Whofc fricndfliip can ftand agaiuft afl'aults,
ftrong enough to annihilate the fricndfliip of puny
lainds ; fuch an one has reached true conflancy.
It is impoffible for

like a lizard.

Annota'tion.

Some imagined,

Explications or remarks written

upon

It might

Does purpofe honour to you; to which
A thoufand pounds a-year, annual fup'port.
Stakfff. Henry VIII.
Out cf his grace he aJds.
3. That which lafts only a year.

The dying in the winter of tlie roots of plants
that are annual, fecmeth to be caufed by the
over-expence of the lap ; which being prevented,
they will fuperannuate, if they ftand warm. Bacon.
Every tree may, in fome fenfe, be faid to be
an annual plant, both leaf, flower, and fruit
proceeding from the coat that was fuperinduced

A

notes,

writer of
[Lat.]
or annotations ; a fcholiaft ; a

commentator.

water fufficient to a deluge
bufinefs was done,

I have not that refpeft foil the annotators, which
they generally meet wit!i in the v/orld.

Woodward.

Felion on the Clajfttks.

To deftroy, (o as to make the thing

To Anno'unce. 'V. a, [annondr, Fr. an-

over the wood the laft year.

1

ly ; every year.
By two drachms, they thought it

any thing.

has agreed.

Hooker.

Annihila'tion. n.f. [iroia annihilate.]
The aft of reducing to nothing. The
ftate of being reduced to nothing.

God hath his influence into the very cflence of
without which their utter annihilation
could not choofe but follow.
Hooker,
That knowledge, which as fplrits we obtain,
Is to be valued in the midft of pain
AnKibilaiion were to lofc heav'n more t
are not quite cxil'd, where thought can foar.
Drydcn.
things,

to proclaim.

AMNivE'RJARy. »./[«««/'w^»/«r;«j, Lat.]

heart ;

by a judi-

cial fentence.
Thole, mighty Jove, mean time, thy glorious

Annu'itant. n.f, [from annuity.] He

Atmcunc'd by Gabriel with the firft 1 knew. Mill,

To pronounce

;

to declare

Su-ifi.

care,

that poffcfles or receives an annuity.

Who model nations, publilh laws, announce
Or life or death.

To ANNO'y. -v. a. [annoyer, Fr.]

commode

Prior.

To in-

ANNUITY, n.f [annuiti, Fr.]
I. A yearly rent to be paid for term' of

him ;

He heaps in inward grief, that moft deftroys him.
Sidney,

Her joyous prefcnce and fweet company
In full content he there did long enjoy
Ne wicked envy, nor vile jealoufy.

His dear delights were able to ennoy. Fairy S^etn,

The dift'erences bet\veen
a rent and an annuity are, that every
rent is going out of land ; but an annuity charges only the granter, or his
heirs, that have affets by defcent.
The
fecond' llifterence is, that, for the re.coverys of an annuity, no aftion lies,
but only jJis writ of annuily againft the
granter.
life or years.

to vex ; to teaze ; to moleft.
Woe to poor man ; each outvyard thing annoys
;

:

We

a

the weight of one drachm.
Bro'wn's Vulvar Errcurs,
The whole ftrength of a nation is the utmoft
that a prince can raife annually from his fubje^s.

By all the prophets ; of thy birth at length
2.

There is no reafon, that any one commonwealth
fliould annihilate that whereupon the whoie world

;

fufficient to

becaufe the heart at one year
welgheth two drachms, that is, a quarter of an
ounce ; and, unto fifty years, annually encrealcth

fignify

Of the Mefliah 1 have heard foretold

agency of

deftroy the

To publifli

Ray,

A'nnually. Wv. [from fla«B«/.] Year-

nuncio, Lat.]

The flood hatli altered, deformed, or rather
annihihtcd, this place, fo as no man can find any
mark or memory thereof.
Raltigh.

To annul ; to

Annual for me the grape, the rofe, renew
The juice neGareous, and the balmy dew. Pofit,
2. That which is reckoned by the year.
The king's majefty

Boyle.

late.

ftom annus,

That which comes yearly.

1

appear very improper to publifh annowhereunto they re-

Annota'tor. n.f.

otherwife than it was.

3.

Lat.]

f.

[annuel, Fr.

Lat.]

tations, without the text itfelf

was created, and, when the
2.

[annota/io,

n.

books ; notes.

South.

diibanded and annihilattj.

An American animal,

A'NNOLIS. n.f.

perfon that annoys.

A'nnual. adj.

_,

\

A N O

A N O

granter, his heirs, or fucceflbrs ; but of
a rent, the fame adlions lie as do of land.
The third difference is, that an annuity
is never taken for affets, becaufe it is
no freehold in law ; nor ftiall be put in
execution upon a ftatute merchant, fta-

But drove with anodynes t' alTtiage the fmwt,
And mildly thus her med'cine did impart. D'yJ.
A'joiiyms^ or abaters o( pi.n

lient fubftances j. thofe tilings

1.

1

'I'o

.

make void

to nullify j

to

coafts, but thou

abro-

oil :

ihalt not arroint thyl'eif

TJiat which gives force to the law, is the authothat cnadh it i and whoever deftroys this

2.

To reduce to nothing

;

L^ght, -the i^ure work, ot Qod, to me 's extinCV,
And ail her various objects of delight
jirniujl'ti, which might in part iny grief have eas'd.

Mi/ion.

A'.N N UL A R. adj. [from annulus, Lat.]

In

the form of a ring.
That they might not,

'

in bending the arm or
le^, rife up, he has tied them to the bones by a*:-

Kular ligaments.

Chryne,

A'sNULARY, aJJ, [from annulus, Lat.]
Bicaufc. continual refpiration

neceflary, the

is

wind-pipe is made with anaaUry cartilages, that
the fides of it may not flag a.^d fall together. Ray.

A'nnulet. n.f. [^(toox anttului, Lat.]
1.

A little ring.
[In heraldry.]

difference or

.\

mark

of diilindlion, which the fifth brother of
any family ought to bear in his coat of
arms.
3. Annulets are alfo a part of the coatarmour of feveral families they were
anciently reputed a mark of nobility
and jurifdiflion, it being the cuftom of
;

prelates to receive their invelliture per

haculum IS annulum.
4. [In architedure.]

;

And fragrant oils the ftiSiin'd limbs ansiiit.'
Drydin.

In his axohted fl^'/h ftick biariih fangs.

The fmali

fquare

members, in the Dorick capital, under
the quarter round, are called, aimuhts.
5. Annulet is aHo ufcd for a narrow flat

moulding common to other parts of the
column
fo called, becaufe it encompaffes the column round.
Chambers.

Shultjp.

The

perfon that anoints.
Ano'malis.vi. n./. [from anomaly."] Anomaly ; irregularity ; deviation from the

cominon rule.

[ccpri'v.

and iftaX©-.]

Irregular ; out of rule ; deviating from
the general methotfor analogy of things.
It is applied, in grammar, to words
deviating from the common rules of
inflexion ; and, in ailronomy, to the

[annumfra,

a.

To add to a former number

Lat.]

;

to

unite to fomething before mentioned.

Ajjnvmer a'tion.
To

».

f.

[anni:>'!eratio,

Addition to a former number.

Laj.]

ANNU'NCIATE. -j. a.
To bring tidings
Lat ]

[annuncio,
;

to relate

fomething that has fallen out : a word
not in popular ufe,
Ansunci a'tion day. n.f. [from annunciate.']
The day celebrated by the
church, in memory of the angel's falutation of the bleffed Virgin ; folemnized
with us on the twenty-fifth of March.
I'rin thr day of the Mnrjunciaikrtf or L.idyi.'.-Tciiiatc on the incarnation of our blcflcd

I'.iv,
J>

.\.v .:

:

and fo upon all the feitivats of the year.
TayUr,

[x friv. and o»o^a.j

Notes en ike Dunctad.

Ano'n YMOUS LY. adv. [from anonymous.^
Without a name.
1 would know, wiicther the edition is to come
outamiyntoujiy, among complaints of fpurious edi-

tions.

Sivift,

A'norexy. n.f. [«jo;r;f(a.] Inappetcncy,
9.uincy.

or loatlung of food.

Ano'ther. adj. [from «« and o//at.]
Not the fame.

1.

He that iviU n.)t lay a foundation for perpetual
muft of ncccllity find ancficr rile of goLocke.
v.-rnment than that.
difordcr,

One more

2i

;

a

new

addition

to

tlie

former number.

A

What

feemingly irregular motions of the pla-

!

will

fourth ?
the line ftretch out to th' crack of

doom ?

nets.

Another yet ?— a feventh !

There will arife mtmalous didurbances not only

I'll fee

no more.
Shakeffeare.

in civil and artificial, but alfo in military officers.

Any other

any one elfe.

Bmvti^t fulgar Erroun.
He being acquainted with fomc chiraders of
every fpeech, you may at plcafure make him underhand onomahui pronunciation.
Holder,
Metals arc gold, filvcr, copper, tin, 1e.id, and
iron ! to which we may join that ammahus body,

3.

quickfilvcr or mercury.

So had amtber been, where he his vows addrcfs'd.
Dryden.
4. Not one's felf.

Lccks.

Ano'malouslv. ad-v. [from anomalous.]

;

Tn ANNU'MKRATE. v.

and

diate publilhers thereof fculking.

Di<3.
ad/, [from anomaly.]

Irregular ; applied in alb-onomy to the
year, taken lor the time in which the
earth paffeth through its orbit, dillinft
from the tropical year.

Ano'malous. adj.

other

e-ver

'I'hefe animalcules ferve alfo for food to another
amryni^us infedt oi the waters.
Rfiy*
I'hey would forthwith publiili flanders unpunifhed, the authors being atwrymcuS) the inime-

w iuld r.vc fee thy filler

Ano'inter. n.f. [from ansint.]

uled

this fenfc is

Ano'n YMOus. adj.
Wanting a name.

To confecrate by unftion.
I

Waller.

at

;

m

Are poui'd to walh his body, joint by joint.

3.

,

anon,, for now and then.
Full forty days he pafs'd, whether on hill
Sometimes, anon
Ihady vale, each n'ght.
Or harbourM in-one cave, is notreveal'd. Milton*

to be rubbed upon.

AnOmali'stical.

In the form of rings.

2.

To fmear

did the leaves infpire,

In

times.

for thine olive ihall cail his fru^t.

Warm waters then, in brazen caldrons borne.

R^g^n,
to obliterate.

authorit)', decs, in eficdt, atitiui the law.

I

Sometimes ; now and then

z.

with the

Dai:. xxvIiS 40.

rity

2.

Still as

Witli fuch a purple light they (hone.
As if they had been made of fire,
And fpre.iding Co, would llamc an^n.

or unguents.

gate ; to abolifh.

f

enoindre,

An7\nU'd let me be with deadly venom. Sbaktfft.
Thou (halt hive oliv. *ieos throughout all thy

[from nullas.']
;

[oinJre,

a.

To rub over with uncluous matter, as
oil,

Clarcritt^n,

An n u't. -v. a.

Arhathml.
-v.

part, oint, enoint, Fr.]

pcnce, beyond what his amtu'rty from his father

would bear.

Ben j'cn/tn.

However, witncfs, Hcav'n
Heay'n, witnefs thou amn ! while we difcharge
Freely rur part.
Milton.
He was not without defign at that prelent, 2^
(hall be made outitnon; meaning by that device
to withdraw himfelf.
ClareiKlcn,

occafions tlie pain \
fenfation of the brain, by

what deadens the

To- ANO'INT.

He was generally knmvn to be the fon of one
esri, and brother to anotlier, who fup^-'ljed his ex-

Shakefpeare,

.'

the

acrimony which

procuring fleep.

A yearly allowance.

A little fnow, tumbled about,
At:in becomes a mountain.
Will they came abroad anon?
Shall we fee young Obcr..ii

\

particular

or

Cotujell.

?"<;

wl^ich dciiroy

Quickly ; foon ; in a Ihcrt time.

I.

alimentary

(jf tiie

kind, are fucli things as relax the tenfion of the
alTeited nervous 6bres, as decoctions of cmol-

tute ilaple, or elegit, is a rent may.
2.

A N O

Irregularly ;

in

a manner contrary to

If one, man iin againlt anotbcry the judge lliall
judge him.
I Han-.uiltn. 25.
Why not of her ? prcferrM above the reft
By him with knightly deeds, and open love profefs'd;

A

man {hall have diffufed his life, his felf,
and his v.hole concernments fo far, that he can
weep his forrows with another's eyes ; when he
has another heart befiJes his own, both to /liare,
and t) fupport his grief.
South.

rule.

Eve was not folemnly begotten, but fuddenly
fra.Tied, and ancmaUuJJy proceeded from Adam.
Bryivns Vulgar Errcurs.']
»./.• [anomalie, Fr. anomalia, Lat. a»47^aX(5>-.]
Irregularity ; de-

ANO'MALY.

5.

viation from the common rule.
If we Ihould tiiance to find a mother debauching

her daughter, as fuch

fccn, we muft charge this

monili-rs have

fupplied.

of law.
If fin be good, and juft, and lawful,

it

is

no

more evil, it is no fin, no anomy.
Bramhall a^i'wji Hchhti.

.Vnodvne. adj, [from « andliim.] That Ano'n. adv. [Junius imagines it to be an
form of fpeaking for

which has the power of mitigating pain.

elliptical

Yet durft {h't not too deeply probe the wound,
At Itoptog ftiU die ncbler pant were found

that is, in one minttte ;

///

one,

Skinner from a

and ncan, or near ; Minjheiv from en on.]

4

;

1

South

fore.

Ano'thbroaines. art)'. [See Another GUESS.] Of another kind. This word
I

have found only in Sidney.

If my father had not plaid the hafty fool, I
might have had anotbergaines hulbaod than Da.
SiJtiCy:
metas.

Holder.

A'nomy. n.f. [afriv. andvofi®-.] Breach

Widely different much altered.
When the foul is beaten from its ftation, and
the mounds of virtue arc broken down, it Jjecomes quite another thing from what it was be.

been

upon a peculiar aronialy

and bafcncli of nature.
South.
1 do not purfue the many pfeudographies in
ufe, but intend to jhcw how moft of thcfc aft^matiei in writing might be avoided, and better

;

A

o't h e r g u is, adj. [This word, which
though rarely ufed in writing, is fomewhat frequent in colloquial language, I
conceive to be corrupted from another
giiife ; that is, of a different guij'e, or
manner, or form.] Of a different kind,

oh Hocus! where art thou

?

anoihirgmfi manner in thy time.

M 2

It ufed

-

to go' in
Ariulhnot.

A'nsateb

A'ksated. fl<^". [an/aius, Lii-I

Having

companying fuch as came to be regiftcrcd among

^

Are we fucccur'd ? are the Moors rejnovM?
Jlnfiver thefc queftions fitft, and then a thoufand

To fucceed;

ylntviT them altogether.

Dr/dcn.

_

To fpeak in oppofition.

Raltigb.

Mt!tttirto,xx'n. 46.
difcover the elemcntarj-

be faid, we may
Ingredients of things, I tnfwer, that it is not
reccflary that fuch a difcovery ftould be praftiit

S!>fk.

cab!e.

.

In operations upon bodies for their verfion or

'

fummons ; in which fenfe,

Hid ar/awV/cr his deed.
Some men have finned

principles of

Inunanityj and muft anjiurr for not being men.
Brown's Vsilgar Emuri.
If there be any abfutdity in this, our author

The night,

;

to give a juftificatory

\y\t\i fcr^

fo

Thou wert better in thy grave, than to tnfwer,

impudently fixed for

my la/l,

(kies.

Sbah

who have been the attthort and promoters of fuch

Locke.

7imfle,

How can we think of appearing at that tribu-

He wants a father to prolefl his .youth.
And rear him up to virtue. You muft bear
TItt future blame, and anfivcr 10 the world,
When yoo refufe the eafy honelV means
Seutbtrti,
Of talcing care of him.

nal, without being able to give a ready anf-wnus,
to the queftions which he (hall then put to
about the poor and the afflifted, the hungry and
jitterhury.
the naked, the fick and imprifoned ?

6.

To corr«fpond to

;

fatisfy

any claim or petidon of

eyes bade bim defend
hinUelf ; for no lefs than bis life would anfiver

A perfonal anfvier ought to have three qualiought to be pertinent to the matter in
hand ; it ought to be abfolute and unconditional
jlyllff.
it ought to be clear and certain.
ties ;

it

jobber.']

What difgufts me from having any thing to do

Revenge the jeering and difdain'd contempt

Of this proud king, who lludies day and night
To onjiviT all the debt he owes unto you,
Ev'n with the bloody payments of your deaths.
^haktjpcgrc,

He that maJces a trade of writ-

ing anfwers.

SidtKy.

*'

with anfiuer-johbtri,

is,

that they have

no conStB'ft.

fcicncc.

A'nswerable. aJj. [from an/nuer.]
That to which a reply may be made
I
as, the
that which may be anfwered
.

let his neck trj-aier for it, if there is any marSbatrffeare.
tial iaw in the world.
Men no fooner find their appetites uvanjivercdy
than they complain the times arc injurious.
iak'tgk.

That yearly rent is ftill paid, even as the former
cafualty itfelf was wont to be, in parcel meal ^aid

Bacon.

in and anfwertd.

5. To aft reciprocally..

.

Say, do'K thou yet the Roman harp command ?
Po the ftrings anfnver to thy noble hand ? Dryd.

10. To ftand as oppofite or correlative to

fomething elfe.
There can but two things
tion and
part,

t.

create love, p;rfec-

ufcfulnefs ; to which anftoerr on our
Admiration ; and, 2. Dcfire : and both

thcfe are centered in love

II.

A'nswerableness. >!./. [from an/werThe quality of being anfwerable."]

;

argument, though fubtle, is yet anf^erahk.
z. Obliged to give an account; obliged
to anfwer any demand of juftice j or
ftand the trial of an accufation..
Every chief of every kindred or family fliould
be anfwerablf, and bound to bring forth every cnc
of tliat kindred, at all times, to be juftificd, when
be fhould be required, or charged with any treafon
Spenfer^i Stale of Ireland.
or felony.
Will any man argue, that if a phyfician ftiould
manifeftly prcfcribc poifon to all his patients, he
cannot be juftly pimilUcd, but is anJvKrabU only
to God f

To bear proportion to.

charge, than to other men, bccaufe that
would be to m.ike church government fl^wfr<i/i/f
Swif'.
for the errors of human nature,
their

Weapons muft needs be dangerous things, if
they aitjwertd the bulk of fo prodigious a pcrfun.
Svifi.

S'jiifi.

He cannot think ambition more juftly laid to

taylor.

3.

Correfpondcnt,

DOT.

able.

A'nswerer. n.f. [hom anfwer.']

He that anfwers ; he that fpeaks in return to what another has fpoken.

1

know your mind, and I will fatisfy it; neither

I

In law, a confuution of a charge exhibited againft a perfon.

3-

a

greater or lefler height, anpwerab/y to the greater
ffoedward.
or lelfer intenfcncfs of the heat.

I. do it like a niggardly anfiverer, going no
Sidney.
further than the bounds of the queftion

He'll call you to fo hot an anjtver for it.
Shakifftare.
That you (hall chide your trefpafs.

A'nswer-jobber. n.f. [from «»/^*r and

right or juftice.
Zelmane with rageful

It.

Brerewood *« LanguagewIt bears light forts, into the atmofphere, to

of juftice.

f«naething elfe.
A feaft is made for laughter, and wine maketh
Bury ' but money anjvieriib all things.
Ecd. X. 19.

To

free from iilands, they are anftoerab/y deeper.

An account to be given to the demand

z.

to fuit with.

As in water face anjiutrah to face, fo the heart
i'rw. xxvii. 19.
of man to man.
7. To be equivalent to ; to {land for

8.

In due proportion ; with proper correfpondence ; fuitably.
The broader feas are, if they be entire, and

pofition.
to his
It was a right anfwer of the phyfician
patient, that had fore eyes: If you have more
plcafure in wine, than in your fight, wine is good.

How they have been iince received, and fo well
inrrproved, let thofe cnftvn- either to God or man,

Bockeri.

A'nsweraBLY. aif-a, [from anjkuerabk.l

That which is faid, whether in fpeech
or writing, in return to a queftion, or

I.

fliould

quifite.

Each battle fees the other's umbcrd face.
A'nswer. fi.f. [from To anj'hver.]

Swift.

wife council.

petition for things needful,
be forac anftoerabU fentence ofthanks provided particularly to follow, is not tt-

That, to every

there

SlaUffcare.

Fire anfiven fire, and, by their paly beams.

To give an account.

5.

.

Afiltatr

There be no kings whofe means are anftverahle
Ra/eigb»unto other men's dcfires.
7. Relative ; correlative.

To be over-agalnft any thing.

16.

nade little impreflion on myfelf ; but 1 cannot
tnharrfor my family.

If anfiuerahle ftyle I can obtain.

Of my celeftial patronefs.
S. Equal ; equivalent.

with thy uncovered body, this extremity of the

Lotte.

iruft anfivtr for it.

To vindicate

perhaps, taken.

Shahffeari.
the

in

though figu-

ratively, the following paflagc may be,

did th' edi£k infringe

Milicn,.

5 . Suitable ; fuited.
The following, by certain eftates of men, anjiuerahh to that which a great perfon himfelf
profclTcth, as of foldiers to him that hath been
employed in the wars, hatli been a thing well
Bactmm
taken even in monarchies.

Bacon.

To appear to any call, or authoritative

15.

To

If the firft man tliat

al-

not
the tiial in great quantities doth
many.
anftvcr the trial in fmall : and fo deceiveth
teration,

be accountable for : withy«'
Thole many had not dared to do evil

account of:

By name to come cail'd charity, the foul

Of all the reft.

when the
Jafon followed her counfel, whereto
fleece.
eveiitbad anhvertdyhc again demanded the

No man was able to a^ifieer bim a word.

4.

wimed

to produce the

event.

more.

i.

Only add
Deeds to thy knowledge anfieeraile ; add faith.
Add virtue, patience, temperance ; add love

Sbaiejftare,

Till I and my aflFairs are axfivertd.

14.

Proportionate ; fuitable.

,

He dies that touches of this fruit,

To fpcak in return to a queftion.

K

the worthies, brought forth children anjiviral'le ia
Raleigbt
quality to thofe that begot them.'

To comply with.

13.

aHtificoriittt.'^

a.

objcfts, and the

ends
moft likely to e,.fivtr the
done, all 15
of our charity; and when this is
lett
done that lies in our power J the reft muft be
Atterbury.
to providence.

[The etymology is

uncertain; the Saxons had anbi7apian,
but in another fenfe ; the Dutch have
1.

doth give, anf-werahle enough in fome features and
Sidney.
colours, but erring in others.
The daughters of Atlas were ladies who, ac-

.

handles.

It was but fuch a likenefs as an imperfea glaft

To perform what is endeavoured or
intended by the agent.
Our part is, to choofe out the moft deferring

12.

handles ; or fomething in the form of

To A'NSWER. V. n.

ANT

A N S

A N S

will

.

2.

He that manages

controverfy againft one that has written firft.
the

It is very unfair in any writer to employ ignorance and malice together ; becaufe it gives his
Stvift.
arfiverer double work.

Ant. n. /

[aensem. Sax. which Junius
imagines, not without probability, to
have been firft contracted to aemt, and
An emmet; a
then foftened to ant.]
pifmire.
A fmall infeft that lives in
great numbers together in hillocks.
We'il fet thee to fchool to an ant, to teach thee

Staiejfearu
there's no lab'ring in the winter.
Methinks, all cities now but ant-hills are.

Where when the feveral labourers I fee
For children, houfe, provifion, taking pain,
They're all but antt carrying eggs, flraw, and
Donne.
gran
Learn each fmall people's genius, policies
realm
bees.
and
the
of
Pope.
The anti republick,

Ant-bear. ». /

[from ant and bear.l

An animal that feeds on ants.
Divers quadrupeds feed upon infcfts ; and fome
as two forts of tamanduas
upon ants, which therefore are called in Englifti
Ray,
ant-beari.
live wholly upon them ;

Ant-hi LL, or HILLOCK. ».y; [(rotti ant
and bill.] The fmall protuberances of
earth in which ants make their nefts.
Put blue flowers into an ant-bill, they will be
becaufe the ants drop upon them
their ftinging liquor, which hath the efteil of oil
ftained with red ;

of vitriol.

Jfay»

Thofe who hive few am-HJMi, have eafily
perceived

pettccived thofe fmall beapi of

com aliout their

MMJln.
contra£lion for and it, or rather
An't.
and if it ; as, ati't pleafe you ; that is,

a

and if it pleafe you.

Anta'cONIST. n. f. [a>Ti and iiyivi^a.]
1. One who contends with another ; an
It implies

generally a pcr-

foaal and particular oppoiition.

Our arttagontiii in thele coatioveriies may have
met with istat not unlike to Icliacius.
Ilooier.

Kone daring to appear antagorij},

MVton.

It is not fit that the hiftory of a perfon flioulJ

club conCfls of thofe

Anteambula'tion.
and ambulatio, Lat.]

ftroyed.

Dia.

That which foftens pain

1.

Going before ; preceding.

Items a thing that higiily
equity and goodnefs.
2.

n. /
[Lat. from
from ul\aiax>^eiu, to drive

reproaches

elTentiat

Smtth,

It has to before the thing which is fuppofed to follow.

Did the blood firft exift, antecedent fa the formation of the heart ?

But that is to fet the effcft be-

fore the caufe.

tnayjl get thy living ivithout craft. Craft,
in the firft place, fignifies fciencc or oc-

1.

Bentley.

2. In

in-

the

noun

to

which the

Smith's Rhetorick.

Antaphrodi'tick.
againft,

adj.

[from itz),

and 'a^^o^itt, Venus.]

That

which is efficacious againft the venereal
difeafe.

airowX^^ic,

[atr), againft,

[atr), againft,

and

ifxl^, the bear or northern conftella-

The fouthern pole, fo called, as

cppofite to the northern.

Downward as far as antarFixi.
Mi/lor.
They that had fail'd from near th' antardick pole.
Their treafure fafe, and all their vcdels whole,
Wallir.

Antarthri'tick. adj. [i,T<, againft,
and etfSfiTi;, the gout. Good againft
the gout.]

Aktasthma'tick. eidj.
«urSft«.]

ANTE.

F

from am and

Good againft the afthraa.

A Latin particle fignifying be-

which is frequently ufed

in

com-

pof:tions ; a», antediluvian, before the

6

Antedilu'vian. n.f.

One thaflived

before the flood*

We are fo far from repining at God, that he
hath not extended t.he period of cur lives to the
longevity of the anledilufiani, that we give hira
thanks for contracting the days of our trial.
Bentley.

A'nt ELOPE,

[The etymology

n. f.

uncertain.]

A

is

goat with curled or

wreathed horns.
The anielife, and wolf both fierce and fell.

Antemeri'dian. adj. [from

ante,

be-

fore, and meridian, noon.] Before noon.

Anteme'tick. adj. [in),
'rif).lu,

againft, and
That which has the

to vomit.]

venting or ftopping vomiting.

In logick, the

firft

propofition of an

enthymeme, or argument confifting only
of two propofitions.
thofe whofe
particle if;

move

:

parts

are united

propofitions

are

by the conditional

as, (/"the fun be fixed, the earth muft

i/" there

the world.]
That which was
before the creation of the world.

mitndus,

Antenu'mber. ». / [from ante and
number.
The number that precedes
"]

Conditional or hypothetical

be no fire, there will be no fmoke.

The firft part of thife propofitions, or that wherein
the other is called the cmjejuenl.

H^uttt't Ligici.

another.
Whatfoever virtue is in numbers, for conducing
to confent of notes, is rather to be afcribed to the
antenumhr, than to the entire number, as that the
found returneth after fix, or after twelve; fo that
tlie feventhor thirteenth is not the matter, but the
fixth or the twelfth.

Bacon.

[from antece-

A'ntepast. n.f. [from ante, before, and

In the ftate of antecedence, or
going before previoufly.

pajfum, to feed.]
A foretafte ; fomething taken before the proper time.
Were we to cxpeft our blifs only in the fatiating

ad'u.

;

Wc confider him antecedently to his creation,
while he yet by in the barren womb of nothing,
and only in the number of poflibilities.
South.

ANTECESSOR, n.f [Latin.] One who
goes before, or leads another; the prin-

Dia.

cipal.

Antecha'mher. h. f [from ante, be-

In fight of their dear country ruin'd be.
Without the guilt of either rock or fea.

The text intends only the line of Seth, conduceable unto the genealogy of our Saviour, and
the antediluvian chronology. Brotuna ^ulg. Err,

Ante.mu'ndane. adj. [ante, before, and

dent.]

againft an apoplexy.

Anta'rctick. adj.

'

Let him learn the right joining of fubftantivts
with adjeftives, the noun with the verb, and the
relative with the antecedmt.
Afcbam

Good Antece'dentlv.

an apoplexy.]

deluge.
j

power of calming the ftomach ; of pre-

fubjoined ; as, the

is

the condition is contained, is called the antecedent,

Antapople'cticic. a<»y.

tion.]

3.

Woodward.

Relating to things exifting before the

man who

relative

comes hither.

a. It is alfo a

fore,

grammar,

2.

Spenfcr.
it is

deed the necefiary antecejmt, if not alfo the direft
caufe, of a finner's return to -God.
Souti>.

tilty.

and

That which goes before.

A duty of f) mighty an influence, that

cupation ; in the fecond, deceit or fub
returning to the matter at
the end of a long parenthefjs ; as. Shall
that heart (nuhich does not only feel them,
hut hath all motion of his life placed in
them), fliall that heart, I fay, &c.

During the time of the deluge, all the ftonc and
marble of t.ht antediluvian earth were totally diffolved.

A figare in rhetorick, when the fame Antece'dent. n.f. [antecedens, Lat.]

word is repeated in a different, if not
in a contrary fignification ; as, /« tby
youth learn fame craft, that in eld age thou

Exifting before the deluge.

Antecedent

No one is fo hardy as to fay, God is in his
debt; that he owed hini a nobler being: for exiftence muft be arietejent /j merit.
CMtr,

;

back.]
I .

tion preceding the exiftence of mixed bodies. Halt.

a f.n, and punii]sed it, when, without any antecedent fin of his, it was impofTible ^'^t him not to fall,

AUTJNACLASIS,
ailxii*x>xi(Tii,

becaufe there is ncceflariiy a pre-cxiftence of the
fimple bodies, and an antrcedence of their conftitu-

ufcd, I think, only with regard to
time; precedent, with regard both to
time and place.
To aflcrt, that God looked upon Adam*s fall as

Anta'lcick. adj. [from a.Ti,againft, and
QtKy^, pain.]
anodyne.

Our joys below it can improve,

And anitdate the blifs above.
Pope,
Antedilu'vi AN. adj. [from ante, before, and dilu-vium, a deluge.]

is

and

a»TJ

Collier,

To take fomething before the proper
time.

Antece'dent. adj. \_antecedens , Lat.]

Artushnit.

and makes himfelf contemporary with the

ages paft.
z.

It is impoHiblc that mixed bodies can be eternal,

To coDtend againll another.

a,yiit\?^ai.\

Dcnne»

By reading, a man does, as it were, antedate his
life,

cedence.

cle which counteradls Tome other.
A relaxation of a mufcle muft produce a fpafm
in its antagmipy becaufe the cfjuilibrium is de-

7o Anta'gonize. f. n. [irom

We are not juft thofe perfons, whjcli we were ?

Antece'dence. a. f. [from antecede.]
The aft or ftate of going before ; pre-

1.

"i

Or fay, that now

It fecms confonant to reafon, that the fabrick of
the world did not long aniecede its motion. Hale.

In anatomy, the antagoniji is that mul-

"

To-morrow, when thou leav'ft, what wilt diou fay
Wilt thou then antedate fome new-made vow,

To ANTECE'DE. •v. ». [from ante, before, and cedo, to go.]
To precede ;
to go before.

five feet j

3.

Now thou haft lov'd me one whole day,

[from ante

h. f.

A walking before.
Dia.

who are under

ours is to be compofed of fuch as are
above fix. Thefe we took upon as the two extrenoes
tad arttagonijti of the fpeciesj confidering all thefe
as neuters, who fill up the middle fpace. Addifin.

A

former ad.

2. Contrary.
fliort

do,

A'nteact. n.f. [irom. ante ZX16. ail. 1

appear, till the prejudice both oi \\\i antagoniJluriA
adherents be foftened and fubdued.
Addij<,n.

Tile

-v. a. [from ante, and
datum, Lat.]
I. To date earlier than the real time, fo
as to confer a fiftitious antiquity.

into another apartment.

Wljat was fet before him,

To heave, pull, draw, and break, he £lill perform'd,

To A'ntedate.

a chamber leading

flood ; antechamber,

nefts.

opponent.

ANT

ANT

ANT

fore, and chamber; it is generally writ-

ten,

improperly, antichamber.']

The

chamber that leads to the chief apartment.
The emprefs has the anl'ubamieri paft.
And this way moves with a diforder'd hafte. Dryd.
His anikhanher, and room of audience, arc little f:)uare

chnml>erE wainfcolcd.

Addi/m.

our appetites, it might be reafonablc, by frequent
antcpafts, to excite our guft for that profufe perpetual meal.
Deiay of Piety,

A'n tepenult.b./ [antepenultima, Lat.

The laft fyllable but two, as the fyllable
te in antepenult :

a term of grammar.

Antepile'ptick.
X«i]/i;.]

adj.

[a.Ti

and

is-i-

A medicine againft convulfions.

That bezoar is antidotal, lapis judaicus diuretical, iorsX atilefileftical, we will

not deny.
lironuns Vulgar Errcurs.

To A'nteponb. "v. a. [antepono, Lat.]
To fet one thing before another ; to prefer one thing to another.

Dia,

ANTECU'RSOR. n.f [Latin.] One who Antepredi'cament. n.f. [anteprediearuns before.

Dia.

mentum, Lat.]

Something to be known
in

ANT

ANT

ANT

in the ftudj' of logick, previoufly to the
doftrinc ol- the predicament.
Anterio'rity. n. /. [ from anter'tour ]
Priority j the ilate of being before, either
in time or fuuation.

Amthropophaci'njan. n.f. A ludi-

2. To take up before the time at which any

Ante'riour. adj. [antericr, Lat.]

Go-

ing before, either with regard to time or
place.
If thAt b» the anteriuir or upper part wherein the
fenle> are pUccd, and that the po.1etiouran<l Iswer

jurt, which is opfofite thereuntn, there is no inle-

riour or former part in this animal ; for the fenfes

being placed at both extremes, n-.akc both ends an-

Urcwn's Vuh Err,
Pillars of large

Urkiur, M'hi^h is impoflible.

ANTES, n.f. [Latin.]

dimenfions that fupport the front of a
building.

Antesto^'m ACH. ».y." [fromfl«/f, before,
and Jlomach.']
A cavity which leads
into the llomach.
In birds there is no maftication or comminution
of the meat in the mouth ; but it is immediately
fwallowcd into a- kind of anitfionuKh, wiiich 1 have
obferved in pifcivonms birds.
Ray.
Anthelmi'nthick. a^J. [airi, againft,

and

i;\finSo4,

a

worm.]

That

whicii

kills worms.
/littbrlm'MhUs, or contrary to worms, are things

which are known by experience to kill tliem,
oils, or honey taken upon an empty ftomach.

as

^rbuthmt.

crous word, formed by Shakcffeare from
anthropophagi, for the fake of a formida-

be written anthymn.l A holy fong ; a
fong performed as part of divine fervice.
Go4 Mofes firft.then David did infpire,

To compofe antbeitti for his heavenly quire.

Denb.
There is no pallion that is not finely exprcfled in
thofe parts of the infpired writings, which are proper for divine fongs and ar.th^ms.

yUd'itcn.

AnTHO'lOCY.S./ [a»9oAoyia,froma*S(j;,
1.

2.

a flower, and hi-^, to gather.]
A colleflion of flowers.

A colleftion of devotions in the Greek
church.

3.

:

Anthropo'phaoy.

n. f.

[ai9j»>?ro?,

man. and ^ayw, to eat.]

a

A'nthony's fire. n.f. Akindoferyfipilas.

ANTHRAX, n. f. [a>&ja|, a burning
coal.] A fcab or blotch that
made by
i<i

a corrofive humour, which burns the
Ikin, and occafions fliarp pricking pains ;
a carbuncle.
^ir.cy,

Anthroho'logv. n.f. [from asSfwirot,
man, and y^iytc, to difcourfe.j The doctrine of anatomy ; the dodlrine of the
form and ftruilure .of the body of man.

of eating human flelh, or man-eating.
tjp->n flinder foundations was mifed the ar.'bro/•^^iagy of Diomcdeshis horfes. Bntan'sVulg. Er.

of the nature of m.an.
-^ M T H Y p no't I en. adj. ffrom' a»T( .againft,
and tins, llecp.] That which has the
power of preventing fleep ; that which

believes a

human

form in the Deity.
Chriftians as well as Turks have had whnlo fefts

contending that the Deity was corporeal and <}i human fliape; though few profcfs themfelves antbrofix-.orfitiiisyytt we may find manyaraohgll the ig-

norant of that opinion.

Lsckt.

Anthropo'pathy.w./ [a>SfU5rii;,man,
.

and iraS-o!, paflion.] The fenflbility of
man; the paffions of man.

ANTHROPO'PHAGI. n. /.

//

has no

[a>Sfwffo;, man, and Ipayu, to
Man-eaters; cannibals; thofe
that live upon human flelh.
The cannibals that each other eat,
The aiubropopkagi, and men whofe heads
Do grow beneath their ihouldcrs. Sbahffi. OtiiUo.

fingular.
eat.]

Bream's Vulg. Err,

Why fiiouid we
jittfkipate our forrows :

'tis

like thofe

That die for fear of death.
Dentam.
4. To prevent any thing by crowding in
before it ; to preclude.
Time, thru amkipal'J) my dread exploits :

The flighty purp.ofe never is o'ertook,

efficacious againft a lethargy.

is

To foretafte, or take an impreffion of
fomething, which is not yet, as if it
really was.
The life of the dofperate equals the anxiety of
death, who but aft the life of the damned, and atitkifatc the defolations of he!!.

Anthropo'sophy. n.f. [a.S{i.7ro;, man,
and cotpM, wifdom.-] The knowledge

Unlcfs the deed ^o with it.

Anthypochon DRl'ACK./r(jJ?.[frOm a.rt\,

I

againli. and i7rop(;6»J^;a:'o,-.] Good againft

Sbakeff.-arr.

am tar from pretending to inflru£t the profcf-

fion, or arlkifarhg their diteAioni to.fucli as are
under their government.
ylrbuiln'jt.

hvpochondriack maladies.

AK'JHYPO'PHORA. n. f [i,9i.«-i^oea.] Anticipa'tion. n.f. [(rom anticipate.']

A

figure in rhetorick, which fignifics a
contrary ill:tion, or inference, and is
when an objeftion is refuted or difproved
by the oppofition of a contrary fentence.
Smith's Rhetorick

An T H y s

e'r I c K adj. [from a >t.', againft,
Good againft hyftericks.

The aft of taking up fomething before

I .

its

[ajTi.]

A particle much ufed in

compoikion with words derived from the
Greek, and fignifies contrary to ; as, an
timonarchicdl, oppofite to monarchy.
Antia'cid. adj. [from ajTi, and aaV/tt.t,
four.]
Contrary to fournefs
alkalis.

days too late, by reafon of the aforefaid auiuifaiim,
and our ncgleS of it.
HMcr.
It is not enough to he mlferable when the time

comes, unlefs we make ourfelvCsfo befiirehand, and
by anikipathn.
L'EJIrange.
'

2.

Eol-etafte.
If we really live und^r the hope of future happi-

we (hall tartc it: by vay of untkipaikmai
forethought; an image of it will meet our minds
nefs,

often, and ftay there, as all pleafing expeftations'
do.
Attrrhun.

Opinion implanted before the reafons
of that opinion can be known.
The c.-ift and weft, the north and louth, have the

3.

;

Oils arc aniiaciiis, fo far as tliey blunt acrimony
but as tjiey are hard of digeftion, they produce acri-

mony of another fort.

fame antk'ipautir. concerning one fuprerae difpofer
of things.
Siillmgjlect.
What nation is there, that, without any teaching, have not a kind ofantkipaikttf or preconceived
notion of a Deity ?
Drrbam.

jirhuthtini,

Antichache'ctick.

[from icvrl,
againft, and >;avj|K, a bad habit.]
Tilings adapted to the cure of a bad
adj.

A'ntick. adj. [probably from antiquus,

conftitution.

ruptly \yritren for

ancient, as
old.]

antechamber ; whicli

appear

Sbairffaire's Romto cud Juliet,

Of all our antki fights, and pageantry.
Which Englifh idiots run in crowds to fee. Dryd*
The prize was to be conferred upon thj whifticr,
that could go through h^s tunc without laughing,
though provoked by the omkk pcftures of a merry

Oppofition or contrariety to

chriftianity.
Have we not feen many, whofe opi.-itons have
fafteiicJ upon on': a;iot!icr the branJ of ar.ticbrijliamfm ?
V/ary of PUty.

Andrew, who was to play tricks.

A'ntick. n.f.

Contrariety to chriftianity.

to take firft polTeflion.

Cod liath taken care to anthipatc and prevent
every mm, to draw him early intphis church ; tc
give piety the prepofTeflion, »ai fo'to engage him

Hemmend.

If our Aponie had maintained fuch an aiilkifat'irg principle engravL'n upon our fouls isefore ail
excicife of reaf<n ; whatdid he talkof fecking the
L>rJ, ftei.ig that the krigwledge of him was innate
Benllef.

jldd'^on,

•

That rounds the mortal temples of a king.
Keeps death his court ; and there the amkh (its,

time.] Deviation from the right
order or account of time,

Xf'^>o;,

ro ANTl'CIPATE. 1;. a. [anticifo, Lat.]
I. I'otake fomething fooner than another,
fo as to prevent him that comes after;

'>

He that plavjS anticks ; he that ufps odd
gefticulation ; a buffoon.
Within the hollow crown,

1.

Anti'chronism. n.f [cifr;, againft, and

,inJ perpetual ?

out of ufc

ridiculoufly wild ; buitoon

What! dares the (lave

Antichri'stianism. n.f. [from anti-

in holinef'.

things
;

Come hither cover'd with an entkkfarc.
And fleer and fcorn at our fuleinnity ?

&xi^ ^ir'ia.tui.'] Oppofite to chrirtianity.
Thatdefpifed, abjeft, oiiprelfed fort of men, the
minifters, whom the wcrld would make antkhriftiat:, and fo deprive th.m of heaven.
Smi'b,

chrifiian.'\

Odd

in gefticulation.

fee.

Antjchri'stian .«<^'.[from ajri .againft,

chrijlian.'\

time.

The golden number gives the new moon four

.

and Js-i^ixof.]

AnTHROPOMo'rPHITE. n.f. \_ai^^ul;t- Antichristi a'n iTY. n.f. [iromantiOne who

3.

The quality

Anticha'mber. n.f. This word is cor-

A colleftion of poems.

/<o^^o{.]

I find \ have ati.'icipated already, and taken up
from Coccacc, before 1 come to him ; but I am of
tlie temper of kings, who are for prefcnt money,
no matter how they pay it.
Drydcn.

ble found.
Go, knock, and call ; he'll fpeaklikean cnibnftfha^'imM unto thif knock, I fay.
Shaktff.

A'nthem. «. y". [Si3i,//.Mf, a hymn fung ANTI.
in alternate parts, and fliould therefore

thing might be regularly had.

Scjiiing his rtate.

Sbakefpcare.

If you (liou'.d italic he grows impatient.-^
Fear not, my lord, we cm contain ourfelvcs.

Were he the veriett iintick in the world.
Odd appearance.

2.

Sbakik.

A work of rich entail, and curious moid.
Woven with unikks, and wild imagery.

Fdiij

For e'en at firft reflcflion (he cfpies

^

Such toys, fuch antkks, and fuch vanities.
As (he retires and (brinks for (hame and fear. Davtet.

To A'ntick.

11.

a.

[from cntick.]

To

make antick.
Mine own tongue
Splits what it fpcaks j the wild difguifc hath almoin
Aiitickt \xi aW.

til'akijpcere,

A'nticklt.

ANT

ANT

ANT
In an
antick manner ; with odd poftures ; wild
gefticulations, or fanciful appearance.

Antimona'rchicalness. fi. /. [from
antimonarchical.'\ The quality of being

Scrambling, out-tacing, fafliion-inongring boys,
That lye, and cog, and flout, deprave, and (lander.
Go artickly, and Jhew an outward hideoufncl's,
And (peak, of half a dozen dangerous words.

Antimo'nial. adj.
Made of antimony

A'ntickly, Wo". [from a/!tu-i.1

an enemy to regal power.
[from antimony.'^
having the quali;
ties of antimony ;
relating to anti-

Their force to wine through ages (hould impart.
This di(?ipation, this profuie cxpence.
Nor (brinks tiieir fue, nor waltes their ftores im-

by the Greeks called

ancients,

referred to Bafil Valentine, a Ger-

is

man monk who, as the tradition relates,
;

fioned by a fanguine and bilious humour, and appearing in a horfe's brea(l, oppo(ite to his heart.
Ar. aniiar may kill a horfe, unlcfs it be brought

having thrown fome of it to the hogs,
obfervcd th.it, after it had purged them
heartily, they immediately fattened
and therefore he imagined his fellow
monks would be the better for a like
dofe.
The experiment, however, fucceeded fo ill, that they all died of it ;
and the medicine was thenceforward

to a fuppuratlon by good remedies.

called antimoinc, antimonk.'\

tlie blood, produces

the a(thma, as ajiikon-

vulfi've medicines.

Ficyer.

jfNTICOR.^./.

[from am, againft, and

cor, the heart.]
Apretiirnaturai (welling of a round fig\ire, occa-

Fjrrier's DISI.

AN'rico'uRTiER. n.f. [fromivTi, againft,

Arjtirmmy is a mineral fubdance, of a metalline
nature, having all the feerai.ig characters of a real

and courtier. One that oppofes the court.
Anti'dotal. a^'. [hom antidote.'] That
'\

which has the quality of an antidote, or
the power of counterafting poifon.

metal, except malleability j and may be called a
femimetal, being a folTile glebe of fome undetermined metal, combined with a fulphurous and ilony
fubitancc.
Mines of all metais afford it; that in

That bezoar is ar.tit^Mai, we (hall not deny. Brtnvr.

gold mines

It has alfo its

own

Animals that can innoxioufly digeft thefc poifons, become aii:UAal to the poifon digertfd.

mines in Hungary, Germany, and Fiance.

Its

n. /.

is full of little (hining veins or threads,
needles; brittle as glafs.
Sometimes Veins
of a rtd or golden colour are intermixed^ which
is called maU antimony \ that without them being
dcnominatjdyoBa/u/rTnmwjr... Jt fufes in the lire,

[arriJol©-, aniidotus,

and diirotves more
cilily in water.
It deflr>^ys aod difiipates all metals fufed with i(, Except gold j and is therefore

,

A medicine given to expel the mifcbiefs of ano-j
S^u'wcy*

Trud oot the phyfician,

i

His afitiduet are poifon, and he Da)!

Brvwttl Vulgar F.rrturi.
Piif^n will work a^ainf^ the ftars : beware;
For ev'ry meal an amidott prepare.
Vrrttenjuv^

Antid ysente'rick. adj.

[from «>Ti,
againft, and dyfenteria, a bloody flux.]
Good againft the bloody flux.
Anti Ft^BRii-E. adj. [from a»T>, againft,

Good againft fevers.

Aniiftbrilc medicines clieck the ebuiiition. TioyEr,

[from

a.n\,

againft, and logarithm.'^

Medicines good againft'difeales of the reins and kidneys.
A'ntinomy. n.f. {from a.i~\ and re,(i'-!.]
A contradidlion between two laws, or
t«'o Articles of the fame law.
rip^iTiito;.]

|

Aiitmr^mhs are almufl unavoidable in fuch val

or fccant; or the difference of that !oga.

riety of cpinions and anfv.ers.

Cicttiiers,

AnTi'logy. n.f. [ijTiXcyi*.] A contradidion between any words and parages
Difl.
in an atithor.
Anti'loc^uist. «./. [from a»Ti, againft,
and loquor, to fpeak.] A contradiftor.

Dia.
[from «»tI,

tiy.]

to all

'

venomous creatures.

IJoivJ^ Vtcal T'.rtji.

Antipathe'tic Ai.TiESS. n.f. [frr)vn.antipcuhclical.\
The quality or ftatc of

government by
Againft government

having a

natural

contrariety

any

to

DHL

thing.

ANITPATHY. n.f. [from u,i\, againft,

ranged over their hc.ui ;, he concluded, that an j'lI'lmnarcbkal iiicrM-j coaid never choofe fuch a
.

Having a natural contrariety to

any thing.
Tl^ (bU is fat and luxurious, and atttipathttUal

f/.ova^;^!*,

mid'Jlc of the cr .wd, and moft of the kings

flace. ,

..

When truth, or virtue, an affront endures,
Th' aflVont is mine, my friend, and Ihould be

h^dijin.

and croSoc, feeling ;
I.

Formerly ivith ; but improperly.
Tangible bodies have an antipathy *ivitb air 5
and any liquid body, that is more denfe, they will
draw, condenfi, and, in eftedl, incorporate. Bacon*

ANTIPERI'STASIS. n.f [from uniir^^irac^K, formed of un)

to

ftiun it involuntarily

diflikc,

it is

and Trs^ira^fi, to

ftand round.] The oppofition of a contrary quality, by which the quality it

oppofes becomes heightened or intended ; or the aflion by which a body,
attacked by another, coUeCls itfe^Jf, and
becomes ftronger by fuch oppoiltion ;
or an intention of the aftivity of one
quality caufed by the oppofition of ano-

Thus quicklime is fet on fire by

ther.

the afpufion of cold water ; fo water be-

comes warmer in winter than in fummer and thunder and lightning are ex;

cited in the middle region of the air,
which is continually cold, and ail by
antiperiflafo. This is an exploded principle in the Peripatetick philofophy.
.

Tii^ aniipcrijiafts uf age

CmvLj.

More InflaifiM his nm'rout rage.
•The riotous prodigal

dctells covetoufnels ; yet

lot Uim find the fprings grow dry which feed hia.
luxury, covetoufnefs iTiail be called in : and fo,.
by a Stinge aniiptrijlajii, prodigality (hall beget ra-

pine.

'

Decay 0/ Piety.

'

Antjpestile'nti AL. adj. [from ivr],.
againft,

and ^i?/?/7t«//a/.] Efficacious a-

gainft the infeftion of the plague.
Perfumes corredl the air before it is attracted by
the lungs ; or, rather, ar.tipeJIiltRtial ung'u-nfs, to
anoint the noilrils with.
Harvey on the Blague.

ANTTPHRASIS. n.f [from iv-rJ, againft,
and (pficri;, a form of fpecch.] The ufe
of words in a fenfe oppofite to their proper meaning.
You now find no caufe to repent, that you
never dipt your hands irf the bloody hijli courts of
judlce, fo called only by antiphra/is.
South.

As Ti' POD Ah. adj. [from antipodes.] Relating to the countries inhabited bv the
antipodes.

The Americans arc antipodal unto the Indians.
Brotvn.

JNTI'PODES. n.f.

It

has no fingtilar.

[from an), againft, and tsihi, feet.]'
Thofe people who, living on the other
fide of the globe, have their feet diredlly oppofue to ours.
\Vc (liould hold day with the anlipcda.
If you would walk in abfence of the fun.
.

•

Sbahfpen-e,

So (IVincs the fun, tho' hence remov'd, as clear
When hli beam' warm th' antipodes, as here.

antipathie, Fr.]

A natural contrariety to any thing, fo
as

FopCm-

yours.

4.

aa^ut.-jc-ii.l Efficacious againft the palfyt

Antipathe'tical. adj. [from antijiu-

When ne fpicd th-: ilatue of King Charles io
tlie

Baker.

Antiparaly'ticc. ar^'. [from «m ana

rithm from the logarithm of ninety degrees.

a fmgle perfon.]
by a Unglc perfon.

me-

Antinephri'tick. adj. [from a,Ti and

The comj^Icmcnt of the logarithm of a (ioe, tan-

and

It makes a part in bell

and renders the found more clear. It is
mingled with tin, to make it more hard, white,
and (bund; and with lead, in the cafting of printers
letters, to render llicm more fmooth and firm.
It
is a general help in the melting of metals, and
efpecialty in caftir.g of cannon-balls.
In ph.Trmatry it is n'.ed under various forms, and with various intentions, chicrly a?an cmetick,
Chamleri.

by Pierius againd the (ling of a fc^rpiin ? to fit

againft,

It is a common ingredient in

tal ;

upon an afs, with uhe's face towaids his tail.

Antimona'rch iCAL. adj.

u(eful in reiining.

them a finer poliib.

What fool would believe that aatitUti delivered

gent,

difficulty ;

fpeculums, or burning concaves; lerving to. give
$biikrfpiarti

Anti Lo'r.ARiTHM.- n.f.

though with fome

'

More ihao you rob.

Anifebris, a fever.]

reckoned belt.

texture

Lat. a thing given in oppofition to
fomething elle.]
ther, as of poifon.

is

like

B>"'ivn's k'ui^ar Erniirs.

A'nTIDOTE.

A(k you, what provocation I Tiave had ?

r£^/i«.

The reafon of its modern denomination

Good againft

Sometimes /».
The llrong antipathy of good to bad.

BUckm^c.

menfe,

Swifts

children in (lavery.

3.

-VNTIMONY. >!./. [The ftiblum of the

convulfions.
Whatfocver produces an inflammatory difpo(ition in

mortal antipathy againji (landing armies
times of peace ; becaufe I took armies to be
hired by the mader of the family, to keep his
I had a

Grnv.
Though ant'imomal cups, prcpar'd with art,

expreffes fomething lower than the firft.
A ccrta'a figure, which was unknown to the
ancients, is called by fome an anudmax,
AdSJrjn.
This dillich is frequently mentioned as an example :
Next comes I>alhouirey, the great god of war.
Lieutenant col'nel to the earl of Mar.
Anticonvu'lsive. adj. [from krii, a-

Locke.

has fometimes the particle againji
before the objeft of antipathy.
It

in

fumes.

1

and tonvulfive.'\

men.
2.

They were got out of the reach of arjimomal

A fentence in which the aft part

gainft,

of the fympathies and aniifatbia obfervable in

mony.

Stakefptare.

ANTICU'MAX. n.f. [from a.ri and x^i;ia|.]

No centraries hold more antipathy,
Shahfpean»
Thjn I and fuch a knave.
To this perhaps might be juftly attributed moil

;

averiion j

oppoled tof^mfatiy.}
^

Aw'tipope. n.f [from itrl, againft, and
pope.] He that ufurps the popedom, in>
oppoiltion to the right pope.
Tliit-

ANT

ANT

This houfe is famous in hlftory,

for \ht tt-

treat of an amijuft, who called bimlclf FcU» V.

of JuIUis Crfar; as alfo another fea', fuppofc4 tc
be a you:ig Herculca ) botlt very choice anlijues,
and let in gold.
Stoift.

JNriPTO'SIS. n.f. [i.Tis-TKins.] A figure A N T I'qu E N E 83
in

grammar, by which one

from antique. ] Tbe
quality of being antique ; an appear-

cafe is put

A'NTiquARY. n.f. [antlquaritis, Lat.]
A man ftudious of antiquity a collector

tiquer.cjt of tbe

;

and inventions, are but theadtelit^s of an intclleft defaced with fin.
mire it now, only as aniijimmt do a piece of
South*
old coin, for the Itsmp it once bore.
With marpcn'd fight pale antiquaries pore,
Pcfe.
Th' inKription valde, but the ruft adore.
The rude Latin of the monies is ftiU -very intelligible ; bad their records been delivered in the
vulgar tongue, they coqIJ not now be underdood,
unlefs by anti^ttariit,
Stvift*
All arts,

raiitit-s,

We

To put out of ufc

-v. a.
;

2..

A'NTi<iyATEDNESS. n.f. [ftOTCiantiquated.'\ The ftate of being atuiquated, worn
out of ufe, or obfolete^

ANTrQUE. aJJ. [_antique, Fr. antijuus,
Lat. It was formerly pronounced according to the Englifli analogy, with
the accent on the firft fyllabiej but now
after the French, with the accent on the
laft, at leaft in profe 4 the poets ufe it

laft

long; as it appeared in the

fuccefiian of Sabinian, who did revive the former

Bacon.

antiquities.

4.

your Voice broken ? your wind fliort ?
your chin double ? your wit fingle ? and every part
about you blafted with antiquity ? and will you yet
It not

5.

Ancient i old; not modern.
Now, good Ccfario, but that piece of fonp.
That old and antique fong we heard laft night.

Sba):<:ffeare.

Ancientnefs ; as, this ring is valuable

and a-xia.] In geography, the people
who inhabit on different lides of the
equator, who confequently at noon have
their (hadows projeiSted oppofite ways.
Thus the people of the north are Antifcii to thofe of the fouth ; the one projecting their fliadows at noon toward
the north pole, and the other toward the
lifTi

fouth pole.

Antiscorbu'tical.

adj.

Chambers.
[from an),

againfl, axtA/corbutum, the fcurvy.] Geod

againil the fcurvy.
rhe warm antifcorbuiical plants, in quantities,

Shakefpeare.
Such truth in love as th' antique world did know.

In fuch a ftyle as coOrts might boaft of now. H^aller.
3. Of genuine antiquity.
The feals which we have remaining of Julius
Czfar, which we know to be antique, have the ftar
Dryden.
.t>{ Venus over them.

My copper lamps, at any rale,
3For being true antique I bought

Yet wifdy melted down my plate,

Cn modern models to be wroughtj
And trifles J alike purfue,
prler.

Of old fashion.
Forth came that ancient lord and aged (jaeen,
Array'd in antique robes dow i to the ground,
And fad habilimentsrighl well befcen. tViry S^ecn.
Muft he no more divert the t'd.ous day ?
JJor fparkling thoughts in antique words convey ?
imiri to tbe Mivory ofyhilif:.

Arbutbnot.

againft,

adj.

and fcorbutum,

[from
the

avri,

fcurvy.]

Good againft the fcurvy.

_V6nne-

And fooner may a gulling weather-fpy.
By drawing forth hcav'n's fchemc, tell certainly
What fa/hion'd ha.s, or ruffs, or fuits, next year
Our giddy-headed antique you. h will wear. Dinne.
Anti'que. «./ [tiom onti jut, ai/J.] An
antiqaity ; a remain. of ancient times ;

an ancient rarity.
I .eav< to £dward, now carl of Oxford, my fcai

n. f.

the plural an.

in

iithc/es. \a.ir.^i~if, placing in oppofition.]

Oppofition of words or fentimeuts; conas in thcfe lines :

traft ;

Though gentle, jet not dull
Strong witliout rage; without O'crflowing, full.
Denbam.
I fee a chief, who leads my chofcn Tons,
All arm'd with points, etr.t'ulefet, and pons.

Pope.

A'nt t y TZ.n.f. [arTiVfir®-.] That which
1

refembled or Ihadowed out by the
type; that of which the type is the reptefentation.
It is a term of theology.
See Type.
is

When once upon the wing, he foars to an higher
pitch, from the type to the antitype, to the days of

the Mcfliah, die afcenfion of our Saviour, and, at
length, to his kingdom and dominion over all the
earth.
Jiurnei't Thnry,
He brought forth bread and wine, and was the
prieft of the moR high God j imitating the antitype, or the fuhftance, Chrift himfelf.
Taylor,

[fromi

adj.

a/itityfe.]

That which relates to an antitype ; that
which explains the type.

An t VE N e'r E A L adj. [from airt and -veI

.

Good againft the venereal dif-

lureal.'l

The warm atiijccrbulich, animal diet, and animal falts, are proper.

Arbutbnot.

ANTl'SPASIS. n.f, [from i.n\, againft,
and trvaij, to draw. ] The revulfion of
any humour into another part.
Antisp asmo'dick. aJj. [from in-i,
againft, and <r«-a<7ft«c, the cramp.] That
which has the power of relieving the
cramp.
Antisp a'stick. atlj. [from avr) and
inrar'xof.] Medicines which caufe a revulfion of the humours.

Antisplene'tick. adj. [from <«»t» and
Jphnetick.^ Efficacious in difeafes of Oie
fplecn.
Aniijflenetielio^m the obftruftions of the fplecn.

ANTrSTROPHE. n.f.

If the lues be joined with it, you will fcatte cure
your patient without exhibiting emtk/entrra! remedies.

Jfifeman.

A'ntler. n.f. [^andouillier, Fr.] Properly
the firft branches of a flag's horns ; but,
popularly and generally, any of hi«
branches.
Grown old, they grow lefs branched, and firft
lofe their btow antlers, or toweft furcations next to
tlie

Brown,

head.

A weIl-gro'.vn ftag, vhofe antlers rife
High o'er hie front, his beams invade the Ikies.
Dryden,
Bright Diana
Brought hunted wild goats heads, and branching
antlers

Of ftags, the fruit and honour of her toil.

Prior,

ANTO'ECl.n.f Itbasnoftngular. [Latfrom aiit, and oix/w, to inhabit.] In geography, thofe inhabitants of the earth

who live under the fame meridian, and

Pleytr.

wild ; antick.

Name not thclc living death-heads unto me;

ANTTTHESiS.

anr'iflru-

If^Jrman.

eafe.

for its antiquity.

JNTI'SCII. n.j\ It has nojingular. [from

Antiscorbu'tick.

I prefcrlbed him a diftiUeJ milk, whh
matieks, and purged him.

Aktity'pical.

Old age : a ludicrous fenfe.

will occafion ftiuking breath, and corrupt the blood.

varioufly.]

For thcfe not ancient but antique be.

Raleigk.

The works or remains of old times.

call yourfelf young ?

Milton's Paradife Loft is admirable. But cansot I admire the height of Wi invention, and the
llrcngth of his expreflidn, without defending his
ami^uaieJ words, and the perpetual harihnefs of
DryJcn.
their found ?
Almighty Latium, with her cities crown'd.
Shall like an antiquated fable found.
AdHifatt.

;

; the ancients.
That fuch pillars were railed by SeCh, all anti-

As for the ohfer\'ation of Machiavel, traducing
Gregory the Crest, that he did what in him lay
to extingiiiOi all heathen amiquitiei : I da not find

CCFnfiilcnt with the Chriftian dcflrines.

Odd

The people of old times
quity has avowed.

3.

might reafonably introduce new laws, and anfome old ones, that feemed lefs

4.

Addijtn.

quity.

[antijuo, Lat.]

Bccaufe they're old, becaufe they're n«#.

time pafl long ago.

and the moli confummate ftutefnian, of all anti-

tij-Mte or abrogate

3.

;

rteition Ariftotle, PoSbius, and Cicero, the
greateft philofopher, the moft impartial hiftcrian,

that thofe eeals

Halir^s Common Laio ttj Kngland.

Addijcn.

I

The growth of Chriftianity in this kingdom

k.

work j bet .we would fee the defign
,

Old time«

I.

Shaltcfp*

to make obfolete.

[

AnTi'ouiTy, n.f. [aittiquitas, Lat.]

Here's Ntftor,

7« A'nTIQU ATE.

»./.

enLrgL-d.

A'ntic^uaiiv. ai/j. [This word is improper.] Old ; antique.
Inftruficd by the fittiijutiry times ;
He mufl, he is, he cannot but be wife.

.

ance of antiquity.
We may difcover i'omething venerable In the an-

for another.

of ancient things.

ANT
'

[i^^r^'^tfy,,

from

«>Ti, the contrary way, and rfe?«. tXirnir>g«] ]n an ode fuppofed to be furVg in
parts, the Tecond ftanza of every three,

or fometimes every fecond ftan/.a ; fo
called becaufe the dance turns about.

Antistrum a'tick. adj. [from am, and
firuma, a fcrophulous fweiling.]
s
againft the king's evil.

Good

at the fame diftance from the equator i

and the other
Hence they have the fame-

the one toward the north,
to the fouth.

longitude, and their latitude is alfo the
fame, but of a different denomination.
They are in the fame femicircle of the
meridian, but oppofite parallels. They
have precifely the fame hours of the
day and night, but oppofite feafons
and the night of the one is always equal
to the day of the other.
Chambers.

ANTONOMASIA. n.f [from in), and
ovo/xa, a nan\s.]
A form of fpeech, in
which, for a proper name, is put the
name of fome dignity, ofiice, profeffion.
fciencc, or trade ; or whan a proper
name is put in the room of an appellaI'hus a king is 'called hit mative.
jefty ;

a

nobleman,

his lord/hip.

We

fay the philofopher inftead of Ariftotle,
and the orator for Cicero thus a man
is called by the name of his country, a
:

German, an Italian

;

and a grave

man

called a Cato, and a wife man a Solomon.
Smith's Rhttcrici.
is

A'wTRK

ANY

YcB contented yourfelf with being capable, as
much as any whofoever, of defending your country

cavern ; a cave ; a den : not in ufe.
With all my travels hifiory

Drydtn.
How fit is this retreat for uninterrupted ftudy
Any one that fees it will own, I could not have
chofen a more likely place to converfc with the
dead in.
Pope.

:

It was

my hcnt to fpeak.

Shakeffean,

r../.

z.

faw a (mith ftand wth his hammer, thus,

The whilft his iron did on his arWcool. Sbaktff.
On tlieir eternal airvih here he found
The brethren beating, and the blows go round.

Shahffearc,

It is ufed in oppofition to none.
I wound and I heal : neither is there any that
can deliver out of my hand.
Dsut.xxxn. 39.

Figuratively ; to be upon the airvil, is
to be in a ftate of formation or prepara-

A'oRisT.n./ [io'jiro;.] Indefinite; a term
in the Greek grammar.

tion.

AO'RTA.n.f. [iojlr.] The great artery

members of our houfe knowing what
»as upon the OTevil, went to the clergy, and dcfired

which rifes immediately out of the left
ventricle of the heart.
^incy.
Ap a'ce. adv. [from a and pact ; that is,
with a great pace.]
1. Quick; fpeedily
ufed of things in
motion.
Or when the flying libbard fije did chace,

3

.

Horiy and nobly.

Several

their judgment.

Sioift.

Anxi'ety. luf. [anxietas, Lat.]
I. Trouble of mind about fome

future

event ; fufpenfe with unealinefs ; perplexity ; folicitude.

To be happy, is not only to be firttd firom the

fpiccs are ufeful.

Arburbnd,

J.

the li-a overwhelm him ?

Difturbed about fome uncertain event
folicitous ; being in painful fufpenfe
;
painfoliy uncertain.
His penfive cheek upon his hand recVn'd,

And aaxioui thoughts revolving in his mind. Dryd.
With beating hearts the dire event they wait,
full of inquietude ;

If fenliblc pleafure, or real grandeur, be our
end, we /hall proceed apace to real mil'cry. l-f^atts,

or draw.]
is fiich

An rt/i«g-(!_§^/W demonftration

as does not prove the thing di-

reaiy ; but (hews the impoflibility, or
abfurdity, which arifes from denying it ;
and is alfo called reduaio ad impojfihiie,
or ad abfurdum.

Apa'rt. adv.

/ince it might be repaired again.

1.

Thou what befits the new lord mayor,
And what the Gallicic arms will do, *
Art anxkujly inquifitive to know.
Dr^den.
-A'kxiousniss. n./. [from anxious.] The

StaU^re.

YoL.L

llsine.

But aprs and monkeys are the gods within.
GrasivUie.

Admir'd fuch knowledge in a human Oiape,
.Vnd /how'd a Newton, as we fhow an ape.
2.

An imitator

;

Pope,

ufed generally in the bad

fenfe.
Julio Romano, who, had he himfclf eternity,
and could put breath into his work, would beguile
Nature of her cullom fo perfeftly he is her ape.
:

Sbakefpeare,

Curfe on the ftripling
Ambitiaufly fcntentious

!

how he apes his fire

!

!

Addifcr,

Ape'ak, or Ape'ek. a</f. [probably from
a pique.] In apofture to pierce; formed
with a point.

Since I enter into that queftion, it behoveth me

concoction.
A'PF.K. n.f. [iromape.]
tator or mimick.

my opinion, with circumfpec-

walk

and in a way apart
from the multitude.
Rakifh.
The party difcerncd, that the earl of ElYtx
would never fcrve their turn j they refolvoj to have
another army apart, that fliould be at their devo-

2.

Api"g the fneigners in every drcfs.

Which, bought at greater coft, becomes him lefs.
Dry den.

.Vpepsv. n.f. [airi'4/ia.] A lofs of natural

alide,

tion.

differently to perfons
things.
1 know you are now. Sir, a gentli:miB born
Ay, and have been fo any time chcfe four hours.

near the heart;, cemforteth the heart, and i&creafeth audacity.
It is true, that the ape a a merry
and bold bcall.
Bacon*
With glittering gold and fparkling gems ihey

Separately from the reft in place.

tion ; becaufe I

A'ny. adj. [amj, eni3. Sax.]

t

Chambers.

[apart, Fr.]

to give reafon for

quality of being anxious ; fufcepubility
of anxiety.

applied in-

tating what he fees.
I will bt: more newfangled than an ape, more
giddy in my defircs than a monkey.
Sbakefp,
Writers report, that the heart of an ape, worn

Apago'gical. adj. [from aTrayayti, com- To Ape. <v. a. [horn ape] To imitate,
pounded of avrJ, from, andaya), to bring
as an ape imitates human aflions.

of it needs not put us fo anxioujly to prevent it,

It is, in all its fenfes,

Pope,

APE. n.f. [ape, Icelandifti.]
A kind of monkey remarkable for imi1

Celeftia! Beings, when of late they faw

and at home, while we arc fpreading the honour of
our arms far and wide through foreign nations.

anxious manner ; folicitoufly ; unqoietly ; carefully ; with painful uncertainty.

be.

South.

'tis fixed as in froft,

Contraftcd all, retiring to the bread;
But ftrength of mind isexercife, not rell.

-

This fccond courfc of men.

objeft, butfomctiraes of; lefs properly.
Anxiom ',fnce,\c6, fufpefling change. CrumvUU.
A'sxiowsLY. adV. \^bom anxious .] In an

it

not conftancy, but apathy.
In \iiy apathy let Stoicks boafl:

A mortal man unfold all Nature's law,

With fome regard to what is juft and right.
Shall lead their lives, and multiply i2/><i». Mi! en.
The life and power of religion decays apace htre

No writings we need to be folicitous about the

Every; whoever he be; whatever

Milton.

To remain infenfible of fuch provocations, is

Tiltotfon.

ance.

I.

PalTion, and apathy, and glory, and Ihame.

Their virtue fix'd ;

Aritrtury.

Sculb.

;

emption from paffion ; freedom from
mental perturbation.
Of good and evil much they argued then,

other.

unquiet.

But where the lofs is temporal, every probability

A'pathy. n.f. [a, not, and TOaSo;, feeling.]
The quality of not feeling ex-

:

!

meining of, but thofe that contain truths we are
to believe, or laws we are to obey ; we may be
lefs enxious aUut the fenfe of other authors. Locke.
4. It has generally/ir or about before the

Dryd.
Inro the queen's apartment takes his way.
The mod confiderablc ruin is tiiac cti the eaftern
promontory, where are ftill fome apartments left
very higli and arched at top.
Addijor.

\

In youth alone unhappy mortals live
But, ah the mighty blifs it fugitive;
Difcolour'd lickoefs, anxioui labour come.
And age, and death's ineiorablc doom. Drydeit.
3. Careful, as of a thing of great import-

Sir y, Dtnhnm.

He pale as death, dcfpoird of his ariay,

The baron now his diamonds pours apace
Th'embroider'd king, who Ihows buthalf his face.
And his refulgent qutrer. Pope's Rafie "f the Lock.
3. Haftily ; with fpeed
fpoken of any
kind of progreffion from one ftate to an-

jSnxktts, and trembling for the birth of fate. P'j^e,

Z- Careful;

A

A private gallery 'twixt th' apa/ttiirnts led.
Not to the fie yet known.

With hafte ; applied to fame adlion.

2.

libakefp*

part of the houfe allotted 10 the ufe of
any particular perfon ; a room ; a feJ
of rooms.

Sferfer,

A'NXIOUS. adj. [anxiui, Lat.]

K .1
from die oihcr
"

retired

Apa'rtment. «.y; [aparletnent, Fr.]

Ay, quoth my uncle Glo'fter,
Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow fl/)a«.
And fince, methinks, I would not grow fo faff,
Beciufc fweet fiow'rs are flow, and weeds make
hafte.
Shakeffean.
He promis'd in his eaft a glorious race;
Now funk from his meridian, fets apace. Dryd.
Is r>ot he imprudent, who, feeing the tide
making hafte towards him apace, will fleep till

;

i.-.

So plcafc you, madam.

She could then nimbly move, and after fly »fact.

J. In the medical language, lownefs of
fpirits, with uneafinefs of the ftomach.
In aiuiUtia which attend fevers, wlicn the cold
fit is over, a warmer regimen may be allowed j and
bccaufe avxUtin often happen by fpafms from wind,

At a diftance

To put apart thele your attendants.

:

pains anj diliafcs of the body, but ftom. enx'irty
and vexation of fpirit ; not only to enjoy the plcafures of fcnfe, but peace of confcience, and tranquiUk)' of mind.
1'Uloifor:.

earth, fufir.f;

company.

Sbakcjf^are.

Any thing on which blows are laid.
Here I clip

nameth them apart,
4.

An inverted motion being begun dry where below, continues itfelf ail the whole length.
Luke.

Tile ari-v-U of my fword, and do conted
%.

Whofoever ; whatfoever ; as dillinguiihed from fome other.
What warmth is there in your affcftion towards
any of thefe princely fuitors that are already come ?

Dryden,

«.

Mofes firft nameth heaven and

waters but in the third place, as compreh'^:^'!
waters in the word earth ; but afterwr.,

!

[aenplk. Sax,]
I. The iron block on which the Tmith lays
his metal to be forged.
I

3..Diftinaiy.

with your fword.

Wherein of antra v«ft, and defarts wild,
A'jivii,.

APE

A P A

Am'trb. n.f. [antre, Fr. ««//««, Lat.] A

Clarendon.

In a ftate of diftinftion ; as, to fet apart
for any ufe.

He
fo very figurative, that he requires a grammar apart, to conftriie him.
Drycien.
The tyrant (hall demand yon facred load,
ii>

And gold and vcfick ki apart far Cod.

Ape'rient. adj.

^irncv.

A ridiculous imi-

[aperio, Lat. to open.]

That which has the quality of opening ;
chiefly ufed

of medicines gently pur-

gative.
There be bracelets fit to comfort the fpirits;
and they be of three Intentions j refrigeraju, corroborant, and aperient,
Bacfn,
Of the ftcms of plants, fome contain a fine aptrient fait, and are diurccick and faponaceous.

Prior.

Ari'urhiht,

N

ApE'iin'ivg.

A P H

A P O

A P I

^i>.a»9{»iTii», love of mankind.]
Want
of love to mankind.
opening the excreiuentitious pafiagea oi A'pHOKY. n.f. [«, without, and ^^tr„
fpeech.]
the body.
A lofs of fpeech.
^incy,
Thry nuy make broth, with the addition of A'PHORISM. n.f. [if ojKTftof.] A maxim
tpirlihi hcrbt.
Harvey.
a precept contracted in a (hort fentence ;
Ape'rt. adj. [opertus, Lat.] Open.
an unconnefled pofition;
Ape'rtion, n.f. [from apcrius, Lat.]
He will cifily difcern how little of truth there
is
in th; multitude; and, though fomctimei
1. -An opening; a paflage through any
they are flattcr.-d with that aphorij'm, will hardly
thing; a gap.
believe the voice of the pcop.e to be the voice of
Tlic next now in order are the apirtiirt ; under
God.
Bnwn^s l^tilgar Krroun,
which term

Ape'»itive. adj. [from aferie, Lat, to
open.] That which has the quality of

I

do comprehend doors, windows,

ftjirtales, chimneys, or other cuiiduin :
all nlcts

or uuilett.

I

in (hort,

fftii^n.

munity.

1 he plenitude of vefTels, otherwife called the
^ethora, when it happens, caufeth an extrav-ifatjon of blood, either by ruption or afirrkn of them.

In tlie form of an apborifm ; in fcparate
and unconneiled fentences.
Aphor j'sTicALLY. ad-v. [from aphoriflica/.]
In the form of an aphorifm.

ApE'RTtv. aJ-v. [afer/i, Lat.] Openly ;
Open-

[i'rota aptrt,']

HMcr.

[from

compare the throne of the Son of God, as feen in
the apKalypje.
Burmt'i Theory
the Eartb.

aphori/hi.'\

f

Apoc a l y'pti c a I., adj. [from apocafyp/e.l
Concerning revelation; containing revelation.
If we could underftand that fcene, at the opening ct this apccalypiical theatre, we Aijuld find ic
a reprefentation of the majefty of our Saviour.

Har'vey.

Aphrooisi'acai...7 a^'. [from 'AcpfMv,
Aph rodisi'ack. 3 Venus.] Relating to

A'piARY.

n.f.

[t'roin apis,

Lat. a bee.]

The place where bees are kept.
'I'hofe

is calier than from one appulfe to another.

apiary, there to make what bavock they pleafe.

HtUtr.

An open place.

fpirits through the opened pafl'ages, images, without doubc, paf» through tiic fame aptrturti,

Gixtfu'tlU.

The hole next the objeft glafs of a telefcope or microfcope.

The concave metal bore an aptrture of an inch

;

but the aperture was limited by an opaque circle,
perforated in the middle.
Ntiiitm'i Opticit.

Enlargement ; explanation

:

a fenie fel-

dom found.
U too much untwiftcd by the doftors, and,

made intricate by explications,
and difficult by the aperture and diflblution of dif-

like philofophy,

A figure in

grammar, when the lift letter or lyllable
of a word is taken away ; as, ingeni, for
ingenii ; apoplex, for apoplexy.

ApocRu'stICK.

tin£lions.

Taylor.

of the flamina, in the middle of a flower.
They arc commonly of a dark purpliih
colour.
By the microfcope they have
been difcovered to be a fort of capfulee
feminaLs, of feed veflels, containing in
them fmall globular, and often oval particles, of various colours, and exquifitely formed.
^lincy.
A P i'e c E adv. [from a for each, and piece,
or fhare.] To the part or ftiare of each.
Men, in whofc mouths at firft fcundcd nothing

adj.

but mortification, were come to think that they
might lawfully have fix or feven wives apiece.
H»ier.
I have to-night difp,itched fixtecn bufineflcs, a
month's length aficee, by an abftraiSt of tuccels.

[frotnapetalous.]

Being without leaves.

[airoxpaj-ixa,

frOIR.

which will be Itfs than a farthing apien.
IVocditjnrJ.

jiPHj^RESIS. n.f. [a^ai'fjiri{.]

A'pisH.
1.

Report of falhions in proud Italy,
Whfife manners ftill our turiyafj/j narion

Limps after, in bafe aukward imitation. Shatefp.

Ckeyne.

JPHETjI. n.f [with aftrologcrs.]

The
name of the planet, which is imagined
to be the giver or difpofer of life in a
Diil.

Aphe'tical. ajj. [(lom apheta.'] Relating to the apheta.

,A»hila'nthropy.»./ [u, without, and

We

hold not K.Y\e apocrypha for facred, as we do
the holy fcripture, but for human compofitions.

Hnicr,

Aro'cKYPH At. adj. [from apocrypha.]
1.

Becaiile I cannot flatter, ard look fair.

Duck with French nodb, and afijh courtcfy,
muft be held a rancorous eni-'iny.
Shatefpeare.
3. Silly; trifling; infignificant.
I

All this is but iipijh fophiftry ; and, to give it a

name divine and excellent, is abulivc and unjult.
Olanvilie..

4.

Not canonical

of uncertain authority-.

;

Jeroni, who faith that all writings not canonical ate apxryphal, ufcs not the title epn.ryfkai aa
the reft ot the fathers ordinarily have done, whole
cuftom is fo to name, for t„? moft part, only fuch
as might not publickly be r'ad or divulged. H'.eier,
2.

Contained in the apocrypha.

To fpeak of her in the words of the apocrypiai
wifdom

is

glorious,

and never

away_.

3. It is

ladccii

Aidijin.

fometimes ufed for an account of

uncertain credit.

Apo'cryph ally.

Foppifh ; afFefted.

2.

«odiack is, that, in ihcW ajhelia, they m.iy be at
the greatell diftances from one anotlier ( and confe^ueotly difturb one another'* motions the lead
that may be.

being of doubtful authors, arc lefs regarded.

writers,

tive.

in grammar, that takes away a lecter or
fyllable from the beginning of a word.

awo, and ii>,i®., the fun.]
That part of
the orbit of a planet, in which it is at
the point remoteft from the fun.
The reafon why the comets move not in the

adj.

Books not publickly

;

Sivifi.

[from <i/t-.]
H.iving the qualities of an ape; imita-

A figure

JPHE'LION. n. f apbelia, plur. [from

put out of fight.]

communicated books whofe authors are
not known. It is ufed for the books
appended to the facred writings, which,

One copy of this p.ipcr mayferveadczenof you,

or point of any thing.

Remedies endued

APO'CRYPHA. n.f [from i:ro^5,;A., to

SfakeJ'feare.

APEX. n.f. apices, plur. [Lat.] The tip

to drive.]

with a repelling and aftringent power,
by which they prevent the too great
afflux of humours.
Chambers,

.

a leaf.] Without petala or flower leaves.

The apex, or lefTcr end of it, is broken ofT.

arrcy.^sa,

jiPI'CES of afl(nx;er. [Lat. from apex, the
top.] Little knobs that grow on the tops

Are'r ALOVS. adj. [ofafriv. andw-tTaAsr,

nativity.

veal fomething fecret.

JPO'COPE. n.f. [ijrox3»J;.]

Siulft.

made by the eafy motion of the

Ape'talousnses. »./.

[from apoIn fijch a manner as to re-

calyptical.]

who a!C ikilled in bees, whfn they fee a

foreign fvvarm approaching to plunder their hives,
have a trick to divert tliem into fome neighbour.
ng

If memory be

Burnetts Tkeiry cf the Earth.

Apocaly'ptically. adv.

the venereal diieaif.

Hence arifcth die facility of joining a confonant
to avowd, becaufe from an appulfc to inafennri

It

Revelation ; difcovery : a word ufed only
of the facred writings.
O for that warning vOi^e, which he who favir
Th' afocalyfje heard cry in heav'n aloud. Milten,
With this throne, of the glory of the Father,

as Hippocrates doth Uktwayiaphcnjlica/ly tell us.

A'perture. n./. [from afertut, open.}
1. The ail of opening.

4.

aJj.

*

nouncing, and the cloi'encfs of muffiiug, and laainefs of fpealcing, render the found ditr'erent.

3.

APO'C ALYPSE. ».'/[from iir<rxa?.i'^«.]

'

The freedom,' or afitrtiitfs and vigour of pro-

2.

The one holds a fword in herb<ind, to reprcfent
the Iliad ; iS the other has an apluftre, to reprelent the OdylTcy, or vovate of Ulyllcs.
Mthj-.K,

Thefc being, cariicd down, feldom mifs a cure,

without covert.
11./.

enfign carried in fea vefleh.

Rogen.

Aphori'stical.

nefs.

APLU'STRE. n.f [Latin.] The ancient

at prefent confiJer the apborijm, that i

opened.

Ape'rtness.

back : agad, my heart has gone af'trfat tor yuu.

man of religion and virtue is a m >re ulcful, and
confequently a mote valuable, member of a com-

The acl of opening ; or ftate of being

2.

ihall

Api'tpat. ad'V, [a word formed from the
motion.] With quick palpitation.
O there he comes—VVciComc my bully, my

Wanton ; playful.
Gloomy lits the queen.
Till Jiappy chance reverts the crutl fcene

And :ipijh folly, with her wild refort
Of wit .md jefr, difturbs the folcmn court. Pr:'.r.
A'l'jSHLY. adv. [i\omap!/h.'\ In an apifli

manner ; foppilhly ; conceitedly.
A'piSHNESs. »./. [itomapip."] Mimickry
foppery ; infignificance ; playfulnefs.

ad-v.
[from apocry~
phal.] Uncertainly ; not indifputably.

Apo'cryph aln ESS.

n.f. [from apocryphal.] Uncertainty; doubtfulnefs of credit.

.Apodi'ctical. adj. [fromairoJiilKi evident truth ; demonftration.]
Demonftrative ; evident beyond contradiftion.
Holding an <i/'5i/i(^/;rfl/ knowledge, and an alfuted
knowledge'of it ; verily, to perfuade their apprehenlions otherwife, were to make an Euclid believe, that there were more than one centre in a
Brczvri'i Vulgar Errcuri.

circle.

We can fay all at the number three
the world

is

foll.iwed him ;

pcrfeft.

therefore

;

Tobit went, and

therefore there

is

his

dog

a world in the

moon, were <ut argument as aptijiilical.

Glamil/e.

APOM'XIS.

A P O

A P O

When a eyft rifes near the orifice of the artery,

A'popLEXED. oi^r. [from «/5//^.v.] Seized

A P O
JPODI'XIS. n.f. [a3-J/;|.(.] Demonftra-O"*-

tion.

formed by the afoneurcfu that runs over the
ven"e!, which becomes eiceflivcly expanded.
it

is

with an apoplexy.

•'

Senfe, fure, you have,

Sbjifi Surgery.
APOGuEON. 1 n.f. [from a.Ttl, from, and
Elfe cculd you not have motion but fure that ffnfe
!ihjleJf.eM-c.
Is apoflcx'd.
A'poGEE.
>y\> the earth.] A point JPO'PHJSIS. n.f. [Lat. iw^JiacrK, a denying.] A figure in rhetorick, by which ATOPLEXY. n.f. [i7ro'7r^»|K.] A fudJPOGE'UM. 3 in the heavens, in which
:

the fun, or a planet, is at the grcateft
diftance poffible f»mn the earth in its
The ancient aftrowhole revolution.
noniers regarding the earth as the centre
of the fyftem, chiefly regarded the apo-

the orator, fpeaking ironically, ieems to
wave what he would plainly infinuate ;
as. Neither ivill I mention thofe things,
rwhich if I Jhould, you notwithfiavding
could neither confute or peak agaiitji them.

gxon and perigaeon, wliich the moderns,
making the fun the centre, change for

Smith's Rhetorick.

the aphelion and perihelion.

Chambers.

Tliy lin is in his ufogaofi placed,
Ar.J when it movetli next, muft needs defcend.
Fairfjx,
It is yet not agreed in what lime, precifely,
the ajxgimm abfolveth ore degree.

Brmvni Vulgar Ernurs.

J

Apophle'gmatick. n.f. [aTro and fTUy
That which has the quality of
drawing away phlegm.
Apophle'gm atism. n.f. [aws and (pxiyA medicine of which the intenfta.]
tion is to draw phlegm from the blood.
And fo it is in afrjphlcgmunjnn and ij-irgarilms,
fio..']

den deprivation of all internal and external fenfation, and of all motion, nn.
The caufe
lefs of the heart and thorax.
is generally a repletion, and indicates
evacuation, joined with ftimuli. ^iucy.
Apiplexy is a fudden abolition of all the Senfcs,

external snd internal, and of all voluntary motion,
by the ftoppa^c of the flux and lelinx of tiie animal
fpitits
tijjns.

thiough the nerves dertined for tholb moArhuthnot on Divt*

I'cace -3 a very a^5f/w_y, lethargy, mulled, deaf,
!ihakcjpc.ire't Ccriolanus.

fleepy, inlcniible.

A fever may take away my reafon, or memory,
and an apoplexy leave neither fenfe nor underftandLockem

ing.

Bjciit.
that draw the rheum d.nvn by the palate.
Apologe'tical. adj. [fromir^Xoyi'iu, to
APO'RIA. n.f. [iiropia.] Is a figure in
Apoloce'tick. J defend.] That which Apophlegma'tizant. n.f. [xvl and
rhetorick, by which the fpeaker fhews,
")

is faid in

defence of any thing or perfon.

drfign -.0 publilh an eflay, the greater part of
which is<i^/tj«;c<i/,toronel:)rtot'chymifts. Boylt.
1

Apoloce'tically. ad'v. [homafclogeIn the way of defence or exxul'e.
tical.]
Apo'logist. n. /. [fiom To apologize.]
He that makes an apology ; a pleader
in favour of another.

To Apo'logize. v. n. [from apology.^

To plead in favour of any perlon or thing.

1 .

leiorm than
Mohgixe or rhetoricate; and therefore it imports
thofe, who dwell fecure, to look about them.
Decay i,f Fitly.
It will be much more feafinabie to

2. It has the particle /ar before the fubjeft

of apology.
ou^ht zo ap'Jogixt fir my indifcretion in the
Watt'tPreparal'r.nfcr Death.
The trandator nieds not it^hgiz.1 for ni« choice
I

wh')Ie undertaking.

of this piece, which was made in his childhood.
P'.pe't Preface to Statim.

A'POLOGUE, n.f. [«7^«^67®-.] Fable

;

ftory

contrived to te.ich fome moral truth.

An •ifohgue of /Silup is beyond a fyllnglim, and
proverbs more powerful than dem'inftrjiion.
Brenvrt^i fnlga^- Erraurt.
Some men are remailceJ for pleal'antnels in raillery j

others for afo.'cguei and appofite diverting

Loeti

ftorie^.

APCLOGV. tt.f.

[apologia, Lat.

iiro-

Defence; excufe.

Jpology generally
than vindication,
and tends rather to extenuate the fault,
than prove innocence. This is, however, fomctimes unregarded by writers.
figniiies rather excufe

In Iier face excufe

Came prologue, and apology too prompt
Which with bland words at will flie thus addrefs'd.
MUun.
2. It hasyir before the objeft of excuie.
It is nit my intention to make an apcbgy fcr my
fK/cm : fume will think it needs no excufe, anit
Dryden.
others will rectivc none.
I ftiill neither trouble the reader, nor mylclf,
with any ap'Aogj for publifhing of thefe fermons
for if tUoy be, in any meafure, truly ferviccable to
tlie end tor which they are dcfigned, I d."> not Ut
what af'Jogy is nccclTary ; and if they be not fo, 1

am fure nore can be fufficlent.

in Laeilius and Lycolihrncs.

Brcivnt Vutg. Err.

had a mind tu collect and digeli fuch obfer^ations and apf'pbtbigmt, as tend to the proof of t'lat
1

Priir.

great airertion. All is vanity.

APO'PHIGE. n.f.

[xTT'.<pvyr.,

flight, or

efcape.] Is, in architcrture, that part
of a column, where it begins to (pring
out of its bafe ; and was originally no

more than the ring or ferrel, which anciently bound the extremities of wooden
pillars, to keep them from ipHtting,
and were afterwards imitated in ftone
work. We fometimes call it the fpring
Chambers.
of the column.

APO'PHVSIS. n.f [i-ri^vai:.] The prominent parts of fome bones ; the lame
as procels.
it differs from an epiphyfis,
as it is a continuante of the bone itfelf
whereas the latter is fomewhat adhering to a bone, and of which it is
i^imy.
not properly a part.
;

Xoyi*.]
1.

Any remedy wliich caufcs an
evacuation of ferous or mucjus humour
by the noftrils, as particular kinds of
!;>.umcy.
fternutatories.
A'poPHTHECM. n.f, [iw'^Siy^a.] Are
markabie faying ; a valuable maxim
uttered on fome fudden occafion.
Wc may ma^jnify the apophihigms, or reputed
replies of wildom, whereof many are to be fcen
^hiyjjisi.]

It is tiie apuphyjii, or head, of the os tibisc, whicli

makes the knee.

Appple'ctical.

that he doubts where to begin for the
multitude of matter, or what to fay i«»
fo«e llr.inge and ambiguous thing ;
and doth, as it were, argue the cafe
with himfelf. Thus Cicero fays. Whether he took them from his fellows more im~
pudently, gatie them to a harlot more laf~
ei-vioi(Jly, remo-vcd them from the Roman
people more luickedly, or altered them more
prefumptuoujly, I cannot iijcll declare.
Smith's Rhetorick.

APORRHO'EA, n.f.

by atomical aporrlceas, which palTing from the
crucntate weapon to the wound, and being incorporated with the particles of the falve, carry them
Glunviile's Scepjis,
to the .iiTctle.1 jiart.

APOSJOPE'SIS. n.f

[from

apoplexy.']

[iTTojtJwnai?, froni-

iva, after, ffnd irtuTrau, to be filent.]
A form of fpeech, by< which the fpeaker,
through fome affedion, as forrow, bafhanger, or vehemency,
fear,
fulnei's,
breaks off his fpeech before it be all
ended.
A figure, when, fpeaking of a
thing, we yet feein to conceal it, though
indeed we aggravate it ; or when the
courfe of the lentence begun is fo flayed,
thereby fome part of the fentcnce,
.as
not being utt^ed, may be underflood.

tyijcman't Surgery.

aJj,

Smith's Rhetorick.

Apo'stasy.

n.f.

[aTTOi-acri;.]

Departure-

man has profefTed

Relating to an apoplexy.

from what a

AVe meet with the fame complaints of gravity
in lis ing bodies, when tlie faculty locomotive foems

generally applied to religion ;
times with the particle //w/).

abolilbcd ; as may be obfjtved in fupportirg perfons
inebriated, ^popliUkal, or in lipotbymies and fwnon£ii.tvn't t^ulgar Errcurt,

inga.

In an apifUSlica! cafe, he fmnd extravniatcd
blood making way liom the ventricles of the brain.

Derham.

Apop l e'cti c k. adj. [from apoplexy.'] Relating to an apoplexy.
A lady wai feiica with an ap.p/tPici fit, which
afterward terminated in fome kiud of lethargy.
ffifcinan.

TiUbffon.

Efflu--

[aTrofpi^r,.]

vium-; emanation ; ibraething emitted
by another : not in ufe.
The reafon of this he endeavours to make out

:

it

is

fome-

The canon law dinacs ap'-Jicfy to be a wilful departure from that ftatc of faith, which any pt-rfcn
his proftffed himfelf to hold in tlie Chriftian church.
Ayliffe's Purergoti.

The affable archangel had forewarn'd
Adam, by due example, to beWare
ApuJIafy, by what bclel in heav'n
To thofe apoftates.

,

Milton,

Vice in us were not only wlckednefs, but aprftaJy, de^ienerate

wickednefs.

Sprat,

Whoever do give dift'erent worrtiipt, muft bring
in more gods ; which is an apajlafy from one God.

Apomeco'metry.b./ [«Tr3,from, n?x®- A'popLEX. ».y; [See Apoplexy.] ApoSiillingjieet.
The lall fyllable is cut away
plexy.
diftancc, and/.<.i)^i'«,torneafure.] The art
APO'STATE. n.f [apojlata, Lat. arobut this is only in poetry.
of meafuring things at a diftance. Di3.
One that has fbifaken his pror«T»ic.]
Piefent punirtiment purines his maw.
JPONEURO^&IS. n.f., [from i^ri, from,
generally applied to one thatfcfEon
When forfeited and fwiill'd, the peacock raw
and ttv^ot, a nerve.] An expanfion of
has left his religion.
bath; whence want of breath,
He bears into
;

;

t)iL

a nerve into a membrane.

ReplctioiM, epiplix, intcftatc death.

Uryiin.

The angels, for 'oilobcdiencf, thou'Uaft rcfevvei

N i

t4 i*'

.A -'

A P O

A P O

M * mtfcrable immortality; bat uato man, equally
rtbellious, e()ually aftfljle frtm thee

thou haft given a Saviour.

Rcgers*i Serm^tti,

jtfeSaiti in point of faith, arc, according to the
civil law, I'ubjeA

unto

all

puniflimenta ordained

againti hereticks.

-^lif'-

;

belonging to an apoftle.
Their oppofitions in maintenance of publick hagainft apujlidick endeavours, were vain
and frivolous.
llmker.
Or where did I at fore tradition ftrike.
Provided ftill it were afcflolUkf
Dfydtn.

perltition

SanJyi.

Te Apo'statize. v. n. [from apoftate.'\
:

APO'STROPHE.

n.f. [i^or^oipn, from
awo, from, and rj/pw, to turn.]

religion.

None revolt from the faith, becaufe they muft
not look upon a woman to luft after her, but becanfe
they are reftrained from the perpetration of their
lufts.
If wanton glance^, and lib! iinous thoughts,
had been permitted by the gofpel, they would have
aptjlatntd nevcrthelefc

1.

;

corrupt into matter.
There is care to be taken in abfceflSra Tjf the
breaft and belly, in danger of breaking inwards;
yet, by opening tbefe too foon, they fometimei
afofttKote again, and become crude.

thering of a hollow purulent tumour.
Nothing can be more admirable than the many
ways nature hath provided for preventing, or curing of fevers ; as, vomitings, «/i^oB«f;«ij, falivations, fife.

A'posteme.

'

Smith's Rhetorick.

fyifctr.an.

Apostema'tion. n.f. [from apojiemate.]
The formation of an apofteme ; the ga-

Grnv.
7 «./ [<liror»/ia.]

A hollow

A'postume.J

In rhetorick, a diverfion of fpeech to
another perfon than the fpeech appointed did intend or require ; or, it is a
turning of the fpeech from one perfon
to another, many times abruptly.
figure when we break off the courfe of
our fpeech, and fpeak to fome new perfou, prefent or abfcnt, as to the people
or witneffes, when it was before direfted to the judges or opponent.

A

Bntky.

TV Apo'stemate. f. ». \imm apoftemeJX
To become an apofteme to fwcU and

2.

In grammar, the contraftion of a word
by the ufe of a comma, as, tha' , for

moil.

Siifif!.

To Apo'strophize. v.

h.

[from apo-

To

apojlro^bix'mg

generally applied only to

Pope,

Saviour

deputed

Harvey.

to

To A'posTUME. v.n. [from apojlume.] To

Shakeffiare.

Apo'thecary. n. /. [npotheca, Lat. a
repofitory.]
A man whofe employment

apoftemate.

But all hit mind is bent to holinefs ;
His champions are the prophets and afifila.
I

caufes a confumption in the parts, is apparent.

particularly applied to

preach the gofpel.

am far from

pretending infallibility; that
would be to eredl myfelf into an afifite': a prefumption in any one that cannot confirm what he
fays by miracles.
i„,i,.

We know but a fmill part of the notibn of an

cftfiU, by knowmg barely that he is fent forth.
}ye:ts'$ Ligick.

Apo'stleship. »./

[froma/o/?/;.]

The

office ot dignity of an apoftle.

Where, becaufe faith is in too low degree,
1 tliought it fome afriftUJhif in me

To fpeak things, which by faith alone 1 fee. Donnt.

is

which are all confined within the bufiDcfs of his afMrfi'if, and fo contain nothing but
points of Chrinian ir.ftruftion.
Lockt.

[from apoJlolUk .'\
Delivered or taught by the apoftles
adj.

freflj

air,

and that fuch an one, as never fends
South.

Tbomfofft

preffion ; difcouragement ; impreilion of
fear.

As the furious Daughter of them was a great
difcuuragement and appaiement to the reft.
Bacon i Hinry VII,

A'p P A N A o E. n.f. [nppanagium, low Latin ;
probably from pants, bread.] Lands fet
apart by princes for the maintenance of
their younger children.
He became fuitor for the earldom of Chefter, X
kind of appanage to Wales, and ufing to go to the
Bacon,
king's fon.
Had he thought it fit
That wealth (hould be the appanage of wit.
The God of light could ne'er have been fo blind,

To deal it to the worft of human kind.

which fee. ]

[ properly

vided as means to any certain end, as
the tools of a trade ; the furniture of a
houfe } ammunition for war ; equipage j
ftiow.

There is an apparatus of things previous to be
adjuHcd, before 1 come to the calculation itfelf.
1Voodv>arJ,
Ourfelves are eafily provided for ; it is nothing
but the circumftantials, the apparatui or equipage
of human life, that coits fo much.

apophthegm i

A remarkable faying.

By frequent converfing with him, and fcattering
ihort apothegmi,

and

little

picafant

ftories,

and

making ufeful applications of them, his fon was,
in his infancy, taught to abhor vanity and vice as

monfters.

IValtcnt Life of Sandcrfin.

[asroSiwa-i;.] Deifica-

tion ; the rite of adding any one to the

number of gods.

Pope's Letters to Gay^

APPA'REL. n.f.
1 cannot

As if it could be graved and painted omnipoafottee/ii.

opon fctiptutc, reafon, t/a/lolkal praaice, and an^

Siutb.

off.]
I.

InmaUiemaucks, th? remainder or dif-

[tip.

cog and fay, that thou art this and that^

many ot thofe lifping hawthorn buds, that
come like women in men's apparel, and fmell like
BucklerHiury in fimpting time.
Sbakefpeari' i Merry ffives of fKindfor,

Garth.

Apo'tomb. n.f. [from ivorfuiu, to cut

has no phiral.

like

Allots the prince of his celeftial line

An apitheojis, and rites divine.

//«,>^.

It

pared, Fr.]
1. Drefs ; vefture.

tent, or the nails and the hammer could give it an

Declare yourfelf forthatchurch which is founded

Sivifr,

Appara'tus. n.f. [Latin.] Things pro-

They, lab'ring for relief of human kind,
With fliarpen'd fight fome remedies may find;
Th' apothecary -tx^m is wholly blind.
Diyden.

A'pOTHEGM.B./

De-

ApPA'LEMErrT. n.f. [from appal.]

Phyficians, for the tree, have found the bark

Tliey acknowledge not, that the cbtfrch keeps
«ny thing as aftfitlka!, which is not found in the
apofUes writings, in what other records foever
it

Apo»to'li c ALLY. bJv. [from apofitlical.']
In the manner of the apolUes.
Aposto'licalne5». a./ [from afvfioli.

Shekefp. King Lear.

them to the apcthecary.
Wand'ring in the dark,

Apothe'osis. n.f.

belonging to the apoftles.

'"JO'ty-

to keep medicines for fale.
Give me an ounce of civet, good apothecary, to

They have no other doflor but the fun and the

epiftles ;

Aposto'lical,

Dii3.

fweeten my imagination.

GoJhath ordered it, that St. Paul hath writ

:

it is

word is properly apcflcm.'] A hollow
tumour filled with purulent matter.
How an npojiume in the mefentcry, breaking,

them whom our

to deprds ; to difcourage.
;
Whilft ihe fpake^hcr great word^ did appal
My feeble courage, and my heart opprefs,
Fairy £^
That yet I quake and tremble over ail.
Give with thy trumpet a loud note to Troy,
Thou dreadful Ajax ; that th' apfalUd air
May pierce the head of thy great combatant.

Eumaeus, and fpeaking of him in

tioD be perfefled, wcakeneth the heat, and renders
them crude.
H^ifcmar..

is

To fright; to ftrike with fud«

den fear

this alarum ; but took time to conlidcr of it till
Clarendon,
next day.
Does neither rage inflame, nor fcar appal.
Nor the black fear of death that faddens all ? Fafc
The mrnfter curls
His flaming creft, all other thirft appall'd,
Or fliiv'ring flies, or choak'd at dillance ftands.

A'posTUME. »./ SeeAposTEME. [This

It

pale.]

abbreviating words with apajirafba ; and by lopping polyfyllables, leaving one or two fyllables at

The opening of apoflcmis, before the fuppura-

A perfon fent with mandates by

To APPA'L. 'V. a. [^appalir, Fr. It might
more properly have been written ap-

Shakijpeare^

the fecond perfon :
men of account.

another.

During this evacuation, he took opening broths
IVifcman'i Surgery,
and apoaems.
Squirts read Garth till apoxems grow cold. Gay,

The houfe of peers was fomewhat appalled at

of the lungs, or afoftemei of the brain, do happen
only in the left fide.
Brmin'i Vulgar Errours.

A®..]

by boiling ingredients.

Many laudable attempts have been made, by

addrefs by an apoftrophe.
Jlrophe.'\
1 here is a peculiarity in Homer's manner of

Lat. anoro-

In mufick, it is the part remaining of
an entire tone, after a greater femiione*
The proporhas been taken from it.
tion in numbers of the npctome, is that
of 2048 to 2187. The Greeks thought
that the greater tone could not be divided into two equal parts ; for which
reafon they called the firft part atr!iTe/iii,
Chamhers.
and the other >7iy,»«.
A'pozem. n.f. [as-l, from, and {ta, to
boil] A decoflion ; an infafion made

z.

though ; rep" for reputation.

fwelling, filled with purulent matter ; an abfcefs.
Wiih equal propriety we may affirm, that ulcers

APO'STLE. n.f. [apofiolus.

of two incommenfnrable qaan«

tiiies.

Aposto'lick. adj. [from apofilt. The
accent is placed by Dryden on the
antepenult.]
Taught by the apoftles

ter the manner of an apollate.
To wear turbants is an tifcfiatical conformity.

it is commonly ufed of one who departs from his

ftretice

apoftles ; apollolical authority.

Aposta'tical. aJJ. [from apofiate.\ Af-

To forfake one's profeffion

The quality of relating to the

ra/.]

and guodnefs,

A P P

2.

External habiliments.
Our late buint London, in apparel new,
Shook oft' her afhes to have treated you.
ffaller.
At pubtic]( devotion, his rcfigotd carriage made
iciigiM

A P P
rttigioa appear in

A P P
A jlorJoBS tpferition

the natural afpanl of -fimpll-

city.

[fiom apparel, the

a.

1/.

Any thing befides may take frotti me the fenf;

To drefs

of what appeared ; which appariiim, it feems, was

to clothe.

;

>'"«•

With fuch robes were the king's d.lughters that
Vtttv\-!%mi afptireUed.
2 Sam. xiii. 18.
Both combatants were tfftrelled only in theii
doublets ar.d hofes.

2.

3.

it

4.

Still there's

to furnilh : not in ufe.
;
been agreed, that either of them (hould

Which is an apparition, this or that.

I

—

unto man's underftanding, were to take
away all polTibiUty of knowing any thing. Hooker.
2. Seeming; in appearance ; not real.
intelieclive often correils the
report of phantaly, as in the apparent bignefs of

3. Vifible

What

in oppolition to/ecret.
fecret imaginationi
we entertained

I .

z.
is

known to God ; this is apparent, that we have

4.

Open

;

known ; not merely

evident ;

the pope to the apparitcr.

1.

appayed,

Eliipticaily ufed for

And in that quarrel ufe it.
Sbakefp. Henry Vl.
Appa'rently. adv. [from apparent.^

is

It is

;

to content:

pleafed ;

;'//

whence

appayed,

Arreft him, officer
I would not fpare my brother in this cafei
If he ihould fcom me fo apparently,

Tilktfin.

^

to appear.]

Appearance ; vifibility.
When fudden'y ftood at my head a dream,
Whofe inward appariti.n gently mov'd

My fancy.
Milim.
My retirement tempted me to divert thofc melancholy thoughts which the new apparitioni o(
foreign invafion and domeftic difc»ntent gave us.

So only can high juftice reft afpaid.

To accufe

A thoufand blnfhing apparitiont
j

a

thoufand

innjc»nt

fhames

In asgei w1ukdc1« bear away tliofe blufbes.

And put your trial in the villain's mouth,

Which themappeethed; frick'd with guilty (h.ime,
And inward grief, he fierc-ly gen approach,

Sbak.

Shakefpcare.

Haft thou, according to thy oath and bond,
'
Brought hither Henry Hereford, thy bold fon.
Here to make good the boift'rous late appeal
Againft the duke of Norfolk ?
Shakijpears,

A fummons to anfwer a charge.

3.

Nor Oiall the facved charailer of king
Be urg'd to ihield me from thy b.)ld appeal;
If I have injur'd thee, that makes us tcjiial, Dryd.

for your paflions

Have to the full appeaihcd.
Sbakejpeare.
z.
To cenfure ; to reproach ; to taint
with accufation.
For when Cymochles faw the foul reproach.

4.

A call upon any as witnefs.

The cafting up of the yes, ,ind lifting up of
is a kind of appeal to the Deity, the
author of wonders.
Bacon,
1

the hands,

Appe'alant.

n. /.

[from appeal.}

He

that appeals.
Lords appealantt.

Refolv'd to put away that lordly fliame.

Fairy Si.
Norcanft, nor durft thou, traitor, on thy pain,
Appeacb my honour, or thine own maintain.

Your diff'rences fhall all reft undar gage.
Till we alTign you to your days of trial.
Sbakefp,

DryJen.

A p p e'a L E R ». /. [from appeal, j One who

•\ppe'achment. ». / [from
exhibited againft

.

makes an appeal.

appeac/j.]

any

man

;

A bufj-licaJed man gave firft light to this appemhmer.t ; but the eari di.l avouch it. Hnyward.
The duke's anfwers to his appeachments, in
number thirteen, I find civilly CvusbfJ.

TVet^im.

a

Cornell.

Which here you come to accufe.

Sbakefp. Rich. II.

accufation.

have mark'd

declaratiarl

The duke's imjuft.
Thus to retort your manifeft appeal.

Difclofe
;

which is a lawful

^^^'

:

fon.

The .late of your afFeftion

;

and

to inform againfl any per-

My fon, I would apptach him.

Mdfon.

In the common law.

of any felon, by one of his accomplices in
the

Ay, Willy, when the heart is ill alTay'd,

Charge

fible objeft.

Drydcn.
of juftice, from whom

for the private accufation cf a murderer,
by
party who had intereft in the party murdered,

Milton.

The fenfe is obfcure in thefe lines

Denbttm.

The thing appearing; a form ; a vi-

To ftart into her face

!

I am well appaid that you had rather believe,
than take the pain of a long pilgrimage.
Camden.

I.

diftributers

of another man's crime before a competent judge,
by one that fets his name to the declaration, and
undertakes to prove it, upon the penalty that
may enfue of the contrary ; more commonly ufed

Sidney.

2.

are

An accufation

un-

Bacon's Henry VII.

Appari'tion. «./ [from appareo, La.t.

I

is

now obfolete.

Were he twenty times

Shakifpeare't Comedy of Erreuri.
Vices apparently tend to the impairing of men's

2.

I.

m^ell

He did, amongll many others, appeacb Sir William Stanley, the lord chamberlain.

Evidently ; openly.

1.

,

There

How can bagpipe or joints be well appaid!" Spenfcr,
To APPE'ACH. -v. a.

Draw thy fwprd in right.
—I'll draw it as apparent to the crown.

he»>t!i.

Ayliffe's Parergon.

How well appaid flie was her bird to find

Shaiefpeare s RichjrdUl.

Sbakefp. Henry VIIT,

Our reafon prompts us to a future ftate.
The laft appeal from fortune mi from fate.
Where God's all-righteous ways will be declii'd.'
there lies an appeal to the prince.

To fatisfy
eaj'y.

In my opinion ought to be prevented,

heir apparent.

Deliver them, and your appeal to us

There make before them,

lisfy.]

As well the fear of harm, as harm apparent.

Appa'hent. ». /

Such perlbns as are at hand to execute
the proper orders of the magiftrate or

To Appa'y. -v. a. \appayer, old Fr. to fa-

fufpefted.

5. Certain ; not prefumptive.
He is the next of blood
And heir apparent to the Engiilh crown.
Shaiifpiere's Henry VI.

while fufpended, in refpciifof the
caufe ; the cognizance being devolvec^
to the fuperior j udge.
Jy life's Parerg.
This ring
a

judge of any court of judicature. Ayliffe.
The lowell officer of the ecclefiaftical
court ; a fummoner.
They fival lowed all the Roman hierarchy, from

;

not behaved ourfelves, a$ if we preferved a grateful remembrance of his mercies.
Auerbury.
The outward and apparent fanftity of ailions
Should flow from purity of heart.
Revert.

ferior /» a fuperior judge, whereby the
jurifdiftion of the inferior judo-e is for

to be at hand.]

the fun, the apparent crookedncls of the ftati' in
air and water.
HaUi Origin cf Mankind.

Shakefpeare,

,

Appe al. 71./. [from the verb To appeal.^
I. An appeal is a provocation /ri?/« an in-

Appa'ritors. a./, [from appareo, Lat.

The perception

to accui'e : a

term of law.
One but flatters us.
As well appeareth by the caufe you come.
Namely, t' appcaUmh other of high treafon.

Den. Sophy.

commoi-ly difappeareth ; and this containeth but
twenty-fix days and twelve hours.
Broivns Vulgar Erroun.

itfcif

Locke..

,

To charge witli a crime ;

1

Aftronomically, the vifibility of foaie
luminary, oppofed to eccultation.
A month of apparition is the fpace wherein the
moon appcareth, deduifting three days wherein it

5.

Lat.]
1. Plain; indubitable; not doubtful.
The main principles of reafun are in thcmfelves apparent.
For to make nothing evident of

Whether this, that the fiul always thinks, be
afelr-cvidentpiopofjcion, I appeal to mankind.
rp

fight.^

Appa'rent. aJ/.

Stepney.

To call another as witnefs.

3.

4.

fend (hips to fea well

manned and apparelled to
Sir J. Hayward.
apparent, Fr. apparens,

And to their caufe and to the gods appcal'd.

lumething

That checks my joys
Nor can I yet diftinguifh

It batli

Locke.
,

1 hey knew no foe, but in the open field

Something only apparent, not real.

To fit out

againft an

'"^^j',<^^-

and app'iritims, wherewith maids fright them into compliance.
Locke.
One of thofe apparitions had his right band
filled with darts, which he brandiihed in the face
of ail wiio came up that way.
Tatkr.
4.

appeal to for relief, is the
the want of fuch an ap-

is

aggredbr, though he be in fociety, and a feliow-

fions of goblins, fpr(ftres,

You may have trees affarelUd with flowers, by

of war; and it

ftate

peal gives a man the right of war, even

Tender minds rtinuld not receive eajly inipref-

To cover, or deck, as with drefs.

the

common

fuperior on earth to

Shakejpearis Hamlet.

Sidney,

boring holes in them, and putting into them ca.th,
and fetting feeds of riolets.
Bacait.
Shelves, and rocks, and precipices, and gulfs,
being appardUd with a verdure of plants, would
refcmble mountains and valleys.
BiniUy^i Scrm.

Force, or a declared fign if force, upon
perfon of another, where there is no

He may approve our eyes, and Ipeak to it.

mort fumpCuous.

Hooker:

To refer to another as judge.

2.

a walking fpirit.

Horatio fays 'tis but our phant.ify,

To adorn with drefs.

cioufneis of her body made

;

To transfer a caule from one to another ; with the particles to and/rom.
From the ordinary therefore they appeal to themj
'"'Jj;"-

Tat/er.

A fpeftre

Touching this dreaded fijhc twice fecnof us;
Thcrerorc I h.ire inrreatcd him.
That if again this apparition come.

Hay-uiard.

She did appanl her apparel, and with the pre-

J.

1.

MJ:on.

noun.]
1.

nAPPE'AL. nj.n. [appel/o. Lit.]

And carnal fear, that day dimm'd Adam's eyes.

Tathr.

To Appa'rei.

A P P

had no doubt,

1

To APPE'AR. --v. n. [appareo, Lat.]
I.

To be in fight

to be vilible.
;
As t.,c lcpri4yfl/./)M«/i in the Ikin of the flc/Ji.
Lcii. xiii. 43^

And half her knee and half her breaft appear.

By art, like nes''S<"C«> dtfcios'd and bare. Prior,
2.

To

A P P

A P P

To become vifible as a fpirit.

2.

For I have afpmrcd unto th« for this purp^ft, to
make thee a minilier and a witnefs. jIRt, xxvi. i6.

Ihape Kiicounteifeit, ftiould think It poflible fur
him to InftruO his p!a)er.
Baecn.

AfPE'ARER.n,/. [ from To oppiar.l The

To ftand in the prefence of another,

3.

generally ufcd of ftanding before fome
iuperiour ; to offer hirafelf to <he judgment of a tribunal.
When fliaU I come and afftar before God ?
Pfalm, xlii. z.

perfon that appears,
Thit owh anil ravens

;

counfel he aplcalith the deep, and
planteth iflands therein.
Ecclus. xliii. 13.
England had no Icifure to think of reformation,
till the civil wars were appcajed, and peace Icttled.
Do'vies on Ireland.

2.

Spenferi inland,
by an ancient record.
7. To feem, in oppofition to reality.
His firft and principal care being to app^.tr unto
his people, fuch as he would have them be, and
Sidney.
to be <iich as he appeared.
.

; to reconcile ; to ftill wrath.
So Simon was appcajed towards them, and
fought no more againli tiicra.
J Mac. xiii. 47.
O God if my deep prayers cannot appeaje thee,
Yet execute thy wrath on me alone.
Staiefpeare's Richard 111.
The reft rtiall hear me call, and oft be warnM
Their fmful ftate, and to appeffe betimes
!

My nobie roafter will appear
Such as he is, full of regard and honour. Sbaie/p.
To be plain beyond difpute.

From experiments, ufeful indications may be

To pacify

Th' incenfcd Deity.
3.

To ftill

J

taken, as v.U\ appear by what follows. j^iiL:inot.

;

as,

the remarkable

difclofeth fuch appearances, as will not lie even in

any model extant.

Ciar.'ville's

Zapfis.

4. Semblance ^ not reality.

He encreafed in ellimatton, whether by delUny,
rr whether by his virtues, or at lead by his apHayward.
pearances of virtues.
Heroic virtue did his a£iions guide.
And he the fubftance not th' appearance chofe.
Vrydcn.

The hypocrite would not put on the apf.arar.ce
«f virtue, if it was not the moft proper means to
Add\j,n.

gain love.

5. Outfide ; (how.
Under a fair and beautiful appearance there
{hould ever be the real fubltance of good.

Rogers.

6. Entry into a place or company.

Do the fame juftice to one another, which will
be done us hereafter by thofe, who (hall make
their appearance in the world, when this generation
Addifcn.
is no more.

Apparition ; fupernatural vifibility.

y.

think a pcrlbn terrified with the imagination
of fpeflres, more reafonable than one who thinks
Addifon.
the appearance of fpirits fabulous.
1

Exhibition of the perfon to a court.

8.

not tarry ; no, nor ever more
Upon this bufincfs my appearance make
Shakcfp. Henry VIII.
In any of their courts.
I will

Q,

Open circumftance of a cafc.
How ftiall his innocence be clear ?
Appearances were all fo ftrong.
The world mull think him in the wrong.

Health, wealth, vidlory, and honour, are introduced j wifdora enters the laft, and fo captivates with her appearcjnce, tliat he gives bimfelf up
Addifin.
_

_

_

11. Probability; feeming ; likelihood.
There is that which hath no appearance, that
this

pricll

being

Appe'aser. n.f.

utterly unacquainted wltli the

true peifon, according to wliofe p altera he Ihuuld

a

To APPE'ND. f a. {appendo, Lat. to hanrf
to any thing.]
1. To hang any thing, upon another ; as,
the infcription was appended to the co.

lumn
2.

:

the feal is appended to the record.

I'o add to fomething, as an acceflbry,
not a principal part.

necelTiiry to its

Modelty is the appendage of fobriety, and is
to chaftity, to temperance, and to humility, as
the fringes are to a garment.
Tayhr^s Rule of living holy.
None of the laws of motion now eftablillicd,
will ferve to account for the produdlicn, motion,
or number of bodies, nor their appcv.dagcs, though
they may help us a little to conceive their appearances.
Chtyne.
He was fo far from over-valuing any of the
appendages of life, that the thoughts of life did
not afteil him.
Atterbuif^

He

[t'rom To appeafe.]

turbances.

Appe'li.ant. »./ [appello, Lat. to call.]
1. A challenger
one that fummons anJ

other to anfwer either in the lilts or in
a court of juftice.
In the devotion of a fubjefl's love.

hvvz' tiOt\tiT. adj. [French.]
1. Hanging to fomething elfe.
Belonging to ; annexed ; concomitant.
He that delpifes the world, and all its appendant

2.

And free from other milbegotten hate.
Come I appellant to this princely prefence.

Sbak.

He that looks for the blellings appendant to the
facrament, mu!l expert them upon no terms, but
of a worthy communion.
Taylor,
Riches multiplied beyond the proportion of out
clurdiler, and the wants appendant to it, naturally

Th' armourer and his man, to enter the lifts.
Shalejpeare.

Thefc (hifts refuted, anfwer thy appellant.
Though by his blindncfs mainAl for high attempts,

higher power.

difpofe men to forget God.

3.

R'jgcrs,

In law.
Appendant

any thing belonging to another,
ad*
An hofpitat
junt^itmfubjcffo, with the logicians.
may be appendant to a manour ; a common of
is

as accc/f.ytum prircipali, with the civilians, or

An appeal transfers the cognizance ot the caufe
to the foperior judge ; fo that, pending the appeal,
nothing can be attempted in prejudice of the apAyliffe's Perergot:.

pellant.

Appe'llate. n.f. [appellatus, Lat.] The
perfon appealed againft.

An appellatory libel ought to contain the name
of the party appellant ; the name of him from
whofe fcntcnce it is appealed ; the name of him
to whom it is appealed ; from what fentence it is
appealed ; the day of the fentence pronounced,
againil

whom the appeal is

». /.

\appellatlo, Lat.]

Ayliffe's Parcrgon

Appella'tion.

Tayhr,

vanities, is the moft fccurc.

This ii the day appointed for the combat.

And ready are th' appellant and defendant,

Who now defies thee thrice to fingle fight. Millcn.
2. One that appeals from a lower to a

eflence, as a portico to

the houie.

that pacifies others ; he that quiets dif-

;

is

late.
Appe'llee. n.f. [from appeal.] One who
DiS.
is appealed againft, and accufed.

Being nci:iier in numbers nor in courage great,
by authority, partly by entreaty, they Were
Jlaytvard.
reduced to fome good appcaferrrents.

Name

man

to fignify a ft rang man.

A ftate of peace.

lodged

Swift.

thiy

Appe'llatory. adj. [from appeal.'] That
which contains an appeal. See Appel-

Drydin,

peafe.

apptltatc, at perfoji

10. Prefence; mien.

as,

Hercules is ufed appellativflj,

added to another thing, without being

and appeal iiitcrpofed ; and the name or the party

Or grant her palTion be fmcere.

to her-

Hercules.

partly

Phcenomena ; that quality of any thing
which is vifible.
The advancing day of experimental knowledge

3.

According
nouns appellative ;
ti've.'\

Appe'ndace. n.f. [French.] Something

Appe'asbment. n.f. [fvom To appea/e.]

The thing feen

[from appellato the manner of

ad<v.

The reft

were furprifed by the fudden appearance
of the enemy.
uppearetncts in the iky.

tor they all agree to
fVaiis''s Logich.

Milton.

They Cut in legs and fillets for the feaft.
Which drawn and feiv'd, their hunger they af-

2.

So

are common names ;

to quiet.

Appe'aRANCB. n.f. [from To app(ar.'\
as, they
1. The aft of coming into fight
;

whether general
<i//W/nrk'».

river,

man, city,

Appe'llatively.

ap-

his

called

man) individuals, and iumr to many fpccies.

peafed ; reconcileablenefs.

By

Thefe are

and fo are trout, eel, lobfter;

fl(h, bird,

The quality of being eafily ap-

pea/e.]

To be made clear by evidence.

S.

or fpecial.

Brotvn,

conception.

To exhibit one's felf before a court of To APPE'ASE. 'V. a. [appai/er, Fr.]
1. To quiet ; to put in a Hate of peace.

Egfrid did utterly wade and lubdue it, as uppears out of Beda's complaint againfl him j and
£dg>r brought it under his obedience, as appeart

Common names are fuch as ftand for univerfal

'

ideas, or a whole rank of bcingi,

App ERASABLE, aeij. [from To appea/e.']
That may be pacified reconcileable.

juftice.
Keep comfort to you, and this mnrmng fee
You do affpeitr before them. §hakefp. Hen, VUI.

6.

!

ominous apptarirs,
and prefignify unlucky evcntsi, was an wgurial

Let thy work afftar unto thy fervants, and
thy glory unto their chilJrep.
Pfalmy %z. 16.
5.

ihtn.'i.iATivi.u.f. [apptllativum, Lat.]
Words and names are either common or proper.

are

Appe'asableness. n.f. [from To

To be the objeft of obfervation.

4.

A P P

word by which any thing is

called.

filhing appendant to a freehold.

Appe'.vdant. n.J~.

CcnvcU,

That which belongs

thing, as an accidental or
adventitious part.
to another

Pliny gives an account of the inventors of the
forms and appendants of (hipping.
Hale's Origin of Mankind.

A word, a look, a tread, will ftrike, as they are
appendants to external fymmetry, or indications of
the beaaty of the mind.
Grenv,

To Appe'kdicate. f. a. [a/i^^Wu, Lat.]
To add to another thing.
In a palace there

is

tlie

cale or fabrick of the

ftrufture, and there are certain additaments;

as,

various furniture, and curious motions of divers

Nur ure always the fame plants delivered under
the fame name and appellaiim.

Brpwn^s Vulgar Errtturs.

Good and evil commonly operate upon the minci
of man, by rcfpeilive names or appellations, by
which liny arc notified and conveyed tg the mind.
Siuth.

things appendicaied to it.

Hale,

Appen djca'tion. n.f. [from apperidicate.]

Adjunft ; appendage; annexion.

There are confidcrablc p.irts and integrals, and
appendii-ations unto tin mundus afpecJaiilis, impoffi.
blc to be eceraal.

HfU,

App£'nj)»x.

{appendices, plur. Lat.]

d-firefh, differeth greatly from that inferiournatu-

Something appended, or added, to an-

The objeft of
atftiili is whatfoever fenfible good may be wifhcd

Appe'ndix. n.f.
1.

does lead us to feek.

Urge his hateful luxury.

And beflial appetite in change of lult.
iihakefpcarf^s Richard III.

Each tree
Loaden with faireil fruit, that hung to th* eye
ftirr'd
Tempting,
in me fudden appetite

An adjunft or concomitant.

To plucic and cat.

Dawes.
from him.
gion ought to be inforccd by the fword, would be;
Hopton had an extraordinary appetite to engage
found affertaining to Mahomed the falfe propliet.
Clarendon.
Waller In a battle.
Raldgb.
4. The thing eagerly defired.
The Father, f' whom in heav'n fupreme
Power being the natural appetite of princes, a liKingdom, and power, and glory apperfairtSi
mited monarch cannot gratify it.
Stvift.
Hath honour'd m", according to his will. Par. Lcfi.
Keennefs of. llomach j hunger ;, 4efire
to by nature or appointment.; 5.

of food.

If the foul of man did ferve only to give him being in this life, then lh'\ri%% appertaining to this life
would content him, as we fee they do other crea-

contraction ;

vellication,

Baconi Natural Hijlcry.
There is continual abundance, which creates

EfJni!.

feft, but fuch as apferiaineLb .o tlieir proper objects

fuch an appetite in your reader, th.it he is not
cloyed with any thing, but fatisfied with all. Dryd.

Bacon,

6. It has fpmetimes cfh^ote the objefl of

Both of them feem not to generate any otiier cf-

That afl^rtain to you ?

know

m

fccrets

[from apperThat which belongs to any rank

Our a^pcrtainmcntiy vifiting of him.
Skakeffi.
ApPe'rten ANCE. «./. [appartenanceyFc]
That which belongs or relates to another

tcnanties oi arts,

and receptaries of philofoph) f
Bro^vni yul^ar Ernars.

tain.]

lity of dtfiring.

To furnilh him with all atftrtinmii
Belonging to his honour.

Stakfffi. Jitrry V.

delire.
Bred only and completed to the tafte

Of lultful afpittnce

;

appetihle.]

That fliciration which the fchools intend, is a
deducing of the power of tlie will into a&, merely
from the nfftt.^iiuy of the objeft, as a man d.aws
a child after him wiili the light of a green bough.
Bramball againjl Hibbti.

[nppetibilis,Lzx.]

appetite.
i'o*er both to flight the mofl at^etilli objefts,
and to controul the mod unruly pjf'.ons.
Brambali agairjl Hobbes.

;

'i

he wi.l properly and ilri^ly taken, as it
cefcncd unto the end Chat

To praife in general.
Nations unbone your mighty names fliall f'und,
And worjds apflaud-\iat mud not jct be found
.',
.

:-w'

yope.
.

Appla'uder. n,/. [from applaud. ] He
that prailcj or commends.
I

had the voice of my fuiglc reafon againll it,

drowned in the noife of a multitude of applauders.

Milkr.

Oaks

and. beeches laft longer than apples and

Bacon.

pears.

Thus apple-tret! "^ihcffc trunks are ftron^ to bear

Apple. WOMAN, n.f. [from apple and
'woman.'\ A woman that fells apples,
that keeps fruit on a ftall.
\ oodiir are two appie-ivotntn fcolding, and juil
ready to uncoifone another.
Arl^uthnot and Popt.

is

of

man

Appi.i'AnLE. adj. [from apply.] That
which may be applied. For this word
the modern.'; ufe applicable ; which fee.
Li Tiit,ition'.f all (uch principles liave, in regard of
the varieties of the matter whcreunto they arc appt.ahle.

Clanvil!e''sScepJis.

Appla'use. a.y:

Ap-

[applaiifiis.'Lsii.]

probation loudly
properly a clap.

exprefTcd ;

praiic

:

This general applaufe, and chearful (hout.
Argues your wifdom and your love to Richard.
^bakejpeare.

[appetitus, Lat.]

The natural defire of good the inrtinft
by which we are led to feek pleafure.
Ihir.gk wliich ate

pippin, ftone pippin,,

Their I'preading boughs, txcrt themlelves in air.
Drydtn.

Norris.

De-

firable ; that which may be the obje£l of

A'PPETITR. »./.

Spencer's

'

The qoality of being defirable.

A'PPBTIBLE. a^'.

z.

pomme violette,

oakenpin. And thofc generally ufed for cyder are,
Devonlhire royal wilding, rcdllreaked apple, the

ration.

would applaud thee to the very echo,
That flioiiikl applaud again.
Seaktjp. Macbeth.

Millon.

^

1'he fruit of this tree is for the moft part hollowed about the foot ftalk j the cells incloling the
feed are feparated by cartilaginous partitions ; the
juice of the fruit is fourifh; the tree large and.
fpreading; the flowers oontift of five leaves,, expanding in form of a rofe. There is a gieat variety of ihefe fruits. Thofe for the dcfl'ert are, the
white juniting, Margaret apple, fummer pearmain,
fumnier queening, embroidered apple, golden rcinctce, fummer white Colvillc, fummer red Colville,
filver pippin, aromatick pippen, the gray reinette,
la hautc-bonte, royal rufl'eting, Wheeler's ruiTet,
Sharp's ruflet, fpice apple, golden pippen, nonpareil, and I'api. ^'hofc for the kitchen ufe are, codling, fummer marigold, fummer red pearmain,.
Holland pippin, Kentilli pippin, the hanging body.
Loan's pearmain, Frencli reinette, French pippin,
royal rulfet, monftruous reinette, winter pearmain,

whitfour, Herefordlhire underleaf, John apple, &c,

I

To drcfs, to troule the tongue, and roll the eye.

Boyle.

The wiil is not a bate appetitive power, as that of
the fenfual appetite, but is a rational appct:te.
Hale'i Origin of Mankind.
1 find in myfelf an appetitive f^iculty always in
execcife, in the very hei^c of activity and invigo-

To APPLAUD, -v. a. [applaudo, Lat.]
1. To praife by clapping the hand.

to ling, to dance.

Appetibi'litt. n. /. [from

^'"^'^ Ha/e.

which defires ; that which has the qua-

adj. [from To apperBelonging; relating.

A'ppetence. In./, [appeter.tia, Lat.]
A'PPETENCY. j" Carnal defue ; feniual

Hantniond^t PraSiicai Catechijvi.

A'ppetitive. ai/J. [from appetite.] That

You know h :w apt our l->vc wa* to accord

1.

Claretidon.

We find in animals an cftimative or judicial fa-

moll of them

Shakcjpeare*.

The adiual appeiiiion or fadening our affeftions

Appe'rtinekt.

plant,

Apple-tree. n.f. [from apple a.nd tree.l

Government of the Tongue.

C'llty, an appetiticn or averfation.

fame old

What, up and down carv'd like an apple^tart}

fire.

on him.

the

A tart made of apples.

.^ppeti'tion. n.f. [appetitio, Lat.] De-

thing.
Can they which behold the controvcrfy of divinity condemn our enquiries in the doubtful aj>pcr~

and

Appee-tart. n.f. [frQmfl///f and /cr/.J

Sometime^ to.
we greedily fuck it in.

He (hcnt our meflengers, and we lay by

up<in

adorned with fruit.

We have generally fuch an appetite to praifc, that

or dignity.

apple

We have feen three and twenty forts of apple
grafts

The new officer's nature needed fome reftraint
to his immoderate appetite 0/* power.

7.

[from

». f.

A twig of apple-tree grafted,

upon the Hock of another tree.

defire.

Shairff. 'julim Cajar.

Aptert a'inment. n. f.
tain.']

graft.]

and abHerfion j

bclides hunger, which is an emptinefs.

taintlbt as for the (acrifi<es, they fod them in brafs

Is it cxpefled, I Ihould

Apple-craft.

There be four principal caufes of appetite; the
nefs ;

And they roafted the patToTcr with fire, as affcr-

and lenfcs.

mon having long trailing

refriger.ition of the llomach, joined with fomedry-

IfoOitr.

1

Apples of love are of three forts ; the mod combranches, with rough
leaves and yellow joints, fucceeded by apples, as
joints,
they are called, at the
not round, but
bunched; of a pale orange Ihining pulp, and feed^
within.
Mortimcr^s Hujhandry

Milton^s Paradife Loji.

No niian could enjoy his life, his wife, or goods,
man had an appetite to take the fame

To belong

Deut. xxxii. I0>.

his eye.

Apple of Love.

if a mightier

The honour of devifing this doiSrinc, that reli-'

pots.

Tall thriving trees confcfs'd the fruitful mold ;

The redti'ning apple ripens here to gold. Fope^s Od*
2, The pupil of the eye.
He inltruiled him } he kept him as the apple of

thing.

with to.

tures.

A'PPLE. n.f. [xppel, Saxon.]
1
The fruit of the apple-tree.

Violent longing.; eagernefs after any

3.

To APPERTA'IN. c;. rt. [appartenir. Fr.]
:

that good which reafon
Hooker.

Wily, (he would hang on him.

noMcr dominion, and received a greater conformity
of their laws to the Englifh, than they gave to it.
Hiile^i Civil Law of England*

1. To belong to as of right

is

As if increafe of appetiu had grown
Shakefp. Hamlet.
By what it fed on.

Normandy became an cppcrJix to England, the

All concurrent ayftndicu of the aflion ought to
be furveyed, in order to pronounce with truth conffatti.
ceVning it.

came
For pride of empire, nor dtfire of fame;
Kings fight for kingdoms, madmen for applaufe^
But love tor love alone, that crowns the lover's caufe.
Drydens FaUes~

The defire of fenfual pleafure.

2.

Sti/Iirgflcct.

thing.

2.

the objcO of will

Jor ;

The cherubim were never intended as an objcfl
of worlhip, becaufe they were only the opfindices to
another thing. But a thing is then propol'ed as an
oljcft of worfliip, when i« is fet up by itfelf, and
not by way of addition or ornament to another

See their wide-ftreaming wounds ; they neither

ral defire, which we call affeiiti.

other thing.

2.

A P P

A P P

A P P

Sylla wept,

And cliid her barking waves into attention
And fellCharybuis murmur'd fofxappUuJc. Milton.
Thofc that arc fo fond of applauje, how little do
;

they tafte it when they have it!

South.

t/ooker.

All that 1 have faid of the heathen idolatry is.i^phahle to the idolatry of another fort of men in the
world
South.

Appli'ance. «./. [from a///y.] The aft
of applying; the thing applied.
Difeates dcfp'rate grown

By defpcrate appliance are relieved.

Shake/peart.

Are yi u rhat''d
A(k God for tempi tar.Cc, 'tis the appliance only
i*

Which your defire requires.

Shakefpeare.

A P L c A B i'l T y ». / [from applicable.]
1'

1

I

.

Itlt

AP-P

A P P

A P P

The qoolity of beiitg At to b< applied to

(ha&

fomething.

be any outward, it muft be Ae facramenta.

O

To furnifh in all points

4.

Apply fome fpeedy cure, prevent our tate.

The Englilh being well appointed, did fo enter-

And luccour nature ere it be too late.
Addijon.
God hae addrelfed every palhon of our nature,

la the chara^er,

there is a better or a vrorfelikencft ; t^ better is a

applied remedies to every wcaknefs, warned us of
every enemy.
R'.gcn.

MMuffeh't Prayer.
to equip ; to
;

fupply with all things ncceffary : ufed
anciently in fpeaking of foldiers.

Dryitn.

To lay medicaments upon a wound.

What he l'a)5 of the portrj'c of anjr particular
panegyrick, and the worfe « ltt>e!.
Dr^dcn,
It were happy for us, if this complaint were af^fsi/^ only to the heathen wetU.
Rogers.

.

He laid, and to tl.e fword his throat apfHti.
2.

lating to fomething.

and immediately thou

appointej^
death in him, Ind in his generations, a Efd. iii.
7,
Lord, that art the God of the juft, thou haft
not appcmied repentance to the Juft.

To put one thing to another.

1

A'pPLiCAnLE. adj. [from a/ifly.] That
which may be applied) a* properly re-

to ppttry.

traafgreHiid,

-n APPLY'. V. a. [applico, Lat.]

thf one prcrtinf, tht other peiKtnrtion, which rt:^MiTv afpllcabittty,
t^th'

is tJpplkabte

f«ith !«' the inward applicattry, and if there

Tayl'jfi IVcrihj dmmumeent.

.The afli'>n of txM is compofed of two p»rts

perfon,

I

tain

them, that their fliips departed terribly torn.

Appo'intbr. h./.

Hajinard.
[fit)m appaint.]

He
that fettles or fixes any thing or place.
To
make ufe of as relative or fuitable to
3.
Appo'intment. n.J~. [appoimtemtnt Fr.]
fomething.
,

A'PPLICABLENESS. »./. [from efflicaFitnefs to be applied.
Tiie Jtnuwledge of falts may poflihly, by that
little part which we have already delivered of its
efifiuak.'€jiefi, be of ufe in natural philofopby. Bo^'le.
iJe.]

A'PPUICABLY. aJv.

[from applicable.^
In fuch a mauner as that it may be pro-

This brought the death of your father into remembrance, andl repeated the veries which 1 formerly applied to him.
DryJn't Fai/et.
4. To put to a certain ufe.
The profits thereof might be afptted towards the
fuppoi t of the year.

Thefc glorious beings

perly applied.

A'i'PLicATE. n.f. [from apply.'] A right
line drawn acrafs a curve, fo as to bii'e€l
Chambers.

the diameter thereof.

To 'fix the mind upon
to.

or petitioner.

7.

(hould fcem very extraordinary, tliat a patent
Aotitd be paflcd, upon the ap^hcat'nn of a poor,
private, obfcurc mech.mick.
Stv'tft.

4.

The employment of means for a certain
There is no flint which can be fet to the value or
merit of the facrificcd body of Chrift ; it hath no
mealurcd certainty of limits, bounds of efficacy
unio lite it knowcth none, but is alio itfclf infinite
IJcoktr.
in uo£lbllity of appticatkn.
If a right courfe be taken witli children, there
will not be much need of the applicalhn of the common rewards and puni/hmcnts.
Locke*
Intenfenefs of thought ; clofe ftudy.
1 have difcovered no orlier way to keep our,

5.

6. Attention to fome
with the particle to.

particular

To have reconrfe ttr, as a foliciior or
petitioner ; with to : as, \ applitil myfelf

To Appo'rtion. 'v.a. [from /er//V, Lat.]

fire-

:

She was (kilful in applying his humours

;

To aft upon

10.

;

2.

To fuit

;
to agree.
Would it opjiy well to the vehemency of your

vould enjcy ?

po^e for puzzle.

Shakejpeare.

Some procure themfelves to be furprifed at fuch
times as it is like the party that t^lty work upon,

To have recotirfc to, as a petitioner.

3. To attach by way of influence.

"to.

Rogers.

Tliat

To Appo'ikt. t. a. [appointer, Fr.]
1. To fix any thing, as to fettle the exaft
time for fome tranfaftion.

which .ipplies.
The direfliVc command for counfel is in the underflanding, and iheapplifath': command for put-

The time ap'pointe.i o^ ih& Father. Gelat. iv. 1.
2. To fettle any thing by compaft.
He faid, Appoint me thy wages, and I will pay

men reforms.

A'pPLicATivE. adj.

Re^eri.

\_irom apply. "l

<iAg in <x«cution it in the will.

Bramball agairjl Htiics.

'

it.

will

come upon them : and to

be found with a
fomewhat which they
end they may lie appcfed of thofe things which of tliemielvcs they ar«
letter in their hand, or doing

are not accuftomed ; to the

God knows every faculty and pafli)n, and in
what manner they cat) be moil fuccefsfuliy applied

and the familiarity of^wickcd
men more fuccefsfully debtucbet, than that of good

[from appor-

parts or portions, according as the land,

had no thaughti of »»/>^>i^-m^ to any but himfelf;
h-: deli red I would fpeak to others.
Siuift.

-y

n. /.

A dividing of a rent into two

whence it iffues, is divided among two
or more proprietors.
Chambers.
To Appo'se. 11. a. [appone, Lat.]
1. To put queflions to.
This word is not
now m ufe, except that, in fome fchools,
to put grammatical quelUons to a boy
is called to po/e him ; and we now ufe

I

the application.
This principle a^s with the greatcft force in the

tion.]

Sidnev.

to ply.

aflrClion, tlut I flioulJ win what you

Appo'rtionmf-nt.

nsvcr

hope to haften

to itlftirance.

1.

;

were apportioned, and they taught it.
South.
An otfice cannot be apportioned out like a common, and iharcd among diltincl proprierors. Cclliert

Sacred vows and myftic fong apply'd.

'

To grifly I'luto and Ws gloomy bride.
Pope.
an anti9. To bufy ; to keep at work
quated fenfe ; for which we now ufe ply.
fuft'ering fear to fall 10 dcfpair, nor

Bacon.

To thrfo it were ^od, that fome proper prayer

Milton.

plcafiires.

*

and which flowly ; and, by apportioning
th: time, take and leave that quality which you de-

The' in myfterious ternvs, judg'd as then btft.

His continued application to fuch ptibriclc affairs,
as may benctit his kingdoms, diverts him from

word appiicati<3it

Try the parts of the body, which of them ifl"u«
fpecdily,

God at laft
To Satan firft m fin his doom apply'd.

T'hat round about a cloud of duft did fly* Fairy ^.

as
7. Reference to fome cafe or pofiiion
,"
the Ilory was told, and'the hearers made

ficers.

To fet out in jull proportions.

To Apply', 'v. n.

r/M andwildora ofapcopie to prevent it.. Mdijcn.

5.

To addrefs to.

Whofe flying teet (b faft thiir way apply'd,

Adiiifon.
This crime certainly defcrre s fhe utmoft appiira-

Ai;d look on their endeavour.
Shakejpeare,
Here art thou in appointment frefh and fair.
Anticipating time with ftarting courage. Shakefp,

An allowance paid to any man, com.
monly ufed of allowances to publick of-

A varlct running towards hallily,

affair

Sbatefpeare,

They have put forth the haven t further on.
Where their appointment we may befl difcover,

to him for help.

thoughts clofe lo their bufinefs but, by fre<)uent attention and afpVuatiout getting llic habit of atten"
Locke.
tion and appHttuion.

have none fo near elfe.

Equipment ; furniture.

4.

ffatts.

8.

end.

Hooker,

Direftion; order.
That good fcUow,
If I command him, follows my appointmont
\
I will

Locke ufes aboutj lefs properly.

ceffion.

It

ourfeivcs.

3.

to ftudy : with

thinking, is the ideas that are there.
Locke.
It is a fign of a capacious mind, whi?n the mind
can apply itfclf fo fcvcral objects with a fwift fuc-

by which blood might

be llau/ched.
3. The a& of applying to any perfon, as a
iolicitor,

;

Apply thine heart *nto inftruftion, and thine;
ears to the words of knowledge.
Prm. xxiii. iz.
Ereryman iaconfcious to himfelf thathe thinks;
and that which his mind is applitd atevt, whilfl

ther; as, he mitigated hi-s paia by the
application of emollients.
2. The thing applied ; as, he invented a

in which two or more are concerned.
They had made an appomtntnt le^/cxixt, to come
to mourn with him, ami to comforthim. ^oi, ii. 11.
2. Decree; eltabliiTiment.
The ways of death be onlypn his hands, whu
alone hath power over all fleA, and unto whofe «^.
poirtment we ought with patience meekly to fubmit

Rogers.

aftcftions.

6.

Applica'tiom. n.f. \irova. apply
1. The aft of applying atiy thing to ano-

new

instruments in the

are

hands of God, who applies their fervices, and governs rfieir aSions, ana difpofcs even their w'Us and

.'\

application,

Clarendon.

To ufe as means to an end.

5.

Stipulation ; the aft of fixing fomething

1

Gemfis.

Now there was an appointed fign between the

A'ppMCATORY. <i<^". [from a^//v.] That' men of Ifrael and the liers in wait, yudget, xx. 38.
To eftablifli any thing by decree.
which comprehends the adl of applica- 3.
It wjs bi'f)rc the Lord, wliich chofe mc before
tion.
thy father, and before all his hiufe, to appoint mc
A'p PLICA TORY. a./. That which applies.
ruler over the people of the Lord.
2 Sam. vl. 1
There ate but two ways uf a^iplyin j the death cf
Unto hii»tbou gavcit commaDdmeot, which he
1

defirous to utter.

2.

Bacon,

A latinifm. To apply to.
By malign putrid vapours, the nutriment is rendered unapt uf being app.fed to the parts.
Harvey^

h'pTOSiTz.ailj. [appcjitus, Lat.] Proper ;
fit ; well adapted to time, place, or circumftances.
The duke's delivery of his mind was not fo
fharp, as fojid and grave, and afpofite to the timei
and occafions.
I^oiton,

Neither was Perkin, for his part, wanting to
himfelf, either in gracious and princely behaviour,
or in ready and appofile anfwers.

Remarkable
but

Bacon,

inftances of this kind have beeri ;

adminilier rcfleftions very apps/tte to
the defign of this prefcot Cslemnitj-.
Attirbury.
it

will

A'PPOSITELY.

•A

'A'pposir?i.Y. ae/'Tj. [from (?//«/?//.] Properly ;

fitly

2.

fuuably.

;

A P P

Opinion ; fentiments ; conceflion.

yeata, upon condiuon that the artificer,
or tradeiman, fhall, in the mean time,
endeavour to inllruft him in his art or
CciueU.
myftery.

we aim at right underftanding its true nature, we mull examine what afprehcufenmmWmi
It

We may affcfialy compare this difeafe, of a

make of it.

proper and improper coafumpcion, to a decaying

Dr^/y.

ffaney.

To be falfe, and to be thought falfe, is all one in

Wlien we come into a government, and fee tiiii
place of honour allotted to a murderer, another

refpeft of men who aft not according to truth, but

with an at'oeift or a blafphemer, may we not
and properly aflc. Whether there be any

The exprcflions of fcripture are commonly fuited
in thofe matters to the vulgar oppvtbfvjlons and
conceptions of the place and people where they were
delivered.
Locke.

Iicmfc.

tilled

.

virtue, fobrieqt, or religidn,

amongll fuch a peo-

ple ?

South.

A'pposiTEKESs. «./ [hom appojite.'] Fit-

3.

The faculty by which we conceive nev/

nefs ;

propriety ; fuitableiiefs.
Judgment is either concerning things to be
known, or of things done, of their congtuity, fit-

ideas, or power of conceiving them.
1 nam'd them as t'ney pafs'd, and underllood
Their n:rture, with fuch knowledge God indu'd

nefs, ri^htnefs, mfifticmj!.

Mv fudden tipfrthcnjlon.

llali'i Origin of Manl'md.

it

not by a vain furmife, but a true appreh':nfii.n of
fomcwhat which no man may think himfelf able
to withftand.
Hooker.
And he the future evil fhall no lefs
In apprehenfimj than in fubftance, feel.
Mihcn.
Th« apprebcnIloTt of what w?.s to come from an

may touch the firil mals.

Arhuibn-A en Diet.

unknown,

In grammar, the putting of two nouns
in the fame cafe ; as. Liber Sufannee matrs, the book of his mother Sufan.
roAPPRA'JSE.-i/.a. \appreder, Fr.] To
fet a price upon any thing, in order to
2.

5.

To f-.rcign pafTagcs, and in the end.
Having my freedom, boaft of nothing elft
But that 1 was a journeyman to grief
Sbukefp.
,^

Appre'nticesiiip.

to pafs under a mafter.
Jn every art, the iimpieft that is, there is an op'

7.

Clarendon.

So many and fo vaiiaus laws arc given.

Millar.

I.

;

cious', certainly we /iiould truli

to fear.
z.

The inhabitants of thii country, when I palTcd
through it, were extremely a^/iro!>f»/fi/« of feeing
Lomba'rdy the feat of w::r.
AddiJ-n.
They are not at all apprchtnfme of evils at a
didance, nor tormented with the fearful profpeft
of what may befal them hereafter.
7ilkijcn.

Apprekk'nobr. n.f. [irom apprehend.]
Conceivcr ; thinker.
Groii apfretfndiri may not think it anymore
t

an iha: a bullet ihould be mjved by the
Gkr.'vilU:

Apprfhe'nsible. aJj. [from apprehend.]
That which may be apprehended, or
conceived.

The nortli and fiuthem poles are incommunicable an-l fixed paints, wiiTeof the one is f ot aufrehtrfillc in the other.
BreminiVulgar E rmrs.

AppREHt'NSiON. »./. [npfreheii/w, Lat.]
i. The mere
contemplation of things,
without affirming or denying any thing

concerning them.

So we think of a

horfe, high, fwift, animal, time, matter,

mind, death, f:ff.
S.-.ip'e aiiiA'i; Tr^n

Vol. L

denotes no

''"<n i>{

>

'"''

Watts.

.

more than tjit

an objcil, without ci-

jldudtioB.

CUmille.

3.

We fuppi,le Ulyftcs approacbivg toward P.ilyHark
3.

l-en/i've.']

Appreh t'N'sivENKss. ».
henfive.]

/".

[fvom apprc-

The quality of being appre-

henfive.

WhTca^ the vowels are much more diffirplt to
be taught, you will And, by falling upon them laft,
gieat h<ip by ihc apf rebenji'veneft already gained in
Ir.'-tvnv the conf"n.mts.
Holder.

APPRE'NTICE. «./. [apprenti, Fr.] One
that is

bound by covenant to ferve ano-

ther <jian of trade, fgr a certiMU term of

hear tlie found of coaches.

Gjy,

To make a progrefs towards, in the fiHe fhall approaib unto me : for who is thii that
engaged his heart to approach unto me ?
yer. XXK. %i
To. have knowlecige in all the objedts of contemplation, is wliat the mind can hardly attain unto ;
the inl>anccs arc few of thofe who have, in any
mcafurc, approached towards it.
Locke.

4.

To come near, by natural affinity, or
refemblance ;

appre-

In an apprehenfive manner.

I

gurative fenfe, as mentally.

my tormentors, arm'd with deadly
Milltn,

!

The hour of attack afprf>ochfS.

ftingj,

Manjic my af.prelrnj!t;etcr\<\crc& parts.
Apprehe'nsivei.y. adv. [from

Br^omct

To draw near, as time.

2.

Perceptive feeling.
Thought',

the powers of the
Hhakejpeare*

phcme.

South.

Fearfult

the

To draw near locally.
'Tis time to look about:
kin^d.^m approtub apace*

t.-

epprihend tjie lUnej and, from my father's life,
»
the gout.
7im/./t.
^

rarifieu (ire.

1.

and rely upon the

repnrts of it.

part,

to give

To APPRO'ACH. -v. ft. [apprccier, Fr.]

Quick to underiland.
And gives encouragement to thofe who teach
fuch 0ppreb(njivt fcholan,
Hilder.
If confcience be naturaWy appreberfive and fjga-

Stillingfeet.

From my grandfather's death 1 had reafon

Bro^un'i yul^ar Errours.

their prey.

Apprehe'nsive. adj. [from apprehcHd.]

;

prevent his miHaking.
Cbeytte
But if apprix'd of the fevere attack.
The couhtry be Ihut up, lur'd by the fcent^
On church-yard drear (inhuman to relate)
The difappointed prowlers fall.
Tbon:fon»

or

butthis is not their leg,
but a ^irX oi apprebenfcn whereby they feize upon

The Firil Being is invilible and incorruptible,
and can only be affrclemUd by our minds.

To think on with terrour

catching,

[apprettdre ;

vice; he is well aj.prized, that the rcprefentation
of fome of thefe things may convince the underAanJing, and fotjw may terrify the confcience.
tVatH.
It is fit he be appriT^ed of a few things, that may

(ide longer th.in the other,

linker.

Among whom God will deign to dvsell on earth,

The power of feizing,

a.

To inform

knowledge of any thing.
He conliders the tendency of fuch a virtue or

A lobfter hath lh« chely or great claw of one

The good which is gotten by djing, caofetb not
aftionj unlefj, affrelxndittg ix. as good, we like
Vet this i ofprchtrJ not, why to thofe

appris, Fr.]

holding.

To conceive by the mind.
and dclire it.

To A?PRi'zE. f.

See that he be convcy'd unto the Tower :
And- g-> we brothers to the man that took lilm,
To queflion of his appreheKjUi;.
Shakcipeare,

2 Car. x'l. 32.
was named ;

It was the rabble, of which no body

and, which is mote Urangej.nat one affrihrnikd.

Skaiefp.

Seizure.

6.

one

ihould work.
Digby.
Many rulhed into the miniftry, as being the
only calling that they could profefs, without fcrving any r.pprenticejhip.
South*

hands, to two or three villages, that they fhould
fend proportions of corn into Balioghoufe.

The governor kept the city with a garrifon, defirouc to afpribttid me,

prenticeffAp neCefTary, before it can be expected

Sufpicion of fomething to happen, or
be done.
I'll note you in my book of memory,

That he might take away the upprebenfion, that
he meant fuddenly to depart, he fent out orders,
which he was fure ^^•ould come into the enemies

[from appren-

n.f.

The years which an apprentice is

tice.]

Clartndcn.
I

.

MuftJ not ferve a long apprenticehood

fuccefl'our to

And fcourge you f -r this afprehenfiin.

To feize in order for trial or punifh-

''

vitude.

Addi'^n,

jneiit.

f'

Pofe.

Appre'nticehood. n.f. [from apprentice.] The years of an apprentice's fer-

they need no comfort againll them.
Tillotf^n.
After the death of his nephew Cal'gula, Claudius was in no fmall apprebevjion for his own life.

There 13 nothing but hath a double handle, 6r at
leaft we have two hands to
tayhr.
affrthmi it.

ftrange,

unacknowledged

Clarendon.

To lay hold on.

4.

at leafl

As they have no apprehenfon of thefe things, lb

to take hold of.]

3.

Him portjon'd maids, /r/>)&n-nrirV orphans blelt.
The young who labour, ana the old who reft.

the crown, clouded much of that profperity.

fale.

Appr.a'iser. »./ l^Toxaappraife.'] A perfon appointed to fet a price upon things
to be fold.
To APPREHE'ND. 11. a. [appnhendo, Lat.

2.

To put out to a mailer as an apprentice.

It behoveth that the world /hnuld be held in awe,

Urme infpeiteJ with a mjcrofcopc, will difcover
a black fand ; wherever this fand fticks, it grows
ftill bigg' r, by the apprfuhn of new matter.

1.

To Appre'ntice. 'V. a. [from the noun.]

Milton.

Fear.

4.

Apposi'tio:*. ».yl [a/>/o/f//o, Lat.]
1. The addition of new matter, fo as that

Li>ve rnjoined fuch diligence, tliat no apprentice,
no, no bond flave, could ever be more ready than
that young princefs was.
Sidney,
He found him fuch an apprentice, as knew >veU
enough how to fet up for himfelf.
Gotten,
This rule fcts the painter at liberty; it teaches
him, that he ought not to be fubjeft himfelf fervilely, and be bound like an apprentice to the rules
DryditC t DuJT ejnoy
ofljisait.

South.

apprfhenfion.

af[ofiiely

\

A P P

P t>

as,

the cat aj>prcac/ja to

the tiger.

To Appro'ach.
I.

<v.

a.

To bring; near to.

This fenfe is rather
French than Englifh.
This they will nimbly perform, if objcfted to
the cxtreir.es i but llowly, and not at ail, if ap-

proached unto their roots. Brcwn^s Vulgar Frrei>r:,
By plunging paper Uioroughiy In weak i'pirit of
wine, and approacting it to a candle, the fpirituoVia
parts wUl btirii, without harming the paper. Jijyle,
Approach d, and looking uo^iucath the fun.
He law proud Aivitc.
Viydrn.

O

a.

To

•i.

To come near to.
He «« an jdmiraUe poet, tni thought e*en to
ItiKfle.

have affroacbej Homer.

ArPROACH. It./, [from the verb.]
1.

Things fanflified were thereSy In fJch fort 0pfnfriauJ unto God, as tiiat they might never afH'.'-hr.
terwards again be made common.
this
f;'0t of ground, this perfon,
have fe'lefled and iipt"-ol,ria:id, I have
enwiU
inclofedittomyfelfand myownule; and 1
dure no fiiarer, no rival, or companion init« Souib.

As

The »a of drawing near.

Accefs.
Honour hath in it the vantage ground to do good

Some

any men, is very apfrivable in what profcfSon foBrywns Vulgar Errsun*

A p p R o'v A L

»r.
[ from approve. ] Approbation a word rarely found.
There is a cenfor of jufticc and manners, with-

out wh>fe approval no capital fentcnccs are to be
Tcmp^,
executed.

Why (Iiould people engrofs and approprtaie the
common bcnefiu of fire, air, and water, to them-

perfon that approaches or draws near.

Thou gav'ft thine ears, like tapftcrs, that bid

fcripture ; and his fyllem, that has afpropriatiJ
them to the orthodoxy of his church, makes them

The aft of coming near.

Locke.
immediately irrefragable arguments.
We, by degrees, get ideas and names, and learn
their appropriated connexion one with another.

As for ice, it will not concrete but in the af-

himfelf pleafed or fati»fied.
That not part me, but
By learnel apfroiution of my judges.
8. The liking of any thing.

by formal confent, as in councils, or by fecret apfrtintion, as in curtoms, but ni.iy be taken away.
licykcr.

In law,

4.

alienate

a benefice.

name of yeomen of his guard ; and that it might
than
be thought to be rather a matter of dignity,
any matter of diffidence affrcfriate to his own cafe,
he made an ordinance not temporary, but to hold

3. Atteftation ; fupport.

Bac!.n.
in fucceiliou for ever.
The heathens themliilves had an apprelienfion of
neccllity of fome apfnfriatt afls of divine

How many now in health
Shall drop their blood in approbation

Appro'of. n. f, [horn approve, ^i proof
hompro've.] Approbation ; commend-

the
worlhip.

Ap p ROP R

probo, Lat.]

To like

to be pleafed with.
;
There can be nothing pofTib'.y evil which Ccd
epprovetbt and that he approvttb much more than
H'Mer,
he doth command.
What power was that, whereby Medea £aw.

I.

And well appr&v^d, and prais'd the better courfe,

When her rebellious fcnfe did fo withdraw
Her feeble powrs, that fhe purfu'd the worfe ?
Davietm

To exprefs liking.

z.

To prove

3-

The claim of any thing as peculiar.
He doth nothing but talk ot his liorle, and make

;

can
a great nfpropriation to his good piits, that he

-i.'.

3.

.>

That he approver the common iiar, F.ime,

Who fpeaks him thus at Rome.

Huctibras.

Appro'pri ABLE-.a-j). [from appropriate.]
That which may be appropriated that
which may be rearained tofomething
;

particular.
This conceit, applitd onto the original of man,
ar;d vhe beginning'of the wgrld, it more juftly afBntvn'i l^ulgir Erroun.
frcpriubU unto its end.

To APPRO'PRIATE. v. a. [approprier,
Fr. approprio, low Lat.]
I. To confign to feme particular afc or

Sbakefpeaie.

Refer all the adions of this fhort life to tliat
Hate which will never end ; and this will appro^ti
itlclf to be wifdom at the laft, whatever the world
TillotjTn.
judge of it now.
If.

Slakcffecrc.
him himfelf.
The fixing a particular fignification to

a word.
The name of faculty may, by an apfnfr'.ethn

Milic*.

Firft thy obedience.

To experience

:

not in ufe.

Oh 'tis the curfe in love, and iWWappm'd,
When women cannot love, where they're belov'd.
!

Shakefptari,
;.

th.it difguifes its true fenfc, palliate the abfurdity.

The clof.ed blood within my hofe.
That f.om my \v,>unded body flows,

to Ihew ; tojuftify.

of credit for ever after, in matters appcrt.nining
Hoiktr,
to the fcicnce he was Ikilful in.
Id religion.
What damned errour, but fome fober brow
Sbakifp,
Will blefs it, and approve it with a text

ftioj

Todrawnigh unto; to approach.

;

His meaning was not, that Archimedes could
fimplyin nothing be deceived ; but that he had in
fuch (oTl approval his Ikill, that he feemed worthy

Would'ft thou approve thy conrtancy ? approve

aff

Dic7.
To hallen to fet forward.
a. [appropinguo,
To Ap p no p 1' n (iu a t e.

-

looked upon as iiifolcnce for a roan to fet up
his own opinion againll that of fome learned doflor,
Locke*
or otherwife approved writer.
It is

The mind ftiould have diftinft ideas of the things,

2.

1'ly,mfon.

[approitver, Fr. ap-

I'm forry

and retain the particular name, with its peculiar
Lmke.
rofriation to that idea.
_

Shai'ff.

A ludicrous word.

They bri/k advance.

To Appro've. "v. a.

ticular purpofe.

That bear in them one and the felf-famc tongue

\_appropinjuo,

a't 10 N . H. /. [from appropri-

The application of fomething to a par-

1

O moil perilous mouths.

Lat.] To approach ; to draw near to.

StillirtgJIct.
1

ate.]

a word rightly derived, but old.

TcAppRo'peratk. -v. a. [appropero, Lzt.]

Soft'iiing the lead afprovame to bellow,
Their Colours burnifli, and, by hope infpir'd,

See

Appro-'priate. adj. [from the verb.]
Peculiar ; configned to fome particular
ufe or perfon ; belonging peculiarly.
He did inftitute a band of fifty archers, by the

ef a thing, is not properly the willing of that thing ;
Souib.
jet men do very commonly account i^ fo.

Oi" what your reverence (hall incite us to.
Shaktfftare.

been carried away with old wives' talLS from afproSpetijtrm
vance of his own rcafon.
Should fhe feem

Before Richard 11. it was lawful to afpnpriate
the whole fruits of a benefice to any abbey, the
houfe finding one to fcrve the cure; that king reAyliffe.
drelled that horrid evil.

The bare apfrobaUon of the worth and goodnefs

Eitliei of condemnation or afprcof

to

probation : a word not much ufed.
A man of his learning ih' uld not fo lightly have

Appropriation.

Sbakefp.

There is no politive law of men, whether received

to

;

annex by combination.
He need but be furniihed with verfes of facred

Appro'achment. n /. [from approach.]

Approba'tion. »./ [approiatio, La.i.]
1. The aft of approving, or expreffing

-f-^^f-

mankind.

fomething
3. To make peculiar to

Sbalrfptart.

pnatbment of the air, as we have made trial in
glafl'es of water, which will not cifily freeze.
Smm'i falgar Erreun.

Ap P Ro'v A N c E. ». / [from approve.] Ap-

VEJIravgc.
Every body clfe has an equal title to it ; and
therefore he cannot affrcfrhite, he cannot inclofe,
without the conl<!nt ot all his fellow commsners,
fclves ?

all

/

.

:

Milnn.

To all bcl'.eve.s.

Sbairff.

Appro'acher. »./ [^Irora approach.'] The

pexfen.

an exclufive right.

_

ever.

The fplrit of God, piomis'd alike and giv'n

To

WUh mortal crlfis doth portend
My days to apfn/'iiijur an end.

AePf-o'vAii.t. ac/J. [from apprai/e.] That
which merits approbation.
The folid reafon, or confirmed eiperlence, of

to take to him-

To thcmfelves a[>frofnarhg

AgaiiUl bclcagur'd hcav'n the giants move;

To ApPROPrNQUE. a-. «.

;

jiylife'tParfrg.

therefore ate called proprietors.

Altirbury.

To claim or exercife
felf by

Hills pil'd on hills, on mountains mountains lie.
make their mad affroachet to the (ky. DryA.

Lat.]

benefice.
Thefe apf^r.prialcrs, by reafon of their perpetuitic, are accounted owners of the fee fimple ; and

they affrofrialcH to the gods,

himfcU;
2.

3. Huftile advance.
For England his affnacba makes a> fierce

ation :

Appropri a'tor. n.J. Ifrom appropriate]
He thit is poiTeiTed of an appropriated

Rifcommon.
Marks of honour are epfr^fruiiM to the mathat he might be invited to reverence
giftrate,

the«^/r(»L-A to kings and principal perfons; and
Baccn.
the riifing of t man's own fortunes.

welcome,
To knaves and all apprcathcn.

1

void, the diocefcn and the patron, upoa
the king's licence, may conclude. Cmuell.

And fome to publick, Dme to private ends.

Shai. Mcrcb. afVmct.
be gljd of his affroach.
*i*is with our fouls
As with our eyes, that after a long darknifs
Are dizzied at th' affrttcb of fudden light. Dtnb.

As waters to the fucking of a gulph.
4. Means of advancing.

fot this

thing,

It I Muld bid the fcventh welcome with in good
« heart as 1 can bid the other five farewel, I (hould

2.

AP P

A P P

A P P

To make, or (how, to be worthy of approbation.

Locke.

The lirlt care and concern mud be to approve

In law, a fevering of a benefice ccclefialHcal to the proper and perpetual ufe
of fome religious houfe, or dean and

himfelf to God Ly righteoufnefs, holimfs, and puR-gfrs.

rity.

6.

It has c/ before the objeft, when it fig-

ch.aptcr, billioprlck, or college ; becaule,

nifies to be plea/eJ, but

as perfons ordinarily have no right of
fee fimple, thefe, by rcafon of their perpetuity, are accounted owners of the fee

out

fimple ;

and therefore are called pro-

To

an appropriation, after the
prietors.
licence obt.iincd of the king in chancery, the confent of the diocefan, patron, and incumbent, are neccfl'ary, if
the church be full : but if t!ic cimrch be

may be ufed svith-

a prepofition ; as,

I

approve your

^your

letter.
letter, or,
1 (hewed you a piece .if black and white ftufT,
juft feiit from the dyer; w' icli you were pifafcd
tJ approve of,

and be my cudomer for.

Appro'vement.

n. f.

Stoifi,

[from approve.]

Approbation ; liking.
It IS certain that at

the firft you were all of mjr

and that I did nothing without your ap.
lUypuard.
pmtmmt.
opini' n,

'

Arri^o VER.

APT

APR

In thefe figures the veft is gathered up before
them, like an apron, which you aiuft fuppofe filkd

AfPto'vtR.n./. [from affrivt.^

He that approves.
2. He that makes trial.
1.

with fruits.

Their dtfciplins,

Now mingW

with

tlieir

A Q^U

niak-

courages, will

/Udij'M.

A'pROs.n./. [in gunnery.] Apieceoflead
which covers the touch-hole of a great

known

A'pTiTUDE. n.f. [French.]

Vou have made good woi k,
Up<jn the voice of occupation, and
Tilt breath of garlick eaters.

Near to.

'I

Thii evinces its perfeft aptitude and fitnefs for
the end to which it was aimed, the plmting and

Wearing

noutilhing all true virtue among men.

Pecay of Pitty.

he cob;;r afrat'd, and the parfon gown'd.

apfides, plural. [i4.«.]
is applied, in aitronomy, to two points in the
orbits of planets, in which thry are at the greatell
and the lead dillance from the fun or earth. Tl:c
higher affii is more particularly denominated a.

Approach to any thing.
latitude of Capiicorn, or the winter

fdlftice, it had been a fpring ; for, untjthat pofition,

pheiion, or apogee ; the lower, perihelion, or pe-

had been in a mtdvilc point, and that of afcent
Brvwn'i Vulgar Errours,
or oppr^x'imat'i'.v.
The fiery region gains upon the inferi.mr elements ; a nccefl'ary confcquciit of the fuA^s gradual
apfrcximaihn towards the earth.
IhU's Origin of AlanJtird'

rigee.

Ciamlnri.
If bodies revolve in orbits that are pietty near
circles, and the effidis of thefe orbits be fiieJ,
then the centripetal forces of thofc bodies will be

it

degrees of their approximation Co the homan Ihapc.

reciprocally as the fquares of the diftances.

and nearer, to the quantity fought,
though perhaps without a poflibility of

An heftic fever is tlic innate heat kindled into a

intelligence how all near ibout them (land atteaed
as concerning the fame caufe.
Hoakcr.

deftrudlivc fire, through the tf^^yZ/Jrof falinefteam^.

Ilarvty.
In vowels, the palTage of the mouth is open and

without any appulje of an organ of fpeech to
another : but, in all confonants, there is an ofpuljg
of the organs.
Hcldir.
free,

[aprictr. Lit."]

ba(k in the fun.

of the fun; fun-ihine-

3.

£!ael;m<ire,

z.

n, /.

or inclinable to do otherwife than they do.

1

liable to.

Inclined to; led to ; difpofcd

Ho-jker.

Fitnefs ; fuitablenefs.

The nature of every law muft be judged of hy
the

which,

Di<S.

i^hjktfpeare I jls you likt it.

Men arc apt to think well of themfelver, and

2.

[Aprilis, hat. Avril, Fr.]

counted firft.
is

rcfrefentcd by a young

man in green,

with a garland of myrtle and hawthorn bnds ; in
one hand primrofcs and violets, in the other the fign
Taurus.
Peacham fin Draiuing.
Men are /ifril when they woo, fjctember when
they wed : Nla.ds arc May when they are maids,
but the Iky changes when thcv are wives*
Hbakij^ean' I yli y^u like it.

A'pp.o.v. n.f.

[A word of uncertain ety-

mology, but lupjKjfcd by foine to be
^contracted from affre one.] A cloth hung
ibeforc, to):eep the other d/efs clean.

Cixe us gold, g )od Timon haft tljcu more ?^
Hold up, you flui^
Your *j/r&«j mountant.
Hlfiitfbtare.

—^-^—

:

The nobility think fcom to go in leit!i»r aprins.
Hl^flirj'peare.^

How might we fee FalftafF, and not ourfci'.es be
Put on two leather jerkins and afrom,

u^n him ac Mn tabic

a's

drawers.
^ia'rrjptart.

motives of adlions.
Snvifi.
What we have always feeh to Le done in oi.e
manner, we are apt to imagine there was but that

»one way.
4.

Beniky.

_

Quicktit-fs 'of apprehenfioa ;

a;, an />// wit.
have a lif^rt as little apt as yours,

Biit yet a brain that leads

To better vantage.

my ufe 01 anger
Sbakrfpeare.

;. Qualified for.

to learn.

What (hpvjid be the itptn-fs of t>irds, in comp«->
rifon c^bealt'S] to imitati; Ijieech, may be enquired,.

Bacon. '
4.

Tendency; of things.
Some feeds of goodnefs ij^ve him a rolKh of fuch
reflexions, as hivo ai; stptnefi to improve the mind.
_^ddiJor.

Ap'tote. n.f. [of a and •btYis-k;.]

To ("uit ; to adapt.
We need a man that knows the fevcral graces
Of hiflory, and how to apt their places;
Where brevity, where fplendour, and where height,
Where fwectncfs is required, and where weight.
Ecn Jtrtjin,

a noua

which is not declined v.ifh cafes.

A'^A. n.f. [Latin.] A word fignifying
very much ufed in chyraical wri-

t.vatcr,

had a whils fcrvcd the kin:;
whereunto they were only apt.
Sidn.y.
All that were ftrong an4 apt for war, even them
die kiijg of Bakyjon brought captive to Babyl jn.
1 King!.
To Apt. 1/. a. [apto, Lat.]
'Ihofe brothers

in watj

'

readinef*

Ready; quick:
1

I .

DifpoCtion to any thing; of perfons.
The nobles receive fo to heart the banilhmcn.t
aptnefs to tak'^

3.

.

Nonis's Mifccll.

of that worthy Coriolanus, that they arc in a ripe
ill power from the people.
Sbakejp,

T.inplt.

n. /.

of things. tlvsrein prefcribcd, unto th*

be comtjiaiided or foibidden.

of their nation, of their course and llrcngtb.

One, who has not thefe lights, is a ftranger to
what he reads, and aft to put a wrong interpretation upon it.
Mdifon.
Even thofe who ate near the court, are apt to
dcdutt wrong confequences, by reafoning upon the

uyir.ejz

famo end.
Hoiktr.
There arc antecedent and independent aptncjfes
in things ; with refpcft to which, they are fit to

to.
;

.

3.

[from

The fourth month of the year, January

Addijoti.

gclifts.

Things natural, as long as they keep thofe forms
which give them their being, cannot polTibly be apt

You may make her yon love telieve it

A kind of wall-

Juftly ; pertinently.
irensus very apt/y remarks, that thofe nations,
who were not poiiell of the golpcls, had the fame
accounts of our Saviour, wiiich are in the Evan-

Readily ; acutely ; as, he learned his
bufinels very aptly.
A'pTNESS. n.f. [irom apt.]

Having a tendency to ;

I warrant, (he is aptcr to do, than confcfs (he does.

frujt.

tfii wait

In youth increafe them, and in age repair ?

were apt to have a foot or fmuttincfs upon thcii
leaves and fruits.
Tttrpit

To
Ditri.

A'pRicoT, or A'pricock.

fecn >

But what the oiafs nutritious does divide !

My vines and peaches on my beft fouth w.Jls

Apri'city. ft./, [africitas, LiLt.] Warmth

'

Sbakejpeare,

which they take in giving very large and particular

2.

Properly; with juil conqec^ion, or correfpondpnce ; fitly.
That part

What makes them aptiy to the limbs adhere,

nities, &c. Finally, apiir through a fingular delight

[afpul/us, Lat.]

of ftriking againft any thing.

ylfril

1.

Was aptly fitted, and naturally perform'd.

The afl

'A'pRil.

A'pTLV. adii. [from apt.]

Chcync.

ot their alfeflion ; apler through a natural inclination unto piety; apicr through fundry opportu-

ever arriving at it exaflly.

apricus, Lat. funny.]

what becomes them ; what tlieir native ftock iS,
and what it is fit for.
l,ocke.

This fo eminent induftry in making profelytes,
more of that lex than of the other, groweth ; for
th.it they are deemed npi^r to ferve as inftruments
in the caufe. ylpter they are through the eagerncfs

ftill,

0ecay of Piety.

Difpofition.

He that is about children, (hould (^udy their nJk
tures and aptitude;, what turna they ealily takf, «nd

Fit.

1.

2. In fcience, a continual approach nearer

To A'tKic ATI. 01. n.

C)r the future.

3.

APT. adj. [apttds, Lat.]

Crno^i Muf^um*

Appu'lse. »./

In an aborcion, the mother, beddes the fruftration of her hopes, ac^ires- an aptitude to mifcany

J'PSIS. n.f.

mate.^

Qii.idrupcds arc better placed according to the

Tendency.

2.

Pope.

Eryzun'i i'ulgar Errourj.
1

Vqxo the

Fitiicfs.

1

Sh.ihfprarf.

an apron.

quick coiiveiiwn, containing
abtroxhrate i'M^ohtioai unto animation.

1.

Bailey,

;

You and your afron-mcn, tliat ftood fo much

a

A P P R o X M a't ion. a. /. [ from approxi-

of houle and dignities to the greateit
advantage, in order to bring about the defired end.
in po/ition

;

AprRo'xiMATE, ai/J. [from aJ, to, and A'pRONED. a^'. [from
«/;«;;.]
Thcfe receive

To

To aptate a planet, is to ftrengthen the plann

A'pRON-M AN. «.yr [from «/rj/i and man.]
A man that wears an apron a workman a manual artiiicer.

Cc-u-e/l.

prcximus, near, Lat.]

JJatham's Ssp'-y,

make fit.

covers the belly.

:

appeal.

The king is melaneholy,

The fat fkin which ToA'pTATE. v. a, [apiattim, Lat.]

A'pRON of a goofe.

Sbahffcarc,
As iin;nd up >n the worlj.
Ir.iv, one that, confeffing
common
In
our
3.
felony of himfelf, appealeth or accufeth
another, one or more, to be guilty of the
fame and he is called fo, becaufe he
muft prove what he hath alleged in his

pare.'

Apted for any ill iaipicffiojjs.

^gun.

To thtir affrvaeri, they are poople fuch

In foms pondj, apted for it by nature, they become pikes.
tfalton^
2. To fit ; to qualify ; to difpofe ; to pre-

tings,

ASniA FORTIS. [Latin.] A corrofive Hqiior,

made by dillilling purified nitre

with calcined vitriol, or rcflificd oil of
vitriol in a llrmig heat the liquor, which.
rifcs in fumes red as blood, being colleftcd, is the fpirit of nitre, or aaiiafortis
which ferves as a menftruum for diffolving of filver, and all other metals, ex.
cept gold. iJut if fea fait, or fal am-.
:

O 2

muoLacHi

A'quiLlKE.

moniack, be added to ajua forlii, it
commences <iy«a rigia, and will then
Chambers.
dilfolve no metal but gold.
The diffilving oC filver in aqua fartit, and gold

His nofe was aquUint, his eyes were blue,

Aquo'sE. adj. [from aqua, Lat.] Watery

water, is prepared of cloves,
galangals, cubebs, mace, cardomums,
nutmegs, ginger, and fpirit of wine,
de.-ful

caufe it diffolves gold, the king of meIts eflential ingredient is coramoi^
tals.
fea fait, the only fait which will operate

underllood of what is otherwife called
brandy, or fpirit of wine, either fimple
or prepared with aromaticks. But fome

I will

Where wo, js are impofed arhltrariuifiy, diftorted
from their common ufe, the mind muft be led
.

As to the tunicks of the eye, mar.y things
might be taken notice of J the prodigious finenels

lame

In vain the Tyrian queen refi^ns her life
For the challe glory of a virtuous wife,
If lying bards may falfc amours rehearfe.
And blaft her name with arbitrary verfe. Waljb.
Their regal tyrants (hall with bluflies bide
Their little lufts of arbiirary pride,

of the aracbtiiides, the acute fenle of the retina,

Derham.
2. It

is

alfo a fine thin

tranfparent mem-

aqua, water.]
1. That which inhabits the water.
The vaft variety of worms found in animals, as

ARArCNEE. n.f. [French.] A term in

well terrelhial as aqaatkk, are taken into their
Ray on thiCrtathn.
bodies by meats and drinks.
Brutes may be confidercd as Either aerial, terAquauck are
rtftrial, equalkk, or amphibious.

thofe whofe conftant abode is upon the wamr. Locke.

Applied to plants, that which grows

fortification,

depending on the natural period
fuch as
of tim«, unto arbiirary calculations, and
Bnivn's Vulgar Errouri.
vary at pleafure.

afctibc ctfeiSs

which fometimes denotes a

Dia.

To A'rbitrate. 'v.a. [arbitror, Lat.]

[from aranea, hs-X.. a
cobweb.] Refembling a cobweb.
The curious arancous membrane of the eye conadj.

ftringeth and dilatethit, and fovarieth its

..»fc.-. .
in1 the
v)... water.

Flags, and fuch like aquatik!, arc bed dedroycd

M:rnmcr'! H-.iJhandry.

A'<y 4TILE. «<^.

That

Lat.]

[fly«i3/////,

Wt behold many milliTOs of tlie aquatile or
water frog in ditches and Handing plaftics.
Brr^vn^s l^ulg^ir Ernun.

Ara'tion. B./ [aratio, Lat.] The aft or
praftice of ploughing.

M. /. \aquA-duSiiis, Lat.]

A

conveyance m^de for carrying water
from one place to another ; made on
uneven ground, to prefervc the level of
the water, and convey it by a canal.
Some aquedi.^s are under ground, and
others above ii fupported by arches.
Among the remains of old Rome, the grandeur

That which contributes to tillage. Z>«».
A' R B a L s T H. /. [from anus, a bow, and
A
balij}.3, an engine to throw ilanes.]
I

William Brito, that the arcuFrench
bali;la, nr arbalift, wa. firrt (hewed to the
after
by our king Richard the firft, who was fiiortly
Camden.
fliin by a quarrel thereof.

fubmit.

He would put himfelf into the king's hands,
Bao^n.
and make him i.rbiier of tlic peace.

Hither the rills of water arc convcy'd
1

z.

lid

Blackmore.

A'qjJEOUs. adj. [from aqua, water, Lat.]
Watery.
The vehement fire rwjuifite to

its

fufion, forced

Watcriflinefs.

«.

/

[uquofitas,

One who has the power of decifion or
regulation ; a judge.
Next him, high arbiter,
Chance govi-rns all.

Ardfin.

His m.ijefty. In this great conjucfture, fcems

to

of the afbe generally allowe for the folc arbiter
Tim/ If.
fairs of Chriftendora.
I

the aqueous and fugitive moiilure.
Ray en lit Crtelhn.

A'<jjJF.ousNES5.

reported by

[Lat.]
parties, to
I. A judge appointed by the
'whofe determination they voluntarily

Adi'jiv.

In curious aqutiulti, by nature
To carry all the humour.

is

A'RBITER. n.f.

'of -tkE commonwealth (hews itfelf ch.cfly ir. trmplrs, highways, aquidu^i, walls, and bridges of th
city.

.

croifs-bow.
It

Lat.]

A'rbitrable. adj. [from arbitror, Lat.]
Arbitrary ; depending upon the will.

to determine.
;
This might have bc;n prevented, and made
whole,

focus.

Ar a'tory. adj. [from aro, Lat. to plough.]

which inhabits the water.

To decide

1 .

Derham.

by draining.

Prior,
_
Nor bear to fee their vafl.ils ty'd.
Depending on no rule ; capricious.
infccurity we
It may be perceived, with w'.iat
_

2.

branch, return, or gallery of a mine.

Ara'neous.

Glanvillt.

intJ mifprifion.

A' R B I T R A R Y adj. [arbitrarius, Lat. ]
Defpotick ; abfolute ; bound by no lawt
1
following the will without relbaint. It
is applied both to perfons and things.

from its refemblance to a cobweb.

brane, which, lying between thi: dura
and the pia mater, is fuppofed to inveft
the whole fubftance of the brain.
Chambers.

^Lvyay all

will and pleafure.

fpider, and i.l'^, form.]
fo called
1. One of the tunicks of the eye,

Chambers.

iVjrra.

Arbitra'riousi.y. ad'V. [from arhitrarious.'] Arbitrarily ; according to mere

ARACHNOI'DES. n.J. [from «e»X">' ^

rather truft a Fleming with my butter, an

A'ctUEDUCT.

Tbcfeare ftanding and irie.ealable truths, fuch
no piecatious exilicnce, or ari.r'^risxs dependence upon any will or uuderftanding whajfoas have

ever.

Irilhman with my aqua vita bottle, or a thief to
walk with my ambling gelding, than my wife
Sbakiffcare.
with herfelf.
Aqua'tick. adj, \aquaticus, Lat. from

2.

He gnvi-mcd arh'nranly, he WM expelled, and.

Dryitn.

appropriate the term brandy to what is
procured from wine, or the grape ; aqua-

Miltm.

Dryien.
came to the dcferved end of all tyrants.
Arbitra'rious. adj. \ixaxaarbitrarms.\
Lat.] Arbitrary; depending on the will.

Having but very little arable land, they are forced
countries.
to fetch all their corn from foreign
AdSjon,

I.ncke.

-

With no other rule tliin the will ; de-

"lis good for arable, a glebe that alks

It is commonly

to (tand or fall,

fpotically ; abfolutely.

Tough teams of oxen, and laborious talks.

of them, with fpirit of nitre, or
Chambers.
common aqua fortis.
He adds to his complex idea of gold, that of

fpirit

I

A'rbitrarily. ad-j. [from arbitrary.'\

MiUtn.

New reap'd.

mon fea fait, or fal ammoniack, or the

the

Stand fad

Free in thine own arhurament it (lands ;
Pcrfeft within, no outward aid require,
And all temptation to iranfgrefs rcpd.

His eyes he opcii'd, and beheld a field.
Part arable, and tilth ; whereon were fljeavcs

It is prepared by mixing com-

after

;

year of the reign of king George.
A'rable. rt<^'. [troma'ro, Lat. to plough.]
Fit for the plough ; fit for tillage ; produdlive of corn.

AS^A

to that drawn
manner from malt.

[from arbitror,
n. /.
Will ; determination ; choice.
This Ihould be written arbitrement.

A. R. anna regni ; that is, the year of the
reign: as, A. R. G. R. 20. Anno regni
Georgii regis -vigejimo, in the twentieth

digefted twenty-four hours, then diftilled.
REGALIS.
REGIA, ox
An acid water, fo called be[Latin.]

require

Lat.]

Dia.

nefs.

>

Sfetman.

Arbi'trament.

Diii.
having the qualities of water.
^Aq^oo'sity. n.J'. [from aquoje.'\ Wateri-

A^AMIRABILIS. [Latin.] The wok *'

-vita,

the laws or cuftoms of particular placet d

them.

Br>^r,.

aquiiixe nofe.

"

J^A-FITjE, [Lmw.]

Drjd.

Gryps fignifies fome kind of eag'e or vulture j
from whence the epithet gryfui lat an hooked or

the Italian lafidaries,

fixrdnefs or folubility in aijua rigia.

Lat. from
Refcmbling an eagle ;

[aquilinus,

Ruddy hit lips, and frefli and fair his hue.

of a fca or blui(h green. This ftone
feems to me to be the beryllus of Pliny.
Woodiuard.

on gold.

The ordinary revenue of a parfonig* 'u ui laoif
called the glebe } in tythe, a fet part of our goods
rendered to God ; in other offerings beRowcd upon
God by the people, cither in fuch arhiirabte proportion as theii own devotion rooveth them, or a»

when applied to the nofe, hooked.

is

A'^A

eid/.

aquila, an eagle.]

in aqua rtgia, and nolviccverja, would not be ditLuekt.
ficuit to know.

J^A MARINA, nf

A R B

A R B

A Q^U

With very cafy arguments of love.
Which now the manage of two kingdoms muft
Shakefftare,
With fearful bloody ilfue arbitrate,
2. To judge of.
Yet waerc an equal poife of hope and fear
Does arbitrate th' event, my nature is
That I incline to hope, ra;her than fear. Mdton.
A'rbitrate. v. n. To give judg-

To

ment.
ot Icn e,
1^ did arbitrate upon the feveral reports
but alfo
not like a drowfv judge, only hearing,
*'""*•
verdict.

directing thrir

A'rbitrariness. «./. [from arbitrary.]
Defpoticalnefs ; tyranny.

He tint by hanhncfs of naure, and arbilrarinef$
hke fcivanrs, i»
of commands, ufcs his children
lem/'l'.
what ihev mean by a tyrant.

.

ARBiTRA'rioN.n./ [from ar*/Vfor, Lat.]
The determination of a caufe by a judge
mutually agreed on by the parlies coatending.

Arbitra'tor. n.f. [from arbitrate.}
judge between party
I. An extraordinary
and party, chofen by their mutual confent.

Be a good foMier, or upright tru/lee,
Ai arbi^rat^r from corrupt, m I'rce.
gover uor ; a prefident.
z.

A"

C'"^-^^'-

Dryden.

1 bou jh

A R B

ARC

Though heiv'n be Aut,

Arbopr tine. »./

And h?av'n\ h'gh arliiraror fit fecure

weed ; which fee.
A'r Bu sc L E. «.j: [arbu/cula, Lat.]

In his own llicngth, tliis pUca may be cxpos'J.
Milton.

3.

He that has the power of prefcribing to

little

1*"^""', '" ''"'•^''=f'-y-trec, grows
T
Ireland,
it is difficult to be railed

conrideiatcs maftsrs of thcir own terms,
and arbiirann of a peace. jUJif^ 3„ tht Siau
-fthe War.

The determiner ; he that p«jts an end

\\\\ one day end it.

Out of a pfein tree ftock.

Sbakifpcari.

Arc. „./. [arcus.Lzl.]
1.

Skai4ptar,.

n. /.

to a mortal artitrcmati ;

tiaarbirit w th painted blofToms

Now hid, now feen,

1.

2.

A building open below and clofed
above, landing by the form of its

,

1 he royal

fquadron marches,
Ereft triumphal <,rri«.

Belonging to trees; conlHtuting a tree.

A

Or fea an J land?

A

covered with green

u Ihah fee mine orchard,
where, in an
-i-l "c a uft year",
pipyin of my

om

'

'

1 n^

ShakilLurc
.
.
•'"•'»l»0": thou, where c'ho.cc
'^"^ "Tf ft needs, whether to
wind
jund this arbtur, or direit
, ...Ij.ir.g ,vy where to
cim.b,
r

M-Jion.

}"" '"'i«''"'rb=yr, made.
A :y'y-^'\'
And
Jof frefl, „'n,ng
*

air the op'iwr gUde,

1

DrjJ.n.

IS

fand. Pofe.

Clarfrdon*

Archcha'nter.

of
ftoncs, that confidering the
rapid courfe of th<
deep dream that roars under
it, it may well take
p a.e among the wonders of the world.
iJnoci

offict

in Inch matters- as do belong
to
the episcopal funftion.
The law ftyles

him the bifhop's vicar, or vicegerent.

To form into arches.

Fine devices of arcLtng water
without fpilline
and making it rifc in leveral
forms of feathers
and drinking-glafTes, be pretty
things to look . n,
but nothing to health and
Iwccincr

-IRCH. aJj. [from x^-xp-, chief.],
I. Chief; 0/ the firil ciafs.

Baccin

IS Ijiriing

Skaifff.

Left negligence might foilt in ..bufes,
an archdtaccu was appointed to takeaccountof
their doings.
Carfiv's Suri'ty,

AxcHDE'ACOMRy. „.f, [oi-chidiaconattu
Lat.]
The office or jurifdidlion of ar>
It oweth lul jeflion to the m-tropolitan
of Can-,
terbury, asJ hath one only archdtaranry.

up

An heret-rk, an arcb one, Cranmer.
Slakcfp.
2. Wagg.fh ; mirthful; triflingly
milchicV0U5.

Ayliffe s Purergon.
'

archdeacon.

1 lie tyrannous and b,or,dy afl is done

Toe moft arcb deed of pitcois malTacre, j
1 hat ever yet this land was guilty of.

znA--

The chief chanter.
Archde'acon. «./ {archidiaconus,!^^^.^
One that fupplies the biftiop's place and-

Sbaktfptare.

•

n.f. [from arch

chanter.]

get through.

makes her bed at he^chcd over with fuch a curious pile

'I h'--re

Shakcfteare.

„

I h:s excellent man, from the time
of his promotion to the archbijhi,prkk, underwent the
envy
and malice of men who agreed in nothing
elfe.

«.

...
XI,
The proud river which

3.

;,./ [from arbor, a tree. 1

J

To cover with arches.
Gates or monarchs
Arc arcb'dCo high, that giants may

Be-

Mi/tcn.

_,.

Bmld on the wave, or arch beneath the

feet,

S«>n as they forth were come to
open fight
01 day-ff ring, and the fun.

The archbijhcprkk of Toledo, this is porpos'd,

The nations of the field and wood

2.

]

For no; beljowing on him, at his alking.

^bakijpcare.

..

1 .

arbcrifh
obferve to oe ionj in the begerting
his buds : b.t
the CO d feafons oeing pall, h,r
(hoot, them all ou'" " "'*•''=•
//»W. nr„/ Fcr.l}.

'

'Tis the cardinal

And merely to revciigi him oh the emperor.

to-night.

A
/oArch.
-v. a. [areuo,Lu.]
To build arches.

.T*

The nature of the mulberry, which the

1
'

archoifliop.

A chief: obfolete.

iWy worthy arcb and patron comes

SbZ?!',

trees his ftudy.

'

Arghei'shoprick. «. / [from archbijhip.y
The ftate or juriWiaion of an-

and the lich c.pe

The noble duke, my maftcr,

A RBORIST. „./. [arhriji^. Fr. from artor, a tree]
A naturalilt who maKe.

bo«,er ; a place
branches of trees.

T he archbipop was the known architcdl of this
"^* '"'"'-k.
Clarendon.

Dryden, Alhkn.

Sbak.Jfcare.

From [aj;;©..]

4.

cjcrefcence, r-r rather a Japerplant
bred 01 a ,if.
couj and fuprriuou. loop,
which the tree itfcif
cannot all.n.ulate.
£.<«,„•, r„/^^r Err.ur,

longing to a tree.
frim under Ihiiy arbtnui roof

Cia.imer is return'd witfi welcome,
Injlall'd lord archbijhcp of Canterlniry.
Shakefp.-

Hatii nature given them eyes
I o fee this vaulted arcb,

-

Careiv.

his fuffraganst

Ine Iky, or vault of heaven.

3.

with Rama in Paleftina.

A

Ubiik'fpeare.

_

.

con.] The chief place of profpeft,
or of
fignaL
yo" "»il win the top of the Cornilh arebl-racotf
Hainborough, which may for profpcil cimpaie

fhop.]
bidiop of the firll clafs, wholuperintends the condufi. of other bilhops-

!

«,.

Mdton.-

Archbi'shop. n.f. [from arch and bi~

work';.
Ne'er through an arcb lo hurried the
blown tide,
As the recomtorted through the gates.
Shairjp.
Let Rome 11, Tiber melt, and the
wide arci
Of the ms'd empire fall here is my fpace.

Arbo'reous. a.'ij. [arbureiis, Lat.]

A R EOROus. aJj. [from arbor, Lat.

Is

curve, ufed for bridges and other

Miltcn.

with him the cohort bright

Archbjj'acon. n.f. [from arch and bea-

own

Among thick woven arhartti, and flow'rs

;

Ol warchi'ul cherubim.

th^n the whole ,circle, as clearly as
it does tliIdea of a circle.

Fairj S^uun.

They fpeak properly, who make it an

For Iwift defccnt

lefs

died,

from thofe that grow on the ground.

Narris,

name of a plant, called ailb Dead nettle.

Part of a circle, not more
than the

The mind perceives, that an arch of a circle

A

term in botany, to diilingaifh
fuch
fungufes or mo/res as grow upon
trees,

Of God's that will be heard by all.

Archa'ngel. n.f. \lamium, Lat.] Thfr
Belonging to archangels.
He ce is'd, and the arcbangil'ick pow'r prepar'd

half.

Be/)/^

A grain of mufljrd ice ,mes arbmrj!. Er.^vr..

Mi/tcn^

Tis lure th' archangel's trump I hear,

Latin word, fignifying a fecret.

Bacon.

Imbroider'd on each bank.

than arriian^f/ ruin'd, and the excefs

Nature's great palTing-bcU, the only call

ARCH. «./ [«%«/, Lat.J

And fmelling fweet, but there it might be found.
To bud out fair, and her Iweet fme;ls throw ali
around.

l.cfs

Of glory obfcur-d.

JRCa'NUM. n.f. i„ the fluraUtCMH.A Archance'lick. adj. [from archaiigel.\

Conipromife.

fmall tree or (hrub.

Hii form had yet not loft

arch ; a walk arched over.
Or call the winds ;hrough long arcadt,
to roar,
Prouj tj catch coM at a Venetian door.
P,p,

Lukewarm p^:rl -ns think they may accommodate p«r ts of religion by middle
ways, and «itfy
rccorcilcments ; as if they would make
an arbi-

longing to a tree.

a vbwet

Archa'ngel. n.f. [archangelut, Lu.1
One of the higheft order oi angels.

part, ex-

Arca de. » /. [French.] A continued

Uayward.

A'RaoRET. a. f. {arbor, Lat. a tree.]

«?X''] i
pro-

is

as archdeacon ; before
like k, as archangel,

part of a circle; not
;
more thart a femicircle.

Load lome vain church with old theatrick
ftate.
Turn arrj of triumph to a garden-gate.
J^op^.

Shjhfb.
Aid was granted, and the quarrel brought
to the
arl.:„faM of the fwjrd.

A'rborary. adj. [artorariui, Lat.]

It

cheefe,

a

An arch.

2.

Sbattfpeare.

man.

arcbiijhop.

nounced varioally with regard to the cL,.
which before a conlbnant found as in

All its original b.Ightnefs, nor appear'd-

Muft keep al jof from ftriil arbhrcmer.t.

trtment between God and

A fegment

ceeded not the tiurd part of a circle.

but nothing of the cir

We of the offending fije

archangel,

as,

Mafs yirril.
^

Their fcgments, or arcs, for the moft

[from arbitror,

cumftance more.

>

of the firft clafs [from H^x^' or

Are oft ingrafted ; and good apples
g,ow

hence.

Lat.]
1. Decifion ; determination.
I known tiie knght is inccnfcJ
againft ynu, ever

N>,
"';'

Siuip.

Arch, in compofition, fignifies chief, or

hedges.

Arbi'trement.

.

Eugenio fet out from the unive (i
y j he h;id
the reputation of an arcb lad at I'choul.

in

,

The end crowns a!l
And that old common arbitrator, time,

A'r bou

Charles 1.

common

Mortimer's Hujbandry.
,
„
„.
Kough
arJa/f flips into a hazel bough

Ju!l dea-h, kind umpire of man's mifeie?,
With fweet enlargement doth difmifs me

2.

as, the arc/j rogue ; unlels it be derived.
from Jrc/yy, the name of the jciler to>

from th.- feeds

Bu: now the arbhralor nf defpairs,

1.

Any
£,^J

but may be propagated by layers.
It grows to j
goodly tree, endures our climate,
imlels the weather be very fevere, and makes
beautiful

to any afFair.

2.

gained, by being frequently applied 1*
the boy moft remarkable for hii ptaun;.

'^

fhrub.

A'rbute. »./ [arbutus, Lat.]

others without limit or coiitroul
An ther Blenheim or Ramiilics wi!i make the

4.

A-k C

Afpccies of bind-

This fignification it fteais to have

Carczu's Survey.

.-iRCHDE'ACON-SHtP. n.f.
deaccn.]

[froiH

arch-

The office of an archdcaon.

Archdu'k,e.»._/: laichidux:.h:a.\ A title
given-

ARC

ARC

ARC

'given to fotue fovereign prince's, as of
.»\allria and Tufcany.

And Tall in painting dotl beftn*
Upon thy ancient arms, the gaudy heavenly bow.

during hia vrijajc
.from Uie NctherUni^ touvjijs Sjf-iin, wi^ v.calUertiiiveii lilto Weymouth.
Cart'iv^i Snrt-y.
J'niiip

aiib4ukt

<il'

Aurtil.1,

Ao.H Dv'cHKSs. n. f,

[from arch

A'rch t»-couRT. n.f.
ccurt."]

daughter of the arcliJuke 4)f Autlria, or
to the wife of an archduke of I'ufcany.

Aroh-tjiii.o'jophfr. n. f. [from arch
.and.fi.'io/cfier.]
Cllief philofopher.
It is no iinprobjble opinion therrlnre, w'-.idi the
^arcb-^bUojef h<r v^ai off that the chtcfeft ptrfjn in
every houlehjld vti> tlwavs
it wcr; a.king.

a

Hcker.

.AtkCH-PRE'LATE. ti. f.

[froin

arch and

Chief prelate.

prelate. ]

May wc not w nJcr, tint a man of St. BjCiI's
authority and quality^ ^niarcb-f relate in the hr^ufc

of God, fhouU have bis name tar and wide cillcd
In qucAion ?

Hcckir.

Arch-pre'sbvter. «./ [from arch and
/re/iyier.]

Chief pre/by ter.

ters, According to the canon law ;

To arc a'fo prel'bytcrs and anb-frijiyttn in fubjeiJlion tJ thefc
archdiacons.
jlylifft's Parirgan.

priefi.'\

». /.

Titc word dccanus was extended, to an ecc!efiwhich included the arch-prhjii.

allical dignity,

Ayltffe'i Parergofi.

Arch aio'locy. n./. [from tifj^ai©'., anand x<;-/&-, a difcourfe.]

cient,

courfe on antiquity.
aioi.o'gi cK. atf/.

Arch

A dif-

[from archaic-

Relating to a diicourfe on anti-

logy.'\

fubilitute

means

nary, and extends through the whole
province of Canterbury : fo that, upon
any appeal, he forthwith, and without
any further examination of the caufe,
fends out his citation to the party appealed, and his inhibition to the judge
from whom the appeal is made. Coxvell.
A'rch ETYPE. a. /. [archciypnm, Lat.]
The original of which any refemblance

quity.

I fhjiil

Sbahjjieare.

Let the arched knife,
•Well flwrpen'd, now aiVail the fpreadlng Aides

Of vegetables.

images themfelves by fimple

If^attf,

xn:>nd ; thou hail the right ari-i.i/ bent of the brow.

fhilifs.

.L.it.

a bow.]

Arche'typal.

they Ihould apprehend their

a.-f/.

[archcfyfus,

Lat.]

Original ; being a pattern from which

he that carries a bow in battle.
Draw, arcbtr\j draw your arrows to the head.

'I hroiigh

contempt iticn's opticks I have fecn

Him who is fairer tlian the fons of men
The f^urce of good, the V'ghi arcbetypai.

Shakcjpeiiri.

Ncrrh.

ARCHKUS. n.f. [probably from i^x^-l
A word by which Paracelfus feems to

^'b.ikijjitare.

have meant a power that prefides over
the animal cccononiy, diftinft from the

Thou frequent hring'ft the fmitten deer
Prhr.

.For feldom, itrchtn fay, thy arrows err.

feems

it

copies are made.

"boiV.;

Jhall be ours, for wc^src the o/ily love-gods.

yet

ClanviiWs Scepji:,
As a [iian, a tree, arc the outward objefts of
our perception, anJ the outward anbetypci or patterns of our ideas ; fo our fcnfations of hunger,
cold, arc aifo inward archetypn or patterns of our
But the notions or pi^ures of thcfe things,
ideas.
as they a^e in the mind, are the idea.
IVatii's Ligki.

He that (hoots with a

This Cupid is no longer an archtr ; his glory

how

I'er.fe,

art h^tyfes.

A'«CHER. n.f. [archer, Fr. from arcus,

rational foul.

i'xcHERY. n. f. [(roxa. arch&i-,'\
The ufc of the bow.
jt

Arch D a'con A L. adj. [from archidiaI

I

.

Lat. an archdeacon.] Belonging
an archdeacon ; as, this offence is
liable to be ccnfured in an arcbidiaconal

Ammj the Englfli artillery,ai-fi<r;j: challengeth

cor.us,

the pre-emin;nce, as peculiar to our nation.

to

Cantiiifj.

#.

Tiie aft of (hooting with the bow.
Flower of this purple dye,
Hit with t'upiJ's arcbtrf.
Sink in apple nf his eyr

vifitation.

Arch EPi's COPAL, adj. [horn archiepifcoI

.

The art of an archer.
Bli-il

an archbi(\iop ;

Belonging to
as, Canterbury is an ar-

chiepij'copat {ce ;

the (ufFragans are fub-

piis,

Lat. an archbilliop.]

!

i.baleff!Arc'i Midf. Nigbt'i Drtfm.

3

jail to arfZi»>///(-o/«/ jurildiftion.

feraphims (hall leave th-ir quire,

And turn love's foldiers upm thee,

A'RCHITECT. r.f. [architeaus. Lit.]

To »i-rcife their arcbtrj, C'ufiiaui'i Hiefs loTtmfk.

1.

S»y from what golden quivers of the Jky
S vjftnc'5 and p /.ver by birth a-c thine.
'T'l- 1 biMicve tills ar.bcry to flicw,

"Tbat St> much cjll

m colours thou

A profeffor of the art of building.
The arcbiitfl'i glory confifts in the dcfignment
and idea of the work ; his ambition Ihould be to
make the form triumph over the matter. iV-iU'/it,

Do all thy wing'-i ar«i>w» tiy ?
2.

to g've occaiion to de-

and h :p;^y a mixture.

flcilful

A R c H T e'c t u r e «.
1

Boyle,

[architei3ura,LAl.l
The art or fcience of building.
I

.

Arch'nefiure
called

by

is

/."

divided into

civil

mcbiteHare,

way of eminence arcbiteflure ;

military

and naval arcbitu-^
turey which, befides building of ihips and vefTcis,
includes alio ports, moles, Hocks, ^c,
Chambtru
Our fathers next in arcbircfture rttiird.
Cities for ufe, and forts for fafeiy build :
Then palaces and lofty domes arofe,
Thcfe for devotion, and for pleafure thofe.

arcbiteSture, or fortilication ;

Blackmirre,

Our fouls, though they might have perceived
inconceivable,

never ufc arcbaifm^, like Milt->n.

t^'f-CHto. participial adj. [from To arch.]
Bent in the form of an arch.
1 Tec how thine eye would emulate the dia-

is

mand what proportion of the t;ia prima afforded
this architifl^nkk fpirit," and what agent made to

made.

is

A'rchaism. n. f. [a{;^;a>5'//05.^ An ancient phrafe, or mode of expreflion.

this elaborate ilrudlure,

court ; and by that
names became confounded.

in his

the

o fay that fome more fine part of either, or
the hypoftaiical principle, is the architeft of

'1

all

The jurifdiflion of this judge is ordi-

[from arcb and

Chief prieii.

In hesv'n, by many a tow'icd ft.-udure h'gh.
Where fcepter'd angcli held their rc/idcnce,
And fat as princes.
Afu'l.it.
3. The contriver or former of aiiy compound body.

arches, becaule the olficial to the archbilbnp, the dean of the arches, was his

Ai fimpte deacons arc in luijjcClion to prefby-

Arch-pri'est.

and

-Admiring enterd, and t!ie «o.k feme p>»f!^.
And f imc the artbitfB : his baud was known

fiftof y that belongs to the archbilhop of
Canterbury, for the debating of fpiritual caufes, fo called from Bo*v-church
I'his ir^.cnvvSnlencte Ac iWine. arcbiteB of the
in London, where it is kept, whofe top
body obviaceJ.
Kay <m lie Creaikn.
is raifci of (lone pillars, built archivi/e.
4. The contriver of any thing.
An irreligious Moor,
The judge of this court is termed the
Chief arcbiirfl and plotter of th'fe woes. Skejiefp,
dean of the arches, or ofHcial of the
arches-court : dean of the arches, bccaufe Archite'ctive. adj. [from archiieJl,"\
That performs the works of architeilure.
with this ofiice is commonly joined a
How could the bodies of many of tiiem, parpeculiar jurifdidlion of thirteen parilhes
ticularly the la{l meationcd, be furoiOied with
in London, termed a deanery, being
arcb'nt^'ive materials ?
Derb. Pb)Jicu'7be'-l'>^,
exempted from the authority of the bi- Arch iTEcro'Ni«K. adj. [from a^;^®-,
fliop of London, and belonging to the
chief, and Ti'xrii, an artificer.]
That
archbifnop of Canterbury ; of which
which has the po>ver or (kill of an arthe parifli of Bow is one.
Some others
chiieft ; that which can build or form
fay, th.it he was (irft called dean of the
any thing.

iind

A title glvsn to the fifler or

iiud'efs.^

[(rotn archei

The chief and mort ancient con-

The haSy ma'.titu!:

A contriver of a building

;

a builder.

2.

The efFeft or performance of tlie fcience
of building.
The foimacion of the firft earth being a piece
of divine architcnitre, afcribed to a particular proBurnet's Theory.

vidence.

A'rchitrave. n.f. [from asyyi, chief,
and trabs, Lat. a beam
becaufe it is
fuppofed toreprefent the principal beam
;

timber buildings.] That part of a
column, or order of a column, which
lies immediately upon the capital, and
is the loweft member of the entablature.
This member is different in the differin

ent orders ; and, in building architrave
doors and windows, the workman frequently follows his own fancy.
The
is fometimes called the reafon piece, or mailer beam, in timber
buildings, as porticos, cloyfters, toV. In

arcbitra've

chimaies it is called the mantle-piece ;
and over jambs of doors, and lintels o£
Builder's Dici.
windows, hyperthyron.

The materials laid over this pillar were of
wood ; tlirough the lightnefs whereof the ardiitrave<a^\i mtfuH'cr, nor the column itfcif, bi'ing
H'otton's Archit(Surt%
fo fub:i.intial.
Wjftward a pompous front fpiece appcar"d,

On Dorick pidars of white marble rearM,
Cr own'd with an architrave of antique mold,

And fculptuie rifing on the roughen'd gold. Pcfe,

A'rchives. n.f. 'without ajingalar. [arehinja, Lat.]
The places where records
or ancient writings are kept. It is perhaps fometimes ufed for the writings
themfelves.
Though we think our words vanifh with the
breath that utters them, ys: they become records
in

\

ARE

A R D
!n

Cod's court, and are Ijid up in hU arch'i'Ots, as

witncffes cither for or againft us.

A'RDENT. adj. [ardem, Lat. burning.]
Chymifts obferve, that vegetables, as lavender,
marjoram, (gc. diftilled before fermentation,
yield o!!3 without any burning fpirits ; but, after
fcrmcnration, yield ardent fpirits without oib
;
which (hews, that their oil is, by fern.entation,

In the form of an arch.

converted into fpirit.

.-i!afon

2.

ot the ileeple or

clochier thereof, railed at tlie top with ftone pillars, in faOiion of a bow

Arci'tenent.

adj.

Dicl.

Arcta'tion. n.f. [frora/jr5a,tollraiten.]
Straitening ; confinement to a narrower compafs.
A'rctick. }i./. [from a^-x!®-, the northern conflellation.] Northern ; lying unSee Artick.
der the Arftos, or bear.
Evcr-during fi.o^\s, perpetual fhades

Of darkncfs would congeal their livid btood.
Did not the ar^kk tradl fpontaneous yield

A cheering f^urple berry big \vith-v/ine. Phu'ifyi^
A'rctick Circle. The circle at which the
northern frigid zone begins.
A'rcu.ate. at/J. [anuatus, Lut.'l Bent in
the form of an arch.
vifible,

is,

that

for

To blazon broad.

1.

Bav:k to th' infernal pit 1 drag thee cha'.n'd.
Paradife Lop.

Arefa'ction. «. f. [arefacio, Lat. to
the
dry.] The ftate of growing dry
;

aft of drying.
From them, and their motions, principally proceed arefaUhn, and moft of the cffefls of nature.
Bacon.

To A'refy. <v. a.

2.

Heat of

afFeflion ;

love,

as,

to exhauft of moifture.
;
Heat dricth bodies that do cafily expire, as
parchment, leaves, roots, clay, ^c. and fj dotll
time or a^e arefy, as in the lame b -dies, ^c.
Bacon's Natural Hifioryi

Arena'ceous. ai^j.

defire,

A

p'ece of the ilonu of the fame mines, of a
yellowiih brown colour, an arenaceous f.iabic fub-

The idiers fliout around with gen'rous rage;
He prais'd their ardour, inly pleas'd to fee
1

iiance, and with fome white fpar mix^d with it.

Drydeti,

Unmov'd the mind of Ithacut remain'd.

And the v^in ardours of our love rfflrain'd. Pope.
3. The perfon ardent or bright.
This is
only ufed by Milton.

JVo:dloard on FojJ'ils.

-Aren a'tion'. n.f. [fiom areng, Lat.
fand.] Is ufed by fome phyficians for
a fort of dry bath, when the patient fits
with his feet upon hot fand.

Nor delayed the winged faint,
After his charge receiv'd ; but from among
Thoufand celellial ardours, where he flood
Veil'd with his gorgeous wings, up-fpringing light.
Flew thro' the raiJlt of heav n.
Faradij'e Lcfi.

Arcua'tion. n.f. [from arcuate."]
1. The aft of bending any thing
incur;

Ardu'ity. n.f. [from arduous.] Height;

The ftate of being bent ; curvity, or

difficulty. '-

£)ia.

dy ;

fand.]

adj.

[from

Dit^.
LaC.
gravelly.

arentila,

Full of fmall fand ;

Areo'tick. a^'. [il^-aioTixa.] Attenuents,
applied to medicines that diffolve vilcimorbifick matter may

Lofty ; hard to climb.

dities, fo that the

High oi\ I'arnalTus' tip her fons (he Ihow'd,

be carried off
perfpi ration.

Pote.

Chambers.

full of fand.

Ahe'nulous.

And pointed out thofc arduous paths they trod.
2.

Z)/>7.

AaENo'sE. ai(/. [from «)-fna, Lat.] San-

A'RDUOUS. adj. [arduus, Lat.]
1 .

[arena, Lat. fand.]

Sandy ; having the qualities of fand.

courage.

His hoft.

[arefacio, Lat. to dry.]

To dry

Heat.
Joy, like a ray of the fun, leflcfts with a greater
and quicknefs, when it rebounds upon a
man from the brcaft of his friend.
Smith.

Dia.

crookednefs.
3. [In gardening.] The method of raifing
by layers fuch trees as cannot be railed
from feed, or that bear no feed, as the
elm, lime, alder, willow ; and is fo
called from bending down to the ground
the branches which fpring from the offfets 01 ftools after they are planted.

:

ardfiur

the

vation.

Fairy Slueen,

But mark what I arcad thee now avant.
Fly thither whence thou llfd'ft If from this houf
Within thefe hallow'd limits thou appear,

;

!

A'rcuatile. ai(j. [from arcuale.'\ Bent;

2.

Knights and ladies g^^ntle deeds,

Drydsn,

enccuntcr'ai:d dillurb the one the other.

infleded.

[apebati.

Whofe praifes having (leiit in liience long.
Me, all too meanc, the facrcd mufe arecds

:

worketh in right lines j but founds, that
move in obiiejue and arcuate linesy mull needs

Ray en the Creatkn,

a.

'v.

Sax. to counfel.] To advife ; to direcl.

Nctitcn^s Optichs.

afFeftionate
ufed gene3. Paflionate ;
rally of defire.
Another nymph with fatal pow'r may rife,
To damp the finking beams of C2e.ii's eyes
With haughty pride may hear her charms confeft.
And fcorn the ardent vows that I have blelt. Prior.
A'RDENTLr. adt\ [from ardent.] Eagerly ; afFeftionatt^y.
With true zeal may our hearts be mod arder.tly
inflamed to our religion.
Sj^rait's Sermms.
A'rdour. n.f. [«r</or, Lat. heat.]

ii^hc

Bacon' i Natural Jiijlory,
In the gu'let, where it perforateth the midriti,
the carncous iibrcs ate infle^ed and arcuate,

Pope.

To Are'ad, or Are'ed.

With flalhing flames his ardtnl eyes were fill'd.

The caufe of the confuHon in founds, and the
inccnfjfion of fpecics

In areas varv'd \\ith Mofaick art,

Fierce ; vehement ; having the appearance or quality of fire.
High on a cnle-black deed purfucd the chacc

AyU^il Parsrgor..
[arcitencr.s, Lat.]

It,

Some whiil the di(k, and fome the javlin dart.

A knight of fwarthy face

bent arciivijs,

Bow- bearing.

reafon of the high mountains that encompafs
looks like the area of fome vaft amphitheatre.

fiery.

rue,

A'rchwise. aJv. [from arch and 'wije.'\
or fiom Bow-church, by

Hot ; burning ;

1.

Gwtrn:nenf of the 'Torgue,
I (hall now only look a little into the Mrlaic
arcbi-ves, to obleivi: whit they furniih us with upJVaiiiicarJ
on this fubjefl,

The court of arches, lo called ah arcmita ecckjia,

A R G

by fweat, or

infenfible-

Di^.

Areto'logy. n.f. [from i-^irt), virtue,

Difficult.
It was a means to bring bim up in the fchool
of arts and policy, and fo to fit him for that
great and arduous employment that God deflgned

difcourfe.] 'I'hat part of
moral philofophy which treats of virtue,
its nature, and the means of arriving at

him to.

it.

and Myu, to

South.

Diol.

A'rcuature. n.f. [arcuatura, low Lat.] A'rduousness. a. f. [from arduous.] A'rgal. n.f. Hard lees flicking to the
fides of wine-veflels, more commonly
Height dilEculty.
The bending or curvature of an arch.
called tartar.
Di^.
Dic7. Are. The third perfon plural of the prefent teiife of the verb to be
A'rgent. adj. [from argenturn, Lat.
as, young
Arcuba'lister. «./ [from arcus,a bow,
men are rafh, old are cautious.
fiiver.]
and balijla, an engine.] A crofsbowARE, or Jlamire. The lov/eft note but 1. The white colour ufed in the coats of
man.
;

;

one in Guido's fcale of mufick.
Gamut I am, the ground of all accord,

King John was efpied by a very good arcuLawhj faid, that he would foon difpatch the

lijler,

tru«l tyrant.
Cod fuilid, vile varlet, quoth the
carl, tint we Ihould procure tl>e d-ath of the h«ly

one of GcJ.

Ard. [Sa.xon.]

.Are to plead Hortenfio's paflinn
;

B ml Hianca take him for thy lord,
C faut, that loves with all afFeiSion.

CamJen'i Rtmain-..

Signifies natural difpofi-

tion ; as, GodJarJ, is a divine temper ;

Rtinard, a fiiicere temper ; Ciffard, a
b3untifal and liberal difpofition ; Bernard, filial aiTeition.
Gibjln'i Camden.
A'rdenc Y. «.yi [from rtrfli'«/.] Ardour;

warmth of afFeftion.
Accepted ojr prayer* (hall be, if qualified with
humility, and ardrvcy, and perfcvcrancc, fo far as
converns the end immediate to them.
eagernefs ;

llan:mtiid'i Pratl. Catechifm.
TJie inefl'able happincfj of our dear Redeemer
needs bring an incrfafeto nuts, c:;mr«ien

n-.'ift

filiate to (lie aynticj of bur k)vc for him.

£ayie. )

gentlemen, knights, and baronetc, fuppofed to be the reprefentation of that
metal.
RinaUo flings
As f-.vift as fiery lightning kindled new,

A'rea.
1.

n.f. [Latin.]
furface contained

The

Shakeff.

between

flis argent eagle, with her fllver wings
In lield of azure, fair Erminia knew.
Fairfax.
In an argent fit'ld, the g^d of war
Was drawn triumphant on his iron car. Drydctr,

any

lines or boundaries.

The area of a triangle is found by knowing the
height and the bafe.
y/aiis's Logkk.
2.

Any open

the fioor of a
room the open part of a church ; the
vacant part or llagc; of an amphitheatre.
An inclofeJ place, as fills, or a bowlingfurface,

as,

;

green, or gral's-plot.
J-et us conceivi! a floor or area of goodly length,

with the breadth lomcwhat
longitude.

ra-jre

than half the
Ik'ollon.

The Alban lake V, of an oval fl^ure, and, by

2.

Silver ; bright like filvcr.

Thofe argent Jitlds more likely habitants,
Traiillated laiat:, or middle fpirits, hold.
Betwixt th' angelical and human kind.
Or alk o( y'lnder argent fields above.
Why Jove's I'atcilites are lei's than Jove.

Mi/lctt,

Pope,

Argenta'tion. n.f. [from nrjrentum ,Lv.%,
filver.] An overlaying with filvcr. Dicl.
A'r G E N r N e
I

.

adj. [nrgeiitin, Kr. j Sound -

ing like filver.

Diit.

A'rcil,

AUG
A'nciL.

n. /.

A R G
Lat.]

[arg.'lLi,

A R I

Men «re afhamed to be profelytes to a wra';
arguiry as thinking they mult part with their ri putacion as well as their lin.
Decay cf Piety.

Potters

clay ; a fat fott Ian J .of earth of which
veffels are made.

ey ; partaking of the nature of argil;
conliiling of argil, or potters clay.
Argi'llou*. vj.ij. [from argil.] Confining of clay.; dayilh ; containing clay.

ments

it

Mi/ton.

A much longer difcourfe my argument requires

Scholars aliow'd fr«Iy to argut for her.
Skaitfp- H.riy VIII.
Publick argmng oft fci-ves not t-nly to exafperate the mindt, but to wbec the wits of heieti'ks.
t>tcay of fie'y.
An idea of motion, not paflTing on, would perplex any one, who ihould crguc from fuch an idea.

ginals.

Dryden.

before the thing oppofed.

Why do Chriftians, of fcvcral pcrfuafions, fo
fiercely arguiagawji the falvability of each other ?

5

He that Vy often arguing againfi bis own (enk,
Locke.

1 do not iee

how they can argue tvlib any one,

v/ithout fetting down ftridl boundaries.

bend,

Then we nii^ht fcar tSat virtue, fince flie fell
So low as woman, flioulJ be near her end.

2.

To debate any queftion

;

Donne.

as, to argue a

caufc.
3.
.

So many iawi argue (a many iins
Among them : how cjn God with luch rcfide ?
Mi!""It a'guet diflemper of the mind as well as »
the bt''dy, w'nn a

man is continually roHing fro:i:

ore fiJe t) t>ic other.
South.
This argues a virtue and d'fp fition ia thofe
fid's 0;" the ray.*, which ar.fvvcrs t
thit virtue
and difpolition of the chrylta.

tJewlen's Of.icks

4. To charge with, as a crime ; with oy.
haft p.iared gul;. to all I'm i^lits and eipreiTi 'n*; of mi.ie, which can be t uly argued fl
obfccnity, p oia;!enef8, or immorility. and r'tra.
I

tb;m.
£!r,-Jen's fjiies.
,The accid-nts are not th'! fame, w.iich would
liave argued him tf a fervilc c^py'ng, and t"tat
ba.renneis of invcotian j

wer* tr
Drydcn i Faoia.

yet the

fa-ne.

i.as

A'ncuER. »./. ffrom argue.] A reaioner;
a dilj^ater ;

a controvertill.

;

one of

the twelve figns of the zodiack ; the firft

vernal fign.

2.

my

ftate.

To

tions.

The aft of ftriking or conflifting in ge-

3.

neral.

Now thofc heterogeneous atoms, by thcmfelves,
hit fo exaftly

into their proper relidence, in the
midft of fuch tumultuary motions, and arielatiint
of other pai tides.
Ghnti/ie.

Belonging to argument ; rea{b'ning.
fnfe thou ki: dl) doll fc: free,

Opprefs'd with arguwcntal ty.'anny,
And routed reafon fiads a lafe retreat in thee.

ARIE'TTJ. n.f. [Ital. in mufick.] Alhort
air, fong, or tune.

P,.i,.

Argu menta'tion.

imitation of the blows

nance do exceed all arietations and antient invenBacon.

ylttcriur)

[In aftronomy.] An arch by which
we feek another unknown arch, propor
tioiial to the firft.
Cbamberi.
Argume'ntal. adj. \fxQm. agi'ment.]

in

llrike

which rams give with their heads.
Arieta'tion. ti.f. [from ar/>/fl/r.]
1. The aft of butting like a ram.
2. The aft of battering with an engine
called a ram.
The Ihength of the percuflion, wherein ord-

6.

Affl.de-l

To prove, as an argument.

Ntrris,

The ram

It h.ts fometimes the particle to before
the thing to be proved, but generally

This, befote that revelation had enlightened
the world, was the very bed argummt fir a future

If t'lc wn.'id's .ige and ocith le urgufd well.

and dejeflions, with the delightful profpcft

At lall from jiries rolls thebounteous fun,
And th^ bright Bull receives him.
Tb^mfon*
To Ari'etate. f. ». [«nV/fl, Lat.]
1
To butt like a ram.

1 he beft mor.il argument to patience, in
opinion, is the advantage of patience itlclf.

To .prove any thing by argum'ent.
By the fjn's fall, which now towards earth doth

Strike my foul with lively apprehenfions of thy
exce.lcncies, to bear up my fpirt under the greatelt

Shakeff, Cymbeline,
If the idea be not agreed on betwixt the ipeaker
and hearer, the argument is not about things, but
name?.
Locke.

"Tillotfon.

1

In the theological fenfe, a kind of in*
fenfibility in devotion, contrary to unction or tcndernel's.

fell

Locke.

To A'rcue. 'v.a.

ylrbuthnct on Al.mints.

r.efs.

2.

J'RIES. n.f. [Lat.]

impjfcs falfehoods on others, is not far frrm believing hi mf If.

Salt taken in great quantities will reduce an ani-

mal body to the great extremity ui aridity, or dry-

of thy glories.

out laft nighc, where
each oi us fell in praife of our country miilfeifes.

againft before the opponent, and againjl

Dry;

Drynefs ; Cecity.

Shakcfpeare.

An argument that

3. To difpute ; with the particles ivith or

Lat. dr}'.]

Ari'dity. n.f. [from ar/</.]

aridities

Thii day, in argument upon a cafe,
Some woids there grew 'twixt Somerfct and me.

to arg^ie you into a profeftion oi
Ctmgreiie^s Ded. toOld Bachdcr.

\arldus,

adj.i

Aituthnot and Pope.
His harden'd fingers deck the gaudy fpring.
Without hira (ummer were an aridvt&jt. l,bo»J.

A controverfy.

of poetical logick which I would

Decay of Pkty.

the ceconomy and difpolition of it,
things which diftinguifli copies from ori-

An air,

My complexion is become aduft, and my body

1.

tile

mnfick.]

arid, by viliting lands.

cipal atlion,
are

[Ital. in

parched up.

j

The contents of any work fummed up
by way of abftraft.
The argument of the work, that is, its prin-

4.

To perfaade by argument.

.

A'kid.

Sjtrutt's Scrmcns.

Locke.

Shrill.

fong, or tune.

your merciful difpolitions a much Ihorter.
3.

dif-

.

!

Of rtcrn Achilles.

;

pofed to controverfy.
A'r G u T E adj. \argato, Ital. argutut, Lat.]
1. Subtle; witty; (harp.
2.

Sad talk
yet argument
Not lefs, but more heroick tlian the wrath

to offer reafons.

Applied to perfons, ditputatious

3.

Dearert and beft.
Shaktff. King Lear,
To the height of this great argument
1 may afiert eternal providence.
And jullify the ways of God to man.
Milton.

So dear iji hcart/not tj dtrny her what
A woman of lefs p'ace might afk by law ;

this phiy.

fuppt (ing

That (lie who ev'n but now was your bell object.
Your praifc's argument, balm, of your age,

know y >ur majcfty has always iov'd her

ufc of,

capable of,

is

Locke.

To A'RGUE. f. «. \_arguo, Lat.

make

Another thing argumenrat: e cf providence, is
that pappous plumage growing upon the tops of
Tome feeds, whereby they arc v.'afted with the
wind, and dinirminated far and wide.
Ray.

The fubjeftof any difcourfe or writing. A'RIA. n.f.

2.

Shaktff, Mtrcianl tfVemct.

It is a fort

that thing

prove, th^t heirs ai« lords over their brethren.

Do ovcrpeer the pcct^ traffickers.

2.

as

were ; we ought not in reafon to make any doubt
of the exiftence of that thing.
Tillcifim.
Our author's two great and only arguments to

pofed by others to be a veflcl of Rugufu
or Rago/a, a Ragoxine, corrupted.]
A

;

Sometimes with «/", but rarely.
•.

A'rgosv. e. / [derived by Pope from
jirgo, the name of Jafon's (hip; fup-

I

2.

We fometrmes fee, on our theatres, vice rewarded, at leall unpunished ; yet it ought not to
be an argument agaiuH the art.
Dryden.
When any thing is proved by as good argu-

.Htbuquer^'ic dcrivts this rcJiiel« from clic iand

To rcafon

jitierhury's Pref, to tit Sermim.

any

thing.

and argUlaus tidrtli ac the boct.>m.

large veflel f>'r merchandize ; a carrack.
Vour mind ii ti^Hinj: on the ocean
There where your argcfia with portly I'ailf
Like ftgniors and rich burghers on the flood.

conlined, I could not avoid.

A'roument. »./. [argumen/um. Lit.]

A reafon alleged for or againlt

containing

1 nis oraiQion,
confidering the bounds within
which the argumentative part of my difcourlc waa

yltterbury.

1.

of argument;

Confifling

argument.

Neither good Chiiliians nor good argue:.

Ah OIL I a'ceovs. a!^J.:[fromargil.'] Clay-

a.

1.

[from argu
ininH,

.Ari'ght. adv. [from d and r/f/'/.]
1. Rightly ; with.;ut mental errour.
How him I lovd, and iove with all my might;

whereby we infer one propofition from two ir more

So thought I ckc of him, and think I th.jught a-

n. f.

menf.] Reafoning; the aft of reafoning.
Argumir.tation

is

tliat

propoiitions premifcd.

opeiation of the

Or

it

is

t!ie

d.a^ving a

rigbt.

conc'ufion, wh'eh i>eftjre was unknown, or doubt
fu*, from lomc propofi ions more kn.iwn ard evident; io when we hue julgcd that matter cannot think, and that the mind of man doth think,

we c include, that therefore the mi.'-d of
not maticr.
I fupp itz

man

fubtle, that you

is

them aright.

Mdifin.

ARGUME'NTATlVE.«^'.[frOJnflr^«raM/.]

can hardly conceive or dittinguifli
Hrddif^

Rightly ; withsut crime.

2.

A generation that let not their heart aright.

Soutt

His thuui;ht.< niuft be mifculinc, full of argu
tnnr jiion, i.ii thjt fulHeiently warm.
Dryden.
riic whole couric of bis argumcniction comes M

Vryd.

The morions of the tongue a/c fo eafy, .ind fo

is

Ira y influe:ice» ot refpcfl.

t'ling.

aright.
Till intere'.l made a jaundice in tliy fight.

Waits's Logick

no ill tnpick of argumentaticn
to fli:rf the p'-cvaienc? ot contempt, by tlie C'):.
it

SpcKJ'er.

Thcfc were thy thoughts, and thou could'li juige

Pfjlms.

Rightly ;

3.

without failing of the end

deiigned.
Gu.irdian of groves, and g:iJdef$ of the night,
Tair queen, he faid, diced my dart arght. Dryd.

Ariola'tion.

Ari-ola'tion, or Hariola'tion. k. /.
\J:ariolus, Lat. a foothfayer.]

Arithmeti'cian. n.f.

Soothfay-

/;VX-.]

and

foothfaying,

derftand thii author's works.

ARI'THMETICK, »./. [u^i^^^, num-

AniO'SO. n. j: [Ital. in mufick.] The
movement of a ormmon air, fong, or

fcience of numbers ; the art of compu-

Di3.

tune.

To Ari'se.
arifin.

"v.

pret.

n.

He r< I'e, and, lookirj; up, beheld the (kics
With purple blufhing, and the day a^c* Vrydcn,
2. To get up as from fleep, or from reft.
So Kfdras aroj^ up, and faid unto them, ye have

tles

;

Ark. k./.
1.

when

Prfjv. vi. 9.

Matl.xx'iv.

Thy dead men
ihall

(hall

live,

fing,

2.

To proceed, or have its original.
They which were

7.

Ci/u-ley

To commence holUlity.
And when he arcfe againil me, I caught him
by his beard, and fmote him.
For the various fenfes

i

of this word,

ARISTO'CRACY. n.f. [S^.r©-, greateft,
and x^uliu, to govern.] That form of
government which places the fupreme
power in the nobles, without a king,
and exclufively of the people.
The artjloiracy of Venice hath admitted io

So ftood they with their armi acrofs.

Sioift,

Aristocra'tical. ) a<^',

[from arifioAr istocra'tick. i cmcy.] Relating to
ariftocracy ; including a form of government by the nobles.
Ockham diftinguiHies, that the papacy, or ecclefiailical raonarcliy, may be changed in an ex-

3.

the

rules

or

Nrwtcn,
ad'v. [from arithme-

A R T H M e't c a l l V
I

I

.

Though the fifth part of a xefies being a fimpic
fradlion, and ar':thmttkellj ri-gular, it is yet no pro-

Vol. I.

is

ufed

'Jrr, xvii. 5.

O God, thy arm was here

!

Afcribe we ail.

Arm's e:id. n.f.

abak.fp. Hen. V,

A phrafe taken from

boxing, in which the weaker man may
overcome the ftronger, if hfe can keep
him from clofing.
Such a one as can keep him at arm's errt, need
never wifli for a better companion. Storey's ./^rcad.
For my falcc be comfortable, hold death awhile
at the arm's erj.
Shakifpeare.

In the fame fenfe is ufed arm's length.
To ARM. v. a. [armo, Lat.]
1 To furnifh with armour of defence, or
.

In an arithmetical manner ; according to the principles of arithmetick.
tical.]

per part of that mcafoie.

this fenfe

And not to us, but to thy arm aJone,

arithmetick.

cal progrejTion, as in the fifth oblervation*

Ntrrii.

In

from the Lord.

method of

The principles of bodies may be infinitely fmall,
not only beyond all naked or aflifted fenfe, but beyond all tfririwrtiftf/ operation or conception. Gntv,
The fquarea of tlic dianictecs of thefe rings,
made by any prifniatlck colour, were in arithmcii-

PryJ. JEtt.

Curfcd be the man that trufteth in man, and
maketh fl-(h his atm, and whofe heart departcth

.

to

Artuthmi en Coint.

armed all over with hard fcales like
armour, whence he takes his name, and
retires under them like the tortoife. He
lives in holes, or in the water, being
of the amphibious kind. His fcales are
of a bony or cartilaginous fubllance, but
they are eafily pierced.
This animal
hides himfelf a third part of the year
under ground. He feeds upon roots,
fugar-canes, fruits, and poultry. When
he is caught, he draws up his feet and
head to his belly, and rolls himfelf up
in a ball, which the ftrongcft hand cannot open ; and he muft be brougkt near
is

the fecular arm. Sec.

A R T H M e't c a l ai/J. [from arilhmetick. ]
I

footed animal of Biafil, as big as a cat,
with a i'nout like a hog, a t.iil like a lizard, and feet like a hedge-hog.
He

'

J^si'fft-

DiS.

Dryden,

JRMJDfLLO n.f [Spanifli.] A tour-

And with the beech a mutual Ihad: combines. Cay.
An inlet of water from the fea.

Power; might.

weapons of offence.
And when Abram heard that his brother was
taken captive, he armej his trained fcrvants, born
in his own houfc, three hundred and eighteen, and
purfucd them unto Dan.
Ceiijis.

Stake/.

He in himfelf did whole armados bring:
Him aged fcamen might then majler call.
And chofe for general, were he not their king.

We have yet feen but an arm of this fta of
4.

Fairfax.

At length, refolv'd f alfert the wat'ry ball.

Full in the centre of the facicd wood.

Aristocr a'ticalness. n.f. [from uriftocraticai.] An ariftocratical ftate. Z);V7.
Ari'thmancy. n./. [from a^iS/io;, num-

A fore-

fines.

So by a roaring temped on the flood,
-'
A whole armado of collccled fail
Is fcatter'd and disjoin'd from fellcwfhip.

DryJen.

beauty.

feas was leit i;o road

Spread was the huge armado wide and broad.
From Venice, Genes, and towns which them con-

The bough of a tree.

An arm aclfeth of the Stygian flood.

traordinary manner, for fomc time, into an ar-Jfo-

ber, and ftatTfia, divination.]

In all the mio-earth

Wherein the pagan his bold head untwines.

The trees Iprcad out their armt to fliade herface,

that [he period of id duration feems to approach.

telling future events by numbers.

Shakespeare.

[Span, a fleet of war.]
An armament for fea ; a fleet of war. It
is often erroneoufly fpelt armado.

But ihc on elbow leaned.
SiJt.ey.
Where the tall oak his fpreading arms entwines.

many abufes through the degeneracy of the nobles,

to be fitted

ARMJ'DA. n f.

The lab'ring (hip, and bear the tcmpeil roar.
2.

Spmjer.
;

with arms.
Think we king Harry ftrong;
And, princes, look you ftrongly arm to meet him.

The repofitory of the covenant of God

to the (houlder.
If I have lift up my hand againll the fatherlefs,
when I faw my help in the gate, then let mine
ar)K fall from my Ihoulder-blade, and mine arm
be broken from the bone.
yob.
Like hclplefs friends, who view from (hoie

iVm. xvii. 35.

criK.w/ form of government,

A noble geiitleman of hit;h rega.d.

Ar.m. n.f. [eapra, eopm. Sax.]
1. The limb which reaches from the hand

fee Rise.

I

To ARM. 'V. n\ To take arms

each fide, through which die i^aves were put for
carrying it. Upon the top of it was a kind of gold
crown all around it, ir.d two cherubim were faftf ned to the cover.
It contained the two tables of
ftone, written by the hand of Cod.
Calmet.

To enter upon a new llation, to fucceed

According

applied to that in which Noah was preferved from the univerfal deluge.
Make thee an ark of gopher wood rooms Ihalt

plares or leaves of gold, being two cubits and a
half in length, a cubit and a half wide, and a cubit and a half high.
It l^d two rings of gold on

to power or office.
Another Mary then arcfr,

And did rig'rous laws impol'c.

HiS fervant, arm'd againft fuch co>ercure.

Rep ^rted unto all, that he was lure

This coffer was of ihittim wood, covered with

fcattered

To provide againll:.

A veflel tofwim upon the water, ufually

with the Jews.

abroad upon the
perfccution that amje about Stephen, traveled as
yllii, xi. 19.
far as Photnice.
1 know not what mifchief may atifi hereafter
innovation.
fuch
an
Dryden,
from the example of

6.

4.

To favc himfclf and houfehoid, from amidft
A world devote to un'.verfal wreck.
Milton.

my

ye that
Jfa'nk, xxvi. 19.

dwell in duft.

5.

together with

fit

fp'ij'man's Surgery.

Taylor.

Shall build awond'rous ark, as thou beheld'ft.

awake and

they arifc :

up ; as, to ar?n a
loadllone, is to cafe it with iron.
You muft arm your hook with the line in ths
to

;

IVakon's Angler.
Having wafted the callus, I lelt tff thole tents
and drefii;d it with others a>m«</with digeftives.

but thefe thiec parts of it;

[arra, Lat. a cheft.]

To furnifh

infide of it.

thou make in the ark, and ftialt pitch it within and
without.
Gene/is,
The one juft man alive, by his command.

To revive from death.
body

3.

;

To come into view, as from obfcurity.
There Ihall arift falfe Chrifts and falle prophets.

>4..

arithmetick, hzth

fobriety, juftice, religion.

EJd, ix. 7.

i

How long wilt thou deep, O fluggard
wilt thou arife out or' thy fleep ?

ShakLlp-vre.

The

meafure.]

The chriilian religion, according to the apuf-

1. To mount upward as the fun.

3.

to

Their wounded fteeds

Yerk out th^n armed heels at their dead mifters.

tation.

[from /i and riJeJ\

tranfgrefled the law.

fjur^fu,

ftrength.

On fair ground I could beat forty of them ;
But now 'tis odds beyond jr]:hmet'uk, Shak. CcritjL

particip.

arofe,

and

Pcpe.

To plate vvith any thing that may ac

2.

Add'fcit.

Brvw-n.

ber,

He's arm'd without that's innocent within.

His defcription runs

like a multirlicarion table.

f>n

("uch

True ccnfcious honour Is to feel no fin

[from arithme-

A mafler of the art of numbers.

A man had net-d be a pood iiridmetldar, to un-

ing ; vaticination.
The pricfts of elder time deluded their apprehenftons with arUJatitny
oblique idolatries-

ARM

ARM

A R I

the fire before he will fliew his nofe.
His fleih is white, fat, tender, and more
delicate than that of a fucking pig.
Trcvoux.
A'rmamekt. n.f. [armamenlum, Lat,]
A force equipped for war ; generally
ufed of a naval force.
Armamh'ntary. it.f. [armamentarium,

An armory

Ivat.]

;

a magazine or ar-

fenal of warlike implements.

A'rman. n.f

jO;V7.

A confeftion for reftoring

appetite in horfes.

Diff.

A'rmature. n.f [armatura, Ijat."]
I.

Armour

;

fomcthing to defend tiie body

from hurt.
Others (hould be armed with hard fliells; others
with prickles ; the reft, that have no luch armature, fhould be endued with great fwiftnefs and
pernicity.

Ray on the Creation.'

z. OfFenfivc weapons ; lefs properly.

P

Tlie

ARM
The double armaiurt it a more Jeftruflive enEMic than th« lumultuary we»pon. Duay of Pie (f.

AKMEb. a,ij. [in heraldry.]

ufed in
refped of bealls and birds of prey, when

n. f.

A little arm

A piece of armour for the arm.

3.

A bracelet/or the arm.

arms.

Arme'nian Bole. n.f. A fatty medicinal
kind of earth, of a pale rtddilli colour,
which takes its name from the country
of Armenia.

Ahme'nian Stofie. n.f. A mineral flone
or earth of a blue colour, fpotted with
green, black, and yellow ; anciently
brought only from Armenia, but now
It
found in Germany, and the Tyrol.

Arme'ntal, \adj. [armentalis, or nrA'rmentine. iMf»//»aJ, Lat.] BelongDiS.
ing to a drove or herd of cattle.
Armento'se. adj. [armcnto/us, Lat.] Abounding with cattle.

Z);<3.

A'rmgaunt. adj. [from arm and^fl«»/.]

Tickling is moft in the foles of the feet, and
under the trm-hlii, and on the fides. The caufe
h the thinnefs of the ikin in tliofe parts, joined
with the raicnefs of being touched there.
Baton's Natural liijtory.

[from armiger, Lat.
Armi'gerous.
an armory-bearer.] Bearing arms.
A'rmillary. adj. [from armilla, Lat. a
bracelet.] Refembling a bracelet.
adj.

When the circles of tb= mundane fphert arc

fait.

3.

A fort of volatile
See Ammoniack.
A' R M o R £ R . n.f. [armor ier, Fr. ]
He that makes armour, or weapons.
1
for ammcriiaci.]

Now thrive the armcrtrs, and honour's thought
Reigns f.'lely in the brcaft of every man. Shake//}.
The armorers make their fteel more tough and
pliant, by afperlion of water and juice of herbs.

The whole divifmn that to Mars pertains,
All trades of death that deal in fteel for gains.
Were there: the butcher, armorer, and fmith,
forges (harpen'd faucfaions, or the fcythe.

Who

\armillatus,

Having bracelets.

Lat.]

breaftp'ate behind.

The manifold linguift, and the armifoimt folSbahffeare.

For if our God, the Lord armifolent,
Thofe armed angels in our aid down fendj
That were it Dathan to his prophet ()nt.
Fairfax.
Thou wilt come down with them.
Beneath the low'ring brow, and on a bent.
Drydeti.
The te:riplc flood of Mars armipsltnt.
AuMi'aoNOus. adj. [armifeaut, Lat.]

Ilaftiing with armour,

Pope,

4. Aftion ; the a£l of taking arms.

Up rofe the viftor angels, and to arms
The matin trumpet fung.
The fcas and rocks and (kiea rebound,

Milttn,

To arms, to arms, to arms

Pope,

The enfigns armorial of a family.
A'rmy. n.f. [armec, Fr.]
5.

A colledlion of armed men, obliged to
Locke,
obey one man.
Number itlelf importcth not much in armies,

1.

Bacon,
where the people arc of weak courage.
The meaneft foldier, that has fought often in
an army, has a truer knowledge of war, than he
that has writ whole volumes, but never was in any
South,

battle.

The Tufcan leaders and their army iing,
Whi.;h foUow'd great /£neas to the war ;
Their arms, their numbers, and their names declare.
Dryden,

A great number.

2.

The fool hath planted in his memory an army
Shake/p. Merchant of Venice,
of good words.

Aroma'tical.

adj, [from aromalici.]
Spicy ; fragrant ; high fcented.

Diif.

fon (killed in heraldry.
A' R M r y n.f. [from armour. ]

Dryden,

Both breathing flaughter, both refolv'd in emu.

Cair.eleti.

ing to the arms or efcutcheon of a family, as enfigns armorial.
A'rmorist. n.j'. [from armour.] A per-

man I fir.g,

Him Paris foUow'd to the dire alarms,

Shakefpeare.
Give dreadful note of preparation.
The morning he was to join battle witli Harold,
his armorer put on his backpiece before, and hi^

All things that are hot and aromatical io preferve

.

The place in which arms are repofited

1 .

Baccn,
animal fpirits, but
likcwife are endued with all the bad qualities of
fuch fubftances, producing all the eflefts of aii
yjriuibnot,
oily and aromaticat acrimony.

liquors or powders.

Volatile oils

refrefh

Aroma'tick.

adj.

for ufe.

The fword
Of Michael, from tlie armory of God,
Was giv'n him temper'd fo, that neither keen.
Milton.
Nor fdlid, might refill that edge.
With plain heroick magnitude of mind.

And celcfiial vigour arm'd,
trary (ins, and tlien, as out of a full armory, or
magazine, let him furnifli his confcicnce with
texts of fcripture.

a.

South.

.

Armour; arms of defencp.

Amldft whole heaps of fpicei lights »ball,

And now their odours armM againll them fly;
^ome precioully by fliatterM porcelain fall.
Dryden,
An! fime by anmatick fplinters die.
ftrong fcented.
a. Fragrant
Or quick efllavia darting tlirough the brain,
;

.'\rom a'ticks. n.f. Spices.
They were fuiniiheJ for exchange of their anmaticks, and other proper commodities.

Milton.

W-jll worthy be you of that armory.

Wherein you have great glory won this day.
Fairy i^ueen.

A'r'MOUr. n.f. [armateur, Vx, armatura.
Lat.] Defenfive arms.
Your friends are up, and buckle on their arShakefpeare,

[from aromaThe mingling of a due proportize.]
tion of aromatick fpices or drugs with
any medicine.
7'« A o'm A T z E
v.a. [from arema, Lat.
1

1.

mies, the only armour that Chrift allows them is
South.
prudence and innocence.

To icent with fpices; to impregnate
with i'pices.
Drink the firft cup at fupper hot, and half aa
hour before fupper iomething hot and aromaiixed.

A'RMOt;R-BEARER. n.f, [{rom armour

He that carries the armour

of another.
His armottr-hearer firft, and next he kill'd
Dryden.
His chMioteer.
1

T. n. f. [from arm and pit,]

hollow place under the flioulder.

.

.

fpice.]

That they might not go naked among their ene-

A'r w P

Raleigh,

Arom atiza'tion. n. f

Enfigns armorial.

a'nd itar.]

Pope,

Die of a rofe in aromatick pain.

Hung high, with diamond flaming, and with gold.

mour,

[from aroma, Lat.

Spicy.

Nigh at hand
Celefiial armory, (hields, helms, and fpears,

3.

t'::

fpice.]
I.

Their armories and magazines contemns. Milton.
Let a man confider thefe virtues, with the con-

A'rmings, «. /.

dier.

/iiiKS and the

When arrn'rers temper in the ford

Armo'rial. adj. [armorial, Fr.] Belong-

Courtney, and the haughty prelate.

War in general.

The kecn-edg'd pole-axe, or the (hining fword.
Pope.
The red-hot metal hilfcs in the lake.
2. He that dreffes another in armour.
The armorers accomplifliing the knights.
With bufy hammers clofmg rivets up.

Bid.

[inaflilp.] The fame
with wafteclothcs, being clothes hung
about the outfide of the fliip's upperworks fore and aft, and before the cubbrige heads. Some are alfo hung round
Chamlers.
the tops, called to^ armings.
Armi'potence. n.f. [from arma, arms,
andfolentiii, power, Lat.] Power in war.
Armi'potent. adj. [armifcU>is, Lat.]
Powerful in arms ; mighty in war.

Sir Edward

With many more confederates, are in artr.s. Shake/,

Vryden.

Harris'i Dejcrijimn of the Glohti.

adj.

Pope,

A fiate of hoftility.

Baeon.

are defcribed ; then that fphere is called an Brrr.'i]Uty fphere, becaufc it appears in the form of feveral circular rings, or bracelets, put together in a

due pi.fition.

Thofe arms, which Mar» before
Had giv'n the vanquifii'd, now the victor bore.

.

fuppofcd to be defcribed on the convex furface of a
fpbere, which is hollow within, and, after this,
you imagine all parts of the fphcre's furface to be
cut away, except thofe parts on which fuch circles

A'rmillated.

fence.

2.

So he nodded.

And fobcrly did mount an armgaunt ftced. Shahf.
». /. [from arm and W«.]
The cavity under the flioulder.

[arma, Lat.]
Weapon* of offence, or armour of de-

1.

kind.

Slender as the arm.

-A'rm-hole.

as, an armiet of the fea.

Others hold their plate under the left arm-pit,
the bert fjtuatljo for keeping it warm.
Swif:,
Arms. n. f. -without the fingular ntanter,

Doth fcarch what rings and armltis Die can find.
Dome.
Every nymph of the flood her trefTes rending,
Throws off her amlft of pearl in the main. Dryd,
A R M o N i'a c K n.f. [erroncoufly fo written

bears a near refemblance to lapis lazuli,
from which it feems only to differ in

degree of maturity ; it being fofter, and
fpeckled with green inftead of gold.
Chambers.

;

Maxem.

workman.

And, when flic takes thy hand, »nd doth feem

[from armed and

An elbow chair, or a chair with

refts for the

A'rmlet. n.f. [from am.
1.

that che handle may reach under the armfit of the

for a

ihort time.

2.

TSe hinJIes to thefe gouges ire made fo lonp,

A

[armi/itium, Lat.]

truce; a cenation of arms

fhort

Chalmers.

armed, or.
rhair."]

A'rmistice. n.f,

Is

their teeth, horns, feet, beak, talons,
or tuiks, are of a difterent colour from
the reft ; as, he bears a cock or a falcon

Armed Chair,

A R O

A R Mr.

Bacon,
2,

To fcent

to perfume.
Unto convertfcd jews no man imputcth this un»
favoury odour, as though arimatixed by their con;

vcrfion.

Brown,

The Aro'se.

The preterite of the verb arife.

See Arise.
I

Aro'un'd,

where he is indifled
Ciywell.
and brought forth to his trial.
Summon a felTion, that we may arraign

In a circle.

He (hall extend his propagated fway,
Wberc Atlas turns the rowllng heavSis arcunJ,
And his broad ihou Id ers with their lights are i rown'd.

On every fide.

2.

A jull and open trial.

To accufe

From young lulus head

A lambent flame arofc, which gently fpread
Dryd,

To wake from fleep.
How loud howling wolves arcufe the jades
Shah/p.

to excite.
;
But abfent, what fantjftick woes arous'd

Aro'w, adv. [from a and ronu,'] In a
row with the breafts all bearing againft
;

the fame line.

Then (f)me green gowns are by the laflcs worn
In chafteft plays, till home they walk arrw.
Sidney.

But with a pace more fober and more flow,
Dryden.

Ano'rNT. adv. [a word of uncertain etymology, but very ancient ufe.] Be
gone ; away : a word of expulfion, or
avoiding.
Siint Withold footed thrice the wold,

A'rquebuse. n.f. [Fr. fpelt falfely AarIt feeras to have

anciently meant much the fame as our
carabine, or fufee.

A barquthuff, or ordnance, will be farther heard
from the mouth of the piece, thin backwards or
Bacon.
on the (ides.

A'RQUEBt/sitR, H./. [from Off ueiu/e.]
A foldier armed with an arquebufe.
He compafTed them rn wifh'fiftcrn-thotjfand ar^
fluitiJuTifVihom he had brouglHwiih him well apKitolltt.
pointed.

A'rr ACH, O'rr ACH, or O'rrace. h./.
One of the quickeft plants both in coming up and running to feed.
•re very good in pottage.

Its leaves

The word

arrack is an Indian name for ftrong waters of all kinds ; for they call our fpiBut
rits and brandy Englifh arrack.
what we underftand by the name arrack, is no other than a fpirit procured
by diftillation from a vegetable juice
called toddy, which flows by incifion
Chambers.
out of the cocoa-nut tree.
fend this to be better known for choice of
china, tea, arrack, and other Indian %0'Ai.
1

SfeBaltir.

To ARRA'IGN. f a. ^arranger, Fr.
.

to

fet in order.]
1.

ty, that

ARRA'NGE. -v. a. [arraitger, Fr.]
To put in the proper order for any pur~

fits

it

for trial- before the juf-

A prifoner is faid

Drefs.

A rich throne, as bright as funny day,
On which there fat moft brave embcllilhed
Fairy ^cck.
In this remembrance, Emily ere day

I

3.

chanc'd this day

To (ee two knights in travel on my way,

Array, of the Fr. arroy, i. e.
In law.
orda, the ranking or fetting forth of a
jury or inqueit of men inipannelled upon a caufe. Thence is the verb to er~
ray a pannel, that is, to fet forth one by

Fairy ^:cr.

Hew

etfcftually are it« mufcular fibres jrrj;;^^*/,

and w.th what judgment arc its columns and furrows difpofed
Cheyne.
I

another the men impannelled.

;

;

with the particle inith or in.
Deck thyfclf now with majefty and excellency,

fon

jrrcngtment of the parts in
eladick budie^i, which may be facilitated by ait,
Cheyne.

Such as in highell heav'n, arrayed in gold
Millom.
Empyreal.
One \t& arrayed the corpfe, and one they fpread
O'er his clos'd eyes, and wrapp'd around his head.
Drydat.

A'rrant. adj. [aword of uncertain ety-

arrant rogue, -that is, a rambling rogue,
loft, in time, its original Cgnilication,
and being by its ufe underttood to imply fomething bad, was applied at large
to any thing that was mentioned with
hatred or contempt.] Bad in a high de-

cree.
Country folks, who hallooed and hooted after
me, as a: the arraniift coward that Lv.r (hewed his
Sidney.
(houlders to the enemy.
A vain fool grows forty times an arranter (bt
L'KJirangt.

:

and array thyfelf luiffc glory and beauty, yob, xl. to.Now went forth the morn.

put in order.

a piojier

mology, but probably from errant, which
being at lirll applied in its proper fignification to vagabonds, as an errant or

3.

In law.

See Array in law.

Arra'yers. n.f. [homarray.] Officers
who anciently had the care of feeing the
foldiers duly appointed in their armour.

Co'well,

ARRE'AR. ad-v.
Behind.

Fr. behind.]
This is the primitive fignifica[arriire,

tion of the word, which, though not now
in ufe, fecms to be retained

by Spenfer.

See Rear.
To leave with fpeed Atlanta fwift arrear.
Through forefts wild and unfrequented land

To chafe the lion, boar, or rugged bear.
Fairy S^cew,

And let him every deity adore.

Arre'ar.

If his new bride prove not an urrjir' 'horc.
DrydetJ.

A'rrantly. adv. [from arrant.] Corruptly ; fhamefully.

A'rr AS. n.f, [from wJ'/vrt/, a town

n.f.

That which remains be-

hind unpaid, though due.

Thence ;u the haH, which was on every fiiie

With rich array and collly arrat dight.
Tairy Slueen.

He's going to his mother's clofet
Behind the a'l'ai I'll convey myfelf.
Sbakefpcare.

Jcr in the preter tenfe, of which 1 have
not found the prcfcnt, but fiippofe he

Ar-

is

giv'n; his knight has gain'd the

day.
But loft the prize ; th' arrctri are yet to pay.

Dryden,

in

where hangings are woven.]
Tapeilry ; hangings woven with images.
Artois,

See

rearage.
His boon

iuneral tears are as arrjrttly hired out as mournVEjirange.
ing dokes.

To hear the proccfo.

Coiuell.

To ARRA'Y. -v. a. [arroyer, old Fr.]
1. To put in order.
to adorn the per2. To deck
to drefs

Arra'ncement. n.f. [from arrange.]
The aft of putting in proper order ; the
is

Dryden.

A.role, and drefs'd herfclf in rich array.

pofe.

As he (ha)i nafs the galleries, I'll place
Denham'i Sophy.
A gu.ird behind tiic arras.

of the circuit.

2.

j

To fet a thing in order, or in its place.
One is faid to arraign a writ in a coun- Ahra'ught. v. a. [aword ufed by Spentjces

A gen'ral fe's his a:my in array
In vain, unlels he iight and win the day. Dcnbom*

A maiden queen.

than before,

Mortimer'' s Hujbandrj.

Arra'ck, or Ara'ck. n.f.

fentone tocomraaijd them ro x.\\z\^ array . Ilayiuardw
Wcr't thou fought to deeds
That might require th' array of war, thy (kill
Of conduit would be fuch, that all the world
Jidiitcn.
Could not fu(}a'n thy prowefs.

With royal robes, and gorgeous iifrtfy,

To

It

Order, chiefly of war.
The earl elpyiiig them fcattcrcd near the army,

1.

In the fixth fatire, which feems only an arraignment of the whole fex, there is a latent admonition
Dryden.
to avoid ill women.

There

Bid her alight, and her troth plight,
And ar'>ytit thee, witch, ccjnt thee right. Shakefp.

Teut. order.

into

a charge.

ftaie of being

He met the night-mare, and her name told,

A hand gun.

[from arraign.]

reye,

arret, Sp. ar~

the middle Latin,
mille hcmiiium arraitorum, Knighton.]

(A (brry fight !) arrahg'd in battle new.

And twenty, tank in rank, they n)de artnv.

from

was adopted

The ad of arraigning ; an accufation

Chill the warm cheek, and bbll the bloom of life.

n.f. [arrcy, Fr.

redo, Ital.

It has /or before the fault.
My own enemies I (hail never anfwer; and if
your lordihip has any, they will not arraign you
jfor want of knowledge.
Dryden^i Dedication to the JEneid.

Rage in each ihrj^ht, by reftlcls mufing fed.

qu7huj's.'\

faults in

South.

Arr a'icnment. n. /.

To raife up

t.

Arra'y.

3.

To Aro'use. t). a. [from a and rou/e.'\

That drag the tragic melancholy night.

charge with

Reverfc of nature! (hall fuch copies then
Arraign ch' originals of Maro's pen ? R-jfL-ommon.
He that thinks a man to the grcund, wih quickly
endeavour to lay him there : for while he defpiUs
him, h&arrai^rii and condemus him in h)6 heart.

encircling, fo

as to encompafs.

1.

to

;

fairy S^ueen.

Shahjp^ari.

general, as in controverfy, in a fatire.

DryJen.

j^rcutid his brows, and on his temples ted.

His ambitious fons unto them twain
Arraught the rule, and from their father drew.

Been publlckiy accufed, fo (hall (he have
2.

About;

ed by violence.

Our moft dilloyal lady ; for as (he hath

And all above was fky. and ocean ail around,

hKo'vtto. frep.

derived arreachitoia.arrather ,Yx .] Sei2«

to be arraigned,

Aro'und. adv. [from a and rKtad.\
1.

ARR

A R R

A R R

If a tenant run away in arrear of fomc rent,
the land remains ; that cannot be carried away, or
Locke.
loft.
It will comfort our grand-children, wiien tljey
fee a few rags hung up in Weftminllcr-hali, which
coft an hundred millions, whereof they arepjying
the arrears, and boalHng, as beggars do, that their
grandfathers were rich.

Sivi/r.

Arr e'a rage. «./. Aw ord now little ufcd.
[from arriere, Fr. behind.]
Arrearage is llie remaindei of an account, ot*
fum of money remaining in ;hc hands of an acor, more generally, iny money unpaid
countant
J

at the due time, as arrtorage tff JtnC

P a

CrutilJ'

fajet

A R R

A R R

A R R

Paget fet forth the king of Enghnd'j title to
his debts and pcnfion from the French Icing ; witli

Arre'st. n.f. [In horfemanfhip.] A
mangey humour between the ham and

The thing at which we arrive is always
fuppofed to be good.
with la before the perfon.
6. To happen
This fenfe feems not proper.
Happy to whom tiiis glorious death arrivet.
More to be valued than a thoufand lives. Waller,
7"o A r ro'd E. f a. [arrodo, Lat.] To gna«r

ihyward.

mrc.rugts.

all

paftern of the hinder legs of a horfe.

He'll grant the tribute, fend <ib.t arrearage:,
Shahcjfcare.

The old crrearagn under which that crown had
long groaned, heing defrayed, he hath brought
Lurana to uphold and maintain herfelt'.
Hnurl'i Vac si Fmji.

Dia.
low Lat.]
and
He
charged with a crime. It is ufed fomeas, no
times for imputed or laid unto
folly may be arreted to one under age.
[arreSatttj,

aJj.

that is convened before a judge,

Arrb'arance. »./ The fame with «'DiS.
rear.
SeeAaREAR.
Arrenta'tion. ». /. [from arrendar. TsArri'de. 'V. a.
Span, to farm.] Is, in the foreft law,
1. To laugh at.
the licenCng an owner of lands in the
foreft, to inclofe them with a low hedge
and fmall ditch, in confideration of a
Dicl.
yearly rent,

Arrepti'tious. adj.

\_arreptus,'LaX.'\

Snatched away.
[from aJ and repo."]

Crept in privily.

1.

2.

2.

A flop or ftay
ment,

is

To plead in arrtjl of judgwhy judgment ihould be

caufe

to flicw

ftayed, though the verdift of the t\velve be palTed.
To plead in arr/jl of taking the inqueft upon the

former ifi'ue, is to ihew caufe why an inqueft fhould
An arrejl is a certain rcftraint ot
not be taken.
a man's perfon, d priving him of his own will, and
binding it to become obedient to the will of tlie law,
and may be called the beginning of imprifonment.

Jf I could fpsak fo wifely under an amji, 1
-WOuM fend for niy creditors ; yet 1 had as lief have
the foppe y of freedom, as the morality of impri_Jbnment.

Sbakefpeare,

Any caption, feizure of the perfon.

2.

o the rich man, who had promifed himfelf eafc
for many years, it was a fad arrtjiy that his fonl
wrts furprifed the firfi night*
teylor.
'J

this

of the crown ; and arriere, thofe who
A
only hold of the king mediately.]
general proclamation, by which the
king of France fummons to the war all
that hold of him, both his own vaftTals
or the noblefle, and the vaflals of his
vaflals.

Arri'ere fee, or fief.

ry, diftributed to their officers parts of
the domains, and permitted thofe officers to gratify the foldiers under them

in the fame manner.
Tre-voux.

See Arrest.

;

attainment of any purpofe.
How are we chang'd finte wc fii ft faw the queen

Good tidings, my lord Haftings, for the which
do errffi thee, traitor, of high treafon.
Shaieff.
There's one yonder arrefied^ and carried to prifon, was worth five thoufand of you all. Shahjp.

To feize any thing by law.
He hath enjoyed nothijig of Ford's but twenty
pounds of money, which muft be paid to maftcr
Brook ; his horfcs are arrcjlii for it.

To feize

;

to lay

hands on;

ly, the

She, like the fun, does ftill the fame appear,
Waller.
Bright as ihe was at her lu-rival here.
The unravelling is the arrival of Ulyffes upon
Broomt't View of Epic Poetry.
his own illand.

Arri'vance. n.f. [from arrive.] Company coiiiing

:
not in ufe.
Every minute is expeflancy

Shaktfpeare.

to detain

Of more arrrvance,

by power.
But when as Morpheus had with leaden maze
^rnji d a'lthat giodly company.
Fairy Slaeen.

Age itfcf, w'nich, of all things in the world,

I .

To withhold

impediment that did arrcji and

ftop the corrfe of

the conqucft.

Davits.

As ofte.i as my dogs with better fpeed
jtrrrji her fliglit, is (he to death decreed. Drjden.
Nor could hur virtues, nor repeated vows
Of th ufanJ lovers, the releutlefs band
Of death arrrjl.
Philips.

To ftop motion.
I'o manifc^ the coagulative power,
refitd the fluidity of new milk,

a curdled (Lbflance.

6.

we havc^ir-

and turned it into

To obftrucl

to ftop.
;
Afcribing (he ciufes of things to fecret proprie-

ties, h»th errtjied and laid aflecp all true enquiry.

Bacon.

claims.
Stanley, notwithftanding (he's your wife.
be you, good lord, alfur'd,
;
Shakefp*
1 hate not you for her ftOM^i arrogance.

And loves not me

Pride hath no other glafs
for fupple knees
;
Fepd arrogance, and arc the proud man's fees. SbaK
Pride and arrogance, and the evil way, and the
Prov. viii. 13,
froward mouth, do I hate.
Difcourfirgof matters dubious, and on any co.itrovertible truths, we cannot, without arrogancy,
Brvtatis Vulgar Errourst
entreat a credulity.
Humility it exprelTes by the ftooping and bend-

To fliew itfeif but pride

ing of the head ; arrogance, when it is lifted, or, at
Vrydcn^s Dufrefnoy,
we fay, toffcd up.

A'rrogant, adj. [arrcgans, Lat.] Given
to make exorbitant claims ; haughty ;
proud.
Feagh's right unto that country which he claims,
or the ligniory therein, muft be vain and arrogant,
Spenfer on Iraand,
An arrogant way of treating with other princes
and ftates, is natural to popular governments. TVm/ifc

A'rrogantly.

ad'v. [from arrogaat.]
In an arrogant manner.
Our poet may

Himfelf admire the fortune of his play ;

And arrogantly, as his fellows do.
Think he writes well, becaufehepleafesyou. Dryd,
Another, warm'd

With high ambition, and conceit of prowcfs
Inherent, arrogantly thus prefum'dj

What if this fword, full often diench'd in blood.
Should now cleave (hecr the execrable head

1.

Phittpt.

n.f. [from arrogant,]

The fame with arrogance ; which fee.
Di3.

To A'RROGATE. v.

a.

[arrogo, Lat.]

To

unjuft

1

intend to dcfcribe this battle fully, not to dt-

claim vainly ; to exhibit
claims only prompted by pride,

rogate any thing from one nation, or to arrogate to

liayward.
the other,
The fo^ei arrogated unto themfelvej, that the
empire was held of them in homage.
Sir Walter Raleigh^
Who, not content

on fliore.]

With fair equality, fraternal ftate.

To come to any place by water.

Will arrogate dominion undeferv'd.

At length arriving on the banks of Nile,
Wearied with length of ways, and worn with toil.

Over his brethren.

She laid her down.

but what (he pretended to be founded upon Chrift's

Dryder..

To reach any place by travelling.

Milton,

Rome never arrogated to herfelf any infallibility,
promife.

Tilhtfon.

When we were arrived upon the verge of liis Arroga'tion. «./ [from arrogate.] A
eftate, we ftopped at a little inn, to reft ourfelves
claiming in a proud unjuft manner. Dia,
and our horfes.
Sidney.
Arro'sion, n.f. [(rom arrofus , Lat.] A
3. To reach any point.
Dia.
gnawing.
The bounds of all body we have no difficulty to

arrive at ; but

when the mind is there, it finds

4.

A'rrow. n.f. [apepe, Sax.] The pointed

To gain any thing by progreffive ap-

weapon which is (hot from a bow. Darts
are thrown by the hand, but in poetry

proach.

they are confoanded.

the higheft wifdom by defpifing the world
to arrive at heaven ; they are blelTed who converfe

By bis bcft arroiu with the golden head.

nothing to hinder its progrefs.

It

Boyle.

Sbakefpeare.

To ARRI'VE. v. n. [arri'ver, Fr. to come

will not be baiBcd or deiied, ftall begin to arrefi,
fc'zc, and remind us of our mortality.
South.

to hinder.
;
1 his defc£l"Rf the Englifh juftice was the main

taking much upon one's felf; that fpecies of pride which confifts in exorbitant

Of Churchill.
Arri'val. »./ [from arrive.l The aft
A'rrogantness.
ofcomingtoany place and, figurative-

I

5.

Is a fee de-

pendant on a fuperior one. Thefe fees
commenced, when dukes and counts,
rendering their governments heredita-

Arri'sion. »./ [arrijio, Lzt.} Afmiling
Dia.
upon.

officer of juftice.

4.

and 6an ; ian

arriere

Baan.

haih little appetite of afceuding.

To ARRE'ST. <!. a. [arrefier. Fr. to ftop.]
1. To feize by a mandate from a court or

3.

word from

denotes the convening of the noblefle
or vafl'als, who hold fees immediately

The ilnp and arrcji of the air ihewetli, that the
air

2.

to look pleafantly upon one.

Arri'ere vassal. The vaflalof a vaffal.

A flop.

3.

[arrideo. Lit.]

Arri'ere ban. tt.f. [Cajeneuve denvei

man apprehended for debt,

as, a

;

to be arrcftcd.

;

Co'wsll.

Dia,

or nibble.

A'rrOGAnce. ')n./. [arrogantia, Lat.].
A'rrogancy. 5 The aft or quality of

The horfcmen might ifTue forth without difturbance of the foot, and the avant-guard withHa^w.
out (huffling with the batrail or arritre.

In law.
is faid

To fmile

;

!

Arri'ere. »./. [French.] The laft body
of an army, for which we now ufe rear.

Ar R e'st. n.f. [from arrefier, Fr. to ftop.]
1.

:

*^

A'rrETED.

5

Locke.

is

with God.

Ttr/lar.

The virtuous may know in fpcculation, what
they could never arrive at by pra^icr, and avoid
the fnarcj of the crafty,
Mdifin.

fwear to thee by Cupid's (Irongeft bow.
Shakefp.
Here were boys fo dcfperately refolved, as to pull
arriTOJ out of their flefli, and deliver them to be
Shot again by the archers on their fide. Hayward.
I

A'ftROWHEAD,

n.f,

[from

arroi^j

and

head.]

Art
.

ART

A water plant, fo called from

feaJ.]

the refemblance of its leaves to the

head

of an arrow.

Z);V7.

A'RROwy. a.-/J. [from arriKv.']

Arte'rial. adj. [from

.

is

Iludihras

A kind of water- fowl,
Dia.

A rewar;

There are arfnical, or other like noxmuj
rals

minelyeU-ward.

lodged underneath.

fmaller, thefe coats grow thinner,
the coats of the veins feem only

An

is

1.

but, for the fame reafon, the leaft

Artificial ;

not natural.

3.

Cunning;

fkilful ;

O

% Or rail at urtj he did not undetftand ?
3.

A trade,

Dridtn
^

MI; dexterity.

1.

2.

A

fingle claufe of an account ; a particular part of any complex thing.
Laws touching matters of order arc changeable
Hooktr,

When time Ihall ferve to flicw in ariielcs. Shakrff.
.Many believe thcar/ic/f of rcmillion of fins, but
believe it without the condition of repentance.

We

believe the article otherwile than God intended
it.

Taylor's Holy Living.
All the precepts, promlfcs, and threatening:
of
the gofpel will rife up in judgment again!! us

and

we profeded to believe ; that we made confrlTion of

Ptpe.

the thriftian faiti;, but lived like heathens.

/

C'onfider with how much arlfulneji
his bulk and
fituation is contrived, to havejuft
matter to draw
round him thcfe malTy bodies,
Cbeync.

Tilhtfon,

You have fmall reafon to repine upon that artif/^ of life.

Artfulness, n.f [horn artful.]

'

concerning

Have the fummary of all our griefs,

With

I

Cunning.

artielii

doftrine, not fo.

s-wift.

Terms ; ftipulations.

3.

1

embrace theft conditions;

between us.

let uj

have artielet
Shakejpcare,

It would have gall'd his furly nature.
Which eafily endures not article.

Tying him to aught.

Sbakefpcare.

R'g'rs.

.,

2.

the man,

j

Vice IS the natural growth of our
corruption.
How irrefiftibly mull it prevail, when the feeds of
It arc artfully lowo, and
induftrioufiy cultivated

Skill.

;

the articles of our faith will be fo many aiticles
of
acci'«itioni and the great weight of our charge
will be this. That we did not obey the gofpel
which'

The reft in rank: Honoria, chief in place.

'^''

A part of fpeech, as, the, an

by the power of the church ;

Dryden.

Was artfully contriv'd to fet her face
To front the thicket, and behold the chace. Dryd.

I.

Dryden

[articulus. Lat.]

an ox.

art; flcilfully; dexteroufly.

This obfervatioo ia afforded us by
the art of
making ftigar.
d /
4. Aitfolnefs;

From troplck e'en to pole artique,

A'RTICLE. n.f

dexterous.

A RTFULLY, ad-v. [from artful.]

;

Bm

Methinks all climes (hould be alike.

ftill the fame, UlyfTes,
(he rejoin'd,
In ufeful craft fuccefsfully refin'd.

fopt

When did his pen on learning fix a brand,J.njm.

artful.

Artful in fpeech, in aftion, and in mind.

2. A fcience
as, the liberal arts.
Am that refpca the mind were ever reputed nob.er than thofe that ferve the body.

By bringing thither fifty-one,

Performed with art.
The laft of thefe was certainly the mod eafy,

2.

ta.nrules and maxims, by whicharaan
is governed
and direflcd in his aflions.
^cutb
Bled with eaoh grace of nature and
of or/. Poft/
Ev n copious Dryden wanted, or forgot,
The lad and greateft art, the art to
blot.

As map informs, of fifty.three.
And do not much fir cold atoine.

Artful,

not

properly an habitual knowledge
of ccr-

To you, who live in chill degree.

elaftic tubes, endned witti a confraftile force, by which they drive
the blood ftill
forward ; it being hindered from going
backward
by the valves of the heart.
Arbuthnot.
adj. [from art and /«//.]

IS

taught by nature and inftinft
as, to
;
nxialk'n natural, to dance is
an art.

•'

ble.

and
to be

Bro^un,
_

In the following example it is, contrary to cuftom, fpelt after the French
manner, and accented on the laft fylla-

^incy.

TL
The arteria are

.

The power of doing fomething

from them.

continuations of the capillary arteries.

a very deadly poifon
held to the
;
tire, It emits fumes, but liquates
very little.

I.

But they would have winters like thofe beyond
the art'.ck circle ; for the fun wo>;Id be 80 degrees

when the power

would eafily feparate the fpiral fibres
from one another. As the arteries grow

(hould be written arc

[it

from a^xiiz©-.] Northern ; under
the Bear.
See Arctick.
tick,

blood veffels and nerves, for nou-

by which they have been ftretched out
The third and inmoft coat is a
fine tranfparent membrane, which
keeps

:

ART. n.f. [arte, Fr. an. Lat.]

;

the blood within its canal, that
otherwife, upon the dilatation of an artery,

A fpecies of

fun-flower.

ceafes.

arfenick,

.

A'rtick. adj.

felves with fome force,

called alfo auripigmentum or

Jlrjtnuk

Each artery is compofed of three coats

Thcfe fibres have a Itrong
elanicity, by which they contraft them-

violent
corrofive poifon ; of which
there are
three forts.
Nali-ve or yello--i>j

Arhutbnvt on Aliments.

A'rtichoke of Jerufakm.

the artciy.

ous mineral fubftance, volatile
and uninflammable, which gives a whirenefs
to
metals in fufion, and proves a

orpiment,
IS chiefly found in copper-mines,
lyhite
or cryftalline arfenick isextrafted from
the
native kind, by fubliming it with
a proportion of fea fait the fmalleft
quantity
of cry(lalline<7r/r»/ci, being mixed with
any metal, abfolutely deftroys its malleability : and a fingle grain will
turn a
pound of copper into a beautiful feeming filver, but without dudility.
Red
arfenick is a preparation of the
white,
made by adding to it a mineral fulphur.
Chambers,
- ,
,

Articbakes contain a rich, nutritious, ftiraulating

fewer flrata, according to the bignefs of

A RSENicK. n.f. [aj»£,(>!6>.] A ponder-

Miller,

cabbage lettuce ; none have double leaves, one belonging to the ftjlk, another to the fruit or feed,
but the artich'Ae.
Bacon.

rifliing the coats of the artery
the fe;
cond is made up of circular, or rather
fpiral fibres, of which there are
more or

incjpable of
Vr

a thick fleihy eatable fub-

No herbs have curled leaves, but cabbage ani

a conical canal, conveying the blood
from the heart to all parts of the body.

fine

An hereditary confumption, or one engendered

is

ilancc.

j'''-°»

of which the firft feems to be a thread of

taining arfenick ; confifting of arfenick.
is

tree j the bottom of each fcale, as alfo at the bot-

tom of the florets,

Artuibnor.

is

Rome.

cure.

This plant is very like the thiftle, but hath
large fcaly heads ihaped like the cone of the pine-

ting blood from the artery : a p.'adUce

Arse kical. adj. [hom ar/enici.]^jj-f^„^
Conby erjenical fumes under ground,

A'rtichoke. n.f. [artichault, Fr.]

much in ufe among the French.
ARTERY, n.f [arteria, Lat.] An artery

a

have a roo.n for the old Roman
inftrumcnts of war. where you might fee ail the
ancient
mihtary furniture, as it mighthave
been in an wfienfold

a joint.] Any diftemper thataffefts the
joints, but the gout particularly, ^incy.

this

rial tube creeps.

I would

W

Brown^i yulgar Errqun.

JRTHRrriS. n. f [ij^.l.;, from i^S^o,.

An Arterio tomy. n.f. [from a^„^U, and
Tiix.iu, to cut.]
The operation of let-

herb.
pofitory of things requifite to
magazine of military Itores.

and mufculous parts, are able to make progreflion.

BlacktKcre.

To afii; e trot one fide of 's horfe.

A'rsenal. n.f. [ar/enak, Ital.]

jrrinV.'M/ analogies ; and, by the motion of fibrous

mixture of blood and chyle pail'eth
through the arterial tube, it is prefled by two contrary forces ; that of the heart driving it forward
againft the fides of the tube, and the elaftick
force
of the air prefling it on the oppofite fides of
thofe
air-bladders, along the furface of which this
arte-

As wifely linowning, could he ftir

Arse-smart, n.f. [ferficaria, Lat.]

Serpents, worms, and leeches, though fome want
bones, and all extended articulations, yet have they

That

contained in the artery.
Had cot the Maker wrought the fpringy frame,

As

for Hudiuras wore but one fpur.

ArbutbnU.

Relating to joints.

2.

Sbikefp.

The b!ood, defrauded of its nitrous food,
Had cool'd and languifli'd in the arterial road.

nifying to be tardy, fluggiih, or dilatory,

called alfo a dUapper.

Frequent changes produce all the arthritiit dif«afes.

;

artery.]

Gouty ; relating to the gout.

1.

which relates to the artery;' that which

face

Of their purfuers, and o'ercatne bv flight. M:/!or:.
AnsE.fr./. [eajje. Sax.] The buttocks,
or hind part of an animal.
To hang an Arse. A vulgar plirafe, fig-

Arse-foot. n.f.

M

But yet my nature could not bear it fo.

How qulclc they whcel'd, »,d flying, behind chcm

The other would not hirng an arjc.

I

re matter with Idfs art.
Shahefptare,.
6. Speculation.
1 have as much of this in art as you

Confift-

he law them in their foims of battle r-'ng'd,
ihot

ArTHRi'tICAL.) ] tc
.. 1
Arthri'tick. \ "'(/[f'^omart^rttts.]

Skihjp.

Cunning.

5.

ing of arrows.

Sharp (Icct oferntvy fliow'r agalnft the

ART

The art of our neccfliries is rtrange.
That can make vile things precious.

4. Point of time ; exaft time.
If Cansficld had not, in that article of
time,
given them that brilk charge, by which other troops

were ready, the king himfcif had been ia danger.
Clarendon,

To A'rticve.
ticle.]

'V,

».

[from the noun ar-

To llipulate ; to make terms.
Such

'.

ART

ART

A»Ti'cuLATEKE3i. ti. f. [from arricti.
late.]
The quality of being articulate.

logarithmick fines and tangents ; which,
by the help of the line of numbers, lolve,
with tolerable exailnefs, queftions ia
trigonometry, navigation, <Sc.
Chambtri,
Artificial Humbert, are the fame with

A R T
Sach in lore's warfare ii my cafe,

r may not triicic for grace,
Hiving put love at lad to iTiow this {\ce, Dcimt.
He had not infringed the lead tittle of what vias
^rtklfd, Chat ihcy aimed at one mark, and their
«jid< were concentriclc.

Artici;La'tion. »./. [from arliculau.]
I.

m

If it be faid, Cod chofe the futicelTor, that is ma-

nifelUy not fain the ftoryof Jrphtha, whrre hoartkltj wi'h the people, and they made him jiidgtover thcin.
Ltxkr.

To A'rtici. E. v. a.

To draw up in par-

z.

luulatitn requireth a mediocrity of found.

By

3.

A'rtifice. n.f.
1.

proper paufes, in oppofition to the voice
of animals, which admit no fuch variety.
An articulate pronunciation, a manner
of fpeaking clear and diftinft, in which
one found is not confounded with ano-

1

Art ; trade ;
or praftice.

fldll

It is covered

own pifturc.

A forger

;

ufcd

the ways.

To make terms

;

to treat.

Thefe two

To Arti'culate. -v. n.

To fpeak dif-

tindlly.

Arti'culately. ati-v. [from artitulati,']
In an articulate voice.
The fccret purpofe of our hcartj nVlefs art'icuUirly fpokcn to God, wlx) needs not our words to
4ifccra our meaning.
Dttay of Piety.

Plants his artillery 'gainft the weakeft place.
Deiitam.

Artisa'n. n.f. [French.]
Artift; profeffor of an art.

1.

What are the moft judicious arli/ans, but the
mimicks of nature ?

Sidney.

The curtains clofely drawn the light to (kreen.
As if he had contriv'd to lie unfeeo
Thus covcr'd witli an artificial night,
:

With your many-colour'd art.
Draw the miftrcfs of my heart.
Guardian.
2. Manufafturer ; low tradefman.
1 who had none but generals to oppofcme, muit
have an artijan for my antagonlft.

Dryden.

There is no natural motion perpetual
;

yet

A'rtist. n.f.

it

doth not hinder but that it is poifiblc to contrive
fuch a'n artificial revolution.
ff^iHini.

1.

[art'fie,

Addjfoit.

Fr.

The profeffor of an art, generally of
an art manual.

How to build fliips, and dreadful ordnance cai^,

Fiditious ; not genuine.

Inftruft the arrifis, a.id revv.ird their hafte. ffa.'lr.

Why, I can fmilc, and murder while I fmile.
And cry. Content, to that which grieves my heart,
And wet my cheeks with artificial tca;J. Shakef/i.

Rich with the fpoils of many aconquer'd land.
All arts and aitifis Thefcus could command.

Who fold for hire, or wrought for better fame

The rcfohition which we cannoC reconcile to
public good, has been fupported by an obfequious
party, and then with ufjal methods confirmed by

When 1 made this, .in artifi undertook to imi-

S-.iift.

3. Artful ; contrived with flrifl.
'1 hefc feem to
be the more artificial, is thofe of
a fingle perfon the more natural governments.

[In rhctorick.]

Are proofs on confiderations which arife
from the genius, induilry, or invention
of the orator ; which are thus called, to
dillinguifh them from laws, authorities,

and the like, which are faid

to be inartificial arguments.

Artificial Lines, on a fedlor or fcale,
are lines fo contrived as to reprefent the

:

The mailer painters and the car\'ers came. Dryd»
tate

an artificial majority.

citations,

ff^i,tton'sj4rciite(hire,

Beft and happieff artifan,
Beft of painters, if you can.

the

Artificial Arguments.

HaytoarcU

He that views a fort to' take it.

Ben Jonfiin.

artificial day of torches to
lighten the fports their inventions could contrive,

z.

Shakeff.

Upon one wing the attiltery was drawn, being

and was the firft

Sleep did his ofiicr.

to the Tower with all the hafte I can'.

fixtecn pieces, every piece having pioneers to plain

Artifi'cial. adj. [arttficiel, Fr.]
1. Made by art; not natural.

GlamjWe.

latter fignirications are unufual.
Send us to Rome
The bcft, with whom we may articulate
For their own good and ours.
Xtaltrfi>rare.

I'll

To view th' artillery and ammunition.

A

Parifian academifts, in their anatomy of apes,
that the mufcles of their tongue, which do

3.

Shateffeare.

Locke.

Th' artificer of lies
Renews th' aflault, and his laft batt'rj tries.
Dry den.
dexterous or artful fellow : not in ufe.
3.

tell us,

Thefe things, indeed, you have artktilatcJ,
ProcUim'd at market-crofles, read iji churches.
To face the garment of rebellion
With fomc fine colour.
Shahfftare.

Have I not i\eard great ordnance in the field ^

That praftis'd falfehood under faintly rticw. Mih.

Bafilius

Samuel,

And heav'n's artillery thunder in the ikies ?

a contriver.
He, foon aware.

Artificer o( fraud !

his topguc, in articidjt'wg founds into voices.

To draw up in articles.

I

Cannon ; great ordnance.

2.

Each perturbation fmooth'd with outward calm.

To form words ; to utter diltinft fyllables ; to fpeak as a man.
The dogmatift knows not by what art he dircils/

3.

And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad,
and faid unto him. Go, carry them unto the city.

South.

find out ways.

Bacw.

Ray en the Creation.

Fr.]

Weapons of war; always ufed of mif-

1.

live weapons.

The great artificer would be more than ordina-

Let you alone, cunning artificer.

They would advance in knowledge, and not deceive thcmfelvcs with a little artkulatij air. f,eckc.

fame w'ith.artificial.
lerie.

one by

;

Ti Arti'culate. -v. a, [itom article.']

thofe of man.

Di^t.

Sidney.

meaning little in ufe.

moft ferve to erticulalt a word, were wholly like

Artfulncfs.

Artifi'cious. adj. [from artifice.'] Ihe

[artifex, Lat.]

An artift a manufafturer ;
whom any thing is made.

In the prafticcs of anificeri, and the manufactures of feveral kinds, the end being propofed, we

I .

Meltfcn.

The lights, doors, and ftairs, rather directed to
the ufe of the guell, than to the eye o( the artificer.

2.

crumbled

Artifi'ci ALNESS. H./.\_hom artificial.']

obtained by fcience

In fpeaking under water, when the voice is reto an extreme exility, yet the arl'iculate
founds, the words, are not onTounded.
Bmtn.
The firft, at leart, of thefe I thought deny'd
To bcafls j whom God, on their creation-day.
Created mute to all articuLte found.
Milim.
Antiquity ixprefled numbers by the fingers on
•itber hand.
On the left, they accounted their
digits and art'tcuJate numbers unto an hundred j on
the right hand, hundreds and thoufand?.

in diftinft articles to his queilions.

fides with earth,

Arti'llery. »./. It has no plural, [artil-

Arti'ficer. n./.

duced

Henry's inftruflionJ were extrtm"* dnr'ious and
crticulate ; and, in them, more articles tooching
inquifition, than negotiation : requiring an anfwer

on all

into powder, as if it had been artificially fifted.

rily exail in drawing his

This is a

Ray.

By art ; not naturally.

[art:Jicium,L9X.']

Trick; fraud; ftratagem.

ther.

Srcnvns Vulgar Erroun.

curioufly adorned.

2.

Sttuth,

2.

Siilvey.

Should any one be caft upon a defolate ifland,'
and find there a palace artificially contrived, and

llotdir.

It needs no legends, no fcrvicc in an unknown
tongue j nolle of all thefe laborious artifices of ignorance ; none of all thefe cloaki and coverings.

limb are divided by joints ; not continued in one tone, as articulate founds
that is, founds varied and changed at

he fct out the torments of his own can-

fcience.

The joints or knots in

[In botany.]

fome plants, as the cane.

.

Branched out into articles.

artificially

articulation I

twccn the throat and lips.

good con''

How cunningly he made his faultinefs lefs, how

Bacm.

mean a peculiar motion and
figure of fome parts belonging to the mouth, be.

•A R T I'c u L A T E adj. [from arthulus, Lat.]
t. Diilinft ; divided, as the parts of a

a.

Artfully ; with (kill ; with
trivance.

1

conceive that an ixtrcme final!, or an extreme
great found, cannot be ai ti«ulate, but that the ar-

ril.

;

The aft of forming words.

logarithms.

Artifi'ciallv. ad-j. [from artificial.']

I

ticular articles.
Hf, %vho!'e life feems fair, yet if all hit crrotirs
and folliei were «rfii/c</ again ft him, the roan would
fttm vicious and miferable.
Taylor's Rate of Hving My.
Arti'cui,aR. ai/j, [articularis, Lat.]

Belonging to the joints. In medicine,
an epithet applied to a difeafe, which
more immediately infeds the joints.
Thas the gout is called morbus artUula-

The jundure, or joint of bonei.
With relation to the
tim of the toneiin their
arliculatim, there is a twofold liquor prepared for
the inun^ion and lubrification ol their heads, >n
oily one, and a mucilagimus, fuppjied by certain
glandules fcated in the ar:icu!uti(;Ks.
Ray.

Hmicl'i fical Fntfl.

it ;

but ufing another way, fell much Ihort.

Newton's Ofiicin
2.

A fkilful man; not a novice.
If a!iy one thinks himfelf an artifi at this, let

him number up the p.u-ts of lilj diild's boJv.
'U.it.

-Vrtlesly. ad^v. [from artleft.]
1.

2.

In an artlefs manner ; withoat ficilL

Naturally ; fmcerely ; without craft.
Nature snd truth, though never fo low or vuU
gar, arc yet pleafing, when openly and artlcjiy reprefented.

Pofe,

A'rtless. adj. [from art and lefs.]
wanting art; fometimes with
I. Un/kilful
;

the particle cf.
Tlfc

A S C

A S

A S

The hljli-flioed plowmaa, diouU he quit the 9. According to what.

Who then is Paul, and who IJ ApoUos, but

landf

minifters by whom ye believed, even as the Lord
I Cor.
gave to every man,
Their figure being printed,

DiyJ.

ArtUfs of ftars, and of the moving fand.
Void of fraud; as, 3.n artlefi maid.
Contrived without fkill ; as, an artU/s tale.

2.
3.

^j jull before, I think, I hinted.
Prior.
Alma inform'd can try the cafe.
The republick is (hut up in the great duke's
dominions, who at prel'ent is very much incenfed
againft it.
The occalion is as follows.

Arundina'ceous. adj. \_arundinactus,
Dia.
Lat.] Of or like reeds.
Arundi'neous. adj. ^ arundineus, Lat.]
Abounding with reeds.
As. conjunfl. [als, Teut.]
1. In the fame manner with fomething

Addifin SIS Italy.

10.

thought king Richard had faid enough for them;
and took them to be but as of the king's party,
becaufc they were in his power, and at his difpofal.
Bacon^s Henry V 11.

When thou doft hear I ana as I have been,
Approach me, and thou flialt be ai thou waft.
Stakdfeare.

Tn finging, as in piping, you excel

And fcarceyouimafter could perform fo well. Dryd.
I live as I did, 1 think ai I did, 1 love you at
1 did ; but all theie are to r.o purpofe : the worU

Swift.

will not live, think, or love as I do.

1

1.

That ; in a confequential fenfe.

3.

he ctnnirgeft mariners were fo conquered by
the ftorm, as they thought it bed with ftricken
Sidney.
fails to yield to be governed by it.
He had fuch a dexterous proclivity, as his teachWttlon.
ers were fain to rcftrain his foiwardnefi.

The relations arc fo uncertain, as they require
Bac^n.
a great deal of examination.
God (ball by grace prevent fin fo foon, as to
keep the foul in the virginity of its firft ioBOcence.
Sculb.
.4.

In the ftate of another.

Dry den.
Thefe haughty words Ale^o's rage provoke.

my own diftrefs.

A. Pki/ifs, D:frcJ} Mahir.
3. Under a particular confideraiion ; with
a particular refpeft.
BefiJes that law which concemeth men »' men,
and that which belongs unto men as they ate men,
linked with others in fome fociety ; there is a
third which touches a 1 feveral bodies politick, fo
far forth as one of them hath publrck concerns

HooUr'i Ecdef. Polity.
with another.
D.ir'ft thou be as good as thy word now ?—
Why, Hal, thou knowefl, as thou art but a
man, 1 dare; but as thou ait a prince, I fear thee,
as 1 fear the roaring of the lion's whelp.
SUkff. Uinry IV.

The objeflions that are raifcd a^c. irift it as a tragedy, are as follow. Gay's Prcf. to lytat Sye iaii is.
6.

Like ; of the fame kind with.

A fimple idea is one uniform idea, as fweet,
bitter.

ff^aiis.

7. In the fame degree with.
Where you, uulefs you are as matter blind,
Conduft andheauteous difpofition find. BiackitKre,
Well haft the ufpoke, the blue-eyed maid replies,
Thou good oW nran, benevolent as wife. Pcjjis Od.

S.

As

if;

according to the manner that

would be if.

Dryden.
So the pure limpid dream, when foul with llains
Of ru(hing torrents, and defcending rains.
Works itleif clear ,^ and as it runs refines.
Addifon's Cato.

12. Becaufe.

He that commanded the injury to be done, is
bound ; then he that did it ; and they alfo are
who did fo a(Bft, as without them the
Taylor.
thing could not have been done.

firft

obliged

Becaufe it is ; becaufe they are.
The kernels draw out of the earth juice fit to

nouriJh the tree, as thofe that would be trees themfeWes.
Bacon.

A hundred doors a hundred entries grace
15.

He lies, as he hit hlifi did know.
And to the wood no more wouSd go,

Walltr.

So hot th' siTault, fo high the tumult rofe,

As all the D irdan and Argolitk race

Had b«en contrived in that narrow (pace.

Dryd.

Can mtlery no place of iafccy know ?

The noife purfues tne whcrefoe'er 1 go,
Drjd, Aurngsttbe.
As fate ibuebt only me.

So lab'ring on, with (boulders, hands, and head.

Wide as a mindmiU all his figure fpread.
Pope*26. As FOR ; with refpeft to.
As for the reft of thofe who have written againft
Dryden s Faifes, Preface*

As IP ; in

27.

the fame

manner that

Anfwering their queftlons, as if it were a matter that needed it.

As TO

28.

;

Locke.

with refpeft to.

pray thee, fpeak to me as to thy thinkings,
thou doft ruminate; and give thy worft of
thoughts
The worft of words.
Shakefp. Othello,
They pretend, in general, to great refinements,
as to what regards ChrilVianity.
Addifonon Italy,
I was miftaken as to the day, phtcing that accident about thirty-fix hours fooner than it happened.
1

As

With; anfwering io Hie or feme.
met;

v\hicher away (o ii^

?—

Shakefp. Richard HI.

17. In a reciprocal fenfe, anfwering to as.
Every ortence committed in the ftate of nature,
may, in the ftate of nature, be alfo punifiied, and
it may in a comnionwealth. Locke.
As fure as it is good, that human natur'; (houfd

as far fjrth a%

it is,

thjt tiic circular revolutions

and planets, rather than other mt ti;)ns
which might as poflibly have been, do declare God.
Of" the earth

Bcntley.

18.

Going before

fenle ;

a comparative
the firft as being fometimes unas, in

derftood.
Sempronius is as brave a roan as Cato. Addif^n.
Blight as the Ain, and like the morning fair.

Anfwering in fuch.
li it nt every man's intercIV, that there fhould

be Jiuh a goiernour of the world as defigns our
happin^fs, as would govern us for our advantage }
Tiliolfor..

2a,

Having fo to anfwer it ;

in a condi-

tional fenfe.

As tit as tliry carry light and conviftion to any
other man'» mderftandicg./o far, I h'lpe, my labjur may be of xi(e t/a him.
hi^ke.
21. 5« is ibmetimes undtrllood.
As in my »pe';uUtions 1 have endeavoured

to

extinguilh paftiun and prejudice, 1 am ftill dclirouii

of dcing fome good in this particular.

30.

though;

As
as if.
Thele {liould be at firft gently treated, as though

weexpe^ed an impofthuniation.

Sharp'' s Svrg.

ASS A FOETID A. J

To gtatulate the gentle princes t}v*re.

fo certain

with admirable pieces of fculpture,
Addijon on Italy.

as xueU modern as ancient.

J'Sd DULCIS. SeeBevzoiN.
^'SJ FOETID J. \ n.f A gum or refia

^Upon the like devotion as yourf--Jves,

exift;

Locke.It is adorned

How; in what manner.

Sifter, wrii

As WELL A»; equally with.

Each man's mind has fome peculiarity, as veil
as his face, that diftinguilhes him from all others.

'

16.

it

would be if.

Dryden.

Men aie generally permitted to pub1i(h books,
and concradidt others, and even tl;emfelves, as they
^picafe, with as little danger of being Gpn^'uteJ, as
of beii;g underftood.
B'jyh.

That with the noiic it fliook as it would fall.

^

of comparifon, followed

a fenfe

by fo.

Stiiift.

CranvilU.

Fairy l^uren.

25. In

29.

As many voices i(fue, and the found
Of Sybji's words as many times rebound.

19.

They all contended to creep into his humour,
tod to do that, <ix>f themfclves, which they conceived he delircd they Hiould do.
Hayward.
Contented in a neft of intyJt

hath as yet laftcd but fix, yet there hath been much
more aftion in the prefent war.
Addifan,

14. Equally.

1 he fquire began nlgher to approach,

And wind his horn under the caftle-wall.

.-'

24. It feems to be redundant before ^^^;
to this time.
Though that war continued nine years, and this

me, they deferve not the leaft notice.

And frighted Turnus trembled as (he fpoke.

1 3

33. Before henv it is fometimes redundant;
but this is in low language.
As how, dear Syphax
Addifons Cato*

On feet and wings, and flics, and wades, and hops)

Before the place

Madam, were 1 as you, I'd take her counfel J
I'd fpeak

at the fame time that.
;
At either end, it whiftlcd as it flew,

Infected as it fell with fueat of fan^uine hue.

'I

Anrwering to fo conditionally.
So may th* aufpicious queea of love
To thee, O facred ilnp, be kind;
As thou, to whom the mufe commends
The belt of poets and of friends,
Doft thy committed pledge rcftore.
Dryden^

2 2.

As wlien a dab-chick wabbles through the copfe

While

And as the brands were green, fo dropp'd the dew;

In the manner that.

Mad as I was, I could not bear his fate
With filent grief, but loudly blam'd the ftate.
Drydtn's j^r.eid.
The landlord, in his fliirt as he was, taking a
candle in one hand, and a drawn fword in the other,
jfrbutbmt and Popt>
ventured out of the room.

As it were ; in fome fort.
As for the daughters of king Edward I"V. they

clfe.

2.

'

SfiHator.

brought from the
Eaft Indies, of a Iharp tafte, and a ftrong

which is faid to diftil,
during tiie heat of (iimmer, from a little
flirub.
Chambers.
ASARABA'CCJ. u.f [afarum, Lat.] The
name of a pLint.
offenfive fmell ;

Asbe'stine. «a)'.

[^(rom afhtjfcs ."]

Some-

thing incombuftible, or that partakes pf
the nature and <juaiities of the laj>is afhefios.

ASBESTOS, n.f [«<7€„-o..] A fort of jiatire fcffile ftcne, which may be fplit into

threads and filaments, from one inch to
ten iochts in length, very fine, briitlt,
yet fomewhojt ira<Jtable, Alky, and of a
greyilh colour.
It is almoil infipii to
the tafte, indilToluble in water, and
endued with the wonderful property of

remaining unconfumcd in the fire. But
in two trials before 'Jie Royai Society,*
piece of cloth made of tliis ilone was
found to lofe a dram of its weight each
time.
This ftone is found in Anglefey
in Wales, and in Aberdcenfliire in Scotland.
Chambers.

ASCA'RIDF.S. n.f. [airxa^i^i;, froma?|(a.
{ifai, to leap.] Little worms in the reftam.

Aries, which rife* with the fun or ftar
Oblique ajceufwn is
an arch of the equator intercepted between the firil point of Aries, and that
point of the equator which rifes together

Co called from their continual troublefome motion, caufing an intolerable itch-

in a right fphere.

9.uincy.

ing.

Tc ASCE'ND. -v. n. [a/cemh, Lat.J
1
To move upwards ; to mount ; to rife.
.

Thai to the hcav'n of hea\^ns ihall he itfctrtd)
With viftjry, triumphing tliTOugh the air
Over his toes and thine,

with a ftar in an oblique fphere.
The day on which
the afcenfion of our Saviour is commerooratcd, commonly called Holy Thurfday ; the Thurfday'but one before Whit-

Hfi/tort.

to another.
Bv thefe ftcps we ihall afcenj to more juft ideis
of the glory of Jefus Cbrill, who it intimately
united to God, and is one with hiin.
Wa/ri'j Imfr^vemetii cf tie Mind.
ftand higher in genealogy.
3.

To

The only inceft wai* in the ajcejidingt not collateral

branch ; as when parents and children mar-

ried, this was accounted inccll.

funtide.

Asce'nsionalD-^^w«, is the difference
between the right and oblique afcenfion
of the fame point to the furface of the
Chambtrs.
fphere.
Asce'nsive. /7<^". \(xom a/cerui.'] Inaftate
of afcent : not in ufe.
The cold augments when the days begin to in-

Brsome'i Notei on the Odypiy.

7e Asce'nd. f. a. To climb up any thing.
They ajcmd the mountains, they dcfcer.d the
Delaney's Rnielathn exatr.intd,

vallies,

He tliat preaches to man, Ihould underftand
what is in man and that (kill can fcarce be .it;

creafe, though the fun be then ajcmftve, and returning from the winter tropick.

jliierbury,

tiined by an afcelkk in his folitudes.

A'SCll. n.f. It has nofingular, [from a,
without, and o->^ii, a ftiadow.] Thofc
people who, at certain times of the year,
fuch are the
have no (hadow at noon
;

Asce'nsion-day.

To proceed from one degree of good

2.

ASH

AS C

'A.S'C

inhabitants of the torrid zone, becaufe
they have the fun twice a year vertical

Dia.

to them.

Asci'tes. n.f, [from oun^, a bladder.]
A particular fpecies of dropfy ; a fwelling of the lower belly and depending
parts, from an extravafation and collection of water broke out of its proper
veflels. This cafe, when certain and inveterate, is univerfally allowed to admit
of no cure but by means of the manual
Siuincj,
operation of tapping.
There

are

two kinds of dropfy, the anafarca,

called alfo leucophlegmacy, when the extravafated

Brmvns J^ulgar Erroun.

Asce'ndable. ii<^'. [nova afcend."] That
matter fwims in the cells of the membrana adi.
Lat.]
pofa
and the afciies, when the water poncfles the
Di3. Asce'nt. »./. [nfcen/us,
may be afcended.
Rife ; the aft of riling ; the aft of
1
Sharp's Surgery.
cavity of the abdomen.
Asce'ndant. n.f. [from afcend.'\
mounting.
Asci'tical. 1 a.^'. [from afcites.'\ Be1. The par-t of the ecliptick at any partifwift afcent he up retum'd.
;

.

To him with

cular time above the horizon, which is

fuppofed by aftrologers to have great
influence.

fciences that were there in their higheft ajcer.dant.

The temple, and the feveral degrees of efcfrt
whereby men did climb up to the fame, as if it
had been afcala ceeli, be all poetical and fabulous.

3. Superiority ; influence.
By the afcmdant he had in his undcrftandlng,
and the dexterity of his nature, he could pcrfuade

him veiy much.

Clarendon.

It was a rock
Confpicuous far ; winding with one afcent
Acceflible from earth, one entrance high. MUtoti.
eminence, or high place.
3.

4. One of the degrees of kindred reckoned

upwards.
The moft nefarious kind of baftards, are inccf-

and I'wclling afcenti,

To ASCERTA'IN. -v. a. [acertener, Fr.]
1.

2. In

rizon.
Let him ftudy the conftcllation of Pegafus, which
Brywrii Vulg* Err.

is about that time afandant,

Asce'ndency. B.yl [from <J/fM</.]

In-

fluence ; power.
Cuftom has feme afcadeney over underftanding,
and what at one time feemed decent, appears difagreeablc afterwards.

tVatti.

Asce'nsion. n./. \afctnfio, Lat.]
1. The aft of afcending or rifing ; frequently applied to the vifible elevation
of our Saviour to heaven.
Then rifing from his grave,
Spoil'd principalities, and pow'rs, triuinph'd

In open flicw; and, with afcnjicn briglit.
Captivity led car tive through the air. Farad. LoJ).

a.

2,

The thing rifing, or mounting.
Men err in the theory of inebriation, conceiving the brain doth only fuffer from vaporous ajBntvn'i ^ulg. Err.
tcnP>i%s from the ftomach.

Asce'nsion, in allronomy, is tixhei right
Right afcenjica ot the fun,
or ohlique.
or a liar, is that degree of the equinoctial, counted from the beginning of

to fix ; to eftablifti.

To make
doubt ;

an aftrological fenfe, above the ho-

;

the quantity of filver in each piece
by the ilamp.

Asce'ndant. at(/.
Chrift outdoes Mofes, before he difplaccs him ;
South,
ind fhews an afandant fpirit abtwe him.

mena are the cftlfts of nature's abhorrency of a
vacuum, which icem to be more fitly afcribah'.e to
the wught and fpring of the air.

To ASCRI'BE.
1.

Holier,
fupplieth unto us the want of other laws.
Money differs from uncoined Cher in this, that

Ayitffei Parergcn.

ing.

upon a miHaken perfuafion, that thofe phocno-

The divine law both af:eriaini:b the truth, and

collaterals, as far as the divine prohibition.

Superiour ; predominant j overpower-

To make certain

confident;
often with of.

to

is

2.

other certainty ; that is, afcerlain roe that I am in
the number of God's children.

the goodncfs of uur work.

Dryden't Dufrefnoy.

Ascerta'iner. ». /. [from a/certain.]
The perfon that proves or eftablifties.
Ascerta'inment. «./. [from n/certai/t.]

A fettled rule

;

an eilabliftied ftandard.

For want of afcenainmeni, how far a writer may
exprefs his good wilhes for his country, innocent
intentions may be charged with crimes.
aiij.

[ao-x>j1ixo«.]

Drydrn.

To attribute as a quality to perfons, or
accident to fubftance.
Thefe pcrfeiftions muft be fomewhcrc, and there.
fore may much better be afcribed to God, in whoB»
we fuppofe all other perfeflions to meet, than to
Tilkifon.

any thing clfe.

AscRi'pTiON. n.f. [eifcriftio, Lat.] The
Dia.
acl of afcribing.
AscRi'pTiTious.fliiy. [afcriptitius, Lat.]
Dia.
That which is afcribed.
Ash. n.f. [fraxinus, Lat. aej-c, Saxon.]
1

A tree.
This tree hath pennated leaves, which end in an
The male flowers, which grow at a remote diftancc from the fruit, have no petals, but
The ovary becomes a
confift of many ftamina.
odd lobe.

Swift to Lord Midd/ettn,

Asce'tick.

I'o attribute to as a caufe.
The caufe of his banilhment is unknown, becaufe he was unwilling to provoke the emperor, by
afcriiirg it to any other reafon than what was pre.

and encroachments, which render mankind uneafy
Rogers.
to one another.

away

Har-.mond'i PraHical Catechfrn.
This makes us id with a repofe of mind and
wonderful tranquillity, bec»jfc it aferiains us of

Boyle,

[afcribo, Lat.]

To this we may juftly afcr'tbt thofe jealoufics

Lueke.

Right judgment of myfelf, may give me the

'V, a.

tended.

afccrid'weJ

tafte

Pofe.

which may be afcribed.
The greater part have been forward to rejeft It,

fields, unlefs it be diverfified with depreffed valleys

tuous baftards, which are begotten between ofandants and defccndants irt injiiutum ; and betAveen

I .

from fome accident of his life.

A wHe flat cannot be pleafant in the Elyfian
Ber:t!iy.

ti^rfm, Surg,

Ascri'bable. at/J, [from afcribe,] That

Mdifan.

Locke,

themfelves fcarecrows.

afcites

plemental ; additional ; not inherent
not original.
Homer has been reckoned an afcit'itiout name,

No land like Italy erefts the fight

Dryd.
When they have got an afcndant over them,
they (hould ufe it with modeiation, and not make

an

Asciti'tious. tieij. [afcititius,La.t.'\ Sup-

By fuch a vaft afceni, or fwells to fuch a height.

Has giv'n thee an jjceiidoit o'er my mind.

to

When it is part of another tumour, it is hydro-

An

Some ftar, I find.

longing

pica!, either anafarcous or afchical,

Bacn.

TemfU.

3

dropfical ; hydropical.

MUtoti.

The way by which one afcends.

2.

Height ; elevation.
He wjs initiated, in order to gain inftruSion in

2.

Asci'tick.

Into his blifsful bofom rcaflum'd
In glory, as pf old.

Employed

wholly in exercifes of devotion and mor-

feed-vcfTcl, containing

one

feed

at

IhapeJ like a bird's tongue.

tification .
Niine lived fuch long lives as monks and hermits, fequfftercd from plenty to a conftant afcelici
coutfc oi the fcverell abftinence and devotion.
Soutb.

He that retires to den. /.
votion and mortification ; a hermit.
that
I am far from commending thofc efeiickt,

Asce'tick.

out of a pretence of keeping themfelves uirfpotted
from the vvorM, take up their quarters in delarts.
tsorrir.

the bott.m,
Miller.

With which of old he charm'd the favage train,

And cali'd the mountain apet to the plain. Pryd.
2. The wood of the alb.
Let me twine
Mine arms aSout that body, where ag ainft

My grained ffti an hundred times hath broke.
And fcar'd the moon with fplintf rs.
Sbakcfp, Corichnui.

Asha'med. adj. [ftom Jhamc.] Touched
with

fliarae ;

generally with of before
the

ASK

ASH

A S L

To one fide

1

Profefs publickly the dofttine of Jtfus Chrift,
not being afrlmed of the word of God, or c/"any
Taylor's Holy L'lying.
prafliccs enjoined by it.

;

oat of the perpendicular

direction.

The llorm rulh'd in, and Arcite flood aghaft ;
The flames wtre blown ifidi, yet (lione they bright,
Fann'd by the wind, and gave a ruffled light.

One would have thought (he would hive ftirr"d ;

Drydin.

but ftrove

With modefty, and was ajkam'd to move. Drydin.
This I have ftiadosvcU, that you may not be

2.

;

3.

Bacon.

Dryd.

A'sHES. n.f. ivants the Jingular. [aj-ca.
Sax. aj'che., Dutch.]
1, The remains of any thing burnt.

youth, our flocks and ftubs from fuch nurture, than
we have now to hale our choiceft and hopefullei'.
wits to that afinine feaft of fuw-thiftles and bramMilton.
bles.

To Ask.
1.

And will at laft break out into a flame.

ale

2.

!

To great Laertes I bequeath
;

A'sHLAR. «./ [with mafons.] Free fiones
as they come out of the quarry, of dif

3.

4.

/

RaU'tgh.

To

We may as bootlefs fpend our v^ln command,
A; fend our precepts to the leviathan
To come ajhori.
Shaktff. Uttiry V.
Mdioi's dmut.

And all the following night in Chios fpent.

Lent, fo called from tjie ancient cuftom
of fprinkling allies on the head.
A'sHWEED. tt. /. [from aJh and -weed.]

An herb.
A'sHY. adj. [from afl>.'\

Alh-colourcd ;
inclining to a whitifh^rey.

Oft hjve ] fcen a tii^'y parted ghoft
Of
ftmblance, meagre, pale, and blondlefs.

«^

Sbakrjptare.

To petition

;

aJk pardon /*or thy former fins.
It

Ecclus. xxi. 2.

he afi for bread, will he give him a ftone ?

Matl. vii. 9.
2.

To make enquiry w'nhfor or of before
the thing.
To enquire.
;

Stand yc in the ways, and fee, and

a^ for the

old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein,

and ye (hall find relV for your fouls. Jcrcm, vi. j6.
For ojk now of the days that are paft, which
were betur'* thee, (Ince the day that God created
man upon liic earthy and aJk tram the one lidc ol

'V.

jlaci,]

To remit

ken.

Obfolete.

Prior.

[from a and faie, or

a.
;

to mitigate ;

to flac-

But this continual, cruel, civil war

No Ikill cm ftint, nor rcafon can ajlake,

Spevjer*

Whilft feeking to ajlakt thy raging fire.

Thou in me kindleft much more great delire.
Spenfer.

Asla'nt. ad'v. [from « and _/7a»/.] Obliquely ;

on one

fiJe ;

not perpendicu-

larly.

There is a willow grows ajlanl a brook,
That (hews his hoar leaves in the glalfy ftream.
Shakefpeare's Jiamlet.

He fell

;

the (haft

Drove thro' his neck afant j he fpurns the ground.
And the foul ilfues through the weazon's wound.
Drydcn.

to beg : with for before

My Ton, haft thou finned ? do fo no more, but

Ashwe'dnesday. ». / The firft day of

Vol. I,

To require, as phyfically neceflary.

the thing.

AddiJ'jii's Ovid,

pale ;

There's no petition in it.

To Asla'ke.

To Ask. t/. n.
1

in a place are

^ig^y of Bodies.

with contempt.
For when ye mildly look with lovely hue.
Then is my foul with life and love infpir'd
But when ye lowre, or look on me u/irw.
Then do I die.
Spenfer,
Then take it. Sir, as it was writ.
Nor look ajkcw at what it faith ;

MdiJ.n.

Moor'd in a Chian creek, afiorr I went.

we may conclude,

A'sker. n.f. A waternewt.
Aske'w. W-j/. [from a and jieiv .] Afide ;

"Jcnmiah, xlviii. rg.

take it in and contrail it, is no lefs praife when the
argument doth ajk it.
Ben Jcnfin.
A lump of ore in the bnttim of a mine will be
ftirred by two men's ftrengih; which, if you bring
it to the top of the earth, will aJk &x men to (lit it.
Bacon,
The adminiftration paffes into different hands
at tlie end of two months, which contributes to
dil'patch : but any exigence of llate ajts a much
lunger time to conduct any dclign to its maturity,

fatisfied,

their conceptions of being

all

the fame.

As it is a great point of art, when our matter
requires it, to enlarge and veer out all fail ; fo tr

that he brought thither afbore, would have been

May thy billows rowl afhvre
The beryl, and the golden ore.

Every ajker being

Gcncftiy xxxii. 29.

5.

Enquirer.
that

with after before the thing.

He faid, wlieiefoiT is it that thou doll aJk ajiir
name ? And he blefled him there.

on the land.

undone.
the (hore ; to tTie land.

;

rti^

The poor Englifliman riding in the road, having

2.

To enquire

South.

requcft.

1.

that flieth, and her that efcapeth,

and foy, what is done ?

Asho're, ad'v. [from a and Jhore.}

a'.l

the thin^ alkcd, had been futlicient to enforce his

O inhabitant of Aroer, (land by the way and

Bui/dfr't Dia.

;

Shaiefpiare,

To queftion.
efpy, ojk liim

Petitioner.
Have you
Ere now denied the afker? and now again
On him that did not alk, but mock, beitjw..

The greatncfs of the cjker^ and the fmallnefs of

but

Their funeral honours ctaim'd, and ajk'd their
quiet graves.
Drydin s Ane'id.

and thick-

[with buiIdcrs.]
Quartering in garrets, about two foot
an4 a half or three foot high, perpendicular to the floor, and reaching to the
under fide of the rafters.

On (hore

I.

.^ti'if.,

waves.

nert'es.

1.

A'sker. n.f. [from aji.]

as, to afi a

Gcmfn, xxxiv. 12.
He faw his friends, who, whelm'd beneatli the

Popr.

».

A

give me the damlel to wife.

he^f when the fates his royal ajhcs claim,
I'he Grecian matrons taint Iny fpotlcfs name.

A'sHLEERiNc.

M the horfcs.

To demand; to claim:

will give according as ye (hall fay unto me:

Stakeffeart.

breadths,

:

price for goods.
A/i me never fo much dowry and gift, and I

Pale ajhes of the huuie of Lancaller
Thou bloodlcfs remnant of that royal blood !

lengths,

Fix'd on the king ajkaunt ; and thus replies,
Drydiiim
Since the fpace, that lies on either fide
The folar orb, is without limits wide,
Grajit that the fun had happen'd to prefer
feat ajiattntj but one diameter
Loft to the light by that unhsppy place.
This globe had lain a frozen luaniome mafs.
Blackmere.

O, impudent.

yet will aJk,

!

A talk of grief, his ornaments of death

; on one fide.
At tills AchiMes roll'd his furious c>es,

That, if we fail in our requcll, the blame
May hang upon your hardnvfs.
Shakefpeare.
In long journies, aJk your maftcr Itave to givf-

often ufed
in poetry for the carcafe, from the ancient praftice of burning the dead.

ferent

I'o petition; to beg: fometimes with
an accufati-ve only ; fometimes with/'or.

i

Ask a'unt. adv. Obliquely

[aj-cian, Saxon.]

n}. a.

Which you deny already

;

Poor kcy-C''ld figure of a holy king

[from afinus, Lat.]

.

dearth, t^vice ten degrees, and more.
From the fun's axle \ they with labour puih'd
ObHq»ie the centrick globe,
Milton.

We have nothing elfe to a/k, but that

lands, if kept dry, that the rain
dith n')t w-arti away their fait.
Morrimer'i ilujh,

manure for cold

The remains of the body

adj.

When thou dolt ajk me httjfing, I'll kneel aown.
And aJk of thee forgrutntfs.
Sbakej'fcare.

Stakfff. HmryVl.
AOic! cintain a very fertile fait, and are the bed

2.

The po'es

Diil.

Belonging to an afs.
Yiu Ihall have more ado to drive our duUefl

At once he faid, and threw

Some relicks would be left of it, as when ajhn
I^'g^} o" B:dis.
Itmain of burned bodies.
This late diflenfion, grown between the peers,
of
forg'd
love.
feigned
ajhfi
Burns under

Fairfax.

Some fay, he bid his angels turn afkancc

k' SI K ^1t.Y. adj. [afinarius, Lat.] Belonging to an afs.

Sideways ; obliquely.

8'idnty%

From the company ; as, to fpeak a/ide.

A'sinine.

r

{• ff</t/.

His wannilh eyes upon them bent afiance.
And when he taw their labours well fucceed.
He wept for rage, and threaten'd dire miichance.

Afcri, vii. 33.

Made of afh

'

Zelmane, keeping a countenance ajkanct, as (he
underftood him not, told him, it became her evil.

He took him afidt from the multitude.

\Vmihi;crd onFoJpl:.

His ajheri (yeix, which qulver'd as it fiew.

s

it diawetl:

the fubjeils eyes a little afidi.

Coloured between brown and
grey, like the bark of an aOien branch.
CUy, ajlj-cd!,Hred, was part of a ftratum which
/oac.]

wood.

"^

out of the true direc-

thing for kings to have, yet

Gib/on' s Camden,

ape, an aih tree.

He had no brother; which though it be a comfortable

AsH-coLOURED. adj. [ffom ajh and co-

A'sHEN. adj. [from «/&.]

To another part

Dmi. iv. 32.

heard like it.

Ask, Ash, As, do all come from the Saxon

tion.

cjhamtd of tiiiX. hero, whofe proteflion you underDryden.
take.

lay above the ftrata cf ftone.

heaven unto the ether, whether there hath been
any fuch thing as this great thing is, or hath been

.Asi'de. adv. [from « andyfrfif.]

the caufe of fliame if a noun, and to if a
verb.

Asle'ep. fli/'U. [from a and _/7i?i?/.]
I.

Sleeping ; at reft.
How many thouf^inds of my pooreft fubje<5l8
Are at this hour ajleep !

O gentle (leep.

Nature's foft nurfe, how have 1 frighted thee !
Sbakefpare.
The diligence of trade, and noifeful gain,
And luxury more late ajleep were laid
All was the night's, and in her filcnt reign,
No foivid the reft of nature did invade. Dryden,
There is no diflercnce between a perfon ajleep^
and in an apoplexy, but that the one tan be awa:

ked, asidth'! other cjnnot.

Q,

^rbuthnol on Out.

2.

To

2.

Then Iball thy Craggi (a"'' let me eill hStn

To fleep.
Ir'

ASP

ASP

ASP
Baon'i EJfay:.

faU atUtf.

Thus done the talfs, to bed they creep.
JiiTiltin,
By whifpcrtng winds foon lull'd ojlief.
With
Ai\.o'?t. adv. [from a and_/7ff/r.]
declivity ; obliquely ; not perpendicu-

Thole corpufcles of colour, infinuaiing them-

With aJfrU cpen fliall ereft his head.
Toft.
3. Glaiice ; view ; aft of beholding.

alt the pores of the body to be dyed,
taiy afperale iti fuperiicies, according to tbe bignrfs a.jd tex.ure of the corpufcles.
By/e.

felves into

Fairer than faireft, in his faining eye,

Whofe fole afftd he counts felicity.

Spen/er.

When an evious or an amotoas efpe^ doth infeft the fpirits of another, there is joined both af-

Bjc n't Natural IIj/l.
towards any point ; view

feflion and imng'nnion.

Direction

4..

To

roughen ; to make rough or uneven.

On the caft ore another Pollio fhine;

larly.
Set them not upright, but ajlopt, a reafonabic
Bacon.
depth under the ground.
The curfc epl>t
earn
mud
bbour
I
with
Clanc'd on the ground ;
My bread : what harm ? Idlcnefs had been worff
Miltm.
labour will fuliain me.
The knight did ftoop.
HuJiiraiAnd fjte on further fide ajlafe.

To A'SPERATE. t/. a. [a/pero, Lat.]

mine)

a n:an watch too long. It !( odils but he will

Aspera'tion. ;/./. [from a/perate.] A
making rough.
Diff.
Asperifo'lious. t:i/J. [fromfl^^r, rough,
and folium, a leaf, Lat.] One of the
divifions of plants,

pofition.

The fctting fun

fo

called from the

roughnefs of their leaves.

:

Slowly defccndcd ; and with right affili
Againft the eaftem gate o( ParaJife

My

Aso'matous.

[from a,

aJj.

cujxct, a body.]
out a body.

priv.

and

Incorporeal, or with-

Difpolition of any thing to fbmething
elfe ; relation.
The light got from the oppofite arguings of men

5.

It is faid to be very fmall, and

medy.

Thofe
peculiar to Egypt and Libya.
that are bitten by it, die within three
hours ; and the manner of their dying
being by fleep without any pain, CleoCalmet.
patra chofe it.
High-minded Cleopatra, that with ftroke

Of afp'i fting herfelf did kill.

Fairy Suen.

Scorpion, and affj and ainphiibxna dire,
Milton.

And dipfas.
Asp. n. /.

A tree.

See Aspen.

JSPjTLJTHUS. n.f. [Latin.]
1. A plant called the rofe of Jerufalem, or

of parts, (hewing the different fides of things, and
their various afpclii and probabilities, would be
quite loft, if every one were obliged to fay after the
Locke.

fpeaker.

6. Difpofition of a planet to other planets.
There's fome ill planet reigns,
I muft be patient till the heavens look
With an ajpcli more favourable.
Shaie/p. jyintirs Talt.
a conjundion of planets, of no very benign aJprCl the
ffolton.
one to the other.
To the blank moon
Her office they prcfcrib'd : to th' other five

Not unlike that which aftrologers call

gave a fweet fmell like cinnamon and ajfalaand I yielded a pleafant odour like the befl
Ecchs, xxiv.
myrrh.

ttmptr.

Aspe'ctable.

Miller.
J^farapti aflcfts the urine with a fetid fmell,
and therefore have been fufpeftcd by fome phyficians, as
to
the
kidneys
:
when
friendly
they
not
are older,
tnd begin t» ramifyi they lofe this cjuality ; but
then they are not (o agreeable.
tfpecially if cut when they are white;

Arbu!hmt on jVimentt.

lying in its rubbilh.

Bitrnei't Theory,

2. Countenance ; look.
Thofc eyes Ji thine from mine haw drawn fait
tears,

'Sbam'd their «j[if/?jwith ftore of childilh drops.
Sbaktfftaret Richard 111.
wherefore frowas he thus, ?
•Tis his a^jiS of terrour. All's not well. Shairff.
Yet hid his afptti nothing of fcverc,
But fucb a face as p.-oinis'd him linccrn Drjdm.
I

am fearful

:

Roughnefs or ruggednefs of temper
morofenefs'; fournefs ; crabbednefs.
The charity of the one, like kindly exhalationsy
will defcend in (bowers of blelTings ;

Lat.]

ajfir'aj

Rogers.

fpirit.

Asperna'tion. n.f.

:

Clarendon*

Curb that impetuous tongue, nor ralhly vain.
And fingly mad, afperje the fov'reign reign. Pcpe*
Unjuftly poets we ajperfe.
Truth Ihines the brighter clad in verfe.
Sivifl,
Aspe'rsion. tt.f. \afperJio, Lat.]
1
fprinkling.

A

If thou doft break her virgin knot, before
All fanflimonious ceremonies.
No fweet ajferfons (hall the heav'os let fall.
To make this contract grow.
Shaktfpettfe.
It exhibits a mixture of new conceits and old,
whereas the inftauration gives the new unmixed,
otherwife than with fome little «;^i>y!i»i of the old,
for taftc's fake.

The leaves of this tree always tremble.
The a/pen or afp tiec-hath leaves much the fame
with the poplar, only much fmaller, and not fo
white.

Mortimer.

The builder oak fole king of forefts all,
The ajfen, good for ftatues, the cyprefs funeral.
Spcnftr.

A's p E N . atlj.
1.

[ from afp or a/pot. ]

Belonging to the afp tree.

Oh

!

had the monfter Iccn thofe lily hands

Tremble like affen leaves upon a lute.

Shak'fp.

No gale difturbs the trees,

lowing paflage.
.Ml

bale notes, or very treble notes, give an
for that the bafe ftrijutb more

isujx it caa well Arike equally.

2.

Calumny

;

Bacon*

-

cenfure.

The fame ajperfiom of the king, and the fame
grounds of a rebellion.

Aspha'ltick.

Gummy

;

Dryden*

eidj.

[from afphallos.\

bituminous.

And with ofphaltick (lime, broad as the gate,
Deep to the rojts of hell, the gather'd beach
Thcv f.iftvn'd.
Miltm.
ASPHA'LTOS. n.f. [ic<p»>.7U, bitumen.]
folid, brittle, black, bituminous, inflammable fubftance, refcmbling pitch,,

A

and chiefly found fwimming on the furface of the Laciis Ajpljaltiies, or Dead
Sea, where anciently flood the cities of
Sodom and Gomorrah. It is call up in
the nature of liquid pitch, from the
bottom of this fea and, being thrown
upon the water, fwims like other fat bodies, and condenfes gradually.
ASPH-iTLTUM. »./. [Lat.] A bituminous
ftone found near the ancient Babylon,
and lately in the province of Neufchatel
which, mixed with other matters,
makes an excellent cement, incorrupti;

Nor allien leaves confefs the gcntleft biccze. Cay.
2. Made of afpen wood.
yfSFER. adj. [Lat.] Rough ; rugged.
This word I have found only in the fol-

affrr found ;

To

In the bufinefs of Ireland, bcfides the opportunity to afperfe the king, they were fafe enough.

ing ; view.

;

[a/pergo, Lat.]

befpatter with cenfure or calumny.

Ray on the Creation.

As'pen, or Asp. »./ [^?, Dutch a/p,
Dan. epfe, trembling. Sax. Somner.']
See Poplar, of which it is a fpecies.

Rough;

Black and white are the moft afperous and unequal of colours; fo like, that it is hard to diftinguUh them black is the moft rough.
Boyle*

Asfe'ction. «./ [from a/peS.] Behold-

BroTVn,

Di3.

\afper, Lat.]

uneven.

To this ufe of informing us what is in this

fair one.

\afpernaUo, Lat.]

Negleft; difregard.

A'sperous. adj.

afpiflai/e world, we fliall find the eye well fitted.

A Moorish queen, upon aJfeHion of the piflurc
of Andromeda, conceived and brought forth a

but the ri-

of the other, in a fevere doom
upon ourfelves.
Government of tbe Tongue*
Avoid all unfeemlinefs and afftriiy of carriage ;
do nothing that may argue a peevi(h or frowarJ

gour and

RaUigb.

perceivable univerfal.

It apn.f. [a/peaus, Lat.
pears anciently to have been pronounced
with the accent on the laft fy liable, which
is now placed on the firft.]
1. Look; air; appearance.

They are, in myjuJgment, the image or pifture
of a great ruin, and have the tiue a/ftfl of a world

nunciation.
3.

He was the fole caufe of this aJfeHable and

A'SPECT.

I have prefentcd t:ic tongue under a double ^J^r/?,
fuch as may juft'f/ the definition, that it is the
Governmim of thi 1'on^ue.
bcft and word part.

[a/peilabilis ,

Vifible ; being the objeft of fight.

[Lat.]
The name of
It has a rofaceous flower of fix

» foft globular berry, full of hard feeds.

aJj.

Boyle,

Roughnefs of found ; harfhnefs of pro-

I'araJife Lofl.

Aspa'racus. »./

leaves, pl.tced orbicularly, out of whofe
centre rifcs the pointal, which turns to

quor, that they glide over the furface.
2.

Why does not every fingle flar (bed a feparate To ASPE'RSE. v. a.

I

a plant.

Sometimes the pores and afperities of dry bodies
incommcnfurate to the particles of the li-

are fo

Their planetary motions, and ajprBit^
In fextile, fquare, and trine, and oppofite.

our lady's rofe.
influence, and have afpt^i with other ftars of their
Btntley't Strmont.
own conftellacion ?
2. The wood of a prickly tree, heavy, oleaginous, fomewhat (harp and bitter to To Aspe'ct. f.fl. [a/picio, Lat.] To behold : not ufed.
the tafte.
Afpalathus affords an oil of
Happy in their miftake, thofe people whom
admirable fcent, reputed one of the bed
The northern pole aJptHs ; whom fear of death
Chambers.
perfumes.
(The greateft of all human fears) ne'er moves.
th*i,

Unevennefs; roughnefs of furface.

1.

Sivjft.

afttfl with brick.

A

kind of
7 a-/. [«^»V, Lat.]
A'spicK.j ferpent, whofe poifon kills
without a poflibility of applying any re-

Asp.

AsPE RITV. n.f. [a/peritas, Lat.]

PamJift I.ofl.
Levell'd his ev'ning rays.
1
have built a ftrong wall, faced to the fouth

ai r

Bacn.

;

ble

bla by air, and impenetrable by water ;
fuppofcd to be the mortar fo much cele-

brated among the ancients, with which
the walls of' Babylon were laid. Chamb.

A'sPHODiiL.

[lilio-nJ'phoJeluj,

n. f.

'L?ii.'\

Day-lily.
Ajphodti were by the ancients planted near barying-places, in
order to fupply the manes of the dead
with nourifhment.
By thofc happy fouls who dwell
In yellow meads of fifphodel.

A'spicK. n.f. [See Asp.]
a ferpent.

One that

Aspi'rSTI. n.f. [from affire.'\
ambitioufly ftrives to be greater than
he is.
They ween'd
To win the mount of God ; and on his throne

To fet the envlerof his fiate, the proud
Ajflrer : but their thoughts prov'd fond and vain.

MHion.

Asporta'tion. n. f.

who

1.

[ajtitus,

Siulfr.

Lat.]

fluggifhnefs, patience, hardinefs, coarfe-

To

[ajfiratas, hat.^

Becaufe you bought them.
2.

I

A

that fpirit of his
j
In afi>irj!:on lifts him from the earth. Sbaiefpeare.

The pronuDciacion of a vowel with full
breath.

H

i« only

agutturatuj^'irjrwff,

i.

e. a more for-

cible impulfe of the breath from the lungs.

To ASPrRE. 'v. ft.

Holder.

[afpiro, Lat.]

To defire with eagernefs

to pant after
;
fomething higher: fometiraes with the

I .

particle to,
Moft excellent Udy, no expeftitjon in others,
nor hope in himff If, could afpire to a higher mark^
than to be thought worthy to be praifcd by you.
Sidney,

His father's grave cnunfellors, by whofc means
iic hal ajp'trid to the kingdom, he cruelly tortured.
KnoUti.

Hence fprings that univerfal ftrong defire,

Which all men have of immortality
•

:

Not fomc few fpirits unto this thought ajftre,
But all men's minJs in this united be.
Da-vks.
Horace did ne'er afpire to epic bays
Nor lofty Maro iloop to lyrick lays. Ro/ammon*
Till then a helplei*', h^pelefs, homely Twain ;
:

not freedom, nor afpir'ti tc gain. Dryjcn,
AJiJrirg to be gods, if angels icVf
Ajf-hinT (0 be ang' U, men rebel,
P'^pe.
1 fnujjht

2-

Sometimes with after,
Thofc are
smmort-ility,

faif«:d

who believe the perpetual duratlr-n

after immortality.

To riJe

;

crime of an aiTaflin ; murder.
Weie not all ajfjjjijiatei and popular infuirec-

;

or motives applied to the paffions.

tions wrongfully chartifed, if the mcanncfs of the

offenders indemnified them from punifliment ?

Let us aJ'aU the family of York.
Sbakefpeare*
She will not ftay the fiege of loving terms,
Nor bide th* encounter of affai/ing eyes. Shalefp.
How have I fear'd your fate but fear'd it moft,
When love aJfaU'd son on the Libyan coafl. DryJ.
All books he reads, and all he reads ajjails,
From Dryden's Fables down to
y's Tales. Pope.
!

D—

In vain Thaleftrii with reproach a^iaih ;
For who can move when fair Belinda fails ? P^pe,

Assai'lable.

adj.

{(rora ajjail.'\

That

which may be attacked.

Pope,

To Assa'ssin ate. -v. a. [from affajftn.'\
1. To murder by violence.
Help, neighbours, my houfe is broken open by
force, and I am ravifhed, and like to be ajfajfinated,
Drydeti,

What could provoke thy madnefs
To ajjhjfmaie fo great, fo brave a man ?
Pbilips,
2. To way-lay
to take by treachery. This
meaning is perhaps peculiar to Milton.
;

Such ufage as your huaourable lords

Banquo, and his Fleancc, lives.

Afi'ord me, c[[ii(Jlnated and betray'd.

—But in them nature's copy 's not eternal.—
—There's comfort yet, they inaJJaUahU. Sbaiefp.
Assa'ilant. »./. [aj/ai l/a/tt, Fr.] Hs
that attacks ; in oppofition to defendant.
The fame was fo well encountered by the defendants, that the obHinacy of the ajfailanti did
but incicafi the lofs.
llayiajrd.
I'll put royfelf in poor and mean attire.
And with a kjni of umber fmirch my faccj
The like do you ; fo (hall we pals alonj.
And never ftir tijfailantu
Sbuhcfp^are.

Attacking; invading.
And as ev'ning dragon came,

A%s\'\i.\tir. adj.
j^Jftiilant t<n

the peiched roolls

Of tame viilatick fowl.
Ass a'i i.e
n.f. [from pJiiiL]
.

Who rfurft not, with your whole united powVs,
In fight withftand one iingle and unarm'ti. Mtlton»
AsSASSi N a'tion. n, f. [from ajfetffinati.'\
The aft of aifaffinating ; murder by violence.
It were done quickly, if th' ajfajfmation
Could trammel up the confequence. Sbakefpeare.
The duke finiHi'd his cbucfe by a wicked aJJ'.JJi-

nation,

kills another

Assa'tion.
Milton.

Atterhury,

to tower.

There is betwixt th.»t fmilc we wr,uU ofb'ire to^
That fwcct afpeft of princes and our ruin,
More pangs and fears than war or women have.
$bakefptar£.

My own breath fliU foment the fire,
WhicU fiagie^ aj high as fancy can fifpiu% WalUr.

Palladiui h'-Ue.l, fo putfued o\it ojjaihri, that
Sidney.

». f.

A little animal of

Virginin, which is faid to fly by ftretching out its (boulders and its flcin, and is
called in Englidi the flying fquirrel.
Trevoux.

Assa'rt. n.f. [ejjart, from effarter, Fr.
to clear away wood in a forell.]
An offence committed in the forcil, by plucking up thofc woods by the roots^ that

n.

by violence.

f [aj/li/us, roafted, Lat.]

Roafting.

One who

one of tltem (If-w him.

A^sapa'nick.

ClarciidoDm

Assassina'tor. n.f. [from affajjin ate.
Murderer; mankiiler; the perfon that

The egg e»plring lefs in the clixation or boiling
whereas, in the ti/pri'jn or roafting. It will fomc-

attacks another.

above fenfe, and afpire afu-r

of llicir fouls.
TUhtfon.
There is none of us but who would l>e thought,
fhroughout the whole courfe of his life, to efpire
3.

argument ; cenfure

My gracious lord, here in the parliament

ken the manner of his gait

He fifes on his toe
3.

To attack with

Addlfetl.

Assa'ssinate. «./. [Uoiafif/iiJJ!n.'\ The

Fairy S^ueert.
z.

of the fuffering perfon, than of the

Oreftes brandllh'd the revenging fword.

To attack in a hoftile manner; to aft.'

pralii.

guilt

Slew the dire pair, and gave to fun'ral flame
Thz yWc ajfhjjirty and adult'rous dame.
Pope,
Ufeful, we grant, it fcrves what life requires.
But, dreadful too, the dark aJJi^JJin hins.
Pope,

fault ;

A foul infpiredwith the w»rnieft<»^i»'<i/;4Bi after

thing high and great.

on the
ajjijin.

[offailUr, Fr.]

cdcHial beatitude, keeps its powers attentive.

The aft of afpiring, or defiring fome-

When flie hears of a murder, (he enlarges more

^baltfpeare.

to fall upon ; to invade.
So when he faw his llatt'ring arts to fail.
With greedy force he 'gan the fort ajfliil,

is

'Creecb*

Should yield the world to this eft .'^a woman that
Bears »'l down with her brain ; and yet her fon
Cannot take two from twenty, for his heart.

bleffings.

I

;

Shakeffeare.

I.

unknown.

Let the foldlers feize
hira for one of the ojjljfmalet, and let me alone to
accufe him afterwards.
Drjdcit.
Here hir'd nff'.'Jfim for their gain invade,
And trcach'rous pois'ncrs urge their fatal trade.
that did it

That fuch a crafty mother

n.f. [a/firalio, Lat.]

Milloni

The old king is juft murdered, and the perfon

a dolt.
do begin to perceive that I am made an ofi.

And leave eighteen.
To ASSA'IL. -v. a.

'

War unprociaim'd.

Sbakfff-eare.

A ftupid, heavy, dull fellow

Pro-

breathing after ; an ardent wilh
ufed generally of a wifh for fpiritual

'Tis he ;

Tht Syrian Icing, who, to furprize
One man, affaffm like, had levy'd war,

You ufe in abje£V and in ilavilh part,

For their being pervious, you may call them, if
you pleaft, perfpiratc ; but yet they are not aff'iIhhtcr,
rate, i. e. with fuch an afpiration as t,

Z.

In thevcty moment as the knightwithdtewfrora
the duke, this ajj'.i^mMs gave him, with a back
blow, a deep wound into his left fide.
U^otton*

An aiiimal of burden, remarkable for
nefs of food, and long life.
You have among you many a purchss'd flave,
Which, like your ^[fa, and your dogs and mules,

nounced with full breath.

I .

A

ger, at the command of their chief.]
murderer ; one that kills by treachery,
or fudden violence.

who have contrary views, or loiik

afqulnt, cr Ihut their eyes.

Ass. n.f.

AVhere avowel ends a word, the next begins e'l-

Aspira'tion.

Afia, where, about the time of the holy
war, there was a fet of men called alf-

D/S.

dan-

as we afpirate horji, houfe, and hog,

a^J.

n.f {I'ffnffin, Fr. a word
Assa'ssin ATE. 5 brougtit originally from
7

killed any man, without regard to

pronounce with afpiration, or full breath;

it\a with a confooant, or what is its equivalent
Drydi-n.
for our iv and h tijptrate,

See Assart.

mit an afTart.

ASS A'SSIN.

fnffins, as is fuppofed for Arfaddce,

Why did I 'fcape th' invenom'd a/fid's rage.

[(j/^/ro, Lat.]
be pronounced with full breath.

Coivell.

To Assa'rt. 'v. a. \eff'arttr, Fr.] To com-

liquely ; not in the rtraight line of vifion.
A fingle guide may direft the way betTcr than
five hundred,

TeA'spiRATE. 'v.n.

by making them as plain as arable land.

As (iu i' N r. aii'-j. [from a andy^a/»<.] Ob-

The name of

To fce this day ?
yidjifin.
To A'SPIRATE. -v. a. [afpiro, Lat.] To

are thickets or coverts of the foreft, and

Lat.]

[ajpartatio,

A carrying away.

Pope.

And all the fiery monfters of the dcfart.

A'spiRATE.

ASS

ASS

ASP

time'j abite a

drachm.

Brcnvns fulmar Err^ttn^
[afault, French.]
hoftile onfet
oppofed to de-

ASSA'ULT. n.f
Attack;

1.

:

fence.
Her fpirit had been invincible againft all ajfuultt
of afTciftion.

Shaiejpeare,

Not to be fliook thyfelf, but all ajfauitt
BaHling, like th/ hoar cliffs the loud fca wave.
Tbomfatu

2.

Storm

:

oppofed tafap

m fiege,

J.ifon took at lead a thnufajid

men, and fudi Mac, v. 5.

denly made an ajjiiull upon ihe city,

0^3.

After

After fome d«y« ficge, he refolved to try the
fortvoe of an ttjUamh : he fucceeded therein (o far,
that he had taken the priocipal tower and fort.
Baccn.

3. Hoftile violence.
Themfelves at difcord fell,
And cruel combat jojn'd in middle fpace,
With horrible tffiull and fury fell. Fairy Stutin.
4. Invafion ; hoflility ; attack.
After fome unhappy affaulii ufen the prerogative
by the parliament, which produced its diflolucion,
Ciarendon.
there followed a compofure.
Theories, built upon narrow foundations, are
very hard to be fupported againft the ajjaults of op-

ing metals.

Whom tlius affliAed when fad Eve beheld,
Defolate where flie fat, approaching nigh.
Soft words to his fierce paflion flie ajfay'd. Milton.

To Assa'ult. -v. a, [from the noun.] To
attack ; to invade ; to fall upon with
violence.

The king granted the Jew> to gather themfelves
together, and to Aaod for their life, to dcHroy all
the power that would ajjauh them. EJib. viii. 1 1.
Before the gates the cries of babes new-born.

Whom fate had from their tender mothers torn,

Attendance, or waiting upon.
n.f. [from affiquor,

ctttum,

Acquirement ; the

poiitive ideas of fpace or duration.

Neither liking their eloquence, nor fearing their
might, we efleemed few fwords, in a jufl defence,
able to refift many unjuft ajfaulicn,
Sidmy,

2.

ASSA'Y. »./.

[tfaye. Fr. from which the
ancient writers borrowed aj/ay, accordlatter ejfay,

Locke.

This cannot be

i/.

a.

4. Trial by danger or diftrefs ; difficulty ;

«. /. {ajfemblee,

Asse'nt. ft./.

Fr. ]

Yettrm'd to point in well attempted plate. Fair/.
Be fure to find
2.

of.

One that to bounty never caft his mind,

Ne thought of honour ever did ajfay
His bafcr breali.
Sprnpr.
Cray and Bryan obtained leave of the gcncial a
with
fome
horfirmtn
little taajjay them \ and fo
Hay ward.
charged them home.
What unweighed behaviour hath this drunkard
picked out of my converfatioO; that he dares in
ibakcjftare.

He was not fo fond of the principles he under-*
took to

to

as

illullrate,

bsad their certainty

propofing them not in a confident and ajfcrtivt
form, but as probabilities and hypothefcs. C!aytv»

Assr'rtor.

Main-

[from ajferl-l

n. f.

Faithful ajprtor of thy country's caufe,
Britain with tears ih^U bathe thy glorious wound.
Prior.
It is an ufual piece of art to undermine the
authority of fundamental truths, by pretending to
fliew how weak the proofs arc, which their ajfcrtirt

employ in defence of them.

To Asse'rve.
To ASSE'SS.

certainty of them, doth not a

little

comfort and
Hooker.

[nfentire, Lat.]

To

concede ; to yield to, or agree to.
And the Jews alfo aj/entcdf faying, that thefe
Uujigs W«r« fo

^Ss, XJJV. $•

Ital,

Batons
\ttffef!io,\A\..'\

A fitting

down by one, to give affiltance or advice.

To urge any thing upon the church, requiring
thereunto that religious aj/erl of chriftian belief,
whorewith the words of tlic holy prophets arc received, and not to (hew it in fcripturc j this did
the Fatliers evermore think uiJawful, impious,
Hooker.
and execrable.
The evidence of Cod's own teftimony, added
unto the natural a^tnt of reafon concerning the

«..

{itom afefare,

a.

make an equilibrium,

or balance.}
To charge with any certain film.
Bcfjre the receipt of them in this office, they
were afj'rjj'cd by the affidavit from the time of the
to

Sbaieffeare.

Confent ; agreement.

-u.

-v.

To

Di3.

inquifition found.

The aft of agreeing to any thing.

To ASSE'NT.

Atterbmry.

[cffirvio, Lat.]

a.

ferve, help, or fecond.

[aJjfenfuSf'L^X.']

confirm the fame.

1;.

Asse'ssion. H./

Hbakefp, Hen. VIII.
Faith is the ajivt to any prcpofition, njt thus
made out by the deduflion of reafon, but upon
L.cke.
the credit of the propol'cr.
All the arguments on both fides mud be laid
understanding
the
in balance, and, upon the whole,
Locke.
determine its ajftnt.

To hard aj/iiyt unfit, unfure at need,,

.

dogmatical ; peremptory.

A com-

Without the king's tijfml or knowledge.

1 he men he preil but late,

this manner aJSy m» t

.

Tliey had heard, by fame.
Of this fo noble and fo fair ajfcmhlyf
This night to meet here.

And ftrove to mailer foirowful oJJay<, Fairy S^uftn.

MUtm.

Asse'rtive. a<^'. [from ajh-t.] Pofitive;

pany met together.

1.

The aft of aflerting.
If any affirm the earth doth move, and wilt
not believe with us it dandeth ftill, becaufe he
hath probable rcafons for it, and I no infallible
fenfe or reafon againlt it, I will not quarrel with
Brcvjns Vulgar Errours*
his afjertion.

It is

You wrought to be a legate.

"Etc thou of Ifracl's fceptre get fad hold,

1.

2. Pofition advanced.

Duniel.

As s e'm B L y

She heard with patience all unto the end.

To Assa'y. ai. a. [rjfayer, Fr.]
To make trial of i to make experiment
I

Asse'rtion. n.f. [from ajfert.^

Thmfon.
{affembler, Fr.]

Such troops of citizens to come to him.
Sbaifff.
To meet together.
Thefe men ajfcmiled, and found Daniel praying.

hardfhip.

What I foretel thee, many a hard ajjay
Of dangers, and advet lities, and pains,

In the dark dungeon of the limbs confin'd,
or own its heav'niy kind.
Drydtn,

/IJfcrt the native Ikies,

1

To Asse'mble. "v.n.

The firft entrance upon any thing ; a

to declare pofitively.

to vindicate a title to.
;
Nor can the groveling mind.

ufed both of perfoiis and things.

By no affjy of reafon.

;

Among th' ajjirtdrs of free reafon's claim,

gether the difperfed of Judah.
Ifa'wh, li. I2.
He wonders for what end you have ajjimhled

Fahy Shteen»

DryJn,

To affirm
3. To claim
2.

Our natijn's not the lead in worth or fame. ViyJk

And he (hall fet up an enfign for the nations, and
dxMaJpmbU the outcafts of Ifrael, and gather to-

tafte for trial.
For well he weened, that fo glorious bait
Would tempt his gueft to take thereof a/fay.

Your forefathers have ajjferted the party wbich
they chofe till death, and died for its defence.

With unaft'efled grace, or walk the plains
With innocence and meditation join'd

To bring together into one place.

trial.

[ajfere, Lat.]
maintain ; to defend either by
words or aftions.

To

tainer ; vindicator ; fupporter ; affirmer.

To ASSE'MBLE.

as two words, ]

Inlaw. The examination of meafures
snd weights ufed by the clerk of the
Cmveil.
market.

1.

The ftate of being afTembled.
O Hartford, fitted or to (hinc in courts
In foft affemhlaz't liften to my fong

according to the writing ; but the fenfes
now differing, they may be confidered

'Tis a pageant,
To keep us in falfe gaze.
Sbatttjpeare*

To ASSE'RT. v. a.

generally, ot'perfons.
All that we amafs together in our thoughts is
pofitive, and the ajftmblage of a great number of

who violently affaults another.

3.

to obtain.]

Their arguments are but precarious, and fubfift
upon the charity of our ajfenimeais.
Biorx<Ki Vulgar ErrourSt

ajfe-

A colleftion ; a number of individuals
brought together. It differs from affembly, by being applied only, or chiefly,
to things ; affembly being ufed only, or

1.

fent.

Diil.

aft of obtaining.
By the canon law, a perfon, after he has been in
full polTeflion of a fecond benefice, cannot return
again to his firll ; becaufe it is immediately void
ylylijfe^s Parergon.
by his ajficuti-m of a fecond,
Asse'mblace. «./. \ajjimblage , Fr.]

By ftcel ajfiullcd, and by gold betray'd.
Drydtn.
Assa'ulter. n.f. [from <7^«//.] One

2.

Lat.]

yaffiHatie,

Assecu'tion.

And double death did wretched roan invade.

Examination ;

JVocd'ward on Fajfils.

in twenty.

Assecta'tion. n.f,

New curfcd fleel, and more accurfcd gold.

1.

An officer

of the mint, for the due trial of filver,
appointed between the mafter of the
mint and the merchants that bring
Coiuell.
filver thither for exchange.
The fmeltets come up to the affayert within one

Gave raifchief birth, and made that mifcfaief bold

ing to the found, and the

to endeavour.
David girded his fword upon his armour, and
be effayed to go, for he had not proved it.
I San. xvii. 39.

Lat.]

[affintatio,

Compliance with the opinion of another
out of flattery or diflimulation.
Dia.
Asse'ntment. «./. [from a^n/.] Con-

;

Assa'yer. n.f. \ixam ajfay.^

Drydm.

AJfauh his ears.

To try

3.

A violent kind of injury of-

fered to a man's perfon.
It may be
committed by offering of a blow, or by
a fearful fpeech.
Ccnveli.
6. It has ujioa before the thing afTaulted.

To «pply to, as the touchftone In aj/ay- Asikhta'tion. n. /.

1.

Lccke.

pofition.

5. In law.

ASS

ASS

ASS

D'tii.

Asse'ssment. n.f. [from To ajfefs."]
The fum levied on certain property.
1

The aft of aflieffing.

2.

What greater immunity and happinefs cin
there be to a people, than to be liable to no laws,
but what they make themfelves ? To be fubjedt
to no contribution, aj'effkent, or any pecuniary
levy whatfoevet, but what they vote, and voluntarily yield

I.

HcwcU

unto themfelves ?

Asse'ssor, n.f.

The perfon

[rjpjfcr, Lat.]

that

fits

by another ; ge-

nerally ufed of thofe whoaffift the judge.
Minos, the ftri£l inquifitor, appears j

And lives and crimes, with his aJTeffors, hears

:

Round in his urn the blended bails he rowls,
Abfolves the juft, and dooms the guilty fouls.
DrydrKt

1.

He that fits by another as next in dignity.

To his Son,
Th' afftjjor of his throne, he thus began. Mi/lor,
Twice ftronger than his fire, who fat above,
ylje^/ir to the tiuoae ef

Uiuad'ting Jove.

Dryd.
3.

He

ASS
3.

ASS

A S S

He that lays taxes ; derived from af-

To mark out

I .

bealh ; for their excrements are ever liquid, and

to appoint.

;

their flelh generally more dry.

He affigned Uriah unto a place where be knew
A'sSETS. n.f. luithout the Jingular. [ajjiz,

Goods fufficient to difcharge that
burden, which is caft upon the executor
Fr.]

"t^he two armies were affigned to the leading o(
two generals, bod) of them rather cocrtiers afi'urc^
Bacon.
to the ftate, than martial men.

Boah joining.
As joined in injuries, one enmity
Againn a f .e by doom exprefs affign'd us.
Milton.
That cruel ferpent.
True quality is negUQed, virtue is oppreffed,

or heir, in fatisfyirT the teilators or
Whoever
anceftors debts or legacies.

pleads ajjits, fayeth nothing ; but that
the perfon, againll whom he pleads, hath
enough come to his hands, to difcharge
what is in demand.
Cowell.
1 'V. a. [aje^ero, Lac]
To ASSE'VER.
?!? Asse'verate. 3 To affirm with great
folemnity, as upon oath.

and vice triumphant.

There

Ray on the Creation*

A'ssHEAD. n.f. [from afs and head.'\ One

Tilers, are often halfwitted people.

Government of the Tongue,

In fummer, you fee the hen giving herfelf
greater freedoms, and quitting her care for above
twojiours together j but in winter, when the rigour of the feafon would chill the principles of
life, and deftroy the youog one, /he grows more
her attendance, and (lays away but
half the time.
Addtjm.

ejfiduou: in

Each ftill renews her littk labour,

Boylt.
it

affiduoajly itimei

Beni.'ey.

To Assi'ece. -v. a. [aj/ieger, Fr.]
ficge.

and ex-

To be-

Obfolete.

Dia.

On th' other fide th' ajieged ca/lles ward
Their fterlfaft arms did mightily maintain. Spenf.

jlSSIKNTO. n. f.

[In Spanifh, a concontr.^ft or convention between the king of Spain and
other powers, for furnilhing the Spanilh
dominions in America withnegioflaves.
To ASSI'GN. V. a, [aj^zisr, f r. ajigno,
Lit.}
traft or bargain.]

A

texture,

till

it

becomes like the
Nenvton.

Assi'milateness, n.f. [from ajjimilate.^
Likenefs.

Dill.

Assimila'tiom. «./.

\ixO'ai ajjimilate.

The aft of converting any thing to the
nature or fubftance of another.

1.

of nououtward emollients that make
the parts more apt to alTimilate. Bacon's Nat, UiJ},
It furthers the very aft of affimdation

rifiiment, by fomc

2.

The ftate of being affimilated, or becoming like fomething elfe.
A nuurilhment in a large acceptation, but rot
in propriety, conferving the body, not repairing it

by ojjtthilationi but preferving it by ventilation.
Bronvns Vulgar Errours,
'

.

is as well the inilinO as duty of our natuie,
to afpire to an affnidation with God j even the
mo(( laudable and generous ambition.

it

South.

Decay of Pietyt

To Assi'mulate. f. a, [a£!mulo, Lat,]

rally of love appointments.

To feign to counterfeit.
Diil.
AssiMUL a'tion. n.f. [aj^mulatio, hat.']

The lovers expected- the return of this rtated
hour with a*i much impatience as if it had been a

To ASSrST. 'v.

;

real afftgnati^n*

;

A diffembling

SfniJatir.
.

Or when a whore, In her vocation,

A making over a thing to another.
Assign ee'. «./. [aj^gne, Fr."] He that

is he whom the
law makcth fo, without any appointCoiucll.
ment of the perfon.
Assi'cNER. n.f. [from a^^».] He that

thing to

Rom. xvi. 2,
neceflary and affjihg to all our other in,
Locke,

Assi'stance. n. /. [cij/ifiance, French.]
Help furtherance.
;

The council of Trent commends recourfe, not
only to the prayers of the faints, but to their aid
and afffance: What doth this aid and affiflanct

You

.»

Stillingfieet.

have abundant

Ap-

knowWakes Prep, for Death.

affijiances for this

ledge, in excellent books.

Let us entreat this neceflary affijiance, that by
his grace he would lead us.

another

Rogers,

Assi 3TANT. adj. [from ajfijl.'] Helping;
lending aid.
Some perchance did adhere to the duke, and
were affiftant to him openly, or atleaft underhand.

The only thing which maketh any place publick, is the publick affignment thereof
duties.

aj/ijlo,

Acquaintance with method will affji one in
ranging human affaires.
JVatts's Logick,
She no fooner yielded to adultery, but fhe agreed
to cffjl in the murder of her hufband.
Broome on the Odyffey,

fignify

propriation of one
thing or perfon.

Diff^

Fr.

[ajijler,

a.

tellc^ual faculties.

appoints.

Assi'gnment. »./. [from a^^n.]

a counterfeiting.

To help.

Lat.]

It is

is appointed or deputed by another to
do any aft, or perform any bufmefs, or
enjoy any commodity.
And an ajjigaee
may be either in deed or in law ; ajjigtiee
in deed, is he that is appointed by a

peribn ; ajjignce in law,

;

Receive, her in the Lord, as becometh faints,
and ajjiji her in whatfoever bufinefs Ihe hath need.

Swift.

aj/lduous.]

The habitable earth may have been perpetually

its

denfe earth.

Assigna'tion. n.f. [fl^^na//o«, French.]
ufed gens1. An appointment to meet

and the magazine of our ft-rcngth. Decay of Piety,

""^n-

the drier, feeing it
haufted by the fcas.

changing

Co^vell.

The gofpel is at once the aff.gncr of our taHts,

that of glafs-

moift nouriihment eafily

latt their nourirtiment j

the

Prior.

Diligently ; continually.
The trjde, that obliges artificers to be offidmujly

Milton,

Hence alfo animals and vegetables nyay afftmi-

2.

To weary him with my c^iducut cries.
Milf.n.
The mod affiduoui talebearers, and bittereil re-

is

how

Keeps pnniflual to an affignatton.

IncefTant I could hope to change the will
Of him who all things can, I would not ceafc

tonverfant with their materials,

fliew

that it ftreamed by connatural
and emanation from God ; {o that there
was no inflant affignahU of God's eternal cxillence, in which toe vorl<l did not alfu co-exiA.

fiogtru

Nor juftles hrr affiduoui neighbour.
Assi'puousLY. adv. [from

to

Ariftotle held

ASSI'DUOUS. adj. [aj/lduui, Lat.] ConAant in applicatioa.
And if by pray'r

Tafting concodt, digeft, ajjimilate^

And corporeal to incorporeal turn.

refalt

tion.

ufe to corrupt us.

is

ally the wafte is committed.

Diligence ; dofenefs of applica-

1 have, with much paint and ajfuiuity, qualified
myfclf for a numenclator.
jidd'tjln.
Can he, who has undertaken this, want convision of the neccffiiy of his utmoll vigour and
ejpduily to acquit himfelf of it ?
Rogen.
We obfcrve the addrefs and ajjiduity they wl!

To tiirn to its own nature by digeftion.

2.

Assi'gnable. adj. [froma^^w.] That
which may be marked out, or fixed.

AssiDu'iTY. n.f. [affiduili, Fr. ajjiduitas,
Lat. ]

the ceflbr,

plaintiff had cefled, or given over ; to
affign wafte, is to lliew wherein efpeci-

Notes on the Odyjfey.

Sbak, Ham,

barifm and ferinenefs.
HaU^
They are not over-patient of mixture ; but
fuch, whom they cannot off.mHatej foon find it
thei'rjntercH to remove.
Stvift^

Licke.

[In law.] In general, to appoint a deputy, or make over a right to another ;
in particular, to appoint or fet forth, as
to aj/tgn error, is to ihew in what part

afflgn

words, and agrees better with the vehemence of
the fpeaker in making his ajfiveraticn.

flow of apprehenfion ; a blockhead.
Will you help an ajthead, and a coxcomb, and

ealily affimilate at leall the next generation to bar-

fettled

of the procefs error is committed; to
affign falfe judgment, is to declare how
and where the judgment is unjuft ; to

The repetition givej a greater emphafis to the

a knave, a thin-fjccd knave, a gull ?

no

another.

3.

ledion ; and therefore fuch bold ajfcveraticnt, as
in him were admirable, Jhould, in your mou;hs,
but argue raAincfs.
Hmttr.
Another abufe of the tongue I might add ;
vchemcr.t ajjeverations upon flight and trivij! oc^

Bro-jtr.e't

To bring to a likenefs, or refemblance.
A ferine and neceflitoos kind of life would

1.

value in any thing, as to make any affigned quantity of it conftantly worth any affigned quantity of

Solemn affirmation, as upon oath.

cafions.

is

Bacon's Natural Hijiory,

To Assi'milate. f. a.

2.'Ta fix with regard to quantity or value.
fuch intrinfick, natural,

more finely, and

aff.ntilate

fecerneth more fubtciy.

every one a ftation fuitable to his chara£ler,

Assevera'tion. tt.f. [from ajfe'verate.'\
That which you are perfuaded of, ye have it
no otliepvifc than by your own only probable col-

caufe their fleih doth

The laft day will aJJ'.gn to
ylddifor.

Bacon's Nat. Hift.

Birds be commonly better meat than hearts, be-

1 Sam. xi. 16.

that valiant men were.

uata fuch
Hooker.

Hale's Common Laiu of England,
For the performance of this work, a vital or

This in^itution, which afligns it to a perfon,
whom we have no rule to know, isjuft as good as
an affignment to no body at all.

direftive principle feemeth to be affjlant to the
corporeal.
Crew^

Locke.

Assimilable, adj. [ from ajjimilate. ]
That which may be converted to the Assi'sTANT. »,/. [from aj/i/.]
fame nature with fomething elfe.

1 .

The fpirits of many will fii'd but naked habitations ;

meeting no affimilahln wharein to re-adi
Broiun's Vulgar Erroun.

Some young towardly noblemen or gentlemen
were ufually fent as affiflantsot attendants, accord,

To ASSI'MILATE. v. n. [dftmilo, Lat.]

To perform the aft of converting food
Birds affimilaie

tefs,

ing to the quality of the perfons.

2.

and excern morCj than

auxiliary or minille-

rial.

their natures.

to nourifhment.

A perfon engaged in an affair, not as
principal, but as

Bacon,

Sometimes it is perhaps only a fofter
word for an attendant.

A^^
T'hf >il! affiflnnis on each oth'er'(!.w'd,

'

^lthg«,»ing mouths for ilfuing wordt prefir'd.
Drydai.

•

-

'

ASSr?E, ^./. lajpji, a fittirt|; Fr.]
i'r An aircmbly of knights ari3f other fub•

_.,jliu>uaj «n(;n,

tli« IjaiUff.or jajUcie,

''in" a 'certain place,' and
timo.
c. 'A jury.

are tal^en.

-

To fubjeft to

Heoier.

•

Meafure of

price or rate.
1'hus it is faid, lutien
'wheat is of fuch a price, the bread Jhall

Self-denial it a kind of holy ajiniatior \yith
God j and, by making you his partner, lnter,clh
you in all his happincfs.
BiiyU.

Right and left, as parts infervicnt unto the moby degrees from ufe
and aJjutJaSi'tm,- or according wliereto the one
grows (Irongcr.
Src^ns l^algar Errcuru

Partnerlhip.

tive faculty, arc differenced
'

y}Jfociati:n of ideas is

of great importance, and

may be of ejcellcnt ufe.

ff^ails.

5. Appofition ; union of matter.
The changes of corporeal things are to be placed
only in the various feparations, and new aJJ'odotkni
and motions, of thcfe permanent particles. Ncwtm.

7. Meafure ; for which we now \x{e.fix.e.
On high hill's top 1 faw a llately frame,».'j

An hundred cubits hij^h by jutt tf^xf,

Asivs'TVDS.. n.f, [ajsietttdo. Lit.]
them lofe the force to hurt.

A'ssoNANCE, n.f.

Re\affonance, Fr.]
ference of one found to another refembling it. Refemblance of found. Dicl.

writ.

A'ssoNANT. adj. \affonant, Fr.J Sounding in a manner refembling another

Assi'zERjOr Assi'sER. n.f. [from a£ize.']
Is an officer that has the care and overfight of weights and meafures. Chamb.
Asso'ci AB E. adj. [aj/ociaiilis, Latin.]
That which may be joined to another.
[

To ASSU'ME. V, a. laffumo, Lat.]

found.

[ajhcier. Fr.]

A fearful army led by Caius Marcius,

Upon our territories.

and ranged.
To Asso't. -v. a. [from^/o/ ;

1.

Shakespeare.

To adopt as a friend upon equal term'.

To infatuate

AJJituaic in your town a. wand'rin^ train.

ufe.

And Arangers in your palace entertain. Dryden.
3. To accompany,; to Ite.cp company with
another.

,

.

to befot :

;

.''

To unite

4.

;

',

•

ajjict-

ByU.

It has generally the particle tvith ; as,

he njfociated nvith his mailer's enemies.

TV Asso'ciATE. "J. n. To unite himfelf;

not fafe too

been formed.]

tenders to reafon, prove tliemfelvcs

To mitigate

To appcafe

2.

;

to pacify.

Yet is his hate, his v-nc ur, ne'er the lefs,
Since nought I'jjkaveth malice when 'tis told.
Fairfax.
.

This was ncceflary for the fccuring the pc^pe
from their fears, capable of being ajfua^ei by no
other means.

iver.

'

%

-

'\

S'lirty.

3.

A companion
equality.

;

implying fome kind of

The rcgil (torn ui:(lroy >
Dryien'sAthkn,
as, the medicine affnagts
;

To eafe
pain.

fenfe ; an accomplice in ill.
Their dci'end:r, and h\i affeciates, h:iTe fithencc
yrnpofcJ to the wjrld a form fuch as thcmfelvcs
}hoker.

t* tjfua^c

Their brutal rage.

A confederate, in a good or neutral

Jilce.

ClarendMt.

Shall I,

Tl ey pcrfuade the king, now in old age, to
make PUngut his aff.uau Im govcrumcht -.vith

To Assua'ce. %<. n.

To abate.

Gnd male a wind to pais over the earth, and
.

the waters /T^ifl^r*/.

Gtn. v\'\\.

1.

Assu'a'cem ENT. n.f. \Uoxa affuage.\ Mitigation i

abatement of evil.

But can thcfc high ajjumers, and pre-

h?

Scutb,

Arrogant ; haughty.

AMiS«n.

With thcic fucccHes.
Milton.
•Asso'ciATE. n.f. [from the verb.]
J. A pei^bn joined with another ; a part-

5.

;

And kindly warmth difarms the winter's rage.

federate ; joined in intered or purpofe.
While 1 defccnd through daricncfs
To my fl/T-jriafs pow'rs, them to acquaint

.'

\s%v'},iitic. participial adj. [from ajfufite.]

to foften ; to allay.
Refieihing winds the fummer's heats ajjuage.

to join himfelf.

h'.m.

To Assu'me. •:;. n. To be arrogant; to
claim more than is due.

Skinner imagines afpa;j-an nilglit have
1.

Asso'ciATE. adj. [from the verb.] Con-

2.

Spettfer.

priate.
His mijefty might well ajfumc the complaint
and cxpicliion of king David.
Clarcr.diJt,

:

Sijmc oleaginous particles unperceivedly

'

Byle.

own ufe;. to appro-

To ASSUA'GE. 'V. a. [The derivation of
Assu'mer. n.f. [from ajjhmc.'] An arroMinjhe--iv dethis word is uncertain
gant man ; a man who claims more than
duces it from adfuadere, or affuaviare
his due.
Junius, from fpa-y, fweet ; from whence
Can man be wife in any courfe, in which he is

to join.

tueJ ih;mfclves to it.

5.

In every hypothefis, fomething it allowed to be

f

,Shaktjjttare.

_

To fuppofe fomething granted without
proof.

affoter,

But whence they fprung, or how they were begot,
Uneath is to afiiirc, uncath to weenc
That monftrous errour which doth fome ajfot.

..

Drxdittt

juflly.

affumed.
Fr.]
a word out of 5. To apply to one's

Fi>ends ibould <7^iarr friends in grief and woe.

Py>e«

To arrogate; to claim or fcize un-

4.

A mafs or quantity properly felefted

2.

y^iVd/f^ with Aufidius, rages
.

Ajlumfs the God,
Affedls to nod.
And feems to (hake the fphcrcs.

3.

Asso'rtment. n.f, [from fl^rt.]
1. The adl of claffing or ranging.

Lat.]
I. '1^0 unite with another ks a confederate.
'

This \vhen the various god had urg'd in vain.

He Rrait ajfum'd his native form again.
2. To take upon one's felf.
With ravilh'd cirs
The monarch h^ars,

DiSl.

ther.

affacie,

,

To take.

1.

To Asso'rt, "v. a. \affortir, Fr.] To range
in clafles, as one thing fuits with ano-

I.

a.

Baccn't Nal, Hi/it

.

With hundred pillars.
Spcrtjer.
!7fl Assi'zE. fu. a.
[from the Aoun.]
To
fix the rate of any thing by an aj[}ixe or

Ti ASSO'CIATE. -v..

Ac-

cuftomance ; cuftom ; habit.
Wefcc that ii^irti«f; of things hurtful, doth make

;

,

[a^utfacio, hiX."]

The (late of being accuftomed to any
thing.

4. Conneftion.

be ofj'ucb aflize.

;

Nor by my will ajjutj.tgate his merit,
By going to Achilles.
Sbakejf:are,

Ih^ier.

ji

Diyi.

not in ule.
This valiant lord

Mud not fo (late his palm, nobly acquir'J

,

For (lioft-vl'ho wake, !l^d thsfe who deep.

:

AssUEFA'cTtON. tt.f.

they fectttjy^ehteied into a league of aj/idaiien.

Si6.

Pifc's St. Cariihrn

This coiild not be done but with mighty op[ioCtibn: againll which to ftrcngtlien themfelves,

'
y.
t
TJK- judging God /hall clofe the boolf. of fyxc,
there
Anil
the lad a^f! keep,
.

tumultuous joys arife,

To Assu'biwcats. V. a.WubJHgo, Lat.]

Confederacy ; union for particular purpofes, good or ill.

2,

A

.

It in the1>rea(l

Mufick her foft a£aaf.'Jt voice fupplic^.

'

'

6. Ajpxt hf bread; ale,

ing ; mitigating.

i

,

Any court pfjoiUce,

'

pacifies -or appeafes.

1 he church being a foctct)-, hath the fclf-fanic
which other politick focietits

'

5.

Sffvjir'i S'trrretu

•

Assua'sivb. adj. [from ajiut^e."] Soften-

have; the natural inclination which all men have
unto fociablelife, and confcnt to fome certain bon
o{ ojjhciatiov; which bond ts the law that appoinicth what kind of order they (hould bq aJ/'o:u"e<l in.

.

'

'

AssuA'een'. *./ [from «^^*.i One who

original grounds,

Catvcll.
'^ic law wi^ i)«y<ir executeil by any jul'ticc;. of
.,.4|^^;lwtU>e]>c9^cJe(c't»tJicir »u-n laws.
'
Vavies OH Ir^Untii.
M'T
At each «//r« and term we try
...
thon'and i^f»;als of as deep a d)e,,,./?jry(^^«v.
,

Dut all my days in pining languor fpend,
Without litpc ai affua^nntr.t or rcledfe.

;

-

Ptfi's OJyffiy.

.

1

The court, place, or time, where and
>v'tieti, the writs and proceflVs (^ a^ze

,,

Tell me, when Aall thefe weary waet tiarecnd.
Or (hali their ruthlcis torment ntier ccafc,

Impatient.

j. 'All ordinance or ftatate.
j^.

He was accompanied with a noble gentleman,
no unfuilable alJiciatt.
ffattr..
Sole Eve, ajWuit folc, to me, beyond
Compare, above all Hving creatures dean MHim.

Associa'tion. It,/. Ifrom afficiale.y
Union ; conjunction ; focicty.
1

cenain

at a

A s ^

But iny tfficutci now my ftaydeplnrc,
.

with

A S S

His haughty looks, and his a[/umtrg air.
Dryden*

The fon of Ifis cnuld no longer bear.

This makes him over-forward in bufinefs, aj'
fumivg in convcrlatior, and peremptory in anfwers.
C-Ml,r.

ASSUMPSIT, n.f {affamo, Lat.] A voluntary promifc made by word, whereby a man takcth upon him to perform
or pay any thing to another ; it contains any verbal promife made upon
confideration.

Co^mcII,

.Assu'm PTION. II. f. \aff:implio, Lat.}
1 . The ad of taking any thing to one's felf.
The perfnnal dtfccnt of God tiiml'i, and his
more famiwas ^u enforcement beyond ali methods of wifdom.
liammwiSi iuniamnittn.

eff..mpn<:n of our fl.lh to his divinity,
liarly to infinuale liis plrafure to us,

5

a.

The

2.

ASS

The fuppofition, or aft of fuppoSng, of
any thing without further proof.

If you iliouU die before him, where'j her dower ?

^n afjuran;e being paffed through for a competent line, hath caine back again by reafon of fome

Thefe by w.iy of a//itiTtj,ih>i, unJer the two ge-

The thing fnppofed

a poilulate.
;
Hold, fays thcS.^ick, )oMt RffuKfU'jn'i Wrcing':
I gtaiiT, crue -I'^ei'jni-you k«ve well defin'd. DrydForrfie jJ^umptUrty that Chrid di fuch miiacu-;
lous iqJ fupernatura) works to confirm what he
faid, we need only repeat the rneflage fent by him'
'

oVerllghr.

'.

;

,

,*-'-'.

to Joh;i the Bartift.

4. The taking up any perfon into heaven,
which is fuppofed by the Roraifli Church

of the Blefle Virgin.
Upan rf-.i .^cali of the ajjfuwptkn of the BlefTed
!

This pomp, a Hiame to you, a pride ro me.

St'tlUngjiett,

after a

certain period of years,

And, from fome knowledge and nfflirance of you,
Shakef^care' i King Lear.
We have as great ajfurance that there is a God,
could
as we
expeQ to have, fuppofing that he were.
1 1 .

'

Tlijugh hopr be, indeed, a lower and fclTcr'
thing thar. ajfuriinccy yet, as to aii the purpofesof a
pioiij life, it may prove

moie i.vful,

Sawh.

Wr;at encouragement c^.. bt t^ivcn to goodnefi,
beyond the hopes of heave j, and the ajjitratici of a
er.Ilefs felicity ?

TilLtfon.

2. Secure confidence ; truft.
What
is be that boat>5 of flelbly might,

Faiy S^.

Againft fpiritual foct, yields by and by.

Freedom from doubt;

.3.

know-

certain

TiUotfon.
men to avoid a greater.
[In theology.] Security with refpeft
to a future ftate ; certainty of acceptance with God.
See Insu13. The fame with /»/«r/i»«.

rance.

outgrow all

tiieir

doubts and ignorances,

fuafion pafs into knowledge, and
vance into aJJ'urarct,

till

pcr-

\affeurer, Fr. from af-

low Latin.]
1. To give confidence by a firm promife.
So when he had affured them with many words
J'ecurare,

that he would reilote them without hurt, according to the agreement, they let him go for the fjv-

2 Mac. xii.

ing of their brethren.
2.

•Tis far off.

And rather like a dream, than an aj/irancc
That my remembrance warrants. Shjk. Tcmftfi.
The obedient, and the man of pia£lice, Ihall

To fecure to another

; to make firm.
So irrefiftible sm authority cannot be refle^ed
on, without the moft awful reverence, even by
thofc whofe piety ajfurei its favour to them. Rogers.

To make confident

3.

;

to

exempt from

doubt or fear ; to confer iecurity.
And hereby we know, that we arc of the truth,

knowledge adSouth.

Hath he found, in an evil courfe, that comfortable ajfuranu of God's favour, and g ;jd ho^ :s cir

and Ihall ii^iiMOurheartsbefoiehim. iyotn,'s\\, 19.

his future condition, wliic^ a religious life would

At this laft fight ; aJJ'ur'd that man (hall live
With all the creatures, and their feed perfcrve.

have given him ?

1

Tilhtjon.

Men whofe confidera'.inn will relieve our mo-

Too make fecure

4.

My behaviour,
comfort;

my

6.

Converfatiun, when they

7.

come into the world,

knowledge and ojpir^nce.

Locke,

Ground of confidence ; fecurity ; fufficient reafon for truft or belief.
The nature of defire itfelf is no eafier to receive
belief, than it is hard to ground belief; for as de.
fire is glad to embrace the firft /hew of comforr,
fo is defire defirous of prrt'eii ajfurance,

'Ihij aiviner laid claim to me, called me Dromio, fwore t was esjfured to her.
Shjkejfieure,

Assu'red. participial adj. [fromo^rf.]
Certain ; indubitable ; not doubted.

1

It is an ajiired experience, that flint laid about

the bottom of a tree makes it profper.

2. Certain ;

That I did fo, when I was firft ajjlr'd.
Sbakejpearg's King fohn.

{o the pope's donation to the Irifli fubmiflions were

As when by night the glafs

but weak and fickle ujfurarcei.
Daviei on Ireland.
None of woman born

Imagin'd lands and regions in the moon.

Hbakejfeare.
I

m'f

And,
She i> I

'

.

" ' f

vTir offer ij the bed;
'.e

make her the aj^urance^
you muft pardon mej

Immodeft ;

3.

Milton.

vitioufly coiifident.

Assu'redlv. ad'x'.

\jivom. aJJ'ured.'\

Cer-

tainly ; indubitably.

They promls'd me eternal happincfs.
And brought me garlands, OrifRth, which I feel
I

Lat.]

\ttjierifmus,

n.j'.

A conftellation.
Poetry had

filled

the (kics with aji'rifms, and'
them ; and the..' aflrology

hlftories belonging to

am not worthy yet to wear

;

B-nt ley's Scrmoru
2.

An afteriflc, or mark.

This is a very

improper ufe.
Uwcll particularly on pafTages with an ajler'iftn
for the obfcrvat'.ons which follow fi.ch a note, will

DryJen's Dufrejnoy,

give you a clear light.

Asie'rn. adv. [from a and _/?cr».]
the hinder part of the

ftiip ;

Ir»

behind the

(hip.

The galley gives her fide, and turns her prow.
While thofe afiern, defcending down the ftcep.
Thro' gaping waves behold the boiling deep. Dryd.

To Aste'rt. v. a. [a word ufed by Spenfer, as it feems, iorjtart, or fiarile.]
terrify ; to ftartle ; to fright.

To

We deem of death, as doom of ill defert
But knew we fools what it us brings until.
Die would we daily, once it to expert;
No danger there the (hepherd can ajlert.

A'sTHMA.

».

/.

[ao-S/xa.J

Spenfcr,

Afretjucnt,

diflicult, and fliort refpiration, joined
with a hiffing foond and a cough, efpecially in the night-time, and when the
body is in a prone pofture ; becaufe
then the contents of the lower belly
bear fo againft the diaphragm, as to
leflen the capacity of the breaft, whereby the lungs have lefs room to move.

^incy.
An BJihma is the inflation of the membranes of
the lungs, and of the membranes covering the
Floyer on the humours,
mufcles of the thorax.

AiTHUATictLi-.l adj. [from afihma.'\
Asthma'tick. 5 Troubled with an
afthma.
In ajlhmatical perfons, though the hings be
very much Huffed with tough phlegm, yet the patient may live £bme montlis, if not fome years.

After drinking, our horfes are moft ajlhmatick ^
and, for avoiding the watering of them, we wet
Floyer.
their hay.

Asto'nied. part. adj.

A Word ufed in

the vcrfionof the Bible ioiajhnijhed.

Many were afivnted at thee.

Ijaiah, lii. i^.

Unnanly dicad invades

Of Galilaco, lefs offur'd, obfervcs

Shall harm Macbeth.

But yet I'll ni;:kc etjfurance double furc.
And take a bond at fate; thou (halt not live.

not doubting.

Young princes, clol; your hands,
—And your lips too j for, I am vitII affured.

Sidney.

1.

Boyle.

Bacon's Natural Hi/lory,

As the conqueft was but llight and fuperficial,

—'J hen live, Macduff, what need I fear of thee ?

Sbakefp,

To afHance j to betroth.

5.

Suincy.

Freedom from vitious Ihame.
will add to their

In all my lands and leafes whatfoever.

ill

this laft afj'urame.

Sfenjer.

And, for that dow'ry, I'll ujj'urt her of
Her widowhood, t^e it that ftie fuivivcs me,

exemp-

governed, gave you the firft
atfeflion, ill hid, hath given you

with o/.

Or who can him affiire of happy day ?

Rogers.

5. Confidence; want of modefty ;
tion from awe or fear.

:

But what on earth can lung abide in ftate?

defty, and give us courage and ujptrana in the duties of our piofcflion.

revive

Mi/ton.

Firmnefs ; nndoabting ileadinefs.

4.

A'sTERisM.

devifes the feigned virtues and influenres of each.

12.

ledge.
Proof from the author!tyT)f man's judgment, is
not able to work that affurance, which doth grow
Hooker.
by a ilronger proof.

firll compared it with the
Hebrew, and noted by ajier'ijks what was defeilive,
Crew*
and by obelilks what was redundant.

Conviftion.

To Assu're. a/, a.

-

Which all fo f"on as it doth come to fight

:

He atfo puBliflied. the tranflation of the Septua-

Tlllolfon.

Such an aljurance of things as will make men
careful to avoid a leflirr danger, ought to awaken

mm

And vain ajfuraticcof moical'ty,

A mark itt

gint by itfelf, having

Offer this office.

.

\affurance, Fr.]

ftar; is ••

1

'

Certain expectation.

1.

See ASSUAGE.
[arte'""*®--]

printing or writing, in form of a little

Teftimony of credit.
am a gentleman of blood and^ breeding,

10.

would

[ajfumptevus, Lat.]

That is afTumed.
Ass; 'range. »./.

He that gives aflurance.
He that gives fecurity to mftke good

any lofs.
To ASSWA'GE:
A'sterisk. ?;./.

hammond.

clined to.

Wtii^.

Assc'mptive. adj.

Dryd.

of being aflured ; certainty.

'

have been rewarded with an affump:]on to eternal
felicity.

'

9. Sauguinenefs ; readinefs to hope.
This is not the grace of hope, but a good natural affarance or c 'ntidence, which Atiltocls obfervcs
youn^ men to be full of> and oW men not fo in-

Virgin, the pope and cardinals keep the vefpers.

Adam,

ftate

1 .

Arm'd with my CJurage, unconcern'd 1 fee

Sou'h.

South.

'

Assu'rer. >!./. [from c^«v.]
2.

Fearlefs without, becaufe fccure within ;

he will flop our lib^:ty, till we reftoie

Assu'redness. »./. [from ajiiied.'\ The

KnolUi.

With all tV ajjirance innocence can bring,

1

jiJJ'uredly

him his woiihif

Bacon.

'

Spirit ; intrepidity.
'fhey, like refolutc men, ftoQd in the face of
th^ breach witlnmofe ajpiravce than the wall itfelf.

-8,

'

'

God is abfolutely giod, and fo, effiirtj.y, th«
caufe of all that is good ; hut of any thing t!iat i»
Raleigh's Hifi. ofH'orld.
evil he is ho caufe at all.

Shakefpcare,

neral prop litions, a.Q incrmficaUy and nativ^llyi
gtod or bnJ.
^orrii<'

3.

AST

ASS

1 fllall affuredly.

S^akefl'eari.

The French a/lony'd.

J. Philips,

To ASTO'NISH. -v. a. [ejlomier, Fr. from
altmitui, Lat.] To confound with fome
fudden paffion, as with fear or wonder j
to amaze ; to furprife ; to ftun.
It is the part iif men to fi-ar and tremble.
When the moft mighty gotis, by tokens, fend

Such dreadful heralds to B^sBift us,

S^hukeffrare.
.^Jl.nijh'd

Afiomjh'i <t the voice, he Hood amai'd.
And all around with inward horror gaz'd* A^tJ'itu
A genius unlverfal as hit theme,
Ajiwtlh'w^ as chaos.
TBomfin.

between two rockj, that a man
upon both at oixce.

Astri'ferous.

Thij word

is

fendrth tears into the eyes.

AsTRTNCENcy.

To

/

».

Bainn.'.

[from aJfriMge.]

The power of comrafting the parts ot
the body ; oppofcd to the power of reAftriflion ^rohibiteth difTolution ; as, in medicines, afiringcnts inhabit putrcfaflion
and, by
ajlihgcncy, fomc frflall quantity of oil of vitriol
:

will ke:p frcUi water loiig from putrefying.'

'

A

" Bii^iCi Natural WJIory.

'

Atid, acrid, auftere, and

bitter fubftan^es, by'
their ajlr'wgeny, create Jiorroof, ftat W, IHmulale

!

or ankle-bone.]
little round meniber,jn the form of a ring or bracelet, ferv-

'-

•''.'

tlie fibres.

Astri'ncent.

ing as an ornament at the tops and bottoms of columns.
Builder's DiS.

'

adj.'

Arbuthnot.^

\_njfri>igens,

Lat.]

Binding; contrafting ; oppofed

to /a.v-

ufed fometimes of talles'
which feem to contraft the mouth.
ati've :

We fee none of that ordinary confufion, which

it

is

AJIrin^nl medicines arc binding, which aft by'
the afpenty of their particles, whereby they corru-

is the refult of ijiurter

rounds of the ajiragal, and
1 know not how many other intermingled particu-

membranes, and make tliem draw up;
clofcr.
^m.ji.l
The myrobalan hath parts of contrary natures,
gate

Sfeliclor.i

tlie

'

A'sTRAL. adj. [from a/?>-aOT, Lat.] Starry;
belonging to the ftars.
Some oftral forms I muft invtke by pray'r,

for it is fweet and yet ejirmgent,

Baiop.
The juice is very ajlrlngcni, an^ therefore of (To'w
motion.
Bacon's Natural Hiftcry.

(

Fram'd all of pnreft atoms of the air ;

_

What

Not in their natures fimply good or ill,

the right way.
May feem the wain was very avll led,

'

When fuch an one had guiding of the way,
Sperftr.

You run aflray, for whilft we talk of Ireland,
Through the heav'ns wide patdlefs way.
7*0 ASTRT'CT. 'V. a.

eonfiringe.

The folid parts were to be relaxed or ajlnlicd, ns

en-

for that rcafon a ftrength-

Dia.

ftars.

A'strolabe. n.f.

[of irig, and Xot.iiXt,

1.

Relating to aftrology.
Ajtrotogical prayers fscm to
go>Kl leafon as the prediftions.

me to be built on ai
StiUingftur,

The poetical fables are more ancient thin. the
afirfihgual inOiences, that were not known to tl,e
BenlUy,

AsTROLo'ciCALLY. adv. [from ajlrtlogy-'\

In an aftrological manner.

7» Astro'locize.
logy.'\

nj.

[from

n.

ajfra.

To praftife afliology.

ASTRO'LOGY. H.f.

[ajirologia, Lat.]

The praftice of foretelling things by
the knowledge of the liars ; an art

now

generally exploded,

and

as

irrational

falfe.
1 know the learned think of the art of ajlrolegy,
that the ftars do not force ihe aftions or wilU of

mch.

Stvi/t.

Astro'nomer, n./. [from Sr^ov, a ftar,
and ion©-, a rule or law.] One that
ftudies

the

motions, r.nd the

celeftial

tules by which they are governed.

The motions of faClionj under kings ought ta
be like the motions, as the afironomert Ipeak of, in
the inferioar orbs.
Bac(,n.
Aftrcncmeri no longer doubt of the motion of the
planets about the fun.
Locke,

The old and ticw ajfronomers in vain
Attempt the heav'niy motions to explain.
BlarJttrfore^

Astrono'mical. ladj. [from a^ro/ior/ty.'\
Astrono'mick. j Belonging to aftro-

An inftrument chiefly ufed for taking

Our fjrefathers marking certain mutations to

the altitude of the pole, the fun, or ftars,,

happen in the fun's progrefs through the zod'ack,
th-y re^iftrate and fet them down in their aftronomical canons.
Brc-a.n't Vulgar Errouri.
Can he not pafs an aftrtmcmick line.
Or dreads the fun th' imaginary fign.
That he Aiouid ne'er advance to either po'e ?

at fea.
2.

DrydcK,
2.

nomy.

to take.]

To

contraft by applications, in oppofition'
to relax : a word not fo much ufcd as

perfpiration,

A'strocraphy. n.f. [from a-{5> and
y^u^u.l The fcience of defcribing the

Milton.

\aflringo, Lat.]

fenfible

ening and ajfringent diet often condoceth to this
pui^ofe.
Arbuthnot en jUhm-tn,

That knew not whether right he .went, or clfe

you rip up the original of Scotland, Spenjer on Jrct.
Like one that had been led aflray

diminifticth

crcafeth the infenfible;

DryJtn.\

Astra'y. adv. [from a a.i\dji,-aj.'\ Out of

,'

\.

Ifetion.

Who has not oft been binifli'd, or in chains.

Creeks till af:er Alexander the Great.

'

laxation.

[ar^ay<»^®>., the ankle'

ajiray.

warn ut from places of malign influence.
No ajirologkk wiiard honour gains.

'

Tears are cauicd by a contraflion of the fpirits
of. the brain j which contra3ioh, by confcquence,
ajlri^gnb the rooirt»rc of t^e btain, and thereby

Astra'ddle. ativ. [from a &t\Aj!railMe.y
With one's legs acrofs any thing. Dia.

But mofl fubfervient to bad fpirits will.

,

.

;

Thefe thoughts may ftartle well, but not afimind
The virtuous mind, that ever walks attended
By a ftrong fiding champion, confcicitcc Milnn.

lars.

I

parts draw together.

,.,,„„.

A'sTRACAi,. n./.

Dia.

/.

now fomewhat ob-

*i>'ete.

Lat.]

{a^rifer,

'

alloni/h ; to confound with fear or won-

der.

The twelve hotifes of heaven, in the form which
ajirohgiam ufe.
Camden.
The ftars, they fay, cannot difpofe
No more than can the aJInUgian,
Huiibrai.

B<yle.

Ast r I'c E ROUS, adji [afiri^Bf, Lai.J Car- Astrolo'gical. 7 J- re
,
¥'ology.-\
rying ftars.
>
I'^J- t*^""
DiB. As r ROLo'c c K
rffASTRl'NGE. ^. a. [ajlrhgo, Lat.] 1. Profefling aftrology.
Some feem a little aJlreUguat, as when tliey
To prefs by contraftion to make the

Amazement ; confvflon of mind from
fear or wonder.
,. ,, ,,.,; .1
We found, with no lefi wondef to,as than ejlatii/kment to themfelvts, that they wei-e the two valiant knd famous brothers.
Sidnij.
She efteemed this as much^bovc his wifdom,as
ajltmjhmirt is btyond bare Mlnuratipn>
Swib.
{eftonnO-, Fr.'\

adj,

may Rand afiridc

Bearing or having liars.

ASTO NISHINCNESS. «._/C [Uom aJfoHiJh.']
Of a nature to excite aflonifliment.
Asto'nishment. »./ [eflonniment, Fr.]

yi AsTo'uND. -v. a.

AST

A§ t

A S T

A ftereographick pxojeftion of the cir-i
cles of the fphere upon the plain of fome

great circle.

Chambers.

Astro'locer. n.f. [ajirolcgus, Lat. from

Blackmire,

Astrono'mically. adv.

[from ajlro-^
mmical.] In an aftronomical manner.
great quantities.
Arhuthmt en Al'mcnti. 1. One that, fuppofing the influences of
ASTRO'NOMY. n. f. [ir^ovo^;*, from
the ftars to have a caufal powc, profefles
AsTRi'cTiON. n.f. [aJ}ri3io, L?it.] The
arftf, a ftar, and op.®-, a law cr rule.]
to foretel or difcover events depending
aft or power of contrafting the parts of
A mixed m.ithematical fcience, teaching
on thofe influences.
the body by applications.
the knowledge of the celeftial bodies,
Not unlike that wliich aftrohgin call a conjuncAfirilihii is in a fubftancc that hath a virtual
their magnitudes, motions, diftances,
tion of planets, of no very benign alpcft thenncto
cold ; and it worketh partly by the fame means that
tlic other.
old doth.
IViiion.
periods, eclipfes, and order.
Bacon.
PythagoA happy genius is the gift of nature it depends
This virtue requlreth an aJiriSthn, but fuch an
ras taught that the earth and planets
on
the
influence
of
the
ftars,
fay the ajlrologers
on
afiridiim as is not grateful to the body for a pleafturn round the fun, which ftands imthe organs of the body, fay the naturalifts it is the
lag afiriaiofi doth rather bind in the nerv7s than
moveable in the centre. From the time
particular gift of heaven, fay the divines, both
expel them j and therefore fuch ajinSkn is found
chriftians and heaihens.
of Pythagoras, ajironcmy funk into neDrydcn.
in things oi a harfli tafte.
Bacon.
they let the humours pafs either in too fmall or too

u,T^o» and ^o'y©'.]j

-

_

:

;

;

;

Lenitive fubflances are proper for dry atrabilar'an conftltution?, who are fubjeft to ajirili'an of
the belly, and tlic piles.

AsTRi'crivE ad/.

Arbuihmt on Dili.

\Jiom aftriS.']

tick ; of a binding quality.

AsTRi'croRY. adj.

[ajiriaoriui,

Aftringent ; apt to bind.

Stip-

Dih.

AJIrolagtrs, that future fates fore/hew.

Pcpt.
never heard a finer fatire againd lawyers, tha«
that of a/fro/o^wj, when they pretend, by rules ot
art, to tell when a fuit will end, and whether to the
a Ivantage of the plaintift'or defendant.
S^vjt.
I

2. It was anciently ufed for

one that un-

Lat.]

derftood or explained the motions of the

Z)/V7.

planets, without including prediftion.

gleft, till it was revived by the Ptolemys, kings of Egypt and the Saracens
brought it from Atrica to Spain, and reftored this fcience to Europe. Chamhrs.
To this muK be add the undciftanding i.f the
;

:il

globei, and the principles .>f geometi y and ajironcmy.

Cvtcl y.

A worthy ajtrologrr, by perfpcdtive glafTes, hath A'sTROscopY.

Astri'dr. adv. [from a and Jlride.'\
With the legs open.
To lay their native arms afide.

found in the ftars many things unknown to the an-

Their modcfty, and ride aftrid,:
Uudihrm.
1 faw a place, where tiie Rhone it fo ihaiteiicd

Astroi.o'gian. ». /. [from ajlro'ogy.']
The fame with aji oltger.

cients.

.

Rale.gh.

cyttriu-,

«. /.

to view.]

[a.-\(,

ftar,

and

Obfervation of the

Dia.

ftars.

Astro-theology, n.f.
ftar,

a

and thealogia,

[from ajirum, a
divinity.] Divinity
founded

B^
^K

B

A T

fotnded on the obfervation of the celef-

eluded in the adjeftive ; we commonly
fay, at a minute, at an hour, on a day,
in a month.
We thought it at the very firft a llgn of cold

tial

bodies.

That the diurnal and annual revolutions are the
motions of the terraqueous globe, not of the fun, 1
flicw in the preface of

my j^fin-Theahgy.

afteifllon.

D^rbdfni Pbyji^o-Tbefthgy

To heap ingratitude on worthieft deeds.

Two indirefi lines, the further that they are
drawn out, the further they go a/under.

Paradife Lofi.

;

If tlut young Arthur be not goie already,
Bv'n ai this news he dies.
Shakrfp. King John.
Much at tlic fight was Adam in his heart
Difmay'd.
Mdt.ns Paradife Loft.

into nodules,

AsY LUM. n.f. [Lat. airvXit, from a., not,

1

difpropor-

The afymmeirles of the brain, is well as the deformities of the ie^s or face, may be
reaificd in
«""=•.
Grevi.

_

This term is fometiraes nfcd in mathematicks, for what is more ufually called

5. At, before a perfon, isfeldom ufed otherwife than ludicroufly ; as, he longed to

be at him, that is, to attack him.
6. At before a fubftantive fometimes fignifies the particular condition or circumftances of the perfon ; as, at peace, in a

incommenfurability ; when between two
quantities there is no common meafure.
A'svmptote. n. /. [from a, priv. a^,,
with, and efUu,, to fall ; which never

meet ;

Under pardon,

You are much more at talk for want of wifdom.
Than prais'd for harnilefs mildnefs.

Afymptotes are
right lines, which approach nearer
and
nearer to fome curve ; but which,

Hence walk'd the fiend at large in fpacious field.
Miltt,n.

The reft, for whom no lot is yet decreed,
May run in paftures, and at plcafure feci.

What

hinder'd cither, in their native foil,
A'. cAt to reap the harvert of their toil. Dryd. Fab.

Wile men are fometimes over-borne, when they
are taken at a difadvantage.
Collier of Confidence.

Gre'ji.

AsYMPTo'riCAL. adj. [From aj^mftou.]
Curves are faid to be afymptoiical, when
they continually approach, without a
poffibility of meeting.

Thefe have been the maxims they have been
guided by : take thefe from tiiem, and they arc
perfeOly at a lofs, their compafs and pole-ftar then
are gone, and their utiderftanding is perfeflly
at a
nonplus.
i^,ci,e.

„.

f. [i^i.S,r„, of a,
priv. and o-trA'w, to bind together.]
figure in grammar, when a conjunftion

One man manages fourhnrfcs at once, and leaps
from the back of another at full (peed.

A

Pc'jie't Effay on

copulative is omitted in a fentence
as,
;

At. prep,
1.

[are, Saxon.]
Jt, before a place, notes the
nearnefs
of the place ; as, a man is at the houfe
before he is in it.
This cullom continued among many, to
fay

Jhe.r prayers at fountains.

SiMrgfJ.

At, before a word fignifying time,
'"*

cocxiftence

event ; the word

Vol.

notes

of the time with the
titne is fometimes in-

Ihmeri Batilet.

They will rot let mc be at quiet in my bed, but
purfue me to my very dreams.
Swift.

in veni, 'vidi, •vici, CS" is left out.

At before a fulfllantive fometimes marks
employment or attention.

'.

Hale.

pro-

effeiS

Dryden.

Tom has been at the charge of a penny upoa
this occafion.

Addifon,

Thole may be of ufe, to confirm by authority
what they will not be at the trouble to deduce by
reafoning.
Arbutbmt.

At fometimes is nearly the fame as in,
noting fituation ; as, he was at the bottom, or top of the hill.
She hath been known to come at the head of

12.

thefe rafcals, and beat her lover.
I

Sivifc.

J. At fometimes marks the occafion, like
on.

Others, with more helpful care,
Cry'd out aloud. Beware, brave youth, beware t
At this he turn'd, and, as the bull drew near,
Shunn'd, and rcceiv'd him on his pointed fpear.

Dryden,

At fometimes feems to fignify ia the

poiuer of, or obedient to.
But thou of all the kings, Jove's care below.
Art lead at my command, and moft my foe. Dryd,
15. At fometimes notes the relation of a

man to an aftion.
He who makes pleafure the vehicle of health, is
a doftor at it in good earned.

Collier of Friendjhip.

At fometimes imports the manner of

16.

an aclion.
One warms you by degrees, the other fets you oi»
fire all

than the lead
ajfignable d,(Hnce, yet, being ftiU
produced infi-

Pope.

immediate

Reft in this tomb, rais'd at thy huiband's cof?.

Drydin's Virgil.

By thofe his former bounty fed. Vryd, Sl.Cacllia.

in

At marks fometimes the
ceeding from an aft.

at once, and never intermits his he.it.

Drydcn^s Fables,

Dcferted, at his utmoft ne.d.

rearer together, till they are nearer

JSr'NDETON.

moft
Bacon.

of the money will be in the box.

though
they and their curve were infinitely
continued, would never meet ; and
may be
conceived as tangents to their curves
at
an infinite diftance.
Chambers.
Afymptoie lines, though they may approach
ftill
nitely, will never meet.

Shakcfp.

It biingeth the treafure of a realm into
a few
for the ufurer being at certainties, and
others at uncertainties, at the end of the game

hands:

incoincident.]

fignifies

the houfe of lords.

14.

ftate of peace.

heard, of love and ftrife,

11.

We

without,

tion.

2.

are not great; for, at greateft, they muil ftill be
limited.
Sautb.
_
bring into the world with us a poor needy
uncertain life, fliort at the longed, and unquiet iif
the beft.
TVm/./,.

I

confequeiice of.
Inpeachments at the profecution of the houfe of
commons, have received their determinations in

At before a fuperlative adjedlive implies
biji, in the ftate of
moft perfeftion, l^c.
Confider any man as to his perrmal powers, Uiey

jiyhffe'iParergon.

and avfi^'vT^M, fymraetry.]
Contrariety to fymmetry ;

At fometimes

10.

inihejlate; as, at

So facred was the church to foroe, that it had the

right ofina/ylam, orfanfluary.

Their various news

01 ftorms at fea, and travels on the (liore.

Dryd'v.
4.

taken ; a fanftuary ; a refuge ; a place
of retreat and fecurity.

Asy'mmetry. »./,[from a,

though he thought not at all of a circulation, yet

made he the firft true ftep towards the difcovery.
Crew*
To all you ladies now at land
We men at fea indite.
Bucihurfl*

High o'er their heads a mould'iing rock is pljc'd.
That promlfes a fail, and ihakes at ev'ry biart.

H^oodward' t Natural Hiftory.

and c:v>.iu, to pillage.]
A place out of
which he that has fled to it may not be

Shaiejfcare*

He that in tracing the velTels began at the heart,

They prefently amend.
Sbaktjfrare' s Macbeth.
O fir, when he (hall hear of your approach,

Drydtns Fables.

amafll-J and concreted

Yourhulband isaf hand, I hear his trumpet.

A^ his touch.
Such fanftity hath Heav'n giv'n his hand,

Dryden.

All this metallick matter, both that which continued njunder, and in fingle corpufcles, and t'lat
fubfided.

At fometimes notes the place where any
thing is, or afts.

9.

Milton.

accompanies, or immediately fucceeds,
the adion of the caufe.

Which, when a under, will not prove too hard.

which was

Iifufe his bread with magnanimity,

At, before a caufal word fignifies nearly
the fame as ivith, noting that the event

The fall'n archangel, envious of our ftjte.

fometimes the fame viYth/urmJljeJ^

And make him naked foil a man at arms. Shakeff.

We

m Ireland,

For both t "gether are each other's guard.
Borne far jjunder by the tides of men.
Like adamant and fteel they meeta'ain.

.<^/ is

ivith, after the French a.

Addf^t,.
made no efforts at all, where we could have
moft weakened the common enemy, and, at the
fame time, enriched ourfehes.
Swift.

Senfe thinks the planets fpheres not much .•j/at<iTj
What tells us th. n their diftance is fo far ? Di-uUt.
Greedy hope to find
His wifli, and beft advantage, us ajunder.

Seeks his advantage to betray us worfe

8.

At the fame time that the ftorm beats upon the
whole fpecies, we are falling foul upon one another.

feparately ; not togetljer.

Sptnjer

Hooker.

How frequent to defert him, and at laft

Asu'NDER.Wf. [apinbpan. Sax.] Apart;

_

ATE

A T

Not with Icfs ruin than the Bajan mole
At once comes tumbling down.

Dryden s^ncidm

17. At, like the French chez, means fome-

times application to, or dependence on.
The worft authors might endeavour to pleale us,
and in that endeavour defcrve fomcthing at out
hands.
Pope,

At all. In any manner; in any degree.
Nothing more true than what you once let fall,
Muft women have no characters at all.
Pope.

18.

A'tabai,. «./
the Moors.

A kind of tabour ufed by

Children ftiall beat our atabals and drnms,

And all the noify trades of war no more
Shall wake the peaceful morn.

Dryd. DonSehaJI.

We find fome arrived to that fottilhnefs, as to ATARA'XIA. In./.
[iT«fa|ia.] ExempSouth.
tion
from vexation;
How d'ye (in.l yourfelf fayslhe doflor to his A'taraxv.
j
tranquillity.
pot ent.
A little while after he is at it again,
own roundly what they would bear.
?

with a. Pray how d'ye find your boiy >

L'EJIranie.

But (he who well en.,ugh knew what.
Before he fpoke, he would be at.
Pretended not t.^ apprehend.

The fcepticks ai^edlcd an indifferent cqutpon;.
dcrous neutrality, as the only means to their atara.ria, and freedom frjm pa(rion«te diftarbanccs.
Glantfjile^t Seepfis,

Uudihras.

The creature's at his ditty work again.

Pipe.

Ate. The preterite of m/.

A

Sec 7« Eat.

And

A T H
And hj h'la fiiie hit ftced the gnfly forage an,
Sftnfer.

Even onr firft parents ait thcmfelves out of Paradifc; and Job's children junkettcd and feafled
together often.
S^uih.

A'theism. »./

\ixatA atheift.

A'tmosphere. n.f. [ir/**', vapour, and

and

if

fu 'ty fubitaace, fteatoma.

Sharf>.

the qualities of an atheroma,
or curdy wen.
Feeling

the matter

flufluating, 1

atkcrotnatiui.

Dryden.

2.

Strong of body ; vigorous ;
Seldom

Religious titled them the fons of God,
Shall yield up all their virtue, all their fame.

which

feen

Cod in tbi« world.

Dryden,

Acrofs ; tranfverfe to any thing.
Themiftocles made Xerxes poft out of Grecia,

Siuth.

Atheift, ufe thine eyes.

by giving out a purpofe to break his bridge athiuart
the HeHefpont.
Bacon's Ejjjiys.

Think, if thou canft, that matter, blindly huri'd
Without a guide, fhould frame this wond'rous world.

That dar'ft, though grim and terrible, advance

Thy mifcrealed front athviart my way.

Creech.

fectionate relation, or a loy«l fubjeft.

aJj.

Atheiftical ;

Birtley,

2.

The aihiift crew.

and queftion the truth of chriftianity, becaufe they
2.

gion, (hould, inftead of vindicating the trut!i, tacitly approve the fcoffcr?
South.
I entreat fuch as arc atheifticalhf inclined, to confidcr tlicfe things.
Tilhtfon.

Goes all decorum.

Shakefp. Meafure Jor Meafure.

antagonift.
In the city Tours

Thou ran'ft atilt, in honour of my love,
And ftol'ft away the ladies hearts from France.
Sbaiejfeare.

To run atilt at men, and wield
Their naked tools in open field.
-Hudibras.
2. In the poftureof a barrel raifed or tilt-

to atheifm.
This argument dcmonftrated the exigence of a
Deity, and convinced all albeiftick gainfayers.

"ed behind, to make it run out.
Such a man is always atilt; his favours come
hardly from him.
Spellator.

Ray on the Creation.

A'thel, Athelinc, Adel, and J&THEL, from adel, noble. Germ. So

A'tlAS. n.f.
1.

a noble genius ; jEthclbert, eminently nohlt; .^theltuard, amble prote^or.

tion.
2.

Gibfon's Camden.

A'theous. adj. [SSi®-.] Atheiftick j godlefs.

Thy Father, who is holy, wife, and pure.
Suffers the hypocrite, or atbeous prieft.
taradije Regained.

ATHERQ-MA. n.f. [i%«fc«, from <;$,p«,
pap or pulfc]

A fpecies of wen, which

A colledlion of maps, fo called probably from a pifture of Jilas fupporting
the heavens, prefixed to fome collec-

jEthclredls noble for ccunfel; jEthelard,

To tread his facred courts.

One that
holds the atomical philofophy, or doftrine

of atoms.
The atomifts, who define motion to be a paf.
fage from one place to another, what do they m^rc

than put one fynonymoas word for another?
Locke,

Now can judicious atomifts conceive.

A large fquare folio
thefe

folios,

which,

Chance to the fun could his juft impulfe give ?
Blackmcre*

Hammonds Fundamentals.
Athei'stick. fl<^'. [from«/-J^^.] Given
etbeiftiealmji.

Bentley's Sermons,

,

Ati'lt. adv. [from a and ////.]
1. In the manner of a tilter ; with the
aftion of a man making a thruft at an

Athei'sticalness. v./. [hom atheijlieal.] The quality of being atheiftical.
Lord, purge out of all hearts profane.nefs and

a ira'vers.

:

The baby beats the nurfe, and quite athvjart

In an atheiftical manner.
Is it not enormous, that a divine, hearing a great
finner talk aiheiftically, and fcoft" profanely at reli-

Wrong

Relating to atoms.
Vacuum is another principal do£lrine of the <ir«mical philofophy.

ShaktJ^eare.

I

Confifting of atoms.

A'tomist. n.f. [from /jffcn!.]

All athwart there came
poft from Wales, loaden with heavy news.

South.

At H E I'sT c A L L Y.adv. [from aiheijlical.]

Sbakcff. As you like it.

BrowtCt Vulgar Erruurie

In a manner vexatious and perple-ting ;

A

as cafy to count af^ms, as to refolve the

Vitrified and pellucid bodies are clearer in their
continuities, than in powders and atcmical divifions.

crofsly.

Men are atheiftical, becaufe they are fitft vicious ;
hate the pra^ice.

1 .

Athwa'rt. ad-v. a tort.
1 .

is

Ato'micai,. adj. [from atom.

jiddifon.

Mihcn't ParaJifs Luft.

Any thing extremely fmall.
It

Through ; this is not proper.

Nor (lood unmindful Abdiel to annoy

ATHEi'sTicAL.aiir'. [(lom athcijl.'] Given
to atheifm ; impious.

^incy.

propofitions of a lover.

2.

Now, atb'wart the terrors that thy vow
Has planted round thee, thou appear'ft more fair.

God..

rudiments, or the component parts,

Pope,
2.

Paradife Loft.

denying

Such a fmall particle as cannot be
phyfically divided : and tiiefe are the

Innumerable minute bodies are called atoms, be~"<aufe, by reafon of their pcrfc^ folidity, they were
really indivifible.
Ray,
See plaflick nature working to this end,
The fingle atoms each to other tend.
Attract, attraftcd to, the next in place
Forra'd and impeird its neighbour to embrace.

Execrable fliape

No atheift, as fuch, can be a true friend, an af-

A'theist.

1.

Athwa'rt. prep, [from a and th^ari.'\
1 .

Boyle,

whom undefervedly we

call heroes.

And having view'd the order of the ikies.

:

.

ro-

South.
Science diftinguilhes a man of honour from one

of thofe athUtick brutes,

MiltonU ParaJ'tfe Left.

if he would but proceed rationally, he could not
however be a praflical atheift, nor live without

lufty ;

and neceffity caterer.

to the trains, and to the fmiles,

refilled.

A'TOM. ti./. [atomus, Lat, a,rofA.&-.'\

firft

one fee in rich families that
and vigour of conftitution,
in cottages, where natut« is cook,

foundnefs

bent atmoffherical cylinder, as a part of the weight

of all bodies.

(hall

athlciick
is

adj.
[from atmoConfifting of the atmofphere ;
belonging to the atmofphere.
We did not mention the weight of the incum-

fphere.l

Lat.

buft.

To tliefe that fober race of men, whole lives

Though he were really a fpeculative albtifl, yet

Impetuous ruflieso'er the founding world, thomfon.

Atmosphe'rical.

thirft.'\

Athle'tick. adj. [from athleta,

Lccke,

Immenfe the whole excited atmoffbere

it

Thirfty ; in want of drink.
With fcanty meafure then fupply their food ;
And, when athirft, rellrain 'em from the flood.

who would fcduce men to athiifm, Tilhtfon,
A'THEIST. «. /. [SS.©-, without God.]
One that denies the exiftence of God.

Of thefe fair atbeifts.

all ftdes.

Ji^tjcmani Surgery.

aSxjirW, a wreftler.]
Belonging to wreftling.

I

thought

Athi'rst. adv. [from a and

1.

Ignobly

the air, or atmoffbere ; a light, thin, fluid, or
fpringy body, that eocompalTes the folid earth on

Having

Bacon.

all thofe

The exteriour part of this our habitable world
is

compofed of fat, or a

It is the common intercft of mankind, to punifh

becaufe his ordinary works convince it.

ff^ai'^a, a fphere.]

Athero'matous. adj. [from atiercma.]

It is only

of two fyllables in poetry.] The di(belief of a God.
GoJ never wrought miracles to convince athtifm,

A T O

honey, melicetis ;

JTUJ'KOR. n.J. [a chymical term, borrowed from aia»»T®- ; or, as others
think, nun.]
A digelling furnace to
keep heat for fome time ; fo that it may
be augmented or diminiflied at pleafurc,
by opening or fliutting fome apertures
made on purpofc with Aiders over them,
*
called regillers.
^incy.

A T L
neither caufes pain, difcoloars the fein,
nor yields eafily to the touch.
If tlie matter forming them rcfemblei milk
curds, the tumour is called athenma ; if it be like

;

fo called

from

containing maps,

were made large and fquare.
3. Sometimes the fupporters of a building.

A'tomy. n./. An obfolete word for atom.
Drawn with a team of little atomiis
Athwart men's nofes, as they be aflecp.

pears to be the fenfe ftill retained in
Scotland.]
1. To agree ; to accord.
He and Aufidius can no more atone.

Than violenteft contrariety.
2.

Sbakefp. Ccriolanus.

To ftand as an equivalent.^r fomething ; and particularly ufed of expiatory facrifices, with the particle jor
before the thing for which fomethmg
elfe is given.
From a mean ftock the pious Decii came
Yet fuch their virtues, that their lofs alone
F^r Rome and all our legions did atone.

Dryden's yuvcnat.
The good intention of a man of weight and
worth, or a real friend, feldom atones for the uncafinefs produced by his grave reprefentations.
Locke,

^

4.

A rich kind of filk or fluff made for
women's clothes.
I have the conveniency of buying Dutch atlaffis
with gold and filver, or witljout.
Spidator.

Sbakefp.

To ATO'NE. <v. n. [from at one, as the
etymologifts remark, to be at one, is
the fame as to be in concord.
This derivation is much confirmed by the following paflage of Shakefpeare, and ap-

Let thy fublime meridian courfe
For Mary's fetting rays atone ;
Our luftre, with redoubled force,
Muft now proceed from tbce alone.

Prior,

Hi*

ATT

A T R

I never rccal it to mind, wNiout a deep aftonifhment of the very horrour and atrocity of the

His virgin fword ^gyfthus' veins imbrued ;

The murd'rer feU, and blood aton'dfor blood.

To Ato'ne. 'V. a.
If any contention arofe, he knew none fitter to
be their judge, to atont and take up their quarrels,
Drumm.
but himlelf.

To expiate

CLrenJcn.

A'trophy. n.f.[irer><pix.] Wantofnourilhment ; a difeafe in which what is
taken at the mouth cannot contribute to
the fupport of the body.

to anfwcr for.
Soon ihouli yon boafters ceafe their haughty
;

ftrifc,

Pipe.

Agreement; concord.

Marafmus, and wide-wafting peftilence.
Milton.
The mouths of the ladteais may be fliut up by
a vifcid mucus, in which cafe the chyle patfeth

He fecks to make at^^nimcnt

by ftool, and the perfon fallcth into an atrophy.
Sbakejpeare,

2.

Expiation ; expiatory equivalent : with

To ATTA'CH. -v. a.

To arrell

1

And the Levjtes were purified, and Aaron made

Ato'p. ad-Tj. [from a and tof.'\

Spcnfer.

accufc great ones, they might, without ft>fpicion or
Doife, be prefently attacbcd.
Bacon's Henry VII,

Sometimes with the particle of, but not
in prefent ufe.

ParaiifeLojl.
oil, which often fwims atof of the deco^ion.

it ?
nihtfin.
All the nobility here could not attain the fame
favour as Wood did.
Sivift.

black choler.] Melancholy; replete with
black choler.
The atraiilanan conditution, or a black, vifcous, pitchy confidence of the fluids, makes all
fecretions difficult and fparing.

Atrabila'rious. adj. [irom atra bilis,
Melanctiolick.

The blood, deprived of its due proportion of
ferum, or finer and more volatile paru, is atrabilarkui ; whereby it is rendered grofs, black, unctuous, and earthy.
Sluincy.
From this black adult Aate of the blood, they
are atrabilarkus.
Arhutbnot on Air,

Atrabila'riousness, n.f. [from a/racholy ; repletion with melancholy.

To come to a certain ftate

:
with to.
Milk Will foon feparate itfelf into a cream,
and a more ferous liquor, which, after twelve

If we enquire in what part of vitriol this afraand denigrating condition lodgetli, it will
feera efpecialiy to lie in the more fixed fait thereof.

their own country.

him to anfwer an aftion

arc

ATRCCIOUS. a/^'. [a/rcr,Lat.] Wicked

ednefs.

He wilfully neglefts the obtaining unfpeakablc
good, which he Is perfuaded is certain and altainable.

:

tainable, or of value enough.

Perfons become often enamoured of outward
beauty, without any particular knowledge of its
pofVeflbr, or its attainabknefs

by them.

to have the attainders of all of his party revcrfcd ;
and, on the other fide, to attaint by parliament hi>
enemies.
Bacon,

de-

The front, the rear

Y

Cane's Campaigns.

To impugn in

as with

fatire,

as, the

4. Taint; fully of character.
So fmooth lie daub'd his vicewith (hew of virtue.

He liv'd from all attainder of fufpedl.
Shakefp,
Atta'inment. n.f, [from attain.]
1. That which is attained ; acquifition.
We difpute with men that count a grcara/it'

tair.mcnt to be able to talk

dcclaimer attacked the reputation of his

much, and little to the
Glanville^

pur[x>fe.

Atro'ciousness. n.f. [from atrocious.]

The quality of being cnormoufly crimi-

aJverfaries.

Lat.] Horrible wickednefs ; excefs of wickednefs.
[<j/rff<-//<7/,

Our attainments are mean, compared with the
Grew,
perfcftlon of the univerfe.

Atta'ck. n.f. [from the verb.] AnalTault
upon an enemy.

nal.

Cheyne,

Atta'inder. n.f. [from To attain.'^
I. The aft of attainting in law; convicSee To Attaint.
The ends in calling a parliament were chiefly

Attack, while
vo thunders in the centre. Philip!.
Thofe that attack generally get the viflary,
though with difadvantage of ground.

any manner,
confutation, calumny ;

Rogers,

Atta'in ableness. n.f. [{\om attainable.] The quality of being attainable.

feme.

2.

Tillotfon,

None was propofed that appeared certainly at-

tion of a crime.

To ATTA'CK. -v. a. [attaquer. Fr.]
To affault an enemy oppofed to
1

ence ought not to be denied him in defending
caufes, unlefs it be an atrocioui offence.

an atrocious manner ; with great wick-

Glanville's Scepjis,

Atta'in ABLB". adj. [horn attain.] That
which may be attained ; procurable.

and fome-

a foreigner's goods found within a city,

An advocate is Deceifary, and therefore audiAyliffe^s Parergcn.

in ufe.
Crowns and diadems, the mod: fplendld terrene attains, are akin to that which to-day it
in the field, and to-morrow is cut down.

to fatisfy creditors within a city.

in a high degree ; enormous ; horribly
criminal.

Atro'ciously.Wt/. [from atrocious.] In

bring

The

thing attained ; attainment : a word not

times it extends to his moveables,

Inky ; black.
am noc fatiified, that thofs black and atraBrav/n.

;

4. Foreign attachment, is the attachment of

ink, Lat.]

which feem to rcprefenC them,

An apprehenfion of a man to

I

Atta'in. n, /. [from the verb.]

Addifon.

Attention ; regard.
The Romans burnt this laft Heet, which is another mark of their fmall attacbnunt to the fea.
Arbuthnot on Coins.

3.

Brovjnt Vulgar Errours.

Atr ame'ntou*. adj. [from atramentum,

To th* dulling of my Ipirits.
Sbakcjpeare.
To win ; to gain over ; to enamour.

it ii

cannot attain unto it.
Ffalm cxxxix. 6.
To have knowledge in molt objects of contemplation, is what the mind of one man can hardly
attain unto.
Locke,

cannot blame thee.

Adherence ; fidelity.
The Jews are remarkable (or an attachment to

[from atrame»tum,

To arrive at.
high ;

Atta'chment. ti./, [attacbetneitt, Fr.]

Inky; black.

Bacon.

n,

Such knowledge is too wonderful for me ;

Shakefp.

Rogers.

2.

tner.ta!

Our merchants goods at Bourdeaux,
To lay hold on, as by power.

To

1

'V.

Arbuthnot on Aliments,

Songs, garlands, fl^wVs,
And charming fymphonies, attach'd the heart
Of Adam.
Milton's Paradife Lofi.
6.
fix to one's interelL
The great and rich depend on thofe whom
their power or their wealth attaches to them.

The ftate of being melan-

a

days, attains to the highell degree of acidity.

Who am myie\i attach' d with wearinefs.
5.

Artuthnut on Diet.

:

to equal.
;
So the firft precedent, if it be good, is feldom

attained by imitation.

2.

I

come up with

To reach

To Atta'in.

Shakej'peare.

tach'd

4.

to

;

To

France hath flaw'd the league, and hath at-

Atrabila'ri AN. adj. [from atra bilis,

To overtake

fenfe now little in ufe.
The earl hoping to have overtaken the Scottldi
king, and to have given him battle, but not attaitnng him in time, fst down before the caftle of
A ton.
Bacon,
come to ; to enter upon.
3.
Canaan he now attains', I fee his tents
Pitch'd above Sichcm.
Milton's Paradife Lofi.

To feize in a judicial manner.

Arhutbnot ftn Aliment s.

Atro'city. n. /.

the means, nay by means that are quite contrary

1

0/" capital treafon I attach you both.

3.

Lat.]
To gain ; to procure ; to obtain.
Is he wife who hopes to attain the end widiout
to

You, lord archbiihop, and you, lord Mowbray,

What is extracted by water from coffee is the

ocular.

To ATTA'IN. 'u, a. [atteindre, Fr. attineo,

4.

Bohemia greets you,

Ai<^ whereof, but far more rich, appear'd

mrni'.ui fpou,

The

perfon that attacks.

Defires you to attach his fon, who has
Hi? dignity and duty both call off.
Siakefpeare.

The work as of a kingly palace-gate.

I

Coxvel/.

The Tower was chofcn, that if Clifford ihould

2.

Atrame'ntal. adj.

Young,

2.

apprehend by

Attach'd that traitor falfe, and bound him ilrait.

On die

top ; at the top.

ink. Lat.]

to take or

Eftfoons the guards, which on his rtate did wait,

Numbers.
an aUjnemem fir them to cleanfe them.
Surely it is not a fufficient atonement for the writers, that they profefs loyalty to the government,
and fprink'e fomc arguments in favour of the dtffenters, and, under the fliclter of popular politicks
and religion, undermine the foundations of all piety and virtue,
Sii:ift.

bilarious .'\

;

[attacher, Fr.]

commandment or writ.

Jhr.

black choler.]

To make that hopelefs, \\\-iinii attack.

Atta'cker. n.f. [from attack.]

Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Between the duke of Glo'fter and your brother?.

Thumfon.

wrong, when thouCands call'd me

back.

1.

Pining atrophy,

Or each atone his guilty love with life.

Ato'nement. n.f. [horn atone.^
1.

I own 'twas

fenders, as the atrocity of their crimes deferved.

To reduce to concord.

2.

If, appris'd of the fevere attack.

The country be (hut up.

fa^ in a Chrlftlan court.
ffotton.
They defired juftice might be done upon of-

Pope.

1.

ATT

2.

Hc£tor oppofes, and continues the attack; in
which Sirpcdoa mitkes tlie firll breach in the wall.
Pope's Iliad.

The aft or power of attaining.
The Scripture mud be fufficient to imprint io
us the charafler

of

all

a/wiRffiMr of eternal lifie.

Ra

things ncceflary for the
•

Hooka.
Education

..

..

ATT

ATT

Atte'mper. v. a. [attmpero, Lat.]

The crow doth fmg as fweetly as the ftorlct

ATT
ZdacatSoB in rxtent more large, of time lhorter>
Mihtn.
ind uf attmrmmt more certain.
Governmciit is an art above the attammtni ot
South*
an ordinary genius.
If the fame actions be the inllruments both ot
acquiring fame and procuring this happinefs, they
would nevertheleft fail in the attammfnt of this
Itft end, if they proceeded from a defire of the
MJifcn,
firft.
The great care of God for our falvation muft
appear in the concern he cxprefled for our attainRogeri,
ment of it.

To Atta'int. v. a.

To difgrace

1.

;

J**

to weaken by the mixture
of fomething elfe ; to dilute.
Nobility altemfert fovereignty, and draws the
eyes of the people fomewhat alide from tlie line

To mingle

1

to cloud with ignominy.

His warlike Oiield

Was all of diamonJ perfect pure and clean,

Altemfer'd funs arifc,
Sweet-bcam'd, and ftiedding oft thro' lucid clouds

A pleafing
2. To foften

to mollify.
;
His early providence could likewife have attm-

by appearance is by confellion, battle,
or verdifl.
Confellion is double ; one
at the bar before the judges, when the
prifoner, upon his indiiAment read, being aflced guilty or not guilty, anfwers
Guilty, never putting himfelf upon the
verdift of the jury.
The other is before the coroner or fanftuary, where he,
Dpon his confeflion, was in former times
conllrained to abjure the realm ; which
kind is called attainder by abjuration.
Attainder by battle is, when the party
appealed, and choofing to try the truth
by combat rather than by jury, is vanquiftied.
Attainder by verdift is, when
the prifoner at the bar, anfwering to
the indidment Nut guilty, hath an inqueft of life and death palling upon him,
and is by the verdiil pronounced guilAttainder -by procefs is, where a
ty.
party flies, and is not found till five
times called publickly in the county,
and at kit outlawed upon his default.

or felon Ihould be attainted, but a parliament mull
Sfer.fr.

muft offend before I be attaintij. Sbaktjfcare.

to corrupt.
My tender youth was never yet attaint
With any palfion of inflaming love. Sbairfprare.

Hamir.ond'i Prali. Catecii/m.

;

But freflily looks, and overbears attaint
Sbakcfp, SenryV.

a. Stain ; fpot ; taint.

No man hath a virtue that he has not a glimpfc

Milton,

I

Mac. xii. 17.

Le-

gal cenfure ; reproach ; imputation.
Hume's knavery will be the duciicfs's wreck,
And hcrafraJB/Brr will be Humphry's fall. Sb^k.

To Atta'minate. o/.a. [attamiae, Ldit.]
.^To corrupt; o fpojl.

for.

To him, who hath a profpe£l of the ftate that
attends all

Thy interpreter, full of defpight, bloody as the
hunter, titlends tliee at the orchard end.
Sbakefp. Tiuelfih Night.

To be bent upon any object.
Their hunger thus appeas'd, their care attends

11.

The doubtful fortune of their abfent friends.
Dryden,
1 died whilft in the womb he (laid.
Attending nature's law.
Sbatefp, Cymbertne,
I haften to our own ; nor will relare
Great Mitbridates' and rich Crafus' fate;
Solon wifely counfell'd to attend
The name of happy, till he,know his end. Creech.
Three days 1 promis'd to attend my doom,
And two long days and nights arc yet to come.

Whom

An attack.
If we be always prepared to receive an enemy,
we Ihall long live in peace and quietnci's, without
Bacon.
any attempts uj^on us.

An eflay
Alack

!

I

To ftay for.

12.

Atte'mpt. n.f. [from the verb,]

2.

Locke,

To wait for infidioufly.

10.

and filhy extreme below, anfwers the (hapc of the
ancient Syrens that attempted upon Ulylles.
Breiwn't Vulgar Ernun.
\

1.

men after this, the meafures of good

and evil are changed.

To Atte'mpt. 'V. n. To make an attack.
I have been fo hardy to attempt uptn a name,
which among fome is yet very facred. Clan. Step.
Horace his monfter with woman's head above,

Clarendon,

9. 'To remain to ; to await ; to be in florc

have neverthelefs attempted to fend unto you,
for the renewing of brotherhood and friendfliip.

Dryden,

an endeavour.
am afraid they have awak'd.
;

To AtTe'nd. v. n,

And 'tis not done ; th' attempt, and not the deed,

To yield attention.

1

Bur, thy relation now ! for I attend,
Milton.
Pledo'd witli thy words.
Since man cannot at the fame time attend to two
objefts, if you employ your fpirit upon a bonk or
a bodily labour,jou have no room left for fenfual

Shakejpeare's Macbetb.
Confounds us.
He would have cry'd; but hoping that he

dreamt,

Amazement tied his tongue, and ftoppjrfth' attempt,
Dryden,
-

temptation.

2.

To ftay

Taylor,

Liable to attempts or attacks.
The gentleman \ouching his to be more fair,

to delay.
Thi« fwlt true caufe, and laft good end,
She cannot here fo well and truly fee;
For this perfeilion (he muft yet attend.

virtuous, wife, and lefs attemptaHe, than the rareft
Shakefpeare.
of our ladies.

Davies,.
Till to her Maker (he efpoufed be.
Plant anemonies after the firft rains, if you

Atte'mpter. n.f. [from attempt.']
The perfon that attempts an invader.
1
;

.

The Sun of God, with godlike farte endu'd
Agalnft th'affwj^ftr of thy Father's throne. Mill.
2.

An endeavourer.
You are no failors for glory or treafore, but

Far. DiSt.
'\

The Duke made that unfortunate defcent upon
Rhee, which was afterwards attended with many

I

Sbak/fpeare.

.Atta'inturi. a./, \ixom attaint.

Spenfer,

To be confequent to.

8.

To try ; to endeavour.

of; nor any man an attaint, but he carries I'ome

A blow or wound on

The fifth had charge lick perlons to attend,
And comfort thofe in point of death which lay.

unprofperous attempts.

He flitt'ring his difpleafure,

2.

Arbutb. on P:et,

This fenfe is French.

To wait on, as on a charge.

7.

to invade ; to venture upon.

Tript me behind, got praifes of the king
For him attempting, who was felf-fubdu'd." Shak.
Who, in all things wife and juft,
Hinder'd not Satan to attempt the mind
Of man, with ftrength entire and free-will arm'd.

This fente is now obfoiete.

Nor doth he dedicate one jot of colour
Vnto the weary and all-watched night j

To expeft.

So dreadful a tempeft, as all the people attended

ToAtte'mpt. 'V. a. [attenter, Fv.]

To attack

Addifin's Cats,

therejn the very end of the world, and judgm--nt
day.
Raleigh's Uijisry,,

the promife ; if it exceed that temper and proportion, it becomes a tumour and tympany of hope.

I fubjoin the following fl/rcm^f towards a natural
Atta'int. n./. [from the verb.]
Id'ocdward m Tojjih.
hlftory of foilils.
I. Any thing injurious ; as illnefs, wcari- Atte'mptadle. adj. [from attempt,"]

the hinder feet of an horfe.

ftomach, attended with a ffver.

6.

Lat.] To proportion to fomething.
Hope muft be proportioned and atlemperate to

1

Shakefpeare,

A vehement, burning, fixed, pungent pain in the

~

!

;

ftain of it.

The friends of Rome.

Phemius let arts of gods and heroes old,
Pe^f.
Aitmper'd to the lyre, your voice employ.
To Attb'mpeRate. tj. a. [attempero,

Coivell.

Were it not an endlefs trouble, that no traitor

3, [Inhorfemanfhip.]

;

England ii fo idly king'd,

Her fceptre fo fantafticaily borne.
That fear attends her not.

My pray'rs and wilhes always (hall attend

To fit to fomething elfe.

A

With cheerful feniblance.

Clarendon*

To be prefent with, upon a fummons.
to be appendant to.
5. To accompany

4.

Spenfer.

To attaint is particularly ufed for fuch
as are found^uilty of fome crime or
offence, and efpecially of felony or treafon.
man is attainted two ways, by
appearance, or by procefs.
Attainder

nefs.

He was at prefent ftrong enough to have Aopped
or attended Waller in bit weftetn expedition.

She to her guefts doth bounteous banquet dlght,
Aitcmptrd, goodly, well for health and for delight.
4.

3. To taint

To accompany as an enemy.

3.

late.

Fairy Siuitti.

I

Baccn.

Thofe fmiling eyes, attemf'rirfr ev'ry ray,
Pcfe.
Shone fweetly lambent with ccleftial day.
3. To mix in juft proportions ; to regu-

That I'hcrbus goUen face it did attaint.
At when a cloud his beams doth overlay.

be called ?

riour, or a fcrvant.
His companion, youthful Valentine,
Attend: the emperoor in his royal court. Sbakejp,

Tbmfen.

caltri'.

For fa (Exceeding ihone his glidertng ray.

2.

2.

Bacca.

royal.

^(«^ his nature therein.

[attinter, Fr.]

When neither is attended,
Stattfpeart,
To wait on ; to accompany as an infe-

;

diCnterefted attemptert for the univerfal good.
Glanville's Seep/is.

will have flowers very forward j but it

attend till 0«3ober.

To wait

If any mjniftcr rcfufed to admit a ledturcr rerequired to attend
upon the committee , and not difcbarged ti I the

houfes met again.
;

to fix the mind upon.

The diligent pilot, in a dangerous tcmpcft, doth
not attend the uulkilful words of a pulTuiger.
Sidney.

furer to

Evelyn.

commended by him, he was

Lat.]

To regard

is

;
to be within reach or call.
The chai-gc thereof unto a covetous fnrite
Commanded was, who thereby did attend
Faiiy Siueent
And warily awaited.
4. To wait, as compelled by authority.

3

To ATTE'ND. -v. a. [attenJre, Fr. atte^o,
I.

;

Clarendon*

Atte'ndance. n.f, [attendance, ¥1,]
The ad of waiting on another ; or of
I .

ferving.
Ldajtctt

.

ATT

ATT

I dance attencleiiee here,
think the duke will not be Ipoke uithal. Zhak.
For he, of whom thefe things are fpoken, pertainetb to another tribe, of which no man gave

Being denied communication by their ear, t'leir
eyes are more vigilant, atteni, and heedful, fielder.
To want of judging abilities, we may add their
want' (jf leifure to apply their minds to fuch a

Attenu'ation. n, f. [{torn attenuate,]
The aft of making any thing thjn or

«r((n^<iffr; at the altar.

ferious and ottent con^deration.

ATT
I

/fri^. vii. 13.

The other, after many years attndance upon
the duke, was now one of the bedchamber to the
prince.
ClarendonM

Service.
Why might not you, my lord, receive attendance

2.

From thofe that flie calls fervants ?'
SbaUJptare i King Liar.

A'ttentates.

». /.

Proceedings in a court of judicature,

pending fuit, and after an inhibition is
decreed and gone out ; thofe things
which are done after an extrajudicial

Attendance none Ihall need, nor train j where none

doftrine.

i

Tim, iv. 15.

5. Expeftation : a fenfe now out of ufe.
That which caul'eth bitteraefs in death, is the
languifliing allindanct and cxpeflatioc thereof ere
it come.

Hc~ker.

Atte'kdant. aJj. [attendant, Fr.] Accompanying as fubordinate, or confeOther funs, perhaps.

With their attendant moons, thou wilt dcfcry.
Communicating male and female light. Far.LcJi,

Atte'ndant. n.f.
1. One that attends.
be returned forthwith ; difmifs your at-

tendant there; look it be done.

Shakeff. Othelln.

One that belongs to the train.

2.

memory.

atte/Ied by particular pagan autliors.

Soft whifpers ktA and mournfut murmurs rife
Among the fad attendants*
Dryden,

One that waits the pleafure of another,

as a fuitor or agent.
1 endeavour that my reader may not wait long
to give an attendant quick diffor my meaning
patch is a civility.
Bumet'i Tttory.
4. One that is prefent at any thing.
He was a conftant attendant a: all meetings re:

lating to charity, without contr. bating.

Hivift,

One that oweth a duty or
5. [In law.]
fervice to another ; or, after a fort, dependeth upon another.
Ccivell.
6. That which is united with another, as
a concomitant or confequent.
Govern ^eil thy appetite, lell fm
Surprize thee, and her black attendant, death.

Miltm,

They fecure (hemfelves firft from doing nothing, and then from doing ill ; the one being
fo clofe an attendant on the other, tint it is fcarce
po/Tiblc to ic\er them.

Decay of Piety,
He had an unlimited fenfe of fame, the attmdantof nohie fpirits, which prompted him to engage
in travels.

Pofe.

It is hard to take into view all the atterJantt or
coafequents that will be concerned in a quedion.

Atte'nder. rt./. [from atte/ti/.]

not always ilrike the foul at firfl fight.

lVatt<.

Heed-

regardful ; full of attention.
Being moved with thefe, and the like your effcftual difcourfes, whereunto we gave rooA attentful ;

fcious.

The facrcd ftreams, which

teftiraony ; atteftation.
The atteji of eyes and ears.

tiniony ; witnefs ; evidence.
There remains a fecond kind of peremptorincfs, c!f thofe who can make no relation without:
an attejiation of its certainty. Gcv. of the Tcngue..

The next coal-pit, mine, quarry, or chalk-pit,

Com-

panion ; aflbciate.
The gypfics were there,

honeft men by word or writing, Ojthe concurring witnefs of multitudes who havg
ken and known what they relate,
Pi-'atts,

tion of wife and

prefent.

To Atti'nge. f. a. [attingo, Lat.]
touch lightly or gently.

ATTl'RE. -v. a. [attircr, Fr.]
drefs ; to habit ; to array.
Let it llkcwife your gentle breaft infpire
With fwcct infufion, and put you in mind.
Of thatproud maid, whom now thofc leaves attire.
"
Proud Daphne.
Spcvjer^
My Nan (hall be the queen of all the fairies j.
Finely attired in a robe of white.

Heedfully j carefully.
If a man look Iharply and attent'wely, he /hall
Fortune ;" for thoujih <bs be blind, flie

is not
Baccn.

The caufe of cold is a quick fpirit in a cold
body 5 as will appear to any that fliall attentively
confider nature.
Bacon.

Shakcjpeare' s Merry Wives ofWindfor..

With the linen mitre ihall he be attired..

Attire themfelves with blooms.

nefs ; attention.

At the relation of the queen's death, bravely
conftfTed and lamented by tiie king, how attenwounded his daughter.

Atte'nijant.

adj.

What has the power of
or diluting.

I.

Lat.]

making thin,

To ATTE'NUATE. -v. a. [attenuo, Lat.]

To make thin, or flender

:

Ben yonfcn.

Atti'nt. ae/j. [atlentus, L?it.]

Intent;

attentive ; heedful ; regardful.
Now mire eyes Ihall be open, and mine ears
tttint unto the prayer that it made in this place.
7.

Chron. vii. 15.

What can then be lefs in me than defirc
To fee thee, and approach thee, whom 1 know
Declar'd the Son ol Cod, to hear atienl
thy wildom, and behold thy goulike deeds ' Milt.
Read jour chapter in your prayers : little inter-

uptions Will iT.ake your prayers lefs tedious, and
jouifel/ more atlinl upon them.
TayUr'i Guide a Devition.

oppofed to

Davies on Ireland.

Thy fumptuous buildings, and thy wife's attire.
Hath colt a maf< of publick treafury.
Shakejpcare's HenryVl.p.W.
And in this coarfe attire, which I now wear.
With God and with the Mufcs 1 confer. Donne..

an ardent fpirit.
Boyle,
Vinegar curd, put upon an egg, not only diffolves the Ihell, but alfo attenuates the white contained in It into a limpid water.
fVijtman's Surg.
It is of the nature of acids to diflolve or at-

When lavifli nature, with her bcft attire.
Clothes thegay fpring, the fcafon of defiie. Waller.
I pafs their torm, and ev'ry charming grace.
But their attire, like liveries of a kind,

tenuate, and of alltalin to precipitate or incralTate.

All rich and rare, is frclh within my mind. Drydi,

Nttoton's Of ticks.

The ingredients are digelled and attenuated by

2.

heat; they are ftirred and conftantly agitated by
wind'.
Arbuihnot.

Atte'nuate. adj. [from
Made thin, or flender.

Clothes; drefs; habit.

It is no more dilgiace to Scripture to have left
things free to be ordered by the church, than for
Nature to have left it to the wit of man to devife
his own allire.
Hooker.
After that the Roman attire grtw to be in account, and the gown to be in ufe among them.

Sbak. fyin. Tale.

[atlenuans,

verb.]

Vivification ever confiftcth in fpirits attenuate,

which the cold doth congeal and Coagulate, Batcn,

[In hunting.]

The horns of a buck or

flag.
3.

the

Philips.

Atti're. n.f. [from the verb.]

The finer part belonging to the juice of grapes,
being attenuated and fubtilized, was changed into

With fuch their aiienderi
As you thought ofiendcrs.

Lev. xvi. 4,

Now the fappy boughs

condenje, or incrajfate, or thicken.

Like lords to appear.

To

Atte'ktiveness. n./. [from attenti've.]
The ftate of being attentive j heedful-

livtnefs

To>
DiSf.

To
Prior.

Atte'ntively. ae/'v. [from attenti've.]

invifible.

thefe aie fo-

;

We may derive a probability from the attejia-

Tatler.

A critick is a man who, on all occafions, is
more attcnti-ve to what is wanting than what is

fee

what I write

Wood-ward' s Natural H'Jfory^

by the names of Sloih, Ignorance, and

His rage; the lion drop his ciciied main,
Attentive to the fong.

give attejiation to

obvious that I need not feck for a compurgator.

1 faw moft of them attentive to three Sirens, dif-

j

Paradije Regained.

Attesta'tion. »./. [from atteji .] Tef-

will

Mdifin.
Mufick's force can tame the furious bead

~

With wonder.

Shaie/feare't Merchant of Venice.

Can make the wolf or foaming boar rcJlrain

Sbakcfpcare,-

With the voice divine
Nigh thunderftruck, th' exalted man, to whom
Such high atteji was giv'n, a while furvey'd

Hooker.

_

Dryden.

Atte'st. »./. [from the verb.] Witnefs;

I'm never merry when I hear fweet mufick.

Pleafure.

heav'n's imperial

ftate

Atlrfls in oaths, and fears to violate.

ive car, till they entered even unto our fouls.

tiguirtied

Addifon,

To call to witnefs; to invoke as con-,

2.

Locke.

Atte'ntive. etdj. [(torn attent.']

[at tefior, Lat.]

a.

Many particular fads are recorded in holy writ,

the aft of
bending the mind upon any thing.
Tliey fay the tont,-ucs of dying men
Inforce attenticn like deep harmony.
Skahef^eare.
He perceived nothing but filence, and figns of
attentii^n to what he would further fay.
Baci,n.
But him the gentle angel by the hand
Soon rais'd, and his aitintian thus recall'd. Miltcn.
By attenticn, the ideas that offer themfelves are
taken notice of, and, as it were, regiftered in the

Skinner.

-v.

To bear witnefs of; to witnefs.

1.

aft of attending or heeding ;

•—The reafon is, your fpirits are attentive.

When feme gracious monarch dies.

3.

Atte'ntion. n.f. [attention, Fr.] The

Lincolnfliire.

To At te'st.

Attention U a very necelTary thing ; truth doth

quential.

1 will

A'tter. n.f. [atep. Sax. venom.] Corrupt matter.
A word much ufed im

appeal, may likewife be iUled attetitates.
Ayliffe.

Are to behold the judgment, but the judg'd,
Thofe two.
M'lUcm'i Paradije Lcji.
4. Attention ; regard.
Give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to

bell, the found will be according to the inward
concave of the bell ; whereas the elifion or altenuaticn of the air, can be only between the hammer and the outfide of the bell.
Baccn,

Lat.]

[etttenlata,

The perfons waiting ; a train.

3

flender ; lefliening.
Chiming with a hammer upon the outfide of a

Scuth.

[In botany.] The flower of a plant is
divided into three parts, the empale-

ment,
which

the
is

foliation,

either

and

florid

or

the

eittire,

fcmiform,

Fhriit

t

;

ATT

ATT
flariJ ati'iri, called thrums or fuits, »s
in the flowers of marigold and tanfey,
confifts fometimcs of two, but commonly
The outer part is the
cjf three parts.
floret, the body of which is divided at
the top, like the cowflip flower, into
iive diilinft parts.
Stmiform attire confifts of two parts, the chives and apices;
DiB.
one upon each attire.

Atti'klh. n./. [from atfire.1 One that
'^.'ires

afiother ; a drefler.

been royally atiorniej with interchange of giVts.

or aflion in which
a ftatue or painted figure is placed.

Inviting; alluring; enticing.
Happy is Hcrmia, wherefoc'er (he lies;

2.

Stateffeare.

To employ as a proxy.

2.

For flie hath bielfed and attraflive eyes. Sbalefp,
1 pleas'd, and with attraBive graces won.

As I was then
Adrertifing, and holy to your bilfinrls,
Nor changing heart with habit, 1 am ftill
Atttrnicd to your fervicc.
Sbakefpeare.

The mod avcrfe, thee chiefly.

which draws or

incites

except that atlra<3i've
indifferent fenfe,

;

carious agency.
But marriage is a matter of more worth,

Than to be dealt in by atfjrtieyp'tp,

Mi'iton,

Attra'ctive, n.f. [from attraS.] That

Atto'rnbvship. n. f. [from attorney.'\
The office of an attorney proxy ; "vi-

Di(S.

'I'he pofture

!c not Improbable but there may be more altrtffive
powers than thefe.
t/eviltin,

Their encounters, though not perConil, have

A'ttitupe. »./ [attitude, Fr. from fl//o,
Jtal.]

A tT

To perform by proxy.

1.

]:

:

;

is

allurement
of a good or

and allurement gene-

rally bad.

The condition of a fervant (laves h'm oft' to a

Sbakefpeare.

diftance ; but the gofpcl fpeaks nothing but at-

At TV)' u R N M E N T n,f. [attournement, Fr.]
traBives and invitation.
South.
A yielding of the tenant to a new lord, At t r a'c ve ly. ad-v. [frdm attraSi've.]
.

I

Bernini would have tal^cn his opinion upon the
beiuty and aliiiuJe of a figure. Pricr's Dtdicatnn.
They were famou!i originals thac gave rife to
Ratucs, with the fame air, poflure, and altitudes.

or acknowledgment of him to be his
lord ; for, otherwifc, he that buyeth or
obtaineth any lands or tenements of
another, which are in the occupation of
a third, cannot get poflfeflion.
Co-xvell.

Milijon.

Atto'llent. adj. [attolletis, Lat,] That
which raifes or lifts up,

To ATTRA'CT. 'v. a. [attraho, attraOum,

J <hall farther take notice of the exquifite libra-

n. /. [attornatus, low Lat.
from teur, Fr. Celui qui 'vient a tour d'au-

of the loadllone, or that jet and amber atiralletb
ftraws and light bodies. Brown's Vulgar Errours.
The fingle atoms each to other tend,
AttraB, atlraBed to, the next in place
Form'd and impell'd its neighbour to embrace.

trui ; qui alterius I'ices fubit ."^

Such a perfon as by confent, commandment, or requeft, takes heed, fees, and
takes upon him the charge of other
men's bufinefs, in their abfence. Attorney is either general or fpecial: Attorney general is he that by general authority is appointed to all our affairs or
luits ; as t\it attorney general o( ihc]fL\ng,

To draw to fomething.
A man fliould Icarce p«rfuade the affeftions

1.

ATio'RNEy.

1.

torneys general are

king's

or

by our ap-

pointment before juftices in eyre, in
open court. Attorney fpecial or particular, is he that is employed in one or

more caufes particularly fpecified. There
are alfo, in refpeft of the divers courts,
attorneys at large, and attorneys fpecial,

belonging to this or that court only.
Covi<ell.
jitttrntys in common law,

are nearly the fame

with proaors in the civil law, and lolicitors in
courts of equity. Attorneji fue out writs or procefs, or commence, carry on, and defend adVions,
or other proceedings, in the names of other pcrfons, in the courts of common llW.
None are
admitted to a£l without having fervcd a clerkfhip
for five years, taking the proper oath, being enrolled, and examined by the judges.
The attorney general pleads within the bar.
To him come
warrants for making out patents, pardons, &r.
and he is the principal manager
all law aftairs
of the crown.
Ciamieru
;

Urg'd on examinations, proofs, confeffions.
Shakefptare.

to invite.
Adorn'd

I

jou ?

the verb is now not ia ufe.]

[attrahens,

Attra'ct. »./. [from To attraa.]

Clanville's Scepfls*

Attrecta'tion.»./ [attre^atio, Lat.
Dia.

Frequent handling.

buted; afcribable; imputable.

Much of the origination of the Americans feems
to be attributable to the migrations of the Seres.

Hale.

To ATTRI'BUTE. 'v. a. [attrihto, Lat.]

To afcribe

1.

to give ; to yield as due.

At-

tradjon ; the power of drawing : not in

common imbecillities which are incident unto our

ufe.

nature.

And woo and contract in their names.

pugnancy or contradiSion in it. Power and wifdom have no repugnancy in them.
Tillotfen,

Hudibras.

I

ing the power to draw to it.
Some ftones arc endued with an eleftrical or
attraHical virtue.
Ray on the Creation.
Attra'ction. «./ [from attraa.'\
1. The power of drawing uny thing.
The drawing of amber and jet, and other clectrick bodies, and the attratlion in gold of the
fpirit of quickfilver at diftaiice ; and the attralfion
of heat at diilance ; and that of fiie to naphtha
;
and that of fome herbs to water, though at dif-

tance j and divers others, we (hall handle.

Bactn.
Loadftones and touched needles,* laTd long in
quickfilver, have not amitted their aitradion.

To impute, as to a caafe.

2.

have obferved a campania determine contrary
by tlic caution and conduft of a
general, which were attributed Co his infirmities.
Temple.
The imperfeflion of telefcopei is attributed to
fpherical gla(rcs; and mathemiticians have propounded to figure them by the conical fc£tions.
Newton's Opticks.
I

to appearances,

A'ttribute. n.f. [horaTo attribute.'\
1. The thing
attributed to another, as
perfedion to the Supreme Being.
Power,

light, "virtue, wifdom, and goodnefs,
but attributes of one fimpic elTence, and
of one God, wc in all admire, and in part difcern.
Raleigb.
Your vain poets after did mi (lake.
Who ev'ry attribute a god did make.
Dryden.
All the perfections of God are called his attributes i for he cannot be without them.
fVatts's Logick.

being

Brown's Vulgar Errours.
jlitraBion may be performed by impulfc, or fome
other means ; 1 ule that word, to fignify any force
by which bodies tend towards one another.
Niivtons Opticks.

The power of alluring or enticing.
Setting the attraBion of my good parts afide, I

have no other charm*.

Sbakefpeare.

AttRa'ctive. adj. [ftom attrad.'\

Hooker.

We attribute nothing to God that hath any re-

At t r a'c t c a i..adj. [from attra^.] Hav-

I.

;

To their very bare judgment fomewhat a reafonable man would attribute, not^vithllanding the

feel darts and charms, attrafls and flames.

2,

Lat.]

Our eyes will inform us of the motion of the
fteel to its attrabent.

Pope.

2.

Having the power to draw any thing.
What if the fun

j

«. f.

That which draws.

Hammond.
Dei;;n to be lov'd, and ev'ry heart fubdue

What nymph could e'er attract fuch crowds as

Be centre to the world ; and other liars,
liy his attra^i-ve virtue, and their own.
Incited, dance about him various rounds ? Milton.
Some, the round earth's cohefion to fccure.

;

A'ttrahent.

Milton.
Siiew the care of approving all afticins fo as
may moft effeaually attract all to this profellion.

Defyairing quacks with curfcs fled the place,

I will attend my huiband
it is my office
And will have no attorney but myfelf
And therefore let me have him home.
Shakefp.
y'e Atto'rney. v. a. [from the noun;

If the draws be in oil, amber draweth them
not ; oil makes the ftraws to adhere fo, that they
cannot rife unto the attraBor. Brown's Vulg. Err.

Attri'b-utable. adj. [attriiuo, Lat.-]
That which may be afcribed or attri-

And vile attorneys, now an ufelcfs race.
Pope.
2. It was anciently ufed for thofe who did
any bufmefs for another ; now only in
law.

agent that attrads ; a drawer.

Thy love ; not thy fubjedlion.

V

I am a fubjeA,
And challenge law atlarncyi are deny'd me,
And therefore perfonally I lay my claim
To mine inheritance.
Sbakejpejre.
The king's attorney, on the contrary,

;

She was indeed, and lovely, to attrad

made either by the

patent,

letters

At-

^

Pope.

To allure

2.

which is nearly the fame with Procurator Ctrfaris in the Roman empire.

ing.

Attra'ctiveness. »./[from attra3i've.'\
The quality of being attradive.
Attra'ctor. n.f. [from at trail. 1 The

Lat.]

tlon of the alulUnt and dcprimcnt mufcies.

Dertam's FhyJico-TLtil'-gy-

With the power of attrafling or draw-

all

Quality ; charaderiftic difpofition.
They muft have tliefe three attributes ; they muft
be men of courage, fearing Cod, and hating cove tournefs.

For that hard talk employ magnetick power j
Remark, fay they, the globe with wonder own
Its nature, like the fam'd attraliive ftone.
Blacktncre.

Bodiet »€t by the attradions of gravity, magneiifm> and eleclticity j and thefe inlUnccs make

3.

Bacon.

A thing belonging to another
pendant

;

;

an ap-

adherent.

His fceptic (hews the force of temporal pow'r.
The attribute to awe and majcfty
But mercy is above this fcepter'd fway.
It is an attribute to God himfelf.'
Sbakefpeare.
The fculptor, to didinguKh him, gave him

what the

medalifts

call

his proper attributes,

a
Addifon.

fpcar and a ibield.

4.

Kepu-

;

.

;

!

A V A

A V A

A U D

For all that elfe did come were fure to fail
Yet would he further none but for avail, Speujtr.

4. Reputation ; honoar.
It takes

1

From our achievements, tho* perfiwmM at height,
Shakffp.
The pith and marrow of our attriSaft,

To tell me truly.

Truth, light upon this way, is of no more a^'a,-/
Lech.

to us than errour.

O, he is bold, and hlu(hcs not at death ;
Avauiit, thou hateful villain, get thee gone 1

Profitable ; advantageous.
Mighty is the efficacy of fuch interceflions to
avert judgments
how much more available then

itbakefpeare.

1 .

As not a foldier of this feafon's (lamp

may they be to fecure the continuance of bleilings

Shakeffttare.

Ground;

worn by rubbing.
Or, by coUifion of two bodies, grind

.'

Atterbury.
All things fubjeft to aOion the will does lo
far incline unto, as reaion judges them more acai/-

We fuflfcr him to perfuade us we are as gods,
and never fufpcft thele %\ox\om attribuu^m may be
Dicay ofPitty.
no more than flattery.

After this procels
To give her the avaunt ! it is a pity
Would move a monfter.
Sbakcjp, Henry VIII.
dilmifs that rabble from your throne.
MiJlrefs
Avaunt
is Aiiftavchus yet unknow n ?
Dunciad,

j

Should go fo general current through the world.

abU to our blil's.
Hooker,
2. Powerful ; in force ; valid.
Laws human are available by confent, Hcoker,
Drake put one of his men to death, having no

MHicn.

The air atirhe to fire.

A word
by which any one is

of abhorrence,
driven away.

Sha'mjfcarc.

Ava'ilable. aiij. [from a'vai/.'\

If fpeaitir.g truth,
In this fine age, were not ttought flattery.
Such attrihuihn Ihould the Douglafs have,

A word ufed

Ava'unt. i)tterje3. [avant, Fr.]

As beav'n (hall work in me for thine a^'aii.

Attribu'tion. ».y. [fiomTo altriiute.]
Commendation ; qualities afcribed.

Attri'te. aJj. [attrittts, Lat.]

enough.] Enough ; ceafe.
among feamen.

charge thee.

!

—

A'u B u R N E. adj. [from aubour, bark, Fr.]
Brown of a tan colour.
;

Her hair is auburnCj mine is perfeft yellow.
Shakeffeare.

His auburne locks on either (houlder flow'd.

Raleigh.

Which ^tnefun'ral of his friend he vow'd. Dryd,

Attri'teness. «r./. [horn attrite.] The Ava'ilableness. n,/. [from a'vailaiJe.J
being much worn.
Power of promoting the end for which

Lo, ho>v the arable with barley grain
Stands thick, o'erlhadow'd ; thefe, as modern ufe
Ordjins, infus'd, an auburne drink compofe,
Wholefome, of deathlefs fame.
Fhilipi,

authority nor commiflion available,

1

Attri'tio.v.
1 .

ft./.

[a//r/h'o, Lat.]

it is

one againft another.

Hale.

This vapour, afcending inceflantly out of the

Woodivard.

the inward ftomach, and diflblvent liquor
jlriuitml.
afllfted with heat.

licn of

2.

The ftate of being worn.

3.

[With divines.]

Grief for fin, ariffng
only from the fear of punilhment ; the
loweft degree of repentance.

To Attu'ne.

t;.

a.

[from tune."] .

;

as,

he

attunes his voice to his harp.

See Attorney.

Attu'rney. »./.

Powerfully; profitably; advantageoufly.
Legally ; validly.
Ava'ilment. a./, [from ci/fli/.] Ufefulnefs ; advantage ; profit.
To Ava'le. I'.a. [aa;a/<f>-, to let fmk, Fr.]
J.

Atwe'hn. ad-v.ot prep. [SeeBETWEEN .]
Betwixt; between; in the midft of two
things obfolete.
Her loofe long yellow locks, like golden wire.
:

Sprinkled with pearl, and purling flowers atv^teit.
Do, like a golden mantle, her attire.
Sf^erfer.

Atwi'xt. prep. [See Betwixt.] In the
middle of two things : obfolete.

To let fall
to fmk

;

to deprefs ; to make abjeft

But with outrageous ftrokes did him rcftrain,
Fairy S^ttn.

To AVA'IL. V.

a. [from valoir, Fr. ; to

avail being nearly the fame thing with
faire 'valoir.'\
1.

To profit; to turn to profit: with of
before the thing ufed.

Then (hail theyfcek t'fliwVthcmfclvesfl^names,
Places, and titles ; and with thefe to join
Secular pow'r.

Afi/tcn.

Both of them awa;/ themfrlve » o/'tholi licences,
which Apollo basequilly beftowed on them. Dryd.

2.

To promote; to profper

;

to

more fervitude towards that fee, than had been

among us.

f/^otlm.

To Ava'le. v, n.

Of Jove, on high Dodona's holy hill.
What means might beft his fafe return avail, Pofr.
yo Ava'il. nj.iu Tobeofufe; to be of
advantage.
Nor can my ftrength (twai/, unlef>{)y thee
Endu'd with f Jrce, I gain the viflory.

Drydtn,
When real merit is wanting, it availt nothing
to have been encouraged by the great,
Pcpe'i Prcfartto hit tVortt.

n.f.

advantage;

[from To a'yail.'\
benefit.

To fink.

But when his -latter ebb 'gins to avale.
Huge heaps of mud he have*.
Spctifir,
Ava'nt. The front of an army. See

Profit;

A'ucTioN. v.a.
fell

[irora.

To

auSion.]

by auftion.

A'ucTiONARY. adj. [from auRion.] Belonging to an auftion.
And much more honeft to be hir'd, and ftand
With euEtionary hammer in thy hand.
Provoking to give more, and knocking thrice
For the old houfehold ftulF, or picture's price.
Dryderii 'Juvenal,

Auctioni'er. ». / [irovcv auBion.] The
perfon that manages an auiSion.
A'uctive. adj. [from audus, Lat.] Of
DiB,
an increafing quality.

Aucupa'tion.

«.

f.

[aucufatio, Lat.]

Fowling ; bird-catching.

Van.
AUDA'CIOUS. adj. [atidacieux, Fr. auAva'nt-ouard. n.f, [wva/iigan/t, Fr,]
dax, Lat.] Bold
impudent; daring:
The van ; the firft body of an army.
always in a bad fenfe.
;

Thc'horfcmcn might ilTue forth without difturbance of the foot, and the avant-guard without
Haytvard.
fljjKllng with thcbattail or arriere.

Thy lewd, peliirrous, and diflentious pranks.

A'VARICE. n,/. [avarice, Fr. a^uaritia,

Till Jo\^, no longer patient, took his time

Lat.]

Such is thy audacious wickednefs.
Sbakefpeare*

T' avenge with thunder tbeit audacious crime.

Covetoufnefs ; infatiable defire.

Dryden,

There giows
In my mod ill-compos'd afl'c^ion, fuch
A ftanchlefs avariie, that, wcte 1 king,
I Ihuuld cut off the nobles for their lands. Shakeff,
This avarice of praife in times to come,
Thofc long infcriptions crowded on the tomb.
Drydtn.
Nor love his peajoe of mind deflroys,
Nor wicked ai/aricf of wealth.
Dryden.

Avarice is infatiable ; and fo he went ftiU pufliL'EJirange,
ing on for mure.
Be niggards of advice on no pretence.
For tlie worft avarice is that of fenfe.
Pope,

Young ftudents, by « conftant habit of difputing, grow impudent and audacious, proud and dif-

dainful.

Boldly ; impudently.

An angel (halt thou fee,
Vet fear not thou, but fpeak audacioujly, Shakefp,
Auda'ciousnesj. »,/, [ixom audacious.]

Impudence.

Auda'city.

!

Great eft'efts come of induftry and perfevcrancc; for audacity doth almoft bind and mare
the weaker foit of minds.
Bacon s Nat, Ilijlory,
for want of that freedom and audacity, necelTaty
in commerce with men, his pcrfonal modcfty over-

Luxurious, avaricioui, faife, deceitful.
Hbakeff, Macbeth.
This fpcech has been condemned as avarieiout j

and Euftathiua judges it to be Ipolcen artfully.
Brcon'c en the OdyJJiy.

Avari'ciousness,
cioui.]

The

[from avariof being avari-

n. /.

quality

cious.

Ava'st. adv,

[from iajla,

Ital.

it

is

(from audax, Lat.]

Lean, raw-bon'd rafcals who would e'er fuppofe
They had fuch courage ani audacity ?
Shakeff,

vetous ; infatiably defirous.

Covetoufly.

n. f,

Spirit; boldnefs ; confider^e.

Avari'cious. aijy. [a'varicieitx, Fr."] Co-

AvARi'ciouSLY. Wi;. [from avaricious.]

fVatts,

Auda'ciouslv. adv. [irom audacious .]

aflilt.

Mean time he voyag'd to explore the will

Ava'il.

Tff

:

apenfer*
fovereignty into

The things fold by auftion.
A(k you why I'hrine the whole auBion buys
Ptpe,
Phrine forefces a general cxcife.
i'

a word out of ufe.
By that th' exalted Phcrbus 'gan a-vale
His weary wain, and now the frofty night

And with his body barr'd the way ativixt them
twain.

2.

2.

He did abafe and avale the

Airs, vernal airs,

To tune one thing to another

the feller is content to take.

Her mantle black thro' beav'n 'gan ovcrhalc.

To make any thing mufical.
Breathing the fmcll of field aod grove, attune
The trembling leaves.
Mlhcr,

2.

bids after another, till fo much is bid as

Ava'ilably. aJv. [from availai/e.'\

The change of the aliment is eft'cfted by aitri-

[audio, Lat.]

A manner of fale, in wluchone perfon

1.

validity.

2,

decays the bones and vegetables lodged in
thoie ftrata j this fluid, by its continual attrithrty
fretting the faid bodies.

.

Legal force ;

abyfs, and pervading the ftrata of gravel, and the
reft,

1.

ufed.

Wc difter from that fuppofition of the eflficacy, A'UCTION. «./.
or availablsnefif or fuitablenefs, of thefe to the end.

The aft of wearing things, by rubbing

rhicw all his publick adlions,

A'u DIB LE. adj.
I.

Matter,

[audiii/is. Lit.]

Tliat which may be perceived by hearing.
Vifiblcs work upon a looking-glafs, and audihlei
upon the places of echo, wliich refemble in fomc

forttbc cavern of the car.

Bacon'itJat.iliftery.

£ve.

.

;

Bifliopi otdinariet auditing

Eve, who unfceni
Vrt *U had heard, with audible lament

twelve pence.
I love exa£t dealing, and

Mtlt'iiDlfcover'd foon the place of her retire.
Every fenfe doth not operate upon fancy with the

fame force.

The conceits of vifibles are clearer

A

2.

The archbifliop's ulage was to commit the difcu fling of caufes to perfons learned in the law,
filled his aiidiicrs.
ylyliffe't Parergim.

Milisn.

hearing.
Were it reafon to give men audience, pleading for
tlic overthrow of that which their own deed hath

A king's officer, who, yearly examining the ao-

coUcfted to hear.
; peribns

The hall was

filled

with

which has the power of hearing.
not hearing performed by the vibrations of
in the auditory nerves by
the tremours of the air, and propagated through the
Newton.
capillaments of thofe nerves ?
Is

fome medium, excited

A'uDiTORY, n./. [auditorium, Lat.]
1.

Milton.
an audience of the

auditiry to their wits by dry reafon,

The reception of any man who delivers

VEflrange.

by both uniSouth.
verfities.
Several of this auditory were, perhaps, entire
ftrangers to the perfon whofe death we now lament.
as

you

arc,

Atlcrbury.

But Juft difcafe to luxury fucceeds.

And ev'ry death its own avenger breeds.
Pope.
Ave'nceress. n./. [from avenger.]
female avenger.
Not in ufe.
There that cruel qjeen avmgerefs

Heap on her new waves of weary wretchcdnefs.
Fairy S^een.

A'vens, n.f. [caryofhyllata, Liii.] The
Miller.
fame with herb bennet.
Av e'n T H R e. n.f. [aventure, Fr. ] A mifchance, caufing a man's death, without
felony ; as when he is fuddenly drowned,
or burnt, by any fudden difeafe falling
into the

n.f.

The

[horn audjtor.]

fire

or water.

See

ture.
A'vENUE, »./. [avenue, Fr.

AdvenCo-zuell.

It is fome-

times pronounced with the accent on the
fecond fyllable, as ff^alts obferves ; but
has it generally placed on the firft,]
way by which any place may be enI .

A

tered.

A place where leftures are to be heard.

2.

A'uDlTRESS.

In this high temple, on a chair of ftate.
Dryden.
The feat of audience, old Latinus fate.

to bring his

Met in the church, 1 look upon you as an audi'
firy fit to be waited on,

It proclaims the triumphs of goodncfs in a proper audience, even before the whole race of manAttcrbury.
kind.

^ folemn meffage.

An audience ; a colleftion of perfons
affembled to hear,
Dema^cs never troubled his head

greatell eminence for quality and politenefs.
jidJi/an.

4.

The juft avengej- of his injured ancefiors, the
viflorious Louis, »as darting his thunder. Dryden,

A'vviTOKY. aei/. [auditorius, hat.] That

Or, if the ftar of ev'ning and the moon
Hafte to thj audience, night with her will bring
Silence.

ConuelU

a general book.

According to the fair play of the world.
Let me hzve audience: I am fent to fpeak,
Skahefp.
holy lord of Milan, from the king.

Revenger; taker of vengeance for.

2,

counti of all under-officers accountable, makes up

Hwker.

ratified ?

becaufe the Lord is tiic avenger of all fuch. i Theff.
Ere this he had return'd, with fury driv'n
By his avengers ; fincc no place like this
Can fit his punifliment, or their revenge. MiIim,

A

4. In thfejlate.

His look

Punifher.
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother,

1.

perfon employed to take an account

In ecclefiaftical law.

Shaleff.
Thus far his bold difcourfe, without conrroul.

Drew audience, and attention ftill as night,
Mi/lca.
Or fummcr's noon-tide air.
Z. The liberty of fpeaking granted; a

Ave'nger. n.f. [hoxa avenge.]

If you fulpcdl my hulbandry.

To

Hid audience.

Spenfer*

$hakejj>eare.

Call me before th' exafleft auditcrt.
Sbatefpeare'i Timtn.
And let me on the proof.

3.

etvetige.}

All thofe great battles which thou boafts to wia
Through ftrife and blood/hed, and avcngement
Now pralfed, hereafter thou Ihalt repent, Puiry 2*

ultimately.

thing.

Philift.

[from

On thofe t\vo caitivet which had bred him blame.

I'U be an auditcr ;

bis auditors, ia exprel'sly agiintt the Epicureans,
Beniley.

I

». /.

Vengeance ; revenge.

This firft doarine, though admitted by many of

A'u D E N CE. n.f. [audience, Fr.]
I. The aft of hearing or attending to any
Now I breathe again

A
Ave'ncement.

That he might work th' avengemeni forhU Osamc

An ailor too, perhaps.

In fuch

Aloft the flood, and can give audience
any tongue, fpcak it of what it will.

Hear-

This neglcfted, fear
Signal avengtatiee, fuch as overtook
mifer.

[auditor, Lat, ]

What a play tow'rd ?

pablenefs of being heard.

Miltm.

Arbuibiuit.

Dear coufin, you that were laft day fo high in
the pulpit againft lovers, are you now became io
Sidney.
mean an auditir f

A'u BIBLE NESS. n.f. [iroxti ouMblt.^ Ca-

a manner as to be heard.
AnH lalt, the fum of all, my Father'* voice,
heard from heav'n, pronounc'd me hit.
Audibli
•'

nilhment.

A hearer.

1

Bacov.

A'uDiBLY. fli/i". \jvom audible."]

Ave'ncbance. »./. [{torn avingt."] Pa«

Hocus audit ; he

let

ing.
I

echo.

accounts, take

Ayliffe't Parergen.

Audi'tion. is./, [iiWiWo, Lat.]
A'u D TO R . It./,

One leaning over a well twenty-five fathom deep,
and fpeaking foftly, the warer returned an audihlt

all

Icnows how the money was dilburfcd.

Crew-

and ftr jnger than thofe of tudiUtt.
2. Loud enough to be heard.

My
3. An auditory

AVE

AVE

A U D

Good guards were fet up at all the avenues of the
city, to keep all people from going out.

Clarendon.

Truth is a ttrong h dd, and diligence is laying

woman that hears ; a flie-hearer.
Yet went {he not, as not with fuch difcourfe

fiege to it

,

fo that it muft obferve

all

and pall'es to it.

the avenues
Scuib,

Delighted, or not capable her ear
Audience Court. A court belonging to
z. An alley, or walk of trees, before a
Of what was high fuch pleafure flie ixferv'd,
the archbilhop of Canterbury, of equal
houfe.
Milton.
Adam relating, (he fole audilrefi.
authority with the arches court, though
Ave'l, 'j. a. [avello, Lat.] To pull To A\'E'R. 1", a. [averer, Fr. from evemm,
To
iintiquity.
inferiour both in dignity and
away.
To declare pofitively, or
truth, Lat,]
The original of this court was, becaufe
The beaver in chafe makes fome divullion of
peremptorily.
heard
feCanterbury
of
archbilhop
the
parts, yet are not ihefc parts avellcd to be termed
The reafon of the thing is clear
Breivn.
tefticles.
veral caufes extrajudicially at home in
Prior*
Would Jove the naked truth aver.
which he ufually com- A'vE Mary, ». /. [from the firft words
his own palace
Then vainly the philofopher avers
That rcafin guides our deed, and inftin£l theirs.
of the falutation to the Blefied Virgin,
jijitted to be difcufTed by men learned in
How can we juftly diff'rent caufes frame,
Ave Maria.] A form of worfhip rethe civil and canon laws, whom he called
Prior.
When the effe£ls entirely are the fame ?
and fo in time it became
peated by the Romanifts in honour of
his auditors
We may aver, though the power of God be incalled
who
is
Mary,
man,
Virgin
of
the
the
power
the
finite, the capacities of matter are within limits.
All his mind is bent on holinefs.
Bentley.
cau/arum negothrumque audienliit CanluMaries on his beads.
Ave
To
number
Shakefp.
Ccwell.
A'verage. tt./. [averagium, Lat.]
arUnfis auJitur,/eii officialis,
a'vena,
oats,
Lat.]
n.
[of
A'vENACE.
f.
1. In law, that duty or fervice which the
A'u D IT. n. f. [from audit, he hears,
A certain quantity of oats paid to a
tenant is to pay to the king, or other
A final account.
Lat.]
landlord, inllead of fome other duties,
lord, by his bealls and carriages, Chamb.
If they, which are accuftoraed to wc'gh all
Dicl.
or as a rent by the tenant.
things, ihall here fit down to receive our audit, the
In navigation, a certain contribution
:

;

;

:

fum, which truth amounteth to, will appear to be
Hojhr.
but this.

He took my father grofsly, full of bread.
With all his crimes broad blown, and fliifli as May
And how his auda Hands, who knows favc Heav'n >
Hamlet.
I can make my audit up, that all

From me d) bac'< receive the flow'r of all,
Hhakeffeare.
And leave me but the bran.
fe A'vDi-r. ev. a. [irom atulii.'] To take
an account finally.

2.

To AVE'NGE. 1/, a. [witger, Fr,]
1.

that merchants proportionably make towards the loffes of fuch as have their

To revenge,
I

will avenge me of mine enemies.

Ifaiab.

goods call overboard for the fafety of the
and this contribution
fhip in a tempeft
I will avenge the blood of Jezreelupon the houfe
feems fo called, becaufe it is fo proporllojea.
of Jehu.
tioned, after the rate of every man's
2. To punilh.
Co^vell.
a-veragt of goods carried.
Till Jove, no longer patient, took his time
3. A fmall duty which merchants, who
T' avenge with tiiuadcr your audacious cUme.
Dryden. ifend goods in another man's (hip, pay to
They Hood

againft

their

a-t'enged of their adverfaries,

enemies,

and were

ll^ijdcm.

;

the

;

the mafter thereof for his care of them,
Chambirs.
over and above the freight.
medium ; a mean proportion.
4.

[from aver/e.'\ Unwillingnefs ; backwardnefs.
The corruption of man is in nothing more ma-

Ave'rseness.

A

[from «'i'<r.]
1. Eftablilhment of any thing by evidence.

To avoid the oath, for averment of the continuance of feme eftatc, which is eigne, tlie party will
Bacon.
fue a pardon.

(hip or familiarity with God.

Avk'rsion.

Blount.

offer.

A fort of grape.

See

Riches and realms ?

They had an inward averjicn from it, and were
refolved to prevent it by all poflibic means. Clarendon.
With men thefe confidcratiuns are ufuallycaul'es

The aft of rooting up any thing.
7*0 Averru'nc ATE.
[averruaco,
I/, a.
to tear

of defpite, difdain, or a-verfion fnm others j but
with God, fo many reafons of our greater tenJerSpratt.
nefs towards others.
The fame adhcfion to vice, and averjion from
proof
any
goodnefs, will be a reafon for rejeiling
Amrtjrj.
whatfoever.

up by the

roots.
Sure fome mifchief will come of it,
Unlefs by providential wit.

Or force, we averruncatt it.

HuJ'rlras.

Aversa'tion. n./. [from aver/or, Lat]
Hatred ;

1 .

abhorrence ;

3.

Ron to receive new truths trom modern attronomy.

South.

•

Watti.

4.

Sometimes with_/cr.
The Lucquefc would rather throw themftlvcs
under the government of the Genocfe, than fubmit to a ftate/sr which they have fo great averfvm.

It is moil: properly ufed yi'nhfrom before

the objeft of hate.
There was a ftiff avirfat'nm in my lord of Eflcx

This averfi-m of the people ybr the late proceedings of the commons, might be improved to good

tfntiin.

Sometimes with /«

.•

lefs

properly.

There is fuch a genera! averjation in human nature 10 contempt, that there is fcarce any thing
more exafperating. 1 will not deny, but tlie exccfs
of the averjal'ion may be levell-d againft pride.

tuards.
His averfton tonvarJs the houfc of York was fo
found place not only in his
councils but in his bed.
Bacjn.

4. Sometimes, very improperly, with tc6.

tjuardi.

a hatred as to turn away.
Their courage UnguifliM as their hopes decay*d,

To Augme'nt.
grow bigger.

DrycUn>

1.

yi'verje alike to flatter, or offenH,

without the diminution of one drachm of the earth*
IValton^i Angler.

Averli her eyes, and half unwilling drops the brand.
Vrydcn.

To caufe to diflike.
When people began t

Pope.

cles,

has mod properly_/rc»i before the ob-

cfpy the falfchiod of orawhereupon all gentility was built, their hearts
>

were utterly averted from it.
Hooker.
Even cut theinfcKcs olf from the opportunities
of profelyting others, by averting them irom their
Government of the tongue.
company.

jeft of averlion.

L:ws politick are never framed as they fhould
be, unlels prefuming the will of man to be inwardly
obftinate, rebellious, and averft from all obedience
Hooker.
unto the facred laws of his natuie.

State of increafe.

2.

Difcutients are improper in the beginning of in-

Hammations ; but proper, when mixed with repellents, in the augment.

J.

IVifeman.

Augmenta'tion. a.y; [from augment.
1. The ail of increafing or making bigger.
"^

Thofe who would be zealous

againft regular

of thofe on foot.

Addifon.

The ftate of being made bigger.

2.

What modification ot matter can make one embryo capable of fo prodigioufly vaft augmentation^
while another is confined to the minutcnefs of an
Benttey.

infi-a ?
_

The thing added, by which another is
made bigger.
receive any augmentation of glory at our hands ; but
his name we glorify, when we teftify our acknow-

ledgment of his glory.

At this, for the laft time, ihc lifts her hand,

2.

delire. Sidney.

The winds redouble, and the rains augment.
The waves on heaps are dalh'd. Dryden^s firgll.
A'uGMENT. n./. [augmen fum, L^t."]
1. Increafe; quantity gained.
You fiiail find tliis augment of the tree to he

By being glorified, it does not mean that he doth

you

Shakijpfjre' s K'tng hear.

on a wretch.

To increafe; to

But as his heat with running did augment,

3.

T' avert your liking a more worthy way,
I'haii

v.

troops after a peace, will promote an augmentation

To turn afide; to turn off.
1 bcfeech

<v.

M uch more his fightencreas'd hi shot

Arbuthnot't hiftory of Jobn Bull.
Self-love and reafon to one end afpire
Pain their averjion, pleifure their dcfirc.
Pope.

unwilling to.

Not free from faults, nor yet too vain to mend.
It

Fairfax.
Rivers have dreams added to them in their paffage, which enlarge and augment them.
Hale^s Common Latv of England.

the averjion of the gejiticmen of the long robe.

Has thy uncertain bofam ever ftruve
With the fitd tumults of a real love >
Had thou now dreaded, and now blelsM his fway,
Prior.
By turv, averje and joyful to obey ?

3.

Some curfed weeds her cunnmg hand did know.
That could augment his harm, encreale his pain.

The caufe of averfion.

To AVE'RT. v. a. [awrto, Lat.]

And Pallas, now averje, refus'd her aid.
;

it

fuits among their neighbours; for which they were

Ave'rse. adj. [aver/us, Lat.]
1. Malign; not favourable ; having fuch

Not pleafed with

Addij'm's Cato,
Among my father's friends.
To AUGME'NT. 'v. a. [augmcnter, Fr.]
To increafe ; to make bigger, or more.

They took great pleafure in compounding Uw-

A

natural and fecret hatred and averjation toKvorHt fociety, in any man, hath fomewhat of thr
fa^age beafc.
Bacon.

2.

llances as may induce the chymifts to entertain
Boyle.
other thoughts.
aught be wanting.
But go, my fon, and fee

Swft.
5. Sometimes, very improperly, with to-

predominant, as

Any thing.

She Ihall not long continue love to him. Shakefp,
They may, for aught I know, obtain fuch fub-

ufes.

Gwernment of the Tongue.

'\

Saxon.
writtea

If 1 can do it,

Add'ijon.

frail applying himfeif to the earl of Lcicefter.

3.

is

By aught that 1 can fpeak in his difpraife,

\ might borrow illuftrations of freedom and a^er-

Hatred is the paffion of defiance, and there is a
kind of avtrjalim and holliUty included in its effence.

It

Aiidijon.

tion.

with deteftation.

2.

Sometimes, lefs properly, with to.

A freeholder is bred with an anierfon to fubjec-

turning awav

Moxon's Mecb. Exercifa,

[auht, aphr,
fometimes, improperly,

H

the objeft of hate.

cate.]

;

Milton.

z. It is ufed moft properly with yro»» before

Averrunca'tion. «./. [from ai-errun-

To root up

chips out of the ftuff.

Aught, pronoun,
ought.

What if with \\Vx. averfxon 1 rcjeft

may the eafier ufe your ftr«ngth : for

in twilling the bit about by the force of both your
hands, on each end of the handle one, it cuts great

Fr. averjia,

[averjion,

Hatred; diflike ; deteftation; fuch as
turns away from the objeft.

I.

Vl NE.

Lat.]

n. f.

Atirrbury.

yoti, that yoo

Lat.]

An oiFer of the defendant to juftify an
exception, and the adl as well as the

Ave'rnat. n.f.

ti.f.

nifeft, than in his a-verjenefs to entertain any friend-

Ave'rment. n. f.

2.

AUG

AUG

AVE

by King Henry the Eighth,

for the in-

creafe of the revenues of his crown, by
DiS.
the fupprcffion of monafteries.

A'uGRE. n.f.

A carpenter's tool.

See

Auger.
Your temples burned in the cement, and
Your fianchifes, whereon you Hood, confined
Into an augre& bore,

To put by, as a calamity.

Hooker.

Augmentation Court. A court crefted

Shakefp. Coriolanui.

O Lord avcit whatfoever evil our fwerving may Aug RE-HOLE. n.f. [from «K^r« and /^o/^.]
!

They believed all who obifdled againfl their unCldretuion.
dctaking to be avirjefrom peace.
Thefe carts alnne her virgin breaft employ,
Pope.
Avcrje jrt/m Venus and the nut't.al joy.
4.

Very frequently, but improperly, to.
He had, from the b-ginning of the war, been
Tcry B-uerje to any advice of the privy council.
ClarenAcn.

us of one Charondos, who was
all innovation, cl'pcciaily when it was to

Diodorus
averfe to

Sittft,

Ave'rsei.v. adv. [from a'ver/e.']
Unwillingly.
2. Backwardly.
Not nly they want thofe parte of fecretinn, but
1.

<

emitted tverfelj, or backward, by both fexes,
Bri,ii/n'iyulgtr Erreuri.

Vot.I.

Hooker.

D verfityof conjefturcs made many, whofj conceits averted from

themfelves the fortune of that
Kmltes.
war, to become carclcfs and fccure.

Th-fe ad'edlions earneftly fix our minds on God,
and forcibly avert from us thofe things which are
difpleafmg to him, and contrary to religion. Spratt.
Thro' thr;:aten'd lands they wild dellru(3ion
Till ardent prayer averts the public woe.

A UP. n.f.
filly

[of a^, Dutch.]

Prior.

A fool, or
Dia.

fellow.

A'uGER. «./.

A

hole made by boring with an augre ;
proverbially a narrow (pace.

What (hruld be fpoken here,
Where our fate, hid within an augre-hole.

May rufli and feize us.

Siakejp. Macbeth.

A'UGUR. n.f.

[augur, Lat.] One who
pretends to predict by omens, as by the
flight of birds.

throw,

tells

proceed from particular |)erfung,

it is

threaten unto his church.

[i'^j-^r, Dutch.]

ter's tool to bore holes with.
The augtr hath a handle and bit ;

A carpenits office is

to

make great round holes. When you ufe it, the
ftulf you work upon is commonly laid low under

What fay the augurs f

—They would not have you ftir forth to-day

!

Plucking the entrails of an olfering forth.

They could not find a heart within the bead.
Sbakejpeere.

Calchas, the facred feer, who had in view
Things prefcnt and the paft, and things to come

foreknew:

Supreme of auguru
S

Dijdtn'i Faila.

Aa

)

,

AVI
Prnp.tious, ever tearing from the right.

Prior.

Shateffcare,

grow fick of their feathers.

My aug'ring mind alTures the iame fuccets.
Dry ({en,
To A'uounATE. V, H. [auguror, Lat.] To
judge by augury.
Aucura'tion, ti.f, [from aafar.] The
praftice of augury, or of foretelling by
events and prodigies.
Claudius Pulcher underwent the like fucccff,
when he continued the tripudary auguralhns,
Brc'WH'i Vulgar Errours,

[from augur.] The fame

Avi'oiTY. n.f.

E-velyn't Kalendar.

Drydtn.
imnulfes to duty, and powerful avocaticni from
fin.
South.

fummons away.
It is a fubjed that we may make fome progrcfs
in its contemplation within the time, that in the

Lat.] Greedinefs} eagernefs; appetite;

DiSl.

A word

with {kill in common life.

To counfel.

1.

With that, the hulbandman 'gan him avixe.
That it for him was fittefl exercife.
Sfen/ir.

With a reciprocal pronoun, to bethink

2.

himfelf s'a'vlj'er, Fr.
But him a-viztng, he that dieadful deed
:

Thefe apparent prodigies.

ordinary time of life, and with the permiflian of
neceifary avocations, a man may employ in fuch a
contemplation.
HaU'i Origin of Mankind.
,
By the fecular cares and avocations which accompany marriage, the clergy have betn turnllhed

Left by a

adj. [a^</V«/, Lat.]

man's anceltors ; ancient.
To Avi'zE. 1/. a. \avijh-, Fr.
'out of ufe.]

with augur.

And the perfuafion of his auguren.
May hold him from the capital to-day. Shaiefp.
Avcv'tLiAt.aJJ. [from augur^y .] Relating

To AVO'ID. -v. a.

commands, and avoiding what he forbids. 'Tillotfon.
To efcape ; as, he atioided the blow by
turning afide.
3. To endeavour to (hun.

Sfcnfir.

The faihion of the world
you encounter it,

To confider; to examine.

3.

Bn-wn.

vinations.

To A'ucuRisB. t>. n. [from <j»^*r.] To
praAife divination by augury.
DU1.
Av'cvtLOVs. adj. [from «»fK;-.] Predifting ; prefcient ; foreboding.

Fairy Sjuecn.

And antique regifters for to avixe,

Spenfcr.

voided the room.

[av>ii(.]

are found in other

excretion.

Belonging to

A'uGURY. n.f. [augurium, Lat.]
pipes.
D/ff.
I. The aft of prognofticating by omens A'u n c K adj. [aulicus, Lat.] Bekjnging to

6;

.

Auln. n.f. [aii/fie, Fr.] A French mea-

Witnefs good breeding.
Sbakeffeart,
The winds are chang'd, your friends from danger free,

Or I renounce my (kill in augury. Dryd. jSneid.
She knew, hy augury divine,
Venus would fail in the defign.

gate ; to figure.
enamel.

Swift.

An omen or prediftion.
What if this death, which is for him defign'd,
Had been your doom (far be that augury
!

And you, not Aurengzebe, condemn'd to die ?
Dryder..

The pow'rs we both invoke
To you, and yours, and mine, propitious be.
And firm our purpofe with an augury.
Dryden.

Upton explains

In golden bulkins of coftly cordwalne.
All hard with golden bendes, which were entail'd
With curious anticks, and full fair aumaiVd.
Fairy S^ueen.

Au'mbry. See Ambry.
Aunt. n.f. \jante, Fr. amita, Lat.] A father

Great;

grand ; royal ; magnificent ; awful.
There is nothing fo contemptible, but antiquity
c«n render it auguji and excellent. Glanvi Scepfa.
The Trojan cliicf appear'd in open fight,

Aguft in vifjge, and fercncly bright;

or mother's

fifter ;

correlative to

Auguji was dedicated to the honour of Auguftus
Cxfar, becaufe in the fame month he was ere iCed
conful, thrice triumpher in Rome, fubdued Egyp^
to the Roman empire, and made an end of civil
wars ; being before called Stxiilis, or the fixth
Piacbam.
from March.

tion of look ; dignity ; loftinels of mien

or afpeft.

A'viARY. n./ [from a-vis, Lat. a bird.]

A

place inclofed to keep birds in.

la aviaria of Wire, to keep birds of all forts,

And Saul call the javelin ; for he faid, I will
fmite David even to the wail with it : and David
avoided out ol his prefence twice.
1 Sam,
2.

1

That which may be avoided, fhunned,

fcarce avoidable.

Want of exa£lnefs in fuch nice experiments is
Boyle,

Shakefpeare.

To take feveral things for granted, is hardly

She went to plain work, and to purling brooks,
Old-falhion'd halls, dull aunti, and croaking rooks.

avoidable to any one, whofe talk it is to Ihew the
falfehood or improbability of any truth.
Locke,

The fruit is or itlelf very inlipid, for which
reafon they generally eat it with the juice of lemof.s and fugar, to give it a poignancy.
Miller.

To A'VOCATE. n). a.
call off from bufmcfs ;

[a'voco, Lat.]

2.

The aft of calling afide.
buftlc of bulinefs, the avocaticnt

of our

fenfes, and the din of i clamoroui world, are im-

pediments.

if there

could have been any iuch
Halt,

pretence, th.it alone would not avoid them.

Avo'i DANCE, n.f [from avoid.]
1 .

The aft of avoiding.
It is appointed to give us vigour in the purfult
of what is good, or in the avoidance of what is

hurtful.

z.

fVatts,

The courfe by which any thing is carried off.
For avoi.lances and drainings of water, where
there is too much, we (hall fpeak of.

Bacoiu

The aft or ftate of becoming vacant.
4. The aft of annulling.
3.

Avoca'tion. n.f. [from a'vocate.]
The

Liable to be vacated or annulled.
The charters were not avoidable for the king's
nonage ; and

To

to call away.

Their divei:ure ol mortality difpenfcs them
from thofe laborious and avocatirg duties to dlfttelled Chriftians, ard their fecular relations,
which are here rcquifite.
Style.

I.

To become void or vacant.

Biihopricks are not included under benefices :
fo that if a perfon takes a biflioprick, it does not
avoid by force of that law of pluralities, but by
the ancient common law.
Ayliffe,
Avo'iDABLE. adj. [from avoid."]

The name of a tree that grows in great

AoGu'sTNESS. n.f. [from augufl.l Eleva-

To retire.

1

Wlio meets us here ? my niece Plantagenet,
Led in the hand of her kind aunt of Gl<f Iter.

plenty in the Spanifh Well Indies.

indufive.

Ol. ».

or efcaped.

Pope.

Dryden.

Bacon*

to annul.

.'

To Avo'iD.

AFOCA'DO. n. /. [Span, perjica, Lat.]

A'oGusT. n.f. [Augujlut, Lat.] The
name of the eighth month from Jan-iary

;

nephew or niece.

His mother goddefs, with her hands divine.

Had form'd his curling locks, and made his tem-

to hinder effeft.
;
The removing that which caufcd putrefaction,

How can thefe grants of the king's be avoided,
without wronging of thofe lords which had thrfe
lands and lord/hips given them
Spenfcr,

to

it,

To oppofe
To vacate

7.

fure of length;

an ell.
To Auma'il. v. a. [from maille, Fr. the
me(h of a net ; whence a coat of aumail,
a coat with network of iron.] To varie-

animals to avoid that ferous
Brc^n's Vulgar Erreiiri.

doth prevent and a'void putrefadlion.

^

the court.

Thy face and thy behavipur,
Which, if my augury deceive me not,

plet flline.

;

Shakefpeare.

Aule'tick. ae//.

Bacoiu

To emit to throw out.
A toad contains not thofe urinary parts which

5.

'Tis pride that pulls the country down

or prodigies.

pray you,

He defired to fpeak with fome few of us
whereupon fix of us only Itayed, and the reft a-

but ftill ufed in the Scotch dia-

Then take thine au/d cloak about thee.

their chariots turn'd

Prefaging in their augurtut hearts the labours that
Chapman^i Iliad.
they mourn'd.

.'

Sbakefpeare,
If any rebel fliould be require^, of the prince
confederate, the prince confederate Ihould command him to avoid the country.
Baeon.

left.

So fear'd

Sbakeffeare.

;

avoid the houfe.

A'ukward. See Awkward.
AvLD. adj. [alb. Sax.] A word now obfolete ;

Xo avoid co^, and

is

to quit.
What have you tu do here, fellow

As they 'gan his library to view,

The fair-man'd horfes, that they flew back, and

[augu/liis , Lzx."]

To evacuate

4.

That when the careful knight 'gan well avixe.

He lightly left the foe.

to decline.

;

The wifdom of plcaling God, by doing what he

No power he had to ftir, nor will to rife

On this foundation were butlt the conclufions
of foothfayers, in their dn^iiria/ and tripudiary di-

AuGu'sT. adj.

To ftiun

I.

jitterbary.

[-vuider, Fr.]

z.

Foibore, and rather chofe, with fccrnful fliame,

Him to avenge.

to augury.

z.

The bttfmefs that calls; or the call that

2.

[a-vidite, Fr. aniiditas,

infatiable defire.

A'viTOus.

him to lay afide.

God does frequently inject into the fiul biclfed

Look now to your aviary ; for now tlie birds

My p;>w*r's a crefcenti and my aug^r'wg hope

It./,

Stir up that remembrance which his many tvi^
cat'ani of bufinels have caufcci

IVcttun't jircbittBure.

to conjefture by figns.
1 he people love me, and the fea is mine.

.

:

AV O

the Italians bellow vail expence; including great'
fcope of ground, variety of buOies, trees of good
height, running waters, and foineiimes a Hove annexed, to contemper the air in the winter.

To A'uGUR. 'v.n. [from augur,'\ Toguel's;

A'v G u R s R

..

A V O

As T and mioe confult thy tupirt
Crant the glad oiren} let thy tav'tite rife

Says i; will come to the full.

;

;

CltnvUk.

Avoi'der. n.j. [from <ifo«</.]
I.

The perfon that avoids or fliuns any
thing,
i.

The

;

.

.

AU R

A V O
2.

3

.

Wllmot

The perfon that carries any thing away.
Tne veflel in which things are carried

againft the ether.

adj. [from aao/V.] Inevitable ; that which cannot be avoided.
That atj':\diijs ruin in wiiich the whole empire

Avo'wER. ». /. [from azKnv.]

to

fly

The^aft of flying away

Avo'wTRY.

To produce in favour of another.

2.

Such antiquities could luve b-^en a-vcucbed for
the

Spnfer'i Jritatid.

Irift).

To vindicate

3.

;

the

firft

teafel,

is

fometinies changed into the aurclia of a

butterfly,

fometimes into a fty-cafe. RayonCrial.
[auricula, Lat.]

Two appendages of the heart

2.

The omens of any future undertaking
drawn from birds.
Proteftion ; favour (hewn.

Ben fonfon,
Influence; good derived to others from
the piety of their patron.
But fo may he live long, that town to fwayt
Which by his aujpice they will nobler make.
As he will hatch their alhes by his ftay. DryJen.
Auspi'ci al. fl(^'. [irom aufpice.^ Relating to prognolticks.

Auspi'cious, adj. [from aufpice.^^
Having omens of fuccefs.
1
You are now, with happy and aufpicicous .beginnings, forhiing a model of a Chtiflian charity.
Spratt,

Profperous ; fortunate: applied to perfons.

;

Aujpiciou! chief! thy race, in times to come,
Shall Ipread the conquelis of imperial Rome. Dryd*

3.

They move

regularly like tht
heart, only in an inverted order ; their

to juftify.

You will think you trade no offence, if the duke

auj'culto,

3.

2.

being
two mufcular caps, covering the two
ventricles thereof; thus called from the
refemblance they bear to the evternal
ear.

[from

Si long.

A fort of pear; which

ear which is prominent from the head.

Shaktfj). King Lear.

2.

The external ear, or that part of the

Wretched though I feem,
I can produce a champion that Will prove

1.

A'uRicLE. n.f.
1.

/.

Great father M.irs, and greater Jove,

A term ufed for
apparent change of the eruca,
or maggot of any fpecies of infecls.
Chambers.
The fjlitary maggot, found in the dry heads ot

Biiokcr

71.

Lat.] A hearkening or liftening to. DiH.
A'USPICE. n.f. \aufpiciiim, Lat.]

By whofe high aujpicc Rome hath ftood

fee.

To affirm ; to maintain ; to declare
peremptoFily.
Th-y bjidiy avtuchrH that themfelves only had

Ausculta'tion.

Auowtrv.]

Aure'lia. n.f. [Lat.]

:

What is avcucbed here.

[See

f.

Adultery.

A'uRATE. n. /.

To Avo'ucH. v. a. \a'uouer, Fr. for this
word we now generally fay vouch.'\

the truth, which thfy would at ali times deiend.

n.

^ncy.
Some aurum fulniinam the fabrick (hook. Gartb,

Dm.

feflion.

flight : efcape.
Thefe airy vcgeubles are made by the relicks of
plantal emiflives, wh&fc avblaticn was prevented
Glamj'tlU^i Scc^i:.
by the condenfeJ enclofurc.
Strangers, or the fungous parcels about candies,
oniy fignify a pluvious air, hindering the a'vclaBrcnvni f^uJg. Err.
tioK of the favillous paiticlcs.

1.

Lw,

where one takes a diftrels for rent, or
otlier thing, and the other fues replevin.
In which cafe the taker Ihall juftify, in
his plea, for what caufe he took it ; and,
if he took it in his own right, is to (hew
it, and fo avow the taking, which is
called his azvwry.
Chambers.
Avo'wsAL. ». y. [from co/o-ti'.] A con-

Arbuthnot en Coins.
a-jolo,

In

is

Romans left their ounce in Bri-

Lat.]

avvay,

DrytUn.

Avo'wRY. n.f. [from i7i;ow.]

tain, which is now our a'v^'irdu^w ounce : for out

Avola'tion. n. f. [from

ing in the night from the north.
A preparation made by diflblving gold in aqua
regia, and precipitating it with fait of
tartar ; whence a very fmall quantity of
it becomes capable, by a moderate heat,
of giving a report like that of a piftol.

AU'RVM Fulminans. [Lat.]

He that

virrues.

A

kind of weight, of which a pound
contains fixteen ounces, and is in proportion to a pound Troy, as feventeen
All the larger and coarfer
to fourteen.
commodities are weighed by a-voirdupois
Chambers.
weight.

wc had elfcwhere.

AURO'RA

avows or juftifies.
Virgil makes ^neas a bold avoivtr of his own

Dennises Lett^n.

Avoir Dupo'is. n.f. [wvoir dupoids, Fr.]

trrjy ounce

Aurora ftieds
On Indus' fmiling banks the rofy (hovrer. Tiji^t
Borealis. [Lat.] Light ftream-

excepted
Ctartni.n.

the right of advowfon of any church belongs.
!)/<?.

Avo'iDLESs.

Probably the

A U S

not evmvedly have

Avowee', n.f. [avoue, Fr.] He to whom

away.

would be involved.

could

Favourable; kind; propitious:
plied to perfons, or afiions.

ap-

Fortune play upon thy profp'rous helm,

As thy aujfifious miftrefs
Shakefpeare»
Lucky ; happy : applied to things.
!

avouch thcjullice of ynut dealing.

correfponding to the diaftole of
4.
the heart.
Chambers.

fyftole

Staktfpeare't Mttijure for Meafitre.

Avo'ucH. n.f. [from the verb.]

Decla-

ration ; evidence ; teftimony.
1 might not this believe.
Without the fenfible and xx^^cavottib
Of mine own eyes.
SbaUfp. Bamltt.

Blood

A pure, an aftive, an aufpicious flame.

Ray on th^ Creation.

AuRi'cuLA. »./.

See Bears Ear.

And bright as heav'n, from whence the blelTing

A

came.

flower.

avouches.

To AVO'W. -V. a. [a-vouer, Fr.] To declare with confidence ; to jullify ; not
to difTemblc.
s CI uei l^cpdanic, feeing what was done.
Her wicked days with wretched knife did end j
In death tmovting^ib^ innocence of her fon.

H

Within the fenfe or reach of hearing.
You Ihall hear us conter, and bv an aurnular
afTurance have your fatisfatlion.

z.

&hak. K. Lear,
Secret ; told in the ear ; as, auricular

confeffion.

AUSTE'RE. adj. [aujierus, Lat.]

Traditional; known by report.
The alchymifts call in many var ctics out of

3.

aftrology, auricular traditions,

and feigned

;

Thy fword can perfcft what it has begun. Dryden.
Auspi'ciousLV, ad'v. [from flK/^/a'o«r.]
Happily ; profperoufly ; with profperous omens,
Auspi'ciousNESS. n.f. [from aufpicieus-l
Profperity ; promife of happlneCs.

the ear.]

I.

Ro/common,

Two battles your aujpicioui caufe has won

Avo'ucH ABLE. adj. [from a'vou(h.'\ That
Auri'cular. adj. [from auricula, Lat.]
may be avouched.
Avo'ocHER. H.f. [from <i«e«rj&.] He that

I'll deliver all.

And promife you calm feas, aujpicioui gales.
And fails expeditious.
Sbakefpeare^s Tempcji^

be ready to join with the chyle,
before it reaches the right auricle of the heart.
fliiuld

1.

tk-lli-

Severe; harfh ; rigid.
When men reprelent the Divine -nature as an

[frotu auricuJar.]

up hit
to take vengeance, fuch conceptions mud
unavoidably raiie terror.
Rogcri*

Boyle.

Thele will foon cotrt'els, and that not auricularly,

From whence this wrath ? or who controuls thy

From publick fhame to fcreen my fecret love. Dryd,

Auri'ferous. adj. [ojiri/er, Lat.] That

Fairy Slueert.

He that delivers them mentions his doing it
npon hi^ own particular kno-A edge, or the relation
of fomc ci edible perfon, avvwi.ig it upon his <iwn
experience.
Lett to myfelf, I muft avow, 1 drove

Such

anertior.s

monies.

AuRi'ct/LARLY. ad-v.

aujlere iViA rigorous mailer, always lifting

Bacon.

hand

In a fecret manner.
but in a loud and audible voice.

proceed from principles which

Aujiere Saturnius, fay

fway f

Decay of Piiiy.
2.

Fope.
harfli.

Th' aujlere and pond'rous juices they fublime.

which produces gold.

cannot be ativwed by thofe who arc for prefcrving
church and ftate.
Siuifr.
Then blaz'd hit fmotherM flame, avviu^d and
h'Ai.
-.:.
'Ihomjon.

Souroftafte;

Make them afcend the porous foil, and climb
The orange-tree, the citron, and the lime.

Rocks rich in gems, and mountains big with
mines,
,

Whence many a burfting ftream euriferoas plays.
Thonf'^n.

'

Blackntorem
Aujicre wines, diluted with water, cool mora
than water alone, and at the fame time dn not relax.

Avo'wABLE. adj. [from aruonu."] That Aurica'tion.
n.f. [auriga, Lat.] The
Arbuthnot on Alimenti,
which may be openly declared; that
aft or praftice of driving carriages. Diii. AutTE'RELY. adv. [from aujiere.\
Sewhich may be declared without Ihame.
Avo'wAL. tt f. [from a-vo-w^

Juftificatory

declaration ; open declaration.

Avo'wEDLv. ad'v. [from «xr»w.] In an
open ffianaer.

AuRIPICMe'ntUM. SeeORPIMENT.
AURO'RA. n.f. [Lat.]
1

A fpecies of crowfoot.

2.

The goddefs that opens

Ah! Luciana, did he tempt thee fo ^
Might'ft thou perceive, aujlerely in his eye,
That he did plead in earnell ?

the gates of

day ; poetically, the morning.
10

verely ; rigidly.

I

Sbakcfpeart,

Hypocrites aujitrely talk
Of purity, and place, and innocence.

S 2

Par. Loft.

AuSTe'KS-

..

A U T

A'UTHOR. »./ at,aor, [Lat.]

Severity ; ftriftnefs ; rigour.
My UDl'oU'd name, th' auflerittefi of my life,

thing ; he to

Austb'rity. n.f. [from auftert.'\
Severity ; mortified life ; ftriftnefs.
Now, Marcus Cato, our new conful's fpy,

"WJiit it your SaMt eujiirity fent t' explore f

Ben yonfcn*
What was that fnaky-headed Gorgon fliield
That wife Minerva wore, unconquer'd \irgin.
'

Wherewith (he freei'd her foes to confeal'd ftone.
But rigid looks of challe auftiriiy.

And noble grace, thatdafli'd brute violence
MUtiK.

This prince kept the government, and yet lived
in his convent with all the rigour aad aufier'ity of
a Capuchin.

Mdtjm.

i. Cruelty ; harfli difcipline.
Let not oujleriiy breed fervile fear
;
No wanton found offend her virgin ear. Ro/cmmcri.

A'usTRAL. 4ii/j. [auftralis, Lat.]

South-

The

2.

efficient

;

he that

New authors of diffention fpring from him
Two branches, that in hofting long contend
For fov'reign fway.

and words, which a tranflafor has not.

Dryden.

Nothing can be more pleafant than to fee virtuofos about a cabinet of medjis, defcantlng upon

AuTHo'RiTATiVELY.aa'i'. [from autho-

the value, rarity, and aethenticalrefi of the feveral

In an authoritative manner ; with a
ihew of authority.
2. With due authority.

Making herfelf an impudent fuitor, authorizing
herfelf very much, with

making

us fee, that all

favour and power depended upon her.
Sidney*
Deaf to complaints, they wait upon the ill.
Till fome fafe crifis authorize their /kill. Dryden,

To make any thing legal.

2.

Yourfelf firft made that titie which I claim,
me love, and authcrisi'd my fiame. Dryd*
1 have nothing farther to defire.
But Sancho's leave to authorize our marriage.
Dryden*
To have countenanced in him irregularity, and
difobedience to that light which he had, would
have been, to have authorized diforder, confufion,
Locke*
and wickednefs, in his creatures.

Firft bid

3.

To eftablifh any thing by authority.
Lawful it is to devile any cereminy, and to au*
thorize any kind of regimen, no fpccial command-

Hoskcr,
ment being thereby violated.
Thofe forms are beft which have been longcil
received and authorized in a nation by cutlom and

Temple*

ufc.

4.

No law foreign binds in EnglanJ, till it be re-

To juftify

to prove a thing to be right.
AH virtue lies in a power of denying our own
defires, where reafon does not authorize them.
;

ceived, and authoritatively engrafted, into the law

of England.

thoritati've.]

An afting by authority

authoritative appearance.

Of whatflieguefs'd belorewith jealous fear. Cowley.

opinions injurious unto truth. BrovJn^syuig. Err*
Be a perfon in vogue with the multitude, he
ftiall authorize any nonfcnfc, and make incoherent
ftuff, feafoned with twang and tautology, pafs for

prietor ofthe wholeworld, he had any authority over
men, could not have been inherited by any of his

But eenfure 's to be underftood

The authentick mark of the elcfl.
The publick ftamp Hcav'n fcts on all that's great

children.

2.

Although their intention be fincere, yet doth it

Z);V?.

Idle old man.
That ftill would manage thofe authorities
That he hath given away
Shakefp. K. Lear.
Adam's fovereignty, that by virtue of being pro-

She joy'd th' authentick news to hear.

To give credit to any perfon or thing.
notorioufly ftrengthen vulgar errour, and autherixt

Legal power.

Mill.

5.

;

Autho'rity. ii.f. [auiSoritas, Lat.]
1

Locke.

Hale.

Autho'ritativeness. n.f. [from aa-

It is

Authe'ntickness. ». y." [from authentick. \
The fame with authotticitj.

To give authority to any perfon.

1.

1

That which has every thing requifite to

After an authentick manner.

but from their admiffion and reception,
and authorization in this kingdom.
Hale>

ritati've.]

^UTHE-NTICK. a/^'. [aut&eftticus. Lat.]

S-ui\ft.

The obligation of laws aril'es not from their

Having due authority.
Having an air of authority.

1 .

2.

genuinenefs ; authority.

and good.

Hooker,

Autho'ritative. adj. [from authority.]

Siuth.

AtJT H e'n T I CK ty. ad'v. [from authentick.']

They confider the main confent of all the
churches in the whole world, \vitneifing the facred
authority of fcriptures. ever fitheiicc the lirft publication thereof, even till this prcfent day and hour.

Yet their own autLo,rs faithfully affirm
That the land Salike lies in Germany.
Sbaiefp.

1 dare not give them the auihorifative title of
aphoiifms, which yet may make a reafonable mora!
yrognofiick.
TVottcn.
The mock aufhoritathve manner of the one, and
the infipid mirth of the other. Stviffs Examiner.

Interpreter through higheft heav'n to bring.

gency of evidence.

A writer in general.

4.

Authe'nticalness. n./. [from authentica/.] The quality of being authentick;

nfedof perfons. Genuine; not fidlitious.
Thou art wont his great autlentick will

Gianville^s Scepfis*

To Au'thorize. v. a. [cttitorifer, Fr.]

Philips.

eth to the firft author of the ftory. 1 Mac. ii. 30
An author has the choice of his own thoughts

tical.}

ufed in oppofition to any
thing by which authority is deftroyed,
as authentick, not counterfeit. It is never

was liable

Weight of teftimony ; credibility ; co-

6.

from the tranjlator or compiler.
To ftand upon every point in particulars, belong-

Na/c.

gifter.

I

to have been overborne by a torrent oi authorities.

3. The firft writer of any thing ; diftinfl

Awthe'ntically. ad-v. [from authen-

give it authority; as, an authentick re-

Having been fo hardy as to undertake a charge
againft the phllofnphy of the fthools,

matter,

have no aMttemicai ttcotds, but only tranfcripts.

thentick.

introduce the teftimony of ancient writers, to confirm things evidently believed. Brow.'s f^ulg.Err,

Authoriza'tion. n.f. \_(tom authorixe.]

;

Authority ; genuinenefs ; the being au-

mdney^

We urge authorities in things that need not, and

From his loins

Southern; fouthernly.

AuTHENTi'ciTY. «./. [from aulbetifici,']

Ben Jmjem.

Something I have heard of this, which I would
be glad to find by fo fweet an authority confirmed.

Eftablifhment by authority.

Authe'ntical. adj. [from authentick.]

commands or forbids it firft.

Tim. ii. u.

Doft thou eipcQ th' authority of their voices,

Whofe filent wills condemn thee ?
5. Teftimony.

And flings abouthis foam, impatient of the wound

A'usTRiNE. adj. [from auflrinus, Lat.J

Confcience never commands or forbids any thing
authentically, but there is fome law of God which

I

Support ; juftification ; countenance.

4.

The wound's great author clofe at hand provokes
Kis rage.
Dryden'i Fables.

treme, and <»^ra//a:f at another. BrovitCs Vulg<Err,

This point is dubious, and not yet authentically
Bro^vns J^ulgar Errours.

Shale^are,
with poor Antonio.
But 1 fuffer not a woman to teach, nor to ulurp
authority over the man, but to be in iilence.

Sbakefpeare,

Steel and good iron difcovcr a verticlty, or polar
faculty ; whereby they do feptentriatc at one ex-

decided.

my lord.

It will go hard

effefts or pro-

Now while tlie tortur'd favage turns around.

After an authentick manner ;
with all the circumltances requifite to
procure authority.

I know,

prove the immediate author of their variance.

fouth.

Of ftatutes made before time of memory, we

rule.

If law. authority, and pow'r deny not.

duces any thing.
Thit which is the (trength of ihcir amity, fliall

ern ; as, the aujiral figns.
Ta A'usTRALizE. v. n. [from aufter, the
fouth wind, Lat.] To tend towards the

Not fiftitious ; being what it feems.

Power;

3.

That law, the auihentni obfervcr whereof is one
only God, to be bicffed for ever.
Hv>ker.
The authcr of that which caufeth another thing
to be, is author o{ that thing alfo which thereby is
ca\ifed.
Hooker.
I'll never
Be fuch a goding to obey inftirfl j but fljnd
As if a man was author ofhimfelf.
And knew no other kin.
Shaiefp. Crriolanus.
Thou art my father, thou my ahth'.r, thou
My being gav'/l me; whom Ihould 1 obey
But ihte ?
Milton i Paradife Loji.
But Faunus came from Plcua, PIcus drew
His birth from Saturn, if records be true.
Thus king Latinu;, in the third degree,
Had Saturn author of his family.
Dryden.
If the worftiip of falfe gods had not blinded the
heathen, inf^ead of teaching to wor/hip the fun,
and dead heroes, they would have taught us to
worfliip our true Author and bcnefador, as their
anceft^irs did under the government of Noah and
his fons, before they corrupted themfelves. Neiuton.

draw this eufitrcniji into a fmile, he hardly could
refift the proper motives thereof, imiiu'i Vulg> Er.
2. Roughnefs in tafte.

Lccke*

whom any thing owes its

original.

If «n indifferent and unridlculous objedt could

With fudden adoration and blank awe ?

where thofe that call themfelves civil and rational,
go out of their way, by the autboriij of example.

The firft beginner or mover of any

1.

May vouch againft you ; and my place i' th" ftjtt
WUl fo your accufation ovciwcigh. Shaktjfrarc.

I.

A U T

A U T

/uste'reness. a./, [from aufttre.'\
1.

;

!

Locke.

Influence ; credit.
Power arifing from ftrength, is always in thofe
that are governed, who arc many : but authority
arifing from opinion, is in thofe that govern, who
Temple.
are few.

Tiic woods are fitter to give rules than titles.

South*

rhetorlck.

AuTo'crASY.

». f.

[auTsxjaTJia,

and K^a-©-, power.]
fupremacy.
pendent power
(itPT©-, felf,

from
Inde~

;

Autocra'phical. adj. [irota autograDi3.
phy.] Of one's own writing.

Autography, n.f. [iinoyoapat, from
and yfaipw, to write.]

A

particuor the original of a treatife, in oppofition to a copy.
ctuTOf,

lar perfon's

own writing

;

Automa'ti.-

.

AuTOM a'tical. adj. [from «a«»«/t/e».]

a more grave and magnificent word is
put inllead of the proper word.

Belonging to an automaton ; having the
power of moving itfelf.

Auto'maton. n. f.
J

In the
plural, automata.] A machine that hath
the fower of motion within itfelf, and
which Hands in need pf no foreign affiftance.
^incy.
[a^Tof<.«Tot.

I

Mix*d with auxiliar gods.
Milton'i Par. Lrji.
Their traftates are Vittlc auxiliiiry unto ours, nor
afFord us any light to detenebrate this truth.

Brvtun's Vulgar Errours.

There is not the fmalieft capillary vein but it
is

[from automaton.']

Is Jove content to pour his

Brcwtl^s yul^ar Errours.

Auto'nom Y. »./. [i.vrc,tnf/.{a.] The living

To help him with auxiliary waves.

[ivTo^U.]

»,/.

determined his will to a full choice of God. Scuth.
There are, indeed, a fort of underling auxiliaries
to the difficulty of a work, called commentators
and criticks.
Pope.

monllration ; feeing a thing one's felf.

^incy.

Auxiliary Verb.

A

verb that helps to
conjugate other verbs.

AvTo'pT\CAL. adj. [from autof.y.] Perceived by one's own eyes.

In almuft all languages, fome of the commoneft
nf'Uns and verbs have many irregularities} fuch arc

Au t o'p t c a l l y. ad-v. [from autoptical. ]
I

and to be done, &c.

difpute.

Br<.ivn.

That the galaxy is a meteor, was the account
of Ariftotle ; but the telelcope hath auioftkal/y
confuted it and he, who is not Pyrthonian enough
to the dilbelief of his fenfes, may fee that it is no
exhalation.
G.'anfille't Scrpfi:

n. f.

1 .

ment; fentence; determination.
Now hear th' award, and happy m»y it prove
To her, and him who bell deferves her love.
Dryden.'

[from auxiliatus,

AffcAion bribes the judgment, and we cannot
expedl an equitable award, where the judge is

made a party.

To expeft ; to wait for.

Prompted by blind revenge and wild defpair.

Betwixt the rocky pillars Gabriel fat.
Chief of th'argeli;k guards, <i«i<a«m^ night. Milt.

To attend

Were .to refufe th' a*wards of Prov idence.
Addijon's Caf<.

Awa're. adv. [from a, and ivare, an old
word for

tautious ; it is however, perhaps, zxiadjeilive ; jepapian, Sax ] Excited to caution ; vigilant ; in a ftate of

to be in ftore for.
To fliew thee what reward
Awaits the good ; the reft, what punifhment.
;

alarm ; attentive.

Alil!on.

Ere I was aware, I had left myfelf nothing 'out

Unlefs his wrath be, apprafed, an eternity of
torments aiuaiis tire objcfts of his difpleafure.
Rogers.

not be over-confident, till he hath pafled

Awa'it. H./. [from the verb.] Ambuih.

Wijcman'x Surgery.

See Wait.
And Icaft mlfhap the moft blifs alter may

The flarving brood,
Void of fufficient fuftenance, will yield

the name of a king.

Autumn, nodding o'er the yellow plain,

No Spring or fummcr's beauty hath fuch grace,

bear away foniething elfe befides his own forrow,
Sidney's Arcadia.Temptations of profperit)" rnfrnuate themfclves;

As I have feen in one autumnal face.
Thou /halt not long

able to vvirhftand

About us daily, to work our decay.
Sfen/er.
'V. a.
[peccian. Sax.]
To
aivaie has the reterite aiuoke, or, as we

To Aw a' Hi. V.

[

Paradifc Lo/I,

This pafTage is by others underftood
thus He warned thofe, who were atuare,

How you awake our fie eprng Iword of war. Sbake/jp.

Not the fair fruit that on yon branches glows
With that ripe red tit' autumnal fun bellows.
Pefr.

Avu'lsion. It./, [a-vuljto, Lat.] The aft
of pulling one thing from another.
Spare not the little offjjrings, if they grow
but the thronging clufters thin
;

Redundant

By kind atu-fim.
Pbirtft.
The prcfTure of any ambient fluid can be nu
intelligible caufe of ihecohefion of matter;

though
fuch a p-etTu e may hinder the a-vutfir.n of two pofiflied fuperficies one from another, in a line perprnHifuh'- to them.
Lockt.

Our friend Laz:irus lleepeth ;
may ati-ake him out of fleep.

tJVXE'SIS. n.J. [Latin.] An increafing;
an exoinauon, wlien, lor amplification,

go that 1
Johny xi. 1.

but

I

1

To raife from any ftate refembling fleep.
H.irk, hark, the horrid found

:

of themfelves.
Awa'y. ad-v. [apej, Saxon.]
1
In a ftate of abfence ; not in any partLcular place.

Has raised up his he.td
As atvayd from tlic dead,
And amazd, he flares rounl. Dryd. St. Cacilia.
3. To put into new aftiun.
The fpark of noble corragc now awake.
:

And llrivc your excellent felt to excel.
The fair

And calls forth all the wonders of her face.
-v. n.

They could make
Love to yourdrefs, although your face were tf^ViTy.
Btn Jonfon's Cataline*
It is impoUIWe to know properties that are fr»
annexed to it, th.it any of them being away, that

F. Siuten.

efTcr.ce is

2.

Repairs her fmiles, a-waktns cv'ry grace.

To Awa'ke.

6e

to

Inflant, without diflurb, they took alarm.

Take heed.

I.

To beware;

To roufe out of fleep.

Dinne.

Or lightning, thou fljalt fall.
Miltcn.
Bind now up yout autumnal flowers, to prevent
fudden gufts, which will proftrate all.
Eve/yn.

n.

cautious.
So warn'd he them awart themfelves ; and

now more commonly fpeak, a'waked.]

like an autumnal ftar,

that we are but little aware of them, and lefsthem.
Atterburv,

fo

;

To Awa'ke.

I .

Sidt:ey.-

Ere forrow was aware, they made his thoughti

For thoufand perils lie in dofe await
Pb'tlipt,

Comei jovial on.
Thomfcn.
All rv' MUM.. adj. [from autumn.'] Belonging to autumn ; produced in autumn.

Glawjille.

To urge the fbe.

^haitjpeare.

;

1 h' unwife award to lodge it in the tow'rs.
An ofl"'ring facrcd.
P-ife's OdyjTey,Awa'rd. »./. [from the verb.] Judg-

Even as the wTCtch condemnM to lofe his life
Awaits the falling of the murJ'ring knife. Fairfax.

2.

To judge; to deter-

mine.

Wait.]

For 1 will board her, though flie chide as loud
As thunder, when the clouds in autumn crack.

Rule In the clouds

To Awa'rd. 'V. n.

Help ; aid ; fuccour.
Did.
To Awa'it. -v. a. [from a and aua//. See

n./. [autumnus, Lat.]
The
feafon of the year between fumraer and

A (lender autumn.

A

church which allows falvation to none without it, nor aivards damnation to almo.l any withinSouth*
it.
Satlsfadlion for every affront cannot be atvarded
Collier on Du, Uing.
by ftatcd laws.

Lat.]

A'uTUMN.

a fpring or autumn.

grand bufinefs, and according

to which their eternity hereafter will be atvardeJ.
Decay of Piety,

IVatts.

AuxiLi a'tion.

:

winter, beginning allronomically at the
equinox, and ending at the folftice ; popularly, autumn comprifes Augull, September, and Oftober.

It advances that

the common auxiliary verbs, to be and to hwue, to do

By means of one's own eyes.
Were this Uue, it would autoftically lilence that

Stakcffeare,

Dryden.

In the ftrcngth of that power, he might, without the auxilidriis of any further influence, have

Ocular de-

In thofc that have forked tails, autopjy convinceth us, that it hath this ufe. Ray im the Crrathn.

The court awards it, and the law doth give it.

derate.

Did.

tion.

A pound of that fame merchant's flefh is thine;

vengeance down ;

Auxi'liar. \n.f. \iTomauxilium,\.,2il.]
Auxi'li A RY. J Helper j afllftant ; confe-

according to one's mind and prefcrip-

A'uTOPsy.

with A-wake.
Awake Argantyr, Hervor the only daughter
Hiekeu
Of thee and Suafu doth awaken thee.
To Aw.\'rd. f. a. [derived by Skinner,
fomewhat improbably, from peapb. Sax.
towards.]
To adjudge ; to give any
thing by a judicial fentence.

Aid from his brother of the feas he craves.

Clocks, or automarra^ organs, whereby we diftinguifii of time, have no mention in ancient writers.

prefent with, and auxiliary to it, according to
Hales Origin of Mankind.
Nor from -his patrimonial heav'n aline

its ufc.

Having in itfelf the power of motion.

I would

Dryden.

That fought at Thebes and Ilium on each fide,

fViik'wj,

adj.

Cares (hall not keep him on the throne aivake.

Nor break the golden flumbers he would take.

ToAwa'ken. <v. a. i.nd.'v.n. The fame

The giant brood.

The particular circumllances for which the automata of this kind are moft eminent, may be

Auto'matous.

Imagination is like to work better upon fleeping
Baccn*

men, than men a'tvake.

federate.

G/ami/le's Scejjis.

reduced to four.

Not being

afleep ; not fleeping.

Smith's Rhetortck.

For it is greater to underhand the art, whereby
the Almighty governs the motions of the greac
autcmaton, than to have learned the intrigues of
policy.

Awa'ke. adj. [from the verb.]

Auxi'li AR. 1 adj. [from aa.i:;7/'aOT, Lat.]
Auxi'li ARY. J Affiltant ; helping; con-

j
1

A W A

A W A

A U X

Pofe.

To break from fltep

not there.

Locke*

From any place or perfon^
I

have a. pa n u])on my forehead here
that's with watching ; 'twill away again.

— Wiiy

;

Slakcfpeare*

to ccafe to fleep,
Alack, I am afraid thty Vivtawak'd,
And 'tis not done
Sbakefp. Macbeth.
I awaked up
lad of all, as one that gatheretn

When the fowls came down upon the carcafes,

I

after the grape- jath<yers.

Ecduu xxxiii. 16.

Abiaha.n drove them a-way a^jain.
Gen.xv. ij.
Woul you yjuljj and beauty flay.
Love hath wings, and will away.
Waller,
1

Summer funs rolt unpcrceiv'd atcay.

Pofe,

3.

Let

;

:

;

A W F

Know, then, that fome of us are gentlemen.

^lujy, old mui; give me thy band ; noay;
Kiog Lear hath loft, he and his daughter ta'cn ;
Give me thy band. Comeoa. Sbaluff.KingLair.
4.

Begone.

Jhvsy, an J glifter like the god of war,
When he intendeth to become the fifld.
the wwds among the happier brutes

Come, let 's tnaay ; hark, the fliriU horn refounds.
Smifh't Phadra and Hiffoliiut.

It c )ncerns every man, who will not trifle away

A'wFULNESs. n.f. [fromatv/ul.]
1. The quality of ftriking
with awe;

his foul, and fo'l himfelf into irrecoicraSle mifery, to enquire intu thefe matters.
Tilbtfin,

folemnity.

thing.

that

He p'ay'd his life atoay*
Pope,
perhaps
7. On the way ; on the road
this is the original import of the following phrafe.

2.

8.

Shaicjf.

Perhaps the phrafe, he cannot aivay ivitk,

may mean, he cannot traneliiuith; he cannot bear the company.

She never could atuay with me.
Never,
never ! (he would always fay, (he could ,iot abide
Matter Shallow,
Stjifffeiirj.
9.

,

This thought filed upon him who is only to be
feared, G.vd : and yet with a filial fear, which at
the fame time botli fears and loves.
It was avie
without amazement, and dread without di(tra6Hon.

pits, as the (leeples ;

A'wKWARD. adj. [aepanb, Saxon; that is,
backward, untoward.]
I.

with awe, or

z.

unhandy;

So true, that he Wisaiv^tvard at a trick. Dryden.

Millont Paradlfc Loji.
approach the; thus, and gaze
Infatiate ; 1 thus huge; nor liav' feared
Thy tiivftti Dio«, m >fe atvful thus (eti''d,
Ttii'.af.ce of hy Miker fair
F^i-elt
-I
Mth v
!

Worftjipful! inrtuthority; inverted with
Tills lenle is obfulcte.

tive lei}.']

Wanting reverence; void of refpeft-

1.

ful fear.
Againft whofe fury, and the unmatched force,
The awlefs lion could not wage the fight. Sbakefp,
He claims the bull with aiuleft infolence.
And having feiz'd his horns, accoAs the prince.
Diydcn.

Wanting the power of caufmg reverAh mc.l 1 fee the ruin of my houfe ;
Inlulcing tyranny begins to jut

Upon the iimocent and awleh throne.

3.

Perverfe ; untoward.

A kind and cnnftant friend
To all that regularly olfcna

fteckans, or twenty verges or verteels ;

anfwering to what in England is called
a tierce, or one-fixth of a ton of France,
or one-feventh of an Englilh ton.
Arbuthnot.
AwN. n.f. [«r//?a, Lat.] The beard growing out of the corn or grafs.
Chambers.

A'wNiNG. n.f. A cover fpread

over a
boat or veflel, to keep off the weather.
of thefe boards I made an a'wning over jne.
Rab.nfon Crufee.

Awo'k e.

The preterite from atuake.

And (he fai J, th^ Phililtines be upon thee, SampAnd he uiu^ke out of his (leep.

fon.

not dexterous;

Si -w to rcfolvc, but in performance quick;

fills

I

dignity.

Unready;
clumfy.

S onofm. that '.vith honour thou may'it love
Thy matei who Ices, when iti >u art fe-n lealt wfe.

i

un-

rhey are judged of by their handfome ox aiukivard
way of exprcliing themfelves in it.
Locke.
An atvktvard (hame, or fear of ill ufage, has a
(hare in this conduct.
Swift'

with reverence.

S.

untaught;

Proud Italy,

/ [from aiue and band. ] A
itrikes

unpolite ;

Whofe manners (till our tardy, apifli nation
Limps alter in bafe anvktvard imitation. Shahfp.
Their own language is worthy their care ; and

A'wpuL. adj. [from (Jifi? andy*//.]
That which

Inelegant;
genteel.

of t'leir goodnefs, jiiltice, and other virtue., will
work on more.
A'frhury.

Di£i.

and profelTors ringing as aivh

VEflrange.

The rods and yxes of princes, and their deputies, mayaw> m^ry into obedience; but thefame

n.

A'wLEss. adj. [from awe, and the nega-

The tyger now hath feiz'd the gentle hind i

as the bells to give notice of the conflagi a. ion.

Beav'n, that hath plac'd this ifland to give law;

.

Hooker..

You may likcwife prick many holes with aa
awl, about a joint that will lie in the earth.
'
Alortinier' s Hujhandry.

Sh^ikfp. Rich. III.
AwK. adj. [ A barbarous contrailion of the
AwME, or AuME. n. /. A Dutch meafure
word aniukivard.'] Odd ; out of order.
of capacity for liquids, containing eight
We have heard as arrant jangling in the pul-

Mi/tor

check.

Sbakefp.

Stood on the brink of hell, and lonk'd anvhile.
Pond'ring his voyage.
Alihdns Paradife LoJ}.

To balance Europe, and her (tates to aive- fVailer

A'w B B A N D

petual fcrvant, ihauld, for a vilible token thereof, have aUu his ear bored through with an avil.

ence.

Into this wild abyfs the wary fiend

know his nature and faOiIons, and fo lead him;

His wur.liippers ?

airs ate

A pointed
inftrument to bore holes.
.»
He which was minded to make himfelf a per-

2.

Stay, (iay, I fay

awkward

fyttrts's Impnvetr.ent of the Mind.

»

And if you love me, as you fay you do.
Let me peifuade you to forbear aivbite.

South.

or his ends, and fo perfuade him; or his weakne(rc8 And difadvantages, and fo anve him ; or
thofe that have interelt in him, and fo govern him.
Bacon.
Why then was this forbid ? Why, but to eioetWhy, bu; to keep you low and ignorant.

my dear goflip, anfwer'd then the ape.
your fad words my v/'its aivhafe

theft

AwL. n. f. [aele, ale. Sax.]

puted an adverb, is only a luhile, that is,
a time, an interval.] Some time ; fome
fpace of time.

Sftnjer's State af Ireland.

If you will wpik on any man, you mult eithci

them ; but
worn away in company.

•teardnffi in

To

Both for becaufe your grief doth great appear.
And eke becaufe myfelf am touched near.
HuUerd's Tale.
Awhi'le. ad'z'. [This word, generally re-

parents, without precepts of mailers, and without

fubjedion.

jiddijcn.

All his airs of behaviour have a certain aiok-

arms, took their denomination.]
ftrike ; to confound ; to terrify.

Ah

What is the proper aviie and fear, which is dur
from man to God ?
Rogers.
To Awe. -v. a. [from the noun.] To ftrike
with reverence, or fear ; to keep in

of being ftruck with awe

To Awha'pe. "v. a. [This word I have
met with only in Spenjer, nor can 1 difcover whence it is derived ; but imagine, that the Teutonic language had
anciently txiapen, to ftrike, or fome fuch
word, from which -weapons, or offenfive

Deeply d

fear of ofl^erce.

.

ftate

If you dare think of deferving our cliarms,

reverence.
They all be br; ugfit up idly, without aioe of

I.

The

Aioay •with your (heephooks, and take to your
arms.
DryJm.
n.f. [eje, oj^a, Saxon.] Reverential fear ;

'

One m >y obferve awkzvardne/s !o the Italians,
which eafily difcovcrs their airs not to be natural.

AddifoK.

!

odd-

nefs ; unfuitablenefs.

^

An help to prayer, producing in us reverence
and awfulnefs to the divine majiffy of God.
tayhrt Rule of Huhig holy.

Aiuay luith. Throwaway; take away.

AWE.

Inelegance ; want of gentility ;

little ufed.

:

Sir Valentine, whitiier atuay fo fad ?

MM.

A'WKWARDNESS. »./. [ftom a'wk-ward.'\

Thefe objeils naturally raife ferioufnefs; and
night heightens the aiufulmji of the place, and
pours out her fupernumerary horrours upon every

6. It is often ufed with a verb ; as, to drink

anvay an eflate ; to idle aivay a manor
is, to drink or idle till an eAate or
manor is gone.

Locke,
If any pretty creature is void of genius, and
would pcrtorm her part but a'wkiuartiiy, I mud
ncverthelefs infilt upon her working.
yiddifon.
She (till renews the ancient fcene ;
Forgets the forty j-ears between ;
jliokwardly gay, and oddly merry;
Her (carf pale pink, her head-knot cherry. Prior,
If a man be taught to hold his pen atukxvardiyf
yet writes fulBciently well, it is not worthwhile
to teach him the accurate methods of handling that
inftrument.
H^alti'i Improvement 0/ the

ciple atvfully

Out of one's own hands; into the power
of fomething elfe.

to their breeding.

verential manner.
It will concern a man, to treat this great prinand warily, by (till obferving what
it commands, butcfpecially what it forbids. South.

I

Sidney.

When any thing is done avihwardly, the common faying will pafs upon them, that it is fuiiable

A'wFui.LY. ad'v. [from aiv/ul.'\ In a re-

Norchareehisgen'rous meaning. Roiae'sJ.Sbore.
5.

to work.

and a»ryi// reverence for antiquity, and the vogu.
of fallible men.
Watn.

.

ylv)ay, you flact'rcr

fwearing he never knew a man go more evikvtarJly

Such as the fury of ungovcrn'd youth
Thrufl from the ci.mpany of av.'fut men. Shakt^f.
3. Struck with awe ; timorous ; fcrupulous.
This fenl'e occurs but rarely.
It is not nature and I'rltt reafon, but a weak

Sbaiifprarc's King John.
I'll to

A W O

A W K

Ler us go.

5.

:

.

;

But W.1S implacable, and atuktvard.
Hudibrai.
To ail that interlop'd and h.i"ii<r'd.
A'wKWARDLY. adv. [from atvi-ivard.]

Judgts, xvi. 20.

Awo'rk. ad'v. [from (T and ti/cr^.] On
work ; into a ftate of labour ; into a£Uon.
So af.e. Pyrihus" paufe,
Aroufed vengeance fets him new awork.

By prcfcribing the condition,
to t!ie pcrtormaiiccs of it,

it

fets

Sbakefp.
us awirk

and that by living well.

Hammond,

Awo'rking. adj. [from anaork.] Into the
ftate of working.

Clumfily; unreadily ; inek-gantly ; un-

L.iig they thus travelled, yet never met

gainly.
Pametai nodding from the walle upwards, and

Adventure which might them uworking f't.
Huhherd's Tale.

Awry'.

—

;

cannot be

Awry', adv, [from a and at'ry.]
obliquely.
I. Not in a ftraight direftion
But her lad cy ,, Ibii fall'r.ed r,n the ground,
Arc governed with ^o d:y modefty ;
That fu9crs not one look to glance atiiry.

Which may let in a litje thought unlound.

2.

That fwift rotation muft difperfe in air

Not according

On th"ir own axii as the planets run.
And make at once their circ.e round the fun
So two confiftent motions a£l the foul.
And one regards itfclf, and one the wh.le.

per-

to right reafon ;

verfely.

AU aiurSf and which wried it to the moft wry
courfe of all, wit abufed, rather to feign reafon
why it ihould be amifs, than how it ihould be
amended.

Sidney.

formed.
Venerable Neftor
Should with a bond of air, ftrong as the axte-tree

On which heav'n rides, knit all the Grecian ears
To his eiperienc'd tongue.
Shakeffeare.

Axe.

n.f. [eax, acj-e. Sax. a/cia. Lat.]
An inftrument confifting of a metal head,

The fly fat upon the axle-tree, of the chariotwheel, and faid. What a durt do I raife
Bacon,
And the gilded car of day

with a (harp edge, fixed in a helve or
handle, to cut with.

I

His glowing axle doth allay

-No metal can,

In the fteep Atlantick rtream.
Itfilton,
He faw a greater fun appear,
Than his bright throne or burning axle-tree could
bear.
MUion's Chriji's Nativity,

No, not the hangman's axt, bear half the keennefs

Of thy fliarp envy.

Shakeffiare.

There ftood a foreft on the mountain's brow,

Which overlook'd the (haded plains below

No founding axe prefum'd thefe trees to bite.

Ay. ati-v. [perhaps from aio, Lat.]

Coeval with the world ; a venerable fi^ht.

1.

Drydtn.

AXTLLA. n.f.

[axilla, Lat.]

vity under the

The ca-

upper part of the arm,

i^mcy.
ladj. [from a;v///<j, Lat.] Be-

Axillary artery

is

diCr.buied unto the hand;

belr.w the cubit, it divideth into two parts. Brrmin.

A'xiOM. »./
a^Uuf Gr.]
I.

[ajcitma, Lat. a^iufta, from

Yes; &n ad'verl) of anfwering affirmatively.
Return you thither ?—
—Ay, madam, with the fwifcell wing of fpeed.
What fay'ft thou ? Wilt thou be of ourconfort
Sav ay, and be the captain of us all.
It is a

2.

forced ;

.'

ShakeCfcaie.

word by which the fenfe is eneven; yes, certainly; and more

than that.
Remember it, and let it make thee creft faU'n;
Ay, and allay this thy abonive pride. Stakejfei^re.

A propofition evident at firft fight, that Aye.- ai/v.

[apa, Saxon.]

And hears the mufes, in a ring.

Always ;

Sir J. Davics*

Aye round about Jove's altars fing.
Milton*
Th' allinifli'd mariners aye ply the punvp;

No ftay, nor reft, till the wide breach is clos'd.
Philifs.

A'ygreen. n.f.

The fame with hoi//i~

which fee.

Dicl.

leek ;

The neft of the hawk.
ffalton's Argler,

A'ziMUTH. n.f. [Arab.]
The aximuth of the fun, or of a ftar, is
1
an arch between the meridian of the
place, and any given vertical line.
2. Magnelical Az,i?nulh, is an arch of the
horizon contained between the fun's
aximuth circle and the mag lelical meridian ;

or

it

is

the appaie.it

dillance

of the fun from the north or fouth point
of the compafs.
3. Azimuth Compafs, is an inftrument ufe.}
at fea for finding the fun's magnetic
az,imuth.
4. Ax.imuth Dial, is a dial whofe ftile or

gnomon is at right angles to the plane
of the horizon.
5. Azimuths, called

|

alfo vertical circles,

are great circles interfering each other
the zenith and nadir, and cutting

in

the horizon at right angles, in

all

the

points thereof.

Shakefpeare.

called the arm-pit.

Axi'liar.
A'xiLLARY. J longing to the arm-pit.

Pope.

A'xLE.
X"-/- [axis, Lat.] The
A'xLE-TREE. J pin which paffes through
the midft of the wheel, on which the
circumvolutions of the wheel arc per-

Much of the foul they talk, but all atory.
And in themfelves feek virtu«, and to tbemlelves
All glory arrogate, to God give none.
Milton.

And, though it hath beginning, fees no end.

1 (h'uld difcourfc on the brancher, ihe haggard,
and then treat of their feveral ayries.

Slackmcre.
It might annually have compafled the fun, and
yet never have once turned upon its axis.
Btntley.

Pcpt,

Shaiefpeare*

The f lul, th lugh made in time, furvives f )r ayei

A'yry. n.f.

All things which on the rapid orb appear.

Not equally between two points ; unevenly.
Not tyrants fierce that unrepenting die.
Not Cynthia when her manceau 's plnnM aviryy
Ere felt fuch rage.

5.

Brown.

On its own axis is obiigM to turn ;

Not in the right or true diretlion.
1 hap to ftep ^ivryt where i fee no path, and can
Brernvaod,
difcsm but few fteps afore me.

4.

Hcoker.

But fince they fay our earth, from mom to mom.

Dertbam'i So[>hy^

Oil h'S ion'i adtions.

Either prepare to die.

For aye, aufterity and fingle life.

on which it may revolve.

Wi :h jea'ous eyes has look'd awry

Rtmedylefi i'tu- ay. he doth him hold. Tairy ^een.

without new proof.
The axiomi oi chat law, whereby natural agen*s

A'xis. »./ [axis, La.t.] The line real or
imaginary that partes through any thing,

Aiquint ; with obliqne viCon.
\ ou know the king

for ever. It is now rarely ufed,

Or on Diana's altar to pr^'tei^.

in lift oi nothing.

MUtcn*

;

and only in poetry.
And jiowin darklome flungeon, wretched thraU,

An eftabli(hed principle to be granted

Their afhrmations are no axiomi \ we efteem
thereof as things unfaid, and account them but

Blows thenri tranfveiie, ten thouiand leagues mvry

eternity

H.^k.r.

are guided, have their ufe in the moral.

Shaicff. Rchardll.
viole it croi's wind, from either coaft.

Diftinguift form.

3.

made plainer by demonftra-

the lefler.

Like perfpeai\e8, which rightly gaz'd upon,
Shew nothing but confufial j eyed awry,

Into the devious aT,

A Z U

tion.
Axioms, or principles more general, are fuch as
this, tiut the greater good is to be chofcn bef re

;

t.

.

AYE

A X I

A

;

to

Chambers.
Azure, adj. [axttr, Fr. azurro. Span.
lazur, Arab, from lazuli, a blue ftone.]
Blue ; faint blue.
Like pomcls round of marble clear,

.

Where axur'd veins well mixt appear.
Sidney.
The blue of the firft order, though very faint
and little, may be the colour of fome fubftance ;
and the azure colour of the

Ikies feems to be this

order.

Newton.

Thus replies
Minerva, graceful with her azure eyes.

Pofe,

The fea,
Far through his axure turbulent domalo.
Your empire owns.
Thcmfn,

B.

;

;

;

.

B.

BAB

BAG

BAC

fecond letter of the Englilh
alphabet, is pronounced as in
moll other European languages,
by preffing the whole length of the lips
together, and forcing them open with a
ftrong breath.
It has a near affinity
with the other labial letters, and is
confounded by the Germans with P.
and by the Gafcons with f^ ; from which
an epigrammatift remarks, that iiiire
and •vi'vere are in Gafcony the fame.
The Spaniards, in mod words, ufe B or

The apoftle had no fooner propofed it to the
mailers at Athens, but he himfelf was ridiculed
Rtgers.
as a babbler.

Ba'cchus bole. n.f. A flower not tall,

RThe
y

Utterert of fecrets he from thence debarr'd ;
Babbler! of folly, and blazers of crime.
Fairy

The cry of a

iheep.
—Therefore thou art a flieep
Such another proof would make me cry iaa. Shah.
To Baa. i;. «. [ialo, Lat.] To cry like
a Iheep.

Or like a lamb, whofe dam away is fet,
He treble iraas for help, but none can get. Sidney*
To Ba'bble. V, n, HabbeUn, Germ, babilhr, Fr.]

To prattle like a child

1.

My babbl'mg praifes I repeat no more.
But hear, rejoice,

ftand filent, and adoie.

PnnfM

To talk idly, or irrationally.
John had conned over a catalogue of hard
words j thefe he ufed to iaitli indifterently in all
companies.
ylrhuthnot.
Let the filent fanftuary Oiow,
What from the babblirtg fchools we may noE know.
Prior,

3.

To talk thoughtlefsly

to tell fecrets.
and i'llent
friend, than in a noify babb/ing enemy. L'Eftrange,

There is more danger

i|..

;

j

:

Nor fliall Sebaflian's formidable name
Dryden.
Be longer us'd, to lull the crying babe.
The babe had all that infant care beguiles.
And early knew his mother in her fmiles. Dryd.
Ba'bery. n.f. [from babe.] Finery to
pleafe a babe or child.
So have I fccn trim books in velvet dight.

Replying flirilly to the well-tun'd horns.
As if a double hunt were heard at one?. Sbatejp.
And had I pow'r to give th.it knowledge birth,
In all the fpeeches of ,he babbling earth.
Prior.
The babbling echo had dcfcry'd his face
She, who in other's words her filence breaks.

Mdifin.

/ [babil, Fr.]

Idle talk;

fenfelefs prattle.

This babble (hall not henceforth trouble me
Here it a coil with proteftation.
Sbake//>eare<

Come, no more,
Thii i< meer moral babble.

Milton.

With volleys of eternal babble,

And clamour more unanfwerable.
The

babble,

impertinence,

taken notice of in difputes.

and

Iludibrai.
folly,

I

have

Glanvitle.

Ba'bblement. «._/. [irom babble."^ Senfelefs

prate ;

Deluded

all

empty words.
this while w.th ragged notions

and

iab'^Umenti, while they expelled worthy and delightful knowledge.

Babbler. «./ [from babble.]
an irrational prattler.
I. An idle talker
We h our tims too precious to be (pent
;

lid

With fuch a babbler,

4.

Shakejfeare.

as

the

together like a

Ray.

Di£}.

[This is a word of
very uncertain etymology, it not being
well known what was its original fenfe.
Junius derives it from ^i.r.ri\®', foolilh ;
Menage, from bas chevalier, a knight of
Spelman, from baculus,
the lowed rank
a ftaff ; Citjas, from buccella, an allowance of provifion. The moft probable
derivation feems to be from bacca /auras,
bachelors
the berry of a laurel or bay
being young, are of good hopes, like
laurels in the berry.
Dr. Lawrence obferved, ih-ax. Menage' s etymology is much
confirmed by the pradice in our univerfities of calling a
Bachelor, Sir. In
;

;

Shakefpeare.

Addijln.

Ba'by. n.f. [See Babe.]

A child; an infant.
The baby beats the nurfe, and quite athwart

Latin, baccalaureus .]
A man unmarried.

Shakefpeare.

The child muft have fugar-plums, rather than
make the poor baby cry.
Lockf.
He muft marry, and propagate: the father can-

fet clofe

as the uva marina.

berries.

He call every human feature out of his countenance, and became a baboon.

their fruit compofed of many

Ba'chelor. n. /.

You had looked through the grate like a gemlny

2.

only one feed ;

Bacci'vorous. adj. [from bacca, a berry,
and i>i>ro, to devour, Lat.] Devouring

him a bahijh and ill brought up thing.
AJciam.
Babo'on. n. /. [babouht, Fr. It is fuppofed by Skinner to be the augmentation
oi babe, and to import a. great babe.] A
monkey of the largell kind.

Goes all decorum.

it

round foft balls

bunch of grapes ;

Of feely boys, pleale unacquainted fight. Sidney.
Ba'bish. ailj. [frova babe.] Chiidifh.

of baboons.

Such as have

acini, or

With golden leaves and painted babery

1.

containing in

3. Such as hare but polyfpermous fruit, that Is,
containing two or more kernels or feeds within it;
as the jeTminum, ligultrum.

Thofe that do teach your babeit

;

is,

arbutes.

Do it with gentle means, and eafy taflcs
He might have chid me fo for, in good faith,
1 am a child to chiding.
Shakefpeare.

The babbling Kho mocks the hounds,

«.

that

a child of either fex.

To talk much.

Ba'bble.

flower and calix both failing off together, and
leaving the berry bare ; as the faflafras trees.
2. Such as have a naked monofpermous fruit,

L'Eflrange.

Babe. n. /. [baban, Wellh
babbaerd,
Dutch ; bambino, Italian.] An infant

in a referved

Berry-bearing.

Bacciferous trees are of four kinds.
1. Such as bear a caliculate or naked berry ; the

]f he be baihful, and will foon blulh, they call

to prate im-

;

perfeSly.

2.

aw&fero, to bear, Lat.]

^

Great babblers, or talkers, are not fit for truft.

F indifferently.

Baa. «./. [See the verb.]

A teller of fecrets.

2.

but very full and broad-leaved. Mortim.

Bacci'ferous. adj. [from bacca, a berry,

1

Such fcparation
Becomes a virtuous bachekr and a maid.

Shakejfi*

not ftay for the portion, nor the mother for babes
Locke.
to play with.

The haunting of diiTolute places, or refort to
courtefans, are no more puniihed in married men

A fmall image in imitation of a child,
which girls play with.
The archduke f.iw that Perkin weald prove a

than in bachfhrs.

runnagate ; and it was the part ofxchildren to
Bacon.
fall out about babies.
Since no imyge can reprefent the great Creator,
never think to honour him by your fuoliih puppets, and babies of dirt and clay.
Stiilingjieet.

Ba'ccated. «<^'.

[baccatusy'Li.t.]

which belongs to th; bachelor'^ eftate.
Dryden.
Let fmful bachelors their woes deplore.
Full well they merit alt they (eel, and more. Pope,
2.

ard.

Ba CCHANALS. n. f. \bacchanaUa, Lat.]
The drunken feails and revels of Bac
chus, the god of wine.
Ha, my brave emperor, (hall we dance now the
Egyptian iacchanah, and celebrate our drink ? Shak.
What wild tury was there in the heathen bacchanals, which we have not feen equalled }
Decay of Piety.
Both extremes were banlih'd from their walls,
Pope.
Cartbufian fafts, and fulfomc bacchanuis.

A

man who takes his firft degrees at
the unlverfity in any profeffion.
Being a boy, new bachd^r of arcs, 1 chanced to
fpeak againft the pope.
Ajcham.
1 appear before y.tur honour, in behalf of Martinus Scrihierus, bachelor of phyfic. A4art. Scilhlerus.

Befet

with pearls ; having many berries. Diii.
Bacch an a'li AN. n.f. [from bacchanalia, Lat.]
A riotous perlon ; a drunk-

Bacon,

A true painter naturally delights in the liberty

2.

A knight of the loweit order.

This is

a fenfe now little ufed.

Ba'chelorship. n.f.

[frarr^ bachelor.]

The condition of a bachelor.
Her mother, living yet, tan teftify.
She was the firit fruit of my bachelorship.

Shakefp,

BACK. »./. [bac, baec. Sax. bach. Germ.]
I .

The hinder part of the body, from the
neck to the thighs.
Part following enter, part remain without,

And mount on others backs, in h'pcs to Ihare.
Dryden,
2.

The

;

BAG

BAG

B A C

The outer part of the hand when it To Back. v. a. [from the noun Uck.]
oppofed to the fa/m.
1. To mount on the back of horfe.
is (hut

t.

Lofty-neck'd,

Sharp -teaded, barrel-bellied, broadly hacked. Eryd.

:

Mechiught love, pitying me, when he faw this,

Gave me your hands, the lacks and palms Co kifs.
Donne,

The outward part of the body; that

3.

which requires clothes

:

oppofed to the

Thofe who, by their anceftors, have been fet free
from a conllant drudgery to their tacks and their
bellies, Ihould bellow fome time on iheir heads.

That roan Ihall be my throne.
Well, I will hack him ftrait. © Efperance
Butler
lead him forth into the park.
Bid
Shakefp.
2. To break a horfe ; to train him to bear
upon his back.
Uireft us how to back the winged horfe
;
!

Favour his (light, and moderate his courfe.
Rofcommon,

As I flept, methought
Great Jupiter, upon his eagle back'd,
Appeai'd to me.
Sbakeffearc,

Locke,

The rear

4.

oppofed to the 'vci/i.

:

He might conclude, that Walter would be upon
the k.ing'sJ/ackt as his majcHy was upon his. Clarend,

To place upon the back.

3.

To maintain

4.

The place behind.

5.

botli backed with

a back ;

To turn the back on one

;

Shakejfearc.

men at arms.

Sir 'J. Haytxard.

hack upon him.

go away ;

to

His hack was no fooner turned, but they returned

Sir^» Dai'ics.

to their former rebellion,

cious reafon.

Back. adv. [from the noun.]

To the place from which one came.
He fent many to feck the fliip Argo, threatening
that if they brought not back Medea, they Ihould
Raleigh's HJiory of the IforlJ.

Where they are, and why they came not back.
Is nosv the labour of my thoughts.

Mi/lon.

And lea\e half-heard the melancholy tale. fife.
Backward ; as retreating from the prefent ftation.
I've been furprij'd in an unguarded hour,
;

thought to promote thee unto gicat Iionour;
but lo the Lord hath k'pt thee back from honour.
I

Numh- xxiv. 1 1.
Conftrain the glebe, keep tack the hurtful wjed.
Blackn:ore.

Towards things part.
I

had always a tuiioU;y to look back unto the

fources of things, and to view in

my mind the b.'

ginning and progrcu of a r iing world.
J.

Again
Tne

1.1

;

Burnet,

in return.

ly '«

The hind part of an animal.
A po.ir ant carries a grain of corn, climbing up

2.

Sfenjir.

bim well ; a frend i' th' court is better

Ufe his men well, Davy,
for they are arrant knaves, and will backbite,
Shakefpearc.

[from backbite.']
A
privy calumniator ; a cenfurer of the

Ba'ckbitbr.

n,/.

No body is bound to look upon hit backbiter, or
his undcrminer, his betrayer, or his opprelTor, as
his friend.
Soult.

Ba'ckbone. k./. [from back and bone,]
The bone of the back.

a wa'l with her head downwards and her buckJitU
At.diJoM*
upwards.

3.

The yard or ground behind a houfe.
The walh of paftures, fields, commons, roads,
ftrects, or

forts

backjides, are of great

of land,

To Backsli'be, v,

n,

advantage to all
Mortimer,

[from back and
a

pde.] To 'fall off; to apoftatize
word only ufed by divines.

:

Hall thou feea that which hackfiiding Ifracl
She is gone up upon every high
hath done ?
mountain, aod under every green tree.
"Jcnai.tb,

Backsli'der. n.f. \ixombackfltJe.]

Aw

apoftate.

The hackjlidcr in heart fhall be filled, Fro^>crhi,
[froai back and /cjf;
entire rigid bnne.
becaufe, in taking an obfervation, the
Ray,
Ba'ckcarry. Having on tfie back,
ob;erver's back is turned towards tha
Manwoori, in his forrit Jaws, noceth it for one
An inftniment ufcful in taking
fun.]
of the four cirruml^aii e«, nr cjfes, wiiercin a
the fun's aliiiudc at fea ; invented by
foreftcrmay arrcl> an offender .igainft veit or veriCaptain Davies.
fon in theforcft, xiji, ftable-lland, dog-draw, baikcarry, and bloody hand.
Cowcll. ^ a'c K s T Ai R s II. /, [from /ack :in(ljJairs.]
'I he hackU^ne
fiioulJ be oividcd into many vcrtebres ror commodijus bending, and not to be one

Ba'ckstakk. n.f,

.

lowers,
Tjk'J ami g.vr hack .iffairi, and their difpatch.

The door behind the houi'e ; privy palfage.

With fttcb a fmuoth, decreet, and liable bearing.

I

Shakejfearc,

This ';alar found, and that ua^ratefut aj'*,
With lofing him, went i<»< * to bl'iod and raijr. h'alUr.

The epiltlei Be.ng written rro.ii ladies forfikcn
by t!\rir lovers, many thoughts caioe back n-on

Vrydtti.

Vol. I.
J

Addiy.n.

I'.ipery, whi>^h is f.j lar (hut out as not tj reenter openly, is Sealing in by the backdmr of atlic-

ifm.

m Ba'ckbd.

The private ft.urs in the hoiifc.
I

CLiidemn the practice whicli hatli lately crept

inti the court at'thc bacijiairs, that fome pricked

Bacon.

f>r flicrti'i get out of the bill.

he proceflion duift not return by the way it

came J but, after the devotion of tiie monks, pafieti
out at a bacldt.or of the Conv;r.t.

Again ; a fecond time.

in divcri letteti.

I will ufe

Ba'ckdoor. ». /, [from back and Jcor.]

ma.; ; yet if "twcre fo,

She could not fw y her houf,-, command her fol-

6.

If the quickfilver were rubbed fom the i«ri/£fe
of the fpecuUim, the gb.fs would caufe the fame
rings of colours, but mo;e faint ; the phienomena
depend not upon the quickfilver, unlofs fo far as it
encreafes the teHettion of the backfuie of the glafs.
Nenuton,

Mnft untruly and niiiicioudy do tlicfc evil
tongues lackbite and ilander the facred alhes of

abfent.

But muft not now go back the love, that lay
Half fmoihei'd in my breajl, has broke through all
Its weak reftraintf.
Addijon.
3. Behind ; not coming forward.

The hinder part of any thing.

1.

Fadious, and fav'ring this or t'other lide.
Their wagers iafji their wilhes.
Drydcn.

that perfonage.

not in the front.

Ba'ckside^ n.f. [from back a.nAJide.]

To fecond.

To cenfure or reproach the abfent.

;

If you have a fair profpctl backwards of gardens, it may be convenient to make lackraoms the
Max, Mccb, Exercifexm
larger.

L'£J}range.

thin a penny in purlc.

Back to thy native iHand might'H thou fail.

4.

The morning that he was to join battle, hT»
armourer put on his backfitce before, and his breaft.
Camden,
plate beiiind.

Boyle.

To B a'c K B I T E. 1/. «. [from back and bite.'\

Back you IhaJ not to the houfe, untefs
Vou undertake that with me.
Sbukejp/ari.

2.

back.

We have I know not how many adages to tack
6.

Carevf*

by rteps.

Ba'ckpiece. »._/! [from bad and piece.]

A room behind

and thofo that would have live elements,
endeavour to tack their experiments with a fpe-

be

the reafon of this moral,

Head.

Their hackboufcs, of mor« neceffary tbati cleanlf
as kitchens, llabies, are climbed up unto

fervice,

Ba'ckroom. n,/, \Jrom back and raoai.]

ples,

S-jufh.

to

zance.

fufter in he

the houfe.

Tojuftify; to fupport.
The patrons of the ternary number of princi-

5.

not within the reach of taking cogni-

1.

The buildings behind the chief pait of

Addifon,

At the hour of death, all friendjhips of the world
him adieu, and tlie whole creation turns its
;

Ba'ck HOUSE, ft./, [from tack &n<i bou/e.']

The piece of armour which covers the

Howfliall we treat this bold afpiring man >
Succefs ftill follows him, and tacks his crimes.

bid

To turn the back

In what eileera are you with the vicar of the
can you play with him at backgawntcn f
Siefi.

have no advantage of a man, but from his expeftations of fomething without himfelf.
Souib.

him, or negleft him.

9.

Tt. /.
[from bacb gam^
Mor, Weifh, a little battle.] A play or
game at tables, with box and dice.

A great malice, tacked with a great intered, can

to forfake

Ef range.

Backca'mmon.

And after turn'd out the whole houfeful. Ifudiiras,

Bull dreaded not old I.ewis either at hackfiuord,
Hngle faulchion, or cudgel-play.
Arbuthnot,

8.

fj

Far is our church from Incroaching upon the civil power ; as fome, who arc backfriends to boih,
Soufhm
would malicioufly infinuate.

To prop and back the houfe of lords ?

as.

that is,

;

Set the reftlefs importunities of taleliearers and

Did they not fwear, in exprefs words.

The thick part of any tool oppofed to
the edge ; as the back of a knife or
fword : whence back/ivord, or fword with

7.

and

back

backfriends againft fair words and profefli 'ns.

Thefe were feconded by certain demilaunccs, and

Trees fet upon the hachs of chlmnies Jo ripen
Bacon s Natural Hifiory.

[from

parilh ?

me them that will face me.

fruit fooner.

/.

an enemy in fecret.

to ftrengthen ; to fupport

Belike he means,
Back'd by the povv'r of Warwick, that falfc peer,
T' afpire unto the crown.
Hhakeffeare,
You are Itiait enough in the (houldcrs, you care
not who fees your back : call you that backing ot
your friends ? a plague upon fuch backing ! give

The part of any thing out of fight.

b.

A friend backwards

friend.]

to defend.

As the voice goeth round, as well towards the
hack as towards the front of him that fpealccth, To
docs the echo : for you have many hack echoes to
the place where you ftand.
Bacon.
Anthcus, Sergeftus grave, Clcanthus llrong.
And at their hacks a mighty Trojan throng. Pryd.
6.

;

Ba'ckfriend.

Atttrbury.

adj.

[from back.]

Having

a

Ba'ckstays. n.f, [from back M\d Jiaji,]
Ropes or Hays which keep the marts of a
(hip from pitching forwarder overboard.

BA'cicswoRn. n.f. [i'rom back 'indf<ivoyd.]

A fword with one Iharp edge.
Bull dre.ideJ not cl ! Lewi; at tei-'/tvord,

back.

ytrbntinot,

T

Ba'ck-

!

'

;

.

FAD

B A C
[from lad, and
"'''I''
peapb. Sax. that is, towards the back ; contrary to forwards.]
1. With the back forwards.
They ventiackwarJ, and their faces were back-

Ba'ckwahd. 7
Ba'ckwards. 3

I

Shaki/feare.
That I'll requite it laft ?
Ba'ckward NESS. »./ [from iad-ward.]
1. Dulnefs ; unwillingnefs ; fluggiflinefs.
The thing by which we are apt to cxcufe our

backwardnejs to good works, is the ill fuccefs that
hath been obferved to attend well-defigning chari-

Slownefsof progreflion;

2.

is,

Dryd.

From the prefent ftation to the place

dried flefti.]

To Badge, f. a. [from the noun.]

Struck them with horrour backward; but farworfe
Milton.
Urg'd them behind.

To fave the bacon, is a phrafc for preferving one's felf from being hurt ; borrowed from the care of houfewives in

5.

Regreffively.
Arc not the rays of light, in pafling by the edges
and fides of bodies, bent feveral times hack-wards
and forwards with a motion like that of an eel ?

the country, where they have feldom
any other proviflon in the houfe than
dried bacon, to lecure it from the march-

Nc-iotsn.

6.

Towards fomething paft.
To prove the poflibility of a thing, there is no

ing foldiers.
What frightens you thus, my good fon ? fays

2,

You murder'd, are forry, and have been confeft.

O father! my forrow will fcarce fave my bacon

has been done or fuffered may certainly be done or
7. Reflex.
for the mind

Di3.
tances by one or more ftaves.
BAD. adj. [quoad, Dutch; compar. •z«or/J;

T' advance the fuit, the farther from her love. Dryd.

Ill ;

1

regard to phyfical or moral faults, either
of men or things.
Mod men have politicks enough to make,

But (he would fpell him back-ward; if fair-fac'd.

through violence, the beft fcheme of government
Pofe.
a bad one.
2. Vitiou3 ; corrupt.

fome reigns hack-

from the wrong end.
never yet faw man,

She'd fwear the gentleman ftiouid be her filler j
If black, why, nature, drawing of an antick,
Made a foul blot ; if tall, a launce iil-hcaded.

Thou may'ft repent.
And one bad aft, with many deeds well done,

Still tend

Our mutability makes the friends of our nation
hack-ward to engage with us in alliances, ylddijm.
are ftrangely hack-ward to lay hold of this
fafe, this only method of cure.
Atierbury.'
Cities laid wafte, they ftorm'd the dens and caves;
For wifer brutes are hack-ward to be Haves. Pefe.

2. Hefitating.
All things are ready, if our minds be fo :

The mind is backward to undergo the fatigue
of weighing every argument.

JVatts.

out, that the

». /.
:

Sbakefp.

Ba'ckwardly. adv.

[from backward.']
Unwillingly} averfely ; with the back
forward.
Like Numid lions by the hunters chas'd^
Though they do fly, ye; ^aciward/y lio go
With proud afpe£t, diiditiijing greater baite. Sidney
<

|

Sbakcfpeare.

logy ; derived by Junius from bcde or
bade, a meflenger, and fuppofed to be
corrupted from badage, the credential of
a meflenger ; but taken by Skinner and
Minjhe-w from bagghe, Dut. a jewel, or
bague, Fr. a ring. It feems to come from
bajulo, to carry, Lat.]

behind or paft poetical.
What fecit thou elfe

I.

?

qualities, either natural or

1.

A

mark or cognizance worn to fliew
the relation of the wearer to any perfon
pr thing.
But on his bread a blocSy crofs hebjre.
The dear reftmblMC; of his dying lord j

moral ; de-

depravity.

It was not your brother's evil difpoCtion made
him feek his death ; liut a provJking merit, fet
a work by a reproveable badne/s in himlV If. Sbak.
There is one convenience in this city, which
makes fome amends for the badmjs of the pave-

Addijon en Italy.
not fee how the badnejs of the weather
could be the king's fiult.
Addifoir,

ment.

I did

To Ba'ffle.

To elude

[bcifer, Fr.]
;

to make ineffeflual.

They made a (hi t to think thcinfelves guiltbieak the precept,
South.
and at the fame time to bajle the curfe.
He hath defervcd to have the grace withdrawn,
which he hath fo long fo_^t</ and defied. Atic-bury.

lefs, in fpite of all their fins ; to

The preterite of bid.

dcr.

Co-well,

?

2.

To confound

;

to defeat with fome con-

fufion, as by perplexing or amufing : to

baj^e is fometimes iefs than to conquer.

Badge, n.f. [A word of uncertain etymo-

The things or ftate

In the dark backward 01 abyfm of time ?

J

unto another.
;

1

And for an earned of greater honour,
He hade mc, from him, call thee Thane of Caw-

Souib.

Late ; coming after fomething elfe : as,
tacituarJ fruits ; iaci-uiard children :
fruits long in ripening ; children flow
of growth.

Ba'ckward.

it

Ba'dly. adv. [from bad.] In a bad
manner not well.
How goes the day with us O tell me, Hubert.—
Badly, I fear. How fares your majcfty
Sbaiffp.
Ba'dness. n.f [from bad.] Want of good

Reading was bad for his eyes, writing made his
Addijon.
head ake.
5. Sick : with of; as, bad of 3. fever.

backward learner

makes amends another way.
5.

from the badger, a creature who flows
up his provifion.] One that buys corn
and viduals in one place, and carries

Prior.

Unfortunate ; unhappy.
The fun his annual coutfe obliquely made,
Good days contrafled, and enlarg'd the had. Dryd.
4. Hurtful ; unwholefome ; mifchievous

n

Dull ; not quick or apprehenfive.
falls

bajulus, a carrier ; but by Junius derived

fert ;

pernicious : with_/or.

3. Sluggifli ; dilatory.

It often

His body crooked all over, big-bellicd, hadgirVEJiravgCm
Ba'dger. n.f. [perhaps from the Latin
legged, and his complexion fwarthy.

3.

whofe mind is backward now
Sbakejpeare,

4.

Having legs of an unequal
length, as the badger is fuppofed to
have.

Mix thee araongft the bad, or make thee run
Too near the paths which virtue bids thee Ihun.

We

Broivn^

legged.]

Milton.

from had to worfe.
Our unhappy fates

mod who

Ba'dger-lecged. adj. [from badger and

Thus will the latter, as the former, world

Unwilling; averfe.

Perifli the man,

and unexperienced believers, but
behold them daily.

Milton.

May'ft cover.

Sbakefpeare.

Ba'ckward. adj.
1.

(liorter than the other, is received not only by theo-

rids

not good : a general word ufed in

Locke.

I

An animal that earths in the grouncC
ufed to be hunted.
That a brock, or badger, hath legs of one fide

fuperl. itwy/.J

9. Paft ; in time paft.
They have fpread one of the worft languages in
it

Their hands and faces were all badg^d with blood.
Shakejbeare»
So were their daggers.
Ba'dger. n.f. \bedour, Fr. melts, Lat.J

;

Baculo'metry. »./ [from baculus, Lat.
and fifT^ov.] The art of meafuring dif-

can lack-ward caft

Upon herfelf, her underftanding light. SirJ. Da-vies.
8. From a better to a worfe ftate.
The w ork went backward; and the more he ftrove

the world, if we look upon
tvard*

1

Prior.

taken.

1

Oh, by whom ?
Thofe of his chamber, as it feem'd, had done 't;

For 'twas not that I murder'd, but that I was

South.

fofFerfd again.

Your royal father's murder'd

the priell j

argument to that vth\ch\ooks hack-wards; for what

To

mark as with a badge.'

Good old Philemon feiz'd it with a prong.
Drydeti.
Then cut a flice.

We might have met them dareful, beard to beard.
And beat them hack-ward home.
Shaktffmri.
The monftrous fight

10. Ferverfely;

;

that joy could not (hew itfelf modell enough, withSbakef/>eare,
out a badge of bitterncfs.
Sweet mercy is nobility's true badge. &bukcj[>*
Let him not bear the badges of a wreck,
Drydcp.
Nor beg with a blue table on his back.

High o'er the hearth a chine of bacm hung,

beyond the back.

No, doubtlefs ;

A favage tygtefs on her hcknet lies
The famous badge Clarinda us'd to bear. Fairfax^
The mark or token of any thing.
3
There appears much joy in him even fo much,

tardinefs.

The flefti of a hog falted and dried.

1,

A token by which one is known.

2.

Ba'con. ». /. [probably from baken, that

Then darting fire from her malignant eyes,

Siir ci" him haclnoard as he drove to rife.

and token of that (acred charadter which he injitterbury,
wardly bears.

jitterbury.

ties,

On the back.

4.

The outward fplcndour of his office, is the badge

And does he think fo backwardJy of me.

In leaping with weights, the arms are firft caft
tackwards, and then forwards, with fo much the
greater force ; for the hands go hackward before
Baccn.
they take their rife.
'

Spenjir,

was the firft man

That e'er receiv'd gift from him ;

Towards the back.

3.

B A F
For whofe fweet fake that glorious badge h< wore*

Perverfely ; or with cold hope.

2.

Genets*

ward.
z.

;

..

Utruria loft.

DryJ.
He brings to Turnus' aid his hafflcJho&.
When the mind has brought irfclf to clofe thinkEvery abdrufe proing, it may go on roundly.
blem, every intricate quedion, will not ha£le, difLocke.
courage, or break it.

A foreign potentate trembles at a war with the
Englilh nation, ready to employ againft him fuch
revenues as (hall haffie his defigns upon their
country.
Addifin,
Ba'ffle. n.f. [from the verb.]

A defeat.

keeps off a
South.
_
J'he authors having mKTed of their aims, are
fain to rctr?M with frulltation and a baffe. South.
It

is

the (kill of the difjiutaiit

tliat

baffle.

Ba'pfler.

;

BAG

When this baggage meets with a man who has

Experience, that great haffier of fpeculatioii,

^ures us the thing is too poflible, and

brings,

Ba'gnio.

.1

Burmt.

And laugh, like parrots, at a bagpiper.

Mdlfan.

Shakejp.

BAGVKTTE. n.f. [Fr. a term of architefture.]
A little round moulding, lefs
as, a bag

A term nfed to fignify different quan-

tities of certain commodities ;
of pepper, a iag of hops.
To Bag. v. a. [from the noun.]

To Baicne. v.

And bagg'd them in a blue cloud.

bailiff within his hundred, or the lord's

franchife. It is thit liberty which is ex-

empted from the ftieriff of the county,
over which the lord of the liberty apCoiuell.
pointeth a bailiffs
A proper officer is to walk up and down his
There llTued writs to the IherifTs, to return the
names of the feveral land-owners in their feveral

Fr.]

place, to tempt fifli, or other animals.
Oh cunning enemy, that, to catch a faint.
With faints ioti bait thy hook! mod dangerous
temptation that doth goad us on
Shak. Meaf. for Meaf.
Let's be revenged on him ; let 's appoint him a
meeting, give him a (how of comfort in his fuit,
and lead him on with a fure baited dcUy, till he
hath pawned his horfes to mine holt of the garters
Sbaieffeare's Merry Wives ofWindfor.
Many forts of filhes feed upon infefts, as is well
known to anglers, who bait their hooks with them.
Is that

To

To (in in loving virtue.

Bail. n.f. [Of this word the etymologifts
give

many

derivations

;

come from the French

The flcin feemed ratch contrafted, yet it barged,
}ViJm.an.

into the hand ;

Two kids that in the valley ftray'd

it

feems to

Ray.

put
to deliver up, as a man
bailler, to

How are '^e fex improv'd in am'rous arts
What new-found

delivers himfelf up in furety.]

foond by chance, and to my fold convey'd :
They drain two bagg'mg udders every day. Drydcr,

trifle ;

Bail is the freeing or fetting at liberty one arrcl^cd
or imprifoncd upon aftion either civil or criminal,
under fecurity taken for his appearance. There
is both common and fpecial hail\ comtton bail is
in adlions cf fm.'ll prejudice, or (light proof, called
common, becaufe anv fureties in that cafe are
taken ; whereas, upon caufrs of g cater weight, or
apparent fpeciality, j^rfij/ bail or furety mult be
taken.
There is a dif?*errnce between bail and
mainprife j for he that is mainprii'cd is at large,
until the day oi his appearance : but where a man
is bailed, he is always accounted by the law to be:
in their ward and cuftody for the time : and they
may, if they will, keep him in ward or in prifen

A

[bagatelle, Fr.]
a thing of no importance : a word

not naturalifed.
Heaps of haV rings and cypher'd feals
Rich uiflcs, ferious tagauJlei.

Prbr,

Ba'co ACE. a./, [from bag baggage, Fr.]
1. The furniture and utenfih of any army.
;

The :rmy was an r.'ifilrrd and fevtnty thoufand
footmer!, and twelve th.iofjnd horlemen, bcf^d; tlie

yuditb.
Ricties are the taggagtof v'.rtue ; they cannot be
fpared, nor left behind, but they hinder the march.
Hai-n.
They were probably always in Ttadinefs, and
carried among the baggage of the army.

taggagi,

at that time, or ocherwife at their will.

bag and bny^gnge.

i>)i

nvj ii,
fail

1

j;;ia

^^g

'

j-t,

for l;aiy.

1.

Ahen his affairs grew dcfpeX'j p^':k up btg and baggage, and

lij,'-

.

Arbutkn'A.

3. A wort'nlefs woman ; in French bagajie ;
fo called, becaafe fuch women follosv

camps.

A Ipark of indi^:)adon did rife in her, not to
fufFcr fucb a tiggagt to win away any thing of

hcrt.

S'ldnty.

To give bail for another.
LtC me be their ba.l
They (hall be ready at your highnefs' will,
To anfwer their fufpicion

',

1 hou (halt not bail them,
2.

human

they bait for

Gay.

Sbekijp, Tilui jindror.

To admit to bail.
When they had bailed the twelve bidiops who
wcicin the Tower, the houfe of Commons, in great
indignation, caufcd them iinnnedi Jtcly to be recommitted to the Tower.
Clarendon.

To give meat to one's felf, or horfes,
on the road.
What fo (Irong,
But, wanting reft, will alfo want of might ?
The fun, that mcafurcs heaven all day long,
At night doth bait his deeds the ocean waves

among.

Spenjir,

To Bait. <i/. a. [from battre, Fr. to beat.]
1.

To attack with violence.
Who feeming lorely chaffed at his band.
As chained be,:r, whom cruel dogs do bait.
With idle force did fain them to withftand.
Fairy Sjuets,

I will not yield
To kifs the ground before young Malcolm's feet;
And to be baited with the rabble's curfe.
Shakefpeare's Macbeth.

Worry"d with debts, and pill all hopes oi hail,

The goods that are to be carried away, To Bail. f. a. [from the noun.]
as

z.

Cotvell,

Th' unpity'd wretch lies tottingin a jail. Rojcommcn.
And bribe with prefents, or, when ptelents fail.
They (end their prollituted wives for bail. Drydeti,

jiddifbn Off Italy.

z.

fnares

hearts

I

Ba'oatelle. n. /.

HaU»

bailiwicks.

To Bait. v. a. [batan. Sax. baitzen.
Germ.]
I. To put meat upon a hook, in fome

they plead their heels, with a worfe perfume than
Jugurth found in the dungeon.
Carnu^s Survey of Corrfwall,

To Bag. 'V. n. To fwell like a fullbag.
and had a porringer full of matter in it.

[baigner,

Spenfcr,

hailiioichs.

:

Drydett.

Hops ought not to be bjggcd up hot. Mort'mur,
s. To load with a bag.
Like a bee, bagg'd with his honey'd venom.
He brings it to yuur hive. Dtydcn'i Don Sihaji'im.

a.

»./. [of baillie, Fr. andpic.

The place of the jurifdiftion of>a

Sax.]

drench ; to foak a word out of ufe.
The women forJlow not to baigne them, unleA

Accordingly hidrain'd thofe marOiy grounds.

An under-fteward of a manor.

3.

Ba'iliwick.

than an aftragal ; fometimes carved and
enriched.

To put into a bag.

I.

and their bailiffs, the owner hath incurred

A bailiff, by miftakc, feized you for a debtor,
and kept you the whole evening in a fpunginghoufe.
Svjifu
Swift as a bard the. iai/i/f leaves behind. Pope.

One

that plays on a bagpipe.
Some that will evermore peep thro' their eyes,

We faw a young fellow riding towardt in full

many times happeneth, that, by the under-

tha forfeiture, before he comcth to the knowledge
of the procefs that runneth againit him.
Bacon.

and Hopped by a valve and

Bagpi'per. ». /. [from bagpipe.'\

gallop, with a bob wig and black lllken bag tied to
it.

It

No banners but fhirts, with fome bad bagfife!
Sidney.
indcad of drum and fife.
He heard a bagpipe, and faw a general animated
Mdi/on's Freeholder.
with the found.

men's hair.

An officer whofe bufmefs it is to execute
(heri(fs

Chambers.

Dryden.
Shall burft its hag.
Sing on, fing on, for I can ne'er be cloy'd ;
So may thy cows their burden'd hagi diftcnd. Dryd-

4.

s.

takes in ijie compafs of three oftaves.

The faeliing p.ilon of the fereral (c&s.
Which, wanting vent, the nation's health infefls,

filk tied to

Liiufannc is under the canton of Berne, governed
by a bailiff hnZ every three years from the fenatc
of Berne.
Atldifin,

bag, which blows up like a foot-ball,
by means of a port-vent or little tube

the bag under the arm, when full ; and
openiug or flopping the holes, which are
The bagpipe
eight, with the fingers.

That part of animals in which fome
particular juices are contained, as the
poifon of vipers.

A fubordinate ofiiccr.

I .

arrefts.

three pipes or flutes, the firft called the
great pipe or drone, and the fecond
the little one, which pafs the wind out
only at the bottom ; the third has a
reed, and is played on by comprefling

Once, we confefs, beneath the patriot's cloak,
From the crack'd tag the dropping guinea fpoke.

TJiat tnay
be fct at liberty by bail or fureties.
B a'i L I F F. 'I. f. [a word of doubtful etymology in itfelf, but borrowed by us from
baillie, Fr.]

fical inftrument, confilling of a leathern

fixed to it,

Stattjfeere.
Set thou at liberty.
What is it that opens thy mouth in prailes ? li
Sotith
it th.n thy hagi and thy barns are full i
Waters were icclofed within the earJ)> as in

Ba'ilable. ail/, [from bail.]

ylrluth. onA'ir.

Ba'gpipe; n. f. [from bag a.a6 pipe ; the
wind being received in a bag.] A mu-

Of hoarding abbots ; their imprifon'd angels

ornamental purfe of

Hfctlator.

a bath.]
fweating, and
Ital.

[hagiio,

produced by the hocairof a bagnio,

as money, corn.
Coufm, away for England ; hafte before.
And, err our coming, fee thou (hake the bap

Ad

/.

A

Bag. ». / [belje, Saxon ; from whence

hag.

fi.

ac

houfe for bathing,
otherwife cleanfing the body.
I have known two inftances of malignant fevers

in all ages, matter ot (aSt to cootute our fuppoGo'LtrnrntKl of ibc Tongue.
fitioDS.

perhaps, by dropping, as is ufual, the
harfti confonant, came l>ege, bage, hag."]
1. A fack, or pouch, to put any thing in,

him to

vanity to credit relations, (he turns
count.

to confufion, or defeats.

3.

B A I

B A I

BA'FFLER.»./[froni^«^.] He that puts

2.

!

!

2.

To harafs by the help of others

;

as, we

bait a boar with maftiffs, b«c a bull with'

bull-dogs.

To Bait.

it.

».

To flop at any place for

refrelhnient : perhaps this word is more
properly bate, to abate I'peed.
But our defircs tyrannical extortion
Doth force us there to fct our chief dclightfulncfs.

Where but a baiting place i~ jU our portion. Sidney.
As one who on nis journey baits at noon,
Thj' bent on fpesd : fo here th' archa,ngel paus'd.
Milhn.

Ta

In

.

;

;

;

.

B AK
Tn all ourjnumey from Lindon to till liouCt, we
a ia':: »t» whig 'nn.

of a fenny Inakr,
In the cauldron boil and biiki.

would but balance the gooi and ttie evil
\f
of things, they would not venture fogl and body

Fillet

SfeBetir.

^Idiiijin'i

[as an ioKvt.]

».

mw

To be heated or baked.

2.

did not (b much

9*9 Bait. a;.

B A L

B A L

the wings j io make an ofFer of flying ;

for dirty intereft.

Sbakeff. litaelelh.

To clap Baked Meats. Meats dreflcd by the oven.
There be f.>me houles, wherein fv.eetmeats will
and baked meats will mould, more than

to keep in a ftate of jull proportion.
Heav'n that hath plac'd this liland ti give law,

Bacon.

To balance Etirop*, and her fta^e; ri awe. JVallcrm
3. To counterpoife ; to weigh equal to;

relent,

to flutter.

others.

All plum'd like cftridges, that with the wind
Salted like eagles having lately batli'd j
Clittering in golJcu coats like imngcs. Sbal-^fixari.
Hood my unman'd blood bailing in my chjcks

Ba'kehouse. n.f. [from, br.ke znA hoti/e.']

A place for baking bread.

to be equipollent ; to counteraft.

have mark.'d a willingncfs in the Italian artisans, to dillribute the kitchen, pantry, and bakePP^ottor.
/»o;.Jc under ground.

The attracl.on of the giafa is bnlamed, and rendered incffedual, by the contrary ailrafliun of the
liquor.
Ncivton*

I

With thy black mantle J till ftrangc love, grown
bold.

Think! trjc love afVcd fimple modcfty. Shakifp.
Another way I have to man my hagrard,

Ba'ken.

of '.v.iter, at his head.

That i«, to watch her as we watch thofe kites
That iait and beat, and will n^t be obedient. Sbak
Bait. n.f. [from the verb.]
i. Meat fet to allure fifli, or other animals,
to a fnare.

Oit with her golden oars the filver dream,

To balance the account of Blenhein/s day.

dies.

the part which is held, together with the hanJ
that holds it; and then the two fcales, with whatSnvift,
ever is weighed therein.
For when on ground the burden balance lies.

The empty part is lifted up tlie higher.
Sir y. David.

A metaphorical balance, or the mind

3.

employed in comparing one thing with
another.
!

I

A refrefhment on a journey.
«. /.

fufTer:

Griefs heavier than our offences.

9« Bake.

;

i».

L^ EJirangc.
Upon a fair balance of the advantages on cither
fide, it will appear, that the rules of the gofpel
are more powerful means of convidion than fuch

fuf^'er only

Chambers.
a.

participle paffive, baked

ther, one exceeds the other.
Care being taken, that tbe exportation exceed
in value the importation ; and then the balance uf
trade muft of neceflity be returned in coin or bulBacon s j^v'ce to ydtieri.
lion.

parts of an account even ; as, he ftated

the account with his correfpondent, and
paid the balance.
See
7. Equipoife ; as, balance of power.
the fecond fenfe.

of prices of bread procee.icd

To harden in the fire.

2.

The work of the fire is a kind of hakir.^
whatfoever

the fire bakttb,

;

8.

With vehement funs
When dufty fummer bjka the crumbling clods.
!

Phi/if s.

And, darting to the bottom, bak'J the mud. Dfyd.

».

-v.

r..

Ba'lancer. n.f. [from balance.^

Tlie
perfon that weighs any thing.
B a'l ass Ruby. n.f. [balas, Fr. fuppofed
to be an Indian term.] A kind of ruby.
Balajs ruby is of a crimfon coi jur, with a cad
of purple, and feems beft to anfwer the del'cription
^ocdivard on FcJfiU*
of the ancients.

Di3.
Lat.] To ftammer in fpeaking.
To B A L B u't a T E f. «. The fame with
I

9. [In

walh, wring, brew, bakt,
fcour, drefs mea:, and make tl.e beds, ami do
.-til

St^k'/jcarc-

I.

Did.

Balco'ny. n.f. [baleen, Fr. balcone, Ital.}

A frame of iron, wood, or ftone, before
the window of a room.

Then pleafure came, who liking not the fafhion>
Began to make balconies, terraces, v
Herbert*
Till file had wcaken'd all by alteration.
When dirty waters from balconies drop.
fprinkling
mop.
And dext'rous damfels twirl the
Getf*

B.M.T>. adj. [bal.Wc](ii.]

defpoiled of hair

by

time or ficknefs.
Neither (hall men make themfelves bald

for

Wanting

1.

hair ;

Jeremiah,
1 I'nd it remarked by Marchctti, that the caufe
of baldnefs in men Is the drynefs of the brain, and
its (hrinking from the fkuU ; he having obferved,
that in bald perfons, under the iuU part, there war
Itay,
a vacuity between the fkull and the brain.
He Ihould imitate Czl'ar, wh >, becaufe his head
was bald, covered that defe£l with laurels, jiddifi

them.

2.

Without natural covering.
age.

And high top iaU with dry antiquity.
3.

Sbtke/f,

Without the ufual covering.
He is fet at the upper end o' th' table; but they

aftronomy.] Oneof the twelve figns

of the zodiacic, commonly called Libra.
Or wilt thou warm our i'ummers with thy rays.
And feated near the i;/jnrepoilc the days Dryd.
To Ba'i.anCE. f. a. [balancer, Fr.]

1 keep the hoofe, ai.d I

.

balbucinate.

Under an oak, whofe boug'is were mofs'd with

'r

To do the work of baking.
royfclf,

Locke,
Since there is nothing that can offend, I fee not
about
why you ihould balance a moment
printing
Ar.ertury to Pope*
it.

The beating part of a watch.
balance beats, think ; and it is fufficiently proveJ,
L'ckc.
that my watch thought ail lall night.

The fun with ftamingarrows pierc'd the flood,

To Bakb.

his choice.

It is but fuppofing tlut all watches, whilft the

How pleafjnt is 't, beneath the twilled arch,
.To ply the fweet caroufe

the joys of
heaven, offered to any one's prefent poU'elTiun, be
would not balance, or err, in the determination o£

>

Bann.

To harden with heat.

3.

Love, hope, and joy, fairpleafure'sfmiling train ;
Hate, fear, and grief, the family of p.iin ;
Thefe mix'd with art, and t d..e bounds confin'd,
Make and raaintain the i^i/amvof the mind. l'o]>c.

and

time doth in fome de-

gree diffolve.

weights.
Were the fatisfaflion of lull, and

That which is wanting to make two

Jfai^i.

The difference

MSifon, Sfflatcr.

To Ba'lakce. 'j. a. To hefitate ; to fluctuate between equal motives, as a balance plays when charged with equal

by which, of two things weighed toge-

6.

from their delicacy in bread, and perhaps fomeAri>u!bn-A,
thihg in their manner of bakir^.

am refolved, however, to turn all my encravuurs.

that way.

that quantity

He will take thereof, and warm himfelf; yes
he kindleth it, and bdketh bread.

I

jitterbury.

The overplus of weight;

5.

fied bread. "[

To heat any thing in a clofe place
generally in an oven.

the lot of nature.

melTage.

[bajcan. Sax. bckcti. Germ,
or haken.
fuppofed by Wachter to come from lee,
which, in the Phrygian language, figni-

1

Shak. Hen. IV,

the balance.
Comfort arlfes not from others being miferablc,
but from this inference upon the balance, that we

fometimes
having a long nap
frized on one fide, and fometimes not
frized. Thisftuft'is without wale, being
wrought on a loom with two treddles,
like flannel.

in my power to balance accounts with my Maker,

The aft of comparing two things, as by To Bale tj'ci NATE. v. n. [from balbutiot

4.

A kind of coarfe open cloth

ftufF,

have in equal ij/aacf juftly weigh 'd

What wrong our arms may do, what wrongs we

!

Prior*

Though I am very well fati^fied, that it is not

by confidering what the na-

ture of a balance is. It fuppofes three things; firft,

But for her native ornament of hair.

.

Chambers.

A balance of power, either without or within a
ftate, isbcft conceived

Her head was bare.

1

It is of feveral forms.

A pair of fcales.

And fpeciuus flattery's more pernicious bait.

%.

South,

.

nicks, ufed principally for determining
the difference of weight in heavy bo2.

unheeded idir of love Drydcn.
Grant tlut others could with equal glory
1.00k down on picafures, and the bailt of fenfe.
AdJiJm.

To pay that which is wanting to make

5.

n.f. [balance, Fr. bilanx, Lat. ]
One of the fix firaple powers in niecha-

Butgreateft hopes with greateft croffes meet. Fair/.
Fruit, like that
Which grew in Paradifc, thei«ir of Eve
Milton.
Us'd by tne tempter.
Secure from foolifli pride's affcaed ftate.

!

Judging is balancing an account, and determining on whii.h fide tl:e odds lie.
Ltcle*

cook or baker.

Sweet words, I grant, baits and allurements fweet,

BA zE

Kingi.

the two parts of an account equal.
Give him leave

Sfenfcr,
Is but a bait fuch wretches to beguile.
Take:h therewith the fouls of men, as with the
Hocker,
haitt,

Which in a fimple knot was tied above

on both ftdes.

In life and h^-alth, every man muft proceed upon
trull, there being no knowing the intention oi the

1

Rofcommor,.

To regulate an account, by Hating it

4.

He whofe

trade is to bake.

And greedily devour the treacherous bjit. Sbakrjf,
a. A temptation ; an enticement ; allurement.
And that fame glorious beauty's idle boaft

1

Ba'ker. n.f. [from To ia^f.]

B a'l A N c e

The pleafant'ft angling is to fee the fifll

Sweet negligence

The fart icijile from To bake.

There was a cake baktn on the coaU, and a crufe

To make her come, and know her keeper's call

L'Eftrange.

To regulate the weight in a balance

2.

ftand bald bcfoi^ him.

4.

Sbakejfeare,

Unadorned ; inelegant.
Hobbes,

in the prtiacc to his own bald tranfla-

tion, begins the praife of Homer

when he fhnuld

To weigh in a balance, either real or

Drydens Fables, Preface,
have ended it,
And that; though labour'd, line mud ^jW appear.

figurative j to'coinpare by the balance.

That brings ungrateful mufick to the ear.

'

Creech,

5. Mean;

J

B A L
Mean
J.

Ah, lucklefs babe born under cruel {t\t.
And in dead parents baUful %Ctin bred. I airy <n
I

I

That witncfs'd hujc affliaion and difmny,

in

ufe.

So

Tbrafeas, Tkrafymachus, and Thrajybu.

_

Da.

Builder's
[prob-ibly of balb.
bold, and da/h, to mingle.] Ai.y

,

Balderdash. «./

Sax.
thing jumbled together without
judgment ; rude mixture ; a confufed dil'-

Ba'lefullv. ad-v.

BA'tDLY. adv. [from bald.']

Balk. n.f.

A girdle.

Athwart his breaft a iMrhi brave

by what IS too hard for it.
But one may balk this good intent,
And take things othcrwife than meant.
j

Balls to the (tars, and thralls to fortune's reign,
Turn'd from tliemfelves, infefled with their cage,Where death is fear'd, and life is held with pain.

i^.-^,.

Sidney,.

Thofe I have feen play at ball, grow extremely
carneft who fiiould have the kail.
Sidmy.
fmall round thing, with fome parti3.
cular mark, by which votes are given,,

Prior.
for a people

Fairv
Hde,

P,>m.

The zodiack.

or lots call.

Is there a variance ? enter but
bis door,

An acorn cup he greeteth

Let l«ts decide it.
For ev'ry number'd captive put a lalh
Into an urn; thr^c only black be there.
The reti, all white, are fafe.
DrydtmMinos, the ftri^ inquilitor, appears ;
Round in his urn the blended balls he rowls,
Abfolves the juft, and dooms theguilty fouls. Dryd,.

;

Which foon he toketh by the (laik.
About his head he lets it walk.

Q ""'

a.<,L.!ders ti/d,

Sudan d th. fword that glitter d at his

A

Pope.

^aAVare the courts, and conteft is nu more.
P^c.
2. To mifs any thing
; to leave untouched.
Fy grifly Pluto he doth iwear.
He rent his clothes, and to.e ins hair
And as he runneth here and there. J

ftone; moft

4.

Nor doth he any creature bulk.

A. globe ;. as, the ^a// of the earthJulius and Antony, thofe lords of all,

But lays on all he meeteth. Drinion',
Nimpbid.
3. To omit, or refufe, any thing.
This was looked .'or at our hand, and

l«w at her feet prefentthe conquet'd ball.
Granville;

Y« gods, wharjuftice rules the ball?

this wns

Which deck the h^UrUk of the

4.

To heap, as on a ridge.

A bundle or pl'rtei
of goods packed op for carriage.

fomething like
tended here.

h.reo an als, in the- d,g.d.ijs,
ro carrv crrtain bm,, of good, to fuch a

Ten thoufanj

One

town.

baU, in which boh=a t.a w,s
bio.;.'ht over from China.
W.,.lv>^rd
T

V '-^

i^*'" Sax. bale, Dan. bal, Lol,

Icelandilh.] Mifery; calamity.
She lo<,k'd ab. ut, and iceing

one in mail
again ;
Fairy ^.

Armed to pnint, fought hack to tarn

F..r light ftc ha-.td s» the
deadly halt.

To »ALE ,:;<,. A word ufed by
the failor7!
who bid tale out the water ; that is
la-ve It out, by way
of diftinftion from
pumping. 9iimer. I believe
from
bail-

ler, 1-r.

to deliver from hand

[.""talUr. Fr. imhallure,
T I
Ital.]
To make up into a bale.
Baleful, adj. [horn bJe.]
I. Full of mifery
full
;

iulj fad J woeful.

of gt«f j foxrow-

bold Scots,

Balk'd in their own blood, did

three

and

5.

twenty

SirWjire

fre

On Holmedon's plains.
Shu: efpearr
Ba'lkers. n.f. [In fifhery.] Men wh,.
Hand on a cliff, or high place on the
fliore, and give a figo to
the men in the
fining boats, which way the paflage
or
<hv,ic of herring, ta.
I he
pilchard, ai, pu-fued
called a p'.ulhe.-, who lea

wiayeth them t

Ball. ,./

t

Iw.

Wnat »

e balker.

;.

.

)

To every cye-idZ/eife.
Shak.-fpean.
• To make a ftern countenance,
let your brow
bend fo,.that it may almoft touch the ball of the

by a blggc, fim,

eye

ahwe water, and be

Camvi Sur. of Cor,,

H,l,„, the fun, or ApoMo, of

was round, and in particular the

h'!, WIS c.ied by the

ancients either Bal, or
Btl, ano likcwife ]iCl anc Biil.
Among the mo.
d.M Perfians, the head is called Poll ; and
the

FUmings rtill call

toroundnefs; as the lower and iwelling.
part of the thumb ; the apple of the eye.
Be fubjeil to no light but mine ; invifible

'

Coveli.

[^0/, Dan. ^0/, Dutch.]

Bal, i,.mlButiv.

to hand.

';'•'"• "•,

this,

the head B'.iU.
heaj or p^il j md iwMwj.u to turn.

niUf U th.
BeKst likcwiu

Pope..

A' globe borne as an enfign of fovcreignty.
Here the tragedy of a young man, that by right
ought to hold the hall of a kingdom; but, by
fortune, ii made himfelf a ball, toiled from mifery
to mifery, from place to place.
Bacm,
6. Any part of the body that approaches

Thi«. or
feems to be in

knights,

VEfirmr,.

It IS parj of the

Freedom and arts t gether fall.

itbanejpearc.

hiavcns bright.

Bale. »./. [ialle, Fr.]

Woodward,.

A round thing to play with, either withthe hand or foot, or a racket.

would not baik their fancy.
Arlullmt.
Balk-d ol his prey, the yelling monller
flics,
Aiid hlls the city w.th his hideous

he ware.

That fliin i, Uke twinkling lUrs, with

2.

balls, or nodules, which we find.

2.

,

cries.

explained a bracelet ; but I
have not
round It in that fenfe.

A

Such of thofe corpufclcs as happened to combine
into one mafs, formed the metallick and mineral

to fruftrate ; to elude.

fo r,ch

By feme Diaionarits it is

precious rare.
rad.ant lalirUk, o'er his

;

''"|"'S"Lockt.
tyery onu has a defire to keep up the
vigour
ot his tacult.es, and not to balk
his underllandiip

Sivift.

logy-

gathered ftrength ai he pafliid.
Hiv/ell.
Still unripcn'd in tlie dewy mines.
Within the trail a trembling water lliines.
That through the cryftal darts.
Aidijom

A

Another thing in the grammar fchools I
f-e no
ufe of, unlcfs it be to balk young
ladt in learnini!

Meannefs of writing; inelegance

1.

wield.

But whirl from leathern firings huge balk of lead,.
DrydemLike a ball of fnow tumbling. down a hill, he

To Balk. v. a. [See the noun.]

And there ccrnipting to a wound,

Ba'ldrick. n.f. [Of uncertain etymo-

under logs of timber, but not in the timberBacor,'

The prices muit have been high

round.

Baxitr.-

Nor arms they wear, nor fwords and bucklers'

A

[derived by Skinner from 'ua-

To diiappoint

fome

Any thing made in a round form, or
talli

to pafs over.]
ridge of
land left unploughed between the
furrows, or at the end of the field.
I.

fignifics

approaching to round.
Worms with many feet round themfelves into

Sor-

and Germ.]

licare, Ital.

Which happen'd on the flcin to light,

3.

[balk, Dut.

Balk. n.f.

The lofs of hair.
Spreads Icprofy and haUmf,

the Romans form their Sol,

I.

great beam, fuch as is ufed in building
;
a rafter over an out-houfe or barn.

Nakedly;
meanly ; inelegantly.
Ba*ld.x.ony. »./ The fame with Gkn.
TI AN.
Ba'ldness. n.f. [i:oaibald.]
1. The want of hair.
2.

[fiotn baleful.]

and likewife ^ix,

rowfully ; mifchievoufly.

courfe.

To Ba'lderdash. v. a. [from the noun.l
To mix or adulterate any liquor.

Hbaifjptart.

Unfeen, unfelt, the fiery ferpent ikims
Betwixt her linen and her naked limbs.
His bakfal breath infpiring as he
glides.
Dryden.
Happy lerne, whole moll whok-fome air
Poilons envenonj'd fpiders, and forbids
The hclefuUatA and vipers from her /hore. VhWpu

iJA

and was a canopy carried over the holt.

Fairy Quctn.
,
Boiling cholcr chokes,

By fight of thcfc,onr^u/f/i/ enemies.

fiiix,

'h\ and 'i\, .whence "iXo; and "HXioj,,
IV,>.|7; and EnXio;, and alfo, in the Celtick diminutive way of expr<:flion,"EXr«?, riKivsj, and Bi>fvo;, fignified the fun ; and 'EXevu, Tt\i-m, anl iihi-.r,
the moon.
Among the Tcuronicks, hoi and lei!
have the fame meaning; whence the adjeftive holig, or hrilig, is derived, and fignifies divine or
holy i and the afpiration being changed into
/,
dialcifts,

He turn'd about, and Icarch'd his baleful books
"S""'

(2aiX,

lord, and by this name alfo the fun ; and, in

Milt.

Full of mifchief ; ^eftruflive.
But when he faw his threat'ning was but vain.

z.

mverilon Winbald, is bold conqueror;
Ethdbald, nobly bold; Eadbald, happily
hold; which are of the fame
import as

LDACHiN. n.f. [baldacbhw, hall A
piece of architeclure, in form
of a canopy, fupported with columns, and
fervjng as a covering to an altar. It
properly fignifies a rich filk, Du Cangc,

dialefls,

Mix'd with obdurate pride ai'd ft"dfaft hate.

and
Bald-Min, and by
;

ftill

/i//is derived, fignifying the beak of a bird,
fi6ura;i%eiy, the Phrygians and Thurians by SaMiiir
underftood' a king.
Hence alfo, in the Syriacic

Sfenftr.

Kound he throws his ielefui eyes,

BalJ was ufed by the northern nations,
to fignify the fame a» auiiax, bold
is

th.nk that I a new Pandora fee.

and ittl, and

Welch term btU By the Scotch
alfo the head is named htH; whence the Englilh-

tall, which the

Which her fair eyes unwares do work in me,-

bunes ?

ball, whence bnc!,

ronnd

flgaifies 1

But when i feel the bitter hafrful fmart,

On whom depending, their obedience fails
To th- grejti^r buich.
Siaiefpt^n-.
6.

BAL

B A L

nalced ; without dignity ; without value ; bare.
Wliat Ihould the people do with theft baUuU
;

7.

Pcacham,

The Ikin fpread over a hollow piece of
wood, (luffed with hair or wooi, which
the printers dip in ink, to fpread it on'
the letters.

Ball,

n.f, [l/al, Fr. from balart, low
Lat. from /3a^x,^r.j, to dance.] An en-

tertainment of dancing, at which the
pre^ arations arc

made

at the

expence

of lome particular perfon.
IT

;

B A L
DryJn.
He would make no extraordinary figure at a

bt:l\ but 1 can <flute the ladies, tor their confolation, that he has writ better verier im the fex than

any man,

Stvifi.

[ialat/e.Fr.]

A fong.

Ba/.'aJ once flgnitied a folemn and facrcd Tong,
IS wcU as trivial, when Solomon's Song was called
the ij.Vjrf ofta/hili ; but now it is applied to no-

thing but trifling verle.

ifufFed with

urn.

tyatts.

have not balladt made on you all, and
fung to filthy tunes, may a cup of lack be my
1

poifon.

Sbahfftart.

Like the fwcet hallaH, this amufing lay
Too long detains the lover on his way.

2.

little

Gay.

aft of voting by ballot.
The eleftioii is intricate and curious, conCfling
of ten feveral baltomimt.
ffoiten.

Sings with a note fo drilling, fweet, and loud.

Gay.

Balm. n.f. [iaume, Fr. halfamum, Lat.]
1. The fap or juice of a Ihrub remarkably

bottom of the

odoriferous.
Balm trickles through the bleeding veins
Of happy Ihrubs, in Idumcan plains.
Dryden.
2. Any valuable or fragrant ointment.
Thy place is fiil'd, thjifceptre wrung from thee

fhip, to keep

it Heady to the centre of
gravity.
There muft be middle counfellors to keep things
fleady j for, without that ballall, the Aip will roul
too much.
Bacon

As for the afcent of a fubmarine vcffcl, this may
be ealily contrived, if there be fome great weight
at the bottom of the (hip, being part of its hallafl
\
which, by fome cord within, may be loofeiied from

;

Thy balm wafli'd otf wherewith thou waft anointed.

Balm MjV/. 3

I.

Smft^

JVilkm

made of the wood and green branches

faw 1 had love's pinnace overfraught.
Donne.
Now you have given me virtue ior my guide,
And with true honour ballafied my pride. Dryden,

of the tree,

[ballette, Fr.]
dance
in which fome hillory is reprefcnted.

ftick :

puih

it

with.]

It feems to

of a

z.

1.

E*''^^"''.

To Balm.

F^']

A large round ftiort-necked veflel ufed
A

ball

placed oa the top of a pillar.

is

me, that the lori of Gilead, which

fcent

which

its

leaves

emit,

fuppofed, erroneoufly, that the ba/m of
Gilead w&% taken from this plant. Miller.
1.

or

1/.

a.

[from balm.]
balm, or with any

To anoint with
thing medicinal.

in chymiftry.
2. [In architedure.]

which

upon being bruifed ; whence fome h;-.ve

SccBalustre.

BALLo'ON.r-/-

Thole rich perfumes which frcm the happy (hore

The winds upon their ^o/iify wings convey'd,
Whofe guilty fweetnefs firft the world bctray'd.
Dryden,
Firll Euros to the tifing morn is fent.

The regions of the balmy continent.
Mitigating afliiafive.

5.

Bii'm his foul head with warm diftilled waters,
AnH burn fweet wo"d.
Sbakrffeare.

globe
2.

Dryden,

;

Oh balmy bieath, that doth almoft perfuade
Juftice to break her fword !

BA'LNEARy. n.f.

Sbaktffteare,

A

\^baJnearium, hAt.]

bathing-room.
The balnearies, and bathing- places, he expoleth'
unto the fummer letting.

Bremen s yulgar Erroars,

Balnea'tion. n.f. [itom balneum, 'Lzt.
a bath.] The aft of bathing.
As the head may be dillurbcd by the (kin, ic
may the fame way be relieved, as is obfervable \sk
balneaticns, and fomentations of that part.

Br^-ivns Vulgar Errours,

[balnearius, Lat.]

adj.

he (hews nothing but the ihocs of his
hinder-feet, without ycrking out.
halotade differs from a capriole ; for

A

when a

To footh

;

to mitigate ; to affuage.

horfe

works

at

he

caprioles,

yerks out his hinder legs with all his
force.
Farrier^ Di£l.
Ba'lsam. n.f. [balfamtim, Lat.] Ointment ; unguent ; an unftuous application thicker than oil, and fofter than
falve.
Chrift's blood our balfam ; if that cure us here.

Him, when our judge, we ihall not find fcvere.
Denham,

Ba'lsam Apple,

[momordica,

Lat.]

An

annual Indian plant.

Ba'lsam Tree.
Tills is a Ihrub which fcarce grows taller than
the pomegranate tree j the blolTjms are like fmall
ftars, very fragrant j
whrncc fpring out little
pointed pods, inclofing a fruit like an almond,
called carpobalfamum, as the wood is called xyloballamum, and the juice upobalfamum.
Calmet,

Balsa'mical. ladj. [from ia^w.] HavBalsa'mick. 5
ifg ^^^ qualities of
balfam ;

miid

A plant remarkable for the ftrong balfaraick

With dice, with cards, with ia/iiards, far unfit
With iliuttlecocks mifleeming manly wit. Sfen/er'

Ba'llister.

fire,

the fame with the balfam of Mecca, but only a
better f re of turpentine, then in ufe for the cure of
wounds and other difeafcs. Frideaux^s Ccr.nt.^ions

A play at

now corruptly called billiards.'

by

we render in our Bible by the word balm, was net

Ba'lliards. n.f. [from ball, znAyarJ,
ball is driven by the end

dillilled

generally adulterated with turpentine.
Calmet.

A

Balle'tte. n.f.

to

The juice drawn from the balfam tree,

fion, the i^a/ot fold by the merchants is

I

ftick

name of a plant.

As little ifliies from the plant by inci-

To keep any thing fteady.
While thus to ballafiXoyc I though".
And fo more fteddily t' have gone,

which a

The

the colour of honey.
The fmell of it is
agreeable, and very penetrating ; the
tafte of it bitter, Iharp, and ailringent.

If this be fo haltafieH, as to be of equal weight
with the like magnitude of water, it will be move-

or

Lut.]

incifions in its bark.
Its
colour is firft white, foon after green
but, when it comes to be old, it is of

in order to keep her fteady.

2.

[ntelijla,

by making

To put weight at the bottom of a rfiip,

ahlc-

f

Balm ofGiUad.

?« Ba'llast. 'V. a. [from the noun.]
1.

\ "•

The fpecies are, 1. Garden ba/m. 2. Garden
balm, with yellow variegated flowers. 3. Stinking
Roman balm, with fofter hairy leaves.
Miller.

fleady.
prefs ?

Dryden.

Fragrant ; odoriferous.

4.

fo that when his fore-feet are in the air,

Balm.

His lading little, and his ballafi lefs.

Sbakejpeare.

Such vifions hourly pafs before my fight.
Which from my eyes their balmy (lumbers fright.

Your praifc's argument, balm of your age }
Deareft and beft.
Sbakeffieare.
tender fmile, our forrow's only balm. TTcung^

Steers thro' the whillling winds their fteddy flight.

Why ftould he fink where nothing fcem'd to

To have their balmy (lumbers wak'd with ftrife.

Belonging to a bath or ftove.
Ba'lotade. n.f. The leap of an horfe,

So bees bear gravel Hones, whofe poiHog weight

That which is ufed to make any thing

Pcfe,

Come, Deldemona, 'tis the foldiers life

You were conduced to a gentle bath,
And balms anply'd to you.
SbaktJ^tare.

A

With fandy ballafi failors trim the boat

Drydtr.

Let India boaft her groves, nor envy we
The weeping anib^r, and the balmy tree.
3. Soothing; foft ; mild.

Any thing that fooths or mitigates pain. Ba'lneatory.

3.

As, when empty barks on billows float.

2.

M'Jton.

Producing balm.

Sbakefpeare.

mikin:.

>t«

Soon dry'd.
2.

No competition arriving to a fufficicnt number

But lads and lallcs round about him throng.
Not ballad-finger, plac'd above the crowd.

Ba'llast. n.f. [/ij/Zfl/?^, Dutch ]

Soft on the fiow'ry herb I found me laid.
In balmy fweat ; which with his beams the fun

particular

Ballota'tion. »./ [from ^«//»/.] The

No fooncr "gan he raife his tuneful fong.

at the

tickets, with

Shai.

Having the qualities of balm.

1 .

of balls, they fell to bailm fome others.
H^aiten.
Giving their votes by balloting, they lie under
no awe.
Stuift

Ba'li,ad-sinoer. n.f. [from ballad inA
fi'ig.'\ One wbofe employment is to fing

Something put

balls or

marks, privately in a box ; by counting
which, it is known what is the refult of
the poll, without any difcovery by whom
each vote was given.

Saucy li^ors
Will catch at us like ftrumpets, and fcali'd rhimers
Ballad uj out o' tune.
Sbakfjbeare.

ballads in the ftreets.

The aft of voting by ballot.

Oppreft nature fleeps i

Tbii reft might yet have balm'd thy fcnfei.
Ba'lmy. adj. [from balm.]

To Ba'llot. -v. n. [balloler, Fr.] To
choofe by ballot, that is, by putting

TeBA'LLAD. "J. n. [from the noun.] To
make or fing ballads.

I.

A

[Ih fireworks.]
ball of paReboard,
combuftible matter, which,
when fired, mounts to a confiderable
height in the air, and then burlb into
bright fparks of fire, refembling liars.
Ba'i. LOT. n.f. [ballote, Fr.]
1. A little ball or tjcket ufed in giving
votes, being put privately into a box or
3.

To light the coftly fuppers and the tallt.

An'

BAL

B A L

It* golden fconces hang not on the wills,

Ba'llao. n.f.

;

;
.

;

unftuous ;

mitigating ;

foft

oily.

If there be a wound in my leg, the vital energy

of my

foul thrulls out tlie baljamical

my bl.iod to heal it.

humour of
Hale,

The aliment of fuch as have frefli wounds ought
be fuch as keeps the humours from putrefa^ion, and renders them oily and baljamick.
to

jirlutlnot,

Ba'luster. n.f. [according to Du Cange,
from balaufirium, low Lat. a bathingA fmall column or pilaller,
from an inch and three quarters to four
Their diinches fquare or diameter.

place.]

menfions

;

BAN

menlions and forms are various ; they
are frequently adorned with mouldings ;
they are placed with rails on flairs, and
in the fronts of galleries in churches.

foregoing fenfe, is to be deduced
from ban, to curfe, or bane, to poifon.
In thy clofet pent up, rue my Ihame,
And ban ourenemres, both mine and thine. Shuk*
Before thefe Moors went a Numidian pr'.eft,
bellowing outcharms, and cafttng fcrowls of paper
on each fide, wherein he curfed and banntd the

Carezv.

Ba'lustrade. n./. [from ialufter."]

An

Bana'na TVf?. A fpecies of plantain.
Band. n./. [benJe, Dutch; band, Saxon.]

upon a terras, or the top of a building,
for feparating one part from another.

1.

A tie ; a bandage ; that by which one
thing is joined to another.

Bam, BtAM, being initials in the name

day.

You fliall find the band, that feems to tie their
fricndlhip together, will be the very ftrangler of
their amity.

2.

larger than our ordinary reeds, which
are knotty and feparated from fpace to
fpace by joints.
The bamboo is much
larger than the fugar-cane.
yo Bambo'ozle. 'J/, a. [a cant word not
ufed in pure or in grave writings.]
To
deceive ; to impofe upon ; to confound.
AJ-'ter Nick had bcrmbooxUd about the money,
Arhuthnit.
John ca'led for counters.
Bambo'ozler. n. f. [from bambooscU ."]
tricking fellow ; a cheat.
There are a (et of fellows they call banterers

lefs

So wild a beaft, fo tame ytaught to be,

His wife, whom cruelly you hold in bands. DryJ.
3. Any means of union or connedlion be-

To jnin in Hymen's bands.
Sbaktfpeare.
Something worn about the neck ; a

4.

neckcloth. It is now reftrained to a
neckcloth of particular form, worn by
clergymen, lawyers, and ftudents in
colleges.
For his mind I do not care ;
Let his title be but great,
His cloaths rich, and band lit neat. Ben yonfon.
He took his lodging at the manlion-houfe of a
taylor's widow, who waihes, and can dear-llarch
his bands,

In old ftatues of ftone in

6.

that the lead did fweil.

Bacon.

[In architefture.]

Any flat low member

plinth.

A company of foldiers.

7.

And, good my lord of Somerfet, unite

Your troops of horfejnen with his hands of foot.
Sbakefpeare.

A company of perfons joined together
any common defign.
We few, we happy few, we band of brothers.

in

Saluting took her rival by the hand.
Dryden.
On a fiidden, methought, this fele^ band fprang
forward, with a lefolution to climb the afcent, and
follow the call of that heavenly mufick,
TaiLr,
Strait the thrttbands prepare in arms to join, .
Each band the number of the facred Nine.
Fsfe,

A great oveiGght it was of St. Peter that he
^id not accurfe Nero, whereby the pope might have
got all i yet what need of fuch a ban, fince friar
Vincent rould tell Atabalipa, that kingdoms were

To Band.

the pope'i ?

1.

3. InterdidHon.

t/.

a.

The facrcd fruit, facred to abftincnce.

Have 6ird their pockets full of pebble (tones.

And banding themfclves in contrary parts.
Do pelt at one another's pates.
Shakiffeare.

Milt,

Ban of tht Empire ; a publick cenfure
by which the privileges of any German

Some of the boys handed themfelves as for the
major, and others for the king, who, after fix days
Ikirmilhing, at lalt made a compofirion, and de-

prince are fufpended.

He proceeded fo far by treaty, that he was prof-

Carno.

parted.

fered to have the imperial ban taken off Alrapinus, upon fubmiflion.
Hnuell.

They, to live exempt

From Heav'ri's high jurifdiftion, in new league
Sanded againll his throne.

a. [bannen, Dutch, to curfe.]

wor4> in

My friends are furprifed to find two bandboxes
among my books, till I let them fee that they are
lined with deep erudition.

Addijon..

With empty bandbox (he delights to range.

And feigns a diftant errand from the 'Change.

Ba'ndelet. n.f. [bandelet, Fr. in architeclure.]
Any little band, flat moulding, or fillet.

Ba'ndit. n.f.

[bandito, Ital.]

2.

A man.

outlawed.

No favage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer.
Will dare to foil her virgin purity.
Miltm».
No bandit fierce, no tyrant mad with pride.

Bandi'tto. n.f. in

Pope,.

the plural banditti,

[bandito, Ital.]

A Roman fworder, and banditto l\i\c,
MurderM fweet TuUy.
Sbahcfpeare.^
Ba'ndog. n. f. [from ban or band, antl
dog.
The original of this word is very
doubtful.
Cains, De Canibus Britannia
cis, derives it from band, that is, a
dog chained up.
Skinner inclines to deduce it from bona, a murderer. May
it not come from ban, a curfe, as we
fay a curji cur ; or rather from baund^.
fwelled or large, a Danijh word ; from,

whence, in fome countries, tiiey call a

A

great nut a ban-nut f^
kind of lirgedog.
'X he time of night when Troy was fet on (ire.
The time when fcieech-owls cry, and bandogs howl.
Shake ptare' s Henry VI..

Or privy, or pcrt^if an) bin.

We hnvegreat bandings -nWi tear their (kin. Spcnfcr,
Bandole'ers.

f

n.
[bandouUers, Fr.J
Small wooden cafes covered with leather, each of tl'.em containing powderthat is a fufficient charge for a mu&et.

[banderol, Vr.]

A little

flag or flreamer ; the little fringed filk
flag tliat hangs on a trumpet.

Th^ bifhop, and the duke of Glo'fter's men,

to execrate.
Shall we think that it banab the work which
tbey leave beliind them, or-taketh »way the ufe
thereof?
Hcoier.

roller

Ba'ndrol. n.f.

[from banJ.'\

To unite together into one body or
troop.

Bold deed to eye

;

or
wrapt over a wounded member ; and, fometimes, for the aft or
praftice of applying bandages.
Ba'udbox. n.f. [from ^«W and ^oa:.] A
flight box ufed for bands, and other
things of fmall weight.
It is ufed, in furgery, for the fillet

Sbakcfpeare,

The queen, in white array before her band.

Shakijftarr't Hamht,

It is uncertain whether this

the feet of

or moulding, called alfo fafcia, face, or

Widi Hecate's iju thrice blaftcd, thrice infefted.

To curfe

cellars,

them being bound with leaden bar:ds, it appeared

'Tis (he is fubcontraded to this lord,

To Ban. 1/.

jiddljcn.

Any thing bound round another.

5.

And t her hufliand contradid your hanu Staktff.
To draw her neck into the ijni.
UuJilrai.
2. A curfe ; excommunication.
Thou mixture rank of midnight weeds colIe£led,

Much more to lafic it, under ban to touch.

Sivift^s Gulliver,

2.

No cavern'd hermit, reds felf fatisfy'd-

That 's a toy that I could fpare:

8.

Raleigh.

Addifon.

Cords were fattened by hooks to my bandages,
which the workmen had girt round my neck.

Cay^s *trivia^

Here 's eight that mud take hands

»ni bambmzlers, that play fuch tricks. Arbuihnot.

bar ic in the interell of my wife

bandage over her eyes ; though one would not have
expected to have feen her reprefented in fnow.

tween perfons.

Ban. n.f. [ban, Teut. a publick procla-

1

This is now ufually fpelt,

properly, bond.

And buxom to his bands, is joy to fee. Bub, 7a/e,
Since you deny him entrance, he demands

A

mation, as of profcription, interdifiion,
excommunication, public fale.]
1. Publick notice given of any thing,
whereby any thing is publickly commanded or forbidden. This word we
ufe efpecially in the publifhing matrimonial contrafts in the church, before
marriage, to the end that if any man
can fay againft the intention of the parties, either in refpeft of kindred or
otherwife, they may take their exception in time,
.^nd, in the cannon law,
hanna j'unt proclamationes Jfonji l^ ffonfre
in iccUJiis fieri folita.
CotvfU.

Shaktfpeare,

A chain by which any animal is kept
in reftraint.

Gib/on.

Bamboo', n. f. An Indian plant of the
reed kind. It has feveral ftioots much

bows of the faddle, to

hold the bows in the right fituation.
E(a'ndage. n.f, [bandage, Fr.]
1. Something bound over another.
Zeal too had a place among the reft, with a

Knallcs.

CKrifl-ians.

aflemblage of one or more rows of little
turned pillars, called baluflers, fixed

of any place, ufually imply it to have
been woody ; from the Saxon beam,
which we ufe in the fame fenfc to this

nailed upon tlie

the

This fliould fiill have been planched over, ard
railed about with ^(3/tf/?erj.

4.

BAN

BAN

Milton.

To bind over with a band.

Ba'ndy. «./ [from i^««;/,»r, Fr.]

A

club
turned round at bottom, for ftriking a
ball at play.

To Ba'ndy. v. a. [probably from bandy,.
the inftrument with which tliey llrike
balls at play, which, being crooked,.
is named from the term bander ; as,
bander un arc, to firing or bend a bow.]'
I. To beat to and fro, or from one toanother.

And by his mother ftood an infant lover.
With wing) unfledg'd, his eyes vtn banded over.
Bryden.

Bands of a Saddle, are two pieces of iron

They do cunningly, from one hand to another,
bandy the fcrvittiJc like a tennis bi.il.
Spenfer.
And like a ball bandy\i 'twixt pride and wit,
Rather than yield, both fides the prize will '.juit.
Vinkttm*
Wijac

;

Whit from the trop'.ck* c»n the e«rtfc repel }
Wliat viguruui arm, what repercuflivc blow,

To exchange

;

and the hauks of a rivtr, hrook, or tssaXX

1. Deftruftive.
'1

BanJiet the mighty globe ftill to and tVo ? Blackm.

2.

BAN

BAN

BAN
to give and take reci-

he fiiver eagle too it Cent before,
Which I do hope w'll prove to them as ianeful,
As thou conceiv'll it to the commonwealth.

Ben yonjen,

procally.

The nightly wolf is baneful to the fold,

Da jfou ianJji looks with me, jou tafcal?

Storms to the wheat, to buds the bitter cold. Dryd.

Sbakeffeart.

'Tis not in thee
To grudg* my plcaruriis, to cut oiF m^ train,
To TaKjy haliy words.
Siakrfpeare

To agitate

to tofs aboitt.
This hath been fo handird amongit Mi, that
Lechcne can hardly niifs bookii of thi^ kind.
Ever fincc men have been united into governments, the endeavours after univerfal monarchy
li:ivc been KtulieJ among then™
£iaift.
Let not obvi.'us and known troth, or-ibmcof
the molt plain jiid certain propjfitions, be tandictt
Walls.
about in a difputacion.
contend, as at fome
ff1»BA'^f BV. 1'. n.
3.

Ba'nefulness.

To Banc.

GiawWe,

as much a queftion as ever.

A

Ba'ndvleg. n.f. [from bander, Fr.]
.crooked leg-

He tells aloud your greateft failing,
Nor makes a fcruplc to expofe
Vour bardylcg, or crooked nofc.

'v.

To beat

a.

purpofe.

early loll !

deep.

Shaktfpeare.

Supplies the banks with twenty chofen oars. Dryd,
1 hat banks of oars were not in the fame plain,
but railed above one another, is evident from defcriptions of ancient Ihips.
Arbuihnot,

A place where money is laid up to be

4.

You Ihould accoll her with jells fire-new from

called for occafionaily.

the mint ; you Ihould have banged the youth into

dumbnefs.

Let it be no bank, or common flock, but every
man be madcr of hi:, own money. Not that I al-

Shakejpeari.

A blow;

Bang. n.f. [from the verb.]

a thump ; a (Iroke : a low word.

but they will hardly be
Bacon's Effays,
This mafs of treafurc you fhould now reduce;
But you your dure have hoarded in hmtbank.
D.r.tam,
There pardons and indulgences, and giving men
a fharc in faints merits, out »{ the common bank
and trcalury of the church, which the pope has the
fole cud dy of.
Saith,

together miflike banks,

brookrd.

I am a bachel.>r
That 's ti fay, t ey are f 'Oh
that marry ; you'll bear me a bang for that. $bak.

-

With many a fttft' thwack, many a ban^.
Hard crabtrec anJ old iron rang.
Hudibras,
f!iuifi,

:

odd figure.

CJlier,

now ufed only in converfation.
If we bangU away the legacy of pv^ace left us bv
Chrill, it is a fign of our wantof rega-d for hini.

i, Poifon.
Begone, or e!fe let me. 'Tis bane to draw
Ben Jmjm.
The fame air with thee.
All good to me becomes
Saner, and in beav'n much worfe would he my
Aate.
Milun.
They with fpeed
Their courfc through thickell conAellations held,
Mdlcn.
Spreading their i»-iif.
Thus am I doubly arm'd ; my death and life.
My bane and antidote, are both before rac.
This, in a monwnt, brings me to an end ;
But that informs me I Ihall never die.
Addifcn.

of the Chriftian religion.

Hii^kcr,

I will not be afraid of death and bane.

Till Birnam forell come toDunfmanc. Shakcf^care.
Suffices that to mc rtrength is rp\ bare,
And proves the fuurce of all my mifcries. Milton,
So cntertai.i'd thofc odorous fwcets the fiend.

Milan,
Who came their bane,
Who can oir.it the Gracchi, who declare

The Scipios worth, thol<^ tliunderbolts of wir.
Drydcr,.
The double banc of Carthage?
Falfc religion is, in its nature, the grciteft htine
anddcllru£tion to po\T:rnment in the world. South.

^0 Bane. f. a. [from the noun.] To poifon.

What if my houfc be troubled wirh a r.it,
And 1 be pleasM to give ten ihoufond ducats
Shakef]>iare.
To have ic band?
Ba'neful. oilj. [from i«nf and/a//.]

Bank. <v. a. [from the noun.]

t.

To inclofe with banks.
Amis the cliffs
And burning fands, that bank the flirubby vales.
Thomfon*

2.

Lat. probably from ban, Teut. an outlawry, or profcription ]
1. To condemn to leave his own country.
Oh, fare thee well!

Bank-bill. n.f. [from bank and bill.^
A note for money laid up in a bank, at
the fight of which the money is paid.
L°t three hundred pounds be paiu her out of my

Thofe evils thou repeat ll upon thyfclf
Have hamjh'd me from Scotland.
Shakeffeare.

To drive away.

2.

To lay up money in a bank.

ready m(mey, or i<2iil-ii//i.

Swift,

Ba'nker. n.f. [from bani."] One that
one that keeps or
trafficks in money
;

Bar^ijh bufinefs, banijh forrow.

To the God' belongs to-morrow.

C;mky.
It is for wicked men only to dread God, and to
endeavour to hanijb the t!ioughts of him out of
their minds.
Tilkifon.
Succefslefs all her foft carefles prove,
To bawJJj fiO;n his bread his ciuntry's love. Pope.

B.'^'nisher. n.f. [from ban!fi."] He that
forces another from his own country.
In mere fpite.

To he fuM quit of thofc my banifhen.
Stand I before thee here.

manages a bank.
Whole droves of lenders crowd the banker'i doors,

To call in money.

Dryden.

By powerful charms of gold aid filver led,
The Lombard barkers and tlic 'change to w tile.
Dryden,

Ba'nkruptcy. n.f. [(torn banknipt.'\
1. The ftateof a man broken, or bankrupt.
2. The ail of declaring one's fe'f bankrupt ; as, he railed the clamours of his

Shaiefpeare.

creditors by a fudden bankruptcy.

Ba'nishment. n.f. \bamjfemetit Fr.]
Ba'nkrupt. adj. [^ianjumiitc, Fr. banco1. The ad of banifhing another; as, he
rotto, Ital.]
\}x debt beyond the power
,

fecured liimfelf by the banifliment of his
enemies.
2. The Hate of being baniflied ; exile.

of payment.
The king's grown bankrupt, like a broken man.
Shakefpeait,
Sir, if you fpend word f ^r word with

NftAf go we in content

To liberty, and not to bamjhmcnf.

Shakf^eare
Round the wide world in ban'ijhmen: we roam,
Forc'd from our p'.eafi;ig fieUs .md native home.

I fhall

make your wit bankrupt.

me,

Shakefpeare,

It is faid that the money-changers
of Italy had benches, probably in the
burfe or exchange
and that when any
became iiilolvent, his ban
was roito,
It w.is once
his bench was broke.
;

BANK. tt.r. [banc, Saxon.]

To taint with deadly drugs the b.irbed dart

1.

Obfervant of the |ads, and lleinly ju!t,
Itus refui'd tu inipart the baneful trull.

Ttf

To BA'NISH. V. a. [banir, Fr. banie, low

Dry den

Poifonou.'.
For voyaging to learn the direful art,

The company of perfons concerned in
managing a bank.

5.

Duly of Alan.

That which dellroys ; mifchief; ruin.
muft be reprcft, or it will be the hane

IValler,

Mean time the king with gif:s a vefTel ftores,

j^rbutbnit.

That their defignmcnt halts.

A feat or

Fiac'd on rneir banks, the ludy Trojans fweep
Neptune's fmooth face, and cleave the yielding

lence, in general.
The defperate temped hath fo bang'd the Turks,

BANE. n.y. [bana. Sax. a murderer,]

I.

[from banc, Fr. a bench.]
bench of rowers.

3.

To handle roughly; to treat with vio-

To Ba'kgi. E. 1). a. To wade by little and
little ; to fquander carelefsly
a word

Inl'oler.cy

They befiegedhim in Abciof Bethmaachah, and
they cad uf^ibank againll the city ; and it flood
Samuel.
in the trench.

into his fervants hands to fence with, and bang

preflcd when too poor.

Pope,

!

Any heap of earth piled up.

2.

one another.
Locke.
Formerly I was to be banged becaufe I was too
ftrong, and now becaufe 1 am too weak, to refill j
I am to be brougiit down when too rich, and op2.

what tears the river fhed.

When the lad pomp along his banks was led

Hrniel.

He having got fime iron out of the earth, put
it

To fill their idAjli, but not to overthrow. Denhantt

;

The tthiopians had an one-eyed bandylegged
prince ; fuch a perfun would have made b.it an

i.

Wbofe^ijn i the Mules dwelt upon.
Crajha'w,
'Tis happy when our ftreams of knowledge flow

[t^f/^o/t-w, Dutch.]

I heard fcveral langs or buffets, as I thought,
given to the eagle that held the ring of my box in
his beak.
Siuifl'i CulUvir.

.

A

Was lov'd, was honour'd as a flood j

Baniijleg.'\

SA'NDyLE.GGED. aJJ [froHl
Having crooked legs.

If they were his alTillanu.
Hhakefptartt
brook whofe ftream fo great, fo good.

iaite/uL]

to thump ; to cudgel : a low
and fanniliar word.
One riceiving from them fome affronts, met
with them handfomely, and banged them to goou

1.

in which each ftrives to drive
ihe ball his own way.
No fimple man that .^fees

It is

[from

A plant the fame with dtadly nightfiade.

^ame,

.Made lords and commonei^ lay lieges
HuAihras.
"To one one anotlicr's privileges.
After all the bandyhg attempts of refolution,

/.

Ba'newort. »./. [from iaitt and •wert.']

To

A

».

Poifonoufnels ; deftruftivenefs.

;

"This {i&\G^ibandyhig of their favourites,
3ut that he dorh prcfage fome ill event. Sbak^fp.
valiant fon-in-law thou Ihalt enjoy :
One fit to iardy with thy laulefs fons.
To rulfle in the commonwi:alth.
ShtiltffureCould let up grandee againll grandee,
To ftjiiamler time away, and bandy ;

water.
Have you not made an univerfal fliout,
That Tyber trembled underneath Hiibank T Sbakw
Richmond, in Devonlhire, fent out a boat
Unto the Ih ire, to a(k thole on the bankt.

Fof{.

Thce.Trth arifing on eaclifide of a water.
We fay, properly, \heJhori: of the/jn,

written bankeraut,

Bankerout is a verb.
Dainty,

;

.

BAP

BAN
Dainty bits

'

Mikt r'lcli the ribs, but banhmut thi! wits. Shai.
B a'n K R u p T ». /. A man in debt beyond
the power of payment/
.

Pcrkin gathered together a power, rtither

number nor in hanJincfs contemptible;

big, he giveth them many good words.

To break

;

To feaft

;

to fare

or pertaining to baptifm.
When wc undertake the baftifmal vow, and enter
on their new life, it would be apt to difcourage us.

The mind ffiall banquet, tho' the bndy pine:
Fat paunches make lean pates, and dainty bits
Make rich the ribs, but bankerout the wits. Shah.
So long as his innocence is his repaft, he feafts
and banquets upon bread and water.
South.
I purpas'd to unbend the evening hours.

but, in

lis creditors are loud and clamorous, ani fpeak

To Ba'nkrupt. 'v.a.

am I ftraitencd till it be accompli (hed ?
Luke.
Bapti'smal. adj. [from haptifm.'\ Of

daintily.

their fortunes, to be feared, being ianirufti, and
Bacon.
many of then; felons.
It is with wicked men as •'th a bar.lraft : wlicn

Calamy.
In vain at court the bankrupt pleads his caufe ;
His thanlclefs country leaves him to her laws. Fo^e.

I nave a baptifm to be baptized with, «nd how

they approached, the mott cncreafed the nobility.
Sir y, llaywaid.

To BA'Nt^uET. V. «.

m

BAR

They were banqueted by the way, and the nearer

Hanrmcnd.

Ba'ptist. n.f

He that adminifters baptifm.
Him the Bapliji foon
Defcry'd, divinely warn'd, and wicnefs bore

And banquet private in tlie women's bow'rs. Prior,

Ba'nqueter.

todifI .

A feafter

;

/.

tt.

As to his worthier.

[from banquet.l

Ba'ptisterv.

one that lives delicioufly.

z. He that makes feafts.
We caft off the care of all future thrift, becaufe Ba'nciuet. HOUSE.
7 w.yr [from ^/TffHammc-nd.
wc ar« already bankruptfd*
n. f.

\banmere, Fr.

banair,

Ten thouiand banners rife into the air.
With orient colours waving.
He faid no more

trees, the table was fet near to an excellent water-

work.

Milton.

a ftickleback.

MJiJin.

A

ftreamer bom at the end of a lance,
or el fc where.

Blount.

Ba'nter. n.f. [from the verb.]

K ng Ofwald had a banntrel of gold and purple

fupptffcd to m;ike their wit

Ba'nterer. n.f.

Bannians in the Eaft Indies.

doors thereof,
thereof.

3

\ivOTa. banter. '\

the divine power ?

One

Or what have they to fay for

this mockery and contempt ?

L'Ejirange.

Ba'ntling. n.f.

[If it has any etymology, it is perhaps corrupted from the
old word bairn, bairnling, a little child.]

BA'NQUET. n.f. {banquet, Vt. banchetio,
Span.] A feaft ; an entertainment of meat and drink.
ital. va/tqueto.

A little child

If a fading day come, he hath ou that day a
Hicker.
ianfltet to make.
In his commendations 1 am fed j
It is a banquet to me.
Sbakefpeare.
Yon cannut have a perfirft palace, except you
hive two fides j a lide for the banquet, and a lidc for
the houfchold \ the one for fcafts and triumphs, antl

:

a low word.

If the obje^ of their love
Chance by Lucina's aid to prove.
They feldom let the bantling roar,
lu b.ilkct, at a neighbour's door.

4.

Ba'ptism. n.f. lbafitifmus,Lzt.i?a7rlio-f^k-]
1.

An external ablution of the body, with
a certain form of words, which operates
and denotes an internal ablution or v/afliing of the foul from original fin. Ayliffe.

\

Baptijm is given by water, and that prefcript form
of words which the church of Chrift doth ufc.
Hooker.

To his great baptifn flock'd,

V.'lth awe, the regions round and with them came
From Nazareth tlie fon of Jofcph dcem'd,
f. a. [from the noun.]
Unmark't, unknown.
Milton.
To treat any one with feafts.
2. Bapiifm is often taken ia Scripture for
Welcome his friends,
Vifit his countrymen and banquet them. SbaMp.'
fufferings.
.

j

TsBa'nqcet.

'

and the bars

Nchemiah.

Any obftacle which liinders or obftruils

A

rock, or bank of fand, at the entrance of a harbour or river, which
ftiips

Prior.

thereof,

obllruftion.

What opinion have thefe religious hanterers of

meal cake, mixed with water, and baked
npon an iron plate over the fire ; ufed in
the northern counties, and in Scotland.

the locks

I brake up for it my decreed place, and fet bart
and doors, and faid, Hitherto flialt thou come, and
no farther.
Jib.
And had his heir furviv'd him in due courfe,
Whatlimits, England, hadft thou found ? whatiar?
What world could have refilled ? Dan. Civ. fVar,
Hard, thou know'ft it, to exclude
Spiritual fubftance with corporeal bar.
Milton.
Muft I new bars to my own joy create,
Rcfufe myfclf, what I had forc'd from fate ? Dryd.
Fatal accidents have ftt
A moft unhappy ^flr between yourfricndfliip. Hotce.

IVatts.

that banters ; a droll.

B a'n NOCK. n.f. A kindofoatenor peafe-

Vol.1.

wall, to hold the door clofe.
The filh-gjte did the fons of Hafienaah build)
who alfo laid the beams thereof, and fft up the

_

and banter a refuge

and excufe for their own lazinefs.

morning gown, fuch as is worn by the

the other for dwcUinp.
Bacon.
Shall the companions make a banquet of him r
T.i3\\ they part him among the merchants ? jfob.
At that tailed fruit,
The fan, as firom Thyefttan banquet, tutn'd
H\s courfc intended.
MUton.
That dar";» prclV^r the toUi of Hercules
To dalliance, bartqaots, and ignoble e^fe. Dryden.

A

many fubjefts, that tbofe, who ridicule it, will be

Camden.

A man's undrefs, or

adminifters

Apiece of wood, iron, or other matter,
laid crofs a pafTage to hinder entrance.
And he made the middle bar to Ihoot through
the boards from the one end to the other. Exodus.
2.
bolt ; a piece of iron or wood fattened
to a door, and entering into the poft or

h'Ejirange.

Mctaphylicks are fo neccflary to a diftir.ft conception, (olid judgment, and juft reafoning on

or .ftreamer.

that

1.

the moft pernicious fn.irco in human life.

A little flag

one

BAR. n.f [barre, Fr.]

paifes many times for frolick and banter, is one oi

properly Banderol.

chriftens;

baptifm.

Ridi-

cule ; raillery.
This humour, let it look never fo filly, as it

the Icing anfwcred, he doubted not that, but marCamJen.
velled how a fool could know.

n. /.

that

bade an officer take him into culiody. L'Ejirange.
It is no new thing far innocent fimplicity to be
the fubjefk of bantering drolls.
L'Ejirange.
Could Alcinous' gueDs with-hold
From fcorn or rage? Shall we, cries one, permit
His icud ronr.ances, and \\i%.bant''ring wit i
Tate.

that Sir Richard
Croftes, made banneret at Stoke, was a wile man j

fet over his tomb.

Bapti'zer. n.f [from To baptize.] One

from badiner, Fr.] To play upon ; to
rally; taturn to ridicule ; to ridicule.
The magillrate took it that he bantered him, and

A gentleman told Henry,

Ba'nnian.

Pungitiui.

without etymology, unleis it be derived

are next to barons in dignity; and were
anciently called by fummons to parlia-

[from bandirole, Fr.]

Let us refleft that we are Chriftians j that we
are called by the name of the Son of God, and
baptized into an irreconctleable enmity with fin,
the world, and the devil.
Rogers.

To BA'NTER. -v. a. [a barbarous word,

Ba'nneret. X. /. [from ianiier.'] A
knight made in the field, with the ceremony of cutting off the point of his
ftandard, and making it a banner. They

«./.

MUton.

Ba'kstici-e. w.yT Afnialififli, called alfo

With Cato's foes, and follow Caefar's banners.

I Ba'nnerol, more

Baptizing in the profluent ftream, the figit
Of walhing them from guilt of fin, to life
Pure, and in mind prepar'd, if fo befal.
For death, lilcc that which the Redeemer died.

they fire.

Dryden.

FirM with fuch motives, you do wcU to join

ment.

And his falvation ; them who (liall believe.

pet, for the foldiers to mount upon when

;

2.

He to them jhall leave in charge.

To teach all nations what of him they learn'd.

Drydcn.

BAN^E'TTE. n.f. [Fr. in fortification.]
A fmall bank at the foot of the para-

But left his lifter and his queen behind.

And wat*d his royal banner in the wind.

facrament of baptifm to one.

Sidney.

At the walk's end behold, how rais'd on high

A bai:quet-houfc falutes the fouthern Iky.

Addifon.

reBAPTI'ZE. -v.a. \baftifer,'St. from
^airli^w.] To chriften ; to adminiftcr the

In a banqueiing-touje, among certain pleafant

aftandard; a military enfign.
;
From France there comes a power, who already
Have fecret fpies in fome of our bcft ports,

And are at point to ilicw their open banner, Sbai.
AU io ^ moment through the gloom were feen

The great church, baptijiery, and leaning tower,
are well worth feeing.

A houfe where banquets are kept.

A flag

1.

Milton.

f [laplijierium,hi.t.'\

tifm IS adminiftered.

Ba'nqueting-house. \ quet and hou/e.']

Welfli.]

tt.

The place where the facrament of bap-

able one from fatisfying his creditors.

Ba'nner.

[bapi/e,Fr. ^airVm-]

5.

cannot fail over at low water.

Any thing ufed for prevention, or exclusion.
IxA examination Ihould hinder and lett ypur
proceedings, behold for a iar againft that impediment, one opinion newly added*
Hobker.
Which Salique land the French unjuftly glote
to be

The founder of this law, and female bar. Shakefp.
6. The place where caufes of law are X,r\ed, or where criminals are judged ^ fo
called from the bar placed to hinder
crowds from incommoding the court.
The great duke
Came to the bar, where to his accufations
He pleaded ftiU not guilty.
Hhtikefttart.
V
Sum*

.

—

,

Some It At htr with fpbtlety defend,
Or on the bench tlie knotty Uws untye.

DryJin.

I

An inclofed place in a uvern or coffeehoufe,

where the houfekceper

fits

is

laid In

principally commenced.

that

he twanging bowi
Send (bowers of (hafts, that on their barbed pointi

God hath abridged it, by barring aafnm fome

Ba'rbacan. n.f. lbarbacane,Fi. baria-

God knows 1 will not.

Siry. Dav'iet.

2.

was thought fufScient not only to exclude
them from that benefit, but to bar them/rcm their
Ctarcndcn.
money.
If he is qualified, why is he barred the profit,
when he only performs the conditions ? Col. on PriJe.

3.

For though the law of arms doth bar
Hudibau
The ufe of venom'd fliot in war.
What is a greater pedant than a mere man of
the town
Bar him the playhoufes, and you ftiike

But in good order, and wi h due regard. Fairy iQ.
fortrefs at the end of a bridge.

A

An opening in the wall through which
the guns are levelled.

Barba'does CA/rr)i. [malfhigia, Lat.]
In the Wed Indies, it rifes t) be fifteen or fixteen feet high, where it produces gri;at quantities of
a piealant tart fruit ; propagated in gardens there,

To prohibit.

7.

but in Europe it is a curiofity.

ftance, differing little

to a fort of mould, and never wrought.
The upper part of
12. Bars of a Horfe.
the gums between the tufks and grinders,
which bears no teeth, and to which the
bit is applied, and, by its fridlion, the

9.

Addijon,

To except

;

Wood'ward's Method of Foffih.

Barba'rian.

[Inlaw.] Tohindertheprocefsofafuit.
But buff and belt men never know ihefe cares ;
No time, nor trick of law, their aflion ban :

not difable or bar h"« adverfary.

To bar

10.

denomination of price ; payment being
formerly made to the Negroes almoll
wholly in iron bars.
Earshot, n.f. Two half bullets joined
together by an iron bar ; ufed in fea engagements for cutting down the mafts
and rigging.

a.

vage.
Froud Greece all nations elfc barbarians held,
BoalUng, her learning all the world exceli'd.

and barbarians*

vein.

BARB. n.f. [/5<j;-^«, a beard, Lat.]
1. Any thing that grows in the place of a
beard.

The barbel is fo called, by reafon of the barb or

To fallen or ftiut any thing with a bolt,

Denbam*
Theic were not different gods among the Greeks

Ayliffe.

This is an operation performed upon
the veins of the legs of a horfe, and other
parts, with intent to flop the malignant
humours. It is done by opening the fkin
above it, difengaging it, and tying it
both above and below, and firiking between the two ligatures.

To Bab. 'u. a. [from the noun.]

ed Ibme degree of wildnefs or cruelty.]
A maa uncivilized ; untaught ; a la-

1

If a bilhop be a party to a fuir, and excom.nunicates his adverfary, fuch excommunication fhall

in Mufick, are ftrokes drawn
perpendicularly acrofs the lines of a
piece of raufick ; ufed to regulate the
beating or meafure of mufical time.
14. Bar, in African traffick, is uftd for a

2.

T* obey in all your daughter's hard commands j
Though their injunQion be to bar my doors,
let this tyrannous niglit

take hold upon you.
Sbnifjprare.

1

dy's bed-chamber at nights, leave open the falhes

3.

To prevent

;

What had he done ? what could provoke thy madnefs

To a(ra(rinatc fo great, fo brivc a man ? A. Pbilifs.
Barba'rian. adj. Belonging to barbarians ; lavage.

Some felt tiie filent ftroke of mould'ring ag?,

them on.

With diamond flaming and barl^arick gold.

Barb. ». /.

[contrafted from Barbary.]

Ba'rbarism. n.yl [barbari/mui, Lat.]

a

for Itillions.

1.

and very lean, ulually cliofen

I.

To (have

;

to drefs out the beard.

h.ive for barbarifm

fpoke mote

Than for that angel knowledge you can fay. Stai..
The genius of Raphael having, fucoeeded to tlje

Shattfpeare.

To furnifh horfes with armour.

Ignorance of arts ; want of learning.
1

the head, and tie the bead, and fay it
wa, the dtCu'^ of the penitent to be fo barbed bcfoie
his J-iatti.

A form of fpeech contrary to the purity
and exadnels of any language.
Drydens ywiteral. Dedication*

2.

i>)\avc

a.

Pc^e.

The language is as ncjr appioaching to it. as
our moicrn barbarifm willalloWj whit:h is all that
can be expefted from any now extant.

S.irbt, it is. faid, may die, but never

grow old; the vigour and mettle of barbs ncvc
Furrier's DiS.
ceaf; bu: with their life.
7a Barb. f. a. [from the noun.]

tude in fuch things as were repugnant to his ordiHooker.
nances, laws, and ftatutcg ?

with yroOT,

ParadifeLijt..

The eaftern front was glorious to bthold.

A Barbary horfe.
(lender Ijgbi fizc,

ir»

The gorgeous Eaft, with riclied band,
Show'rs on her kings harbariik pearl and gold.

Hoifes brouy .L from Barbary, are commonly of

::

Lat.

were naked, without any ba-bi
brought jar^i, lew i-egarded to put
Hayivard.

to exclude ; to make im-

T» detain, by excluding the claimants

P^fie*

[barbaricui,

a different fenle, it means in Latin
<wrought, fretted.'] Foreign ; far-fetched..

The armour for horfes.
lijiica

:

a term of reproach.
Thou fell barbarian I

Barba'rick. adj.

prafticable.

as giving thereby to und^rftand, thjt his- rneinIng in the former fcntencc was but to bar fimili-

Shakifp- Ccrislanus,

;

arrow, or filliing-hook, to hinder them
from being extradted.
Nor 1-fs fir Sjiartan fear'd, before he found

for albeit uuny

The houfes of the country \*«re ill ftattcrcd,
and yet not fo far ofl'as that it barrtJ mut^'ni ficSiJuy.
cour.
Dath it not feeni a thing Tery probable, thit
Cod doth purp-)fely add, Do after my judgments;

tter'd.

Barbanan blinJnefs.

Their

». To hinder ; to obftruft.

When law can d» no- right,
Let it be lawful, that law bar no wrong. Sheiifp.

I

A brutal monfter aman without pity

3.

The points that ftand backward in an

Sivift.

to let in air.

would they were barbarians, as they are.

Though ill Rome

Thclhining/^tfriapiearabove thewound. Fife's 11.

When you bar the window-ftiutters of your la-

AJdifvn*

A foreigner.

2.

H-'alton's Angler.

My duty carniot fulfer

StiUingJieet*

But with dcl'cending (how'rsof brimilonefir'd,

The wiid barbarian in the dorm expir'd.

wattels at his mouth, or under his chaps.

or bar.

It

reign or i foreigner; but, in time, impli-

Aylife.

13. Bars,

[barbarus, Lat.

n.f.

feems to have figniSed at firll only a. fo-

Drydcn.
Their caufc they to an eafier ilTue put.
From fuch delays as conduce to the finding out
of truth, a criminal caufe ought not to be barred*

horfe governed.

Mtller,

bituminous fubfrom the petro-

leum floating on feveral fprings in England and Scotland.

to make an exception.

Well, we (hall fee your bearing
Nay, but I bar to-night ; you fhall not gage me
Shaktjpeare,
By what we do to-ni^ht.

A

Barba'does Tar.

.'

hini dumb.

8.

4.

Within the barbatan > porter fate,

Day and night duly keeping watch and ward :
Nor wight nor word m tc pafs out of the gate.

It

10. Any thing which is laid acrofs another, as bars in heraldry.
Bar of Geld or Silver, is a lump or
1 1
wedge from the mines, melted down in-

3.

of a town.

Sbakefpcarc.

So, if the father's crime be capital,
In all the blood law dotli corruption make.

Ayliffe.

A fortification placed before the walls

1
!

His civil afts do bind and bar them all j

is

Piilift.

cana. Span.]

Hooktr.

And as from Adam all corruption take.

yctiah,

And

Alternate ruin bear.

things of themfdves inuift'crent.
Give my voice on Richard's fide.
To bar my mdfter's heirs in true dcfcent

ftrufture is held together.
I went down to the bottoms of the mountains :
the earth, with her ben, was about me for ever.

J,

:

'1

withyro»i before the thing.

Any thing by which the compages or

9.

To jag arrows with hooks.

3.

Dryiitr,

coaiT.

It is di-

bar of fomething

Drydtn't Fabltt.

To exclude from ufe, right, or claim

6.

Addijor..

vided into a bar to common intent, and
a bar fpecial : a tar to a common intent, is an ordinary or gener.1l bar, that
difables the declaration or plea of the
plaintiff; a bar fpecial, is that which
15 more than ordinary, and falls out in
the cafe in hand, upon fome fpecial cirCo--well.
cumftance of the faft.
Baftardy

On borbtd deeds they rode, in proud array,
1 hick as the college of the bees in May.

whh from.

Our hope of Italy not only loft.

agalnft a demand or plea brought by the
defendant in an aftion, that deflroys the

afUon of the plaintiff for ever.

:

But (hut from cv'ry {hoie, and larr'J frim ev'ry

A peremptory exception

[In law.]

8.

A warriour train
That like a deluge pour'd upon the plain

To fhut out

5.

i

my way.

Hath he fet bound» between their Io»e and tne ?

am their raothcr ; who Ihall bar Attn from me ?
Shakefpeari.

and

receives reckonings.
I WIS under fome apprehtnfion tint thev would
and theref ire laid down my penny
tpptal to mc
at the tar, and made the bell of

BAR

BAR

BAR
7.

;

..

;

times of barbarifm and ignorance, the knowledge
of painting is now arrived to perfcftion.
Drjdcn's Dufrifmy, Preftice.

See

Barbed..
''

3-

Brutality f,-

]

,

3. Brutality; favagenefs of manners

;

BAR

about two foot above a charcoal
with which it is furrounded.

in-

civility.

Moderation ought to be haJ in tempering and
managing tlic iriih, to bring them from their de
light of licentious btirlfarifm unto tre iove of goodSj-enfir'iJreltind,
nefs and civifKy.
Divers great monarchies have nfen from barbanjm to civility, and fallen again to ruin.
Daiirs en IrJur.d^

4. Cruelty; barbarity; unpitying
nefs of heart : not in ufe.
Triey mutt perforce have melted,

Ba'rbecue.

Savagenefs ; incivil ty.
2. Cruelty ; inhumanity.
And ti.ey did [rpat him with all the rudenefs,
reproach, ard barbunty imaginable.

ti.

/.

A hog dreft whole, in

Then ftretch'd her arms t' embrace the body
biirc

'j

1.

Fiirnilhed with armour.
His g!ittering aimour he will command to ruft.
Sbakeff. Richard II.

always bare, and cxpofed to view as much as our
hands and face.
^iddijcis*

Though the lords ufed to be covered whilft the
commons were bare, yet the commons would not
be bare before the Scottiih commiiliohers ; and fo

none were covered.

Ba'rbel. n./. [barbus, Lat.]

A kind of fiih found in rivers, large and

;

•

Sviifi.

BA'RBAROUS. adj. {barbare, Fr. 0«f-

Yet was their manners then but bare and plain;
For th' antique world excefs and pride did hate,

2.

Knots of fuperfluous flelh growing up in
the channels of the mouth of a horfe.

Sfenfef,

Thefe falfe pretexts and varniftiM colours failingf
£are in thy guilt, how foul tliou mail appear !

Farrier's Dicl.

Ba'rber. n.f. [from To barb.
who (haves the beard.

A man

'\

Milton,

Were it for the glory of God, that th^ clergy
/hculd be left as lare as the apottles, wheii tliey
had neither ftaft" nor fcrip ; God would, I hcpff,
endue them with the felf-fame affeflion,
Booher^s Preface*

Even from a hare treafury, my fuccel's has been
Dryders,
contrary to that of Mr. Cowley.

Stranger to civility; favage ; uncivi-

No worthy match for valour to alt'ail.
But by the barhir''^ razor belt fubdued.

tarbarout hut hath heard of Amphialus ?
Sidney.
The doubtful djm el dare not yet commit

Her fingle pcrfon to their barbarous truth. Fairy S^.

Thou art a Roman ; be not barbarous. Hbakijf.
He left governour, Philip, for his countiy a
Phrygian, and for manners more barbarous than
he that fet him there.
Mace.
barbarous country muft be broken by war,
before it be capable of government ; and when
fubdued, if it be not well planted, it will eftfoons
return to barbarifm.
Daviis on Ireland.

A

3. Cruelly ; inhumanly.
But yet you barbaroujly murdered him. Dryden.
She wifhes it may profper ; but her mother
ufed one of her nicres very barbaroujly, Sf relator.

Ba'rbarousness. »./. [ftomlarbarouj.]
Incivility of manners.
Excel.cncies of mufick and poetry are grown
to be little more, but the one Addling, and tiie other
rhimjng j and arc indeed very worthy of the ignoiance of the friar, and the bjrbaroufne/s of the
Goths.
Trmf/e.

Impurity of language.
it IS much degenerated, as touching the purenrfi of fpeech j being overgrown with burharouf-

hrereitiwd.

nefs.

3.

To

through a defeat of knowledge; but carried, witli
thefe putfs of wind, contrary to knowledge. South*

To Ba'rber. v. a. [from the noun.]
drefs out ; to powder.
Our courteous Antony,

Cruelty.

The harbarovjnejs of the trial, and the perfuafives
of the clergy, prevaited to antiquate it.
Hale's Common Laiv.
To'B f.' t.tf.cv t. "v. a.

A term ufed in the

Weft Indies for drefling
which, being
laid fiat

fplit to

a

hog whole ;

the backbone,

is

upon a large gridiron, raifed

Threadbare ; much worn.
You haye an exchequer of words, and no other

7.

Whom ne^er the word of No woman heard fpcak.
Being iaritrV ten times o'er, goes to tke feaft.

trcafurefor your followers; for it appears, by their
bare liveries, tbac they live by your forewords.
Sbakefpearcm

Sbakrfpfare.

Barber-Chirurceon. «./ .^ man who
ber's trade ; fuch as

were

all fiirgeons

Not nnited with any thing elfe.

8.

A

defire to draw all things to the detarmination
of bare and naked Scripture, hath caufed much
pains to be taken in abating the credit of man*

Flooker*

That which offendeth us, is the great difgrace

He put himfelf into barber-ebirurgeons hands,
who, by unfit applications, ratified the tumour.
fyifeman*s Surgery.

proach in Shakefpcare , which feems to
fignify a fop ; a man decked out by his
barber.
Draw, yoo rogue

moon Ihinesj

I'll

;

for though it be night, the

make a fop of the moonihine

of you ; you whorefon, cullionly, barber •mrmger,
draw,
Shakejfeare" s King Lear.

Ba'r berry, n.f.

\barberis, Lat. or oxya-

Pipperidge bulh.
The fptcies arc, i. The common

canthm.'\

barberry.
2. Barberry without Itoncs.
'I'bc firft of thefc
forts is very common in England, afwl often planted
for hedges.
Miller.

Sarberry'ii a plant that bears a fruit very ul'eful
in houfewifery ; that which beareth its fruit with-

out itones is counted heft.

Bard. «. /

Mortimer.

A

{bardii,'Wc\(i\.']
poet.
There is among the Iriih a kind of people called

bards, which are to them instead of poets j
profeiTion

is

Sbakefpear\

Nor are men prevailed upon by bare words, only

Barber-mokcer. n./. A word of re-

Wkilefwcllingcoffers break theirownersreft. Slefn.

2.

To one whom they had puniftied.

formerly, but now it is ufed only for a
low pradifer of furgery.

Ignorantly; without knowledge or arts.
2. In a manner contrary to the rules oi'
fpeech.
We barbareufy call them bleft,

Mere ; unaccompanied with ufual recommendation.

Prior.

having thofe reliques of antiquity, retained that
barbarous manner.
Dryden.

1.

6.

It was a bare petition of a ftate

In points like thcfe we mult agice ;
Our barber knows as much as we.

joins the praftice of furgery to the bar-

BA'uBAROUSLr. ad-v. [from barbarous.

J.

Milton.

What fyllera, Dick, has right averr'd
The caufc, why woman has no beard ?

Ignorant ; nnacquainted with arts.
They who rcftorcd painting in Germany, not

Cruel ; inhuman.
By their ^i;ri<irc«i ufage, he died vtrithin a few
days, to the grief of all that knew him. Ctartndon.

3.

Poor ; indigent ; wanting plenty.

5.

His chamber bein^ ftived with friends or fuitors,
he gave his legs, arms, and brearts to his fervants
to drefs i his head :^nA fjcc to his barber, his eyes
Co his letters, and his ears to petitioners*
fVotton.

lized.

What ear is fo

Detefted ; no longer concealed.

4.

Thy Loift'rous look;

2.

fimple ; without

JVallon's .Angler.

Lat.n expieile^ that In one word, which either
the ^iir/uri/y or narrow nefa of modern tongues canDryden.
tiot iupply in more.
Aft'edicd refinements, which tnded by degrees
in many barbariim, before the CotlU had invaded

?

Chrend^.n.

plain ;

ornament.

Ihe barbel is fo called, hy reafon of tlie barb
or wattels at his mouth, or under hs chaps.

Next Pcfaxch foliowM, and in him we fee

Whit rhyme, improv'd in all its height, can be
At beft a pleaiing found, and Iweet barbarity OryJ.

What need I fay more to you

Unadorned ;

3.

ftrong, butcoarfe.

Clarcndcn.

Uncovered in refpeft.

2.

Bearded ; jagged with hooks or points.
If I conjefture right, no drirzling (how'r.
But rattling ftorm of arrows /;^r^V with fire. Afi/t.

1.

;

Her clafping hands inclofe but empty air. Diydcn,^
In the old Roman rtatues, thefe two parts were

Ba'rbed. fart. adj. [from To barb."]

Barbarifm; impurity of fpeech.

Italy.

The trees are bare and naked, which ufe both *•
cloath and houfe the kern.
Spenjer on IrelanJ.

His barbed Heeds to ftables.

1.

Naked ; without covering.

Pnpe.

the Well Indian manner,

2.

"l

BARE. ae/j. [bajie. Sax. lar, Dan.]
1

Cries, Send me, gods, a whole hn^barbecued.

hard-

Barba'rity. n.f. [^{rom barbarous

fire,

Oldfieid, with more than hirpy throat endued.

An\i harbiirijm\tW\i havepiticdhim- .'?i»iii. i?/ri.II.

1.

;

BAR

BAR

3.

.

whole

to fet forth the pfaifes or difpraifcs

of men in their p icms or rhime ; the which arc
Iiad in high regard and eltimation among them.
Spenfer on Ireland.

which they ofter unto our cuftom oi bare reading
Hooker*
the word of Cod.
flenderly fupplied
9. Wanting clothes j

with clothes.

Sometimes it has of before the thing
wanted or taken away.

10.

Tempt not tile brave and needy to defpair;
For, tho' your violence ftiould leave them bare
Oygold and filvcr, fwords and darts remain,
Dryden^s JuvenaU
Making a law to reduce intereft, will not raile
the price of land; itWill only leave the country
barer of money,
Locke*

To Bare. 'v. a. [from the adjedlive.] Ta
firip
to make bare or naked.
;

Tile turtle, on the bared branch.

Laments tli; wounds that death did launch.
Spenfer,

There is a fabulous narration, that an herb
groweth in tlic likencfs of a lamb, and feedeth
upon the grois, in fuch fort as it will bare the grafs
Bacon^s Natural Uijlory*
round about.
Eriphyle here he found
her
breaft
yet
Baring
bleeding witii the wound.
Urydei^
H/ bar'd an ancient oak of all her boughs
Tiien on a rifing ground the trunk he pi ic'd,

And many bards that to the trembling chord

Drydau
For virtue, when I point the pen.

Can tune their timely voices cunningly. Fairy ^_
The bard who firft adorn'd our native tongue
Tun'd to his Britiih lyre this ancient fong,

Bare the mean heart that lurks beneath a ftar j
Can there be wanting, to defend her caule.

Which Homer might without a blufh rehearfe.

Light* of the diurch, or guardians oi the lavs }

Dryden.

Poft.

U 2

Bakc«

;

Bare, br Bore. The pnteritt of Jo bear.
See To Bear.
Ba'reBone. n. /. [from hare and bcne.l
Lean, fo that the bones appear.
Here comes leaa Jack, here comes lartttme :

how long i< it tgo. Jack, fmce thou faweft thy
Sbai^peart'i Hfiry IV.
own kaeet
Ba'refaced. atlj. [from bare andyjj^r]
1. With the face naked ; not ma&ed.

4.

The anin-.ofitifs encreafed, «Bd the parties apClarendon.
peared barefaci:d againil each other.
It is moft certain, tiut htrefaccd bawdry is the
Dryiir.
poorefl pretence to wit imaginable.

3.

Having no fhoes.
4.

He bimfelf, with a rope about his neck, barecame to oS'er himfelf to the difcretion of

Lconatus.

Sidney.

[from bare and

adj.

Eaten bare.
Know my name is loft.
Sbakffpeare*] King Lear.

terminate

in

one

Sbakejpeare's Mirry Wives of Windfor,
In vain the herdman calls bim back again ;
The dogs Hand off afar, and bark in vain. Onalcy,
th' town ?

An event

;

an upfhot

:

Sioift.

a low fenfe.

2.

flrip trees of their bark.

The feveteft penalties ought to be put upon
barking any tree that is not felled.
Temple.
Thefe tiees, after they are barked, .and cut into
fliape, are tumbled down from the mountains into

the ilream.

Stripped of the bark.
Excorticated and bark-bared trees may be-preup a Ihoot from the foot^
or below the ftrippcd place, cutting the body of-the
tree Hoping off a little above the flioot, and it will
heal, and be covered with bark*
MortiiKer,
feivcd by nourVfliing

Vryden.

fures.

He

a bargain.

See

or Ihe that

Ba'rker. n.f,

accepts

Bargain.
Ba'rgainer. n.f. [hom bargain.] The
perfon who proffers, or
gain.
See Bargain.

makes a bar-

BARGE, n.f. [bargie, Dutch, from barga,

[{tora bark.]

One that barks or clamours.

1.

Addifott on Italy.

-

Addipn.

Bark-bared, adj. [from ^ari and, i(jr^.]

The thrifty (late will bargain ere they fight.

Bargainee', n. f. [from bargain.]

purfue with re-

Vile is the vengeance on the aflies cold.

For thofe that arc like to be ip plenty, they may
Bacon.
be bargained for upon the ground.

republick of Lucca, ty the help of his great trea-

to

And envy bafe, 10 hark atdeeping fame. Fairy S^,
You dare patronage
The envious barking of your faucy tongue
Againft my lo(d
Shakeffeare.
To Bark. v. a. [from the noun.] Tp

Ctnoell.

:
often withyir before the
thing.
Henry is able to enrich his queen.
And not to feek a cjueen to make him rich.
So worthlefs peafants bargain fr their wives.
As market men for oxen, flieep, or horfe. Shak.

To clamour at ;
proaches.

;

of any thing

And living too, for now his fon is duke«—

What hath he done more than a bafe cur ?
barked and made a noife ? had a fool or two to
fpit in his mouth ? But they are rather enanwcs of
Sin yivf/r,
my fame than mc, thefe barkers.

[fromiari of trees.] One that is employed in ftripping trees.
Ba'rky. adj. [from iari.] Confiflingof
bark ; containing bark.
2.

Ivy lb enrings ihi barky fingers of the elm.

low Lat.]
I .

Shaiefpeare^

A boat for pleafure.

BA'RLEY. »./.. [derived hy Junius frpm

The barge Ihe fat in, like a bumifli'd throne.

Ba'reness. «./ [from^ar^.]

Burnt on the water.

Sbakefftare.

Plac'd in the gilded barge.
Proud with the burden of fo fwect a charge
With painted oars the youths begin to fwccp

Nakednefs.

.STill we ferve you ;

Neptune's fmooth face.
z.

iValler.

A fea commander's boat.
It was confulted, when I had taken my barge
and gone afliorc, that luy (hip Hiould have fct f.iil
Aalcigb.
and left me.

i. Leannefs.
For their poverty, I know not where they had
their baren'f, they never learned
Sbah'J^tari.

Why

fingle

It is poflible the great duke may bargain for the

So you ferve us
but when you have our rofes.
You barely leave our thorns to prick ourfelves.
And mock us with our bartntfs,
Shakej'feare.

Sent before my time
Into this breathing world, fcarce half made up.
And that fo lamely and unfajhionably.
That dogs bark at mc.
Sbake/p. Richard 111.
do your dogs bark fo > be there bears i'

TcBa'rcain. v.n. [from the noun.] To
make a contraft for the fale or purchafe

a. Poorly ; indigently,

modities with commodities, there money muft-bc
fcnt, or elfe the debts cannot be paid.
Locke.

when he threatens or purfues>

Swift.

6. In law.
Bargain and fale is a contrail or agreement
raadc for manours, lands, &c. Mo the transferring the property of them from the bargainer to the

Nakedly,

for

all

jirbutbnet's Hijiory of John Bull.

Bacon.

Barely in title, not in revenue. Sbak.Rich. II.
He barely nam'd the ftrect, promised the wine.
But his kind wife gave me the very fign. Donne.
Where the balance of trade barely pays for com-

Granville,

To Bark, v. n. [biojican, Saxon.]
1
To make the noife which a dog makfs

am forry for thy misfortune however we
muH make the beft of a bad bargain.

Barcheadedx popularly low he bowM. Drjd, Tables,

*hati and

they

I

Ba'relY. adv. [from bare.]

Ifaat of mc.

becaufe

Howe'er for felling bargains fam'd.
5.

The victor knight had laid his helm afide,

I.

Bacon.

Who to a woman trulls his peace of mind,
Trull< a frail iark with a tempelluous wind.

No maid at court is lefs afham'd,

He, bareheaded, lower than his proud deed's neck,
fiefpdke them thus.
SbakefpeareU Richard II.
Next, before the chariot, went two men bare-

The extsmal adminiilration of his word, is as
welt by reading barely the Scripture, as by explaining the fatnc.
Hooker.
The doke of Lancafter is dead ;

That funk fo low that fncred head of thine. JUiU,

An unexpefted reply, tending to ob-

point.

Uncovered in refpeft.

Without decoration.
Merely ; only ; without any thing more.

Built in th' eclipfe, and rigg'd with curfes dark.

at

Stipulation ; interefted dealing.
There was a difference between courtelies received from their mailer and the duke ; for that
the duke's might have ends of utility and bargain,

lent,

Bar'ehe'aded. adj. [frotn bare aad bead.]

bttdtd.

Bacon on the War with Spain,
It was that fatal and perfidious bark.

Locke.

bargainee.

By treafon's tooth bariptavin and cankcrbit.

neither get bark not.mariner to put to fea.

Where fold he bargains, whlpftitch ?
Drydcn.
As to bargains, few of them fecm to be excel-

Mdijon.
Barefo'oted. adj. Being without (hoes.

4.

than any

A fmall fhip. [from barca, low Lat.]
The duke of Parma mult have fiown, if he
would have come into England; for he could

fcenity.

earth.

3.

bargain,

whereas their mailer's could not.

She mull have a hulband ;
Sbati.
I muft dance barefoot on her wedding-day.
Ambitious love hath fo in me ofiended.
That btrefxt plod I the cold groond upon
Sbalufpmre.
With fainted vow.
Envoys defcribe this holy roan, with bis Alcaydes about him. Handing barefoot, bowing to the

2.

the thing purchafed.
Give mc bjt my price for the other t«ro, and you
(hall even have that into iYx bargain. VEfrange.
He who is at the charge of a tutor at home,
may give his fon a more genteel carriage, ".•itfi

EiFrontery ; aflurance ; audacioufnefs.
Ba'refoot. adj. [from bare and /«»/.]

One of our order.
Shakeff. Rnneo and yuliet.
Ba'refoot. adv. Without fhoes.

Trees laft according to the ftrcii^ih and quantl^
of their fap and juice ; being wen munited by their
^Ariiragainll the injuries of the air.
Bacon's Natural Hijhry,
Ward'ring ia the dark,
Phyficians for the tree have found the hark. Dtyi'

No more can be due to me,
Donne.
Than at the bargain made was meant.
2. The thing bought or fold ; a purciiafe ;

greater learning into the
fchool can do.

The ri>i or covcr-iiig of a tree.

1.

fought alliance, or portion, or reputation, with
fonie dcfire of ilTuei not the faithful nuptial union
Bacon.
of man and wife.

Though only fome profligate wretches own it too

I.

Careu*s Survty of Cornwall*

A contract or agreement concerning BARK. «./ [bard, Dan.]
What is marriage but a very i«rpa;>i f wherein is

iare/acrdlj, yet, perhaps, we fliould hear more, di J
Lci-h.
»ot fear tic people's tongues.

Going to find a barifmi brother out,

again, like the Campellians in the north, and the
London bargers, forOow not to baigne them.

bar-

;

the fale of fomeihing.

Openly ; (hamefully ; without difguife.

gaantm.']

WeWi

[barsen,

a./,

gaigne, Fr.]
1.

Barefa'cedly. adv. [from iare/aceJ.']

Barefa'cedness. »;/. [from barefaced.']

ger of a barge.
Many wafarers make themfelvet glee, by putting the inhabitants in mind of this privilege; who

Meannefs of clothes.

BA'RGAIN.

Stakefji. Midfummtr Night't Drcim.

Shamelefs ; unreferved ; without concealment ; undifguifed.

Ba'rcer. «./. [from barge.] The mao**

like the primitive church for ttibareneji as its purity, itcould legally want all fucbpriviligci. Sourt.

then you will play ^arr^Affi/.

Baregna'wn.

BAR

Poverty.
Weie ic lUipped of its privileges, ihd made as

3.

Your French crowns have bo hair at all, and

footid,

!

BAR

BAR

2.

.

3.

A boat for burden,

"n, hordeum.]
It hath a thick fpike ; the calyx,' bufk, awoj
and flower, ai-e like thofe of wheat or rye, but the
awns arc rough ; the feed is fwciling in the middle*,

moH part, ends in a Iharp point, to
Tho fpecieft
are, i. Common long-eared barley. 2. Winter or
and, for the

which the hulks are clofely united.

fquare barley, by fome called big. 3. Sprat barley,
All thcle forts of barley are
or battledoor harlc).
fuwn in the fpring of the year, in a dry time. In

fome very dry light laud, the barley is fowa early
in

;

.

BAR

BAR

aieafuring the weight of the atmosphere,
and the variations in it, in order chiefly
to determine the changes of the weather.
It differs from the barofcope, which
only fhews that the air is heavier at one
time than another, without Ipecifying
the diiference. The barometer is founded
upon the Torricellian experiment, fo
called from Torriceiii, the inventor of
it, at Florence, in 1643.
It is a glafs
tube filled with mercury, horizontally
fealed at one end ; the other open, and
immerged in a bafin of ftagnant mercury : lb that, as the weight of the atmofphere diminiQies, the mercury in the
tube will dcfcend, and, as it increafes,
the mercury will afcend ; the column
of mercury fufpended in the tube being
always equal to the weight of the in-

men feeing tliat this Hate of nobility wa»

BAH
in

Mirch} but in ftrong clay«y foils

n Ttoti

it

The fiuare iarty, or iig, is
April.
ch'.cfly cultivated in the north of England, and in
is hardier than the other forts.
Scotland :

fovvn

till

md

Sarlty

emollient, moiftening, and eipeflo-

is

tating ; iarlry was chofen by Hippocrates as a
proper food in inflammatory diHempers.
jirbiitbr.ot in Alkmnts.

BA'aLEYBRAKE. n. /.

A kind of rural

play.

By neighbours {irais'd flie went abroad thereby,
At harltjbrakt her fweet fwift feet to try. Sidney.

Baklev broth, n. f. [from iarky aud

A low word fometimcs ufed for

broth.]

ftrong beer.

Can Cidden water,

A drench for furreyn'd jades, their

et.:r!<y

troth,

peco(f\.'Jieir cold blood to fuch valiant htat ?

Sirei.

Barley corn. «. / [from iarley and

A

grain of barley; the begincem.]
ning of our meafure of length; the third
part of an ind».
thorns,

is flowed up.
Whenever by yon harley mow I pafs,
Before my eyes will trip the tidy lafs.

BARM. «'./. [burm, WeJfti

;

Cay.

beopm. Sax.]

Harriu

Yeaft ; the ferment put into drink to
raake it work ; and into bread, to
Jighten and fwell it.

Gravity is another property of air, wheri:by it
column of mercury from twentyfcvcn inches and one half to thirty and one half,
the gravity of the at.Tiofphere varying one -tenth,
which are its utmoil limits ; fo that the exadl
fpccifick gravity of the air can be determined
when the barometer (lands at thirty inches, with a
dcr.ite lioat of the weather,
ylrbiiibnoi on Air.

Are you not he
Miflead night wind'rers, laughing at their harm ?
Sbahej'^eare.

m

Try the force of imagination upon (laying tlie
working of beer, when the barm is put into it.

Barn.»./. [befin. Sax.] A place or houfe
any fort of grain, hay, or

llraw.
In vain the bartii\x'^€t t^eir promisM load
Hor.iarm at. aome, oor reeks arc hcap'd abroad.
Drydai.

fic'i

a ihapc as neither
yi^idi/o"

jr.

B.\'rnaC!,e. n. f. [probably of beajin.
Sax. a child, and aac. Sax. an oak.]
1. A kind of Ibell-fiQi that grow. upon

others from the flebrew llJ, of
the fame import.
Some think it a con-

d-.r ;

timber that lies in tlie fea.

A bird like a goo£e, fabulously fuppofcd

2.

to grow on trees.
;ltis beyond, even an athei.'l's credulity atld impudence, to

iSum that the ficfl m<:n migiit gri;»

upon trees, as the ITary goes about hamadet j oi
might be the lice of fomc vaft prodigious animals,

.

ivhofe fpccies is now eicttn£l.

Bcnttcy,

And from the moil rcfin'd of iainti
As naturaiiy grow mifcreants,
A.bart^acUs turn Soian'.l gecfe
\
th' iHands of the Orcadea.
i

3.

TluJ'ihrai.

An inftrument made commonly of irou
for the ufe of farriers, tohold a horfe by

the Tiofe, to hinder him from ftruggling
when an incifion is made.
Farr. D'Ui.

BARO'METER. n.f. [from /Ja^®-, weight,
and ^sTjoe, meafure ]

A machine fur

places in the lower houfe of parliament.

Derh. Pbyfico-Thecl.

Cotuelll

They that bear

:

I took notice of the make of larn: here : i.jving laid a frame uf wood, they place, at the foui

mice nor vermin can crrep up.

There are al^ barons of the cinquetwo to each of the feven towns^
Haflings, Winchelfea, Rye, Rumney,,
Hithe, Dover, and Sandwich, that have
ports ;

The cloth of (late above, are four barons.
the Romans, lignified a brave warriour,
Ofthecirr^ue ports.
Shakefpeare;
or a biutal man ; and, from the firft of
4. Baron is ufed for the huiband in relation'
tlicfe figniiications. Menage derives bato his wife.
Cozuell.
ron, as a t,;rm of military dignity.
Othprs ioppoie it originally to fignify 5. A Baron of Beef 1% when the two firloin*
are not cut afunder, but joined together,
only a man, in which fenle baron, or
by the end of the backbone.
Di£l,
•varoH, is ftill \ired by the Spaniards
and, to confirm this conjefture, our law Ba'ronage. n.f. [from bann.]
1
The body of barons and peers.
yet ufes barot and/emi/ie, hulband and
His tha, rers of the liberties or England, and of
wife.
Others dedace it from ber, an
the forcft, were hardly, and with difnculty, gained
old Gauli.h word, iignifying ccaimanby his bdnrage at Stilnes, ./?.' D. 1115.
Ug/tt

And their cold Itomachs with crown'd goblits cheer
Drydcv.
Of windy cider, and of Ajrrty beer.

corners, four blocks,

juftice belonging to the exchequer.
3.

,BA'RON. ». y; [The etymology of this
word is very uncertain. Baro, among

Tbcir jovial n'ghts in frolicks and in pUy
They pafs, to drive the tedious hnurs away ;

for laying up

and the
three others are his afliftants, between
the king and his fubjedls, in caufes of

He is very accurate m making haromttrifal ant'
thcrmti-'nctrical i-nflruincnts.

yeafty.

Baron is an ofiicer, as barons of the exchequer to the king : of thefe the principal is called lord chief baron,

Relating to the barometer.

Containing

as the bilhops of the land,

are called lords fpiritual.
z.

Barome'trical. adj. [Ssoai barometer.]

Baccn.

Ba'rmy. aJj. [from barm.]

by tenure,

who, by virtue of baronies annexed to
their bilhopricks, have always had place
in the upper houfe of parliament, and

cauntccpoifes a

That fometimes make the drink bear no harm,

barm ;

were firft by writ, may now juftly alfo
be called barons by prefcription ; for that
they have continued barons, in themfelves and their anceftors, beyond the
memory of man. There are alfo baront

much promoted by baromeexperiments, founded upon that eiTentiaj
property of the air, its gravity or preflurc.
Ai.
the column of mercury in the barometer iscounterpoifed by a column of air of equal weight, fo whatever caufcs make the air heavier or lighter, the
prelTure of it will be thereby incrcafcd or teHened,
and of confequence the mercury will rife or fall.

/

were

thefe

liament; of which kind the king may
create more at his pleafure. It is neverthelefs thought, that there are yet barons
by writ, as well as barons by letter*
patent, and that they may be difcerned
by their titles ; the barons by writ being
thofe that, to the title of lord, have their
own furnames annexed ; whereas the
barons by letters patent are named by
their baronies.
Thefe barons, which-

trical

The place where reaped barley

male ; and

barons by letters patent, or by
creation, whofe pollerity are now thofe
barons that are called lords of the par-

the fca, hath been

Barley

patent of this dignity to them

their heirs

called

The mcafuring the heights of mountains, and
finding the elevation of places above the level of

meafur'd by ten thoufand iarfty corns. Tickill.
[from barley aijd
mow. ».

mow.]

letters

and

cumbent atmofphere.

A long, long journey, choak'd with brakes and
111

but cafual, and depending merely on the
prince's pleafure, obtained of the king

1

tradlion of far homtne, or feer, which
fecms leall probable.]
1 .
A degree of nobility next to a vifcount.
It may be probably thought, tliat ancieiidy, in England, all thofe were wiled

2

.

3.

The dignity of a baron.
The land which gi't's title to a baron.

Ba'roness. «. /. [baronejh,
nijfa,

Lat.]

Ttal.

bar^-

A baron's lady.

Ba'ronet. n.f. \pi baron, and et, diminutive termination.] The lowed degree

rience, it appeared that the parliament
was too much crowded with fuch multitudes, it became a cuftom, that none

of honour that is hereditary: it is below
a baron and above a knight ; and has
the precedency of all other knights, except tlie knights of the garter.
It was
fird founded by king Jaiqes I. A, D.
1611. Conveil. But it appears, by the
following paffage, that the term was ia
ufe before, though in another fenfe.
King Edward Ml. being bearded and eroffed by

Hiouid come but fuch as the king, for
their extraordinary wifdom or qu.ality,
thought good to call by writ ; which
writ ran bac vice tantu/n.
After that.

the clergy, was advifed to direft out his writs to
certain gentlemen of the beft .ibilities, entitling
them therein barons in the next parliament
By
which means he had fo many baront in his par'«
lianKBt, as were able to weigh dowa- the clergy j

b.}'ons,

that had fuch figniories as

we

no.v call court barons : and it is fald,j
that, after the Conqueft, all fuch came
to the parliament, and fat as nobles in
the upper houfe.
But when, by expe-

whicb

tympanum, covered with a fine mem-

which biroiu vtn not afterwirds lords, but iarantti, u fuodry of them do yet rcuin the name.

Ba'rony. n. f.

[tamttnie,

Fr.

beopny,

Sax.] That honour or lordfliip that gives
title to a baron.
Such are not only the
fees of temporal barons, but of bilhops
Coiuell.

alfo.

Ba'roscope. n.f. [Ba.f&- andcrxexi'ii.] An
inHrument to (hew the weight of the atjnofphere.
See Barometer.
could only be changed by the contents j wlierc th'winds are not variable, the alterations of the ia-

A ftrong thick kind ot camelot.

Spinfer on Irtt.
which may be ufed as is needed.
Barret up earth, and low fomc feed in it, and
Bacon.
put it in the bottom of a pond.
BA'RREL-BELr.iED. ;z<j)'. [fiom barrel znd

belly.]

B.^'RREN. aHj. [bape, S.ix. naked
perly applied

fea, on the other; fortified clean

To Barrica'do.

among your cattle.
Unfruitful ; not fertile ;

his country }

It

a Kings,

he confcfiijs it to bebarrea.

Unmeaning

B a'r r

uninventive ; dull.

;

1 .

There be ol them that will make themfelves
laugh, to fct on fomc quantity of barren fpe&^tors
to laugh too.

Sbakeffeare.

Ba'rrenly. aJ'v. [from barren."}

Un-

A particular meafure in liquids.

a,

A

harrel oi wine is thirty-one gallons and
a half; of ale, thirty-two gallons; of

[In dry meafure.]

3.

butter contains one hundred and fix
pounds ; of Sufl'olk butter two hundred
and fifty-fix.
A barret of herrings
fhould corttain thirty-two gallons wine

degrees of value,

Want of invention

;

want of the power

of producing any thing new.
The adventures of UlyClcs arc imitated In the
JP.ncU j th"*U(;h the accidents are not the fame,
which would have argued him of a total barrennefs
Drydtn.
of nvcntion.

The importunity of our advcrfaries hath conpoor a caufc could have feemed either to require
Ho'kir.
or to admit.
fo

[In theology.] Aridity; want of emo-

5.

fum, prevailed with their tenants to

tion or fenUbility.

pay tlic price of fo many harith of corn, as the
market went.
Swift

The gratcfl f.iints fometimes arc fervent, and
fometimcs feci a barrennefs of devotion.
Tayhr.

Any thing hollow ; as, the barrel of a
gun, that part which holds the (hot.
Take the barrel 01 a long gun pcrfe^.y boreJ.

Ba'rren wort. n. f. [epimedium, Lat.]
The name of a plant.

4.

Ba'rr pui.. adjr. [from iar andy}*//.] Full

fet it upright with

the breech upon the groumi
and take a bul'et exaftiy fit for it 4 tlieii, if you
fuck at the mouth of the barrel evir fo geiitiv,
the bullet will come up fo ri.fCibly, that it w i.
hazard rhe ftriking out your teeth.
Digb)

5.

A. birrful fiu(e\

Whoe*er I wio, mvfelf would be his wife. Sbak.
[barricade, Fr.]

Barrica'de. n.f.
1.

your driU;

2.

barrel.

if too weak, it will not carry about t*'

M xon

6. Barrel of tht Ear, is a cavity behind tli

A fortificatio;i, made in halle, of trees,
waggons, or any thing elfe,
keep off an att^ick.
earth,

Any (lop
'I

;

A (lop

S^'ift,

an obdrnftion.
If you value yourfelf as a man of learning, you.
;

are building a mbrt impalTable barrier againil

provement.
4.

'

im-

Watts,

A bar to mark the limits of any place.
Fur juits, and tourneys, and harriers, ihc glories
of them are chiefly in the chariots, wherein the
challengersmakc their entries.
Bacon.
Pris'ners t^ the pillar bound,

At either b.irrter plac'd ; nor, captives made.
Be f.ted, 01 artn'd anew.
boundary ; a limit.
5.

Dryden,

A

But wave whate'er to Cadmus may belong.
And fix, O mu/e, the barrier of thy fong
Pope's Statiui,
At Oedipus.

How Inftin£l varies in the gros'cling Twine,
Compared, half rcas*ni"g elephant
with thine]
'Twixt that and reafon what a nice barrier !
For ever fep'rate, yet ftr ever near.
Pope,

Ba'rrister. a.f. [from^ar.]

A per (on

qualified to plead caules, called an ad-

vocate or licentiate in other countries
and courts. Outer barrifiers are pleaders
without the bar, to didinguiih them
from inner barrifiers ; fuch are the
benchers, or thofe who have been readers, the counfel of the king, queen, and
princes, who are admitted to plead
within the bar.
counfel'or at law.

A

of obftru(flions.

A cylinder ; frequej tly that cylinder
about which any thing is wound.
Your rtr.ng and b>w mult lie accommodated t"

and the revenues thereof,

before a peace.

!

Want of matter ; fcantinefs.
ftrained us longer to dwell than the barrenneft of

rings.
Several colleges, inftead of limiting their rents

through the diverfity of their
Bacon.

fertility or harrennejs.

meafure, holding ufually a thoufand her-

to a certain

poflcflion of the barrier,

3.

Milton.
That cuts n» off from hope.
2. Unfruitful nefs; ftcrility ; infertility.
Within the felf-fame himlct, lands have divers

4.

It i: fome-

times pronounced with the accent oa
the lall fyllable, but it is placed more
properly on the firft.]
A barricade ; an entrenchment.

The queen is guarantee of the Dutch, having

I pray'd for children, and thought barrenneft
Altltcn.
In wedlock a reproach.
No more be mentioned then of violence
Againll ourfelves ; and wilful barrcnnfsf

A barrel of Eflex

•

n.f [barrkre, Fr.

A

of procreation.

3.

'

-

E R.

Safe in the love of heav'n, an ocean flows

fruitfully.

beer, thirty-fix gallons ; and of beervinegar, thirty-four gallons.

I

Around our realm, a harrier from the foes. Pepe,
fortification, or (Irong place, as on
z.
the frontiers of a country.

Ba'rrenness. n.f. [from barren."}
Ba'rrel. //./. [^<jr;7, Welfli.]
1. Want of offspring ; want of the power
I. A round wooden veffel to be flopped
clofe.
It hath been obfcrved by one of the ancients,
that an empty barrel, knocked upon with »he
finger, giveth a diapafon to the found t>( the like
barrel full.
Bacon.
Trembling to approach
The little barrel, which he fears to broach. Dryd.

fecms almoft barricaded from any iatelleflual
Harvey.

approach.

Some fchemes will appear barren of hints and
matter, but prove to be fruitful.
Siuifi.
4.

Clarendon.

The truth of caufes we find fo obliterated, that

Not copious; fcanty.

3.

enemy entered.

tile

Pope.

;

I

fterile.

Tclcmachus is far from exalting the nature of

[from the noun.]

a.

to flop up.
Faft we found, fall Ihut
The difmal gates, and barricado'd ftrong Milton,
He had not time to barricado the dgors ; fo that

Deuteronomy.

water is naught, and the ground barren,

i».

To fortify ; to bar

The lituation of this city is pleafant, but the

A wrangler, and encourager of

'Tis arrant barratry, that bears
Point blank an a^ion *agriinfl our taws. Hudibras.

and the harbour water, or inner
ovcrwii^ a ftrong
Bacon*
rampier and barricade.

fca on one part,

Sbaliefpeare.

ynii, or

pradice in law.

hinder entrance.

There Ih-ill not be male or female barren among
2.

any thing fixed to

The .iccefs was by a neck of land, between the

No fin of mine fucceeding.

[from ^arra/trr.] The
crime of a barrator ; foul

fortification ; a bar ;

ground un-

Thiry hail'd him father to a line of kings.

ings to lodge foldiers.

A

Barrica'do. n.f. [iarricada, Spa.n.]

pro-

Upon my head they plac'd a fruitlcfs crown.
And put a Ifjrren fccptrc in my griju".

lodges for foldiers in a camp.

praftice or

to trees or

;

:

2. It is generally taken among us for build-

Ba'rratry. n.f.

matter, which being till then barricaded up and
imprifoncd in the bowels of t}ie earth, was the
occalloB of vei7 great and frequent calamities.
fVcod^vardm

Without the quality of producing its
kind ; not prolifick applied to animals.

n.f. [larracca. Span.]
Little cabins inade by the Spani/h
1.
filhermen on the fea (hore ; or little

law-fuits.
Will it not refleft as much on thy charafler,
Nic, to turn harraicr in thy old days, a ftirrer-up
of quarrels amongil thy neighbours P
Arbuihuii'i Hijiory of John Bull-

Cay.

To hinder by ftoppage.
A new vulcano continually difchargtng that

2.

fruitful.]

Bti'rrack.

cheat.]

Entangled here, the waggon's Icngthcn'd team.

Having a large belly.

Dauntlcfs at empty noifcs ; lofty-r.cck'd.
Sharp-headed, barrel-eclly'4, broadly b ick'ii. Dryd.

1.

B.i'rrator. n. /. [from harat, old Fr.
from which is (HU retained barateur, a

feet,

And the mi«thtirry barr'icadet the ftrect;

ticm.
I would have their bsef beforehand barretkJ,

Ba'rraCan. n.f. [boiiracan, or barracan,
Fr.]

To Barrica'de. t. a. [barricdder, Fr.]
To Hop up a pa(rage.
1
Now all tile pavement founds with tiainpUn(
.

To Ba'r rel. f. a. [from the noun.] To
put any thing in a band for preferva-

Arbuthnnt.

very fmall.

/>/-•/.

brane.

U there was always a cjim, the equilibrium
riiJcGpe arc

BAR

EAR

B A R

to

bar ; obftruftion.

heiu muft be fucn a barricade, as would greatly

annoy, or ablolutc'y ftop, the currents of the atmofphcce.
Derbam.

Blount. Chambers,
Ba'r ROW. n.f. [bepepe. Sax fuppofed by
Skinner to come from bear.} Any kind
of carriage moved ^jy the hind ; as, a
iand-barroiv, a frame of boards, with
handles .it each end, carried between
two men ; a ivbeJ-barroiv, that which
one man puthcs forward by raifing it
upon one wheel.
Have

;

B A S
Have I

lived

oiFai,

Of mean fpirit

2.

and thrown into the

Thame. ?

No ba^rtn'S^ wh''ei
Shall mark, thy ftockiii^ with a mirv trace.

Ba'rrow. » /. [bipj.

A

Sax.]

S;nce the periectiona are fuch in the party 1
love, as the feelirg of them caitnct come unto any
unnnble heart; Ihall th.it heart, lilted up t(vfuc^
Sidrc-y.
a height, be counted bsfe f
It is bate in his adverfaries thus to dwell upon

Gap
hog:

whence harro'ju greafe, or hog's lard.

Barrow,

whether in the beginning or
end of names of pieces, fignifies a
grove ; from beaj'.pe, which the Saxcns
uled in the fame fenle.
Git en.
Barrow is likewiie ufed in Cornwall for
a hillock, under which, in old times,
bodies have been buried.

Of low llition

furious in their beginnings.

-

To give

Drfder.

4. Bafe-born ; born out of wedlock, and by

For him was I exchang'd and ranfom'd
But with a bafer man of arms by far
Once, in contempt, they would have barttrj mc

confequence of no honourable birth ;

Why baHard

?

bars.

He with two ftriplings (lads more like to run
The country bafe, than to commit fuch flaughter)
Made good the pall'age.
Sbakeffeare,

whjrefore baft ?

When my dimenfions are as well Compact

Then as thou wilt difpofe the reft,

To thoie who, at the market rate.

As honcli madam's ifTue.

Can barter hon vtr roreftate.

tiie field,

ufed with the panicle
a'way before the thing given.

Ba'rter. n.f. [from the verb.] The aft
Or praftice of trafficking by exchange of
commodities ; fomctimes the thing given
in exchange.

From EnjIanJ they may be furniflied with foch
things as the
may want, and, in exchange or
with which they may
abound.
Baccn,
He who corrupteth Englifli with foreign words,
a as wife as ladies that change plate for chin*-;
for which the laudable traffick of old clothes ii
karttr, fend other tbioga

much the fairell barter.
Fdtar.
Ba'rt e r e r. «./. [from barter.'] He that
trafficks by excharge of commodities.
Ba'rtery, It./, [from barter.'] Exchange
of commodities.
It is a received opinijn, that, in moll ancient
ages, there was only harttry or exchange of corn-

Camden' t Remains.

Ba'rt RAM. «./. A plant; the fame with

I

A guinea is puie.gold, if it has nothing but go!i
'6.

Applied to founds
is

;

deep,

more frequently written hajs, though

'i

the back-yard ;

yard.

My lord, in the lafe-cmrt he d.'.b attend.

t.

'viol.]

An

/

Mean - fpirited

kings.

Such is the power of that fwect pallion,
That it all fordid bajcnefs doth expel.
Spenfer,
Your foul's above th& bafenrft of diftruft:
Nothing but love coulj make you founjull. Dryd,

;

CamLrCs Rctt:u!':s.
[ufually written la/sis

When a man's folly muft be fpread open bctbre
the aiigcls, aud all his bafcnefs ript up before thofe
pure fpirits, this will be a-double hell.
South,
2.

We

concerts for the bafe found.

At the fi ft jrin he call every human feature out

fellitory.

Vile nefs of metal.
a.legcd the fraudulent obtaining hjs"patent,.
the bafencfs.oi his metal,, and the prodigious fun)
to be coined.
Swift

ufed in

of his countenance at the lecond, he became the
Ba'rton. n.f. The demefne lands of a
head of a bafe -vioi,
yideifn.
manour ; the manonr-houfe itfelf and Base. it.j. [bat, Fr. I'a/f.Lit.]
foraetimcs the out-houfes.
Blount. I. The bottom
of any thing commonly

Knellet.

Ba'seness. n.f. [(xom ba/e.]
1. Meannefs ; vilencfs ; badnefi.

feemeth, no more than ab-

inftrument which

3.

Baftardy ; illegitimacy of birth.

}

Why brand they us
With bafe? with bajenefs'

;

BASE.

:

atlj.

[has, Fr.

be£h, Ital.

baxo.

ufed for the lower part of a building,
or column.

of things.
plumb is a bafe plumb, and

What if it tempt thee tow'rd the flood, my lord
Or to the dreadful fummit of the cliff.

Span, haffui, low Latin ;
I.

Mean
The

;

vile ; worthlefs

harveft white

/3ao-i?.]
:

the white da;e plumb are no very good pluml>s.

.'

Bart.n.

That beetles o'er his bafe into the fo«
Sbahfji.
Firm Dorick pillars f'und your folid bafe;

Pyreinis was only famous for- counterfeiting
all baje things, as earthen
pitchers, a fculleiy
j

The fair Corinthian cr'wiis the higher fpace. Dryd.
And all below is ftrength, and all abort is grace.

whereupon he was furDamcd RupographusJ*
£ta(bam.

Columns ofpoliHi'd marble, firmly fct

.'

On (oldco ta/ei, arc his ie^t aad feet.

Dryden,-

In ballardy.
Thcli: two Mitylenc brethren, bafely horn, crept
out of a fmall galliot unto the niajefty of great

jeft, hafe-mindcd, falfe-hcjrled, coward, or nidget

«.

Clarendon,

With broken vowT his fame he will not {lain,
With conci-iert bafely boujlit, and wiih inglorious

worthlefs.
as it

Sbakeffeare,

in his pallage demanded it.-

Shakfffeare.

adj.

JPritr.

Bacon^

he king is not himfelf, but bafiy led

gain.

the farm-

To fpeak with yoii.

Base-viol.

men have fufficiently

A lieutenant bafely give it up, as foon as Elfex
'

But fpc thy baje-icrn child, thy babe of /hair.e.
Who, left by thee, upon our parilh came.
Cay.
Base-coort. n.J. [bai cour, Fr.] Lower
court ; not the chief cojrt that leads to

I; figiiifieth,

doubtful whether

By flatterers.

Base-born. aeij. Bom out of wedlock.

Base-mindeo.

am

ably.

bafe.
In pipes, the lower- the note holes be, and the
further from tlie mouth of th»pipe, the more hat,
f 'urd they yield.
Bac'jn

the houfe ;

;

Ba'sely. eidv. [from ba/e.]
^
I. In a bafe manner ; meanly ; difhonour-

Waii
It
grave.

the comparative bajer feems to require
;

To embafe

iron, brafs, and titi be letined to the height.

in it, witliou: any alloy or haftr me*.al.

Dicaj if Pielj

[bajter, Fr.]

lefs

refined metals, which we cann<it baf : as, whether

gold and filver.

He alfo bartered atoay plums, that would havi-

make

valuable by admixture of
meaner metals.
to

to metals, without value.
It
uled in thif fenfe of all metal except

is

it is

rotted in a week, for nuts tliat would lall good fur
his eating a whole year.
Luh.

To Base. -v. a.

Inll hij life with his father ii
and with thc.-n a bafe fon. Camden i Rem.

Applied

5.

.

Sit ift.

If [hey will barter aiuny tncir time, metUlnks
.they fliould at leail have tome eafe in exchange.

Skaiefpeare

This young lord

Prhr.
I fee Tiotning left us, but to truck and ba te>
our goods, like the wild Indians, with each ctlie

modi lies amongil moft nations.

il-

legitimate.

Shahf[>iarc.

Sometimes

He laid; to their ;ip,;ointcd bale they went;
With beating heart th' expcfting lign receive.
And, Itarting all at once, the b.irricr leave. Dryd,
7. The firing that gives a bafe found.
At thy well Iharpen d thumb, from Ihore to rtiore,
The trebles IVjueak for fear, the bafts roar. Dryden,
8. An old ruftick play, written by Skinner
bays, and in fome counties called fri/on

Bacon.

Though poor in fortune, of celeftial race
And he commits the crime who calls him bafe.

any thing in exchange for

fomething elfe.

2.

;

eer, the ftarting-poll.

Is virtuous, is alone of noble kind ;

Cdlier

7q Ba'rter. -v. a.
1.

And round blunt truncheon by his fide,
Hudifrau
£0 great a man at arms defy'd.
6. The place from which racers or tilters
the carrun ; the bottom of the field

He, whofe mind

wUling tu barter with his

neighbour.

Nor ihall it cer be faid that wight.
With gauntlet blue and baft white.

Capie, like itfelf, in ktfc .tnd abj-ft routs.
You, reverend father, and thefe noble lords,
Had not been here.
Hh^ikefpeare.
It Could noteife be, I ihould prove fo baft
To fue and be denied fuch common grace, Rtak.
And 1 will yet be more vile tlian this, and sviK
be bafe in mine o".vn fight.
1 S.im.
Infurreftions of baje people arc commonly mce

A ii.an has not every thing growing upon his
is

The broad part of any body; as, the
bottom of a cone.
5. Stockingsi or perhaps the armour for
the legs, [from bat, Fr.]

4.

Sp^rjer on Ireland.

As it they fcorn'd to trade and barter,
By giving or by taking quirter.
Hudibrai.

.

Phalaftus was all in white, having his bafes and
Sidney,
cap I'ifon embroidered.

;

If th.at rehel inn

to pur-

fct

']"hat part of any ornament which hangs
down, aii houfings.

3.

m

chafmg with money.

and theicfore

on great bajes, made the lefs by
Bacon,
Wercury was patron of flocks, and the ancients
Broome,
placed a ram at the'irf/eof his images.
fi.itues

the r advnnceir.cMt.

If the l.vids aud chief
-u dr^enciuce, what
Ihall be hoped of the pealantd ai.a iafrr p.-oile ?

from harat, craft, fraud.]
To trafhck by exchanging one commo-

ibil,

Men of weak abilities in great place, are like
little

yjtierlur-j.

of mean acct^nut ; without dignity of rank ; without hnnou-.

traffick ;

dity for another, in oppolition

The pedellal of a ftatue.

z\

"

the e^celTcs r,f a paffivtn.

3.

To BA'RTER. 'u. n. [iara/ter, Fr. to trick
in

difingenuons ;- illi-

;

beral ; ungenerous ; low ; without dignity of fentiment : of perfons.

Siahjfeare.

;

B A S

B A S

to be carried in > bafkct, like a

iarrwi of butcher's

t

;

4.

baftardy ?

Shakeffeart,.

Deepnefs of found.
l"l-.e- juft and
meafured proportion of the air
peiculTed toward the bafinfi or trcblenefs of tones,
is one of the grcatell fccrets in the contemplation

of founds.

Bacon,

To BASH. v.n. [probably from i/7/f.] To
be a/hamed ; to be confounded with)
Ihame;
His counten.ince was bold, and bafhed not
For Guyon's looks, but fcorni'ul eye glance at him

Aoi

Sfenfer,.

Basha'w..

;

!

;

.

Thefe bafilicks were
palaces of princes,
and afterwards converted into courts of
whence
juflice, and laftly into churches

leries over

BashaV. n.f. [fometiiries written bajfa.'\

A title of honour and command among
the general of an army.
The Turka made an expedition
ol"

Bacm,

[This word, with all
ihofc of the fame race, are of uncertain
etymology. Skinner imagines them derived from baft, or mean ; Minjhcw,
from 'virbae/en, Dut. to ftrike with altonifhment j Junius, from gx<Ti;, which

he

adj.

finds in

nificent

Hefychius to fignify Jhame.

An oint^incy.

I made incifion into the cavity, and put a
IVijman.
pledget of lajilkcn over it.

Ba'silisk. n.f [bafilifcus, Lat. of ^amXis-n©-, of ^»o-tXeu{, a king.]
A kind of ferpent, called alfo a cockatrice, which is faid to drive away all
others by his hifling, and to kill by

and capital.
Obferving an Englifli Jnfcription upon the hajti,
Add'ijor,
we read it over feveral times.
raifed.
3. That on which any thing is
Such feems thy gentle height, made only proul
To be the baf.i of that pompous load.
Than which a nobler weight no mounuin bears.
Penham*

How many times {hall Cjefar bleed in fport^
That now on Pompey's bafii lies along
No worthier than the duft ?

vancing his head, and fome white marks or coroBrnvi's yulg.Err.
nary fpots upon the crown.

SiJtitj.

Jefty, as if lie feared the eyes ot rtian.

Hence, iajhfil cunning

And prompt me, plain and holy inrlccencc. Shah
Our author, anxious for his fame to-nighc,

any thing.
Build me thy fortune upon the bafii of valour.

^ddifon.

Lico cautiou/ly obfcute.

Ti-

moroufly; raodeftly.
Ba'shfulness. »./. [from bafiful.']
1 . Modelly, as ftiewn in outward appear-

Let one attend him with a filver bafin.
Full of rofe-water, and beftrew'd with flowers.
Sbaktffciire.

Wo have

fjr infufions,

vctlcis and ta^»s.

where the
Bacon.

We behold a piece of filver in a baJin, when
water Is put upon it, which we could not difcovcr
before, as under the verge thereof.
Breton s Vulgar £rreuri,

A fmall pon^

2.

much of this foolifli t^Jh/uhef!, and whoaflc every

of t'le walk you fee this hollow bujin,
with iis fcvcr.i! littje plantations lying conveniently

On one

Drydcn.

Ba'sil. n.f. [ocymum, Lat] The name of
3.

fi Jc

under the eye <.f t'.ie beholder.
part of the fea inclofed

A

SfcSiitir.

in rocks,

The jutting land two ample bays divides ;
The fpacioiis bijins arching rocks inclofe,

To Basil.
4.

Jf this rotation does the leas aRtiS,

;

„

Basi'lick. »./

\Jia/tlique, ¥t. ^xaiXixr,."]

A large hall, having two ranges of pillars,

and two

illes

or wings, with gal-

Ba'sket. n.f. [bafged, V/elfh ; bafcauda,
Lat. Barbara depiSlis \veait bafcauda

A

veffel made of
Brilannis. Martial.]
twigs, raihes, or fplinters, or fome other

(lender bodies interwoven.
Here is a bajktt; he may creep in, and throw foul
Slahif.
linen upon him, as if g)ii:g to bucTcirig.

Thus while I fung, my forrows I'decciv'd,

And bending ofiers into t/rjicis weavM.

Drydcn.

contain the whole hand, and defend it

The rapid motion rather would ejeft
The ftotes, the Ihw cap'acioiis csves corttain.
To Ba'si l. v. a. To grind the edge of a
And from its ample^a/ji call tlie main. _S/di*«orc
to6l to an angle.
A dock for repairing and building (hips.
5.
hajil
as
fuch
a
chiU'eli.
arc
not
ground
to
Thefe
the joiners chiftels, on one of the fides, but are 6. In anatomy, a round cavity fituated befo that the
lafUid away on both the flat fides
tween the anterior ventricles of the brain.
edge lies between both the fides in the middle of
which
7. A concave piece of metal, by
flfoxon.
the too!.
glafs-grinders form their convex glafTes.
Basi'lica. »./. [^as-iXiKiS.] The middle
8. A round ilicU or cafe of iron pLiced
vein of the arm, fo called by '.yay of
over a furnace, in which hatters mould
pre-eminence. It is likewil'e attributed
the matter of a hat into form.
'
to many medicines for the fame reafon.
Bafns of a Balance, the fame with
9.
^incy.
the fcalos ; one to hold the weight, the
See
Basi'lical. 7 A^'. [from bafilica.
other the thing to be weighed.
Basi'lick. J Basilica.] Belonging to
Ba'sis. n.f. [>:njis, Lat.]
the baJiHck vein.
'^ a
I. The foundation of any thing, as
'flu:r8«neurifins, following always upon bleeding
the bajitick vein, mull be aneurifms of the humeral
Sharp.
artery.

DryJn.
t^nlock'd in covers, let her freely run
To range thyc')urts,ar.d btjfi before thefim. 7kki!.'.
Some in the fields of purcft aether-piay,
Pi/rtm
And iajt and whiten in the blare of d^y.

A fure defence from cv'ry ilorm that blows. Pt,bt. Ba'sket-hilt. «. / [from bafict and
Any hollow place capacious of liquids.
hilt.']
A hilt of a weapon fo made as to

'Xgn ba/eii.

'

That bath'd within, or bafi' d upon his fide.

Poor Peg was forced to go hawking and peddling ; now and then carrying a bajket of fifli^to
jirhuthmt.
the market.

with a narrow entrance.

Ba'si L. n.f. Tlie angle to which the edge
See
is ground away.
. of a joiner's tool

Ba'sil. «./ The ikin of a flieep tanned.
This is, 1 believe, more properly wnx.-

little vrclls

waters take the virtue quicker, and. better, than in

Sidniy,

a plant.

About him, and above, and round the wood.

To tuneful fongs their narrow throats apply'd.

Z. Vitious or ruftick Ihame.
For fear had bequeathed his room to his kiaf'Hiin'teflfulnefi, to teach him good manners.

who have not altogether fo

'Tls all thy buCncfs, bufinefs hew to fliun,

or other ufes.

Such looks, fuch Itjhfutrejs, might well adorn

one's opinion.

And ftretch'd out all the chimney's length,
M'Jtin.
Ba(k% at the fire his iiairy ftrength.
He -was bajking himfelf in the gleam of the fun.
VEJIrange,

The birds that haunt the borders of his flood.

Sidnr/.

Dryden.

ufed almoft always of animals.

ing to etymology.]
A fraall veffel to hold water for walhing,

I'hiloclea a little

The cheelcs of youths that are more nobly b:>rn.

'\

Drydcm.
To bafi. thy naked body in the fun.
It is often written bafon, but not accord- To Bask. v. ». To lie in the warmth.

1

mufed how to cut the thread
even, with eyes, cheeks, and lips, whereof each
fang their part, to make up the harmony of bajh-

Confederacies in vice, or lesgucs of pleafure ;
Add'ijm.
Ours has fevered virtue for its bafis.

To Bask. o-. a. \bachren, Dut. Skinner.
To warm by laying out in the heat:

motions than any
We
you have, and to make them (Ironger and more
violent than yours are ; exceeding your greateft
£a:im.
cannons and hifilifis.
Ba'si N. n.f. [bajin, Fr. bacile, bacino, Ital.

ance.

fuhiji.

:

praftifc to make iVifter

And tajh/ul in his lirlt attempt to write,

Ba'shfolly. adij. [from bajb/u!.]

Shjhffeare,

The friendfli'yjs of the world are oft

I

A fpecies of cannon or ordnance.

,

Shaieffeare.

The ground-work or firft principle of

5.

Make jne not fighted like the bajtli/k ;
I've look'd on thoufands who have fped the better
Sbakcjfeare.
Ey my regard, but kill'd none fo.
The bojUiJk was a ferpent not above three palms
long, and differenced from other ferpeiits by ad-

z. Slieepifh ; vitiouHy modeft.
He looked with an almoft to/b/til kiiti of mo-

The pedeftal.

if.

looking.

I never tempted her with word too large ;
But, as a brotlicr to his fiftcr, (hnv'd
Shait/fearc,
Bajhfiil fince.i'r.y, nnd comely love.

•

[3•«'^^^xtr•]

ment, called alfo tetrapharmacon.

Mo3ell; fhamefaced.

are others

of a column, wliich are the bafii, Jkaft,

generally taken for a magchurch, as the hafuick of St.

Basi'licon. n.f.

probable.]

There

Drydnu

The loweft of the three principal parti

t.

is

Peter at Rome.

The conjefture of Minjhmi fcems moft
r.

The bafii broad below, and top advanc'd in air .

;

a bafilick

into Perfia
the mountains, the

bapunu confolted which way they fljould get in.

Ba'shful.

In altar wife a flattly pile they retr

them.

made for the

firft

die Turks ; the viceroy of a province ;

«nd> becaufe of the ftraits

B A S

B A S

B A S

column or a building.
It

m jft follow, that I'aradif-, being ralfed to

have the compafs of the whole
Raleigh.
earth for a iafn and foundation.
Afcend my chariot, guide the rapid wheels
this height, muft

That fli.ikc heav'n'6 bS^i.

Mihm.

from being wounded.
His puili'aiit fword unto bis fide.
Near his undaunted heart, was ty'd :

With hajkti-hih, that would hold brotli.
Uud'.hras.
And feive for fight and diniier both.
Their beef they often in their murrions ftew'd.

And in their bafict-h'ilts their bcv'ragc Irew'd. King,
Ba'sket-wom AN. n.f. from bnjkct and
u?o»;««.] A woman that plies at markets
with a bafket, ready to carry home any
thing that is bought.

Bass.

«. y".

[fuppofl-d

by

jiniiit to

be

derived, like bnjict, from Pome Britifli
word Tignifying a t^ijb i but perh.ips
more properly written bofs, from the
mat ufed in churches.
French i5o^-.]
Having woollen yarn, ifi/s mac, or fuch like,
Morlm/rs Hujhtindry.
to bind them withal.
To Bass. v. a. To found in a deep tone.

A

The thunder,
Tl^deep and dreadful organ-pipe, pionounc;d
Tlwname of Profpcr it did ia/i my trefpafs, Sbai,
;

Bass.

]

:;

.

BAT

B A S

raifed work, Fr.] Sculpture, the figures

of wnich

firil,

the

manner of a baftard ;

almoft w-ith the full relief; in the fecond, they ftand out no more than one
half; and in the third much lefs, as in

-

Ba'ssa. Scc.Bashaw.
Ba'sset. n. /. [baffet. Fr.]
cards, invented ^t Venice.

\n./. \baJfon, Fr.] A mufical
iPASSo'oN. J inftrumentof the wind kind,
blown with a reed, and furniihed with
eleven holes, which are flopped like
other large flutes ; its diameter at bot-

Basso' K".

lawful ftate of birth, which dilables the
baftard, botJi according to the laws of

Once flie flandered me with hnficrjy j
In refpeil cf the

rals,
1.

Sets the fpirits all a-working.

2.

Staktjf.

A kind of fweet wine.
Score a pint oi bafijrd.^
Then ycui brown ^tf/?«ri/ is your only drink. Sbak.

Ba'stard. adj. [from the noun.]
Begotten out of wedlock ; illegitimate.

1 .

Peace is a very apoplexy, le:hargy, iiifenfible, a
getter uf more hajiard children than war *9 a dcftroyer of men.
Xbakrf-iarc.

Spurious ; not genuine ; fuppofuitious

2.

adulterate.
In this fenfe, any
thing which bears fome relation or refemblance to another, is called fpurious
falfe ;

or baflard.
You may partly hope that y-^ur father got you
not, that you are not the Jew's daughter.
That
were a kind of hajiard hope indeed.

Hbakrjptart,

Men who, un-jlT live dif^uife of publick jjood,
purlue their own defigns of power, and luch taj}jrd
honours as attend them.
ItmJ'U.

Ba'stard Cednr Tree.

{caWsii guaxuma

in the Weft Indies.]
I'o

Ba'stmid. -v. n. [from the noun.] To
conviiS of being a baftard j to ttigmatize w.th ballarUy.
Slie lived to Icr her brother

beheaded, and her
two fios depjfed from the crown, kaHardtd in
their blood, and cruelly murdered.
Bafa^u

To Ba'staroize. f. a. [fron bafiard.'i
1

2.

To convidt of being a baflard,
'^
To beget a baftard.
Vol. 1.

only in the fummer evenings, when the
weather is fine.
Calmet.

When owls do cry,
On the bat'% back I do fly.

Could the fair forms of good and truth difeern
5
Ban they became who eagles were before ;

And this they got by their delire to learn. Dames,
Some animals are placed in the middle betwixt
two kinds,
and beafts.

upon perches, trees, or hedges.

To

the flames, are caught either with nets,
or otherwile.
You would lift the moon out of her fphere, if

The fat of roafted mutton falling on the birds,

4.

and

flie

would continue in it five weeks without chang-

ing.— We ihould fo, and then go a bat-f(i-.ulin^.

Svjifr,

To few nightly, [ba^er, Fr. to Hitch.]

Bastina'de.)
r ri a
J
c T
Bastina'do.!"-^ [i¥"»"^>Fr.]
1. The aft of beating with a cudgel
the
;

Sbakefpetjr;,

Bodies lighted at night by fire, muft fiave a
brighter luftre than by day j as facking of citie?,

bal-fnu/hg.

Baiable ground leems to be the ground heretowhether it belonged to England
or Scotland, lying between both kingdoms. Ciwc//.

But this courtefy was worfc than a bafi]r.ado to
Zelmanc ; fo with rageful eyes (he bade him deSidney.

And all thofc harfli and rugged founds
Of bafr.nadoSy cuts, and wounds.
Hudibrat.
2. It is foraeiimes taken for a Turkifti
punilhment, of beating an pflender on
the foles of his feet.

fore in qucftion,

Batch, n.f. [from hake.']
1. The quantity of bread baked at a time.
The joiner puts the boards into ovons after the
batch is drawn, or lays them in a w.irm ftabli-.
Mortimer s Hufi^andry,
2.

To Basti n a'de. 1 -v. a. [from the noun ;
Tc Bastina'do. 3 hajionner, Fr.] To
beat ; to treat with the bajlinado.
Nick feized the longer end of the cudgel,, and
with it began to bjft'mado old Lewis, who had

Pracham,

Ba'table. adj. [froip bate.l Difputable.

blow given with a cudgel.

fend himfelf.

They

light torches or ftraw, and then beat the
bulhes ; upon which the birds, flying to

upon it.
time

Licke.

A particular manner of bird-catching in
the night-time, while they are at rooft

think the meat wants what I have, a
bafi'wg.
SbahJ'feun.
moiftcn meat on the fpit by falling
3.

fo fare

which have foraethiiig of birda

Bat-Fowlino. n.f. [from ^a/ and/o-W.

Sir, 1

them, and

as bats,

Where fwallows in the winter feafon keep.
And how the drowfy bat and dormoufc flcep. Gay,

To drip butter, 01' any thing elfe, upon

to baftc

Sbaiej!>:art,

But then grew reafon dark j that fair liar no
mon:

Svi'ift.

butt-r.

It never growi. tsme, feeds

upon
and fatty fubftances, fuch
as candles, oil, and checi'e ; and appears

meat as it turns upon the fpit.

will fcrve

}lahcici!l.

the etymology un-

\fuefpertilio,

infefls,

flies,

To beat with a ftick.

While a little gentle jerking

Any thing fpurious or falfe.
Of no allowance to your buftm's truth.

them.

may be deduced.]

For one that 's iajlcd to feel pain ;
Becaufe the pangs his bones endure
Contribute nothing to the cure.
Hudibras.
Bajhngi heavy, dry, obtufe,
Only dulnefs can produce ;

Him to the Lydian king Lycimnia bare,
AntJ fcnt her boaf^d bayard ro the war. Dryt^en,
Words
But rooted in your tongue ; kaftdrJs and fyllablcs

Skah-fp.
the wife's

Quoth (he, I grant it is in vain

.

;

-^'^i^-

No more of hajlarjy in heirs of crowns. I'ofe.
To Baste, -v. a. participle paiT. bajied, or
Batata, in the
bafien. \_bajtfinner , Fr.
Armorick dialeft, fignifies to ftrike with
a ilick ; from which perhaps bajion, a
ftick, and all its derivatives, or collate-

7're'voux.

Ba'ssock. »./. The fame with ^fl/>.
BA'STARD. ». /. [baJlartU. Welfh, of
low birth ; bajlarde, Fr.]
Bajlard, according to the civil and
1
canon law, is a perlbn born of a woman
out of wedlock, or not married fo that,
according to order of law, his father is
not known.
'^yl'ffc.

evil conlequents,

Sjxrfer.

known.] An animal having the body of
a moufe and the wings of a bird ; not
with feathers, but with a fort of Ikin
which is extended. It lays no eggs, but
brings forth its young ilive, andfuckles

adultery is worfe, as bringing tajlardy into a family.
Taylor.

bafs ill concerts of hautboys, l^c.

3.

broken with bats.

Bat. n.f.

But whether 1 be true begot, or no.

tom is nine inches, and it ferves for the

2.

;

Ba'stardy. n.f. {iTambafiard.] An un-

That ftiU I lay upon my mother's head.

See Bass-

'^

They were fried in arm chairs, and their bones

A game at

[Ital.]

a

On which he leaned, as one far in eld.

Jirydcn,

relief.

fignified

A handfome b.it he held.
Disnnc.

inheritance.

Gamefters would no more blafpheme; and lady
Dabchcek's beffd bank would be broke.
Dtmis.

probably

Into the body, and bajiardly they grow.

one of d'C

Mufej, playing on a t.ifs-viol,

BJSSO RELIEyO.

or club.

God and man, from fucceeding to an

Bass-viol. See Ease Viol.
On the fwe«p of the arch lies

It

'Let the mind's thoughts but be tranfplanted fo

coins.

^

fpurioufly.

Good feed degenerates, and oft obeys
The foil's difeafe, and into cockle (Irays

others.

weapon that did executirn by its weight,
in oppofition to a fharp edge ; whence
tvhirlbat and brickbat.}
A heavy ftick

Shakejpeari.

Ba'stardlv. ad-v. [from bajlard.'] In the

appear

figures

frc-.it

and

my bttf-

firmament twinkled on

tardixing.

do not iland out from the

groand in their full proportion. Ftlihien
dilHnguifties three kinds of bafs-relief
in the

ftar in the

licft

deep.

Bass relief. »./ [from i^s, and relief,

BAT

I lliould have been what I am, .had the maiden-

Bass. aJj. [See Base.] In muilck, grave;

Any quantity of any thing made at
once, fo as to have the fame qualities.
lixccpt he were cf the fa.-nc meal .md latch,

Ben Jcrjotj,

Ba'tchblor. See Bachelor.
Bate, n.f. [perhaps contrafted from de~

flunk into a corner, waiting the event of a fquabble.

Strife ; contention ; ab, a

bate.]

maie

yirbutbnot.

Fr.]
A huge
mafj of earth, ufually faced with fods,
fometimes with brick, rarely with ftonc,
ftanding out from a rampart, of which
it is a principal part, and was anciently
called a bulwark.
Harris,
Toward ; but bow ay ther.' 's the queftinn
Fierce the ad'ault, unarm'd the bajikn.
Prior.

Ba'stion, n.f.

[bajtion,

bate.

To Bats,
I

.

-v. a.

[contrasted from abate.]

To leiTen any thing

;

to retrench.

Shall 1 bend lyw, and in a bondman's key,
V/ith bated breath, and whifp'iing hunibleiiofs.

Say this

i"

Shakcjp. Merchant of p'tnice,

tjor, envious at the fight, will

1

forbtar

My plenteous bowl, nor halt my plenteous cheer.

.'

;

Deydcn*

Bat. n.f. [bar. Sax. This word feems jo
have given rife to a great number of
words in many languages
as, battrc,

?.

Fr. to beat ; baton, batilf, beat, batty.

3.

To fink the price,
Whf

n the landholder's rent falls, he muft ritliet
bate the labourer's wages, or not employ, or not

pay him.

;

Locke.

To leflen a demand.

X

Sate

;

Salt me feme, and I will pay you fome, and, as
Sbakfff, Htnrj IV.

things liquid ; and three pecks and
three pints as a meafure for things dry.
Calmrt.

Batt but ciie lift, and 'lis what I would fay.
Dryden'i Sptmjb Friar.

To Bate. v. n.
1 . To grow lefs.
Baidolph, am not I fallen away vilely fince thit
Do I not iatet

loofc guwn.

the feed of an homer (hall yield an ephah>
IJaicb, T. 10.

do I not dwindle '

Bate feems to have been once tTie preterite of bite, as Shakefpcare ufes biting

(i:k, near unto death, for three days.

fell

I'll

baibe your wounds in tears tor my oft'ence.

He might on knees confefs his guil.y part. SiJniy.
Ba'tement. n./. [from abatement.] Diminution a term only ufed among artificers.

To, abate, is to wa(te a piece of ftuflT; inftead
of afking how much was cut off, carpenters a(k
what batcment that piece of iVufFhad.

Phoenician Dido (lood,
Frefh from her wound, her bofom baih'd in blood.
Dryden,
Mars could in mutual blood the centaurs bathe.
And Jove himfelf give way to Cinthia's wrath.

Dryden.

To Bathe, f. a. To be in the water, or
in any refemblance of a bath.

Moxon't Mtchan'ual Extrcifes.

Artificial

baths

.

a.

or abate.

prepofition.]

I would (boner hear on any fubjc£t.
Rc-jve.
Bating that only one, his love, than you.
1( we confiJer children, we have little reafon to
think that they bring many iieas with them.
bating, perhaps, fome faint idsas of hunger and

I

is

a

miftake for balneum maris, a fea or water
bath.
A fand heat is fometimes called
^incy.
balneum Jiccum, or dnereum.

We fee that the water of things diftilled in
which they call the hath, diftcreth not
much from the water of things dillJled by (ire.
Sanu'l Natural Hjftery.
water,

;

to feed plen-

We drove afield,
Mihottt

To fertilize.

z.

The meadows hen*, with ^tftr'mr^ oote enricb'd.
Give fpirit to the grafs ; three cubits high
The jointed herbage ihoots.

Philifs.

in indulgence.
Follow your fun^ion, go and batten on cold bits.
Shakejpearem

Burnilh'd and battening on their food, to Ih-iw
Dryden,
The diligence of careful herds below.
The lazy glutton I'afe at home v.'iil keep.
Indulge his (loth, and batten on his deep. Dryden,
As at full length the pampered monarch lay,
Battening in eafe, and numbering life away. Gattb,
Tway mice, full blythe and amicable.
Batten belide erle Robert's X.Mt,
Prior,
While paddling ducks the iHnding lake delire^
Or bati'ning bogs roll in tl>e (inking mire.
Gays Pajlorah,

Ba'tten. n. /.

Bato'on.

her

pretty

chopc hands

A b.ittin is a fcantling of wood, two, three, or
foM inches broad, feldom above one thick, aud the

had

To BA'TTER. -v. a. [hattre, to beat, Fr.]
1 .

merly fpelt bajlon.]

A rtafF or club.
We

came clofe to the (hore, and offered to land ;
but (Iraightways we faw divers of the people witli
bojiins in their hand>, as it were, forbidding us to
Bacon s New Ataiatitii.
land.
That does not make a man the worfe.
Although bis (houldcrs with batoem
Be ciaw'd and cudgell'd to fome tunc. Hudibtau

A truncheon or marfhal's ibfF; a badge
of military honour.
Ba'ttailous. aiij. [from battaille, Fr.]
Having the appearance of a battle ;
warlike ; with a military appearance.

To beat ; to beat down ; to fhatter :
frequently ufed of walls thrown down by
artillery, or of the violence of engines
of war.

To appoint battering rams againil the gates, to
cad a nrount] and to build a fort.
Exckiel,
Thefe haughty words of hers
Have battered me like roaring cannon fTjot,
And made me almoll yield upon my kuees. Sbak,
Britannia there, the fort in vain

2.

He Darted up, and did hiralelf prepare
In fun-bright arms and battailous array. Fairfax.

Had batter''d been with g ilden rain:
Thunder itfelf had faiPd to pafs.

10

IValler.

Be then the naval (lores the nation's care,
2.

New (hips to build, and balter'd to repair. Drydtn,
To wear with beating.
Crowds tn the cadle mounted up the (treet,
Bait'ring the pavement with their courfen feet.

Dryden.

The French came forerooft, battailous and bold.
Fairfax.

At:xon,

length unlimited.

Sbakrffiare.

n.f. [bafion, ot batOB, Ft. for-

A word ufed only by

workmen.

remember the kilTmg of her be)let, and the

cow"s dugs thit
milked.

!

Balneum Maria

Locke.

thirlh

A fquare
Ba'ti.et. «. / [from bat.]
piece of wood, with a handle, ufed in
beating linen when tiken out of the
buck.

veffel

fire.

Except.

advocate.

The birth of each day's lili:, fore labour's batb,
Sbahfpeare''i Macbeth.
Balm of hurt minds.

the naked

To fatten, or make fat
teoufly.

parti-

Whom

1 .

In chymiftry, it generally fignifies a
of water, in which another is
placed that requires a fofter heat than

etymology.]
I .

ufed as a

The king, your brother, could not choofe an

Sbaie/f. Merry Wives of Ifixilfor.
Sleep,

3.

This word, though a

ciple in itfelf, feems often

than half (lewed in grcafe like a Dutch dilh, to be

thrown into the Thames

Shakt

[a word of doubtful

Ba'tinc, ot A^a'ti kg. frep. [^(rom bate, To Ba'tten. 'V. n. To grow fat ; to live

A ftate in which great outward heat is
applied to the body, for the mitigation
of pain, or any other purpofe.
In the height of this bath, when I was more

battalion trebles that account.

ToBa'tten. "v, a,

Batt'ning our flocks with the frefh dews of night.

In thrilling regions of thick-ribbed ice. Sbakeff.
Tiie gallants dancing by the river (ide.
They ijrte in fummer, and in winter Aide, lyaller.
But ba:bc, and, in imperial robes array'd.
Pay due devotions.
Pu/e'j Odyjpy.

been in great efteem with the ancients,

plunged themfelves, have had fome (hare in thcii
Aild'iJ'jn'i Spcciator.
cure ?

.Six or leven rhoufand is their utmoll power.

—Why, our

The delighted fpirit

have

efpecially in complaints to be relieved
by revulfion, as inveterate headaches,
by opening the pores of the feet, and
But the moalfo in cutaneous cafes.
dern prafticc has greateft recourfe to
the natural baths; moil of which abound
with a mineral fulphur, as appears from
their turning filver and copper blackifh.
The cold baths are the moll convenient
fprings, or refervatories, of cold water
to wafh in, which the ancients had in
great efteem ; and the prcfent age can
produce abundance of noble cures per^incy.
formed by them.
Why may not the cold hath, into whicn thej

Pofie4

An army. This fenfe is not now in uie.

2.

To batbe in (icry f!oods, or to relide

A bath is either hot or cold, either of
nature.

In heaps on heaps : one fate o'eI^^helms them all.

Except they meant to bathe in reeking wounds,
Sbaktfpeare^s Macbeth.
I cannot tell.

Bath. it./, [ba?, Saxon.]

Taller^

1 he pierc'd battailous difunited fall

:

or

Thcrfites and Pandarus.

Drydeit.

To wafh any thing.

3.

Which foon as it did hattful queftion frame,

art

Whtn forrows come, they come not lingle fpies.
Bur in battalions,
Sbakefpeare^s Hamlet*
In thh batta/ion there were two o(]icers, called

H^iJ'eman^s Surgery.

tentious.

I.

tain, but generally from five to eight
hundred men. Some regiments confift
of one battalion, and others are divided
into two, three, or more.

South,

while by clyders and lenitive bolufes.

Ba't BFU L. <KJr. [from bate and/«//.] Con-

a

body of forces. It is now confined to
the infantry, and the number is uncer-

plication of warm liquors.
Bathe them, and keep their bodies foluble the

S^tnftr.

He knew her haunt, and haunted in the fame,
And taught his (lieep her (heep in food to thwart

A divifion of an army; a troop;

1.

To fupple or foften by the outward ap-

2.

Clarendon,

The m?.in body of an army in array,

2.

diilinguifhed from the wings.

Others on filvcr lakes and rivers balh'J
Their downy bread.
Milton t ParatKk Lojl.
Chancing to bathe himfelf in the tivcr Cydnui,
through the exceirive coldiiefa of thefe waters, he

:
with e^ before the thing.
Abate thy fpeed, and I will halt of mine. DryH.

faulcbion ; anleft, in the following lines,
it may rather be deduced from beat.
Vet there the fteel (laid not, but inly hale
Deep in his fle(h, and open'd wide a red flood gate.

Next morning the king put his army 'lato latlalia.

Batta'i-ion. n./. [batailloK, Fr.]

To wafh, as in a bath.

1.

To remit

2.

Batta'lia. n.f. [battaglia, lli[.]
1. The order of battle.

Ten acres of vineyard (hall yield one haii, and

Why my (kin hangs about me like an old lady's To Bathe, v. a. [banian, Saxon.]
Sbahrfptari I Henry IV.

In bailaVous afpeft, aod nearer view
Briftlcd with upright beams innumerable
Millut,
Of rigid fpears and helmets throng'd.

the tenth part of an homer, or ftven
gallons and four pints, as a meafure for

To cut off; to take away-

laft election ?

A fiery region,' ftretch'd

A fort of Hebrew meafure, containing

4.

jDoft dcbcon do, promife you iufinitcly.

4^

BAT

BAT

BAT

If

you have a Clver faucep an

for the kitcb.n
Vitc,

;

;

BAT
•ufp, let

me advife you to batter it well

So they joined battle, and the heathen being difi Maccabees.
comfitcd fled into the plain.

this will

;

ftiew conftant good houfekeeping.

S'wlft^i DlrcBktti to the C6ck>

3.

Applied to f erfons,

to

B A

B A U

wear out with

army.
The king divided his army into thee battles

fervice.

wheveof the vanguard only, with wings, came

The i:ir:i'd veteran ftrumpets here
S-.ullirn.
Pretend at leili- to bring a mndeft ear.
I am a poor old haittnd fellow, and i would
willingly end my days in peace.

The fide of a wa'l, or any timber, th:it bulges
from its bottom or foundation, is faid to i.i/ff.

The main

body, as

diftinft

from the

van and rear.
the avant-guard, himfelf followed
with the battle 3 good diftance behind, and after

Angus led

A

workmen.

to

Baccn.

fight.

3.

ylriuihrari Hiftory ofjihn Bull.

A; the fsme dame, experi.;nc'd in her trade,
By names of toads retaiU each iairci'il jide. Prpi.
word ufed only by
To B a't T E R . -v. n.

4.

'Tis equal to her lady/hip or me

A copper Otho, or a Scotch baubee.
Bramji. Man cfTaJle.

A body of forces, or divifion of an

2.

Hayzuard.
came the arrier.
fay to join battle ; to give battle.

We

To Ba'tti-E.

-v.

n.

Ba'vin. n.f.

[of uncertain derivation.]
flick like thofe bound up in faggots
a piece of wafte wood.
He rambled up and down
With (hallow jefters and ralh bavin wits,

A

Soon kindled, and foon burnt. Sbakefp. Henry IV.
For moulded to the life in clouts
Th' have pick'd from dunghills thereabouts.
He's m-mnted on a hazel bavin,
A crop'd malignant baker gave him. Hiidibrat.

The trunchL-ons make billet, bavin, and coals.

To

[batailhr, Fr.]

join battle ; to contend in fight.

Miirtimcr.
"To

"ris curs by craft and by furprizc to ga'n
*Tis youis to meet in arms, and battle in the plain.
P, h'.
We receive accounts of ladies battling it or. both

W

Baulk.

See Balk.

:

Ba'tter. n.f. [from To iatfrr.]

A mix-

ture of feveral ingredients beaten together with fome liquor ; fo called from

Turkey poulcs frein from th' egg '.. hatur fry'd.
King.

Ba'tterer. 71./. [from iatter.] He that
batters.

I own, he hates an aflion bafc,

[ixora batter, OTbatterie,

The aft of battering.
Strong wars they make, and cruel haticry ben-^,
t'niry
'Gainft fort of reafon, it to overthrow,
Earthly minds, like mud walls, lefili the
1 site.
ftrnngeft hatterUu

^

The inftruments with which a town is
battered, placed in order for aftion ; a
line of cannon.

Where is b'ift place to make our katt'ry next ?—

—I think at the north gate.

Sbahfp. Henry VI,
It plants this reafoning and that argument, this
confequence and that diliin^iion, like fo many intclle^ual ifaiteries, till_ at length it forces a way
and paflage into the obiiinate inclofed truth. Siutl.

:

A dreadful iire the floating batt*rUs make,
O'erturn'the mountain, and the foreft ihake.
Blatkmore.

The frame, or raifed work, upon which
cannons are mounted.

4.

Two parties of fine women, placed in the opone agninft another.

yiddifon.

A weapon ufed an-

ciently, probably the fame with a bill.
Certain tinners, as they were working, found
fpear heads, battle-axes, and fwords of copper,wrap.

A

violent ftriking of any
[In law.]
man. In an af^Lon againil a ftriker,
one may be found guilty of the aflault,
yet acquitted of the battery. There may
therefore be aflkult without battery ; but
battery always implies an aflault.

Chamber].
Why does he fuffcr this rude knave now to
knock him about the fconce with a dirty {hovel,
and w^l not tell him of hi& a^ion and battery f
Sbake/feare.
Sir, quo' the lawyer, not to flatter ye,

Vou have as go*>d ard *air a battery
As heart (jin «lfli, and need not Ihaine
The proudcft man alive to claim.
HuiUkrau
Ba'ttish. ai^. [from ^fl/.] Refembling
a bat.

ped in linen clouts.

Careiv,

Ba'ttledoor. n.f. [fo called from a'oor,
taken for a
Jlriking.']

flat

Gtrrleman Inflruded,

and a flat board, ufed in play
a ball or (huitlecock.

to llrike

term of contempt.
She haunts me in every place.

I was on the
and thither comes
the bauble, and falls me thus about my neck.

fea bank with fome Venetians,

Sbakefpeare'i Othelh.
It is a paltry cap,

A cuftard coffin, a baivble, a filken pie.
If, in

Government of the Tongue.

This (hall be writ to fright the fry away.
Who draw their little baiubles, when they play.

and the like, which are to be
ufed with labour, <hould indeed be procured them.

A lady's watch needs neither figures nor wheels ;
'Tis enough that 'tis loaded with baivblct and feais.

gigs, batcleJoart,

Locke.

to be formed

from whence

from hattk,

as the parts

building is defended
perhaps only corrupted from b'timent, Fr.]
A wall
raifed round the top of a building, with
embrafures, or interllices, to look thro'
to annoy an enemy.
againil

a

aflailants ;

And flx*d his head upon our bartltmentt.
Sbaktff. Macbeth.

Thou Ihalt make a batit-.ment for thy roof, that
thou bring not blood u^ton thy houfe, if any man
filll.

DeuterctlC'tny,

Prior.

Our author then, to pleafe you in your way,
Prefents you now a haivble of a play,
In gingling rhyme.

Granville.

A prince, the moment he is crown'd.
Inherits every virtue round,

As emblems of the fovcreign pow'r.
Like other baivhles of the Tow'r.

She'll n^ver fee his pardon.

Shahjprare.
The race U not to the (wHt, nor the bati.e to

the ftrong.

£ctte/. T

Tri-

a word not
in ufe, except in converfation.
fling; contemptible:

now

A b.itvbling veirel was he captain of.
For (hallow draft and bulk unprized ;
With which fuch (cathful grapple did he maks,
With the moft noble bottom of our fleet.
Shak.
Ba'wcock. n.f. [perhaps from beau, or

Up to the higbcd battlement, from whence

and cock.] A familiar word,
which feems to fignify the fame as fne

The Tiojans threw their darts.

fellonu.

baude,

Through this we pafs
Dentam.
Their liandard, planted on the bttttlement,
Defpiir and d^ath a.-nong the fnldiers f;nt. Dryd.
No, I (han't envy him, whoe'er ho be.
That i>ands upon the baiil.menit of iUte ;
I'd rather be fccore than great.

/Harris,

The weighty mallet deals refounding bbws,
Till the proud batticntetttf her t'wVi inci.jfe. Guy.

Ba'tty. atlf. [from bat.] Belonging to a
Till o'er their brows death, counterfeiting deep,

tout.

I

Sivift.

Ba'wbling. adj. [from ^axf^/f.]

Why, how now, my baiucock ? how doft thou,
chuck ?

Shaktfpi are's Tzvelfib Night.

BAWD. H.f

l.ct the loop'd bavaray the fop embrace,
O. hiidWp cloak be fpat:cr'd o'er with lace. Gay.
Baubeh^ n.f.
word ufed in Scotland,

A

and the northern counties, for a halfpenny.
Tiia' in the drawers of my japan bureau,

To lady Gripeali I the Caiars fliow,

A

[baude, old Fr.]
procurer, or procurefs ; one that introduces

men and women to each other,
promotion of debauchery.

for the

If your wor(hip will take order for the drabs and
the knaves, you need not to fear ic.ebaivds. Shak,

This commodity.
This bawd, this^ broker, this all-changing word.
Hath drawn him from his own determin'd aid,

;

The En?, ifh army, that divided was
Into tw parts, is now coDJ jin'd in one ;
And m^anj 10 give you battle prefently. Shakcfii.
The iatf.'c lone, and they within our power,

Sbakefp,

our ontcft, we do not interchange ufcful

notions, we fliall traffick toys and bavjhles.

Dryden.

Play-things, which arc above their ikill, as tops,

With leaden legs and baity wings doth creep.
BATTLE, n.f. [bataille, Fr.]
Sbakefficare.
an encounter between oppo1. A fight
fitc armies.
We generally fay a battle Ba'varoy. n.f. A kind of cloak or fur-

of many, and a combat of two.

barbarous

A

board, and battle, or

An inftrument with a handle

bat.

To be out late in a baitijh humour.

[Batiiellu/ii, In

Latin, fignified a jewel, or any thing
valuable, but not neceflary. Omnia baubellafua dedit Othoni. Hoveden. Probably from beau, Fr.]
gewgaw ; a
trifling piece of finery ; a thing of more
fliow than ufe ; a trifle. It is in general,
whether applied to perfons or tilings, a

t

Ba'ttlement. n /. [generally fuppofed

Sec, and revere th' artillery of heav'n.

Drawn by the gale, or by the tcmpeft driven

3.

Sivift.

Battle-arra'y. ;»./. [See Battle and
Array.] Array, or order, of battle.

Ba'ttle- AXE. n./.

Fr.]

2.

His virtues battling with his place.

pofite fide boxes, feemed drawn up in battle-array

Ba'ttery. «./.
1.

Add\ji,n.

fides.

being fo much beaten.
One would have all things little, hence has try'd

its

Ba'vvble. n.f.

Sbakefpeare.

Our author calls colouring Una fororis, thtba-.vd
of her (ilier defign ; (he drc(rcs her up, (he paints
her, (he procures for the defign, and makes lovers
for her.
Dryden.

To Bawd, o-. n. [from the nOun.]

To

procure ; to provide gallants with ilrurapcts.
Leuclppe is agent for the kind's lull, and batvds,
at tha fame timej to: the wiiole court.

X i

Mdifon.

And

.

B A

W

B

And in four months > battrr'd hirridan {

It grieved

Now nothing's left, but wither'd, pale, and Oinink,
To iav.-d for ollicrs, and go ihircs with punk.

BAY

AY

fourteen to twenty feet long, and floors
from ten to twelve broad, and ufually
twenty feet long, which is the breadth
BuUi/er's Diff.
of the barri.
If this law hold in Vienna ten years, I'll rent the

me when I faw labours, which hti

coft fo much, tawUd about by common

hawkers.
Swift.

Di£f.
Ba'wrel. »./ A kind of hawk.
Di^.
Ba'wsin. »./. A badger.
Bay. aJj. [iaJius, Lat.]
ObA bay horle is what is inclining to a chcftnut

Swifi.

Ba'wdily. aJv.

Oo-

[from latuifj.]

fceiiely.

^a'wdiness. n./. [(rom iatui/y.']
rcenenefs.

Ba'wbrick. n./. [See Baldrick.]

A

belt.
Frcilj jarlands too the virgins temples crown'J ;

The J

uths gilt fwjrJs wore at ih.ir thighs, with
filvcr baivdricki bound.
Chitf'man'i liiacL

Theic are alfo coloured

are called

that

My lord, you gave good words the other day

Cheating and tawdry go together in the world.

of a bay courfer I rode on. 'Tis yours becaufe
Shaieffeare.
you liked it.
Poor Tom proud of heart to ride on a bay

L'EJiratige,

:

That come to hear a merry baivdy play.
Siaiefftare.
Will be deceiv'd.
Not ore poor iawdy jeft (hall dare appear ;
Soulhcrn,

7a Bawl. -v. «,

To hoot

;

\^halo,

z.

With hounds of Sparta.

n. f.

tav. /s,

And (hakes the ftatues on their pedeftals. Dryden,

This

(hip, for (ifteen hours, fate

like a flag

among hounds at the bay, and was fieged and
fought witli, in turn, by (i/tecn great (hips.

Bacons fVar milh Spain.

from his tov'd home no lucre him can draw ;

The fenate's mad decrees he never faw.
Nor heard at tatvlhg bars corrupted law. Drydcn.

Fair liberty, purfucd and meant a prey
To lawlefs power, here turn'd, and flood at bay.
Deiiham.

Loud menaces were heard, and foul difgrace.

Nor flight was left, nor hopes to force his way

And taiviing infamy, in language bafe.
So on the tuneful Margarita's tongue

The lift'ning nymphs and ravifli'd heroes hung ;
But cits and fops the heav'n-born mufick blame.

And haiil, and hifs, and damn her into fame. Smith.
I have a race of orderly elderly people, who can

tatvl when I am deaf, and tread (oftly when I am
Swift.
only giddy and would (leep.

2.

To cry as a froward child.
A little child was baiuling, and a woman chiding
VEJIrange.
If they were never fufTeted to have what they
cried for, they vrould never, with bawling and
Locke.
fceTiihncfs, contend for maAery.
My hulband look him in, a dirty boy ; it was
fervants
to
attend
the
of
the
him,
the bufinefs
rogue did bawl and make fuch a noife.

it.

jlriylhmt's Hiftory of Jehu Bull.

T» Bawl. v. a. To proclaim as a wier.

j

Embolden'd by defpair, he ftood at bay ;
Refolv'd on death, he dilTipatcs his fears.
And bounds aloft againli the pointed fpcars. Dryd.

Till fenfe was loft in found, and (iience (led the
Drydin'i Fables.
place.

2.

Sbvkeffeare.

If he (hould do fa,

an impoflibility of efcape.
Hudiirat.

Through the thick fliades th' eternal fcribbler

was with Hercules and Cadmus once,

I

When in the wood of Crete they bay'd the boar

ftore

condition of a flag when the hounds were
almoft upon him.]
1. The ftate of any thing furrounded by
enemies, and obliged to face them by

To cry the caufe up heretofore.

To en-

We are at the (lake.

Boileau. Innocence is in the iitmoji dijirefs.
It is taken from ahboi, the barking of
a dog at hand, and thence fignified the

Lat.]

And iawl the biihops out of door.

[from bay, an inclofed place.]
compafs about ; to fhut in.

And tay'd about with many enemies. Sbaktffeare.
To Bay. 1". a. To follow with barking;
to bark at.

\abboi, Fr. fignifies the laft
extremity ; as. Innocence eji aux ahhoins.

Bay.

to cry with great vehemence,

Milton.

Dryden's Fables,

aid.

2.

of water for driving a mill.

Dcii-U'

whether for joy or pain. A word always
ufed in contempt.
They iaiuKot freedom in their fenfetcfs mood,
And ftiU revolt, when truth would fet them free.

She rent the heav'n with loud laments, imploring

Shakefpeare.

A pond head raifed to keep in

-v.

The wakeful dogs did never ceafe to bay. Fairy S^.
The hounds at neary diftance hoarfely bay'd ;
The hunter clofe purfued the vifionary maid ;

!

For now the batter'd veteran ftruiiipets here

or does he continue to lay a tax upon Un i

n [abboyer, Fr.]
To bark as a dog at a thief, or at the
game which he purfues.
And all the while (he (load upon the ground.

1

and fome bays upon the (hore for fomc works,
wherein is required the air and vapour of the fea.
Baccn.
from this calm bay
Hail, facred folitude
Rtfccmmon.
fca.
1 view the world's tempeftuous
Here in a royal bed the waters (leep.
When tir'd at fea, within this iiiythey creep. t)ryd.
Dryden.
Some of you have bay.

Only they.

bauchery.
Has the pope lately fliut up the laiudy-hcujes,

To Bay.

fca,

Sbahffure's Ottel/o.

Pretend at leaft to bring a modcd ear.

Pope.

Shakeff.

We have alfo iome works in the midft of the

Is hufli'd within the hollow mine of earth,

for

lence.
Beneath his reign (hall Eufden wear the lays.

in on all fides, except at

Who put unluckily into this bay.

Pfalms.

an honorary crown or garland, bellowed as a
prize for any kind of vitlory or exceU

A reverend Syracufan merchant.

:

Ba'wdv-house. ». /. A houfe where
traffick is made by wickednefs and de-

Bay. a./. A poetical name

the entrance.

The iaiudy wind, that kifles all it meets,

And will not hear 't.

is ftiut

tree, as

have feen the wicked in great power, and

I

For beautv dappled, or the brighteft bay. Dryden.

water

The

fpreading himfelf like a green bay tree.

BAY. ti.'f. [baye, Dutch.]
I. An opening into the land, where the

'^AVi'DY.adj. [horn banud.'\ Obfcene; ungenerally applied to language.
chafte

Lat.]

were anciently made.

!

trotting horfe over four inch'd bridges.
His colour grey.

[lauriis,

generally thought, which is tranflated
laurel, and of which honorary garlands
is

Farrier's DiSl.

the chcftnut.

jijliffe.

2. Obfcenity ; unchafte language.
Pr'ythee fay on j he *s for a jig, or a tale of
tawdry, or he (lecps.
Staiiff tare's HamUt.
no bmvdry he doth mean :
I have no fait
For witty, in hi% language, is obfcene. Btnyonfcju
]t is moii certain, that barefaced iavidry is the
Drydcn,
pooreft pretence to wit imaginable.

Bay Tree,

manes.
There are light bays and gilded bays, which art
fomewhat of a ycllowKh colour. The cheftnut
bay is that which comes nearcll to the colour of

A wicked pratflice of procuring and
bringing whores and rogues together.

Some writers, perhaps miftaking

the

meaning, have ufed lay

as referred to
the aflailant, for diftance beyond which

/

He leaves his back unarm'd, the French and Welch
Baying him at the heels.

Slakeffeare.

Bay Salt.

Salt made of fea water, which
receives its confiftence from the heat of

the fun, and is fo called from its brown
colour.
By letting the fca water into

fquare pits or bafons, its furface being
ftruck and agitated by the rays of the
fun, it thickens at firll imperceptibly,
and becomes covered over with a flight
cruft, which hardening by the continuance of the heat, is wholly converted
The water in this condition
into fait.
fcalding hot, and the cryftallization
perfedled in eight, ten, or at moft

is
is

Chambers.

fifteen days.

All eruptions of air, though fmall ord flight,
give found, which we call crackling, puffing, fpitting, &c. as in lay fait and bay leaves caft into (ire.

Bacon.

Windoiu.
A window jutting outward, and therefore forming a kindof
bay or hollow in the room.

Bay

IShaktfpejre^
A
Bay
It hath lay windntti tranfparent as barricadoes.

no approach could be made.
All, fir'd with noble emulation, ftrive ;
And with a ftorm of darts to diftance drive

Tarn.

The Trojan chief; who, held at bay, from far

On his Vulcanian orb fuftain'd the war.

in

each bay, there being fixtccn hays, each eighteen
feet long, about feventcen wide, or three hundred
Mortimer.
fquarc feet in each bay.

dappled bay:. All i,jy horfes are commonly called
brown by the common people.
All b,iy horfes have black manes, which'diftingui/h them from the forrel, that have red or white

the pradlice of a bawd.]

1 .

hoife-f,

houfe in it after threepence a bay. Slakfp,

There may be kept one thoufand bulhels

and this cobur is various, either a light lay or a
dark buy, according as it is lefs or more deep.

Ba'wdry. »./. [contraftedfrom^atui/cry,
1.

faircft

j

denomination fometimes

ufed promifcuoufly with woollen yarn.

Drydin.

Chambers.

Wc have now, for ten years together, turned the Ba'yard. «.
/ [from bay.'\ A bay horfe.
where the

whole force and expence of the war,
enemy was bell able to hold us at a bey.

Blind bayard m"vrs the mill.

S'.vft.

Bay. n. /. In architefture, a term ufed
to fignify the magnitude of a building ;
as, if a barn confifts of a floor and two
heads, where they lay corn, they call it
a barn of two bays, Thefe bayj are from

Ba'vonet. «./.

[baytttette,7t.'\

Philips.

A ftiort

fword or dagger fixed at the end of a
muflcet, by which the foot hold off the
horfe.

.

One of th». black fpots is long «nd (lender, and
rtfemblcs a dagger or baycnet.

ffocdivard.

Bayze.

;

:

B E A

B E A

that part that is daflied by the wave;
the ftrand.
The filhermen, that walk upon the befch.
Appear like mice.
Sbakejptar/' s Kng Lear.
Deep to the rocks of hell the gather'd heacb
They faften'd, and the mole immenfe wrought on
Over the foaming deep.
Milicn,
They find the waihed amber further out upon

Their common loves, a lewd abandon'd pack,
The beadle'i lafli ftilliflaerar.t on their back. Prior,
Be'aproll. n.f. [from bead and roll.]
catalogue of thofe who arc to be men-

B E A
Bavze.

See Baize.

SDE'LLIVM. n.f. [/9JeXXi»> nha.] An
aromatick gum brought from the Le;

vant, ufed as a medicine, and a perfum*. Bdellium is mentioned both by
the aiicieat uaturalifts and in Scripture ;
but it is doubtful whether any of thefe
be tlie fame with the modern kind.
Chambers.
This hdeW.um is a tree of the bignefs of an oiivc,
whereof Arabia hath great plenty, which yieidech
a certain gum, fweec to fmell t-j, but bitter in
The Hebrews take the
tafte, called aifo IdtL'ium.

'

To BE. -v. n. [This word is fo remarkably
irregular, that it is neceffary to fet down

many of its terminations.
Prefent. / am, thou art, he is, lue are. Sec.

apon. Sax.
com, eapr,
ec
if,
/ ivas, thou txaji or inert,
paej-,

Preter,

hi nuas,

{

Be'.^ched.

The turbulent furge ihall cover.
Sbakefpeare.
adj. [from beach.l
Having
beaches.

The beacby girdle of the ocean
Too wide for Neptune's hips.
Shjkefpeare.
Be'acon. n.f. [beacon. Sax. from been,
a fignal, and becnan, whence beckon,

thou beejl,

he be,

ice be, &C.

bip:,

b?o,

beon. Sax.]

His blazing eyes, like two bright fiiining (hiehii;
Did bum with wrath, and fparkled living fire ;
As two broad beacons fet in open fields
Send forth their flames.
fairy S^een.
Modcll doubt is call'd
The beacon of the wife.
Stakefpeare.
The king feemed to account of Pcrkin as a
May-game j yet had given order for the watching
of beacons upon the coalls, and erecting more where

man is

Seventy frnaton died

By their profcriptions, Cicero heiitg one. Sbaheff.
He hath to-night bun in unusual pleafure. Sbak.

they floiid too thin.
Ba:on,
No flaming beacons caft their blaze afar.
The dreadful fignal of invafive war.
Cay.

Bt what thou hop' ft to be, or what thou art,
Kciign to death, it is not worth enjoying. Stakf^).

Be but about

The juftice «f your hearts will add thereto,

night,

'Tis pity file it not honeft, honourable.
Shahjh.
Let them (hew the former things what they be,

courfes,

Ipiah.
bis feailful

1.

diredt

navigators

in

Thy voice 1 fecm in every hymn to hear.

nament.

The winr of life ij drawn, and the mcer lees

To exift

With

Shatrffeare,

to have exiflence.
The times have hen.

Sbakefpeare.

3.

That tegds of fweat have ftood upon thy brow.
Sbakejpeare.

All th' impoflibilities, which pjets
Count to extravagance of loofe dcfcription.

rule.
If all political power be derived only from Adam,

and be ro defcend only to his fuccelTive heirs, by
the ordinance of Cid, and divine inftiiutlor, this
is a

right

Let BE.

antecedent and paramount to

Do not meddle with j

a'l

go-

L^ke.
leave

untouched.
Let le, faid he, my pfey.

BEACH, n./. The

Several yellow lumps of amber, almod like
beads, with one fide flat, had faftened therafclves
to the bottom.
Boyle.

Rciue.

To be, conterts his natural defirc j
He aflts no angel't wing, nor feraph's fire. Pope.
4. To have fomething by appointment or

flvorc,

DryJen.

particularly

Any globular bodies.
Thy Ipirit within thee hath been fo at war.

Macbeth.
Here ceafe, ye powers, and let your veageanceend,
Troy ir iw) mnre, and can no more offer.d. Dryden.

vtrnment.

and fans, and double charge of

With amber bracelets, beads, and all fuch knav'ry.

die.

Shall fooner be.

fcarfs

brav'ry,

;

That when the brains were out the man would

2.

A plant.

Bt-XoTree. [azedaraeh."]

Be'adle. n./. [bybel. Sax. ameflenger;
bedeau,FT. bedel, iip3.n. bedelle, Dmch.]
1. A meflenger or fervitor belonging to a
court.
2.

Coiuell.

A petty officer in parifhes, whofe bufinefs it is to punith petty offenders.

A dog's obey'd in office.
Thou rafcal beadle, huU thy bl'ioJy hand

Why doll thou lafii t)iat whore

?

S'xviff.

A piece of brafs like a beak, fixed ac
the end of the ancient gallics, with
which they pierced their enemies. It
can now be ufed only for the fore part
of a fhip.

Which, well laid o'er, the f ilt fea waves withftand.
And fiiake them from the tifing beak in drops.
Dryden.

A beak is a little flioe, at the toe about-

3.

an inch long, turned up and faftened ia
upon the fore-part of the hoof.
y

^

With ev'ry bead 1 drop too foft a tear.
Pope,
2. Little balls worn about the neck for or-

verb paflive is formed.
Is left thia vault to brag of.

StooJ chat:' ring with incefl'ant din,
And with her beak gave many a knock.

prayer.
That aged dame, the lady of the place.

Who all this while was bufy at hn beads. Fairy

clear idea ci the number of the fands, who knows

the

Miltoii's Paradife Reg.
Fond to Elijah bringinii.
The magpye, lighting on the ftock,

Small globes or balls of glafs or pearl,
or other fubftance, ftrung upon a thread,

beads, or to be at one's beads, is to be at

Sutlingfeel.
* To fay a man hat 'a clear idea of quantity, without knowing how great it ;j, is to fay, he has the

by which

As when his god is pleas'd.
Sbakefp. Cymbeline.
He faw the ravens with their hurny beaks

With boiling pitch another near at hand.
From friendly S^.eden brought, the feams inflops 5-

It is not eafy to difcem what fuch men would be
at.

the auxiliary verb

His royal bird
Prunes the immortal wing, and cloys his beah.

and warn them from rocks,

and ufed by the Romanics to count their
prayers ; from whence the phrafe to tell

Locke.

BEAK. n.f. [bee, Fr. pig,\Ye\ai.)
1. The bill or horny mouth of a bird.

their

Milton.

Hail gain'd thy entrance, virgin wife and pure.

5.

to

Dryden s Fables.

their queen.

To plains with we'tl-bred beagles we repair.
And trace the mazes of the circling hare. Pope.-

Bead. n.f. [b«abe, prayer, Saxon.]

frieods

is

About her feet were little beagles fcen.
That watch'd with upward eyes the motions of

fhallows, and fandbanks.

Paflet to blifs at the mid hour of night.

2. It

with wliich hares are hunted.
The reft were various huntings.
The graceful goddcfs was array'd in green j

Marks crefled, or lights made in tlie

2.

To fay Qie 15 a goodly lady, and

not how many they be.

Be'agle. n.f. [bigle, Fr.] Afraallhound

Something raifed on an eminence, to
be fired on the approach of an enemy, to

wife.

3.

An holy hofpital,
In which feven beadfm:n, that had vowed all
Their life to fenicc of high heaven's ki ng. Fairy i^.
In thy danger.
Commend thy grievance to my holy prayer ;
For I v.ill be thy bcadfrnan, Valentine.
Sbclrfpi

alarm the country.

beo,

Thou, when the bridegroom with

in praying for another.

Be'achy.

1.

/ be,

that we may confidcr them.
ITiercforc be fure.

[from bea<:h.'\

.

Be'adsman. n.f. [(torn bead ?t.ndma>!.\
Expofed
A man employed in praying, generally

Which, once a day, with his emboficd froth

pxpon. Sax.
The conjunftlve mood.

the

The king, for the better credit of his rfpiais
abroad, did ufe to have thcni curfcd by name
amougft tlie beadicll of tiic king's enemies.
P, icon's Henry VI f.

Timon hath made his everlafVing manlion
Upon the beached verge of the fait flood ;

paj-,

as,

tioned at prayers.

to make a fignal.]

pxr-e.
toe luere, tec.

quality, or accident ;

eitij.

to the waves.

To have (bme certain flate, condition,

1.

A

the btaches and ihores, wiiere it has been longer
cxpofed.
Wx,dward.

Saliigb.

loadftone for bdellium.

"

Sbakefpeare.

Thry ought to be ta'«cn care of in this condition, either by the beadU or the aagllirate.

Spenattr.

4.

Farrier's DiQ.

Any thing ending in a point like a
beak as, the fpout of a cup ; a prominence of land.
;

Cuddenbeak, from a well-advanced promontory,
which entitled it beak, taketh a profpect of the
Careius Surrey.

river.

Be'aked. adj. [from beak.] Having a
beak ; having the form of a beak.
And qucftion'd every guft of rugL^cd winds.
That blows from off each beakid promontory.
Milton.

A cup with-

Be'aker,»./. [from beak.]

a fpout in the form of a bird's beak.

And into pikes and mufqucteers
Stampt beakers, cups, and porringers.

hudihra;.

With dulcet bcv'rage this the beaker crown'd.
Fair in the midll, with gilded cups around.
P(,pe's Odypy.

Beal. n.f.

[bolla, Ital.]

A

whelk or

pimple.

[from the noun.] To
'v. a.
ripen ; to gather matter, or come to a
head, as a lore does.
BEAM. n.f. [beam. Sax. a tree.]
I. The main piece o^timber that fupportS'
the houle.

To Beal.

A beam is the largeft piece of wood in a building,

wbidi always lies crofs the building or the
walls,

:

.

!

.

B E A

B E A
w*Ui( rerving to Aipport the principal r>ften of th
roof, and into which tl<c feet of the principal raf
tcrs are framed.
No building has lefs tlian two
Into theie, the girders
hcoKu, one at each head.
of the garret floor are alfo framed j and| if the
building be of timberi the tciicl-tenoni of the
pofts are framed. The proportions of teams, in or
near London, are fiied by a£t of parliament.
A
bum, fifteen feet long, muft be feven inches on
one fide its fquare, and live on the other; if it be
fixtern feet long, one fide muft be eight inche^i
the other fix ; and fo proportionable to their
lengths.

Byilitr'i Dili.

H s double-biting axe, and beamf fpear;
Each jlcing a gigantic farce to rear. Dryil, Fablei.
J. Having horns or antlers.
Rouze fr>im their defert dens the brift!cd rage

Bean. »./ [fata, Lat.]

fize.

Dryden.

Any large and long piece of timber
more length th.m
diAinguiihed

is

from a block.
But Lycus, fwiftcr.
Springs to the walls, and leaves his foes behind,
And fnatches at the heav. he firft cm find.
DryJin's j^reU.

That part of a balance, at the ends of
which the fcales are fufpended.

3.

Pjif; the caufe in juftice' equal fcales,

Bean Caper, [fabago."] A plant.
Beam Trejfcl, An herb.
To BEAR. 1'. a. pret. / bore, or bare

that bare burdens.

The pole of a chariot

;

Juturna heard, and, fciz'd with mortal fear,
Forc'd from the beam her brother's charioteer.

Among weavers, a cylindrical piece of

1

Beam of an Anchor. The ftraight part

7.

er (hank of an anchor,
hooks are faftened.
8. Beam Compares.

to

circles with very long radii ;

Huh.

fy.^em.

and ufefui

His pious brother, fure the beft

Who e\or bore that name.

Dryden.

Pope.

To Beam.

[from the noun.]
emit rays or beams.
i».

n.

To

Each emanation of his fires
That beami on earth, e ich virtue he infpires. Pofx.

Beam Tree. A fpeciefof wild fervice.
Be'amy. edj. [from lieam.\
I.

Radiant; Ihming ; emitting beams.

Being the fon of one earl of Pembroke, and
younger brother to another, who liberally fupplied
his expcnie, beyond what his annuity from hit
Chrendon.
father could bear.
Give his thought either tlie fame turn, if our
tongue wiU bear it, or, if not, vary but the drefs.
Dryden,
Do not charge your coins with more ufcs than
It is the method of fuch as love
they can bear.
any fciencc, to difcover all others in it.
Addijin OB Medals.

6.

iniftakes,

he

would not have ftraincd

His fupreme fpirlt of mind will bear its beft refemblancc, when it rcprefents the fupreme infinite.

Aiterbury.
as they will not bear.
In all criminal cales, the moft favourable inter-

Cbeyne.

As hcav'n't bleft beam tumi vinegar mure irur.

Thy la\\*lefs wand'ring walks in upper air. Drytt
To be capable of; to admit.

5.

Had he not been eager to find

So we fay, to bear arms in a coat.

Dryden.

Honker*

Then each of favagc bcafts thf figure bears. Garth.

Pile ten hills on the Tarpeian rock.
SbakcJfeare'sCor'iolanus,

of

men alloweth, or the law of God itfcif will

The fad fpeflators ftiffen'd with their fears

That the precipitation might down ftrctch
Pleafing, yet cold, like Cynthia's filver brttm.

wife
bear.

She fee?, and fudJen every limb (he fmears,;

minous body, or received by the eye.
Below the beam of !ig!it.

to fufFer without refent-

To rejcfl all orders of the church which men

I

He may not bear fo fair and fo noble an image
of thf divine glory, as the univerfe •n its full

large projections, for drawing the
furniture on wall dials.
Harris.
9. [funnebeam. Sax. a ray of die fun.]
The ray of light emitted from fome lu-

;

menc.

Not the gods, nor angry Jove, will har

To carry as a mark of diftinftion.

in

To permit

1 4.

men, in this refped, than either the juiigment of

1 do commit into your hand
Th' unftained fword that you have us'd to bear.

5

to undergo, as puuilhment

fcive eftablilhed, is to think worfe of the laws

Stukffpeare,

A wooden or brafs in-

ftrument, with Aiding fockets, to carry
feveral (hifting points, in order to draw

.

Kings.

To carry as a mark of authority.

4.

which the

;

I have borne chaftifements, I will not offend any
^fii.
more.
That which was torn of beafts I brought not
hand
dldft
unto thee, 1 bare the lofs of it j of my
thou require it.
Genefis.

In fhew oi fricndlhip, fought tlie Spartan Ihore,
And ravijh'd Helen from her hufband htre. Garth.

Ckrort.

To fufFer

or misfortune.

A gueft like him, a Trojan gucft befoie,

The ftaff of his Ipear was like a weaver's btam.

Swift*

To endure, as pain, without finking.

13.

My meffage to the ghoft of Priam iear \
Tell him a new Achilles fent thee there. Dryd,J^n,

wood belonging to the loom, on which
the web is gradually rolled as it is wove.

Swift,
of my
fo bold

]t was not an enemy that reproach'd me, then I
could have bcrne it.
P/almi.

To convey or carry.

3.

to the land

upon me to engage in

an attempt.

12.

Decay of Piety.

Dryditi,

6.

That inviolable love I bear
nativity, prevailed

We

wood which runs between the horfes.

to the
Bacon.

As for this gentleman, who is fond of her, ihe

her young, Ipreadcth abroad her wings, taketh
Dtuteroncmy.
them, bearelb them on her wings.
fee fome, who we think have bcrn lefs oi
the burden, rewarded above ourlelves.

that piece of

and obedience

bearelb him an invincible hatred.

fyatli,

1

great faith

Darah, the eldeft, bean a generous raiod,
But to implacable revenge inclin'J.
Dryden.
The coward bin the man immortal fpite. Dryd.

As an eagle ftirreth up her neft, (luttcreth over

Dmbam.
5

Daniel.

They hare

And Solomon had threefcore and ten thoaiand

And taught the woods to echo to the ftream
His dreadful challenge, and his clafliing iiem.

To carry in the mind, as love, hate.
How did the open multitude reveal

They bfar him upon the Ihoulder} they carry
him and fet him in his place.
Ifaiab,

The horn of a iVkg.

eiaftick and

The wond'rous love they bear him under hand

To carry as a burden.

2.

of labour and

more

jlrbttibnsi c» Mmrrtt.

food.
1.

1

or born, [beojian, bepan.
Sax. bairan, Gothick. Jt is founded as
bare, as the are in care and tiare.'\
1. This is a word ufed with fuch latitude,
that it is not eafily explained.

in very diticrent fcnfes.

a great deal

ftrong j they can bear, and ought to have, ftrongcr

V-art. pair, bore,

proach, to bear a name, to bear a grudge, to bear
fruit, or to bior ciiildren.
The word bear is ufed

4.

Animals that ufc

excrcife, have their foliJ par;s

;

Skahejyeare.

vails.

Genejit,

kings.

We fay to bear a burden, to bear forrow or re-

If the length of the fides in the balance, anJ
the weights at the ends, be bith equal, the btam
will be in horizontal fituation : but if either the
weights alone be equal, or the dlftances alone, the
hcam will accordingly decline.
ffUkim.

up above the earth.

'

To fupport with proportionate ftrength.

The principal forts which are cultivated in

Whofe team Hands fure, whofe rightful cauie pre'

it was lifted

10.

England, a.e the Mazagan, the fmall Lilbon, the
Spanifh, thf^ Tokay, the Sandwich, and Wtniifor
beam. The Mazagan bear. I'i brought fron a fettlementof the Porlugucfe, on the c aft of Africa,
of the fame name ; and is by far the beft fort to
plant for an early crop.
Miller,
His allowance of oats and beans for his horfc
was greater than his journey required.
Stvift,

And rais'd from thence he reach'd the nei^hb'ring

it

The fpecies arc, i. 1'he c >mmon garden bean.
The lior/e bean. There arc feveral varieties

of the garden beans, differing either in colour or

A u-etghty ftone, the labour of a team.

by which

Some power iovifiWe fupports his foul.
And bears it up in all its wonted f reatnefs. ^ddif*^
g. To keep afloat ; to keep from finking tibmetimes with up.
The waters increafcd, and bare up the ark, and

Dryden I Virgil.

a.

yiddi/m.

them.

Of boars, and beamy iVags in toils engage

move

thicknels,

tie weight or maffinefs of a

beam.

He iieav'd, with more than human force, to

a beam muft have

may be remoTed, and fo • way be male either (<*
Hotker.
paganifm, or for barbarifm, to enter.
And Simfon took hold of the two middle piU
lari, upon which the houfc ftood, and on which tc
yudgtt*
was br<rne up.
A religious hope does not only bear uf the mind
under her fufierings, but nakei her rejoice in

Sirirb.

Having

2.

building of a timber houfc ; the walls and other
parti have columns and beam, but the roof is tile,
or lead, or ftone.
Bent:

heatu,

B fi A

All-feeing fun
Hi4e, h de in Ihamcful night, thy beamy liead.

The building of living creatures is like the

2.

!

.

pretation

Ihould be

puflibly can tear.

To carry, as in fliow.

16.

Look like the ti.me ; bear welcome in your eye,
Your hand, your tongue ; look like the innocent
flower.

my works to fuch a fcnfe

put upon words that they
Swift,

To produce, as fruit.

There be fome plants that bear no flower, and
there be fome that bear flowers,
yet bear fruit
there be fome that bear neither
and no fruit
:

:

But b| the fcrpent under 't.
Stakejfeare.
7. To carry, as in trulL
He was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what
yobn.
WIS put therein.
8. To fupport ; to keep from falling
:

frequently with up.
Under colour of rooting out popery, the rooft
cft'eAual means to bear uf the ftate of rclig'ien

flowers nor fruit.

Bacon,

They wing'd their flight aloft ; then, {looping
low,
Perch'd on the double tree that bears the golden
Dryden.
bough.
Say, (hepherd, fay in what glad foil appears
wond'rous tree that lacred monaichsirarj. Poft,

A

17.

To bring forth, as a child.
The

.

:

;

B E A

B E A

B E A
The quecR, that hm thee
Cftner upon her knecj than on her tVet,
Sbaktjfcare.
Died every day fhe liv'dYe know that my wife tare two fons. Gerujii*
What could the mufe herfeltthat Orpheus i«r<-.
The mufe herf?lf, for her enchanting fon ? Milun.
The fame jTneas, whom fair Venus hre
To fam'd Anchifes on th'Idean (hote. Drydtn,

To give birth te

:

foon hear dnon all conliderations, and be ah e/Tcctual incitement to their perverficu.
S'wift.

To conduft

30.

to manage.

;

My hope

And, drangers to the fun, yet ripen here. Gran-vUlt.

is

So to bear through, and out, the confulfhip,
As fpite ihali ne'er wound you, though it may me.
Si* *Jin^m.
31.

Csefar doth bear me hard j but he loves Brutus.

Here dwelt the man divine whom Samos Icre,
But now felf-bani(h'd from his native Ihore. Dryr!.
19. To poffefs, as power or honour.
Wlien vice prevails, and impious men ^rarfway,
The pod of honour is a private ftation. Add'if. Cato.

Though he hear me hard,
I yet muil do him right.
Ben Jortjon.
Thefe men bear hard upon 1*10 fufpc^ed party,

to

;

ShakeJ^ear^ .

place of.

commonly with
20. To gain ; to win
atvay.
As it more concerns the Turk than Rhodes,
So may he with more facile queftion htar it

Ihall fervc as toucbftooes to make our trial> by.

Cijmdin.

Some think to itar it by fpeaking a great word,
and being peremptory ; and go on, and take by
admittance that which they cannot make good.

To maintain

to keep up.
He findi the pleafure and credit of Arariff^ a part
Ih the convcrfacion, and of hearing his reafons ap-

21.

;

LacU.

proved.

zz.

32. To incite

Matter of glorious trial.

blame.

Tofupply.
What have you under your arm ? Somewhat that

1

as a reciprocal

power : generally with,

the particles ufon or againfi.
We were cncounter'd by a mighty rock.

Which being violently borne upon,
Our helplcfs (hip was fplitted in the midd. ShaM.
Upon the tops of mountains, the air which heart
again/t the redagnant quickfilver is lefs prefled.
Bcyle.^

38.

Hath he borne himfelf penitent in prifon ? Hbak,

Do you fufpsfe t.he fl.ite .,i this realm to be now
fo feeble, that it cannot bear nffi greater bliw than

Hayuard.

to urge; to pulh : with
fome particle noting the direftion of the
impulfe
as, di,'wn, on, hackyfofwarj.
The refidue were lo d:f,rdered as they could
;

;

not conveniently fight or fly, nnd not only juftlel
and bore dovta one another, but, in their confufea
tumbling back, brake a part of the avant guard.

And beart dorvn all before him.

Sbjkefpeare.

Their broken oars, and floating planks, withf^ and
Their paflagc, while they labour to the land ;
And ebbing tides bear back upon th' uncertain fand.
Dryden,
Now with a nclfeiefs gentle courle
It keeps within the middle bed j

Dryden.
teftimony of fober pcrfons defpifed.

Sivifi.

The bopci of enjojring the abbey landt wo.ild

A. Pinlifs.

I

Siuih.

doubted whether that occafnn could bear me
of giving your ladyfhip any

farther trouble.

Icmjilt.

To Be A R. v. V.

To fuffer pain.

1.

Becaufe the operations to be performed by the
teeth require a confiderablc drength in the indruments which move the lower jaw, nature hath
provided this with drong mufcles, to make it bear
Ray.
forcibly againjl the upper jaw.
The weight of the body doth hear mod upon the
knee joints, in raifing itfelf up j and mod upon the
mufcles of the thighs, in coming down. Pf^ilkins.
The waves of the lea hear violently and rapidly
upon fome Ihoies, the waters being pent up by the

but man is born to hear
Jove weighs affairs of earth in dubious fcales,
And the gr,od fuHets while the bad prevails. Pope.
They bore as heroes, but they felt at men. Pofe.

2.

;

To be patient.
I cannot, cannot bear \ 'tis pad, 'tis done
;
Perilh this impious, this detefted fon!
Dryden.

3.

To be fruitful or prolifick.
A fruit tree hath been blown up almod by the
roots,

and ki a^ again, aud (he acsC year hear

exceedingly.

Sear.^

Broonit.

land.

To aft upon.

8.

Spinoid, \v;tji his (hot, did hear upon thofe within, who appeared

Haytoard.

upon the walls.

To be fituated with refpeft to other

9.

places ; as, this mountain bears weft of
the promontory.
10.

To bear

up.

To ftand firm without

falling ; not to fink ; not to faint or faiL
So long as nature
Will hear up with this cxetcife, fo long
I daily

Stranger, ceafe thy care ;

Wife i< the foul

Dryden.

Sideling to feize.

Te bear out. Toftjpport ; to maintain ;

cut in the confidence

Anon it lifts aloft the head,
And bean dawn all before it with impetuous force.
Truth is bartie dawn, atteflation> neglcitrd, the

hear her tff.

thing.

Sir yokn Hayivard.

Contention, like a horfe
Full of high feeding, madly hath broke lonfe.

My

Addifin's Cato.
foul g^roVK defperate.

to defend.
I hupe y our warrant will bear ml the deed. Sbak.
I can once or twice a quarter bear out a knave
againd an honed man*
Sbakefpearc.
Changes arc never without dangerVTmlefs the
prince be able to bear out his actions by power.
Sir y. Hayvjord.
Quoth Sidrophel, I do not doubc
To find friends that will hear me out. Hadibrai,
Company only can bear a man out in an ill

to reftrjin I with 0^

this ?

As a lion, bounding in his way,
With foice augmented bears againfi his prey.

Creech.

I'll

they
Burnet.

could not lie fo dole at the bottoms.

Give but the word, we'll fnatch this damfel up.

And tiar her cff,

To behave j to aft in any charafter.

Some good inflruAion give.
How I may bear me hete.
Shateffeare.

The fides bearing one againjl the other,

will refpect thee as a father, if

\

To impel

To aft as an impellent, opponent, or

7.

Thou hear ji my life e^hencc.
Shakefpeare.
The fun views halfthe earth on cither way,
And here brings on, and there bean off the day.

Dryd.

Sbaheff^eare.

29.

deer, and feck ihe
Drydtn,
former (horcs.
In a convex mirrour, we view the figures and
all other things, which bear out vihh more lif-' and
Dryden.
drcngth than nature itfelf.

To carry away.

37. To bear off.

To be the objed of. This is unufual.
rU oc your father and your brother too
Let me but bear your love, 1*11 bear your cares.

;

To hear mirb this, the feamen dretch their oars^
Then round the rock they

Houth.

a6.

To hold

The m.irk to guide the mariners aright

!

will bear yourdiarges in your pilgrimage ?

28.

On this the hero fix'd an oak in fighr,

Shakeffeare.

Ye Trojan flames, your tcftimony btary
What I perform'd and what I fufter'd there. Dryd,
24. To be anfwerable for.
If I bring him not unto thee, let me tear the

Dryd.

Till he bore in, and best them into dighc.

His ficknefs, age, and impotence.

Bruges to enter peaceably into their town, with
a retinue fit fvx his eflatc j and hearing them in
hand, that he wa« to communicate with them ot
matters of great importance, for their good. Bacon.
It is no wonder, that fome would hear the world
in hand, that the apodle^s dcfign and meaning is for
prcibytery, though his words arc for epifcopacy.

27.

Never did men more joyfully obey.
Or fooner underdood the fign to fly :
Dryden^
With fuch alacrity they bmc aivay.
Whofe navy like a dift'-dretch'd cord did Ihew,

With fuch integrity, flie did confcfs,

Sbakefpearc.

Bcjte.

places.

the time when any thing was written.

To exhibit.

any point :

body i and then falling oft", and continuing tJ (hift

To have a certain
35. To bear a price.
value.
36. To bear in hand. To amufe with falfe
pretences ; to deceive.
Your daughter, whom Ihe btire in hand to love

Was falfely b^mc in band,

Shakefpeare*

to be direfted to

I'he oily drops, Iwimming on the fpirit of wine,
moved redleffly to and fio, fometimes hearing up
to one another, as if all were to unite into one

ble of being ground fo fine, and mixing
with the oil fo entirely, as to feem only
a very thick oil of the fame colour.
34. To bear date. To carry the mark of

Was as a fcorpion to her fight.

;

ing ; as. It/), iit/jay, onrward.

Mi/ton.

He repaired to Biugcs, defiring of the dates of

25.

To tend

with a particle to^etermine the mean-

Baan.

Gimfa.
you yourfelves (hall hear
guilt
The
of blood and facrilcgiou] war. Drjden.

Like a true friar.

A

on to oblerve, how they did hear
their fortunes, and how they did employ tlielr

O more than madmen

Indruft me

How I may formally in perfon bear

colour is faid to
33. To bear a hoJy,
iear a body in painting, when it is capa-

1 was carried

23.

To aft in any charadler.

6.

to animate.

;

Guardian*

hear.

5.

But confidence then hire thee on ; fecure
Either to meet no danger, or to find

To fupport any thing good or bad.

times.

to fucceed.
;
Having pawned a full fuit of clothes for a fum
of money, which my operator aflTured me was the
lad he fljould want to bring all our matters to

purfue her clofe through all her windings. .^^Wj/o;;.

:

For that it liands not in fuch warlike brace. Sbak.
Becaufe the Greek and Latin have ever i>orne
away the prerogative from all other tongi.es, they

To take effeft

4.

To prefs.

be the native

1 8.

Betwixt two feafons comes th' aufpicioul ar».
This age to bloflbm, and the next to hear. Dryden.
Melons on beds of ice ate taught to hear.

vow to ulc ir.

Sbakefpearc.

Perlbns in didrcfs may fpeak of themfclves with
it (hews a greatnefs of foul, that they
Broome.
hear up againd the dorms vf fortune.
dignity ;

The conlcioufnefsof integrity, the fenfeof a life
fpent in doing good, will enable a man to hear up
under any change of circumftanccs.
Aitirbury.

When our commanders ar^d foldicrs were raw
and unexperienced we lod battles and towns : yet.
we bore up then, ai the French do now ; nor wasthere any thing decifive in their fuccelTes. Stvift,

M. To bear 'wit/j. To endure an unpleafing thing.

Th«y

.

,.

;

B E A

B E A
They are content to bur vi'itb my abfence and
foUy.

Though I muft be content to btar with thofc
that fay you are reverend grave men ; yet they lie
deadly, that tell you, you hive good faces. Shak.

Look you lay home to him;
Tell him his pranks have been too broad to t>-i>r
Sbaiffpfjrf.
^itb.
Sear toUh me then, if lawful what I alk. Milicn.

chin.
Eie on thy chin the fpilrrging beard began
Tn fpread a d'^ubtful down, and promile m.in. Pri'r,
2. Beard is ufed for the face ; as, to do any

Your alter'd father openly purfuet
Vour ruin.

without endeavouring to put it into tenns brought

down to the capacity of the hearer,

And he tct ihrcefcorc and ten tnoufand of them

fiance, or to his face.

to be bearers of burdens,

Rail'd at th'lr covenant, and jeerM
Their rev'rcnd pcrfons to my beard,

Hudihrau

wbofe

life

I

!

When thou doft pinch thy bearer, thou doft fie

;

ruffian. Sir,

z Cbronieles,

One who wears any thing.
O niajcfty

3.

Beqrd is ufed to matk age or virility
as, he has a long beard, means he is old.
This ancient

Svjtfi,

One employed in carrying burthens.

2.

thing to a man's beard, is to do it in de-

3.

DryJen,

No gentleman fendi a fervarit with a meifage,

Like a rich armour worn in heat of day.

That fcalds with fafety.

have

Shaktfpeere,

thirty days, and generally produce five young onafc
In the winter, they lie hid and afleep, the male

fparcd at fuit of his grey beard.
Sbakeffeare,
Some thin remains of chaftity appear'd

4.

One who carries the body to the grave.

forty days, and the femai* four months ; and fo
foundly for the lirft fourteen days, that blows will
n^t waltt them. In the flcepy feafjn, they are

Ev'n under Jove, but Jove without a ^ctfr*^. Dryd,

J.

A tree that yields its produce.

/aid to have no nourifliment but from licking their

firmed by general tradition and a reverend beard,
Lsike.
overturned by in upftart novelift ?

but when enraged it is terrible ; and, as rough
and ftupid as it fccms to be, it is capablf of difciplinc ; it leapt, dances, and plays a thoufand little
tricks at the found of a trumpet. They abound in
Poland. In the remote northern countries the fpe-

4. Sharp prickles growing upon the ears
of corn.
The ploughman loft bis fweat, and the green

Hath rotted ere its youth attain'd a beard' Shakefp.
A certain farmer complained, that the beards
of his coin cut the reapers and thrclhers fingers.

Call hithtr to the (lake my two brave bean,

Bid Saiifijury and Warwick come to me.

—Arc

L'EJiran^e.

ihcfe thy bears ? we'll bait thy beirs to death,

And manacle the bearward in their chains. Sbak.

5.

A barb on an arrow.

Thou'dft fliun a hear ;

6.

The beard or chuck of a horfe, is that

But if thy flight lay tow'rd the raging fca,
Thou'dft meet the bear V th" mouth. Shahfptare.

part which bears the curb of the bridle.
Farrier's Did.

2. The name of two conftellations, called
the greater and UJJir bear ; in the tail

To Beard, v. a. [from beard.'\
To take or pluck by the beard, in con1
tempt or anger.
No man fo potent breathes upon the ground.

of the lejjir bear, is the pole-ftar.
E'en then when Troy was by the Greeks o'crthrown.

The bear oppos'd to bright Orion (hone.

Creech.

Bear-bind. n.f. Afpecies of bindweed.
jBEAR-PLy. n.f. [from bear and^.] An
infca.
Ther^ be of flies, caterpillars, canker-flies, and
Baan's Nalural H'tJI'-ry-

biarfus.

Bear-garden, n.f. [from bear znAgare/en.]

(.

A place in which bears are kept for
fport.
Hurrying me from thepIay-houfc,and the fcenes
there, to the bear-garjen, to the apes, and alTes,
StUlirgjleit
and tygers.

t.

may be able to beard him.
I

could not forbear going to a place of renow.j
namely to the tear-

miliar or low phraic for rui/e or turbulent ;
as, a beer -garden fdloiu ; that is, a man
rude enough to be a proper frequentel" of
Bear garden fport, is
the bear-garden.
ufed for grofs inelegant entertainment.

The leaves of this plant

and were formerty in great eftcem with the RoMdlir.
mans.

Bear's -EAR,

or Auricula, [auricula urfi,
Lat.] The name of a plant.
[cortufa, Lat.]

A plant.
J}e AR's-f OOT. n.f.

A fpecies of hellebore.

jBtAR's-woRT. n.f,

A a herb.

Pope,

Gefture ; mien ; behaviour.
That is Claudio j i know him by his bearingm

2.

Shakffpcare,

[In architefture.] Bearing of a piece of
timber, with carpenters, is the fpace
either between the two fixt extremes
thereof, or between one extreme and a
poft or wall, trimmed up between the
ends, to Ih^rten its bearing. Build. D.d.

3.

Be'arward. n.f. [from ^fflr and luflrij',]

A keeper of bears.
We'll bait thy bears to death.

And manacle the ifurwcrrf in their chains. Sbah.
The bear is led after one manner, the multituJe-

Her bearded grove of ears, which way the wind
Sways them.

Millen.

beamvard leads but one brute,
and the mountebank leads a thoufand. L^EJirange.
after another j the

^

Flewo'erthe field, nor hurt the beardedpMn, Dryd.

Barbed or jagged.

3.

Thci; Ihouid'u have pull'd the fecret from my

BEAST, n.f. [befte, Fr. beftia, Lat.]
1. An animal, dilHnguilhed from bird.*,

breaft.

infcfts, fiflies, and man.
The man that once did fell the lion's flcin

Torn out tne beardiJiift] to give me rtli. Dryden.

Be'ardi. ESS. adj. [from beard.}
1. Without a beard.

While the beafi liv'd, was kill'd with hunting him.
Shakejpeare.

There arc fome coins of Cunobelin, king of
Eflex and Middlefcx, with a beard.'ejt image, inCamden.
fcribed Cundelin,
2.

the capitals of the Corinthian pillars,

Saniclc.

Gradations juft, has thy pervading foul

Louk'd through i or can a part contain the whole *

Of Ceres, ripe for hirveft, waving bends

xn\ii\c tcar's-breeeb, with Ihort.l'pincs, iff. The
ufed in medicine, and is fuppofcd to be the

Bear's -EAR. or

fpeft to fomething elfe.
Bur of this frame, the bearing and the ties.
The ftrong connexions, nice dependencies.

As when a field

firft is

are cut upon

The fite or place of any thing with re-

1.

Shakefpture.

When ieatded meti in fl,)a;ing cafilesland. Dryden.
Having fharp prickles, as corn.

The

The fpfcies arc, i. The fmooth-leaved garden
iear's-brce>b. 2. The prickly i«jr'j-ir«rA. 3. The

mollis aeantbus of Virgil.

Be'aring. n.f. [from bear.]

Think every bearded fellow, that's but yok'd,

The fierce virago

Youthful.
And, as young ftriplings whip the top for fport

On the ftnooth pavement of an empty court,
The wooden engine flies and whirls about,
AJmir'd with clamours of the^ftfri//r/i rout. Dryd.
Bt'ARER. n.f. [from To bear.]
I,

A carrier of any thing, who conveys
any thing from one place or perfon to
another.
He (hould the bearers put to fudaco death.
Net Jhrivirj time lilow'd,

A man that

He that is more than a youth, is not for me ;
and he that is lefs than a man, 1 am not for him ;
therefore I will even take fixpence in earneft of the
bearberd, and lead his apes into hell. Shakcjpcare,

Be'arded. adj. [from beard."]
Having a bearil.
1

Bear-garden. a:fj. A word ufed in fa-

[acanthus. "^

as Jhepherd from fieep.]
tends bears.

More.

have been bearded by boys.

bearded by that new party, with whom they could
not agree about dividing the fpoil.
Swift.

2.

A fupporter.

Be'arherd. n.f. [from bear and herd,

epifcopacy, the prefbyterians alone begun, continued, and would have ended, if they had not been

Sj^^^atcr.

Bear's-breech. n.f.
name of a plant.

[In heraldry.]

7.

Old prophecies foretel our fall at hand.

for the gallantry of Britons,

garden,

timber, 10 (horten its bearing ; or to
prevent its bearing with the whole
weight at the ends only.

Spenjer.

The defign of utterly extipating monarchy and

M;iy draw with you,

Evelyn,

A poft or brick wall

raifed up betv%'een the ends of a piece of

But I will htard him,
Shakeffrare.
2. To oppofe to the face ; to fet at open
defiance.
He, whenfocver he ffiould fwerve from duty,

Any place of tumult or mifrule.
I

the raw bearers commonly perilh.

6. [In architefture.]

corn

Ca!met>

cies is whi:e.

This way of procuring autumnal rofcs, in fome
that arc good bearirs, will fucceed,
Boyle.
Reprune apricots, faving the young fljoots ; for

Would it not be infufferabic for a profelTor to
have his. autliority, of forty years ftaiiding, cm-

This animal has naturally an. hideous louk,

feet.

.

Forgive the bearer of unhappy aevrt

t
BE.'^RD. H.f, [beapb, Saxon.]
1. The hair that grows on the llpi and

BEAR. It./,

[bepa, Saxon; ur/t/t,hit.]
1. A rough fiwage aitimal.
Some have falfely reported, that iriirs bring tht-it
"ycunt into the world Ibpelefs, and that thcii dams
lick them into form. The dams go no longer than

B E.A:

Shakefprare.

Beafis of chafe are the buck, the doe, the fox,
the miiric n, and the roe.
BeaJIs of the forcft are

the bait, the hind, the hare, the boar, and the
wolf. 5r,i^r of warren arc the hare and cony. C^ve,'.
2.

An irrational animal, oppofed to man ;
as,
I

man and bea^,
dare do all that may become a man ;
d.irfs do more, is none.

Who

Wi.T- Icrjl was 't then

That made you break this enterpriie to me »
Shahripfare' s Maeieth,
Medea's charms were there, Cjrcean feaftj.
With bowls that turn'd cnamour'd youths to beafMi,

X)rydew,

3.

A

a

;

.

B E A
J

B E A

A brutal favage man ; a man afling in
any manner unworthy of a reafonable

.

To fni.'c things by long and frequent

of natural
profane wit.

By long beating the white of an egg with a lump

A term at cards.
See Bsestincs.
Be'astliness. n.f. [from ieajily.'] Brutality ; praftice of any kind contrary to
the rules of humanity.
They held this land, and with their filthincfs
Be'astin'gs.

And he heat down the tower of Penuel, and
flew the men of the city.
Judget, viii. 17.

That their own mother loath'd their heaftlirrfs,
Fairy Sluieit.

While winds and ftorms his lofty forehead beat,

Se'astly. a.{j. [from beaj}.'\

The common fate of all that '5 high or gn-at.

Brutal ; contrary to the nature and dignity of man.
It is ufed commonly as

Denbam,

As when a linn in the midnight hours.
Brat by rude blafts, and wet with wintry fiiow'rs,
Defccnds terrifick from the mountain's brow. Pofe.

a term of reproach.
Wonljil thou have thyfelf fall in the confufion
of men, or nmaia a bealt with bealls ?— Ay

—

10.

Sbahflxare.
You tcajliy knave, know you no reverence ?
Slakeffitare^i JClng Lear,
W.th lewd, prophanr, anil bc-.jily pbrafc,
Tocauh the wo.ld'i loofc lau^b.:er, or vuin gaze.

Ban Jonf'^n,
It is charged upon the gentlemen of the army,
Ihjt the hajily vice of drinking to cxcefs hath been
lately, from their example, reftored among us.

Swift.
J. Having the nature or form of beafts.
ruifiiy tlivinit c;, and drnv*3 of gods.
Prkr,

part.

pafl'.

To .1r;J:e

; to knock ; to lay blows upon.
So tijht 1, not ai one that ieaicib the air.

Cormtbhni.

He ra»'d with all the madnefi of dcfpair j
He roat'd, he beat his brea.1, h; tore his hair.
Dryder,

To punifb with Ilripes or blows.
They 'vc chofe a conful that will from them
t.ike

Midrefs ford, good heart, is beaten black and
b!u«, that you cannot fee a white fpot about her.
SiaUjpeare.

There is but one fault for which children fliould
be l;at:r. ; and that ii obftinacy or rebellion, iocli-,

To llrike an inJlruraent of raufick.
Bid them come forth and hear,
Or at their chamber do.:)r I'll beat tlie drum,
Till it cry, deep to death.

To break

;

to broife ;

Stah'Ipcare.

to fpread ; to

comminute by blows.
The people gathered manna, and ground it in
mills, oxbijr it in a mortar, and baked it. Nurr.hrri,

They did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut
it into wires,

to work it.

Extdut.

They fave

the laborioui work of beating of
hemp, by makir.g the axletree of the main wheel
t.f tlicircom mills longer tiian ordinary, and pUciug

f( tins in tliem, to ralfc Urge hammers like thcf^
ufcd for piper ar.d fulling mills, with which they

moll of their hemp.
Mcriimer.
Neftor furniflied the gold, and he btat it into
1-avcs, fu that he bid occaCon to ufe his anvil and
^c;.'

.

hammer.

Erctme.

To flrike bufhes or ground, or make a
motion to roufe game.
Jc is ftrange how long fome men will lie in wait
tT fpeak, and how many other marters they will

5.

tent over to come near it.

.

Bac-.ii.

When from the cave thou rifeil with the day
To teat the woods, and roufe the twuoding prey.
Priir.
Tr.jetI.er let us beat this ample field,

Trv \-rl-„: rhe open, what the covert yield.
f>.

Vol. I.

or purchafing ;

P'fie.

and ufury waylays buth.

divine adillance bring. Blaeimere.

his quartern, which

To conquer

;

So is Alcides beaten by his page.

Shakrfpeare.

That bear the ftiapes of men, how have you run

From Haves that apes would beat !

rr.c.

young fellow.

Public envy feemeth to beat chiefly upon nvnifters.

One fees many hollow I'paces worn in the l>ottoms of the rocks, as they are more or lefs able t#"
refill th.: imprcfiions of the

them.

The men of the city beTct the houfe round
about, and beat at the door, and fpake to tlic maftcr
^udgtj.
of the houfe.
4.

_

My temp'rate pulfe djcs regularly beat

Why any one Ihould wallc h'S time, e^n^-beat his
head, about the Latin grammar, who does not intend to be a critick.
Lucke.

Feel and be fatisfy'd.

which
;.

not

i.i

his power,

To throb

;

by any thought or
Lucie,

to be in agitation, as a fore

A turn or two

To fluftuate

6.

I'll

walk.

j

Sbakefpeare,^

to be in agitation.

Tha tempcft in my mind
Doth from my fenfes take all fccling elfe.
Saving; what beats there,
Shakefpeari.
7.

To try different ways

;

to fearch :

with

about,

Our warriuurs propag:i;ing the Fi-ench language,
at the fame time they are beating dvwn their pcwer.

1

am always beating ah^ut in my tlioughts fi^r
my dear

liimctliing that may turn to the beneiit of

yiddij'-r..

countrymen.
AMliJcn,
To find an honsft man, I bttit abmt.
And ]qya him, court him, praife him, in or njit.

Surh an unio^k'd-for ftcrm of ills falls on me,
Addif-.v.

8.

Dryden.

To aft upon with violence.
The fun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he

He that proceeds upon other principles in hi^
he will not qnit till he he ber.ten int.
Lickt.
He cannat bru it t;ir of his head, but that it
wj. a canlinal -.v'.vt picked his pocket.
/Jddif'in.
Tltc younger part of mankind might be beat ojf'
froa'tlic belief of the maH importaat pointi even

is

To Hill my bratiig mind.

ll.ty.uard.

16. To drive by violence : with a particle.
Twice have 1 fally'd, and was twics beat back.

it

fwelling.

pofition : ufualiy with the particle iic--.vn.
Albeit a pud m was prociaiin.:d, ti.uc!iing any

my ftn-ngth.

Dryden^

volition, to ftop.

Her own (haU blefs her;
Her fiws (hake like a fi-.ld nf becten corn,

It heati tliKvn all

Sbak.
y

A man's heart bcatSt and the blood circulars,

To lay, or prefs, as Handing corn by

with this lenity be abjted.

To move with frequent repetitions of
the fame aft or ftroke.
No pulfc ihiW keep
His nat'ral progrefs, but furceafc to beat.

So Whackum beat hi.j dirty brains
T' advance his mailer's fame and gains. HviJibrat,

fpecih tending to treafon, yet could not the bolJDcfs be Lcdten ,/«in either with that fevMty, or

water that beati againflv
Addifuit

To knock at a door.

3.

And as in prifons mean rogues beat
Hemp, fot the fervice of the great

;

Dryien.

Sees rowling tempefts vainly heat below.

no point of wifdom for a man to beat his
brains, and fpend h]> fpirics, about things im-

And^ang their heads witii forrow. Sheikeffyeire.
to crufh by repeated op15. To deprcls

Bacr>n.

Your brow, which does no fear of thunder know.

to over-labour.

hard weather.

To da(h as a flood or ftorm.

2.

It is

14.

would gladly under.'lind the formation of a

I

Mdifcn.

lUtewill.

;

foul, and fee ilbe.n the firft confcious pulfe. Collief.

_

_

go on

to

To move in a pulfatory manner.

1.

have difcern'd the foe fccurely lie.
Too proud to fear a beaten enemy.
Dryden,
'i'he common people of Lucca are firmly perfuaded, that one Lucquefe can beat five Floren-

;

;

To Beat, f. ».

I

To harafs

To walk

foot.

Sba<efj>eare.

Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, joining his (liips to
thofc of the Syracufans, beat the Carthaginians at
fca.
Arbutbrnt,

Aidifon.

To beat the hoof.

2 1.

Sbakrjpeare.

Five times, Marcius,
have fought with thee, fo often haft thou brat

poflible.

.

Will fancies he Ihould never have been the man
he is, had not he knock'd down coniiables,' and
beat up a lewd woman's quarters, when he was a

to fubdue ; to vanquiih.

If Hercules and Lichas play at dice.
Which is the better man ? Tlic greater throw
May turn hy fortune fiom the weaker hand ;

13.

to

Clarendan.

He that will know the truth of things, muft
lca\c the common and btatea track.
Lxke.

1

;

might eafily have been done.

tracks.

12.

Bacon.

To
attack fuddenly
"'

alarm.
They lay in thatquict polture, vvithoutoiakinj^
the Icall imprefiion up-^n the enemy by beating vp'

fainted, and wiihed in himfclf to die.

inijuiry, dot.s at lea S poft himfelf in a party, wliich

thrtlh ; to dtive the corn out of the
hulk.
She gluned in the fielJ, and teat out thit (he
had gleaned.
Jiiilt.W. it.
'I'o

Addifon*

To fink or IciTen the
19. To beat dtnun.
value.
Ufury^M/r diyivr. tlie price nf lanJ ; fnth? employment of money is chict'.y either merchandizing

To make a path by marking it with

1

tines.

Their libeitias ; make th:m of no more voice
Thaa dogs, that are often hat for barki.ig. Sbah.

4.

C'lefti.il dove !
1

dvwn the

not qvieftioning but he would beat

as

terms of it.

20. To beat up.

Vou fouls of gcefe,

teat, or tiaicn. [battre, French.]

3.

To tread a path.

to trufl the rcnegadj with

the money he had brought over for their ranfom ;

Wh;i: I this unexa^rpled talk eflay.
Pais aw.-'ul guUV, and beat my painful way,

bmfily ambition,

t.

Dryden.

She perfuaded him

Mii'tcx.

With tcmpefts beat, and to the winds a fcorn

Aad 'gan abhor her btcoj's unkindly crime.

I

Surveys rich moveables with curious eye,
3eati denvn the price, and threatens ftill to buy.

Lies dark and wild ; beat with peipetual ftorrns

Of whirlwind and dire hail.

Drydtn,

To beat da-iun. To endeavour by treaty
to Icffen the price demanded.

iS.

Bejond this flood a frozen continent

Pjlluced this fame g^tle foil long time ;

To BEAT. ». a. prefer, teat;

Thrice have I beat the wing, and rid with night

To dafh as water, or brudi as wind.

9.

fVatti,

About the world.

To batter with engines of war.

8.

by the impudent jerts of a

religion,

To move with fluttering agitation..

17.

of alum, you may bring it into white curds. Bylt.

?« Beast, v. a.

I,

B E A

agitation.

7.

creature.

I .

.

9.

To fpeak frequently

;

Jonat,

to repeat ;

to

enforce by repetition : with upon.
V/e arc drav.'n on into 3 larger fpetth, by reafin
of their fo great carncllncis, who Leat more and
more a/'cn theft lift alleged words.
Hacker,

V

Mow

;

.

How fitqiKMly tnd fcrrtDtljf doth tlit ft riptiit'
Ilukrtt'i.'i-

itot ufft this caulc S

10.

To Ifot uf

;

as, to beat up for foldiers.

up feenis redundanf, but enforces the fcnfe ; the technical term be'I'hc word

ing, to raife foldiers.

Beat. part, pajpiie. [from the verb.]

Beatj'ish. /J4?. [from ieau.] Befitting 3
beau ; foppilh.
Fair;
fl<^'. [from beauty.]
Beau'teous.
perfon,
charafter
of
any
z. To fettle the
elegant
in form ; pleafing to the fight
by a publick acknowledgment that he
beautiful. This word is chiefly poetical.
ii received in heaven, though he is not
I can, Pctruchio, help thee to a w.fe.
faint.
a
invelied with the dignity of
With wealth enough, and young, ana teautKui.
afcenJed into Paradif<-, and to have beheU the
forms of thofe b<eiifieil(f\tHi, from which I might
Dryden.
have copit'd my archangel.

Over

Like a rich veliiil ifjf by liorms to fliorc,

'Twere midneft fliould 1 venture out once more.
Drjdin.

Stroke.

2.

Manner of ftriking.

though never fainted.

Pliywiight, convift of publick wrongs to men,
Takes private tettirgi, an! brgins again. Bin JcnJ.

Bea'titude

n.f.

com-

pleafing to the fight ; beautifully.
Look up3n pleaTures not upin tha fide that is

The end of that government, and of all men's

next the fun, or w!icre they look brauteoujly ; that
is, as they come towards you to be enjoyed. tayUr,

monly ufed of the joys of heaven.

Grew.
He, with a carelefs htat.
Drydtr..
Struck out the mute crca:ion at a he.it.
jv Manner of being Ilruck ; as, the btat

aims, is agreed to be beatitude, that is, his being
Dig/^y,
completely well.
This is the image and little repttfcntation of

of the pulfe, or a drum.

heaven j

Be'aten. part. adj. [from To beal.l

it is

Taylor.

beatitude in piflure.

delights of fenfe ; (lightly paffing over the accomplilhmcnt of tlic foul, and the beatitude of that part

Be'ater. n.f. [from beat.']
comminuted or mingled.

SrowTi^s Vulgar Errcurs.

A declaration of bleflednefs made by

2.

Beat all your mortar with a heater three or four
times over, before you ufe it j for thereby you incorporate die fand and lime well together. Atoxcn.

A perfon much given to blows.
fchoolmafter of our time was
Aj'cbam's Scboolmcifitr.

the

greatcft buter.

Beati'pical. \adj. [beatifcus, low Lat.
Beati'fick. ) from beatus, happy.]
That which has the power of making

our Saviour to particular virtues.
[beau. Fr. It is founded like

Beau. »./

and has often the French plural
man of drefs ;
beaux, founded as boes.]
a man whofe great care is to deck his
bo,

A

Than aught divine or holy elfe, enjoy'd
MUlon.

In vifion btatlfick.

It is alfo their felicity to have no faith ; for enjoying the beatifical vifion in the fruition of the
objcA of faith, they have received the full evaBrotvn'i Vulgar Errcurs.
cuation of it.
We may contemplate upon die greatncfs and

BEATi'riCAtLT. ad-v. [from beati_fical.]

ten, and the envy of ninety-nine beaux in a

hun-

Sw'^i.

Bb'aver. n.f. [bie-vre, French fiber.]
An animal, otherwife named the cafior,
1
;

amphibious, and remarkable for his art
in building his habitation ; of which
many wontwrful accounts are delivered
by travellers. His fkin is very valuable
on account of the fur.
The heevcr being hunted, biteth oflT his ftones,
knowing that for them only his life is fought.

to bthoM the face of God, in the
of wifdom, righteoufncfi, and peace, is
Ueffednefs no way incident unto the creatures
Hataui/I.
beneath man.
Beatifica'tion. n./. [From beatifici.]
Btalifi^allf

wifdom of that animal ; indeeJ
from its artifice in building. Brown'i V-.lg.Err.
hat of the bell kind, fo called from
2.
being made of the fur of beaver.
the fagacity and

A

You fee a

A

think he was cheapening a bra'.'er,
when he is talking of the fate of a nation. Addijin.
The broker here his fpacious beaver wears,
Gay.
Upon his brow fit jcaloufrs and cares.

man would

u

;

are conferred by canonization.

To BEA'TIFY.
I. Tq make happy;
"j. a.

[beatifico. Lat.]

to

blefs

3.

and unfpcakabie, efpecially if free and unreft, alliwhich is
ed, bearing an image of that converfation
Hiimn:ciiJ.
among angels ami beatified faints.
We (hall know him to be the fulled good, the

and the moft certain ; and, confequrntly, the moft beatifyr.g of all others. Brown.
I wiJi 1 hid the wings of an angel, to have

In a beautiful manner.

No longer (hall the boddice, aptly lac'i
From thy full bofom to thy (lender waift,
That air and harmony of (h.'.pe exprefs.
Fine by degrees, and beautifully lefs.

Prior.

Beau'ti FULNESS. It./, [from beauti/ul."]
The quality of being beautiful ; beauty j
excellence of form.

To Beau'tif V. T. a. [from beauty.] To
adorn ; to embellifh; to deck ; to grace ;
to add beauty to.
Never was forrow more fweetly fet forth ; their
faces feeming rather to beautify their forrow, than
their forrow to cloud the beauty of their faces.

Haytuord,
Suflaceth not that we are brought to Rome,
To beautify thy triumphs snd return.

Captive to thee and to thy Ruman yoke ? Slak,
Thefe were not created to biautfy the earth
alone, but for the ufe of njan and beaft. Raleigh,

How all confpire to grice
Th' extended earth, and beautify her face.
Blaekmore,

There is charity and juftice ; and the one (crves
to heighten and beautify the i thcr.

Aitcrbury.

The part of a helmet that covers the To Beau'ti FY. ». n. To grow beautiful j
[bai/iere, Fr.]
His drc.iJf'uI hideous head,
Clofe couched on the braver, feem'd to throw
From flaming mouth bright fparkles fiery red.

face,

to advance in beauty.
It murt be a prulpcc^ pleafing

Big Mars feems bankrupt in their beggar'd hoft.
And faintly through a rurty beaver pecfs. 5i><i*.
He was (lain upon a courfe at tilt, the fplinters
Baan.
of the ft jft' going in at his biaver.
Be'avered. adj. [from bea'ver,] Covered*

with a beaver ; wearing a beaver.
His beaver'd brow a birchen garland bears.
Dropping with infants hlo»d, aod mothers tears.

"

Pope.

to

God himfelf,

to fee his creation for ever beautifying in his eyesx
and drawing nearer to him by greater degrees of

Sptnfer.

with the

completion of ce'jftial enjoyment.
The ufe of Iplritual conference is unimaginable

fmart rhetorician turning his hat,

into diftcicnt cocks, examininj tlic
moulding
lining and the button during his harangue ! a deaf
it

term in the Romifh church, diftinguiflied from canonization. Beatification
aa acknowledgment made by the
pope, that the perfon beatified is in
heaven, and therefore may be revebut is not a concefrenced as blefled
fion of the honours due to faints, which

Beau'tifully. adv. [from beauti/uJ.'\

HakeiviU.

They placed this invention upon the beaver, for

fulnefs

Drydeiu

Beautiful looks are rul'd by fickle minds.
And fummer feas are turn"d by fuddcn winds. Prior,

And fly they all, at once combin'd

dred.

:

mankind.

Prior.
^o (hame a general, and a beau f
You will become the delight of nine ladies in

In fuch a manner as to complete happinefs.

proper for that art ; that which is the moft beauti-

confequently the inftniOions of more benefit to

To Vill'roy ; are the land nymphs fo ?

glories that ftream from the fountain of uncreated
Scuih.
light.

He ftolc avtay and took by (Irong hand all the
Raleigh,
beautiful women in his time.
The moft important part of painting, is to
know what is moft beautiful in nature, and moft

Dryderj,

The water nymphs are too unkind

flrangenefs of the beetifick vifion ; how a created
eye flionld be fo forti6ed, as to bear all thofe

Fair ; having the qualities that conftir
tute beauty.

What will not beaux attempt to pleafe the fair ?

happy, or completing fruition ; blifsful.
It is afed only of heavenly fruition afAdmiring the riches of heaven's pavement

beauty.
From lefs virtue, and lefs btauteoufmf!.
The gentiles fiam'd them gods and goddefii;?.
Dome*.

fo, in poetry, tra.
fil, is the moft noble fubjeQ
gedy is more beautiful than comedy, becaufe the
inftruQs, and
whom
the
poet
greater
perions are

perfon.

ter death.

The (late or quality of being beauteous ;

Beau'tiful. adj. [from beauty andyi<//.]

which earth and vifibilities too weakly aftV-il.

An inftrument with which any thing is

neareft to us,

Beaxj'teousness. n.f. [from beauteous.]

He fet out the felicity of his heaven, by the

What makes you. Sir, fo late abroad
Without a guide, and this no haun road ? Diyd.

The b«ft

Prior,
Was all the glory I defi' d.
Be au'teousuy. adv. [from biauieout,]
In a beauteous manner ; in a m.anner

[heat it udo, Lai.]

1. BIcfTednefsj felicity; happinefs:

broader best upon the air.

2.

ShakeJ^eare*

Alas ! not hoping to fubdue,
1 only to the flight afpir'd ;
To keep th? beavteoin fix in view.

j^ddijait.

punifhment by blows.

Albeit the bale and ticHeftrings of a viol be
twnci to an unifon, yet the tormer will ftill make
a bigger luund than the latter, ai making a

1.

ftunds an hofpital,
(hocmakcr, who has been btatijiid,

againft this church

ertflcd by a

Be'ating. n.f. [from beat."] Correftion;

Beat. ». / [from the verb.]
1.

B E A

B E A

B E A

refemblance.

Addifon,

BEAU'TY. n.f. [ieaute, Fr.]
1.

That aflemblage of graces, or proportion of parts, which pleafes the eye.
Beauty cjnfifts of a certain compofition of colour and figure, caufing delight in the beholder.
Locke,
Your beauty was the caufc of that efTeS,

Yotti beauty, chat did haunt me in my lleep.—

If

.

B E C
If I thought that, I telt thee, homicM«,
fliould rend that beauty from my
checks.
Sbakcfpeare,
Beauty is beil in a body that hath rather dignity
cf prefence than beauty of afpeft. The beautiful
prove accomplinicd, but not of great fpirit, and
ftudy for the moft part rather behaviour than
Baecv,
virtue*
The bed part o( ieatty is that which a pi^ure
Bacon*
cannot exprefs.
Of the beauty of the eye I (hall fay little, leaving
that li poe^ and orators : that it is a very pleafunt

Mul lovely objeft to

bc'hold,

if

B E C

Beca'use. nnjunSl. [from /5y and cattfe.'\

To Bbco'me. v,n, pret. I became comp.
pret. I have become, [from by and ceme.\
1
To enter into fome ftate or condition,
by a change from fome other.
The Lord Cod breathed into his noftrils tht
breath of Ufe, and man became a living foul.

1

anfwered by

you dcdroy

Any thing more eminently

J.

than the reft of that with which

2.

4.

A beautiful perfon.
Remember that Pelican conquerour,

A youth, how all the beauties of the eaft

chance.'\

Becafi'co. »./. {becafigo. Span.] A bird
like a nightingale, feeding on figs and
grapes ; a fig-pecker.
Pineda.
The robin-redbrea(J, till of late, had re(t.

And children facrcd held a martin's neft

;

Till beeaficcs fold fo dev'lilh dear,
To one that was, or would have been, a'p«er. Pope.

TaBeca'lm. -v. a. [from «/«.]
The moon Ihjne clear on the becalmed flood.
Dryden,

2.

To keep a (hip from motion.
A man becalmed at fca, out of fight of land, in

a fair day, may look on the fun, or fca, or (hip,
a whole hour, and perceive no motion.
Locie,

3.

;

To quiet the mind.

All happinefs bechance to thee at Milan.

Ferplcx'd with irklome thoughts.
PbiUj>s.
Baniih his f^inows, and becalm his foul
With eafy dreams.
Addijlr..
Perhaps proJpcrity beealm*d his breal^ j
Perhapc the wind jud Ihifted from the cart. Pcf!.

4.

To becalm and 10 calm differ

in

this,

that to calm is to llop motion, and to be-

calm is to with-hold from motion,

ti'hat became cf ail the blood that ifl'ued out of the

heart.

Graunt.
fVhat will become of me then ? for, when he it
he will infallibly accufe me.
Dryden,
li'hat became of this thoughtful bufy creature,
when removed from this world, has amazed the
vulgar, and puzzled the wife.
Rogers,
free,

3.

Shakefp, Antony and Cleopatra.

Beck, n.f, [from the verb.]

A fign with the head

;

a nod.

I

To Beco'me. v. a. [from ^^ or by, and
cpemen. Sax. topleafe.]
I. Applied to perfons, to appear in a

manner Suitable to fomething.
If I become not a cart as well as another man,
a plague on my bringing up.
Sbakeffeare,
would I be a queen ? becaufc my face

A nod of command.

Why

Would wear the title with a better grace ;

Neither the lufty kind (hewed any roughnefs,
nor the eafier any idlenefs; but ftill like a wellobeyed madcr, whofe ieei is enough for difcipline.

Sidney.

Then forthwith to him takes a chofen band

Of fpirits, likeft to bimfelf in guile.
To be at hand, and at his beck appear.
The menial fair, that round her wait,

Milton,

At Helen's beck prepare the room of ftate.

Pepe.

To Be'ckon. V, n. To make a fign withAlexander beckoned with the hand, and would
have made his defence unto the people.

ABs, xix. 33.

When he had raifed my thoughts by thoic
tranfporting airs, he beckoned to mc, and, by the
waving of his hand, dire^ed me to approach.
Addijim.

Sudden you mount, you beckon from the (kics
Clouds interpofc, waves roar, and winds arifc
Pope.

To Be'ckon. <i/. a. [from beck, or beacn.
Sax. a fign.]

To make a fign to.

With her two crooked hands (he figns did mak«,

And beckind him.

Tairy St^ten,

It beckons you to go away with it,

A! if it fome impartmcnt did dcfire

To you atone.

Shakejpeare,

With this his dil{.int friends he beckons ncjr,
Provokes their duty, and prevents their fear. Dryd,

To embrace,

cannot joy, until I be refolv'd

Where our right »aliant father is becemt. Shakeffm

Haltc thee, nymph, and bring with thee
Quips, and cranks, and wanton wiles.
Nods, and beds, and wreathed fmiles*
Art/ten,
2.

In the following paflage, the phrafe,
is ufed for, <ii.'hat it
become of him?

inhere is he become?

Bell, book, and candle, (hall not drive me back,
When gold and filver bed me to come on. Shah.
Oh this falfe foul of Egypt, this gay charm,
Whofe eye beck'd forth my wars, and call'd them

1.

Milton.

The firft hints of the circulation of the blood
were taken from a common perfon's wondering

a motion of the head.

Rec a'mi. The preterite oi betome; which To Becli'p. ev. a. [of be clyppan^ Sax.]
fee.

0/"mc, and ail mankind.

Skak.

To make a fign with the head.
'V. a. To call or guide, as by

home*

Raleigi.

I'erplex'd with thoughts, lohat would become

Be'c HICKS, n. f. [^iixixu, of |Sr|, a
cough.] Medicines proper for relieving
coughs.
Did.
To BECK. -v. n. [beacn. Sax, bee, Fr.

Soft whifp'ring air", and the lark's mattin fong,

Then woo to mul'^g, and bccalni the mind

tinent.

:

out words.

To ftill the elements.

t .

To befal

Sha^ejpeare-

in ufe.

Gre^'.

IVhat is then become of (0 huge a multitude, as
would have overfpread a great part of the con-

[from be and
to happen to
a

n.

'u.

My fons, God knows what has bechanced them.

Can he, who kill'd thy brother, live for thee ?
Dry den.
To Beau'tv. tj. a. [from the noun.] To
adorn ; to beautify ; to embcllilh : not

fpot of the animal creation.

terrogative.

word proper, but now in little ufe.

head.]

it.

is never, or very feldom, ufed
but with ixihat, either indefinite or in-

Arbutbr.ot,

To Becha'nce.

To become of. To be the fate of; to be
the end of; to be the fubfequent or final
condition of. It is obfervable, that this

word

it.

cretion.

To BrcK.

Than is my deed to your moft painted word. Sbak.
BiiAn'TY-spoT. n. /. [from beauty and
A fpot placed to direft the eye
/fot.'\
to fomething elfe, or to heighten fome
beauty ; a foil ; a patch.
The tilthinefs of fwine makes them the beauty-

y after

Infancy demands aliment, fuch as lengthens
fibres without breaking, becauje of the ftate of ac-

What can thy ends, malicious beauty, be ?

The harlot's cheek, ^AHiririf with plad'ting art.

2.

Tilhtlhn.

fome fort, the force of a prebut, becaufe it is compounded

of a noun, has

He (lightly view'd, and (lightly overpafs'd. Mihcn.

Is not more ugly to the thing that helps

men are more concerned in

It has, in

pofition ;

it is

Arbuibr.u.

other, becauje the interefts, nnd

the one than the other.

united.
This gave me an occjfion of looking backward
on fome beauties of my author in his former books.
Dry Jen.

billoiians

My

Men do not lb generally agree in the fenfe 'Af
lufts, and paflions of

a

With incredible pains have I endeavoured to
copy the feveral beauties of ttie ancient and m.idcrn

gain the Jews.
i Corin, ix. 20.
(mailer pear, grafted upon a (lock that beareth a greater pear, will become great.
Bacon,
voice thou oft hail heard, and haft notfear'd.
But ftill rejoic'd ; how is it now become
So dreadful to thee ?
Miliin.
So the lead faults, if mix'd with fairtft deed.
Of future ill become the fatal feed.
Prior,

A

thefe as of the

^Jeiifon,

excellent

Gcnefis, ii. 7.

And unto the JewsIiccmKi a Jew, that 1 might

H.iw great foevcr tlie (ins of any perfon are,
Chiift died for him, brcauje he died for all j and he
died for thofe (ins, becauje he died for all (ins:
only he muft reform.
Uav.mcnd.

Dry den.
a patch,

/ fed be-

as,

fled.

tefemble the beauties of nature ; and nature will
ever be beautiful, which refembles thofe itauiin of

Wherever you place

therefore ;

',

caufe / ivai afraid \ which is the fame
with, becauje I was afraid, therefore I

R.!y.

beauty,

It makes the

part of an illative propofition, either exprefsly or by implication, and is
firft

we confider the

anti<iuity.

For this reafon that ; on this account
that ; for this caufe that.

figure, colours, fplcndour of it, is the Icaft I can

He vicw'd their twining branches with delight,
And praisM the beauty of the plcafing fight. Pofe.
2. A particular grace, feature, or ornament.
The ancient pieces are beautiful, becaufc they

.

B E C

Thcfe nails

fay.

;

!

Di3,

If I became it not, yet it would be

Part of your duty then to flatter me.
z.

Drydem.

Applied to things, to be fuitable tio the
perfon ; to befit ; to be congruous to the
appearance, or charader, or circumftances, in fuch a manner a» to add
grace ; to be graceful.
She to hij- fire made humble reverence,

And bowed low, that her right well bet -'me,
And added grace unto her excellence. Fairy S^in,
I would

1

had fomcHowers

0' tb' fpring that

might
Beetme your time of day;

mi ysur*t, >nil yosr's.

That wear upon your rirgin kianches yet
ihahe/peare.
Your maidenheads growing.
Yet be fad, good brothers ;
For, to (peak truth, it vciy well btccmts you. Sbat,
Your dj(honour
Mangle? ttuc judgment, and bereaves the ftate
Of that integrity which (hould btcmth. Shakefp.
Wicherly was of my Opinion, or rather 1 of his;
for it ttcimts me fu tu fp:ak of fo excellent a poot.

Dryden,

He utterly xcjefled the'ir fables concerning their
gods, as not becuming g«rd men, much lels thofe
wliich were wor(hlpped for gods.
StUJtngfert,

Beco'mikg, fatticifi, eefj, [fironi bcfofpe.']
That which pleafes by an elegant propriety ; graceful.

with the partkif le
Y2

It is fometlmes

^j

ufed
but gencmlly

with^

E

.

:

BED

BED

Ten months wfter Florimcl happen*)] fo wed.
And WiTibronglr in a laudable manner fo/'i</. yiitr.
To put the bed in
9. To mah thi Bed.
order after it has been uied.

Be'dciothes. n.f. [hom bed axii clothes.

B E D
without any government of the following words.

Of thee, kind boy, I alk no red uid white
To make up my delight,
No odd hecomw» graces.

keep his houfe, and I wa/li, wring, brew,
bake, feour,drefs meat, and mait ibt beds, and do
I

Black eyes, or lituc kiiow not what, in fices.
Suckling-

«

belong to their
Their difcoiirres are fuch
age, thcit calling, and their breeding; Tuch as
Drjdtn,
are bianJug of them, and ^f them only.

Since my iucm'wgi kill me when they not
Shakf/ftan,
Eye well to you.

Beco'mincly. a</i'. [from becoming.'] Af-

Bed e/ a grsat Gun.

That thick plank
which lies immediately under the piece,
being, as it were, the body of the car-

To Bed. <v. a, [from the noun.]
1. To go to bed with.
They have married mc
I'll

2.

BED. n.f. [bib. Sax]
Something made to ileep on.

1

Lying not crefl, but hollow, which is in the
malting of the btd:, or with the legs gathered up,
which is in the pollutv of the body, is tlie more
Bacin.
wholefome.

Lodging ;

Start up, and ftand on end.

Sbakff^tiiri.

Marriage.

CUrcodatJ'

Bank of earth raifed in a garden.
Herbs will be tenderer and fairer, if you take
thcra out of beds, when they are newly come up,
•nl remove them into pots, with better earth.
''

Beam.
The channel of a river, or any hollow.
So high as heavM the tumid hills, fo low

5.

Down funk a hollow bottom, broad, and deep.
Capacious b<d of waters.

magazine

hfihcn.
for all

We

Ad4:jon.

water.

6. The place where any thing is generated,
.

or rcpoftted.

a body fprcad

over another.
1 fee no rcafon, but the furface of the lanJ
/hould be at regular ai that of the water, in the
firfl produAion of it; and the ftcata, or bedi withBurner,
h», lie as even.
-•

8. To bring to Bed.

To deliver of a child.

It is often ufed with the

panicle of;

To Beda'bble. f. a. [from /iabble.] To
wet; to befprlnkle. It is generally applied to perfons, in a fenfe including in-

convenience.
Never fo wear)', never fo in wne,

as,

i>4 was brought so bed of a daiigkur.

Sfiafa:
with alTiiu'^us care from winter keep.

Well fother'd in thu flails, tliy tender flieep

Then fpread with ftraw the beddinf of ihy <iild„
With fern beneath, to ftnti the bitter cold. Dijd^

7e Bede'ck. <v. a. [from deck.] To deck •,
Thou (ham'll thy (hapc, thy love, thy wit.
And ufeft none ii: that tnie ufe indeed.
Which Ihould Lateci thy ftapc, tby: love, thy «•!»».
Sb'akejft are*

That fo beitck'd, ornate, and gjy.
Comes this way.
Millmi^
With ornamental drops bedeck' d I flood.

And writ my vidlory with my enemy's blood. Norrls^

Now Ceres, in her prime.
Smiles fertile, and with ruddied freight bedecks.
PkWf!.

Be'dehouse.

/. [from

bebe. Sax., a
prayer, and beu/e.] An hofpital or almshoufe, where the poor people prayed for
their founders and benefadors.
Bedl'tter. See Beoder.
ft.

To mois-

ten gently, as with the fall of dew.
£cdiw her ps.lure's giafs wiili En^i!h btoott.
Let all the tears, that (hould bedem my lieifc.
Be drops of balm to fantfl'fy thy head.
ShaBefp*.
The countcf.. received a letter from h'm, whereunto all the while (he was writing her anfwcr, flic
bcdiived the paper v^ith her teai*s.

To Beda'ggle, <f. a. [from lie^ggk.] To
bemire ; to foil clothes, by letting them
raach the dirt in walking.

To Beda'sh. f. a. [from e/tT/h.] To bemire by throwing dirt tobcfpatter; to.
wet with throwing water.
When thy warlike father, like a child.

JVcttin.

What fiendcr youtli, Ledcw^dviUh liquid odours^.
Courts tliBC on rofc , in .'bme j leafant cavjL.'
Balm, from afitver box diflill'd around.

Afi/r.

and fcent the

facrcii

Shall

Bedi^bbled with the dew, an! torn with briars,
1 can no further crawl, no further go. Shakiffteare,

all

bedetu the roots,

ground.
Dryden,
He ihid : aud falling teats his face tedevc, DryeL

Be'd FELLOW, n.f. [from bed ^nAfeUovj.']
One that lies in the fame bed.
He loves your people.
But tie him not to be their bedftllovi.

Stake/f^
Mifery acquaints a man withftrange bcdfti/cirs,.
Sbtiktjffarc*

Told the fad ftory of my father's death.
That all the ftanders-by had wet their cheeks.

Why doth the crown lie there upon his pillow;
Being ftr troublcfomc a bedfelUtv f
Sbake/peare*
A man wauld as foon choofe him for his bed'

Like trees bedajr/d with rain.

fclhm a> his play fellow.

Shakefueare.

TcBeda'wb. -v.a. [fTOmdeznvi.l Todawb

L'EJiran^e.

What charming bedf^l!vioi,^Tii companions for
life, men cho<^fe out of fuch women
yfddt/cjf.
To Bedi'ght. t/. <r. [from dighi.] To.
!

over ; to befmear; to foil, with fpreading any vifcous body over it.

B E d a'z z L E

.

<i/.

a.

[ from

daxxJe. ]

To

make the fight dim by too much luilre.
My miftaken eyes.
That have been fo litdtixxltd by the fun,
That every thing 1 look on fcemf'th green. Rhak.
B E*D CHAMBER. »./. [from bed and chamber.] The chamber appropriated to reft.
They were brought to rfie king, abiding them
in his bedehamher,

adorn ; to drefs ; to fet off
an old
word, now only ufed in humorous wri>
:

A piteous corfe, a bloody piteous corfe.
7*0

-/tddlfon.

a ftratum ;

•

FIrft,

Shatejftare*-

Pale, pale as alhcc, all bedatob^d in blood.
All in gore blood.
Shaieffenre.

See hoary Albula't infefted tide
O'er the warm h<d of fmoaking fulphur glide.

J, .\ layer ;

To cohabit.

;

kinds of treafure
may
is fuppofed to be the bed of the Tiber.
be fare, when the Romans lay under the apprchenfions of feeing the*r city facked by a barbarnu?^
enemy, that they would cake care to bellow fuch
of their richca that way, as could bed bear the
I'he great

Stakfjfeare.

If he be married, and h<d with his wife, and
afterwards reiapfe, he may pollibly fancy that Ihe
infcfted him.
JVtf^man.

That you'll vouchiafc me raiment, bed, and food.

had ; fo that his mantle fctves him then tor a bed.

To Bede'w. 17. a. [from i/ezu.]

Your bedded hairs, like life in excrements,

To Bed. 11. n.

up.

to ftratify.

And as the flesping foldicrs in th' alarm.

DryJm.
the convenience of a place

George, the elJeft fon of this fecond brd, was,
after the death of his father, by the fingular
care and afiedlion of his mother, well brought

;

bed.

Firtialc it feems,

L''EJirange.

To lay in order

a.

There be no inns where meet Teddinr may bi

Baccn.

A fnake bedded himfelf under the threfliold of

On my knees I beg,

4.

between the pfpoufal rtiects.

a country-hcufe.

6.

rials of a bed;

to adorn ; to grace.

There was a doubt ripped up, whether Arthur
Bsar..
was bidded with liis lady.
4. To fow, or plant in earth.
Lay the turf with the grafs fids downward, upon
which lay fome of your beft mould to /'crf your quick
M'-rurr.cr.
in, and lay your quick upon it.
5. To lay in a place of reft, or fecarity.
Let coarfe bold hands, from (limy neft.
Dmia.
The bedded fi(h in banks outwreft.

to fleep in.

3.

to the Tiifcan wars, and never bed her. Slat.

To make partaker of the bed.

Rigour now is gone to hcd,

2.

Shttkffpiate,

Arcitc return'd, and, as in honour tied.

To place in bed.

tn tile knee,

3.

And Advice with fcrupulous head.

Mthon.
Thofc huufes then were caves, or homely ftieds,
With twining oziers fcnc'd, and mofs their beds.

For ha will be fwine drunk, and in his flecp he
dues little harm, fave to his bedclahts about liim.

His foe wi:h btddhgind with food fupply'd. Dryd,

She was publickly contrafled, dated as a bride,
and folemnly bedded ; and, after ihe was laid,
Maximilian's ambafTador put his leg, ftript naked

B co'm

greater in its extent, than the htcjimr.gmji thereof
CrcKo.
is in its manner and form.

D;V7.

riage.

ter a becoming or proper manner.

[from becomiHg.
I N G N E ss.
Tt. /.
See To Become.] "Decency; elegant
congruity ; propriety.
Nor is the majelty of the divine government

DiS.

tiunnions.

Orna-

iir, Icr^ivc me.

Coverlets fprcad-

Sbairffrare,

dle, to receive the breech and half the

pcrtedled into an habitual aud btdmiing tafinefs.

Beco'minc. K.f. {(toM hecame.']
ment. A word not now in ufe.

It has no Jingular.]
over a bed.

Bb'dder.
)«./ [(rom bed.] The ne«
Bed c/ a Mortar, [with gunners.] A Bede'tter. 5 ther-rtone of an oil-miil.
folid piece of oak, hollowed in the mid- Be'dding. n.f. l^itom bed.] T.he matemyfelf.

all

.Yet fcine iccmimr boldnrfs I may ulc }
I've vitll dclcrvM, nor will he row rclufc. Drydtn.
Make their pupils repeat the aftion, that they
ma*' correS what is conftriincd in it, till it be
.

;

Hetynvard.

He was now ooe of the hldcbarnbtr to the prince.
('iSrcr.din.

ings.
A maiden fme heiliglt he Jiapt to love j
The maiden fine btdight his love letairs.
And for the village he ftfakes the plains.

To Be di'm.

dim ;

1'.

a.

[{rom dim.]

C7.rj.

To make

to obfcure ; to cloud ; to darken.

I have bedlmm'd
The norntidc fun, cali'd forth the mutinous windt,
And 'twixt the green lea and the azure vault
Set roaring war.
Shakej'fvare.

To Bedi'zen.
drefs out :

o".

a.

[from dizia.]

To

a low word.

BE'DLAM.

BED

Wand

n/if.]
Be'i>R!Te. fi.f. [from
privilege of the marriage bed.

name of a religious houfe in

place appointed

a

;

for

the cure of lunaci.
2.

A madman

Sbakejj>tare.

B e'd 3 T A F F. It./, [bed zndjfjff'. ] A wooden
pin ftuck anciently on the fides of the
bedftead, to hold the clothes from flipping on'eithsr fide,

Strike in their numb'd and mortif^'M bir« arms
Pins, wooden pricks.
Shjh.f^cr-.

liultefi,

Be'dstead. It. /.

[fro-m bed

d.r\6 J}ead.'\

The frame on which the bed is placed,

If wild ambition in thy bofoni reign,
Aias thou bo»fl'ft thy f jbcr fcnfe in vain ;
In thefe poor bidlam'iUs thyfelf lurvcy,
Thyfelf leH innoccnrly mnd tiian they. Fjm:^rralH<

Chimnies with fcorn rcjefling fmoke ;

!

Stools, tables, chairs, and hci'Jiiads broke.

A perfcn in the univerfiues, wliofc office

ot hedjlrflio kept clofe, and not air;:d.

There is but one fpecies of this

one that ranges or fwcrves from one bed

Spt.Q/Jtcr,

;

to another.

fame bed.

tree at prefent

varieties,

Nor is that, fprightly wiFdnefs in their notes.
Which, clear and vigorous, warbks frora the beich.

She 's a ieJfwervery even as bad as thofe

good occaGon to lie long

Sa.xoa ;

with ftriped leaves.
It will grow to a confiderable ftarure, though the
the defoil be floney and barren ; as alfo, up
The fhade of this tree ii
clivities of mountains.
to
be
very
believed
plants,
but
is
very injurious to
The timber is of
falubrious to hunxan bodies.
great ufc to turners and joiners. The mall is very
Miller,
good to fatten fwine and deer.
Black was the forcft, ti'.ick with bceb it ftood.
Drydcn.

known, except two

llaan.

one that partakes of the

To

BEECH. «. /" [bece, cr boc,

m

Be'dmate. »./. [from ^c.y and .wa/f.] A

I

They that a.e bei-tt.ejias, and have not car£
enough of them, muft not expca to reap any conMortimer,
fiderabie advantage by them.

Swift.

Bedswe'rver. n. f [from bed and
Jhverve.] One that is falfe to the bed

r.iJ

cafe, or box, in which bees are kept.

Bee-master, n.f. [from bee Siud merjler.]
One that keeps bees.

Fleas breed principally of ftraw or mars, where
there hath been a little moiilure ; or the chamber

my ttjauker, upon

which I was rufiicatcd for ever.

Mortimer,

Bee-kive. n.f. [from bee a.ndhi've.] The

foft.

the beds, and clean the

chambers.

bedfeilow ;

A convenient and necetlary plaee ought to be
made choice of for your apiary, or bie-gardejt.

Be'dstraw. n.f. [from bed'a.ndjiraiu.'\
The draw laid under a bed to make it

[ftom hd zn^ n:ake.'\

was deeply in love with

accommodate us with a hedJJuJT.

Miller.

A place to fet hives cf bees in,

Btfi "j'jrtJ'.rCi Eviry i?/-/7 in hh Humcur.

An

B£'i>L AMITE, n. f. [from bedlam.^
inhabitant of Bedlam ; a madman.

make

Milieu.

The Jilvcr eel, in Alining \olumes roll'd
The yeilow carp, in fcales i.:.';',y>'<: with gold. Pipe.

[frora the noun.] Belonging to a madhoufe ; fit for a madhoufe.
The count.)* gives mc procf and precedent
Of heJhm beggar?, who w':h rearing voices

I

A fpecies of fool-ftones.

Bee-garden, n.f. [from i^^^and^ara'TO.]

Our plenteous llreams a varicus race fupply :

Be'dlam. fl«)'

to

BiiK-EATE It.

j

Al'tiwi itfelf to anything.

». /.

guage.

Shakejpsare.

Btdroji'd with binod of Gorgon.

L?t 's follow the o!d car!, and get the hedlnvi

To Jead him wheje he w-juld j his roguifli madnefs

it is

Hymen's torch b"^ lig'.ired.

Nut fo thick fwarm'd once the foil

of Bedlam.

Be'd'Jaker.

fignification is only ufed in familar lan-

to fpeckle.

a lunatick, and inhabitant

;

An induftriousandcarehilperfon, Thw

2.

n.f. [from ^^i? and fai.] A
ToBedro'p. nj.a. [from be unddrcp.] To
bird that feeds upon bees.
be][prinkle j to mark with fpots or drops
Bee-flower. n.f. [from ^f^ and ^iiw^-.]
Till

hofpital for the mad and Juiiacick.]

A niadhoufe

The

VVhcfe vrv.s are, tii3C no ieclr]U ^liail fcepa'd

London, converted afcenvards into an
1.

BEE

BEE

BE'DLAM. n.f. [corrupted from BetlhLcm, ths

]

;

:

. prince Pa:i», noui^hl but heavenly bufinefs
That vulgar! give the boldeil titles to. Skiik,f(cjyt.
TLcmfon.
S''.'..-!u rub my bcdmats Qi my comt^apy. Shairfp,
Be'dtime. »-/; [from ^^i< and //«(•.] The Be'echen. etdj. [biiceni;, Saxr.] ConfifrBe'dmouldinc.
[from/c(/
hoarofrell; fleeping-time.
?»•./•
belonging of the wood of the beech
Whit mufKf, what dances ihall we have.
Bt'DDIKG MOULDING. 5 and «!>.(/(/.] A
ing to the beedv.
To
wejr
away
this long age of three hour:>,
term ufed by workmen, to fignify tliofe
With diligence he'll ferve us when we dine,
Bet«n:en our afttr-fupper and btJiimef
Shatifp
members in the cornice, which are placour wine. Drydcn,
And in plain bttcbcn veffels
A ftcr evening repails, tili bedtime, their thoughts
A

'

;

fill

ed below the coronet.
Builder's DiJi.
Ee'di-ost. n.f. [frora ted znA poft.'\ 'the
poll at the corner of the bed, which
fupports the canopy
1

will be beft

gion.

[from be and dung.']
To cover, cr manure with dung.
To Bedu'st. -v. a. [from be and aW/?.]
To fpiinkle with duft.
Bb'dward. adv. [from bed and luard.'l

Be'dpresser. n.f. [from ied and/nyi.]

A heavy lazy fellow.
This finjuinecowjrd, this ie/J^ir^^r, thii horfcback breaker, this huge hill of ftelh. Sbairjfiare.

gle,^

-v. a. [

from

i^t'

*T:s /hrinking, not clofr weaving, that Iiath thus
In mind and body both bid-.vjrfrd us.
Dime.

'\

moiilure,

to faturate with

t

Work done
'X be

-

'

.

.i:ipS.

force have lain ieiri<< twenty
8.

•.

cars,

,

;

f.m.

mental parts,

They call this bcdtoork, rr.s-sp'ry, dofctwar. Siak.
BEE. n.f. [beo, Saxon.]
I. The animal that makes honey, remarkable for its induHry and art.

Hanging •)id ir.rn, w:.o were i;rfr;</,bccaufe tliry
would noloifcoverwherc their money v«i5. Ctartti'u
Infirm r^rf>n«, when they come to be fo * -ak

Dill and

O:" their obfervaiiC toll, the enemy's wtight

DoKlte,

M to be fixed to their beds, hold out many years

work performed

Why this hath not a finger's dignity.

K:^w, as a myriad

,

bed ;

Thi^ da contrive how many handi (hall ftrlke,
VViiei fiiLiefs call them on, and know, by meafure

Be'drid. flr^'. [from ^ir</ and nVir.] Confined to the bed by age or ficknefs.

I

in

without toil of the hands.

Sbakffpeare.

-o

bade them.
2.

!

So work the hcncy ire<;t.
Creatures that» by a ruling nature, teach
The art ct'^order to a peopled kingdom. Sbakejp.
From the Moor'rtj camp
There has been heard a diAant humming nolfe,
tijce^eei diflurf)'t;, andarmiiigin theirhivcs. Dryd.
'A company of poor infedts, whereof f>r>ie ure
ten, delighted witli Bowers, and their fwectncfs';
others beetles', delighted witt> other Tiimds, Lveke,

Siv'ft,

An OX, bull, cr cow, confidered as fit
In this fenfe it has the plural

for footl.

the fingular is feldonx found.
A pound of man's flefli

Is not io eftlpiable or profitable.

As flifli of niuttons, i^M'cj, orgoats. Sbakcfpeare,.
Alcinous flew twelve fliecp, eight white-tooth'd
Avine,

Two crook-haunch'd Ineves,

Cbapmati,

There was net any captain, but had credit for
more viCluals than we fpent there and yet they
j

had of me fifty becvtt among them. Sir Walt. K.il,

Br/nwoRK. n.f. [from bed and tvori.]

Par olV from the mloJ of Bolir.jfr' ke
It i:,.fucli crimf'jn temped inouM tsdier.sh
lti« frcih green lap of fair king Richard's land.

Kor\vay, uncle of young i'ortiubrji,
-'ho, impotent ar.d i/alrid, fc.ucely hears
O: this hit nephew's purpofe.
ihakifycarr.
Via he not bcJriJt an;!, 3i;ain, d es iwi.iinji.
But what be did being chiidilii >
Sbuhjfta.e,

Shakefpejre.

The fat of roafted beef falling on birds, will

beeves ;

to ft ant.

Suift.

y'c BEBRE'NCH.i'.ff, [frora he a.n^ drench.

to foak j

What fay ycu to- a piece of bef and muftard ?

In heart

them, in walking, to reach the dirt.

;

food.

a.

As iriv'rry as when our nuptial day v.is done,
And tapers burnt to iedtvard.
Sltifejpeare.
To Eedwa'rf. v. a. [from ^*and dnvarf.'\
To make little ; to hinder in growth ;

To foil the clothes, by fitffering

To drench

a>.

Toward bed.

and drag-

Poor Patty CK-unr, nn more be iczn
Beiiraggled in my walks fo green.

BEEF, n.f [birttf, French.]
1. The flefli cf black cattle prepared lor

B'foK his bs'.iimc, takes no reft tiiac night. Dryd.

To Bedu'ng.

a clear ii^Hi, her head leaning ti a /W/'>^, ai:other
ftanding behind, holding it llca-iy. Jf^f.-ran'i .'^ujg.

.

l\ii!tcn.

The fc-yuring drunkard, if he does not fight

came the nejt day prepared, and placed her in

To B E D R a'c o L E

taken up in the eafy grounda of reli-

On hides of becvis^ Vefore the palace gate.
Sad fpoiU of luxury

1

Pope.

the ftiiturs fate.

[from the fubflantive.] Confiding of the flefli of black cattle.

Beef,

adj.

If you a-e employed in marketing, db not accept
of a treat of a />r^"fteak, and a pot of ale, from

the butcher.

Beef-eater,

Sivift,

n.

f [from beef

\r\d.

eat,

commons is beef when on
waiting. Mr. Steevens derives it thus':
Bef-eater may come frora bcaufeticr, onewho attends at the fuleboard, which was
anciently placed in a beaufct. The bubecaiife the

fincfs of the be
is

ftill,

f-caters was, and perhaps,

to attend the

king

at meals.]

A yeoman of the guard.
Beef-v/ittei). a.lj. [from A-.?/" and if;'/
Dull ; llupid ; heavy-headed.
Jiief willed ;urd»

SL:/kefptare.

.

'

;

;

.

.

BEE

B E F

B E F

Who nuill,go

Bb'kmoi.. •./ This word I h»ve found Be'etlsstock. «. /. [from iett le znd
^ock.] The handle of a beetle.
only in the example, and knov*' nothing
1
,
.
.,„,
of the etymology, unlcf:. it be a corrup- Be'etrave.
_ ,
> n.f. A plant.
tion of iy moduli, from iy and modulus, Be etradish. j
a note ; that is, a note out of the regu- Beeves, w./. [The plural of beef.] Black

IrKK. [beon, Saxon.] The fartlcl/iU fre.
teriteofTe Be.
Enough that virtue fill'd the fpice between,
Prov*d by the ends of being to have irrts.

Ps/^f,

Beer. >i. /. [iir, Welfli.] Liquor made
of malt and hops. It is diftiiiguifticd
from ale, either by being older or fmaller.
Here 's a pot of good double iter, neighbour ;

bat/) befallen.']

!

4.

eyes, both are more when

Batoa.

They reprefent our poet betwixt a farmer and •
courtier, when he drcft hirafelf in his beft baiit,

The fpecies are, i. The common white bett.
The common green beet. 3. The common
xed beet. 4. The turnip-rooted red beet. 5. The
great red beet. 6. The yellow beet. y. The Swifs
or Chard beet.

BE'ETLE. »./. [byrel, Saxon.]

An infeft diftinguifhed by having hard

choice.

The world was all before them, where to chufe
Their place of reft, and Providence their guide.
MHrtn,
Give us this evening ; thou haft morn and night.

3.

his wings.

Sbakeffeare.

of fight, and too provident
for that which concerned their own intcreft; but
as blind as beetles in forcfceing this great and com-

A mong th' angelick pow'rs.

4. It is ufed fometimes with to before the
perfon to whom any thing happens : this

Kntlles's Hiflory ofthe Turku

A grot there was with hoary mofs o'ergrown,
The dafping ivies up the ruins creep,

And there the bat and drowfy beetle deep.

Garth.

The butterflies and beetles arc fuch numerous
1

believe, in our own native country

is rare.

Some great mifchicf hath befallen
FaraJife Loft.
To that meek man.
be the
5. To befall of. To become of; to
ftate or condition of: a phrafe little ufed.

Ray.

A heavy mallet, or wooden hammer,
which wedges are driven, and
pavements rammed.
if 1 do, fillip mc with a three man beetle. Shak.
with

Sbakeffteare.

!

"When, by tlie help of wedges and btetles, an
image is cleft out of the trunk of feme well-grown

Befits thee, witii him leaijucd ;

—

thjfelf as falfe.

Faradijc Loft.

tree ; yet, after all tltc (kill of artificers to fet forth

bring you wiiere (he fits.
Clad in fplcndour, as befts
I will

fuch a divine block, it cannot one moment fecure
Ufelf from being eaten by worms, or defiled by
StiUingfieet.
birds, or cut in pieces by axes.

Particular advantages it has before all the books

which have appeared before it in this kind.

We think poverty to be infinitely defirable before

fucceflion.

Befo're. adv.
Sooner than ; earlier in time.
Hcav'niy born.
Before the hills appear'd, or fountain flow'd,
Thou with eternal wifdom didd converfe. Milton,
Befirc two months their orb with light adorn,

To

South.

3.

In time part.
Such a plenteous crop they bore

Of pureft and well winiiow'd grain.

faid,

4.

1

Their common praiSice was to look no further

A wharcfon, beitltttadtd, flap-ear'd knave.
Sbakeffeare.

Farther onward in place.
before them than the next line ; whence it will follow that they can drive to no certain point. Dryd.

a wooden beetle.
2.

In the front of; not behind.

been hefirt
llah,

to

5.

touching the qucftion beforegoing.

Previoufly to ; in order to.

"Beetlehe'aded. adj. [from beetle and Befo're. pref. [bipopan. Sax.]
head. ] Loggerheaded ; wooden headed j
having a head ftupid, like the head of

Dryden,

As Britain never knew before.
In fome time lately paft.
I (hall rcfume fomewhat which hath

Jeroboam thought policy the beft piety, though
more htfo;led; the nature of fin being
South.

Diyden.

If heav'n allow me life, I will return.

2.

not only to defile, but to infatuate.

Prior to ; nearer to any thing ; as,
the eldeft fon is before the younger in

12. Superiour to ; as, he is before his competitors both in right and power.

in nothing

Enquire for the iwr/e-Z/roiuV critic, £fir. Swift.

Taylor.

the torments of covetoufn -.fs.
1 1

infatuate; to fool; to deprive of underftanding ; to lead into errour.
Men ityoc/themlclvcs infinitely, when, by venting a few fighs, they will needs perfuadc thcmfclves that they have repented.

Hooker.

reft.

Her deity.
Thou, what befits the new lord mayor.
Dryden.
Art anxioufiy Inquifitive to know.

What if it tempt you tow'rd the (iood, my lord ?
Or to the dreadful fummit of the clifi",
That beala o'er his bafe into the fea. Sbakiffeare.
Or. where th: hawk
High in the bntUng cliff his airy builds. Thmfm.
Beetlebro'wed. adj. [from beetle and
^ro-w.] Having prominent brows.

Dryd,

10. In preference to.
We (hould not prefume to determine which
fliould be the fitted, till vtc fee he hath chofea
fome one ; which one we may then boldly fay to
be the fitted, becaufe he hath Uken it before the

1.

To Befo'ol. v. a. [from be and fool.]

jut out ; to hang over.

Hurried by fate, he cries, and borne before
furious wind, we leave the faithful fliorc. Dryd,

Preceding in time.

9.

Miltcn.

To Be'etle, "v. n. [from the noun.] To

fceming as burdened

Shakcffeare.

7'oBEFi'r. v. a. [from ^* and//.] To
fuit ; to be fuitable to ; to become.
Blind is his love, and bed brftt the dark. Shak.
that name beft
Out of my fight, thou fcrpent

!

Was carried with more fpeed before the wind.

Do me the favour to dilate at full
What hath befall'n s/them, and thee, till now.

alone, the fpecies of each kind may amount to on?

hundred and fifty, or more.

Her part, poor foul

With leffcr weight, but not with lefler woe,

A

Milton.

Tiltotjen,

By the impulfe of fomething behind.

8.

Shak.

I have reveal'd
This difcord which befell, and was in heav'n

In corporal fuflf'rance finds a pang as great.

mon danger.

;

Life and death, profperity and dcftruCtion,

arc before us.

to come to pafs.

Let's reafon with the worft that may befall.

The poor beci/e, that we tread upon.

ftiarp

fcl.

But fincc th' affairs of men are ftill uncertain.

They are as fliards, and he their beetle. Shakeff.

Others come

To happen

And all the year, before thee for delight. Dryden.
He hath put us in the hands of our own coun-

Tilhtfan.

this world.

under which he folds

As when a giant dies.

In the power of: noting the right of

7.

To happen to, as good or neutral.
Bion alked an envious man, that was very fad,
what harm had befallen unto him, or what good
Baeon.
had befallen unto another man ?
No man can certainly concludt God's love or
hatred to any pcrfon, from what befalls him in

Miller.

cafes or iheaths,

In fight of.

didion.

Addifm.

faces.

2.

Dryden,

to appear before his patron.

they deferved it, but becaufe the people love new

a.

we come before many.

If a fuit be begun before an archdeacon, thfl
ordinary may litenlc the fuit to an higher court.

which befell his countrymen.
Mdifin.
This difgrace has befallen them, not becaufe

plant.

2.

!

leled calamities,

See Biestings,

Beet. «. /. [beta, Lat.] The name of a

tribes, that

!

Shak,

ufed generally of ill.

Saviour's prophecy of the dcftruflion of Jerufalem, drew his congregation out of thcle unparal-

Pope.

1.

Great queen of gathering-clouds.
See we fall befive thee
Vryden.
Hroftrate we ad»re thee
The Alps and Pyreiiean fink before him. Mdif.
In the prefence of: noting refpeft.
We fee that blufhing, ar.J calling down of the

Other doubt poirellcs me, left harm
Milton.
Befall thee, fcver'd from roc.
This venerable perfon, who probably heard our

:

The word that may befall me in this cafe.

Flow, Wiilfted flow, like thine infpiter, hcer ;
Tho' ftale, not ripe ; tlio' thin, yet never clear
So fwcetly mawkifli, and fo fmoothly dull
Heady, not ftrong ; and foaming, tho' not full.

Be'estincs.

Milti».

In the prefence of: noting authority or
conquefl.

5.

Let me know

Try clarifying with almond* in new ken; Baccn.

.

Behind them, while the obdurate king purfues.

Bf-tt the eyes of both our armies here.
Stakejjpeare,
Let us not wrangle.
6. Under the cognizance of : noting jurif-

u To happen to

Shakcj'ftare.

'drink.

To guide tliern in their journey, and remove

Miltan.
From a fat meadow ground.
Others make good the paucity of their breed

with the length and duration of their days j whereof there want not examples in animals uniparous,
firft, in bifulcous or cloven-lioofed, as camels j
and teems, whereof there is above a million annually flain in England. Bntvn's Viitgiir Errcun.
Beeves, at his touch, at once to jelly turn,
And the huge boar is Ihrunk into an urn. Pofe.
7*0 Befa'll. t;. n. [from/all. It be/ell, it

and pillar Of fir«.

By day a cloud, by night a pillar of fire.

3.

cattle ; oxen.
One way, a band feleft from forage drives
A herd of beevei, fair oxen, and fair kinc.

lar order.
There be lntcr»enient in the rife of eight, in
toaes, two ieemis, or half notes ; Co as, i! you divide the tones r(jually, .he eight is but fcven whole
Biicon,
and equal notes.

TSefare them, in a cloud

Before this elaborate treatifc can become of ufe
my country, two points are ncceffary. Swifts

To this time

;

hitherto.

The peaceful cities of th' Aufonian (horc,
Lull'd in her cafe, and undifturb'd before.

Arc aU on fire.

Dryden.

6. Already

BEG

BEG

6. Already.
Yoo tell me, mother, what I Icnew Ir/ore,

The Phrygian fleet is landed on the ftore,

[from befcre and

^
To Bege't.
v. a. begot, or begat ;

Ugotten, or kegot.

ibmetimes

with

the

obtain.

particle

•with.

Quoth Hudibras,

I

Budihrai.

Your fjul has been Ufa-chand tuith yonr body,

Which are the children of an idle brain,

me,

in

i

I

«lo<iuent fpeech

;

yet fo, that th.y w ,ich receive

2.

them, may be taught hrforcbamd the Hull of fpeak'"8-

up

Is it a

No fliare of that goes back to the begetter,

;

To favour

;

be kind to ;

them among princes.

Stahffr.
Now, if your pioU be ripe, you ue btfriendtd
With opportunity.
Dcabam.

drawn by Homer, as even
and dignity.
2.

;

S-.uift.

TO Befri KGi.v.a. [from be s.nA fringe.]

to fet

Bffrinfe the ra^li of Bedlam and Soiio.

to retain a notlenefs
jj„,^_._

To BEG. v.a. [beggeren,Germ.] To live
upon alms ; to live by afking relief of

fore the houfe.

and contemptuous term.
V/hat lubjcfls will precarious kings regard ?

I'll

A beggar fpcaks too foftly to be heard. Drydtn.
3. One who a/fumes what he does not

To Bp.c. v. a.

With

heav'n,

tj

he grave,

for

Was lib'ral to thi? pow'rs of high command. Dryd,
Rapt into future times, the bard begun,

A virgin
conceive.
Pott.
3. To enter upon exiftence ; as, the worltt
fliall

began ; the praftice began.
I am as free as Nature firft made man,
Er

Graunt.
twopence,

cheaply wipes his

I

Ui'ts up his eyes, »nd Ijaftci to l/'g^ar

more. Gay.

P«V»

Beginning from the rural gods, his hand

Shjiejfeare.

£:are,

AUiitetv.

;

Remain obfcure as in their urns.

;

the hafe laws of fervitude began.

When wild in woods the noble lavage ran. DryJl

The mifrr

He wtat to FUate, and tttggtd Jhc body.

Cov//y.

!

j

the prefcnt fpinners,

to feek by perition.

Siakeffeare.

fing of heroes and of tings :

Begin, my mufe
Of thefe no more you hear him fpeak
He now begins upon th<t Greek

They Ihall Ipr.il the clothiers wool, and beggar

tuic.

to

Thefe, rang'd and Ihow'd, (hall in their turns

Anrf beggar'd yours for ever,

cannot dig ; to big I am afitamed,

;

Exekiel,

By peace we will begin.

VV hole heavy hand hath b.iw'd you

others.

Taylor.

doing.
They began at the ancient men which were be-

One who fupplicates for any thing ; a

To Be'ocar, v. a. [from the noun.]
I. To reduce to beggary ; to impoverifli.

Pofc.

Begin the
humility,

do the firll aft, or firft part of an aft ;
to make the firft ftep from not doing to

fo

this precarious account of the original
of things,
alfume to themfelves to be men of reafon. Ti/Ar/.

Clothe fpice, line trunks, or, flutt'nng in a row,

that is part ought to feem

To commence any aftion or ftate

2.

1 liefe fliameful beggars of principles, who give

When 1 flatter, let my dirty >avej

all

as if thou had ft never begun before.

prove.

To decorate, as with fringes.

;

and

petitioner ; for which, beggar is a harfli

Addkn.

„
^
Be thou
the firft true merit to befriend
His praife is loft, who ftiys till all commend. Ptpt.
Brother-fervants mull befrund one anotiier.

but

to thee, feeing it is fo in itfelf.
n'-xt day with the fame zeal, fear, and
little

Samue/.

We fee the whole equipage of a beggar

I fliall beleech him to h'fnind himfclf.

To aflc

up the beggar from the dunghill,

lifteth

Jf it will pleafeCjefar

I.

Begin every diy to repent; not that thou Aouldft
at all defer it ;

;

.

To be h good to Cslar, as to hear me,

^

:

to perfons.

One who lives upon alms one who has
nothing but what is given him.
He raifcth up the poor out of the duft,

nance ; to (hew friendlhip to ; to benefit.

_.

;

the derivatives all prefcrve the a.]

to counte-

Siuift.

To BEGI'N. V. n. I began, or begun I
have begun, [bejmnan. Sax. from be, or
by to, and janjan, jaan, or jan, to go.}
1. To enter upon fomething new
applied

mon orthography is retained, becaufe
i.

by further mortgages, to a ftate of

^'tZ<^'y for endlels years to cone.

properly written begger ; but the com-

SMcff.

See them embarked,
And tell me if the winds and fcas bffriend them.

but reduced,

h is more

beg.

Shaitfpeare.

We muft become not only poor for the prefent,^

Dry den.

to foil ; to dirt.
to

To fay there is no vice but beggary.

Men continue the race of mankind, commonly
without the intention, and often a^iinft the confent and will, of the begetter.
Locke.

Vo Befo'ul. -v. a. [from be .ind/W.j To

make foul

Indi-

While I am a fjeggar, I will rail.
And fay there is no fm but to be rich :
And being rich, my virtue then Ihall be,

But if the fon fights well, and plunders better

Be'ccar. n.f. [from

TcBefriend. 'v.a. [from 6e and /nend.]

his delight to dwell beggarly ? and that he

Be'ccary, n.f. [from beggar.]

Is to themfelves alone, and to their heirs
:

;

As much I willj all gooti bifurtur., you,

is

was the pidure of miferabie happinefs and ricti
l"£g'"ySidney.

Samud.

to betide.
1 give confent to gn along with you
;
Recking as little whit betideth me.

it

taketh no pleafure to be worfliipped, faving only
in poor cottages ?
Hooker.

Denbam.

procreates, or begets ; the father.
For what their prowefs gain'd, the law declares

TflBEFo'RTUNE. -v.n. [from be AnA./or-

To happen to

time for ftory, when each minute

Bece'tter. »./. [from%f/.] He that

adv. [from before and
Formerly ; of old time,
Bffsrcthm in Ifrael, when a man went to enquire

tune.

ly ; defpicably ; indigently,
I'ouching God himfelf, hath he revealed, that

gence ; poverty in the utmoll degree.
On he bioujjht me into fo bare a houl'e, that It

timeJl

t

Be'cgarly. adv. [from beggar.] Mean-

Beget Wfmn
His mother Martha by his father John. Speffatcr^

B£ FORETIME,

of God, tbushe fpake.

murder

of one king and the banifliment of another, afcend
the throne ?
South.
The next town has the reputation of being extremely poor and bezgarly.
Mdi]em,
Corulbdes, by extieme paifimony, faved thirtyfour pounds out of a beggarly fellowfliip.
Siuift.

4. It is fometimes ufed with on, or upon,
before the mother.

upon
VEJirav^c.

him again ?

a thread-bare, torn cloak, an 1 gieafy hat,
could have fufpettcd that he (hould, by the

Cbejne.

Begets a thoufand dangers ?

Bacm.
before any thing is done.

What is a man's contending with infupcrable

»iith

To produce, as accidents.

3.

Shake!}.

low as Cromwell entering the parliament-houfe,

his

thirty-fevcn years.

difficulties, but the rolling of S.fyphus't
ftone
the hill, which is foon bifcrihaad to return

A beggarly account of empty boxes.

Who, that beheld fuch a bankrupt beggarly fel-

To produce, as effefts.

*''''^«-

4. In a ftate of accumulation, or foas that
more has been received than expended.

At firft ;

:

talk of dreams.

;

3. Antecedently; aforetimes.
It would be refilted by fuch as had
htfvchand

Stranger's houfe is at this time rich, and much
itfirihani; for it hath laid up revenue thefe

poor ; indigent ; in the condition of a
beggar ufed both of perfons and things.
I ever will, though he do fliake me off
To beggarly divorcement, love him dearly. SbaK

Sfenfer.

For it is done.
Sbaleffeare.
My whole intention was to beget, in the 'minds
of men, magnificent fentiments of God
and

Sir Roger ufed to bargain htforthatid, to cut off
a
quarter of a yard in any part of the bill. Arbuthmt.

refilled the general pro;fs of thegofpel.
Atierhury.

nefs ; poverty.

If to h.;ve done the thing you gave in charge,
Btget you happincfs, be happy then

Uxker.

,

When the lawyers brought extravagant bills.

/ [from beggarly.^

Be'cgarly. a^'. [ftorn beggar.] Mean;

Btgot of nothing but vain phantafy.
Shahjfearc.
WI|o hath begntten me thefe, feeing I have loft
my children, and am defolate ?
Jfaicb.
'Twas he the noble Ciaudian race begat. Dryd.
Love is beget by fancy, bred
By Ignorance, by expeflation fed,
Granville.

cs

M<iifir,.

His profeflion is to deliver precepts leeeflary to

I

to become

She (lumbers o'er the cup.
Dryjeti.
I ha»e not room for many rcfleflions ; the
lad

».

The ftate of being beggarly ; meaa-

In Jove's fwcet paradife, of day and night.

2. Previoufly ; by way of preparation, or
preliminary.

5.

;

Which do the feafonl of the year allot.

proper moral.

Be'ggarliness.

Sec To Get.]

And drunk fo deep a draught of promij'd blifs,
cited author has been trjDrtbanJ iviti

/he did He
In h;-r pavilion, cloth of gold, of tiffue,
O'er-pifturing Venus.
Shakefpeetre.

I

the father of, as children.
But firll come the hours, which we begot

am htforthani

In that already, •with your command.

It leggar'el all defcription ;

have
[bejercan, Saxon, to

To generate; to procreate

I.

For hT perfon,

B^J.

P--^''"'

a ftate of anticipation, or preoccu-

Ill

pation :

To e.xhauJl.

3.

mon ground, which both Mofes and all antiquiry

hand. ]
1.

Neceffity, of matter Ac^rj.rr'd,
Will nothing ftick our peil'ons to arraign
In ear and ear.
Shake/fearn

We

Stahffeare.

ad-v.

To deprive,

z.

have not ctgged any principles or fuprofi.
tions, for the proof of this j but taken
that com-

Thou 'rt fo far if/on,
The fwifteft wing of recompence is flow

Befo'rehand.

TcMKg.

To take any thing for granted, without
evidence or proof.

2.

V^frl. I

7. Farther onward in place.

To overtake thee.

BEG

See how tfcey ieg an alms of flattery.

4.

To luive its original.
And thus the hard and ftuhborn race of man
Front animated rock and flint began. BJackmon.
Froia

'

;

.

BEG

BEG

Tram Nimrod firft the fmge chice ^^Jii

TV Beoi'iio. V. a. I iigirt, or legirjtti ;

A mighty humeri and his gami; was man.
to commence.
5. To take rife
I

And tears ttgeii to flow.
•!>.

Drydtr..

To do the firft aft of any thing ; to
pafs from not doing to doing, by the
iirft aft.

Pofx-

'I'hcy have been awaked, by thcfe awful fcencs,

to tegin religion^

and, afteiwarJs, their virtue

tias improved itfeif into more refined principles, by

divine grace.

If^tuts.

To trace from any thing, as the trft

2.

1 he apaftle itgws our knowledge in the creaLxir.

To ie^iti nvith.

To enter upon ; to fall

to work upon.
A Irffon which requir"? fo much time to learn,

had need be ea|)y hegur. with.
GiverrmettI c/rht'Titiguc,

BeGl'NKGR. «./. [from iegin.]
X.

nal, to any thing.

Thus heaping critticon crime, and grief on grief,

To lofs of lave adjoining lofs of f.-ien.!,
meant to purge both with a third mifchief,

And, in my woe's hg-rntr, it to en<i.
Sfcrfer.
•Socrates maketh Ignatius, the bifhop cf Antioch, the fiift hcg'mncr thereof, even under the
apullles themfclves.
Hoaitr.

y\n unexperienced attempter ; one in

«.

Pritr,
His very Sate acknowledging his fears.
fhut in with a fiege ; to beleaguer
3.

to block up.
It was fo clofely hgin, before the king's marcli
into the we.1, that the council humbiy dcGrci his
Qlarcr.d'it,
majeily, that he would relieve it.
To Beci'rt. t>. a. [This is, I think, only

To feize his fons alive

;

1 have taken a lift of fev;ral hivndrcd v.'ords in
a fermon of a new ht^'tJiner, wlilch not ci:e hcarrr
could pofliblj' underrtand.
Szvift,

Beg:'nning, n./. [from ^f^/».]
t. The firtl original or caufc.
Whcreicr we plate the btfit:mng of motion,
whether fio.-n the head or the heart, the body
moves and idJi by a confcnt of all its paits. Sivij't.

The entrance into aft, or being.
In the btgmnjng Cod created the heavens and
•

Ger,fi%.

3. The ftate in which a;iy thing firfl is.

Were but my heart as naked to thy view,
Marcus would fee it bleed in his behalf. Addijin,
Never was any nation blcflVd with more frequent
iaterpofi:ions of divine providence in its helti'f.

Aticrbury.

Bm Jorfcr..
BFGLERBEG. n.f. [Turkilh.] The chief
Mod make our peace with him.
governour- of a

province

among

Vindication ; fupport.

2.

He

;

We may our end by ui:r icg\nn\vg know. Dci:b,:m.
4. The rudiments, or firft grounds or ma.

terials.
B) viewing nature, nature's handmaid, jo't,
Makes niiyhty things from fmall h.ginttitigi grow
Thus filhcs firlt to Oiipping did impart.
Their tail the rudder, and their head the prow.
DryJot.
The underftanding is palfive ; and whether or
rot it will lia\t thefe trgiimwgi, and materials of
knowledge, is not in its own power.
Lo<tt.
'.

X,. The. firft part of any tiling.
The cautes and dcGj.ns of an adlion, are the
iifir.mre i the eff-Cit of thefe caufc;, and the
d (licui lej that are nvt with in the execution of
thefe 4 figns, ar- the mi diej and the umavcilini;

» .d-rcl/Jution ot'thcle d fiitulties, are the end.
'
Encwe.
'

'

mi^ht,

in

his

ptclVnce, defy all Arcadian

knights, in the behalf of his miftrefs's beauty.

the

Sidrcy-t

Turks.
^
To Begna'w. 'V. a. [from he and^wntv,]

Left the fiend,
Or in hehtilfof man, or to invade
Vacant polllfii'in, fome new trouble raife. mit:i:
Others believe that, by the two Fortunes, were
meant profpcrity or ?ifliclion ; and produce, iff

;

to eat

away ; to corrode

;

to

nibble.
His horfe is ftark fpoiled with the ftaggers,
hegrmL-n with the bots, waid in the back, .ind
flioulder-diotten.
Shahjfeare.
The woim of confcience fill! legf^j'-.v thy foul.
Shiiheffearc's Richard \\l.

thuv belMj, an ancient monument. Addij.cr.It.::y,

To Beha've. f. a. [from be and have."]
To carry; to conduft ufed ahnoft
1.
always with the reciprocal pronoun.
:

We behaved not ciirfe'-ves diforderly amongyou.

Beco'ne. interjeSl. [only a coalition of
the words be gone."]
Go away ; hence ;

riejr.

Manifeft figns came from heaven unto thofe
2 Maeeabrrir
that behaved Ihemfehes manfully,

hafle away.
Begor.e ! the goddefs cries with ftcrn difdain,

To their wills wcdi-cd, to tlieir errours Haves,
No man like them, they think, bimf. If brbavrs.
D^rhar.

We fo live, and fo aft, as if we were fecure of

Beoo'tten. 1 verb keget.

the final

Remember that thou watt higci ofthem. £fir/ij.
The firft he met, Antiphates the brave,
But bafc bi^ottcn on a Thcban Have.

Drydtn.

To Becre'ase. -v. a. [from be and grcafe.^

To foil or dawb with unftuous or fat
matter.

To Becri'me. "V. a. [from he ^n^ grime.
See Grime and Grim.] To foil with
dirt deep imprefled ; to foil in fuch a
manner that the natural hue cannot
eafily be recovered.
Her name, that was as frcfh
As Dian's vifagc, is now ligrm'd, and black
As my owM fate.
Sviikfi^are,
To Begui'le. f a, [from ie and^«.-iV.]
1. To itnpofe upon ; to delude ; to cheat.
This 1 fay, lell any man.feouU Irgui.'e you
CJ-^tWi.
The ferpent me iegui/'d, and I did eat ! Miiici:.
Whofoever fees a man, win would have begutUd and inipofed upon him by making him

Bibavei with cares, cannot fo eafy mifs. Fa'ay £J.
With fuc'i fober and unnoted paflTun
Ha did behave his anger ere 'twas fpcnt,
As if he had but prov'd an argument. Shahfpeffre,

To Beha've. -k. ». To aft; to conduft
It is taken either in a good
one's felf
or a bad fenfe ; as, he ieljaveJ well or ill.

Beha'viour. ?/./ \irom. behave."]
1. Manner of behavingone's felf, whether
good or bad ; manners ; carriage, with
rcfpeft to propriety.

M

:pfa, curiou> in any thing but her own good
Sidney,
behavhur, followed Zclniane.

with enticing wards.

2.

He marked, in Dora's dancing, good grace and
*
Sidney,
handfome Ickaviour,

Scutu*

3.

Is wretchedneis depiiv'd that benefit.

To cud itfelf by death ? 'Tis yet fomc comfort.
When mifery could begu'ik the tyrant's rage,

External appearance with refpeft to
grace.

believe a lye, he niny truly fay, that is the man

who WfHild hft.'e ruined mc.
2. To deceive; to evade.

ifluc and event of things, however we

Atferbury,
may biba-ve surfelves.
2. It fcems formerly to have had the fenfe
of, to govern ; to fobdue ; to dii'ciplinc :
but this is not now ufed.
Rut who his limbs with labours, and his snind

.

Youth, what man's age is like to be, doth (liow

C/arendcn*

nation.

for they are they

She fled," for ever baniih'd from t'v^* train, ^^dt^ifir.
Beg o't .
1 The participle pajfiiic of the

*e earth.

:

the dcftruflion of Straftbrd j againft whom he
liad contrafled fome prejudice, in the bebulf of hU

See Begird.

Tobcgird.

printer.]

Palladius, beliaving himfelf nothing like a hgirncrf brought the honour to the Iberian fiJc-

ji.

'\

1

To

Big'ync! nor dare the hallow'd ftrcam to Itiin.

S'hh.y.
They are, to hcghnfri, an eafy and familiar
introdurtion ; a mighty augmentation of ail virtue and knowledge in fuch as are entered before,

-

Miitcr.
T" enamour.
At-home furrounded by a ferviie crowd.
Prompt to abufe, and in detraction loud ;
Abroad begirt with men, and fworJs, and fpcars ;

rudiments ; a young praftitioner.

his

[This word Skinner defrom ha\f, and interprets it, f<.r
my half; as, for my part. It fcems to
me rather corrupted from behoof, profit;
the pronunciation degenerating eafily
to behafe ; which, in imitation of other
words fo founded, was writien, by thofe
who knew not the etymology, behalf.
we fay in
Favour ; caufe favoured
behalf, but /or the fake.
He was in confidence with thofe who dcfignej
rives

Millar,
Befceching, or befu-ging.
Or ihouid ilic, conlidcnt
As iitcing queen adorn'd on bciutvs throne,
Defcend, with all her winning charms Itgirt,

To bite

He that gives the firit caufe, or origi-

1

Thofe myfteries, that fi nee the world began
Lay hid in darknefs and eternal night. SirJ.Dj-a,

And, Lentuius, begirt you Poaipcy's houfc.

tures, which leads us to the knowledge of God.

3.

Which in thefe latter times haft brought to light

a corruption of begird; perhaps by the

ground.

The participle pnfftvc of hegin,

Beha'lf. n.f.

Begird th' Almighty throne,
Poft,

.

But thou, brigiit morning ftar,- thou rifm^ 1*JIT,

pafs.

«.

Yc nympht of Solyma, iff fr tlie fong.

B E C u'k

;

Pder.

6. l"© come into aft.
Now and ihsn a figh he ftole,
T'o Beci'n.

B E H
I

To bind with a girdle.
2. To furround
to encircle ; to,entom-

D'ydm.

All higax.
All ends, in love of God and love of man.

.

1.

Judgment mull htgin at (be houli: of God.

The fong liegun from Jove.

.

have begirt, [from ^1; and^iW.]

P<iJ>i,

;

1

;

'

Gefturc ; manner of aftion, adapted to
particuhr occafions.
Well witncflinj the mpft fubmi.live behavMr
that a thralled heart could cxprefs.

Sidney.

Sh.ih/fearc.
Aid fruftrate his prnud will.
to amufe.
3. To deceive pleafmgly
Sweet, leave mc here awhile

when we acknowledge our fins, or fcek unto God
for favour, wc fall down ; bccaufe t'le gefture <!

My fpi-.it» grow dull, and fain 1 would irguh'e
Sbiihfptare,
I'he'fdo.is d.iv with flccD.
Wjih hcfc fometimes (hedoth her tini- /.^'Bi/c ;
Thcic do I y iiu her phantafy p:iffe:"s. Hir J. Di-.hs.

conllancy becomcth us bcft in the one, in the otlie.Ik^ker.
the hcba-viiur of humility.
One liian fees how much another man is a fool,
whc.i he dedicates hi. Icba^'iour to lo«. Sbairfp

;

;

When we make prol'efiion of our faith, v.e fland {

;

;

.

B E H

ichavKur then viftne.

He who

advil'eth

iievoted to the Mufa,

:

nuas named.

Acomatcs hafted with harquebufiers, which Ite
had caufed his horfemen to take bebtrtd them upon

the philofopher, altogether
fe netimes to offer facrifice

their horfcs.

Knollei.

On the back part

I.

Conduft; general praftlce ; courfe of

;

not before.

She came in the prefs behind, and touched him.

Mark.

life.

To him, who hath a profpeft of the ftate that
attends men after this life, depending on their
hihaviour here, the meafurei of good and evil are

changed.

6.

Towards the back.

3.

The Benjamites looked behind them,
4. Following another.

Loch.

phrafe, noting fuch a (late as requires
great caution ; a ftate in whicli a failure
in behai'iour will have bad confequences.
Tyrants therafelves ueufos their btiavi'Mr to »
fuperiour power.
L'EUrange.
To Behe'ad. v. a. [trom be and heaJ.']

To deprive of the head; to kill fay cut'ting off the head.
His bihcadiitg he undenvcnt with all chriSian
augnanimity.
ClarndoK.
On each fide they fly,
>y chains connext, and, with dcHmdtive fweep.
Behead whole troops at once.
Phili^t.
Mary, queen of Siots, was behtaJed in the reign

of qu^n Elizabeth,

5. Remaining after the departure of fome-

thing elfe.

He left tebind him myfelf and a fiflfcr, both born
in one hour.

Siakejfeere.
Piety and virtue are not only delightful for the

I

prefcnt, but

they have peace and contentment

behind them.

T^illatfon.

_

Remaining after the death of thofe

6.

What he gave me to pub'.ifli, was but a fmall
part of what he left behind him.
Pupe.
7. At a dillance from fomething going be-

fore.

Such is the fwiftnefs of your mind,
That, like the earth's, it leaves out fenfe behind.

All hail

!

ye Tirgin daughters of the main

!

Pi>pe.

!

Bk'hemoth. »./. ^^^^OTo//;i, in Hebrew,
fignifies

Dryden.

Inferiour to another ; having the polleriour place with regard to excellence.
After the overthrow of this lirll houfe of God,
a fecond wa« ercQed but with Co great odds, that
they wept, which beheld how moch this latter
came behind it.
Hcoker.
9. On the other fide of fomething.
8.

Yc dreams, beyond my hopes beheld again

beafts in general, particularly

the larger kind, fit for fervice. But Job
{peaks of an animal behemoth, and dekribes its properties. Bochart has taken
much care to make it the hippopotamus,
Sanilius thinks it is an
or river-horfe.
ox. The Fathers fuppofc the devil to be
meant by it. But we agree with the generality of interpreters, that

elephant.

it

;

From light rctir'd behind his daughter's bed.

remaining.

We

cannot be furt that we have all the particulars before us ; and thai; there is no evidence
bahird, and.yet unfcen, which may cart the proba-

the
Calmet.

bility on the othM fide.

2,

1

Sehemstb rears his hrad.

I

left

my money behind, or

Be'hen. 7 ». yi Valerian root?. Alio a
behind me.
Bek.
.5 fruit refembling the tamarifk, Behi'ndhand. adv. [from behind and
1.

Her tender youth had obediently lived un^lcr her
parents b.h.Jli, without framing, out of her own
w?Il, the forcchoofing of any tiling.
Sidney.

tradefman cannot live upon his labour.

T\iat hii ielefi they feat'd as a proud t) rant's law.
2.
'

In hi; grcar njmi thus hii bthejl io tcil. Fm^fax.

Ml'tm.

in hcav'n God ever WeO^ and hi^ diyinc
Behrfti ob'y, wor.hird to be obey il

I

;

iiirCuyon, mindful of his vow yplight,
l*p rofe fr'ioi drowfy couch, and him adJreft
Vfnto the journey which he had ithigbl, FairJ
entrurt ; to commit.
2.
TI
ou, huufc that glift'reth bright,
.
W}ir
jre to thy hanJ btli'i/l

By .
V»i.. f.
•

^

,.

.Not upon eqijal terms, with regard to
forwardnefs. In thii fenfe, it is followed

SfefJatir.

Mil'on.

7t Beiit'cHT. V. a. pret. bebct, part, bthi^ht, [from haran, to promifc, Sax.]
tliis word is obfolete.
1. To proraifc

To

l,o,ke.

Confider, whether it is not better to be half a
year hthindhand ii-iih the fa(hionabIc part of the
world, than to {Iraiti beyond his circuml^ancei.

On high Ltl'fli his angels to and fro

Jjirj i^K.-.T,

3.

^hake/peart yXt% it as an adje^i'ue, but
licenttouny, for backward ; tardy.

And thefe thy oftiies,
So rarely kind, are a& interpreters
Of my beHndkanJ Clic\e.DCh.

It

very

corruptly written be/jolding,'\
Obliged ; bound in gratitude with the

is

particle to.
Horns, which fuch as you are fain to be heholden
to

your wives for.

Shakefpeare,

Little are we beholden to your love,

And little look'd for at your helping hands. Shai,
1 found you next, in refpeCt of bond, both of
near alliance, and particularly of communication ift
ft'udics : wherein 1 mult acknowledge myfelf beholden tc you.
Bacon.
I think myfelf mightily beholden to you for the
rcprchenfion you then gave us.
Addijor*
We, who fee men under the awe of juftice, cannot conceive what favage creatures they would be
without it ; and how much beholden w- arc to that
wife contrivante.
Atterbury.

Beho'lder. m. /. [from
tator ;

behold.']
Speche that looks upon any thing.
Was this the face,

That, like the fun, did m>\!.e beholJen wi.ik ? Shak»
Thefe beafts among,
Beholders rude, and fliallo.v to difcern
Half wh.1t in tlicc is fair, one man except.

Who fees thee ?

Mihols,

Things of wonder give no lefs delight
To the wife Maker's than ieholjrr'f, fight. Denharn.

The juftlint^ chiefs in ruje encOu:ner> join.
Each fair beholder trembling for her knight.
Gran'uille,

The charitable foundations, in the chuich of
Rime, exceed all the demands of charity an^
j

raife envy, rather than

of beholders.

»».]

.

companion, in the. bre:»ftA
Aaerhary.

adj. [corrupted from behild'

Obliged.

See Beholden.

Beho'lding. n.y; Obligation.
Love to virtue, and not
holdings, hath expreiied this

to

any particular he*

my teftimony. CareiSim

Beho'ldincness. n. f. [from beholding-,
millaken for beholden.]
The ftate of
being obliged.
The king invited us to his court, fo a> I moil
acknowledge a beholdingnejs unto him.

Sidney,
In this my debt 1 feem'd loth to confefs,

Ifi

Donne.

that I fhunn'd beboldingnefs.

BEHo'oF.«.y; [itoia behoo've ."] That which
behooves ; that which is advantageous ;
profit ;

advantage.

Hit majcrty may alter any thing of thofe law?,
for her o\\n behoof, and for the good of the people,

Sfenjcr,

beheld, or beholden, [behealban, Saxon.]

to fee ; to look upon : to
;
behold is -to /fir, in an emphatical or in-

tenfiv* fciife.

[gehouden,

No rnenn tecompenca it brings
Shaicffiare.

To BEHOXD. 'i:a. pret. I IMd, I have

To view

adj.

particip.

Dutch ; that is, held in obligation.

by luith,

To vHir oft thofe happy tribi-s.
((•^ij'ifnt.

In a ftate in which rent or profit, or
any advantage, is anticipated, fo that
to be received, or more performed, than the natural or juft proportion.
Your trade would fuffcr, if your being behindhand has made the natural ufe fo high, that your

Such joy he had their (lubborn hearts to quell,

I'iK'l

Beho'lden.

lefs is

And llurJy touragr tame v/ith dreadful awe,
Sferj'cr.

1

Be ho'l D I N G

h.^nd.']

;

I, m^iTengcr from cverlaftlng Jove,

Behold I 1 am with thee, and will keep thee. Gen,
When out of hope, beheld her not far off.
Such as 1 favv her in my dream, adorn'd
With what all earth or heaven could bellow,
To make her amiable.
Mihcn.

Lieke.

Moft of the former fenfes may become
adverbial, by fuppreffing the accufati've
cafe ; as,

Tlmmfin.

from which perfumers extraft an oil. Di^.
Behe'st. »./. [from be and he^ ; hapj-,
^axon.] Command ; precept mandate.

:

He, tor approaching flcep, compos'd his head, Drjd,

Behi'nd. adv.
Out of fight ; not yet produced to view
1

is

Behold now hthemth, which I made with. thee;
he eatcch grafs as an ox.
J^b,
Behold
in plaited mail

Buho'ld. interje3. [from the verb.] Seej
lo a word by which attention is excited,

:

to

whom It belonged.

AddtJ^^n*-

watered, while their heads
were deprelfed, they were conceived by the fpodlatofs to be one animal.
Browne^ s Vulgar Et-rcun*
Man looks aloft, and, with ereiled eyes.
Beholds his own hereditary (kies.
Dryden*
At this the former tale again he told,
With thund'ring tone, and dreadful tobehsld. DryJ.
The Saviour comes, by ancient bards foretold.
Hear him ye deaf, and all yc blind beheld ! Pope.

or admiration noted.
Samuel.

Iihe'ld. participle pajfi-vt from heholel
which fee.

yudges.

Her hulbaud went with her, weeping behind her.

A familiar

To be upcn one's beha=vloar.

San of man, lehsld with thine eyes, and hear
with tliine ears.
Ezeiief,
When Theflalians on horfeback were beheld afxr
off, while their horfes

mod part, rather BEHi'ND./rif/. [hmSan, Saxon.]
I. At the back of another.
Bacsn.

to the altars of the Graces, thought knowledge
imperfeft without bcha'ukur*
JVotUn.

5.

Perhaps to call j to name hi^lt being
often put, in old authors, for named, or

3.

Elegance of manners ; gracefulnefs.
The beautiful prove accompli/hed, but not of
great fpirit ; and ftudy, for the

E E H

B E H

And he cliinged his hchavhar before theni) anJ
feigned himfcit mad in their hands.
i Samuel*
4.

)

To your behoof: if 1 that region loft.
All uIurpat;on tlicnce cxjieltM, reduce

To her original da knefs, and your fway, %tiltom
Wc.t thou fome ftar, which from the ruin'd roof

Of (hik'd Olympus by mii'chance Jidft fall
Which careful Jove, in nature's true behoof,
Mili-ii.
T*ok *f, and in tit place did n\n'\i-jt.

Z

Sccaufe

'

; ;:

,

Bccaufe it wis for the ttbecf of the in'unal, that,

3.

Ofon any fuddcn acciilent, it might be awakcnc<',
there wctc no Ihuts or ftopplcs made fur thu

a

To be fit

dity.']

;

to

be meet

either with refpeft to duty, neceffity, or

convenience. It
fonally with it.

is

Far better examination of their quality, :t it-

Hooker.

He did fo prudently temper his paflioni, as tiiat

!

pofe it hefo ; or of permifiion, let it hefo.
My gracious duke,
Be't fo (he will not here, before your grace,
Confent to marry with Demetrius,
I beg the ancient privilege of Athens.
Shakejp.

'

Ti Bela'bour. 'V. a, [from be and labour.'] To beat j to thump
a word in
:

rone of them made him wanting in the offices oj
life, which « bihswiJ or became him to perform.

And thinks that Agamemnon feels the knocks.
Drydin,

He fees virago Nell belabour.
With his own ftaff, his peaceful neighbour. Swift.

loroeWliat antiquated.

Madam, wc have cuU'd fuch neceffaries
As are tchicveful for our (late to-morrow. Sbak.
it may be moil hebaoveful for princes, in matters

of grace, to tranfa<3 the fame publickly :

as, to belace a rope.

life,

I.

n.f.

Belated, feems on watch to lie.

""•
Yet is not Ood the author of her ill,
Tho' author of her being, and being there.
There is none but he,
WhoTe beiiij( J do fear 1 and under him

Hooker.

as,

to "jvaylaj, to lie in wait, to lay wait for.]
to Hop the paflage.

The fpeedy hnrfe all pall'agrs behy.
And fpur their fmoaking deeds to crofs their way.
2.

To place in ambufh.
'Gainilfiich ftrongcaftlcsncedeth greater might.

Than thofcfmali forces yc were wont bilay. Sfenfer.
TijBelav a rope, [a fea term.] To fplice ;
to mend a rope, by laying one end over

Da-vies.

another.

To BELCH.

My genius is rebuked.

Hhakeff. Macbttb.
Thee, Farhcr, firft they fung, cmnipotejit.

Immutable, immortal) infinite,
Pteinal king
Tiiee, Author of all btir.g,
Kountain of light
Miliin'i Parettlifc L'fl.
Merciful and gracious, thou gaveft us being,
tai.m^. us from nothing to be an excellent creation.
Taylor's Guide to Devotion.
Copfider every thing as not yet i;i hcmg; then
exami9e, if it mull n^eJi have been at all,'or what
otb-T ways it miijht have been.
Bentlcy.

I .

<v.

n.

[bealcan, Saxon.]

To ejcdl the wind from the ftomach

belebingi, and diltenfions of the bowels.

A particular llatc or condition.

Arbtttbnot en Aliments.

To iffue out, as by eruftation.
The witers boil, and, belching from below.
Black fands as from a forceful engine throw. Dryd.
A triple pile of plumes his crcft adorn'd,
On which with belching flames Chimzra burn'd.
Dryden.

Tbof« happy fpirits which, ordaln'd by fate.
'
For fiture iejn^and new bidies wait.
Drjicn.

V4 Belch. i/. a. To throw out from the
ftomach;

to ejetl from any hollow place.

Heav'n from all creatures hides the b.iok of fate

It is a word implying coarfenefs, hate-

Fiom b utcs ivhat men, from men what fjirits
know
Or wdo could fufier being h«(C below ?
fnfe.
At now your own, our beirgs were of old,

fulnefs, or horrour.
They are all but Komachs, and we all but food
They eat us hungerly, and, wbiu they're full,
Thcv irlii us.
Sbakefi-ejre.

j

Aad obc« latios'd iji vioitua'i bcau;cov aoulJ,
P»pf.

To BELE'AGUER.' v. a. [beleggercn',
Dutch.] To befiege ; to block up a
place ; to lie before a town.
Their bufincfa, which they carry on, is the geeoncarnmcnt of the Trojan camp, then beleaguered by Turnus and the Latins. Dryd. Dufref,
Againft bekaguer'd heav'n the giants move :
Hills pil'd cm hills, on mountains mountains lie,

;

Tlic bittcrneft ef it I aow htld (torn my heart.
^hakrjpetirt.

'

To oiake their mad approaches to the (ky. Dryden,

B

F.

e'a G i; E R E R .

H. f.

[from beleagiier.]

One that befieges a place.
•7e

_

Bbi.es'. i;. a. [a term in navigation.]
To place in a direftion unfuitable to the
wind.

Belemni'tes.

n.f. [from |5f'x©-, a dart
or arrow, becaufe of its refemblance to
the point of an arrow.]
Arrowhead,
or finger-ftone, of a whitiili and fometimes a gold colour.

Belflo'wer. n.f. [from bell zndfoiver,
becaufe of the (hape of its flower ; in
Latin campanula.] A plant.
There is a vart number of the fpecies of thi»
I.

The

pyramidal belfvwer.

tallcft

The blue peach-leaved belflowcr.

i.

The white

3.

peach-leaved brlfl-Kaer. 4. Gitieabelfiomer, with
oblong leaves and flowers ; commonly called Canterbury bills.

I

^.

Milton,

Saucy an4 overbold >
Shakeffeares Macbeth.
The refty fieve wagg'd ne'er the more j
I weep for woe, the telly beldam fwore.
Dryden

plant.
;

to erurt.
The (ymptoms are, a four fmell in their faeces,

!

%,

A hag.

neral

DfyJen.

heing, and their continuance to be that which they

When beldam Nature in her cradle was.

Sivift.

To Bela'y. -v. a. [from be and lay,
;

Dennis.

:

2.

Fairy elves,

To block up

porters would no longer be drunk

An old woman generally a term of
contempt, marking the laft degree of
old age, with all its faults and miferies.
Then fing of fecret things that came to pafs.

1.

^

Whofe midnight revels, by a foreft fide.
Or fountain, foroe belated peafant ices,
Or dreams he fees.
Milton" s Paradife Loft.
Or near FIcetditch's oozy brinks.

1

;

Be ldam. n.f. [belle dame, j^hich, in old
French, fignified probably an old woman, as bale age, old age.]

nighted ; out of doors late at night.

[from ^e.]

Exiftencc : oppofed to nonentity.
Of him all things have both received their firft

A fudden reformation would follow, among all

Bela'ted. adj. [from be and late.] Be-

look upon themfelves as be'mg on their paflage
through this.
Atlerbury.

Be'ing.

Fairy

confort ; paramour : obfolete.
Lo, lo, how brave (he decks her bounteous bowV
With filken curtains, and gold coverlets.
Therein tolhroud herfumptuousfc/atuoor. F<':ry^

Bb'inc. particip. [from be."]
in another

A cant terra for malt liquor.

2.

—Have I not rcalon, beldams, as you are.

lant ;

to promife.]

Swift,

Belc». n.f. [from the verb.]
1
The sft of eruftation.

Why, how now, Hecat ? you look angerly,^

To the fair Critias, his dearell belamie.

Be ho't. [preterite, as it feems, oibehigbt,

who have their hope

When

I an am'rous kifs defign'd,
I belcb'd an hurricane of wind.

Be'lamoor. n.f. [bel amour, Fr.] Gal-

Spenfer.

Thrlfc,

And human fle(h,bis indigeftcd food. Popi'sOdylK

Wife Socrates

Clarer.d'jn.

With (harp intended fting fo rude him fmote.
That t) the earth him drove as ftrickcn dead,
Ne living wight would have him life icier. Fairy Q^

blood.

Pour'd out his life, and laft philofophy.

fo

Profitably ; ufefully.
Te:l us of more weighty di Hikes than thefe, and
that may more hehotvefu/lj import the reformition.

Dryden.

There belcb'd the mingled Oreams of wind and

Z);V?.

Be'lamie. u.f. [belamie, Fr.] Afriend;
an intimate. This word is out of ufe.

matters of judgment, punifhinent, and cenfure, that the fame be tranfafted
pr^va^eiy.

And, fat with acorns, bcleb'd their windy food.

ToBela'ce. v. a. [afea terra.] Tofaften

it is as requifite, in

Beho'cvefully. adv. [ from behooveful, ]

Milton,

Rough as their favage lords who rang'd the wood.

with belib.

Ajax belabours there an harmlcfs ox.

This word is

It is VC.7 behooveful in this country of Ireland,

Far Into chaos, fincc the fifoij pafs'd thniugh.

forts of people

Oreftcs runs from fancy'd furies here j

Beho'oveful. adj. [from behoof. ] Ufefu!

where there are wade dcferts full of grafs, that the
fame (houM be eaten down.
Sfenjer.
Laws are many times full of impcrfcdlions ;
and that which is fuppofed beboivefvl unto men,
proveth oftentimes moft pernicious.
Ihsker,

Stood open wide, beUbing outrageous flame

low fpeech.
What fevcral madnelTes In men appear

Alter bury.
But fliould you lure the monarch of the brook,
Bebowcs jou then to ply your fineft art. Thcmfon.

profitable ; advantageous.

From thofc deep-throated engines belcb'd. Milton.
The gates tliat now

Be'ing. conjiinil. [from be.'] Since. Dia.
Be it so. A phrafe of anticipation, y«^-

ufed only imper-

ixrvilh the very foundation and root, the highcft
well-fpring and fountain of them, to be difcovercd.

Immediate in a flame,
But foon obfcur'd with fmoke, all heav'n appearM,

,

ah being formM to cheac
By teeming kindncfs,mixtwitli deep deceit! Dryd.
It is fully to fcek the approbation of any biing,
bcljde!. the fupreme ; becaufe no other being can
make a right judgment of us, and becaufe we can
procure no confiderable advantage from the approbation of any other being.
Addifon, Spectator.

Ray.
it would be of no hebixf, for the fettling of government, unlefs there were a way tatight, how to
know the perfon is> whom belonged this power and
dominion.
Locke.

7» BEHO'OVE, v. n. [behopan, Saxon,

B E i:

The perfon exifting.
Ah (air, yet falfe

tars.

is

L

.

BEL

B.E.I

it

;

!

Canary

5.

belfio-tver,

with orrach

leaves and a tuberofe root. 6. Blue bclflo-wer, with
edible roots, commonly called rampions. 7. Venus

looking-glafs bilji.iotr,

&c.

Milier.

Belfo'undbr. n.f [from bell andfound.

]

He whofc trade it is to found or cad
bells.

Thofe that make recorders kna\v this, and lite,
wife belfounders in (itting the tune of their bells.
Bacon.

^

Be lfry. n.f. [Befroy, in French, is a
tower ;
wor.1,

which

till

was perhaps the

thofe, who

ginal, corrupted
bells were in

it.

it

true

knew not its orito

be/fry,

becaufe

The place where the

bells are rung.

IVtch

; ;

—
;

BEL

BEL
Tetth the kstbern bucket that iiaaga !» the Idfrt; that is curioully painted Ueforc, and will
Cay.
make a fiijurc.

Belga'rd. n.f. [belle egard, Fr.] Afott
glance ; a kind regard

:

Creed

6.

Upon her eyeiijs Biany graces fat,
UnoeiF the fiiadow of her even brows,
Working iilgsrdi, and amorous retreats. Fj'irji £^.
7'o

Beli'e. f. a. [from ie and //>.]

1.

To counterfeit; to feign; to mimick.

dible ; that wh:;h
believed.

Paint, patches, jewels laid afide,

At night aflronomers agree,
The evening has the day hely'dy
And Hhillii is fome forty-thrve.

and /'(•//ci/f thee for ever.

To exercife the theological virtue of
faith.

Encircled you to hear with reverence.

With the particle upon,

to truft ;

place

to reft

confidence in ;

full

5.

I'hofc comforts titat lliall never ceafc.
Future in ho^r, but prefcnt in htl'ief,
IVcWm,
Faith is a lirm hcl'uf of ihe whofe word of God,
•f bis gofpfl, commands, threats, and promifes.

a bell, as the cups of flowers.
Wliere the bee fucks, there fuck I,

upon

/ believe, is fometimes ufed as a way of
nightly noting fome want of certainty
or exadlnefs.

In furamer's heat nn tops of lilies feed,
And creep within their bells to fuck the balmy feed.
Dryd.n.
3.

plation of heaven and earth ; for that they neither
are fuHicient to give us as much as the Icafl fpark
of light concerning the very principal myfleries

Hooker.
forcible,

,

Religion ; the body of tenets held by
the profefTors of faith.

gates of hell prevail againft tbeni.

wn

4. Perfuafion ; opinion.
He- can, I know, but doubt to think h: will
Yet hope would fain fubfcribe, and tempts belirf.
Militn.
All treaties are grounded upon the beHif, tiiat
Hates will be found
their honour and oblervmcc
of treaties.
Temple.

m

the objedl of be-

lief.

Superllitious prophecies are not only t\M iciitf

•f fools, butthe talkfcmstimes of wife men. Binn,

Svi'ft.

Beli'evingly. a,-iv. [from To believe.
"^

After a believing manner..
Bei.i'ke. aJ-v. [hom like,
by likilihoij.']

M

I .

Probably

;

likely ; perhaps.

There came out '.f the fimc woods a horrible
foul bear, which fearing, belike, v.hile the lion was
prefent, came furioully towards tlie place where I
was.

Sidney.

Lord Angeloi beUke, thinking me remifs in my
cfjcc, awakens me with this unwonted putting on.
Shakeffearc.

all

odicr nation:;, as

b..oks a;id works.

may appear both by their
Hakcwill,

'

To Jhr.ke the bells, A phrafe iu Shakefpeari, tajccn from the bell; of a hawk.

5.

Noith-r the king, nor he that loves him belt.

The proudcft he that holds up Lancaftcr,
D.uts ilir a wing, if Wai wicky/iiai-« bis bells, Sbay
7fl Bell. "v. «.

[from the noun.] To grow

in buds or flowers, in the form of a bell.
Hops, in the beginning of Augull, bell, and :ire
fuiuctinies ripe.

Mortivterm

BiLL-FASHiONED.

[from bell and
fitjhion.] Having the form of a. bell;
campaniform.
The thorn-apple rifcswith a ftrongroup.d (lilk,
adj.

having large bell fajhiooed ^o\i^n at the joint.'.
Mortimer,

Belt.e. n.f. \btau,

belle,

Fr.]

A young

lady.

What motive could compel

Jofephus affirmclli, that one of them remained
in hi; time; meaninjf, belike, fome r«iii or foun-

A well-bred lord aifault a gentle betlef
O fay, what (Irangcr caul'c, yjt une;.(jlor"d,

dation tliereof.

Cuuld m«kc a gentle btlle rejsft a lord

Raleigh.

from

ftieep, or the firft horfe of a drove that
has hdls on his collar.
The Italians have carried away the bf',1 from

Hooker.

If he which '.vritctb do that which

11 ;

the wether, that carries a bell among tiie

A profeflbr of Chriftianity.
when belicveri did well, when otherw:fe.

To be the fir

To bear the hell.

4.

howlhould he which readcth be thought to do that
which, in itfell, is of no force to work belief, and
to fave believers /
Hooker,
Myfteries held bjr tfstiA-. no power, psmp, or
weahh, but have been"msintai:.:d by the univcrfal
body of true believers, from the days of the apoftle's,
and will be to the refurreflion j neither will the

Hockcr,

In the heat of general perfccution, whereunto
fubjc^ upon the firfl promulchridian bilicf
gation, it much confirmed the weaker minds,
when relation was made how God had been glorified through the fuflerings of martyrs^
Utrnker.

As the ox hath Iiis yoke, the horfe his curb, aill
the faulcon hit bells, fo hath man his dffircs.

to

is

a folid ball ;

againll the fides, gives a found.

Infidels themfelves did difcern, in matters of life,

No man can attain hil'nf by the bare contem-

it

which, when it is fliaken, by bounding

entfr into conflia with
churches, which, in extremity, had beci beluven

2.

A fmall hollow globe of metal perforated, and containing in

Sbakefpeare's As you like if,

He that believes, or gives credit.
Uifcipline bcgr.n

Sbakejpeare^ s TentpeJI.

The humming bees, that hunt the golden dew.

Bei.i'ever. «./ [from belie-ve.]
1.

any thing in the form of

It is ufed for

2.

to

ai high as mod
in England, yet a perfjn, in his drink,
fell down, without any other hurt than the breaking of an arm.
Mdifon en Italy.

confidence of the truths of religion.

;

but the bell, which calls to prayers t«ice a-day.
Addifon, SpcBator.

In a cowdip's bell I lie.

of it.

The theologicaLvirtue of faith, or firm

The thing believed

Holder'' s Elements of Speech.

He has no one neceflary attention to any thing

(lecples

Credit given to fomething, which we
know not of ourfelvcs, on account of Uie
authority by which it is delivered.

5.

Four bells admit twenty-four changes in ringing, and five bells oue hundred and twenty.

Though they are, I ielievi,

Belie'f. »./. [from belU've.'^

5.

And bid tlie merry bells ring to thy ear,
That thou art crowned, not that I am dead. Shdk.

God, even to them that believe off his name. ytin.

meaning here.

Sbakefp^

Get thee gone, and dig my grave thyfelf,

To them gave he power to become the fons of

5. To fill with lies. This feems to b« its

of our faith.

formed to make a noife by the a<S
of a clapper, hammer, or Ibme other

with faith.

Shakrjpearii Cymhelim.

A veflel, or hollow body of cafl meJnftrument llriking againft it. Bells are
in the towers of churches, to call the
congregation together.
Your flock, alic:mbled by the bell.

Believe in the Lord your God, fo fiiall you be
eflablifhed.
2 Cbrcn.

4.

Saxon; fuppofed, by
come from feliijs, Lat. a
See Ball.]
[bel,

to

tal,

jeft of faith.

Tufcan Valerus by force o'crcame.

2.

bafm.
1.

With the particle in, to hold as an ob-

3.

And not bclj'd his mighty father's name.

AU corners of the world.

Skinner,

Gives light in darkncfs, comfort in defpair. Sbak,
For with the heart man bcHevetb unto righteoufncfs, and with the mouth confelfion is made
unto falvation.
Romans.

thing.

'Tis flanJer, whofe breath
Rides on the polling V(inds, and doth lc!\c

BELL. It./,

Now God be prai/d, that to believing fouls

1^ To give a falfe reprefentatioa of any

Jjrydcns ^neld.
In the difpute whate'er I faid,
My heart was by my tongue btly^d\
And in tny looks you might have read
How much I argued on your fide.
Prkr.

Their mournful chariot, fill'd with rufty blood.
And down to I'luto's hou fe are come belive. Fairy ij.

CemJIu
2.

He never did encounter with Oiendower. Skakefp.

Uncle, for heav*n's fake, comfortable words.

Exodus.

To Beli'eve. f. ».
1. To have a firm perfuafionof any thing.
They may believe that the Lord God of their
fathers, the .God of Abraham, the Gcd of Ifaac,
and the GoJbf Jacob, hath appeased unto thee.

of any man.
Thou doft hcTiC him, Piercy, thou htUtfi him

M—Should 1 do fo, 1 fhouid htiie my thoughts. ShaL

upon the authority or credit of thofe

To put confidence in the ver.icity of
any one.
The people may hear when I fpcak with thee,

2.

Prior.

To calumniate; to raife falfe reports

fpeed, quicknefs.] Speedily; quickly:
a word out of ufe.
By that fanje way the direful dames to drive

Locke. '~

who have fpoken orwritten of them. Watn't Log.

Sure there is none but fears a future (late

Their trembling hearts tel'ic their boaftful tongues.
Drydai-

Beli've, ae/'v. [bihve. Sax. probably
from bi and hj-e, in the fenfe of vivacity,

Ten th 'ufand things there are, which we IcIjtvc nlcrLiy

falfehood.

J.

may be credited or

but believing.

Apd when the moft obdurate fwear they do not,

We think, bel'ikc, that he will accept what the
meaneft of them would difdain.
Hooter.
God appointed the fea to one of them, and the
land to the other, becaufe ihcy were fo great, that
the fea could not hold them both ; or clfe, belike,
if the fea had been large enough, we might have
gone a filhing for elephants.
Bremu. on Lairg.

Cre-

Adherence to a proportion which they arc perfuaded, but do not know, to be true, is not feeing,

And martini brafs, if& the thunder's found. Drjti.

3.

\_?rom helisve.']

To BELI'EVE. T. a. [jelycan, Saxon.]
1. To credit upon the authority of another, or from fome other reafon than our
perfona] knowledge.

ground.

It is fometimes ufed in a fenfe of irony,

as // may be fuppofed.

Beli'evable, «</•".

Which durft, with horfes hoofs that beat tiie

The fhape of man, and imitated beaft.
The walk, the words, the gefture could fapply.
The habit mimick, =aj the mien itlie^ Dryd!r<.
t To give tiie lie to ; to charge with

2.

of faith.

an old word,

now wholly difufed.

;

E L

15

a form containing the articles

t'

Z z

i"

Tope.

BELLES

.

BELLES LETTRES. n. f. [Fr.]

It has x\o fengular.
The eudnef] of the other, is to admit of fomething like dilcourfe, eipetially in what regardi the

T"''"-

btU.i Ultra.

Be'llibone. «./. [{mmbelluj, beautiful,
bonne,
and bonus, good, Lat. belle

Still cupboarding

Jupiter became a bull, mi ielhwed the green
Sbateffsari.
Neptune a ram, and bleated.
What bull dares belUvi, or what flieep dares bleat,
Drydin.
Within the lion's den ?
But now the hufband of a herd muft be
;

_

this

fcnfe it is a word of contempt.
The dull fat capuin, with a hound's deep throat.
Would l!e/l<KV out a laugh in a bafe note. Dryden.
This gentleman is accuftofned to roar and bclIrw fo terribly loud, that he frightens us. Tatltr,
roar as the fea in a florm, or as the
4.

To

to make any continued noife,
that may caufe terrour.

6.

Till, at the lad, he hejid a dread found.

Creech's Manilius.

The pgw'r appeas'd, with winds fuffic'd the fail,

Be'llows. n.f. [bihj. Sax. perhaps it
is corrupted from bellies, the wind being
a pair

;

Arfd with forc'd wind the fuel did enflamc. FairySi^
The fmith prepares his hammer for the ftrokc.
While the lung'd W/mus hifling fire provoke. Dryd.
The lungs, as bellnvi, fupply a force of breath ;
•nd the affera arleria is as the nofe of billnivs, to
Uclda.
colleft and convey the breath.

In the following paflage it h^ngulaf.
Thou neither, like a bellcioi, fwell rt thy face,
As if thou wcrt to blow the burning mafs

Of melting ore.

Be'lluine. «<^'.

Be'llybound.

Lat.] Bcaft-

tal.
li human actions were not to be judged, mi:n
would have no advantage over bcafts. At this
ii-.e, the animal and billuwe life wou'.d be the
'

beft.

jiiterbury,

BETLLY. ». /. {balg, Dutch ; boU bela,
Welih.]
V.

That part of the human body which
reaches from the brcaft to the thighs,
«OBtaining the bowels..

Smft.

Be'lmetal. h. f. [from bell and metal.]
The metal of which bells are made, being a mixture of five parts copper with
one of pewter.
Belmetai has copper one thoufand pounds, tin
from three hundred to two hundred pounds, brafs
Sacc-u.
one hundred and fifty pounds.
Colours which arife on bclmeul, when nieltci
and poured on the ground, in open ait, like the
colours of water bubbles, are changed by viewing
Jfetcten.
them at divers obliquities.

aJj.

[from

belly

To Be lo'c k. "j. a. [from be and loeL]

Was fart behck'd in thine.
1.i«.]

Beliirancy, or divination by arrows, hath been
in rcquf fl with Scytliians, Alan^,

Bro^vn''t yulgar Errcuru

To Belo'ng. 1). n.

Dutch.]

To be the property of.

1

farriers.]

The

Ruii.

chafing of a

horfe's belly with the foreglrt,
great pain in a horfe's belly, caufed
2.

To be the province or bufmefs of.

2.

,

There is no need of luch redrefs ;

A

Shaielp,
Or if there were, it not ielings to you.
The declaration of tbefc latent philofophers i*.

Di3.

by worms.

Be'llyful. «./ [from belly and_/a//.]
1. As much food as fills the belly, or fathe appetite.
ufed ludicroufly for

It is often

Be'llycod. n.f. [from belly ind goJ.I
A glutton ; one who makes a god of

To Jove the care of heav'n and earth belongs.

To adhere, or be appendant to.

3.

He went into a dclart bthngir.g toBethfaida.
Luket

To have relation to.

4.

To whom beiir.gejl thou ? whence art thou ?
I

Samuel,

To be the quality or attributes of.

5.

The faculties behnging to the fuprem- fpirit,

his belly.

What Infinite wade they made this way, the
only ftory of Apicius, a famous bellygod, may fuf(hew.

BcyUw

longs to another paper.

Drydtitm..

more

than enough ; thus. King James told
his fon that he would have his bellyful
of parliamentary impeachments.

fice to

[belaitgea,

To light on a part of a field belonging toSoaz.

[With

tisfies

Germans, witli

the Africans and Turks of Airier.

fret.]
1.

Shjieffeare.

Be'lomancy. n.f. [from ^^^ and ^a»-

and

Be'lly-frettinc. n./. [from billy and

To

fallen as with a lock.
This is the hand, which with a vov('d contraft

Difeafed, fo as to be coftive,

bounii.]

2.
[^f//tt/»B/,

Tile colour'd prints of Overton appear.
Gaft
The belman u( each parilh, as he goes his circuit, cries out every night, Pali twelve o'clock.

and ftirunk in the belly.

•

Dryden.

ly ; belonging to a bead ; favage ; bru-

WhercTitian'sglowing paint tlie canvas warm'd.

Now hangs the belman'i fong, and palled here

Fbilif>i.
Thomfehes with bellying goblets.
Be'llyache. n.Jl Iftombelly Andacbe.]
The cholick ; or pai« in the bowels.

Since ftghs, into my inward furnace turn'd.

For bellcnos fervc to kindle more the fire. Sidney.
One, with great btllt,-ws, gather'd filling air,

It was the owl that (kriek'd, the fatal btlman
Shakefpeare^.

Which gives the fti^rn'ft good night.

Tht. bellying canvas ftrutted with the gale. Dryden.
Loud rattling Ihakes the mountains and the plain,
Heav'n bellies downwards, and defcends in rain.
Dryden.
•Midft thefe difports, forget they not to drench

Dryden.

if bellows but Dryden has ufed bellonus
as z^ngular.y
t. The inllrument ufed to blow the fire.

thing in towns, and to gain attention
by ringing his bell.

For bellying earth, flill rifing up, denies
Their light a palTage, and confines our eyes.

Sptnjer.

Pricr,

belly.

Any place in which fomething is iadofed.
Out of the beify of hell cried I, and thou

The fifing rivCTS float the nether ground ;
And rocks the bcUow'tng voice of boiling feas re-

founded on your belly-limbir.

Be'lm AN. n. f. [from bell and mafi.] Hewhofe bufinefs it is to proclaim any

out ; to bulge out.
Thus by degrees day waftcs, figns ceafc to rife,

Which thro' the wood loud hil'mi'ixg did rebound.

contained in the hollow, or belly. It has

Is

Be'lly-worm. n. f. [from belly and
iL-orm.]
A worm that breeds in the

Jonab.
heardell my voice.
To Be'lly. "v. n. [from the noun.] To
fwell into a larger capacity } to hang

wind ;

X.

Where belly -timber, above ground
Ifudibras*
Or under, was. not to be found.
The ilrcngth of every other member

Cir.grcJi.

Fortune fomctimes turneth the handle of the
which is cafy to be taken hold of; and
Bacon.
after the belly, which is hard to grafp.
An Irifh harp hath the Concave, or brliy, not
along the ftrings, but at the end of the llrings.
Bacsn.

Shake/peart.

for we ufually fay,

belly.

bottle,

He faften'd on my neck, and iellna'd oat.

no Jingular ;

"l

Shatejpeare.

into a larger capacity.

To make any violent outcry.

bound.

M01 rimer.

Be'i.ly-timber. n.f. [from belly and
timber.
Food ; materials to fupport the

in oppofition to the back, or that which
demands clothes.
They were content with a licentious life, wherein thi-y might fill their bellia by fpoil, rather than
Hnyivard.
by labnur.
Phil.
Whofe god ij their belly.
He that fows his grain upon marble, will have
jiriurhnot.
many a hungry belly before harveft.
5. The part of any thing that fwells out

Thy mate, and belkw'wg fons thy progeny. DryJ.

In

is

4. That part of man which requires food,

[beUipotcns, Lat.]

to clamour.

it

like Mrs. Piimly's big btlJy.

To make a noife as a bull.

;

They have two fmall harr^Nvs that they clap
on each fide of the ridge, and fo they harrow
right up and down, and roll it with a hiliyrcll, that
goes between the ridges when they have fown it.

The ferret is grown too big for the pretence,

DiH.
mighty in war.
To Be'llow. <!/. n. [bellan, Saxon.]

To vociferate

in this fenfe,

child by you.

PuiiTant ;

3.

:

than you can the
I fiiall
getting up of the negro's belly 1 the Moor is with

Dia.

At he'd burft heav'n.

womb

commonly ufed ludicroufly or familiarly.
I'he

anlwi-r that better,

Lat.]

Bblli'gerous. J Waging war. Dia.
Be'lling. n.f. A hunting term, fpokeof
a roe, when flie makTes a noife in rutting

2.

A

roll fo called, as it feemt, from entering into the hollows.

Gctief.u

divt of thy life.
3.

Aad Syrinx Tcjoice that ever w« her lot
Sf infer.
To bear fuch a one.

i.

Be'llyroll. n.f. [ftoiB belly and roll.]

that part of the body next the ground.
And the Lord faid unto the lerpcnt, Upon thy
belly ihalt thou go, and duft ihait thou eat, all the

Such a billikcnc,

aJj.

Kijpp their lur dry, uiibonnctted he runt. Slakefp,

the viand, never bearing

Shaietfeari.
Like labour with the reft.
2. In beafts, it is ufed, in general, for

A

Belli'potent.

The lion and the brlly-pinched wolf

That only like a gulf it did remain,

woman excelling both in beauFr.]
ty and goodiiefs. A word now out of ufe.
Pan may be proud that ever he bigot

time.

couch.

KebeU'd againft tlie belly; thus accuk'J •(>-'

W

[belliger,

Tbis night, Wherein the cubdriwn bear would

The body's memberi

Polite

literature.

lai!j.

BEL

BEL

BEL

Belli'gerant.

'

Uskeviill.

are uiiiimitcd and
{')!

infinite objecls.

boundlefs, fitted and defigned
Cheync»

To be referred to

6.

Be'lly-pikched. adj. [from belly snd

;

to relate to.

He carcth for things that btUng to the Lord.
I Coriitb,

pinab.] Starved.
'

>

Belo'veo,

I

I

i

;

Shakefpeare.
Within the btlt of rule.
Ajax (lew himfelf with the fword given him
by Heftor, and Hcftor was dragged about tile
walls of Troy by the bdt givien him by Ajax.

obfervable, that
though the participle be of \-cry frequent
It

is

ule, the -verb is feldomor never admit-

ted ;

as we fay, you are

dear.
I think It is not me«t,

Mark Anthony, fo vwcU lulcv'd of Csfar,
Shahfftarc.

Shiuld outlive Csefar.
In likcnefi of a dove

Tlie Spirit defcendeJ, while the Father's voice
From hcav'n pronounced hira his bilwed Son.
'

I .

•

To Bely'.

z Inferiour in dignity.

To BemaT). v. a. [from he s.ni.mad.'l

lead to tlic ekflors

of the empire,

and but one
^tldijoj!.

degree hefinu kings.

Inferiour in excellence.

3.

His idylliumi of Theocritus are 35 much beIvur bii Mauilius, as the fields are below the ftars.
Fdtnit.

Unworthy of; unbefitting.

4.

Belo'w. adv.
In the lower place ; in the place neareft

1.

tlie centre.

that be on the top of Paul's feem much lefs than
they are, and cannot be known j but, to men

>

Be'ncher.

To

Of how unnatural and bemadding ibrrow
The king hath c»ule to plain.

His fultry beat infcAs the fky ;

The ground bclm'xi parcb'd, the heav'ns above us
Drydir.
This faiH, he led the^ up the mountain's brow,
all
the
Ciining
6dds
bilt^-w.
ihew'd
them
And
fry.

Dry den.

On earth, in oppofition to heaven.
And let no tears from erring pity flow.
For one that's blefi'd atiove, immortaliz'd belnu.
Smith.

The fairefl child of Jove,
Prior.
Btlno for ever fought, and bleft'd above.
3. In hefl ; in the regions of the dead :

Shaktffeart.

V. a. [from he and mire.']
drag of encumber in the mire ; to

by palling through dirty places.
Away they rode in homely fort.

oppofed to heaven and earth.
I'he giadfume ghotts in circling troops attend j
Delight to hover near, and long to know
What bus'nefs brought him to the realms bclnv.
Dryden.

When fufT'ring faints aloft in beams fliall glov.,
And prolp'com ttaiton gnaih their cecth btiimi.
Tiikill.

To Belo'wt. v. a. [from he, AnAlo-wt,
a word of contempt.]
To tr£at with
opprobrious language ; tu call names.

Inn ;

a favour that

when he heard

gentleman
Iff Oft, that at a fupper they had not only good
cbrcr, bat alf^ fivoury epigrams, and fine anafami, returning hnme, rated and belnuud his
Sieur Claulard,

a

The loving couple well bimir^d
The horfe and both the riders tir'd.
Swift.
To
To Beuo'ak. V. a. [from To moan.
lament ; to bewail ; to exprefs forrow

rious circle, and the hands of the

Implores their pity, and bis ^:k\n bernoam. Dyyden.
"The gods themfclves the ruin'd fcatS bertoanf
And blame the mifchiefs that themfclves have
done.
Addifcn.

bended it.
They bend their bows,

You are a charitable ^('//wtf^^rrj my wife cried
out fire, and you cnfA out for cnpini^s.

[belr.

Sax.

Vrydfn.

bnltheus, Lat.]

girdle ; a cinfture in which a fword,
or Some weapon, h commonly hung.

.

.

To dired to a certain point.

2.

Oflavius and Mark Anthony
Came down upon us with a mighty power.

with mocks.
Bcmock the modelt moon.

Sbakejp/art.

Bending their expedition tow'rd Philippi. Sbaktff,
Why duft thou bend thy eyes upon the earth.
And ftart fo often when thou fitt'ft alone ? Siak.

and tnoil, from
mouiller, Fr.] To bedraggle; to bemire;
to encumber with dirt and mire.
Thou fliouldft have heird in how miry a place,
how (he was iuntiUd, how kelefc her with the
a.

[he,

horfe upon her.

To Bemo'nster. f.

Your gracious eyes upon this labour bent. Ftirf,

To that fwcet region was our voyage hentf
When winds, and cv'ry warring element,
Dry4">'
Difturb'd our courfc
Then, with a rulhing found, th' atTembly ber,d
Diverfe tlieir (teps ; the rival Toat afcend
Pope.
The royal dome.

Stal.ffearc,

a,

[from ^<!and

To make moqllrous.

Thou

chang'd and fclf-tonvcrted thing ! for
{hame,
Btmorjter not thy feature.
Shakcfftari

To apply to a certain' purpofe ; to in^
tend the mind.

3.

Men will not ienj tht'ir w!t« to eitaraine, whetlic»
things, wherewith they have been accuftomcd, be
Hooker.
good or evil.

.

Bemxj'sed. adj. [from To mu/e.'] Overcome with mufingi dreaming a word
;

He is within, with two right reverend fathers.
SiSakeffeaye.
Divinely bent tu meditation.
When he fell into the gout, he was no longer
able to hcnd liis mind or thoughts to any publick
Temple,
b.ifu-.efs.

<)f contempt.
Is there a parftnjiiuch bemui'd in beer,

A maudlin poetefsj a rhiming peer ?

"

Ecelus.
they wliirl their flings

around :

To Bemo'ck. v. a. [from mock.] To treat

To BsMofiL. V.

Mod High hath

Heaps of fpent arrows fall, and drew the ground ;
And helms, and (hiclds, and rattling arms rulbund.
Dryden.

A

Pe/r.

BENCH,
/. [bene. Sax. banc. Fr.]
I. A feat, diflingoilhed from zjiool by Its

'

fi.

\.

To put any thing in order for nfe : a
metaphor taken from bending the bow.
I'm fettled, and herd up

The feats and bcnchu (hone of ivory,

An hundred nymphs fat fide by fide ab-)Ut. Spi^ffcr,
All Rome is plcas'U when Statius will rehcailc,
And longing crowds expeO the prorah'ij verfe ;
His lofty numbers with fo gi-eat a gull

wboremafter.

fcveral

The rainbow compaC'eth the heaven with a glo-

They hear, and fwallow witli fuch eager lull i

A cant word for a

me by

;

He falls, he fills the houfc with heavy groans.

hira either epigrams or anagrams.

BtLswA'oGEit. n. /.

indulged

Saxon hander, Fr. as thinner thinks,
from pandare, Lat.]
1. To make crooked ; tocrook; to inflefl.

for.

ccolt, as an ign )rant fcullion, that never drtircd

Camdin.

is

Taller),
who arc grown old with me.
To BEND. V. a. pret. bsnded, or bent j
[benban,
part. paff. bended, or bent,

greater length.

Obfolete.

.

benchers,

Their journey long, their money ihort;

monjier,']

/.

are intrufted with its government and
direftion, and out of them is a treafurer
Blount. Chambers.
yearly chofen.
I was taking a walk in the gardens of Lincoln's

7'oBbmi'rb.

To

Shahefpure.

[from bench.'] 'Thofe
gentlemen of the inns of court are called
benchers, who have been readers ; they
being admitted to plead within the bar,
71.

The
are alfo called inner barrillers.
benchers, being the feniors of the honfe,

lamenter ; the perfon that laments.

A

His cupbearer, whom I from meaner form

Have britch'd, and rear'd to wor(hip.

Making juft report.

Bemo'aner. n. f. [from the verb.]

n. /.

'Twas h!r:ch'd with turf, and goodly to be fecn.

The thick young gmfs arofe in freflicr green. Dryd,
2. To feat upon a bench.

make mad ; to turn the brain.

Saan.

following.

To furnifh with benches.

1

See Belie.

above, thofe btlno feem nothing fo much IclTcned,
Saan.
and may be knowna
The upper regions of the air perceive the colleflion of the matter of the temp«fts and winds
before the air here beltnv ; and therefore the obfcuring of the fmallcr ftars, is n fign of tcmpeft

Bti.T.

Tb'applaufeoflirds and commoners abounds.Z)rjf(i.

To Bench, v. a, [from the noun.]

"]

To men (landing below on the ground, thofe

2.

While, from both bmcbci, with redoubled founds,

Htnvtll.

ditch.

foil

'Tis much bctiiii me on his throne to fit
Drydtv.
But when I do, you ihall petition it.

Of publick fpeecbes, which worfe fools admire 5

To.offcr to get your living by the copulation of
Shalefjunn.
cattle ; to be a bawd to a htlibcthcr.
The flock of fljcep and bfkvcthir thinking to
break into another's pafture, and being to pafs
over another bridge, julUed till both fill into the

For all h;!irw the moon I would not leap. Shai.
He'll beat Aufidiui' head btlru) his knee,
Shakejfiare.
And tread upon his neck.

The noble Venetians think themfelves cquil at

Fools to^popular praife afpire

;

Milion.

not fo high.

The perfons fitting on a ^?«ir;6 ; as, the
whole bench voted the fame way.

3.

Then fnatch'd theftiningic//,with gold inlaid
The brit Eur) tion's artful hands had made. Dryd,
Belwe'ther. n.f. [from W/ and av^/ier.]
A ihcep which leads the flock with a
bell on his neck.
The fox will ferve my fliecp to gather,
And drive to follow after their hrltuether. Spcnfer.

Belo'w. prep, [from he and lirvj.l
;

Pronounc'd, and in his volumes taught our laws.

Which others at their bar fo often wrench. Milton.

South.

much belo'ved

by me, but not, 1 ^elow you.] Loved ;

Under in place

B E N
Cyriae, whofe grandfire on the teyal tencb
Of Britiih Themis, with no mean applaufe,

H« cannot buckle his diftcmperM eaufa

[from belove, de-

participle,

rived of love.

.

.

BEN

BEL
Belo'ved.

,

To incline.

5.,

.

B jt when to mifchief mortals knd their will,

But while the common fuft'rige crown'd hiscaufe,

And broke the brnchci with their loud applanfe.
His mufe had ftarv'd, had not a piece umead.
And by a player bought, fuppiy'd her bread. Dryd.
feat of juftice ; the feat where judges
.

A

fit:

To pluck down juftice from- your awful itnch
Skakijftjre,
To trip the couifi yf Uw.
;

,

_Each corporal agent to this terrible feat. Shakefp.
As a fowler was ien.lirg his net, a blackbird
L'EJIrange.
a(ked him what he vias doing ?

How focn they fir.d
6..

To fubdue

;

lit

to

Pope.

inftruroenrs of ill !

make fubmiffive

:

as,

war and famine will ienJ our enemies.
the brow }
7- To bend the broiu.. To knit
to frown.
Some have been fcen to bite their pen, fcratch
their he»d, bend ihrir bro^wt, bite thcit lips, bsat
Camden.
(he board, and tcai their pa^r>

TV

'

'

B E R

B E CL
Tendency;

9.

flexion;

particular direc-

Save our depofcd bodies to the ground ! libahfp.
My father iejuealhed me by will but a poor thouSiah/feart.
fand crowns.
Methinks this age feems refolved to bequca:h
GItmvHU.
pofterity fomewhat to remember ic
For you, whom bed I love and value molt,
But to youf feivice i befueaib my ghod.

'

The cxercifing the underftanding in tht feveril

I

LtiJLc,
of the matter, in all its rrfcarches.
•
ftalk of grafs, called btnt-graji.
Hit fpcir, a btnt both ftiff aud ftrong.

A

10.

And well near of two inches long ;
The pile wis of a horfe-fly'j tongue,
Whofe fliarpnefs nought reverfed. Drayt. Njnfh.
Then the

flowers of the vines j

it

a

is

Bleuttt.

mention

Pfachaih.

He claimed the crown to himfelf j pretending
an adoption, or bequefi, Of the kingdom unto him
Halt.
by the Confcfl'or.

I
'

JLb'nting Time, [from icrf.] The time
when pigeons feed on bents before peas To Bera'ttLS.

Now
wench ;

"».

Sbaktjpean.

come.

When, lagging late, they cinnot rtach their home.

Poems I heeded now tcrhym'd fo long.
,

No more than thou, great George

\

a birthdav

fong.

1

P^pr.

n.f. [from Berlin, the city
where they were iirll made.] A coach oV

Beri-i'.v.

a particular form.

j

Beware of Latifwauthors all

'.

Nor think your verfes ftcrling,
Though with a golden pen yo« fcrawl,

And fcribble in a ht-l'm.

Swifii

j

Drydcn,

ing rapiers are afraid

'

'

of goofequUlsi and

fcarce come thither.

dare

Shakejftarc.

7a Benu'm. v. a. [benumen, Saxon.]
[berberisi fometimes
1. To make torpid ; to take away the Be'rberrv. ». /.
written barberry, which fee.l
A berry
fcnfation and ufe of any part by cold,
of a Ibarp taile, ufed for pickles.
or by fome ob'ftruflion.
j

To BERS'AyE, 1'. ,».

1

'..

Only my blood fpcaks to you in my veins. ?ikak.
That when thou com*ft to kneel jt Henry's feet.

Sialb.

Thou may'ft bereave him o/'his wits with wonder.

Aall bring them to themfehcs, becaufe they were
once frazcn and henuirrr.:d with cold ? L" Efirange^

^hakejftate.

Bacon's Effays.
Tht: facrc^ prieiU with ready knives bereave

rrhc beafts ^ Ut'el

A medicinal kind of refrom the Eaft Indies, and
vulgarly called benjamin. It is procured
by making an incifion in a tree, whole
leaves referable thofeof the lemon-tree.
The beft comes from Siam, and is called amygdaUides, being interfperfed with
white fpots, refembling broken almonds.
Tre'voux. Chambers.
»./.

Bereave me not,
'
Whfcreon 1 live t thyjentle looks, thy*id,
Thy cnunfeli in this uttcrmoU diftrc6.' JtSlim,
'

-

fomewhat like thofe of the cyprefs. Th,e
k'atkins; or male flowers, are produced
at remote dillanc^s from the fruit on

l (

.

•

.

'

'

'

'

.,

inclofrng three hard feeds in each.

ivood is of great ufe in the Levant, is
large timber, and may be thouglu the
fhiitim-wood meutioned in the Scrip,
hire, of which many of the ornaments
to the famous teniple of Sdomon were

D/S

"

-'

The chief pr.either fide bcnfi.oi l:i
Or yielded to the foe, concludes the fttife. Dryi.

Berg;

SceBuRROW.

made: '^"1 ./?•'•'

See P s a r .
2. A fort of effence, or perfume, drawn
from a fruit produced by ingrafting a
lenion^tree on a bergamot pear rtock.
3. iA fort of fbuff, iirhich is only cleart tobacco, with a little of the eflence'rubgamot.

,

One caufed, at a feaft, » bagpipe to be fizyii,
which made the knight itpift hlmfelf, to- the great
diversion of all then prefcnt, at well as confufion

Dirbam,

To BEQUE'ATH. -v. a. [cpi=Se, Sax, 4
will.] To leave by will to another.
She had never been difmhcritcd of that goodly
j>ortion, which nature had fo liberally bequtctttd
Siiinry.
to her,

,

'",
•;'/
ied intb'it.
Be'rg.mas TER. ».'/ [froitl beps.Sax.aud
'

•

PERK V BLICKj*.

.

1

T,o wet

;

i

;

A fort of pear, commonly called bur^ BERRy-BEARiNO, OrtLch:

I.

In their fides, arms, Ihoulders, all hrpincht,
Kan thick the weals, red with blood, ready to iiait
out.
Chapman.

The fruit is a berry,
The

the fame tree.

Sf'ahffeare,

,

'

'

.

.

The bailiff, or chief officer,
among the Derbyfhire ininers.
Be'rcmote. «./. .[of bepj, a mountain,
majier.]

and mot4, u: mevting, S»xon.]' A'ilourt

To

Bsrry-bkarino Cedar, [ce.'/rus bacci~
fern, Lat.] The leaves 'are fquamofe,

To Be'rcamO-T. ».y; [bergamttte, Fr.]'

Bepi'nch. 'V. a. [from pinch.'^
mark with pinches.

ffo

of himfelf.

..

,

privatioh.
Bbre'f.-5. partfp'ajf. 6{ bereave.

-

.._,

:

Shaiefp,

bear berries.

B E R e''a V KM E N T» tuf. -{from bcreave.'J'De-

Slfe would a maiden bluOi hefa'mt my cheek. Shat.

with, urine.

.

All your interci^jin.thofe' territories

cover with paint.
Thou know'ft, the raafk of night is on my face,

///j.]

,

Is utterly icrefi you, all is loH.

See Benjamin Tree.
a. [from /«/»/.]
To

[from

,

To take away from.

3.

To Bepa'int. *,

«.

Neighbour'd by frv'.t of bafeft quality.

To Be'rry. f. n. [from the noun.]

'

of fluidity and

-

Sometinies It is tifed' Without ^.

2.1

Spenjer.,

The llawberry grows underneath the netue.
And wholelomc l-jrries thrive and ripen beft,;

Benfley't Sermsns.

Boyle.

Benzoin Tree.

That all the gods admir'd.

is to make us mere

favagcs j it is to bereave us c/'all arts and fcicnccs,
of hiltory and' letters, nay of rc\'ealeJ religion
too, that ineftimabte favour of Heaven.

The liquor we have diOiUed from henxoin, is
frequent viciffiludes

A fruitful olive tree, *vith berries SptatA,

Drydin.

T* deprive us of metals,

fin imported

^

did yield

ovcrgreacnefs in one counfellor.

:

f'tthy

feeds or fmall ftones.
She fmotc the ground, the wjiich ftraight forth

There was never-* prince ifrw»f</o/ his depenjdencies by his' council, except there hath been au
'

Thefe afceiits were her laft the creeping death
BimHimi'd her fenfes firft, then ftopp'd her breath.
Urydin.

1'.

That of yourlelf you thus btrebbed art ?

I

'

what evil ftar

!

BE'RRY. n.f. [l«iuj. Sax. from bepan,
to bear.] Any fmall fruit, with many

I

To ftupify.

IToBepi'ss.

She fald, ah deareft lord

On you hath frown'd, and pour'd his influence bad,

;

WHI thsy be the lefs dangerous, when warmth

fubjefl to
firmnefs.

I

,

of
taken away.
Madam, you have bereft me o/'all words.

ap4 where there is no fehfe, there can be no pain.

Benzo'in.

tlsrris.

'

'

It fcizcs upon the vitals, and l>atums the fenfes;

2.

.

prtter. / bereaved,

.

My Hnews llackcn, and an ic^ ftiflhefs
Dinham,
£cnums my blood.
-..'.-

\

or bereft ; part. beref{^ [be]\eoj:ian. Sax-

'

Some better fliroud, fome better warmth, to cKpriHi
Mj/lm,
Our limbs henumm'd.

'"'

',

Te Bero'b. v. a. [froin rob,] To rob ; to
plunder ;' to wrong any, by taking away
,^Oo,-].'f,„ •.
foniething from him by ttealth or vioftrip
of;
to
deprive
of.
It
has
geI. To
lence.
Not ufed.
nerally the particle
before the thing

The winds Mow moill and keen, which bid;
us feek

fpace of ground three, four, or five feet
wide, left without, between the loot of
the rampart and the fide of the mote,
to prevent the earth from falling down
into the mote ; fometimes palifadoed.

t

Bacon's Nat. Hiji,

herhirriei, crabs, llo;s, Eff.

Fairfax,
,

BERME. tt.f [Fr. in fortification.] A

Some never ripen to be fwcet, as tamarinds,

So itings a fnakc that to the fire Ts brought.

Which harmlcfs by, witli cold ienumm'J, before.

;

I kept, like Afian monarclis, from their fight*.

with noife ; to make a noife at in
contempt.
Thefejire now the fafhion, and fo btrattle the
common ftages, fo they .call them, that many wear-

{bte ttnriirg times, and moulting months, may

he for' the numbert that Eetrat^
Laura to his lady was but a kitctienmarry, Ihc had a better lore to berbyme

I fought no homage from the race that write

To

[horn rattle.']

«.

a word

is

her.

fill

2re ripe.

:

flow'J in :

DiS,
Beqjje'st. n.f. [from bequtatb.l Something Kft by will ; a legacy.

Batc'i M-ffay.
June is drawn in a nuntle of dark ^rafs-^reen,
upon his head a garland of htnti, kingtops, and

rhyme, or verfes

in

of contempt.

A legacy.

duft, lilce the duft of a tent, which grows upon the

deciding contr».

for

ToBbrhy'me. v. a. [from rhyme] To

Beque'athment. n./, [from bequeath.']

little

hill

verfiei among the Derby fliire miners.

Drydtit's Fablei.

.dulier, ia the firft coming f JiUi.

maidenhair.

held upon a

•

And yet not fo— for what can we bf^uearb,

*

wijs of rcifjuing, teachtrh the mind fupplcnefs,
to apply itfelt" more dtxteroufly to hilts and turns

•

Ijt *• chaofe executor!, an4 talk of willk (

I

tion.

B E R

.

Sec

Mdl-

.

is thefamp with our bright; in
theLatin, illufiris and darus. So E.birt,
eiermillyfamous or bright ; Sigberi ,famous
And the who was termed by
' eenquercr.
the Gcrrhans Bertha, was fey the Greeks
called £ wi'v/rf, a,s is Qbfervcd 'by Lint'
Of tKe'fame fort were thefe,
frrfliiii'iis.
rhecJruSy EfipiSaKius, Photius, Lampridtiis,

Fulgfiitius, Jllufirii.
'

BsfiTU.

»./.

''

Miller.^-

Ber-j',

'

•

Gibfon's CarttdiH.

(with failors.J See Birth.

B^'rtram.

;

.

.

;

;

.

B E S

e E S

Only bcjiatient, till we have appeas'd
But they him fpying, both with greedy fprce
"fcB'jtTRAM. «./. [pyretl^rum.'Ltit.'] Afort
The multitude, bejide themfel-ves with fear. Shak.
At once upon him ran, and him befet
of herb, called alfo baftard pellltory.
of
ftrokes
mortal
-Feftus
faid with a loud voice, Paul, thou art befide
ihel.
Fairy flueen.
With
kind of To Beshre'w. 1/. a, [The original of
ihyfrlfi much learjiing^doth make thee mad. ^l^t»
.Be'ryl. «. /. [berjllus, Lat.]
J
precious ftone.
word is fomewhat obfcure : as it BeSi'dE. 7
, this
'^
May thy b':U<»trs roul.a(bore
evidently implies to nmjh ill, fome derive Besi des. J
Viltoti.
The beryl and the golden ore.
Germ, to enchant. 1 . lylote than that ; over and above.
it from hefchryen.
The beryl of our lay .daries is only a fine <qrt ofj
If Cadio do remain.
his
Book
in
Animah, deduces
Topjil,
fometimesred,
of
cornelian, of a more deep bright
He hath a daily beauty in his life.
than
tranfparent
more
fays
it from thej<&rra; maufe, an animal,
with a caft of yellow, and
That makes me ugly ; and, bejides, the Moor
H^indirard,.
the common cornelian.
he, fo poifonous, that its bite is a feMay unfold me to him ; there ftand I in peril.
To
To Bescre'en. i;. a. [irom fireen.]
Shakijpeere,
Jbteiu likewife fignifies
vere curfe.
Bejides, you know not, while you here attend,
cover with a fcreen j to flielter ; to cona fcolding woman ; but its origin is not
Th' unworthy fate of your unhappy friend. Dryd.
ceal.
known.]
That man that doth not know thnfe things,
What man art thou, that thus befcreen'J in night,
1. To wifli a curfe to.
which are of necefiity for him to know, is but an
Statejfedre.
So ftumbleft on my counfcl }
Nay, quoth the cock, but I befirtv) us both,
ignorant man, whatever he may know befidcs.
I btfougbt, I

A

•

A

To Bese'ech. t. a.

pret.

If I believe a faint upon his oath. DrydeiCt Fables.

have be/ought, [from j-ecan. Sax. verJbtken, Dutch.]
1 .

To entreat

;

2.

fometimes before a perfon.

Shakej^eare,
I btfeefb

thee for

my fon Onefimus, whom I

have begotten in my bonds.

fhiUmnr., lo.

If Hermia meant to fay Lyfander lied. Shakefpeare.

Bes/di.

The men £iid unto I.ot, HjUl thou here any be-

He makes his moan*
2.

Pope.

Skinner.

This word I have only found in Spenjir.]
Ad<-ipted; adjufted; becoming.

ourSaviour^s hiilory.
j^ddijott onCbri/i. Religion.
Precepts of morality, bepdes the natural corruption of our tempers, are abftra£tcd from ideas of

Forth came xhn ancient k)rd and aged queen,
Armed In antique robes down to the ground.
And fad habiliments right well bejeen.
Fairy

Tc B t s e't. f

3.

;

Not according to, though not contrary

The Stoicks did hold a ncccHary connexion of

to hem in; to inclofe; as

caufes;

they believed,

but

that

God doth

praur (S^ centra rtatur^mf pcfiJes zad againft na-^

Fellow hjm that's fled
The thicket is bifii, he cannot 'fcape. Shakejpeari,
Now, Cxfar, let thy troops bejel our gates.
And bar each avenue

Bramhalll
To fay a thing is a chance, as it relates to fecond
caofcs, ngnifics no more, than that there are fom4
events bejide the knowledge, purpofc, expectation,
am) power of fecond caufcs.
South.
, Providence often difpofcs of things by a method
b^idcy and above, the difcovcric:) of man's reafon.

I

[

Bejet 'nith ills, and covct'd with misfortunes.

To Beslu'bber.

To dawb

I

To waylay

to furround.
Draw forth thy weapon, we 're befel with thieves
Refcue thy miftrefs.
Stjieffeare

1

True fortitude I^ake ta be the quiet poileirioi
of a man's frlf, and an undifturbcd doing bis duty
whatever evil hei'm^ rrt dangerlies in his way. Locke^
3.
'

To erabarrafs ; to perplex; to entangle
without anv means of efcape.
Now, daugfiterSjIvia, you arc hard btjet. SJvH
Thus Adiun, toeelejel, rcpljr'd.
Sure, or I r-ad her vifage much wnifs^

Or grief b'/eis b«r hard.

.Mil'int

Kituc,

We be in this /world Ar/rr with Ciadry uncafu
n-iflis, diftrafled withidiffcicnt dcfjrcs.

4. ToiiU upon; to kuais.

..Voi-J,

Lickt,

Not ufed.

•

4.

Out of; in a ftate of deviating from.
You arc too wilful blame,

To bedawb ; to overfpread with fome«
thing that flicks on.

That face of his 1 do remember wf 1!
Vet when I faw it lafl, it was befmear'd
Sbakefpeari.
As black as Vulcan.

1

And, itnce your coajunj; here, have done
Enough to put him v^ixK^ btjide hi.? oatiencc. ^kal^
i)i yagabonds we fa^,
"That thty are ne'er btfide thcl5 way.
Hitdikras,

Firft Moloch, horrid king befmear'd with blood
Ofhumanfacrificc, and parents tears, Parad.Loft.
Her fainting hand let fall the fword, bcfmeari

.

!

I

Denbam.
With blood.
Her gulhi'ng blood the pavement all befmear^d.

,

a^, htfide htmjeif; out of the order of ra*
!
tional beings ; out of his wits.
Tliey be canicJ bejidft themfeli'CSf to whom the
dignlty.ofpul'lick prayer doth not difrover (bmcp
chil^
what moxc fitoefs in men of gravity, than

m

Shakejpeare.

B,-fmear'd\v\lh precious balm, whofe virtuous might
Fairy Slueen.
ViA heal his wounds.

I

Thcfc may. fervc aq landn^arks, ,to /hcw,wha|
lies in tlic di|;e^ ^ay of truth, or is quite bejid^
ivfc,
it.
5. Before a. reciprocal pronoun, out of J

and fwear it was the blood

""

;

The only righteous in a world pervcrfe.
And thcirfore hated, therefor* (o bejel
With foes, for daring fingle to be juft.
Millon

make them bleed ; and then bejiubber

and

He lay as in a dream of deep delight,

LockA

thi* (peculatiurti

[from JIubber.}

To Besme'ar. v. a. [from y5»Mr.]

my .prefent bafinefs to enlarge upon

It is ^r^f

;

v. a.

to fmear.

of true men.

S'mth\

Z.

;

oiir garments witli it,

'

|

One

He perfuaded us to tickle our nofes with fpeargrafs,

ture.'

jfJdifiit.,

know thou look'ft on me as on a wretch

befiege.]

There is hardly a town taken, in the common
forms, where the befiegers have not the worfe of
Swift.
the bargain.

adl

with a fiege.

Catpilball opC}! to h:mfelf a palTagc.

Besi'eger. n. /. [from
employed in a fiege.

;

fome are contrary to nature.

[b>ip«an. Sax.]

To befie^e

J^ddifon.

And he (hall bejiege thee in all thy gates, until thy
Deuteronomy.
high and fenced walls come down.
The queen, with all the northern earls and lords.
Intends here to befiege you in your ciMt. Shakefp.

as we fay, fome things are beJiJe nature,

a. prct. I i^tt ; 1 have ie/tt.

.

admifTion;

We

fenfe.

^

'

A fpecies of pear.

armed forces ; to endeavour to win a
town or fortrefs, by furrounding it with
an army, and forcing the defendants,
either by violence or famine, to give

-

Drydenti

n. f.

leaguer ; to lay fiege to ; to befet with

Over and above.
Doubtlefs, in man there is a nature found,
Bejide thefenfes, and above them far. SirJ.Davies.
In brutes, brjidei the excrcife of fenfitive perception and imagination, there are lodged iqftindts
Hale.
antecedent to their imaginative faculty.
may be fure there were great numbers of
wife and learned men, bejide thoie whofe names are
in theChriftian records, who touk care to examine

Verona's ancitot citizens
Caft by their brave bejteming ornamcnti. Sbnlftff.
What thoughts he had, beftemt not me to fay j
Thaugh feme funnitc he went to faft and pray.

Besi'dery.

To Besi'ece. v. a. \_(vom Jiigi.'\ To be-

Unheard, unknown.

What form of fpeech, or behaviour, bejumftb
liotkcrm
us in our prayers to Almighty God ?

btjie.

All that we feel of it, begins and ends
In the fmall circle of our foei or friends;
To all bejide as much an empty fliade.
Poftm
An Eugene living, as a Cefar dead.
And dead, as living, 'tis our author's pride
Still to charm thofe who charm the world befide.
Pope.

:

Sprait.

Be s e'en, part'uip. [from

L9cke%

Bacon.

Sat eagle-wing'd be/ije him hung his bow. Miltai.
Fair Lavinia fled the fire
Before the gods, and Aood bejide her fire. Vryden.
Fair is the kingcup that in meadow blows;
Fair is the daify that hefde her grows.
Cay.
Now under hanging mountainsj
Bifide the falls of founta'uss.

TV Bese'em. I/, n. [beziemen, Dutch.] To
become ; to be fit ; to be decent for.

Gevijii.

Outlaws and robbers, who break with all the
world bejides, muil keep faith among themfelves.

At his right hand, Viftory

whim 1 fpeak fomething to ourtljves here prefent.

I.

not included here.
fides f

He caufed me to fit down befide him.

to alk : before a thing.
But Eve fell humble, and te/ougbt
His peace, and thus proceeded in her plaint. Mihati.
Before I come to them, I befeecb your patience,
;

Not in this number ; out of this clafs

2.

^^ and/./f.]
J
i

Btjide the hearfc a fruitful palmtree grows,
Fairfax.
Ennobled fince by tMs great funeral.

my

This overfight
Stfeani thee QOt, in witom fuch virtues fpring.
FaWfax,

rj-^^jj,
I.

To

To beg

)

But, bejides that he has attempted it formerly with no fuccefs, it is ceruin the Venetians
Mdifon.
keep too watchful an eye.
trealury.

Besi des. ^ f t
1
At the fide of another ; near.

heart, hejeich you
1, in the anguiflj of
quit the dreadful purpofc of your foul. jidJiJtn.

2.

Some wonder, that t(ic Turk never attacks thii

BeShrtvi thee,coulin, which did'ft l?ad me forth
Of thatfwcet way 1 was in to defpair. Shokejpearc.
Now much i^rcw my manners, and my pride.

to fuppHcate ; to implore :

I heUub you, Sir, pardon me; it is only a letter
from my brother, that I have not all over-read.

Tillotfon,

To happen ill to.

Drydeih

To foil

to foul.
Mylhonour would not let ingratitude

2.

•

;

So much befmear it.

Sbakefpeare.

To Besm i'rch.v. a. To foil ; todifcolour.
Not in ufe,
Pcrh-ips he loves you row.

And now no foil of cautel doth befmireb
Skaiefprar c.
the 'v'trtue of his wi H
'

••

•*«

-

OftC

:

;)

.

Our giyner< ami our gilt arc all it/mircfi
With rainy marching in the painful field. Shai,
To Besmo'ke. f. n. [fiom/moie.l
1. To foul with fmoke.
2. To harden or dry in fmbke.
Te Bbsmu't. v. a. [from /ntut.) To
blacken with fmoke or foot.
Be'som. ».
[b€j-m, btf)-ma. Sax.] An
inllrument to fweep with.
Bacon commended an old man that fold tefomt

/

reader, by fo tedious a bt/feaiing of him.

3.

With fucb accommodation and befirtf
As levels with her breeding.
Sbahffiare,
7i Beso't. v. a. [from_^/.]
to dull ; to

take away the fenfes.
Swinifh gluttony

Ne'er looki to heav'n amidft his gorgeous feaft,
Sut, with htfotud bafe ingratitude.
Crams, and biafphemes hit feeder.
Mihtn,

Or fools hijatttd with their crimes.
That know nut how to ihift betimes.

HuJiirai.

He is tiJilleJ, and has loft h:s reafun ; and what
then can there be for religioa to take hold of him
by ?
South.

To make to doat, with on.

2.

Not much

nfed.
Paris, you fpeak

Like one tefittej

»

your fweet delights. Sbakiff.
Truft not thy beauty ; but rellore the prize
Which he, hjoiiid an that face and eyes,
Would rend from uj.
Dryden.

i;. o. [ from fpangU. ]

His awful filence, and the powers beffckt. Dryden.
Then Raring on her with a ghaftly look.
And hollow voice, he thus the queen biJpoke.Dryd.

him rather a monfter.

in glafles.

;

to fliow.

Locke.

the work, but delight in the work itfelf.

Addifon,

gree of goodnefs.

He Ihall dwell in that place which he fiiall choole,

f^'otun.

Thefe latter hrfi-be truft fpics had fome of them

further inllruflions, to draw oft" the bsft friends

and fervants of Perkin, by making remonftranccs
how weakly his euterprize and hopes
were built.
Bacon.
By this law of loving even our enemies, the
to them,

To give mine enemy a lading wink. Stakeffeare.
To Bespi't. f. a. I ie/pat, or befpit ; I
have be/pit, or befpitten. [from^/V.] To

dawb with fpittle.
Bespo'ke. \irreg. particip. from be/peak ;
which fee.]

chriftian religion difcovers itfelf to be the moll ge-

nerous and bcft-natured inflitution that ever was ia
the world.
TiHotfon,

ToBesta'in. -v. a. [fromy?a/«.] To mark
with ftains ; to fpot.

We will not line his thin befiained cloke

T^Bespo't. v. a. [fromjpot.] To mark
with fpots.

With our pure honours.

To Beste'ad.

Mildew refts on the wheat, brfpctt'mg the ftalks
with a different colour from the natural. Mirimir.
a.

part. pafl". befpread.

befted.
1

preter. bejpread

[from Jjpread.']

With

curious

painted

To afperfe with reproach.

1.

To Beipa'wl. i». a. [from_/^«a»;/.] To
dawb with fpittle.
Te Besfk'ak. 1/. a. he/poke, or he/pake; 1
ha.vs he/poke, or he/poken.
1.

2.

[frvrafpeak.l
entreat any thing beforehand, or againft a future time.

To order, or

betepa,
Saxon.]
I.

betp:,

good,

Having the qualities of beafts ; brutal ;

I have loft the immortal part of myfelf, aid
Sbakeffeare' 1 Oibelht
what rejnains is hrftial.
Moreover urge his hateful luxury.

And biftial appetite, in change of luft.

Mi/ton,
To beftial gods.
The things promlfed arc not grofs and carnal,

fuch as may court and gratify the moft biftial part
Decay of Piety.
of us.

And he will take your fields, even the bejl of
them, and give them to hiis fervants. i 5flm.viii.14.

When the bijf things are not polUblc, the irji Bestia'hty.

Here is the cap your worrtiip did btjfiai. Shak.

and when he

lluker.

is

worft, he is

little

better than a

A heavy wr'tcr was to be encouraged, and ac-

cosdingiy many tboufaod cofics wue^^oAirt Svijfi'

But it i« too much c«B&deacc 9t «v>r owa wifdow,

[from beftial.]

The

What can be a greater abfurdity, than to aflSmn

Shaiefpmre.

think it a good argument to fay, the infin't ly
wife God hath made it (0, and therefore it is biji.

n. /.

quality of beafts; degeneracy from human nature.

When he is icjl, he is little more than a man
beaft.

Sbakefp,

For thofe, the race of.Ifracl oft forfook
Their living ftrength, and unfrequented left
His righteous altar, bowing lowly down

beft,

the higheft degree.

may be made of thofe that are.

Wiien Baboon came to Strutt's eftarc, his tradi fnen wilted upon him to^r/^.c/thiscullom. Ariuii.

Belonging to a beaft, or to the clafs of

ty ; carnal.

Moll good; that which has good qualities in

If you will marry, make your loves to me;
lady is hiffokt.
Shakefftare

My

better,

Ifaiab.

below the dignity of reafon or humani-

{horn/putter.] To

fputter over fomethiug ; to dawb any
thing by fputtering, or throwing out

Sivift

This

beafts.
His wild diforder'd walk, his haggard eye«.
Dryden.
Did all the Af^W citizens furprize.

fpittle upon it.
BtST. adj. ihe/uferlati've-fromgood.[htT,

Fair B.it.iin, in the monaich bleft

Whom never faflion culd beifatttr.

Millon.

Be'stial. adj. [from beaft.'}

:

Sviift.

!

They flia.l pafs through it hardly befiead, and

A purple flood
To Bespu'tter.

To profit.

hungry.

Flows from the trunk, that welters in the Mood
The bed befprmkles, and bedews the ground. Dryd.
"v. a.

have

I

[fiom ftead.'\

Or fill the fixed mind with al| your toys
2. To treat ; to accommodate.
(hould rather be befted.

Herodotus imitating the father poet, whofe life
he had written, hath btffrinUid his ;Vork with
Brvwn.
many fabulofities.

ftall yet have it kijftttcr their faces.

I bejied ;

The brood of folly, without father bttd;

Derbam.

To fprinkle over ; to fcatter over.

fprinkle with dirt or water.
Thofe who will not take vice in(« their bofoms,

Sbaktfpeare.

a.

How little you befttad.

His nuptial bed,
wrought, and

needles

Drydin.
flowers be/freed.
The globe is equally befpread i fo that no place

filth; to fpot or

'V.

Hence, vain deluding joys!

To

fpread over ; to cover over.

Vo Bespa'tter. <v. a. \ixovaJpatter.'\

2.

we

BzsT, ad'v. [fromttv//.] In the higheft de-

with fpew or vomit.
To Bespi'ce. 1). a. [{romfpict.l Tofeafon
with fpices.
Thou might'ft Itjpke a cup

The heav'nsj,^a|;yi»j with diflievell'd light. Ptft,

fitatler.

till

were forced, by contrary winds, into St. Remo.

in one of thy gates, where it liketh him btfl.
To Bespe'ckle. -v. a. \iromfpeckk.'\ To
Dew. xxiii. i6«
mark with fpeckles, or fpots.
Best is fometimes ufed in compofition.
To Bespe'w. f. a. [from^nv.] To dawb

wants proper inhabitants.

His weajMns are the fame »hich women and
children ule ; a pin to fcratch, and a fquitt to ^i:-

Addifon,

We fet fail, and made the btf of our way,

To Bespri'nkle. v. a. [from ^r/n^/«.]

Cwtrnment of thaiTangue.

its

improve to the

had fo little of tlje figure of a man, that it beffokc

To betoken

With orders that be/peak a mind compos'd. jiddij.
Bespe'aker. n. /. [from ie/peak.} He
that befpeaks any thing.
They mean not with love to the be/f taker of

ibmeUong fiiioing.

by throwing

To carry to

the beft.

utmofl.
Let there be freedom to carry their commodities
where they may make the hefi of them, except there
Bacon.
be fome fpecial caufe of caution.
His father left him an hundred drachmas ; Alnafchar, in order to make the bifi of it, laid it out

He has difpatch'd me hence.

To

Not Berenice's locks firft rofe fo bright,

To make

greatcft perfeAion ; to

At length with indignation thus he broke

adorn with fpangles^ (o befprinkle with

foil

3.

Fairy Sluein.

Dear knight.

milieu.

1

I profefs not talking: only this.
Let each man do his befl.
Shaktfptan,
Bacon.
The duke did his be^ to come down.
Locke.
He docs this to the befi of his power.
the
btft, Addif.
My friend, faid he, our fport is at

This fenfe

With hearty words her knight (he 'gan to cheer,
And, in her modeft manner, thus be/fake.

Haften to appeafe
Th* incenfed Father, and th' incenfed Son,
Wbike pardon may be found, in time tefetght.

J.

to addrefs.

To Bespre'ad. w.

bejtecb ; which fee.]

.

;

chiefly poetical.

is

Beso'ught. [freteritt 3ni part. pajhie of

?« B E SF a'n c l e

perfeftion.

When the abbot of St. Martin was born, he

pany; attendance; train.
I crave fit difp )fition for my wife.

makes them fins.
jidJife*,
Thebefi. The utmoft power; the ftrongeft endeavour ; the moft j the higheft

2.

Swift.

And know thcmfelves and you.
Sbokejteare,
Beso'rt. a. /. [from the verb.] Com-

to (lupify ;

To forbode ; to tell fofflething before-

To fpeak to

Lacke.

An evil intention perverts the hefi adions, and

Dryjtit.

hand.

5

to fit; to become.
Such men a« may iefirt your age,

made it fo.

They ftarted fears, btffoki dangers, and formed
ominous prognollicks, in order to (care the allies.
4.

Cod bMh

to fay, I thiolc it heft, and therefore

My preface looks as if 1 were afraid of my

fcBESo'RT. -v. a. [fromy»r/.] To fuit;

;

B E S

To make way by a previous apology.

a.

a proud young fellow came to him for a be/cm upon
truft J the old man faid. Borrow of thy back and
belly, they will never alk thee again ; 1 ihall dun
diee every day.
Sacin.
I will fweep !t with the itfim of deftrudion,
xiv.
faith the Lord of bofis.
IJaiah,
si..

To infatuate

,

B E S

B E S

1.

.

beftiality

1

'

to be the eflcnce of humanity, and dark-

nefs th« center of light i

,

,

,

jbbulbM find Fope'i Mart. Scnil.

Be'sxjaLly.

;

;

.

BET

B E S
BE'sTIAUtV. adv. [from iejlinl.] Bruin a manner below humanity.
tally
-v.

preter. I

a.

\\^st befiuck. [from_/?/V^.]
with any thing ; to mark

beftuck \

ph I have not found the verb

To iHck over
any thing by

Milton,

Rarely to be found.

To Besti'r. a». a. [fromy?i>.]

To put into vigorous aftion. It is
feldom ufed otherwife than with the reciprocal pronoun.
As when men wont to watch

1.

What I am not hejiraugbt.
Shakefpearr.
7ff Best re'w. m. a. particip. pafl". bcjireijed, or beftroivn. [frora_y?rfav.] Tofprinnot.

To Bestri'de. 'V. a, I bejlrid;
1

Like a coloiTus.

2.

am fcarce in breath, my lord.— No marvel
your valour, you cowardly
Sbakcjftart.

!

Dutch.]

{befieden,

1. To give; to confer upon: commonly

with upon.
All men would

willingly have

yielded

him

p»ife ; but hit nature was fuch ai to btftno it
Sidney.
ufon himfelf, before any could give it.
All the dedicated things of the houfe of the Lord
did they beft/ta upon Baalim. 2 Cbriinulei, xj\y. 7.
Sir Julius Carfar had, in his office, the difpofition
of the fix clerks places j which he had beflnoid ta

Hxkir.

He was naoH princely.

Shares with bit lord the pleafure and the pride.
foft.

4. It is ufed fometimes of a man (landing

over fomething which he defends
the
prefent mode of war has put this fenfe
out of ufe.

Sbaitffeare.

To give iH marriage.

Good rev'rcnd father, make my perfon yours ;
And tell me how you would i^«v yourfelf. Shak.
I

could have bc/lo-wtJ her upon a fine gentle-

man, who extremely admired her.
5. To give as a prefent.

And ftruck him o;i his knee:.
Sbakijfeare.
If thou fee me down in the battle, and bejtride

TuiUi,

Pure oil and incenfe on the fire they throw,

And fat of vidtims which his friends brflov). Dryd.

To apply.
The fea was not the duke of Marlborough's
element j otherwife the whole force of the war
woul J infallibly ha\e been bfjimttd there. Sivift.

Siakejfeare.

Cafping for life under great Bolingbroke.

to (low ; to place.

And when he came t'j the Tower, he took thcin
2 Kitjirij V. 24.

Besto'wer. ff.y; [from be/}o--M.]

(3iver ;

he that confers any thing ; difpofer.
They all agree in making one foprcme God

Shak.

tlsanet, but fubordinate to the Svpnme. StiUin^JI.

It fliuns the miat, like g»ld that chynifts make.

Dryden*

As my obfervations have been the light whereby 1 have fteered my courl'e, fo I betake myfelf to
Woodtuari.
them again.

To move

4.

to remove.

;

Soft (he withdrew ; and, like a wo»d nymph light.
Oread or Dryad, or of Delia's train,
Miltcn,
Betook her to the groves.
^

They both betook them fereral ways;
Milton.

Both to deftroy,

To Bete'em. v. a. [from /««,] To bring
forth ; to bellow ; to give.
So would I, faid th' enchanter, glad and fain
Seteem to you his fword, you to defend j
But that this weapon's pow'r I well have ken'd.
To becontrary to thcworkthat ye intend. Fairy
Rain, which I could well
Seteem them from the tempeft of mine eyes. Shak.
To Bethi'nk. v. a. I bethought ; I have

^

To recal to re-

bethought, [from th'ink.^

back

to confideraIt is generally
or recolleftion.
ufed with the reciprocal pronoun, an«[
of before the fubjeft of thought.
They were fooner in danger than they could alfleftion ;

to bring

tion,

moft bethink themfelvei o/change.
Sidney,
I have bethought me of another fault.
Shaktjf.
I,
beticr bethinking myfelf, and mifliking hit

Infatiablc of glory, had

Mi/ten.

BET. »./ [pebbian, to wager; peb, a wager. Sax. from which the etymologifts
derive ief.
I (hould rather imagine it
to come from betan, to mend, increafe,
or better, as a bet increafes the original wager.]
wager; fomething laid
to be won upon certain conditions.

A

Has (Irugglcd with contlnutd forrow,
Renews his hope, And blindly lays
Prior.

Hit pride was in piquette,

Newmarket fame, and judgment at a bet.

Pope.

ger ; to ftake at a wager.
He drew a good bow and dead } John of
Gaunt loved h'un well, and iittid much upon his
head.

loft all

Vet 0/' another plea bethought him foon.

Sbakejftart.

He flies the court for want of clothes
£in Jsnfin.

The god, unhappily engag'd,
Complain'd, and iigh'd, and cry'd, aad fretted.
Loft (Very cwtbly thing he bttttd,
fritr.

Mitlsn.

The nets were laid, yet the birds could never
bethink themfelvti, till hamjiered, and paft recovery,

L^E/frange,
Cherippus, then in time yourfelf bethink,
And what your rags will yield hy auAion fink* Dryd.

A little confideration may allay his heat, an4
make him bethink himfelf, whether this attempt ba
worth the venture.

Locke.

[See

Bedlam,]

An hofpical for lunaticks,
Be'thlkhemitk, », /, [See Bedlam-

A

ite.]
lunatick ; an inhabitant of
a madhoufe.

To wa- Betho'ught, particip.

To Bet, f. a. [from the noun.]

Raleigh.

He himfelf,

BE'THLEHEM, ». /,

The hoary fool, who many days

;

•nd that there are fevcral beings that are to be
him 5 (nmt ai the brjli/tveri ot

with the reciprocal pronoun.
With Cafe fuch fond chimeras we purfue.
As fancy frames for fancy to fubdue s
But when curfelves to aftion we betake.
:

determination, gave liim this order.

Cries out 'gainft cocking, fincc he cannot htt,

worrtiipped under

Milton.

To apply

3.

And fo bfjiud with ftars, that they below
Would gruw inur'd to light.

:

from their h.ind, and btji'^ived them in the lioufe.

Sbakefftarl,

The reft, in imitation, to like arms
Betook them, and the neighbouring hills up tore.

withfiudj, or ftiining prominences.
Th' unfought diamonds
Would fo emblaze the forehead of the deep.

The defp'rare bet upon to-morrow.

And thou ihalt brjino that money for whatfoever
thy foul luileth after, for oxen, flieep, or for wine.
Devt, xiv, 16.
;

a point of friendfliip.

To Bestu'd. v. a. [from^W.] To adorn

To layout upon.

Td lay up

'tis

He doth beflride a bleeding land,

Spain to your gift alone her Indies owes
For what the powerful takes not, he bejliwt. Dry J,
You always exceed expectations : as if yours
was not your own, but to bejlnv on wanting merit.
Dryden.

S.

The bounding fteed you pompoufly btjiride

me, fo ;

And though he was unfatisficd in getting.
Which was a fin ; yet in bcfl<Aving, maJam,

7.

That horfe, that thou fo often haft brfind ;
That horfe, that I fo carefully have drefs'd. Sbak.
Venetians do not more uncouthly ride.
Than did theirlubber ftate mankind bijiride. Dryd.

i'

p-jyird for his fake, without reward.

6.

He bejiridei the lazy pacing clouds.
And fails upon the bofom of the air. Shahjpure.

Slew three oppofers : Tarquin's felf he met.

witncfs, that there

for they are heavier

To nothing but defpaij-.

is

Our Saviour dnch plainly

fliould not be as much as a cup of cold water be-

4.

often ufed, in the confequential
fenle, for to ride on.
It

He btjirid
An o'erprefs'd Roman, and th' confol's view

Ciareitdon.

;

Hooktr,

!

Than all thy woes can ftir : therefore heiake ihte

Shakefftare.

To give as charity or bounty.

fuch perfons as he thought lit.

Do not repent thefe things

U^aUer,

:

2. Sometimes with to.

3.

my threlhold.

Brftride

3.

word.

rafcal

Thou tyrant

!

2. It is ufed by Sbakeffeart with a common

To BESTO'Wi f. a.

brought to defperate extremities,

Thou noble thing more dances my rapt heart.
Than when I firft my wedded miftrefi faw

Ray.

h/fiirrid

Then to his hands that writ he did betake.
Which he dikliling read.
Spenfer.
2. To have recourfe: to : with the reciprocal pronoun.
The adverfe party betaking itfelf to fuch practices as men embrace, when they behold things

Sbakcfpcare.

Alk his confent to ufe the fca and wind.
To ftep over.
That I fee thee here.

[from take.^

betaken,

To take ; to feize r an obfolete fenfe.

have be-

Make him bejiride the ocean, and mankind

_

I

pafl".
1

[from ftride.'\
To ftride over any thing ; to hare any
thing between one's legs.
Why, man, he doth bcflridc the narrow world

from each tender ftalk

But, as a dog that turns the fpit,
BtJIiri hbnfilf, and plies his feet
To climb the wheel, but all in vain.
Hit own weight brings him down again. Hudiiras.
What aileth them, that they muft needs iiflir
themfeliut to get in air, to maintain the creature's

yoo have fo

I

Bjan*

To BetVke. <v. a. preter. I betook ; part.

So thick biftrKvn,
Abjeft and loft lay thcfe, covering the flood. Milt.

Whatever earth, all-bearing mother, yields,
Miltcn.
She gathers.

»

He ftaid for a better hour, till the hammeT hal
wrought ani bet the party more pliant.

firid, or bejiriddtn.

Rouze and btjlir thmjtl-va ere well awake. Milton.

life

!

kle over.

On duty, deeping found by whom they dread,
Bijiirt ber [hen, and

Bet. The old preterite of beat.

by ana-

;

logy we may derive it from beftraH ; perhaps it is corrupted from diftraught .^
Di drafted ; mad ; out of one's fenfes ;
out of one's wits.
Alk Marian, the fat afewifc, if ihe knew me

I

infixing points or pots hero and there.
Truth (liall retire,
Jicjiuck with flanderous d^rts ; ^nd works of faith

B E 1*

Best R a'u g h t. particip. [Of this fartkt-

;

To Besti'ck.

;

.

[from hetbink i

which fee.]

7« Bethra L, 1/. <», [from thraJl.'] Ta
enilave ; to conquer j to bring into fub->
jeftion.

No let that wicked woman 'fcape away,
For (he it is that did my lord beihial. Shakcfpeare.
[from thump.] To
beat ; to lay blows upon : a ludicrou

TsBethu'mp, v, a.
word,

Aa »

I

WH

;

;

;.

.

T» Beto'm v. a. [from to/t.] To diftarb

1 VMS nerer (o iahvnipt with «orJ>«
Since Aril 1 calld my brother'j father dad. Shak.
T» Reti'db. v. n. preu // betidtd, or

Did not attend him as we rode r

To BETRA-Y. v. a.

:

Said he then to the palmer, rtvciend fire,
?

Sftnpr.

But fay, if our ddWcrer up to beav'n
Muft reakend, what will betid* the few.
His faithful, left among th' unfaithful herd,

The furniies of truth ?

1

I

Neither know I

fuccours vrhich reafon oA<9i:th.
I

Shaiefptare.

To come to pafs

to fall out ; to hap-

;

reward, to betray the city.

Shakifftari.
Of woeful ages, long ago betid.
Let me hear from thee by letters
Of thy fuccefs in love ; and what news elfe
Shakeff.
Stiidtib here in abfence of thy friend.

To become

with of.
to be the fate
If he were dead, what would betide of thee ?

4.

;

Whiles they are weak, *«/<«« withthjm contend j
For when they once to perfeQ ftrength do grow.
Strong wars they majce.

Sfenfrr.

He tires betimes, that fpur; too fiaft betimtt. Sbak.
There be fome hawe an over early ripenefs in
which fadeth betimes : thefe arc firtt,
fuch as have brittle wio, the edge whereof is foon
their years,

Bacon.

turned.

Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth
that is, enter apon a religious courfe betimei. TilhtJ.
Shoit ib the date, alas of modern rhymes
Pcfe.
And 'tis hut juft to let them live betimes,
!

3. Early in the day.

He that drinks all night, and is hanged betimes
in the morning, may fleep the founder next day.
Shakcffeare.
They rofe beiisnes in the morning, and offered
iv. 51.
i
Mace.
facrifice.

Bb'tlb. la./, [pipe aduherinum.l An
Indian plant, called water
Be'tre. 3
DiS.
pepper.
7» Beto'ken. 1/. a. [{torn token.]
1.

To fignify to mark to reprefent.
We know not wherefore churchei Oiould be the
;

;

vrorfe, if, at this time,

when

they are delivered

into God'i own poffeflion, ceremonies fit to betoken
fuch intents, and to accompany fuch anions, be
Hotktr.

nfuaU

A

dewy cloud, and in the cloud a bow
Confpicuous with three lifted colours gay,
Betokening peace from God.

To forcftiow

Afi/teit.

to prefignify.
The kindling azure, and the mountain's brow
Illum'd with fluid gold, his near approach
Tbomjin.
Bdokcn glad.
plant,
Be'tony.». yl [betoniea, hi.t.']

2.

;

A

greatly efteemed as a vulnerary herb.
Msller.

BiTo'oK. [irrtg, fret, frojn betake ; which
fee.]

thing entrufted.

tinc.
I

;.

your ignorance.

IVatls.

To make liable to fall into fomething

have feen better faces in ray time.

Before ftie at this inftant.

Shakcffeare,

Having a defire to depart, and be with Chrift ;
which is far better,
B hi/iffiani.

The Bb'tter.
1.

The fuperiority ; the advantage

:

with

the particle c/" before him, or that, over

inconvenient.

which the advantage is gained.
The Corinthians, that morajng, as the days

His abilities created him great confidence ; aad
this was like enough to betray him /n great errours.
Kitig Charles.

before, had the better.

Sidney,

The bright genius is ready to be fo forward, as

The voyage of Drake and Hawkins wa» un-

often bttrays itielf i»/« great errours in judgment.

fortunate ; yet, in fuch fort, as doth not break
our prefcription, to have had the better of the SpaBacem,
niards.
Dionyfius, his countryman, in an epiftle to
Pompey, after an exprefs comparifon, affords h'un
Broun 1 t^ulg. Errours,
the better of Thucydiocs.
You think fit
To get the better of me, and you fliall
Since you will have it fo— I will be yours.

H^atis.

To Ihow

to difcover.
and defpair.
Which marr'd his bwrow'd vifage, and bttray''d
Jaillon.
Him counterfeit, if any eye beheld.
The Veian and the Gabian tow'rs fltall fall,
And one promifcuous ruin cover all j
Nor, after length of years, a ftone betray
The place where once the very ruins lay. Mdifui.
that
Bzt^a'yes.. It./, [from ^«r<ty.]
6.

frowning than the count PadaShakeff. Mtrch, of yenite,

Than ftand on any fiioulders that 1 fee

Milt.

Be fwift to hear, but be cautious of your tongue,

Send fuccoun, lords, and ftop the rage betitiK.

Toward folid gosd what leads the nearcft vw. Mi/i.
Soon ; before long time has pafled.

better bad habit of

left you betray

Seafonably; early; before it is late.

2.

He has a horlc better than the Neapoliun's ; a

To expofe to evil by revealing fome-

better concealed.

Beti'mb. lad-v. [from ^and time; that
Beti'mes. J is, by the proper time.]
Shaktj'ftare.

ing good qualities in a greater degree
than fomething elfe. See Gooo.

To make known fomething that were

4.

:

To meafure life learn thou ietimet, and know

Be'tter. <m)'. The comparative oi good.
[bet, good, becepa, better. Sax.] Hav-

Knolles.

How would'll thou again betray me,
Bearing my words and doings to the Lord !

Shokejptare.

1.

Grew,
Whatfoever you would betrufi to your memory,
ffattt,
let it be difpofed in a proper method.

trufted to fecrecy.
3.

Sfinfir.

In winter's tedious nights, fit by the fire
WSth good old folks, and let them tell thee talcs

capacit) will allow us, or his fufficiency encourage
us, to h«pe for, either in this life, or that to come.

To difcover that which has been en-

2.

pen : without the perfon.
She, when her turn was come ha tale to tell.
Told of a ftrange adventure that ieiidtd
Betwixt the fox, and th' ape by him mifguided.

IVifiUm.

He was not to be won, either by promife or

'

Perplext in all.

in confidence of fidelity.
Betruft him with all the good which our own

Chroniclei.

Jefus faid unto them. The Son of man (hall
Manheiu.
be betrayed into the hands of men.
For fear of nothing elfe but a betraying of the

Milton.

What U Utid It Cloten j but remain

To Betru'st. 11. a. [from tru/l.] To entruft ; to put into the power of another,

of our fathers look thereon, and rebuke it.

'

Sometimes it has to.

3.

Sbake^tare.

[trabir. Fr.]

To give into the hands of enemies by
treachery, or breach of trull with to
before the perfoo, otherwife into.
If ye be cume to betray me to mine enemiea,
feeing there is no wrong in mine hands, the Cod

1

:

To nominate to a bilhoprick, in order
to confecration.
If any perfon be confecrated a bifliop to that
church, whereunto he was not before beirothrd, be
ftrall not receive the habit of confecration, as not
being canonically promoted.
^liS*'

What faid my man, when my iei^ffcd foul

put. pair, betid, [from lib. Sax.

WbH great miafonune hailk baid this knigh:

3.

to agitate ; to put into violent motion.

See Tide.]
1. To happen to ; to befal ; to bechance,
whether good or bad with tlie peribn.

2.

BET

BET

BET
bttid r

;

;

Ire, envy,

Soiiihente,

The gentleman had always fo much ilx better of
the fatirift, that the perlbns touched did not know

He

betrays ; a traitor.

where to fix their refcntment.

The wife man doth fo fay of fear, that it is
a betrayer of the forces of reafonable underftand
Hooker.

mg.

You caft down your courage through fi;ar, the
iefrjyer of all fuccours which reafon can afford.
Sir y. Haytvard.

They are only a few betrayers of their country ;
they are to purchafe coin, perhaps at half price,
and vend it among us, to the ruin of the publick.
Sivifi.

To Betri'm. t. a. [from/r/m.] Todeck ;
to drefs ; to grace ; to adorn ; lO embell ifli ; to beautify ; to decorate.
Thy banks with pioiicd and twilled brims.

2.

Improvement}

Pritr,

\i, for the better, fo as

to improve it.
If 1 have akered him any where ySr the bttttrt
I nmft at the fame time acknowledge, that I
Dry den,
could have done nothing without him.

[comparative of <weIL^
Well, in a greater degree.
Then it was better with me than now. Hofea,

Bb'tter. adv.

Better a

mechanick rule were ftrccched or bro»

Dryden,
ken, than a great beauty were omitted.
The belter to underftand the extent of our
obfcrved.
Lccke,
thing
is
to
be
knowledge, one
He that would know the idea of infinity, cannot
do tetter, than by cnnfidering to what infinity i«

Which fpungy April nt thy heft hetrims.
Lickt,
attributed.
Sbakejp.
To make cold nvmfhs cha'tc crowns.
the
noun.]
[from
a.
v.
Be'tter.
To
le[from
troth;
a.
Betro'th.
v.
To
troweit, Dutch.]
I. To improve ; to mcVorate.
The c;mfe of his taking upon him our nature,
1. To contraft to any one, in order to
was to bitter the quality, and to advance the con-,
marriage ; to afEance : ufed either of
He, in the firft flower of my frelheft age.
Betrothed me unto the only heir
Of a raoft mighty king, moll rich and fage.

To her,
Was I betrothed, ere 1

Hermia faw.

furnilhed with my opinion, which ia
Shakcffeare,
bettered with his own learning.
Heir to all his lands and goods.

He

is

Which I have better d, rather than dccrcas'd. Siak.

Spenjer.

But Jonathan, to whom both hearts were known.
With well-rlm'd zeal, and with an artful care,

Shakcffeare.

Reftor'd and belter''d foon the nice affair. Cowley,
The church of England, the pureft and beft reformed cliurch in the world ; fo well reformed,
that it will be found eafier to alter than bilur its
South,
conftitution.

my lord.

By foul's publick piomife (he

Was foKI then, »nd hcrnth'd to V.Qory. Cowley.
2. To have, as affianced by promife of
marriage.
And what man is there that hath beirotked a
wife, and hath not taken her ? 1« him go and return into his houfe.

Hooker.

dition thereof.

men or women.

Dtuteronony

The Romans took pains to hew out a paffage
for thefe lakes to difcharge themfelves, for the betlerinr of the ait,

'

Addipn.
2.

To

;

BET
a.

B E

To furpafs ; to exceed.

1.

The works of nature do always ilm
which cannot be heitered*

at

Nature herfelf has call a bar betwixt.

when you fpealc fwcet,

have you do it ever>

iibakejpean,

to fupport.
king thought his lionour would

Be'tter. n./. [from the adjeftive.] Superior; one to whom precedence
be given.

is to

Their tellers would be hardly found, if they did
not live am^ng men, but in a wildeinefs by them-

Hnler.

fclves.

The courtefy of nations allows you my better,

Be'vel. In, y; In mafonry and joinery.
Be'vil.j a kind of fquare, one leg of
which is frequently crooked, according
to the fweep of an arch or vault.
It is
moveable on a point or centre, and fo
may be fet to any angle. An angle that
is not fquare, is called a bevil angle,
.whether it be more obtufe, or more

mighty grateful to your betttrsy

acute, than a right angle.

Sbateffearc,

Aai makes e'en gods tfaemfelves your debtors.

my

To Be'vel, 1/. a. [from the noun.] To cut

One that

to a bevel angle.
Thefe rabbets are ground fquare ; but the rabbets on the groundfel arc bevelietl downwards, that
rain m.<y thi freelier fall off.
Moxon.

1 obiesved a llraiiger among them of a gentcelcr
behaviour than ordinary ; but, notwithllanding he

See Beaver.
Be'verace. »./ [from ievtre, to drink,

Sivift.

liarving.

[from To bet.']

lays bets or wagers.

wa^ a very fair bettor, nobody would take him up.

Be'ttv. »./. [probably a cant word, fignifying an inllrument which does what
by a maid within.] An
inllrument to break open doors.

In the intermediate fpace.
What modes

Of fmell the headlong lionefs bitvjeen,
And hound fagacious on the tainted green ? Pope.
noting inter2. From one to another
:

courfe.

To Bewe'ep. t;. a, [fromwfiT/.] To weep
over or upon; to bedew with tears.
Old fond <:ycs,
Bcweep this caufe again ; I'll pluck ye out,
And caA you, with the waters that you lofe.

To temper clay,

He fliould think himiclf unhippy,

if things

go fo benvfen them, as he thouid not be
able tu acquit himtelf »/ ingratitude towards them
Ba*cn,

bnfh.

Of wine and honey mix'd.

With true love fliowers.

To Bewe't.

Baccn,

tfpprafed.

Friendlhip requires, chat it be batveen two at
leaft } and there can be no friendlhip w;icre there
South,
arc not two fnends.

Noting difference, ordiftindion of one
from the other.
Their natural conllitutions put fo wide a diffethat art would never

rence betiveta fome men,

Locke.

maftcr.

Children quickly diflinguilh betvieen what
rcquiied of them, and what not.

is

Locke.

b properly ufed of two, and

6. Beiiiuen

among of more ; but perhaps this accunot always preferved.

[bcrpyx, Saxon, It has
the fame lig-rficLition with iettutta, and

'Bi.TV.'iXT

.

prep,

u indiiTereatl/ ufcd for it.]

a.

[from lui/d,]

To

We no f-dution of our queiiion hisd

i

Your Words bewilder, not direct the mind,
BLickuwret
Our underftanding traces 'em in vain.
Loft and bewildcr'd in the fruitlcfs fearch, jiliJif,
It

is

lelves in

good lumctimes to lofe and bewilder ourfuch tludics.
ft^atts*

To Bewi'tch. v. a. [ftotti 'witch.']
1. To injure by witchcraft, or fafcination,
or charms.
L'iok how I am bewitch'd^ behold, mine arm

A treat at firft coming into a prifon,

Is like a Walled fapling wither'd up.

Shaltefpeare,

havelorcfworn his company hourly this twenty
years, and yet I am bewitched with the rogue's

Be'vy. n.f. [iei:a, Ital.]
I.

-v.

to perplex ; to
entangle ; to puzzle.
We parted thus ; 1 homeward fped my way,
Benvilder^d in the wood till dawn of day. Dryden*

clothes.

1.

To wet >

want of a plain road ;

called alfo garnijh.

whether Cailor and Pollux, with only
one foul beiveen thtro, which thinks and perceives
in one whit the other is never confciout ot, are
not two diftin^ pcrfons ?
Lttke.
4. Bearing relation to two.
If there be any dilcord or fuits bettveen them
and any of the family, they arc compounded and

Shakefpeare,

[from turt.]

lofe in pathlefs places ; to confound, for

Scarce dewy bevrage for the bees provides. Dryd.

4.

a.

Sbaktjpeart.i Titus Andronicttt,

To Bewi'lder.

Dryden.

Bmerage, or water cyder, is made by
putting the mare into a fat, adding
water, as you defire it ftronger or fmaller. The water fhould ftauJ forty-eight
hours on it, betoic; you prefs it ; when
it is preHcd, tun it up immediately.
Mortimer.
3. A treat upon wearing a new fuit of

"v,

to moiften ; to bedew ; to water.
His napkin, with h;i true tears all beivet^
Can do no fcrvice on her forrowful cheeks.

The coarfe lean gravel on the mountain fides

Belonging to two in partnerfliip.
aik,

Sbakefpeare.

Larded all with fwcet flowers

Which bewept to the grave did go

Brcmint Vulgar Errours.

fliould

racy

beivare, he luill beiuare ; but l^ot, ht did
beivare or he has been <uiare.

I.

^wfl.]

is

be : thus we fay, />e may bewiiare, let him

A pleafant beverage he prcpar'd before

^rburbnct.

5.

Drink ; liquor to be drank in general.
1 am his cupbearer
Grains, puifcs, and all forts of fruit», cither
bread or beverage may be made almoft o^ all.

fcrioing the powerful betty, or the artful picklock.

I

fuch forms of fpeech as admit the word

If from me he have wholefome bnereg*.
Account me not your lervanC.
Sbakifpeare,

Kecord the ftrjCagems, the ardjous exploits,
and the noflumal (calades of needy heroes, de-

3.

You muft^rti^flrt-c/" drawing or painting cjouds,
winds, ami thunder, towards the bottom of your
piece.
Dryden.
Every one ought to be very careful to beiQare
what he admits for a principle.
Locke,
Warn'd by the fylph, oh pious maid, beware!
This to difclofe is all thy guardian can j
Betvare r,f ?\:^ h'wx. mo{i beware of md.t\.
Pope,
2. It is obfervable, that it is only ufed in

Ital.]

is too often done

J^stwe'en. fref, [bec]9eonan, becpman,
Saxon ; from the original word %pa,

To regard with caution; to be fufpi-

Be'ver.

I.

See

cious of danger from : generally the
particle of goes before the thing which
excites caution.

Build. Dia.

Their houfcs are very ill built, their walls bc.iil,
without one right angle in ajiy apartment. Sivift.

Prhr.
1 have fame gold and filver by me, and Aiall be
bellen are
able to make a iliift, when many of

1.

Shakejpeare.

That ye thus Kol'pitably live,

in that y.'U arc the lirll-born.

Be'ttor.

1,

Dryden.

riage

Betv>ixt myfelf and her,

Baccn,

thus, in an old

nifli.]

Five years fince there was fome fpeech of marfuffer,

:

have found be ye ware.

Wary. liepapiaii, Saxon; oyor^r. Da-

From one to another.

2.

;

». /.

treatile, I

If contradiftLng interefts could he mixt.

during a treaty, to better a party.

"Is

ivarj ; that is, cautious
Ml/ton.

This only place betwixt the clouds is clear. Drjiti,

What you do

The

To Bewa're, tt, n, [from b( and txiecrey or

hand,
Our Spanijh army and your Indians Hand ;

Shakeffeare.

To advance

In themidft of two.

Metbinks, like two blade ftorm^, on cither

tion, than you muft expedt of me to tell you.

3.

BE W

From betwixt two aged oaks.

Hoakcr,

bis age j he hach, indeed, better bittertd expecta-

l*d

W

Hard by, a cottage chimney fmokes

ttiat

He hath borne himfeif beyond the promife of

Still titteri what is done j

;

1

A flv5ck of birds.
A company an afiembly.

If the rafcal has not given me medicines to make me love him, I'll be hang'd
Sbak.

Company.

;

.'

And in th;; midft thereof, upon the floor,

My flocks are free from love, yet look fo thin

A Icvely be^y of fair ladies fat.
Courted of many a jolly paramour.

They on the plain
Long had not walk'd, when, from the tents, behold
A bevy of fair women,
Miltor,

Nor rode tije nymph alone
Around a bevy of bright da:ofels flione.

Pope.

To Bewa'il. v. a. [from txiail.] To bemoan; to lament ; to exprefs forrow for.
In this city he

Hath widow'd and unchilded many a one.

Which to this hour bewail the injury.
Sbakejp.
Yet wifcr Ennius gave command to all
His fricodi, not to bewail his funeral.
Sir Jobn Denbam.

cannot but bewail, as in their hril principles,
tiie mifcrics and calamities of our children. AddiJ,
I

To Bewa'il. v. n. To exprefs grief.
Thy ambition.
Thou fcatlet fin, robb'd this hcwailing land
Of noble Budunghaot, tax tathcr-in-law. Sbak,

;

What magick has bewitcb'd the woolly dams,
And what ill cycj beheld the tender lambs ? DryJ,

Fairy S^een,

2.

To charm; to pleafe to fuch a degree,
as to take away the power of relillance.
Doth even beauty beautify.
And mod bewitcb the wretched eye,
Sidney,
The cliarms of poetry our fouls bewitch;
The curfe of writing is an endlel's itch. Drydettm
I do not know, by the ch.iraaer that is given
of her works, whether it is not for the benefit of
mankind that they were loft j they were filled
with fuch bewitching tcndernefs and rapture, that
it might have been dangerous to have given them
a reading,
Mdifon.

Bewi'tchery,
Fafcination ;

«,

/

charm ;

[from

be'ivitch.J

reftiUefs

preva-

lence.
There is a certain bcwilclery, or fafcination, in
words, which makes them operate with a force
beyond what we can give aa account of.
South*

Bewi'tch-

.

;

BEY
Bewi'tchmSnt. n. /.

B I A

1 will counterfeit the bno'ucbiKent ot" I'omc po-

TOffff

Sidney,
mit the idolatry.
That no man go beyond, and defraud his brother
i 71']^, iv. 6.
in any matter.

Sbaktfptare,

y» BEWRA'y. V. a. [pjiejan, beppejan,

To betray

;

to difcover perfidioufly.

Fair feeling words lie wilely 'gan difplay.
And, for her humour Atting purpofe, fain
To tempt the caufe itfelf for to Irwray* Fahy ^.

To (how

X.

to

;

make vifible

tliis

word

in Philodca's

cheeks

:

Bi'zEL. In./. That part of a ring in
Be'zil. 5 which the ftone is fixed.
BE'ZOAR. »./. [from /a, againft, and
xahar, poifon, Perfick.] A ftone, formerly in high efteem as an antidote,
and brought from the Eaft Indies, where
it is faid to be found in the dung of an
animal called prncan ; the ftone being

now little in ufe.

is

She faw

a pretty bluffi

''hnvray a modeft difcontentmcnt.

Sidney\

formed in its belly, and growing to the
fize of an acorn, and fometimes to that
of a pigeon's egg. Its formation is now
fuppofed to be fabulous. The name is
applied to feveral chymical compofitions, defigned for antidotes ; as mineral, folar, and jovial hexoars.

Men do fometimes bnvray that by deeds, which
.to confcfs they arc hardly drawn.

Hockfr,

Next look on him that fcems for counfeL fit,

Whofe filver locks tctvray his ftore of days. Fa'irf,
n. f. [from heivray.'\
Be-

Sewra'yer.

trayer ; difcoverer ; dlvulger.
"When a friend is turned into an enemy, and »
•

hrwraycr of fecrets, the world
accufe the perfidioufncfs of the friend.
is

Bevo'nd. pre^.

juft

enough to
Adiiijon.

bejeonban,

[be5«ont>,

Saxon.]
C. Before ; at a diftance not yet reached.

What 's fame ? a fancyM life in others breath,

A thing beyond us, ev*n before our death.*
Tuft what you hear, you have.
a. On the farther fide of.
Neither

Tope.

beyond the fea, that thou Oiouldft
ihall^o oyer the Tea for us, and bring it
fay.
Deut. xxx. 13.
'unto us?
Now we are on land, we are but between death
is

it

Who

ani liffr; iorwe ucJieymd the old world and the

Savory. Chambers.
Bhzoa'rdick. adj. [from ^rzoar.] Medicines compounded with bexoar.

The bexoardickt are necclTary to promote fweat,
Fkycr.
and drive forth the putrificd particles.

Bia'nculated. 1 fl/^'. [from binus and
Did.
two corners or angles.
BI'AS. n.f, [biais, Fr. faid to come from
bJhry, an old Gaulilh word, fignifying
crofs or t/jiuart,']

The weight lodged on one fide of a
bowl, which turns it from the ftraight

1.

Bacon,
cannot think men Itjond fea will part with
Locke,
their money for nothing.

We

Stays not, but looks beyond it on the flcy. JUrbert,

line.

Yet thefe declare
Thy goodnefs beymd thought, and pow'r divine.
Milton,

The juft, wife, and goad God neither does nor
<an lequire of man any thisg that is impoflible,
«r .naturally beyond his power to do.

One thing, in this enormous accident, is, 1
fyaton.
jnuO confefs, to me beyond sU wonder,
To his expences, bcyor.d his income, aild del>aucbery, idlenefs, and quarrels amongll h'.s fcr-

Tants,

whereby his manufa£lure( are difturbcd,

Locke,
«nd his bufincfs n(*gle<%cd.
As far as they carry conviftion to any man's
irfe
be
of
beyond
labour
may
oinderftanding, my
the evidence it carries v/ith it, 1 advife him not to
:

follow any man's iiiterprctatioa.

Locke.

Above in excellence-

<6.

Remote from ; not within the fphere of.

y.

With equal mind, what happens, let us bear

Nor joy, nor grieve, too much for things beyond
our care.

t.

^rydeni Fiibles,

Vego iejonJ, is to deceive; to circumvent.

fip ;

yUdifon,

To tipple; to

to drink frequently.

He

playeth with bibbing mother Meroc, as
though fo named, becaufe ihe would drink mere
wine without water.
Camden.

To .-.ppcaie a froward child, they gave him
drink as often as he cried ; fo that he was conftantly biibirg, and drank more in twenty-four
hours than I did.
Locke.

Biba'cious. <7rfy. [biiaXylAt.'] Addifted
to drinking.

Diil.

Biba'city. n.f,

[bibacitas, Lat.]

The

quality of drinking much.

Bi BBER. n.f. [from To bib,] A tippler;
a man that drinks often. ^
Bi'BLE.».y: [from |SiGaio», a book; called,
. by way of excellence. The Book,']
The
facred volume in which are contained
the revelations of God.
If we pafs from the apoftolick to the next ages
of the church, the primitive chriftians looked oa

moft important treafure.
Government of the Tongue,
We muft take heed how we accuftom ourfelves
to a flight and irreverent ufe of the name of God,
and of the phrafes and expreffions of the holy
bible, which ought not to be applied upon every
tlieir bibles as their

TilUifin.

terary hiftory, and in the knowledge of

You have been millook:
But nature to her bias drew in that.

This is that boafted bias of thy mind.
By which one way to dulnefs 'tis inclin'd. Dryden.
Morality influences men's Uvea, and gives a bias

Di.^.

Locke,

BibliOTHe'caL. adj, [from bibliotheca,
Lat.] Belonging to a library.
Di3.
Bi'bulous. ndj, \_bibulus, Lat.] That

Wit and humour, that expofc vice and folly,

which has the quality of drinking moif-

to all their aftions.
furnifli ufeful diverfions. Raillery,

under fuch re-

gulations, unbends the mind from feverer contemplations, without throwing it olF from its proper

ture ; fpungy.
Strowd bibulus above,

I fee the

fands.

The pebbly gravel next, and gultcr'd rocks. Tbomf.

AddXjont Freeholder,
Thus nature gives us, let it check our pride.
The virtue neareft to our vice ally'd ;
Rc.ifon the bias turn;, to good or ill. '
Vtfe,

Bica'psular. adj, {bicapfularis Lat.]
Having the feed veflel divided into two

Propenfion ; inclination.
As for the religion of our poet, he fcems to
have fome little^/^j towards the opinions of Wick-

Bice. n. f. The name of a colour ufed in

bias,

3.

books ; a tranfcriber.

Shakefpeari.

Dryden,

liff.

To Bi'as. 'V. a. [from the noun.] To incline to fome fide ; to balance one way ;
to prejudice.
Were 1 in no more danger to be mifled by
ignorance, than I

am to be bi,i/Jid by intered, J

might give a very pcrfe^ account.

,

parts.
It is either green or blue.
.•
Take green bice, and order ir as you do your
blue bice; you may diaper upon it with the water

painting.

of deep green.

While men believe bicifitout conformation in
any fpecies, they admit a gemination of principal
partsBrcivnt l^tilgar Errcuru

Locke,

ment ftran^^ely ; by indifferent for every thing
ffalts,

feems to be ufed aJ'verbially in the following paflage, conformably to the French meltre une chofe
de biais, to give any thing a wrong

Bi'as. ad'v.

2.

It is

applied to one of the mufcles of

the arm.

It

A piece cf flelh it exchanged from the bicipital
mufclc of either party's arm. Brcwrt^s ^i-lg. Err,
To BI'CKER. 1/. «.

\_bicre,

Welfli, a con-

teft.]

interpretation.
Every aftion that hath gone before.

Feacham,

Bici'PiTAt.
7 "'i'- \biccps, bicipitis,
Bici'piTOUs. J
Lat.]
Having two heads.
1

A defirc leaning to cither fide, bla^^es the Judgbut truth, you will be excited to examine,

His fatirrs are incomparably i^'W Juvenal's,
if to laugh and rally, is to be preferred to railing
Drydtn,
and declaiming.

To BIB. -K. n. [b^bo, Lat.]

BiBLio'cRAPHER. n,/. [from ^iCxo?, and
y^cctpu, to write.]
A man (killed in li-

riches,

jiarentage, goodnefs, and love of his people, beyond
Sidney,
jny of the great men of my country.

would fain know, why it Ihould not be ai
taflc to write upon a bib and hanging,

flecves, as on the bulla and fratexia,

ticular courfe, or gives the direction to

his meafures.

Bentliy.

than.
Timotheus was a man botli in power,

1

noble a

In queftions of natural religion, we Ihould confirm and improve, or connedt our reafonings by
the divine afliftance of the bible,
IVatts,

Above i proceeding to a greater degree

5.

Sbakej^care^i Trcilus and Crc£jda.

Bib. n.f, A iinall piece of linen put upon
the breafts of children over their clothes.

flight occafion.

Madam, we'll play at bowls

South.

Confider the fituation of our earth ; it is placed
fo conveniently, that plants tlourifli, and animals
ViTC : thij is matter of faft, and beyond all difpute.

Blow till tby bias cheek
Outlwcll the cholic of puft Aquilon.

—Twill make me think the world is full of rubs.
And that my fortune runs againft the bias. Sbak,
2. Any thing which turns a man to a par-

^. Paft ; out of the reach of.
Beyond the infinite and boundlefs reach
Of mercy, if thou didft this deed of deatU,
Sbakiffeare.
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.

J <3»^«/«j,Lat.] Having

Bia'kgulous.

4iew*

J. Farther onward than.
He that fees a dark and (hady gro«.

while he ftill thought he
beyond her, becaufe his heart did not com-

berfome and coftly ;

puluman, and give it bauntifuUy to the defiren.

I.

In the following paflagc it feems t<i
be an adjedlive. Swelled, as the bowl
on the biajcd fide. This is not ufed.

She made eameft benefit of hil jell, forcing
him to do her fuch fervices, as were both tum-

[from iemiiteh.]

Fafcination ; power of charming.

Saxon.]

B I C

I.

To ikirmilh

;

to fight without a fet

Whereof we have record, trial did draw

battle ; to fight off and on.

B'm and thwart, not anfwcring the aim.
Shikejfeckre" t TnUut and Crejfida.

in{, and loft his figure.

They fell to fuch a bickering, that he got a li.iltSidney,

In

;
..

!

a little abread ; which is their gefture, when they
bid any welcome.
Ba on.
How, Didius, (h:ill a Roman, f"re r»p Is'd,

In thy face
t fee ttijr fiiry J if I longer ft«y,
(hall begin our ancient hUkinngs, Sbatiffean.

We
To quiver

2.

Greet your arrival to this dil^ant ifle ?

; to play backward and forward.
And from about h!m 6erce effufion rowlM

How bid you welcome to thele fliat;er'd le^ims ?
ji,'Piilifi.

6.

Of fmoke, ind bickering Aame, and fparkles dire.

;-'.

/

Bi'cKERN.

[from the verb.]

A

Yet braves his foes, reviles, provokes, dtfdains

An

corrupted
iron ending in a

fonistim;s made with
a pike, or lickint, or bcakiron, at one end. Af'iXon.

7.

We (hould be too critical, to quertion the letter
Y, or bicomcut element of Pythagoras } that is, the
making of the horns equal. Brmjn*i Vulgar Err,
Bico'rporal. <ii^'. [^/«r/or, Lat.] Having two bodies.
To BID. f. a. pret. I biJ, bad, hade, I
\izv6 bidt.OT bidden, [bibban, Saxon.]
;

8.

By fame haycock, or fome fhady thorn,
Dryden,

An
n.f. [from bid and ale.^
invitation of friends to drink at a poor

Bi'dale.

Go ye into the highways, and, as many as you

man's houfe, and there

Mall, xxii. 9.

To command

;

1.

to order : before things

Saint Withold footed thrice the wold.
He met the nightmare, and her nine fold,
Bid her alight, and her troth plight. Shaieffurc.
He chid the fifters.
When firft they put the name of king upon me.
And bade them fpeak to him.
Sbakiffurt,
Hade to the houfe of ileep, and bid the god.
rules the nightly viiions with a nod.
Prepare a dream.
Vryden't Fablts,
Curfe on the tongue that bidi this general jay,
they be friends of Antony, who revel
When Antony's in danger ? Dryd, Ail fir Lrve,
Thames heard the numbers, as he flow'd along,
And badt his willows learn the moving fong. Pcpc.
Acquire a government over your ideas, that they
nay come when they are called, and depart when
they are brddtn.
ffjitt.

Did,

2.

Invited.
There were two of our company bidden to a feaft
of the family.
Bunn,
Madam, the bidden gnefts are come. A, Pbilifs,

Pofie't

At his fecond bidding, darknefs fled.
Light Oione, and order from diforder fprung. Milt.

commonly to abide.
Poor naked wretches, wherefoe'er you are,
That i/A the pelting of this pitilefs dorm! Si^ak.
The wary Dutch this gathering ftorm forefaw.
And durd not bide it on the Englifli coaft. Dryden,

Dtcay tf Piety,

1.

2.

inch of candle ; he that bidt moll fliall have
and when it is mercenary, there is no depend-

offer; or

to

Safe in a ditch he bidet.

make

And they alfo, if they hide not dill in unbelief,

known by forac public »oice.

My

.

5.

away.

To pronounce

;

the word abide ; which fee : but it being
grown fomewhat obfolete, the examples
of its various meanings are not eaftly

to declare.

Y'ju are retir'd.
As if you were a fcaft- d one, and nnt
The hoftefi of the meeting ; pray you bid

^

.a

r

tw» teeth.

Com-

Bifu'rcated. adj. [from binus, two, and
furca, a fork, Lut.] Shooting out, by adivifion, into two heads.

A fmall white piece, bifurcated, or branching
into two, and finely reticulated all over, ff^oodtvard,

Bifurc a'tion.

n. /.

[from

binus and.

furca, Lat.] Divifion into two ; opening into two parts.

The fird catachredical and far derived fimi|I«
tude, it holds without man ; that is, in a bifurcation,
or divifion of the root into two parts.
BroTvn's yulgar Erroun,

BIG. adj. [This word is of uncertain or
unknown etymology. 'Junius derives it
from Sayarflj- ; Skinner from bug, which,
in Danijh, fignifies the belly.]
1.

Having comparative bulk, greater or
lefs.

A

troubled ocean, to a man who fails in it, is, I
think, the biggejl object that he can fee in motion.
SfeCtater,

2.

Great in bulk; large.
Both in addition and divifion, either of fpaceor-

found.

Bide'.ntal. adj.

Ibi/ormis, Lzi.]

pounded of two forms, or bodies,

be graffcd in,
Romam, xi. 23.
4. It has probably all the fignifications of

then pretj'd, then forc'd
Cay.

Thele unknown friends to's welcome.
Sbakeh,
Viyat, u we ftSU by dKiS, pat their aims

Bi'formed. adj.

Ihill

Oor bans thrice bid I and for our wedding day
'kerchief bought !

:

Milton,

To remain in a place.

.

This is not (he O madnefs of difcourfe
That caufc fets up with and againd thyfelf!
Shakejp. Troilui and Cr^da,.
Bifold authority.

to live ; to inhabit.

With twenty trenched galhes on his head.
The lead a death to nature.
Sbakeff. Macbeth,
3. To continue in a ftate.

Cilliir CI) FrienJJhif,

to

If beauty have a foul, this is not (he;
If fouls guide vows, if vows are fan^imunyy
If fanftimony be the gods delight.
If there be rule in unity itfelf.

:

In heav'n or earth, or under earth in hell.

Gratnjiile.

To proclaim;

;

two; opening with ^^

fplit in

Bi fo'ld. adj. [from biitus, Lat. and _/»/</. ]j

All knees to thee (hall bow, of them that bide

To give interell a Aare in friendlhip, is to fell it
ing on it.

Ta dwell

two;

cleft.

7a Bide. v. n.

Ai when the goddeflirs came down oi old.
With gifts their young Dardanian judge they try*d,
Aad each bad* high to win him to their Ade.

\'"{/- ibi/dus. Lit. z bota.nical term.] Divided in-

Bi'fidated,j

To en-

To BIDE. v. a. [biban, Saxon,]
dure ; to fuffer

Bearing,

fruit twice a year.

Bi'fid,

One who

How, fay'ft thou that Macduff denies his perfon
At our great bidding t
Shakejfeare's Macbeth.

for true to thee

[bi/ere»s, Lat.]

Twofold ; double.

order.

to the reconciling thofe fo diliant interelis.

4.

Dia,
Bi'fekovs. adj.

Bi'ddino. n.f. [froxa. iid,] Command;

he lives, and yet unwilling to relmquifh alt hope,
he will embrace that profelTion which hidi I'airefl

it :

And twice befides, her bieflings ijever fail

To dore tlie dairy with a brimming pail. Dryden,
Bifa'rious, adj. [bi/arius, Lat.] Twofold ; what may be underllood two ways.,

offers or propofes a price.
He looked upon fcveral drclfes which hung there,
expofed to the purchafe of the bed bidder. AJdifim,

Were to prove falfe.
Shakt/ftare'i CymbtHne.
When a man is refnjute to keep his fins while

fey

Arhuthmfs John Bull,.

Bi'estings. n.f. [byj-Tinj,, Saxon,] The
firlt milk given by a cow after calving,,
which is very thick.

Rate of the Leek,

Bi'dder. »./ [from To bid.\

Come, and be true.
;

Alake as if you hanged yourfelf, they will convey your body out of prifon in a bier*

And little beara to flutter at a beau,

To offer; topropofc; as, to bid a price.
me to my lofs

Milton,Griefs always green, a houfehold dill in tears;.
Sad pomps, a threlhold throng'd with daily biers.
And liveries of black.
Dryden' i juvenaU.

to

'Tis ihefe that early taint the female foul,
InftruS the eyes of young coquettes to roll.
Teach infants cheeks a bidden blufli to know.

—Can

biJJf

Unwept.

Commanded.

Who

— TIioo

contribute

B i'd o It!, pari, fajl [from To bid,]

HaktivUl.

or perfons.

3.

to

charity.

We ought, when we are biddeji to (p*eat feaf^s and

[bidtns, '£aX.]

•

He mu.t not float upon his wat'ry biir

To bid heads, is to dillinguilh each
He bidi his beads both evenfjng and morn.

;

meetings, to be prepared beforehand,

S^enjer%'

They bore him barefaced on the bier.
And on his grave laiird many a tear. Hbakejpcane,

See Bead,

to call ; to invite.

diall find, bid to the marriage.

2.

To pray.

bead by a prayer.

am bid forth to fuppcr, Jeffica
Shak. Mtrchant of Venice.
There are my keys.
I

And now the prey cf f.iwls he lies.
Nor wail'd of f.iends, nor laid on groaning bier,

If there come any unto jou, and bring not thia
dodlrine, receive him not into your houfe, neither
bid him God fpeed.
yotr.
When they defired him to tarry longer witli
them, he confented not, but bade them farewel,
^(9i, xviii. 21.

laJJ, \^iicornis,L3.t.'\ HavBicq'rnous.J ing two horns.

To defire ; to alk

to the grave.

Cranvil/e.

is

Bico'rne.

1.

j

And, fpent at lail and fpccchlefs zs he lies,
With fiery glances, mocks their rage, and dies.

point.

A blackfmith's anvil

[from To hear, ziferetrum, in.
A carriage, or frameof wood, on which the dead are carried;
n.f.

Latin, ixomfero.y

Of nature fierce, untameable, and proud,
He bids defiance to the gaping ciowd.

[apparently

from ieaiiron.}

Bier.

She bijvnr to all that djrft fupply

The place of thofe her cruelty made die. Hj/Ar.
The captive cannibal, oppieil with chains.

,

1. /•

continuaiice ot two years.
Then why fliomi iume be very long lived, others
only annual or bienr/ini f
Ra: on the Cieaiitn,

Sliall crofs

Breathes a blue film, and, in its mid career,
Ttemfon.
Arrefts the bickering Hreatn.

fldrmiflier.

To denounce.

III management of forks is not to be hei--d
when tiiey aie only biden:al.
Sivijt,.
Bi'ding. n.f. [from btde.] Reiidence
habitation.
At Ar.tv- ,p lias ray conftant biding i)cen. Rowe.
Bie'nni a: . /i.-y, [bici/iis, La.t.'] Of the-

Thyfelf and Oxford, with five thoufind men,
the feas, and bid faae £d\-.-ar4 bittle.
Sbakefpearc^ s Henry VI,

Miliar.

An icy gale, oft fliiftirg o'er the pool,

BTcKERER.

BIG

B I D

B I D

Having

duration,

when the idea under confideration be-

comes very big, or very fmall, its prccife bulk beLocke,
comes obfcuie and coofufed,
3.

T<emui£s.

•

;

!

^ife

^ih-b
men.

A

Lately on yonder fwelling huih,

bigbcllieJ women.

The great, th' important day,
.-f^ wkb the fate ot Cato and of Rome.

Snores out the watch of night.

Bight, n./.

I

veflel

ShakeJ'peare.

It is

get thee apart, and weep.

1. "'Bulk ;

Sbahtfpeare^s yuliut Cafard

Bi'lberry.

w. /. [from bibp^, Sax. a
bladder, and berrj, according to Siianer i </itis idrsa.]
fmall Ihrub ; and
a fweet berry of that Ihrttb ; whortleberry.

A

greatnefs of quantity.

Cricket, to Windfor's chimneys flialt thou leap;
There pinch themaids as blue as bilierrici. Sbak.

If panicum be laid below, and about the bottom

Gfeat in air and mien ; proud"; fwell-!
ing
tumid ; haughty ; furly.
How elfe, fald he, hot with a gooJ bold face,
And with iig words, attd iVith a ftately pace ?

of a root,

;

it

will caufe the root to grow to an ex.

Bacui.
People w\:re furprifcd at the blgnefs and uncouth
deformity uf the camel.
Vijlrange'iFable!,
The brain of man, in refpeft of his body, i^
much htjer than any other animal's; excccdinjj
in bigncji three oxen's brains. i?jy o« tbe Creation*

Bi'lbo. ». / [corrupted from Bilboa,
where the beft weapons are toiade.]

ceflive bigiufi,

,

|

Spttifcr\

To' the ijieaner man, or unknown in the court,

feem fomewhat folenin, coy, big, and dangerous of
jijcbam,
look, talk, and anfwer.
\\ you had looked hxg^ and fpit at him, he'd
Shahffiart's fyimtrs Talc,
have run.
In his profperous fcafon, liu fell under the re-t
preach of being a man of b'lg looks, and of a mean
ClarendfA
and abjcft fpirit.
Or does the than i' th* moon look Wj,
Or wear a huger periwig-

A

rapier ; a (word.
'I'o be compaiTed like a good hilbo, in the circumference of a peck, hilc to point, heel to head,

Sbakejpeare.

Size, whether greater or (mailer; comparative bulk.
Several forts of rays make vibrations of fcveral

2.

bignsffes, which,

Bi'lboes. n.f. A fort of flocks, or wooden
fhackles for the feet, ufed for puoilhing

according to their bigneffis, excite

fenfations of feverat colours;

and the air, accord-

ing to their

fcniations of fcveral

bigticjps, excites

founds.

offenders at fea.
Met bought I lay

Worfc than the mucincs in the bilbta.

Neivttn's Ofticks,

i

BI'GOT.

>i.
[The etymology of this
f.
word is unknown ; but it is iuppofed,
by Camden and others, to take its rife
from fome occafional phrafe.] A man

JiuJibms,
Than our nwn native luiiaticks
Of governments that once made fuch a noife,
?

and looked fo big in the eyes of mankind, as being
founded upon the deepeft cnunfels; and the ftrongcll
forte ; nothing remains of them but a name. Scuibi

devoted unreafonably to a certain party
prejudiced in favour of certain opinions ; a blind zealot.
It is ufed often
with to :befOre the objeft of zeal ; as,, a

Thou thyfelf, thus infolent in ftatc.
I

',

Drydtti,

To grant big Thrafo valour, Phormlo fcnfe,

>

'

grief, rage.

Art l)Ut perhaps fomc country magiitrate,
Whofe power extends no farther than to fpeak
£i^ on the bench, and fcanty weights to break.

Sttvary. T'revoux.
Like btlanJers t creep
Along the coaft, and land in view to keep. DryJ.
canals.

Would'ft thou not ratlierchoofc a fmall renown,
To be the OiayV of fomc poor paltry town j
Bijgly to look, and barb'roufly to fpeak;
To pound falfe weights, and fcanty meafures
break ?
Drydtn.
Bi'flNESs. »./ [from iig.]

|

Fopei
The prince of augurs, Halithrcfcs, role.
6. Diftended ; fwoln ; ready to burft 5
ufcd tiften tof the effefts of paffion, as

'

A fmall
of about eighty tons burden, ufed
for the carriage of goods, it is a kind
of hoy. manageable by four or five men,
and has malls and fails after the manner
of a hoy. They are ufed chiefly in Holland, as being particularly fit for the

Bi'lander. »./ Ibelandre, Ft.]

explained by W/'ww^r-,
the circumference of a coil of rope.
Bi'gly. a/f-v. [from big.] Tumidly;
haughtily ; with a blufttring manner.

ylJdifin.'

Now Hg laiih knowledge of approaching woes,

7.

Addifin.

Yet not fo found, and half fo deeply fweet.
As he, whole brow with homely biggiir bound,

His gentle laJy,

;

fl,-ck,

Sleep now

Bigtfthh gentleman, our theme, deceas'd
Shnkffpean' s Cymielirt.
As he was bom.
e. Full of fomething ; and defirous, or
about, to give it vent.

bigot to the Carteftan tenets.
Religious fpite and pious fplcen bred firft

'

GanK
Should indignation give, at lead oftencc.
8. Great in fpirit ; lofty ; brave.
What art thou ? have not I
An arm as big as thine ? a heart as iig ?
1
'Thy words, grant, are bigger: for 1 Wear not
My d&gger in my mouth. Shakt-Jfii-arg*! C\yrttbdwe^

'

This quarrel, which fo long the bigots nurft.
In philofophy and

religion,

Tare.
the bigon of all

Wain,

patties arc gencriflly the moft-^ofitive.

Bi'goteo. adj. [from bigot.] Blindly pre-

,

poffefled in favour of fometiiing ; irrati'

'Bt'cikw\sT.
*

n. /.

[bigamus,

<One
Bigamy.

with to.
Bigt/Tted to this idol, we difclaim

onally zealous

Lat.]

\ovi

that has committed bigamy.

See

Icfs

I'refliyterian
vic:xk, bigotied,

**n a iigamiji have fuch a beneAce according

tothat'law.

•

[In the canon law.] The marriage of a
fecond wife, or of a widow, or a woman already debauched ; which, in the
church of Rome, were confidercd as
bringing a man under fome incapacities
,

from iig and helly."]
Pregnant; with Child ; great With young.
When we have laugh'd to (ce th« fails conccivej
ai/J.

[

Ajid grow bigbtirud with the wanton wind. Sbak.
Children and bigbcllieJ women require antidote^
)t(newkat iqore grateful to the palate.

ra(i!)|

BILE, n.f [bilis, Lat.]

bitter liquor, feparated in the liver, col-

lefled

in

the

gall-bladder,

and

"Harviyi

wicked, and bloudy principles; rtiould pretend t4
fupport thomfclves by the gofpcl.
'Wattii
2.

The practice or tenet of a bigot.

[

Our filcnce ma4cbs our ^idvcrl'aries think we pfrr-^
lift

in thofe bigctrkt, which all

good and

Icnfibie

men dc'pile.

B I'f. SWOL N

Pcjii
.

ledj,

'

[froth

iig'Znd 'fwoln.. ]

Tuiigid ; ready to burft.
Might my bi^vitln heart
Vent all its griefs, and give a loolc to forrow.

the common duft.
Its ufe is to (heathe
or blunt the acids of the chyle, becaufe
they, being entangled with its fulphurs,
thicken it fo, that it cannot be futficiently diluted by the I'uccus pancreaticus, to enter the lafleal veffels. ^iticy.
In its progrcflion, foon the labour'd chyle
Receives the confluent rills of bitter bile ;
Which, by the liver fever'd from the blood,
And rtriving through the gall-pipe, here unload

Their yellow llream j,

Blaehnore,

Bile. n.f. [bik. Sax. perhaps from bilis,
Lat. This is generally fpelt boil; but,
I think, lefs properly.]
A fore angry
fwelling.
But yet thon

art

my flelh, my blood,: my

daughter;

Or rather » difeafr that's in jny fleflj 5
Tliou art a bile in my corrupted blood.
Shakcjp.
Thofeir/ir did rvm^lav fo—did ntiTtbe' general
run ? were not that a botchy fore ?
Si'ahffeare.
•

Afunmculiii is a painfuUruberele, wi^li

Mdijoit,

BiG-UDUEKED. adj. [{rem big and«^£r.]
having

bafis,

arifing in a cone.

li

broad

It is generally called

a

and is accompanied with inflammation, pulfation, and tcnfion.
Wifdnan.

bile,

Bilge, n. f. 'The compafs or breadth of
a Ihip's bottom.

To Bn.GE. -v.n.

Skfiiner.

[from thetwun.j

To

fpring a leak ; to let in water, by,ftriking upon 'a rock : a fea term ; rvc/w hielge.
Skinner.

'•

'

Having large 'udders ;
fwelled with milk.

dif-

charged into the lower end of the duodenum, or beginning of the jejunum, by

Sii'ifti

Blind zeal; prejudice; unreafonable
warmth in favour of party or opdnions
with the particle to.
Wtire it not for a bigrrry to our own tenets
we could hardly fmaginc, tliati fo anany abfutd,

Shakdb,

A thick, yellow,

'

Sbakcfp.

Randal determined to commence a fuit>jai!n(l
Martin, for bigamy and inccft. jlrbiiibnot antfPoft,

J! I c B e'l lied.

and ill-advlfed ^irince, 'will

j

1.

A beauty-wairting and dirtreffcd widow
Seduc'd the pitch and height 'of all his thoughts

for ecclefialUcal offices.

Gartbi
the reign of that

Bi'ooTRY. ti.f. [from bigot.]

,iiv':-

To bafe declenllon, and \oith'i bigamy.

merit, during

be computed.

^yliffi-

Bi'cAMY. »./. [^]f<nw/a, low Latin.]
1. The crime of having two wives at once.

i.

:

Rell, health, and oalc^'for nothing but a name.

By the papal canbns, a clergyman, that has a
wife, canrtnt have an ccclellallicul benefice; much

through the iKhing
rock.
tumbling heaps on heapt th* unniunber'd

Big-udder' d ewes, and goats of female kind. Pope.

Bi'ggin. n./. [bcguin, Fr.] A child's cap.

Waller,

4. Sometimes with of, but rarely.

Thy heart is h'lg

Came

AJiiJ'i.

We purfued our march, to the terror ot the
market people, and the mifcarriagc of half a dozen

Bacsftm

BiFtuitb many a common rofe,
Thit early bud began to h'lufh.

Now, driv'o before him

So many wdl-/haped innocent virgins are block'
ed up, and waddk up and down like bigbellkd wo-

3. Teeming; pregwint; great witli young:
with the particle luitb.
btiT tig ^viih young hath rddoro been fcen.

.-M^-

B I L

4"S^
t

Bi'ti AR y; <i^.[froto ^/i, Lat.j' Bdonging to the bile.
Voracious animals, suid fuch as do notohew,
have a great quantity of gall ; and fomc of them
have. tiM ^biluirjj itiX ii^ftted t^to {hp pylofus.
>

yirbutbtiet,

Et'LINCSGATE.

.

.

B I L

Bi'lincscate. »./ [A cant word, bor-

Let them, but under your fuperioUrs, kill.
When dodors firll have fign'd the bloody hill.

rowed from Bihng/ate in London, a
place where there is always a crowd of
low people, and frequent brawls and foul
language.]

Ribaldry;

There ftript,

tair

Dryden.

6.

rtetorick languiih'd on the

Set up fome foreign moniler in a hill.

I.

Pefe,

Why iUhus juice a golden light puts on.

lord

When the tafte of the mouth is bitter, it is a fign
Ariuthrot,

Fr. of which tliat language haj
no etymology ; and therefore they probably derived from England both the
play and the name, which is corrupted
from halyards, yards or flicks with which
lard,

in

chancellor.

a ball

bj the jury, is, wliat inliuencc their lt;;ding rhe
hUI may have upon the kingdom.
Sv.*ift.

8.

Clarendon.

is

driven along a table.

Ihus

Spenfer :

A bill of mortality. An account of the
numbers that- have died in any dillrift.

Balyards much unfit,
And ihuttlecocks mifTeeming manly wit.

Than grinning hunger, and the pleating fight

Moft who took in the weekly hilli of mortaiiiy,
made little other ufe of xhem, than to look at the

Of your biik '4 hopes ?

A game at which a ball is forced againft

foot, how the burials cncrealed or decreafeJ.

another on a table.

Bilk'd itationers for yeomen Aood prepar'd.

Dry,Un.

Whr»t comedy, what farce can more delight.

BILL. H.f

Dtyticn,

[bile. Sax.

See Ball.]

The

Their hiUt were thwarted crolTways at the end,
and with thefe they would cut aji apple in two at
one faap.
Ciinvf.
It may be tried, whether birds may not be made
to bare greater or longer tillSf or gicater or longer
ulons.

Graunt.

An olive leaf he brings, pacifick fign
Milan.
No crowing cock does there his wings difplay,

the

and receive provifions.
Taylor.
All that a till
cxckangt can do, !s to direft to
wh.)m money due, or taken up upon credit, in
a foreign country, (hall be paid.
Loike.

f

To Bill.

command of thofe who entertain

them.

fond.

A kind of weapon anciently carried

Doves, they fay, will till, after their pecking,
and their murmuring.
Bin f^njon's Caialint.
Still amorous, and fond, and huling.
Like Philip and Mary on a ijiilling.
Vadihrat.
They hill, they ticad ; Alcyone c-^mpri-fs'd
Seven days fiu brooding on her floating ncft.
Drydin.
He that bears th' artillery of Jove,
The (Irong pounc'd eagle, aj d the hilling dove.
Drydtn.

by the foot ; a battle axe.
Yea d;ftafr women manage ta^y tilli j
A:;airi{l

rby feat both young and old rebel.

Shak.

BILL. »./ [iilkt, Fr.]

A written paper of any kind.
He does receive
Particular alditlon from the Ull

That write; thTm a'l alike.
2. An account of money.

Sbaiffpearc.

Ordinary cxper.cc ought to be lim'ted by a
man's ef^ate, and ordered to the bell, that the ii7/i

7»Bili-. t.

Bi'llet. n.f.
1.

Bacon.

[billet,

2.

[,

The nir.ft convenient way of picking hops, Jj
into a l.,ng fcjuaie frame of wood, called a hm.

As when, from rooting !n « tin.
All p.wder'd o'er from tail to chin,

Bi

Their billei at the fire was found.

You know hisn by his hajcl fnout.

Pri^r.

.^vift.

NARY. adj. [from binus.Lv.t.'] Two;
dual ; double.

A method of com-

putation propofed by Mr. Leibnitz, in
which, in lieu of the ten figures in the
common arithmetick, and the progreffion from ten to ten, he has, only
two

'

figures, and ufes the funple progrsffion
from two to two. This methed appears
to be the fame with that ufed
by the
Chinefe four tixoufand years ago.

Chambers,
/ bound ; particip.
paff. bound, or boitiidcn. [binban.
Sax.]
I. To confine with bonds; to
enchain.

To BIND.

Let US thf-n calculate, when the bulk of a fsga"
or hillet is dilared and ratified to the degree of fite,
hi)W vaU a place itmuftukeup. Dighy in Bxlici.

Mortimer,

A lively maggot failies out,
^

!

A fmall log of wood for the

Ihomfon.

A place where

bread, or corn, or wine, is repofited.

A

chimney.

L^Efirange.

Vol.

Defcenda the billowy foam.

Bin. n.f. [binne, Sax.]

ticket direftlng foldiers at what houfc
to lodge.

4. [BilottFr.]

Like him that took th'? doflor's till.

the hills difperfe their dreadful llnre.

And o'er the vales collefled ruin pi ur.
Prior.
Bi'llowy. adj. [from billcu:] Swelling;
turgid ; wavy.
And whitening down themoiry-tinflur'dfl:. earn,

only written Rimmber Ctefar, he was exceedingly
confounded. _
Clairndon.

kini;i fir'^rnt.

And fwallow'd itirifteid o' th' pill.
Iluilihras.
The medicine was prepaccd according to the tiJI.

That from

A fmall paper; a note.

3. Billet-Joux, or a foft billet ; a love letter.
'Twas then, Belinda if report (ay true,
Thy eyes fiift bpcn'd on a hilUt-diux.
Popi.

A phyfician's prefcription.

Chafing Nercus with his trident th.ows

Bi'nary Aritbmetick.

French.]

ii

flciton.

The billcivs from the bottom.
Dertam,
To Bi'llow. 1/. n. [from the noun.] To
fwell, or roll, as a wave.
The hillctving fnow, and violence of the fli( wV,

a writing.]
:
a cant

There will be no way left for me to tell you
tbit I rcnember you, and that I love you, but
th It one, which nc:ds no open warrant, or fccret
onveyanccj which no tillt can prcduJe, nor no
jlllatury.

Billows fink by degrees, even when the wi- d

down that firft ftirred them.

When hs found this little hillet, in which was

How now for mitigation of this till,
Sbahjfcart.

bill,

His maflerpiece was a compofition that he hilled
about under the name of a fovercign antidote.
L'EJImngt.

Urgd by the commons ? doth hii raajtffty

An aft of parliament.

[from

Locke.

From whence the river Dee, as filver cleen,
His tumbling billows rolls with gcn;le rcre. Spenfer,

word.

No new laws can be made, nor old laws abro-

Incline ti it, or no ?

a.

but bar*

hollow.

To publilh by an adveriiiement

may be Icfs than the eftim i*ion ajroad.
Bacon,
A law prefented to the parliament, not
yet made an iiL
gated or alured, but by parliament; where hlili
ate prepared, and p icfcntcd 10 the two houfes.

[from bill, a beak.] To
doves by joining bills ; to be

<v. n.

carefs, as

Trmplt.

ball,

probably of the fame origitial wih bili3.
Sax. a bladder.]
A wave fwoln, and

upon the credit of which we lay our cares down,

ufed in country work, as a hedging bill;
fo called from its refemblance in form
to the beak of a bird of prey.

not any adlion of the

A note ordering BILLOW, n.f [bilge. Germ, bolg, Dan.

The comfortable fentciices are hilli of txchange,

A kind of hatchet with a hooked point,

Stauding troops arc lervants armed, who ufe the
lince and I'ward, as other fcrvants do the fickle or

ftick, it is

P^ffion-

the payment of a fum of money in one
place, to fome perfon ifligned by the
drawer or remitter, in conlideration of
the value paid to him in another place.

edged axe.]

Boyle.

When the ball obeys the (lioke of a billiard

Arlulhnot.

!

Sbakrffeare.

like ivory balls meeting on a hULrd table.

tilk effort for fome of the foremeniioned fuppers.

to. ji bill of exchange.

let 's tn billiards.

Even nofe and cheek withal,
Smooth as is the billiard ball.
Benjonfiif,
Some are forced to bound or fly upwards, a, moft

A

Mor with his horny till provoke rhe day. Dryden.
BILL. n.f. [bill*. Sax. rpibilk, a two-

hill, at

Let it alone ;

And mu'.tiply'd with theirs the weekly hill. Dryd.
bill offare. An account of the feafon
9.
of provifions, or of the dilhes at a feaft..
It may fecm fomewhat difficult to make out the

Bacon.

In hi» fill

the

Hubherd s Tele.']

So liv'd oor fires, ere doftors learn'd to kill,

beak of a fowl.

J.

'jis"!-

Bi'lliards. n.f. nuithout afingular. \btl-

The fourth thing very maturely to be confulted

ing payment.

4.

incenfed, and tht:. alJ'eflions poifoned, that they
refuted to fulfei the foldiers to be billeted upon

C'.iBdl.

the Gotbiclc
To cheat ; to
defraud, by running in debt and avoidbilaican.']

3.

or

A declaration in

tition of procefs againlt the defendant for redrel's.

To BILK. "v. a. [derived by Mr. Lye horn

1

a.

Away, I fay.
Shakefptar'f
2. To quarter foldiers.
They remembeed him of charging the kingdom, by billeting fjldiers.
Raleigh,
The counties throughout the kingdom wer« fo

the general aiiizcs ; but moft to the
It containeth the faft complained of, the damages thereby fuffeicd, and pe-

crrants

And floods of chyle in lilver currents run. Garth,

a.

but without condition

wrong that the complainant hath fuft'ered by the
party complained of; or elfe fome fault that the
party complained of hath committed againft fome
law.
This bill is fometlmes offered to jufiiccs

Bi'ljous. at/J. [from iiJis. Lat.] Confiding of bile ; partaking of bile.

I.

Drydin.

writing, that exprefleth cither the grief and the

ing, or fpeaking, two tongues.

of a redundance of a hilioui alkali.

An obligation,

forfeiture for non-payment,

Bili'nguous. «djr. [iilinguis, Lat.] Hav-

where he is to lodge.
Retire thee; go where thott art iilleteJ:

[Inlaw.]

7.

7« Bi'llet. v. a. [from the noun.]
1
To direft a foldier by a ticket, or note,

An advertifement.
And in dei'pair, their empty pit to fiU,

language.

foul

ground.
And (hameful bitirgfgate her robes adorn.

.

B I N

B I L

'V. a.

pret.

Wilt ihou play with him
wilt thou bind

as

uith a bird.' or

him for thy oiaidcni ?

B b

Jah.
2.

To

;

;

.

B I N
To gird

2.

;

7« Bl N D

to enwrap ; to involve.

Who hath hiUKii the waters in a garment ?

To fallen to any thing ; to fix by circamvolution.
Thou (halt JW this line of fcarletthrratl in the
windpw, which thou didft let us down by. Jjhua.
Keep my commandments, and live; and my
law, as the apple of thine eye.
Bind them upon
thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine
heart.
frwtrhi.

•

Gather ye together firft the tarn, and hiid them
in bundles, to burn them.
Mattbnv.
cover a wound with dreffings and
5.

To

bandages

:

To make coftive.
3. To be obligatory.
2.

1.

to compel

Though I am b<,und to every act of duty,
I am not bjund to that all Haves are free to. Shak.
Duties cxprefsly required in the plain language
of Scripture, ought ro bind our confciences more
than thofe which are but dubioully inferred. Waits,

;

with in, if the

reftraint be local ; with up, if it relate

ftanding, ajid confines it, for the time, to one ob-

ySt, from which it will not be taken oO".
In fuch 3 difmal place,

Locki.

Where joy ne'er enters, \Vhlch the fun ne'er cheers.
MM/.d in with darlcnefs, overfprcad with damps.
Dryden.

To hinder the flux of the boweU ; to

make coftive.
Khub.irb hath manif ftly in it parts of contrary
parts that purge, and parts that bhui
The bTdy.
Baccn.
The whey of millc doth loofc, the milk doth.

<^peratiniis j

Herbert,

bird*
1 1 .

To reftrain.

The more we arc btundup to an-exad narration,
we want more life, and fire, to animate and inform
Fc/ion.

the (lory.-

12.
I

;

Mortimer.

a flired cut to bind with.

A double cloth, of fuch length and breadth as
WiftKan.

bir.ders.

Bi'nding. tt,/. [from

bind.]

age.
This beloved young woman began
the binding of his eyes.

:

to thought or aft.
Now I'm cabin'd, cribb'd, confin'd, bound in
To faucy doubts and fear?.
Sbakijfeart.
You will fooner, by imagination, bind a bird
from finging, than from eating or flying. Baian.
Though paOion be the rooft obvious and general,
Jet it is not the only caufe that bindi up th^ undcr-

10.

A fillet

might ferve to encompafs the frafturcd member,
I cut from each end to the middle, into three

10 conftrain.

To oblige by kindnefs.
To confine to hinder

A man whofe trade it is 10 bind books.
A man that binds ftieaves.

in a day, if it ftand well.

3.

Te bind a book. To put it in a cover.
Was ever book, containing fuch vile matter.

So fairly bound f
Thofe who could never read

Shahffpeare,
the grammar.

When my dear volumes touch the hammer.
Prior,
May think books beft, as richcft hound.
13". To bind to.
To oblige to ferve fomc

bipariiti.'\

or of

A band-

neither ^i^ff/ nor quadruped oviparous have

Bi'pEDAL.

Brown's Vulgar Errours.
[bipedalis,

adj.

'Taller.

Two

Lat.]

feet in length ; or having two ftet.

Bipe'nnated.
ptnna, Lat.]

[from

adj.

and

binus

Having two wings.

All bipcnnated inlcdts have poifes joined to the
body.
Derham,
.

Bipe'talous.
miraMv,]

adj,

[of bis,

and

Lat.

A flower confining of two

leaves.

D/<Sf.

In, f.

[in

algebra.]

BiQj; ADR a'tick. 3
The fourth power,
arifing from the multiplication of a
fquare number or quantity byitfelf Har.

BIRCH Tree. n.f [bipc. Sax. to/./a,Lat.]
The leaves are like thofe of the poplar
the ftioots are very flender and weak ;
the katkins are produced at remote dif-

tances from the fruits, on the fame tree j
the fruit becomes a little fquamofe cone
the feeds are winged, and the tree calls
its

to take off

An animal

Lat.]

No ferpcnt, or filhes oviparous, have any ilunes

Bi'qj; ADR ATE.

Three tinders ftood, and tonk the handfuls reapt

Swear by the folemn oath that binit the gods.
;

Mortimer.

Chapman,
From boys thatgather'd quickly up.
A man, with a binder, may reap an acre of whea:

Numheri.

To oblige by duty or law

a large fquare hop, and more

Bi'nder. n,f, [from To bind,"]

If a man vow a vow, or fwcar an oath, to b\nd
bis foul with a bond, he Ihall not break his word.

8.

A fpecles of hops.
is

[bipes,

any cxtcriourly.

Halt,
have not been received here, do nor bind.
The promifes and bargains for truck, between
a Swifs and an Indian, in the woods of America,
are binding to them, though they are perfectly in a
(late of nature, in reference to one anotlier. hoiU.

hind; the latter
hardy,

[from

with two feet.
at allj

Thofe canons, or imperial conftitutions, which

2.

Pofc.

Bi'PED. n.f,

Mortimer,

Bind. »./.

n. f.

The aft of dividing into two;
making two correfpondent parts.

The two bed forts are the white and the grey

To oblige by (lipulation, or oath.

9.

to

if the land rife full of clots, and if it is a binding

with up.

and went to him, and haund up his wounds, hake.
Having filled up the bared cranium with our
dreflings, we hcund up the wound.
IVijtman.

7.

;

land, you mu!l jnakc it fine by harrowing of it.

When he faw him, he had companion on him,

6.

BiPARTi'riON.

T. «.

grow lliffand bard.

To fatten together.

4.

.

To contrail its own parts together

1

Provr'hi3.

B I R

B I P

outer rind every year.

Bi'rchen. adj.

Miller.

Made of

\ixoia. birch."]

birch.

His beaver'd brow a irrr^r" garland bears. Popt.
Bi'ndweed. n. f. [cowvolvulus , Lat.]
BIRD. ii.f. [bipb, or bpib, a chicken,
The name of a plant.
Bindiveed is the largerand the fmaller j the firft
fort flowers in September, and the laft in June and

Mcrtim':r.

July.

Bi'nocle. n.f.

[from

bi/ius find ocu'iu.]

A kind of dioptrick telefcope, fitted fo
with two tubes joining together in one,
as that a diftant object may be feen with
Harris.
both eyes together.
BiNo'cuLAR. adj. [from binus and ccu/«i.]

Having two eyes.

Mod animals are bir.uular, fpldcrs for the moft
part o£VonocuIar, and f ime fenocular.

Verham.
root

A

Saxon.]
general term for the feathered kind ; a foVvl. In common talk;
foiul is ufed for the larger, and bird for
the fmaller kind of feathered animals.

The poor wren,
The moft diminutive of birds, will fight.
Her young ones in her rieft, againft the owl. Shak.
Sir* had all the regal makings of a queen
j
As holy oil, Edward confefl'or's crown.
The rod and bird of peace, and all fuch emblems.
Laid nobly on her.
Sbakeffeare's Henry Vill*
The bird of Jove ftoop'd from his airy tour.
Two birds of ^iycA plume before him drove. Mile.
Hence men and beads the breath of life obtain,
And birds of air, and monfters of the main. Dryd.
There are (ome birds that are inhabitants of the
water, whofe blood is cold as fiOies, and their fici^

A
BiNo'.MiAi, Root, [in algebra.]
compofed of only two parts, connefted
Harris.
with the figns plus or minus.
Bino'minous. adj. [from binus and
is fo like in tafte, that the fcrupulous are allowed
ncmen, Lat.] Having two names.
Locke.
them on n(h days.
Bio'grapher. n.f, [ci©. and ypa^u.] To Bird. -v. «. [from the noun.] To
catch birds.
A writer of lives ; a rclater not of the
1 do invita you to-morrow morning to my
hillory of nations, but of the afLions of
houfe, to brcakfaft ; after we'll abirding together.

particular perfons.

Our Grubftrcet biographers watch for the death
of a great man, like lo many undertakers, on
Addijon.
purpofe to make a penny of him.
Blo'oRAPHY. n.f. [si©- and yjia^a'.]

ishaii/fiare.

Bi'rdbolt. n.f. [from bird and bolt, or
arre-iv.]

An arrow, broad at the end, to

be (hot at birds.

In writing the lives of men, whicii is called
biography, fome authors place every thing in the
Walls.
prccile order of time when it occurred.

To be generous and of free difpofition, is to
take thofe things for birdbolts that.you deem can-

from lufy luflf/?', a

Bi'rdcage. n.f. [from bird and cage.]

Bi'ovAC.

In-f,

[ Fr.

non bullets.

Shakejpeare.

An inclofure, with interflitial fpaces,
Bi'hovac. Y double guard, German.] a
made of wire or wicker, in which bird»
Bi'vouAC. J guard at night performed
are kept.
The fame ill habits, the fame follies too,
by the whole army which either at a
Still thou art bound to vice, and Oill a flavc. Dryd.
Birdcages t>ught him the pulley, and tops the
ficgc, or lying before an enemy, every
Arfuthnot and Pipe.
centrifugal force.
To contract with any
14. To bind to.
evening draws out from its tents or huts,
Bi'rdcatcher.
[from
and
n.f.
body.
and continues all night in arms. Not
catch.]
One that makes it his employArt thou bound to a wife, fcek not to be loofed
TrevDux, Harris,
in ufe.
ment to take birds.
1 Corinthian:.
Bi'pAROUs. adj. [from binus and pario,
A poor lark entered into a miferable expodulaTo bind over. To oblige to make apI ;.
Lat.] Bringing forth two at a birth.
one.

If dill thou dolt retain

;

^W

tion widi a birdcaleher, that had taken her in his

pearance.
'

with the reporti conSir Roger was
cerning this woman, and would have ie«ni/ her <rKf/Mdijm.
to the county feflions.
ftigg^'red

net.
Bi'pARTiTE. adj. [from binus and parHaving two coirrefpondent Bi'rder. n.f. [from
tior, Lat.]

parts J divided into two.

bird.]

VEJirange.
bird-

A

catcher.

Bi'rdikc.

.

:

^W

Ii'roing-piece. n. f. [from
piece.']

A fowling-piece

She, .'or this many thoufand years,

Seems to have praftis'd with much care

To frame the race of woman fair ;
Yet never could a perfeft birth
IViillcr.
Produce before, to grace the earth.
His eld.'ft birth
Flies, mark'd by heav'n, a fugitive o'er earth. Prior.
The vallies fmile, and with their flow'ry face,
And wealthy birtbt, confcfs the flood's embrice.

npon twigs, by which the birds that
light upon them are entangled.

Others hatch their eggs, and tend the birib, till

birdcatcher ; a fowler.
Ai a fowler was bending his net, a blackbird
aflced him what he was doing
why, fays he, I am
:

laying the foundations of a city ; and fo the bird-

man drew out of fight.

Bi'r t h da v.

eggs, i3'c.
cuit,
1.

/.

tt.

A plan*.

:

it is

baked for long voy-

ages four times.
'I'he

bifcuii alfo

in the (hips, efpecially in the

Spanilh gallics, was grown hoary, and unwholc.
Knolln't liiliory.
fome.
Many have been cured of dropfics by abftinence from drinks, eating dry bijcuit, whith

[from birth and day.]

The day on which any one is born.

The day of the year in which any one

baked, Fr.]

A kind of bard dry bread, made to be
carried to fea

is

was born, annually obferved.
This is my birthday ; as this very day
Was Caflius born.
Sbaktfpeare.
They tell me 'tis my /•i'-thday, and I'll keep it

L'Efiranre.

The name

BI'SCOTIN. n.f [French.] A confection made of flour, fugar, marmalade,

MH'ov.

Orient light,
Kxhaling 6rft from darknefs, they beheld,
Birihdty of heaveif and earth.
Milton.

Bi'rds-ch«rry. »./ [paJut Theophraf-

fuppofe from a quality of hallening

of a plant.

called the birth of that
mefs. Alfo a cmirenient place to moor
Harris.
a fiiip In, is called a birth.
cherts, k^c.

2.

Sh.ilrJpeari'iMaelf.h.

Bi'rthwort. n.f. [from iir/h and ivort i

The feamen call a due or proper dif- Bi'scuiT. n.f. {froril ^/V, twice, Lat. anti
tance between fliips lying at an anchor,
A\(o the proper
or under fail, a binh.
place on board for the mefs to put their

1.

birth

fuffocated

Finj^er of birthjir angled babe,

delivery. Arlftolochia, Lat.]

Through pangs fled to felicity.

becaufe they prey ujion flies which they catch with

[from

Suitngkd or

ftrangle.]

Ditch-delivcr'il by a drab.

I

Who, after years of b.irrenncfs,
The highly favour'd Jcfepli bore
To him that fcrv'd for her before;
And at her next binh, much like thee.
7.

adj.

in being born.

That fair Syrian ihopherdefs

Heav'n's b'lrdlimt wraps me round, and glues my
wings,
Drydtn.
The Woodpecker, and other birds of this kind,

Crciu.

Z.V.A

The afl of bringing forth.

6.

J'm enfnar'd ;

or liquid gloe.

Addifon.

it is able to flilft for itfelf.

limt of the bark of it.

Bi'rdman. »./ [f^om^V(/and man.] A

Addiftm,

BirthJtra'ngled.

Biackntore.

Ci'ambert.

their tongue, have a couple of bags filled with a
vifcout humour, as if it were a natural birdlime,

While no bafenefs in this hreaft I find,
I have not loft the birthright vf my niiiid. Drydtn.
To fay that liberty and property are the birthright of the Englifli nation, Luc that, if a prince
invades them by illegal methods, we muij upon
no pretence refill, is to confound governments.

Produce prodigious binhs of body or mind. Milt.

A glutinous fubftance, which is fpread

A

Otieaft

Who of themfclves

-Bi'rdlime. ». /. [from bird and /zW.J

Holly is of fo vifcous a juice, as they make hirdBacon't Nuiural Hiftory.
With ftores of gatherM glue contrive
To flop the vents and crannies of their hire.;
Not hirdiimt, or Idean pitch, prodjce
more tenacious mafs of cUmmy juice. Drydtn.

But will preferve tlie birthright of iny pillion.

Abhor to join; and, by imprudence mix'd,

creep up into the chimney.
There they
always ufe to difcharge tlieir bird.r.g-fkccs ; cr^ef
into the kill hole.
Stukifptare.
I'll

Birdlme is m^de of the b.irjc of holly : the\
pound it into a tough parte, that no fibres of the
wood be left; then it is walhed in a running
{Iream, tilbno moies appear, and put up ro ferment,
and fcummed, and then laid up f rule; at which
time they incorporate with it a third part of nut
oil, over the fire.
But the bark of our lantone, or
wayfaring llirub, will make very good h'lrdrimt,

I lov'd her firft, I cannot quit the claim.

That poets are fat rarer birtht than kings,
Ben Jotijon.
Vour noblcft father prov'd.

and
a gun to ftioot

j

birds with.

/».]

BIS

B I R

B I R

creates no thirft,

times a-day.

and ftrong friftions four or five
Arbuihrot on Diet,

A compofiiion of fine flour, almonds,
and fugar, made by the confeftioners.
To Bise'ct. -v. a. [from binus and ytio,
to cut, Lat.] To divide into two parts.
The rational hoiil'on bijelletb the globe into tM'9
2.

Brotoni fulgar Errours.

equal parts.

With double pomp of fadnefs
Ei'rdseye. n. f. [adonis, Lat.] The
Bise'ction. n.f. [from the verb.] A
'Tis what the day deferves, which gave mcbreath.
name of a plant.
geometrical term, fignifying the diviDrydtn.
Bi'rdsfoot. ». /. {ornithopodium, Lat.]
Your country dames,
fion of any quantity into two equal parts.
The name of a plant.
Whofe cloaths returning birthday claims. Prior. BI'SHOP. ». /. [From epifcopus, Lat. the
Bi'rdsnest. n.f. An herb.
Dicl. Bi'rthbom. n.f. [This is erroneoully, I
Saxons formed bij-cop, which was afterBi'rdstares. n.f. [aracus.] A plant.
think, printed in Shakefpearc, birthdoom.
wards foftened into bijhop.] One of the
BrRDSTONouE. n./. An hcrb.
It is derived from birth and dom (fee
Dia.
head order of the clergy.
'

Bi'rcander. «./.

[c/zexalepex.]

A fowl

of the goofe kind.

BiRT. n. /. A fifli, the fame with the /ariol ;

Dom) as kingdom, dukedom.] Privilege

Di3.

which fee.

BIRTH. «. /. [beopS, Sax.]
J. The aft of coming into life.
But thou art fair, and at thy birth, dear boy,
Nature and fortune joia'd to make thee greau
Sbaiefftare't King John.
In Spain, our fprings like old men's children be,
Decay'd and wither'd from their infancy;
No kindly Ibowers fall on our barren earth.
To hatch the feafons in a timely birth. Drydcn.
2. Extra£Uon ; lineage.

of birth.
Let us rather
Hold faft the mortal fword ; and, like good men,
Beflride our downfaln birtbdom*
Shakrfpetire.
Bi'rthnicht. n.f. [from birtb and

night.]
_

The night on which any one is born.

1

Th* angelick fong in Bethlehem field.

On thy birtbnigbt, that fung the Saviour born.
Paradije Re^aiacd.

The night annually kept in memory of

2.

any one's birth.

A youth more glitt'ring than a iiribmgbt beau.

Mod virtuous virgin, born of heavenly birtb. Spin/.
All truth I Ihall relate : nor firft can I
Myfelf to be of Grecian birth deny.
Dnbam.

3.

Rank which is inherited by defcent.
He doth objeft, I am too great of birib.

Shak.

Be juft in all you fay and all you do
;
Whatever be your binly, you're fure to be
A peer of the firft magnitude to me.
Dryitn.
4. The conditioner circutnflances in which

any man is born.
High in his chariot then Halefus came,

A foe by i/V/i to Troy's unhappy name.
5.

Thing born

;

produAlon

:

Dryiin.

ufed of ve-

getables, as well as animals.

The people fear mej
Ujifatlict'd heirs,

for they do cbferve

and loathly binlu of nature.
Skaktjftart.

Pope.

Bi'rthplace.
place.]

A bijhop is an ovcrfeer, in fuperintendant, of
religious matters in the Chriliian church.

/

[from birth and
Place where any one is born.
n.

My birthplace hate I, and my love's upon
This enemy's town.

Sbaieffeare.

A degree of flupidity beyond even what wc have
been charged with,
place and climate.

upon the fcore < f our biribSwift.

Ayliffe^t Parergan.

You Aiall find him well accumpany'd
With reverend fathers, and well learned hijhopt.
Shakejptare.

Their zealous fuperftition thinks, or pretends,
they cannot do God a greater fcrvice, than to deftroy the primitive, apoltolical, and anciently uni»
verfal government of the church by ltijh'!pi.

Kt Chartu..
In cafe a bijhop /bould commit treafon and felony, and forfeit his eftate, with his Ufe, the land*
of his bi/hoprick remain ftiU in the church. South.
On the word bijljop, in French evcqve, I woul4
obferve, that there is no natural connexion between
the facied office and the letters or found ; for
t^-t'i/ue, and bijhop, fignify the fame office, thougU
th^^rc is not one letter alike in them. JVjtit's Log.

Bi'sHOP. n.f. A cant word for a mixture of wine, oranges, and fugar.
Fine oranges.

Well roafted, with fugar and winein a cup,

They'll make a fweet tipop, when
fup,
Bi'rthricht. ». /. [from birth and
Sivif^.
right.]
The rights and privileges to TaBi'sHOP. I/, a. [from the noun.] To
gentlefolks

which a man is born

;

the right of the

firft-born.

Thy blood and virtue
Contend for empire in thee, and thy goodnefs
Shares with thy birthright.
Hbaki/jieare,
Thou hail been found
By merit, mon than biribrighl, Son of Cad< Milt.

confirm ; to admit folemnly into the.
church.
They are prophane, imperfeft, oh too bad,
!

Except confirm'd and bijhoped by thee.

Donne.

Bi'sHOPRicK. n.f. [bifcoppice, Saxon.]

The dioccfe of a bilhop j tbe dillrift over

B b .»

A'kicji

.

B I f

B I T

wRFch the juriTdifllon of a bifliop exIt will be fit, that, by the. kinu'sfupreme powxt
in cial'es cccleliallical, they be luburdinatc under
fume bifhop, and tijhaprick, cf this realm.

Bacim't Ailviu la Ki'Airj.

A virtuous woman fliuuld rejtrt marriage, as a
man does a hlfxfrUk

but 1 would advilc

;

neither to perfil^ in refufing.

jtiUifnii't Sfcilatar.

Thul'e palters had cpilcopal ordination, pv>n'cned
prefcrrarnts in the church, and were fometimes

that they might fomething
mouths upon the grafs.

Hi,

Swift's ScniMtBti of aClunh of EngUnd Man.

hours, wanting
eleven minutes ; which fix hours omitted, will, in
time, deprave the compute : and this was the occafion of hijfxtilt, or leap year.
Brovin.
Towards the latter end of February is the hiffixtile or intercalar day ; called biffextiU, becaufe the
fixth of tlie calends of March is twice repeated.
Holder on timi.

Sl'ssoN. adj. [derived by Skimur from ty
Blind.

who hath feen the mobled queen

Kun barefoot up and down, tlireit'ning the flames

bill,

of chimney foot boiled, and then diluted
with water ; ufed by painters in walhing

pon.

Afiijcp and naked as an Indian lay.

He pledg'd it to the kniglit

Pop!.

He bought at thoufands, what with better wit
You purchafe as you want, and bit by bit, Pcpc.

bile,

ftocks.

and fears indented on the
Dryden s VirgiTs Georgiiks.

The aft of a fifli that takes the bait.

2.

A Spanilh Weft Indian filver coin, va-

I have known a very good fiflier angle diligently
four or fix hours for a river cap, and not have a
*'"•
n^a/tvn,

lued at fevenpence halfpenny.
4. ./i bit the better or ivor/e. In the fmalleft
degree.

A

dieat ; a trick ; a fraud :
vulgar language.

3.

There are few that know all the tricks of thefe

b low and

lawyers ; for aught I can fee, your cafe is not a hit
clearer than it was fevcn years ago.
Artuihnoi.

Lf t a man be ne'er lb wife,
He may be caught with fober lies ;

To put

For, take it in its proper light,
'Tis juft what coxcombs call a bite.

To Bit. t. a. [from the noun.]
the bridle upon a horfe.

Bitch, n.f. [birje, Saxon.]
The female of the canine kind
1

;

as the

2.

A fifh apt to take the bait.
be a bold titer,

Pope.

pret. I bit ; part. paff. I

have bit, or bitten, [biran, Saxon.]

I

To crufh, or pierce with the teeth.

A tricker

JValtm.

a deceiver.
A hiter is one who tells you n thing you haveao
;

you, bef jre he bit you, no reafon to Jilbclicve it
for his faying it ; and, if yon give him credit,
laughs in your face, and triumphs thjt he has
deceived you.
He is one who thinks yuj a fool,
becaufe you da not think him a knave. Sfeftator.

Bi'ttacle. n.f.

A

frame of timber in
the ftcerage of a (hip, where the corapafs is placed.
DiJI.

My very enemy's dog,
Though he had bit me, lliould have liood that night
Againft my fire.

Camden,

reafon to dilbelieve in itfelf, and perhaps has given

been for an extravagant bitch of a wife. Arlutbnot.

1.

He that bites.

3.

John had not run a madding fo long, had it noc
n). a.

1.

Swift,

;

He is fo bold, tiiat be Wiil invadeoneof his owa
kind ; and you may therefore eafily believe him to

A name of reproach for a woman.
Him you'll call a dog, and her a bitch.

A (harper

Great barkers arc no biters.

Antl at his feec a hitch ^olf fuck did yield
To two young babes.
Spenffr.
I have been credibly informed, that a biab will
nurfe, phy with, and be fond of young foxes, as
much as, and in place of, her puppies.
Loch.
2.

4.

one who commits frauds.
ISi'ter. n.f. [from bite.]

wolf, the dog, the fox, the otter.

Shakrfpeure,

Such fmillng rogues as thefe,

Bi'tten. particip, pajf. [from To bite',.

Like rats, oft bite the holy cords in twain.

which fee.]
BI'T'IER. adj. [birep, Saxon.]
1. Having a hot, acrid, biting tafle, like
wormwood.

Too intricate t' unloofe.

Shakrfpearc,
the youths that thunder at a playhoufe, and fight for bitten apples.
Shakfpearc.

Thefe

Ire

He falls his arms upon the body found.
And with his bloody teeth he ^irts the ground.
;

Bitur things are apt rather to kill than engender
putrcfaflion.
Bacon's Natural Hiftory.

Dryden.

hijuhouij and only cl'jvcnfoored, are farrowed with

There was lately a young gentleman bit to the

open eyes, as other lijulaus animals.
Brotun't Vulgar Errours.

bone, who has now indeed recovered.
Taller.
Their foul mo!ith3 have not opened their lips
without a filfity ; though they have Ihowed their
teeth as if they would bite off my nofc.
Arhuibnct andPo^'i Mart, Scrib.

Bit. n. /. [birol, Savon.] Signifies the
whole machine of all the Ijo:i nppuite.
aances of a.bridle> as the bit-mouth, the

Their venom'd

His majelly has power to grant a patent, for
ftamping round bits of copper, to every fubjedl he
hath.
Stv'ft.

A fur'

footed.
For the fwine, althoogh multiparous, yet being

Does he think he can endure the everlalling
burnings, or arm bimfelf againft the bites of the
never-dying worm ?
South,
Nor dogdays parching heat, that fplits the rocks.
Is half fo harmful. as the greedy flocks}

Then clap four fiices of pilaster on't.

To BITE.

Bisu \.GOV%.aclj.\bifulcus,'LzX.'\ Cloven-

Drydtn.

That, lac'd with bits of ruliick, makes a front.

of a plant, called ^io J'nakeiueed ; which

geon's inftrument, ufed in making incifions, of which there are three forts ; the
blatfc of the firft turns like that of a lancet ; but the ftraight bijloury hasthe blade
fixed in the hahdle ; the crooked- A//?o«r)i
is fliaped like a half moon, having the
ed|e on the infide.
Chambers.

Bite. n. /. [from the verb.]
1. The feizure of any thing by the teeth.

And to the table fent the fmoaking lard;

Tre'voux.

fee.

:

the knight had wit,

ftrangely hit, vihWs they tliought only to fall in
love with a fair lady.
Pitpe*

By this the boiling kettle had prcpar'd.
wine.

;

So kept the diamond, ai.d the rogue was bit. Pope.
If you had allowed half tlie fine gentlemen to
have converfed with you, they would have been

Arhuthnot.

reliflj

Bacon.
to trick ; to defraud : a low

j

An honcil faftor ftoic a gem away

A fmall piece of any thing.
A fav'ry til, that ferv'd to

more of

phrafe.

Shakefpcari.

John was the darling ; he had all the g-iod hits,
was crammed with good pullet, chicken, and ca-

B i's TORT. n. f.\biftorta, Lat.] The name

Fr.]

To cheat

6.

The mice found it troublrfome to be ftill climb-

3.

may be the firft water will have more of the

as more fragrant ; and the fecond
the tafte, as more bitter, or biting.

Shak,Jfcan.

!

Follow your funflion, go and batten un cold

A colour made

[i//?(>ar;,

It

fcent,

This night engluttcd

"With tiffin rheum ?
Sbjkijfeuri's Ii.imlct.
What harm can your tiffin conlpe^uitics glean
out of this charadlet ?
Sbakcfpeare's Coriolanus.

Bi'sTOURY. «. /.

tafte.

How many prodigal ^iri have flaves and peafants

*.

I've feen the day, with my good biting faulchion
would have made them (kip.
Skakefpare,

To make the mouth fmart with an acrid

5.

at once.

;

fix

their defigns.

I

L'EJI range.

The year of the fun confifteth of three hun-

BJ'STRE. n.f. [French.]

StURngjIeei.

Of curbs and tits, and fleeter than the Wmii, AildiJ.
Bit. n.f. [from ^;>^.]
I. As much meat as is put into the mouth

year, is intercalated.

!

Each poet with a diff 'rent tj.ent writes;

One praifcs, one inftrufts, another titet. Rojcaimon,
4. To cut ; to wound.

Unus'd to the relh-aint

Bisse'xtile. n. f. [from ^/> zxidt fextilis,
Lat.] Leap year ; the year in which the
day, arifing from fix odd hours in each

But who, oh

Rcvie's Ambitious Siipmsibcr,

To hart or pain with reproach.

3.

ing the oak for every ii» they put in their bellies,

white, brittle, mineral fubilance, of a metalline nature, found at
Mifnia ; fuppofed to be a recrementitious matter thrown off in the formaSome efteem it a metal /»/'
tion of tin.
generis ; though it ufually contains fome
filver.
There is an artificial hijmuth
made, for the (hops, of tin.
^incy.

and_/f/».]

Sidnty.

runs.

a hard,

^d and fixty-five days and

And the fevcrer heats of parching furaaier.

their

refieOi

Shakiffiearf.

K:n£.

.

ihakejpeare.
Full lii'ty years, harncfs'd in ruijged flee.,

have enJui'd the tiling winter's blaft.

I

He hath the til between his teeth, and away he

And, weary, to ibmc cottage finds the way,
Talks of no pyramids, or fowls, or iijii ot fifli.
But hungry fups his cream ferv'd up in eartiien

Bi'sKBT. See Biscuit.
B I's M u T H n. /. The fame as marcafite

Even till I fl)rir,k with cold, I fmik.

We have ftridk ftatutei, and moft biting fans.

A prince, who in a foreft ijd;:8 aftray.

di(h.

And churliOi chiding, of the winter's windj
Which when it Ai/« and bluwj upon my body.

The needful iifj and curbs of headftrong iteeds.

promoted to kijhipricks thenifelves.

Bi'sHOPSWEFD. «. yr [ammi, Lat.] The
name of a plant.
Bisk. n. /. [ii/que. Ft.] Soup; broth
made by boiling fever J forts of flelh.

Here feel we the icy phang.

branches, the curb, the fevll holes, the
tranchefi!, and the crofs chains ; but
fometimes it is ufed to fignify only the
bit-mouth in particular Farrier's DiS.
Thry li^hc from their horfes, pulling ort their

tends.

good

B I T

2.

Thougli a man in a fever Ihould, fr >m lu^ai^
have a bitter tjlle, which, at another time, produces a fweet one, yet the idea of hi tcr, in that
man's mind, would be as dilliiidl from ih-' idea
rf fwcct, as if he had taftcd only gall.
Luke,
2.

To give paia by cold.

Sharp ; cruel ; fevere.
Fricndt

j

BIX

B I T
Friends now fad Cviotn,
Unfeparable, ftall within this hour.
On 3 diir nfioB of adoit, bicak out
To t.irer.f, enmiiy.
Sbakiff.-^rr.
Huft)a:,Ji, lore

vour wives, and he

r.ii

'

again:! a.un.

i! ter

i

,

a.-r

1

tviti.efs

5ia,(.

Will pr.-ve as tttur, black, and tra-ital. Shakijf.
And /hijn the hiv.!r conf.qupnce: for know.
The day th leat'it ;h;reof, my fole command

! ,0 flij'lt die.
bejr

.

4. Painful ; i,.cleinent.
T' c f-.wl I'le borders fly.
And fliun the hiitu bUft, and wheel about the Iky.
Drydtr.

Sharp ; reproichful ;

5.

afflided.
Wherefoie is lig\ j^ven unto him that is in
mif-.ry, and life untj ihs ihttr in foul ?

J^.

7. In any manner unpleafing or hurtful.
Mititr is an cqu.ioca. w>;rU
there is bimr
;

wormwood, there ai-,- hiiitr words, there are LU'cr
ciemiet.atd il'mtr cold moming. fVain'i Luguk.
B I 't T E R c o u R D . ». y. [colecyHtbh, Lat.
]
The name ot a plant.

call the ihterjkveet, none

„

i fo lively ailed with

my tears,

-

See

BiTTOUR.
The pooriiJi have enemies enough, bcCdes fuch
unnatural fifhcrmen as otteis, the cormorant, and
the Utttrn.

Walton.

So that fcarce
The h'iitern knows his time, with bill ingulpht.
To /hake the founding marfli.
Ibmjtn.

Ei'ttern. n. J. [from

litter.]

A very

bitter liquor, which drains off in making

of common lalt, and uled in the preparation of Epfom fait,
i^'incy.

A bitter tarte.
The idea of whitenefs, or iitlerrij,, is in the

mmd, exiflly an.wering that power which is in
any body ti produce it therr.

Lxkt.

Malice; grudge; hatred; implacability,

he billerntfi and animofity between the commardrrs was fuch, that a great part of the army
wasmarchei.
ClarerdJ.
_
'I

3.

See BiTt;M£N.
Mix with thcfe

H s foriiws have fo ovcrwhelni'd his wits

r

I

we be thus alHiacd in his wreaki,
his f.e, «y, and hisi/Wm/j,'
Staktfp.
int and Crew a.pfared now to
have Cun.

.._-.., Biore ihnrrrfi and foumefs

Sbakejfiare,

than formerly.

a

thoughtlefs babbler ;
betrayer of fecrets.

fpumc,

Mas[Lat.] A fat unftuous

Contempt and (corn of all, to be excluded
All friend Ihip, and avoided as a blab.
Mi/ton.

others fo glutinous

as to ferve for mortar.

a treacherous

To have reveai'd
Secrets of man, the fecrets of a friend.

Jukinds : fome fo hard as
;

A telltale

The fecret man heareth many confelTions ; for
who will open himfelf to a blab, or babbler ? Bacon.

med off lakes, as the Afphaltis in
to be ufed for coals

to tell tales.

Your mute I'll be ;

When my tongue hlah, then let mine eyes not fee.

matter dug out of the earth, or fcum-

daea, of various

Stoift,

in a good fenfe : not ufed.
That delightful engine of her thoughts.
That blabb'd them with fuch pleafing eloquence.
Is torn from forth that pretty hollow
cage.
Shak.
:

To Blab. I-, n. To tattle ;

'""='"'«, and black b\tumt.

BITU MEN. ,. /

To tell

Blab. ti.f. [from the verb.]

Id*an pitch, quick ful. hur, filver's

Savary.

Whoever flieu's me a very inquifitive body, I'll

repoued, that t:,umtn mingled with liinc,
and put under water, will make
as it were an arti-

(hew him a blab, and one that (hall make privacy

It is

ficial

rock, tj.e fuoftasce becomelh fo

as publick as a proclamation.

VEftrangc.
I (hould have gone about /hewing
my letters,
under the charge of fecrecy, to every blab of my

ha.d. Bacon.

The fabrick feem'd a work of riling ground,
V\ ith fulphur an 1 bitumen
cart between.

acquaintance.

DryJrn.

Sivift.

Buumn is a body that readily takes fire, yields Bla'bber.
ti.f. [from blab.] A taller; a

an oil, and is fuluble in wat-r.

Waodivjr,;.

BiTu'MiNous,fl<^. [from bitumen.] Having the nature and qualities of bitumen
;

compounded of bitumen.

Naph;ha, which wa, the blumimut

mortarufed
in the walls of, Babylon,
growj to an entire and
_

Baccn.

Ihe fruiuge fair to fight, like that which
grtw
Mear thubitumintui lake, where

Sodom flam d.

telltale.
'To

:

term ufcd of thofe

fiiTi

that

In
ot

t!;e

<..vitr
•— •-; lies

mc

loofe
t"\j»^ the (hell
iiicii or
of fomrlomf lar'
for

Ligtwo valves.
Bi'xwoRT. n.f. An herb.

p:^

Siinncr.

SeeBLOB-

Ari(totle has problems

fun

which enquire why the
makes man black, and not the fire.; why it

wiiitens wax, yet blacks the (kin ?

2.

Bro-wn,

Dark.
The heaven was black with clouds and wind,
and then- was a i;r'-'t rain.

3.

4.

i ATingi.

Cloudy of countenance ; fullen.
She hath abated mc of half my train;
Lo ik'd black upon me.

Woodward.

BiVA Lvt/LA R. /7<^'. [from bi'valve.] Hav-

To whiftle to a horfe.

In the twilight in the evening, in the black and
dark night.
Proveris.

bnatw. larger than could be intr duced in at

"'^''^ *"'''<•

t/. ».

BLACK, adj. [blac, Saxon.]
1. Of the colour of night.

have two

asoyih>rs; and of thofe plants
whofe feed pods open their whole lengcli,
to difcharge their feeds, as
peas.

.

Skinner.

::

Ihfils,

E L a'b B e R

Bla'bberlipped.
BERLIPPED.

Milt!,n.
'
•
n
UiVA
lve. adj. r^
[from binus and 'ual'v^,
Lat.] Having two valves or (hutters

bnarpnefs ; feverity of temper.
Shn

z.

perhaps as properly bittour.
head :

:

Nor blab it on the lonely rocks.
Where echo fits, and lifi'ning mocks.

The name of a bird, commonly
called the bittern (fee Bittern)
but
Tlien to the water's brink (he laid her

StilUngJIeH.

Nor whifpcr to 'the tattling reeds

The blackell of all female deeds

Lat.j

very hard matter, like a itone.

Bi'ttermess. n./. [from bitter.]
I.

A

Bi't tour. »./. [butour, Fr. ardeaftellarii,

Bi'TTERN.B./[^a/aar, Fr.] A bird with
long legs, and a long bill, which feed»
upon fifli ; remarkable for the noife which
he makes, ufually called bumping.

unlawful to give any kind of religious worto a creature ; but the very indices of the
fathers cannot efcape the index exfurgalorius, fat
It is

b.'albing fo great a truth.

T, r^".?i"°"'

His behaviour ii not to cenfure bittcrh the erroursof their zeal.
Sirat.

Our foreheads i/«i the fctrets of our heart. Dryd.

herb.

Miktf,.

Sharply ; feverely.

Hudibras.

(hip

Bi'tterwort. «./ [gentiaita. Lit.] An

And, as a h\tt(.ur bumps within a reed.

;

Sorrow nor joy can be difguis'd by art.

plant.

Eiitcrl} haft thou paid, andflill art paying

3

Nor what dark fectets there inhabit,
Unlefs his own rafh folly blab it.

Walt,,

bi TTERVETCH. ». /. [ervum, Lat.]

Shakefftart.

That rigid fcore.

To pobli/h what he does within doors

can miltake what I mean.

To thee alone, O Jake, (he faid, I tell. Dnd<n.
BiTu ME. ;,./ [from^//««M.J Bitumen.

That my poor miftiefs, moved therewitiial.

Wept ii/f^r/ji.

From her cabin'd loophole peep.
Milton.
Nature has made man's breafts no wlndores.

Scuth.

,

Bi'tterly. adv. [from Utter.]
1. With a bitter talle.
2. In a bitter manner; forrowfully ; calamicoufly.

The nice morn on the Indian fteep.

When I exprefs the tafte of an apple, which we

Mournful;

Shaktffeare.

Ee the blabbing ealtern fcout,

make amene,

for the fmart an J poilon of his
fling.

the bofom of the fea.

Thy dues be done, and none left out,

It is but a bitlerfwctt at beft, and
the line co
lours of the ferpent do by no means

,

may be ufed ia

The gaudy, blM'mg, and remorfeful day
Is crept into

I oft, in hiiirnrfs of fou!, depior'd

with mc,
And, in the jreadi <:( iuifr words, let's fm' thrr
M., J:.mi.,-J ron.
Sbaktiptare.

but

either fenfe.

My abknt daughter, and my desrer lord. P(^e.
Bi rTkRswEET. n. /. [from bitter
and
/u-eef.] The name of an apple, which
has a compound talleof fweet and bitter.

U

6.

than treachery;

Wake.

fatirical.

ufually implies rather thoughtleflhefj

it

Mod

Miltm.

my biitcr fate,
d h.s vengeance for my fjn. Drjdnt.
cJiac if 1

To tell what ought to be kept fecret:

J.

.Stahfffa,!.

They /hall mourn for him, as one mourneth
for his only fon, and (hall be in
biturnefi for hii.i.
as one tliat Is in hUterneft lor his
(irft-born Zich.
puifuc the pk-afarss, as they cail them,
of their naruics, whicij begin in fin,
are carried on
with d3nt,er, and end in liiurmfi.

And will K, France, hoping the confetjuence

TcJ. hin.
'Ti: c Lc

To BLAB. -v. a. [ilaiberen, Dutch.]

mo.left enough, with-

out a bad-e of kuterniji.

days ;

it is yet called a bizamine,
anciently was a piece of gold
coined by the empcrours of Conftantin"p!e.
Camden,

affliftion.

tiiat joy could not /how itfelf

t;;

Traj.i^reft, i.ievitatiy

val

which

There appears much joy in him, even fo much,

j

A dire ijiduAion

Sorrow; vexation;

:,.

Gc with me, like [^j^ - i,eis," :o my end.

which the king olFereth upon high fefli-

:

5.

a:, whom to leave

:

byzantine ; hom Byzantium.]
A great
piece of gold valued at fifteen pound,

the^ dart out fomewhat piquant, and to the quick
men ought to find the difference between faUncfs
and titlermf,.
g^,^„

;

I3 only iincr to ir.e, or!',

Bi'zANTiNE. n. /. [more properly fpelt

Satire; piquancy; keennefs of reproach.
Some think their wits have been afleep, except

4.

UloJjUmu

Noi/Je friends and t'c

B L A

and viscremore referred towards the king's commif-

The wjid of God, io^ad of a iilier, teachc; us
ichaHubc zeal.
Sfrar.
3. Calamitous
miferable.

a.

;

;

.

Shake/peart.

Horrilile ; vvicked ; atrocious.
liitbqr my country never mull be freed,

Or I c >~fer.ring to lo black a deed.
5. Difmal ; mournful.

''
,

DryJn,

A dirt

'

;

;

'

'A i'lrt mdufllon tm I witntfs to

7fl

And will to France, hoping the cojirequence
Viill proTe as bitter, black, and tragical.

Shaiejf.

6. Black and blue. 1'he colour of a bruife ;
a ftripe,
Milliers Ford, good heart, it beaten hlaclt and
Sbakefptare'i Merry Jf^rves of IVwdJor,
And,wing'd with fpeed and fury, flew

To lefcue knight from black and blue.

Give me my Romeo.
Sbalifpearc.
Thus when a black-hrsv/'d guft begins to rife,
White foam at firft on the ciirl'd ocean fries.
Then roars the main, the billows mount the (kies
Drydtr,.

B L A c K - B R y o N y «./ [tamaus, Lat. ] The

Addifin.

we call llaek-catlle, produces hides, tallow, and
beef, for exportation.

Swiff.

Black-earth. «. /.

It is every where
obvious on the furface of the ground,
and what we call mould.
Wocdiuard.
Black-guard, adj. [from black and
guard."] A cant word amongft the vulgar ; by which is implied a dirty felt
low ; of the meaneft kind.

Let a black-guard boy be always about the
houfe, to fend on your errands, and go to market
for you on rainy days.
Swifi.

Loch.

Bla'cktail. n.f. [from black ana tail.]

ftale old

Bla'dder. n.f. [blabbj-.e, Saxon; blader,
Dutch.]

mc.ufe-caten cheefe Ncftor, and that fame

the urine.

Sbakejfeare.

The bladder (hould be made of a membranous

Then fad he fung the Children in the VVood

and extre;nely dilatable, for receiving
and containing the urine till an opportunity of
Ray.
emptying it.
2. It is often filled with wind, to which
fubftaiice,

How blackberries they pluck'd in defaits wild.
And fearlefs at theglittcring faulchion fmil'd. Gaj-.

Bla'ckbird. n.f. [from black and bird.]
The name of a bird.
Of

.

fuiging

birds,

have linnets,

tlicy

allufions are frequently made.
That huge great body which the giant bore
Was vanquifli'd quite, and of that monftrous mafs
Was nothing left, but like an empty bladder was.

gold-

finches, blackbirds, thruflies, and divers others.

Carew.

A fchoolboy ran unto't, and thought

Spenfer.

The crib was down, the blackbird caught. S-wift,
Bla'ck EN. f. tf. [from black.]
1
To make of a black colour.

A bladder but moderately filled with air, and
ftrongly tied, being held near the fire, grew exceeding turgid and hard ; but being brought nearer
to the fire, it fuddenly broke, with fo loud a noife
Boyle,
as made us for a while after almoft deaf.

'To
.

Blelsd by afpiring winds, he finds the Ilrand
Prior.
Blackened by crowds.
While the long fun'rals blacken all the way, Pofc.
2.

To darken

;

.You muft iirft get your black-lead iharpened
finely, and put fall into quills, for your rude and
firft draught.
Peacbam.
Blacjc-mail. h./.
certain rate of mo-

South.

3.

dark.

and grain.
Through they were lin'd with many a piece
Of ammunition bread and cheefe,

And fat b/aik-puddmgs, proper focid
Hudihras.

The hollow found
Sung in the leaves, the foreft (hook around.
Air blacken'd, roll'd
ground.

the

thunder,

grcsn'd

the

Dryden.

Black- ROD. n. /. [from ^/flir/{ and ?•(!</.] Bla'ckish. adj. [fromblack.] Somewhat
The ufher belonging lo the order of the
black.
garter ; fo called from the black rod he
carries in his hand. He is of th;; king's
chamber, and likewife ufher of the parliament.
Covell.
Bl.ack. n./. [from the adjeftive.}
I,
black colour.

A

Jllack is the badge of hell.

The buepf dungcpr.s, and the fcowl of night. Sbak.
Fpr the produ.ftion of black, the corpufcles muft
be lefs than any of thofc which exhibit culnuts.

Nitbun.

%. Mourning.
Rife,,wrctched widow, rife; nor, undeplor.'d.
Permit ray ghoft to pafs the Stygian ford :
But tiff, prepar'd in blatk to mourn thy perifti'd
lord.

Drydii:.

3.

A blackamoor.

.4,

/That part of the eye which is black.
It fufnces that

be in every part of the air,
which is as bj| as the Hack or figlit of the eye.
it

•

ZJi^iy.

Part of it all the year continues in the form of a
blackifr oil.

ufual

for

thofe,

that learn

to

bladders.

fervant no bigger than a man's hand, but ptefently
after grew, and fpread, and blackened the face ot

the whole heaven.

is

fwim, to fupport themfelves with blown

To defame, or make infamous.
Let us blacken him what v^•e can, faid that mifney, corn, cattle, er other confideration,
creant Harrifon of the blell'ed king, upon the wordpaid to men allied with robbers, to be
ing and drawing up his charge againft his apSouth.
by them proteiled from the danger of
proaching trial.
The morals blacken d, when the writings 'fcapc,
fuch as ufually rob or Heal.
Covxll.
The libell'd perfon, and the piftur'd Ihape. Pope.
Black-pubding. n./. [from black and
To grow black, or
pudding.] A kind of food madeof blctod To Bla'ck EN. -v. n.

a

For warriours that delight in blood.

It

3.

to cloud.

That little cloud that appeared at firft to Elijah's

er not without a very great heat.

.

That veflel in the body which contains

1

dog-fox Ulyfles, is not proved vi'orth a h'ackherry.

A mineral found in the lead-mines,
not fufible,

plexion ; a negro.
They are no more afraid of a blackanire, or a

bramble.
The policy of thefe crafty fneeringrafcals, that

Black-lead. a./, [from black znilead.]
it is

The WacJS/iBifA may forge what he pii-afes. Hov>et,
Shut up thy doors with bars and bolts i it will
be impoflibic for the Hackfmith to make them fo
fall, but a cat and a whoremifter will find a way
ipeBator.
through them.

lion, than of a nurfc or a cat.

name of a plant.
xows.
The other part of the grazier's bufinefs is what

and

Bla'ckberried Heath, [ejnpetrum, Lat.]
A fifh ; a kind of perch, by fome called
Di3.
The name of a plant.
See Pope.
raffs, or popes.
Bla'ck BERRY Bujh. n. f. [rubus , Lat.] Bla'ckthorn. n. J', [from black and
thorn.]
The fame with the fl'je. See
A fpecies of bramble.
BLA'c«BERRy. n.f. The fr«iit of the
Plum, of which it is a fpecies.

.

Black-cattle. ». yl Oxen, bulls, and

/ [from black

«.

A

fmith that works in iron ; fo
fmith.]
called from being very fmutty.

And bid him piate in his white plumes no more.

Bla'ckamoor. n. /. {from black and
and
Moor.] Atnan by nature of a black com-

night.

;

nefs-

Bla'cksmith.

Then in his fury black" d the rav«n o'er.

Hsidibrai.

.jny 5 difmal ; .threatening.
Come, geniie night j come^ loving, i/aci-brow'd

much ufed for pencils

His faults in him feem as the fpots of heav'n.
Shakefpeare.
More fiery by night's blackrefs.
3. Atrocioufnefs ; horribleaefs ; wicked-

Beyle.

fire.

DarkneFs.

2.

Blackirg over the paper with ink, not only the
ink would be quickly dried up, but the paper,
that 1 could not burn before, we quickly fet on

Blacic-browed. adj. [from black
bro'w.'] Having black eyebrows ; gloo-

,

To

Black, v. a. [from the noun.]
make black ; to. blacken.

hint, that you cannot fee a white fpot about her.

.

B L A

B L A

B L A

.

.

Byle.

B L a'c K MOOR. n.f. [from black and Moor.]

A negro.
The land of Chus makes no part of Africa

;

nor is it the habitation of blackmoors ; but the
country of Arabia, cfpecially the Happy and Stony.
Br:/U!ns Vulgar Eirours.

More to weft
The realm of Bacchus to the blackmoor fea. Milten.
Bla'ckness. n./. [fromblack.]
I. Black colour,
Bltcknrjs is only a difpofition to abforb, or ftiflc,
without rcflefl/on, moft of the rays 0/ every fort

I have ventur'd.
Like little wanton boys that fwim on bladderSf
Thefe many fummers in a fea of glory.
But far beyond my depth: my highblown pride
At length broke under me.
SbakeJ'peare*

4.

A blifter

;

a puftule.

Bladder-nut.
Lat.]

ti.

y.

[Jlaphylodendron,

A plant.

Bladder-sena. n./.Jfe/a/M, Lat.] The
name of a plant.

BLADE. H. /

[bisb, bleb. Sax. bled,
Fr.] The fpire of grafs before it grows
to feed ; the green Ihoots of corn which
This feems to me
rife from the feed.
the primitive fignification of the word

from which, I believe, the blade
of a fword was firft named, becaufe of
its fimilitude in ihape ; and, from the
blade of a fword, that of other weapons
blade ;

or tools.
There is hardly found a plant that yieldeth i
red juice in the blade or ear, except it be the tree

that heartth fanguis draconiu

Bacon*

Send in the feeding fiocks betimes, t' invade

The rifing bulk of the luxuriwtt blade.
Drydcn.
If wc were able to dive into her lecret receffes,
we fliould find that the fmalleft blade of grafs, or
moft contemptible weed, has its particular ufe.
$tvift%

Hung on every fpray, on every blade
Of grafs, the myriad dewdrops twinkle round.

Locke.

Tbomfon.

There would emerge one or more very black

Blade. »./ [hlatte. Germ, blad, Dutch.]
I. The (harp or ftriking part of a weapon

that fall on the bodies.

fpots, and, within thofe, other fpots of an intenfer
hlackneji.

Nricton.

His tongue, his prating tongue, had chang'd him
quite

To hoty iltickiiefi from the purcft white. Mdijon.

or inftrument, diftiudl from the handle.
It is ufually taken for a weapon, and fo
called probably from the likenefs of a

fword

;

B L A
It

commonly applied to the knife.

thcmlelves.
p, -

Dryhn

2.

brafs-diiplays

A

tturage.

VouH find yourfelf miftaken. Sir, if
you'll
take opon you Co judge of thefe
bUdt, by their
earbs, looks, and outward appearance.

bone.

of

Pof€.

To

furnilh or fit with a blade.

Bla'ded.

adj.

[from

blades or fpires.
Her filrcr vifige in the wat'ry glafs,
Decking with liquid pearl the AW,J

Blaiv.

n I,
all
th

.

.

,

If .hey went back

Be general Icprofy.

B'Jtches and blauu mufl all his

And, h„ people.

flcfli

Is not the caufer of

my body all inUam'd

j^/,^„_

Bla'mable. adj. lUova blame.\
ble; faulty.

Bla'mableness. n.f. [from

Culpa'^

of being

blame; culpablenefs ;

iiatlJ^ZLTt

The flame, afcend on either

blamable.l
liable

While thus the blamelef, maid

to

faultinefs.

To cenfure; to charge with a fault-

,

„

Each findmg, hke* friend,
Something to bUne, and fomething
to

"*°«.P"'in«y. hold out, that wi'

here all along ot th", word

.

;s

Blame,

for making ufe
fentimenu
L«h.

Hlft. ^f,he rurki

[from the verb.]
I. Imputation of a fault.
t.f.

lo arm;, the praifc olfucccfl

is

L

1 ,

in

5)0ft words;

2.

,

thefe cow'rirg

-

kind fpeeches.

lund treatment

J.

low

"^^/^^^^

that he took to heart.
;

*

n
carefs.

T'" "'"' ^^•""''P'>'M detains :
R, ^Tr
^c"^^ the
But
I fufpedl
town where^Juno reign..
Dryd.
.

1'

""""'""i'y^ neither blandijh.

', „*

"^^r""
»«r,n.rprom,fc,
are omitted.

BLANK,

adj.

[hlanc,

Fr.

'
.s4>.
derived Ly

Menage from Albianus. Xhyx% :

'^^

albtamcus

b,amcus.

AlbiaiJ,

biancus, -bianco,

llantcus. b/a,uu,, hlanc

by others, from
;
blanc, which, ,n
Danifli, llgnifies /»,V,.
'ng ; in conformity

virfur::^!^.''"'''''''^^'"'"-^''-'^^-^'''
Donne

thy of

,

^""tnefs and bland,Jhm,nt of
word.,

wh.„ K^j

to

the Sax;
ons, blxcan
and the Englifh. bleach.
;

[from blame and
Culpable; blamable; woror cenfure.

Although the famelhould
bt blame^uortbi. ytl

AareiT among

to whiten.]
I.

White.
'"'^"""''

ilocktr.

which, the Gcri

mans have blanch,; to fhlne

,
Bl;imewort„v.
adj.

T Tlblame

,

;

miltaught

r)

.

V^a^blaM„..c.,

Homer, that al'

.'

blames or finds fault; a
cclrer
In me you-ve hallowed
a pagan
And denizon d a Kranjer, who mufe.

Sometimes, but rarely, of.
Tomoreu,

^"'"grefolvediwih him

cnargeable onjupiter^and
ana

!,•_

^

hent,
^'"'^'•J'^""'
Spcnjjr,

taeh bird and bend, behold
Approaching two and two

'nal7Jd.

fate, thry
rate,
J"K""
th.y infer,
nicr. wir^
with
h^-r,,thei/W,^Wtheinferio'urasUC';.

commend.

'''"'""" '"'' '"''''

•Can' fmit '

i

expreffion of tender-

;

by gefture.

The little babe up in his arms he

Innocence ; exemption from
cenfure.

Diyden.

he Uamci cf inconfiderate
rartinef-,
for that he would bufy hlmfelf
in matters not be
longing t- hii vocation. Kmltc,',

neis

Bla melesness. „./ [from
ilamele/s.-]

The reader mull not hUmt me
3.

1. Aa of fondnefs

^'5 ""-^-". '«-"« which he an„°
ITaZni

To blame has ufually the
particle 7or
before th; fault.

2.

Ui-ANDisHMENT. „. / [(rom blartdijh

"'."H' °Vf^f^"S "r'icit artidr,, and
nnr'rh.'
not
the not b:l,eving
them when not reveaiej or

h^Jt'
bu.g
danger of ruin on any.

aCuilts,
ftc fo.ceas'd not day nor night

me ovcr-watch'd, and wearv'd our. Milt.

'*>=

which men

Shahjpure.
Porphyrlu^ you too far did tempt
your tatcTis true, your duty to mc it became
;
But, praifing that, I maft your
conduft hiame.

^

Innocently ; without crime.

Ourpinv'r

Way blame, but not conlroul.

1 o^ftorm

blanditiee, Lat.]

[from blameu/.]

•

.

Jojhua, ii. 17.

ad'v.

Lat.]

I have met with

m no other paflage.

J ongue-batteries,

oath.

D A ME.
Bl
,ESLr.

[blandior,

«.

MulVring all her wiles.
...
W.I.
z,
With iWj«V
parleys, feminine

We will bzblamdef.ofxkh thineof.

Jt generally implies a flight
cenfure.
Shall do a courtfy to our wrath,

S?

^.

fmooth ; to foften.

this word

^'"'"'

'

a. [blamer, Fr.]

^;p^r' "' ^•

n,„fi„,

Blandish.
1

addrcfs'd her prayV.

jlilitT
-v.

V^

'"^

""

Sometimes it is ufed vvith

2.

definitive fentence.

—

l^hakefteare

altar

Aiikon.

An even calm

Such a leirening of our
coin will deprifeVen
number, of blamelfs men
of a fi.th par't of fhdr

m

I.

"^'"~"^'

prompt;

ihe thus addrefs'd.

l"r-[<-l^\ rcign-d, fave what the zephyrs bland
Breath d o'er the blue
expanf^

cenfure or blame.

B:.A'MABLT.a</i/. [from bla/nntle.]
Culpably ;
a manner liable to cenlure
A procefs may be carried on againft a perlon,
that IS malicioudy or bUn,My
ablent, even to a

To BLAME,

Which, with WaW words at will,

Bla'mhless. adj. [from blame.] "^'"'"
Gu.ltlefsj innocent;
exempt
^ from

Virtue is placed between two
extremes, which
we on both fides equa'ly btamatlt.
Drydtn.
ftate

In her face excufe

Came prologue, and apology too

blameful bed
Some Item untutor'd churl.
kl„i u

S-w\ft.

IZ\

„. f,

gentle.

!u^'^"'-

rhy mother took into her

;

^

[from blanch.] A
whitener.
2)/^
BLAND, adj. [blandus, Lat.] Soft; mildj
'

lord fo much,

Wi^th yellow filth my linen ftains.

the

Blancher.

''
Bluntwitted lord, ignoble in
demeanour,
If tver lady wrong'd her

Which breaking out in boils and hlam,

Fault ;

Ofiim confiUrii mortui ; books will
fpcak plain.

thefe timelefs deaths
?

To

whenc.unfellorsi/.„.A,

before they came.

A^ blameful as the executioner

II

Whene er I hear a rival nam'd,
I feel

CH^.

<-riminal ; guilty
; meriting blame.

ShaUfpeare.
imbofs.

To flur; to balk; topafs over; tofhift
away. Not now in ufe.
The judges thought it dangerous to

T

fuin

Athenian bofoms, and the ct»p

ro

^accn.
Vrt
"'t tranfported in an aaion that
warms
tVthe u,
blood and ,s appearing
holy, to blanch, or
take (or admitted, the
point of lawfulnefs. Bdcon.
/^» Bl A
„.
N
evade ; to /hift
to (peak foft.

Blameful, adj. [from blame mA Prior

Jtehes, i/ji«.

;

admit ifs
and ands, to quaHfy
tieafon; whereby every one
and bia„cb his danger.

in the manner.

Now we fhould hold them much ,0

A

d

might expreis his malice,

Fairy Sl^ern.

'* *''"'"' '^'y "^-^ miftitcnf'but;
whlrlT
whether"?h
they were ,0 blame

Dryd.

bv agfto

fyTfcmar.

firft giftl

[blejene. Sax.
/.
bleyne.
puilule ; a botch ; a bMer.

».

Dutch.]
c
Sow

breeds.

tradefmcn

And fin's black dye feems blancb'J

ftrip or peel fuch things
as have
hulks.
Their flippers may be bilket,
raiCns of the fun,
and a few blanched almonds.

3-

You were K i/a„,, j „„(i ^^ j^j^ ^-^
To part fo flightly with your wile's

grafs. Shah
^» *}'"= the light,,ing runs along the ground,
X.
Nor bhded grafs, nor bearded corn fucceeds.

But fcales of fcurf and putrefaftion

Siaiejfcare.

Not now in ufe.

To blame,
in i-rench a tort
; culpable ; worthy of
'
cenlure.

Having

blade.-\

2.

here abjure
myfelf.

i here is a peculiar
ftruaure of this
word, in which it is not
very evident
whether it be a wa« or a
verb, but I
conceive it to be the „om,.

4-

and we have fct down
the prailice of

who tlarch it.

;

tairlybleiK

called a bladeb'jne.

[from the noun ]

Hurt.

cheeks.

A way of whiting wax cheaply mayShakfpeare.
be of ufer

Therewith upon his crcft

j called byanatomifts the fcapula, or fcapular

•v. a.

•

When mine is WancAVwith f.ar.

With rigour fo outrageous he fmit,
That a large (hare it hew'd out
of the reft.
And glancing down his Ihield, from
bhme him

JJladeeone.

_

You can behold fuch fights,
And keep the natural ruby of your

which produces or de-

For ftrangers to my nature.
3.

Blade 0/ tie SicMer.rn./. The bone

^0 Blade,

that

;

The taints and W^«„ I bid upon

VEftrarpt.
Then, turning about to the hangman,
he faTd,
Oiipatch me,- 1 pn'thee, this
troublcfome bhde.

a flioulder of mutton, commonly

crime

other colour to white.

r
.
Locke.

,

ferves cenfure.
Who would not judge us to be difcharged of all
*/;>»?<•, which are
confeft to have no great fault,
even by their very word
and teftimony, in whofe
ey« no fault of ours hath
ever hitherto been ac
cuitomed to feem fmall.
h^^^^,.
unfpeak
1
mine own detraflion

briik man, either fierce or gay,
called
fo in contempt.
So we fay mettle for

He tell mod furioufly on the broiled relicks

1

1

Fa\ry 0u.
She knew the virtue of h=r blade',
nor would
foUute her fabre with l-rioble blood.

2.

To BLANCH. 'V. n. [bloHcblr,
Fr.J
I. To
whiten; to change from fomtf'

!s charged

°
upon one.
,,
J
t/ayitiard.
,,
Tk
they lay the b/ame
on the poor little ones,
fomcfmes paffionately enough,
to divert it from

To bathe in blood of faithleis enemv.
Be his this fword, wnofe bladt of

B L A

many J yet the blame of mifadventuws

is

He fought ali lour.d about, his thirfty i/^^t

f

L A

B

/Word ilcde to a blade of grafs.

i
Tr.ir^hVr"^'
Ihcirpl.metary motion^.

'»

"^'•">" fiv«
Mdti„.

Without

'

;

,

B L A
Wilkftt «T'ttii)g i

S.

B L A

B L A
empty

unw-ritteR ;

"«| an Hwrka.
Our lubftiturei >t home fhiU line M<nt chittcrt,
Whctrto, when tbfy know th«t men ire rich,
Tbcy IhiU fublcribe cIkqi Idr luge fufns of cold.

S.T belter, Lear, and let me Aill temaiB
The true i'.'aul of thine eye,
Slsktfffare,
Tt Blank. <i-. «. [from t-Lmi i 6li»-

on the fecond.l Impioufly
with regard tr God.

thir, Fr.]

To damp

I.

to confiife ; to difpirit.

;

Each oppoCte, that K^inlti the face of toy,
Upon the debtor fi<ic> I &ad innun-cahle srtiMeetwhatl would have W'f
.^mI.
cle> ; but, upon the creditor 6dc, Uttk more ihin
Dagoa nuft ftooy, aitd v
Such a di(comfir. ss 1^1 ill c
...
^
confiifed ; crufhed ; difpirited ;' ^ Of all thefe b.
won on me.
J. P»le ;
'j «^*^ft;'ppers. .W?^^.
And with cor
Albdued ; dcprefTcd.
If the athci'.l, »:ic.-. K,TIttte wKhout fuch boaA,or 6ga of joy.
hit foul trmaint, how will
Solicitous ind tUnk, l:e t. ut be^an.
JkCtkm,
iirtW.'
Ad«m, Ccon a> he heard
J
i. To efface; to annul.
The fatal trefpafs d.•^^.c by Etc, amax'd,
-^
Aftonied ftood, and HAttk, while honour chill
All fotroer porpofcs were JiVih/, thr ^ ^
Ran through his rans, and all hit joiotj rciai'd.
at a bay, and all that charge Ibft and
'

'

.

:

-

O tr-jT, rake

^u the godt daft move.

To cauic full w
BU^ttmzm w.^

h'ucanfl not refiS;
.

Ami darV t)

'

To worihip thee

,

....je

.

m

ti.-:.

Lon( have your cart been

A

warmth.
Nor hear'n peep tfaiooffa tiwMMteof the darl.

with tra^ick

fill'd

To vr\

hold hold
^mk^irt.
The abilitiet of nan mall fall ihoit oa mm fide
or other, like too fcanty a hUiia when joo an
a-bed ; if yr>u pull it upoa your &9uMcn, you

pttti;

Blood lad Html yafe have harden'd all your heartt.

Oar Unt Tcrfe, where then it no rhrme to fup-

A

.

:•

.

>

2.

cannot WTite a paper hill as 1 ufcd to do \ and
yet 1 «riU Dot fottiTC a U*»k of half an inch from
you.
i«!7>,

L.-.

le^

Blank, u.f. [from the adjefUve.]
I.

!

vnu thtwft it down apoD
e uncovcnd.
7iwfit.
ied chiefiKe fpkt.
As from the i—^ttt high in air he flir<.
F.-fe.

u

port the cxpt«fioa, it extremely difficult to fuch
arc not maften in the tongue.
jU£Jtm,

void (pace on paper.

*

,

A

kind

m iJM/^kimt.^

.

A lot, by which nothing is gained ;
which has no prize marked upon it.
If you have hcarJ \our general ta.k of Rome,
And of his friends there, it is lots to A.,»»Ji
name hath touch'd %'our ran.
Sk^kijft*^,

My

My face I'.l (;rimr with fi!th

A paper from which the writing is
effaced.

She hat left him
I tell thee,

euouch, flie hat ^ite onmann'd h'ni.

A paper unwritten

4.

;

any thing with-

out roaiks or charaifters.
For him, 1 think not oa bia { for his thouffatr.
Would they wctc ilamb, iMbct than fiJ'd with
what is neceffary,

O.:
Seais

to a i^-iti of danger.

)

.

Sitktf.

>.^; ;i,c book of knowlcdp fair,
Prrfcotej with an uni^eifsl iltmk
Ofnjture's«x»iks, tome ripun^'iand rat'd.

^f;.'.-.

is

{riit -•f virnje.

yet without any chara&is 01
Rtgrr^,

The point to which aa arrow is dirrA-

5.

ed ;

fo called,

fible, it

becaulV, to be mote vi-

u;u marked wuh white.

Now

.'per
:

o'er the

>e csnnon

Til

Ah.

6.

-ter,

.'

oh

And
And
F
7.

blr>«t

,

M»i

h'. n.

Siitkijlf*0rt.

'Vif.-;^,

J

Bot wfc.-

F

^ twf A
wretch that fpeaks of God in imptoos
i

.j

.".n

rT>

-

c

><•«

,-^5ioat.

A.io t,

Z>i7w-'ca.

pcrs, it is ctttata irUlaiaj liat at good a title t? a
Ht/t tmta i)k ftvfw truspet, at virtue has (rem
the former,
SviO,

The ftroke of* malignant plare: ; is^

3.

infeftion of any thjag peililenti*.'. [teoa

the verb 7* lljifi.'\
B\ the «»yf of Cxi they pTsfli.
Te Blast, v, «. [ftxMn the noon,]
C.i'-rn;;v.

'ngflanm

kiaMf woaM inward];

rearovo^ .at Ik ia lat heart

mSy

)«b« t w

^Mitf.

—

ily bafe tfetKx.

I

,

'^

:'c4^ dtaw.i by
jJ her pnde.

i.

s r.-: ;.^ ni.. -.

.

.:;«iod?

ufual y fpokt

b-

.

;

J*^.

;it

it

r oi ;...s, it

5c«t .'*..»*.

tiwte not Ibae cbeCea cuiie,

Vn>a own hit gntiutb ta liit cuont^v't t«ia }

It

on the

-• with

'

y,

tu f^»xrt»A An,

Soae hiddca tboadec ia the Aaie of kea««s.
Red with aaooaunoa wrari^ lo tJ)t the a>an

he rod,

Bla'sfhemous. «^. [from /.V^irwf.
£rll fyUable,

o.t

"ge. ?i.-t«S.

>

Sh.'

Jii,

To ftrike with fame fudden plague or

1,
I ^Taarfr.

Decjule tue iniui;

JHSha.

Whether there be two jifierrat goddcHcs called
Fame, or oac feMeft feotriBng two diSr^vnt trsm.

was be^re a Mg^tearr, and 1 perfecutor,

injur* out.

SlJli^un.

oampet—tbe aagelick Uajf

Shake at the baichil iitA, the fi^aal of the war.

I

H

aur eatt,

action f! the Vfsa.

The Veli.-ie lountains, and fulphamat K«r,

mv.

Blasphe'iher. m./. [fi\>m t/

.e
^

To fpeak blafpheS»<*;^ae*.

.T\

TI.

Thoft wl).> Awn oar taboan heap tbcir board,

is

.

..ch any thing

In pea^r ;'.Kr: \ .-i.->;h: s fo becantet a BMB,

SiaU^ttr..

•

DriJrm.

1

As mo;.-

Lat.]
To fpeak in terms of impious irrererence of God.
2. To fpeak evil of.
The tiucii iflije of thy throne
By hit own imerdiaion Aandt acran'd;.

a-.l

.^et withAwfca*.

by blowing sny ininimcnt of wind mu£ck.

2.

1.

punilhed them aft in every ffUttegK, and
jtSs,
compel ed them to tjfi mti ,

—g

Tsr~- .1. nt wrn. hernM by the fcachaa ivUf,
-A

LiwrofMj^ urf.f J«w.

embracej

hau blown onto the

frtnaps tny tortuneaotii egMKal ike windt,

Skimur.
low ; to roar.
Te BLASPHE'ME. v. *. [Mf^^&ow, low

7« B L A s r H c' M B . V. ».

.

D.^th loofe or biad ikar Utdt ia-feret cave. Ft^.

;

And doct HJIm hit breed.

Hwo,

^; I

.-

. .irrt Wrjtnaff's tcngur to T«ge^

-

Ob,

Th.iu unfobf
1 >.

with confufion.

ncl's ;

I

i .r hailjt king
t'>v»

them i
Aad, if ihey fall, they 4a& tlaemfehei t» pieces.

Pfe.

l^.en Ikat Itj^laair

I< f alte beyond my aim { »ut ^f the
v<i-

A guft or pufi'of wind.

Bla'k k:.t. tul'v. [from ^'diti.] In a blank
with whitenefs ; with palemanner

:

Sitkr^*tn.

H—mmd.

I'hey thai .land hi^l. hitemaay litJU to ftalte

he cry'd, what ftirst, what Uae, but

!

Not ufcd.

.

faperfciaBy gaed,
w hidi it

fir as he IS pleafcd to icveal himfcif,

pe^lefi Wj^Aflwj to imagine.

knows

W

'.Mi'JiS-t.

s

.

.•VS,

Slander.

V

.'

\

and irreverent term;.

difoTed.

rciett, bat oely

th-

BU'piim:' their feeder, and l> rget their lord. Pif*

Life n\x\ he cne great hUmk^ which, though not
bloi^eJ with fin,

——

1.

r^Bi-ARE. -i. ». [iiwiar, Dutch.] Tobel-

The Aunrf of what he was

;

SUJjitrr}, ttri^iy and propcHy, it an .fiet ing sf
r>me indignity, or iajary, uaco Cod himfitif, either by wiirds or writing.
Jtj^t.
Eut that my bcaK '^ oa htwe m'fchief fet,
I anxild fpeak M;/^4a^ ere bidycu fiy;
But fly yon moft.
atalj^ii.
Inttia&ck fOodae& coisfitls in accotdaaoe, aad
-?ty, to the fecret will of God j or
fin =not be dc£ac4 goad, ib far at lu«
e'.:

j

Our purgiogt, pompnitt, Ijhriiriiji, *ad

3.

irrerereaoe.

,

:

.

BUnka my l.^iiu tie all my hair in k:io». .S^'ai.
I. To tofs in a blanket, by way of penalty
or contempt.

^

The worid the coward will defpif:,
When Uic 's a Utnl, who pulls not for • priie.

w

Germ. 10 blow,]

r* Bl.<v'ncet. «. «. [from the noun.]
To cover with a blanket.

I.

In ^rtuneH lottery lies
heap ofiUwIa, like this,
one inull pi^R.

A

.^

wU of b-« reafoo, while 2k
up to coDtioul the eonraji.fi
::>. .^ini ;-.ry?
Svt^,
Bla'sphemt. »./. [from Um^itmt.]

BLAST, nlf. [fhmi bhepc. Sax. hU^i

1

5.

•

».'

Ibmeiiznes written

pear,

ot'

jw*.

.i.i!

Bla'$fheuou.^l\
^-

woollen cover, foft, and loofely woven, fpread commonly upon a bed, over
the lineu theet> for the procurement ci

SUk^etn.

'

verfe ikall halt for it.

iccurft

chnfi.^n. or lut of n.ar-.. ihAu.d vcatttie ta <!«
fu.'
:^Jfi^ma ilkr-

Impicufly ; w^th

Bla'kket. H.f. [HaK(ht!lt,?T.]
1.

do prove. Sii»,
.4 propouni

For ihit attempt, boldet ctiaa that on Etc,
Aad oure iUj*i»mm> t
Miim.
A man can tui^'y oafs the Areett, widtoai having hii eaia grated ».,h b.;«.^d acd kuMmutt
oaths and curfct.
Tilla/a.
That aay thsag that wear* tlw aane
a

.:

But new no face divine contentment weir; ;
*Tis all kU*k fadnefs, or colttinual i'eaii,
Pr/v.
4. Without rhyme ; where the rh^rme is
iUatteJ, or mi fled.
The lad) fltali lay her mind ftoely, or the H«fk

irreverent

z.

To T'
t'pe.'.

^i*ltef 001 wtj^'Sitt.

Aad

BLA

BLC

• i-m

Vast I

«gjMo^ *»'»
Ac
i[,

"

T~^"'

"

j i'

a lb*r «><<.

w ^T

'J ih

i' lit

;

;

* LE

B L E
To dim the eye*.

?.

or difcredit at all unjo you.,-

to propagate tbefe
h!!j(rcd difpoficiiins, what others can unilcrtakc it,

wi'hout fume bletnijb to us, fome reflexion on our
negligence ?
Sprmi.
None more induftrioudy publi(h the hlemipjet ot
an extraordinary reputation, than fuch as lie open

rheum.
The dcfluxioo falling upon the edges of the
Wi^ev.an.

to the

To BuEAT. 'v.n. [bliccan, Saxon.] Tocry
friflc i' th'

fun.

tation,

of an exalted reputhough in the blameable parts of his cha-

racter.

Aiidijon.

A- foil; turpitude ; taint ; deformity.

3.

Sbuhrffesre.
And lltiit the one at tV other.
You may as well ufs tjaertion with the wi^lf,

V/hy he iutl» made the ewe tteat for the lamb.

f irft (hall virtue be vice, and beauty be counted
.3 bit. -.jh.

Ere that I leave with fong of praife her praife to

^Sefcb. of l^atUf*

folemniae.

While on fweet grafs her bkaung char.;e docs lie,
'Our happy lover feeds upon her eye. Rojtivmon.
What bull dares bcUon, or what ihecp dare; hleitt.
Drydtn.
Within the lion's den
?

Bleat, n.f. [from the verb.] The cry
Set in my Ihip, mine ear reach'd, where we rode,
The bellowing of oxen, and the bkat
Chapman.
Of fleecy ihccp.

A

Bleb. n.f. [Wii^/;, to fwell. Germ.]

Skinmr.

bliiter.

Bled. JireUrite and participle, [from To
bUcd.]
.?(»

Bleed, -v. n.

Thatdear fliedicd iromblemijh criminal. Fairy S^.
Is conformity with Rome a bkmijh unto the
ehnrch of England, and unto churches abroad an

ornament ?

pret.

I

ikJ

luve

I

;

[bliban, Saxon.]
i. To lofe blood ; to run with blood.
1 bleed inwardly for my lord.

But freiher than before.

Bleed, bleed, p^or country

Blench, v. n. To Ihrink ; to ftart

To

back ; to give way

!

To die a violent death.

The lamb thy riot dooms to hieed'ia-iiy
Had he thy reaf6n, would he (kip and play ? Pope.
•3.- To. lofe blood medicinally ; as, he hlal
for a fever.
is

Te Bleed, -u. a. To let blood

;

to take

blood from..
That from a patriot of diftinguifti'd note,
Have bled and purg'd me to a fimpic vote. Pope.

Bleit. 7
Blate. J

'^i-

Bafhful.

It

is

ufed in

Scotland, and the bordering

counties.

TflBLE'IVIISH. f. a. [from Ihme, Junius;
from bleme, white, Fr. Skinner.']
I. To mark with any deformity.
Likelier that my outward face might have been
(lifi;uifcd, than that the face of fo excellent a mind

.2.

To defame

;

As caui'e doth miniftcr.
ftrua.

by concerted defamations, cndea.

n.j.

Add'tjon.

[from the verb.]

A mark of deformity ; a fear ; a diminution of beauty.
As he hath caufed a blei/tyh in a man, fo (hall it
be 'done to him again.
not that ;

Leviticus.

from the eye-lid, that you divide
for, in fc doing, you will leave a reme-

it

fo

AUcfs bl:.K:Jh,

Not ufed.

The rebels beliegcd them, winning the

To BLEND,

-v.

ciently, blent,

a.

To confecrate by a prayer.
He blejfui, and brake, and gave the loaves.

To praife

4.

fVifemnn.

Hooker.

With longer life than earth and heav'n can have.
Davitu

one place of Spen/er, ta
fignify the fame as to icave ; to brandip ; to fiourijh. This lignification is
taken from an old rite of our Romilh ancellors, who, bhjjing a field, direded
tht'ir hands in quick fucccl&on to all
parts of itWhijm when the prince to battle new addrefl,
And thrcat'ning high his dreadful droke did (txr.

5. It feems,

preter. I blended; an-

in

His fparkling blade about his head he bUft,

And fmote oH quite bis right leg by the knee.
Fiiiry

Sjaen.

Ble'ssed. particip. adj. [from To ble/sS]

Happy; enjoying felicity.

1.

Bl<l/ed are the barren.

I.yke,

Holy and happy ; happy in the favour
of God.
All generations (hall call m; blejfed.
l,uke,

2.

Happy in the joys of heaven.

3.

B eJJ'ed arc the dead whic)i die in ihe Lord. Rev.
Ble'ssed Thijlle. [c/hV;//, Lat.] The name

To confound.

of a plant.

To pollute; to fpoil

;

to corrupt.

This

but is now wholly obfolcte.
Wliich when he faw, he burnt with jealous f^" j
The eye of reafon was with xa^e yblenr. Fitiry
Regard of worldly muck doth femWy- blend.
And luw abafe th.: high heroick fpirit. Fmry.^
The whilrt thy kingdom from thy head is rent,
And thy throne royal withdi(honour Hen'. Spenfcr.

^

[iroia To blend.]

Ble'ssedlv. adv. [from blejfed.]

The

perfon that mingles.

Blent. The obfolete participle o( blend.
See Blend.

Hap-

pily.

Ho'^f.

fignilication was anciently much in ufc,

Ble'nder. n.f.

for ever.

blefs'd

[blinban, Saxon.]

P9fe.

3.

Matthev3,
to glorify for benefits re-

But blefs'd be that great pow'r, that hath ai

even

'Tis beauty truly ^twr, whofe red and white
Nature's own fweet and cunning hand hach laid
on.
Sbakefpeare.
The mill'ton taught by the ancients is too llii;ht
or grofs ; for bodies mixed acco;ding to their hypothefis, would not appear fuch to the apute eyes
of a lynx, who would difccrn the tleme^cs, if they
were no othcrwife minj;kd, than but blended l>at
Soyle.
not united.
He had his calmer influence, and his mien
Dryden.
Did love and mnjeily together blend,
The grave, where even the great find rci>,
And blended lie ih' opprelTor and tli' opnrcis'd.

2.

;

in all, alone to be bUJfed, adored, and honoured by

To mingle together.

1.

to pro-

Deutaonmty.

his death.

3.

ground on the top, by carrying up great truflV-s
of hay before them, to blench the defendants
Carenv,
fiiiht, and dead their ihoc.

by difordercd and confufed mixtu e.

guilt of (lander and perjury.

Open

To hinder; to ob-

The moon Ihould wander from her beaten way,

vourtto^/<'in^ his chara^cr, incur the complicated

».

a.

'v.

;

nounce a bleiiliig upon him.
And this is the blcding wherewith Mofes th«
man of God bltffed the children of Ifrael before

Sbakefpeare.

the times and fealons of the year blend thcmfelve,-

Potyetif fomebcbidj'tis wifdom toheware. Vtyd.

!

To wilh happinefs to another

2.

all

to tarnifh, with refpedl to

Not that my verfe would blem'tp all the fair ;

3i.e'mi6H-

O

natural, and he both the creator and worker of all

Sbakefpeare.

Hold you ever to our fpecial drift
Though fometimes you do bleneb from this to that,

lepatation.

'I^hofp, who,

Sbakefpeare,

Had X but died an hour before this chance,
had liv'd a blejfed time ; for, from this inftant.
There 's nothing fcrious in mortality.
Shakefp,
Thii kingdom enjoyed the greateft calm, and tlie
fulleft meafure of felicity, that any people, in any
age, for (0 long time together, have been Heffii
with.
Ctarendun,
Happy this ille, with foch a hero blcft ;
What Virtue dwells not in his loyal bread ? Waller,
In vain with folding arms the youth alTay'd
To ftop her flight, and drain the flying (hade ;
But (he retum'd no more, \ablcfi bis longing eyes.
Dryden.
hofpitable Jove
we thus invoke,
Blefs to both nations this aufpicious hour. Dryden.
I

ceived ; to celebrate.
Unto us there is one only gj'de of all agenti

Sidney.

conld have been thus blemijhed.

The (ju.iliry of mercy it not (Irain'd
Upon the place beneath. It is twice blefi'd;
It bleffeth him that gives, and him that takes.

Doth lefi'er bleneh at fuft'erance than I do. Shakejp.

applied to

any thing that drops from fonie body on
incilion, as blood from an animal.
For me tlic balm iliall bleed, and amber flow,
P'pe.
The coral n-dden, and the ruby glow.

know my courfe.

To Blench,

to profper ; to make

It droppcth as the gentle rain of heaven

not ufed.

Patience herfelf, what goddefs e'er (he be,

;

It

:

obfcrve his looks j
I'll tent him to the quick; if he but llench,

gled, or tortured, themfelves are ready to faint, as
Bjiiii.
itthcy /j/iv/.

;

fuccefsful.

I'll

!

[bleppan, Saxon.

To make happy

1

Addijon.

I

To drop, as blood.

Sbakefpeare,

Evadnc's huiband 1 'tis a fault
To love, a bhmijh to my thought.
Waller.
Tliat your duty may no blemijh take,
will
your
make.
I
mylelf
father's captive
Drydcrt.
Such a mirth as this is capable of making a
beau' ., as well as a blemijh, the fubjeft of derifion,

Shatejpeare.

"Great tyranny, lay thou thy bafis fure
Shakefpiare.
For goodnefs dare not check thee
Many, upon the feeing of others bleed, or ftran-

4.

Hooker.
:

On their fui^aining garments not a blemijh.

ileii.

:2.

kidney.

.Live thou, and to thy mother dead attell,

Not a hair pcriih'd

of a (heep or iamb.

a. preterite and participle,

raifing applaufc to thcm-

folves, for refcmbling a perfon

as a flieep.

We were as twlnn'd lambs, that did

fame cenfarcs ;

'V.

blejfed Qx bleji.

Hexker.

And if we (hall ncjiled

Ble'aredness. n.f. [from iUareJ.'\ The
ftate of being bleared, or dimmed with
makes a lltareir.tji.

To BLESS.

That you have been earned, (hould be no blemijij

nienC, to iltar out eyes, and lull lis aflecp in fecuRaitigh.
ricy.

eyclidt,

B L E

Reproach; difgrace; imputation.

2.

This may ftar.i for 1 pretty fupfTficial jrgu-

.

;

.

This aecident of Clitophon's taking, had
hhfl'edly procured'tlu- r

meeting.

fo

Sidney.

Ble'ssed NESS. n.f. [from blsffed.]
1. Happinefs; felicity.
Muny times have 1, leaning to yonder palm, admired the blej'ednefs of it, that it could bear love
without the (tnfc of pain.
Sidney..
His overthrow hcap'd happinefs upon him j
For then, and not till then, he felt h.rafelf,
And found the bleJfeSneJs of being little. Sbak^fp.
2.

Saniflity.
EaithJier happy is the rofc dirtill'd,

Th in that, which, withering on the virgin thorn,
Grows, lives, and dies in fingle blejl'ednefs. SbakeJp.
3.

Heavtnly

'

BL I
J.

corn and fruit, and

5c;«,.''

4. Divine favour.
Ble'sser. n. /. [from ile/s.']

B L I

fometimes injurious even

is

to hinder

corn,

till

And roughly b/igtt the tender buds of jov.
Let reafon teach.

TheCe difcouiles

judge

Ignorant

Dtttbjm.
•
1
1
.
,•
n-1-.Pohtical
jealoufy is very reafonable in
terlons
p»fuaded ot the ey.tei:ency r.f their
conrtitution,

All authors tn their own defers
art: b/inj:
Hadft thou but, Janus like, a face

:

with io before that which

'

.f/r.^w!

vate

My pretty coufin,
-B/^»f upon you
Shak:(piarc
a had moil need of blcfwg, and Amen
Stuck in my thrc.t.

grievous and fcantlalous
inconveiiencies thev
make tl.emlelves fubje«, with
any blind oV
fecret corner is judged
a fit houfe

of

Shahf(,eur,.

prefents which friends
make to one another ; in all probabibty, becauie they are generally
attended

1

•

tangled wood ?

Gaifii.

too bhfi I

The reft fled into a Orong tower, where,

no remedy, they defperately b/co up

To the king's clolct led.

feeinr

liLEYME.

/
n. /.

.

.

™

^°"«-

I.

Farrier's Dia.

fccms taicen

;

wiili bliDi.

Zccbariub.

.

ignorance ; intelleftual darknefs.

2.

All the reit as born of fav..ge
brood.

But svhli bife thoughts, are into
ili„J„cfs led,And kept from looking on the lightfome day.

rcftore it.

Spetifer.
'
XT
Nor can we call,, it choice, when
what we chule.
Folly and Wi„./,,Y/i only could
.

.

refufe.

Wher)foe^vr we would proceed

s^uth.

r.mple Ideas,

to obfcure to the eye

I hat the black night

3-

receives a deeper dye.

To darken the anderllanding.

DrJd.

This my Iong-;uff-ering, and
my day of grace,
They who neglea and fcorn Hull
never taile.
But hard be harden'd, blin-l b.

L'EA "'^''

nunwalftcams; ,t tl.cn blalli vtgeublcs,

*

we fall

V.nham.

beyond

thefe

preferitly into darknefs and
and can difcover nothing farther
but
our own blmdnefi and ignorance.
L^cke
difficulties,

ToOi/r.

7i Blight. ,.. .,. [frohi the noun.]
I. io corrupt with mildew.

To darken

will fniitc every h lufc of
the people

I

mifchief j bur
*'">'" h« AooW lead, U

^"y ''""g ijpping, or blafiing.

y^ir glory.

mine eyes therewith ? and I will

L^f/^i"*'"'^."""''^
unJoubtedly a much greater.
z.

VVant of fight.
-,

A blind guide « certainly a great

complained to the oldeft and
beft garden{rs,

When you come to the proof once,
the firft
Ihih, of f.oft Ihall moa infaUibly
ftnp lou of a

1.

; to deprive of fight.
ou n'mble liglitnings,
dart jouri;,W;„f flames
Into her fcornful eyes
ZhShj^ear..

l-lmd

but it

of fruits.

eae.med it fume tl.ght o! the fpr'ng.

Uli n I) NESS. n.f. [from ^//V;//.]

To make blind

by moft writers, in a o-c
neral fenfc. for any caufe
of the failure
1

DrjA*.

•V

Blicht. »./ [The etymology unknown.!

'

Ihdibrai.
hut lorely
he fanc.es I pby at blindnum\
buff w;th him ; for
he^tnmks I never hav.- i.iy eyes open.
Sullingfieet.

Ti Blind. ^^. a. [from the
ftoun.]

fole and the

Mildew; according to Skinner:

In equal fe.ir of night and day.

Such
on one fide.

An inflammation in the

foot of a horfe, between the

mafk of night.
our champion on his flight;

He imagines I fliut my eyes again;

gallery,

6. BlinJ FeJJih. [with chymifts.]
as have no opening but

Kn://cs.

l':ft

At blindaan's buff to grope his way,

A

ti^mfeivest

bli:,ded more.

4.

1

Mil,

obfcure to the undcrllanding.

The ftatc ..f the controvcrfy bttw«n
us he endeavoured, with .11 hi. art, to
W/Wand confound.

%M

,

Stiltingjica.

:

Dilguis'd in all the

We

DrydcB.
A
A
1
poftem door, yet unobferv'd and
free,
/o.n'd by the length of a blind

p^,,

wth a great part of the caSle, with gunpowder.
I!

"^

are lort.

Blew. The freterite from i.'exu.

Diydcn,

Bli ndman's buff. ». /. A play
in
which lome one is to have his eyes covered, and hunt out the reft
of the
company.

meet.

So mariners miftake the promis'd
guft,
And, with full fails, on thei/,W roekj

through the mighty void; and, in their
fall,J;

Were bUdly gither'd in this goodly ball.

their jouvoey blind.

And climbing trom below, their fellows

iii-fsT.pretirHemAfttrtidpIe. [from ilejiA
Peace to thy gentle (hade, and
endlefs rell
Jiup in thy senius, in thy 1 >»«

Fell

M'tlton.

by each deluding light

I'art crcepmg underground,

Le ke

Without judgment or diredlion.

Hjw feas, and earth, and air, and aitive flame.

*'"'"'' » '"ng J''"n'al night,
1?
^"Z
1 i/W
through
paths

I
1-ed

;

fen fe.

3.

inform my unacquainted feet

In the Uir,d mazes of this

from

Calmet.

.

.

Dfyde*.
How re..dy zeal for inlerell and pariy, is to
charge atheifm on thofe, who will
not. without
examining, fubmit, ind-blindly fwallow
their non-

-

r

t

'

T>

The old king, after a long debate.

By his imperious niiftrcfs hlwdli led.
Has given Cydaria to Oitellan's bed.

under ftone, which

fires

'^^"•'"' "="'
.1 ,
Ql,
3Ra.l

receive.

;

Without fight.
Implicitly; without examination.

common

flame not out; bat oU being
poured upon them,
they flame out.
d

the

my hand
my tLf.^^ that ,s brcught

1.

2.

dark; obfcure ; unfeen.
There be alio blind

Mdif^n,

Si.iNDLy. ad'v. [{ramilind.y

Not eafily difcernible ; hard to find'j

5.

.

He fl»ll receive thcU.JJmg frnm the Lord.
P/i'.
5. 1 he Hebrews, under this name, often

• .

by/ m^ie leglflature.

:

whom

Honour tny fa^^er and mnther. both
in «urd
ihd deed, that a blrjlng may come
upon thee from

a J Jacob
I
L r
And
faKl, receive my prefer
at

When lots are fliufflcd together, or a man 'bli^d'
fold cafts a dye, what rcafjii can he have
to piclun.e, tiut he Ihall draw a
white ftone rather than
a black?
<-,„,;
1 he women wiil look into the (late of tlie
nation
with their own eyes, and be no
longer led blindfold

To

!

fares,

wiiei-e he hits, nought
knows, and wherehe hurts, nought cares.
Fairf «l,c«.
Who blindfold walks upon a river's brim.
When he fljould fee, has he deferv'd to Iwim ?

;

generally with fome tendency
to
feme contempt or cenfure.

Divine favour.

take, 1 pray thee,

And

Dr,d.

wha:fo<ver

ttofe who give, and thofe who

But, as a hlmdfold bull, at random

;

is

Sometimes o/'.
''"' ^'""» ""*
^1 "E'-" milled, v,^'"n
He pulls "l
his crimes upon his pe
isle's lu-ad. D^yd.
4. Unfeen ; out of the publick view pri-

•

With blcjji,tgs and compliments both

cried,

3.

jldJlfoK

,

Whilft reafon, blent through paflion, nought
deJV

behind,

Ajult anj wile magidrate is .1
H,Ji;„g awrxrenSve as the community to. which he
belongs
a
bhffmi which i-.clud:! ah utber l/ijrr.,

underftood

ing the eyes covered.
And oft himfelf he chanc'd to hurt unwares,

io fee the people, what fphy mouths
they make;
1 o mark their fingers pointed Ltthy
back.

who believe th..t they derive from it the moft va-

Luke.

Bli'nd^'old. tttij. [from the verb.] Hav-

unfeen.

.

a.

When they had blindfolded him, they flruck

pj^

Nor are his bi,£;,:?! to his banks confin'd.
Jut free, and common, as the fea and wind.

'V.

him on the face.

£/W

an advantage ; a benefit.

WW

Decay of Pi„u

[from blind andfold-l To hinder from feeing, by blinding the eyes.

Thofe pther two, equall'd with me
in fate.
So were I equali'd with them in
renown
Thamyris, and blirj Maonide;
And TeiTfias, and Phineas, pn p'leti old.
Mi/t-,^.
2. Intelleftually dark
unable to
;

J. Any of the means of happine/s; a gift;

»

fo Bli ndfold.

by feelm delea of eyes, leceivcs advertifement
of

things through a ftjff.

an oppofition between his

Jor the^execution of the other.

'Lytul,c„.

The b/i,,d man that governs his fteps

ing,

fet

commands and decrees; making the one a

of feeing ; dark.
_

the chair, and the father layeth hi,
hand upon his
head, or her heid, and giveth the
bkffmg.
Bac:r..

Cnenn.

underftanding.

oy.

Deprived of fight ; wanting the fenfe

I.

A declaration by which happinefs is
promifed in a propheticlc and authoritativt manner.
The perfon that is called, kneeleth down before

luable i/r/.^j of fociety.

VEflraurc.

Something to millead the eye, or the

2.

BLIND, adj. [bhnb, Saxon.]

pinefs is-implored for any one.

». /.

.

Something to hinder the fight.
Hjrdly any thin_g in our converlation
is puns
and genuine ; civility cads a blind over
the dutv,
under fome cuflcmary uord;..

have, or theW /ligbteti
they have run over in their minds
all

But left hnrrti care the lover's peace deftr

Ble'ssing. n. /. [from bhfs.]
t. Benediaion ; a prayer by which
hap-

'•

from

to think af a lame horfe they

he that

When thou receivclt praik, take it indifferently,

-f.

I

My country neighbours do not find it impoffible

and return it to God, the giver of the titt, or
hlelJer
oftheaOion.
cj-^f,^^

th.t relate to .lis I.fc.

BL ND
1.

In general, to blaft ;

2.

He that

or give* a bleffing ;
makes any thing profper.

1.

!

fertility.

bleffes,

_

!

Fi

Heavenly felicity.
It is fuch an one, as, being
begun in grace,
panes into glory, ^'^j^a^/S, and immortalltv.

3.

;

!

Bli ND NETTLE.

«.

plant.

/ ifcrofularia.\* A

Bli'ndside. n.f. [from blind and/frft.]
Weaknefs; foible; weak part.
He Is too great a lover of himfelf; this is on«
:

'

of his blindjidii
the bell of men, I fear, arc not
J
without them.
^•,(,;,j

Bli'ndworm. n.f.

I

•

[c^cilia,- from blind

Cc z

and

'

;

;

BL O

B L I
tnd ivur/n.]

A fraall viper, called like-

wife a flow

worm

rife in blifters.

,

And never to my rcd-loolt'd anger be
Shakrfpcare.
The trumpet any more.
Embrace thy kne« with loathing hands,
Drydn.
Which blifler when they touch thee.
To B L I's T E R f a.
1. To raife blifters by fome hurt, as by a

tvorm, is cotninonly thought to be blind, becaufc
Gritv.
of the littlerefs of his eycj.

[blincken, Danifh.]

To wink, or twinkle with the eyes.

t.

So politick, as if one eye

bum, or rubbing.

Upon the other were a fpy ;

I

2.

the portrait of a hRtiking ideot.
SialuJftJre.

Bli'kkard. n. /. [ftom blink.']
1. One that has bad eyes.

Shairffear.:
And be you tliltc and bonny.
For that fair female troop Uiou faw'lt, that leem'd

To whom th? wily adder, blithe and glad
And the mower whets bis fcythe.

happinefs of blclTed fouls.

Dim fadnefs did not fpare

Mikr,».

Bm'thness.

n.f.

7

{irom. blithe.]

ing blithe.

Condition, circumftancc is not the thing;
king.
Poft.

34.i's8FUL. adj. [from bli/s and /«//.] Full
of joy ; happy in the highell degree.
Yet iwimming in that fea of i/ifsfu/ yyy,
Fairy ^iieen.
He nought forgot.

The t%vo faddcft Ingredients in hell, are deprivation of the blijsful vifion, and confufio« of face.
liamm'^nd.

Reaping immortal fruits of joy and love.
Uninterrupted joy, unvival'd love,
Milton.

So peaceful (halt thou end thy hViJiful days,
And rt;al thyfelf from life by (low decays. Pofr.
Firft in the fields 1 try the filvan ftrainS,
Nor blu(h to fport in Windfor's blipful plains.

Poft.

Bti'ssruLLY. adv. [from bli/sful.'] Hap-

,

it

pinefs ; fulnefs of joy.
n.

To caterwaul; to be
T>iii.

A

puftule formed by raifing the cuticle
I.
from the cutis, and filled with ferous

blood.
In this ftate (he g.illops, night by night,
O'er ladiet lips, who (trait on kifl'es dream.

Which oft the angry Mab with bliftin plagues,
Becaufc their breaths with fwccuneau tainted arc.
Shaktjftart.

I found a great blifltr drawn by the garlick, but
liad it cut, which run a good deal of water, but
*lled again by neit .night.

!

:

has a/, an intenfive particle.

His rude e'itays
Encourage him, and blsat him b/> with praife,
That he may get more bulk before he dies. Dryd.
The ftrutting petticoat fmooths all di.linQions,
I cannot but
levels the mother with the daughter.

7imt>lt.

our

To Block, -v. a. \bloquer, Fr.]
1
To (hut up to ihclofe, fo as to hinder
;

«;grefs ; to obllrudl.
ihe ftatei about them (honid neither by encreafc of dominii>n, nor by blocking of trade, hava
Clarcrdon.
it in their power to 'mrt or annoy.

^

be troubled- to fee fo many wcll-(haped innocent
virgins bkatid uf, and waddling up and down like
bij:-bellicd women.

They bkck the cafile kept by Bertram;
But now they cry, down with the palace, fire it.

Addifott.

To Bloat. i/. a. To grow turgid.

Drydem

If a p'^rfon of a firm conditution begins Ko bloat,

from being warm grows cold, his fibres grow weak.

2.

^'^r!iud>r:ct.

"

The bloat king.

[(rota, bloat.]

Tur-

LaiBtude, lazincLs,

htoatediit.!,

and fcorbuticil

fpots, arc fymptonis of weak fibres.

yirbuthnat.

Blo'bber. n.f. [from blob.]

A word

from infefting the
Clarendon.

The abbot raifcs an army, apd llvks tif the town

ShakefiMtri < Hmkt.

Blo'atedness. ti.f.

It has often. :</, to note claufure.
Recommend it to the governor of Abingdon, to

fend fome troops to block it up,
great ro.id.

Bloat, adj. Swelled with inten»perance

gidnefs ; fwelling ; tumour.

BLl'STER. n.f. [bluyjier, Dutch.]

in

Decy of Piety.

ftupidity.
The country is a dcfert, where the good
Oain'd inhabits not; born's not underftood ;
There men Ircomc bealts, and prone to all evils;
Donne.
In cities, blocks,
What tonguelcfs blocks were they, would they not
Shahjfeare's Richard IIU
fpeak ?

turgid.

luftful.

block enough

A fea term for a pully.
blockhead a fellow remarkable fbf
A
9.

PBili/^s.

[probably from blo-tv.]
fwell, or make turgid vvith wind
a.

'V.

pily.

Bli'ssfulness. »./. {from bli/sful.'] Hap-

is

8.

:

Arc widow'd.

To

from it, that no crime

way to ftop our flight ?

Frofty blafts deface
The blithfme year trees of their (hrivell'd fruits

To- BLoAT.

; a ftop.
Can he ever dream, that the fuftering for righ.
teoufiiefs fake is our felicity, when he 'lees us rtin

j

cheerful.

,BliJi is the fame in fubjeO or in

An obftruftion

fo

The quality of be-

Bli'thsomen'ess. j

Bli'th&ome. adj. [from blitke.] Gay;

Felicity in general.

-v.

7.

blithe manner.

That time celeftial vifages; yet, mix'd
Miltor.
With pity, violated not their hliji.
With me
All my redcem'd may d«;»:i1, in joy and h/'ft. Milt.

To Bli'ssom.

Treafon's true bed, andyielder-up of breath. Shak^
At the inftant of his death, having a long beard,
after his head was upon the block, he gently dre\v
his beard afide, and faid, this hath not otFnded
Bacon,
the king.
I'll drag him thence,"
Drjdev,
Even from the holy altar to the block.

;

Should he return, that troop fo blithe and bold,
Precipitant in fear, would wing their flight. Prfc.
Bli'thlv. ad--j. [from blilbe.] In a

Shakefftart.

headed.
Some guard thefe traitors to the block of death,

Enaprefsl^e way is ready, and not long. Milton.
And the milkmaid fingeth hlithe.

:

with the next Hock.

The wood on which criminals are be-

6.

Milicn.

Yet empty of all good.

1. The higheft degree of happinefs ; blefgenerally ufed of the
fednefs ; felicity

Jn bnjiful folitude.

He wears his faith but as the fafhion of his hat;
it ever changes

Of goddetfe, fo blithe, fo fmooth, fo gay;

to rejoice.]

us from mifery
the way ; the way tjjat leadclh
'
Hwikir.

The piece of wood on which hats are
formed.
Some old writers ufe block for
the hat itfelf.

5.

Then figh not fo, but let them go.

lUkcivW.

into blifi.

image is cleft out of the trunk of f'vne tree, yet,
after the (kill of artificers to fet forth luch a divine
bkek, it cannot one moment fecure itfelf from
Utillingjlect*
being eaten by worms.

Hooker.

approbation.

BLISS, n. f. [bhj-j-e. Sax. from bh^apan,

A mighty Saviour hath wltnelTcd of himfelf, I

:

When, by the help of wedges and beetles, an

We have always one eye (ixed upon the countenance of our enemies ; and, according to the
tliihe or heavy afpcft thereof, our other eye (heweth fome other fuitable token either of diflike or

!

:

A rude piece of matter in contempt.

4.

Wifman.
BLITHE, adj. [bh«e, Saxon.] Gay; airy;
merry ; joyous; fprightly; mirthful.

In fomc parts wc fee many glorious and'eminent
ftars, in others few of any remarkable grcatnefs,
and in fome none hMUinkards, and obfcurc ones.

2,

To raife blifters with a medical intenhe died howling.

Something twinkling.

•iti

Shakejftarc.

I klijicrtd. the legs and thighs ; but was too late :

eyne.
Sbakeff. MtJjummer Night's Driam.
His figure fuch as might his foul proclaim
One eye vns^hlinkifg, and one leg was laxnc. Pojit.

2.

Small caufes ate fufficicnt to make a man unwhen great ones are not in the way for
want of a block, he will (tumble at a (traw. Sttiifl.
eafy,

tion.

Sweet mi lovely wall.

Shew me thy chink, to hiink through with mine

A maiTy body.

3.

Harh bliftti'J licr report.
'

Homer's apotheafis conlKts of » groupe of figures,
cut in the fara^ filDek of mirblc, and riling one
uiddijoiim
above another.

Who fallirtg in the flaws of her own yDuth,

To fee obfcurely.
What s here

A heavy piece of timber, rather thick
than long.
2. A roafs of matter.
1

Look, here comes one, a gentlewoman of mine.

That, to trepan the one to think

The other blind, both ftrove to */;»*. JIuJih.
2.

His perfon deformed to"the higheft degree ; flatL'Kftrair^t,
nofcd, and blobbtrliffcd.

.

.

Grew.

mulTcl.

BLOCK, n.f. [block, HyAA; bloc. ¥1']

If I prove honeymouth, let my tongue blifter.

Stehffeare.
Come not near our fairy queen.
The gre»ter (low worm, called alfo the iliml-

Having IWelled
or thick lips,

a<^'.

A blobberliffed (bell, feemcth to be a kind of

Bann.
To Bli'«te». 1/. «. [from the noun.] To
hhftrr.

Thoniy lied^thogs, be not fe<rn ;
Newts and t/itiJtuirm: do no wrong;

J

Blo'bberlipped. 1

of a film or &in from the otlier parts.
Upon the leaves there rifctlr a tumour like a

venQmous.
You fpottcd fnakcs, with double tongur,

To BLINK. V. n.

B L O

Any fwelling made by the feparation Blo'blipped.

2.

believed not to be

;

. .

on the (ide that faces his dominions.

Mdifoa.

BLOCK-HousE.n.yl [from block a.ndbcu/e.']
A fortrels built to obfti uft or block up
a pafs, commonly to defend a harbour.
His entrance

is

guarded with blcck-boujis, and

thjt on Ae town's fide fortified with ordnance.

ufed in fome counties for a bubble.
1 here fwimmcth alfo in the fea a round (limy

Cariw.

fubftance, called a blabber, reputed noifome to the
Carctv.
fi(h.

Rochelter water reacheth far within the land,
and is under the protcdtion of fome blockhoufes.
Raleigh.

p «. / [ from blob, or blabber,
and ///>.] A thick lip.

Block tin. «. / [from block and /;>.]

B L o' B B E R L

I

.

So the tradefmen call that which isjjure

They make a wit of tiieir infipid friend,
HUbhbberlifi and bectlcbrows commend. Drydeti.

or unmixed, and yet unwrought.
I

Soyli,

Blocka'd£.

'

;

.

;

\itom. block. ^

n. f.

A fiege

:

A crow lay battering upon a mufcle, and could Blo'odflower. n.f. \_ha:ixanthus, Lat.]

Round the go(i<icfs roll

unto thee,
but my Vatherwhich is In heaven. Maitb. xvi. 17.

Temper of mind

1 1

To Ihut up by obftruiSOon.
Pofe.

I

13.

fcent, and feizes with great fiercencfs.
Hear this, hear tliii, thou tribune of Lhe people
Thou zealous, pubRck blocdheanJ, hear and melt

Genefis, xhx. 11.

A hi:ci>head rubs his thoughrlefs fkull.

1.

And thanks his ftars he was not born a fool. Pvft.
Bi.o'cKHEADED. atij. [ffom blockhead.'^

Where are thefe rav'niog i/W;jM/B(/j,thatpurlue
In a full cry, gaping to fwallow me ?

To ftain with blood.

Soutb^rne's Inn. Adult.

Then all approach the flain with vaft furprife.

A bhodhound will follow the track of the perfon

And, fcarcc fecure, reach out their f;>ears afar,

he purfues, and all hounds the particular game they
Arbuthnct on Aliments.
have in chace.
And though tiie villain 'fcjpe a while, he le. Is
Slo\v vengeance, like a bloodhound, at his heels.

And blood their points, to prove their partnerlhip

.

Drydtn'i FahUi.
He was bluotUJ up to his elbows- by a couple ot
Moors, whom he butchered with his own imperial
hinds.
jiddi[cn>
in war.

Says a bhckkcaded boy, thefe are vilUinmis creaL'Eflrange.

tures.

Stupid;

!

Drydiiu

To Blood, v. a. [from tlie noun.]

Hu'd^rgs.

[from blood and

n. f.

A hound that follows by ths

hound.]

The juice of any thing.

in the blood of g; apes.

We iJly fit like ftupid Hickkeadt,

i!oci.'\

Ifairy Sjtemt

Blo'odhound.

He wafhf^fchis garments in wine, and his c'othcs

wedged up in a iUikbcm. Shuk.

Di-o'cKisH. aJj. [from

Than with bkodguiltimfs to heap oftVnce,
And mortal vengeance join to crime abhorr'd f

Baton.

to be outrag*-d.

Your wit will not fo foon ont as another man's

Stupid ; dull.

And were there rightful caufe of dificrence,
Yet were't nof better, Si\i it to accord.

fuVy, as the ambaffadors were not, without peril,

a dolt ; a man without

parts.

Murder ; the crime of fhedding

blood.

ftate of the paflions.

Hot fpark ; man of fire.
The news put dlveis young blocdt into fuch a

z.

Br,o'cKH«AD. n.f. [from block indheatf.]

Qui hands committed to our pockets.

;

it

Will you, great lir, that glory blor,
In cold blood, which you gain'd in hot ? Hvdibras.

Huge bales of BHtirti cloth bkciatlexix door,

it is llronjiy

Bi.ooDGui'tTiNESs.w./. [from ilcodand
guilty-]

Flsih and blotd hath not revealed

To Blocka'de. or. a. [from the noun.]

will ;

L'EJirangt,

The carnal part of man.

10.

Pofe.

A hundred oxen at your levee roar.

A plant.

break the (Iieli to Some at the

blood,

fifli.

Broad hats and hoods, aw-" caps, a fable fnoai
Thick, and more thick, the black WwiaA extends.

;

lu

not, for

Matter.

the blockade ot Olivenxa.

ind thick, and had not in them an^' blood-vefet,
that we were able to difcovcr. Addijon's ^pe^otor.

For bksif. Though his blood or life
was at ftake a low phrafe.

9.

Carried on by fhutting up the place.
Tte enemy w .u neccflitated wholly to abandon

A iiupid fellow

B L O

B L O

B L O
Iiocka'dr.

!

Sivift,

.

dull.

Make a Intt'ry,
And, by decree, let black'ip Ajax draw
Sbakifptai'e.
The fort to fight with HcSor.
Bto'cKisHLY. adv. [from blockijh.'] In
3 ftupid manner.
Blo'ckishness. n.f. [ from blockifi-l Stu-

forge in the
iron miJls, through' which the metal
paflis, after it has been firft melted from
the mine.
Di3.

Blo'n k et. n.f.

firft

[I fdppofe for blanket.']

Our bhjiktt livery *s been all too fad
With picafance.

To heat

;

'Ot drenched, or, as it were, blooded

by the affecBacon I j^ji^pbibegms.

tions.

kindred.

A« many and as well born ^/csi/> ««):hofe
Stand in his face, to contradift his claim. Shakefp.
O what an happinrfs is it to find
friend of our own blocdy a brother kind
Wallrr,
According to the common law of England, in
itdminiftrations, the whole hl»d is preferred to the
I-alfi/W.
Afiffi.
!

A

!

Defcent ; lineage^
Epithets of fljttery, deftrwd by few of them ;
and not running in a ^/oW, like the perpetual gentienefi <J the Ormond family.

Drydip.

They wiH'al'-, ft
Give us a prince o" th' blood, a fon of Priam,
In rh.^n^e of him.
Shjkffpcart,
0. Birth ; high extradion.
;

blo'id.

Sbtikiffeeri.

The voice of thy brother's blood cricth unto me
from the ground*
8.

ftate of being bloody.
It will mahifcft itfelf by its bloodinefs ; yet fometimes the fcuU is fo thin as not to admit of any.
i^barp's Surgctyt

much ^/93(/ai one againll another. Bacon's Hen. Vli.

good piece of bread firft to be eaten, will gain
time to warm the beer blood-hot, which then he
may drink fafely.
Locke.

To Blood-let. f n. [from bloodaxiA let.]
To bleed ; to open a vein medicinally.

1.

Dryden's jEneiJt

But beauty, with a bhcdlefs conqueft, finds

Blo'odshed. n.f.

Full many mifchiefs follow cruel wrath,;

Abhorred hhcdfiied, and tumultuous (Irifc,
Unmanly murder, and unthrifty fcath. Fairy
All murders pal} do ftand excus'd in tliis j
And this h folc, and fo unmatchable.
Shall prove a deadly bloodjbed but a jeft^

Shakejpeare's King yohsi*

A man, under the tranfports of a vehement

in aneurifms, proceedeth from

padcs a different judgment upon murder
and bloodf)cd, from what he docs when his revenge

rage,

the ignorance of the bkcd-lctter, who, not confidering the errniir committed in letting bl .3d, binds
up the arm carelefsly.
ff^Ifeman.

blood d^nd /lone.]

[hiematites ;

from

The name of a Hone.

which, worn, is thought to be good for them that
bleed at the nofe ; which, no doubt, is bjk aftriction, and cooling of the fpirits.
Bacon.
The bhzJ-Jlcne is green, fptitted with a bright
blood red.
Ifoodivard o» Fojjils.

Genejit, iv. 10.

thirft.] Defirous to ihed blood.
And hish advancing his bhud ihirfy blade.
Struck one of thofe deformed heads. Fairy ifuun.
The image of God the blo^d-thirflj have not
for God is charity and mercy itfelf. Raleigh's
J}.

U

Life.

When wicked men have (lain a righteous pei^bn

Blood-vessel, n.f. [[rom blood and 'vcf-

A veflel appropriated by nature

in his own boufe, upon his bed, Ihall I not there-

fel.]

fore now require bis blotd at your hand }

to the conveyance of the blood.

!tiiamiiil, It. II.

The Ikins of chu f'jrchead wcxe extiemcl/ cough

^

Exampled by this heinous fpc^acle.

phlebotomill ; one that takes away blood
medically.

n. f.

ff-'al/er.

[frora blood zndjhed.']

The crime of b{ood, or murder.

I.

Blood-letter, n.f. [from blood-let.] A

Blood-stone,

Without flauglvep.
War brings ruin where it (hould amend ;

A welcome fov'reignty in rudeft minds,

by experiment* in blocd-itiiirg.
^rbutbnot on Aliments.

This miichlcf,

Without blood ; dead.
He cheer'd my forrows, ajid, for fums of gold,
TheJllood/ej's carcafc of my Heflor fold.

2.

The chyle is no perfeSly allin^^ilated into blood,
by its circulation through the lungs, as is known

lama gfntieman of blocd and breeding. Siak.
Blood-thirsty, adj. [from blood and
violent death.
7. Murder
have blaod i they fay, blood will have

The

Blo'odiness. n.f. [from bloody.]

is

over.

South.

Slaughter; wafteoflife.
So by him Caefar got the vift; ry,
Through great bloodjhed, and many a fad afTay.

Z.

Tlicre is a ftone, v/hich they call the blood-JI'ine,

5. Blood royal ; royal lineage.

it will

the pu-fuivant.

Blood-boltered. ai/J. [from blood and Blo'odless. adj. [{rom blood.]

.

Hbaktj'ftan.
;

cruelly.

Shakejf fare's Richard III.
This day the poet, bloodily iiiclin'd.
Has made me die, full fore againft niy mind. Dryd,

A

We'll n^ more meet, no more fee one another:
But yet thou art my rtedi, oiy btnodt my daughter.

I told

With

blood.]

To-day at Pomfret bloodily were butcher'd.

By this means, matters grew more exafperate ;
the auxiliary forces of French and Englilh were

The red liquor that circulates in the

Child ; progeny.

[from

As too triumphing, how mine enemies

to exafperate.

Macbeth.

Family

V

To blood, is fometimes to let blood me-

Blood-hpt. adj. [from blood and hot.]
Hot in the fame degree with blood.

But flcfti. With the life thereof, which is the
bhcJ thereof, (hall you not eat.
Gtntfii.

4.

4.

ad<v.

difpofition to (bed blood ;

dically.

Sfcrftr.

bodies of animah.

3.

3.

Blood fprinlded.
The b'iCQd-bolter'd Banquo fmiles upon me.

BLOOD. /»./. [blob, Sa.xon.]

Blo'odily.

SpCTtfzr*i Sor.mts.

bolter.]

For tluike fame feafon, when all is yclad

i.

to enure to blood, as a hound.
Fairer tlian faireft, let none ever fay.
That ye were blooded in a yielded prey.
;

When the faculties intclle(^ual are in vigour,

pidity ; duUnefs.

Bt-o'Mary. n. /. The

I.

To enter

2.

,

Fairy SJucen,

Of wars and bloodjhed, and of dire events,
I could

with greater ccitainty forctel.
Dryden's Tyrannic Love,

Blo'odshedder.

n.f. [^(lom bloodjhed.]

Murderer.
He that taketh away his neighbour's living, <\s.y.
etli

him; and he that defraudeth the labourer of

his hire, is » bkodjixdderr

Blo'odshot.

Ecclus. xxxiv. zz,

[from ^/oo.a' and
Bloodsho'tten. 3 Jhot.] I^illed with
blood burfting from its proper veflels.
And that thewinds their bellowing throats would
)«<?)'•

try,

Wuea rcdd'ojng clouds reflcCl hit bUodfioi eye.
Garth*

.

;

.

Bto'oDstrcKER.
/ucL]

budded, and brought forth buds, and i/oo«a/blofHumbert, xvii. 8.
foms, and yielded almond,).
It is a common experience, that if you do not
pull nfF fonie blofl'oms the firrt time a tree bitomeih,
it will bloffom itfelf to death. Bacon' 1 I^tit. Ui/ltry

[from ilccJ and

n. /.

A leech ; a fly ; any thing that fucks
blood.
2. A cruel man ; a murderer.

a.

God keep the prino' Irom til the pack of you

1,

Stained with blood.

2.

Cruel; murderous:

Pofe-i Ef.Jiks.

O greatly blefs'd with every blooming grace

"[

applied either to

Fope't Oiyjfey.

Blo'omv.

adj. [from bloom.]
blooms ; flbwery.

O nightingale

Sba\ffp> King Lear.
,

I grant him hhciy.

Shakefp, Machah.

Tliou hUcdit-r villain.

Than terms can give thee out.

Shakefp, Machclh.

why gnaw you fo your nether lip ?

Departing Ipring could 'only ftay to flicd

ing ; blaft :

Thclc are pj'tcnts : but yet I hnpr, 1 hope,
'Jhey do njt point on me.
Sbakcfpiare^ s Othello.

ufed.

j

ajid th' other's faith approved

though he.e thou fee him die,
Rolling in dull and gore.
Miltor'i Paradijr Lojl.
The i/Wif^ vengeance whidi (he could purfuc,
Would be a trifle to my lofs of you.
l.ofe no reward ;

Make known;

Cold news for me

Merrily, merrily, fhall I live now.

Cold, by retardin.; the motion of the Mo.ld, and

Shakcjp. Tcmfcji.

j^rhutbnot en Air.

Bloody-min D£D. adj. [from bloody and

f.

[blum,

Germ.

To Blo'ssom. 'V. n. [from the noun.]
:

;

iUcm,

Although the fig-tree Ihall
fliall

A blofibnij the flower which precedes

Habb. iii. 17.
bhffiming time, often
occ'afions the dropping oA'of t^e blulfoms, for warn

Milton.

A medlar tree w.t. planted by ;-

1.

A moft poor mail, made tame to fortune's blows,'
Who, by tlie art of known and feeling forrows, <

Am pregnant to good pity.

'

;

That gives not half fo great a blcio to th' ear.
As will a cheftnut. Siakefp. Taming cf the Sbre'Utt
Words of great contempt commonly finding a
return of eqjal fcorn, blo-wt were i^ftened upon the

to make writing invifi-

mnti pragjnatical of the crew.
3.

To blot out me, and put his ov.'n fon in.

4.

blotting out expreffions.

To efface

>

:

Dryden.
bleivs are nfed for

Be moft abated captives to fome nation
That won you without blonvs.
Sba^efpeare.
Unarni'd if I fliould go,

What '• pe of mercy from this dreadful foe,
But woman-tike to fall, and fall witliout a blew t

Swift.

to erafe.
O B,.Mtrim, oh no more my foe, but trother
One aft like this btois out thoufand crimes. Dryd.

An aft of hoftl^ity
combat or war.

Pope.
The laft and greateft art, the art to i/jf.
A manof the moft undcrftandingwill find it immake the beft ufe of it, while he writes
pofliblc

2.

Clarendon.

The fatal ftroke ; the ftroke of death.
Alfuiige your thirll of blood, and (Irike the blow.

t >

and

Sbakeff. King Ltar.

A woman's tongue,

in conrtrajnt, perpetually foftcning, correiting, oc

grapes ngwly gathered.
A piece of iron
4. [In the iron works.]
wrought into a mafs, two feet fquare.
7'o Bloom, -v. n. [from the noun.]
i. To bring or yield blolToms.
The rod of Aai^n for the houfc of Levi was

9

A ftroke.

J.

.^hakefp. Henry \l.
Ev'n copious^Dryden wanted, or forgot.

Dryden^t AiircngXibe.

upon plums

The aft of ftriking.

I.

You tlut arc king

My youth in t/oirx, your age in its decay.
colour

BLOW, n.f \bltnve, Dutch.]

Have caus'd him, by new a£l of parliament,

;

blue

To obliterate

To fmoke, or dr^ by

the fraoke ; as Matid herrings, or red
herrings.

Mortimer.

ble by covering it with ink.

The (late of immaturity the ftate of
any thing improving, and ripening to
higher perfedUoa.
Were 1 no ([ueen, did you my beauty weigh,

The

•

To BlOte, 'V. a.

To BLOT. 'V. a. [from bloitir, Fr. to hide.]

•

3.

-

at

of fap.

Hafte to yonder woodbine bow'rs ;
The turf with rural dainties (hall be crownM,
While opening h/oomt ditTufe their fwccts Ground.
2.

Spots and blotches, tf fevcral colour* ahd figures,
Araggling over the body ; fome are red, oth rs yel-low, or black.
Hur'vey.

fruit b: in the vines, yet will I rejo'rtie in the

The want of rain,

How nature pa'mts hjr colours, hiw the bee
The fpreailmg bratichcs made a t,->odly (Tiow,
And full of opening ble-jmr wa« ev'ry bough. Dryd.

Dryden s Dedication to JEneiA,
A' fpot or'

neither

Lord.

the fr'alt
Siti oa Iter iJMin, extr.ifting i.^id fweet.

ni>t' b!ff/ir.,

Pop*.

;

5.

A fudden calamity;

an

unexpefted

!

evil.

.1

Thefe fimplc

People is broken with a grievous blciv,

ideas, offered to the min^l, the

underllanding can no more tefufe, nor alter, nor
blot out, than a mirrour can refufe, alter, or obliterate, the images which the objeds produce.

Lake.

-

Blotch', n.f. [from- ^/o/.]
puftule upon the Ikin.

put forth bloflxims.

Dutch.]
1.

He is too great a mafter of his art, to make a
which may fo eafiiy be hit.

To

This is the I'tate of man to-day he puts forth
The tender leaves of hope to-morrow bhJI'ims,
And bears Iiis bluihing honours thick upoii him.
Shakcjp. Henry VIH.

Temple.-

[At backgammon.] When a Angle
man lies open to be taken'up ; whence,
to hit a blot
blot

tree, d.ith make the fruit fairer.

Macon s Nat. Ilijt.
To his green ycats your cenfuie yju would fuit.
Not blaft the bliffhm, but er.peft thi; fruit. Dryden.

is

turn.

4.

The pulling off many of the blojjims of a (ruii

painhin the bowels, losfeiiels, hkody Jiuxa.

lie

A

:

Under the blojjiim that hangs on the bough.

fr.pprclling perfpiration, producesgiddinefs, fleepi-

n.

a foul blot in a man ; yet it is conti£ceL xx. 24* difappointed hope, a blot of iionour, a ftrain'
of confcience, an unfortunate love, wiU ferve the

And caterpillars eat my leaves away. Sbak.HenAV,

a difcafe in whic"h the excrements are
mixed witii blood.

BLOOM,

A

nually in the mouth of the untauglit.

Tlius are my blojfomi blafted in the bud.

;

OT.'W.] Cruel ; inclined to bloodihed.
1 think you'll make me mad : truth has been
at my tongue's end this li*ilf hour, and I have
n t the power to bring it out, for fear of this
hh'fdy m:rijed colonel.
Drydcn^s Spuni/h Friar.

murdrr, or foulncfs,
That hath depriv'd me. Sbahfpeare't King,Lear.

We

Po/x-'s ffindfir Fore/I.

jicfs,

A
A

it is nO'Vieious blot,

flower that grows on any plant, previous to the feed or fruit.
generally
call thole flowers bloffoms, which are
not much regarded in themfelves, but
as a token of fome following produdlion^

P.oud Nimrod firft the ikody chace legan,
bi:^ prey was man.

/ The dyfentery

Art of blowan expreffive word, but not

Let flames on your unlucky papers prey;

Your wars, your loves, your praifes, be forgot.
And make of all an univerfal blot. Dryd. JuvenaU
2.
blur ; a fpot upon paper.
fpot in reputation ; a ftain ; a dif3.
grace ; a reproach.

Out ruflit, with an unmeafur'd roar,

A mighty hunter, and

».

An obiiteFaticn of fomsthing written.

Thofe two winds, tumbling clouds in heaps j ulhers
to cither's blore.
Chapman s Iliad.
BLO'SSOM. n.f. [bloj-me. Sax.] The

Drydcni Indian Emperor,

BuoODY-FLU.ic.

Covileym-

Blot. n.f. [from the verb.]
1.

Blore. a./, [from ^/ijxw.]

Some bloody paflion ftiakes your very frame ;

The kkidy faft

Whiltt fooliih-men beat founding brafs in vain.

!

Her bk^tny beauti^'a on the genial bed,
But left the manly fumm'-r in her ftead. Dryden.
H^ar how the birds, on ev'ry bloomy fpray.
With joyous mufick wake the dawning day. Pofe.

Luxurious, avaricious, falfe, d^'ccitfut.

-

Bht not thy innocence with guiltlefs blood. Rrmtr
To darken*
He lung how earth Ihn the moon's gilded «-ane»i.-

5.

of

Full

that on yon bkomy fpray
Wjrblcftat tvc,when all the woods are ftill. Milton.

f alfe of heart, light uf car, hliody of hnnd.

WU! be avengM

!

Wiih eijuai fteps the paths of glory trare.

By continusi martial exercifes, without blond,
Bie made them pcrfeil in that hlxdy art.
Sidney,

Alas

It blcti thy beauty, as froft bites the meads.
Confounds thy fame. Sbak. Tatning oflbtSbrtWt
My guilt thy growing virtues did defame ;
My blackncfs htottid thy unWemilh'd name.
Drydeti's JEnnd,
For mercy's fake reftrain thy hand,

ment.
Beauty, frail flow'r, that every feafon fears,
B!xmi in tby colours for a thoufand years.

men or fafts.

!'

That ever bkited piper. Sbak. Alrrcbant nffexUlt
To difgrace ; to disfigure.
Unknit that thr^at'ning unkind brow;

4.

To be in a ftate of youth and improve-

A plant.

Bloo'dwort. n.f.

Here are a few of the unpleafant'ft words

Hooter.

as evil.

3.

as a compenfation for blooJ.

Ulo'ody. ajj. [from blood.

jljcbamt'

letter.

when the

ftrength of virtuous, devout, or charitable affeflion
bh.mtd them, no man couid juftly have condemned

.i

A fine anciently paid

blur.
Heads overfull of matter, be like pens overfull
of ink, which will fooner blot, than make any fair

O fweet Portia

Rites and cuftoms, now fuperftitious,

Sbahff. Rictardm.
The nobility cried out upon him, that he was
Ifo^ilfuckeTy a murderer, and a parricide. Hayward,

To make black fpots on a paper j toi

3.

To produce, a« bloffoms.

z.

A kuoc you are of drained blnoJfuiLri,
Bio'oDwiT. n.f.

B L O

B L O

B L O

-

!

yertm.

To all but thee in fits he fccm'd to go.
6.

And 'twas my miniftry to deal the blvio. Parnet.
A fingle aflion ; a fudden event.
Evciy year they gain a viftorv, and a town j hut
if

-

;

B L O

B L O

If they are once defeated, they lofe a province at a
*''""•

DryJtr.

Spherical

'Chapmen' t Iliad.

1 heir loud upiittcd

[blapan. Sax.]

To make a current of air.
At his fight the mountains are (haken, apd at

Pofc'i St. CtcWa.

Each aking nerre refufe the lance to throw.

Witli that fame weak wind which
„.

It

camps that lie

To blow o-ver.

11.

Storms, though they i/w «,»• divers

times, yet
fl„„,., gj'

Gran^,i!l,.

re-

On the next day, fome of the enemy'a maga-

imes blnv up ; and it is thought they were
deftroyed on purpofc by fjme of their men.
Tatln.

To Blow. -v. a.

To drive by the force of the wind:
with a particle to fix the meaning.
Though yon untie the winds.
Though bUded corn be lodgd, and trees
ilmn

dvwn.

Though caftles topple on their warden heads.
Macbith.

•

And let thy eyes (hine forth in their full lurtre.

Dtnham.

,
ihefe
primitive heirs of the chriftian church
could not fo eafily bine »/the
doarine of paflive
obedience.
c
rr\.

.

To inflame with wind.

To fwell

;

Drydcn.

.

loblo-w up.
To burft with gunpowder ; to raife into the air.
The captains hoping, by a mine, to gain

the coals.
JJaiah.

Jib

to puff into fize.

No bJrtvn ambition doth our arms incite.

But love, dear love, and our ag'd father's

right.

Kini Ltar.

Rn-joand JuTll,

thief came to a buy that wjs l>lubbtr,n^
by
the fide of a Well, and alkid what he cried
foV.

L^Efianpe,
c
^>
Soon
as Glumdalclitcli mifs'd her pkafing
caie
She wept, (he blubber d, and ihe tore her hair.

.,,.r

hcrfr'f.

Sltihijp.

A

10 move by a^atui.
When tlie mind finds herfelf very much inflamed

13.

To Blu'bber. -v. a.
with weeping.

To fwell the cheeks

the

1-air ftreains leprcfent unto
me
face ; let tears piocure your (tay.

city, approached with foldiers
rearfy to enter u -on
4/»«;,^ «/) of the mine. Knolla; Hift.
of the Turk,.
lb«ir chitf blown up in air, not waves

Blew me into abhorring.
1$.

Sbakifpian.

To bloiv upon. To make ftale.
am wonderfully pleafed, when I meet with

any paflige in an old Greek or Latin
author, tliat
IS not blyivn upon, and
which I have never met
with in any quotation.

He will whifpcr

MJifon.

an

intrigue

blown upon by, common fame.

that

is

not yet
jiJJifir.

To Blow. a-. ;,. [blopan, Saxon.]
bloom; to bloflbm.

To

Sidney.

Fairy Snecn.
~. J
Tir d With the fearch, not finding what (he
,

f

.

,

ilcks.

know not bow this fenfe belongs to the
Lwould no more endure
This wooden llavcry, than 1 wojid fuff-r
The fleft.fly blo^iv my mouth.
Sbaiejptari.
Rather at Nilus' mud
Lay me ftark naked, and let water-flies

bluhhaei

With rufllcd raiment, and fair /./i/Mn-'i face.
As her Butragcous foe \\SA left her late.

rock
ty-.oJward.

To infeft with the eggs of flies,

14.

my

1 he wild wood gods, arrived in the place,
There find the viigin doleful, defilate,

Towhich hisprideprefum'dtogivethclaw.
DrvJ
Not tar from the faid well, thwmg up
a
he formerly obfcrved fome of thefi.

I

have created the fmith that blcvttb

£
M
AA hre
not blo^vn (hall confume him.

3.

Even fo lies flie
Blubbering and weeping, weeping and blukb-ymg.

With cruel bjowa (he pounds her blubber'd cheeks..

word.

c
J
L
I.
tut
daughter, bloio a-jiay thofe mifts and
clouds.

I

cheeks.

6ght,

eipir'd,

I.

«.

To Blu'bber. 'V. n. [from the noun.] To
weep in fucii a manner as co fwell tJie

that

a„i^„

To blaz-j up. To fly into the air by
the
force of gunpowder.

[See Blob.] The part
of a whale that contains the oil.

with devotion, (he is too much
inclined to think
It IS blown up with
fomething divine within

But thofe clouds biiing now happily bk-wn iitr
and our fun clearly ihining out again, I have
covered the relapfr.

.

To blo^ up.
kinaie.
His prcfcnce foon bliwt up th' unkindly
rr-

II.

An end of hi. pain.

high coloured.

BLU'BBER. «./

And his loud gunt fpeak tJiick Uke angry men.

When the ftorm is ilo^n over.
How blcft is the fwain.

Who begins to difcover

A

Blowzy, ajj. [from <J/<wvz«r.] Sun burnt;

To inflate with pride.

~
To

Donnr

Bloom, o^

bloflora.
At , .ition and covetoufnefs bel:ig but green,
anj
newlj grown up, the feeds and crtects
were as yet
butpj:ential, and in the hkwih and buJ.
Rak':gh,
Blowze. ». /;
ruddy fat-faced wench.

up.

not think he had received good
mcafure from the
king.
D
Baion.
cTti
.

To pafs away without

'

Bi.owTH. »./ [from^/Kv.j

Si.iktjp.

BUon HP with the conceit of his merit, he did

Numbrrs.

effed.

may fall at laft.

.Shortly boys {hall not oiay

At rpancount(%or bkwpoint, but fliall play
Toll to fome courtie.'.

bt^vn up, but fomewhat Icfs yet
defcends more
;
with le(V. refiftance.
Crnv.

10. Toblo-viup.

P-pr

hnps like pujhpm.

eaiiiy, becaufe

ill

on the eart parts (hall go forward.

And arm, employ 'd on birds and beafts alone.

An empty bladder gravitates no more than when

MHicn.

Sidney,

.

while cheerful horns ar»

Blowpoint. n.f. A child's play, pcf-

rife,

the blad-

was my breath that blr:u this temped

„
fleep,

bUivn,

blown up with a quill.

Upon your ftubborn ufage ot the pope.

the

Ti
The ^trumpets

Sbakcjptau.

Before we had exhaufted the receiier,

Milton.

To found, or play mufically by wind.
The priefts Ih blim with the crumpet. Jlaa.
J
When ye bimv an alarm, then the

of war.

enkindled it.
Shake/pear c.

bladder.

Qa,^^^,

'The pnrficifle faj/i.-ve of bloti:

fpjrks of viitue, which natu e had
kindled in them, were fo ilown to give
forth thefr
uitermoll heat, that juiHy it may
beaffirnicd, they
inriamed the aft'cdions of all that knew
thnn.

wind or

To raife or fwell ?r;th

up.

der appeared as fuU as \{

There let the prating organ hlnu

6.

All

A plague of fighing and grief! it blows a man
«/. like a

To found with being blown.'

To the full-voic'd quire below.

Blown.

breath.

Nor with left dread tht loud
Ethereal trumpet from on high 'gan Ua-w,

8.

To b/cw

9.

Says the fatyr, if you have gotten a trick
of
ilKumg hot and cold out of the fame mouth, I've
c'eri djne with )c.
L'EJIra„gt.

5.

,

months extreme and

mcreafing labour.

,,
Moon,
Oip behind fome cloud, fome temped
,

la.

thtf fame to the biowiRg-houfe,
together
witli the blowers' two or thiee

And i/ow cut all tJie ftars that light the Ikies.

To breathe.

4.

7.

To b/onv out. To extinguifh by

Your breath firft kindled the dead coal

ihakefftart.

And each fpcnt courfer at the chariot blno. Pipe.

Add his care and coft in buying wood, and
fetching

And brought in matter that Ihould feed this
tin;
And now -tis tar too huge to be b/otvn
out

to pufF; to be breathlefs.
;
Here 'i Mrs. Page at the door, fweating and

Gay.

tin.

the breath.

To pant

ilnvi^g, and looking wildly.

Siah/p.

bhmn.

8.

.

For thee Idumj's fpicy forefts hLw,

So much efteem'd, fo well bdov'd,
as he :
So gentle of condition was he known.
That through the court his courtefy was

This word is ufed fometimes imperfoa-

,

And feeds of gold in Ophir's mountains glow. Pope.
Blower.;/./, \_hom blo-.v .] A melter of

But never was there man, of his degree.

moon is in decreafe.
Bacuni Natural Hiftory.
By the fragrant winds that hUia

3.

.

To fpre?d by report.

7.

Milioa,

l^ulUr.
_ .
,
fair is the kingcup that in meadow
hlowi.
Fair is the daify that beliJe her grows.

Milton.

And Dick tfie ftirplTcrd blc7fs his nail.
And Tom hears logs into the Kail,
And milk comes frozen home in pail.

Ecclus. xliii. i6.
Fruits, for long keeping, gather before they are
full rif-e, and in a dry day, towards noon,
and
when the wind hlnuttb not fouth ; and when the

ally with //.
It tkio a terrible temped at fea oner,
and there
was one fcaman praying.
VEJirar.gc.
If it ticvvt a happy gale, we muft fet up
all our
falls ; though it fometimes happens
that our natural heal is more powerful than our
care and cor-

angel trumpt^ts blow.

When ificles hanc by the wall,

his will tlie louth wind bktvctk.

O'er th' Elylian flow'rs.

"

This royal fair
,
^hjll, when the blolTom of her beauty
's hloto-n.
See her great brother on the Britifli
throne.

To warm with the breath.

6.

grove.

What drops the ,T,;.f,h, and what the balmy reed.

Bt^v the trumpet among the nations.
Jerm:iah.
Where the bright feraphim, in burning row,

To Blow. 'v. ft. pret. ileiv ; particip. paiT.

-2.

Our tended plants, how hlcwt the citron

that boys fametimcs hh-w
given a tenacity.

To found an inftrument of wind mufick.

5.

His brafj-infliaed woinds are fill'd.

•1.

bubWc-s,

We lofe the prime, to mark how fpiing

With water, to which foap hath

eggs in fleih.
1 much fear, left with the bltnot of flies

blanurt.

B L U

To form into fhape by the breath.

4.

The aft of a fly, by which fhe lodges

:7.

.

r,

Drydrn.

,

BBKREn. farticip. aJj. [from To bluhber.] Swelled; big: applied commonly

Bs.v

to the lip.

Thnu ling with him, thou booby never pii.e
Was fuprof.4n'd, to touch iha! 4,W-//,rV ii,i. Diyd.
Br o'dceon. *./ A fliort ilick, with one
end loaded, uCed as an oflenfive weapon.
!

BLUE. at/j. [bla^p. Sax. b/ai.

Fr.j

One

of the leven original colours.
Theie 's gold, and here

My Hurfl vein? to kif:

;

a h..n.l tliai

kings

Have lipt and tit-mbled kiiring.
Sha!i,(fcari.
Whfie fires thou fii.d'il umak'd, and Ilea, hs
unlwcpt,

There pinch the maids as tlut as bilberry.

SM.
O iCOWA<

1

;.

;

.

coward confcirnce. how doft thou affl'ifl mc
Is it not dead midnight ?
Cold fearful drops Aand ori my trembling flclh.

He Teems to underftand no differenee betwftn

!

The lights bum A/»^.

Sho\efptore<

fenlible be-

that he fhoulJ avoid bring particular in the drawing up of an army, and other circumltances ia the
day of battle ; for that he had obfcrved notorious

Blu'ebottle. tt.f. [cyanm ; from biue
and hoi lie.

blunder! and abfurJities committed by writers not

A flower of the bell ihape

converfant in the art of war.
yUdifin.
It is our own ignorance that makes us charge
thofe works of the Almighty as defeSs or b/undrri,
Drrham.
as ill-contrived or ill-made.

a /pecies of

botllejlonuer.
If ypu put hlaebcttlti, or other blue flowers, into
be flained

with red : be-

caufe the ants thruft their flings, and

Inllil

into

*

Ray.

them their ftinging liquor.
fly with a large blue belly.
3.

Blu'nderbuss. »./ [from ^/B«rf>r.]

Say, fire of infe£ls, mighty Sol,

A Hy upon the chariot pole
Prior.

and eye.l

Having blue eyes.
Kife, then, dii hiut-eyid maid, rife and difcover

Nor to the temple was (he gone, to move
With prajers the blut-tytd progeny of Jove. Dry.i.
Blueha'ired. aJj. [from hlut and bair.l
Having blue hair.

He quarters to his bine-haird deities.

While as the light burnt tlueiy.

head.]

A flupid fellow.

I.

;

not delicate ; not civil.

Whileh-jd, a grave divine, wasof a^/w«r ftoical
«C)i\e d^y the queen happened to fay, I

like thee the better, bccaufc thou liveft

to the matter, is wearifome ; to ufe none at all, is

Bacon.

blunr.

:

intenfive.
Others call out blood • and deadly fpeechei at
random ; and cannot hold, but blurt out, thofe
words, which afterwards they are forced to eat.

To BLU'NDER. 'v.». [^/xWwa, Dutch
perhaps from blind.]
1. To millake grofsly ; toerr very widely;
to millake (lupidly.
It is a word implying contempt.

1.

and Humbled, abo^t
^

South.

Thev blulh if they blurt out, ere well a*are,

A fwan
I.

Hn^ my heart hardened and blunt to n-:\v imit

will fcarce receive or retain aftie<^ions

ofycftcrday.

P'fe.

to ftumble.

In angel whitenefs, bear away thefc biulhes. Sbak,
I will

All thcfe things are graceful In a friend's mootli,

which arc blujhwg in a man's own.

the blood to the face ; although blujliing will be
feen in the whole breall, yet that is but in paR'age
to the face.
Bacon*
Blujhlhen, bat blujl) for joat dcftru£live filence.
That tears your fool.
Smith,

t.

Blunt not his love
Nor lofe the /jood advantage of his grace.

By feemitlg cold.

Shakeffeare.

To Bi.u'nder. V, a. To mix foolifhly or Blu'ntly. adv. [from blunt,]
I.

In a bluat utanQcr } withoat fharpnefs.

Bacon,

Shame caufrth bluJIAng ; blujlying is the rcfoi t of

DryJiit.

or power of the mind.

go walls;

And, when my face is fair, you-^all perceive
Whether I blujh or no.
Shakeff^eare.

To reprefs or weaken any appetite, defire,

Means n'lC, hui biuftden round about a meaninj^.

have mark*d

To ftart into her face; a thoufand innocent fliamrf.

To dull the edge or point*

And dallardize my courage.

Young,

[blo/en, Dutch.]

To betray fliame, or confafi-m, by a
red colour on the cheek or forehead.
1

He had fuch things to urge againft our marriage,
As, now declar'd, would blunt my fword in battle.

He who now to fcnfc, n iw nonfenfc leaning.

white, or Quei-nlbury is fair.

A thoufand blueing apparitions

Dryden.

2.

is

To BLUSH. 1'. n,

So fjcken waining moons too near the fon.
And blu»: tliiiir crefcents on the edge of day. DryJ.
Earthly limbs and grofs allay
Bhnt not the beams of heav'n, and edge of day.

other to blunder upon the reafon of it. L'SJImng'
The grandees and giants in knowledge, wlio
laughed at all befides themfelves, as barbarous and
tbfir principal concern.

upon furprizal, thusV\''wrr out. GoverK. of the Tongue,

ToBi.uNT. T. a. [from the noun.]

It is one tiling to forget matter of faA, and an-

infignilicant, yet blunJertd,

Hakcwill,

They had fome belief of a Deity, which they,

5. Hard to penetrate. This ufe is improper.
I

to ftain ; to fully.

unmarried.

Abrupt ; not elegant.
To ufc too many circumftances, ere one ctnne

preffions ;

;

But cannot biur my loft renown.
HuJibrat,
To Blurt, f. a. [without etymology.]
To fpeak inadvertently ; to let fly
without thinking commonly with out

'Tis not enough your coonfel ftlU be true :
Blunt truths more mifchief than oice faliehoods do.
Pofe.

Boyle

To blot

Sarcafnis may cclipfe thine own.

V/ott<in.

could make, with crude copper, a foUitinn

blindly.

t.

a blunt manner, alleging a warrant to ftop them.

fmall

Shakeffeurf.

Concerning innate principles, I defire thefe men
to fay, whether they can, or cannot, by cducaticn
and cuHoin, be blurred and blotted out ^
Luke,

He anlwcred. Madam, 1 like you the worfc. Bacm.
The mayor of the town came to fcize them in

"witliout the bluyhne/s Cliatis wont to accompany it^

;

Which then he wore.

Eiclej.

natute.

4.

to obfcure ; without, quite

Such an a£l.

Sidney.

Sbakijpeare.

Rough

3.

To blot;

That blurs the grace and blulh of m Dde.ly,
CaiU virtue hypocrite.
Sbakefpecre.
Long Is it iince I faw him j
But time hath nothing blurr'd thofe lines of favour.

L^EJirange.

Valentine being gone, I'll quickly crofs.

Shakeffearc.

A

S^utb,

on divinity.

At U 1, as fjr as I could caft my eyes

To flounder

a total univerfal poiluti:)p..

By fome fly trick, blant 'I'hurio's dull proceeding.

Side flceves and Ikirts, round underborne with

2.

a (lain ; a fpot.
;
Man, once fallen, was nothing but a great biir ;

Dull in under/landing ; not quick.

2.

fmall degree.

vulgar folut'ons.

A blot

If theironbcA/awr, and he do not whet the edge,

a

degree of blue colour.

Skal.

eiFacing.

Bluff, adj. Big; furly

Blu'ishness. «. /. [from Hue.']

and

At the rate of this thick-lkuUcd h'.undirhead,
every plow-jobber (hall take upon him lo re.id up-

then muft he put to .iiore ftr-.-iigth.

Upo:, the fea, fom?w}iat, roethought, did rife
••
Like bluifi mifts.
Prydcn.
Here, in full light, the ruiTet plaint extend ;
There, wrapt in clouds, the blkijh hills afccnd;
Pofi.

[from blunt

Bhr.t'.uiiicd lord, ignoble in demeanour.

to the blumtjl fwords.

The qua-

Blue in

Sidney,

whence fome

BLUR. ;;./ [Wra, Span, a blot, Siiimer.]

Dull on the edge or point ; not Qiarp.
Thanks to th.it beauty, which can gi\e an edge

1

bluftering.
;
Like thofc whom ftature did to crowns prefer,
Black-bruw'd and bluff, like Homer's Jupiter.
DryJcTU

difputes with civility ;

twixt bluntaej) of fpeech and ftrength of leafon.
Style.
Falfe friends, his deadlied foes, could find noway.
But ihows of honeft bluntnejx to bctrav.
Dryden,

BLUNT, ai^". [etymology uncertain.]

Sivift.

In a moment our liquor may be deprived of its
bluentjif and reftored to it again, by the aifufion of
Boyie on Cohun.
a few drops of liquors.

1

Manage

readers will be afliHed to difcern a difference be-

IVaiti.

lity of being blue.

a iluij!} tinfcl.

His filence grew wit, bis bluntntfi integrity, hit

Blu'nderhead. n.f. [from blunder and. To Blur. a». a. [from the noun.]

MiUon.

colour.
This 'fquire he dropp'd his pen full foon.

But ftill thc^/w)ir«cy} of his darts betrayed. SitckHn^,
Coarfenefs ; roughnefs of manners ;
rude fmcerity.
beaftly ignorance virtuous fimplicity.

itrcr, according to the company they have kept.

This place.

[from Hue.]

2,

A

Another fort Of judges will decide in favour of
an author, or will pronounce him a mere blun-

The greated and the belt of all the main,
Blxj'ely. ad-v. [from blue.'\ With a blue

dulncfs ; ob-

The crafty boy, that had full oft cday'd

head.

Cnijhaw.

;

want of iluu-pncfs.

To pierce my (tubltom and refilling breaft.

Drydin.

fiddle.

Want of -edge or point
tnfenefs ;

Blu'nderer. n. f. [from blunder.] A Blu'ntwitted. adj.
•v.it.] Dull ; ftupid.
man apt to commit blunders ; a block-

Thy filver browj and meet thy golden lover.

adj.

1.

go off' of their own accord at the fqueaking of a

Did ever with fuch fury drive ?
Blue-eyed. aJj. [from blue

Blu'ish.

Blu'ntkess. n./, [from blunt,]

There are blunderbijffis in every hoop-hole, that

Cries out, What hluchittle alive

[_fiom i/ue,]

For childbirth came, thus ilunrb/ fpoke his mind.

gun that is enlarged with mrviy bullets,
fo that, witho'it any exad aim, there is
a chance of hitting the mark.

A

Blu'eness. n. /.

Who to his wife, before the time aSgn'd
Dryden,

It was tlie advice of Sohoraberj to an bi.lorian,

only the hlua, and principally
the fccond khe, inclined a little to green. Nitv:m.

«n ant-hill, they will

ShakifjJtare,

or (hamcful millake.

fides red and blut ;

;

can keep honeil cuunfels, marr a curioni tile

A man of honcll blood.

Blu'nder. It./, [from the verb.] Agrofs

Prior.

There \Tas fcarce my other colour

1

in telling it, and deliver a plain mcffage bluntly,

:

The bluihing poppey with a crimfon hue,
Yet leave the lily pale, and tinge the violet blue t

Coarfely ; plainly ; roughly.

2.

and afts of worlliip ; between cxpreflions of cftecm and devotion ; between relifor he b/undirt and congious and civil worlhip
founds all tlicfe together ; and whatever proves
Sti/iirt^J]cet.
one, he thinks, proves all the rel>.
titles of refpeft

Why does one climate and one foil endue

X.

B L U

B L U

B L U

To carry a red colour, or any foft and
bright colour.
To-day he puts forth

The tender leaves of hope to-morraw bloflbmt.
And boars tus biujhing honsuri thick uo >n him.
;

Shakeffiart,

But

;

.

.

.

BOA

B L U
But here the rofcs tlujh io rare,

Blu'strovs. adj. \JroxatliiJ!er.'\ Tumul-

Here the mornings fniile ib tair,

But would be courteous, would be kind. Cnj/^JTf.
Along chofc blujhing borders, bright with Jew,
Tbcpijon.

The ancient heroes were illuftrious
For being benign, and not blujirout,

an old northern captain, of fuch fame,
name was ufed to terrify the

Shakefpeare.

that his

Calamy^s Sermcr.s

enemy.

.

To Blush, "v. a. To make red. Not ufed.
Pale and bloodlefs.
Being all defcendcd to the lab'ring heart.
Which with the heart there cools, and ne'er re-

The

colour in the cheeks,
(hame or confulion.

1,

Bo'ar-spear.

Sudden appearance: a fignification that
J.
fecms barbarous, yet ufed by good writers.
All purely identical propofitions, obvioudy, and
It firil tluJh, appear to contain no certain inftructio.T in

1

;

[fuppofed from
to be violent and

A table, [from burdJ, Wellh.]
Soon after which, three hundred lords he flew.

^

And blufi^ring ^olus his boafted fire.

Of BritiOi blood, all fitting at hisiaurj/. Fairy
In bed he (Icpt not, for my urging it j
At btard he fed not, for my urging it.
Shalufp.

So now his bhji'rhg Uaft each coall dotli fcour.

My gholl Oiall thee attend at board and bed.

Earth his uncouth mother was,
Sptnfer,
So now he llorms with many a fturdy ftoure ;

I'll

Cleopatra made Antony
fun^ptuous and royal ; howbeit there was no extraordinary fcrvice upon the board.
llakewil/ on Providence,
May cv'ry god his friendly aid aftbrd ;
Pan guard thy flock, and Ceres blefs thy board.

tumultuous.

My heart's too b'g to bear this, fays a btajler'mg
fellow ;

Sir, fays the gentle-

ril deftrojr myfelf.

man, here 's

dagger at

a

your fcrvice

humour went off.

U

:

To

the

f.jirangt.

Either he muft fink to a downright confeirion,
mud huff and hlufier, till perhaps be raife a
Gvuenmint of tbt Tongue,
counter-ftorm.
Virgil had the majefty of a lawful prince, and
Dryden.
Statius only the bluflcr'mt of 3 tyrant.
There let him reign the jailor of the wina'
With hoarfe commands his breathing fubjedls call,
And fcoaft and blujler in his empty hall. Drydrn.
or

held.
Both

better

An aflembly feated at a table
I

wiih the king would be

pleafed

Sbaiifftart.

To the winds t'^ey fet
Sea, air, ami (here.

2.

Milioti.

Noife ; tumult.
So, by the brazen trumpet's bhjiir.

Troops of all tongues and nations muftcr. Stvifi,
3.

Turbulence ; fiiry.

•

Spare thy Athenian cradle, and thofe kin.

Which in the blufitr of thy wrath muft fall
With tl.of.- that have oftended.
Shakffptari.
4. Boall ; boillcroafnefs.
A coward make; a great deal more tlufttr than
a man of honour.
L^E/irange.

[from blujler."] A
fwaggercr ; a bully ; a tumultuous ooify

Blus'terer.
fellow.

Vol. I.

n.

/.

Beard-wages, or a footman's livery.

Bo'arder. n.f. [from boeird.'\

6.

The deck or floor of a (lilp

;

on board

jiddijort.

fic ordered his men to arm long poles with
/harp hooks, wherewith they took hold of the tackling which held the mainyard to the mart of their
enemy's fhip ; then, rowing their own Ihip, they
cut the tackling, and brought the mainyard by the

hoard,

rate.
)i. /.
[from beard
and/f^oo/.]
A fchool where the fcholars live with the teacher.
It is commonly ufed of a fchool for girls.

A blockhead, with melodious voice.
In boardingfcho'ls can have lii^ choice.
Bo'arish.

to ftorm, ufed of a city.

adj.

[from Bear,]

Swifi.

Swini(h ;-

brutal ; cruel.
I would not fee thy cruel nails
Pluck out his poor old eyes ; nor thy fierce Cf?cr

In his anointed llefh Itick boarift> fangs.

Utak,

To BOAST, *. if. [bo/}, Welfh.]
1
To brag ; to difplay one's own worth,
or aflions, in great words.
Let not him that --utteth on his hamefs, itafi
himfelf as he that putteth it ofj.
JLWj.

The fp'rits beneath.

Whom I ftduc'd, bmjfing I could fuhdue
Th' Omnipotent.
2.

Mitlt»,

To talk oftentatioufly.
For I know the fnrrt ardnefi of your mind, for
which 1 Uaji ff you to tlicm of Macedonia.
I

3.

It IS ufed commonly

My f^ntencc

i-,

4.

Cor,\x,1,

with cf.

for open war ;

More inexpert, 1 boaft not.

Arbuihnot on Coini.

To Board, t. a. [from the noun.]
I. To enter a (hip by force ; the fame as

;

Bo'ardxnc-school.

fignifies in a (hip.
Now board to board the rival ved'els row,
The billows lave the Ikies, and ocean groans below.
Drydtn.
Our captain thought his (hip in fo great danger, that he confclTed himfelf to a capuchin who

was on board,

Dryden.

A tabler

one that eats with another at a fettled

fometimes
Bacon,

Their corner' ; when with bluj}ir to confound

To place as a boarder

When one fhort fitting many hundreds drains ;

a court

to be prefent at that board \ it adds a niajclty to ir.

The fkles look grimly,

a.

keep themfelves in viduais.
What more than madnefs reigns.

of jurifdiftion.

;

And threaten prefent blufitrt,

;

SpcHator.

1;.

in another's houfe.

is

acquainted with affairs, than any
other who fat then at that bottrJ.
Clarendon.

5.

Board.

Board-wages, n.f. [from board and
luages.]
Wages allowed to fervants to

Prior.

Entertainment; food.
4. A table at which a council or court

Herbert.

gentlemen and ladies,

paper to us all.
'To

3.

Bn;'sTER. n. /. [from the verb.]
-4
Roar of llorms tempeft.
.

We arc fevcral of us,

who b^ard in the fame houfe ; and, after dinner,
one of our company ftands up, and reads your

And not enough is left him to fupply

Sir jf. Denhem.
a fupper, which wa.

to fwaggcr ; to be

to puff;

;

Now thou wouldft taftc our mifcry.

follow thee in fun'rat fiames ; when dead.

Sfcnjcr.

To bully

That sve might not part.
As we at firft did board with thee.

Temple.

;

loud.

2.

Moxni Mechanical Excrcifet,
To Board, v. n. To live in a houfe,
where a certain rate is paid for eating.

Raleigh.

Go now, go truft the wind's uncertain breath,
Remov'd four fingers from approaching death
Or feven at mod, when tliickeft is the board. Dryd.
2.

To roar as a ftorm

1

Having thus boarded the whole room, the edges
of fome boards lie higher than the next board :
therefore thry perul'e the whole floor; and, where
they find any irregularities, plane them off.

Every houfe has a board over the door, whereon is written the number, fex, and quality of the
perfons living in it.

To l.iy or pave with boards.

3.

Fmri ^nerr.

planks.

Bactn.
5tratonica entering, moved a hlujhy colour in
his face; but dcfcrting him, he reiapfed into palcnefs and languor.
Harvrf tn Cunjumptiuni,
n.

and

hoar

[baurd, Goth. bpxd.
n. /.
Saxon.]
A piece of wood of more length and
breadth than thicknefs.
With the faw they fundred trees in loarJi and

hlupj, and fmell fweet.

klaft.\

Shake/pea- :,
They learn what afVociates and correfpondents
they had, and how far every one is engaged, and
what new ones they meant afterwards to try or
brard.
Bacon i Henry VII.

BOARD,

Blalfonis of tttes, that are white, are commonly
inodorate ; thofe of apples, crabs, peaches, are

a/,

[from

me in this fury.

Echion threw the tirrt, 'xi: mifs'd his mark.
And ftruck his boar-fprar on a maple bark. Dryd.

colour of a blu(h.

BLU'STER.

f.

Stuffed with ftcel-heailed darts.

Loch,

chem.

Blu'shy. fl<^'. [from ^/«/^.] Having the

•Jo

n.

And in her hand a fliarp boar-fpear flic held.
And at her back a bow and quiver gay,

A red or purple colour.

2.

With goodly reafon, and thusfair befpake. Fairy £J.
Away, 1 do befcech you both, away;
I'll hoard him prefently.
Stakcfpeare's Hamlet,
Sure, unlefs he knew fome ftrain in me, that
I knew not myfelf, he would never have boarded

A fpear ufed in hunting the boar.

Jpear.l

Pt^r.

To attack, or make the firft attempt
upon a man ; aborder quelqu'un, Fr.
Whom, thus at gaze, the palmer 'gan to board

2,

Temple.

She fped the b'jur away :
His eyeballs glare with fire, futfui'd with biood ;
His neck Ihuts up a thickeil thorny wood ;
His brilHed back a trench impal'd appears. Diyd.

The virgin's v.ifli, without !ier fears, impart;
Ixcufc ihe i/ujh, and pour out all the heart.

fya//cr.

Weie to inccnfe the ioaito follow us. Sbai.f/ejrt.

raifed by

now on the beifc,

Arm, arm, fhe cry'd, and let our Tyriansi.a/i
With ours his fleet, and carry fire and fword. Dent.

To fly the bmr, before the boar purfues,

Steiif/i.

:

It niil's'd the dtike, but his great heart it griev'd.

BO'AR. n.f. [ban, Saxon ; ^«r, Dutch.]
The male fwine.

turnech

Imrdid the king's fliip

flam'd amazement.
Shake/pear;.
He, not inclin'd the Engli& (hip to board.

More on his guns relies than on his fword.
From whence a fatal volley we leceiv'd ;

A

You have not yet loft all )our natural modefty,

To t/ujh and beautify the cheek again.
Blush, n./. [from the verb.]

Iludibras,

BMI. »./, A note in mufick.
Bmi, Bianca, t.'.ke him for thy lord. Staieffmri.
word of terrour ; from Bo,
Bo. interj.

He whin'd, and roar'd away your viftory,
That pages bbijh'd at him; and men of heart

but btujb ct your vice5,

I

Gamut I am, the ground of all accord,

It has at before the caafe of fliame.

Loolc'd wondVing at each othef.

I

Now in the wafte, the deck, in every cabin,

tuous ; noify.

As if neirher cloud) nor wind,

3.

BOA

0/ wiles,
Miltias.

Sometimes with in.
They boajl in mortal things, aod *-ond'rlng tell
Of Babel, and tlic works of Memphian kings.
RTdttn,

Di

Some

;

;

.

fretn thence as far as Augufta and Syri(«re, tbaut

furgenni I have met, cartj-ing t>on«4 about
hcejtmg in that which was their

an hundipj lt.ili.in niilci, in loud kotiiian.

in thiir rotkcts,
ffianif.

"

Thus with youv mouth yon have t'tijlrd againft

Bo'atman.
Bo'atsman.

Ezri. xiiv. 13.
t/.

tious language.
For if 1 have hajfcd any thing to him of you,
2 Cor. vii. 14.
I am not alhamrd.
Neither do the fpirits damn'd
Lofe all their virtue, left bad man fliould ho:'fi

An ill-bred koalman, rough as waves and wind.
Prior.

Bo'ATSWAtN. n.f. [from boat a.nA/tvain.]
An officer on board a lliip. who has
charge of all her rigging, ropci, cables,
anchors, fiils, flags, colours, pendants,

Milton.

Their fpecioiis deeds.

l5c. Healfot.akes care of the long-boat,
and its furniture, and ileers her either

If they vouchfaled to give Cod the praife of his
goodncfs ; yet they did it only, in order to ioaji

To magnify

bv himfelf or his mate. He calls out
the feveral gangs and companies to the

yilurtury.

the intereft they had in him.

to exalt.
They tiiat tmft in their wealth, and i!><i^thcmfclvcs in themultitudeofthcirriches. Pf.i/m xl\x. 6.
Confounded be all them that ferve graven ima-

2.

;

execution of their watches, works, and

and he is alfo a kind of provoftand punilhes all offenders, that are fentenced by the captain,
or court-martial of the whole fleet.
fpells ;

niarfhal, fcizes

P/alm xcvii. 7.

ges, that icaj} thcmfelves of idols.

Boast. ». /. [from the verb.]

An expreffion of oflentation

I.

;

a proud

Harris.

fpeech.
Thou, that makeft thy ic^Ji of the law, through
l>realcing the

Remans f ii. 23.
;

when the great a£lion

that occafioned

A caufe of boafting

it is

for-

To BOB. V. a. [of uncertain etymology:
Skinner deduces it from bobo, foolilh.
Span.]

Sfrfijur.

gotten.

i,

Sometimes the meaneft tcaiftvain may help to
prefcrvG the fliip from finking.
H'jiucl's Prt-cn-.imnce of Pilr!iar>!!Vt.

Uw dishonoured thou God ?

The world is move apt to find fault than to
commend the tiajl will probably be cenfurcd,

;

an occafion of

pride ; the thing boalted.
Not Tyro, nor Mycene, match her name.
Nor great Alcmcna, the proud l^ajii of fame. Pope.

Bo'aster. »./. [from boajl.] A bragger ;
a man that vaunts any thing oilentatioufly.
Complaints the more candid and judicious of
the chymllls thcmfelves are wont to make of thofe
hcnfteri, that confidently pretend that they have
cxtraAed the fait or fulphur of quickfilver, when
they have difguifed it by addiumcnts, wherewith
Boyle,

it rcfemblcs the concretes.

No more delays, vain boafier ! but begin
I prophefy beforehand I /hall win ;
lil teach you how to brag another time. Dryden.

To cut.
To beat

1

2.

Shakejpiare.

To cheat

3.

1

He calls mc to a reftitution large
Of gold and jewels that I bohb'd from him,
As gifts to Defdemona.
(hould have the booty,
bobbed us both on't.

To Bob.

as, a faffnge

Boa'tion. n.f. \ixQvciboare, Lat.] Roar;
noifc ; loud found.
In Mcifina IniuucAIonj the guns were hcatd

L'Efrrjr.gt.

play

lool'ely

any

againft

Midjummer Nigbt'i Dream.

They comb, and then tliey order ev'ry hair ;

A birthday jewel bobbing at ihcir ear.

Drydev.
Y'ju may tell her,
I'm rich in jewels, rings, and bobbing pearls,
Dryden.
Pluck'd from Moors ears.

Bob. «./. [from the verb neuter.]
Something that hangs fo as to play
1.
loofely ; generally an ornament at tlie
ear ; a pendant ; an ear-ring.
The gaudy golTip, when (he's let .igog.
In jewels drcrt, and at each car a /'sA.

The words repeated

at the

Dryden.

end of a

L^EJlrange.

A blow.
am

fliarply

taunted,

pinches, nips, and bobs.

4.

yea

fometimea

with

yif^tam't Scboolmajier.

A mode of ringing.
[bobtne, Vt. irom bombyx,
Lat.] A fmall pin of wood, with a
notch, to wind the thread about when

Bo'bbin. n.f.

women weave lace.
The thingt you follow, and make fongs on now,
(hould be fent to knit, or lit dowu to bebtini, or
Teller.

bootlace.

Grtiu^s Mujefum.

Bo'bcherry. n.f. [from bob and cheny."]
A play among children, in which th,o
cherry is hang fo as to bob againll the-

mouth.
Bobcberry teaches at once two noble virtues,
patience and conft.uicy ; the fird, in adhering to
the purfuit of one end j the latter, in bearing a
jirbvthr.ot and Pope.

di (appointment.

Bo'btaii.. It./, [(vom bob, in the
of fa/.] Cut tail ; fhort tail.
Avaunt, you curs

fenl'c

!

Be thy mouth or black or white.

Or bobtail tike,
Tom will make him weep and wail. Shakefpeare,
Bo'bt AILED, adj. [from bobtail.] Having a tail cut, or fhort.
or trundle tail,

There was a boblailed cur cried in 3 gaiette,
and one that found him brought him home to h^s
maftcr.
VEfirahge.

A

Bo'bwig. n. f. [from ^e^ and tuig.]

Ihort wig.
A young fellow riding towards us full gallop,
with a bobivig and a black (ilken bag tied to it,
llopt (hort at the coach, to a(k us
judges were behind.

how

far the
SpeBator,

Bo'cAsiNE. n.f. A fort of linen cloth ; a
fine buckram.
Diil.
Bo'cKELET. \»./. A kind of long-wingBo'cKERET.j
ed hawk.
To BODE. T. a. [bobian. Sax.]

To portend ; to be the omen of. It is ufed in
a fenfe of either good or bad.
This bodes fome ({range eruption to our ftate.
Hamlet.

You have oppofed their falfe policy wirh true
and great wifdom ; what they boded would be a
mifchicf to us, you arc providing (hall be one of
^pratt^s Sermons.
our principal ftrengths.
It happcn'd once, a boding prodigy
I

A (warm of bees that cut the liquid (ky
Upon the topmaft branch in clouds alight.

Dryd.

If (icry red his glowing globe dcfcends.

High winds and furious tempe()s he portends 5
But if his cheeks are fwoln with livid blue.

Sir, give me leave to fay, whatever now
Dryden.
The omen prove, it bodfd well to you.
Bo'dement, n.y; [from bodt.] Portent j

omen

prognoftick.
;
This foolilh, dreaming, fuperllitious girl.

Makes all thefe bodcntents.

Shakefpeare.

Macbeth (hail never vanquilh'd be, until
Great Birnam-wood to Dunfinane's high hill
Shall come againlt him
That will never be
Sweet bodements, good.

Shakefpeav.

To Bodge, f n. [a word in Shakefpeare,
which is perhaps corrupted froin boggle.]
To boggle ; to flop ; to fail.
With this we charg'd again but out, alas!
:

We bulg'd again

To bed, to bed, will be the bob of the fong.

I

Not netted nor w.-.vcn with warp and woof, but
after the rrnnncr oi bobbinv-'crH.

.

flanza.

3.

[from bobbin and

forelhew.

In very likenefs of a roafted crab
And when (he drinks againft her lips I bcb.
And on her withered dewlap p 'ur the ale.

2.

n. /.

Work woven with bobbins.

He boeles wet weather by his watry hue. Drydm,
To Bo D E. "v. n. To be an omen ; to

And fomctimes lurk I in a goflip's bowl.

1 do not

;

curfed fox has

To play backward and

n.

to

this

till

thing.

nfually diftinguirtied from other velTels,

A fhip of a fmall fize

1).

forward ;

It is

boat, peuquet boat, ad-vke boat , fly boat.

Shakefpeare.

Here we have been worrying one another, who

Bo'astingly. aJv. [from boafiing.'] Of-

2,

Shakefpeare.

Live, Roderigo \

your firft fon is a 'fquire j
The next a Cradefman, meok, and much a liar.
Pope.

think that any one nation, the Syrian
excepted, to whom the knowledge of the ark came,
did find out at once the device of either Hiip or
fioii, in which they durft venture themfclvcs upon
Raieigb^J Ej/ayt.
the fcas.
An effeminate fcoundiel multitude !
Whofe utmoft daring is to crofs the Nile
In painted ioats, to fright the crocodile.
Tate^t Juvenal-

to gain by fraud.

;

have bobbed his brain more than he has beat

my bones,

Bcnjifufy and rough,

by being fmaller and uncovered, and
commonly moved by rowing.

to drub ; to bang.

Thole b.illard Britons, whom our fathers

Oflentatious ; inclined to brag.

BOAT. «./. [bar, Saxon.]
1. A veflel to pafs the water in.

Whence bobtail.

"Junius.
;

Have in their own land beaten, boib'd, and thump'd.

He the proud h^flirt lent, with item aflault,
Down to the realms of night.
Phi/if 1.
Bo'astful. adj. [from ioafi and _/«//.]

tentatioufly.
We look on it as a pitch of impiety, ioafiifigly
to avow our fins ; and it deferves to be confidercd,
whether this kind of confefling them, have not
fome affinity with it.
Decay of Piety.

Diyd-

T.i wond'rir.g pallengers, the walls below.
That booby Phaon only was unkind.

a.

To brag of; to difplay with oftenta-

1.

manages a boat.

that
J
Bottfmen through the cryftal water (ho*,

mc, and multiplied your words againft nie.

To Boast,

) »./. [from boat ixnd tnan.]

He

Bo'bsivwork.
ti;ori.]

Derhiim'l PbyfiiO-Tbenliry-

ff^ifeauB.

To exalt one's felf.

5.

BOD

BOB

BOA
."xjine

:

:

as I

have fcen a fwan,

Wita booticfs labour, fv^im ag.i:n{l the tide.

Stal.

[from bodies.] Stays; a
waiftcoat quilted with vyhalebone, worn
by women.

Bo'dice.

n. /.

Her bodice halfway (he unlacM }
About his arms (he (lily call
The (ilkcn band, and held him faft.

Prior.

This conliJcration (hould keep ignorant nurfcs
Locke.
and io</jf.-.T.akers fr>m me.ldliiig.

Bo'DiLEss.fl(^'. [from ^ci^'.] Incorporeal j

having no body.
They bodilrfi and immaterial are.

And can be only lodg'd witliin our rounds. Davies.
Th.s

I
\

;

,

.

BOG

BOD
This IS the verj' coinage of our brain
This hcd'deft creation ccftafy
Is vcrj* cunning in.

4. Reality ;

•

Empty vifinns cf 'he brJin.
Bo'di.ly, a:/;, [from ifO((y.]
I. Corporeal ; containing body.

Stvift.

There

or'

When pigmies pretend to form ihemfelves into
a hofiy, it is time for us,
to look ab->ut us.

their fouh

reafon.

t'tihtjon,

not

have children much beaten for
I would not have them (bink

their faults, hecaufe
hod'ily

3.

Luki.

pain the greatell puniihnQcnt*

:

human nature,

It is his

dv^ells hoJi/y,

that

is

in which the

advanced to

thciie

and to this empire.

Bo'dkin, n,/,

godhead
honours,
JVata,

whole hotiy will be certainly againft me; and the
laity, almofl to a man, on my fide.
Swift,
Nothing was more common, th.m to hear that
reverend hoeiy charged with what is inconiillent j
defpifcd for their poverty, and hated for their

.

richer.

SiJmy.

Or plungM in lakes of bitter waihes lie,
Or wedgM whole ages in a ladkiit's eye.
3. An inibument to drcfs the hair.
You took conftant cjrc
The bodiin, comb, and ciVcncc to prepare

P(/f>e»

a

it originally

and took the b'jJy of Saul, and the bodies nf his
fun&, from the wall.

Take no thought for your lift,

Samuel,
what ye iha!l

cat, or what ye Oiali drink j nor yet for yn\ir bcdy^

Matthcio,
what ye /hall put on.
By cultom, pudlice, and patrencr, all dJlficultics

and hardihips, whether of body or oi fortune, are
VEjirange.
made eafy,
2.

Matter

3.

A perfon

:

oppofed to fpirit.
a human being:
;

whence

fomebody and nobody
Surely, a wife b'jdy^t part it were not ti put out

his Are, becaufe hit f<H>li(h n«igiibour, from whom
he borrowed wherewith to kindle it, might fay,

were it not fur me tliou wnuldil freeze.

A defiow*r(fJ maid

Hooker.

!

And by an eminent bcdy, that enfiirc'd
Sbakrjpeare,
The law againll it
!

*Ti» a pafling fhame^
T hat I, unworthy bcdy a& 1 am,
Shak.
Siiould ccnfurc thu» on lovely gentlemen.
No icA fceth me j what need 1 to fear > the
Ealus,
Moft High will not rc:nrinUr my fmi.
All civility and reafon obliged every body to
Clarendan,
fubmit.
Good may be drawn out of evil, and a br)dy'%
tifc may be faved without having any obligation to
hit prcUiver.
Vt-fitangi,

Sbakefpearcm

pyTheir country was very narrow, low, and boggy,
by great induftry and cxpcnces, defended
ArbuihtM.
from the fea.
and,

Bo'g HOUSE,

[from ^ef and houfi.'\

n. f.

A houfe of office.
Bohe'a. n.f. [an Indian word.] A (pedes
of tea, of higher colour, and more
.

aftringent tafte, than green tea.
Coarfe pewter, confifting chiefly of lead, is part
of the bales in which hobca tea was brought from
Wood'ward»
China.
As fome frail cup of China's faireft; mold
The tumults of the boiling bobea braves.

Clothing for

horfes

that

To part her time 'twixt reading and bobea.
To mufe, and fpill her folitary tea.

am informed that feveral afTcs arc

kept in
and fweatcd every morning upon the

1.

2.

A

and whirlpool, o'er bog and quagmire. Sbakeffteure.
A gulf profound as that Serbunian bi.gj
Betwixt Damiata and mount Cafius old. ATi/rott.
He walks upon bjgs and whirlpools j vvhcrcSouth.
focvcr he treads, he finks.
Learn from fo great a wit. a land of bogs
with
fogs.
Dry J.
ditchc'i
fcnc'd,
heaven
fat
With
a
He is drawn, by a fort of i£i>;j fatuui, into io/i
h^atri,
and mire almoin every day of his life.
!

Boo-TROTTER. ». /
One that lives in a boggy countrv.

[from bog and Iral.}

To BO'GCiLP:. f. n. [from bogil, Dutch,
a fpcclrc, a bugbear, a pliantom.]

To be hot ; to be fervent, or effervefcent.
That ftrength with which my boi/itig youth was
fraught.

To

As imagination bodie$ forth
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
Sbakrfpeare.
Turns them to ihapc.
BOG. n.f. [bog, foft, Irilh ; bague, Fr.]
marlh ; a morafs ; a ground too foft
to bear the weight of the body.
Through iire and through ftami;, through fnrJ

To be agitated by heat ; to fluftuate
with heat.
He faw there ioi/ the fiery whirlpools. Chapman.
Suppofe the earth removed, and placed nearer to
the fun, in the orbit of Mercury, there the whole
Beniley.
ocean would boil with extremity of heat.

ytjdijhn.

To Bo'dv. V, a. [from the noun.]
produce in fome form.

Pope,

To BOIL. v. n. \boutlhr, Fr. bullio, Lat.]

are

dieted.

tiekelK

She went from opera, park, afl'cmbly, play.
To morning walks, and pray'rs three hours a day;

12. Strength ; as, wine of a good body.
n. f. [from body and

«

A

You have been a boggier ever.

£oyle»

heath.

Ho^vel.

doubter ;

Bo'cGY. adj. [from bog^ Marlhy ; fwam-

Bouy-ci.OTHts.

1

to diffemble.

a timorotts man.

nity.

body-cl^iatbiy

;

And holds fccure the coffee's fable waves.

[In geometry.] Any folid figure.
11. A pandeft ; a general collection : as,
a /Wv of the civil law ; a boe/y of divi-

clothes.']

To play fail and loofe

Bo'cc 1.7.9.. n.f. [from boggle."]

Even a metalline body^ and therefore much more
vegetable or animal, may, by tire, be t'irned

into water.

Agnized the height or flature of a man.]
1. The material fubftance of an animal,
oppofed to the immaterial foul.
All the valiant men arofc, and went all night,

then you begin to boggle.
hoe he.

for him to boggle with the world.

matter, as diilinguilhed

;

Make the ejrs a little

you ?

When fummoned to his lail end, it was no timo

10.

For this your locks in paper durance bound. Pcpe.
;

3.

from other matter.

!

BO'DY. ft./, [bobij, Saxon

A fubltance

9.

fiiy

more pointed, and the nofe a little

flatter tlian ftrdinary, and

as, the boeiy,

bylon) from whence, by the i?</f of Euphrates,
as far as it bended wellward \ and, afterward, by
Raleigh,
a branch thereof,
This city has navigable rivers, thit run up into
the body of Italy ; they might fupply many counAcitiifzrt,
tries with fi(h.

An inftrument with a fmall blade and

An iuftrument to draw a thread or ribband through a loop.

:

or hull, of a (hip; the tody of a coach ;
the botiy of a church ; the boJy, or trunic,
of a man ; the body, or trunk, of a tree.
Thence fent rich merchandizes by boat to Ba-

iharp point, ufed to bore holes.
Each of chem had bodkins in their Jiands, where2.

longer, and

Stvift*

The main part ; the bullc

8.

l^boddikcnt or fmall body ;

with continually they pricked him.

a rational foul,

A

Skinner,'^
1.

Clarendon.

corporation ; a number of men
7.
united by fome common tye.
I (hall now mention a particular wherein your

Bo'dilv.W-v. Corporeally; united with
matter.

^(iii'tj:,ns Cuartiian,

w-ell.

To hefitate, to be in doubt.
And never boggle to reftore
The members you deliver o'er.
Hudibras.
Upon demand.
The well-fhapcd changeling is a man that has

who are men oi figdre,

and Wilmot ; in tl:e totly was the king
and the prince j and the 'r^sr confifted of one
thoufand foot, commanded under colonel Thel-

in this ftate,

Shakiipeare.

Drydcnt
2.

general

That could be brought Co h^ily adl, ere Rome
K.id circumvention.

Goes boldly on, and loves the path when worn.

The main army ; the battle diftinft
from the wings, van, and rear.
The van of tnc king's army was led by t)ie

6.

Real ; adual.
Whatever h.ith been thought on

UsM to the road, unknowing to return,

Ciartrd^n,

king.

Virtue atcncS for h-kf'tfy defers j beiuty is nothing worth, without a mind.
L^Eftrangt,
As clcarncf'i of the hdiiy eye dcth (fifpofc it
for a quicker fight ; fo doth freedom from luft
and paHion difpofe us for the moil pcrfc£l ad^s of

would

Grattvilkm

Nature, that rude, and in her fitft eflay.
Stood boggling at the roughnefs of the way j

Hooker,

certit'es gave occafion of

I

tlic

There were fo many difaffeflcJ pcrfons of the
mbility, that there might a b<uty Hart up for the

came not any unto him

happinefi, than they whofc bfdily nefeeking relief.
H^^ker.

cverlafting

Shakefpeare*

Vft ftart and boggle at every unufual appearance,
and cannot endure the fight of the bugbear.

;

vided between them the whole body of mankind.

Of fuch as reforted to our Savif»ur Chrift^ being
for the benefit

in

You baggle-lknviily i every feather flarts you.

man this certainty, that lite and death have di-

Relating to the body, not the mind.
prefcnt on earth, there

is

to fly back ; to fear to come

;

forward.

a joint power.
knowledge both of God and

A colleftive mafs

5.

Whjc refemblancc could wi>od or ftonc bear to
1 rpiric void ot' all fenTible qualities, and iodi/y
Scuth,
dimcnfions ?

with betrcr fucceTs,

To ftart

1

Colojpans.

ClirilV.

Phantoms bod'thft and vain.

Z.

oppofed to reprefentation : a

fcriptural fenfe.
A ihadow of things to come j but the body is of

Sbakefptart.

Theft are but fliadows,

B O I

When in the vale of Balafor I fought.

Dryditi.

Well I knew
What perils youthful ardour would purfue.
That bciling blood would carry thee too far. Dryd,
3.

To move with an agitation like that of
boiling water.

Then headlong flioots beneath the dalhing tide.
The trembling fins the boiling waves divide. Gay^
4. To be in hot liquor, in order to be
made tender by the heat.
Fillet of a fenny fnake.

In the cauldron boil and bake.

5.

Sbakefpeare^

To cook by boiling.
If yiitt live in a rich family, roafting^d boiling

are below the dignity of your ofHce, and which it

becomes yr>u to be ignorant of.

ilivife*

6. To bait over. To run over the vefTel with
heat.
A few foft words and a kift, and the good man
nicltt i fee how nature works and btili ever in him.
Cmgrnie.
Thi>
d »

D

.

,

B O L

B O L

B O L

Th'u hollow was a vaft cauldron,

w'ltli

I have fcen the councils of a noble country grow

melceil matter, which, as it hci/eJ vvtr in any part,
raa down the fitics of the mountain. Add\j, on Italy,

hold, or timorous, according to the fits of his good

tilleil

or ill health that managed them.

To Boil. v. a. To heat, by putting into

mifs.

Ba<on.
In eggs boiled and roalled, into which the water
entcrf th not at all, there is fcavce any difference to
Bacon,
be difcemed*

the gofpel of God with much contention, i Tbeff".
I can be bcid to fay, that this age is adorned
with fome men of that judgment, that they could
open new and undifcoveicd ways to knowledge.
Locke.

5. Licentious; fuch as (hew great liberty
of fitlion, or expreflion.
The figures arc bold even to temerity. Co^vley.
Which no hold tales of gods or monfters fwell,
But human palTions, fuch as with us dwell. Waller.

furious,

Dutch.]
1. Violent; loud; roaring ; ftormy.
By a divine inftinft, men's minds millrufl
£nfuing danger; as by proof we fee

the eye,
Catachrefes and hyperboles are to be ufed judicioufly, and placed in poetry, as heightenings and
fliadows in painting, to make the figure holder, and

rend
7.

His reeling trunk, and with a boifi^roui found
Scatter hi> leaves, and ftrew them on the ground.
2. Turbulent ; tumultuous ; furious.
Spirit of peace,

Wherefore do you fo ill tranflate yourfelf

Out of the fpeech of peace, that bears fuch grace,
Into the harlh and hoiji'rous torgueof war ? Shak.
His fwcetnefs won a more regard
Unto his place, than all the hojJTrcut moodJ
Ben Jon/on,
That ignorant g'eatnefs praflileth.
God into the hands of their deliverer
Puts invincible might.
To quell the mighty of the earth, th' oppreflor.
The brute and iol/i'nus force of violent men. Afi/rtr.
Still mult I beg thee not to name Scmpronius
Lucia, I like not that loud hoifienui man. AdJiJt>n.

I

Unwieldy ; clumfily violent.
His hiijlerous c\\ib, fo buried in the ground.
He cou'td not reaien up again fo light.
But that the knight him at advantage frund.

Fain i^ecn,
4. It is ufed by ff^ocd-warii of hent ; violent.

When the fun hath gained a greater ftrength,
the heat becomes too powerful and boi/trrcus for
Naiurcl Uijhry.
them.
boijlerous."]

Violently ; tumultuouily.

Thofe are

Bo'lSTEROUSNESS. n.f. [ftom hoijlerous

.'\

The ftatc cr quality of being boiilerous
;

y.

Our fear exdudeth not that boldnefs which beHooker,
Cometh faints.
We have holdnefi and accefs with confidence, by
Ephepani.
the faith of him.
Having therefore holdnefi to enter into the holicft by

&bakijpcare,
Procure me fome accefs.
Aldkingfo hold.
My fears forgetting manners, to unfeal
Slakcffeare,
Their grand commiffinn.
And were y* as good as George a Green,
Htidibras,
I fh?ll make bold to turn agen.
I durft not make thus bold with Ovid, leil fome
Dryden.
future Milbourn rtiould arifc.
Some men have the !oi tune to be efteemed wits,
only for making bold to feoff at thefe things, which
tilloijon.
the greater part of mankind reverence.

To Bo'lden.i».

a.

[from bold.'\

Wonderful is the cafe of holdnefi in civil bufiwhat firft ? Boldnefs,
What fecond and

And yet holdnefi is a child of
Boldnif,
ignorance and bafenefs, far inferiouc to other parts.
Bacon,
Sure, if the guilt were theirs, they could not
charge thee
With fuch a gallant holdnefi ; if 'twere thine.
Thou couldft not hear 't with fuch a lilent fcom.

third i

Denham,
His dil^ance, though it does not inftruft him to
think wifer than other princes, yet it helps him to
fpeak with more holdnefi what he thinks. Temple,
Boldnefs is the power to fpeak or do what we
intend, before others, without fear or diforder.

turbulence.

the nature of bole, or clay.

A Hvak and inanimate kind of loadilone,wirh a
few magnctical lines, but chiefly confilVmg of a
bcUrj and clammy fubftance. Brcivn'i Vu!g, Err.

BOLD, adj, [bate, Saxon.]
Daring; brave; ftout ; courageous;
magnanimous ; fearlefs ; intrepid.
TliC wicked flee when no man purfucth ; but
the iig}>tcous are iold as » Uon.
Provcrii.

Locke,

Impudence.

6.

That moderation, which ufeth to fupprefs holdmake them conquer that fuffcr. Hooker,

nefi, and to

BOLE. «./
The body or trunk of a tree.
1

All fell upon the high-hair'd oaks, and

earth ; and up went all th:
and boughs.
Chapman,
But when the fmoither bole from knots is free,
Wc make a deep inclfion in the tree.
Dryden,
View well this tree, the queen of all the grove ;
How vail her tJe, how wide her arms are fpread.
How high above the reft <hc (boots her head Dryd,

Fell buftling to the
boles

!

2.

help of

j^fcbam's Scboolmajli

am mucli t.TO vent'rous
In tempting of your patience, but am bolden^d
I

t'nder your promis'd pardon.

Sbakefpeare,

3.

A kind r

How now, bcldfa<t ! cries an old trot: firrah,
you eat, you fteal,

L KJlrarge.

Bo'ldfacld. adj. [from ^eA/ and _/flr^.]

'

irth.
Bole Armii..,.,^ is an aftringent earth, which
takes its name from Armenia, the country from
which we have it.
V'oodward,

A

meafure of corn, containing

bufhels.
Of good barley put eight holes, that

;

proach and reprehenfion.

down

their curled brows

To make

Bo'ldface. n.f. [from bold znA jfau;'\
Impudence; faucinefs
a term of re-

Hthrervs,

nefs :

bold ; to give conhdencc.
Quick inventcrs, and fair ready fpeakers, being
boldcnid w'wh their prefent abilities to fay more,
and perchance better tf/i, at the fudden for that

the blood of Jefus.

Aflurance ; freedom from bafhfulnels ;
confident mien.

;,

have made hold to fend to your wife ;

we cat our own hcrr, I'd have you knr>\v ; what
;

Bo'lary. adj. [from hole.^ Partaking of

I.

;

fmooth ; even ; level : a failor's

diligence and ftudy.
Sl-ak,

remains of the univerfnl dcluire,
when the water of the ocean, being hijlrrn'jh
turned out upon tlie earth, bore along with it .th
fyo'niwaid.
moveable bodies.
Another faculty of the intelleft comes hmjiimjU
in, and wakes me from fo pleafmg a dream. S^vjift.
all

tumu'tuoufnels

;

prefcnt, than any other can -do, ufe lefs

A fceptrc, fnatch'd wiili an unruly hand,
Wuft be as toijleroujly mainta'n'd as gain'd.

Open

Dryden,

Freedom ; liberty.
Great is my holdnefi of fpeech toward you great
is my glorying in you.
2 Corinthians,
Confident truft in God.

3,

My fuit is, that the will to Dcfdemona

;

[from

The holdnefi of the figures is to be hidden fometimes by the addrefs of the pixM, that they may

term.
Her dominions have hold acceflible coalls. Howel.
I.
To mail iold. To take freedoms : a
phrafe not grammatical, though common. To be bold is better ; as, / luas
hold to tell the houfe, that fcandalous
livings make fcandalous minillers.
Rudgerd,

If'aller.

.

nicety.

Dryden,

caufe it to (tand off to light.

Up by the roots, this way and that they bend

Sidney

Exemption from caution and fcrupulous

6. Standing olJt to the view ; ftriking to

The waters fwell before a hoijltroui ftorm. Siaieff,
As when loud winds a well-grown oak would

might fiicw a fearful

work their effeft upon the mindt

In thy profperlty he will be as tliyfelf, and will
be bild over thy fervants. If tliou be brought low,
Ecc.'ut.
he will be againll thee.

ffoodmiard.

Ihe rid fo, as

to do.

2,

Impudent ; rude.

4.

2. The veflel in which any thing is boiled.
This coffee-room is much frequented ; and
there are generally feveral pots and loiltrt before

oJi;

Her horfe

holdnefi, daring to do that which die knew not bow

We were bold in our God to fpeak unto you

That fuch alterations of terrelirial matter are
not impolTiblr, fecms evident from that notable
SijU.
praOicc ff tbe toilers of falt-petrc.

Bo'isTEROusLY.

nefs.

Confident; not fcrupulousj not timo-

.

3.

Bo'ldness. «./^from bold.]
Courage ; bravery ; intrepidity ; fpi1
rit ; fortitude ; magnanimity ; daring-

rous.

See Bii.b.
». / [from To toil.] A place at
the fait works where the fait is boiled.
Bo'iLER. /I./, [from toil.]
1
The perfon that boils any thing.

[hfier,

Rcficmniir:.

mafter-piece of Gothick archite£lurc^</i/i/'.<in J/a^.
3.

Boil. n,/.
Bo'i L A R y

the fire.

re-

The cathedral church is a very iuW work, and a

new feeds will fprout fooner.

may perhaps be fometimes ufed, in a

bad fenle, for impudently.

Thefe, nervous, bold ; thofe, languid and

cannot inform j but if you toU them in water, the

fpeak to fubjefls, and a fuWjeQ fpeaki,
Stakcfpeare.

2. It

caution.

To try whether feeds be old or new, the fenfc

adj.

I

Stirt'd up by heav'n, thus boldly for his king,

Temple,

Executed with fpirit, and without mean

t.

boiling water ; to feeth.

BOISTEROUS,

'

.

fix

Englifh quarters, in a (tone trough.

fix

is, about
Mortimer,

BO'llS. n,f. [Latin.]
Bolis is a great ficrj ball, fwiftly hurried through
the air, and generally drawing a tail after it. Ariftolle calls it caprj.
There have often been im-

menfe balls of this kind.

Mufihintrseck,

Impudent.

Boll. ». /. A round ftalk or ftem ; as, a

have ficn thole fillieft of creatures ; and,
thc'r lare works, I have fc"n enough to
confute all the boldfaced atheifts of this age.

To Boll,

I

feeing

Bramhall ttgfiitj} Uobhei.

Bo'loly. adv. [from bold.']
1. In a bold manner ; with courage ; with
fpiiit.

Thus we may boldly fpcak, being ftrengthened
with the exampU of fo reverend a pirbte. fiotkir.

boll of flax.

rife in

-v.

n.

[from the noun.]

To

a ftalk.

And the flax and the barley was fmltten : for
the barley was in the ear, and the flax wa^ holUJ,
Exodus,

BO'LSTER,

It.

f [bolj-tre. Sax, boljler,

Dutch.]
I.

Some-

.

}

;

.

!

B O L
Something laid on the bed, toraifeand
fupport the head ; commonly a bag filled
with down or feathers.

1.

Perhaps fome cold bank is her holjier now.
Or *gatnft the rugged bh.k of fome broad elm
Leans her unpillowM head.
Mtlton.
This arm (hall be a ioljler for thy head ;
ril fetch clean Uraw to make a foldier's bed. Gay.

2.

A pad,

or quilt, to

To fallen, as a bolt or pin

3.

in the bolting and lifting of fourteen years of
power and favour, all that came out could not be
pure meal.
Walton.
I cannot bolt this matter to the bran.
As Bradwardin and holy Auftin can.
Dryden.

To examine by fifting

6.

The pradice of holfttring the cheeks forward,
7.

We may be made wiler by the publick perfuaThe lawyer fets his tongue to fale for the hcijltr-

I.

Of purpofe to deceive us.
They erefled

BiM^.]
An arrow ; a dart fhot from a crofsbow.
;

Yet mark'd I where the Mt of Cupid fell
Before milk-white, now purple with love's wound.
Sbaiefpeare.

The blunted <o/f againft the nymph he dreftj
But with the (harp transfix'd Ap'illo's breaft. Dryd.

.Lightning ; a thunderbolt.

Dry,i,n.

Dryder.

fewed and faftened.
Sea Diil.
Bo'lter. n. /. [from the verb.]

Oreia.

As I ftood Ml upright opon one end, one of the
laaiei burft ou^.

j^dMfon.

The bar of a door, fo called from being
ftraight like an arrow. We now {iy,jhoot
tie bdt, when we fpeak of fattening or
opening a door.
*'i'is

not in thee, to oppoie the bolt

A^i'ynA my coming in.

Shaitfpeare.

An iron to fallen the legs of a priloner.
This is, I think, corrupted from bought,
or link.

Away with him to prifon

;

lay bittt

enough upon

him.

Sbaitjftartt

To Bolt. -v. a. [from the noun.]

Dry.lrn.

To blurt out, or throw out precipitantly.
1

1

A

fieve to feparate meal from bran or
hufks ; or to feparate finer from coarfcr
pnrts.
Dowlas, filthy ijowlas ! I have given them away
to bakers wives, and they have made boltirs of
them.
Shaktjpearc.
With a good ftrong chopping knife mince the
^V) capons, bones and all, as fmall as ordinary
minced meat j put them into a large neat hoiitr.

B aeon s Natural Hjftiry.
When fupercilioufly be fifis
Through coarfcft bolter others gifts.
2.
kind of net.

Hudibrai.

A

ihefi: hikes, and divers others of the foreand fome of them
with the bolter, which is a fpiUer of a bigger Cur..

cited, are taken with threads,

Carezv.

To (hut or fallen with a bolt.
The balled gates hew open at the blall
Tbe ftorm rulh'd in, and Arcite Hood aghart.

3.

bar'd,

Brufli iron, native or from the mine, confiftcth
of long ilriae, about the thickncfs of a fmall knit-

is,

ting needle, ioJi ufrighl, like the btiftles of a ftitt"

I.

Dryden.

BoLT-ROPE. ». / [from bolt and rope.]
The rope on which the fail of a (hip is

that

Wulh.

J.

Drayton.

upright as an

Bolt upright ;

arrow.

hate vfhvn vice caa^'/// her arguments,

And virtue has n j tong uc to check her pride, Milisn.

fupportcd by a pillar of iron, of the bignefs of.
one's arm in the midii ; which, if you had Itruck^.
would make a little flat noife in the room, but a
Bacon.
great bomb in the chamber beneath.

and

And beafts, that bolted out, and faw the forcft

With native earth your blood the monfters mix'd.

Eo'lthead. »./.

A loud noife.
An upper chamber being thought weak, was-

The birds to foreign feats rcpair'd;

fix'd.

4,

fort,

oti.

Sing'd with the flames, and with the it/ts trans-

3.

a

Stvifti-

BOMB. n.f. [bomius, Lat.]
1.

from thence they
boiled like beads of the forell, fometimea into the
foicft, fometimcs into the woods and faftnefTes,
and fometimes back to their den.
Baccn.
As the houfe was all in a flame, out bolts a
moufe from the ruins to fave herfelf. VEfirangc.
I have refleflcd on thofe men who, from time to
time, have /hot themfelves into the world. I have
feen many fucceflTions of them ; fome bolting out
upon the ftage with vaft applaufc, and others hiffed

Saulb.

It feil upon a little weftem Bower,

2

!

A complicated heap of ills,
Dcfpifing iolu/is and pills.

walking like a ragged colt,
And oft out of a bufli doth ball.

Hakcwi/l.

BOLT. n. f. [6ouii, Dutch

By poets we are well afiur'd,
That love, alas can ne'er be cur'd^'

Still

It was the way of many to hoffitr up their crazy

doating confciences with confidences.

This is harfli.
The fanned fnow,

quicknefs of an arrow.
This Puck feems but a dreaming dolt.

fyi/eman—

violets.

To purify; to purge.

To Bolt. 1;. ». To fpring out with (peed
and fuddennefs ; to ilart out with the

Hooktr.

tng out of unjuft caufes.

Keep their bodies foluble the while by dyftere,
and manna, witlr fyrup of-

lenitive boluja of callia

Sbakejpeare.

ijons grafted in men's minds. To they be ufed to

further the truth, not to Mjicr errour.

Sbakejpeare^

Bo'lus. n.f. [5oA©-.] A form of medicine, in which the ingredients are made
up into a foft mafs, larger than pills, to
be fwal lowed at once.

That'j bolted hf the northern blaft twice o'er.

to maintain.

coarfe and obfolete.

And burn in many places on the topmaA:,
The yards, and boltfpril, would I flame dlftinfVly.
;

be well bolted out, whether great refradions may not be made upon reflections, as
upon direct beams.
Bacon.
The judge, or jury, or parties, or the council, or
attornies, propounding quellions, beats and bolts out
the truth much better than when the witnefs delivers only a formal feries.
Hale.
Time and nature will W/ out the truth of things,
through all difguifes.
VEJlrange.

prefs.

fomewhat

Sometin.es I'd divide.

to try out ; to

;

It would

Mortal eyes do fee them talfier.
More than their own.
Shaktfpeart^s OtbeUo,
3. To hold wounds together with a com-

exprellion

cannot hold long after. Bovijprit is perSea Diil^
haps the right fpelling.

lay open.

To alFord a bed to.

to hold up ;

Handing upright, but aflope. The but
end of it is generally fet againfl the foot
of the foreman ; fo that they are a ftay
The length without
to one another.
board is fufiicient to let its fails hang,
clear of all incumbrances.
If the boltfprit fail in bad weather, the foremall

To fift, or feparate the parts of any
thing with a fieve. [bluter, Fr.]
He now had bmilted all the flour.
Sfevjer.

5.

To Bo'lster. v. a, [from the noun.]
1
To fupport the head with a bolfter.

;

Dennis,

Bo'ltsprit. 1 n.f. A mall running out
Bo'wspRiT. J at the head of a fliip, not

to Ihackle.
It is great

the bows, to hold the rider's thigh. Farritr'i Did.

now an

;

To do that thing that ends all other deeds,

}yijeman,

is

bolt inS>

The jade is returned as white, and as powdered,

Which ihackles accidents, and bolls up change.

S-w'ift.

does little fervicc to the wound, and is very uneafy
to the patient.
Sbarf,

[from

The place where meal is fifted.

as if Ihe had been at work in a bolting-bcufe,

Sbakejfteare.

4. [In horfemanihip.]
The bilfien of a faddle are thofe parts raifed upon

To fupport

houfe.]

Ben Jorjtin.

To fetter

4.

A pad, or comprefs, to be laid on a
wound.
The bandage is the girt, which hath a holjler in

This

Bo'ltinc-house. n. /.

That I could reach the a»le, where the pins are

the middle, and the ends tacked iirmly together.

4.

to pin ; to

Which bolt this frame, that I might pull them out

hinder any pref-

fill up any vacuity.
Up goes her hand, and off Ihe flips
The holjitn that fupply her hips.

2.

;

keep together.

fure, or

3.

BOM

B O L

2.

A hollow iron ball, or fhell, filled with,
gunpowder, and furnifhed with a vent
for a fufee, or wooden tube filled witl^
combullible matter, to be thrown out
from a mortar, which had its namefrom the noife it makes.
The fufee,
being fet on fire, burns flowly till it
reaches the gunpowder, which goes ofF
at once, burlling the (hell to pieces with

incredible violence :

whence the

ufe

of

bombs in befieging towns.
The langeft
are about eighteen inches in diameter.
By whom they were invented is not
known, and the time is uncertain; fome
fixing it to 1588, and others to 1495.
Chambert.
The loud cannon miflive iron pours.
And in the flaught'ringAomAGradivus roars, Rovve,.
To Bomb, 1;. a. [from the noun.] To
fall upon with bombs ; to bombard.
Our king thus trembles at Namur,
Whilft Villeroy, who ne'er afraid is.

To Bruxelles marches on Iccurc,
To bomb the monks, and fcare the ladies.
Prior.
Bo ME -CHE ST. ti.f. [from bomb and che/l.J
A kindof chell filled ufually with bombs,
and fometirses only with gunpowder,
placed under ground, to tear and blow
it up in the air, with thofe who (land
on it.
Chambers.

Bomb-ketch. 7

A long (Iraight-necked BoMB-viissEL. 3

n.f.

A kind of rtilp,

llrongly built, to bear

glafs vefTel, for chymical diftillations,
called alfo a matrajs, or receiver.

the Ihock of a mortar,

This fpirit abounds in fait, which may be feparated, by putting the litjuor into a ttllbcad with a

Nor could an ordinary fleet, with bomh-'vtjph,
hope to fuccecd againfl a place that haj in its arfenal gallics and mcu of vkar.
jiddifon on Italy.

long narrow neck,

Jlojlc.

when bombs arc

to be fired into a town.

Bo'.MBARD,

.

;

.

,

of matter in fo clofe a preiVur.'. together.

Union ; connexion

3.

now obfolete.

down the houfes.
Kmlla,
A barrel. Obfolete.
1'» Bom B a'r t>. v. a. [from the noun.] To
attack with bombs.
2.

[In

4..

ment

a workman's term.

:

attempts on Dunkirk* when tbcy endeavoured to bUiw up a tort, and tomiard (he town.

brothers

cools,

.'\

1

I

I

Drydm.
7. Obligation ;

[A fluff of Toft loofe

!

or (hew without folidity.] Fullian ; big
words, without meaning.
Not pedants motley tongue, foldiers hcmhafiy

'

A

perfon bound, or giving fecurity, for
another,

2,

cluded bwtibiiji, unnatural, and mere madncfs, be.
caufc they are not aft'eftcd with their excellencies ?
Dryden.

Are fold for flaves, and their wives for bondfioomer,

i Cor, xii,

13.

BONE, n.f. [ban, Saxon.]
I

.

other by fraall tranfverfe fibres, as thofe
In a foetus they are
of the mufcles.
porous, foft, and eafily difcerned.
As
their pores fill with a fubftance of their
own nature, fo they increafe, harden,
and grow clofe to one another. They
are all fpongy, and full of little ceils ;
or are of a confiderable firm thicknefs,
with a large cavity, except the teeth ;
and where they are articulated, they
are covered with a tiiin and tlrong mem>
brane, called the periofteum. Each bone
is much bigger at its extremity than in
the middle, that the articulations might
be firm, and the bones not eafily put out
But, becaufe the middle of
of joint.
the bone fliould be tlrong, to fuilain its
allotted weight, and refill accidents, the
fibres are there more clofely compafted
together, fupporting one another ; and
the bone is made hollow, and conlcquently not fo eafily broken, as it mull

ftraint

You only have overthrown me, and In my
Sidney.
bondage confills my glory.
Say, gentle princefs, would you not fuppofe
Your bondage happy, to be made a queen ?
be a queen in bondage, is more vile
Than is a (lave in bafe fervility.
Sbakfpeare.
Our cage
make a choir, as doth the prifon'd bird,
And (ing our bondage freely, Shaktjf. Cjmbeline.
The king, when he dclign'd you for my guard,
Refolv'd he would not make my bondage hard, Vryd,

—To

Staitfjp.

We

noife ; report.

How to abate the vigour, or filence the har.bilaand but-

mixt in a due proportion, which will almoft

take off the report, and alfi) the force of the charge,
Brmvn'i Vulgar Erroun.

BoMBv'ciNOus. aifj. [bombycinui, Lat.]
made of filk.
Silken
;

£ONJ ROBA. n. /. [Ital. a fine gown.]
A (hewy wanton.

2.

Obligation ; tye of duty.
If (he has a ftruggie for honour, (he is in a
bondagt to love ; which gives the ftory its turn that
Pofe,
way.
He muft refolve by no means to be enllaved,
and brought under the bondage of obferving oaths,
which ought to vanilli when they Hand in competition with eating and drinking, or taking mo-

Hotiih.
We knew where the hma roha% were, Shuhcff}.
ney,
BONJ-SUS. n.f. [Lat.] A kind of buf- Bo'ndmaid. n.f, [from bond, captive,
falo, or wild bull.
and »»<?/</.] A woman flave.
•

BONCHRE'TIEN. n.f. [French.] A .'pecies of pear, fo called, probably,

from

the name of a gardener.

BOND. a. /.

[bonb. Sax. bound;

written

in

indifferently,

iefxki, bond, or band.
1.

Good fiftcr, wrong me not, nor wrong yourfclf,

To made a bondmaid and a Have of me, Sbaie/p.
Bo'ndman, rt. /, [from ^eW and man,]

have been had it been folid and fmaller.

A man flave,
it

is

many of its
See Band.]

Cords, or chains, with which anyone
bound.

is

my man, both bound together i
Till, gnawing with my teeth my ionii afundcr,
I gsin'd my freedom.
Shahjfeari.
There left me, and

2.

The folid parts of the body of an animal,
made up of hard fibres, tied one to an-

Captivity ; imprifonment ; ftate of re-

1

Bombila'tion. »./. [fiombombus, Lat.]
ttcn of gun^, a way is faid to be by borax

Ben yonfon'i Caialine^

be bond or free.

meaging.

Horribly ftuft'd with epithets of war.

ho:ke.

Bo'ndage. n. f, [from hond.'\

Bo'mbast. adj. [from the fubftantive.]
High foundmg ; of big found without
He, as loving his own pride and purpofe,
Evades them with z hombaji circumftance.

.

fervile Hate.

Donne,

Arc all the flights of heroick poety to be con-

.

from jebonben. Saxon.] Captive ; in a

of government and obedience,

Whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we

Me to hear this.

A

.'
flave.
Carnal greedy people, without fuch a precept,
would have nc mercy tipon their poor bondjmen
and beads.
Derlofr,

1.

:

Bond. adj. [from bind, perhaps for bound;

Are ftrong enough preparatives to draw

i,

Sir y. Dailies,

i

j

Bo'ndswoman, a,/ [from bend undivoman,] A woman flave.
My lords, thu feitators

ftlountcbanks drug-tongue, nor the terms of law.

ter,

I

I

:

texture ufcd formerly to fwell the garment, and thence ufed to fignify bulk

Sound ;

law by which any man is

obliged.
Unhappy that I am I cannot? heave
My heart mto my mouth I love your majcfty
Sh.ik.
According to my Itcndy no more nor lefi,
Take which you pleafc, it difiblves the bofids

for mourning.

I

Sidney*
All her ornaments are taken away ; of a freer
woman (Ve is becomea*5<;r/^<TOt', t Mace. Vi.ti.
Comiiiunly xhe btn.'ijla've ] fed by his lord, but
here tire lord was fed by his bondjlj^e.

Bo'kdsmak. h. /, [from ^cW and man,]

And burdi without a diie, they fay, are void.

yidaijan,

cefs was,

A

writing of oblig.ntion to pay a fum,
or perform a contraft.
-Go with me to a notary, fcal me there
Your Tingle bond.
Shahffeafc.
What if I ne'er confcntto make you mihc j

Bombasi'n. u./. \_bembajin, Fr. from bom-

f.

r'-c,

15

My father's promife ties me not to time;

Genoa la not yet fecur* fiwrn a hmthtrilnnn

tt.

the h'^nd

cracked 't^vixt'fon.ajd father, Shakifp. King Lrar.

6.

J

Bomba'st.

Love enjoined fuch diligence, that no apprchno, no bondjUvey could ever be, by tear,
more ready at all commands than that young prin-

Shaitjftarc.

!

divide, and

King!,

Bo'tiDSLAVE; n./: [from bind 'andJlave,]
A man in flavery ; one pf fervile condition, who cannot change his mailer.

Wedding is grpat Juno's crown ;
Love

A flight filken

Upon thole did Solomon levy a tribute of bondfervice.

; caufe of unioa; link

O blcfl'ediiurf of board and bed

flioot bombs.

Ihiff",

,

of connexion.

'

Lat.]

Levitieui, rev, 3 j,

flavery.

Cement of union

5.

MJiJcn.

ftlken,

And if thy brot-her, that divclleth bjtho*, be

Bon itse'r VICE, »./ [from bond ^.tA fit"vice.] The condition of a bondl'eivant

charge worthy of death, or ai b^ndi, Acii, xjtiii, 29.

BomsaRDi'er. n. f. [from hombard.'\
The engineerwhofc employment it is to

ffrom h«nd and
a fervant without

waxen poor, and be fold unto thee, thou tflialt nit
-1
compel him to ferve .k a btnd-ffrvan/.

'

captivity.

;

;

the liberty of quitting his mailer,

,

Chains; imprifon-

the pIuraL]

n, f.

A flave

jirwan/.]

Whom I perceived to have nothing laid to hi?

their

bydntis,

Code.
,

.

A medal it (Irucic on the Englilh failing in

Bomba'rdment. n. /. [iiom. bombard
An attiick made upon any "city ,'- by'''
throwing bombs int6 it. •

•

Obferve, in \«orkiiig up the walls, that no fide
of the hoaie, nor any part ft the walls, be brought
up tlirce feet abovp the other, before the aexf
adjoining wail be wrought up to it, fo that ihej
miy bf all joined together, and make a good icnd.
Mortimer's Uujhandry.

Tiiey planted in diver; places twelre great'icmtariis^ wlicrcvvith thfy thicw huge lionet into the
air, which, fjlling down into the city, might break

The htmhardkr tolTes his ball fomctimes into the
inidKof a cit)-, with a defign to fill all around him
MJth terro-jr and combullion.
1'tiltr.

Bondie'rvant.

hotfpl, what Itni he can Imagine, to hold thin m'sft

fio'M8AK.n. B. /. \bvmbarJui, Latin.]
1
A great gan ; a cannon : it i» a word

though it is not fo cxpoied as formerly,

BON

BON

BON

Ligament that holds any thing together.
Let any one fend hit contemplation to the extrcoiitica of the univcrfe, and fee what cooceivable

Amongft the Romans, in making of a bondman
wherefore fo great ado
(hould be made ? the maftcr to prefcnt his flave
in fome court, to take him by the hand, and not
only to fay, in the hearing of the publick ma-

Thy bona are marrowlcfs, thy blood is cold.

free, was it not wondered

giltrate,

1 will that this man become free ; but,

after thofc foltmn words uttered,

1

firft

delight of human kind ;

Not that which ^(fli/mm from tiicir maliers 6nd.
Vrjden.

Taller.

h^ne.

4,

A fragment of meat

;

a bone with as

much flefli as adheres to it.

to ftrike him on

the cheek, to turn him round, the hair of his
head to be Ihaved oft", the magiftrate to touch him
thrice with a rod; in the end, a cap and a white
Utok:r.
garment given him,

O freedom

Macbeth.

There was lately a yoon; gentleman bit to the

Like JV.h^'i hnunds contending for the hor.e.

Each pleaded right, and would be lord alone,
Dryden,
3,

To be upon the bones.

To attack.

I'ufs had a month's mind ts be ufon tie benei of
him, but was aot willing to pick a ijuarrcl.

L'ijfraifge,

4-

to

;

.

BON
4.

and forefail of a (hip, when
thefe are too narrow or (hallow to clothe
the malt, or in order to make more way

A.{on of bokbim, midsoi UOtter bones, for weaving bonelace.

in calm weather.

5. B&'ies.

Chambers.

Eo'nnilv. adj. [from ^a;;?yi.]

Dice.

Gayly ;

Gayety ;

handfomenefs ; plumpnefs.

word now almo(t confined

a

is

i .

Hand(bme ; beautiful.
And made a prey for .carrion kites and crows

Bo'nelace. ti.f. [itom bone zni lace; the

Ev'n 01 the l:vny beafl lie lov'd fo well. Shakeffi.
Thus wiil'd the louts inmelancholy ftrain.
Till iomy Sufan fped acrofs the plain.
Gay.

bobbins with which lace is woven being
frequently made of bones.] Flaxen lace,
fuch as women wear on their linen.

2.

The

things ^ou follow, and make fongs on
now, fhould be fent to knit, or fit down to bobbini

or b-^nilace.

Taller.

We deftroy the fynimcir; of the human figure,
and foolilhly contrive to call off the eye from great
and real beauties, to childiih gewgaw ribbantis and
bontlacu

Spe^atar.

Bo'neless. <2^°. [from ^«w.j

fation (oY plumb.

plum.,

Bo'Ny. adj. [from (5ew.]
Confiiling of bor.es.

At the end of tnis h>le ii a membrane, faftened
round hony limb, and ftretched like the I'ead
cf a drum; and tberefoie, by anatomifts, called
to a

Sarg.—v.

bones.
At prefentmjrdcfire is to have a ^ood imefetrrr,
'

tymfavum.
2.

jiiology. Henjhaiu thinks it a corruption
of bull-beef, ridiculoufly ; Skinner imagines it to be derived from hobo, fooli(h,
Spanilh. Junius finds boivbard to be an

Bo'n fire. ft./, [from ion, good, Fr. and

A

fire made for forae publick
cauie of triumph or exultation.
Ring ye the bells to make it wear awjy,

old Scottifh word for a coiuard, a contemptible felloiv ;

iovjbardli not known.]
Ilupid fellow ; a lubber.

'

We

Bo'kgrace. n.f.

have feen her bcfet all over with emeralds
and pearls, ranged in rows about her cawl, her
peruke, her kongract, and chaplet.
I

JiMiiViilfcn PrcvUenri,

[bonet,Fr.']

A covering

for the head ; a hat ; a cap.
Go to them with this hnfiet in thy Iiand,
And thus far having ftrctch'd it, here be with them,
Thy knee bufliiig til-.- (tones; for, in fuch bufirxfs,

A dull, heavy,

An ill-bred boatman, rough as waves and wind.
Prior.

.

V oung mafter next muft rife to fill him wine.
And (larve himfclf to fee the baby dine.
f^'tg.
book;, n.f [boc. Sax. fuppofed from boc,
a beech, becaufe they wrote on beechen
boards ; as liber, in Latin, from the
rind of a tree.]
I. A volume in which we read or write.
See a lank of prayer in his hand

Receive the ftntence of the law for fins.

Such as by God's hi^k are adjudg'd to death. Shak.

the bonmi in their falutacions ; for, in medals,
they (till have it on their hcais.
jiid'iLn.

as frefh as if they

In the coffin that had the bucks, they were found

had been but newly written
;
being written on parchment, and covered over
with watch candles of wax.
Bacon.

A

kind of
ravelin, witho'Jt any ditch, having

a parapet three feet high, anciently
placed before the points cf the (aliani;
angles of the glacis.
Bo'nnet a priijlre, or pricft's cap, ij an

outwork, having at the head thxee faliaat
angles, and two inwards,

Bo'nnet*. [In the fea language.]

Sm.tll

oa the mizzcn.

Ilioki are a fort of dumb teachers; they cannot
anfwet fuddcn quefiions, or explain prefent doubts

this is properly the work of a living inlttuQor.

t.

}.

lyadi.

A particular part of a work.

Book-keeping, n.f. [from book and
The art of keeping accounts, or
keef.l
recording pecuniary tranfaftions, in fuch
a manner, that at any time a man may
thereby know the true ftate of the whole,
or any part of his affairs, with clearnefs
Harris.

Bo'oKBiNDER. n.f. [from book and bind. ]

A man whofe prpfeffion it is to cover

books.
Bo'oKFlTL.a^". [{lombook sxiAfulLI Full
of notions gleaned from book* ; crowded
with Undigefted knowledge.
The boo'ful blockhead, ignorantiy read.
With loads of learned lumber in his head.
With his own tongue ftill edifies his ears.
And always lift"ning to himfelf appears.
Pope,
Bo'oKisH. adj. [from book.'\ Given to
books ; acquainted only with books. It
is generally ufed contemptuoufly.
I'll make him yield the crown,
Whofe boiUjh rule hath puU'd fair England down.
^hakcjpearc.

I'm not bookijh, yet I can read waittog-gentle-

woman in the 'Icape.

Shake/peare's H^inter'i Talc.

Xantippe follows her namcfake ; being married
man, who has no knowledge of th?

to a booHjh

world.

SfcRalar.

Bookle'akned.

adj.
[from book and
Verfcd in books, or literature
a term implying (bme (light contempt.
learned.]

Whate'cr thefe book/earn d blockheads fay,
Solon 's the verieft fool in all the play.
Drydev.
He vwll quote pafiages out of Plato .ind Piiidar,
at his oWn table, to

fome kookiearned companion,

without blulhing.

Skill in liter.lture ; acquaintance with booki : a term of fome contempt.
They miglit talk of boiklearninir what they

would, but he never faw more unfeaty fellows than
great clerks.

Sidih/.

^

Neither does it fo much require heoklearning aiid
good natural fenfe, to diftinguiih
true and falfc, and to difcern what is well proved,
and what is not.
Burners Theory.
fchoiarfliip, as

Bo'okman. n.f. [from hook and«;an.] A
man whofe profclfion is the ftudy of

The firft book we divide into feiSions ; whereof
the firft is th"fc chapters paft.
I'lirnel's Theory.

books.

The regifter in which a trader keeps an

On Navarre and his bookmen

This civil war of wits were much better us'd
;

for here 'lis abus'd.

Shakcjfiare,

account of his debts.

Bo'oKMATE. n.f. [from ^w< and w«w.]

This life
Is aoblcr thaa attending r«r a bauble

Siviri.

Bookle'arning. n.f. [from book and
learning.]

;

True omamcnn to know a holy man. Sbakefpiarc,

A^iun U eloquence.
abahfpearii Coriolanu:,
They had not probably the ceremony of vailing

Bo'nnet. [In fortification.]

To re-

girter in a book.
I befcech your grace, let it be booked with the
reft of this day's deeds ; or I will have it in a particular ballad clfe, with mine own picture on the
top of it.
_
Sbaktjpiare.
He made wilful murder high treafon ; he caufed
the marchers to book their men, for whom they
fliould make anlwcr.
Davits on Ireland..

application to books ; over-ftudioufnefs.

That to-jby i'haon only was unkind.
^

Sermons read they abhor in the church ; but
fermons ivUbout book, fcrmons which fpend their
life in their birth, and may have public audience
but once.
Hooker.

Bo'oKiSHNESs. »./. [bom. bookijh.^ Much

•i...BBt one exception to this faft we find ;

A

[Sonne £raie,Fr.]
forehead- cloth, or covenng for the forehead. Not now ufcd.
Skinner,

from which he natu-

rally deduces booby : but the original of

Sfcnjcr,

How came fo many k-^r.f.ns to be made in queen
Mary'5 days ? Wl.y, flic had abufe^ and deceived
•her penple.
'ttuthi
Full foon by iiw-_^r<, and by liell,
learnt our liege was paffins'v.cll.
Caii

Ruy.

Full of bones.

Bo'oBY. n.f. [a word of no certain ety-

^

And h-.rjirti make all day.

Siv'ift.

BO'NUM MAGNUM, n.f. A fpecies of
1

Mdifoti.

U'ithoM book. By memory; by repetition ; without reading.

and expedition.

Who votes for roanars, who foi hire.

A fractured leg fet in the country by on* pre.

the art of reftoring brokep or luxated

A word ufed in

We fcorn, for want of talk, to jabber
Or pj:tics o'er oM\ bcnny-cUbbir;
Nor are we ituoious to enqui'r.

would, while it was fmiling in my face,
Have pluckt my nipple from hii htmeltft ^ums,

Bo'nesetter.h./; [from boneja.] Achirurgeon ; one who particularly profefTes

,

Ireland for four buttermilk.

I

fp^ifimait's

merry ; frolickfome ; cheerful

Bonny-clabber. »./

.Waiting

other part.

;

blithe.
Tlicn figh not fo, but let them go,
Ar.d be you blithe and 6onny.
Shakefftare.
3. It fecms to be generally ufed in conver-

bones.

And daflit the brains out.
iihah ^peare\
To Bo'neset. -v. n. [from ^o»ir and y>/.]
To rellore a bone out of joint to its
place; or join a bone broken to"t'h«

Gay

5,

To Book. 1;. a. [from the noun.]

Match to match I have encounter'd him.

cooks ioned the veal.

the coiurfcs

It

to the

Scotti(h dialefl.]-

'

tending to tcnijitthg^

"[

BO'NNy. adj. [from bon, bonne, Fr.

j

fails fei on

In kind remembrance.
4. In books.
1 was fo much in hii books, that, at his deceafe»
he left me the lamp by which he ufed to write his
lucubrations.

Bo'nniness. n.f. \\^ova. bonny.

And dext'roufly to tiirow the luck-y fuc
To fhun anlci ace, that Tuept my ftjkcs away
And watch the box, tor tear they fli^-'uld convey
Falle isn«, and put uiu>n me in the play. Drf^rn.
To Bone. f. a. [frotn the noun.] To take
out the bones from the flelh ; as, the

little

Such giin the cap of him that makes thcmJ5ne»
Yet keeps his book uncrofs'd.
Shakeffeare.

handfomely ; plumply.

Buc then my ftudy was to cog the dice.

Bo'nnet. n.f.

Frouier, tfim rttrtling In unpaid-for /ilk ;

itialnfail,

;

_/5'rf.]

3OO

B 0;0

To make no hones. To make no fcruple
a metaphor taken from a dog, who readily (wallows meat that has no bones.

6. Bones.

;

;

:

i

Schoolfellow.
Thit

—

;

;

BOO

;;

;

BOO

B O 'O
BOOR. «./ [beer, Dutch

Thii Armada it a Spaniard that keeps Kkre in

A ploughman

court,

A phanurm, a monarch, and one that makes fport

lout ; a clown.

yShakvpsare*
To the prince and his hooimaut,
Bo'oKSELLER. ti. /. [ffom ^00^ and /i//.]

Bilhop Wilkin

fays, he does not (juedion but
be as ufual fur a man to call for his wings,
when he is going a journey, at it is now to call
for his boon,
Addijon'i CiMtrdUti,

'Ihe bare fenfe of a calamity is called grumbling ; and if a man does but make a face upon tiie
boor, he is prefcntly a maletontent.
L'EJIrangij.
He may live as well as a>b»r of Holland, whole

He wbofe profciTion it is to fell books.
He went to the boikjellery and told Itim in anger,
he had fold a book in which then was fali'e divinity,

Shcw'd him his room, where he mull lodge that
night,
Pull'd o(f his boots, and took away the light. Milt.

jebujie. Sax.]
;
a country fellow ; a

;

it will

A

kind of rack for the leg, formerly ufed
in Scotland for torturing criminals.

2,

cares of growing ftill richer wafte his life. Ttinfle.
To one vvell-born, th' aftront is worfe and m.irc.

fyalion.

:

When he's abus'd and baffled by a bocr, Prydt'n. Boot o/a Coach, The fpace between
Bo'oKWORM. n./. [ftom lotii a.nd iverm ]
the
Bo'oRisH. ec/J. [from boor.] ClowniJh
1. A worm or mite that eats holes in books,
coachman and the coach.

damp.

chiefly when

rullick ;

My lion, like a moth or booi'wcryK, feeds upon

a reader without judgment.

[An Irifli term.]

Ihe can.

Di^.

To fwell and fall together.
Burning o'er his head

The billows doa'd; he '5 number'd with the dead.

a grant ; a benefadlion ; a pre-

fent.
Vouchfafc me for my meed but one fair look
fmaller hatin than this I cannot beg.
And lefs than this, I'm fure, you cannot give.

A

Which

To

2.

Bacon^

The bluft'ring fool has fatisfy'd his will
his

knight has gain'd tlie day.
Dry.Un'i tabUt,

What rhetorick didft thou ufe
To gain this mighty baonr ftie pities me
[ben, Fr.]

:

as,

Thus to hcrfelf (he pleafingly began. Par. L.ft.
I know the infirmity of our family; we play the
i«» crimpaniun, and throw our money awav in
o<" cups-

Arbutbnct.

;

unprofitable ;

unavailing ;

When thofe accurled mefTengers of hell
Canac to their wicked man, and 'gan to tcU
Their bootle/s pains, and ill fucceeding night.
Sfenfer.
.

God did not fuffer him, being defirous of the

light ofwifdom, with baa/efi expencc of travel, to
wander in darknefs.
Hooker.
Boot/eft fpeed,

^

When cowardice purfues, and valour flies.

Sbahjpcare.

O partial deep, give thy rtpofe

Stak,

Let him alone
follow him no more with boot/rft pray'rs
He feeks my life.
Shakijftiirt

I'll

2.

Without fuccefs.
Doth not Brutus boitUfi kneel ?

Shakefteafe.

Thrice from the banks of Wye,
And fandy bott<tm'd Severn, have I fent

Him booiltfs home, and weathcr-heatc.-i back.

Man is Cod's image; but apoor man is

Shakeffeare.

Chrift'sllampfoiso/; both images regard. Hcrbirt.

He might have his mind and manners formed, Bo'oty. n,/, [buyt, Dutch; btitin, Fr.]
1. Plunder; pillage; fpoils gained from
and be inftrutfled to boot in fevei al fclericei L.M:kf,
the enemy.
3. It feems, in the following lines, ufed
One way a band feleft from forage drives

for booty, or plunder.
Others, like loldiers, armed in their (lings,
Makci^ocr Lpon the fummer's velvet buds. Sbak^

BOOT. «./. [bottat, Armorick
flioc,

And heighten'd as with wine, jocund and boctt.

Siviji.

without advantage.

And, in the calmeft and the ftillcit night,
With all applLmces and mcanj to boor,
Shahefprare.
Deny it to a king ?

a boon companion.
Satiate at length,

th« fall of a hc:>th,

Ufelefs

1.

With advantage ; over and

boot.

Canft thou,

!

Gay; merr)'

fair by

Bo'otless. at/J, [from boof.]

To the wet feaboy, in an hour f^ rude; »

yiddifm'i Cam.

Boon. a^lj.

the air beats for vain.

CamMr:,

Much mifcliief will be done at Bartholomew

My gravity.

in the ear, and fay nothing, afked no unprofitable

But loft the prize.

in the fair.

above ; befides.

That courtier, who obtained a i»B of tlie cm^ror, that he might every morning whifper him

His boati is giv'n;

Sbat,

Wherein, let no man hear me, 1 take pride,
Could I, with boot, change for an idle plume.

:

Shakcfpaire*

fuit for himfelf.

be ufed for a fliort time.
The clothierb found m;ans to have all the quell
made of the northern men, fuch as had their h'ji:hs

given to mend the exchange.

Forfook by (hee, in vain I fought thy aid.

;

A houfe built of boards, or boughs, to

That long behind he trails his pompous r«bc ? Po^,
To enrich ; to benefit.
And I will boot thee with what gift bcflde,
That modelly can beg. Stai, A«t, and CUofatra,
Boot, n,/, [from the verb.]
fomething
1. Profit; gain; advantage;

When boow'wg billows clos'd above my head. Pobe,
Boon. n.f. [from bene. Sax. a petition.]

Dryd/n.

Booth, n./. [^W, Dutch; ^wC/fr, Welfli.]

2.

young,

A gift

A i'jjrcrf judge (hall fit to try his caufe.
Not by the (latate, but by martial laws.

The purpos'd end, or here lie fixed all.
What tor.!: it us thcfe wari to have begun ? Fair/,
What boois the regal circle on his head,

A fea

[from ^M/.] In boots ; in

a horfeman's habit.

If we ftiun

term.]

fail

Siuift,

'Zo'ort.D, atij,

who derogate from read-

For what I have, 1 need not to repeat;
And what 1 want, it boott not to complain.

DryJen*

2.

The oilier and the booicatcber ought to partake.

that belief doth ufe to be.wrougbt at the firft in
Hooker,
them, without fermons.

Who took the Dutchman, and who cut the loom,

as a fliip is faid

inn is to puil off the boots of paffengers.

ing, to excufc it, when they fee no other remedy ;
as if their intent were only to deny that aliens and
ftrangcrs from the family of God are won, or

to keep off the enemy.
As his heroick worth Itruck envy dumb,

;

and widening them.

Bo'ot-catcher. «. / [from boot and
catch,] The perfon whofe bufincfs at an

:

It (hall not boot them,

Sea DiiSionary.

trte.'l

to be driven into boots, for ftretching

advantage it is commonly ufcd in thefe modes, it boots, or
to

;

Stakcfftjre.

Two pieces of wood, Ihaped like a leg,

nfihat boots it.

A bar of wood laid acrofs a harbour,

to come booming, when Ihe makes all the

To profit

1.

in the channel, when a country is over-

To rufli with violence

blue lift.

Boot-tree. »./. [from boot and

H* ij* pir-ji brc and bote,
Anb bet bivopen borne.]

and fometlmes the clues of the
mainfail and forefail are boomed out.
3. A pole with bufhcs or bafkets, fet up as
a mark to (hew the failors how to fteer

1.

A ftall for a

as,

fail ;

To Boom. <v. n, [from the noun.

His lacquey with a linen (lock on one leg, and
on the other, gartered with a red and

:

[In fea language]
A long pole uled
to fpread out the clue of the lludding

Shakejpcare.

dalhes.

T» BOOT. 'V. a. [baten, to profit, Dutch
bot, in Saxon, is recompence, repentance, or fine paid by way of expiation ;
boian is, to repent, or to compenl'ate

Spcnfir,

flown.

[from boot and ioje.'^

Stockings to ferve for boots ; fpatter-

cow or an ox.

Boom. «./ [from boom, a tree, Dutch.]

3.

»._/".

a boot-boje

BoosE. n.f. [bofij. Sax.]

'<

young

let us take any man's tiorlcs.

man-

coarfenefs of

ners.

All the Tartaiianb, and the people about tht
'Cafpian Sea, which are naturally Scythians, live
in hordes; being the very fame that the Irilh
t»liei are, driving their cattle with them, and
feeding only on their milk and white meats.

i .

Boot, ho:t, mailer Shallow; I know the

Bo'orishkess.w./ [irom boorijh.] Clownilhnefs ; rullicity ;

To put

king is fick for me :

ner.

Among ihofe venerable galleries and folitary
Iccnes of the univerfity, I wnted but a black
gown, and a falary, to be as mere a boolivcrm as
any ihei-e.
Port's Lcntri^
n.jr.

To Boot. <k. a. [from the noon.]
on boots.

ip

Bo'ORisHLY. atiu. [irom boor ijh.] In a
booriO) manner ; after a clowniib manBoot-hose.

A lludent too clofely given to books

Bo'oLY.

which is,

the vulgar, leave the fociety, which, in tlie bocrijh,
is, company of this female. Shakrfp. jlsycu like it.

nothing but paper, and I Ihall beg of them to diet
him with wholcfome and fubftantial food.
GuarMarii

2.

untaught ; uncivilized.

I'herefore, you ^lown, a'oandon,

I.

Wdfli

;

botte,

;

betes,

A herd of beeves, fair oxen, and fair kine,

a

French.]

he has only caught a Tartar.
VF.Jhangi,
For, Ihould you to extortion be inclin'd.

bt.o!y,

A covering for the leg, ufed by horfemen.
That my leg is too long^

—No; that it
I'll

is

j

Their booty.
Mi!„„,
His confciencc is the hue and cry that purfues
him ; and .when he reckoa:> that he has gotten a

too little.

wear a boot, to make it fomewhat rounder.
Stakc/fearr.

2.

Your cruel guilt will little booty find.
Things gotten by robbery.

DryJrn,

If 1 had a mmd to be honcft, I fee fortune would
not fuflcr me; (he drops hottics in my mouth.
Shakclfcirc.

3.

Ta

;;

heoty.

;

B O R

The French ufe, Je
Iwll
Juis bmi, when they mean to fay,

How oft I crofs'd wiiere c«rt« and coachei roar'4.

Such various ways the fpacious alleys lead.

hurry us another.
light, that
I have fet this argument in the belt
ladies may not think that I ivrite booty. Dryd.
the

ibme other.
And I lor forrow fung.
Hhahflttrt.

That ferve inftead of peaceful barriers,

To part th' engagements of their warriours.

reverence is due, deferves to be branded with folly.

Where both from fide to fide may ficip.
Hud'tbrat.

1.
i

To adorn with a border of ornaments. Bore. n.f. [from the verb.]
To reach to touch to confine upon t. The hole made by boring.
;

Rtileigh.

Congrnii.

Bo'rdrrer. n.f. [from berder.] He that

That may

be bored.
[from borago, Lat.]

A

dwells on the borders, extreme parts,
or confines ; he that dwells next to any
place.

Mtlltr.

The Scythian lamb,
generally known by the name of Jgnus

BORJMEZ. n. /.

Scytbicus,
Much wonder ii made of the boramex, that
ftrange plant-animal, or vegetable lamb of Tartary, wtiich w.-lves delight to feed on j which hath
the ihape of a lamb, afttirdeth a bloody juice upon
breaking, and liveth while the plants be confumcd
Brsws'i ynlgar Errcurt.
about it.
artificial fait,

[bcrax, low Latin.]

An

They of thofe marches, gracious fovereign

niac, nitre, calcined tartar, fea fait, and
alum,diflblved in wine. It is principally
folder metals, and fonietimes an
ufed

w

uterine ingredient in medicine, ^ixcy.
'it./, \_hordeel, Teut.
li
Bo'rdel.
Borde'llo. J Armorjck.] A brothel

bordel.

.

a bav/dy-houfe.
From the bordilk it might come as well.

BO'RDER.

The outer part or edge of any thing.

tend its grtatell clearnefs on the principal figures
dimiiriftiing by degrees, as it comes neait-r and
Drjdtn.
nearer to the b<,rdirt.

2.

Btn ymfon.
company, entered with a great army, though
conlilied of b'^rdircri, being railed fomeBacin.
what fuddcnly.
his

it chiefly

Volga's ftream
Sends oppofite, in Oiaggy armour clad.
Her borMrtrt ^ on mutual flau^htcr bent.

Lmg time in peace his realm ellablilhed.
Of neighbour Scots, and foreign fcatttrlings. SperJ.

in obedience.

Vot. I.

was about a c^uarter of an inch in diameter. Boylu
Our careful monarch Hands in perfon by.
This new-caft cannon's firmneft to explore ;
The ftrength of big-torn'd powder loves to try.
And U ill and cartridge forts for every bore. Dryi.
It will beft appear in the bores of wind inllru*
raents ; therefore caul'e pipes to be made with %.
fingle, double, and fo on, to a fextuplc bore ; an4
mark what tone every one givctb.
BsiVU

The preltrite of bear.
The father bore it with undaunted foul^
Like one who duril his deiliny controul \

Bore.

Yet with becoming grief he bore his part,
Refign'd his fon, but not rcfign'd his heart, Drjii,

By marrying her who bort me.

feptentrional.
Crete's ample fields diminifh to our eye
;

nO'REJS. n.f.

Bo'ree. «./
Bi4t

tioi\s with

the ground.

1 iie fides, and what that fpace contains t' explore.
Vintam.
To hollow.

Take ihc Dlrrelof a long gun, pctfeflly bond,
upright, and take a bullet exactly

fit

for it j and then, if you fuck at the mouth of the
barr'i never fo gently,

.

Born*.

make by piercing.
Thefe diminutive caterpillari arc able, by de-

'i'o

grees, to pierce or bore tbeix way iato a tree, with

Swift,

a borer, fuch as well-diggers ufe to try

Mc>:iiH

The participle paffive of bear.

Their cliargowas always horn by the queen, and
Bacon.
duly paid out of the exchequer.
The great men were enabled to opprcfs their
inferiouis ; -and their followers were horn out and

countenanced in wicked anions.

the bullet \»ill come up (o

forcibly, that it will haiard the ftriklng out your
teeth.
Dighy.

A kind of dance.

Tom was beft at bcnet.

I'o lea.«* or itames ; at leail, to fcarch and hjre

it

Ptft,

The north wind.

Bo'rer. n.f, [from bore.] A piercer;
an inllrument to make holes with.
The maftct-bricklayer mud try all the founds-

The Greeks fiifpedted prefent to commit

and fet

[Lat.]

Uick could neatly dance a jig,

SbjJc-ff'tari:

Mulberries will be fairer, if you bore the trunk
of the tree through, and thrust, into the places
bcrtd, wedges of fome hot trees.
Boon.
Cut Capys, and the graver fort, thought fit

.

Drydtn,

Bo'real. adj. [bcrealis, La.t.J Northern;

Af./lMk.

I'll believe at loon.
This wliole earth may bcior'J; and that the moon

The outer part of a garment,

ilowerj.

The fize of any hole ; the (javity ; tho

And Thrafcias, rend the woods, and fc.is upturn.

I. To pierce in a hole.

Sftnjrr.

generally adorned with needlework, or oinaments.
4. A bank raifed round a garden, and fct
with flowers j a narrow rank of herbs or
},

Mo/eon,
3.

S^reusy and Ca!cas, and Argeftas loud.

To BORE. 01. a. [bonian. Sax.]

It a prince keep hit rcfiJelic* on the lardrrof his

remote part* will rebel j bu: if he
make the centre his feat, be Ihall eafily keep them

So fliall that hole befit for &e file, or fquare bore.

Before the boreal blafts the vcffcls fly.

Yet oft annoy 'd with lundry bordrjgingt

confine.
tlie

bored.

'Twas my fate
To kill my father, and pollute his bed

Philipi.
They rend their countries.
To Bo'rdrage. v. n. [from border.'\ To
plunder the borders.
Not in ufe.

The march or edge of a country ; the
Jominioni,

SttJkefp.

The king of Scots in perfon, with Perkin in

May through clie c?-ntre creep.

Milton,

The inftrument with which a hole i*

hollow.

!

An ordinary horfe will carry two facks of land j
and, of fuch, the bordereri on the fea do bellow
fixty at lead in every acre} but moft hnlbands
Carrw.
double that number.
The eafieft to be drawn
To our fociety, and to aid the war
The rather for their feat, being next borJ'rirl
On Italy; and that they abound with horfe.

They have looking-gUlfts bordered with broad
bwdtrt ol cryftal, and great counterfeit precious
Boctn.
ftonet.
The light mull ftrike on the middle, and ex-

Dilated, and infuriate.

2.

We took a cylindrical pipe of glafs, whofe iort

Our inland from the pilfering borderers^

Ben -Jonjtn.

Making even his own houfe a ftew, a bordd,
and a fchool of Icwdnefs, to irfKi vice into the
South.
unwarv ears of his poor chiHrcn.
n.f. {bord. Germ, bord, Fr.]

Into hollow engines long and round,'

Thick ramm'd, at tb' other bort witli touch of fire

Shall be a wall fufficient to defend

prepared from ial amnra-

The fpiul, or piithatch.

;

you "re an abfo-

lute boracbio.

J.

2.

D' ye think my niece

Bo'rable. a<^'. [from tore.]

Is when a

horfe carries his nofe near the ground.

to be contiguous to.
Sheba and Kaamah are thofe parts of Arabia,
which border the fea called the Perfiaii gulf.

will ever endure fuch a boracbio !

BO'RAX. n.f.

To Bore, v, ». [with farriers.]

To Bo'r dek.. "v. a.

drunkard.

plant.

But boring to the weft, and hov'ring there.
With gaping mouths they draw prolifick air. Orydt

Ti/lotfon.

BORA'CHIO. n.f. [ierracho. Span.] A

n. /.

Thofe milk paps.

Nor fuuthward to the raining regions run j

All wit, which border: upon profanenefs, and
makes bold with thofe things to which tlie greatcft

Rivers,

•

a certain

That through the window bars bore at men's eye*.
Are not within the leaf of pity writ. Shakefpiare^

To approach nearly to.

2.

toward*

point.

jidd'^on.

coin.

That luch a king (hould play htptif.

To pufli forward

2.

Virtue and honour had their temples bordering on
each other, and are fometimet both on the Cime

Then they for fudJen jOy did weep.

Bo'race.

an inch wide, or half ui inch, cot to btrt a hoje
Hfininit
of a foot.

elfe at the fide or edge : with upon.
It borderelh upon the province of Croatia, which,
in time paft, had continual wars with the Turks
Kmlles.
garrifons.

if frighted, or with the purpofe to fright

There the devil plays at bifnf, puts out his
horns to do mjfchief, then ihrinks them back
Drydn.
for fafety.

Cij.

•

1.

Bope'ep. »./. [from ^0 and /«•/».] The
as
aft of looking out, and drawing back

And only encounter at bofup.

What riot* ictn, what buftling crowds I bor'd,

My doubtful mufe knows not what path to tread. To Bore. v. ».
IValUr.
1
To make a hole.
To Bo'rder. -v. ». [from the noun.]
A man may make an inftrument to hire « hole
To confine upon; to touch fomething

L'Eftrarge.

And go the fouls among.

Confider, reader, what fatigues I've knowBi

All with a bordtr of rich fruit-trees crown'd,

Whofe loaded branches hide the lofty mound

We

Roy,

To pierce ; to break through.

4.

Of every flower and herb there fet in order. Sfifijir.

not go.
underftand what vre ought to do ; but whtn
we dclibtratc, we flay booty againU ourCelves : our
le way, our corruptions
confciences direft ut

wMch, after thejf ite foUy ««•

tered, grow together.

From bed to bed, from one to other bordrr ;
And takes furvey, with curious fanfy eye,

»n intent to lofe.

!

"

tery ("mall holes ;

T!i«re he arriving, round about doth flf

To play di(honeftljr, with

How you ftink of wine

.

B O R

B O R

m To flay

:

:

Dmia.

Upon fame occafions, Clodius may be l>oId and
infolcnt, born away by his pajlion.

To

Born.

Swijr,

[derived from,
the word To bear, in the fenfe of bringing
be

-v.

». paj'.

forth : as, zny mother bort

me twenty

.

:

;

!

years ago 5 or, I was iorit twenty years
ago-]
I.

To come into life.
When »c arc hrv, we cry, that we arc come
To this grf ftage of fools.
Shatrffearr.
;it

The new hm babe by nurfei overlaid. Urydai,
Nor nature's law with fruitlcfs forrow mourn,
Sot die, O mortal man for thou waft barn. Prkr.

•

Then he faid, go, borrctu thee ttffels »br«i<i
» Kingiof all thy neighbours.
'Where darknefs and furptiie made concjucrt
cheap
'Where virtue iornviej the arms of chance.
Dryder.
And ftnick a random blow !
_
take fomething belonging to ano3.

A borrciu'd title haft tliou boujiit too dear

The Ilranger, that dwellech with you, fliall be
unto you as me item among you, and thou Oialt
io\'e him as thyfcir.

to things.

cumftances : as, he was iom a prince ;
he was 6orn to empire he was ioni for
:

greatnefs : that is, formed at the birth.

%i..

Yet man is htrm unto trouble, as the fparlcs fl)
y°t>.

A friend lovech at all times, and a brother

Provirbi.
Itrn for aHcrfiry.
Either of you knights may we!! defcrve

A princefs horn

and fuch is Ihe you fei ve. Drjd.
Two tifing creils his royal head adorn;
JBorn from a god, himfelf to godhead born* Dryiitn^
Both muft alike from heaven derive their light;
Thefc bcin to judge, as well as thul'c to write. Fife,
For all mankind alike ret^uire their grace;
Popi.
All kern to want; a miferable race
1 was barn to a good cftatc, although it now
tutneth to little account.
Swift.
Their lands are let to lords, who, never deGgned
to be tenants, naturally murmur at the payment of

Go not my horfe the better,
muft become a borrower of the night
Shaieffeare.
For a dark hour or twain.
But you invert the cov'nants of her truft.

ever,

without etymology.]

-J.

a.

[iorgen,

appearance of land ; and, the next day, we might
plainly difcern that it was a land flat to our fight,

The fourth privilege of friendlhlp.is that which
is

and banqueting
landfkips and
bofctge, and fuch wild works, in open terraces, or
Wottcn.
funimcr houfes.
Cheerful paintings in

rooms; graver ftories

South.
She, who was 3 hofom-friend of her royi\ miftrefs,
he calls an infolent woman, the worft of her fex.

feaftiiig

in galleiics ;

Bo'sKY. adj. [bofque, Fr.] Woody.
And with each end of iliy blue bowdoft crown
My bcfiy acies, and my un/hrubb'd down. Sbak.

BO'SOM. n.f. [bo)-me, bofom. Sax.]
Dutch; 1. The embrace of the arms holding any
2.

j4ddifott.

To Bo'soM. v. a. [from the noun.]
1.

To inclofe in the bofom.
Bofm up my counfel;
You'll find It wholcf>me.
JSbakefpcart.
1 do not think my fifter fo to feek,
Or fo unprincipled in virtue's book.

And the fwcet peace that bofjms guodoefs ever.
Milton.

2.

To conceal in privacy.
The groves, the fcu'tiins, and the flnw'rs.

thing to the breaft.

That opcB now their choiceft boftm^ fmclls,

The breaft

Relerv'd for night, and kept for thee in ftore,

;

the heart.

Our good old friend,
Lay comforts to your lofin ; and bcftow

and fwore he would pay him again when he was

We have hormiitd money for' the king's tribute,
and that upon our lands and vineyards, Nehemiah.
afk of another the ufe of fomethiug
2.

A hojom-fecret, and a bofom-friend, arc

ufually put together.

The reprefentation of woods.

2.

here fpccified in t-e text, a communication of

fecrets.

Bacon.

dark.

He bomteed a box of the ear of the Englilhman,

for a time.

Clarendon.

and full of bo/cage, which made it fliew the more

:

To

Ben yonfon.

He fent for h\% hofom -friends, with whom he moft

Sfenfr.

Shakefftart.

the reidieft helps

To betray the heady huibands, rjb the eafy.

Pf»-

i know each land, and every alley green.
Dingle, or bufliy dell, of this wild wood.
And every bofly bourn from fide to fide. Milton.

bopjian. Sax.]
J, To take fomething from another upon
credit oppofed to lend.

able.

me

;

confidently confulted, and (hewed the paper to
them ; the contents whereof he could not conceive.

Of heaven to dcemen fo
Howbe I am but rude and borrel.

re BO'RROW.

Sbakeffeare.

Thofc domeftick traitors, bcfim-tbiev.-s.

Whom cuftora hath cali'd wives

We bent our courfe thither, where we faw the

Siker thou fpeak'ft like a lewd forrcl,

Yet nearer ways I know.

This Antonio,
Being the bofosn^lcver of my lord,

Muft needs be like my lord.

Wood, or woodlands.

1.

Pofe.

A mean fellow.

confidence; fondnefs.
No more that Thane of Cawdor ih.ill deceive
Out ifom- interefl ; go, pron )unce his death. Sbai.

Bo'scAGE. n.f. [iofcage, Fr.]

Sfenfer,

by Juniui

none of my creditors have challenged

for it.

Sbak.

Bosom, in compofition, implies intimacy ;

Some fay, that I am a great borrower!, how-

Bo'rough Englifh, is a cuftomary defcent

[it is explained

Paradije Lofl,

10. Inclination ; defire.
Not ufed.
If you can pace your wildom
In that good path that 1 could wilh it go.
You (hall have your bof-.m on this wretch.

ufes it as his own.

A town with a corporation.

Bo'rrel. ». /

:

He that takes what is another's, and

and as the old laws

Ctnvull.

Whofe age has charms in it, whofe title more.

With that which you receiv'd on other terms.
Milton.

that is, a franchifed
but a main pledge of an hundred free pcr-

his youngeft brother.

kindnefs ; fa-

To pluck the common bofoms on his fide. Sbak.
To whom tlie great Creator thus reply 'd
O Son, in whom my foul hath chief delight.
Son of my bofom. Son who art alone
My word, my wifdom, and effeflual might

And hardily deal, like an ill borrower.

ftill ufe, is nnt iborougb town,

of lands or tenements, whereby, in all
plac«s where this cuftom holds, lands
and tenements defcend to the youngell
fon ; or, if the owner have no iflue, to

The tender affeftions ;
vour.

Sidney.

I

as, the

;

iofomofxhe earth ; the iofom of the deep.
9.

Neither a Icrrower nor a lender be
For loan oft lofes both itfelf and friend,
And borrowing dulls the edge of huibandry. Sbek.

2.

And if a borough chufe him not undone.

y^,/,,

Any receptacle clofc or fecret

8.

His talk is of nothing but of his poverty, for fear
belike left 1 (hould have proved a young borrciver.

Bo'rough. n.f. [bophoc, Saxon.]
1. It fignified anciently a furety, or a

that is, for alTurancc and warranty.

The

:

being born of ray father's firft wife,, and Ihe
9f his third, Ihe converfcs with me rather like a
daughter than a fifter.
Tatkr.

ibme fpeechcs, as Chancer faith, St. 'John to Boroh ;

n. f.

Shakeffiare.
The borrow of a week.
Bo'r ROWER, n.f. [from iormtv.]
He that borrows ; he that takes money
1
upon truft oppofed to lender.

]

town ;

If I covered my tranfgreffion as Adam, by hiding my iniquity in my bofim,

and his embrace to (hun. Dryd.

Yec of your royal prcfence I'll adventure

;

fons, therefore called a free borough, or, as you fay,
yraneplcgium. For hortb,'^n old Saxon, fignificth a
pledge or furety : and yet it is fo ufcd with us in

The breaft, as the receptacle of fecrets.

7.

[from the verb.]
thing borrowed.

Be bloody, bold, and refolute ; laugh to fcorn
for none c/" woman bom
Shaluffeare.
Shall harm Macbeth.

it,

Lamentations.

There they alike in trembling hope repofc.
The bo/cm of bis father and his God.
Grjy,

Itatts,

To ufe as one's own, though not be-

Bo'rrow.

mother.

I

Their foul was poured out into their mother's
hofom.

Unkind and cruel, to deceive your fon

Swift.

The breaft, as the feat of tendernols.

6.

Or draw his frailties from their dread abode

Inioirsiii'i/fliapcs,

!

Ajdifiin.

\

Here ading bofcms wear a vifage gay.
And ftlfled groans frequent the ball anJ play. Toung,

membrance ; for, having riches of their own, they

longing to one.

3. It has ufually the particle e/ before the

man bound for others.
A borough, as here ufe

That with mix'd tumult in thy bfom fwell'd.

When firft thou faw'ft thy braveft troops lepell'd

No further feek his virtues to dlfclofe.

4.

leuts, as a fubfervicncy they were not birn to.

The pow'r of man

!

Some perfons of bright parts have narrow re-

;

!

Hooker.

The pangs of rage, of forrow, and of ihame,

Locke.

are not felicitous to borroia.

is

matter indilfeient, either to

Anger rcfteth in the bofoiis of fools.
Ecc/ef,
Fiom jealoufy's tormenting ftrife
For ever be thy bofm freed.
Prior.
Unfortunate Taliard O, who c.in nime

?

They may borrvw fomething of Inftruflion even
Decay of Phty.
from their part guilt.
I was engaged in the tranflation of Virgil, from
whom I have borrotviJ only two months. Drydcn.
Thcle verbal figns they fometimes borrmu from
Others, and fometimes make theoifelvcs ; as one
may obferve among the new names children give

it a

The breaft, as the feat of the paiHonf.

5.

Shakejfeare-

3. It is ufually fpoken with regard to cir-

upward.

muft not think

yield, or not to yield, obedience.

;

Why didft thou tell me that thou wert a king

compafs { embrace.

Unto laws thus received by a whole churcti,
they which live within the byom of that church,

To

All tliat are tern into the world are furrounded
with ioJiti, that perpetually and divetlly affcit
thom.
Ls. *!•.

Leviticus, xix.

4. Inclofure j

ther.

!

S.

BOS

BOS

B O R

;

!

3.

Your needful counfcls to our bufmcires. Sbolrfp.
The folds of the drefs that cover the
breaft.

Put now thy hand into thy bojtm ; and he put his
hand into his tojom: and when he took it out, behold lu< hwd was icptous as fnow. Mxtdus, iv, 6.

Paradfi Lofl.
Tow'crs and battlements it ft.es,
Bofotnd high in tufted trees,
Where perhaps fome beauty lies.
The cynofurc of neighbouring eyes. Mitten.
To happy convents, hofom'd deep in vines,
Where (lumber abbots, purple as theirwincs. Pope.

Boson

.

n.f. [corrupted from boatftMain-.']

Th«

.

.

BOX
[bcffe,

This ivory, intended for the UJftt of a bridlt,
was laid up for a prince, and a woman of Caria or
Vcft.
Maeoaia dyed it,
1. The part fifing in themidftof any thing.
He runnetli upun him, even on his neck, upon
Jii, xv. s6.
the thick UJjh of his bucklers.

A thick body of any kind.
on the laths, or on a ladder, in which the liboun r
puts the mortar at the britches of the tiles, hhxcn.
If a clofc appulfe be made by. the lips, then i>
to the
framed
j if by the bofi of the tongue

M

Holder,

BoTS. n.f. [nuithout ajingular.l A fpecies
of fmall worms in the entrails ofhorfes ;
anfwering, perhaps, to the a/carides in

.

human bodies.

Yet, making here a perfeft botch,
Thrufts your poor vowel from his notch.

Peal'e and beans are as dank here as a dog,

Swift.

To Botch, v. a. [from the noun.]
1. To mend or patch clothes clumfily.

Sbakefpecire»

A fmall veffel of glafs, or other matter,
with a narrow mouth, to put liquor in.
The fliepherd's homely curds.

1

Dtyden,

torn.

To mend any thing awkwardly.

2.

To botch up what th' had torn and rent.
Hudilras.

Religion and the government.

To put together unfuitably, or unfkilfully ; to make up of unfuitable pieces.
Go with me to my houfe.
And hear thou there, how many ftuitlefs pranks
This ruffian hath butcb'd up, that thou thereby

May fmile at this.

Shaieffeaie.

Her fpecch is nothing.
Yet the un.liaped ule of it doth move

Any ftone that has a projefture, and is

The hearers to coUcftion they aim at it.
And botch the words up fit to their own thoughts.
;

laid in a place in a building to be after-

His cold thin drink out of his leather bottit,
Sbakcjf>eart„
Is far beyond a prince's delicates.
Many have a manner, after other men's fpeech,
to fliake their heads.
A great officer would fay,
it was as men Ihake a ioti/e, to fee if there wa»
Baconm
any wit in their heads, or no.
Then if thy ale in glafs thou wouldft confine.
King,
Let thy clean bottle be entirely dry.
He threw into the enemy's (hips earthen boltlei
filled witii ferpents, which put the crew in diforder,
Arhuthnot 01 Coins»

A quantity of wine ufually put into a

2.

Shakejftearc.

wards carved.
I. Ruftic wbrk, which confifts of ftones,
which feem to advance beyond the
naked of a building, by rcafon of indentures or channels left in the joinings : thefe are chiefly in the corners of
edifices^ and called ruftick quoins.
Builder's Dia.

bottle ; a quart.
Sir, you Ihall llay, and take t'other bottle.

For trcafon botcb'd in rhime will be thy banej

Rhime is the ruck on which thou art to wreck.

Spe&ator.

Dryden.
4.

A quantity of hay or grafs bundled up.

3.

To mark with botches.
Young Hylas, boici'd

Methinks I have a great defire to a bottU of
hay ; good hay, fweet hay, hath no fellow, Sbak*
But I iliould wither in one day, and pafs
To a lock of hay, that am a bottle of grafs. Donne*

witli ftains too foul to

name.
In cradle here renews his youthful frame. Garth.

Bo'tcher. «. /. [from boicb.']

A men-

To Bo'ttle.

der of old clothes ; the fame to a taylor
asit* cobler to a fhoemaker.

Bo'svEL. n.f. A fpeciej of crinufoot
Bota'mcal.7 adj. [from ^nrin, an

He was

prentice

a botcher's

in

Paris,

and

that is the next way to give poor jades the ^ofi.

BO'TTLE. n.f. {bouteiUe, Fr.]

Their coats, from botching newly brought, are

Bo'ssAGE. «./. [in architefture.]
I.

cences, or fmall knobs, yellow, bluilh, and purple;
IVoodivttrd,
all of a Ihining metallick hue^

A place in any BritJIh name

3.

A hcji made of wood, with an iron hook, to hang

palate, near the throat, then K.

The outfide is thick fet with botryoii efflore<l

part,

adventitious

adfcititious,

A

Fr.]

reft of the work ; a fliining prominence.
What fignifies beauty, ftrength, youth, fortune,
embroidered furniture, or gaudy icjii ? VEjlrange.

J.

B O f

If both thofe words are not notorious botches,
I am deceived, though the French tranllator thinks
D:ydenotherwife.
comm:j ne'er could claim

A ftud; an orn -nent raifed above the

1.

.

clumfily added.
Dryden.

The ling'ring lad's delay.

An

J.

His whirtle takes, to check and chide

Boss. K./.

.
:

B O T

The barks upon the billosvs rldCf
The tnifttr will not ftay ;
The merry bofm from his fide

_,

,

;

1/. a.

[from the noun.]

Ta

inclofe in bottles.

You may have it a raoll excellent cyder royal,

from

to drink or to bottle.

Mortimer*

Bota'nick. 3 herb.] Relating to herbs;
fltilled in herbs.

whence he was whipt for getting the Iheriff 's fool
Sbakejfeare.

immediately before you begin ; but be furc not t*

Some botar.kal criticks tell us, the poets have

Botchers left old cloaths in the lurch,
Afid fell to turn and patch the church. Itudrbras.

Bo'ttle is often compounded with other

not rightly followed the traditions of antiquity,
in metamorphofing the fillers of Phaeton into

Bo'tanist.

71.
f.
ikilled in plants ;

The uliginous ladlenus matter, taken notice of
ot

IVowixuard.
Then fpring the living herbs, beyond the power

corals.

Thomfoti.
Of icIMift to number up their tribes.
BoTANO'l.OOY. n. f. [^orafoXoyia.] A

difcourfe upon plants.

Diil.

BO'TANY. n.f. [from Borin, an herb.]
The fcience of plants; that part of na-

A

BOTA'RGO. n. f. \botarga. Span.]
relifhing fort of food, made of the rocs
of the mullet fiih ; much ufed on the
coafts of the Mediterranean, as an inChambers.
centive to drink.
BOTCH. «. f. [boxza, pronoanced botza,

Corjctll.

two.

been the diverfion of his friends,

Siancy.
he was kept by our paiiy.
Mrifcs and the prophets, Chrift and hli apoHlcs,
wi-.rc in their times jII preacht-rs of God's truth j
fomc by ward, fomc by writing,', fome by both.
Hxitr.
Which of them IhallT take ?

And all hit people.

Milton.

It provet far more incommodious, which, if it
iffvre propelled in boils, botchit^ or ulcers, as in the

fcurvy, would rather conduce to health,

llamey.

A part in any work ill finifhed, fo as to
appear worfe than the reft.
With him,

To Itive no rubs or hotchei in the work,
Fluaic, hit Ton, mull cmbrice tbc fate. Sheitjp.

Germ.]
I.

z.

The lowed part of any thing.
The ground under the water.

,

Shallow brooks lliat flow'd (o clear.

The bottom did the top appear.
Dryjem*
3. The foundation ; the ground-work.

On ttiis fuppolition my reafonings proceed, .in4

Both ? on-- ? or neither neither can br enjoy'd.
Shahffeare.
If ia'i remain alive.
Two lovers cannot IHare a finglc bed
.'

As therefore bah arc equal in d.:grec,

and bUins oiuft all hit flelh Imbofs,

Addijon,

[cyanus, Lat,J

BO'TTOM. H.f. [bocm, Saxon j beJem,

And the next day, hoth tnoming and afternoon,

The lot of both he left tu dcrtiny.

And, plodding on, mult make a calf an ox.
Donne.
Hath made a lawyer.

a drinking-

of ufc.]
A plant,
A compenfation or amends for a man Bo'ttlescrevv, n.f, [from bottle and
flain, which is bound to another. Ctnuell.
fcretsj.] A fcrew to pull out the cork,
2. It was ufed for any payment.
A good butler always breaks off tiie point of
his bottlcftre^v in two days, by trying which tu
Both. adj. [batu, batpa, Sax.] The
h.irdell, the point of the (crew, or the neck of tl c
two ; as well the one as the other. Ei
bottle,
S-wiJl.
run isf Vaiitre, Fr. It is ufed only of

A fwelling or eruptive difcoloration of
the ikin.
Time, which rots all, and makes hticlci \ox,

2.

bottle-friend,

1.

Ital.]

JScicbti

as,

friend; bottle-companion.
Sam, who is a very good boltle-ctimfanion, hat

And thofe biles did run— fay fo—'Did not the
general run ? Were not that a botchy fore ? Shake/.

to vegeta-

bles.

1

Sivijim

Bote. n. /. [bote. Sax. a word now out Bo'ttle-plower, n.f.

by that diligent hitanifi, was only a colledlion

which relates

words ;

botches.

[from botany."] One
one who (ludies the

various fpecies of plants.

hillory

drain them.

Bo'tchy. adj. [fiom boicJ!).] Marked with

Aldifcn.

poplars.

tural

with child.

When wine is to be bottled off, walh your bottlea

cannot be affefted by- objections which arc far
from being built on the fame bottom.
Aiterbuij,
4.

A Venus and a Helen have been feen
Both pcrjur'd wives, the g'>ddcfs and the queen.
.

tonj.

Hill to be fecn the ioarks of ancient edifices.

[from the adjeftive.] h& vvell

Addijon on itely.
Equal convexity could never be feen : the inhabitants of fuc^ an earth co<ild have only the profpcct c'f a little circular plain, which would appear
to have an acclivity on all fides ; fo that every
man woufd fancy himlelf the lowrft, and that he
always dwelt and moved In a bott^tn,
Battlrf,

has the conjun&ion and to correfpond
with it.

A ^r-at multitude both of the Jews and alfo of
ARi.

Milton,
Pow'r to judge AcT^j quick and dead.
Both the b:>y was worthy fi be prais'd.
And Stimichon has often made me long
Dryden.
1 o hear, like him, fo fweet a fong.

Bo'tryoid.

etdj.

[^oVsiiJus]

the forai of a bunch of grapei.

Having

a valley ; a low ground.

Shakejpearf,

it

the Creeks bi;iicved.

;

On both the ffiC/res of that fruitful botun, are.

C?riT-a'i//

Both

A dale

Jn the purlieus Hands a liioep-cote,
Welt of this place; down in the Deighbour^nrrim.

Drjdtn.

5.

The part moft remote from the view j
the decpcft part.
His piopoUlt and arguments flinnld with ft«
*
dam be citaittijied to the ^tttton, that, M there
'

,

£c *

a s

•

;

;

.

.

B O T

B O U

My miftake Sa xhtai, no body mtj b* mS/M

out a bottom ; fathomlefs.
Wicked ni:l« may well be compared to a botlomlifs

Bound i limit.
But there

'•

no littUH, none,

In my Toluptuaufncfs.

falling, than, being fallen, to give one's felf

man's capacity, whether deep ox

(lay

flial-

how fubjed we old mea are

:

to King*

SbakeffKare*

The laft refort ;

i.

the

n, f,

commerce.] The adl of borrowing
money on a (hip's bottom ; that is, by
engaging the veflel for the repayment

«ellentcounfcU, in which he divl nor appear. Addij'

of it,

h (hip

;

A bawbling veHel was he captain of,
^itb which I'uch fcacchlul grapple did he make
With the raoft nuble hitlt'jm of our fleet. Shakejf.

My

voyage, he is to repay the money lent,
with a certain premium or interelt agreed on ; and this on pain of forfeiting

ventures are not in one hmtem tnilted
Siakef/xare,

We have memory not of ore ihip that ever
returned, and but of thirteen perfons only, ac fevcral times, that chofe to return in our bottimu

pear.

That, when his Jhip is finking, will not
Unlade his hopes into another bottom,
Denbam*
He puts to fea upon his own bottom ; holds the
ivm himlielf ; and now, if ever, we may expect

To BoucE.T'. ». \_bouge, Fr.] Tofwellout.

Narris*
new difcovcrics.
He fprcadj his canvas, with his pole he fleers,

An arm or large (hoot of a tree, bigger

A chance ;
hazard.

an adventure ;

le.

fiate

malt ; called alfo a ivervil,

11.

And at his feet their laurel bought did throw.
Fairy Slueen,

From the bough
She gave him of that fair enticing fruit.

Bacon.

Under fome fav'rite myrtle's ihady boughs.

Silkworms finilh their hottmtt in about fifteen

12.

They fpeak their paffions in repeated vows.

Mortimer,

Rofcommon,
See how, on every bough, the birds exprefs.
In their fweet notes, their happinefs.
Dryden,
'Twas all her joy the ripening fruits t» tend.
And fee the boughs with happy burdens bend. Pope,

Prior,

Bottom efa lane. The loweft end.

13. Bottom of beer.
dregs.

The grounds, or

Bought, pijter. and fart idfit of To buy

To build upon ; to fix upon as a fupport : with on.
They may have fomething of obfcurity, as be-

ing bottcmid upiti, and fetched from, the true nature of the thingt.
Hale.
Pride has a very ftrong foundation in the mind
St is bottomed ufon felf-lovc.

A twift

Fairy li^ueen.

Of linked fwe!tnefs, long drawn out.

Theiefore, as you unwind your love for him,
Left it ihouid ravel, and be good to none,
You muft provide to bottom It on me. Shakefpeare,

90 Bo'ttom. v, it. To reft upon, as its
ultimate fupport.
Find out u[:on what foundation any propofitlon
advanced, bottoms ; and obferve the intermediate
ideas, by wliidi

it

is

joined to chat foundation

upon which it is ereQed.

Locke,

Bo'ttom ED. aJj, [from iottom,] Having
a bottom

:

it is

ufually compounded.

There being prepared a number of ^at-bcttomed
Voats, to tranfport the land-forces, Mutcr t^e wing

and fioccAioa o( (iK £tcat savjf.

Mihui.

The bounce burft ope the door ; the fcom'iil fair
Drydim
fudden crack or noife.

A

2.

What cannoneer begot this lufly blood ?
He fpeaks plain canno'n tire, and fmoke, an4
bounce ;

He gives the balllnado with his tongue. Shakejf,
Two hazel-nuts I threw into the flame,

.

And to each nut I gave a fwcetheart's name;
This with the loudeft bounce me lore amaz'd.
That in a flame of brightefl colour blaz'd. Gay,
A boaft; a threat: in low language.

3.

Bo'uNCER. n.f. [from bounce.] A boafter;
a bully ; an

empty threatener : in col-

loquial fpeech.

BOUND, n. /. [from bin^.]
1. A limit; a boundary; that by which
any thing is terminated.
Illimitable ocean ! without bound.

Without dimenfion j where length, breadth, aod
height.

And time, and place, are loft.

Milton.

Thofe vaft Scythian regions ivere feparated by
the natural bounds of rivers, lakes, mountains,
woods, or matlhes.
Temple,
Indus and Ganges, our wide empire's bounds.
Swell their dy'd currents with their natives
wounds.
Drydea,

Immortal verfe.

Which flaming Phlegethon furrounds,
Sad Orpheus fought his confort loft.

Pope.

A limit by which any excuriion is re-

2.

ftrained.
Hath he fet bounds between their love and me ?
I am their mother, who fhali bar me from them i
Shakefpeare,
Stronger and fiercer by reftraint he roars.

Milton.

And knows no hound, but makes his pow'r hii

The flexure of the joints is not the fame in ele-

Any bounds made with body, even adamantine

phants as in other quadrupeds, but nearer unto
thofe of a man ; the bought of the fore-legs not directly backward, but laterally, and fomewhat inward.
Brovin^s l^ulgar Errours.

walls, are far from putting a flop to the mind, in

A flexure.

2.

fhores.

its

3.

progrefs in fpacc.

[from To bound, v. ».]

Derham,

Locke,

A leap j S"

jump ; a fpring.

BOU'ILLON.

Uo but note a wild and wanton herd,
Or race of youthful and unhandled colts.
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing, and neighing

Bo'uLDER Walls. [In architcfture.] Walls

The horfcs fVarted with a fudden bound.
And flung the rc'ws and chariot to the ground.

n. f.
[French.] Broth;
foup ; any thing made to be fupped : a
term ufed in cookery.

Shakefpeam.

loud.

built of round flints or pebbles, laid in

a flrong mortar ; ufed where the iea
has a beach caft up, or where there are
Builder's DiSiionary.
plenty of flints.
Tff

BouLT. v. 0.

See TV Bolt.

'

Through all th' infernal bounds.

a link ; a knot.
His huge long tail wound up iij hundred folds,
Whofe wreathed boughts whenever he unfolds.

j^tterbury.

twill

Shakefpeare.

RelentieH look'd.

;

Such as the melting foul may pierce,
In notes, with many a winding bought

to

Sivift.

A ftrong fadden blow.

1

[from To ^aw.]

Ing, ire but a p.irt ; fomething is left out, which
ibould go into the reckoning.
Lcckr.
Action is fuppofed to be bottomed upon principle.

To wind upon fomething ;
thread round fomething.

another

;

To Thefcus muil be wedded.

;

And thick entangled knots adowa does Hack.

Collier.

S'iuift.

Forlboth the bouncing Amazon,
Your bufkin'd miflrefs, and your warriour love,

Pope,

Bought. »./
1

^

to bully ; a fenfe only uled
in familiar fpeech.
5. To be bold, or ftrong.

But with their blood their country's fafety bought.

The grounds upon which we bottom our reafun-

%.

To boaft

4.

which fee.
The chief were thefe who not for empire fought.

Vo Bo'ttom. V, a. [from the noun.]
1.

my light,

Juft as 1 was putting out
bouncis a; hard as he can knock.

Mili^n.

As the dove's flight did guide i^neas, now
May thine conduft me to the golden bough, Denh,

This whole argument will be like bottoms of

£ach Chriftmas they accounts did clear.
And wound their bottom round the year.

Away the hare with double fwiftncfi fled.
To make a fadden noife.

Their lord and patron loud did him proclaim.

A ball of thread wound up together.

days.

.

a branch of the lame bough, and tied it about the
place broken.
Sidney.

SpcClator,

thread, clofe wound up.

3

Diil.

A vine-labourer, finding a bough broken, took

were too much to venture in one bottom. Clarendon,
We are embarked with them on the fame bottom, and muft be partakers of their happinefs or

,

S-wifti

Out bovnc'd tlie maftiff of the triple head

than a branch, yet not always dilUnguiihed from it.

of

^jAdiftn,

They bounce from their nefl,

No longer will tarry.

Bough. »./. [boj, Sax. the^;^ is mute.]

He began to fay, that himfelf and the prince

mifery.

a much nobler liquor.

An infeft which breeds in Bounce, n.f. [from the verb.]

Boub. n. f.

The freights of Hitting ghofls in his thin bottom
Drydert,
bears.

make a (iidden leap, a!

and flies, and bounces, and imitates tlic pajlions pt'

A fort of

[French.]

to

High uanfenfe is like beer in a bottle, which
has, in reality, no ftrength and Ipirit, but fiets,

Harris,

the ihip.

BO'UCHET. n. f.

}

fudden exploiion.

'

Sjccn.

He 's a foolilh fcaman.

To fpring

2.

fo as that, if the ihip mii'carry,
the lender lofes the money advanced ;
but, if it arrives fafe at the end of the

a veflel for navigation.

Nor to one place.

Af ainft his bofom bcunc'd his heaving heart. Dryd,

[In navigation and

&T&. motion.
He wrote many things which are not publiAicd
in hi« name ; and was^^t the hatiam of many tx-

9.

The fright awakcn'd Arcite with a flarr,

Sidney.'

Bo'ttom Rv.

remotcft caufe ;

To fall or fly againlt any thing witk
great force, fo as to rebound.

any

not my formw deep, hiving no bottom
Then be my paflians boiiomlefi with them. Shak,
Him the Almighty Pow'r
Hurl'd headlong flaming from th' ethereal fky
To boittmle/i perdition.
Milton,

will fetch ofTchefejuftices t I do fee the ktttimf

I

of Juftice Shallow

from falling infinitely.

Is

low.

Skinner, from the found.]
1.

into which it is eaficr to keep one's fclf from

pit,

Sbaktffurt,

The uttnod extent or profundity of any

7,

B O U

Bo'ttom LEia. etJJ, [from Soitom,] With- Tt BOUNCE. V. n. [a word (bnned, fayii

by

iMki^

bis reputation.

%.

;

,1ddifoii,

Dext'ioui

he 'fcapcs the coach with nimble

bounds,

WhiUl cv'ry hoaeft tsogue Stop thief rewound:.

:t

,

;'

SOU

U

B

A rebound ; the leap of fomething flying back by the force of the blow.

A.

inward difgulls are but the firrt iouitd of
Daay of Piety.
this ball of contention.
'i hcle

Senfation and refleftion are the boundaries of
our thoughts; beyond which the mi.nd, whatever
ciforts it would make, is not able to advance. Locke,

;

now much in ul'e.

—

•

Shakrjp.

Sbakefpeare.

men on earth were iounden.

and thofe who depend on us,

To BOUND. T. «. [hondir, Fr.]
bounden duty.
to move forward
1. To jump ; to fpring
7 ?». /.
Bo'uNDiNC-STONE.
by leaps.
for ourfelves,

Bound-stone.

TorrifmoR^ appear'd.

Gave me his band, and led me lightly o'er,

I

Leaping and bmnJiit^cn the billow^ heads. Dryd.
Before his lord the ready fpaniel hands ;
SiiiUng with hope, he tries the furrow'd grounds.
Pope.
When fudden through the woods a ioundiKg ftaj
Hulh'd headlong duwn, and plung'd amidlt the

Rowe.
river.
Warbling to the rary'd ftrain, advance
Two Iprightly youths, to form the hounding dance.
Popt.

back by reper-

To make to bound.

If I might bufl^et for my love, or bound my borfe

play with.

am pall a boy

Sbjke/peart.

Soi;nd. preuritt and participle paj/iijt oi
bind.
Nay, faid Pamela, none /hall take that office
from myfelf, being fo much bound ti 1 am for my
Sidney.

and therefore nothing but God
South.
himfelf can fatisfy him.

fonsof men, adorned with gorgeous attire. Hooker^
If you knew to whom you fliew this honour,
1 know you would be prouder oi the work.
Than cuftomary bounty can enforce ynu. Stehff»
Such moderation v/ith thy bounty join.
That thou may'ft nothing give that is not thine,

Denbam,
Thofe godlike men, to wanting virtue kind.

his being ;

Bounty well plac'd preferr'd, and well defign'd.
Dryden,
To all their titles.

a prefent from an alms ; being ufed when
perfons, not abfoluiely neceflitous, receive gifts ; or when gifts are given by
great perfons.

Locke.
Ihould doubt thv he fills immenfity.
Some guide the courfe of wand'ring orbs on
high.
Or roll the planets through the boundkfs (ky. Pope.

Tell a mifer of bounty to a friend, or meiay
to the poor, and he will not underftand it. South,
Her mnjefty did not fee this-aitcmbly fo propei^

Bo'uNDLESSNEss. n.f. Iftom boundle/j.]
Exemption from limits.
God lias corrc^ed the boundJeffnefs of his voluptuous defires, by ftinting his capacities.
South.

Bo'uKTEOus.

[from bounty.'] Ligenerous ; munincent
beneficent : a word ufed chiefly in poetry

to excite charity and compafTioii ; though I queftion not but lier royal bounty will extend itfelf to

them.

adj.

To fprout

Knoltes,

Every one,

£oan1eimt\ bucalmoft ^0»flffi«i to avice.

Still would 1 give thee work.

Dryden^

Bo'uNTEOUSLY. od-v. [from bounteous,']

They fummoncd the governor to deliver it to

Liberally ; generoufly ; largely.

He boutticpiijly bcrtow'd unenvy'd good

to any place.
His be that care, whom moft it doth concern,

Pfalms.

Bo'u N T I F u L. adj. [from bounty and/a//.]
Liberal; generous; munificent.
Shakfpeare.
As bountiful as mines of India.

Fairy iiueen.

If you will fce rich, you muft live frugal j if you
Taylor.
will be popular, you muft be bountiful,
I am obliged to return my thanlcs to many,

To be bound for a port one defires extremely,

who, without confidcring the man, have been

Great cagfe, that carries tbce (o fwift and light.

God, the bcuniifut author of our being.

TimpU.

Bo'uvDARY. n./, [from 6»und.] Limit;
bound.

He btStn the coaS'iCBee and dajnoun of the

Dryden.

bountiful to tlie poet.

and fail to it with a fair gale, ii very picafant.
2,

It has o/ before the thing given,
to before the perfon

Lccke.

and

ti.

A bound

f.
;

[borne, Fr.J

a limit.

That undifcovti'd country, from whofe bourn

No traveller returns.

Shakefptare,
Falfe,

As dice .ire to be wilh'd by one that fixes

No bourn 'twixt his and mine.

Sbakefpeare^

1 know each lane, and every alley green.
And every bolky bmrn from fide to fide. Milton^
2, [From bu)in, Saxon,] A brook; a torwhence many towns, feated near
rent
brooks, have names ending in bourn.
:

It

is

not

now ufed

in

either fenfe ;..

though the fecond continues in the Scottifh dialect.

Ne fwelling Neptune, ne liud thund'ring Jove^
Can change my cheer, or make me ever mourn ;

My little boat can fafcly pafs this perilous bourn,

receiving.

Our king fparcs nothing, to give them the (hare
of that feUcity, ofs^lucii kt it ig ieunliful t» his
kjX)i»l»«u

1.

Sbakefpeare,

Munificence ; liberality ; kindnefs.
He fiUeth all things living with htuteeufnefs.

1.

BouRK.

!

Dryditu

Bourn, bound of land, tilth, vineyard, none.

Dryden.
On roe.
Eo'uNTEot/SNESS. »./. [from bounteous.^

Said he j but whither with fuch hafty flight
Art thou now bounds for well might I difcern

Willing wc fought your (hores, and hither hcund,
The port fo long defir'd at lenj^h we found. Drjd.

That one might i^.:rgeon where another fell

Sbakefpeare.

them, or elfe they would not leave one ftone upon
another* To which the governor made no other
reply, than that he was not hound to repair it ; but,
however, he would, by God's help, keep the

intending to come

that I had the fruitful heads of Hydra,

Her foul abhorring avarice,

Bound, adj. [a word of doubtful etymo-

UiitieU

f4ves.

According to the gift which hountnus nature

Clarendon.

;

[bourgeonner, Fr.J
to Ihoot into branches ; to-

put forth buds.
L'ing may the dew of heaven diftil upon them,
to make tliem bourgeon and propagate among them-

for bouritijul.

Hath in him clos'd.

jiddifoni

foBo'uRGEON. "v, ».

beral ; kind ;

ill all fenfc be much b-Mnd to him ;
For, as 1 hfar, he was much bound for you. Sbak.
The gentleman is Icarn'd, a moft rare fp'aker.
Slakrfpeare.
To nature none more bound,
The biilops of Hungary, being wonderfully
rich, were bound to keep great numbers of horfcluen, which they ufed to bring into the field.

a»

2. It feems diftinguifhed from charity,

Though we make duration ioundlefs as it is, we
cannot extend it beyond all being. God fills eternity, and it is hard to find a icafon why any one

—You Ihould

Deftined;

We

Man feemi as bmindlefs in his defires, as Cod
in

Generofity ; liberality; rrmnificence.
do not fo far mai,":ify her exceeding bounty,
as to affirm, that (he bringcth into the world the-

[Jtoia bound. 1

Sbakefpeare.
Art thou damn'd, Hubert.
Hcav'n has of right all victory defign'd ;
confin'd.
dwells
will
in
a
Whence boundlefs power

To whom I am fo infinitely bound—

logy.]

1

Of mercy, if thou didft this deed of death,

This is Antonio,

ground afterwards.

BO'UNTY, n.f. [*ot/?, Fr.]

limitable.
Beyond the infinite and boundlefs reach

is

Fairy Siueen,

hood f

j

Unlimited ; unconfined ; immeafurable ; il-

Bo'uNDLESS. «^'.

If love, ambitious, fought a match of birth,
Whofe veins icaix/ richer blood than lady Blanch ?

-

A ftone to

A fceptre's but a play-thing, and a globe
Dryden,
A bigger biunding-Jione.

for her favours, 1 would lay on like a butcher, and
Sbaiefpeore.
fit like a jackanapes, never off.

education.

Se»

hood.

or

This goodly ffame of temperance.
Formerly grounded, and fift fettled
On firm foundation of true bountihcad. Fairy S^Ur
How Ihall frail pen, with fear difparaged.
Conceive fuch fovereign glory, and great bounti-

a

Dryden.

cuffion.
Mark. th;n a bounding valour in our Englifh,
That beiie dead, like to the bullets grazing.
Breaks out into a fccond courfe of mifchief. Sbak.

7» BotJND.

J

is

Rogers.

;

a.

1 Corinthians-.

Goodnefs j
It is now wholly out of ufe.

virtue.

Bacon.

To be careful for a provifion of all necelVaries

Sbaktjftort.

fly

Bo'tiNTlHEDE. > bead,

cf us as his true fer^ant3, by as juft a right as ever

•

Biurds in mv fire's.

Enriched to ail bountifulnefs.

Bo'uNTiHEAD. T n. f. [from ^oHH/y and

We alfo moft humbly bcfought him to accept Bo'uNTiHOOD. 3 Hood.]

My niither's bhud
Runs on the d;xter ch«ek, and this finifter

"v.

Bro-zun^s P'ulgar Errotirs*

Bo'uNTiFULNESs. n. j'. [from bountiful.']
The quality of being bountiful ; generofity.

and knowledge of you,—
I reil much bounden to you : fare you well.

I ihall defire more love

Sometiraes with in.

To rebound; to

It is afiirmej, that it never raineth in Egypt
the river bountifully requiting it iu its inundation.

Hereafter, in a better world than this,

And mai^c a fcp of all this folid globe.

2.

Not

Bo'u N D E N . participle pajji-ve of bind.

to confine.

The bcundtd waters
Would lift their lir.foms higher than the (hores.

'

And noTT tliy alms is given,
And thy poor ftarveliiig bounlifully fed.
Donne,

confift in the irregula-

attending the ordinary purfuits of life ; fo
our reformation mu'i appear, by pirrlnlng
R'.gers.
them within the boundaries of duty.

Tak- b..t degree away.

J.

largely.

that

With treble walls, which Phlegethon furrounds,
Whofe fiery flood the burning empire beunds, Dryd.

To reftrain

Bo'uNTiptJtUY. adv, [from ioHntiful.y
Liberally ; in a botintiful manner i

rities

;

2.

King Charles.

to his authority.

Great part of our fins

To limit to term-nate.
A lofty tow'r, and iVrong on every fiuE

B O U

peoplt to pafs all ioundariet of lai»i| «ilil K»creBee

To Bound, v. a. [from the noun.]
J.

^

.

DrjJtn.

Spetfrr,

To BOUSE. -J.

n.

[btiyfen,

drink lavifbly ; to tope.

Dulsh,]

To.

,

!

BOW
Ai he rode, he fomcwbii ftiU i\i tu.

Wiih a long legend ot' lomancick things,

Which in his cupi the bsui'y poet fings. DryJtn,
The guefts Ujwn the day appointed came,
Each Inuly farmer with hi< limp'ringdame. King.
turn ; as
BoWT. ». /. [botta, Ital.]

A

much of an atlion as is performed at
one time, without interruption ; a fingle part of any adion carried on by fucceflive intervals.
The play began^ Pai> durft not Cofma chace;
lut did intend next hut with her to meet. Sidney,
Ladirs, that have your feet
Uoplagued wil}i Corns, we'll have a i-Mt, Sbaieff.
When in your motions you are hot,
As make your Uun more violent to that end,

Drjdett,

Tofloop.
The people bvuitd down upon their knees to

3.

drink.

They ftcop, they I'ovi down together ; they could

DiytUn.

the bat begged for life
fiy? the wealcl, I give no quarter to birds: fays
fo jhe
the hat, I aai a moufe } look on my body
:

jot off for tJiat ioul.
L'EJIrange.
We'll fee when 'tis enough,
Or if it want the nice concluding boitt, King,

SOVTEFEU. n, /, [French.]
cendiary ; one

Aa in-

[I fuppofe

no, lo.

without any regard to the tv.]
1. An inftrument of war, made by holding wood or metal bent with a ftring,
which, by its fpring, ihoots arrows with

Haywani.

And the foft lute trembling beneath the touching

Sir y,

inftruments were various in their

A threepence bnv'd would hire me.
Old as I am, to queen it.

hand.

for bought.
Make a knot, and let the fecond knot be with a

Orpheus, with his lute, made trees,

A yoke.
hath his iow. Sir, the horfe his
curb, and the faulcon his bells, fo man hath his

As

Bvw themfelves when he diii fing.

Sbakeffeare.
Some b<m> the vines, which bury'd in the plain,

>.

when at firft it was moft tender and molt
Locke.

To bend the body in tokcnof refped or
fubmiflion.
They came to meet him, and bcnoeJ thcmfcUes
2 Kings.
to the ground before him.
Is it to bsw down his head as a bulrulh, and to
fpread fackcloth and afltes under him ? wilt tliou
(all this a faft, and an acceptable day to the Lord ?
Ij'aiab,

To bend, ori.ndine, in condefcenfion.
Let it not grieve thee to bviu down thine ear to
Ktclus,
the p'totf and give him a friendly anfwer.

To deprefs ; to crufli.
Are y»u fo gofpell'd,

To pray for this good man, and for his iffue,
Whofe heavy hand hath bvw^d you to the grave,
Sbakefpearc.
And bcggar'd yours for ever ?
Now wafting years my former ftrength confound,
And added woes may bcw me to the groiuid. Pufe,
ft Kow. V, n,
To bend ; lo fuffex flexure.

C

Shakijpeare.

Bow of a /addle. The boius of afaddU
are two pieces of wood laid archwife, to
receive the upper part of a horfe's back,
to give the faddle its due form, and to
Farrier's DiQionary,
keep it tight.

DryJen.
Their tops in diftant arches rife again.
The mind has not been made obedient to dtfeafy to be hoii>cd,

die ox

defirc.

And the mountain topi that freeze,

cipline,

H^ifeman,

bow.

J,

Bow of a Jhip. That part of hsr which
begins at the loof, and compafllng ends
of the ftern, and ends at the Iternmoll
If a (hip hath
parts of the forecaftle.

Boyle*

Inteftines ; thevelfels and organs within the body.
He fmote him therewith in the fifth rib, and

1.

,

out his b.ivcls,
a Sam. xx. xo.
Tlie inner parts of any thing.
Had w2 no quarrel elfc to Ronie, but that
Thou art thence banifli'd, we would muiler all
From twelve to fcventy and pouring war
Into the bnveh of ungrateful Rome,
ftied

2.

;

Like a bold itood appear.
Sbakrfpearu
His foldiers fpying his undaunted fpirit,
A Talbot Talbot! cried out amain.
And rufli'd into the bo-wdi of the battle. Shut,
As he faw drops of water didilling from the
rock, by following the veins, he has made himfelf
two or three fountains in the bovreli of the mountain.
Mdifon,
'.

.-j

" The feat of pity, or kindnefs.
His boTL'ch did yern upon him.

Cenijii,

4. Tendernefs ; compalTion.
He had no other conlideration of money, than
for the fupport of his luflre j and whilil he could
do that, he cared not for money ; having no betvelt

Dryden'i FahUs,

doubling of a firing in a flipThis is perhaps corruptly ufed
knot.

.

Shaheffeare,

thing was no longer to bo iztn,

BO'WELS. n.f. [^jaax, Fr.]

in the point of running in debt, or

The

.,

from the bow.

Though he were not tiicn a bozo-jh'it off, and
made haife ; yet, by that time he was conic, the

1 do fft my b(fw in the cloud, and it (hall be for a
token ot a covenant between me and the earth.
Gen. ix. i J.

BOUTS RIMEZ.

[French.]
The laft
words or rhimes of a number of verfes
given to be filled up.
To BOW. -v. a. [bu3en, Saxon.]
It founds as nrw,
1. To bend, or inAe£l.
or ho-iu.

its flight

Mtyncs Henry VII.

The inftrument with which ftring-inftruments are ftruck.

bo-w and f'ot.']

The fpace which an arrow may pal's la

A rainbow.

3.

.Sperjir'i Src/nnd,

Having crooked legs.
Bow-snor. «. /. [from

The white faith of hift'ry cannot fliow,

To fpeak nothing of the great bout'ifale of colleges
and chantries.

Surely he ihoots wid.: on the boiv-band, and
very far from the mark.

That e'er the mulket yet could beat the bote.

kind ;
Their
Some for the boiu, and fome for breathing wind :
The fawtry, pipe, and hautboy's noify band.

fold.

A libyl old, tnv-ieni with aooked age.
That far events full wifely cmild prel'age, Miltmm
Bow-H AND. n. f. [from bow and band.J
The hand that draws the bow.

thy beta, and go out to the field, and take me fome
Getiejis.
venifon.

2.

Covjcll.

Crooked.

great force.
Take, 1 pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver, and

iiom bouty

A fale at a cheap
or booty, a.nd /ale."]
rate, as booty or plunder is commonly

4.

pro-

Bow. n, /, [pronounced as jratt'

We

3.

is

5l))ift.

who kindles feuds and

the vulgar, they cnterod into open rebellion. Bacon.
Nor tould ever any oriier be obtained impartially
to punidi the known houttfeus, and open IncendieKing Charln,
riea.
Befides the herd of ttmitfiBS,
Huditrai,
fet on work within the houfe.

2.

/ [from the verb.

It

Nor quarrel'd at their awkward bow.

difcontonts.
Now difufed.
Animated by a bafe fellow, called John a Chamber, a very boutefeUi who bore much fway among

Bo'uTiSALE. ti,/.

IJitkib, xlvi. 2.

:

i

An under-ofHcer of thq foreft.

Bow-bent, adj, [from boif and be>rt.'\

nounced, like the verb, as no-w, bo-w.]
An aft of reverence or fubmiiiion, by
bending the body.
Some clergy too flic would allow.

If he chance to Tcape this difmalWr,

A wcafel fcizcd a bat

».

requifite to draw long arches. Harrit.

Bow-L EGGED, atf/. [from bo-iv 3Lttdleg,'\

not deliver the burden.

Bow.

IS

Bow-BEARER. »./. [from bo-vj and^Mr.l

'Jii'lg"-

To fmk under preiTure.

4.

Shakejfeare,

The former legatees ate blotted out.

projeflions of the fphere, or wherever it

Rather let my h«d
Stoop to the block, than thefe knees beta to any.
Save to the God of heav'n, and to my king. &bak.
This is the great idol to which the world hTWi ;
to this we pay our devoutcft homage.
Decay tfPiiiy.
Admir'd, ador'd, by all the circling crowd.
face,
they bnv'd,
/he
tum'J
her
For whcreloe'er

.

He calls for drink.

To make a reverence.

2.

And in hand did bcu t injif^ can,
Fairy-^en.
Of which he fipt.
Bou'sY. at^J. [from l">u/e.] Drnnken.

'

BOW

BOW

borrowir-i; all

Clarendon.

he could.

This word feldom has ^fingular, except
in writers of anatomy.
Bo'wER. n, f, [from bough or branch, or
from the verb To boiu or bend.']
5.

1.

An arbour; a (heltered place covered
with green trees, twined and bent.
But, O fad virgin, that thy piwer
Milton,
Might raife Mufieus from his boiver,
To gT>ds appealing, when I reach their bow'rt

With loud complaints, they anfwer me in fliow'rs.
Walla-.
Refrelh'd, they wait them to the i«u'rof (late.
Where, circled with his peers, Atrides fat. Pope.

2. It feems to fignify, in Spenfer, a blow ;

a ftroke ; bourrer, Fr. to fall upon.
Hisrawbonc arms, wiir>K* mighty brav.iicd h:^oer^

Were wont to rive fteel pbtes, and helmets hew.
Were clean confum'd, and all his vital puwers
Sfrnfer'i Fairy Sijieen.

Decay 'd.

a broad bow, they call it a bold boiu ; if
Bo'wER. n. f, [from the /«n; of a fhip.]
a narrow thin bow; they fay (he hath
Anchors fo called. See Bow.
that
ordnance
of
piere
a lean boiv. The
To
[from the noun.]

ToBo'wHR.. 'V. a.
is called the bcwembower ; to inclofe.
here,
hang
that
anchors
the
and
fiece ;
Thou didit Loiuer the fpirit
bonuers.
are called her great and little
In mortal paradile of fwihf^vret fl.fli. Sbakrffiare.
Full of
8. Bnv is alfo a mathematical inftru- Bo'wERY. adj. [from banner,']
ment, made of wood, formerly ufed by
bowers.
Landlkips how gay the b'.iury grotto y-clds,
feamen in taking the fun's altitude.
wood
or
Which thought creates, and laviih fancy builds
of
beam
likewife
a
Bo'v:
is
9.
lies

in this place,

brafs, with three long (crews, that clireft
ui'ed
a lath of wood or fteel to any arch
commonly to draw draughts ol" (hips.

Tiikc/t.

Snatch'd through the verdant maze, the hurritd

;

J^
Diftiafted \*andcrs

;

new the hie'ry wa k

or

w

'

;

!.

BOW

.

BOY

BOX
The whole city fliall flee, for the no'ife of the
horfemen and bov;men.
Jenmiah, iv. 29,

Orc«Tert dofe, where (cttct i fpeclt of day
Fills ©n the IcDgthenM gloom, protraae* fweeps.

Belled !n a cluir, the bean impatient fits,

While fpouts run clatt'ring o'er the roof bv fif«.

Bo'wspRiT.

BowoE. See To Bouge.
BOWr,. a./, [iuelitt, Wel(h; which figTil

nines, according to Junius, any thing
made of horn, as Jrinking cups ancieutl/ were.

n. /.
[from the bow of a
This word is generally fpelt
bolt/prit ; which fee.
To Bo'wssEN. 'v.a. [probably of the fame
original with bou/e, but found in no other

fhip.]

It is pronounced bolc.'\

was the frantick perfon fet, and from
thence tumbled headlong into the pond ; where a
this wall

ftrong fellow tolTed him up and down, until the
patient, by foregoing his ftrength, had fomewhat
forgot his fury : but if there appeared fniail a-

;

have not that alicriry of fpirit,
Nor cheer of mind, that I "/as wont to have.
I

mendment, he was

Sbakefpeare,
If a piece of iro" be faftere«Von the fide of a
water,
a
loadftone,
in
a boar of cork, will
l^'.-jil of

Bmvn*
make unto it*
The facred pjitfts, ^Vrh ready knives, bereave
The beads of !rA, ind m i'uii bomli receive
The ftreamine blijod.
Dryden.

continual fcraping.

Sivift*.

Bdcon-

One whofe trade is to make bows.
BOX. » f. [box, Saxon j buxus, Lat.]
The i'j.ej are pennated, and evergreen

!

if

To Bowl. f. a. [from the noun.]

Box.
1.

To roll as a bowl.
2. To pelt with any thing rolled.
1.

I

a./, [box. Sax.

SpeBaton

To Box. v. a. To ftrike with the fill.
Bo'xEN. n./. [from box.\

Made of box.

1

The young gentlemen learned, before all other
things, to defign upon tablets of boxen wood. Dryd.

it hath

As laJs and lafl<;s Hood around.

bii/ie.

any thing.

It is

Her faded clieeks are chang'd to boxen hue.

And in her eyes the tears arc ever new.
Dryet*
Bo'xER. n. /. [from box.] A man who
fights with his fid.
BOY. n./. [bub. Germ. The etymology is
not agreed on.]
*'
I. A male child ; not a girJ.
The ftrcets of the city (hall be full of ioyi and
girls playing.

z.

Speak thou, bey ;
Perhaps thy childiflinefs will move hira more
Than can our reafons.
Shakefpeare's CorlohnuTt

Germ.]

Sometimes forgotten things, long cart behind,
Rufli forward in rhe brain, and come to mind :

diftinguiftied

The nurfe's legends are for truths receiv'd.
And the man dreaiBt but what the k'y bellcv'd.

It is fuppofed to have its name from the

box wood.

Merry iVi-vit cf WinJir,,.

through the box, fend forth bis
to a beloved needle.

will be kept in

plain

ie^i;iir[-gretii,wM ruu neceflbrily in adlreft lin'.

my cuftody, to receive fuch papers

as arc dropped into it.

Br/wLiKG. 5 tcned to

:<

So many more, fo every one was ua'd,
4.

That to give largely to the A-x rcfus'd.
Spcrfer.
The feats in the playhoufe, where the
ladies are placed.

Pope,'

To Boy. 1;. n. [from the noun.]

To treat

as a boy.

Anthony
Shall he brought drunken forth, and I fliall fee

Some Iqueaking Cleopatra boy my griatneli,

r th' piifture of a whore.
Sbiikefpcare,
Bo'y HOOD. «./ [from boy.] The ftate of
a boy ; the part of life in which we are
boys.
This is perhaps an arbitrary
word.
If you (hould look at him, in his boyhood,
through the magnifying end of a perfpedive, and,
in his manhood, through the other, it would be
impoflible to Ijiy any difti:reiicc : the fame air,

'Tis left to you j the boxes and the pit
Are foveri-ign judges of this fort of wit. Dryden.
She glares in balls, front boxei, and the ring;
vain, unquiet, glittering, wrc.chcil thing. Pope.

dole in a box.

Locke.

The pale bey fenator yet tingling flaads.
And holds his bixeches clofe with both his hands*

Sl.elc

put.

who yet need the care of a

tutor.

This calfcet Ir.dia's glmving gems unlocks,

And all Arabia breathes from yonder' i«Ar. Pope.
2. The cafe of the mariners compafs.
J. The cheft into which money given is

e.nlley.
A
lo'wMAM. »./. [from ^v and man.] An To Box. 'V. a. [from the jioun.]

archer ; he that liioots with a bow.

Men of worth and parts will noteafily admit the
familiarity of boysy

.'Shul-fpeare.

mouth, which ftiall taUc in letters and papers.
There will be under it a box, of which the kev

plays at bowls.

A word of contempt for young men, as
noting their immaturity.

The lion's head is to open a rnoft wide voracious

BoVline. "{«./. [featerm.] A rope faf-

bmuline is to make t'n ,. fails Hand Iharp
or clofe to a wind.
Harris
Bo' i.iNC.cRE£K. »./. [ from boivl and
gran.]
A level piece of ground, kept
fmooth for bowlers.

3.

embracing virtue
Sidmy.

About his (helves
A beggirly accoiii»t of empty boxes.

;

the middle part
of the outlide of a fail ; it is fattened in
three or four parts of the fail, called
the benuling bridle.
The uic of the

Drydettm

A magnet, though put in an ivory box, will,

Bo'vvLDEK.-STONE5. 11./. Lumps Or fragments of Hones or marble, broke from
the adjacent cliffs, rounded by being
tumbled to and again by the water
whence their name.
Woodiuarei.
Bo'wiER. n. /. [from bo'wl.\ He that

Zcchariab.

One in the (late of adolefcence ; older
than an infant, yet not arrived at puberty or manhood.

from che/?, as the Ir/s from the greater.

had rather ne let (;jick i' th' earth,

Cay,

Refembling box.

2.

A cafe made of wood, or other matter,
to hold

And bcwt'd to death with turnips.

A bowl eijualiy poifcd, and thrown upon

hath had fix duels, and four-and-twenty
boxing matches, in defence of his majefty's title.

To hear my boxert hautboy found.
;

male flowers, that are produced at remote diftances
from the fruh, on the fame tree ; the fruit is
fliaped like a ^ .rrldge-pot inverted, and is divided
into three eel. , containing two feeds in each,
which, when ripe, are caft forth by the elafticity
of the veflels. The wood is very ufeful for engravers, and mathematical ir.ftrument makers
being fo hard, clofe, and ponderous, as to fink in
water.
MtUer.
There are two forts ; tl: ^ dwarf fc*, and a taller
fort.
The dwarf box is good for borders, tf d is
ei/ily kept in order, with one clipping in the year.
It will increafe of flips fet in March, or about
B.ittholomcw tide ; and will profper on cold barren
hills, where nothing elfe will grow.
Meriimer.

Like to a bo^ioi upon a fubtile ground,
I've tumbled part the throw.
Sbaiefptart.
How finely doft thou times and feafons fpin
And maice a twill checker'd with night and day
Which, as it lengthens, winds, and winds us in.
As hnvis go on, but turning all the way,. Herbert.
Like him, who would lodge a kvwl upon a pre•ipice, either my praife falls back, or flays not on
the top, but rowis over.
Drydcn.
Men may make a game at bvwh in the fummer,
game
at whift in the winter.
and a
Drrnii'i Lei.
Though that piece of wood, which is now a

SptSmor.

He

A tree.

may be rolled along the ground.

roondnefs be
tak'n away, it is no longer a i-^w!. tfatts'tLogut.

the blows.

z.

BOWL. ft./, [ioule, Fr. It is pronounced
ss cotu, hmuL]
A round raafs, which

!

An archer; one that ufes the bow.
Call for vengeance from the howyer king. Dryi.

But the main matter i> fo to convey the water,
ai it never (lay either in the inv/ot in the ciftern.

VEJirange.

Bacon.

Bo'wYER. n./. [from ^ooy.]
I.

them fairly in

he boxes with his fore;
feet, as a cat doth her kitlins.
Greta.
The flghting with a man's fliadow confifts in
brandifliing two flicks, loadcn with plugs of lead ;
this gives a man all the pleafure of itxin^, without

Sound will be conveyed to the ear, by ftriking
upon a boivjlring, if the horn of the bow be held
to the ear.

left

A leopard is like a cat

He hath twice or thrice cut Cupid's botujir'wg,
and the little hangman dare not flioot at him.

A bafin, or fountain.

iAIas

themfelvcs a-weary, and then
the lurch.

Shakefpeare.

FittM to Lord Gtvier.
z. The hollow part of any thing.
If you are allowed a large filvcr fpoon for the
kitchen, let half the hoxel ol it be worn out with

made fijuare, yet,

with the fill.
The afs very fairly looked on, till they had boxed

bent.

And wit and fecial mirth infiiires.

To fight

To Box. 'V. n. [from the noun.]

and again,

Bo'wsTRiNO. n./ [from ^ooK and y?r/«f.]
The ftring by which the bow is kept

With fparkJing plcjity ciiowns the kvil.

icro/, may be

ttm'jjined .again

while there remained in him any hope of life, for
recovery.
Careio^s Survey of CornivaU.

While the bright 'Jein, tf exalt the foul,

3.

For the box o' th' ear that the prince gave you»
he gave it like a rude prince.
Sbairfpeare,
If one (hnuld take my hand perforce, and give
another a bcx on the ear with it, the law puniflieth the other.
Bremhall,
There may happen concuHinns of the braio
from a box on the ear.
Wijcmans Surgery.
Olphis, the fiflierman, received a box on the ear
from Theftylis.
AJdiJ'on'! SpeHator.

To drench ; to foak.
The water fell into a clofe walled plot ; upon

thar Jeep ; diilinguiihed from a cup,
whicK is rather deep than wide.
Give me a bviol of wine

A

blow on the head given with the hand.

paflage.]

A veflel to hold liquids, rather wide

\.

Svif!,

BOX. «./ [bod, a cheek, Welfh.]

the fame ftrut.

Swift.

To in- Bo'yish. etdj. [from boy.J
I.

Belonging to a boy.
lia».

}

BRA

BRA

Tenfion ; tightnefs.
The mod frequent caufe ef deafneft il the lax-

Mix'd them with fait, and feafon'd all the fei.

BRA
t iM It dirough, e'en from my Itji/b itiftf

To th' very moment that he bade me tell it. Stat.

9.

nefs of the tympanum,

ii Childiih ; trifling.
This unhiir'd faucinef!, and ityijh traopi,

Brace,

Sbakefl>eare.

Model, and imitate him, without knowiog wherein
he is defective, where he is ityi/b and triAing.

1.

a couple.

All

It is not braces,

Coodlied of all the foretl, hart and hind. Par.Lc/l.
Ten brace and more of greyhounds, fnowy fair,
And tall as (lags, ran loole, and cours'd around

Bo'yiSHNESB. n./. [{rom ioyi/b.] Childifhnefs ; trifling manner.

Dryden't Fables.

bis chair.

Fuerility j

childilhners.
He had complained he was farther oflF, by being
fo near) and athoufand fuch ^^|/ii9i,which Chaucer
Drydtnri'jeiled as below the fubjed.

2. It is ufed generally in converfation as

Sir y. Hayward.

A cla-

Bracelets of the fairy twills.

morous, quarrelfome, noify fellon'.

them from their infancy, have very little feet.
to make tenfe ; to ftrain up.

1,

n

Cinflure ; bandage.
a. That which holds any thing tight.
I.

and relaxing it, as the brace: of the war-drum do
Derham,
m that.
g. Brace [in architefture] is a piece of
timber framed in with bevil joints, ufed

4.

5.

fwerving

Builder's Di^.

Braces, fa fea term.] Ropes belonging to all the yards, except the mizen.
They have a pendant to the yard-arm,
two braces to each y-ord ; and, at the
end of the pendant, a block is feized,
through which the rope called the brace
is reeved.

[from brace."]
a bandage.

The braces ferve to fquare

and traverfe the yards.

Sea DiH,

Braces of a Conch.

Thick ftraps of

leather on which it hangs.

6. Harnefs.
7. Brace. [In printing.] A crooked line
inclofmg a paflTage, which ought to be
taken together, and not feparately ; as
in a triplet.
Charge Venus to command her lou,
fon,
Wherever elfe (he lets him rove,

ff^jfemaii,

2.

A medicine of conftringent power.

Brach. n.f. [braque, Fr.] A bitch hound.

praftice of writing in a (hort compafs.
All the certainty of thofe high pretenders, bating

what they have of the lirft principles, and tlie word
of God, may be circumfcribed by as fmall a circle
as the creed, when bracbygrafly had confined it

^ Warlike preparation

;

broken part.
The place was but weak, and the bracks fair;
but the defendants, by refulution, fupplicd all the
defers.
Hay%vard.
Let them compare my work with what is taught
in the fchools, and if they find in theirs many brtchs
and (hort ends, which cannot be I'pun into in c«n
piece ; and, in mine, a fair coherence throughout j
I (hall promife myfelf an acquiefciince.
Oighy.

armour ; as we fay, girded for the battle.
As it more canccrns the Turk than Rhodes,
So nay he with more facile queftion bear it
For tliat it (lands not in fuch warlike bract.
SLikH'/rtare,

RoJcommoA
3.

!

Brag. n.f. [from the verb.]
1

fomewhat fait

:

Salt;
it is ufed particularly of

the water of the fea.
Pits upon the fea (liore turn into frerti water,
by percolation of the fait through the land ; but
it is farther noted, after a time, the water in Inch

become brackijh again.
Baean,
I had gain d the brow and top,
A lake of hrackijb Waters the ground

pit! will

When

Was all 1 found.

«

Herbert,

A boaft

;

a proud ex'prcflion.

A kind of conqued
Ciefar made here ; but made not here his brag
Of came, and faw, and overcame,
'ihakcffeare.
It was fuch a new thing for the Spaniards ta
receive fo little hurt, upon dealing with the EngliA,
as Avellancda made great irj^i of it, for nog. cater

matter than the waiting upon the Engliib afar off.
Baccn,

of lomething.
Let yuur (helves be laid upon brackets, being about
two feet wide, and edged with a fmall lath.

0« is ufed, but improperly.
Yet lo in me what authors have to brag on,
Reduc'd ar laft to hils in my oA'n dragon. P«^A

Bra'cket. n.f. [a term of carpentry.]
A piece of wood fixed for the fupport

'

from bracing the

But altogether lacks th' abilities
Tiuc Rhodea it inWi io.

GlanvilU.

Brack, n.f. [from break.l A breach ; a

BRA'CKISH. a^-. [brack, ^£i^xic\i,]
3 Prkr,

It has «/^ before the thing boafted.

Knowledge being the only thing whireef ws
pbor old men can brag, we cannot make it known
but by utterance.
Sidney,
Verona brags of him.
To be a virtuous and wcll-govcrn'd youth. Skak*
Every bufy little fcribbler now
Swells with the praifes which he gives himfelf.
And taking fan£)uary in tlie crowd.
Brags of his impudence, and fcorns to mend.

Brachy'craphy. n.f. [i3|«xt«, fliort,
and y^aifu, to write.] The art or

M'-rtimiT.

grov i >
To Ihun my houfe, and lield, and grove

2.

Lat.] Belonging to the arm*

within the compafs of a penny.

Siiakefpeare.

In bragging out fome of their private tenets, ai
if they were the ellabiilhed dodirine of the church
of England.
Sanderfin.
The rebels were grown fo ftrong there, that thev
intended then, a« they already biaggej, to como
over and make this the feat of w.i"r.
Clarendon.
Mrs. Bull's condition was looked upon as def.
pcratc by all the men of art ; but there were thofe
that bragged they had an infallible ointment.
Arhutkntt^

ftrained by a bracer, without much trouble.

'

ove.
Peace cannot dwell with hate or love.

lies.

Bra'chi A!., adj. [from brachium, an arm,

The little bones of the ear-drum do in draining

building from

;

Truth 's a dog muft to kennel ; he muft be
whipped out, when the lady bracb mny ftand by
the fire, and ftink.
Shakefpearc.

Brace. »./. [from the verb.]

to keep the
either way.

n./.

A cintlure

When they afl'eft tire belly, they may be rc-

The tympanum i» not capable of tenfion that
way, in fuch a manner a) a drum is braced. Holder,

The diminution of the force of the preffure of
the external air, in bracing the fibres, muft create
Air,
a debility in raufcular motion. Arbutbmt

!

arm.

Bra'cer.

to difplay oftentatioufly

Telling the bulhes that ihou look'ft for wars,
A.nd wilt not come ?
Shakcfjieare.
Mark me, with what violence flic firft loved the
Moor, but for bragging, and telling her fantajical

Bojile.

A piece of defenfive armour for the

2.

To boaft;

to tell boaftful ftories.
Thou coward art thou bragging to the ftars ?

A very ingenious lady ufed to wear, in rings

to tie clofe with bandage*.
;
The women of China, by bracing and binding

;

1.

Ben yon/on.

and brace/els, ftoie of thofe gems.

To bind

«. To intend

Moxo/i,

To BRAG. 1/. », [braggeren, Dutch.]

Tie about our tawny wrifts

To BRACE. V. a. [embrajfer, Fr.]
I.

towards the up{>er end, that the very top
may be driven into, and buried in', the
board they nail down ; fo that the tops
of thefe brads will not catch the thrums
of the mops, when the floor is wafliing.

An ornament for the arms.
Both his handi were cut off, being known to
have worn bractUli of gold about his writh.

To

have not their heads

nail, but

made with a ftioulder over their ihank,
as other nails, but are made pretty thjck

Shakctfieare.

clamour ; to conteil noifily.
'\

penny

I here could pluck his bighncfs' frown upon you

1.

^ra'bbler. a.yl \ixci\a brabble.

Gib/tn.

Brad. n.f. A fort of nail to floor rooms
with. They are about the fize of a ten-

But you, my brace of lords, were I fo minded,

Here in the ftreets, defpcrate in Ihame and ilatc,
Sha\.
In private hrabhle did we apprehend him.

Chcyne.

and the

own hands fifty brace of phcafants,
Addtjon,
men in contempt.

Bra'celet. It,/, [bracelet, French.]

[from the noun.]

leave a

makes it unfit for

Gothick braid.

3. It is applied to

clamorous conteil ; a fquabble ; a broil.

y<> Bra'bblb. i». ».

(trainings hitherto

fpacious, from the Saxon bpab,

He is faid, thi$ fummer, to have (hot with his

.

artificial

BRAD, being an initial, figniflet broad,

a fportfman's word.

B p An abbreviation of biftiop.
BRA'BBLE. «./ \brabbckn, Dutch.] A

the

braekijhreji in fait water, that

animal uliu.

Down from a hill the beafts that reign in woods,

ly ; triflingly.

[from brackijh.\

n, f,

Saltnefs in a fmall degree.

A pair;

Firll hunter then, purfucd a gentle brace,

So'yishly. adv. [from io^'Jh.] Childifti-

[from itj,}

Blackmort.

Bra'ckishness.

but brace, in the f/ural.

Drytlcrt.

n. /.

n, /.

ther.]

Young men take up fume Englilh poet for llieir

$o'yi3m.

Holder,

[of uncertain etymology,
probably derived from two braced toge-

To whip this dwarfi/h war, thefc pigmy arms.

The wift eontrtver, on hii end Intent,

What other caufe could this e/lisft produce ?
The hrackijh tin^urc through the main difTufe >

when it lias loll its brace

or tenfion.

The king doth fmlle a:, and is well prepar'd

;

.

.

2.

The thing boafted.
Beauty is natui«:> ^''"JT' ""^ TimH be (hewn
In courts, at fealis, and high folemnitici.
Where
Milteti,
>(t may wonder.

m

Bragoado'cio. «. /. [from brag.]

A

puffing, fwelling, boaiting fellow.

The world abounds in terrible fanfarons, in the
mafque of men of honour } but tlicfc brargjdccict
are eaf> to be dete^ed.

L'£Jtrangt.

By tlic plot, you may guefs much of the cba<
rafters of the perfons; a braggadocio captain, a garafite, and

a lady of p leafure.

Vrydcn,

Bra'ccarsism.

—

,

!

BRA

BRA

is fituated.
The fubftance of the hraln is dlftinguilhed into outer and inner : the former is callci
cortkalhi dnerta, ov glamdukfa \ the latter, mcdulUrisj alba^ or rcrvca*
Cbejcldcn,
If I be Terved fuch another tricki V\\ have my

fulnefs ; vain otlentation.
Bra'cgart. atij. [from brag.'\ Boaftful ;

vainly ollentatious.
Shall I, norx's Oavc, of high bom or raii'd men
Fear tVowns ; and m»- miftreis, truth, betray thee

Th.it man proportionably hath the hrgcft brabsy
I cuiifefs, fomcwhat doubt, and conceived it
n^ight have tailed io b)rds, cf^^ecially fuch<is having
little bodies, have yet large cranies, and feem to contain much traittf as fnipes and woodcocks ; but,
upon trial, 1 find it very true. BroiCyCs ^'^i^^g' ^^^f-

2.

That

The ferpent deeping.

Miircr.
Full litrle thought of him the gentle knight.

part in which the underilanding

Who, flying death, had there coiiceai'd his fiight;

therefore taken for the underilanding.
is placecji

South,

Without

;

1'he force tliey are under is a real force, and
that ot their tare but an imaginary conceived one j
the one but in their ^rain:, the other on their

The bruit is, Hector's fiain, and by Achilles.

ihoulders,

If it is fo, tr^igicfs let it be,

A man

Grca: HeQor vas as good a man as he. Stai'ff.
Bf-A'cLY. adi: [horn irtrg,] Finely; fo

In brakei ani brambles hid, and Ihunaing mortal
fight.
Drydcns, Fables.

Hi^ttimord.
is firft

a geometrician

in his ^rsin^

fore he be fuch in hi. hand.

It is faid originally to meanyfrw.

2.

Brake, n.f.

An

1.

inilrument for

hemp of

drell?ng

be-

flax.

//j/t.

The handle of a fliip's pump.

this is not

2.

Secft not tbilic li-w Jioin ftuJ,
How hragly it begins to bud,

common, nor proper.
My fon Edgar had he a hand to write this, a

3.

A baker's kneading trough.

4..

A fliarp bit or fnaftie for horfes.

And uticr his tender head i

heart and hrain to breed it in

it

a.s

3.

may be bragged.

To BRAID, 'u. a. [bpxdan, Saxpn.J
weave together.
.

C.'ofe the

Sometimes the

affedlions:

!

Flora now calleth Jbrth each fl ««r.
Am! bids him make ready Maia's tower. Sptrfcr.

To

;

out the brains.

Why, as 1 told tb«, 'tis a cuftom with Mm
tV

ferpent fly,

afternoon lo ilecpj there thou

m:iy*ft

him.

Oficr wands, lying loofcly, may each ofthem be
from the reft ; but, when LriUtd
BiyU.
into a balket, they cohere (Irongly.
A ribband did the hraidtd trcITcs bind.

,

Sbahjftart.

Fit to be Aiot iwd brain' H, without ? proccA,
To Uop infcclioni that 's their proper death.

eafily dinbciated

The reft was loofe, and wanR^nM in the wind.
Since in Ira'uUd gold her foot is bound.
And a long trailini; manseau fwctps the ground,
Gjy.
Her (lioe difdains tho ftrcet.

Braid. «./. [from theverb] A texture

;

a knot, or complication of fomething
woven together
LiOen wtaen cliou art Opting,

Diydeti.

in twiAed btaltii of lilies knitting
1 he lo'ift! train of thy amber-dropping h jir. Aii/tcn.

:

'in

Bfhind tlit arriS liearingfomethlni? ftii,
'
", and crifs, a rat
^

,

_

aii;.

r\,

.

.'ihcirfpeare.

[from

brain.'\

billy;

thoughtlefs ; -witlefs.'
S:ime Ircinli-'
labour, broiigli-

rrien

'

;'

church

is

raor^ than of fainti.

'.-/j

".

A]a» come fafc
!ce3.

.

now,

An old word, which ieemi to

c/ecei'vi.'\

fignify deceitful.
Since Frenchmen are fo haU,
Marry 'em that will. I'll live and die a maid.
Shab^fjeare.

Bi ail's,

Small ropes
reeve'd through blocks, which are fcized
on cither fide the ties, a little off upon
the yard ; fo that they come down before
the fails of a Ihip, and are faftened at
the flcirtof the fail to the crenglcs. Their
n. ./.

[fca term.]

when the fail is furled acrofs, to
hail tip its bunt, that it may the more

tife is,

readily be taken

BRAIN,

n. f.

up or let fall.

Harrii.

Sax.

breyne,

[bparsen.

Dutch.].

That

colleflion of veffels

and organs

tion arife.
he brain is dj*,idrd into eerfirum and ctrtLfllum.

Cmhrum it that 7 art of the A/</m which polfefTes
all

the upper and fofptrt of the rntr:'<timy heir.^

fepjrated from the ceritcllatt by the fecond pro-

Vol. I.

-

..

j.^

Bra'inpan. n. /. [ham brain zni fan.1
Thi (ItiiH containing the brains.

No thruHtcs fiifiU the krnmbh bujh forlake. trVV.
//.

/ A bird, called alib

a mountain chaffinch.

DiB.

BRAN, n.f [bnmia, Ital.] The hulks of
corn ground ; the rcfufe of the lieve."
Fn.m me do back receive the flluw'r of a'l,

i

Ne* e into my hc.id my trairfiaii glows, Dryd.
Bra'jnsick. 'adj. [froni brain ant] fiL]
fii

•

'^

Bra'mbling.

With rhoie huge bellows, in his hands, he blo^v?

And leave me buttheircs,
Siakrlpcar'.
The citizens we e driven to -rent diftie(s,f'>r
want of vlfiu.Js ; b^ead they ma le of the coaifcit

;

Difeafed in the underftanding : addle-

moulded In cloaths j for othtrwife it would
n jt cleave toj;cthrr.
Uay-.vifd,
In the fifiing of fourteen years of power and
favour, all that came out could not be pure mtal,
brsii,

ht-adcJ ; giddy ; thoughtlefs.

Nor once d:je6l the couiagc of our minds,
Becaufc CalTandra 'i maJ licr btiiiJifiik raptures
;

Cannot diftjlic the giodnefs of a quarrel.
Slvi.
They were trainjSck men, who could neillier
endure the government of their king, nor vet

but mud have among it a certain mixture of padar
a .d bran, in this lower age of luiinan fragility.

the authors of their deliver-

Then water him, and drinking whnt ho can.
Encourage him to third again with bran. DryMi-

thanltfiilly receive

ance.

•'

KiioUci.

Br a'i NSiCKi.y. adv.
Weakly hcadily.

[from brainjlck.]

;

in the head, from which fenfe and mo'i

.-»

deifying the nameof Rsp•
Sl->akcfj.tan.

al', foj'lo.Ttli,

Thy youngling-!, CuJdy, sre but jud awiliV,

iH'ahc'fearr.

who, cxfcll'd the t nvn,
and pedantick gown,
Aw'd by dry name, is dumb.
Thkdl.
-

brair.hlcSy

Haiitr.

If,'

,

1'-

It is taken, in popular language, for
any rough prickly flirub.
Tiic bulh my beJ, the irflw/i c was my bowV,
The woods can witncfs many a wor'u) ftote. Stf.njlr,
There is a man haunts the foreft, that abules

ftlind.
(

:

our young yiann with carving Kofalind ort their
barks; hangs odes upon hawthi-rns, and elegies on

have, by great travel .and

-o paf», that fhe

^'-

In graLelUt^rtJKii, wilii various fit>kH>ii bound. fivV;.

2.

henfion, kills

i,

Braid, ad;. [To irede, in Chaucer, is to

Miller.
Content with food which nature freely bred.

Cornels anJ brtuvhli berries gave the reft,
Ani t"allii;g acorns furnilh'J out a lead. Dryden,

Hcu.V
The u:

the rafpberry

On wldings and on ftrawberries they fei

In his icwlcls fit,

ArJ,

«

The blackberry bufh ;
bu fit, or hindberry.

Ptfi.

•

a

:

It
.

Lat.]

BitA'iNiSH. a.^f. [from brain.] Hotheaded ; furious
cerebrofus ia Latin.

ai'i.i'!

int:

BRA'MBLE. n.f. [bpemlap Sax. ruLs,
T.

ca.1,

Bra'inless

Under the glolly, cool, tranflueent wave,

.

where they lie hid and overgrown with thorns, to
a pure, open light, where they may take the eye,
and m.y be taken by the hand.
£eti JonJ'aii.

Vzxz (t'lz'd two wrctcKcs more, and headlong
T/j ;;'a »n the rode, his fecond dire repaft.

Prjdev

1;

hones, unwilling to be ftiod, are confined during that operation.
Bra'ky. adj. [from braie.] Thorny;
prickly ; rough.
Redeem arts trom their rougli and b-raky feat.s',

Outlawi of nature,

Miltm.

Gave pro.if unheeded.

Or

i'

Bruin'

Die7.

A fmith's braie is a machine in which

Sbakcffeijre.

.''

7q Brain, f. a. [from the noun.] To
daih out the brains
to kill by beating

InGnuating, wove with gordian twine
His knUlai ^in, and of his fatal guile

1,

A dog of tills town uled daily to fetch meat,
and to carry the fame unto a blind mafliff, that
lay in a brake without the town.
Careiu,
If I'm traduc'd l>y tongues, which neither know
My faculties nor perfon ; let me fay,
'Tis but the fate of place, and the rough brake
That virtue muft go through.
Shaiefpejre,
In every buih and Irakc, where hap may had

\ diet,

a boaft; without oftentation.
I

A thicket of brambles, or of thorns.

1,

Sbakfjj?eare''s Merry fV'i^ei offf^iffdj-.y,

A

Kmiln.

fpcech.

BRAKE, n.f. [of uncertain etymology.]

dog for a new year's gift.

an oftentatious fellow.

them, in convcrie, empty sr.d iniipid.
adj. [fiom brag.]

with (harp words, and brake out into this chnlcrick

hrains ta.'«n,put|. and -buttered, and fi)vet}>cm to a

Who knows himftlt' 3 brjgrart,
Lf t him fiar this ; for it will come to pals,
Shai.
That every brjggart (hall be f;und an als.
boafter ;
Bra'gger. n.f. [from Inag.]

Bra'cless.

The preterite of break.
He thought it fufficicnt to corte^t tiie multitude

Brake.

.

To th' hutfing, l-rji^„rt, putt nobility f Durnf.
Bra'cgart. »./ [from drag.] A boafter.

SiK-h as have had cppotfunity to found thcfe
<r<j^^(r«chorcugSK, b> having fomctimcs endured
the penioce ot thiir fott:lh cimpany, have fnunJ

ofthe dura mnuri under which llio teychetluM

ccfs

Bra'ggardism. «./ [from Irrag.] Boafl-

BH A

BRANCH, it.f [branche, French.]
I

.

Why, worthy Thane,
You do imbend your noble llrc.igth to think
So Irairjiikly of things.

El a'insickness. n.f. [from brainjici.]

diamond.

i>/<s>.

from one of the

Shokefptar^
z.

Br A IT. »./. Among jewellers for a rough

tree

Why grow the branchii, when the root is gone ?
Whjr wljhcr not the leaves that want their lap ?

Shdkejjitrre.

Indifcretion ; giddinefs.

The Ihoot of a
main boughs.

Any membir

part of the whole;

or

any dilVinft article

;

any fedion or fub-

divifion.

F f

y-otr

;

!

Your oathi

are fi&, and

now fubfci'ibc year

iranek out, on (U fides, Into feveral different div!.

That hi« own hand may ftrike his honour down,
•That violates the fmalleft irarcb herein. Shaitfp.
The belief of this was of fpecial importance,
to confirm our hopes of another life, on which io
many hrancba of chriftian piety do immediately
Hammord.
depend'
In the fcTeral iranchtt of juftice and charitj',
comprehended in thofe general rules, of loving our
neighbour as ourfclves, and of doing to others as
we would have them do to us, there is nothing
TiUtipr.
but what i» moft fit and reafonable.
This precept will oblige us to perform our duty,
Hccotding to the nature of the various iranrhrs of
R^l.rs.

it.

Any part that (hoots out from the reft.

If we would weigh, and keep in our minds,
is we are confidering, that would beft
inftru£t us when we Ihould, or (hould not, branch
Locke.
into farther diftinftions.

what it

Clerks convicl (hoxild be burned in the hind,
both bccaufe they might tafte of fonie corporal
punilhment, and that they might carry a brand of
Baccn.
infamy.
The rules of good and evil are inverted, and «
brand of infamy palTes for a badge of honour.
t'EjIrange.

To fpeak diffufively, or with the dif-

3.

tinftion of the parts of a difcourfe.
I have known a woman branch out into a long
differution upon the edging of a petticoat. SfeH.

To have horns (hooting out into ant-

4.

Where did his wit on learning fix a brand.
And rail at arts he did not undcrfland ? Dry.im,
7o Brand, 'v. a. [hranden, Dutch.] To
mark with a brand, or note of infamy:

The fwift (lag from under ground
Milton.

Bore up his branching head.

To Branch, -v. a.

Have 1 liv'd thus long a wife, a true one, Sbakeffeart.
Never yet branded with I'ufpicion ?

To divide as into branches.

1.

Any note of infamy.

J.

lers.

And fix brancbts Ihall come out of the fides of

A mark made by burning a criminal
with a hot iron, to note jiim as infaroous ; a (bgma.

4,

Miijm.

fions.

naroei,

3.

BRA

BRA.

BRA

The fpirits of things animate are, all continued

To adorn with needlework, reprefenting

The king was Afar branded, by P<Tkin 3 proclamation, for an execrable breaker ol the rights
Bacsn.
of holy church*
Brand not their anions with fo foul a name ;
Pity, at leaft, what we are forc'd to blame. Dryd.
Ha dare not for thy life, 1 charge thee, dare not

A fmaller river ranning into, or pro

flowers and fprigs.

To brand the fpotlefs virtue of my prince. Rnve.

ceeding from, a larger.

That from her ihoulder to her heel iovm raught,

It ; three irancbei of the candlcftick out of the
one fide, and three brexcbti of the candlcftick out

Ex'Jus.
of the other fide.
His blood, which difperfeth itfelf by the branchu
of veins, may be refcmbled to waters carried by
Raleigh.

brooks.

4.

any hrancb be feparated and divided, \ then, where that irancA doth
firft bound itfelf with new banks, there is that part
of the river, where the branch forfjketli the main
Raleigh.
ftream, called the head of the river.
If,

from a main

river,

Any part of a family defcending in a

5.

collateral line.
His father, a younger bramb of the ancient
flock planted in Somerfetfliire, took to wife the
Cariw.
widow.
6. The offspring ; the defcendant.
Great Anthony Spain's well-befeeming pride,
"Viou mighty branch of emperours and kings

within themfelves, and are branched into canals,
as blood is ; and the fpirits have not only branches,
but ceruln cells or feats, where the prineipal fpirjts
Bacon.
do refide.

2.

!

Our Punick faith

In robe of hly white (he was array'd.

jlJdifon,
Is infamous, and branded to a proverb.
The fpreader of the pardons anfwercd him an
herefy.
Atterbury.
eafier way, by branding him with

The train whereof loofc far behind her ftray'd
Branched mtii gold and pearl, moil richly wrought.

Bra'ndgoose. v./. A kind of wildfowl,
lefs than a common goofe, having its

Sf>infer.

Bra'ncher. ». /. [from iraaeh.]
1. One that (hoots out into branches.

bread and wings of a dark colour. Di3.
To Bra'ndish. 'V. a. [from brand, a

If their child be not fuch a fpcedy fpreader and
brancber, like the vine, yet he may yield, with a
little longer expeSation, as ufeful and more fober
ff^orion.
fruit than the other.

fword.]
1.

In Falconry, a young

2. [brancbier, Fr.]

Difdaining fortune, with his handijh'd Rte],
Like valour's minion, carved out his fitftgc Shai,
He faid, and brandijhing at once his blade.
With eager pace purfued the flaming (hade. Dryd,
Let me march their leader, not their prince
And at the head of your renown'd Cydonians
Smith.
Brandifij this fword.

enlarge my difcourfe to the obfervation of the
eires, the brancber, and the two forts of lentners.
I

\

Crajhanv.

H^alun.

The antlers or (hoots of a (lag's horn. Bra'nchiness. n, /. [from branchy,
8. The branches of a bridle are two pieces
branches.

7.

Farrier's Did.
9.

Bra'nchless. adj. [from branch.'\

If
I lofe myfelf ;

P<^e.
rude, and unwieldy loppings of a bramlij tree at
H'altt.

once ?

BRAND, n.f. [bfianb, Saxon.]

A (lick lighted, or

1.

Have I caught thee ?

He that parts us Ihall bring
And fire us hence.

If, with double diligence, they labour to retrieve

the hours they have 1oft, they (hall be faved
though this is a fervicc of great difficulty, and
Rogers,
like a brand plucked out of the fire.
2.

branJar,
fword, in old language.
[branJo, Ital.

Tlicy looking back,

and diAindl

The Alps at the one end, and the long range of
Appeuiues that fxSki thtuugh

tJic

body of it.

all th'

Runick.]

ticular worm.

The dew-worm, which fome alfo call the lobWahtn,
worm, and the brandfing, are the chief.
Bra'ndv. ». /. [contrafted from brande-

A ftrong liijuor

diftilled from wine.
If your mailer lodgcth at inns, every dram of
brandy extraordinary that you drink, raifeth hia
Sici/i's Footman.
charaSer.

Bra'ndy-wine.

The fame with ^»-/i«<^.
A

hair of the
has been a common faying,
fame cog ; and thought that brandy-wine is a
Wijeman^
common relief to fuch.
It

BRA'NGLE. n.f. [uncertainly derived.]
Squabble ; wrangle ; litigious conteft.
The payment of tytncs is lubjeft to many
other difficulties, not only
from papifts and difTcntcrs, but even from thofe
frauds, brangles, and

who prijjfefs themfelves proteftants.

Smifr.

To Bra'ngle, "v. n. [from the noun.]
To wrangle ; to fquabble.

A

When jiolite convcrfing (hall be improved, company will be no longer peftercd w:th dull ftirySwift.
tcllcrs, nor brangl.ng difputers.

eallern fide beheld

Wav'd over by that flaming brand the gat;
With dreadful faces throng'd, and fiery arms.
\

Milton.

3.

Bra'ndling. »./. The name for a par-

;

Of Paradife, fo late their happy feat

AlJifin,

into fcparate

brand from heav'n.

This little brand will ferve to lightyour fire. Dryd.

Her arms fliot out, and branching into boughs.

To fpread

i.

Shakefpeare.
Take it, (he faid, and when your needs require,

Drydm.

parts and fubdivifions.

to be lighted, in

the fire.

One fees her thighs transform'd, another views

2.

fit

to flourilh.

luine, or burnt luine.]

What carriage can bear away all the various,

and there rooted betwixt thctn fuch an affeilion,

;

only in brandijhing of fyllogifms, will difcover very
Ltcle.
lit.le.

mine honour,

better I were not yours.

Trees on trees overthrown
Fall crackling round him, aud the forells groan ;
Sudden full twenty on the plain are (Irow'd,
And lopp'd and lightcn'd of their branchy load.

Te Branch, "v. n. [from the noun.]
1. To fpread in branches.
They were trained together in their childhoods,
The caufe of fcattering the boughs, is the hafty
breaking forth of the fap j and therefore thole
trees rife not in a body of any height, but branch
near the ground. The caufe of the pyramis, is the
keeping in 0/ the fa'p, long before it branch, and
the fpending of it, when it beginneth to branch,
Bac6n.
by c<^ual degrees.
Plant it round with Ihade
Of laurel, evergreen, zndbranching plane. Miltcn.
Straight OS a line in beauteous order flood
Of oake unlhorn a venerable wood ;
Frefh was the grafs beneath, and ev'ry tree
At diflance planted, in a due degree,
Thc'it irancling arms in air, with equal fpace,
Stretck'i to their neighbours with a long embtace.

life

To play with

He, who (h;ill employ all the force of his reafon

Shaieffeare.
Than yours fo branchlefi.
aci;. [from branch.'] Full of
branches ; fpreading.

make

which cannot choofc but ^r<iiicj& now. Hhakefpcarc.

I

2.

Bra'nchy.

the fides of the
fquare, of which the arches are diagoHarris.
nals.
arches, which

Without (hoots or boughs,
Without any valuable produft ; naked.

z.

The

arches of Gothick vaults ; which arches tranfverfing
ftom one angle to another, diagonal
wife, form a crofs between the other

[In architefture.]

'\

Fulnefs of

I.

between the one and the other.

as a

Brave Macbeth,

hawk.

!

of bended iron, that bear the bit-mouth,
the chains, and the curb, in the interval

To wave, or (hake, or flourilh,
weapon.

A thunderbolt.
The fire omnipotent prepares the brand.
By Vulcan wrought, and arms his potent hand.
CranvUle.

Bra'nclement.

n.f. [from brangU.']
TIic fame with branch.
B R A N K n.f. Buckwheat, or brank, is a
grain very ufeful and advantageous in
Mortimer.
dry barren lands.
Bra'n.mv. «(^'. [from ^r/j».] Having the
.

appearance of bran.

;

.

.

;

BRA

BRA
It became ferpiginom, and was,

adj.

bra/s.

It is

[from

brafs,'^

IViffnijr..

Made of

a brat in hanging-ficcves.
1 give command to kill orfave.

Moxon.

%.

A pan to hold coals,

The two late confpiracies were the brats and

A boaft

^rbutbnot.

years before the difcovery of that country ; and the beil fort -comes from Fernambuc.
It is ufed by turners, and
takes a good polifh ; but chiefly in dying, though it gives but a fpurious red.

Chambers.

BRASS. »./. [bpaj-, Sxx. pres, Wellh.]

Men's evil manners live in brafi^ their virtues

;

daring ; bold ; generous

that his genius, which otlierways was brave and
confident, was, in the pretence of Odtavius Caefar,

poor and cowardly.

Bacon.

Is to be found.

From armed fees to bring a royal prize.

Let princes choofe minifters more fenfiblc of
duty than of riling, and fuch as love bufinefs, rather upon confcicnce than upon bravery.
Bacon,

IVaUcr.

2.

Gallant ; having a noble mien 5 lofty ;
graceful.
I'll

prove the prettier fellow of the two,

And wear my dagger with a travcr grace.
3. Magnificent ; grand.

4. Bravado ; boaft.
Never 'could man, with more unmanlike bravery, ufe his tongue to her difgrace, which lately
had fung fonnets of her praifes.

Shak.

Rings put upon his fingers,

There are thofe that make it a point cf bravery, to bid defiance to the (ra:Ics of divine reve.

But whofoe'er it was nature dcfign'd

Bra'vo. n.f.

Excellent ; noble : it is an indeterminate word, ufed to .exprefs the fuperabundancc of any valuable quality in
men or things.

For boldncfs, like the bravoes and banditti, is
feldom employed, but upon dcfperate fcrvices.
Government of the Tongue*
No bravoes here profefs the bloody trade.
Nor is the church the murd'rer's refuge madc-

Gcy,

To BRAWL.

a brave

1.

commodity where wood aboundeth.

Bacon.
If a ftatefman has not this«fcience, he muft

Brave, n. /.

And pluck commifeiation of his ftate
From brajT) bofoms, and rough hearts of flint.

1.

Sbaltrffeare.

Impudent.

!

here ?

A heftor ; a man daring beyond decency or difcretion.
Hot braves, like that, may fight, but know not

Docs this become your place, your time, your bufinefs ?
Shakefpeare's Henry IV.
Their batt'ring cannon charged to the mouths.
Till their foul-fearing clamours have bratvl'ddowa
The flinty ribs of this contemptuous city. Shak,
,

well

That back returned without heavenly grace,
But dreadful furies which their chains have brajit
And damned fprights fent forth to make ill men
agall.

Sfcnftr.

Erat. n./.

[its etymology is uncertain;
bpart, in Saxon, fignifies a blanket
from which, perhaps, the modern figniiication may have come.]

A child, fo called in contempt.
He leadi tii'.m like a thing
Made by fome other deity than nature,
That Ihapcs man better; and they follow him,
Againft us bratt, with no lets confidence.
Than boys purfuing fummer butterflies. Shaktff.
This bral is none of mine !
Hence with it, and, together with the dam.

Commit them to the 6:e»
Shakiff:cart.
The friends, that got the brats, were poifon'd
(00 ;

In this fad cafe what could our vermin de >
Rojiimm'jn.

Dryden.

in council ihc gives licence to her tongue.
Loquacious, brati'ling, ever in th^ wrong. Dryden.
Leave all noify coutefts, all immodeil clamours,
ij-aiu/iw^ language, and efpcclally all pcrfonal fcandal and fcurrility, to the meaneft part of the vulgar

Mofat '5 too infolent, too much a Iravi,

Obfoieie.
There creature never part,

His courage to his envy is a Have.
2.

Orydcn.

A boaft

a challenge ; a defiance.
;
There end thy bra-ve, and turn thy face in peace

i

We grant tlwu canft outfcold us.
Shakcfpeare.
To Brave, t). a. [from the noun ]
1

To defy ; to challenge

;

to fet at de-

world.

2.

He upbraids lago, that he made him
Brave me upo-i the watch.
Shahff>care.
My nobles leave me, and my (late is bravd,
Ev'n at n>y gates, with ranks of foreign powers.
ShakiJ^eare.
The ills of love, not thofe of fate, I fear

Thefc I can brave, but thofe I cannot bear. Dryd.
Like a rock unmov'd, a rock that brjvjs
"^hc raging tepipell, and the riling w-avcs. Dryden.
2. To carry a boading appearance of.
Both particular pcrfons and fa^ions arc apt
enough to flatter themfeivcs, or, at leafl, to breve
that which they believe not.
Bacon.

Bra'vely. ad'v. [from bra've.] In a
br%ve manner; courageoufly ; gallant-

H^atli.

To fpeak loud and indecently.
His divifions, as the times <io brawl.

fiance.

ly ; fplendidly.

that it might be.

Hath often ftiU'd my bratvling difcontent. Stai,
How now ? Sir John what, are you bratttFing

[brat-e, Fr.]

To manage this, the laft great (lake.

lil.i.i.T.farucip. adj. [from^wr/?.] Burft ;

!

Here comes a man of comfort, whofe*3dvicc

Viz'-y

Knough to prefs a royal merchant duwo.

braukr,

To quarrel noifily and indecently.
She troubled was, alas

^

Hard as brafs.

\_brouiIler, or

n.

With tti'ious, hraiulings of her parents dear. Sidney,

be fubjcft to a brai'cr man tiian himfelf, whofe
province it is t<) dire
all his anions to this end.

WoDdiuard.

<v.

^']

Sidney.

Partaking of brafs.
The part in which they lie, is near black, with

A man who

!

Old wood inflim'd doth yield the bravc/f fire,
When younger doth in fmokc his virtue fpend.
is

[bra-vo, Ital.j

murders for hire.

Let not old age difgracc my high defirc,

O heavenly foul, in human Ihapc contain'd

VEftrange,

lation.

Denbam.

If there be iron ore, and mills, iron

Bacon,

Dublin.

Firll a ^ri.v« place, and then as brave a mind.

brafs.

Sidney,

For a bravery upon this occafion of power, they
crowned their new king in the cathedral church of

And brave attendants near him, when he wakes ;
Would not the beggar then forget himfelf? Siat.

4.

Spenfcr,

Show; oilentation.

3.

Shows your b^O've heart viilorious as your eyes.

Vryd.

Loflirs,

Splendour ; magnificence.
Where all the bravery that eye may fee.
And all the happincfs that heart dcfire,

z.

An Egyptian foothfaycr made Antonius believe,

Br a'ssy. adj. [from brafs.]
fome Iparks of a hraffj pyrites in it.

Anonymous.

high-fpirited.

2. Impudence.
Bra'ssin ESS. ».yr [from ^ffl^.] An appearance like brafs ; fome quality of

I.

It denotes no great bravery of mind, to do that
out of a dcfire of fame, which wc could not be
prompted to by a generous palllon for the glory of
*
him that made us.
SpeBator*
Juba, to all the bravery of a hero.
Adds fofteft love, and more than female fweetnefs,
Add'fon.

a brag.

Courageous

1

^ bakLfj>faru

Let others mold tile running mafs
Of metals, and inform the breathing brafs.

broken.

;

Names it the in-.inciblc Armado.

A yellow metal made by mixing copper with lapis calamiaaris. It is ufed,
in popular language, for any kind ot
metal in which copper has a part.
Brctfs is made of copper and calaminaris. Bacon,
We write in water.

^.

gallantry.

BRAVE, adj. [braw, Fr.]

:

2.

Courage ; magnanimity ; generofity ;

I .

South.

Brava'do. n. /. [from bra<vada, Span.]

had no chimneys, but were

Brasi'l. In./. An American wood,
Brazi'l. i commonly fiippofed to have
been thus denominated, becaufe firft
brought from Brafil though Huet fliews
it had been known by that name many

1.

Bra'verv. n./. [from braoje.]

Spain, to make good the bravado,

warmed with coats on brajitri.

1

Drjdin,
Sivift.

offspring of two contrary ladiions.

[probably from

Denham,

Your valour bravely did th' affault fuftain,

And fiU'd the motes and ditches with the (lain.

The progeny ; the oiFspring.

embrafer, Fr.]
It is thought they

Who bravely twice renew'd the light.

Sivift.

Can grant ten thoufand pounds a-ycar.
And make a beggar's brat a peer.
2,

Bacon.

No lire, nor foe, nor fate, nor night.
The Trojan hero did affright.

was obliged, and whom I never beheld lince fiie was

There is a fellow foraewhat near the door, he

turners lathe.

Martin Swart, with his Germans, performed
bravely.

whom 1

I (hall live to lee the invifible lady, to

now lefs properly written,

according to the pronunciation,- brazen.
Bra'sier. II. f. [U cm bra/s.']
1. A manufafturer that works in brafs.
Sbaktffeart.
Ihould be a trajirr by his face.
Braftin that turn andirons, pots, kettles, (§c.
have their lathe maJe different from the common

BRA

Jupiter fummoncd all the birds and beads before
him, witli their brjts and little ones, to fee whicij
of them had the prettieft children.
UEjirangt.

when I (aw it,

ttfvcred with white branny fcales.

Bra'sen.

;

Are in three heads ; one pow'r againll the French,

And one againft Glendowcr.
3.

To make a noife.

Sbakefpeare,

This is little ufed.

As he lay along
Under an oak, whofe antique root peeps out

Upon the brook that bra-wls along this wood. Shah,

Bkawl. n./. [from the verb.]

Quarrel;

noife ; fcurrility.

He findcth, that controrerfies thereby arc mads
but braivls ; and therefore wilheth, that, in fomJ
lawful ad'embly of churches, all thefc ftrifcs may
be decided.

Hooker,

Never fince that middle fummcr's fpring
Met wc on hill, in dale, forcft-, or mead,
But with thy bratvts thou hall difturb'd our fpott.
Sbakefpeare..

Ff•

That

"

;

;

.

BRA

out the caufe.

BRAWN. »./ [of uncertain etymology.]
1. The flelhy er mufculous part of the
body.
The brawn of the arm tcm\ appear full,
tiica

fliew

(h.i-

Bat moft theirlooks on the black monarch bend,
His fifing mulcles and his irawB commend j
His double biting ax, and beamy fpcar,
Dryden.
Each afking a gigantick force to rear.
2. The arm, fo called for its being mufJ'll

'

.

Staktjfcrc,

^

I had purpoie

3.

With this dircfling head, thnfe hands apply

To harden to impudence.

Made of brafs.

1.

Jeats, at which time it is bed to geld him, or fcil
Ahrtimer.
'film for bratvn,

A boar.

5.

Impudent.

3

Then if you would fend up ihcbraivr.er head,

'7e

[from irarvfiji, ]

»./

Strength ; hardnefs.
This bramninejs ani infenfibility of mind, is the
common evils and acciLmkc.
dents of life.

beft armour againft the

Bra'vvny.

[from brazvn.'\ Mufcubulky; of great mufclcs

adj.

lous ; flelhy;

and llrength.
The irazony fool, who did his vigour biad,

To BRAY. I",

I will iray

Chapman.
His bones as in a mortar.
Except you wou'.d bray Chriftendom in a mortu,
and mould it into a new parte, there is no polTibiBacm.
Mty of a holy war.

To Br AY. f. n.

Laugh, and they
Return it -uder than an afs can bray.
'Agad if he Ibould hear the lion
1

Will faid, irflWff/Jrir J hold it out.

Impudent ; fhamelefs.
What a braxafaced varlet art" .thou, to deny
Is it two days ago, fince I tript
tV)U krtoweft me

Bra'zenness. n./. [from braxen.]

,

oien^'

,

.

:

I

H.)rriWe difcord.

Brav. >;./. [from the verb.]

• Voice of an afs.
i.

Harlh found.

Milun.

And had but juil enough tj buy her bread. Dryd
When I fubtnit to fuch iadigmtics.
Make me a citizen, a fenator of Rome;
To fell my country, with my Voice, for irc-d.
Philips.

neither have been bred a fcholar, a foldier,
nor to any kind of bufinefs ; this creates uneafiiieis
in lov mind, fearing I ihall in time want bread.
I

them to the brazier, you would not lofe
Umifi.

Staiejftari.

'

Th? fta?e of being broken.
O y ju kind gods
,

,

,

:

i'

*

-

reward of virtue bread f

Pope.

;

fervant ; an under butler.
No abufe, H.d, on my honour; no abufc.—
•N-it to difpraife me, and call mc pantler, and

Bread-corn. »./ [from ^rt^^/ an J ;»/«.]
Corn of which bread is made.

Skji.

iSe bread,

/•

•

,

and bread-corn,

fuffic.-d

days.

A gap in a fortification made by a
battery.

is the

Tht re was not one drop of beer in the town
!,

Cure this great irea.h in his ahufod n.iture.
3.

.'

BREAD-cnrP?ER. v.f. [from bread mdi
a baker's
chip.] One that chips bread

tread-ehipper, an.l 1 know not v/hat i Sialfpeiire.

This tempeft

D ifliing the garment of t^is peace, aboded
The fuJden triach on't.

3.

But fjnictimes virtue ftarves, while lice is fed ;

Breach. »./ [irctm breai breche, Fr.]
The aft of breaking any thing.

2.

S/^eflatcr.

Support of life at large.
God is pleafed to try our patience by the in-

What thert

The halfpence and farthings in England, if you

greeable noifcj
What, (h»U our feaft b« kept with flaughter'd
Shall Irayhe trumpets, and loud churlilh drum;,
Clamours of hell, be meafurcs to our pomp? Siai.
Arms on armour clalhing, bray'il

VEpange.
them bread.
This dowager, on whom my tal? 1 found,

find

gratitude of tfiofe who, having eaten of our bread,
ATwi; Cbaria.
have lift up themfelvcs againft us.

Appearance like brafs.
2. Impudence.
Bra'zier. »./ SeeBRAsrER.
1.

(hciuld fell

as

In the fweat of thy face /halt tliou eat bread.
GenijU.
If pretenders were not fiipperted by the fimpiiwould
rot
trade
the
city of the inqv.ifitive fools,

Shaiif^fare.

Quick-witted, braxtnfac'd, with fluent tongues,
Paiient of labours, and diffembling wronri. Dryd.

he'd

To make an offenfive, harlh, or difa-

Pope.

nature requires : to get bread, implies, to get
fufiicient for fupport without luxury.

Food in general, fuch

up thy heels, and beat thee before the king ?

;

roar,

Bread, that decaying man with ftrength fupplics
And generous wine, which thoughtful forrow flics.

?

1 .

cudgel him into an afs, and, to bis primitive IrayCongrfve^
ing.

2.

Shakrjftare.

above a penny in a (hilling.
Dryicr.,

Mankind have found the me:ins to make grairt
into bread, the lighteft and propcreft ailment fur
Jirbuthcot.
- human bodies..

A fimple fober life in patience led.

You do, if you fufpcft me in any diflionefty.

[iroire, Fr. barrio, Lat.]

To make a noife as an afs.

1.

Food made of ground corn.

..

language.

a.

him ;

low

in

:

Bra'zenfaced. adj. [ from braxcnface. ]

[bpacan. Sax. hraier,
Fr.] To pound, or grind fmall.
I'll burft

and

bra.%i.n

An impudent wench

Clarendon.

BREAD. «./ [bpiob, Saxon.]

Bra'zen. w.n. To be impudent j to

Bra'zenface. ?/. /. [from

DryJcn.
la that prefuming confidence was loll.
The native energy
Turn* all into the fubftancc of the tree,
S:arves and de.ltoys tlie fruit, is only made
For brJivny bulk, and for a barren (hade. IJryilcn.

of

Infraftion ; injury.
Tills breach upon kingly power was wicl«5ut

I.

bully.
Wlien I reprimanded him for his tricks, he
would talk fiu-ily, lye, and brazen'tx. out, as if he
Arbutbncl,
had done nothing amifs.
face.]

'

,'"
kindriefs.
It would have' been -long fcfefore the jealoufies
and i-Kflfirt between the armies would have bten
Clarendon.
compofed*

Trumpeters,
With brazen din bbft you the cit)''s ear,
Make mingle with your rattling tabourines. Shai

See the old tenant's table be the fame ;

^'"S*

;

His heavier arms lay fcatter'd on the pl.iin. Dryd.
2. Proceeding from brafs : a poetical ule.

At Chrirtmas time be careful of your fame.

feparation

quarrel ;

precedent.

Pe^icham.

A bough his brazen helmet did fuftain

killed for the table.

Bra'wniness.

Sptnfer.

Difference;

6.

7.

fine ruler, for taking the diftance.

Bra'wner. n.yl [from^-«w».] A boar

Sweet roicmary and bays around it tpre.id.

That th' utmoft fandy breach they fhortly feCch^
While the dread danger does behind remain.

and

It was anciently

Get alfo a fmall pair oi brazin compalTes, and a

The bi-ft age for thetoar is fro.Ti two to five
'

did

ftrongly forth

'

properly written brafen.

4.. The ilefh of a boar.

heedful boatman

'

Bra'zen. at/J. [from brafs.']

DryJeti.

Braicn without brain is thli:e.

Mi-xcn.

th'

His brawny arms, and all his bidy ftrain

If damned ciiftom hath not b'raz'J it fo.
That it is proof and bulwark againft fenfe. Siak.

Shaiclfeare.

Balk; mufcular ftrength.
The boift'rous hasds are then of ufo, when I,

Rigers*

ftretch

I have fo often bluflied to acknowledge him,
Stattfi, King Lear,
that now 1 am lirax'J to it.

Once more to hew thy target from thy kraien.
•

But

only
hath a worm brazed into it, this nicencfs is not fo
abfolutely neceffary, bccaufe that worm is firft
turned up, and bowcJ into the grnives of the fpindle ; and you may tiy that before it is braze,! ip

2.

by

affixed

The opening in a cball.

J.

the nut.

aad the penalties

of morality j

If the nut be not to be call in brafs, but

hide my filver beard in a gold beaver,

.

bounds of decency and virtoc.

To folder with brafs.

And in my vantbracc put thiswichcr'd bratvn.

•

God to xht breach of thofc laws, the only guards
that can eft'cclually relirain mfn within th': true

To Braze, "v. a. [from braj's.']

culous.

-

The laws of the ^ofptl arc the only ftanding
rules

[With printers ; from Tc hrny, or beat.l
An inftrument to temper the ink.

1

,

!

!

2.

.

liations, wliicli do foifeit all right in a nation toBacon.
g!vern
Breieb of duty towards our neighbours, ftill inSouth.
volves in it a irwriof duty towards God.

!

Pefe.

wiiiKbone
Piacham.

tiic

thereof.

;

cr.ed the queen ; a cat-&aU ejich fliall
win
Equal your merits, equal is your din
But, that this well-difputed game may end,
Sound forth, my irayers! and the welkin rend.

Hold

.^^

That uath. would fure contain them grc.iOy, «».
i
thiB*i»-*f/i of it bring ihem to fliorter vengeanc*.
,;••'.,'!
Sfnjir.
.,
/
Whit fir« thofe brtachei of (he Uw.of nature and
•

One that brays like an afs.

Aylifff.

; ;

The violation of a law or cpntraft.

,4.

BRA'yER. n. /, [from iray.'\
1.

—

;

.

B R E

Boift'rous untun'd drums.
And harflj refounding trumpets dreadful bray.
Sttkiheerc,

for being tbraivkr in court, on pur(>ofe ti> lengthen

on one Cdej

-

B R E

Th»t bonnm is an anlnislj
MiJe good wuh llout iDlcmick hratv!. TfaMres.
Bra'wler. »./. [from ^ivm'/.] Awrang•Icr ; a quarr elfome, noify fellow.
An advocate may incur the cenfute of the court,

liowed

—

'

not for

fi.t

Hayward.

When it is ripe they gather it, and, biuifing
it

among ifead-corn, they put i: up into a ve:icl,

and k«ep it as food for their flavcs.

Sroon,c.

The wall was bhwti upiti twophct* } by v»hich
hch the Turks feeking" to have entered, made
brh

Bread-room. n.f. [In a (hip.] Apart

Knolku

of the hold feparatcd by a bulk-head

bloody fight.

Till mad wifii rags upon Jthe hr'ach he fir'd.
Slew friends- and foes, and in tlje iidoke retired.

from the reft, where the bread and bifcuit for tUe men are kept.

Breadth.

; ;;

!

Breadth, n.f. [from bpab, broad, Saxon.] The meafure of any plain fuperfrom fide to fide.

There

in T'cimim, a church

is,

BR E

B R E

B R E

iicies

;

;

that

hstli

Whyt!icu thou can'ft not break hei to tl-.elute.—
for Ae hath br^ie the In e to mc. Sbak.
So fed before he 's irch, he 'il bear

Whv, no

Too great a ftomach patiently to feel
The !a:h;ng wii p.orche-.v the curbing fteel.

Brt/wrl.
mjy excel it.
Then »l! approach the (lain with vaft furprize,

Virtues like thefe
Make human nature Aine, reform the foul.

Dyd.

Admire on what a triaJih of earth he lies.

In our G-.thick cathedrals, the narrownels of
the arch makes it rife in height j the I-^nnefs
j^Jif^Jan,

opens it in lreiid:h*

curb,

And breaks the fiercenefs of his native temper!

To make bankrupt.
The king's grown bankrupt, like a hroken man.

Mark.
Let us hfeak thc'r bands afunder. and caft away
their cnrds from us.

Pjalmi.

A bruifcd reed ihall he not break,

Ijaiab*

Sef , faid the fire, how foon 'tis done j
The fticks he then inie one fcy one :

So ftroag you'll be, in f.iendniip tied}
S'zviji.
So quickly broke, if you divide.
2. To burft, or open by force.
AUhm.
O could we i^rcjk our way by force
Mote tell us, that the fountains of the eaj Ji
1

were bicke open, or clove afunUcr. Burnetii Thtcry,
Into n".y hand he forc'd the tempting g'/ld,
Whiiel with mode(lftruf,glingirij«'chl'i holJ. Gay.

To pierce ; to divide, as light divides
darknefs.
By a dim winking lamp, which feeb'.y brzU
Tlie gloomy vapour, he lay ftretcb'd aiong. J)ryi/.

T» deilroy by violence.

This is the fabtick, which, when Gcd brialiiL
down, none can build up again. Burrtt^s Theory.
5. To batter ; to make breaches or gaps
in.
I'd give

bay Curta!, and his furniture.

My roouth no .-nore were broken than thefe boys.
And w:it at little Rtard.

Shakt/feart,

O father abbot

To dilcard
I fee

To crack or open the flcin, fo as that

13.

Ci« him a little earth for charity.

Shakeffiare.

The bre.iking of that parliament
Brcke him; as that diih-incft vifloiy
At Charronta, fatal tj liberty,
Kiird with report that old man elo(;uent. Milron.
Have not fome of hit vices wcakcn'd h'.s bjdy,
and i>rokt hi» health I have not others diflipated
Tilieijin.
his eftate, and reduced him to want ?

hulbmd took up the child.

W:ak fiul

Clarendon.

I'll brave her to her face
I'll give my anjer its free courfe againd htr:
Thou flialt fee, Phosnix, how I'll brtak her pride.

Piil:l>.,

Tocra.Ti; to Ciatter.
Your hopcj wiihuuc arc vanlOi'd into frnokc
Yi ur captains lak^n, and yiur armie

.

broke.

Dry J.

To weaken tlje mental faculties.
Oppicft niture flctps:
This refl mi^ht ;et have balm'a ihyirB^ra ferf;^!,.
Which, if c'.r.vrniency will not allow.
Sbakrfftcre.
Stand ir. hard cure.
any cabbter in poetry darei venture upon the
experiment, i-.r v«ill on.y buak his brains, helton.

U

To tame ; to tram to obedience ; to
enure to dotiiity.
What boots ;t to Inak a colt, a..d to let him
!>j^ir,j<r.
ftfs'^ht run icole at undom!

10.

give over furplus tillage, and b^eak no more grour.d
Carciu.
than will ferve to fupply their own turn.

Shakiffcare.

and blindly to deftruflion led:
She break her heart ihe'U fooncr break your head.
Drydcn.

Th= hiilb.indman muft fiiftirirfl/! the land, before
Dat'ls.
be made capable of good feed.

!

it

To make a ftvelling Or impofthumc

14.

grief.

G iol ray lord, enter here.

Lovers break not hours,

— W.U

Shakff>.
Unlefs it be to come bcfnre ihcir time.
Pardon this fault, and by my foul I fwcar,
Shak.
I never more will break an rath with thee.
Did not out worthies of the houfe,

Bcf ire tliey brcke the peace, bieak vows
16. To infringe a law.

Unhappy man

18.

!

.'

To Hop

;

to.

Hud'ibras.

To break a jeft.

3 1.

Shakefpeare*

Dryden.

To utter a jefl unex-

pefted.

To

to break the pious laws

lux, or put out
32. To break the neck.
the neck joints.
I had as lief thou dldll break his neck, as his

make ceafe.

Shakejpeare.

fingers.

To break off.

33.

To intercept.

To put a fudden ftop

to interrupt.
To preclude
34. To break off.
obllacle fuddenly interpofed.

by fome

To check the itarts and (allies of the foul.

And break off M its c-jmmerce with the tongue.
Add:{or.:

As one condemned to leap a precipice.

35.

To break

up.

To diflblve

;

to put a

fudden "end to.
Who canmt reft till he good fellows (5nd ;

He breaks uf houfe, turns out of doors his mind.
Herbert.

m

He threatened, that the tradefmen would beat

To interrupt.

out his teeth, if he did not retire, and break up the
Arbuihnot.
meeting.

Some folitary cluifter will I choofe,
Co;rre my attire, and Ihort fliall be my (Isep,
Br lie by the melancholy midnight bell. Dryden.
The fatlicr wai fO moved, that he could only
command his voice, broke with fighs and fjbbin^s,
Addijan.
fo far »a to bid lier proc-ed.
The p-)0r (hade (biv'ring ftands, and mull not
br.ik

His painful filente, till the mortal fpeak. Tiekell.
Sometimei in brcken words he ligh'd his care,
Look'd pale, and trcmbkd, when he vicw'd th?
Gay.
fair.

To feparate company.
Did tu)t Paul ami Barnabas difpute with

•

break my heart?

Should not all relations bear"a part ?
It were cnnugh to break a Jingle heart.

of wine, mingled with common water,
yet (o as if the firiV fall bs i/ :!<», !>y means o(
Bacon.
a fop, or otherwife, it ftayeth above.
Think not my fenfe of virtue is fo fmall
I'll rather Isap down fitft, and break your fall.
Dryden.

20.

't

I'd ravhcr break mine v^vn.

Spirit

19.

To open trenches.
To deftroy \vith

30. To break the heart.

To violate a contraft or promife.

15.

To break ground.

29.

open.

Stof! (hort, and looks about for fome kind flirub,
Dryden.
'I'o Lreak his dreadful fall.
She held my hand, the deftin'd blow to break,
D<ydcn.
to fpcak.
Then from her tofj lips bi-g

and it even broke the heart

To break ground. To plough.
When the price of corn fallcth, men generally

28.

!

Who fees before bis eyes the depth below,

to be;

To cut it up at table.
To eat the iiril time

;

The defeat of that day was much greater than
it then appeared

Sbakefprare.

To break a deer.
27. To break faji.
in tlie day.

the blood comes.
She could have run and waddled all about, even
and then my
the day before /he broke her brow

To fink or appal the fpirit.
of his army.

For this great journey.

26.

Stv'iff.

Break iheir talk, miifrcfi Quickly; my kinfStakeffeare.
man fhall fpeak for Eimf-lf.

Is come to lay his weary b-jnes amon^ ye;

9.

Q many
Have broke their backs with laying manors on 'em.

to difmifs.

;

a great officer broken.

Shak.

To difable one's

25. To break the back.
fortune.

A

17.

An old man, bnlen with the flormt of ftatc,

8.

Than you Ihould fuch difhonour undergo.

Attrafls all fees, and little lawyers breaks. DryJtr..
command or call to b? liberal, all of a fudden
impoveriOies the rich, breaks the merchant, and
Soittb.
ihuts up every private man's exchequer.

12.

my finews, break my back,

I'd rather crack

View theireftate with difcontentand pain. Davits.
With arts like thef? rich Matho, when he fpeaks,

Of natuiT, pleading in his children's caufe. Dryd.

body.

7.

dens.

broke

To crnih or deftroy the ftrength of the

6.

24. To break the back. To llrain or diflocate the vertebrx with too heavy bur-

For this few know themfelves T for inercliwts

When I trite the five loaves among five thou-

who much dcfir'd to know

My niind,adventur'd humblythus to fpeak. Dryd.

ahakejpeare.

fand, how many bafluts of fragments took ye ap ?

4.

1,

Of whence (he was, yet fearful ho*,v to break

Md'fin.

To part by violence.

3.

break it, at fir!>, that it may be the better undcrBaccn.
ftjod at the next meeting;.

Behold young Juba, the Numidian prince,

11.

C'Jiler.

with of.

:

a leal were opened.
When any new thing (hall be propounded, no
counlVllcr ihould uiddenly deliver any po(iti\'C opinion, but only hear it,- and, at the moft, but ta

With how much care he lorms hinifelf to glory,

tjaxon.]
1.

To reform

23. To open fomething new ; to propourtd fomething by an overture : as if

And break our fierce barbarians intomen. yiddifin.

To BREAK, o). a. pret. I broke, or brcde
part. paff. broke, or broken, [bfieccan,

great folly, as well as injuftic", to iri-.i*

The French were not quite broken 0/ it, until
Grew*
feme time after they bccai-nc Chriilians.

That hot-miuth'd bead that bears igainft the

.ib

is

oi>*fo noble a relation.

M.iy-

Hard to be iroien even by lawful kings. DryJetiNo fports hue what belong to v.\u they know,
To break the ftubborn colt, t.) bend the bow. Dry J.

from

It

22.

ve; it is in length an
bundrmi feet, in bretjf* twenty, and in hei^h:
B^ccn.
near fiftj- ; hjving a dojr in tlie midft.
The river Ganges, according unto later iclat'ons, if not in l;ngth, yet in oriadlb and deptli.
w'.odoMiS only

To JliTolve any union.

21.

i

that

vehemence, that they were forced to brtak comArn-bury.
pany ?

36. Tt break up.
SlioUs being

,

To open

;

to lay open.

lodged amongft mineral

matter,

be broke »/•, it exhibits imJVocdioard.
ptclTiins of tlie (hcIU.

when this co-ncs to
37. To break up.

To feparate or dilband.

Alter taking the ftrong city of Belgrade, Solyman, returning to Confiantinople, broke up his
aimy, and there lay ftiU the whole year following.
Knollet,

To break upon the ivheel. To punifh
by ftrctching a criminal upon tl\e wheel,
and breaking his bones with bats.
39. To break injind. To give vent to wind

38.

in the body.

To

SRB

MM^M^w^w^

BUB

mitE

111*

.

T^iMikat*

» k» «k
kitZtt

k'sar twk^Qi^kK^htwit**

ft^l^WC

«»^T^ftt«st$ «»Wfiiwit«»

1»*i«*^o>>!<>q><rf><HBM>iniiiii,^»

»>

^«A«>»^ l^Mlimilty.
lilt

Jim

i^^i

w >»H t

»^T^
*-

a^T^
JtalMHi^

«MM « vkMWK |hl)»

t4.r*

f^i-iirtfiJ-^i-

tX-^

«4* wqt ite* vkw :Ad£ •»-

-

,:

.

1

D R E

B R E

Invtni funic >) I piclontt

"•')'

Viyim-

To jlrnfl wi/i n. firm,
ami prrjilexcd vtib, th«t in

nil

/t/rti0,

wlicth«r tt^ivt or muirnl, il
to it» primiiii'f

iiiltciiiioiis,

fome

twn

lu. ki n); ni'iuthi

iti (ij{-

ha

I'l

rcftTciK'o

r

ol

laii

'III,

'

loaliiii

a

'I'hiUa II lit aini'il, (Imi

'Oalnll

<-•

.\

'

'

-

I

t,.(|ii,

.1-

*/>, <)«/,

in,

forth, to modify iti fijj

tiff,

Si:ite orbeiii); Tiroken i
y'Kini ilw

/>r/ii>

.'.:|.

of llx-

\m

M ..

!

,

1

6,imn

t>r

'

il tlir

/.

>

uir

,

'

wlih'iui

mi!ti-l>l'y of llnft,

DiyilfM,

lit,

i<

not

/'/f#iif

and

.Jill

"1"

''

aiitl

it'im

..,...>!

^

Ml ..(..•

.-.

^M.M.l It. AJHIJMI,

A paufe an interruption.
A line drawn^ noting that the fenfe
1)1

'1

iliiK

t.Mn

1/1

III be no iiiahir n\ ili< law.

U Ilw church*! wcia nut «in|il'i)rcd
to hear Ocxl'i law, ihare would

li«

Sliti,

b< pla'fi
nod of limn.
t<i

to b< prifoni (or lh( irttttri u( tli* Uwi of inm,

6.

A wave broken by rockier r>ndbanki

term ol navigation,
Ta Baa'AKfAtr. v. a, [from I'fmk and
f'ljl.] To eat the firrt meal in the day.

n»l by waiili, or fiart, ur aga niiiirrfl,

;

1

»

wiiiifii law, wh*f» nun* iiiiiiraft
\
nan waa wrilun In lila hmH^

I

Thef-'-

7.

'

-'

Ai Toon a* Phwl.

,

Baa'AKfAiT. n. J. i^ii.xii .11^, «cib.]
Th' -tikr wa< ttirtatjuji, (b< lift of hit rr
X.

A

wofM.

Wtllai.

he tiling eaten ae the firll meal.
Hof€ M a foo4 krtttj»p, b«t It 1« a k«4 fupp«r.
4«/M.
A K>y>d pi'M of kMa4 wovU ht •Am th« l>>ri
triakfa/l t .r mjymiaf rntttm,

Ltit/.

food in general.
UAxti hy t T'ln^ry linn,

'if

3

,

1/,*. [from

»1.

r<>

"rfltiubicall.
I. Jill

'

llru/lmg ill* i"i i<

ill*

'I

;•

I,...

Whiiliai
Into ilia air

I

'1

Utk t» faM !•

o iMi.

fUkf kf Oifinr, twkm u,

fMalncf t«i > a»«<«

ftafo

Mf

mmthfif in a maw

aatf i« aMay

fMW A>

M

'"»

iImi

a* (• vrar-

»tim aaoA

Ufinjir,

What la inw dilfiitM* 1 tyntU.m^

My ta«lia it m»rt tAttn'itt* than y«u( fwinH,

mA

-.

W aMM •<#«••(y dtM wt»i(WMH. tU U ^mt

larft itiiid In

'I he MIy Aail Im amlrMUt, ky A*d«w1»( th<
Aa«tk, •n4 aad tf Itw krti^hint,
Vitiium.

/

fi ')>

hmil',

num.

o

mm

II"

—I tm

.

«f a AOi.
7 " ivtfaa, »•!»( a* (•» (fMrdt, t< t l*r((

tiiliit'

Or tilt, by witfllini, «» wag flrong ana kaadfid,

n, /.
(from ^rM// and
bona of th« brcalt \ the Aer-

w

\m.\ 'JIm

fh« tkaaa

h'

liaadlul.
("/»/<'/.

/'

Bicam. *. /, (^Mw, fr, tjprinui Itiiui,

Ufa,

Al oilixf iiin'a,

1. .'.*il«

and carult aa da |/i»i.

longencafkett, which are afort r/f liringi
placed in the middle of the yard.
B».
...*.]
ine neck it broken ( a Baa'AtTfAtT. n.f. {from irta/l tit\A/a/l,'\
1'
In a (hip, a rope faftened to fomc part
ii.igering ihe B«ck.
^ , ^.
Ihm*
of her f/irward on, to jiobl h«r hea^ to
9nt<»kt 'tc T/nrf ; l« «• '
•«, i* ttruin
Harrli.
a warp, or th« like.
To m^
ihghfbtsf.
H. aJi, [from briaft and higb,^
Ba «'a«t M
Bait'A/
«. /. [ffOm Brta* *t\i
Up to the breau.
fromitt.] One tlMU aukc* a practice of
7 h'. ri'tr irdif (avt way Mila bar, (» lltal Am
brcaicMf Ma prMUft.
wit Arai^hC kriajthirh.
MitiiUf,
I trill dCMb ;•• iM aMt arixWeri irut/^tLay RMiam FMtMt kaAi«( in tha (an,
mfy Mid tfw <«•• fcMlOW Ivrrr.
Utttff'"la
{Mkf.
OrjilinU
fatlii,
Brufbifh
'
' r'tii Mndve^.]
it f Arrow '
Bac'A«THOoie«. *.
[from triafl
Me i)a' ;
ich of tow*.
hctk.^ With Ihipwrightt, tba compafling
'IImI #»it b'tat'^^rvi, I-* v.Ji wfitf of all.
timbcra bdbre, diM b«lp to ftrcMftbcD
Of Jdaf^ •/ kfffaM, «M *aM, f«Mf aMm mai^
the ten, sad all the Ibrafan of lb* flrfp.

"

'

Of Iwill wild b«ill<, lit lull III, riol a rM«,

//,»r/ V,

art* in tin»ik, any lord. Uhut, King Lmri
tpariia'd, lak« hnib\ fiilM raf^lia I II tMWtff

Harm.
Bat'AiTKirOT. u. /, [from A-/^ and
kii')t.'\
A knot ot bflitck of nbbMd*
worn by women on the breaA.
Ow la^ h*>* 0Kt fttMf Iti ow mm haarta (
wlw «•« •« aatlMM fa «fc« fan* ant tw wanwt*

il

Oaf fwAfdi (o wfwUy did rht tul** tniplity,
••? " •'"•v/
That efcay, at hmfrlii tr- "

—

;rfr».

i'

'

and wh

mill la Iirr4llil('l

Bat'A»TCA*K«T. H. f. (from //r/a// and
tpfitiA With marinera, the targefl and

mi 4' I'll,

I

1

I iit luimh
\
wlfiio had Ikou lh« p'lW'i t'l gl«' ni> 'Ixaili^
Ihiilm,
y The Hate or power of \)t9»lh\iiu fittm
ly ( oopolrd to lli< Kwiillilun in wiiitil t

Bai'atTaowt.
'I'he

with

tli« luiiie

HU jiihii AnioyctH iiii /"i,f/lii'nh,»ni\mt4t a
Im ilin fliifi'iii
(Unttmliin,
IIRKATII,«,/; till
-n,]
I, The air drawn iii xnil tja^tad CjUl of
lli« body by living nnlmnla,

furrow'd (ai,

,V/,(«///.»,/)-/

Jiritfli ih» k»»(i alf,

lit)Hi.\

ynnla Inli
Iliinh,

ilio

J

'

'I

puml^, and,

ilic

lliil

fir wajil.

Draw lli» hug'

in

uarielt, hold

nuA

whicli

rojii!*

N'l man flat nrnra C'inl«m|>l ihaa

iiii

meetinfroi'

I. The ftrft meal in the day.

1

,

RatAir.

thiile

/>ifii/t

MalMd, at Iiri0lli, Inlu Ui<< winl. Umli, Minhlk,

i

7'«

[fiom

brrall nl the dvtf ndaiiii |

a,

i„,.,fi.

wit
pritr,

/

liaa'Aai WON K. n, /, \(tnm iitujl mid
•\uarh,
VVdihi iliiiiwn iiji 111 hli'Ji aa ih«

: f; mi.

I

,

Pirrt, Sir, I rear), ,,

man Ihuvat ki>riiiw

a

Mtnimn'i
«,

yanU

iho

with the

Urji
tJtiii OvIJ,
••

(.•d,
Il

whltli

rarliiiihi

'

hr

\ttttxn brtnfi Mini

f mufti,

%trm »h» ^¥l|.| forimt w'.lh a daiiiillal, irM_/i. I)ry,l,
'I
the confcience.
'I

M. t.

a Oiip,

111

9,

The diTpofition of the mind,

I

lili

tiwl/l,

to the mail.

a

tl<

n>ff.\
fallen

hry pluck ilia latharlf fi tiem ika Ar/rf/,

1

and

liiiiuiail,

lilm.

I'he pnrt of n
neck, between the furcle((«>
1

lia

Ilia

liid.ir hit

iillhil,

A iiKniKh uleil liir pHiliig liiif,

'I'hi krmJIfiliHit

frlir.

Tuf) tf Smplni; ll,,y,.
brenll that li under ihc

5.

i.iHild

,

women which llaa'Atraopin.

ui

.iiiiiilml

I

InMi

iiflni*

diiven by the breall,

Thi- hatlar tre0jl,

He that breaki any thing.

pal), in

in^^ |

7»/., <aiv,

Siulfi

aiii

will

iiii(iliMi

,,!„,,
I.

ifi

[from ^r/ai(.]

BitE'Aiciiii. «./

t.

I,

;

I

Uaii'A«> ri.oiioM.

3. Drcall wai anciently taken for the power

4.

titH'Irf,
''

f'liii&h.]

TI..I Inlhi ir(l.

S't Tarth witli num'rjui kriakt ind ilalliXi

Ik,

iiaiknd lii<ail|iiaia iiiandadi

of finginir.

It
tralh U
All
Ml miMlrrn trafli

tii^fliUt, and, InAaail iil

flilald, lirlin,

iiiflv

vlil

contain ilir milk,

;

Cardmal,

.

I

] Ik-

i,

fufpcnded.

I.

•:

A

'

I

(orlli WHioiiK.

1

'

i<

Dxld,

ii>|illi<<,

fchv'a hid r'iiin«'<'h«'<' hIviiii ihy

*-"./.'.'

hrttk of day, tlir
,

,

,

aiigrv LoVf

Nil, Itaylt'lil

rniiiMi

llio

111

Thin "

middle p.iri of the tiumun body,
between ilii* link and the belly.

openinjt-

Jay until iiuun,

/I

.

'I'hv

I,

BmiAK. «f./. [from the verb.]
I.

'

iiliola.

\

IJKEAST. »./ [bneojT, Snxon.]

nirication.

inlf

hi.

lialli

Mva fti«i|t liiiuntli rtiiiiii Auiii llii nHI kmnk li|

\'

1(
liKlJcniicb, viiilriitr, i)r li'^t wntioit.
ulcd oltrn with uJJitioiinl partklri,
is

nml

^ivij/*

r '"'•

and III* (Vniair l«u Liigr

l"K«

ni<Miiin>;, hy iniplyiii); riilicr ilrcriinctit,

(Irom

y,

WhaUliiin(ri^iM^>/iiiriliiin K II

and

tiiitli,

Tha mala l> ukliitnl

hKl|> liii irrliidait.

III

M,

»,

I

Armour liir the breall.

]

1.

li'inif,

h.ti

lln f'AHTrt A

I.

h in to be ohfcrved of titii •xtcnfivc

t6.

R R

T^

k^fiit'd ill* w'/rk *>

'.

,

I

kiiuih,

Mtd« Unvmi and d«l;..
UijJuft /luriiig,
4. Refptte I paiifi* i relatail/m,
Oiv* DM i/>rri'
'la
i(,
Hafwt X^t^.H'
'

i

),

brttttt moving Ail,

VtM all 0tft*ik<m, »t4 I'll aarxl Irt AmIc
CalM m4 mmilM m » Unuiia't (a«^

WKan rrait a brmh </ wiM Itkt »'*i im (ntv,

6.A flufle aA ( an inA ant.
V*B muftt mip artd fmif, mt, \n * knath \

Sum C«f<a lA«lit a* 4itMti,Hf (t
Baf^ATHAat.a. ar^- [komti

may be breathed

t

'

K,

4

«», hriuthuhu mi.

Tt Ba tAinu, v, ». {tfim lirtiiih.\
1. To draw in and th/r/w Mt tl»« air b-/
the lorrgf 1 to Sofpire an4 txjii".
H* ttUf*tunf4, IM ra«< *f
™9tf l# )H# wwWHm^ MIMSffi

tat him ^«#r(ir/ kaaMaa th* b««t^a« an4 aardia
At<ifa«(a»«i«A4h«ata »M.4M.tiidCli^.

:

—

;

To take breath

;

New irwr/'in^i, whence new nouriOimeni (he takes.
Dryden.

the Scots, that he fuftered them not to brieihe, or
gather tbemfelim together igain.

Br f/athlfss. aetj. [from brepih.']
1. Out of breatlr i fpcnt with labour.

Sfrnjtr's Stall of Irelavd.

Three times they kreatb d, and chi-ee times iu\

Well knew
The prince, with patience and fofferance fiy,

tlicy drink.

Upon agreement.
ShoHrfftari'i Hmry IVi,"
RcH, that gives all men life, gave him his death,
And too mnch trenit'mg put him out of bicath.

So hafty heat foon cooled to fubdue j

I

Wlien Fr»ncc ha* ir«fi't/ after inteftine broils,

And peace and concjiicll crowa'd her foreign toils.
Sojcimmon.

Came there a certain lord. Shaki'jMare't Henry 1 V.
Many fo drained thcmfelve': m their race, that

Shall I no: then be (iilleJ in the vault.
To whole t'oul mouth uo Ixilthfome air licatlit in,

Ilayward.
they fell down hreaihlefs and dead.
Bteaibleji and tir'd, is all my fnry fpent t
relent
K
length
glutted
fpleen
at
Or doct my
Vryder't ^re'td.

To pafs as air.
And there be ftrangled ere nif Romeo comes ?
Staiffftart-

'To Breathe, f. a.

ejeft

life,

BREECH.

i

.

•

•

II.

J.

[fuppofed from bpxcan.

Whoe'er thou arl','wh6fe forward cars ate bent

move or

le\\d

bjy turned towards him his naked
Ifaytvard.

The ftorks devour fnakes and other fcrpcnts

aftuate by

they will prefjntly clajj then) clufe to a wall, to
Crrtv^s Mujerum.

keep them in.

bre.ith.

.

The a;tfjl youth proceed to form the q\;ire
They brtatit ti>e flute, or ilrike lb; vucal wir?.

To exhale

to fend out as breath.
His altar /';rt:f^£'J
Ambrofial odours, and ambrofial llow'rs.

7. To utter privately.
have tow'rd lieav'n breathed a fecrct vow,
To live in prayer and contemplation.
I

Shekej'feart' i Merchant of Vettke,

T« give air or vent to.

8.

'l";u

icaJy cuic to cool the raging pain,

Js underneath the foot to bnaiht a vein.

!

So cannons, when they mount vail pitches.
Are tun.blcd back upon tiicirii^.r/r.'. ylrnyiKous.
4. The hinder part of any thing.

ro Breech, -v. a. [from the noun.]
I. To put into breeches.
z. To lit any thing with a breech ; as, to
breech a gun.

She fhowB a body rarhcr than a life,

A (latue than a brejttrr, Shaktjp, /Int. and Cle^p.
One that utters any thing.
No particular fcanUal once can Couch,

Infpirer ; one that animates or infufes

by inspiration.
f be breather of all life does now expire
His milder fatliet l'u;.inir>n$ him away.

Norrii.

Brb'athino. «./ [from iretJt be.]
J.

Afpiration ; fecrct prayer.
Willie tohigiiheav'n h\i pin^a brejtiingt t^irn'd.
Weeping he hop'd, and ficrificing mcurb* J. /*/-;(;.

3. Breathing place ; vent.

Bred np in grief, can pie afarc be our theme ?

Our cndlcfs anguilh docs not nature claim

Luc'na, it feems, was bretd^ng, as flie d'd nObut entertain t^". company with a dil'courfe
upon the difficulty of reckoning to a day. Sjttfffto-.

t'rjing

2.

But could youth laft, and love fti:l breed

To live with thee, and be thy love.

;

To be produced

Raleigh.

to have birth.
Where tl-.ey nioft bieed i.i.d liaunt, 1 have ob;

ferv'd.

The air is delicate.
Shakeffeare'i Macletb.
There is a wjrm th^t brciauh 111 old fnow, and
dietli

foon after it cometh f^i-t ci' the fnow.
Bn.-.n'i Aatural Uijloij.

The caterpillir is one of the moft general of
worms, and breedetb of Jew and leaies.

Bacctu
hath been the g(;neral ti-a\litron and belief,
that maggots and rlies breed in putrined carcafe^.
It

A

Bc,:i!.y.

4.

To raife a breed.
In tlie choiec of l^vire, choofe fuch to breed of

authority of the hiilbands.
The wire of Xaiuhjs was domineering, as if
her fiirtune, anj her extratlion, had entitled her
L'Ejtrerge.
to thii bnieUi.

To be increafed by a new prodl!^!^lon.
Had joys n9 date, and a^c RO need ;
Then thfC; delights my mind mij it move

The g.trment worn by men over the
lower part of the body.
rctnicliio is coming in a new hat and an old

To wear the breeches, is to ufurp the

Frier.

To Breed, 'u. n..
1
To bring young.

Jerkin, and a pair of old br.echa, thrice turned.
ShakeJ'^ Tarfihg of the iihrttv.
Rough fatires, fly rema. ks, iU-naiur'd fpeeches.
Are always aira'd at poets that wear breeehu. Prior.
Give him a fingle coat to make, he'ddo't;
veil or breeches, fing!y ; but the brute
Could ne'er contrive all three to make a fv.ir. Kip^.

2.

'i

K: afon ard furrow are to uj the fame.

Jingitlar,]
1.

To condud through the firlt ftages of
life.

3.

I will chide no bi lather in the world but myfcif.

3.

Dryd.n.
8.

an old Gaulifn word ; fo that Skinner
imagines the name of the part covered
with breeches, to be derived from that of
In this fenfe it has no
the garment.

Bre'ather. «./ [from hreathe.]
1. One that breathes, or lives.

But it confounds the breather.
Slak.Jjeare's Mcufurefr Meafure.

!

The hinder part of a piece of ordn.ince.

3.

BRE'tcHEs. n.f. [bpxcSax. from bracca,

Staktffcare.

Ah wretched me by fates avcrfc decreed
To biing thoe forth w.th pain, with caie t) breed.

1

Shakcjpeii't;

Drydin'^s y'trgit,

2.

fancy.

Ah th.Jt thy father hiJ been fi refolv'd
—That thou m'ghtlV ftill have wjrn tlie petticoat.
And ne'er had (luru the breech nom Laiii-aHcr.

;

Atiltan'i Paradijt Lijl.

And left their pillagers, tT rapine bred.
Without confroul to ftrip md fpoil the dead. Dryd.
His farm may not remove his children too far
f;om him, or the trade he breedi them up in. Lake.
7. To bring up; to take care of from in-

Breeches.

2.

r.ier.

6.

Hear firft what Socrates of old has faid
To the lov'd yjuth wliom lie at Athens I red. Dryd.
To hrtid up the fon to common fciifc.
Is ever :rote the parent's \ci<\ cxpcnce. Dryd. Juv.

breech, and ufed words fuitable to that g<:!lure.

which when they begin to creep ojt at ihc'irbreule!,
to

;

On ftate affairs, to guide the government

When tlic king's pardon was oSered by a her:!uld, a

i/i.vj((./.

To infpire

To educate; to form by education.

6.

'part.

4. Toexercife;
Thy greyhounds are as iwift as bi tailed ftiigs.
.

Whom

The lower part of the body ; the back

1.

to keep in breath.

5

tendoni hath bred for the fjiacc of fomc hundreds
of years, were brought up together in the fame
linker.
univerlity.
Hail, foreign wonder
certain tliefe rough ihades did never breed.
Milttn.

Sax.]

she is called, by ancient authors, tlic, tenth;
mufi i and by Plutarch is compared to Cius,'
but
t'.-.e fon of Vulcan, who brealbcd out noth^g
ti.ime.

Tillahit.

:

In a curious brede of needle-work, one colour
falls away by fuch juft degrees, and another rifts
fo iiifenlibly, that we fee the variety, wirilouc being
able to dil^ngui<h the total vanilhing of the .ne
AdJij'on,
fr.ini the lirft appcarrnce of the other.

a vital

by breathing:

with out.

"

;

place
fo, there are breeding ponds, and
feeding ponds.
Mr. Harding, and the worthicft divine Chrif-

SeeBRAlB.

Bkede.. n.f.

with into.

Dec^j tf }''uiy.
be bandfime, be beJuv'd,
Could I but bnvUr myielf inro Adrartus. Drydcn.

to

To contrive

Tlicir malice was bred in *hem, and th^ij co^i
Ifn/dcm, xii. 10.

] would be ycung,

expire;

jffchair't SchKhnaJter,

a nation.

4

tition would never be changed.

aflive fpirit; wljcfe motions, he cxpcil^, ibnuld

To

brcrdeih in youth !

Br En. partieip. paff. [from To breed.]

own the dignity of its orIgin:i!.

3.

HMer.
the hems of others.
What hurt ill company, and overmuch liberry,

irrrf in

To

Drfitn.

here began to hreatht a moft delicious
kind of a-thcr, and faw all the fields about them
latUr.
covered with a kind of purple light.

He brtathtd inlc us the breath of

Our own heart; we know, but wc are not ce. um
what hope the rites and orders of oor church have

!

air.

:

Thereat he roared for exceeding pain.
to have heard, great hoirour would havt
Fairy 5Jp(f».
Ind.

That

to hatch ; to plot.
My (on Edgar had he a hand to virite th!s?a
Shakrffeare's King John.
heart and brain to brttd it in ? ^hak. King hear.
YielJinj 10 the fentenCL-, brcaihlefi thou
give birth to; to be the native
And pal? ihaltUc, as what thou burieft now. Prkr,' 5.

They

To inje£l by breathing

to caafe ; to produce.

;

Intemperance and luft ir«<i infirmities and difeafes, which, being propagated, Ipoil the ftrain of

And bicathing to this brrathlefi cxceilence
The ir.cenic of 4 \ ow, a holy vow.

Their pains and poverty dclire to bear.
To view the light of heav'n, and breaiU the vital

2.

Lieie.

.

To occafion

3.

Kneeling before this ruin of fweet life.

To infpire, or inhale into one's own body, and ejett or expire out of it.
They wilh to live.

have

I

Children would breed their teeth wilh lefs danget.

Dead.

2.

I breJ,

[bpa;ban. Sax.]
1. To procreate; to generate; to produce
more of the fpecies.
None fi.-rcerln Numidia bred.
With Carthage were in triumph led.
Kofcummcn.
2. To produce from one's felf.
brei/.

Fiiiry ^lueev.

remember, when the figlit waj done.
When 1 was dry wilh raje and extreme toil,
Sreathi'efi, and faint, leaning upon my fworJ,

Mi'i:i>.

1.

To BREED, v. a. prefer.

Tho' when he breathlrji wax, that battle 'gan rcne^v.

;

!

B R r.

Thewirtnth diftends the chink«, and maket

to reft.

He pielcutly tbllowc-d the \id>ory fo hot upon

4.

..

B R E

B R E
3.

; ,

as arc of long laigc bodies.

Alirii/n.r.

Breed, n./. [from tiie verb.]
I.

A caft; a kind; a fubdivifion of fpecies.
I

bfmg

.

.

.

;

A fierce loud buising breefe, their ftlngj draw

I bring you v/'itatfk),

the beft hnal in the north. Sbakefp. Henry VIII.
Walled towns, fto^d arfenals, and ordnance
alt this is but a fteep in a lion's /kin, except the
irtid and difpofition of the people be ftout and
Bacon's EJJhys.
warlike.
Infefliou! ftreams of crowding fins began.
And thro* the fpurious breed and guilty nation ran.

Drydcn.

BREEZE, n.f. [^wKtf, Ital.] A gentle Bre'vity. n. /. [brcvitar, Lat.] ConWe find that thc:("e hotted regions of the world,

j

;

A number produced at once
She lays them in ihc

faiid,

;

Bre'ezy.

where tiicy He till

child or wife of him that is flain, a recompence,
which they call an criach.
Spcrjcr.

beft breeders and bringers up of the worthieft men.

Ajciam's Scbiolmajler,
3. A female that is prolifick.

Get tliee to a nunnery ; why would'ft thou be a
Shaieffeare's Hamlit,

nately.

Or brctu fierce tempefts on the wat'ry main.
Or o'er the globe diftil the kindly rain.
Pope,

to

Let there be an hundred perfon* in London, and

to

In danger rather to be drcnt than brcni ? Fairy S^.

fcour,

f.

[In

That

architeftnre.]

I

ward parts of any timber building, anil
the middle floors, into which the

than Ijxty in the country.
Craunt,
Vet, if a friend a night or two fliouM need her,
He'd recommcnt* 'ler at a fpecia) breeder,
Pripe.

One that takes care to raife a breed.
The breeders of Englilh cattle turned much to

She had her breeding at my father's charge,
Sbaketfeare.

am a gentleman of blood and breeding.
Sbahef/ieare's King hear,

hope to fee it a piece of none of the meaneft
ireiding, to be acquainted with the laws r.f nature.
I

GlanvitU't Scepjis, Pref,

Bre'wace. n.f. [from ^r«w.] Mixture
of various things.
Go, brew me a pottle of fack finely.
With cgg<i, fir ?
—Simple of itfclf I'll nO' pullet-fperra

A mam
n.f. [from bre'w.]
whofe profefiion it is to make beer.
When breeders mart their malt with water.

S~JUlfl.

Sbakcfpeare,

A note or

charafter of time, equivalent to two
meal'ures or minims.
Harris.
Bre'viary. n. /. [breviaire, Fr. brc-viarium, Lat.]

Men every day eat and drink, though I think
no man an dcmonfirate out of Euclid, or Apolloniuf, that his baker, or breiutr, or cook, has not
conveyed poifon into Iris nreac or drink.
TVktfin.

Bre'whouse.w./. [ from bniu and houje. ]

A houfe appropriated to brewing.

An abridgment; epitome; a compen-

In our bre^vhoujei, bakehoufcs, and kitchens,

dium.

Manners; knowledge of ceremony.'

.

T

avoid great errours, muft the lefs Commit. Pcf/e,

The Gra>:e« from the court did next provide
Srredin^^ andwit, and air, and decent pride, Swifl.

3.

Crefconius, an African bilhop, has given us an
aliridgmcnt, or breviary thereof.
Ayljffe,

As men of breedings fomctimes mtin of wit,

Nurture

;

care to bring up from the

infant Aate.
Vi hy was my breeding ordcr'd and prefcrib'd,
As of a perfon fepar-itc tr> God,
Defign'd for great exploiri ?

Breesr. n, /,

Milleti's AgeniJIet,

[bpiof-a, Saxon.]

A fling-

Cleopatra,

The hre'fe upon her, like a csw in June,
Hoilti

and

fties.

Sbnieff, Ant. and Cleop.

mongrel ptioce of beat*

Vol. J.

of the church of Rome.
Bre'viat. n.f. [from brevis,
Lat.] A fhort compendium.

brevio,

It is obvious to the ihallowcft difcourfcr, that
the whole couofel of God, as far as it is incumbrnt
for man to know, is comprifed in one breviat of
evangelical truth.
Decay of Pieiy.

An abbreviation.
Brevi'er.

n.

J'.

Hfdibras.

bably,

are made divers drinks, breads, and meats. Bacsnw

Bre'wi NO, «./. [from brevj.] Quantity
of liquor brewed at once.

A brewing of new beer, fet by old beer, makcth
it

work a^ain.

Bacon,

BreVu. n, f.
1. A piece of bread foaked in
fat pottage,

boiling

made of faked meat.

2. It feems anciently to have meant broth.

What an ocean of brewis (hall I fwim in

!

Beaum. and Flctcb. Diocleftttm

Br/ar. h. /. See Brier.

A particular fize of BRIBE, n. f. [Bribe, in French, origi-

letter ufcd in printing ; fo called,

The learned write, the infeft breefe
Is b'it the

The book containing the dally fervjce

Bre'viature. n. J. [itam brevio, Lat.]

ing fiy ; the gadfly.

fail,

2,

my

Sbakefpcare.

Bre'wer.

BREFE. n. f. [In mufick.]

1.

in

:

bre^vage.

All thefe iti\% are brethren to each other in
faOion, ignorance, iaiqoity, peivcrfencfs, pride.

Bre'edinc. 11, f. [from Arrt</.]
Education; inllrudion; qualifications.

Trial would be made of the like brcm witit
potitoe roots, or burr roots, or the pith of artiBaconm
chokes, which are nourifliing meats.

/

Temfk.

Shakefpeare.

brewing ; or thing brev/ea.

Harris.
Bret. «.
A fifh of the turbot kind,
alfo turt or brut.
Diet.
B R e' I H R e N . a. /. [The plural oi brother.]

See Brother.

keep his houfe, and walh, wring, brevt, bake,
drefs meat, and make the beds, and do all

myfelf.

girders arc framed.

dairy, or elfe kept their cattle to Cx orfcven years

To perform the office of

Brew. n. /. [from the verb.] Manner of

The pieces in the out-

in

them breeders in Londoni there arc mo.e

to plot.

iVotton.

To Brew. v. it.
a brewer.

Brest Summers,

many in the country, we fay, that if tiiere be

;

print.

Sptnfer.

[from bjiennan. Sax.

torus, or tore.

Shikefi-eare'i Tines jlrJr'MCvi.

To contrive

5.

fnind it to be the molt malicious and franticle
furmife, and the moft contrary to his nature,
tliat, I think, had ever been brewed from the beginning of the world, howfoever countenanced by
a libellous pamphlet of a fugitive phyfician, even i«

member of a column, called alfo the

Amongft the fairefl breeders of our time.

2.

adj.

n.

Shal-ifptare,

Pofe feems to ufe the wojrd indetermi-

4.

burn.] Burnt. Obfolete.
What flames, quoth he, when I thee prcfent fee

Brest,

Here is the babe, as loathfome as a toad,

I

Take xw^y thefe chalices ; go, bniv me a pottle"
of Ack finely.

I

Full of wrinkles and ftofty furrows.

Brent,

To mingle.

3.

:

Time was, when Italy and Rome have b.-en the

A poor phyficirm's daughter.

bpemman. Sax.

Milton,

!

To put into preparation.
Here's neither buih nor fhrub to bear oiF any
weather at all, and another ftorm brewing* Sbak.

But eft, when you coutit you freed from fear,
CTmes the breme winter, with chamfrcd brows,

Time is the nurf^ and breeder t.i all good. Shai,

\,

ceiver

And when the fhining fun laugheth once^
You deemen tlie fpring come at once

The perfon which brings up another.

old

!

Not ufed.

Bre'eder. «. y; [from breed.]
That which produces any thing.
1

4.

[fi'om

rage or fume.] Cruel ; Iharp ; fevere.

no telltale, nor no breedbale.
Siaieffeare's Merry Wwei cf IVuidfir,

as

Mercy guard me
Hence with thy brc-a'd enchantments, foul de-

Pope.

the party muideied, which profecute the adtion,
that the matefa^or (hall give unto them, or to the

come in houfe withal ; and, I warrant you,

fixty of

We have drinks alfo brnved with feveral herbt,
and roots, and fpices.
Bacon.

2.

In tiie cafe of murderj the brcbc-nj that is, their
jud^e, will compound between tlic murderer and

An honeft, willing, kind fellow, as ever fcrvant Breme. adj.

Dutch ;

[hrowvL'en,

gredients.

Fanned

His oozy limbs.

breeds quarrels j an incen-

ireedtr of finners ?

ireexe."]

a.

-v.

tliofe

German ; bpipan, Saxon.]
To make liquors by mixing feveral in-

Bre'hon. n. /. An Irilh word.

diary.

•.

[from

adj.

BREW.

language, could bring

braiL-en,

The feer, while zephyrs curl the fwelling deep,

Bre'edbate. n.f. [from breedd,nA bate.'\

/hall

To
1

Baflci on the breezy fliore, in grateful Uccp,

they arc hatched j I'ometimes above an hundred at
Grazu,
3 breed,

One that

Raleigh.

with gales.

?

a hatch.

words into a narrow compafs, which a tranflator
cannot render without circumlocutions. Dryden.

Th^mfin.

Shjkefjfreare's Merebant sf Venice,

4.

the Spaniards call brcexe, that doth ever m^re blow

Gradual finks the breeme
Into a perfedl calm; that not a breath
Is heard to quiver through the clofing wood.

for when did friendthip take

A breed of barren metal of his fiicnd

Virgil, ftudylng brevitf, and having the com-

mand of his own

From land a gentle brcexe arofe by night,
Serenely Ihone the ftars, the moon was bright.
And the fea trembled with her fiU'er ligHt. Dryden.

but

contraction into

refreihed with a daily gale of eaflerly wind, which

ftronger in the heat of the day.

:

fhortnefs ;

few words.

feated under the equinoctial line, or near iti are fo

Roj'ccmmin,

John would have no more of the breed,
Arhuihmt's Biftary of J. Bull.
3. Progeny; offspring.
If thou wilt lend this money, lend it not

cifenefs ;

gale ; a foft wind.

Rode fair Afcanius on a fiery flecd,
Queen Dido's gift, and of the Tyrian breed. Dryd.
in contempt.
t, A family ; a generation

A coufin of his laft wife's was prcpofcd

.-

And drive tlie cattle gadding through the wood.

Shakcfpeare.

The horfes were young and handfome, and of

printing a breviary fuch is the fmalleft
type ufed in this work, in which the
examples appear.

blood.

Twice fifteen thoufand hearts of England's irerj.

As to thy friend

B R I

B R E

B R E

pro-

from being originally ufed

in I

nally fignifies a piece of bread, and is,
applied to any piece taken frcm the
reft;
tig

;

a iriit

reft ; it is therefore likely, that

among iw, a fhare

originally
reward
cf any thing unjuftlj^ got.]
given to pervert the judgment, or cor-

A

nipt the condacl.

'

Noi Irfs may Jupiter to gold afcribe,
IViMtr.
If a man be covetous, profit! ot biitts may put

Vrhcn he turn'd liimfelf into a lriln.

VEJirangt.

kirn to the ttft.

There 's joy when to wild will you laws pr^dtibr.

When you bid fortune carry baric hi:r iribi. Dry J,
?« ButBE. V. a. [from the noun.]

To gain by bribes; to give bribes, rewards, or hire, to bad porpofes.
The gn-at, 'tis true, can ftill th" eleSing tribe ;

The bard'may fupplicatr, but c.innot ir.li.
Z. It is feldom,
a good {cafe.

a place to burn bricks.
;
Like the Ifraelites in the brick-Lilts, tViey mul-

As aix thole dulcet (uundt in break of day,

That creep into the dreaming bridnn',m'i ear.
Shakefpeare,
And fummon him to marriage.

Bri'cki.ayer. n.f. [from ^nV> ana /ay.l

Bri BERY. »./. [from Srile.] The crime
bad

for

praftices.
There was a law made by the Romans, againft
the bribery and extortion of the governours of provinces : before, fays Cicero, the governours did
biibe and ixtort as much as was fufiicient tor
themfelvcs ; but now they bribe and extort as
much as may be enough not only for themfclves,
Bacon,
but for judges, jurors', and magiltrafes.

No tribiry of courts, or cabals of faftlons, or
advantages of fortune, can remove him from the
folid fnundations of honour and fidelity. Dryder..

BRICK, n. f. [krick, Dutch

;

Why, hapjn bridegroom !

A man whofe trade is to build with

Why doft thou fteal fo (bon away to bed Dryden.
Bri'demen. 1 a. /. The attendants on
Bri'demaids. J the bride and bride?

bricks ; a brick-mafon.

The elder of them, being put to nuife,

And ignorant of his birth and parentage,

groom.

Became a brickUyir when be came to age. Sbaktff.

Bri'destake. n.f. [ from bride znd/ake. ]

It you had liv'd, Sir,

Time enough to have been interpreter

It feems to be a poll let

To Babel's bricklayen, fure the tow'r h«d ftoo<.

krlque, Fr.

according xoMenagt, from imbrex, Lat.
'.whence Erica.']

Donne.

A mafs of burnt clay,*fquared for the
fo alter a body, as it re-

turncth sot again to that it was, may be called
tlttraib major : as coals made of woodpv brkks
Bacon.
.
of earth.
They generally gain enough by the rubbirti and
kifUhf which the prcicot architc^s value much
beyond thofe of a modern make, to d.fray the
jidJiJon.
charges of their fearch.
But fpread, ray fons, yourglory thin or thick.
F^pc.
On paflive paper, or on folid brick.

A loaf ftiaped like a brick.

turned into a workhout'e.]
corredion.

Our wedding cheer to a fad fun'ral teaft.
Our folemn hymns ti lulien dirges change.
Our bridal flowers ferve for a buried corlc. Shak.
Come, I will bring ihce to thy bridal chamber.

A bu:lding raifed over water for the
convenience of paffage.
What need the bridge much broader than the

1.

flood

Dryden,

Millin.

Your ill-meaning politician lords.
Under pretence ot Iridal friends and gueHs,

The upper part of the nofe.

2.

The raifing gently the bridge of the nofe, doth

Appointed to await me thirty fpies.
Milton.
When tomy arms thou broaght'ft thy virgin love.
Fair ange's fung our bridal hynm above. Dryden.
With all the pomp of woe, and forrow's pride
Oh early loft oh fitter to be led
Waljh.
In chearful fplendour to the bridal bed
For her the fpoufe prepares the bridal ring,
For her white virgins hynienajals fing.
Fope.
I

BHi'dal n.f. The nuptial fellival.
Nay, we muft think men are not gods ;
Nor of tlwm look for fuch oblcrvance always.

As fits the bridal.^

inftruments of mufick.

Came to the fca, and over Hellefpont
BnW^irr'his way, Europe with Afia join'd. Miltoiu

BRI'DLE. n.f. [bride, ?r.]
The headftall and reins by which a horfe
1
.

is

They fciz'd at laft

a beautiful woman.]
woman new married.

JVcodivard.

Dull made by pounding bricks.
This ingenious author, being thus (harp fet, got
together a convenient quantity of brKkdufi, and
SptHator.
*ifpofed of.it into feveral papers.
».

/

[from

hrick

and

tartb.] £aitli ufed ia auking buck*.

To Bri'dle. t. a. [from the noun.]
I.

The queen of beauty ftopp'd her bridled doves ;
Prior,
Approv'd the little labour of the Loves.
reftrain ; to govern.
3.
The difpofition of things is committed to thetn,
whom law may at all times bridle, and fupsriour
Hooker,
power controul.
With a (Irong, and yet a gentle hand.

Dryden.

To

Marriage-bed.

Now until the break of day,

You iW(</rfa£lion, and our hearts command. ^VArk.
To Bri'dle. v. n. To hold up the head.

To the beft bridebed will we.
Shakefpeare.

Bri'dlehand. n.f. [from bridle and
The hand which holds the
hand.]

Would David's fon, religious, juft, and brave.

To the firft bridebed of the world receive

A foreigner, a heathen, and a Have ?

To reftrain, or guide b>' a bridle.

1 bridle in my ilruggling mufe with pjin,
That longs to launch into a bolder ftrain. AdJifom
2i To put a bridle on any thing.

Thefe ate tributes due from pious brides.

Which by us (ball blcffed be.

flay.

errours, without a continual bridle oa the tongue.
tfattt.

The day approach'd, wlAn fortune should decide
Th' important cnterj>rize, and give the bride.

Earthen bottles, filled with hot water, do provoke in bed a fweat more daintily than brickhiiii
Baan.
hot.

Bm'ckdust. ». /. [from brick and <>'»/? .]

Clarendon,

A bright genius often betrays itfelf into many

Help me rriine own love's pralfes to rcfound,
Ne let the fame of any be envy'd ;
So Orpheus did for his own bride.
Spenfer.

Through this houfe each fairy ftray j

and br'ick-

men fancied to be a bridle upon the city, into the
hands of fuch a man as he might rely upon.

fignifies

'

Areftraint; a curb ; a check.
The king refolved to put that place, which fome

2.

BRIDE. ». / [bjiyb, Saxon ; brudur, in

A

reftrained and governed.

His courfer's bridle, and his feet embrac'd. DryJ,

Sweet dews Ihall weep thy fall to-night
Herbert.
For thou muit die.
In death's dark bow' ts our bridals we will keep,
And his cold band
Shall draw the curtain when we go to fieep. DryJ.

Runick,

To

To Bridge, -v. a. [from the noun.]
raife a bridge over any place.

Sweet day, fo cool, fo calm, fo bright.

A piece of brick.

Clay ul);d for making hrick.

The fupporter of the firings in ftringed

3.

Sbakeffeare'i Othello.

From achafte matron, and a virtuous wife. Smith.

BRrcKCLAY. n.f. [from irick and day.']

Bacon,

prevent the deformity of a faddte nofe.

!

!

Bri'debed. 71./. [from briJe and bed.]

Sivift.

Shakefpeare,

?

And proud Araxes, whom no bridge could bind.

Sung fpnufal, aud bid hade the ev'ning (Var,

laid, and whetl»cr his grave is to be plaia or bricked.

Bri'ckearth.

BRIDGE, n. / [bpic, Saxon.]

Shakiffeart.

with bricks.
The fexton corats to know where he is to be

Bri'ckbat. ». /. [from ^riV;4 and ia/.]

the workhoufes and Bridewells in Europe.
Speffaler.

all

The amorous bird of night

On his hili-top to light the bridal lamp.

A houfe of

He would contribute more to reformation than

Bri'dal. adj. [from bride.] Belonging
to a wedding ; nuptial ; connubial.

To Brick, -v. a. [from the noun.] To lay

I obferved it in pits wrought for tile

Bm Jonfin.

R.<und about the bridfjiah.

The irWa/of the earth and (ky.

ufe of builders.
For whatfoever doth

in the ground,

to dance round, like a maypole.

Bri'ck-maker. ». /. [from brick and
BRI'DEWELL. ». / [The palace built
mait.]
One whole trade it is to make
St. Bride's, or Bridget's 'uirll, wa*
They are common in claypits ; but the brickmalen pick them out of the clay.
TVu^ivard

Afieftion is. ftlU a iritcr of the judgment ; and
it is hard for k man to admit a reafon againll the
thing he loves ; or to confefs the force of an
South.
argument againft an intereft.

2.

A kiln

by

pays for corrupt praflices.

.

Bri'decroom. ». /. [from bride and
gresm.] A new married man.

Brick-kiln. n./. [from brick and kilx.]

and not properly, ufed in

of taking or giving rewards

Spefftitor.

his pillow.

fifortimrr.

bricks.

!

t.

and on gravel.

Prologue tt> Ccod-ra:ured Mart.

How pow'rful ai« chafte vows the wind and tide
You iriJV to combat on the Englilh fide. DryJBri'ber. «. /. [from iriii.] One that

'

Ir'iiettl; which he placed t»Ty conveniently under

They grow very well both an the haieflyinVIlartht,

tiplied the rrore for their opprerti'ir*. l^fcdy ofPkiy.

You have condcmn'd and noted Lucius Pella,
Shakijf.
For tiking kritei btte of the Sardians.

I.

B R I

6 R I

'BtLl
figiiified,

.

bridle in riding.
In the turning, one might perceive the bridle^
hand fomething gently ftir ; but, indeed, fo gently^

Prior.

Bri'decake. n.f. [from bride and cake.]

A cake diflributed to the guells at tlic

as it did rather dillil virtue tiiaa ufe violence.

wedding.

Sidney,

With the phant'fies of hey-troll,

The heat of fummer put his blood into a fer-

Troll about the bridal bowl,
And divide the broad bridecake

ment, which afftdicibis iridlehand with great pain.
H^i/eman*

Ben "jsnjcn.
Round about the bridecake.
The writer, refolved to try his fortune, failed all

BRIEF, adj.

day, and, that he might be furc of dreaming upon

I.

fotnctlung a( jiight, f iwvucU tux handi'usic ilice of
I

[brevis, Lat. brief, Fr.]

Short ; concife.
but of wofdSi.

It is now feldom ufed

A play

'

:

.

.

.

B R I

B R I

B R I

A piiy there is, my lord, fome ten wotdi long, BRI'GADE. «./ [brigade. Fir.

Which h ai trie/ 3i 1 have known a play;
But by-ten woras, my lord, it is too long.
Which makes it tedious.
Sbaiiffcart.
I will be mild and gentle in my words.—

•

A

mud begin with ridiments of art.

To teach you gamut in a br'uftr fort,
Klore plcafant, pretty, and elie^ual. Shaitffeare.
They nothing doubt prevailing, and to make it
hriffvnn.
Stairff tare's CmoUnus.
The irkf llile it that which expreffeth much in
little.
Ben Jmfon.
If I had quoted more words, I had quoted niore
profancnefs; and therefore Mr. Congrevehas reafon
to thank me for being brief.
Col/ier.
'2.

Contrafted ; narrow.
The rtirine of Venus, or ftraightpight Minerva,
Poftures beyond iri^nature.

a body of men, confifting of
feveral fquadrons of horfe, or battalions

7. Uluflrious ; glorious.

of foot.

r til' brightef annals of a female reign.
Cottm,
To Bri'ghten. <i;. a. [from bright.]

Bri'cade Majtr.

This is the wor/l, if not the only (lain,

The purple morning, rifing with the year.

An officer appointed

by the brigadier to affift him in the management and ordering of his brigade ;
and he there ad« as a major does in an
army.

Salutes the fpring, as her cclellinl eyes

Adorn the world, and brighten up the (kies. Dr/J,
out.

An ecftacy, that mothers oiily feel,

Harris.

mands a brigade of horfe or foot in an
army ; next in order below a major ge-

Plays round my heart, and brightens all my forrow.
Like gleams of funfhine in a louring iky. Philips^

3.

•re comprifed in a fhort and compendious way of
writing.
^ylife.

^

I will ygjr highnefs thus in iWc/advife. Fairy
I doubt not but I (hall make it plain, as far as a
fum or brief
make a caufe plain.
Bacon.

Hope elevates, and joy

an

There might be a rout of fuch barbarous thicvifli
brigands in fome rocks ; but it was a degeneration
from the nature of man, a political creature.

It brightened Craggs's, and m.iy darken thine.

A light veffel

fuch as has been formerly ufed by corfairs or pirates.

would exert her authority to inftil virtues
into her people.
Sifift-

Yet time ennobles or degrades each line ;

To fighr, lays forth her threatful pikes afore

to dear up : as, the iky brightens.
But let a lord once own the happy lines.

How tlie (lile brightens, how the fen(e refines Pofet
Bri'ghtlv. a^/v. [itota bright .] Splen*
!

didly ; with luftre.

The engines, which in them fad^^ath do hide.
S^cnjer.

J. [In law.]

In'yoor iriganiint yoo fail'd to fee
The Adtiatick wedded. Oiway's yejiiee Preferfeii.

A writ v/hercby a man is fummoned to anfwer

to any aQion ; or it is any precept of the king in
writing, irtuing out of any court, whereby he com-

manJb any thing to be done.
Cctocll.
4. The writing given the pleaders, containing the cafe.

The brief v'wh weighty crimes was cbarg'd.
On which the pleader much cnhrg'd.
Swifi.
5. Letters patent, gFving licence to a charitable colledion for any publick or pri-

2.

Milton.

Then fhook the facred (hrine, and fudden light

2.

Br.gtt IS the fun her eyes the gazers ftrike. Ptfe.

Cnmdtn,

Then thrice under a brUr doth creep,
Which ^t both ends was rojled deep.
And over it three times doth leap ;
H'rmagick much availing. Draytn't Nymfh'J.
Bri'ery. adj. [from brier.] Rough;
thorny ;
B?.i';,

full of briers.

and poflibly alfoBRix,

is

derived

from the Saxon bpicp^, a bridge; which,
to this da^-,

in the

is called a brigg, and

The brightnefs of his parts, the foltdity of'hii
judgment, and the candour and generoiity of hi*
temper, diltinguilhed him in an age of great politcnefs.
.

tre ;

So have I fecn in laidcr dark

Thcmfon.

With fparklir.g plenty crowns the bowl.
4. Clear ; evident.

Of v^al a lucid loin.

^

Replete with many a IrilliaBt fpark.

Fentm.

As wife philofophers remark.
At once both (link and fliine.

He muft not proceed too fwiftly, that he may

with m .re cafe, with brighter evidence, and with
furcc fuccels, draw the learner on.
If^iitti's Jmprviiimtnt of the

Bri'lliant.

To (hew yoti what the reft in orders were;
This brilliunt is fo fpotlefs and fo briglit,

He needs not foil, but (liines by his own proper

Piu-nel.

O Liberty', thou g-iddefs hcav'nly bright,
Prnfufe of blifs, and prcgnantwith deliglit jidjif.
Bright as the fun, and like the morning fair,
Such Chlocis, and commtfU as the air. Gr.tn'viUe.
To-day black omens threat the brigbteji fair

light.

Bri'lliantness. n. /.

I

'-'cr

engagd a w:<tchtul (piril's care.

Vtpe.

h'ju mure dreaded foc, bright Lcaury, (hine.

northern counties,
not a bridge.

6. Illuminated

Gibjon'i Camden.

with wit.

t'cuni^,

with fcienc« ;

Dorfd.

A diamond of tlie

In deference to his virtues, I forbear

Tiiy beauty appeal ^.,
In iti graces mi aiis.
All hrigbt at an angel new dropp'd from the (ky.

'1

n. /,

fineft cut, formed into angles, fo as te
refrail the light, and ihine more.

Mind,

Refplendent with charms.

'I'll. it

fplendour.

BRl'LLIANT. adj. [brilLnt, Fr.] 'Shin-

Wiiilf the bright Seine, t' exalt the foul.

5.

Prior.

B R i'l T. I A N c r »./. [from brilliant.] Luf-

ing; fparkling; fplendid; full of luftre.

He'd turn abhoncnt.

A

Sbakej'feare.

Acutenefs,

2.

Vryden.

Clear; tranfpicuous.
From the brighifl wines

3.

?

Prior,

Shining, as a body reflefting light.
B' igbt brafs, and brighter domes.
Chapman.
Thy c)es are fc:n In diamonds bright.
Guy.

nefs ; ftiortnels.

Sax.]
plant.
The fweet and the wild forts are both
fpecies of the rofe.
What fubtle hole is this,
Whofe m^uth is covet'd with rude growing hrien f

South,

Why feek we brifhtn^s from the yeart to come

Sprung through the roof, and made the temjle

Bri'efness. »./ [horn brief.] Concife-

[bpiji.

will contrail a ruft,

Dark, with exceffive bright, thy (klrts appear.

The modeft queen awhile, with downcaft eye.,
Ponder'd the fpeech j then briefy thus replies.

nef« and propriety, in quicknefs and brirfnefi,

ftill,

That's both her lullrc and her (hade.
Hudiirau
Vex'd with the prelent moment's heavy gloom.

bright.

They excel in grandity and gravity, in fmooth-

Fisiiy ^a«»,

A fwerd, by long lying

which fliall deface it> brightnefs.
The moon put on her veil of light,
Myilerious veil, of brightnefs made.

Drnwn round about thee like a radiant (hrine.

Baar.

n. f.

To tell, were as Co (Irive againft the lircam*

Through a cloud

in few words.

BRI'ER.

A coat of mail.

Shining ; full of light.

Brie'fly. ad'i/. [^irom. brie/.'] Concifely;

Drydcn.

The blazing brightnefs of her beauty's bcam^
And glorious light of her fun-lhining fjce.

Arbutbmt.

BRIGHT. a^J. [beont. Saxon.]

which contains two ftrokes down in
beating time, and as many up. Harris.

iriejiy.

Luftre ; fplendour ; glitter.

1

Arid brig^ndine of biafs, thy broad baberg-^on,
Vantb.aCs, and groves. Mit'lcn's Semfm .Agoniftes.

A meafure of quantity,

I will (peak in that manner which the fubjefl
requires ; that is, probably, and moderately, and

Safely I (lept, till brightly dawning fllone

The morn, confpicuous on her golden throne. Pope*
BitrcHTNEss. Tt. /. [from bright.]

Then put on all thy gorgeous arms, thy helmet

1

vate lofs.
6. [In mufick.]

The conful obliged him to deliver up his fleet,
and rellore the flilps, refcrving only to himfdf two
brigamints.

Pofe^

To make acute, or witty.
TV Bri'ghten. v. n. To grow bright J
5.

;

Like as a wiilike hrigandiae, apply'd

that arife here are impregnated with vitriol.

The prefent queen would brighten her charafler,
if (he

Bri'cANDINE. 7
r re
I
J1
Br.'cantine.I "/Urombrtgand.]

The brief of this tranfaflion is, thefe fpriogs

Mihoii't Paradife Loflt

To make illuilrious.

4.

one that belongs to a band of robbers.

BrambaU egainfi Hohbes.

1.

To make gay, or cheerful,
Brightens his creft.

Bri'gand. n./. [brigand, Fr.] A robber;

The apoftolical letters are of a twofold kind and
diflerence ; vm. fome are called brief!, becaufe they

But how you mail begin this enterprize,

To make luminous by light from with-

2.

Brig adi'eh. General. An officer who com-

Sbakefpeare.

A ihort cxtraft, or epitome.

To make bright ; to make to Ihine.

1.

neral.

Make choice of which your highnefs will fee firft.

2.

forces ;

Or fronted IrigaJa form.
MUton.
Here the Bavarian duke his brigades leads,
Gallant in arms, and gaudy to behold.
Philips.

Stake/peare.

Brief., n. /. \_brief, Dutch, a letter.]
A writing of any kind.
1
There is a briif, how many fports arc ripe

It is now

generally pronounced with the accent
on the latt fyllable.]
divifion of

—And br'nff^gooA mother, for I am in hallc Skak.
I

Gen'rons, gay, and gallant nation,
Great in arms, and bright in art.
jinoKymciit,
If parts allure thee, thjnk how Bacon (hin'd.
The wifeft, brightej}, meaneft of mankind. Pope,

fparklinf

Splendcrtir ;

Dryden.
[t'rom brilliarrt.]

luftre.

Brills, n. /. The hair on the eyelids of
a horfe.

Di^t.

BRIM. «. /

[l.-im, Jcelandifti.]

edge of any thing.
Hii lijt biiog in the form of a turban, daintily

'J"he

I.

m:! ic,

tlie

locks of his hair iMsttc down about the

brims of it.

Bticcn,

G g 2

3.

The

!

;

!

.

She tam'd the btinitd lioncft
And fpottcd mountain pard.

The upper edge of any veflel.

».

How my head in ointiticnt fwiras
How my cup o'erlookt her trims

!

My brirJ:d heifer to the flake I lay

Crtjhavi.

Bri'ndle.

Above the brimi they force their fiery way.

The

;

Drjdtn.

Now horrid hays
Commence, the himmiag glaffcs now arc hurl'd
With diie intent.
.
i^l
Bri'mkul. atij. [from in-im and full.]
Full to the top ; overcharged.
Meafurc my cafe, how by thy beauty's filling
With feed of woes my heart irimful is chargd.

3.

I brought ;

I

More wonderful
Than that which, by creation, firft brought forth
Paradije Lofl.
Light out of darknefs
Bewail thy falfehood, and the pious w:>rks
It hath brought forth, to make thee memorable

*-"'5'-

bread in thy hanJ.
fecurities
rcgillry of lands may furnifli eafy
ftrangers.
of money, that fliall be brougbt over by
Temple.

A

When healths go lound, and kindly tcmmers
foreheads glow.
Drydert.

[corrupted from irw
Sul-

Frbm his infernal furracc forth he threw
light,
Huge flames, that dimmed all the heaven's
brimjioae blue.

Fairy ^^en.

I can fee no
fuppofed to be fulphure.us, though
put a whole bunTcafon for fuch a fuppof.tion : 1
matches to the fmo^ce,
dle of lighted brimfimt
Mdifin on Italythey all went out in an \ai\int.

Bri'mstonY. aJJ. [from brimfione.]
,

,

i

a branch.]
Streaked ; tabby ; marked with ftre.tks.
Fr.

mcw'd.

the man after Gods own heart to
his g.i.lt.

r.

a tight fcnfc ot

Sp^""--

to draw along.
and
In dilliUation, the water afcends difficultly,
the oil of vitriol.
brines over with it fome part of

To attradl

;

Neiuf-'ns Optfihs.

Full

fulphur ; fuiof biimftone ; containing

phureous.

There is mthing will bring you more honour,
jnftKe
and more eafe, than to do what tight in
^''""^
you may.
4. To reduce; to recal.
minds, by
JBrinf back gently their wandering
purfue,
going before them in the Uain they flioulJ
L«^.:
without any rebuke.
bring
Nathan's fable had fo good an edeQ, as (o

generally

The vapour of the prtito del Cane is

but bring.
Drydoi.

To produce; to procure, as a caufe.

3.

6.

To put into any particular ftate or circumllances ; to make liable to any thing.
Having got the way of reafoning, which th.n
might be
ftuJy necelfarily brings the mind to, they
as
able to transfer it to other parts of knowledge,
they ihaii have oci;»Con.

Tillotfon.
caufeth enmity and animof ty.
The value of land is raif,;d, when it is fitted
valuable
of
any
to bring forth a greater quantity

^"^'•

produft.

To bring forth.

12.

L«h.

To bring to light.,

The tiling that is hid bringeth he forth to light.

not to

And if my wilh'd alliance pleafe your king,

Dryden.

/mJ

'Job, xxxviii.

13. To bring in.

Tell bim he fliould not fend the peace,

the brim.
And twice bcfidcs her beeftmgs never fail.

ftone.]

;

fend by another.

Full to

To ftorc the dairy with a brimming pail.

To convey in one's own hand

2.

,

,

Milton's Samjcn AgoniSts.

Bellona le-ids thee to thy lover's hand ;
Another queen brings forth another brand.
To burn with foreign fires her native land Dryd.
poverty and
Idlenefs and luxury inr^
want j.and this tempts men to injuftice, an.1 that
!

was the chief that rais'd him to the crown.

thee, a morfel ot
her, and faid, Srir.g me, I pray

-

Bri'mming. adj. [from hrim-l

Among illuftrious women, faithful wives.

And I'll be chief to bring him down again.
And as flie was going to fetch it, he called to

A bowl

full to the -top.

brought ; bpoht.

Shak.

SbakeJpearesHen.W.

Bri'mmer. «./. [from brim.l

part. paff.

another place.

.

Thiice the i«iiJ.<< cat bath

Shatefpeare.

To

Addijm^s Cato

{b,in,

The good queen.

fetch from another place : dmm1.
guilhed from to carry, or convey, to

The Scot on his unfurnifli'd kingdom
Came pouring like a tide into a beach,
With ample ar.d brimfuhcfs of his force.

adj.

For flic is good , hath brought you forth a daughter
Here 'tis ; commends it to your bleffing. Shakcjp.

Sax.]

Bh'mfulness. »./. {hombrtmfuL] tul-

Bri'nded.

Then I lov'd thee.

!

cry'd,
His eyes brimful of tears ; then fighing

Enioli'd in dulkifh fmoke and

to

;

produce.

To BRING. V. a. [bprnjan. Sax. preter.

Drydens Fables.
Rcleas'd their watry ftore.
The good old king at parting wrung my hand.

'

To give birth to

To bring forth.

XI.

for the ad-

jiddifcn's FrceholJtr.

vantage of the publick.

[from brine and pit.]

tile.

Her trimful eyes, that ready ftood.

or hresfione,,. that is, fiery
See Sulphur.
phur.

to bring about feveral great events,

And ftiew'd thee all the qualities o' th' iflc.
The frefti fp.ings, brinepits, barren place, and fer-

And only wanted will to weep a flood,

,

This he conceives not hard to bring about.
If all of you would join to help him out.
Dryden's Indian Emperor.
This turn of mind threw off the oppofitiuns of
envy and competition ; it enabled him to gain the

Pit of fait water.

Shake/pear^'! J. Cafar.

To

To bring about. [See About.]
bring to pafs ; to effect.

!

Stakefpeare.

We have try'd tlie utmoft of our friends;

on
^"\'-

to lefledt

.

moft vain and impraiSlicable into his defigns, and

Hath waOi'd thy fallow cheeks for Rofaline

Our legions are brimful, our caufe is ripe.

bnught

1(3.

?*'''/'•

Roars ftormy.
Tears, as they aye fait.

/.

is

verfion than any of the idle fports in falhion, if
men could but be brcught to delight in them. Locke.

What a deal of brini

Sitlney.

,

Morltmer.

AH but mariners,

t!.

to prevail upon.

It fcems fo prepollcrous a thing to men, to make
themfelves unhappy in order to happinefs, that
Lickt.
they do not eafily bring themfelves to it.
Profitable employments would be no lefs a di-

fea, as jt is fait.

Bri'nepit.

;

tliem.

Engage with horrid fliock, the ruffled trine

TaBniM. V. «. To be full to the brim.

nefs to the top.

;

the veflijl,

t

To induce

liow, or whcnfoever, he

in this li-

Plung'd in the foaming brine, did quit
Sbakefl-eare's Tempeji.
Then all afire with me.
Tlie air was calm, and on the level brine
play'd. Afi/«».
Slcc!- Panope, with all her fifters,
As, when two adverfe winds

This faiJ, a dauble wreath Evandet twin'd

Locke.

to fummons.
But thofe, and m^re than 1 to mind can br'ng,
Dryden.
Menalcas has not yet forgot to fing.
;

words, would not fuffer him to think ociierwiic,

we fee brine, when

much fait as will make a ftrong brine
2.

And poplars black and white bis' temples bind
Then trim his arhple bowl witli like dcfign.
The reft invoke the gods with fpiinkled wme.

Till the fteih gatUi>4> <"» tlrcir

a;.-

To recal

The nature of the things, contained in thofe

enough, will bear an egg.
Bacon's Natural Hifiory.
and add to it as
Difl"olvc flieepsdung in water,

Miltve.

Prithee, be careful of my fon.

9.

^ ^ ,

ic is fait

.

.

.

The encrcjfmg of the weight of water will cncrcafe its powrr of bearing ;

Their full tribute aever mils

Bri'mstone. n.f.

,

quor ftecp your com.

.

8.

Water impregnated with lalt.

1

and knotty parts of knowledge by infenfible

degrees.

aim the fatal dart.
Addijin s Ovia.

May thy trimmeJ waves,

flow,

ficult

!

BRINE. «. /.

to the top.

:

L'FJlrai^c.
us home to ourfelves.
The undcrftanding fliould be brought to the dif-

Clanjfa.

[from irMlt.] Brind-

And ftrikc the brindled raonfter to the heart.

It told me it VIM Cynthia's own,
Within \shofe cucert'ul hr.iKt
That curious nymjih !nd oft been known
Draytatt.
To bathe her fnowv limbs.
fe Br I M. or. «. [from the noun.] To fill

.

aJj.

'Ihe bear, my fiflers

The bank of a fountain.

-,

A due confideration of the vanitiei of die world,
will naturally bring us to the contempt of it ; and
the contempt of the world will as certainly bring

ed ; ilreaked.

yc/^aa, iii. 15'

From a thoufand rills.

To lead by degrees.

7.

The

briitded.]

A natu.-.il brimHe.
Bri'ndi.ed.

You fljall obfcrve, as you are fiUing,
Swif:.
The pond'rous metal fcenii to fwim.
3. The top of any liquor.
The feet of the prieits, that bar« the ark, were

.

J

ftate of being brinded.

nrjden\ Mki'u'Tlius in a bafon droj. a fliilling,
Thin fill the velicl to the prim.

dipped in the irim 6f the water,

[from

n. f.

The^oeftlon for bringing the king to Juftleewu
immediately put, and carri-d without any oppofi.
Swift's Prtjbyurian flea.
tion, that I can find.

Mill"

Two thriving calves (lie fuckles twice a-day. Vryd.

So when with crackling flames a cjutdron fries,
The bubbling water* from the bottom rife,

4.

B R I

B R I

B R I

f 1.

To place m any condi-

tion.

He protefts he loves you.
And needs no other fuitor, but his liking.
Shakejpeare't OcbcUo.
To brin^ you in again.
To bring in. To reduce.

14..

Send over into that realm fuch a ftrong power
of men, as IhoulJ p:rforce bring in all that rebelSpcfrr en Ireland.
lious rout, and loofc people.
\c.

To bring in.

To afford gain.

The fole meafure of all his couvtefies is, what
return they will make him, and what revenue tlu-y
Soutu.

will bring him in.

Licke.
TraJe brought us ifi plenty and riches.
introduce. .,
16. To Iring in.
Entertain no long difcoutle with any ; but, if

To

vou can, bring in fometliing to feafon it with

reli-

"^"y'"]

gion.

,

There is but one God who made heaven and

and madearth, and fea and winds; but the foUy
of gods.
ncfs of mankind brought in the images
StiUingJUett
fruitfutnefs of Italy, and the like, arc not

The

brought

in

argument.

by force, but naturally

rife out

of ti.e

^'j^S'--

Since

;
;

B R

state he could not hjve a kit among th«m
he would iring in one who had more
Tat/er.

Bjerit.

Quotations arc beft bnugbt in
opinion controverted.

To bring off.

To clear

;

to confirm fome

Sivift^

to procure to

be acquitted ; to c«ufe to efcape.
I

tn}ilsd

to

m_v head, that has betrayed me;

and I found fault with my legs, that would othttL'EJirangc.
vi\(thi\chnugbt me off.
Set a kite upon the bench, and it is forty to one
VEJirangt.
he'll tring effi crow at the bar.
The bed way to avoid this imputation, and to
iring off the credit of our underftanding, is to be
TiUcifon.

truly religious.

To tring on.

li.

To engage in aftion.

If there be any that would reign,

.

and take up

all the time, let him find means to take them ort,

Bacon.

and hrlTTP others es.

19. To bring on.
fional caufe.

;

:

B R I

B R I

I

hjmfelt',

17.

;

To produce as 8tn occa-

Bri'skst. »./. [brichet.ft.'] The breaft

m

canhe brought his tomf anion out. The
ing is, that he was brought to fomething

of an animal.
See that none of the wool be wanting, that their

that was likewife 'without.

gums be red, teeth white and even, and the brijket

Eri'ncer. n.f, [from bring.'\ The perfon
Hath but a lofiiig office

:

Bri'skly. adv. [from brifi.l Aftively
vigoroufly.

and h'S tongue
Sbairfpcarc.

Beft you fee fafe the hi ingcr
I mv.ft attend rain= office. Sbairfp.

Outof the hoft

Bri'nger tjp,
adj.

[from

brine.\^

For now I fiand, as one upon a rock,
Environ'd with a wildernefs of fea.

Who marks the waxing tide grow'wave by wave

occafions of fmall importance, and only with a
view of bringing over his own fide, another time,
to fomething of greater and more publick moment.
Stvift^i Cburcb cf England Mur.
The proteftant clergy will find it, perhaps, no
difficult matter to brig great numbers ovtr to the

Swift.

church.

To exhibit; to (hew.

If I make not this cheat bring out another, and
the /heaters prove flieep, let me be unrolled,
HbactJiieart's IVinler't Tali.

Which he could bring out, where he had.
And what he bought them for, and paid. HuJibras.
Thefe Ihake his foul, and, as they boldly prefs.
Bring out his crimes, and force him to corfeft.

but thofe cxperimenta bring ail the denarius heajirbutbnot.

vier-

22. To bring under. To fubdue ; to reprefs.
That Iharp courfe which you have fet down,
for the bringing under of thofe rebels of Ulllcr,
and preparing a way for their perpetual reforma-

not open my lips fo wide as a briftic mayShakejpeare.
He is covered with hair, and not, as the boar,
with brijiles, which probably fpend more upon the
fame matter, which, in other creatures, makes the
horns ; for briflles feem to be nothing elfe but a
Crew.
hoin fpli: into a multitude of little ones.
Two boars whom love to battle draws.
With rifing brijllei, and with frothy jaws.
Their adverfe breafts with tulks oblique they
1 will

enter.

A

;

Thecteft if youth againft your dignity.

To Bri'stle.

:

Pr'ythee, die, and fet me free,

To Bristle a thread.

adj. [from ^////f.] Thick fet
with briftles.
The leaves of the black mulberry are fomewhat
briflly, which may help to preferve the dew. Bacon.

U the eye were fo acute as to rival the fincft

From Icwer parts to load the brain
Each in his way, as briJk as he?

raicrofcopc, the fight of our own fclvcs would affright us i the fmoothcft (kin would be befct with
Vrisir.

BentUy,
rugged Icales and brifily hairs.
Thus maftful beech the brifily chcftnut bears.
And the wild alh is white with bloomy pears.
Dryden.
The careful mafter of the fwine,
Pope.
Forth haftcd he to tend his hriftlcd care.

Powerful ; fpirituous.
Our jiaturc here is riot unlike our wine
Some foru, when old, continue briji and fine.

To introduce to gene-

Denbam.

Under ground, the rude Riph«an race

Several obliging deferences, condefcenfions, and

Mimick briJk cyder, witii tl-e brake's produil wild,

fubmifiions, with many outward forms and ceremo.

PbUlpt.

part of mankind, who lived in courts and cities.

j

wardj ibmethiog ; for it is oft faid, that

Of this kind of cryftal are the better and larger

It mult needs be

fome extcriovir caufe, and the
brifi acting of fome objefls without rac, whofe
Locke.
eflicacv I cannot rcfift.

SptSator.

To caufe to advance.
25. To bring up.
Bring up your army but 1 tliink you'll find.
They've not prepar'd for us.
Shahrj'peare.
26. Bring retains, in all its fenfes, the idea
of an agent, or caufe, producing a real
or metaphorical motion of fomething to-

a kind of foft diamond
found in a rock near the city of Briltol.

Bri'stol stone,

Sloes pounded, hips, and fcrvis' barflieft juice.

nies, were firft of all brought up among the politer

3.

lort

of Brijiol-Jlonei, and the K-eriy ftone? of Irefi'codward.

land,

B KIT. n.f. The name of a fifli.

This is not ufed.

Vivid; bright.
Objefts appeared much darker, bccaufe my in-

The pilchards were wont to purfue the brit,
Cartiv.
upon which they feed, into the havens.

ftrument was overchargrd; had it magnified tiiirty
or twenty-five times, it had made the objeft appear
Ncivtcn.
more iri/l and pleafant.

To Brisk uf. v. n.

To fix a biiftle

Bri'stly.

When other limbs wl plainly fee.
2.

Sbakejp.

To ftand ereil as

to it.

Denham,
A creeping young fellow, that had committed
matrimony with a briJk gamefomc lafs, was fo altered in a few days, that lie was likcr a Ikeleton
L^Ejtrangc.
than a living mar.
Why Ihould all honour then 'oe ta'cn

Kind and brijk and gay, lilte me.

Sidney.

n.

Be it ounce, or cat, or bear,
Pard, or boar with brijiled hair.
In thy eye that fliall appear.
Sbttkifp,
When thou wak'ft, it is thy dear.
Stood Theodore furpria'd in deadly fright,
With chatt'ring teeth, and hnJUing hair upright;
'
Dryden.
"Vet ar:ird with inborn worth.
Thy hair fo briftln with unmanly fears.
Dryden.
As fields of corn that rife in bearded cars.

Or elfe be

The well bringing up of the people, ferves as a

11.

briftles.

applied to men.

to inllrudl

He that takes upon him the charge of bringing
up youn^ men, efpccially young gentlemen, fhould
have fomething more in him than Latin.
Locke.
They frequently converfed wiih this lovely virgin, who had been bnugbt up by her father in
knowledge.
Addijon: Gidnrdian.

And fn.irlcth in the gentle eyes of peace. Shaksfp.
Which makes him plume himfclf, and hriflle up

Addifon.

Bri'ony. See BayoKy.
BRISK, adj. [bru/qtie, Frtench.]
1. Lively; vivacious; gay; fprightly

to form.
rroft fure bond to hold them.

Now for the bare plckt bone of majefty.
Doth dogged war briftle his angry creft.

by a mixture of an acid and alkaline fait ; for fpirit
of fait, and fait of tartar, mixed, produce a fait like
Arbutbnoi.
fea ialr.

hath fuch right to govern, as he may comSaccn.

To

ereft in briftles.

A muriatick or briny tafte feems to be produced

pulforily bnrg under the lefs worthy, is idle.

To educate

Salt.

He, who firft the pafTage try'd.

To fay, that the more capable, or the better de-

Dryden.

wound.

To Bri'stle. t). a. [from the noun.]

In harden'd oak his heart did i.ide;
Or his, at leaft, in hoilow wood.
Dryden.
Who tcmpt"d fi 1 t^'.e briny flood.
Then, triny leas, and [jftc.'i.l fprings, farewel.
Where fountain nymphs, confus'd with Nereids,

Sptnjcr.

tion.

24. To bring up.
ral pradUce.

hair of fwine.

Th' amazed flames ftand gathcr'd in a heap.
And from the precipice's brink rctiie.
Dryden.
Afraid to venture on fo large a leap.
We ftand therefore on the brinki and confines
jilterbury.
of thofe ftates at the day of doom.
So have I fcen, from Severn's brink,
flock of geefe jump down together;
Swim where the bird of Jove would fink,
And, fwimming, never wet a feath'^r.
Swift,

dwell.

Dryden.

and his good-humour.

BRl'STLE. n.f. [bpifcl. Sax.] The ftifF

BRINK. »./. [brini, Danifti.] The edge

Bri'ny. adj. [from brine."]

Gayety.
But the moft diftlnguifliing part of his charafter feems to me to be his brijhnefi, his jollity,

nefs ; tendency to faltnefs.

Drydcn.

Another way made ufe of, to find the weight of
the denarii, was by the weight of Greek coin?

To bring tip.

2.

j

Expecting ever when fome envious furge
Sbakiff.
Will, in his brinijh bowels, fw.iiloW him.

ver.

This liberty (hould be made ufe of upon few

.

Some remains of corruption, thouijh they do
not conquer and extinguifti, yet will llacken and
allay, the vigour and brijknefi of the renewed prinSouth.
ciple.

To hear and fee her plaints, her brinijh tears. Sbak.

of any place, as of a precipice or a ri-

23

Bri'sknESS. n.f. [from brifk.]
1. Livelinefs ; vigour; quicknefs.

the tafte of brine ; fait.
Nero would be tainted with remorfe

20. To bring over.. To Convert ; to draw to

fierver,

Ray on the Creation.

Having

Bri'nishness. n.f. [from brinifi,] Salt-

21. To iring out.

could plainly perceive the creature to fuck in
many of tlie moft minute animalcvila, that were
"* fwimming brijkly about in the water.
1

Inllruftor; educator.

Italy and Rome have been breeders and bri'igen
Ajcham's Scboolmajier.
up of the worthlcft men.

Bri'nish.

Boyle.

on it.

:

The fountains of the great deep being broke
open, fo as a general deitruilion and devaftation
was bnugbt upon the earth, and all things in it.
Burned Tbccry.
The great queftion, which in ail ages has difturbed mankind, and hrtvght on them thofe mifLocke.
chiefs.
a new party.

We have feen the air in the bladder fuddenly
expand itfelf fo much, and Co brijkly, that it manifelHy lifted up fome light bodies that leaned up-

Sounds ever after as a fullen bell,

Remcmber'J tolling a dead friend.

Mortimer.

fkin red.

that brings any thing.
Yet the firft hringer of unwelcome news

To Br IT E.
7
To Bright, j

Barley, wheat, or
*>^
hopsi are faid to brite,
when they grow over-ripe.

To come up briikly.
I

""•

BRI'TTLE.

.

;

:

:

B R O

B R O

B R O

BRITTLE, adj. [brurran, Saxon.] Fra-

This Dpinion u commonly, but falfely, tferibed to Arillotle, not as its fitft broacher, but as its
Cbeyne.
ablcft pjtron.

Broad-leaved. eidj. [from ir»iui and

gile ; apt to break ; not tough.
The wood of vines U very durable ; though no
tree

hath the twigs, while they are green,

fo

iriitli, yet the wood dried i< extremely tough.

Baccrt.

Wide; extended

I.

in

guiHied from length ;

ff'^ooj-ivtird on Tojftltp

breadth, diftinnot narrow.

Sbakcjteare.

the bottom narrower.

If the (lone ii hriitli, it will often crumble, and
Arttiibnct.
the form of gravel.

Temple.

Of all your knowledge this vain fruit you have,
To walk with e)TS broad open to your grave. Dryd.

Bri'ttleness. tt.f, ffrom irii/Je.] Apt-

jijcham^s Sctoolmafttr.

So lofty was the pile, a Parthian bow,
Witiv vigour drawn, muft fend the fliaft below,
The bottom was full twenty fathom bread. DryJen.
He hunch'd the fiery bolt from pole to pole.

Artificers, in the tempering of ftecl, by holding

Broad burft the lightnings, deep the thiindera roll.

ncfs to break ; fragility.
A u'it quick without brightnefs, diarp without

it but a minute or two longer or lefTer in the flame,

give it very differing tempers, as to brittlcnifi or
toughnefs.
£iyU.

BiiiZE.

n. f.

Pefe.

wifdom.

SpenJ<r.

3.

BROACH. «. / Ibroche, French.]
I. A fpit.
He was taken into fervice to a bafe office in his
kitchen ; fo chat he turned a breach, that had
worn a cruwn.
Bacon's Hary VII.
Whofe oiTercd entrails (hall his crime reproach,

And drip their fatnefs from thi; hazle breach. Dryd.

A mufical inftrument, the founds of
which are made by turning round a han-

4.

Dia.

[With hunters.] A ftart of the head
of a young ftag, growing fharp like the
endofalpit.
Di<3.

3.

^rofifZ-fpeaking, gap-toothed wife of Bath. Dryeien.

Love made him doubt his ^r0^^ barbarian found ;
By love, his want of words and wit he found.

7i Broach, i'. a. [from the noun.]

DryJen.
If open vice be what you drive at,

To fpit ; to pierce as with a fpit.

1

A name fo broad we'll ne'er connive at.

"Were now the general of our gracious emprcfs.
As in good time he may, from Ireland coming,

upon a Hick.

5.

This errour, that Pifon was Ganges, was firft
iroached by Jofephus.
Raleigh.
Thofe who wc:e the chief inftruments of raifing
the nolle, made ufc of thofe very opinions themfelves had bnacted, for arguments to prove that tlic
change of miniftci-s was dangerous, Stvift'i Exam.

The youth approach'd the fire, and, as Itbum'd,

On five n-iitpbrt^etcrs rankM,the roaft they turu'd
Thcfc m jrfeU ftay'd their ftomachi.
2.

author.

Theie is much pride .ind vanity in the afifeAation of being the orfl broacher of an heretical opinion.

L'EJlrar.ge.

Numerous parties denominate themfclves, not
from the grand Autiior and Finifticr of our tiith,
but from the firft broachtr of their idolized opiniont.
Decay of P'uty.

Speilator.

The fide of a fhip, diftin£t from the
head or ftern.
From vafter hopes than this he fcem'd to fall.
That durft attempt the Biit5lh admiral
From her broadfidci a ruder Jlame is thrown.

Than from the fiei7 chariot of tlie fun. Waller.
The volley of Ihot fired at once from
the fide of a fliip.
3. {In printing.] A iheet of paper, containing one large page.
Bro'adsword. n. f. [from broad and
fiuord.] A cutting fword, with a broad
2.

blade.
He, in fighting a duel, was run through the
thigh with a broadfword.

houfc to put his head in? Such may
great buildings.

ber, the iron would not fall as long as the force
of the hand petfevercs to ptefs againft it.
Boyle.

BROCA'DE.

».

Macduff lives in difjjrace.

The mobile .ire llill for levelling; that is to fay,

Broad-cloth.
cloth.']

».

/

[from broaei and

A fine kind of cloth.

Thus, a wife tayior is not pinching,
But turns at ev'ry feam an inch in

I

have the convcniency of buying and imporcng

rich brocadet.

Forget her pray'rs, or mifs a mafque.aJc.

1.

2.

Gay.

Bro'cace. n.f. [from brcie.]
1. The gain gotten by promoting bargains.

Yet fure his hencfty
Got him fmall gains, but Ihamclcfs flattery,

And filthy brocage, and unfccmly ftiifts.
And borrow bafe, and fome good ladies ,:;ift6. Spenf.
2. The hire given for any unlawful office.
As for the politick and wholefsme laws, liey
we e Interpreted to be but brocage of an ufurer,
thereby to woo and win the hearts of the pe.jplc.
Bacvru
3.

Stakefpemt.

l^froxa brocade.]

Diefl in brocade.
Woven in the manner of a brocade.
Should you the rich breaded fuit unfold,

Broad-kyed. adj. [fvom broad Mvi eye.]

But, ah! I will not.

f

Pope,

Where riling flow'rs grow ftiff with froftcd gold.

Will ne'er be fmouth, nor hold their ftitches. Sv'ift.

In defpitc of broad-eyed watchful day,
would inro thy bofom pour my thoughts:

Spedattr.

Or ftain her honour, or her new brocade j

Or elfe, be fure, your broad-cloth breeches

Having a wide furvey.

A

[brocado. Span.]

gold or filler.

Shakespeare,

Broad as long. Equal upon the whole.

/

filken fluff, variegated with colours. of

rail againft

•Shahefpeare.

From broad words, and 'caufe he fail'd
His prefence at the tyrant's feaft, I hear,

I

ffifeman.

Bko'aowise. adv. [from broad and ivi/e.]

Who can fpeak broader than he that has no Broca'ded. ac//.

j

Dryden.

An opener, or ntterer of any thing; the
firil

1.

whether they rife to others, or bring others down
to them.
L'Ejirangc.

A fpit.

1.

a rich widow.

Bro'adside. n.f. [from ^reaa' and _/£/<:.]

Bold ; not delicate ; not referved.

for advancing thcmfclvcs : for it is js broad at long,

Bito'AcriEii. n.f, [from broach.']

Dryden.
impudent, black

fellow; and, as I thought, every way qualified for

Becaufe he fcems to chew the cud again.
When his broad comment makes the text too
plain.
Dryden.
6.

HuJibrat.

I am a tall, broadjhenldered,

light i

.

To give out, or utter any thing.

and large of liipbs, with finewt
ftrong;
Broadjhoulder d, and his arms nere round and long.
Big-bon'd,

If one fhould, with his hand, thruft a piece of
iron broadmife againft the flat ceiling of his cham-

As chaftc and modeft as he is efteemed, it cannot be denied, but in fome places be is bread and
fulfome.
Dryden.
Though now arraign'd, he read with fome de-

When Hudibras in haftc approach'd.

and Jhoitlder.] Having a large fpace between the flioulders.

According to the direftion of the breadth.

To open any ftore.

And now the field of death, the lifts.
Were rnter'd by antagonifts.
And blood was ready to be breach' J,

5.

Bro'adshoulderbd. adj. [from broezd

Pofe.

nity.

notably provide, that you fliall want neither weapons, viftuak, nt)r aid } I will open the
old armouries, 1 will broach my ftore, and bring
forth my (lores.
Kntlles.

have ufed the cleaneft metaphor I could find,
Dryden.

Obfcene ; fulfome; tending to obfce-

liquor ; to tap.

To let out any thing.

I

!

He grins, and looks broad nonfenfe with a ftare.

.

Breadth > extent from fide to fide.
Coarfenefs ; fulforaenefs.
to palliate the broadr.ejt of the meaning.

Pope.
three jockeys in his train ;
Six huntfmen with a ftiout precede his chair

Room -for my lord

I will

4.

2.

Lefs plcafmg far tlian virtue's very tears.

HakeviiU.

To pierce a veffel in order to draw the

3.

Drydeit.

The broadejl mirth unfeeling folly wears,

Bringing rebellion broached on his fword. Shake/fi.
He felled men as one would mow hay, and
fbmetim*^ broached a great number of them upon
bis pike, as one would carry little birds fpitted

2.

1.

Clear; open; not (heltered ; not affording concealment.
In mean time be, with cunning to conceal

Grofs ; coarfe.
The reeve and the miller arc diftinguifhed from
each other, as much as the lady priorefs and the

In a

'\

Bro'adkess. n.f. [from broad.]

Locke.

All thought of this from others, himfelf bore
In broadhoufe, with the wooers, us before. Cbapm.
It no longer feeks the Ihelter of night and darknefs, but appears in xhebroeideji light. Decay of PUty.
If children wereleft alone in the dark, they would
be no more afraid than in broad funihine.
Locke.

[from broad,

broad manner.

cunning, which has always a ir-txri/ mixture of falfehood ; this is the fitted preparation of a child for

A irizf, a fcorned little creature,

dle.

Bro'adly. adv.

To keep him «t a diftance from falfehood, and

Through his fair hide his angry Ring did threaten.

».

Juft o'er the verge of day.

Large.

z.

The gadfly.

"

Live walks the fun, and broadeni by degreest
tbomfent'

The top may be juftly £iid to grow broader, as

Granville.

n.

fage.

flicllcr

Are pull'd up, root and all.

paf'. in

tritllef/fi.

[from broad.] To
grow broad. I know not whether this
word occur>, but in the following paf-

To Bro'aden. f.

The weeds that his broad fprcading leaves did

Of airy pomp, and ftccting joys,
Whit does the bufy world conclude at beft,
ButMVf/f g"ods, thatbrcaklikeglaf!?

Having broad leaves.

Narrow and broad-leaved Cyprus grafs.

BROAD, adj. [bpab, Saxon.]

From earth all came, to earth muft all return.
Frail as the cord, and briiiU as the um.
Priw.

.^

lea/.]

The trade of dealing in old things ; the
trade of a broker.
Poor poet ape, that would be th>->u£ht our chief,

Whofc Works arc c'cn the tirippery of wit,
Fi(0i

H

The gains of bargains ars 0^ » more doubtful
when men ihould wiit upon others re-

Frsm irudgi is become fa bold a th'ef.
As we, the robb'd, leave rage, and picy ir. S.JorJ.
4. The tranfaclion of bufinefs for other

men.
So much as the quantity of money
much muft the (hare of TCry one that has a right
is leffened, fo

nature,

ctJlity ;

Pra£lifed

adj.

Content with little, I can piddle here

On irocco/i and mutton round the year;

Bro'ken meat. n.f. Fragments; meat
*

Soi-eaft'ry of Bmillion, at one draught of his

Camdm.

or'.chM three tectlefs bi^ds.

Brock, n.f. [bpoc, Saxon.] A badger.
Br o'c K T «./ A red deer, two years old.

Vour brooches, pearls, and owchts.

conftantly in the kitchen, whqm you pay at ftnall

brooch and the toothpick, which we w-a. r'»t now*

Bro'kenhearted.

adj.

[from

A cant word for a corrupt dialed, or
manner of pronunciation.

Sir Richard Hopkins, hath done

Hakrwill.

[from To broke.]

Thou from the firft

Brokers, who, having no ftock of their own, fct
up and trade with that of other men ; buying
here, and felling there, and "commonly abuting

To fit them to hiff vulgar talle.
2.

One who deals in old houfeliold goods.

3.

A pimp

a quarrel.
Say to the king thy knowledge of the irol/.
As thuu didft leave it.
Siaitj'ftare.
He has fcnt the fword both of civil brtiis, and
public war, amongll uc.
ff^kt.
Rude were their re\eU, and obfcene their joys ;
The irtUi of drunlunls, and the iuii of boys.
Grarpvit/e.

To drefs

or cook by laying on the coals, or before the fire.
Some ftrip the flcin, fomc portion out the fpoll.

Some on the fire the reeking entrails broU, Dryd.

To Broil, 'v. n.

To be in the heat.

Where have you been broiling f

Among tiic crowd i' th' abbey, where a finger
Could not be wedg'd in raore.

Sbakejfure.

Dirt you prefume to harbour wanton lines

tt.

/.

[0ioyv.oxi>.tl.]

To BROKE, 1/. «. [of uncertain etymoSkinner feems inclined to derive
from To break, becaufe broken men
torn faftors or broken.
Cajaubon, from
logy.
it

vfuTltn.

Shinner thinks, again, that it

may be contrafted from procurer.

Mr.

Lye more probably deduces it from
bnuccan. Sax. to be bi /.] To tranf*Si bufinefs for others, or by others.
is

It

He does, indeed,,
And broin with all that can, in' fuch a fuit,
Coriuft tbe teadet boneur of a maid.

ihakeff.

Snsnh.

To matOTc any thing by care.

4.

It

was the opinion of I linias, ao if there were

ever amongft nations i brooding of. a war, and that:
tliere is no fure league but impuiffance to do hurt.

Bacon .

To Brood, v. a. To cheriflv by care.
Of crowds afraid, yet anxious when alone.

Bro'nchial. ladj. [^fryx©-.] Belonging
B ro'n c h 1 c k. J to the throat.

You'll fit and b:o<id your forrows on a throne.

Inflammation of the lungs may happen either
in thcbronebial or pulmonary vcffels, and may foon
be communicated from one to the other, when the
inflammation affects both the lobes,
jlrbutbnot.

Drjdei:^

Brood, n.f [from the verb.]
progeny. It is now hardly
1. Offspring
ufei of human beings, but in contempt.
;

The heavenly father keep his bra:d
From foul infection of fo great a vice. Fairfax.
With terrours and with clamours compafs'J
round,

pipe by incifion, to prevent fufFocation

m a quinfey.

Of mine own brood, that on my bowels feed. Milt.

^incy.

Or any other of that heavenly brood,

The operation of bnnebotomy is an incifion into
the afpera arteria, to make way for thl^ir into
the lungs, when refpiration is obftrudted by any
tumour comprcfling the larynx. Sharp's Surgery.

Brond. h./.

See Brand.

.A

Let down in cloudy tlirone to do the world ftimc
good.
Ajt'.ton.
/^Tuin difcourfes of ftorkj, and their affection
toward their brood, whom they in(liu£t to fly.
Broione's Vulgar Errsurs.

fword.

Foolifh old man, laid then the p.ig.m wroth.
That weencft words or charms may force with-

Thing bred ; fpeci°3 generated.

2.

Have you forgotten I.ybia's burning wafles,
Its

ftond ;

S»n (halt thou fee, and then believe for troth,
That I can carve with this enchanted brond.

ufed generally in reproach.

Brood o'er their precious {lores of fecrct gold.

A

That operation which opens the wind-

Cheyne.

Drydcrt,

tumour of that part of the afpera arteria,
^incy,
called the bronchui.

been broiling in the fun, had tile world lifted from
curnity.

Sit brwdiug on unprofitable gold.
As rejoicing mifcrs

ment ;

B RON c o'to M Y.n.f. \_3^!iyK&- and tifiLiiu.]

all

Defraud their clients, and, to lucre fold.

In chufing for yourfelf, you fhew'd your judg-

cage.
Bro'nCHOCELE.

Miltm,
And the night raven fiugs.
To remain long in anxiety, orfolicitous

thought.

j

the planets and comets had

Long ere now all

Where brooding darknefs fpreads his jealous wings.

To whifper and confpire againll my youth ? Sbak.
Which being fhaltow, you fhall give me leave
To play the broker in mine own behalf. Sbakefp,
Bro'kerace. n.f. [from broker.] The
pay or reward of a broker. Sec Bro-

Drydcn.

Find out fome uncouth cell.

3.

'

Tlckell,

They breed, they brood, inftruft, and educate

a match-maker.

A goodly broker f

A tumult;

Exalted hence, and drunk with fecrct joy.
Their young fucceflion all their cares employ ;

S^vift.

The golden broidery tender Milkah wove,
The bread to Kenna f.icred, and to love.

;

To cover chickens under tlie wing.

And make provifion for the future (late.

ments wrought upon cloth.

[bruler, Fr.]

2.

Lay all my fine plantations wafte.

additional orna-

[irouilUr.FT.]

Dove-like fat'ft -Woodiiig on the vafl abyfs.
And mad'ft it pregnant.
Milton.
Here nature ipreads her fruitful fweetnefs round.
Breathes on the air, and broods upon the ground.
Dryden.

both fides, to make out a little paultry gain. Temple.
Some South-fea broker, from the city.
Will purchafe me, the more 's the pity ;

Bro'idbky. ti.f. [fromiroider.'] Embroi-

SBakefpearei,

Waft prefcnt, and, with mighty wings outfpread.

another.

Infant Albion lay
In niantlei troiJtr'J o'er with gorgeous pride.

Lie rent and mangled.

Be broocb'd with me.

To BROOD, -v. n. [bp^an. Sax.]
1
To fit as on eggs ; to hatch them.

another ; one that makes bargains for

To

A robe, and a brsidertd coat, and a girdle.

flower-work ;

Not th' imperious fhow

A faiSor; one that does bufinefs for

Tt2r^ubar.

[iroJir,¥r.]
adorn with figures of needle-work.

n.f.

To

adorn with jewels.

fomewhat of

chiefiy a difcourfe of his own voyage.

Bro'ker.

Diiif,

Of the full-fortun'd Ctefar, ever fhall

this kind, but brokenly and glancingly ; intending

1.

fVBRO'lDER. -v. a.

To BROIL, v. a.

colour.

To Brooch, "w. a. [from the noun.}

any regular feries.

Anfwer'd my fteps too loud.
Sbahffaire.
Sometimes it is given out, that we muft cither
Stvtft.
take thefe halfpence, or eat our brogue:.

Shak Iprare,

[With painters.] A painting all of one

Bro'kenly. <7i/7y. [from broken.'] Without

nefj

he is the brooch, indeed.

And gem of all the nation.
2.

Ifaiab.

thought he flept; and put
My clouted bnguti tjrom off my feet, whofe rude-

BROIL, n.f.

Skakfjpeare.
I know him well ;

broken

and heart.'] Having the fpirits cruflied
by grief or fear.
He hath fcnt me to bind up the brokenhearlid.

.

1

Shakeffsare^

Richly fuited, but unfejfonabtc \ juft like the

Sv^ift.

A kindof flioe.

dery ;

Ay, marry, uur chains and our jewels..^

that has been cut.
Get tiirec or four chairwomen to attend you

and all the cinders.

Brogue, n.f. [^rof, Irilh.]

Hi^ hrigtjE wi;i deteil mine.

Prior*

BROOCH, n.f [broke, Dutch.
an ornament of jewels.
1. A jewel

charges j only with the broktn meat, a few coals,

bow, Ihooting againft David'* tower in Jerufalem,

2.

A piint, a hrcftxei a flower, a root,
A iheii, a buiteifiy can d,. 't.
;

But ancient friends, tho' poor or out of pay.
Peft.
That touch my bell, I cannot turn away.

ii

How little gives ihte joy and pain ;

Sbakefpeari;.

Afpeciesof Bro'ken.

See 7« Broach.

Henley

Relief, or ftatue, call in brafs.
I. V ew with angpr and djfdain,

z.

[particip. pajf. of break. '\
Preferve men's wits from being broken with the
Hooker.
very i)cnt of io long attention

y^BRocHE.

lo !

Tunin;^ his voice, and ba'ancing his hands* Fo^e-*

Redeem from broking pawn the blemilh'd crown,
Wipe off the dull that hides our fceptre's gilt.

cabbage.

1.

by

brokers.

to this money be the lefrj whether he be landholder, for his g> jds i or labourer, for his hire j or merL'jckc.
chant, fnr his hnciige.

BRO'CCOLI. n.f. [Italian.]

Brafs.
Imbrown'd with native bnnxe,

I.

Baccn.

particip,

;

ffRONlTE. jr./ l^honxi* Fr.J

broke by lervants and inftruments to drav.

them on.

Bro'kinc.

J

B R a

B R O

B R O

.

.

.

,

Spenfer.

Bronto'locy. n.f. [^(itrri and ?,(,yla.]

A diHertation upon thunder,

DiS.

barren ruclc3,parcli'd earth, and liills of land,

lt» tainted air, and all its broods of poifon ?

3.

Addlf,

A hatch; the number hatched at once.

I was wonderfully pleafed to fee the different
woikings of iuftinftia a- hen followed by a brood
Sprfialor.
of dlH.'Ju»-

4.

Something

;

;

;

B R O

B R O

From the age

The aft of covering the eggs.

Sumeching 's in nis foul,
O'er vhich his melancholy fits on bri>id\
And I d&ubt the hutch and the difclofe
Will be fome dinger.
Shakrjfcari.

we call clocking,

Prior,

that not above half the poet appeared ; at other
times, he became as confpicuous as any of the

Sir Roger pointed atfomeching behind the door,
SpeBator.
which I found to be an old bro'anfiaff.
Bro'omstick. n.f. The fame as broom-

Bro'therly. aelj. [from brother."] Na-

And round the

parlour li:vc to ride.

[from

aifj,

If land grow moiTy or bnomyf then break it up

Mortimer.

again.

The youth with broomy flumps began to trace
The kennel edge, where wheels had worn the

A fubllitutc Uiines brightly as a king,

placer

Broth,

JUiltm.

Stvifi.

Southernt.
If a nurfe, after being fucked dry, eats brinh,
unaltered.
the infant will fuck the brotb, almoft
Arbuihnot.

Vryder.,

Springe make little rivulets; thofe united, make

brcoh ; and thofe coming together, make rivers,
which empty themfclvcs into the fea.
Loch.

Bro'thel.
l"/ \bordel, Fr.] A
fe BROOK, a-, a. [briucan,Sax.]Tobearj Bro'thelhouse. I houfe of lewd entertainment ; a bawdyhoufe.

to endure ; to fupport.
Even they, which brook it worft that men fliould
tell them of their duties, when they are told the
iame by a law, think very well and reafonably of

Shakejp.
!

To Brook, v. n. To endure;

1.

To BROW. V, a, [from the noun.] To
bound ; to limit ; to be at the edge of.
Tending my flocks hard by, i' th' hilly crofrj
That i/nu this bottom glade.
beat.]

He alfo that is flothful in his work, is brother
to him that is a great waller.
I will

eat

no meat while the world ftandeth,

It is not for a magiftrate to frown upon, and
browbeat, thofe who are hearty and cxaiS in their
miniftry ; and, with a grave nod, to call a rofolved zeal want of prudence.
South,
What man will voluntarily expofe himfclf tothc
imperious bmvbeaiings and fcoros of great men }

for man in general.

am fent with broom before,

To fwccp the dull behind the door.

Sbak.
If they came into the bell apartment, to fet any
thing in order, they were falutcd with a br^om.
y4rbutbnct-

Bro'omlakd.
a [broom and
Land that bears broom.
tt.

B R o't H E R H 00 D
I .

Moriiri'r,

the handle of a befom.
They fell on; 1 made good my place: at length
they cams Co the brtcmflaffm^ «e I defied 'em
;

SbakrJl'cart.

L'EJIrangi,

The flate or quality of being a brother.
This deep Jifi;!ai:e of bruterbcod
Touchi-s me deeper than you can imagine. Shak.
fmii brother!, ood in thee no Iharper Ipur ? Shak.
So it bo a right to govern, whether you call it
fupreme fathcihnod, or fupreme bretkerhxd, will
Locke.
be al! one, provided we know who has it.

lanJ.]

Bro'omstafp. n.f. [from broom andy?a^;]
The ftaiF to which the broom is bound

n.f, [from brother and

hood.]

I hjve kinwn fliiMip cured of the rot, when they
have not been tar gone with it, by being put intJ

broomlands.

.

To deprefs with fevere brows,

and ftern or loi'ty looks.

Proverbs.

Corinthians.
make my brother to offend.
4. Brother is ufed, in theological language,

Shall difturb this hallow'd houfe (

Milton,

To Bro'wbeat. v. a. [from broiv and

left I

Nut a moufe

*JU.

ShaktJ'peare.

Any one refembling another in manner,

Dryden.

I

Milton,
\

form, or profeffion.

matter of

which it is fometimcs made.

Sbakefp.

Locke.

Shall be my brother,

And flude for iheep, and food for Aocks, produce.
fo called from the

The earl, nothing difmayed, came forwards that
day unto a little village, called Stoke, and tliere
encamped that night, upon the brovi or hanging
of a hill.
Bacon,
On the brcfw of the hill, beyond that city, they
were fomewhat perplexed by efpying the French
emhalTador, with the king's coach, and others attending him.
fVotioo,
Them with fire, and hoftile arms,
Fearlefs alTauIti an^ to the brotc of heav'n
Purfuing, drive them out fram God and blifs.

For he to-day that fheds his blood with me.
3.

Shakejpeartm

The edge of any high place.

Be fad, good brothers

Any one clofely united ; affociate.
We few, we happy few, we band o( brothers

.

:

grace.

Yet grac^ mull look Hill fo.
4.

brother,.

BROOM, n.f. lgenij}a; bfiom, Saxon.]
A fmall tree.
I

Whole (hady bro^cs alive they drell.
ffaller,
The general air of the countenance.
Then call them to our prefcnce, face to face.

And frowning brovi to bro^v.
Sbah-fpeare*
Though all things foul would bear the bro^os of

Whilft kin their kin, brother the brother foils,
Like ehiigns all againd like enfigns bend. Daniel.
Thefe two are brethren, Adam, and to come
Out of thy loins.
Milton.
Comparing two men, in reference to one common parent, it is very eafy to form the ideas of

ditches.

A befom

3.

One born of the fame father and mother.
That I will deeply put the falhion on.

2.

z.

Dryden,

The forehead.
She could have run, and waddled about
For even the day before Ihe broke her brow, Shak,
So we (omr antique hero's ftrength
Learn by his launcc's weight and length ;
As tlicle vaft beams cxprefs the bcatl.

Sorrow fo royalty in you appears.

He, in thefe wars, had flatly refufed his aid ;
becaufc he could not brook that the worthy prince
Plangus was, by his cboien Tiridaces, preferred
before hitn.
Sidney-

The arch of hair over the eye.
'Tis now the hour which all t.t rcil allow.

BROTHER, n.f. [broken, bno«op. Sax]
Plural, brothers, or brethren,

Locke,

And fleep fits heavy upon every brotv,

Rogers.

thel,

tent.

Ev'ii humble broom and oCers have their ufe.

1

Scenes of lewd loves and of polluted joys. Drydejt.
The libertine retires to the ftews and to the bro-

to be con-

Bro'oklime. n.f.^ [hecabuttga, Lat.] A
Tort of water fpeedwell, very common in

fler^der proofs.

BROW. n.f. [bpopa, Saxon.]

Shaktfftare.

From its old ruins brothelhoujes rife.

This ihadowy defart, unfrequented woods,

Shakf/peare.

The Turks forfofik the walls, and could not
be brought again to the afiault.
KnoUet*
The inftances brought by our author are but

2.

Then courts of kings were held in high renown.
Ere made the common brctieli of the town 1
There virgins honourable vows recciv'd,'
But challe as maids in moiialVerics liv'd. Dryden.

Hooker.

A thoufand more mifchances than this one

I better ^m^ than flourilhing peopled towns. Sbak,
Heav'n, the feat of blifs.
Brooks not the works of violence and war. Miltor:.
Molt men can much rather brook their being
reputed knaves, than for their honefty be accountSouth.
ed fools.
Reftraint thou wilt not brook ; but think it hard.
Your prudence is not trufted as your guard. Dryd.

weep.

Brought, [participle paj/i-ve of bring,]

Perchance
I faw him enter fuch a houfe of fale,
Videlicet, a brothel.

Addifcn,

After the raaf.ner of
a brother; with kindnefs and affedion.
1 fpeak but brotherly of him ; but (hould I anatomize lum to thee as he is, I mull blulh an4

n. /.

the one half every day.
Bacon.
InlVead of light defcrts and lufcious froth.
Our author treats to-night with Spartan brotb.

And to Ccpliifus' brook their way purfue
The ilrcam was troubled, but the tord they knnv.

Have learned me to brook this patiently.
How ufc doth breed a habit in a man

another in brotherly piety a id concord.

Bro'therly. ad'v.

[bporS, Sax.]
Liquor in
which flefh is boiled.
"i'oii may make the bnth for two days, and take

Or many grateful altars I would rear

it.

of our fouls and bodies.
Bacon,
Though more our money than our caufc
Their brotherly afiillancc draws.
Denbam,
They would not go before the laws, but fallow
them ; obeying their fuperiours, and embracing or.e

Full of

breom.'\

broom.

running water, lefs than a river.

Of pially turf; and pile up every ftone
Of luflre from the brock j in memory,
Of aionament to ages.

fuch as becomes or befeems a
brother.
He was a pried, and looked for a priell's re»
ward J which was our brotherly love, and the good

Man

Broomy.

jiddifon,

tural ;

When I beheld this, I Cghcd, and faid within
is a Broommyfeif, Scrilv mobtai.
s ricic!
Siuift'i Mrditamr.s on a Broomftkk.

A

Until a king he by ; and then his (late
Empties itfelf, as doth an inland brook
into the main of waters.
Shake/fttre,

brotherhood,

llafF.

Ray.

3aooK. n./. [bnoc, or bpoca. Sax.]

A daft of men of the fame kind.
He was fometimes fo engaged among tlie wheels

Brtcmjlflff at poker they beitride,

Buo'cDy. ajj. [from ItrooJ.] In aftateof
fitting on the eggs ; inclined to fit.
The common hen, ail tl<e while fite is broody,
iiti, and leads her cliickens, and ufe;* Toice which

3,

That children tread this worldly ftige,

SbaktJlieare.

S,

;

B R O

4. Something brought forth i aproduAioD.
Such things'become the hatch and brad of time
5.

.

;

Count Tariff" endeavoured to bnwbcat the plaintlff, while he was fpeaking ; but though he was
not fo impudent as the count, he was every whit
ai llurdy.
Mdifon,
I will not he browbeaten by

of my adverfaries.

Arhuthn:i and Pope.

Bro'wboun D.adj. [irom broixi z.vii\ bound.]

An affociation of men for any purpofe
a fraternity.
There w^s a fraternity of men at arms,

the fupcrcilicus looks

Crowned ; having the head encircled as
with a diadem.

called

In that day's feats.

He prov'd the beft man

the brotherhood of St. George, erciled by parliament, confilling of thirteea Uie fao& noble an!
worthy perf»n>.
Duviis.

i'

th' Jield j

meed.
Was bmv-bouitd with Che oak,
'

and, for liil
Shatejpeare.

Bro'wsjck.

.

;

:

B R U

B R U

Bro'wsick. adj. [from hniu and Jtck-I

And fix far deeper in his head their ftings,
Than temporal death fliall bru'ife the viftor's heel.
Or theirs whom he redeems.
Mihon.

Dejefted ; Hanging the head.
But yet a gracious influence from you

May alter nature in our hrawfick crew.

And ftars with rocks together crafli'd and bru'n'd.

Till they turn livid, and corrupt the fnow.

Bruise, n.f. [from

the verb.]
with fomething blunt and heavy.

This fit lor bruij'ey and that for blood.

And tempt not yet the brufljcs oi the war.

To bind the bruifet of a civil war.
And (I'op the iflues of their wafting blood. Dryd.
Bru'isewort. n.f. An herb; the lame
with COMFREY.
BRUIT, n. /. [iruii, Fr.]

Rumour;

noife ; report.
A bruit ran from one to the other, that the king

covered ; but we now fay brovin mujket

was'dain.

And hr'.'mr.b'dii, levied in the city,
adj.

A hr'jian\pi grey iron-ftone, lying in thin ftrata,
is

Wvjdiuard.

poor, but runs freely.

Bro'wnness. n.f. [from irowrt.l Abrown

Hayward.
I

The wrathful bead about him turned light.
And him (0 rudely palling by, did brujh
With his long tail, that horie and man to ground

Bru'mal. adj.

It almoft brujh'd the helm.

3.

neighbours.

-Abo'.it the brumaJ folftice, it hath been obferved, even unto a proverb, that the Tea is talm, and

mjlcir.g common places.

ed, and forfake their nefts.

BROWSE. 1/. a. [brou/er, Fr.]
eat branches, or flirubs.
And being down, is trod in the durt

To

Of cattle, ai.d hrimjtd, and forely hurt.

Brune'tt. «./. [^/•an«/«', French.]
woman with a brown complexion.

the particle on.

They have feared away two of my bed fliecp ;
any where 1 have them, 'tis by the fea-fide,
Shakcjfiari.
hrnufing en ivy.
A goat, hard preHed, took fan£luary in a vine.
thought
foon
as
he
danger
the
over, he
7»rJ \ fo

fruit

if

fell prefently a irvwfitig

b^» the It »ve«. L'EJirange.

1.

On that cloud-piercing hill,
Plinlimmon, from afar, the traveller kens,
Aftoniih'd, how the goats their ihrubby brcivfe
Gnaw pendent.
Phi/it i.

To BRUISE. 'V. a. \_brifer, Fr.] To crulh
or mangle with the heavy blow of fom«thing not edged or pointed ; to erufn
by any weight ; to beat into grofs powder ; to beat together coarfeiy.
Fellows in arms, and my moft loving friends,

BiuU'd ucderneath the yoke of tyranny.

Shaliff.

\hrunf},

Dutch,]

Shock ; violence.

To move as the brufh.
A thoufand nights have brujh'd their balmy
wii;gs

Over thefe eyes.

Dryden.

To BsusH. f. n.
1. To move with hade
applied to men.

:

a ludicrous word,

Nor wept his fate, nor call a pitying eye.

Nor took him down, but bruJh d regardlcfs by.

Cod, who caus'd a fountain, at thy pniy'r,
From the dryiground to fpring, thy thiift t' allny

The French had g.ither'd all their force,
And William met thi?m in their way

After the brunt of battle.

Vet off" they brujh'd, both foot and horfe.

hritnt :

a

j

common foldier may fly, when it is the
'

the place.

Dryden,

Milton.

and endure the

du'y of hioi that holds the iiandard to die upon
2.

receptacle

Erona chofe rather to bide the brunt of war,
than venture him.
Sidney.

F.iithful minillers are to ftand

Browse, n.f. [from the verb.] Branches,
The greedy lionefs the wolf purfucs,

5.

A fort of
Trevoux.

Blackmcrc,
The Greeks were the defcendants oi favagcs,
Ignorant c^i agricvlcare, and hrtwjing on hrrbigT,
like catt.e.
Arbuibnoi.

Thewulfthekid, the wanton kid ihe^r:^u>/r. Dryd.

[Irugnen, Fr.]

between a plum and a peach.

Bru'nt. n.f.

Could eat the lerider platit^ and, by degrees,
£ri/wjt on the fhrubi, and crop the budding trees.

or (hrubs, fit for the food of goats, or
other animals.

Mi/ton,

Mdifon.

Bru'nion. n, f.

South.

Blow ; ftroke.
A wicked ambulh, which lay hidden long
In the dofe covert of her guileful eyen.

2.

To fly over

But oft to virtuous :ifls inflames the mind.

Awakes the (leepy vigour of the foul.
And, brujiing o'er, adds motion to the pool. Dryd.

Bru'sher. «./. [horn brujk.]
ufcs a brufii.

Too feeble i t' abide the brunt fo ftrong. Spcnjcr.
The friendly rug prefcrv'd the ground,
And h' i.iiong knight, from bruife or wound.

like brujhers of noblemen's cloatlis.

Like featherbed betwixt a wall.

And heavy brunt of csnnon-ball.
•

\_broJe,

lludibras.

Fr. from bt^ifcus,

Lat.]
I. An inftrument to clean any thing, by
rubbing off the dirt or foil. It is generally made of brillles fet in wood.

Prior-,

to (kim lightly.
Nor love is always of a vicious kmd.
;

Thence breaking forth, did thickabouc me throng.

BRUSH. «. /

*

of waters, into which the
mouths of all rivers muft empty themfelves, ought
to have fo fpacious a furface, that as much water
may be continually brujhed oft" by the winds, and
exhaled by the fun, as, ^efides what falls again, i»
brought into it by all the rivers.
Bentley.

The

A

Vour fair women therefore thought of this
falhion, to inl'ult the olives and the brunettes.

Sbaitjftori.

ToBrowse. "v.n. To feed: itiaufedwith

To carry away, by an aft like that of
brulhing ; to fweep.
And from the boughs bruJh off the evil dew,
And heal ihe harms of thwarting thunder blew.

Brmvn,

are all derived from the Saxon, bopn,
boupn, bpunna, bupna ; all fignifying a
river or brook.
Gihj'on.

Spenfjr.

Thy palate then did deign

The baiks of trees thou braufcdji.

4.

the winds do ceafc, till the young ones are exclud-

To Brun,Bran, Brown, Bourn, Burn,

The roughed berry on the rudeA hedge
Vea, like the (lag, when fnow the pafture fheets,

P'fe,

To paint with a brufh.
You have commiflioncd me to paint your Ihop,
and I have done my beft to bruJh you up like your
Pope.

[brumalii, Lat.] Belong-

They li\ e retired, and then they do«e awajr their
time in drowfinefs and ^r«wr/?a(//«; or, if biilk
and a^ive, they Iny themfelves out wholly in
Norri:.

Dryden,

High o'er the billows flew the mafly load,
And near the fliip came thund'ring on the Hood,

ing to the winter.

tain point.

Spenfer's Fairy Siueen,

did rulh.

Has Somnus brujh'd thy eyelids with his rod ?
Dry den.
His fon Cupavo brujh'd the briny flood.

Upon his ftern a brawny centaur ftood.

Shahfpeare.
It was hmitej, that I meant nothing lef than to
go to Guiana.
Rei/tigb.

;

To ftrike with quicknefs, as in bruftiing.

His death.
Being bruited once, took fire and heat away
Fiom the beft temper'd courage in his troops.

Sidrey.

Vol. I.

2.

am not

much in ufe.

Bro'wnstudy. n.f. [from brown and
ftudy in
Jfudy.l Gloomy meditations
which we direct our thoughts to no cer-

:

One that rej-iices in the cODimon wreck.
As common bruir doth put ic,
Shiikff^eare.'
To Bruit, -v. a. [from the noun.] To
report ; to noife abroad ; to rumour.
Neither the verb nor the noun are now

colour.
She would confefs the contention in her own
mind, between that lovely, indeed moft lovely,
brc-wr.ntfs of MuAdorus*s face, and this colour of
mine.

If he be not in love with fome woman, there is'
no believing old figns he brujhes his hat 0' morning ; what (hould that bode ?
Shaiejpeare.

Sidney.

main his friend.

[from hrown.^ Some-

To Brush. 1/. a. [from the noun.]
1. To fweep or rub with a brufli.

Upon fome bruits he apprehended a fear, which
moved him to fend Co Sir William Herbert to re-

M.ide bills to pafi the grand committee. Uud'ibrai.

what brown.

a fhock ; rough treatment ; wliich, by the fame metaphor,
we call Ajcouring.
;

Lee grow thy finews till their knots be ftrong,
Shai.
It could not be poflible, that, upon fo little a
brup as Waller had fuftained, he could not be able
to follow and difturb the king.
Clarendin,
Elle, when we put it to the puHi,
They hai not giv'n us fuch a biujh.
Hudibras.

Hudibres.

The ancient weapon of the Englifli foot
why it is called brotvn, I have not'dif-

Bro'wnish.

A rude aflault

3.

1 iince h.ive laboured

from it.

M^xon,

upon the joint of each piece.

Dryd.

A hurt

One ann'd with metal, th* other svith wood,

like the new tire within excellently, if the hair

Bro'wnbill. n.f. [from ^r»w« and ^7/.]

With a fmall hrujh you muft fmear the glu- well

They beatthcirbreaftswith manya^rar^n^biow,

;

1

StiUingJteet,

lyallir.

of a colour, compounded of black and
any other colour.

Sbahjpeare.
were a little irvwner.
From whence high Ithaca o'erlooks the floods,
Bnwn with o'ercharging Ihades and penaent
Pofe.
woods.
Long untravcUM heaths,
wafle.
Tlomfcn.
Withdefolation^rswn, he wanders

for the larger and ftronger
pencils ufed by painters.
Whence comes all this rage of wit ? this arming
all the pencils and brujhes of the town againft me f

2. It is ufed

As in old chaos heav'n with earth confus'd.

Stieklirg.

BROWN, adj. [bpun, Saxon.] The name
Brown, in high Durch, is called iraiin ; in the
Netherlands, irajan 5 intrench, cohur brum in
Peacham.
Italian, hrurio,

B R U

He that

Sir Henry Wotton ufed to fay, thatcriticks were

Bacon.

Br,u'shwood. »./ [from ^ra/f?" and wW.
I know not whether it may not be corrupted from bro^fe ivood.] Rough, low,
clofe, (hrubby thickets ; fraall wood fit

for fire.
It fmokes, and then with trembling breath fli«
blows,
Till in a cheerful bUze the flames arofc.
Witfc

Hh

;

,

.

B R U

BUB

With bnifimiKi, and with ch'pi, /Se ftrengthcns

7b Brute. <i>. a. [written ill {<n iruit."]

thefe,

:

B U C

And adds tx lad the boughs of rotten trees. Drydtn.
aJj. [from brujh.'\ Rough or

fliaggy, like a brulh.
I fufpeOed, that it might have proceeded from
fome fmall unhi:eded drop of blood, wiped off by
the brupj fubftance of the nerve, from the knife
wherewith it was cut.
Bcylc.

hcavincfs.

Suuth.fea at beft a mighty bubble.

Knollei.

Bru'teness. n. /. [from brute,] Brutality; a word n6t now ufed.

Ceafc, dearell mother, ceafe to chide ;

Gany '5 a cheat, and I'm a bubble;
Yet why this great excefs of trouble ?
PW:r.
He has been my bubble thefe twenty years, and,

That with thy brutenefi Jhcnd'il tliy comely age.
Sj?erffr.

TVBru'stle. •v.n. [bpaj-tban. Sax.] To To Bru'tifv.
To
-v. a. [from hrutt.]
crackle ; to make a fmall noife. Skinner.
make a man a brute.
Bru'tal. adj. \brutal, French ; from
thou fallacious woman am I then brutifiedf
!

Ay J 1 feel ic here ; I fprout, I bud, 1 am ripe

That which belongs to a brute ; that
which wc have in common with brutes.
There is no oppoHng brutal force to the
tagents of human reafon.

horn mad.

Is

(Ira-

Beftial ;

1.

L^EJlrange.

1/.

».

Brutes, and htuiifh men, arc
able to bear pain than others.

by much ado he ftaggcrs to his table again,
and there afls over the fame Irutijb fcene. Seutb,

Ignorant ; untaught ; uncivilized.
They were not fo brurijh, that they could be
Ihiker.
ignorant to call upon the name of God.
Br w'nsHLY. adv. [from brutijh.'] In the
manner of a brute ; favagely ; irration4..

or favage.

Bru'tally. atlv. [from brutal.l Churinhumanly ; cruelly.
Mrs. Bull aimed a knife at John, though John
threw a bottle at hejr head, very brutally indeed.
lithly ;

ally ; grofsly.
1 am not fo diffident of myfelf, as brutijhty to
King Charles.
fubmit to any man's dilates.
For a man to found a confident praftice upon a
difputable principle, is brutijhiy to outrun his rej-

Arhuthrtot.

BRUTE. aJj. [brutus, Latin.]
Senfelefs ; unoonfcious.
Nor yet arc we fa low and bafe as their athcifm
would deprefi us j not wjlking ftatues of clay, not
the fons of brute earth, whofc final inheritance is
B^niley.
death and corruption.
2. Savage ; irrational ; ferine.
Even brut! animals make ufe of this artificial
way, of making divers motions to have feveral fignifications, to call, warn, chide, cheriih, threaten.
1.

tality ; favagenefs.
All other courage, bcfiaes that,

is

not true va-

lour, but brutijht.fji.

Are half fo charming as thy fight to me.

To Bu'bble. v.

i^prr.tt.

a.

word.
He tells me, with great paflion, that (he has
bubbled him out cf his youth ; and has drilled him
on to five and fifty.
Addif^n.
Charles Mather could not bubble a young beau
better wi:h a toy.

Arbuthr.ot,

Bu'bbler. n.y. [from bubble.] A cheat.
What words can fuffice to expicl's, how infinitely I edecm you, above all the great ones in thia

part of the world ; above all the Jew:^, j ibbers, and
b^igby to PeJ>t.
bubblers I
,

A woman's breaft.

Bu'bby. ». /.
Foh

fay they, to fee a handfome, brilk, genteel,

young fellow, fo much governed by n .iuJt'n^ old

BuB. n. /. [a cant word.] Strong malt

woman j why don't you go and fuck the tyubtjy f

[brjonia, hziim,]

!

jitbuthnot,

Or if it be his fate to meet
With folks who have more wealth than wit.

He loves cheap port, and double Bubf
And fettles in the humdrum dab.

Bu'bo. n.f. [Lat. from /3aC», the groin.}
That part of the groin from the bending of the thigh to the fcrotum ; and

Prkr.

therefore all tumours in that part are
i^incy.
I fuppurated it after the manner of a bubo,

BU'BBLE. fi. /. [bobbd, Dutch.]

ferocious ; uncivilized.

1

The brute philofophcr, who ne'er has prov'd
Fcpe.
The joy of loving, or of being lov'd.
BauTE. It. /. [from the adjeftive.] An

called buboes.

A fmall bladder of water ; a jilm of
water filled with wind.
Bubbles arc i:i the form of a hemifphere ; air
within, and a little /kin of water without and it
fcemeth fomcwhat ftrange, that the air Ihould rife
fo fwiftly, while it is in the water, and when it
Cometh to the top, /houid be ftaycd by fo weak a
Bacon.
cover as that of the bubble is.

opened it, and endeavoured deteilion.

Bubonoce'le.

irrational creature ; a creature without

reafon ; a favage.
What may this mean ? Language of man pronounc'd

The colours of bubbles, with which children

By tongue of brutt, and human fenfe cxprefs'dl

play, are various,

Milicn.

and change their fituation vari-

oully, without any tefpeft to confine or fltadow.

To thofe three prefent imrulfes, of fenfe, me-

JVrti-ron.

2.

Brutet may be confidered as either aerial, terrefaquatick, or amphibious. I call thofe aerial
which have wing^, wherewith they can fupport
trial,

Any

thing which wants folidity and
firmnefs ; any thing that is riiore fpecious than real.

The earl of Lincoln wr,s induced to pa'ticipate,
'

not lightly upon the ftrength of the proceedings
tliere, which was but a bubble, but upon letteis
Bacon.
from the lady Margaret.

fFiJttnan,

from

Sieviv,

A

tincs break down into the g;oin.

When the inteftinc, or omentm.

,

^incy.

Mils through

the rings of the abdominal mufclcs m;o tlie groin,
it is called hernia inguinaiis, crif into the fcrotum,
Jcrotalis : thefe two, tiiough the firil only is propcrly fo called, are known by the name of bubonocele.

Sharp,

Bu'bukle.

11.

/.

A red pimple.

His face is all bubukles, and whelks, and knobs,
and flames of fire.

Bucani'ers. n.f.

Shtikefbetire.

A cant word for the

privateers, or pirates of America.

Buccei-la'tion. «../". [I>uccella,z mouth-

Then a foldier.
Seeking the bulble reputation,
Even in the cannon's mOuth.
Shaiefpeare.
Vfis, he fung, is toil and trouble.
Honour but an empty bubble,
Dryden.
Fighting Aill, and ItiU deftroyiog.

«. /. [Lat.

parthe groin, and xii\r,, a rupture.]
ticular kind of rupture, when the intisf-

:

mory, and inrtinfl, moft, if not all, the fagacitics
Hale.
of brutei may be reduced.

Pcpe.

To cheat: a cant

liquor.

Beftial ; in common with beaAs.
Then tofubdue, and quell, throusli all the earth,
Brute violence, and proud tyrannic p:jwV. Miltott.

From brutei what men, from men what fpirits
know;
feft.
Or who could fuffer being here below ?

Drydeitt

A plant.

Br y'ony. K.yl

In the-promulgation of the Mofaick law, if f
much as a brute beaft touched the mountain, it
Sautb.
was to be ilruck through with a dart.

All but the page prefcrib'd, this prtfent ftate j

For thee the biibbling fprings appcar'd to mourn.

Not bubbling fountains to the thirfty-fwain.
Not (how'rs to larks, or funfliine to thcfbee.

South.

fon.

Bru'tishness. 7!./. [from ira/z/Z'.] Bru-

Uilder.

Luke.
Heav'n from all creatures hides the book of fate.

.

And whifpering pines made vows for thy return.

felf,

Milijon.

themfclves in the »ir : terrcOrial arc thofi-, whofc
only place of rcit is upon ih: earth ; aquacick are
thofe, whofc conftant abode is upon the water.

To run with a gentle noife.

2.

Sbakejfeare.
After he has flept himfelf into fomc ufe of liim-

To Bru talize. 'V. a. To make brutal

;

H^Ktdvard.

heat.

For thou thyfelf haft been a libertine.

As fcnfual as the briiiijh fting itfelf.

he mixed, in a kind of tranfport, with his countrymen, brutalized with them in their habit and
manners, and would ncTcr again retura to his fo-

Rough

manifefl rvmiffion of its heat ; at others, as manifsft an increafe of it; yea, f'>metimci to that
excefs, as to make it boil and bubble with extreme

commonly more
Crew.

Grofs ; carnal.

3.

Upon being carried to the Cape of Good Hope,

4.

Drydett,

The fame fpring fufters at fome times a very

favage ; ferocious.

To grow brutal or favage.

3.

relembling a bealL

Miltin.

[hrutalifer, Fr.]

reign acquaintance.

Alas ! a crimfon river of warm blood,
Like to a bubbling fountain ftiir'd with wind.
Doth rife and fall.
ShaitJ/Kijre.
Adder's fork, and blindworm's Hing,
Lizard's leg, and owlet's wing
For a charm of pow'rful trouble.
Like a hellbroth boil and bubble.
Shak.-ffetre.
Still bubble on, and pour forth blood and tears.

Having the qualities of a brute ; rough

2.

Lode.

efcapes not the opinion, of brutality.

To rife in bubbles.

1.

Fanatick Egypt, and her priefts, to feck
Their wand'ring gods difguis'd in brutijh forms.

[irutalite. Ft.] Savagenefs ; churlilhnefs ; inhumanity.
Courage, in an ill-bred man, has tlie air, and

Bru'talize.

jirhuthnu.

With monftrous fliapes and forceries abus'd

manag'd by thy dreadful fcrvants care. DryJin.

my certain knowledge, underftands no more of

To Bu'bble. v. n. [from the noun.]

Oliris, Ifis, Orus, and their train.

BRu'TALitY. n. f.

7'e

to

bis own affairs, than a child in fwaddling clothes.

Bru'tish. adj. [from brute.]

Savage ; cruel ; inhuman.
The brutal bus'nefs of the war

2.

Cbngreve.

Swift,

The perfon cheated.

4.

Thou dotard vile.

brute.'\

fhow.

Dire<Jors proinifes but wind,

This, once hrated through the army, filled tbem
all W'ith

;

The nation then too late will find,

To report.

Bru'shy.

1

A cheat

3.

a falfe

ful,

Lat.]

In fome chymical authors,

fignifies a dividing into l.irge pieces.

H rris.

BUCK. n.f. [bauche. Germ, fuds, or lye.]
1 .

The liquor in which clothe* arewafhed.
B»tkl

1

;;

BUG

BUG
Bud ! 1 wsuld I could wa(h myfelf of the iucl

i

2.

I warrant you, buck, and of the feafon too it (hall
Slakejf>eere.

appear.

The clothes wa(hed in the liquor.

2,

Ot lace, not able to tiavcl wiih her turred pack,
/he waflies bucki here at hom?.

Skah/fear;.

BUCK. 1./. [l"w.-h, Wellh; ioci, Dutch;
iouc, Fp.]

The raale of the fallow deer

9

:

To cc.ifine.

4.

How brief the life of man
Runs his erring pilgrimage
That ths ftrctching of a fpan
.^
Buckles in liis fum of age.
Sbaleffcare,
!

Slatefj-eare.

To

[from the noun.]
copulate as bucks and does.
ti.

To Bu'cKLE. f. n. \_hucketi. Germ.]
1. To bend ; to bow.
Like ftrength!:;fs hinges, buckle under life,

Bu CKBASKET. »./ The balket in which
rammed

2.

At dead of night, ihall raifc his fon, and cry,
Turn out, you rogue how like a beall you lie
!

plant ; a fort of trefoil.

The

may be made, or wines
Fiv/ir.

by intulion.

of a well.
That owes two buckets, filling one another

The veflels

Shak.
BcntUy,

which water is carried,
particularly to quench a fire.
in

Nowftiects grow throng'd, and, buf)^as by day.

Some run for burkcts tj the hallow'd q-.iire
Sotne cut the pipes, and fome the engines p'ay ;
And fome, more bold, mount ladders to the hre.

3.

To buckle ivith.

To engage with

;

to

$bjkeff>eare.

cl.Ur,

Fr.]

[b~v:cclec/,

mans did i':(X itor Fabius, when they called him tljc
Siv'ift.

fame in the Armorick ; boucle, French.]

Alinkof raetal, with a tongue or catch,
made to fallen one thing to another.
Shakejfxare.

The chlamys was a fort of Ihort cloak tieil w th
buckle, commonly to the right Oiouldcr. jirbuih.

Th:'-c feal-rings ; which after, melted duv.n,
Form'd a vaft buckle ffT his widowii g-iwn. ho^'t,
2. The frate of the hair crifped and curled,
by being kept long in the fame ftate.
The greateft beau was dreffed in a flaxen perithe wearer of it goes in his own hair at
wig
home, and lets hit wig lie in buckle for a whole
;

Spectator,
half year.
That live-lung wig, which G«rgnn't felf might

own,
Eternal bmile takes in Parian ftone.

Vofe.

Ts Bu'cKLE. ii. a. [from the noun.]
I,

To fallen with a buckle.

All your prifoners are
the lime grove, which weatherfends your cell.
They cannot budge till your rclcafe. Sbakefpeare.
they did
The moufe ne'er fliunn'd the cat,

Iji

A

To fupport

'V.

a.

r.ot,

«

thee. Kale ;

Shak'ffjcart.

France, whofe armour confcience buckled on,

Whim zeal and charity brought to the field. Sh.tkThy fears a:1iidt r^ee.
Philift.
When yu carry yourmifter's riding coat, wrap
your owa \u it| and tuiUe Cbcm up clofe with a
Sivifi.

Sbakefpeare,

thought th' badft fcorn'd to budge
Hiidilras.

For fear.

ihall

[of uncertain etymology.]
Surly; llifF; formal.
O Ibolilhnels of men that lend their ears

not touch

I

To thofe budge doftors of the (loick fur.

buckler thee againJt a m'UlIon'.

ShakeCfeare,
Can Oxford, that did ever fence the right,

N jw luckltr falihoud with a pedigree

?

Sbaktfp,

Milton.

Budge, n. /. The dreffed (kin or fur of
'

lambs.

D/ifl.

Bu'cKLER-THOftN. 71./. Chrift's tliora.
Bu'doer. n.f. [from the verb.] One
Bu'cKMAST. n./. The fruit or malt of
that moves or ilirs from his place.
the beech tree.

Let the-firtt iudger die the other's (lave.

Bw'cKRAM. v./. [bougran, Fr'.] A fort of
Shjkefpenre,
And the goJs doom him after.
ftrong linen cloth, IlifFened with gum, Bu'dget. n.f. [bogetu, French.]
ufed by taylors and ftaymakers.
1. A bag, fuch as may be eafily carried.
1 have pcppcied two ot tlum j two, 1 am fure, I
have paid, two rogues in buckram I'uits. Shakcfp.

If tinkers may have leave to live.
And bear th fowlkin budget ;
*

Tlien my account Iwell may give.
And in the ftncks avouch it. Shahifptartt

Bu'cKRAMS. n. /. The fame with luild
garlick.

Bu'cKSHORN Plantain, n. f.

Sir Robert Clifford, in whnfc bofom, or budget,

[arono-

pus, Lat. from the form of the leaf.]

mod of I'crkin's fecrets were laid up, was corns

A

n.f. \rhamnus, Lat. fuppofcd to be fo cilli'd from bucc. Sax.
the belly.]
tree that bears a purging

A

Baccn,

into England,

His budget with corruptions cramm'd.
The contributions of the damn'd.
Swift,

Miller.

2. It is ufed for a ftore, or ftock.
It was nature, in fine, that brought off the.cat,
when the fox's whole budget of inventions failed

be^ry.

Bo'cKWHEAT. n.f.

Thus ever, when 1 buckle on my helmet,

1

Budge, ailj.

Bu'ciCTHORN.

Like fjphire, pearl, in rich embroidery.

From rafcals wotfe than they.

[from the noun.]

to defend.
fwect wench, they
;

iear.

I'll

budge

Mdifii.

plant.

Buckled below fair knighthood's bending knee.

(irap.

To Bu'cKLER.

Temple,

To BUDGE. -J. n. [bouger. Fr.] To Ilir;
to move off the place ; a low word.

This meiial compliments the emperor ai the Ro-

BU'CKLE. ti.f. [b-jj-cl, Wellh, and the

:i

Of apricocks, the largcft is much Improved by
budding upon a peach llock.

Drydcn.

buckler of Rome.

Fair lined flippers for the cold.
With buckles of ihe pureft gold.

tree.

My buckler o'er ray aged father calV,
defending, as I paft.

Sh^kcfp*

to grafF by
To Bud. 1/. a. To inoculate
inierting a bud into the rind of another

Through tro.jps of foes, which did our pafTige ftay;

To a lefs noble fubftancc chang'd.

1.

Young budding virgin, fair and freih and fweet.
Whither away, or where is thy abode ?

;

buckled on the arm.
He tonk my arms, and while I forc'd my way

Stiil fighting, ftill

Dryden's SiUnui,

heads rear'd.

To be in the bloom, or growing.

3.

Dryden.

Wellh bouA Ihield ; a defenuve weapon

BU'CKJLER. n./.

own necks they

And felt for budding horns on their fmooth fore-

Yet thou, they fay, fnr marriage doll proi idc ;
Is th'S an age to buckle lulb a briJe ?

their

fear'd

;

The porringers, that in a row
Hung high, and maje a glitt'ring fljiw.
Were now but leathern iutkits rjng'd.

Dryden,

Tho' lab'ring yokes on

bent another way, and endeavouring to make them*
Lccke.
buckle to the thing propofcd.

For Ciigle comba'., thou fhalt buckle nu'ith me.

Is the fca ever likely to be cvapofttcd by the fun,

or to be emptied with buckers ?

!

encounter ; to join in a cloie fight, like
men locked or buckled together.

Now is this golden crown like a deep well.
The emptier ever dancing in the air,
The other down unfecn, and full of water.

There the fruit, that was to be gathered from
Chrendott,
fuch a confiint quickly budded out.
Heav'n gave hrmall at once, then fnatch'd away.
Ere mortals all his beauties could furvey :
Juft like that flower that buds and withers in a day.

Drydcn.
Go, buckle 10 the law.
This is to be done in children, by trying them,
when thw-y are by lazinefs unbent, or by avocation

bitter naufeous plants, as centaury, huek-

Bu'cKET. a.y". [^fl^M/, French.]
1. The vcffel in which water is drawn ont

3.

;

Eccl.

To rife as a gem from the ftalk.

2.

attend.

to

Now a covetJUi old crafty knave.

Slakefpfijri.

Bu'cKBEAN. n./. [teci/ioerten, Daicii.] A
Barte, gentian, of which tea

To apply to

To buckle to.

field.

See the a3i-je, 2d fenfe.

me in with foul (hirts, foul ftockJDgi, and greaiy
nackin?.

Bud forth as a rofe growing by the broofc-of the

Impitient of h's fi:, breaks like a lire
Shakffpetirf,
Out of his keeper's arms.

clothes are carried to the wafh.
nie kito 3l huckhajiet j

(harp corroding liquor, that caufeth a fwelling-in
Btntly.
the leaf, and clofeth the orifice.

To Bud. v. n. [from the noun.]
1. To put forth young fhoots, or gems.

The vvrctch, whole fever-vreaken'd joints,

Tile chief time of fetting traps, is in their inciMartimer.
irrjr time.

They conveyed

Be as thou was wont to be.
See as thou waft wont to fee J
Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower
Hath fuch force and blelTed power. Shuk^f,
Writers fay, as the moil forward bud
Is eaten by the canker ere it blow.
Even fo by love the young and tender wit
Is turn'd to folly, blaftin*^ in the bud,
Lofing his verdure even in the prime. Sbakefpeere,
When you the riow'rs for Chloe twine.
Why do you to her garland join
Prior.
The meaneft hud that falls from mine ?
Infeils wound the tenJcr buds, with a long hollow trunk, and depofu an egg in the hole, with a

The lord Gray, captain of the men at arms,
was forbidden to charge, until the foot of the avantguard were huctlcd with them in front. Hayuiard.

;

hufk'mg.

of a plant ; a gem.

To join in battle.

Here is a bafket he may creep in here, and
thrnw Ibul linen upon him, as if it were goii-g to

TeBvcK. V.

BUD. n, /. \boutfn, Fr.] The firft Ihoot

Hjxnjtr.

,

Bucks, goats, and the Ike, ar^ laid to betripp'ng
Penct.m.
or laiiar.t, that is, going or leaping.

To

To prepare to do any thing the metaphor is taken from huckling on the armour.
The Saracen, this hearing, rofe amain.
And catching up in hafte his three fquare fhicld.
And fliining helmet, foon liim buckled to the field.

3.

the male of rabbits, and other animals.

To Buck. -v. a. [from the noun.]
wa(h clothes.

P U F

VEJtrange,

him.

[buckiveila.

Germ.

Miller.
fagopyrum, Lat.] A plant.
Buco'LlCK.a<j). [/Jot/xiAixa, from |3ol'X6^®',
a cowherd.] Falloral.

Buff. n.f. \iroxa buffalo.
I

.

A fort of leather prepared from the
of the buffalo ; ufed for waift belts,
pouches, and military accoutrement*.
flcin

Hb 2

A ropy

;

...

;

:

B U F

BUG

B U L

A fopy chain of iheumt> • v'llage roogh,
DfforcoM, unfeatur'd, and a (kin of htiff, Dry/ln.

The bold buffxn, whene'er they tread the green,
Their motion mimiclu, but with jcft obfcene.

To BUILD. 11. a. preter. I huiU, I have

The fliins of elks and oxen dreffe'd in

Garth.

2.

and prepared after the fame manner
as that of the buffalo.
3. A military coat made of thick leather,
fo that a blow cannot eafily pierce it.
oil,

A fiend, a fairy,

picilefii

and rough,
Shakeff.

To BUFF. T. a. \huffc, Fr.] To
it is a word not in ufe.

flrike :

learning be-

ctloes pedantry, and wit buffoonery.

Locke.

Low jells

;

Of huffaloti, fait goats, and hungry cows. Vryiin.
A blow
[huffeto, Ital.]
with the fill ; a box on the ear.

Bu'ffet. n. f.

ridiculous pranks ; fcurrile

Cbromtlet*

2.

mirth. Dryden places the accent, improperly, on the firft fyllable.

L'EJIrange.

And while it lafts, let buffoonery fucceed.
To make us laugh for never was mure reed.

10, I could divide myfcU, and go to huffcts, for
moving. fuch a di(h of (kimmed niilk with fo honourable an action.

Has ta'en with equal thanks.
Hhjkijfeare,
Co, baffled coward, IcA I run upon thee.

And with one iuffit lay thy ftrufture low. Milnn.
Round his hoUow temples, and his cars.
His buckler beats ; th« fun of Neptune, ftunn'd

With thefe repeated buffm, quits the ground.
DryJen^

Buffe't,

ti.

Fr.] A kind
of (helves, where
out to (hew, in a room of
\luffette,

/.

of cupboard ; or

foundatioiu

The rich hufftt well-colom'd ferpents grace,
And gaping Tritons fpewtowalh your face. Pipe.
To Bu'ffet. o^. a. [from the noun.] To
Arike with the hatid ; to box ; to beat.
Why,. woman, your hulband is in his old lunes
again i he fo buffets himfelf on the forehead, crying.
Peer out, peer out that any madnefs, I ever yet
beheld, fcemed but tamenefs.
Shateffeare.
Our ears are cudgell'd ; not a word of his
But Uiffji better than a fid of France.
Sbakeff.
!

The torrent roar'd, and wc did buffet it
^ith lufty finews; throwing it afide.
Sbahff.
Inftantly I plung'd into the fea.

And biffilittg the billows to her rrfcue,
Redeem'd her life with half the lofs of mine.
Otiuay.

y»Bu*FFET. x>. «. To play a boxingmatch

.^

If I might buffet lor my love, I could lay on like
Shaktfpeare^s Henry V.
a butcher-

Bu'ffeter. «./. [from buffet."] A boxer;
one that buffets.
Bu'ffi.e. ». / [ieu^tyVr.] The fame
with iuffale ; a wild ox.
To Bu'pFtE. -v. n. [from the noun.] To
paz7.Ie ; to be at a lofs.
This was the utur ruin of that poor, angry,
hujiing, well-meaning mortal, Piftorldes, who li»s
equally under the contempt of both parties. Stu'ift.
Bu'ffi.eheaded. adj. [from tuffle and
head.']

Love built on beauty, foon astesuty, dies
Choofe this face, changed by no deformities. Donne*
I Would endeavour to deftroy thofc curiou", but
groundlefs ftrudurcs, that men have built up of

In the following paf-

fage, wings are erroneoufly afcribed to

A man with a large head, like a

BUFFO'ON. «./. [biffon, French.]

A man whofo profeffion is tomakefport,
by low jells and antick poftures

To ButLD. 'V.n.

Yet let me flap this bug with gilded wings.
This painted child of dirt, which Hinks aid Kings.

Buo.
\"-f- [It is derived by fome
Bu'gbear. 3 from ^^, by others from

To play the architeft.

1

To build, to plant, whatever you intend.
To rear the clumn, or the arch to bpnd. Pofe.

Pofi.

To depend on

2.

force which his word hath for the alfurance of ano-

and putting tricks upon them, than upon foundnefs
Bann.
of their own proceedings.
Even thofe who had nut taAed of your favours,
fame
of
your
bene(iccnce,
on
the
yet built fo much
that they bemoaned the lofii of their expcfiacions.
Dryden*
This is certainly a mucli furer way, than to build
on the interpretations of an author, who d-.es not

hear.

As ghaftly bug their hair on end docs rear.
Yet both do ilrive their fearfulnefs'to feign.
Fairy Slueen.
Sir, fpare your threats

confider huw the ancients uled to think.

Bui'loer. «./.

Sidfiey,

Such bugbear thoughts, once got into the tender
minds of children, fink deep, fj as not eafiiy, if

firft

Locke,

;

a jack-

pjdding.

Denbam*
Her wings with lengthenM'honour let her fpread.
And, by her greatnefs, (liew her iai/aVr's fame.
Prior,

Bui'lding.b./ [from^;«7^.] Afabrick;
an edifice.
Thy fumptuous buildings, and thy wife's attire.

A

Have coft a mafs of publick t.'eafury. Shakeffeare*
View not this fplre by meafure giv'n

To buildings rais'd by cimmon hands

Then took that (quire an horny iug/e fmall.
Which .'ung adown «is fide in twifted gold.

That fabrick riles high as hesv'n,

Whofe bafis on devotion (lands.

And ta(li.-ls gay.

Fairy Slutcn.
1 will have ^ rccheate winded in my forehead,
or hang my bugle in an invifible baldrick. Shakejp.
He ga>e his Ivgle horn a blaft,
That through the woodland ecno'd far and wide.
Ticheil.

A (hining bead of black

Bu'gle.

to have his proclamation canv?(fcd on a publick
IVarts.
ftage, and b;comc the fport of I'uffeunu

plant.

A man that praftifas indecent raillery.
It is the nature of di lis a:.d buffoons, to be infolent to tbofc that will beat it, and flavifh to

VEpiuigt,

Bu'gle.

Prior.

Among the great variety of ancient coins which
1 faw at Rome, 1 could not but take particular
notice of fuch as relate to any of the bmiliiir.gs or
Addijin.
ftatues that are ftiU extant.

Built. »./. [from build.]
The form the (Iruflure.
1

;

As is thi! built, fo ditfcrcnt is the fight;

y!uf/f bracelets, necklace amber,
Sbakeff. are.
Ptrfum'd fir a lady's chamber.
'Tis not your inky brows, your black filk hair.
01'
cream,
Your bugle eye-balls, nor your cheek
That can cntame my fpirits to your w>rtbip. Shak.

No prince would thlnkJjimfelf greatlyhonoured,

how fa- it

endeavoured, with comforts, to wipe aw.iy. Honker
Mark'd out for fuch an ufe, as if 'twere meant
T' invite the iuiuler, and his choice prevent.

horn.

Bu'gle. n, /.

temple built by Solomon, beheld

excelled the fccond, which had not builders of like
abilities, the tears of their grie\etl eyes the prophet*

To the world, no bugbear is fo great.
Pcpe.
As want of figure, and a I'mall eftate.
Bu'goiness. t!./. [from buggy.] The
(late of being infedled with bugs.
Bu'ggy. adj. [from bug.] Abounding
with bugs.
\n. /. [from bujen. Sax.
Bu'ole.
Bu'glehorn.J to bend, 5^/«»<r ; from
bticula, Lat. a heifer, Junius ; from
hunting
bugle, the bonafus. Lye.]

Addi^tn,

He that

When they, which had feen the beauty of the

Vi.jirar.ge.

ever, to be got out again.

[from build.]

builds ; an architedl.
But fore-accounting ol't makes builders mifs ^
They found, they felt, they had no Icafe of blils.

Haft not flept to-night ? would be not, naughty
a bugbtar take him.
Shakejf.
Wc have a horrour for uncouth monfters ; but,
upon experience, all thefe bugi grow familiar and

man, let it flecp ?

eafy to us.

Hooker^

Some build rather upon the abufing of others,

now ufed for a falfe terrour to frighten
babes.
Each trembling leaf and whifUing wind they

Sbakejfearc.

to reft on.

ther's mind, that buildetb upon it.

:

The bug which you would fright me with, I feek.

;

By a man's authjrity, we here underlland the

pug ; bug, in Welfh, has the fame meaning.]
A frightful objeil ; a walking
fpeftre, imagined to be feen generally

glafs.

bufEilo ; dull ; ftupid ; foolilh.

Ssyle,

opinions alone.

it.

fet

plate is fet
entertainment.

To raife any thing on a fupport or

J,

;

Slr^keffeare,

A man that forttinc's tvffets and rewards

And whores and bawdL. do clvirci cs build* Sbak*
To raife in any laboured form.

When the bca.-drcfs was built up in a couple of
cones and fpirrs, which ilood fo excelfiveiy high on
the fide of the head, that a woman, who was but a
pigmy without her head-dre(s, appeared like a Co.
Sjje^at^r*
lofTus up' n putting it on.

no wonder if buffoons fet up for publick mi-

houfehold (luff.

a

When ufurera lell their gold in the field,

BUG. n. f. h. (linking infeft bred in old

Become tjie unworthy browfe

to make

Thou (halt not build an houfe unto my name.

an ill-bred man, has the air, and

Dryden.

ox.

•then.

in

cftfapes not the opinion, of brutal'ty ;

nillcrs.

Ben yotifm,

BVFFJLO.n.f. [Ital.] A kind of wild

2.

Courage,

;

fabrick, or an edifice.

The praflice or art of a buffoon.

it is

To have kuff'd out the blood

J.

1.

[Itlden, Dutch.]

To raife from the ground

Where pubiick miniAers encourage buffoonery,

Tbtre was a fliock.

From aught but a block.

BuFFo'oNERY. «./ [hom buffoon.]

2.

Ji wolf, nay woife, a fellow all in buff.

built.
1

n. /.

[from hugula, Lat.]

A,

Miller.
».

/ A fort of wild ox.
Phillips's World of Words.

[from buglojjum,
The herb ox-tongue^

Bu'oLOSs.

«. f.

Lat.]

Their mountain lliot is on (yir fails defign'd ;
D-ep in their hulls our deadly bullets light,
And through the yielding pianks a paffage find.
Dryden^
;

2.

Species of building.
There is hardly any country, which has f,> little
(hipping .is Ireland; the reafon muft be, the ic.\rlemple*
city of timber proper for this built.

BULB. n.f. [from buli'ut, Lat.] Around
body, or root.
T.ikc up your early autumnal tulips, and bulbs,
Evelyn's Kitcndar,

if you will remove them.

11-

.

B U L
1( wt con/iJer the iu!i, or bill of the eye, the
:Bt;'LKiNEss.

exteriour membrane, oi coat the.-e<ii", is made thick,

;B

U L

n.f.

[Trava,

B U L

Wheat, or r.ny other grain, cannot
(had of monej;, bccaufe qf
change of its quantity.

Bvlb'aczovs. ai/J. [ialiaceia.Lzt.'} The
lame with bulbous.
Diti.
Bul'bous. a,//, [from i*a/^.] Containing
bulbs ; coniilling of bulbs ; having
roand or roundifh knobs.

its

n.

written ktlge : bilge was the lower part
of the ftiip, where it fwdled out ; from

Whom tlie fpoil'd arms of llain Halefus grace.

Foams o'er the covers.
Drydcr,.
The manner of fea engagements, which wjs to

_,-., ,

axi LIMY. »./ [gsAiaU, from g^c, an ox,
and /if*i;, hunger.] An enormous appetite, attended with fainting, and
co!dnefs of the extremities.
Dia.

BULK. n.f. [bulcie, Dutch, the breaft, or

are taken in by their ideas.

Sni;h.

The grofs; the majority} the main
mafs.
Thofe very points, in which thefe wife ineii

difagreed

ttom the tulk of the people, are pomts

m which they agreed with the received do«r.nes of

our nature.

AJdij„n-, FruULUr.

Lbargc in property, through the hulk of a nation, makes flow marclics, and its
due power a'

ways attends it
'I

Svfiji.

he iulk of the debt mull be leflencd gradua.h.

P"'"V'','"

Th.it it did fcern to Ihattcr all his

6u/k,

Shakijpuri.

The mam part of a fhip's cargo; as,
is

and contain-

know no more what becomes of them than of

of the
*heir necks like dia-

eel! or fwaliows

I confrfs it

the

is

expieffion,

Bull-trout.

•weed.

or

butrujh, bull-trout ; ai,J is therefore oniv

Bu'llace. tt.

an auijincnlative fyllable, without much

In Oflober, and the beginning of
November,"
cnine fervices, medlars, bullaces
;
rofes cut or
removed, to come late ; holyoaks, and fiich
like.

reference to its original fignification.
Bt;i.i,-EAiTiNo.7/./. [^rom^<'/and,iaiV.]
Wliat am I the wilcr for knowing that Trnjan
was .n the fifth yejr of his trihuncihip,

Biiccrt.

Bu'llet. n.f [boulet, Fr.] A round ball
of metal, ufu.-illy (hot out of guns.

when he
with ahoilc-race or buil-

pcr.pic

Bishot's-weed. n.f.

A plant.
f. A wild four plum.

[ammi, Lat.]

The fport of baiting bulls with dogs.

W-

Bull-weed. n.f. The fame with

bull-head,

as

/ A large kind of

hull-trcut,

DUhh, m comjjofition, generally notes the Bull-wort,
large ilze of any tivog,

«.

in Northumberland, a trout called
a
of a much greater length and hignefs
than any in thefe fjuthern parts.
Walton.

yllttrbury.

P„pe',Lrt!tn.

.

Phillips's World of Words.

tfout.
There is,

wha; the Englllh alii bull, ]-,
though the f nfe be manif-d

p"""S'':

Waltn.

A little black water vermin.

3.

Rome was in the

''";'''"•

a filh

is

are ufjaily full of fpawn ail the fummer,
which
fwclls their vents in the form of
a dug.
The
bull-htad begins to fpawn in Apiit
in winter we
j

.^yliffc.

A blunder; a contradiclion.

5.

thumb, or hull head,

As when the dcvililh iron engine, wrought
In d-cpeft hell, and fn.m'd by
furies (kiU,

And end his being,
to brcoA tulk,

feal,

miller's

but his lips arc very rough, much like
a file ; he
hath two rti.s near to his gills, which are
roundilh
or crefted ; two fins under his bellv, two
on the
back, one below the vent, and the' fin of
the tail
IS round.
Nature hath painted the body of this
filh with whitiih, blackiih, brownifli
fpots. Thcy

commandments of

clared haw inflexible the court of

Main fabripk.
He rais'd a fi^li fo piteous and profound,

5.

The

It was n.t till :,';er a frelh bull
of l.eo's had de-

eatfctainci the

4.

A ftupid fellow; a blockhead.

The name of a filh.
of no pleafiT-g (hjpe ; it has a head big arid
flat,
much greater than luitable to its body ; a mouth
very wide, and ufually garing; he is without
teeth,

Thole hulU came afterwards to
be hu.'.g to the diplomas of the emperors
an J popes.
frori whence the) had the n.ime
of bulls. Arbuih.

Ai-butLnai.

natural bull pafs into the apprchenfion
hut they
j

1.
2.

called apoftoiick bv the cano-

mond crilTes.

t" it,

2. Size ; quantity.
Thingt, or ohjeels, cannot enter into the
mind
as they fu^f.ft in themfclvei, and
by their own

lct;crs

figure . f a heart, hung about

of

g.cvth

comes

Mm.

There wis another fore of ornament wore by thf
young nobility, called bulla; rouni, or

Stair..

great tu,k; but fitter for the
merchant than the
man ot war, for burden than for battle.
Raltirh.
at its full

is

ing in th.-m the decrees and
the pope r,r bifli.-p of Rome.

hundred fliips ; not fo great of hulk indeed,
but
of a more nimble motion, and more ferviceablc.

3.

A bull

An infea.

.

In the fcriptural fenfe, an enemy pow-

nifts, ftre:it;'hened v»-ith a leaden

K.f.

B u L L - B E E 5 Phillips's World of Words.
BuLL-HE.AD. n.f. \_ham bull Tixxii hcad:\

A

Againft thefe forces there were prepared near one

Thoufh an animal arrives

BuLL-FLY. 1

Shak,fp,^,e.

erful, fierce, and violent.
Many buih have coiiipalTcd me; ftrong bulls of
Baflian haie befet me round.
Pfahm.
3. One of the twelve figns of the zodiack.
Ac laft from A:ics rolls c e bounceoua lun,
And the britjh' Bull receive; lilm.
rhomjon.
letter publilhed by the pope.
4..

Magnitude of material fubftance ; mafs.

at a certiia age, perhaps it never
fMtulk till thr Iia period of life.

The mellow bull-finch anl'wers from the groves.

Even fuch kin as the parifti heifers arc

Begins at four, and ends at ten years old.
2.

_

ftips

—

BuUi a.-e moic crifp upon the forehead than
Bacon.
^ "*s„
BeH age to go to buH, or calve, we held.

largeft part of a man.]

The Spaniards and I'ortuguefe have

Tlie blackbird whifties from the thorny
brake,.

to the town i«//.

.

HW loilh

Phillips'! World of Words.

the male to

;

A fmall

[rubicilla.]

bird, that his neither fong nor whiftle
of its own, yet is very apt to learn, if
taught by the mouth.

A gentlewoman. Sir, and a kinfvvoman of mv

To jut out.

Battm s

j4dd;fo„.

a cow
mailer's

timbcrthat iutges from its bottom or foundation,
is faid te batter, or hang over the
foundation.
Moxan's Mtchavkal Extrafts.
^

.

.

The male of black cattle

I .

The fide, ur part of the fii; of a virall, or anv

I

„

Arbutbmt.

BULL. ». / IbulU, Dutch.]

DryJin.

.

All the harmlefs part of him Is that of
a bull-,
dog; they are tame no longer than they are
not
offended-

BuLL-FiNCH. n. f.

bore and link the enemy's (hips with the
roftra,
givs bulky and high fljips a great advantage.

to founder.
;
Thrice round the fhip was toft.
Then iutg'd at once, and in the deep was loft.

~,

tries.

Unfatisfy'd with margins clofeiy writ.

To take in water

3.

coun-

Drydcn.

Huge Telephus, a formidable page.
Cries vengeance ; and Oreftcs' bulky rage,

bili5. Sax. a bladder.}
I.

for his courage.
He is ufed in baiting
the bull ; and this fpecies is fo
peculiar
to Britain, that they are faid to
degenerate when they are carried to other

Latreus, the iulkieft of the double race,

Rjy on the Crtat.

was originally

[It

to open the cargo.

Bulk. «./ [from biehie, Dan. a beam.]

A part of a building jutting out.

Here ftjnd behind thisAWi.Straightwitlhecome:

Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it hotr.e.

i4«*.
'i;he keeper coming up, found
Jack with n'
hfe in him ; he took down the body, and
laid it
on a bulk, and brought .ut the rope to the ComArouihmV: Hift. cf
Pj"/'
J. Bull.
E j' I, K H E A D. n./.
partition made acrofs

A

a fhip, with boards, whereby one par
is divided from another.
Harris.

A

dog of a particular form, remarkable

Lc^kc.

or ftatu{e.

your in/icaj roots.
Evelyn's Kituriar.
Tneir leaves, after they are fwelled out, like
a hulbcut root, to make the bjttic, bend inward, or

Shaktjpeare.

Bull-dog. n.f. [from ^a// and </(!^.]

Bu'lky. adj. {hom. bulk.] Of great fizc

ard liirfute roots. And 1 take it, in the bulhcu
,
the fap hafteneth more to the air and fun.
Bucr,
Set up your traps for vermin, efpeciailj amor^ii

ij.

and

Falftaft',

roared, as ever I heard a bull-calf.

ferve in-

bulkinefs,

There are -/f roots, huii'.ui ro^ts, fibrous foots,

come again clofe to the ftalic.

you carried your guts away as
_
nimbly, and roarod for mercy, and ftill ran
an*

nefs of flat u re, or fize.

tough, or ftreng, that it is a very hard Ejattcr ^o
make a rupture in it.
Ray,

To Bulge,

And,

buUy.] Great-

With windy nitre and quick fulphur fraught.

BuLL-BSBF. «. /. [from bull and W.I
Coarfe beef; the flelh of bulls.
They want their porr.dge and their

And ramm'd with bullet round, ordain'd to kill.
GiafFer,

fat lull-

'•"'"'•

'.1
Tr.r-l.. -,i-ri,i.
to fright
children with.
*hcfe fulminatinns from the 'Vatican
were
turned into ridicule ; and, as they were
called bull
*'K"-!, tiiey were ulcd as words of fcorn aiid
conernpt.
rr.

^y^,_

A he-calt

;

uled

a terra of reproach.

.'or

a ftupid fellow:

leader,

defpcrately fighting

mot with two builtts, and flain.

a-'

once,

Knolles.

And as t'e built, fo difl'erent is the fighti

Their mountii,g fhot-is on our fails defign'd
;
Deep in their hulls our deadly biiUets
light,

And through the yielding.planks a palfage find,

.

Bt;LL.CALF. n.f [from bull and calf]

their

mongft the foremoft of the janijarict, was at

Siak/i^car,.
„
Bi;M.-BEot7AR. n. f. [This word probably came from the infolence of tholo
who
begged, of raifed money by the pope's
buH.J Something terrible; fomcthine
e^
7,

D^ydcn.

f

Bu LLiON. n.f \liUon, Fr.] Gold or lilvcf
in the lump, unwrought, uncoined.
1'he balance of trade rau^t of ncccfiity
be re.
turned in coin or bullion.
Bacon..
fecond multitude,
With wond'rous art, found out the malTy ore.
Severing each kind, aad fcumm'd the buliion drofj.

A

Miltcn,

Mulinn

;

;

;

BuH'nn ii filver whofe workminlhip has no va.
And thus foreign coin hath no value htre
for its Aampi and our coin is builiin in foreign'

certain etymology ; Henjhaiu derives it
from pumiin, a kind of worthlefs gourd,
This feeuw harlh ; yet we
or melon.
ufe the word cabbage-bead in the iame
Bump is ulad amongd us for a
fenfe.
may not bumpkin be
knob, or lump
much the fame with clodpate, l.ggerhead,
An awkward
block, and blockhead?}
heavy ruilick ; a country lout.
The poor*i(m/fi'!, that had never heard of fuch

jUJifn,

A fecurity

3.

Bu

;

a fcreen ; a flielter.

Some making the wars their b-.ltvart, that have

I. L i't J o N . «./. [ from hulUo, Lat,
] Tije
att or ftate of boiling.

to be obftrved

Bv'mpkin. n.f. [This word is of un-

Taking.avvay needlefs ti(An'«r*j, di*er» were dcHayward.
mpliftied upon the fea eoafts.

Our nival ftrength i« a biiheark to the nation.

(laminions.
Leclr,
In every vrffil there it ftowage for immenfc
treafoi e;, when.the cargo is pure huHhr.
' Adi'ifun,

is

BUN

A fortification.

2.

lut.

Tliere

;

6 U M

B U L

•

;

before go:ed the gentle bofom of peace witli pillage
Shaieffturr.
and robbery.

in thefe difliilutions,'

which will n jt eafily inci^rporace, what the effeflt

To Btj'i.wark. v.

are, a» the buititmi,

the precipitation to the b'ttorn, the ejacalation towards the tup, the fuff^ilion in the mldft, and the like.
Bac-i:,

a.

:

[from the noun.]

to ftrengthen with bulwarks.
And yet 00 balivjrid town, or diftant coaft,
Prefcrves the beauteous youth from being fccn.

To fortify

;

delrghts before, bicded herl'elf at the change of het

Bu'llock. n.f. [from /;*//.] Ayoan|rbull.
they fell in/fo,lj.

Sbakrjtcare.

Same drive the herds;
Th'

Can never da^ce three rteps witii a becoming air.
Dryden,

The Ajfcll aunt telling the faJJeft tale,

'

S metinie for threefoot ftool millaketh me,
Then (lip I from her*u>», down topples flie. Stai.
This faiii, he gently rais'd the knight.
Hudihrat.
And fct him on his bum upright.
From dufty (hops neg tiled authors come.

appointed way, and tuns with threat'ring
horns.
CmvKy.

Until the tranfportation of cattle into England

was prohibited, the q:iiclccft trade ot" rcidy money
here was driven by the fale of young bullock!.

f0

A h:avy buirfkiir, taug!>twith daily ca:e,

the part on which we lit.

here the fietLC btiHockl

fcorns

Drydrn.

Martyrs of pres, and relickj of ttie bum.

'temfU.

In his white cloak the raagiftrate appea.'s
The country iunpiia the fame liv'rj' wears. DryJ,
It was a favour to admit them to breeding j
they might be ignorant bumf kins and clowns, if

from burlyt as a corruption in the pro—n.
Becaufc our reafon's foar'd tdo high.
nunciation ; which is very probably
corrupa
[This
is
Bumba'ilifp.
m.
right
huU-eyeil
or from bulky, or
f.
tion of bound bailiff, pronounced by
which are lefs probable.
May it not
gradual corruption botin, bun, bum baicome from bull, the pope's letter, imliff] A b.tiliff of the meanell kind;
plying the infolence of thole who came
one that is employed in arrtib.
invefted with authority from the papal;
Go, Sir Andrew, fcout me for him at the corner
court?] A noify, bluftering, quarrelling

fellow, who, aiming at defcription, and the ruftick
wonderful, gives an air of bumfklnly romance to
Ctarifa.
ail he tells.

;

fellow
it is generally taken for. a man;
that has only the appearance of courage.

,

BUNCH.

'

bard; which fee.] A great gun j a
"blackjack; a leathern pitcher.
Yond fa-nc black cloud, jond huje one looks

'Tij ^o iidic"ious, but fo true withal,

Dryd<n.

.

Mr. Stecvcm, with much more probabi1.

7c Bu'lly. v. n. To be noify and quarrelfome.

And baskets o( bulrujbes, was my wont.
Spenfrr.
Ail my praifes are but as a bulrujh caft upin
rent.-

t>rydtn.

The edges were with bending oiicrs crown'd;
The knolty bulrujh next in order ftood,
And all within of reeds, a trembling wood. Dryden.

BU'LWARK.
probably

n.

/.

Dutch ;
ftrength and

[bol'wercke,

only from

its

largenefs.]
1.

(luffed

with

cotton;

.

But him the fquiie made quic:;ly to retrcar.
Encountering fierce with fingle (word in hand.
And 'twixt him and bis lord did like i bultC'arl
ftand*

Spfnjer.

They oft repair
Their earthcm tulviarh 'gaiitft the ocean flood.
Fairfax.

We have huhvarkt ronnd nj
Within our wills aic troops cnuc'd to toil. Addijm.
8

am a buncb of
Slekcffeare.

radd;fl>.

Ancient Janus, with his double face
And baiKi of keys, the porter of the place. Dryd!,
The mother's bur.b of keys, or any thing they
cannot hurt thcmreives with, ferves to divert little
'

(luffing;

Loikf.

children.

Wc ha\e receiv'd your letters full of love.

4.

And, in our maiden council, rated them
Aj couit(hip, pleafant jcft, and courtefy.
Staieff.
As bumbajl, and as lining to the time.
Bump. n.f. [perhaps from bum, as being
prominent.] A fwelling ; a protuberance.

h had upon its brow a bumf as big as a young
cockrel's (lone; a perilous

knock, and

it

cried

Shokeffcari.
Not though his teeth are beaten out, his eyes

bitterly.

Hang by a ftring, in bufn[>s his forehead rile. Dryd.

To Bump. v. a. [from homhrn, Lat.] To
make a loud noice, or bomb. [See
It is applied, 1 think,

only to

the bittern.

Then to the water's brink (ho laid her head.
And }i a bittour buwp> within a rccd.

To thee alone, O lake, (he faid—

'

Drydt.

Bu'mper. n.f. [from bump.} A cup filled
till

And the lad bleirings of the vi-ar are thine. Dryd.
A number of things tied together.
And on his arms a tumt of keys he b.)re.
Fairy ^een.
All
I know not what ye call all j but if I
.'

»vadding.

Bo.MB.]

What is now called a baftion.

Sbak.

rtiadows, than iiia

fouglit not with fif:y of them, I

Greio.

Linen

2.

.1

dream; they are born by the ftrcngth of the cur-

3.

A cloth made by fewing one fluff upon
another ; patchwork.
Thi ufual bumbajl of black bits fcwed into ermine, our Engliih women arc made to think vi-ry
fine.

large rufh, fuch as grows in rivers, without knots ; though Dryden has given it
the epithet knotty ; confounding it, probably, with the reed.
To make fine cages for the nightingale.

diftribution of the lights and

-

the filk or cotton of a tree.

bility, deduces them all from bomhycinus.']

Bu'lrush. n.f. [from W/ and rfl/&.] A

Vines, with cluft'ring buKcbft growing.

DryJ,
obfcivation drawn from a hunch of grapes.
For tliL-e, large banetes load the bending vtne,

fein, filk ;

Pientices pari.li civrks, and hectors meet,
He that is drunk, orbully^d, pays the treat. JCir^.

;

bombafi and bombufim being mentioned, with great probability, by Ju
nius, as coming from boom, a tree, and

To

overbear with noife or menaces.

A duller many of the fame kind growTiiim faid, that he knew no better rule for the

AJJif'>n,

To Bu'lly. i;. a. [from the noun.]

the

ing together.

haji \

when he grows cholericl^, I cooAne Kim tm his
wr.nth is over.

2.

SbakeJlie.irc.

A

Danifti,

n.f. [falfely written for bom-

Bu'mbast.

f^oiJiog hero is, at the w^tft, a more toierabl*:]
charafier than a£i>//y iiipcic'.ccati.
AJtiipri.
Tlje little man is a bully in his naturc,_but,

[buncker,

They will carry their trealures upon the iiwriri

Like a foul bumbard, that would iheu bis liquor.
*

/

of camels, to a peopie chat ihall not prulit them.
Ifiiiah, XXX. 6.
He felt the ground, which ho ha<t wint to find
with
little round
even and foft, to be grown hard,
A'Tyi.
balls or buiichis, like hard boiled eggs.

Shakeffeare.

Bu'mbard. n.f. [wrong written for ^owj-

rock! Speak I'cholnrly and wifely.
Shahtfpeafc.
All on a fuJtien the doors fl?\v-ope:i, and in
C3mcs a crew of roaring buli.es, with their wf r*chc>,
their dogs, and th?ir bottles,
VEftriingr.

«.

crags of the mountains.]
1. A hard lump ; a knob.

:

Mine h. ft or' the garter!— What f,iys my bully

Lccke.

ing the manners or appearance of a
clown ; clownilh.
He is a fimple, blundering, and yet conceited

W—

of t!ie orchard, like a bumbailif.

-

they plcafeJ.

Btj'MPKlNLY. <7<^'. [from btimpkin.'] Hav-

The learned Sydenham does not doubt.
But profound tliought will bring the gout
Ar d that with hum on couch vre lie,

Bu'lly. n.f. \Skinmr derives this word

A lully cannot fleep without a brawl.

L'EJfrarge.

condition.

BUM. ft.f. [bomme, Dutch.] The buttocks

Why, that's fpotcen liicc an honcft drover: fo

the liquor fwells Over the brims.

Any thing bound into a knot
bunch of ribbon ; a tuft.
Upon the top of all his lofty creft,

Reels to the bawds,

fiydcn's Juvtnal.

as,

a

,

A buit^h of hairs difcover'd diverfly.
With fprinkled pcavl and gold full richly dreff.
Sfcnfir.

To Bunch, f. n. [from the noun.] To
fvvcU out in a bunch; to grow out in
protuberances.
refemblancc of a champignon before
opened, bu.tcbiag out into a large round knob
fVoclward.
at one end.
It has the

it is

Bunch ba'ck ED. ad/,
back.]

[from bunch and
the back j

Having bunches on

crookbacked.
The day (Ijall come, that thou (haltwi(h foroie,
To liclp tbeecurfe this pois'uuus huncbiacVd toad.
Rbaktjpeare,

Bu'vcHiNEss. n.f [from ^««r^.] The
quality of being bunchy, or growing in

bunches.

4'lace. his delight

All d.ry in playing buK'psrt, and-Ht n'.ght

:

Bu'nchy. adj.

[from Lunch.} Growing

ia bunches j having tufts.

He

;

:

;

He IS more efpecially diftinguiiHeJ from otFer
birds, by his iur.cby tail,

and the ihortnefs of hii
Cr(XV.

legs.

BUrNDLE. n.f. {b^^nble, Sax, frombynb.]

A number of things bound together.

\.

As to the turjlts of pi^nrins in parliament, diey
were, for the moft part,"j)«titJOOS of private perI'.ale.

fons.

Try, lads, can you this bandU break;

Then bids the youngeft of the fix
Take up a well-bound heap of flicks.
2.

—

To denominate them monSets, they muft have
had fomo fyilem of parts, compounded of folids
and fluids, that executed, though but burglingly,
their. peculiar furdlions.

To

To Bu'ndle. t/. a, [from the noun.]

a bundle ; to tie together : with

«/.

We

ought to put things together as well as we
can, dcFtr'wae (aufj ; but, after all, feveral things
will not be humiUd up together, under our terms
Lnke,
and ways of fpeakirg.
See hnw the double nation lie?.

Like a rich coat with fkirts of frize ;
As if a man, in malcing pjftcs,
Snuifr*

After three' nights are expired, the next mornMulMir.
ing pull out the l>'-"lg ftick, or plug.

T'oSvftG.'v.a. [ from the noun. ] To Hop

Thy for.gs are fwceter to mine ear.
Than to the thirty cattle rivers clear.
Or winter porridge to the iab'ring yojth.
Or bunn$ and fugar to the damftrs tnutli.

loofe

Or I wilt ihakc thee from me like a ferpent. Shak,
Depti;dents and fuitors are always the burs, and
fVot'^!..
fometimes the briers, of favourites.
"Whither betake her
From the chill dew, amongrt rude burs and thirties.

Gay^i Pafl'jrals,

Mill on.

A fwelling part; an in-

from bent.]

And where the vales with violets once were

creafing cavity.

crown'd,

he wear is a frith, reaching flopewife through
the ooze, from the land to low water mark, and
having in it a bunt, or cod, with an eye-hook,
where the fifli entering, upon the coming back
with the ebb*, are flopped from ilTuing out again,
forfaken fay the water, and left dry or> the ooze.

Now knotty iuri and thorns difgrace the ground.

'I

Vtyden.

A fellow (luck like a bur, that there was no
(haking him off.

Bu'rbot. n.f.

Dia.

out

:

as, the fail buuts out.

Bu'nter. n.f. A cant word for a woman
who picks up rags about the ftrect and
ufed,

bv way of contempt, for any low

Bu'rdelais. n.f.

fore properly written httrthen.
It is
fuppofed to come from burdo, Lat. a
mule.]
1. A load ; fomething to be carried.

The

Camels have their provender
Only for bearing burdens, and fore blows

name of a bird.
I

twk this lark for a bunting.

For finking under them.
Shakefp. Coriclarut.
It is of ufe in lading of rtiips, and may help to
fliew what burden, in the feveral kinds, they will

Shaktffieare.

Bu'ntinc. n.f. The ftuff of which a

bear.

Why may not imaginatinn trace the nobleit duft
of Alexander, till he iinil it Hopping a liurgldt f
Shaktjpeart,

To BU'NGLE. T. ».

[See Bungler.]

To perform clumfily.
When men wane l^ghr.
They mak£ but lur^gling woik.

my hands.
^ivlfi.
To Bu'ngle. f. a. To botch ; to manage
clumfily ; to conduct awkwardly
with
:

up.
Other Jevi's, that fuggeit by treafons.
Do botch anit bungU uf dtm ati n.
With patchu, cclouriy juid with forms, being
tctcht

From gl'd'ting femblancej of piety. Shaii/fearc.
They make lame mifchicf, thco^b they mean

To Buot.
is

1'.

a.

[from the noun.
The u
To keep afloat j to

mute in both.]

bear up.
All art is ufed to £nk epifcopacy, and liuncli

which was lately buoyed
up in Scotland, by the like artifice of a covenant.
King ChurUi.
The water which rifes out of the abyfs, for the
fupply of fprings and rivers, would not have ftoppe
at the furface of the earth, but marched direflly
up into the atmofphere, wherever there was heat
enough in the air to continue its afcent, and buy
it up.
JVccdivard' s Natural Hijiory,
prelbytery, in England ;

Bu'nole. n.f. [tVom the verb.] A botch
inaccuracy ;

y.

A

bad workman ;
feflion. DavUi.'\
clumfy performer ; a man without Ikill.

.-i

I'jintcrs, at tlx 6rli, were luch buH^/trt,

md f"

that, wl.cn they drew a c«w or a h^g, rhc)
were fain to write over the head what it wai ;
ruile,

othcrwife the beholder knew not what to m^ke of
Ptacham en DrjKvlng.
it.
Hard features every bungler can command .
To .iraw true beauty (hews a maftcr** hand. Dryd.
burgUr thus, who fcarce the nail can hit,
With driving wrung will make the paonci fplit.

A

S-uif!.

[from bungliag.l

:

All the winged tribes owe their flight and buoyancy to it.
Dertam't Phyfui-Theohgy.

Buo'yant. adj. [from ^«^_)i.]

Floating;

light; that which will not fiuk.

Dry den

word, perhaps improperly, for
fomething th't has denfity enough to
hinder a floating body from finking.
1 fwom with the tide, and the water under me
was buoyant.
Dry den.
ufej the

His once fo vivid nerves.
So full ot buoyant fpirit, now no more
Infp're the courfe.

Stoifti

now obfolete.

Thou hadft a wife once, callM i^milia.
That bore thee at a burden two fair fons. Shakejp.
4. The verfe repeated in a fong ; the bob ;
the chorus.
At ev'ry clofe flic made,^h' attending throng
Reply'd, and bore the burden of the fong.
Dryden's FaHe!.
5.

The quantity that a (hip will carry, or
the capacity of a (hip : as, a (hip of a
hundred tons burden.

ToBu'rden. nj.a.

[from the noun.]

To

load ; to incumber.
Burden not thyfelf above thy power.
Ecclus. xiii. 2.

Pope's EJfay on Criticifm.

y glcr, i. e. the lad or loweft of the pro-

A birth

I

Buo'yANCY. n.f. Ifrom buoyant.] The

Ion

3.

Rifmg merit will buoy Up at laft.

;

Ray 9Tt tbf Crtalhr..

Locke.

Deaf, giddy, helplcfs, left alone.
To all my friends a burden grown.

to rife by fpe-

quality of floating.

Bu'mgler. «.y. [^lu^^/^'r, Wellh;

ad-v.

» talk.

cifick lightnefs.

a

Errours and hunglti are committed, when thf
matter is inafc or contumacious.

Cluoifily; awkwardly.

Mi/ton.

None of the things that are to learn, fliould ever
be made a burden to them, orimpofed on them as

1

7« Buoy. v. k. To float ;

well

Their int'reft is not finely <*tawn, and hid.
But fcams are roarfcly bun^hd up, and (cen. Dryd.

an
cluBify performance.

Couldft thou fuppart

The filhermen, that walk upon tie beach.
Appear like mice ; and yond tall anchoring bark
Dimlnifh'd to her cock; her cock a buoy,
Sbakefp. King Lear.
Almoft too fmall for fight.
Like bucyi, that n<^'cr fink into the flood.
Pipe's Dunciad.

manner before they come tc

Bacon^s Pbyjlcal Remjinsi

Something grievous or wqjbrifome.
That burden, heavier than the earth to hear ?

On learning's furface we but lie and nod.
Drydtir,

Letters t) me ate not fe!do:n opened, and then

awkwardnefs ;

2.

water, tied to a weight at the bottom.

and which is afterwards ftopped up.

A fort of grape.

BU'RDEN. n.f [hyphen. Sax. and there-

(hip's colours are made.

to clofe up.

Arhuthnot's Hiji.offohn Bull.

A filh full of prickles.

Cartnu.

To Bunt. f. ». [from the noun.] Tofweli

Bo'nghole. n.f. [from ^a«f and ic/c-l BUOY, n f Houi', or boye, Fr. boya, Span.]
A piece of cork or wood floating on the
The hole at which the barrel is filled,

Bu'itCLlNGLy.

Lofing both bcautj' ajjd utility. Shatsfp. Henry V.
Hang ofl", thou cat, thou bur', vile thing, let

fweet bread.

;

Should hur.dU thirties up wiih i-ofes.

an

Nothing teems
But hateful docks, rough thirties, keckfies, hurt,

A kind of

BuNN. n.f. [bunelo, Span ]

vulgar woman.
BUNG, n./ [i!ng, Welfh.] A Hopple for Bu'ntikg.
n.f. [emberizaalbal
a barrel.

it

or clothes.

Bunt. //./ [corrupted, as 5>(;«ffr thinks,

She carried a great bundle oi Flanders I:ice under
her arm ; but Anding hcrlelf overloaden, (he dropped the good man, and brought away the lund.'e.

feated in a burtgUng

called 2i burdock, which Hicks to the hair

Bcnilry.

Sivift.

A roll; any thing rolled up.

tie in

BUR

BUR

BUN

mean not that other men be ealed, and you

burdened.

Corinthians, viii. 13.

With meats and drinks they had fuffic'd,
Not burden d nature.
Milton.

Bu'rdener. n.f.

A

Bu'rdenous. iidj. [^xom. burden.]
Grievous; opprelfive ; wearilbme.
Make no jcft of that which hath fo carneftly
pierced me through, nor let that be light to thee
which to me is fu burdenous.
Sidney.

1.

2. Ufelefs ;

cumbcrforae.

To what an 1 be uleful, wherein fcrve.
But to fit idli: on the Houihnld hearth,

A burd^nous drone, to vifitauts a gaze.
Milt^.n^s Sampfon Agonijltt.

Tbomfon^t j4utumn.

Bur, Bour, Bor, come from the Sax. Bu'rdensome.
bup, an inner chamber, or place of ihade
GJifoii's Camden.
and retirement.
Bur. n.f. \_ltippa : bonrre,Fc. is down ;
the bur lieing filled with a foft tcmcntum,
or down.]
A rough head of a plant.

[from burden.]

loader ; an oppre(ror.

adj.

[from

burden.'\

Grievous ; troublefome to be born.
His leifurc told him that his time was come,

And lack o\ load made his life burderjft,n:e. Milton*
Could 1 but live till burdenjome they prove.

My life would be imworta! as my love.
Dryden's Indian ErMcrour.
AliTftancci

BUR

BUR

BUR

AffiftancM ilwayt attending ui, ujion the eafy
condition of our prayere, and by which the moft
burdchme duty will become light and eafy. Rogtn.

Bu'romastbr. See Burcomajtkr.
Bu'rclar. n.f. One guilty of the crime

fpoti In the fun, however noble hit fpeculationi
may be, they are very apt to fall into burlefjue,

of houl'ebreaking.

Bu'rdensombness. n. /. [from burdtn- BU'RGLARY.
n.f. [from burg, a houfe,
/om.] Weight heavinefs ; uaeafinefs to
and larron, a thief.]

'

To turn to ridicule.''
Would Homer apply the epithet divine

tive.]

j

be born.

BvuDOCK. n. /. [per/elata.]
Bureau'. «. /. [iui^au, Fr.]

In the natural fignihcation, is nothing but the
robbing of a houfe j but, Xi it is a term of art, our
common lawyers reftrain it to robbing a houfe by
night, or breaking in with an intent to rob, or do

A plant.
A cheft of

drawers with a writing-board.

It

is

by day, they

For not the deik with filver nails,

To writing uf good feme.

Siv'ifi.

SwitacrUnd.

Bu'rial. n.f.
I.

Let vanquiihed Hannibal without diors wait.

Too burly and too big to pafs my narrow gan.
Her hulband being

Sjienfir's Muiofetm^s.

z.

,

BURN.

3.

It is a republic itfclf, under the protcftion of
the eight ancient cantons. There are in it an

[bourgeois, Fr.]

A citizen ; a freeman of a city or cor-

porate town.
reprefentative of a town corporate.
Z.

A

The whole cafe was difperfed by the knights of
and burgejfes of towns, through all the veins

—

tVotlor:.

A

corBURGH, n.f. [See Burrow.]
porate town or burrow.
Many tjwns in Cornwal, when they were firft
.sllowed to fend burgqlTes to the parliament, bore
another prop )rtbn to London thiin now; for fevcra.

of thefe burghs fend two burgelfes, whereas t-onCrau/ic.
don itfclf fends but four.
Blu'rghbr. n.f. [from burgb.] One who
has a right to certain privileges in this
Loch.
or that place.
It irks me, the poor dap{)kd fools,
Being -native burghers of this dcfart city.
Should in thilr own confines, with furlCvd heads.
Have their round haunches gor'd.
Shakcfjfteare's Asycu like it.

After the multitude of the common people was
difmifled, and the chief of the hurghers fent for,
tlie imperious letter was read before the better fjrt

of citizens.

Bu'rghership. n.f. [from
The privilege of a burgher.

Knollts.

burgher.'\

n.f. [horn bury.} He that buhe that performs the aft of inter-

Bu'rier.
ries ;
-

Hand for hand, foot for foot, burning for burning, wound for wound, ftripe for iTripe.

Exodus, XXI. 2 J.

To exert the qualities of heat, as by

3.

drying or fcorching.

O that I could but weep, to vent my paflion

ment.

But this dry forrow burns up all m. tears.

Let one fpirit of the firft-born Cain
Reign in ail bofoms, that, each heart being fet
On bloody crturfes, the rude fccnc may end,
And darknefs be the buritr of the dead.
Shakefpfare's Henry W.

BlfRINE.
tot)l

;

Sharp's Surgery,

To wound or hurt with fire or heat.

2.

/lylife's ParergM.

burial fervice.

to demand extirpation, by burring away

the induration, or amputating.

hibited unto perfons excommunicated, .and laying
violent hands on themfcivcs, by a rubrick of the

A type of a particular fort, probably

But vindicate the ways oTGod to man. Pope.

is fuppofcd

The church fervice for funerals.
parllh prielt, at the time of interment, if not pro-

JUiiifin '.n Itj/y.

jfoAua,
Pjjims.

Altar of Syrian mode, whereon to burn
His odious offerings.
Milton.
That where fhe fed his amorous defires
With foft complaints, and felt his hotteft fires.
There other flames might wafte his earthly part,
And burn his limbs where love had burn'd his
Dryden.
heart.
A flelhy cxcrefcence, becoming exceeding hard,

thing under

The olfice of the chur-ch 's pcrfctrmcd by the

hundred burgcois, and about a thaufand fouls.

called fo from him who firft ufed it ; as.
Laugh where we muft, be candid where we
can.

They burnt Jericho with fire.

The fire burruth the wood.

We

^URGEO'IS. n.f. [bourgeois. Fr.]

To confume with fire.

1.

have great lakes, both fait and frcfli ; we
ufe them for burials of fome natural bodies : for
we find a difference of things buried in earth,
Bacon.
and things buried in water.

Hiikewi!'.!"' Prtrvideact.

Dry den.
mau, flie

burly

burned, or burnt, [bepnan, Saxon.]

earth or water.

Shai.
Ev-'n to affrigiit thee with the view thereof.
I was page to a footman, carrying after him his

A citizen; a burgefs.

The ad of placing any

a very

thought it would be le/'s trouble for her to bring
away little Cupid.
Addijcn,
To
'V, a, preterite and participle

Shakejftare.

This day I'll wear aloft my hurgomt,

of the land.

fepultute ; inter-

See my wcalrhy Andrew d'-'ck'd in fand.
Vailing her high top lower than her ribs.
To kifs her burial,
Shakefp. Merchant ofVemce.
Your body I fought, and, had I found,
Defign'd for burial in your native g-ound.
Dryden^s JEne'ui-

The wliich 5?(is wrought by wonderous device,
And curioufly engraven, he did fit.

fiiires,

Away with all your Carthaginian ftate,

[ftota To bury.'\

The ad of burying^

Nor would we deign him burial of his men.

Upon his bead his gliftering burganel.

I .

Co^vley.

ment.

Bu'rgaket. In./, [from burginote, Fr.]
£u'rgonet. 3 A kind of helmet.

Bu'rcess, n.f.

It was the orator's own burly way of nonienfe.

a
is

a woman ready to aflift ; Cuthbur, emiGihfon's Camden.
nent for affilbnce.

but there are fome

not out

the burly boned clown in chines of beef, ere thou
deep in thy (heath, I befcich Jove, that thou
Shakefpeare.
may'll be turned into hobnails.

Add<fcr..

and,- from that,
defence or proteftion : fo C'-wenburh

A fpecies of pear.
A kind of perfume.

Z.

clownilh.] Great of llature ; great
of fize ; bulky ; tumid.
//;ff,

Steel, if thou turn thine edge, or cut

BuRH, is a tower;

Su'rgamot. n.f. \bergamotte, Fr.]

1.

BU'Rl^Y. adj. [Junitis has no etymology;
Skinner iniagmes it to come from ^eer-

o{,the burgcois, at in the other governments ot

The grofs of the borough Is furveyed together
the titiea of particular men's pofli:(rions.
Halt's Origin of M,inkiKd,

DrydcrCs Sfanijh Friur.

Bulk;

burly.'\

blufter.

They chufe their councils and Ivrgomajltrs out

Couuell.

other particular burgages thereof, mentioned under

Broome's Notes en the Odyffey.

CenotU.

among foldicrs.

if not, it is

Bu'rliness. n.f, [from

ment of a city.

'\

whereby men of cities or burrows hold
.their lands or tenements of the king,
•or other lord, for a certain yearly rent.

pike and burganet.

a peculiar

[French.]

n.f.

A fire dcvourcth before them, and behind them
a flame bi-i-vetb ; the land is as the garden of Eden

before them, and behind them a aefolatc wilder-

A graving

nefs.

burdelais.]

Cold fearful drops Hand on my tiembilng flefh.
Shukijfeare.

To (hine

2.

Dicl.

do.

Bu'r:i.ace.

BURLE'SQUE. adj.

Jocular; tending to raifc
laughter by unnatural or unfuitable language or images.
Homer, in his cliarafler of Vulcan and Therfites, in his ftory of Mars and Venus, in his be-

to fparkle.

The barge fhe fat in, like a bur.-jlfh'd throne,

Oh prince

I

3.

To be inflamed with pallion or defire.
When I burnt in dcfirc to qucftion them farther,
they made thcmfclvcs air, into which they vanlfhed.
Sbak^Jpcare,

Tranio, I burn, I pine, I perifh, Tranio,
If I achieve n; t this young nrodcft girl
Sbaktfp,
In Raleigh, mark their cv'ry glory mix'd ;
!

Ra e gh the fcourge of Spain, whofc brcaft with all
The lage, the patriot, and tlie Irero burn'd.
Tiarfiiit

Addifin.

4.

To aSt with deftruftlve violence

:

uicU

of the paflions.

or ideas ; ridicule.

When a ma:i la/s out a twclveon h on

Rowe,

Is your fweet temper turn'd to fury ?

haviour of Irus, and in other paHiigcs, has been
obferved to have lapfcd into the burltfque character, and to have deorrtcj from tliat ferious air,
efl'ential to the raagairicence of an epic poem.

Burle'sque. n.f. Ludicrous language

Shaktfpeare.

oh wherefore burn your eyes ? and

why

[Fr. from burlare,

Ital. to jell.]

;

Burnt on the water.

[corruptly written for
fort of grape.

n.f

A

yocl.

The mount ii/r«rf,w!lh'fire.
Exodus.
O coward confclence, how doft thouaffllft mc!
The light burns blue. Is it not dead midnight 2

Wit is like tire graver's burinc upon copper, or
the corrodings of aquafortis, which engrave and
indent the chaiadlers, that they can never be deGcvernment of the Tongue.
faced.

To drefs cloth as fullers

!

Dryden.

To Burn. <t'. ».
1. To be on fire ; to be kindled.

H graver.

To Burl. v. a.

a

to

an evidence that
Eumeus was a man of confequence ; othcrwife Homer would burlejque his own poetry

modern fwineherd ?

Bu'rgomaster. n. f. [from burg and
majlcr.'\ One employed in the govern-

A tenure proper to cities and towns,

«.

by

What fay you, father ? Burglary is but a venia!
fin

Burg. n./. See Burrow,
Bu'rcace. n.f. [hom burg, 01 burrow.

I .

houfe-robbing,

call

name.

Nor bureau of expence,
Nor ftandilh well japann'd, availl

"in thl beginning of the county j

The like oftence, committed

fome other felony.

pronounced as if it were fpelt iuro.

Addijon on Ancient Mt dais.

To Burle'sque. v. a. [from the adjec-

the

Siiall

thy wrath burp like fire i

Pjalms.

5.

To

;

BUR

BUR
5.

To be in a (late of deftraftive Comfflo-

I find it

B U R

very difficult to knowj

Burr. n. f. The lobe or lap of the ear.
Burr Pump. [In a (hip.]

It is ready to burji like new bottles.

A pump by the

Th' egg, that foon

From his Cordelia.

into which a (la(f (even
or eight feet long is put, having a burr

Shakijfeare-

but he {hot by me
Like a young hound upon a burring fcent. Drydar^
I had a gllmpfe of him }

or knob of wood at the end, which is
drawn up by a rope faftened to the middle of it ; called alfo a bilge pump.
Harris.

A hurt

(Irument or ve(rel ufed to keep corroding powders in, as vitriol, precipitate.
Harris.

We fee the phlegm of vitriol is a very effi:(2ual
B'-yle.
remedy againll barns.

Bu'rrel. n, f. Afortofpear, otherwife

Burn.

n.f. [from the verb.]
caufed by fire.

Bu'rner. n.f, [from burn.']

A perfon

that burns any thing.

The

Bu'rnet. n.f. [fimj/i/iella, Lat.]
name of a plant.

butter pear,

red

the

called

The even mead, that erft brought fweetly forth
The freckled cowflip, iarB.f, and green clover.

from

cxfiy,

An infeift, called alfo

gadbee, or breeze.

Bu'rrbl

Shaiefpfare.

DiSl.

[from bourreler, to exe-

Shot,

Firej

cute, inijhot.'] In gunnery, fmall bullets, nails, (lones, pieces of old iron,

flame; (late of inflammation.
The mind furely, of icfelf, can feel none of the

l^c. put into cafes, to be difcharged out

[from turn.]

n.f.

In liquid burnings, or on dry, to dwell.
Drydm.
Is all the fid variety of hell.

Where all its different lines are rcconcil'd.
!

King of England (halt thou be proclaim'd
Shtikefpeare.
In cv'ry burrcnv, as we pafs along.
PolTeflion of land was the original right of election among the commons ; and burrc'.ws were entitled tolJC, as they were pofTefl'cd of certain trsfls.

Drydm.
Fr.] To

polifh ; to give a glofs to.
MiHike me not for my complexion.

The fliadow'd livery 0* the burnijh'd fua.
To whom 1 am a neighbour, and near bred.

TiKflt.

isbttktfpeare.

Make a plate of them, and burnifo it as they do
Bmiin.

iron.

The frame o{ lurniJJj'd ftccl, that call a glite
From far, and Iccm'd to thaw the freezing ^ir.
Dryden.
3"d Bu'rnish.

f.

».

The holes made in the ground by conies.

z.

When they (hall fee his ciell up again, and the
man in blood, they will out of their burmivs, like
conies after rain, and revel all with him. SbaUfp.

To Bu'rrow. v. n. [from the noun.] To
make holes in the ground ; to mine, as

To grow bright or

To come with violence.

5.

Wcl! didrt thou, Richard, to fupprefs thy vo'.Ce ;
For haJ the palTions of thy heart burfi out,
I fear we (hould have feen decypher'd there
Shckefpcare^
More ranc'rous I'pite.
Where is the notable palTage over the river Euphrates, burjiiitg out by the vallies of the mountain
Antitaurus j from whence the plains of Mefopo-

TbanfotJt

6.

I 've feen a

fnake in human form.

fay, prevents mice

Burr'Jh, and make a gaudy (how,
liecome a gen'ral, peer, an-i beau.

ToBu'rnish. V, n.
mology.]

To grow

She bwfi into tears, and wrung her hands.
Arhulhnot,

rhrry

Lould

Sivift.

iill'd

the

throne.

Ire Juno burnijh'i, or young Jove was grown.
Dryd(n,

To (boot, and fpiead, and hunipt\nvi rran.
Dryden.

Mrs. P.-lmley's great beljy (he may lace down
before, but it burmjiMS on her hips.

Congrc'ui,

Bu'rnisher. n.f. [from biirai/h.]
1. The perfon that burnilhes or polillios.
2. The tool with which bookbinders give
a glofs to the leaves of books : it is commonly a dog's tooth fet in a ftick.
"Bvt.v.y. farlicip. faff, of burn: applied
to liquors, it means made hot.

Vol. I.

bumtuing in it ;

Bu'rsaR. n.f.
1.

The treafurer ol a college.
Students

fent as exhibitioners

But 1 will challifc this high-minded (trumpet.
*

As if he would ^wr^heav'n.
1

Jer. xxx. 8.

Mofes faith alfo, the fountains of the great abyfs
were burjl afunder, to make the deluge ; and what
means this abyfs, and the burjiing of it, if reltrained to Judaea ? what appearance is there of this difBurnct*sTkesry,
ruption there ?
If the juices of an animal body' were, lo as by
the mixture of the oppofites, to caufe an ebullition,
they would burjl the vedi-ls.
Arbuibmt.

Burst. «.y.' [from the verb.]

A fuddeii

difruption ; a fudden and violent aftion

of any kind.
Since I was man,
Suoh (heets of (ire, fuch bjtrjl of iwrr\d t'lundcr.
Such gioans of roaring wind and rain, I never
Reoiember to have heard.
Shaktffiare,
Down they came, and drew

bf-

The whole roof alter tlicm, viithhurjl of thunder.
Upon the heads of all.
Mil/on,
Imprifon'd (ires, in the clofe dungeons {tenc,
U-jar to get lui^lc, and (truggie for a vent

to

the

allowance for four years.
[bourye, Fr. bur/a,

;

Sbakcfpeare,

will bieak his yoke from off thy neck, and will

burji thy bonds.

J:^Jtiiig tl.e'r way,

by eaeh prelbytery, from whom they have a fmall year-

Bur SB. ». /.

Shiiktfi>eare*

He faften'd on my neck, aod bcllow'd our,

univerfities in Scotland

ly

to

And from my (houldcrs crack my arms afurdsr.

[bur/arius, L.a.t.]

2.

;

make a quick and violent difruption.
My breait I'll burjl with draining of my courage,"

Martimcr.
Little ilnufes wouid form, and ^vrro^u underneath.
Sharp.
I

to fprc?.d out.

do, while 2»jtutn

rats

To break fuddenly

To Burst, 'v. a.

caufe of its faiiiiig into rlieir ears.

[of uncertain ety;

and

,i

To begin an aflion violently or fuddenly.

Some ftrew fand amont; their corn, which, they

All ftain'd with infamy and vice.
Leap from the dunghill in a trice,

'.

tamia, then part of the Perfian kingdom, begin
Kmllcs^
to open themielves.
Young fpring protrudes the burjiing gsms.

conies or rabbits.

gloffy.

This

If the worlds

In worlds inclos'd (hould on his fenfes iur^.
'Tb-^mfaiu
He would abhorrent turn.

Philips.

A corporate town, that is not a city,
but fuch as fends burgeifes to the parliament.
All places that, in former
days, were called boroughs, were fuch as
Coiuell.
were fenced or fortified.

I.

O

[iurnir,

a river for

[derived from the Saxon bupj, bypj, a

kept ftill in one place, fireth ; changed often, it
Suckling.
doth nothing.
diadem, thou centre of ambition.

7i BU'RNISH. <!>. tf.

;

city, tower, or caftle. Gib/on's Gamden.']

Shakefptare.

As if tbou wert Che burning-glafs of glory

in

catching of fi(h.

The appetite of her eye did feem to fcorch me
Love is of the nature of a hurning-ghjs, which,

laid

Bu'rrow, Berg, Burg, Burgh. ». /.

increafes their force.

up like a burning-glafs.

Whofe bowels fuddenly burjl out the king
Vet (peaks, and peraJventure may recover. Sltai.

A fmall wear or dam,

where wheels are

glafs. ]

Pcfa

To come fuddenly.
A refolvcd villain,

4.

Harris.

Bu'rrock. n. /.

Bo'rning-glass. n.f. [irora burning and

A glafs which coilefls the rays
of the fun into a narrow compafs, and fo

!

Anu I'wiftly (hoot along the Mali,
Or foftly gild-- by the Canal.

of the ordnance ; a fort of cafelhot.

South.

hurnings of a fever.

Vet am I thankful ; if my heart vrere great,
'T would hurfi at this*Staktfpcarsr
3. To break away ; tP fpring.
You buij}, ah cruel from my arms,

its

fmooth, delicious, andfoft pulp. Philips.
Bu'rrel Fly. [frombourreler, Fr. to execute, to torture.]

To fly afunder.

2.

An in-

Bu'rras Pipe. [With furgeons.]

^cA.

Burning with kindly rupture, forth difclos'd
Milmu,
The ca'.lov.' young.

fide of a (hip,

But burns, and raves, and dies, for you. Addifor
Bu'rning. adj. [from the participle.]
Vehement ; powerful.
Thefc things fting him
So vcnomoufiy, that burti'iKg ihame detains him

P«r. iii. 10.

prelTes (hall hurji out wiih new wine.

Dia.

Fnfe.

6. It is ufed particul-.rly of love.
She hurr.s., Ihe raves, fhe dies, 'tis true

to fufFer a violent

;

difruption.
So (hall thy barns be (illed with plenty, and thy

King.

Burr.t claret fiift, or Naples bifcuit, gave.

The nations bleed where'er her fteps (he turns,
The groan ftill deepens, and the combat hums.

To break, or fly open

1

Who, to refreflj th' attendants to a grave,

tion.

Bu'rning.

;

.

Lat. a

or from birfa, Lat. the exchange of Cartl):ige.]
An exchange
v/here merchants meet, and fliops arc
kept ; (b called, becaufi the fion of tite
purle was anciently fct over fuch a place.
The exchange in the Strand was termed
Britain's Burie by James I.
Philips.
to BURST. -.'. n. I bur^ ; I have burjl,
or burjieif. [bujij-tan, iaxon.]

and undermining all.

Till with 3 mighty burjl whole mountains fall.

Addifm.

fluRST.

"Iparticip. adj.

Bu'rstkn.

j

\Jrcim burjl.

'\

Difeafed with a hernia, or

rupture-.

purfe ;

Bu'ksten N£ss. It./, [from burjL'\ A rapture, or hernia.

'

Bu'r^twort. n.f. {from burfi andi ivort •
he<ninria,h3.1in.'\

An herb good agni It

ruptures.

/).<?.

Burt. n.f. A flat fifliof the turbot kind.
To Bu'rthen. -v. a. 1 c
o
o

'

/•

li

f See

PuRDEN.

Sicrei

"

;

.

BUS

BUS

BX5S
ihicrFil to ridiiMc his whole life longi
A: d tlie f.iJ turiiiti of fomc merry fmg.
Ptfe,
Bu'rton. n.f. [In a (hip.] Afmalluckle

be faAened any where at pleafure,
confilHng of two fingle pullies, for hoiil-

A meafure containing eight gallons} a

t.

His reafons arc as two grains of wheat hid in t«(>
you (hall feek all day ere you find
and when you hajp them, they are not
them

things in or out.

Phillips.

A dwel-

a termination Hill added to
the names of feveral places ; as, Alderling-place

:

Phillips.

It

^oney duth ; ohich he doth with very great cele-

Grrw.
To BU'RY. 1/. a. [byjujean, Saxon.]
1. To inter ; to put into a grave.
Wl.en he lies aiong,
After your way his talc proaounc'c, fljall bury
rity.

Sbakifpeare
His reafons with his body.
To inter, with the rites and ceremonies

2.

of fepulture.
Slave, thou haft flain me !
If ever tbou wilt tiuive, bury my body. Staktjf.
If you have kindnefs left, there fee me laid j
Tn bury decently the injur'd maid.
WalUr.
Is all the favo.:.-.

Busk, n.f.

Bu'sHV. adj. [from ^»/*.]
full of fmall branches, not high.
1. Thick
;

The place was formerly a church-yard, and has
Sill feveral marks in it of gl aves and bury'mg-flaces.

Hfeliator.

The foot was drefl'ed in a (hort pair of velvet

Generally the cutting away of bought and fuckgt-ow'
ers, at the root and body, doth make trees
and, conttariwife, the polling and cutting
high

btijk'mi ; in

Bacm.

•

Thick like a bufli.

2.

Statues of this god, with a thick hupy beard,
AddiJ'i-

3. Full of bufties.
The kids with pleafure browfe the buftiy plain ;

fome places open,

to (hew the fairnef*

Sidney,
of the (kin.
Sometimes Diana he her takes to be,
But miflicth bow, and (hafts, and bujlins to her
Spen/er,kiwe.
There is a kind of rufticity in all thofe pompous
verfes j

fomewbat of a holiday (hepherd ftrutting
Dryden.

in his country bujiins.

A kind of high flioe worn by the an-

2.

cient adlors of tragedy, to raife their

The fliow'rs are grateful to the fwelling grain,
Dryden.

ilature.
Great Fletcher never treads in jii^ixi here,
No greater Jonfon dares in focks appear, Dryden,
In her heft liiht the comic mufe appears.
When (he with borrow'd pride the bufiin wears.
Smith,

Bu'siLESS. adj. [from^K^.] Atleifure;
without bufinefs ; unemployed.
The fweet thoughts do even refreih my labour,
Sbakefptare.

Bu'siLY. /Jfl). [irom bu/y.']

.A thick ihrub.
Eft through tl-.e thiek they heard one mdely rufli,
With noife whereof, he from his lofty fteed
Pown fell to ground, and crept into a bup,
To hide hii coward head from dying dread.
Foiry Sjiieti.
The poller, and exaflcr of fees, ju(li6cs the rcjuftice
to the bujh,
fenibiaace of the courts of
'whcrcunto while the Iheep flics for defence from
the weather, he is fure to lofe part of the fleece.

Baani E£ap.
Her heart tras that ftrange hujh, whofe facred fire

fl^'. [from bufiin.']
With an air of importance; with an air Bu'sKiNED.

1.

Curioufly ; importunately.

2.

Or if too bufly they will cnquirt
Into a vlflory, which we difdaln,
Then let them know, the Belgians did retire
Before the patron faint of injur'd Spain. Drjdtn.

Bu'siNESs.

Bu'sKY. adj. [written more properly by
Woody;
Milton, bojky. See BosKY.]

Employment; multiplicity of affairs.

fliaded

Mull bufincjs thee from hence remove ?
Daimc.
Oh that "s the word difeafe of love.
plural.
2. An affair. In this fenfe it has tht

trees.

1.

Bcftow

That what we tutn'd to fcaft, flie tum'd to pray.

With fuch a care.
At rofej from their ftalks we tear,
"When we Ivould ftill prefer them now.

And frelh ai on the buJh they grew,

n.f. [from ^tt^.]

Waller.

to Ihew that liquors are fold there.
If it be true that good wine needs no buJh, 'tis
true that » good play- needs no epilogue. Siahjf.

Drydtv.
beauties.
The great bujinrfs of the fenfes being to take
notice of what hurts or advantages the body. Locke.

oppoiltion to
4. Serious engagement : in
trivial traniaftions.
never knew one, who made it his bufiirfi to
that was not guilty
lafli the faults of other writers,

To Bi;sH. -v. ». [firom the noun,] To grow

I

thick.

ylddijon.
of greater himfelf.
He had bujlntfi enough upon hit hands, and was

The rofes tujh'wg round
About her glow'd, half (looping to fupport
Milieu.
Each flower of tender ftalk.

•When diverfion Is made the bu/iitifs

Bu'sHFt. «./ [horjfeuu, Fr. bufcllus, low

and ftudy

of life, thoush the ailions chofen be in themfclves

Amund it, and above, for ever green,
The iujhittg alders form'J a fliady fcene.
Ptfe'i OAyJfey.

Prior.

only a poet by act. dent.

A guOiing fountain broke

innocent, the excefs.will render them criminal.
Hogers.

5.

overgrown with

How bloodily the fun begins to peer

1.

Right of aftion.
What biifrrji has a tortaife among the clouds ?
h'Efirargc.

A kifs

a falute with the lips.
;
Thou doll give me flattering ii/fi,—By my

troth, I kifs thee with a moft conftant heart.
Sbake/feare,

while you are in fight we can neither look nor
think on any elfe ; there- are no eyes for other

A bough of a tree fixed up at a door,

woods ;

Fr.]

ShDktfpcarc.
Which crave the inftant ufc.
bufinefs ; the affair or
3. The fubjeft of
objeft that engages the care.
You are fo much the bujia.j's of our fouls, that

The facred ground

with

Stakrffeare.
Above yon bujky hill.
BUSS. n.f. [bus, the mouth, Irilh; bouche,

Your needful counfel to our bufintjcs.

Shall vreeds and pois'nous plants rcfufe to bear;
Each common bujh Diall Syrian rofes v\ear. DryJeii.

Dreffcd

in bufkins.
Or what, though rare, of later age.
Miltsn,
Ennobled hath the b-jjkin'd ftage ?
Here, arm'd with (ilver bows, in early dawn.
Her bujkin'd virgins trac'd the dewy lawn. Fc/it,

of hurry.

I

Religion did not confume, but infpire
Such piety, fo chaftc ufc>of Cod's day.

Lat.]

A kind of half boot; a flioe which
comes to the midleg.

1.

Sptrftr.

All in the fliadow of a hufiy brier.

Moft bufiUh when I do it.

BUSH. «./ [ills, French.]

a.

Bu'sKiN. n.f. [brofeien, Dutch.]

The gentle (hepherd fat befide a fpring.

Bu'rying-place.w./ a place appoint-

I.

Off with that happy bujk, which I envy,

That ftill can be and ftill can (land fo nigh. Dorm,

are dill many of them eltant in Rome.

of dead bodies.

Fr.]
A piece of
worn by women to

ftrengthen their ftays.

The name of Antony j it was divided
SbaitJ'ftart,

[bufque,

Princes thought liow they might difcharge the
earth of woods, b.iars, btijhmenii, aud waters, to
Rult'igb.
make it more habitable and fertile.

A tearing groan did break
Thy name fo iury'd in her.

or ruin him.

J

render'd life,

To kill, dellroy,

To do one's bufinefs.

fteel or whalebone,

of the top, make them fpread and grow bujhy.

4. To place one thing within another.

Btrllcy,

approach to the fun.

a clufter of bulhes.

Shaktfffdre.

flie

tions of the world, a perpetual fjkrirg will not do
their bvjiniji; they muft have longer days, a neater

lity ofbcing Ijufhy.
Bu'sHMENT.H./[from^a/?'.] A thicket;

This is the way to make the city flat,

e,d for the fepulture

Irons within

9.

And bury all, which jet diftinOly ranges.

Between her lieart and lips ;

To thofe people that dwell under or near the
equator, this fpring would be moil pcftilent : as for
thofe countries that are nearer the pules, in which
number are our own, and the molt conflderable na-

Dia.
Bu'sHiNESs.w./ [frombupy.'] The qua-

To conceal ; to hide.
In heaps and piles of ruin.

8.

'•

_

3.

c/trt-ivhccl.

They were far from the Zidonians, and had n»
Judga,
with any one.
Something required to be done.

bufintjs

the hole of the nave, to preferve it from
wearincr. ffrom bauche, Fr. a mouth.]

his nature to dig bimfcif turUs, aj the

is

of a

Biijhels

3.

Bu'rv. n.f. [corrupted from borough.']

Ji»cottm

Something to be tranfafted.

7.

tures with I'ujht/i of gold, without counting the
Drydn.
weight or the nunvbcr oi' pieces.

monbury, St. EJmond's Bury ; fometimes
written bery.

in the other.

i

ibahjpiarc.
worth the lea. ch.
2. It is ufed, in common language, indefirdtely for a large tjuantity.
The worthies of antiquity bought the rareft pic'

iiig fraall

A

point; a matter of queftion ; fometbing to be examined or confidered,
f itnefs to govern, is a perplexed tujinrfi fome
men, fome nations, excel in the one ability, fome
;

lujhili of ch ifl';

to

Bu'rv. n.f. [from bnpj, Sax.]

6.

ftrike.

Some fquire perhaps you take delight to rack.

Who vifits with a gun, prcfents with birds.
2.

Pope.
Then gives a fmacking bu/s.
A boat for filhing. [buj/i, German.]
If the king would enter towards builJing fuch a

number of boaU and bujis, as each company could
eafily manage, it would be an encouragement both

Tentfle.

of honour and advant.ige,

To Buss, -v. a. [from the noun.]
to falute with the lips.

To kifs

Yonder walls, that partly front your town,

Yond towers, whofe wanton topjdoiii/i thee ouds,.
Shahfptdre.
Mull kifs their feet.
Go to them with this bonnet in thy hand.
_

Thy kncz buffing the ftones; for in fucli bufinefs,
Shakejpeart,
Aftion is eloquence.

Bust. »./

[i;//?a, Itnl.]

A ftatuc reprc-

fenting a man to his breall.
Agrippa,

•

;

'

BUS

BUT

BUT

Agrippl, or Cillguta, is a common coin, but a
Xkty extraordinary ii<^; and a Tiberius a rare coin,
j^difon on Italybut a common huji,
(he found it vain to truft
Ambition figh'd
The faithlefs column, and the ; rumbling tuft.

The pleafure which I took at my friend's pleafure herein, idly iafted me thus to expicfs tlie

If we do bat put virtue and vice in equal circumftances, the advantages of eafc and pleafure
will be found to be on the fide of religion. Tillolfin,
The mifchiefs or harms that come by play, in-,
advertency, or ignorance, are not at all, oi'bul
very gently, to be taken notice of.
Locke on Education*
If a reader examines Horace's Art of Poetry,
he will find but very few precepts In it, which he
may not meet with in .^riftotle.
Md'joit.
Prcpar'd I ftand : he was but born to try
The lot of man, to fufier and to die.
Pope,

Camu^i Survey.
Be it thy courfc to lufy giddy minds

fame.

:

Bu'sTARD. n. /. \biftarde, Fr.]

With foreign quarrels.

Sbukeffeare.

Pope.

While they were btijiej to lay the foumiacions,

A wild

their buildings were overthrown by an earthquake,
and many thoufands of the Jews were overwhelm-

turkey.

Raleigh.

ed.

His facrifices were phenicopters, peacocks, iujphca/ants) and ail thefcwere daily
HaknvUi.
offered.

The points which iu/iej the

f«r</i, turkeys,

firft

devotion of the

ages, and the curlofity of the latter.

'

Decay o/Ple/y.
The ideas it is bujted thoutf /hould be natural and
congenial ones, which it had in itfelf.
Locke.
The learning and difputcs of the fchools have
been much iu/ied about genus and fpecies. Loch.
For the reft, it muft be owned, he docs not
bufy himfelf by entering deep into any party, but
rather fpends his time in a^s of hofpitality. Siuift.

y^Bu'sTLE. v. 11. [of uncertain etymoperhaps fromiujy.] To be bufy
, logy;
to llir ; to be aftive.
Come, tufl/e, ia/?/*—caparifon my horre. Stat.
God take king Edward tn his mercy.
And leave the W3rld for me to tuftle io.

Shak-'f/!.

Sir Henry Vane was a bufy and bujilmg man,
who bad credit enough to do his bufinefs in all

That crawl'd a while upon a hufiiing world,
And now am trampled to my dull again. Soutbrrnc.
Ye fov'reign lords, who fit like gods in (late.
Awing the world, and h'lfiling to be great Granville

is

Wifdom's felf

Sf!B.itor.

BUT. conjuna. [bute, butan, Saxon.]
1.

Except.

An emifllon of Immateriate virtues we are a

Millen.

This is the creature that pretends to knowledge,
tni that makes fuch a noifc and ^u/?/; for opinions.

little doubtful to propound, it is fo

prodigious; but
that it is fo conftantly avouched by many. Bacon,

Smith.
Your poem hath been printed, and we have no
objefliun but the obfcurity of leveral padages,
by our ignorance in faOs and peifons.
Siuift,
2.

(lirring luan.

Except that ; unlefs ; had it not been
that: in this fenfe we now vmit but that.

It is pro-

See fenfe 11.

nounced as hijfyy at biz.%y.'\

3.

The coming fprlng would fir(! appear.
And all this place with rofcs ttrow.

4.

If hujy feet would let them grow.
Wallir.
Alfwritten fince that time, fecm to have little
more than events wc arc g!ad to know, or the
controvcrfy of opinions, wherein the kufy world
has been fo ranch employed.
TtmfU.
Religious motives and inftinQs are fo bujy in
tht bejrt of every reafonabic creature, that no
man would hope to govern a fociety, with'iut regard to thofc principles.

confequence

But raging floods purfue their bafty hand. DryJeit,
Otherwife than that.
It cannot be but nature hath fome direftor, ef
infinite power, to guide her in all her wayy. Hooker.

Who (hall believe,
4
But you mifufe the reverence of your place ? Sbskt
9. Not more than ; even.

A

genius fo elevated and unconfined as Mr.
Cowley's, was but neceffary to make Pindar fpeak
Englilh.
Diyden.
Beroc but now I left ; whom, pin'd with pain,
Kcr age and anguiih from tfaefe rites detain. DryJ.
It is evident, in the inftance 1 gave but now,
the confcioufnefs went along.
Locke.

Yet ; neverthelefs.
enforces ^w.

Shaiefpeare.

It fomctimes only

The particle which introduces the minor
of a fyllogifm ; now.
If thnre be a liberty and poUibility for a man
there is fuch a liberty, therefore no futh necclTiry.

Bramhr.ll i^gjinfi Ilcibei.

Godwin one time or another male; a difference
between the good and the evil.

Addjon.

But there is lltil

•

or no difference made in thi- world ; therefore
there muH be another world, wherein this difference ihall be made.
H^ailiU I.egick.

or intfnfive.

thofe of Cyprus t»

mutiny

:
whofe qualification (hall come into
true tarte again, but by tranfplanting of PafTio.

no

Sbakefpearr.

If it were not for this; that;
were not that. Obfo'ete.

11.

if it

Believe me, I had rather have loil my pnrfe
Full of cruzades.
And, but my noble Moor
Is true of mind, and made of no fuch baliuicfs

As jealous creatures are, it were onough
ShaheJpc^rCt
here do give thee that with all my heart,

Which, but thou haft already, with all my heart
I

to kill himfelf to-day, then it is not abfohitcly
necelTary that he (lull live till to-morrow; but

Troublefome ; vexatioofly importunate

By any other means than.

10.

would keep from thee.

Shakefpeare.

However ; howbeit

1 2'.

Then let him fpeak, Ind any that fliail ftand
without (hail hear his voice plainly; but yet made
extreme (harp and exile, like the voice of puppets:
and yet the articulate founds of the words will
not be confounded.
Bacon,
Our wants ar« many, and grievous to be born,
lat qilitc of another kind.
Stuift.

Dwjitt.

3.

8.

I

fciz'd

His wifli'd ability, he had himfelf
The lands and waters meafur'd.

Sbakejftare.

3. Buftiing ; aftive ; meddling.
The ne»t thing which fhc waking looks upon.
On meddfing monkey, or on bufy ape.
She (hall purfue it with the foul of love. Shahfp.
Thus Ixfy pow'r is woiking Jay and night;
For when rhe outward fenfcs reft do t^Icc,
^ thoufand dreams, fantartical and light.
With flutt'ring wings, do keep her ftiU awnke.

this

To put him to ill-thinking.

Which waits upon worn times, hath fomcthing

My miArefsfendayoaword that (he nhuly, and
cannot come.

Guardian,

without

Do feldom their ufurping power withdraw.

And but infirmity.

Employed with earneftnefs.

I.

?

Where has my fword left one fo black, but Lyson ?

Sfedator.

Sax.

the gate of

that.

!

Such a doftrine made a ftraage iuftle and difturbance in the world, which then fate warm and
tafy in a free enjoyment of their lufts.
So:jtt.
If the count bad given them a pot of ale after
it, all would have been well, without any of this

[byj-jian.

brightnefs, but he opened

Out of that will I caufc

Who can it be, ye gods but perjur'd Lycoa ?
Who can infpire fuch ftorms of rage, but Lycon

Glanvi/le.

BU'SY. adj.

Taykr,

intermeddlers are a dangerous
fort of people to have to do withal.
VEftrangt.
She is well acquainted with all the favourite
fervants, bujybtdies, dependants, and poor relations,
of all perfons of condition in the whole town.

A tu-

Bu'sTLER. n. /. [from buftk.'\ An adive

the ruft of time.

Bujyhodies and

mult ; a hurry ; a combulUon.

iuftle.

tatlers and bufybo-

diet ire the canker and ruft of idlenefs, as idlenefs

!

Were all too ruffled.

its

all

But that;

7.

A vain, meddling, fantaftical perfon.
Going from houfe to h'?ufe,

Oft feelcJ to fw«£t retired folltude !
She plumes her feathers, and lets grow her wings,
That in the various iu/ilt of refort

in

Paradife.

Frofts that conftraii^ the ground

A poor abjeft worm.

Bu'sTLE. «r. yi [from the verb.]

I

The full moon was no fooner up, and Ihining

Ew'sYBODY. n. /. [from iujy and l>ody.'\

Clartndon.

places.

Than.

6.

:

a word of inde-

terminate connexion.
1 do not doubt but i have been to blame;
But, to putfue the end for which I came.
Unite your fubjef5ts firft, then let us go
And pour their common ra; e upon the foe. Drye(.

13. It

is

ufed after no doubt, no quijlion,

and fuch words, and
with that.

figiiifies tlie

fame

It fometiraes is joined

with

that.

They made no account, hut''tbat the navy (hould
be abfolutely mafter of the leas.
Bacon.
1 fancied to myfcif a kind of eafe in the change
of the paroxyfjn; never fufpe£ting but that the
humour would have wafted itfelf.
Dryden.
There is so queftion lut tlie king of Spain will
refi'im in»ft of the abulcs.
yiddifoa.
14.

That.

This feeqis no proper fenfe ix}.

this place.
It is not theicfore impofTible tut I may aitojf
th: cimplcxionof iry play, to reftare aiyfclf intj
the J! )od graces of my fair criticks.
Dryden.

,

Tt« chrirtians, fjmetimes valiantly receiving
the enemy, jn.l f mictiracj cliarging them again,
npuUtd the proud eocmy, ftiil bujy wit!i them.
Kn-jllrt't llijicrji!,/ the lurhi.

5.

15. Otherwife than.

O.ily ; nothing more than.

T'mt nof my f.TV'ie paft, or prefcnt forr.ws,
Can ranfjrn me into hi, love ;tgain
But to kinw fj, njuft be my bcrcfit. Shairffeare.
;

To Bu'sy. <!/. a. [from the noun.] To employ ;
bufy.

to

engage ;

t8

make or keep

He in great palTion all this while dM dwell.
Mote lijying bis quick eyes her face tnview,
Thaa bis dull cars to ixar »ha,t /be did tell.

What nymph foc"cr his voice Itt hears,
WiU be my rival, though llie have but cars,
Ben ytmjon,
Ko, Aurengjcb", you merit ail my heart.

And Tm too n»'bl/r but to give a part.
Dryden.
Did but men condJer the true notion of fiod,
he would appear to be full of g'-K)dBcfs.

Obfolete.
I ftiould fin

If ir.y offence be of fuch mort.il kinj,

TiUotJor.

To think but noUy of my grar .'.mo'Scr. Shakcfp,
16. A particle by whix;h the meaning of
the foregoing fentence is bounded or
reftrained • only.

Thus fijjh s Ulylfsi., thus his fame extends;;

A formidable man, but to his friends.
ly.

A particle of obje£lion

be objected

:

Dryr'eiim

yet it may
it has fomecimes jet with
;

it.

lis

Mm

.

;

BUT
I do not like hut yii ;

B o' r c H E R V w. [from iutcler.]
1. The trade of a butcher.
Yet this man, fo ignorant in modern lutchery,

Tb« good precedence; fie upon but jct!
Butjit is n a iaylour, to bring forth

S^me monnious malefactor.

have been formed and
Conllituted, before the blood was in being } But
again,
the
fubftance
of
the heart itfell' u m>'ft
here
certainly made and nourilhed by the blood, wliii h
^s c invcycd to it by the coronary arteries, Bf'ni'ey.

Murder; cruelty;

2.

But for; without ; had not this been.
!

When the fair boy receiv'd the gift of right.

Unlefs, upon the green.

The place where anim.ils are killed ;
where blood is flied.

fighting.

3.

tyottm.

A fnow.white fteer, before thy altar led.
Butts with Lis threatening brows, and bellowinc
(lands.
Dryder's Mneia.
ram will butt with his head thoogb he be

A

brought up tame, and never faw that manner of

Abhor it, fear it, do not enter it.
old

bcliller,

Englifh,

from

ployed

The end

i

A

em-

fervant in a family
n furniftiing the table.

Ger.eft, xviii. 8.

«.

/ [from butler.'] The

Harris.

duty upon wines imported, claimed by
the king's butler.
Thofe ordinary finances are cafual or uncertain,

blunt end of any thing ; the end upon

which it relh.
The refcrve of foot gilled their foot with feveral
vollies, and then fell on them with the hut-tndi of

as be

the efcheacs,
'^
impoft.

office of a butler.

to fell

tltcir

2.

who,

Bi;'tshaft. n.f. [from but a.nd fbaft.]
The blind boy's iutjhafl.

To Bu'tcher.

To kill

;

Shakefpure.

BUTT, n.f [but, Fr.]
1

t>.

o,

ITncharital'iy with

me hive you dealt.

And ihamefulty by you my hopes ate butcher" d.

Be not afraid though you do fee me weapon'd
Here it my journey's end, here is ray h-^ti.

j

The very fca-mark of my journey's end, Shakefp.
the thing againd
3. The objeft of aim
which any attack is dircftcd.
The papifts were the molt common-place, and
;

Shakeffeare,

the ifuft againU whom ail the arrows were dircfted.
Clarenditi

poifcn

iind

him.

Bu'tCHERS - BROOM,

4.

Dr^der..

A man

upon

whom

the

.

company

played a fentcnce or two at my butt, which
I thought very fmart, when my ill genius fuggefted to him fuch a reply as got all the laughter
I

n.f. [rufcMs, Lat.]
The roots are fomctimcs uieJ in medicine, and
the green fhoots arc cut .'nd bound into bundles,
and fold to the butchers, who uii; it as beC^ms to
fw:ep their blocks ; fronv whence it bad the name
of hutihtrt-hrjon:,
M'llkr.

Bv'tcheklin'ESS. n.f. [hoin butcherly
A brutal, cruel, favage, butclierly man-

on his fide.
5.

A blow given by a horned animal.

A ftroke given in fencing.

Bu'tcherly. aJJ. [from lutfher.'] Cruel

;'

bloody ; grofsly and clumfily barbarous.
Tliere it a way which, brought into fch .ols,
would take away this butcherly fear in majcing ot
yifcbam.

Latin.

What ftratjgems, how fell, how hatcher/y,
!

Siair/jfi.

with which the
month of May.

fields

abound

in

the

Let weeds, iaftcad of bulterfiow'rs, appear;

And meads, inllead of daifies, hemlock bear. Gay.
Bu'TTERFLV.»./[btittepple3c, Saxon.]

A beautiful infefl, Co named becaufe it
firft

appears

in the

beginning of the

feafon for butter.

She turn'd into a winged butterfly.
In tlic wide air^o make her wand'ring flight.
Sfenfcr,

Tell old tales, and laugh

At gilded butterflies ; and hear poor rogues
Talk of court news.

Shakeffeare,

And fo befcl, that as he caft his eye
Among the colworts on a huttirfly.

If difputcs arife

Among the champions for the prize;
To prove who gave the fairer butt,
John Acws the chalk on Robert's coat.

ner.

Ih.t deadly quarrel daily doth beget

SfefJatur.

6.

.'\

Miller.

Eftfocns that damfei, by her heav'nly might.

break their jells.

Or Eneeholly.

A

plant ufed in medicine, and grows \vi Id
in great plenty by the fides of ditches.

Bu'tterflower. n. f a yellow flower,

the dagger are at hand to
huicbcr a hero, when the poet wants brains to favr

The

the fame

:

The point at which the endeavour is
direfted.

to murder.

one of Mr. Congreve'j

Bu'rTERBUR. n.f [petaftes, Lat.]

Drydcv.
2.

It is a fine fimile in

prologues, which compares a writer to a huiterir.T
gameller, that ftakcs all his winning upon one
call ; fo that if he lofcs the lad throw, he is fure
to be undone.
Addifoii,

with bittern.

The groom his fellow groom at buttt defies.
And bends bis bow, arid levels with his eyes.

[from the noun.]

In fuftering thus thy brother to be flaughtcr'd,
Thou fliew'ft the r.ikcd pathway to thy life,
Teaching Hern murder how to butcher theo. Shcik,

UEflrange,

To increafe the flakes every throw, or

The place on which the mark to be (hot Bu'tterbump. n.f. A fowl
at is placed.
He calls on Bacchus and propounds the prize ;

con<]ueLock':.

2,

fters.

fPoffon.

nuft part, are but the great

for the

butchert of mankind.

Shakeffeare,

Words butter no parfnips.

every game : a cant term among game-

One th.-ic is delighted with blood.
rots,

'Twas her brother, that, in pure kindncfs to his

pofture.

An arrow.

Honour and renown are bcdowed on

To fmear, or oil, with butter.

not fuffer fo mich violence, as in the precedent flat

flclh.

The Aephcrd and the butchtr both may look
Sidney,
upon one /heep with pleafing conceits.
Hence he learnt the butcher i guile.
How to cut your throat, and fmile^
Like a butcher doom'd for life
In his mouth to wear his knife.
Stvift.

Butter of tin, is made with tin and
fublimate corrofive.
This preparatioa
continually emits fumes.
Harris,

horfe, buttered his hay.

to the

it

upright pier.
The fupporters or hutments of the faid arch can-

Stv'tft,

animals

1.

part of the arch which joins

BUTCHER. ^. /. [hottcher, Fr.]
kills

Bctccn.

Bu'tment. n.f. [aboutement, Fr.] That

'

One that

3.

the culloms, bullerage, and

A

Butter of antimony.
chymical prepa*
ration, made by uniting the acid fpirits
of fublimate corrofive with regulus of
antimony. It is a great cauftick. Harris.

Bu'tlership. n.f. [from ^a//^r.] The To Bi;'tter. 'V. a. [from the noun.]

Clarsnd':n,

'Ihy weapon wns a good one when I wielded it,
but the hut-end remains in my hands. Arbuthnot.
Some of the foldiers accordingly puihcd them
forwards, with the hut-endt of their pikes, into my

1.

2.

Sivif:.

Bu'tlerage.

BuT-ENO. n.f. [from hat and^»</.] The

reach.

he had drelTed, and fct before them.

Butlers forget to bring up their beer time enough.

of any plank which joins to another on
the outfide of a (hip, under water.

their muf<]ueis.

ing the cream of milk, till the oil feparates from the whey.
And he took hurtrr and milk, and the calf which

that is employed in the care of bottling
liquors.]

;

An unftuous fubftance made by agitat-

1.

he

botlle ;

Ray,
buty-

rum, Lat.]

Shakcjfeari.

BU'TLER. n.f [bouleilkr, Fr. ioteler, or
-

\

BU'TTER. n.f [birctejre, Saxon

There is no place, this houfe is but a butchery ;

you what I mean by tliac word,
Stfty
you will aafwer, I mean this or that tiling, you
cannot tell which; but if I j )in it with the words
in conllruAion and fenfe, as, but I will not, a hut
of wine, hut and boundary, the ram will but^
ftoot at hut, the meaning of it will be as ready to
you as any other word.
Holder,

[In fea language.]

flauehter.

:

Two harmlefi Iambi are balling one the other.

BUT. n.f. \bout, French.] A boundary.

But. n./.

!

Behold this patron of thy butcheries. Shakeffeare.
The butchery, and the breach of hofpitality, is
rep:efentcd in this fable under the malk of friendfliip.
UEJlrange.
Can he a fon to foft remorfe incite,
Whom gaols, and blood, and butchery delight ?
Drydcr.

And, hut fir mifchief,you had died forfpite. Drydaflc

Shakeffeare.

with the head.
Come, leave your tears a brief farewcl the beaft
With many beads bum me away.
Shakeffeare,
Nor wars are fcen,

If thou delight to vie* thy heinoDJ deeds,

Raih man, forbear hut for fooac unbelief.
fValter,
My joy had been as fatal as my grief.
Her head was bare.
But for her native ornament of hair,
Which in i fimple knot was tied above. Dryden.

if I

heaved overboard.

To Butt. t. a. [batten, Dutch.] To ftrike

has cut up half an hundred heroes, and quartered
five or fix mifctable lovers, in every trageJy he
has written.
Pojte.

Shaheffca't.

Mud the heart then

18.

I efcaped upon a butt of fack, which the failort

/

.

docs ailay

it

BUT

BUT

Madam—

Bui yH,

He faw falfc Reynard.
That which feems

Dryden,
to

be a powder upon the

Prior.

wings of a butterfly, is an innumerable company
[burr, Saxon.] A veflTel
of extreme fmall feilhers, not to he difcerned
without a micr^-fcope.
Grrtu,
a barrel containing one hundred and
twenty-fix gallons of wine ; a butt con- Bu'tteris. n.f. An inllrumcnt of fteel
fet in a wooden handle, ufed in paring
tains one hundred and eight gallons of
the foot, or cutting the hoof, of a horfe.
beer ; and from fifteen to twenty -two
Farrier's DiSicnary.
hundred weight, is a butt of currants.

Butt, n.f

Bt;'TT6R-

;

!

BUT
Bu'ttermtlk. n. f. [from bttiter and
The whey that is feparated from
milk-l
the cream when butter is made.
A young man, fallen into an ulcerous confujnption, devoted hi* felf to huUermMk, by which
Har'ofy.
fole diet he lecovered.

He gave his legs, arms, and bread, to his ordiH^ottcn.
nary fervant, to button and drefs him.

Bux'oMNEss. n.f. [from ^axe«.] Wan-

To fatten with buttons

To BUY. f

2.

as,

he buttons

Bu'ttonhole, n.f [from button and
The loop in which the button of
hole.]

Bd'tterprint. n. /. [from butter and

l.et

me take you a buttcnhcle lower.

I'll

plraie the maids of honour, if I can :

A piece of carved wood, ufed to

I will

of all forts and fizcs, applied to the lump of butter, left on it the figure.

A prop

1.

Lockt.

No jutting frize,
Buttrcfs, nor coigne of vantage, but this bird

Hath made his pendant bed, and procreant cradle.

A

woman that fells butter.
Tongue, I muft put you into a hulterieomari's
mouth, and buy myfclf another of Bajazet^s mute,
me into thefe perils.

Bu'tterwort. n.f.

Hhahfpearc.

A plant

the fame

:

vi\x\\/anicU.

Bu'tterv.

Having

adj. [from butter.]

The beil oils, thick;'ned by cold, have a white
colour ; and milk itfclf has its whitenefs from the
Fhjir.
cafeous fibres, and its buttery oil.

Bu'tterv. n.f. [from

butter;

ac-

or,

cording to Skinner, from bouter, Fr. to
place or lay up.] The room where pro-

I

A prop

:

You, and all the kings of Chriflendom,
Are led fo grofsly by this meddling prieft,
Dreading the curie that money may buyout. Shak^

a fupport.

;

concern us to examine the force of this
which our adverfarics are Hill fetting up
againil us, as the ground pillar and buttrefs of the
good old caufe of nonconformity.
South.

What pitiful

It will

plea,

To prop

Bu'twink. n.f. The name of a bird.

I wiil buy with you, fell with you, talk with
Shakejp,
you, walk with you, and fo following.

B u y' E R n.f [from To buj.] He that buys^
.

a purcLifer.

Dia.

When a piece of art is fet before us, let the firil

Botyr a'ceous. aJj. \hutyrum, Lat. but-

the butyraceous parts.

All that need a cool and freih temper, as cellars,

caution be, not to adt who

Having the qualities of butter.

Chyle has the fame principles as milk j a vifcldity from the cafeous parts, and an oilinefs from
Floycr.

Its oily red part is

}Votto*u

To BUZZ. 'V. n. [bizzen, Teut. to growl.
Junius. ]
1.

bvttKku

tofks

of an ape.

old form of marriage, ufed before the
reformation, the bride promifed to be
obedient and buxom in bed and at hoard;

L^F/lrjrtge^t Fables.

BU'TTON. n.f [ioitivn, WelOi

;

from which expreffion, not well underftood, its prefent meaning feems to be

bouton,

Fr.]
1. A catch, or fmall ball, by which the
drefs of man is faSened.
Pray you, undo this button,
Skakefpeare.

'

mention thofe ornaments^ becaufe ot clitr timplicity of the fhape, want of ornaments, ^»/rsffj,
loops, gold and fiiver lace, they muil have been
1

cheaper than ours.

2.

•

jirhutlmt.

Any knob or ball fadened to a fmaller
body.

2.

Biyle.

Fair from its humble bed I rear'd this fl^^w'r,
Sackied, and cheer'd v.-ith air, and fun, and fhow'r j
Soft en the paper rutTits leaves 1 fpread,
Bright with the gilded button tipt iu head, P'jfe.
3.

[echinus marinus.]

The

To Bu'tton. "v. a. [from the noun.]

k To drefs

;

to clothe.

Ode wbofe tuid heart i« buUtn'd up with fted.
Sbtikefpettt !.

Gay ; lively ; brifk.

ii

Tlw canker galls the infants of th« fpring,
Too eft bi:fore thi;ir luii'.ii be difclos'd. Shakrfp.
fca urchin, which is a kind of crabfifh
that has prickles inftead of feet. Ainfiu.

and fet\ip and countftnance the Iriih ^ thinking
thereby to make them more tractable and buxom
to his government.
Spenjer.
He, with broad fails,
the
Winnow'il
buxom air.
Milton.

FiU'd her with thee, a daughter fair,
S<> buxom, blithe, and debonnair.
Milton.
S'urdy fwains.
In clean array, for ruKick dance prepave,
Mix: with xhciuxom damfels band in hand, Ph'ilifs.

The bud of a plant.

Bu'tton. n.f

Obedient; obfequious.
He did tread down and difgrace all the Engllfh,

I'm born
Again a frelh child of the buxom morn,
Heir of the fun's (irft beams.
Crapaw.
Zephyr, with Aurora playinf.
her
As he met
once
maying,

"We failened to the rov^'' ceruin wires, and a
iiittett

Pope,

We join, like files and wafps, in buxxing about

derived.]
1.

3.

Wanton

make a noife like bees-^

Like many fwarms of bees alTembled round. Sptnf.
Theie be more wafps, that buzx about his nolc,.
Shakejpeare,
Will make this (ling the fooner.
For flill the flowers ready fland,
One buz.;^es round about.
One lights, one taftcs, gets in, gets out. JSuckllng.What though no bees around your cradle flew,Nor on your lips diftill'd their golden dew j
Yet have we oft difcnver'd, in their (lead,
A fwarm of drones that bunx'd about your head.-

man, tells his patrcn, that he is obedient
and buxom 10 all his commands. In an

Such as were not able to ftay themfelves, lliuuld
be holden up by others of more f^rength, riding
behind fhem upon xhctuiiscks of the horfe. KrclUs.
The tail of a fox was never made for the but-

to

;

or wafps.
And all the chamber filled was with flies.
Which iuxxed all about, and made fuch found.
That they cncumber'd all men's ears. and eyes,

obedient ; as John de Trewifa, a clergy-

Siakejpeare.

To hum
flies,

from the butyrous parts of

Bu'ttock. n.f. [fuppofed,by 5i/«n<'r, to
chyle.
Flyer.
come from aboutir, Fr. ; inferted by
BU'XOM. adj. [bucj-um. Sax. from bu"Junius without etymology.] The rump
jan, to bend.
It originally fignified
the part near the tail.

made it, left the fame

of the author do captivate the fancy of the buyer.

Bv'tykoms. adj. [huiyriim, Latin.] Having the properties of butter.

South,

confcience

ToBvY. 'v.n. To treat about a purchafe.

to fupport.

;

things are power, rhetorick, or

riches, when they would terrify, dilTuade, or buy ojf

To Bu'ttress. t. a. [from the noun.]

Go, firrah, take them to t)K buttery.

It is like a barber's chair, that fits all

have bought

Golden opinions from all forts or people. Sbakeffr
Pent to linger
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
Their mercy at the price of one fair word. Sbakr
Pleafute with praife, and danger they would bt'y,-

And give them friendly welcome every one. Shak.
ll^otton.

thing that deferves it, or at fome price.

And with a fee that would not only fly. Dcntiim,
in this fenfeit
3. To regulate by money
has particles annexed.

viiions are laid up.

My guts ne'er fuffer'd from a college-cook.
My name ne'er enter'd in a buttery book. Bmmfian.

Addifcn,-

To procure fome advantage by fome-

2.

Sbakefpcare.

ter.]

pantries, and butteries, to the north.

of theitona.

filling

Fruit trees, fet upon a wall againfl the fun,
between elbows rr buttrejfes of flone, ripen more
Bacon.
than upon a plain wall.
But we inhabit a weak city here,
Which buttrejfes and props butfcarcely bear. Dryd.
2.

the appearance or qualities of butter.
Nothing more convertible into liot cholerick
Uarvey.
humours than its buttery parts.

fo the

gazincs mTiV not prejudice their market.

a wall built to fupport an-

;

other wall, and Handing out.

Bu'ttertooth, n.f. [from butter and
totth.\
The great broad foreteeth.
Bu'tter WOMAN, n.f. [from butter and

if you prattle

miles of Gcn;va, that

my fkill in buttonholes difplay.

And brag, how oft I Ihift me ev'17 day. Eramjlon,

A I'utiirfnnt, in which were engraven figures BU'TTRESS. n.f [from aboutir, Fr.]

.

thing equivalent ; to procure by fale,not gift or theft.
They niufl. iijj' up no corn growing within twelve

Sbaieff,

Without black velvet breeches, what is man ?

mark butter.

'woman.]

tonnefs ; amoroufiiefs.
a. prefer. I bought ; 1 have
bought, [bicjean. Sax.]
1. To purchafe ; to acquire by paying a,
price ; to obtain for money, or fomc-

the clothes is caught.

lemons, oranges, buttermilk; and alkaline
Arluihrot.

fpirits hurt them.

print.']

;

his coat.

The fcuny of mariners is cured by acids, a^
fruiti,

BUZ

B U X

;

jolly.

Aimig^'y Jove defcends, and pourf
Into his buxom bride his fruitful fhow'rs. DryJin
She frign'd the rites of Bacchus! cry'd aluud,

And to the ^xfar^mgod the virgin vow'd.

Bu'xoMLY. adv. [from buxum.]
tonly ; amoroufly.

Drydc-:.

Sivifu*

wit.

2.

To whifper

;

to prate to.

There is fuch confuiion iti my pow'rs.
As, after fome oration fairly fpoke

By a belovc

1

prince, there doth appear

Among the buzx^ing multitude.
3. To found heavy and low.

Stakefpeare,

Herewith jrofe a buxzing noil'e among them, aa
been the ruftling found of t^ie fea afar offV

if it had

Hayward.

To Bvy.z.

-v.

a.

To whifper

;

to fpread-

fecrctly.
Where doth the v.'orld thruft forth a vanity.
That is not (fiickly buxx'd into his ears ? Sink,
I will buzz, -ibioa'i fuch prophecies.
That Edward (hill be fearful of his lifq. StakeJ^Did you nof hear
A buzzing of a fcparaiion
Bitwcen the king and Catherine?
Slakeffeen-u
Tlicy might buzz and whifper it one to another, and, t.i.itly withdrawing from the prefence
of the api-ftles, they then lilt their voices, and
Butley,
noife i: about the city.

Wan- Buzz. ;;./ [from the verb.] A hum;, a
whifper : a talk.

The

.

;

:

The hive of a city or kingdom is in bcft condition when there ii Icaft mife or iiiKX in it. Bdccn,
Where I I'jund the whoie outward room in a

of ordnance, and

Kndlei.

them all out, and examine them one Ay one.

/. \bufari, Fr.]

More pity that the cagie Ihould be mawi'd,
While kites and iux.x.ani\ prey at liberty. Sl/ak.
The noble buzzard ever pleas'd me bell ;

Of fmall rcnoNwn, 'tis true

:

fori

not to lye,

We call him but a hawk by courtefy.
2.

A blockhead

Diydtti,

a dunce.
Thofe blind tuxxjrtts, who, in late years, of
wilful malicioiifneli, would neither learo them;

Others will foon take pattern and encouragefo houfe hy houfe,

ft. ect

And wants not buzzers to infeft his car
With petulant fpeeches of his father's death.
Staiiffaire.

BY. fref.
I.

[bi, bij, Saxon.]

It notes the agent.

The Moor is with child iy you, Launcelot.
Sbakffjl>e(Tre^

The grammar of a language is fometimes to be
carefully lludied ty a gruwn man.

Locke.

Deatji 's what the guilty fear, the pious crave.
Sought bj the wretch, and vanijuijh'd by the brave.

Garth.

t. It notes the inftrutnent, and is commonly ufed after a verb neuter, where

twith would be put after an aftive ; as
he killed her ivith a fword : ihe died
iy a fword.
But hy PcliJes' arms when Heflor fell,

Drydnt*

Her brother Rivers,

Dry Jen.

The young ^Emilia.

Ere this, lies Ihorter iy the head at Ponrfret. Rnoe.
By giving the denomination to Icfs quantities of
filver hy one twcntietl), you take from (hem their

I'll ga«e for ever on thy godlike father,
Tranfplanting one by one into my life
His bright perfeflions, till 1 fliine like him. ./fJJif.
Lccke.
Let the blows be by paufes laid on.

due.
Luke,
14. It notes co-operation.
By her he had two children at one birth. Shak,
15. For: noting continuance of time. This
fenfe is not now in life.

7. It notes the quantity had at one time.
Bullion will fell by the ounce for lix diiUings and
Locke.
five pence undipped money.
What we take daily hy pounds, is at leaft of as
much importance as what we take feldom, aad
Arbutbtict,
on!y by grains and fpoonfuls.
The North hy myriads pours her mighty fons ;
Great nurfc of Goths, of Alans, and of Huns. Pope.
8.

Ferdinand and Iiabeila recovered the kingdom
of Grenada from the Moors ; having been in fttC
felTton Xhcitxi hy the (pace of fevcn hundred years.
Bacon.

16. As foon as ; not later than ; noting time.
By this, the fons of Conftantine which fled,
Arabrife and Uther, did ripe years attain.

At, or in ; noting place : it is now
perhaps only ufed before the words Jia,
or lualer, and land. This feems a remnant of a meaning now little known. By

once

expreifed fituation ;

a.i

Fairy Sfueext

Heftor, hy the fifth hour of the fun.
Will with a trumpet, 'twixt our tents and Troy,
To-morrow morning call fome knight to arms.

hy 'wejl^

we ft ward.

We fee the great effefts of battles by fea

Sbakefpeartt
;

the

He err'd not for, hy this, the heav'nly bands
Down from a Iky of jafper lighted now
;

battle of Aftium decided the empire of the world.

Bacon.

In Paradife.
Milton.
Thefe have their courfe to finiAs round the earth

Dryden,

Expell'd and exil'd, left the Trojan fhore ;
Long labours both by fea and land he bore. DryA.
I would have fought by land, where I was

By morrow cv'ning.
Milion.
The angelic gua'-ds afcended, mute and fad
For man : for of his ftate by tlijs they knew.

ty no prefumption led.
Your revels of the night.
Parnel.
By wvK the foul to daring aAion flcals,
^y woe in plaintlefs patience it excels. Savage*

You hindcr'd it yet, when I fought at fea,
Dryden.
Forfook me fighting.
£y land, by water, they renew their charge. Pope,
9. According to ; noting permiflion.

^. It notes the caufe of any effeft.

ftronger

I view,

It
is

notes the means by which any thing
performed, or obtained.

You muft think, if we give you any thing, we
liope to gain by you.
!

Siutb.

We obtain

tlie knowledge

of a multitude of pro-

pofitions by fenfation and reflection.

have not patience : ihe confumes the time
In idle talk, and owns her falfe beliefs
S:ize her hy force, and bear her hence unheard.
Dryiev.
This fight had more weight with him, as by
good luck not above two of that venerable boHv
were fallen aflccp.
AdJiJim
By chance, within a neighbouring brook.
his
branching
hjrns,
and
alcer'd
look.
He fjw
I

6. It ^las a fignification, noting the method in which any fucceffivc aflion is
performed with regard to time or quantity.

The beft for you, is to re-examtoe the caufe,
and to try it even point by point, argument by argument, with all the exa^nef:^ you can.
Hooker.

We are not to ftay all together, bur to ccime by
him where he Hands, by ones, by twos, and by
-

Shakefjtcare.

He calleth them forth by one, and hy one, by
the name, as he pleafeth, though f^ldom the order
Bacon.
k.e invcr'cd.
The captains were obii^d to ^xtiSt tliat fiece

days,

I

am altogether loll and bewildered in it.
jiddifon.

Sy this time, the very foundation was removed.
Sviifi.

and by the law divine, which ^ the perfecBacon's Holy H^ar.
tion of the other two.

By the beginning of the fourth century from
the building of Rome, the tribunes proceeded fo

10.

According to ; noting proof.
The prefent, or like, fyftcm of the world can-

not poflibly have b^cn eternal, by the firft propofiit could not naturally,
nor fortuitoudy, emerge out of chaos, hy the thinl

tion i and, without God,

Bentley,

propofition.

being infinite, hy the
"ihe
preceding propofiiion, may contain or receive both
faculty, or defire,

Chr.ne.

tbefe.

c. Tt ihews the mannsr of an adion.

|

It is lawful, both by the laws of nature and na-

tions,

ffattt^s Lcgicit,

threesr

Mitttn.

By that time a fiege is carried on two or three

:

Stakejpeare.

had it fuffic'd him to have known
Good iy itfelf, and evil not at all.
M'lltcn.
The heart knows that by itfelf, which nothing
ia the world belides can give it any knowledge of.

Happier

\

More young and vigorous too hy twenty fprings.

Till once, 'twas on the morn of cbcarful May,

Arms, and the man, I fmg ; who, forc'd by fate,

He chofc i^neas, and he chofe as well.

4..

13. It notes the fum of the difFerence between two things compared.
Meantime (he ^ands provided of a Laios,

Sfrail.

Explor'd her limb hy limb, and fear'd to find
So rude a |;ripe had left a livid mark behind.
Dryits.
Thus year by year they pafs, and day hy day.

/ [from 6uzz.] A fecret

whifperer.
Her brother is in fecret come from France,

by ftrcet, there will at laft be fisilhcd a mag-

nificent city.

jl/cham.
».

Locke.
and fubmifiion that is due to the father.
By your defcription of the town, I Imagine it
Pope.
to lie under fame great enchantment.
By what I have always heard and read, I take
the ilrcngth of a nation
Sviifi,

Boyle.

ment by your building ; and

fclves, nor could teach others, any thing at all.

Bu'zzER.

The pnnilhinent is not to be meafurci] hy the
greatnefs or fmallnefs of the matter, but by the
oppofition it carries, and (lands in, to that reipeft

away,

Common prudence would direft me to take

A degenerate or mean fpecies of hawk.

1 .

fo hy pieces to carry it

that the enemy fcould not get fo great a (poll.

MJifon.

ii/jja of politicks.
tt.

B Y

B Y

B Y

Bv'iZARp.

;

After ; according to j noting imitation or conformity.
The gofpcl gives us fuch laws, as every man,

1 1

that uadcrliandi himfelf, would chufe to live by.
Tii/otfon.

In the divifions I have made, I have endeavoured, the bed I could, to govern myfelf A^ the
diverfity of matter.
Lock,.
This Oiip, by good luck, fell info their hands at
\aH, and (erveJ as a

model to build others by.
Arhuthvct.

12.

From; noting ground of judgment

or coinparifon.
Thus, by the mulick, we may know.

When noble wits a hunting go
Through groves that on Parnalfus grow, ff^allcr.
By what he has done, before the war in which
he was engaged, we may expcQ what he ^yiil do
Dryden.

af;»r a peace.

far,

and fine the confuls.

as to accufi;

Stvifu

17. Befide : noting paffage.

Many beautiful places, ftanding along the fea
(horc,

make the town appear longer than it is to

thofe that fail hy it.

A.!d'ifn.

18. Befide ; near to; in prcfence: noting
proximity of place.
So thou rray'ft fay, the king lies hy a beggar,
if a beggar dwell near him ; or the church ftantjj
hy thy tabour, if thy labour (land by the church.
Sb.ikcjfe<>re»

Here he comes himfelf j
If he be worth any man's good voice.
That good man fit down by him.
Ben yonfon.
fpacious plain, whereon
Were tents of various hue : hy fome were herds

A

Of cattle graiing.

Mllto*.
Stay Iy me ; tliou art refolute and faithful

I

have employment w >rthy of thy arm.

Dryden.

19. Before him/elf, hcrfdf, or themfcl'ues, ie
notes the ablence of all others.
Silting ii fome pl«ce, by himfelf, let him tranf.
late irto Englilh his former IcHjn.
ytjchan.
Sniyman rcfolved to alfault the breach, after he
had, by y.mjelfyln a melancholy mood, walked up
and down in his tent. Knlliii Hill, of the Turkt.
I know not whether he will annex his difcourfs
to his appendix, or publilh it hy Ufelf, or at all.

The fjn of Hercules he juftly feems.
By his broad ihoulders and gigantic'c limbs. Dryd.
Who 's that ftraiigcr ? By his warlil^c port.

fat down and made them hy ibcmfelves, and then

His fierce demean. ur, and er«Aed look.

fent them to their allies to fign.

He 's of no vulgar note.

Dryden.

Mare pleas'd

Sivife.

to keep it till their friends could

come.

Judge the CTCBt

By wliat has pal's'd*

Boyle.

He will imagine, that the king and Ijis minilters

Dryden.

Than c^t (he fueeteil hy llem/eh/es at home. Pope,
ZO.

At

.

!

;

!

:

This wolf was forced to make bold, evir and

20. At hand.

He kept then ftrae of the ff int ty him, to verify what he believes.

B<.yle.

The merchant is not forccj to keep fo mucli
money by him, as in other places, where they have
Lecke.

not fuch a lupply.

ai. It is the folemn form of fwearing.
His godhead i invoke, by liim I Hvear. Vryden.

22. It is ufed in forms of adjuring, or obtefting.

Which, O

!

avert ty yon etherial light.

Which I have loft for this eternal night
Or, if by dearer ties you may be won.
By your dead fire, and by your living fon. Drydin.
j

Now^ your joys on earth, your hopes in heav'n,

O fpare this great, this good, this aged king
Dryde-n*

By all the pain that wrings my tortur'd foul,
By all the dear tecuitful hopes you gav? me,
O ccafe at Icaft once more delude my forrows.
Smith.

rity.
Upbraiding heav'n, from whence his lineage
came.
And cruel calls the gods, and cruel thee, by name.
Drydcn.

By proxy of: noting fubftitution.
The gods were faij to ftaft with Ethiopians

;

them by their
Brxmc.
25. In the fame dire^on with.
they were prcfent with

Theyarealfoilriared,or fuiTowed, ^'the length,
and the fides curioufly punched, or pricked. Crew.

Bv. adv.

Br-coNCERNMENT. ».yr An affair which
not the main bufinefs.
Our plays, befides the main dcfign, have under-

is

plots, or by-ccm-emmentt, or Id's coiiiiderable per-

fons and intrigues, which are carried on with the

motion of the main plot.

Drydcn.

fomething accidentally depending

;

on

The monfters of the deep.

Drjden.

2. Befide ; pafiing.
I did heir

The galloping of horfe. Who was 't came by f
Sbttktfftare.
'ff'

3. In prcfencc.
The fame words in my lady Phiioclea's mouth,
Ai from one woman to another, fo as there was no
other body by, might have had a better grace.
Sidney.
my liege, farewel

rU not be by the while ;
What will become hereof, there 's none can telL

Shakefpcare.

There while I fing, if gentle youth be by.

That tunei my lute, and wmds the llrings fo high.
PrisV-ers anJ witnclTes were waiting by;

Tacie bad been taught to fwear, and thofe to die.
Rtj'ccmman.

You have put a principle into him, which w ill
influence his actions when you are not ly,

Locke.

By and Br.

In a ihort time.
He overtook Amphialus, who had been (laid
beie, and by and by called him to fight with him.
Sidsey.

To fee wha: e.id of fight ihould him befall that
'by.

Sfcrjcr.

la the temple, by ar.d by, with us,

Thefe couplci fhall eternally be knit. Sbaieffcarc,

O how this fpring of love refcmbleih
THe uncertain tiiory cf nn April day 5
Which now Ihcwi -Ik the beauty of the fon,
And by and by a cloud takes all away. Staie/f.

Now a fcniibie man, by end by a fool, and prcSlrritfieart's 0:ht!h.

Br. n./. [from the prepolKion.] Something not the direct and immediate ubjcft of regard.
In thit ir.llance, there is, upon the ^, to be
ncceJ, the petcolaueo^oi the verjuice (hruugb ix
£ai:.r..

fewer for thefe three hundred years by-paji, than,
ev^r they had been lince we have had records,
Cbeyne^

By-path.

And your three motives to the battle, with
J know not how much more, /huuld be demanded ;
And all the other by-defcndcmiit.
Stuiifjcare.

They'll ferve for other by-dtjigni.
And make an attill underftund
To copy out her feal or hand ;
Or find void places in the paper.
To Ileal in fomething to entrap her.

By-end. n. /.

Heav'n knows, my fon.

By what bf-fatks, and indirect crook'd ways,
1

Private interell ;

fecret

All peop e that worrtiip for fear, profit, or fome
other by-ind, fall within the intendment of this
L'Efirangc.

Br-coNE. adj. [a Scotch word.]

Paft.

Tell him, you're fufe
All in Bohemia 's well : this fatisfaiiion
The by-gone day proclaim'd,
Shaiefpeare.
As we have a conceit of motion coming, as well
as by-gcne; fo have we of time, which depcndcth
thereupon.
Gre'w.

Br-iNTEREST. w.y; Interell dilUnft from

Shakifieitrer

Private end or view.

It may be that Ibme, upon by-r!fpecf:,i\nd Come-

friendly ufage in ufancc, at fome cf thei»
Cartnv.hands.
1 he archbifhops and bilhops, next under the'
be not
kin;, have the government of the church
you the mean to prefer any to thoie places, for
any by-rcffells, but only for their learning, gravity,
Bjcon.
and worth.
Auguftus, who was not altogether fo good as h«
was wife, had fome by-rrjfta: in the enafting of
tliis law; for to do any thing for nothing, was
Drydcn.
not his maxim.

what

:

By-road. n.f. An obfcure unfrequentedpath.
Through (lipp'ry by-rnads, dark and deep,

They often climb, and often creep.

Sivift^

A private room within-

Br-ROOM. n. f.
another.

pr'ythee, do thou Hand in fome by-room, while

queftion

my puny drawer to what end he gave
Shakeffeare.

the fugar.

An incidental or ca-

Br-s?EECH. n.f.
fual fpeech,

not direftly relating to the

point.

When they conie to allege what word and what
law they meant, their common ordinary priflice 13
to quote by-fpeecha, in fome hiftorieal narrationorothcr,and to ule them as if they were written in
Hooker.
mod exaft form of law.

A looker on; one

unconcerned.
She broke her feathers, and, falling to the
ground, was taken up by the by-JianJcrs.
h'EJhartgi.
The by-flandfri aikcd him, why he ran away^his bread being weight ?

Locke.'

An obfcure ftreet.

By-street. n.f.

The broker here his fpacious benver wears,Upon his brow fit jealoulies and cares;
Bent on fome mortgage, to avoid reproach.

He feeks by-JIreets, and faves th' expenfive coacb.Gay.

By-view. n.f. Private felf-interefted purpofe.

No by-v'mDi of his own Ihall miflcad him.

that of the publicic.
Various factions and parties, all aiming at hyintertjl, witliout any finccrc regard to the public
good.

got this crown.

Br-RESPECT. n.y;

Br-sTANDER. n.f.
Hodibras.

advantage.

fable.

A private or obfcurr

n. f.

path.

1

Atltrhury.

Br-LAW. n.f.

^tterbury.-

By-walk. »._/;

There was alfo a law, to reilrain the if /awj
and ordinances of corporations.
Baccn.
In the beginning of this record is iitfcrted the
law or inftitution ; to which are added two bylaws, as a comment upo;i the general law.
jidJifon.

By-mattek. n.f. Something incidental.
I krcw one that, whrn he wrote a letter, wouid
put that which was moii mate ial into the poftfcrpt, as if it had been a /jr-»/j»rr.
Baan.

Br-NAME. n.f. A nicli-name ; name of
reproach, or accidental appellation.
K >b. t, t.tl' it ion to tlie Conquf rour, uted (horr
h^fe, add thereupon was by-named Court-hole,
and fhowcd lirit cheufcof them to tlieSnglifn.
Camden.

A private walk

;

not tho^

main road.
H-2

By-la-wi are orders made in court-Ieets, or
court-barons, by common alfent, for the good of
thofe that make them, farther than the publick
law binds.
Cncell.

The noble kniglit alighted by and by
From lufty fteed, and bad the la^iy fUy,

:
a term of the Scotchdialed.
Wars, peftilences, and difeafes, hive not been

1

Thefe,

And if (he mifs the moufe-trap lines.

And, fnorting by.
We may defcry

By-past, ad/.' Paft

another.

By-DESioN. n./. An incidental purpofe.

And In it lies the god of Heep

wood.-

afterwards entered a hy-ctffetboufe, that ftood
end of a narroNV lane, where I met
with a nonjuror.
Addifon.

From chance to chance.

Near ; at a fmall dillance.

fently a bea:l.

coHateral, as a bj-concernment ; or private, as a by-laiu.
This compofition is
ufed at pleafure, and will be underllood
by the examples follovving.
Br-coFFEEHOusE. n.f,
coffee-houfe
in an obfcure place.

Br-DEPENDENCE. >!,/. An appendage

llatucs.

1

of the direft way, and conlequently
fome obfcurity, as a by-road; fomething
irregular, as a by-end ; or fomething

at the upper

zj. It lignifies fpecification and particula-

is,

By, in compofition, implies fomething out

I

!

that

anon, v\'ith a flieep in private, by the by.
L' EJlrange,
Hence we may underftand, to add that upon
the/yj, that it is nrt necc^ary.
Foyte.
S*, while my iov*d revenge is full and iiigh,
I'll give you back your kingdom by the ly.
Dryden.

A

O cruel youth

24.

B T

B Y

B Y

moves afterwards in Ly-iualks, or under-

plot;., as divcrfions to the main defign, left
it
fhould grow tedious j though they are ftill naturally joined.
Drydcn.
The chief avenue ought to be the moft ample
and noblcj but there fiiould be by-iva/ts, to retire'

into fomctimcs, for eaic and refrclhnicnt.

Br-WAY.

». f.

Broome.-

A private and obfcure

way.
Night ftcalths arc commonly drivcnin by-ivays^^
and by blind fords, unufed of any but luch like.
Spenjcr on JreJand.-

Other /^-wa)-r he himiclf b<-to )k.
Where never foot ot living wight diJ tread.
Sfen/er^

Wholly abflain, or wed

thy bounteous Lord
Allows thee choice of paths ; take no by-ivays,But giudly welcume what he doth afford j
Not grudging tliat thy luft hath bounds and
flays.

:

Herbert..

A fcivant, or a favourite, if Ik be in want, and
no

:

B y

B Y

ouk of eftcrmi It commonly
thought but a ly-vay to dofc corruption, Bacm.
This is wonderfully diierting to theunderthlndIng, thus to receive a precept, as it were, through
a ij-ivay, and to apprehend an idea that drawi a
whole train ar'ter it.
^ddif<m,

Ito other ipparrnt

Bv-WEST.

tt.

/.

Weftward;

the weft

to

B Y Z

A faying

By-woRo, n. /,

iiafhful Henry be d«pos'd j

j

% proverb.

By'aii. «./

whofe cowardice

Hath made us by-tvordi to our enemies. Sbakejp,
I knew a wife m.in, that had it for a ty-tacrj,
when he faw mon hal^n to a condufion. Stay a
little, that we may make an end the fooner. Bacon,
Wc are become a by-ivvd among the nations

SeeBiAi.

Every inordinate luft is a falfe hyaft apon men't
underftandings, which naturally draws towards athcilm.

Tiikt/nn,

,

Bye, or Bee, come immediately from the
Saxon by, bpnj, i. c. a dwelling.

for our ridiculous feuds and animofities. Addijon,

of.

Whereupon grew that
Irifti,

that

bjr-word, ufed by the
they dwelt bj-ivcft the law, which

dwelt beyond the river of the Barrow.

David n Ireland,

be his lot often to look fingular, in
tu become a by'M:id and a reproach among the men of wit and
pkafure,
Anirbury.
It will

loofe

See Bizantikb.
xantim is the true orthography.

By'zantine.

and licentious times, and

Bj'

c.

CAB

CThe

third letter of the alphabet,
has two founds ; one like A, as
7 call, clod, craft, coal, companion,
(unciform ; the other as i, as Crefar, cef
fation, cinder. It founds like k before a,
o, tt, or a confonant ; and like s before
e, i, and y.

A

Cab.

Hebrew meafure,
[ap]
». /.
containing about three pints Englilh,
or the eighteenth part of the ephah.

CABA'L. /;./ \cahale, Fr. nVap, tradition.]

^

_

The fecret fcience of the Hebrew rab-

1.

bins.

defign.

break the cahah which were forming againft her
minivers.

Addifin.

3. Intrigue ;

fomething lefs than confpi-

racy.

When each, by curs'd raij/i of women, drove

To draw th' indulgent king to partial love. Dryd.
Tff Caba'l. i;. //.

To form

\^cabaler,Ft.'\

clofe intrigues;

to intrigue; to unite

in fmall parties.
His miurnful friends, fummon'd to take their
leaves,

fin throngV abjut his couch, and fit in council
What rhofe cabaU'wg captains may defign,
I mid pievent, by being firft in adion.
Dnden.
Ca'bai.ist. h. f. [from caSal.] One
Ikilled in the traditions of the Hebrews.
Then Jove thus fpake with care and pain
:

We foim'd this name, renown 'd in rhimc.
Not thine, immortal Neufgermain
Coft ftudioui caha/ijls

m -re time.

Caba'ller. n.f. [from cabal.] He that
engages with others in clofe defigns ; an
intriguer.
Factious and rich, bold at the council board ;
But, cautious in the field, he (hunn'd the fword ;
A clofe cabailer, and tongue-valiant lord. Drydert.

or horfe aloes.

So long in fecret cabin there he held

Her captive to his fenfual defire.
Till that with timely fruit her belly fwell'd.

And bore a boy unto a favage fire.

Give thanks you have lived fo long, and make
yourfelf ready, in your cabin, for the mifchancc of

by fome cabaret
or tennis-court where his comraJes were drinking
or playing, ihould ftay with them, and drink or
play awav his money.
Bramhall againji Hobbts,
palling

fer\-ant,

the hour, if it fo happen.
Sbakffpcare,
Men may not expert the ufe of many cabins,
Ra/eigb,
and fafety at once, in the fca fervice.
The chefsboard, we fay, is in the fame place it
was, if it remain in the fame part of the cabin,
though the fhip fails all the wliile.
Lecke,

[cabus, Fr. braj^ca,

The leaves arc large, flefliy, and of a glaucous
colour i the flowers confift of four leaves, which
are fuccecded by long taper pods, containing feve-

Sittlft.

them than it is prof cr for the world to be acquaj ntjtlddifcn.

Spenfer,

A fmall chamber in a (hip.

2.

CA'BARET. n.f [French.] A tavern.
Suppofe this

a cotuge.]
A fmall room.

1.

Ca'balline. a<^'. [faW//aK/, Lat.] Belonging to a horfe ; as, caballine aloes,

near

Miller,

Ca'bbage-^^orm. B.y; An infefl.
CA'BIN. n.f [cabane, Fr. cbabin, Wellh,

3.

A cottage, or fmall houfe.
Come from marble bow'rs, many times the gay
harbour of anguiih.

The fpccies are, raWa^r. Savoy cabbtige, Bruccoli. The caulijipzver. The mufk

Unto a filly cabin, though weak, yet ftronger agginfl

Branching tree cabiagc, from the fcaColnvcrt. Perennial Alpine (o/nccrf. Per-

Neither fhould that odious cuftom be allowed,
of flaying off the green furface of the ground, to

ral round acrid feeds.

woes.

cabbage.
coaft.

foliatcd wild cabbage. Sec.

ToCa'bbage.

<i/.

4.

Ca'bSage. t;. a.
taylors.]

[a cant word among

To Heal in cutting clothes.

Your taylor, inftcad of threads, cabbagei whole

And cabin in a cave.
Fleance

is

'fcap'd ; I

had elle been perfeQ,

As broad and general as the cafing air;
But now Vm cabin'd, cribb'd, confinM, bound in.

To faucy doubts and fear.

tree.

very

common

the Caribbec idands,
where it grbws to a prodigious height. The leaves
of this tree envelope each other, fo that thofe whi' h
It

Siakefpeeri,

ToCa'bin. v. a. To confine in a cabin.

^rbuilmt.

yards of cloth.

A tent, or temporary habitation.

live in a cabin.
I'll make you feed on berries and on roots,
And feed on curds and whey, and fuck the goat.

as, the plants begin to cabbage.
?"o

is

in

:

Staiefpeare,

Ca'bined. aJ/'. [from cabin.] Belonging
to a cabin.

The nice mom, on the Indian ftecp.
From her cabin'd loophole peep.

are inclofcd, being deprived of the air, are blanch-

ed; which is the part the inhabitants cut for plaits
for hats, and the young dioots are pickled
but
wlicnever tliis part is cut out, the trees arc dc-

Sidney,

Some of green b-nighs their (icndcr cabins frame.
Some lodged were Tortnfa's flreirts about. Fairfax,
To Ca'bik. f. ff. [from the noun.] To

To form ahead;

n.

•

cover their cabins, or mak.*^ up their dirches. Swift,.

Miiler.

Cole cabbage, and coleworts, are foft and demulcent, without any acidity; the jelly or juice of
red cabbage, baked in an oven, and mixed with
honey, is an excellent perioral, yirbutb. cnjJl.r..

I

an occult meaning.
The letters arc caialliflieal, and carry more !n
with.

fo that there are very few trees left remaining

plantations.

SpeHator.

Ca'bbage tree.b./ a fpecies of/a/»»-

Caballi'stical. 7 fl<^. [from cabal.]
Caballi'stick. J Something that has

(<l

ftroyed ; nor do they rife again from the old roots |

in pronouncing of which the whole fecret confifted.

A body of men united in fome clofe
A cabal differs from a party, as CA'BBAGE.
n.f
fenu from many.
Lat.] A plant.
She often intcrpofed her royal authority, to

2.

firft

CAB

CAB
He taught him to repeat two cabaliijikk words,

Milun,

CABINET, n.f [cabinet, Fr.]
A dofet a fmall room.
I .

;

At

.

. ..

Cachinna'tion.

At botTi come'^f the farther fide, let there be
two delicate or rich cabinets, daintily pared, richly
hanged, glazed with cryftalline glaft, and a rich

Hearken awhile in thy green tah'iret.

I.

You began In the cabinet what yoa afterwarih
pradlifed in the camp.

A fet of bores or drawers for cnriofi.

He loves the mayfly, which is bred of the codworm, ot caddis; and thefe make the trout bold

Nlc grinned,

A cabinet to vulgar eyes.

and laughed,

till

he was

A fowl that cackles.
2. A telltale
a tatler.
1

A

Cacoch y'mical. J «i^'. [from cacochyCacochv'mick. 5 "y-l Having the
humours corrupted.

A feleil number of privy counfellors

It will prove very

advantageous, if only caco-

thytnick, to clarify his blood with a laxative.

foppofed to be particularly trulled.

Harvey on Cnjumftions.

From the highcft to the lowed it is univerfally

If the body be eacechyrnical, the tumours are apt
venomous and malignant

from the cabinet -amncil to the nurfery.

drawers or boxes.
The root of an old white thorn will mike very
fo that they would be of

weak

fibres

;

for

the

veflels,

Vet lives qpr pilot ftill *

which lie out of the road of circulation,
let grofs humours pafs, which could not,
if the vttfels had their due degree of

fo many beodings

ftridlure.

Shakejftare.
The length of the caUi is the life of the ihip in
all excremitics \ and the reafon is, bcciule it nukes

and waves, as the /hip, riding
at that length, is not able to ftretch it ; and nothing breaks tlut is not ftretched.
KaUigb.
The cabia crack ; the failors fearful cries
Afcendj and fable night involves the flcies. Dr^d.

The ctidcncy of one line mull be a rule to that
of tlie next;
4.

Hollow rocks retain

Sea-faring men, o'crwatcli'd.
Milion.
He hath a confuted remembrance of words lince
he left the univcrfity ; he hath lolt half their

meaning, and puta them together with no regard,
Swijit

except to their cadence,

5.

In horfemanftiip.
Cadence is an equal meafure or proportion which
a h irfe obfcrves in all his motions, when he iv
thoroughly managed.
Farrier's Dilh

found of words.

Did.

The tone or found.
The found of bluft'ring winds, which al! nightlong
Had rous'd the fca, now with hoarfe cadence lull

monious liery nature, fets the blood, upoa the leaft
Harvey.
caccch-jmy, into an orgafmus.

A bad

found of the former muft
DtyitK.

as the

flids gently into that \vhioh follows,

Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Caco'phokv. ». /. [xajttfwia.]

Crajh^w*

The words, the verlification, and all the other

Strong beer, a liquor that attributes the half of
its ill qualities to the hops, confifting of an acri-

in

O let them fall

elegancies of found, as cadences, and turns of words
upon the thought, perform exai5lly the fame office
both in dramatick and cpick poetry.
Dryden.

difcolorations of the ftin, are figns of
lateral

I

The flow of verfes, or periods.

3.

ftate, to what the pbyficians call by a
general name of a cacochymy. Spots, and

The cable broke, the holding anchor loit.
And half our Tailors fwallow'd in the'flood.

ftips.

Sententious /h.ow'rs

Their cadence is rhetorical.

depravation of the humours from a found

Ca'bi.e. n,/. [cabj, Welfh ; cahel, Dutch.]
The great rope of a fliip to which the
anchor is faHened.
What though the maft be now blown overboard.

Small ropes ufed

agreement with the figure in rhetorick, which they
call prater expeifatumj for there is a plcafure even
in being deceived.
Bacon.
There be words not made with lung^,

CACOCHY'MY. «. / [xaxoxt^^ia.] A

great ufe for the cabinet-makeri, as well as the
turners and others.
Mortimi-r.

». f.

Now was tlie fun in weftern cadence low
From noon ; and gentle airs, dxic at their hours.
To fan the earth, now vvak'd.
Milton,
2. The fall of the voice ; fometimes the
general modulation of the voice.
The Hiding, in the clofe or cadence, hath an

The ancient writers diftinguifhed putrid fevers,
by putrefaftion of blood, choif r, melancholy, and
phlegm j and this is to be explained by an e/Tervefcence happening in a particular cacocbymical
bloQd.
FUyer on the Humours.

-'

*•

Fall ; ftate of finking ; decline.

1

IViJeinan.

abfcefles,

Ca'binet-maker. n. /. [from cabinet
and maie.] One that makes imaU nice

Shalrfpeare,

Soon as thy liquor from the narrow cells
Of clofe prefs'd hulks is freed, thou muft refrain
Thy thirlly foul ; let none perfuadc to broach
Thy thick, unwholefome, undigefted cades. Philips^

to degenerate into very

Gay to S'Ufiff,

A barrel.

termed of our fuppofel
father.^— Or rather of ftealing a cade of her.
fo

•'

;

The doftrine of Italy, and practice of France,
in fome kings times, hath introduced ctbinacouncih.
Bacon.

To

Cade- WORM. «./ The fame with caddis.
Ca;dence.7
[cadence, Vr.}
Ca dency. J

Ca'ckle R. ti. /. \fTom cackle.^

council held in a private manner,
with unufual privacy and confidence.

[cadus, Lat.]

We John Cade,

rings.

To talk idly.

2.

Ca'einet-council. n.f.

-Ca'burns.

Cade. n.f.

Arbuthmt,

Tlie filver goofe bcloie the Ihining gate

tailor,

Sii/iner,

caiieler,

bred at home.
To Cade. f. a. [from the noun.]

There flew, and by her r«W<fav'd thClUte. Dryd.

mnft needs

by

Fr. an old word, which
fignifies to breed up tenderly.] Tamej
foft ; delicate ; as, a cade lamb, a lamb

from

Ca'ckle. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. The voice of a goofe or fowl.

We cannot dtfcourfe of the fecret, but by deopen a cabinet of myrtcrics.

cackled,

[It is deduced,

breed up in foftnefs.

about the room.

Thy bread hath ever been the cabinet.
Where 1 have locked nny fccrets.
Dcvham,
fcribiog our duty j but fo much duty

Diyden.

ffalmn's Angler.

and luily.

Cade. at^J.

like to kill himfelf, and fell a frilking and dancing

Stvift,

Any place in which things of value are
hidden.

combs;

cafe of ftraw.

To laugh; to giggle.

3.

A kind of worm or grub found in a

The nightingale, if flie ihould fing by day.

Of thofe diftrafled dam Ws in the yard.

To make it feem, in this difguife,

fine boxes and

Shakejpeare.

2.

To make a noife as a goofe.

The trembling widow, and her daughters twain.
This woeful cackling cry with honour heard

BcnyoKfoii.
In vain the worlcman ihew'd his wit.
With rings and hinges counterfeit.

read ;

He hath ribbons of all the colours of the rainbow ; inkles, caddifet, cambricks, lawns ; why, he
luigs them over as if they were gods and godde JTes.

hen.

a private box.

Might love the treafure iot the cahiiui

t.

A kind of tape or ribbon.

1

And lave the ftate, by cackling to the tories. Psfe.
z. Sometimes it is ufed for the noife of a

Drydeti.

Who fee^ a foul in fuch a body fet,

I.

Diil.

When every goofe is cackling, would be thought
No better a mufician than the wren. Shakejfeare.
Or rob the Roman geefe of all their glories.

are held.

5.

\_cachinnatio,

».

To CA'CKLE. 'V. n. \kaeckelen, Dutch.]

A hut or fmall uoufe.

ties ;

f.

loud laughter.

Ca'ckerel. n. /. a fi(h, faid to make
thofe who eat it laxative.

The laurel fong of careful Colinct.
Sptnfer,
3. A private room in which confultations

4.

A

Lat.]

cupola in the midft, and all Khei elegancy that
Bacon.
may be thought on.

Z.

CAD

CAD

C A C
-

!

Thcfe things lliall lie by,
you Qoroc to carp
See Chocolate nut.
at them, and alter rhimcs, grammar, triplets, and
Ca'dent. adj. Icade/ts, Lat.] Falling
Cache'ctical. ) ai/>. [from cachexy.^
cat opboniei of all kinds.
J^opc
Sivifi,
down.
Cache'ctick. \ Having an ill habit 7« Cacu'mis ATE. 1/. a. [(-«(</«/«», Iwat.]
Cade't. If. /. [cadef, Fr. pronounced
of body ; (hewing an ill habit.
make
fliarp
or
pyramidal.
Di^.
To
(Wf.
till

Ca'cao.

t'j

Young and florid bl'jud, racher than vapid and
tad iHkal.
ArbMbnet on A r.

The crude chyle (wims inthebiood, and .ifpt.'ars,
as milk in the blood, of fome perfons who aie la-

ihiBic.

Filler.

CACHF/XY. «./, [xaxAict.-] A general
word to exprefs a great variety oi' fymptoms moft commonly it denotes Ibch a
:

dillemperature of the humours, as hinders nutrition, and weakens the vital

and aoiroa) fundli&ns ; proceeding from
weaknefs of the fibres, and an abufe ot
the non-naturals, and oticn from fevere
acute dift'.mpers.

Vol. I.

Arhuibnot mi Diet.

1

CADA'vExous.flrf)'. [cacfevtr, Lat.] Having the appearance of a dead carcals ;
hiiving the qualities of a dead earcais.
in vain. do they fcruple to approach the ^ciA,
wbulivingly arc cad.ivertiui, for tear of any outward
pollution, whofc temper pollutes ihemrelvrs.
Bro-wni yiitgar Errcurs.

The urine, long detained in the bladder, as well
asglal<,will grow red, foc6i, cadavrous, and alkaline.

The cafe is the fame with the (^agnant waters

of hydr0pic.1l perfons.

Arbufbnur t.tt Alimrnrs.

Ca'ddis. n,/. [This word is ufed in Erie

]

The younger brother,
2. The youngeft brother.
1

Jofepli was the yuungell of the two^fe, fttj/i
David the eleventh foo, and the cadet of Jelfe.

Brctvn's Vulgcr Krrottrt.

3.

A voluntier in the armj', who fervcs in
expeftation of a commiffioa.
A ftraw worm.
dis.

Ca'dew. It./.

See Cad-

Di^.

Ca'dger. n.f. [from cadge, or ca^c, a.
poKter.]
A huckller one who brings
;

eggs,

and poultry, from

for the variegated clothes of tlie liigh-

butter,

landers.]

country to market.

ik

tli».

CJ'DIs.

CJ'DI.

A magiflrate among tlie

x. /.

C A L

C A L

C A I

irtave in Englilh,

and fur in Latin"} fo

Miferable ; involved in diArefi ; opunhappy
with infelicity ;
wretched : applied to men.
This it a gracious provision God Almighty batk

1.

preficd

certainly does flavery deftroy virtue.

Turks, whofe office ieems nearly to
anfwer to that of a jullice of ]>eace.
Cadi'llack. tt./. A fort of pear.
CJETCUS. tt. r. [Lat] A wind from

Homer,

made

in favour of the neceOitous and ealamitous ;
the Date of fome, in this life, being fo extremely

A flavc and a fcoandrel are Cgnified by
the fame words in many languages.] A

the north-eaft.

mean villain

Now, from the northi

;

a defpicable knave :

often implies a mixture of wickednefs
and mifery.

Barras and Cai'uu, and Argcltcs l»ud.
And ThracUs, rend the woods, and leas upturn.

wretched and deplorable, if compared with otiiers.

it

Full of mifery ; diflrefsful : applied to
external circumftances.
Whatrat'onuVcui eii'eds thcairofthiscity wrought

2.

V'Ae- caitiff! vaflal of dread and dcffair,

See Cesarian.

C^sa'rean.

Unworthy of the common breathed air

*l'is not impoiiiblc

But one, the wicked'ft caitiff ou the ground,

CA'FTJN. n./. [Perfick.] A Perfian or

May fecm as Ihy, as grave, as juITpas abfolute.
As Angclo.
Shakejfeare.
.
The wretched caitiff, all alone.
As he believ'd, began to moan.
And tell his ftory to himfelf.
Iludibras.
CAKE. n.f. [cuc/j, Teutonick.]
1. A kind of delicate bread.
You muft be feeing chriftenings do you look

Turkifh veft or garment.

Cac. n. /. A barrel, or wooden veflel,
five gallons.

Some-

CAGE. n./. [^cage, Fr. from ca-vca, Lat.]
An inclofurc of twigs or wire, in which

1.

!

for ale and caiM here, you rude rafcals ? Sbatejp,
cake is dough, but I'll in among the reft,

birds are kept.

foner,

Out of hope of all but my ftiare of the (t»&. Stak.
The difmal day was come ; the prisfts prepare
Their leaven'd cat:s, and fillets for my hair. Dryd.
2.

SbakeJ'peare.

Though flaves, like birds that fing not in a cage.
They loft their genius, and poetick rage j
Homers again and Pindars may be found.
H'alltr.

3.

Were forted well, with lumps of amber laid between.
Dryden,
a beall, bird, or hSk, by the cagt,
or court-yard, or cifiem, wherein it was kept.

Watts en the MinJ.

The reafon why fo few marriages aie happy, is,
becaufe young ladies fpend their time in making
Sivift.
nets, not in making c'agti.

2. A.place for wild beafts, inclofed with
pallifadoes.

A prifon for petty malefaftors.

To Cage. 'v. a. [from the noun.] To in-

Concreted matter ; coagulated matter.
Then when the fleecy Jkies new cloath tlie wgod.
And cakis of ruftling ice come rolling down the
Drydtn.

the noun.]
harden, as dough in the oven.

To

1 his burning matter, as it funk very leifurcly,
had time to cake together, and form the bottom,
which covers the mouth of that dreadful vault that
Addijm on Italy.
lies underneath it.
This is that very Mab,
That plats the manes of horfes in the night.

And cakes the clflucks in foul flutcilh hairs. Stak.
He rins'd the wound.
And walh'd away the ftrings and dotted blood.
Addifin.

Calaba'sh Tree,

Sits down, and fnorcs, cag^d in his balkec-chair.

Dounc.

CJI'MAN. «. /. The American name of
a crocodile.
[cageoller, Fr.]

To

a low word.
Thought he, 'tis no mean part of civil

flatter ; to footh ; to coax :

and pities him takes up his quarrel, fliakes his
head at it, clafps his hand upon his breaft, ind
then proffts and protefts.
L'Eflrangr.
My tongue that wanted to cajolt
Ryrr.tr.
I try'd, but not a word would troll.
:

Cajo'l£r.»./ [fromf<j/o/<r.] Aflatterer;
a wheedler.

Cajo'lery. n.f. [cajolerie, Fr.] Flattery.

CJ'ISSON. n.f. [French.]

A cheft of bombs or powder, laid in
the enemy's way, to be fired at their

approach.

A wooden cafe in which the piers of
bridges are built within the water.

thirty feet in the Well Indies, where they grow naturally. The fliells areufed by the negroes for cups,

ing a hole in the Ihell, and putting in fmall ftones,
Miller.
with which they make a (ore of rattle.

Calama'nco. »./ [a word derived, proby fome accident, from calamanctts, Lat. which, in the middle ages, fig-

balply

A

kind of woollen lluiF.
nified a hat.]
He was of a bulk and ftature larger than ordinary, had a red coat, flung opea to fliew a cala•
tatler.
manco waiftcoat.

Ca'lamine, or Lapis Calaminaris. n, J.

1.

;

as

Misfortune; caufe of mifery ; diftrefs..

not get out of the ftalk.
2.

Mifery ;

Baton,

diftrefs.

This infinite ffl/f7w//)' (hall caufe

To human life, and houlhouid peace confound.
Milteti,

From adverfe Ihores in fafety let her hear
Foreign calamity, and diftant war;
Of which, great heav'n, let her no portioo.bear.
Prior,

CA'LAMUS, n. f. [Lat.] A fort of reed
or fweet-fcented wood, mentioned in
fcripture with the other ingreUienta of
the facred perfumes. It is a knotty root,
reddifti without, and white within, which
puts forth long and narrow leaves, anti
brought from the Indies. The prophets
fpeak of it as a foreign commodity of
great value.
Thefe Aveet reeds have
no fmell when they are green, but when
they are dry only.
Their form differs
not from other reeds, and their fmcll is
perceived upon entering the marfhes.
Cabuet,

Take thou alfo unto thee principal fpices of gure
myrrh, of fweet cinnamon, and of fweet calamus.
Exodus, XXX. ij.

Cala'sh. »./ [caUche,'Fi.'\ Afmallcapriage of pleafure.
Daniel, a fprightly fwain, that os'd to flafli

The vig'rous fteeds, that drew his lord's calajh.
King.

The ancients ufed calajhes, the figures of feveril
of them being to be feen on ancient monuments.
They are very fimplc, light, and drove by the traveller himfelf.

yiriutlnst en Coins,

Ca'lceated. at//, \_calceatus, Lat.] Shod ;
fitted with flioes.

A kind of foflile bituminous earth, which, CJLCEDO'NIUS. n.f, [Lat.] A kind of
being mixed with copper, changes

it

into brafs.
\Ve muft not omit thofe, which, though not of
fo much beauty, yet aie of greater ufe,

Lccke,

C a'l A M N T »./. \_calamintha, Lat.] The
I

precious ftone.
Calcedonius is of the agate kind,

.

name of a plant.
Cala'mitous, aJj. [cahmilo/us, Lat.]

and of a mifty

grey, clouded with blue, or with purple.

«z. load-

ftones, whetftones of all kinds, limeftoucs, cala-

mine, or lapi^ calaminaris,

Cai'tiff. n.f. [cattivo, Ital. a flave
-whence it came to fignify a bad man,
with feme implication of m«annefs i

It hath a flower confifting of one leaf, divided at
the brim into feveral parts ; from whofe cup rifes
the pointai, in the hinder part of the flower; which
afterwards becomes a flc/hy fruit, having an-hard
They rife to the height of twenty-five or
fliell.

as alfo for making inftruments of mufic, by mak-

Hujiiras.
State prudence, to cajtli the deril.
The one affronts him, while the other cajo/ts

diftrefs.

countries common ; infomuch as the word calamity
was firft derived from calamus, when the corn could

That cak'd within.

dofe in a cage.
He fwoln, and pamper'd with high fare.

Mifery ;

high ; by which it is fometimes diltinguifhed from a loaf.

A man recurs to our fancy, by remembering To Cake. f. n. [from

To CAJO'LE. T. a.

tous."]

C.-^LA'MITY. n.J. [calamitas, Lat.]
Another ill accident i.- drought, and the fpindlingofthc corn, which with us is rare, but in hotter

flood.

liis garment ;

3

Cala'mitousness. n, /. [frdm calanii-

Any thing of a form rather flat than

dead tree, that hath gotten no name, but it is large,
and of a cheftnut colour, and hard and pithyi
SaccK^s Natural Uijhry,

And parrots, imitating human tongue,
And tinging birds in lilver cagei hung;
And ev'ry fragrant flow'r, and od'rous green.

2,

'

There is a cake that groweth upon the fide of a

And his great actions with their numbers crown'd.

1.

Harvey
of the platuc.
Ctnfumftisw
Stria' neceflity
Subdues me, and calamitcus conftraint*!
I.eft un m]r head both fin and puniihment,
However infupportable, be all
Devolv'd.
Atiliin,
Much rather I (hall chufe
To live the pooreft in my tribe, than richeft,
Miltm,
And be in that alamiicus prifon left.
In this fad and calamitous condition, deliverjneefrom an opprelfour would have even revived them.
Swift,

My

See whether a cag.- can pleafe a bird ? or wheSuiviy.
ther a dog grow not fiercer with tying ?
He taught me how to Icaow a man in love ; iji
which cage of ru/hes, 1 am Aire you are not a pri-

3.

m

And doll not unto death thyfelf prepare ? Sfaijcr.

by which a tliort fyllable after a
complete foot is made long.
try,

containing four or
times keg.

upon us the laft year, you may read in my difcourC;

!

Why Kvcft thou, dead dog, a longer day.

C^SU'RJ. IK/. [Lat.] A figur-e in poe-

iVccdzuard on Frffls,

To Ca'i.cinate.

See 9r« Calcine.

In hardening, by baking without melting, the
heat hath thefe degrees ; firft, it indurateth, then
maketh fragile, and Mly it doth caldnmie.

Bacons Natural HiJ}ory,

Calcina'tion,
.:

.

;

.

.

;

;

C A L

c A n

C A L

Calcina'tion. n.f. [from calcine', cal-

rather, which changcth celculathn Into eafy com-

C a'l E K D R E R n.f. [from calender. ] The

putation.
Holder on Time.
Such a management of
2. A reckoning ; therefult of arithmetical
bodies by fire, as renders them reducible
operation.
to powder ; wherefore it is called chyIt' then their calcmlathn be true,
for fa they
This is the next
mical puIvcriza*'on.
reciion.
Hooker.
degree of the power of fire beyond that
Being diflerent from calculatioin of the ancients,
their obfervations confirm not ours.
of fufion for when fafion is longer conBrciuns Vulgar Errours.
tinued, not only the more fubtile parCalcula'tor. »./ [from calculate.] A
ticles of the body itfelf fly off, but the
computer ; a reckoner.
particles of fire likewife infinuate them[from calculate.]
felves iu fuch multitudes, and are fo Ca'lculatory. aelj.
Belonging to calculation.
blended through its whole fubftance,
that the fluidity, firft caufed by the fire, Ca'lcule. It. /. [calculus, Lat.] Reckoning ; compute obfolete.
<an no longer lubfift. From this union
The general calcule, which was made in the lal
arifes a third kind of body, which, being

.

perfon who calenders.

cination, Fr.]

Ca'lends. n.f.
no fngttlar.]

And for that lethargy was there no cure.
But to be call into a calerture.
Denbam^
So, by a calenture milled.

The mariner with rapture fees.

Divers refidcnces of bodies are thrown a«.iy, as
foon as the diftillation or calcinatkn ol ihe hody
Bv/le,
that yielderh them is ended.
This maybe eSeSed, but not without tcakaathn, or reducing it by art into a fubtle powder.

Ca'lculous. J Stony; gritty.
The volatile f<ilt of urine will coagulate fpirits
of whie ; and thus, perhaps, the ftones, or calcu* leje concretions in the kidney or bladder, may be
produced.
Brmin's Vulgar Er/rc-jn.
I have found, by opening the kidneys of a calcuhui perfon, that the ftone is formed earlier than
I havi: fuggefled.
Sharp.

calidus, Lat.]

The cok hach about four years of growth ; ani
Bacon's Nat. Hi/lory,
Acofta tells us of a fowl in Peru, called condorc,
which will kill and eat up a whole calf at a time.
fVilkirs.

Ah, Blouzetind

To bum in the fire to a calx, or friable
See Calcination.
The folids feetn to be earth, bound together with

The limbs, yet trembling, in the catdroni boil
Some on the fire the reeking entrails broil.

fonoe oil ; for if a bone be calcimd, fo as the lead
force will crumble it, being immerfed in oil, it

Dryden'i ^ne!d.
In the late eruptions, this great hallow was lik«
a vaft caldron, filled with glowing and melted matter, which, as it boiled over in any part, ran down
the fides of the mountain.
AJdiJcn,

Arbuthtut on Aliminti.

Fiery difputcs that union have eah'm'd,
Almoft as many mind; as men we find. Denbam.

Gay,
2.

render the calves of our lips.
3.

To CA'LCULATE. -v.

[calcuUr. Fr.
from calculus, Lat. a little ftone or bead,
a.

;

When a child haps to be got.
That after proves an ideot

ufed in operations of numbers.]

To compute; to reckon

1.

:

as,

he cal-

culatfj his expences.

To compute the fituation of the pla-

2.

nets at any certain time.
A conning man did calculate my birth,
And told me, that by water I (hould die.
Siake/feare'i Henry VI.

?

Shaktffeare.

Who were there then in the world, to obferve the
births of thofe fird men, and calculate their nativities, 3i

J.

they fprawled out of ditches >

To adjuft

;

to projeft for

Bentlty.

any certain

end.

The reafonablenefs of religion clearly appears,
at it tends fodire^ly to thehappinefsof men, and
is, upon all accounts, calculated for our benefit.
rUlotfin.

To Ca'i-culate. -v. It. To make a comCai.cui.a'tion. n./. [from calculate."]
A prafkice, or manner of reckoning ; the
I
art of numbering.
.

Cypher, that gieat friend to calculalkn i

or

Says, that the fairy left the oaf,

AnJ took away the other.

[from cahfacio,

adj.

4.

Dr.ayton's NympHd.

The thick, plump, bulbous part of the
leg.

Lat.] That which heats.

\_kalf,

Dutch.]

To

into her legs I'd have love's ilTues fall.
And all her calf'xsno a gouty fmall.
Suckling.

Cryftal will caltfy unto eleflricity; that is, a
power to attrafl ftraws, or light bodies, and convert
the needle, freely placed. Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Ca'liber. ?/./. [calibre,?!.] The bore;
the diameter of the barrel of a gun ;

To CA'LEFY.

grow hot ;

rv.

n.

{calefio,

Lat.]

to be heated.

Thei<j//"of that leg '»liftcred. IVifeman' s Surgery,

To make hot.
Ca'lendar. n.f. [calendarium, Lat.]

the diameter of a bullet.

A C a'l ICE. n.f. [calix, Lat.] A cup; a

of the year, in which the
months, and ftated times, are marked,
as feftivals and holidays.
What hath this day deferv'd ? what hath It done,

regifler

That it in golden letter fhould be fet
Siaheffcare's King "John.
compute from calendars differing from one
another j the compute of the one anticipating that

We

of the other.
Bronvti.
Curs'd be the day when firft I did appear
Let it be blotted from the calendar.
Left it pollute the month !

To CA'LENDER.

To

Drydcn's Fables.

[calendar, Fr.
drefs cloth; to lay the
-v.

a.

nap of cloth fmooth.

Ca'lender. w. /

[from the verb.]

Taylor.

Ca'hco. n. f. [from Calccut in India.]
An Indian iluff made of cotton ; fometimes llained with gay and beautiful colours.
/
I wear the

hoop petticoat, and am all in calicoes,
Addvtn's Spi&ator.
Ca'lid. adj. [calidus, La.t.] Hot; burn-

when the fineft are in filks.

ing ; fervent.

Cai.i'dity. n.f. [from cal/d.] Heat.
Ice will dilTolve in any way of heat 5 for it will

A

hot prefs ; a prefs in which clothiers

fmooth their dotii.

chalice.
There is a natural analogy between the ablution
of the body and the purification of the foul ; between eating the holy bread and drinking the facred calice, and a participation of the body and
blood of Chrift.

Among the high tides, in the calendar ?

Skinner.]

putation.

Some filly doatlng brainlefs calf.
That underftands things by the half.

ing.

To Ca'lefy. t. a.

Why all thefe fires, why all thefe gliding ghofts,
Why old men, fools, and children calculati.
Why all thofc things change from their ordinance

When folk perceive it tliriveth not.

Calefa'ctive./j/^. [front f«/c/«f/o, Lat.]
That which makes any thing hoc ; heat-

Calefa'ctory.

Hofea, xiv. 2.

By way of contempt and reproach, applied to a human being
a dolt ; a ftupid wretch.

1

without lofing its tranfparency, and, in a very ftrong
heat, calc'mirg without fufion.
NtwKm'i Opticki.

Calves of the lips, mentioned by Hofea,
fignify facrifices of praife and prayers,
which the captives of Babylon addreffed
to God, being no longer in a condition
to offer facrifices in his temple. Calmef,
Turn to the Lord, and {iy unto lilm, Take away
ail iniquity, and receive us giacioufly.
fo will we

Caleche. The fame with Calash.
To Calci'ne. -v. It. To become a calx by Cale fa'ct ION. n./ [from fa/^n'o,Lat.]
The aft of heating any thing.
heat.
This chrydal is a pellucid fiflile Hone, clear 2. The ftate of being heated.
ai water, and without colour, enduring a red beat

I love thee more by half

A

fnbllance.

To burn up.

!

Than docs their lawns, or cows the new-fall'n calf.

[chauUron, Fr. from

pot ; a boiler; a kettle.
In the midft of all
There placed was a caldron wide and tall.
Upon a mighty furnace, burning hot. Fairy Sveen.
Some drip the Ikiii ; fome portion out the fpoilj

[calciner, Fr. from

ialf, Dutch.]

The young of a cow.
fo the fawn, and fo the calf.

the bladder.

calx, Lat.]

will grow firm again.

Saxon ;
1.

CjTLCVLUS. n.f. [Latin.] The ftone in

veiTel ufed in calcination.

2.

[cealp,

7 aJJ. [from calculus, Lat.]

Calci'n ATOnv. f!./. [from calcinate.} A Ca'ldron. n.f.

1

Sitilft,

Calf. n.f. calves in the flural,

Hoiuers Vocal Foreji.

Brown's /''a/gar Mmurs.

To CALd'NE. -V. a.

On the fmooth ocean's azure bed,
Enamell'd fields, and verdant trees :
Wit]\ eager hafte he longs to rove
In that fantaftic fcene, and thinks
It muft be fome enchanted grove ;
And in he leaps, and down he finks.

perambulation, exceeded eight millions.

.

It

diftemper peculiar to failors in hot climates ; wherein they imagine the fea
to be green fields, and will throw themfelves into it.
^iitcy.

:

C a'l c u r.o s E

Lat.

day of evtry

firll

month among the Romans.
Ca'lenture. n.f. [from caleo, Lat.] A

;

very porous and brittle, is eafily reduced"
to powder ; for, the fire having penetrated every where into the pores oi the
body, the particles are both hindered
from mutual contact, and divided into
^incy.
minute atoms.

has

[calendee,

The

d;(r)ive

with

fire,

it

will

collr<nute

in water, or

warm oil ; nor doth it only fubmit into an aduai
heat, but not endure the potential cal'dity of m^ny
Waters.

Kk 2

Brovit't Vulg. r Ei-nuirs.

C a'l IF.

;

C A L

_

Among them he a fpirit of phrcnfy fcnt,

JJuppa'i Rule' It Dertrien.
Such /lae employments our whole days divide j
The faiutatioii! uf the morning tide
Call up the fon ; thofe eiiVed, to the hall
wait the piitron, bear the lawyers bawl. Dryd,
Then by confeal abftain fiom farther toil',

the Saracens, who were veiled with abfoluie power in afFairs both religious and

Who hurt their minds.
And urg'd you on, with mad dcft.-e.

To call in hafte/tr their deftrojer.

We

civil.

Camca'tioi*. «. / [from caligo, Lat.

Call iff tlx i\ip, anti gather up the fpoils.

to be dark.] Darknefs ; c]oudinei:>.
InAead of a diniinution, or impcrfefi viAoni in

we atfirra an abolition, or tot^l |>rivation j inltead of caii^atkn, or dimnefs, we conclude a cecity, or brmdncfs.
Hrvwn.

v.'c

domef^ic affair of great imporiancc.
i'Efehylushas a tragedy intitled Perfa, in which
tlie &ade of Darius is called up.

Brmmc on lie OdyJJey.
The paflions call a^aay the thoughts, with in-

tiful writing.

This laqgtt>|e i( incapable of eiligrafhy.

Ca'lipers. See Callipers.
Ca'liver.w./. [ from calibtr. ] A handgun ; a harquebufe ; an old mulket.

them.

Sbakcffcare'! Httiry IV.
:

ufed in botany ; as, the calix of a. flower.

The king had fent for the earl to return home,

with which leaks are ilopped ; or from

for all his

Sax. the keel. Skinner.'^ To ftop
the leaks of a (hip.
There is a great errour committed in the man-

mifcarriages.

Clarend-n,

ca;l*.

Once a day, cfpecially in the early years of life
and lludy, call yourfelves to an accuunc, what new
ideas, what new propofition or truth, you have

ner of ea/king hi« majefty's Yhips) which being
done with rotten oakum, is tiie caufe they are
iUieigb's BJ/iyi.

gained.

In that day did tlie Lord Cod of hoSs call to
weeping, and to mourning, and to baldnefs, and
to girding with fackcloth.
Ifaiab, xxii. ii.

So here fome pick out bullets from the fide ;

Some drive old oakum through each feam and rift
Their left hand docs the calking iron guide.
The rattling mallet wich the right they lift. Dryd.
"l

the fliips of the
fea, with their mariners, were in thee to occupy

n. f.

7.

Ezei. xxvii. 9.

h term in painting,

ufed where the backfide is covered with
Mack lead, or red chalk, and the lines
traced through on a waxed plate, wall,
or other matter, by paffing lightly over
each ftroke of the defign with a point,
which leaves an impreflion of the colour
Chambers,
on the plate or wall.

To CALL. V. a. [calo, Lat. holder, Danifh.]

To name

Paul, a fervant of Jefus Chrift, called to be an
apoftle, fcparateduntothegofpelofOod.

all

thy merchandize.

To invoke

to denominate.

Rom. i. i.

Why came not the flave back to me when

I

Sbaktjfure' s King Lear.
Are you ealfd forth from out a world of men,
To flay the innocent ? Sbakejptare's Richard III.
Lodronius, that famous captain, was called up,
and told by his fervaots that the general was fled.
Knallet'i Hifltry.

Or call mp him that left half told

The ftory of Cambufcan bold.

When their fovereign's quarrel calli 'em cut.
His foes to mortal combat they defy.
Drydm't Virgil,

To Call. v. n,

To Hop without intention of flaying.
This meaning probably rofe from the
cuilom of denoting one's prefence at the
door by a call ; but it is now ufed with
great latitude. This fenfe is well enough
preferved by the particles on or at ; but
IS forgotten, and the expreffion made
barbarous, by ///.

1.

To make a fliort vifit.

2.

Miltcn.

DtuAkennefs culli iff the watchmen from their
towers ; and then evils proceed from a loolc heart,
tajhii Holj Living.
and an untied tongue,

poffible, 1 firft of all called is at St. James's.

Ctnolcy,

friends ;

tallid him ?

jiddifcni Speffator.

We called in at Morge, wh«rc there
ficial port.

.

13. To call for.
to claim.

To deiQaad

4.

You fee Uow men of merit arc fought after

upon

call

my namo,

thrice beat your

went to the Ihores, and calling thrice on their
names, raifed a cenotaph, or empty monument,
to their memories.
Broome un the OdyjTey.

Madam, his majefty doth call fir yon,
I^bakcfpeare.

To repeat folemnly.

Thrice

And hail me thrice to cverlafting reft.
Dryjtn,
The Athenians, when they loil any men at fea,

to require ;

Andyor your grace, and you, my noble lord.

To call on.
bread,

Ifaiab, xxxi. a.
;

To folicit for a favour, or

I would be loth to pay him before his day;
what need 1 be fo forward with him, that calls nor
on me ?
Sh^k-fpcare's Henry IV.

not call itick liis words ; but will arifc againll tlic
houfe of the evil doers ; and againft the help of

them that work iniquity.

an arti-

a debt.

Stvift to Pope,

To call back. To revoke ; to retradl.
He alfo is wife, and will bring evil, and will

is

Attilifon OH Italy.

To call on.

3.

whom I can call names, if they do not

fpeak loud enough.

12.

To challenge; to fum-

which flie did for fome time after, when he heard
no more of her.
Temple.
That I might begin as near the fountain-head as

defend my reputation, or bid farewel to your good
Shaiefpearr.

To call out.

to put in adion ; to bring

"IBe not amazed ; call all your fenfes to you ;
ilt for erer.

to

mon to light.

See Diiinyfius Homer's thoughts vc line.

n

;

And, as you go, call on my brother Quintus,
And pray him, with the tribunes, to coae to me.
Ben JnfMU
He ordered her to call at his houfe once a-week,

And call new beauties forth from ev'ry line. Pope,
To ftigmatize with fome opprobrious
denomination.
Deafnefs unqualifies men for all company, except

place, thing, or perfon. It is often ufed
with local panicles, as up, tUnun, in, out,

Swif'i.

To fummon together

To call in.

;

He fwclls with angry pride,
And calli forth all hiisfpots on every fide.

To furamon, or invite, to or from any

it

higher

mufter-roll.
18.

into view.

Gtncfn, i. 5.

at a

Sbakefptartt

to publilh.
Nor ballad-finger, pUcM above the crowd,
Sings with a note fo ihrilling, fwtet, and lo'id,
Nor parifh clerk, who calls the pfalm fo clear. Goy.
;

anew,

it

He fears my fubjeSs loyalty.

that lord perplexed their counfets and
inconvenient objeftions in law, the

authority of the lord MancheAer,whahad trod the
Clarendon.
fame paths, was ftill called upon.

To excite

money, after tliey have funk

their

And now muft call in ftrangers. DenhanCs Sophy.
To read aloud a lift or
1 7. To call over.

;

To proclaim

in

The heat is paft, follow no farther now

defigns with

9.

any thing more cud and opprelTive

Call in the powers, good coulin Wellmoreland.

2 Cor, i. 23.

When

once, and

invite.

To appeal to.

8.

'

And God called the light day, and the darknefs he called night.

16.

to appeal to.
I call God for a record upon my foul, that, to
fpare you, I came not as yet unto Corinth.

10.
;

calling

In the theological fenfe, to infpire with
ardours of piety, or to fummpn into the
church.

6.

[ixom calk. The workman that (lops the leaks of a fhip.
The ancients of Gebal, and the wife men theref.

IVatii.

To fummon by command.

5.

at

value.

To fummon judicially.

4.

is

very low, and then coining

Clarendon,

where he Oiould be called to account

leaky.

Neither

mayor to call ^

a common council immediately.

all

in the French government, than their pra(^Ice of

being informed of much that had

pafled that night, fent to the lord

a word

To CALK. 'V. a. [from calagi, Fr. hemp,

If clipped money be called in

Shakifpcjre.

The king

in other hands.

flopped from palfing by weight, 1 fear it will ftop
Lcckg.
trade.

to fummon together.

;

Now callvit our high court of parliament.

Come, manage me your caTifcr,

A cup

is

IVatti.

To convoke

3.

To refumc any thing that

To call in.

1^.

ceflant importunity, toward the object that excited

FriJiaux.

Ca'lkinc.

Horace defcrlbes an oH ufurer, as fo charmed
with the pleafures of acounti^ life, that, in order to
make a purchafe, he called in all his money ; but
what was the event of it? why, in a very few days
after, he put it out again.
jtddifm'i SpeSater.

am called eff from public dilTertiitions, by a
Tarier.

Darknefs ; obfcurity.

of, were in thee thy calkcn ;

tereft.

jUdf-n't CiUt.
I

To rcfumc money at in-

To call in.

14.

?

CA'LiGRAPHy. a./. [xoAi^fo^iix.] Beau-

ti.

He commits every fin that his appetite caliifir,
or perhaps his conititution or fortune can bear.
Rogert.

by paintings,
Aldit.r'i Sf^flal'r.

Why dull thou call my foriov\s yp jfreih
My father's name brings tears into my eves.

Cali'gikousn t»s.;/.y; [homcaligiiieus.']

[Latin.]

jtidij.

call up their ideas into our mind"

fiatuc', or defcriptions.

CALi'ciNOus.tf*^'. [ca/igifro/'us,'Lat.'\ Obfcure ; dim ; full of darknefs.

CA'LIX. n. /.

Milion'i Sam/fon .Igtni/ltt,
For mailer, nr for fenan', here to call,
Was all alike, where only two wore all.
Vryden't Fablei,

By the pleafures of the imagination <*r fancy,
I me«n fuch ac ari.'e imm vifiMe ohjeAs, when

the mole,

2.

th» undeftrver nuy fleep, wh«n the «»fl of lAloa
Sbalejftan.
is called fir.

Th* foul mikci ufe of het oiemsry, fe ttll •»
mird what (ht U to treat of.

;

1.

C AL

C A L

Ca'lip.
Ifi./.liWifn.Aftkh. tn he1r
Ca'liph. 3 orAicw/Tor.} Aiitk)afTumeit
by the {ixceffois of Mahoniet among

Ca'lker.

;

;

5.

To call upon.

To implore

;

to pray to.

Call upun me in the day of trouble \
thee, and thou Ihalt glorify me.

1

wilt deliver

Pjalm i. 1 5.

Call.

:

;

C A L

C A L

who canBot be fuppofable to have the gift of con-

ymah^
%o (hall the fea be calm unto us,
2. Undifturbed; unruffled: applied to the

C A L
Call. rt. f. [from the verb.]

Divine vocation ; invitation or impulfe

4.

tion.

Give

Mends not her tloweft pace for pray'rs or crirs.

llz'^ieri Pnface.

fummons to true re-

CcUipers mcafure the didance of any round, cy-

,

A fummons from heaven

;

an impulfe.

Callo'sitv. n.f. \callofite, Fr.] A kind

Wbofe pride would foar to beav'n without a calll

of fwelling without pain, like that of the
Ikin by hard labour ; and therefore when
woonds, or the edges of ulcers, grow fo,
^incy.
they are faid to be callous.
The furgeon ought to vary the diet of his pa-

mod dclire.

Dryien.
St. Paul himfelf believed he did well, and that
be had a call to it, when he perfccutcd the chriftiaos, whom he confidently thought in the wrong:
but ycc it was he, and not they, who were miltaken.

tient,

command.

5. Authority;

Oh, Sir

!

I wiih

yours.

6. A demand

;

be were within my tall, c:
Denbam.

a claim.

ful,

H^ilkirt't Mathtnailciil Magki.

employment.

Now through the land his cure oi fouls he
ftrctch'd.

Ca'llousness. n.f, [from callous.']

Still cheerful, ever cnnftant to his call ;

Upon the fixteenth WM held the ferjeantJ feaft at

it.

Bacon.

ultation, ought they not to be cfteemed dcditute
of common feiili?, and abandoned to a callovj'rw/s
and nunibnefs of foul ?
Bf.tLy.

•'

a beggar, in his drink.

Could not have laid fuch terms upon Wiscallet,

South..

have made themfelves ridiculous by at.
Kropting it.
Swift.
I left no calling for this idle trade.
No duty broke, no father dil'obey'd.
F.fc.

Proper Ration, or employment.
Tne Gauls found the Roman fenators ready to
Ale.

3.

with honour in their f/»//i»T^.

The facrcd rites and hecatombs to pay.
And calm Minerva's wrath.
PcJ^.
Ca'lmer. n.f. [from f«/»i.] The perfon
or thing which has the power of giving
quiet.
Angling was, after tedious dudy, a reft to hi!
mind, a chcercr of his fpirits, a divcrter of fadncfs, A calmer of unquiet tliou^jhts, a moderator of
pallions, a procurer of conteritednels.

I^alton.

Ca'i.mly. ad-v. [from calm.']
1. Without ftorms, or violence ; ferently.
In nature, things move violently to their place,
and calmly in their place; fo virtue in ambiti')n is
violent, in authority fettled and calm,
Bacor..
His curled brows
Frown on the gentle dream, which calmly flows.
Dcr.ham.

Without paflions ; quietly.
The nymph did like the fccne appear.
Serenely pleafant, calmly fair;
Soft fell her words, as fleiv the air.

I.

Piior.

Prior.

I

z.

Dcnhatit.

An induration of the fibres.

.

The hard fubftance by which broken
boni.'s

are united.

('.-.las was ths day, and through the tr.-.nbling air
Sweet breathing Zephyrus did loftly play

Quiet; ferene ; not ftormy

z.

Mildnefs ; freedom from paffion.
Sir, 'tis fit

Vou have ftrong party, or defend yourfelf

CALM. adj. [calme, Fr. kal?n, Dutch.]
(.

Tranquillity; ferenity ; not ftorminefs.
While the deep horrid roughncis of the wood
Strives with the gentle calmnejs of the flood.

CA'LLVS. n.f. [Latin.]

may be a caution to ail Chridlan churches

united

employment or profcflion.
It

young.
And teach the callno child her parent'! fong.

by the fame

Claf« of pcrfons

He wiU'd to day.

2.

not tcmpeftuous : applied to the elements.

Sv,'ifi.

Alterbury*

ened.

How in fmall flights they know to try their Ca'lmness.
n.f. [from calm.]

dnOry in our callings.
Rc^rn.
I cannot trrbear wiruing you againft endeavouring at wit in your fcrmons; hecaufe many of your
lallirf

to appeafe.

Decay of Piety,

Was beating widely on the wing for prey.
To hfr now filcnt airy does repair,
And finds hcrcj//i?^y infants fjrc'd away. Drydcn.

We find ourfrlves obliged to go on in honed in-

;

Thofe padions, which fecm fomewhat calmed,
may be entirely laid afleep, and never more awak-

Milton.

Then as an eagle, who with pious care

To pacify

Jcfus, whofc bare word checked the fea, as much
exerts himfelf in filencing the tempeds, and calming the intcftine dorms, within our breads.

Burfting with kindly rupture, forth difclos'd

Their callow young.

be, v/hich arifes from the furvcy of a pious life ?
Surely, as much ai Chriilianity is nobler than a

2.

2.

out feathers,

Vocation; profeflion ; trade.
if God has interwoven fuch a picafurewith our
ordinary callivg, how much fupcriour muil that

trade.

Neptune wc find bufy, in the beginning of the
y£neis, to calm the tempeft raifed by i£olus,
Dryden.

Ca'llow. adj. Unfledged; naked; with,

Ca'llinc. n. /. [from <-a/^]
1.

To ilill ; to quiet.

Cbeyr.e.

wiilingncfs, and entertain final perdition with ex-

HbakdJ'^iarc,

To Calm. v. a. [from the noun.]

If they let go their hope of everlafting life with

„-?»•/• A trull.
La llet.
:

:

2. Infenfibility.

'

J

Great and drange calms ufually portend the moft
violent^orms 5 and therefore, (met fiorms and calms
do always follow one another, ceitainly, of the
two, it is much rriorc eligible to have the Jiorrii
fince a calm before
fird, and the calm afterwards
ijiorm is commonly a peace of a man'k own making; but icalm after AJlorm, a peace of God's.
Stulk.

more of thefc fcales are formed, and the Ikin becomes the thicker, and fo a lallcufntfs grows upon

A nomination.

He call'd her whore

Hardnefs ; induration of the itbres.
The oftcner we ufc the organs of touching, the

1.

DrjcUn.

Ely place, t>iere being nine ieijeaiUs of that call.

pofe : applied to the paiTions.

Hardened; infenfible.
Licentioufnels has fo long pafTed for fharpnefs
of wit, and grcatnefs of mind, that the confcience
is grown callous.
VEJirange.
The wretch is drench'd too deep ;
His foul is Dupid, and his heart afleep ;
Fattcn'd in vice, fo callous and fo grofs.
He (\ni, and fees not, fenfelef's of hij. lofs. Drydcn.

thofe creatures, which are reprcfentcd.

By many follow'il, lov'd by moft, admir'd by all.

Poft.

Freedom from difturbance ; quiet ; re-

2,

1

In progrefs of time, the ulcers became finuous
and callous, with induration of the glands. )ViJeman.
2,

And like a primitive apodle preach'd

Nor God alont in the dill calm we find.

He mount! the iluroi, and walks upon the whid.

fliut up.

For thpfe birds or beads were made from fnch
pipes or calls, as may exprefs tlie feveral tones of

8. Calling ; vocation ;

Raleil!*.

Every pilot
Can (leer the (hip in ca'tni ; bathe performs
The Ikilful part, tin manage it in dorms, Dtntn-m.

Indurated ; hardened ; having the pores

1.

An inftrumcnt to call birds.

It feemeth moft agreeable to rcafoo thM the
waters rather liood in a »;uiet-i«/ni, than tiwt they
moved with any raging 01 overbearhig violence.

ylrbulhtts! on Diet.

Ca'llous. adj. [callus, Lat.]

Dependence is a perpetual call upon humanity,
and a greater incitement to ttndernefs and pity,
than any other motive whatfocver. Mdifan'iSfcll,

7.

lent motion: uled of the elements.

as he finds the fibres loolen too much, are

too flaccid, and produce fungufcs ; or as they harden, and produce callojitiis ; in the firft cafe, wine
and Ipiritusns liijuors are ufeful, in the laH hurt-

Locke.

Pcpi.

Serenity; ftillncfs ; freedom from vio-

1.

body; fo that when workmen ufe
them, they open the two points to their dcfcribed
width, and turn fo much ftuff off the intended
place, till the two points of the callifers fit jufl over
their work,
Mcxon^s Mechanical Exercifes,

How juftly then will impious moruls fall,

Still plead a eall to what they

Her eyes reftrain the lih et-!lreaming tears,

Calm. n.f.

lindricir, conical

Thofe who to empire by dark paths afpire.

r-

iiake*will on Providence.

tiles,

noways congruou", that Cod fhouldS*

mi

iPcier, i. 10.

Ca'llipers. n./. [Of this word I know

ligion.
Yc: he at length, time to himfelf beft known,
Remfmb'ring Abraham, by fome wond'rous m//,
May bring them back rcpcnt.int and fincerc. M'tlton.

p.

It is

frightening men into truih, who were maJ:' to be
gentle mewrought upcin by calm evidence,
Atltriury,
thods of perfuafion.
The queen her fpeech with calm attention hf ar ,

make your calling and

not the etymology ; nor does any thing
more probable occur, than that, perhaps, the word is corrupted from clippen, inftruments with which any thing
is clipped, inclofed, or embraced.] Compa/Fes with bowed fhanks.

2. Requifition authoritative and public.
It may be feared, whether our nobility would
contentedly |iiffi;r themfelvet to b= always at the
call, and to ftjnd to the lenience, of a number of

4..

diligence, to

St. Peter was ignorant of the calling of the Gen-

The wond'ring fonlts loon ihouid dance again
Tlie moving mouiitairs iiear the ptiw'rt'u! lallf
And headlong Itreama hang lift'oing in their tall.

all

eleflion fure.

Mihtn.

But would yon fing, uni rival Orpheus' ftrain,

mean pcrfonsDivine vocation ;

paflions.

to the true religion.

But death comes not at cajl, jnftice divine

3.

Hammond.

tinence.

A vocal addrefs of fummons or invita-

1.

;

.

;

and magiftraiet, not to impofe celibacy on whole

A gentle fpirit, that li^licly did allay

lalhngt, aod peat multitudes of jsicn at women,

Hot Titan's beaini, which Uien did glillcr fair.
Spcnfer,

By calmnejs, or by abfencc

:

all 's in

anger.

Shll\,

beg the grace.
You would lay by thofe terrours of your face
Till calmnejs to your eyes you fird leftorc,
Drydfn,
I am afraid, and I can be^ no more.
I

Ca'lmy. adj. [from <«//«.] Calm; peaceful.

Not ufed.
And

CAM

C AL
And now they nigh approached to the fled.
Where as thofe mermaidcs ivxlt it was a ftiU
And {jfny Say, on one firic Sheltered
^ With the broaJ ihadowof x\ hoarj- hill. Fairy S^.
Ca'lomel. n. /. [calomelas, a chymical
word.] 'Mercury fix times fublimcd.
:

Calumnta'tion. n.f. [from ealumniatt."] Ca'm EL. n.f. [mwc/w, Lat] An animal
That which we call calumniation, is a
very common in Arabia, Judea, and the
malicious and falfe reprcfentation of an
neighbouring countries.
One fort it

He repeated lenient purgatives, with ra/omW, once

large, and lull of fiedi,

purpofe.

burdens of a thoufand pounds weight,
having one bunch upon its back.
Another have two bunches upon their
backs, like a natural faddle, and are
fit either for burdens, or men to tide
on.
A third kind is leaner, and of a
fmaller fize, called dromedaries, becaufe of their fwiftnefs
which are generally ufed for riding by men of qiu-

A forger of accufation

A ca/cr-fick principle is either excited within the
Silver will

grow hotter
Creiu.

CALO'TTE. n.f. [French.]

A cap or coif, worn as an ecdcfiaftical

.,

ornament in France.

2.

[In architefture.]

his declared t\xi and ca!umniatirx.

Sbaktfpeare.

CA'LUMNY. n.f [calumnia, Lat.] Slan-

Temprate as alayert in their fecret cells.
MjJiicn on Beulter.

Ca'ltrops. n.f. [cokpseppe, Saxon.]
1. An inftrument made with three fpikes,
fo that which way foever it falls to the
ground, one of theift points upright, to

wound horfes feet.
The ground about was thick fown with i-a//r;/ii,
which verymuch incomnloJeci the fliodcfs Moors.
Dr. ylMi]'-i:'i ^ccmr.nf Tangier s.

A plant common in France, Spain, and
where it grows among corn, and
for the fruit being

armed with ilrong prickles, run into the
This is certainly the
feet of the cattle.
plant mentioned in \'irgil's Georgick,
Miller.
under the name of tribulus.
To Calve, f. n. [from calf.]
1. To bring a calf: fpoken of a cow.
When (he has calvd, then fct the dam afide,
Drydcr..
And for the tender progeny provide.
2. It is ufed metaphoricilly for any adl of
and fometimes of men,
bringing forth
;

by way of reproach.
would they were barbarians, as they are,

Though in Rome litter'd ;

not Romans, as thJy

are not.

Though calvci in the porch o' th' capltol. Shak.
The gralTy clodj now calv'i; now half iippcar'd

The tawny lion, pawing to get free
Millon,

His hinder parts.

Calves-snout. \antirrhinum.'\ A plant.
Snapdragon.

HALVl'LLE. n. f

[French.]

A fort of

apple.

charge ; groundlefs accufation
with agninft, or fometimes upon,
before the perfon accufed.
Be thvu as chaltc as ice, as pure as fnow.
Thou ihait not efcape calumny.
Sbahffeare,

I

falfe

:

'

is very troublefome ;

and keep water a long time in their
ftomacb, for their rcfrclhrnent.
CaJmct,
Patient of third and toil.
Son of the defart even the camei feels,
Shot through his witiier'd heart, tlie fiery blaft.
tbcmfin.
drinking,

With calumnKus art

Greek church.

I

Camels have large folid feet, but not hard. Catneh
will continue tenor twelve days without eating or

Of counterfeited truth, thus held their cars. MjltuK.

aJLOTERS. n.f. [xa^®-.] Monks of the

Italy,

lity.

Virtue itielf 'Icapes not calumnimt lirokes.

der ;

Came'lopard. ». / [from camelas and

To accufe falfely

grow here.

Ttmfk.

CALX. n. f [Latin.] Any thing that is
rendered reducible to powder by burning.
Gold, that is more denfe than lead, refills peremptorily all the dividing power of fire ; and will
not be reduced into a calx, or lime, by fuch operaDighy.
tion as reduces lead into it.

I .

ture.
:.

A

terra ufed where there
[In painting.]
only one colour, and wliere the lights
and iliadows are of gold, wrought on a
golden or azure ground. This kind of
work is chiefly ufed to reprefent baflb
is

Chambers.

relievos.

Ca'mber. n.f. [See Cambering.]
term among workmen.
Camber,

.1

A

piece of timber cut arching, fo as, a

weiglit confiderablc being fet

upon

it,

it

W»

A. Ptilift,

?« Calu'mniate. t;. a.

To flander.

One trade or art, even thofe that (hould be the
jnoll liberal, make it their buQnefs to difdain and
calumniate another.

1.

A kind of ftufF originally made by a

S

mixture of filk and camels hair ;
now made with wool and filk.
This habit was not of camels
coarfe texture of

Hfratt.

its

ikin,

hair, but rather

it

is

nor any

fome fintr

weave of cameht, grograin, or the like ; inafmucli
as thefe ftufts are fuppofed to be made of the hair

Brevin's f^utgarErrimn.

of that animal.
2.

Hair cloth.
Meantime the pallor /hears their hoary beards.

And eafes of their hair the loaden herds:
Their MiBf/orj warm in tents the foldier hold.
And Ihield the (hiv'ring mariner from cold. Dryd.

CA'MERA OBSCURA. [Latin.] An optical machine ufed in a darkened cham-

ber, fo that the light coming only thro'
a double convex glafs, objefts expofcd
to d.-iylight, and oppofite to the glafs,
are reprelentcd inverted upon any white
matter placed in the focus of the glafs.

Martin,

may in

Ca'merade. n.f, [from camera, a chamMctxc/rCt Mecbanical Exercifcu
ber, Lat.] One that lodges in the fame
Ca'mberinc. n.f A word mentiont-'d by
chamber a bofom companion. 3y corSkinner, as peculiar to (hipbuilders, who
ruption we now ufe comrade.
length of time be induced to a ftraight.

;

Camerades with him,

mean arched, [from chambri, French.]
dcf;gn.
to charge without
Ca'm b u ic k. n.f. [from Cambray, a city Ca'merated.

Love, friendftiip, charity, are fubjeS all
Sbakejptarc.
To envious and ealumitiatinr time.
He mixes truth with faliehood, and has not forgotten the rule of calummaiing ftrongly, that fomeDryden's FatUi, Pre/.
thing may remain.
Do I calumiia:t f thou ungrateful Vanoc '.—
Perfidious prince!— Is it a calumny
To fay that Gwendolen, betroth'd to Yver,
by her father firft aflur'd to Valens ?

'

;i
> n.f, [from f ««!«.]

,

Ca mlet.

Cama'jeu. n.f. \_hom camachuia; which
name is given by the orientals to the
onyx, when, in preparing it, they find
another colour.]
A ftone with various figures and reprefentations of landfkips, formed by na-

rr

r

f^

Di3.

bud of a plant.

Tre-voux,

giaraffa,

Ca'mELOT.'}

Ca'lvcle. n.f. [calyculus,'L9.t.'\ A fmall

fay that a plase is cambering, wlien they
;

pardus, Lat.] An Abyflinian animal,
taller than an elephant, but not fo tluck.
He is fo named, becaufe he has a neck
and head like a camel ; he is fpotted
like a pard, but his fpots are white upon
a red ground.
The Italians call him

It is a very hard calumny ufan our foil or climate, to affirm, that fo excellent a fruit will not

Ti Calu'mni ATE. -v. n. [calumnior, Lat.]
jufl ground.
Beauty, wit, high birth, defert in fervice,

and fit to carry

:

Addijon.

Calvj'.mn- lous.fl/^. [^(cotacalumny.l Slanderous ; fallely reproachful.

A round cavity or

depreflure, in form of a cap or cup,
lathed and plaiftered, ufed to diminifh
the rife or elevation of a chapel, cabinet,
Hnrris.
alcove, t5f.

2,

a flanderer.

of .potent ca/umridtors, mull lay his Hngcrupun his
mouth, and keep his hand out of the ink- put.
VEJIrangiAt the fame timclhttt Virgil was celebrated by
Galius, we know that Ravius and Moevius weic

heat ; heating.

thjn the liquor it contains.

;

He that would live clear of the envy and hatred

h-ited biKly, or transferred to it, through any nic-

diam, from fome other.

Aylijfe.

Calumni a'tor. n.f. [from calumntate.]

Galoiu'fick. adj. {calorifcus, Lat.]
That which has the quality of producing

1,

enemy's words or iflions, to an ofTcnfive

tV.jimari'i Syrgtry.

in three or four days.

CAM

Flanders where it was principally
made.] A kind of fine linen, ufed for
in

ruffles, women's fleeves,

and caps.

He hath ribbons of all the colours of the rainbow } inkles, caddifes, cambricks, and lawns.
Shakifpfari.

Rebecca had, by th:! ufe of a looking glais, and
by the further uli: of certain attire, made of cav:br'tck, upon her head, attained to an evil art. TaiUr.
Confed'rate in the cheat, they draw the throng.

And cambrick handkerchiefs reward the fong. Gay,
Came. The preterite of To come.
Till all the pack camt up, and cv'ry hound
Toic tUc fad huntfman, grov'liog on the ground.

AJd'Jan.

and confederates in his
Rymtr.

eidy,

[cameratus,

Lat.]

Arched ; roofed flopewife.

Camera'tion. n.f. [cameratio, Lat.] A
vaulting or arching.

Camisa'do. n.f.

[camifa, a (hirt, Ital.
camifhtm, low Lat.] An attack made
by ioldiers in the dark ; on which occafion they put their ihirts outt\'ard, to

be feen by each other.
They had appointed the fame

night, whofe
darknefs would have encreafcd the fear, to have
given a camijadc upon the Eiiglilh.
HayzvarJ.

Ca'misated. adj. [from cami/'a, a Ihirt.]

Dre&d with the fhirt outward. .
Ca'.vslet.

.

.

!

See CAMEtor.
He had on him a gown with wide (liCTJJ, of a

Ca'mlet.

kind of water camlef, of an excetknt azure colour.
Baiort.

C a' u MOck. tr./. [caiTitnoc, Saxon; ononis.]

An

herb ;

CAN

CAN

-CAM

C»e fame with

feit^'

adj.
[from camphcra,
Lat.] Impregnated with camphire.
By ihal^ing the faline and carr.ph-.rate liquors
together, we eafity confounded them into one
high-coloured liquor.

Ca wpion. n.f. \lychnis, Lat.] A plant.

A thin drefs mentioned by Spenfer.

Camo'ys. a//j. [camns, Fr.] Flat; level;

And wis ydad, f -r heat of fcorching air.

It is only nfed of the nofe.
Many Spaniards, of rile race of Barbaiy Moors,

deprefled.

though after frequent comniixtmc, have not worn
out ific camojfi nofe ur.to this day.
'
BrozvtCi Vulgar Errourt*

hate it as ;)n U"ifi..'d ran.

I

clothing, fhipping, meat, drink, and can.

&balic^ftare,

n. f.

An

gantlet, to challenge him to this trial.

Haknvill.

Southerne
For cancelling your debts.
Ca'ncbll AT BD. particip. adj. [from f^a-

Locke.

CAMPA'NU.] /a»/a, Ital.]
1. A large, open, level traft of ground,
Id countries thinly inhabited, and efpecially in
few cities, befidea what
grow by the refidencc of Icings.
TfrlkU,
Tbofe grateful groves, that Ihade the plain.
Tiber
Where
rolls majertic to the main.
And fattens, as he runs, the fair ctimpaign. Garth.
2. The time for which any army Iceeps the
Tail campcniai, there are

field, without entering into quarters.

This might have hallencd hrs march, which
woold have made a fair concIuCon of the campaign,

.

An Iliad tifing out of one campaign.
I

It Ihe can

from may, as poiver
jrom permi£toH ; I can do it, it is in my
power ; I may do it, it is allowed me
but in poetry they are confounded.
4. Ca?t is ufed of tlie perfon w ith the rverb
aliive, where may is ufed of the thing,
with the -verb pajpve ; as, I can do it,
it may or can be done.

Campe'stral. adj.
Growing in fields.

\campejlris, Lat.]

The mounuin beech is the whiteft; but the
campijlral, or wild beech, is blacker and more durable.

CANA'ILLE. n.f [French.] The lowf ft
people ; the dregs ; the lees ; the offI'couring of the people
a French term
of reproach.
:

Cana'l. //./.

[canalis, Lat.]

A bafon of water in a garden.

1.

The walks and lon^ ranah reply.
Pcpe.
2. Any traft or courfe of water made by
art, as the canals in Holland.
A conduit or paffage
3. [In anatomy.]
through which any of the juices of the

body flow.

Morlimir,

Ca'mphire tree. n.f. [caiapiora, Lat.] Ca'nal-coal. «./ A kind of coal, dug
There are two forts of this tree ; one is a native
of the ifle of Borneo, from which the beft camfhirt is talcen, which it fuppofed to be a natural
exfudation from the tree, produced io fiich places
where the bark of the tree has been wounded or
The other fort is a native of Japan, which
cut.
Dr. Kcmpfer defcribes to be a kind of bay, bearing black or purple berries, and from whence t!i':
inlialiitanti prepare their camphiri, by making a
finple d<:caOion of the root and wood of this tree,

up in England.

Even our canal-coal nearly equals the foreign

It is oftencr ufed for the

Crofsbarred ; marked with liues

cfL]

croiling each other.

The tail of the caftor is almoft bald, though
the

beaft

is

and cancellated^ with

very hairy ;

Grswi

fome refemblance to the fcales of fiihes.

Cancella'tion. n.f. [ivomcancel.] According to Bartolus, is an expunging
or wiping out of the contents of an inftrument, by two lines drawn in the
manner of a crofs.
Ayliffe.
CA'NCER. n.f [cancer, Lat.]
1.

A crabfifli.

2.

The fign of the fummer folftice.
When now no more th' alternate Twins are fir'd.
And Cancer reddens with the folar blaze,
Short is thedoubtfulempireof the night. Thomfon.

3.

A virulent fwelling, or fore, not to be
cured

Any of thefe three may degenerate into a fchirrus,

and that fqhirrus into a cancer.

H^ijcman,

As when a cancer on the body feeds,

And gradual death from limb to limb proceeds;
So does the chilnefs to each vital part
Spread by degrees, and creeps into the heart. AJdift

ToCa'ncerate. v.n. [fvcm cancer.] To
grow cancerous ; to become a cancer.
But ftriking his fift upon the point of a nail in
the wall, his hand canceratcdy he fell into a fever,
and fuon after died on't.
VEJlrange.

Cancera'tion. n.f. [from cancerate,\

A growing cancerous.
Ca'ncerous. adj. [from cancer.] Having
the virulence and qualities of a cancer.

How they are to be treated when they are
ftrumous, fcliirrous, or cancermt, you may fee in
Wijeman.
their proper place?.

JVoodtvard.
Ca'ncerousness. n.f. [from cancerous.]
CANALr'cut ATED. ac/j. [from canalicuThe ftate of being cancerous.
latus, Lat.]
Channelled
made like a Ca'ncrine. «/^'. [from cancer.] Having
;

pipe or gutter.
D;V?.
Cana'ry. n.f. [from the Ca«ar)( iflands.]
1
Wine brought from the Canaries, now
called fack.
1 win t/> my honell knight Falllaff, and drink

the qualities of a crab.

Ca'ndent. adj. [candens, Lat.] Hot; in
the

higheft

degree

of heat,

next to

'

canary with him.
wine kx& with him ;

Milton.

gom of this tree.

my lords.

jet.

cut into fmall pieces j but tliii fort of camptire is,
in value, eighry or an hundred times lefs than the
true Bornean ramphlrt.

1 pafs the bills,

:

MJifon.

campaniform.

ihe only can:

!

3, It is dillinguidied

.

which are in the fhape of a bell. Harris.
Campa'nulate. at/J. The fame with

make me bled

Empire and wealth, and all fhe brings belide.
Arc but the train and trappings of her love. Dryd,

Clarendon.

C A M p a'n- FO R M aJj. [ofcampana, a beli,
Siad/oima, Lat.] A term ufed of flowers,

mood; as, I

It exprefles the potential
can do it.

z.

\n,f, [campaigne, Fr. cam-

without hills.

Spenfer,

Know then, I here forget all former griefs.

Baccn.

For tlicir trial by (amp-fght, the accufet »!as,
with the peril of his own body, to prove the secured guilty ; and, by offering him his glove or

,

And lA\ my cares which cruel love coiledled
Has fumm'd in one, and cancelled for aye.

In place there is licence to do good and evil,
whereof the latter is a curfe : for, in evil, the bell
condition is not to will ; the fecond, not to can.

O, there 's tlie wonder
Mecaenas and Agrippa, who can raoft
With Cafar, are h!s foes.
Dryden.
He can away with no company, whofe difcourfe
goes beyond what claret ind diffolutenefs infpires.

old word for

combat.

Campaign.

;

Now welcome night, thou night fo long expelled,
That long day's labour doth at laft defray.

Cancel all grudge ; repeal thee home again. Shak.
Thou, whom avenging pow'rs obey.
Cancel my debt, too great to pay.
Before the fad accounting day.
RofcimiKon,

1 .

to pitch a camp ; to fix tents.

Camp-figiit.

To crofs a writing.
To efface to obliterate in general.

1.

2.

the potential mood : as, I can do, thou
It
caitft do, I ceulddo, thoq ceuUefi 4o.
has no other terminations.]
To be able ; to have power.

;

hoftile pnrpofes.
Had our great palace the capacity
To camf thi> boft, we would all fup together.

expreffion of

in conftant ufe as an

is

Camp. 'v. a. [from the noun ]
To encamp to lodge in tents, for

;

Dryden.

;

Shairj'f.

from

[canceller, Fr.

cancellis notare, to mark with crofs lines.]

To Can. i/. n. [kontien, Dutch. It is fometlmes, though rarely, ufed alone
but

Next, to fccure our camp and naval pow'rs,
Raife an embattled wall with loft)' tow'rs,
Poft.

Carezu.

To CA'NCEL. -J. a.

Crtio.

His empty can, with ears half v/orn away.
day.

The hum

To camp

Of finging birds, they have linaets, goldfinches,
ruddocks, camiry h\rd%y blackbirds, thrufhes, and
di\ers other.

Was hung on high, to boaft the triumph of the

to encamp.

many.

Shaiejpeare.

One tree, the coca, kffordeth fluff for houfing,

We

night.
<:>( either army ftilly founds.

finging
formerly bred in the Canaries,
and no where elfe ; but now bred in fe^
veral parts of Europe, particularly Gerbird,

Fairy ^.
Can*, n.f [canne. Sax.] A cup ; generally a cup made of metal, or fome other
matter than eanh.

campus, Lat.]
The order of tents',
placed by armies when they keep the
field.
ufe the phiafe to fitch a camp,

From cairf to cBrr.p, through the foul womb of

Caka'ry bird. An excellent

All in fiiken camuiy lilly white,
Purflcd upon.with many a folded plight.

CAMP. »./. \_camp, Fr. camp. Sax. from

2.

?—

Brr^le.

A flo\ver.

Ca'm'omile. n. f. [anth/K.-s.]

1

Mafter, will you win your love with a French
How mean'lt thou, brawling in French i
brawl
—No, my compleat mafter ; but to jigg off a tune
at the tongue's end, canary to it with your feet,
humour it with turning up your eyelids. Shahjp.

Ca'm t's. n.f. [probably fi-om camifa, Lat.]

ivhiit, or reftharro'w.

7fl

To Caka'ry. •». a. A cant word, which
feems to fignify to dance ; to frolick.

Ca'mphorate.

2.

An old dance.

1

think I lliall drink in pipe
make him dance. Shak.

I'll

fufion.
If a wire b« heated only at one end, according
upward or downward, it refpcfiively acquires a verticity, as we have declareij
as that end is cooled

in wires totally cendcnl,

'

Sr<i^n~

CA'MDtCAWt,

;

CAN
6a'.vdic«st. udj. [ cattJictttii, Lat. T
Growing white ; whitifh,
Di^.
White.

Before the day was done, her work (he fped.
And neve; went by rmdieligbt to bed. Dryd. Fab.
The boding owl
Steals from her private cell by night.
And flies about the candlelight.
Siu'ifi.
Such as are adapted to mcaU, will indift'crcntly
ferve for dinners or fuppers, only dillinguiOiing
between daylight and candlelight.
Stuift.

he box receives

Drydcn.

2. Free from malice ; not defirous to find
faults ; fair ; open ; ingenuous.

The import of the difcourfc will, for the moft

Baccn,

On choiccft melons and fweet grapes they diae.

.

ffW/rr.
2.

To form into congelations.
Will the cold brook,
CanSied with ice, cawdle thy moroiog toaft.
To cure thy o'er-night's furfeit f
Sbakefpearu

To incruft with congelations.

3.

Since when thofe froAs chat winter brings,
Which candy every green.
Renew us like the teeming fprings.
And we thus frefli arc fccn.
Diayion,

The necefiary candles for ufe.

2.

ineming of it.

Molinevx to Lode. 7*0 Ca'ndy. 1;. ». To grow congealed^
Ca'ndlem AS. n.f. [from canJkzxid.mafs.] Ca'h oir Litin's/bot, [cataaurice. Lit.] A

Loth.

With the fame fptrit that its author writ.

I fliall find

Poft.

A competitor

Virgin, which was formerly celebrated
with many lights in churches.
The harvcft dinners are held by every wealthy

one that folicits, or propofes himfelf for, fomething of advancement.
So many candidates there (land for wit,

t,

A place at court

;

is fcarce fo

u^ttotymcus.

^dJ':fin.

h has generally /<w before the thing
fought.

What could thus high thy ralh ambition ralfe

'

Art thou, fond youth, a candidate f<tr praife? Pope.

Ca'ndlestick.

Sometimes cf.
Thy firft-fruits of p«fy were giv'n

3.

Dryden.

Ca'n Di DLY. adv. [from candid.'] Fairly
without trick ; without malice ;

We bavc often defircd they would deal candidly
with us ; for if the matter ftuck only there, wc
•would propofe that every man fliould fwear, that
he is a member of the clnirch of Ireland, Sioift,

Ca'ndidness, ft./, [from candid."] Ingenuity ; opennefs of temper ; purity of
finful aftion ;

and, on the other fide, obferves the candidnefs of a

man's very principles, and the fmcerity of his inSouth.

tentions.

Ca'n DI FY. 'V. a. \candifica, Lat.] To
make white ; to whiten.
Di£l.

made of wax or tallow, furA
1
rounding a wick of flax or .cotton.

Thefe countries were once chriftian, and mem-

I

With Cdndle^vaftirt,

Shake/poire.

Ca'n DOCK. k./.

A weed that grows in

rivers.
Let the pond lie dry fix or twelve montlK, both
to kill the water-weeds, as water-lilies, capdocks,
Tcatc, and bulrulhes ; and alfo, that as thefe die
for want of water, fo grafs may grow on thepond's
ff'alfon.
bottom.

nefs of temper ;

gentle infmuacion>

To Ca'ndy. f.
dare, a

fidbr timer s Hufbandry,

Cani'cular. /2^^'. \_canicul(*ris,h&t.] Belonging to the dog-ftar ;
or dog-days.

[probably from can-

In regard to ^i^ereut latitudes, unto fome the
canicular days are in the winter, »i unto fuch as
are.ui^cr the equincillal lip.c ; lor unto them the

dog-ilar arilcth, wb«n the tun is about the tropick

of Cancer, which fcafon unto them is winter.
Brown's I'algar Errturs.

CAni'NE. adj. [caninus, hAl.]
1. Having the properties of a dog.

A

fuch a

kind ot" women are made up of canine particks t thefe are fcolds, who imitate the animals
out of which tlicy were taken, always bufy and

flakes,

barking, and fnati at every one titat comes in their

ivhitfn.]
I.

To

conferve

with fugar, in

manner aj that the fugar lies in

as, canicular,

.

H'atts.

a.

To

beat with a walking Xlaft".

fort ot

word ufcd in latet times for n

A reed.

To Cane. <v. a, [from the noun.]

'.

might convey knowledge with a

a dart made of cane : whence

Food may be afibrded to bees, by fmall cants or
troughs conveyed into their hives.

He IhouW have lb much of a natural candour and

\liQiD. candle &xtA

Tn be a candieicfdet, and look on.
Shaiiff/arr
Ca'n dle LIGHT, n.f. [from camile and

4.

fwcetncfs, mixed with all the improvement of learning, as

;

Judge-like thou fitt'ft, to praife or to arraign
The flying ilcirmiih of the parted cane, Drydcn,

purity of mind ; openkindnefs.

nefs ; ingenuity ;

A lance

the Spanifli inego de caimas.
Akcnamar, thy youth thefe fports has known.
Of which thy age is now fpeftator grown j

Ca'ndour. n.f. [cander, Lat.] Swcet-

hold.]

For I am proverb'd with a grandfirc phrafe,

Blaekmore,
3.

fpendthrift.
Patch grief with proverbs, make misfortunes
drunk

By thefe blefi'd canditi of the niglit.

Tickle the fenlelcfs ruflies v.ith their heels

Bacon.

Candlewa'ster. n.f. {from candle and
<u;a/?f.]
One that confumes candles ; a

Bae-on's Naturjl flijiory.

i*: wantons, light of heart,

whence is exprefled the liquor of which fugar ia
Cham'^ers,
made.
And the fweet liqoor on the cant beftow,
Piotn which prcpar'd the lufcious fugars flow.

;

burn.

Take a child, and fctting a candk before him,

He that holds the candle.
2. He tiiut remotely allilb.

m

By the help of oil, and wax, and (A.\\zr 'eaftdlefluff, the flame may continue, wd the wick not

candia, bccaufe wax is more firm and hard.

1.

below the top of the flower ; and they are ordi.
narily ripe
ten months, at which time they are
found qorte full of a white fucculcnc marrow,

Ca'ndlestuff. n.f. [from candle and
fluff'] Any thing of which candles may
be made kitchen ftuff; greafe tallow.

We fee that wax candhs hfl longer than tallow

Had you been there, I think you would have begg'd
The ring of me, to give the worthy Joftor. Shak.
Ca'mdlebekrt tree. See Sweetwillow ; of which it is a fpecies.

dle of which arifc the flower and the feed.
They
ufually plant them in pieces cut a foot and a half

know a friend, who has converted the effays

of a man of quality into a kind of fringe for his
Addijon.

Sbakejpeare.

you ihall find his pupil to contraft very much, to
exclude the light, with the brightnefs whereof it
would otberwifc be dazzled.
Ray.
2. Light, or luminary.

puts forth long green tufted leaves, from the mid-

candlfjlicks.

light

Here bums my cmdh out, ay, here it dies.
Which, while it laHed, gave king Henry light.

grows four or five feet high, and about h:tlf an
inch in diameter. The Rem or flalk is divided
by knots a toot and a half apart.
At the tup it

bers of the church, and where the golden candle.
/licks did ftand.
Bacon.

GA'NDLE. n.f. \_candeJa, Lat.]

-Cakdleho'lder.. a./.

ik;n hard and dry, and their pulp void of juice £
but the flcin Of the fugar ccne is foft.
It ufualty

Shakefpeare.

;

mind.
of a

This cane or reed grows plentifully both in the
and Weft laiica.
Other rveds have their

jades

inge-

The plant witich yields the fugar.
JCaft

Lob down their heads.

;

nuoufly.

It prefently fees the guilt

2.

The horJemen fit like fixed eandlifiicks.
With torch-ftaves in their hands ; and their poor

While yet a young probationer,

STff

[from candle and

A

dles.

To make thyfelf a welcome inmate there,
Ani candidate of Uciv'n.

n.f.

Shall I to pleafc anotlicr wine fprung mind
Lofe all iTiine own i Cod hath given me anieafurs
Short of his cane and body : mud I find
piu'n in that wherein he finds a pleafure ? Uerbertf
The king thrult the captain from him with his
cane; whereupon he took his leave, and went
home.
Harvey*
If the poker be out of the way, or broken, ftir
the fiie with your mafter's care.
Swift*

The inftrument that holds can-

ftick.]

Miller.

A kind of ftrong reed, of which walking flaffs are made ; a walking ftaff.

1.

or, as wc term it, by every good liver, between Michaelmas and Candlemat,
Carrw^s Survey of Cornwall.
There is a general tradition in moft parts of Europe, rhat inferrefh the coldnefs of the fucceeding
winter, upon Ihining of tlie Am upon Candlemas
day.
Bronen^s Vulgar £rrours.
Come CandUmas nine years ago ihe died,
And now lies bury'd by the yew-tree fide. Gay.

One would be furprifed to fee fo many candidetes
2.

plant.

CANE. n./. [canna, Lat.]

man,

bard to get.

Tor glory.

him coals and candlelight,

The feaft of the Purification of the Bleffed

Ca*nd!Date. 7t.f. [candidaiusy'LvA.']

.

and mixture of amber.

With candy'd plantancs and the juicy pine.

part, if thcie be no dcfigoed fallacy, fufficiently
lead candid and intelligent readers into the true

A caadiJ ]vii%t. will read each piece of wit

.

ers,

Hooker.

This fenfe is very rare.

cence.

citrons, or fugar and violets, and fome other flow-

In dirkiiefs candlelight may ferve to guide men's
fteps, which to ufe in the day, were madnefs.

all bUck ; buc, pour'd from
thmce,
The ftones came candid forth, the hue of inoo']

The light of a candle.

1.

CA'NDID. adj. [canJidus, Lat.]
1 .

CAN

CAN

way.

or breaks into f^angles.
rihould the poi.r befl^tter'd?

No, let the candy'd tongue lick abfui'd pomp,

And crook the pregnant hinges of the'Itnee,
Shakefpenre.
Where thrift may follow fawning,
They have in Turky coi\xaSMttiSiiat\acaidMit
conferees, made of fugar and lemons, or fugai and

2,

Addifcn,

Canine hunger, in medicine, is an appetite which cannot be fatisiied.
It may occafion an exorbitant appetite of ufual
things, which they will take in

luch quantities,
thoy-vemit-ftem up like dtjE; from whence it
is called canine,
Arkathnot.
till

Ca'nister

;

iC
Ca'nistkr. «. /.

Reftore to God his due in tithe and tln.e :

[canjfirum, hit.}

White lilies in full canijleri they tring,
With all the glories of the purple I'pring, Drydrn.
fmall veflel in which any thing, fuch
2.

A

as tea or coffee,

is

laid up.

CA'NKER. n.f. icancer, Lat.

feems

It

to have the fame meaning and original
with cancer, but to be accidentally writ-

ten with a k,

lities in a lefj degree ;

the Latin.

A

1.

;

An houeft man will enjoy himfelf better in a
moderate fortune, that is gained with honour and
reputation, than in an nvergiowH eftate, that is
cankered with the ac<]uiritions of rapine and cx-

worm that preys upon and deftroys

fruits.

And loathful idlencfs he doth dctefl:,
The cankir worm of every gentle breail.

and bit.l

Yet writers fay, as in the fweeteft bud

The eating canier dwells

;

fo eating love

Inhabits in the fincftwlts of all.

Shak''fpeare,

By treafon's tooth baregnawn and cjnhrbit. Shai.
adj. ^cannaiinits, Lat.]

Ca'nnabine,
Hempen.

Bacon.
They were little better than cannibals, who d'
hunt one another ; and he that hatU moft ftrcngch
and fwiftnefs, doth eat and devour all his fUows.

(lain.

Of nature fierce, untameable, and proud.
He bids defiance to the gaping crowd
And fpent at laft, and fpeechlefs, as he lies.

wbich, in procefs of time, breeds a publicic poverty.
Bacon.

cannibals have eftcemed ic

And plant this thorn, this canker, Boliogbroke.
Draw a
ftccple,

cherry with the leaf, the

a fingle or canker rofe.

Ca'nnipers. n.f. [corrupted from callipers ; which fee.]

6. Corrofion ; virulence.

As with age his body uglier grows,
So his mind with cankers,
Sbakeffteare.

A difeafe in trees.

7.

Dt<3,

y^CA'NKER. 'u. ». [from the noun.]

To grow corrupt

I.

2.

two rulers, clapped to the fide of a tree, mealuring
the diftance between them. Mortimer's Hufbandry.

implying fomething

A

renoroous and malignant.
That cunning architedl of cankered guile,

Whixn princes late difpleafure lelt in bands,

Clarendon.

For falfed letters, and fuborned wile. Fairj Siuten.
I will lift the down-trod Mortimer
As high i' th' air as tills unthankful king.

As this ingrate and miiiicrVBoiingbroke, Shakeff.
Or what the crois dire looking planet fmite.
Or hurtful worm with canker'd venom bite. Milt.
To fonie new clime, or to thy native fliy,

Oh fricndiefa and forfakcn virtue

!

fly :

Deceit and canhr'il malice ru!e thy throrc.
Let envious jealoufy and eanker'tl fpite

Produce my actions to feverrft light,
And utx my open day or frcret night.
~*.

Pricr.

which are (hot from great guns
He reckons thofc for wounds that arc made by

.

wil fully and eanfer more than gilding j which, if it might be correiled with a little
miiture of gold, will be profitable.
Bann,
Silvering

Ta Ca'nkbr. -v. a.
i.

To corrupt ; to corrode.
Voi,.l.

Canon alfo denotes thofe books of Scripture^
which are received as infpired and canonical, to
diftinguilh them from either profane, apocryphal,
or difputed books.
Thus we fay, that Gencfs is
part of the facred canon of the Scripture.
AytiWe,

\.

fiaftical.

7» Cannon a'de. f. a. [from cannon.}
To play the great guns ; to batter or
attack with great guns.

Bacon,

Swift much admires the place and air,
And longs to be a canon there.

A canon

/

that's a place too mean :

No, doftor, you fliall be a dean j

Two dozen canons round your flail.
5.

And you the tyrant o'er them all.
Stvift.
Such as are placed in

Canons Regular,
monafteries.

6.

Ayliffe,

Canons Secular. Lay canons, who have
been, as a mark of honour, admitted into forae chapters.

IViJeman^s Surgery.

Let a cannm-bullet pafs through a room, it muft
ftrike fucceflTively the two fides of the room. Lockt.

A dignitary in cathedral churches.
For deans and canons, or prebends, of cathedral
churches, they were of great ufe in the church j
they were to be of counfel witli the bilhop for his
revenue, and for his government, in caufes eccle-

bullets, although it be a cannon-Jh'it.

tive principle.

The books of Holy Scripture ; or the
great rule.

judged by the weight of their m.iterials ; a whole
cannon weighing commonly eight thoufand pounds
j
a half cannon, five thoufand ; a culverin, four
thoufand five hundred \ a dcmi-culverin, three
thoufand ; which, whether it be in iron or brafs,
muft needs be very coftly.
itiy.
H^tlkir.i.
kt^ilkir.i.

Cry J.

To decay by fome corroiive or deA;uc-

3.

The making, or price, of thefe gunpowder inftruments, is extremely cxpenfive, as may beeafiiy

Cannon-ball.
1 n.f. [from cannon,
Cannon-bullet > ball, bullet, and
Cannon-shot.
The balls
3 jhot.}

The Indian air is deadly to thee grown i

Conon law is that law, Vhich is made and ordained in a general council, or provincial fynod,
of the church.
Ayliffe,
Thefe were looked on as Ispfed perfons, and
great feverities of penance wereprefcribed them by
the canons of Ancyra.
iiiilHngftect,

1.

So they redoubled llrokcs upon the foe. Shakrfp.
He had left all the cannon he had taken ; and
now he fent all iiis great cannm to a garrifon.

:

The laws made by eccleliaftical councils.

CA'NNON. «./. [^cannon, Fr. from canna,
Lat. a pipe, meaning a large tube.]
A great gun for battery.
2.
gun larger than can be managed by
the hand.
They are of fo many fizes,
that they decreafe in the bore from a
ball of forty. eight pounds to a ball of
five ounces.
As cannons overcharged with double cracks,

Shakejpeare,

Canons in logick are fuch as thefe: every part
of a divlfion, fingly taken, muft contain Iefs than
the whole J and a definition mull b- peculiar and
proper to tlie. thing defined.
IVatts,

—

Feacbam.

1 am not ghd, that fuch a fore of time
Should fcelc a plaiAer by a contenm^d revolt.
And heal th' inveterate canker of one wound
By making many,
Shakiffearc.

Religious canons, civil laws, are cruel

Then what (hould war be ?

The fquarc i^ taken by a pair of cannipers, or

An eating or corroding humour.

5.

is written in all men's hearts;
thft
church had for ever, no iefs than now, ftood bound
to obferve them, whether the apoflle had mentioned them, or no«Hooker,
His books are almoft the very mbou to judge
both dodtrine and difcipline by.
Hooker,

In

of a

fliatt

a law.

;

law, which

Before Corioli, he fcotcht him and notcht him
like a carbonado.
Had he been cannibal!)' given,
he might have broiled and eaten him too. Skaktfp.

Sbaiefpeare.

A rule

The truth is, they are rules and canons of Khif.

the manner of a cannibal.

dogrofe.

To put down Richard, that fwect lovely rtjfc.

1

Bemley.

Ca'nnibally. art'i'. [from canitibal.']

the

;

CA'NON. n.f. [x<i»^,.]

more difficult than all

the reft ?

j

A kind of wild worthlefs rofe

Others made rafts.of wood ; others devifed the
bout of one tree, called the canoa, which the Gauls,
upon the Rhone, ufed in aflifting the tranfpdrtation of Hannibal's army.
Kaleigbm
\n a war againft Semiramis, they had four
thoufand monoxyla, or canoes of one piece of
timber.
Arbuthnot on Coins,

Crar.ville.

jilierliiitj.

4.

the trunk of a tree into a

hollow veflel.

If an eleventh commandment had been given,
Thou flialt not eat human fleih j would not thefc

fuming moth, in the eftate that we leave them.

All to your feveral ftates with fpced refort j
Walle in wild riot what your land allows.
There ply the early feaft, and late caroufe. Pipe.

Canoe', j

With fiery glances mocks their rage, and dies.

Sacrilege may prove an eating canker, and a con-

No longer live the cankers of my court

Locke.

A boat made by tutting

n.f.

;

men"$ ertates,

cannot but believe many a child can tell twenlong before he has any idea of infinity at all.

CA^o'A.')

Yet braves his foes, reviles, provokes, difdains j

tValion't Angler.

It is the canker and ruin of many

1

ty,

The anthropophagi.
Shakfepeare.
The captive cannibal, oppreft with chains.

Any thing that corrupts or confumes.

Hayvoard,

and »or ; noting inability.

It was my hint to fppak.
Of the cannibals that each other cat

There be of flies, caterpillars, canker flies, and

endamage the forces of tht

A word compounded of can

Ca'n NOT.

Davits en Ireland.

A fly that preys upon fruits.

did much

(kill

king.

.

thofc that die of themfelves, but of fuch as arc

Olway.

bear flies.

Did.

good

I b a l
». y.
An anthropophagite ;
a man-eater.
The cannibaU themfelves eat no man's flefli of

Ca'n n'

A canker worm of peace, was raised above him.

3.

Shakespeare.

A third was a moll excellent cannonier, whoie

Know, tliy name is loft.

A hufiing, (hining, ftatt'ring, cringing ct^w*"!,
2.

Give me the cups
J
And let the kettle to the trumpets fpeak.
The trumpets to the cannonier without.
The cannons to the hcav'ns, the heav'ns to earth.

with an envenoned

.Bitten

The

engineer that manages the cannon.

tooth.

Sfttifcr.

That which the locuft hath left, bath the canktr
worm eaten.
J^^y >• 4*

with cannon.

Addijon.

adVion.

Tatler.

To fire upon

Cannoni'er. ».y; [from ffl«»on.]

Ca'ukekbit. farticip. etc//, [from canter

or canker might

come from chancre, Fr. and cancer from

Both armies cannimadei all the cnfuing day.

A tithe purloin'd cankers the whole efiatc. Hcrhcrt.
To Cannona'de. 'u. a.
to pollute.
t. To infeft

when it denotes bad qua-

;

CAN

CAN

A N

A fmall bafket.

1.

;

.

y.

8.

[Among chirurgeons.] An inflrument
ufed in fcwing up woujids.
DiS.

A large fort of printing letter, probably fo called from being firft uled in
printing a book of canons ; or perhaps
L

1

from

;

from hs

fize,

and therefore properly

I

CA'NOPY. »./ [canofeum, low Lttt.'] A CANTA'TJ. n.f. [Ital,] A fong.
covering of llate over a throne or bed ; a
covering fpread over the head.

written cannon,

Ca'non BIT. «. /.

That part of the bit

She is there brough t unto a paled green.

let into the horle's mouth.
goodly pcrfon, and could manage fair
His ftubborn (lecvl with ca^6n bit.
Sfrnjtr.
under him did trample as the »r.

And pl^iced under a {lately canopy.
The warlike feats of both thofe knights to fee.

A

And fummon'd every reftlcfs eye to fteep. Vairfiix,

fecular canmejit, living after the example of (ecu
Ay'-jf'-

Cano'njcal. adj. \canouicus, low X<at.]
According to the canon.

a. Conftituting the canon.
Public readings tlicre are of bocks and wr;tings, not catxmictt, wiiereby the church doth »lfo
preach, or openly make known, the doctrine of
}li(,^tr.
virtuous cODverfation.
No fuch book was fount) ^mongft thofe cammcal
Raleigh.
fcrlptures.

3

Regular ; ftated; fixed by ecclefiaftical
laws.
Seven times in a day do I praife thee, faid David

:

from this definite number feme ages ol the church
took their pattern tor their caitotiUai hours. TayUr4. Spiritual ; ecclefiaftical ; relating to

the church.

York anciently ha.l a metropolitan jurifdiflion
over all the bifliops of Scotland, from whom tlicy
had their confecration, and to whom they fwore
Ay/ife.

unciiicisi obedience.

Cano'nicallv. aJ-v. [from canomcaL]
In a manner agreeable to the canon.
It is a known ttory of the friar, who, on a
fading day, bid his capon be caip, and then very
Gmcrnmni oftht tor.gut.
catsaikally eat it.

Cano'nic ALNESS. »./. [itom canonical.']

Th» quality of being canonical.
Ca'nonist. n. f. [from canoit."]

A man

veried in the ecclefiaftical laws ; a profeiTor of the canon law.
John Hlhcr, biHiop of Rochefler, when the
Icing would have tranflatcd him from tliat poor
he rcfufcd, faying, he would not forfake his poor little old wife ; thinking of the fifteenth canon of the Nicene council, and that of the
biflioprick,

CBnomJis,

Matrmomum inter ef'tfccfum & ecc/ijium

iji coKtracium,

&e.

Camden's

reproach for hypocrites, who talk forma llyof religion, without obeying it.

RtrtMir.s.

'

CaNTEP-BURY bells. SepBELFLOWER.

^ow fpi-ead the night her fpangled canopy.

Ca'noness. »./. [caKj^i^, low Lat.]
There are, in popidi counuiej, women they tail
lar canons.

Canta'tion. n.f. [from canto, Lat.]
The aft of finging.
Ca'nter. n. f. [from cant.] A term of

Fairy ^tm.

Who

1.

CAN

CAN

CAN

Nor will the raging fever's fire abate
With golden cancfks, and beds of (late. Drydtn.
To Ca'nopy. <K. a. [from the noun. J To
cover with a canopy.
The birch, the -myrtle, and the bay,

Canterbury GALLOP.

Like friends did all embrace;

And their large branches did difplay
Dryicn,
To canfy the place.
Ca'norous. adj. \canoTtt$, Lat.] Mufical ;

tuneful.

Bitds that are moft canorom, and whofe notes we

moil commend, are of little throats, and fliort.
Brotvn's Vulgar Erroun.

CANT. a./, [probably from cantus, Lat.
implying the odd tone of voice ufed by
vagrants ; but imagined by fome to be
corrupted from quaint.]
1. A corrupt dialeft ufed by beggars and
vagabonds.
2. A particular form of fpeaking, peculiar
to fome certain dais or body of men.
write not always in the proper terms of niivigation, land feivice, or in the cant of any profclfion.
I

Drydtn.
If we would trace out the original of that flagrant and avowed impiety, which has prevailed
among us for fome years, »c fhould find, that it
owes its rife to that cant and hypocrify, which
had taken pod'efiion of the people's minds in the
jiddifcni Freebaldcr.
times of the great rebellion,
Aftrologers, with an old paltry cant, and a few
pot-hooks for planets, to anuife the vulgar, have
too long been fullered to abufe the world,
Sivifi's PrediSliomfer the Tear 1701.
few general rules, with a certain ctf/rr of words,
has fometimcs fet up an illiterate heavy writer for
a moft judicious and formidable critick.
yiddtfon's SpfHator,

A

3.

Of whole liiaoge crimes no cencmft can tcil

A whining pretenfion to goodnefs, in
formal and affefled terms.

Inwhatcummandment's large contents they dwell.

Of promife prodig^il, while pow'r you want.

P!,p,.

The hand gallop of an ambling

horfe,

commonly called a canter

faid

CANTHA'RWES. n.f. [Latin.] Spanidi
ufed to r.aife blifters.

flies,

are bred of 3 worm, or
but peculiar to certain fruit trees ; a>
are the fig-tree, t"he pine-tree, and the wild brier }
all which bear fwcet fruit, and fruit that hath a
kind of fccret biting or Iharpnefs : for the fig
hath a milk in it that is fweet and corrofne ;
the pire apple hath a kernel that is 5rong and
Bacon's Natural H-Jicry.
abrterfivc.

The flics, cantbarida,

caterpillar,

CA'NTHUS. n.f [Latin.] The corner
of the eye. The internal is called tli«
greater, the external the lefler canthus.
^uincy.
A gentlewoman ^vas feized with an inflammation and tumour in the great canthus, or angle
of her eye.

f^ijeynan*

Ca'nticle. n.f. [from Mw/ff, Lat,]
fong

:

ture.
This right of

eflate, in fome nations, is yet
mote fignificantly exprelTcd by Mofes in his canticles,

in theperfon of God to the Jews.
Bacon's IJoly ff'jr.

Canti'livers,

n.

Pieces of wood

/.

framed into the front or other fides of
an houfe, to fuftain the moulding and
Moxon's Mecb. Exercijes,
eaves over it,

Ca'ntion. n.f. [^cantio, Lat.] Song;
Not now in ufe.
verfes.
In the eighth eclogue the fame pcrfon Wi(»
brought in finging a caution of Collin's making.
SpenJ. Kal. Git.
.

CA'NTLE, n. f. [iant, Dutch, a corner
efchantiilon ,

Fr. a piece.]
'

Skinnti'.

S:i how this river eomes, me crinkling in,
And cuts me from the beft of all my land

It is very fufpicirus, that the intcrtfts of parti-

Barbarous jargon.
The nfftftjtion of fome hte.aothors, to intro-

A huge half-moon, a nionflrous f<i»f/c our.

duce and multiply cum words, is the moft nfinous
Sivift.
corruption in any language.

To Ca'ntle. "v. a. [from the noun.]

a.

[from

cation,

to

put into the canon, or rule for obferv-

mg fefiivals.] To declare any man a
faint.
The king, defircas to bring into the houfe of
Ljncafter celcrtial honour, became fuitrr to pope
Julius, to eancniiu king Hcury

VL for a faint.
Bacaii.

Bjr thofe hymns all Ihall approve
Us crtMw/asVfor love.

Vannc.

They have a pope too, who hath the chief care
of religion, and of camnixing whom he thinks fit,
and thence have the honour of faintj. StlUhigfcet.
Ca'nonry. 1 M. /. [from f««»».] An

Ca'nonship. 5

ecclefiaftical benefice in

fome cathedral or collegiate church,
which has a prebend, or a ftated allowance out of the revenues of fuch church,
commonly annexed to it.
Ayiiffe.
Ca'nopied. fl.^'. [from f<JBfl/>y.] Covered
with a canopy.
I fat me d:!wn to watch upon abanic,
Wiihi/yCiiuo^^V, and intcr*ovt

With ilauating baaeyfuckic>

5,

fell

their leafes by cant, even

thofe which were for lives,

Hitiift.

To
[from the noun.]
the jargon of particular profeffions ; or in any kind of formal, affcfted language ; or with a peculiar and

To Cant. 'v. n.

ftudied tone of voice.

Men cajii about materia and forma hunt chimeras by rules of art, or drcls up ignorance in
words of bulk or found, wKiih may ftop up the
',

mov>th of enquiry.

1

'

'

For four times talking, if one piece thou take.

That muil be cantted, and the judge go fn;i;k.
Dry den's ywuenaU

Ca'ntlet. »._/! [hom cantlt.] Apiece;
a fragment.
Nor ihicid nor armour can their force oppofc j

Huge canttcts of his buckler ftrew the ground.

And no defence in his bor'd arms is found. Dryd,

CA'NTO. n.f. [Ital.] A book, or feftion,
of a poem.

Why, what would you do ?
.—Make a willow c.ibbin at your gate,
And call upon my foul within the houfe;

Clan-a'itle.

Tkat uijcouth aflfcfled garb of fpeech, or cai.i ng
language la'Jicr, if I may fo call it, which tliey
have of late taken up, is the fignal dillin£lian and
charaflciiftical note of that, which, in that their
new language, they cill tlie godly f arty. SanJerfin.
The bufy, fubtile ferpenta of the law
Did firft my mind from true obedience draw
While I did limits to the king prefcribe.
And took for oracles \\\^t canting tribe. R(/fccm>non.
Un/kill'd in fchemcs by planets to fotelKo\i,
''
Like canting rafcals, bow the wai* will go.
Drydtn' i 'Juvtiul.
%

To

cut in pieces.

talk in

-

MiUt:

Shaleff care's H,nry IV.

Auftion.
Numbers of thefe tenants, or their dcfcendants,
are nov/ offering to

;

A piece with

cular families, or churches, have too great a fway
jidcajon.
in cammaiaticns.

To Ca'nonize. t.

A

ufed generally for a fong in fcrip-

corners.

Vrjden*i Aurcngsiebe.

;

to be derived from the monks riding
to Canterbury on eafy ambling horfes.

And preaching in the fcif-denying cant.

CanOnIZa'tiON. n. f. [from canonize.]
The aft of declaring any man a faint.

[Inhorfeman-

fhip]

Write loyal ^iinrw of contemned love.
Sbakefpeare't Twelfth Nigii'

CA'NTON. '»./
1.

A fmall parcel or divifion of land.
Only that little canton of land, called the Englilh pale, containing four fmall /hires, did maintain

a bordering war with the Irifh, and retain the form

of Englifh government.
2.

Davies*

A fmall community, or clan.
The flme is the cafe of rovers l>y land ; fuch.

•

.

CAP

CAP

CAN

-to drink their way to it.

Saccn's Hc!y War

To Ca'nton. v. a. [from the noun.]

'<?

To

Lsilii.

It would certainly be for the good

H'atti an the Mir.d,

To Ca'ntonize. I", a. [ from f ««/»«.]

To

Bacon,

This cnmeol canva^ng, or foliciting, for church
preferment, is, by the canon law, called fimnny.
Aylifei Parergcn,

1.

Full of canes.

2,

Confiding of canes.

Mikcn.

A

little fong.

Vecchi was moft plealing of all others, for his
conceit and variety, as well his madrigals as can-

1

n. /.

[cap,

cappe.

Germ,

capa.

Span,

Wellh

cappe,

;

csppe. Sax.

Fr.

cappa, Ital.

kappe,

DavUs en Ireland.

Taking her afier-dinner nap.

fuch kind

4.

fifting

5.

voices,

it

a

6.

To Ca'nvass.

[Skinner derives it
from cannabajfcr, Fr. to beat hemp ;
which being a very laborious employment, it is ufed to fignify, to fearch diligently into.]
fit't ;

to

'V.

ceive.
I am much bound to God. that he hath endued
you with one coptihle of the beft inrtruftions.

Digby,

whofe ca-

5.

6.

A piece of lead

examine, [from canvafs,

2.

;

to di'cnfi.

ar'-

ext

t'.

in, oppolition

or

em Na-

tion ; to name aktrnajely in conteft.

!

I'll

work the means

SbakeJ'pcare^s King Lear,

8. It has the particle of before a noun.
Wriat fecrei fprlng-i their eager pailions move.
How capable nf ear for injor'd hve Dryd. l^irg,
1

To cap verjes. To name alternately
verfes beginning with a particular letto name

T'o make thee capable.

e jiint are

To deprive of the cap.

ter ;

Tilhtfon.

Of my land.

another, as boy, fometimes ufc to cap one another,
the fam' is f>ralght felony.
Spenfer on Ireland.

3.

capable i.f.

Qualified for ; without legal impedi-

Loyal and natural b.'y

I» one, Dv aniilt-.erccafiiM, take any thing from

have made cireful fearch r>n all hands and
tanvajjed the matter with all poflible d li^erce.
WMdtviird,

The curs d fcovered a raw hide in the bottom
of a river, and lai^t their leads together how to
come at it thej' camtfiJl^ matter ouc way and

1

believes the goodnefs of

ment.

capped with a
fmvith cartilaginous fubfrance, fervij.g both to
anl
ttr'-ngth
motioi.
Derham.

1

To debate

There is no man that

God, but muft be inclined to thi.nk, that he hath
made fome things for as long a duration as they

To Cap.i'. a, [from the noun.]
1. 'I'o cover on the top.
T'e bones

Prior,

Qualified for ; without any natural im-

pediment.

7.

tion.

Sufceptible.

The loul, immortal fubflance, to remain
Confciou, of joy, and capable of pain.

One of the regalia
carried before the king at the corona-

a.

a Draining cloth.]

2.

Would make them capable. Sbairjpearr's Hamlet.
capacious ; able to re-

prime.
7. Cap 0/ maintenance.

Bacon.

Watts.

able to underftand.

;

A veflel made like a cap.

Cap of a great gun.

capable

4. Intelleftually

laid over the touch-hole, topreferve the
:

a

Look you, how pale he glares;

L'EJirange.

feet of air, will
not ferve a diver above a quarter of an bour.
Wikins.

of

be

His form and caufe conjoin'd, pre.^ching to ftones',

vity will contain eight cubical

or trying
fignilics

conlider with yourfelf whether he

judge.

A reverence made by uncovering the 3. Intelligent

It is obfcrved, that a barrel or cap,

Addijon.

Th're be that can pack cards, and yet cannot
fo thcrj arc fome that are g'ldd in can'
play well
vajfei and faAions, that are otherwif- weak men.

'i'o

the higheft.

Sbahfpeare's Ilcnry IV.
Should the want of a cap or a cringe fo mortally difcompofe him, as we find afterwards it

fieve.]

1.

;

did.

to the decifive aft

voting, [from caava/s, as

The topmoft

may

compulforily bring under the lefs worthy, is idle.
Saccn,
When you he ir any porfoii give his judgment,

bead.
They more and lefs came in with cap and knee,
Met htm in boroughs, cities, villages.

Thou, Kneiler, long with noble pride.

of

To fay, that the more capable, or the better
deferver, hath fuch right to f,overn, as he

Shaiefpeare^f timon.

Now abfent, every little noife can wound. Drydin.

aft

ticular thing.

Thou art the cap of all the fools alive.

Fairfax,

;

The

Endued with powers equal to any par-

2.

The enfign of the cardinalate.

Sbakclfteare^s Henry VI.

fight.

them previoufly

When we confider fo much of that fpace, as !a
equal to, or capahte to receive a body of any aflictncj
dimenfions.
Loike,

Sivift,

He 'd make his cap coequal with the crown.
3.

Sbakcfpeare,

Sufficient to contain; fufficiently 'capa-

1.

Henry the FJfih did fometimes prophefy,
ir once he came to be a cardinal.

And fpreads his flying caimafs to the found
Him whom no danger, were he there, could fright.

2.

To ruft in us unus'd.

CA'PABLE. adj, [capable, Fr.]
cious.

Tbomfcn^s Autumn,

paflton haftei the prince to

The foremoft of thy art, haft vied
With nature in a generous ftrifc.
And touch 'd the eanvafi into life*

That capab'd-.ty and godlike reafon

For which they roughen to the fenfc.
2.

Ca-

'\

Looking before and after, gave us not

The cap, the whip, the mafculine attire,

Waller.

With

Capabi'lity. n,/, [from capable,

The garment that covers the head.

Sfenpr.

Where'er thy navy fprcads her canvaji wings.
Homage to thee, and peace to all, flic brings.

Having, for trial lake, filtered it through cap^dftr, there remained in tho- fiitre a powder. B'yle.

Firft, lolling floth in woollen caf.

the cairvufi they could, and fly homeward. Sidney.
And eke the pens, that did his pinions bind,
Were like main yard* with flying cam/aft lin'd,

And btild a city in an hour's fpace.

paper.
So called from being formed
into a kind of <;a/ to hold comaiodities.

pacity; the quality of being capable.
Sure he that made us with fuch large difcouife.

CA'NVASS. n.f. [canevas, Fr. cannabis,

Their eanvafi eaftles up they quickly rear,

Dan. and Dutch ;

A fort of coarfe browuilh

Cap-paper.

caput, a head, Latin.]
Here is the cap your worihip did befpeak.—
—Why, this was moulded on a porringer,
A velvet dilh. Shakcff/are'i Taming tte Strcn.
1 have ever held my caft ofl^to thy fortune.—
•—Thou haft ferv'd me with much faith, iitai.

neit aijoioing, with the maritime towns.

woodloufe,
.That folds up itfelf in itfelf for a houfe.
As rsund as a ball, without head, without tail,
Inclos'd cap a pe \n n rtrong coat of mail. S'wiff*

Pcacham,

xonets,

CAP.

referving only the city of Dublin, and the canlrcdt

Lat. hemp.]
1. A kind cf linen cloth woven for feveral
ufes, as fails, painting cloths, tents.
The mafter commanded forthwitli to fet on all

Arm'd at all points exa^Jily, cip a pe.
Appears before them, and," with folemn march.
Goes flow and (lately by them. Shatefp. Ilamlet.
There for the two contending knights he font
Arm'd cnp a pie, with rev'rencc low tlicy bent.
Dryden,

A

With fails and wind, tlieir cany waggons light.

Ca'nzonet. n, /, \cansu)nttta,\tz\.'\

Jltf''litr\',

ters.

Cap a pe. \ [cap a pi'i, Fr.] From head
Ca p a pie. j to foot ; all over.
A figure like your fither,

But in his way lights on the barren plains

For cantre, in

the Britifti language, fignifieth an hunCotvell.
dred.
The king regrants to him JHl that province,

him to read, before he ventures at capping cha as-

Of Sericana, where Chinefes drive.

.

an hundred i^ England.

Conjcrntncnt of tbeT'^n^uc.

There is an author of ours, whom I w^uld di lire

Ca'nv. aJj, [from cane,"]

Davies tin Ireland.

amongft a very few in number, of whom fome had
Hvwet.
regal rights.
>
Ca'ntred. tk'yi The fame in Wales as

Sure it is a pitiful pretence to ingenuity tiat
can be thus kept up. there being little need of' a .y
other faculty but memory, to be able to cap e ts,

to try

;

man.

parcel out into fmall divillons.
Thus was all Ireland r<!ijM<i/»fi/ among ten per-

The whole f.'reft was in a manner cantonixed

To folicit

Elizabeth being to refolve-upon an officer, and
being, by fome that canva[jed for others, put in
fome doubt of that perfon flie meant to advance,
faid, fhe was like one with a lanthorn feeking a

Families rtiall i, .it all fubjeflion to him, and
cOriUn hii empire inco Icfs governments for thcm-

of mankind,
to have all the mighty empires and monarchies
of the worW canlmedout into petty ftates and prinMififon on Italy.
cipalities.
The late king of Spain, reckoning it aii indignity to have his territories (anrtied out into
parcels by other princes, during his own life, and
without his conlfnc, rather chofc to bequeath the
monarchy entire Co a younger fon of France. Siv:/:.
They canttn out to themfclves a little province
in the intclle^ual world, where they fancy the
light Ihines, and all the rell is in darknefs.

Ca'nvass. -v. n.

L'EJlratige.

votes previoufly to the decifive aft.

divide into little parts.

felves.

Where Henderfon, and th' ottier manej,
Were fent to cap tex s, and put cafes. Hudilrajt,

t'other, and concluded, that the way to get it, was

»» yet, we foroe urtom in ArabiSi and fome petty
kings of the mountains aiJi»«ntto ftraitsand way?

fons of the Englilh nation.

;

9.

Hollow.

!

This fenl'e is not now in ufe.
Lean but op 'n a ruHl,

The cicatrice, and capable impr-irnrc,
Tli; ?alro fame mom nu keeps. Shak, As you like it,

Ca'pablEn ES.s. «./. [fronv capable.'^ 'I'lie
quality or ft.ite ol being ciip ible ; knowledge ; umlerllanding ; power of mind.

L

1

2

CAPA'CIOUS.

.

CAP
Wide ; large

;

C KV

C A P

CAPA'CIOUS. adj. [capax, Lat.]
1

At jouS and tournament.
ParadifcLoft.
Some wore a breaftplate, and a light iuppon i

Beneath th' inccfTant werping of thafe draiat
I fee the rocky fiphons ftrctch'd immcnfe.
The mighty referroirs of hardened chalk
Or Aiff compafled clay, cafamui found.

Their horfes cloath'd with rich caparijon.

fo Capa'rison.

-v.

[from the noun.]

a.

The ftccds caparijim'd with purple fland,

knowledge,

a eafaciout mind, who write and fpeak very ob-

Drydm.
in a ludicrous fenfe.

IVatis.

Todrefspompoufly

2.

:

Ca'pillahy. adj. [from capillus,

Refembling hairs ; fmall ; minute: ap-

1.

plied to plants.
Capillary or capillaceous plants, are fuch as have
no main fl:ilk or Hem, but grow to the ground, as
hairs on the head ; and which bear their feeds in
little tufts or protuberances on the backlide of

•

;

largenefs.

«/. [cape, Fr.]
A concave meafure, of known and denominate Cape.
I. Headland;

promontory.
What from the cape can you difcern at fea ?—
—Nothing at all ; it is a high wrought flood.

capacity, ferves to meafure the cepaCKtifnefs of any

cihcr vcffcl. In like manner to a given weight the
weight of all other bodies may be reduced and fo
found out.
Holder on Tm(.

To make capable

;

Sbakefpeare'i Othello.

The parting fun.

\{Tomeapacity.'\

Beyond the earth's green cape and verdant ides,

to enable ; to qaa-

Hefperean fets ;

By this inftru£lion we may be tafaciitttd to cbfcrve thofe errours.

Dryden,
Thefe fort of men were fycophants only, and
were endued with arts of life, to cafacitaic them
for the converfation of the ricii and great. Tatlir.

my fignal to depart. Paradife LoJI.

The Romans made war upon the TarentJnes,
and obliged them by treaty not to fail beyond the
cape.
Arbuthmt.

lify.

&ba1ie(ftttrt.

pickle.

;
fpace.
There remained, in the capacity of the exhaullcd
cylinder, ftore of little rooms, or fpaces, empty or

devoid of air.

3.

Boyle.

The force or power of the mind.
No iateile£iual creature is able, by capacity, to

do that which nature doth without capacity and
Icnowledge.
Hockrr.
In fpiritual natures, fo much as there is of deilre, fo much there is alfo of capacity to receive. 1
do not (ay, there is always a capacity to receive t'le
very thing they defire, for that may be impoflible.

for eating.

A

5. State ; condition ; charaAer.
miraculous revolution, reducing many from
the head of a triumphant rebellion to their old
condition of mafons, fmiths, and carp<'nter$; that,
in this capacity, they m'ght repair what, as colonels and captains, they bad ruined and defaced.
South.
You defire my thoughts as a friend, and not as
a member of parliament ) they are the fame in bot)]

A

rspacitias.

Svfijt.

CAPA'RISON. »./ [f/tparazon, a great
cloke. Span.]
A horfe-clothj or a fort
of cover for a horfe, which isfpread over
Farrier^s Dil}.

Tilting furniture, eraWazon'd Ihields,
Impteflet quaint, eaftrifins, aad ftecds,

Criminal in the higheft degree, fo as to
touch life.

Miller.

To Ca'per. %. n. [from the noun.]
I. To dance frolickfomelv.
The truth is, lam only old injudgment; and he
that will caper with me for a thoufand mark", let
him lend me the money, and have at him.

F.dmund, I arreft thee

On capital tieafim.

Sbakejpeare" t King hear.
Several cafes dcferve greater punilhment than

many crimes that are coital among us.
3.

In capital caufes, wherein but one man's life is

thi'ufands.

4.

Bacon*

Chief; principal.
I will, out of that infinite Bumber, reckon but
fome that arc moft capital, and commonly occur-

rent both in the life and conditions of private men.

Our mailer

SpcnfrroH Ireland,
fo
the r<7/>;ra/ enemies thereofCod hateth,a5hisdeadly
foes, aliens, and, without repentance, children of
endlefs perdition.
Hooker.
They do, in thcmfclves, tend to confirm the
truth of a rd^ifa/ article in religion.
Aitcrbury.

Caf'ring to eye her.
Shakefptare's Temptfi.
His nimble hand's inftinft then taughteach Aring

As to fwerve in tlie leaft p:>inis, is errour ;

A eap'rhg cheerfulnefs, and made them ling
To their own dance.

Crajbatv.

The family tript it about, and capered like hailftones bounding from a marble floor.

:

much

more in a judgment upon a war, which ii capital to

To fldp for merriment.

To dance

Siviji*

That which afFefts life.
in quedion, the evidence ought to be clear ;

Shakcjpcare^t Henry IV.

3.

Paradife Lo^.

Expeft with mortal pain.
2.

Arlutitoi'sjohn Bull.

Since the world's wide frame does net include
caufc with fuch cefacnics endued^
Some other caufc o'er nature muft prc&de. Blackm

a fmall ramifica-

Relating to the head.
Needs muft the fcrpent now his f «/iif.j/ bruifc

1

of the flowers, before they are open, are pickled

3.

;

Not ufed.

Nor is the humour contained in fmaller reins,
or obfcurer capillaticns, but in a veficle.
Broivn's f^ulgar Errours,

in Italy, upon old walls and buildings; and the buds

Power ; ability.

his fijrniture.

A vefTel like a hair
tion of veflels.

The fruit is flefliy, and ihaped like a pear. This
plant g ows in the South of France, in Spain, and

the duty of a foldier, and the capacity and prudence
of a genera'.
Dryden i Juvenal, Dedication.

'

Capilla'tion. n.f. [from capillus, Lat.]

Caper bush. »./. [capparis, Lat.]

South.
An heroic poem requires the accomplifliment of
fome extraordinary un Icrcaking ; which requires

4.

[capparis, Lat.]
See Caper bush.

femble the animal ferment in tafte and virtue, as
mangoes, olives, and capers. Floyer on the Humours.

Room

2.

one hair; and
the fmalleft lymphatick veiTcIs are an hundred times
fmaller than the fmalleft capillary artery.
Arhuthnot on Aliments.

as in the brain, arc not e^ual to

We invent new fauces and pickles, which re-

For they that mod and greatcft things embrace,
Enlarge thereby their mind's capacity.
Davits.
Space, conlidered in length, breadth, and thicknefs, I think, may be called eafaciiy.
Loikc.

^incy.

An acid CA'PITAL. adj. [capitalis, Lat.]

Ca'per. n./.

Shakefptare'i Tivilfih Night.

;

as the ramifications of the arteries.

Bacoti,

We, that are true lovers, run into ftrange capert \
but as all is mortal in nature, fo is all nature in
love mortal in folly.
Shak/fpeare's As you like it.
Ftimnap, the treafurer, is allowed to cut a caper,
on the ftrait rope, at lead an inch higher than any
other lord in the whole empire. Stviji^s Gul, Trav.

Had our palace the cafac'itj
To camp this haft, we would all fup together.

As ftreams eolarg'd, enlarge the channel's fpacr.

nor obferved to grow upon w.\ii3 but rather,
fome kind of capillaries, which arc very fmall plants,
and only grow upon walls and (lony places.
Brcwn^s Vulgar Errouri.
2, Applied to velTels of the body : fmall
bles,

He was cloathed in a robe of fine black cloth,
with wide fleeves and cape.

any thing.

Sluincy,

Our common hylTop is not the Icaft of vegeta-

Ten capillary arteries in fbme parts of the bouy,

Capa'citv. tt./. [capacite, Fr.]
CA'PER. n.f. [from caper, Latin, a goat.]
|. The power of holding or containing
A leap; a jump; a ikip.

Notwithftanding thy capaciiy
Receiveth as the fea, nought enters there.
Of what validity and pitch foe'er.
But fails into abatement and low price.

their leaves.

The neck-piece of a cloke.

z.

hair,

Lat.]

Don't you think, though I am caparifoned like
a man, I have a doublet and hofe in my difpofi
tion ?
Shaktjpeare'i A' you like it.

Capa cioustiESS. n.f. [from capacious.^

^incy,

are called capillatnents.

With golden trapping , glorious to behold.
And champ betwixt their teeth the foaming gold.

The power of holding or receiving

[capillamentum,
n. /.
Lat.] Thofe fmall threads or hairs which
grow up in the middle of a flower, and
adorned with little herbs at the top,

To drefs in capdrifons.

1

or great defign.
There are fume perfons of a good genius, and
fcureljr.

pillary,

Capi'llament.

bryden'i Fahlci.

th:ivjcni AutuBin,

2, Extenfive ; equal to much

CAfiLLn'czovi, adj. The fame with M-

Bafes, and tinfcl trappings, gorgeoui knights,

able to hold much.

Ti Capa'citate. v, a.

;

.

.

fpoken in contempt.

5.

dance.
Nor capering monfieur from aftive France. Rave.

Ca'perer. n.y. [fwm caper."]

Chief; metropolitan.
This had been
Perhaps thy capital feat, from whence had fprcad
All generations; and had hither come.
From all the ends of th' earth, to celebrate

The dage would need no force, nor fong, nor

A dancer:

And reverence thee, their great progenitor.

in contempt.

The tumbler's gamboU fome delight alFord

Paradife Lift,

But thcfe arc ftill infipid ftufl^to thee,

Applied to' letters large ; fuch as are
written at the beginnings or heads of

Coop'd in a /hip, and tofs'd upon tlie fea.

books.

No lefs the nimble caperer on the cord

6.

;

j

'

Drydcn't Juv,

Taylor's Holy Living*

One before judgment, called capias ad
adion perfonal,

return that he has no effedls in his jurifdidlion.

The firft is written in capital letters, without

if

the (hcrifF, upon the firft writ of diftrefs,

Our moft confiderable actions are always pre-

fcnt, like capital letters to an aged and dim eye.

CAPIAS. n.f. [Lat.] A writ of two forts:
re/pottdendum, in an

:

chapters or verfcs.

7.

Grfiv*s Cofmo^ogia Sacra.

Capital Jlock.
The principal or original (lock of a trader or company.

The other is a writ of execution Ca'pital. n.f. [from the adjedlive.]
Cmutll. I. The upper paMVf pillar.

after judgment.

^^

Yua

;

CAP

CAP

Tou fee the volute of the lonick, the foliage of
the CorinthUn, and the uovali of the Dorick, mixed without any regularity on the fame cefi'.al.

This lodgment contwenty foldiers, and is
ufually placed at the extremity of the
counterfcarp, having little embrafures
made in them, through which they fire.

MiiiJ-:>t on Italy.

1. The chief city of a nation or kipgdom.
Ca'pitally. adii. [(tom capital, In a

den with
tains

C A P

>

a hahtaie, in that he does not yerk oiit

earth.

in a balotade.

fifteen or

Ca'pstan.

n.f.

Jlern ;

cabejian,

levers,

to

Farrier's Diil.
[corruptly called capFr.]
cylinder, with

A

wind up any great weight,

'\

He fuffereJ for not performing the commandment of God concerning rc^/Mjion tl.at, when the
;

people were numbered, for every head they thould

Brown.

pay unto God a (hekel.

CA'PITE. n.J. [from caput, capitis, Lat.]

A tenure which IiolHeth immediateiyof die king,
as of his crown, be it by knight's fervice or focagc,

and not as of any honour, c^ft!.?, or manour

;

and

therefore it is othervvifc called a tenure, that holdeth merely of the king ; becaufe, as the crown is a

corporation and fcigniory in grofs, as the common
lawyers term it, fo the king that polTeiTeth the
crown is, in account of law, perpetually king, and

CowtU.

never in his minority, nor ever dicth.

Capi'tular. n.f. [from capitulum, Lat.
an ecclefiaftical chapter.]
1. A body of Ilatutes, divided into chapThat this pradice continued to the time of
Charlemajn, appears by a conllitution in his capiTayitr,

A member of aj:hapter.
Canonifts do agree, that the chapter makes decrees and ftatutes, which fliall bind the chapter itfelf, and all its members ot cafiiuljrs.
Ayli^e'i Parfrgon.

To CAPI'TULATE. v. n. [from capitulum, Lat.]

To draw up any thing in heads or ar-

1 .

ticles.

Percy, Northumberland,
The archbifhop of York, Douglas, and Mortimer,
Calculate againll us, and are up. Shak. Henry IV.

To yield, or furrender up, on certain

2.

ftipulations.
The king took

it

for a

great indignity, that

thieves ihouid offer to capitulate with him as ene-

Uayward*

mies.

i ftill purfued, and about two o'clock this afterUpeElator.
noon ftie thought fit to capitulate.

Capitula'tion. n.f. [from capitulate.^
Stipulation ; terras ; conditions.
It was

not a complete conqucft, but rather a dedition upon terms and cap'itulatiom, agreed between
the conquerour and the conquered ; wherein, ufually,
the yielding P*"^/ fecured to themlelvet their law
Hale.
and religion.

Capi'vi tree, n.f,

{copaiba, Lat.]
This tree grows near a village called Ayapel, in
the province of Ant'cchi, in theSpanilh Weft Indict, about ten days journey from Carthagcna.
Some of them do net yield any of the balfam
thofe that do, are diftinguifljed by a ridge which
runs along their trunks. Thefe trees ate wounded
in their centre, and they apply veffels to the wound.

One of thefe trees
ed part, to receive the balfam.
Miller.
will yield five or fix gallons of balfam.
7i»

Capo'ch.
ly what

this

"J.

a.

I

know not diftinft-

word means ; perhaps,

to

new.

Saleigh's EJfays.

No more behold thee turn my watch's key,

of picquet.

As feamen at a capfian anchors weigh.

Swift,

To Capo't. v. a. [from the noun.] When Ca'psular. ladj. [capfula, Lat.] Holone party has won all the tricks of cards Ca'psulary.^ low like a cheft.
at picquet, he is faid to have capotled
It afcendeth notdirecHy unto the throat, but afhis antagonift.

Capo'uch. n.f.

[capuce, Fr.]

hood.

A monk's
DiiH.

Ca'pper. n.f. [from
makes or fells caps.

cending firft into a capfulary reception of the brealtbone, it afcendeth again into the neck.
Sroiun's Vulgar Errotirt,

One who Ca'psulate. \adj. [capfu/a,Lzt.']laCa'psulated. j clofed, or in a box.

cap."]

Capre'olate. aj/. [from

capreolus,

Seeds, fuch as are corrupted and ftale, will fwira
;
and this agrceth unto the feeds of plants locked up
and capfulaicd in their hulks. Brotvn's Vulg. Er.

a

tendril of a vine, Lat.]

Such plants as turn, wind, and creep along the
ground, by means of their tendrils, as gourds, melons, and cucumbers, are termed, in botany, eaHarris.

prfolate plants.

CAPRrCF,.

ters.

tular.

The weighing of anchors by the capfian i< alfo

CAPO'T. n.f [French.] Is when one party
wins all the tricks of cards at the game

Lat.] Numeration by heads.

2.

particularly to raife the anchors.

Harris.

capital manner.

Capita'tion.«./. [frotn caput, the head.

In.f [caprice, Fr. capri-

CJPRrCHIO. j

Freak ; fancy ; whim ; fudden change of humour.
ci>o. Span.]

It is a plcafant fpe£tacle to behold the Ihifts,
windings, and unexpcdlcd caprichios of diftrelTed
nature, when purfued by a clofe and well-managed
experiment.
Glanv'dW's ScepJIs, Preface.
We are not to be guided in the fenfeof that book,
either by the mifreports of fome ancients, or the
eaprichiot of one or two neotcrics.
Grew.
Heav'n's great view is one, and that the whole j
That counterworks each folly and caprice.
That difappoints th* effect of ev'ry vice.
Pope.
If there be a fingle I'pot more barren, or more
diftant from the church, there the reflor or vicar
may be obliged, by the caprice or pique of the

bilhop, to build.
Their paffions move in lower fpheres.

Sivift.

The heart lies immured, oz capfulated, in a cartilage, which includes the heart as

adj.

[capricieux,

being one of thofe who, by
tenure in capite, were obliged to bring
foldiers to the war.
1.
chief commander.
capitaneus ;

A

Difmay'd not this

Our captaint, Macbeth and Banquo ? Shak. Mact.

The chief of any number or body of

2.

men.
Naihan (hall be captain of Judah.
He fent unto him a captain of fifty.

C;> PRi'ciousLY. adv.

A fubjeik ought to fuppofe that there are reafons, although lie be not apprifedof them ; otherwife, he muft tax his prince of capricioufnef:, inStuifi.
conftancy, or ill defign.

Kings.

frrewiab,

A man /killed in war; as, Marlborough

3.

4.

was a great captain.
The commander of a company in a regiment.
A captain ! thefe villains will make the name of
captain as odious as the word occupy i therefore cap.,
tains had

need look to it.

Sbakefpearc^ s Henry IV.

The grim captain, in a furly tone.
Cries out,

Pack up, ye rafcals, and be gone

!

Dryden.

The chief commander of a fliip.

5.

The Rhudian captain, relying on his knowledge,
and the lightnefs of his vcfliil, pafl'ed, in open day,
through all the guards.
Arhutbmt on Coins,

[from capricious.']

Whimfically ; in a manner depending
wholly upon fancy.
Capri'cio-jsneis.»./. [from capricious.]
The quality of being led by caprice, humour, whimficalnefs.

Numbirs,

The captain of the guard gave him viftuals.

Fr. ]

Whimfical ; fanciful ; humourfome.

Derham.

CA'PTAIN. n.f [capitain, Fr. in Latin

Where'er caprice or folly ftcers.
Sivift.
All the various machines and utenfils would now
play
odd
quite
pranks and caprices,
conand then
trary to their proper ftru£iures, and defign of the
BcntUy.
artificers.

Capri'cious.

the fkuU doth

the brain.

6. It was anciently written capitain.
And evermore their cruel capitain
Sought with his rafcal routs t' enclufe them round.
Fairy ^ueen,
7.

Captain General.

The general or com-

mander in chief of an army.
8.

Ca'pricorn. n.f.[capricornus,L.zt.] One
of the figns of the zodiack ; the winter

Captain Lieutenant.

The commanding

officer of the colonel's

troop or compa-

ny, in every regiment.
as youngeft captain.

He commands

Ca'ptainry.

folftice.

n.f. [horn captain.] The
power over a certain diftrid j the chief-

Let the longcA night in Capricorn be of fifteen
hours, the day confequently muft be of nine.
Notes to Creeches Manilius.

tainlhip.

fuch as a

There Ihould be no rewards taken for eaplainriei
of counties, no Ihares of bilhopricki for nominating of biftiops.
Spenfer,

A caftrated

horfe makes in one and the fame place,
without advancing forwards, and in fuch

Ca'ptainship. n.f. [from captain.]
1. The condition or pod of a chief com-

In good roaft beef my landlord Ricks his knife
The cap'.n fat J-lights his dainty wife. Gay't Pnfl.
CJPONNIETRE. n.f. [Fr. A term in
fortification.] A covered lodgment, of
about four or five feet broad, encompaiTed with a little parapet of about two
feet high, ferving to^port planks la-

a manner, that when he is in the air, and
height of his leap, he yerks or ftrikes
out with his hinder legs, even and near.
A cafriole is the raoft difficult of all the
high manage, or raifed airs. It is different from the eroupade in this, that the
horfe docs not Ihow his Ihoes ; and from

firjp off the hood.

CJPRIO'LE. n.f [French. Inhorfeman-

Capoch'd your rabins of the fynod.

And ftiapt the canons with a why not.

Ca'pok. ». /.

\_capo,

Lat.]

Ihip.]
Hudihras.

cock.
;

Caprioles are

leaps,

mander.
Therefore fo pleafe thee to return with us.

And of our Athens, thine and ours, to take
The captainjhip.
Shakefpeare^s Timon,
2.

The rank, quality, or pod of a captain.
The lieutenant of the colonel's company might
well pretend to the next vacant taftainpip in the
fame regimcDt,

Wotion.

3.

The

.

.

3. The chicfuinfhip of a clan, or govern-

ment of a certain diflrift.
To diminilh the Irifli lords, he did aboUfli their
preten(1«d

CAR

CAR

t AP

and uiurfi i c/iptairjbifi-

My motlier, who the royal fceptre fwayM,

David oit Ire!

excellence.

My woman's heart

4. Skill in the military trade.

Capta'tion. n. J. [from capto, Lat.]
The praflicc of catching favour or ap-

A fmall carriage of burdcrt, ufually
drawn by one horfe or two.
When a laJy cnmci in a cAach to our (hops, it

1.

Was captive to the cruel victor madeDrjfden.
3. One charmed or enfnared by beauty or

Grofsly grew capt'rve to hjs honey words. Sbaiefp.

muff be followed by a car loaded with Wuod's
money.
S^-'Ji»
2. In poetical langtiage, any vehicle of

dignity or fplendour ; a chariot of war,
or tri-jmph.

[captivus, Lat.] Made
prifoner in war ; kept in bondage or

Ca'ptive. ac/J.

pJaufe ; courtlhip ; flattery.
I am content my Wist Ihould be difcovered,

Heniy js dead, and never (hall revise:

confinement, by whatever means.

wit'iout any of thufc dieHcs, or popular ca[itauoniy
which lorn; men ufe in their fpecchcs. K* Charles*

Upon a wo-xlen coffin we attend,

But fate forbids

the Stygian doods oppofe,
j
And with nins circling ftreams the captiie fouls
Drjdtr..
inddfe,

Ca'ption.;/./ [frcn capio, Lat. to take.]

ArjJ death's di (honourable viftory

We with lur (lately prefence ghrrify.
Like captivi-s bound to a triumphant car* Shakrjp*
Wile thori aftire to guide c; e heav'niy car.
And with ti-.y JjrJng fjily burn tlie world ? Sbak,

The aft of taking any perfon by a judi- To Ca'ptive. 11. a. [from the noun.] It
cial procefs.

was ufed formerly with the accent on
the laft fylhble, but now it is on the

CA'PTIOUS, adj. [captieux, Fr. captio/us,
Lat.
1

a condition of fervitude.

If he (hew a forwardnefi to be realbning about

But being all dciVatcd fuve a (ew,
Rather than (If, or bt c.iptrv'J, hcrieif (he (lew.
Spertfr.

Lode.

talking with him.

Of hejthcn and profane, their carcafles
To dogs and fowl^ a P^*y, ^^ ^^^^ captiv^d. Milttn,
What further fjEr of danger can there be ?
Beauty, which- captives all things, fets me free.

Ca'ptiously. aJ'v. [from tapthus.'] In
a captious manner with an inclination

Dryditi.

other.

Ca'ptiousn'ess.

And captive him who captives all.

Capt/vity.

?fl

Ca'ptivate.

f.

*.

The

Shah.

2.

fpace of fcventy

jiddifon. Guardian.

with to.
:
They lay a trap for themfelvss, and captivate

their underftandings to miftake, faifehood,

and

*r.

birds,

in

the invelligation and capture of th'Ji

prey.

Dcrb.:i!i.

The thing taken ; a prize.
acfj.

[from capuce,

Fr.

a

hood.] Covered over as with a hood.
They are diflereiitly cucuIUteJ and capucba:
upon the head and back ; and, in the cicadp, the
eyes arc more prominent.
Breton's Vulgar Err,

enemy.
You have the eaplivn.
Sbak.

no other than that forced rcfpeft a

captive pays to his cont^ueror, a (lave to his lord.
Jtogen.

Fr efrim (hame

Thy eafl'nm ; I calcic the penal claira.

a

Capuchi'k.

n. /.
female garment,
confining of a cloak and hooJ, made in
imitation of the drefs oi capuchin monks ;
whence its name is derived.

Car, Char., in the names of places, feem
Odyffey.

a. It is ufed with to before the captor.
If tbnu (ay i^ntony lives, 'tis well,

0( fticcds with CicCur, or not tapt'nie to him.
Shakijpeare.

To Ca'racole. t. n. [from the noun.]

To move in caracoles.
Ca'rat. 1
,
r.
}«•/• r carat, ¥i.\'T
,, .
•
Ca
ract. 3
.

\

The great fagacity, and many artj(iccs, u(fd by

z.

I

Farrier s DiP,

Fr. captura,

I. The aft or praftice of taking any thing.

Capu'chei).

i"*/)?'!

[capture,

Lat.]

CA'PTIVE.

One taken in war ; a prifoner to an

When the h.rfe adv.nvc ti charge :n battie,
they ride fometimes in caracoles, to amufe the
creray, and put them in doubt whctiier they are
about to charge them in the front or in tiie llank.

j4JJ:fsn.

He that takes a prifoner, or a prize.

Captiva'tion. ri. f. [from rapti'vate.']
The aft of taking one captive.
Lat.]

n.y. [caracole, Fr. from caracel. Span, a fnail.] An oblique tread,
traced out in femi-rounds, changing
from one hand to another, without obferving a regular ground.

well tim'd, 'tis not a fault to love;

Ca'pture. 71./.

h'^cke,

[captif, Fr. capti-vut,

fValhr.

Ca'racole.

Ca'ptor. «./". [from capio, to take, Lat.]

To enflave

is

In which r.ver, the grea.c.l carack of Portugal
majri Ic afloat ten miles within tlielbra. Raleigb*
"The bigger whale like fome h-ige caraik lay,
Whfch wanteth lea-room with her fees to piav.

The ftrong, the brave, the virtuous, and the wife,

with her appearance, that he gives himfcif up to

Who were the oppofi;es of this day's ftrife.

fliip of burden ;
tlie fame with thoic
which are now called galleons.

Decay of Piety.

When love

Chambe' !,

Ca'rack. n.f. [furiica, Spanilh.] A large

Slavery ; fervitude.

Sink in the foft captivity together.

Wifdom enters the lift, and fo caflivetei him

This

then brings them

Chrift.

to overpower with excel-

lence ; to fubdue.

g.

years;

For m--'n to be tied, and led by authority, as it
were with a kind of captivity of judgment; and
though there be reafon to the contrary, not to
liften unto it.
Hooker.
The apoftie tells us, there is a way of bringing
every thought into captivity to the obedience of

have the rational foyereignty of his fotil, and tlie
King Cbarles.
liberty of hi* will, fo eaf>ti'vated.
They ftand firm, keep out the enemy, truth,
Locke.
that would captivate or difturb them.

n./.

on foot.

Sbakefpeare.

Drj;de».

And fcnt our fons and hiilbands caft'niate, Shai.
He deferves to be a (lave, that is content to

crrour.

longer carabines than the reft, and uied fonretimes

back;

Wafted our country, (lain our citiiens,

%.

ihorter than a fufil, and carrying a ball
of twenty-four in the pound, hung by
the light horfe at a belt over the left
ftiouldcr.
It is a kind of medium between the pillol and the mufket, having
its barrel two foot and a half long.
Caraei.m'eh. «.y. [{vom carabine.'] A

in his captivity, than in his greateft triumphi.

Upon their woes whom fortune eapth)irte! /
Thou haft by tyranny thefc many years

hrr.

Dryden.

Ca'r ABINE. 7 «• y^ [cetrabine, Fr. ] A
Ca'rbinu. 5 f'nall fort of fire arm,

Rememb'ring mercy.
Milton.
Th» name of Ormnnd will be more celebrated

ill

;

The I'leiads, Hyads, and the Norihem Car,

fort of light horfe carrying

There in captivity he lets them dwell

How befeeming Is it in thy fex
To triumph, like an Amaionian trull,

To charm

ilellation.
Ev'ry fixt and ev'ry wand'ring ftar.

This is the fL^rjeant,

'Gainft my cttprivity.

dage.

z.

low Latin.]
Subjeftion by the fate of war; bondage ; fervitude to enemies.
1

captivo, Lat.]
To take prifoner ; to bring into bon-

.

Prior.

French;

[capti'vite,

The Charles's wain, or Bear; a con-

3.

Who, like a good and hardy foldier, fought

Fr.

[capti'ver,

n. /.

captiiiitasy
1.

Capikufnefs is a fault oppifite to civility; it
often prJduces mi/becoming and provoking ejtLcckf.
prcffions and carria^^e.

>

1

Yet miftrefs of hrrfelf, devis'd

How (hi the vagrant might enthral,

[from eaptiout,]

n. /.

Inclination to find fault ; inclination to
objeft ; peeviflmefs.

the god : the nymph furpris'd.

Still lay

;

LDcki.

In the itctp Atlantick fttcam.
Milten,
See where he cJmcs, the da.lin^ of the war I
See millions c.owding round tlie gildcdvar.' Prior.

Thou loawft them to hoftile fword

Infidious ; cnfnaring.
She taught him likewiie how to aToid fundry
eafti^i and tempting queftions, whichwerelike to
Bmcrt,
be afked of him.

to objeft.
Ufe your words as caplhtijty as you can, in youi
a'guing on one fide, and apply diftinftions on tin-

And r^ i gilded car of day.
His gi )"/t-ig axle doth allay

to bring into

;

Given to cavils ; eager to objeft.
things, take care that nobody check this inclination, or miflead it by cafiimi or fallacious ways of

2.

To take prifoner

firft.]

to have relation
city.

Car. n. f.

[car,

-^

A weight of four grains, with which
diamonds are weighed,
z. A manner of expreffiiig the finenefs of
1.

gold.
A matk, being an ounce Troy,

is

divided inta

twenty- fi.ui- equal paits, cJled carafis, and each
by this weight is diftinguilhed the different finenefs oi their gold ; for if
to the lineft of gold be put two carafis of alloy,
both making, when cold, but an ounce, ortwentyfoar caru^s, then this gold is faid to be twentycarali into four grains:

two carafis fine.
Cocker.
Thou beft of gold, art wor(t of gold ;
Other, Icfs fine in carat, is more precious. Shak.

a

CARAVA'N. n./. [cara-vanne, Fr. from

Gihjon's Camden.

the Arabick.]
troop or body of merchants or pilgrims, as they (ravel in
the Eaft.

to the

Wellh ;

Britifti caer,

iarre,

cpsz, Saxon ; carrus, Latin.]

Dutch;

A

They

\

;

And with foul cowardice his carcaji Ihame,

2.

matter before he prays for a change.
3.

Sbaitfpiare.

I

dark like a burning coal 3 from whence it harh its
fVilk'trt,
name.
Carburck is a flone of the ruby kind, of a rich

Wf-od-red colour.

2.

JV^'.d'wartl.

Red fpots or pimples breaking out upon

A

canrMal is fo ftiled, becaufe feniceable to
the apoAolick fee, as an axle or hin;^c on which
the whole government of the church turns ; or aa
they have, from the pope's grant, the hinge and
government of the Romiih church,
ylylifft^

You hold a fair alfembly ;
Yo-a arc a churchman, or, I'll tell you, cardinal,

[from xae""®'' »

I

The fpecics arc, i. Greater rampions, with a
crimfon fpiked flower, commonly called the fcarlet

^lincy.

thus called.

Carcino'matous. adj. [from carcino-

cardinal' s jUwer.

ma.] Cancerous ; tending to a cancer.

games of chance or /kill.

of a cardinal.

A vengeance on your crafty wither'd hide
Yet I have lac'd it with arurii' of ten. Sbjhfptare,

no

no purple or livid fpots, or the like,
Bcci,n.
mafs of the blood not being tainted.
Red bliners rifing on their paps appear.
And flaming fari««c/M, and noifomefweat. Dryd.

earhuncle,

An ingenious cavalier, hearing that an old friend
of his was advanced to a cardmalate, went to congratulate his eminence upon his a^yi honour.
L'KJlrange,

Soon as /he fpreads her hand, th' aerial guard
Defccnd, and lit on each important card\
Pcpe.
Firft, Ariel perch'd upon a matadore.

t^.e

1 .

\^{rotD.

carbuncle.

2.

Set with carbuncles.
An armour all of gold it was a king's..—
;

it, were it carbuxcled
Shakefptarc.
Like holy Iheebus' car.

Say that I linger'd with you at your Ihop,
Shakcjpiare.

have feen her befet and bedeckt all over with
emeralds and pearls, and a (anar.et about her neck.
liiilii^i. ill on Prwidtnce.
I

Ca'k.ca8S. n,/, [carquajfe, Fr.]
X. A dead body of any animal.

Am

not I Chriltophero Sly, by occupation a
cardmakcr ?
Sbakcjpeare' i Taming of the Sbreiv.

Ca'rdmatch.w./ [from card &nA mat ch.l

Sltnjcr.

A match made by dipping pieces of card
in melted fulphur.

Take care, that tliofe may not make tjie nioft
who have the leaft to fell; which is very

!

carbuncle.

To fee the making of her careaitet.

the winds are
marked under the mariner's needle.
Upon his ctirdt andcompafs firms Ills eye.

All the quarters that they know,
I' th' (hipman't card.
Slahfpiare.
How abfolute the knave is we muil fpeak by
the card, or equivocation will undo us.
Hbakijp,
On life's vaft ocean diverfcly wc fail,
Rcafon the card, but palfion is the gale.
Pcpe.

Spotted; deformed with carbuncles,
Carbu'ncular. adj. [from cariuncU.']
Belonging to a carbuncle ; red like a

2.

of trees or plants, cither by exctflive
Harris.
heat or exceifive cold.
Ca'rcanet. ». /. [carcan, Fr.] A chain
or collar of jewels.

Ca'r DMAKER.«.y; [froffl Card An^mfike.\
A maker of cards.

The paper on which

The mailers of his long experiment.
The very points they blow

—He ha« dcfcrv d

Caebuncula'tion. n.f. [carbunculatio,
Lat.] The blafting of the young buds

The blue iardinat i finiirr.
MiHer.

!

Ca'rbuncled. atij.

2.

CARD. ». /. [far/*', Fr. fy&arra, Lat.]
Ca'rdinalate. 7«./. [from, cardinal.l
1. A paper painted with figures^ ufed in
Ca'rdin ALsHip. j The office and rank

the face or body.
It was a pcftiknt fever, but there followed

and are chofen

by the pope.

A particular ulcer, called a canSbakejpeare,
Ihould judge now unhappily.
cer, very difficult to cure.
A diforder Cardinal's FLOWER, n.f. [rapuntium,
likewife in the horny coat of the eye, is
Lat.] A flower.

Mifmn,

It is believed that a carhvmle does fhine in the

ftitute the facred college,

crab.]

Shaktfptart,

His head
CrelUd aloft, and carhimU his eyes.
With burnifli'd neck of verdant gold.

nors of the Romilh church, by whom
the pope is elefted out of their own
number, which contains fix billiops, fifty
priefts, and fourteen deacons, who con-

Diiif.

CJRCINO'MJ. n. /.

A carhurclt entire, as big as tbou art.

His cardinal ^zxii6i\on was induftry, Clarmdan,

Ca'rdinal. n.f. One of the chief gover-

Lat.]

Prifon fees.

Lat. ]

[ cardinalis,

The divilions of the year in frequent ufe with
aftronomcrs, according to the cardinal interfeftions
of the zodiack ; that is, the two equino^ials, and
both the folftitial points.
Brown.

A kind of bomb, ufually

Ca'rcelace. n. /. Ifrom career,
like a

^luincym

adj.

Principal ; chief.

oblong, confining of a fhell or cafe,
fometimes of iron with holes, more commonly of a coarfe ftrong lluiF, pitched
over and girt with iron hoops, filled
with combuftibles, and thrown from a
Harris.
mortar.

{carbunculus, Lat.

Were not fo rich ajewel.

bhaktfpearc.
Nor tackle, fail, nor mali.
'I he main pnrts, naked, without completion or ornament ; as, the walls of a

5. [In gunnery.]

Dra'.v, you rogue, or I'll fo carbrntdo

A

ter,

CA'RDINAL.

What could be thought a fuflicient motive to
have had an eternal {ercafs of an univerfe, wherein
the materials and pofitions of it were eternally laid
together ?
Hale^t Origin of Afar kind.

n. f.

a little coal.]
jewel (hining in the dark,
lighted coal or candle.

fometimes rifes all along from thence up to the
ccfophagus, occafioned by fomc acrimonious mat-

The decayed parts of any tiling; the

houfe.

Miller.

To cut or hack.

1.

The hejrt-burn j a pain fuppofed to be felt in
the h-'art, but mure properly in the rtomach, which

upon the

U'Ejhavge.

A rotten ciirtajs of a boat, not ripg'd,
4.

[from xajJla, the

heart, and a^^®-, pain.]

ruins ; the remains.

Holland and LinThe feeds are ufed in medi-

Your {hanks.

Ca'rdialgy. n.f.

Ke that finds himfelt in any diftrefs, either of

efpecially in

CA'RBUNCLE. n. /.

lity of invigorating the fpirits.

Sbaiefpeare.

carcaji or of fortL-ne, {hould deliberate

fliip,

[carbonnade, Fr.
Meat cut
from carbo, a coal, Lat.]
acrofs, to be broiled upon the coals.
If I come in his way willingly, let him make a
Shakejptare.
carbonad'v of me.
To Carbon a'do. v. a. [from the noun.]

:

To 've fav'd their carcajjh /

Ca'raVEL. 7 »./ [iraravela. Span.] A
Ca'rvel. 3 light, round, old-fafhioned

CARBONA'DO.

;

in a ludicrous fenfe.
To-day how many would have given their honours

The fpacious manfion, like a Tuikifli caravan-

cine and confedlionary.

Body

Shakejpt

One that plays much at cards.
Cardi'acal. 7 a(^'. [xa^Jja, the heart.]
Ca'rdiack. 5 Cordial having the qua2.

Like (hipwreck'd carcaffh, are driven aground.
Dryden.

J^ry, entertains the vagabond with only bare lodgFopet Lc.urs,
ing.

with a fquare poop, formerly ufed
in Spain and Portugal.
Ca'raway. a.y; [carum,Lii.] A plant;
fometimes found wild in rich moill paf-

The clothiers all h.ive put off"
The fpinliers, cardcn^ fullers, weavers.

1'ayhr.

The fcaly nations of the fta profound.

houfe built in the Ealtern countries tor
the reception of travellers.

Chambers,

Ca'rder. n.f. [from fflri/.]
1. One that cards wool.

If a man vifits his fick friend in hope of legacy,
he is a vulture, and only waits for the carc^fi.

Carava'nsary. n. f. [from cara'vanj] A
The inns which receive th-j caravans in Periia,
and the Eaftern cauntries, are called by the name
Spf^ator,
of carai-arfarhu

tained in pods, and brought from the
Eaft Indies.

JAiltcn.

Dffcrted.

dicinal feed, of the aromatic kind, con-

I

Whofe living hands immortaliz'd hisnamc. SptvJ.
Where cattle paflur'd'latc, now fcatter'd lies.
With carcajjci 'and arms, th' infanguin'd field,

Mit'tan's Faradift h-jji*
Eafing their flight.
When Joftjph, and the Blefled Virgin Mother,
had lo(l their moft holy Son, thej fought him in
the retinues of their kin'-^d, and ^cm, Caravan% of
^aykr.
the Galilean pilgrims.

colnihire.

.CARDAMO'MUM. n.f. [Latin.] A me-

To blot the hQoour of the itii.

Th«y fet forth
Thtir airy earavan, high over feas
Flying, and over lands, with mutual wing

tnres,

CAR

CAR

CAR

3.

noife

obfervable in the venders of cardmalcbes,

[iaarde, Dutch.] The inftrument with
which wool is combed, or comminuted,
or broken for fpinning.

TcCard. 'V. a.

[from the noun.]

1.

Solicitude; anxiety;
concern.
;

To

Or, if 1 would rake care, that care fliould be
For wit that Ccorn'd thewoild, andliv'd like niB.
DryJtn.

of wood, thick fet with crooked wires.
The while their wives do fit

Nor fallen difcontent, nor anxious care,
Ev'n though brought thither, could inhabit there.

May's firgil.
Ecfidc them, carding wool.
Go, card and fpin.
And leave thebufinefs of the war to men. Dryden,

Dryden.
Raife In your foul the greatelb
tile

.

».

To game

;

perturbation of

mind

comb, or comminute wool with a piece

To Card, f

Addlforu

CA'RDUUS. See Thistle.
CARR. n. f. [cape, Saxon.]

to play much

2.

at cards ; aSj a carding wife.
\

divine will,

»» of fulfilling

ffaie'i Preparation for Death.

Caution ; often in the phrafe, to haic
a care-.
W»ll,

—

!

.

!

Well, fwrett Jack, have a M«of thyfelf. Shai.
The foolilh virgins h»d t»ken no care for a
further fuf ply, afcer the oij, which wa« at firft put
into their lamps, was fpent, »« the wife had done.

calk, ftop op leaks, refit, or trim the
ten.
other fide.
To Care'en. v. ». To be in the ftaie of

dam

!

char.ge ;

heed

in

CARE'ER. «./ [carriere, Fr.]
1. The ground on which a race is run

A. Philips.
order to

proteftion and prefervation.
If we believe that there is a God, that takes
care of us, and we be careful to plcafe him, this
cannot but be a mighty comfort to us. _ TUh'Jon.

a loofe and vague word, implying
attention or inclination, in any degree

A courfe

;

Sidney.

What rein can hold licentious wlckednefs.

When down the hill he holds his fierce career ?
Shake/feare.

Height of fpced ;

3.

The

promifed fair, and yet at length a crofs event has
and ftopt him in the career of his

Or more improv'd

To Care. 1/, «. [from the noun.]

To be anxious or felicitous ; to be in
concern about any thing.

J.

Sidney,
much agony.
As the Germans, both in language and manners,
differed from the Hungarians, fo were they always

a) variance with them j and therefore much cared
though they were by him fubdued.
KnolleC% Htjhry oflbt Turks.
Well, on my terms thou wilt not be my heir 5
If thou car'/! little, lefs fli.ill be my care. Jbryden.

jiot,

g..

To be inclined

be difpofeJ

to

The remarks are introduced by a compliment
to the works of an author, who, I am furc, would

'

gleftful ;

Of beryl, and careering fires between.

folicitous ; full of concern.
The piteous maiden, careful, comforrlefs,

Having

/lot care to part.

4.

;

to : withyir.
You doat on her that cares not for your love.

Gy him that rais'd me to this rorr/ii/ height,
From that contented hap whicli 1 enjoy'd. Shak.

Ca'refully. c«'i». [from careful,]
1.

Srbaktfpeare.

There was an ape that had twins.} flic doated
upon one of them, and did not much care for
t' other.

L'Eftrange.

!

2.

A

To Care'fn.
carina, Lat.

guage.]

v. a.

[cariner, Fr.

from

of him.
Dryden,
All of them, therefore, ftudtoufly chcriflied the
memory of their honourable extraction, and carefully prefcrved the evidences of it.
Alterbury.

A term in the fea lan- 3. Providently.

To lay a veflel on one fide, to

Collier,

Heedfully; watchfully; vigilantly; at-

You come mod carefully Mf on your hour. Shak.
By conlideringbira lb carefully as I did before
my attempt, I have made fome faint rcfemblancc

C^^'recr AZED.nr^'. [from carez.nicraxe.'l
Thcfe both put off, a poor petitioner,
carecraii'd mother of a many children. Sbakeff.

!

tentively.

Temf^Ie.

Broken with care and folicitude.

In a manner that fticws care.
Envy, how carrfuily does it look how meagre
and ill-complexioucd

Where few are rich, few care for it; where

many are fo, many defnc it.

Subjefl to perturbations ; expofed to
troubles ; full of anxiety ; full of folicitude.

to have regard

4.

Cautioufly.

Thirnjitt,

Unheeded; thoughtlefs; unconfidered.
The freedom of- faying as many carelcfs things
as othe^ people, without being fo leverely remarked

.

Ray,

fipeHator.

To be affefted with

main.
3.

upon.

It concerns us to btcanful of oac converfations.

Addifon.

people in the fafliion,

Cheerful he play'd.
Pope,
In my cheerful morn of life.
When nurs'd by careltjs folituJe I liv'd,
Ar.d fung of nature with unccafing joy,
Pieas'd have I waAder'd through your rough do.

Dryilcn,

Great mafters in painting never care for drawing

3.

Cheerful; undifturbed.
Thus wifely carelcjs, innocently gay.

2.

this care;

not care for being praifcd at the expence of an-

,

A

Martha, thou art careful, and troubled about

Behold, thou haft been careful for us with all
what is to be done tor thee? z Kings,
To cure their mad ambition, they were fcnt
To rule a dift^t province, each aljnc:
What could a careful father more have done ?

inattentive ;
regardlefs ; thoughtlefs ; ne-

A

Spenftr.

Luke, x. 41.
many things.
Welcome, thou pleafing flumber;
Awhile embrace me in thy leaden arms.
And charm my f^^r^w/ thoughts. Dcnbam's Sophy.
2. Provident; diligent: with o/^oryir.

;

negligent ;

nothing but themfelves ; whereof they ferm
very carelefi.
Spenfer,
Nor lolc the good advantage of his grace.
By fceming cold, or carelcfs of Vis will. Sbakeff.
woman, the more curious ihe is about her
face, is commonly the more carelcfs about her
hjufe.
BfH Jonfcn,
father, unnaturally carelcfs of bis .child, (ells
or gives him to another man.
Luke,

Anxious;

Watchful; cautious: with «/^.

Pope.

lofe

Milion.

Does throw out thrilling Ihrieks and fhrieking

3.

and care.

:

Ca'reful. adj. [from rar* and y«//.]

cries.

carelejnefs

unheeding; unthinking; unmindful with 5/"or aicut.
Knowing that if thcworft bcfal them, they rtnll

With eyes, the wheels

other's reputation.

Adiijon.
been now acquainted, the two fexes did

Divided between

Ca'reless. eic/J. [from care.1
Having no care feeling no folicitude
1

To Car e'er. •v.n. [from the noun.] Running with fwift motion.

:

better than to

The ignorance or carelejnrji of the fervanls caa
hardly leave the maftcr difappointed.
'Temfle.
I who at fome times ftend, at others fpare.

heedlefs

1.

is

Taylor's Rule tf Bving holy.

Continue and proceed in honour's fair career. Diyd.

with
/tr before nouns, or (0 before verbs.
Not caring to oblervc the wind,
Mealier.
Or the new fea explore.
;

fear of our enemies ; and that

unconcerned ;

She land hot what pain (he put her body to,
fincc the better part, her mind, was laid under fo

walk warily, and tread fure, for

;

Knights in knightly deeds (honld perfevere,

P'pc.

the vegetable care.

Donne,

It makes us to

And ftill continue what at firft they were;

The wily fox.
None taught the trees a nobler race to bear.

South.

fortune.

Dryden,

Gay's 'Trpuia.

Whofe doak his (purs tear, or whom be fpits on,.

be flattered into pride and earelefnrfs,

certainly met

Left, of the guide bereft, the rudder loft.
Your Ihip ihould run againft the rocky coa4.

Slak, CorMarusw

t.

He cares not.

Prior.

Shall quips and fentences, and thefc paper bullets of the brain, awe a man from the career of
Sbake/feare.
his humour?
The heir of a bhifted family has rofe up, and

Shak.

i

Call a rough carclej'nefs good falhion

dure.

Flulh'd were his cheeks, and glowing were his
eyes
Is flie thy caret is (he thy caret he cries. Dryd.
Your fafety, more than mine, was then my care:

careUfs,'\

Who, in the other extreme, only doth

Courfe of a£lion; uninterrupted proce-

When that my care could not withhold thy riots.

Who lately filch'd the turkey's callow care.

carelejnrfs^ lets them plainly fee

now to hit rapid fpced

fpear.

O my poor kingdom, fick with civil blows

H^aJler.

[from

J,

For Coriolanus neither to care whether they
love or hate him, manifcfts the true knowl-dge
he has in their difpofi^ion, and, out of his nohic

To give the rein, and, in the full career.
To draw the certain fword, or fend the pointed
4.

It,

Hecdlefncfs ; inattention ; negligence ;
abfence of care ; manner void of care.

Indians, that they are

IViliins's Matbemaiical Magick.

Mocking the foe;

objeft of care, of caution, or of

What wilt thou do when riot is thy earef

Ca'relesness.

Praftife them now to curb the turning ftecd.

Dryden,
take care to flatter ourfclves with imaginary

love.

Not content to fee
That others write as carelify as he.

able, when a hoife is running in his full career, to
Aand upright on his back.

fcenes and profpedls of future happinefs. Altcrbuiy.

5.

ligently ; inattentively ; without care ;
heedlefly.
There he him found all cartlefly difplay'd,
In fecreC Oiadow from the funny ray. fairy Su,

fwift motion.

It is related of certain

To fwell my tide of joys to their full height.

We

;

a race.

4. It is

.

Knolles's Hiftory of the Turil.

They had run thcmfclvea too far out of breath,
to go back again the iame career,

more or lefs : It is commonly ufed in
the phrafe, to take cart.
You come in fuch a time,
As if propitious fortune took a care

gilance; heedfulnefs ; caution.
The death of Selymus was, with all careful.,

Ca'relesly. aci'v, [from carele/s.'\ Neg-

the length of a courfe.

2.

Ca'refulness. »./. [from careful.'\ Vimfs, concealed by Fe.-hites.

careening.

Tiltoijon.

Begone the prieft expefts you at the altar.
But, tyrant, have a care I come not thither.
3. Regard ;

CAR

CAR

CAR

;

;

4.

Pope.

Unmoved by

;

unconcerned at.

Carilefs of thunder from the clouds that break,

My only omens from your looks ..ilfv Granville.
To CARE'SS. -v. a. [carej/'cr, Fr. from
1

To

endear; to fondle; to
treat with kindnefs.
If 1 can fiail, and pleafe, and carfs my mind
with the pleafures of worthy fpecularioni, or virtuous pradlices, let greatnefs and malice vex and
carus, Lat.]

abridge me, if ihcy can.

Scsitt.

Care'ss. «./ [from the verb.] An aft
of endearment ; an cxpreflion of tendernefs.

He, flie knew, would intermix
Grateful digrelTions, and folvt high difpute
With conjugal caries.
Milton.
There are fome men who fecm to have btut\l
minds wrapt up in human Ihapes; their very
carejjcs are ciude and importur.r.
L'EJlrangt,
After his fuccclTaur had publickly ow led himfclf a Rom.ui catholick, he began with his firrt «rej/<!s to the church part..
C-u-ift,

C.rRET,

CAR

CAR

CjfRET. n. f. \earet, Lat. there is wanting.] A note which fhews where fomething interlined fliould be read.

Ca'uman. h. /. from f^f and wa«, ] A
man whofe employment it is to drive

My body is a cergajfa of

If the ftrong cane fupport thy walking hand,

E'en flurdy carmen (hall thy nod obey,

of a ftiip ; the merchandife or wares
contained and conveyed in a fhip.

A Carna'tion. ». / [carnes, Lat.] The

Fr.]

[c.trmelite,

[fuppofed to be fo

In the hurry of the fl>;f.vreck, Simonidcs was
the only man that appcaird unconcerned, notwjthflandin£ that his whole Ibrtune was at (lake in the

called, as having •vim carmiuis, the power
of a charm.]

L'EJirargc*

Carmiiiati~^es are fuch things a; dilute and rilax

(hip, whofe cargc was no lefs than a whole
world, chat carried the fortune and hopes of all
Burnetii Ibrvry'
pcderity.
This gentleman was then a young adventurer

at the fame time, becaufe wind occafions a fpafm,
or convulfion, in fome parts. Whatever promotes

in the republic of letters, and juft fitted out for
the univerlity with a good cargo of Latin ana

jlrbutbna on jilimcnts.

targe,

A

Greet.

name of the natural flelh colour, from
whence perhaps the flower is named
the name of a flower.

fort of pear.

Carmi'n ATivE. fl<^'.

infenfible perfpiratiim,

And lo the wretch whofe vile, whofe infefl luft
L>id this gay daughter of the fpring in dull
!

1 he

Carmhctivt and diuretick
Will damp all palTi^n fympathetick.

or to the Elyfian (hades

!

common eamelisn

fleflicoioar:

which

<(

in

is,

its

name from its

ume of thefe ftones,

paler, when it is called the female WHc/ion j in
others deeper, called the male.
H^ooiltuarJ.

Stcifr.

Ca'ricous Tumour, [from carica, a fig, Ca'rm iNE. n./. A bright red or crimfon Ca'rneous. a.-//, [carneus, Lat.]

A fwelling in the form of a fig.

Lat.]

CjTRIES.n.f.

[Latin.]

That rottennefs

Sluincy.
Fiflulas of a longcontinuap.ee, are, for the moft
part, accompanied with ulcerations of the gland,
and caries in the bone.
Wijcmans Surgery,

2.

A.nd Klaiut taking for his youngli.-igs cart.
Left grtedy eyes to them might challenge lay,
Bufy with oker did their Ihouldcrs mark, siliiey.

He do«m did lay
His heavy head, devoid of careful cark.

adj.

1.

[carnal,

In birds there is no maftication or comminution
of the meat in the mouth ; but in fuch as are
not carnivorous, it is immediately fwallowed into
the crop or craw.

Thouiloll juftiy re<juire us to fubmit our underrtandings to thine, and deny our wrna/realon,
in order to thy facred myftcries and commands.

Spiritual laws by carnal

On every confcience.

f ow'r (hall

excrefcence.

force

By this method, and by this courfe of diet, with
fudorificks, the ulcers arc healed, and that carno.

Milton.

Not fuch in f<rr»«/ pleafure

:

for which caufe.

Among the bealli no macei°or thee was found.
MiilcB.

A glnrious apparition

!

J!iy ref.Jved.

Decay -jf Piety.

The firft or outward part is a tliick and Mrffo.vj
covering, like thai of a walnut ; the fccond, a dry

Milton.

He perceives plainly, that his appetite to fpiri-

2.

Spenjer,

Broivns Vulgar Errcurs,

The mufcle whereby he
hiijifelf together,

power, of tailing purer iKli^hts.

diftinft Mnreaj TOufcle, extended to the ear.

Attcrbuty.

Luftful ; lecherous ; libidinous,
carnal cur
Preys on the ifl'ue of his mother's body. S'ahjt.

Ca , rob,

2.

/-

-'Tuffir.

Ca RLim THISTLE, [carlitta, Lat.] A
plant.

Carlinos. »,/

Miller.

[In a fhip.]

Timbers

lying fore and aft, alo.ig from one beam
to another ; on thtfe the ledges reft,
on
which the p'an;« of the deck are made

^^%

,
Vol. L

Harris.

long,

fiat, brown. coloured pods, which
are thick, meaiv,
and of a fweeti(h lafte. Thefe pods are eaten
by

2.

the poorer inhabitants.

all

of chrif-

tian liberty >

s„uth.

Caro'che. n. f [from caroffe,

Ca'rvally. adv. [from carnal.]
;

of houfe, or any other way obfer\'ers of eivility

A

now it is obfolete.

CA'ROL. //./ [carola, Jul, from chortO'

Ac-

cording to the flefh
not fpiritually.
Wiiete they found min in diet, attire, furniture

Mller.

Fr.]

coach ; a carriage of plealUre.
It is
ufed in the comedy of Albumaxar, but

GrofTnefs of mind.

He did not inltituie this way of worlhip, bat
becaufe of tlie carnality of their hearts, and
the
proncnefs of that people ti> idolatry.
TilUiion.

Ray on the Creation.
Bread, [foliqua,

A tiee very common in Spain, and in fome parts
of Italy, where it produce, a great <)uantity of

compliance with carnal

If godly, why do they wallow and
fleep in
the carnalities of the world, underprecence

he fimble to fpin and the car! for her feed.

,

lull ;

defires.

A kind of hemp.
'1

Flelhly

01 St. John's

Lat.]

CARNA'i,iTy. n. /. [from carnal.]

.

1.

is
enabled to A.iw
the academifts defcribe to be a

MrW difircs kill not only the defite, but even the
'I'liis

AnfwiT, thou carle, and judje tliis riddle right,
Ciy's Pajlorais.
The editor wa» a covetous carle, and would have
bis pi-arh of the highcft price.
Bentlcy.

and flofculous coat, commonly called mace.

things abates, in proportion as his fenfua)
appetite is indulged and encouraged
and that
;
tual

man.

frankly «wn thee for a cunning wight.

•*

FJefhy.

had not doufct,

.

mfman.

Ca rnous. adj. [from caro, carnii, Lat.l

And carnal fear, thai day dimm'd Adarn't eye.

Carle. ».y: [ceopl, Saxon.]
The carle bebeij, a«d faw his gueft
Would lafe depart, for ali his fubtilc fleighr.

j^rkuihnot on Abn:cnts,

Kmg Charles. Carno'sity. n.f. [carnoftii, Fr.] Flefby

from fiich muddy abundance of rdr^mr agonies, to

brutal

Hay on the Creation.

Man is by his frame, as well as hi» jjipetite,
a carnivorous animal.

From that pretence

ftates wh'.ch ftiU

/'ii
II

Fr. carnalii,

Flelhly; not fpiritual.

do find what a blefling is chanced to my life,

A mean, rude, rough,
We now ufc churl.

[from camis and
yoro. ] Fielh-catitig ; that of which flefh
is the proper food.

low Lat.]

be adherent.
SUtiej.
What can be vainer, than to lavifh out our lives
in the fe«th of ttiflea, and to lie carting fir the
unprofit..bTc foods rf this world ?
L'EJirange.
Noth.ng can fupcrfele our own carkir.gi and
contrivantca for ouifcUeii, but the adurance tlm

I,

Decay of Pity.

CarniVorous. ajj.

MUtiin.

ways in an ill fenfe.

God cares for us.

appetite, as by way of exploit and bravery.

His ample maw with human carvage fill'd,
A milky deluge next the giant fwiii'd.
Pope.

be careful ; to be folicitous ; to be anxi
ous. It is now very little ufed, and alI

Lent ; a time of luxury.
The whole yea. is but one mad carnival, and
we are voluptuous not fo much upon dcfire or

Heaps of flefh.

CA'RNAL.

The

feartheld in the popifh countries before

'

Sfenler.

To Cark. -v. n. [ceapcan, Saxon. J To

Ca'rnival. n.f. [carna-val, Fr.]

Of carnage, prey innumerable and raftc
The favour of death from all things there that live.

This word i: now obfolete.

nel's.

fanguify, I camify.
Hale's Origin of Mankintl.

Such a fcent 1 draw

[ceapc,
anxiety ; folicitude ; concern ; hccdful-

in inferjour faculties, I walk,

1 fee, I hear, I Jigeft, I

as to carnage than to fight, inlomuch as, without
any great lofs or danger to themfelves, the grcateft
part of the fcditious were (lain.
Haytutsrd.

blood to arife by a carhus tooth.

Cark. «. /.

'

He brought the king's forces upon them rather

Ca'rious. ae(/. [carlc/us, Lat.] Rotten.
H%Kar.
Saxon.] Care;

At the fame time I think, I deliberate, I parpofe, I command :

Slaughter; havock ; maffacre.

[from caro, iarnis,

m.

To breed flelh; to turn nutri-

Lat.]

carnii, Lat.]
1.

Ray.
-v.

ment into flefh.

C.\'rkage. »./. [carnage, Fr. from caro,

tennefs.
This is too general, taking in all ear'nfty and
ulcers of the bonei.
H^ifenuin's Surgery.
1 dilcovered the

papillx.

To Ca'rnify.

Clramie^rs.

Cario'sity. «. /. [from cariout.'^ Rot-

Fiefhy.

In a calf, the umbilical veliels terminate in
certain bodies, divided into a multitude of carnemit

bordering on purple, ufed by
painters in miniature.
It is the mofl
valuable produift of the cochineal maftick, and of an excelEve price.
colour,

which is peculiar to a bone.

Pope»

Carne'lion. n.f. A precious flone.

petfpirable matter retained in the body.

Addijon.

him

pnr.ifh

Dilmifs my foul, where no carnation tades.

ccrmisaiirie ; for wind is

is

Dia.

naltty.

Gtty^s Trivia.

The lading Ca'rmklite. n. /.

Ca'rgo. «. / [ciarg^.Fr.]

Ca'rn ALNESS. n.J. The fame with i-ijv-

And rattling coaches ftop to make thee way.

//eWf/'j Letters,

being

as

Mocker.
In the facranieijt we do not receive Chrift car^
nailj, but we receive him ffirituallt ; and that
of itfelf is a conjugation of blelTings and fpirituat
gi'acfs.
Taylor's ffort'jy Coirrmnicanc.

Chairmen no longer (hall the wall command j

humours.

ill

CAR
and decent order, fuch they reproved,
carr.ally and earthly minded.

(

CARGJSON. n. J. [cargafoft, Spanifti.]
A cargo. Not ufcd.

;

:

;

la,
I.

Lat,]

,

A fong of joy and exultation.
And let the Graces dance unto the reil.
For they cjo do it bed

Mm

The

.

The whiles the mafdcnj do thtir can! fing,
To which the woods iliall anCwcr, and their echo

Caro'user.

Sferfcr'iEfitbaUirtlum.

ring.

Even In the Old Tcftamcnt, if you lifteii to David's harp, yuu ihall bearu many heatfc-Ukc air^
Btaii^

as ctirals.

Oppos'd to her, on t'other (ide advance
The'coltly fcaft, the caril, and the Janee,
Minttrels and muRck, poetry and play,
And balls by night, and couinaments by day.
VryJen*

n. /.

affair in hand.

Skakcffrart.
and, by a choir

adorned, aivl a rich cloth of ftate over his head,
of blue fat:in embroidered.
Jiacon,
The dry land we (ind every where naturally
carpetat o\ex with grali, and other agreeable whole,

it

No, not a tooth or nnil to fcratch

Ca'kp sr.LY, adv. [fttiia carping,'] Cap*
I

And a! my adlions carp or catch.

Herbert,

tioufly ; cenforioufly.
We derive out of the Latin at fecond hand by
the French, and make good Englidi, as in the(e

When 1 fpoke.

My honeft homely words wereiwr^V aitd cenfur'd.
For want of courtly ftile.

Drydcn

advetbs, carpitigly, currently, aftivcly, colnurjbly.

Ca'rpenter. k./. [charpentier, Fr.] An

Prior.

artificer in

To Ca'rol. v, a. To praife ; to celebrate

wood ; a builder of houfes

and fliips. He is diftinguilhed from a
joiner, as the carpenter performs larger

in fong.
She with preciouj viol'd lt<]uors heals,
For which the fliepherds at their feftivals

and llronger work.
This work performed with advifement good,
Godfrey his carpculcn, and men of ikill
In all the camp, fent to an aged wood.
Fairfax,
In building Micro's great fli'p, there were diree
hundred carpenters employed for a year together.

Jlfiltsn.

Two

Lat.]

Lay afide therctbre a carping fpirit, and read
even an adverfary with an honeft defign to (ind out
his true meaning ; do not fnatch at little lapfes,
and appearances of miftake.
fi'attt*

Docs hourly carp and quarrel, breaking forth
In rank and not to be endured riots. Hhakcjptare.

That men and angels might rejoice to hear.

[carctides,

No carping critick interrupts his praife.
No rival drives but for a fecond place. Gram'Vk*

even when tliey were free from fuch meaning.
Hooktr,

Sjxnfrr,

Ctrd her goodnefs loud in rullick lays.

Captious ; cenforious.

This your all-licens'd fool

Hai k, how the cheerful bird* do chant their lays.

arteries which arife out of the afcending

trunk of the aorta, near where the fub-

Camden^s Remains.'

Ca'rpmeai,s. n,/. A kind of coarfe cloth
made in the North of England.
Phillips's World of Words.

CJ'RPUS, n, f,

[Latin.]
The wrift, fo
named by anatomifls, which is made up

of eight little bones, of different figures
and thicknefs, placed in two ranks, four
in each rank.
They are flrongly tied
together by the ligaments which come
from the radius, and by the annulary
ligament.
^incy,

miHni.

clavian arteries arife.

In burden'd veflcls firft with fpeedy care,
His plenteous (lores do feafon'd timbers fend

The (areliJ, vertebral, and fplenicfc arteries, are
rot only varioofly contorted, but ,ilfo here and
there dilated, to moderate the motion of the blood.

j

Thither the brawny carpenters repair.

And, as the furgcons of maim'd (hips, attend.

Jiay on the CrcatisTf,

CaRo'usal. «. /. [from carcti/e. It feems
more properly pronounced with the accent upon the fecond fyllable ; but
Drydiii accents it on the firft.J A felli-

1

all

duced carpentry before joinery, b-:caufc ncceiruy
duubtief^ compel our forcfat'ners to ufe the
conveniency of the (:r*1, rather than the extravaMcXin's Mechanical Exercijes.
gancy of the Uil.

Ca'rper. n, /, [from To carp.]

To

Germ.]

out.

viller j a cenforious man.
I have not ihclc weeds.
By putting on the cunning of a carper.

drink ; to quaff"; to drink largely.

He Ci>lls for wine

:

aheikh, quorh he, asif

Tl'ad been aboard carntfrig to his mates
Skalcfpeart.
After a ftorm.
Learn with how little life may be preleiv'd,

Nay, you (hall fee mine orchard, where, in an
arbour, wc will eat a laft year's pippin of my own
grafting, with J di(h o{ carratvjys, and fo forth j
come, cou(in, filcncc, and then to bed.
Sbakejpeare^s Henry iV,

Ca'rriage. n.f, [cariage, Fr. baggage ;
Sbatefp.

1

A covering of various colourf, fpreatl

1.

carpers laid, and every thing in order ?

ihaketp,

If it fcems fo ftrange to move this obeli(k for f>
wh.it m.iy we think of the carria/re of

Againil the wall, in the middle of the half pace,
is a chair placed before him, with a table and carpet
before it.
Bacon.

Ground variegated with flowers, and

little fnaee,
it out of

2.

Co, fignify ns much, while here we march
Upon the giaily carper of this plain- Shakrjpeare.

'

Shairffcurt.
dotations pottie deep.
Our cheerful guefts cantije the fparkling teats
their ears.
inufick
charms
Ol the rich gragc, whiift

The farmer ground (hall be with leivcj o'er(prea^!.
And boughs ihall weave a cov'ring for your hcid.

3.

3.

.Any thing variegated.

The whole dry land is, for the moft part, co-

A drinking match.
A

he could not drink a lull airnuff of (tick, but the
few hours after.

ftatc wasadvcrtifeJ thereof within

Dai'ies on Ir£/ar:J.

Plejfc you, we may contrive this alKrnoon,

Aai <)ua.T caries to oiu BuiLitk' Jwalth.

Siuk.

Ray,

other herb;'.

4.

4.

The frame upon which cannon is carried.

He commanded the gre.it ordnaioe to be laid
up-in carriages^ which before lay hound in great un-

wieldy timber, with rings f.irtencJ thereto,
cuuld not handfomely be removed to or fro,

and

Knillei's Hiji.ry oftbeTurit.

table.
is

is

i"

Carpet is ufed, proverbially, for a ftate
of cafe and luxury ; as, a cai-pct kniglit,
a knight that has never known the field,
and has recommended himfelf only at

He

Vehicle ; that in which any thing

IVatis.

vered over with a lovely carpet of green grafs, and

Wafte in wiU riot what your land allows.
There ply the early feaft, and late canuft. Pcfc.
hearty dofe of liquor.
2.
He had Co many eyes watching over him, as

H'tikins.

.'

carried.
Wh-»t horfe or carriage can take up and bea»
away all the lopplngt of a branchy tree at once

Drjdeti.

Dtnham.

Egypt

Conquert ; acquifition.
Solym.m rcfolved t-> bcltege Vlenn.ij in good
hope that, by the carriage away of that, the other
cities would, without refift.ince, he yielded.
KntiUa'! Hijlcry cf the Turks,

level and fmooth.

To Defdf mona hath to-night ctmuid

the carriage of founds farther or iefs way,

yet do not confound the articulation.
Baeens h'jtural Hifory.

Be the Jacki fair within, the Jills fair without,

2.

from carry.]
The ad of carrying, or tranfporting, or
bearing any thing.
The unequal agitation of the winds, thouglx material to

upon floors or tables.

Whom love hath turn'd almaft the wrong fide out,

Caro'use. »./. [from the verb.]

A ca-

CATIPET. »./ [iarpet, Dutch.]

la gld and myrrh lliey need not to fomiijr. Ralc:gh,
Itow hats fly off, and youths taroaft,
HetlltM firft go round, and then the lioufc,
Sh.-Z/.b;.
Vi^ brides came thick and thick.
Cndcr the ihaJow of friendly bougha
They fiieanu/inj;, where their liquor grow?. IVj'ltr,

Tc Ca»o'i;»e. f. a. Todrinkuplaviflily.
Now my ficU fool, Rodcrigo,

JVijcman's Surgery.

CA'RFENTRy. »./. [froM Carpenter,'] The Ca'rrack. See Carack.
Ca'rrat. See Carat-.
trade or art of a carpenter.
It had been more proper for me to have introCa'rraway. See Caraway.
did

gar au/z,

found one of the bones of the tarpus lyinj

loofe in the wound.

Drydcti.

val;

This game, thefe caraufah Afcanlos taught.
And building Alba to the Latins brought. Drydcn.
To C-'^RO'USE. -v. n. [camufer, Fr.

Dertam.

Ca'rping. particip, adj, [from To carp.]

TcrtuUian even often, through difcontentnient,
ecrprih injurioufly at them, as though they d.d

feftivity.

This done, flie fung, and cariirj out fo clear,
Vryd,
Hov'rlng fwans, their throats relcas'd
From native filence, carJ founds harmonious.

fomc plants.

fault : with at

before the tiling or perfon cenfured.

How that a ilt- was but a flower; Sheiefp.
To Ca'rol. o". a. [catolnre, Ital.] To
fing ; to wacble ; to fing In joy and
And ftfro/ of love's praife.

To cen-

{carpo, Lat.]

furc ; to cavil ; to find

The i-aro/ they began that hour.

1.

and carpeted under foot, without any degrees to
the ftate ; he was fet upon 1 low throne, richly

A pond filh.

acres with carpi and tench,

-J. n.

To

fpread with carpets.
We found him in a fair chamber, richly hanged

A friend of mine ftorcd a pond of tlirec or four

A fong in general.

firoro

To Ca'rpet. <i>. a, [from the noun.]

GnJltvllIf,

Carp. n./. [carfe, Fr.]

an

to be the fubjeft of confideration ;

Tlie bold carcujer, and advent'ring dame.
Nor fear the fever, nor rcfufe the flime ;
Safe in his Ikill, from all conftraint fct free
Bat conlcious (hame, remurfe, and piety.

Ot'fqiijJrnn'd angel!, hear his ierel fung. Milttn.

atl/.

To be on the carptt {fur k tapis, Fr.J

5.

Hflle^t Origin nf MarkirJ,

They gladly thither hafle ;

Ca'rotid.

A

caroit/e.]

is

To CARP.

No night is now with hymn or fjrj.'hieft.

3.

[from

drinker ; a toper.

A fong of devotion.

2,

CAR

CAR

CAR

knight duhbed with unbacked

and oa iurpet tonfid:ratjon.

rapier,

$tii'fp:are.

5.

Beliaviour ; perfonal manners.
Betoic hi» eyes he did call a mili, by bif own
inlinuaUun,

„

CAR

CAR

infinujt'on, and by the carriage of his
yoath, that
exprcffcd a njcursl priocdy bduviour.

_

Yet fcarce enough tlieir hunger to
fupply,
for love has made me carrPjn ere I

hough in my face there '» no affedted trown.

die.

Nor in my carriage a fcign'd nicenefs (hown,

Shall we fend that fooliih carrhn,

ing, that which will n.o(> inftuence
their i j,-r;a<rf
will be the company they convcrle
with,

ConduA; raealiires

;

to him, and cxcufe his throwing

Luk',

Ca'rrion, aeij. [from

practices.

Relating

„,

Management; manner of tranfaaine
^'

another,

was as

of

,

all,

thau tovoiiuie the lofs of my

_,

i he roads are crowded with
earncn,

3.

A meflenger; one who carries a meffage.

The welcome newi U In the letter found;
The earner •« not commimonM to expound

;

It fpeak. itfelf

4.

1 he

Dryde.', JU/igi, La.a.

.

I

fTahin', Ar.rler.

htUnl

2.

t >

h"

Am ring fpecies in cnnfution lie

natonl inclin«ion to racTOn.
2.

Anv fleOi fo corrupted as not to

p,^,^

be fit

lot food.

No. ,11 that pride that make,

To take

As big as thou doft blov/n-up veal
Nor ail thy tricks and flights to
cheat,
Sx J all thy rarr/w
for ^ood meat.
•

Huditrai.

VBfliange,

1

1.

My niece

is

already in the belief that he

Ranee.

i2.

ci_,

r,.

.
To manage; to tranfaft.

mad

's

•

and his re!
.,

^

cshakejteare.

The fcnate is grncrully as numerous as our houfe

of commons ;

and yet carrio It; rcfolutions fe
privately, that they are feldom known.
Addifin an Jiali.

1

To behave ; to conduiS : with the reciprocal pronoun.

3.

Nfglca not alfo the example, of thofe that

If^fcmati'i Surgery.

carried tbemjckei ill in the fame

pl.icc.

have

Bacm.

He attcnJcJ the king into Scotland, where
he
did carry hmjelf wAi much
Angular fwcctnefs and
ry

t:mper.

at carried hmfclf(om(o\fM\y\naiehiafc, and

i,,^,.
utmoft attention for

out of the houfe, to all perfons,
that he>became
odious.
r/^.. J

half an hour to an r>r,itor, without being
able to
c.irry away one Ijrglc fcntcncc
out of a whole

fermon.

7"o continue e.vternal appearance.

we may carry it thus for our pleafure

than the fpecies of

to have with one.
If the ideas of liberty and volition were
carried
along with u. in our minds, a great part
of the
difficulties that perplex men's thoughts
would be

ihave liftened with my

Lucie,

To b«ar out; to face through: with

If a man carriet it off, there i.
(, much money
fared ; and if he be detefted, there
will be fomethiog pleafant in the frolick.

that

;

eaf.or refolvoJ.

thee fwcll,

aot t»
the difadvan.
is

tagc in the comparifon.

10.

Aibutino:

»

_,

prefent

carry it, and thofe at a diftance have

to have about one.
;
_Oo not lake out bones like furgeons I have
met
with, who i-arry them about in their pockets.

4.

.

reft.

In pleafures and pains, the

To bear

ground.

have ever a

Dryden', Kfanyi Friar.

BaoL

3.

as they are birds of prey,

will be
GlanviUe.
Children, who lue together, often drive
for
maftcry, whofe wills ihall carry it over
the

"''"''/''= courting.

Where many

1 .11 warn-d by frequent ills, the way j they
found
T « lodge theit loathlome carntn under
Critic ki

fclvci that they Ciould ealily carry
,Vj fo that t!)ey
entertained the houle ail the morning with
other
'''=^:'.«'Clarendon.
,
,
II the numcroufnefs
of a train muft carry it,
virtue may go follow Aar*a, and vice only

great ordnance are (hot off togc.
thcr, the found will be carried, at the
lead, twenty
miles upon the land.

Rr.ven. are fcen in flock, where
a carrion lies,
and wolves in herds to run down a
deer.
Temple
SI,eep,_oxen, horfea fall ; and
he.ip'd on high,
1

as a^wity.

To tranfport.

vihblci.
e.f ir„ke.

it,

,

AUs, viii. 2.
mean to carry her awuji this cienlij.» by the

manilettly through the air,

receive

Thjee tlioufand ducats. SlaU/>. M.rcb.

with // ; that is, to prevail.

Hkikcjfcare,
_
Sy thefe, and the like arts, they promifej them.-

*'"/"^A/a,^vi. c.-.
The Ipecies of audiblea feem to be carrud m-re

/*"*'.'}'««»>/'>'« C.Wir.

:

Fr.]
Aie you all refolv'd to give your voices
But that '» no matter j the grea.cr part carriei

oppofcd to
often with a

Thty began to carry about in beds thofe

me why I- rather choofe to have

A weight afearriti flelh, than

Vn.

To gain

9.

from cur-

Pialm xlix. 18

goods or money, as tliey liked belt.

1 his foul deed Ihall fmell above the earth.
With ftfrrKo men groaning f jr burial.
I.

:

Prior.
They expofed their goods with the price marked, then retired
the merchants came, Irft the
;
price which they would give upin
tlic goo.f , and
retired ; the .Seres returning, «rrK</
5^ cirhcr their

It is I,

.11
/.
11 aflc

coft much

blood
but yet the town would have been carried
'"''''"'^'
Bacmicnry

To go and come, to fetch and carry.

Tha-, lying by the violet in the fun.

StaktfpeariS Othdlo.

The town was diftrelfed, and ready for 'an aiVault,
which. It it Lad been given, would have

only

Each docs her ftudious aftion vary.

The) did eat the dead eeirrUm,, and one
another
foon atter J infomuch that the very
circailes they
fcraped out cf their graves.

V
You

•

As in a hiveVs vimineoub dome,

"

Do as tlu; caniui H.ies, not as the flower. Sbaiefb.

wander

livin

Ten thoufand bees enjoy their home;

The c-ircafs of fomething not proper

<».

^= 'sn ^"rry her thus ?

.>

:

,

help of thefe two liildieri.

CA'RRION. ,./ [char<,gne, Fr.]

iWer

,

Shjit

Wliat a fortune does the thick lips owe,

And devout men carried Stephen to his burial.

There ate tame and wild pigeons ; and
of tame

for food.

Lays

down his wanton ficge before her beauty
;
Refolves to carry her ; let her confent.

When be dieth, he Ihall carry nothing away.

remote.

I.

1 o gain after refiftance.

\_le porter,

particle, lignifying departure,

called from the reported praftice
of fome
natioos, who fend them with letters
tied
to their necks, which they
carry to the
place where they v.-ere bred,
however

tfiere are croppers, rarrin-j, r.i„ts.

cLndo..

]

To convey /«« a place

bring, or convey to a place :

name of a fpecies of pigeons, fo

Saunderln.

The count woos your daughter,

they have little
or nothing of their own,
y«t will they play f„r
much money.
s^„,.,^ Jj, l^^^

rus, Lat.

"enough to carry the auk.

As we'll dirca her now, 'tis bed to bear it.

The carrm-i arc a kiud of people that

I.

and yet if anv of them hold good,

and commonly carried away every
thins
againfthim.

Ca'rrows. n.f. [an Irilh word.]

To CA'RRY. 'V. a. [cbarm; Fr.

SbAkefpcare.

fairly avoided ;

poled,

blancc in colour to carrots.

Siv'-'''

'

1 lie latter ftill enjoying his place, and
coutiuu.
ing a joint commiffioner
of the treafury, ftill op.

8-

laden vith

nch rnanutaftures.

thought of emv one Corio-

how any of rhefc fir rcaons can la

it

Der.r-

up and down ti gentle rcn's houfes,
•po« caiJs and dice; .vho, ihoui-h

is

Ice no; yet

1

CA'RfLOTY. aeij. [from earrtf.] Spoken
of red hair, on account of its
refem-

tranfcribe
originals by poll

it

lanus „,I1 rj.-._y it.

do well
Mcr.i^er.

nefs of iuir.

fierce I Leilerl.

.

.>

they fay ; but

Ca'rrotiness. h./. [fromf<»rra/)-.] Red-

Bacmt Natural Hiflnry.

,

Her hiiiband being aiive. &bale{f.-are\
KingLeir.
-H ,w many (land for conful'lhips
^Three,

VI-:ftrang€

bunches ot carrots.

Adj,jc«.

.

And hardly Cm\\ \ ^arry out my lije.

His fpoufe order, the fack to be
Immedi.fly
opened, and greedily pulls out
if it half a d zei.

the ajr, which is but a vihichim
cauf,, a earner
of the lounds, and the founds conveyed.
.

"j:;" I"""?-

7-10 gain in competition.

mucli at a rat.: with that of a c.irrki,

m the fiells for feed.

One who carries fomething.

iot wiBdi, when homeward they
return, wlu
• nve
The lojdedfflrn>( from their evening hive. Dryd.
2. One whofe profeffion or trade is to
carry
goods for others.
I have rather made it my
choice to

1

CirrM, thougji ga.Jcn roots, yet they

Baccn'$ Henry \l\.

_

is

-much hiHe.

Beu'J:nf:v'i Difcotjcry.

^
Thefe
advan'ag.-s will be of n elfect, uiiicfs wr
impr.ve them to words, in
the earrfwe ot our

trom one
rrom
or.c

villti.
viiir!>

£^„„.
we bfc tlie occafion of carryi^^ a

buCntfs well thoroughly by our too

Shairlfeert's lieny VI.

of our
„„. uvuiii-i.i;u
—
dcath-leU

that carry it.

Ott-tirr.cs

feeding upon

;

CA'RROT. «./ [carole, Fr. eicuuu Lat.]
An efculent root.

been fccret in<]tr;C:ion upon him.

You mull diiHogu.A between the motion

IS tliey

the fnbftantive.]

crow to a fliecpj we fmcll a caicals.

C.\ RRlER. n.f. [from To carry.]
1.

.

ilie charity
^

Not ufed.

,

carcaffes

Ev'n of the bonny bcalis he. bv d fo wtl!.

Clitrerdon.

If there had

6°'="' *'""'>

Match to match I have en-tr>nr'!»'d h-m
And made a prey for carricn kites and zro's,

.

The manner of carriai^e of the bufinefs,

Tlierc are lomc vain pcrfons,
that wlntfoever
or moveth upon greiter means, if
they have never fo little hand
in it, titcy think it

into the water ?

carcafles.

'^^'\
i:i^t,J>eare.
„
He ajiiied the new gJvernour to ]uvc (o much
dilcrccion m his ca.riage, that there
might be no
notice taken m the wcrcife of his
religion.
7.

to

IV.

Shaiijj'eare't Henry

To e/Fea any thing.

6.

Shi2k;ffear!.

You may hurt yourlellj nay, utterly
Grow iron; tlic kin-'s ac^i aintance, by- this car-

- _

Take all his compaay along with him.

Mrs. Quickly,

and ilte

falhnn of thofe about tliem.

Go, carry Sir Jihn FaliUft'to the Fleet;

Dryd.v.

woman.

breed-

6.

To convey by force.

5

A name of reproat;h for a worthlefs

3.

keep my honour ftill without a ftair..
DryJcn.
Let them have ever fc learned leisures o»

I
_

CAR

The wolves will get a breakfaft by my death.

Baton's HceryVU.

i

.

sonaetimes with // ; as,
high.

14-

Swift.
!

Mm2

ftic

carries it

15. Tf»

~

—

.

To bring forwird

;

to advance in any

it \%

better walking flowly

And thought the nation ne'er would thr'ire,

To fetch and bring, as dogs.

z8.

Young whelps

prog re fs.
lb u nut (0 b« imagineJ how Tar conlVancy will
catrj a manj however,

CAR

CAR

CAR
15.

learn ealily

yoong

to earry \

popinjays learn quickly to fpeak.

Lockr.

This plain natural Mray, without grammar, can
carry them to fireat elegancy and politcncfs in their

years of age, and might have gone further, if the
Temple,
change of air ha'd not carried him off.

'

^

LmU.

laOoMiage.

16.

To urge

to

;

kind of external iinpulfe.

Men are (liongly carr'uA out to, and hardly took
off from, the practice of vice.

nway from the profeflion of an obedience to Chritt,
Abraham.

blelfed Saviour, carried on by his difcipies, and to
be completed by their fuccelTours to the world's
end, all types that dai.;cned this faith are en-

To bear

to have ; to obtain.

;

In fome vegetabifs, we Ice fomething thatftfrr/Vj
a kind of analogy to feiilc ; they contract their
learn againA the cold ) they open them to the faHolers Origin cf Mankind,
vourable heat.

18. To exhibit to (how; to difplay on the
outfide ; to fet to view.

happy lot.

AJtUJcn,

To imply

to import.
It catr'ui too great an imputation of ignorance,
lightnels, or foUy, for men to quit and renounce
their former tenets, prefently, upon the offer of an
argument which they cannot immediately anfwer.
;

That grace will carry ui, if we do not wilfully
betray our fuccours,

to prove that doSrine.

when Ihe runs on rotten ground, or on

rcOl) forbidding fuch practices ; and they

knew
Smth.

are

Licke.

The obvious portions of extenfion, that a(&^
our frnfes, carry tuitb them into the mind the idea
ri 6.iiic.
Locke.

neck is arched, and he holds his head
but when his neck is (hort, and
high
ill-ftiaped, and he lowers his head, he
;

is

zany.

Told our intents before. ShaKLove^s Labour Loft.

CART. ». /
1.

See

Car. [cpsr,

cpai.

Sax.]
A carriage in general.

The Scytiiians are defcribed hy Herodotus to
lodge always in carti, and to feed

upon the milk

of mares.
Triptoiemus, fo fung the Nine,
Stri'w'd plenty

from his >ar: divine.

Temple.

luggage.

Now while my friend, juft ready to depjrt,

To move or continue any thing in a

^^ as

packing all his goods in one poor cait.
Diydei'i Juvenal.

He itopp'd a liitK—

A fmall carriage with two wheels, ufed

3.

by hufbandmen ; diftinguilhed from a
ii:.tggcn, which has four wheels.
Alas whatweights are thole that load my heart!

To pufh on ideas, arguments, or any

!

thing fucceflive in a train.
Manctho, that wrote of the Egyptians, hath
carried up their government to an incredible dif-

tance.

//(.-A's

Origin of Maitkird.

25. To receive ; to endure: rwt in ufe.
Some have in readincls fo many odd ftorie.-, as
there

is

n'Jthing but they can w.ap it into a tale,

to make others carry it witli more p'eafure. Bacon.

26. To convey
fupporting.

I

am as dull as winter ftarved (hecp,

Tir'd as a jade in overloadsn earl.
4.

The vehicle in which

Sidney.

are

criminals

carried to execution.
The fquire, whofc good grKC was to open the
fcene,

Vow fitted the halter, now travers'd the cart.
And often took leave, but was loth to depart.

by means of fomething

Prior.

Cfrry camoinile, or wild thyme, or the grc;n

To Cart. v. a. [from the noun.] To expofe in a cart, by way of piinilnment.

ftrawbsrry, upon fticks, as you do hops upon poles.

Bacon i Nalaral ilijioiy.

17. To bear, as trees.
Set them a rcafonnble depth, and tliry will carry
(Here lho«» apon tbe liaa,
{iaun't Nat. Vifi.

Ucraocritus ne'er laugh'd fo loud.

To fee bawds carted through the crowd. UuJiirau
No woman led a better life
:

She to intrigues was e':n hard-hearted;
She chuckled wbsn a bawd was (tried;

A cart-load of carrots appeared of darker colour,

when looked upon where

the points were

obverted to the eye, than where the fides were fo.
Boyle.
Let Wood and his accomplices travel about a
country with carl loads of their ware, and fee who
Svti/l.

will taice it.

2.

A quantity fufficient to load a cart.
and roft.]

A

ftrong cord ufed to faften the load

on

». /.

the carriage :
cord.

[cart

proverbially any thick

Cart-way. n. /. [from cart and tvay.]
A way through which a carriage may
conveniently travel.
Where your woods are large, it is beft to hare
a cart-way along the middle of them.

Mortimer I Hujbandry*

CARTE BLANCHE. [French.] A blank
a paper to be filled up with fuch
;
conditions as the perfon to whom it is
fent thinks proper.
Ca'rtei-. n.f. [cartel, Fr. cartello, Ital.]
1
A writing containing, for the moft parr,

paper

ftipulations between enemies.

As this difcord amorv.j the fiftethood is Ukely to
engage them in a long and lingering war, it i» the
more neceflary that there Ihouid b; a cartel fettled
AddifonU Frecbaldtrt
among them.
2. Anciently any publick paper.
Thry flatly difavouch
To yield him more obedience, or fupport

And as to perjur'd duke of Lancafter,
Pryden.

A wheel-carriage, ufed commonlj? for

2.

Baeon*t Natural Hijicry,

24.

[from carry and

Some carry-tale, fome pleafeman, fome flight

We fee a!fo manifcftly, that founds are tarried

certain direftion.
l-lis chimney is carried up through the wh:>lc
rock, fo that you fee the Iky throuj;h ii, not^vithftinding the rooms lie viry deep. Jhidiji-r: <,n Italy.

». /.

A talebearer.

tale.']

tion.

73.

faid to carry lonjj.

Ca'rry-tale.

zz. To convey or bear any thing united
or adhering, by communication of mo-

with wind : and therefore founds will be heard
tiutfaer with the wind than againd the wind

A horfe is faid to carry <vjeU, when his

2.

many exprelTions, which carry wiri

them to my mind no clear ideas.

and it fticks to her feet.

froft,

There was a righteous and a fcarching law, di-

There

A hare is faid by hunters to carry,

1.

ff^uili on tbc Mit:d.

that it cariied -with it the divine ftamp.

Uamrmnd.

To Ca'rry. 'V. n.

to comprife.

21. To have annexed ; to have any Uiing
joined : with the particle ivith.

viftorioufly ihrougb all diffi-

culties.

He thought it carried fomething of argument in
it,

A quantity of any thing piled on a cart.

Cart-rope.

from failing, or being conquered.

;

To contain

Cart-load. »./ [from eart and loac/,]
1

ccafe.
France will not confent to furnifli us with moTemple.
ney fufficicnt to carry m the war.
33. To carry through. Tofupport; to keep

Locke,

20.

He came nut with all his clowi^, horfed upon
fuch carl jade!, fo furnirtied, I fliought if that
were thrift, I wifiied none of my' friends or fubSidney.
jefls ever to thrive.

A^neas's fettlcmcnt in Italy was carried on
through all tl.c oppofitions in his way to it, both
Addifin.
by fcj and land.
32. To carry on. Toprofecutc; not to let

The afpe^ of every one in the family carrin fo
much fatlsfa^ion, that it appears he knows his
19.

A vile horfe, fit only for the cart.

Sfratt.

lightened.

.

only for the

JCno/les,

the adminiftration of grace, begun by our

By

fit

Cart-jade. »./. [from far/ and _/W^.]

To

is DO fon of tlie faithful

17.

A coarfe unwieldy horfe,

cart.
It was determined, that thefe fick and wounded
foldiers lliould be carried upon the eart-bu/ei.

ward from one ftage to another.

He that the world, or flcrti, or devil,. can mr/y

Mortimer*

ing.

Cart-horse. »./ [from cart zadior/e.]

fame defign that is promoted

It cairiei on the

by authors of a graver torn, and only docs it in
AddiJ'in.
another manner.
continue ; to put for31. To carry on.

South,

Hjmmond^ s Prafiicai Catetbifm,
Ill nature, palTion, and revenge, will cany them
too far in punilhing others ; and therefore God
bath (.ertainly appointed government torellrain the
partiality and violence of men.
Lccke.

Oxen are not fo good for draught, where y.iu
have occafion to carl much, but for winter plough,

to help

;

Pritr,

Ta Cart. <v, n. To ufe carts for carriage.

forward.

Sivift*

bear forward with fome

To promote

To carry on.

30.

There is no vice which mankind carria to fuih
wild extremes, as that of avarice*

Till all th; whores wcr« burnt alive.

Afcbam'i Scbeelmajfer,

To kill.
29. To carry off.
Old I'arr lived to one hundred and fifty-three

in a rugjcd way, than to break a leg and be a cripple.

;

..

Their cartel of defiance, they prefer.
Daric/t Civil Wtr.

Ca'rter. n. f. [from cari,'\ The man
who drives a cart, or whole trade it is
to drive a cart.
Let mi- be no afiillant for a ftate.
Sbakijp. Hamlets

But keep a farm, and cartert,

The Divine goodnefs never fails, provided that,
rding to the advice of Hercules to die carter,
ac
we putourownfliduldcrs to tlie work. L'Eftrange.
Cartfr and hoft confronWd face to tace. Dryden,.
It is the prudence of a carter to put beils upon
his horfcs, to make (hem carry iheir burdens
•

Vrydtn: Dufrelnoy.

chi'crfuliy.

CA'RTILAGE. «./ [cartilago, Lat.] A
fmooth and

folid

body,

fofter

than-

a

bone, but harder than a ligament. In it
are no cavities or cells for containing of
marrow ; nor is it covered over with .any
membrane to make it fcnfible, as the
The cartilages have a. nabones are.
tural elaflicity, by which, if they are
forced from their natural figure or fituation, they return to it of thcmfelves, as
foon as that force is tnksn away. ^mcy.
Cinals,

;

;

;

.

CAR

CAS

Canals> bydegreej, are abolifheil, and grow folid j
feveral of them united grow a membrane ; thcfe

To diftribute;

5.

membranes further toniblidatrd become cartilages,
and cartilagn bones.

Ariutbnot.

Cartilagi'neous. 7

Cartila'cikous.

j

<7<^".

[from

lage.'\

carti-

Confifting

vide at will.

He had been a keeper of his flocks both from
the violence of robbers and his own foldiers, who
could eafily have carved themfclves their own

The river Teverone throws itfelf down a precipice, and falls by feveral cascades from one rock to

to apportion; to pro-

'ood.

poife themfclvej, afcend and defcend at pleaiurc,

rogjti\e of Providence, and carve out to himfelf
the feafons and iffiies of life and death ?
Siutb.

and continue in what depth uf water they lid, is as
yet unknown.
Ray.

The labourers' fliare, being feldom more than a
bare fubfiftence, never allows that body of men

The larynr gives paflage to the breath, and,

opportunity to ftrugjie with the richer, unlefs when

as the breath paiTcth through the rimula, malces a
vibration of thofe cartilaginous bodies, which forms
that breath into a vucal found or voice.
HzliUr^s E'^neris of Speech*

Carto'on. «./

[far/on^, Ital.]

fome common and great diftrefs
to fdro/f to their wants. .
6.

A paint-

with a V'llgar idea that t:ie world beholds
the cartoati of Raphael, and every one feels his
fharc of pleafure and entertainment.
JVaits's Lcgick.

Carto'uch. »./. [cartouche, Fr.]

Harris.

(he difcourfcs,

My miftrefs for the ftrangers carv'd.

A

[from cart and

maker of carts.
Alter local names, the mod name; hive been
derived from occupations or profelCons ; as,
Tay•Wright.]

lor, Potter, Smitli, Cariiorigbt.
CamMnS Rtmains.
To CARVE, v. a. [ceoppan. Sax, ierven,

Dutch.]
1 .

To cut wood, or Hone, or other matter,
into elegant forms.
Talcing tiie very refufe, he hath carved
it diligently when he had nothing dfe to do.
ty.Jdtm, xiii.

Hal Democrates

1 3.

carved mount Athos
had the
ni.mfry of the faft been obliterated by fome
actiucnt, who could aftcrwarils have proved
it imp-iTibk, but that it might cafually have been
?
really

into a ftatie of Alexander the Great, and

z.
3.

_
To

4.

A' nature could not with his art compare,
W.re Ihe t., work.
^ j^_
10 engrave.

O Rofalind, thefe trees (hall be my books.
And in their barks my thoughts IM charafter
That every eye, which in this foreft looks,

Shall fee thy virtue witnefaM every

where.

Run, run, Orlando, carve on every tree
Tiie fair, the chaftc, the unejtf

rsfli« flie. Siak.

Worroff.

Case-knife, n.f. [from ca/e and ini/e.}

A large kitchen knife.

A fculptor.

jiddifor on Irjlv..

j

Case-shot. ». / [from ca/e zad^fhot'.]
Bulltts inclofed in a cafe.
In each feven fmall
charged with cafe-jhot.

Meanwhile thy indignation yet to raife.

brafs

The carver, dancing round each difli, furveys
With flying knife, and, as his art direfts.

CASE. n. f. [csfiis, Lat.]

With proper geftarea cv'ry fowl diir-fts.

1.

Dryd;r:.

He that apportions or diftributes at will.
In this kind, to come in braiing arms.
Be his own carver, and cut out his wav.

Fairy Siii»n.Qoeftinn your royal thoughts, moke the cafe
yours j
Be now a fathcr,and propofe a fon. Shak. Hen. IV.
Some knew the face.
And all had heard the much lamented cafe. Dryden.
Thcfe were the circumftances under which the
Corinthians then were ; and the argument which
the spoftle advances, is intended to reach their particular «/«.
Atierbuiy..
My youth may he made, as it never fails in oxecutions, a cafe of compalTion,

h'Eflratlgr.

Ca , RViNG, It./, [from fflri;^ .] Sculpture;

figures carved.
1 hey can
no more laft Uke the ancients, than
excellent carTiiu^j in wood like thofe iu marble and

Tempk.

The hds are ivy, grapes in cluflers lurk
Beneath the carving uf the curious work.
Drycien^s y-rgil,

Caru'ncle.

n. /.

Condition with regard to out.vard circumrtances.
Unworthy wretch, tjuothjie, of fo great grace,.
think fu;h glory to attain?
have It attain'd were in like cafcy
Qi;ith he, as wretched, and liv'd in like pain.

Shakcjf care's Richard II.

.

[caruncula, Lat.]

A

fmall protuberance of flelh, either natural or morbid.

Pafc's Preface to his Works,

State of things.

2.

Caruncles arc a fort of loofe flelh arifing in the
urethra by the erofion made by virulent acid mit-

m,-(juality

'"•

an

lyij^man

^

to perpetuate their flavery, repreiented

them in buildings as charged with burdens.] An order of columns or piiafters,
under the figures of women drelfed in
long robes, ferving to fupport entablatures.

'

Chambers.

Casca'de. n.f. [cafcade, Fr. cajcata, hal.
from cajcare,

to fall.]

A cataraft;

water-fall.
Rivers diverted from their native courfc,

And bound witii cJuijw of anilicial force,

Clarendon.

'i'hefe that

We are not the carvers of our own fortunes,

''"'»•

and leather guns,

Ilriw da'r I

To nnd out right with wrongs it may not be.

;

j
And carvj in ivory fuch a maid lo fair,

choice colleflions from all parts, at his own charge.

The king always ads with a great cafe-ku'fk
ftuck in his girdle, which the lady fnatches from>
him in the llrugglc, and fo defends herlclf.

CARTA'TES.
cat meat at the table.
\ n. /. [{romCary a, z city
To make any thing by carving or cut- CARYAriDES. \ taken by the Greeks,
who led away the women captives and,
ting.
In fculpture cxercis'd his happy Ikill

A building unfurnifhed.

He had a purpofe likewife to raife, in the univerfity, a fair cafe for books, and to furnilh it with

Raleigh.

Ben:lcy.

Yet fearing idlenefs, the nurfe of ill.

The outer part of a houfe or building.

3.

A fmall fhip.

The mafter painters and the carvers came. Drydeti.
2. He that cuts up the meat at the table.

3.

Brorjme on the Odyjfey,
Juft then ClarifTa drew, with tempting giacc,
two edg'd weapon from her fliining caJe. Pofe,

The cafe of the hcly houfe is nobly defigned,
and executed by grc.it m'afters.
Addifn on Italy.

All arts and artifts Thefeus could command.

wheel.

are kept.

A
2.

Prior.

Who fold for hire, or wrought for better fame

[from cart and rut;
route, a way.] The track made by a cart

A place where papers or records

The body is but a cafe to this vehicle.

carva,

flic

Shakejpcarc's Merry ff^ives of iVindJor.
Well then, things handfomely were ferv'd

n. /.

Ca'rtulary. »./ [from charta, paper,

Dryden.
Other caterpillars produced maggots, that immediately made themfclves up in cafes.

Ray on the Creatitn,

Ca'r TRACE. In./, [cartouche, Fr.] A
Ca'rtridce. J cafe of. paper or parchnot approach the coall.
ment filled with gunpowder, ufed for Ca'rver. n.
f. [from fart//.]

The (Irength of big-corn'd powder loves to try.
And ball and eartrage forts for every bore. DryJen.

a

^

(he gives the leer of invitation,

1.

box ;

Shakefp, Antmy and Cleofatrer,
Each thought was vilible that roli'd within.

n.

entertainment in her;

a

As through a cryftal caje the fijjur'd hours are fecn.-

I gave them order, if they
found any Indians
there, to f^-nd in the little fly-boat, or the carve/,
into the river; for, with our great (hips, we durft

the greater expedition in charging guns.
Our monaich ttands in perfon by.
His new-cali cannons firmnefs to explore

covering ;

Heart, once be ftronger than thy continent,
Crack thy frail ca[e.

Lcckc.

plying the comj)any from the dirties.
1 do mean to make love to Ford's wife
I fpy
j

A portable box for charges.

a

O cleave, my fides

emboldens tliem

To exercife the trade of a fculptor.
2. To perform at table the office of fup-

Ca'rvel. n./.

elfe ;

fhcath.

1

the bottom, girt round with marlin, and
holding forty-eight mufket-balls, and fix
or eight iron balls of a pound weight.
It is fired out of a hobit or fmall mortar, and is proper for defending a pafs.

n. f.

thing

;
to hew.
Or they will buy his (heep forth of the cote,
Or they will carve the ihcplierd'i throat.

-v.

Something that covers or contains any

1.

To cut

To Carve,

A cafe of wood three inches thick at

Ca'rtwrioht.

Addijcn,

CASE. n. f. [caiffe, Fr, a box.]

Brave Macbeth, with his brandilh'd Reel,
Like valour's minion, canied out his paffage. Slak.

It IS

Lat.]

another, till it gai:ii the bottom of the valley.

Sfenfer's Pajlorofs.

ing or drawing upon large paper.

Ca'rtrut.

Prior,

South.

How dares finful duft and aflies invade the pre-

By what artifice the eari't/jgyin"" liind of fiflies

a.

CAS
from large cafcadei in plealing tumult roli'd.
Or rofe through figur'd (lone, or breathing gold.

of cartilages.

I.

!

a

He faith, that if there can be found fuch. aii'
1

between nia.i and man, as between man'
beaft, or b.tween foul and body, it inveileth a

right of governmc'it ; which fecmeth rather an
impoHibie cfc, than an untrue fjntence.
Bacon,
Here was the cafe ; an aimy of Eiiglilh, wartod
and tired with a loijg. winter's fie^c, engaged an
army of a greater number than thcmlelves, frcfli
and in vigour.
1
Bacon.
I can but be a Have wherever 1 am
fo that
;
taken or not taken, 'tis all a cafe to me.

L'EJlrange,

They are excellent in order to certain ends; he
hath no need to ufe them, as the cafe now Hands,
being provided for with theprovifion of an angeli
Taylor's Holy Living.

Your parents' did not produce you much into the
world, whereby you have fewer ill impreflions but
j
they failed, as is generally the cafe, in too much
ne^loAing to cuUivite your miad.

Sivft.
3-

(ir^

''

;;

.

[Tn phyfick.] State of the body ;

3.

z. I'o cover as a cafe.
Then cumes my lit again ; I bad tl& bota fcr-

ftate

of the difeafe.

fca.

calms
It was well j for we had r»thcr met with
tnd contrary winds, tliaii any icmpcfts ; for our
3.

Then they began to cafe their houfes with mar4.

We'll make you f»me fport wi»J> the fox VK we

be he not apt to beat over matters, and ;o
upone thing to prove an 1 illufttaa another, let him
»udy the lawyer. «/•! ; fo every dslVrt of the m"n.i
Bacon i EJiyt.
may hive » fpccial receipt.
cali

.

In ludicrous language, condition with
in cafe, v,
regard to leannefs or fat.
i<J}y

.or fat.

cifft

ihou Ijcft, mod ignorant monftcr, 1 am hcajc

your iron all over with it ; then wrap the loam
about all, and lay it upon the hearth of the forge
Put it into the fire, and blow
to dry and harden.
up the coals to it, till the whole lump have juft a

provifion for this cafe; if, contrai7 to his confidence, it (hould prove in the illuc that there is a

Cod, the man is loft and undone for ever.

Tillo'fon.

8. Queftion relating to particular perfons

or things.
Well GO 1 find each man moft wife in his own
Siir.ey.

cafe.

It is ftrangc, that the ancient fathers Ihould not
appeal to this judge, in all cafes, it being fo (hort

and expedite a way for the,ending of controverfies.
Tilititfim.

9. Reprefentation of any faft or queftion.

10.

The feveral changes which the noun undergoes
Greek tongues, in the feveral

numbers, arc called cafes, and are defigncd to cxprefs the feveral views or relations under which
the mind confidcrs things with regard to one another ; and the variation of the noun for this
purpofe is called decleiifion.

11. In cafe.

[/'»

cafo,

Clark's Latin CUam.

Ital.]

If it

fliould

happen ; upon the fuppofition that
form of fpeech now little ufed.

:

Ca'semate. »./. [from cafaarma/a,lta.].
cafamata. Span, a vault formerly made

a

For in caje it be certain, hard it cannot be for
them to (hew U5 where we (hail find it ; that we
may (iiy thefe were the orders of the apoftles.

have an ill day, or unlucky char.cein thefi-ld.
Bacon's Henry VII.

This would he the accomplilhment of their com-

^

Hay^vard.

charge of the money..
If a llcward or cafhier be fuifered to run OB,

without bringing him to a reckoning, fuch a fotiilh
Stuth.
forbearance will teach him to (hufik.
Venetian, finding his fon's expences grow
very high, ordered hi^ easier to let him have no
more money than what he ihould count whea he

A

Flight of cafhiers, or mob«, he'll never mind ;
And knows no lofles, while the mufc is kind. Pope.

To Cashi'er. -y.

'5
Ctft yc, cafe ye ; on wiih your vizours ; there

Shakffpearc's Henry IV.

till the miner is heard at
work, and air given to the mine. Harris.

Ca'sement. «. /.

To difcard

1.

[cafam(«to, lul.]

Does 't not go well

difmifs

from a poft,

Addifon's FrecboUer,
lowers as mutineers.
The ruling rogue, who dreads to be cafbierd.
S^icft.
Contrives, as he is hated, to be fear'd.

2.

^

It feems, in the following paffages,
to fignify the fame as to annul ; to vacate : which is fulHciently agreeable to

the derivation.
If we (hould find a father corrupting his fon,
or a mother her daughter, we muft charge this
upon a peculiar anomaly and bafcnefs of nature
if the name of nature may be allowed to that
which feems to be atur cajbiering of it, and deviap

moon may ftiine in at the caftment.
Sl'ahffeare'i Midfummer Night's Dream.
Here in this world they do much knowledge reaJ,
And a.e the cafcmenii wnich admit molt Ij^ht.

tion from, and a contradidlion to, the

common

Sontb.
principles of humanity.
Some lafhiit, or at Icaft endeavour to invalidate,
all other arguments, and forbid us t» hearken to

De'vies.

They, waken'd with the noife, did fly

From ioward room to window eye,
And gently op'ning lid, the cafment,

thofe pioofs, as weak or fallacious.

Look'd out, but yet with fome amazement.
Hudibras.
is

Caffio hath beaten thee.

Sbaktfpcare.

chamber window, whcie we pbv, open, and the

There is

>.

Seconds in faftions many times prove principals
but many times aifo they prove cyphers, and are
Bacon,
cajhiired.
If i had omitted what he f.M, his thoughts and
words being thus ca/hier'd ia my hands, he had no
DryJcn.
lunger been Lucretius.
They have already cafiieied feveral of their fol-

Why, then may you have a caftment of the great

much difference between the c'.cai-

1

Soiiik.

A grub that makes itfelf a cafe.
Cadilts, Of cajeviarms, *re to be tound in this

a wooden

veffel

to ftop

up

Wh

FUycr en tie Humjurs.

Ca'seworm. ti.f [from ra/J and au»/-/w.]

;

Tlie patient turning himfelf ab^d, it makes a
fluduating kind of noife, like the rumbling of
Hamcj.
water in a irii^.
Perhaps to-motrow he may change his wine,
And drink old fparkling Alban, or Setine,
ofe title, and whofr age, with mould o'ergrown,
The good old cafk for ever keeps unknown. Dryd.

Ca'seous. aiij. [cafeus, Lat.] Refcmbling

the foldiers of the garrilbn, with beds.
Harris.

A barrel

liquor or provifions.

between the profpcft of a cafement and a keyhole.

Ca'sern. n. f [caftrne, Fr.] A little
room or lodgement erefted between the

Lockf.

Cask. n.f. [cafque, Fr. caJus, Lat.]

reprefcntations of the undcrftandlng then, and the
obfcurc difcuverics that it a.akcs now, as tiierc is

if tiiotl'would'ft not entumb thyleli alive,
And cafe thy repoution in a tent.

thmftn.

to

;

And thou by that Imall hurt hall cafhier' dQiiVso.

A

rampart and the boufes of fortified towns,
to lervc as apartments or lodgings for

CM'd 'uLfteen fcales, the ctocodUc extends.

[cajer, Fr. cajfarc,

or a fociety, with reproach.

window opening upon hinges.

The cry went one; tor thee,
And ftjlUt might, and yet i; may again,
Slaicffeare't Iniht and Crtfftda.
L'lke a fall'n cedar, far diffus'd his train,

a.

Lat.]

A

chvle.

money of the king's coming do.vn the hill.

Locke.

received it.

Its lib.ous parts are from the caftcus parts of the

To put in a cafe or cover.

Miller.

Cashi'er. n.f. [from cafi.] He that has

cheefe ; cheefy-

To Case. i». a. [from the noun.]
I .

nuts, not with ftiells, but huflts.

arch of ftone-work, in that part of the
fian^ of a baftion next the curtin, (omewhat retired »r drawn back towards the
capital of the baftion, ferving as a battery to defend the face of the oppofite
Chamt.
baftion, and the moat or ditch.
2. The well, with its feveral fubterraneons branches, dug in the paffage of

mon felicity, in cafe, either by their evil deltiny
or advice, they fuifered not the occafion to be loft.

a tree that bears

Ca'shewnut. w. /

to leparate the platforms of the lower
and upper batteries.]
kind of vault or
1. [In fortification.]

Hoiker.

A fure retreat to his forces, in cafe they thculd

Difpenfator was ptopeily t cafi>-kte^er, or privy,
jirhu'kmit en Ceinsm

purfc

.

the baftion,

The variation of nouns.

in the Latin and

Mi>x<,n's Mectan. Excrcifes.

blood-red heat.

trary to his lielief or eipeilation, hath iriade no

to contrive

then beat it to powder ; put about tlie laiue quantity of bay fait to it, and mingle them together
with (Ule chaniberlye, or cUc wi-.ite wine vinegar.
Lay fome of this mixture upon loam, acd cover

The prieft was pretty well in cafe.
And (hew'd fome humour in his face;

;

Ariuihi:st'i yoh* Bull.

He fent the thief, that ftole the cafh, away.
J'lft.
And puRi(h'd him that put it in his way.
Ca'sh-keepe R. »./ [from caJl and iuf.}
A man entrulled with the money.

:

For if the fire be faint, or out of caff.

Contingence poflible event.
The ai:heift, in cafe things (hould fall out con-

law and his daily bread now upm truft.

cow horn 01 hoof, dry it tlwroughly in an even,

He will be copy'd in his famifli'd race. Dry J, Virg.

S-Mift.

;

To harden on the outfide.
The manner of cafclariiening i: tJms Take

i"£/J/a»g..
mouth of you.
Quoth R^ilph, I ftiould not, if I were
HuMhras.
7b caji for aftion, now be here.

A

A thief, bent to unhoard the cafh

hariien.']

Shtkcf/tore's Ttmpt/I.
and when 1
i'r.iy have but laticnce till then,
am in little better cej'e, I'll throw mjlelf in the very

7.

Hhakrfpcc:-'' I All's •a.'eil that mil tee//-

rcpreletitations of tads: a ludicrous ule.
They fell prefently to reafunfng and cufiag upon
tlie matter with him, and laying diltinQions bcfute
L'Bftrargt.
him.
•Ta Caseha'rden. v. a. [ftora cafe and

to Juftle a conftable.

Loolc'd with an eafy carelefs m;cn,
perfcfl frranger to the fpleen.

him.

To Case. -v. n. To put cafus

money in th«

Paradife LJt.
Of fome ricn buigher.
He is at »t\ end of all his cafh, he has both Lit

To ftrip off the covering ; to take off
the fkin.

pleas.

I

A'-tulbnot.

ble.

:

6.

properly ready money ;
cheft, or at hand.

To cover on the outfide with materials
different from the infide.

Hirtory of a difeafe.

.

CASH. »./ [caift, Fr. a cheft.] Monty ;

Shakjjieare'i Maclei'a.

juridkally confiderad
5. The Hate of fafts
as the lawyers cited many cafes in their
It"

nation, in feveral diftinft counties, tad In fevcrtl
Fkytr,
little brookt.

As broad and gen'ial >l the eajifg air.

Bacon.
Cck were many, aud in very ill caff
Chalybeate wati-r fcems to be a proper remedy in
Arludict ir Alimenli.
hypochondriacal «/«.
4..

CAS

CAS

CAS

2.

It has cafk in a kind of plural fenfe, to

fignlfy the

commodity or provifion of

calks.
Great inconveniencles grow by the bad cafli be.
ing commonly (0 ill feafoned and conditioned, ns
that a great part of the beer is ever loft and caft
Rahij^h.

a«ay.

Cask.

\ n.f.

Casc^e. J
head

:

[cafque, Fr. caffis, Lat.]

A helmet; armour for the

poetical word.
a *^
Let

;

CAS

CAS

CAS
Let thy Mows, doubly redon'olcd,
Fail like amazing thunder on th« cafjue
Sbakefptcrethy pernicious enemy.

Oi

Ani tV.cfe
Sling weighty ftones, when Iram afar they fight j
Their cajques are cork, covering thick and light.

ftance, which is purgative.

The flowers have five

leaves, difpofed orbicularly.

Miller.

Ca'ssi DON Y, or StUkadore. n.f. [Jiotchm,
Lat.] The name of a plant.
Ca'ssiowary. n.f. A large bird of prey

Half dare not ihake the fnow from

particular value.

(a£''icks,

They found him dead, and cad into the ftreets,

An empty rfl/Sff , where the jewel, life.
By fome diinn'd hand was robbd and ta'en away.
Shekejpeart.

what d»ft thou bear
ignorant poor man
Lock'J up wilhin the cnjitt of thy breaft ?
What jewels and what riches haft thou there ?
What heav'nlytreafurein fo weak a cheft? Dav'm.
Mine eye hath found that fad fepuichral reck,
That wa5 the cajket of heav'n'a richeft ftore. Milt.
!

Knolles^s mjicry.

Siuifr.

wife ciUedJhi/iierd's pouch.

CAST. -v. a. preter. cafi

pair. cafi.

I

rather chufe to endure the

fafeiy and fieepiljr in the eafy ways of aacient mif-

takings.

Raleigh.

They bad compalTed in his hoft, and cap darts
at the peuple frotn morning till evening.
1

And yield thee to my mercy, or I ftrike.
Dryden and Lte.

To throw away, as ufelefs or noxious.

2.

If thy right hand offend thee, cut
ffl/9 it

d'.v

I'd into many crlls by ttanfverfe diaph-jjjms

in

r^.cti

J" ..;t<;,

of which

is

Contained one haid Iced

i.s the moft part, io a cUtnmy biack fub-

from thee.

it off,

and

liiaultv.
both the chariot and horfe ate
caj} into a dead (leop.
P,,;'m Ixxvi. 6.

At thy rebuke

To condemn in a criminal trial.
But oh, that treacherous bieaft to wlu'in weak

18.

!

you
Did truft our counfels, and we both may rue.
Having his falfehnod found too late, 'twas he
That made me caji you guilty, and you me. Define*We take up with the moft incompetent witncfTes, nay, often fuborn our own furmifes and
jealoulies, that we may be fure to ct/I the unhappy
criminal.

much as have cried, Mercy

Lord, mercy
Souths
There then we met; both tried, and botli were

To fcatter by the hand

5.

To force by violence.

as, to cafi feed.
Caji the duft into the brook.
Dcutcrommy.
:

Exodus.

Deuteimomy

6.

Tofhcd.

7.

To throw from a nigh place.

Nor fhall your vine cafl her fruit.

And this irrevocable fentence paft.
[froin cafier, French.]

Mjlaihf.

all

20.

No ma.-tial projeft to furprife.

fpeak for your own profit, not that I may ciij!
1

Ccr, vii. 3^.

They Jet down the boat into the fea, as though
they W'luld have c^Jl anchor.
j^fli, xxvii. 30.
10.

To throw dice, or lots.
Ani Jolhua laf lots for them in Shiloh.

1.

To fhrmv, in wrellling.

caji

2.

hin.

Hhakejpeare.

To throw, as worthlcfs or hateful.
His carca'.'i: wi> n.Jl in the way.
thrtniihi.
His friends contend to embalm his body j his

eriemits, that they may caj} it i> the do^s.

To drive by violence of weather.
F^owbcit we muft be cajl upon a certain ifland.
^ieli.

What length of lands, what ocean have you
pafs'd.

What ftnrms fuftain'd, and on what (hore been
f,i/7

14.

?

Drjdtn.

To emit.

This lumes off in the calcination of th- (lone,
IVoodtu.Trd.
and ciijis a fulphurc^ius I'mcll.

15.

more in policy than

in malice; even fo as

would beat his o/fcncelefs dog,

to aft'right an

To bring fuddcnly or unexpedUdly.

one
im-

Shakejpeare.

To leave behind in a race.
In (hort, fo Iwifc your judgments turn and wind,

Vou cafi our fleeted wits a mite behind. Vrydtn.
23.

To (hed

to moult

;

;

to

let

fall

;

to lay afide f

to change for new.

Our chariot loft her '.heels, their points our
fpears.

The bird of conqvicft her chief feather cafi. Vairf,

Of plants fome arc green all winter, others c„/?
Bacoti^s Natural Hifinry,

their leaves.

Poje^s i^J/tiy if Homer.

13.

To caftiier.
/ou are but now cafi in his mood, a puni(hnient

22.

And 1 think, being too ftror.g for him, though
he took my legs fomctime, yet 1 made a Ihift to
1

21.

perious linn.

'Jopua, xviii. 10.
1

To defeat.
Can ever be attempted twice;
Nor cafi dejign i'crve afterwards.
As gamcrters tear their lofing cards. liudiUau

To drop ; to let fall.

9.

the other, to cafi our London efcheatour.

Cttmdcn* Rcmaintt
Were the cafe referred to any compete.it judge,
they would inevitably be caji.
Decay oj Piety r,

To throw as a net or fnare.
I

Drydyr,

To overcome or defeat in a law fuit.

19.

Bear Itim to tl>e rock Tarpcian, and from thence
In;o dertruflion CiT,'? him. Shakeff>eare*sCoriolanui.

a fnare upon you.

!

The northern men were agreed, and in c:f!'c&!

CaJi them inEO the Red Sea.
Cttji them into another land.

8.

!

c-jl

Chnvirla-

4.

Go'vernment of the Tongue,

He could not, in this forlorn cife, have made
ufe of the very laft plea of a cafi criminal ; nor fo

Matthew.

Slings to caj} ftones.

notion of defcent, or

depreffion : as, the king was cafi from
his throne.
Jefus had heard that John was cajf loto prifoii.

To throw, as from an engine.

3.

Cassia, n.f. The name of a tree.
,ng, taper, or Cat po.J,

Macc^ vii. 80.

Then cafi thy fword away.

bread.

1

wounds of thofe

with the

ftate,

darts, which envy cajietb at novelty, than to go on

Cassamuka'ir. «./. An aromatick ve-

cultivated.
Calmet.
All ihy garment* fmeil of myrrh, nlcrs, ami
tKnia.
yjalm n\\.l.

This is a

To throw with the hand.

1.

have writ my letters, cajlttid my treafure, and
given order for oor horfts.
Slakeffxarf,

with the veins and leaves of a parpljfh
colour ; but the ftalks of the other are
green, and the leaves of a lighter green.
The laftfort is not venomous, even when
the roots are frefh and full of juice ;
which the negroes frequently dig up,
roaft, and eat, like potatoes, without
MiUer.
any ill eiFedts.
Ca'ssaware. See Cassiowary.
Ca'ssia. ». yl A fweet fpice mentioned
by Mr/es, Ex. xx.r. 24. as an ingredient
in the compofition of the holy oil, which
was to be made ufe of in th*; confecration of the I'acred veflTels of the tabernacle.
This aromatick i^faid to be
the bark of a tree very like cinnamon,
and grows in lh« Indies without being

particip.

;

[kafier, Danilh.]

word of multifarious and indehnitc ufe.

1

Of this there are two forts.
The mod common has purplith ftalks,

2 Kingt, xix. 31.

At length BarbarolTa having fa/? up his trenches,

Earth-worms will come forth, and moles will
cofi up more, and fleas bite moie, againft rain.
Bec'tii Nmtiral Uijtory,
17. To put into or out of any certain

To

put in a cafket.

of America, where the root, after being
diveiled of its milky juice, is ground to
flour, and then made into cakes of

arrnw there, nor come before it
with Ihield, nor Crt/? a bank againft it.

His fcanty falary tompelled him to run deep in
debt for a new gown and cajock, and now ind then
forced him to write fome paper of wit or humour,
neceffides.

To Ca'sket. -v. a. [from the noun.] To

Casja'tion. ». /. [cafuiot Lat.] A
Diff.
making null or void.
Ca'ssavi. 7 "/• A plant. It is cultiCa'ssada. 3 vated in all the warm parts

city, nor (hoot an

ahikeffiarr.

Pcpt.

fetable, being a fpecies of galangal,
rought from the Eaft, a nervous and
^incy.
ftomachick fimple.
To Ca'ssate. t. a. [cajjfir, Fr. cajfare,
low Lat.] To vacate; to invalidate j to
make void ; to nullify.
This opinion fuperfedei and eajpitn the beft meRiiy on tit Creaticv^
dium we have.

Luke.

The king of Afl'yria (hall not come into this

landed fitty-four pieces of artillery for battei-y,

themfclves to pieces.

Ca'ssweed. tt./. A common weed, other-

fure

Ottvay.
Ic one dear <afiti, and fav'd only that.
This cajket India's glowing gems unlocks,

left they Ihake

Spenfcri Fairy ^een.

ciay.

Thine enemies (hall caj! a trench about th''c.

off theii

or preach a ferraon for ten Ihillings, to fufply his

That had by chance pack'd up hii choiccft trea-

hath a ryl-nJrical,

And (hooting in the earth, cajls up a mount of

have a clear idea of the relation of dam and
chick, between the two caJJii-iatrUs in St. James's
park.
Lorki.

Ca'ssock. n.f. [cafaqttf, Fr.] A clofe
Ca'sket. 71./. [a diminutive of caiji,
garment ; now generally that which
fmall
A
Fr. cafe, caffftu.'\
a. cheft,
clergymen wear under their gowns.
box or cheft for jewels, or things of

It

To

raife.

I

His tremHing hands, and crufli beneath i cajk
jiddifon.
His wrinkled brows ?

And all Arabia breathes from yonder box.

Content tJicmfelves with that wiiich was the
irremediable error of former time, or the necertity
of the prpfent hath cafi upon thcra.
Htcker.
16.
bt'ild by throwing up earth; to

in the Eaft Indies.

Prydeti.

Why does tie load with darts

*^

;

.

The cafiing oP

the (kin

i ,
by the ancients,
con-pared t.> the breaking of tlie fcundine, or
cawl, b'lt not righfly j for that were to make
every cafiing of the (kin a new birih
and bcddes,
the fecundine is but a general cover, not (haped
according to the parts, but the (k4n is ihaped ac.
cording to riic parts.
The crcaturi'S that cafi the
Ikio, are the fnake, the viper, the gralshopper, the
:

lizard, the ftllcworiti,

Wr.

Bacmt

O fertile head, which ev*ry year
Cou! <'<tc\\ ? crop of wonders be^ir!
Wi.i^h ijii^S" it licver have been tafif
:!

Each -jCii:: growth added to the bit,
"

The

;

CAS

A loftl wandering by the vixy.

The earth's bold Ions proiiigious pride. Waller.
The waving harvrft bends bfneath his blaft,
•The toreft (hakes, the groves their honours cafi,
Drydtn.

From hencr, my lord, and Iovp, I thus conclude,
That though my homely anceftors wtre rude.
Mean a. I am, jet may I liave the grace
To make yiu father of" a generous race :
«And noble then am 1, when 1 bvgin.
In vhtuc cloth'd, to teji the rags of /in. Drydn.
fcafon, having ca!l great quantities of ribbon and
cambrick, and reduced the human figuie to iht
beautiful globular form.
Mrlifin

To lay afide, as fit to be ufed or worn

But now our fcarj tempeftuous grawr,

One that to bounty never eafi his mind \
Ne thought of heaven ever did afTay,

And caft cur hopes <iu>iiy

Be^in, aufpicious boy, to caft about

Thy jnfmt eyes, and, with a fipilc, thy mother
Drydcn's Virgilfir eallward caft thine eye, from whence the (an
lingle out.

-And orient fcicncr, at a birth begun. Pope's Dun.
He then led me to the rock, and, placing me on
the top of it, Caft thy eyes eaitward, faid be, aid

me what thou feed.
yirldifi".
;
to form by running in a
mould.

tell

no longer.
So may rajl poets write ;
To argue lofs of wit, from Icfs of penfion. Dryden.
there '» no pretenfion

He hai ever been of opinion, that givi.'ig cof:
clothes to be vfjrn by valets, has a very ill effefl
upon little minds. .
Aidijon.
25. To have abortions ; to bring forth before the time.

To found

32.

When any fuch ctirioui work of filver is to be
(aft,

Centfii.

To make to preponderate

to decide
;
by overbalancing; to give overweight.
Which being inclined, not conllrained, contain

26.

and a power to
Brown^s Vulgar Err,
command theconcluiion.
How much intereft cefii the balance in cafes

witliin theiT'.felves the cajiing acS,

South,
dubious.
Life and death are equal in themfelves.
That which could caft the balance, is thy fal/hood.

Dryden.
Not many years ago, it fo happened, that a
coblcr had the cajiing vote for the life of a criminal, which he very g acioudy gave on the merAddiji.n tn Italy,

ciful fide.

Boyle,

How to build Ihips, and dreadful ordnance caft,
Waller.

Jnlh-uft the artift.

The father's grief reftrain'd his art
He twice elTay'd to caft his fon in gold,
Twice from

Prior,

Dryden.

mould.

To melt metal into figures.
Yon' crowd, he might refieil, yon joyful crowd
With reftlcfs rage would pull my ftatue down,
Prior,
And caft the brafs anew to his renown.
i
This was but as a refiner's fire, to purge out the
drofs, and then caft the mafs again into a new
Burnetts Theory,
mould.
34. To model ; to form by rule.'
We may take a quarter of a mile for the com-

33.

their logical, their metaphyfical, and their theological and moral learning into this method.
JVatts's Lcgick,

cannot
!

35

.

nation.

The glorious Daphnii cafts on his illullrious race.

You ceiji th' event of uar, my noble Lord,
And fumm'd th' account of chance, before you

We may happen to find a fairer light m^ over

faid,

Shakefjpeare,

So bright a fplendour,

Dryden.
the fame fcriptures, and fee reafon to alter our
fcntiments even in fome paints of moment.
JVatti on the Mind.

36. To yield, or give up, without rcferve
or condition.
The reafon of mankind cannot fuggeO^any fdlid

Bacort'i EJ/ays'
I

have lately been cajlinr in

my thoughts the

frveral unhappinefies of lite, and com;;aring the
infelicities of (dd age to thofc of infancy, jiddijc,

to pkn out.
The cloifter facl-x; the S luth is covered with
vines, and would have been proper for an orangehoUfef and had, 1 doubt not, been cap for that
purpofc, if this piece of gardening had been then
^'fmfle.
in as much vogue as it is now.

28.

To contrive

To judge ;
judgment.

;

to

29.

If thou couldrt,

To rejeft

43. To caft down.
the mind.

;

to deprefs

We 're not the firit,
Who, with beft meaning, hare incurr'd the worft
For thee, opprellcd king, I am caft do^vn ;

:

Mjfelf could clfe outfrown falfe fortune's frown.
Shakeffeare.

The beft w.iy will be to let him fee you are much
caft doitin, and

affliiied, for the

ill

tertains of you.

opinion he enAddijon,

To emit.
44. To caft forth.
He (hall grow as the lily, and caft forth his roots
as Lebanon.

Hcjea,

To ejefl.

45. To caft forth.

1 caft forth all the houfehold ftufF.

They caft me forth into the fea.

Nehemiah,
yonah.

To difcard to put away.
The prince wilTjin the perfedlnefs of time,
Shake/pare.
Ca^ 0^ his followers.
Caft me not 0^ in the time of old age. Pfalmu
He led me on to mightieft deeds.
But now hath caft me off, as never known. Milton,
;

How not call him father ? I fee preferment
alers a man ftrangely i this may fcrve me for an

ground of fatisfjOion, but in makng God our
friend, and in carrying a confcience io clear, as
may encourage us, with confidence, to caft ourfelvcs
South,
upon hi»m.

37.

To inflift.

The wjrid is apt to caft great blame on thofe
who have an indiffercncy for opinions, cfpecially in
Leckc.

religion.

38. To caft afide.

To difmifs as ufdefs or

ufe of inftruftion, to caft off my fathtr,

when

am great.

Dryden,

'

I

I long to clafp that haug'ity maid.
And bend her ftubborn virtue to my paflion :

When 1 have gone thus far, I'd caft her off. AdJ'if,
To caft off. To rejetft.
'

47.

be imagined, that a whole fociety
oi men fhould publickly and iprofillcdly difown
and caft off i rule, which they could not but be inLocke,
fallibly certain was a law.
It is not to

To

dilburden one's felf of.
To caft off.
All coiifpired in one to caft oj^ their I'ubjeAion
to the crown r»f England. Sf>e^fer*s State of Ireland,

48.

of thofe very afiairs, which do moft concern their
eflatc.

Miltsn.

To fix the parts in a play.

)u\d mankind will be there ranged in different Na-

eye or mjiid.

When men, prefuming themfelves to be the only
mafters of right reafon, caft by the votes and opinions of the reft of mankind, as not worthy of
reckoning.
Locke,

Not taft afide fo fooii.

Our parts in v.p other *orld will be new caji,

;

Hooker,

felves for ever.

Ihave bought
Golden opinions from all Pirt of people.
Which would be worn now in tli'-ir newcfl glofs.

To (afi the f.</hion of uncertain evils.

To glance

by an overfome one a^ or treaty between them and

dodor, caff

Sbaiefpeare,
Peace, brother, be not over exquifite

51.

It is no impofiibic thing'for dates,

fight in

inconvenient.

) would applaud thee.

tions of fuiariorijy.

Melijtn'i Can,

To ruin.

7i caft anuay.

41.

confider in order to

The water of my land, find her difeafc.
And purge it to a found and priftine health,

JO.

Ben Jonfim*
there's hope.

!

the manifold

there are, which a man cannot do iiimfelf.

ftill

46. To caft off.

fo divine a grace.

ufe of friend (hip, is to cajl and fee howmany things

life

!

S J needful to us all, and to his country.

To communicate by reflexion or ema-

Sbokcf^eare.
His love to Antony.
Here is now the fmith's note for ihoeing and
plow-irons.— I.et it be eaji and paid. Shakeffeare.

\£t us make head.
The beft way to reprefent to

fentences in vain.

Maicia, O my filter

mon mcafure of the depth of the fea, if it were c<i^

Hearts, tosgues, jlgurCf fcribes, bards, poets,

Think, fpeak, caftt write, fing, number, ho

1

Our father will not caft cnvay a life

Caft by their grave befceming ornaments. Shakcjf,

his hands he drepp'd the forming

Vnder this influence, derived from mathematical Audits, fome have been tempted to caft all

to reckon ; to calculate.

H

To rejedl or diOnifs, with
42. To caft by.
negleft or hate.
Old Capuler, and Montague,
Have made Verona's ancient citizens

In this fad Itate, your doubtful choice
Would never have the eajlitig voice.
;

Rtttigh'i Efayu

France, haft thou yet more blood to caft atvay t
Say, (hail the current of our right run ou ^ Sbak*
He might be filent, and nut caft antay

muft be kept a cunfiderable while in a flrong fufir>n.

Upon two diftant pots of ale;

To compute

Dorfrt.

40. To caft anuay. To lavifli ; to wafte in
profufion ; to turn to no ufe.
1 hey that want means to nourifh children, will
abliain from marriage ; or, which is all one, they
caft av)ay their bodies upon rich old women.

their potent oppofites, utterly to caft avaay t'em-

into a channel of an equal depth every where.
Btunct's Ihtory of the Earth,

Suppofe your eyes fent equal rays

27.

requires that the imprelfi n of hairs, or

Sit ca^^elefs at a play.

very (lender lines, be taken of? by the metal, it is
not enough that the filver be barely malted, but it

Thy ewes and thy /he-goats have not cafi their
young.

as

j

Whilft you, regardlefs of our woe.

-

Speafer.
His bafer brcaft.
Zelmanes'i languifhing countenance, with crolfed arms, and fumecimes cafi up eyes, ihe thought
Hidney,
to have an excellent grace.
As he pad along,
How earneftly he (aft his eyes upon me ! Shakijp.

The ladies have been in a kind of inotiltin^

24.

CAS

CAS

Tlic lofty !>iiincht»li»d fupply'i!

'

,

Addtfon.

to dire£b: applied to the

39.

To caft antiay.

Shakejptare,

To ftiipwreck.

Sir Francis Drake, andIJo
John Thomas, meeting
with a ftorm, it thruft John
Job Thomas upon the
illands to the South, where be was caft atvay,

Raleigh I Effap
His father Philip had, by like mifhao, been like
to have been iaji aivay upon the coaft of England.
Knolless Hftwy of the Turks.
With pity mov'd tor others caft atvay

On rocks of hope and fears.

Rofcmmon,

This m.iketh them,

through an unweariablc

defire of receiving inftru£tion, Co caft off the care

Hooker, Preface.

The true reafon why any man is an atheift, ii
religion would curb
hccaufe he is a wicked man
:

him in his lufts

;

and therefore he cafts \xoff, and

Tilh fon.
puts all the ii:orn upon it he can.
Company, in any action, gives credit and coun-

tenance to the agent; and fo much as the finnet
gets of this, fo much he cafts off of (hatne. South,
(ee they never fail to exert tl emteives, and

We

to caft off tlie oppreirion, when they feel tlie weight

of iU

AJdiJim,

49-

n

J;

CAS

CAS
So when a ibrt of lufty fliepherds throvir

49. To iaft off. To leave behind.
Away he Icours crofs the fields, cafis of the
dogs, and gains a wood : but pre/fing through a
thicket, the bulhes held him by the horns, till the
bounds came in, and plucked him down.

CAS

The bar by turns, and none the rcll outgo

Tlie qualities of blood in a healthy ftate are t(*
be florid, the red part congealing, and the feruoi

So far, but that the reft are meafuring caftt.
Their emulation and their paftime lafts. ffaller.

ought to be without any greenifli caft.
jlrbutinot on jiliments,

The thing thrown.

2.

13. Exterior appearance.

Yet all thefe dreadful deeds, this deadly fray,

50. To cafi off. [a hunting term.] To let go,
or fet free : *3, to cajt offihe dogs'.
To caj} out. To rejeft ; to turn out
I
q

Shaieffcarc.

mence.

Why doft thou cajl mil fuch ungenerous terms

game at tables ; thcie
what raft we ftall have is not in our power ; but
to manage it well, that is.
Norrit.

Thy foolifli ei rour find
55. To ciji upon.

We have three that bend thenjfelves, looking
into the experiments of their fellows, and caft
about how to draw out of them things of ufe^id
practice for man's life and knowledge.
Bactm'i Nna jlialamh.

But firft he caftt to change his proper ihape ;
IVhich elfe might work him danger or delay.

Bujilrai,

among inanimate ho-

are mechanically produced according Co the
determipate figures, tenturei, and motions of tliofe
bodies, which are not confcious of their own ope.
rations, nor contrive and caft about how to bring
fuch events to pafs.
Beyti/ey.

llies,

This way asd that I caft to (ave my friends.
Till one refolvc my varying counfel ends.

they will offer to
themfelves.

If^aihuarti on Fojfili.

or that way >

11.

to look

;

Have of death ; or only rementiber, at our caftaivay
Raleigh's Hiftory,

Ca'steo. The participle preterite of caft,
but improperly, and found perhaps only
in the following paflage.
When the mind is quicken'd, out of doubt,
The organs, tho' defunft and dead before.
Break up their drowfy grave, and newly move

With cajled (lough, and frelh legerity. Sbaiefpcare.

Ca'stellain. rt. ft. [caftellavo. Span.
The captain, governor, or cpnftable of

Ca'stellany.

operations, nor contrive and caft about to bring
fur h events to pall.
Bcntlcy'i Scrnunu

12.

A (hade

;

i

the ex-

[from, caftle. "l

In-

clofed within a building, as a fountain

Di3.

or ciftern caftellated.

A thrower

;

hethatcafts.

If with this throw the ftr9ngeft eafter vie, '
Pope.
Still, further ftill, I bid the difcus fly.

A calculator;

2.

a man that calculates

fortunes.
Did any of t' em fet up for a eafter of fortunate
figures, what might he not get by his prediftions f

a form.

u^ddifort*

To CA'STIGATE..t;. a. [caftigo, Lat.]

To chaftifc ; to chaften

or tendency to any colour.

;

to correft ; to

punifti.
If thou dldft put this four cold habit on.

which the talky matter makes the grwre.'t part of
Ui'e ro»f«'

The

[from cafte!.'\

tentof its land and jurifdiftion. Philltps^

Ca'stellated. adj.

1.

A flaky mafs, grey, with a caft of green, in

a throw, j

n.ft,

lordftiip belonging to a caftle ;

^

bur in another caft and figure than any that ever
had been written before.
Prior,

Inanimate bodies are not confcioiif of their own

of no value.

Ca'ster. n.f. [from To caft.'\

South.

A mould

Cor.

Ufe-

leifure, the impiifoned immortal foul.

Spinfer on Ireland.

The whole would have been an heroick poem,

•ior means.

i

We only prize, pamper, and exalt this vaffal and

come to you, and fubmit

Drydcn.
Will you turn recreant at tht Wi\ caft ? Drydin.
In tht laft war, has it not fometimes been an
even caft, whether the array (hould march this way

Michanical Extrcifii.

;

lefs ;

And fight, like Hanniba), to lofe at fall.

Stuff is faid to caft or warp, when, by it» own
drought, or moifture of the air, or other accident,
it alters its flatnefs and ftraightnef;.

Cast, n /. [from the verb.]
I. The aft of caiUng or throwing
Vol. I.

Shat.

With better grace an ancient chief may yield
The long contended honours of the fieid.
Than venture all his fortune at a caft.

to grow out of form.

;

to others, I myfelf Hiould be a caftavcay.

a caftle.
!

Venture from throwing dice ; chance
from the fall of dice.
When you have brought them to the very lift

caft,

mould, un'efs mixfd with poorer ore,

To contrive

All at one ro^j to f«t fo rich a main
On the nice hazard if fome dc^ubtful hour

when I have preached

Ca'staway. adj. [from the fubft.]

To fet the exaft wealth of all our ftates

Pope,

It comes at the firft fufion into a mafi tliat is
.immediately nnalleable, and will not run thin, fo as

Af:x«<i'i

Left that by any means,

you fee, with one caft of an eye, the fubftance of
above an hundred pages. MMJ. on Anciert MeJah.

He that fquints is faid popularly to have
a caft with his eye.
9. The throw of dice.
Were it good.

Hooka-.

caftatuays.

10.

2. To admit of a. form, by cafting or melting.

To caft about.

Neither given any leave to fearch in particular

who are the heirs of the kingdom of God, wh»

8.

To fave his credit.

4.

dence ; any thing thrown away.

let

As a fox, with hot purfuit

;

A peribn loft, or abandoned, by Provi-

Stoift.

Motion of the eye; direftion of the eye.

Thou fix them on the earth as faft. Milton.
They are the beft epitomes in the world, and

Milton.

To warp

Ca'staway. >!./. [from 1-a/? and aajtiiy.]

A

From that day forth, 1 caft in careful mind.

or cinders.

Congrevi's IVay of the IVo.ld.

This was a caft of Wood's politicks ; for his in-

Pity caufeth fometimes tears, and a flexion or
aCde; for pity is but grief in another's behalf; the caft of the eye is a gsflure of
averfion, or lothnefs, to behold the objed of pity.
Bacon^s Natural tiijiory,
man fliall be fare to have a coft of their eye
warn
him,
to
before they give him a caft of their
nature to betray him.
South.
If any man icfirej to look on this doArine of
gravity, let him turn the firft caft of his tyes on
what we have faid of fire.
Digby on tbc Soul.
There, held in holy puflion ftill.
Forget thyfelf to marble, till.
With a fad leaden, downward caft.

To feek her out with labour and long time. Spnfer.

3.

ther by the ears like a pair of ca(iancts.

caft of the eye

Spirfcr,

Chas'd thro' a warren, caft aboot

to have exprcifcd provocation, they had gone toge-

Stvift,

formation was wholly falfe and grnundlefs.
.

enow between them,

If thf^c had been words

Stmtk.

faithful and diligent fervicc of the queen.

To

a race ;

;

ftiell
of ivory, or hard wood, which
dancers rattle in their hands.

Another cjft of their politicks, was that of endeavouring to impeach an innocent lady, for lier

DryJn.

Sidniy^

A breed

[Cafta, Spanifti.]

Ca'stan ET.».yl \caftanp.ta, Sp.] A fmall

a t*uch.

a caft of their court prophecy.

To Cast. v. n,
I . To contrive ; to turn the thoaghts.
Then, clofcly as he might, he cujl to icave

to caft and

;

about a
Luke.

We have them all with one voice for giving him

refer to ; to refign to.
If things were cafi upcn this iflue, that Cod
Ihould never prevent fin till roan dcferved it, the
bid would fin and fin for ever.
Smth.

All events called cafual,

A ftroke

.

B. Jcmjtin.

The court, not alking any pafs or leave.

16.

a ijpecies.

And he was withdrawn from them
ftone's caft, and kneeled down aud prayej.

;

Caji up the poifoa that infetts thy mind.

rofe down unto the bulhes, as falcons will do wild

fowl over a river.

thrown.

ShahJ'pean.
!

A

The fpace through which any thing is

S-

hawks di{-

caft of merlins there was bcfides, which, flying of a gallant height, would beat tlie birds that

Some harrow their ground over, and fow wheat
or rye on it with a broad cafI; fome only with a
fingle caft, and fome with a double.
Mortimer.

To vomit.
54. To caft up.
Thou, bcaftly feeder, art fo full of him.
That thou provok'ft chyfclf to cajl him uf. Stat.
Their villainy goes againft luy weak ilomach,
Of that in tirrjc Rome did not cafi
Her errours up, this fortune to prevent

A flight; a number of
miffed from the fiH.

15.

Manner of throwing.

4..

Pope's Letters.

Neg!c£t not the little figures and turns on tSe
words, nor fometimes the v«ry caft of the periods
neither omit or confound any rites or cuftoms of
antiquity.
Fopconjiom-r.

BramhalPs y^njhver to Huh^ics.

TimpU.

and therefore 1 mull caji it up.

of, poetry.

Plato compares life to a

MJifon.
53. To caft up. To compute ; to calculate.

A man who deCgns to build, is very exacl, as
he fuppofes, in cojiing vf tlic coft beforehand j bur,
generally fpeaking, he is miiiaken in his account.
Drydtn.

Pretty conceptions, finte metaphors, glittering
exprelSons, and fomcthing.of a neat caft of verfe,
are properly the drefs, gems, or loofc ornaments,

but, in this cafe, the /-a/! is neceffary.

Againll the lords and Ibvereigns of the world ?

beauty, and riches.

Some fcenes, iome perfons altcr'd, and outfac'd
The world.
Sir J. Denbam^
14. Manner ; air ; mien.

In his own inftance of cafting ambs-ace, though
partake more of contingency than of freedom ;
fuppofing the pofitnre of the party's hand, who did
throw the dice ; fuppoCng the figure of the table,
and of the dice themfelves ; fuppofing the meafure
of force applied, and fuppofing all other things
which did concur to the produfticn of that ca^,
to bj the very fame they v/erc, tliere is no doubt

52. Tocajtout. To vent ; tofpeak: with
fome intimation of negligence or vehe-

Shut.

New names, new dreflings, and the modern caft.

it

of doors.
Thy brat hith been taji out, like to itfelf, no

Some writers, in cafiin^ itf> the goods rooft delirable in life, have given them chi* rank, health:

Is fickljed o'er with the pale caft of thought.

State of any thing caft or thrown.

3.

.

father owning it.

Tlie native hue of refclution

A cnft of dreadful luft will foon allay. Dry J. f^irg

To caftlgoie thy pride, 'twere well.

IVotdiaard.
'

Nn

Shekefpeare.

Castiga'tion

.

Castica'tion. «./. [from 7* iaJl'gaU.I
'

Penance ; difcipline.

I.

CJSrO'REVM.

[from cajfor. In
n. f.
pharmacy.] A liquid matter included
in bags or purfes, near the anus of the

.

Tills hand of yours rf quires

A fequeJlcr trom liberty

falling and priycr,

j

Wirli cfljii^aticny excrcifc dtvoui^

callor, falfely taken for his tefticles.

hhak'Jpiare.

Punifhment ; coriedion.

s.

were accompanied with encouragements j whi<li care was talceii to keep me
from looking upon as mere complinicuts.
Bof!t.
'I'hcir

cajltgaticni

Emendation ; reprcffivc remedy.

3.

The ancients had
theie floods and

thefe

coiijciSutei toocliing

conflagrations,

a?

Co

to

tVame

them into an liypothefis i"or the cjjligaikit of the
exceflfes of

generation.

Ca'sticator. Y.

//j/r.

[from

ar/j.

cfijligale.'\

Funicive, in order to amendment.
There were other ends of penalties inAiftcd,
Bramhail agnirjl HMes.
ntt.'\

n. f.

[from (afting and

A net to be thrown into the water,

not placed and left.

camping.
To CA'STR.^TE. v, a. \caftro, Lat.]

To geld.
2. To take away the obfcene parts of a
1.

writing.

Castra tion. n. f. [from cajlrate.^ The

Mfy't y'lrgU.

CA'STLE. n.f. {cnpllum, Lat.]

A ftrong houfe, fortified

againft af-

faults.

The caftU of MacdufF I will furprifc.

The largeft needle (hould be ufed, in taking up
Sharp's Surg.

^

Ca'steril. 7
A kind of hawk.
Ca strel. 5
Castre'nsi AN. adj. [ca/lrenJijyhit.lBe-

C.A'SUAL. adj.

Di(S.

The revenue of Ireland, both certain and cajual,
Daviet on Jrsland.
fortune,

Thefe were but like cejilii in ib< air, and in
men's fancies vainly imagined.

A

irora Caflile/oap.']
kind of foap.
I have a letter from a foap-boilcr, dcfiring me
to write upon the prefenC duties on CajlU-foap.
'AJdifoi:.

Ca'stled. adj. [from cajlle.'\

Furniftied

with caftles.
The horfes neighing by ihc wind is b'own,
And cafiUd elephants o'erlook the town. DryJei.
Ca'stleward. n.f. [from cajile and
tward.^

An impofition laid upon

of the king's
fubjcels, as dwell within a certain compafs of any
caftle, toward the maintenance of fuch as watch
and ward the cadle.
Coive/1.
fuch

Ca'stling. ». /. [from fa/?.] An abortive.

We fliould rather rely upin the urine of a eajlllng'i bladder,

a refolution of crabs eyes, or a fe-

conJ dillillation of urine, as Helmont hath commended.
Brmvni l^ulgar Errours.

Ca'stor, or Chester, are derived from
the Sax. ceaprip, a city, town, or caftle ; and that from the Latin caftrum :
the S.xxons chufmg to fix in fuch places
of ftrength and figure, as the Romans
had before built or fortified.
Gii/on's Camden.
Ca'stor. n.f. [cn^er, Lat.]
\. A beaver.
See Beaver.

A fiery meteor, which appears
logy.]
fometiraes (licking to g p^rt of the (hip,
in form of one, two, or even three or
four b.ilis.
When one is feen alone,
it is called Helena, which portends the
fevered part of the ftorm to be yet behind ; two are denominated Cafior and
Pollux, and fometimesTyiidarides, which
portend a ceflation of the ftorm.

+

Chamb.

jet dlfpufed by the ordinance of God.
Ralrigh's Hijiiry.

Had wafted woods, on mountain, or in vale,
Aiihcn,
Down to the veins of earth.
The commiflioners entertained themfclves by
tlie fire-fidc in general

and cn/vj/difcourfes.
Clarendon.

have been found out by
f<i/i<a/ emergency, and have been the works of time
of
philofophy. Glanville.
chance,
rather
than
and
The expences of fome of them always exceed
their certain annual income ; but feldom their cafual fupplies. I call them cajual, in compliance
Auerhury.
with the common form.

Moll of our

rarities

Ca'sually. ad-v. [from cafual.']
dentally ;

without defign,

Acci-

or fet pur-

pofe.

Go, bid my woman
Search for a jewel, that too cajually
Shahefptari.
Hath left mine arm.
Wool new fliorn, laid cafuaUy u^on a veliel of

had drunk up the verjuice, though the
Bacon.
v-lTcl was without any flaw.
I flioull have acquainted my judge with one advantage, and which I nowra/aj/^retnember. Dryd.
verjuice,

Ca'sualness. n.f. \(iom cafua\^

Ac-

And founded cajuifts doubt, like you and me ? Po/T.
Casui'stical. a<^". [from fa/a//?.] Relating to cafes of confcience ; contain*
ing the doftrine relating to cafes.
What arguments they have to beguile poor, fimple, unliable fouls witli, I know not ; but furely
the praiSlical, raju'jiical, that is, the principal, vini
part 'of their religion Civours very little of fpiiiSitiib.

Ca'suistry.
fcience

[from cafulj{.'\ The
cafuill ; the dodrine of

n. f.

of a

cafes of confcience.
This concefliin would not pat for good ciffrjfry
in thefe ages.

fofe'i Odyffiy. Ifotes.
Moralitj , by her falfe guardians drawn,
Chicane in furs, and cafuijlry in lawn.

Ca'su alty. n./. [from fflA<i/.]
Accident ; a thing happi,iing by chance,
1
V/ich more patience men endure the lolTes that
them by mere caftiahy, than the damages
which they fullain by injuftice. Ratcigb'i Ejj'ays.
befa'l

That

Oi5lavius

Cajfar fhould fhift his

camp

happened to be took by the
enemy, svas a mere cajiielty ; yet it prcferved a
perfun, who lived to ellabiilh a total altcratirm of
government in the imperialcity of the world. South,

2.

'1'was you incens'd the rabble :
Cats, that can judge as fitly of his worth.

As I can of thofe myfterics, which heav'n
Will not have earth to know. Shaiejp. Coriclann,
Thrice the brindcd cat hath mew'd.
Shakefftare's Macielh.
A cat, as fhe beholds the light, draws the ball
of her eye fmall and long, being covered over with
a green Ikin, and dilates it at picafure.
Pi-achjm on Dratuirg,
fort of (hip.
Cat. n.f.

A
Cat in the pan. [imagined by fome to be
rightly written Catipan, as coming from

An unknown correlpondent
Catipania.
imagines, very naturally, that it is corrupted from Cate in4he pan.']
There is a cunning which we, in England, call
the cat in the pan ; which is, when
thit which a man fays to another, he lays it as if
another had faid ic to him.
Bacon,
tl*e tur.iing of

Cat 0' nine tails. A whip with nine lafhes,
ufed for the puniihment of crimes.

Vou dread reformers of an imj-'ous age,
You awful cat 0' nine tails to the flage.
This once be juft, and in our caufe engage.
Prologue to yanbrugh's Falfe Friend,

CATJCHRESIS.
It is, in

[xaraxei^K, a-

n. f.

rhctorick, the abufeof a

trope, when the words are too far wreft-

ed from their native

fignification ; or

when one word is abufivcly put for ano-

'\

not defign.

that night that

meftick animal that catches mice, commonly reckoned by naturaiifts the loweH
order of the leonine fpecies.

bufe.]

cidentalnefs.

Like hunted cafiors confcious of their ftore,
to
Norway's coaft they
bring.
DryJen.

A fine hat made of the fur of a beaver.
CASTOR and POLLUX- [In meteoro-

is

Whether found where cajaal fire

Their waylaid wealth
2.

AddiJ'^**

Who fhall decide when do3ors difagrce,

Pope's DsinciaJ.

That which foemeth mod cafual and fubjeiil to

'Raleigh's Hi/lcry of the Wcrld.

rights of princes.

CAT. n.f. [iatz, Teuton, chat, Fr.] A do-

2. Castles intht air. [chateaux iPEfpagne,

Castle-soap. n.f. [I fuppofe corrupted

You can fcarcc Ice a bench of porten witbcuc
two or three cajuifis in it, that will (ettte yoa the

Fr. from cq/us,

[ca/iiel,

did not rife unto ten thoufand pounds.

Projects without reality.

vine, concerning the Hate of a man's foul, i< not
fuBicient to giva him confidence.
Smth.

Lat.] Accidental ; arifing from chance ;
depending upon chance ; not certain.

Sbaitfp.

Fr.]

The judgment of any cajuifi, or learnt! di-

tualiry.

art of gelding.

longing to a camp.

CtiJI'ag-rtts did rivers bottoms fwcep.

J.

Chamberi.

Casti^ameta'tion. n.J. [from caftrametor, Lat.] The art or prattice of en-

the fpermatick vefiUs in cafrathn.

eitirer probatory, ^a^igatciy, or rxrmplary,

Ca'stinc-net.

CAT

CAS

CAS

iv

Chance that produces unnatural death.
Builds in the weather on the outward wall,
Ev'n in the force and road ofcafuahy. Sbakejpran.
It is ohferved in particular nations, that, within
the fpace of two or three hundred years, notwithilanding all cafuahits, the number of men doubles.
Burnet's The-^r^.

We find one cafualtf in our bills, of wliich,
though there be daily talk, there is little cffcfl.
Graur.t't Bills of Mortj/iiy.

Ca'.9uist. n.f. [cafuifte, Fr. from cafits,
Lat.] One thit (ludies and fettles cafes
of confcience.

ther, for want of the proper word ;
a voice beautiful to the ear.

as,

Smith's Rhetorick,

CataCH Re'sticaL. adj. [homcalachrefis.']

Contrary to proper ufe ; forced;

far fetched.

A caiaikrijiicat and far derived fimilitude

it

holds with men, that is, in a bifiircation.
^
Broivn's Vulgar F.rrourt,
^

Ca'taCLYSM.

n. f.

[xaraxXta-y©-.]

A

deluge ; an inundation ; ufed generally
for the univerfal deluge.

The opinion that held thefe ratactyfms and empyrnfes unive. fal, was fuch as held that it put a
totjl confummation unto things in :hls lower
world.

.

Hale's Origin of Mankind,

Ca'tacombs. n.f. [from xani, and xo^*C©-. a hollow or cavity.] Subterraneous
cavities for the burial of the dead ; of

which

.

wliicK tTiere are a great

CAT

CAT

CAT

Of heav'n fct open, on the earth (hal! ijotir

number about

and where they in'-erred the martyrs,
which are accordingly vifitcd with deBut, anciently, the word cata- Ca'taract. [In medicine.] A fuffufion
votion.
of the eye, when little clouds, motes,and
comb was only underilood of the tombs
flies feem to iioat about in the air; when
Chambers.
of St. Peter and St. Paul.
confirmed, the pupil of the eye is eiOn tlic lide of Naples are the catacomisj which
itiuft i-.vr

been full of ftench,

if

is

put on a catagmatkk emplafter, and, by the

defluxion of a fharp ferura

parient is fuddcnly feized without fenfe or motion,
and remains in the fame poUure in which the
jiriuttitol.

Ca'talocue. a.y! [xaraJ-oy®-.] An enumeration of particulars ; a lift ; a regifter of things one by one.
In the caiahgue ye go for men,
Shovkghes, water rugs, and demy wolves, are cleped
All by the name of dogs. Skakifpcare'i Macieth.
Make a catalogui of profperous facrilegious perfons, and 1 believe they will be repeated fooner than

^incy.

ArbulbiM on Dill.

Pat

!

—He comes

That phitofopher declares for tragedies, whofe

Both horfe and foot ; before him and behind.
2.

They have caught up every thing greedily, with
that bufy curiofity, and unlJrisfa£tory inquifitivencfs, which Seneca calls the difcal'c of the Greeks.
Pr.pe,

I've perus'd her well;

Beauty and honour in her are fo mingled,
That they have caught the kWig.

^hukefpeare'lIlmyVlW.
10.

A finil event

;

!

I.

:

could not do without catching coU, for want of
being accuftomcd to it,
Addifon^t Guardian,
Or call the winds tl r >' long arcades to roar.
Proud to catch cold at a Venetian door.
Pops,

Sfedator.

12.

Three catcall be the bribe

-The balilla violently ihuc great ftones and quar-

tribe.

preter. I catched or
caught \iii have catched or caught, \_kctfcn,

1

Yuu ctitai-acli and hurricanes, fpoue
Till you have drcnch'd our fteeplcs.

Sbakt(ptarc,

What .f all
Of lieil ftiould fpout her catiradi of fire ?
Mi/ioti't faraiiife L'lji.
lir,(.enJcnt horrours
!

To lay hold on with the hand intimating the fuddennefs of the action.
And when he arofc againft roc, I caught him
I

2.

To flop any thing flying

N'j fooner he, with them of man and beaft
SrUa for life, Aiall in th'- aik be lodg'd.

any thfng in the paflage.

Ami Ihcltct'd round } but

To Tufculum or A'gldu repair.

iill

the caiatafli

To Catch.

1/.

n.

:

by bis beard, and fmote him, and flew hitn.

Her ftorci were opcn'd, and tlie firmament

'
Addifon's State of the W»r,
Addifoti's

ing the fta-c.

Dutch.]
!

To endeavour fuddenly to

Saucy liftors
Will eatcb at us like ftrnmpets, and fcald ihimcrs
Ballad u; qut of tune. Shak, .'Inf.ny and Cleopatra,
Make thrra caii h ai iU opportunities of fubvert-

Pope.

Ca'taRACT. »./. [xaToi^axT)!.] A fall of To CATCH. V. a.
water from on high ; a Ihoot of water ;

To catch at.

lay hold on.

Of him, whofe chatt'ting fhames the m'Ankey

Camdin'i Rimaim.

Sbaieffejre's Merchant of fenke.

The foftell of our Britilh ladies expifc their
necks and arms to the open air; which the men

for a notorious rake that headed a party of catcall.

engine ufed anciently to throw Hones.

am to learn.

I

A

A young lady, at the theatre, conceived a paHion

An

Shakejp. IVttiter'i Tall,

Thofe meaOes,

Which we difdain'ftiould teeter us, yet feek
The very way to catch them. Shakefp. Corhlanus,
In footh I know not why I am fi fad
It wearies me; you fay it wearies you;
But how I caught it, foimd it, or came by it,

fqueaking inllrumcnt, ufed in the playhoufe to condemn plays.

jjrhutbmt on jllimenti,

cannot name the difeafe, and it is caught

Of you that yet are well.

a conclufion, generally

[from ca: atid call.]

to feize the aliedions ; to

To receive any contagion or difeafe.
I

j

n. /.

;

But, caught myfcif, lie ftruggling in the fnare,
D'yden,

Hzic was a mighty revolution, the moft horrible
and portentous catajf raphe that nature ever )et hw
an elegant and habitable earth quite Ihattercd.
fi^'uodtvard' i Natural li'tjlory,

Ca'tcal.

To pleafe

charm.
For I am young, a novice in the trade,
The fool of love, unpractis'd to pcrfuadc.
And want the foothiug arts that catch the fair.

unhappy.

A

a cafcade.
Blow, w inds, and crick yourcheeks ; rage, blow

Luke, xi. 54.

To feize eagerly.

9.

Dcnnii.

cipal characters.

Warm caiapUJpis difcuf*, but kalding hot may

the catjjulti.

To catch fomctbing out of his mouth, that theyt
might accufe him.

Shakifpiare.

cataftropbes are unhappy, with relation to the prin-

ries, as «lfo

Decay of Piety t

To feize unexpeiEledly.

8.

like the catafircfbe of the old

comedy.

On each fide went armed guards.

[catafulia, Lat.]

;

catch hold of every amicable exprellion ?

duces the conclufion or final event of a
dramatic piece.

A horfe-man in complete armour.

coniTrm the tumour.

to feize.
The mule went iinJer Ijic thick boughs of a
great oak, and his Jiead caught hold of the oak.
z Sam. xviii. 19.
Would they, like Benbadad's embafladors,

Cata'stROPHE. «. y; [y.xraJ^^n^ri.]
1. The change, or revolution, which pro-

Ca'taphract. ». /. [cataphia^arXiS.^.]

Ca'ta.pult. n.f.

Dryjcfi,

To faften fuddenly upon

/.•

Old age attended with a glutinous, eold, catarrbom, Itucophle^matick conftitution.

Arbuthnoi andPcpe^s Jliart» ScrthUrus.

poultice ; a foft and moift application.
1 bought in un^ion of a mountcuank.
So murtal, tiiat but dip a knife in it,
WlieiC it draws blood, no taiaplafm fo rare,
Co leded from all fimples chat have virtue
Under the moon, can lave, Shak-fpeare' s Hamlet.

The fpirks fliould caith his axletree of heav"n.

;

quill-darting porcupine.

[r.aTa.v>^a<riiX.]

liryilen.

But ftopp'i for fear; thws violently driv'n.

proceeding from a catarrh.
The catarrhal fever requires evacuarions. Floyer.

liue were iccn the glaring catamountaw, and the

n. /.

Tlie curling fmoke mounts heavy from the lires.

At length it cjtches Hame, and in 3 blaze expires.

Cata'rrhal. 7 "'O- U^om catarrh.']
Cata'rr hous. J Relatingto acatarrh

Catamo'untain.

Archers and Dingers, calafhrjlts and fpcars.
Milun'j Sampfcn jlgirifits.

To receive fuddenly.

6.

All fev'rous kinds,

ConvuI6on», epilepfies, fierce latarrhs. Parad.LoJI.
Neither was the body then fubjedl to die by
piecemeal, and languifh under coughs, catarrhs^
or confumptions.
South.

Stutb.

With all the fjilorn catalogu: of ftars. AiUif n't (hiiil.
n. /. [from cat and
mountain.] A fierce animal, refembling
a cit.
The klack prince of Monomopita, by whofc

adapted to c>itch ^nd entangle the mind, than co
inltru^ and inform t!ic undcrRanding.
Locke,

nerally occafioned

fpecies of the apoplexy, or epilepfy.
There is a difcafe called a catahpjisj wlierein the

Ca'taPLASM.

To enfnare ; to etuangle in a fnare ; to
take or hold in a trap.
And rhey fent unt.5 him certain of the Pharifce*
'and of the Herodians, to catch him in his wofdi.
Markf xii. 13.
Thefe artificial methods of rcafoning are more

5.

from the

glands about the head and throat, geby a diminution of
infenfible perfpiration, or cold, wherein
what Ihould pafs by the fkin, oozes out
upon thofe glands, and occalions irritations. The caufes are whatfoever occafions too great a quantity of fcrum ;
whatfoever hinders the difcharge by
urine, and the pores of the fkin.

Catale'psis. ii./.\y.a.Ta.7.\-\n.'\ A lighter

In the library of manufcripti belonging to St.
Laurence, of which there is a printed. ro/tf/cg-vt*, I
looked into the Virgil, which difputes its antiquity
Mdijiii.
with that of the Vatican.
The bright Taygete, and the Ihining Bears,

good i\fo for catarails. Bacm'i Nmural Hiftirj.

CATA'RRH. «./ [Kcctul'fiu,, dffliw.] A

ufe of a laced glove, fcattered th^ pituitous fwelIVijcviani Surve-y.
Ung, ani ftrcngthencd it.

the alphabet.

A

fhepherd diverted himfelf with toflfing up
^FL^, and catching them again.
Sped.itor,

:

confolidaling the parts.

Sbakefpiare"! Cor'rJafiau

To flop any thing falling J to intercept
falling.

Sa'aJine hath a yellow millc, which hath likewife much acrimony jfor it clcinferh the eyes
it

That which has the quality of

iifeafc faieth him.

and caught it again.
4.

and
up with 2 little thin ikin, fo that the
light has no admittance.
i^incy.

MJf-r.

I

again ; and over and over he comes, and up again ;

ftiut

Catagma'tick. ai!j, [xa-rayua, a fracture.]

I law him run after a fildcd butterfly, »nd,
when he taught it, he let it go again ; and after it

ther wholly, or in part, covered,

the dead bodies

that bj in ihem were left to rot in oj;en nitches.

To feize any thing by pnrfuit.

3.

Rain, day and night.
Mihm's P.-!radifi Lcfi.
Torrents and loud impetuous caiarafls.
Through roads abrupt, and rude unfa/hionM tratSls,
Run down the lofty mountain's channel'd iides.
And to the vale convey their foaming tides.
Bbckmore.

three miles from Rome, fuppofed to be
the caves and cells where the primitive
chriftians hid and aflembled thcmfclves,

Sam. xvit. 35.
;

to receive

Oihcr-i, to catch the breeze of breathing air.

Addij'M en Italy,

1.

To be co^t^g^ous

5

to -fpread infeflion,

or mifchief.
'Tis time to give them phyfick, their difenfes
Are grown it catching, Shakefpearti Henry VHI,
Sicknrfs is catchii^g\ oh, were favour lo

1

Yours wou!d I catch; fair Hcrmia, ero 1 go. Shak,
Corfi x.ing it v.ith all its malignity \n\catchiiig
it may be enumerated with ttie word of

nature,

epidciniclu.

Nn i

,

tl't- !-cr,

'U

;

;

CAT

CAT

The iislace of Deiphobui arcendk
In fmoaky flames, and caichti on his friettds. Dryi.
Does the ledition catib from man to man.

Sullen of afpe£l, by the vulgar calPd
catchpill, whofe polluted hands the gods

may be divided again into fimplc and complex.

And run .-unong the ranks ?

With force incredible and magick charms

Cateco'iiically. ativ. [from categon-

To lay hold foddenly :
catchn.

2,

A fingle propofitipn, which it alfo tattforiealf

Another roonfter^

A

jidd'tJcM^ i Cato,

as,

c A ;r

Erfl have endued, if he his ample palm

tke hook

cc,!.]

Should haply on ill-fated flioulder Uy

When the yellow hair !n flame fliouM fall.
The tatcbing Are might bum the golden cawi.

Of debtor.

Philips.

C a'tc HWOR D. «./ [from catch and ivord.

Drydtn.

With printers.] The word at the corner

Catch, n./. [from the verfe.]
1. Seizure; the aft of feizing any thing

of the page under the laf. line, which is

that flics or hides.
Taught by his open eye,
His cyei that ev'n did mark htr trodden grafs.
That Ihe would fain the catch of Strephon fly.

repeated at the top of the next page.
fomething to be eaten.
;
This is fcarcely read in the lingular.

Cate. n.f. Food

Watch; the pofKire of feizing.
them lay upon the catch

Bjf.i of

for a great

We'll fee what eaies you have.
For foldiers ftomachs always ferve them well. Shai.

Catechb'tical.

aiij.

[from x«t»i;{i«.]

Conlilting of quellions and anfwers.

ic ii

Socrates introduced ^ catacheticai mci)\oi of arguing ; he would alk his adverbry qu^Ilion upon
queltion, till he convinced him, out of his own
mouth, that his opinions were wrong.

An advantage taken ; hold laid on, as

3.

in hafte.

Addifon's Spc^jfor.

All which notions are but ignorant cftcbcs of a
few things, which are moft obTiouJ to men's ob-

The motton is bat a catch of the wit upon a
fic^'

Cateche'tically. ai/f. [itom catechetical.'] In the

Bacon*

ftrvations.

inllances ; as the manner is in the philol'ophy

I.

Bacon.
Fate of empires, and the fall of king<.
Should tuta on flying hours, and cateb of moments.
Dryden,'

Baccn.

great pleafurc.

A fong fung in fuccefiion, where one
catches it from another.
This is the tone of our rarci, play'd by the picShjJteJpeare^ t Tem^ejl.
turc of nobody.
Far be from thence the glutton parafite.
Singing hit drunken catches all the night.
Drydtn jun.
The meat was ferv'd, the bowls were crown'd,
Prior.
were
fung,
and
healths
went
round.
Catchts

[xar^x'"-]

a.

Pofitively ; plainly.

J

I dare a:1irm, and that categoricafly, ;n all part!
wherever trade is great, and continues fo, that
trade mufl be nationally prnAtahle.
Child's Difcourfe of Trade,

CA'TEGORY.»./ [xal^yof/k.j'A clafs
a rank ; an order of ideas ; a predica-

quellions, and bid them anfwer.

make

Shaisjp. Othello.

Had thole three thoufand fouls been eatcchifcd by
our modern cafuills, we bad ieen a wide difl^erence.
Decay of Piety.
2.

To queftion
mine ;

;

to interrogate ;

to

exa-

to try by interrogatories.

Why then I fuck my teeth, Anicatechife

My piked man of countries.

ment.
The abfohite

Shakefp. King John.

There flies about a ftrange report.

Of foAie exprefs arriv'd at court

infinitude, in

a

manner, quite

changes the nature of beings, and exalts them into
a different categiry.

Cheyne,

Catena'rian. adj. [from M/wa, Lat.]
Relating to a

chain ;

refembling

a

chain.
In geometry, the catenarian curve is formed by
a rmie or chain hanging freely between two points
of^ifpenfion.
Harris.

The back is bent after the manner of the catenarian curve, by which it obtains that curvature
that is fafefl for the :n^ludcd marrow.
Cheyne' s Philojopbical Principles,

CA'TENATE. i;. a.

To

1 will catcchije the world for him ; that is,

Several quires, placed one over againfl another,

;.

1/.

'To inftruft by a&ing quellions, and
correfting the anfwers.

The zGt of taking qt»ickly from another.
and taking the voice by catches anthem wife, give

way of queftion and anfwer.

To CA'TECHISE.

received.

4.

Direftly ; cxprefsly.

2.

SeeCATEs.

no wonder, therefore, that they were
often engaged on one fubje£t.
AJJifcn OK AmUtit Medals.
action }

1.

.

Sidney.

2.

tVattt's Log'uk,

[from catena,

To chain.

Lat.]

Dia.

Catena'tion. n. f. [from catena, Lat.]
Link ; regular connexion.
This catenation, or conferving union, whenever
his pleafure fhall divide, let go, or feparate, they
Ihali fall

from their exiftonce.

Bro'.un't yulg. Err,

TVCa'ter. "v. n. [from cettes.] To provide food ; to buy in viftuals.

He that doth the ravens feed.
Yea providently caters f)r the fparrow.
Be comfort to my age. '
Shakefp, As you Ftie it,-

I'm ftopp'd by all the fools 1 meet,
And catechis d in «v'ry ftreet.
Sivift.
Ca'techiser. tt. f. [ftOTCiTo catechiji.]

Ca'ter. v.f. [from the verb.] Provider;-

advantage.

One who catechifes.
Ca'techism. n.f. [from xal»i;^;i^ii.] A

printed perhaps for caterer.
The oyflers dredged in this Lyner, find a wel-

Heflor fliall have a great catch, if he knock out
your brains ; he were as good crack a fufty nut
with no kej-nel. Shakcfpcare^s Trtiilus and Crcjpda'.

form of inftruftion by means of quellions
and anfwers, concerning religion.
Ways of teaching there have been fundry always

comer acceptance, where the tafie is eater for the
Aoniach, tlian tliofe of the Tamar.

The thing caught

6.

A faatch

;

profit ;

a (hort interval of aftion.
It has been writ by catches, with many intervals.

7.

;

Locke.

A taint

a flight contagion.
WeretainaMffi of thofe preny ftories, and our,

8.

;

airakencd imagination fmiles in the recolleAIon.
GUnville's Scepjis.

Any thing that catches and holds, as a

9.

hook.
10.

A fmall fwift-failing (hip

t

often writ-

He had no catechifm but the creation, needed
no ftudy but reflc£lion, and read no book but the
South.
volume of the world.

Ca'tech:st. n.f. [x»l»!X'rw-] Onewhofe
charge is to inftruft by queftions, or to
queftion the uninftrufted concerning religion.

None of year* and knowledge was admitted,
who had not been inftrufled by the cateclijl in this

ten htci.

CA'TCHEt.. n. /.

[(rota catcb.'l
1. He thit catches.

2.

ufual in God's church J for the firft introduftion
of youth to the knowledge of God, the Jews even
Hooker.
till this day have their calechifms.

foundation, which the catechij} received from the

Hammond's Fundamenidt.

bilhop.

That in which any thing is caught.
Scallops will move fo Itrongly, as oftentimes to
kap out of the cauher wherein they are caught.

Catech'u'men. »./. [xolijj^a/xti'©-.'] One
who is yet in the firft rudiments of chrif-

Griit''! Muj'trum.

tianity ; the loweft order of Chriftians

Ca'tchflv. n. /. [from catch z.nA fly.]

A plant

;

a fpecies of campion ; which

Ca'tchpoll. n.f. [fromca/fA and/o//.]

A ferjeant

;

a bumbaiUfF.

though now

be ufcd as a word of
contempt, yet, in ancient times, it feeras to have
been uied without reproach, for fuch as we now
call ferjeants of the rnace, or any other that ufes
Catchpoll,

it

to arrell men upon any caufe.

Coviill.

Theycall all temporal bufinefli:! undcrlheriflFries,
as if they were but matters for underflierifFs and

catckpoU: j though many times thofe mdcrlheriff-

ncs do moi^guoj than (licit high fpcculatinns.
Baton's Ejfays.

Carrw's Sur-vey of Cornwall.

Ca'ter. n. f.

[qteatre,

Fr.]

The four of

cards and dice.

a corruption of
from the ridiculoufnefs of
calling coufm or relation to fo remote a

Ca'ter-cousin. n. f.
quatre-cotijin,

degree.
His mafler and he, fanog your worfhip'i reverence, are fcarce cater-cottjins,
Shakefpeare"! Merchant of Venice.

Poetry and rcafon, how come thcfe to be caterRynur's Tragedies of the lajl Age,
couftr.s T

Ca'terer. n.f,

[from, cater.]

On« em-

ployed to feleft <ind buy in provifions
for the family ; the providore or purveyor.

The prayers of the church did not begin in St.

Let no fcent ofi'enfive the chamber infeA;
Let fancy, not coll, prepare ail our difhes ;
Let the caterer mind the tafte of each gueft.
And the cwk in his drcfling comply with their

the catechuikins were dlfmifl'cd.
StWingfeet.

He made the greedy ravens to be Elias's caterers,

in the primitive church.
Aullin's time,

fee.

colletlor of provifions, or viftuals : mif-

till

Catbchume'nical. aJJ. [from catechumen,']

Belonging to the catechumens.
Dia.

CATECo'tLicAL. aJJ. \_(rom categerj.] Ahfolute ; adequate ; pofitive ; equal to the

thicg to be exprefled.

The king's commiflioncrs defircd to kntiw,
whether the parliament's commiflioners did believe
that bifliops were unlawful? They could never
obtain a categorical anfw«r.

Clarendon.

wi/hes.

Ben yonion's T.ivern Academy.

and bring him food.
King Charles.
Seldom fhall one fee in cities or courts that
vigour,
which
athletick
is fcen in p.5or houfes,
where nature is their cook, and necefTity their
South.

caiirer.

Ca'teress. n.f. [from cater.] A woman
employed to cater, or provide vidluals.
Impoftor

!

do not charge innocent nature,

As if fhe W3uld her children fhould be riotous
With her abundance : flie, good catercfs.
Milton,
Means her provifua only to the good.

Ca'terfillar.

.

CAT
and Minjhevj are iocliivid to derive from

fruits of the earth.j

A worm which, when It gets wings, is
by lea\'e3 and fruits.
The catrrfillar breedeth of dew and leaves ; fir
'
we fee infinite caterpillars breed upen trees and
fuftained

without addition, into a powder, is wont to be
ftrongly enougfi cathariieal, though the chymifts
have not proved, t!'.at eiihcr gold or mercury hath
any fait, much lefs any that is purgarive.

hedges, by which the leaves of the trees or hcdgci
Bacon.
are confumed.
Aufter is drawn with a pot pouring forth water,

which dcfccnd gralshoppers, catirfillan, and
creatures bred by moifture. Peackam an Drawing.

heretick or fe6lary,.and to fchifmatick*
4, Catholick or canonical epiftles, are feven
in number ; that of St. James, two of
St. Peter, three of St. John, and that ofSt. Jude.
They are called catholick,
becaufe they are direfted to all the faithful, and not to any particular church ;
and canonical, becaufe they contain ex»
cellent rules of faith and morality.
Calmet,

To make any offenfive or odious noife. Catha'rticalness. n./. [fTotacati>articaJ.]

!

it

The nodules with leaves in them, called catheads,
feem to conlill of a f>rt or iron flonc, nut unlike
that which is found in the rocks near Whitehaven
in Cumberland, where they call them catfcaups.

HuJihras,

is not likely, becaufe Junius obferves, that the Dutch

have kater in the fame fenfe with our
Viands
It has no Jingular.']
food ; difh of meat generally employed
to fignify nice and luxurious food.
The fair acceptance. Sir, creates
The cntettainment perfeS, not the eatei.
<ater.

;

:

Ben yon/on.

farad'tje Ltjl.

2.

I'bcn with ill-gacten wealth Ih; bought

Arkuttmt.

Ga'tfish. n./. The name of a fea-fi(h
in the Weft Indies ; fo called from its
round head and large glaring eyes, by
which they are difcovered in. hollow
Phillips.

Ca'th ARPiNGs. «. /.

Small ropes in a
little blocks from one

fide of the llirouds to the other, near the

they belong only to the main
to force the

flirouds tight, for the eafe and fafety of
the mafts, when the (hip rolls.
Harris.

Belonging to an epifcopal church.

of wcathrr.
3.

In
old.

guts continually helps on their contents,
from the pylorus to the reftum ; and

every irritation either quickens that motion in

natural order, or occafions
feme little inverfioDS in it. In both,
what but (lightly adheres to the coats
will be loofened, and they will be more
agitated, and thus rendered more fluid.
its

Sy this only it is maaifeft, how a ca-

A lionefs, with udders all drawn dry.
Lay couching head on ground, with catlike watch.

Lccie.

Shakefpeare.

low phrafe, antique ; venerable ;
This feems to be the meaniii;' '"

Ca'tlinc. n.f.
1

2.

a diocefe.

by furHarris.

feems to be ufed by Shakefpeare for
catgut ; the materials of fiddle ttrings.
It

am fure, none ; unlcfs the fidlcr Apollo get his

here is nothing in Leghorn f(r extraordinary as

K\\tyfathedral, which a

A difmcmbering knife ufed
geons.

What muficjc there will be in him after HcClor
hns knocked out his brains, 1 know not.
But, 1

Cathe'dral, n./. The head church of

Ca'tHERINE PEAR.

'

make catlings of.
Shaktj'feart.
3. The down or mofs growing about walnut trees, refembling die hair of a cat,
fi:if-ws to

man may view with plea-

fure, after he has feen St. Peter's.

Addijon on Italy.

SecPEAR,

Harris.

For ftreaks of red were mingled tliere,
Such as are on a Catberitie pear.

The fide that's next the lun.
Catha'rtical. ) /7i^.[KixSafTixo«.] PurgCath a'rtick._ j ing medicines. The Ca'th ETER, n.f. [KaStrij.]
vermicular or periftaltick motion of the

a cat,

the following lines.
Here aged trees cathedral walks compofe.
And mount the hill in venerable rows 5
There the green infants in their beds are laid. P'^pe.

'I

Chambers.

they are produced.

Ca'tlike. adj. [from cat and like.'\ Like

His conftant and regular aliii^ing at the cjthedrat fervice was never interrupted by the Iharpncl's

a lord.

An alfemblage of imperfeft flow-

hanging from trees, in manner of a
rope or cat's tail ; ferving as male bloffoms, or flowers of the trees, by which
ers

Sbatefpeare's Henry VI.

With coftly cam (he ItainM her frugal board,

and their ufe is

tany.]

Ayliffe's Parergon.

They, by th' alluring odour drawn, in hafte
Fly to the dulcet cam, and crowding fip
Their palatable bane.
Philip!.

:

Ca'tkins. n.f. [iattekeiu, Dutch. In bo-

Methought I fat in feat of majefty.
In the cathedral church of WeftminAer.

!

An univerfal medicine.

Prefervation againft that fin, is the contemplation of the laft judgment. 'This is indeed a ca~
thclicon againll all; but we find it particularly
applied by St, Paul to judging and defpifing our
Covcrttmertt of the Tongue.
brethren,

or more perfons, with a bilhop at the head of
them, that do make as it were one body politick.

Ralelgb.

(hroods ;

So'Xixo» i«fta.]

A cathedral church is that wherein there are two

Of caut by land and Tea far fetcht and fcnt.

deck

Catho'licon, n.f. [from catholick; xu-

bilhop.

With low priz'd fare ; hunger ambitious

rocks.

^

A piece of

timber with two ftiivers at one end, having a rope and a block, to which is faftened a great iron hook, to trice up the
anchor from the hawfe to the top of the
forecaftle.
Sea Dia.
Cathe'dral. adj. \{rom cathedra, Latl a
chair of authority ; an epifcopal fee.]
1. Epifcopal ;
containing the fee of a

O waAefut riot, never itell content

Alas, how fimple to thefe cam,
V^as that crude apple that diverted £ve

Doubtlefs the fuccefs of thofe your great and capromote the empire of man
over nature, and bring plentiful accefiion of glory
Clanville's Scepjis^
to your nation,
Thofe fyrtems undertake to give an account oP
the formation of the univerfe, by mechanical hypothefes of matter, moved either uncertainly, or
according to feme catholick laws.
Ray.
tholick endeavours will

pyoodnvard or: Fi^Jjils.

:

may be corrupted Ca'thead.*./, [^naOiip.]

from dilicate ; which

ihip, running in

Purging quality.
A kind of foffil.

Ca'thead. n.f.

Was no difpute between

Skinner imagines

.

faithful.

AJetiftn't Spiffator.

time.

The catcrivauLng brethren ?

is ocSea Dm.

3. Catholick is often fet in oppofition to

LuftratJons and catbarticks of the mind were
fought for, and all endeavour ufed to calm and regulate the fury of the pallions.
Decay of Piety.
The piercing caufticks ply their fpitet'ul pow'r,
Emeticks ranch, and keencd/<6tfr/i^'^i I'cour. Garth,
Plato has called mathematical demoiVlrations
the cattarticks or purgatives of the fool.

Any thing voracious and ufelefs.
Ca'terpill AR. n./. [fcorfioides, Lat.]
Miller.
The name of a plant.
To Caterwa'ul. t/. ». [from ffl/.]
1. To make a noife as- cats in rutting
2.

CATES. »•/. [of uncertain etymology

capftan, when there

Some truths are faid tS be catholick,
becaufe they are received by all the

2.

Beyle's Sccpriijl CiymiJI.

viilh

What a cateru-aulir^g do you keep here If my
lady has not called up her lleward Malvolio, and
bid hitn turn you out of doors, never truft rr.eUkakcfpcarei I'wllfth Nigit.

•-He

rafion to heave the (hip afkrn.

of the. ftimulus is great, all the appen- Catho'licism. n, /. [ from eatholick.'\
dages of the bowels, and all the vilcera
Adherence to the catholick church.
in the abdomen, will be twiched ; by CA'THOLICK. adj. [catholiqut, Fr. xa-'
which a great deal will be drained back
SoXix®-, univerfal or general.]
into the inteftines, and made a part of 1, The church of Jefus Chrift is called cawhat they difcharge.
thtlick, becaufe it extends throughout the
^incy.
(^uickfilver precipitated either with gold, or
world, and is not limited by time.

chatte felu/e, a wedfel. It feems eafily de
ducible from caies, food, and pilUr, Fr.
to rob ; the animal that eats up the

2.

them to

thartic haftens and increafes the difcharges by (tool ; but where the force

Ca'terpim-ar. 11. f. [This v/ord. Skimitr

1.

CAT

C A T

Ca'tmint. «. f. \cataria, Lat.] The
"Miller.
name of a plant.
Cato'p TRICAI., adj. [from catoptricks.'\
'

Sttckting.

A hollow

and fomewhat crooked inflrument,

Relating to catoptricks, or vifion by re-

to

thruft into the bladder, to afTiil in bring-

fleifliou,

ing away the urine, when the paflage is
flopped by a ftone or gravel.

A catoptrical or dio'ptrical heat is fuperlour to
any, vitnf;ing the hardcit lubftoncas.
Arbuthr'jt on Air. •

A

large clyfter, fudJenly ir.jeftcd, hath fsrquently forced the urine out of the bladder; but
if it hi\, a catheter mull help you.
f^iftman's Surgery.

Cato'ptricks. »./. [y'aT07r1^o», a looking
That part of opticks which treats
of vilion by reflection,
Ca'tpipe. »./. [from frt/ and /;)><•.] Th«
fame with catcal ; an iiillrument that
makes a ftpcaking noife.
glafs.]

[In a (hip.] Two little
holes aftern above the gun-room ports,

Ca'tholes. «./

to bring in a cable or hawfer through

9

I

Svnie

;

Some fcDglers can no mare fiiig i« any cham-

L'Efirangt.

Cat'i.tye

is

ti.

f.

ot'

a

A flonc.
grey, interchanged

jjlirtcting

with a ftraw colour.

,

To Ca'vate. v.

foflil.

Cats-tail. n.f.

A long round fubftance, that grows in

winter upon nut-trees, pines, (Si.
A kind of reed which bears a fpike like
the tail of a cit.
Phillips's WorlJ of Words.
Ca'tsup. n.f. A kind of Indian pickle,
imitated by pickled muftirooms.

z.

of doublful or unknown ety-

mology.

It is derived by Skinner,

ShaUffcare's Henry VI.
help of a hatchet.
He iiad good broths, caudle, and fuch like; and
I believe he did drink fomc wine. fVifmnni Surg.

Will the cold brook,
Candied with ice, caudle thy morning toaft,
Sh.tk. T;««».
To cure thy o'ernight's furfcit ?

Me-

CAVE. n.f. leave, Fr. cawa, L.-it.]

kind, and ev«ry thing
that creepeth upon the earth after his kind.
Gimjii, i. 25.
cattle a.'cer their

It is ufed in

-

Dryditi.

a hole entering ho-

Callow the very wand'rcrS of the -dark.
And make them keep their cairei. Shaki K. hear.
Bid him bring his power
Before fun-rll"i:ig, Icll h's fnn George fail
Into the blind cave of eternal n'ght.
SbaUffarf'% Richard Ul.
They did fqnare and carve, and p ilifli their
(lone and marble works, even in the very rave of

Shak'ffcart.

:

a den ;

The wrathful fkies

And God made 'he bead of the earth after his

reproach of human beings.
Brys and women arc tor the mott part rattle of
this colour.
Sltikc'peare^i As ytiu like it,
Cavalca'de. n.f [Fr. from ca-vallo, a
horfe, Ital.] A proceffion on horfcback.
Your cavalcade the fair I'pedtators v.cw,
From their high (landings, yet look up to you
From your bra\e tr^in each finjjU-s out a riy.

;

rizontally under the ground ; a habitation in the earth.

Mandi-ville ufes catch for price.'\

And longs to date a cunquell from your day.

A cavern

I.

Beads of pafture, not wild nor domeftick.
Make poor men's cuttlt break their nerks.

Through this a cave was dug with vaft expence
The work it feem'd of lome fufpicious prince.
Dryden.

A hollow

Not ufed.
; any hollow place.
The objeft of fight doth ftrike upon the pupil

z.

of the eye direftly ; whereas the cave of the ear
doth hold off the fnund a little. Bacon's Nat. HiJI.

in a cave.

Addijot-.

raifingi

Care here, haunt here, arc outlaws.

A horfeman a knight.
A gay, fprightly military man.
;

he, wiio'c chin

is

Ca'veat. n.f.
tvare.]

hjteiuichM

Thcic cuird and choice drawn cavjlicrs to France

Each party grows proud of that appellation,
which their adverl'aries it tirlt intend as a reproach r
fjrt

caverns.

No great damages are done by earthquakes, except only in thofc countries which are mountainous, and confequently ftony and cavernous underfyocdtvard's Natural Hi cry.
neath,

CjrE'SSON. n.f [Fr. Inhorfemanfhip.]

A fort of nofeband, fometimcs made of
iron, and fometimes of leather or wood ;

fomctimes flat, and fometimes hollow or
twiftcd ; which is put upon the nofe of
a horfe, to forward the fuppling and
breaking of him.

An iron cavijfin faves and fpares the mouths of
for, by the
they are accuftomed to obey the hand,
and to bend .the neck and (boulders, without hurting their mouths, or fpoiling their bars with the

help 01

it,

Farrier's DiSI,

bit.

Sioift,

Cavali'er. adj. [from the fubftantive.]

Gay; fprightly; warlike.

2.

Generous; brave.
to hurt, where they can receive none.

it

The eggs of a rturgeon, being falted and made
up into a niafs, were fiift brought from Cunllaatinople by the Italians, and called caviare.

Gmv

i

Muftrurit

A corruption of ca'viare.

Cavi'er. n.f
See Catsup.

To CA'VIL.

"v.

n.

Fr. cavil-

[ca-viller,

To raife captious and frivo-

lari, Lat.]

lous objedions.
I'll

give thrice fo much land'

To any well-defcrving friend;
But, in the way of bargain, mark ye me,
I'll cavil on the ninth psrt of a hair.
Shaiffpeare's Henry IV,
My lord, you do not well, in obftinacy
To cavil in th; courfe of this contraft.
Stakejpeare's Henry VI.

He cavils firft at the poet's inlifting fo much
upon the effedis of Achiiles's rag ;.

To Ca'vi L. v. a.

To receive or treat with

objeftions.

Thou didft accept them

:

wilt thou enjoy the

good,

Then cavil the conditions ?

Paradife L'J},

Ca'vil. n.f. [from the verb.]

Falfe or

frivolous objeftions.
Wifer men confider how fubjeft the he(i things
have been unto cavil, when w its, poficffcd with dif-

Several divines, in order to anfwcr the cavils of
thofe advcrfarics to truth and molality, began to
find out farther explanations.
S-.v'if!.

A hollow

place in the ground.
Where wiU th ni find a cavern dark enough
To malk thy monrtrous vifage ? Shak. Juliui Ceef.

M mfters of the foamiiig deep.

From the deep ooze and gelid cavern rous'd.
They flounce and tremble in unwieldy joj.
Tbomfin.

3. Dildainful ;

Ca'vernbd. adj. [from cavern.]
I.

[the etymology uncer-

come from garum, Lat.
fauce, or pickle, made of filh faked.]
tain, unlefs

trumhiill to Pcpt.

Ca'vern. ».y; [ca-vernathm..]

Suckling.

haughty.
Cavai.i'krly. adv. [ from cavalier. ]
Haughtily ; arrogantly i dii'dainfully.

which fee]

Cavia're. n.f

dain, have fet them up as their mark to (hoot at.
Hooker,

;

The people are naturally not valiant, and not
much catjaiur. Now it is the nature of cowards

Phillips's ff^or/doffTords.

Caught, particip. poff. [from To catch;

am in danger of commencing pnct, pcrhap'.
pray defire Mr. Rowe to enter a ca-jeat.
laureat
I

wre the Guclfs and Grbclines, Hu-

1.

him ie-

fuch or fuch an affair.
'^y^'ff'The chiefeft caveat in reformation mull be to
Sfencer en Inland.
keep out the Scots.

The appellation of the patty of king
Charles the Firft.

guenots, and Cavalitri.

let

Intimation of caution.

or ccclelialVical judaic by the a<£t of man, notifying
to him, that he ought to beware how he aifts in

?

Shaiefytiire'i Hcnrv VIV..

of this

[ccifcal, Lat.

Sb.tiffpeare.

A caveat is an intim:it:on given to fomc ordinary

With one appear'ng hair, that will not follow

3.

Ca'vernous. «<ir. [from<-fli'«».] Full of

Pcpe's Nslei en the Hied.

Such as we

CAVALi'ER. n.f [ca-valier, Fr.]
i^

No bandit fierce, no tyrant mad with pride,
No cjKfrnV htrmit, teftT. fdf-fati.fy'd.
Pefe.

ff^itten.

the quarry.

How muft the heart of the oFd m.in rejoice, ToCAve.-v.n. [from the noun.] To dwell
vhen he fjw fuch a numerous cavalcade of Sis own

fcor \vh.»

Inhabiting a cavern.

young horfes when they are broken ;

Ye fliall have a hempen caudle then, and the

nage, and Spelman, from capitalia, qutt
ad caput pertinent ; perfonal goods : in
which fenfe chattels is yet ufed in our

1.

Pope'i Oivffty,

2.

;

ofe, but

2.

and involves the hopes of war

ToCa'udle. 'v.a. [from the noun.] To Cauf. n.f A cheft with holes in the top,
[A word of very common
to keep iilh alive in the water.
make caudle to mix as caudle.

Ca'ttle. ft.f.

2.

*To

perfons;

And, /or our home-bred Britiih cheer,
Botargo, catjuf, ard cavior.
Swft.

kind, ami

Lat.]

digging of thr earth for cellarage ; allowed to be the fixth part of the height
Phillips.
of the whole building.
Ca'udbbecx. n.f. A fort of light hats,
fo called from a town in France where
Phillips.
they were firft made.
CA'UDLE. n.f. [chaudeau, Fr.] A mixture of wine and other ingredients,
given to women in childbed, and fick

M^xdiuarJ en Fejjils.

law.

[catjo,

f

^tjilvcr \\ compofrd ofplales that are generally
plain and parallel, and tl'.at ate Rrxible and elaltiClc; and is nt thr:i: I'orts, the yellow ur golden,
the white or fiivery, and th« black.

1 .

a.

hollow out ; to dig into a hollow.
[from ca-vo, Lat. In
Cava'zion. n.
architeflure.] The hollowing or under-

M^riimcr's Hujhaiidry.

I.

Philij,!.
In fiSry whirles.
High a! Ills head from out the cevcrn'J rock.
In living rills, a gufliing fountain broke.

not fuftain triefiiock. of tiic Britifli hoife.
Addifin en the {far.

Cut'i-heaJ, by f me called the gn-no-t'urther,
i< a veiy lar^e apfte, and a good bearer.

A kind of

llurilb fatal,

If a ftjtc run inoft to gentlemen, and the hufbandmen and plowmen be but as tfccir woikfolks,
you may have a good cavalry, but never good (la

Bticm't Ilevry VH.
Then cavalry, in the battle of Hienheim, could

; the fame with
ahhcof, or grcunJ-ivy ; which fee.
Cat's-head. n.f. A kind of apple.

ruf.

horfes for war.

blc bands of foot.

WiXhtViirti on Fojfui.

Ca i's-fo6t. n.f. An herb

Ca'tstiver.

The fmiling furfacj; viWilH tht eavern'd ^icvni

;

•ny book bdt their own j fxit them out of tl^xir
coad once, and they are mere afifa and dunces.
.

Embattled troops, with flowing banners, paA
Through flow'ry mcadr, delighted ; nor diftruft

Ca'valrv. n.f. [cavalcrie, Fr.] Ilorfe
troops
bodies of men furniftied wi,th

ber but their own, than lum< cierlcs can read in

Cat's-eye.

C A V

C A V

C A V

Full of cavcrni ; hollow; excavated.

Cavill a'tion. n.f. [from f<j'i.'//.] The
difpofition to make captious objertion ;
the praiilice of objecting.
I might add fo mucit concerning the large odds
between the cafe of the eldeft churches in regard
of heathens, and ours in rcfpctj of the churcli of

Rome,
titficd.

that

very taviilatita itfelf (hould he

I'a-

HuUr.

Ca'villf K.

;

-

.

!;

C A U

C A U

C A U
A

Towards the end y>{ the month, earth up your

man fond of making objeftions ; an un-

w-jn:cr plants and fallad herbs ; and plant forth
your cautijiirwcrs and cabbage, which wer'c fown in
Auguft.
Evelyns 'Kalcr.dar.

Ca'vili.er.

n, f.

Lat. ]

l^ca-viUator,

fair adverfary ; a captious difputant.
The candour wiiich Horace ihews, is that which
diftinguiihei a critick from a ca-vHhr\ he decliies,
tliat he is not offended '^ little faults, which inay
be Imputed to inadvertency.
AJdipns Guardian.

There is, I grant, room ftiU left for a ca-uilUr to
"

mifreprefent my meaning.
After bury* t Preface to bis Sermons.

Ca'villingly. at^if. [from cai/illing.']
In a cavilling manner.
CA'vir.Lous. adj. [from ca'vil.'\ Unfair
in argument; full of objeftions.
Thofc perlbns arc faid tq be cavillws and unfaithful advocates, by whofc fraud and iniquity
juftice Is dcftroyed.

To Caulk.
See Ta Calk.
To Ca'uponate. 'V. n. \caupono, Lat.]
To keep a vidualling-houfe ; to fell
wine or vidtuals.
Dili.
Ca'usable. adj. [from fa»/o, low Lat.]
That which may be caufed, or efFefted
by a caufe.

ing to caufes ; implyipg or containing
caufes.
Every motion owing

In the military
fit to cover a
body of troops, and confequently facilitate their approach to a place.
Did.

a

dependence on prere-

we ^an have no true knowledge of

quired motors,

any, except we would dillindlly -pry into the wiiolc
method of cauj'ai concatenation.
Glanville^s Scepjts Scienti/ica.

Ca'vity. n.f. [cavi/as, Latin.] Hollow-

Bifold authority.

every man and his brother, '^
and the ftranger that is with him.
Deutirommy,
righteoufly between

4. Side ; party ;

Ere to thy ca:ifc, and thee, my heart inclin'd.

Or loWB.toparty had feduc'd my mind.
Tickelt,
To CaiW^. v. a. [from the noun.] To
efFeft a^an agent; to produce.
Never was man whnfe appiehenJions are {bber,
and by a penlivc infpedVion adviled, but hath f )und
by an irniJiftiblc necel^u\^one eveilatling being, all
for ever cuiifmg, and all. for everfullaining.

cauling.

fome fiift, which iTiould be
the original of motion, and the caufe of ail other
things; but itfelf be caufd by none.
South.
She weeping alk'd, in thefe her blooming years.

As he created all things, fo is he beyond and In
them all, in his very clTence, as being the foul of

What unforeieen misfortune caused her care,
To loath h«r life, and languilh in defpair I

their caufalifies,

"

Ca'ukv.

aiij.

fVocJnvard.

A white,

[from caui.]

and the

effential caufe of their
Brtnun'i Vulgar Err'jurs.
tranfiliency from the effort to
the reniotcll caufe, we obfervc not the conncftion,
through the intcrpofal of more Immediate cavja-

By an unadvif'-d

Hippocrates afBrmeth.

Then when they had defpoil'd her lire and caul.

A caufer

Such as (he was, their eyes might her tehoid.

Demonftrativcly underdanding the fimplicity of
perfcfljon, and the Invifible condition of the firft
caufator, it was out of the power of earth, or the
arcopa^ of hell, to work them from it.
BroTun's Vulgar Errours.

Spenftr,

Her head with ringlets of .her hair Is crown'd.

And in a^golden caul the curls arc bound.
Drydtn'i ^neid.

;

CAUSE. »./. [cau/a, Lat.]

An Indian mantle of fe.«h«r», and the feathers

1.

wrought into a caul of packthread.
Grno's Mufttum.
the integument in
3. The omentum ;
which the guts are inclofed.
The caul fervcs for the warming the lower b?lly,
like an apron or piece nf woollen cloth.
Hence a
certain gladiatour, whofc caul Galen cut out, was

thens themfilves, have all acknowledged fome firii
caufe, whereupon originally the being of all tilings

depcndeth ; neither have they otheiwile fpoktii
of that fou/f, than ai an agent, which, knowing
what and why it workeih, obfcrveth, in working,
a mod exaft order or law.

On thtfc, ia double cauls invulv'd with art.
The cholccfl morfcis lay.

Pipe's OJyffcy.

C\vi.i'rt%ovs. adj. [Uom cauUs, a (lalk,
and fero., to bear, Lat.] A term in botany for fuch plants as have a trueftalk,
which a great many have not.

Ca'ulifloweic. n. /. [from caulis, Lat.
the llalk of a plant.]
huge.

A fpccics of cab

llojktr.

and ether flies, revive eafily when
they fccm dead, being brought to the fun or fire;
tlie caufe whereof is the diftufion of the vitjl fpirit,
and the dilating of it by a little heat.
Bacon s Natural Uifiory.
Caife is a fubrtance exerting its power into ait,
to make one thing bejtn to be.
Locke.
Butterflies,

The beaft they then divide, and difunitc
The ribs and limbs, obfeivantof the rite :

2.

The reafon

;

for he

that docs

it

and undervalues
Taylor's Hdy Liiirg,

;

And make his caufelefs pow'r, the caufe
things,

known.

Ci( ail

B lac ktnore'* Creation.

Wanting juft ground or motive.

2.

Vet is my truth ypliglit.

And love avow'd to other lady late,
Thar, to remove the fame, 1 have no might
To change love cauftlifs^ is reproach to warlike
knight.

Sfenfcr's Fairy ^iieit.

.

And me and mine threats not with war but death;
Thus caufelefs hatred endlefs is uncath.

Fairfax.

Th« caufelcjs diOike, which oth?is hive conceivno luthcicnt reafon for us to forbear in any
r'j'-'fUooLr.
ed,

is

Ai women yet who apprehend
Some fuddcn caufe of cauje.eft fear.
Although that Iccming cauie take end,

The wife and learned, amongft the very hea-

Ray,

without reafon ;

.

That which produces or effeiU any
thing ; the efficient.

kept his belly

Locke.

caiifelejt.'\

Reach th' Almighty's facred throne.

an author of any effedl.

Any kind of fmall net.

~

ail

authority.

its

and meteors, befides their allowable
anions, afcrjbiog effcSi thereunto of indejcndcnt

That exprefles a caufe or reafon.
Causa'tor. n.j'. [from caufo, low Lat.]

[from

Ga'useless. adj. [from cau/e.'j
1. Having no caufe
original in itfelf.

ce!ts of ftars

hair ; the hinder part of a woman's cap.
Ne fpared tiiey to ftrip her naked all

h«

nor at

Thus doth he fomclimes delude us in the con-

caufjticn.
Brctvn's Vulgar Errours.
Caul. n.f. [of uncertain etymology.]
Ca'usative. adj. [a term in grammar.]
1. The net in which women inclofe their

ad'v.

caufclejly, is a dcfpifer of the law,

Br'^ton's Vulgar Errcurs,

Causa'tion. It./, [from cait/o, low Lit.]
The A&. or power of cauilng.

mind, ar.; not perceived to move.

Without caufe ; without reafon.
Human U.vs are not to be broken with fcandal,

ing to the order or feries of caufes.
Thus may it be more caufally made our, what

l^'oodivarJ on FoJJils.

that
tonftantly covered with wool.

in the

Ca'uselesly.

Ca'usally. ad'v. [from fa/(/a/. ] Accord-

opaque, cauiy fpar, (hot or pointed.

lb liable to fuffer cold,

fenfes diflinftly, and fo coufe n^t any train of ideas

Clanville's Sceffa.

lilies.

in

Drydens Fables.
Things that move fo fwifr as not to aB'cCl the

exiftenccs.

Bertlcy.

Cauk. n./. A coarfe talky fpar.

Raleigh^

,

It is necelTary in fuch a chain of caufes to afcend

to and terminate

:

An Inftrumcnt with a fmill cavity, like a fmall
fpoon, dipt in oil, may fetch out the (lone.

ground or principle of

aftion or oppofition.

Causa'litv. n./. [cau/ali/as, low Lzt.]
The agency of a caufe ; the quality of

Materials packed together with wonderful art in
the fevcral cavities of the (kull.
AddiJ'm's Sficl.

^haicffeare.

Hear the caufes bet\veen your brethren, and juHge

Tfiiiti': LogiiJt.

Drydeni Dedication to yEr.e''d.

2.

O madnefs of dircuuffe,

that they might be deftroyed ; Rehobpam
was unhappy, becaufe h« followed evil counfel.

even the cavities ought not to be filled with
rubbifh, which is of a peri/hing kind.

A'iuthnrjt on Diet.
If the ;<mofphere wjs reduced into water, it
would not make an orb above thiity-twofeet det-p,
which would foon be fwalluwed up by the cavity
of the fea, and the deprefled parts of <hc earth.

Reafon of debate ; fubjeft of litigation.
That caufe fets up with and a^jainft thyfelf

built,

faid cavity being di fterently ibaped by the poftures

ing

Ro^<ve,

3.

Caujal propofitions are, where two propofitions
are joined by cd^^/ particles ; as, houTcrs were not

nefs ; hollow ; hollow place.
The vowels are made by a free paflage of breath,
vocalized through the cavity o{ the mouth; the

HMer's Elements if Speech.

Lamenting that there had teen cat/iof enm'ty,
Will often wiili fate had ordain'd you friends.

Brcnuns Vulvar Errours.

A natural hollow,

There ij nothing to be left void in a firm build-

Drydtn,

Even he.

naturally fiiB/ii/j in anotlier.

Ca'usal. adj. [cau/a/is, low Lat.] Relat-

A\!iffe.

of the throat, tongue, and lips.

.Apneas W' f'i'ring ftood ; then a/lc'd the ctiufcy

Which to the iheam the crowding people draws.

That may be miraculoufly effcfted in one, which
is

CJ'VIN. nlf. [French.
art.]

Thus, myal Sir! to fee you landed here.
Was caufe enough of triumph fct a year. Drydert,

motive to any thing.

The red fliall bear fume other fight.
As cauft will be obey'J.
Siaiiffitar.:
So great, fo eonftant, and fo general a praftxe,
murt needs h.^ve not only a caufe, but alfo a great,
a coaftant, and a general <aujt, every yl»y commcnfuratc to fuch an elicit. '
Souil,

A fl.akin^ through tkcir limbs ihcy fnid.
Ala-

!

Ji^alJer.

my fears arc^, irfeiefs and ungrounded,

Fao'.alljck dreamt, and melancholy fumrs.

Deri:.

[from crtw/^.] He that
caufes ; the agent by which an eflcft is
produced.

Ca'uslr.

«. /.

His whole oration {lo"'d upon a fliort na-mtion,
what was the caufer of this ree tamorph'ilis. Sidney.
Is not the caufer ui thcfe tlinclcfs deaths

As blimeful as the exeiutioiicr ?

Slaktfpeare.
determines, is of no
other rial value in iciig.on, than a^ a niinillcrial
e luftr of moral e(IWt».
Rogeii.
Ab'lii.tnce, the apof^le

Ca'usey.
In- /• [ciiaiijee, Fr. Thiii
Ca'l'seway. 3 w.'id, by a falfe notion of
etymology,

been lately written
a
;
w.'iy raifedabove the reft of the ground.
its

cau/en-ny.']

ha.s

A way raifed and paved

To Shuppin) the let came forth wellward by thtr
caviy,

J

Cl.ran.xx''. i6.

The

.

C A U
The otlier way SaUn w««t ivm.
The taujnvay to helUgatc.
JUUion.
But thit bruid caxjnvay will ^''rc£l your way,

perfons CMtcrisud,

the tears trickle

Whofe caujiv>ay partf the vale with Ihady rows
Whofe feats the weary traveller repofe.
Pofe.
Ca'ostical. I «<^'. [xai/rixo?.] Epithets

rooks and crows upon the topi ittm to be tatviif
jtdjijen.
in another region.
The r Mk, who high amid the boughs.

down

ever

CA'UTERY. n.f. \yjx'^, uro.)
Cautery is either adual or potential; the firft is
burning by a hot iron, and the latter with caufiick

medicines.

Ca'u STICK.

5 of medicaments which
deftroy the texture of the part to which

In early fpringj-hij airy city builds.
Ibomjor's Spring.
And ceafelefs caxut.

Sharp' t Surgtry,

afVer.

Drjdirt.

C E D

The defign of the cautery is to prewnt the canal
from doting ; but the operators confefs, that, in

And you may rcich the town by noon of day.

they are applied, and

CAW

'

To CEASE, ai.ti.
1.

The a6ti|>l eauiery is gonerally ulVd

2.

to into a

3.

it

burnt flelh ;
which, in a little time, with detergent
dreiTing, falls quite off, andAavcs a
vacuity in the part.
^'"^Jlike

evil.

2.

pri'pofcd eradicating by efcaroticks, and began

part of Baccharia for cauihx for his difburfcments.

1

'

with a ciiufiUk ftone.
Wtjtman's Surgery.
Air too hot, cold, and moilt, abounding perhaps with cauflick, allringcnt, and coagulating par-

ficient caution that the war fliould be profecutcd.

Arbathmt.

Clarer.cicn.

A burning application.

He that objefis any crime, ought to give cauti-.n,

ticles.

Ca'ustick. H.f.

Hcm,l.

The parliament would yet give his majefty fuf-

It was atendernefs to mankind, that introduced

corroAves and caufiUh, which are indeed but arti6cial fires.
Tcmflt.
The piercing ciiuftUktf\y their fpiteful pow'r,
Eir.tiicks ranch, and keen catharticks fcour.
Cartb.

.CA'UTEL. n.f. [cautela. Lat.] Caution;

by the means of furetics, that he will perfevcre in
the prolecution of fuch crimes, jiylifft't Partrg^r..
3. Provifion or fecurity againil.
In defplle of all the rules and c^afiMj of government, the moll dangerous and mortal of vices will

come off.
4. ProvJfionary precept.
Attention to

fcruplq : a word difyfed.
Perhaps he loves you now;
And now no foil of c»uttl dothbcfmirch
The virtue of his will.
Shaktjfeart.

tlie

L*£Jlrange.

forcmcntioned fymptoms af-

fords the belt caulitms and rules of diet, by way of

Arhutbnot.

preventiois,

5. Warning.
ToCa'ution. t. a. [from the noun.]
Ca'utei.ous. aJj. [cauteJeux, Fr.]
To warn ; to give notice of a danger.
,j. Cautious; wary; provident. Notinufe.
How ihall our thought avoid the various fnare?
Palkidio doth wiOi, like a cautihut artifan, that

the inward walls mightbear fomc good Ihare in the
burden.
Ifiiton.
,

Wily ; cunning ; treacherous.

.>>.

Deuteroremy..
rations of life, fenfe, and intelledion, ceafe from
tl»t nolei corptrtt, and are no longer in it.

Balit Origin of Mankind'

To be at an end.

When bent to hurt, and certain to delhoy ?

4.

Diydcitt

To reft.
The roinifters of Chrift hare ctafed from their
Spratt.

labours.

7b Cease, v. a.

To put a flop to; to

put an end to.
Importune him for monies be not ccas'i
With flight denial.
Sbaktfpttrt.
You may fuoncr, by imagination, quicken or
:

flack a motion, than raife or ceajc it ; as it is eaficr
to make a dog go ilower, than to make him ftand

Bacon's Natural Hiflory,

ftill.

Ciafe then this impious rage.
But he, her fears to ceafe.
Sent down the mecV-cyed peace.

Alilton,

Milton,

The difcord is complete, nor can they ccaje
The dire debate, nor yet command the peace. Dryd.
Cease, k./. [from-tbe verb.] Extindion ;
perhaps for ducafe.
failure
The ceate of majcily
:

Dies not alone, but, like a gulph, withdraws

What's near it with it.

Sbaktjpeari,

CtASiLtss. adj. [from cea/e.] Inceuant;
perpetual; continual; without paufe ;
without Hop ; without end.

My guilticis bloo;t muft qutnch the ceafcicj's fire.

Prinr,

On which my cndlcls tears were bootlcls Ipcnt.

•

Of thcmfclves, for the mod part, they are fo
cauteious and wily headed, efpecially being men of

fo fmall experience and
-

Or wiTdom to our eaution'd foul declare
The dlffrent fliapes thou picafell to employ,

Dryicr,

to be cxtinfl ; to pafs awfcy.

But now the wonder ceafesy fince I fee
She kept them only, Tityrus, for thee.

li extirpation be fate, the
will be by
t^L-HUal mtdicines, orefcar^tlcks. Wijenun's Surg.

^^

;

The foul being removed, the faculties and ope-

Security for.
Such canditions, and cauiiom of the condition,
as might ail'ure with aj much aiTurance as worldl)
matters bear.
Sidmy.
The Cedar, upon this new acqueft, gave him

hmwfj

To fail

The poor man ftiall never ceaje oat of the land.

;

fubllance

to

Th»lives of all, who cenje/rom combat, fpare

My brother's be your nwft peculiar care.

away, or
burn it into an efchar, which they do
by extreme minutenefs, afperity, and
quantity of motion, that, like thofe of CA'UTION.»./. [caution, Fr. cautio, Lat.]
fire itfelf, deftroy the texture of the foPrudence, as it refpefts danger ; fore1
lids, and cliange what they are applied
fight
provident care ; warinefsagainll
e:.t

;

withyVow before a noun.

defift :

to ftcp mortification, by burning the dead parts to

the quick; or to flop the cflufion of blood, by
fearing up the vcflels.
^erngf.
In heat of fight it will be necefTary to have your
aAual cauttry always ready ; for that will fecure
the bleeding arteries in a moment, ffifeiran'i Surg,

[cefer, Fr. ceji. Lat.

To leave off; to ftop; to give over

practice in law matters,
that you would wonder whence they borrow fuch
fubtilties and fly (hifts.

Sfetiftr on Irthnd.

Your fon
Will or exceed the common, or be caught
With cauttLiui baits and pradlicc.
Shahffeart.
Ca'utelpuslv. ad'v. [from caute/ous.]
I.

Cunningly;
in ufe.

flily ;

treacheroufly.

But never gave me equal arms.

Ca'u t I o n a r y

under pretence of a retirement, and the
other party doth caut^hujly get the ftart and advantage ; yet they will fet back all things in Jiatu
afleep,

Bai^n^s War witb Spain,

a. Cautiou/Iy ; warily.

The Jews, not refolved of the fciatica fide of
Jacobi do caurelnjly, in their diet, abftain' from

Brmvn.

both.

t'CAUTFRizA'TlON. »./. [froox Cauterize.]

The aft of burning flslh with hot irons,
or caulUc medicaments.
Tb«y require, after caulerixatitui, no fuch bandage, as that thereby you need to fear interception
of the fpirits.
fVijman.

Ta Ca'uterize. -v. a. [cauttri/er, Fr.] To
burn with the cautery.
For each true word a blifler, and each falfe

Be eavtrrixaig to the root o* th' tongue,
Cnnfumin^it wijh fpeaking..,
Shahrfftarc.
No m.uvcl though cantharides have fuch a corrofive and cautcrtxing<^ui\\x^ \ for there is not one
ether of the infeUa, but is brad of a d-Jler matter.

Bacm't Ntlurai llifliy.

adj. [from citutien.'] Given

^

I am maue the cautionary pledge.
The gage and hoftage of your keeping it. Souiherne.

Is there

no

to give us for fccuring trade ?

adj.

watchful.
Bo cautious of him ;
;

Sivlft.

[from eauttu,

Lat.]

\

for he is fometimes an in-

Siviff.

Ca'utiously. ad<v. [from cautious.]

In

an attentive, wary manner ; warily.
They know how fickle common lovers are

:

Their oaths and vows arc cauiitiujly bcliev'd
For few there are but have been once deceiv'd.
Dryden.

Ca'utiousness. n.f. [from cautieui.]
.Watchfulnefs ; vigilance ; clrcurafpection ; provident care ; prudence with
refpeft to danger.
1 could not but approve their generous con^'ng CbarUi.
ilancy and cautKuJnrji.
Qiould always aft with jreat ruiiri'/v/nr/i an.i
circumfpedlion, in points where it is uot impollible
that we may be deceived.
jiddi'sn.

We

n.

Pbilipi.

Ce'citv. h./, [aecitaSfLit.] Blindnefs ;
privation of fight.

They are not blind, nor yet diftinftly fee; there
them no cecityy yet more than a cecuticncy ;
they have fight enough todifcernthe light, though
not perhaps to diftinguifli cbjefls or coloui-s.
Brotvns Vulgar Errours,

is

conllant {over, becaufe be hath a great advantage.

To Caw. v.

Fairfax,
All thefe with ciafrhfs praife his works beho'.d.
Milton,
Both day and night.
Like an oak
That ftands fecure, though all the winds employ
Their ccajtlrfs roar ; ard only (beds its leaves.
Or mall, which the revolving fpring reltores.

fecurity for the ifland of Brita'.j ^

Has the enemy no cautionary tnwns and fea-ports

Wary

/

.

Swift.

as i pledge, or in fecurity.

Not Ca'utious.

All pretorian courts, if any of tjie parties be laid

j!>o prius,

You cauiion'd me againli their charms.

[taken from the found.]

To cry as the rook, taven, or crow.
RuHet-pated choughs, many in fort, *
Riling and ca^uing at the gun's report.
Sbaktfp,
A waUc of aged elms, fo very highj that the

in

Cecu'tiency. n.f. [cdtculie, Lat.] Tendency to blindnefs ; cloudinefs of fight.
There is in them no cecity, yet more than ^
cccuticttcy.

Broivn's Vulgar Errours,

CE'DAR. n.f. [cedrus, Lat.] A tree.
It is evergreen; the leaves are much narrower
than thofe of the pine tn*, and many of them produced out of one tubercle, refembling a painter's
pencil ; it hath male fimvers, or katkins, produced
at remote liirtanccs from the fiuiton the fame cee.
The fec.ls arc produced in large cones, fquam^'fc
The extenfion of the branches is
and turbinatedvery regular in crdar trees; the ends of the ihoots
declining, and thereby flicwing their upper furface,
which is conftantly cloathed with green leaves, fo
regularly, as to appear at a difla ^ce like a green
carpet, and, in waving about, make an agreeable
profpcft. It is furpriling that this tree has not been
more cultivated in England ; for it would be a great
ornament to barren bleak mountains, evn in Scotland, where few other trees wouje gi«wj it being a
native of Mount Libanus, 'where the fnow con-

tinues

C E L

C E L

of die year. M«uni3rel, in his
Travels, fays, he meafured ooe of the largeft cedan

iiflutj moft part

en Mount Libanus, and found it to be twelve yards

No more (hall be added in this pll ce, his memory deferving a particular celtbration , than thift

At about

his learning, piety, and virtue, have Uec.n attained

fix inches in circumference, and found.

Ave or Ax yards from the ground, it was divided
Into iive limbs, each of which was equal to a great
tree.
The wood .f this famous tree is accounted
proof againll the putrefaAion of animal bodies.
The faw-duft is thought to be one of the fecrets
ufed by the mountebanks, who pretend to have
the embalming myftery. This wood is aifo faid
to yield an oil, which is famous for preferving
books and writings ; and the wood is thought by
Bacon to continue above a thoufand years found.
MllUr.
I mull yield my body to the earth :

Thus yields the ctdar to the axe's edge,
Whofe arms gave flielter to the princely eagle;

And kept low ihruba from winter's pow'rful wind.
SbahEfpeare*

Of or

belonging to the cedar tree.

To CEIL. V. a. \_cieio, Lat.] To overlay,
or cover, the inner roof of a building.

And the greater houfe he ctiitd with fir-tree,
which he over-laid with fine gold.
i Ctronieks.
How will he, from his houfe ttiltd with cedar,
be content with his Saviour's
where to lay his head ?

lot,

By teaching them how to

carry themlclves in

their relations of hulbands and wives, parents and

children, they have, without queftion, adorned the

God, and benefited man, mucii
more than they could have done iij the de\outeft
gofpel, glorified

nificence.

then multipLication is hindeied.

I.

Bdcrjn.

A fmall cavity or hollow place.
The brain contains ten thoufand ceiU ;
In each fome a^ive fancy dwells.

it is alfo called turnep rooted celery.

Cble'rity. n.f. [ctleritas, Lat.]

Craun:.

CELL, n.f [cella, Lat.]

Cele'riacic. n.f. A fpecies of parfley ;
Swift-

Their fep'rate celh and properties maintaia. Pope.
The cave or little habitation of a reli-

z.

gious perfon.

wonderful cr/rn>y of difcourfc : for, perceiving at
the fitll but only fome caul'e of fufpicion, and

one and the felf-fame breath, refolved, that what
beginning fuever it had, there is no poflibility it
fliould be good,
Hockei:
His former cullom and pradlice was ever full of
fotwardnefs and celerity to make bead againlt them.
£ac6n.
Thus, with imagin'd w!ng5, ourfwiftfcene flies,
In motion with no loTs celeriiy
Than that of thought.
Sbakejfcare.
Three things concur to make a prrcuffion great
the bignefs, the denfity, and the celerity of the body
moved.
Dighy.
Whatever encreafeth the denfity of the blood,
even without cncreafing its celerity, heats, becaufe

:

Drydcn.

\chelidoneum, Lat.]

A plant.
The fwallows ufe alstid'au, the linneteuphragia.
M^re.

[ca/atura, Lu.}

The

a denfer body is hotter than a rarer.

art of engraving, or cutting in figures,

re CE'LEBRATE. t. a. [celeiro. Lit.]
To praife to commend ; to give praiie Ce'lery. ». /.
1
which fee.
to
to make famous.
;

BefideSv (he did intend confcflion

At Patrick's all this ev'n ; and there Ihe was not.

^rbutbrtot en Alimenti.

A fpecies of parfley;

Ukakejpcaret

Then did religion in a lazy celt.
In empty, airy contemplations dwell.

4.

Any fmall place of refidence ; a cottage.

Mine eyes he clos'd, but open left the cell

Of fancy, my internal fight.

Miltm's Par. Lifi,
For ever in this humble cell
Let thee and 1 together dwell.
Prior*
In cottages and lowly celh

True piety neglefted dwells j

I

Till call'd to hcav'n, its native feat,

Whcie the good man aloi.c is great. Sovrcrv*
5. Little bags or bladders, where fluids,
or matter of different forts, are lodged j
common both to animals and plants.
S^uincy.

CELE'STIAL. adj.
I.

jiddi.on.

I would have him read over the ctfeirand wnrki

«f antiquity, which have ftood the teft of fo many
different ages.

Mdifin.

To diftinguifh by folemn rites; toperform iblemnly.
He flew all them that were gone to cekbraie the

3.

Cibbatb.

To mention in a fet or folemn manner,
whether of yay or forrow.

3.

This paufe i>f pow'r 'tis Ircland'shour to mourn
While England ciltirjtri your fife return. Orydtn.
Celebra'tion. n.f. \ixOXR celebrate.
'\

Solemn performance; folemn remem-

].

brance.

He laboured to drive forrow from her, and to
haften the cilttraii'jr. of tl)fir marri.igc,

Sidney.

He (hall conccjl it.
While you arc willing it (hjtl come to note
;
What time we will our celtlralim keep.
According to my birih.
tthakrfftart.
During the uUhraiim o( this holy facrament, you
jitund caineiliy to what it done by the prieft.

Vol. I.

layhr.
^

Ce'llar.

Heavenly; relating to
regions.
1 here flay, until the twelve ceUJIial figns
Have brought about their annual reckoning. Shak.
£r'.*wn i Vulgar Errours.

t. Heavenly ;

iMaccatcei.

divine fcxdcc, into a large room, where tiie fcaft
is cihhrtttd.
Bacon.

Lat.]
the fuperiour

[cclej}is,

relating lo the blcffed (late.

/

[c'Ha, Lat.]

under ground, where

A place

ftores and liquors

If tlii? fellow had lived in the time of Cato,
he would, for his punifiiment, have been confined
to the bottom of a (ellar during his life,

PeaJiam 5» Drawing.

Cb'i.LaraCE. n.f.

[from cellar.] The
part of the building which makes tn»

Play that f.id note

nam'd my knell, whiG!l I fit meditating
On th:>t crljlial harmony I go to.
ibahffeare,

cellars.

Heavenly, with refpeft to excellence.

Sbahip^'irU
good afcent makes a houfe wholefome, auJ
gives opportunity for cellamge,
Mortimer's Ht^^andry,

I

3.

».

are repofitcd.

The ancients commonly applied ccltjlial t^cfcxi^tions of other climes to their own.

On thefeaft.dar, the father comcth forth, af^er

Dcnhnm..

A fmall and elofc apartment in a prifon.

3.

;

T!ie fongs of Sion were pfalms and pieces of
yoetry, that adored or C4fiiraied the Supreme Being.

Priar^

How bees for ever, thougli a monarch reign,

nefs ; fpeed ; velocity.
We very well fee in them, who thus plead, a

Now on the walls, now on the pavement play,

.

can attribute their numbers to nothing butfor they XouV on celibacy
ae an accurfed ft^ite, and generally are married before twenty.
Sfeffutcr.
I

their frequent marriages;

fcar left it fhould be evil, they are prefently, in

The glJtt'ring fpecies here and there divide.
And cad their dubious beams from fide to fide

n.f.

Not in ufe.

lick and fplendid tranfadlion.
The manner of her receiving, and the cekhrity
of the marriage, were performed with great mag-

So when the fun by day, or moon by night.
Strike on the poljih'd brafs their trembling light.

Cf'l-ATURE.

rioted.

and ftrifteft a/ii-jijffc
A.'lcrbury.
Cele'briousn ess. n.f. [£rom celebriom.]
Ce'libate. n.f. [ccelibatut, Lat.] SinRenown ; fame.
gle life.
Cele'brity. n.f. [«/fir;/fl/, Lat.] PubThe males obll^s themfelves. to celibate, an^

Milti-Ti^i Pamd'tfe LoJ}.

». /.

;

[from Caleb iy Lat.]

Single life ; unmarried flate.

In a famous manner.

And now the thicken'd iky

Ce'landine.

Ce'libacy. ». /.

Fa-

been always lo celebrioui ; yet when, after their
captivities,. they wcte defpoiled of their glory, even
then the Afl'yrians, Greeks, and Ramans, honoured with facrifices the Moft High God, whom
that nation worlhipped.
Grrw,

The inner

And to the ceiling flaih the glaring day.

[cekber, Lat.]

The Jews, Jcrufalem, and the Temple, having

Like a dark cei/ing ftood ; down rufli'd the rain
Impetuous.

and mcfentciick arteries, produces complaints.
Arbuthnct cm AHwents,

Holder's Elemtnis cf Speirb.

Cele'brious. aJj.
mous ; renowned

roof.
Varniih makes ce'ilhp not only |]iiae,butlaft.
Bacui,
*

number of letters, by the <i/t-

iratian of thofe who have added tn their alphabet.

not to have

Dicay cfPicly.

Ce'iling. «./, [from «//.]

etc//.
[xol^l<I, the belly.]
Relating to the lower belly.
The blood moving flowly tJ\rough the celiack

Some of the ancients may be thought fom.etimes
to have ufed a lefs

Whofe top branch overpeer'd Jove's fpreading tree.

[ceJn'nus, Lzt.]

Ce'LtACK.

CMrcudov,

by few.

Cele'briously. aef'v. [from cekbrious.l

Under whofe ftade the rampant lion flept

Ce'drine. «<^'.

and earth but heaven cehjiifed, or that each parf
above had influence upon its affinity below.
Brs^vn's Vulgar Erreurs*

Praife; renown; memorial-^

2.

C E Mr

"

Come on, you hear this fellow in the eellar.igr.

A

Canft th.j pretend defire, whom icaX infl.im'd
To worihip, and a powr ceiejliiil nam'd ? Drydcn.

Telemachus, his bloomy face
Glowing ctlijiial iwcet, with gi.dlik'; grice.

Cele'stial.

a.f. [from the adj.]

Pcfe.

Cb'llarist. n.f [«//ar/ar, Lat.]
butler in a religious houfe.

An

inhabitant of heaven.
Thus atfahic and mild the prince precedes.
And to the dome th' unknown celcflia! leads. Pope,

Ce'llular. adj.

To Cr i.F.'sTiKY. "v.a. [from «/(/?/.!, Lat.]
To give fomcthiu^r of heavenly nature
to any thing.
Not ufed.

We Ihuiild atfirm, that all things were in all
things, that heaven were but caith

teiteiirified.

'J'he

Diet.

[cel/uln, Ij.1t.] Confift-

ing of little cells or cavities.
The urine, infinuating itfelf amongft the neighbouring mufcles, and cellular membranes, dcftroy- \

Cele'stially. adv. [from celejfiaj.] In
a h»avenly manner.

.

ed four.

Sbarp's Sutf^fty.

C e'i.s T u D E. »./. [ci'lfitiido, Lat.] Height.
I

CE'MENT. n.f. [cctmentim. Lat,]
1.

The matter Ttiih which two bodies are
made to cuhcrt, as mortar or glue.

O

Your

.

'I'he fi uhenlana, when they loft any

Your templM burned in their ttmnf^ itii your
»n aogrt's bortk Sbak^.

railed a

Ti uchifcs confined into

Eu/npe by that action; fo that the coj/e, or rates
oj Chrillendoni, are raifed Cnce ten times, )e«

B«««.
thcmfelves.
Thi- founditioft was ma^e of rough ftonc.jyintii
togetlisr with • mod firm efmeni; ^pon this w-ai
U\A another layer, confiiling of fmall ftones aiil

To CiitiSt. 'V. a.

m Ci'r.i^y ifume
ce»t/e-

l-Tt not the peace of Tirtue,

j

GlanvilULook over the whote ereatieniandyou fliall lee,
that the band or <tir.erl, thatholdj together all the
parts of ibis great and glorious fabrick, is gratitude.

Ce'nser, »./.

The pan

or veflel in which inceafe is

Antoninus gave Piety, in hia money,

like a

lady wfth a cenfer before an altar.

unite by raeans of ibmethinginterpofed.
But how the fear of as
Shakef(>>

Liquid bodies have nocliing to lemni them ; they
ate all ' loofc and incoherent, and lii a perpetual
flax : even »n heap of fand, or fine powdery will
fulTcr no hoUownefs within them, though they be
Burnet's Ttecry of the Earth.
dry fuliftances.
Love with wh'.te lead amfis his wings

2,

[«»/?», Lat.]

Shakiffeare.

Aratc, an

aflcflinent.

God intended this cenfim only for the blefTed

To Ce'nsure. v. a. [een/urer, Fr.]
To blame ; to brand publickly.
1
The like cerfur'mgt and defpifings have embii»

Virgin and her fon, that Chtift might be boru
where helhould.
J'S't^ ^''''''•

To Ceme'nt. -v. n. To come into conjunSion to cohere.
Ce'nsor. n,f, \ceitfor, Lat.]
Whin a wound ii itccnt, and the parts sf .it 1 An officer of Rome, who had the power
;.

are divided by a (harp inftriiment, they will, if
held inclefe contact for f^me tjnie, reurite by in.-

of correcting manners.
One who is given to cenfure and ex-

2.

and tttmnz like one brartch of a tree

tereJ the fpirit;i, aua whetted both the<ongues and
pens qf learned men one agalnft inoi\\tr,Sanderf'.n*

2. To condemn by a judicial fentence.
Ce'nsurer,. »./ [from c-en/ure.] He that

blames ; he that reproaches.

We muft not ftint

probation.

Sharp's Surgery.

A per-

Our neceflary aSions, in the fear

Ill-natur'd cenfon of thtf prefcnt age,

To cope malicious cenfarers.

G:>d having dcfignco man for a fociable creahim with language, which was to
be the great instrument and ctmcr.itr of fociety.
Locke.

look upon his political ccnfurirs with the fame
neglefl that a good writer regards his criticks.

with the prodigality of his wit, though, at the
fame time, he could have wilhcd, that the mafler
Drydef,
of it had been a better manager.

ture, furnifljed

AtUifoftt

Cent. »./ [f^«/»»», Lat. a hundred.] A

CeMENtA'Tid».«./. [from «««/,] The CENSo'RiAN.iJd)'. [itom ceiifir,] Relating

hundred ; as, five per cent, that is, five
in the hundred.

•

!i& of cementing,

:

ment.

Ce'metery. It./.

[voijM.tilijfior.]

A place

where th« dead are r^pofited.
Ihe fouls of the dead appear frequently in «r)<leria,tnA hover about t1\e places where their
bodies are buried, as ftill ha:ikeriing about their
old brutal plcafures, and defiring again to enter the
.

to the cenfor.

or uniting with ce-

bod).

jlddiftm.

C E N and C N denote kinsfdk

As the chancery had the prctorian power for
equity, fo the ftarchamber had the cenfor'tan power
£act«,
for oftcnces under the degree of capital.

I .

full

Do not too many believe no relii;ion to be puirc,
but what is intcmperately rigid ? no zeal fo be Ipiritual, but what n cerfor'ums, or vindicative? Sfratt.

i

Ceuobi'ticai.. at/J. [xoo^ and ^iO-.j
Living in community.
They ha-.e mtiltituJi's of religious orders, black
and grey, ccmitical and cinU'Wual, and nuns.
Siiinnifietl.

Ce'kotaph. n /. [«('><&- and T<(^®<.]
monument for one buried elfewhcre,

A

Pri.im, to whom the ftory was unknown,

As dca'l deplor'd his mrtaroorphos'd fon j

A iifiotafh hia name and title kept.

And He£tor round cbc tomb with all hit brothers
WcpU

PrjJm's Feblts.

He treated ail his inferiours of the clergy with
a ro'-fl fanitifiea pride j was rigoroufly and univerfally ctnforieas^ uJkh all bis brethren ol the gown.

[«i»^tfari(/,

Sbakefpeart.
women all above.
The idea of a centaur has no more falfchood in
it

,

12.

than the name ctntjur.

The chcarlefs empire of the (ky

To Capricorn the Ctntaur archer v icldl.

Cb'ntaury, greater and le/t.
um.]

Two plants.

And with Cecropian ihyme fttong Icented etmaury,

Ce'ntbnary. n. /. [i«j/fn/irm, Lat.]
The number of a hundred.
In every cetiicr.ary of years from the creation,
fome fmall abatement ihoold have been made.
Hakrtvi// on Providence^

Cente'simal.

In a fevere rcflefting manner.
Ce N So'r iou s NESS. «./. [itotfi cert/orkui.]
Difpofition to reproach j hXbit of reproaching.

Hundredth

anoUicii

'fiUotfon,

Tior/c*.

[centauri'

Add pounded galls, and rofes dry.

Stvift.

,

L.cie,

The archer in the zodiack.

Censo'riously. adv. \ttom cenfortciis.l

Sournefs of difpo&tion, and rudenct^ of behaviour, frii/«-wtf/7i^fi and hsuXtT interpre'tation ot
things, all crufs and diiiafteful humours, render the
converfaiion of men grievous and uneafy to one

Lat.]

A poetical being, fuppofed to be compounded of a man and a horfe.
Down from the waift they are centtiun, though

inveftives.

is

a unai-rj garment ; and the fime was praUifed by
£rvwn't yuigjr Erreun,
them.

I .

of

: fo Cinulph
I
,
O let thy prefencc make my travels light
a help to his kindred; Cittthehn, a
And potent Venus (hall exalt my name
prottftor of his kinsfolk ; Cinburg, the
Prior,
Above the umours bi ctnfrhui famew
• defence of his kindred ; Cinric, power3. Sometimes it has j/" before theobjefljof
Gih/on.
ful in kindred.
reproach.
Ce'natory. ntij. [from ctno, to fup,
A dogmatical fpirit inclines a man to be cenf'>'
ri'/vi cfhU neighbours.
IFatli on the Mind.
Lat.] Relating to fupper.
The Romans wafhed, were anointed, and wore 3. Cometimes on.
,

Ce'nxaur. »./.

CENSo'Rtovs. ttdj. [from cen/or.1
Addifted to cenfure ; fevere ;

Sbak. Hetiry VIII.

A ftatefman, who is pofleftof real merit, Ihould

And fond of all ti»c follies of the paft. Rofccmrrcr.
The moft levere ctnjor cannot but be pleafed

fun oj thing that unites in fociety.

Shjk.

A fpiritual punifhment inflifted by fome
ecclefiaftical judge.
Ayliffe's Parergon.
Upon the unfucccfsfulnefs of milder meaicameiits, ufc that ftronger phyfick, the cirfunt of
Hammonds
the church.

llulb.

S'zvift.

.'\

To you, lord governour.
Remains the eenfurt of this hellifh villain.
/}..

Like to a cenfer in a barber's (hop.

Sbaiifp.artm

,

Judicial ientence.

3.

fire-pan.
Here 's fnip, and nip, and cut, and flifli, and

Two brigfateft, brittleft, earthly things.

Ceme'nteh. «./. [from cement

To 'icipe my ccr/an, not expeit ny praile. Ps/se.2. Judgment; opinion.
Maaam, andjrou, my filler, will you go
To give your cinfura in this weighty bufinefs ?

A

White lead was fent us to repair
Amity's fwe, and china ware.

Blame; reprimand; reproach.

1.

Fuming from golden cenfen, hid the mount. MUt.
pan in which any thing ia burned ;

Ce'nsion. «./.

to be cen-

fitnefs

furcd.

Ptaiham tn Dratv'wg.

Of incenfe clouds

May crment their di»ifions, and bind up

Blameablenefs ;

ile.]

Enough for half the grcatell of thefc days

[encenfoir, Fr.]

burned.

to Ceme'nt. "v. a. [from the noun.) To

iiigrlftedon another.

Ce'nsu iiABLENESs. M, f, ifrom cettjum-

CE'NSURE. *./ [een/ura, LAtin.l

DryJir.

And bright with ftaming fires.
1.

L^icke,

thinj ctrfurabU.

Gtineus was near, and call a furious loniv

Sottlb.

ofculacion,

thy of cenfure ; blameable ; culpable.
A fmall milUke may leave upaa the mind the
lading memory of having been taunted for foroc.

with odours : contracted from in-

On the CJe altar, ««'</ witli factcd fmoke,

Bght and darknefs f

The petty difference, wc yet not know.

Ce'nsorable. «/^'. [from«»/arf.] Wor-

Dr}iU.n,

Shal.
and earth,

was brought to Rotne In the cenfuffip of
Br^toti'iValgar Etraun.

Claudius.

Toper-

Ft.]

The Salii (ing, and cerfe his altars round
With Saban fmoke, their heads with p.-.plar bonnJ.

j

which is fee

unite* heaven

It

]

lietwixt us as the cmmt of our love,
'r» keep it builded, be the ram to batter.

What etMent Oiould

ItHceit/er,

born.

is

Bit't-r.

twenty times told.

Bond of union in fnendlhip.

z.

The office of a cenfor.
The tim» in which the office of cenfor

I.

z.

^ e fee what floods of trcafure have flmvcd into

Yr,u IT.1) fee di«rs pebbies, and a cruft of ctwtni
•r n^ne between them, a« hard a< the pebbles

Arhathniit

Ce'nsorship. «./ [from «/j/Jr.J

Cense . „.f. [eenjut, Lat.] Poblick rate.

•»<'"''•

av inarbir.

men at fca,

tenMtfb, at empty monument.

Nua en ihi OJyp}.

There is a etmni cumi>oun<)eil n( Hour, whites
efe^t, an J Hones powdered) tb« becumcth hard

t,mat.

C E N

C E N

C E N

;

n. /.

[^centfjtmus,

Lat.]

the next Itep of progreffioa

after decimal in the arithmctickof fractions.

The negleft of a few centifmali in the fide of
the cube, would bring
cube of a foot.

it

to an equality with the

Arhuthnot on Coins.

Centifo'lious. (it/J. [from centum and
folium, Lat.] Having an hundred leaves.
Ce'ntipeds.

C E N

C E R

Cb'ntipidi. n.f. [from «»/4« and

/«.]

A poifonous infeft in the Weft Indies,

centripetal into ^ ce.trijilal

commonly called by the Englilh forty
o
J

Ce'rate. tt./. [cer», Lat. wax.]
A me.
dicne made of wax, which,
with oil,

?c?J.;

peto, i,at.J

and

tence lofter than a plafter.

The direaio;n of the force, whereby
the planets
rerolve i„ thoir orbits,
is towards their
centifs

from other

authors.
It is quilted, as it were, out
of ftreds of divers
poets, fuch as fcholars call a cento.

tal, in

V-E

X o wax.

L •

TT

I

Repairs.

To Centu'plicate.

times.

p^,., j,^^^ ^j- ^^. ^^^^_

upon It.

CE,7^TRE. n.f. [centrum:, Lat.] The

gujla times by centuries

Sid":

die ; that whicli is equally
diliant

PeraJy the method o/

from

all extremities.

The heav-ns themfelra, the planets,

,R^e given to hiftorians.

Centrff

Obferve degree, priority, and

T

place,

"

fphe« 01 fite and light

„.^i,.

lo place on a centre;

centre.

2.

"•"". «="*?'

one""Th" """"'"". -'"d

'"'' '•>«

vaft

To colleft to a poiqt.

1

'

Whole thoughts are «r/r,</

T« Centre, nj, n.
I.

own breaft.

-.

1

.

-

Mrt"l
m,ch ,n foft„«„,i,ftal|

^^"Y
To be
.

3-

fmoothlyrun

Cre'dt

,

did take away that
external ce.-en,oMal
worftip that was among the
Jews.
Stillwgfleei.

I

Formal ; obfervant of old forms.
Oh monftrous, fuperftitious puritan.

2.

Of rcfin'd manners, yet ceremonial man,

IhatAvhen thou meet'ft one, with
enquiringeyes
Doft fearch an
like a needy broker, prize ^
1 he filk and gold he wears.
/j^^,,.
With du.mb pride, and a fet formal

*^'''*
Z)rj,^,„.

duir„rw™W track,

lace.
,

upon his back.

''''"' '"'''''^^'^«

Such as 1 can,_nvice

colleaed to a point.

What hopes you had in Uiomede,
lay down:
Our hope, muft centre on ourfelves

u-'l r

(JiT

I 'vetr'ew'j

fcas.

2.
pray'rs,

'" t''^

The order for rites and forms
Komilh church.

oVr/m weep and H.h. S/.k.

'.".""'

'^'""'"''"'

'hat could make it prudent
T'^' to
for the clergy
alter the ceremonial, or
any indifferent part, would>
a refoiution in the legillature to, prevent new

-'---- -

,

And on it fald a century of

pre-

fcriptive formality.
did divide the R„.

When with wood leaves and weeds

Mi/ton.

Vw/Y/

iA the

"am" of men, Ceremo'nialness. n.f. [from r^r«w«-

»/a/.J I he quality of being
ceremonial
over^much ufe of ceremony
landed in.
GiU^„
;CEREMo;Niot;s. adj. [from cerm,„j.-]
"-^ [«^^«X«M«.] T^e I.
conUiUng of outward rites,
he7d:cL^""

alone. Or/den.

u,;il^l"T'"' '"!'™"''-<'8ment3 of the body
to aim at the common
benefit.
jiircriuJ

thofe that the Saxons

It wa,

attert.c, by the viiible
centring of ali t^^
old prophecies in the
perfon of Chriil.^and

by tL

,

Ur.dcr a diifcrent a-conomy

'"'y-j"^-'''"-! That whifh
^h medicinal
!!,t^^^''^• to
the head.
IS

""^"'''f"- »•'• all fuch as

blJjf'r''"*
blood,
fo «, to

Placed In

the centre.
Some, tha' have d^ejer digg'd
in mine than I,
Say where hi, c.r.tr,ck happi„,f,
doth ^e.
D,r„^

tlie

attenuate the

make It circulate eaiily throueli

capillary velfel. of

the brain.

*

^

;

inarS15'b"f?mr"'

ami

of

religion, God was
mo« tender of the iheli and ,crenmku4

part of hi,

h. Full of ceremony;
awfuL
O, the facriiice,

Hnw cenm.niou!, folemn, and

unearthly
ct i n.
""-""6
ibaktjpearf,
Attenuve to outward rites, or

It was

i'

j.

th" oftcrine'
•

A....

'"'"'"-"'' '"^^"'^''^-^

prefcrio'^

tive formalities.

>1/^, Lat.] Having the quality acquired
byb<xlies ,„ motion, of
receding
^ from
the centre.

.,

Mirilf

•

nis grave.

CENTRiru CAL. y^. [from ..„/.,„,

into the rcaiities

01 religion.

martyr.

Romulus. as you may read,

to all ; f„ thcu,

C£ NTRicK.*^. [from««r^.]

!

^MLfi„, 'Ceremo'kial. »./ [irom cerejmy.f"'
'..hj fometimes nfed fiinply
for ahunOptward form ; ' external rite

Decay <,f

««i V -ft tVom ali thofe orbs.

of ma.

improve a ccentcnM nicety
into a fubltantial
duty, and the modes of
civility
to

H|; moves in the

bilhof often ended 1„ the

y

prieU'attends

With Jove's embroider-d coat

wherein to centre

.

fpeak the cercnor.iai rites

Sh<,k.
We are to carry it from the handriage
to the hearr.

^

;

'^; '--^ [--^"/"r/^,

."T;'"'^'' *h!KrVerie.' j, h.p^i

As Cod in hsav'n
Is centre, yet exrenda

Ztl

'

Piett,
To Lbe placed m tie midft or centre.
1

i o

VA,A,,k

own.

To reft on; to repofe on; as
bodies
when they gan an equilibrium.
T"

What mockeryiwin it be,
To wantthefaridcgioom, when the

Lat]
AA hundred: ufually employer
to^ fpe,

outward rite:'

riuial.

•

?-A moft royal

and to be' on

Kelating to ceremony, or

I.

on thyfelf alone! Dr^d

Where there Is no vlfiUe tnith

2.

S^th

f^y yo"

Siukeffecre.

CERtMONiAL. adj. [from ceretttoty.l

°/ """"^ '' f"'*"' "'^«' *»»8^
our joys,
iovs"aft/
after fome teniuria
of years, may feem
to have grown older
by having been enjoyed
fo
n«i»y age,, yet will
the/real,y ftln contlnui new.

/.„v

oft

r.i thy

Wayeburft their c«-«:.„r,?

city time ; as. the
fecond ctmury.

JW//.

world o»er, and
*"^ "^ 'nd circ„„,feren«

O imyudcnt, regardful

,1.,

and eare.' 'tis

Thy joys are rarnrrf ail in me
aloneHe may take a range all the
and vice, and
'Tvl^e"'
nd^'
centre it in his

Why canoniied bones, hc^rfea in eavtb,

firft

their charges, dif}inaiv
7wn.
billeted m the
entertainment,

1^

turfl.y

inown,

the

iaipofture.

an hour s warning.

to fcc as on a

By thy each look, and though^

vrere

Romans, who
commanded an hundred men.

„ BoZ.

otl^f
\ """'"^' profundity
obfcure;

n
J?"! IV^
*";ndthroa|h
the

in melted wax, with
which dead bodies were
iiifolded'whea
they were embalmed.
Let me not burft in ignorance,
but tell

[^'«"-^'^> Latin. l^i^

''•^-

"--^ f^'°'" "'"' r-«. wax.]

rM
*I"-YCloths
dipped

^e-

«-r" "'"r?military
officer among the

ToQz NTRE. V. a. [from the noun.]
I.

"^

Shahhcare.

^""^
'""'«' "'' * «"'"' body'all of
*
* proceeding from it would diffnfe
:,f
(f
«felf
everyway; fo th.t the faurce,
ferving ?o
the rw.'r, there, wculd
b. round about an hu^^e
fir.

Magdebur?

"*

thTl(^'^'"'TT
that
difcayered th,i grand

were ftixjuded

Bacon

A

ecclefurtical hif-

tory.

and this

is

mat--

ma

who. diltin-

which

;

P"""'^' "> "•'

and bruiles.
The ancient Ejjyptian mumm'ies

_

'

CENTUR.A-TOR.^.y: [from ««/««..]

bears

clmralh
n J

reils

*""

number of f„)d, of U„en,
befmeafed wi h
gnms, m manner of cerecloth.

[«../i);;;, La't.j

into hundreds.

'"'

ter, uled to wounds

jj.

tE NTRALLy. adv. [from centralA With ^"CEKTti-RrA'TE. ^.a
1 o divide

' '''""'

Worn"'

Ce^rhcloth. ,,./. [(vom cere
Mi^cll'tTA
Uoth fmeared oyer with glutinous

a.

-v.

[antupUca.
turn ofce^ttm
andflico, Lat.] To make
8 hundred fold ; to repeat a hundred

fprite,

tie weight, ,et the whole
weight

roiu

_

In the head of man, the
bafc of (4,e brain a„J

proper fcene.

regard to the centre.
Though one of the feet molt commonly

cered, about half an inch

the brain.

or cavihr in

ff^vid-warifi Natural Hiftorv.

-

,

Umbriel, a Aa!ky melancholy

the edges 01 tuchps.

^^j^^J^
>>-£ REBEL, a./
[cerebellum, Lat.] Part of

the ««r<,/ parts of it; fo large
as to gire reception
to that mighty roafs of water.

DovTO to the central eartA, his

-

ftrong brown thread

^

to the centre; containing the
centre;
placed in the centre, or middle.
There Mi now, and was then, a fpace

Waxed;

nCERE. <:;.«. [from ..r^. Lat. wax.]'

CtZe.

Se'ntry. J ^^^ Sentinel.

Central,

^,

[cer^tus. Lat.]

covered with wax.

the central b.My : and
eentrwc
relp.a of the re^oIving body.'

NTRY.I

RATED. ««^.

t-E

tive, in reff.ea of

Umden\ Rem.

If any man think the poem a cento,
our poet
will but have done the fame in jell
which Boileau
d^d in eameih
Adwtifcmenl to Pope'i Dunctad.
adj. \i'!oxa. centre.\ Relating

or
Oder fubftance, makes
a confif,

feme

Having a tendency to the
centre ; having gravity.

CE-NTO. n.f. ^-mtc, Lat.] A compofition formed by joining fcraps

^

force.

tfroH' -""•««

:i"V^Vi.' "'^J-

J

legs.

C E R

TJwy defcribei an hyperbola,
by chaniiine the

,

^

You are too lenfelcfs obftinatc, my lord

Jiwing horns , or fuppofed to

hav^e ihem.
Scoipi.n, a„d ^Sf. af,.l
ampl.iikena dire;
C-„..//,ih.rnd,hyj,u,,,„a flops drear.
MUion.

1 o>,

4.
^

crcmoxiou, and traditional.

Cml

according to the

;

civility ;

Shckefpeare.
ftridl

rules.«f

fcrnially refpcftfui.

OO 2

-1

liey

.

C E R

E R

<:

They have i f«t of cirtatnkyt phr»res, that run
through all ranks and degrees amoni: them.
MJi/n'i Guardien.

In tin indefinite fenfe, fbme ; as, a eer.

~.

Obfervant of the rules of civility.
Then let us take a ccrnKomoui leave.
And loving fjirwcl, of our feviial friends. Sbatejf.
6. Civil and formal to a fault.
The old caitiff was grown fo ctrcir.omaut, as he
would needs accompany me fomc mile, in my way.

In a ceremonious manner ; formally ; refpeftfully.

certainly

, Spatfer,

Cirtainty

of an event, or of a remedy.
3. That which is real and fixed.
;

Not to ufc ctrevicmes at all, is to teach others
not to ufe them again, and fo dimioUh refpeft to
Baccn.

Regularity ; fettled ftate.
ad'v, \_certes, Fr.] Certainly;
in truth ; in footh : an old word.

4,.

Ce'rtes.

Outward forms of ftate.
What art thou, thou idle certmony f
What kind of god art tho«, that fuffer'ft more

Thus for to blot the honour of the dead,

Art thou aught dfe but place, degree, and form ?

And with foul cowardice his carcafe fliame,
Whofe living hands immortaliz'd his name, S/eaf.

Sbtikifptarc.

coarfer place,

DryJenU FakUi.

The fame with cerate;

which fee.
which arc critical, a cerele of oil of
with white wax, hath hitherto ferved my

In thofe

fyijrm^n.

purpofe.

Sbakefpearc.
Ccrlis, our authors are to blame.

;

not be denied without obftinacy and folly. Tilkifin.
This the mind is equally ctrtain of, whether
thefe ideas be more or lefs general.

Any tcftimony.
A certificate of poverty is as good as a protec-

I

.

DtyJiv.
To mike her ecrta'm of the fad event.
which always produces the

4. Unfailing ;

cxpeftcd effeft.
have often wiihed that I knev» as tena:» a re-

Mtud.
medy for any other diftemper.
5 Conftant ; never failing to be ; not ca.

fual.

Virtue, that direfts our ways
Through certain dangers to uncertain prdife. Dryd.

Regular; fettled; ftatcd.
You (hall gather a errtatn rate.

Extdus.

Who calls the council, dates a etrlain d:iy.
Who forms the phalanx, and who points the way

>

-v.

a.

Fr.]

[certifier,

To give certain information of.
The Englilh ambalTadours retume J out of Flanders from Maximilian, and cer!\fi:d the king that
Bacon,
he was not t« hope for any aid from him.

However I with thee have fix'd my lot,

This form before Alcyone prcfcnr,

Addijm.

berly before company.

RefoJved ; determined.

Undoubting ; put pad doubt.

can bring certificates that I behave myfelf fo-

To Ce'rtify.

Lxke.

Certain to undergo like doom of death,
Milton's faraiijc Ltfi.
Conlort with thee.

VEJimrge.

tion.
I

This is defigned to certify thofe things that are
Httmmond'i Fundajn.
confirmed of God's favoui.
z.

Siuincy,

Cesa'rean. adj. [from Cafar.']
The Cejarean fe3iun is cutting a child out of
womb, either dead or alive, when it cannot
otherwife be delivered.
Which citcumdance, it
is faid, lird gate the name oi Ceefar to the Roman
^iney.
family f» called.
CESS, n /. [probably corrupted from ceit/ei
fee Cense ; though imagined by Junius
to be derived hom/aifire, to feize.]
1. A levy made upon the inhabitants of a
place, rated according to their property.
The like cefi is alfo charged upon the country
fometimes for vidlualling the foldiers, when they
lie in

garrifon.

Spenjer^

The aft of laying rates.
[from ceffe, Fr.] It feeras to have been

3.

ufed by Shakeffeare for bounds or limits,

though it ftand for rate, reckoning,
I pr'ythee, Tom, beat Cutts's faddle, put a few
flocks in the point ; the poor jade is wrung in the

withers out of all rWj.

Siakejf, Henry

to lay charge on.

We are to confider how much bnd there is in
all Uider, that,

according to the quantity thereof,

we may cefs the faid rent, and allowance iffuing
thereout.

Spenjer on Ireland*

7e Cess. 1/. a. To omit a legal duty.
Cessor.
Cessa'tion. n.f. [ceffatie, Lat.]

The day was yearly obferveJ for a feftival, by
ttlfation

from labour, and by reforting to church.
JiajviarJr

perfon told ; as, I certified you of the faft.

By theories, the praftick part is loft.
Vacation ; fufpenfion.

A

writ
[Latin.]
out of the chancery, to call up
the records of a caufe therein depending,

iflfuing

that juftice
plaint

may be done

made by bill,

;

upon com-

that

the

party,

End of adion ; the ftate of ceafing to

hard dealing in the faid court.

tainty ; freedom from doubt ; infallibility of proof.
They thought at fiift they dream'd j for 'twas

aft.

The ferum, which is mixed with an alkali, being
poured out to that which is mixed with an ucid,
raifoth an effervefcence 5 at the crfjatitn of which,
the fait:, of which the acid was c -mpifed, will be
regenerated.

offence

Dryden.

The preparation for your fuppct flicw* your cir-

There can be no majus and mirtut in the cer-

C«fr5«.

titude we have of thing', whether by machemaiick

Deabtmw

There had been a mighty confufion of things^
an interruption and perturbation of the ordinary
courfe, and a ceffatiun and fufpenfion of the lavft
Woedtvsrd'i Natural B'.ficry,
of nature,
The rifing of a parliament is a kind of cejjatioii
from politicks.
Addifin's Freebtliter,

who fceks the faid writ, hath received
CoiveU.
Ce'rtitude. H.f. [certitudo, Lat.] Cer-

See

A ftop; a reft.

I.

True piety, without cejpiiiin tod

CERTIORA'RI. n. f.

IV.

Ta Cess. 1/. a, [from the noun.] To rate ;

It has a/'bcfofe the thing told, after the

With them, to queftion certitude of fenfe.
tain hours.

oi antimony, and the

like.

Hudihra!.

he certifies.]
1. A writing made in any court, to give
notice to another court of any thing
Ctnucll.
done therein.

Sure; indubitable; unqueftionable
undoubted ; that which cannot be queftioned, or denied.
Thofe things are cerimr, among men, which can-

called ctrufe ; as the certije

Certi'ficate. n.f. [certificat, low Lat.

2.

[certus, Lai.]

preparation of lead with vinegar, which is of
a white colour; whence many other things, refembling it in that particular, are by chymids

2.

for, c/rteSf thefe are people o{ the iiland.

Where pomp and cerem^hUt cntcr''d not,
Where greatnefs was ihut out, and highnefs WfU

6.

much to

blame.

Of mortal grief, than do thy worfliippers ?

1

Sir Knight, you've been too

Certes,

excrement of the ear.

the

Than to be fure tliey do for ccrtainiiei
Or are pad remedies, or timely knowing,
Sbakejpeare.
The remedy then born.

The faucc to meat is cercmcry ;
Shakcjfegrt.
Meeting were bare without it.

CE'RTAIN. adj.

Locke.

Exemption from failure; as the certainty

2.

Formi of civility.

Ce'rote. n. /.

the perception of the agreement or

Doubting things go ill, often hurts more

forgot.

Gre^^

A

difagreement of our ideas.

Quite from the main opinion he held once
Shaktff.
Of faoufy, of dreams, and ciranon'uu
Difrobe the images.
ctrtmonj,
deck'd
with
Sbahff.
If you find them

A

is

as the rubifick, eerw

Ce'ruse. «./. [ceruffa, Lat.] White lead.

Exemption from doubt.

1

H« is fuperftitious grown of latBj

'

'I'lie feveral fpecies of rays,

lifek, and others, are fcparated one from another.

CERU'MEN, n.f. [Latin.] The wax or

Ce'RTAiNTy. tt.f. [from certaJa.l

Bring her up to the high altar, that flie may

himfelf.

ing the power to produce a blue colour;

Ltckt.

fame with certainty,

gion.

3.

Qtnv 1,1' t\CK.adj, [itomceruleous.'] Hav-

Ch'rtainness. tt.f. [from etriain.] The

Outward rite; external form in reli-

2.

known.

Thomfm't Summeri

Its hue cerulean^

Without fail.

2.

CE'REMONY. «. / [ctremonia. Lit.]

1.

From thee the faphire folid ether takes.

he that, by thofe legal means, canoo!
be fecured, can be much lels fo by an)' private atDecty of Piety.
tempt.
Whatprecife collcdion of fimple ideas rnodefty
or frugality ftand for, in anuthcr's ufe, is not fo

ufe of too much ceremony.

olives,

now and then a light
touch of flcy colour, but nothing near fo high a>
the eerulecu: tjn^^ure of filver.
Boyle^

Certainly

Addiftednefs to ceremony ; the

Iky-coloarcd.

It afforded a folution with

out doubt.

Csremo'niousness. «./ [frota cerema-

3.

Ceru'leous. J

Indubitably; without queftlon ; with-

1.

CtrottoxKujIy let us prepare
Some welcome for the miftrefs of the houfe.
Si»ihf{>are.

z.

Cer u'lean. \adj, [cctruletu,h».X..'\ Blue j

Ce'rtainly. «</i;. [from «r/a/«.]

eus.]

Be-

[tervicalis, Lat.]

7'he aorta, bending a little upwards, lends fortk
the cervical and axillary arteries; the reft, turning
down again, forms the defcending trunk.
Cbryne.

mikim.

be tradable.

Sidney.

The facrcd ceremmies partake.

any other tny of eenfequenet*
Grev't Cojnto/ogia SarrOf

longing to the neck,

counted, terttin of the fame countrymen do pais
far heyon3 it.
Care^u^i Surety.
Some certain of your brethren roar'd, and ran
From noife of our own drums.
Sbahjptare.
Let there be tertain leather bags made of fevcral
bignelTcs, which, for the matter o{ them, (hould

Ceremo'niously. aJv. [from ceremoni-

J.

i)eii>enATttt«B| er

man told me this.
H«w bad foever this fa/hion may juftly be ac- Ce'rvical. euS-

tain,

5.

niout.]

C E S

,

Arbutbr.at on Aiimentt*

A paufe of hoftility, without peace,
Wlicn the tuccours of the poor

pretcftants in

Irel.ind were diverted, I was intreated to get them

fome refpite, by a ceJTatim,

King Cbarlis.

cEssj'nr.

C H A

C H A

CESSjfrir. ft./. [Latin,]

To warm with rubbing.

I.

A

They laid him upon foroe of their

writ that lies upoa this general jratind, that
the perfon, againft whom it is brought, hath, for
two )rears, omitted to perform fuch lervice, or pay

fuch rent, as he is obliged by his tenure ; and hath
not, upon bis land t tenement, lufficient goods
or chattels to be diftrained.
Csw.-//.

Cessibi'litv.

it feems to dull md deaden the flroke ;
whereas, if the thing ftrrcken be hard, the ftroke

icems to lofe no force, but to work a greater effc&,
Vigby on tke Soul,

of the ftrucken body be fo eafily
ctjjibie, as without difficulty the flroke can divide
them, then it enters into fuch a body, till it has
If the parts

^igby on the Soul,

fpcnt its force.

Retreat ;

Ft, ce^o, La.t.]
the aft of giving way.
[ceffion.

garment.?,

to rub and chafe him, till they brought
recover both breath, the fervant, and

Sidney,

To rub her temples, and to chafe her fliin.
Ftiiry

To heat by rage or hurry.

New fall'n from heav'n, with violets mix'd, did
grow

obfolete.]

That to clofe prifon he commanded her.

Shakefp,
An offer of pardon more chafed the rage of thole,

who were refolved to live or die together.
Sir yohn HaytoarJ,

parity in their council would make and fecure
the beft peace they can with France, by a cejion of
Flanders to that crown, in exchange for other pro-

vinces.

And his red eyeballs roll witli living fire. Dryden.

A

Iimple,

To Chafe, 'v. n.
I .

DiS.

Sfenjer's Hub, Tale,

He will not rejoice fo much at the abufe of Falthe db£lor's marrying my

In law, he th.it ceafeth or negle£ieth fo long to
perform a duty belonging to him, as that by hii
cefs, or ceiTmg, he incurreth the danger of law,
and hath, or may have, the writ celTavit brought
againft him.

to rave

And cbafd at that indignity right fore.

Ce'ssor. »./. [from ceffi, Lat.]

ftaff, as he will chafe at

daughter.

Shakffiare,
Be lion mettled, proud, and take no care
Who chafeiy who frets, or where confpirers are.

Where it is faid the tenant ceffeth,

Shakefpeare.

fuch phrale is to be underflood as if it were faid,
the tenant ceffeth to do that which he ought, or
is bound, to do by his land or tenement.
Cnuell.

How did they fume, and ftamp, and roar, and
tbafe,

Alid fwear!— not Addifon himfelf was fafe. Puft.

CrSTUS. n,/, [Latin.] The girdle of z. To fret againft any thing.
The troubled Tyberri'<i^ii; with his fliorci.

Venus, without any ornament but her own
beantiei, not fo much as her own cejlus,
jUdlfrM's Speffator,

Ceta'ceous.

adj,

Sbake/feare's Juliut Ctefar,

Of the whale kind.
Such fifhes as have lungs or refplration are not

Lat.]

A heat
a rage ; a fury ; a pafllon j a fume j a
pett ; a fret ; a ftorm.
When Sir Thomas More was fpeaker of the
parliament, with his wifdom and eluquence he

which converfe chiefly in the northern feas, whofe
whole body being cncompani:d round with a copious fat or blubber, it is enabled to abide the grcat-

Ray on tbt Crcaikn.
FAUT.
note in the fcale of mofick.
Gamut I am, the ground of all accord,

«ll cold of the fea-water.

C

Cfaut, that loves witii all affefti' n.

Shaktfpurt.

naturalized, the found of (^ ; a peculiar

pronunciation, which it is hard to defcribe in words. In (bme words derived

from the French, it has the found of Jh,
as chai/e
and, in fome derived from
the Greek, the found of li, as cielericL
Chace. See Chase.

A fort of fifh.

Of round fiih th-re are brit, fprat, whiting.
tia,U e-ls. r, r.ga-, millet. Cjre-.u't Surv. o/Corniu.

Ta CHAfE. v. a. [ubaujer, Fr.J

A

Cha'ffery. n.f. [from ciiaff'er.] Traflick ; the praftice of buying and felling.
The third is, merchandize and chafferi ; that
is, buying and felling.
Spcnjer's State of Ireland.

Cha'ffinch. n.f. [ftoxa chaff zndfnch.l

A bird fo called, becaufe

it

delights ia

and is by fome much admired for
its fong.
Phillips's World of Words,
The chaffinch, and other fraall birds, arc injuchaff,

rious to fome fruits.

Mortimer s Hitfhaniiry.

Cha'ffless. adj. [from chaff.\ Without
chaff.

Unlike all others, rij^f/i. Shakrjpeare's Cymbciine.

Cha'ffweed. «. f,

[gna^krdium. Eat.]

fee.

Ch a'ffy. M'. [jTcmchaff.l LikechafTi
full of

chaff; light.

If the flraws be light and chaffy, and held at
a reafonabie diftance, they will not rile unto the

Sro^^Rs f^ulgar Firours,

middle.

The moft (light mi chaffy opinion, if at a great
tion.

An officer belonging

for the fealing of writs.

chaffer.'\

buyer ; bargainer ; purchafer.
Cha'ffern. n.f, Iftom efc/jauffir, Fr.

remove from the picfent

to the lord chancellor,

who fits the wax
Harris.

age, contracts a veneraGlati'ville,

Ch a'fincdish. n.f, [from chafe and
H dip-l A vefTel to make any thing hot
in ; a portable grate for coals,
M.*ke proof of the incorporation of fiivcr and
tin in equal quantities, whether it will endure the
ordinary firev^liich belongctli lo ck.ifir.gdijhcs, pof-

ncU) and fuch other fiitnt velVcts.

Ch a'per. n.f. [c^apop. Sax. hver, Dut.]
Jiacon's Phyfical Remains.
An infeft a fort of yellow beetle.
Chagri'n. n.f, [chagrlne.Yt.l III hu;

n,/, A forge in an iron mill,
where the iron is wrought into complete
bars, and brought to perfeftion. Phillips,

Cha'fer r.

;

Chad. n./.

[from

cardinal, in a chafe, fent for him to Whitehall.

Chafe-wax. «./.

CH has, in words purely Englifli, or fully

Fairy S^ueen.

Cha'pferer. n.f,

fo croffed a purpofe of cardinal Wolf;y's, that the

Camdcn^s Remains,
At this the knight grew high in chafe.
And Aaring furiouily on Ralph,
He trembled.
Huditrat,

A
A re, to plead Hortenfio's paflioai

B mi Bianca, take him for thy lord,

Sbakejp. King Lear,

Chafe, n./, [from the verb.j

without the wczzon, as whales and tetaceoui animals.
Brown'i Vulgar Ernurs,
He hath creatW variety of thefe cettcioui fifhes,

Approaching nigh, he never ftaid to greet,

Ne chaffer words, proud courage to provoke.

;

That on th' unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
Cj'inot be heard fo high.

He chaffer'd chairs in which churchmen were fet.
And breach of laws to privy farm did let. Spenfer.
2. To exchange.

An herb, the fame vi'nYt cud-ivced which

The murmuring furge,

[from cite, whales,

To buy.

The love I bear him.
Made me to fan you thus ; but the gods made yon

Once upon a raw and gufty day.

Venus.

1.

to heat.] Aveflel for heating water. Dii^.
;

to boil.
Therewith be 'gan full terribly to roar.

Martin.

Ce'ssment. b.j: [from r^.] An afleffment or tax.

To rage ; to fret ; to fume

chaffering

Ta Cha-ffer. V, a. [The aftive fenfe is

When flic for thy repeal was fuppliant,

quitting to another.

ed up all his effefts.

Drydeiis Tah'ci^
with diffenters, and dodging
about this or toother ceremony, is but like opening a few wickets, and leaving them a-jar. S-wift.
Jn difputes with chairmen, when your mailer
fends you to chaffer with dicm, take pity, and tell
your mafter that they will not take a farthing
lefs.
Swift.

The

For all that he was inwardly chafed with the
heat of youth and indignation, againit his own
people as well as the Rhodians, he moderated himiclf betwixt his own rage, and the offence of his
foldiers.
KmHes'i H:Jlory of the Turks,
This chafd the boar ; his noftrils dames expire.

eeJJSonary bankrupt, ene who has deliver-

Where biiliopricks and finecutes are fold.

Lilies more white than fnow

Bacon^s Natural Hijlory,

[fromcejjicn.] As, a

To chaffer for preferments with his gold,

3. To perfume.

Whofe fcent fo cbafd the neighbour air, that you
Would furcly fwear Arabick fpices grew. Suckling,
4. To make angry ; to inflame palfion.
Her interceffion chafed him fo.

;

haggle ; to bargain.
Nor rode himfelf to Paul's, the publick fair.

.'

2, Refignation j the aft of yielding up or

CHA'FFER. -v, ». [imjen. Germ.
To treat about a bargain to.

to buy.]

Have I not heard the fea, puft 'd up with winds,
Rage like an angry boar chafed with fweat Shak,

Sound is not produced without fome reliftance,
either in the air or the body percuflied ; for if there
be a mere yielding, or ceffion, it produceth no found.

Ct'itiovAKr. adj.

To

Like pliant wax, when chafing hands reduce
The former mafs to form, and frame to ufe. P>yd,
z.

It is ufed for any thing worthlefs.

2.

S^een,

Soft, and morefoft, at ev'ry touch it grew ;

Ce'ssible. a/i/, [from «</», cejfum, Lat.]
Eafy to give way.

1 .

to

At laft, recovering heart, he does begin

the lubje^ drucken be of a proportionate

Cb'ssion. n./,

fell

him

warmth, the companion of living.

[from «</», cejitm,
Latin.] The quality of receding, or giving way, without refitlance.
It'

and

n. /.

trjjihility,

C II A
Pleifure .vith inft:uSion OiouU be joln'd j
So tike the coin, snd leave the rA(j^behind.2);y</.
He fet before him 'a fack of wheat, as it had*
been juft threfhed out of the flieaf ; he then bid
him pick out the chaff Item among the com, and
lay it afidc by itfelf.
Sfeffator,

CHAFF, n.f. [ceap. Sax. kaf. Dutch.]
1 .

The huflts of corn that arc fcparated
by threfliing and winnowing.

We

fliall

he winnow'd with fo rough a wind,

That cv'n our corn rtiall fcem as lig'it as ihaff.
And good from bad find no partition. Sbak.H. IV.

mour ; vexation

;

fretfulnefs ; peevifh-

It is ^TOnovtncei fhagreen.
Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin;

nefs.

That linglc aft gives half the world the fpleen.
Pope,
1 grieve with the old, for fo many additional
inconvcnicncies and chagiins, moic than their
fmalJ remain of life feemed deftincd to undergo.
Pope's Letters.

To Chagri'n. v. a, [Jjagriner, Fr.] To
vex ;

C H A

C H A

C H A

-vex ; to pat out of temper ; to teaze
to make uneafy.

of the thigh, and the calf of the lef, are torn off
by the chatfjhel, and fplinters. ffi^aiCi Surgery.

blematical figures anlawful ornaments r f cap) »(
chalicet.

StiJIimgflrel.

Cha'inwork. ». /. [from chain and Ch a'liced.<i<^'. [ from fa//>, Lat. the cup
CHAIN n.f. \_cbaint, Fr.]
tviri.]
Work with open fpaces like
of a flower.] Having a cell or cup apI. A feries of links faftened one within
:

And Pharaoh took off his ring, >D<3put it upoo

Nets ofchequerwoi k, and wreaths of ctainmcrt,

Jsreph'i hand, and put a gold chain about his neck.

for the chapiters which were upon the top< of the
pillars.

Gcnifiz, x!l. 42.

I .

fured.

A

4..

A feries linked together, as of caufes
or thoughts ; a fuccefEoa ; a fubordioaThofe fo miflake the Chriftian

It the king dead ?

religion, as to

it

is

to

7*0

Chalk, it. a. [from the noun.]

1.

To rub with chalk.

Keep Rome in fafety, and the chain of iuftice
'Supply wijh worthy men. Shiticffrare'i Coriolanui,
Her grace fat down Co reft awhile.
In a rich chair of ftate. Shakejpcare' s Henry Vli,.
The committee of the Commons appointed Mr.
Pym to take the chair,
Cluterdan.
In this high temple, on a chair of ftate.
The fejt i>f audience, old Latinus fare. Dryd. JEt.

To fallen or bind with a chain.
Thfy repeat daily any wholcfume aft eft.ibliflicd

AgainU the rich, and provide more piercing llatutes
daily to chain up and rcftrain the poor.
Shakffpeare' t Coi-h/ann:.

The mariners he sbamiJ in his own galleys for
(Savei.

Knsilii,

Or march'd I ctdin'J behind the hoftile car,
The viftor's paftime, and the fport of war Piicr.
!

Thty, with joint force opprclTion chawing, fct
Imi erial jufticc at the helm.
Thcmjla.
i. To enflave ; to keep in flavery.
The monarch was ador'd, the people cbah'il.
Prior.

3.

full

of ordnance, and

funtp.'\

H^aits.

One whofe trade it is to carry a chair.

{ut.'\

Inftead of paying chairmen, run tliem through.
.Swif:.

Chaise, n.f. [chai/e, Fr.]

A carriage of

pleafure drawn by one horfc.
Inftead of the chariot he might have faid the
chai/e of government ;

for a chaife is driven by rhe

pcrfon that fits in it.

^ddijin.

ChaLCO'grAPHER. ».y;

[from chain and

Chalco'gr APHTf. n./,

as the other

Engraving in brafs.
Cha'lder. In./. A dry Englilh meaCha'ldron. > fure of coals, confifting of

a great
£[uantity of water, works eafily, and is
eafily mended ; but takes up a great
deal of room, and makes a difagreeable
noife.
Chambers.
It yields

not long firice the f^riking of the topmail, a wonderful great cafe to great fhips, both
at lea and in harbour, hath been devifed ; toge.
ther with the cbain/umf, which takes up twice as
much water as the ordinary did ; and we have
lately added tlie bonnet and the drabble.

half bullets, failentd
together by a chain, which, when they
f y open, cut away whatever i» before
bullets

ill lea

Chambers.

Cha'lice. n.f.

When from tiiy (hore the tempcft beat us back,
I flood upon tiie batches in the ftorm.

SbakcJ^,

That bellowing beats on Dover's fi<i/iji clift.
Jiovte,

2.

Impregnated with chalk.
Chalky water towards the top of earth
fretting.

it too
Macon.

To call another to anfwer for an offence

1

by combat.
The prince of Wales ftept forth before the king.
And, nephew, challerg'd you to fingle fight, itai,

To call to a conteil.

2.

[calic. Sax. calice, Fr.

1'hus form'd for fpeed, he challenges the wind,

1

A cup

;

a bowl.

power by right of fatherhood, cither intelligible or

When in your motion you are hot.

pnffible.

And, that he calls for drink, I'll have prepar'd him

A cLa.ice for the nonce.
2.

It is generally ufed for

'

And leaves the Scythian arrow far behind. Dryd.
J challenge any man to make any pretence ^to

calix, Lat.]

Shaieff'eare.

a cup ulVd in

ai3s of worfhip.
6bhtt, oftcniiines, a buttock, the btawn

[{rota chalk.

Confifting of chalk ; white with chalk.
As far as 1 could ken the chalky cliffs,

1.

at Guildhallj London.
The chaldron
Ihould weigh two thoufand pounds.

or

tbem.

Cha'lky. adj.

[j{;aXx«)'{«9i«.]

up, according to the fealed bufhel kept

Ralrigh't Effayt.

Two

See

Ch alk-cvtter.

Cha'udron. J thirty-fix bufhels heaped To CHA'LLENGE. v. a. [chaUnger, Fr.]

I'

£ti a'insuot. It./, [from «/>«;'» and//i>»/.]

A pit in which chalk is dug.

[x,aXiioypa.flS^,

vf fiels, which is double, fo that one rifes
falls.

Chalk-pit. n.f. [from chalk 2sni fit.

of ;^a^x®', brafs, and 7fa<p«, to write
or engrave.]
An engraver in brafs.

A pump ufcd in large Englilh

[from chalk au^

A man that digs chalk.

Shells, by tlie feamen called chalk e^s, are-dug
up commonly in die chalk-pits, where tbe chalks
cullers drive a great trade with them.
fVoiJiuard.

Pregnant with Greeks, impatient to be freed j

Thcge bully Creeks, who, as the moderns do,

O Warwick, I do bend my knee with thine,
And in this vow do chain my foul with thine.
Shaktfpeare,

Snii,

With thefe helps I might at leaft have chalked
out a way for otiiers, to amend ray errours in a
like defign.
Dryden.
The time falls with' 1 the compafs here chalked
out by nature, very pun^ually.
fToodirard's Natural 11j^cry.

Troy chairmen hotc the wooden fteed,

To unite.

t^ /.

creatures.

One elbows him, one jufllcs in the ftiolej

fCml/ii't Hj/lcry of the Turh.

(^ra'inpump.

His own mind chalked out to him the juft proportions and meafures of behaviour to his fellow.

A rafter breaks his head, or chairman's pole. Dryd. Chalk-cutter.*./,

Or he whofe rlrtue Cgh'd to lo£; a day ?
Pupc
3. To keep by a chain.
The admiral feeing the mouth of the haven
and the cadles

Mortimer,

Being not propt byanccftry, whofe grace
Chalks i'ucceflours their way.
iihalefpeare%

In atfemblies generally one pcrfon is chofen
chairman or moderator, to keep the feveral fpeakers
to the rules of order.

not we'l dungej,

To mark or trace out as with chalk.

a fedan.

;

if it is

"l?-

3

^

f>5'.

firongly snanned, durft not attempt to enter.

Land tliat is chalked,

will receive but little benefit from a fecond chaik-

Think what an equipage thou haft in air,

Thia world, 'tit true,
*'a; made for Csfar, but for Titus too
And which more bleft ? who ciain'd his country,

ehaircJ,

A vehicle born by men

The i>eaft!y rabble then came dowa
From all the garrets in the town,
And ftalls and (hopborirds in vaft fw.itms,
With new chalk'd bills and nifty arms. HuJihras,
2. To manure with chalk.

And view with fcorn two pages and a chair. Poj>e.
Cha'irman. ».'_/". [from f/6«/r and «(««.]
1. The prefident of an aflembly.

2.

Mortimer.

With chalk I lirft defcribe a circle here.
Where tiiefe eti.creal fpirits muft appear. DryJcn.

For chcir and dukedom, throne and kingdom, foy
Either that's thine, or elfe thou wertnot his.
Shakeffeare.

yu Chain, -v. a. [from the nouh.']

with nun and firoll.

difi'olves

Shaktfptarci Riihard III.

The honour'd gods

^uenccs are mere clear, and tht ctaim of them
ii- re long.
Bjirnct'i linrj af tkt Earth.

Ifaiao,

Chalk is of two forts ; the hard, dry, ftrong,
chalk, which is beft for lime ; and a foft, un^uouj
chalk, which is beft for lands, becaufe it eifily

claim the

If thou be that prircely eagle's bird.
Show thy dcfccnt by gazing 'gainll the fun j

faculty, fo <rpecially in thlt of right reafoninj;;
<wiiich is ftill tl« greater, by liowjnuch the coiifo-

I:

He maketh all the ftones of the altar as cijlk
ftones, that are beaten in funder.

crown.^

only a chji/i of fatal decreet,* to deny
«U liberty of man'a choice toward good or evil.
dtntntmfn
Ai there is pleafure at the tjjght exercife of any

j^.

Chalk is a whitefoflile, ufually reckoned a tlone,
but by fome ranked among the boles. ]c is ufed
in medicine at an abforbcnt, and is celebrated for
curing the heartburn.
Chambers.

A feat of jufljce, or of authority.
here

Sbaliifpeare,

n.f. [cealc, cealcrran. Sax.
caici, Welfti.]

—Is the fic/r empty ? Is the fword unfway'd ?

tion.
thir.k

On chalic'd flowers that lies.

for a fingle perfon, with out a back. Waiti'i Logici.

He makes for England,

the lark at heav'o's gats fiogs.

CHALK,

If a chair be defined a feat for a fingle pcrfon,
with a back belonging to it, then a ftool is a feat

a.

!

His fteeds to water at thefe fprings,

A moveable feat.

Fojie.

furreyor may at foon, with h)i {bain, mcartre O'Jt infinite ipace, as a philofopher, by the

bat

And Phoebus "gins arife.

Or laugh and Ihake in Rabelais' eafy chair.
Or praiie the court, or magnify mankind.
Or thy griev'jl country's copper chains unbind.

Or bound in forma), or in real rhaint.
Fofi,
A line of links with which land is mea-

3.

euickcft fiighc ot" mind, reach it ; or, by thinking,
comprehend ic.
Lockr,

Hark, hark

I Kings.

whether thou choofe Cervantes' Terious air,

Still in cocftraint your fufF'iing fex remains,

a flower,

to

now obfolete.

CHAIR. «./ [chair, Fr.]

A

bond ; a msntcle ; a fetter ; fomething'with which prifoners are bound.

i.

J.

plied by Sbake/ptare

the links of a chain.

another.

All thechuich at that time did not think em-

3.

Lucie,

To accufe.
Many of them be fuch lofels and fcatterlings,
as t')at they cannot eafily by any Ihcriff' be gotten,

wheo they are (baiUngtd tot any fuch fait.
Syenjer en Ireland,

Were

Were die grac'd perfon of our Banqns prefent.

3.

Whom I may rather cbaHingi for unkindncfs.
[In law.] Toobjefl to the impartiality
of any one. [§ee the noun.]
Though only tw#»e are fworn, yet twenty-four

4.

'

So much 1 chalimge, that I may profcfs
ShakefpTart.
Due to the Moor, my lord.

Had you not been their father, thefe white flakes

Till it cry. Sleep to death.

two,

A

3.

Collier

f fYundfisif.

:

whole number is excepted againft,

challenge

caufe

:

and

principal,

challenge principal

challenge
is th.:t

for

cauic.

Sharp.

A court of joftice.
The

5.

lower part of a gun where the

'\

.

combat.
Young man, have you challenged Charles the

?—

No, fair princefs ; he is the general cballergir, Shak.
Death was dcnounc'd j

in a min^.

Ch a'mb ERMAID. n.f. \ixom chamber a.\\&

A maid whofe bufmefs is to

drefs a lady, and wait in her chamber.

Men will not hil's.
Benforftir,
The cbgmbermaid was named Clfs.
Some <oarfe country wi^ncli, almoft decay 'd.

Trudges to town, and firft turns r^dmfr«mfli</. Pt/w.
When he doubted whether a word were intelligible or no, he ufed to confult one of his lady's
chambermaids.

Svjift,

If thefe nurfes ever prefume to entertain the
girls with the common foliie'! praftifed by chamSviift.

TaCHA'MDLET. f. a. \ftovci cameht. See

Came LOT.] To vary; to variegate.
Some have the veins mo:e varied and chamblited; as oak, whereof wain fcot is made.

ti

Romans.

nnefs.

The be:i blood chambcr'd in his bt^m.

Sh^ik.

A

man of intrigue.
I

Inve not thofe foft parts of converfation.

That cbambercrs have.

Ch a'mberfelloW.

Shakefpeare,
Jt.

/. \irom cl} amber

and fellt)iu.'\ One that lies in the fame
chamber.
It is my fortune to have a chamberfeHtmi, with
whom I agree very well in many fentiments.
Sle^atiir,

Cha'mberlain. n.f. \fxQm chamber,

"[

Lord great chamberlain of England is
the fixm officer of the crown ; a confi-

derable part of his fun&ion is at a coronation ; to him belongs the provifion
of every thing in the houfe of lords ;
he difpofes of the fword of ftate ; under

him

are

the

gentleman

To

this

office

Its

as with its feet,

To rcfide as in the chamber.

Ch a'mherer. ». yi [from chamier.']

1.

ing of the uppe/part of the hinder leg.

three claws.

Let us walk honeflly as in the day, not in riot
ing and drunkennefs, not in chambtring and wan2.

Bac'-ns Natural Hiflcny,

The chameleon has four feet, and on each foot

ZoCha'mber. v. n. [from the noun.]
1. To be wanton ; to intrigue.

of the
and doorilie duke of

uftier

keepers.

Sbakt/feart,

Cha'mberlainship. n.f. [from chamberlain.l The office of a chamberlain.

Farrier's Diii,

And unconcernedly call his eyes around.

9

as,

The cavity where the powder is lodged ChAMe'lEON. n.f. [y(J>.^t.i,^'K^tll>.'\

7.

black rod, yeomen ulher;,

Fer her pciiedioai.

;

chamberlain of the exchequer, of Chefter,
Chambers.
of the city of London.

Camden s Remains.

He took the fummons, void of fear.
As if to find and dare the griefly iballengtr. Dryd.
One that claims fupcriority.
Whofc worth
Stood challenger on mount of all the age,

Drydir.'s Tables.

A receiver of rents and revenues

4.

Ch a'mbrel 0/^fl itfr/f. The joint or bend-

Coiuell.

One that defies or fummons another to

Shaiefp.

He ferv'd at firft y^milia's chamberlain.

charge is lodged.
6. A fpecies of great gun.
Names give:i them, as cannons, demi-cannons,
chamber/, arquebufe, mulket, &c.

which

You are mine enemy, I make my challenge,
You (hall not be my judge.
Sbaiejfeare.
Ch a'llencer. »./. [from challenge.

We will with wijie and WiifTel convince,

bermaids among us, th>;y are pubiickly whipped.

\n rhe Imperial chamber this vulgar anfwer is
not admitted, vix. I do not believe it, as the matter
is rr.jpnunded and alleged.
Ayhffe's Parergt/n.

as

the law allows without caufe alleged,
or farther examination ; .ts a prifoner at
the bar, arraigned upon felony, may
peremptorily challenge to the number of
twenty, one after another, of the jary
empannelled upon him, alleging no

wrertlcr

Priar.

exiitence in the poiteriour chamber.

challenge to or

by the poll, ii when fome one or mote
arc excepted againft, as not indifferent:
challenge to the jurours is divided into

2.

grave.

4.

aiEze to the jurours, or any one or more
of them, by the prilbner at the bar.
ChalUnge made to the jurours, is either
made to the array, or to the polls chaU
Itngt made to the array, is whoti the

1.

Ihe dark c<ives of death, and chambers of the

Slak.

[In law.]
An exception taken either
againft perfons or things ; perfon s, as in

partially eropannellcd ;

Any retired room.

Petit has, from an examination of the figure of
the rye, argued againft the poffibility of a film's

Taking for his youngliaga cark,
Left greedy eyes t > them might challenge lay,
Bufy with oker did their Ihoulders mark. Sidney.
There muft Ve: na challenge ot fil^citoiity, ordilcountenancii:g of freedom.

Shakefpeare.

natural cave in a rock may have fomething
not much unlike to parlours or chambers, Bentley.
2.

ShaiJ'peare,

When Duncan is adcep, his two chamberlains

maid.'l

Of his own chamber.

3. Any cavity or hollow.

A demand of fometbing as due>

Will put thy fhirt on warm ?

Shakefpeare.

When we have matk'd with blood tli')fe fleepy

my life

Did hear a cbal!a:^i urg'd more modeftly.
2.

Ah

ufed for thofe appropriated to lodging.
Bid them come fortii, and hear me.
Or at their chamber door I'll beat the drum.

A fummoDS to combat.
1 iiever in

Think'ft thou

That the bleak air, thy boifterous chamberhln.

CHA'MBER. n. /. [chambre, Fr. camera,
1.

A fervant who has the care of the
chambers.

Several French battalions made a Ihew of refinance; but, upon our. preparing to fill up a little
fofle, in o[der to attack them, they beat tl'.e chnmc.ie, and fent us charte blanche.
Mdijon.

conditions.

1.

3.

CHJMA'DE.tt./.[FTtJich.] The beat of
the drum which declares a furrender.

Addij n.
And cballeng: better ter.ns.
6. To call any one to the performance ot

Cka'llenoe. n.f. [from the verb.]

A patriot is a fool in every age.
Whom all lord chamberlains allow the ftage. Pope,

jirhutbnot on Diet.

Welfh.]
apartment in a houl'e ; generally

Clarendon*

brother.

al-

1.7A. fiamhr,

mignt be put into tlie hands of h!s

chctmbrrlain

;

Tlie diet ought to ftrcngthen
lowing fpices and wine, and tlie ufe of chalybeate

A

1 will now ebalUnge you cf your promife, to
five me certain rules 35 to the principles of blazonry.
Peacham crt Dronchig,

Impregnated with iron or fteel

wate;s.

Sbiikejptate.
Did cha 1 itgi pity oi them.
So whey, a tyf^r futks the bullock's blood,
familh'd liua, iffuirt; from the wood,
Roai( loudly fierce, and challniget the food. Drjd.
Hall chou yet drawn o'er young Juba ?
That ftill would recommend thee more to Cwfar,

'

Humbly complaining to her deity,
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty. Shakefpeare.
He was made lord lleward, that the ilaff of

the folids,

Which oi you, (hall we fay, doth love us mod ?
That we our largcft bounty may extend
W^hcre natuie doch with merit cial'trge, Sht:kcjj>.
And fo much duty as my mother fij:w'd
To you, preferring you before her father;

Ea. neft challengers there are of trial, by fome
Hcchir.

having the qualities of fteel.

TlaU.

of chiefeft acceptation is by the bed things wor,
Hxktr.
thily challenged,

the king's chambers, except the ^eChambers,
cinft of the bedchamber.

fteel.]

To claim as due.
1 hat divine ot'Ser, whereby the pre-eminenc

A

Chaly'beate. ctc/J. [from chaljis, Lat.

'

ir.ake ciel-'ault.

claimant ; one that requires fomething as of right.
pubiick difputation.

are to be leturne^ to fupi'ly the deCeiSs or wait
cf appearance of thole that are cbjlieagtd off, r

5.

C H A

C H A

C H A

Ancaftcr makes an hereditary claim.
Chambers.
2. Lord chamberlain of the houfehold has
the orerfight of all officer) belonging to

tail
it

is

long ; with this, as well

faftcns itfclf to theT>ranchcs of

ending in aa
back is /harp, its Ikin plaiteil,
and jagged like a faw from the neck to the ialt
joint of the tail, and upon its head it has fomething like a comb; like a filh, it has no neck.
Some have alfertcd, that it lives only upon air;
but it has been oblerved to feed on flies, catched
with its tongue, which is about ten inches long,
- and three thick;
made of white fle/h, round, bus
trees.

Its tail is fiat, its nofe long,

obtufe point ;

its

the end ; or hollow and open, rcfembling
an elephant's trunk.
It alfo ihrinks, and grows
longer.
This animal is faid to afl'umc the colour
of thofe things to which it is applied; but our
flat at

modern obfervers alTure us, that its natural colour,
wlien at reft and in the (hade, is a bluilh grey ;
though fome are yellow, and others green, but both
of a linaller kind. When it is expoled to the fun,
the grey changes into a darker grey, inclining to a
dun colour; and its parts, which have leatl of the
light

upon them, are changed into fpots of dif.

fereiit colours.

The grain of its /kin, when the

light doth not /hine

upon it,

is

like cloth

mixed

with many colours. Sometimes, when it is handled, it fecmo fpeckled with dark fpots, inclining
to green.
If it be put upon a black hat, it appears to be of a violet colour; and fonietimcs, if
it be wrapped up in linen, it is white ; but it
changes colour uoly in fome parts of the body.
Calmet,

A chameleon is a creature about the bignefs of an
ordinary lizard ; his head ur.prouortionably big,
and his eyes great; he movsth his head without
writhing of hit neck, which is inflexible, as a

hog doth i

bis back crooked, his Ikla fpotccd witli
IjitU

CH A
Ifttle tuinouri, Itfs eminent

ne»ret Ae fceUy ; h'n

and long ; on each foot he hlth five
tingcn, three on the outfide, and two on the infide ; his tongue of a marvellout length in refpeft
of his body, and hollow at the end, which he wili
launch out to prey upon flies ; of colour gt<en> and
of 1 dulky yellow, brighter and whiter toward! the
telly; yet fpotted with bhie, white, and red.
Becnft Natural Wificry,
I can add colours ev'n to the chamtlnn \
Change fliapes with Prrteus, for advantage. Siat.
One part devours the other, and leaves not fo
jnuch as a mouthful of that popular air, yrhich the
cbamtlatu gafp after.
Dtcaj ef P'uiy,
The thin chamUan, fed with air, receives
The colour of the thing to which he cleaves.
Drydtn.
As the chamtltm, which is known
To hive no colours of his own,
But borrows from his neighbour's hoe.
Tr'ur.
His white or black, his green or blue.
till (lender

to

make furrows or

in itfelf ;

may it large ftrctch out your difcourfe,

exprefs, that fuch eft'e£ts as are commonly attributed to chance, were verily produced by their true

Sptnjtr't Stall oflrtlani.

Of all theft bounds.
With (hadowy forefti and with cbamfairtts rich'd,
We make thee lady.
Siaktfftari,
If two bordering princes have their territory
meeting oa an open cbtmfaign, the more mighty
will cootinuiUy feek occalion to extend bis limits
Ra/cigb.
unto the further berder thereof.
Sir John Nofcis maintained a retreat without
difarray, by Che fpace of fame miles, part of the
way ebamfaien, unto the city of Gaunt, with Icf^
Bacon.
lofs of men than the «nemy.
From his (ije two riven flow'd,
Th' one winding, th' other ftraight, and left between
Fair champaign, with left rivers interven'd. Mihm.

Cha'mpertors. h. /. [from champerty.
Such as move fuits, or caufe
them to be moved, either by their own
or others procurement, and purfue, at
In law.]

gutters

upon a column.

their proper colb, to have part of the
land in conteilj or part of the gains.

Cha'mfbr. 1«. / [from To eiam/ir.]
Cha'mfret.J Afmall furrow or gutter
on a column.

Cha'mlet. B./, [See Cam BLOT.] Stuff

Ch A'.MPER.Ty. n. /.

To make a chamlct, draw five lines, waved overthwarc, if your diapering confilt of a double line.

An

odoriferous plant.

fuit,

while depending, upon condition
Cc-ive/I.

Champi'cnon. It./, [champignon, Fr.]

A kind of mulhroom.
He viler friends with doubtful mulhrooms treats,
Secure for you, lumklf cbampi^noms eats. Drydcn.
It has the refemblance of a large cbampignon be-"
fore it is opened, branching out into a large round

knob.

1

Dryden,

AU nature is but art, unknown to thee
All chance ditt&ion, which thoucanft not fee. Pop^.
Event; fuccefe; luck: applied to things.

4.

Now we'll together, and the chance of goodnefi
Be like our warranted quarrel
Sbakcfpeare,
5. Misfortune ; unlucky accident.

You were us'd
To fay extremity was the trier of fpirits.
That common chanctt common men could bear.
Sbaktfptare,

6. Poffibility of any occurrence.
chance, but chance may lead, where I may meet
Some wand'ring fpirit of heav'n, by fountain fide.

A

Or in thick (hade retir'd. Milton's Paradije LoJI.
Then your ladylhip might have a chance tq
efcape this addrefs.

Happening by chance.
Now (hould they part, malicious tongues would
woi

compofition.]
fay.

7*0

Chance.

!

At length the advei fe admirals appear.

The two bold chamfiom of each country's right.

is

Dryden.

A ^ero

2.

;

a ftout warriour ; one bold in

A Itouter champion never handled fword. Sbak.
This makes you incapoble of conviftion ; and

The fteedl caparifon'd with purple ftand.
And ibamf bvtwixt their teeth the foaming gold.

they applaud themfelves as zealous champions for
truth, when indeed they are contending for crrour.

UryiUn.

Lech.

To dcvouo with violent aAion of the
A tobacco pipe happened to break in my mouth,
and the pieces left fuch a delicious roughoefs on
my tottgiK, th^t I cbamftd up the remaining part.
Sfx^ator.

3.

In law.
In our common law, cbampitn is taken no lefs
for him that trieth the combat in his own cafe,
th.infor him that fighteth in the cale of another.
Cnuell.

To Cua'mpiOiN. t. a. [from the noun.]

?i Champ, v. u. To perform frequently

To challenge to the combat.

the ailicn of hiting.
Muttering and cJbamfirg, as though his cud bad
troubled him, he giwe occaliun to MuAdoris to
come near him.
SUnry.
The^ b"^an to repent of that they ha^ done, and
ircfully to cbamp upon the bit they had taken into
their mouths.
Jlovkcr.
His jaws did not anfwer e<}ually to one another;
but, by his frequent motion and cbamping with
them, it waj evident they were neither lusati-d nor
fratturrd.

H'lj.man.

Cha'mpaicn. n. /, [camfagne, i'tj] A
country.

The feed uf Baaquo kinga!
Rather than fo, come. Fate, into the lilt,

AfU chatHpicn me to th' utteian'ec.

Sbak^peare.

CHANCE. «./ [c/ja»cf, Fr]
I.

To

—

Fortunci the caufe of fortaltous events.
As th' unthought jtxidcnt is guilty
("0 wc protcfs

Of wh.it we wildly do,

Ourfdvcs ta be the flivw of cvancct and flics
Of every wiud chac blows.
Sbakcfp<are»

The only man, of all chat chance could bring

To meet my armsi was woith ibe con<|ueriiig.
DryJer,
Cbiinct Is but 1 mere name, and

brotlier

.»

,

Shakefpcare,

Ay, Cafca, tell us what hath chanc'd to-day.
That Csfar looks fo fad.
Shakcjptare,
He chanced upon divers of the Turks vl Auailers,

whom he eafily took.

Knolles's Hift. oftbeTurki,
and chanc'd to find
river's mouth impervious to the wind.

I chofe the fafer fea,

conteft.

At his command

[from the noun.]

to fall out ; to fortune.
Think what a chance thou cbanceft on ; but
think ;
Thou haft thy miftrefs fliU,
Shate/ptare,
How chance thou art not with the prince thy

Drydtn.

a little 4ime.

n.

<t/.

happen j

Thy father's cbampkn, and thy country's joy

Cofi'ee and opium are taken down, tobacco but

Swi/i,
[It is feldom ufed but in

Chance. as(/.

Dryden,

O light of Trojans, and fupport of Troy,

teeth.

is

fignifying

as

I would not take the gift.
Which, like a toy dropt from the hands of fortune.
Lay fo^ the next chance comer.
Dryden,

teeth.

flat open

not profanenefs, but a
no more, tlian that
there are fome events befides the knowledge and
power of fecond agents.
South.
The beauty 1 beheld has (truck me dead ;
(he
(Irikes,
and
kills
Unknowingly
by cbanct\
Poifon is in her eyes, and death in er'ry glance.
great truth \

A man who undertakes a caufe in ilngle

Strive here for maft'ry, and to battle bring
Mllton^x Faradije Ltft.
Their embryon atoms.

i. I'o bite with a frequent aflion of the

T.

To fay a thing is a chance or cafualty, as it relates to fecond caufes,

combat.
In many armies, the matter (hould be tried by

fierce,

To Champ, v. a. [champayer, Fr.]

*

fortui-

tous event.

They met like thanct companions on the way.

Bacon.
duel between two cbampions.
For hot, cold, moi(i, and dry, four ebamfions

PolTet drink with ^hamnmli flowers.
Fioyir on the Humours*

but cbair-ftd in the mouth
Bacon.
rcply'd
not,
The fiend
overxome with rage ;
But, like a proud deed reln'd, went haughty on,
Mi.'ion's farajji Loft'
stamping hii itoo curb.

cafual occurrence;

Accident;

CHA'MPION. »./. [champion, Fr. campio,

Frclh coi^maiy, atud breathful cbamc>/nUs,
Dull poppy, and drink quickening fetuak. Speyifer,
For though the cbamamili, the mure it is trodden
.«n the faftcr it grows ; yet youth, the more it is
•waled, the fooner it wears.
Staiejftare.

in fmoke, and betel

Bacon's EJfayt.

left to take their chance.

3.

fyoodtvard.

low Lat.]

Cool violets, and orpine growing ftill,
£nibathed balm, and cheerful galingale,

V^'ith

In

A maintenance of any man in his

covered.

Thefe are the bcail^ which you (hall cat ; the
ex, the (heep, and wild ox, and the chamoit.
Deuttronomy,
[p^a/xai^vAei'.]

[champart, Fr.

law.]

of the goat kind, whofe ikin is made into
foft leather, called among aijbammy,

n. /.

tune may bring : applied to perfons.
Thefe things arc commonly not obferved, but

to have part of the thing when it is re-

•

Cha'mOMILE.

and proper caufes, but without their delign to pro*
Bentley,
duce them.
t. Fortune ; the aft of fortune ; what for-

I

Cotuell.

made originally of camel'* hair.
Peacham on -Draivin^,
Cha'mois.w. yi [chamois, Fr.] An animal

1 conception of our mindt, tnj only i
compendious way of fpeaking, whereby we would

In the abufes of the cuftoms, mereemi, you have
t fair ibamfj:gi laid open to ynu, in which you

To ChA'mfer. V, a. [thambrer, Fr.] To
channel ;

C H A

C H A

really nuthint>

A

Pop,', Odylfy,

Ch a'k c e f u l adj. [chanct iXL^full.'] Ha.

zardous.

Out of ufe.

Myfelf would o(Jcr you t' accompany
In this advent'rous cbanccful 'jiroyitiy ,

Sptnjcr,

Chance-medley, a./ [itom chanct aaA
In law.
Tbe cafual (laughter of a man, not altogether

medley.']

without the fault of the flayer, when ignorance or
negligence is joined with the chance; as if a man
lop trees by an highw.iy-fide, by which many
ufually travel, and ca(( down a bough, not giving
warning to take heed thereof, by wh,t.^ bough one
in this cafe be o(}'euds, beciufe
pairing by is (lain
he gave no warning, that the party might have
taken beeJ to hirofelf.
Cnvett,
If fuch an one Ihould have the ill hap, at any
ftrlke
dead
time, to
a man
with a fniart laying, it
ought, in all reafon and conlcience, to be judged
but a chance-medley.
South,
:

Ch a'nceablb. a<^'. [hoxa chance.

'\

Ac-

cidciital.

The trial thereof was cut o(r by the chanceahlt
coaling tbitlicr of the king of Iberia.
Sidney,

CHA'NCEL.

CHA'NCEL. «. /.

[from eatitelU, Lat.
lattices, with which the chancel was inclofed.] The eaftern part of the church,
in which the altar is placed.
Whetlier it be allowable or no, that the minifter
Hocktr.

ihould fay fervite in the chancel,

The ctaticci of this church Is vaulted with a
fingle ftonc of four feet in thicknefs, and an hun-

dred and tburteen in circumference.

Aid'fm on July.
Lat.

Cha'ncellor. n. /.
chancsllier,

Fr.

[^caitcellarius,

from cancellare,

literal

•vel Jcriptum lined per medium duBd

dam-

nare ; and feemeth of itfelf likewife to
be derived a cancellis, which fignify all
©ne with xiyx^iJi;, a lattice ; that is, a
thing made of wood or iron bars, laid
croflways one over another, fo that a

man may fee through them in and out.
It may be thought thit judgment feats
were compafFed in with bars, to defend
the judges and other officers from the
prefs of the mtJtitude, and yet not to
hinder any man's view.

fands, TOi'/i

years.

1. The hi ghefl judge of the law.

ter,

and other military orders,

who

officer

feals

is

an

Ch a'kcellorship.

n. f.

be fignifi.d

IVijcmun.

have relapled with a chancre.

Hav-

chancre.'\

ing the qualitisdof achantre ; ulcerous.
Vou may tliink 1 am loo ftridt in giving fo
many internals in the cure of "fo fmall an ulcer as
a chancre, or ratlicr a chancroui callus.

artifan whofe trade it is to make catidles,

am weary of this moon

;

would he wculd
Shakijj.earc.

ch'i'ige.

A

2.

Still varyirg to tlie laft

Dryden,
Nothing can cure this part of ill-hreeiing, but
charge and variety of company, and that of p iljna

While thy abandon'd tribes (hall only knuw

The

A dift"rpnt maftcr, and a chrrge of lime.
1

While, at eacii change, the f\in of L-bj in Jove
Now burns with glory, :iid then melts with love.
Pope,
3.

thrm often ;

di.itcly after the cht^ngc, and others of the i'ame
kind immediately after the full.
Bacon's Natural Hijt'.ry.

for

new are move timorous, and lels

4.

Bacon i EJuys.

fubiile.

To quit any thing for the fake of another
withyw before the thing taken
or received.

2.

nue, and in matters of firfl fruits. The
court of equity is in the exchequer
chamber, and it held before the lord
Ireafurer, chancellor, and barons, ?.s that
of common law before the barons only.

And kifs the tips of unacquainted charge, Shdhip,
Our fathers did, for change, to France repair;

And they, for change, will try our Eng'.Kh air.
DiyJcn.
5. [In ringing.]

South.
The French and we (liU change ; but here's the

both.

Fourbellj admit twenty-four cbaKges'm ringing,
and ijvc bells one hundic and twenty,
IhJderU Eiemejtts of fpeech.
Eafy it may be to contrive new polVres, and
ring other changct upon the fame bells.
Norri:,

They change for hMts, and we change for work.

1

D'-yden.

Oxford

To give and take reciprocally with
the particle •with before the perfon to

holds his office during life, but at Cam-

whom we give, and from whom wc take.

3.

An alteration of the or-

der in which a fet of bells is feunded.

curfe.

Coiutll. Chatnbers.

Kovelty ; a flate different from the iormer.
The heart?

Of all his people (hall revolt fiom him.

:

Pcrfons grown up in the belief of any religion,
cannot change that /'.•- another, without applying
their undcrlUnding duly to coufider and compare

The time of the moon in which it begins a new monthly revolution.
Take fecdi nrroots, and fet fomc of them imme-.

To put one thing in the place of anHe that cannot lock into his own*e(late, had
need cho3fc well whom he employeth, and ctarge

and in tht'

Prior*

Kenr how Timothcus' vavii.<us h\^ furpiize.
And bid ulte:-natc pnlTions I'all and tife

other.

An

Locke.
^

Einp'ics by various turns fliall rife and I'et

Lat.]
1.

!

abo\e U5.

Gay.

To CH.4NGE. -v. a. [changer, Fr. cambia,

A dig-

There is a chtmge upon you.
Sh'akejpeart,
fucceflion of one thing in the place of

another.
O wondVons changes of a fatal fccnc.

Farrier's DiSl.

his nofe.

authority in managing the royal reve-

Vol. I.

X

The ctand/er'% balket, on his Ihfiuldcr kirn,

He has power, with

at

new monthly revolution.

or a perfon who fells the.m.

extends from under the ears, along the
interval between the eyebrows, down to

who

One Julia, that his changmg^.^sx'^X forgot,
Would oettcr fit his chamber.
Shakefpeatr.
2. To change, as the moon ; to begin a

Since 1 faw you laft,

the civil and canon law, to dirctl ihc
biihops in matters of judgment, relating
as well to criminal as to civil affairs in
Jylijje's Purergan.
the chutch.

Chancellor 0/ an Univer/itj. The

Farrier's Didt,

branch for candles.

forepart of the head cf a horfe, which

penal llatutes, bonds and recognizances
entered into by the king. He has great

Siuift,

To change a horfe, or to change hand, is to
turn or bear the horfe's head from one
hajid to the other, from the left to the
rig"lit, or from the right to the left.

Ch a'ndler. ». y; [chandelier, ¥r.} An

a man trained up in

magiftrate,

woi th of goods.
7.

IV.Jcinan.

Chancellor in the EcclefiafAcal Court. CHJ'NFRIN. n. /. [old French.]

principal

into feveral fmaller.
A Ihopkecper might be able to ciange a ^juinea,
or a moidore, when a cuftomcr comes for a crown's

Chance, n.f. [from the verb.]
Ch andeli'er. ».y". [chandelier, Fr.] A 1. An alteration of the flateofany thing.

others, to compound for forfeitures on

5.

Shateffeart^

To dlfcount a larger piece of money

6.

;

"With tallaw fpui5 thy coat.

exchequer chamber.

.

would flie were in heaven, fo (he could
Intreat fame pow'r to charge this c'uiriih Jew.
I

To Chance, 'v. n.
CHA'NCRE. n.f. [chancre, Fr.] An ulcer 1 To undergo change to fuffer alterati6i\.: as, his fortUiie may foon change,
ufaaliy arifiog from venei'LMl maladie?.
though he is now fo fecure.
It is poflible he was not wdl cutcd, and would

forms, of their government; fo that he was, in a
manner, fi<iirr(//ar of Athens.
Sivifi,

ofiicer who fits in that court,

IVtjdoTn.

To mend the difpofition or mind.

5.

in the court of chancery, by the bi-

AriftiJcs was a pcrfon of the ftrifleil jmiice,
ard belt' act^uainted with the laws, as Avcil as

4. Chancellor cf the Exchequer.

name of the tune, and yet are afways

Ayliffci Parergm.

But this

nitary whofe office it is to fuperintend
the regular exercife of devotion.

^

fljop's letters under the feal ^piicopal.

The faik that thou hall drankcn me, would
have bought me lights as good cheap at the deaie^
chandkrt in Europe.
Shake'peare
But whether black or lighter d;.es are wurn.

CH\ticzh\,ovi of a Cathedral.

change die
founds.

Coivell.

great fcal.

Dryden jiitt,

3.

.

Camden.

bably chancellerj, then fhortencd.] The
court of equity and confcience, moderating the rigour of other courts, that
are tied to the letter of the law ; whereof the lord chancellor of England is the
chief judge, or the lord keeper of the

.'

;

is not eafily daunted.
Sbahff*
Whatfoever is broujjht upon thee, take chearfuiiy, and be patient when thou art chang.d to a
Ecchii,
low cftate.
For the elements were changed in themlelves by
a kind of harmony; like as in a pfaltery notes

Cha'ncexy. K.f. [from chancdkr; pro-

!

A bilbop's lawyer

A heart unfj-otted

and ulcd die ufu-.l wotd3 of his gentl,-man-ulher.

Cha'kcrous. adj. [from

nsnie 15 greatly advanced, and, not only in other
kingdoms but in th:s, is given to him that U the
chief judge in caufes of property j f jr the chaneel/or hath power to njoderite and temper tile
written law, and fubjefteth himfelf only to the law
Ctrtvtil.
of nature and confcience.
Turn out, you rogue how like a bcaft you lie
the
law.
Is
Co, buckle to
this an licur
To ftretch your limbs you'll ne'er be chancrllor.

to make other than it was.

Nor change my countenance for this arreft ;

Chamlcrs.

Madam, my lord is gone.

;

condition.

Rule of L'.-ving Hry.

Thou (halt not fee me blulh.

The oScc of

chancellor.
The Sunday after Mrre g.ivc up VMchar. t'hrjl:p
of EngLnd, he came hirrlcif to his wile's pew,

To alter

4.

the comraiiTioBs and

der tne fc a! of the order.

QirccH^riu:, at the firil, fignilicd the regifterj or

2.

Taflor''!

mandates of the chapter and affembly of
the knights, keeps the regifter of their
deliberations, and deliver^ tneir afts un-

actuaries in court 5 gtafbarhitJttU qui corJcriberdU

,

tereft, change thy fortune and

Chancellor cfthe Order of the Gar-

6.

The contumacy and contempt of the party muft

Primus Jolliciti mente pclendus erit.
Hie ejl, qui regni leges cancellat iniquas,
Et mandata pii principis a-quafacil.
Verfes of Nigel de IVetekre to the
bifliop of Ely, chancellor to
Richard!.]

excifieriifis judicum aSlit dtint operant*

To fecure thy content, look upcn thof: thoawhom thou wouldft not, for any in-

may be elefled every three

bridge he

^afitus regni tibi cancellarius Angli,

^

C H A

C H A

C H A

:

6.

That which makes a variety

;

that which

maybe ufedfor aiiother of ihe famcl:ind.
i'

P

J wiU

C H A
I w'tU now put forth a riddle unto yoa; if you
can find it out, then 1 w!ll give you thirty (her ts,
and thirty cbtngt of garments.
Judgei.

Of hurly-burly innovation.

Wood buys up our old halfpence, and from

tient.

8.

4.

1

Subfcrib'd it, gave the imprefiion, plac'd it fafely,

The changeling never known.
Sbakejfvare.
Cha'nckr. n. /. [from change.] One
that is employed in changing or difcounting money ; money-changer.

pulpits, are full of quacks, jugglers, and plagiaries.

CHA'NNEL «./

CHKUGZhaut. aJj. [hom change.

"l

fickle; inconilant.
Ready mind will admit fteady methods and
COunfcls ; there Is no meafure to be taken of a
ctfrgraili humour.
UEJIratigc.
As I am a man, I muft be cbatigtaUt j and fometimes the graved of us all an: fo, even upon ridicu-

Spenfer^s State if Ireland.

Into the channel, till the loweft dream
Do klfs the niort exalted (horesofall. Sbakeffxare.
So th' inj ur'd lea, which from h:r wonted coutfc,
Tn gain fome acres, .-ivarice did force;
If the new banks, neglefled once, decay,
No longer will from her old channel (lay. Waller.
Had not the faid dtata been diflocated, fome of
them elevated, and others deprelTed, there would
have been no cavity or channel to give reception to
the water of the fea.
fTooJtvard.

Drydcr..

The fibrous or vafcular parts of vegetables feem
ArhvtbnotcnArimmti.

Having the quality of exhibiting different appearances.
Nova' the taylor make thy doublet of changrebic
for thy mind is a very ops!.

Ch a'nceableness. n.

jf.

Sbakejptart.

[from change-

Inconrtancy ; ficklenefs.
At length he betrothed himfclf to one wortliy
to be liked, if any worthinefs

might cxcufe

If how long they are to continue in force, be no

tability of

them, but confideiing the natuie and

Xiuality of fuch laws.

they fell.
3.

Dryden't Fables.

A ftrait or narrow fea, between two

led, like a thick plaited gown, ff^atton's jirchileffure.

Torrents, and loud impetuous catara&s,
Roll down the lofty mountain's channel!' ddia.
And to the vale convey their foaming tides.
Blackmore.

Wherein the chearful birds of fundry kind

Do chant fweet mufick.
Fairy ^etn.
2. To celebrate by fong.
The poets chant it in the theatres, the Ihephcrds

from an odd

fuperftitious

3.

llupid in their places.]

A child left or taken in tbe place of an-

t .

other.

And her bife elfin breed there for thee left!
Such men do changeii/igt oil, fo chang'd by fairies
Sfenfcr'x Fairy S^ueen.
She, as her attendant, hath
ioTcly boy ftul'n from an Indian king
Shr never had fo fweet a changeling, Skakiffture.
theft.

A

An idiot

2.

;

Cbangilmgi and fools of heav'n, and tlience fliut

Wildly we roam in difcontent about.
Dryden.
Would any one be a cbangeiing, bccaufc he is
ieh determined by wife conliderations tlian a wife

One apt to change J a wave^cr.

guifhed.
within, whatever order and light there be in things
Locke,
without us.
Pleas'd with a work, where nothing's jud or fit.
Pope.
One glaring chaoi and wild heap of wit.

Chao'tick. adj. [horn chaos.]

When the terraqueous globe was in a chaotick
ftate,

lody with the voice.
They chant to the found of the viol, and invent

the earth.

.

;

to therafclves inllruments of mufick.

Amoi, vs. 7.
Heav'n heard his fong, and haften'd his relief j
And chang'd to fnowy plumes his hoary hair.
And wing'd his flight, to chant aloft in air. Dryd.

Chant, n./. [from the verb.]

Song;

A pleafant grove,

Locke.

Of fickle cbangelingi and poor difcontentsy
2

Ch a'nter. »./. [from chant.] A finger
a fongfter.
You curious chanters of the wood.
That warble forth dame Nature's lays.

and the earthy particles fubfided, then thofe

feveral beds were, in all probability, repofitcd

;

hiatus, or gapings.
It weakened more and more the arch of the
earth, drying it immoderately, and ctafifing it
in fuodry places.

tyctton.

Jove's ctherial lays, refiftlefs fire.

The chanttr't foul and raptur'd fong isfp'ir^

in

Derbam.

To CHAP. -v. a. [kappen, Dutch, to cut.
This word feems originally the fame
with chop; nor were they probably diftinguifhed at firft, otherwife than by acbut they have now a meaning
cident
fomething different, though referable to
the fame original fenfe.] To break into
.

;

Refem-

bling chaos ; confufed.

With r/mnrof tuneful birds refoundingloud. Milton.

out,

3.

Dry den,
3. Any thing where the parts are undiiiin-

To fing in the cathedral fervice.
«. To fing
to make me-

To Chant, f

Bevtiey.

Confufion ; irregular mixture.
Had I followed the word, I could not have
brought church and ftate to fuch a chaos of confuK. Charles.
fions, as Ibme have done.
Their reafon deeps, but mimick fancy wakes.
Supplies her parts, and wild ideas takes
From words and things, ill fnrted and misjoin'd ;
The anarchy of thought, and chaas of the mind.

Bramhall.

melody.

a fool ; a natural.

Iran f

in the mountains.

was divided by the
and ele>

We Ihall have nothing but darknefs and a ehaot

Now calls in princes, and now turns away. Po^e*
arifes

2.

To fing.

Cha'ncelikc. tt.f, [from change: the
word

it

ments.
The v»h )le uniaerfe would have been a confufed

To CHANT, -v. a. [chanter, Fr.]
1.

opinion, that the fairies fteal away children, and put others that are ugly and

confufion before

creation into its' proper dafles

Of hoftilc paces.
Shakeffnare.
The body of this column is perpetually channel-

Full of change ; inconftant ; uncertain ;
mutable ; fubjeft to variation ; fickle.
Unfound |ilocs, and cbavgtfut orders, are daily

Sbak,

CHA'OS. n. /. [chaos, Lat. x«®--]
1. The mafs of matter fuppofed to be in

No more (hall trenching vox channel her fields.

Cka'ngeful. aifj. [from change ^X[A full.']

Britain, changeful as a child at play.

Into the chantry by ;
And, underneath that confecrateJ roof.
Plight me the full afTurance of your faith.

Nor limife her flowrcts with the armed hoofs

Inconftantly.

C(/welU

_

Now go with me, and with this holy man,

chaos, without be.;uty or order.

vuCha'nnel. "v. a. [from the noun.]
To cut any thing in-channels.

Miltcn.

fouls of the donors, and fuch otiiers as they ap-

point.

Channel, between Britain and Ireland.
4. A gutter or furrow of a pillar.

Cha'ngeablv. adv. [from changeaile.]

woo to hear thy even-fong.

Chantry is a church or chapel endowed with
lands, or other yearly revenue, for the maintenance
of one or more priefts, daily to fing mafs for th*

countries : as the Britilh Channel, between Britain and France ; St. George's

Hooker.

dcvifed for her good, yet never efte£lually profecuted.
Sfnjir,

1

Cha'ntry. n. /. [irota chant.]

Complaint and hot defircs, the lover's hell.

And fcalding tears, that wore a channel where

Addifin's Frtthelder.

where ezprefled, then have we no light to direct our
judgment concerning the ckangeabienji or immu-

Sweet bird, that Ihunn'll the noife of folly,

Moft muflcal, mod melancholy!
Thee, cbantrefs of the woods among,

Any cavity drawn longways.

2.

juftly branded by all our neighbours.

2. Sufceptibility of ch^ge.

A

man finger.

nually walhed down by the rains, and the channels
of rivers abraded by the Itreams.
Bcniley,

fo

unworthy a cbargtablertji.
Sidney.
There is no temper of mind more unmanly
than that cbanguhttntf!, with which we arc too

Camden's Remains*
Reynard the fox.
Within this homeftead liv'd without a peer.
For crowing loud, the noble cbantieletr,
Drjdent Fables.
Cha'ntress. «./ [from chant.]
wo-

The tops '.f mountains and hills will be conti-

able.]
1

when Chanticleer the cock was carried away by

The hollow bed of running waters.

Draw them to Tyber's bank, and weep your tears

fcarce changeatU in the alimenciry du^.

tatfcta ;

In haAewas dimb'ng up the eallcrn hill. Sfenfer,
Hark, hark, 1 hear
The ftrainof ftruttingf/>flrrr.7*.r.
Shakeffcare.
Stay, the chearful chanticleer
Tells you that the time it neir. Benjenfon.
Thefe verfea were mentioned by Chaucer, in
the defcription of the fudden flir, and panical fear,

canalit,

an habit, and have their certain courfe, to change
the channel, and turn their ftreams another way.

2. PofCble to be changed.

1

Ft.

[canal.

It is not fo eafy, now that things are grown into

A

lous accidents.

And chearful chanticleer, with his note flirill.
Had warned once, that I'htebus' fiery car

Lat.]
1.

Subjed to change ;

1.

crow.

folded the writ up in form of the other,

Swift.
;

Fr.] The nam? given to the cock,
from the dearnefs and loudnefs of his
clair,

Any thing changed and put in the place

a place where
perfons meet to trafiick and tranfad
mercantile affairs.
The bar, the bench, the cbtngt, the fchools and

Change for exchange

Ptfe.

Ch a'nticleer. n. /. [from fi&<»ff/«- and

of another : in ludicrous fpeech.

L^Efirange>

3.

!

Sbtkrfftari.

'Twas not long
Before from world to world they fwung
As they had turn'd from fide to fide.
And as they ibangelwgi liv'd, they died. HucTiirar.

larger pieces.
thence the prefeot want of chengt arifes ; bilt fuppofing not one faithing of change in the nation,
five-and-twenty thoufand pounds would be fufli-

laftinA divine nor UanM fevere hit choice,
Warbling the Grecian woes with harp and voice.

That gape and rub the elbow at the newt

Small money, which may be given for

7.

C H A

C H A

Burnet.

Then would unbalanc'd heat licentious reign.
Crack the dry hilli and (baf the ruffet plain.
Blackmore.

Chat*

C H A

C H A

C H A
an aperture ; an opening ; a gaping ; a
chink.
Whit moiftura- the heat of the fummer fucks
'

out of the earth, it is repaid \a the rains of the
next winter ; and ' hit rifl/i arc made in it, are
filled

Shakijpeare,

ChapUin, away

Chap. »./ [This is

fliip.

A chief governour can never fail of fomcworth-

cept by anatorailb, in zhtfrignlar.} The
upper or under part of a beaft's mouth.

Dryilen.

The nether rtaf> in the male (kcleton is ha f an
inch broader than in th? female. Grrai'i Mujaum.

CHAPE, n. f. [chafpe, Fr.]
The catch of any thing by which

1.

lefs illiterate

in

the point

its

place ;

is

A brafs

Is, as in

to the end of the

mockery, fct.

.

Thofe that their miftrcfs' fcorn did bear.

SMUng.
Vryden.

A firing of beads ufed in the Romilh
church for keeping an account of the
number rehearfed of
ave-mari.-is.
is

3.

a chape.

An old nifty fword, with a broken h'lt, and
Sbahe(ptart*

Chape'llany. »./ [itom chapel.
A cbapdlany is uflially faid to be that which
"[

does not f^bfift of itfelf, but is built and founded
within fame other church, and is dependent there-

on.

Att'tfft^i

The

jurifdiflion or bounds of a chapel.

CHA'PERON. n.f. [French.] A kind of

5.

upper part or capital of a pillar.
He overlaid their cbapiteri ?nd their fillets with
Ex'^elui.

Cha'plajk. »./ [capellanus, Latin.]
I.

He that performs divine fervicc in a
chapel, and attends the king, or other
perfon, fcr the inllrudion of him and
his family, to read prayers,

and preach.
•

CoivelL

A tuft of feathers on the peacock's head.

the place in which affemblies of the clergy are held.

nun of fuch wires.

JVotiin.

He dicC'cd t\vo, and carried them to Samos, as
the likelicd place for a chapman,

Aybffe's Parer/ron.

Cha'ptrel. n. f. [probably from chapiter.] The capitals of pillars, or pilafters, which fupport arches, commpnly
called imports.
Let the kcy(!oi.- break without the arch, fo

much as you pvojcdt over the jaums with the ebapMcxon*

trels,

Char. n.f. [of uncertain derivation.]

L'EJIratigt.

Their cbapmen they betray.
Their (hops arc dens, the buyer i» their prey. Dryd,
Chaps, n.f. [from chap.]

The mouth of a beall of prey.
So on the downs wc fee

A haften'd hare from greedy greyhound go.
And part all hope, his ebapi to fruftratc fo. Sidney.
Open your mouth ; you cannot tell who's your
Shukejpeari,
friend j open your cbafi a^ain.

A

found only in Winander meer; in
Lancafhire.
To Cu AK.. 1/. a. [See Charcoal.] To
burn wood to a black cinder.
fifh

in

charring,

p.\rts

cracks.

into

various
ffoodieard,

CHAR. //./. [c>Tine» work. Sax. L)r. It
is derived

Ben yoTjUn,
There was a colIeSion of certain rare manufcripts, exquiiitcly written in Arabick ; thefe were
upon fale Co the Jefuita at Antwerp, liquorlih (bap-

I.

AylifVs Parergon.

6. Chapter-houfe ;

Spraywood,

And undcrfhnd 'cm as moll cbapmen do.

The

A decretal epiftle.

ehapler-heufc.

A

couple of ftir[In horfemanfhip.]
rup leathers, mounted each of them
with a llirrup, and joining at top in a
fort of leather buckle, which is called
the head of the cbaplet, by which they
are faflened to the pummel of a faddle,
after they have been adjuflcd to the
length and bearing of the rider.

too.

Drjdtit.

Fr.]

Ayliffe^s Parer.

cipline and correftion.
5.

Thougii the canonical conftituticn does ftriflly

Sbah.
Yet have they feen the maps, and bought 'cm

A cbaffaln bgaver loofely hanging b]r

The place where delinquents receive dif-

require it to be made in the cathedral, yet it m.itters not where it be made, cither' in the choir or

pearls,

Fair Diomcde, you do as (bapmen do,
Difprnlfe the thing that you intend to buy.

Having the mouth ihrunk.

4.

or

beads,

cheapner ; one that offers as a purchafer.

I will omit the honourable habiliments, as robes
of Rate, parliimf nt robes, ebtptnni, and caps of
ftate*
Camden,
Cha'pfaln. adj. [from chap andy^//7.]

The cloven helm.

chapter, before he enters on any matters of importance.
^ Addifin on Italy,

A little moulding

Cha'pman. 7t. f. [ceapman, Saxon.] A

garter in their habits.

g*^d.

[In architefture.]
carved into round

Farrier'' 1 Dill.

hood or cap worn by the knights of the

Cha*piT£R. n. f. [chapiteau,

A different (oil q( chaplets

alfo ufed by the Mahometans.

Vartrron.

Cha'pelry. n. /. [from chapel.^

and

olives.
4.

'Cnfi.'9t.u.t», aJJ, [from <baft,'\ Wanting

€bapetffi, with two broken points.

paternofters

Coiuell.

The abbot takes the advice and confent of his

5toi7>.

2.

Chapter, from capituhm, fignifieth, in
our common law, as in the canon law,
whence it is borrowed, an affembly of
the clergy of a cathedral or collegiate
church.

Vryden,

founded by the king
Ay'.iffei Pan-rgoit.

3.

The winding ivy cbapitt to invade.
And folded fern, that your fair forehead fliade.

AthiptlviWMbaWi witli large endowment. Dryil,
is

Money does all things ; for it gives and it takes
away, it makes honeit men and knaves, fools andphilofophers ; and fo forward, mutatis mutjjtdis, to
VEjirangr.
m
the erd cf the chapkr.

Shakifpiari.

Or thofe that were us'd kindly.

chapter ; throughtiut; to

the end.

Whether th<y nobler cbapUlt wear,

Will yon difpatcl^us here under this tree, or
your cbapdT Zbaktfpearc*
Where tru:h erefleth her church, he helps crrour

A free chafcl is fuch as

2. From hence comes the proverbial phrafe,

I ftrangely long to know.

JhatI wc go with you to

of England.

c;remonies, I will undertake to produce fcripcurn
Soutb,
enf^ugh to warrant them.

An od'rous cbapUt of fwect fummer's buds.

S'idtuy.

Honvrt.

r.

mighty men at cbapter and verfe, can
produce then no fcripturc to overthrow our church

Upon old Hyems' chin, and icy crown.

They made an humble cbaplet for the king.

to^rtar up a chaptl hard by.

book.
The (irft book we divide into three feftions ;

whereof the firft is thefe three chaptcri.

[chapeltt, Fr.]

curat;, provided for at the charge of the reflor, or
of fuch as have beoelic by it, as the compofition or

"^

A divifion of

BumiCi Theory,

All the quire was grac'd
With cbeplcli green, upon their foreheads plac'd.

fcU

tulum, Lat.]

If thefe

the head.

;

CovjelK

Dryden'i Fablei.

(kins they laid.

church, at a parcel of the fame, which men of
worth build ; or elfe feparate from the mother
church, where the parift is wide, and is commonly
called a ctapcl o( e.'fe, becaufe it is built fur the
eafe of one or more pariOiioners, that dwell too f.ir
from the church, and is ferved by fomc infcriour

She went in among thofe few trees, fo clofcd in
the cof s together, as they might feem a little cha-

upon which you may run your

Cha'pter. n.f. [chapitre, Fr. from capi-

A garland or wreath to be worn about

1

Shakifpun.
cafe, that

cuftt^m is.

table

*

Sbaiifpiare,

Cha'plet. n.f.

CHA'PEL. »./. [capella, Lat.]
A cbaftl of two forts either adjoining to a
is

a

Bin Junjir!.
Cooling ointment made,
and
their fid^r
cheeks
on
fun-burnt
their
Which

Shakcjpeari-

held to

[from T»

chapl.

With reeky Ihanks and yeliow cbaplifs bones.

Phillifs's World of fVords.

fword

Like

Shut me nightly in a charnel-houfc.

or filver tip or
ftrengthens the end of the fcabbard of a

2.

paff.

/ingSr without rubs, and your nail cannot find
a joint J not horrid, rough, wrinkled, gaping, or

1.

witli a feiton's fpade.

\ payticip.
chap.\

Cha'pped. 3

Now chapUJs, and knocked about the muzzard

theory of the wir in the knot of his fcarf, and
..the praftice in the (hape of his dagger.

Chapt.

Without

Cha'pi.ess. adj. [from ckapJ]
any flelh about the mouth.

it is

the back (Irap.
This is Monfieur Parollcs, that had the whole

And long tb temper their dry chapi in blood. Dryd2. It is ufed in contempt for the mouth of
a man.

Swift.

Cha'plainship. n.f. [from chaplarn.']
The office or bufinefs of a chaplain.
1
2. The pofleflion or revenue of a chapel.

as

by which a buckle

chaplain, fond of a title and p'cce-

dence.

the hook of a
fcabbard by which it flicks in the belt

held

thy priefthood faves thy life.

One that officiates in domeltick wor-

2.

not often ufed, ex-

Froth fills his cbafs, he fends a grunting faund,
vAnd part he chums, and part befoams the ground.

!

Sbakefpeare,

Bunet'i Tbeory.

up again.

Tlieir whelps at home expert the promis'd food,

'
Wi/hing me to permit
John de la Court, my chaplain^ a choice hour,
To hear from him a matter of fome moment.

Chat. ». /. [from the verb.] A cleft;

Fr.

by Skinner, either from charge,

bufinefs ; or cape.

Sax. care ; or

Dutch, to fweep.] Work dons
by t,he day ; a fingle job or tafk.

keeren,

A meer woman, and commanded
By fuch poor palTion, as the maid that milks,
And does the mcane(t chars,

Shakejpeare*
She, har\'eft done, to char work did afpire ;

Meat, drink, and twopence, were her daily hire.
Dryden,^

To Char, v, «. [from the noun.] To
work at others houfes by the day, without being a hired fervant.

Cha'r-woman. n. f, [from thar and
•woman.] A woman hired accidentally
for odd works, or fingle days.
P P »

•

Get

Get three or four {bjr-wtmtn ti
in the

CHA'RACTER. ». /

[charaSir,

cbarafftriflical.']

Lat.

Xa^-a.Tif.]
marlf,; a. (lamp ; a reprefentacion.
t.
In outward alio her refembling Ids
Hit image, who made both j and lefs exprelTing
The ihjrjUer of" that dominion giv'n
Puraiifi LcJIO'er other creatures>

A

tain

Ctntfis.
vi'uh them, and he fcrved them.
What you have charged me luilb, that I have

The quality of being

peculiar to a charafter; marking a charafter.

Char ACTERi'sTicK. »./. That which

done.

the debtor.

that which
dillinguifhes any thing or perfon from

My father's, mother's, brother's death I pardon
ofjmurder.
That "s fomcwhat fure ; a mighty fura UMll
II

Of innocent and kindred blood ftruck on:

others.
Thisvaft invention exerts itfelf in H9mer, in a
manner fuperiour to that of any poet it is the
great and peculiar charaBeriJIUk which diftinguiihes
Pofr.
him from all others.

My prayers and penance (hall difcount for thefe,
And beg of Heav'n to riar^e^hc bill on me. Drfd,
To impute : with on before the perfon
to whom any thing is imputed.

;

But his neat cookery

!

He eat o ir roots in ctarallrrt.

StaUfftart.

The purpnfe is perfpicuous, even as fubilance
Whofe groflncrs little charadirt fum up. Skateff.
It were much to be wiflied, that there were
throughout the world but one fort of chamber for
each letter, to exprefs it to the eye ; and that exaft;y proportioned t» the natural alphabet formed
HcliUr's Eiemtnrs af Sfetcl;
in the mouth.

Char ACT ERi'sTiCK

the perfonal qualities of any man.
It is fonic commendation that we have avoided

thrown in at the cafement of
roy clofet.— You know the chfiraStr to be your

A rcprcfentaticn of any man as to his

4.

publickly to tbaraUer'tTU any perfoo, wirfiout long
Swift.
experience.

Shaliffart.

perlonal qualities.
Each dr. w tVir (haraEitrs, yet none
Of thefe they feign'd excels their own.

To engrave, or imprint.

2.

They nMy be called anticipations, prenotions,
or fentiments cla^-ccliriztd and engraven in the
foul, born with it, and

Dnham.

Homer has excelled all tic heroick poets that
ever wro:e, in the multitude and variety of his
ekoraSttri ; every god that is admitted into his
poem, aAs a part which would have been fuit-

»Me to no other deity.

/Uilifon.

5. An account of any thing as good or bad.
Ths fubtcrraneous paflage is m-jch mended,
CiKe Seneca gave fo bad a (barafler of it.
AM'fiiii on Italy.

The perfon with his affemblage of qua-

6.

lities

;

a perfonage.

In a tragedy, or epick poem, the hero of the
piece mud be advanced foremoft to the view of
the reader or fpeftator ; he rauft outfliine the reft
of all the charaHer:; he mud appear the prince of
them", like th« fun in the Copetnican fyftcra, enDrydcn.
compalTeJ witli the lefs noble planets.

Perfonal qualities ; particular conftitution of the mind.
Nothing fo true as what you once let fall,
Pnfe.
Mqft women have no charjtliri at all.
8. Adventitious qualities impreffed by a

"J.

pod or office.
The chief honour of the jnagi (Irate confifts in
maintaining the dignity of his charaBcr by fuitable
AlUrbury.
anions.
y'e Cha'racter. v. a. [from the noun.]

To infcribe

to engrave.

;

It feems to

have had the accent formerly on the
fecond fyllable.
Th;ft frw precepts in thy memory
Stalejfearr.
See thou iharaffcr.
Shew mc one fear ch.ira£ier*d on thy Tttin. Sbak,
O Rofalind thefe trees fhall be my books.
And In their barks ray thoughts I'll ebjr.iFJer,
I

Sbaitjptare,

The pleafing pnifoo

Fixes inftead, unmouUlng reafon's mintage,

Charadtrd in the face.

Ch AR ACTERi'sTiCAL.
raScrize.']

Afittcn.

aJj.

That which

[from fha-

conllitutes the

charafter, or marks the peculiar properties, of any perfon or thing.
There are fcveral others that 1 take to have
l'.ta likcwife f;ich, to which yet ] have not vtniJteJ to prefix that charaBinJIual JilVinaion.
ff^e^tizvarti on FtJpJt.

TW QilDiag<]u*lit<^ of an epick

are faces not only individual, but genand national j European, Afiatick, Chinefe, African, and Grecian faces are charaflirized.

jlrhurhnot on Air.

Ch a'racterless.o.^". [from tbaraSer.']
Without a charafter.
Whin water-drops have worn the ftones of Troy,
And blind oblivion fwallow'd cities up,
And mighty ftates cberalitrlcfi are grated

Cha'racterv.

We charge that vpun neceflity, wliich was really
H^aits's Logkkt

defired and chofen.

To impute to, as coft or hazard.

4.

He was fo great an encouragcr of commerce,
that hcciar^fiihimfelfwlth all the fea rifle of fuch
velTels as carried corn to Rome in winter.

Arhuihnot on Cains.
:

it has

w//A be-

fore the thing impofed.
The g'lfpel chargeth us with piety towards God,
and juftice and charity to men, and temperance
Tillotfin.
and chaftity in reference to ourfelves.
accufe ; to cenfure.
6.
Speaking thus to you, 1 am fo far from charging
you as guilty in this matter, that I can fincerely

To

Shakefpeari.

n. /.

To impofe as a tafk

5.

[from charaSer.']

fay, 1 believe the exhortation wholly needlefs.

ffake's Prifarathn for Death.

Impreflion; mark; diftinflion: accented
anciently on the fecond fyllable.

7.

To accufe: it has <with before the crime.

Fairies ufc flowers for their cbaraHtry. Sbahffi.
All my engagements I will conftruc to thee.

8.

To challenge.

And his angels he charged tvitb folly.

Shal:fftart.
All the rharailery of my fad brows.
Cha'rcoai,. «. /. [imagined by Skinner

by Mr. iy, from '''' chark, to burn.]
Coal made by burning wood under turf.
It is ufcd in preparing metals.
Seacoal

lafts

longer than charcoal i and char-

coal of roots, being coaled into great piece', lafls

Bacon's Hat, Hift.
longer than ordinary charcoal.
Love is a lire that burns and fparkles
In men as nat'rally as in charcoals.
Which footy chymifts Hop in holes,
When out of wood they extraft coals. Huilihras.
Is there who, lock'd from ink and paper, firrawls
With dep'ratc charcoal toani his darkened walls !

Pofe.

Chard, it./, [charde, French.]
1, Chards of artichokes, are the leaves of
and wrapped
up all over but the top, in ftraw, during
the autumn and winter ; this makes them
grow white, and lofe fome of their bitChambers.
tcrnefs.
2. Chards of beet, arc plants of white
beettranfplanted, producing great tops,
which, in the midH, have a large, white,
thick, downy, and cotton- like main
fhoot, which is the true chard, Mortimer.

To CHARGE. "J. a.
cffre, Ital.
I.

[charger, Fr. cari-

from carrus, Lat.]

To entruft

;

to comraiflion for a cer-

Jci.

l"he prieft (hall charge her by an oath. Numbers,
Thou canft not, cardinal, devifc a aame

So (light, unworthy, and ridiculous.

to be derived from ehar, bufinefs ; but,

liero, his mag-

naninii'v, kit conllancy, hit I'atisnce, hi" piety, or

be counted into the bread we eat ; the plough, mill,
oven, or any other utenfils, muft all be charged on
» Lode,
the account of labour.
Pcrverfe mankind ! whofe wills, created free.
Charge all their woes on abfolute decree ;
All to the dooming gods their guilt tranflate.
And follies are mifcall'd the crimes of fate. Pofe.-

tilitious

fair artichoke plants, tied

The vifaje (juite transforms of him that drinks.
And the inglnrlout likcncls of a beaft

Locke.
on the peripatetick doftrine.
It is not barely the ploughman's pains j the reaper's and threlher's to"il, and the baiter's fweat, is to

token.
There

To dufty nothing.

Drydcn,

It it eafy to account for the difficulties he charges

growing up with it.
Hak's Oririn of Manhiiul.

To mark with a particular ftamp or

3.

No more accufe thy pen, but charge the crime
On native T.oth, and negligence of time.

Ch a'r ACTERiZE. V. o. [from chaTo give a charafter or an account of

1.

,

Logarithm.

railer. ]

I f.iund the letter

brother's.

3.

The fame with the index or expcnent.
To

The hand or manner of writing.

3.

of a

Shakeffrarc.

,

To impute as a debt: withan before

2.

conftitutes the charafler ;

A letter ufcd in writing or printing.

2.

purpoTc : it .has with before tha
thing cntrulled.
And the captain ef the guard charged Jofeph

vhaterer ckaraStrlfka! virtue his poet glv*i him,
Drydai.
raifes our admiration.
Characteri'sticalness. h. /. [from

attend you

kitchen, whom you pay ouly
with the Cickea m»t, a I'evi cools, and all the
Swifi.
einiers.
eonftintljr

C H A

C H A

C H A

To tharge me to an anfwer as the pope.
9.

To command

Shakcff,

to enjoin.
I may not fuffer you to vifit them ;
The king hath ftriflly cberg'd the contrary. Sbak.
Why doft thou turn thy face ? I charge thee,
anfwer
;

To what I fliall enquire.
I

Drydcei,

charge thee, ftand.

And tell thy name, and bufinefs in tlic land. Dryd,
To fall upon; to attack.
With his prepared fwcrd he charges home
ShakeJ)).
My unprovided body, lanc'd my arm.
The Grecians rally, and their pow'rs unite

10.

;

With fury charge iis, and renew the fight,
11. To burden ; to load.

thjd.

Here's the fi«eilof bkod ftill; all thcpcrfumei
Oh !
of Arabia will not fweeten this littlc^hand.
What a figh is there The heart is
oh oh
!

!

forely charged.

I

Shukeffeare,

When often urg'd, nnwllling to be greit.
Your country cills yon from your iov"d retreat.
And fends to fenates, charg'd with common care.
Which none more (huns, and none can better bear.
Dryden,
Meat fwalloweJ down for pleafure and greedincfs, only charges the t^omach, or fumes into the
Temp/e.
brain.
A fault in the ordinary method of education, h
the charging of children's memories with rules and
precepts.

Locke,

The brief with weighty crimes was charg'd.
S-.iifi.
On whidi the pleader much calarg'd,
12.

To

C HA
12.

To cover with fomething adventitious.
n

To fix, as foi Sght.

hands,

He rode up and down, gallantly mounted, and
Kr.cUes'i Hifnry cf tht Turks.

To Charge. 1;. n. To make an onfet.

hi",

10.

Granville.

Care; cuftody ;

truft to

Expence ;

Fairfax*
He enquired many things, as well concerning
the princes which had the charge of the city,
whether they were in Iiope to drfcnd the fame.
KcilJa'i H:J}ory of the Turis.

worfe than indelicacy j they would be immoral.

B.TCon^s Al<vice to ViUicrs.

Witnefs this army of fuch mafs and chjrgc.
Led by a delicate and tender prince. Shakf^eare.
He liv'ii as k'ngs retire, though more at large.
11. It is, in

to beware of philofophy ; that is to fay, fuch know-

Aidijon on Italy.

Saul might even lawfully have offered to God
thofe referved fpoils, had not the Lord, in that
particular cafe, given fpecial charge to the contrary.

Hioker.

ledge as men by natural reafon attain unto. Hooker.
One of tlie Turks laiU down letters upon a llone,
faying, that in them was contained that they had
in charge.

rally

CHA'acEFur,

14.

ShakefpearfM

dilh.

HcapM in great cbargeriy load uurl'umptuous boards.
Dertkavt*

Void of a bulky charger near their lips,

The fignal to fall upon enemies.

With which, in ofccn interrupted flecp,

Our authar feems to found

Their frying blo;»d compels to irrigati
Their dry furr'd tongues,

a charge,

and beDrydtrr.

The pofture of a weapon fitted for the C H a'r

Whit p:ipcr do you talcc up fo cbarVs ? ,Shoh-fp,
I

16.

Sbikeffeare.

What any thing can bear.
Take of aqua-fortis two ounces, of qulck-filvcr

bear, the dilfolution will

1

7.

18.

Above the palace of our (lumb'ring king;

He fijh'd, abaadooing his charge tj fate. Drydcn.

big

Ital.]

Bacon.

The quantity of powder and ball put

1.

Among

farriers.
Charge is a preparation, or a fort of ointment of
the confidence of a thick decnftion, which is applied to the flioulder-fplaits, inflammations, and
fprains of horfes.
A charge Is of a middle nature, between an ointment and a plafter, or between a plafter :md a ca-

Milim.

Dryden.

flint as

taplafm.

lour, except it be a coat divided only by partition.

Pcacham.

Ch a'rgeabi. E. arij. [from c/5'ajyf.
I.

Expenfive ;

coftly.
Divers bulwarks were demolllhed upon the fea-

coafts, in peace chargeable, .inJ little ferviccable in

war.

Put garlands on thy head.
2.
.

Hayward.

Neither did we eat any man's br^ad for nought,
but wrought with labour and travel night and day,
that we might not be chargeable to any of you.
2 Thcjalomjns.
There was another accident of the fame n.iturc
on the Sicilian fiHr, much more pleafant, but lefs
ch.irgcalie ; for it colt nothing but wir.
py<,ii^n.
Confidcring the chaigeable methndi of their education, their numerous iiTu:, and faiAil inccme, it

Shakfpcare,

A car in which men of arms were ancicntly placed.

He feims the liquid plains.
High on his chariot, and with loulen'd reins

'

D/ydiu's j^/ieid.

Majeftick r^oves along.
3.

The charge is that which is born upon the co-

A wheel carriage of pleafure, or ftate ;
a vehicle for men rather than wares.
I'liy grand caprain Antony
Shall fct thee on triumphant chariots, and

farrier's Dilt.

19. In heraldry.

wiliconfentto ail any villany againft him, thaC

may not fully the ci'^mrtf/s of our honertv. Hhakefp*
CHA'RIOT. n.f. [car-rhod, Wellh, a
wheeled car, for it is known the Britons
fought in fuch ; charriot, Fr. carretta,

into a gun.

6. It has upon before the perfon charged.
He loves God with all his heart, that ii, with
that degree of love, which is rhe higheft point of
our duty, and of God's charge i//>c« us.
T.tykr^i Rule cf Living Holy,

Our guardian angel faw them where they late

not bear a

as a nutmeg.

5. It has »/ before the fubjedl of command

More had he faid, but, fearful of her ftjy,

nicety ; fcrupuloulhefs.
I

Alfcs of great charge.

two drachitis, for that charge the aqua-fortis will

The ftirry guardian drove bis charge away

PhV'ipu

[from chary m'I Warily ;

.

Nehemiah.

To thy tranfgrclTions, and difturb'd the charge
Of others ?
Miluns Paradije Lojl.

L y . adv,

Cha'r NESS. ff.y. [ frdm f/"rtr)- ] Caution;

15. A load, or burthen.

many.

fcrib-d

I

frugally.

Their neighing courfers daring of the fpur.
Their armed llaves in cA^r^^, their beavers down.

gave my brother charge cniir Jerufalem ; for
he was a faithful man, and feared Gnd abois

care or management of another.
Why hatl thou, baun, broke the bounds pre-

A large

Cha'rger. n.f. \Jrom charge.^

attack or combat.

I

The perfon or thing entrufted to the

Ex-

How much your chain wi'if hs to .he utmoft carat,
The finenefs of the gold, the chargeful fafliion.

Siaiifjieare.

Beating your officers, curfing yourfelves. Hhakefp.
Thcfe very men are continually reproaching tie
clergy, and laying to their charge the pride, tiie
avarice, t!it luxury, the ignorance, and fuperftition
of p'ipifli times.
Sivift.

'^Afeham.

adj. [charge and fuJI.^

Might have (omccbargers not cxa£lly drcfsM. iCi'-g*
Nor dare cliey clofc their eyes,

retreats are

gins like the clangour of a trumpet.

Accufation ; imputation.
We need not lay new matte; to his charge

.

no ways infcriour to

Honourable

Miltin.

Haft thou eaten of the tree,
Wl«r<o/" I gave thee charge thou ftiould'ft not ent ?

bought by him^ but libe-

penfive ; coftly.
Not in ufe.
Here 's the note

Bacon^s V/ar iv'ixh Spain.

or truft.

nf't che'-rgeably

given by others by his means.

brave charges ; as having lefs of fortune, more of
difcipline, and as much of valour.

office.

To fomc fiefli paflure.

He procured ic not with his money, but by his
wifjom ;

Ali the tributes land and fea nfTnrds,

Go firft the matter ef thy herds to fin:'.

S.

Expenfively ; at great coft.

This %o\Ae.t\ charger f fnatcH'd from burning Troy,
Anchiie^diJ in iacvjfice employ. DrjdeniAtnciJ,
Ev'n Lamb himfelf, at the moft folcmn fcaR,

13.

True to his charge^ a loyal Twain and kind. Pofn.
4. It had anciently iometimes o-ver before
the thing committed to truft.

7.

Ch a'rv3e ABLY. adv. SJ'iQim. chargeable .}

they flew eleven thoufand footmen, and fixteen hundred horfemen, and put all the others to
flight.
1 Maccabees.

This one, this eafy charge ; of all the trees

If large pofleflions, pompous titles, honourable
charges, and profitable commilfuns, could have
made this proud man happy, there would have
been nothing wanting,
L'EJIrartge.

coftlinefs.

not their chargiahlenefs, but their unfatisfa£lorinef:;, though they Ihould fucceed.
Bo-$U.

And giving a charge upon their enemies, like

Knol'et.

truft conferred ;

coft ;

lions,

Will not go off until they hear you fpeak. Sbakrff.
He, who requires
From us no othfr fcrvice than to keep

Commiffion ;

;

[from charge-

That wliich moit deters me from fuch trIaU, Is

12. Onfet.

The leaders having charge from you to ftand,

In Paradife, that bear delicious fruit
So various, not to taftc that only tree
Of knowledge, planted by the tree of life.

Expence

aide.']

later times, commonly ufed

It is not for nothing, that St. Paul givcth charge

Precept; mandate; command.

3.

Spcflal'.r.

Ch a'rgeablen ESS. it./,

From publickbufiners, yet of equal c/'ur^c Dryd.
in the plural, charges.
A man ought warily to begin charges, which,
once bCjjun, will continue.
Baccn^s EJfays.
Ne'er put ysurfeif to charges, to complain
Of wrong which heretofore you did fuftain. Dryd.
The laft pope was at confiderable charges to
make a little kind of harbour in this place.

2.

••

duly paid out of the excliequer.

Muft leave their lambs to hungry wolves in charge.

South.

:

Their chargevrzs always born by tho queen, and

defend.

fault or other chargeable upon

Subjedl to charge or accufation; accuiable
followed by nuith.
Your papers would be chai geable ivith fomething

3.

coft.

A hard divilion, wtien the harralefs Iheep

man, but fome

Wwn.

Spenjer en IreLuid.

Charge. »./. [from the verb.]
1.

Nothing can be a reil'onabic ground of defpifmg
a

Drydcn.

charge to the clergy.

Boing long lince made weary with the huge
charge wh'-ch you have l.rid upon us, and with the
ftrong endurance of fo many complaints.

Like your heroes of antiquity, he charges in
jron, and Teems to defpife all ornament but intrin-

Imputable, as a debt or crime: wither.

z.

Lccke.

or biftiop to his clergy.
The bilhop has recommended this author in

14. To load a gun with powder and bullets.

IS

An exhortation of a judge to a jury,

9.

charged and difcb^rged his lance.

next to a miracle, that no more of their thil
Atterbury^
dren fhould want.

governour's principal

much as may be, before he goes out of hia

as

Obfolete.

fick merit.

fliould be the

care; that an habitual gracefulnefs and politencfs,
in all his carrlag?, may be fettled in his charge,

It is pity the obdilks in Rome had not been
ibarged with fcveral parts of the Egyptian hiftories, inflead of hieroglyphicks.
llalj.
Addifm

13.

C H A

C H A
This part

A lighter kind of coach, with only front
feats.

To Cha'riot. v. a. [from the noun.] To
convey in a chariot. This wc,-ti is rarely
ufcd.

An an?cl all in (lames afccndcd,
As in a fiery column charioting
His godlike prcfcnce.

Mili.n'i Sampfcn Agon'ifles.

Chariote'er. it.f. [horn chariot.] He
It is ufed only
fpeaking of military chariots, and
thofe in the ancient public games.
The gafping charioteer beneath the wheel
Drydrn's Tatles^
•
Of his own car.
Thf burning chariot, and the charlotier.

that drives the chariot.

in

In biijjlit Bootci and his wans upp-'iir.
ylJ.lifon on Italy.

Show

C H A
Show SI the yeuchfat han^rame ehMttftr,
Prm.
Firm in his feat, and running hi« cireer.

5.

him, and privily relieve him; go you and maintain
talk with the duke, that my charity be not of him

A fport anciently ufed, where

perceived.

chariots were driven for the prize, as
a wonderful vigour and fpirlt in the

defcriptjon of the liorfe and charht race,

jijdljon.

11. a.
To burn to a black
cinder, as wood is burned to make char-

To Chark.

chariti.']

Kind la giving alms ;

liberal to the

Shortly thou wilt behold me poor, and.kneelinj
Rmat.
Before thy itaritat/e door for bread.
How ihill we ihen wifti, that it mightbc allowed
us to live OTcr our Iivc3 again, in order to fill every
minute of them with cbaritatic offices Atttrhurj,
Health to himf':lf, and to his infants bread,
The lab'rer bears s what his hard heart denies.
Pope.
His char'ittthle vanity fupplics.

How had you been my friends elfe ? Why have

mon

}

Charlata'nic k\..adj. [from chaiiatan.'\
Quackifh ; ignorant.

A cowardly fotdier, and a charlatattUal do^or,

Stakcjp. Tiircn,

are the principal fubjet£l:> of comedy.

The

Wheedling ;

Saccn.

Ch a'ritably. aJv. [from cliarify.l
Kindly; liberally; with inclination to
help the poor.
2. Benevolently ; without malignity.

"Tis beft fometimes your cenfure to reflrain.
And cbariiably let the dull be vain.
Pope.

jCHA'RITY. a. /. [chariti, Fr. charitas,

Cha'rlock. «.y! A weed growing among
the com with a yellow flower,
li is a

tin.]

Founded in reafnn, loyal, ju{l, and pure,
Relations dear^ and all the charities
Of father, fon, and brother, firft were known.
Milrcn.

;

think you have charms.
Not I, I affure thce^ fetting the attraction of my good parts
afide, 1 have no other charms.
Shatefpcarr.
There have been ufed, either barbarous words,
of no fenfe, left they ftiould difturb the imagination j or worlds of fimilitude, that may fcconJ and
feed the imagination : and this was ever as well
in heathen charms, as in charms of later times^

Goodwill ; benevolence ; difpofition to

My errouts, I hope, are only thofe of charity to
mankind j and fuch as my own charity has caufed
ine to commit, that of others may more ealily ex-

3.

Drfden.

The theological virtue of univerfal fove.
Concerning ciijc:/)-, the

final

that incomprehenfible beauty which (hineth in the
countenance of Chrilt, the Son of the living Cr^.

Ant^us could, by magick charms.
Recover ftrength whene'er he fell.

liocktr.

Ofall the reft.

Charms this report out.

Amoret

that can pleafe irrefiftibly.
Well founding vc.fcs aiV the charm we ufe,
Hcr«ick thoughts and virtue to infufe. Rojcommon.
Nor ever hope the queen of love
Will e'er thy fav'rite's tbarms improve.
Pri^/r.
To fam'd Apelles when young Amnon brought

Mihoi.

Faith believes the revelations of Cod j hopcrxpefls his promlfea ; charity lovej his cxcelli-ncies
and mercies.
Tityhr.

The darling idol of his captive hcnrt
And the ple.is'd nymph with kind attention fat,

But lading ^.ftuW/y's mnrc ample fway.

To have her cl\irms recorded by his art.

Nor bound by time, nor fubjcft to decay,

IValUr.

But what avail her uncxhaiiftcd (lores.

In happy triumph Ihall for ever hve.
Prior.
Charity, or a love of God, »-hich works by a love
of our neighbour, is greater than faith or hope.

Her' blooming mountains, and her funny ihores.

With all the gifts that heaven and earth impart,

The fmilcs of nature, and the riiormi nf art,

Allerhury.

While proud opprcfliin in her vallies reigns.

4. Liberality to the poor.
The heathrn poet, in commending the charity
«r Dido to the Trojans, fpokciikc a chrifiian.

'7i

Dryicn.

I.

And tyranny ulurps her happy plains?

Hhaktjfiart,

my lovely foe.

Tell me where thy (Irengtli does I'e

In thy foul, or in thy eye ?

Waller,

Charm by accepting, by fubmitting fway. Pope,
Chloe thus the foul alam'd,

Aw'd without fenfe, and without beauty charm' J.
Pope.

Cha'rmed. adj.

Enchanted.

Arcadia was tlic ctarmcd circle, where all bis
fpirits for ever fliould be enchanted.

*"

Sidney,

We implore thypowerful hand.

To uado the iharmd band

.

Of true virgin here diftrelfeJ.

Miltm,

Cha'rmer. »./ [ftom cbarnt.']
1. One that has the power of charms or
enchantments.
That handkerchief
Did in Egyptian t> my mother give;
She was a charmer, xni could almoft read

The thoughts of people.
The paflion you pretended.

Shakefpeare,

;

But when the charm is ended.

The fi^rrw^r you difdain.
Dryden,
2. Word of endearment among lovers.
C H a'r M I N G i particip. adj. [from charm."]
Pleafing in the higheft degree.
For ever all goodnefs will be clarmiHg, for ever
all wickeJncfs will

be moft odious.

O charming youth

!

"

Spratt.

in the firll op'ning page.

So many graces iu fo gretn an age.

Dry^ai,

Cha'rmingly. ad'V.

[from charming.]
In fuch a manner as to pleafe excecdJngly.
She fmiied very chariK'mgty, anti difcovered as
of teeth as ever eye beiuld.
Addifin.

fine a fet

Ch a'rmingn Bss. u./. [from chL^n/iitig.]
The power of pleating.
Cha'rkel. adj. [chara;!, Fr.] Containing flefli, or carcaffes.

S-w'ift.

Something of power to fubdue oppofition, and gain the affedions; fomething

2.

!

Where the pow'r that charms us fo.

I

Bacont
Alcyone he names amidft his pray'rs.
Names as a charm againft the waves and wind,
Moll in his mouth, and ever in his mind. Bryden.

oljeft whereof is

Peace, peace, for fliamc, if not for charity.—
^Urge neither charity nor (hamc to me
Vocharitably with me have vou dealt. Shakrfpeare.
Only' add
Deeds to thy knowledge anfwerable; add faith,
Add virtue, patience, temperance j add lov^
Sy name t« come cali'd charity, the foul

Words, or philtres, or charafters, imagined to have fome occult or unintelligible power.
I never kncvk- a woman fo dote upon a man
furely

think well of others.

cafe.

'Tis your graces

That from my muteft coufcience to my tongue'

fpecies of Mithridate muilard.

1.

Pofe>

To fubdue the mind by pleafure.

Was only to obtain

CHARM, n.f. [charme, Fr. carmen, La-

By thee.

a..

The northern

conftellation, called the Bear.
There are feven ftars in Urfa minor, and in
Charles' t-wain, or Plauftrum of Urfa major, fcvcn.
Brcnvtt^s Vulgar Errdtjrs.

Lat.]
I . Tentdernefs ; kindnefs ; love.

Mufick the fierccft grief can .'£<:/•«.
5.

deceit ; cheating with fair

Charlbs's-waIn. n.f.

crofs

patiently, injuries charitahiyi aid the labour of religion comfortably.
Taylor.

Coivley.

words.

J.

Nothing will more enable us to bear our

to overpower.

mine own woe charm' J,
Could not find death, where I did hear him groan
Nor feel him where he ftruck.
Shateffearet

Ch a'rl AT ANRY. n.f. [frO'n^cbarlatan.'\

bilhop anfwcrcd. By a charitaile con-

ftrudion it mty be a fermon.

amaze ;

Saltimbanchocs, quackfalvers, and charl^it^tisy
deceive them in lower degrees. Brov^ns ^f^S' ^rr.
For charlatans can do nQ good.
Until they're mounted in a crowd.
Hudiiras.

Of a politick fermon that had no divinity, the
king faid to bifhop Andrews, Call you this a fer-

charm yoo by my once commended beauty.
By All your vows of love, and that great vow
Which did incorporate and make us one. Sbaktff,
4. To fubdue by fdme fecret power ; to
I

from ciarlare, to chatter.]
A quack ; a mountebank ; an empirick.

^'ou that tharitahU title from thoufands, did you not

chiefly belong to my heart ?

Upon my knees

'

letatio, Ital.

2, Kind in judging of others; difpofcd to

Shake/peart-

To make powerful by charms.
3. To fummon by incantation.

Grenu'i C''Jrtioiogia Sacra.

CHA'RLATAN. «./ [ctarJatan.pT.ciar.

!

tenderoefs ; benevolent.

To one of woman bwn.
2.

1, in

Excefs either with an apoplexy knocks a man
on the head, or with a fever, like lire in a ftrongwater Ihop, burns him down to the ground ; or, if
it flames not out, charkt him to a coal.

.

bear a charmed life, which mall not yield

I

coal.

poor.

He that hinders a citrilabU perfon from giving
alms to a poor man, it tied to reftitution, if he hindered him by fraud or violence. Taylor' t Uily L'n>.

then to refufc her

her flathfulnefij but <he did
a charity in her diftrefs.
L'tfiratt^e.
I never had the confidence to beg a charily. Dryd.
ill

Cha'ritable.^i^'. \_cbaritabk, Fr. from
1

Shakefpeare.

The ant did well to reprove the grafthopper for

now horfes run.
There is

Let fall thy blade on vulnerable crefts;

Alms; relief given to the poor.

We muft incline to the king; I will look for

Chariot race. h. f. [from chariot &nA.
raei.'\

C H A

C H A

AdSiJon.

Charm, 'v. a. [from the noun.)
To foKify with charms againft evil.

Such are ihofe thick and gloomy /hadowsdamp.
Oft found in riarre/ vaults and.fepulcbres
Ling'ring, and fitting by a new fr.i;e grave. Miit,

Ch a'rnel-house.

>i.

/.

[chamicr. Ft.

from ceirc, carnisi Latin.] The place
under churches wliere the bones of the
dead arc repoAted.
\i ctarnel-boujes and our graves mull fend
Thofe, that v*'e bury, back; our minuments
Shall be the maws of kites.
Sbahrj'peart,

When they were in thofe ckarr.tl-bcufet, every
one was placed in order, and a biack pillar or cotiin
fet

by him.

Taylor.

CHART, n.f. [charta, Lat.] A delineation or

map of coalls, for the ufe of

from a map,
by reprefeutiiig only the coafls.
The Poituguefc, when they had doubled the
failors.

It is diftinguifhed

Cape of Good Hope, fousd

flcilful

pilots,

ufm^

aftronomical

C H A

C H A
tAronomical iBftrumcnts, geographical th*rti, and
Arikthno!.

compafTc:.

Cha'rtbr. h. /.

A

I.

[ckarta,,hanvi.'\
charter is a written evidence of things

CiiAtE. »./ [from the verb.]
I. Hunting ; as, the pleafures of the cha/e.
z. Purfuit of any thing as game.

3. Fitnefs to be hunted ; appropriation to

Coweil.
other offence.
Any writing beftowing privileges or

rights.
If yju deny it, let the danger light
Upon your charter , and your city's freedom. Shji,
It is not to be wondered, thjt tiie great darter
whereby God beftowcd the whole earth upon Adam,
and confitmed it unto the Tons of N(>ah, being a>
brief in word as lai^c in cHedl, hath bred much
quarrel of interpretation,

3. Privilege;

mull have liberty,
Withal as large a charter as the wind.
To blow on whom 1 picafe ; for fo fools have
And they that are moft galled with my folly,
They moll mud laugh.
Sh»keffiare.
My mother,
Who has a charter to extol her blood,

6.

Sidney,

touching things that are not in their

7.

ture between a fored and a park ; being commonly

I.

Fr.]

To hunt.
It (hall be as the chafed roe.

Jfaiah.

Mine enemies chafed me fore like a bird.
Lifmentatlotii*

J.

caufeth Ihame.

upon thofe that are purfued.
Mean time the Belgians tack upon our rear.
And raking chafe-guns through our Hern they fend.

Jndgei,

But 1 will chafiife this high-minded drumpet.
Shakefpeare,
I am glad to fee the vanity or envy of the cant-

ing chymido thus difcovered unA chaflifld,

figns or prodigies, earthquakes or inundations, fa-

mines or plagues.
Grew' sCoftiologia Sacra,
Like you, commilTion'd to chafiife and blefs,

He mud avenge the world, and give it peace. Prior,
2,

Hunter ; puriuer ; driver.

-

Then began

A flop th' chafer, a retire
A rout, confufion thick.
1'

To

;

Strctch'd on the lawn, his fecond hope furvcy,

At once the chafer, and at once the prey

I

Lo, RuFus, tugging at the deadly dart.
Bleeds in the fored lilte a woundcd hatt !

An enchafer.

Shatcfpeare,

Know, Sir, that I
Sbakeffeare.

So fad he flies, that his reviewing eye

2.

That I may pour my fpirits in thine car.
And chafiife, with the valour of my tongue,
All that impedes thee.

anon

Has loft the chafers, and his car the cry. Denham.

they, for their fafety, fled at lall to the city of
Bifennis.
Kmllii'i fiiftery of the Turks.
When the following morn had ehat'd away

To reduce to order, or obedience; to
reprefs : to reftrain ; to awe.
Hie thee hither,

Cha'ser, n.f. [from chafe.
1

Boyle,

Seldom is the world affrighted or chaflifed with

Dry den.

Previrts.

The flying ftars, and light reftor'd the day, Dryd.
See 7(1 Enchase.

CHASTI'SE.

Upon the north fide of this pleafant chafe. Shak.
The Chase of a gun, is the whole bore
or length of a piece, taken withinfide.
Chambers.
Chase-gun, n. f. [from chafe and^a;?.]
Guns in the forepart of the fliip, fired

4. 'J'o follow as a thing defirable.
drive.
J.
Thus chafed by their brother's endlefi malice
from prince to prince, and from place to place,

ToCuAiiMttalt.

.

8.

And Abimelcch chafed him, and he fled before

Ooeofyou Ihallritf/iratboafand. Deutcnnemy.
3. To drive away.
He that ehafitb away bi> mother, U a fon that

Miltoii't Paradife Lofi,

Some feel the rod.
And own, like us, the father's chafi'riing hand.

To

To purfue as an enemy.
him.

fubmit,

A

Carc^o^i Survey uf Ci/rtrwaU.

{chaffer,

!

Rtnoe,
than a fored, and not endued with lo many
From our lod purfuit die wills to hide
and yet of a larger compati^ and llorcd
Her clofe decrees, and chaflen human pride. Prior,
with greater diverlity of game, than a park.
-J. a,
[cafigo, Lat. anchafe dift'ers from afored in thii, becaufe it may \,To
be in the hands of a fubjeil, which a fored, in its
ciently a«cented on the firft fyllable,
proper nature, cannot: and from u park, in that it
now on the laft,]
is not inclofed, and hath not only a larger compafs,
1
punilh ; to correal by punifhment
and more dorej)f game, but likcwife more keepers
to afHift for faults.
and overfeers.
Covjell,
My bread I'll burft with draining of my courage,
He and his lady both are at the lodge.

Over his kindred he held a wary and chary
which bountifully was exprefled, when oc-

To CHASE, -v. a.

Cbaflcn thy fon while there is hope, and let not
thifoul fpa.e lor his crying,
Prmierhs,
I follow thee, fafe guide the path
Thou Icad'd me ; and to the hand of hcav'n

liberties ;

care,

Sbakeft,

tify,

lefs

When he fpeaks

If flie unmafk her beauty to the moon.

To Cha'sten. v. a. \chaflier, Fr. cafigo,
Lat.] Tocorreft; to punifh ; to mor-

However chafi'mng.

Invefted with privileges by charter ; privileged.

The air, a ch::rter'd libertine, is liill.
Slakifp.
Cha'ry. aiij. [from care.'\ Careful; cautious ; wary ; frugal.

'

This tree will grow to be eight or ten feet
high, and produce fpikes of flowers at the extremity of every drong ihoot in autumn.
Miller,

Open ground ftored with fii'ch bealts as

A receptacle for deer and game, of a middle na-

The charieji maid is prodigal enough,

fjme are clean and decent^ others unclean ;
Watts' s LogiH,
4. True to the marriage bed.
Love your children ; be difcreet, cbafie, keepers
at home.
Titus,
fomt- cbafie, others obfccne.

arc hunted.

Cka'rtered. ae^J. [from chcjrter.']

Free from obfcenity.
Among wolds which lignify the fame principal
ideas,

Craftvilte.

Hate

calion fo required.

phrafes.
3.

!

own nature maritime, belong not to the admiral's
jurifdi^ion.

Pure from all coThmerce of fexes ; as, a
cbnfe virgin.
Diana cbafie, and Hebe fair.
Prior,
2. With refpefl to language, pure; uncorrupt ; not mixed with barbarous

Hold, Warwick feek thee out fomc other chafe,
Shak.
For I myielf mud put this deer to death.
Honour 's the noblcft chaje ; purfue that game,
AJQ recompenfe the lof« of love with fame.

Chtirfer-f>artieit or contrails, made even upon the

fra,

grape.

CHASTE, adj. [chafe, Fr. cafus, Lat.]

The game hunted.

% rifing.

A paper relating to a contradl, of

Dryden.

A fort of

Chaste-tree. ». y; [W/fr, Lat.]

She, feeing the towering of her purfued chafe,

Shakefp.

[French.]

1

went circling about, riling fo with the Icfs fenfe of

which each party has a copy.
high

In dory r;!ia/i>ij, in cpochas midakes.

Dryden't Juvenal.

Charter-party. »._/.' [chartre partie,
Fr.]

me Uili tJiat fpotlefs name retain.

Purfuit of fomething as defirable.
Yet this mxS chaje of fame, by (eve purfued,
Has drawn deltruilian on the multitude.

5.

I

When die iloes praifc me, grieves me.

let

dcnly be put in readinefs, made forth with them,
and luch as came daily in, ws fet upon them, and
gave them cbaf.
Baan.
He fallied out upon them with certain troops of
horfemen, with fuch violence, chat he overthrew
them, and, having them in chafe, did fpoed/ exeKrtollci't titflsry of the Turks.
cution.
They feek that joy, which ot'd to glow
Expanded on the hero's face.
When the thick fquadrons ptefs'd the foe.
And William led the glorious eh.tfe.
Prior.

Sutth.

immunity; exemption.

CHJ'SSELJS. n.f

1

The admiral, with fuch Ihips only as could fad-

God renewed this charter of man's foveieignty

a vacuity.

Oh

noxious.

Dry den.

;

Some lazy ages, loft in cafe,
* No a£tion leave to bufy chronicles
Sucli, whofe lupice felicity but makes

And only make the beails of chafe my prey. Dryd.
4. Purfuit of an enemy, or of fomething

^cre was that charter feal'd, wherein the crown
All marks of arbitrary power lays down. Denham,
She ihalces the rubbiih from her mounting brow.
And fcemt to have renew'd her ctarter^s date,
\Vhich beav'itiwill to the death of time allow.

over the creatures.

A place unfilled

z.

cha/e or fport.
Concerning the beafts of chafe, whereof the buck
is the firft, he is called the firft year a fawn. Shak.
A maid 1 :im, and of thy vitgin train ;
Frequent the forefts, thy chafte will obey,

Raleigh^s EJffayi,

a cleft ; a gap ;

In ail that vifible corporeal world, we fee no
Locke.
ehafms or gaps.
The water of this orb communicates with that
of the otean, by means of certain hiatufes or
ehafms palling betwixt it and the bottom ot the
ocean.
fVoodtvard*
The ground adud her riv'n mouth difparts,
Hoirible r£'c_^ / profound.
Philipt*

There is no chafe more pkafant, methinks,
than to drive a thought, by good conduit, from
one end of the world to another, and never to lofe
fight of it till it fall into cterrNty.
Burnet's Theory of the Earth.

:

A breach unclofed ;
an opening.

I ,

Whllft he was haft'ning in the chafe. It feems,

Cbnrttrs
are divided into charurs of the king,
and charter! of private perfons. Charters
of the king are thofe, whereby the king
paffeth any grant to any perfon or more,
as a charter of
or to any body politick

z.

Chasm, ti.f. [xA'^i^"-!

Of this fair couple, meets he on the way
Shakefpeare.
The father of this feeming lady.

done between nr. n and man.

exemption, that no man (hall be empannelled on a jury ; charter of pardon,
whereby a man is forgiven a felony, or

C H A

Pope.

Will not wait pinion'd at your mader's court.
Nor once be chaflis'd with the fober eye
Of dull Oftavia.
Shakeffeare.
The gay focial fenfe
By decency chaflis'd.
Thomfon.

Chasti'sement. ». /.
Correction ;

[chafiment, Fr.]

puniihment ; commonly.
though

C H A
thcBgh not aUvnya, ufed ofdomefUck or

Chat. n.f. The keys of trees are called

partinral puniAimcnc.
I

He held the iKJUintnt of one, which moleltcd

his i'ftVaions from t!.« «-orld.

Here are about twenty towns and forti of great
imporunce, with their chaldlaniti and dependencies.

fret;
I will be mafter of what is mine own

ab-

The legal tenant

that of virgins or widows ; continence,
of married perfans : chjftc marriages are honour-

IJudihrat.

unharmonious bird.

Freedom from o'ofcenity.
Freedom from bad mixture of any

Nightingales feldom fing, the pie ftill cbatleretb.
^
Sidney.
So doth the cuckow, when the mavis lings.
Begin his witlcfs note apjcc to chatter.
Sfirfir.

kind; purity of language, oppofcd to

There was a crow fat cbatter'wg upon fhc iiack

1 hrrc is n ^t ctj/!iiy enough in language.
utiertlum. Sbak* Much jido,
Without ofTencf
t'-»

of a (heep 'Well, firrah, fays the Iheep, you durft
not have done this to a dog.
L'Eftratge.
Your birds of knowledge, that in dulky air

barbarilins.

:

[from

perfon'that chalUlci ;

The

chafti/e.']

a puniflier ;

a

'Cbiitfcr futurity.

correftor.

Cha'stely./ii/i;. [from cbajie,'\ Without
incontinence ; purely ; without contaminatiou.
You Ointtld not pafs here; no, though it were

a^

Jfuisit.

3.

JVatis'i L'.giik.

1.

Tf Chat, -ask-n. [from caqueter, Fr. Skin-

To prate ; to talk idly

Noife like that of a pie or monkey.
The mimick ape be^an his chatter.

How eW tongues his life befpattcr..

ner ; perhaps from a<hat, purchafe or
cheapening, on account of the prate
naturally produced in a bargain ; or
only, as it is moft likely, contrafted

2. Idle prate.

;

chub

1

To CHAW.
to chew.

A

I

home returning, fraught with foul dcfpight,

And chawing vengeance all the way I went.
Sfrenfer^s Fairy Slueen,

unlefs luJJcroufly.

prate ; flight or negligent tattle.

mAe

myfelf vrould
Sbaktf^fare,
chough of as' drep chat,
The time between before the fire they fat,
And (horten'd the delay by pleafing ckat. Drydcn.
The leaft is good, far greater than the tiikllrg
of h.» palate with a glafs of wine, or the idle (ha!

A

Lk\i.

Snuff, or the fan, fupplies each paufe of chat,
"With fioging; lauf iiing, ogling, and all tlMt< Pcfi,

7

They come te «s, but us love draws

He fwallows us, and never ttva'j
He is the tyrant pike, ;ind vvc the fr)'.

Donne.

Whether he fuund any ufe of tbatL'inr littic
fponges, dipt in oil, in his mouth,

when lie was

perfeflly undjjr water, and at a tlillance

:

virtuous, or 1 '11 never cheapen her.

The firft

Sbak.
he cheapened was a Jupiter, which

would have come at a very eafy rate. L^EJIrangc.
She dipt fometimes to Mrs. Thody's,

To cheapen te.u

Prior.

'lo (hops in crosvds the daggled females fly.
Pretend to cheapen goods, bu; nothing buy. Swifts

2.

To leflcn value.
My hopes purfuc a brighter diadem.

Can any brighter than the Roman be ?
I find my pro(5er'd love has cheapen d me. Dryden,
Che'aply. adv. [from cheap.] At a
fmall price ; at a low rate.
By ih."li: 1 fee
So great a day as this is cheaply bought. Shakefp.
Blood, rapines, mafTacres, were cheaply bought.

So mighty rccompencc your l>c.iury brought. Dryd.

5

'

engine.

Lords, that can prate
•
As amply and unnecedarily

Rich (he fhall be, that 's certain ; wife, or I 'II
none

K'altcni jirgier.

[Frencii.]

'V. a.
[kaiveit. Germ.]
To
champ between the teeth j to mafticatc

To talk of. Not in ufe,

t^HAT. n.f. [from the verb.] Idle talk ;

[ccapan, Sax. to
buy.]
To attempt to purchafe ; to bid for
any thing ; to alk the price of any com-

Swift.

fort of pear.

All tongues ipcak of him, and the bleared fights
Arc fpeiliclcd to fee him. Vour pra;.ling niwfc
Into a rapture lets her baby cry,
Shaiifpcan.
'While /he tiati him.

TIiChe'apen. t. a.

modit}'.

vender, or indeed any great fifli.

MUl'>n,
Sat fimply tkatihrg in a niftick row.
With much good-will the motion was cmbrac'd,
To ctet « while on their adventures pafs'd. Dryd,

L'EJIrange.

Some few infulttng cowards, who love to vapour
good cheap, may trample on thofe who give leaft
refinance.
Decay of Piety.

'

CHAUMOKTE'LLE.n.f

Your faucinrfswiil jcft upon my love. Stakrjfeare.
The niepherds on the lawn

Sidney.

cheap at home.

Thefc are a choice bait for the chub, or cha-

Sptnjer,

'

with hunting afcir that abroad, which he carri s
about him ail tlie while, and may have it better

a iilb.

:

we pay fo dear for
worM was very good

many a man's c^fe to tire himfeif oat

It is

Cha'twood. »._/; Little flicks; fuel.
Cha'vender. »./ {cheveftie.Yi.] The

Bccaufc that I familiarly fonietimes
Do uf; yoU for my fool, and chat with you.

of J foaking club.

cheap.

idle talker ; a prattler.

'i\\\a chatien the people in their fteads,

I

The fame wine which
now-a-days, in that good

Cha'tterer. n.f. [from cbaiter.] An

to prattle ; to cackle ; to chatter ; to
«onverfc at e.ife.

As this Gonialo,

:

To talk idly or carelcfly.

DryJcn.

ty ; purity.

To Chat. i'. a.

whence Mafcbeei]), Cheapfn'e.]
Market ; purchafe ; bargain as, good
cheap, a bon marche, Fr.
market;

Orydcr..

Cha'stness. n.f. [from fA«/?^.] Chafti- Cha'tter. «. / [from the verb.]

Vlike as a moiiftcr of many he«-!s.

Cheap, n.f. [cheping is an old word for

^uflVr no hoar to pals away in a hay idlencfs,
an impertiiKnt ebatieriitg, or ufelef^ trifles.

Succt-'jii 'n

from chatter.]

are turned into terms of dcriiion, and every way ia
taken, by profane men, towards rendering us cheep
and contemptible,
jitteriury.

teeth.
Stood Theodore furpris'd in dcidly fright,
With chtti'r'wg teeth, and briftling hair upright.
Drydcn.
Dip but your toes into cold water.
Their correfpondent teeth will clatter.
Prior.

Shalitfftart.
at virtuous to lie as to live chaptly,
lovi^
Make firit a long of joy

of a long dcfi.ent,
Wl.icli ih,!jlily in the channels ran.
And from our demi-gods began.

And you grow ibcnp in every fuojcil's eye. Dryden.
The titles of diltinclion, which belong to us,

To make a noife by coUifion of the

2.

Wliich (hajiily flame in r-iyal eyes.

The goodnefs, that ia cheap in beinty, makei
beauty brief in giwditefs.
Sbakiffeare.
Had I fu Uvifh of myprefence been.
So common hackncy'd in the eyes of men,
So flale and cheap to vjlgar company. Sbakefpeare.
He that is too much in any thing, fo that he
givetli jnother ccafion of focictj-, maketh himfelf
cheap.
Bacon.
May your fick fame ftiU languilh till it die,

To make a noifc as a pie, or other

1.

not

;

rcfpeflcd.

To CHA'TTER. -v. n. [caqueter, Fr.]

TayUr*
4rd pleafmg to God.
Ev'n Irfre, where frozen chajiiiy retires.
- Popt,
Love fiRds an al ar for forbidden fires.

Lock/.

Of fmall value ; eafy to be had

2.

;

Not to be forfeited in batlc.

ai^ie

imme.

diately turn dear.

'tis a cbattle

j

thing-to be fold will be ebcaf.

On the other fijr, ra;fe up a gieat many buyers

She is my goods, my chattels.
Sbateffeare.
Honour's a leafe for lives to come.
And cannot be extended f/om

is

n. /.

buyeis,. there the

for a few fellers, and tlie fame thing will

Nay look not big, nor ftaiDp> nor- dare, nor

Who can be bound by any folemn vow

CriASTi'sKR.

Where there are a great many fellers to a few

Drydtn.

ufed but in forms of law.

To force a fpotlef* virgin's chafl'uy T Stakcfftart.

3.

for a fmall price.

:

Purity of the body.

To be had at a low rate; purchafed

1.

Cha'ttel. «, / [See Cattle.] Any
moveable pofTcffion a term now fcarce

Cha';tity. n. /. [cajlitas, Liit.]

t.

Entrails.

to buy.]

caftle.

Batlty.

dijjlity is either ibiiinence or continence :

/

Shrtkeffturit
Cha'tellany. n. J. \chuuUnie, Fr.]
The dillrii^ under the dominion of a CHEAP, aclj. [ccapan, Sax.koopeH, Dutch,

but lying, or ill-natured Cricki * the lepeatrd commiflion »t u'hich Ibail bring him to the cbcjl'tjcment
Locke,
of the ro^t*
He rcce.vfs a fit of ficknefs as the kind tbafliftw.'rt and difciplinc ol his heavenly Father, to wean

«f.

Add thereto a tyger's cLaivdm,
For the ingredknCs of our cauldron.

die fee of Rome, pliiafixg to Cod. Raltiih'i Ejpiys.
For fev^n years uhut can a child be guihy of,

fliTiencc

ChaVorok.

ibats ; as, alh cbati.

ihi'A
fu inud) (Jiilirnour my fair ilart*
On c^uJi ccrnis to give hi.n cbcf!'jtmint f StaJicffi*

1.

CHE

C H A

from his
Biy/e.

Che'apness. n.f. [from riiw/.] Lownefs of price.
Ar.ciciit Oatutes incite merchant-ftrangers to
bring in commedities ; having for end cbetpnefi.

Bacon.

The man who lauglit but once to fee an afs

The difcredit which is grown upon Ireland, has

Mumbling to make the crofs-grain'J thiliks pafs.
Might laugh again, to fee a jury chaw

been the great diftouragement to other nat'ons to
tranfplant themfi-lves hither, and prevailed farther
than all the invitations which the cbeapjieh and
plenty of tV.c country has made them.
'timple,

The prickles of unp.1l itable law.

Dryden.

Chaw. n.f. [from the verb.] The chap

;

the upper or under part of a beaft's

mouth.
I will

turn thcc bick, and put hooks into thy
all thine

eba^ci, anil will bring thee forth and

am>;.

MacUel.

Che ar.

See Cheer.

To CHEAT, -v. a. [of uncertain derivation ; probably from acheter, Fr. to purchafe,

alltuling to the tricks

makiog bargains.

ufed

in

Sec the noun.]
».

To

CHE

CHE
1,

3

To compare a bank note, or other bill,

It is ufed commonly of low cunning.
It. is a dangerous commerce, where an honeft
nan is furs at firll of being cheateJ ; and he recoTcrs not liis lofles, bw by learning to cbwt others.

4.

with the correfpondent paper.
To controul by a counter-reckoning.

Dry den,

I .

;

To Check,

2. It has

o/" before

by fraud.
Deform'd, unfinift'd.

Shairffiare.

abbreviated from efcheat, becaufe many
fraudulent meafures being taken by the
lords of manours in procuring efcheats,
cheat, the abridgment, waa brought to
convey a bad meaning.]
A fraud ; a trick ; an impoftnre.

z.

3.

1

or arreft in their fortunes.

Dryder.

It was this viceroy's zeal,

BacorCs Effays.

which gave a remark-

2.

Shakejftare,

That fweet nor dainty flower,
Tiiat damaflc'd not the cbecker'd floor

Of Cynthia's fummer bower.
Many a youth and many a maid

Reflraint ; curb; government; continued reftraint.

Milton.
In the chefs-board, the ufe of each chefs-man il

I will bar

Swift.

tereft.

no

A reproof; a flight.

honeft man my houfe, nor no chmlrr, Shakeffeare.
All forts of injurious perfons, the facrilegiuus,
the detainers of tithes, cheaters of men's inhe-

3.

ritances, falfe wicaefTes and accufers.
Taytfiri Rule of Living H'Jy,

do know, the ftatc.
However this may gall him with fome check.
Cannot with fafety caft him.
Sbakefpeare.
diflike ; a fudden difguft ; fomething
4.

CHECK. V. a.

[from the French
from whence we ufe, at
that game, the term checkmaie, when
we flop our advcrfary from carrying on
his play any farther.]
echecs, chefs ;

to curb.

Is nobler than attending for a check.

th-.t Hops

the progrefs.
Say I ihould wed her, would not my wife fubjefls
check,
and
think itfttange? perhaps revolt f
Take
Dryden.

Baan.
dead.
.
I hate when vice can bolt her arguments.
And virtue has no tongue to check her pride. Milton,
He wlio fat at a table, richly and delicioudy

j

ieuth,

to chide.

Hbai'Jpeare.

In falconry, when a hawk forfakes her
proper game to follow rook?, pies, or
other birds that crofs her flight.
Chambers.
A ynung woTian is a hawk upon her wings
and if (he be handfome, (he is the more fubjcrt to
go out on check.
Suckling.
Wheri whillcd from the 6ft
Some falcon ftoops at whjr her eye defign'd.
And with her ea^ernefs, the quarry mila'd,
Straight files at check, and clips it d&wn the wind.
Dryden.

furnifhed, but with a fwotd hanging over bis head
by one Angle thread or hair, furely had enough to

^Ljk<fpeare,

Shakeffeare.

A

Refcrve thy ftjrte ; v/ith better judgment check
This hideous raflinefi.
Sbakejfeare,
Fames may t< fown and raifed, thiy may be
fpread and multiplied, they may be ihecied and laid

His fault IS much, and the gOo4 king his maflcr

Che^cker.

7 »•/• Work varied .-il
e'c KER- WORK, j temately as to its
colours or materials.
Nets of cherker-iuork and wreaths of chain-woric
chapiters which were upon th_- top of the

I

5.

Richard, with his eye brimful of tears.
Then checked and ratCJ by NnnhufnbcrlanJ,
Did fpeak thefe words, now pruv'd « propbrcy.

'

C

Oh! this life

6.

Locke.

In our prcfent condition, which is a middle
ftatc, our minds are, as it were, chequered v'lxh
truth and falfehood.
Addifm,
The ocean intermixing with the land, fo is to
checker it ilito earth and water.
JVoodtvard's Natural HiJIoiy,
Here waving groves a cbecker'd fcenc difplay.
And part admit, and part excluJc the day. Pope.

Break Prifcian's head, and Pegafus's neck. Pope.
While fuch men are in Jruft, who have no check
from within, not any views but towards their in-

He is no fwaggerer, hoftefs ; a tame cheater i'

that chequered piece of

wood.

Clarendon.

Difguifed cktaleri, prating mountebanks,

Drayton.

Dancing in the cbecker'd ftiade.
determined only within

Some free from rhyme or reafon, rule or check,

And many fuch like libertines of fin. Sbakcffeare,

Shakeff^

The wealthy fpring yet never bore

They who come to maintain their own breach
of faith, the check of their confciences much
brcaketh their fniric.
Hayivard.
The impetuofity of the new officer's nature
needed fome reftraint and check, for fome time,
to his immoderate pretences and appetite of power.

They fay this town is full of couzenage.
As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye |

Vpi. I.

That for the beauty thinks it excellent.

Rogers.

check.

[It is hurc for ejchemer.}

Will ««* him for it.

Sbakcfpcare,

As the fnake, rolled in the ftow'ry bank,
With (hining cbecker'd flough, doth fling a childj

which had been
but too much winked at.
yitterbury.
The great ftruggle with palTions is in the Arft

I will be cheater to them both, and they <hall be

;

Sbakrjpeare,

The green leaves quiver with the cooling wind.
And make a checkered fliadow on the ground.

to give a check to that facrilege

prafliftfs fraud.

To reprove

Check'ring the eaftern clouds with ftreaks of ligh.t.

God put it into the heart of one of our princes,

Che'ater. ». y: \fiom cheat.'] One that

check his appetite.

in the manner of a chefsboard, with alternate colours, or with,
darker and brighter parts.
The grey-eyed morn fmiles on the frowning night,
diverfify,

able check to the firA prugrefs of chrillianity.
Addijons Freeholder.

Diflimulution can be no further ufeful than it is
concealed ; for as much as no man will truft a
known cheat,
Stutb,
Like that notorious cheat, vail fums 1 give.
Only that you may keep me while I live. Dryder.,

;

.

a very dreadful manner, as if it were on purpofe
to give a check to this infolent Impiety.
TilUtJcn.

;

A perfon guilty of fraud.

To reprefs

Chambers,

To C H e'c K E R. "iv.a. [from tch:cs, chefs,
?"i) Che'qjjer.
To variegate or
j Fr.]

God hath of late years manifefted himlelf in

Drydin.

2.

upon me.

CnjiCK, in the king'»

Plymouth, is alfo the name of
an officer invefled with like powers.
n.ivy at

Rebellion in this land (hall Infe his fway,

With forae new joy, cuts off what we poflelf.

1.

family.

Meeting the check of fuch another day. Skakefp.
We fee alfo, that kings that have been fortunate
conquerors in their firil years, mull have fome check

Yet, fool's with hope, men farour the deceit S
Truft on, and think to-morrow will repay ;
To-morrow 's falftr than the former day ;
Lyes worfc ; and while it fays we (hall be bleft

To

A term ufed in the game of chefs, when
one party obliges the other either to
move or guard his king.
10. Cleri of the Check, in the king's
houfehokl, has the check and controulment of the yeomen of the guard, and
all the ulhers belonging to the royal

11. Clerk o/ the

llraint.

Drydeti.

you him ?

To ilrike with repreflion.
[from the verb.]
Repreffure ; (lop ; rebuff ; (udden re-

Empirick politicians ufe deceit.
Hide what they give, and cure but by a cbeat.

call

bill.

9.

Bacon.

It checks too ftrong

TctKflc.

faith..——CiMffr,

men's

it troubleth

The correfpondent cipher of a bank-

8.

Check. ». /.

though fo abufed by ill men, that
I wonder the good do not grow aSiamcd to ufe it.

exchequers to me.

as they are ufually called,
articulations of the breath or voice.

ril avoid his prefence \

The pretence of publick good is a cbeat that

2.

to interfere.

;

If love check with bufincfs,
fortunes.

will ever pafs,

When I confider life, 'tis all a cheat

To clafti

The letters have the natural produflion by fev<rral checks or flops, or,

Holder^ s Elements of Speech.

;

The mind, once jaded by an attempt above its
power, either is difabled for the future, or elfc
ci>^c/(i or any vigorous undertaking ever after. i<oi:i(r.

that am cartail'd of man's fair proportion,
Cbealed ef fettmt by diflembljng nature,
I

Any ftop or interruption.

7.

n.

And, like the haggard, check at every feather
That comes before his eye.
Shakeffeare.

the thing taken away

Cheat. »./ [from the verb. Some think

To flop

i»,

to make a flop : with at.
With what wing the ftanyel chicki at it.
Sbak.
Hemuft obferve their m.icd on whom he jells,
The quality of the perljns, and the time ;

Theri are people who find that the mod cft'ectual way to cbeat the people, is always to pretend
TUhtfrn.
to infaUible cures.

1

CHE

to impofe upon ; to trick.

To defraud

for the
pi 11a IS.

I

Kir.gi.

Che'ckmate. n. f. [echec et mat, Fr.]
The movement on the chefs-board that
,

kills the oppofite men, or

hinders them

from moving.
Love they him c-.II'd, tbatgave methc checkmate.
But better might they have b'-hat-- him hate. Sfrnf.

Che'ckroll. n.f. [from check and roll.]

A

roll or book, containing the names of
fuch as are attendants on, and in pay to,
great pcrfonages, as their houfehold fervants. It is otberwife called the chequerroll.

Cotuelt.

Not daring to extend this la-w further than M
the king's fervants in ehcckroU,

left it fliould have

been too harfli to the gentlemen of the kingdom.
Bacon's Henry VII.

The perfon checking ; the caufe of re- CHEEK. -./: [ceac, Saxon.]
Uraint
a flop.
I. The fide )f the face below the eye.
;

He was unhappily too much ufed as a check
upon the lord Coventry.

Clarendon.

A faiirlcal poet 18

laymen on

And now and then an ample tear trill'd down
Her delicate cheek.
Shakeffeare.
Her btauty hangs upon the check of nithl.

Dryd.n't Failes, Preface.,

Like » rich jewel in an iEthiop'sear. Seaktffeari%

bad pritilt.

the check of the

Q-q

I

ftaa

CHE

C HB
1 (hall

To tlice alone be praife.

funrey.tnd fpf

Daughter of tlw rofe, whofc cbetki unite

Who heav'n's altctnaie beauty well difplay.
The blufli of morning and the milky way. DryJ.
A general name among mechanicks tor
almoft all thofe pieces of their machines'
and inftruments that are double, and per-

cut the Uutiuur, and felt the Aug : it iay
partly under the os jugalc, or ibcclbotit,
ff^fcmur:.
1

yoc/.

;

'i"he cteerful birds

Fairy Slucen.

A merry heart m.iketh a cheerful countenance;
but by forrow of the heart the fpirit is broken.
Pronjerhi.^

Che'erfullv.

eiJv.

Without dejedlioa j

n. Entertainment-; provtlions ferved at a

[from cheerful.']
with willingnefs ;

with gaiety.

feall.

Pluck up thy fpirits, look cheerfully upon mc.

But though my cites be mean, take them in

Sbakefpeare.

good part;

To their known ftations cbcerfuUy they go. Dryti.

may Lave, but not with better

heart.

Doftrine is that which muft prepare men for difcipline ; and men never go on lb cheerfully, a^
when they lee where they go.
South.

Sbaltjftarc.

His wiJJ was never determined to any purluit of
good shar, poignant fauces, and delicious wines.

May the man.
That cheerfully recounts the female's praife,

Locke,

z. Invitation to gaiety.

You do not give the ibctr; the feaft is fold
That is not often vouched, while 'tis making,

Che'erfulness. n.f. [from chearfn/.J

Sbakeffiare,

Gaiety; jollity.

J.

I

Barbarofla, ufing th's exceeding cheerfultiefs and

have not that alacrity of fpirit,

forwardi'.efs of his fold icrs, weighed up the fourteen

Nor cbetr of mind, that 1 was wont to have. Sbak4. Air of the countenance.

gallics he had funk. Ktwilei's Hi/lory of the Turks.

With what refnlution and cheerfulncfi, with what

Right faithful true he was in deed and word,
But of his cheer did fcem too folenin fad
Nothing liid he dread, but ever was ydrad. Spcnfer,

courage and patience, did vaft numbers of all forts
of people, in the firft-aget of chriftianity, encounter
all the rage and malice of the world, and embrace
torments and death
Tillotfcn.

!

Which piiblick death, receiv'd with fuch a cbeer.
As not a figh, a look, a (hrink bewrays
The leait felt touch of a degenerous fear.
Gave life to envy, to his courage praife. Daniel*

He ended ; and his words their drooping cbeer
Bnlighten'd, and their languifli'd hope reviv'd.
Milton.
At length appear
Her grifly brethren ftrctcli'd upon tlie bier :
Pale ac the fudden fight, (he chang'd her cbeer.
Vryden,
5. Perhaps temper of mind in general
for we read of heavy cheer.
Then were they all of good cbetr, and they alfo
took fome meat.

:

^Ich.

H't

Cheer, -v. a. [from the noun.

1.

To incite

;

;

I marvelled to fee hSr receive

with fighs, and yet do them with cheer fulnrjs. Sidn.

\_homcheer.]
fl<^'.
gaiety, comfort, or gladnefs.

Ch e'er BY. aiij. [from cheer."]
Gay

Dry Jen's Fai/ei.
I died,

to confole.

flefling the benign and cheriihing fun-beams, and
fo rendering the.r habitations both

Sbakefpeare.

Difpleas'd at what,' not fuft'ering, they had fccn.

They went to cbeer the fadlion of the green. Dryii.
3. To gladden.
Hark a gbd voice the lonely dcfcrt ebeeri i
!

!

Pope'i Mijf.

The facrel fun, above the wjters rais'd.
Thro' beavcVs eternal brazen portals blaz'd.
And wide o'er earth dilTus'd his ^'<mw|; ray. Pofe.
I

fflC,HEER. v.n. Togrowgayorgladfome.
At fight of thee my gloomy foul chc^rt up
;

My hopes revive, and gl.icinefs dawns within mc.
A. PbiDfi.

Che'erer. n.f. [fromTefi&w.] Gladner;
giver of gaiety.

The prel's in which the curds are preffed*
The cleanly cbccfeprifs flie could never turn,
Her aukward fiit did ne'er employ the churn.
Gay't Pafioreht

Che'esevat. n.f. [from cheefe and vat.]

The wooden cafe in which the curds are
when they are preffed into
cheefe.
His fenfc occafions the careleQ ruftic to judge
the fun no bigger than a chccffvat.
Glanville,
confined

nature or form of cheefe.
Acids m:xcd with them precipitate atophaceoHt
chalky matter, but not a cbeefy fubftahce.
jlriutbmt on Alimentt,

Che'ly.^./ [chela, Lit.] The claw of
a fliell fifh.
It happencth often, I confefs, that a lobfter hath
the chely, or great claw, of one fide longer than the

other.

Brown.

Che'mistry. See Chymistry.
Che'quer. See Checker.
To CHE'RISH. -v. a. [che,-ir, Fr.]

2,

Not gloomy;

more comfortRay on the Creation,
notdejefted.

C H e'e R L Y. acb). [from cheer.] Cheerfully.
Under heavy arms the youth of Rome
j

Cbeerly their tedious travels undergo. Dryd. Virgil.

In God's name, cbeerly on, courageous friends,
To reap the harveft of perpetual peace.
By this one bloody trial of fliarp war. Sbakefpeare.

Oft liftening how the hounds and horn
Cbeerly roufc the (lumb'ring morn.

Che'erv.
fprightly ;

[from

Milton.

Gay;
having the power to make

ai^j.

To

and forward with encouragement, help, and protection j to flielter ;
to nurfe up.

Whenever Buckingham doth turn his hate

Upon your grace, and not with duteous love
Doth cberifo you and your?, God punifh me
With hate in th..fc where I cxpefl moH love. Sbak,
wjuld I were thy bird.
Sweet, fo would I
But I (hould kill thee with too much cberi/hing.

—————
1

Sbakefpeare,

What doth ebcrifh weeds but gentle air ? Sbakefp.
have always

thought thcmfelves
concerned to cberi/h religion, and t;> maintain in
the minds of men the belief of a God and another
'''«•
THhtfon,
But old god Saturn, which doth all devour.
Doth cberijh her, and Ibll augments her might.

David,

able and more cbeirly in winter.

The'HT long laborious marches overcome

ere I could lend thee aid ;

But cbeer thy heart, and be thou not difmay'd.

Prepare the way ; a god, a god appears

cheerful.

convenient fituations of houfcs and villages, rc-

yet, for

Knoiles.

;

;

Ben Jonftn,

Ch e'es £p R ESS. »./ [from f/S-c^/J and/r;/}.]

Magiftrates

They are ufeful to mankind, in affording them

He .becr'J the dogs to follow her who fled.
And vow'd revenge on her devoted head.

To comfort

Without

For fince mine eye your joyous fight did mifs,
Mychcerful day isturn'dtoficfr/t/might. Kij<^i^
On a bank, befide a willow,
Heav'n her cov'ring, earth her pillow,
Sad Amynta figh'd alonr^,
From the cteerlcfs dawn of morning
Till the dews of night returning.
Dryden.
1.

By trufting.

fupport

my commandments

Ch e'er LESS.

was nothing difcouraged, but cheered up

that,

the footmen.

*.

!

Freedom from gloominefs.

2,

to e'ncourage ; to infpirit.

He cbmplained that he was berrayed
all

Freedom fiom dejeftion ; alacrity.

1.

That gives ou' he 's undone.

Che'esv. adj. [from cheefe.] Having the

Find equal love, and love's untainted fwects
Enjoy with honour.
Philips.

'Tis given with welcome.

One who deals in cheefe.
A true owl of London,

monger.]

Being a chiefmonger,

Having an appearance of gaiety.

2.

thefe fenfes.]

Better cbeer you

Che esemoncer. n. f. [from cheefe and
•

of fundry kind

Do chiiunt fwect rauiick to deliglit his roind.

Cheer, n. f. [ckere. Pi. entertainment;
It feems to
cara, Sp. the countenance.
have, in Engiilh, fome relation to both

Effeminate he fat, and quiet
Strange produce of a chefecake diet.
Pr\7r,
Where many a man, at variance wi h his wife.
With lofc'ning mead and cbeefecake ends the ftiift.

Prime ebterer, light.

Che'erful. aeij. [from cheer and/u//.]
full of mirth.
1. Gay ; full of life

Sbakefpeare,

butter.

Of all material beings fitft and beft. 1'bcmf. Summer,

Che'ektooth. n. /. [from check and
tceik] The hinder-tootn or tuft.
He hath the chetktieth of a great lion.

heifclf.

Che'esecake.b./ [from chcefes.ni.cake.]
A cake made of foft curds, fugar, and

Temple.

fpirits.

Chaiiibers.

Che'ekbone.w./. [irom chetk ztA bone."]

Jfitton.

Angling was, after tedious ftudy, a t«ft to his
mind, a ci«rn- of his fpirits, adivertrrof fadnei's,
ffalton's Angler.
a calmer of unquiet thoughts.
Saffron is the fafeft and moft fimple coidial, the
greateft reviver of tlie heart, and cbetrer of the

The ilitf'ring.titlci of tlic reJ and white;

feftly alike.

I will rather truft a Fleming wirti my bnttar,
the Wclfliman with my cbuje, th.m to wife with

From whom our joy def-'cndi.
Thou cbtcrer of our days.

Ceath in thy<-f«4i,jMiilda'kn<:ls in th) cyf. Denne.

2.

CHE

cheer.]

gay

a ludicrous word.
;
Come, let us hie, and quaff a cheery bowl
J
Let cyder new wafli forrow from thy (bu'.
Ci:y'i Pajlorals.

He that knowingly commits an ill, has the upbraidings of his own conference ; thofe who aQ by
enour, have its ckcri/hings and encouragements to
animate them.
Decay of Piety.

Che'risher. n.f. [from cherifh.]
encourager ; a fupporter.
One of their greatcft praifcs

it

is

An

to be the

and cbcripen of a regular devotion,
a reverend worfliip, a true and decent piety. Sfratt.
maintaii.r re

C H e'r s H M E N T. n.f. [from chcrifj.] EnI

couragement J fupport ; comfort.

It is

now obiblete.
The one lives her age's ornament,
That with rich b >unty, and dear cheripmcnt,
Supports tlic praife of noble, pocfie.
Spt-rfer^i

Tears of Mufes.

7 „./ [cerfe, Fr.cerafs.
CHEESE, n.f. [cafeiis, Lat. cyj-tf Saxon] CHE'RRY.
A kind of food made by prcffing the Cm b-RR y-tree. 3 Lac]
,

curd of coagulated milk, and laffering
tlic mali to dry.

The fpreies are, i. The ommon rcl or garden
3. The red heart
cherry. 4. The white heart therry, 5. The bleedcherry, i. Large S;iani(h cherry.

ing

CHE

C H E
6. The black heart chi!rr>'.
or ma7. The May cherry. 8. The bbck cherry,
The yellow
lard.
9. The Ji-chdake ciierry. 10.
Spani/h cherry. I r. The Flanders clufter cherry.
f}. The large black
12. The carnation cjicrry.
15. The led bird
14. The bird cherry.
cherry.

ia; heart cherry.

6. The Urgelt double floweror Cornilh cherry.
17. "l he double (lowered cherry.
ed cherry.
19. The wild
iS. The common wild cherry.
northern Englilh cherry, with lite ripe fruit.

;o.

The (hock

perfumed chcny.

or

zi.

The

And many other
cherrytree with ftriped leaves.
forts of cherries ; as the amber cherry, lukeward,
corane, Galcoigne, and the morello, which is

Mi!/tr.

^rts of Europe.

Some alk but a pin, a nut, a cbtriy ftone ; but
would have a chain. Slukefj}.
July I would have drawn in a jacket of li^htjellcw, eating churifs, with his face and bolbm
Peacham,
fttn-burnt.
A little fpark of lift, which, in its fird appearance, might be indofed in the hoUow of a cherry
ihc, raoie ciivetous,

Hale,

ftons.

Che'rrv. aaj. [from

fubftandve.]

the

Refembiing a cherry in colour.
Shore's wife hat!) a pietty foot,
li;), a faffing pleafing tongue.

A cherry

Sbakeff.

See Laurel.
CHE'RRy cHtEKED. aJJ. [{tom cherry ax\i
chetk.'] Having ruddy checks.

CHE'RR.v-EAr.

I warrant them cberrycLekd country girls.

Ciii^eve,

Che'rrypit. «./. [from cherry zni pit.']

A child's play, in which they throw
cherry ftones into a fmall hole.
What, man 'tis not for gravity to play at cber!

Aerial muliclc fend.
Miftoii's Paradife hnjl.
And on the eaft (ido of the garden place
ChtruhUk watch.
MihtrCi Paradife Loft,

[j/f^(Toniiro«.]

I

'I'his f-il

whore of thine

Hath in her more deftrudtion than thy fword.
For all her eberubin look.

Shakeffeare.

Jf't'od'uiard.
when 'ti? called cbtri.
CHt'RUB. n. /. [ai3 //«r. a>nD It is
fometimes written in the plural, imA celellial fpiproperly, cherubims.]
rit, which, in the hierarchy, is placed
All the
rext in order to the feraphim.

fevcral defcriptions which the Scripture
gives us of cherub, n, differ from one

another ; as they are dcfcribcd in the
fbapes of men, eagles, oxen, lions, and
in a compoiition of all thefe figures put
together. Tiic hieroglyphical reprefentations in the embroidery upon the curtains of the

'I he

I.

cherubim of
Calmet.

roof o' th' chamber

With gold eherttlimi h ftetted.
Hcav'n's cberubirit hors'd

Upon the fi^htWfs couriers of the air.
Shall blow the horrid deed in ev'ry eye.
Shaifffeart.
That tears (hall drown the wind.

Some cberub finilhes what yon begun.
Prior.
And to a miracle improves a tunc.
Cheru'bick. aJj, [ijom che>ub.'\ Atigelick ; relating to the cherubim. ..
Thy words

Attentive, and with more delighted ear,
Pivioe iDSuv&sa l.iiitve bsaxdj ihaa whca
!

at remote diftances from the fruit, on
the fame tree.
The outer coat of thefruit is very rough, and has two or three,
nuts included in each hulk or covering.

;

chirp ; to ufe a cheerful voice.

This tree was formerly in greater plenty, as may be proved by the old buildings in London, which were, for the
moft part, of this timber ; which is equal

The birds
Frame to thy fong their cheerful cheruplng ;

Or hold their peace for fhame of thy fweet lays.
Sfenfer.

in value to the beft oak, and, for many
purpofes, far exceeds it ; particularly for

Che'slip. »./ A fmall vermin, that lies
Skinner.

under ftones or tiles.

nice and
n. f. [echecs, Fr.]
abftrufe game, in which two fets of men

are moved in oppofition to each other.
This game tlie Pe.lian magi did invent,
The force of Eaftern wifdom to exprcfs J

From thence to bufy Europeans fent.

And ftyl'd by modem Lombards penfive chtfs.
Dcrtbam.

So have I feen a king on cbefs
(His rooks and knights withdrawn,
His queen and bilhips in diftrel's)
Shifting about, grow Icfs and lefs.
Dryden.
With here and there a pawn.
fpecies of Wild
Che'ss-apple. n. f.

A

'

Service.

To cafe the paiu of coward tlmugbt.

Prwr.

Che'ss-man. n.f. [from chej'i and maii.]

A puppet for chefs.
A company of cbrji-men ft.inding on the fame
we left them,

fquares of the chefs-board where

'I'hus, like a Ikilful cleji-playcr,

he draws out

men, and makes his pawns of

ufe to

his

Dryjen.

greitor petfons.

Che'ssom. ». /. Mellow earth.
The tender ch:Jlim and mellow earth is the bcft,
being mere mould, between the two extremes of
clay and fand j efpecially if it be not loomy and
Bacon^s Natural Uijiory.
binding.

CHEST, n.f. [cyp, Sax. cijhi, Lat.]
1.

making veffels for liquors ; it having a

A box of wood, or other materials, in
which things are laid up.
He will feek there, on my word neither prcfs,
:

trunk, well, vault, but he hath an abftradt
for the remembrance of fuc!i places. Shakeffeare.
But more have been by avarice oppreft.
And heaps of money crouded in the chrft. Dryden.
chi-JI,

A cafe with

2.

A Chest of Drawers.

3.

moveable boxes or drawers.
The trunk of the body, or cavity from
the Ihoulders to the belly.
have round faces, or broad cbejls, or
JhouUers, have feldom or never long necks.
Brcivn.
He dcfcribes another by the largencfc of his
cbcjf, and breadth of his (Iiouldcrt.
ai

Pope's Notes on the Jliad,

To Chest, v, a,

property, when once thoroughly fcafonea, to maintain its bulk conftantly, and
is
not fubjcft to ihrink or fwcll, like
Miller.
other timber.
2. The fruit of the cheftnut tree.
A woman's tongue,
That gives not half fo great a blow to th' car,
will
a
Shaktfpcziv.chcfiK:it in a farmer's ftre.
As
Oclober has a bnlkct of fervices, medlars,

anj^

cheflrMts, and fruits that ripen at the latter time.

Peacham ov Draiv'iti^.
3.

The name of a brown colour.
His hair is of a good colour.
An excellent colour your cbf^nut was everthe only colour.
SbaUfl ar:,.
Mcrab's long hair was glofTy cbcjtnut brown.
:

Che'ss-board. n f. [from chtfs and
board.] The board or table on which the
game of chefs is played.
And cards arc dealt, and iheji-boardi brought,

hia

,

A

CHESS,

Such

Sbakeffeare.

1

To Che'rup. "u. 71. [from cheer perhaps
from cheer up, corrupted to chenip.] To

Tabernacle, were called

by Mofes, Exnd. xxvL
cunning work.

See Castor.
[ch'a^ai£ne,Ft.
Che'stnut.
I n.f.
Che'stnut-tree. 5 cajfaiiea, La.^.]
The tree hath katkins, which are placed,

Miller.

umbelliferous plant.

we fay they arc all in the fame place, or uned by the fea, but joined to the contiLocke.
moved.
nent by a narrow neck or illhiaus.
and
Chert, n. /. [(tova quartz,. Germ.] A, Che'ss-playhr. n.f. [from che/s
player.] A gamefter at chefs.
kind of flinr.
Flint is nioft commonly found in form of nodules ; but ''tis fomctimcs found in thin (Iratae,

Havin? a

ed.

Che'rvil. »./ \_chesrophjnum,luZl.\ An

A pe-

ninfula ; a traft of land almoll Curround-

chejQ.]

chell; as, broad-chefted, narrow-cheft-

Ch e'r u B N.ar//. [from f/^^nr^.] Angelical. Che'ster.

Shiiii'f^are.

rxp'tf.

Chersone'se. n. /.

Che'sted. eiJj. [from

Cheruikk fongs by night from neighb'ring hills

chiefly planted for preferving.

This fruit was brought out of Pontus at the
time of the Mithridatic viftory by Lucullus, in
the year of Rome 680 ; and was broughtinto Britain about I20 years afterwards, which was Aim.
Dm. 55 ; and was foon after fpread through mofl

C ET E'

\Jtom the noun.] »To

repofitc in a chert ; to hoard.

Chest-foundering, ti.f. A difeafe in
It comes near to a pleurify, or
horfes.
pcripneumony, in a human body.

farrier' J DiHioiiary.

A fpecies of plum.
CHEFJLTER.n.f [che-valier, Vx.]
Che'ston. «. /.

A.

knight ; a gallant ftrong man.
Rc.iowr.ed Talbot doth expeft my aid
And I am lowted by a traitor villain.
And cannot help the noble chevalier. Shakcfpectrc*-

CHRVAUX de Frife. n. f. [Er. The fingular Cheval de Frife is fcldom ufed ]
The Friefland horfe, which is a piece cf
timber, larger or fmaller, and traveri'ed
with wooden fpikes, pointed with iron,
five or fix feet long ; ul'ed in defending
a paiTage, flopping a breach, or making
It
a retrenchment to llop th- cavalry.
is alfo called a turnpike, or tourniquet.
Chiimben,.
Che'ven. n.f. [che'vefne, Fr.]
river
fi(h, the fame wi:h chub.
Che'veril. n.f. J^chcvenau, Fr.] Akid;;
kidleather.
Obfolete.

A

A fentence is but a cbcveril plove to a good wit

s-

how quickly the wrong fide may be turned outward.

Shakefpiarf-

Which g'fts the capacity

Of your foft cbeveril confciencc would receive,
Shakifpeare,
If you might plcafe to ftrctch it.
O, here 's a wit nfchcicril, that ftretches from
Shahefprarc,
an inch narrow tn an eil broid.

CUE'FISJNCE.

n.

f

[cheiufavce, Fr.]

Enterprife ; achievement,
not in ufe.

A v/ord now

Fortune, the foe of famous chcv'fance.
Seldom, faid Guyon, yields to virtue aid,. Spcnfer*

CHE'FRON. n.f [French.] One of the
honourable ordinaries in heraldry. It
reprefents two rafters of a houfe, fet up
Harris.
as they ought to ftand.
To CHEW. m. a. [ctfcjiji'an, SftX. kauivent,
Dutch. It is very frequently pronounced
chaiv, and perhaps properly.]

•

CHI'
To grind with the teeth

1.
>

;

to malticate.

iriiiite tiuica, proceeding on dilleinper>

CHICK.
CHl'cKtK

All my pretty onet I
Wiiat, all my pretty ibkkeni, and their dam,
Sbakeff>iare.
At one fell fwoop
For when the ihell is broke, out comes a chick.

While it is a chicly and hath no fpurs, nor canPMijii.

Ctens verd'rous pallura.

not hurt, nor hath fceit die motion, yet he readily
Unit.
praQifetli it.
Even lince (he was a fe'cn-night old, they fay.
day
Was cha.le and humble to her dying
Nor chick, nor iien, was known to difobey.
Drydcn^s Pahla.
Having the notion that one hid the egg out
of which the other was hatched, I have a clear
Locke.
idea of the relation of dam and chick.
On rainy days alone X dine,
Upjn a click and pint of wine ;
On rainy days 1 dine alone.
Stvi/t.
And pick my chicken to the bone.

By cieving, folid aliment is divided into fmall
parts : in a human body, there is no other inftruBy
to perform this action but tlte teeth.
the aftion of ctnuing, tlie fpitiic and mucus are
(bueeaed from the gUnds, and mlxnJ with the aliment ; which ailion, if it be long continued, will
turn the aliment into a fort of ciiyle.
rr.cnt

Aihuttmi on Ainncnti.
ruminate in the

or

thoughts.
While the fierce monk does at hit trial ftaad,

He cliw revenge, abjuring his offence

:

murder in his hand.

Guile in his tongue, and

A wordof tcindemefs.

1.

My Ariel, chiik.

He ftabs his judge, to prove his innocencr. Prior,
Heaven 's in my mouth,

lowed, and fome few to be (heaved and cigcftcd
that is, fome books are to be read only in parts
others to be read, but not curioufly; ai;J fome
Bacon.
few to be read wholly, with attention.
i/.

n.

I will with patience

Fife.

CHICA'NE. «./. [chicane, Fr.

derived

by Menage from the Spanilh word cbico,
little.]

The art of protrafling a conteft by
petty objeftion and artifice.

Tlie general part of the civil law concerns not
the chUint of private cafes, but the affiirs and
intercourfe of civilized nations, grounded upon the
Lockt.
principles of rcafon.
His attornies have hardly one trick left j they
arc at an end of all their chkani,
Arhuthtict'i Hillary of J'.hn Bull.

This fenfe is only
a. Artifice in general.
in familiar language.

I

-v.n.

Exra»
chief in this trefpafs.
Your country, chief in arms, abroad defend ;

At home, with morals, arts, and laws amend.
Pope,

its

being of

Chi'ckling. n:f, £from chick,]

A fmall

chicken.

Chi'ckpeas. n. f. [from f^/Vi and pea.]

A kind of degenerate pea.

applied to perfons.

am a child to chiding.

I

officers of the army.

Is pain to them

Lcfs hardy to endure ? courageous chief!
The firft in flight from pain. Milton's Par. Lofl.
After or before were never known
Such chiefs; aseachan army fccm'd alone. Dryi.
wit 's a feather, and a chief a rod ;
An honed man 's the oob'.eft work of God. Po{(.
prudent chief not always muft difplay
His pow'rs in equal ranks, and fair array ;
But with th' occafion and the place comply.
Conceal his force, nay feem fometimes to fly. Pofe.

Sbakeffeare.

A

A

Above the waves as Neptune (hew'd his face,
JValler.

You look, as if yon ftern philofopher
Had juft now chid you.

jiddlfcn.

woman of better falhion in the parifli

happened to be abfent from church, they were
fure of a vifit from him, to chide and to dine with
her.

Sti/ift.
_

To drive with reproof.
Margaret my queen, and ClifTord too,

Have chid me from the battle.
reproach :
3. To blame J

W

things.

Clarendon,

Lefs pain, lefs to be fled ? or thou than they

To chide the winds, and fave the Trojan race.

2.

Samuel.

armies ; a captain.

And riiii her barking waves into attention. Milton.

If any

is

Chief, n.f. [from the adjeftive.]
1. A military commander ; a leader df

Scylla wept.

part of thefe reports ; and only to preferve fuch as
difcoTcred molt of the chicanery and futlity of the
jlrlutbmt,
praQice.

chiefer

He fometimes denied admiflion to the cbiefejl

Shaktjficare.

I

comparative

the

We befeech you, bend you to remain
Here in the cheer and comfort of our eye.
Our chiefefi courtier, coufin, and our fon. Shak.
Doeg an Edomite, the cbiefrfi of the herdmen.

And fly like chidden Mercury from Jove. Shak.
Thofe, that do teach your babe«,
Do it with gentle means, and eafy talks
He might hsve chid me fo : for, in good faith,

phiftry ; mean arts of wrangle.
His anger caufed him to deftroy the greateft

Miller.

:

preter. chid or chode,

part. chiJ or chidden, [ciban. Sax.]
1. To reprove ; to check ; to correft with

Chica'nery. Tt.f. [chicanerie, Fr.] So-

tender nor well wfted.

Ijocke*

never found*

the hard fweliings of the breaft, occafioned by
fViJeman.
milk.

Lo<ke,

though neither fo

propcrW

all

ty fophifter ; a trifling difputant ; a
wrangler.
This is the way to diftinguifh the two mod
4ifi':rent things I know, a logical chicaner from, a

and eaten as pe«s,

Miller.

Green mint, or cbickivred, are of good ufe in

prolong a conteft by tricks.

Chiches. n./. See Chickpeas.
Chi'chling Vetch, h. /, [lathyrus,
Lat.] In Germany they are cultivated,

profrcuted it.

4. It is ufed by fome writers with a fuperlative termination ; but, I think, im-

The name of a plant.

Cmica'ner. ».y; [chicaneur,VT.'\ A pet-

man of rcafon.

ordinate.
I came to have a good general view of the
apoftle's main purpde in writing the epiftle, and
the chief branches of his difcourfe wherein he

Ch i'ckweed. n.f. [from chick andowwi/.]

To

y
Proverbs.

Capital ; of the firft order ; that to
which other parts are inferior, or fub-

3.

Chi'ckenpox. n. f. An exanthematous

:

Eminent; extraordinary.
fcparateth ciii/" friends.

Prologue to Upaitijh Fryar.

Prior,

[chicaner, 'Ft,'\

Principal ; moll eminent ; above the
i n any refped.
Thefe were the chief of the officers that were

Afroward man foweth ftrife, and a whifperer

To fright the ladies firft, and then be parted.

words

Sbakejftafef

[chef, the head, Fr.]

reft

2.

To CHIDE. V. a.

love no chiders. Sir.

CHIEF, adj.

over Solomon's works.
i Kingt.
The hand of the princes and rulers hath been

ful.

diftemper, fo called from
no very great danger.

A rebukcr;

a reprover.
Not her that chides. Sir, at any hand, I pray.>~

Sbakejfeare.

Chide him for faults, and do it reverently.
When you pcv.-elve his blood indin'd to mirth.

And fave his forces by chicane.

Chica'ke.

Chi'der. n. f. [from chide.]

Purfue your trac?c of fcandal-picking,

Unwilling then in ams to meet.
He ftrove to lengthen fti campaign.
5ff

Should the approach of this wild river break.
And {land unthaken yours.
iihakijfeare,

Where 'tis agreed by bullies, cbickenhtartcd,

Old politicians tbew on wifdom palt.
And blunder on in bufmefs to the lall.

My doty.
As does a rock againA the chiding flood.

Sivift.
Yjur hints, that Stella is no chicken.
Chi'ckenhearted. acij. [fiom chicien
and heart.] Cowardly ; timorous ; fear-

hear, and find a time

To make a noife.

3.

Now we fet up for tilting in the pit,

Till then, my noble friend, cUtv upon this. Shah
Inculcate the doftrinc of difobeJience, anJ then
ieavc the multitude to cbc^ upon 't. J^^EJirange,

1.

The bvfinefs of the (late does him offence.
And he does chide with you.
Sbakeffearet

Then, ChUc, ftill go on to prate

ruminate.

Swift,

To quarrel with.

2.

Of thirty-fix and thirty-eight

To champ upon; to

Shakefpeare,

The mother fcream'd, the father chid.
Where can this idle wench be hid ?

A term for a young girl.

3.

Sljk.ffrari.
As if I did but cbivi its namt.
Some bojks are to be talK'd, others to be fw.il-

Prior.

Next m -rn, betimes, the bride was miffing ;

1.

This is thy charge.

To tafte withoft fwallowlng.
J.

To Chew.

To Chide. 1/. n.
1. To clamour ; to fcold.
What had he to do to chidi at me ?

David.

Defcending gently, where the lowing herd

meditate ;

DrydtK.

my thoughtlefs haflej

For, the work perfected, the joy was paft.

!

The \ile»

To

delay.

And founulns, o'er the pebbles, ebid your Bay.
I ehidlht folly of

hen, or fmall bird.

Sbalijfiart.

l>Ae!n| through the forell,
Ctrtumjth!: ibod of fweetand bitter fmcy. Slal.
Thii pioui ch«t, that never fuck'd the blood,
Nor (bnu'd the flefli, of lambs. Dtydais fthhi.

2.

Winds murmut'd through the leavu your long

tiecitn,

The young of a bird, particularly of a

I .

gefted,

Sax.

,
J

as a ftngular noun.]

When ca|>ic>l ctlmei, eUto'J, fwallow'd, and i\Appear before us ?

7 n. J. [acen,

Dutch. CAici^» is, I believe.
the old plural of chid, though now ufed
«:.

Shall not be winK'd at, bow {htU we ftretch our

\

CHI

C II I

Shakrffrare,

applied to

2.

In Chief, in law.

In capite, by per-

fon.il fervice.

All fums dcmaftdable, either for licence of alie.
nation to be made of lands ho'iden in chief, or for
the pardon of any fuch alienation already made
without licence, have been flayed in the way to the
hanaper.
Bacon.
I (hall be proud to hold my dcpendance on you
in chief, as 1 do part of my fmall foitune in Wiltfllite.

Dryden.

3-I»

I fliall fee

The winged vengeance overtake fuch children.

A long increafe of children's children told, j^ddij.

a bead { being without a leader.
And chitjlfji armies dr»z'd out the campaign.
And navies ^awn'd for orders on the main. P:pc.
C H I'e F L y . adv. [from chief. ] Principally ; eminently; more than common.
Any man who will conCder the nature of an
q:ic

In the language of fcripture.
Or.e weak in kiwwledge.
Laiab»
Such as are young in grace.

4.

Such as are humble and docile.

Dryden.
S-wift.

rent paid to the lord paramount.
They fliall be well able to live upon thofe lands,
her majefty reafon^bJe ckie/rii, and alfo
givea compeccot maintenance unto the garrifons.
Spenjcr^i Inland.
Would the referved rent at this day be any
more than a fraall ckiefrie ?
Siv'ift.

to yield

Chi'eftain. »./. [frooif;^/^, »./ captain.]

That forc'd their ibiftam, for his (afety's fake,
(Their ctlfijin Humb«r named was aright)
l/'nto the mighty ftream him to betake,
Wlicre ht an end of ba:tle and of life did make.
Fairy Siutct.

The head of a clan.

ftow is he numbered among the clildrer. of God,
and his lot is among the faints
Jfi[dom.
In the New Teftament, believers are commonly
called children of Ood.

Chie'vance. n.f. [probably froiaache'V'
Fr. purchafe.]

Traffick, in which

money is extorted j as difcount.

Now

obfolcte.

Theie were good laws againlt ufury, the baftard
ufe of mimey ; and againft unlawful clin'ara:
and exchanges, which is baftard ufur\.
Bacn.

C H i'l B A N

II
». /. [from chill, cold, and
.
blain ; fo that TemfU fecms mitUkcn in

his etymology, or has written it

wrong

to ferve a purpofe.] Sores made by froft.
I remembered the cute of ct'tM/uint when I
was a boy (which may be called the children's
gout), by burning at tlic fire.
Tmf/i.

CHILD, n.f. in the plural CHiLDaEN.
[cilb. Sax.]

An infant, or very young perfon.

I .

In a|e, to wifli for youtii la full as vain,
As for a youth to turn a cli!d again.
Dirtam.

We

Ibould no more be k|ndcr to one child than
to another, than we are tender of one eye more
than of th- other.
\VEprangi.

The young lad muft not be ventured abroad al
_
tight or ten, for fear of what may happtn to the
tender child; though he then runs ten times leu
rifqae than at fixceen.
hocU.
The firoke of death is nothing children endure
It, and the gTareft cowards lind irnopain.
H'aht.
:

z.

One in the line of filiation, oppofed to

Chi'ldhood. «._/;

The ftate of children; or, the time la
which we are children : it includes in-

1.

Ye are all the children of Goi, by faith in Jefus
Chrift. Gal. iii. 26.

A girl child.

5.

Mercy on '5

!

•

fancy, but is continued to puberty.

Culinel.

Now I haveftain'd the cbildbtxd of our joy

Not in ufe.

With blood, remov'd but little from our own.

a bcarne, a very pretty warne !

A boy, or child, I wonder ?

expofed,

or tnlcrn
away young, and afterwaids have approached to
their pvcau ptelcoce, the paieAtSi thovgh they

\_[rom ciild ; cilbhab.

Sax,]

Sbakcfpeare,

Sbakefpeare.

The fons of lords and gentlemen

be

Spcnfer on Ireland,

Macduff", this noble paHton,
Child of integrity, hath from my foul

Wip'd the bl.'.ck fcruples.
7. Ta ie ivitk Child.

Seldom have I ceas'd to eye

Thy infancy, thy childhood, and thy youth. Milton,
Tlic fame authority that the a£lions of a man

S baiifpeare.

To be pregnant.

have with us in our childhood, the fame, in every
period of life, has the praflice of all whom wc regard as our fuperiours.
Rogers^

If it mui^ftand Itill, let wives with child
Pray that their burthen may not fall thi; day,
Left that their hopes prodigioufly be croft,

iihjk.

Child, -v. n. [from the noun.]

To

bring children.
The fpring, the fummer,
The cbilding autumn, angry winter, change
Their wonted liveries.

Arbuiinnt.

/

Chi'ldbfarinc. participial fuhfanti've.
[from child and bear.] The aCt of bear-

The properties of a child.
Their love in early infancy began,

And role as childhood ripen'd into man.

Drydttu

Chi'ldish. adj. \ixovA child.]
1, Having the qualities of a child; trifling j ignorant ; limple.
Learning hath its infancy, when it Is but beginning and almoU childijh ; then its youth, when
it is luxuriant and juvenile.
Bacon's EJJ'ays.

ing children.

To thee
Pains only in cbildteatingvitxt foretold.
And, bringing forth, fooa tecompens'd with joy,
Fruit of thy womb.
Milim's Paradifc Loft.
The timorous and irrefolute Sylvia has dem jrred till file is paft childtrarir^.
Addifon,

jirhutbnot on AimenlSm

nourilhing aliment.

3.

Shakiffeare.

of diet, in fuch it begins with

The time of life between infancy and
puberty.
Infancy and cbildhoed demand thin, copious,

2.

As to ciildinfr women, young vigorous people,
after irregularities

Ihould

trained up in learning from their childhoods.

other.

2.

Becoming only children ; trifling ; puerile.

Mufidorus being elder by three or four years«
there was taken away the occafion of cbildifl) con-

Sidny.

tentions.

Chi'lobed. n.f. [from child dnd led.]
The ftate of a woman bringing a child,

The lion's whelps flic faw how he did bear.
And lull in rugged arms withouten cbild'i/h fear.

or being in labour.

Spenfer*

The funerals of prince Arthur, and of queen
Elizabeth, who died in childbed ia the Tower.

When I was yet a child, no childifh play
To me was pleafing all my mind vras let
;

Serious to learn and know.

BiHon.
Pure, as when warti'd from fpntofchildied rtain.

the molt filly and cbildifl} thing in the world.

Parariife Regained,

Yet thefe, tho' poor, the pain of cbiUbf/hcir.

Siillntgflett.

One that hath newly Icaru'd to fpcak and go

Dryden.
Let no one be aftually married, till /he hath the
childbed pillows,

Loves childiflj plays.
Rofcommoiit
They have fpoiled the walls with ebildifb fentenccs, that confilt often in a jingle of words.

Speflator.

Women in childbed are in the cafe of perfons
wounded.

Parddtfi Regained^

Tho fathers looked on the worfliip of images 94

ylrbulhnot on Diet.

Addif<n on Italy.

[from child ^nA
n.f.
Travail ; labour ; the time of
iirti.J
bringing forth; the ad of bringing

By converfation the ebi/dijb humours of their
younger days might be worn out.
Abuthnol's Uiftory of John Bull,

Chi'ldbirth.

forth.

The mother of Pyrocles, after her eiildiirih,
died.

Chi'ldishlv. adv. \iiom childip.] In a
childilh trifling way ; like a child.
Together with his fame their infamy wss
who had fo raflily and childiflAy cjefteJ
him.
Hsoker.
Some men are ef excellent judgment in their
own profeflions, but cbildijhly unlkilful in any

Sidney

A kernel void of any tafte, but not fo of virtue,

fpread,

efpccially for women travailing in cbildhirih.

Carevj't Survey.
In the wh-ile fex of women, Ood hath decreed
the Iharptlt pains of cbildhirih ; to fliew, that
,

the parent.

Where children have been

voyage on the day when cbilderir.a: day fell, dotk
Cartiv.^
to the mariner.

!

hamorrhnges.

It broke, and abfolutrly fubdued all the lords
and chiifuiasof tht Irifliry.
Dav.nm Ireland.

amt,

as cminous to the filherman, as the beginning of a

of God.

Ti)

A leader; a commander.

s.

Alattbe^v.

A fmall 6. Any thing the produft or effed of an-

Chi'efrie. n.f. [from chief]

I.

Jobi:.

i

\

Thofc parrs of the lAngdom, where the number
and eftates o{ the dlifentcrs rkiefiy lay.

which the feaft of the Holy Innocents i«
folemnized, which weak and fuperftitious perfons think an unlucky day.
To talk of hares, or fuch uncouth things, proves

iCarmtl.

The children of light, the children of darknefs
who follow light, who remain in darkneis.
The elcci, theblelfeJ, are alfo called the ihildren

poem, what adioos it defcribes, and what

work full of diificulty.

Shatefpeare,

;

perfons they are eb'ujly whom it informs, will find
it a

bow

He ctilded as 1 fathcr'd.

The defcendants of a man, how remote Chi'ldermas day. [from dbild and
foever, are called children
as tht childmcfs.] The day of the week, throughren of Edom, the children of Ifrael.
out the year, anfwering to the day on

3.

ing htt to wife, gave her tor a dowry the Mtfd:m
and foTtreignty of all flowers and green herb?.
Sf!r.ftri Kul. Glojf.

Chi'epless. a(^". [from chief.'] Wanting

How light and'-portable my pain feems now.
When that which makes me bend, makes the king

He, in a fruitful wife's embraces »^Id,

Sove-

Zephyrus being in love with Chloris, and covet-

with a child.

'

So unexhaufted her perfeflions were,

That for more children fhe had more to C^irt^ryd.

4. In heraldry.

Chi'efdom. n.f. [from c/^/V/".]
Not in ufc.
reignty.

Chi'lded. adj. [fTOm child.] Furnilhed

SbateJ'feart.

Sfinftr.

The ibief is fo called o( the Ftvncli word fit/",
the head or upper part : tb'3 poifefTes the upper
third part of rhcefcutcheon. Piach::ii:onDraio]ng.

He to his wife, before the time aflign'd
For childbirth came, thus bluntly fpokchis mini.
Dryden>

have not known them, have had a fetret Jo>', or
other alteiation, thereupon.
Bacon's Nat. liijhry,

3. Ib Sfenfer it feenjs to fignify fomewljat
like achievement ; a marfc of diftinftion.
Wiicre be the nof'-gjys that flie dight for thee r
The coloured chipJcti wrought with a chiij\
The fcnottilh ruii-rings, and gilt rofemary ?

•

C H I

C H P

C H I

thc;« is no fttcccxempc from forrow.
Taylor't Holy L'lving.

thing befides.

Hayward.

Chi'ldishness. n.f [from childi/^.]
I.

Puerility J triflingueis.

T)k

'

C H I

C H I

Chill, v. a. [from the adjcflive,}
To make cold.

To make the rough recital aptiy cUme,

C H I
The aflionj of ckiUiJhieJs, and tinfalKionablc
carrUge, time and age will of itl'elf be fute to reLr}ekt.
form.
Nothing !n the world could give a truer idea of
•the fuperftition, credulity, and MIdiJhtiifi of the

Roman catholick religioo.

7*0
1

Or bring the fum of Gallia's lal> to rhime,
'Tis mighty hard. _
Priar.

Age has not yet

^

To correfpond in relation or proportion.

2.

So (hrunk my itnews, or fo tbJl i my veins.

Father and

hulband and wife, and ftich
other correlative terms, do belong one to anather
and, through cullom, do readily chime, and anCwer
one another, in people's memoiies.
Lxkt,

But confcious virtue in my bread remains. Dryjen.
Heat burns his rife, froit chUlt hia fetting beam

jiddi/mtnlta/y.

,

2. Harmlefihefs.
Speak thoui boy ;
Perhaps thy Mdi/hmfi will move him more

Than can our reafoos.

And vex the world with uppofite extremes. Creech.
Each changing fcafon does its poifon bring ;

Sbaktffeare.

Samuel.

; to dejeft ; to difcourage.
Every thought on God cbilh the gaiety of his
fpirits, and awakens terrors which be cannot bear.

To blaft with cold.

A fen-

.

harmonically, or with juft confonancy.
With li.'l-d arms they order cv'ry bio*',
And chime ihcir founding hammers in a row >
With labour'd anvils ^tna gr^>:i;ts below.

Ihivering
.

AriuihrM.

affeSs llie body.

Chi'lly. aJj, [from f/&/'//.]

Somewhat

cold.

A thou-

Dryden'i Georpcki,

To ftrike a bell with a hammer.
CHIME'RA. «./. [Chimera, L«.] Avaia
2.

A chilly fweat bedews
My (hudd'ring limbs.

Sbaiejjieare,

Chi'liad. n.f. [from x*'^**?-]

Smiths

To C H I M B T. a.
1
To move, or ftrike, or caufe to found

If the patient furvivcs tliree days, the acutenefs

,

Phiri/ii.

and svild faixy, as remote from re4lity

Chi'lness. »./. [from dill.'] Coldnefs ;
fand ; a coUcdUon or fum containing a
want of warmth.
thoufand.
If you

We make cycles and periods of years, as decads,
ChXLIa'edRON. «./. [from ;^;iXia.]

the idea of the figure
may be very confufcd, though that of the number be very diflind.
Lccic.
iiues,

as the exillence of the pcetical Chimsr.t,

a monller feigned to have the head of a

a

lion, the belly of a goat, and ^the tail of

all

a dragon.

the body.
Bacon.
This while he thinks, he lifts aloft his dart,

A

In lhort,'the force of dreams is of a piece,
CHm<ras all, anJ mjre abfurd, or lefs. Dryd. Fab,

A generous chihtfi feizcs ev'ry part.

figure of a ihoufand fides.
In a man, who fpeaks of a chmaedron, or a
body of a thoufand

come out of the fun fuddcnly into

ihade, there followcth a chilnejs or Ihivering in

centuries, cbiliadt, fot the ufe of computation in
hlftory.
Holder.

No body joins the voice of a (heep with the

The veins pour back the blood, and fortify the
Drydcr.

heart.

Chime, n.f.

ihape of a

hoife, to be the complex ideas of any
fubdances, unlefs he has a mind to fill his
head with chimeras, and his difcouife with unintcliigiblc words.
Locke.

The end

[kime, Dutch.]

real

of a barrel or tub.

Ghilifa'ctive. ailj. [fromfA/7r.] That CHIME, n.f. [The original of this word C H
which makes chile.

is

chiamarc, to call, becaule the cbhne calls
to church. Perhaps it is only foftened
from chiitne, or churm, an old word for
the found of many voices, or inibuments making a noife together.]
The confonant or harmonick found of
many correfpondent inftrumcnts.

'

'which has the quality of making chile.

We fliould rather rely upon a chUifaHtir^ mencies or individuals, whofe ftomachs peculiarly d!f-

folve lapideous bodies,

,

1

Bt-tnvn.

Chilij'ica'tion. n.f. \fTom chile.'\ The
aft of making ^ile.

That, as we do llrike a tune.
In our dance Ihail make a chiiite,
The found

Nor will we aihi m that iron is indigelled in the

3(

Dull; not warm ; not forward:

as,

a

Love virtue, /he alone is free ;
She can teach you how to climb
Higher ihan the fphery ctiire.

Wc have heard tht ci.-ntii at midnight. Shakiff).
The conefpondence of proportion or

4.

I'evcral

degrees of

llltiilitude )

one to have

a fort of tbill

Derbam'i Phj/fa-TMigy.

The paffage through which the fmoke
afcends from the fire in the houfe.
CLimmes with fco;n rcjefling fmoke.

S-unft.

The turret raifed above the roof of the
houfe, for conveyance of the fmoke.
The night has been unruly : where wc lay.

Our climmcs were blown down,
3.

Sbakejpcari.

The fire-place.
The chimney
Is fouth the chamber;

Chafte Dian bathing.

a.nd the

chimneypiece,
Shake/peart.

The fire which the Clioldeans worlhippad for a
god, i« crept into every man's cbur;ney.
Raleigh's Hifiery.

as in feveral pro-

hardly
think it worth ilirriog from their chimney fides to
obtain.

,

&iuift on Sac. Trft,

! wh'ch harmonious Chi'mney-corner. n.f. [from chimney
cbimeiy the voice of" reafon is often drowned.
andcernn:] The fire-fide; the feat on
Grivj^i C'/mshgla.

know

Co-well.

purtlons, one to another ;

Chi!-

•faaut Ms fracuidia and lie.id,

A toll for paffage

Low offices, which fome neighbours

The conceptions of things are placed in their

of temper.

fantaftically.

CHI'MNEY. n.f. [cheminee, French.]

Mlhcn.

In this fenfe
but ftruck with hammers.
it is always ufedin the plural, chimes.

Vainly; wildly;

law word for a road.]
through a foreft.

Love firft invented verfe, and furm'd the rhime,

ncfs ; cold.
very well

cal.]

Chi'minacb. »./. [from f/?i/'OT»>, an old

2

The motion meafur'd, harm..nia'd therfiwe. Dryd.
3. The found of bells, not rung by ropes',

4. Depreflfcd ; dejcfted ; difcouraged.

I

Chime'rically. aJv. [from chimeri-

I.

relatio'n.

Chill, n.f. [from tht adjjedUve.]

that pevfons offucha liiauvini/exiftence are proper aOors in an epic poem.
Sj/i^ntor,

The correfpondence of found.

2.

chill reception.

5. Unaffedlionate ; cold

Notwithllanding the iinenefs of this allegory

Of inftroments, that made melodious chime.
Was heard of harp and organ. MihmiPar, LoJI.

CHrLL. aJj. [cele. Sax ]
Cold; that which is cold to the touch.
And all my plants 1 lave from nightly ill.
Of noifoine winds, and blafling vapours fix//* Mih.
2. Cold ; having the lenfation of cold ;
(hivering with cold.
Myheutaod my cM// veins fteeze withdefpair.

Ben "Jonjcn.

.

may atone for it in fomc meafure, I cannot tliink

Hang our fiiaggy thighs with beils

ftomach of tijeoftriche ; but we fufpedl this cftccl
to proceed not from any liquid reduOion, or tendcace to ehdtficatiai, by the power of natural hc,it.
Brotvu't Vulgar Erroun.

\.

;

;

Chimfa'ctory. aJJ. [from<rZi/7f.] That
llmum, or digeftive preparation drawn from fpe-

I
e'r I c a l ezc/j. [from ciimera.l Imaginary ; fanciful; wildly, vainl}|, or faatallically conceived ; fantailick.

Jutiius and MinJI^enu fup-

Skiimer
it corrupted from cimbal
from gamme, or gamut Henfoaui from

fiBim matidoa, oralimental convcifion.
Brcnun^i yulg^r Erreurs.

doubtful.

pofe

Whether thh be not effefted by fomc way of
eorrolion, rather than any proper digcllion, cbili-

of courfe^

But with tlie meaner tribe I'm forc'd to ckiwief

fation of Ihivering cold.
or

will,

And, wanting ftrength to rife, defcend to rhime.

SlackmDre.

cbillinef:

tu,

To jingle; to clatter.

Or foon decay, by fnows immod'rate cbill'd,
By vs'inds are blalicd, or by lightning kiil'd.

of the pain abates, and a

have been uf^d

I

perhaps the genuine mcani-ig of the author, fcena
hailh, (Irange, and uncouth to me.
Ltcit,

5.

Chi'lliness. ».yr [from chilly.}

to agree.

make all chime that way ; and make another, and

The fruits perilh on the ground.

Sfclialor.

het that hath more than motherly care.
Biiker.
1 thought the remnant of mine age
Should have been cbctllh'd by her childliti duty.

language,

iJjgrrj.

3.

;

Any fcQ, whofe rcifonings, interpretation, and

To deprefs

2.

Childleft Aov art, etUdJrfs nmain : fo death
Shall be deccivM his glut. MUtcnsParadtfc LoB,

Chi'i.dlike. aJj, \Jtom cbiU !caci like.'\
Becoming or beieening a child.
Who cau owe no lefs dun diliUikc obedience to

To fuit with

4.

Plilifs.

Baccn'i Effays,

She can give the reafon why one died childUji.

AriuitrM'i Hifi. ef "John Bull,

Affrights the wives, or chills the virgin's blood,

care of pofterity is moft in them that have no poftcrity.

to fall in with.

Provokes to arms ; or trumpet's clangor flirill

tjors have proceeded from childleft men; which
have fought to exprcfs the images of their minds,
failed: fo the

;

He not only fat quietly and heard his father raiU
cd at, but often chimed in with the difccuKe.

frier.

A man /hall fee the nobleft works and foundawhere thofe of their bodies have

To agree

3.

Now no more the drum

children ; without offspring.
As thy fword hath made women ehUdlefs, fo
ihtU thy mother be cbilJIefi among women.
I

,

Rheums cbill the winter, agues blaft the fpting,

Cm'tDLZis, aJ;, [from chilt/.] Without

fon,

9^0

Chime, 'v. n. [from the noun.]

t .

To found ia biu-mony or confoaanc.:.

each end of the firegrate : ufually noted
in proverbial language for being theplace of idlers.

C H I

CHI

C H I

Yet forae old men

The draw was laid below

He that !n his line 4id tbini the long nlb'd

Tell ftnries of you in their d'mny-ecrvir. Detitam.

Apennine.

0! ''lips and feiewood was the Iccgnd row,

Drydin.

Ch i'm k e y p e c e. n.f. [from chimney and CHINK, n.f. [cman, to gape. Sax.] A

Drydens Fal'es,

1

/lifce.]

The ornamental piece of wood,-

fmall aperture Ion g wife ; an opening or
gap between the parts of any thing.
Pyramus and ThiJbe did talk through the chink

or Hone, that is fet round the fire-place.
and bright'-n tiie marble hearths and
rhimruyf-iic^i with ac*uuc dipt in gpeafe.
S^.v'.ft.
Polifh

of a wall.
Shahefp, Midfutnm^r ^ighl^s Dretin:,
Plagues alfo have been raifed by anointing the
Baccn's Nat. HiJ}.
chinks of doors, and the like.
Though birds have na epiglottis, yet. they lb
contract the chink of their larinx, as to prevent the
admiffion of wet or dry indigefted.
Broiun's Vulgar Erroun.
Other inventions, falfe and abfurd, that are like
fo many chinks and holes to difcover the rottenr.ei's
of the whole fabrick.
South.
In vain flie fearchM each cranny of the houfc.
Each gaping chink impervious to a inoufe. S'zvift.

Chi'mneysweeper. n.f. [from chimney
and Jhvee/>er.]
1.

One whofe trade

it

is

to

clean foul

chimnies of foot.

To look like her, are tlnmtiiyf'anepers black;
And Cnce her time are colliers counted bright.
Sbakcffieart,

The little ck'm*ieyftveel>rr (kulks along,

And marks with fuoty lUins the heedlefs throng.
Gay,
Even lying Ned, the <h'wireyfv}eeper of Savoy,
and

Tom the Portugal du.lman,

put in their
j4rbutbnot,

claims.

ufed proverbially for one
mean and vile occupation.

2, It is

make a found.
He chinks his purfe, and takes his feat of date

:

Stiikifpeare.

Germ.]

[cinne, Saic kin:i.

To

Chink, f. ». To foimd by llriking
each other.
Lord Strutt's money (hines as bright, and chinks

]ip.

her wai ft, and thrui^ing out her cb'mWith his Amazoman ch'm he drove

The bridled lips before him.

Chi'na. n.f. [from China, the country

clefts.

holes J

wheie it is ma'de.] China ware ; porcelain ; a fpecies of velfels made in
China, dimly tranfparent, partaking of
the qualities of earth and glafs.
They
are made by mingling two kinds of
earth, of which one eafily vitrifies ; the
other refifls a very ftrong heat : when
the vitrifiable earth is melted into glafs,

And miilrcf- of hcrfcif, tho' cbina fall.

Pope.

Pope.

After fuppcr, carry your plate and china together in t!ic fame bafkct.
Swift.

Chi'oppine. n.f. [from chapin, Span.^

Spc.laior.

lO

;

to

human figure.
Mdifons Speflatir.
The critick drikes out all that is not jud ;
And 'ti« ev'n fo the butler chips his crud.
King.
Indudry
Taught him to chip' Ae'<vio!>i, and hew the done.

Sidney.

To Chine, o. a. [from the noun.] To

To cut into fmall pieces

Crying on Hetlor.
Shahfp. Trnilus and CtrJJida.
To rcturii to our ftatue in the block of marble,
we fee it fometimes only begun to be chipped
fomctimes rough hewn, and jud flcetchcd into an

fpina, Lat. cein. Arm,]
1. The part of the back in which the
fpine or back bone is found.
She ftrake him fuch a blow upon his «A;«, that

liberally

events by infpedling the hand.

The middle fort, who have hot much to ipare.

To chiromancers' cheaper art repair.

Who clap the pretty palm, to mal-e the lines more

Thowfon.

Chi-.', n. f.
I.

Dry den's yuaenal.

fair.

Chi'romancy. n.f. [xsij, the hand, and
navlif, a prophet.] The art of foretel-

Conoley.

diminilh, by cutting away a little at a
time.
His mangled MjTmidons,
Nofelcfs, hanu'.cf^, hackt and chipt, come to him.

CHINE, n. f [efchine, Fr. fhiena, Ital.

and he haj ^ealt about his ihinti very

Chiro'craphy, n.f. [See Chirograph er.] The art of writing.
Chi'romancer. v. f. [See Chiromancy.] One that foretels fiiture

•ignify things pad ; in the middle, things prefentj

chop.]

complicated with an
Flyer on the liuKours.

Shaitjfftrt.

Let the phyfiognomids examine hisfeaturesj let
the chirographips behold his palm ; but, above all,
let us confult for the calculation of his nativity.

always in chi'ippines,

To Chip. oi. a. [probably corrupted from

I have obfcrved 3 ch'incough,

He had killed eight ftt hops for this feaftin,

or chiromancer.

There is not much conliderable in that do£ltinc
of chiromancy, that fpots in the top of the nails do

of places, imply a market ; from the
Saxon cyppan, ceapan, to buy. Gibfon.

Cut out the buily buned clov.a in cWwi.i of licef

following pafiage, I think, improperly,
for one that tells fortunes by examining
the hand : the true word is chirofiphifi^

you lad, by the altitude of a chiefpine.
ShaktJ}.
The wnman was a giantefs, and yet walked

f. [from China and
roct. ] A medicinal root, brought originally from China.
CHl'^ COUGH, tt.f. [perhaps more properly kinccugh, from kinckin, to pant,
Dut. and cough.'] /f violent and convulfive
cough, to which children are fubieft.

He prefenrs her with the tufky head,
And d wwith rifing bridles rougbly fpread. Hryd.
2. A piece of the back of an animal.

ph. r's, to be engrofl'ed. B aeon sO£ice of Alienation.
Chiro'craphist. «. / [See ChiroGRAPHER.] This word is ufed in the

ling the events of life, by infpedling the
hand.

CHIP, Cheap, Chipping, in the names

flic opened all his body.

or profeffes the art or bufmcfi of writing.
Thus pafl'eth it from this office to the chirogra-

Your ladyfliip is nearer heaven than when 1 faw

tUriimer'i Hujh.

cut into chines.

Brawns Vulgar Errcurs»

A high flioe, formerly worn by ladies.

n.

md fometimes Urd. of ali.

j^rhuibn'4 and Pope*

Let a charmm^ chints, and Brudcls lace.
Wrap my cold limbs, and fliade my lifeleCs face.

:

chimera,

Chiro'grapher. n.f, [x"{» the hand,
and y^aipa, to write.] He that e^cercifes

India, and printed with colours.

originally from China.
Nut many years has the Ciirta-orargi- been pro-

[from

Chircigrical perlbns do fuffer in the finger as well

as in the reft,

Chints. n.f. Cloth of cotton made in

Chi'n a-Orance. n.f. [from China and
crange.']
The fweet orange brought

adj.

Having the gout in the hand ;

fubjeft to the gout in the hand.

[from chink."] Full of
gaping ; opening into narrow

Dryden^s Virgil.
Grimalkin, to domedick vermin fworn
An everlading foe, with watchful eye
Lies nightly brooding o'er a cbinky gap.
Protending her fell claws, to thoughtlcfs mice
Sure ruin.
Philips's Poems.

SplKn, vapnurs, or fm.ill-pcx, above them all

amongd his n-ighbouri.

Lat.]

a.-fj.

But plaider thou the cbinkj hives with clay.

they are completely burnt.

ere thou icrp.

Chira'grical.

Stvi/t.

Chi'nky.

Inrcrmitting ftvcr.

they be preferved, are of more value than the whole
Fe'tton en the Chjfuks-,
mafs of ordinary authors.

When not a guinea chink'J on Martin's boards.
And AtwiU's felf was drain'd of all his hoards.

Shattfjieare.

Alcnimer's Hajhaiidry,

The chippings and filings of thefe jewels, could

Arhuihnat's Hifloiy cf Jnhn Bull.

Shinty.

He/ais'd his h.irdy head, which funk again.
And, finking on his bofom, knock'd his ckir.
Drydin.

Chi'na-Root.

They dung their land with the ohipp'trgs of a

as well, as 'r<)uire South's.

But ail the words I could get of her, was wrying

H'mdhvtifd.

fort of loft done.

Pope's Drr'.riiid.

The part of the face beneath the under

pagated in IVrtugal and Spain.

chips of done.

Chi'pping. n.f. [from To chip.."] A fragment cut off.

With ready quills the dedicators wait.

Golden lads and girls, all multf
As chlmrtej/fw^perif come to dud,

CHIN. n. f.

The mapgauefe lies in the vein in tmnps wrecked, in an irregular maiiner, among clay,"fpar, aud

To Chink, f. a. [derived by Skinner
from the found.] To Ihake fo as to

of a

A fmall piece, however made.

2.

A

[from the verb.]
fmall piece taken oiF by a cutting

and at the bottom, events to come.
Broiott's Vulgar Erroun.

To
•

CHIRP,

'u.

n.

[perhaps

contrafted

from cheer up. The Dutch have circken.'\

To make a cheerful

noife ;

as

birds,

when they call without fmging.
.Slie

chirfing ran, he peeping dew away.

Till hard by

them both he and die did day.
S'tdne^t

Came he right now to ling a raven's note;
And thinks he that the chirping of a wren
Can chafe a«ay the fird conceived found

Shak,

.>

No chirping lark the welkin Ihcen invokes. '
Gay'i Paflerah,

The careful hen
Calls all her chirping family around.

Thomfin's Spring,

To Chirp, v. a. [This feems apparently
corrupted from cheer tip^]
To make

V
cheerful.
Let no fubcr bi^ot here think it^Jin
lu puih 00 the chirping and modwajffjfcottle.

inllrunvent.

-'::;_

yehnfir.

Sir Balaam now, he lives like otheriolks

Cucumbers do eitreroely i&cQ moidure, and
over-drink tliemfelves, which chaff or chips for-

He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes.

Saccn.
That chip maJtifon fwim, not by natural power.

Chikp. n.f. [from the verb.] The voice

Pope.,

biddeth.

I'aylTr.

of birds or infe'ils.
Vflnii

C H O

C H I

C H I
Wind) over ui whifper'd, flockj by ui did btf «',
Sptflator.
I

am a member of a female foeietyj who -call

ourfelves the chitchat club.

SftHattr.

Chi'tterlings. n. /, without Angular,

ToChirre. v. ft. [ceopian. Sax.] See
C H u R M E To coo as a pigeon. Junius.

[from fchyter lingh, Dut. Min^nu ;
from kutlcln. Germ. Skinntr.\ The guts

CHIRU'RGEON. ». /. \_x'k''Hy'^' f''°"'

the bowels.

.

yi\^, the

One Chi'ttv.

hand, and i{yi», work.]

cures ailments, not by internal
medicines, but outward applications.
It is now generally pronounced, and by
many written, _/arf«».
When a man's wounds ceafe to fmart, only

lating

1.

chivalry,

Fairy S).

the kernel of the c.ncao nut with other

[chevaUrie, Fr.
knighthood, from chcual, a horfe ; as
equts in Latin.]

fubftances, to be diffolved in hot water.
The Spaniards were the firft who brought cho-.
cclaie into ufe in Europe, to ptoreote the coa>
fumplion of their cacao-nuts, achiot, and other
drugs, which their Weft Indies furnilh, and which

Knighthood; a military dignity.

3.

Mortimer.

Bacn't F.Jpiys.

!

Sbahefpearc.

krou/e.]

An adventure

IQAking inftruments, and exercifing particular ex-

lefs

famous, becaufe they were. but private chival-

periments,

ries.

Sidney.

5.

6.

Choice, n. /. [choix, French.]
1.

In law.

heirs, called feuda,

Imperfedl Oiapes ; in marble fuch are feen.
When the rude cbifcl does the man begin, t^rydcn,

f>:ts,

benefit of the icing.

as proceeding

2.

cut with a chifel.

[according to Dr. Hickei,
from kind. Germ, child ; perhaps from
thico, little. Span.]
Generally ufed of
1, A child ; a Isaby.
young perfons in contempt.
n. f.

Cloice there is not, unlcfs the thing which we
our power, that we might have re-

If fire confume the ftable, it choofeth
not fo to do, becaufe the nature thereof is fuch
Hotlier,
that it can do no other.
There's no liberty like the freedom of having it
at my own choice, whether I will live to the world,

from the

As the king gave to the

That which may iiold
fon as well as of the king.
only of the king, is properly called fergcantry ;
and is again divided into grand or petit, i. r. great
CLivalry that may hold of a common
or fmall.

The Ihoot of com from the end of the

A cant term with maltllers.

Barley, couched four days, will begin to ihew
the cbit or fprit at the root-end.

01^0 myfclf.

l,"
Ef range.
To talk of compelling a man to be good, is a

contradiilion ;

A freckle, [from chick -peafe.] In this

3.

[from the noun.] To
fprout ; to flioot at the end of the grain

ought properly to be written cbevahy. It is a word not much ufed, but
in old poems or romances.
Chi'ves. ti,/. [cive, Fr. Skinner,']

cant.

1.

fenfe it is feldora ufed.

To Chit. 1/.

n.

have known barley cbit in feven hours after it
Mcrlimtr^i Hufhandry,
hai been thrown forth.

Chi'tchat. tt.f. [corrupted by reduplication from cbat.l Prattle i iuepiate;

The

threads

or

filaments

riling

in

they were colle£ied with judgment and choice.
Bactii's jifofhihegms.

4.

The thing chofen ; the thing taken, or
approved, in preference to others.
Your choice is not fo rich in birth as beauty ;
TJiat you might well enjoy her.
Shakifpeare.
Take to thee, from among the cherubim.

Thy dace of flaming warrioi<rs.

The mafculine or prolific feed contained in the

Milton I Paradife L-iji.

Hay on the Cnati'ii.

Now, Mars, (he faid, let fame cx.ilt her voice Not let thy coni^ucfls only be bei choice.
P'or,

chivti or apircs of the itamina.

2.

curiofity of diftinc-

Julius Catfar did write a colleftion of apophthc,gms : it is pity his book is loft ; for 1 imagine

It

flowers with feeds at the end.

I

Care in choofing ;
tion.

perfon, as well as of the king, is called fcutagium.

7.

for where tliere is force, there can

be no chiue. Whereas, all moral goodnefs confifteth
in the eleftive ail of tlie underftanding will.
Crtvi'i CojKolcgia Sacra.
Whether he w'lll remove his contemplation from
is
many
times in his choice.
one idea to another,
Locke.

Mitrnvurt Ilujbandry.
J.

The power of choofing; election.
futed it.

valry, therefore, is a tenure of fervice, whereby
the tenant is bound to perform fomc noble or military ofSce unto his lord : and is of two forts
either teg il, that is, fucli as may hold only of the
king ; or fuch as may alfo hold of a common per-

Thcf; will appear fuch cb.ti in ftory,
'Twiil turn all politicks to jeft.
Amrymm.

determination

t.ik; be fo in

nobles large pnfleflions for this or that rent and
fervice, fo tlicy parcelled out their lands, So received for rents and ferviccs, as they thought
good : and thofe fervices are by Littleton divided
into chivalry and focage. The one is martial and
Chimilitary ; the other, clowniih and mftick.

To Chi'sel. t. a. [from the noun.] To

of choofing;

tion.
If you oblige mp fuddenly to chufe.
The choice is made ; for I miift both refufe. Drydi»,
Soft elocution doth thy ftyle renown,
Centle or (harp, according to thy choice.
To laugh at follies, or to lalh at vice. Dryd. Perful,

fore are ail our freeholds, that are to us and our

tyotlca't ArchiteHurt,

The aft

between different things propofed ; elec-

The body or order of knights.

Serviiium mi/itare, of the French chjyualier j a
There is no
tenure of land by knight's fervice.
land but is holden mediately or immediately of
other
fome
fervice
or
the crown, by
; and there-

«

Tatler.

And Jacob was wroth, and cboje with Laban.

Did all the chivalry of England move
To do brave adls.
Sbahffcarc.

is pared away.

grain.

day at the chocolate-hiufi.

ChOds. [the old preterite from cbitie.}
See Chide.

And by his light

An inftrument with which wood or ftone

A houfe where company is en-

Genefis.

They four doing a£ls more dangerous, though

ff^tlkin:.

[chocoliUe Axxi

tertained with chocolate.
Ever fince that time, L'lf^nder hss been twice a

Not now

an exploit.

;

in ufe.

The cbirurgical or manual p*t doth refer to the

2.

Cho'colate-house. n./.

The general fyitem of knighthood.

Rryden.

fcarce found.

CHIT.

Chccshre U certainly much the beft of thefe
exotick liquors : its oil ferms to be both
jfrhih. (vjilim.
rich, alimentar;-, and anodyne,
In funics of burning chocolate fliall glow.
Pope.
And tremble at the fea that froths below

Sbairff.

This fenie, though

What fine ctifil

colate in hot water.

bore.

4.

The liquor made by a folution of chot'lrce

And whate'cr elfe to chivalry belongs,
He would not ceafe till he rcveng'd their wrongs.

3. Manual in general, confifling in ope-

Could ever yet cut breath ? Let no man mock me,
For I will kifs her.
Sbakrjj/tare.
There is fuch a fceming foftnefs in the limbs,
if not a chijrl had hewed them out of ftone, but
a pencil had drawn and ftroaked them in oil.

3.

Solemnly he fwore.
That, by the faith which knights to knighthood

2. Relating to the manual part of healing.

Clamien.

enter the compofition of chocolate.

The qualifications of a knight; as, vaThou haft flain
The flow'r of Europe for his chivalry,
I may fpeak it to my Ihame,

mean between hot and cold.

CHI'SEL. »./. [d/eaa. Fr. of/cijim, Lat.]

Miller.

The cake or mafs, made by grinding

2.

/

».

I have a truant been to chivalry.

the firil according to etymology, is now

and is found in great plenty in feverai places between the tropicks, and grows wild. See Cocoa.

lour, dexterity in arms.

Chirur-

As to the cbirurgical or phylical virtues of wax,

deeply furrowed, in which are contained feverai
feeds, coUcfled into an oblong heap, and (lit down,
fomewhat like almonds. It is a native of America,

or errant knight-

foldiers.

2.

plications to hurts.

rations of rhe hand.

Childilh

There be now, for martial encouragement, fomc
dfgrees and order » of chivalry ; which, ncvertheltfs,
are conferred promifcuoufty upon foidiers and no

"ChIRu'rCICK. J
CEON.
'I. Having qualities ufeful in outward ap-

it is reckoned a

[from f^/,]

In brave purfuit of chivalnut emprife.

ff^i/emiDi,

See

to

CHI'VALRY.

Sidity.
Nature couH do nothing In her cafe without the

aJ/,

The tree hath a rofe flowe.-, of a great number
of iietajs, from whofc empalement arifes the pointal,
being a tube cut into many parts, which becomes
a fruit fliaped fomewhat like a cucumber, and

;

thofe days much efteemed.

Chiru'rcical. 7

The nut of the cacao tree.

1

Skinner.

adj.

hood ; knightly ; warlike adventurous
daring.
A word now out of ufe.
And noble minds of yore allied were

art in

help of cbirurgery, in drying up the luxurious Hcih,
and making way to puU out the rotten bon;;:.

CHO'COLATE. ». /. [chocolate. Span.]

Chi'valrous. adj. [from chiiialry.'] Re-

Chiru'rcBry. n. /. [from cbirurgeon.]
The art of curing by external applications.
This is calledyj/r^^ry.
Gynccia having, flcill in cbirurgiry, an

The green-ficknefs.
See Choke.

To Choak.

like a baby.

that

becaufe he has loft hii feeling, they are nevertheiefs mortal, for his not feeing his need nf a chirurSoutb^s Sermcns,
gecit»

Chi.oro'sis. «./ [from ;jK«{^, green.]

crous converfation.

Chi'rper. n./. [from eiirp.] One that
chirps ; one that is cheerful.

A word only ufed in ludi-

Idle talk.

And tkirf went the grafthopper under our tlct.

A fpecies of fmall onion.

Skinntr.

5-

The

C H O
5.

The beii part

(C

of any thing,

that

While pray'rs and tears his deftin'dprogrefs Hay,

is

way.

The c/hi.-if anil flower of all things profitable in
other books, tlic Pfalms do both more briefly
contain, and more movingly alfoexprcfs. Hcrkcr,
Thou art a mighty prince : in the cimt ol" our
fepulcbtes bury tby dead.
Genefis,

3.

To hinder by obftruftion or conEnement.
As two fpcnt fwimmers, that Jo cling together.
Sbakejpcare.
And choke their art.
Tho' mifts and clouds do chokt her window-light.

Severalthings propofed at once, as objefts of judgment and eledlion.

Davies,
is fo choked, as not to be

She cannot lofe her perfeft pow'r to fee,

It feemeth

To make Choice of. To choofe ; to
take from feveral things propofed.
Wifdom of what herfelf approves mjfu ch'.ici.
Nor is led captive by the common vrt'ce. Dcttham,
Choice, adj. [ckciji, French.]
1. Seleil ; of extraordinary value.
After having fet before the king the ihoktji of
winej and fruits, he told him the bcft part of his
entertainment was to come.
Guardian,
Thus, in a fca of folly tofs'd.

My choUiJ} liours <yi life are lift.
Chary; frugal;

fellow, cholerick, bold, and of a very unconrtanc

temper.^

Angry

Arbuthrtot.
;

ofFenfive : of words or adions.,

There came in choleriik halle towards me .ibout
ftfven or eight knights.

Sidney,

Becanus threateneth all that read him, ufiiig his
confident, or rather cholerick, fpeech.
Raleigh'i Hipciry of the World.

Cho'lerickness. n. /. [from cholerick.]
Anger irafcibility ; peeviflinefs.

The fire, which chok'J in alhes lay,

To CHOOSE. -J. a. I cho/e, I have cho/en,

A load too heavy for his foul to move,

or cho/e. [choi/ir, Fr. ceopan. Sax. ktc/en.

Was upward blown below, and brufliM away by
Dryden,

love.

To fupprefs.
And yet we.ventnrM

Germ.]

To take by way of preference of feve-

1

ral things oifcred ; not to reje£l.
;

for the gain pi'OposM

Did

chooje him

out of all the tribes of Ifrael
i Silvi. ii. 2S.
I may neither chooje whom I woulJ, nor refufe

Ctni^d the refpcQ pf likely peril fear'd.
Shakefp.
Co\)fefs thee fretly of thy fin
For to deny each article with oatli,
Canno^ remove nor choke the ftrong conception
That J do gtoari withal.
Shakejpeare,

S^vi/t,

irafcible : ofperfons.

;

Bacon I Natural llijiory.

4.

Angry;

Bull, in the miin, was an honeft, plain-dealing

Bacoti^s Natural Hijiory.

for clfe you will choke the fpreading of the fruit.

Ufed of per-

careful.

fi-.e

2.

3.

You muft make the mould big enough to contain
the whole fruit, when it is gr^jwn to the gvcateft ;

Hhakiff,

7.

2.

the

able to remove the ftonc.

A braver chi.c of dauntlefs fpirits

tempers, the one cboUrick a?id fangulne, the other
phiegmatick and mclancholick.
Dryden*

^i^kell.

Their ridors, the flow'r and choice
Of many pro\inces, from bound to bound. Milttm,

Did never float upon the fw-elling title.

Our two great poets being fo di/Fcrent in their

I

And crowds of mourners chakc their fov'reign's

more properly the objedl of choice.

6.

C H O

H O

to be

1

my prieft ?

whom I diflike.

Shakefpeare.
If he Ihould offer to chaife, and cbioj'e the light

'

fons.

He that is ctcice of his time, will alfo be cbcict

thorns are they
which, when they have heard, go forth, and are
ch'ked with cares, and riches, and pleafures of this
life, and bring no fruit to perfection.
Luke.
No fruitful crop the fickly fields return;
But oats and darnel cboke the rifing corn.

Cho'iceless. ai/J. [from chut.'] Without the power of chooung; without right
of choice ; not free.
Neither the weight of the matter of wiiich the
cylinder is made, nor the round voluble form of

any more imputable to that dead chokclcfi
creature, than the firllmotiorfof it ; and, therefore,
it

[from the verb.] The filamentous or capillary part of an artichoke.
A cant word.

cannot be a fit refemblance to flicw the recon-

Hammind.

1.

A rough, harlh, unpalatable pear.

Curioudy; with exaft choice.

2.

Any afperfion or farcafm, by which an-

A band of men,
2.

Sbak.

choke-fears.

Carry into the /hade fuch auriculas, fcedlings,
or plants, as are for their, choicemfi rcfcrved in
pots.
Evtlyn't KalenJar.

CHOIR. «./. [chorus. Latin.]
1. An affembly or band of fi.igcrs.
They now afljil the choir
Of angels, who their fongs aJmirf.
2. The fingers in divine worlhip.

The lords and ladies, having Drought the queep

2.

To fuffocate

lity.

;

to obftruft ; to bJock up a 3. Anger;

I.

as if I

CHOP. i>, a.

[kappen,

Dut.

couper,

Abounding with choler.

To cut with a quick blow.
What fli.ill we do, if we perceive

.Siakefpeare.

Prior.

Lord Hafting'; will not yield to our complots ?

I—

-C/jQ/> f-ff his head, man.
Shakefpeare,
Within thefe three days his head is to br chopt

Shakelpeare,

oft'.

Cho'lerick. adj. [chokriciu, Latin.]
I .

Drayton.

men,

French.]

He, mcthinks, it no great fcholar,
Wiio can miftaWc dcfirc for choier.

Chaf^nan.

things to deal with other

^

rage.

Of conttadiition.

Whofc porticos were <i«*Vwith the rcfort.

all

might be my own choofer.

To

:

Men troop'd up to the king's capacious court,

Vol.1.

In

Hammond^ s PraSlical Catechifm.
This generality is not futficient to make a good
without
a
more
particular contrafti'^n of
choofr,
Wotton.
his judgment.

Hut him to f holer ftraight he hath been ufed
Ever to conquer, and to have his w -rd

paiTage.

m

Each one m.iy here a choofer be.
For room you need not wrcftle.

Hbttkijfeare.

Waller.

TOrts, and keep them from bcicg thtifj up, by the
help of feveral cagines.
Italy.
Addifir.

Come all into this nut, quoth ilie ;
Come clofely in, be rui'd by me ;

fuppofed to produce irafcibi-

Since, of ourfclvcs, ourfelves arc cholerick.
Than feed It with fuch over-roafted flerti.

Shakefpeari.

They are at a continual expencc to deanlc tlic

eleftor.

And better 'twere that b th of us did faft.

While you thundcr'd, clouds of duftdid chekc

To flop up

is

Tilhifon,

Cho'oser. «. / [from choc/.] He that
has the power or office of choofing

It engenders ctoler, planteth anger ;

paflage of refpiration.
But when to my good lord I prove untrue,

2.

commenfuiate to their duration.

The humour which, by its fuper-abundancc,

by Hopping the

for ever, cannot choofe but afpire after a happinefs

The bile.

bably, the Spanifh ahogat:]

Contending troops.

Threw down a golden npple in her way ;
For all her haOe, (he could not choofe but ftay.
Dryden.
Tkofc who are perfuaded that they (h^l continue

power of purg-

Wotton on Education.
There would be a main defeft, if fuch a feeding
animal, and fo fubjcft unto difcafes from bilinus
cauftiS, fhould want a proper conveyance for cHler.
Broivn^s Vulgar Errouri.

Sthakdfftcre.

;

I'lUioitrayfeif.

Convinced or fupplicd them, they cannot choofe
But they muft blab.
Sbakejfeare.
Wlien a favourite fliall be ralfed upon the foundation of merit, then can he not choofe but profper.
Bacon*

That which

Marcilius Ficimus increafcs thefc proportions,
adding two more of pure choler.

To a prepar'd place in the ctcir, fell off

llooker.

Knaves abroad,

Who having by their own importunate (uir

CHO'LER. »./, [cholera, Lat.from x'^''-]

rifters or fingers are placed.

To CHOKE, "v. a. [aceocan. Sax. from
ceoca, the check or mauth. According to
Mmjhe^v, from Dn from whence, pro-

-

folk'W.

Cho'lagogues. a,/. [xoA©-, iile.] Me-

1.

to pre-

;

A term of theologians.

fignifies mull necefTarily be.
Without the influence of the Deity fupporting
things, their utter annihilation could not choofe but

One that puts another to filence.
3. Any thing that cannot be anfw^red.
Cho'ke-weed. n.f. [ervangina.] A plant.

The choir^

At dirtance from her.

To eleft for eternal happinefs

To Choose, 'v. n. To have the power of
choice between different things.
It is
generally joined with a negative, and

has the power of fuftbcation.

With all the choiceft mufick of the kingdom,
Toget.-.er lung Te D,um.
Shakcjprare.
3. The part of the church where the cho-

•

2.

dicines which have the
ing bile or choler.

Scurf/ s Sermons,

to pick out of a number.
How much lefs Ihall I anfwer him, and choofe
out my words to reafon with him ?
Job,
;

deflinate to life.

ClariJJit.

Cho'ky. adj. [from choke.]
Waller.

To feledl

4.

Cho'ker. n./. [from choke.]
Nice- 1 One that chokes or fufFocates another.

ty; particular value.

to kill

to refufe any aft in its kind evil.

3.

WalHiiCi jinrlir.

Cho'icenhss. 71./. [from choice.']

;

The will has ftill fo much freedom left as to

Pardon mc for going fo low as to talk of giving

Valuably; excellently.
Jt is certain it is cbukcly gond.

1.

A low term.

other is put to filence.

Collcfled cb'Acely from each county fornc.

;

enable it to cboofe any adt in its kind good; as alfo

Choke-pear. n.f. [from choke and pear.]

Cho'icely. ad'v. \Jiom choice.'^
1.

To take

2.

Drydcrt's Paji.

Choke, n.f.

it, are

_ cileablencfs of fate with choice.

sccept him. Shakefp.
not to refufe.
Let us choofe to us judgment ; let us know
among ourfelves what is good.
fob.

will, if you Ihould refufe 1 1

And that which fell among

of his company, and ebeke of his actions.
TajfJor^i Hily Livirtg*

you fhould refufe th perform your father's

cafliet,

To overpower.

J.

1

And where the cleaver fiiifi the heifer's (pnil,
Thy breathing noltril hold.
Gay'i Trivia.

Rr

2.

To

C H O
To devour eagerly

z.

:

with up.

A term ufed in Scotland for a quart of
wine meafure.

2.

You are for making a hifty mtal, and for cl»ff'ag up your entertainmenc like an hungry clown.
Drydia.
Upon the opening of hit mouth he drops his

CHOfvivG. participial adj. [In this fenfe,
of uncertain etymology.] An epithet

L'Efirangt.

To mince

Allceh.

Some granaries are made with day, mixed with
hair, ctifptd draw, mulch, and fuch like.
Afart'mcr'i Hujl-a?idry.

By dividing of them into chapters and vcrfes,
they are fo ctiippcd and minced, and ftand fo
broken and divided, that the common people take
the verfes ufuaily for different aphorifms.
l,(xkt.
4. To break into chinks.
I

remesiber the cow's dugs, that her pretty
h nds had milked.
ShaUjpeari,

ri<t/>f

Both Jack Freeman and Ned Wild
-Would own the fair and chopping child.
Fenlon.
Chopping-block. a./, [chop and iloci.]
A log of wood, on which any thing is
laid to be cut in pieces.
The Itraight fmooth elms are good for axle-trees,
beards, chtpping-blucit.

Mortimer'i Hujbandry.

If the body repercuffing be near, and yet not fo
near as to make a concurrent echo, it ctopptth with

yoo upon tlie fudden.
Bacon t Natural Hipry.
2. To catch with the mouth.
Out of grcedinefs to get both, he chcpi at the
fliadow, and lofes the fubllance.

Lt^range.

To light or happen upon a thing fud-

3.

denly : with upon,

7« Chop. <v. a. [ceapan. Sax. ioopen, Dut.

a

under his girdle.

To purchafe, generally by way of truck

1.

1.

The d'cppirg of bargains, when a man buys not
to hold but to fell again, gtindeth upon the feller
and the buyer.
ther.

To bandy ; to altercate

3.

language ;

;

Cho'ral.

fentence.

1

2.

Singing in a choir.
And. fiord/ feraphs fung the fecond'day.

fignifies a rope or ftring in generar, it
is

1.

A fmall piece of meat, commonly of

preferved, the h is retain-

That can't regale themfelves with mutton chcpj.

Milieu.

2.

[In geometry.]

A right line, which

joins the two ends of any arch of a cir-

.'

When Tubal ftruck the (horded (hell.

my place at the chep.to:ifi, where every

His lift ning brethren ftood around.

man eats in publick a me& of broth, or chp of Chorde'e.
m-at.

in filence.

CHO-PIN. n.f. [French.]

SpcHaltr.
^

A French liquid meafure, containing
nearly a pint of Wincheiler.

!

Pc/'c,

The perfons who are fuppofed to be-

For fupply.

Admit me chorus to this hiftory.
Shahefpeare,.
3. The fong between the afts of a tragedy,
4. Verfes of a fong in which the com-

pany join the finger.

Chose,

[the preter tenfe, and fometimes

the participle paffive, from To choofe.]

Our foveteign here above the nil might (land.

n. /.

Drydcn.

[from chorda, Lat.]

contraftion of the froenum.

If king Lewis vouchfafe to furnilh us

With fome few bands of cbofin IbldicfS,
I'll

undertake to land them on our coaft.

Sbat,

Chough, n. f. [ceo. Sax. choucas, Fr.l

A bird which frequents the rocks by rfie
fea fide, like a jackdaw, but bigger.

Hanmer.
In birds, kites and keftrels have a rele.-nblance
with hawks, crows with ravens, daws and choughs.
Bacon's Natural UiJIory.
To crows the like impartial grace affords.
And choughs and daws, and fuch rcpublick birds.

A Choule.

Cho'rion. ;;./ [;i(;i{ir>, to contain.] The
outward membrane that enwraps the
fcctus.

Drydcn,

choofe. "^

cle.

;

I loft

2.

Cho'sen. [the participle paffire from To,

The ftnng of a mufical inftrnment.

^'""Bacon. To Chord, v. a. [from the noun.] To
Chop-house. «./. [from chop znAhou/e.]
furnifli with ftrings or chords
to ftring.
A mean houfe of entertainment, where
What palTiun cannot mufick raife and quell
provifion ready dreflied is fold.

AJdiJtn.

In praife fo juft let every voice be join'd.

And fill the general clzrus of m.inkind

And here be cbofe again to rule the land.

Who mov'd
Their flops and chords, was f.jeii ; his volant touch
InfHnQ t!iro' all proportions, low and high.
Fled and purfi.ed tranfverfe the rcfonant fugue.

Old Crofs condemns all perfons to be frp;.

them in

is

ed.

mutton.

the filling of the dp, of bowls, by laying

when its primitive fig-

written cord :

niiication

Sir William Capel compounded forfixtcen hun.
dred pounds; yet Empf.n would have cut anothe,

to fwcll ; as we fee In

human creatures join together in a hymn 01 devo-

Mi/ton.

L'ijlrange.

Water will make wood

more full and unfpotted chotus of

aas.

Mi/ton.

Cleral fymphonies.

[from the verb.]
A piece chopped off. See Chip.

-

a

Ch-ir.il or unifon.

yfmhurfl.

A crack, or cleft.

Dryder.

Never did

hold what paflcs in the afts of a tragedy,
and fing their fentiments -between the

All founds on fret by ftring or golden wire

Chop. n./.

3.

duced.

Temperd fift tunings intcrmix'd with voice,

CHORD. «. /. [chorda, Lat.] When it

Jiir.g's Cook.

c/«rBi of fmgers : afterwards one aftor was intro.

tion.

yourikin is turned over your ears for prating.

Bacon.

;

The Grecian tr.igedy was a; (iift nothing but a

flfljr.

concert.

^^ j^_

cicfiout of him, if the king had n tdied.

in its objcft than

is lefs

Cho'rus. n.f. [chorus, Latin.]
A number of fingers a concert.
1

of a river, of a fmlth's

You'll never leave off your chopping of logick,

till

%.

as

It

geography, and greater than topography.

in familiar

[from chorus, Lat.]
Belonging to, or compofing a choir or

to return one

Let not the counJl at the bar rfj^ with the
_
judge, nor wind himfelf into tiic hand.mg of the
caufe anew, after the jud^e hath declared his

I.

provinces.

vice:

thing or word for another.

_

The mouth of a beaft.

Shakcfpcare,

HuMras.

Affirm the Trigons ctipp' d ini cha.ngM,
The watry with the fiery rang'd.
IhMras.
We go on chupf'mg and t hanging our friends,
as well as our horlcs.
VEprangc.

manner defcriptive of p.ir-

Choro'ciaphv. n.yl [SeeCnoROCR Ap h c R.] The art or pradlice of defcrib-

Till he unfeAm'd him from the nape to th' chops.

Sets up communities and fenf-s.

in a

ticular regions.

ing particular regions, or l.iying down
the limits and boundaries of particular

3. The mouth of any thing

To ct^ and change intelligences.

In a chorographical manner ; according to the rule of chorogra-

fee].

He ne'er Ihook hands, nor bid farewel to him,

To put one thing in the place of ano-

2.

rographical.]

phy ;

The mouth of a man, ufed in contempt.

Bacon.

Raleigh's Hi/lory ofihc World,

Chorogr a'phic ally; ad-j. [from cbo-

Sidney.

So focn as my cbopt begin to walk, yours muft
be walking too, for company.
h'Efirangc.
2.

ha>e added a cherograpHcal defcriptlon of this

terrcftrial paradife.

You feem to underftand me.

to give one thing for another.

a

regions or countries ; laying down the
boundaries of countries.

clefts, or cracks.

to buy.]

x^'^^j

Chorocra'phical. adj. [See ChoroGRAPHER.] Defcriptive of particular

Cho'ppy. adj. [from chtip.'\ Full of holes,
By each at once her choppy finger laying
Upon her (kinny lips.
Shahefpeare.
Chops, n. f. without a fingular. [corrupted probably from Chaps, which

[from

region, and 7|<x^w, to defcribe.] He that
defcribes particular regions or countries.

I

Here comes Dametas, with a fword by his Cde,
foreft-bill on his neck, and a chopping-knife

Ray on the Creadon,

choriflcrs,

meat.

changes fuddenly.

of the lower order; a finging boy.
A finger in a concert. This fenfe is, for
the moft part, confined to poetry.
And let the roaring organs loudly play
The pralfcs of the Lord in lively nutej ;
The whiles, with hollow throats,
The cborif.os the joyous anthem fing.
Spinjer,
The new-born phsnix takes his way j

Choro'crapher. n.f.

A knife with which cooks mince their

expeifled motion, like that of a blow :
as we fay, tfee wind chops about, that is,

.

Of airy cLoriJIers a numerous train
Attend his progrcfs.
Diydcn.
The mulical voices and accents of tlie aerial

To do any thing with a quick and un- Choppincknife. n.f. [chap and ini/e.]

1.

I.

2.

live.

To Chop. v. n.

_

r

A finger in cathedrals, ufuaily a finger

1.

:

to cut into fmall pieces.
Thty break their bones, and chip them in pieces,
;

as for the pot.

C H o'r s T E R n.f. [from chorus.l

frequently applied to infants, by way
imagined
of ludicrous commendation
by Skinner to fignify lujlj, from cap.
Sax. ; by others to mean a child that
would bring money at a market. Perhaps a greedy, hungry child, likely to

breakfail, which the fox prefently chif-pcd up.

3.

C H O

C H O

Drydcn,

[commonly pronounced and
written yVW.] The crop of a bird.
n.f.

Theriox/e or crop, adhering unto the lower fide
of the bill, and fo defcending by the throat, is a
bag or fache!.
Brnvn's Vulgar Errouru

To

C H R

C H R

C H R

To Chouse. -». a. [The original of this
word is much doubted by Skinner, who

C H R I's T A N adj. Profefllng the religion
I

tries to deduce it from the French goffer,

to laugh at ; or jonchtr, to wheedle ; and
from the Teuto^ick kofcn, to prattle. It
is perhaps a fortuitous and cant word,

without etymology.]
1. To cheat; to trick ; to impofe upon.
Freedom anJ zeal have ri>paiV you o'er and o'er;
Pray give us leave to bubble you once more. Dryti.
Frvim London they came, lilly people to cbouft.
Their lands and their faces unknown.
S-wift.

not be made a fjft and dull-eyed fool,

I'll

To Ihake the head, relent, and figh, and yield
Shak.Jfeare.
To cbrijiian interceifors.

Shakcfpeore''s Anteny and Cleopatra.

I

I

I

\_chrijlianifmus

n, f.

.

God doth will that couples, which are married,

both infidels, if either party be converted into chrijJiiakcr.
Ihoutd not raake feparation.
Everyone, who lives in the habitual praflicc of
any voluntary fin, cuts himfelf off from ckrijiiiinity,
Mdifin.
Ri'sTi ANizE. "v. a. [from chrijTo
tiartify, this

Ch

The chronicles of my doing.

To make chriftian

;

Hudibrat*

A trick or Iham.

is

which you are to produce for the Biitilh chronicle.
Vrydcn.

To Chro'mcle.
1.

To grumble or

n.

'V.

/

:

to facred ceremonies.

One adt, never to be rereared, is not the thing
that Chrift's eternal pricfthood, denoted el'pecially
by his undkion or clrij'm, refers to.

2.

Hjmm'jTid^t Frafiical Catechljm.

anointed with holy unguent, which the
children anciently wore till they were

[from the noun.]

To record in chronicle, or hiftory.

To regifter; to record.
Says that this deed is chronicled in hell.'

Shakejp.

I.ovc is your maftei-, for he niafters you :

The principles of Platonick pliilofophy, as it
Drydcn.
now chriftianixtd.

And he that is fn yoked by a fool,
Methinks, (hoiild not be chrcnicled for wife. Fhak.
I (hall be the jcft of t'le town ; nay, in two days
lexpefl to be chronicled in ditty, and fung in woe-

;

are coUefted at Chriilmas.
When time comes round, a Chrifmas-btx they

Congrcve,

ful ballad.

Chro'nicler. n.f. [from chronicle.]

A

writer of chronicles ; a recorder of
events in order of time.
Here gathering chroniclers, and by them ftand
Donne.
Giddy fantalHck poets of c.ich land.
z. A hiftorian ; one that keeps up the meI.

mory of things paft.
I

do herein rely upon thcfe bards, or Irifli cbroSptnjcr.

fiiclers,

This cuftom was held by the druids and bards

bear.

So called from the chrifom-cloth, a cloth

a,

For now the Devil, thjt told me I did well,

to convert to

[from chriftian.^
Like a chriilian as becomes one who
profcffes the holy religion of Chrilh
Ch Ri'sTMAS. n.f. [from Chujl a.ndmafs.]
The day on which the nativity cf our
blelFed Saviour is celebrated, by the
particular fervice of the church.
Christmas-box. n.f. [from chrijimai
and box.'\ A box in wluch little prefents

Chri'som. ti.f. [See Chrism.] Achild
that dies within a month after it» birth.

1'.

This to rehearfc, flioulJ rather be to chrcnide
times than to fearch into reformation of abui'es in
'
that realm.
Sfenfcr.

Chri'stiani.y. adv.

Phillips.
mutter like a froward child.
Chrism, n,
an ointment.]
[xfif^ta,
Unguent, or unAion it is only applied

Shakefpeare,

give up to hiftorians the generals anu heroes
which crowd their annals, together with thofe
I

chriftianity.

Who, when a thief h.ii robbed hi$ houfe,

am traduc'd by tongues, wluch neither know

My faculties nor perfon, yet will be

Lat.]

A fottilh cheuff.

To Cho'wter.

I

1.

cheated.

2.

Spenfer en Ireland.
If from the field I Ihould return once more,
I and my fword will earn my chronicle.

name, or furname.

C H R 's T A N s M

Sbattfpiare.

A hiftory.
You lean too confidently on thofe IriiTi chronicles,
which ate moft fabulous and forged.

at the font, diftinft from the gentilitious

tian.]

Applies himfelf to cunning men.

Not a relation for a breakfaft.
2.

Christian-name. »./ The name given

The chriftian religion.
2. The nations profeffing chrlftianlty.
2. It has of before the thing taken away
Christi a'n iTv.B.yi [rA;<?//>«ff, French.]
by fraud.
The religion of chrilHans.
When geefe and pullen are feduc'J,
And lows e/" fucking pigs are choused. Hudih^-as.
Chousf. n.f. [from the verb. This word
is derived by Henjhaiu from hiaus, or
chiaus, a meflenger of the Turkifh court
who, fays he, is little better than a/so/.]
1 . A bubble ; a tool ; a man fit to be

No more yet of this
For 'tis a chytnicU of day by day.

.

of Chrift.

And one day makes them rich for all the year.
Gay*! Tri'uia.

of our ancient Britons, and of latter times by the
Irirti chroniclers,

Christmas-flower, n.f. Hellebore.

called rimers.

Raleigh's Hiftory of the World.

.

Ch rist's-thorn, n.f. [So called, as Chro'nogram. n.f. [j(;fo»®-, time, and
When the convullions were but few, the number
ypxtpu, to write.] An inlcriptiou includ-

chriftened.

Skinner fancies; becaufe the thorns have

of cir'iJbirtinA infants was greater.

fome likenefs to a crofs.]

Graunt'i BitU of Mortality*
7«i Chri'sten.

1.

To baptize

v. a.

;

It

[chjiij-cnian. Sax.]

leaves*,

to initiate into chrilUani-

l;)r.g

Iharp fpines :

in fi>rm of a rofe :

A plant.
the flower has five

out of the flower-cup,

which is divided into feveral figments, rifes the
pointal, which becomes a fruit, fiiapcd like a bonnet, ha\ing -a flieil almoft jlohul.ir, which is divided into three cells, in rath of which is contained a roondilh feed.
This is by many pcrfons
fuppofed to be the plant from which our Savinur'i
Miller.
crown of thcjrns was cjmpofed.

ty by water.
z.

hath

To name

to denominate.
;
Wiicre fuch evils 4S tliefc reign, chnjien the thing
what you will, it can be no better than a mock
millenulum.
Bumti.

Chri'stendom. n.f. [from Chrijl and
tlom.]
The coUeftive body of chriftiani- Chroma'tick. adj.
ty ; the regions of which the inhabitants
profeis the chriilian religion.

What hath been don**, the parts of cirijlend'im
moil alh;dtcd CJQ bcfl ti.'iif^.

2.

That clrtfltfuiam givci out.
SlokeJ^tare.
His compuutioD j< univerfally received over all
chrifiendiim^

»

Chrx's TENiNG.

>!./.

Then-

never touched his lyre in

It was obfcTved, he

Ihldir en Time.

fuch a truly ctnmalict and enhiirmonick ni inijrr.

[from the verb.]

jirhuihnot and Fi.fe.

The queen was with great folcmnity crowned

A chrcnicel diiVi-mpcr is of Icnsth

91 Weftminftcr, ab'Jut two jcars after the marriage j

afthmis, and t!io iilce.

had ftaid long for godBjiin.

ration ;

CHRI'STIAN. «."/

[Cbrifliams, Lat.]

A profeflbr of the religion of Chrift.
We. rl'rijiitini have

certainly the bell and

the old

wiled and niojl teafonablc, rclifiion in

the worid.

lilUtfan.

as dropfir<.
iiluin.y.

m jn when he is out of the pangs of a chn.S^f,-7,i/or.

CHRO'NICLE. n.f lchroniq;e, Fr. from
X^o»^, time.]
I .
.

A regifter or account of events ia order
of time.

univerfities, where, as

you

philofopher or poet, it is an ordinary character to
Addil-r:.
be a great chronogrammatijl.

Chrono'loger. n.f. [jf^w^, time, and
Xoy©-, doftrinc.] He th,it ftudies or exthe

fcience

of computing

paft

}

"

quananc agues, fcurvy, wherein «c

nical diftcmper.

the

hortett, the

as

ate foreign

man in England for being an excellent

plains

The lady's ufe of thefc t-xcellencies is to divert

Grauni.

The day oRthe chriftimttg being come, the houfe
ylihuthmt and Pipe.

-'[from

time, or of ranging paft events according to their proper years.
Chrtiiot.vtn differ among themfelies about moft

defer the cure unto more advanlag-ous feafons.
BriiTvn'l l^itlgnr Evriur^.

tbrijitmngt hath been neglected more than tliat ol

wti fiUcii with goflipi.

atl/.

'

Of difeafcs fome are ehnmcal, and of long du-

We (hail infert the caufcs why the account of
barials.

Ho^uel

year 2^67.

Ch RONOG-R amm a'tic AL.

praife a

,.

fathers.

A cbronogramnjatical verfe, which includes not

Drvdcni Vufrefncy.

The ceremony of the firll initiation Into Chro'nicaI-. 7
..•_
re
1
[fron.;c5-<.ttme.]
Chko'mck. V'J-

like an old chrj/lcning that

:

only th's year, i66o, butnumcrical letters enough
to leacli above a thoufand years further, until the

Relating to a certain fpecics of aiicicin
mufick, now unknown.

chriiHanity.

.

ample

Gloria laufque Deo (xCLorfM in (xcVH funto.

Belonging to a chronoc/hroriogrc!/,i.]
[;^;j4;/*«, colour.]
the laft example.
gram.
See
Relating
to
colour.
1.
1 am now come to the third part of painting,
kCh RONOGR a'mM ATIST.S./ [ft Om -fArff.'
which is called the clrnr.aitik, or colouring.
negram.] A writer of chronograms.

llookir.

And ol Jrr ao'l a letter joldicr, none

ing the date of any aftion.
Of this kind the following is an ex-

Holder on Time.

great epoclias.

Chronolo'gical.

[from chronology.] Relating to the doflrine of time.
Thus much Ijuchin^ the chronologicul adcjunt
adj.

of iouic times aud thing5 paft, without ccnfijiing
mylelf to tlie exadncfa of years.
Hale's Origin of Manilnd,

Chbokolo'cicali-v. adv. [from chroIn a clironological manner ;
according to the laws or rules of chronology .
Rr 2
nological.]

C H U

C H U

nology ; according to the exafl ferlet of

C H U

time.

ac-

He made the etuei four or five times, that peo-

cording to the crdsr of time ; a chronologer.
According to tbefo cinnclegiftt, the prophecy of
the Rabin, that the world Ihould laft but Cx t!iou\fond years, has been long difprovcJ.
BrbVin*! Vulgar Errouri,
All that learned noife and duft of the chmn'JogiJi
is wholly to be aTQided.
EducatKit,
Loeke

m

building where they meet; and fometimcr
the fame word means a fynod of bilhopi, or nf
preihyters ; anl in fome placet it \> the pope aiid a
general council.
fTaiti'i Lspck,
fair

CMgrevi.

ther's relations.
Chrono'locist. »./ [See ChronoloChuck,
n.f. [from the verb.]
OBR.] One that ftudies or explains
1. The voice of a hen.
time one that ranges paft events
;

The church is a religious artembly, or the large

Come, thuck the Infant ondtr the thin, force a
fmile, and cry. Ah, the boy takes after hU mo-

3,

Temple.

A word of endearment, corrupted from

2.

chicken or chick.
Come, yoarproniife.

What promife, cbncit
Shahfpeari.

3.

A fudden fmall noife.

Chrono'logy. n. /. [yj^it^, time, and Chuck-farthing, n.f. [chuck a.ni farthing.] A play, at whieh the money falls
^iiy®-, doftrine.] The fcience of computing and adjufting the periods of time;
as the revolution of the fun and moon ;
and of computing time part, and referring each event to the proper year.
And the mcatare of the year not being fa perfeAly known to the ancients, rend-red it wry difficult for

them

with a chuck into the hole beneath.
He loft his money at thjck-farlb'.Kg., Ih'ifflc.cap,

and all-fours.

laugh vehemently ;

What talc Ihall I to my old father t^ll >
'Twill make him chuckle thou 'rt bcftow'd fo well.

fucceeding a^es.

Chrono'meter. n.f. [>J53»^ and fteV^o*.]

Drydtn.

She to intrigues was e'en harJ-hearted;
She ehuikled when a bawd was caited.
Prkr.

To Chu'ckle.
1 .

five hundred

A terfti ufed by

phje of fome infefts.]

a.

To cocker

;

of childbirth.
ale.]

JDryJen.

tion 'among the parifhiunciS of

Church-attire.

Drydtn i Spemjh Vriar,

n.f. [probably from

The habit in

Th-*fe

and

fuch

like

were

their

difcourfes,

tU

that church-attire, wh'ch v/.th us, for
in I'Sa.t, is ufedln publiciv prayer.
Hooker,

-An old word, as it fcems, for forced

tou'

'

inftead of buttt-r and fat,

fpecies of infedts.

them partly with cream, or almond or piftachio

cal power ; fpiritual jurifditlbn.
In this point of church-eulhority, 1 Mve lifted all

milk.

the little fcraps alleged.

>ii9®-, a ftone. ]

.

Chambers.

[j^ber©-, gold,

and

it

Chu rch-authority. n.f. Ecdefiafti-

were good to moillen

Bacon's Nal-ural Hijlory.

A precious ilone of a CHUFF, n.f. [A word of uncertain de- Church-buria
tians,

A

Such another world,

Of one intice and perfefl ihryjdite,

No, ye fjt chuffs, I would your ftorc wt'e htrc.
^haitjpeare.

place.

would have hugged his bags to the laft.

A precious (tone of a
yellow colour, approaching tq green.
The ninth a topa*, the tenth a Urjfo^rafu!. Rev.

Wliether einperors or biftinps in thbfi days were
thurcb-funders, the folei^n dedication of churcltes
they thought not to be a work in itfelf either vain
or fupcrftitious.
Haokfri

ftomachfuUy.

CHUB. ». /
Skinner.']

[from cop, a great head.

A river fifli.

The cheviii.

The cLut is in prime from Midmay to Candlemas, but bell in winter. He is full offmalj bones;

John anfwered cbuffly.
iflinefs ;

ly;

ffai'tan'i Ar.gle'r.

A

Chumi>.

formed in imitation of the found that it
or perhaps corrupted from
To make a noife like a hen
thick.]

When one is battered, they can quickly, of a
chump of wood, accommodate thcmfeives with an-

1.

The colledlive body of chriflians, ufually termed the catholick church.

The church, being a 'fupcrnitural foricf)', doth
differ from natural Ibcicties in this;

that the pcrfons unto whom we alTociate ourfelves in the one,

Then crowing cljfp'd his wingi, tli' appointed

are

call

men, fimply confidercd

as

men ; but they to

whom we be joined In the other, arc God, angeh,
DryJ.Fal.

To give a gentle blow under the chin,
fo as to make the mouth iltike together.

and holy men.
2.

H»ker.

The body of chriflians adhering to one
particular opinion, or form of worlhip.

one

Drydin'i Fables.

M-.xon.

CHURCH. ;;./. [cijic*. Sax. Kt-?.««i.]

To call as a hen calls her young.

4

a term

/ A thick heavy piece of

other.

when (he calls her chickens.
To Chuck. i'. a.

To ehuci his wives together in the hall.

».

An ecclefiaftick ; a clergyman ;
that minifters in facred things.

If any thing be offered to you touching the
church and cburcb-'men, or church-governmtrnt,
rely not only upon yourfelf.
Baqon.
A very difficult work to do, to reform .ind redu<:e a church into Order, that had been fo long
negleftcd, and that was fo ill filleJ,by many weak
and more wilful cburchmen,
Clireiidoti,
Patience in want, and poverty of mind,
Thefe marks ijt church and churchmen he defign'd,
And living Caught, and dying left behind.

wood, lefs than a block.

[A word probably

expreffes ;

fur-

fat.

gether.]
chamber fellow:
ufed in the univerfities.

like a chub.

CHUCK, v. n.

1

Chum. n.f. [chcm, Armorick, to live to-

Chu'bbed. adj. [from chub.'] Big-headed
To

Churchman. »./ [church Tini. man.]

furlineis.

Chu'ffy.a^'. \_hom chuff.] Blunt;

he eats watcrilh ; not firm, but limp and nftelefs
neverthelcft he may be fo drelTed .is to make him
very good meat.

Clari[p>.

Chu'ffiness. n.f. [iromchuffy.] Clown-

of the

Aylffe's Parcrgorl.

or endows a church.

L'KJIr.

Chryso'pr ASUS. »./ [;^;i!.'ji&-, gold, and Cho'ffilv. ad-v. [from chuffy.] Surlilyj
prafinus, green.]

be not dcilied chitich-

Church-founder, n.f. He that builds

A lefs generous chuff than this in tl.e fable,

If ftone, carbuncle moft, or chryfMa.
MUtin'i PargdifeLcJi.

after their deaths,

burial, according to the ufage and ciiftom

Hang ye, gurbelliej knaves, are you undone?

I'd not have f ild her for.
Shakiheare.
If metal, part ftcm gold, part filver clear:

Aitirlury.

!,.

The bilhop has the care of feeing that all chrif-

or derived from kv.f, Welfh, a ftock.]
coarfe, fat-headed, blunt clown.

Wood'ward.

'

n.f. Burial according to the rites of the church.

rivation ; perhaps corrupted from chub,

duflty green, with a call of yellow.

Z.

Carcio.
n. yT

I

which rneti officiate at divine fervice,

To che'iv.]

meat.
As for chiiett, which are likewife minced meat,

what provilion it

picafeih ll-.cm to bc.lov.-.

fome naturalifls for aurelia, or the firft
apparent change of the maggot of any

Chry'solite. n.f.

I.

[from church and

n.f.

A wake, or feaft, commemoratory

of the dedication of the church.
Fdr the cbarrh-ale, two young men of the paridi
are yearly chofen to be wardens, who make collec-

to fondle.

Your ccnfefiur, that parcel of holy guts and
garbidge J he mull chuckle you, and moan you.

Chu'et

is

Church-ale.

[from chuck.]

Shakejfeare.

ufed frequently in conjun£Uoit
with other words ; as church-member, the
roemter of a church ; church-poiuer, fpiritual or eccleliaftical authority.
To Church, -v. a, [from the noun.] To
perform with any one the office of returning thanks in the church after any
fignal deliverance, as from the danger

To call as a hen.
that will chuckle 'em together.

2.

and ten yards in five half Icconds.
Dirkam,

Chry'salis. n.f. [from p^e^y®-, gold, becaufe of the golden colour in the nym-

-k.

Againft the churches.
4. It

I am not fjr from the women's apartmenr, I am
fure ; and if thefe birds arc within diftance, here's

An

inflrument for the exaft menl'uration of time.
Accuidii'.g to obfcrvation made with a pemiulum cbrttimMer, a bullet, at its firll d. (charge, flics

to laugh convul-

fively.

to tranfmit a true ctrmclogj to

Hcljer on lime,
Where 1 allude to the cuftoms of the Greeks,
1 believe J may be juAlAed by the ftrtdtefl cbrfn-3IffJ ; th jugh a poet is not obliged te the rules that
confine an hiA-)rian.
Prior,

Arhiithmi't Hijiory of John Bull.

To Chu'ckle. -v. ». [fchaecken, Dut.] To

The place which chriftians confecrate^to
the worftup of God.
It comprehends the whole church, viz. the naiue
Or body of the church, together with the chancel^
which is even included under the word church.
Ajlffe'% Partrgm.
That churches were confccrated unto none but
the Lord only, the very general name chiefly doth
fvifliciently fhew : church doth fignify no other
thing than the Lord's houfe.
Hxker.
Tho' you unty the winds, and let them fight

ple ufe to make to chickens when they call them.

An adherent to the church of England.
Church-wardens, n.f. [See War2.

den.] Officers yearly chofen, by the
confent of the niinifter and parilhioners,
according to the cuftom of each pl.ice,
to look to the church, church-yard, and
fuch things as belong to both ; and to
obferve the behaviour of the parilhioners, for fuch faults as appertain to the
jurifdidion or cenfure of the ecclefiaftical

C H U

C H Y

They are i kind of corpo

tical court.

Chu'rlishly.

•

by law to fue for any
thing belonging to their church, or poor
ration, enabled

^'«-,

y-'J-

A confufed found

of a thoufand taunts .ind reproaches.

Dutch

^

ifenfir'sSlati^Irclaiid.
Churl, iipoh thy eyes I throw

AW tire power tiiis charm doth owe.

Sbahfffare.From thh light caiilfe th' infernal maid prepares
The country d/uVh to mifchief, hate, and wars.

Chy Mic.,«.y; A chymift.

,
...
A« rude, fijrly,
ill-bred man.
!'•

2.

.

A cburl'i, couriefy rarely comes, but either for
gain Or falfjhood,
3.

Sidney.

Amifer; a niggard ; a felfilh or greedy
wretch.
Poifon, I fee, bafh been his timelefs end
churl, drink all, and leave no friendly

Her aukward. fill did pe'er tipploy the clfura.-

To help mc after

!

Chu RLI3H. aJj. [irom chttrl.'\
I.

Rude; brutal; harih ; aultere ; four;
mercilefs ; unkind ; uncivil.
A fca of .Tjelting pearl, which fome call tears,

Tiiol'e at her father's churlijh feet flic trndcr'd.

To pafiy, or to fight.
iibnki\b,arc.
A lion in love «*lth a laft, defired her lather's
confent.

The anfwer was churlijh enough

never marry his daughter to a brute.

He the purfuit oi ikt/rlijh beafts

a chymical manner.

A profeflor of chymiftiy

Perchance he fpdke not ; but
Like a fuU-acorn'd boar,.a churning on,
^'''^^ Ob. i

Shchfpeare.

''',,

.

.

Supi-emely blert.

Selfifli ;

Hc'<i

pyalUr.

avaricious.

The man vm chxrlifr and evil in his doings.
«.

'

.

Samud.

This fuilcn tburUJh thief
Had all his mind pUc'd upun Muilv's beef. Kinr.
3. [Of things.] Unpliant; crofs-grained";

unmanageable

;

harlh ; not yielding.

If there be emilTion of fbiiit, the body of
the
awtal will be hard and cbvrViJb. Bactm'i Nat. Ilijl.
The Cornifh wcr: become, like metal olteri
fired and qjcnched, ihurlijh, and
that would fooner
break than bow.
Bacon'i Henry Vll.
In the handreJs ef EITex they have a vciy
cbur-

^,j

lijhh\ ue clay.

M^iimo-; Hujhandr.y.

4. Vexatious; obftruflive.
Will you a^ain unknit
This churlijh knot of all abhorred war ?
Siahfp.
Spain fo'ind the war fo cburlijh and
longfome, athey found they fhould confume therofclvcs
in an
•

endlcfi war.

c^.

Spreads a path clear as the day,

Where no clurlijh rub fays nay.

•:

^CVft.©-, juice.

.

The mtchanifm- of nature, in coirveninj iir
aliment, Confirts in mi«ing with it inim.il juiocs,
toget]:er.

•

it i»

.An .art whereby fcnlible bodies contained -m

veffe.s, or capable of

To irtakft butter by agitating thp milk.
'

. .

Bacm'i Natural Uijhty.

.

of grafs.

"

Siinjier.

Phillip

See 7i) Choose.

Chyla'ceoits.

^<y. '[from; i:4i>/«.]r Belonging to chyle ; eo/ififti^ngpf chyle.
it

CHYLE. »./ [r-'^®-.] The white juice

formed in the flomach' by digcftioii'of
the aliment, and afterwards changed
into bload.
This powerful ferment, mingling with the parts.
The levcn'd mafs tu milky cbyk cohverts.

common in the Scotch dialed ; but the
CWc^k*, or fcallions, are a kind
of de«ner.ite

^'"''""'

CrCATRICE. 7 , ,
CrCATRIX. I "'J- \."'""-ix, Latin.
1.

I'he fciir remaining after a

One captain Spurio, wuh Jiis

blem of war, here on bis fmiftcr
2.

A mark; an impieffion

.

chyle

cinnot

pafs

"'""=*«

wound

./«»,;«, an emcheek.
Shairft.
:

fo

ufed

ahakej'pcare Icfs properly.
I..ean

_,
the

^rtutbv.ot on yi/imenn.

/ is not pronounced.

has the ftate of

Fhycr on rh,- Hurtiiurs.

^,.,,,. „

'.

Ci'eoL. «.j: [ciboule, Fr.] A fmall
fort
of onion ufed in lali.ids. This
word is

Wncn the fpirits of die cbyic hjve half fcrmeHtcd the chylacuius mats,

:

,.

adj. [tiiarius, Lat. from,
cdus, food.] Relating to food
;
ufeful
for food; edible.

called .ilfo a fancricket.

Blacimtre.

by

but vipi.n a rufh,

.The Cicatrice and capable impreirure
Thy palm fome moments keeps.

through the fmalleft
Arbulhnot.

Shahfpmre.

Chylipa'ction. n.f. [homchyle.] The CiCATRi'sANT. n.f. [from cicatru-cA An
aft or procefs of making- chyle
in the
"

^

ing the qualities proper to

Drinking cxcefTivdy during the time of chylifcllhn, ftops perfpiratinn.
ArhithiM in Mmnt:.

Chylipa'ctive.

ffrt)'.

yUomchylu!, and

facio, to make, Lat.]

Having the power

application that induces a

cicatrice

Cic ATR I's. VL. «d>. [from«<^/r/r^.]

'

body.

catrice.

I.

of making chyle.

Hav-

induce a "
ci.

1 he art ot healing the wound.

'

A vciu burfled, or corroded in the lun^s.

Chylopoe'tick. adj. [x^^®- and^ro.-V]

is

looked upon to be for the
molt part incufable
bccaufeo. the motion and coughing
of the lungs'
tearing the gap wider, and
hindering the con.lu!'
tinauon and cu;<ur,MU,n of the
vein.
HaXcy.

Having the power, or the office, of formCrajktiv

.

Wpi^rations of riy«j/?ry,fall ^ott of vital
force e
no chymift can make milk or blood

liurn/nf:.

'
Chu'rrworm. »./ [fromo'fifian, SaV.] „
,
An infeft that turns about nimbly; t,iflA RlofS.

To Chuse.

being cojitained therein, are

changed by wans of certain inliruracnts,
and
pnocjpaUv fire, that their levcral powers and
virtues are thereby difcovered, with
a view to^)hiio...fophy or medicine.
Bocrhaa-ue.
lo

The cbifriijiig of mi\k.bringet)> fojth bbtA^.
' ', •.
-•>J ''
•PMfris.
You may try the fores. pP imiginatioa, upjn
ftayiilg the coming of butter afier rlie

Of xva, toinelt ; by othcr^

written with j or «.]

tiicnj

Jrbutbnol on Mimcnli.

.

,n Man.

from an oriental y/ord, kema, black.
According to the fuppdfed etyhiology,

''iHckfilf,,,.

and in the aftioa uf the folid pajts, durning

p,^,-,

I

iden.

CBurred in'his teeth tfie foiiiiy vcao.ij tofc.
.

a philofopher

C H Y M ST R Y. «./ [derived byEffay
fome from

md.

'

;

by lire.
The flarving chymift, in his golden views

froth fills his, chaps; he fends a iri;ntiiu- fnund,

And part he civijj, _an4 pattbef-

drink not ripened by fermentation.

Prefcrr'd to (lerping cm her brcaft;.

2.

:

VEftrmt'.

perchance

CHY'MIST. n.f [See Chymistry.]

lent motipti.

Sbakejfctrt.

The interruption of their churhfi drums
Cuts off more i.ircumflance j they are at hand

.

.;'

To agitate or ftiakc any thing by a vio-

•

Shaktffcare.

Pspe:

Obfolete.

kept up by a few chymicu

G:ii'i

'

!

drop

of flow'rs.

mum.
Pajijrah.
^
Lhy MfCAXLY. adv. [from chyjuical.} In
,7o.Chuiim..v. a. [>f«'««;i Dutch.]

'.

Drydcn.

Dryden.

The ancients obferving in that material a
kind
or metallical nature, fecm
to have refolved it into
n.i)Wer ufc : an aft now utterly
loft, or

•

'

mold.

With chymkk art txalts the min'ral pow'rs,
Ai)d diaws the aromatick. fouls

long and vio-

fay

Wan..

Kelating to chymiftry.
Methinlcs already, from this chymick flame,

The veffel in

Sax.]

...

i fee a city -of more precious

from the ferous part of the milk.

.

Spm/er's Statt of Inland.
One of the bafer fort, which they call clur/s,
being rcpraved tor his oath, anfwered conJidentJy,
tiiat bis lord cpraiisandcd hirn.

.

Bmon.

lent agitation, coagulated and feparated

'

.

cejiene.

which the butter is,

A rurtick; a countryman; a labourer.
which he faith is

;

'

Drydcn.

F^I"',"'".-

2.

CHURN, it./, [properly chem, from ktm,

is

the lifjp of a ptefant or churl.

™,

a noife.

;

with waiting for thlt chyinkk gold.
fools us young, and beggars us
when old.

The medicines are ranged in boxes,
according
to their natures, whether
chymHal or Galenical pre-

He was conveyed to the Tower, with the churme

Peff.

to Work or'<ifc any hard labour,

[more properly chirm,
Saxon cyjime, a clamour or

noife ; as to chirre is to coo as a turtle.]
;

r'l

,.

tif"'!

nrl'-'^
Which

VEpangc.

Chvrme. »./

[

)

He hordetS himfelf a gcr.tlcinah, and fcoriieth

Ecclut. Hii. 14.

Ch.y'mi ex. I ''^J- Uh.»>t<^!'i latin.]
U Made by chymiftry.

In the charMpnth of fortune, a poor honeft man

ftrohg, ruliicks being always
obferved to be flrong bodied.]
1.

Chy MiCAL. 7

fuffers in this world.

CHURL, a. / [ceonl," Sax. carl, in German,

Milk is the chykui pait of an animal, already

"

(eous woman.

from the

Nor is Paul's church more fafe tlan Paul's.iarci'-

/ [tfotn- (hui-fi^j
''

In churcByardt where they bury much, the earth

No place fo faercj from fnch fops isTjarr'd

*.

fame

yirbutkna.

LOUS. adj. [from chyle.-\ Confifling

of chyle; p.irtaking of chyle.

Hc-uicl.

'

,

,

Bfre in \iit,(i»urihyerd, yet 1 will adventure.

BMtcn.

*=>'"*;

^
Chy

cyjihj-aiq-pe, Saxon.]- Brotafity; vng'
':'
gednefs of maiiher.
Btoer is tht ihutlifirsfi of attian tliWa ctnir-

I

ing to the church, in which the dead
are buried ; a cemetery.
I am almolt afraid to iHnd alone

'

-

.Chi; rlishnejs

Churchyard. ».y; The ground adjoin-

confume the corps in ftr shorter time tKan

.

put over tlie fon ftf a.ijewatil of the fcrvi&e of his

Ci mid like«>(e

other earth *ill.

more or Icls chyle may Be cxtrafted from the

'

.

Ctmiell.
charch-ivartUm, of the
graveft men in the psrilh, be appointed, as they be
here in iinj^iand.
Sperfer,
Our churcb-ivardens
Feaft on the Clyer, and give us the farthings; Gay.

wifl

C 1 c
According to tfhe force of tVtfhykpaetkk organs^

clmHiJh.\

^IftoSL

Rudely ; brutally.
To the oak, nolv regnant, the oiivo iMchurliJhly

•

of their pariih.
There

ati-v^

ing chyle.
i

2.

The

C I L

G I N

C I o

The (late of being healed, or fkinned Cima'r. SeeSiMAR.
Ci'ngle. n.f. [from cingulum, Lat.] A
over.
Cl M e'l A R C H ». /. [from K«l/*ljXl«f;^{.]
girth for a horfe.
DiB.
The firft ftage of heajing, or the difcharge of
The chief keeper of plate, veftments, Ci'nnabar. n.f. \cinnabarisy Lat.] Cinmatter, i» called digcftion
the fccond, or the

2.

I

:

fill-

ing up with fle(h, incarnation
j and the laft,
or
(kinning over, eicatrixaihn,
Starf's Surgery.
To Ci'cATRizE, -v. a. [from cicatrix.)
1.

To apply fudi medicines to wounds,

,

and things of value, belonging to a
church ; a church-warden.
Dia.
Ci'meter. n. f. [cimitarra. Span, and
Portug. from chimeteir, Turkiih. Blu-

nabar is native or faftitious; the fafU-

tious cinnabar is called vermilion.
Cinnabar is the ore out of which quickfilver is
drawn, and confiOs partly of a mercarial, and
partly of a fulphurco-ochreous matter.
Wcxd-ward's Met. Tofftls.
The particles of mercury uniting with the particles oi fulphur, compofe cinnabar, Ncivion'i Opt.

A fort of
fword ufed by the Turks, fliort, heavy,
2. To heal and induce the flciii over a fore.
and recurvated, or bent backward. This
We incarned, and in a few ilavs cidUr'aud it
word is fometimes erroneoufly fpelty?/- Cinnabar of Antimony, is made of merwith a fmooth cicatrijc.
fVifinan on Tumcurs.
mitar, nvti fcymiter ; as in the following
cury, fulphur, and crude antimony.
Ci'cELY./r./ [myrrhis."] A fort of herb.
examples.
Cl'NNAMON.».yr \cinnamomum, Lat.]The
Cichora'ceous. adj. [from cichorium,
By Ms frimiiar.
fragrant bark of a low tree in the ifland
Lat.] Having the qualities of fuccory.
That flew the fophy and a Pcrfian prince,
of Ceylon. Its leaves refemblc thofe of
Dlureticks evacuate the fjlt ferum
That won three fields of fultan Solyman. Shaieff.
as all acid
the olive, both as to fubftance and codiureticks, and the teftaceous and bitter cichwaarmours
Our
now may ruft, our idleyryiriVrrj
lour.
The fruit refembles an acorn or
tcMi plants.
Hang by our fides for ornament, not ufe. Drydcn.
f/cjo-.
olive, and has neither the fmell nor taftc
Cich'-pease. »./. \cicer.'\ A plant.
Ci'ncture. n.f. [cinaura, L.at.]
of the bark. When boiled in water, it
To CrCURATE. 'V. a. [cicuro, Lat.] To 1. Something worn round the body.
Now happy he, whofe cloak and cinBiire
yields an oil, which, as it cools and
tame ; to reclaim from wildnefs } to
Hold out this tempeft.
Sbakefpeare.
hardens, becomes as firm and white as
make tame and tradable.
Columbus found th' American fo girt
Poifons may yet retain £bme portion of their
tallow ; the fmell of which is agreeable
With feather'd cinSure, naked elfe, and wild.
natures J yet arc fo refrafted, ckuratcj, and fubin candles.
The cinnamon of the aaMilieu.
ducd, as not to make good their dellruflivc maHe
cients was different from ours. Chamb.
binds the facred ciiteiure round his breaft.
lignities.
Brmvni yulgar Emurs.
Let Araby extol her happy coaft
Cicura'tion. n.f. [from cicurate.'] The 2. An indofure.
Her cinnamon and fweet amumum boaft. '
aft of taming or reclaiming,irom wildDrydtn's Fables.
The court and prifun being within the cinHure
or ulcers, as heal and fkin them over.

teait's Portugue/e Diaionary.l

^incy.

;

nefs.

of one wall.

This holds not only in domeftick and manfucte
birds, for tlien it mitrht be the ert'eft n( cicuialkr:
or inftitution; but in the wild.

.

CITDER. n.f.

Ray en tbi Crcatkit.

[cidre, Yl.fidra, ll^.f^ra,

Lat. o-ix/ja, .^^I:^]
J . All kind of ftrong liquors, except wine.

This fenfe is now wholly obfolete.
made of the juice of fruits

2. Liquor
preffed.

Bacon's H.>iry VII.

[In architeflure.] A ring or lift at the
top and bottom of the Ihaft of a column ;
feparatingthe ftiaft at one end from the
bafe, at the other from the capital. It is
fuppofed to be in imitation of the girths
or ferrils anciently ufed to ftrengthen
and preferve the primitive wood columns.
Chambers.

3.

Cinnamon Water is made by diftilling
the bark, firft infufed in barley waiter,
in fpirit of wine or white wine. Chamb.

CIN^E. n.f [French.] A five.
Cinque-foil. n.f.

Cinque-pace.;?./ [cinque pas, Vt-I

3.

1

The juice of apples exprefl'ed and ferThis is now the fenfe.
To the utmoft bounds of thii

•

Wide univcrfe Silurian cider born,

Th.it wo'.ild to cinders burn up modelly.
Did but I ("peak thy deeds
Shakrfbeare.
There is in fmiths cinders, by fomc adhefion of

Shall pleafe all taftes, and triumph o'er the vme.

iron,

Ibmetimes

to

be found a magnetical opera-

tion.

Broivii.

grave.

Thole havens that lie towards France, and
therefore have been thought Yy our kings to be

Whofe rolling flames and fcatter'd cirjen fly.
.

ffaller.

When the cidtrifls have taken care for the bcft

2.

fruit, and ordered

them after the bell manner they
could, yet hath their cider generally proved pale,
and ill tafted.

A hot coal that has ceafed to flame.

To ilinkin;^ fmoke if turns the flame. Svvif:.
Ci'derkin. n./ [from oV^r.]
A low word ufcd f the liq'jor made of the murk CiN DER-WENCH. 7«./. [cinder And nullCl N D E R-wo MAN. J »«;!».] A Woman whofe
orgrofs matter of apples, after the cider is prellcd
>r

trade

plicj the place of fmall beer.

to

rake in heaps of alhes for

cinders.
'Tis under fo much nafty ruhbifh laid,

Cidtrkin is made for common dtioking, and fup'

is

To find it out 's the cindcr-<wcman's traniv,

M»rlimir.

Effay en Satire.

CiELiMO. n.f. SeeCtiLiNo.
CIERGE. n. f. [French.] A candle car-

and yet went abroad like a cinder-'wench.
jirhuthxct'i Hiftory of John Bull.

ried in proceffions.

In the black form of cinder-toencb Ihc came,
Vfheii

to the eyelids.

love,

the hour,

the p(acc lia4

The ciliary procefl' s, or rather the ligaments,

banifh'd

Of the W/Tjuf/iCT-ifj.
atakekeare.
C I N <^ E -s po T T E D .(T<^'. Having five {pots.
On her Ic.'t breaft

A mole, einjue fpetled, like the crimfon drops
r til' bottom' of a cowflip.

emfiRATfON ti.f [from cinere!,Lzu]

oVfcivtJ in the infidc of the fcletotick tuniclet of
the eye, do ferve inlleaj of a miifcle, by the con-

by

The cloth of ftatc above her, arc four barons

Gay-

lliime.

called

They, that bear

She had above five hundred fuits of fine cloaais,

Ci'liary. culj. [cilium, L.it.] Belonging

govemour or keeper,

Lord Warden of the cin-jue pons ; and
divers privileges granted to them, as a particular
jurifdidion ; their warden having the authority of
an admiral among them, and fending out writs in
bis own name. The cinjue ports are Dover, Sand.
w;ch, R;e, Haftin;}3, Winchelfea, Rumney, and
Hitbe ; forae of which, as the number exceeds
five, muft either be added to the firft inftitution
by fo.ne later grant, or accounted as appendants
to I'oine of the rell.
CawelU
his ofEce

The fat upon a cinder drops.

out, and a convenient quantity of boiled water
Atlded to it; the whole infufmg for about fortyeight hour».
Pti/lif I'l IVerld of ff^ords.

fuch as ought molV vigilantly to be obferved againft
inyafi )n.
In which rcfpeii, the places wliere tbey
arc have a fpecial

If from adown the hcpcful chops

Morlimcr.

Shakefpeare.

CiN quE-PORTS. n.f. [cinque ports, Fr.]

So fnow on ^tna does unmelted lie,

A maker

of cider.

fliarp,

and a cinqve-face. The fiirt fuit is
hot and hafty, like a Scotch jig, and full as fantallical; the wedding, mannerly and modeft, as a
meafurcfuii of ftatc and gravity; and then comes
repentance, and, with bis bad legs, falls into the
cirjue-face fafter and fader, till he finks into his

!

Philifi.

Ci'derist. k./. [from ciiier.]

Wooing, wedding, and repenting, is a Scotch
jig, a meafure,

A mafs ignited and quenched, without
being reduced to alhes.
1 Ihould make veiy forges of my cheeks,

mented.

A

kind of grave dance.

Lat.]

of the grape, a kind of cider made of a fruit nf that
a wonderful picafing and rcfrefliing

{cinque feuille, Fr.J

A kind of five-leaved clover.

We had alfo drink, wholefome and good wine Cl'NDER. n.f. \ceindre, Fr. from cineres,

' country ;

It is

ufed in games alone ; but is often compounded with other words.

Sbakefpeare.

The redudlion of any thing by fire to Ci'oK. n.J'. [fan, or fcicn, French.]
alhes.

ttaflion, to alter the figure of the eye.

Ray on the Creat'tta,

CiLi'cious.

adj.
[fjom cilidum, hair^
cloth, Lat.] Made of hair.
A garment of camel's hair, that is, made of
fame texture of that hair ; a coaric f arment, a
cilicitut or facLdoth habit, fuitabie to the aufleritv
•f his lilc.
Smvjt'i I'lilgJr Errturs.

A term of chymiftry.

1

;

a (hoot from a plant.

We

h.ne rcifon to cool our raging motions, our
carnal (tings, our unbittcd lufts ; whereof I take
this, that you call love, to be a feft or cion. Sbak,

Tlie nerves arife from tlic glands of tlie cineriof the brain, and are terminated in all
parts
the body.
Chcyne.

The ftately Caledonian oak, newly fettled in his
triumphant throne, begirt with cions of his own

tious part

'

Cinb'rulent, adj. [from cinerts, Lat.]
fullofaOies.
I

A fprout

Cineri't jous, adj. [cineridu!, Lat.]
Having the form or ftate of afhes.

'

.

Dia.

royal ftem.

2.

Jlovtel.

The flioot engrafted or inferted on a
ftock.

•

The

C I R

C I R

The c'lOH over-ruleth the ftock and the ftock 13
J

'lis grifr.

An affembly furrounding the pruicipal

.

lut pafTive, and giveth aliment, but no motion, to

/

3.

To have a box where eunuchs fing,

Fr. zi/ra, Ital.

[clii/ri,

An arithmetical charafter, by which

2.

fome number is noted a figure.
An arithmetical mark, which, ftanding

A company
ties

gold; and o'er the

throne.

Asms and thi Man in golden cifhtrt (hone.
Deep on the new-fhorn vagrant's heaving fide
To ftamp the mafter's cifher ready ftand. Thimfm,
character in general.
4.
Ill lucceeding tiawis this wifdom began to be

He led me up

A woody mountain, whofe high top was plain,
A circuit wide inclos'd.
Mi/ton's Paradife Loft.
3.

He attributeth' unto it fmallnefs, in refpcft of
'''"%''•

Hooker.
The lake of^„
Bolfena is reckoned one-and-twenty
miles in circuit.
Addifon on
,

4.

;.

In circle or oblique, or femicircic.
.'

You mull challenge him.

*

Fletcher's Sltieen of Ccrinth.

in number ten.

Diniam.

You have been bred to bufmefs ; you can chitr

Trc'voux.

7.

a.

He freijuented fermons, and penned notes
nt.tes he cijhired with Creek ch^aflers.

his

IhyxuarJ.

Of her tw

1

begun, having all its parts equidiftant
from a common centre.
Any thing thjt iriovcs round about in a cWdi,
time than our ideas are wont to fucceed
one anorhcr in our minds, is not perceived to
move; but feems to be a perfcdl intire circlr of
that matter, or cotour, and not a part of a circle in
motion.
Lockt.
By a circh\ underdand not hercperfeft geometrical circle, but an oibicular figure, whofe length
is equal to its breadth; and which, as t. fenfe, may
fcem circular.
NcviUn's Oftieis.
in lefs

yi'thiitkaeU circled »nA an ambient cloud.

To Circle

3.

in.

together.

We

term thofc things dry which have a confidence within thcmfelves, aad which, to enjoy a
determinate figure, do not require the flop or
hin.
drance of another body to limit and circle them in.

n RCLE. 1;, ».
Ci
'

cr
i«

2.

The fpace included iti a circular line.

3.

A round body

4.

...
Compafs

an orb.
Jfeiab,

inclofure.

A great magician,
Obfcured in the eiriU of the forcft.

XT

Ptilifs.

Now the circling years difdofe
,

..

The day predcftin'd to reward his woes.
Pcpe'sOdyJfcy.

,

Ci RCLED. adj. \{xom circle.
form of a circle ; round.

Pope.

Circui'tiov.^./ [circiiiiio, Lat.]
1. The afl of going round any thing.
2. Compafs; maze of argument.
To apprehend by what degrees
things

m

they lean to

fliow, though not in deed,
repugnant
one to another, rcquireth more flurpnefs
of wit,
more intricate circuities of difcouifc, Srid
depth
of judgment, than common ability doth
yield.

Hcikr.

v-i

RCULAR. adj. [circulari:, Latin.]

I.

Round, like a circle;, circumfcribcd by
a circle.
The frame thereof fcem'd partly circular,
Ani part triant.ular.
fairy

He fird inclos'd for lifts a level g-ound
;
The form was circular.
Dry Jens

^ueeii.

Fables.

Nero's port, compofed of huge moles
running
round it in a kind oi circular figure.

Th* inconflant moon.

That monthly changes in her circled orb.

Ci'RCLKT. n.f. [from (/></(?.]
StahJ/>tare.

Having the

One

Like your fellow circuiteer, the fun, you
trav/-l
the round of the earth, and behold
all the iniquities under the heavens.

_ ,

T!ie well fraught bowl

Philip,.

that travels a circuit.

'^'^''y "" •*'"''"•

"l

he that fitteth upon the circle of the earth.
;

Quick circuiting.

™
To move circularly;

Circl.i incefTint; -.vhilft the
huiribleccll

the noun.

Circuite'er. n.f. [from circuit. ]

to end where it begins.

With quavering laugh and rural jcfts refounds.

[flora

Pining with Cjuinoaial heat, u«[efs

Pope.

To confine;, to keep

n.

The cordial cup perpetual motion keep,

While thefe fond arms, thus circling you, may
prove

-v.

To move circularly.

Shakeffcarc.

Then a deeper ftiU,
In circle following circlr, gatlicrs round
To clofe the face of things.
Thomfons Summer.

-

To Ci'rcuit.

t-nfeen, he glided thro' the joyous crow.i,

A line Continued till it ends where it

It is

ot" proceeding
to recover the
thing fued for than is needful.
Co^ell.

branches, timfe fw^tt ornaments,

More heavy chains than tliofe of hopelefs love.

CI'RCLE. «.y: \_drculus, Latin.]

_

courfe

to furround.

'"1?

orbicular motion ; a turning round ; a
meafuring with the compaffes.
Bailej.

;

CtKcvir of aaion. [Inlaw.] Is a longer

Whofe circling ihadows kings have fought to deep

Bailey.

Ci RC I N a'tion. n.f. {cininatio, Lat.] An

1.

;

Have lopp'd and hew'd, and mule thy body bare

round, or

turn round.

Bacor.

What ftern jngentlc hands

To Cj'rCinaTH. i». a. [circino, Lat.] To

make a circle ; to compafs

To inclofe

2.
:

Long deduftion of renron.
;

And other planets circle oihcr funs. Pcfc's Duticiad.

charafters.

by the

Nor hear thr.i' labyrinths of ears, nor learn
By circuit or coliections to difccin.
Danrtc,.

Another Cynthia her new journey runs.

To write in occult

of country vifited

Up into the watch towen got,
And fee all things defpoii'd of falLicies
Thou (halt not peep thro' lattices of eyes.

that were appointed to circle the
had fome days belore planted Uicmfelves
in

places convenient.

^rfyutlnc!.

To "Ci'pHER. v.

.ibout

Djvi,i.

tradl

judges.

The lords,
hill,

Do cilm the fury of this mad-brain'd flaw. Shak.
The vifitations of the judges for holding aflifes.
The circuits, in former finics, went hut round

The

6.

7cCi'PHER. 1/. ». [from the noun.] To To Ci'rcle. v. a. [from the noun.]
praflife arithmetick.
I. To move round any thing.
1 wo.-.der you never ufcd your pen and ink.

that by which any

'''^Po'^-

provinces and principalities as have a
right to be prefent at diets.
They are

don, to fend and receive all his letters ; and I was
furniihed with mine feveral ciphers, in order to it.

Italy.

;

about the pale ; as the circuit of the cynofura

Circles of the German Empire. Such

10.

A ring; a diadem

And this fell tempefl: rtiall not ccafe to rage,
.Until the golden circuit on my head

Has he given the lye

Or direa parallel

,

thing is incircled.

IVatts's Ligich.

This book, as long liv'd as the elements.

Space; extent; meafured by travelling
round.

9. Circumlocution ; indireft form of words.

the key to it.

fyatts on the Mind.

.

is queftioncd and oppol'e.i,
and we intend to prove it by the cODclufion.

A fecret or occult manner of writing, or

moons alio perpetually rolling
planet Jupiter, and carried along with

arc four

tl-.e

The fpace mclofed in a circle.

2.

preraiflcs in a fyllogifm

written in cifhin anj charafters, and letters bearing the form of creatures.

Dcnne.

There

That fallacy called a circle, is when one of the

A

circuitut,

The aft of moving round any thing.
round

That heavy bodies defccnd by gravity ; and
again, that gravity is a quality whereby an heavy
body defcends, is an impertinent circle, 'and teacheth nothing.
Glamillc'i Scepjls.

Some mingling ftir the melted tar, and fome

Fr.

him in his periodical circuit round the fun.

And the year rolls within itfelf again. Dryd. Virjr.
8. An inconclufive form of argument, in
which the foregoing proportion is proved
by the following, and the following propofition inferred from the foregoing.

An intertexture of letters engraved ufu-

He was plealed to command me to ftay at Ljii-

1.

in fgcculcnt plants, and hot countries.
Bacon.
Thus in a circle runs the pcafant's pain.

ally on boxes or plate.

Rjidgh'l Hijiory 0/ the Wirtd.

Milton sPcradifc Leji.

[circuit,

Latin.]

Ihe/e be fjttit trees in hot countries, which
have bloffims and young fruir, and young fruit
and ripe fruit, ahnoft all the year, fuc'ceeding one
another; but this circle of ripening cannot be but

Skakifjcare.

In c':fbtr writ, or new-made idioms.

Of night's extended ihade.

Tatlcr.

Any feries ending as it begins, and CrRCUIT. n.f.
perpetually repeated.

or tranflation.
Bacort,
As, in accounts, ciftert and figures paft for real
fums, fo names pals fur things.
South-

5.

flood

So high above the circling canopy

_

fomewhat in the eleiSion, you

in burniih'd

him the whole circle of beauthat are difpofed among the boxes.
Addifon.

circle.

7.

cjnnot make them nulls or cifhtn in the prii'stirn

Troy flam'd

an aflembly.

Ever fmce that time, Lifander vifits in every

for nothing itfelf, increafes the value of
the other figures.
Mine were the very cifbrr of a funAIon,
To find the faults, whofe fine ftands in record,

3

;

I will cill over to

;

It the people be

cle.] Having the form of a circle
; circular ; round.
Round he furveys, and well might, where he

Pope's Birace,

1.

OJyJp.

Ci'v-Chlti a. participial adj. [from To cir.

And, tbtemoft in the circle, eye a king.

a/ra, low Lat. from an oriental root.]

And let go by the aflor.

Then taJce rcpaU, till Hefperus difplay'd
His golden circlet in tlie weflcrn /hade. Pope's

perfon.

Bacct.

CrPHER

C I R

Shai.

A circle

an orb : properly a little circle.

_
2. buccellive

;

m order

Addifn OK Italj.

.

;

always returning.

From whence th" innumerable race of things
By circular fucccflive order fptiiig*..
Rof.omm'.n,
3' Vulgi»,j.

As for tl>e fins of peace, thou ha<l.brougbt upon
ut ll>e niifki\tt of war ; To for the fini of war, tliou
feeft fit 10 deny us the billing of peace, and to

Vulgar ; mean ; circumforaneous.

3.

Had Vircllbten J c.r.vlar poet, and clefcly
aJhcrtd tu oiflory, huw could ihc Koinans have
DtmU.
had Dido?
-4. Ending in itfdf: ufed of a paralogilm,
where the fecond propofitiou at once
proves the firft, and is proved by it.
One of Cartes's tint principles of reafoning,

2.

fjrni'd.

T^e whole circuvfatafe a mile around.
pryden'i Ffhiet.

When the apoftle faith of the Jews, that they

bad doubted of every thing, feems to be
too circular tu fifcly build upon ; for he is for
proving the being of GoJ from the truth of our
faculties, and the truth of our faculties from the
Baker't R-ffltfi- o» Letrmng.
bcir% of a God.

ATi!tt>n*

Ht firft inclos'd for lifts a level ground,

A reciprocal interchange of meaning.

3.

The fpace inclofed in a circle.
So was Ms will
Pronounc'd among tl^c gods, and by an oatb>
That ihook heav'n's whole circumferaue, ccn-

keep us in a cirm/urion'Of mifcries.
K, ChurUt.
God, by (he ordinaiy lule of nature, permits
this continual chculut'im cf human things.
Swiften Modirm Et'»iati9w.

after he

,

G I R

C 1 R

C I R

3.

when the Son of
roan, being on earth, athrnieTh that the Son of man
was in hea<en at the £une initant, tbeie is is thrle
tvvo fpeeches, that mutual iinulaikn before mentioned.
Hxkir.
,
crucified the Lord of glory ; and

The external part of an ortsicular body.
The bubble, being looked on by the light of the
clouds reflefled from it, feemed red at its apparent
If the clouds »-ctc viewed thcough
ciriuafireme.
it, tlie

colour at its c'tnufftrcnce would be blue.

A letter direfted Ci'rculatorv. It./, [from circulate.] 4. An orb a circle
to feveral perfons, who have the fame
A chymical veflel, in wliich that which
or orbictilar.

5. CiRCVLAR Letter,

interell in

;

lome common

affair;

as in

from the veffel on the fite is colleftcd and cooled in another fixed upon
it, and falls down again.
Ci'RCULATORY. oilj. [ from circulate. ]

Ck-Cular SatJivg, is that performed
on the arch of a great cir<;le.
Circula'ritv. n.y". [from circular.'] A
7.

figuie according unco the fur-

Bnivn^i l^ulgar Errcurs,

Circumfere'ntOr. ti.f, [from circumAn inftruferp, Lat. to carry about.]

I

run round ;

to return to the place whence it departed

To CIRCUMDU'CT. 1/. a.

traded.

\ duStcd by

a

Cryftallrne ocean.

Motion in a circle ; a courfe in winch
the motion tends to the point from which

Poiie's Odyffry.

eircuhiicn of tlic blood, unknown till tlje laft age?
Burnetts *Thc:ry:

through the lungs a^
the circuleiUn i*
through all the reft of the body
quick'jr, and heat greater, and their texture cx-1
Arhuiimi in AtmcniiJ
trcmeiy delicate.
pafTctli

:

A feries in which the fame order

is al-l

ways obferved, and things alwaye-re?ur-n!
tfr the fame Hate.

Wandering from houfe to
houfe : as, a circumfor.intcus fiddler, one
neus, Latin.]

]

To ClRCUIvIFU'SE. f.

Nullification; cancellation.

The citation may be clrcumdudlcd, though tlie

Lat.]

defendant fhould not appear and the defendant
mult be cited, as a cucumjuflkn xt(\\nxK.
Ayhffc's Partfgcn.

way.

;

A, leading about.

,

By loag nm,mdu£ikn perhaps any truth may be
' Hacker*
derived from any other truth.

CIRCU'MFERENCE. n.f. [circum/irenI,

^

1

The periphery; the line including and
furrounding aay thing.

|

Extend thus far thy bounds.

Miliar
iBtcault the hero is the centre of the main actend
t<^
elrcumjirer.ce
tion, all the lipes from the

DryJcn.
him alone.
Firqj moved nimbly in the circumftrmct of aj

makes the whole c'lrtfimfcr^nce appear like

a circle oflfire.

To pour round

;

a.

[circumfufus,

to ipread^ every

Men fee better, when their eyes are againft the
fun, or candle, if they put their hand befoie their
eie. The glaring fun, or candle, weakens the eye
wbeicas the light clrcutiifujed is cno\)gti for the per-

Bacon^i Katurat Hijiory,
His am>y, ctrcumfus'd on either wing.- Mtitm.
Earth, with her nether ocean cinum/ui'd.
Their pleafant dweHinj;-houfe.
JUilcmThi.'. nvmph the God Ccphifus had abus'd.
With all his winding waters eircumfus'd,

ception.

jiiidijon'i Ovid.

This be thy juft nici.mf,r(tice, O world!

circle,

[circumfora-

that plays at doors.

dua.]

tia, Latin.]

What more ctivious, one would think, than the

Circumfora'neous. adj.

Ayliffc'i Partrgon,

it began.

""

Miltm' i Peradife Lojf.

Latries' fon, girt with riirsm/iiieui. tides.

the will and direction of the judge; as
confent of the oarties litiganr, before

CiRCUMDu'cTiON. «.y;^[from circum-

2.

He tlie world

.

-duiit on circutftjluous waters calm, in wide

the judge has pronounced aad given lenfence.

Siv:ft,

Circula'tion. n.f. [ from circulate. ]

a.

Envirouing with waters.

[circumduco,

Afts of judicature may be cancelled and clrcum.

T. <i. To put about.
In the civil wars, the money fpent on bntli liries
wat circulated at home ; no publick debts 4o»-

As much bipod

Pafe'l Odyfry.

CiKCv'MTLVOva.aJJ. [circumfluus, Lat.]

Miltcn.

term of civil law.

7tf Ci'rcu.late.

rule the I'aphian race,

A duteous people, and induftiious ifte.

To contravene; to nullify:

Lat.]

1.

1.

1

alfn by the

As the mints of calumny arc perpetually at
work, a great number of curious inventions, ilVucd
out from time to time, grow current among the
party, aad lirculale ihtougk the whole Icibgdom.

[circumfuens

.Whofe bounds the deep circumJiMnt waves embrace

They left a race behind
Like to themfelves, diftinguifhable fcarce

To be difperfed.

An inclofuie of waters.

Lat.] Flowing round any thing.

The rite or aft of cutting off the foro-

Dcnham.
and the work of

the univerfe tirculaia without any interval or rcpofe.
L'EJiravgt.

fueni.]

CIRCU'M FLUENT, adj.

fltin.

From Gentiles, but by c\rcumc}Jt^n vain.

If our lives motions theirs muft imitate.

CiRcu'MELUJtKCE.u.y. [from circuiti-

Ci ECUMCl'siON. ».yl [from circunci/c]

Our kaowledge like our blood muit circuhtt.

2.

The cinumjicx keeps the voice in a middle tune,
and therefore in. the Latin is compounded of both
the other.
HJdtr,

in aiming to ftrenjjtiitn their routed party by a
reinforcement from the circuficijtj. S-wifl'i Epcarn.

conftant courfe.

Nature is a perpetual motion ;

nunciation of fyllables, including or
participating the acute and grave.

[circtiiiicido,

Td cut the prepuce or forefkin,
according to the law ^iven to the jews.
Laic.
They canie to draofi'/t 'he child.
One is alarmed at the induftry of the whi^s,

fo Ci'rculate. t. n. [from cireultu.']

in. a

a.

"J.

Lat.]

DryJin.
Every body, moved ar<ularly about any centre,
recede,
from
that
centre
tecedcs, or endeavours to
Ray.
of its motion.

to

Dia.

about.

To CIRCUMCrSE.

Stopp'i
topp'd in their channels, found its freedom loft.

;

Chambers.

focket.

,

To CiRCUM a'mbulate. I". ». [from cir- CI'r CUM FLEX. n.f. [<-/)r.v;/^f;r«j, Lat.]
An accent ufe<l to regulate the procum a.ad a/niulo, Lat.] To walk round

With a circular motion.

To move in a circle

for meai'uring
angles, coufifting of ,a brafs circle, an
index with fights, and a compafs, and
mounted on a i\s.S, v.'ith a ball and

The cirtumupihiitis coldnefs towards the fijlcr of

'

Trade, which, like blomi, (hould drnlarly flow,

ment ufed in furveying,

encom-

the veflel, like the fecond region, cooling and c<mH'^ilk'»:si
denfing of it.

gions, involving one another like orbs about the
faifie centre ; or of the feveral elements caft r.rcuBurnet.
hrly about each other.

1

Sroun.

ambio, Latin.] Surrounding ;
pafling; indofing.

In form of a circle.
The internal form of it confifts of feveral re-

2.

its

form-th it.

a fimplicity of pjrts, and equitormity in motion,
continuilly fucceftding each other ; fo that, I'ron^
what point focvcr wc compute, the account will ba
Brs^-n.
common unto the whole circulaniy.

1

riot is the vigour of this great body included
only in itfelf, or eiicumfertrce by its furfacej but
diffufcd at indeterminate diftjnces.

CIRCUMA'MDIENT. aJj. [circum and

The heavens have no divcrfity or difFcrtnce, but

y

.

face it concreteth or tlie circumi>mi''>'cy which con-

Ice rcc«i\cth

circular form.

Ci'rci;!. arly. aJ'v. [from circular.

nOun.] To indnde in a circular (pace.
Not, proper.

Circulatory Letters are the f^e with
Ciit.cv;LA». Leiiert.
Ci RcuM a'm^biancv. ?/./. [from circumamiiait-] The aft of encorapaffing.

fcale and i'eflor.

'

His pond'rous ihield, large and round.
Behind him caft; the broad circumf revet
'
Huni; on his thuulders like the moon.
Miltm,
7« Ci rcu'mference. v. a. [from the

rifes

the convocation of aflemblies.
Circular Lines. Such fbaight lines
as are divided from the divifions made
in the arch of a circle j as the lines of
fines, taflgi^nts, and l«A<kn(Sj on the plain

6.

Nnutcn's Optickj,

any ^ing circular

;

Nra-tcn.

ClRCUMFu'siLE. adj. [circum 3.l^d^ fufilis,
Lat.] That which may be poured or
'fpread round any thing.
.»\rti8 divine, whofe Ikilful hands infold

The vlftira 5 horn with cinumfufilt gold.
Pcfe's Odyjfry.

Circum-

C I R

C I R

C I R

C R c u w F u's o N w. y; [from eircumfuft. ] Circumrota'tiom. n. f.
I

I

Ci'RCtJMSPECTLy. ad'v. [from circutnfpeS-l With watchfulnefs every way ;

The aft of whirling round with a mo-

cautioufly ; watchfully ; vigilantly.
Their authority weighs-more with me than the

1.

CIRCU'MGyRATE. -v-a. [«>f»«and

tion like that of a wheel ; circumvolution ; circumgyration.

T- roll round.

gyrus, Lat.]

All thegiands,of'the body be congeries cf various
forts of veiFels curled^ ciTcumgyra'cdy

and compli-

fcribo, Lat.]
1 .

2.

Travel forces circumfpefimfs on thofe abroad, who

Circumi'tion.
circumitum,

a.

Lat.]

/

Something appendant or relative to a
faft : the fame to a moral aftion as acci-

Therefore muft his choice be circtimfcrib'i

[from circumeo,
aft of going
Diil.

dent to a natural fubftance.

Unto the voice and yielding of that body
Whereof he 's head.
ShaiffKJrc.

The

n. /,

Latin.]
1 .

Sbahefpeate,

round.

Circumliga'tion.

'

When men are ingenious in picking out cir*
cumflancci of contempt, they do kindle their anger

He forro'd the pow'rs of heav'n

1

Such as he.{ikas'd, and cinumjirib'd tlieir being

\circumlsgo,

much.

Milton.

The aftion great, yet cinumftrib'd by time ;
The words not forc'd, but Aiding into rhime. Dryd.
The external circumftances which do accom-

The nft of binding round.
2. The bond with which any thing is en1.

compafTed.

Ci Rc u

pany men's adls, arc ihofe which io ch-cumftrihe
and limit thejn.
Siillhgjiect.
You are above
The little forms which arcurvfcribc your fex.

I

locu't ION. n. f.

\circumlacutio,

Latin.]

A circuit or compafs of words

1 .

peri-

;

CiRCuMSCRi'pTiOK. tt.f. \circumfcriptio,

Virgil, (ludying brevity, could bring thefe words
into a narrow compafs, which a tranllator cannot
render without circum/cfuritns^
Drydtn.

1.

names, becaufe it would favc abundance oi time,
2.

by cit L:/mIocuikn,

Swift,

more or lefs criminal; or make an accufation more or lefs probable.
Of thefe fuppofed crimes give me leave.
By circumflnnce, but to acquit myfi-lf. Shakrfpeare.

Accident ;
fomething adventitious,
which may be taken away without the
annihiLition of the principal thing con-

3.

Determination of particular form or
magnitude.
In the arcumjcrtpihn of many Icavps, flowers,
fruits,

j

The ufe of indireft expreffions.

The adjunfts of a faft, Which make it

2.

Latin.]

I muchprtfcrthe plain Biliingfijate wjy of cailing

K'll

vary and change their very nature, according to
different r;rf«w/?(;K«j of time, place, and perfons.

^^uthcrn.

phrafis.

Bacon'' sEjJkys,.

Our confe/fing or concealing perliicuted truths,

!

I
'

Latin.]

Wott-m.

CI'RCUMSTANCE. /?./. [circumjlantia,

With honour and witJT fortune is returnM
From whence \a circumjtribcd with his fword,
And brought to yoite the enemies of Rome.

\

bor-

at home arc nurfcrd in fecurity.

The good Andronicus

[^cimmj actus,

aiij.

Caution; vigilance; watchful-

nefs on every fide.

To bound; to limit; to confine.

Cbtyne,

Lat.] Lying round any thing ;
dering on every fide.

fpc^.l

To inclofe in certain lines or boundaries.

The fun turiss round his own axis in twenty-five
d»yj, from his firft being put into fuch a lircumgj.

Circumja'cent.

Ray en the Crtauon.

roCIRCUMSCRI'BE. -j. a. [circum and Ci'rcumspectness. 71./. [from circum-

Circumgvra'tion. n. f. [from circumgyrau.] The a£l of running round.
rJllsrt,

concurrent fuftVagcs of a thoufar.d eyes, who never

examined the thing fo carefully and cii cum/ptffly.

The ftate of being whirled round.

2.

Ray nr. the Criathn.

cated together.

Lat.]

rcto,

being poured round,
Tfl

\circum and

.

The aft offpreading round; the ftateof

fidered.
Senfe outfide knows, the foul thro' ail things fees {
Senfe, circuriflance ; fl)e ioth the fubftance view.

and feeds, nature affe^s a regular figure.

Davits.

Ray on the Creation.
;

T^efe pe^iple are not to be dealt Ck'ithal, but by a
train of myftery and circumlayikn.
L'Ejhargt.

Ci rcummu'red. adj. \^circum and murus,
Lat.] Walled round ; encompafied with

Sbuktffieare,

round.

The being of Antipodes, the hibitablenefs of
the torrid zone, and the leniiering the whole terraqueous globe cirtufr.ftavJgitbU, Ray cs the Crearhr,
a.

[^circum

and nazigc, Lat.] To fail round.
CiRcuMN aviga'tion. k. /. [from </>-

cumnavigau.] The aft of failing round.
What he fays concerning the circLmnavigathn vl
Africa, from the ftraits of Gibraltar to the R' i
Sea, is very remarliable.
JlrluihrM
Ca'mi.

m

Circumna'vicator. n./. One that fails
round.

Circumplica'tion. n. /.

\cercumpUco,

The aft of enwrapping on every fide.
2. The (late of being enwrapped.
Circcmpo'lar. adj. [from cinum and
1.

Stars near the North pole, whitii

move round it, and never (ei in

the

Northern latitudes, are faid to be dr-

Circumposi'tion. n. f. [from circum
and pojiiion.] The aft of plating any
thing circularly,

Now ii your feafua for c'trcumpifuhn, by tiles or
bafltets of earth.

£w!yn-s Ka/tndar.

Circum ra'sion. n. /. [ciraimra/io, Latin.]

Put into circLptfcription and confine.

He defended Carlifle with very remarkable circutnj}anccs of courage, induftry,

Shahfpeare.

The

round.

Vot.L

aft

of fhaviog or paring
jJi^,

and patience.
Clarendcn*

The fculptor had

Inclofing the fuperticies ; mark-

queror's weeping for

in

his

thoughts the Con-

new worlds, or the like cir-

ing the form or limits on the outfide.

cutiijiance in hiilory.

Stones regular, arediftingui/hed by their external.
forms : fucb as is circumjcriptivej or depending
upon thewholellone, as in the eagie-ftone, is pro-

raoft terrify the imagination, and wliich really
happen In the raging of a tcmpclf.
AddJ. Sped.

perly called the figu;e.

Crciv.

CIRCUMSPE'CT.

adj.

Addifon*
'The poet has gathered thofe circumfiances which

Lat.]
Cautious ; attentive to everything ; watchful on all fides.
None arc for me.
That look into me with confid'rate ej-es
High reaching Bucki;igham grows circunjpcli.

Bacon,
ught not to conclude, that if there be rational inhabitants in any of the planets, they mult
therefore have human nature, or be involved in the
circiinijtanca of our world.
Benlley*
When mcti are eafy in their circumjiar.ccs, they
are naturally enemies to innovations.
cifitimjlar.ieu

We

Sbakejprarc.

Men of their own nature cirnimfptH and llow,
but at the time difcountcnanced and dilcontent.
Haytvcul.
The judicious doflor had been very wati:hful and
circutnJl 1:3 , to keep himlelf from being impofcd
•
upon.
liiyh:
fptct.'\

Claicn.{'jii.

To worthiert things,
Virtue, art, beauty, fortune, now 1 fee,

Rarenels or ufe, not nature, value brings;
And luch as they are cinumjianc'd, they be. Dome,

Ci'rcumstant. a///, [circumjlans, Lat.]

So faying, his proud ftcp he fcornfal tuin'd.
But with fly tlrcumjpiflion. Milt!,n'iParadiJeL<>Jf.

Surrounding ; environing.
Its beams Hy to viCt the remoteft parts of the
world, and it gives motion to all cinumjlant bodies.

;

attentive ; vigilant ; cautious.

No

1

Is

Circumsta'ntial. adj. [circumjiantialit,

alike the politick and wile.

All fly flow things, with eircumJftSti'vt eyes. Pofie.

CiRcuMSpp'cTiVELY. ad-v. [from circuinjpe^lt've.'l

Cautioufly ;

attentively

with watchfulnefs

way ;

Digby on the SouU

Looking round every

way

;

watchfully.

CTRfuMSTANCE. -v. a. [from the
noun.] To place in particular fituation,

or relation to the things.

tion ;
Ubfcrve the fuddengtowth of wickednefs, from
want of care and eircumfpcfiiori in the fiift iinprtffionj,

;

Add'ijons Freeholder,

To

n. /. [horn circiimWatchfulnefs on every fide i caugeneral attention.

cumjpetlum, Lat.]

Condition ; ftatc of affairs.
It is frequently ufcd with refpeft to wealth or
poverty ; as, good or ill circumjfances.
None but a virtuous man can hope well in a't

5.

[circum/feaus,

Circumspe'ctive. adj. [ circuinj'pido, cir-

cumfolar Jlars.

event: generally of a mimlte

or fubordinate kind.

I would not ray unhoufej ftzt condition

Ci Rcumspe'ction.

Lat.]

fo/ar.]

4. Incident^

confinement.

/criie.]

Ci rcumn'a'vigable.<7<^'. [from circumnatiigaie.]
That which may be failed

1/.

boundary ; contraftion ;

CiRCUMSCRl'pTlVE. adj. [from circum-

a wall.
He bath a garden cinummured with bricks.

To Circumna'vioate.

2. Limitation ;

vigilantly;

every

1.

low Lat.]
Accidental

;

'I'lils

not eflential.
fierce abridgment

Hath to it cinLtnJIiinlial braiichci, wliich
Diflindtion would h^ rich in.

Shakef^eare,

This jurifdiOion in the efl'entials of it, is as old
as chtiftianity ; and thofe circun'ffjntial addition's

s f

oi

.

C I R

C I T

C I T
mud be a wifdom from «bo»e

ofrecalarenconragcment, cbrifiian princes thooglit

clreamvfHlieii ! there

ntccrtiry.

to over-teach this hcUilh wifdom.

Siuik.

WhD would not prefer a religion that differs from

If be

ourown in the circtimjiartiah, before one that diffei s
from it in the clliintials ?
Mdihii'i Fntb Idcr.
2. Incidental ; happening by chance ;

CMier tf Potularsiy.

Prevention; pre-occupation. Thisfenfe
is now out of ufe.

t.

He had been provoked by men's tedious and
cimimftanuni recitals of their

To Circomve'st. 'V. a. [circumvejiio,
Lat.] To cover round with a garment.
And mad'ft thedceptocirniWK^ it round. IV'.tton.

Cjrcumstantia'lity. n.f. [from cir- Circumvola'tion. n.f. [from aVfK/wcumfiaKlialJ] The appendage of circumWfl, Lat.] The aft of flying round.
ilances
the ftate of any thing as modi- 7c Ci Rcu mvo'lve. t. a. [rircumvelve,
;

fied by circumftaiices.

Ci R c u M s T a'n T A L L y
I

According to circumftance ; not effentially ; accidentally.
Of the fancy and jnteileft, the powers are only
tircumjianiially diflFerent.

GlairvllU's Scepf:s.

Minutely ; exaftly ;
itance or particular.

2.

in every circum-

Lucian agrees with Homer in every po'nt cir-

tus,

Uti^ift.

upon the Tarpcian mountain.

To inclofe round with

The art or adt of calling up fortifications round a place.

When the czar firft acquainted hiinfclf with
mathematical learning, he praftifed all the rules of

Pofe.

CIST. n.f. [cijla, Latin.] A cafe a tegument commonly ufed in medicinal

2.

Watts.

The fortification or trench thrown up
round a place beficged.

«.

/

[circurmje£lio,

relieve him.

To CIRCUMVE'NT. -v. a. [drcumvenic,
;

to delude.
He, fearing to be betrayed or arcumvinled by his

cruel brother, fled to BarbarnfTa.

As

eumveirt the ions cf [he Arft deceived.

Bmun't yulgar Erf. «/».
Should man
Fall (ireuiKvented thus by fraud. MUtm's Pen Left,
Obrtinately bent

To die undaunted, and to circitmvtM.

Circumve'ntiok. m. /.

Dryden.

[from circum-

•Uu'fl/.]

I.

3.

Fraud; impofture ; cheat; delufion.
The inequality of the match between him and
the f^btlcil of us, *9uld fuiciily appear by a fatal

the power or form of citation.
If a judge cite one to a place, to which he cinnot come with fafety, he miy freely ippejl, though
an appeal be inhibited in the letters citatorf,
Ayliffi's Parngnti,

To CITE. -v. a. [cito. Latin.]

To fummon to anfwer in a court.

I.

He held a late court, ti> which
She oft was cited by them, but appear'd not. StjK
Forthwith the cited dead,

Of all paft ages, to the general doom
Shall baften.

To enjoin

z.

AfHtoit,

3.

CrSTUS. n. jr.

[Lat.] The name of a
plant. The fame with rockrofe.
Cn.n.f, [contrafted from f/V/sfw.] An
inhabitant of a city, in an ill fenl'e ; a
pert low townfraan ; a pragmatical

upon another au-

To quote.
hci/kcr.

That paffage of P; ato, which I fire./ before. Bacon.
In banllhment he wrote thofe verfcs, which I citt
from his letter.
Dryden*

So half my Egypt were fubmerg'd, and ma.ic

In my voluptuoufnefs: your wives, your daughters.
Your matrons, and your tttaids, could not Htl up
The eifli-rn of mv luft.
Shakrjpea't.

to call

Demonftrations in fcripture may not otherwift
be dicued than by citing them out of the fcripturt.

Any receptacle or repofitory of water.
Siairf/'eari.

;

thoritatively ; to direft ; to fummon.
I fpeak to you. Sir Thurlo;
For Valentine, I need n.t ciit him to it. Shakejf.
This fad experience ciVrj mc to reveal.
And what I dictate is ft«m what 1 feel.
Prijr,

an inclofed fountain.

A cifttrn for fcal'd fnakes.

liarvcy on C'infumpti',!:!.

This power of citing, and dragging the defcjidant
was taken away.
Ayiiffc's P.^rcr^m.

But there 's no bottom, none.

KnjJlci's Hiftoiy Df the Turit,
his malice is vigilant, he refteth not to cir-

produce it in any country,

Ci'tatory. adj. [from To cite.'\ Having

Blaelmsre.

to impofe

upon ;

Thefe caules effeft a confumption endemlcl: to
this ifland : there remains a citaiiiit of fuch as may

South.
;

_

into couit,

Had no part as kindly llaid behind
In the wide cifterns of the lakes confin'd,
Did not the fprings and rivers dicnch the land,
Our globe would grow a wilderncfs of fand.

The aft of carryirvg round.
2, The ftate of being carried round.

To deceive ; to cheat

A refervoir

Ifatts.
_

Enumeration ; mention.

'Tli not the rain that waters the whole earth,
but th^t which falls into his own cificrr,, that muft

1.

Lat.]

them.
4.

ufes.

2.

jitlerhi^ry,

View the principle* in their own auriiors, and
not in the citnticni of thofe who would confute

or bag.

A receptacle of water for domefiick

i.

Hoiccl.

Latin.]

vanced.

Ci'sTBRN. n.f. [cijierna, Latin.]

fjmvalliiikns and barricadocs, reared up by fea and

Circumve'ction.

The letter-writer cannot read thefe citaticifs
without bluOiing, after the charge he hath id-

language for the coat or inclofure of a
tumour.
Ci'sTED. a.ij. [from ciff.l Inclofed in a

This gave refpite to finiih thofe ftupendous c'lrland.

tion.

:

cift,

Ayliffe^s Parti:

Quotation ; the adduftion of any paffage from another author; or of another
man's words.
3. The paffage or wards quoted ; a quota-

!

c'trcvmrualhuor M^i. cootravailation at the fiege of a

town in Liven' 3.

commenced againfl him.
2.

Stil/ingjlcet.

;

'vaUate.'\
1

The calling a perfon before the judge,

1.

See the cit-^uc I'alls
th* unpiliar'd temple noJs ;
Streets pav'd with lieroes, Tyber choak'd with goJs.

trenchifs or fortifications.

Circumvalla'tion. n.f. SJmva circum-

Drjdtn,

Cita'tion. n.f. [ci/atio, Latin.]

A

To CIRCUMVA'LLATE. 'v. a. [drcum-

Siditej.

to my charge, tiie citadtl, repair.

He made a blulhing cital of himfelf.
And chid his truant youth.
Hhaktjptare,
2. Summons; citation; call into a court.
3. Quotation ; citation.

round for the fpeftators.

pleafant valley, like one of thofe cirnifes,
wliicKin greatcities fomewhere doth give a plealant
fpedlacle of running horfes.
Sidriy,
The one was about the cirqueoi Flora, the other

A

Lat.]

Lat.]

CrRCVS. 1 n.f [circus, Latin.] An open
C i'r Qu E. j fpace or area for fpor ts, with

with regard to power or wealth.

11

Ci'tal. n.f. [from cite.'\
1. Reproof; impeachment.

Confider tne obliquity or clofenefs of thefe cirthe nearer they are, the higher may
be the inftrumcnt*
ff)Ikins.

number ir.finiteiy fupciiour, and the beil circumfliXMiand imaginable, are for the fucccflion of
Hanover.

1

The thing rolled round another.

feats

the nelts of tyranny and murderers of li-

berty.

cutTnictutioKs ;

'

To place in a particular condition, as

cilisdth,

or infertion of one part of the gut within
Arbuthnot.
the other.

;

invert with particular accidents or
adjundls.
If the afl werepthcrwife cireumfinnliaied, it might
will that freely, which now itwills freely. Bramhail.

'vallo,.

[circumvoju-

The twilling of the guts is really eithera circum-

to

A

a city.

'va/utiorty

3.

French.]

for the fake of trying the caufe of aftion

The aft of rolling round.
z. The ftate of being rolled round.

cumftanct.'\

[citat/elle,

a callle, or place of arms, in

As he came to the crown by un'uft means, ts
unjuftly he kept it; by force of ftrangerfoldiers in

Glarvi/le's Step/is.

CiRCtTMVOL-u'TlON. n.f,

Bnorr.t.

To place in particular circumftances

fortrefs ;

circumvotve it, were unphilofophical.

y« Circumsta'ntiate. V, a. [fromc/r-

2.

to put into a cir-

1.

cur.flant'wl!) .

1

;

cular motion.
Could folid orbs be accommodated to phzncmena, yet to afcribe each fphere an intelligence to

cumftantial.']
1

To roll round

Lat.]

[from tir-

od-v.

.

Ci'tadel. ». /.

Who on this bale the earth did'ft firmly found.

or by thrir
Prior's Drdic.

affjirs,

multiplied queftions about his own.

Stud^ your race, or the foil of your family will
dwindle into cat or fijuirca, or run up into wits or
madmen.
TatUr,
_
Barnard, thou art a cit, with all thy worrh ;
ButBug andD— 1, theirhonours,and to forth, Pife,

Whatever hath been thooght on in this ftate,

That could be brought to bodily aft, ere R m-.e
Stjiffj^t'tirc.
Had ctrcumvmiit,n.

Full of fmall events ; particular ; detailed.

the city, be mull avoid haTlnguing

igainft cirtmrnvntiitn ia commerce.

cafual.
Virtue 's but anguifh, when 'tis fcvcr.il.
By occaGon wak'd, and driurr.fitrnal.
Dcr.r.i.
•y

is in

Siutb.

Cj'ter. n.f. [from c:tc.'\
I.

z.

One who cites into a court,
One who quotes a quoter.
;

I

muft deli re the citer henceforward to inform us

of hii editions too.

Attirtuiy,

Cite'ss. a. / [from </>.] A city woman.
A word peculiar to Dryden.
Cits and cialjls raife a jjyful ftr.iin;
*Tis a good omen t.i begin a rei^jn.

Dryjcn.

Ci'tkern.»./. [f/V/tara, Latin.]

A kind

of harp ; a mufical inftrument.

trader.

We bring you now to fliow what different things
The cits or ciowns arc from the iourts of kings.
Jah«[o».

At what time the hcithen ha! profaned it, even
in that was it dedicated with fong) and ciibcms, and
liarps aad cymbals.

Mact.

Ci'tizen.

C I T
Ci'tizen. ti.f.
1.

[ci-vis,

A freeman of a city

;

C I V

Lat. cittyen, Fr.]
not a foreigner ;

Ci'vET. n.f. [ci'vette, Fr. zibetta, Arabic,
fignifying fant.'^ A perfume from the

not a flave.

The perfume is forniedlike a kind
of greafc, in a baj; under its tail, bsiv. ccn the anus,
and pudendum.
It is gathered from tirrc to time,

RaUigk'i h'.Jiory.

A townfmau

;

a

man of trade

gentleman.

You

An inhabitant

Trrvoux.
Cha is of a bafer birth than tar; the very uncleanly flux of a cat.
Sha>.:jfi,ir!.
Some putre/aftions and excrements do yield excellent odours ; as ci-vct and mulk, and, as I'jme
think, ambcrgrcafc.
Bjcon's N.nurai Hijicrf.

Stoief^cinc.

a dweller in any plate.
Far from noiiy R'>me fccurc- he liv^-s,
Drydeii,
And one more nrizcTt to Sibyl gives*
;

Ci'tizen. adj. [This is only in ShakeJpeare,'\ Having the qualities of a citizen ;

as

So fick I am not, yet I am not ndl
But not lb cif:x<n a wanton, as

Lemon

[citrinus, Lat.]
coloured; of a dark yellow.
The butt.n^fiy, papilio major, has

wings

A fpecies of crylUl of ati extremely pure, clear,
column, irregularly hexangular, and terminated by
an hexangular pyramid. It is from aac to four or
file inches in length. This (lone is very plentiful
in the Weft Indies. Our jewellers have learned to
call it citrine ; and cut ilones for rings out of it,
which arc millaken for topazes.
Hill on FcJpU.

Genoa is the great iiurOne fort, with a pointed

fruit, very full of juice.

fruit, is in fo great L-fteem, that the finglc fruits are

(bid at Florence for two diillings each,

.

Millir.

May the fun
Wi;h tttriin groves adorn a diftant foil.

jiJdifon.

Citron-water, n./. Aqua vita;, diltilled
with the rind of citrons.
Like afr»ii-w<j/fri matrons cheeks inflam'-. Pcbi.

Ci'tr u L. n',/. The fame with pumpion, fo
named from its yellow colour.
CI'TY. n.f. [(///, French ; ci'vitas, Lat.]

A large colleftion of houfes and inha-

1.

bitants.

Men feek fafety from number better united, and
froio walls and foitlfications, the ufe whereof is to

make the few a match for the many
orij.":

'

I

this is ii,e

:

-.

7impU.
'

ferfe, means the boufcs inclofcd

the fubutt...

2.

;>'„.,„.

[In tlie Engliflilaw.] A town corporate,
that hath a biQiop and a cathedral church.
Coiuell.

J.

The inhabitants of a certain city, as
diftinguifhed from other fubjefts.

What is the eiiy but the pecrle

?—

True, the people are the ciiy.
Stah'pcsri,
I do fufpeft 1 ha>e done fotne oflTencc,

That fcenis difgracious in the ciift eye.

Ci'ty.
1.

Sbakfjp.

adj.

Relating to the city.
His cnfoicemcnt of the city wives. Sbakcfpcart.
He, I accufe,
The ci'y ports by this haih entered. Shatrfpfare.

2.

Refembling the manners of the

citi-

zens.

Make not a city feirt of it, !o let the meat cool
<;e we can agree upon the firlt «uU

Utatiffairr.

behaviour.
Art thou thus bolden'd, man, by thy dirtrefs f

Or elfe a rude dcfpifer of good manners.
That in civility thou feeni'ft fo empty i

Shttkrfp.

Relating to any man as a member of a

community.

command.

Sfratl.

We,

Break not your promife, unlcfs it be unlawful or
impolTible; either cut of your na.ural, or out «(
your ci-vil power.
Ttty.'cr.

Not in anarchy ; not wild ; not without

3.

rule or government.
For rudeft minds with harmony were caught,
And chvil life was by the .tiufes taught. R>f:cmn:en.
4. Not foreign ; intefline.
From a ci-vil war God of his mercy defend us,
as that which is moft defpcrate of all others.
Bacon to yiUiers,
5. Not eccleilaftical ; as, the ecclefiaftical
courts are controlled by the ci-jil.

Not natural ;

6.

outlawed

is

-

at (frife.

Soon taught the fweet civilities of life.

inftruft in the arts of regular life.
Wc fend th'- graces and the mules forth

To civilize and to inftruft tiie North.

Ofiris, or Bacchus, is reported to have civilized
the Indians, and reigned amongll them fifty-two

7.

yearf.

j^rhuthnct.

C 'v L z e R

I
».
I
[ from ci'vilixe.] He that
reclaims others from a wild and favage
life ; he that teaches the rules and cuf-

1

England was very rude and barbarous ; for it is
but eiea the other day fince Ej.t;land rcw ci-ml.

.

/

toms of civility.
The civiliners /— the difturbers fay
The robbers, the corrupters of mankind

f

Spenfcr Off Ireland.

10.

heard a mermaid, on a dolphin's back,
Uttering fuch dulcet and harmonious breath,
I'hat the rude fca grew riij/ at her fong. Khalefp.

ffaller,

Mufreiis firil, then Orpheus, clvi!is:e

Mankind, and give the 'AorliJ their deities.
DtnhaK.
Amongft tbnfe who are counted the civilized
part of mankind, tliis^oiiginal law ot nature Itiil
takes place.
Lode.

though

Complaifant; civilized; gentle; well
bred ; elegant of manners; not rude
not brut.:l ; not coarfe.

Drydch.

To Ci'viLizE. I.', a. [from civil.'] To reclaim from favagencfs and brutality; to

not natural, death.

Not military ; as, the nW/ magiftrate's
authority is obftrufled by war.
8. Not criminal ; as, this is a civil procefs,
not a criminal profecution.
9. Civilized ; not barbarous.

South.

in point of civility, yield to others in our

own h'ufes.
Siiift.
3. Rule of decency ; praftice of politenefs.
Love taught him ihame ; and fliame, with love

as, a perfon banilhed or

faid to fuffer ci-vil,

in a larger fenfe, itreachcsto all

wit!.

Dcnlani's Pterrs.

Politenefs ; complaifance; elegance of

2.

is

whole nation.

It hath broad ftilf leaves, like thofcof the laurel.

The flowers confift of many leaves, exi<andcd like
1 rcfe. The piftil becomes an oblong, thick, fleffiy

Davies on Irtlimd,
Wherefoe'er her conquering eagles fled,
-Arts, learning, and cii'iiity were ipread.

He, by his great civility and affability, wrought
very much upon the people.
Clarcnd<.n.
I (hould be kept from a publication, did not,
what your civility calls a rcqueft, your greatjicii

2.

Citron-tree. n./. [from citrus, Lat.]

them,

and afi the (tttdies of
knowle-ige and humanity.
.Wfr/Ir,
Divers great monarchies have rifen from barbarifm to civility, and fallen again to ruin.

Miiiens ParaJi/e Lift.
another unity, vvh'ch .vould be
rood advantageous to our country; and that if,
your endeavour after a eivU, a political union in the

But there

that, no nat;on_exceUeth

in all goodly converfation,

Of facrifice.

generally free from Haws and
It is ever found in a long and fler.der

fine texture,

trees.

unto that cimtiiy,

politic.il

not permit their commonweal to be governed by
any other laws than his own.
Hmkn.
Part fuch as apj>crta:ii
To «r//juftice J part, reijg ous rites

Ci'trine. n.f. [from citrinus, Latin.]

fery for thefe

Tl;e EngUfli were at firft as ftout and warlike a
people as ever the Iri(h ; and jet ate now brought

relating to the city or gcvcrnment.
God gave tliemhwsof r™;/ regimen, and would

Gr.Tv.

blcmilhes.

Latin] Relating

[f/'D/V*/,

[dvilis, Lat.]
Relating to the community;

By citrint urine of a thicker confiftcnce, the faltncfs of [.iiicgm is known.
Flyir en ttc Humeuri,

and

ad of juftice, or judgment, which renders a criminal procefs civil ; which is

to civil honours or pradices ; not military.

1.

painted with citiiiu and black, both in long ilreaks

and fjicts.

Stvift.

Civilisa'tion. «./ [from f/ii//.] A law,

CYWIL. adj.
its

ancient civilians, and writers upon govern-

to

With equal rays immortal Tnlly (hone :
Behind, Rome's j^enius waits with civick crowns,
And the great fatirer of his dountry owns. Pete.

^•IjA-Jff.ire.

Ci'trine. aiij.

all

ment.

performed by turning an information
into an inquell, or the contrary. Harris.
Civi'litv. n.f. [from civil.']
1. Freedom from barbarity; the ftate of
being civilized.

Ci'viCK. adjr.

cowardice, meannefs.

To fcenri to die ere fick.

Baccn'i j^dvice to ViHicrt,

and abounds in proportion as tiie animal is fed.

When he rpeakt not like a ciimn,
find him like a foldier,

law is tieir guide, Aould not be

A depending kingdom is a term ofartunknowa

Brafil, Guinea.

not a

;

tlic civil

difcountenanced nor difcouragerf..

The ci-vct, or (ivd cat, is a little animal not
unlike our cat.
It is a native of tlie Indies, Peru

All inhabitants within thefe walls are not pro-

3.

The profelTors of that law, cnilej ci-.'iUjr.s, becaufc

civet-cat.

perly cUiictns, but only fuch as are called freemen.

2.

C I V

!

Philips' s Btilm,

Ci'viLi.Y. adv. [from civil.]
In a

1.

1

manner relating to government,

ti'.e rights or charafter of a member of a community ; not naturally.

or to

He was r/vi/andwell-natuied, never rcfufiiig 10
teath another.
Dry den 1 DufnJ'r.oy.

common law; for that a multitude fliould, with-

And fall tliefc faylngs from ti.at gentle ton^uV,

out harmony, concur in the doing of one thing

Where rii)i/fpeerh and loft perfualion hung ? Prior.
1 1 . Grave ; fober ; not gay or (hewy.
Thus (light Lift Ice me in tliy pale career.

(for this is civilly to live), or fliould manage com-

Till civil fuitcd

12. Relating

Men that are civil lead their live^ after one

munity ot life. It 15 not poflible.
2.

That accufation, which is publick, is either
the private fatisfatHon of
the pirry injured ; or cllc criminally, that is, fir
fome publitk punifliinenr.
^yliffe,

morn appear.
MJion's Poems.
ancient confular or

civilly commenced for

to the

imperial government ; as, ciaiH law.

No woman had it, but a rii/iV doitor. Shateff.
Civi'lian. n.f. [dvilis, Lat.] "One that
profeflbs the knowledge of the old Ro-

man law, and of general equity.

Hooker,

Not criminally.

3.

Politely; complaifantly; gently; without rudenefs ; without brutality.
1 will deal a-T/;/fy with his poem
nothing ill is
>

:

to be fpokcn of tiie 'lead. Drydcn's Pref, to his Fab.

S f *

J

would

I

I would
civillj ;

He thought tlicm folks that loft tlleir way,
And aflc'd them civil'y to ftay.
Pi'itr,
4. Without gay or gaudy colours.
The chambers were nandf )mc and cheerful, and
Bacon*i Nnv jii!amtis>

furniifaed civilly*

[perhaps from incifa, Lat.
Ihaped or cut to a certain magnitude.]
The quantity of any thing, with regard
It.

/.

to its external form : often written yfaif.
If no motion can alter bodies, that is, reduce
them to fome other cixi or figure, then there is
none of itfelf to give them the ciii and figure
which they haVe.
Crew's Cttfmohgij.

Clack. ». /

[^/a/^^M, Germ, to rattle,

to make a noife.]

Any thing that makes a lafting and im-

1.

portunate noife: generally ufed in contempt for the tongue.
But Aili bis tongue ran on,

And with its evcrlafling clack
IJuctilrm.
Set all men's ears upon the rack.
Fancy flows in, and mufe flics high ;
Pri'.r,
He knows not when my clack will lie.

The Clack of a Mill. A bell that rings
when more corn is required to be put in.

2.

Says John, jufl at the hopper will 1 ftand.
And mark the ilack bjw juftly it will found.
Bcitcrleti •

To make a chinking noife.
To let the tongue run.

1

To Clack, -u. a. As to clack luool, is to
cut off the (heep's mark, which makes
it

to

figns of a gangrene and approaching death.

who hath already revived fevetal claiits upon him >

ylrbu'hnot 5JI XiJet,

Stvift

Cla'morous. adj. [{rom clamour.] Voci-

A title to any privilege or poiTeflion in

z.

the hands of another.
Either there muft have b.-en but one fovereign
over them all, or elfe every father of a family had
been as good a prince, and had as goud a claim to
Ltckt.
royaltj', as thefe.
3.

A demand of any thing that is in the porteflion
of another, or at the leaft out of his own j as claim
Orwell.
by charter, c'airr. by defcent.

4.

The

ferous ; noify ; turbulent ; loud.
It is no fufficient argument to fay, that, in urging thefe ccre-Tionics, none are fo clamorous as paand they whom papifts fuhorn.
Honker.
He kifs'd her lips
With fuch a etamorcus finack, that at the parting

pitls,

All the church echo'd.

In law.

phrafes

are

commonly

make

to

claim, or to lay claim.
The king of Pruflia lays in his claim for NeufChatel, as he did for the principality of Orange.
yijjifin on J.'aly.
If God, by pofitive grant, gave dominion to any

God ordained.

weigh lefs, and fo yield the lefs

Coiuell.
cuHom to the king.
Clad. part. pret. [This participle, which
IS now referred to clothe, feems original-

ly to have belonged to clodcn, or fome
fuch word, like kleeden, Dutch.] Cloth-

ed ; inverted ; garbed.

The goats ran from the mountains, and the herds
Were ftrangely clem'roHS in the frighted fields.
Shakejpeare.

With the eltmaroids report of war
Thus will I drown your exclamations. Slakcfpeare.
Then vaiious elements ag^iinft thcc join'd.
In one more various animal combin'd.
And fram'd the clamorous race of bufy human kind.
Po(,e.

A pamphlet that will fettle the wavering, i'n-

Locke.

ftru£i the ignorant, and inflame }he clamenus.

Clai'mable. adj. [from claim.] That
Stuift.
which may be demanded as due.
CLA'MOUR.
n. f [clamor, Latin.]
Clai'mant. n.f. [from claim.] He that
demands any thing, as unjuftly detained
by another.

Outcry; noife; exclamation; vocife-

1.

ration.

Revoke thy doom.
Or whilft I can vent clamour from my throat,

Clai'mer. ». / [from f/<»»»>.] He that
makes a demand he that requires any

I'll tell

«. /.

Sec

To crammed maws a fpract new ftomach brings.

Clare-

To Cla';4ber. t. ». [probably corrupted
from climh ; as climber, clamber.] To
climb with difficulty, as with both hands
and feet.
The kitchen malkin pins

thee, thou do'll evil.

Shakejfeare.

The people giew then exorbitant In their cla-

thing, as unjuftly withheld from him.

mturi for juftice.

AT/jg Charles.

The maid
Shall weep the fury of my love decay'J

;

And weeping follow me, as thou do'ft now.
With idle clamours of a broken vow.

Prhr,

It is ufed fonietimes, but lefs fitly,

2.

of

inanimate things.
Here the loud Arno's boift'rotts clamours ceafe

That with fubmiflive murmurs glides in peace.

Her richeft lockram 'bout her reechy neck,
Shakejpeare.
Clami'rirg the walls to eye him.
When you hear the drum,
Clamber not you up to the caferaents then. Shak,
The men there do, not without fome difficulty,
clambir up the acclivities, dragging their kinc with

7'oCla'mour. v. n. [from the noun.]
to exclaim ; to vo1. To make outcries

Ray.

The obfcurc bird clamour'd the live-long night.

them.

So oft in fealis with coftly changes clad.

Shekrjfeare.

At my birth

man, primogeniture can lay no claim to it, unlefs

Clair-obscure.
obscure.

7a Clack, v. n. [from the noun.]

and at laft a total celTation of pain, art

palcnefs,

leaft,

;

'

2.

The continuance of the fever, ilammy fweats,

Will be not, therefore, of iheiwo evils chofethe
by fubmitting to a mailer who hath nb immediate claim upon him, rather than to another

hive had Almeria and Ofaiyn parted

a» if it wju not proper for lovers to do fo.
Collitr cf ihe Stagt.

CizE.

C L A

C L A

C L A

Mdifin.

;

ciferate ; to roar in turbulence.

clamber over fo many
rocks, and to tread upon the brink of fo many
precipices, that they were very often in danger of

They were

forced

to

Shakejpeare,

Let them not come in multitudes, or in a tribunitious

manner

Addijuns Freeholder.

for that is to clamour counfels,
not to infor.-n them_.
Bacon's Effhys.

Kirgs.

To CLAMM. v. a. [in fome provinces, to

2. In Shakeffeare'it feems to mean, active-

The flow'ry dale of Sibma, clad with vine. Millai.

cleam ; from clasmian, Saxon, to glue together.]
To clog with any glutinous

Sidnty.

He hath rWhimfcIf with a new garment.
I

their lives.

Beyond
Their prayers clad

With inccnfe, where the golden altar fum'd
Millcn.
Ky their great intcrcelTor.
But virtue too, as well as vice, is clad
In flelh and biood.
Waller.
To her the weeping hcav'ns become fercne
For her the ground iiclad in cheerful green. Dryd.
The courtiers were all moll magailiccntly clad,

Swift.

To CLAIM,

-v.

[clamer, French.]

a.

demand of right

;

To

to require authorita-

Shakejpeare.

matter.

A fwarro of wafps got into a honey-pot, and Clamp, n.f. [clamp, French.]

there they cloyed and clammed themfelves till there
VEJirarre.
was no getting out again.
The fprigs were all daubed with lime, and the

L'Eflrav^e.

birds clammed and taken.

A piece of wood joined to another, as

an addition of ftrength.
2. A quantity of bricks.

To burn a clemp of bricks of fixteen thoufand,
they allow k\cn ton of coals.
Mortimer's Hujb.

Cla'mminess. n.f. [irom clammy.] Vifcofity ; vifcidity ; tenacity ; ropinefs.
grcafy pipkin will fpoil the clarnminrfs of the

A

Ifdoxan.

glue.

To Clamp. 1;. a. [from the noun.]
When a piece of board is fitted with the grain to

Cla'mmy. adj. [from clamm.] Vifcous

the end of another piece of board crcfs the grain,
the firft board is clarr.prd. Thus the end's of tables

glutinous ; tenacious ; adhefive ; ropy.

are commonly damped to preferve them from warp«

If only one man hath a divine right to obedience, no body can claim that obedience but he that
can (hew his right.
Lickt.We muft know how the firft ruler, from whom
any one claims, came by his authority, before we
can know who has a right to fuccced him in it.
Locke,
Poets have andoubted right to claim.
If not tlie grcatcft, the moll Ulling name, dttgreve.

Bodies ^/iiKny and cleaving, have an appetite, at
once, to follow another body, and to hold to themBaien.
felves.
Neither the brain nor fpirits can conferve motion ; the form"r is of fuch a clammy confidence,
it can no more retain it than a quagmire.

A demand of any thing, as due.
You, in the right of laJy Blanch your wife,
Sbakrfptare.

Forfworn thyfelf

!

nal ;

The traitor's odious name

I isH. leiuro, and tbca difprorc thy clttim, Dryden.

[probably of Scottilh origiklaan, in the Highlands, fignifi;s

children. ]
J

.

A family

There is an unftuous clammy vapour that arifes
from the ftum of grapes, when they lie maftied together in the vat, which puts out a light when dipped into it,

/Udijtit tnjialj-

a race.

,

Of each his faction, in their feveral clans.
Swarm populous, unnumber'd.

Ikfihon.

Milton was the poetical fon of Spenfcr, and Mr.
Waller of Fairfax j for we have our lineal dcfcents
and clans as well as other families.
Dryden.

Joyful thou'lt fee

The clammy fitface all o'er-ftrown with tribes
Of greedy infefls.
Philifs.

;

'I'hey around the flag

Aghaft he wak'd, and flatting from his bed.
Cold fwcat, in clammy drops, hii limbs o'erfpreid.
Drydeii.

May then make all the rAt/xi that Arthur did.

Moxon's Mechanical Excrcifes,

ing.

Clan. n. f.

Clarville's Scefjis.

Claim, n.f. [from the verb.]
I.

ly, to flop from noife.
Clamour your tongues, and not a word more.

but to exa.t\ as due.

tively ; not to beg or accept as favour,
'

:

2.

A body or fcdl of perfons, in a fenfc of
contempt,
Partridge and the reft of his clan may hoot me
for a cheat, if I fail in any fingle particular. Stvift.

Cla'ncvlar.

C L A

C L A
CtA'NCULAR. fl<^'. [claiKulariiet, Latin.]

wings.
to avoid the blow.

Secret ;

hidden ;

private :

an

in

Clande'stinely. adv. ]Jxom dandefiine.'\

Sir, letmcfeeyourworicsand you no more.

Secretly; privately; in private;

in fecret.
There have been two printed papers clanitfiirtly
fpread about, whereof no man is able to trace the
original.

Siv'ift.

CLANG, n. /, {clangor, Lat.] A Iharp,
noife.
With fuch a horrid clang
As on mount Sinai rang.
While the red 6re aad fmould'ring clouds outbreak.
Milton.
An Ifland f.ilt and bare
The haunt of feals and ores, and fca-mews clang.

What cltngs were heard in German (kies afar.
Of arms and armies rulhing to the war! Drydcn.
Guns, and trumpets clongt and folcmn found

Of drunis, o'ercamc tbcir groans.
PkiDps.
To Clang, -v. n. \clango, Lat.l To clatter ; to make a loud Ihrill noife.

Have I not in a pitched battle heard
Loud 'larums, neighing ftceds, an4 trumpets chwg ?
Bhakejpiarc.

The Libyans, clad io armour, lead
-fbc dance; and tiatigmg fwords and fliields they
beat.

Priir.

Cr, a'ngour. n.f. [clangor, Lat.]

Aloud

ihrill found.
in ddth he cried.
Like to a difmal clangour heard fiom far,
Warwick, rcie:;gc my death.
Stakeffiare.
With joy tar'y vir.w the waving enfigns fly,
And hejr the trutf cts clan^nar pierce tiie fky.
Dryilcn.

Cla'ngoui. adj. [itom clang.] Making
a clang.

We do not obferve the cranes, and birds of long
necks, have any mulical, but harlh and cljngout
throats.
Brc-wn.

Clank, n.f. [from clang."] Aloud, (hrilf,
fharp noife,

made by

hard and for'

"

They were

^

To CLAP. -v. a

-

melodious clank of

• *'•

!>pcSlator.

Mm

(hall claf their bands at him, and &ail hi^ls

iflg,

claffing

his Gdei,

aad walking

before his

fl>f>P '

Dryden.

_

He crowing i!af,p'ii his wingt, th' appointed call

T» chuck bis wivtJ together in the hall.
Dryden'i Fablit.

Give the door fuch
rattle in it.

2.

3.

There Ihall be horrible claps of thunder, and
liakrujill on Providence.

4.

The clap it paft, and now the ikies are clear.
Dryden s fuv,
An aft of applaufe.
The ai3ors, in the inidft of an innocent old
play, are often ftartled in the midft of unexpefted
claps or hiffes,

Shakefpeare.

Addifon.

5.

A fudden or unexpefted misfortune.

6.

Obfolete.
A venereal infeftion. [from clapolr, Pr.]
Time, that at laft matures a claf to pox.
Pope,

[With falconers.] The nether part of
the beak of a hawk,

7.

He was no fconer entered into the town, but a
ftambling foldierr/a/r hold of his bridle, which he
thought was in a begging or in a drunken fafliiofi.

Cla'pper, ti.f. [from clap.]
1. One who claps with his hands ; an ap-

Woiton'i Life cf Buck.

So much from the reft of Jiis countrymen, and
indeed from his whole fpecies, that his fiicnds
would have clapped him into bedlam, and have
begg-d his eftate.
SjedMor.

plauder.

The tongue of a bell.

2.

He hath a h^art as found as a bell, and his
tongue is the clapper; for what his heart thinks,
his tongue fpcaks.
Shakefpeare.
I f<w a yojn^ lady fall down the other day,
and

Have you obfcrv'd a fitting hare,
and fearful of the ftorm
Prior.

/he

We will uke our remedy at law, and c/ap an

much rcfeniblcd an overturned bell without a
Addifoa.

cl''J>fi'r.

aflion upon you for old dcbu.

3

Ariuitti'j'i Uiftory of John Bull.

To celebrate or praife by clapping the
I

To infefl with a venereal poijfon.

They are clapp.-rctaiiing one another, I'll look
">•

If the patient hath been dapt, it will be the more

him the fecond time, and worfe

mjemM.

Let men and manners ev'ry di(h adapt;
Who'd force bis p ff per wbcic his gucAs are clapt f
King.

Shakefpeare.

They've always been at daggers-drawing.

And one another !-/a//fr.7n«i»^.

[See

the noun.]

A piece of wood

Ct. APPttL of a Mill.
ftiaking the hopper.

To Cla'pi'ercl AW. -v. a. [from clap and
cla-Tv.] To tongurbeat ; to fcold.

Dedication to Dryden's Spanijh Friar.

cure

An explofion of thunder.
flalhes of lightning, voices and earthquakes.

We were dead afleep.

tJic third.

Smft.

A fudden or unexpeiled aft or motion.

It is monftrous to me, that the fouth-fea fliould
pay half their debts at one clap.
Sivift'i Lelters.

motion, or unexpededly.

difficult to

you go out, as
and make every tiling

a clap as

will fliake the whole room,

And, how we know not, all c'apt under hatches,

have often heard the ftitioner wilhing for
thoi'e hands to take uK his melancholy bargain,
which dipped it; performance on die ftagc.

him out of his place.
y»i.
Have you never fecn a citixen, in a cold marn-

Clap. n.f. [from the verb.]
1
A loud nolle made by fudden collifion.

having no bias yet ctapptd on to miflead them.

ShakcJ/xare.

together in ap-

All the beft men are ours; for 'tis ill hap
^
If they hold, when tlieir ladies bid 'em !:/«/'.
Shah.

Addfn.
By having their minds yet in their perfe£l freedom and indifferency, they purfue trutii the better,

fo as to make a noife by the collifion.

Clapt to their gates.

Shakefpeare.

.'

plaufe.

the Hague.

hands ; to applaud.

Following the fliers.

arc hoarfe

To ftrike the hands

3.

m

To ftrike together with a quick motion,
With them he enters; who, upon the fudden,

Come, a fong.~—
—Shall we clap into 't roundly, without faying wn

It would be as abfurd as to fay, he clapped fpurs
to his horfe at St. James's, and galloped away to

Of horns and hounds, cUp back her ear ?

•

on any thing.

7aylir's Living Hcly.

the filhes will contend to get uppermoft in the
water.
Ray
the Creation.

[clappan. Sax. klapptn,

Dutch.]
I.

Dryden,

To enter with alacrity and brilknefs up

2.

Razor-makers generally clap a fnjall bar of Venice fteel between two fmall birs of Flemilb ftecl.
«
Muxon'i Mectankal Excrcif;!.
The man clapt his fingers one day to his mouth,
and blew upon them.
LlEJlrange.
His (hield thrown by, to mitigate the fmart,
He clapp''d his hand upon the wounded part. Dryd.
If you leave fome I'pace empty for the air, then
cUp your hand upon the mouth of the vcfTel, and

Lift'niiig,

ies.
:

lTl3rr'>w-bjnc ana

ths collifion cf

Dryden,

A whirlwind rofe, that with a violent blaft
Sliook all the dome : the doors around me clapt.

we dap fm, or folly, or in-

Brmity into his account.

which hath appeared lovely.
AdJipn's Speilater.
Let all her ways be unconfin'd.
And clap your padlock on her mind. Prior.
Socrates or Alexander might have a fool's coat
elapt upon them, and perhaps neither wifdoni
nor
majeily would fccurc them from a Oieer.
IVatts on the Mind.
To do any thing with a fudden hafty
.

Pritir.

To bar my going back.

layUr,

The fierce Curetes trod tumultuous
Their myftic dailce, and clang'd their founding
arms;

Thy infant cries.

Every door flew op-ni

T' admit my entrance ; and then clapt behind me.

If a man be highly commended, we think him
fufficicntly Icflened, if

-v. n.

To move nimbly with a noife.

1.

made her hold faft, and

Locke.
I have obfcrved a certain cheerfulnefs in as bad
a fyftem of features as ever was clapped together,

Induftrious with the warlilce din t« quell

To Clap.

:

To Clang, -v. a. To (Irike together with
a noife.

_

Being prefented to the emperor for his admira..
he was known, and the prince clapt
him up as his inveiglcr,
Sandys,
ble beauty,

Carcw.
This pink is one of Cupid's cairiers c/ap on
more fails; purfue.
Shakifpare.
Smooth temptations, like the fun, makean.aiden lay by her veil and robe; which pcrfecution,
clap clofe about her.

To imprifon with little

formality or delay.

into lakes.

like the northern wind,

To Clap up.

J.

the idea of fomething hafty, unexpefted,
or fudden.
They c/ap mouth to mouth, wing to wing, and
leg to leg ; and fo, after a fwxet finging, fjll down

fiirill

Milton.

HotveVs Vocal Forejl,

Pope.

To add one thing to another, implying

2.

Tho' nitrous tempelts, and cltrMJiini death,

A

peace may be clapped up with that fuddennefs,
that the forces, wjiich are now in itiotion, may
unexpedledly fall upon his fkirts.

Addifon.
Glad of a quarrel, ftraight 1 clap the door.

ill

Fill'd the deep caves and numerous vaults beneath,

No longer than we welt could waih our hands,
To clap this royal bargain up of peace.
Sbakefp»
Was ever match clapt up fo fuddenly ? Shahfp,

Locke on Educathn.

In flowVy wreathes the royal virgin dieft
His bending horns, and kindly chpt his bread,

CL ANDE'STINE.ff«7. [<-/«Wc/?/w, Lat.]

To complete fuddenly,

without much precaution.

Drydm.

He had juft time to get in and clap ti the door,

LeE us -A-ithdraw all lupplies from our hjfts, and
not by any fecrec rcfetved ^S^iXion give cheai clancii'ar aids to maintain ^beir rebeiiion*
Decay cfPsety.

7o Clap up.

6.

And round him the pleas'd audience clap thtir

Clandeillne ; fecret ; private ; concealed ; obfcure ; hidden.

fenfe.

C L A

Each port of the air her glary Cng',

Uudibrai.

CLA'RENcEux.or Cla'rbncievx. n.f.
The fecond king at arms fo named
:

from tlie ducliy oS^Jaretice.

Clare-obscure,
.

tf,

f,

[from clarus,
Light and

bright, and obfcunu, Lat.]
fhadc in painting,

M

C L A

C L A

A& mafterc in the ehrc-tljcmi
With various light jour tye alluiej

Thofc fcw ttiat fliouH happen to elajb, Ihight

C L A

rebound after the collilion.

BenlUy.

A flaming yfllow here they fpreidi

How many candles may fend out their light,

Draw ofF in blue, or charge in red ;

upon one another! which argues
the fmalloeCi of the parts of light, and the latgenefs of the interfticei between particles of air and
other bodies._
.
Cieyirf

Your fight upon the whale is fix'd.

Prrw.

Cla'ret. «./. [Jairet, Ft.] French wine,

The tendtels or clafpert of plants art given only
to fuch fpeeies at have weak and infirm (talks.

Ray on the Crep'unu

Cla'spknife. «./ [from f^a/^ and )fff/^.]

direftion.

Red and white wine are in a trice confoundcJ
into (hrttm

port.

To aft with oppofite power, or contrary

2.

of a. clear pale red colour.

A knife which folds into the handle.

Ncitlierwas thete any queen-mother who might

Soy!^»

clafi with his counfellors for authority.

The claret fmooth, red as the lips we prcfs

Bacon.

CL.ASS.

Thofe that are not convinced what help this i'

In fparlcling fancyj while wc drain the bowl.

to mafjiftracy, would find it, if they fljould chance
to
South.

ThonJ'tr.

Cla'ricord. h./. [from a'arus and chcr-

;

Srgrais has diftinguilhed the readers of poetry,

and
Cbambirs.

It has forty-nine or fifty keys,

.iccordi.ng to their capacity of judging,

to oppofe.

fpoilsall.

leHbn at the fchool.

VEflrange.

yet every time that clajh'wg metaphors are
together, this fault is committed.

Tc Clash, f. a.

impurities.
Liquors are, many of them, at tbs firft, thick
and troubled; as mulVe, and wort: to know the
means of accelerating clarificauim> we mud know
the caufc$ of f/jri^fd/iojr.
Bactn.

Wc (hall be feized away from this lower clafs
in the fchool of knowledge, and our converfation

put

(hall be with angels and illuminated fpirits.

Spiciaisr.

fVattt c» the Mind.

To ftrike one thing a-

gainft another, fo as to produce a noife.

A fet of beings or things

3.

And with a fullcn found, and feeble crj-.

parate from feculencies or impurities.

The clajh of arms and voice of .men we hear.

The apothecaries claiify their fyrups by whites

Denbam.

of eggs, beaten with the juices which they would
tlarify \ which whites of eggs gather all the dregs
and grolTer parts of the juice to them; and afterj
the fyrup being fet on the fire, the whites of eggs
Bac^n,
thenifelvcs harden, and arc taken forth.

He nobly feia'd thee In the dire alarm;
Of war and flauViter, and the clajh of arms.

is

In the very next line he reconciles the fatliers
and fcripture, and (hews there is no r/.i/o betwixt
them.
yttiaiiury.

motions of right reafon : it met the dictates of a
South.
ctarifial undeHlanding half way.

CLASP, n.f [chifpc'DatQh.]

The Chriftian religion Is tlje only means that
God has fanOitied, to fet fallen man upon his k-gs

to

parchment cover.

Bacon's mTnys.

A

To Clasp,

Spanilh ; from
trumpet ; a wind

Arbuthnot and Pope.

--v.

a.

[from the noun.]

Sermons ,ire the keys of the kingdom of heaven,
and do open tiie fcriptures; which being but read,
remain, in comparifon, dill clajped.
Hooker.

Wi'.h (hams, and trumpets, and with darknt fweet
And all the way thejoyous people fings.
Speiifir.
'
Then ftrait commands, that at the warlike found
Of trumpets loud, and clancnt, be uprcarM

There Caxton (lept, witii Wynkln at his iidc;

,

Milton' t ParaM/e LcJI.

Let fuller notes th' applauding wotUi amaze.
Pope*

And the loud ctaricn labour in your praifc.

Cla'rity. n.f. [clarte, French; claritas,

2.

an

Cla'rv. »./. [herminium, Lat.] An herb.
Plants that have ciicled leaves du all abound with
The weakelt kind of curling is roughmoilture.
nefs ; as in clary and burr.

Tc CLASH,

-v. n.

I.

Of uati, we heard.

Detibam.

The clafu-ks of an age that heard of none. Pope.

CLJ'SSIS. n.f [Latin.] Order; fort;
body.

He had declared his opinion of that f/<>^j of

4.

To CLA'TTER. v. n. [clarpunje, a rattle,

1.

Saxon.]

To make a noife by. knocking two fo-

clafp.

Had rous'd the neighing .leeds to fcour the fields.
While the fierce riders clatter" don their fiiiclds.

Now the fprightly trumpet from afar

Bacon.

To embrace.
Thou art a flave, whom fortune's tender arm
With favour never chfpt, but bred a dog.

Shakeff,

Thy fuppiiant
I beg,

and Hafp thy knees.

Milton's Par. Loft.

He ftoop'd below

Now, now heclafps her to his panting breaft;

Now he devours her with his eager eyes.

to ftrike one againll another.
Three tiire*, as of the e.'ajhing found

,^n author of the firlt rank : ufuaJly taken for
ancient authors.

norous bodies frequently together.

Dry den.

;

A'-hutbnot on Coint.

[iiijicus, Lat.]

Occafion turneth the handle of the bottle fitft to
be received ; and after the belly,
which is hard to
'

Dut. to make

To make a noife by mutual coUifion

fubjec>.

Clarendon.

The flying fpear, and ihun'd the promis'd blow;
Then creeping, claj'p'd the hero's knees, and pray'd.

a noife.l

From this ftanJard the value of the Roman
weights and coins are deduced : in the fettling
of which I have foIloATd Mr. Greaves, who
may be juftly reckoned a clajftcal author on this

Pirca

Bacon i Natural lliji.

[iletfea,

FJton CH the ClaJJickt.

Of the fir ft order or rank.

2.

men, and did all he could to binder their growth.

The clajping Ivy 'a here to ciimb. Milicn's Par, Loft.
3. To hold with the hands extended ; to
indole between the hand.s.

Ufl>

ierftanding which itfelf can only comprehend.
Sir Walter Raleigh.
Man was not only deceivable in his integrity,
but the angels of light in all their clarity*
Brtiun's f^ulgar Errcurs.

leth, and from them it is derived.

To catch and hold by twining,

,

;

Poetick fields encompafs me around,
And ftiil I feem to tread on clajjick ground. AJdif.
With them the genius of clajpck learning dweU

Pope.

Latin.] Brightnefs ; fplendour.

A light by abundant clarity invifible

to literature,

One cl.-fp'd \n wood, and one in ftrong cowhide.

.

{^^"f'^"'' Latin.]

l^'^j'

Relating to antique authors; relating

Cla'ssick, n.f.

To Ihut with a clafp.

1.

inArument of war.
And after to his palace he them brings,

The mighty flandard.

^icK.
C la's SI

as .1

Your fair daughter,
Tranfportcd with no worfe nor better guard.
But with a knave of hire, a gondjlier,
To the grnfs chfpi of a lafcivious Moor. Sbahefp.

[clarin,

clarus, loud, Lat.]

;

An embrace, in contempt.

2.

thoughts, his wits and underftanding di clarfy
and break up in the difcourfing with another; he
marfhallcth his thoughts more orderly, he feeth
how they look when they are turned into words.

n. f.

Cla'ssical.

bool^ or garment.
The fcurpion's claws here grafp a wide extent,
And here the crab's in Icflcr clajpi are bent. Md':fHe took me afide, cpening' the claffi of the

Whofoever hath his mind fraught with many

Ci.a'riok.

I confidered that, by the clajjinr and methodizing fuch paffages, I might inftrua the reader.
Arhulbnot en Coint,

1.

A hook to hold any thing clofe

1

again, to clarify his reafon, and to reflify his will.
Soutb,

To clear up;

different ranks.

DenhuK.

rare.

«.

Pofc.

Debate, like fparks from flint's coUifion, fprings.

The will was then duflile and pliant to all the

To Cla'rify. 1/.
grow bright.

a. [from the noun.]
To
range according to fome Hated method
of diftribution ; to range according to

To Class. 1/.

Oppofition; contradicUon.
Then from the clajhet between popes and kings,

2.

To brighten; to illuminate. This fenfe

2.

Addijcn's Freeholder.

Whate'er of mongrel, no one clafs admits
A wit with dunces, and a dunce with wits. Pope,

A noify colli<ion of two bodies.

1.

number

make a very cjnfiderable clajs of men.

Diydcn.

To purify or clear any liquor; to fe- Clash, n. f. [from the verb.]

1.

a

Among this herd of politicians, any one fet

Half funk, and half pronounc'd the word of victor)-.

;

ranged in diftribution, under fome common denomination.

The nodding ftatue clajh'd b\s arms.

To CLA'RIFY. V. a. [clarifier, French.]

Dryden.

A number of boys learning the /ame

2.

The afafurdity in tliif inllance is obvious ; and

Clarifica'tjon. n. /. [ftova clarify.]
The adl of making any thing clear from

into three

clajjis.

Wherever there are men, there will be clafiiing
fome time or other; and a knock, or a conteii,

A mulical inftruineiit in form of a fpinette, but

[from clajjis, Latin.]

n.f.

A rank or order of perfons.

1

"'V*-

3. To contradifl

i/a, Latin.]

fevcoty ilrings.

which they cling to other things for fup-

vii\.\\a\ix ihJUngi

Yet fiO:n thefe colours, oddly mixM,

more ancient.

Cla'sper. n.f [from clafp,] The ten.
drils or threads of creeping plants, by

,

Smith.

5. To inclofe.

To utter a noife by being ftrnck together.
Ail that night was heard an unwonted clattering
of weapons, and of men running to and fro.
Knolles's Hiftory.

Down funk the monfter-bulk, and prefs'd the
ground ;
His arms and clattering

fliield

found.

Their

Boys, with women's voices.

clattering

arms with

on the vaft body
Dryden.
tljc

fierce

fhocks

refound

Strive to fpcak big, and clafp their female joints

In ftiif uiiweildy arms againft tJiy crown,

DryJen.
2.

Stakefp.

Hclmeti and broken launces fjieaJ the ground.
Cranxille,

3.

To

C L A

tiauft or fentence

of fcripture be in tvery fuch I 2.
adtion fet before men's eyes to waj-rant it.
ilockcr.

Here is a g.eat deal of good matter
Left for lack of telling

An article, or particular ftipulation.

2.

;

N.iw, fiker, I fee thou do'ft but clatter;

Herm may come of melling.

I

only with an oaken ftaffwill meet thee.

That thou oft (halt wifli thyfelf at Gath.

Milun.

In fomc monaftcrics the fcverity of the clanjure
is hard to be born.
GcJda.

Cla'tter. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. A rattling noife made by the frequent

What's jufticc to a man, or laws.
That never com-s within their claivi f
Blunts their keen

Swift,

and con-

eijge,

clawi.

Hudsbrai.

the nature of clay; containing particles
of clay.
Small beer proves an unwholefome drink ; perhaps, by being brewed wfth a tliick, muddi/h, aiii
elayipi water, whicli the brewers covet.

and grinds their harpy
Gerlh.

Sometimes a hand, in contempt.
To Claw. v. a. [clapan, Saxon.]

Shakcffeate.

n.f. [clay and marl.]
whitiih, fmooth, chalky clay.

Lo;k, if the nithei'd elder hath not his poll
clatu'd like a parrot.
Sbakeffcare.

Ben Jeifim.

.im afraid we (hall not cafily

1

cla-j)

off that

Staift.

The jumbling particles of matter
In chaos make not fuch a clatter,

South.

To tear or fcratch in general.

3.

ticymarl refcmbles clay, and is near a-kin fo
b:it is more fat, and fometimes mixed with
chjik-ftoncs.
Mortimer's Hujhandry.

CLEAN, adj. [glan, Wel(h
1.

And heathen ftripes, by their example,

Stvift.

Hudibras.

Tiiey for their own opinions (land faft,

Only to have them cla-u'd and canvaft.

fet with knobs.

Wmdviard on Fcfpls.

I

Cla'udbnt. aJj, [cUuitens, Lat.] Shut-

,.

muft laugh whcivl am merry, and clfitf no

1

man in his humour.
To flatter: an obfoiete

Clawback.
To CLA'UDICATE. -v. n. \claudko, La- 6. To C LAV/ off, or away.
tin.] To halt; to limp.
rail at.
Dia.
ting; inclofing; confining.

DiJI.

the platter, but within they are full of cxtoi tion
and exccfs.
Mat:heiu.
He that hath clean hand-; and a pure heart. Ff.il.

Sbaicfpearr.

'

J.

fenfe. '

See

>

Create in me a clean lieirt, O God
Pfalms,
Free from moral impurity ; chafte ; innocent ; guiltlefs.
3. Elegant; neat ; not unwieldy ; not encumbered with ^ny thing ufclefs or dif!

To fcold ; to

z.

Ynu thank the place where you found money
Claudica'tion, n.f. [fromf/aad/Va/c]
but
jade Fortune is to \k clatvid atvay for't, if
The aft or habit of halting.
Dia.
you ihould lofe it.
proportioned.
L'Eflrange.
Clave, [the preterite of dea-ve.l See
The timber and wood are in fome trees more
Cla'wback. n.f. [from ela^ and i.icL]
Cleave.
clctin, in fome more knotty.
Bacon's Natural Hijl,
A flatterer a fycophant a whecdler.
Cla'vellates. adj. {clo'vellatut, low
Yet thy waift
ftraight and clean
The pope's clanrbucki.
Jemcl.
Latin.] Made with burnt tartar: a
As Cupid's (h.ift, or Hermes' rod.
Waller.
Cla'wed. adj. [from daixi.] Furnilhcd or 4. Not foul with any
chymical terra.
t'lic

;

;

is

Chambers.

Air, traiifmittcd through etavellated
an exhaufted receiver, \aSa weight

aflies

»

it

paffes

is

through them.

ArimbrM.
Cla'ver. n.f. [claepeji pypr, Sax.] Thi,s
is now nniverfally written clover, though
not fo properly.
See Clover.

Cla'vjcle. n.f. \yiavicula. Lat.'] The
collar bone.
Some quadrupeda can bring their fore feet unto
their mouths ; as mod that have clavicia, or collar

•"O"".

Brmjn.

A girl was brought with angry wheaU down
,

her neck, towards the clavicle.

IViJeman't Surrerj.

Clause. «./. [dau/ula, Latin.]
I.

A fentence;

a finglc

part of a difcourfe ; a fubdivifion of a larger fentence ; fo much of a fenteoce ai is to be
construed together.

Cod may be gloriiied by obedience, and obeyed
by perfermance of Lis

wiii,

although no Ipccial

loathfome difeafe ;

armed with claws.
Among quadrupeds, of all the clawed, the lion

into

Grcui' t Ccfmelogia

the ftrongeft.

CLAY, n.f [clai, Welfh
will

not leprous.
If die plague be fomewhat dark, and fprcad not
in the /kin, the prieft (hall pronounce him clean.

'

%,

Dutch.]
;
Unftuous and tenacious earth, fuch as

1,

Leviticus.

5.

mould into a certain form.

Clays

.ire

e.uths (irmly coherent, weighty and

comfiQ, rtilT, vifcid, and duOiletoa great degree,
whili: moift ; fmooth to the touch, not eafily

1.

break-

Clean overblown.

Shakcfpeare.
philofopher, prclfcd with the fame obje<aion,
(hapes an anfwcr clean contrary,

A

Dryden.

Expofe the clay to the rain, to drain it from iaits,
that the briciu way be more duribie.
H^oodtvard on Foffili.
fPait:.

Clover is the beft viay of improving 'la^', where

ounure i« ftarce.

Monimei 1 llujhandry.

Quite; perfeftly; fully; completely.
This fenfe is now little ufed.
Their aOions have been clean contrary unto
mentioned.
Hoiker.
Being feated, and domeftick broils

Deep Acheron,

Th« fun, which foftens wax, will harden claj.

as, a
clean trick ; a clean leap ; a clean boxer.

tliofe before

Hill on Fofpls.

Whofe troubled eddies, thick with ooze and clay.
Are whirl'd aloft.

Dextrous ; not bungling ; feat :

Clean, adv.

ing between the fingers, nor reaJily dlflufible
in
water; and, when mixed, not readily fubfiding

f""" 't'

,

Yet nothing cleaner were for fuch intent.
But r.ither fouler.
Fairy Siveen.
They make clean the outfide of the cup and of

Huditrat.

To fcratch or tickle.

4.

Theft appear plaiily to have been clavaied
fpikcs of fome kind of echinus ovariut.

; cljene. Sax.]
Free from dirt or filth ; as, clean water.

Both his hands, moft filthy feculent,
Ab:)vc the water were on high extent,
And (ain'd to wadi themfclves incelf.intly ;

But we mu(l cla-w ourfelves wirh (hameful

Cla'vated. atij. [elavatui, Lat.] Knob-

A

it;

To pull, as with the nails.

2.

name.

And mufical clatter.

'

Hawey on CcrfuKptiint.

Cla'ymarl.

To tear with nails or claws.

1.

Derham.

foil.

2.

O Rourk's joily boyj
Ne'er dreamt of the matter,
Till rous'd by the noife

Tfoodward en FoJ/ils.

Cla'vish. adj. [from clay.] Partaking of

He foftens the harlh rigour of the laws,

By this great clatter, one of the greateft note

'"

"I'was found in a cUy-fit.

CLAYEs.ti.f [claye, Pr. In fortification.]
Wattles made with Hakes interwove

Sfenfer.

blood.

fufed noife.

bed;

where clay is dug.

T' cmbrue her teeth and clatot with lukwarm

«nd plates in a kitchen, merely for the pleasure of
feeing them tumble, and hearing the clattc they

Throw by your datter^
And handle the matter.

RiWe,

A pit

and /;>.]

with ofiers, to cover with lodgments.
Chambers.
(harp naih; or the pincers or holders of Cla'vey. adj. [from clny.] Conlifting
a (hell-fi(h.
of clay ; abounding with clay.
Some in a lax 01 fandy, ferae a heavy or clayey
I faw her ranfe abroad to feek her food,

A

G row to be fhoit.

[clay

The foot of a beaft or bird, armed with

1

of fonorous bodies.
clatter is a clap often repeated with
great quicknefs, and feems to convey
the idea of a found (harper and fhriller
than rattle. [See the verb.]
1 have feen a monkey overthrow all the diflirs

Scem» bruited.

wafh'd his clay. cold corfe v\'!th holy drop?,

CLAW. n.f. [clapan, Saxon.]

a.nd quick coUifion

It is uft:d for anyitumultuous

[clay and cold.] Lifecold as the unanimated earth.

And law )iim laid In hallow'd ground.

Ayliffe.

finement ; -the aft of ihutting ; the ftate
of being (hut.

Martin.

made in their fjll.

I

;

Cla'usure. n.f. [claufura, Lat.] Con- Clay-pit. n.f.

:

2.

lefs

next to the abbot or chief governour in fuch

religious houfes.

When all the bees are gone to fettle,
You clatter ftiU your brazen kettle.
Swift.
2. To difpute, jar, or clamour
a low
word.

Clay. COLD. adj.

Clauf.ral priors are fuch as prefiJe over monafte-

ries,

And raife fuch outcries on thy clatter'd iron,

a.

:

Relating to a cloyller, or religious houie.
_

-v.

This manurisg lafts fifty years then the ground
muft be clayed again.
Mortimer^s Hujhandry,

Smth.

Cla'ustral. ac//. [ftom elauftriim, Lat.]
it

Dcnre.

.'

[from the noun.] To
cover with clay ; to manure with clay.

To Clay.

When, after his death, thty were fent both to
Jews and Gentiles, we find nc)t this elaife in their
commirticn.

the

Why (hould our clay
Over our fplrits fo much fway

Hooker.

To Cla'tTER. 1/. a.

To ftrike any thing lb as to make
found and rattle.

[In-poetry.] Earth in general ;
terreftrial element.

The c/aufe is untrue concerning the bilhop.

Sfenfrr.
bettered not

All thofa airy fpecolations, which
men's manners, were wnly a noife and chtieriag ot
words.
Decay of Piety.
1.

CLE

C L A

To talk faft and idly.

3.

Hakenjuill on Providence.

2.

Without mifcarriage ; in a dexterous
manner.
Pope came 0^ clean with Homer; but they fay,
Broome went before, and kindly (Vpt the way.
Henlrt.

To

CLE

C L E

CLE

TfCttAK.v.a. [from the adjccUvc] To

Uty it a/ten helps dige^Kon, and excites appetite.
jtrhmbnoi
AHmemt,

To free from leprofy.

4.

And many a circle, many a fljort dfay,
Wheel'd round and round.

Shew thyfelf to the pricft, and offer for AycleenJmg thofe things which Moles cimmanded.

Thmtftii,

Cle'anlily. adv. [from cltanly,] Iti a
5.

cleanly manner.

If there happens an importhumc, honey, and
even honey of roles, taken inwardly, is a good
clianjer.

Incapable of outward ftains.

1.

Swift.

Such c/ainriKifs from head to heel

No humours grofs, or frowzy fleams,
No noifame whiffs, or fwcaty Ilrcams.

Sivift.

The flrcam is fo tranfparrat, pure, and clear.
That, had the felf-enamour*d youth gaz'd here.
He but the bottom, not his face, had feen. Derh.

Cle'anlv. oi/J. [from clean.]
Free from dirtincfs ; careful to avoid
filth ; pure in the perfon.
Next that (hall mountain 'fparagus be laid,
PuU'd by fome plain but c/ejn/jf country malJ.

'

ger.
Pi'iDr.

Sternly he pronounc'd

Finding ourfeives too liow of fail, we put on a
compelled valour, and in the grapple 1 boarded
theA : on the inltant they got clear of cur Hiip.
StaLfj:eare,

Milton.

All thofe ruyal figns had ftole away.

It requires care for a snan with a double defign

4. Free from clouds ; ferene.

Sferfc'r.

I

We can fecure ourfclvcs a retreat by (omt cleanly

Onz'd hot.

Cle'anlv. ac/v: [from clean.] Elegantly;

5.

Milf.ni Paradifc l.'fl.

fack, and

live

IV.

». /. [from clea/i.]
Neatnels ; freedom from filth.
2. Eafy exaftnefs; jullncfs; natural, unlaboured correftriefs.
He fliewcd no ftrcngth in fliaking of his ftaff;

and lijhtning is produced.

1.

'

Tcmfte'.'

Many men reafon exceeding clear and ri(;htly,
who know net how to make a fyllogifm. Lccke.
7. Indifputable ; evident; undeniable.
Rcmain'd to our almighty foe
Clear viOory ; to our part lofs, and rout
Through all th' empyrean. MMtm'i Paradife hofl.

but the fine cUanrift of bearing it was delightful.
Sidney.

He minded only the clcarnefs of his fatirc, and
the cUannefs of exprcdion.
Dryden'i Ju-uenal.

Apparent ;

8.

dark.

i

Pnrity ; innocence.
The cltanrefs and purity of onr's mind is never
better proved, than in difcovoring its own faults at

i

^

manifeft ;
/_..

not hid ;

not

,

The hemlfphere of earth, la clearefi ken,
Stretch'd out to th' funplell 'reach of profpefl lay.
Milisn.

Unto Ood, who underftandetli all their fecrct
cogitations, they arc clear and man! felt.
Hooker,

Pabt.

To Cleanse, o/. a. [cl«nfian, Saxon.]
1
To free from filth or dirt, by wadiing

The pleafure of right reafoning is ftili the greater,
by how much the confcquences arc more clear, and
the chains of th-^m m^rc long.
Burnetii theory,

or rubbing.
CUanfe the pale corps with a religious hind

From thcpollutingweed andcommon fand. Pncr.
2. To purify from guilt.
The bluencfs of a wound clanfeih away evil.

.

Quick to underfland

9.

;

Of highrft agents, dcem'd however wife.

guiltlefs: with yro«i.
the blood of this woman.
Sufanna,

None is fo fit to correQ their faults, as he whoj
is clear from any in his own writings.
Drydin,
19. Sometimes with 0/;
The air is clearer of groCa and damp exhalations
Temple,

20. Ufed of perfons. Diftingnifhing; judicious ; intelligible : this is fcarcely,

ufed but in converfation.

Clear, cuiv.
1.

Plainly; not obfcurely.

Now clear I unierttand
What oft my fteddleft thoughts have fcarih'd in
vain.

2.

Mtltoit.

To free from noxious humours by pur-

Duncan has been fo clear in his great olBcr.

Think that the clearefi g!)ds, who make them

Shiiieffeert.

Of men's impoflibilities, have picferv'd thee,

This oil, combined with its own fait and fugar,
laakct it faponacwus and cltan/ing, by which qua-

Repentance fo altereth and chaagcth a man
through the mercy of Ood, be he hever lb delilc I,
tliat it maketh him pure and clctn
ff-bHgijit.

Sbahffftjre.

Miliii).

Clean ; quite ; completely.
A low
word. .,
He put hi* mouth to-Ker ear, and, under pretext of a whifpcr, bit it clear off.

L'Eflmhgt',

Clear. «./ A term ufed by builders for.
the inftde of a houfe ; the fpace within
from wall to wall.

honours

A

.

Free;

I a.Ti clear from

Unrpotted ; guiltlefs ; irreproachable.

gation.
Canft thou not minifter to a mind difcas'd,
. with fome fwoet oblivious antidote,
CUanfe the ftufF'd bofom of that perilous ftuff
Which weighs upon the heart ?
Shahijfeare.

t8.

prompt ; acute.

Mother of fcience, now 1 feel thy power
Within me clear, not only to djfcern
Things in their caufes, biK to trace tlio ways
10.

Canorous; {bunding difUndly, plain-

ly, articulately.
I much approved of my friend's infilling upon
the qualifications of a good afpcdl and a clear voice.
AdJijon.
Hark! the numbers foft and clear
Gently (leal upon the ear;
Now louder and yet louder rife,
And fill with fpreAding-.founds the Ikies. Poft,

hard to

be underllood ; not ambiguous.
We pretend to give a clear account how thunder

Cle'anness.

Provtrbi.
Not all her od'rooi tears can eleanfe her ci iirc,
The plant alone deforms the happy ciime. Drydtn.

L'EJh-avge.

17.

Without mixture ; pure j unmingled.

6. Perfpicuous ; not obfcure ; not

cleanly, as a nobleman (hnild. Shakcjp. Hcr.ry

to keep clear of daAting with his own reafonings.

Anw.

will darken the earth in a clear day.

And the clear fun on his wide watery glafs

L'E/lr'aige'i Fal>!cs.

10

Jupiter to difplay hia

Out of debt.
Uneatangled ; at a fafe diftance from
any danger or enemy.

Return'd, and gracious purpofe thus renew'd.

Through his li;ie handling, and \a% cleavly play,

3.

left for

15.
16.

Yet dreadful in mine ear, though in my choice
Not to incur; but fjon his cleai^ afpcdt

4. Nice; addrefsful; artful.

is

omnipotence, and turn the fate of armies alone.
Pcfe's EJfay on Hemtr.

The rigid interdiftion, which refounds

Perhaps human nature meets few more fweetiv
reiifliing and ckaisly joys, than thofe that derive
from fuccefsfu' trials.
Glanv'iUe.

view.

fkm

A clear ftage

Cheerful ; not clouded with care er an-

3

Statejifieare,

A pod-boy winding his hoin at us, my companion gave him two or
curfes, and left the
way cljfir for him.
AdJijun.

Drydin's FMes,

In our fantaftick climes, the fair

firft

And make a clear viiy to the gods.

A polilh'd mirrour (hone not half fo clear,

That which makes cleanlinefs.

3.

If he !*: fo far beyond his health,

Methinks he Ihould the fooner pay his debts.

A tun about was every pillar there;

of her ncft all the fmall remains of the corn on
which flie feeds.
Addijm.

Stoift,

Unencumbered ; without let or hin-

drance ; vacant ; unobAruded.

Which that falfe fruit; that promts'd cl:crcr fight.
Had bred.
Milton's ParadiJ'e Lofl.

Dryjin.

neatly ; without naftinefs.
If I do grow great, I'll leave

For life, fix hundred pounds a-ycar.
14.

Perfpicacious ; (harp.
Michael from Adam's eyes the film remov'd.

2.

An ant is a very cltan^ infefl, and throws out

With cleanly powder dry their hair.
3. Pure; innocent | immaculate.

Bright; tranfpicuous ; pellucid; tranfparent ; luminous ; without opacity or
cloudinefs ; not nebulous ; not opacous ;
not dark.

Free from deduftions or encumbrances.

Hope, if the fuccefs happens to fail, is clear
gains as long a^ it lalls.
Collier agairfl Difyair,
Whatever a foreigner, who puichafes land nerf>
gives for it, is fo much every fai thing clear gain
to the nation ; for that money comes clear in,
without carrying out any thing f t it.
Locke,
I often wilh'd that I had eUar,

Dutch;

Idair, Fr, klatr.

clarus, Lat.]

perfumes 5

trom whence a ckanlimfs remains.

evafion.

Cay,
13.

Arbutlm;!.

CLEAR. aJj.

From whence the tender /kin alTumes

2.

Free from diflrefs« profecution, or
imputed guilt.
The cruel corp'ral whifper'd in my ear,
Five pounds, if rightly tipt, would let me clear.

12.

tergent.

not to need, any exijuinte decking, having no
adorning but cltanlmefs,
SidHey.

1

That

[clacnpejie. Sax.]

which has the quality of evacuating any
foul humours, or digeiling a fore ; a de-

AiJifcn-

all

partial.
Lcucippe, of whom one look, in a r/wr judgment, would have been more acceptable than all
her kindnefs fo prodigally bellowed.
Sidney,

Addifm on Italy.

Neatnefs of drefs ; purity ; the quality
contrary to negligence and nallinefs.
The miArcfj thought it either not to dcfcrvc, or

A fvvcetnels above

11. UnprepolTeflcd ; not preoccupied ; im-

Cle'anser. »./

fpeak nothing ot' the extent of this city,
the elianlmijs of its ftrtetf, nor the beauties of its
I (hall

P'Mi".

Mart, i. 44.

To'fcour ; to rid of all ofFenfive things.
This river the Jews proffered the pope to cleanfe,
(a tliey might have what they found:

Cle'anliness. n.J". [from cleanly.']
1. Freedom from dirt or filth.

2.

Though the peripatekick philofophy has been
moll eminent in its way, yet other fe^bave not
Ltcke,
been wholly clear of it.
Statcfman, yeT friend to truth, in foul fincere.
P9pe,
In adion faithful, and in honour clear,

m

free from dirt or liltli.
Their tiibcsadju(led,r/.r«n'i/th«irvig'rousM'ings,

To Clear, 'v. a [from the adje^Hvc]
To make bright, by removing opacous
t
'.

bodies; to brighten.
Your

Your eyes, that (am f« ttiO,
Yet are but dim, (hall perfeftly be then

To CtiAR. f. n.
1
To grow bright ; to recover tranfpa-

Miltcn's Paradift Lcfl.

Open'd and clear' J.

Like Boreas in his racc.Vhen rufliing forth.
He fweeps the (kiet, and dean the cloudy North.
Dryden.
A favoury did^ a homely treat,
Where all is plain, where all is neat,
Clear up the cloudy foreheads of the great. DryJ.

rency.
S.i foul a (ky clears not without a llorm.

2.

Burnet's Tbecry,

lacicjiw.

j

3.

Somerfet was much cleared by the death of thofe
who were executed, to make him appear faulty.
Sir John Hayivard.
To clear the Deity from the imputation of
tyranny, injuftice, and diflimulation, which none
4o throw upon God with more prefumption than
thofe who are the patrons of abfolute neceflity, is
both comely and cbridian. Bramhall againfi liMet.

To cleanfe

:

j

inftant.

clearly ihined.

from
which having cleared tiie earth, be forced open the
4«or.

come out of it clearly.

Without

5.

Loch tn Educaticn.
Augullus, to ellablilh the dominion of the feas,
rigged out a powerful navy to clear it of the pirxci

T» Ct-EAR

Houfe,

ex

Jhip,

at the

Cuftom

is to obtain the liberty of failing, or of felling a cargo, by fatisfying
the Cullonu.

Vol. I.

'

.

Splendour ; luHre.
nefs, lays a

Addijon.

Drydeiti

Whom with fuch force he-ftrucJc, he fell'd him
down,

And cleft the circle of his golden crown.

His beams had cirft the hill, the valley dy'J.
Blacki.trre,
"^

throw,

And cleave a giant at a random t'ow.

Tlcki!,'.

Not half fo fwift tlic trembling doves can fly,

When the fierce r.ijlc cluf.is thr linuid (V;y.

night of forrow upon ine.

and perfpicuity.
4.

Vlhxe whole brigades one champion's ai'ms o'er-

Bacon.

'

Drydin.

Or had the fun
Elcfled to the earth a nearer feat.

.

2.

Addifon's i^pe^atir.

Sincerity; honefly ; plain dealing.

When the cafe required diilmiulation, if they

every bca 11

that

pirtcth

chavtth the cleft into two claws,

To Cleave.
I.

I'cpt,-

To divide"; to part naturally.
And

Sidmy.

3. Diftinftnefs ; perfpicuity.
If he chances to think right, he does not knowhow to convey his thoughts to anorhci with cJcarneJt

Addijons Sfeilator.

10.

Rais'd on her dulky wipgs, (he cleaves the itcii*.

;

I^ove, more clear than yourfcif, with the f/rtfr-

year, aft^r having defrayed ail the charges of work-

Our common prints would clear up their underiiandings, and animate ihaW in'>nds with virtue.

And, like a (hooting ftar, he f/e/> the night. Dryd,

Tranfparency
brightnefs.
It may be, percolation doth not only caufe

intenfe.

To confer judgment or knowledge.

The bleifed miniftcr his wings difjiiay'd.

Glafs in the funiace grows to a greater magnitude, and refines to a greater elearnejs, only as the
breath within is more powerful, and the heat more

2.

Burnet's Theory tf the Earth,

or bOTft open.

evafion.j-

of favour.
Bacon's Natural Hillary.

To
S. To gain without dedudion.

[cleopan. Sax. klo'ven, Dutch.]
To divide with violence; to fplit ; to
part forcibly into pieces.
Miltofi

elearnejs and fplendour, but fweetncfs

of Malta.
Artuthnot.
clarify ; as, to clear liquors.
7.

preter. I dove, I-

a.

The foimtains of it are fald to have been cloven,

Cle'arness. n.f. [from clear.']

are learning of any thing.

•J/,

And at their pafling cleave th' Aflyrian flood.

Tillotfon,

unto the king all their lands andpoflbliions.
Davits on Ireland.

clear their heads of all other thoughu, whilft they

ing the fait.

finiltcr

without fubterfuge.
By a certain day they (hould clearly relinquilh

1.

CLEAVE.

clave, I cleft ; part. paff. cloven, or cleft.
1.

Without deduflion or cod.
without
7. Without refer ve ;

To clear tbs palace from the foe, fuccecd

He clears but two hur.driad- thoufand crowns a

To

6.

noxioiu.
Dryden.

without

yourfelvc

any thing offenflve or

It 0iould br the ficlll and art of the teacher to

We

When you arc examining thefe matters, do not
take into confidcratiun any fenfual or worldly
intereft ;
bflt deal clearly and impartially wi^th

A

The wetiy Irving, and tcveng: the dead.

by-ends;

to oe united

cannot imagine, that, in breeding or begetting faith, his grace doth cleave to the onc^
and forfake the other.
Hooker.

Bacon's Effayi.

views ; honeftly.

;

with.

affairs.

iyUkins.

Drydtn.
ftatue lies hid !n a block of marble; and the
in of the ftatuary only clears away the fuperfluous
latter, and removes the rubbifti. Addijons Sfca.
Multitudes will furnifli a double proportion towards the clearing of that expence.
Addifons Freeholder.

9.

Kr.olUs's Hifloty of the Turks.

To be concomitant to

4.

4. Without entanglement or diftraftion of

This one mighty fum has tlear'd the debt.

To free from

The apoftlcs did conform the Chriftians according to the pattern of the Jews, and made them
cleave the better.
Hooker,
.
The men of Judah clave unto their king. San,
If you Ihall cleave to my confent, when 'tia.
It IKall make honour for you.
Shakefptare,
The people would revolt, if they faw any of the
French nation to cleave unto.

Ben Jorfcn.

door, l^^ing a wall on each hand of it ;

6.

To unite in concord and intereft; to
adhere.

3.

H^^oker.

He that doth not divide, will never enter into
bufinefs ; and he that divideth too much, will never

to fit.

Like our ftrange garments, cleave not to their
mould.
But with the aid of ufe.
Shakefpeare.

With difcernment ; acutely ; without
embarraflment or perplexity of mind.
There is almoll no man but fees clearlier and

A man digging in the grouad did meet with a

;

New honours come upon him.

Chriftianity firft r/Mr^ proved this noble and
important truth to the world.
Rogers.

barrafTment.

to flick ; to hold to.

To unite aptly

2.

Plainly ; evidently; without obfcurity
or ambiguity.

(harper the vices in a fpcaker than the virtues.

;

[cleo-

I clave,

Dutch.]

flicks to that clea-ving
Bacon's Natural liifiiry.
Water, in fmall quantity, cleavctk to^ny thing
Bacon's Natural Hijiory.
that is folld.
When the duft groweth into hardaefs, and tlic
clouds cleave faft together.
Jtb*
The thin ciiamclcon, fed with air, receives
The colourof the thing to which he c/t«t«^ Dryd,

Add'ifon.

Myllciies of grace and falvation, which were but
darkly djfclofed unto thcnl,' have unto tis more

J.

pret.

>i.

body.

Brightly; luminoufly.

2.

.

whereby the gTOler part

Cle'arly. eu^v. [from clear.']
1.

f

The clarifying of liquors by adhefion, iS effefteJ
when fome cleaving body is mixed with the liquors^

A cer-

purifier ; enlightener.
Gold is a wonderful clearer of the undcrdandtng : it diflipates every doubt and fctuple in an

but 1 fiiame

A little water clears us of this deed. Shakeffeare.
To remove any encumbrance, or em-

.

To adhere

1

Cl e'a R E R. n.f. [from cUar.'\ Brightener

To wear a heart fo white
{

To CLEAVE,

a Ihip has been cleared at
the Cuftom Houfe.

with of, 01 from.

My hands are of your colour

To

ftiffen with flarch.
Jlarch.']
He took his prefent lodging at the manfionhoufe of a tiylor's widow, who waflies, ihd can
clearjiarcb his bauds.
Addifo/t,

tificate that

For fenifing him no aid, Ihe came from Egypt>

^.

Denbem*

To Cle'arstarch. v, a. [from clear and

jran. Sax. kk'vetr,

Cle'arance. ». /. [horn clear.']

To clear herfelf,
Dryden.
I will afpeal to the reader, and am Cure he will
Dryden'i Fables.
tlear me jfrcm partiality.
How ! wouldft thou deer rebellion ? jiddijon.
Before you pray, clear your foul from all thofe
fins, which yau know to be difpleafing to God.
H^ake's Preparation for Death.

And fenfe, her valTal, in her footlteps treads.

dilh-efs, or entanglements.

H« that clears at once, will relapie J for, finding
himfelf out of ftraits, he will revert to Wscuftoms ;
but he that clearetb by degrees, induceth a habit of
frugality, and gaineth as well upon his mind as
upon his eftate*
Bacon's EJfays.

tm

Clearjigbted reafon wifdom's judgment le.ids ;

Swift's Direffiors to the Groom.

To be difengaged from encOrabrances,

3.

To purge from the impntation of gailt
to JEftify ; to vindicate ; to defend
often with/rom before the thing.

\_clear unAJight.']

Ferfpicuous ; difcerning ; judicious,

for you are afraid there will be rain.

left for

"

Shakefpeare's Macbeth.

Sbakeff,

Take heart, nor of the laws of fate complain
Tho' now 'tis cloudy, 'twill clear up again. Norris.
Advife him to itay till the weather clean up,

When, in the knot of the pUy, no other way is
the difcovery, then let a god dcfcend,
DryJer.
and clear the bufinefs to the audience.
By myftical terms, and ambiguous phrafes, he
he
Aould
clear
up.
Beyle.
darkens what
Many knotty points there an,
Priu-.
Wbidi all difcufs, but few can clear.

I require a clearnefs.

Clearsi'ohted. adj.

Sometimes with up.
The mift, that hung ^boat my mind, clears tip.

To clear up the feveral pjrts of this theory, I
was willing to by alide a great many other fpecu-

Freedom from imputation.

J,

Addifon.

To free from obfcurity, perplexity, or
^
ambiguity.

2.

CLE

C l£

CLE

11,

hoof, anJ
Deutermomy.

tjie

n.

To part afunder.
Wars 'twixt you twain, would be
As if the world (hould cleave, and that flain men
Should folder up the rift.

ufed it, the former opinion fpread abro;\d, of their

.'ihakejpeari' t Arlory and Cleipa-ret,

made them

The jr»\ind clstife afundtu^ lliac wai under them.

good faith and

clearrefs

glmoft iovincibU.

of ikalingj

.

Numhtt.

Softm.

T

t

i(t

C LE

C L E
He cut the eltaving Ikj,
And !n i moment vaniA'd tVom her rye,

Thitt crabbed months had fowi'd tbemfclres t»

•

Pift'i OJjfef.

0t

It eiigvts with, a

polite

fnMVinoe,

Bit

pLuie, bat with lomc little uncvenncA.

t^Lt'AVfR. ti./, [horn cleave.]
I. A butcher's inlbumeut to cut animals

Greek.] The body of men

We hold that God'a tlergy are a flate which
upon

and will be as loflg as there is a churcli
ncceflary, by the plain word of God
himfelf ; a rtate wbcrcunto the reft of God's people
muft be fubjefi, as touching tMugs that appertain

A weed. Improperly written Clivlr.

s.

liool^r.

The convocation give a greater fum
Than ever, at one time, tlic clergy yet
Did to faispredcceflbrs part withal.

Sb'titff.eare.

The two parts ot" the foot of Cle'rcvm AN. »r. y; [f&^ and oifla.] A
man in hnly orders a man fet apart for
beafts which are sloven-footed.' Sinner.

Clees.

». /.

Well-lhaped; handfome.

3.

She called him guiidy-guts, and he called her

eartli,

to tlitir f.)ar« health.

Hujitidi.

loufy Peg, though the girl was a tight eltv.r wenLh
as any was.

rupted from cla-ius.
n. /.
[from eltf, key, Fr.] la
jnufick, a mark at the beginning of the
lines of a fong, which ftiews the tooe
or key in which the piece is to begin.

Ci-Eif.

H')\»" I

E' duty.
Cle'rical. aJJ,

Unlefs

I never did on cleft Parnadus dtcim.

and cracks of rocks.
Mdifcn'i Guardian.
The extremity of this cape has a long cleft in it,
which was enlarged and cut into fhapeby Agrippa,
who made this the great port for the Roman tUet.

A fcholar

Fjrricr'i DiSi.

My lord Baflanio gave his ring away

My

counfellor, he let the thought drop.

yiddifn.

A petty writer in publick offices ; an

4;

officer of various kinds.
Take a juft view, how many may remark

Who 's now a lord, his grandfire was a clerk,
Granville,

Mercy ; remiffion of feverity ; wilHng-

It may feem difficult to

make out the hills of

fare (01 the fupperi of Vltcllius.
I queftion not
ncfs to fpare ; tendernefs in punilhing.
but an expert cUrk of a kitchen can do it.
I have dated the true notion of cUmency, mercy,
/trhuthmi.
companion, good-nature, humanity, or whatever
sMe it may be called, fo far as is coofiftcnt with ,5. The layman who reads the refponfcs
wifdom.
to the congregation in the church', to
444iJ<m.
3. Mildn«fs ; foftnefs.
direft the reft.
Then in. the clemency of upward air
Cle'rkship. »./ [from rArri.]
We'll fcour our fpocs, and the dire thunder fear.
1. Scholarlhip.

CLE'MENT. aelj. [cUmem, Lat.] M?!*";
gentle ; merciful ; kind ; tender ; companionate.
You arc more eletimet than tile men,

Who of their broken debtors take a thirJ,
Letting t)iem thrive again on the abatement.
Sbakeffeare.

Clench.

SeeCmfCH.

Ti Clbp*. v.
tall.

a.

Obfolete.

[dypian. Sax.]

?

not how to tranfpurt hii
thoughts over to the next particular, f«f want of
fome eirvi, or connecting idea, to lay hold of.

The reader knows

writer.

.Msnimer.

I .

No eirttf to guide me thro' this gloomy maze.
To cle.ir my honour, yet prefcrvo my faith Smith,

A man employed under another aj a

friend was in doubt whether he could not
exert the jufticc upon fuch a vagrant ; but not
having his clerk with him, wlio is a neceflUry

2.

The office of a clerk of any kind.
He fold the clerkjhip of his parifti, when it became vacant.

H'J/ifl'' Mifcillaniei.

Holder.

Is there no way, no thought, no beam of light I

&utb,

ahakeffiiare.

Lat.]

you.

The greateft clerks being not always the Jioncfteft,

Unto the judge ; and then the boy, his clerk,
That took fome pains iu writing, he bcgg'd mine.

a direftlon : becaufe men di-

;

dew of thread in a
labyrinth.
This alphabet muft be yout own cleti) to guide

a man of letters.

any more than the wifell, men.

A guide

redl themfelves by a

They miglit talk of book-learning what they

His horfe it is the heralds weft;

Cle'mencv. ti./. [clemeuce, Fr. dementia,

2.

Ayliffe.
;

Spenjir.

While, guided by fome r/nti of heav'nly thread.
The perplex'd labyrinth we backward tread.
Rifcmumn,
They fee fmall r/fwi draw vafteft weights along.
Not in their bulk, but in their order, ftrong. Dryd,

for his part, he never faw more imfcaty fellowi than great c/erki were.
i'ifcey.

No, 'tis a marc, and hath i cleft.

Ben ytnfan.
T<> Cle'ftcraft. i^. a. [cle// zni gra/}.]
To engraft by cleaving the ftodt of a
tree, and inferting a branch.
Filberts may be tleftgrafitd on the common- nut.

Eftfoons unCwifting his deceitful clevi,

would ; but,

appear en the booght of the paflems, and
caufcd by a (harp and malignant humour,

Thread wound upon a bottom ; a ball of
He 'gan to weave a web of wicked guile.

0|- deacons.

2.

accomplifhment.

thread.

we may more properly read

All pcrl'ons were ftiled derks, that (crvti in the
church of Cbrift, whether they were bilhops, pricfts,

3.

pain, and a noifomc fteiich.

1

A clergyman.

Clifit

'

terity ; (kill ;

CLEW. n./. [cly-pe. Sax. klou-wen, Dutch.]

tin.]
1.

Woid-.vard.

which frets the (kin ; and it is accompanied witli

Cle'verness. ». y! [from fZfffr.] Dex-

CLERK, n. /. [clepic, Sax. cUrlcus, La-

does not move far ; but lodges in the ckfn, craggs,
and fides of the rocks, near the bottoms nf them.

arc

u, a cltrical man,

clarichords.

Mdifn en frj!y.
The reft of it, being more grofs and ponderous,

In farriery.

Lat.] Relat-

In clericali the key* ate lioed, and ia colleges
they ofe to line the tabfe-men.
Baccn'i UiKurtl Uificry.

Alilimi'i PjraJjfi LeJI.

A

[cUricui,

ing to the clergy :
a man in orders.

Fat with inccnfe ftrew'd

arm, and take off a man's head as cleverly, as the
executioner.
Smth,

S-uiift,

is

UvdHrdl,

A rogue upon the hlghwav may have as lirasg an

KjM to make tl^ moft ignorant m^n comprehend

vided ; parted afunder.

Nor taile the facrcd Heliconian (Iream. Dryden.
Cleft, n./. [from cUanie.']
fpace made by the feparation of
1.
parts ; a crack ; a crevice.
The cafcades feem to break through the ckfis

As cleverly as th' ableft trap.

Sbtiltff.

It feenii to be in the powrr of a reafonablc efer-

Cleft, fiart. pajf, [from clta-ve.] Di-

2.

have fped among l!ic clergymen,

The fnms 1 have collefled fliall e«prefs.

Chambers

Oo the eleff wood.

teroufly ; fitly ; handfomely.
Thcfc would inveigle rats with th' fcent.
And fometimes catch them with a fnap.

minillration of holy things ; not a laick.

and probably cor-

Ariuiknot.

This is a low word, fcarcely ever ufed
but in burlefque or converfation ; and
applied to any thing a man likes, without a fettled meaning.
Cle'verly. adv. [from elever.l Dtx-

4..

;

It is a country word,

proper ; commodious.

fit ;

can't but think 'twould found mote clever.
To me, and to my heirs for ever.
P'fe^
1

Yau gentlemen keep a pared of roaring bullies'
about me day and night, with hnzeaf and bunting
Tho' arm'd with all thy droK^er;, knives,

2, Juft ;

of God.
hatii been,

And a^et made to li:w down livi.'.

read Dyer's letter

I

fet

apart by due ordination for the fervice

into joint£.

hornsj and ringing the changes on butchers eir.tvrri.

L'Ff range,
more for the ftile than the
news. The man has a clever pen, it muft be owned,
jiddifm'i FrcehMcTm

Simieffetrc.

CLE'RGY. n. f. [clerfe, Fr. elerut, Lat.
itXiifO!,

Nt-u'iim't Of licit.

fkilfttL

It waa the cleverer mockery of the two.

Ere I couM make thee open thy white hand.

And r\efe thjfclf my love.

glotTjr

Dexterous.;

t.

death.

To fuffer dmfiotu

2,

eL'h

ff'atts'i togict.

3.

Clew tfth* fail »f afl/ip, is the lower

corner of it, which reaches down to that
earing where the tackles and Iheets are
faftened.
Harris,
Tb Clew. f. «. [from clciu, a fea term.]
To clew the fails, is to raife them, in order to be furled ; which is done by a
rope faftened to the clew of a fail, called
the clew-garnet.
Harris.

To CLICK, -v. n. [cliken, Dutch cliquetir,
French ; or perhaps the diminutive of
;

clack.']

To make a fharp, fmall, fuccef-

(ive noife.
The folemn death-watch elick'd, the hour Ae
died ;

And drilling ericken in the chimney cried. Cay,
Cli'cicer. tt.f. [from did.] A low word
for tlie fervant of a falefman, who ftands
at the door to invite cuftomers.
Cli'cket. n.f. [from click.] The knockSkinner,
er of a door.

Cleve.I In compofitlon, at the beginClif. > ning or end of the proper CLI'ENT. n.f [clitni, Latin.]
Clive. J
name of a place, denotes it I. One who applies to an advocate for
to be fitoated on the fide of a rock or
hill ; as, Cleveland, Clifton, Stanclijf,

To CLE'VER, adj.
logy.

[of no cer»in etymo-

counfel and defence.
There is due from, the judge to the advocate
fome commendation, where caufes arc well handled ; for that

upholds in ti» (liul the reputation

of Jus coijnfel.

Seien'i Sjjjyi.

Advgcacct

C L I

C L T

AJTOMtei muft deal plainly with theJr Aetils,
aed tell the true ftzte of their cafe.
Tayhr'i Ruie ofL'mh^ Holy.

t. It may be perhaps fometimes ufed for a
dependant in a more general fenfe, as
it was ufed ar ing the Romans.

C L 1

polar circles to the poles, climates are
meafured by the increafe of a month.
2. In the common and popular fenfe, a region, or tradl of land, differing from
another by the temperature of the air.

I do think they are your friends and clitnti,
Bin yinjon.

On what new happy climate are we thrown

DryJen.

Supplied with clients.
This due occafion of difcouragemcnt] the word
conditioned «nd lead clitnrtJ petivoguers do yet,
under the fwcet bait of revenge, convert to a more
plentiful profecution of aflions.
Cti>«t'*i Survey of CcrtnoalK

This talent of moving the paJTiont cannot be of
any great ufc in the northern climatn.

The bleflcd gods

Cli'entship. n. /. [from clJtnt.] The Cli'max. »./.
Patronage and clitntjhip among the Renuas al:
the plebeian houfes had recourfe
to the patrician line which bad formerly protected
them.
Drydtr,

rock, according to
Skinner, broken and craggy, [rapes.
a

'\

The Leucidians did ufe to precipitate a man
•

found fcattered upon the
ihores, there ii it as cooftandy found lodj^ed in the
(o

Thou

Cranvil/e.

We (hall meet

do'ft

^

_''"SS'

Still rlfing in a

1.

climax, till the laft,

SurpalTing all, is not to be furpaft.

SImois rowls th« bodies and the Ihiclds

Of heroes, whofe difmember'd hands yet bear
Drydet.

V«u tempt the fury of my three attendants,
Sfenfer.

Their talleft trees are about feven feet high, the
tops' whereof I could but juft reach with
fill
clinched.
S-wifl.

my

Si'ttkejpeare.

When (hall I come to the top of th.it fame hi >—

tain fpace of time,

or progreflion of
years, which is fuppofed to end in a
critical and dangerous time.

fide.

4.

11

^You do climh up it now. Look, liow «-e labour.
^hakijpcatc.

Jonathan ctmicd up upon bis hands and upon
f" feet.
, Sam.

Elder times, fettling their conceits upon c!imac.

one another. Brvwn's Vulg. Err.

1.

Thou fun

which fome great change is fuppofed to

!

Certain obfrrvable years are fappofcd to be attended with fome confiderable change in the body
;
as the feveoth year ; the twenty-firft, m»de up of
three times feven ; the forty-ninth, made up of
fevcn times ftven ; the fixty- third, being nine
times feven ; and the eighty-firft, \Ahich is nine
times nine : which two lift are called the grand

fair ft._

verb.]

tTie

Milton.
of this great world both eye and foul.

in '.'^s, is likewife a clinch.
Such as tlrey arc, I hope they will prove, with-

MiUm'i Paradijc LoJI.

No rebel Titan's facrlleglouc crime.

out a clinch, luciferous ; fearching after the nature
of "ght.
fioyle.
Pure clinches the fuburbian mufe aft'ords.
And Panton waging harmlefs war with words.

Rcjcommon.

Black vapours climi aloft, aijd cloud the djy.

Vrphn.

Vrjdcn.
>

The numbers feven acd ainc, multiplied into
themfclvc!, do mjke up fixty-tlirw, commonly
efteemcd the great slimailerical a{ out lives.

Here one poor word a hundred clinches rtakes.

What controulingcaufe

Makes waters, in contempt «f nature's laws,
C/imi up, and gain th' al'i'mng mouatain's height ?

Pope.
2.

Climb. <«. a. To afcend
Is't not enough to break into

at your great
(rmaUtrijur, yet give no proof of the Icaft decay
vf yoar excellent judgment and coroprehenftfin.

;

to moujit.

my garden,

CUmlUg my walls, in fpite of me the wwner ?

Cli'kcher. «./. {iravci clinch. Acramp^
a holdfall
a piece of iron bent down
"^

;

to fallen planks.
The wimblci for the work Calypfo found

Sbakrfptare.

Thy arms purfue

Drylrn.
My mother is fometliing better, though, at her
advanced age, every day Ii a cumaairick.
Pipe.

Paths of renown, and climb afccnts of fame. Prior.
Forlorn he mull and'pcifjcutcd fly j
Climb the ftccp mountain, in the c.ivcrn lie. Prior.

CLI'MATE. ». /. [,>i^«.]
Cli'mber. n.f. [i'vom ilimh .]
I. A fpace upon the furfacc of the earth,
I.

One that mounts or fcales any place
or thinv ; a mounter ; a rifer.
I

wait not at the lawyer's gate^i,

Nc flwuldct slimberi duwn the fia'irs.
Carevi's Survij.

That part of the cable which is failened
to the ring of the anchor.

B!actm<irt.

7tf

Your lord/hip being now arrived

a

:

By leaping hills on hills, can thither clirnl),

ctimcSlcrickt.

;

an ambiguity;

a duplicity of
me.aning, with an identity of expreffion.
How it obtains this meaitjng is difiicult
to find. A nail caught on the other fide,
and doubled, is a nail clinched a word
taken in a different meaning, and doubled

Acknowledge him thj greater ; found bis praife
In thy eternal cnurfc, both when thou dimh'fl.
And when high noon haft gain'd, and when thou

befal the body.

[from

A word ufed in a double meaning
pun ;

Into the windiw cUmhs, or o'er the tiles.
So cicmk the firft grand thief into God's fold.

certain number of years, at the enr of

To confirm ; to fix : as, to clinch aa
argument.

Clisch. n./.

As a thief

Climacte'rick. \adj. [from dimacClimacte'rical. \ «r.] Contaiainga

Bjeafured from the equator to the polar
io each of which fpaces the
longeft day is half an hour longer than
in that nearer to the ct^uator.
from the

To bend the point of a nail in the other

3.

l<»i famine, quartcri!'^ fteel, and climhing fire.

CLIMA'CTER. »./ [K\,^.axTi,^.] A cer-

Broiunt Vulfrar Errours.

To contraft or double the £ngers.

2.

efforts.

Down he tumbled, like an aged tree,

a.

The dart aloft, and clinch the pointed 4>=ar.

like clime,

difufed.

a-,

compafs, Minjheiu.'\
To hold in the hand with the fingers
bent over it.

Granvil/e.

pret. clomb or climbtJ;
part, clomb or climbed. It is pronounced

[chman. Sax. klinunen, Dut.]
to mount by
;
means of fome hold or footing. It implies labour and difficulty, and fucceffive

Atlerbury.

[clymja,. Sax. t«
knock, Junius; dingo, in Feftus, to en-

To CLIMB. 'V. n.

To afcend up any place

<

In happier dimes, and on a fafer (hore.
Add'ifon.
Health to vigorous bodies, or frnitfbl feafon^ in
temperate cl'ima, ate cnmunon and familiar bkf-

To CLINCH,

The name of a charafter in mafick.
Properly Clef.
Clift. «./. The fame with Cliff. Now

• circles ;

Of beauty fing, her iliining progrefs view.
From clime to clime the daiiling light purfue.

Choice between one excellency and another is
and yet the condufion, by a due ciimtx,
is evermore the bell.
Dryd, Juv, DitHcathtt.
Some radiant Richmond every age has grac'd.

».

ters, differ from

Gradation ; af-

fland it.

U^octkvarJ.

High growing on the top of rocky clifi.

Milton.

Theyapply the celeftial defcrlptlonof other climes
unto their own.
Brinvn's J'ulgar Errours.

diflicultj

from a high cliff inr.o the fea.

thereabouts.

therefore properly poetical.] Climate ;
region ; traft of earth.
He can fprcad thy name o'er land and feas.

Whatever clime the fun's bright circle warms.

nothing,
moveft nothing, thinkeft nothing ; but
I hear it, I fee it, and perfedlly under-

Cliff, n.f. \cUvus, Lat. clip, cliop» Sax.]

Bacon's Nat, Hijt.
Mountaineers, that from Sererus came,
At>d from the craggy clifft o{ Tetrica.
DrjJcn.

[).^i,aaJ.]

fays to Catiline,

ways defcended

eliffs

Clime, n./. {contrafted from clitna/e, and

Sbaidteari.

cent : a figure in rhetorick, by which
the fentence rifes gradually; as Cicero

coadition of a client.

*tis

In fcaling the youngcft to pluck, bff his becke,

Have heav'n and c»rth together dcmonfti ated
Unto our climaturit and countrymen. Shakefpcart.

Senjonfun.

To

Beware how ye climber for breaking your neck.

Not in ufe.
Such harbingers preceding fliil the fates.

And, nnder the pretext of r/ioir«/r.

Millar.

;

mate.

fcarcely ufed.
There 's Varui holdf go«d quarter) with him ;

Wherever

the country people eld man's beard.

ToCli'.mber. 11. a. [iromclamber.l
mount with effort to climb.

A word Cli'mature. *:/. The fame with Cli-

condition or office of a client.

Mortimer.

The name of a particular herb.
The feeds are gathered into a little 1 » id, ending
in a kind of rough plume ; whence it is called by

A word

Purge all Infeflion from our alx, wliilft you

Cliektb'lB. n.f, [clienula, Lat.] The

;

3.

only in Shakejpeare.

Do climatt here.

A

Ivy, briony, honey-fuckles, and other dimbcri,

Sivifr.

To Cli'mate. i;. ». To inhabit.

Whereto ihtcUmhcr upward turns his face. Shak,
plant that creeps upon other fupports.
muft be dug up.

?

Cli'ektid. particip. adj. [from fAV/j/.]

1. A ileep rock

2.

Betwixt th' extrcmrs, two happier c/imatii hold
The temper that partakes of hot and cold. DryJ.

And fearful to difturb you.

Will be admitted.

Lowlincfs is young ambition's ladder,

With

thrfc he

pierc'd

'era,

and

;

with dimhtrt

bound.

p!,fi.

To CLING. <v. V. pret. / clur.g

;

p.irt.

/

hai'c dung, \klynger, Danilh.]
I.

To hang upon by twining round; to
ftick to ;

to Jiold fall upon.
TIk- broil long doubtful flood j

As two IJ)cnt fwimmers th.i; da Uing together.

And choak th'i; art.

Tt 1

$l<a\, i^eare.
'

Thr

,

C L I

fame radical fenfe, fince flieCrs cnt by
inclofing and embracing..]

To

pine away. [Declunjenrpeop, a wither-

trnvagjut atheifls may lliink us delicieiit in that,
all the world niuft have confented Co dip them.

ed tree.]

By this l«k, this fjcred lock, I fwear,
Which never mote fli«l;join its parted hair,

Sbahlfearc'i Mjctutl.

Cli'nical. 7 aJj. [xX!>u, to lie down.]
Cli'nick. 5 Thofe that keep their beds ;
thofe that are fick, pad hopes of reco-

Swift,

Sometimes with off.

3.

We (hould then haie as much feeling upon the

of a nerve.
A clinical leilure is a difcourfe dipping sfft hair, ai the cuttingBenr/iy'}
Sermons.
Upon a difeafe, m^e by the bed of the
"
4. It is particularly ufed of thofe who di-

very.

patient.

ininifh coin, by paring the edges.
This defignof newtoinage, isjull of the nature
of capping.
Lickt.

A clinical ceti'vert, one that is converted on his death-bed.
This word
occurs often in the works of Taylor,
or corrupted from click.']
To
ilrike fo as to make a fmall (harp noife.
clank,

!

a long Icafe for the dhk'wg of pew-

ter.
8"(»

Shaktfpeare*

Ct-iNK. i;. ».

To Utter a fmall, fliarp,

To curtail

To confine; to hold

interrupted noife.
Tff

Underneath th' umbrella's oily ffied.
Safe thro' the wet on claiking pattens tread.

Privily he peeped out thro' a chink.

.

fpangles,. falfe glitter,

French crowns, and t3-morrow the king
Himfelf will be a dipper.
Sbakefpeare,
No coins pleafed (bm« medallifts more than
thofe which had palTed through the hands of an
old Roman dipper,

The clock of a flocking ; the flowers or
inverted work about the ankle.
His (bockings with filver docks were

Sbakefpeare.

A phrafe in falconry.

».

It is no Englifli treafon to cat

Sf infer.

CLI'N^ANr,adj, [French.] DrelTed in

clocks.
This inequality. has been diligently obferved by
feveral<if our ingenious ihckmfikiri, and equation]
been made and ufed by them.
Dtriiam.

Clo'ckwork. n,f. [^frorn clack and ivcrk.}
Movements by weights or fprings, like
thofe of a. clock.
So if unprejudic'd you fcan

The goings of this dockioork, man
You find a hundred movements made
By fine devices in his head

cut or clipped off.
.

Beings purely material, without fenft or thought,
as the dippings o{ oat beards, and parings of our

To-day the French,
All eliafuatit, all in gold, like heathen gods,
Shone down the Englini.

naiis.

Sbakefpeare,

To CLIP. -v. a. [clippan,. Sax.]

Now runa and takes her in hit dipfing arms.
Sidney.

t)

The anvil of my fword, and do conteit
Hotly and nobly with l-hy love.

Under a chke that is of any length.

That Neptune'a arms, who dlfpeti thee about.

Whj with their drov/fy, flow, and flagging wi.x;»,
Sbakefpeare.

Dutch ; apparently from the

2.

A concealment

To Cloak, v, a, [from thenpua.]

Peter.

Ban*.
up, as plows

Ben Jonpm,

Who fmooths with harrows, or who pound*
with rakes,

The crumbling dodi,
2.

A turf; the ground,

Drydttt

Byiantians boaft, that on the dod.
Where once their fultan's horfe has trod.
Grows neither grafs, nor flirub, nor tree. Smift,

; a cover.
Not ufing your liberty for a dxik of maliciouf-

To cover wkh a cloak.

not fo good as that which cafteth up

Do barren lands, and ftrike together flints
And clods, th' ungratefiil fenate and th» people.

Pope's Odyjey,

n'f"-

I.

is

I'll cut

Sbakefpeare,

Bo'"*"

Thejadea
That drag the tragick melaneholy night,

;

great clod,

a fmaller dod.

Their dnies were cloth of iilver, mix'd with
Dryden.
All arguments will be as little able to prevail,
as the wind did with the traveller to part with his
chak, which he held only the faftrr.
Locke,
Nimbly he rofe, and caft his garment downj
That inftant in his cloak I wrapt me round.

Sbakefpeare,

Enter the city j clip yoar wiveS}. your friends
Tell them your jeata.
Sbakifpeare,

To eut with (beers, [klipper, Danifh

A lump of earth or clay ; fuch a body
of earth as cleaves or hangs together.
The earth that cafteth up from the plough »

You may bear It

O nation, that thou couldll remove

The male relicth on the back of the female,
diffmg and embracing her with his legs about the
Bcck and body.
Jtjy,

klotte, Dutch.]
1.

The outer garment, with which the reft
are covered.

Stakeffeare,

.liriufbncf,

.

CLOD. n,f [club. Sax, a little hillock j

CLOAK. »./ [lach, Saxon.]
1.

Here I e/ifi

„, ^^

It grows wild, the feeds flicking to the clothes of
fuch as paft by them. It is fometimes ufed in
medicine.
Miller,

Pricrt

fire

More properly

written clea'ver.

:

But 'tis the ftomach's folid ftroke.
That tells this being what's o'clock.
Within this hollow was Vulcan's fliop,

full of
and clockwork,
..Iddifoit,
You look like a puppet moved by clocktuork.

L.cke.

Cu'vER.ff. / An herb.

1. To embrace, by throwing the arms
round ; to hug ; to enfold in tlie arms.
He that before fliunn'd her, to (hun fuch harms,

Stoj/t*

An infeft ; a fort of beetle.
DiO.
Clo'ckmaker. ». /., [clock and «a/rr.}
An artificer whofe profeffion is to make

4.

The p^rt

I

raviflied

ftomhim^

/Iddifon.

C l I'p p N c. n, /. [from clip,']

tinfel finery.

kt't/)en,

Clip, f

Cli'pper. n./. [from clip.] One that debafes coin by cutting.

fual feofe.
I believe the knocker of a
door.
Tho' creeping clofe, behind the wicket's cUnh,

a.

Kncnes.
About nine of the dock at lught the king marched
out of the North-port.
Clarendon.

Dryden,

I heard the c/int and fall of fwords. Shakijfeare.
2, It feems in Spen/er to have fome unu-

Clip dead m^n's graves.

oiglit-

3.

And with her eagernefs the quarry mifs'd.
Straight flies at check, and dips it down the wind.

Clink. »./. [from the verb.]

in-

——

to contain.

Some falcon (loops at what her eye iefign'd.

Cay's Trivia,

embroidery,

Or

ten o'clock, for the tenth hour,
ffbat is 't o'clock f
Upon the ftroke of four.
Sbakefpeare,
Macicaus fet forward about /«, oV»c* in the

S-wift,
;

Who calls me pupil ?

A (harp fucceffive noife; a knocking.

The inllrument which, by a feries of
mechanical movements, tells the hour
by a ftroke upon a bell.
If a man be in ficknefs or pa'm, the time will

feem longer without a dock or hour-glafs than
with it.
Sacm.
The pifture of Jerome ufually defcribed at hia
ftudy, is with a dock hanging by.
Brovins P^ulgar Erronrs^
I told the docks, and watch'd the wafting light.
Dryden,
2. It IS an nfual expreflion to fay. What it.
it of the clock, for What hour is it?

Where is he living, dipt in with the fca.

The fever'd ban
Submiflive cl'mk againft your braaea portals. Prkr.

1.

bell, Wellh and Armorickj cloche, Fr.]

;

a third in the fuburbs.

6.

Sbakifpeare,

CLOCK. »./, [clocc, Welfh, from cUcl>, a

to cut fliort.
All my reports go with the niodeft truth
Nor more, nor dipt, but fo.
Shaiefpeare.
Mrs. Mayorefs dipped the king's Englirti. 'jiMif.
Even in London, they dip their words after one
manner about the court, aaothpr in the city, and

5.

To CLINK, f. a. [perhaps fofteued from

Five years

('Tis in my doakhag) doublet, hat, hofe, all

J.

He fpent every day ten hours doting, clpfing
papers, or darning his ftockings.

Sbakffp,

have already fit

That anfwcr to them.

Pope.

adhellve.

-

1

C'.ipp'd from the lowly head where late it grew.

Cli'ngy. atij. [from cZ/Vj.] Apt to eling;

•^

Why doft thou converfe writh that trunk of
humours, that fluffed doaklag of guts }

Bentlcy,

If thou ft>eak'll falfe,

Upon tlie next tree flialt thou hang aiire,
famine d'mg thee.

are carried.

But If-ve S.iidipp'a his wings, and cut him fljott,
Confin'd within the purlieus of his court.
DryJeit't FaUct,
If mankind had had wings, as perhaps fome ex-

I

Sftrfer,

Clo'a k b a c «. / [from cloak and hag. J A
portmanteau ; a bag in which clothe*
.

Suekrir.g.

Mo'l popular conful he is grown, methinks :
How the rout e/ing to him Sen jcnfin^t Catiline.
dry ap ; to confume ; to walle ; to
3.

to conceal.
;
Moft heavenly 'lir, in deed and view,
She by creation was, till flie did fall
Thenceforth Ihe fought for helps to 'thai hat
crimes withal.

He cEjit hope's wingf, whofc airy blifs
Much higher than fruition is.
Denham.

To adhere, as followers or friends.

'Fill

Siivey,

Then let him, thut my love /hall blame,
Or dip love's «ing5, or quench love's flame.

S<e in the circle next Eliia jilac'd,
Two habes o( lOve dofe clinfrit.g to her waill. Pofc.
T!»it they may the clolcr cim^,
Take your blue tibhun for a ftring.
Sw:fl-

To hide

1.

Your Accis come too late to clip the bird's
wirgs, that already is flown away.

B'.tcinnrt,

3.

C LO

C L

Tlie rannnel in h'u ntclc wai defcritd by the
tliiritg of his htir to the plifter. lyifcman'i Surg.
wlitn they united and togetlier eluiig
When undiltinguiflj'd in one heip tliey hong.

3.

Any thing
duJler.
Fifliermcn

concreted

together in

a

who make holes in the ice to dip up

Uk with their nets, light on fvyaUoirs congealed

C LO
In

Ml of a flimy fubftance

;

C L O
and cirrymg them

home to their ftoves, the warmth reftoreth them
to life and flight.

His tnajefty's lliips were over-peftered and dcgged
with great ordnance, whereof there is fuporfiuity.

Some folitary clcifier will 1 choofc,
And there with holy virgins live immur'd. Dryd,

Rak'igh.

How could he have the leifure and retirednefs
of the chijicr, to perform tiwfe a£ts of devotion ?

Carnti,

A lump, a mafs of metal.

4..

3.

To load ; to burthen

One at the forge

Had melted,

The ckgging burthen of a guilty foul,
You 'II rue the time

Milton.

.

Any thing vile, bafe, and earthy ; as

In dreadful darknefs lend delired light.
The ^irit of man,

4.

How the purer fpirit is united to this clu!, li a
knot too hard for our degraded intelle£is to untie.
GlanvilU.
In moral refledions there muft be heat, as well
as dry reafon, to infpiic this cold clod of clay which
Burnetii theory.
we carry about with us.

A dull, grofs, ilupid fellow; a dolt.
The vulgar a fcarce animated cbd.
Ne'er pleasM with aught above 'cm.

The clcdded gore.

Confifting of earth or clods ; eartfty ;
;

Move it fometimes with a broom, that the feeds
(log not together,

2.

Milton's Paradif- Regained.

As a dog, committed clufe
For fome oflfitnce, by chance breaks loofe.

Clo'dpate. »./. [clod znd pate.'] A ilupid

Clo'dpate D. adj. [from cUdj,ate.]

S'.u-

pid ; dull ; doltifh ; thoughtlefs.

My clodpadd lelations fpoiled the greatell genlu.

Wearitief. of the

jirbutbnct.

Clo'dpoll. n. /. [from clod and poll.]
a dolt ; a blockhead.
bemg fo excellently ignorant, he
;

will find that it comes from a clUftlU

Siakeff.

imagined by
Skinner to come from, log ; by Cafaubon
derived from xXo'i®-, a dog's collar, be-ing thought to be firft hung upon fierce
a.

[It is

dogs.]

der motion ; to encumber with (hackles
to impede,

by fattening to the neck or

leg a heavy piece of wood or iron.

Cloom, 'v.a. [corrupted from cleam,.

claemian. Sax. which is ftill ufed in fome.provinces.] To clofe or (hut with glutinous or vifcous matter.
Rear the hive enough to let them in, .ind doom.
up the (kirts, all but the door. Morlim. Hnfbandry^

1.

To (hut; to lay together.
Sleep inftantly fell on me, calJ'd

By nature as in aid, and clos'd mine eyes.
Milton's Paredife Loji,

When the fad wife has f/os'i/ her hulband's eyes;.

women to keep them from wet,

Lies the pale corps, not yet entirely dead

A wooden Ihoe.
France the peafantry goes barefoot; and the
middle fort, throughout all that kingdom, makes
ufe of wooden clogs,
Harvey on Confumptions.

Clo'gginess. ft./, [from cloggy.]
(late

The

Boyle's Hi/iory of Firmnefs.

CLO'ISTER. n,/. [cla', Wel(h ; claupwp, Saxon ; defter. Germ, kloofter,
claitftro,

Ital.

cloiftre.

Ft, clau-

Pope.

ftrum, Latin.]
I.
religious retirement; a monailery ;
a nunnery.

The gutter'd rocks and congregated fand?.
Traitors uQcefi'd to (log the juJltJefs keel. Siak

Nui in a ferret clcifirr doth he keep
Tbcfc vir^io fpirits uMil their inuri>ge-day.
Bavin.

A

and the fliades
Cephifa, thau

Wilt lend a hand to clofe tliy midrcfs' eyes, Philipt,
To conclude; to end; to finilh.

2.

One frugal fupper did our lludies chfc.
I clofe this with

The wings of birds were clog^d with ice and

Dut.

Of my great anceftors.

of being clogged.

and cloggy parts are retained ; or elfe much fubtilizcd, and otherwife altered.

Prior.

.>

I foon fliall vifit Heftor,

Jn

^igity on the Soul.

y

Spenfer,

'To

To CLOSE, -v. a. [clo/a, Armorick ; ilujsi.
Dutch ; clos, Fr. clau/us, Lzt,]'.

pediments, that here chg his foul's flight.

To hinder; to obftruft.

Shakefpeare.

Chain'd to a galley, yet the galley 's fi'ec. Donne.
Their prince made no othe/" ftep than rejeOing
the pojie'i fupremacy, as a clog upon his own power
and paHions,
S-wift.
Slavery is, of all things, the greatcft clog and
obftacle to fpeculation,
Smifl.

has the power of clogging up.
By additaments of fome fuch naturtr, fomegroiTer

and nnaaive.
Ttlhtjor..
Gums and pomatums (hail his flight rcftrain,
Vfhile chgg'd he beau his filken vnjngs in vain.

With eye-offending brine.

Cloke. ». /. See Cloait,
Clomb. [pret. of To c/imi.]

Hooker.

Clo'goy. adj, [from clog.] That which

Dryden,

Like a cloiflreji flie will veiled walk,

They "re our clogs, not their owp ; if a man be

anatomy.
Shakcfpeare.
Let a marfVean himfelf from thefe worldly im-

fnow.

Woiton's ArchiteS.

And water once a day her chamber round

an heavy clog to the

If you find fo much blood in his liver as will
tUg the foot of a flea, I'll eat the reft of the

Flelhly lulls do dtbafe men's minds, and ihg
their fpirits, make them grofs and foul, liftlels

2.

is

fide, and the other for thffcien.

Clo'istress. n.f. [from cloifter.] A nun ;.
a lady who has vowed religious retire-

A kind of additional ihoe, worn by

3.

4,

J. To load with fomething that may hin-

fiefli

will.

Shakefpeare' s Macbeth.

Built with periHyles or piazzas.
The Greeks and Romans had commonly two
cloijiered open courts, one ferving for the women's

A/k to what end they clomi that tedious height..

And quits his clog', but all in v^in.
He ftil'S draws aftt^r him his chain.
Huditras.
2. An encumbrance ; a hindrance ; an obIlrqdlion ; an impediment.

in die world, when they bred me a mechaniclc.

.

2.

ment.

For tliy cfcape would teach me tyranny.
To hang ckgi on them.
Shakefpeare.
1 dit^but prompt the age to quit their clogs.
By the known rules of ancient liberty.

about Michaelmas, and leave it as chddy as they
ca».
Mcrunieri liujhandry.

CLOG, f

Ere the bat hath flown.
His ckifier'd .light, there fliall be done

a weight ; any encumbrance

der motion.
I 'm glad at foul I have no other child

2. Full of clods unbroken.
Thefc lands they fow always under furrow

Solitary ; inhabiting cloifters.

A deed of dreadful note.

hung upon any animal or thing to hin-

Stak.

fellow J a dolt ; a thickflcull.

;

Walt n's Angler.

fter.]
1.

To be encumbered or impeded by fome

A load

1

grofs ; bafe.

The meagre clcddy earth to glittering gold,

S'o

Evelyn.

In wnrkinj through the bone, the teeth of the
faw will begin to clog.
Sharp's Surgery.

The glorious fun,

This letter

aftion,

Clo'ister£D, participial adj. [fromf^;-

extrinfkk matter.

Turning with fplendour of his precious eye

A thickfkull

learning and devotion, prefer contemplation before

Clog, n. f. [from the verb.]

Clo'ddy. aJJ. [from rW.}
mean

tary ; retired ; religioufly reclufe.
Upon this ground many cloijieral men, of great

clot.

Miltcn.

;

Rym r's Tragedies^:

Cho'isTERAL. adj. [from cloifter.] Soli^

•

In this fenfe,
perhaps, only corruptly ufed for clod or

Te Clod. i». a. [from the noun.] To pelt
with clods.

dowager in the nunnery of Bermondfey.
Bacon,
Nature affords plenty of beauties, tjiat no maii
need complain if thj deformed are chifler;d up,

».

To coalefce ; to adhere.

1

To Clod. 1;. n. [from the noun.] To gather into concretions ; to coagulate :
for this we fometimes ufe clot.
Let us go find the body, and from the ftrcam,
With laverr pure, and cieanBn^ herbs, wafli off

t.-.

BccoK.

It was of the king''s firft afls to cloiflcr the queen

Ray OS the Creation.

To Clog.

!

Dryden.

days,

In the following paflage it is improper, for its meaning always includes
hindrance.
Clocks and jacks, though the fcrews and teeth
of the wheels and nuts be never fo fmooth, yet,
if they be not nilod, will hardly move ; though you
clog them with never fo much weight.

Shakefpeare-,

They have by commandment, though in form
of courtefy, ckificrcd us within thefii walls for three

All the commodities are clogged vi'trk impofitions.
ylddifin.

Which God infpir'd, cannot tngethef perifh
Milicns Peradift Lnft.
"With shis corporeal chd.

muddy ; miry

Cloijier thee in fome religious houfe.

Drydf}!.

Spenjer.

a piazza.

world,

It came, but clogg'dvi'itYi fynnptoms of his death.

Do burn, that to us, wretched earthly cUds,

;

To Clo'ister. II. a. [from the noun.]
To (hut up in a religious houfe ; to con(ine ; to immure ; tjj (hut up from the^

breatli j

And ye high heavens, the temple of the gods.
In which a thoufand torches, Haming bright.

1.

Atterbury,

A periftyle

2.

Shakefp.

That chgi me with this anfwer.
Shakeffeare.
They lanc'd a vein, and watch'd returning

the body of man, compared to his foul.

6.

to embarrafs.

;

Since thou haft far to go, bear not along

Labouring, two ma0v c/sdi of iron and brafa-

5.

C L O

Dryden,

my earncft defires that you will'

ferioufly confider your eftate,

Wake's Preparation fir Death,.

Edward and Henry, now the boift of fame;
And virtuous Alfred, a more facred name;
After a life of generous toils endur'd,
Clos'd their long gl iries with a figh, to find

Th' unwilling gratitude of bafe mankind.
Pope'.' Horace,

3.

To inclof©;, to confine; to repofue.
Every one
Ac»ording to the gift which bounteoua nature

»
Hath in him clos'd.
Skaicffca't,
4. To join ; to unite fraftares ; to conlTO'*

lidate fifllircs.

The armourcre accomplifliing the knighti,
Witk tufy lj«Kim«s chftng rivets «p. Uhakejpeare,
TJy«i

.

C L O

C L O

At ev'i-y chfi (he made, th' attending throng
Replied, and bor^ t)>c burden of the fang.

14. Having an appearance of concealment J

C L O

'

There being no wtntet yet to chfit up »nd unite
and reftore die earth to iu former com-

iti pant,

Burnet.

|>a£tnef>.

Ai fooa as any pablic rupture happens, it U im-

Speedy death,

MJifia on Italy.

The ekf; of all my mifcriei and the balm. Milttn.

AU the trace* drawn there arc iinnicdialcly clofid

MM.

Tt Close. <t;. n.

To coalefce ; to join its "own parts together.
They, and all that appertained to tbemi went
down olive into the pit, and the earth ei'M upon

1.
•

them.

Nuv^itri, xvi. 33.
In plants, you may try tlie force of imagination

Thro" Syria, Herfia, Greece, (he goes ;

And takes the Romans in the ehj\:

as, a clofe box, a f/«/^houfe.

We fuppofe this bag t* be tied

.

'TemfJt.

makes thee wrong

this

tuous gehtlewoman, to chfe •with us.
'

Shakejffarc's Henry IV.
It would become hie better, than to rloft^
la terms of friendthip iriib tliinc enemies.

5.

Sng, but that it woolSThji it'i'i' the evidence. Siulh.

He look the' time wiien Kichard was depos'J,

And high and lavtwitrj happy Harry cloi'J, Dryd.
Pride

is

fo unfociable a vice, that there is

clsfirg v/ith it.

(lowly evaporate.

Neu-ton's Qpticks.

-fcody.

Such a proof as would have been

clofrd •with

certainly at the firft, ihall be fet alide ^afily after-

wards.

nvitb.

Frefnoy's cl'Jt art,

To grapple with in

Equal to all her titles that could ftand
Clofe up with Atlas, and fullain her name
As ftrong as hi doth hcav'n
Benjonfon.

Any thing fliut

;

creatures.

method of cenfuifng by the lump, and muft bring
things ckfe to the tell of true or falfe.
Burnet's The^.

Btcon.

A fmall field inclofed.
I have a tree, which grows

MUtui,
Behind her death
CUfe following pace for pace, not mounted jet

On his purple horfc.

Mil'on,^

2. It is ufed fometimes adverbially by itfelf,

but more frequently in compofition.

As,

Close-banded,

asif.
In clofe order;
thick ranged ; or fecretlj- leagued, which
feems rathei'the meaning in this paf-

fage.

Nor in the houfe, which chamber ambu(he3
Clofe-banded, durft attack me.

Mition,

Close-bodied, adj. Made to fit the body
exafUy.
If any clergy ihall appear in any clofe -hidieicoK,
they (hall be fufpcnded.
Ay.'iJfe'sParergon,

Close-handed, adj. Covetous.
Galba was very clofe-banded :

I have not read
Arhuthnot
Corns.

m

much of his liberalities.

Close-pent. adj. Shut clofe; without

ShakfJ^care.

The manner of (hutting in this and
the following fenfe it is pronounced as

Approaching

8.

e/oze.

The doors of plank were ; their c/iji exquifite,
Kept with a double key.
The time of (hutting up.
In the cl'.ft of night,
Philomel begins her hcav'nly lay.

The king went of purpoie into the North, laying an open fide unto Perkin to make him come
to trip up his heels,

having
Baccn.

made fure in Ktaf beforehand.
Bath fill'a with diift, but darting up, the third

jhk they had made.

Had net Achilles' lelf Itiiud up.

1

Narrow

10.

;

Chapman.

3.

Hilitn.

Hbakefptare.

fpace

intervening ;

Follow Fluellen chfclj at the heelt. SbtUf^art,
Attentively.
If we look more chVs, we (hall find
Mofi have the feeds of judgment in their mind.
fitpt.

Admitting fmaUdiilance.

4. Secretly; fliJy.

A

Spaniard, riding on the bay, fent fome clofely
into the village, in the dark of the night.

Carfw's Survey of CcrmueUU
5.

Clofe nbfervc him for the fake of mockery. Clofe,
in the name of Jolting! lie you there.
Shakefp,

1

h )pe I have tranlUtcd elMf enough, and given

original.
Speifer.

Some fpagyiifts, that keep their bcft things cltfe,
will do mure to vindicate their art, or oppofe their
mankind.

Without deviation.
them the fame turn of vcrfe which they had in the

Hidden; fecret; not revealed.

A iltfe inient at Lilt to fliew me grace.

Beyle.

Having the quality of fecrecy ; trufty.
Contlant you arc.

But yet a woman j auil I'm fccrefy,

No Udy clofer.

much

as, a clo/c alley.

Undifcovered ; without any token by
which one may be found.

12.

Without
nearly.

Dryden.

13.

The air, fuch pleafure lolh to lofe,
With thoufand ecclioes fiili prolongs each heavniy

2.

Short crooked fwords in cl<fer fight they wear.

1

Without inlet or outlet.
Putting the mixture into a crucible cicfelj luted,

to

antagonilh, than to gratify the curious, or benefit

i. Fiuife : cc^lktion ; reiL

6

joined one

And call in queftiun our neceiUties.
9.

1

Dryicn.

nearly ;

Pope.

Now fit we clife about this taper here.

Ctafman,

A grapple in wreftling.

(iojit

Clo'sely. adv. [from f/^.j

another.'

:

fo

Then in fome chfe-pent room it crept along,
And, fmould'ring as it went, in filencc fed. Dryi,

Boyle,

Some dire misfortune follows clofe behind.

Certain bedgers dividing a clojc, chanced upon a
great chert.
Carriu'l Survey cfCorn'wa//

and

vent.

Where'er my name I find.

here in my et^t,

And (hortly niuft 1 fell it.

ficfr,

It has the

cloftly,

Diliurb'd not, waiting tioft the approach of mom.

Plant the fpring crocufes citfe to a wall. Mwiim.

That mine own ufc invites me to cut down.

«*» the

fame meanings
and is not always ealily
diftinguiihed from the adje£tive.
1. Nearly ; denfely ; fecredy.
He his lleep
with

We mud lay aflde that lazy and fallacious

without outlet.

The admirable cft'ecfs of this diHillation in (Ufe,

f.

prifoner.

Close. aJ-v.

!

which is like the wombs and matrices of living

4.

clafe

19. Applied to the weatlier, dark; cloudy;
not clear.

!

wreftling.

3^

Pope.

Was I a man bred great as Rome herlelf.

Close. »./ [from the verb.]

•

and Dryden's native fire.

Joined without any intervening diftance
or fpace, whether of time or place.

7.

Retired ; folitary.

He kept himfelf rfc/t becaufe of Saul. Cbmicla.
18. Secluded from communication; as, a

Read tbefe inftruftive leaves, in which confpire

Atlcrbury.

Thefe governors bent all their thoughts and
applications to chje in xaitb the people, now the
ftronger party.
S'wt/t,

7.

H^ilkim.

were they clofcr, they would be crowded, and even
a due connexion would be wanting. Dryd. Juv.
Where the original is clofe, no verCon can reach
it in the fame conipafs.
Dryden,

body, and lets go the rater, to chfe ivUb the fixed

1

Concife ; brief; comprcfled ;' without
exuberance or digrefllon.
You lay your thoughts lb chfe together, that,

6.

upon iron, let:, go the wu-

the acid fpirit is more attrartcd by the fixed

Ta Close

Vifcous ; glutinous ; not volatile.
This oil, which nourifhes the lamp, is fiippofed
of fo chfe and tenacious a fubftance, that it ma)

Ctlliir af fr'unjjhip.

Tliis fpirit, poured
ter ;

no

in-

terilices or vacuities.
The inward fubrtancc of the earth is of itfelf an
uniform mafs, cloft and compafi. Burnet's Tbmry.
The golden globe being put into a prefs, which
WIS driven by the extreme force of fcrcws, the
water made itfelf way thro' the pores of that very
ckfe metal.
Locke.

vir-

Shahefprare's yuUui Cafar.
There was no fuchi iefeii in roan"s underftand-

Compafl ; folid ; denfe ; without

4.

to comply with ; to unite with.
Intire eowjrdice

Drydcn.

tion.
If the rooms be low-roofed, or full of vvindows
and doors ; the one maketh the air ckje, and not
frclb i and the other maketh it exceeding unequal.
Bacon's Natural Hifiory.

To

2.

no vent ; witltout inlet ; fecret

Confined ;' ftagnant ; without ventila-

3.

come to an
3. Ttf Close iciili.
J
To Close /« ivitl;. J agieeme<»t with ;

1.

ICtlk'mt.

fear.

a defign in us would
induce France and Holland to fkfe upan fomc
meafuret bctvvccn them to our difadvantagi^

Ltck:>

I am engaging in a large difpute, where the arguments are not like to reach clofe OQ either lide. Drji,

about, to-

To 'fcajie their eyei whom guilt had taught to

haion,

To agree upon ; to

The jealoufy of fuch

4'.

cisift

wards the window.
2. Having

the habit of attention.

16. Full to the point ; home.

upon the lighicr rootioui, as upon their elo/tng and
uptn.

Shakefpeare,

15. Without wandering; without deviation ; ^attentive.
I difeovered no way to keep our thoughti clofe to
their bufincfs, but, by frequent attention, getting

Shut fall, (o as to leave no part open ;

1

•prniiig.

join in.

.

Prnr.

Close, adj. Tfrom the verb.]

private ; not to be feen through.
Nor could his afts too c/ofe a vizard wear.

To Close

2.

fly.

That clofe afpeft of hjj
Does (hew tlie mood of a much troubled brcaft.

A condition or end.

7.

IDCiliaRly clafid up by moderation and good orBccs.

up, as chough you wrote them with your finger on
the furt'ace of a river.
tP'iitu en lit

cloudy ;

Drydtn'l Feil/t.

.

Sbakefpeare.

Dryden.

Clo'seness.
I .

at.

/ [from f/o/J.]

The ftate oi being (hut ; or, the quality of

admitting to be fliut without in-

let or outlet.

In drums, the, r/o/inr/l round about that prefervcth the found, maketh the noife come forth of
the drum-hole more loud than if yon Ihould Arike
upon the like ikio extcadcd In the open air.

iU<M°( Natural Hifiory,
2.

Narrow-

C L O
5.

CLO

C L O

8. Narrownefs ; ftraitnefs,

The parts indofing inclafure.
O thou blooJy prifan

.

Want of air, or ventilation.

Within tlic guilty chfure of thy wails
Kichard the Second here was hack'd to death.

^. 'Compaftnefs ; folidity.

'

How could partickn, fowidely difperfcd, combine
loto that cicjenifi of

.

xture ?

The hartc of" the fpiilt to put forth and the chje-

And make 3 mutual c/c/i/rof our houfe.
with

5 , Reclufenefs ; folitude ; reiiremeut.

mous blood.

Bt:n'iHtnryW\.

no forecaft or dcfign.

A peftle for his truncheon, led the van

;

And his high helmet was a (kft,fnial pan. Garth.
Clo'set. »./ [from r/o/i.J
I. A fmall room of privacy and retirement.
The taper bumeth in your cla'aSbate/fearr.
He would make a ftep into hi's chftt, and after a
3.

prayer he was gone.

whether of animal

Carcnomoretor/of/'.randeat.

or vegetable fuljDrayton.
cloths

„ ,
1. To Ihut up, or conceal, in a dofet.

^^-

-—
;.

).

ne'er didruft

While lilies flourifli, and the raven's fed. %flr/«.
Cloth, taken abfolutely, commonly

In the plural. Drefs; habit; garment;
vefture ; veftments
including whatever
:

covering is worn on the body. In this
fenfe always clothes, pronounced do's.
He with him brought Fryenc, rich arra-,'d
In Claribtllae'i cUthcs.

Dia.

to the laun.lrefs in Datchct-nicad.

The aft of (hutting up.

2. That by which anything is clofedor (hut.
1 admire your fending yout latt to me quite
open,
without a falf wafer^ oi any cU^uti whatever.
P^f* It Swift.

Sldkrfftcr.,

Strength grows moru from the warmth of exer.
cjfcs than of cloaibi.
ttmfli,

The chink was carefully clofcd up! upon which
BoyU'i Sfrinr i,f ttt Air.

'spcnjrr.

Take up thefe chtbii here quickly ; carry them

Cto'suRE. n. f. [from f/e/a.]
.

And thine with it, in iicaven's pure chthinr drcft,

V
Your LbreadJ and clothing, and every
>

The co\ering of a bed.

Cizing on her midnight foes,
Shi tutu'd each way her ftigliied head.
Then funk it deep brncath the cUttes,

.

yatrjax.

,

neced'ary of

life, entirely depend upon it.

Sivift.

Clothshe'arer. ti. /. [from doth w A:
fhear.]
One who uims the doth, an4.
levels the nap.

\

My father is a poor man, and h} bis occupation,
a clotbfheanr.

my God for cktb and bread,

means a texture of wool.
'.

»./ [from To clothe.] Drefs j.-

1 hrough clcarea Ikies might take united (light.

^cn jf/nfon,

-

.

vefture; garments.
Thy bofom might receive my yielded fpright,

Drefs ; raiment.
I'll

S-wlft.

(UJuTI there appeared not any change.

Sraunt's Bills of Mutality.

Clo't h I n

DryJcn.

Mayor of London knight.
Sir John Hayicard.
I'll make the very green cloth
to look blue./

A dlftemper in the feet of

cattle ; called alfo \ke founder.

Hanwrd.

They (hall only fpoil the clothiers wool, and begi
gar the prcfcnt fpinncis, at beft.

Any texture put to a particular ufe.

Lorrf

The heat

privately catechifed by his Majefty.

Shahffeare's Henry VIII;
„.
.
His commilfioners (hould laul'e ehthitrt
to take
wool, paying only two parts of the price.

ShaieCfi.

The king ftood up under his clotb of l>ate, took/
the fword from the protettor, and dubbed the

ff.

Of thy great love once fptead, as in an urn,

The piece of linen fpread upon a table.

This idea, which we may tall the giKlJef/of
painting and of fculpture, dcfcends upon
the marble and the clat, and becomes the
original of thefc

DryJrniFallet,

Doth ckfct up itfelf.
Utrkcrt.
2. To take into a clofet for a fecret interview.
About this time began the projeft of clcfrtirg,
where the principal gentlemen of the kingdom were

Sivift.

Shall by a painted r,Vi te kept in awe.

The crowded (helves wiih rarities of (helb.

To Clo set. v. a. [from the noun.]

Tlie clothiers all, not able to maintain
Tlie many to them 'longing, have
put olF
The fpinfters, carders, fullers, weavers.

in that

Shahfpeare.

DryJtt't Dufrefnay.

Shut. Cymielire,

Clothier.b./ [from doth.] A maker

'

^.

Priv^.

ot doth.

coftly cUlh of gold.
Spaniards buy their linen

Who fears a fentence, or an old mans faw,

..
,
He furnifliM
her ch/et firrt, and fills

1.

Drowlinefs (hall ilothe a man with rags.

I anfwcr you right painted </<,/*, from
whence
you have lludied jour queftions.

to open

,,

To furnifh or provide with clothes.

Any thing woven for drefs or covering, To Clothe, v. n. To wear clothes.

lineated.

ffoittn.

the ilofft of Minerva, where thofe fair
treafurei are to be found in all abundance.

4.

Nor let, like Narvius, every error pafs

A private repofitory, of curiofities and
valuable things.
He fliould have made himfelf a kcv, wherewith

Closh. n./.

on the Mind.

/ plural ckths or clothes.

The mufty wine, foul cloth, or greafy glafs. P'^<.
3. The canvafs on which piftures are tfe-

.

ftiort

«.

A

2.

Drydin,.
,•
r
I.
1.
l.et both ufe the cleareft language
in which they
can clothe their thoughts.
H^atn
1

'V"E''<"":

A

They leave the (hady realms of night.
And, chih'd in bodies, breathe your upper lighf.

[claS, Saxon.]

The

Pfal.

C.cfAVwith tranfcendentbrightncfs, did'ft
out(hire
Myriads though bright
AfiAon.

eWifs.

flance.

a cbncluder.

Clo'sestool. ». / [clofe and /««/.]
chamber impleinenc.

fbilitu

To become grofs.

CLOTH.

falvation.
!

Here mangled limbs, here brains and gore,

;

Jeh,
Joh.

- Jf thou beeft he ; but O ho"- fall'n how
chaiig'd
From him, who in the happy rralms of light,

which, as he breaks

dmid

Souib.

A finiflier

;

Lie dated.

greater cA/fw/i and coherence %riih one another,
than thui to drive at a cafual iiTuc, brought undrr

Pope's Statiut.

?

blood.

1.

.

me.
Hall thou clotbtd his neck with thunder

to coagulate ; to gather
into concretions : as,
milk, dotud

_

„

put on righteoufnefs, and it clcihtd

I will alfo cicthc «er priefts with

Thei-Zorrrrf glebe, the plowman haply finds,

3.

.

To invert, as with clothes.
I

2. _To concrete ;

Connexion ; dependance.

Clo'ser. n. /. [fromf/a/i.]

_,

3.

Huge unwieldy bones, lafting remains

.

to be

witli

tVifcman'! Surf^,.y.

Of that gigantick race

Cs//iVr of Frimljhif,

Our fouls alfa

chhcd with holy habits, and adorned
good works.
Hay on Creathn,
Embroiler'd purple clothes the golden beds.

are

ther.

CovetoufDefs ;

The aOions and proceedings of wife men run in

We chtbc and adorn our bodies: indeed, too

much time we beftow upon that.

To CtOT. 1'. n. [from the noun ; or irom
klotteren, Dutch.]
1
To form clots, or clods ; to hang toge-

municated with any of bis majcfty's counfeUors,
being carried with great chfcncfi, liker a bufinefs of
love than ftate.
fftnnm.
We rife not againft the piercing judgment of
ilkugudus, nor the extreme caution or cltfitup of
Tiberius.
Bacons Ejjayi.
This prince was fo very referved, that he would
Impart his fecrcts to n» body: whereupoa this
thjentfi did a little perifli his underftanding.

•

And be th' cxhauftlefs granary of a world,
thomfot,,
s. To adorn with drefs.

Bacov.
.
The opening
itfelf wai ftopt with a clot of gru-

A jaaniey of much adventure had been r.ot com-

8

O'er every land, the naked nations cLihe,

coagulation ;

The white of an egg, with fpirit of wine, doth

and he flood in the dark towards them.

the (kins of beafts.

With fuperior boon may your rich foil
Eicubcrant nature's better bleUings pour

to

Dutch,

bake the egg into cht:, as if it began to poch.

Such was his enquiry, and fuch his
aslliey flood in the light towards him,

but not open.

this thouglit into an affecbtion of ri^Jcnefs and
covetoufnefs.
MJiftn't Sftctalcr.

Concretion ;

Addijons freeholder.
time, painted their b*.

dies, and chthed thcnifelves with

grume.

To bis confederates he was conftant and juft,

fly avarice.
Irus judged, that while he could keep bis poverty a fecret, he fliould not feci it : he improved

now always applied

.

1 he Britons, in Caefar's

Shaiiff,

ufes ; or rather /(/o//^,

a mafs. ]

Shah.

6, Secrfcys privacy.

7,

but

c/od,

different

1 thuj negle^ing worldly ends, all dedicated

thjtnejt,

_,

CLOT. »./ [probably, at iirft, the fame

boughs.

Baccn's Natural Hi/lwy,

To chfetfi, and the bettering of my mind.

Stjkiffeare,

4. Conclufion ; end.
Not in ufe.
We'll hand in hand all headlong ca ft us down,

Btniky.

miji of the bark, caufc prickles in

I.

!

took my lesTe, being half-ftified by the elofentf> of the room.
Sivifi.
I

To

invert with garments ; to cover with
drefs, from cold and injuries.
An inhabitant of NcvaZcmbla having lived in
Denmark, wlicre he was chtbcJ, took tlie firft opportunity of making his elcape into nak.
dnefs.

;

Huke-wW on Providence.

Clo't POLL. n.f. [from dot And p»ll.1
Thick&ull blockhead.
\
What fajs the fellow there? calY the chtpoll

1.

;

Hak.fp.ar...
.
2. "^r^-.
Head, in ,fcorn.
I have fcnt Cloten's
clolfoll down tiie ftream.
In emlafly to his mother. Siakefptare'
s dymleline^

r« Clo'tter.c. ». [khiterea, Dutch.]''

To concrete j to coagulate

j

to gather'

into lumps.

"* ''"Se'i 'I'e trembling «rc,
.,-ji •
Slidd ring thro' clttttr'd blood and
holy mire.
Drydtn's jSfk^Ji.
Clo'ttit. adj. [fromr/«r.] Full of clods

j:

concreted ;

full of concretions.
The matter expeflorated is thin, and mixt with:

Pr'nr,

To Clothe, t'. a. pret. I clothed, ot clad
parijcip. fltthtd-, «r chd. [from dofh.]

thick, (/«(;, blui.-.'iftteaks. liarvey

onCorfunfiienU.
>\ here laid ii ck-ty, «r,d a ftuwcr if ain
loaka
through, you «.a; tutU up! of » rail to brca!;
.

,

it.

M^rtintcm

CLOUDw.

CLOUD.

V. /.

C L O

C L O

C L O

throagh the leaves. The feeond, called bitany
have flowers llriped or variegated with three or

[The derivation t» not Clo'udilt. adv. [from cloudy.^
1. With clouds ; darkly.

known. Min/hnu derives it from clauda,

to (hut ; Somner from clod; Cafaubon from
ax^vf, darknefj ; Skinner from kladdt,
Dutch, a fpot.]
I. Thv dark collection of vapours in the

plainly, by way of precepts, than ehudilj enwrapped

He was comitwindi-d to write fo ekadily by Cornutus

Sbakifp. Riebdrdm.

The ftate of being covered with clouds

1.

darknefs.

therefore a watery cloud, is nathirg elfc but a congeries of very fmall and concave globules, which

tinual cloudincfs, which in the fummer readers the
air colder,

•f eijual weight with the air, where they remain
fufpended, till, by fame motion in the air, being

Want of brightnefs.
I faw a cloudy Hungarian diamond made clearer

Tie cloven oaks and lofty pines do lie.

Rofcimmox,
Addijon.

The veins, marks, or flains, in ftones
or other bodies.
Any ftate of obfcurity or darknefa.
Tho' poets may of inl'piration boall.

3.

Their rage, ill govem'd, in the ckuds is loll. Waller,
How can I fee the brave and young
Fall in the tloudofviiT, and fall unfung ? AJdifcn.
A. Any thing that fpreads wide ; as a crowd,

1 .

2.

round hoof ; bifulcous.

As Mofes entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy

Dark ; obfcure

Exodus.

;

not intelligible.

If you content yourfelf frequently with words

DryJeitf

Great variety of water-fowl, both whole an<
elovenfooied, frequent the waters.

CLO'VER.

3.

Sheke/fiare

Nature (hall provide
Green graft and fattening clovtr for their fare.
Dryden.
Clover improves land, by the great quantity of
Monimer's Hujlandry.
cattle it maintains.

Gloomy of look ; not open, nor cheer-

My Blouzelinda is the blithed lafs.

So my (lorm-bcaten heart likewife is chcer'd

Than primrofe fweeter, or the clover-grafs. Cay,

With that fun-fl-.ine, when cloudy looks are-clcar'd.
Sfenfer.

and gloomy ap-

pearance.

Witnefs my fon, now in the (hade of death,
Whofe bright outlhining beams thy(/W^ wrath

Hath in eternal darknefs folded up.
Marked with fpots or veins.
5. Not bright, wanting luflre.

Sbakeffeare.

faw a cloudy diamond.

Boyle.

7». /.

.

ful.

To darken with clouds ; to cover with
clouds ; to obfcure.

Ray on tie Crejt,

[mora properly
Clo'vbr-crass.J clover idxps-HtSix.}
A fpecies of trefoil.
I
The even mead, that erft brought fweetly forth
The freckled cowflip, burnct, and green cfctw.

H^atis on the Mind.

nefs be !

To make of fullen

There are the bifulcous or cloven-hoofed i at CI«
Sroivn's fulrar Errtum
The cloven-foeted fiend is banilh'd trom us.

jnels and beavers.

inllead of ideas, «r with cloudy and confufed notions of things, how impenetrable will that dark-

Vo Cloud, v. d. [from the noun]
"

the foot divided into two paits ; not a,

foon (hall view in ctoudkfs Ikies,

pillar dcfcended, and flood at the door.

2.

Dryden.

minous ; lightforae ; pure ; undarkened.

Clo'u Dv. adj. [from deud.']
Covered with clouds ; obfcurcd with
1
clouds; confining of clouds.

a mtihittide.
Theobjeftion comes to no mor« than this, that,
amangft a cicud of witnefles, there was one of no
jiittrbmy.
very good reputation.

The cloven helm, and arch of viftory.

When next he looks through Galilaeo's eyes. Pofi.
How many fuch there muft be in the vail extent
of fpace, a naked eye in a cloudlefs night may give
Cbeyr.e.
us fome faint glimpfe.

The dawn is overcall, the morning low'rs.

To live in Clover, is to live luxuri-

z.

oufly ; clover being extremely delicious

and fattening to cattle.
Well, Laureat, was the night in clovtr fpent }

4.

Be not dilhcarten'd then, nor cloud thofc looks,
That wont to be more cheerful and fcrenc. Miliav.
What fullen fury clouds his fcnrnfiil brow Pofe.
3. To obfcure ; to make lefs evident.
If men would not exhale vapours to ckud and
!

darken the cleared truths, ns man could niifs his
way to heaven for want of light. Decay ofPiitJ,
variegate with dark veins.
4.
The hand'e fmooth and plain,

1

Made of the clouded olive's eafy grain.
Pof'i.
^0 Cloud, v. n. To grow cloudy ; to grow
dark with clouds.
Clo'udeerr Y. n.f. [from (loud 2inA berry ; cham<emorus.'\ The name of a plant,
called alfo knotberry.

Gyon's angry blaJs fo fierce did play

On th' other's helmet, which as Titan (hone,
That quite it cltve his plumed crell in tway.
Fairy ^een.

Cloudcompe'llinc./k^'. [A word formed in imitation of rifiiXnyfVsTti;, ill underflood.] An epithet of Jupiter, by whom
clouds were fuppofed to be coUcded.
Health to both Ui<igs, attended with a roar
Of cannons, ccchoM from th' atlrighted (hore ;

With loud refemklance of his thunder, prove
Bacchui the feed of chudccmfelliitg Jove,

fyalter

Supplicating iBove

Tij juft complaliit li) thidstm^elling Jove. Drjd,

Flocks thick-nibbling thro' the cltver'd vale.
Thov.fin,

[clouih, Saxon.] The
In compolition,
cleft of a hill ; a clitt.

Clouch. h. f.
a hilly place.

fimilitode of a clove to a nail. ]

1.

It is the fruit or

in the Eaft Indies.

feed of ^ very Urge tree.

^

when fold by retail.

be the rudiment or beginning of
a friiit growing upon dove-trees.
Clo-ve fecms to

Bro^itn's Vulgar Errcun.

2.

lowance of two pounds in every hundred
weight for the turn of the fcale that
the commodity may held out weight

A valuable fpice brought from Ternate

Clo'udcapt. aJj. [from cloud vnA cnp.^

Yea, all which it inherits, fiiall difTolve. Stakc/f.

with clover.

CLOVE, a. /. [clou, Ft. a nail, from the Clouch. «. / [In commerce.] An al-

Miller.

Toppedwithclouds; touching thedouds.
The cloudccpt towers, the gcrgeous palaces.
The folemn temples, the great globe itfelf.

Ogle.

Clo'verbd. fli^'. [fiom clever.] Covered

Clove, n./. [the preterite of cleave.] Sec
Ta Cleave.

To

Waller^

A chap-fallen beaver, loofdy hanging by

clouds ; clear ; unclouded ; bright ; luThis Partridge

Ho«' vapours, tum'd to clouds, obfcure the Iky
And claudi, diiTolv'd, the tbirfty ground fuupiy.

Sbakejfeare.

Clo'ven-footed. ladj. [cloven zn6 foot
[from elouJ. ] Without Clo'ten-hoofed.
or hoof.] Having
J

Clo'udless. ezdj.

furface of the Mrth; for a cloud is nothing but a
mill flying high in the air, as a mill it nothing
Lackt.
fcut a cUud here below.

And heavily in clouds brings on the day.

There is Aulidius, lill you what work he makes

by lying in a cold liquor; wherein, he affirmed,
that upon keeping it longer, the (lone would lofe
Scyle.
more of its cloudinefs,

Crno's Cofmotojia.

all

8.

and in the winter warm.

Among your cloven army.
Now heap'd high

s

Miller,

Clo'vzk. fart, fret, [ftorn cleave.] See
To CLEAVE.

Harvey on Confutnft'iom.
2.

fome having very little

fcent, when compared with the true fort.

Shaktff.

The (ituation of this illand expofes it to a con-

jthercfore afccnd, to that height in which they arc

ClouJi are the greatcft and moft confiderablc of
the meteors, as furnilhing water and plenty to
the earth. They confift of very fmall drops of
water, and are elevated a good'dillance above the

dilTer greatly in goodnefs ;

You have fuch a February face,
So full of froft, of ftorm, and cloudiness.

tuljs, which thdrefore dtfcend ; io a vapour, and

together, as in rain.

Of each of
per fide, and are white underneath.
The
thefe cbflTes there are numerous varieties.
true clove-gillyflower has been long in ufe for making a cordial fvrup. "There are two or three varietiei commonly brought to the markets, whick

Drydtn.

.

Clo'udiness. n.f. [from cleudy.'\

As a mill i« a multitude of fma'.i but folid glo-

broken, they defcend in folid drops ; either fmall,
in a mill ; »r bigjcr, wlien many of them run

Sftenfer.

in allegories.

air.

Now are the cluijs, that lowerM upon our houfe,
In the deep balbm of the ocein b'^rieJ.

The third ate piquettet |
four difl^erent colours.
tliefe flowers liave always a white ground, and ar8
fpotted with fcarlot, red, purple, or other colours,
'i'h* fourth are called painted ladies t thefe have
their peuls of a red or purple colouT on the up-

Obfcurely ; not perfpicuoufly.
Some had rather have good difcipline delivered

2.

CLOUT. ». / [clue, Saxon.]
1. A cloth for any mean ufe.
His garment nought but many ragged chuti.
With liorns together pinn'd, and patched was.

Some of the parts into which garlick
feparatcs, when the outer (kin is torn
off.

cluve,

[In this fenfe it

is

Sfenfer,

derived from

A clout upon that head.

the preterite of cleaiie.]

Where late the diadem flood.

'Tis mortal frn an onion to devour;
Each clove of garlick is a facred power. Tale^s jfuv.

Clove-cillyplower.

».

/

[from its

fmelling like cloiet.]

3.

I.

The clove-gillyflower,

or carnation,

a.

louri only,

aad

their ftripcs large,

(oing

Anciently, the mark of white cloth at

which archers Ihot.
He drew a good bow

The

<ittitc

Swijim

A patch on a (hoe or coat.

2.

This geirus maybe divided into three clafTes

The carnation,
pink.
3. The fweet William.
or clove-p,illyflower, are diftinguilhed into four
clalTes.
The 6rll, called flakes, having two co-

Shakefpoarc,

In pow'r of fpittle and a cUul,
Whrtrc'er he plcafe, to blot it out.

;
he (hot a fine (hoot ; he
would have clapt in the clcuf at twelve fcote, Stak.

4.

An iron plate to keep an axle-uee from
wearing.

C L O

C L U

Clout, -b. a. [from the noun.]
To patch ; to mend coarfel y.

ft!
1.

recles,

Anfwer'd my ftens too loud.

Shakejpcare.

3.

By bare imagination of a feaft ?

To join awkwardly or coarfely toge-

To Club.

a-,

Norpinch'd with want, norrfoy V with wanton eafe.

Jlfcbam.

Plums a.od dlreftors, Shylocfc and his <Vife,
Will c/uiThelr tellers now to take your life.

Pope.
Fibres being diftinft, and impregnated
by diftinft fpirits, how Ihould they club
their particular

informatjons into a common idea >
Cillier on

Cluehea'ded. adj.

Intemperance in eating and drinking, inftcad of
delighting and fatisfying nature, doth but
load apd

coagulated : corruptly ufed for clotieti.
I've kai her ikim the douicd cream,
And prcfs from fpongy curds the milky ilream. Gay.

Small cluhhcaded antcrinse.

of ancient days.

the law of .irms.
The enemies of our happy eftablilhment feem t»
have recourfe to the laudable method of cluhlatu,

Pope.

2. It feeras to have, in the following paf-

:

as, a clout crly fellow.

fage, another fenfe
the beak together.

The fingle wheel plough is a vtry ckuterly fort.
Mortimer's Hujhandry.

:

Derhew..

tion by force ;

Tilhtfon.
Settle, cloy'd with cuftard and with praifc.

Is gather'd to the dull

Thought,

and head.]

Clubla'w. n.f. [cltibs.r\Alniv.] Regula-

''"y"'^-

Clo'iiterly. adj. [probably by corruption from louttrly.^ Clumfy ; awkward

[dub

Having a thick head.

Rofcomtnar.

;

S-wift.

reckoning.

'Sbakcfpeare.

plcafe,

fCinrf

To pay to a common

a.

Whofe little (lore her well taught mind does

Many fentences of cue meaning clouteil up toge-

Clo'uted. participial adj. Congealed

Cluhb'd for a feather to his hat.

up what he had more tlian enough inculcated
before, he fometimes clcys his
readers inf.ead of fatlsfymg them.
Dryden.

ther.

.

The owl, tlie raven, and the bat,

Continually vary'ng the fame fenfc, and taking

Spinfcr.

*'«'•

To make that gentle viand, fyllabub.

gidmy.

Who ca-. cloy the hungry edge of apoetite

Treads on it daily with his chulctt Otoon. Milton.
To cover with a cloth.
Milk Tome unhappy ewe,

Whofc chutr-d leg her hurt doth (hew.

Let fugar, wine, and creaaj together cluh.

"

The very creed of Athanafius, and that facrcd
hymn of glory, are reckoned as fuperfluitics, which
we niurt in any cafe pare away, left we cloy God
with too much fcrvice.
Ihoker.

Th- dull (wain
2.

though he were very !mt>at!ent of long de-

liberations.

thought he /lepr, and put
(hated brogues from off my feet, whofc rudcnefs
1

My

C L U

when they find all other means for enforcing
abfurdity of their opinions to be inelfcftual.

perhaps to ftrike

tlie

Mdifon'i Freeholder

Clu'broom. ».
[club and room.] Tho
His royal bird
[imagined by 5,f/nwr and
Prunes the immortal wing, and clyt his beak.
room in which a club or company af,
Junius to be contracted from colonus. It
As when his god is pleas'd,
Shalejfe.,re.
fembles.
ieems rather a Saxon word, corrupted 3. To nail up guns, by ftriking
"Thele ladies refolvcd to give the
a fpike
pifiures of
from loiun; hen, Dut. A word nearly of
into the touch-hole.
their deceafed hulbandt to the clubrcom.
the fame import.]
Clo'yless. adj. [from cloy.] That of
Addifon'i Speffator.
\. A ruftick ; a country fellow; a churl.
which too much cannot be had; that ToCLtJcK. 'V.n. [cloccian, WeKh; clochat,
He came witii all his dnvns, hoifed upon cartArmorick cloccan,Sax. klocken, Dut.]
which cannot caufe fatiety.
J'"!!'/
,"
Sidney.
To
call chickens, as a hen.
£picurean cooks
httkiens,
1
a boift'rous, nide, ungovern'd crew.
Sharpen with tkylefs fauce his appetite.
She, poor hen, fond of no fecond brood.
Shaicfp.
With lunous halte to the loud fummens flew.
Has cluch'd thee to the wars. Sbakefp. Coriolanus.
Cloyment, n.f. [from cloy.] Satiety;
Dryden.
Ducklings, though hatched by a hen, if (he
,
repletion beyond appetite.
2. A coarfe, ill-bred man.
brings them to a river, in they go,
though the
•'^'^s
their love may be called appetite
In youth a coxcomb, and in age »
hen
or
r\ ir t
CLOWN,

/

n.f.

;

;

.

;

clown. Spea.
country fquire, rcprefented with no
other vice
but that of being a clown, and having
the provin-

That fuffers furfeit, ckymcnt, and revolt.

CLUB. n.f. [from clivppa, Wellh

cial accent,
'^sv.ift.

Clownery, ». /

[from f/ew».] HI.
breeding; churl ilhnefs; rudenefs;
bru-

^
Clo r wnish.

.

1.

adj.

with the ftrokc of a cM.

aloud
neighbourhood.

Coarfe ; roogh ; ragged.

"*

But with his clownijh hamis their

He br>,(hcth ofr.

2,

tend:-r wines

pride.

3.

paid by the company in jull proportions.
?

A

tuddling couple fold ale: their hum 'ur Was
to drink drunk, upnn their own
liquor : they laid
down their club, and this they called f ,rcing a

'^

Clumfy ; ungainly.
With a grave look, in this odd equipage,

The climinip miinick traverf -s the Ilage.

Prior.

Clo'wn.shly.

ad-v.
[from cloiunip.^
Coarfely; rudely; brutally.
CtowNisHNHSs. n.f. [itom do-uimjh.y
1. Rufticity; coarfenefs;
unpoiifhed rude-

"a'''"

4.

Even his Dorick dialeft ha, a„
incomparable
If the boy ffiould n.ttnake
leg, very gracefully,
a dancmg mafter will cure

and wipe

2. Incivility; brutality.

to nail up ';

to (top tip.
I.

To latiate

'^

An aflembly of good fellows, meeting
under certain conditions.
What riylit has any man to meet in faftious
Dryd. Medal. Dcd.

Concurrence; contribution; jointcharge.
He 's bound to vouch them for his own,
And general club of all the nation.

Te Clud. -v.n. [from the noun.]
1.

To

contribute to a common
in fettled proportions.

Hudibrau

expence

to fate ;

to fill beyond de-

'° fi" t° loathing,
thofc fp«chc. had not

chjed Py.

calls

keep them out.

to

Ray on the Creaior.

Clump, n.f. [formed from /;/«/.]
1. A niapelefs piece of
wood, or other
matter, nearly equal in its diraenfioni.

A

duller of trees ; a tuft of trees or
ihrubs ; anciently a plump.
Clv M y s. n.j.
numbfcull.
Skinner.

A

Ci,u'msily. adv.

[from cliim(y.] Awkwithout readineft ; without nirablenefs ; without grace.

wardly

;

He walks very clumjily and ridiculoudy.

_This

-Ray on the Creation,
lofty humour is clutnfly and inartificially

managed, when affected.

Collier on Pride,

wardnefs ; ungainlinefs ; want of rcadi-

nefs, nimblencfs, or dexterity.

The drudging part of life is chiefly owing t«
clumjinejs and i-norance,

which either wants prop«r

tools, or (kill to ufc them.

Collier on Farr.e.

CLU'MSY. adj. [This word, omitted in
the other etymologifts, is rightly

derived

by Bailey from lompjch, Dutch, ftupid.
In Englifh, lump, dump, lumpijh, cLimpijh, dimpijhh, clumjily, dumjy.]
Awkward heavy ; artlefs ; unhandy ; with;

out dexterity, readinefs, or grace. It
i»
ufed either of peribns, or aftions,
or
things.

The matter duftile and fequacious, apt to be
moulded into fuch (hapes and machines, even by

To join to one effea ; to contribute feparare powers to one end.
Till gralfer atoms, tumbling in the
Urcam

Of fancy, madly met, and clubh'd into a dream.
_

;

T.'
^u''*^"' '
n,. le„8d,
of
,

VEjIrange.

,

Th<,' got b" rmplicite genci..tion.

2.

Clown', Mustard, n.f. An herb.
Dia.
To CLOY. -v. a. [enclpuir. Fr.

rr

cA(ii to vilify the government?

5.

nefs.

that defc«,

P-^pe.
r„
[From
cleopan, to divide. Skinner.]

and

The fliot or dividend >)f a reckoning, Clu'msiness. «./ [from clumfy.] Awk-~

3. Uncivil ; ill-bred ; ill-mannered.

4.

The name of one of the fuits of cards.
The ilubi black tyrant fird lu-r viflim died,
Spile of his haughty mien and barb'rous

"

Spinfer'i Fain, Sueen.

What if we ellay'd to fteal
The clovini/h fool out of jour father's court

Haytaard.

Arm'd with a knotty club another came. Dryd.

Young Silvia beats h-r breail, and cries

2.

Out of the earth.
Spenfe,'! Fairy fluccn.
As he pulled off his helmet, a butcher (lew him

Confifting ol rullicks or clowns.

clucks

2.

He (trove his combreJ tlub to quit

ill-

[from clown.]

tor fuccour from the clm>mjh

kluppel,

fence.

L'EJIrangt.

'

.

and

;

Shakifp.

Dutch.]
A heavy ftick ; a llafF intended for of-

J

tality.

The fool', conceit had both clownery

:

No motion of the liver, but the palate.

A

clamjy lingers.

jj^^,.

But thou in clumfy verfe* unlick'd, unpointed.
Haftltamefullydefy-d.
Dryden,
That clumjy outfide of a porter,

How could it thus conceal a courtier ?

Siuift.

Dryden.
tvcry part of the body feems to ilub and contri-

Clung. The preterite and participle of

bute to thp feed
elfe why (hould parents, born
i
blind or deaf, fomi-timci
jjencratc childrcu with the
Mme impeiltitioaa i

Clung, adj. [clun25u, Sax.] Wjiftedwith

j^^y.

ding.
leanncfs ; ftjrunk up with cold.

Uu

79

C O A

C O A

C L U

*

TVCtuMft. v.n. [clinjan. Sax.] To dry
as wood does, when it is laid up after
it is cut." See To Clinc.

CLU'STER. »./. [dyrrep. Sax. klijier,
Dutch.]

A bunch ; a number of things of the

I .

fame kind growing or joined together.

M

winter,
Grapes will continue frelh and moid
if you hang them clujltr by clufter in the roof of a
Bacon.
warm room.
A fwelling knot is raisM ;

Wience, in fljort fpace, itfclf t!>e clujler (hows,
Anil from earth's moiilure, mixtwith fun-beams,
Dtnbam,
grows.
The faline corpufcles of one liquor do varioufly
aft upon the tinging corpufclca of another, fo as to
make many of thera afibciate latoaclufier, whereby

two Ui.ifparen: liquors may conipole a coloured
Ncwttu.
one.
An elm was near, to whofe embraces led,
2.

The curling vine her fwelling cluften fpread. Popi.
A number of animals gathered together.

Hands,

3.

in

a

cruelty.

Your greedy flav'ring to devour,
Jludibrts,
Before 'twas in your clutches pow'r.
Set up the covenant on crutches,
'Gainft thofe wlio have us in their clutcbn, Uudih,
1 muft have great leifure, and little care of myfelf, if I ever more come near the clutches of fufh a

Po«r forth their populous youth about the hive
Milicn's faradije LcJI.

In clujltn.

Therewith their dafping feet together clung,
And a long chfiir horn the laurel hung. Drydcn.
body of people collefted : ufed in
3.

A

contempt.

We lov'd him

but like bea.ls,
And coward nobles, gave way to your clujitrs.
Sbaktjpeari.
did hoot him out o' th' city.
friend teok his ftation among a clujltr o{
mob, who were making tbe'mfelves merry with
;

Who
My

Mdifin.

their betters.

T« Clu'ster. f. n. [from the noun.]
To grow in bunches to gather into

Coach-man. «./ [<-o<jfA and »»«».] The
driver of a coach.

Thy nags, the leaned things alive.
So very hard thou lov'd to drive ;

CLU'TTER. n,f, [See Clatter.] A

I

noife ; a buftle ; a bufy tumult ; a hur-

ry ; a clamour.

He faw what a clutter there was

Forth f. -.iih'd thick the c!iJ}mKgy\ae.
Great father Bacchus, to my fong repair
For clujlcrir.g grapes are thy peculiar caie. Drydcn.
Or from the foreft falls the clujiir'd fnow,

Tbamfin's ffintcr.

Myriads of gems.
Ttf Clu'ster. -v. a.

TocoUeft any thing

with huge,

her chariot near the body of her king.

To COA'CT. T. «. [from

To aft together

Is very humourfomc, and makes great clutter,
Till he has windows on his bread and butter. King.

Cluster crape. »./. [from clu/er And
grape."]
currant, or tlujiergraft ; which 1 reckon the forwarded of the black fort. Mcrlimcr's Uujhandry.

Clu'stery. adj.

Tim, why all this clatter ?

To CLUTCH. V. a. [of uncertain etymolagy. ]

To hold in the hand ;

to gripe ; to

grafp.
Is this a dagger I fee before me.

The handle tow'rd my hand ? Come, Ictmer/u/ri
thee.

.

Sheiefftare.

They,

Like moles within us, heave and call about j
And, till they foot and chub their prey.

They never cool.

Herbert,

To comprize to grafp.
A man may fet the poles together in his head,
;

and clutch the whole globe at one intcUeftual gtafp.
Collitr on Thought,

3. Tocontraft ; to double the hand, fo as
to feize and hold faft.

Net that I have the power to cktcb my hand,
When hSs fair angels would falute my palm.
Shairjptare^s King yohn,

Ch;tch. »./ [from the verb.]
The gripe

grafp; feizure.
;
a. Generally, in the plural, the paws, the
talons.
It was the hard fortune of a cock to fall into
L'Rfinmge,
tb« (iuubti lil a cat.

Not

to aft in concert.

?

If nature relieves by a diarrhoea, without finking
the ftrength of the patient, it is not to be ftopt,
but promoted gently by emollient clyjlers, Arhuth.

COACE'RVATE.

To

Latin.]

a».

a,

[coacewo,

To heap up together.

It had the
;
though its command over them was perfuafive
and political, yet it had the force of coafiion, and

pelling ; compulfory ; reftriftlve.

The collocation of the fpirits in bodies, whe-

Coacerva'tion. »./. [from coacer'vate.']
The aft of heaping, or ftate of being
heaped, together.
The fixing of it is the equal fpreading of the
tangible parts, and the clofe ct,accrvation of them.

Bacon's Natural Hiftcry,

the Hungarians,

by whom this vehicle

is faid to have been

invented. Minfreiu,']

A carriage of pleafure, or ftate, diftinguifticd

The Levitical priefts, in the old law, never arrogated

2,

Thracius coaJjutant, ajid the roar
Philips,
Of fierce Euroclydon.
Coadju'tor. n.f. [from con andadjutor,

A

I Ihould not fuccced in a projeft, whereof I have
had no hint from my predeccflbrs the poats, or
Dryden*
their feconds or coadjutors the criticks.

Pope,
Suppofe that laft week my coach was within
an inch of overturning in a fmooth even way,

Away the friendly coadjutor flies. Garth's Difp,
A gownman of a different make.

Sv'ifl.

To

Whom Pallas, once Vaneda's tutor.
Had fix'd on for her coadjutor.

carry in a coach.

The needy poet flicks to all he meet!,
Coacb'J, carted, trod upon ; nowr loofc, now faft.
And carry 'd oft' in fome dog's tail at lad. Pope.
CoACH-BOX. n, /, [coetch Btni iox.J The
feat on which the driver of the coach

z,

Swift,

[In the canon law.] One who is impowered or appointed to perform the
duties of another.

A bifhop that is unprofitable to his dlocefe ought
to be dcpofed and no coadjutor afligncd him.

jiyi,

CoADju'vAHCY. n. f, [from con and ad-,

fits.
:

when one was

in the ccachhx, if the coach fwung but the lead
to one fide, flie ufed to fliriek.
Artuthnoi's HiJIory of John Bull.

CoACH-HiRE. n, /, Money p^d for the
ufe of a hired coach.

You exclaim as loud a^ thofe that pralfe.
For fcraps and coach-hire, a young noble's plays.
Drydcn,

My expcnces ia aacb-hire make no fmall arSpc^ator,

Coach-house, n. / {^ccach and hon/e,']
The houfe in which the coach is kept

Help ; concurrent help ;
contribution of help ; co-operation.

ju-vo, Lat.]

Crydal is a mineral b^dy, in the difference of
done?, made of a lentous percolation of earth,
drawn from the modpureand limpid juice thereof;
owing to the coldncfs of the earth fome concurrem-e
and coadjuvancy, but not immediate determination
and efficiency.

Brown's Vu'gar Errnrs.

Coaduni'tion. «. / [from con, ad,
unitio, Lat.] The conjunftion of different fubftances into one mafs.
Bodies fcem to have an intiinfick principle' of,
or corruption from,

the craduniticn of particles

endued with contrary qualities.

from the weather.
Let him lie in the ftable or the ctacb-btufe.
Siuift.

Coach-maker. »./. [coaci zad mahr.]
The artificer whofe trade is to make
coaches.

Lat.]
fellow-helper ; an affiftant ; an aflbciate ; one engaged in the afCftance of
another.

A better would you fix ?

ticle.

Obfolete.

Imagination,

attended for her in a coach, to carry
Sidney.
her abroad to fee fome fports.

Her father had two coachmen

Raleigh,

Afting in concurrence.

Shahcfp,
With what's unreal thou ccaUivc art.
Coadju'ment. n./, [from «« and adjumtntum, Lat.] Mutual afliftance. Dla.
Coadju'tant. n.f. [from con MiAeidjulo,
Lat.] Helping; operating.

I .

and drawn by very gentle horfes.

unto themfelvcs any temporal or coaflive

power.

from a chariot by having feats

fronting each other.

South'

dcfpotical.

Cofi'cTivE, ac/J, [from «<j<5.]
1. Having the force of reftraining or im-

ther the fpirits be coaceniate or diftufed.
Bacon's Natural Hifiory,

[fxom clufter. 1 Growing ,To Coach, f. a. [from the noun.]

in clufters.

South,

and eia.\

Shall I not lye in publilhing a truth ?
Siaiefp»
Stvifi.
Why ever in>thefe raging fits
[coa^ut, Lat.] ComTo Clu'tter. 'v,v, [from the noun.] To Coa'ction. «. /.
pulfion ; force, either reftraining or immake a noifc, or buftle.
pelling.
Cly'ster. »./ [x^l'^V] An injeftion
paflions in perfefl fubjeftion
and

Then give humility a coach and fix.

The fmall black grape is by fome called the

;

con

ufed.
But if I tell how thefe two did coaB,

Bafilius

into bodies.

Pri'.r,

She commanded her trembling coachman to drive

L'EJk-ange.
over- grown pots, pans, and fpits.
The fav'rite child, that jull begins to prattle,

Prithee,

heard thy anxious coachman fay.

It cod thee more in whips than hay.

A low word.

COACH ». / [coche, Fr. kotczy, among
Mi/uit.

bunches ; to congregate.

I.

:

bought, and probably the ctacb-ttiakerv'sU conCdcr
Swift,
you.

Stillingjifct,

giant.

;

2.

Her chariot is an empty haicl-nut,

Made by the joyner Squirrel, or old Grub,
Time out of mind the furit% eoacbmaiert, Siaim
get a new fet
Take care of your wheels

into the anus.

As bees

1.

of rapacity and

fcnfe

llalc's Origin rf Mankind,

To COAGME'NT. v,

a. [from cen and
To congregate or heap
agmcn, Lat.]
I have only found the partitogether.

ciple in ufe.

HaJ

C O A
Had

C O A
We

pofcJ fortuitous jumble, this hypothefis had been
Gl.m'vuk,
tolerable,
'2,

3.

Stones that are ricii in vitriol, beiag often
drenched with rain-watei, tlie liquor will then extraft a 6ae and traalrarent fub:Unce, coagulahh

as,

Roafted in wrath and fire,
And thns o'erfiied with ccegulatt gore.- Shaitff.

Bacon^s Ntiiurjl Iiy^try.
Bitumen is foand in lumps, or coaguUftit maOirs,
fFccJwerd'i /Vetura/ Hijicry.
in fome fprings.
The millc in tlie ilomach of calves, whuh is
coagylatcd by the runner, is again diO'wlved and
tendered fluid' by the gall in the duodenum.
ylrbuthmt.

other.
In a clock, the hand is moved upon the dial,
the beil is ftruck, and the other aftlons belonging
to the engine are performed, by virtue of the iizc,
(hape, bignefs, and tM^.c(w/j of the feveral parts.

Boyle.

The fame method makes both profe and verfe

Doth belch out flames, and rocks in pieces broke.

beautiful, which confifts in the judicious «fl/'f«(;o»
and ranging of the words.
Broome.

And ragged ribs of mountains molten new,
Enwrapt in coal-ilaik clouds and filthy fmoke.

To COA'RCT.
I -v. a. [coar3o. LaTo COA'RCT ATE. | tin.]
1
To ftraiten ; to confine into a narrow

Fairy ^jeert.
Ethiopians and n^rocs become co.il-bIack from
fuliginous cfflorefccncies, and complexional tinc-

Bniun.

His legs and flowing tail were white alone. Drydev.

compafs.
The wind finding the room in thS form of a

CoAL-Box. »./. [coal and iox.] A box to

trunk, and coarliatid therein, forced the ftones of
the window, like pellets, clean through it. Bacon,

^

Coal-black his colour, but like jet it flione;

carry coals to the fire.

As tile fubftance of ccaguhiions is not merely
fatine, nothing dinblves them but what penetratci

and relaxes at the fame time.

Coa'gul ATIVE.

CoA t-pisH.».y. [a/elluj niger.] A fpecies
of beardlefs-gadiis.

jirttilhnot.

[from congulate.]
That which has the power of caufing
aJj.

Coal-mine. ti. /.

Coacula'tor.

n. f.

which expel the mnft fluid parts, as in the cafe of
incraflating, or thickening ;

'

Co:>l-J>one flames eafily, and burns freeiy; but
holds and endures the fire much longer than coal.

Wood'ward.
[coal and ix'ark.]

coalery ; a place where coals are found.
There is a vaft treafurc in the old Englifh, from
whence authors may draw conrtant fupplies as our
officers make their furcft remits from the coal-m:rki
and the mines.

more ealilj than in any other diredlion ; of aglofly
hue, foft and friable', not fufible, but eafily inflammable, and kaving a large refiduum of affics.

HilUn Fojil,.
But age, enforc'd, falls by her own confent ;
,
A« iciti to allies, when the fpijit's ijient, Dcnham.

Feltcv.

Co'ALERy. n. /. [from coal.]

is found in the northern
ountics ; hard, gbfly, and light, apt to cleave
into thin flake*, and, when kindled, yields a continual blaze till it be burnt out.
Ciamten.

Cm.'j are folid, dry, opjiic, InRammabfc fubftanccs, found in large ftijta, Iplitting horizontally

3.

A place

Eleilion

I.

;

not feparated from impu-

rities or bafer parts.
I feel

Of what coarfe metal ye are molded.

Not foft or fine

2.

:

Shakefpeare.

ufed of cloth, ofwhidx

the threads are large,
3.

Rude; uncivil; rough of manners.

4. Grofs ;

not delicate.

'Tis not the coarfer tye of human iaw
That binds their peace.
Tbomfon,
5.

Inelegant ; rude ; unpolifhed.
I'raif: of Virgil is agalnit myfelf, for prefuming

to copy, in

To unite in mafles by a fpontaneous
When vapours arc railed, th'^y hinder not the
tranfparency of the air, being divided into parts
too fmall to caufe any reflection in their fuperficies;
but whe« thc|r begin to atltfce, aa4 conHitute

oppofed not only to coailion, but

Not refined

1

[coakfco, Latin.]

approximation to each other.

is

to coarSiation, or determination to one.

Biai!tl;aIU

lVv'.ihj:ard.

To COALE'SCE. -v. n.

much, provided

COARSE, adj.

where coals are dug.
Two fine ftala£lits were found hanging from a
black ftunc, at a defcrtcd vault in Benvi ell cowry.

the artery never fo

Reftraint of liberty,
alii)

j

which

narrow

Contradion of any fpace.
Straiten

A

The common foliile fewel.
dug out of the earth, ferving for fcArel, common
in Europe, though the Englilh coal is of raoft

to a

the fides of it do not meet, the vtlfel will continue
to beat, below or beyond the coarSalion,
Raj,

A

Coal-stone. ». /. [coal zni Jfone.]
fort of cannel coal.
See Coal.

Dut. kul, Danilh.]

One fpecic» of pit-cnal is called camil,

2.

A

leaf of the polypody kind, found in the {inking of a coalpit.
fVocdicard.

C<M/is a black, fulphurous, inflammatory matter,

rellraint

The greateft winds, if they. have no coardation,
or blow not h )ilow, give an interiour found. Bacon*

great depth, for digging coals.

and by thofe things

Confinement ;
fpace.

Coal-pit. »./ [from <roa/ and ///.] A
pit made in the ear-th, generally to a

COAL. n. f. [col. Sax. kol. Germ. koU, CoAL-woRK. n. f.

or eatKle coal,

1.

Mortimer.

which fuck up fome of the fluid parts, as abforb*""•
Arhuthmt.

yiylife.

A Coarcta'tion. tt./. [from coar^.]

Springs injure land, that flow from coal-mine!.

[from coagulate.]

humours, are thofe things

far.

'

[coal and miKe.]

mine in which coals are dug; a coal-

That which caufes coagulation.
Ccagulatirs of the

'

To contrad power ; to reftrain.
If a man coarcit himldf to the extremity of
an 3&, he mi;ft blame and Inipute it to himfelf,
that he has thus coarflcd or ftraitened himfelf (a

'

pit.

concretion, or coagulation.

To manifeft the caagulative power, we haTC
fometimes in a minute arrefled the fluidity of newmilk, and turned it into a curdled fubftance, only
by dexteroufly mingling with it a few drops of good
oil of vitriol.
B^le,

2.

Leave a pail of dirty water, a ctal-iac, a bottle,
a broom, and fuch otlicr unfightly things. Svuift.

The body formed by coagulation.

repute.

.•:.

a coal.
As burning /Etna, from his boiling ftew.

lated.

t .

Or coaly Tine, or ancient hallow'd Dee. Milton.

Camden.

turci.

Containing

Coapta'tion.
f. [from con and aftc,
Lat.] The adjullnicnt of parts to each

in the higheft degree ; of the colour of

driven over into the receiver, did tliere coagulutc
into a whitiflj body, almoll like butter.
Boyle,

Beniley.

[from ccal.]

adj.

coal.

CoAL-VLACK. ac/j. [coal znA Hack.] Black

Bucttn,

z.

all etcinlty,

Co'aly.

Maivailing, he coaled oui rhimes upon the wall,

About the third part of the oil olive, which was

;

:

and piling it to

ear to the pi^ure.

cretions, or congelations.
Spirit of wine commixed with millc, a third
part fpirit of wine, and two parts milk, caaguUltlh
little, but mingleth ; and the fpirit fwims not above.

coagulating ; the ftate of being coagu-

coalitior. of dlftinGlavviUe.
In the fi:ft coalition of a people, their profpeft ia
not great
they provide laws for their prefem ctle^ncc,
//j/..
'Tis necelTary that thefe fquandered atoms
fliould convene and unite into great mafles: witliout fuch a coalition the chaos muft have reigned to

To delineate with a coal.

2.

To run into con-

.

and every part thereof a
guilhable varieties.

through fuch far, foul, and cumberfome ways.
Carenu^s Survey of Ccrnivail
Charcoal of roots, coaled ipto great pieces, lafts
longer than ordinary charcoal.
Bacon.

Vivification ever ccnfifteth in fpirits attenuate,

Coagula'tion. n.f. [from coagulate.]
1
Concretion ; congelation
the ad of

The world 's a mafs of hctcrngeneous confiftenclcs,

be burnt j in tistching the fame, when it is coaled,

which the cold doth congeal and ccaguhtt,

concretion j union.

whole.

Shakifpeare.

for this fcrvicc ; felling, fr-ming,

;

conjundion of feparatc parts in one

Add the tinner's care and coft in buying the wood

milk.

To Coa'gulate. 'V. n.

ad of coalefcing

Coali'tion. ft./, [from coale/co, coalittm,
Latin.] Union in one mafs or body ;

To Coal. ki. a. [from the noun.]
1
To burn wood to charcoal.

by the

afFufion of feme other fubftance, to turn

Acivton.

To grow together; to join.

Coale'scence. n./ [from coale/ct:.] The

The rage of jealoufy then fir'd his foul,
And his face kindled like a burning co<i/. Drydtn.

Boyle.

;

charcoal.

Fire ; any thing inflamed or ignited.

me.

'v. a. \_coagulo, Lat.]

To force into concretions

j

2.

You are no furer, no.
Than is the cojl of fire upon the ic*
Or hailftoncs in the fun.
Shaiefpeare.
You have blown this ccal betwixt ray lord and

[from coagulate.']
That whicli is capable of concretion.
adj.

To COA'GULATE.

The cinder of fcorched wood

become of a conveu'ejif

fizc to reflcift fome colours,

Whatfoever doth I'o alter a body, as it rcturneth
net again to tliat it was, mny be called alteratio
m.ijor ; as when cheefe is made ef curd;, or coijls
of wood, or bricks of earth.
Baccn.

menting, and ieagmeviathn of words, when it is
BmjQr.Un.
fmioth, gentle, and fweet.

into vitriol.

globules, thofe globules

iTiall

fi'oodiuaril^i Natui'iil Il'^try,

Coagmenta'tion. n./. [from co^gment.]
Colleftion, or coacervation, into one
nrafs ; union; «njunflion.
The third part rcils in the well joining, ceCoa'gulable.

C O A

meet with the fame mineral lodged in
ecali, that elfewhere we frund in marie,

the world been ceagmevtcd from that fup-

my coarfe EngUih, his beautiful ex-

prcflions,

0,

Dryden,

Not nicely expert ;

unfinished

by art

or education,
Praftical rules may bcufefultofuch as arc remote
from advice, and to rMr/< praflitiontrs, which tiny
ar; obliged to iq^Ic' "^ "f-

U u z

jlrbuthiut.

7,

Mean';

Mean 5 not nice ; not ekgant ; vile.

7.

Ill

Co'aster.

conforty and * ccarfe pcrluincy

1.

The coal of many colours they brought to their
father, and fatd, this have we found
know now
:

whether it be thy fon's con.' or no.

"

2.

Rudely ; not civilly.
The good cannot be too much hoiioured, oor the

A

friend's younger Ton, a child in
nor cafily brought to his book.

4. Inelegantly.

Impurity; unrefined Hate.
Firlt know the materials whereof the glafs is
made ; then confider what th;

reafon

of the

is

Bset-n's Ejjdys.

coarjeMft or dcdtncfs.

Rougbnefs ; want of finenefs.
Groflhefs ; want of delicacy.

2.

}.

A bafe wild olive he remains

What's done i' th' capitol ; making parties ftrong,

manders.
Hiwcl'i y'ccal Fcrtfi.
Mirn of his r^^rihould be minding their pray'rs,
Acd not among ladies, to give themfelves airs.

Below their cobbled fhoes. Shakejpeare^ s Coriolanj,
Many underlaycrs, when they could not live
upon their trade, have railed themfelves from cti-

The edge or margin of the land next

6.

portrayed.

As if what we efteem in ccbblen bafe
Would the high family of Brutus grace.

<z/.
a. [from the noun.]
To
cover ; to invert ; to overfpread
as, to
coat a retort ; 10 coat a ceiling.

made ufe of Auftin as a cobijhof, for the benefit of

I »ii.r

.'

jiyliffe.

;

to flatter ;

Cob.

J

Ber. Jfnfin's Catilire.

Co'bweb. n.f. [kofiucb, Dutch.]
The web or net of a fpider from ceb,
I

A whecd-

a flatterer.

:

.

a fpider.

A word often ufed in the compo-

The lucklefs Clarion,

fition of low terms ;

corrupted from cop.
Sax. iojif. Germ, the head or top.

With violent fwift flight, tuith carried
Into th,e cuifcd cciivci^

.vliich his foe

Had framed for his fiaal overthrow.

Cob. n./.
I.

am nut taken

With a cohftvan, or a high-mounting bull.
As foolilh Lcda and £uropa were.

I wheedle I I'm above it.
Farqubar's Recruiting Officer.

Co'axer.;/./ [from the verb.]
ler ;

J4d^n tn Italy

the chuich of Hippo.

Co'bnut. n.f. [cob and «»/.] A boy's
game the conquering nut.
Co'bswan. n.f. [cob, head, and /w««.l
The head or leading fwan.

L'EjIrangf.

fays flic.

isg the comf ;;f3, was fain to ttaji chM ftiore.
Srvuia'i fidlgar Brmrs.

ti >t*

Valerius, advanced in years, and a Grecian by

A

near to.

WCaJowi, tai C9i»-ficld< wbicb lie on tbe borders,

jutant biihop.
birth, not qualified to prcLiuh in the Latin tongue,

jirhuihiM en Oiiri.

(be li.verjl profpc^s o( wood^, vineyards,

; as fpits, ranges,
Bacon' t Phyfical Remains.

CoBi'tHOP. «./ [con And hijhof.] A coad-

to humour.
low word.
The nurfe had changed her note ; ihe was muzzling and coaxing the child ; that 's a good dear,

Drydai's f^irgH.

The grcatcfl enter! linment we found in aa/ling

The implements of the kitchen
c^irons, and pots.

Drydci:.

To COAX. 'V. a. To wheedle ;

The ancients euijitd only in their navigation,

tt, were

Irons

:

Sought not the garden, butretir'd unfeen. Drydtn.

Nearchus, tbeadmiral of Alexander, not knaw-

Drydtn's Juvenal.

Co'birons. n.f. [cob and iron.]
with a knob at the upper end.

To Coat.

The royal fpy, when now tht coaft -was dear,

to fail

Think you the great prerogative t' enjoy

Of doing ill, by virtue of that race ?

Going out, «nd feeing that tbe eoafi vat clear f,

To fail by j

perfon.

That on which the enfigns armorial are

Spcnjcr.

mies have marched off.

^» Coast, v. a.

Sbaiejfeare'i yuTius Citfar.

In a kind of proverbial fenfe, any mean

3

Cropp'd are tbe flower-de-luces in your arms
Of England's coat one half is cut away.
Sbahtffiares Uinry VI.
At each trumpet was a banner boimd.
Which, waving in the wind, difplay'd at large
Their mailer's coat of arms and knightly charge.

The danger is over ; the ene-

dofe by the coaft ; to fail within fight
of land.
But fteer my ve(Tel with a Iteady hand.
And coafi along the Oiore in fight of land.

What trade are you?**
Truly, Sir, in refpeA of a flne workman, I an
but, as you would fay, a cobbler.

The herald of love's mighty king,
In whofc coat armour richly are difplay'd
All forts of flowers the which on earth do fpring.

Tie Coast is clear, [a proverbial ex-

Tb Coast, -v. n. [from the noun.] To fail

Addijon on Italy*

A dumfy workman in general.

2.

terminating in the brain, their teguments terminating in the coats of the eye.
Dcrham^i PkyJico-7heckgy,
Amber is a nodule, inveflcd with a coat, called
ffoiJivard on Fcjfih.
rock-amber.

Nfwtia'i Optich,

SiJniyr

Not many years ago it happened that a cobilep
had the calling vote for the life of a criminal.

Peacham.

Baccit.

Zelraane difmiffed Mufidonis.

Benfley.

Any tegument, tunick, or covering.

5.

French cojie. It was likewife fo ufed by Bacon.
The fouth-eaft is found to be bettor for ripening
Some kind of virtue, lodged in fome fides of

jumbled together.

Co'bbler. n.f. [from coiilt.']
1. A mender of old ftioes.

In lufcious Areams, and lent us your own coat
Againft the v^-inter's cold.
Thumfin'i Sfrhg.

fide, like the

the cryllal, inclines and ben.ls the rays towards the
Mjy?,ofunurualrcfra6lion J otlicrwife the rays would
not be refra^ed trvwards thit fOtiy? rather than any
otherrc^, both at their incidence and at theiremcrgence, fo as to emerge by a contrary ficuation of

Drydent
not that the whole univerfe is mere
bungling and blundering, nothing efle^led for any
purpol'e ordefign, but all ill-favouredly cobbled ind
Believe

Mort'imer'i Hujbavdry.

The optick nerves have their medullary parts

wcll be the hottcft coaJi.

L'EJIrange.

To do or make any thing clumfily, or
Rejeft the naufeous praifes of the times;
Give thy bafe poets back tiicir cobbled rhimes.

You have given us milk

He fees in Englifli ihips the Holland coaji. DryH.
It feems to be taken by Ne^tcn for

feldom taking the upe n Itia.

bling to fluxing.

2.

his oats, and it will make his ccat lie fine.

Tbe eye is defended with four ccats or Ikms.

preffion.]

And feeble fuch as ftand not in their liking

unhandily.

It is not ufed for
the fea ; the (hore.
the banks of lefs waters.

of trees thin the fouth-weft; though the fouth-

Stakefpcare^s ^vlijn C^/ar,

They'll fit by th' fire, and prefume to know

Miltsn.

COAST, n.f. {cop, Fr. cejla, Latin.]

-Sir,

For his intermeddling with arms, he is the more
excufeable, becaufe many of his ccat, in thofc
times, are not only martial directors, but com-

Give your horfe fome powder of brimrtone in

Confider the penurioufnel's of the Hollanders,

—Why,

cobble you.

And thought not much to clothe hit enemies.

\

the aarjeniji of their food and raiment, and their
little indulgences of pleafure. ylJJiftn on tki IVar.

3.

If you be out. Sir, I can mend you.

of the ofiice.

Their nakednefs with (kins of hearts ; or llain.
Or, as the fnake, with youthful cmt repaid;

The (hrub the ccarfrvrfi of the clown retains. Garth.
Meannefs ; want of nicety.

the CM/f.

:

nerally of ihoes.

He clad

4. Roughnefs ; rudenefs of manners.

2.

was

Lccke.

of any animal.

L

1.

FMu

Stvifi.

Friends (pardon thecM«/.ntyi of the illuftratian)

but

To CO'BBLE. 1/. a. [toiler, Danilh.]
1
To mend any thing coarfely ufed ge-

The hair or fur of a beaft ; the covering

4.

as dogs in couples, (UctuM be uf the daie {itt,
Ljirangr.

5.

coati,

;

ours is a poor kind. From cobalt arc produced the
three forts uf arfenick, white, yellow, and red ; aa
alfo z>n\e and fmalc.
Hill on

The habit or vefture, as demonftrative

3.

Co'arseness. n. f. [from coarfe.'\
1.

Germany, Saxony, Bohemia, and England

Gtrefis.

Petticoat ; the habit of a boy in his
infancy ; the lower part of a woman's
drefs.

Drydcn.

Be plcifed to accept the rudiments of Virgil's
poetry, aarjttj tranflatcd, but which yet reuins
Drydcn.
fome beauties of tlie author.

Ceittit is plentifully impregnated with arfenick;
contains copper and fome filvcr. Being fublimed,
the flores are of a blue colour : thefc, German mi>
neralifts call zaflir.
H^codtvard.
Cobalt is a denfe, compa^, and ponoerous miIhining,
neral, very brijjht and
and much refemIt is found in
bling fome of the antimnnisl ores.

Samuti.

I

A marcafite frequent in

Saxony.

The upper garment.
brafs.

In fome provinces, and probably in old
language, a fpider ; whence cobtuch.

Co'balt. n. /,

He was armed with a ceai of mall, and the
weight of the coat was five ihoufand Hiekils of

without refinement.

bad too cearftly ufed.

2.

COAT. «./. [ceite^ Fr. cotta, Italian.]

Meanly ; not elegantly.

3.

He that

coaft."]

We here but coajiin, not difco¥*rers are. Dryden.

Co'arsely. aJ'v. [from coar/i.'\

John cnme neither eating nor drinlcing, but
^>cd cMrJely and poorly, according Co the ;ipparei
Brvwn.
he wore.

[from

near the ihore.

In our fmall IkifFwe mud nut launch too far;

A

2.

«. /.

fails timoroufly

Jiofiomimn.
Difgracc the delicacy of a fcalt.
aarjt ani ufcleis dunghill weed,
Fix'd to one fpot, to rot ju(t as it grows. Oiicjy.
From this coarft mixture of terrcllrial parts,
Dcfire and fear by turns poflcfs their hearts. Vryd.

1.. Without finenefs ;

COB

COB

C O A

fupper ready,

houfe trimmed,
ftrtwcd, and cobwebs fwipt ?
Is

A fort of fca-fowl ; called alfo^«-c«^.
rkiiiip.

the

Sfenfer.
ruflies

Staie/feart't Taming cftie Shrew.

\

Tb«

c o c
The fpider, in the h^ufe of a burgher, fell prenetwork of drawing

fencly to her

cobivdiis up

down.
Z,

pecking ; but it was, I think, fo called
when it had not its prefent form.]

and

L'EJIrange.

Any fnare, or trap : implying
dioufneis and weaknefs.
could twift
For he a rope of d

With hafty rage he fnatch'd
His gunfcot, that in holftcrs watch'd
;
And bending cock, he levell'd full

infi-

bffore the lock another for the bullets ; behind
the cock a charger, which carries the powder from
rtie box to

A conqueror

7.

I

.

K. /.

Sir Andrew is the cock of the club fince he left

Cockcrowing ; a note of the time in a

We were caroufing

Screwform ; in the form of a

French.]
The male to the hen ; a domeftick fowl,

•1.

coq,

Carcvj's Survey of Cornwall.

Appear like mice ; and yond tall anchoring bark,
Diminilh'd to her cock ; her cock, a buoy,

Almoft too fmall for fight.

A fmall heap of hay. [Properly ro/.]
As foon as the dew is oft' the ground, fpread the
hay again, and turn it, that it may wither on the
then handle it, and, if you find it dry,

The form of a hat.

11.

M-^rtimcr.

[from the comb

of the cock.]
You fee many a fmart rhetorician turning his

courage.
Coch have great combs and fpurs ; hens, little
Bacon'i Natural Hijiory.

:

make it up into cocks,

remarkable for his gallantry, pride, and

or none.

Shakefpearc.

10.

other fide

hat in his hands, moulding it into feveral different
cocks.

12.

Addifor.

The ftyle or gnomon of a dial.

True cMki o* th' game.

That never a(k for what, or whom, they fight i
But turn 'em out, and (hew 'em but a foe,
Cry liberty, and that 's a caufe of quarrel.
The careful hen
Calls all her chirping family around,
and
Fed
defended by the fcarlefs mck.

Drjd.

that (hews the di-

;

Camden s Remains.

You 'II make a mutiny among my guefts
You will fet coik a hoop !
Shakefpearc.
For Hudibras, who thought h' had won
The field, as certain as a gun.
And having routed the whole troop,
With viSory was cock a hoop,
Hudibras.
To CocK. 1/. a. [from the noun.]
1

Sbakcffeare.

To fet erefl ; to hold bolt upright as
a cock holds his head.
This is that mifcle which perfoms the motion

Ijpout to let out water at will, by
turning the ftop : the handle had probably a «f4 on the top. Things that were
contrived to turn, feera anciently to have
had that form, whatever was the reafon.

mentioned by tlie Latin poeta, when thev
talk of a man's cocking his nofe, or playing the
fo often

rhi.ioceros.

Gay's PttJIorals.

Dick would cock his nofe in fcorn.
But Tom was kind and loving.
2.

Sbaktfteart.

It were good there were a- little eoek made in the
belly of the upper glafs.

Bacon's Natural WJInry.

Thu» the fmall jc-tt, which hafty handi unlock,
Spirts in the gaid'ner's eyes who turns the tor*.
Pope.

The notch of an arrow.
6. The part of the lock of a gun that
5.

ftrikes with the flint,

A

pofed to rife from a cock's egg.
They will kill one another by the look, like
Shakcfpeart^

This was the end of this little cockatrice of a
king, that was able to deftroy thofe that did not
efpy him firft.
Bacont
This cockatrice is fooneft crufhed In the ihell ;
but, if it grows, it turns to a ferpent and a dragon,
Taylor*

My wife! 'tis fhe, the very rcfil(jrri-v Congreve*
Co'cKBOAT. n.f. \_cock and boat.'\ A
/

fmall boat belonging to a Ihip.
That invincible armada, which having not fired
a cottage o{ ours at land, nor taken a cockboat oi

ours at lea, wandered through the wildernefs of the
northern feas.
Bacons
Did they think it lefs difhonour to God to be
like a brute, or a plant, or a cockboat, than to be
like a man ?

SiUlmgfleet.

Co'cKBROTH. n.f. Broth made by boil-

morning.
Ye know not when the mafter of the houfc
Cometh ;

at even,

or at midnight, or at the cock-

Matk^

crotvingy or in the morning.

[from cocca,

Ita).

the notch of an arrow. Siinner. Perhaps
from the adlion, like that of a cock

Molt children's conftitutibus arc fpoiled by cockering and tciidernefs.

'

Locke on Education.

He that will give his fon fugar plums to make
him learn, doe? but authorize his love of pleafurCy
and

cocker

up that propenfity which he ought to

fubdue.

Locke 071 E'iuiation.

Bred a fondling and an heirefs,
Drefs'd like any Lady May'refs,
Cocker'd by the fervants round.
Was too good to touch the ground.

Sioif^.

Co'cK E R. n. /. [from cock.'] One who fol-

Co'cKEREL. n.f. [from cock^

A young

cock.
Swift,

To fet up the hat with an air of petulance and pertnefs.

Dick, who tlius long had pafTive fat,
Here ftrok'd his chin and cock'd his hat.
Prior.
An alert young fellow cockel his hat upon a friend
of his who entered.
Mdifon's Spectator,
3. To mould the form of the hat.
4.

To Co'cKER. 1/. a. [coqueliner, French.]
To cade ; to fondle ; to indulge.

lows the fport of cockfighting.

O'er yonder ftile fee Lubberkin appears.

When every room
I have retlr'd me to a wafteful ceck,

'jiddifon.

Our Lightfoot barks, and cocks his ears j

Hath blfu'dwi; blights, and bray'd with minftrelfj,

And fet mine eyes at flow,

n. f.
[from cock, and
at:tep. Sax. a ferpent.]
ferpent fup-

;

.'

A

A ribband

worn in the hat.

!

You catarafls and hurricanoes, fpout
Till you have drench'd our fteeples, drown'd the
4.

little.

Cocka'de. w. / [from feci.]

CocKCRo'wiNG. n.f. \_cock and cro'w.'\
The time at which cocks crow the

Cock on the Hiiop.

What (hould I do but let cock on the hoop f

reftion qf the wind by turning.

«f*»

Cock, in compofition, fignifies fmall or

Triumphant; ex-

14.

Now I am a frilker, all men on me look

Arbutbnot and Pope.

The weathercock,

To

ing a cock.

ulting.

Calves and philofophers, tygers and ftatefmen,
CHk fparrows and coquets, exiStU refemble one
another in the formation of the piiieat gland.

3.

vow, methinks, he 's pretty company.
Dryden.
Every one cocks and ftruts upon it, and pretends
to overlook us.
Addifons Guardian^
2.
train or ufe fighting cocks.
Cries out 'gainil cocking, fince he cannot bet.
Ben Jonfon,
I

Diet upon fpoon-mqats ; as veal or cockbroths
prepared with French barley. Harvey on Confumpm

The needle of a balance.

The male of any fmall birds.

Sir Fopling is a fool fo nicely writ.

The ladies would miftake him for a wit;
And when he fings, talks loud, and foc>&5, would crvj

Chambers.
13.

1 banfun^ I Sfr'wg,
2.

To ftrut ; to hold up the head, and look
big, or menacing, or pert.

cockatrices.

The fifliermen, that walk upon the beach.

WoQdiuard an FoJJiU.
;

a fmall boat.

fiiherboats hovering on the cuaft.

in ^lian.
Smuns Vulgar Erroun,
Co'cHLEATED. adj. [from cochlea, Lat.]

COCK. n.f. [cocc, Saxon

;

They take a view of all fizcd cocks, barges, and

agrreth with the defcriptk)n of the unicorn's horn

Two pieces of ftone, flruclc forth of the cavity of
the umbilici of Ihells, of the fame fort with the
foregoing : they are of a ctchlaittd figure.

Sbakeff.

Sbakeffeare,

A cockboat

9.

fcrew.
That at St. Dennis, near Paris, hath wreatliy
fpircs, and cocbUary turnings about it, which

Of a fcrewed or turbinated form.

till the fccond c«*.

Hfe begins at curfew, and goes till the firft cock.

Co'cHLEARY. adj. [itota ccchUa, hax. a

1

Co'cKATRicE.

morning.

;

Hill.

fctew.]

;

Siuift.

8.

Ao inlecV gathered upon the opuntia, and dried
from which a beautiful red colour is extracted.

AddiJ'on.

My fchooimifter call'd me a dunce and a fool
But at cuffs 1 was always the cock of the fchool.

Span, a

woodloufe.j

a leader ; a governing

us.

^incy.

\_cochittilUt,

;

man.

All plants or trees are fo

called that have berries.

a funnel at the further end of the lock.

Grcvf.

Co'coA. It./. See Cacao.
Cocci'ferous. adj. [from xoxxo?, and

Co'c H N E A L

Hudibras.

A feven-fliot gun carries powder and bullets for

Drydn.
broke through it with his weight.
Laws are liite (chiuebs, which may catch Imali
flieSy but let wafps and hornets break through.
Swift.

Sike mirth in May is meeteft for to makey
Or fummer Ihade, under the cocked hay,
Spenfer s Paflortlst

feven charges and difcharges.
Uhder the breech
of the barrel is one box for the powder; a little

That^s empty when the moon is full. ffud:bras.
Chronology at belt is but a cobwtb law, ano he

To raife ha^ in fmall heaps.

5,

To Cock. v. n.

Aga-nft th' outfide of Talgol's (kull.

!

As tough as learned Sorbonift
And weave fine cobvjtbs fit for fcuil

/ero, Lat.]

CO c

c o c

To Sx the cock of a gun ready for a
difcharge.
Some of them holding up their piftols, cocked,
near the door of tlkchoufi:, which they kept open.
Drydtifl Dciualim, Mntid.

Which of them firft begins to crow ?—
The old cock .'—The cockerel.
Shakefpeare.
What wilt thou be, young cockerel, when thy
fp'irs

Are grown to fharpncfs ?

Drydcn.

Co'cKET. n.f. [of uncertain derivation,]
A feal belonging to the king's cuftomhoufc
:

likcwife a fcroU of parchment, f'aled and delivered

by the officers of the cuitomhoufc to merchants,
as a warrant tiiat their merchandize is entered.
C'.-mII.

The
hide°. ;

by the cocket of
lor wool and woolfells were ever of little
gteateft profit

value in this kingdom*

did

arifc

Daniies,

Co CK-

c o c
Co'cicFicHT.

A

and /gi.'.]

ri pjbiiclci

e.->cl

O.IUT.

arc wrought into balkets.

Is a lond yhote cocayug.
:

Gallos, otio, gula:, et vcntri deditot,

and

igiiaviim, ignanjam, dejldiofum, dejsdioj'am,

fle(hy, dry,

On

Jtgnem, fignificabant. Hinc urbanos, utpote i rufticis laboribus ad vjtam fcdentariam et defidiofam avocatos, pagani

Prtsr,

noilri olira coiaignes, quod nunc fcribitur

du(ky colour, an agreeable fraell, and a pleafant
and peculiar talie. It was unknown to us till the
difcovcry of America.
The tree is of the thicknefs of a man's leg, and but a few feet in height;
its bark rcu^h, and full of tubercles ;
and its

Alma, they Areiiuoufly inatntainy

CO'CKLE. «. / [coquille, French.]

cockneys, vocabant.

1.

in

A fmall tellaceous filh.

It is a ncHt or a walnut (hell.
Sbaitffeari.
may, I think, from the make of an oyrter,
or iccklf, reafonably conclude, that it has not fo
many, nor fa quick, fenfes as a man.
Loctt.
Three common cockle Ihells, out of gravel pits.

A little or young cock.

Obfolete.

1

They bcaren the crjg fo ftlff and fi> (late.
As ctck/e on his dunghill crowing crank.
Sfenlir't Pajlorali.

Co'cKLE-STAiRS.

It.

then i' th' party alive.

/. Winding Or fpiral

For who is fuch a cockney in liis heart.
Proud of the plenty of the fouthcrn part.
To fcc»rn that union, by which we may
Boafl 'twas his countryman that writ this play ?

Chambers.

ftairs.

Co'cKLE. n. f.

Saxon;

[coccel,

A weed

aix.ania, Lat.]

that

lolium,

grows

in

corn, the fame with cornrofe ; a fpecies
ot' poppy.

In faothing them, we nouriih 'gainft our fcnate
Shak.
Good feed degenerates, and oft obeys

The ctcUe of rebellion, infolencr, fedition.

Sbaktjpcare'i King Lear.

Co'cKLOFT. n. /. [cod and /«/>.] The
room over the garret, in which fowls
are fuppcfed to roolt ; unlefs it be rather
corrupted from ccploft, the cop or top of
the houfe.
If the loweft floors already burn,
CockJofti and garrets foon will take their turn.
Dryiten^s JuvcTial.

it

L'EJhangi.

Co'ck's-comb.

n. f.

[cock nxid comb.]

parties

Mdifon,
is

what is moft taken

notice of, they had doubtlcfs cockmatcbes alfo.
yJrbuthr.st and Pope.

Co'cKNEY. H. f. [A word of which the
original is much controverted.
The
•

French ufe an expreffion, pais de
caigne, for a country of dainties :
Paris

ej}

co-

piur un riche un pais de co-

caigne.

Boilenu.

Of this word -they are not able to fettle the original.

ylriuibnot en Dieft

???;ts„. } »•/

COD. n. f.

It appears, whatever

was it; firft ground, to be very ancient,
being mentioned inan old NormannoSaxon poem

[1/W/'"-]

Afeafilh.

Saxon.] Any cafe
or hufk in which feeds are lodged.
Thy corn thou there may'ft fafely fow.
Where in full codt laft year rich pcafc did grow.
May,
They let pcafe lie in fmall heaps as they are
[cobbe,

reaped, till they find the ha .vm and c^ dry.

Mortimer s Hufhandry.
clofe in a cod.

Co'ck's-head. n.f. A plant, named alfo
Miller.

Co'cKSHUT. n. f. [from cock im& Jhut.]
The clofc of the evening, at which time

Went through the army.

Skakefpeare.

A fpecies of medlar.
Miller.
cock

and fure.l

Confidently certain ; without fear or
word of contempt.

diffidence.

Co'dders. n.f. [from cod.] Gatherers of
Dia.

peafe.

Code. «._/".
1

2.

[fo</if.v,

Latin.]

A book.
A book of the civil law.
We

Co'cKSPUR. u.f. [cock and ^«r.]' Virginian hawthorn.

All codded grain being a deftroyer of weeds, an
improver of land, and a preparer of it for other
crops.
Mortimer.

A

plant.

Co'cKSURE. ad'v. [from

prcferve towards one another an outward (hew of
good breeding, their tools will not fo much a;
quail-fighting

minates \a fuppuratioM or a gangrene.

war, where are fubdivifions for the purfer, the furgeon, and his mates. Harris.

[cod and match.]

mingle at a cstkmulct.

toration from the lungs, and that is taken off by a

A place on the lower deck of a man of To Cod. -v. n. [from the noun.] To in-

Surrey and himfelf.
Much about cockjhut time, from troop to troop

A ceckmajicr bought a partridge, and turned

Made by

Lat.]

baking, as a brick.

ll^tvers Focal Forefl.

poultry go to rooil.

Co'cKMASTER. ft./. [cocA and majfer.]
One that breeds game cocks.

[«<7;7/'/,

Co'cTiON. n.f.

.'

lay lumber in.

Cockfight for a priae.
At the fame time that the heads of

Tbomfon*

Co'cTiLE. adj.

Any effeminate, ignorant, low, mean,

very ipdiflerently furnilhcd ; but they are rooms to
Stvift.

the cocoa nuts,

Give me to drain the cocm's milicy bowl.
And from the palm to draw its freiheiiing wine.

Can this cockpit hold

2.

are lodged

coffion and refolution of the feverilh matter, or ter-

fainfoin.

My garrets, or rather ray cocktofti indeed, are

fruit

Hill'i Mat. Med.
Amid* thjfe orchards of the fun.

world, and academy of arms, for many years.

Love's feeling ii more foft and I'enfible
Thart are the tender horns o( cwkkj fnails. Shai.

this

Within the

ufaally about thirty in number.

The vafty fit Id of France
Sbakefpeere.
And now have I gained the cockpit of the weftern

or perhaps cochleate, turbinated.

n. /.

cavity of

Dc.rf.1.

The foils difeafc, and into cockit (Irays. Dmnt.
afraid this great lubbar the world will
1 am
Co'cKi. E. <r. «. [from cccik."] To
provo a cockney.
Sbakejpeare' s Tive/ftb Night.
contraft into wrinkles, like the Ihell of
Co'cKPiT. ft./, [cock zad pit.]
a cockle.
1
The area where cocks fight.
Show'rs foon drench the camblet's cecUtd grain.

among the Hghting cocks.

;

when fully ripe, of a purple colour.

The cockney, travelling int t the country, is furprized at many common practices of rural affairs.

T'o

Gay.

as'much in

[coaio, Lat.]
The aft
of boiling.
The dil'eale is fometimes attended with expec-

defpicable citizen.

Co'cKLED. adj. [from cockle.'\ Shelled;

a dry kernel, filling up its whole cavity,
firm, and fatti(h to the touch, of a

breadth, and pointed at the ends.
The flowers
are fucceeded by the fruit, which is large and oblong, rcfemhling a cucumber, five, fix, or eight
inches in length, and three or four in thicknels

H^atti.

2.

tif

loaves fix or eight inches long, lulf

Et poeta hie nofter
munachos & moniale», ut fegne ge-

nus hominum qui, defidiic dediti, ventri
indulgebant, & coquina: amatores erant,
malevolentiflime invehitur ; monalleria
& monafticam vitam inde fcriptionc tertx cockainece parabolicc perftringens.]
A native of London, by way of contempt.
So the coclr.cy did to the eel], when (he put

We

Though

long figure i is compofcd of a thin but hard and
woDdy coat or (kin, of a TiJfk blackilh colour;

Nunc coquin, coquim : qux olim apud

MJijon.

Sits cKkLirJi on her throne the brain.

Co'gk MATCH,

MiiUr.

The cacao or chocolate nut is a fruit of «n ob-

On which Dr. Hickes has this remark

ivaflunie tlicir national hitrcd to

Co'cic HORSE, adj. [cock and hor/e.'\
horfebiick ; triumphant ; exulting.

2.

The lctT«s are afed for thatching their boufes, tni

F.ir in fee by weft S{>ayng,

battle or match of cocks.
In cofifghs, t» niilce one cock nmrf hardy, ind
the other mory towirdly, Uttccn't Natural Ifijlsiy*
At ih.: feafoni ot' t'ooibjU and eoitfyiting, 'h^!c
litt'e

COD

c o c

\ciick

n. f.

A

We (leal, as in a caftle, ccckfure.

Hbake/peare.

thought my(e\f cockfure of h\i horfe, which he
readily promifcd me.
Pope's Letter!.
1

find in the Thcod ifun and Judinian codi
the tnterell of trade very well provided for.
Arbutbnot on Coins,
Indentures, cov'nants, articles they draw,
Large as the fields themfclves ; and larger far
Than civil coda with all their glofies are.

Pope's Sat.

Co'dicil. «. /. [codicillus, Lat.]
appendage to a wilL

An

The man ("ufpci^s his lady's crying
Was but to gain him to appoint her,
By codicil a larger jointure.

Prior.

Cod i'll e. n.f. [codille, Fr. codillo. Span.]

A term at ombre, when the game is
Co'cKswAiN. ft./, [cojjj-paine, Saxon.]
won.
The officer who has the command of
She fees, and trembles at th' approaching ill
the cock-boat.
Corruptly Coxon.
Ju(l in the jaws of ruin, and codille.
Pope's Rape of the Lock.
Co'cKWEED.
/. [from cock and lueed.]
The name of a plant, called alfo Dit- To CO'DLE. 'V. a. [coqii$, coSiulo, Lat.
)t.

tander, or Pepper-wort.

CocOA. n.f. [cacaotal. Span, and therefore more properly written cacao.]

A fpecies of palm-tree, cultivated in the Eaft
and Weft Indies. The bark of the nut is made
into cordage, and the (hell into drinking bowls.

Skinner.]

To parboil ; to foften by the

heat of water.

Co'dling. ». /

[fro^ To codle.]
An
apple generally codled, to be mixed
with milk.

The kernel affords them a wholefome fotd, and

In July come gifl'flowers of all varieties, early
pears and plums in fruit, gennitings and codlings.

milk contained in the IhcU a coaling liquor.

SactM'i Ejays,

the

Theix

C O E

C O E
Their entertainment at the height,
In cream and cojimgs rev'ling with delight.

C O F

That which has the power of laying

1.

reftraint.
Ail things, on the furface fpread, are bound
By their coerd've vigour to the ground
Blackmort-.

Kirg's Cookery.
He fet it lie all winter in a gravel walk, fouth of

T'e CoExi'sT. 'V. It. [con a.ndexiJfo, Latin.]

To exift at the fiime time.

1.

The three ftars that cccxiji in heavenly conftcllations, areamaititudeof ftjrs. Halr'sOrig.ofMank,

!

AUrtimr't Hufiandry.

a forf/iig hedge.

Coe'fficacy.
Lat.]

n. f.

The power

[f»»

things

afting together to produce an efteft.

We cannot in general infer the efficacy of thofe
medications.

BrmvnS y^u/gar Errcurs,
CoEFFi'ciENCY. «. / [cort and e^do,
Latin.] Cooperation; theilateof afting
together to ibme fingle end.

The managing and carrying on of this work, by
the fpirits inftrumental aitfficieticy, requires that
they be kept together, without diftin^ion or difli-

For minillers to feek that themfelves might
have ccerci-ve power over the church, woulJ have
been hardly conftrued.
Hoaker, Preface.
Tlie virtues of a general, or a king, are prudence, counlel, active fortitude, o/ercive power,
awful command, and the exercife of magnanimity,
as well as juftice.

[«« and eficiens,

tin.] Participating of the fame eflence.
The Lord our God is but one God, in which in-

which the motion or appearance never cotxijicd.
Locku

COEXl'sTENCE. n.f. [from fflf.V//?.]
1. Having exiftence at the fame time with
another

Coessentia'lity. n.f. [homcoeJ/eniiaL]
Participation of the fame eflence.

Of the fame age with another

[In algebra.] Such numbers, or given
quantities, that are put before letters,
or unknown quantities, into which letters they are fuppofed to be multiplied,

lution.

2.

with to.

:

Eve was old as Adam, and Cain their Ion ccetaBrciun'i Vulgar Err'^un.
Every fault hath penal eft'efis, coetanetui to the

neous unto both.
i(\.

ideas, and their coexiflcncc ivith him.

another
by time,

it is not requifite that that thing ihould
be cocxijlent to the motion we nicalure by, or any
other periodical revolution.
Lock^\

ons) is the quantity arifing by the divifion of that
Chambtn.
term, by the generated quantity.

Coete'rnally. ad-v. [from coetemal.]

Coe'liack

the belly.]
diarrhcea, or flux, that arifes from the
infligeflion or putrefaftion of food in the
Homach and bowels, whereby the aliment comes away little altered from
what it was when eaten, or changed like
[xoi^:a,

P^ffion.

Coete'rnity.
Having

n.

exiftence

[from coeternal.']
from eternity equal

/.

with another eternal being.
The eternir/ of the Son'j generation, and his

^incy.

corrupted Sinking flefh.

of equal eternity with an-

other.
Arius had diAonoured his cittcrnally hegotten
Son.
Hooker.

A

and confubflantiality with the Father,
when he came down from heaven, and was incarecet/rnlty

Coe'mption. n.f.

[<-o^/n///>,

Lat.]

The

of buying up the whole quantity of
any thing.

nate.

aft

Monopolies and cmmflhn of wares for refale,
where they are not rcllraincd, are great menns to
enrich.

Coe'qual.
Lat.]

aJJ.

Equal ;

[from con and ejualis,
being of the fame rank

Recent.
2.

VI.

reftrain ; to keep in order by force.
PuniOiments are manifold, that they may cocrct
Ayl'iffti

fait'gm.

Coe'rcible. adj. [from rocr«.]
1. That may be reftrained.
2. That ought to be reftrained.
Coe'rcion. n.f. [from coerce.]

Penal

reftraint ; check.

The cicriicn or execution of the fentence in ecis only by eicommunicjt'.on of
the perfon contumacious.
Halt'i dmrnyn I.aiu.
Go»emment has aerclen and animadvcrfion upon
fuch as neglcfl their duty ; without which coercive
power, all government is toothlefsandprecarinur.

defiaftical courts,

,.

fc..

S-Mii.

BrainhalTi Avfiver to Holies.

ivith the aft.

Time is taken for fo much of duration as is
coexijlent ivith

the motions of the great bodies of

the univerfe.

Locke,
All that one point is either future or pad, and

no parts are coexijient or contemporary ivith it.
BentUy.

To Coexte'nd. 11.

and extendo,
Latin.] To extend to the fame fpace or
duration with another.
Every motion

is,

a.

[con

in fume fort, coexicmtri with

Gnw's Cofmologia.

the body moved.

Coexte'nSion. »./ [Cmm coextend,] The
aft or ftate of extending to the fame fpace

Though it be a fpirit, 1 find it is no inconvenience to have fome analogy,
with my body.

at lead of coextenfion,

Ha!e^

CO'FFEE. n.f. [It is originally Arabick.
pronounced ctiheu by the Turks, and
cahunh by the Arabs.]
The tree is a
fpecies of Arabick jcfTamii-.e.
It is

found to fuccccd

js well

in

the Caribbee

diurnal of the earth upon its own axis, by the very

iflands as in its native place of growth ; but whe-

hypothecs, arc coeval -with the former.

Bentlcy.

ther the coffee produced in the Weft Indies will
prove as good as that from Mocha in Arabia
Felix, time will difcover.
Miller.

in

denotes a diink prepared from the
Europe for thcfe eighty
years, and among the Turks for one hundred and

Silence, coeval ivith eternity !

Thou wert, ere nature firfl began to be
'Twas one vail nothing all, and

To COE'RCE. -V. a.[coerceo, Latin.] To

,

Hj/t,

The monthly revolutions of the moon, or tlie

(late of being equal.

Cob »civ*» aaj. Lfrom ceerce.]

follow-

:

man.

Coequa'lity. a./ [from coequal.] The

__

Of the fame age with another

Tins religion cannot pretend to be coeval ivith

Shakiffiare'l Hmry

this profligate fort.

Prior,

ed by ivith.

He'll make his cap cct^ol vi\l)\ the crawn.

Sometimes ivith.

or duration with another.

Even hii teeth and white, like a young flock,
and ncv.'-(horn, from the clear brook

Caci-j/,

or dignity with another.
Henry the fifth did fometimes prophcfy,
If once he came to be a cardinal.

'

iIa7nmond't Furtdamentalt.

COE'VAL. adf. [coeevus, Latin.]
1. Of the fame age.

Bjcor.'i Ej/jyi.

2.

This proves no antecedent neccflity, but coexijlcnt

Milton' t Paradife hofl.

ftate

with to.

!

The cjtfiiitnt of any generating term (in fluxiIn a

:

To the meafuring the duration of any thing

;

Or of the eternal coeternt/ beam

Grciv'i C^j\

.

Through the body every member fuflains an-

3. In fluxions.

Lockft

More commonly followed by ivith.
We can demonftrate the being of G<jd'5 eternal

CoEXi'sTENT. adj. [from ccexiji.]
Having exiftence at the fame time with
1

Gov.

and fo do make a reflangle or produfl
other
and all are coctaiuous, becaufc none can fubwith the letters; as, 4 a, h x, cxx;
fift alone.
Bentky'i Serm-.n,
where 4 is the co-efiicient of 4a, h of Coete'rnal. adj. [con and leternus, Lat.]
Chambers.
Equally eternal with another.
bx, and f of fATjr.

with to.

coexifed-iaith, has here coexijlence to.
The meafuring of any duration, by fonic motion, depends not on the real coexijhnce of thi;t
thing to that motion, or any otiier periods of revo-

is the Son ; we blefs and magnify
that coejjefttial Spirit eternally proceeding from
both, which is the Holy Ghoft.
Hooker.

That which unites its ailion with the Coeta'neous. ae/J. [conzn&eetas, Latin.]

:

Lccke, who in the preceding lines has

Word, which

aflion of another.
2.

It is fufficier.t that we have the idea of the
length of any regular periodical appearances, which
we can in our minds apply to durjtion, toiib

diviJiblc un'ty we adore the Father, as being altogether of himfelf ; we glorify that confuijftantial

Latin.]
1.

Locke»

Followed by "uuth.

2.

Dryder..

Coesse'nti AL. adj. [con zv\A eff'c!7tia , La-

Glan-viliii Sccpjiu

pation.

CoEFFi'ciENT. ». /.

Ot fubftances no one has any clear idea, farther
than of certain fiiiiplc ideas cocxjling together.

authority of re-

training by punifhment.

Sw(/>.

and efficacia,

of feveral

ftars, or cctffcacy particular in

That which h.is the

2.

A codling, ere it went his lip in.
Would ftraight become 4 golden pippin.

:

all flept

thee

fort

p„p,,

Sometimes by to.

3.

Although we had no monuments of religion anwe have no ri-afon to condudethat idolatrous religion v/is, coeval to mankind.
Hale\ Origin of Mankind.
Coe'val. m. f. [from the adjcdlivc.] A
_

/ cienter than idolatry,

contemporary ;

but properly one not
only living at the fame time, but of the
fame time of life.
As it were not enough to have outdone all your
coevals io wit, you will excel them in good-nature.
Po/>,.

CoE vous, ac//.

[coeevui, Lat.]

One of

the fame age.

Th-n it Hiould not have been th? firil, as fuppofing fuuK other thing ikv>ui to it.
South.

CofFEZ

berries, very familiar in

Thevenot, the traveller, wai the firft who
brought it into P'rancej and a Greclc fervant,
called Pafqua, brought into England by Mr. Daniel
Edwards, a Turky merchant, in 1652, to make
his c'ffie, firft fet up the profefiion of coftecman,
and introduced the diink among us.
Chctmlcn,
""hey have in Turky a drink called cojf'ec, made
of a berry of the fame nam", as black as" foot, and
of a ftrong fccnt, but not arojnatical ; which they
ta'ce, beaten into powJer, in wa er, as hot as they
can drink it.
This drink comforteth the br.iin
an hi:art, and helpcth digcftion.
Bacon.
To part her time 'twixt reading and buliea,
Or o'er cold ciffce trifle with the f| oon.
Pope.
Co'ffeehousk. rt.j'.[coJ'a and houfe.]
fifty.

1

A

houfe of entertainment wi.ere coffee is
io\d,

COG

C O F
and the guefts are fiipplied with
news-papers.
At ten, from coffecboujt or play

fold,

ToCo'ffik. v. a. [from the noun.] To

I.et

Donne.

Agefiiaus ?

Addifin.

Co'ffeepot.

The

k. /. [coffee AnA pot ."^

covered pot in which coffee is boiled.
CO'FFER. n.J. [cope, Saxon.]
1. A chell generally for keeping money.
With precious metal fuli as they coulJ hold.
Fairy Stuecn.

The lining of his eoffni fliall make coats

Rety en the Creation,

Thefe powera of eogiiatior., and volition, and fenfation, are neither inherent in matter as fuch, nor

acquirable tu matter by any motion and'modificatiun

French.]
I.

To flatter; to wheedle

j

of it.

to footh by adu-

latory fpeeches.
I'll mountebank their loves,
Ca^ their hearts from them, and come home belovM

Of all the trades in Rome.
Shakefp. Cvriolanus.
To fecure it, fo as to
z. To Cog a die.

To deck our loldicis lor thcfc lri(h wars.
Shjhfffinre'i Richard 11.

temperate, and his lagitaticns vaft and irregular,
began not to brook him well. Bacon's Henry VII.

Meditation; contemplation;

3.

For guineas in other men's breeches,

Co'gitative. adj. [from cogito, Latin.]
1. Having the jK)wer of thought and re-

Vour gamefters will palm and will cog.

He would dif>:harge it without any burthen to
In diving in pockets, or cogging of dice.

Bjcvii'i Ailvke to ViiJUrt*

3.•[In architefture.]

fleftion.
if thefe powers of cogitation and fenfatinn are
neither inherent in matter, nor acquirable to matter, they proceed from fime cogitative fuhllance,
which we call fpiri: and foul.
Bentley.

Sifift.

Ye gallants of Newgate, whofe fingers aic nice

the <]ueen's ct,ffen, for honour fake.

A fquare deprefl'ure

3.

Swift.

To obtrude by falfehood.

The outcry is, that I abufc liis demonftration
in each interval between the modillions
by a falfification, by cogging in the word.
of the Corinthian cornice, ufually filled
TUktfon, Preface.
with fome enrichment.
Chambers.
I have cogged in the word to fervc my turn.
Stittingfleet.
A hollow lodgment
4. [In fortification.]
Fuftian tragedies, or inlipid comedies, have, by
acrofs a dry moat, from lix to feven foot
concerted applaufes, been cogged upon the town for
^eep, and from fixteen to eighteen*
marterpieces.
Dennis.
broad ; the upper part being made of To
Cog. 'V. «. To lye ; to wheedle.
pieces of timber, raifed two foot above
Now ftealcth he, now will he crave ;
the level of the moat ; which little eleAnd now will iie cofen and cog.
Tujfcr.
Mrs. Ford, I cannot cog ; I cannot prate, Mrs.
vation has hurdles laden with earth for
Ford
now ihall 1 fin in my wi(h.
its covering, and ferves as a parapet
Stakcff care's Merry ff^ives of ff^mdfcr.
with embrafures.
Chambers.
COG. «./. The tooth of a wheel, by which
To Co'ffer. 'V. a. [from the noun.] To
it aiSs upon another wheel.
treafure up in chelts.
Cog. 1/. a. [from the noun.] To fix cogs
To
Treafure, as a war might draw forth, fo a peace
in a wheel.
fucceeding might coffer up.
Baccv's Henry VJl.

Co'cENcy. n. /. [from eogeKt.]

A principal officer of his majefty's court,

ftrength ;

next under the comptroller, that, in the
compting-houfe and elfewhere, hath a
fpecial overfight of other officers of the
houfehold, for their good demeanour in

viftion.

Co'wcll.

their offices.

COTFIN. n.f. [co/», French.]

The earl had the dofer and more rcferved countenance, being by nature more cogitative.
H^otton.

Cogna'tion. n.f.

He went as if he had been the ciffin that carried
himfelf to his fepulchre.
Not- a flower fwcet
On my black re^^'n let there be Drown.

SiJmy.

Stakeff'ccire's 1'ivclfth Nig/.!.

One fate they have,
The (hip their coffirr, and the fea tlvir grave, ff^all.
The joiner Is fitting fcrews to ycur cc^n. Snvift,
2. A mould of parte for a pye.

Of the parte a c^ffir will 1 rear.
And make two paliies of your Jhamcful heads.
Skahffcarc.

3.

A paper cafe, in form of a cone, ufed
by grocers.

Corns of a horfe, is the whole hoof of the foot
above the coronet, including the ccffin bone. The
t!,Jpn bone is a fmall fpongy bone, inclofed in the
inidft of the houf, and |H)fltffing the whole form
Ferricr'i Dia.

5

of tlieir cleainefs and cogency.

Locke.

CO'GENT. adj. [cogens, Latin.], Forciconvincing ; powerful ;
ble ;
having the power to compel convidUon.
Such is the cogent force ni nature.
Prior.
They have contrived methods of deceit, one repugnant to another, to evade, if polfible, this moll
cogent proof of a Deity.

Cogently, adv.

Bentley.

[from cogent ."^

With

force ; forcibly ; ib as to force

coaviftion.

They forbid us to hearken to thofe proofs, as
weak or fallacious, which our own exigence, and
the fenfiblc parts of the univerfc, offer fo clearly
and cogcr.tly to our thoughts.
Locke.

Co'gcer. n.f. [from To cef.]

A flat-

terer ; a wheedler,

Co'ggleston E. n.f. [cuogolo, Ital.] A
little

ftone ; a fmall pebble.

Co'gitable.

4. In farriery.

•I the foot.

Maxims and axioms, principles of fciencc, becaufc they arc felf-evident, have been fuppofed innate J although nobody ever Ihewcd the foundation

refilllefs

[cognatio, Latin.]

Kindred ; defcent from the fame origi-

1.

nal.

Two vices I fliall mention, as being of near cog..
ration to ingratitude ; pride, and hard-heartednefs,

or want of companion.
South.
Let the criticks tell me what ceitain fen^i; they
could put upon either of thefe four words, by tiieir

mere cognation with each other.

JVatts on the Mind.

Relation ; participation of the fame na-

2.

ture.

He induceth us to afcribe effefls unto caufes of
no cognation.

Brorvn's J^ulgar Errours.

Cognisef.'. n.f. [Inlaw.] He to whom
a fine in lands or tenements i» acknowledged.

Ccivell.

Co'gnisovr.

refilllefs ;

The box or cheft in which dead bodies
are put into the ground. It is ufed both
of wood and other matter.

1.

Force "<

power of compelling ; con-

Given to thought and deep meditation.

2.

;

Co'ffer ER oy the King's Houfehold. n.f

mental

fpeculation.
On fome great charge cmploy'd

He feem'd, or fixt in eogitation deep. ATilt. Par. Loji.

Dryden'i Fcr. Satires.

2. Treafure.

Bentley.

Purpofe ; refleflion previous to aflion.
The kinj, pcrcciviil^ that his dcfircs were in-

2.

direft its fall ; to falfify.
But then my ftudy was to cog the dice.
And dext'roully to throw the lucky fice.

If you defVroy your goveniour that is weaitliy,
you muJ> chufe ar;other, who will fill his c*i£cri
out of what is lelu
L'EJirjnge.

becaufe they could never be brought to fig-

ni^ their thoughts by any artificial figns.

TatUr.

To COG. 1/. a. [A word of uncertain original, derived by Skinner from coqueliner,

Two iron cojfcn hung on cither (idc,
'

This Defcartcs ptovcs that brutes have no cogl*
tat'un,

Where will be your fextons, ctfinmatcrt, and

plummets ?

darkened, and b;ing

cogitation, or a^prchenfion of the pcrfon. Stilling f.

Co'ffeeman. ti.f. [cojee -And man.] One Co'ffinmaker. «. /. \_coffin and maker.']
One whofe trade is to make coffins.
that keeps a coAce-houfe.
Confider your enemies the LaceJemonians ; did
ever yuu hear that they preferred a ctffumati to

eogitaiioni

:

me lie

In prifon, and here be co^rCdy when I die.

S^viJ't.

their

which is in them.
llorkcr.
A pidure puis me in mind of a friend the
intention of the mind, in feeing, is carred to the
objeft reprefented ; which is no more than fimp'c

home.

That weep'lLto fee me triumph ? Shak^ Ccrklanut,

do not cmccrn themfelvcs
about, farther than perhaps as a fubjcA in a affatluft.

Having

ftrangers from the life of God, from the4gnorance

-

It is a point they

Thought; the aft of thinking.

1.

inclofe in a coffin.
Would'ft thou have laugh'd had I come nfiti'd

Pr'nr.

Rcniriiing, gniihes the day.

COG

n.f. [In law.] Is he that
pafleth or acknowledgeth a fine in lands

or tenements to another.

COGNI'TION.
Knowledge
I, will not

1

:

nor have eogiiiiion

am all patience.

Shakejpearc'i Troilus and Crefftda.
Cod, as he created all things, fo is he beyond
and in them all
not only in power, as under his
;

fubjc^ion ^ or in his prefence, as in his cognition i
but in their very elfcncc, as i:j the foul of their
caufalitics.
Brcii-ns Vulgar Errours.

Co'gnitive. adj. [fiom ccgnitus, Latin.
Having the power of knowing.
Unlefa the unuerftanding employ and excrclfeits
cognitive or apprchenfivc power about thefe terms,

there can be no actual apprch'.:nfion of them.
South'! Sermons.

Co'gnizable. etdj. [cogrtoifable Fr.]
1. That falls under judicial notice.
,

Liable to be tried, judged, or exa-

2.

mined.
Some are merely of ccclcr:;jftlcal cognizance j

[{rom cogito, Latin.]
That which may be thought on ; what
may be the fiibjeft of thought.
adj.

Gogita'tion. »./. [cogitatio, Latiti.j

Cotuell.

[cognitio, Latin.]

complete conviftion.

;

be mylclf,

Of what I feel

Skinner.

To CO'GITATE. m. n. [cogito. Lat.] To
think.
Din.

n. f.

others of a mixed nature, fuch as are ccgnixalle

both in the ecclefialtical and fecular courts.
Ayliffe's

Parergon,

Co'gnizance. n.f. [conncifancr, Fr.]
I.

judicial notice; trial; judicial auttio*
rity.

C O H

C O H

It is worth the wbitcj however, to eonCJcf how
¥.*c

may diicountenance and

TVCOHE'RE. v.n. [coUree, Latin.]
Cohe'sion. »./. [from echere.^
To flick together to hold ftil one to 1. The aft of flicking together.

prevent thofc evils

which the law can talce no co^wzanff of.

« .

L'EJlr.

another, as parts of th^ fame mafs.

citgrhianceof.

a£ily plain,

it

up tor the c-igjlddijen.

And at the king's going away the earl's fervants
a fecmiy manner, in their livery coats,
with eogrtlxjrces, ranged on both fides, and made
the king a bow.
Bacca'i Iknry VII.
Thele were the proper eognixaitces and coat-arms
of the tribes.
Brouit'i yuhar Erroun
ftood, in

[cognomen, Lat.]

Having the fame name.
tur-.»

on earth, than they on earth the conftellawhich pafs under animal names in heaven

not the dog-filh at fea much more make nut the
dog of the land, than his ccgmm'mal or namefakc

To be well connefted

2.

3.

To fuit

4.

To agree.

Solids and fluids difl^er in the degree of eibcjten,
which, being increafcd, turns a fluid into a folid.
Arhuibvpt on jil'tmcms,
2. The ftate of union or infeparability.
What caufe of their cohift^n can you find?

What props fupport, what chains the fabrick bind ?
Biackmvre.

;

;
to fit ; to be fitted to.
Had time «A«r'<< with place, or place with wiih-

ing.

Staieffeare.

Conneftion ; dependence.

3.

Pcfit Dur.eiaJ.
to follow re-

gularly in the order of difcourfe.

Nor do thofe animals more refemble the creationJ

together touch in a few
muft be ieparable by lefs force than
breaks a folid particle, whofe parts touch in all
the fpace between them, without any pores or interftices to weaken their cohrjicn.
Nrtiton'i Opt.
points, and

polite, and applied to each other in
fuch a manner as to intercept the air, do nbtre
firmly together as one.
ff^oaJviarJ.
We find that the force, whereby bodies cebcre,
is very much greater wlien they cjme to injmediate contaS, than when they are at ever fo fmall
a finite diftance.
Cheyre's Pbihfifhical Frirciflet.
None want a place ; for all, their centre found.
Hung to the goddefi, and cohered around ;
Not clofer, orb in orb conglob'd, are feen
The buzzing bees about tlieir du/ky queen.

A badge, by which any one is known.

COGNCyMINAL. adj.

Hard particles heaped

Two pieces of marble, having their furface ex~

Satih.

eircumftances wanting to work
n\T.arct of the law.

'

;

Happincfs or mifery, in converfe with others, depends upon things which humaa lawj can talce no

The moral crime is completed, there are only

2.

C O I

In their tender years, ideas that have no natural
cobcjion come to be united in their heads.

Locke.

Cohe'sivb. adj. [from cohere.] That lias
the power of flicking to another, and of
refilling feparation.

Cohe'siveness. «./ [from coheji-ve.] The
quality of being cohefive

;
the quality
in the heavens.
Brmot'i fulgar Ertsurz. Cohe'rence.
1
r r
r
of refifting feparation.
Cocnomlva'tion. n./. Iccgnonun, La- CoHE'RENcy. j
"--^ [ccUrenCa. Latin.]
To Cohi'bit. -v. a. [cohii-eo, Lat.] To
tin.]

A furnarae the name of a family.
2. A name added from any accident or
1

quality.

divulfion and feparation ; nor can
be feparated by the fame force by which
they might be fimply moved, or, being
only laid upon one another, might be
parted again.
^incy.
The preHure of the air will not explain, nor can
refift

Pompey dafervcd the name Ctera : Alexander,
of the fame cogrcmimttion, was generaliflimo of

COGNO'SCENCE. »./

Bmi:n.
[cogiu/co.Lit.]

Knowledge ; the ftate or adt of knowings
Difl.

themfelves.

and

I .

that h ly thing.

't»

Hooker, Prefect.
between fermont and faith (hould thcie \>c
ordinarily that cohtrenct, which caufes have with

Why

To live together as hulband and wife.

their ufual effeits?

Coha'bitakt. n.f. [from eobabit.'^ An
inhabitant of the Jiime place.

Tbe opprefled Indians protc.'l againll that heaven where the Spaniards are to be the'it ahMtanti.

Ccbirtncc

Cohabita'tion. *./ [from re/W///.]
The aifl or ftate of inhabiting tlie fame
1
2.

The ft,iie of living together as married
perfons.

difcourfe, and a dire^ tendency of
it to the argument in hand, arc

moil eminently to be found in him.
Locke's Prtfacc 10 St. PauPt EfiJlUi.

Sticking together, fo as to refift fepara-

I .

tion.

,

By coagulating and diluting, that i:, making
their parts more or Icfs toktrtnt.
Arhutb. on Al'-.m.

Which dcfefl, though it could not evacuate a
marriaje after ccbatiraikr, and aflual confumma-

Where all mud full, or not nbcrtnt be;

tion, jet it was enough to make void a contract.

Biitm't Henry Vll,

MonGeur Brumari, at on; hundred and two
yeatt, died for love ol his wife, who was ninety-

P'ifi't EJfay on Man.

t.

Lat.]
One of
an inheritance i.<

Married perfons, and -Aidows, and virgins, arc
in the inheritance of Jcfus, if thoy live
with;ntht lawsof ilicirel.aw. '/^yhrilhly Lniing,

all r«ifir«

Cohe'iress. «./. [from coljeir-l

A wo-

man who has an equal fiiare o<"an inheritance with other women.

Vol. 1.

riours.
Th' arch-angelic pow'r prepar'd
For fwift defc"nt ; with him the cobcrt Bright
watchful
cherubim.
Of
Milton's Paradife I-ifi,
9 Here Churc'nill, not fo prompt
To vaunt as fight, his hardy «/i(j/-rr join'd
With Eugene.
PhUips's Blevhcim.

Cohorta'tion. n.f.J_coPjortatio, Latin.]
Encouragement by words ; incitement.

COIP, n. J', [coeffe, French from cofea,
for cucufu, low Lat.]
The head-drcfs ;
;

'I'ht juJges of tlie four circuits in Wales, although they are not of the fiift mijjtutude, nor

ne::d be of the degree of the oif, yet are they

of aiready, to that -.vhich lies next, and
and fo on to what it aims at.
Locke.

3.

divided.

[In poetical language.] Abodyofwar-

fjderablc.

is cobrrfiit to it,

[tohcrret,

among whom

and enfigns, from hence, as from any of their provinces.
Camden.

The mind proceeds from the knowledge itflands
poflelli-d

'i'lUUr.

feveral

A

Connefted ; united.

two at her death, after Icventy jcjis aietitiitkn.

Cohf/ir. ». /

Cremi's Mu'gum.

[colon, Latin.]
troop of foldiers in the Roman armies, containing about five hundred foot.
The Romans levied as many cohorts, con^panies,

a lady's cap ; the ferjeant's cap.

And ail that rifcs,'tilc iii due degree.

'

*

oi'

tbe parts of

Cohe'rent. adj. [cohetrens, Latin.]

•

to reftore the digeftlvc fa-

culty.

2.

4. Confiftency in reafoning, or relating,
fo that one part of the difcourfe does
not deftroy or contrudidl the reft.
all

Lotkt.

of ufe

^

naturally.

Dscay tf PirlJ.

is

Co'hort. n.f.

one part follows another regularly and

Eiitdtt^s Serrn'r:.

again.

tized fpirit,

Honier.

_

it

This oil, dulcified by cohohattm with an aroma-

The texture of a difcourfe, by which

3.

had a delign to (chabit with her as fuch.

place with anoiher.

OJiihation is the pouring tlie liquordlflilled from
any thing back upon the remaining matter, and
diftilling

be no trouble to find each controverfy's
refting- place, and the «i«Tf»«i; hath with things,
either on which it dependeth, or which depend on

South.

He knew her not to be hi» own wife, and yet

Bimlty.
the relation

It Aiall

To dwell with another in the fame place.

A

returning any dillilled liquor again up.
on what it was drawn from, or upon
frefli ingredients of the fame kind, to
have it the more impregnated with their
virtues.
^tincy,

of parts er things one to another.

[cohatito, Latin.]

The Phiiiftincs wcic worlled Ijy the captivated
ark, which foraged their country more than a conquering army : they were not able to cchabit wiOi
a.

Connexion; dependency;

2.

Hale'i Origin I,/ Munk'wil.

To COHA'BIT. V. n.

the blood with the trefh aliment. Arbuik.onAlim,

Cohoba'tion. n.f. [from cohobatg.'\

ioi,(,.

tine morion.

in things natural,

ccgr.cJciHr

Ditl.

The juices of an animal body are, as itflvere,
ctbciated, being excreted, and admitted again irt«

Matter is either fluid or folid ; words that may
comprehend the middle degrees between extreme
fixcdnefs and cphenrcy, and the moft rapid intef-

knowledge.
The Cimc that it fald for the redundance of matters inte.ligible

reftrain ; to hinder.

To CO'HOB.4TE. "j. a. To pour the diftilled liquor upon the remaining matter,
and diftil it again.

be a caufc of, the ecberaut of tbe particks of air

CocNo'sciBLE. adj. [cognD/co, Lat.] That
may be known j being the olyeft of

may be applied to things artificial.

-1

That ftate of bodies in which their
parts are joined together, from what
caule foever it proceeds, fo that they

1.

;

f^fi:".

•

•

/.

Suitable to fometbing elfe ; regularly
adapted.

con
Bacon s Advice to l^ilRci 1

No

lefa a man than a btother of the coif hi^^ctv
his fuil, b^'ore lit bad been a (v/clvero'inth at the

Temple.

.

Addifcn, SfcQalor.

Inftcad of home-fpun /ci/i were fien

Cood pinners edg'd with colbertine.

Swift.

InftruA my daughter,
That time and place, wiilithis deceit fo lawful,
ly prove coherent. Stak. M'lmell thai ends trc'.l,

Co'i Ft D. adj. [fiom^w/.] Wearing a coif.
Co'ivvvtiZ.<n>/, \_cceff'urt, Fr.j Head-

4. Confiftcnt ; not contradiftory to itfelf.
A eohireni thinker, and a ftrifl rcafnner, is not

with the c.ijfuri now in fi^ion,
and think it (licws the gojd Jtrile of tlic v.; .bio

M

to be made at once by a fct of rules.

K'alli'i Leg.

' ^-i

drefs.
I

am

pleafrJ

part of the fcx.

"

X X

Ailc'iin.

C010;:a.

C O I
CoiGicB. *./ [An Iri(hicnn,asUfccm5.]
Fiti Thomas of DclVnonU began that extortion
of roi^nr and livrr)-, and pay; that is, he and hi$

Co'iKAOE.

Uionyfius, a Creek cointr of etymologies, it
C.jntdcn's Remains,
commended by Atb.cnxus.

j4rbutbr::t.

To Cojo'tv. f. ». [cmjunge, Lat.] To join
with another in the fame office.

Coin ; money ; (lamped and legitimated

2.

Nojuaing frinc,
ceig^ne ot"

metal.

vantagr, but this bird

ftone ?

Shakcfftare.

A wooden wedge ufed bv printers.

To COIL. 1/. a.

[cutiUir, Fr.] To gather
into a narrow com pals ; as, to coii a
rope, to wind it in a i ing.
The lurking particles of air, (o expanding themfelves, muft ncceSarily plump out tlw fides of jhe
bladde-, and fo keep them turgid, until tht: preffiril coikd them, be re-adBaylt.
mitted to do the fame thing again.

trait.

who WIS fo firm, fo conllant, that this csil
Shakefp. temfiji.

You, miftrels, all this en/ is 'long a£.you. Shak.
In that fleep uf death, what dreams may come,
When we have Ihuffled o(i this mortal ciil,
MuH give us paufe.
Shakcjfeart'i Hamlet,

A rope wound into a ring.
Coin. n. f. \coign!, French.]

Forgery; invention.

5.

Sbaktfpeare's Ttvelfth Night,
my niece,
CoiT. «./. [.fc/^, a die, Dutch.] A thing

thrown at a certain mark. Sec Quoit.
The time they wear out at coits, kayles, or the

I cannot but admire that philoflphers fliould
imagine frogs to fill from the clouds, confidering
how openly they aft their coition, produce fpawn,
tadpoles, and frogs.
Ray on the Creation,
He is not made ptoduftive of liis kind, but by
Grew*s CcfmoUgia,
coitir.n with a female,

gether.
By Gilbertus

To concur

to be confiftent with.
;
The rules of right judgment, and of good ra-

tiucioation, often coincide with each other.
tyatts's Loritk.'

Coi'ncidence. n. /. [from ccinciJe!\

COIN. n. /. [by fome imagined to come

falling

Co K E

motion

is termed ccititm, not

n.f. [ Perhaps from coquo. Skinner. ]
Fewel made by burning pit-coal under
earth, and quenching the cinders ; as
charcoal is made with wood.
It is fre-

upon the fame point.

An univerfal equilibrium, arifiiig from the coincidence of infinite centres,

this

rrade by any faculty atcraftive of one, but a fyn.
drome and concnurfe of each. Brown*t yulg. Err,

The ftate of feveral bodies, or lines,

1.

from cuneus, a wedge, becaufe metal is
cut in wedges to be coined.]
I. Money itamped with a legal impref-

The ad by which two bodies come to-

2,

Cbtjne.

earth ufelcfs.

[ra/>/», Latin,]

Copulation; the 3(51 of generation.

1.

If the equator and ecliptick had coincided, it
would have rendered tlie annual revolution of the

Carcw^s Survey of Ccrnvail,

like idle cxcrcJfcs.

To COlNCrbE. V. n. [ceincii/o, Latin.]
To fall upon the fame point ; to meet
1
in the fame point.

A corner

any thing Handing out angularly ; a
fquare brick cut diagonally : called often
quoin. Or quint.

He 's a cdward and a coifirit, that will not drink
to

Shakefff^rt' s Hamhi.

Is very cvinniny in.

A

covyard ; a runaway :
corrupted from ktfirtl, a mean or degenerate hawk.

Co'iSTRiL. n.f,

Coi'tion, »,/,

This is the very coinage of your brain;
Thisbodikfs creation ecfticy

2.

2.

Bro-wn,

,

Unncceifary toinag', as-wdl as unnecclTary revival of words, runs into aUeftatioo ; a fault to
be avoided on cither hand.
Dryden's fuvenal. Dedication.

Coil. »./. [hlleren. Germ.]
1. Tumult; turmoil; buftle ; flir ; hurry;
confufion.

Thou may'ft cjAn with fomething, and thou
- doft.
And that beyond commiflion. Sbak.Txoe'f. Night,

fome Jews,

Moor was forced t» leave off coining, by the
^eat crowds of people continually oftcring to reSwift.
turn hh coinage upon him.
3. The charges of coining money.
4. New produdion ; invention.

furc c;' thie air, that at

Would not infedt his rcafon.

to be a ccinage of

This is conceived

in derlfion of Chiillians, who firll began that por-

H.'Ch niJilc his pendant bi:<l.
Sbakiff-Macbtih,
See you yond' »iii u' ta' capitol> yond* corner

2.

An inventor.

3.

and .1 don't find that they bad
a publick trial, as wc fulcmnly practifein this country.

A corner.

A counterfeiter of the king's ftimp |
a maker of bafe money.

2.

The care of tnt ttmage was committed to the in-

COIGNE. »./ [French.]
Buttriccy nbr

[from «/'».]

ferior magiftrates;

David 9rt Inland,

at plcafure.

n,/.

The art or prattice of coining money.

1

army took hutfe meat and itiaa*s meac» and moneyy

1.

COL

C O I

.

quently ufed in drying malt.

can never be naturally
Btntlcy.

Co LANDER, n,/. icolo, to ftrain, Lat.]

Concurrence ; confillency ; tendency of

acquired.

He gave Dam:tas a good fum of gold In ready
tux, wltich Mcnalcas had bequeathed.
SiJiuy,

many things to the fame end ; occurrence of many things at the fame time.

A fieve either of hair, twigs, or metal,
through which a mixture to be fep,arated
is poured, and which retains the thicker

You have made
Your holy hat be ilamp'd on the king's ri>iif.

The very cojicurrencc and coincidence of fo many
evidences that contribute to the proof, carries a
Jiaic.
great weight.

parts ; a ftrainer.
Take a thick woven ofier colander.
Thro' which the prclfed wines are ftralned clear.

2.

fion.

Sbaie/fcare's HinryVlll.

/

I cannrit tdl how the ports will fuccecd in the
explication of r&ivs, to which they ate generally
Tcry great Itrangcrs.
AJdipn.
She nnur cootraOs her raft defign,

And all her triumphs ihrink into a aiv.
z. Payment of any kind.

I'o
1.

It is followed by •with.
The C'/iricidencc of the planes c^f this rotation
tvitb one another, and with the plane of the eclip-

1

Thefe

circles I

viewed through a prifm ; and,

as 1 went from them, they came nearer and nearer

To mint or flatnp metals for money.

together, and at length became coincident.
Nrtuton's Optich.

Shakejpearc.

They never put ij pradlce a thing fo neceffary
»s f»i(H./ money is.
Ptacbam. of Antiquities.
Te.iants cannot «i« rent juft al quarter- day, but

mud g.ither it by degcees.

Locke.

Can IK be fure that this medal was really camel
by an artificer, or is but a produit ofthe foil from
whejice it was taken ?
Bcniley.

To make or invent.
My lungs
Wh.ch we difd;iin ibould teCer u5.
Sbjke/fieare^s Coriolanus.

To make or forge any thing,, in an ill
fenfe.

•

Concurrent;

equivalent:

followed by luith.
Chriiiianlty teaches nothing but

what

is

per-

Cola'tion. n.f. [from colo, Lat.] The.
art of filtering or ftraining.

Co'i.ATURE.

Go, hang out an old fvilbneer gorget, with a^
yard of yellow ctltcrtitu again.
C-.ngrc'jc's IVay oflbefPirUt.
DifTrcncc rof* between
Mechlin, the <iucen of lace, and CJtcrtine, Vcunr,

with that controverted palTage in his difcourfe to
Bcniley.

.and
Latin.] Many fymptoms betokening the fame caufe.
Co'iNER. n.f. [from «/«.]
maker of money ; a minter; a HamI.
n. /.

[from

coit

indico,

Co'i.coTHA». n. /.

Thofc motives induced Virgil Cu cnn his fable,
Drydca.

Some tale, fome new pretence, he daily (und,

To footh his filter, and delude licr mind.
DrydetCt yifgil.
una it ceimJ to make the conveyance cily.
jitliriury.

^incv.

vitriol.

A

When I was llatnpt

A term- in chymiftry.

Col othar is the dry fubftance which remains alter
d liiUa.ion, but commonly the caput mortuam of
Colcothir, or vitriol burnl,thou>ilt unto a rednc^,

containing the fixed fait, will make good ink.

My father was 1 know not where

T« make the knight o'ercome the giant. HuJiirat.

[from co/o, Lat.]

by women.

fcQIy fijicable to and coincident iviih the ruling principles of a virtuous and well inclined man. Scatb.
Thcfe words of our apollc arc exadlly coincident
the Athenians.

tt.f.

The art of ftraining ; filtration.
2. The matter ftrained.
Co'lbektine. n,/. A kind of lace worn
1.

per of coin.

Never coin a fjrmal lye on 't,

A

2.

confiftent;

Coindica'tion.

Cain words til! their decny, agalnll thofe meafles

J.

Falling upon the fame point.

CoiK. v. a, [from the noun,]
They cannot touch me for coining: I am the

2.

Ray en the Creation,

The brains from »ofe and m^uth, and cither car,
Came KTuing forth, as through a colander
The curdled milk.
Drydnr.

Coi'ncident. adj. [from coincide,']

Hammoitd^s FunJamtnta/s,

king.

All the vifcera of the body are but as fo many
colanders to feparate feveral juices from the blood.

tick, is vear near the truth.
Cbcyne's Pbihfophieal Principles.

Pcft,

The lofs of prefent advantage to flefti and blood,
is repaid in a nobler coin.

3.

:

fome coiner with his tools

Male me a counterfeit.

Sbakifpeare's Cynibeline.

It is eafy to find defigns that never entered into

the thoughts of the fculptor or the coiner.
jiddiftn on Medais.

There arc only two patents referred to, Iwth Icfs
advantageous to the ainer dun llii& ot \Vo')d.
Svtif'.

BmvK,
German.]
not warm; gelid; wanting

COLD. adj. [colb, Saxon
1,

; k.->li,

Not hot ;
warmth; being without heat.

TJic diet in the ftato of manhood ought to be
foUd ; and their chief drink water cold, becaufc in
fudi a iUce it hat its own natural fpirit,

ArbutkM ia Aliments,
Ths

She made it gwd

The aggregated foil
~I)eath, Vtth his mace petrifick, cM, and dryi
Millori.
As with a trident, fmote.

Some better &r<mdf ..jvne better warmth, to cherifh
Our limbs bcnnnib'd, ere this diurnal (tar
Leave cnld the night, how we his gathered beams
Jiiihcn.
Reft-^^ed may with matter fere foment.
3. Chill; (hivering; having fenfe of cold.

(lay

Having cold qualities ; not volatile;

cM

Bamr's Natural Hijl'.ry.

wanting paffion ;
wanting zeal ; without concern ; unaftive ; unconcerned ; wanting ardour.

Drydct!,

How turnips hide their fwelling heads below.
And how the clofing ro/t-iuflrri upwards grow. Cay*

When flic faw her lord prepar'd to part,

A difeafe caufed by cold

3.

lion of perfplratlon.

What difeafe haft thou

A whorefon cold. Sir

eiample, that ne^er were hurt by reading books.
AJtkam.
Temp'ratcly proceed to what you would
Sir, thefe caW ways,
Thus violently redrefs.
That fccOT like prudent helps, are very poifinous.

;

the obftruc-i

;

?—

a cough.

Shakejpcare.

Their cM intent, Aenour, and fubftance thus ;
Here doth he wifti his perfon, and his power.

*.

Shak. Henry IV.

Co'ldly. aJ-v. [irom'eoU.']

The which he coulJ not levy. Shaliff. Henry IV.

1.

We (hould not, when the blood was aid, h3\ c

2.

Without heat.
Without concern ; indifferently; negligently ; without warmth of temper or

thieatencd our prifoners with the fword.
Shakfjpeare^i Cymbeline*

A

to be treated with the ordinary hyftcricks.
4.
nervous col'ick, which is from convullivc fpat'msand
contortions of the guts themfelves, from foms diforders of the fpirits, or nervous fluid, in their

cxpreffion.
What England fays, fay briefly, gentle lord ;

To fee a world in dames, and an hod of angels
in the clouds, one mud be much of a ftoick to be

component fibres ; whereby their capacities arc ia

We coldly paufe for thee. Shakefpcare'i King'Jchn.

a tM andnuKoncerned fp^fbtor.
Burntt'i Pnfjcr ti ibtThciry if tht Earth.

many places flreightened, and fometime^ fo as to

Swift fecm'd to wonder.what he meant,
Norwould believe my lord bad fent j
So never oftcr'd once to ftir,

No drum or trumpet needs

1

this is beft reoccafion obftinate obftruftions
medied by brilk catharticks, joined with opiates
:

,

.

T' infpire the coward, or to warm the cdj-y
Hii voice, his fole appearance, makes ciiem bold.

But i-jy/y faid, Your fer*ant, Sir.

and emollient diluters.

Svlifl.

And my aid heart is kindled at thy flame. Rnm.
A man mift be of a vry (c/J dr degenerate tem-

colkk, by confent of parts, fron? the irritation ot"
the ftone or gravel in tVc bladdof or kidneys ; and
this ismoft commonly to be tr/ited by ncphritick*

fenfation of cold.

and oily JiurcticUs, .tnd is grjitly aflifted with t.le
Sliijncy,
carminative turpentine clyftors.
Cclicks of infants proceed from acidity, and ih-air
the aliment expanding itfelf, while the aliment ferments.
Aihudtict*

He relates the exc'cHiTe'-h>il/«^'*Jf tfttf 'vatir

per, whofe heart d^rh not br.rn vvirli'n him in the
midllof praife and adoration., Milifiti'i yrctholdir.

they met with in furnvner in that icy regioiH where
Boyh't Ex/'tnmcntt.
they were forced to \»inter.
Such was the difcord, which dtJ firlt difpcrle

UnafFeding; unable tO: move the paf-

m

'

'I

Form, order, bea-jty, throUj^h tlie uiiivcrle j
While drfwr*»oM*Jrfi <«^«t/i hei)t relics,
All that we have, and that wc aVe, fi^fifts.
4

What a deal of told bufincfs doth a man taif[>end'

perleam.,

B<n 'Jonf.n.

Dirifions of

The
co/</.T

8.

.

..

,

!

SLakcJpeart^t Kitt^Lear*

cotnmiflioners grew
towards ea'-h other.

more

rcfcrved,

and

C/artndon.

ChaAe ; not heated by vitious appetite.
You ni.ty

Convey your pleafures in a fpa*.ittus plenty^
And yet fcem fcW, the time ynu inav in iioodwink
We've willing dames enough. Shaltff>. Matteih.
9. Not welcome ; not received with kind-

bed friends.

M) mailer's fuit Will be but <ild.
Since Ihe rcrpefc^'> /ny miftrcfe' lov.
Shohcjjirvn'i Tifi Gtrtlemen of Ver/na.i

Not haft)'; not •violent.

1 1* jNot affefUHj^the fccnt ilrohgl/.

'

paiUon.
Unhappy youth

'

jfraflti

I.

A ring of metal put round the neck.
That 'a

fays the dog, but the fretting
nay, fays the wolf, if there be a

notjiini;,

of my collar t

etllar in the caft, i fcnov/ better things than to fell

mj'liberty.

of,

VEJirahge.

'

Tin tiratc jnd'more nf greyhounds
With (joldcn muizlcs all their mouths were bound.
And ,i;//d«of the fi.Tie their nicks furrnund.
;

!

how will thy coldnefi taifc

Tempefts and dorms In his alfliftcd bofoni

Drydeii's FtHes*

Add^on^t Ca!o*
Lettv'ry t«hguc its v^ious €cnfur«s chufe,
AbfolvcWitb cslJnefi, or with fpite actufc. frior.

•r.

to cloie fo

2. The ilate of veflels clofed.
.CO'LLAR. n.f. [col/are, Latin.]

Artuihnot.;

^

Coynefs; want of kindnefs j

3.

;

Coi, I, A'psio.it. n.f. [from colletf/e.'\
1. The afl of clofing or collapfing.

j

nefs or warmth of afFeftion.

10.

men prefumc tliem-

b"t tlicy are alfo,' fyr tlic mo/t
part, hotlicr prnfctut^d : forafmueh as' ri./:i'»ir/i,
ohich, in other corttcntions, may be thought toj
proceed from Inodcrstii^n, isflotin thefe fqtavpu-Hi:iker\ Dcdic^fi'yri,
ablv condrucd.
if, upon reading admired paflages in authors, he
finds a coldneft and indifference in his thou^lit;,
lie ought to conclude, (that he himfclf want; the
j^dd'ijon.
faculty of difcovering them.
It betrayed ItfeJf in a fort of indiffcrcrce and
carcl-nViefs in all her a^ioiiar and cdineji t6 her
fcVvcs iatereftcd ;

7. Refert-ed ; coy ; not affeftionatej nptj
_
cordial ; not friendly.

To fall together

Latin.]

Milisu*

[ccllabor, collapfusy

as that one fide touches the other.
'"
In confumptioni and atrophy tlic liquids are exhauflftd, and the ^dc5 or* the canals ccltapje ; thercfore the attritfoh is incrtafed, and confe<iuently
tiie heat.
Arbuthnot on Diet*

religion are not only the ftirthcft

fpre.id, bccaufe in religion all

jiildijrm'on Italy*

le Golla'pse.. t. ».

Unconcern ; frigidity of temper ; want
of zeal; negligence; difregard.

2.

but thejeft grriws V^/i/ evin with them'
too, when it comes on in a fccond fcene.

difguife;

Among you.

Inteflinc hon<: a:id ulcer, colirk pangs.

.

The rabble are pleafcd at the firft entiy of a

i

Co'lick, adj.. Affefting the bowels.

,

the better part of life in r In kattering compti
Dients, u-iwcriagviCts, foU::wing fealis and pU)^;

There is alfo a fpecies of

this diftemper which is commonly called the ftone

Cq'l Dx ESS. w. /[from «/'/.]
1. Want of heat; power of caufmg the

Dtyden,
O, thou haft toucb'd ise with thy (acred theme.

but loofely,

It ftriftly is a dilorder of the colon ;

any difordcr oi the flomach or bowcb that is attended with pain.
There arc four forts
i. A bilious col'iik, which proceeds from an abundance of
acrimony or choler irritating the bowels, fo as to
occafion continual gripes, and generally with a
loofcnel's ; and this is bell managed with lenitives
and emollients.
2. A flatulent col'ick, which is
pain in the bo>vels from flatufes and wind, which
diftend them into unequal and unnatural capacities ; .and this is managed with carminatives and
moderate openers.
3. An hyKerical colUk, which
aiilcs from difoiders of the womb, and is communicated by coni'ent of parts to the bowels ; and is

Let no ungentle cold deftroy
Rofcommon.
All tafte we have of heavenly joy.
Thofe rains, fo covering the earth, might providentially contribute to the difroption of it, by
ftopping all the pares and all evaporation, which
would make the vapours within llruggle violently,
Buinef.
as wc get a fever by a cold*

New dated letters thefe,

.

A

A deadly cMrin (hiv'ring to her heart. Dryd. Fjh. Co'lick. n. f. \colicus, Latin.]

by your

.

Msrtimer.

The decoction of colcworu is alfo commended to
M'ifcman of an Eryfipeiis.
bathe them.
She took the fo/fworfi, which her huibaiid got
From his own ground (a fmall wall-watcr'd fpot)
Slie rtripp'd the ftalks of all their leaves; the belt
She cull'd, and then witKhandy care flic drefs'd.

nefs.

Ih'kfr^s Ft-tface,

Let hit knights have cMcr looks

or barley, and then

The fenfation of cold } coldnefs; chil-

2.

There fprung up one kind nf men, with whofe
zeal and fotwardncfs the reft being compared, were
thought to be marvellous ecid and dull.

fions.

colrjeed

Co'i.EwoRT. n. /. [caplpyrit. Sax.]
fpecies of cabbage.

Scarce tolerable, and from the north to call
Decrepit winter, from the fouth to bring
Milltm.
SollVitial fummer's heat.

frigid ;

bat

wheat.

corr.cth. or feek it in deep caves, or high

The fun

fooner find a little warmth than an hot*

religion,

till it

Had firft his precept fo to move, fo fliinc.
As might affect the earth with cMurA heat

Co'd plants have a quicker perception of the heat
hand will
of the fun than the hot herbs ; as a

6.

Where land is ran!;, it is not good tofowwiieat
after a fallow;

mountains : and, when all is done, we cannot obBaceiit Nat. H'tfiwy.
tain it in any great degree.

not acrid.

•-

Cabbage feed.

;

Sbakefpeare^i Henry V.

ca/./ in

n. /. [capl,

:

All out of Work, and c:ld for aAion.

Infinite /hall be made

A

general
Saxon.]
name fer all forts of cabbage.
Co'leseed. «. /. [from cole and y?#</.]

Heat and cold are nature's t^vo hands, » herehy
and heat we have in teadiShe chiefly worketh
but for cold, we mull
nefs, in rcfped: of the fire

And let another ha.f Sand laughing by.

Indifferent ;

Pope's Windfor Forcjt.

COLE.

Shakejpiare.

Fair lined flippers tor the ca/J.

With half thf ir forces, the fu.l power of France j

5.

For ever murmurs, and for ever weeps.

/

O noble £iigli{h, that could entertain.

4.

The filver ftream her virgin coldnefz keeps,

Smell this bulinefs with a fenSe as co/d

As is a dead man's nofe. Shakeff. iV'nuri TaleCold. ».
[from the adjeftive.]
1. The caufe of the fenfation of cold ; the
privation of heat ; the frigoriCcit power.

Bids us feek

exemption from vehement

4. Chaftity ;
defire.

At the hedge corner, in the coldeft fault. Stjiefp.
12. Not having the fenfe ftrongly aiFeded.

Caufmg fenfe of cold.

2.

COL

COL

COL

2*

The part of the harnefs that is fattened
about the horfe's neck.

X X 2

Hcf

'Til memory alone that enriehei tbe mind, bjr

They finj us'toucb'd, v« will our kingdom glye

To you in fatisfaClion.

preiferving ifhit oar labour and induAry datly <»/•

Sbai^ftart.

H'fiit,

6. Concurrent.
All the force of thf motive lies within itfelf : it

The part of the drefs that furrounds the

receives no ttlhtcral ftrengih from external onfi-

neck.

dciations.

3.

To get free; to Go L

To Jlip tf>e Cot LAR.

4.

engagement or difficulty.
Vv hen, as the ape him heiid fo much to talk

Of labour, that did from his liking biulk,
He would hivt Jlift the cellar haiidfomely.

.//Collar efBranxin, is the qaantity

the neck.

it

up, and bind it liard and clofe with a

COLLA'TE. v, a. [con/era, coUatam,'

with another.

well lollaled.

3.

No more amaiement.
I did in

;

to

Cmvell.

examine if ho4.

A repall

;

a treat Icfs than a feaft."

drcfs'd.

Stood in himfelf colledcJ, while each part.
Motion, each aCl won audience, ere the tongue
Sometimes in height began, as no delay
Of preface breaking through his teal of right.

Miken.

Co'l l e c t.

The figovricjnce of the facrament difpnfes the: Collati'tious. a.-//', [collatltius, Lat.]!
Done by the contribution of many."

lit or

4.

'

OoJ, tlvre conligned, exhibited, and cdhttd.

Dia.

With te.

To place in an ecdefiaftical CoLl a'tOR. n.f. [from collate.

benefice.

I.

He ihruft out the invader, »nd collattJ Amfierf'

z.

Jlylifft.,

CoLLA'TBR'At. ^VffMand /«rt(/,Lati]
In kia bright radiance and ttlUura! light
iji

his fphcre.

I

2.

The aft of deducing confequences ; ratiocination ;

difcourfe.

This fenfe is

now^carce in ufe.
If once

we defcend unto probable cj/iiMmt, we

are then in the territory

where free and arbitrary

determiiMtions, the territory where human laws
lake place.
//«oj(rr!
Thoumalt not peep thro' lattices of eyes.
Nor hear thro' labyrinths of ears, nor learn

Lat.]

To gather together; to bring into one
place.

Pricr.

Addijon.
3.

To COLLE'CT. -V. a. UoIUpo. colUaum,
I.

the things gathered.

The gallery is hung with a colleiliin of pictures*

Sbiikeff care's Hamlet,

Not direft ; not immediate.

;

Faireft ciilrfticn of thy lex's charms.

Ctlleagutd with this dream of his advantage,
He hath not fail'd to peller us with melTage,
Importing tbe furtender of thofe lands.

(

An affcmblage

No perjur'd knight defires to quit thy arms,

To unite with.

CODinionly rtyled tMaitrah, if there be no afccn-

;

Bn-wn'i l^ujfrar Emurt.

aI

Ti Colle'aoue. "v. a. [from the noun.]

bud

colUliible from the following wnrds.

Di^.

In genealogy, thofc that ftand in equal

ll by dttedt 01 by tillatiTsI

mifes by juft confcquence.
Whether tticreby be meant Euphrates, is rot

To

Eafy it might be feen that 1 intend
Mercy roHeagui with juftice fending thee. Milton.
The regents, upon demife of the crown, would
keep the peace without colUagaet.
Stvifi.

They fhalJ hear ar.d judge 'twixt you and (pi

Mere.
'\

Colle'ctiom. It. /. [{torn colUil.']
partner in office or employment.
An-|
1. The aft of gathering together.
cieiitly accented on the lail fyllable.

tivil law, given to fuch Hi are allied to him tx Itttrt,

5.

fented to God.

Ayhffe.

But man by number is to matifelV
and beset
t- 'u 01 his likr, his image mulnply'd
Au unity defective, which require!
Cfilaitral love and dcirell amity. Milt. Par. LoJI.

.^lifftt Parenon.

cofliiied.'^

Colle'ctible. adj. [from colUa That
which may be gathered from the pre-

join in praifing.

Hii- ingle imperfection ;

*eath.

[from

Gathered in one view at once.

benefice.
A mandatory cannot interrupt an ordinary collatur, till a month is expired frbm the day of pre.

CO'LLEAGUE. »./., [colUga, Lat.]

Running parallel.
3. Diffuitd on either fide.

dinu ot defctndants fiinriving at the time of his

Colle'ctedlv. adv.

The whole evolution of ages from everlafting to
rverlafting is fo ctileHedly and prefentifickly repre-

Te Colla'od. -v. a, [cellaujo, Lat.]

i,

relation to iome common anceftor.
The eftate and iehtritance of a perfon dying inieftatr, is, by right of devolution, according to the

tin.] Gathered up together ; collefted
;
notes compiled from various books.

"[

One who prefents to an ecclefiaiUcal

fentation.

Siaktff.

Thus ^ying, from hii raiUant feat lie rofe
Of high nOmtrnl glcry. " MUnn't Fartuliji iy?.

4.

Tayhr's Guide to Dewticm,

;

Side to fide.

Ma« 1 be comforted, not

proper (olUas.

compares copies or nanu-

fciipts.

tJon.

I.

that

n. f.

Collect A'NEOUS.tf<^'. [colUnaneus, La-

To read the tltbs they give an editor or collator
of a manufcript, you would take him for the glory
of letters.
MtHJcn.

the ben«fi«e: Luther performed the con(ccra.
Atttrbury.
If a patron (hjiU re^lea,to prefcnt »nto a benefice, voM above bx ni«ntht, the bifiiop may ctllaie

It

tberc»B(r.

One

A

[colUaa, low Lat.]
Ihort comprehenfive prayer, ufed at the
facrament ; any ihort prayer.
Then let your devotion be humbly to fay over

'

fpirit of the vcv:ver to admit the grace of the fpi-

time enlh^ mylelt", and thought

This was fo, and no (lumber. Hbak. ff^mter'i Tale,
Profperity unexpected often maketh men carelefsand remifsj whereas they, who receive a wound,
become more vigilant and colleBcd.
Haytutrd,
As when of old fome orator renown'd
In Athens or free Rome, wBcre eloquence
Flourifti'd, fince route, to fome great caufe ad-

'

BiOiops fhould be placed by ctllaticn of the king
under his letters patent, without any precedent election, or confirmation enfuing.
HaywarJ.,

thing be wanting.
5. To bcitow ; to confer.

Shake/peart' t ttmfefi,

Aftrighted much,

Inlaw.

patron's right for the time.

LkIc.

to gain command over his
thoughts ; to aflemble his fcntiments.
Be nlltlicd ;

and differs from inftitution in this, that inHitution
into a benefice is performed by the bilhop at the;
prefentatton of another who is patron, or hath the

They ciuld not relinijuilh their Judaifm, and
embrace Chrittijnity, without confidering, weighing, and ro/Z^irm; both religion;.'
S<mth.

crJhneil.

Ta Collect himftlf. To recover from
furprife ;

Ctllatlon is the bedewing of a benefice, by the
bilhop that hath it in his own gift or patronage j.

Bncin'i Natural lliftory.

To collate books

ill

5.

Pcfe.

Knowledge will be ever a wandering and Indigerted thing, if it be but a commixture of a few
notions that are at hand and occur, and not ricitrd
from a fuflicienc number of inftances, and thofc

2.

nite fpace, becaufe they can have no idea of infinite matter; which cbnfequence, I conceive, isveiV

Crrw^i Cojmrlogla.
I return you your Milton, which, upon cn/Zdritn,
I find to be revifed aiid augmented in fcveral places.

To compare one thing of the fame kind

Decay of P'utf.

They conclude they can have no idea of inii-

In the difquifition of truth, a ready fancy !s of
great ufe j provided that collation doth its office.

Latin.]
1

his difciplei.

Ray en the Cretttkn.
2. Comparifon of oBe copy, or one thing
of the fame kind, with another.

to roll

firing or collar.
7*0

Dryitei.

vation.

;

to gather

Hiw great the force of error.eoua pfrfuaSon it,

Neither are we to give thanks alone for the firft
ctlUikn of thcfe benefits, but a'fi> for their prefer-

throat.

;

wc may ».e//riff from our Savijur's premcnition to

gift.

.

To infer as a confequence
from premifes.

Colla'tion. n./. [collatit, La.t.J
1
The acl of Conferring or beuowing j

To Co'llar. •». a. [from the noun.]
To feize by the collar j to take by the
I

Co L L A R bnf, or other meat

Skake'ftare't linry VI.

4.

In collateral relation.

3.

H^ljcmiini Surgery.

To gain by obfervation.
The rev«rent care 1 bear unto my lord.
Made me oZ/nT-thefc dangers in the dulft.

I

fallibility in the private fpirit,

down,

bruifed his face, and broke his right (tVar-btnc.

9'e

htci*.

3-

have created two enemies : the papilh
more dirrdtly, becaufc tV.ey have kept tlie fcripture
from us ; and the fanaticks more cellttlrrjHj/, bccaufe they have aflumcd what amotmts to "--tn ;in-

bound up in one parcel.

.

bei as he pleafes, this multitude, how great fncvcr, lefl'ens not ooe jot tlu: power uf adding to it>

By aflertingthe fcripture tobe the canon of Our

Collar-bone. »./. [from coJlamndioiu.]
The clavicle ; the bones on each fide of

To draw many units, or numbers, into
one fum.
Let a man ctllcd into one fum as great a num*

yiticrbury.

I.

faith,

A p.igc riding behind the coach Ml

z.

2. Indireflly.

huhhcritt Tale.
5.

"

a't e r a l l y . adv. [ from ttUateral. ]
1. Side by fide.
'1
hcfe pullies may be miiltiplird according to
fundry different fitudtions, not only when they are
ftibotdinate, but alfo when tbcy are placed eiJlatera/ly.
mtkni.

efcape ; to difentangle hiuifelf from any

8

COL

COL

C O 1.
H»T wajjen (fK>kM wait of long fpinnert legi,
The traces ot tl.c fnullell fpider's web.
The (Ul(jri of the noonfliioe's watr) boms.

,

By circuit or (tlleaittti to difcem.

Dtiint

4.

A

cor,
4.

A corollary
premifes ;

a confeaary deduced from
dedudlion ; confequence.
;

circuraftances, were taken as
infinuatine an op.
pofite denial before that
circumftmce

CO'LLEGE. /,./

be aecorn-

A confmunity

1.

Ihohr.

Daviis.

\.

'"""" ofgovemment differ
only by

the civil adminiftration being in
the hands of one
or two, called kings; in a fenate,
called the nobles
or in the people cJUai-ve or

who

Stuift

habitant of a college ; a

1.

though

; not fingJy ; not numbered by individuals
; in
the aggregate ; accumulatively;

by one, both

Ice will diffolve in (ire, and
coHiauate In water
or warm oils.
Bro^u/,', r„!g„r Erro„r,.

Ghfs may be made by the bare cMquation
of
the f.i.t and earth remaining in the
alhes of aburnt

collegiate charch. was fuch as
was built
at a convenient diftance from

Boyle
LL
,
^rom
them
proceed rarefaftion,f3//;yM/;5,,concottioo, maturation, an4 moft effefts of

one that gathers fcattered
pieces into one book.

Melting;

[Fr. from eollum, Lat. the

Scintillations are not the accen{ion
Sf air

but inflammable e(Buencie«

dies collidii.

Co

tedious

1.

I.

L I E R . /r.

a diarrhaa, ot fwcats, from too lu
> contexture

of the fluids.

body are melted.

fire.

After the Incorporation of metals by (imple

upon

nature
and confcnts and diffcats of morals. It
would be
tried by incorporating of their diffolutions.

„

/ [from coal.]

,

».

A coal-merchant

; a dealer in coals.
knew a nobleman a great grafier, a

A

Md the nlUawi are appoiated by tU comm.f
*""*
Sviifi.

2.
j

The coal trade.

Bac(.,-! Phyfical Remaini.

»./ [from «//iy&. Latin.]

Theadt of ftriking two bodies togetlier.
Or, by coltifion of two bodies, grind

The air attrite to (ire.
nTJton'i Paradife Lojt.
The flint and the (tecl you may move apart as

great tim-

Co'r.LiERY. n.f. [from«///>r.]
1
The place where coals arc dug.

«///.

futfaffk.11, for the better difcovering of
the

from the bo-

b«rman.agreat«/&r, and agrcat landman.
Bacon.
ihip that carries coah.
3.

and othe?

^«r,r«..

Latin.] The aft of melting together
;
redu«ion to one mafj^by fluxion in the

•

difpofe/r.f!

burning colUquateie fewhereby the humours, far, and (ie(h of
the

A digger of coali; one that works in ^
COLLI siON.
1

«J^,;

Jt 13 a confe^uent of a

ver,

the coal-pits.
2.

\
*

diflblvent.

A colliquative fever is fush as is attended witfc

C0LLr«MjEPA CTION. «. / [colllfuefacio.

A term ufed by turners.

I

mft/Z',

A tax-gatherer; a man employed iii
levying duties or tributes.
The comrnifTions of the revenue are

Any kmd of univerfal diminution and colliquatkn of^the body.
Harwey on Conjumpihnu
C o L Lj <^u A T 1 V E . adj. [ from colliquote.

who

ToQoi.i.xr>z, -v. a. [colliJo, Lat.]
To
ftnke agamft each other ; to
beat, to
dalh, to knock together.

and perhaps confulted to
furnifh
materials for fome future colltflor.
Siuift

)av,(hed, and .eafted away by
»lUa„„

through the fecretory glands fafler than
they ought.
^incy.

a

IS fet.

3-

coll.fion

3.

Jyliffe', Partrgon.

That part of a ring in which the llonc

2.

;

as a

nature.
Bacon's Natural Hijlcrf.

Such a temjoerament or difpofition of
the animal fluids as proceeds from
a lax
compages, and wherein they flow off

neck.]
1. Anciently fomething
that went about
the neck ; fometimes the neck.

things together.

intiquatrd, will be only confidered

The ad of melting.

Jty„,^

Woodwari'i Natural Hijiory.

telaler of faOs,

Colliqj^-a'tion. n.f. [colliquatio, Lat.]

unto the ftate

t\vo univerfuics

Co'llet. n.f.

•oto ftantfug fpringt and rivers.

The beft Engli(h hiltorian, when his

are

hive got a receipt to pleafe;
and no clUgM, like
them, for purging the paffions.

frnxticiJUdhnh

rcflcftions.

diffolved.

college ; an univerfjty man.
Thefe are a kind of empiricks
in poetry,

,

1 he grandfather might be the firli „//eB,r
of
tt.tm into a body. Hai., C,mm,„
L.10 ,fEn^!a„d.
Volumes without the c<,lI,aor\ own

through a great heat from within, and
an ardent
colliquative fever.
/f„„.fy o„ Cor,fumfiio«,.

Containing a college; inftituted
after
the manner of a college.
I wi(h that yourfelves did
well confider how op.

congregation.'

all

A gatherer; he that coUcfts fcattered

removed
BiaU,

The fat of the kidneys ii apt to te coUiquareJ

Colle'ciate. ». / [from collegtA
A
member of a coUege j a man bred in

(hall be

The other part of the water was
condenfed" a't
the furface of the earth, and fent

A compiler

from the (ire.

church, wherein a number of
pre/byters
were fettled, and lived together in
one

means avoided. Hi.oi,r.
and apart many of them are
fubjeft to
•icfption, ytt r<V,iflk«^ they
make u. a good mo.

2.

The fire meltc-d the gljfs. that made a grdat

a cathedral

great aftual offences, as they offer themfelves
one

1.

La-

to diifolve j to turn from

ftew, after what was coW^uaial had been

college.

A

2.

taken
together ; in a Hate of combination
or
anion.
Although we cannot be free from
all (in «/.

COLLt'cTOR. «. / [colIiaor.L^nn.]

;

folid to fluid.

memter of a

ot colUguui: focietiea, whereanthe

In a general mafs ; in a body

,.

To melt

tin.]

polite certain of your pofitions

Colle'ctively. ai/a/. [from colkai'viA

nl evidence.

tin.]

Colle'ciate. adj.{colUgiatus, low La- ioyo LLity/ATE. 0/. n. To melti to be

itfelf be Angular ; as a company
; an army.

anJ ousht to be by
»^Singly

collijuatel]

melting or

diffolving.

college.

A colUai-ve noun is a

found in us, yet dilbibotively all

[from

To CO'LLIQUATE. -v. a. [collijueo.

Colle'cian. ,./ [from college.] An in-

m

adj.

Thn.t which has the power of

in the
Kings,

/•

ing to a college ; pofleffed by a

deducing confequences :
argumentative.
Am;,iity left many falfitie,
controulable not

I^ruth,, in fuch fort that no part
thereof

Co'lliquant.

Colle'gial. aJj. [ivoia college.-] Relat-

•

word which expreffes a multitude,

The fubftance to which any thing is reduced by being melted.

(ix

leaure read in publick.

cl't"

[In grammar.]

•

[from ceHijuafe.']

Colli c^ament. n.^. [from colliquate.l

n
Bacon.

ine houfe tn which the collegians
rende.
Huldah the prophetefs dwelt in Jerufalem
II

adj.

The tender confiftence renders it the more rs/.
hqu.-.bk and confumptive. Har'vij
on Corifumptiort.

.

•

of aiming.

Lafily diflblved; liable to be
melted.

llairyVlXl.

A
4. A college, in foreign univerfities, is a

and a «/-'
"' '*"'"' ' compound idea unites things
of a different kind ; but a c>U,ai-ve
idea, things of
the fame.
If,,..', r
,

3.

act

Sbaiefpeare.
,
,
order or fociety is fometimes called
Solo-

day s work.
'ru L
r

// «i

Z. fcmployed

;

would the ccUcgi of the cardinals

1 his

A body cilUliivt, it contaJneth a huge multi-

13r-,iuni Vulvar Ernun.

Co'LLKy/ABLE.

_,.

accumulative.

repreftntative,

bryj,„.

mon s houfe, and fometimes the alkre of the

•

«

„

knot,

the navel

COLLIMA , TiON.«./. [from foZ/Z/w, Lat.]

Would chufe hiin pope, and catry him to Rome.

French.]
Gathered into one mafs ; aggregated
'

a

ocean )ncd by the coiligMan <if veffels.

He is return'd with his opinions,
Gather'd from all the fam.ius coUegct
Aimoft in Chriftcndom. Shaktjtutre,

CoLLE'cTivE. ff,^-. Ifrom celUa ; nlkaif,

Thofe the midwife contriveth into
whence that tortuofity or nodofity in

1 he aft of aiming at a mark aim. DUi.
Collinea'tion.w./ [fo//w<7, Lat.] Ti.e

I

may be called the commons.
The difference between a compound

number of pcrfons

or religion.

oathered up.

'^'?*.,'''"^*

a

A fociety of men fet apart for learning,

2.

CoLLECTi'TJOfs. a^j. [colUattius, Lat.l

.,

;

On barbed (leeds they rode in prouJ array,

:

tude.

cabbage, and JlLer pn,"
P"'y ^-"^-^er.fA fpedes of cabbage,
r,
Colliga'tion. „./. [colligath Lat
Colliga'ti
] A
binding together.

Chambers,
Latin ]

[collegi,
^lum,

Th:ck as thtcdUgt of the bees in May.

Oath ring, from divers tights, one afl of
war j
From many csfes like, one tale of law

I.

..

cap!. S..x.

living by fome common rules.

This Ubel
.
Is fo from fenfe and ha.-dnefs,
that I can

Make mcolleahn of it. Shakcfpiart, Cymier.r^.
When (he, from fundryar s, one {kill d ,th draw:

The.* her coJ/tfihns, no: the fenfcs are.

Co'cM FLOWER. ,./ [J!os ir^r^c* from

Z:^r

gdom ot heaven to

Mievers i a thing in fueh fort affirmed
with

P''*"*-

A

fw
-l one or more otlier
common with
perfoas.

that when Chrift had overco.TC
the ftarpnefs of
death he then open. the ki.
'

C O L

[/'°'» "' am!
I"""- "V
^.^^g^^>'• Latin ] In the civil
fn'
'° "''^°"' '' ^'^\^ ^'^^'y '"

A?!

It (hould be a weak
ccliecihr. If whereas we fay,

a;l

\

COL

long a« you pleafe ; but it is the hitting
and colli.
fion of them that muft make them ftrike lire.
rry-t

2.

rt

Bentltym

The ftate of being ilruck together; a

ThtD

COL

COL

^

Then f(om the dalhes fcct«ern popei and kings,

By the ignorance of the merchants, or diAonefty
of weavers, or the collufion of both, the ware wa
bad, and the pr.ce excelfive.
Swift.

Debate^ like fparks from flint's ctltijlsti, fprir.gj.

Dcnbam.
from the

The devil rometiines borrowed fite
of well-meant
Cliii iiins in a flame.

zcaj,

fet

To COXLOCATE. -v. a. [.e//9«, Latin.]

To place

to ftacion.
;
If you dcfirc to f«i>erinducc any virtue upon a
^ifrfon, take the creature in which that virtue is

Carrying on a fra^id by fecret concert.

1.

To CoLLY. i;. <T. To grime with coal ; to
fmut with coal.
Biief as the lightning in the cdHed night.
That, in a fpcen, unfolds borh heav'n and earth

Bacm

Collocu'tion, h. f. [collocutio, Latin.]
Conference ; converfation.
To CoLLo'cuE. I', n. [probably from col/o^Kor, Latin.] To wheedle; to flatter
to plcale with kind words. A low word.
Co'llop. n. f. [It is derived by Minjhc'w
from coal and op, a rafher broiled upon
the coals ; a carbonade.]
1
A fjnall (lice of meat.

Khig's Cookery,

that does not apply for a co/Uf of h*m.

L'Efirangc.

3- In burlefque language, a child.

Come, Sir page.

Look on me with yourwelkin eye, fwect villain,
Moft dear'ft, my it!:ef. Shjh/f eyre's Homier' i Talc.

Thou art a coU')p of my flefli.

And for thy fake I have (hed many a tear.
Sbaiefpeare* i Henry VI.

Co L L o'cju A L a^'. [ from (o//oy»y.]WhatI

.

ever relates to common converfation.

Co'LLOqjjy.
Conference ;

n. /.

[coJ/ojuium, Latin.]

converfation ;

alternate

difcourfe ; talk.

My earthly, by hiii heav'nly over-power'd.
Pazaled, and fjient.funk do.vn. Mtlnn's Par. LoJ!.
bt retirement make frequent collijuies, or fliort
difcourfing«,betwenG<d and thyown Uml.'Tay/cr.

Co'Lt.ow. >$./. [More properly ce/fy, from
.

Collovi is the word

by whicli they denote black
grimeof burnt coals, or wood, fycidicard on lajph.

Collu'ctancy'.

[iclluilor,

Lat.]
; oppofition of na-

ture.

Collucta'tion. ». /. [colluaalh, Lat.]
Con tell ftruggle ; contrariety oppofi;

;

tion ; fpite.
Tiie tiierma;, r.atural baths, or hot fprings, do
not ewe their heat to any cdlueialion or effervefcenceaf the minerals in tliem.
ffocdtvard't Natural Hi/lory.

CcLl.i;'«iON. n./. [collujio. Latin.]
CUlafiim it, in our common law, a deceitful
agreement or compad between two or more, far
the one part to bring an aftion agaiiift the other to

fome

evil pjiriwfe ; as to ddrc

^V't"

atbird of his

CtweU.
i

and

And here the marble (lataes breathe in rows,
Addihtu
2.

Any feries or range of pillars.
For you my colonnades extend their wings. Pope*

COXONY. n.f [colonia, Latin.]
1.

A body of people drawn from tlie mother-country to inhabit fome diftant
To thefe new inhabitants iind nlon'us he gavAthe
I^me law under which they were born and bred.

about

Sferftr in Ireland.

Rooting out thefe two rebellious fepts, he placed
En^jlidi ci'jnics in their rooms. Daviei on Irclar.d,
Ofiris, or the Bacchus of. the ancients, isi reported to h.nve civilized the Indi.in>, planting.co/^ni'rt, and building cities.
A'kutirot en Coins.

2.

The country planted ; a plantation;

which it is fometimes tied, as likewife
The riling city, which from far you fee.
to the gall-bladder, which tinges it yelIs Carthage, and a Tyriao cohry.
Dry Jen's Hrgil,
low in that place then it runs under the Co' L p H o N y n.f. [ from Colophon, a city
whence it came.] Rofin.
bottom of the ftomach to the fpleen in
Of Venetian turpentine, (lowly evaporating
the left fide, to which it is alfo knit
about a fourth or fifth part, the remaining fubfrom thence it turns down to the left
(tance fufjirred to cool, would afl'ord m; acolicrcnt
kidney ; and thence pafling, in form of
body, or a fine eokphmy.
Boy/e,
an S, it terminates at the upper p.art of
Turpentines and oils leave a colophony, upon a
feparation of their thinner oil.
the 03 facrum in the reftum.
l^incy.
.

Now, by your cruelty hjid bo'ind,
drain my guts, my fo/c« wound.
Siojfi.
The contents of the co/cn arc of a four, fend,
1

acid fmell in rabbits.

Flyer on the Humoun.

To COLLUDE, -v. n. [coltudo, Lat.] To
CO'LONEL. n. f. [of uncertain etymoconfpire in a
fraud ; to aft in concert
to play into the hand of each other.

or a fe-

infulated within fide.
Builder's Di3.
Here circling colonn/tdct the ground incIofe«

:

n. f.

A tendency to contell

;

place.

eight or nine hands
breadth long. It begins where the ilium
ends, in the cavity of the os ilium on
the right fide ; from thence afcending
by the kidney on the fame fide, n pafles
under the concave fide of the liver, to

As with an ohjeft that excels the fenfe,

A periftyle of a circular figure

ries of columns difpofed in a circle,

The greateft and wideft of all the inteftines,

In that c^lciiial eot'^^uy fublime.

coal. ]

column.]

1

him.
2.

may be heic-

i^ocal Forejf.
A point [:] ufed to mark a paufe greater Colonna'de. «. [fromHoivel's
M/<wn<», Ital. a
/
than that

of a comma, and lefs than that
of a period. Its ufe is not very exaftly
fixed; nor is it very neceflary, being
confounded by moft with the femicolon.
It was ufed, before punftuation was refined, to mark almoft any fenfe lefs than
a period.
To apply it properly, we
ihould place it, perhaps, only where the
fenfe is continued without dependence
of grammar or conftruftion ; as, / lo've
him, I defpife htm : I ha've long ceafed to
trufi, but fhall never forbear to fuccour

not an enemy

as that which

by the farther occupation and cohnixing of
thofe countries : and yet it cannot be affirmed, if
one I'peak ingenuoufiy, that it was the propagation
of the Chriftian faith that was the adamant of that
difcovcry, entry, and plantntion ; but gold and
filvcr, and temporal profit and glory ; fo that what
was firll in God's providence, was but fccond in
man's appetite and intention. Bacon's H^/y H^ar,
Druina hath advantage by acqueft of illands,
which (he colonixeth and fortilieth daily.
aftcr,

Earth, n.f. Is a deep brown,
very light baftard ochre, which is no
pure native foflil ; but contains more
vegetable than mineral matter, and
owes its origin to the remains of wood
long buried in the earth. Hill on Foffils.

A piece of any animal.
:

as well that that is,

Co'locn

1.

To

the relt of the habitable world, before this ; f jr fo
a man may truly term it, if he (hall put to account

Co LON. n.f. [y.uXot, a member.'\

What fignifies Scotch rc/A/s ta a feall ?
The lion is upon his death-bed

;

CO'LMAR. n.f. [Fr.] A fort of pear.

Dryden't FabUt.

Stvifi^

plant vyith inhabitants ; to fettle witk
new planters ; to plant with colonies.
There was never an hand drawn, that did double

for the eyes.

A coak perhaps has mighty things profefs'd

2.

r.eipnf was coming laft upon him.

To IZo'tosize. -v. a. [from ro/«»>i.]

CQlLrRWM.n.f. [Latin.] Anointment

Sweetbread and colhfs w.re with fkewers pritk'd

Then fcnt up but two dUhes nicely drcftj

oflice or charafter of colonel.
While he continued a fubal^'m, he complained
againft the pride of colonels towards ihrir officers,
yet, in a few minutes after he had received his
commiflion for a regiment, he confefleJ fhat r«/c-

And, ere a man hath pow'r to fay, behold.
The jaws of darkncfs do devour it up.
ShaMf.

;

About the fides.

Milton.

coal.
Suppofc thou faw her dreflcd in fomc old hlrfutc aitii^, out of fafiiion, coarfe raiment, befmcared with foot, eoUy, perfumed with opoponax.
Burton fin Melancholy.

Colloca'tion. h. /.

In the cdhiaikn of the fpirits in bodies, the cilIlcoW" is equjl or unequal j and the fpirits coiccr-

Captain or tolontl, or knight in atm>,
Whofe chance on thefe dcfcncelels doors may fein'.
If deed of honour did thee ever pleafc.
Guard them, and him within protect from hanhi.

Co'lly. n. /. [from ««/.] The fmut of Co'LotJELSHiP. n.f. [from cclonel.l The

Baan.

[fe//affl/»«, Latin.]
Tl»« aft of placing ; tiirpofitioii.
2. The Hate of being placed.

Spenjir in JrttiUld*

CoLLu'sifELv. aJ'v. [from colltijt've.l In
a manner fraudulently concerted.
CoLLu'soRY. adj. [from fe//aA, Latin.]

moft eminent: of that cieature take the part

vate or diffufcd.

generally founded with only tAV

diftinft fyllables, col'nel.
The chiefeft help muft be the cart of the rc/cm/, that hath the government of all his garrifon.

lently concerted.

even orthod ix
Deaiy ofP'iciy.

wherein th^t virtue is coHteatt.

now

CoLLu'sivE. aJj. [from colluilt.] Fraudu-

altar to conlume the votaries j and, by tlie mutual
tcl.'tfijr.

COL

logy.

W/«wfr imagines it originally co-

lonialis, the leader of a colony.

deduces

it

Miitpeiv

from colonna, a pillar

patrier columen ; exercitus columsn.
is plaulible.]

:

i%,

Each

^

The fruit of a plant of the
fame name, brought from the Levant,
about the bignefs of a large orange, and
often called bitter apple. Both the feed
and pulp are intolerably bitter. It is a
x<j^o'«!,>9t?.]

violent purgative, of confiderable ufe
"pedicine.

The chief commander of a Co'lorate. adj.

reginjent ; a field officer of the highcft
rank, next to the geiieral officers. It is

Fhyer en tie Humours.

C0L0<y;i NTEDA. n.f [eolocynthit, Lat.

loured ; dyed ;
fomc colour.

in

Chambers.
[coloratus, Lat.] Comarked gr ilained with

Had

Had the tuniclej and humours of the eye keen

7.

alarete, many rays from vifiWe objtas would have

Ray-

been ttopt.

Some bodies have a more departable nature than
as is evident in ccloitiihtt ; lor a fmali
quantity of fafiron will tinft more than a great
Buccn,
quantity of brali^

His body to that pleufant country's earth.
And his pure foul un his captain Chrift,
Under whofe colcurs he had fought fo long.

The ftate of being coloured.
curiontici

I

place

Ihall

eohratr.7:,

Bac:,r's!Jar. I{:Jl.

The banks were filled with compapies, pafTing
all

(ahurs,
1).

a.

[colore,

Latin ]

The rays, to fpeak properly, are not coIaut-eH
in them there is nothing elfe than a certain powrr

female.

and difpolition to ftir up a fenfation of this or that

fo the fawn, and fu the calf.

colour.

lon, the pyiamids of Egypt, or alcjji of Rhodes.
2.

There huge col^jfus rofe, with trophies crown'd.
And tun'clc charaClers were gravM around. Pepe,

To palliate ; to excufe ; to drefs in fpecious colours, or fair appearances.

4.

To Colour a Jiranger'' s goods, is when

n.f.

Phillips.

To Co'lou R. 11. n.

Sbakeffeare.

cious ; plauiibie.

It is

Spe-

now little ufed.

The lights of eotwn are more refrangible one
than another in this order; red, orange, yellow,

They have now a cvlourahU pretence to wirhfland innovations, having accepted of other laws

Kniim'i Otliiit.
2. The frelhneli, or appearance of blood
in the face.
Mycheetcsno longer did rheir nXiirr boaft. Dryti.

and rules already.
Sf/rtfer,
They were glad to lay hold on fo eolourabli: a
matter, and to traduce him as aa author of (uipi-

green, blue, indigo, deep violet.

A fudden horror feixM his gidHy head,

Ard a^l the bright creation fades away.
Pcftt.
4. The reprefcntation of any thing fuperiicially examined.

Hooker.

Co' LOUR ABLY. adv.

[from

Haccn.

Streaked;
have the wars f)r

'Co'lubrine. aij. [fo/a^rj'ffB/,. Latin..],
,1.

Relating to a ferpcnt.

2.

Cunning;

,

crafty.

Co'lumbary. n.f.
Bacon s Natural }lifiory.

;

Having the

tricks of a colt ; wanton.

of

The
n.f. [from colour.^
part of' the painter's art that teaches to
lay on his colours with propriety and
beauty.
But as the flighted /ketch, if juCly trac'd.
Is by ill colouring but the more difgrac'd
So by faliie iearnlng it good itab ilef4c'd.
Pofe.

have a

ground perpendicularly to the (hare.

Co'tTisH. rt<^'. [from «//.]

[columbarium, ItSX-V

A.dovecot ; a pigcoa-houfe.
The eaiili <>( cohtttibtirics, or d.iveUoules, is much
'

dcfired in the artifice of faltpetre.

Co'louring.

falfe (liew.

I

Sbakcfpeare.

The (harp iron of a plough that cuts the

not fu Weil and e()uaUy coocoCted.

Their An admitted no (cUur or excufe,
Kin^ Chariot.

Sii^ikjftart.

variety

Sands ;

Co'lter. n.f. [culrop. Sax. culter, Lat.]

The tolured arc coarfer juiced, and therefore

Sb^kcffurtt licmjlV,

my own I'jvc to prefer.

with

faid, lord

flump.

hues.

my tttt-ur, and my ptnfion (hall f em the mnre

Merchants came to Kho.Jcs with a great (hip
kdcd with corn; under the rd/our of the fale whereof, tb«y B&ted all that was done in the city.
KmiUn't Htjf-.ty of the 7iirh.

diverfified

1

—

not hit the very mark whereat it was diiefVrd.

Co'lou R e d. participial adj. [from colo7ir.'\

young horft's.
A IbVe of youthful pleafure ; a difpoiition to the pradllces of youth.

We

ccilottrai'lc]

Swifi.

Miller.

Your colts-tooth is not call yet ?—•No, my lord ; nor fliall n»t, while

Spccioufly ; plaufibly.
The procels, how fic er co/wrai^ awarded, hath

palliation ; excufe ; fu-

Under \.\\K£dour of c^mmcndtng him,

z.

Had I facrificed ecdefiallical government and

fmceriiy of our parents fo eokuralle expectations.
Br'/:vns yulgnr Errouri.

Their wildom is only of this world, to put falfe
cotytiri upon things, to call good evil, and evil good,
againit the conviction of their own confciences.

Appearance ; pretence ;

fixed in a bed.

CoLTS-TOOT H. ?t,f. [from coll and tooth.l
1. An impcrfeft or fupetfluous tooth in-

revenues to their covetoufnefs and ambition, they
would have found no cohurahle nccefTity of an
army.
King Charles.
We hope the mercy of God will confider us unt)
fome mineration of our offences ; yet had not the

VrjJen.

When each bold figure jud begins to live.
The Ireach'rous aisun the fair art betray,

I have acccfs

ciouft innovation.

;

and foot.] It hath a radiated flower,
whole diik confills of many florets, but
the crown compofed of many half florets-:
the embryos are inclitded in a multifid
flowercup, which turns to downy feeds

To blu(h. A low word,

only ufed in converfatioii.
Co'lour ABLE. adj. [from colour.'\

Da'viti.

6.

As foon as they vv-ere out of fight by themfelVes*
they Hiook off their bridles, and began to colt anew
more licentioufly than before.

Sfcnfer's State of Ireland.
freeman allows a foreigner to enter
goods at the Cuftom Houfe in his name ; To Colt. 'v.a. To befool.
What a plague mean ye, to colt me thus ?
fo that the foreigner pays but fingle
SLakrJpean's Henry IV.
duty, when he ought to pay double.
CoLTS-FOOT.
\tufftlago
from colt

For though our eyes can nought but cbkun fee.
Yet ctJcuri give chcm not their pow'r of fight.

reafonable.

rule ; to riot ; to frolick.

a

to be

ed rays of light, tcftcfted on our eyes in a different
manner, veording to the different fize, or Ihape,
or fituation of the particles of which furfaces are
compofed.
tVadt.
Her hair fhall be of what cijair it pleafe Cod.

I

Shakefp. Merchant of f^inice.

To Colt. t. ». [from the noun.] To friflc^
to be licentious ; to run at large without

AiMjm's Frtikildir.

the legiflature.

dilFerent fenfations, excited in us by the refract-

perficial cover.
It is no matter if I do halt;

Ay, tiiat 's a colt, indeed ; for hf doth nothing
but talk of his horfe.

We have fcarce heard of an infurreflion that

to be a red, or blue, or
green tincture of the furface ; but a philofnphical

;

A young fooliih fellow.

2,

was not cukurci with grievances of the highelt
kind, or countenanced by one or more bAnchcs of

when we perceive them

Concealment

bones and lilclefs blocks.
Taylor's HJy Living,Xo fports, but what belong to .var, they know jTo break the Itubborn colt, to ben»I the bow.
Vryden'i JEticift,

Drydm'i Dedkat. jSneiil.
3. To make plauiibie.

It is a vulgar idea of the cchurt of folid bodies,

5.

Bacon's Nat. Hiflory,
Like colts or unmanaged horfes, we Itart at dead-

X^'nclan's Oflicis.

He cchurs the falfehood ofi^neas by an exprefs
command from Jupiter to forfake the queen.

The appearance of bodies to the eye
only ; hue ; dye.

Atd his eirs trickled, and his aUur fled,
3. The tint of the painter.

The c'Jt hath about four years of growth, and

I told him, that I would not favour or (oUur in
any fort his former folly.
Raleigh's Ejjiiyj*

CO'LOUR. »./. [color, Latin.]

:

1

male offspring of a horfe, as foal for the

Not to mention the walls and prilace of Baby-

CoLOsss.' At!. aJJ. [coloJ/etitiLat.] Inform
of a colofliis ; of the height and bignefs
of fuch a Aatue ; giantlike.

Bentley,

To mark with fome hue, or dye.

1.

ToB/Vir.

whitenefs.

COLT. »./ [coir, Saxon.]'
A young horfe ufed commonly for the

Addljcn.

To Co'lour.

nitude.

calotirt

Kttollcs,

9. Colours is ufed fingularly by Adiiifon.
An author compares a lagged coin to a tiittered

COLO'SSE. "in./. Icohjfus, L^un.] A
COLO'SSUS. j ftatue ot enormous mag-

various

along the river under their cohurs, with tium-

pets founding.

In tliis compofition of white, the feveral rays
do not fulfer any change in their coUr}Ji*k qualities
by a£ling upon one another j but are only mixed,
and by a mixture of tjieir colours produce white.
N^tvt'.n'i Oftkti.

we confider the

or otherways formed into plates, exhibit various
colours, according to their various thinnefs ; al*
though, at a greater thiclcnefs, they appear very
Ncvjtr.ns Opticks*
clear and cohurlej<.
Pellucid colourlifs glafs or water, by being beateninto a po\^'der or froth, do acquire a very intenfe

And n.<t retire. Shaitfp, Mtrry H^ives offVlmlfor.

dyes, tints, colours, or hues.

idea, when

Tranfparcnt fubrtancc^, as glafs, water, and air,

when made very tiiin by being blown into bubbles,

A^ainft all checks, rebukes, and manners,
I mutt advance the colours of my love.

Colori'fick. aefj. [colorificus, Latin.]
That which has the power of producing

1.

out colour ; not dillinguifhed by any
hue ; tranfparent.

Staiejfcarv's Rhtanl II.

though fomcwhat better; for beauty in flowers is
their prehcminence.

lours to his defigns.

In the plural, a ftandard ; an enfign of
Titian, Paul^Veronefe, Van Dyck, and the reft
war : they fay the ctlours of the foot, and
of the good colcurijls, have cume neaiclt to nature.
Dryden's Dufrrftioy,
Jiandard of the horfe.
Co'lourless. fl<^". [from colour.'^ WithHe at Venice gave

8.

others,

Amongft

Co'lourist. rt./. [from coloi/r.'] A paltt*
tcr who excels in giving the proper co*

KHiJ ; fpecles ; charader.
Boys and women are, for the mort part, cattle of
akaktjpeari i As you like /'.
this C'Jcur,

Colo ra't ION. n.f. {cokro, Latin.]
1. The art or pra(3*':e of colouring.

2.

COL

COL

COL

Broken s l^ulgar Errours.

Co'lumbine. H.y; [colitm/>ina, Litm ] Aplant with leaves like thc-meadOw rue.
Miller.
Co'.urrhines are of feveral forts and colour'..

They

Powei; ill the cod of May, when few other flowers
fhcv\',

Iftrlimer.

Co'LvMBINC^.

Co't. UMUIKE. »f.y; [celumlinut, hxt.'\

A

He with hit fword unflieath'd, on pain of life,
Commaadt both combatants to ceaie their ftrife.

The top or creft of a cock, fo called
from its peftinated indentures.

2.

kind of violet colour, or chango^ble
dove colour.
^Diii.

Dryden.

Cocks have great ccmts and fpurs, hens little or

Like defpairing combatants they

Bacon.

none.

CO'LUMN. »./. [columiia, Latin.]
A round pillar.

Any body of certain dimenfions prciTing

Wlih dent5 embattled like a ciftle-wall. DryJin.
The cavities in which the bees lodge
their honey.
Perhaps from the fame
word which makes the termination of
towns, and fignifies holltnu or dee^.

vertically upon its bale.
The whole weight of any cilumn of the atmo.
fphere, and likewife the fpecifick gravity of its

This in affairs of Hate,
Employ'd at home, abiJes within the gate.
To fortify the ccxh, to build the wall,

bafi;, are certainly known by many experiracnis.

To prop the ruins, Icll the fabrick fail.

Some of the

old

Creek cclumtn, and altarti

were brought from the ruins of Apollo':> temple at
Dilot*
Piacbam,
Round broken rc/uwffj clafping ivy twin'd. ¥^'

3.

IVcsdviard tn Fc/fh.

Colu'res. »,_/; [«/«r»', Latin ; xoXotjo*.]
Two great circles fuppofed to pafs through the
poles of the world : one through the enuinoftial
points, Aries and Libra; the other through the
folftitiil points. Cancer and Capricorn.

They are

called the equinoctial and folftjtial colurci, and diThe
vide the ecliptick into four equal parts.

points where (bey interfcdl the ecliptick are called
Harris.
the cardinal points.
Tlirice the equinoAial line
of
night
the
car
four
times
crcfs'd
He circled ;
pole to pole, traverfing each cefure* Afi/foft*

Fmm
CO'MA. n./. [xuiJta.] A morbid difpo-

A

She IoH a nobler brother} with him the finesr
of her fortune, her marriage dowry with bnih,
:

her combinate hulband, this well-feeming Angelo.
Sbakcfftare^s Meafure ftr Mcajure*

CoMBiN a'tion. n.f. [from ccmbint.]
atiori ;

This canning cardinal

I.

To fight

:

toma.'] Lethargick ; fleepy to a difeafe.
Our beft caltor is from Ruflia ; the great and

principal ufe wheieof, is in hyfttricil and comatojc

Gre^\

cafes,

Shakeffeare.

Two planets rulhing from afpe^ malign
Milton.

«h >fe teeh

Milttir.

in'lr.imcat in

falhion of a comh,
being in number fixteen, were about

a:',

an inch and a half br ,ad, and the intervals of the
ttetii about two iacbss wide<

NnvHu.

.

_

Combination is ufed, in mathema-

5.

To Co'mbat. v. a.

Tooppofe ; to fight.
Their opprellbrs have changed the fcene, and
combated the opinions in their true Hiape.

ticks, to denote the variation or altera-

tion of any number of quantities, letters,

founds, or the like, in all the different
manners pofiible. Thus the number of
poflible changes or combinations of the
twenty - four letters of the alphabet,
taken firft two by two, then three by
three, isfc. amount to 1,391,724,288,

Decay of Piety.
Love yields at lail, thus combated by pride,

And fhe fubmitt to be the Roman's bride.
Grayiniille.

Co'mbat. »./. [from the verb.] Conteft

;

battle J duel ; Arife ; oppofitiun : gene-

ufed for battle.
Thofc regions were full both of cruel monfters

mad

They never fuffer any ideas to be joined in their
underltandings, in any other or ftronger ambiratim
than what their own nature and corrcfpondcnoe
give them.
Locke.

alkali combat.

rally

Sleeking herfoft allur'ng locks.

Thefe natures, from the moment of their firft
eombmation, have been and are for ever infeparable.
Hooker,
Refolution of compound bodies by fire, does not
fo much enrich mankind as it divides the bodies
as upon the fcore of its making new compounds
Boyle,
by new ccmbiniitions,
Ingratitude is always in eomhinatisit with pride
and hard-heartednef<.
South,

To a£l in oppofition, as the acid and 4. Copulation of ideas in the mind.

ginning of names, feera to be derived
from the Britifh kum, which fignifies a
GiLfon't Camden.
low fituation.
Comb, iw Cornijh, fignifies a -vaZ/fy, and
had the fame meaning anciently in the
French tongue.
COMB. »./ [camb. Saxon; *<?«, Dut.]
I. An inlbument to feparate and adjuil

I

mixture; conjunftion.

[combattre, Fr.]

COMB in the end, and Comp in the be-

the hair.
By fair L'gea't goldeh eomi.
Wherewith flie fits on diamond rocks.

King Charles,

Union of bodies, or qualities ; com-

5.

generally in aduel, or hand

Of fiercell oppofuion in mid Iky,

Comato'se. aJj. [from

fenfe;

power, under the difguifes cif is^i\y comblnatiom.

to hand.
Pardon me, I will not combat in my Ihirt.
a.

ill

but was formerly indifferent.
They aim to fubdue all to their own will and

Mortimer's Hujhandry.

Should combat, and their jarring fpberes confound.

Sbakejpeari^i As you like it.

2. It is now generally ufed in an

This wood is of ufe for the turner, engraver,

To CO'MBAT. -V. n.

A combination is of

The articles o' th' comhinaticn drew,
As himfelf pleasM.
Shaitffeare's Henry VIII.

To lay any thing confiding of filaments
fmooth, by drawing through narrow interftices ; as, to comh luool.
CoMB-BRUSH. n./. [comi and irufi."] A
brulh to clean combs.
CoMB-MAKER. >t. f. \comb and maker.'\
One whofe trade is to make combs.
carver, and comb-maker.

league.

private perlons ; a confederacy, of Aates
or fovereigns.

And carriage of the articles delign'd.

My ccmaus and brother^ in eiile.

Union for fome certain purpofe ; afibci-

1

fignify treaty ; article ; from etn, and
mart, or market.
By the fame eunart,

nion.

Co'.viBER. n. /. [itom comb.'] He whofv
trade it is to difentangle wool, and lajr
it fmooth for the fpinner.
trothed ; promifed ; fettled by compaft.
word of Shakefftare.

Siuift.

Co'mart. n./. This word, which I have

Shaiefpeart's Hamltt,
His fell to Hamlet.
Co'mate. It./, [coa and mate.\ Compa-

With /ar before the thing defended.

Co'mbinate. <i<^'. [hom combitic] Be-

2.

fition to fleep ; a lethargy.

only met with in one place, feems to

Whea any of thofe combatants ftrips his tcrmi
of ambiguity, I (hall think him a champion fn
Lt^cke*
knowledge.
i

[In the military art.] The long file or Ti Comb. 1/. a. [from the noun.]
row of troops, or of baggage, of an army 1. To divide, and clean, and adjuft the
in its inarch. An army marches in one,
hair with a comb.
two, three, or more columns, according
Hei care (hall be
To comb your noddle with a three-Iegg'd ftool.
as the ground will allow.
Sbateffcare.
A column is half a
4. [With printers.]
Divers with us, that are grown grey, and yet
page, when divided into two equal parts
would appear young, find means to make their hair
by a line palling through the middle,
black, by camhing it, as they fay, with a leaden
Bacon.
comb, or the like.
from the top to the bottom ; and, by
She with ribbons tied
feveral parallel lines, pages are often
His tender neck, and comb'd his filken hide.
divided into three or more columns.
Drydn's JE,r.cid.
Colu'mnar.
\'"0' [frojn column.'\
There was a fort of engine, from which were
Column a'ri AN. 5 Formed in columns. extended twenty long poles, wherewith the i^anmountain combs his head.

Dryden.

A champion.

Men become combatant for thofe opin-ons. Locke,

3.

White co^miur fpar out of a flone-pit.

too much brightnefs.

2.

3.

DryJa's yir^il.

Beiitliy.

againft

ftrive

you, as if they had beheld unveiled the magical
ihicld of ArioftO) which dozslcd the behoUers with

High was his comi, and coral red withal,

1

2.

COM

COM

COM

between two, but fometimes

it

is

887,252,999,425,128,493,402,200.
Chambers,
To COMBl'NE. V. a, [combiner, Fr. binot

and monftrous men j all which, by private combats,
they delivered the countries of.
Sidney.
The noble combat that, 'twixt joy and furrow,
She had one eye declined
was fought in Paulina
for the lofs of her hulband, another elevated that

jungere, Lat.]
To join together.

1.

Let us not then fulpcfl our happy ftaie,

!

the oracle was fulfilled.

As not fecure to finale or cjmbin d.
MJtun's Paradife Lifi,

Sbakefpeare,

The ccmbat now by courage roufl be tried. Drjd.

2.

God, the be(l mikcr of all marriages,
Combine your hearts in one, your realms in one.

Co'mbatant. n. f, [cemiattant. Ft.]
I. He that fights with another ; duelliA

Stakijpcare,

Fricndfhip is the cement which really combines
Gwcm'nent of the Tongue.
mankind.

antagonid in arms.
So frown'd the mighiv combatant, that hell

Grew darker at their frown. Miltin's Par. LJi.
Who, fingle combatant,
DuelM their armies rankM in proud array,
Himfelf an army.

To link in union.

3.

To agree

;

to accord ; to fettle by com-

paa.

My heart's dear love is fet on his fair daughter;

Afiltcn't Jlgonj/les.
.

As mine oa hens, fo hers ii fet oo mine.

And

COM

COM

COM

And »n cemh'm'H, file what thoa mull cimhhe

Shak. Juliui CaJ.
Coming to look on yuu, thinking you dead,
I ff akc unto the crown as having fenfc.

One faid to Ariftippus, 'tis a flrange thing v»?iy
men Ihould rather give to the poor than to phiU>fophers.
He anfweied, becaufe they think themfeives may fooner come to be poor than to be phi-

Caefar will i-ome forth to-day.

Shakijf. Rmeo ettd Juliet.
By holy mirriage.
4. To join words or ideas together : oppofed to analyji.
yi CombTne. ". jf.
1. To coalefce ; to unite each with other.
Ufed both of things and perfons.

Stake/fearc't Hcr.ry IV.

The colour of the king doth come and go.

The Chriftians having flood almoft all the day in
order of battle, in the fight of the enemy, vainly
expe^ing when he (hould came forth to give them

That they canb'mr not there ?

'Tis true that fince the fenate's fuccour came.
DryJen's Tyrannick Love.

Shalrff^CtrioUuiui.

Ah
2.

Co'mbless. a/^'. [froBi «m^.] Wanting a

3.

!

By the pticking of my thumbs.
Something wicked this way comes. Sbak. Macbeth.

To move ir^ any manner towards another ; implying the idea of being received by another, or of tending towards another. The word always refpefts the place to which the motion
tends, not that place which it leaves ;
yet this mr.aning is fometimes almoft
evanefcent and imperceptible.

What, is your creft a coxcomb >

my hen. Shak.

COMBU'ST. adj. [from comhuro, combuftum, Lat.]

When a planet ij not above eight degrees and a
half iliftant from the fun, either before or after

him, it is faid to be ctmhuji, or in fombujiioii.

The galloping of horfe

Comb u's t ijb e adj. [couburo, cambujium,

:

Srtnvn'i yuigar Erreurt.
Sin is to the foul like fire to cor):huJiAle matter

As foon as the commandment came abroad, the
children of Ifrael brought in abundance the liril

as foon at they meet

tombujiible matter, flame out.

It is impoflible to eoire near

with

Decay of Piety.

nent.

Kor, till the fuel perilh, can decay.
DrjJen.

Covibu'stibleneSs. «.yr {from combufAptnefs to take fire.
[French.]
Conflagration; burning; conAunption

libli.]

CoMBu'sTioN. »./.
I.

by fire.
The future ccmbafikn of the earth is to be ulher.ed in

and accompanied with violent impredions

upon nature.

Tumult ; hurry ;

3.

4.

buflle ;
5.

Burly burly.
enforce them, thraugh very fainlncfs, after the cxpericncc o!" fo endlels mileiies.
Hooker.
Prophefying, with accents terrible,
Of dire eombujli^n, and confus'd events,
Vev-lvtch'd to th' woeful time. Sbaieff. Macb.
Thofe cruel wars between the heufes of York
«nd Lincaflcr, brought all England into an horrible
£9mbnjlti.n.
Raleigh.
How much more of pow'r.

Shaki/feare't Henry 1 V.

upon Spain, yet he W3s taken order with before it
came to that.
Ba<ott.
Seditious tumults, and feditiou' fames, differ no
more but as brother and lifter; if ir come 10 that,
that the bell actions of a Hate arc taken in an ill
fenfe ami traduced.
Bjcar,.
Hi^ f'ldicrv had Ikirmilhes with the Numidiaos,
fo that once the Ikirniilh was like to ci/rne to a juii

Dri-adful eombujiion warring, and diAtirb,

Though not dellroy, their happy native feat! Afi/f,
£ut fay, from whence this new (W)^i^.'?n fpri ngs ^

battle.

Drytien,

flelh wiftiednhcy had had left.

and at ihe fame time with an exact rejlrldlfon'l Guardian.

except we conceive nothing a£lion tiU the pla)<rs
cime to blows.
DryJen,
The fo^ce whcrrby bodies coher; is very mucli
greater when they i^n., to imnirdiatr <onia£l, than

To COME. v.n. pret. came, particip. come.
[coman, Saxon ; komtn, Dut. komtruii,
(jerman.]

To remove from a diHant to a nearer
place ; to arrive : oppofed to go.
And troubled blood throjgh his pale Uccwat fern

To mmt and go, with tidings from the he.ut.
I airy Sijiein :

Vol. 1.

Kr.olUi.

Wlirn it cttmc to that once, they that had molt
L' f-flrarigt.
£vcry new fprurg p iflion i^ a pait of the aflion,

The comet moves in an inconceivable fury, and

I.

To advance from one ftage or condi-

Though he would after have turned hi% teeth

Army sgainft army, numbcrlcf* to raife

gular. ty.

It is reported, that if you lay good Oore of kernels

when they are at ever fo I'njall « finite dlRance.
CLij nr'l fitli'fvf.ticjl Prir,, fits.

6.

To be brought to fome condition either
for better or worfr,

implying Ibme de-

gree of cafualty : with te.

of grapes about the root of a vine,

it

will

make the vine come earlier, and profper batter.
Baccn^s Natural Hijiory.

Then butter does rcfufe to ccme^
And love proves crofs and humourfome. Huilihrau
'

In the coming or fprouting of malt, as it muft
not come too little, fo it mull not come too ihuch.
M':rtimrr»

1 1 .

To become prefeiit, and no longer

future.
A time will come, when my maturer mulii
In Ca-far's wars a nobler theme /hall chul'e.
Dryciev^s Virgil,

It,

to iffue.

tion to another.
Truft me, 1 am exceeding weary.
^Is it eome to that ? I had thought wearinefs
durS not kave attacked one of fo high blood.

Mutual ccmbbJUtttSt bloodflieds, and waftes may

etmibvfiiim,

;

To change from one (late into another

defired ; as the butter comes, when the
parts begin to feparate in the churn.

Locke.

Behold, my fon, which came forth of my bowels,
feeketh my life.
2 Sam. xvi. ii.

Barrel.

hubbub ;

To proceed

Locke*

(lighted.

to.

Bumet'i Theory.
your Lnrdlhip, at

No perception of basics, at a diftance, may be
accounted for by the motion of particles comirg
from them, and Oriking on our organs.
Locke.
They take the colour of what is laid before
them, and as foon lofc and rcil^n it to the next
that happens to nwire in their Way.
Locke.
God has made the intellcflual world harmoniwithout
beautiful
us;
ous and
bat it will never
come into ou; heads all at once.
Loekr,

By nature form'd on tilings cantuJiibU to prey.

dii"--

pofition.
They would quickly come to have a natu;.al abhorrcnce for that which they found made them

any time, without receiving fome favour. Congreve.
Nunc may come in view, but fuch as are perti-

The Same (hall dill remain j

(li. rf:

Duppas Rules for Dc^/^iir.

To arrive at fome aft or habit, or

9.

Knowledge it a thing of their own invention, or
which they etane to by fair reafoning.

They are but ftreweJ over with a little peniten-

Sbakc/jteare's King J'rar,

How came the publican jullified, but by a

'

SAih.

It aSiisil;itee before it dellroys it.

will,

If you come fiick of former ferviccs,

2 Ctror.iclei,

fruits.

;

You (hal! do well.

Sb*ikeipeare' s Merchant tf Venice.

made out uf the wood of oxycedar,

and

Skakefl'care's Henry TV.

When he returns from hunting,
fpcak with him
fay I am (ick.

I will not

we wiU come in to dinner.

are white, becaufe their vapours are rather fulphureous than of any other comtuJIiUe fubftance.

tial alhcs ;

To rain upon remembrance with n-ine eyes.

Bid them cover the table, ferse in the meat, and

£re ; fufceptible of firi.
Charcoals,

So came I a widow

And never (hall have length of life enough

Shaiefpeare* I Macbeth.

Having the quality of catching

South*

To become.

and horrible prayer ?

who was 't came by ?

.

Lat.]

upon.
8.

1 did hear

Harris.

Ben Jonjcn's Catatwe.

He wonder'd how flic came to know
What he had done, and meant to do. Hudihrajm
The tcftimony of confcience, thus informoil,
comes to be fo authentick, and fo much to be relied

there the mifchief coma.
Ro7ve^s Rcyal Convert.

To draw near; to advance towards.

comb or cre&.
will be

A fcrpent, ere he comes to be a dragon.
Does eat a bat.

This Chrillian woman 1

For thefe domeflick and ^rticviUr broiU
Sbaitff. King Lear.
Are not the queftion here.
You with your foes combiee^
And feem your own deliiu^ion to deliga.
DrydfHi jJurmgxeie.
\

Stvift.

To attain any condition or charafter.

7.

They grow mo.e bold.

CimUm together 'gjinll the enemy ;

—A ccmkltft cock, fo Kate

and come to ioine mifchance.

Kmlki't Hiflory of the Turks.

To unite in friendftilp or defi^n.
„

Locke.

You were told your mailer had gone to a tavern,*

battle, returned at night unto their camp.

nie

In pace what each of them by th' other lofes.
2.

His Tons come to honour, and hejuioweth it not*
Job.
He being come to the eftace, keeps abufy family.

Shakefpeare^ i Kingyahn.

iionour and policy, like xmfever'd iVienis
r th' war, do grow together : grant that, and teli

Bacon's jipcftbibcgmt'

lofophers.

Between his purpofe and his confcience.

To become prefent, and no longer ab-

fent.

That's my joy

Not to have feen before ; for nature now
Contes all at once, confounding

my delight.

Dryd<n*s Kirg Arthur*
Mean while th? gods thi- dome of Vulcan throng,
Apollo comes, and Neptune caiHe along.
Poult's OJyfcy.
Come then, my friend, my genius, ccr/:i alon;,
Thou mafter of the poet jiid the fong
Poj>e,
!

13.

To happen

14.

—How
To befal, as an event.

to fall out.
'I lie duke of Cornwall, and Regan his duchefs,
will be here with him tliis night.—.
comes that f
Shakrffieare's King Lear*
;

Let mc alone that i may (peak, and let eofne on
me whit wilt.
Jab, xiii. I J.

To follow as a confequence.
Thole that arc kiti to the king, never prick
their finger but they fay, there is (ome ot the

15.

How tomei that > fays he, that
king'! blood Ipilt.
cake^ upon him not to conceive: the anfwerir, 1
am the king's poor coufin, S'r.
ibakijfearc't Henry

16.

W,

To ceafe very lately from fome aft or

ftatt; ;

to have juft doije or luffereil apy

thing.
David faid unto Vriah, camrjl thi^iv not frohi thy
journey >
t Sam. xi- ">•

V y

1;.

r»

.

^a Come aiout. To come to pafs ; to
out } to come into being. Probably
from the French 'vtiiir a teut.
AnJ let ir.e fpeak to tli' yet unknowing vroria,

17.

fell

.

How thcfc ih'ngs (amt eheuu

ShikifMKre-

Thjt chi':ub'im> whiih now appears as a God to
a human foul, knows veiy well that

tlic

petioJ

human foul

will nrr.e aioul in ctcrnitv, when the

(hail be as peifc£l as he bimfclf now is.

H

men.

Silken garments did not come in till late, and the
ufe of them in men was often reftrained by law.
Arhuibnot on Coin:.

Sivi/t.

To change; to come

roand. .
The wind ctmi eUul, and fettled in the Weft
Bauti't Ni%» yitalaniis.
fot many days.

On better thoughts, and my urg'd teafcns,
The) »rc cent ab.at, and won to the true fide.
BaiJiTiJoK.

To Come again. To return.
There came Water thereout; and when he had
drunk, his fpirit came cgmn, and he revived.

19.

JudgfSjW: 19.

20. Te Come ajier.

To follow.

If any man WuiciMttifi.r me, let him deny liinifdf, and take up his crds and follow me.

Mitlhcv!, xvi. 24.

To become modifti; to

be brought into ufe.
Then <-«»ie rich cloaths and graceful aflion in,
Then inftruments were taught more moving notes.

conclude, however it ttnti abcui, tliat things

To CoMS aisut.

To Comb in.

26.

affairj have been rtited in the liands of new

To arrive at a port, or

{)Iace of rendezvous.
At what time our fecond fleet, which kept the
narrow feas, was come in and joined to our main
Bacon.
fleet.
There was the Plymouth fquadrdn now ccme in,
,
abroad.
Which in"lhc Strcights laft winter was
Dryden.

Siiift.
»r» not as tliey /hould he.
•* cmtn it .ihut, that, for above fixty years,

18.

TV Com I h.

15.

Adjijm'i SfeSater.
I

COM

COM

COM

To

be an ingredient;
27. To Come in.
to make part of a compofition.
A generous contempt of that in which too many
men place their liappinefs, muft come in to heightAiterbury.
en his chjraflcr.
accrue from an
28. To
in.
eilate, trade, or ctherwife, as gain
I had udicr be raaJ with hiin that, wh=n he
had nothing, thought all the Ihips that came into
the harbour his ; thin with you that, when you
have fo lyuch ccmirg ir., thir.k you have nothing.

Comb

To

Sucklirg,

29. 9^9

Come in. To be gained in abun-

dance.

21. To Come <i/. To reach ; togetv/iihin the reach of; to obtain ; to gain.

Sweetheart, we Oialt be rich ere wc depart.
Hhakcjfeart.

If fairings corre thus plentifully in.

Neidier fword nor fccptre can cunt at cinfcicnce j but it i:^ above and beyond the reach of
Suckling.
both.
Oats will eat and deftroy your marum, if they
Evelyn's Kalendar.
can come at it.
In order to ame at a true knowledge of ourlelvcs.,

30. To Come infer. To be early enough
taken from hunting, where
to obtain
the dogs that are flow get nothing.

we Ihould confidcr how far we may deferve praifc.

mour, honour and virtue, were to ccmiinfcr their

shape and beauty, worth and education, wit and
underftanding, gentle nature and agreeable hu(hare of fuch contrails.

7emJ>k.
If thinking is efl'cntial to matter, ftocks and
ftones will come in for their Ihare of privilege.
Collier on Thought.
One who had in the rear excluded been.
And could not for a tafte 0' th' flcih ame in.

oppolite fex than chaftity, and we always prize
thofe moft who are hardcft to come at. jidd'ij. Speli.

Come by.

To obtain

to gain ;
to acquire. This feems an irregular and
improper ufe.but has very powerful au;

thorifies.
Things moft needful to preferve this life, are
moft prompt and eafy for all living creatures to

tcm tj.

Tate's Juvenal.
Licks the folid earth.
The reft came infer fubfidies, whereof they funk
Sivift.
coniiderable fums.

Hoijter.

Love is like a child.

That longs for every thing that he can come hy.
Sbekeffeart.

Thy cafe
Shall be my precedent ; as thou got'ft Milan,
Sbakeffcarc'i Timfi/I.
ccmt hy Naples.
Are you not alhamcd to inforce a poor widow

J '11

Sbjkejjteare's Henry IV.

To approach

;

to re-

34. To Come of.

Of Priam's royal race my mother earner
Dryden's ^ncid.
Self-love is fo natural an infirmity, that it makes

us partial even to tliofe tliat come of us, as well as
L'EJirange.

ourfelves.

To comply; t« yield;

To proceed, as effefts
35. To Come of.
from their caufes.
f

to hold out no longer.

Hfrnfrr en Ireland.

To proceed, as a de-

fcendant from anceftors.

Sbakcfpeare.

If the arch-rebel Tyrone, ia the time of th<fe
war-:, /hiuld oft":r to come in and fubmit hlmfclf to
h:r roajcfty, would yoo not have him received >

yonfon's Dijcovcrics.
admirable in-

vention, that nothing ancient or modern feems to
Temple.
ame isear it.

To

;

to depart

but yet coining offini dilating more fuddenly.
Bacon's Natural Hifttry,

TiCoMEo^ Toefcapc; to get free.

37.

I

knew the foul enchanter, though dilguis'd;

Enter'd the very lime-twigs of his fpells,
Milton.
And yet came of.
How thou wilt here come off, furmounts my
Milton.
reach.
If, upon fuch a fair and full trial, he can come
Suuth.
he is then clear and innocent.
Thofe that are in any Cgnal danger Implore his

off,

and, if they come off faife, call their deliverance
Addijon.

aid i

a miracle.

To Come off.

38.

To end an affair; to

take good or bad fortune.
Oh, bravely came we off.

When with a volley of our needlefs (hot.
After fuch bloody toil, we bid good-night.
Shakffpcare's Ki:ig Jchf!,

Ever fince Spain and England have had any tiling
to debate one with the other, the Engliih, upon all
encounters, have come off with honour and the
Bacon.

better.

We muft expert fometimes to come off by the
worft, before we obtain the final conqucft. Calamy.
He oft, in fuch attempts as thefe.

Uudihras.

Came s/f with giory and fuccefs.
39. To Come
forbear.

To leave;

off from.

to

To come off from thefe grave difquifltions, t
would clear the point by one inftante more.
Felton on the Clafficks,

40. To Come on. To advance ; to make
progrefs.
Things feera to come on apace to their former
Bacon,

ftate.

There was in the camp both ftrcngth and viftual
fuflicient for the obtaining of the viflory, if they

,

I told

KnoUcs's Hifiory,

en.

Difpers'd and dalh'd the reft upon the rocky fliore.
Drydtti,
So travellers, who wafte the day,
Noting at length the fetting fun.
They mend their pace as night comes on.
Granville,

To advance to combat.
The great ordnance once difcharged, the armies

41. To Come on.

came faft on, and joined battle.

'

Knolles's Hiftory of the Turks,

Rhymer, fome oil, and do the worft you can;
man.
Dryden,

I fear not you, nor yet a better

i?t7i

TiiC fimple ideas, united in the fame fubjedt,
are as perfedlly dillinit as thot'c that cane in by differ-nt fcnfes.
Locke.

*

To Come near.

The whole atchieved with fuch

enter.
you then ? cime in, and give fome

To deviate

from a rule or dircftion.
The figure- of a bell partaketh of the pyramis,

Alterhury.

Whom you cannot equal or eome mar in doing,
you would deftroy or ruin with evil fpeaking*

Siittingf^ri.
ttmt hy the book of Trigiiitlus.
A.midft your train this unfccn judge will wait.
Examine iiuw you came hy all your Itate.
Vryden's Aurengxehe.

To CoMF iu.

Com

races.

A

44.

To CoM^ off.

36.

femble in excellence : a metaphor from

Dmham.
He tells a fad ftory, Iiow haid it was for him to

help.

have a wife looked out for bin by that time he
Locke,
is of age.

The fca came on, the fouth with mighty roar

33.

Bacons Natural Hifiory.

'Wh.it, are

My young miftcr, whatever comes on 't, muft

with whom their leaders had before fccrct intelligence, came in to them'; and was by them, with
great gladnefs and cries of joy, icceptcd as their
Bacon's Henry VH.
general.

good.

letter they came hy.
From our king's majclty.

L'EJIrange,

fulting the rcalon.

would not protra£l the war until winter were ccmt

to come into every thing that is done for the publick

And with that wicked lye

iy TaCoME/fl.

To join with; to

To
into.
To comply with ; to
agree to.
The fame of their virtues will make men ready

The ointment wherewith this is done is made

buried.

This comes »/ judging by the eye, without con-

bring help.
They marched to Wells, where the lord Audley,

32.

To fo rough a courfc to come by her own ?

of divers ingredients, whereof the ftrangeft and
hardcft to comt by is the mnfs of a dead man un-

Come in to.

To

31.

Barom.

itomach.

:

Addijon.
Nothing makes a woman more efieemed by the

22. To

The hlceoogh comes of folnefs »f m»st, e(pecl«
ally in children, which caul'eth an extenfion of th<

Will you pleafe. Sir, be gone
you wlut wrold come cythis.
Shahj'feare'i jyieltr's Tjk.

42.

To

Come on.

To thrive;

to

grow

big ; to grow.
Come on, poor babe ;

Some powerful fpirit inftruft the kites and ravens

To be thy nurfes.

Shakeffearc's JVinter's Tale.

feem by the experiments, both of the
malt and of the rofes, that they will come (a
fafter on in water than in earth ; k\ the nouriftiment is eaCer drawn out of water than out of
It (hould

earth.

43. To Come over.
44. To Come o'ver.

Bacon's NMural Hiftory,

To repeat an aft.
To revolt.

They arc perpetually tcazing their friends to ecme
over to them.

Addifon's Sfedaior.

A man, in changing his fide, not only makes
himfelf hated by thofe he left, but is feldom heartily eftecmcd by thofe Jic ctmei over to.
Addifin's SfeUator.

45-^"

To

45. To Come over.
Perhaps

rife in diftillation.
the phlegmatick Mquor, that is

alfo

^T.
58.

wont to cemt aver in this analjfi!, may, at lead as
fire.

To be made publick.

Before his book (cme nut, I had

it

which gave good grace and comelinefs.
Spenfer on Irelard.

When old age cotnes upon him, it comes alone,
bringing no other evil with it but itfelf.

Stil!ii:gf:it.

have been tedious; and, which i< worfe,

poetry, yet were fprinkled with fome pretty flowers,

Bacon.

thoufand horfe.

undertaken the

Mfwer of fevcral others.
I

Englilh,

,f.y''-

,

The fervfte of God hath not fuch perfeSion of
grace and comelinefs, as when the dignity of the
Hooker.
place doth concur.
They IkiUcd not of the goodly ornaments of

To Coyiz up luith. To overtake.
To Coi.it. upon. To invade ; to attack.

Three hundred horfe, and three thoufand foot
commanded by Sir John Norris, were
charged by Parma, coming upon them with feven

of the
to part of it, be produced by the operation

46. To Come ou..

COM

COM

COM

59.

Vc«« our from the Brft draught, and uncorr^ftcd.

Hardly, (hall you meet with man or woman fo
aged or ill-favoured, but, if you will commend
tliem for eomelincji, nay and for youth too, ihall
South.
take it well.
There is great pulchr!t\ide and cosncUrrfs of pro .
plants.
portion in the leaves, flowers, and fruits of

Souib.

To Come. In futurity; npt prefent

to happen hereafter.
It ferveth to difcover that which is hid, aiwell

47. To Come out. To appear upon trial
to be difcoTered.
It is indeed come cut at laft, that we are to look

as to foretel that which is 10 come.

Bacon's Natural Htjlory,

My

Stdliirgjljel.

on the faints as inferior deities.

48. To Come out luith.

To

give a vent

to ; to let fly.
Thofe great malers of chymical arcana mud
be provoked, before they will erne tut with them.
Boyle.
_.

,

49. To Come to.

To confent or yield.

What is tliis, if my parfon will not c»mt t> f
Swift.

50. To Come to. To amount to.
The emperour impofed fo great a cuftom upon
all com to be tranfported out of Sicily, that the
very cuftoms came to as much as both the price of
the com and the freight together.
KnolUi'i Hijiory of the Turkt.
You faucily pretend to know
Hudihrat.
Kiore than your dividend coma to.
Animals either feed upon vegetables immediately, or, which coma to the fame at laft, upon other

animals which have fed upon them.
IVoMlzvarJ'i Natural HiJIory.
He (lays not this tax immediately, yet his purfe
will find it by a greater want of money than that
I^ocie.

tomet to.

51. To

Come

to bimjelf.

He falls into fweet ecftafy of joy, wherein I
Oull leave him till he coma to himjelf.

52. To

ter comes ; it

Hate to that which is defired ;
vancing towards us.
Come, [participle of the verb.]

Temflt.

Com to pa/s. To be efFefted

;

wr rd s.

quick;

Daniel.

A particle of exhortation;

be

make no delay.

A particle of reconciliation, or

incitement to it.

it Jhall come ;

as, come IVednefday,

their drifts and

Ccme Candlemas, nine years ago /he died.

of the come or fprout.

at

I

with us breedeth

.

J.

yet they may be fuddenly fupplied, and comt up
again.
Bacon.

54. TaCoME up. To come intoufe; as, a
fajhion comei up.
5,5.

To Com e up to.

To amount to.

H'. prepares for a furrender, alTerting that all
thcfc will not comeup to near the quantity requilite.

IVooA'ward'i Natural WJlt^ry.

56. To Come up to.

To rife; to advance.

Whofc ignorant cred'jUty will not
Ctmt up to th' truth. Hhakefpeare's ff^inicr'i Tale.
Conhderations there are, that may make us, if
not etme uf to the character of thole who rejoice
in tfilu'a iorj», yet at lead fatitfy th.; duty of being patient.
ff'tke's Preparathnfr D,aib.

The vedei bylTina:, which fome ladies wore,
muft have been of fuch extraordinary price, that
there i( no (luff in our age comes up 10 it.

;

a ftage-player ;

luted Madam PithiaF, or Prudence. Camd. Remains.

3.

A

writer of comedies.

Scallgcr willcth u: to admire Plautus as a comedian, but Teie«ce as a pure and elei^ant fpeaker.

PeacbamofPi,etry.

CO'MEDY. »./. [comedia, Lat.] A dramatick reprefentation of the lighter
faults of mankind, with an intention to
make vice and folly ridiculous oppofed
:

Your honour's players
Are come to play a pleafant comedy.

A long, cxaft, and ktiua^ xomeJy ;
In every Icene fome mora! lot it tc <ch,
And, if it can, at once b'>'.b pleafc and preach.

Time is like a falhionable hoft.

;

Now leave thofe joys, unfuiting to tliy age.
and tlie miraculous tranllation of her chapei ;

about

which he hath publilhed a defiance to the world,
and olferfc to prove it againfl al! comers. Stillingfett.
.There it is not Itiange, that the mind (houli
give itfelf up to the common opinion, or render itLocke.

iclf to the lirfl comer.

Houfe and heart are open for a friend ; the pal.
fage is eafy, and not only admits, but even invite:.,
tlic

South,

cvmtt

CO'M ET. n. f. [cometa, Lat. a hairy ftar. ]

A heavenly body in the planetary region, appealThe orbits oi coinrfi

they become invjfibie

Pope.

yirhutbnot on Coini.

than^riJir, and lefs light than pretlinefs.
Si.i

are cllipfes, having one of their loci in the centre

when in that part moll rrComets, popularly ciUed blaring ftars, are dilVinguifhed from other flats by a
long train <jt tail of light, always <»pp'>(ite tp the
mot;: from th: fun.

Co'meliness. /». /. [from ««f/('.] Grace;

A cateleli cune/inii's with cvirifly cart.

Dryden.

The renowned cliamplonof our lady of Lorctto,

of the fun ; and being very long and cccentriik,

When the heart iofvll, it ti angry at all worrts
Swift.

Afcham's Schodnajier,

Co'mek. n.f. [from come.] One that comes.

proper orbit like a pljuet.

Taming of the Sbrevf.

beauty ; dignity. It fignifies fomcthing
lefs elegant
lefs forcible than beauty,

that cannot «BK 1^ r« it.

Handfomely ; gracefully.
To ride cov.tly, to play at all weapons, to dance

ing fuddenly, and again diiappearing j and, during
the time of its appearance, ijioving through, its

to tragedy.

Shaktip.

Sbakejpeare's Coridanus,

[from tne adjedive. ]

To a frelh coiner, and refign t!ic (lage.

MclilTirion, pretty honey-bee, whenofarow?dian (he became a wealthy man's wife, would be fa-

mow them down never fo fart,

Good intentions ^re the feeds of good aftions
and every man ought to fow thera, whether they
com/' up or no.
TanpU.

A player or adlor of comic parts.

A player in general
an aftrefs or aftor.

Baccn.

up.
If wars ftould

M'.rtivur's Hujbandry.

To grow out of the Come'dian. ». f. [from comedy.'\

fowing-time,

Crying confufion.

Co'mely. adv.

Grafps in the comer: welcome ever fmiles.
And farewel goes out fighing. Sbak. Troil. andCreJfl
Yourfclf, renowned prince, then flood as fair.
As any ccwcr 1 have tuok'd on yet.
Sbakcjp. Merchant tf Venice,
For my affeflion.
Plants move upwards but, if the fap puts up too
faft, it makcth a (lender ftalk, which will not fupport the weight ; and therefore thefe are all fwift
Bacon.
and hally comers.
It is natural to be kind to the laft £-9mrr.
L'EJi,

a

:

pervious to other liquors ? Boyle's Hift. cfFirmnefs.

Over-wet,

propriety.
Oh, what a world is thi«, when what is^eonlefy
Envenoms him that bears it. Sbak. jts you like it.
This is a happier and more comely time.
Than when thefe fellows ran about the ftreets,

Gay.

Comb. »./. [from the verb.] A fprout

cant term.
That the malt is fufficiently well dried, you may
know both by the taftc, and alfo by the falling off

much dearth, infumuch as the corn never comcth

Dryden.

Ufed of things, decent ; according to

That (lightly (hakes his parting gueft by th' hand ;
But with his arms outftretch'd, as he would fly,

Huoker.
purpofe therein are divers.
How comei >l to fafi, that fome liquors cannot
bodies,
which
are
cafily
motilcn
fome
pierce into or

53. To Co.ME Up.
ground.

Souti,

Thou art a cotncly, young, and valiant knight.

when

Wednefday (hall come.

It cmiib, we grant, many times tofafs, that the

He that is comply, when old and decrepit, furely
was very beautiful when he was young.

comely, be very neceljary for a courtly gentleman.

Come, cime, at all 1 laugh he laughs no doubt \

The only difference is, I dare laugh out.
Pope.
Co M E. A kind of adverbial word for nuhen

to

Graceful; decent; having dignity or
grandeur of mien or look. Comelinefs
feems to be that fpecies of beauty which
excites refpeft rather tlian pleafure.
If the principal part of beauty is in decentmotion, no marvel though perfons in years feem many
times more amiable J for no youth can bf comely
but by pardon, and confldering the youth as to
Bacon.
make up the comelinefs.

2.

Gen. xix. 32.

Come.

Prior.

or from

ad-

dme, let us make our father drink wine.

fall out.

works of men being the fame,

it is

Thy words were heard, and I am come to thy

Come.

1.

paffing from its former

is

}

cpenian. Sax. to pleafe.]

Locke.

_

60. Come is a word of which the ufe is
various and extenfive, but the radical
fignification of tendency hithertuard is
When we fay he
uniformly preferved.
came from aplace, the idea is that of returning, or arriinng, or becoming nearer ; when we fay he 'went from a place,
we conceive fimply departure, or removal to a greater diftance. The but-

To recover his

fenfes.

CO'MELY. adj. [from iecome

Taking a leafe of land for years to ecme, at the
rent of one hundred pounds.

Arbuihmt.

four fevenths.

Thy taper (h.ipe, and comdinefi of fide.

Dryden.

The weight of the denarius, or the fevciith ot
» Roman ounce, ««« eut fixtj-two grains and

the Creation^

iJtfy on

A horfeman's coat (hall hide,

In times to come.
waves (hall wa(h the walls of mighty Rome.

•j'.

fun : hence irifcs a popular divifion oi' comets into
three -kinds, bi'arded, tailed, -and tjircd cmtt% ;
though the divili in ratli^r relates to the diflerent
circemllances of the fame congrr, than to the ph-e-

iiomenaof the (cvtral. Th-j.-wlicntliei.-Trcfi; ;-aft-

V

\

1

wa.-i

COM

COM
wtrd of ilrf lUn, »nd mnvf$ from it, the etmct is

.

The evidence of God's own

tcftimony, added
of rcafibn, concerning the

4 border of hair, h^nce called cr'w'uus,

Recording to Sir Ifiac Newton, the tail of ifsvery thin vapour, emitted by the head or

To confole

2.

from whofe condenfed vapours
and exhalation! all that moifture which is fpent in
vegetations and putrefaAions, and turned into dry

all

putiefa^ion, into earth. Hence the ({uantity of
dry eiEth muft continually increafe, and the moifture of the globe decrcafe, and at laft be quite evaAnd
rated, if it have not a continual fupply.
fufpeft, adds Sir Ifaac, that the fpirit which
part
of
our
makes the fineft, fubtileft, and bed
•ir, and which is abfolutely requifite for the life and
being of all things, comes principally from the (o-

r

with us at Midfummer, as twenty-eight thoufand
to one ; and that the heat of the body of the camit
viaS near two thoufand times as great as that of
He alfo calculates, that a globe of
red-hot iron.
xed-hot iron, of the dimenfions of our earth, would
If then
fcarce be cool in fifty thoufand years.
the ecmgt be fuppufed to cool a hundred times as

red-hot iron, ytt, fincc its heat was two
thoufand times greater, fuppoCng it of the btgnefs
of t)\e earth, it would not be cool in a million ot
as

Trnjoux. Cbamhtrs*

And wherefore gaze this goodly company,
As if they faw fame wond'rous monument,
"Some ccirit, or unufual prodigy ?
Sbakiff. Taming eft be Shre^v.
Such his fell glances as the fatal light

Of ftaring comets,

Crajhaia.

coniidered a cimel. Or, in the language of the
vuigar, a blazing-ftar, as a iky-rocket difcharged
I

by an hand that is almighty.

jUdiJon" s Guardian.
Fierce meteors (hoot their arbitrary light.
And ccmtts march with lawlefs horrors bright.
Prior.

'Co'metary. \a^j. [from ci>met.'\ RelatCome'tick. 3 ing to a comet.
.

/

[Maria arida,

Lat.
It fhould feem that both
ktinfit, Dutch.
are formed by hafty pronunciation from
dry fweetmeat ; any kind of
ccnftS.']
fruit or root preferved with fugar, atid

A

dried.

Uudihrcs.
To make me relifh for dcflcrts.
To Co'.M PIT. t*. a. [from the noun.] I'o

Men fcarce can fee it, much Icfs tafte.
Thou cotKftiJl in flrfcts to make it laft.

Cmvlty.

ot con-

tired me.

We need not fear
Afillen.

Co'm FOR TABLE. ac/J. [from com/art.
Receiving comfort ; fufceptible of com1
of perfons. Not in ufe.
fort ; cheerful
:

For my fake be comfortable i hold death
A while at the arm's end. Stakeff. As you like it.

MilUr.

Raifing mirth ; merry; diverting.

I.

The greatcil refembiancc of our author is in
the familiar ftile and pleafing way of relating conical adventurejof that nature. Drydcn's Fab. Pref.
Something fo comical in the voice and geftorcs,

that a man can hardly forbear being plcafed.

Addifon on Italy.

Relating to comedy ; befitting come-

1.

dy ; not tragical.
That all migiit appear to be knit up In a comical
conclufion, the duke's daughter was afterwards
Hayward^
joined in marriage ti the lord Lifle.
They deny it to be ttagical, bccaufe its caiallrohath
ever
been
afsounted
phe is a wedding, which
Cay%

comical.

Co'micalTv. adv. [from comical.]
In fuch a manner as raifes mirth.
In a manner befitting comedy.

1.

2.

Co'micalness. 71. f. [from fo»«;Va/.] The
quality of being comicsd ; the power of

CO'MICK. adj.

[comicus, Lat. cemijue,
French.]
Relating to comedy ; not tragick.

1

1 never yet the tragick mofe elTay'd,
Deterr'd by thy inimitable maid ;
And when I venture at the comick ftile.
Thy fcornful lady feems to mock my toil,

trailer,

A aimiik fubjeft loves an humble verfc j

My lord leans wond'roufly to difcontcnt
His comfortatie teraper has forfook him ;
SbakeJ/>eare's Timen.
He is much out of health.
of conditions
2. Admitting comfort
What can promife him • «w/irMi/i; appearance
:

South.

before his dreadful judge ?

A plant.

raifing mirth.

By him with many comforts, till we end

3.

com-

[con/oIiJa, Lat.

Co'mical. adj. [<-(f/B;V«j, Latin.]

To pafs commodioufly this life, furtain'd
In dull, our final reft and native home.

». f.

frie, French.]

under calamity

in calamity.
I will keep her ign'rant of her good,
To make her heav'nly comforts of defpair,
When it is leaft cxpedlrd. Sbak. McaJ. fir Meaf.
Your children w^re vexation to your youth.
But mine /hall bi a comfort to your age.
Shakffcare's Richjrd III.

Swift.

Co'mfrey.

Difpenfing comfort ; having the power
of giving comfort.

Thyel^es fcorns a low and comick ftile
Yet comedy fometimes may raife her voice. Kofc,
Thy tragick mufe gives bniles, thy comick deep.
Drydaim

Raifing mirth.

2.

Stately triumphs, mirthful comick (hows.

Such as befit the pleafure.

Sbaieff>eiir/'s Henry VI,

He had no brother, which, though it be am- Co' MING. K.f. [from To come. ]
firtable for kings to have, yet draweth the fubI. The aft of coming ; approach.
jefts eyes afide.

Bacon's Henry VII.

Where art thou, Adam wont with joy to meet
!

The lives of many miferahlc men were faved,

My coming, feen far off' ?

and a comfirtetle provifion made for their fubfift-

In a comfortable manner ; with cheerful ncfs ; without defpair.
Upon view of the finccrity of that performance,

Aliltcn's Paradife Left.

Sweet the coming on
Of grateful evening mild. Mdton't Paradife Lo/f*

Drydcn's Fables, Dedication.

z.

State of being come ; arrival.
May 't pleafe you, nubic Madam, to withdraw
we Ihall give you
Into your private chamber
j

The full caufc of our coming. Sbakefp. Henry VIII.
Some people in America counted their years by
the coming of certain birds amongft them at theit
certain feafuns, and leaving them at othrrs. Locke.

Co'mforter. n. /. [horn comfort.]
Co.MiNC-iN. n.f. Revenue; income.
1. One that adminiftcrs confolation in miseleven widovn
Here's a fmall trifle of wives
;

Sweetmeat.

/e3Kre.]
From country grafs to amfilnres of court.

My mind tranfport.

Though comfortlcfs, as when a father mourns
That unfociable ctmfertlejs dcafnetshad notquite

hope ccmfortatty and cheerfully for God's performHiimmQnd.
ance.

preferve dry with fugar.
Tl e fruit that docs fo quickly wafle,

Co'mpiture. »./. [from comfit,

On thy feet thon ftood'ft at laft,
His children, all in vievf dellroj 'd at once. Miltcm.

Co'mfortably. ad-j. [from comfortable.']

He. crams in nafty crevices.
And turns to comfits by his arts.

Or city's quelque-chofes,

Sbakefpcare' s King yobn.
*

That which gives confolation or fupport

3.

ence.

By iecding me on beans and peafe,
>

New-f fitting to the night
Black, fearful, (omforilefs, and hoirible.

In comf'^rt of her mother's fears,
Btn Jonfon.
Has plac'd among her virgin train.
As they have no apprehenfion of thofe riling;,
TiUcitJon.
fo they need no comfort againft them.

Refraflions oi light are in the planetary and co».

fupport

Fairy aj.

Deep, dark, uncafy, <k-,leful, comfortleft.

mind

or danger.
Her foul heaven's queen, whofe name (he bears,

fiutary regions, as on our globe. Cbtyne^i Phil. Pnn.

CO'MFIT.

the

tb: evil that the Lord bad brought upon him.
yt^, xlii. II.

Confolation ;

2.

The fame great author has computed that the"
fun's heat, in the amtt of 1680, was, to his heat

years*

ftrengthen

Poynlngs made a wild chace upon the wild Irifli
where, in rtfpeft of the mountains and faftneffes,
he did little good, which he would needs impute
unto the ccmfort that the rebels fhould receive unBacon,
derhand from the carl of Kildare.
The king did alfo appoint commlflioners for
value,
were
of
any
and
as
fining
of
all
fuch
the
had any hand or partaking in the aid or comfort of
Bacon.
Perkins, or the Cornilhmcn.

men.

fart

to

Sidntj,

your fcntencc.

Where w as a cave, y wrought with wond'rous ai-f,

Co'mfoiit. n. /. [from the verb.]
1. Support; aflillance ; countenance.

earth, m.iy be refupplied and recruited ; for allvegeubles increafe wholly from fluids, and turn, by

•

;

Yet fliall not my death be comforthfs, receiving
it by

under the prefiiire of calamity.
They bemoaned him, and cMnforttd him, over

by ni«ans of their own gravity, be attratfteJ
down to the planets, and become intermingled with

folutely requifite;

;

thing to allay misfortune ; ufed of perfons as well as things.

Ay^ifc's Par rfcm.

ing and aflifting thi- rebels.

bly,

For the confervaiion of the
their atmcfpheres.
water and moifture of the planets, csmetf fecm ab-

Co'm FORT LESS. aJj. [irom comfort.]
Wanting comfort being without any

;

cnepting a little that appears around it, in form of

nucleus of the ccmet, ignited by the neighbourhood
to the fun; and this vapour is furniOied by theatjtiofphere of tiie ccmer.
The vapours of ccmttt beincr thus dilateJ, rarefied, gnd diffufedimay proba-

Holy, Trinity ; the Paraclete.

unto the natural afl'ent
<ertainty of them, dotia not a little crnifart and conHooker.
firm the ffme.
Light excclleth in eimfcriir.g the fpirits of men
light varird dith tlie fame eifedl, with more noTills is the caufc why precious Hones cimvelty.
Bacon's Niilvral U^icry.
fart.
Snme of the abbots had keen guilty of comfort-

When

pifl is a

to invigo-

rate.

the ami! alid the fun are
train f jIIows it.
diametriciUy oppofite, the earth buitig between
them, tlie crain U hid behind the body of the comet

'

Toftrengthcnj to enliven;

r.

brardcd, /'arhi»<, bfciufe th? light
marches before it. When the liglit ikWcft*aici uf
the fun, the nmct is fiiJ Ui be tailed, beciufe tlie
to br

laid

•

c o U
Kincveh is laid wi(te, who will bemetnherf
whence (ball I fii k comforters fur thee r Neb. iii 7.
*. The title of the Third Perfon of the

let not report

Donne.

To CO'MFORT. V. a. [com/orto, low Latin. Salvia c(,mf(.rtat nervou SdohSal.}

fortunes ; one that ftrengthens and fupports the mind in mifery or danger.
This very prayer of Chrift obtained angels to be
Hooker.
fent him, nscimfirteis in his agony.

and nine maids is a fimple coming-in for one man*
Sbakcffteare.

What are thy rents? what are thy cimings-int

O ceremony, fliew me but thy worth
What is ihy loll, O ailoration ? Sbakrfp. Henry V.
I

The hcav'ns have blel> ycu with a goodly fon,

To be a eomfirtir when he it gone.
Sbakejfiart'i Richard HI.

Com N c
I

I .

.

particifial adj.

[from come,]

Fond ; forward ; ready to come.
Nov»

,

Thofe two cummanding powers of the foul, the

IJow will I be your Rofilini i« a men em'mg
tm (Jiipofition ; and, afk me wbat you will, 1 will
SiakeffMri:.

grant it.

Oil morning wings haw adtive (prings the min J

How eaf/ every labour it purfucs.
How CGmirg to the poet cv'ry mufc

Therightof commanding; power; fuprcme authority. It is uled in military
aiFairs, as jnagiftracy or government in
While yet my foldiers are in my cemmand.
Staiiff can's Henry V.
jhtning fill her avvtul hand,
And make the clouds fecm all at her ammand.

Pife'l Bvace.

!

WiA

Praitc of great atli he fcatters, as a feed

Which may thcilke in coming ages breed. Rofctm.
Comi'tial. adj. [comitia, Lat. an afl'emRelating to the
bly of the Romans.]
aflemblies of the people of Rome.
Co'Miry. »._/". [comiiai, Latin.] Cour-

Did.

tefy ; civility ; gooJ-breediiig.

Co'mma. »./ [wft^*.]
1. The point which notes the diftinftion of

rity.

Hooktf,

the mandate

;

uttered ; order given.
Of this tree wc may not tafte nor touch ;
God fo commanded, and left that command

Be you commar.drejs therefore, princefs, queen

Of all our forces, be thy word a law.
teria.]

Confifting of the fame Diattsr

with another thing.
The b-aks in birds are eommateriii! w'llh teeth.
Bacotr^

Milton' t Parad. Lofi.
Sole daughter of his voice.
As there is no prohibition of it, fo no command
Taylor.
for it.

but merely heterogeneal towards the body to
Bacosi,
beprcfervcd.

terial,

CoMM ATERi a'mty. n.f. [from comma-

_

Xte captain gives command, the joyful train

terial.]

Glide thro' the gloomy Ihade, and leave the main.
Drydin.

The power of overlooking or furveying

^.

any place.

its

Refemblance to fomething ia

matter.

Co'mmeline. n.f.

Miller.

[from commemoDeferving to be mentioned with
rate.]
honour ; worthy to be kept in remem-

Comme'.vior ABLE.

The ftffp)' ftand.
Which overlooks the vale with wide command.

[commelina, Latin.]

A plant.

Dryden's j¥lndd.

adj.

brance.

Comme'mor ATE. "v. a. [ffln and meTo preferve the memory

Tfl

And yielding to another when it blows,

general ; a leader ; a chief.

moro, Latin.]

Commamid a:wa)S by the greater guft ;
Such ii the Ughtnefs of you common men.
Shakejfiare'i Hmrj VI.

We'll do thee homage, and be rul'd by thee;
Love thee as our commander and our king. Sbak.

by fome publick aft ;

Chrill could cemmand legions of angels to hit

1 haVL' given

Should he, who was thy lord, command thee now
With a barlh voice, and fupercilious brow.

them. My foldierf.
Bacon's Apofhtlegmi.
Charles, Henry, and Francis of France, often
adventured rather as foldiers than as commanden.
Hayivard.
Sir Phelim O'Neil appeared as their commander

their army, and ftyled

DryJai's PerJ. Sat. 5.
The queen commavdty and weUI obey.
Over the hills, and far away.
Old Seng,

To order

;

to dire£l to be done :

con-

Supreme commander hotii of lea and land.

My confcience bids me alk, wherefore you have

The beroick 'aflion of fome

Shakefpcare.

ttmmand m,
Excdus,\\\'uz-j.
Whatever hypocrites aufterely tallc

Their great commanders, by credit in their

Of purity, and place, and innocence,

mies,

Defaming as impure what God declares

people.

2.

Our maker bids increafe; who bids abdain
But our deftroyer, foe to God and man ?

Afi/tcn.

To have in power.
If the ftrong cane fupport thy walking hand.

3.

to

;

have

fo

fubjed as

Up to the Eal^ern tower,
Whofc height commimdi as fubjiit all the vale.

^

5.

To lead as a general.
Thofe he ccmmandt move only in command,
nothing in love.
Shaiiffeari'i Macbeth.

TiCoM.MA'ND. V, n.
preme authority; to
power ; 10 govern.

To have the fupoffefs

the chief

Taylor.

St. Auftin believed that the martyrs,

'commemorations were

when the

made at their own fcpulchres,

did join their prayers with the churches, in behalf
of thofe who there put up their fuppUcatinns to God.

ar-

Stillin^feet.

Commemoration was formerly made, with thankfgiving, in honour of good men departed this world.
Aylijfc's Parergon,

A

paving beetle, or a very great wooden
mallet, with an handle about three foot
Moxon.
long, to ufe in both hands.

Comme'morative. adj. [from commtmorate.] Tending to preferve memory of
any thing.
The annual offering of the Pafchal lamb was

An inftrument of furgery.

commt'moraii've of that firC. Pafchal lamb.

Attcrh.

The original ufe of facrifice was commfmorative
of the original revelation ; a fort of daily memorial
or record of what God declared, and manvbelieved.

IVifeman's Surgery.

nuance*

command.']

forSes,

A body of the knights of Malta, be- raCOMME'NCE. v. n. [commencer, Fr.]
longing to the fame nation.
n.f. \commandement

1.

CoMM a'ndment.
I.

Mandate ; command
They plainly require

;

commandment

Booker.
for that which is ejtailcd at their bandi.
Say, you chofe him more after owe commandment.

Than guided by your own affeftions.
Shakcfpeare's Coriolanus.

;

to take beginning:.

Shakejpeare's Macbeth,
Commencing in a truth ?
Man, confcious of his immortality, caiyiot be
without concern for uhat ftate that is to commence

order ; precept.

lotce fpecial

To begin

Why hath it given me earned of fucccfs,

French.]

Of mightiell empire.

Mi/ton.
One lide ccmnaadi a view of the' fincft garden in
the world.
Mdijun't Guardian.

thing.
That which is daily ofTercd in the church, is a
daily commemoration of that one facrifice offered on

into the fcalcs as a counterpoife to the
Stvi/t.

Comma'ndf.r'V. n.f. [from

To fee the light.

Shahff. TroHut and CreJ/ida.
Hia eye might there temmanj wherever Hood
City, ot old or modern fame, the feat

Comme'moration. n.f. [fiom commemoAn aft of public celebration;
rate.]
foUmnization of the memory of any

mander, is of ufe in the moft ftrong tough bodies,
and where the luxation hath been of long conti-

Gay^i Trivia.

To overlook

Such is the divine mercy which we now commemorate \ and, if we commemorate it, we Ihall rejoice
Fiddes,
in the Lord.

The glofloconiium, comm'rnly called the com-

Chairmen no longer Siall the wall ctmmand.

that'it may be feen or annoyed.

fell

to celebrate fo-

•»

the crofs.

great' commander,

enterprifed for the common good, and honour of
Dryden.
the Chriftian caufe.

We will facrifice to the Lord our Cod, as he Ihall

Pure, and amfKands to fome, leaves free to all.

lemnly.

fTal/er.

Commanded of me thefe mod poisonous compounds ?

4.

Clarendon.

in chief.

trary to prohibit.

3.

Ifaiah, Iv. 4.

The Romans, when commanders in war, fpake to

To fervile duties.
2.

him for a leader and commander to

the people.

Decay of Piety.

refcue.

Yairfax.

Commate'rial. adj. [from conzxi^ma-

The body adjacent and ambient is not comma-

Comma'nder. n./. [from command.]
1. He that has the fupieme authority; a

Obeying with my wind when I do blow.

Comma'ndre«%. v.f. [from commander,]
A woman veiled with fupreme authoTo prefcribe the order of doing in all things, 13

:

Louie, this feather,

And he write upon the tables lite word^ of the
covenant, and the ten cejitmandin'n's.
Exodus, xxxiv. I?

a peculiar prerogative, wiach wifdom hath, as qaccn
or fovereign commardrefs, over all other virtues.

3. The aft of commanding

The ninth part of a tone, or the inter-

lative to obey.

the decalogue given by God to Mofes.

He alTumed an abf;>lute ammand tmcr Iris readers.

CoKinand and force may often create, but can
never cure, aa averlion ; and whatever any one is
brought to by compulfion, he will leave as foon as
Locir on Education.
he can.

C'.mmas and points they fet exatl'y right. Pafe.

Shakiff. jlty^liifrrt

By way of eminence, the precepts of

trailer.

Dryden.

marked thus [,].

val whereby a femitone or a perfeft tone
exceeds the imperfeft tone. It ijaterm
ufed only in theorical mufick, to (hew the
exaft proportions between concords. Har.
To COMlMA'ND. -v. a. [commander, Fr.
tnando, Lat,]
to give orders to; to
1. To govern;
hold in fubjedion or obedience corre-

li

0( ^tm commandmcM.
3.

Cogent authority ; defpotifm.

2.

claufes, and order of conrtruftion.in the-

2.

Wr.

Take pity of your town and of your pc4ple.

I

Future ; to come.

fentence ;

with

civil life ;

thought that all things had betn favig- here.

I

And therefore put I on tile counti--nance

Comma'nd. n.f. [from the verb.]
1.

Authority ; coaclive power.

J.

South.

underftanding and the will.

That very lapidary hJrafelf, with a <-»n<;i^ ftoinach, and in tlic co. ':.'$ ylace, would hive majt
L'EJirangc.
the cock's choice.
That he had been (j affcftionate a hufbind, was
Dryder..
no ill argument to the cmir:^ dowager.

t.

COM

COM

COM

after this life.

2.

Rogers.

To take a new charafter.
If wit fo much trom ign'raiKf un^rrg'', .
Pcfie.
let not learning too commmer h: toe !

Ah

!

a.
To begin: to
By the eafy commandment by God givjn to Adam, To Comme'nce. 'V.
make a beginning of: as, to commence
to forbear to feed thpreon, it plctfed Cod to malv
trial of hi! obc4i«i.ce. Raleigh's HiJIory of tbt fVorU.

afuit.

Moil

'Vlok Oiallowly did yoo thefe armi nmmnut,
Tondly brought here, and faoliihly fent hence.

CoMMc'KOABLy. adnj.

e'n cement. ».y; [from cemmtact.'\

Beginning ; date.
The waters were g>tlier;d together into oreplacc,
the third diy from tf>e {-nmineiirrnl of the cri-atitn.
If^uiiTvjrti's

.To

Natural Hi'^cry,

cemmendahly labouring in their vocation.
Care^v^l Survey cj" Cornvjail.

COMME'ND. v. a. [ccmmenJo, Lat.]

provided of a pador. Cciuell.
It had been once mentioned to him, that his
peace Ihould be made, if he would rcfign his bi(hoprick, and deanry of Wcftminfter; for he had
that in commendam,
Clarendcn.

Kml/cs't HiJIvy.

Among the ohjeds of knowledge, two cfpecialour contt-mplatioi) ; the

icnawledgeof Gud, and the knowledge ofoutfelves.
JiaWi Qr'sgitt cf Afankind*
Vain -glory it a principle 1 cemn.cnd lo no man.
Decay >/ Piety.

2

To deliver up with confidence.

.

dam.']

Richard lU.
Father, into thy handi 1 c«>;ffir>i<'myfpiiit. Luke.

Jirydcn'i ViTgiCi ^xcid. Dedication.

Each Anding, i.k.c a friend,
Sometbuig to blame, and foiiiediing to commend.
Pcfe.

To mention by way of Jceeping in meto recommend to remembrance.
Signior Antlionio

Commends him to you.
Ere I ope his letter,
I pray you tell

me how my good friend doth.
Shakejpcare^i Merchant of Venice.

To produce to favourable notice.

5.

The chorus was only tr> give the young ladies an
occafion of entertaining the French king with vocal mufick, Ind of commending their own voice:,.

Dryden's Dufrejmy.

Tofend.

6.

Thefe draw the diariot which Latinus fends,

And the rich prefent to fhe prince cmmends.
Dryden^s j^neid.

Comme'nd. »./ [from the verb.] Commendation.

Not now in ufe.

Tell her I fend to hci my kind c.mmrnJs Take fpecial caie my grcetinfi be dciiver'd.
Sii.ik4l>iafe'i RhhardW.
Comme'nd ABLE. ailj. [from comme><d.'\
Laudable; worthy of praife. Anciently accented on the iirft fyllable.
.

ject and a created underftanding, yet there it a
congruity and connaturality.

Hale's Origin tf Maniini^

To COMME'NSURATE. -v. a. [con and
menjura, Lat.] To reduce to fome com-

mon meafure.

And power, unto Jticjf moft conm, ndable,
Hath not a tomb fr* evident, as a chair
T' extol what it hath done.
Skakrjf. Corhhnut.

Order.and decent ceremonies in the church, are
Bot only comely, but commendai/le.
Baein'i Advice to Villien,
Many heroes, and moft wortliy pcrfonf, being
<Aifliciently ammeiuLl/le from true and uiniuciiionable merit, have received advancement from falfehood.
Bnnvni Vulgar Errcuru
Uritannia is not drawn, like other countries, in
a foft i'earfful pofturr ; but is adorned with emblems that mark out the military genius of her inhabitants.
This is, I think, tlie only cimmendahle
quality that the oil poets hayc touched upon in th«
dcfctiptioa of OMi country.
A^ldijon on Moduli.

'

That divifion is not natural, but artificial, and
by agreement, as the aptcft terms to conimenfuraie
the longitude of places.
Brcii'n's Vulgar Errours,

fitter fubjcft

3.

of commendation.

Sidney.

Ground of praife-

Good-nature is the moft godlike commendation of
Drydeni Juvenal, Dedication.
4. Meflage of love.
Mrs. Page has her hearty commendations to you

Reducible to fome conamon meafure.

1.

They permitted no intelligence between them,
other than by tlie mediation of fome organ equally
ecmmerfurate to foul and body.

Government of the Tongue.

Equal; proportionable to each other.

2,

Is our knowledge adequately commenfarate with
the nature of things ?
Glanville's Scifjii,
Thofe who are perfuaded that they fhall continue for ever, cannot chufe but afplre after a happinefs comnunfurate to their duiation.
Tillotfon,
Nothing commenfurate to the deQres of human
nature, o« which' it could fix as its ultimate end,
without being carried on with any farther defire.

a man.

"Would find out fomcthing to commend'
Ccw/ty.,
Hiftorians commend .Alexander foi weeping when
be read the actions of Achilles.

;

Bacon.

His fame would not get fo fweet and noble an air

Srcnuni Vul^tlr Errours.

^

kingdom.
Praife; declaration of efteem.

to fly in as in your breath, fo could not you find a

Helov'dmy worthlefs rhymes; and, like a friend,

mory

favourable repre-

tion of the great officers of the

2.

Who is Silvia ? What it (he,
That all our fwains cnmmc/.d her ?

4.

Recommendation ;

The choice of them Ihould be by the ammenda-

To prailfe; to mention with approba-

membered, at leaft <vcll undcrflood not.

Commenfurability ; pro-

portion.
There is no eommenfurahlenefs between this ob-

One who holds a living in com-

fentation.
This jewel and my gold are youn, provided I
have your eommendatim for my more free entertainment.
Shakeffieare'i Cytnbeiine.

Siatfjjptare'i

Holy, fair, .ind wife is (he.
Shaiijptare.
Old men do moft exceed in this point of folly,
coTnmei^dir.g the days of their youth they fcarce re-

men/uraBle.']

Commenda'tion. n.f. [fr«m commend.'] Comme'nsurate. ad/, [from the verb.]
1.

tion.

;

Com M e'n su R a b le n ess. »./. [from com-

mendam.

Ere 1 Idt fail the windows of mine eyes
Sleeping and waking, O drfend me iliil

3.

as a yard and a foot are
mealured by a-n inch.

Comme'ndatary. n. f. [from commen-

To thee 1 i'i corr/rcTiJ my watchful foul,

,

mon meafurc

cient clerk, to be fupplicd until it be conveniently

gard, or kindnefs ; to recommend.
Aft;r BaibarolT3.wai arrived, it was known how
ptfcCtuaily the chief biil'i had ctrninmdej him to

Reducible to fome com-

/ura, Latin.]

Commendam is a bcnelice, which,' being void, is
commended to the charge and care of fome fuffi-

.

ly romrttrd themielves to

Com me'nsvr ABLE. adj. [con and »m>

COMME'NDAM. [commenda, low Latin.]

J To reprelent as worthy of notice, re-

Solyman.

[from camnund-

Laudably ; in a manner worthy
of commendation.
Of preachers the (hire holdeth a number, all
ahh.^

Sheliffart.

Co M

COM

COM

C O M

too.

Sbakejfcarc.

Hark you, Margaret,

No princely commcndaticr.s to my king

Rogers's Scrmonu
Matter and gravity are always commenfurate,
Bentley,

Com M e'nsurately. ad'v, [from commen~
With the capacity of meafuring, or being meafured by fome other

/urate.]
!

Such commendations as become a maid,
A virgin, and his fcrvant, fay to him.
Shakefpeare' s Henry Vi,^

Comme'ndaTORY. adj. [from commend.]
Favourably reprefentativej containing
praife.
It doth much add to a manV-i reputation, and is
like perpetual letters ccmmemlatory, to have good
forms J to attain them, it almoft fuHiceth not to
defpife them.
Bacon^s Effiiys,
.
Wc beftow the flourifti of^poetry on thofe romwerdatory conceits, which popularly fct forth the
emintincy of this creature.
Brov^ns Vulgar Err.
If I can think that neither he nor you defpife me,
it is a greater honour to me, "by far, than if all the
houfe of lords writ commendatory vcrfcs upon me.
Pope.

Comme'nder.

n. /.

[from compiend.]

Praifer.

Such a concurrence of two extremes, by moft of
the fame commenders and difprovcrs.
}Voiton.

thing.

We are conftrained to make the day fcrve to
tiie year as well as we can, though not
commcnjuraiely to each year ; but by coUefting the
fraflion of days in feveral years, till they amount

meafure

to an even day.

furate,] Proportion ; reduftion of fome
things to fome common meafure.
A body over great, or over fmall, will. not be
thrown (r far as a body of a middle fize ; fo that,
it feemeth, there muft be a commenfuralion or proportion between the body moved and the force, to
make it mo7c well.
Bacon's Natural Hijlory.
All fitnefs lies in a particular commenfuration, or
proportion, of one thing to another.
South.

To CO'MMENT. -v. n. [commentor, Lat.]
1
To annotate ; to write notes upon an
author ; to expound ; to explain with
:

upon before the thing explained.
Such are thy ftcrets, which my life makes good.

Commensa'lity.
lis, Lat.]

n.f. [from commeu/aFellowftiip of table ; the cuf-

And comments on thee; for in ev'ry thing
Thy words do find me out, and parallels bring,
And in another make me underftand.
Hericrf.

tom of eating together.
They being enjoined and prohibited certain foods,
thereby to avoid community with the Gentiles, upon
promifcuous commenfality.

Criticks having firft taken a llkirg to one of
thefe poets, proceed to comment en him, and illuf-

Breton's Vulgar Err.

tratc him.

Com MENSOR abi'lit V. n.f. [from comCapacity of being compared with anetht-r, as to the mc-afiirc ;
or of being mcafured by anotheo". Thus
an inch and a yard arc commenfurable,
a yard containing a certain namber of
inches ; the diameter and circumference
of a circle are incommenfurable, not
being reduccable to any common meaPropoition.
Someplace ihe efliince thereof in the proportion

of parts, conceiving it to confift in a comely rtm-

Dryden's Juvenal, Dedication.

They have contented thernlcUcsonly tofcwmM/
ufon thofe texts, and make the belt copies they

menfurahle.]

fure.

Holder on Time.

Commensura'tion. n./. [irara commen-

C(!u!d after thofe originals.

I

2.

Temple.

Indeed I hate that any man Ihould be idle„ while
muft tranflate and comment,
Popt,

To make remarks

;

-to

make obferva-

tions.
Enter his chamber, view his lifelcfs corpfe,
And comment then upon his fuddcii de.ith.
Sheskfffeare's Henry VI.

Co'mment. w./

[from the verb.]
I. Annotation's on an author; notes; explanation cxpofition ; remarks.
;

menjurability of the whole unto the parts,

and the

paits between tbemfeivet.

Brown.

A>!am c.mie ir.io the wnvid a philofop^ier, which
appeared by his writing the nature ol things up.m
thcit

COM

Com
Proper geftures, and vehement exertions of the
voice, are a kind of ctmminl to what he utters.
AdJiJon's SprBaior.
Still, with itfelf compar'd, his text pciufe

And let your comment be the Jvlantuan roufe. ?oft.

Remarks

;

Co'm ME ROE. v.n, [from the noun.]

1.

To traffick.
Ezckiel in the defcription of Tyre, and of the
exceeding trade that it had with the Eaft, as the
only mart town, reciteth both the people with whom

In fjch a time as this, it is not meet
That every nice offence ihould bear iu comment.

When they might not converfeor «»iKtrc£ with
any civil men ; whither Ihould they fly but into
the woods and mountains, and thi;re live in a wild

manner?

To hold intercourfe with.

2.

Come, but keep tiiy wonted ilate,
Wiih even llep and ir.uling gait,

Co'm M e n t a r y. ;;./. \commentarius , Lat.]
1. An e:;pofition ; book of annotations or

And looks commercing with the (kies.
Thy rape foul iitting in thine ejes.

remarks.

King Charles,

Memoir ;

2.

narrative in familiar

man-

Comme'rcial.
To

ner.
Vere, in a private commtntary which he wrote
of that fcrvice, teftiB^d that eisht hundred were
Bacon,
fla!D.
They (hew ftjll the ruins of Catfar's v.-3ll, that
reached eighteen miles ir. leijih: as he has declared it in the liril book of his Ccwimenlaries,

other.

Bacon s P.jj'ayt.
This was the end of this noble and cotnmijcrablt
perfon, Edward eldeft fon to the duke of Clarence.
Bacon s henry VII.
mijerable perfons.

Addijim en Italy.

Arbutbnot on Aliments,
2.
Pope.

rate.]

ther fpeak nor think of but with much ammifc-

Hard words or fenfe.

A madman's mercy bade thee run away,

Latin.]
nary.

Invented ;

aJj,

Ccnnniferation.

}

[comml/ceo,
;

Spratt,

commiferation,

La-

No where fewer beggars appear to charm up com-

to unite

miferaticn, yet no where is there greater charity.

Graunt's Bills of Mortality.
I prevailed with myfelf to go and fee

Bleft are thofe,

him, partly

imagi-

Whofe blood and judgment a.-e fo well commingled,
That they are not a pipe for fortune's (inger.

out of c^mmiferation, and partly out of curiofity.

draw a paralleJifm between that
ancient and this modern nothing, and mako good

To found what ftcp (he plcafe. Shah^j^. Hamlet.
To Com M i'k g l e. t;. n. To unite one with

CO'MMISSARY. »./, [commjarius, low

It

is

fiftitious ;

eafy to

tefemblance to that eommenlitious inanity.

its

DilTolutions of gum tragacanth and oil of fweet
almonds do not commirgle, the oil remaining on tile
top till they be ftirred.
Bacon's Pbyjical Rem.

CO'MMERCE. »./ [commercium, Latin.
It

was anciently accented on the laft

CoMMlNu'iBLE. ae(/.

fyllable.]

another;

Latin.]

interchange of any 'thing;

tain purpofe ; a delegate ;

appertaining to fuch^ as exercifes

Placet of publick refort being thus provided, our
mutual confeience,
and, as it were, commerce to be had between God

and us.

Hooker,

How could communities.
Degrees in fchoois, and brotherhoods in cities,

commiffion permits) in places of the
diocefe fo far diftant from the chief city,

Parchment, ficins, and cloth drink in liquors,
though themfelves be entire bodies, and not c-mmiBacon's Natural Hijiory.
nwf:'^, as fand and a(hes.

Shahefjjtare^s Trio/us andCreJftda,

InDru^lcd (hips (hall fail to quick commerce.

Dryden,
Thefe people had not any cmmerct with the
other known parts of the world.
Tilloi/in,

9

CoMMi vu'tion. n.f, [from comminute.]
I .

The aft of grinding into fmall parts

the chancellor cannot tall the fubCotxell.

The commiffarict of bilhops have authority only
in fnme certain place of the diocefe, and in fome
ccrtMn caufes of the jurlfdiftion limited to them
by the bjlhop's commidion.
Ayliffe.

into fmall parts.

Peaceful commerce from dividablc Hiores,

By which remntcft regions are ally'd;
Which makes one city of the univcrfe,
Wliere feme may gain, and all may be fupply'd,

as

jefts.

To CO'MMINUTE. f. a, [comminuo.Latin.] To grind ; to pulverize ; to break

But by degrees (land in authentick place ?

fpiri-

tual jurifdiilion (at leall fo far as his

fu-

he beft diamonds are eomminuible; and are fo
far from breaking hammers, that they fubinit unto
pedilation, and re(i(l not any ordinary pcille.
Brctvn.

repair thither ii efpecially for

a deputy.

It is a title of ecclefiaftical jurildidlion,

2.

'1

.

An officer made occafionally for a cer-

1.

[fxova Comminute.

Frangible ; reducible to powder ;
fceptible of pulverization.

Intercourfe ; exchange of one thing for

trade ; traifidk.

S-wifr.

another.

CiinvVWs Scepjls,

1.

Milton s Paradife Lojl,

From you their eftate may expeft eft'etlual comfort
there are none from whom it may not deferve

intimately ; to mix ; to blend.

\_commentitius,

j

do dely thy commijtratiov.
And apprehend thee for a felon here.
Sbakejpeare' s Romeo andyuliet.
God knows with how much cotnmijeration, and
folicitous caution, 1 carried on that bufmefi, that
I mi£ht neither encourage the rebels, nor difcourage the prote(t»iirs.
King Chariest
She ended weeping ; and her lovely plight
Immoveable, till peace, obtain'd fiom fault
Acltnowledg'd and deplor'd, in Adam wrought
I

Denunciatory ; threatening.

Donne.

Commbnti'tious.

HooKer,
Live, and hereafter fay

The recital of God's threatenings on

To mix into one mafs

Pity ;

Locke.

[from commifi'
compalfion ; tendernefs ;
ft./,

ration and pity.

A threat ; a denunciation of puniiliment, or of vengeance.
Some parts of knowledge God has thought lit to

tin.]

Denbanu

or concern for another's pains.
Thefe poor fcduced creatures, whom I can nei-

dated days.

Slily as any ctmwimtir goes by

and

[con

endeavour to remove it.

Commisera'tion.

memory of their commigraiion hence.

To Commi'ngle. t. a.

a.

to look on with

We (hould commiferate our mutual ignorance, and

Co'm M ENTER, n./. [ from comment. ] One Commi'natorv. ae/f, [from contmination.]
that writes comments ; an explainer ;
an annotator.

;

weight

feclude from us ; to fence them not only by precept
and comminaiion, but with difficulty and impoflibilitics.
Decay of Piety.

that bitter fub-

flaoces engender choier, and bum the blood.

'v.

To pity

Of age, difeafe, or want, commiferale.

tin.]
1.

COMMI'SERATE.

compaffion ; to companionate.
Then we mull thofe, who groan beneath the

Both the inhabitants of that, and of our world,

Dryden,

O'er a learn'd unintell'g ibie place.

once in forwardnel's : for, bcfijes the
dilhonour, it is the guiltinefs of blood of manyr'^-

from one country to another.

COMMINA'TION. t./, [ccmminatio, La-

No commentator can more flily pafs

It is the fmfulleft thing in the world to deftitate
a plantation

A removal of a large body of people

Expofitor ; annotator.
1 have made fuch expolitions of my authors, as

tells us,

mull excite fympathy or forrow.

Milton.

H'l/odiaarJ s Natural ffjlory,

Galen's commenlatir

Worthy of compaffion; pitiable; fuch as

mifereor, Lat.]

[from comment,']

Some of the ammentators tell us, that Marfya
was a lawyer who had loft his caufe.

Co MM i'serable, aeij. [ from commiferate. ]

To

Relating to commerce or traffick.
CO'MMIGRATE. v. n. [con and
migro, Latin.]
To remove in a body,
or by co.nlent, from one country to an-

loft ail

no commen^atcr w'll ftrgivc me.

Caufes of fixation are the even fpreading of the
and tangible parts, the clofencls of the tangible parts, and tiie jejunenefs or extreme fc;?i»:inutim of fpiiits ; of wliich the two firft may be
joined with a nature liqueliable.
Bacon,

[from cotnmerce.]

ai\j,

Beniley,

fpirits

Commigra'tion.w./. [from commi^rale.']

Aidijon-on Italy,

Commekta'tor. n, /,

Sir jf.Davies.

wholly in us.

Attenuation.

2.

they commerce, and alfo what commodities every
Raleigh.
country yielded.

Sbetkefpears,

In rcLgion, fcripturt is the beft rule; and the
church's univerfal praftice, the bed ctrnmeKtary.

Addifcn.

life.

7fl

obfervarion.

Forgive the ccmmer.t that my paflion made
Upon thy feature ; for my rage was blind.
Sbaieff care's King Jchn.
All that is behind will be by way of cmmetit on
that part of the church of Engl.r.d's charity.
Hammond's Fundamentals,

is

Good-nature, which conlilb in overlooking of
faults, is to be exercifcd only in doing ourlelves
j'jliice in the ordinary commerce and occurrences of

Ppor.

So politick an inftruiuent.

2.

Common or familiar intercourfe.

2.

All the volumes of philofophy,

With al'. their ccmnm,':, never could invent

M

C

This fmiting of the fteel with the flint dotli only
make a comminution, and a very rapid whirling and
melting of fome particles j but that idea of flame

In any country, that hath commcrti with the reft
cf the world, itisalmoft impolTible now to be with,
out the ufc of fiiver coin.
Locke.

their nimes : he couid view elTenMi !n themfelvss, and read foi-ms without the cumment of
Scurh^s Sermons^
their reipcftive properties-

3.

An officer who draws up lifts of the
numbers of an array, and re^^ulates the
procuration and conveyance of provifion
or ammunition.

;

pulverization.
The j^w in men, and animals furnilhed with
grinders, hath an oblique or tranfvcrfe motioia, ne-

cc(raryfor«mBJ«»(i{flof the meat- Raytmtbc Great,

But is it thus you Hnglilh bards compofe ?

With Runick lays thus 1.1^ infipid profe ?
And when you (h.iuld your heroes deeds rehearfe.
Give ut a (ommiffarj'i lift in verfc ?

Prhr,

Co'm MIS-

COM

COM

Co'mmissakiship. n. f. [from «jw««/The office of a commiflary.
fery.

As he WIS thus fent by his father, fo alfii were
the apolllei lolemnly comiKi^oMicJ by him to preach

COM

•

to the Gentile world, who, with indefatigable induflry and refolute fuf^'crings, purfued the charge j
and fure this is competent evidence, that the ^tfign

A

ccmm'JIiinjhif is not grantibic for life, fo as
to bind the fucceeding biihop, thuugh it fhould

be confirmed by the dean and chapter.

Commi'tmsnt. n./. [from commit.^
I .

not appear by any new maminations or
th.'vt any other perfoii was difcoverej
or impeached.
Bai^n.
They were glad toxompound for his bare com'
miirnent to the Tower, whence he was within few
days enlarged.
Clarendor.
I have been con£dering, ever Hnce my eotrtmit^
tnentf what it might be pt^[>cr to deliver upon this
occaHon.
Swifu
It did

eommitjKeitSf

was of the moft weighty importance. Oecay of Fitly.

Ayliffct FareTjten,

COMMl'SSION. n.f.\tcmmi£io, low La- CoMMi'ssioNER. n. /. [ftotn commt^tn .]
One included in a warrant of autJtority.
A commyfiorter is one who hath commiiTioo, as

tin.]

The adl of entruftin? any thing.

1.

letters patents, or other lawful warrant, to execute

A truil; a warrant by which any truft

2.

is

any puhlick olHce.

held, or authority exercifed.

CemmilJim is the warrant, or letters patent, that
jurifdidion, cither ordinary or
extraordinary, have for their power.
CnuelU
Omiflion to do what is neceflary.
Seals a csmanijjitm to a blank of danger.
Shairjfearci Tro'ilui imi Crejp.da,

lities.

;

CoMMi'ssuRB. ». /

All thefe inducements cannot countervail the
inconvenience of disjointing the ctmtmijfu^es with fo
many ftrokcs of the chiiTel. iVotrons jiycbileiiure.
This animal is covered with a ^rong (h-ll,
jointed like armour by four tranfverfe CQmmiJJitrcs
in the middle of the body, conneAed by tough

COMM'IT. 'V. a. [committo, Latin.]
1. To intruft
to give in trull; to put

Who drinks, whores, fights, and in a duel dies.

;

of other nicn's fins, but a Jcriver of the whole guiit

thus to commit
Your weak condition to the raw, cold morning.

to himfelf;

Is

Every ccmmijjion of fin introduces into the foul
a certain degree of hardnefs.
Sauit'i Sermons.
He indulges himfelf in the habit of known fin,
whether covmi^i.n of fomething which God hath
forbidJen, or the omiflion of fomething com-

manded.

Drydens Perjius.

To fend to prifon

3.

They two were committed,

Al'Juuigh at large,

1

am bound over.

;

to

be

5.

miffion.'\

To.cojiuniflion;

not in ufe.

to empower:

Wei-c thy eommixion Greek and Trojan, lb
That thou cnuld'ft fay, this hand is Grecian all.

And this isTrojan.

To put together for a conteft

:

ture ; incorporation ; union of various
fubftances in one mafs.

Some fpccics there b«*<of middle and part'ic'paCing natyrrs, that it, of birds and beads, as batts,
and fomc few others, fo confirmed ar^l fet toge-

a Latin-

ther, that we cannot define the beginning or end
of cither; thcie being a comtrixtion of both in
the whole, rather than adaptation or cement of the
one unto the other.
£t%iuns yulgar Errourt,

How becomingly does Philopolis excrcifc his

6.

and leafonably ccmmit the opponent with

To place in a ftate of hoftility or incongruity

:

Co M M I'x T u R E n.f. [ from commix. ]
the ftate of be1. The aft of mingling
.

;

a Latiniiin.

Harry, whole tuneful and well me ifiir'd fong

mufuk how to fpan

Siakcfp. Trt'tlus and Crrjjida.

Com mi'xtion. n.f. [from ccmmix.] Mix-

ifm.

the rcfpoiident, like a long pcaftifcj moderator.
Z'f'c's Dii'ine Dial.

Vrydcns .^.nciil.
[fiomrofla

dients.

humane in.urrfers committed there upon a multitude

office,

a.

tBre ; incorporation of different ingre-

Letters nut of Ulftcr gave him notice of the in-

;

In thr. at'ning cmbalTy.

GoMMl'xiON. »./. [from commix.'] Mix-

guilty of a crime.
ICecp thy word juftly ; fwear not ; commit not
.with nun's fworn fpoufe,
Siakufp. King Lear.

Clarcr.dcn.
of the Protcftants,
A creeping young fellow eommitted matrimony
L'Ejirangc.
with a brilk gamcforoe lafi.
*
*Tis policy
For fon and father to take dificrent fides ;
Then Kinds and tenements commit no treaftm. Dryd.

Ray an the Creation.

It is manifcil, by this experiment, that the commixed impreflions of all the colours do ftir up and
beget a fcnfation of white ; that is, that whitencfs
is compounded of all the colours. Ne-u'tan's Opticks,

Hudihras.

To perpetrate i to do a fault

4.

To e;n.power to appoint.
z. To fend with mandate or authority.

?£ CoMMl'sSlON ATE. V.

jduft and rain water commixed.

Clarendon,

To CoM.Mi'ssiON. v.a. \{rom commijpon.'\

The peace polhited thus, a ihofen b.ind
He liril commi^'im to the Latian land.

of frogs in die clouds ; or, on the earth, out of

at Icaft reftrained of

My

faftor trades for another pcrfon.

I .

great colour^
Bacon,
I have written againll the fpontaneous generation

So, though my ankle (he has quitted.
heart continues ilill committed \
And, like a baii'd and m.iin-priz'd lover,

;

The order by which a

A dram of gold dilfoUcd in aqua regia, with a
dram of copper in a^ua fortis cetnmixed, gave a

;

thrir liberty.

The ilate of that wliich is entrufted to
a number of joint officers as, the broad
[In commerce.]

To Co.MMi'x. Ki. a. [^commi/ceo, Lat.] To
mingle ; to blend ; to mix j to unite
with things in one mafs.

prince, for ftriking him about Bardolph.
Shakejprare's Henry IV.

Rcgtrs's Sermons.

feiil iK-ar put into comntijfion.

Bcfides the jniftakes cgmmiltii/e in the folary

compute, the difference of chronology difturbs his
computes.
Mro-wn.

to imprifon.
nobleman that committed the

Here comes the

or office.

8.

I

And to the trufty earth commit the found.

A r^umber of people joined in a truft

7.

ble .to be committed.

my mufe controul'd

By fervile awe ? Born free, and not be bold
At Icaft I'll dig a hole within the ground.

South.

Commi'ttible. aeij. [fromcewB//.] Lia-

They who are deiirous to commit to memory,
might have«afe.
z Mac. ii. 25.

fpoke.

Aft of committing a crime ; perpetration. Sins of commij^on a.re diilinguifhed
in theology from fins oi omfjfton.

Shak^fpcare.

yet io as to leave the committer as full

of guilt as before.

To put In any place to be kept fafe.

and nccelfity.
Macon's JVar vi'ah Sfain,
Such cftmnt'tjjion from above

Per-

into the handi of another.

2.

to hold their hands contrary to the laws of nature

ff^akon,

petrator ; he that commits.
Such an one makes a man not only a partaker

\

4. Charge; mandate; office; employment.
It was a both a ftrange ccmmijjion, ar.d a ftrange
obedience to a {vmmij/ion. fo; men, in the midtl
of their own blood, and being fo furioufly alTliiltd,

have recciv'd, to anfwcr thy defire
Of knowledge within bounds. Milton s Far* Loji.
At his command the ftorms invade;
The winds by his ccmmijjion blow.
Till with a nod he bids them ceafe.
Drjdin.
He boie hia great a;mmij/isn in liis look ;
But fwcetly tcmper'd awe, and foften'd all he

this covenant.

CoMMi'TTER. »./. [from commit. 1

It is not for your health,

He for his fon a gay ccmmijjicn buys,

I

Ray on the Creation.

Ifo

Mdifm's Freibclder.

Pope.

[cemmij/'uro, Latin.]

membranes.

CoweJ/.

Manchefter had orders to march thither, having
a committee of tha parliament with him, as there
was another committee of the Scottilh parliament
always in that army ; there being alfu now a
committee of both kingdoms rcfiding at London,
<'or the carrying on the war.
Clarendon.
All corners were filled with covenanters, confuiion, cottsmittee men, and foldiers, ferving each othtf
to their ends of revenge, or power, or profit; and
thefe committee men and foidiers were pofl"eft with

Joint ; a place where one part is joined
to another.

A warrant by wliich a military officer is
cor.ftitutedSnlyinan, filled with the vain hope of the con^uert of Perfia, gave out his comr.ijians into all
parts of bis empire, for the raifmg of a mighty
army.
Kmllei's H'JIoryofrhe Turks.
I was made a colonel ; though I gained myrwum:Jfi'.n by the horfc's virtues, having leapt over a

6.

are called a committee.

Pope's Dunciad.

with inftruftion-: by one he conveys
power, by the other knowledge.
South,

5.

parliament, after a bill it read, it is either agreed
to and palled, ar not agreed to; or neither of thefe,
but referred to the cunlideration of fome appointed
by the huufe to examine it farther, who thereupon

Sivifi.

my place and perfonj

fix- bar gate.

whom it belongs, or by confcnt of parties. As in

Like are their merits, like rewards they fliaiej

ccmmijjion

3.

.

Thofe to whom the coniidcration or ordering
of any matter is referred, cither by fomc court tj

That fliines a conful, this commjffioner.

He would have them fully ac(];iainted with the
nature and extent of their office, and fo he joins

"

z. An order for fending to prifon.
Com m i't t e n. /. [from commit.^

"

Shakcjpeare' s Haiiy VIII.

The which immediacy may well ftand up.
And call itfclf your bro'Jier. Shakefp- King Lear.

.

commijfiuners

Ciarendon.
of the treafury.
Suppofe itircraryr^mm/^off^stoinfpeG, throughout the kingdom, into the condu£l of men in office,
with refpect to morals and religion, as well as abi-

T'lc fixth part o( hii fubrtancf, to be levied

flore the eumm'iffion of

Sidney.

came into England, with
whom covenants were concluded.
Hayward.
The archbilhop was made one of the commj^iorers
Thefe

Comei through ectnmtffrvi, which compel from each

He led our powers

have agreed upon.

commijftoners

The fubjedls grief
Without delay.

Cornell.

One article they (load upon, which I with your

all iTten cxerciling

A&. of fending to prifon ; imj>rifonment.

.

ing mingled; incorporation; union in
one mafs.

Woidii with juft note and accent, not to fcan

In the f»mmi*/Br< of any thing that !s more oily
or fwcrt, fuch bodies arc leaft apt to putrefy, the

With Midas' eats, mmtnittir.g Ihoic and long.

air working liltlc u^oa them.

Flrlt t.ui,3lit our Englilh

Milicn.

^tcttfl Natural HiJIiry.

1.

The

COM
The mafs formed by mingling different

«,

things ; coinpoiition ; compound.

Shekcjp:art,

My love and fear glew'd many friends to thee

;

And now I fall, thy touijh ,-oKmixturfs melt.
TTiere Ts fcarcely any rifing but by a c^mmixiun
Biu^n.
of eood and evil arts.
All the circumftanres and refy-efl of religion and

[French.]

2.

It had been difficult to make

Wares

Sht, like Tome pesGve Aate(man, walks demure,

And fmiles, and bugs, to make deilrudtlijn fure
Or uii^cr high corrmiodct, with looks erc£V,

Such a plate cannot be c'jtnmojkus to live in { for
being (o neat the moon, it had been too near the
Ra/iigb'i liijlir/.
To that reeds, ecmtuditit for furprize.

lUn.

-,

Bacchus had found out the making of wine,
and many things cll'e c.mmodioui for mankind.
Jtn/eigb'i Hi/lory if tbt IVwli.
The gods have done their part,
By fending this iummuimt plague. Dryd, OeJif ui.
Maro's mufe,
Tlirict facred nufr, rommeiihui precepts gives,
Inftrufiive to the fwaim.
fb'iRfi.

fliips

I.

z.

To pafs cimrnodiftujty this life, fudaln^d
In duft, our Anal left and aatM-e liomii.
Miliin'} ParjJI/t LiJI.

Of citici, the grcatnefi and /ichcs incrcafe according to Ilie Kmm'JiouJvtfi of their fituation in
fertile countries, or upon rivers and havens. 'Cimblt,

Commo'ditv. ». / [e^mmof/aat, Lian.']
I.

Intereft ;

Vo... J.

advantage;

profit.

common ground.

ifatute law,

Da^'tci,

Publick J general j ferving the ufe of

|

MJiJ-.r. 11:

5.

it having that /» i-tmmtn with dictionaand books of antiijuities. jirhttthnot on Coins,

puerilities;

fcarce.

1

as

Equally with another ; indifcriminately.
In a work of this nature it is impoflible to avoid

ufages which have, by long prt-fcription, obtained in this nation the force

Rome, which ran fiom all

Convenience; advantage.

1.

Vulgar ; oiean ; not dillinguifhed by
any excellence ; often feen ; eafy to be
had ; of little value ; not rare ; not

need nut picntlon the old rdirfn^jr^^bore of
arts of the town, with
(he current and violence of an ordinary river.

South t ^trmcttlt

near the fea, for the timmidi'jufnefi o»
»fi intercourfe with England.
Saicn.

By making an eaplicite confcnt of every commttncr nccellary to any one% ajipropriating to himfelf any part of what is given in cominor., children or
fervants could not cut tlie nicat^'hch their father
or mailer had provided for them in comr.on, without ailigning to every one his peculiar parr. Lpckf^

Common Law contains thofe cuftoms and

flria in rcadlnji all the commsn prayer, but make
fomc variation.
ff'ulim.

[ftomcsmmo-

Etjuiilly to be participated by a certain

number.

and fo become again pcrfe^ly common \ nor
can anyone have a propert) in them,utncrwife than
in other things comitkn by na'ure.
Lo^ki''

He was advlfcd by a parliament man not to \k

more ttmrnoiliaijly placed l«r ufe or comelinef>.

The place rcquircth many ciicumltances ;

I.

To Co'mmon. t. n. [from the noun.] To
have a joint right with others in forae

all.

i/ssiif

Calen, upon the ci.niiJcration of the body, challenges any one to find how the \tit\ fibre might be

flic fituitior,

Siaktfpcari' s As ycu lite it.

polH'llions of a private man revert to the commu-

To the reports of lOminon nten commit.
4.

am more than cummen tall.

Common.

In

ries,

Ur as the man, whom princes do advance
Upon tbtir gracious mercy -frat to fit,
Poth r«mMi^ff things, of C';urie and circumlKmce,

By him wirfi many comforts, till we end

t/iius.]

I

Belonging equally to more than one.
Though life and fcnfc be common to man and

Having no pofleflbr or owner.

adjetlive.]

;

.

nity,

We need not fear

n. /.

Co'mmon, ad'v. [from the
Commonly ordinarily.

who commands a fljuadrou of
a temporary admiral.

Where no kindred arc to be founil, we fee the

Without diftrefs.

CoMMo'oiousNESs.

;

yet by this form he liv.s the lili uf a man, and not
of a brute ; ajid hatli tlic fenfe of a man, and not ol'
a brute.
llaU^s Orhin of Miinlh:d.
He who hath received damage, lias, bcfidcs liie
right of punilhment comtn'M to him with other
mt-n, a particular right to leek reparation. Loikt.

3.

the- fame

t-cckc*

brutes, and their operations in many things alik'

CMvlty,

thing to Icrvc cjmm.iiy.ttfly for Jivcrs ends,

Stakefpmre's yuHus Cafar.
not the fuparate property of a thing the great
caulc of its endearment? Docs any one rcl]>fct a
common as much as he docs Iris garden?
South,
Is

money,

CO'MMON. «./. [communis, Latin.]

£.ou\*o' a io\J iLY . culv.liTOmctmmodious.l
Conveniently.
1
At the large root of an old hollow tiec.
In a deep cave featcd comimjleujlyf
His ancient and hereditary houfc.
There dwelt a good fubit jntial couittry moufe.

And graze in cmmim,

Skak. Mtrch, ofVtmct,

Commodo''r.e. It. f, [probably corrupted from the Spanilh lonmaru/ador.] The
captain

fuited to wants or necefGties.

3. Suitably to a certain purpofe.
WifJ im may have framed one and

Then take we down his loaj, and turn him olf.
Like to the empty afs, to (hake his cars,

kind, the principal ufe is that of faving the commutation of more bulky ciimmod'ii'iis.
Arhutbn9t on Coitii.

Pi-ft'i Odyffij.

If they think we ought to prove tire ceremonies
ammcdiovi, they do greatly deceive theml'clvcs.

2.

fons.

Of money, in the commerce and tra(?ick of man-

purple light thall next fuffufc the Ikies,

Ufeful

Co'mmon. n.f. [froai the adjcftive.] Ail
open ground equally ufed by many pw-

merchandife ; good:^ lor traf-

To raile a prefent fum.

hindrance or uneafinefs.

J,.

fuch a mole where

Commodiiiis are ni'iveables, vjtuablc by
the common meafure.

Convenient; fui table ; accommodate
any perlbn ; fit ; proper ; free from

Such verbs as fignify

both adtion and palTion are called common ; as afpernor, I defpife, or am dej'pije-d ;
and alfo fuch nouns as are both
mafculine and feminine, as parens,

Nor have I money nor r5«ff5</rfv

to

With me repair.

SficiJatJi;

[In grammar.]

8.

All my fortunes are at fca

COMMO'DIOUS. ai/J. [conmoJus, Lat.]

When

j

!

common.
L'EJfrange.
Hii>parchus was going to marry a common woman, but confulted Philander upon the occalion.

ikk.

\

Barefai;'d dc\ouii, in gaudy colours deck'd. G/an-v,

J.

women

j^dififir. on Jiuly*

ter.

3.

Szeiff*

I'roftitute.
'Tis a llrange thing, the impudence of fomc
was the word of a dame who lierfelf yas

Convenience J particular advantage.

they had not fo natural :x commodity as the earth of
Puzzuola, which immeUiateiy hardens in the w.t-

fetting of her f (nrffiot/ff ; fo that it will be impo/Iiblc
tor any woman that is difai&ded to be in the fa-

VrcebiUtr.

rations in nature.

7.

adjoined as a retraction to the other.
Sidrcy,
She demanded leave, not to lofe this long fou^htiS'ldmy,
for commodity of rime, to cafe lier heart.
Travelicrs turn out of the highway, drawn cither
by the commodity of a fooc-path, or the delicacy or
the freihncfs of the lields. Ben Jonj'ons Dsjcoveries*

The head-

Adii'tjnn'i

Neither is it ftrange that there Ihould be myf.
as weil as in the commoKiji ope-

tcrics in divinity,

There came into her bead certain vcrfiis, which,
if fhe had had prefent c.mmodity, ihc would have

drefs of women.
Let them rcflefl how they would be aflcftcd,
fliould they meet with a man on horfcback, in his
breeches and jack-boots, die/ted up in a eommodt
SpcHaf.r.
and a nightrail.
She has canttivcd to (hew her principles by the

jhion.

Frequent ; ufua-1 ; ordinary.
There is an evil which 1 have feen cowman among
men.
Ecclcf. vi. i.
The Papi(}s were the moft common place, tni
the butt ;ii;ain(l whom all the arrows were directed.
CWmdor.

Sbakefpeares K'^ng yoln.
After much dcbatcment oi the ammctuna or
difcommoditi^ like to cnfue^ they concluded.
Haytvard,

Shukijpeari.

intermixed together in their eamrxixtiu-e, will
better become a royal hiftory, or a cuuncil-table,
Woitciu
than a fingle life.

For fuch a lofs Opdam his iifc nvitt pay, U^jiter,

6.

From all dire^ioiiy purpofe, courfc, intent.

Impairing Henry, ftrength'ning mil'proud York.

ftate

They mifj, or fwecp but lvkkoh fouls away)

unto others, it was not to be (uftcred,
Hr^vUrCw.mooityy the bial's of the world,
The world, which of itfelf is poifed well,
Till this advantage, this vi!e drawing biafs.
This fway of moti.n, this rcfffmst^iry,
Makes it take head fr .m ail indiffert:ncy.

Fair ladies, maik"d, are rofts in the bud.
Or angels vcii'd in clouds; are rofes blown,
Dil'malfe'd, their dawflc (wcct commixtun (hewn,

Commo'de. n. f.

COM

COM
They knew, that howfocver mfn may ftek tliQu
own c(.mmodiijy yec, if this were done with injury

Of no rank

;

If illy.

mean j without birtli or

defcent.
Look, as I blow this feather from my face,

And ai the air blows it to mc again,
&ucb ii the lightncfi of you rotimm men
Stahj'fuart'i Htnry VI.

Flying bullets now,
To execuM liis rage, appear too flow j

of laws.

is dilHnguidied from the
which owes its authority to

It

nils of parliament.

Common Pleas. The king's court now
held in Wcfimlnfter Hall, but anciently
moveable.
Qimih obferves, that till

Henry

granted the magna chart a,
but two courts, the exchequer, and the king's bench, io calTed
btcaul'e it followed the king ; bur, upon
tlie grant of th.it charter, the rourt of
common pleas was eredled, and fettleii
at Wcllminfler.
All civil caufes, both
real and peilbnal, are, or were, formerly
III.

tiiere were

tried

in this court, according to the
laws of the realm ; and Fortefcue
reprelents it as the only cgurt for real
llrift

caufes.
The chief judge is called the
lord chief juflice of the common pleas,

and he is aflilled by three or four afTo-

2*

ciates,

COM
ciates,

COM

COM
/or n«;n to acciife their own faults In otW-i; perCmfrrmait of thi TcKgut.
fons.

created by letters patent from

the king.

C'ewe//.

Co'm mon able. aifj. [from cemKon,] What
is held in common.

2.

Much good land might be gained from forcfV;
and cdulis, and from other uiKmixniU placrs, (j
>> thire ht cire taken that the pjor commoners
have no injury.
Bactx to V:!I'.fu

Frequent occurrence ; frequency.
Blot lot tliat maxim, r« nclun! dm m.tU aitmr'/lrjn: the canniKna'/i makes me not know who
the aulhor; but fuit he muft be fome modern.

ik

Swift.

To Co M M o X p L a'c e. 1: a. Ta reduce to
general heads.

Co'mmon-Ace. K.f. [from common.]

I'hc
right of feeding on a common ; the
joint right of ufing any thing in com-

1 'i )

not appr-'iiund anydiliicultyincolleflingand

ccmpinfi/acifg an univtrfil liiO.ory tram the hiftoFtlton.
riins.

3.

A government in which the fuprcinepower is lodged in the people ; a republick.

Did he, or do yet any of them, imagine

The gods w uld (leep to fuch a Stygian praflice,
Againil that commonwealth which they have found*
cd ?
yonjon^
C-Mm'.nvjealihs were nothing more, in their oricities
though
fometimes,
;
ginal, but free
by force
of order and difcipline, they have extended themfelves into mighty dominions.
Temple.

Co'm morance. 7 n,f. [from commerant.\
mon with others.
Dwelling; habita*
Commonpla'cb-book. n./. A book in Co'mmorancy. J
Co'mmonalty. n. /. [communaute,'?T.']
refidence.
which things to be remembered are
tion ; abode
The very quality, carriage, and place of re«mn«.
1. The common people; the people of the
ranged under general heads.
;

lower rank.

I

To gain the love o* th" tommontihy

j

Sb»kc(peare.

Refident; dwelling; inhabiting.
The abbot may demand and recover his monk,

Sbakeffean.

Thefe three Co kings and chiefs their fcenes dif-

fecret

acknowledg.

And, on the right and left, the palace bound ;

'Tis to b« fear'd they all will follow him.

the nobisr fort,
With winding doors wide open, front the court.

SBakcfpfare's Henry VI,

:

the people are reprefented, and of which
the members are chofen by the people.
Aly good lord.

lomeof his!oyal^5w;m£flfrx. jiddijt,nt Frteboldcr,
mun not noble.
This ccm^nnii has worth and parti.

A

arms, or lov'd for arts
His head aches for a coronet
Is prais'd for

And who is blefs'd that is not great ?

There is hardly a greati^r difference between two

:

5.

no injury.

Eactn's Ad'vice to J^iUiers.

A lludent of the fecond rank at the
univerfity of

Oxford ; one that eats at

Claraidow,.

3.

Difturbance ;

Sacrifices were ofl'eredwhen an earthquake happened, that he would allay the commotions of the water, and put an end to the earthquake.
ff'oodward's Natural Hifory.

;

Likes both his company and commons.

Swift.

commilTioneis, docked together, as clouds duller

Co M M o N w e' A
In,/. [ from- common
agalnft a ftorm.
Hayward.
Commonwe'alth. 3
and iveal, or To Commo've. v. a. [commoveo, Latin.]
ivealth.]
To difturb to agitate to put into a
I, .

;

A polity

1

;

an eftablilhed form of civil

Two foundations bear up publitk foc'ieties

latter is that which we call the

nvcal.

Hooker.

Dnvies on Ire/and,

A continual parliament would but keep the r&;«mmzunil in tune, by ptcferving laws in

This hand of yours retiuirei

their vi-

Kir.g Charles.
There is no body in the commomvealtb of learn-

gour.

Much cafiigation, eiercife devout

ing who docs not profefs himfelf a lover of truth.
Locke.

For here 's a ftrong and fweating devil here.
Sbukefftere's Otttlh,

A great dileafc may.charge the frame of a budy,
though, if it lives to recover (Irength, it ccmmor/y
7<:m^le.

Co'm MOH NESS. «. /. [from fo/»«9«.]
1. Equal participation among tnauy.
Nor can the conrr'jr.refs of ttic guilt obviate the
more fr(i|ticuC tbap

ccniuie, there bci»j nothing

law of a conmon-

.•

fions throughout the kingdom.

for the

jnoft part.

rrtiirn< 10 its natural conftit-jtion.

the

It was impolTible to make a csmmoniveal in Ireland, without fettling of all the eftitcs and polTcf-

;

That (immvn/y rebels.

;

men defire fociable

the ntlier an order agreed upon, touching
the manner of their union in living together i tlie

.

quently ; ui'uaUy ; ordinarily ;

all

life J

yet, for all that.

2.

;

violent motion ; to unfettle.

Not uftd..

Straight the fands,

one inclination, whereby

He gave it to a comt!i:nir 0' th' camp.
Shahff.
C M M o N i't 1 N ti.j. [commonitio, Latin.
Advice ; warning inllruilion,
Co' MM ONLY. adv. [(xom common.] Fre-

reftleflnefs.

of the peace.
A word not in ufe.
The people, m^re regarding commotioners than

A

t

moiion, wb<n the argument was not of moment.

life.

proltitute.
Behold this ring,
Whofe high tcfpedt, and rich validity,

Did lack a parallel

Shskelpeare's Henry VUI.
He could not debate any thing without fomecoB-

Nor did their minds an equal banquet want. Dryd,
The dodlor now obeys the fummons.

the common table.
6.

I> In bis brain; he bites his lips, and (larts,

Commo'tioner. n.f. \_Uom commotion.]
One that caufes commotions a dt4lurber

Much land might be gained from commonable
places, fo as there be care taken that the poor com-

Perturbation ; diforder of mind ; heat ;.
violence ; agitation.
Some (Irange commotion

Their commons, though but coarfe, were nothing

Siaift.

ground.

aietrri have

Brocme^s Notes on the OdyJJly.

Mean while (he quench'd her fury at the flood.
And with a Icnten fallad cooi'd her blood

One who has a joint right in common

4.

motion ; the Odyfley in patience and wifdom.

2.

leges, where it is eaten in common.
He painted himfelf of a dove colour, and took
VEJIrange.
his commons with the pigeons.

things, than there is between a reprefcnting commivcr in his publick calling, and the lame perfon
in common lite.

The Iliad con(i(ls of battles, and a continual com-

Urg'd by the commons? Doth hit majefty
Incline to it, or no ?
Shatifpeares Henry VI.
In the houfe of commons many gentlemen, unfatisficd of his guilt, durlt not condemn him.
King Charles.
3. Food ; fare ; diet: fo called from col-

Prior,

Luke, xxi. 9.

not tcrriiicd.

How now for mitigation of this bill

A member of the houfe of commons.

3.

When ye (hall hear of wars and commotions^ be

Drydm.

Shakffptare* i CnrioJarius.

difturbance ; combuAion ; fe—

By fla.t'ry he hath won the common hearts
And, when he'll pleafe to make commotion,

Doubt not

His great men durft not pay their court to him,
till lie hid fatiated his thirll of blood by the death

;

The reft before th' ignoble commons play. Dryd. Fab,
The gods of greaier nations dwell around.

The ccwmonrrs, for whom we (land, but they,

z.

Tumult

1.

dition ; publick diforder; infurreftion.

The comment where they can

Upon their ancient malice, will forger.

and reliding in another mor.ajiylife's Parergon.

Commo'tion. n.f, [commotio, Latin.]

2. The lower houfe of parliament, by which

low rank, of nuean condition.

is commorant

(iery.

play.

Co'm MON ER. ti.f. [from common.']
I. One of the common people; a man of

o;

that

Stakeffeart's Richard II.

ccmmora/tft bearing record of the God
HookiT.

Aylifc's Parergon.

tin.]

Hath he not pafs'd the nobles and the commons ?

The bulk of mankind.
tif Gods.

his abode and commorancy,

CO'MMORANT. adj. [commorans, La-

Except, like curs, to tear us all in pieces.

MUti^ni ParaJifi Lc^.
All gentlemen are almoA obliged to it ; and 1
Jtnow no reafon we fho-jld give that advantage to
the ciimmoxaity of £ngiand, to be foremoft in brave
aftiirs.
Dryd.n,
ufe the

je£l to the archbilhop of the province where he has

The hateful common will perform for us ;

Of cot/imtKaky,

will

Hale.

An archbilhop, out of his diocefe, becomes fub-

Little office

Bacon,

myfelf too

and found
TatUr.

;

The emmet joined in her popular tribes

1

my aminoitf'htt-took,

The vulgar the lower people j thofe
who inherit no honours.

1

There is in every Itate, as we know, two portions of fubjcds ; the nobles, and the cammirally.

nnt'iit of the

(o

Co'm MON s, n. f.

the duke

Sluil govern England.

2.

turned

his cafe under the word coquette.

Bid him ftrivc

ranee, of witnefles is plainly and evidently fet forth.

The publick ; the genera! body of the
people.

Commov'd around, in gathering eddies play.
Thomfn^s Sutnmer,
1'. n. [commuitico, LaTo

CO'MMUNE.

tin.]

To converfe; to talk togethar j

to impart fentiments mutually.
So long ai Guyon with her communed.
Unto the ground (he call her modeft eye
And ever and anon, with rofy red,
The balhful blood-iier <aoW7 checks did dye.
Fairy £^een.
twill eomr.iir^ with you of fuch things
That want no ears but yours.
fhakijpi.jre's Mt^fure fr Meafure,
TJiey would foibc.ir open hodility, and refort unto hi m peaceably, that they might commune together
as friends.

Hayward,

Then commune, how tliat day they br-ft may ply
Such a prince.

So kind a father of the commonweal, Sbak. B, IV.
Their fons are well tutored by you : you are a
good member of the commonwealth,
Staktffeart'i Ltvt'l iaitur Lfft-

Their growing wark.
Afi/tcn's Paradifi L-^.
Ideas, as ranked under names, arc thofe that,
for the moft part, men rcilbn of within thcmfclws,
and always thofe which tbey csmmune about vfuh
Lode.
others.

COMMV)-

COM

CO M

COM

'CoMMUNicABi'iiTv. «./. [from ««-' 2. To have fomething in common with
ynunicalle-l The quality of being comanother; TiS,thehoufescoriimtnticate; there
'municable capability to be imparted.
is a palfage between them, common to
both, by which either may be entered
Com mu'njc ABLE, adj, [from communi-

The common or publick celebration o^
the Lord's Suoper ; the participation o*
the ble.Ted facianient.

'

;

H. That which may Isecome the common
poffeffion of more than one
with lo,

Hwka.
3. That which may be recounted ; that
of which another may (hare the knowledge with to.
Nor let thine own inventions hope

CoKf MUNI Cj\'t ION.

ledge.
Buth together

Common boundary or inlet

2.

M-.'ua's Paradiji Ufi.

That which may be imparted.

per,

of the Lord's
one who participates of the

;

blefled facrament.
C:irmumcavls have ever ufed it ; and we, by the
form of the very utterance, do fliew we ufe it 35
Ihiier.

cctrmunicttntt,

A conflant fcequenter of worfliip, and a neverfailing morithW cctmnunjranf.

jirterhury's Sermons.

COMMU'NICATE. 1-. a. {ccmmunico,

-Te

Latin.]

To impart to others what is

1.

in

our

own power ; to give to others as partakers ; to confer a joint poffeffion ; to
beftow.

Common benefits are to be cmrnunUaied with
but prculiar benefits with choice.
Bacon.
WJiere God is worfliipped, there he ccmmutiicatcs bis bleflings and holy infiucDCes.
Taykr^t IVortty Ccpmuntcent.
Which of the Grecian chiefs conforts with thee ?
all,

But Diomcde defires my company.

MJihn on Italy.
13

Interchange of knowledge;

cation, either of benefit or knowledge,

was made.
Chjric- the Hardy would ccmmiiri.ate his fecrets
Tii/i none ; and, leaft of all, thofe fecrets which
trouble
Baan.

'<'-

'

.

He

ihofc thoughts only tvltb the
.

.

;

Colcpeper, and the chancel-

Not in a fingle perfon only, but in a community
Hcmi'.imVs Fundamcnials.
or multitude ot men.
This parable may be aptly enough cxpoundeJ of
L^EJlran^e,
the laws that fecurc a civil community.

munuaiim necelfary among all who hare the management of (iffairs.
Sioi/r.
4. Conference ; converfation.
Abner had communiiation with the elders of Ifcaf !,
faying, ye fought for David in times pall to be
king over you: now then do it. x 6Vmi<r/, iii. 17.
7 he chief end of lar^uag;, in f^ni'TunUatiar^

It is

Clartiidcrt.

A jonrncy of much adventure, which, to fliew

mind for the prefervation of thi commuitity.
j^Jdifcn's f'reeb'ifdtr.

He lives not for hi mfelf alone, but hath a regard
in all his ailions to the great connnuniry. yifttrbury,

the fi.-ength of his privacy, had been before nut

CimmunUouH ivith any other,
4. Now it has only 10 :
both tuitk and te.

H'oti.r.

Clarendon

ufes

him, that is tjught in the word, (omminicati SUM him that ttacheth.
Galai.ant, vi. 6.
His m,ijcfty frjnkl j promifed, th Jt he cuuld not,
in any drgrei:, cmmuniriiu 10 any ^eifun the nutter, btf're he had takes and nmmunualid /« tlwm
I-ct

''

..

ilions.

ClarirJia.

fpeale in publick are better heard
Ufcourfc by a lively genius and ready
jjirmory, than v/hcn they read all they would cmtheir hearers.
tnuntcuu
fVatu*
'

J,.:

..

^,.-1

Sit up and revel,

Of Rome about thee; and begin a fafliion
Bin "Jonjoti,
Of r'nedom and community.
The undillindtion of many in the community of
name, 01 mifapplicatiun of the aft of one unto
the other, bath made fome doubt thereof.
Broiun^s Vu 'gJr Krrourt,

This text is far from proving Adam fole pro-

Evtlyn'i Ka'cnJar.

prietor;

determine for the future to be lefs cimmurtUmive.

ing.

Norr'iS.

Commu'nion. n./. \_communio, Latin.]
I. Intercourfe ; fellowfhip
common pofparticipation of fomething in
common ; interchange of tranfadions.

noicth ; and in regard whereof .mgtrls iiLive notdifdaincd to prolefs themfcl\cs our jieUow-lervants.

We are not, by ourfelvea, fufljcient to furniih
fto.'Ci fjr fuch a life a

ourielves with compctnit

our nature doth dclircj tlirrcr'jic we are naturally
induced to fi:ek immuniiK And tellowfhip \^ith
•
jfcohn.
Tlic Ifraclites had never any amirunhti or aiiairs
Bjltigb.
with the £tbio|>ians.

others.

I

1.

.

Thon, fo pleas'd,

To partake of the blefled facrament.
The j>riiDitivcCktJIUliu/n»iii»n/(«/«f every day.

Canft vaife thy creature to what height thou wilt
Of union, ot unmunian, deified. Aiiit. Pa'. Lt/1.
We maintain cmmuniim with Cod himfclf, and
are made in the fame degree partaksts of the divine
i
I'iddcs.
nuture,

is a

confirmation of the original c-kLocke,

commonnefs. Not in uie.
He was but, as the cuckow is in June

3. KrequertS'/ ;

Heard, not regarded ; fcen, but with fuch eyes,
As, fick and blunted with cumwvnity,
A ft'ord no extraordinary gaze.
Staitffeare,

Commutabi'lity. n.f. \frorct commutal>lc.'\
The quality of being capable of
exchange.

Commu'table. adj. [from commiiU.'\
That may be exchanged for fomething
elfe ;

that

may be bought off, or raa-

fomed.

;

ConfiJer, finally, the angels, as having with us
that nmmunUti wlii.h th-- ap )fth to the: lltiijrews

it

»rwnfVy of all r.hings.

municative, of bellowing or imparting
benefits or knowledge.
He is not only^the moll communicative of all
beings, but he will alfo communicate himfclf in
fuch meafure as entirely to fatisfy ; othcrwife
fome degrees of ammunkatl'vejufi would be want-

the ftate contrary

Call all the great, the fair, and fpirited damej

mercenary {ardeners will thank us for j but they
deferve not the name of that ccrnnuricaih-e and

Commu'kicativeness. n./. [fromr^wmiiiiicaii've.1 The quality of being com-

;

to property or appropriation.

Inclined to in.ikc advantages
common; liberal of benefits or knowledge ; not clofe ; not felfilh.
V/e conceive them mote than fome envious and

'.:>

?o Com M u'n c A T E v. n,

Comnion poffeffion

2.

nicafe."]

feffion

not defigned for her own ufe, but for nie

Aldijon'i Guardian,
whole COT »:<f>i;r)'.
The love of our country is imprelTed on our

[from c':mmu.

ttcfj.

Stitlirgficrt.

Degrees in fcln^ols, arid brotherhood in cities,

;

lor.

we fhould

But by degree ftand in authentick place ?
Shakejfean's'troilus and Crrjpdam

Secrets may be carried fo far, as to (top the rflw-

Commij'nicative.

if it could,

mvnkn of that church.

telligence between fevcral perfons.

being to be underllooJ, wotda fervc not tor tlut
end, when any word does not excite in the heareis
the fame idea which it llanda for in the mind
of the fpeaker,
l.scke,

make a good man ;

Co.MMu'NiTy. n. f. \^commumtas , Latin.]
1. The commonwealth ; the body politick.
How could connnun]u:iy

good in-

Stvift ar.d Prf>e.

3. It ha^ anciently the prepofition tuith
before the perfon to whom communi-

lord Dr

fca

to impart knowledge.

;

learned diligently, and do c(>nmvnicaie wifdom
liberally : I do not hide I er riches, lyijd. vii. 1 3.
I

church can never

South,
have no iMd ones.
Ingenuous men have lived and died in the csk-

conveniently iituatcd for
trade, by the ccmmuKUalkn it haj both with Afia
j'lrbuiinct.
and Europe.

3.

a good

a way without interruption to another.

We have paid for our want of prudence, and

Dryiien^t Failct.

To reveal

church.
Rare communhn with

paiiage or

alone

noble profeffion.

And Hill iim:muriiaui his prailc with me.
2.

Raicigfs Uifiory of the H-'cr/J.

Union in the common worfhip of any

4,

means, by which from one place there is

The Euxine

[from communl-

at the celebration

Supper

;

dence has formed between the rivers and lakes of a
country at fo great a diftauce from the fca.

One who is prefent, as a worfliip-

cate.'\

Men began publickly to call on the naTie of riie
Lord; that is, they fcrvcd and ptaifcd God by
ccmmunkn, and in publick manner.

The map fliews the natuial commuh'tca:kn provi-

The happy place
Rather inflames thy torment, rcprefenting
Loft bltfs, to thee no more ummuniciihh.
Miltm^t PiiraJifc RfgaireJ.

Oommu'nicant. ». /.

Peachom or. Drawing,

km completely for the reception

and commvn'xauon of learned knowledge.
Holier I FJimcvAi cf S^^-eetl-:

'

A common or publick aft.

31

The aft of impartiiig benefits or know-

I'd none ccmmunkabit in earth or heav'n,

3.

Cbarerdor*

nicatc. ]
1.

:

Things not reveal'ii, which th' invifible king.
Only omnifcient, hath fupprcfi'd in night,

[from cotmnii-

n. f,

churches fiiuuld be altered.

Tertullian reporteth, that the plflure of Chrill
was engraven upon the commtiTii-m cup,

cansh, wliich all ccmntimcatc with one ancthet-,
mediately or immediately, j^rbuthra cri Alimnts.

:

Sith eternal life is ccmmum:able unto all, it bchoovcth that the word of God be fo likcwife.

They refolveJ, that the ftanding of the i;o«iffaeion table in all

from the other.
The whole body is nothing but a fyftcmof Aich

cate. '\

.

CoMMuTA'Tiot-'. »,/. [from ccminuie.'l
1, Change; alteration.
An innocent nature could hate nothing thatwaj
innocent : in a woyi, fo great i-i the C'lnmutafionj
'
that the foul then hated only that which now only
lives, i.

it

2.

Saurb'i Scrmr^ns,

e. fin.

Exchange ; the aft of giving one thing
for another.
The whole univcifc it fupported by giving and
returning, by commerce aod commutaiion,
S'.utb'i Scrmem,
According to the prefent temper of mankind, it
abfolutely nccclTary that there be fome method
and means cf c^mKuiaticin, a£ that of miney.

is

Kay on lie Crrati;n.

The ufe of money, in the commerce and tralfick
of mankind, is that of faving the cctntnutalivn of
C'lir.t,
^rbutkp't
mote bulky commodities.

m

Z z 2

3

4.

Ranfom r

.

\ Hanfom

the aft of exchanging a cor;
poral for a pecuniary puoifhrnent.

To join together ; to bring into a fyf- Co'm p a n a b l e adj. [ from campa^y.] So-

4.

I

ailj.

[from commute.']

Relative to exchange ; as, commutati'vt
tliat honefty which is exercifeil
in traffick, and svliich is contrary to
fraud in bargains.

Wc

Firm ;

I.

;

Thii will

exchange thcfi
plcafant and gainful onc&, which OodT aHtgns, Wn
thole oneaf} and I'ruitlefs ohes wu impolb onour.
2.

To buy off",
by another.

Without attraflion,

"2.

'I'hc hinatic, tlie lover,

not continue in the day of thy atiliflion.

ShaktCftart

Eccltti. vi. 10.

A wand'ring fire,

With anxioi/i doubts, with raging pafTioos torn.

O^mpdf? of unfluous vapour, which the night
And the cold environs around condenfcs,
Miller..
Kindled through agitation to aflame.

No fweet ctmfgnion near with whom to mourn.
Pritr.

To atone; to bar-

[con and mutual.
reciprocal. Uled only in poe

2.

I'eaihitm,

and well connedled ; as, a compaft dijcourfe.
Where a foreign tongue is elegant, cxpreflive,
clofe, and tomfaSi, we mull ftudy the utmoll force
Film.
of our language.

4. Brief,

3.

Sticking or ccmpafitilncfi, being natural to denrequires fome excels of gravity in proportion

Shakcfptarc^s lI.tmLt,

There, with ctmmmaal zea\, wc both h.>d llrovc
In aAs.of dear, henevolence and. love;
Brothers in peace, not rivaU in sommanti.

compared and hard ; which compatUdnHi and
hardncfs is a dcmonftration that uuciiing could be
Ciicjtu,
produced by them.

*

It

CO'MPACT. «. / [faSum, Latin.] A
contrad ; an accord ; an agreement ; a
mutual and fettled appointment between
two or more, to do or to forbear Ibmcthing.
It had anciently the accent on
the laft fyllable.
1 liope the king made peace with all of us
And the iom^'nit is firm and true in me.
Sbalithctire'i Wubard III.

In the beginnings of fpccv h there v.as an imfounded upon common confcnt, that
luch words, voices, or gefturcs, Ihould be figni
whereby they wnuld cxprcfs their thoughts. Soitch.

To Compa'ct. •v.a.

[compingo,. compac-

tum, Latin.]
To join together

nion.]

Clofely ; denfely.

With neat joining ; with good com[ from

Fit for good fellowfhip ; focial ;

He had a more CMpanicnablc wit, and fwayei
more among the good fellows.
Clarentioti,
nionable.]

[from compaIn a companionable manner.

Compa'niowship. n.f. \ixoTacompanion.'\
1. Company; train.

pafture.
n. f.

[from ctmpa-

Compa'nion ABLY. odv.

1

2.

.

adj.

agreeable.

Compa'ctly. ad'u. [from e»mpall.\

Co M p a'c r N E s s

Retkigb,

Compa'n tON ABLE.

ly

compa3.'\

Alcibiadcs, and fome twenty horfe.
Sbakijpiarc'i T-'msii.
All of compani'.njhip.

Firmnefs ; clofenefs ; denfity.
Irradiancy or fparklin;;, found in many gems,
is

plicit rmi^oi'?,

gives

away,

!

be prefent.

break it,

Pcpc', Odyfey.

a fellow.

fpread rumours to my defamation, where I cannot

to the denfity, or fame other outward violence, to

1^'gh' "" Buiks.
Thofc atoms are fuppofed infrangible, extreme-

;

What ? you poor,

Shaiefp. Henry IV,
boldncfs to .every petty companion to

you mouldy rogue, away

fity,

Love our hearts, and Hymen did our hand^*,

'.

bafc, rafcally, cheating, iack-linnen mate !

Firmnefs ; denfity.
•

A familiar term of contempt
I fcorn you, fcut^'y compatiion

Compa'ctedness.»._/; [from compared. ]

a,^j.

A partner; an alToclate.
Epaphroditus, my brother and enrpankn in labour, and fellow foldier.
Phi/, ii. ij.
Bercav'd of ha|'pinefs, thou may 'ft partake
His punilhment, eternal mifcry;
Which would be all his folacc and revenge.
Thee once to gain companion of his woe. Milton^

In one hand I'an has a pipe of fcven reeds, r»mftii3 with wax together.

I'nite iomnuiual in moll facred bands.

not difcovcrable in this, for it Cometh (hort of

2.

Jircvin.
their cimpaHmj' ^ud durity.
The beft lime mortar will not have attained its

Fellowfliip ; affociation.
If it lie honour in your wars to fcem
The fame you arc not^ which, for your beft ex3d^>-

You call your policy ; how is 't Icfs, or worfc.
That it ihall I'lold companiiKfi.-ip in peace
With honour as in war ? ^bakijptaiet Coriolanus.

utmoft ciMfa^riiiJs, till fourfcorc years after it has
been employed in building. This is one rcafon
why, in dcmolilhing ancient fabrics, it is cafier to
B'y/e.
break the ftone than the mortar.
The reil, by re.ifoii o( the arfnilntji of terrcftrial matter, cannot make its way to wells.

CO'MPAN Y. n. /. [cowpngnie. French,;
either from con and pagus, one of the
fame town or con and pants, one that
eats of the fame mefs.]
Perfons aflembled together ; a body oi
;

with

firmnefs ;

to

pnite clofely ; to confolidate.
inform her full of my particuhu fears
And thereto add fuch realons of your own,
As may ccmpad it more. Shakrjfture' i King Lrar,
:

Nor arc the nerves of his t'.mjmii.J Itrcugth
Stretch'd and diirolv'd inio uufwiew'd length.
Dtnbtim,

By what degrees this cartji's confaflcd fphcre
W.IS harden'd, woods, and rucks, and towns, to

R ffiommon,

bear.

Com p a'ctu R E. B./ [from fo/w^rti-'Z. ] Strucin wiiich any thing
together ; compagination.
good word, but not in ule.

manner

ture ;

joined

is

[Latin.]

Now the bright fun ampaffi the precious ftune,
Imparting radiant luftre like his ovta.
BUcknsorci CrtaU

Co M ? A G N a't ion ft./, [cimpago, Latin.]

Thou pernicious woman,
Com^i>0 with her Chat's gone, ihink'll tlioo thy
oaths,

Though t icy would fwear down each particular fa^.
Were tettimunlo ? Sbakiff.Mi ajurtfur Idujurt,

Hbakefpeare*

Afyflcmof

ccKpagcs of pipes and vclTcIs, for the fluidj ro pafs

To league with.

^bakej'pcjie'i Henry IV.
Honeft company, I thank you all.
That luve beheld me give away myf-df
To this moft patient, fwcct, aiid virtuous wife.

Fairy H^em,

COMPA'GES.a.f.

^yhuth, on fJiet.

If he, comjijft of j.rrs, grow mutical.

Go, carry Sir John Falftaff to the Fleet

Take all his company along with him.

Neither unfeemly Ihort, nor yet exceeding long.

fo as pc'iple arc jdvtinccd in age.

We (hail hive (hortly difcord in the fphetes. Shat.

men..

And over it a fair iiortcullis hong.
Which to the gate dircrtly did incline.
With comely comj>afs, and compiitiure ilron^.

many parts united.

To m'ake out of fomething.

1

A

Thi> difeaCe it more dangerous, at the folids are
more (UiS and comfnHiJ and confequcntly more
,

3.

Sbakejpeart't Macbeth*

Some friend is a ccmpanim at the tabie, and wiU

and the poet.

Are of imagination all car.faS.

try.

2.

Bitf.Uy.

Cbmpol'cd ; confilling.

u if for- .3. Joined; held together.

Thofc inflitutions which G^d dcfigncd f jr mcun.s
men in holincG, they look upon as a
f rivUegc to fervii inllcad of it, and to commute for
it.
ii.u:b's Senncm.

1

nf'

the chaos could never convene into luch great rw>;-

to further

Mutual ;

diflcvcred particle-*

ptifi mafl'es as ttic plan«a.

gain for exemption.

Commu'tuai..

tlic

.

of reL-ixation. It differs from />"/W» »sacquaintance from cuiifidence.
How now, my lord ? vsliy do you keep atone ?
Of foti'ieil fancies your c(,mpani'>ri make ?

Nni'ion'i Ofikks.

i'.mfaB bodies ?

bearance of the unc were a ditpcnfaiian (st thr
other.
L^EJirangf.

To Commu'te. "v. n.

I

void of air and other grorter bodies, than within
pore> of water, glat:i) cr^ttal, gems, and other

DitayifPiiy
or ranfom one obligation

Some ctmmatt fwcaring for wboiingi

Co M p a'n o N «./. [cot/ipagnoti, French.
1. One with whom a man frequently converlea, Or with whom he fhares his hours

tile

crrrmutt o'lf talks ;

Idves.

dole; denfe ; of firm

Is not the denfity greater in free and twen fpaces,

to put one thing in the

place of another ; to give or receive one
thing fiir ;;nother.

folid ;

texture.

7a COMMUTE. T'. a. [ccmmato, Latin.]

To exchange

intercourfe.
Towards his queen he was nothing uxorious, but
Bacon's Henry VII.
comptiriahle and refpeftive.

Compa'ct. a/(/. [cotnpaQus, Latin.]

juft'ict,

1.

cial ;

fee the world fo cfsmfaHiJ, thateach thing
lUoier.
prefcrveth other things, and alfo itfclf.

Brvwn^

.

having the qualities of a companion ; fociable ; maintaining friendly

tem.

The law of GuU liad allowed 3n evalioDi that t^,
by way of ;9ntMutatiim or redemption.

Commu'tative.

COM

COM

C O M

The organs in animal bodies are only a regular

pleafure.
A crowd

Ray.

thriugh.
I

aflembled for the entertainment of each other ; an affembly of
Perfons

2,

is

not company ; and faces are but a

gallery of piflurcs, where there is no love.

,

Bacon's EJ/liys,

Union; llrufture; jundion; connexion;

for con3, Perfons confidered as afTcmbled
verfation ; or as capable of convcrfation
and mutual entertainment.
Monficur Zulichem came to me among the reft
Tcp^U*
of the good company of the town.
Knowledge of men and manners, the freedom of

contexture.

The intirc or broken omfaghaiinr. of the magnetic;\l

fabrick under it. Bro-:un's Vulgar Emun.

Co'mpan ablen ESS. n./. [from company.]
The quality of being a good companion

A

fociablcnefs.
word not now in uli;.
His eyes full of merry Cjiplicity, his words of
hearty iumpaneblmeftt

Sidney.

habitudes, and conveffation with the beft company
'

of both fcxes, is neccflary.

9

Dryden,

4.

The

COM

COM

The Hate of a companion ; the aft of
accompanying ; converfation j fellow-

T.

There could no form
Citnpcirably

ti""'

ihip.
it is

A number of fome particular rank or
proi'effion,

incorporated the fcveral trades ot' Rome into fompdiiia, with their p»titular privileges.

;

fo

many as are under one captain.
Every captain brought with him thrice fo many
in his cirrpany as waj esprded.
Knolla'i Hi/larf <>/ the Tnrli,

^""' Company. J

' I To keep CoMPANV. 3

ny ; to aflbci-

do delirc thee

Aomc.

tively or fimply.

rativcly with other things of its kind, or with
the
evil mingled in its copipofition ;
fobcisagood

To

mnn that is better than mer. commonly a^e, or in

Who kt,fi hex

Temple,
_,
The vegetables being ntnpVMively lightur th.in
the ordinary terreftriil matter of the gl.be, fubfided Uft.
it^ood-.uard.

Shatc^eart', Utbcllo.

keep

Com PAN v.

To

frequent

houfes of entertainment.

Sometimes in an ill fenfe.
To Co'm p a n V
n, [from the noun.] To
accompany; to attend; to be companion
-:.•.

to ; to be alTuciateti with.
i

of this wife application

TaCOMPA'RE. f.
[cornpar!), Latin'.]
I. To make one thing the meafure of
anrz.

Thus, through what patli I'oc'erof life we rove,
Rage cimfatia our hate, and grief our love. Prkr,
t.

1/.

I will

».

I will

To aflbciate one's felf with.
I M(rotc to

1

Cor, V. 9.

tr^ick poet.

This prcfenc world affordeth not any thing cowffrabU unto the publick duties of religion. Uookir.

cannot chiife but know they are equal. Lech.
Thus much of the wrong judgment men make
of prcfent and future pleafurc and pain, when thev

that ajc, an excellent fol.Iier loth by lea anif land.

Add'ijon'i Sjeftator.

COMPARABty. aii-v. [ from comparahle. ]
Jn a manner or degree worthy
compared.

to

be

remote ; and
prelent

as future.
'.,

/,„?,
It may be obferveJ, that when the com-

parifon intends only fimilitude or iljuftration by likenefs, wc iifc to before the
thing brought for illolbation ; as, he
compart ti anger to a fire.

fo it is with

pkafuec and pain ; the

apt to cany it, and tbofc at a diftance
have the difadvantage in the ccmparifin.
Loeke.

3.

is

A comparative ellimate
It

;

proportion.

men would live as religii.n rrouires, the world

vv.iuld

tie

a mod lovely and defirablc place, in jem-

pariftn of what now it is.

TiUvJioK.
One can fcarcc imagine. how fo plentiful a foil
(hould becOTne fo miferably unpeopled, in compa-

r'lj'.r,

of whrrtitoncewas. Addij. Remarks oh Italy.

A fimile in writing or fpeakipg

4.

;

an il-

luftration by fimilitude.
As fair and as good u kind of hand in hjnd cokparijon, hid been ibmethiug too lair and too good
for any ladj.
kbake/poire.
[Ill grammar.]

5.

The formation ofanad-

jeftive through its various degrees of fig-

are compared together, and fo the abfent confidrred

KnrMii's ll,pry -Jihirurhs.

There is nobleffing of life amf arable to the enjoyment of a difcreet jnd vittuoui friend.

Loekt.

Oojcfls near our view qre apt, ti» be though:
greater than thofe of a larger fize that are mof*

fix,

A min ctimfarabtt with any of the captains of

The ftate of being compared.
If v« will rightly eltimatc what \vc call good
and iLv'ii, we fliall fiud it lies muoli In comfarijrn.

2 Ccr. X. .3.

viflory of overcoming evil with' good
and then
;
comparer thefe with the relH.-fs torment,' an I
perpetual tumults, of a malicious and revengeful
(P'^tTUktf,^.
.
^
He that his got the ideas of number!, and h.ith
taken the p lins to compare one, twn, and three, to

[from To comptirc]
"Vt orthy to be compared
of equal re;
gard ; worthy to contend for preference.

Dryden.
_

2.

the pkafureand fweutncls of lojve, and ;hc glorious

Sflnfcr'l Huhirrd's Tale.

tra-

gedy ; for he fays, that herein .he is to imitate the

No man can thiuk it grievous, who confidtt-

Comparable, nrfj.

,

Grcui^t Ddujttum.

Our author foves jne the cmparijin with

hear CalTius, and cutipi^r,- their rcafons.

«'<•

Obfokte.

To face, to forge, to fccff, to ccmfary.

.

to dri\i on the compaiijon too far to make it good,

hear Brutus fpeak..—
Shaki}peare.

For there ti'.oa i.eed: mull learn to laugh, to lye.

,

.

They meafuring thcmfelves by theip&lvc,', an/i
comparing thcmfclvc* among thcmfclves, are n<\

you not to amfany with fornicators.

To be a gay companion.

2.

Natalis Comes, comparing his parts with thnfu
ot a man, reckons his cl.iws amon^' them, which
are much mure like tlmle of a lien ; fo Ciify it is

orbadnefs, or othej- qualities, of any one
thing, by obferving how it differs 'irom
fomcthing elfe.

Shahfftart's Cymiiiim.

.

Compa'risok.w./ [i(;/K/i7?vr//i«, French.]
1. The aft of comparing.

other ; to eftimate the relative goodncfs

am

The foldier that did cimfanj thcfc thuee.

To Co'm p a n y

'Irue fwaijis in love (h.ill, in tjif world to come,
Approve their truths by Troilus ; when their
rhymes.
Full of proted, and oatli, and big compare.
Want fimilies.
i>hakffp. Troilus and Crcjfida.

Rfen,

!

Mi/ion's Paradife Lofi,

Simile; fimilitude 5 iiluftratian by comparifon.

But how few, comparatrvrly, arc the inilancct

11.

.

Mod glorious.
2.

whom the good qualities are more than the had.

Pope'i EJay >,n Man.

(CmpMy f

There I the rarcll things havefeen,

Oh, things without compare !
SucUing.
As their fmall galleys may not hold compare
With our tall ihjps.
H'aller.
Beyond compare the Son of God was fcen

£^,,.„.

In this world, whatever is called good, is c.mpa-

Dryden.

?

of entering into comparifon.

cftccmcd good or evil amparaiively, and not pofi-

Admitted to that equal flcy,
Hi» faithful dog /hall h<ar him comfjny.

Why fliould be call her whore

;

The good or evil, which is removed, may be
.'\t,iiiff.

to procure ;

rative eftimate ; comparilbn ; poifibility

[In grammar.] The comparative degree expreffes more of any quantity in
one thing than in anotlier; as, the right

In a ftate of comparifon ; according to eftimate made by comparifon ; not pofitively.

Addihii's SpcBaf.r.

To compare is in Spejtfer ufed after the
to obtain.
But, both from back and belly, ftill did fpare
To fill his bags, and riches to compare. Fairy i^

in a

ti've.y

Thoft Indian wives are loving tools, and may
do well to iaf comfany with the Arrias and Portia's

10.

Compa're. n. /. [from the v«rb.]
1. The ftate of being compared
compa-

he compares this tranflation ivith the original,

Latin comparo, for to get ;

hand iJ the ftrouger.

To accompa-

To hear me ccmfany, and go with me.
ot" old

Having the power of comparing different things.
Beauty is not known by »n eye or nofc; it con-

It

almoll word for word.

CcTmpa'ratively. etJv, [from eompara-

ate with ; to be companion to.
1

As nature could not OTi>i> his an compare. Drydcr..
he will find that the three firft ftanzas arc rendeieil

fymmetry, and it Is the comparaiive faculty which notes it. Ghniiillc! Scepfts Scknifca.
3.

Mihin's Far. Reg,

He carv'd in ivory fuch a maid fo fair,

chat is, fgrantcd

4.

fifts

Abuthnot on Coins,
2. A fubdivifion of a regiment of foot

To compare

that it is either lawful or binding; vet whether
other things be no: to be preferred before the extirpation of herefics.
Bacjn,
The bloflbm is a politive good j although the
remove of it, to give place to the fruit, be a omparathve good.
Bacon.
This bubble, by realbn of its comparative levity
to tlie fluid thatinclofcs it, would nccelfarily afcend
to the top.
Bent/iy,

2.

tion.
This emperor feems to have been the firft who

When two perfons or things are comparedj to dilcovcr their relative propor-

Small things laieh grcatell,

The under hangman of his realm. SL.ik. Cymbe/ine.

DcnnU.
6. Perfons united in a joint trade or partnerfhip.

ii-Jt

Bticen's ylpophlbcgm-,

Will fccm as pure as fnow, being co>npar''d
fViih my confinelefs harms.
Shukcjp, Macbeth.

O^mparatl've for your virtues, to be ftilcd

ninpamti ot pla>crs in the town together.

for th^t the lea

quiet, if the vvinds did

the thing ufed as a meafure.
Black Macbeth

Thou wert dignified cnoiii.'h,

There refteth the ccmparailvr,

and

tion of any quality, luith is ufed before

not pofuive

Ev'n to the point of envy, if 'twe;e iti.ide

execution or performance of any thing ;
a band.
Shakelpeare was an aflor, when there were feven

Q. \

3.

not abfolute.

Guardian,

united by Jome charter ; a
body corporate ; a fiibordinate corpora-

;

cnlit)

trouble it.

.

,

EAimated by comparifoii

1

A number of perfons united for the

7.

in

Compa'rative. at!j. [compnrativiis Lat. ]

Drydcn's FnHes.
Abdallah grew by degrees fo enamoured ot" her
convcrfition, that he did not think he lived when
he was not in cumpany with hia belond Ballora.
5.

would be

logick, the two things compared to one
another.

that can fpeak fuch rords, than by fuch words to
be pcrfuaded to follow folitarincfs.
Sidny.

Nor will 1 wretched thee
In death fortikc, htit keep thee amftvy.

tors and counfellors to the winds ;

1

Compa'rates. n./. [from comfare.'\

more pleafanc to enjoy the cnrpany of him

Solon compared the people unto ;he fea, and ora-

for fuch a royai ufe'be
imagined, ^ike that of the furcf.ii naH'orton's AixkutHure.

nification ; ^i,Jlrong,J{ronga-,J}rougeJf,

COMPA'RT. <y. a. {(otnfartir, J<r.

To

from con and pnnior, Lat.] 'Vo divide ;
to mark out a general defign into its
va-

rious parts and fubdivifions.
I

make haftc to the calling and comparting of

the whole work.

IVutiin's Ar.l'it.elure,

Compa'rti-

COM
CpMrA*RTiMl!NT.
French.]

Vhe circumfeience is diviJcJ 'nto twelve cemp3T!h:a>tt, each containing a cpmplete pifture.

Ptft.

Couparti'tion. «./ [ttovncpmparS.'\
1. The afl of comparting or dividing.
will

come

whicn the
aulhors of this aj t underftand a graceful and ufelo the c;mf>iirri'ion, by

iul diftribut'on of the wliolc gtoundplot, both for
ri>om» of oliice and entertainment.
H-'cltm.

2

Ii cv'ry work regard the writer's en!,
Since none can canfufi more than they intend.
Pcjv.

». /
[comfar/hiteirh
A divifion of a pifture, or de-

fign.

I

ff^atons jitMtcfturc.

/

(7.
[comparliment,
Divifion^ ieparate part of a

Prench.]
ileCgn,

Ihe i()nare will make you ready for all manner
vi comfarimtnti, bafes, pedcftals, and buildings.

To COM'PASS. -v.a. [compajfer, Fr. comJiaffiire, Ital. pajphus meiiri, Latin.]

No Itfs than the compafs of twelve bwks is
taken up in thcfc. Pope's Effay on Homer's JSafths,
The £nglilh arc good confederates in an ent:r-

Adarkfomc way.
That deep defcended through the hollow ground,

prlzu which

may be difpatchcd

thee compafi'd with thy kingdom's peers.

within the compafs of one year, and towards the
Attirliury.
end of a long, exj-enfive war.

That fpeak my i'a;utation in their minds.
Sbakeffcart's Macbitb.

Now all the bleflings

Enclofure; circumference.
And their mount Palatine,

4.

Of a glad father f;m/Wl thee a/'0«r.' Sbak.TempiJl.
The fliady trees cover him with their (hadow :
the willows of the brook cemfaji him ehout.

;

Thus wert thou cot7:f,-JJidvi\ih circling fire. Dry J.
To walk round any thing.
Old Chorineus ampafi'd thrice the crew,

AlM dipp'd an olive-branch in holy dew,
Which thrice he fpjinkied round. Drydcn's JEn.

to

to procure ; to attain

;

to

HMtrd'i Talf.
If mt, to ccmpafi her I'll ufe my /kill.
Shakejf.
How can you hope to ccjTipaJi your dciigns,

Daihami Sophy.

Nothing is

ing his army before it.
Clarcif/ldn.
The church of Rome createth titular patriarchs
of Conftantinopie and Alexandria ; fo loth is ihc
pope to lufi: the remembrance of any title that he
hath once canfafjiJ.
BreriWyx!.
Invention is the firft part, and abfjlutely necelTary to them both ; ye: no rule ever was, or ever
tan be given, how to Ci,mfiiji it.
Drydtn'i Dufrtf,
The knowledge oi what is good and what is
evil, what ought and what ojght not to be done,
thing too large to be compeJ/iJ, and too hard to
be maftered, without bruin;> and ftudy, parts and

7.

likelier to

To pity

Stuti.

;

to compaffionate ; to comml-

A

O

!

CoMPA SSIONATE. adj. [^bottt compaJJion.'\
Inclined to compaffion ; inclined to
pity ; merciful ; tender; melting ; foft;
eafily afFefled with forrow by the mifery

of others.
There never was any heart truly great and generous, that was not alfo ttnder and compaffionate,
Soutb's Sermons*

To Compa'ssionate.
noun,]

To pity

;

<y.

a,

[from the

to commiferate.

Experience layeth princes torn cftates before their

You would found me from my loweft note to

eyes, and withal perl'uades

St-ak.fpeare's hamkr*

themfelves.

From harmony, from heavenly harmony,

CcmpaJ/icKaies

This univcrfal frame began
From harmony to harmony

them to compaffioKats
RMcigb,

•

my pains, and pities me

!

What is compafTion, when 'tis void of love ?
AdJifon's Cats,

Through all tlic cvptifs of the notes it ran.
Drydcn.
The diapafon clofing full in man.
S. [This is rarely ui'ed in the fingular.]
The inllrument with whiqh circles are

CoMPA'S510NATELT.fl//T;. [frOm COIKpafMercifully ; tenderly.
The fines were alfigned to the rc'jullding St.

Jienate.]

Paul's, and thought therefore 10 be the

drawn.

more fc-

verely impofed, and the lefs ctimp.jj/i9natcly reduced

If they be two, they are tw.i fo

.

infirmitlci",

ferate.
word fcarcely ufed,
heavens
can you hear a good man groan,
And not relent, or not c'j>':piiffiii: l.im ?
Sbakefprare's Titus Andr^nicut,

Ddvics OK Ireland,
keep a man within com.-

the top of my ctmpafs*

thofe misfurtu.ie3 or

Addijon's Spectator,

an

The power of the.Vdice to cxprefs the

tor

To Compa'ssion. <v. a. [from the noun.]

notes ol mufick.

'

Dryden's Faths,

The ^ood-natiired man is apt to be moved with

pafi, than the having conftantly before his eyes the
(late of his afiairs, in a regular -courfs of acccHmt.

himfclf maftcr of

brothers hold, and vengeance thefe exaS ;

This pleads compajfan, and repents the fa£t.

Certain it is, that in two hundred years before
(1 fpeak within ccmpah^ no fuch commiHion had
been executed in cither of tlicfe provinces.

Weymouth, if he could compafs it without engag-

'

My

\

:

If I can check my erring love, I will;

eotta>Flatioii«

Ueirens, t. 34,
Their angry hands

mits.

1

'

;

indired advance ; as, to fetch a compafs
round the camp.
6. Moderate fpace ; moderation ; due li-

His ma.ler being one of great regard,
1
court to cir.fafi any fuit not hard.

Pity; com-

Ye had compafjion of me in my bonds.
*

Dryden's Virv'd,

Hooktr^i preface.

And not dilTemble them ?
He had a mind to make

from fi7« and /a/;V,Lat.]

mlferation ; ibrrow for the fufterings of
others ; painful fympathy.

.

A departure from the right line

5.

a

COMP A'SSrON. n.f \compaffion, French,

1

/.«Jf'.

"hare in the power.
That which by wiidom he faw to be requifite for
thit people, was by as great wifdom c-.mpajUd.

Its ofiice is to cift

which another would turn into ridicule.

;

;

ealily follow the bioad edge.

round ; and therefore the edge muft be made broad,
and the back thin, that the back may have a wide
kerf to turn in,
Aioxm,

1

Which now on feven high hills triumphant reigns;
And in that comfafs all the world contains.

fcize.
;

made (j broad, and the back fo thin, that it may

comp,!jJ;:n

I^kt, xix. 43.

To obtai\i

The {cmpafs-faw (hould not have its teeth f;t,
as other (uw j have ; but the edge of it (hould be

The ftrufture.

to block.
Thineenemies (hill caft a trench about thee, and
comfiifi thee round, and keep thee in on every fide.

5.

C0MPAS5-SAW. a. f.

Th' imperial palace, cojy.pafs hti^e, and fiigh

Drycieni Virgil.

To dare that death, I will approach yet nigher

4. To grafp ; to inclofe in the arms

Locke,

In old language there was a phrafe,
to come in compafs, to be brought round.

to.

MJt'.n' s Parjdife Regained.
Old Rome from fuch a race derivM her birth.

Job, x1. II,
Obferve the crowds that comf^fs him arouril.

To beleaguer ; to befiege

did more for tlie fupptying and increafe of ufel'ul
c:>mmodities, than thole who built workhoufes.

in a ihort CLmiafs

Addifin's Frielr.U,r,
You have heard what hath been here done for
the poor by the five bofpirals and the workhoufe,

Fairy Sluar.

3.

Rowe's jane Shore,

He that firft difcovered the ufe of the cmfnfs,

of time.

And was with dread and horrour cumfeffid arnunJ.

2.

Dryd.n.

With eoual force the tempeft blows by turns
From ev'ry corner of tlie fcaman's compafs.

Extent; reach; grafp.
O Juliet, I already know thy grief;
It ftrains me pad lUe cCftnfafs of my wits. Stahff.

fpace.

about, added.

1 fee

And k new no north but when ^c pole-ftar /hone.

This author hath tried the force and anpaf: of
our language with much fucccft.
6^uift.
3. Space ; room ; limits, cither of time or

To encircle ; to environ ; to furround ;
to inclofe : it has fometimes around, or

J .

:

Coafting they kept the land within their ken.

Addifon"! SpetltJtet.

Peacbem en Drutvtng,

f^"^ CbarUi,

Rude as their flitps was navigation then^

No ulrful compafs or m'^ridian krtown

Sbaiifp* "yuliui Cafar.

That which is out of the compafs of any rnanS
power, is to that man impolTible. South^t Sfrni>ni.
How few there are may be juftly bewailed, the
compafs of them extending but from the time of
Hippocrates to that of Marcus Antoninus. Ttmph.
Animals in their gen«ration are wif^r than the
fons of men ; but their wifdom is confined to a
few particulars, and lies in a very narrow compuft.

Their temples and amphitheatres needed no comptn'itiimi.

compafs
courfe.

And where I did begin, there (hall i end :
z.

the tils; profit is
men fteer theJt

fills

by whi>.h fa£liou^

the

»

My life is run its c^pipafi,

The inflrument compofcd of a needle
and card, whereby mariners fteer.

The breath oT religion

[In law.] To take mcafurcs preparacompafs /be
tory to any thing ; -ai,
death of the king.
Co'mpass. n.f. [from the verb.]
I. Circle ; round.
This day I breathed firft ; time ii come ro»nd ;

feparate part.

Compa'rtmekt.

9.

6.

The parts marked out, or feparated ; a

.

C O M

CO M

As ftiff twin compaffes ixe two s
Thy foul, the fixt foot, makes no (how
To move ; tut djth, if th' other dn.

and cxcufed.

ClarendoH,

Compate'rkity. n.f, [ecu andpateraitas, Latin.]

D.'.r.i.

Goftipred, or compatirnity, by the canon law, ij

In his hand

a fpiritual alKnity ; and a juror that was go.lip to

He took the e°'<'<=° compajfis, piepa.'d

cither of the parties m'ght, in former times, have

In Cod's eternal (lore, to circiimlcribe
This unlvtifc, and all ctcattd things.
Ml/Ion's Paradiff Lcji.

be^n challenged as nut indid'crent by our law.
Davits's State of Ireland,

To fix one fjot of their CM-.pofs wherever they

CoMPATlBl'LITy.»./[ from compatible. ]

and extend the O'her to fuch tcrribi:
lengths, without defcriblng any c!rcu:Tiference at

think

fit,

ad, is to l;avc us a.'id thcir.f;lv'.j in a very uncrtain
ftate.

it?//>.

Confiftency ; the power of co-exifting
elle ; agreement with
any thing.

with fomething
i

7

COMPA-

COM

COM

CoMPE'LiAELE.cr/?. [ from rt«/f/. ] That

Compe'nsative. adj. [from eompettjate.'j

Com
COMPA'TIBLE. aJj. [corrupted, by an
unfkilful compliance with pronunciation,

may be forced.

from competible, from competo, Latin, to
fidtt to agree. Competible is found in good
writers, and ou^at always to be ufed. ]

ccmpellible,

that

countervails.

which

.

Compella'tion. ». /. [from ccmpello, To Com pe'nse. v. a. [compenjo, Latin.]
To compenfate to countervail to beLatin.] The ftyle of addrefs ; the word
;

;

Suitable to; lit for; confjitent with;
not incongruous tOi

of falutation.
The ftile bed fitted for all perfons, on all occa-

equivalent to;
recompenfe.

The objedl o( the will is fuch a good as is camfaliiU to on inKlle^ud nature.

fions, tj ufe, is the arrpcthtUn of Father, which
our Saviour firft taught. Duppas Ruks of De'vctkn.
The peculiar c^mj^elljt'wn of the kings in France,
is hyjln, which is nothing clfj bat father. Terrfle.

It fcemeth, the weight of the quickfilver doth
not ccmpenfe the weight of a ftone, more than th«
weight of the aqua-fortis. Pnrm'i Natural lift 11y.
The joys of the two marriages were ccmjienjed
with the mournings and funerals of prince Arthur.
Bacon's Henry VJI.

1.

Htih's Origin cf Mar.k'o:d.

ConfWent; agreeable.

2.

Compe'ller. n. f. [from ccmpel-l Hethat

Our poets have joined together foch qualities as
are by nature the moft c-.mfatsilc ^

valour with
anger, mcekocrs with piety, and prudence with
diliimuljtion.
Pr:cm^.

forces another.

CO'MPEND. «. / [compendium, Latin.]
Abridgment

Compa'tibleness. ;;. / [from compatiConfiftency ; agreement with any

hU.'\

;

t

.

Lat.]
Short; contraded ; furaraary
abridged.
Co M p e N D o's I T Y. n./. [from canpendious.l
Shortnefs ; contradted brevity.
Diil.

[from fo«.x^d patter,

;

Di3.

Latin.] Suffering togethtr.'

Compa'triot. B.y" [frSm ccnandpafria,
Lat.] One of the fame country.
Did.

I

The governor Icnew he v/as fo circumfpe^ as
not to adhere to any of the faftjons of the time,
in a neutrality indifferently and friendly entertaining all his canpatrkit,
DrummcnJ,

Compe'n Dious. adj. [from compendium.'\
Short ; fummary ; abridged ; comprehenfive ; holding much in a narrow
fpace ; direft ; near ; by which time is
faved, and circuition cut off.
They learned more lompendious and expeditious

Compe'er. n.f. [compar, Latin.] Bqual;
companion ; colleague ;

aflbciate.
Scl'oftris,

That monarchs harnefs'd, to his chariot yok'd
Bafe fervitude, and his dethron'd ampcin
Lalh'd furioufly.

To Compe'er.

\yays,

c

dious.'] Shortly ; in a (hort method ;

In my right.

f. [from comdilatorinefs.

cient, without iuperfluity.
Something of fpccrh is to be indulged to common civil. ty, more to intimacies, and a competency
to thofc recreative difcourfes which maintain the
chcarfglncfs of fociety.
Gov. of Tongue.
2. Such a fortune as, without exuberance,

equal to the neceffities of life..
Tor compeltnci of life I will allow you.
That lack of means enforce you not to evil.
Shakefpeare's Henry IV,
It is no mean happincfs to' be feated in thi
mean : fuperfluity comes fooner by white hairs, but:
competency lives longer.
Shak. Mercb. of yinice.
A difcrect learned clergyman, with a competency
fit for one of his education, may bean entertaining,
an ufetui, and fometimes a neceffary companion.
is

fum-

Sisift.

Reafon's whole pleafure, all the joys of fenfe.
Lie in three words, health, peacc,.and cwipeiev.:e.

drawn into few and Ihort

articles.

Huoker.

The ftate or condition of matter, before the world
was a- making, hcomfendhujly exprelfcd by the word

Pope.

To force to fome aft; to oblige; to Compe'ndiousnf.ss. n.f. [from compen-

[In law.] The power or capacity of
a judge or court, for taking cognifanco
of an affair.

Shortnefs; brevity; compreheu-

CO'MPETENT. adj. [cemperens, Latin.]

Skakt/peare's

Khg Lear.

To COMPE'L. V. a. [compe/lo, Latin.]

chaos.

dious. '\

fiftibly.

fion ill a narrow compafs.
The inviting eafincfs and compendicufneft of this
afiertion, Ihould dazzle the eyes. Beriley^s Sermons,

You will entpil me then to read the will ?
iihakffpcare'i yuliui Cafitr.

ger.

ment ; fummary ; breviate

abbreviature ; that which holds much in a narrow room ; the near way.
After we arc gruwn well acquainted with a fhcrt

And lack of other means, in defp'rate manner
Daring ch' event to the teeth, ate ail in uproar.
Sictrjfetre.
:

but his

Servants, toge^er with the wom.in, timftilid him.
Sjtmuti, xxvii. 23.
But firft the lawlefs tyrant, who de nic;

To know their God, or mciia^^, :o .g^rd.
Mull be compelled by lign* and judgrr.cn:L dirr.

Com pe'n SABLE, adj. [from compenjhte.]

Mdlm.

to counterbalance ;

to counter-

vail ; to make amends for.
1 he length of the nij^ht, and the dews thereof,
do cojrpei:faje ti»e heat
the day. Ban^n's Nat. ////?.
The picafures of lite do not ccmperjati: the mife-

from ; to feize. This fignification is uncommon and harfh.
The fubjefls grief
Comes through eommillions, which umptl from

-

ries.

Davics on Ireland,
To draw men from great excefs, it is not amifs,
though we ufe them unto fomcwhat Icfs than U
competent.

3.

Hooker.

Reafonable ; moderate.

A competent number of th; old Being ffrft read,
the rew Ihould foccccd.

Hviktr,

The clergy have giined fome infight into men
and

things,

and

a competenr

The fixth part of his fubdance, to be lc\ieJ

Qualified ? fit: a competent ]viAgt, is one
wlio has a right of jurifdiftion in the
cafe.
Let us firft confijcr how competent wc are fr the
office.

;.

Go^'ernmcnt of ike Torque.

Confiffent with ; incident to.

That is the privilejie of the Infinite Author of

Th': proper organs, proper pow'r.s, alfign'd ;
Eaclj feeming want ecmpenjjted of courfe.
Here with degrees of fwiftnefs, there of force. Pofe.

Without delay.
ihak'Jbtari , Henry VIII.
3. To gather together, and unite in a com-

knowledge of the

Atterbt4rfs Sermons.

.

4.

Prhr.

Nature to thefe, without profufion kind,

things,

who never (lumbers nor deeps, but i» not

compeiinl to any finite being.

Lo,ii:

Com PENS a't ION. n./. [from compen/nte.] Co'mpetently. adv. [(torn cmpelait.}.

>:.

M

H;
tl.c town itrurn'J,
Attended by the chic's who fought the field
mix'd,
Now friend'y
and in one troop cwnpeil'd.
Drjden.
feize ; to overpower.
4.
Our men fecure nor juaids norcentrles held,
Bu; eif) Ccc p iheii weary liuibs cmptlfd, prydeti.
I

'»"'*•

M

each

,

The grcatcft captain of the Englifli Brought rather a guard, than a competent army, to recortrr Ire-

**''"'"'•

lent to ;

to ravifh

A Latiniim compelUre grtgf

and the body apt and proportionate. Bac. Nat. Hi/!.
Adapted to any purpofe without defcit

or fuperfluity.

That which may be recompcnftd.
To COMPE'NSATE. -v. a. [compenfi, Latin.]
To recompenfe ; to be equiva-

All thefe bicffings could but enable, not cmftl,
us to be Happy.
CiirerJm.
Whole droves of minds are by the driving god
Comftli dxa drink the deep Lethean floodr Dryiten.

pany.

2.

;

h^'jits en the M^i^U

je4t.

i

;

If there be any power in imigination, the diftancc muit be competent, the medium not adverfe,

fyftem or ccmfendium of a friencc, which is written
in the plalileil and moi> fimpic manner, it is then
proper to read a larger regular treatife on that fub-

I

To take by force or violence

Suitable; fit; adequate ; proportionate.

1.

COMPENDIUM, n.f. [Latin.] Abridg-

TKe fpinners, carders, fullers, temfJH by hun-

He rcfufed, and faid,.I will not eat

3.

Ber.tlcy.

conllrain ; to neceHitate ; to urge irre-

2.,

Delay;

Such a quantity of any thing as is fuffi-

1.

mariiy ; in epitome.
By the apotlles we have the fubftance of Chrif-

By mc invefted, he compeeri the beil.

E K u I N a't ION. n.

Co'mPETENCE.
r rr
Co'mpetency. \ »•/ [from competent.-]

tymdward.

tian belief lompendioujjy

R.

perendinate.]

Compe'ndiously. adv. [from compen-

a. [from the noun.] To
be equal with ; to mate.
In his own grace he doth exalt hlmfdf
Mote than in your advancement,

To delay.

perendino, Lat.]

Co M p E

whereby they lliarcened their labours, and

gained time.

Ph'ilips.

counterbalance; to

")

CoMPENDI a'riOUS. adj. [compe>tdiari:iS,

adj.

to

To COMPERE'NDINATE. v. a. [com-

abflra£l

IVatti't Imprivement cf the Mind.

Fitly ; fuitably.

Com p a't e n

1.

and

them into brief compcr.dt.

Compa'tibly. adv. [from compallbU.']

i

funiraary ; epitome; con-

traction ; breviate.
Fix in memory the dlfcourfcs,

thing.

.

That which compenfates ;

Perhaps it (hould be

Recotnpence ;
amends.

fomething

equivalent

I t.'iinlc it

hath bi^cn competently proved.

Bentley.

Bacon.

prydent AurcngKek.

but none think rlie appointment tj bf a duty
of
juIUcc bound to rt-lpeci deiut.
»^a'„ „,

fcfvitc in till; wir^, called a parliament.

\

Adequately; properly.
ftcafonably ; moderately ; without fuperfluity or want.
Sime places rtir^wht m^n compctcmjy tnA^vci

l*oynings, the better to make eontpt-nfutiorrof his

To

1.

All other debts may conpenjar'tan (\nAy
But love it &SI&, aad wiU be piid in kind.

2.

;

COMPE-

COM

COM
For this word a corrupt orthogra-

tin.

phy has introduced comfalitU.]
able to ; confident with.
not cMttfrtHu: with

is

It

jnucit as to mcliiw any man

Suit-

the grace of God fo

The duration o( eternity i parte ante is fuch as
God, and not cr>m-

J

4..

SuitablcBels;

fetitio,

to compofe. Not ufed.
;
Lion like, unlan4ilh and more wiM,
Slave to his yxu\ty and all hjs nerv'cs being natu-

Pale death our valiant leader hath opprels'd.

Come wtealc his lofa whom boocleli ye ctmplain,
Fairfax.

Of eminent Hrength, ftalks out and preys upm B

fitnefs.

[from con and

filly

Gaufride, who couldfl fo well in ihimc rony/ojr.
The deaih of Richard, with an arro* flain.

Chi}/>mar*s I.'wti*

fceep.

Comp/lfment.

Latin.]

[from compile.l
n. f,
Coacervation ; the aft of piling together ; the ad of heaping up.
1 was encouraged to allay how 1 could build a
man ; for there is a moral ai well as a natural or

another eiideavours to gain at the fame
time ; rivalry ; contcft.

The ancient flames ot difcori and inteftine wtrj

artificial cmipiltmcntj and

upon the umfttiikx at' both houfet, would, again

of better materials.

Drydm'i Fahln.

They might the grievance inwardly nmp/ain.
But outwardly they needs mart temporize.
Pan. Ci'uH ffar^

Compla'inant. ». /. [from complain,'^
One who urges a fuit, or comracnccj

ff^ottm on Educaiictt*

Bmoii.

return.

a profecutiou, againft another.

A portrait, with which one of Titian's could Compi'ler. n./, [from compile,'] A col-

Drydtn's Dufrejn:}.
not come in crniprtiticji.
Though what pioduces any degree of pleafure be
in itfcif good, and what is apt to produce any degree of pjin be evil, yet often we do not call it

ledor ;

Some draw experiments Into titles and tables;
Bacon's New AtalantU,
thofe we call comft'tUrt*
Some painful nrnpiUr, who will n:udy (i-ld language, may inform the world that Robert carl ot

We AouW be afhamed to rival infcriours, and

Oxford was h'-gh trcafurer.

dirtioaour our nature by fo degrading a ci.mpct}:kn.
Rf/gcn.

Co mpla'cence.7
claim of more than one Compla'cency. J

Double claim
to one thing : anciently with to.

2.

;

Coaftiiiion it

1.

Bacon.

1

ff.

by converiing cannot chelc cre^l

Dryiicn.

place.

Compe'titor. «./ [con and. fetitor, Latin.]

One that has a claim oppofite to ana rival :

with /or before the

2.

thing claimed.

How furious and impatient they be.

Bmtm.
the comftiitir.
Cicereius and Scipio were nmftlMnftr the o*'-

fall, to gratify

TaiUr.

fice of prittor.

Hei«ho trufts in God has the advantage in prefent felicity; and, when we take fufjrity into the

account, ftands alone, and is atknowkdgcJ toh«'c
Rogtr:.

no competitor.

The caufe of pleafure joy,
O thou, in hcav'n ami earth the only peace
Found out for mankind under wrath O thou.

had formerly 0/ before the thing

Civility ;

3.

feems to fignify only

Shaitfpearc's RichartI lU.

Compk-a'tion. ti.f. [fromfow/i/7o, Lat.]
1.

A collcflion from various authors.

2.

An aflemblage

;

a coacervation.

a fniall vein filK'd with fpnr,
probably fince the time of the compiljiion of the
fyooJiViini Cfi yoffih.
mafs.

There

it

in

it

To COMPI'LE. -v. a. [compilo, Latin.]
To draw up from various authors ; to
1
colleft into one body.
2.

l!a write; to compofe.
It.

The caufe

p etry they com/i/e the praifci of virtuous

mm and adions, and fatites agaioil vice, 'ftmfle.

or

fubjeft

of complaint

The poverty of the clergy in England hath been
the complaint of all who wifti well to the church.
Sfvifi,

They were not fatisfied with their go\'emnur,

3.

A malady

Arhutbnot.

His great humanity appeared in the bencvolcnci;

Civil ; aftable ; foft ; complatfant.

Te COMPLA'JN. -v. n. [comfkiiu/rt, Fr.]
To mention with forrow or refentment
I
.

to murmur; to lament.

With ^/'before

the caufe of forrow: fometimcs with on.
Lord Hallings,

Humbly complaimng to her deity,
Got my lord chamberlain his liberty.
Sbakefpcari' s Richard III.
I will fpealc in

the angutfh of my Ipirit;

complain in tlic bitternefs of my foul.

1

will

Joh, vli. i j.

bhall 1, like thee, on Fiid.iy n)^\X ccmptein

For on that day was Cuur de Leon flain.
Piydin'i Faila.

Do not all men complain, even ihcle as wcil as
odiers, o/'the great ignorance of maiikind f

Bidina'iPnfaii lo 'Ihctrj cf Earth.

a difeafc.

till

QLrenHor}.

of his afpcdl, the amplauncy of his behaviour, and
AJJ'tJoti'i Freeholder*
the tone of his vt)ice,
Complacency and truth, and manly fwectneft.
Dwell ever on his tongue, and fmooth his thoughts.

;

One, in a complaint u{ his bowels, was let blood
he had ftarcc any left, and was pcrfcftly cured.

and apprehcnfive of his rudenef;* and want of compUcer.cy,

COMPLA'CENT.«<^\ [complacrns, Lat.]

Flock to tl-.e rebels.

Adam fjw
Already in part though hid in gloomieft fluJe,
To forrow abandon'd, l«it worft fclc within.
And in a troubled fea of pailion tofc*d.
Thus to diiburthen fought with fad canpta'mt. Milt,

manners.

With mean complacence ne'er betray your trult,
Fcpe.
Nor be fo civil as to prove unjuiK

it

As for me, is my complaint to man. 'Jeh, xxi. 4.

of

foftnefs

Knoihi's H\liiij.

an opponent.
The Guildfords arc in arms.
And every hour more ccmfeuiort

injuries ;

grief.

Selymcs, king of Algiers, was in arms againft
Mcchemetes, comfilil.r of the king-

dom,
In Shakej'peare

pains or

m

z.

Md'ijot!.

his brother

Sxvift^

I cannot And any caufe of compJa'mt, that good
wc to
laws have fo much been wanting unto us,
Hjoitr'i liedica:ion.
them.

Milton i Paraiiifc Lcji,

complaifance ;

claimed.

3.

Reprefentation ol
lamentation.

;

My fole complacence

Shuktj'ftari' s Tilui AiJrer.uus.
Some undertake fuits with purpofe to let them

I

court, though railcrs do.

!

And cannot brook nmfititurs in love.

and oa tlui ucciifton I

Compla'iwt. ;;./ ^compUiiitU, French.]

South.
and complacency upon the whole foul.
Dlfealcs extremely lelTen the complacence we have
j^tterh. Sermona,
in all the good things of this life,
Others proclaim the infirmities of a great man
fatisfaction
complacency
if they dtfcover
and
y
with
none of the like in themfeives. Addifons SptBator*

:

a. It

Philips is a complainir ;

told lord Carteret, that caapla'wert nc%ei: fuccacd at

I .

When the fuprcme faculties move regularly, tlie

other's ;

St. Jude obferwt, that the mucmuieis and con-

fla'mers are tlie f.:mc who fpealc fwelling words.
Government cf the Tongue ^

Ki'iltcru

inferior afieilions following, there arifes a fcrcnity

1.

;

S'zvift.

The prize of beauty was difputed till you were

mod e.>gof

Collier's Defer, r.

lamenter.

/.

fecn i but now all pretenders have withdrawn thejr
there is no ccKpiliiiin but for the feconJ
claims

author are the

Compla'iner. ». /. [from complain.'\
One who complains ; a murmurer a

From prone, nor in their ways complacence find.

Now with /or.

this

coaplainanis of the difpute.

[complauntiay
low Latin.]
Pleafure; fatisfaftion ; gratiEcatioiu

the crown there is none, nor can

be.

3.

Congreve and

one who frames a compofition

from various authors.

degrees alfo
fo, \«hcn it comes in ccmfttU'wn: the
i.oc*r.
of pleafure and pain have a preference.

Shaktfp, M:rry Wivci of fTindfir.

Te Compi.a'i n. t;. a. [This fenft is rare,
and perhaps not very proper.] To lament J to bewail.

rally ic/Npirj

The afl of endeavouring to gain what

1.

!>pcnjcr,

To make up

Compe'tielenkss. «./. [froin comfeii^/?.]

To

the council ?

Through tairy and, which thofcfix books .'&m^//f,

tnunicable to any created being. Sir AfatibiW Hall.

COMPETrXION. ». /.

Whciefoie doth a living man (««/>/«»,. a man

Lam. iii. M.
for the punilhment cf hii fins?
inform againft.
3.
Now, mailer Sliallow, yno'U cemplaia ef me to

to comprifc : not ufeJ.
;
AUer Id long a rate as I have run

Give leave to reil me.

Dryitn.

liirft.

noun.

To contain

3.

i

Sometimes with /or before the caufal

2.

j^/hutbnot end Vvpet

Thofe are proi>ertie» not at all amfaihlii to body
or matter, though of never fo pure a mixture. ^

IS only tttKftiikle to tlie eternal

In rtiidft of water 1 compleut of

bim forrocHy tortfffj^i/ra difl'rrtaiion conccrnuig ir.

to do evil.

HimmcrJ en FuitJamentaU.

.

Thus acturs'd.

Bv the accounts which authors have left, they
might irAtn that tiie t'lC^*- ot' Tea aiiil iajiJ it the
fame that ic was svhco tliolc accounts wc;c ifmp>\}<d»
yy^fidwartVi Natural If iji^ty*
The regard ho hadf ^t his fiiiekl, had catsleJ

COMPETIBLE. naj. [from ttinfete, La-

^.

RemonHrance againft ; information againft.
Full of vexation, comr I.with (tmplenit
Againft my child. Skak. Midjum. Night' 1 Dream.
In evil llrait this day 1 ftand
Before my judge, either to undergo
M) felf the total crime, or to tccufu
M\ other felf, the partner of my lifcj
V» hofe falling, while her faith to me remains,
I Ihould conceal, and not expofe to blame
By my complaint \ but ftrift necclTity
Subdues nie, and calamitous conftr.»iut.
Milton.
Againll the goddefs thcfe complaint: he made.
Viyilcn'i Mniid.

CoMPL aisa'nce. n.f. [cotnplaifame, Fr.]
Civility i defire of pleafmg ; ad of adu>
lation.
Her death is but in complaijance to her. Oryden.
Vou muft alio be induiiriuus to difcovcr the opinion of your enemies ; for you may be aHured,
that they will give you no quarter, and allow no>
Dryden't Dufrejnoj,
thing to (cmpiaifanee.
Fair Venus wept the fad difallsr
Of having loft her fav*rlte dove:
In complaifance poor Cupid mourn'd j
His grief rclicv'd his mother's pain.
Tr'nr,

COMPL.'U-

t O M

COM

COMPLAISA'NT. ailj. \complaiJkni,Yt.-\^

which we do to Cod ; and not an exercife to fpend
the time, when one doth wait for another coming,
till
the afli;mbly of them that fliall afterwards
worfliip him be t<w/>/iT<.
Hoohr.
AnJ ye are nmp/ite in him which is the hc^d

Civil ; defirous to pleafe.
There are to whom my latirc fecms

too bold j
Scarce ro wile Peter iw/-/(if/J7// enou^,
And fomething faiiof Chatttu mucfrtoo rough.

Complaisa'ktly. ad-a. [from comf/ai-

having no degrees,
properly admit mori and ma/l.

2. Comph'ie,

In plenty llarving, tantalized in ftate*
And crjmj>kifar.ily hdf'i to all 1 hate;
Treated, carefs'S, and trr'd, I take my leave. Pcpc.

Oomplaisa'ktness. a.f. [fcatacmnplai-

tlcular parts in one integral ; contrariety to fimplicity ; compound ftate or

nature.

From the ccmfi/exedaefs of thefe moral idfas,
there follows another inci>nvenicncc, that the rood

of all principality and power.
CoUjJi^ins, ii. ic.
Th-i-n marvel not, thou great and i-omy/erc man.
That all the Creeks iiegin t'l worftip Ajax. Shji.

Fopc.

CivilJy ; with defire to plcafe ;
Jant.]
ceremonioufly.

COM
cannot eafily retain thole pvecilc combinations*
hocie.

Comple'xion. tt. f. [cnjrtplc.xij), Lar.m.']
The inclofure or involution of one thing

cannot

1

If any Uifpoiition Ihould appear towards (o good

in another.

a work, .the aflillance of t-lie legiflative power would

be necPlTary to make it tnrc c.mfilere,

3.

faat.] CiviUiy ; compliance.
D:c7.
Ta Compla'n ATE. Iz). a. [from planus,

Thr.u'jh the terms of propofitions may be com-

Finilhed ; ended ; concluded.
Thii courfe of vanity almort roff^^A^rf,
Tir'd in the ftold of life,

I

fimpk, jud regular, it ii prppfrly called »
iimple fyllogilin, fmce the cmit^lexhn does not. belong to the fjlbgidick foim of it.
H'.iiti,
is

hope retreat.

Prior.

jLat.] To level ; to To Comple'i e. f. a. [from the noun.j
Toperfedl; to finilh.
reduce to a fiat and even Airface.

S"o Compla'ni.

Shahj}tare's JUcBat-dU,

Pife.

Com^ple'tbly.

3. Complete (et ; complete provifion ; the
full quantity or nomber.

retain in

whence ceremony wa.s called commit-

ment, now corrupted to ctmpliment.
If the cafe permittcth not baptifm

have the
4lecent complements of baptifm, better it were to enjoy the body without his furniture, than to wait for
this, till the opportunity at that, for which we defire it, be loft.
Hosier,
Thefe, which have l«(Hy fprung up, for crnnplemtnli, rites, and^remonies of church .afiion;,

A doleful cafe dcfitu a doleful fong.
Without vain art or curious cotnfUrncnts,

Spenftr,

Garniih'd .ind deck'd in models commitment,
Dot working with ttic ear, but with the eye. Shdt.

[In geometry.] What remains of a
quadrant of a circle, or of ninety degrees, after any certain arch hath been
retrenched from it.
The dillance of a
5. [In aftronomy. ]

4.

6.

origin, the antiquity, the growth, the change, and

the ctmpletcmeni of fatire among the Romans.

Dryden^t Dedication' to JwvenaL

Comple'teness. n.f. [from co>npkte.~\
PerfeAion ; the fiate of being com-

CO'MPLEX. ladj.

[comphxus, Latin.]
Complb'xed.j
Compoiite ; of many
parts ; not Ample ; including many particulars.

To exprefs ccrupicx.'d fignifications, they took a

Perfeft ; full ; having no deficiencies.

With us the reading of fcriptnre is a part cf our
thorch

liturgy, a fpctial potlioa ui

Vol, L

tlie

l«yicc

Drydens Fahies.
For from all tempers he could fcrvicc draw
;

Drydcn.

Swift.
.

|

Depending on the complexion or temperament of the body.
Men and other animals receive; d'tliiitent tiicfures from «m/>/«icHij/ efllorefcencies, and.defcend
rtill lower as they partake of the fuliginous and denigrating humours,
ftrozun.
Ignorance, where it proceeds, from early pr ipmpjexional prejudices, wiU not wh'jily exclude from
favour of God.
Fiddeiif

Compli.'xionallv. adv.

[from

cfni.

Ky complexion.

liberty to compound and piece together creatures of

pUxion,]

allowable forms into mixtures incxiftcnt.

An Ind. an king lent unto Alexander a fair woman, fed with poilnns, ^i;her by convetle 01 co-

Brirwn.

Ideas made up of feveral Ample ones, I call complex ; fuch as beauty, gratitude, a man, the univerfe; which, though complicated of various fimple ideas, ot eom/JfX ideis made up of fimpie ones,

yet are c^nflicrtd each by itfelf a^ one.

Locke.

A fccond.iry elfenti:*.! mode, called a property,
making up the eflence of
1Vj:ti.

With fuch perfe^lion-iVam'd
Is this complex ftupcndous fclicnir of thing),

COMPLE'TE. adj. [compUtus, Latin.]

'Tis ill, though different your comphxioni Site,

The family of hcav'n for men ihauld war.

Nor is complexion honour's place.

South.

rafter to bear a malevolence to the bell men. Ptpi.

The temperature of the body, according to the various proportions of the four
medical humours.

ComPle'xional. adj. [from complexion 1

receiving their complciii,n

Utmoft height ; perfect ftate.
He makes it the utmoll eomplcticn of an ill cha-

(bmetime-. goes toward

7 . Arithmetical Complement of a Logarithm, is what the logarithm wants of
I0,000>000.
Chambers.

eminent perlbns of that complexhr. Addijon's SptH,
3.

Burnet's Theory of the Earth,
Let melancholy rule fupieme,
Choler prclidc, or blood, or phlegm.
It makes no dift"'rence in tlie cafe.

There was a full entire harm'iny and confent of
in Chrift.

run over all the

The methods of providence, men of this complexion muft be unfit for the contemplation of.

Accomplifhment; aftef fulfilling ; ftate
of being fulfilled.
all tlie divine predidliont,

Collier on Pride.
1

And, as the confident oi nature^ faw

Comple'tion. n.f. [frora complete.

2.

U I write on a blacb man,

How lb.' complexions did divide and brew.

Wails'iLogick.

a caKflex being.

the interiour fide

makes their fpirits ftem more vigorous.

The worth of each, with its allay, he knew;

plete,
1 cannot allow their wifdom fnch a «m^/r/(m^i
and inerrabiiity as to exclude myl'elf. PC, Charles.
Thefe parts go to make up the campteteneU of any

1.

Djvies.

Njcenefs, though it renders them inlignilicant to
great purpofes, yet it polilhes their complexion, and

S^wift.

fubjea.

Shakefpeart.

Why doth not beauty then refine the wit,
And good complexion reftify the will ?

memory every tingle fentcncc con-

Complement of the curtain, in fortification, that part in

I .

his

ftar from the zenith.

of it which makes the demigorge.

CLmplrxion fcever.

[from ««//<««rt/t/, French.] The acl of completing.
Allow me to give you, from the bcft authors, the

to

are, in truth, for the grcateil part, fuch
fiily
things, that very cafinefs doth make them hard to
difputcd
of
in
ferio'js
manner.
be
Uacker,

•

'\

.'

tained in this work.

V/ith all his rage, and dread, and grief, and care;
His cffmpUmint of ftorcs, and total war.
Pnor,

tal :

[fvom complete.

Comple'tement. n.f.

The god of love himleU inhabits there,

Adfcuitious circumftances ; appendages ; parts not neceffary, but ornamen-

1

Btacimivc.

enjoyed by the protcftion of a king of the moft
harmlefs difpolition, the moll exemplary piety, the
greatctl fobriety, challity, and mercy. . Claundtm.
The fenfible natu re, in its e^ptjtUment and integrity, hath five exterior powers or faculties.
Origin af Mankinii.

1

Whatever perfon would afpire to be comp.ftely
witty, fmart, humorous, and pofite, muft be able to

They as they feaited had their fill,
For a full CMplemnt of all their ill. Hubia-d's Tale.

fiiile'l

ad-v.

TJirough fpace, of matter fo campltitly full

Uooktr,

For a cmfianent of thefe blcBings, they were

So m ch complexion ?
Shakeffearc' s Htiuy V.
He fo takes on yonder, fo rails againft all married mankind, fo cujfes«ill Eve's daughters, of what

Fully; perfeSly.
Then tell us, how you can your bodies roll

fome principal limbs or parts, as a campUment
which fully pet/e£leth M'hatiaevcr may be defe^ive
.

What fee you in thofe papers, that you lofe

Aiid lieads the bold trained -band i, and burns a pope.

pletement.
Our cuHnm is both to place it in the t'ront of
«ur pra} en as a guide, and to add it in the end of

3.

Men judge by the ccfnpkx'un of the &y

Bred only and completed to the tafte

tin.]

In the reft.

The colour of the external parts of any
The ftate anJ inclination of the day.

Of luftfut appetence.
Mi/ion.
To town he comes, c^irphici ths nation's hope,

Comple'at, See complete.
Co'm plemert. n.f. [complanentutn, LaI. Perfeflion ; fulnefs ; completion ; cora-

pliin,

body.

tTa/ion.

Derham.

mufclcs.

2.

Mr. Sanderfou was conrp/etcd midtr of art:.

The vertebrae of the neck and back-bone are
made Ihort and cdmpianatedf ana firmly braced with

yet where the compofition of the argument

plex,

tSiolft.

.

Tb^mfoni Spring.

Co'mplex.

n.f.

[

from the aajedive. ]'

Complication ; collc^ion.
This parable of tlic wedding luppf^r compreliendb
in it the vehuic coriflcx of all tiie blellingb and privileges exhibited Ly th« gofpel.

South't Sermons.

Comple'xedness. n.f. [from complex.]
Complication ; involution of many par-

puta:ion {^tnplcxicr.ally to deftroy him.
.

BroiLu'i Vulgar f.rrouti,

CoMPLE'xLy, adv. [from complex. 1
a complex manner ;

Comple'xness,

n,

fn

not fimply.
f.

[from comflex.'\

The Hate of being complex.
CoMPi. e'xure. n.f. [from complex.'] The
involution or complication of one thing

with ethers.

Compli'ance. n.f [from comply.']
I. The aifl of yielding to any defire or
demand ; accord ; fubmiffion.
I am far from exculing that compliance, for plenary confcot it was not, to hit delUu£lJon.

King Chorlct.
3

.\

We

The notions of aconfufcil knowledge art always

ut free from any necef^ary dtterminatio* of
our w.ll to any partitubt iflion, and from a ncany
ceiiary tmfliance with our defire, f« upon
particular, and then appearing preferable, g'lod.

Wc

full of perplexity

*/iaiirt, are fins, v«bich forfeit eternal expeflations.

alTociate, low Lat.]

with others in an ill defign ; an affociate ; a confederate ; an accomplice.

A

Millfn't ParaJifi L'fi.

Civil; complaifant. V

ot

.5c CO'MPLICATE. v. a.

[comJ>Iico,

La-

a

man of ready

Tho'igh 'the particular aftions of war are ma-

CO'MPLIMENT. «./ [compl'ment. Fr.]
An adl or expreflion of civility, ufually

flicated with injury to mtn, we ihuuld

underftood to
is

TiUoiJin.

jirlwthmt on Diet.

There are a multitude of human actions, which

another.
Commotion in the parts may make them apply
thcmfelvtis one to another, or ccmplUaU anj dilpofe
them after the manner requifite to make them (lick.

Miltcn'sParadifeRl^ained.
Outlandilh riattcrics ?
Virtue, religion, heaven, and eternal happincfs,
are not trifles to be given up in a copifiiment, or la-

Ball's Hiflcry cf Firm7:efs.
;

to form by

thick fwarming now
With comflicaied monfters, head and tail.
Milton's ParaJifc Loji.
man, an army, the unircrfe, arc complicated oi
various Ample ideas, or complex ideas oiiidc up of
!

A

Locke.

frmple ones.

Co'mplicate. eitfj. [from the veib.]
Compounded of a multiplicity of parts.
What pleafure would felicitate his fpirit, if he
cnuld grafp all in a furvey, as a painter runs o/er
a ctmflicale piece wrought by. Titian or Raphael.
H^aitt on the Mii:d.

Co'MPtlCATENESS.

fl.

/.

[ftOmcompli-

The Hate of being complicated

ecte.l

intricacy ; perplexity.
There is great variety cf intelligiblcs in
world, fo much objeded to eur

Rogers.

crificed to a jeft.

the union of feveral parts into one integral.
Dreadful was the din

Of hiCing theottgh the hall

enough.

;

the

To Co'mpliment.^'. a. [from the noun.]

To footh with adls or exprefiions of re-

in

ij.

«.

I

Shakefpeari' s RichardW,

gether, and contriving a new Icene of miferies to
Pope.
the Trojans.

confpirator ; one joined in a plot.
Jocafta too, no longer now my (liter,
Is found comphtter in the horrid deed.

Dry den anJ Lee's Oedipus.

To COMPLY', v. n. {^Skinner derives it
but probafrom the French complairc
bly it comes from compiler, to bend to.
;

Plier

The aft of involving one thing in an-

Tillotfon,
Ti/lot/o^..
ccit>, and bend itfelf to our intcrclt.
Remember I am (he who fav'd your life.
Your loving, lawful, aai complying vi\{e. Dryden^

He made his wi/h •wilk his cllate comply
Joyful to live, yet not afraid to die.

Boyle.

Hate of being involved one in. an-

other.
All our grievances ore either of body or of mind,
I. Fjlrangr.
in comp/icaticnt uf btjtl><

10
I

dies may be conjcfturcd by ilicir colours.

Neivton'f Optich.,

To COMPCRT. -j.n. [comporter, French,
from />«»7o, Latin.] To agree ; to fuit.:
followed by itHth.

uppn

Shakejprare's Troilus and Crejfidj.
Languages, for the moil part, in terms of art and,
erudition, retain their original poverty, and rather
grow rich and abundant in compHmmtal phrafes,
and fuch fruthi
tVetton,

Prior*

which conftitutcsa compound body.
The b;gncfs,of xhe compoi/ent parts of natural bpr

fpeak with Paris from the prince

will make a contplimenlei' alfault

;

Com po'n E NT. aajf. [componem, Lat,] That

Pope.

come

has luith before as well

It

The truth of things will not comply luith ourcon-

1

1

fuit with.

IVaUer.

She comflinrtnts Menelaus very handfomely, and
fays he wanted no accomplilhment either of mind

Troilus :
him.,

To yield to; to

to accord with ; to

to ;

They did fervllcly comply laith the people in worihipping God by fenfible images and reprefentations.

'\

other.

in ufe.]

The rifing fun complies wttb our weak fight,

ing compliments.

[from. complicate.

ftill

Firft gilds the clouds, then ihews his globe of light.

make the interlocutors upon occalion compli-

Exprcffive of refpett or civility ; imply-

is

be obfequious

perfons as things.

To ufe ceremo-

or body.

A

Complo'tter. n./. [from complot.]

'Matter.

CoMP L M e'n.tal. adj.[(rom. compliment.']

fenli:s,

fecret defign, generally crimi-

A few lines after, we find them completing to-

nious or adulatory language.
ment with one another.

to conlpire ; to join

Nor ever by advifed purpofe meet

The watchman gave fo very great a thump at

.

[from the noun.]

a.

To plot, contrive, oi compkt »ny ill.

my door, that I awaked, and heard myfelf «w^/iTo Co'm p l m e n t

any

;

nal.

Fri^r.

nicnted W\\.\\ the ul'ual faiutation.

<v.

To form a plot

Should compliment their foes, and ftiun their friend.:.

Ualt't Origin of M.mkind.

Complica'tion. n. /.

To Complo't.

Gianvilte.

and every
fevjcral objedl is full of fiibdividcd rnultiplicity and
ccmfliciiicnifs,

htiefirrd's Tall,

Monaichs (hould their inward foul difguifc,
Dilicmble and command, be falfc and wile ;
By igiiominous arts, for I'erviie ends,

I

cannot, my life, my brother, like but .veil

have my life.
Sl-atefprare's Henry VI,

fpe£l ; to flatter ; to praife.
It was not to compliment a Ibciety, fo much above
flattery, and the regardlefs air of comipon applaiifes.

a

I know their complot is to

A

a. Tg-Tinite by involation of parts one in

To form by complication

I

A

The purpofe of the comj-lot which ye tell.

.'

have fo many com/ilicaUii circumflances, alpsch,
and fituations, with regard to time and place, perfons and things, that it is iropoflible for any one
to pefs » right judgment concerning them, without entering into moft of thefe circumftances.

m

low Latin. Menage.]
confederacy in fome fecret crime ;
plot ; a confpiracy.
for complexum,

this

He obferved lew complinunts in matter of arms,
but fuch as proud anger did indite to him. Sidney.
My fervant, Sir 'Twas never merry world
Since lowly feigning was call'd comflmint
Y' are fervant to the duke Orfmo, youth. Sbak.
One whom the mulickof his own vain tongue
Doth raviHi, like enchanting harmony :
man of compHmcnts, whom right and wrong
Have chofe as unipiie of their meeting. Sbakeff.
What honour that,
But tedious wafte of time, to fit and hear
So many \\o\\ow compliments and lyes,

eafes, one inuft confider that which is moft dan

gerous.

:

properly complement, fomething fuger-

'fluous, or more than

When the difeafe is compricatfJ with other Jif-

'I'he

make lamentation together.

COMPLO'T. n. /. [Fr. from completum,

include fome hypocrify,

and to mean lefs than it declares

make ref-

rituti9n.

I.

To Complo're. -v. n. [comploro, Lat.] To

e i on purpofe :o gratify complicri, an infupportable
S%ui/t.
dLtfieulty would remain.

;

phcaii in U&, yet they are feparate and diftinct in
Bacon.
right.
In cafe our offence againft GoJ hath been low-

J.

he lafts till even fong, and then fays his c>mf,line
Taylor's U'ly Lifirg.
an hour before the time.

buppol'e a hundred new employments were ereft-

To entangle one with another ; to join
to involve mutually.

'

an eafy temper ;

compliance,

tin.]
I .

At morn and eve, bcfides their anthems fwect,
Their peny raaffes, and their complin's meet.
HuUerd-s Tale.
If a man were but of a day's life, it is well if

The marquis prevailed with the king, that he
might only turn his brother out of the garrifon,
a:ter jurtice was done upon his corr:pUces. Clarendon.
man
Co,viPLi'iiR. n.f. [from (Off;//)'.]

[^compline, ft. completi.,

n.f.

num, low Lat.] The laft a£l of worfhip
at night, by which the fervice of the day
is completed.

Hajivard.

divers.parts of the realm.

The ciKfliant boughs
,

Co'm P LINE.

i

Yielding; bendir.g.
•

'\

;

the prii:cipal being hanged and quartered in Smithand divers of his chief complices executed in
field

ClarcTtHon,

'

Complime'kter. v./. [from compliment.
One given to compliments a flatterer.

Shaktffare'tVenry VI.

Gompli'ant. adj. [from comply.']
Yielded them.

This fpeech has been condemned as avariciooji
Eurtathius judges it fpoken artfully and eemplimenBroome.
tally.

yuliice was afterwards dnr.c upon the offenders,

fCMiice; and ufually delivered that as h-s opinion,
which he forefaw would be grateful to the king.

2.

vility.

To arms, viftorious noble father.
To quell the rebels and their cemflices.

com-

plaifance.
He was a man of few words, and of great cum-

X.

[Fr. from complex, an
One who is united

Co'mplice. n.f.

What cemfliamn will remove dilTenfion, while
the liberty continues of profefling what new opiSiui/V.
nions we pleafe ?

ment ; civilly ; with artful or falfe ci-

}Vatiii Lcgick.

dazztid and bewildered.

is

In the nature of a compli-

ment al.]

involved, perplexed, and united.
By admitting a amflicaiien of ideas, and taking
too m.iny things at once into oue ijucllion, the mind

Rvtvc.

;

ff^iltini.

This falfehood of Ulyffet is intlrely cmprimeiitai
Bromttw
and flficious.
Complime'ntally. ad-v. [from compli-

integral confiding of many things
J. The

Tho adions to which the world folicits our ctm-

A difpofition to yield to others

and ecmplicati'.ni, and feldom in

order.

Let the king meet ccmfriumi in your looks,

A free and ready yitlding tn his wiflits.

t.

COM

COM

COM

Some piety "s not good there, fome vain difport
Ofi this fi4e fin, ivitB that place may comport.

Donnt,
\

S«cb does not comport leitb the nature of time.
Uilder.,

COM

COM
It is not every man's talent to didinguiHi aright

which all his fears would be ccmpofH. Clarendon.
You, that had taught tliem to fubdue their foes,
Could erder teach, and their high fpVits ccmpofe.

;

to endure.

2.

To behave

to carr)' : with the reci-

;

power to ftill and compofe it, as well as to move
and dillurb it.
Wood^vard.
Yet, to ctmpofe this midnight uuife.
Go freely fearch where'er you plcaf-.
Prior.
7. To adjuft the mind to any bufinefs, by

The mind, being thus

[from the verb.] BehaCompo'rt.
viour ; conduct ; manner of adliiig and

We befcech thee to compoje her thoughts, and
prcferve her reafon during iicr iickneis.

To adjull

8.

I (hall account concerning the rules and manners of deportment in the receiving, our comport
and converfation in and after it.

Compo'rt ABLE.

aiij.

[from comfort.

to put the letters in order in the

thod of compofiticn.

ingredients.
Heat and vivrcity, in age, is an excellent tompofition for bufinefs.

can imagine.

Mdifin,
Jove raix'd up all, and his heft clay employ'd,

Then call'd the happy compoftion Floyd.
Sieift,
4. The Hate of being compounded ; union ;
conjunftion ; combination.
Contemplate things lirit in their own fimple na.
turCi, and afterwards view them in compofition with

other things.

Calm; ferious
is

'I'he difpofition in a pifture is an

fomcthiiig

iViil

more fcrious

[from

Dryden's Dufrefnty*

Writers are divided concerning the authority of
the greater part of thofe compojitions that pafs in his

name.

[from

comport.'\

pofedly

as a compofition fit to have pr< ceeded from the wifcft

of men.

f.llow that killed

rule or line ; but the various romporrmcim of the
creature, either thwarting this lule, or holding

pofidly anIwcrcJ, 1

To COMPO'SE. 'V. a. [compo/er, Fr. com

fmartnefs of parti.

An author

To put together a difcourfe or fcntence

CoMPo'siTE. adj. \compofilus, Latin.]
The iompojite order in architecture is the Lift

Words f» p'.cafing to Cod, as thofe which the

of the

himkll hath cempiftj, were not pofli-

ble for men to

frame.

lick order.

manner of the old CJrcJjn Ljricks, did not only

Nor did llrael 'fcipe

Th" infeftion, when their bjimw'd g'»ld compoi'd
1 he calf in Orth.
Mi/ton'> Paradije l.'.ji.
A f-w ufcfu! things, confounded w.th many trifles,

fill

their memories, and CMpojt tlieJr intdl( c.

tual pofiefliins.

Wans,

Harris.

Some arc of opinion, that the compojite pillars of

the wor^^ nf ]v; divine odes, but generally
fet ttiim to muliik himfiif.
Md-.fn.
co>rpi,Jt

To coiillitute by being parts of a whole.

fo named, bccaul'e

its capital is corr.pof-d out of thof-- of the oiher
orders ; and it is alfo called the Roman and Ita-

Hooter.

The grejtcft conqueror in this nation, after tlie

5

liv^ orders of columns }

this arch

were in imitation of the pillars uf Solo-

mon's temple,

Composi'tion.
I.

Addijon.
It.

f,

\_compcijttio,

Latin.]

The ad of forming an integral of various diflimilar parts.

We lia\e rxact liinus oi compojitioti, whereby they
incorporate almoft as tiicy were natural fimples.
Bttcin iHiiu Atlaniii

between men, judging

hoveful.

He that adapts the mufick to words ;
he that forms a tune.

1 intended to move the paflions, that he ftems to
have been the poet as well as the ccmpofcr.
Dryden'i jilbi-jn and Albaniuif Preface.

which thty couid not by

to write as an author.

tit,n

MdiJ'.n'l Frecho/Ja.

For compolition, 1 prefer next Ludovico, a moil
judicious and fweet compojcr.
Pcacham on Miijiik.
Tlie coir.p'jjcr has lo cxprclfed my fcnfe, where

tbrcrdufi,

d

Milton.

;

terms on which

it

convenient and beHooker,

Tluis we arc agreed j
crave our conipofiion may be svrittcn
And fcal'd between us. Shah. Antony and C'copaf,

J

For the troth of the theory I am in no wife concerned, the ionif'ofcr of it mult look to that. Woediv.

to put in the proper (late

lliclt fen.

Son of C

and ampofen in every excellent

they at leatl do no harm, and (hew an
honell induHry, and a good intention in the com2.

agreement

differences are fettled.
To take away alffuch mutual grievances, injtirics, and wrongs, there was no way but only by
going upim compof.ii'jn and agreement amongft
thenil'elves.
And again, all publick regiment, of
what kind foevcr, fcemeth evidently to have arifen
from deliberate advice, conlultation, and compfji^

a writer.

; Jcr,

that by their fwords,

8. Compaft ;

them,

Spr^iti.

for any purpole.
The whole army fee med well cimp'JcJ to obtain

4.

Notni.
'\

If the thoughts of fuch authors have nothing in

and method.

;

;

be able writers
matter.

To place any thing in its proper Ibrm

3. To difpofe

A preacher, in the invention of matter,^eIeflion
of words, ampo/ition of gellurc, took, pronunciation, motion, ufeth all thele faculties at once.
Ben yonfons Difcoveries,

Now will be the right feafbn of forming them ta

Zeal oui;ln to be ccmftfed of the highcft degrees

!. ap acitul ^r?ve my corps dw/o/r. Dryd. Ain.
How doth the fia exactly com^.'fe itfclf to a .cvcl
fupcrficici, and with ihi earth make up one fphcrical roundnefs.
Ruy.

Addifon's Guariiati,

Adjuftment ; regulation.

7.

compo/ed.']

CoMPo'sER. It. /, {from compofe.

things together.
of all pious at^Vdtions.

[from

n. /.

He that will think to any purpole, mult have
fixcdnels and tompojedneji of humour, as well as

To form a mafs hy joining different

2.

Clarendon.

Sedatenefs ; calmnefs ; tranquillity.

1

pono, Latin.]
1.

ver what he likes in a compojltion.

am he.

CoMPo'sEDNESs.

JIaie.

By her fcrious and devout coirporlmeitl on thcfe
folemo occations. Hie gives an example that is very
often too much wanted.
AriUJ'on's freeholder.

the works of the author, and by that means difco*

duke; every body alked,

which is he ? The man without the hit very com-

conformity to it, occafion fcvctal habitudes of this
rule.

the

Addijcn.

When I read rules of criticifm, I enquire after

One crying, Here is the

without a hat.

Behaviour ; praftice.
The will o! God is like a ftraight unalterable

L'Ejirange,

That divine prayer has always been looked upon

compo/ed.l,

;

Compo'rtment. n. f.

Written work.

6.

Calmly ferioully ; fedately.
A man was walking before the door very cww-

Fairy S^uten.

alTembling of

is meant the diHribution and orderly placing of
things, both in general and in particular.

ccfit-

even; fedate.

;

CoMPo'sEDLV. adv.

And entertain themfclves with cuurt'fursmeet.

Walts.

The arrangement of various figures in

5.

many parts j is alio called the ccmpojition, by which

In bpajn there

Behavionr; gefture of ceremony.

T^acon's E£ay>.

Vaft pillars ofilone, cal'ed o\tr viithicov.pojititn
that looks the moll like marble of any thing one

a pifture.

and comptjed in the manner of the inhabitants.
Addifon on Italy.
The Mantuan there in fnber triumph late,
Compos'd his pollute, and his look ledate.
Pope.

Wotson^i Arcb'iteSJure.

Newton's Opticit.

formed by mingling diiferent

[In mulick.]
To form a tune from
the different mufical notes.

po/e."]

Compo'rtance. n. f. [from comport.'\

of difficult things, by the

compofing ftick.

CoMPo'sED. participial adj. [from

We caft the rules and cautions of this art into

inveftigation

3. _A mafs

10.

"l

Goodly ccmportance each to other bear.

The

To arrange the let-

[With printers.]
ters ;

Confiftent ; not contradidlory.
fome iomportabU method.

S'ivift,

as, to compofe a

:

difference.

9.

Tttykr's Worthy Communicant.
I know them well, and mark'd their rude comprrt \
In times of tempeft they command alone.
And he but fits precarious on the throne.
Drydcv'l Fahlci.

to fettle

;

oppoled vaanalyjis, Cf the

:

method of analyfis, ought ever to precede the me-

may not be

dilquieted,

Duppa"! Rules for Dcvoti'^n.

n. f.

looking.

complication

able eafily to ojmpoje and fettle itfelf to prayer.

Congrtve^s }Vay of ibt World.

!

Temple.

,

The aft of bringing iimple ideas into
feparation of complex notions.

freeing it from dillurbance.

procal pronoun.
At years of difcretion, and comport yourf^If at
this rantipole rate

difeafe.

2.

Waller.

This is a Gallick

fignification, not adopted among us.
The malecon tented fort,
That never can the prcfeat ilate comport
But would as often change as they change will.
Oankl.

•

Compofe thy mind;
Nor frauds are here contrived, nor force defign'd.
Drjdeii.
He, having a full command over the wacei, had

TcCompo'rt. -v, a.

To bear

to quiet.

;

He would undertake the journey with htm, by

L'EJh-ung!.
dence.
Children, in thij things they Jo, if they eemfon
virh their age, fina iittle difference, in they may
Locki.
be doing.

1.

To calm

6.

how far our prudence may warrant our charity,
and how far our charity may comjfurt with our pru-

COM
In the time of the Yncas reign cif Peru,
eomfjition w,!s allowed by the laws to be ufcd in
point of medicine, but only fimpies proper to each

I

Their courage droops, and, hopelefs now, they
with

For coniprjition with th' unconquer'd fifh.

Walter,

The aft of dilcharging a debt by pay-

9.

ing part ; the fum paid.
Confillcncy; congruity.

10.

There is no compofition in thefe news.
.
That gives tiiein credit

— ndced
I

they are difptoportion'd. Shaiejp. Oitellt,

[In grammar.] The joining of two
Winds together, or the prefixing a particle to another word, to augment, diniinini, or ch.inge its fignitication.

11.

A

certain method of Jen^onltration iji
m.itheinaticks, which i.s the reverfe of
the analytical method, or of rclblution.

12.

It

proceeds upon

principles in

thcm-

on definitions, poftulates, auil axioms, and a previoudy
demonllratcd I'erles of propofuions, llep
felves ftlf-eiident ;

3

A 2

by

prnduftinns of leifure, and (hould be read with xVait
favourable allowances that are made to hafty com-

by (Ifp, till it Pives a clear knowledge
This
is called the fynthetical method) and is
u/ed by Euclid in his Elements. Harris.
of the thing to De demonftrated.

In the eomfojum of men, remember you are a
man as well at they 5 and it is not their reafon,
but your Own, that is given to guide you.

paflions of nature ate all filent, and the mind enffatis's Lcglk.
joys its mAft perfeQ ccmfcfure.

8.

A mixture of various fubftances for enfiching the ground ; manure.

Agreement ; compofition ; fettlement
of differences.
The treaty at Uxbridge gave the faired hopes of

Avoid what is to come,

Van guard

And do not fpread the ttmfcfl on tlie wcrds,
To make rhem ranker.
Shekejftart'i Htmlft,
for tbe making uf the earth rruitful.
B«CQn*i AttanUi.

amomum efpe-

which you can hardly lefrcQi too often, and
^vilyn'i Ktltadar.
it re-juires abundant aKpoft.
tlailjr,

DrydcrJ,

In >ain tlie nurding grove

leemj fair awhile, che.lili'd with follcr earth;
But when the atien toni^pjl istxhaull,
Philips.

Te CoMPo'fiT. <v, a. [frrtm the noun.] To
manure to enrich wich-foil.
;

By removing into worfe earth, er forbearing to
ttmftji the earth, water-mint curneth into iieldniintj ami the colewort into rape.

Eicon's Natvral U'tjttry.

Ai for earth, it ei-mfcjieth itfelf ; for 1 knew a
garacn that had a field puuied upnn it, and it did
Bacon ; Niiiural H,fit,ry.
bear fruit eKvikntly.

COMPO'STURE.B.^ [frOBJ «!«/«/?.] Soil
manure.

Not iifed.

CoMro'suRE. «./ [from cow/o/f.]
I. The aft of composing or inditing.
Their own formb are not like to be fo found, or
COmprehenfivc of the nature of the duty, as forms

Km^ Charles.

of publick comfcjurt,

Before thy mofl allured overthrow ?
Sbaiiffeare's Henry V,'

Made all the royal ftars recant.
Hudsiras.
Comfound, and take the covenant.
But ufclefs all, when he dcfpairing found
Catullus then did with the winds cmfound.

The form anfingfrom the difpofition of
the various parts.

Locke.
;

to

Wc cannot have a fingle image that did not
enter through the fight ; but we have the pc-.ver
of altering and comfiunding thofe images into all

the varieties of piflurc.

yiddifon'i SfiBator.

[In grammar.] To form one word from
two or more words.
Where it and Tigris embrace each other under
the city of Apamia, there do they agree of a joint
and comfoundcJ ntiBt, and are called Pifo-Ttgtis.

To compofe by being united.
Who'd be fo mock'd with glory, as to live
But in a dream of friendship ?
To have his pomp, and all what (late comfounds,
But only painted, like his varnilhM friends

With llavci that fmcU of fwcat ; fay this becomes
him
Kt his (vafofurt maft be rare indeed,
:

^\'bom thefc things cannot blenilh.

Sbakcffcjire's Timon.

6.

To adjuft a difference by fome reCeffion
from the rigour of claims.

StaUJfe&re's jintony and Ckopatra.
The duke of Buckingham fprung, without any
of congenial comfefure, to the
a
Jc"n
help, by
Ukenefs of our late fovcrcigu and laalicr. fVotton.

]

Shakcffe^re.

If there be any difcord or fuits between any of
the family, they are cemfounded and appeafed.

Bacon I New Mantis.

Cud will rather look to the inward raptures of
the mind, than to {he outward form and comffun
of the body.
Duff a.

t. Compofition ; framed difcoarfe.
Dtfcourfu 00 fach occa&ons art feldoia the

7.

Ample.
The ancient elcftrum had in it a 6fth of filver
to tbe gold, and

made a eomfound metal, as fit for
Bacon*

xnoft ufcs as gold.

To difcharge a debt by paying only

Compofed of two or
[In grammar.]
more words ; not fimple.
Thofe who arc

his

greateft

pleafed with them as beauties ;
/>c;j«rf epithets.

I

admirers, feem
fpeak of his comPope,

Compound or aggregated Floiver, in
botany, is fuch as confifts of many little
flowers, concurring together to make
up one whole one ; each of which has
its ftyle and ftamina, and adhering feed,
and are all contained within one and the
fame calyx fuch are the fun-flower and
Harris.
dandelion.
Co'mpound. »./ [from the verb.] The
mafs formed by the union of many in-

3.

:

gredients.
For prefent ufe of profit, this is the rule

:
conof the two fimple bodies ; confider
again the dignity of the one above the «ther in
ufe ; then fee if you can make a eomfound, that
will fave more in price than it will lofe in dignity
Bacon's Phyfcal Remains.
of the ufe.
As man is a eomfound and mixture uf flefh as

fidcr the price

well as fpirlt.

Soutb's Seimoni,

Love why do we one palTion call,

When 'tis a comfound of them all
Where hot and cold, where iharp and fweet,
Sfvift,

CoMPo'uNDABLE. adj. [iiom compoiitid.'\
Capable of being compounded.

CoMPo'uNDER. n.f. [from7o componnd.'\
I. One who endeavours to bring parties
to terms of agreement.

Thofe foftners, fwcetners, comfounders, and ex-

part.
Shall I, je jods

fimple fubllances.

z.

In all their equipages meet?

would to God all flrifes were well eomfounded

I

AdjuRment.

Co'm POUND, adj. [from the verb.]
I. Formed out of many ingredients; not

Watts's Logick*

combine.

To reel tlie flreets at no<m, and Hand the buftet

We here deliver,

Comfound fubftances in made up of two or more

To mingle in diiFerent pofltions

5.

This is not in ufe.

Exodus XXX.

Raleigh's Hiftory of tbe fTirld.

Crejbaiv.

Tfpifle.

To determine.

Whofocver amfoundcti any like it, (hall be cut

attends thofe eomfounded ones.

Frame ; "make ; temperament. '

chymical medicines into the prefcirt pradice.

We

It will be difficult to evince, that nature does
nAt make decompounded bodies ; 1 mean, mingle
together fuch bodies as are already confounded of
eJemSntarj', or rather of fimple ones.
Boyle's SciflUal Clymiji.
The ideas, being each but one finglc pcrcep tioo,
are eafier got than the more complex ones ; and
therefore are not liable to the uncertainty which

4.

ParacelfuS and his admirers have eomfounded
W'ith the Galeniits, and brought a mixed ule of

Subfcribed by the confuls and patricians,
Together with the feal o' th' fcnatc, what
have ccmfoumfed on. Sbaheffeare's Ccriotanuu

To COMPO'UND. "J. a. [fflm/ffOT, Latin.]
1. To mingle many ingredients together
in one mafs.
2. To form by uniting various parts.

tf^Miward' I Natural HiJIory.

J

Once more I come to know of thee, king Harry,
Jf fir thy ran'.om thou wik nnw etmpoand.

4.

Philifs.

thing.
Elmtiits of Sfetch.

FVoon the various coir^/arfi and combinations of
thtfecorpufcles t. gether, happen all the varieties of
the bodies farmed out of them.

5.

Cornwall eomfounded to furnifli ten oxen after

Michaelmas for thirty pounds.

Drytttn's 'JuveraK

But din and various clamuur, and mad rant.

is intende4 to fignify luch a certain

4.

thing on each fide.

Care^v'i Survey of Ccrnv/aU.

If thou wilt prolong
Dire iomfclaticn, forthwith reafon quits
and mifrule,
confufion
Her empire to
And vain debates ; then twenty tongues at once
Confpirc in fenfclcfs jargon ; nought is heard

order.
Hence languages arife, when, by inftltution and
agreement, fuch a ciw?/o/i<« of letters, fuchaword,

In oimpiji.r; of his face,
Liv'd a fair but manly grace.

To come to terms, by granting fome-

3.

Secrecy to words fpoke under the rofe, only
mean, in cm:fctation, from the ancient cuftom in
fympofiack meetings, to wear chaplcts of rofes.
Bmvns Vulgar Errours%

3.

3.

:

Lat.]
the aft of drinking or tippling toge-

Arrangement ; combination; mixture ;

BMir m

Here 's a fellow will help you to-morrow canfound with him by the year.
Stateffure's Meafurefor Meafure.

Compota'tion. »./. [cemfotatio,

oft'.

That feeds and breeds by a compefivrt flol'n
^eakcffcare'sTmcn.
From gen'ral excrcmfr.tsi

a.

To bargain in" the lump.

2.

to right and left the front unfold,

Mihen's FaraSJt Loft.
Peace and con-.fofurc.
Things were not brought to an extremiry : there
fecms yet to be room left for a comfofurt ; hereD'ydcn.
after there may be only for pity.

;

Th« earth 's a thief,
'

Praj but forhalfthe virtues of this wife;
Comfoundfor all the reft, with longer life. Drydai.

ther.

1'here, as his.dicxn foretold, a cait he found,
ThfC cuiied (iinfofi fotth to dung the ground.

poverty again prevails.

!

That all may fee, who hate us, how we feelc

We alfo have great variety oi corrfojli and foils,

\iM native

H'm^ Charles.

an happy cmfojure.

or

remitted.
They were, at hft, glad to cornfmni for his bar*
Clarcnikn.
commitment to the Tower.

To whom the virgin majcfty of Eve,

paper.

flirubs,

It has for before the thing accepted

calmnefs ; tranquillity.

As one who loves, and fome unkindnefi meets,
With fweet auftcre f»i^»rf thus replied. Milioit.
The calmeft and fereneft hours of life, when the

CO'MPOST. »./ [Ft. cimpofitum.'Li.i.']

planted

Tv C0MPo'uNl>. «r. «.
1. To come to terms of agreement, tr
abating fomething of the iirft demand.

ffjirfi <m tbt Mind.

7. Sedatcnefs ;

manj who makes the imprefiion upon

Water young

Atwbury.

pofurtl.

Co«po'siTiVB.<j<//. [from compofe.'\ Compounded ; or, having the power of compounding.
Dicl.
CoMPo'siTOR. tt./. [from re»/a/i.] He
that ranges and adjufts the types in
printing ; didinguifhed from the prefl'-

'

COM

COM

COM

!

be cries, my debts eomfound f
Gay.

pedient-mongers, who (hake their heads foftrongly.
Snuift.

i.

A

COW

COM
A niingler

*.

;

To comprife ; to include

j

His hand unftainM, his uncorrupted hejrt.
His c^mprehenji'vc'iiz^i \ all intcrells weigh'd.
All £ura>pe fav'd, yet Britain not betray'd.
Popci Epijlfei.

to contain ;

to imply.
1 ( thrrc be any ot}i« commandment, it U briefly
towfrchcndcd in this faying, namely. Thou (halt
love thy neighbour as tbyfelf.
-Rem. xiii. 9.
It would be ridiculous to grow old in the lludy
of every necciriry thing, in an art which cmtf^re-

hntdi fo many feveial parti.

2. Having the quality of comprifing

tion of heroic writing, /bould therefore condemn
the pleafure which others receive from it, becaufc
they cannot r«/rtrr^«r;«d it.
Drytiin.

;

So

fo [oviprtkErJivCj fo

diffufive,

Fr. comprebenfibilis , Lat.]

Intelligible; attainable

conceivable by the underllanding.
The horizon lc:s the bounds between the enlightened and dark parts of things, between what
is and what is not ^^mf'rfhcnfihU by us.
hochc.

z. Poflible to be comprifed.
L'-ft this f^rt of kn'»vvltdge Ihould (ctm to any
not camprfhtnjihle by axiom, we will fet dowr. louie
heads of it*
Bacan,

Comprehe'nsibly. adv. [from comprehenfibU.'\ With great power of (ignifica-

underftanding ; fignificantly ;
with great extent of I'enfe. Tillotfon
feems to have ufed comprehenjiblj for
tion or

catholick a

monly ufci very comprcbn^ly, fo as to fignify all
religion and virtue.

Tilktftn.

Co mprehe'nsion. »./. [comprehenfio, Latin.]

The a£l or quality of comprifing or

1.

containing ; inclofion.
In the Old Teftanicnt there it a clofe ctmpreNew an open difcovery
of the Old.
Ih'.kcr.
Thecompnbettjisit of An idea, regards all efTcntial
modes and properties of it ; fo body, in i:s ccmpre^
bnfiai, talus in folidity, 6gare, quantity, mobility.
btnjiin of the New, in the

W../.'i'j Lcgkk.

Summary; epitome;

2.

abftraft ;

comp'^ndiom
abridgment in which much is

comprifed.
If

we would draw a Ihort abftrad of human

happinefs, bring together all the various ingrcdientsof it, and digefl them into one prefcription,

we mud at lad fix on this wife and religious aphorifm in my text, at the fum and cpmfrebtnjion of
Rogrr:.

all.

5.

Knowledge; capacity; power of the
mind to admit and contain many ideas
at once.

You give no proof of decay of your judgment,
and i<mfrtbtnji(,n of all things, within thccompafs
of aa humin underllanding.
Dryden,

A

trope or figure, by
4. [In rhetorick.]
which the name of a whole is put for a
part, or that of a part for the whole, or

a definite number for an indefinite.
Harris.

Comp«ehe'nsive.

adj.

[from compri-

f,end.]
J.

Having the power to comprehend or
underlland many things at once.
He muft have been a man of a mod wonderful
tTmfrihntfme nature, becaufc he has taken into the

compafi of bis Canterbury Talcs the various man-

make gold and water, and all other bftmuch rarer as he pleafcs fo that light
;

againft another.

We tried whether heat would, notwithftanding
fo forcible a comprtjfurt, dilate ir,

Serxom.

BoyWs Spring of the A'tr^

[from (omprehetifi'ue.'\ In acomprchenfive manner
Comprehe'nsiveness. n. f. [rrom comThe quality of including
prcht7!fi've.\
much in a few words or narrow compafs.

To CoMPRi'tJT. v. It. \comprimere, Lat.]
To priirt together It is commonly taken, in

Sprnlt'i

tunity of charity.

Comprehe'ksively. adv.

Compare the beauty and ovpnhcrjinjcrjcfi of
legends on ancient coins, yi.ii.il. on ylncUnt Medal;.

;

law, for the deceitful printing of anotlier's copy,
or b:iok, to the prejudice of the rightful proprietor.
Phillips's mrld of IVords.

"

To CoMPRi'sE. v. a. \_compreiidre, compris,
French.]

Pope's Odyjfcy.

Thcrt was'in the iHand of lo a young girlri»wprrjftd by a genius, who delighted to alTociate with

Ppi,

the mufes.

Co'mpress. w./. [from the verb.] Bolfters
of linen, by which furgeons fuit their
bandages for any particular part or pur-

CoMPROB a'tion. »./.

I applied an intercrytttnt about the ankle and
upper part of the foot, and by comprcji and bandage
it

up.

the quality of admitting to
be brought by force into a narrower
compafs ; as air may be comprefFed,
but water can by no violence be reduced to lefs fpace than it naturally oc-

That is only elleemcd a legal teftimony, which
mouths of at lead

two witneifes.

Broiun.

CO'MPROMISE. n.f. \compromiJ[um, Latin.]
I.

prellible ;

cupies.

\_comproBo, Lat.]

receives comprohaiioti from the

H^ifanan.

CoMPRESsi bi'lity. ». /. [from comprejjsble.'\
The quality of being com

;

Proof; atteftation.

^incy

pofe.

To contain; to comprehend

to include.
Neceffity of fliortnefs caufeth men to cut off
impertinent difcourfes, and to compr'ijt much matter in few words.
Hooker.
Do they not, under doSrine, comprehend the
fame that we intend by matters of faith ? Do not
they, under difcipline, comprijc the regimen of the
church ?
Hooter.
*Tis the polluted love that multiplies
But friendlhip does two fouls in ohe comprip,
Rojcommcn.

To force intt) a narrower compafs ; to
fqueeze together.
2. To embrace.
Her Neptune eyed, with bloom of beauty bicft.
And in his cave the yielding nymph ccmpiefi.

dreficd

comprehoifi'uely
Th- wordi wifdom and righteoufnefs are com-

as

may And a ready palfage through traefpttrent i\ii»Knunn.
ftances.
Compre'ssure. n. f. [from comfin/s.]
The aft or force of one body preffing

1.

by the mind;

and yet not'bc capable of

may doubclcii, by the fame

lu-pottiefis,

dies,

Comprehe'nsible. ai//. \_cmifrehenfible, To COMPRE'SS. v. a. \compieJfui, Lat.]
I.

fo rare,

comprc^.an by force,

grace is charity, that whatever time is'theopportunity of any other virtue, that time is the oppor-

;

to conceive.
Rome was not better by her Horace ta-ught.
Than we are here to com^cbntd his thought.
Wdler.
'Tis unjttii, chat they who have not the Icaft no-

much

compendious ; extenfive.

Vrydtnt Ditfrejncy.

To contain in the mind; to underiland

2.

water may be

Dryiais Kii'fo, Prrfacf.

Latin]
1.

He that fliall find out an hypofhefis, T»y wTiIt*

lien «ni! hmnours of th: whole Engliflinition in
his age ; not a finale charafker has efcapcd liim.

one wTio mixes TjoJIes.

Tc COMPREHE'ND.-z/.a. [com^rthendo

Compromi/e is a mutual promife of two
or more parties at difference, to refer
the ending of their controvcrfies to the
arbitrement or equity of one or more
Co-well.

arbitrators.
z.

A compaft or bargain, in which fome
conceffions are made on each fide.
Wars have not wafted it, for warr'd he hath

Compre'ssible.

not
adj. [from comprefs.'\
But bafely yielded, upon compronifi.
Capable of being forced into a narwhich
his anceilors atchicv'd with blows.
That
rower compafs ; yielding to "prcfTure, fo
!>bakejpeare's Riihard II.
as that one part is brought nearer to To Co'mpromise. v. a. [irom the noun.]
another.
to adjult a compaft by
1. To compound
Their being fpiral particles, accounts for the
mutual conwffions: as,/^^jicorapromifed
their being fpherical particle^,
elafticity of air
the affair at a middle rate.
which gives free f afTage to any heterogeneous mat2. In Shakefpeare it means, unufually, to
ter, accounts for air's being ccmpnJjlbU.
;

;

Cbfym^s Phikjophica/ Pr}rdp/tr.

Compre'ssiblen ESS.
prejUible.'\

clofe.

«.

/ [from

CO/.;

Capability of being prefTcd

Dia.

Com p re's SI ON. n. f. [row/r^^a, Latin.]
The aft of bringing the parts of any
body more near to each other by violence ; the quality of admitting fuch an
effort of force as may compel the body
comprefled into a narrower fpace.
Whenever a folid body is prc(Ted, there is an
inward tumult in the parts, fceking to deliver
themfclves from the cotnprtjju/n ; and this is the
caufe of all violent motion.
Bmon.
The powder in (hot, being dilated into fuch a
flame ascndureth not citnpreffion, moveth in round,
the flame being in the nature of a liquid body,
Bacm.
fometlmes recoiling.
Te^rs are the cffcfts of the comprfjjlan of the
the
dilatation
of
fpimoillure of the brain, upon
Baton'! Natural Ilijltry.
rits.
Merry Michael, the Cornifl) poet, piped this
upon his oaten pipe for merry England, but with
a mocking ctmpr^tH hi Normancfy. Camd, Rim.

accord ; to agree.
Laban and Inmfelf were ctmpromls'd,
That all the yearlings, which were ftreak'd and pied,
Should fall as Jacob's hire.
Shakefpearr's Mtrehatit of Venlet,

Comi'ro.misso'rial. adj.

[ from comproRelating to a compromife.

mi/e.']

Comprovi'nci AL. V. /. [from
provincial.']

con and
Belonging to the fame pro-

vince..

At the confecration of an archbilhop, all his ronprovincials ought to give their attendance.
jiyliffe's

Parergon,

COMPT. »./ [compte, Fr. computus, Lat.}
Account ; computation ; reckoning.
Your fcrvants ever
Have theirs, themfclves, and what is their;,

in

comptf

To make their audit at your highncfs' pleafure.
Still to

return your own.

Sbukeff. K,ng Jiln,

To CoMPT. V. a. [compter, French.] To
compute ; to number. We now ufe T»

Count, whicli fee,
Co'mptidue.

COM
Co'mptiblk.
countable ;

COM

[from <•»»»//.] Acrefponfible
ready to give
adj.

to gjvern, as

very csmfliltt even to the lejft finiftcr ufage.

lei's

Bacon.

•

CoMPii'LSORV. adj. [compul/oire, Fr. ]
Having the power of neceiHtaiing or
compelling.

and fome of its derivatives are written
in the fame manner.] To controll ; to

ceeding from fear, are properly compulfory aflfons ;
whii;h, in truth, are not only voluntary, but free
aflions \ neither compelled, nor fo much as phyfically ncceflitateJ.
Bramball againjl Hchhis.
K'ndly it would be taken to comply with a patent, although not compulfory,
S'tvift.

Comptro'ller. n. f. [from comptroll.\

To many lords and ladies
I was fpoke to,

with Sir Henry Guildford,
This night to be cimptnlltn. Shak. Henry VIII.

1

Bro7vns Vulgar Errourt*
have known fome fuch ill computers, as to
imagine the many "millions in ftocjcs fo much real
I

wealth.

;

bers or computation.

The treafui«r was a wife man, and a ftrifl comf^ft-

irritation.

and fixty-fivc days exaft: rom/ii/j^j tell us, that we
efcape fix hours.

mera, a chamber
one that lodges in
the fame chainber, contuberniofruitur.]
:

chamber.

Shakefpearc's King Lear.
2.

Stop up th' accefs and pafl'age to remorfe.
That no cantpan^iaus vifitings of nature

Shake my fell purpofe.

Clarijfa.

Rather I abjure all roofs, and chufe

To be a comrade with the wolf and owl.

compunc-

Repentant; forrowful ; tender.

tion.']

coaftive.

And terms compulfalory, thoi'c fiirefaiJ lands
So by his father loft.

lycoiltvarj* s

If,
inltcad of twenty-four letters, there were
tAventy-four millions, as thofe twenty-four millions

are a finite

Milton's Paraitife LoJI.

I

cular nbjcil.
Hate.
Foflibly there v/ere others who aflilted Harold,
partly out of fear and am/>ay//"tn.

Hale on Cimmon haio.

CoMPu'l-SIVE.

fo

would

combinations

all

Computa'tion. »./. [from compute.]
I. The aft of reckoning; calculation.

With what compulficn and laborious flight
This faculty is free from compulfion, ^nd fo fpontaneous. and free from determination by the parti-

number,

thereof he finite, though no: eafily computable by
arlthmctick.
Hale's Origin of Mankind.

fttifered.

Wo funk thus low

Natural Hijiory.

forcible.

Supreme of rivers

I

to the frightful brink,

Urg'd by ccmpiilfs-je arms, fnon as they reach'd.

New terror cnill'd their veins.

Philips.

The clergy would b: glad to recover their dues
by a more (hort and eompulfive method.

Sivift,

Compw'lsi VELV. adv. [from compuljive.]

Qoarv'LSOKiir.adv. [from com^ulfiirj.]

Old women have much

1.

To kno.v.
Of mufe>, HobbinrI, I nnnt no /kill
f infer s Paflorah

!<

The fum collefted or fettled by calculation.

We

pafs for women of fifty ; many additional
years are thrown into female computations of this

nature.

Addifin's Guardian.

to count.
Compute hovi much water would be requifite to
lay the earth under water.
Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
Where they did compute by weeks, yet Hill the
year was meafured by months.
Idcr en Time,
Alas
not dazzled with their noon-tide ray,
Ccmpi.te the morn and cv'ning ro the day;
The whole amount of that enormoui fame,
A tale that blends their glory with their (h.imc.

H

!

By force ; by violence.
Compu'lsiveness. II. j'. [from compulcompul fion.
jive.] Force
Compu'te.
;

thinge ; that is.

knowledge.]

Enough to me to paint out my unreft.

Sbakifpeare's Richard III.

z.

pros and cons.
To CON. V. a. [connan. Sax. to know ;
as, in Chaucer, Old nxymen connen mochil

Then, by juft computation fvf the time.
Found that the ilTue was not his.

adj.

The Danube, vaft and deep.

A

My princely father

[fTOm ccmpul/er, Fr. To COMPU'TE. -v. a. [computo, Latin.]
ccmpuljiis, Latin.] Having the power to
To reckon ; to calculate ; to number

compel ;

[abbreviated from contra, againft,
Lat.]
cant word for one who is on
the negative fide of a queftion ; as, the

pable of being numbered or computed.

violence

in an agent capable of volition,
when the beginning or continuation of any aftion
is contrary to the preference of his mind.
Lucke.
When the fierce foe hung on our broken rear.

together.

Con.

Compu't ABLE. fl(^'. [hom compute.] Ca-

!

is

dant atteftation
thefc are fo obvious, that 1 need
not be far to feek for a compurgator.
:

fweet
Coapuljioii thustranfported
Miltin'i Purad. Ltjl.
Such fwect ccmpuljian doth in mufick lie,
To lull the daughters of ncceflity.
Mili'yn.
;

a

:

The neir quarry, or chalk-pit, will give abun.

Atitton's Agoniflcs.

Latin infeparable prepofition,
which, at the beginning of words, fignilies union or aflbciation
as concourj'e,
a running together ; to convene, to come

another.

;

Sbakefptitrc'i Henry IV.
Thoughts, whither have ye led me ? with that

Coi>:pulfiott

A

footman, being newly married, defired his
comrade to tell him freely what the town faid of it.

bears his telUmony to the credibility of

If rcafonswereas plenty as blackberries, I would
give no man a rcafon on c&m^ulfion,

•

As good {,<x nothing elfe.

Compurga'tor. ».y^ [Latin.] Onewho Con.

force ; violence of the agent.

The (late of being compelled

/.

other.

Shairfpeare's Hamlet,

Cimpu'lsion. n. /. [compuljio, Latin.]
1. The a£l of compelling to fomething

2.

«.

man's veracity by the teftimony of an-

But to recover from us by ftrong hand,

a partner in any labour

Among the (laves and afTcs, thy comrades.

[compurgaiio,
prailice of juftifying any

The

Lat.]

;

He permitted them
To put out both thine eyes, and fettcr'd fend thee
Into the common prifon, tlicrc to grind

Caufing remorfe.

CoMPURC a'tion.

Which is no other,

A companion
or danger.

Sbakefpcare' i Macbeth.

CoMPu'tSAtORY. adj. [from compulfor, Compu'nctive. adj. [ftom compunSiioii.]
Lat.] Having the force of compelling;

One who dwells in the fame houfe or

1

his difljyalty to the king,
with expreHions of great comfunFilon.
Clarendon.

CoMPu'LSATiVEr.Y. ad'v. [from compulWith force ; by conftraint.
fatory.'\

Brown,

Co MRADE. n.f. [camerade, Fr. from ca-

He acknowledged

Compu'nctious. adj. [from

Wotten.

We conceive we have a year in three hundred

The ftate of being pricked by the confcience ; repentance ; contrition.

Superintendance.

Siviji,

Co'mputist. It./, [computijle, Fr.] Calculator
one Called in the art of num-

Bro^vn^s Vulvar Encurs.
2.

Comptro'llf.rship. v./. [from «/«/llic gayle for ftanncry-caufes is annexed to the
Careiu^s Survey ofCornivall.
cotnptrolUrJh'ipt

The kalendars of thcfe computers, and the ac.
counts of thcfe days, are different.

from pungc, piinBum, to prick, Latin.]
The power of pricking ; llimulation ;
This is that acid and piercing fpirit, which,
with fuch adlivity and c^mpunflicit, invadeth the
brains and noftrils of thofe that receive it.

My

trollfr.']

oner ; accountant ; calculator.

COMPlpSlCTlON. «./. [compon^ion, Fr.

The comptrotlert of" vulgar opinions

pretend tu
find out fuch a fimilitude in fome kind of baboons.
Ttmfle,
fates permit me not from hence to fly ;
Nor he, the great comptroller of the (ky.
DryJen't j^lrteiJ*

Compu'ter. n.f. [from compute] Reck-

He errcth in this, to think that anions, pro-

overrule ; to oppofe.

aberring fevcral

ways from the true and juft compute ; and calling
that one year which perhaps might be another.
Bro7vn's yulgar Errours*

he may cunputforily bring under the

worthy, is idle.

written by fome authors, who did not
attend to the etymology, for controll ;

Direftor ; fupervifor ; fuperior intendant ; governour.
This night he makes a fupper, and a great one,

divers were out in their account,

by violence.
To fay that the better dcfer»er hath fuch right

force ;

;

account; fubjefl ; fubmiffive.
Good beauties,. let m- fuftain my fcorn ; I am

To COMPTRO'LL. v. a. [This word is

CON
Though there were a fatality in this year, jrtt

In a compulfory or forcible mariner ; by

P'pe.

».

/ [computus, Lat.] Com-

putation; calculation.

2.

To ftudy
fix

;

to commit to

in the mind.

memory

;

to

It is a word now little

in ufe, c'.cept in ludicrous langu.ige.
Pretty anfwcrs
have you not been aC(5u.ainted
with goldfniilhs wives, and connd tliem out of
\

rings ?

Sbakefpcart.

Here arc your parts and I am to intreat you to
con them by to-morrow night.
Shaktfpearc's Midfummcr Night's Dream.
;

Our underttanding cannot in

this

body arrive

c'early to the knowiedgeof God, and things iuvifible, as by orderly conning over the vifible and
ff>

infci i >ur creatures.

Milton.

Shew !t him written; and, having the other alfo
wiiten in the paper, fliew him that, after he Itas
conned the firlt, and rc'iiiirc it of him.
Holder's Elements r,f Speech.

The books of which I'm chiefly lond.
Are fuch as you have whilom cunn'd.
Prior,
All this while John had canned over fuch a catalogue of hard words, as were enough to conjure
up the devil.

viriuibrot.

3-

T(,

3. 9*0

It

the fame

is

;
to keep fecret ; not to divulge ; to cover ; not to deteft.
He oft (inds mcd'cine, who his grief imparts

with ffo'voir

grh
1 can

him no thanki f'jr't, :h the nature he de-

Irvcrs it.

iibaiglfeare,

To arch over ;
concave over.

But double griefs afflift cmctj/ing hearts. Fairy iij.
Come, Catelby, thou arffworn
As deeply to e(t'c€t what we intend.
As dofcly to ciKCcal what we impart.

to vault ; to lay

Lat.]

Staicfpearc's RictartlUl.

Vlyfles bimfelf adds, he was the mcft eloquent
he knew that a word
and the moft (ilcnt of men

Of the upper beak, an inch :ind a ha!f confifteth

rati.]

Arch ;

vault.

What a romance i( the ftory of thofe impoflible
ccraiivcrjthns, and feigned rotations of foiid orbs

CUrTviUe^s Sccpjii.

fenes to be concealed.

Con c e'a l a b l e

.

rupted onvariable fucceflion.
The tto.cks affirmed a fatal, unchangeable «n-

Conce'a LED NESS. n. /. [ivom conceal.^
The ftate of being concealed privacy

Concava'tion. n, /. [ from coitca-ve.']
The aft of making concave.

CONCA'VE. a,/J.

;

Clareiidt)n.

Have you not made an univerfal fhout,
ThatTjbcr trembled underneath his banks.
hear the replication of your founds

Made in his wBCtf-rf rtiores ?

ternal

I (hall not fall f approve the fair conceit
The king hath of you. Sbakcjfeare's Henry VIII.
5. Pleafant fancy ; gaiety of imagination ;

Eiceedingly wcU read, and profited
Sbakefpeare'tlJenryW
In (Grange concealments,
Few own fuch fcniiments ; yet this concealment
derives rather from the fear of man than of any
Being above,
Glanville.

acutenefs.
His wit is as thick as Tewklbury muftvd
there is no more nuceit in him than is in a mailer.

D^a.

cor.tain

In-

of white marble
lycticn.

They have taken the imprefles of thefc (hells

CovCAVo-coNCAVE.

adj.

Ttf

Concave or

ff^^eJtvard

cave ; hollow without angles.

With hollownefs ; in fuch a manner as
difcovers the internal furface of a hoHow
fyhere.

The dolphin that carricth Arion U attcavcujly
inverted, and hath iu fpine deprelTed.

{oncth, Latin.]

Out of Conceit

tnith.

No longer

fond of.
Nof that I dare alTume to myfelf to have put
him out of conceit *zvitb it, by having convinced
him of the fantafticalncfs of it. 7Wotfon, Preface.

What hath chiefly put me out of conceit wilb
this

moving manner, is the frequent difappoint-

mcnt.

Sivift.

To Conce'it. V. a. [from the noun.] To
conceive ; to imagine ; to think ; tc

Boyle.

invulnerable.

Con-

CoNC a'vousl V. adv. [from co/ica-vous.]

Bcntley,

truth.

8.

to grant ; to let

believe.

cept us,
1.

One of two bad ways you mufV conceit me.
Either a coward, or a flatterer. Sbak.^ul, Ceeff.r.
They looked, for great matters at their hands,
in a caufe which they conctitcd to be for the liberty
Baton.
of the fubjeft.
He conceits himfelf to be (truck at, when he is

Ber.tlcy.

m F^Jfls. eONCE'IT n./. [concept, French;

[coneavus, Lat.]

opi-

S nee by a little (iudying in learning, and great
may he
find it again by harder ftudy, under humbler

The athcid, if you concede to him that foituiic
may be arr agent, doth prcfume himfelf fafe and

A

V. a.

;

favou»able opinion ;

conceit of himfelf, he has loft his religion ;

Latin.]

By expurgatory animadverfions we might ftrike
out great numbers of hidden qualities; and, having
once a conceded lilt, we might with more fafcty at•'
tempt their reafons.
Bro^vn.
This mud not be (ciic«/<i^ without limitation.

adj.

1 procured innxhtr ccnrave-etnvex plate of glafs,
ground on both (ides to the fame fphere with the
former plate.
Nemton.
concavo'ccnvex pentangular plate, part of a
that
bdongs
to the entrochu^.
flieU

T» CONCE'AL.

[concedo,

Fondnefs ;

nionative pride.

pafs undlfputed.

[from concave
Concave one way, and

Conca'vous. adj.

CONCE'DE. v.a.
To yield to admit
;

and
convex the other.
convex.]

Pope,

7.

Offers its kind concealment to a few,

Their food its infefis, and its mofs their nells.
Thmfon.

L'EJlrangt.

Sentiment, as dlftlnguiflied from imagery.
Some 10 conceit alone their works confine.
And glitt'rlng thoughts (iruck out at ev'ry line.

6.

The cteft tree

hollow on both fides.

Concavo-convex,

took him in tlic head to go off with a conceit.

fe^ual concealment of a wicked dclign, fuppofes
mankind fatis/ied that nothing but what is jud is
dirc£lcd by the principles of it.
Rogers.

not be coloured in their concavity too black.

with that ex<iuifite nicenefs, that no metal, when
melted and cad in a mould, can ever poflibly reprefent the ctncavity of that mould with greater exa£lMf« than thefc flints do tht ancaiAiiet of the (hells,
IVouliv. Nat. hijl.
wherein they were moulded.

Sbakejpeare' s Henry 1V»

While he wv^ on his way to the gibbet, a freak

Addif^n^s Frnbolder.

Hiding-place ; retreat ; cover ; (belter.
The choice of thii holy name, as the moft ef-

3,
figures

•.

The ftate of being hid ; privacy ; de-

furface of a hollow fpherical or

Niches that

Proverbi, xxvi. iz.

But let concealrr.cnt, like a worm i' th' bud.
Sbaiejp. ttv. Nigbl.
Feed on her daniafk cheek.
He is a worthy gentleman,

'

'\

fpheroidical body.

There is more hope of a fool than of him.

litefcence.
A perfon of great abilities is zealous for the good
of mankind, and as felicitous for the ccncealnunt as
the performance oi iUuHrious aftions.

[from concave.

Hollownefs.

MalLranche has an odd conceit.

As cverenter'd Frenchman's pate.
Prhr,
4. Opinion, in a neutral fenfe.
Seed thou a man wife in his own conceit f

fccrecy.
;
She n':vcr told her love ;

2,

im like it.

Conca'vity. ft./. [Uom concave.]

Sbakejpeare^ s King Eear,
Yields to the theft.
Strong conceit, like a new principle, carries all
eafily with it, when yet above common fenfe.

The aft of hiding

1,

2. Hollow.

n. /.

1 know not how conceit may rob
The treafuiy of life, when life itfelf

Locke,

\ixom. conceal.'\

I,

Burn.l'i Ttcory.

Cove a've NESS.

notion.

They were to umlergo the penalty of forgery, and

Conce'a ME NT. n.f.

Opinion, generally in a fenfe of contempt; fancy; imagination; fantaftical

3.

that conceals any thing.

under their concave furface a great deal of air,

Sbtikf^yeare^s yii

I (hall be found of a quick conceit in judgm.'nt,
and iiiall be admired.
iViJdom, viii. ji.

He

the ccrtccaler of the crime was equally guilty.

Shak.yuJiutCafar,
For his verity in love, I do think him as ton€dvc as a covered goblet, or a worm-ca'en nut.

difccrncd by every man's prefcnt conceit, without
fome deeper difcourfe and judgment.
Iloc^ker.

Diil.

obfcurity.

Sidney.

tliem.

The firft kind of things appointed by laws humane, containeth whatfoever is good or evil, is
notwithftanding more fecret than that it can be

;

Cokce'aler. h. /. [from conceal.'\

[ccKcafus, Latin.]

Hollow without angles; as, the inner
furface of an egglhell, the inner curve
of an arch ; oppofed to convex.
Thcfe grca". fragm'J'.ti falling hollow, indofcd

!

!

P'V^.

[from concaleof links ; an uninter-

CoNCATEN a'tion. ti.f.

cofmautn of caufes, reaching t5 the elicit acts of
Scuth.
man's will.

How often, alas did her eyes fay unto me, that
they loved
and yet I, not looking for fuch a
matter, had not my conceit open to underdand

adj.

Returning a lye unto his Maker, and prefumingto put off the Icarchcr of hearts, he denied the
omnil'ciency of God, whereunto there is nothing
Brmvns Vulgar Erroun.
caxeahile.

to unite in a fucceflive order.

A feries

henfion.

[from conceal. ] Capable of being concealed ; poffible to be
kept fecret, or hid.

To CONCA'TENATE. -y. a. [from catena, Lat. a chain.] To link together;

nate.'\

Sbakejpeare.
Ill laughing there ever precedeth a conceit of
fomewbat ridiculous, and therefore it is proper to
man.
Baccn^s Natural Hijlory,
2. Underftanding ;
readinefs of appre-

:

Con"camera'tioh. v./. [from concami-

il^ould

When that he bids good-morrow with fuch fpirit.

fpoke never wrought fo much good as a word ccnBttccme.
ceahd.
There is but one way I know of converCng fafcly
with all men, tfiat is, not by conceaUtig what wc
fay or do, but by faying or doing nothing that de-

of one concamerattJ hone f bended downwards, and
toothed as the other.
Gniv^i Mufeum.

To

ing:

Thf re 's iami: conceit, or other, likes him well,

;

Ti CONCA'MERATE. -v. a. [concamero.

1.

His grace looks cheerfully and fmooth this morn-

To hide

Con thanks ; an old expreflion for

te thank.

CON

CON

CON

con-

Latin.]

Conception ; thought; idea; image in

VEJirange.
not fi much as thought of.
The ftrong, by conceiting themfelves weak, are
thereby rendered as unaftivc, and confequently as

the miod.
Here the very fhcpherds have their fancies lifted
to-fo hi^h conceits, as the learned

of other nations

are content both to borrow their

names, and imi-

tati'

their cunning.

Hidney,

was, that ever their will ihould.
change or incline to remit any part of their duty,.
without fome olijctl having iorcc to avert thrir
Hahr.
conceit from God,.
Impoffiblc

it

ufclels, as if they really

were fo.

Souib's Sermons,.

Con ck' IT HO. particip. adj. [from conceit.
I.

'\

Endowed with fancy.
He was of countenance amiable, of feature
comely, aillve of body, plcafantly conceited, and
Knotl-i.

fliarp of wit..

2.

Froud;,

CON

C O -N
O ^at«valls me now that^ionanrV!^

.TrouJi fond of himfelf; opinionative;'

•2.

To have eonc-iv'J of God! or that falute.

alFefted; fantallical.
Thtre is mother extreme In ••bfcure writers,
which feme empty cmitifd heads are apt to run
into, out ot" 3 proJigality of wjrds, and a want of

Afi/j
Hail, highly favour'd, among women blell
Corcciv! of citings cle;rrly and dil>inftly in their
own naturci; conceive o( things completciy in all
their parts; eaieeive of things coroprehenfively in
all rheir proper4ics ind relations; ««tewe of things
extenfively in all their kinds ; mtceive of things
!

/•«.'«« «i ibt ClaJJicki.

fenfc.

If you think me too concdudi
Sv'-ft.
Or to paffinn ijaiclcly heated.
Whit you write of mc, would malce me more
ttr.riitui tiian

whar I fcrlbbir mv fclf.

fofe.

Ever)

man is building a feveral way, impotently

The beautenns maid, whom tit beheld, poflefs"U
Cnciiving as flie flcpt, her fruitful womb
Swell'd with the founder of immortal Rome.
AUifon.
;

Dryden,
If we conEder liow vitiooj «nd corrupt the
own
wit,
Athenians were, how tor.ceiteii of their
Bnt/cy.
fcience, and politensfs.
Coxce'itedlx-. aJ-v. [from (onteited.}

Conce'iver. «./ [from cenrei've.] One

FandfuUy ; whimfically.
ConceiicJIy drefs her, and be aiHgn'd

By you fit place for every flower and jewel
Donnt.
Make her for love fit fuel.
Conce'itedness. n.f. [itom conceited."]
Pride ; opinionativenefs ; fondnefs of

that underftands or apprehends.
Though hereof prudent fymbols and pious allegories b« made by wilisr conceivtrs, yet common
heads will fly unto fi^erllitious applications.
Brcvtni Vulgar Errouri.
Conce'nt. n. /. [loucentus, Latin.]
1.

himfelf.

pid ; without thought ; dull of apprehenfion.
Think'ft thou I am fo (hallow, fo eiitctitltfs.

To be fcduccd by thy flattery.
Skakefp. T-urn Gent. ofVtrma.

Conce'ivable. adj. [from ctncei'v^.]
1. That may be imagined or thought.
If it were polfible to cjntrive an invention,
whereby any concnvgbk wxight may be moved by
any concervabU power, with the fame quicknefs,
without other inftrument, the works of nature
<vou!d be too much fubjefl to art.

H'ilk'm,

That may be underftood or believed.
The freezing of the words in the air, in the
Northern climes, is as conciivailt as this ftrange
CUnvllU^t Sccpjli,
union.
It is not nncc'ivallt, that it fhould be indeed
that very perfon, whufe Ihape and voice it alfumed.
^ttcrbury's Serntc'ns.

Cokce'ivableness. ». /. [from concei'vable.] The quality of being conceivable.

Did.

To CONCE'IVE. a/, a.

[conctvoir,

Fr.

concipere, Lat.]

To admit into the womb

1.

;

to form in

the womb.
I was (hafen in ini<}uity, and in fin did my
Pfalm li. 5.
mother concave me.
2. To form in the mind ; to imagine.
Nebuchadnezzar hath conceived a purpofe ag.iin(l

'Jeremiah.

you.

Thii mao nnce'rved the duke's death ; but what
was the motive of that felonious conception, is in
Wotlon.

the clouds.

To comprehend

3.

;

to underftand : as, he

conceives the lu hole Jyjietn.
Thi< kifs.if it durft fpeak,
W'ould ftretch thy fiiiits up into the air
Sbahj'f. King Lear,
Oinceive, and fare thee well.
:

To think; to be of opinion.

•4.

If you coin^>arc my gentlemen with Sir John,
you will hardly conceive tiim to have been bred in

the fame climate.

Hviifl.

To Conce'ive. f
I .

.

».

'io think ; to have an idea of.
Tlie griev'd commoM

Hardly ctnterve of mc : kt it be nois'd,
That, through our intercefiion, this rcvokemeot
Skikejfeart't Uciuy Vlll.
Ani pardon tomes.

is

rather to be afcribed to the ante-number than to
Bacon,
the entire number.

2.

Confiftency.
Reafons borrowed from nature »nd the fchoolmen, as fubfervient mediums, carry a mulickand
concent to that which God hath faid in his word.
Vr. Maine.
'Tis in cmcent to his own principles, which
accompany
to
intrinfick
worth,
allow no merit, no
jitterbury.
one ftate more than another.

Circular revolutions in emcentriik orbs about the
fun, or other central body, coulc ia no wife.be
attained without the power of the Divine arm.
Bentley^s Sermons,

Co NC e'p T A c L E n.f. [conceptacufum, Lat.]
.

That in which any thing is ooniained-j
a veSeU
There is at this day refident, in that huge <o»ceftacle, water enough to effeft Cuch » deluge.

Wood-ward's Natural Hijiory, Preface.

intelligible ; capable to be underftood.
Some of his attributes, and the mani'eftations
thereof, are not only highly dcleSable to the intelT
lcSi\e faculty, but arc mort foitable and eafily

ann^tible by us, becaufc apparent in his works.
liale't Origin of Mankind.

Conce'ption. n. /. [conceptia, Latin.]
The aft of conceiving, or growing quick
1
with pregnancy.
I will greatly multiply thy forrow
t'lan i

drive into a narrow compafs ; to diive
towards the centre : contrary to expand
or dilate.

All circular bodies, that receive a concentration
of the light, muft be ftadowed in a circular manPeaebam on Draiving.
ner.

[concentrer,

Fr.

from COS and centrum, Latin.] To tend
to one common centre ; to have the
fame centre with fomething elfe.
The bricks having firft been formed in a cir-

cular mould, and then cut, before their burning,
into four quartet'; or more, the firfes afterwards
join fo clofcly, and the points concentre fo ejaftly,

that the pillars appear one entire piece.

}Vi,tton.

All thele are like fo many lines drawn from feveral objefts, that fomc way relate to him, and
Hale.
cor.centre\t\ him.

To Conce'nt RE. <v. a. To direft or contraft towards one centre.
'I'he having a part lei's to animate, will ferve to

concentre the fpirits, and make them more aAive in

Decay of Piety.
the reft.
In thee eeneentring all their precious beams
Milton.
Of facreJ influence
!

Conce'ntric AL, 7
Conce'ntrick. J
common centre.

adj,

[ concetitricus,

Lat.] Having one

If, as in water ftirr'd, more circles be
Pioduc'd by one, love fuch additions take ;
Thofc, like fo many fphetes, but one heav'n make 5
Donne.
For they arc all concentrick unto thee.
Any fubftancc, pitched fteddy upon two points,
as on an axis, and moving about on that axis, ^Ifo

dcfctibcs a circle concentrick to the axis.

bioxon'i Mechanical Exercijes.

Milton's Paradije Lofl.

In forrow forth.

The ftate of being conceived.

2.

Joy h.id the like conception in our eyes,

And, at that inftant, like a babe fprung up. Sbak.
Our own produftions flatter us it is impoflible
not to be fond of them at tlie moment of their
:

Spirit of vinegar, concentrated and reduced to its

[from concentrate,] Colleftion into a narrow fpace
round the centre ; compreffion into a
narrow compafs.

,

By thy conctpi'an; children thou diaic bring

gicateft ftrcngth, will coagulate the ferum.
jirbutbnot OK jilimentt.

Concentra'tion. «. /.

by tliy ctncep-

in forrow thou (halt bring forth children.
Genefii, iii. iSa

Thy forrow I will greatly multiply

To CONCE'NTRATE. v. a. {concentrer.
To
Ft. from con and centrum, Lat.]

Conce'ivably. adv. [from concei<val>le.] To Conce'ntre. nj. n.
In a conceivable or intelligible manner.

rings, like thofeof an onioll about the firft kernel,
/Irbuienot en Diet,

Conce'ptible. adj, [from concipio, conharmony; concord
ceptum, Lat.] That may be conceived ;

in numbers, for conducii^ to conunt of note.*,

as claim uiider their own pretences, partiality and

tiitcdtuiiKp make them give the pre-eminence.
Coliler on Pritie.

C»nce'itless. adj. [from conceit,'] Stu-

Concert of voices ;
of found.

Tfev/iov'i Oftiekt.

taiices.

It is to' be con£dered, that whatfoever virtue is

When men think none woithy efteem, but fuch

2.

Ctmjti.

dtlJik.

cmctiitd oj his own model and his own materials.

waves excited thereby continue fome time to arile
in tlje place where the ftone fell into the watov
and are propagated from thence into eonctnlrick
circles upon the furface of the water to great dif-

The manner of its concretion is by coneeniricat

To become prignant.
The flocks fliould conceive when they came to

With ff/"before the objea of conceit.

3.

Want's hogick.

ordcrlv, or in a proper method.

2.

If the cryftalline hemoJir had Keen ttmmtricJ
to the fclerodes, the eye would not have admitted
a while hemifphere atone view, fay on tbeCreat,
If a ftonc be thrown into ftagnating water, the

Dryden's Bufrejncy,

conception,

Notion ; idea ; image in the mind.

3.

As c oneepti'jns are the images or refemblances of
things to the mind within itielf, in the like manner
are words or names the marks, tokens, or refemblances of thofc conceptions to the minds of theia
South' s Sermons,
whom we converfc with.

Confult the acuteft poets and fpeakers, and they
moft admired conceptijm, were fuch as darted into their minds, like
fudiien flalhcs of lightning, they knew not how,
nor whence ; and not by any certain confequence,
or dependence of one thought upon another, as it
Soutb's Servtont.
is in matters of ratiocination.
To have right conctftions about them, we mull
to
the
inflexible
unJerftandings
natures
bring our
and unalterable relations of things, and not endeavour Co bring things to any preconceived notions
Locke.
of our own.

will confefs tliat their quickeft,

Sentiment* ; purpofe.
Thou but rcmcmbei'ft mc of my own eonce/eion.

4.

*ave perceived a moft faint negledt of late ; which-

have rather blamed as my own jealous curiofity,
han aiavery pretence and purpofe of unkindnefs.
Sbakeff-care' s King Lear,
Pleafe your highncfs, note
this point
conc^tion
in
His dangerous
Not friended by his wiflj to your high perfon.
His will is mort malignant, and it ftretches
Beyond you to your friends. Shakejp, Henry VIII,
5.

Apprehenfion knowledge.
And as if bcaltscimceiv'd what reafon Were,
And that conception ftiould diftinftly fliow
They (hould the name of rcafonable bear
;

For, without reafon, none could reafon know.
Vavies.

6.

Conceit ; fentiment ; pointed thought.
He is too flatulent fomctimes, and fonietimea
many times unequal, and atmoft always
too dry
;

forced ; and, bcjldcs,

is full of conceptions, points

of

CON

CON

of cpigrinii ind witticVfms ; all which »re not
only below the dignity of heroick vcrfc, but contrary fo its nature.
DrydeKs "Jn-ver.at, DedUau:v.

tious ptaflices,

CON

which might well defcrvt the jni-

madverfion of our government. Addif.
Frcehcld.-r.
Heathen emperor faid, if the gods were offended, it was their own cmcirr:,
and they were

Coi.ce'ptious. adj. [cojicepttim, Latin.]
Apt to conceive fruitful ; pregnant.
C6mmon mother,
£nfear thy fertile aod cncefrkhs womb ;

able to vindicate themfelves.

;

is no trifling ccmcrr., to be
performed
any carclcfs and fuperficial manner.

in

2.

S-wifi.

Bieligion

_

Let it no more bring out to ingrateful man.

Intereft ;

engagement.

No plots th' alarm to his retirements give

[conceptum, Latin.]
Capable to conceive.

ixrv

Drydcti.

When we fpeak of the conflagration of the world,
thefe have jjo concern in the qucftion.

In hot climates, and where the uterine parts exceed in heat, by the coldncfs of this fimple they

/•

""• _

Mdijon's Steamor.
4. Paflion ; afFeftion ; regard.
Ah, what coitccrm did both your louls divide
Vour honour gave us what your love denied. Dryd.
O Marcia, let me hope thy kind concerns,

urn the articles of our faith, who can aflure us ?
IhcUr.
Count CUu~aio may hear; for what 1 would
fpealc of cancenu bim.
Skakeffcart.

!

And gentle willies, follow me to battle.

Cracious thing!

Thou haft reveal'd

;
thofe chiefly which csnctrn
Juft Abraham, and his feed.
MUttr's Par. Loji.
This place anctrnt not at all the dominion oi
one brother over the other.
Lccki.

vM-i

to touch

Co.vce'rneoly. ad-v. [from cc>,cin,.\
With affeftion; with intereft.

would not

The caufe were known to them it mofl cmcirrs.

They had moiepifitively and ancemedh
his caufe, than they were

Shakeffeare.
Our wars with France have aftefled us in our

done.

moft tender interefls, and ancernid us more than
thofe wth any other nation. j4M/cn en lie
ff^ar.
eftablifti his authority on this fide.

Mdy'mim Italy.

The more the authority of any ftation in fociety

_

Communication of defigns ; eftabliftiment of meafures among thofe who are
engaged in the fame affair.
Ail thofe difcontents, how

anfcn from the want of a due

ruinous foever, have

communication and

concert.

c

/-.

Oivtft.
AClymphony; many
2. A
performers play«.

ing to the fame tune.

Ihe ancients had no higher recourfe
than to
nature, ts may appear by a

Conce'rtative.

I

5^„„.

None can demonftrate

whitifli

Above the reft two goddefTes appear,
..

loves a nation, crcmi
itfdf to own and afllrt the intereft of
religion, by
Wafting the fpoilers of religious, perfonslnd
it

or interefted; affair; bufinefs;
intereft.
To mix with thy concernments I delift

places.

Henceforth, nor too much difapprove
my own.

South' i Sermor.i.

_,

Whatever paft aflions it cannot reconcile,
or
appropriate to that prclent felf by
confcioufnefs, it
can Le no niore»n«r(;f</ in than if they
had never

•

.

Tobring the king's comernments in.
Huditras.
Yet when we 're fick, the deftor 's
fctcht
in

Lccki
They think the.-nfelves out of the reach of
prn-'
Tidencc, and no longer ctnctrntd to
folicit his favour,
D
;

hafte,

To concern him/elf.
be bufy.

:

ONCE RK. »./^

of

D
Propofinons
,-

This manner of expof.ng the

private conc.rn, rf
and fatrific-ng the fecrets of
the d^ad to
«fc. cunofity of the living, is
one of

Vol. J.

thofe licen-

r

•

...
which extend only

Attiriurf
to the

prelem

fmail, comp.ifed with thofe that
have influence upon our cveilafting cc!:c.r,7ments.

n

:.

.

,

.

„

fKiiis on the Mind.

K,eIation ; influence.
imports

No lefs than the king's life and honour.
I

Dcniam's Sophy.

<
Tj
/.I
Me jufily
feirs a peace with mt- would
prove
Of lii eoncernmeni to his haughty love.
•

I

The cncejion of thefe charters was-in a parlij.

mentary way.

A grant

2.

I

;

Hale's Common Laio
of England.
the thing yielded.

mi counted myfelf undiminilhcd by my lavgcit
by them I might gain the love of
my

concejjions, it

When

,.

K.ngChctrlel

,

a lover becomes fatisrted
bv fmall compliances, withuut further purfuits,
then exnea to
find popular aflcmblics content
with fmall concef.

S^ift.

rJ"""Conce
ssionary. adj. [from cpnceffisn.\

Given by indulgence or allowance.
Concb'ssively. adv. [from conceJpoH.-\
By way of conceflion ; as, yielding

Drjden't Indian Smftror.

;

not controverting by aflumption.
Some ha^e written rhetorically and

concelfttieh •

not controverting, but affuming
the oueftion'
which, taken as granted, .idvantaged
the illation.

Con c H

.

»./. [concha, Latin.]

A ftiell

;

a

fea-fticll.

He fuinilhes her clofec firft, and tills
The crowded (lielves with larliies of Ihcl.'s •

Mi, orient pearls, which from the conch he

And all the fpatkling ftones of various hue. drew.

o
Conchoid, at./ ™,
The name of a curve.
CoNci LIAR. adj. [conciliutn, Latin.] Re'

Si-, 'tis 01 near concernmrr.t,
and

endure.

faroilirs,

no

life, are

[from the verb]
Eufinefs ; affair : confidered
as relatine
*
to fome one.

Let early care thy main cot,t,rn,
fccure,
Things of lefs moment may delays

rri)

Our fpiritual mtereftj, and the great
r.«frr,im.,«i
of a future (»,ne, would doubtlcfs
recur often.

Urjden,

^

is

'

wife.

to

to the pio-

..

g^^^^
He that 18 Wife in the affairs and concermnenis

other men, but carelefs and
negligent of his own,
that man may be faid to be
buly, but he

Bc.ng a layman, I ought not to
have r«,«r«^
yf'f with fpeculations which belong

C'

.Ifo where

^ happy.

to

Ditkam

To interme<',.lle

the laft. Denl'arn.

When my concernment takes up ju, nioie
room
or compafs than myfelf, then,
fo long as 1 know
where to breathe and to exift, I
know

In one cnmprefling engine I Ihut
a frarrow,
without forcing any air in
and in an hour the
;
bird began to pant, and be
cmimtd, and in lefs
than an hour and a half to be fick.

The aft of granting or yielding.

1.

.

Leaving our great ccneerrment to

to make uneafy.

[ concert ati'vus,

CONCE'SSION. ,./ [..^.#,. Latin.]'

P™1^[-

Milton's

Agoniftes.
Ti
/I.
L
^ r
This
fliews how ufeful you have
been,

been doi^e.

To dillurb

fuch an

Conce'rnment. n.f. [from concern.-]
I. The thing in which we are
concerned

Drydln's yEneid.

,

where

is

Til/otfon, Preface.

Ccncernd for each ; here Venus, Juno there.

_Providence,

that there

adj.

Latin.] Contentious; quarrelfomc
; recriminating.
2);'^

£*^,^_

''"' "P°" "fti"""iy. I am free
f
!f ^"T"'" '
trom
all doubt ccncemirtg it.

Byle on Ct/ouri.

Strife ; contention.

difcourferMrermV; this

m Strabo.

point

found by enquiry, at a perfon's cen.

cerned for him, that the4ittle tumours left

I.

1.

Roreri't Srrmcns.
;

fpecki behind them.

S-

Concert. »./. [from the verb.]

to engage by intereft.
I knew a young negroe who was
fick of the

.

To intereft

imall pox :

4.

Mark how, already, in his working brain.
He forms the vzW-concerted fcheme of inilchi-.f.

Concerta'tion. n.f. [ccncertatio, Lat.l

_,

_

To fettle; to contrive; to adjuft.

There is not any thing more fubjeft
to errour,
than the true judgment concerning
the power and
forces of an eftate.

IS extended, the more it unctrm
pubiick happinefe
that it be committed to men fearing God.

3.

2.

this

word, originally a participle, has
before
a noun the force of a prepofition.]
Relatmg to ; with relation to.

It much concerns them not to futfer the
king to

To fettle any thing in private by mutual communication.

nf
J
Liarcndon.

(wONCE RNiNc./r/v». [from conci-rn:

Locke.

mong themfelves.]

\vedded
before underftool to have

t

f~^

„

_.

r. CONCE'RT. 'v.o. [concerter,
French;
from concert are, Latin, to prepare
them
ielves for fome pubiick
exhibition, or
performance, by private encsunters
^a-

jidJifon's Cato.

.

them not, as the country is naw managed
: where
the plough has no work,
one family can do the
bufinefs of lifty,
Stvift

nearly ; to be of importance to.
I

.

j

r^,

Clarendon,

eraotiOH of mind.

If It carry w,th it the notion
of fomething extraordinary. It apprehenfion
and concernment accompany It, the idea is likely to fink
the deeper.

1.

Why all this concern for the poor >' We w.nt

,

;

While they are fo e.iger to dertroy
the fame of
others, their ambition is
manifeft in th^W concern-

Rofcmmm.
The mind is ftunned and dazzled amidil that

variety of objefls : (he cannot app)y
herlclf to
ttofe things which arc of the utmort
cincon to

g^if

.

.

Explain'dby unaft'efted eloquence.

Exclude the ufe of natural rcafoning about tlic

;

ptelcnce.
6-a
rr
f allion

Myllerious fccrets of a high cer.cern,
And weighty truths, folid convincing fenfe,

fenfe of holy fcripture, concerning tlic articles of
our faith J andthen, tTjat the fcripture doth cm.

as matters of

great ctmcernmtnt to mankind.

S- Interpofition ; regard ; meddling.
He married a daughter to the earl, without
inw
otl.er appr,A.,rion of her
father, or concernn-.en, in
It, than fuffermg
him and her to come into hi.

Importance ; moment.

3.

men, one
^^j^^

amongft another.
4. Importance-; moment.
I look upon
experimental truths

Burntt'i Tbary tftbt Earth,

may be reduced into a <:cn:ef>tivc conilitution.
Brifwn's yalgar Emurs.
To CONCE'RN. 1/. a. {coaarner, French;
cmcerno, low Latin.]
1. To relate to ; to belong to. -

To afFeft with fome paflion

;

'Tis all mankind's concern that he fliouldlive.

Cokce'ptive. a/(/.

bufinefs.

The great .or.arnment of men is witli

R'-gn.

Skakijpfare^i Timottw

2.

3. rntercourfe ;

A

,.

Dryden's Fahltt.

lating to a council.
Having been frameu by men of primitive

fimpli.

city, in free and conciliar
debates, without any

bitious regards.

Baker', Rejleahm On

3 B

am-

Ltarmng.

To

'

ehdt God's love or hatted to tny perfon, by any

r« CONCI'LIATE. -v. a. [conallo, Ltt.]
To gain ; to procure good will ; to reconcile.
It via iccoonttd i philtre, or plants that eimciBrrwu'i Vulgar Emurt.
liatt affcrtion.

Co N c L a't o
I

1

I

To decide

to determine : that is, to
Jhut or clofe the difpute.
Vouch, eie it fees the world, here ftudies reft;
And age, returning thence, conclude) it beft. Dryd,
But no frail man, however great or high.
Can be ondudcd bleft before he die. Mdij. Ovid.

4.

The aft of gaining or reconciling. Didl.
CoNCiLi a'tor. n. f. [from concilialeJ]
One that makes peace between others.
CoNCl'l.I ATOR r. adj. [from conciliate.]

To end

concio,

Latin.]

two certain ; the one a fentence of judicial deci-

I

Sbak/fl>rart' s Richard III.
this part with the fpcccS of a

will nnclude

'Ihe ecnclufiin of experience, from the time paft

multitude

Hoicel.

If therefore they will appeal to revelation for
their creation, they muft be concluded by it.
Halt's Origin of Mankind.

cut, Latin.]

Brief; (hort ; broken into fhort periods.

To perform the laft aft of ratiocina-

1.

tion ;

to colleft the

i'

The blind man's relations import no neceflity of 4.
concluding, that

though black was the roughcft

J

There is fometHng

To fettle opinion.

2.

Bacon's Ne^o Atlantis.

Can wc conclude upon Luther's inftability as our
no
way fundamental, an enemy writes that he had
Aiterhury.
fome doublings ?
_
I quell ion not but your tranflation will do h>nour to our country ; for I conclude of it already

author has done, becaufe, in a fmgle notion

[concitalio, Latin.]

The aft of ftirring up, or putting in motion.

The revelations of he.iven are conceive! by im-

from thofe performances.
3.

.^ddtj'on to

4.

A private apartment.

And all around wore nuptial bonds, the ties
Of love's alTurance, and a train of lyes.

2.

Thc.robm in which the cardinals meet;

That, made in lurt, conclude in perjuries.
Dryden's Fables.

We'll tell when 'tis enough.
Or if it wants the nice concluding bout.

King.

Shaleffeare.

Conclu'dency. n.f, [from concludent.]

It Was faiJ of a cardinal, by reafon of his apialent likelihood Jo fte p into St. Peter's chair, that

Confequence ; regular proof ; logical
deduftion of reafon.

Forthwith a cetulavt of the godhead meets,

Where Juno ii> the Ihlning fcnatc fits.

To CONCLU'JDE.

-v. a.

Giirfh.

[concludo, Latin.]

To fhut.

1

The very perlbn of Chrift, therefore, for ever
and the felt- lime, was only, touching bodily fubcmluj/d within the jirave.
Hooker.
2. To include ; to comprehend.
Cod hath ccncludfd them all in unbelief, that
he might have mercy upon alt.
Rt,mani, xi. 31.
iVarce,

J.

To col left by ratiocination.
The providences of CioJ are promifcuoufly adfa that no man can i.nminillcrej in this world
j

6. In Shakefpeare it feems to fignify ftlence

confinement of the thoughts.
Your wife OQavia, with her modcft eyes
And ftill conclujhn, flj.nll acquire no honour,
Demuring upon me.

1.

A clofe alFcrably.

can fpcak no longer ; yet I will ftrain myfelf
which (hall be
Hmiel.
my ccnclufcn.

CoNCLu'siVE.

Conclu'dent. adj. [from conclude.] Dccifive

;

ending in jull and undeniable

confequences.
Though thcfc kind of arguments may fcem
more obl'cure, yet, upon a doc confideration ol
them, they are highly confcijuiAtial and concludcnl
Hale's Origin of Mankindto my purpofe.

Conclu'dingly. ad'v.

[from conclude.]

With uncontrovertible evidence.
Examine whether the opinion you meet with,
repugnant to what you were formcily cmbued
with, be cinjudingly dgjnanftraud or not. Digty.

+

[from

conclude.]

The agreeing votes of both houfes were not by
any law or tenfoafonclufve to my judgment.
King Charles.
The laft dlftate of the underftanding is not
always abfolutc in itlclf, nor conclujive to the will,
yet it produces no antecedent nor external neccfBramhalfs Anjwer to Hohhcs.
fity,
They have fecret reafons for what they fecm to
do, which, whatever they are, they muft be equally
Rogers.
conclufive for us as they were for them,

Judgment concerning things to be known, or
the ncglcft and coucludency of them, ends in deciH"''fion.

Sbak. Antony and Cleopatra.

adj.

Decifive ; giving the laft determination
to the opinion.

1.

To end.

or, the affembly of the cardinals.

the laft part.

I

Finally to determine.
They humbly fue unto your excellence.

Shaktfitire.

Dia.

;

to breathe out this one invocation,

Fofe.'

Between the realms of England and of France.

An outcry or fhout of many together.

3.

The end

5.

To have a goodly peace concluded of

•iONCLAMA'TiON.Jf./ [coticlamatio, Lat.]

in two cmchvci he went in pope, and came out
^
Sculh't iiermons.
again cardinal.

Her phyfician tells me.
She has purfued conclufons in6nite
Of eafy ways to die. Skat. Antony and Cleopatra.
We pradlife likewifc all conclufions of grafting and
inoculating, as well of wild trees as fiuit trees.

jlrhuthnot's Hiftory of Jubn Bull.

fcience.

Sw'ift.

experi-

ment.

Boyle en Colours.
infamous in the very at-

tempt : the woild will conclude I had a guilty con-

ting off; excifion ; dellruftion.

tor.

made my home.
The event of experiments ;

colours, therefore white fiiould be the fmoothdl.

Giving niorc fcope to Mezentius and Laufus,
that verfion, which has more of the majofty ot
Drydin.
Virgil, has lefs of his conciferefs.

chaaic the holy tcnclavc for their loves ;
They've fcilc me fuch a man 1 would have wirti'd

Let us hear the ccnclufM of the whole matter :
Fear God, and keep his commandments; for this
EccliJ. xii. i 5.
is the whole duty of man.
I have been, reafoning, and in concluftcn have
thought it beft to return to what fortune hath

Dar/ie?,

ty ; fhortncfs.

1

tative deduftioQ.

;

Cosci'sENEss n.f. [from concife.] Brevi-

[conclave, Latin.]

The

to

Nor how, nor whence, nor where, nor what (he is

BiKme fit the Odyffrf.

Cp'wctAVE. n.f.

confequence ;

Build fond conclufons on thofe idle grounds ;
Then doth it fly the good, and ill purfuc. Dav'sts.
I only deal by rules of art,
^
Such as are lawful, and judge by
Hudilras,
Csnclufons of aftrology.
It is of the nature of principles, to yield a cciicluTulotfoM.
fun diftercnt from themfelves.
He granted him both the major and the minor;
Freeholder.
Aidifon's
but denied him the cor.clufion.
clofe ; the laft refult of argumen3.

When boldly (he ccncluda of that and this
When of herfelf (he can no judgment give.

may

mediate illumination of the foLl ; whereas the deceiving fpirit, by ancitaliin of liumours, produces
Brnun.
tonccited phantafmes.

And maiTyinj divers principles and grounds.
Out ol their match a true ccnclufon brings, Davie:,
Then doth the wit

determine.
For why fliould we the bufy foul believe.

ces.

Concita'tion. n.f,

Atterbury.

To Conclu'de. v. n.

IValts en the M'wJ.

CoNCi'sios n.f. [f5?rf//a»!, Latin.] Cut-

of the

frurtrate the authority

rity of one legally fummoned.

Coi»ci'sELY.«</a'. [from rone//*.] Briefly;
Ihortly ; in few words ; in ihort fentenUiyfTei here fpeaks very cenc'ifcly, and he
fcem CO break abruptly into the fubjed.

(hould

He never refufed to be concluded by the autho-

The cmctft ftile, which exi-rcflelh not enuugh,

Bm

to the time prefcnt, w.U not be found and pertitft,
Bacon's fVar ivitb Spjin,

Dryden'i j^ncid.

parliairent, wherein their votes and confents were
Baccn's Hcr.ry VII.
concluded..

but leaves fomewhat to be undorftood.
JoKJm'i Difceveriis.
Where the author is obfcure, enlighcen him ;
where he is too brief and ccndfe, amplify a little,
aod fet bis notions in a fairer view,

mifed ; the confequence.

Tooblige, asbythe final determination.
The king wculd never endure that the bafe

6.

Hooker,
by a more nnivcrfal authority.
_
The colleftion from propofitions pre-

Bacon.

Their comclincfs unbcguiled the vulgar of the
old opinion the loyalifts had formerly infufed irto
[conci/us,

2.

Thefe are my theme, and how the war begau.
And how concludtd by the godlike man.

[ ccncicaatorias,

them bv their ccmicjuif-iy inveftives.

Determination; final decifion.
Ways >f peaceable conchfnn there are but thefe

1.

fion, given by authority thereto appointed within
ourli Ives ; the othtr, the like kind of fentence given

publick afTemt^lies.

CONCi'SE. adj.

Hammond.

they will do it at all.

CoNCLu'siON. n.f. [from conclude,']

to fini(h.

;

couiifellor of ftate.

CONCrN'NOUS.arf>. [concimus, Latin.]
Becoming; pleafitnt ; agreeable.
Ufed at preachings or

"Tis as ccrtainiy cinclufite from God's piefcience, that they will voluntarily do this, as that

But fo it muft be, if the king mifcarry.

/)/V?.
Relating to reconciliation.
[from concinnitas,
Lat.] Decency ; fitnefs.

a<lj.

terminable ; certain by regular proof.

;

Is it concluded he (hall be proteftor ?
It is dctermin'd, not concluded yet

5.

Conci'mnity. n, /.

Co'nciOn ATORY.

Cos CLv'sihLt. adj. [from ce/icluJe.'] De-

7WotJari.

thing that befals jiim.

[from conciliate.']

». /.

.

CON

CON

CON

2,

Regularly confequential.
._
Thofe that are not men ot art, not knowing
whether
know
cannot
fyllogifm,
of
forms
true
the
they are

made

in

right and conclujive modes and

figures.

Ljcke.

CoNCLu'sivELY. adv. [from concluftve.']
Decifively ; with final determination.
This I fpcak only to dcfire Eupolis not to fpcak
peremptorily, axccnclujively, touching the point of
poflibillty, till they have heard mc deduce the

means of the execution.

Bacon.

CoNCHj'siVENfsj. /;. /. [from conclufite.] Power of determining- the opinion ; regular confequence.
Coo-

tat'on of bodies, and is ever ««««//«»/ with poraBaitn.
fity and drynefs.
It has plealed our wife Creator to annex to fcver.il ohjcfts, as alfo to feveral of our thoughts, a
concomitant pleafure ; and that in feveral objefts,

Confideration of things to be known, 0/ thtlr
or evidence,

Ifeveral weights, cmclufivtncjtt

HaWs Origin ef Mankind.
Ti Concoa'culate. T/. ij. [from f5« and
coagulate.^

To curdle or congeal one

thing with another.

The faline parts of thofe, upon their folution
rain, may work upon thofe other fub-

ftiaces, formerly nncsaguhitd v'ith

ferent bodies are joined in one mafs.
a. [concoquo, Latin.]

To CONCO'CT. f

food to nutriment.

The working of purging medicines Cometh two
or three hours after the medicines taken ; for
that the ftomach firft maketh 1 proof, whether it
Baton.
C2n cancel them.
Aflurcdly he was a man of a feeble ftomach,
concscl
any
great
fortune,
profperous
or
unable to
Htyieard.
dwrfe.
The vital funfiions are performed by general and
coaftant laws ; the food is conceded, the heart beats,
the blood circulates, the lungs play.
Cbeyr.c't Phikfofhical Principles.
The notions and fentiments of others judgment,
as well as of our own memor)', makes our property : it does, as it were, concifl our intelleduai
food* and turns it into a part of ourfelves.

Agreeable ; agreeing ; correfpondent ;
harmonious.
Were every one employed in points coKy)rdant
to their natures, profeilioni, and arts, common-

Harvey en Conjumptioni.

The other concomitant of ingratitude is hardheartednefs, or want of companion. Soatb's Serm.

Defpiir, of abjeft look.

And for tobacco, who could bear it ?
Filthy concomitant of claret !
Prior,
Where antecedents, conccmitatits and confequents,
caufes and eifefts, figns and things fignlfied, fub-

Latin,
body.

TV Con'Co'mitate.

1/.

a.

Agreement between perfons'or things

tion,

Taylor's tfortlf Ccmrnvnicant.

To Conco'rpor ATE. -v. ft.
pus.]

His wrath, and fo noncorporate.

Union

in

one mafs ;

Di3.

Co'ncourse. »._/! [cmicur/us, Lutin-I
1. The confluence
of many pcrfons or
things to one pl.ice.

Do ail the nightly guards,
The city's watches, with t'le people's fears.
The concourfe of all good men, ftrikc t lec nothing ?
B.n jfonj^n,.

z Cor. vl, 15.

Oiould fignify the degrees of alteration of one body
into another, from crudity to pcrfcil conccBion,

Bacm'i Natural Hijliry.
He, thotigh he knew not which foul fpake,

The coalition of the good frame of the univerfi

Of proud ambitious heart, who not content

was not the produ<fl of chance, or fjrtuitous

With fair equality, fraternal ftate.

fo«r/t'of particles of matter. Hate'sOr'.g. of Munk,

Will arrogate dominion undefcrv'd
Over his brethren, and quite difpolTcfs
Concord and law of nature from the earth. Milton.
Unfafe within the wind

which is the ultimity of that aSion or procefs.

intimate

mixture.

One fliall rife

The conftantcd notion of comoBion is, that it

Chave^and,

Concorpora'tion. n./ [fTOmcaticorpo-

What r«n«r</hath Chrift with Belial ?

This hard rolling is between coneoBion and a
Bacon's Natural Hifiory.

Cmple maturation.

[con and cor-

To unite into one body.

Thus we chaftife the god of wine
With water that is feminine.
Until the cooler nymph abate

Pour the fweet milk of concord into hell.
Uproar the univerfal peace. Shakefpeare's Machelh.

wards purity and perfeilion.

we conjoin the word with the fplrit.

ra/e.]

union ; mutual kindnefs.
Had I power, I Hiould

geftion in the llomach ; maturation by
heat ; the acceleration of any thing to-

To unite in one mafs or fub-

;

fuitablenefs of one to another ; peace

CoNco'cTiON. n./. [from concs^.] Di-

from concorpBro,
Of the fame

When we coneorporate the fign with the fignifica-

DiS.

[concomitatus,

[

ftance.

C0;NC0RD. ft./ [emcordia, Latin.]
I .

a convention.

to incorporate.]

corpus.'l

Conco'mitantly. adit, [from concomiIn company with others.

;

Dia.
Ti Conco'rpor ATE. v. a. [from <-»'; and

and adjunOs, are neceflarily connefted with
each other, we may infer.
fVatts.

A
To ripen.

Becaufe both meant, bnth fpake the fame.

Of fuch commotion

Might thence « new ciKcc{l:cn take.

Great things by fmall, if, nature's roBreni broke,
Aming the conftellations war were fj rjng. Mi'ton.
Kind concord, heavenly bjrn who^e blifsful reign
Holds ihii vaft globe in one furrounding chain j
Soul of the world
Tickel,

And part far purer th.in he came.

Conco'rpor AL. adj.

jcfls

tattt.]

A compadl

the Gailican churcj. among the grievances of tliat
concordatc, and as a mark of their flavery, fmce lift
reckons all convocations of the clergy in Eng;land
to be ufelefs and dangerous ?
S-tviftm

Philips.

Reproach is a concomitant to greatnefs, as fatires
and inveftives were an eiTcntial part of a Roman
triumph.
Addijon,

Aill concoiiid by the earth ;

'

datum, Lat.]

Wild flaring, and his faJ concomitant

other.
This fimple bloody fpeftation of the lungs, is
differenced from that which ctncomitaies a pkurify.
Harvey on Conjumptions.

and fruits and grains
are half a year in ctncofJing, whereas leaves are out
^
and perfect in a month.
Bacon.

CoKCo'RDATE.«.y^ \_cortctirJat,¥t, concorHow comes he to number the want of fynods in

'ibe fmall clufc-lurking minifter of fate,
V/hofc high ctncoSed venom through the veins
rapid lightning daru.
Thon:fin't Summer.

The root which continueth ever in the earth, is

wealths wools rife up of thcnilelves.
Bronvn's Vulgar Errours.

Horrour ftalks around.

heighten to perfection.

3.

ffilton.

ture,

In confumptions, the preternatural conconiitantSf
an univcrfal heat of the body, a torminous diarrhoea,
and hot diftilUticns, have all a corrofive quality.

to

by heat;

now in ufe in this fenfe.

ConCo'rdant. ac^J. [concorJans, Latin.]

Lat.] To be collaterally connedled with
any thing ; to come and go with an-

To purify or fublirae

tlie

three chief relations infpeech. It is not

Bacon.

Wjfft In ibe MinJ.

t.

S'wit't,

one of

Hemade him the chief cwicem/fj/ir of his heir apparent and only fon, in a journey of much adven-

found.

.

To digeft by the ftomach, fo as to turn

I.

;

After the three concordance learned, let the
mafter read unto him the epiiiles of Cicero.
Afcham's Scboolmafter.

Concoagula'tion. It./, [from, concoa-

A coagulation by which dif-

A concord in grammar

3.

Stvifi.

fon or thing collaterally connefted.
Thefe eftedts are, from the local motion of the
air, a concomitant of the found, and not from the

Boyle s Experiments.

Boyh^t Hifory ef Firmneji.

the verfe as will fetve your turn.
An old concordance b..und long fince.

Conco'mitant. ft./. Companion; per-

them.

Th»y do but cdagulate themfeives, without rouCtiigulating with them any witer.

Some of you turn over a cottcordancc, and there,
having the principal word. Introduce as much of

Locke.

to feveral degrees.

*

by the

gulati.}

CON

CON

CON

Donne.

Cosco'lour. adj. [ccncolor, Latin.] Of

;

Vain is his force, and vainer is his ikiil.

With fuch a concourje comes the flood of ill.
Drydens Fables.
2.

The perfons aflembled.
The prince with wonder hears, from ev'ry part.
The noifc and bufy concourje of the mart.

fucli «s, to fct forth

DrydeiCs Virgil.

!

one colour ; without variety.

con.

3.

The point of junftion or interfeftion of
two bodies.

I

In concohur animals, and fuch as are c«jifined
unto the fame cnl ;ur, we mcafure not their beauty
thereby ; for if a. crow or blackbird grow while,

we account it more pretty.

z.

It appea/eth by the roiirtri/ made between Henry

and Roderick the Iriffi king.

Brown.

Conco'mitance. 7 «./ [from concomi-

3.

C-'ONcoMiTANCv. J /or,Lat.] Subfiftence
together with mother thing.

The fecondary aclii^n fubfifteth not alone, but
in eoncoKUancy with the other j fo the n.)ftfil5 arc
•fefal for rcfpiratlon and fiuelling, but the prineipalufr it fmelling.
Brt-wn.
To ar5uc from a concotnitancy to a caufality,
is not infallibly conclufivc.
Clanvillc'i Scifjis.

CONCO'MITANT.a^-. [««««;>fl„,,LaConjoined with ; concurrent with
;
coming and going with, as collateral,
not caufative or coiifcqueniial.
1 be fpirit tfiai furthenlh tbeexttniwn or dilatin.]

A corapaft.
Daviet on Ireland.

Harmony; confent of founds.
The man who hath not mufick in himfelf.
Nor is not mov'd with concord of fweet founds.

Is fit for trcafons.
Shakcfp, Merch. of Venice.
4. Principal grammatical relation of one
word to another, diftindl from regimen.
Have thofe who have writ about dccl-nfions,
concords, and fyntajes, loft their labour f
Locke.

Conco'r dance. »./. [ccttcorciaitti{i,L&t.']
1,

2.

Agreement.
A book which fhews in how many texts
of fcripture any word occurs,
I Ihall

take it for an opportunity to tell you, how

you are to rule the city out of a concordance,
Stuth'i Serment, Dtdicalhit.

Sofoon as the upper ghfb is laid upon the lower,
touch it at one end, and to touch the drc^p
making with the lower glafs an
angle of about ten or fifteen minutes j tlic drop
wiU begin tj move towards the concourje of the
glaffes, and will continue to move with an accelerated motion, till it arrives at that concourje of the
fo as t J

at thejjthcr end,

NcMtn.

glalTcs.

CoNCREM a'tion.

ti,

/ [from concremo,

Lat. to burn together.] The aft of burning many things together.
QiS.

Co'ncrement. n. /. [ from coticre/co,
Latin.]
The mafs formed by concretion ; a colleflion of matter growing to-

gether.
There is the cohefion of the matter into a more
and thereby it is prepared to the ccncrctnent of a pebble or flint.
Jiale's Or'.g'tn of ManlirJ,

loofe confiftency, like clay,

362

COMCRE SC£MCe«

CON

CON
CoNCRt'scENCt'. ». /.
L:\t.]

[from

Heiti

tanert/c*,

The aft or quality of growing by

the union of feparatc particles.
Srcing it ib neither a fubitance jMrfeAi nor
ancho I'e, bow any other fukllance fhouid cbcnce
take cMcrtfcnce, hath not been l«ughc>

ate the juices of a human body \ for too great hea-.
will produce coHcrtlim,

CONCRE'TE. -v. n. [concre/ro, Latin.]
to coalefce into one mafs ; to

grow by

coagulative.
When wood and other bodies petrify, we do not

the union and coheilon of parts.

afcribe their induration to cold, but unto falinous
fpirit, or cmeretivi jaiia,

before they conertteJ, floated in the liquor at equal
Newicti.
^ftances, in rank and file.
The blood of fome who died of the plague could

cretion

to

;

«U difputc; we fee it in the meteors.

HaWi Origin cf Mankind*

Co'ncretb. adj. [from the verb.]
Formed by concretion

formed by coalition of feparate particles into one mafs.
The fkt^ aKcritc&Me, or coiififtent futface, of

1

the chaos, muft be of

;

tlie fame figure as

the

laft

liquid ftats.

Not abftraft

:

applied to a

fubjeft.
kind of mutual commutation there i«, whereby thofe fCBcr^ftf names, God and man, when wc
fpeak of ChriH, do take interchangeably one an-

A

,

other's

room ;

fo tha:,

for truth of fpeech,

it

of God
lath created the world, and tlic fon of man by hi:
death hath fived it ; or eife that the fon of- nian
did create, and the fon of Cod died to fave, the
Hooker.

world.

while they exptefs the quality,
do alfo either exprefs, or imply, or refer to fomc
fubjefl to which it belongs ; as white, round,
long, broad, wife, mortal, living, dead t butihcTe
are not always noun adjefiives in a grammatical
lenfe ; for a knave, a foo!, a philufopher, and
C'iBcrtte terms,

pardon an offender, he denied him : afterwards,
when a concubine of his made the fame fuit, he
granted it to her ; and faid. Such fuits were to be
granted to whores.
Bacon.
He caufed him to paint one of his concubines,
Campafpe, who had the greatell fiiatc ia his aft'eeDryden.
tion.
Tile wife, though a bright goddefs, thus gives

tin.]

or, union of various parts ad-

1

Latin.]

If gold iife!f be admitted, as it mull be, for a
porous nitcrtle, the proportion of void to body, in
the texture of common air, will be fo much the
Bentley's Sermons.

.

Irregular

Of foul eoncHpiJcence ; whence evil (tore,
Ev'n fhame, the laft of evils. Milton's Par. Loft.
Nor can they fay, that the difference of climate
inclines

one nation to concupifcence and

pleafures, another to blood-thirflinefs :
ple has

n.f. [from concrete."]
Coagulation ; colledioa of fluids into a

Dia.

Concre'tion. n./. [from concrete.]
coalition.
I. The aft of concreting
3. The mafs formed by a coalition of fepa-

!

[from concupifcent.] Relating to concupifcence. DiS.
adj.

Struck with thefe great emcurrenus of things.

a'^ivin.

Addifm's SpeBator,

4. Affiftance ; help.
From thefe fublimc images we colleS the greatnefs of the work, and tlie neceflity of the divine
concurrence to it.

5.

Rogers,

Joint right; equal claim.
A bi(ht>p might have officers, if there wasarsxcurrency of jurifdiftion between him and the ar.:h.
deacon.

Ayliffe,

1.

[from concur.]
Afting in conjunftion; agreeing in the

fame

aft ; contributing to the fame
event ; concomitant in agency.
I

tlie

join with thefe laws the pcrfonal prefence of
king's fon, as a concurrent caufe of this refor-

For, without the concurrnt confent of all thefe
three parts of the legillature, no fuch law is or can
be made.
Hale,
This fole vital faculty is not fu(ficient to exterminate noxious humours to the periphery, unlefs
the animal faculty be concurrent with it, to fupply
the nbres with animal fpirits.
Harvey,
All combin'd
Your beauty, and my impotence of mind y
And his concurrent flame, that blew my (ire j
For (till our kindred fouls had one defire.
Bryden's Fables,

Though reafon favour them, yet fenfe can hardfatisfy,

both thefe muft
Temple.

_

2.

Craft>avJ,

He views our behaviour in every concurrence of
a(rairs, and fees us engage in all the pol5ibilitics of

mation.

defir-

To CONCU'R. V. n, [conciirro, Latin.]
1
To meet in one point.
concur.

cir-

eager;

The fcbools reduce all the pafTions to thefe two
heads, the concupijdbU and irafcibte appetite.
South' s Sermons.

ly allow them ; and, to

Combination of many agents or
cumilances.

\concupifcihilii,
;

ous ; inclining to the purfuit or attainment of any thing.

;

rate particles.
Some plants, upon the trII^of the fea, are fuppofcd to grow of fame euuretion of flisne from the
waxr, wbeit the ki fiixreth little.
S^ctn's natural Vifitry.

3.

Concu'rrent. adj.

He would not, but by gift of my chaile body
To his concufijcent intemperate luft,
Shakcjp. Meafure for MeaJ.
Releafe my brother

Ncrris.

is not

Hooker, Preface.

Clarendon*

[ concupifiens,

Latin.] Libidinous ; lecherous.

Concupisce'ntial.

fame polity,

Tarquin the proud was expelled by an univerfal
concurrence of nobles and people.
S-uiift on tbe DiJ/ini. in Athens and Rome,

been overrun with recently invented vice.
Bent ley's Sermons.

CONCUTISCENT. adj.

points belonging to the

imputed to the irreverence the judges were in.

would

difcover great ignorance not to know, that a peo-

Sin, confidcrcd not abflracHily for the mere aft
of obliquity, but concr'eitly, vi\t\i fuch a fpecjal
dependance of it upon the will as ferves to render

Concre'tbness.

fenfual
it

any de-

The concurrence of the peers in that fury, can be

Did.
libidinous

Licke.

aft of joining in

flange.

and are made fearful to ofi'end, though it be but
in a wandering cogitation.
Hooker.
In our faces the evident figns

predicate ; not abllraftly.

iblid mafa.

Agreement;

'I'heh concurrence in perfuafion, about fome mea-

with ; luft ; lechery.
We know even fccrct cencufijcence to be fin ;

Goncre'tely. ad'v. [from concrete.'] In CoNctJPi'sciBLE. adj.
a manner including the fubjeft with the
Lat] Imprefling dcfire

the 3gent guilty.

Union; aflbciation ; conjunftion.

fign, ormeafures.

[cincupi/c/ntia,

deiire ;

Collier on the Spleen,

pcrfuade us.

2.

a. [concuko, La-

n. /.

event

We have no other meafure but our own ideas,
with the concurrence of other probable reafons, to

Did.

hering to each other.

greater.

1.

Granville.

Trampling with the feet.

TiUotfon,

Concu'rrENCE. 1
r re
t
Concu'rrency.}"-/- t'J"^'" ''"""'I

Conculca'tion, n.f. [conculcatio, Lat.]

fVatti^t Lfgick.

Co'kcretf. n.f. A mafs formed by con;

the ftrength it can have.

When oiitv.'ard caufes cincur, the idle are fooned

To tread, or trample, under foot.

Co N c u'p s c £ N c E

is

To contribute to one common
feiaed by this infeQion.

place

.

life,

with joint f)ower.

Sbakeff tare's Henry VI.

kn^ivery, folly, and philofophy, which are the ab-

cretion

all

And yet too good to be your coHcuhine,

many other ccncrtte:, are fubftantives, as well aj
ftra£t terms that belong to them.

only to deny
Stulb,
Teftimony is the argument ; and,'if fair probabilities of reafon concur with it, this argument hath
6.

To CONCLTLCATE. f

with a bad

Chrift with a greater folemnity.

1 know I am too mean to be your queeni

Ikilleth not whether we fay that the fon
"

To have an orthodox belief, and a true profeffion, concurring

woman kept in fornication ; a whore ; a

To mortal coneubines of frerti embrace.

Pope,

To be united with j to be conjoined.

5.

CO'NCUBINE. n.f. [concuhina, Lat.] A
ftrumpet.

Clarerdn,

Extremes in nature equal good produce,
Extremes in min concur 10 general ufe.

lerial

Barnit.

2. [In logick.]

defperate counfels.

When hit great friend »ras fuitor to him to

That there are in our inferiour world divers
bodies, that are rmrrrKt/ out of others, is beyond

contributes.
Their aftcflions were known to concur If the mod

A

Adultery was punifhed with death by the ancient
cmcuimage was permitted.
Broome.

form by the coalition of

fcattered particles.

they do without reafon.
Hooker,
4. It has to before the efFeft to which one

heatliens ;

jtrhutbrut.

To Concre'te. v. a. To form by con-

with them it only then a difgrace, when wc fo low
them in that they do amifc, or generally in that

Brovin's Fulg. Err.
[ from concrete. ]

n. f.

Concu'binage. n.f. [concubinage, Fr.
concuiinatus, Lat.] The aft of living
with a woman not married.

not be made to ancrett, by le^fon of the putrefaction begun,

It is not evil fimply to cmcur viilb the heathens,
either in opinion oc adion ; and that conformity

mafs formed by coagulation.

The mineral or metallick matter, thut ctmcrcting
with the cryftalline^ is equallj diffufed throughout
H'codtvarJ.
the body of it.
When any faline liquor is evaporated to a cuticle, and let cool, the fait ccncrtta in tegular
figures ; which argues that the particles of the fait,

.

whom

one agrees.

ing the power to produce concretions

Co N c R e't u R E

It hat <it'/>.& before the perfon with

3.

^rhmhtiit ofjiJiments.

Co'^icmrivz. adj. [from concrete.] Hav-

Raleigh's Hiftcy of the IVorlJ.
Tt,

CON

In genenl, doth not refolvg ta<l attenu-

To agree ; to join in one aftion, or opinion.
A£ls which (hall be done by the greater part of

Davies on Ireland.

2. Conjoined ; aflbcinte ; concomitant.
There is no diHcrencc between the concurrent
echo and the iterant, but the quicknefs or flownefs
of the return.

Bacon,
my executors, (hall be as valid and cffeiflual as if
Concu'rrent. »./. [from>»wf»r.] That
all my executors bad concurred in the fame.
Sfeift'i Loft mil.

which concurs ; a contribntory caufe.
T»

CON

e o N
Tb til iffslrJ of imporijnce there are thnt'iie.
Ceffary concurriuti, without which they can never

'be difpatchedj

titne, induftry,

CONDS NSABts.

and faculties.
Dtcay nf Piety.

CONCLTSSION. »./. Icomujfto, Lat.]
The aft ollhaJuag; agitation; treme-

I.

It is believed that gr;at ringing of bells, in po-

hath dufipauid pcftilentairj whiih
may be from the cnr:cu£im of the air.

Baun'i Natural Hijiiry.

The llrong ccmujpon on the heaving tide
Roll'd back the vcilil to the ifland's lidc.

The ftate of being fliaken.
There want not inftances of fuch an univerfa!
cmctijfmn of the whole globe, as mult needs implv
an agitation of the whole abyfs.
H'tKil-uard'i Natural H'fiiry.
^

CoNCU ssivE. adj. [ccncujiis, Lat.] Having the power or quality of (haicing.

To CONDE'MN. 'v.a. [cDndemno, Latin.]

To find guilty;

1.

mer.t

doom to punilh-

to

contrary to ab/ol-ve.

:

My confcience hath a thoufand feveral tongues.

And ev'ry tongue b.-ings ia a fev'ral tale,
And ev'ry taje avdimm me fur a villain.

Slattffcare'i RkLard III.

be fund guilty ?
——Yes, truly, is he, and ccr.dtmn'd upofl 't.
Stakejfearei Henry VIII,
Confitiered as a judge, it ctttdrmm where it ought
to abfolv;, and prcnounces ablolution where
it
Is

ought to t:„dar.„.

Fiddei'i Sermcri.

Jt has fo before the punifhrnent.

2.

The

fon of .-nzn

(hall

be betrayed unto the

fcribes, and they /hall ccrdemti him to death.

3.

To cenfure ; to blame

Mjtt. XX. i%.
;

to declare cri-

miiud : contrary to apprirje.

Who then fliali biame
Itfelf for being there >

Shakeffeare's Macketb.
flour-Died in inc fcene, U cen-

The poet, who
demmd in the ruelle.
Drydeti-! JErteid, Preface.
He who was fo unjuft as to do his brother an
_

injury, wiU fcarce be lo jufl as to csudimn
himfelf

"" ''•

Lt^ie.

They who approve my condud in this particular,
are much more numerous than thofe who
condemn
"•

HfxaaHr.

4. To fine.

And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerulalem, and cmdemncd tl.o land in
an hundred talents of filver,
zUrtmiele,.

To flicw guilt by contrail.

The righteous tliat is dead lha:i ccndemn the un-

godly which arc living.

Co K D E M N A B L E
_

.

Oi/J.

fy,/Jim, W. ,6.

[from coudfma.]

Blameable; culpable.
He commands to ccface the print of a cauldron

in aflics i

which ftriSly to obferve, were condemn-

able fuperftition.

Brtmn.

Cowdemna'tion. n./. [co/iJemna/ic. Latin.] The fentence by which any
one is
doomed to punilhment

;

the adt of con-

demning ; the ftate of being condemned.
There is therefore now no andcmnatkn to

C,

them.

Rnr.cni, viii.

"''*'^°''Y- "'O- Urom condemn.]
^^V'
Pafling a fentence of condemnation,
or

of cenfure.

•

IS

'"'''' '*" *'* "^'"•"•l^y fentence,
^l
like '''u'
the incendiary

in a popuiar tumult,

u chargeable with all thofe difordcr. to whichwho

gave r.te.

he
Ctrvernmcnt of the ronrue.

Some few are the only refuiers and
ccndemner, of
this cithohtlc praflice.
Tayl^; Wttihj Cmmun.

.[condefccJe',
It. irom coudefendo,
LatJrt.J

1.

'

-,

fubmiflion ; to
link willingly to equal terms
with inferiours ; to footh by familiarity.
This method carries av.-j-y
humble and «rrf,.
fcndmg air, when he that ioftrufls feeras to
be the

on the Soul.

'

,

To depart from the.priv'ilt-ges of fupe-

nonty by a voluntary

^'th
Vo^CoNDE -MSATE. t'. a. [ccnJenfo,
Latin.]
To condenfe to make thicker.
ToCondb'nsate. v.n. To grow thicker.
Conde'nsate. «//>-. [condenjatiii, Latin.]
Made thick; condenfedj comprefledin-

t

can require.

yea, thickened or
;
ccndcnpte, moft white, as i:
appeareth by thi hail

•,
H»4-j
He did not. primarily

lent ftnte.

T"

"
l-rench.]

We

condejcendingly made Luthe.
_
's works umpires
in the controverfy.

^tterhury.

Condesce nsion. n.f [from condefcendS

Voluntary humiliation ; defcent
from fupenority ; voluntary fubmiffion
to equality with inferiours.
It forbids pride, and
ambition, and vain glory
and commands humility, and
modefty, and «,i.!

,

^-11^^^^^

Courtefy

and condfcenfon is an happy
quality,
which never fails to make its way
into the good
opinion, and into the very heart
and allays the
envy which always attends a high
(lation.

j

;

,

of the

mto little ftones.

_

Courteous ; willing to treat
with infenot haughty :
° ^

,

firft

they can conftitutt other colours.

riours on equal terms
not arrogant.

of that

refleftcd,

(hews fuch a dichis behaviour, as are

all

^j^;fi„_
Condesce NsivE. <?«>. [From condefcend.l

when they begin to condenfe and

coalefce into fmall parcels, become
bignefs whereby aauie muft be

Raphael, amidft his tendernefs,

mty and ccndefcenjion in

fuiti.ble to a^fuper.our
nature.

BoyliiScfpt.Chym.

.„

.

Jcendwg.] By way of voluntary
humiliation ; by way of kind
conceffion.

The'va'pou^'a^
tx/-

All vapours,

clnhant's Sothy.

,>!

Condesce'ndingly. ad'zj. [from eonde.

coUeft and conderfe it

cave, docs prefently there condenfe

oarlv

>.>« to other,.

/V CoNDE NSE. rv. n. To
grow clofe and
weighty ; to withdraw its parts
into a
narrow compafs.
The water tailing from the upper parts

:

before

'"'>,[-«'^>«. Latin.]
Newton' QptUkt.
CoNDE NSE.a^. [from the verb.] Thick; "^^wZ^^Worthy of a perfon fuitable
defervi

;

denfe; condenfated ; clofe;
mafly
'
weighty.
They colour, fliape, and fize

•

AlTume, as likes them bed, condenfe
or rare. Mdt.
I hey might be feparated
without confociating
lato the huge condenfe bodies of
planets.
t
o
.
Condenser.*./

S'ntlty't Sermonl.

..

[from

condenfe.]

ftrong metalline veffel, wherein

the air,

CoNDE NSITY. n.f [from condenfe.] The
;

condenfation ;

denfenefs; denfity.
upon high places near the

coaft, at the t.me of herring fi(hing,
to the (i(hers

which way the

fea

to make (igns

(hole pafleth,

may bttter appear to fuch u lUnd upon

it is

tiling deferved

by crimes.

always ufed of fonj«.

Unlefs it were a bloody murtherer,
never gave them condign punilhment.

I

„_-.

_Shatefpeare's Henn VJ.

^
Confider who is your friend,
he that would have
brought him to condign
punilhment, or he that
has faved him.
^ i, .j
,

/

by means of a fyringe faftened

flate of being condenfed

;

ed ; merited :

.

.

ylrl>ui/njr.
/~i„
A CONDI
ON NESS, n.f, [from condign.] Suit-

to crowd

which
fome high

*

° ^ N c E n.f [condefcendance.
Voluntary fubmiffion to a ftate
ot equality with inferiours.
" ^=

"iT

con-

difpenfe.

to fub-

.

Uifarm itfelf. nor condtfcend to

denfe

there.

to yield ;

With foolirh hopes.

_Srm.„'sru/garErroi,rs.
,
,.
I he lupply of
Its moifture is by rains
and fnow,
ana dews and condenfathn of
vapours, and perhaps
by futterrani-ous pa/Tages.
p, .,/ „

the fu.face of the eartli, and

to bend ;

;

V

Tillotfon.

.

mind ever

,

Such denfe and folid ftrata arreft

<

WiU condejcend to fuch abfuij commands?
MVton.
"or ftall my relblution

nijlorj.

Their liquid flore, and fome in cells

/I

mit ; to become fubjeft.
Can they think me fo broken, fo
debas'd.
With corporal fervitude, that my

account was not regula'r:
and cMden/.ition, the hours
were Iharler in hot weather than in
cold.

Some lead their youth abroad, while fome

accommodate to their pre!
„-.„

3. To Hoop

tSy water-glallcs the
ior, from attenuation-

needs, as
the fun, raifc many enviuus
exhalations; whicli,
condenfed by a popular odium,
were capable to
cloud the bnghteft merit.
KhgCharkt.

uiend.

^0''-'"''!l''dianEmfert»:
intend to appoint this way
;

but condffcended to it, as
.

fame reaton teacheth, that earth,
rarefied, m.w
become water.
Ra/ei^h't

7i CONDE'NSE. ^.a. [conJayh.
Latin:N'
I o make any body
more thick, clofe,
and weighty ; to drive or attraft
the
parts of any body nearer to each
other
to infpiflate
oppofed to rarefy.

eondefcend,

On thefe conditions, to become your

:

-.

Spain's mighty monarch.

_

In gracious clemency does

Peacham.

[from condenfate.
The aft of thickening any body, or]
making it more grofs and weighty op.
pofite to varefaawn.
It by natural arguments
it may be proved,
that
water, by condcnfatkn, may
become earth: the

fralts,

r
To confent
to do more than mere
juftice
'T'

Water by nature is white

^"'''^''»',
(-0 N D E N s A T 1 o N . a. /.

„,

enquirer,

.
2.

to lefs fpace.

CONDE MNER. n. f. [from condemn.] K Co'nders. n.f. [conduire, French.]
Such as (land
blamer ; a cenfurer ; a cenfor.

r. CONDESCE'ND. -v. n.

'

_-

that the firft-caufeth

the (hips.
Thcfe be
likewile called huen, by likelihood
of the French
hiiycr, exclamare, and
balkers.
r-7/..7/

it.

Moving in lo high a fphere, he mufi

When all that is within him does ccndmn

5.

works fomething upon the mover to condenfe

.

:

His pefter'd fenfes to recoil and dart.

in the water, than to thofe in

;

Poft'i Oi-ijfiy.

2.

clifl,,ty a kind of blue colour

This agent meets with n'filtauce in the move,
able; and no: being in the
utmoft extremity of
denfit;., but «ii^;r/a«, 5'er
further, every rtTillance

fa£lion.
I'ulous citiee,

CON.

[from conJcn/attt.]
That wiiich is capable of condeniatten
;
that which can be drawn or
compreffed
into a narrower compafs.
aJj.

,

ablenefs ; agreeablenefs to
deferts, Di,3.
Condi ONLY. ad-v. [from condign.]
Deiervedly ; according to merit.
Dia

Co NDiMENT. n.f [condimenlum. Latin.]
i>eafoning ; fauce j that
which excites
the appetite by a pungent
tafte.

As for radilh and the like, they are

for condi.

tnenls, and not for

nouridimcnt.

condiment, guft, or

medicament,
" than any fubllan.

Baron't Nat,

Many things are fwallowed by animals ratherHi/l

t.al

nuttuneou

for

g,^^

CoNOIJCl'ptl,

CON

CON

CoKDisci'piE. «./. [condifeifidus, Lat.]

been rarely praflifed till then by the petfoni of the

To eO'NDITE. V. a.

[coHdio, Lat.]

To

What tendlfam can a treaty find

tirks.

1' th'

To traitors

Many are apt to believe remifliin of fins, but

The king is but a man

:

element Ihews, to him ai to me : all his fenfes ha%e
Stakcjhejrc.
but human csndxti^vu
It feemed to us a ccnSium and property of Divine
Powers and Beings, to be hidden and unfeen to

Bacm.

others.
_

They will be able to conferve their properties
unchanged in pafling through fcveral mediums
which is another cmjium of the rays of light.
Kc^vtm^s Of>tich*

Natural quality of the mind ; temper ;

3.

8.

ftitrfi/ion,

the violet fmclU, the

temperament ; complexion.

The bcft and fiundeft of his time hath been but
now mud we luok, from his age, to recei\e

Moral quality ;

4.

virtue or vice.

Jupiter is hot and moift, temperate, modeft,
hone!), adventurous, liberal, merciful, loving, and
faithful ; that is, giving thefe inclinations : and
-

Kaleigh's HiJIory of the H^crU.

5. State; external circumftances.

To us all,
That fee! the bruifes of the days before.

And fufl'er the ctoditicn of thefe times
To lay an heavy and unequal hand
Vpon our humour*.

Shakefpeare't Hfnry IV,

It was

nut agreeable unto the cordiritn of ParaBrxvnt l^ufg. Err.
dife, and ftate of innocence.
EDimatc the greatnefs of this mercy by S<e ccnditwn it finds the fmncr in, when C«d vouchfafes
Scuib's Sirmans.
it to them.
Did we perfeflly know the ftatc of our own rcndii'w, and what was moft proper for us, we might
have rcafoo to conclude our prayers not heard, if
IVaic'i Prtfaralim.

not anfwered.

This is'a principle adapted to every panion and
faculty of our nature, to every ftate and ccnditicn
Rogers,
01 our life.

no ciruUiifiti of encouraging fo numerous a breed

of beggars.

Sivi/i-

CcnJiiKit, circumftance, is not the thing

Blifs is the fame in fubje^ as in king.

Pcft'i Sjf'y on Man.

6.

A

That which

prince, Miranda.
Sbahfp. Tcmp'ji.
The king himfelf met with many entertainCMcts, at the charjjc of particular men, which had

is general, but eondiand belongs to none who Hull not perform

Hammond,

the condicicji.

Condi'tion ED.

[from

adj.

(ondition.]

bad.

Be nominated.

Stakeffeare's Merchant of Vctiict.

To Condi'tion.

To make terms

t/. «.

The deareft friend to me, the Kindelt man,
The beft conditicn'd,
Shakeff. Merch. of Venice.
To CONDO'LE. f n. [condotto, Lat.l
To lament with thofe that are in milfortune ; to exprefs concern for the miIt has luith before the
ferics of others.
psrfon fjr whofe misfortune we profefs
grief.
It is oppofed to congratulate.
.

[from the ngun.]

to ftipulate.
It was conditioned between Saturn and Titan, that
Saturn Ihould put to death all his male children.
;

Raleigh's HiJIiry.

Small towns, which ftand Aijf till great (hot
Enforce them, by war's law condition not, Donne.
*Tis one thing, I muft confcfs, to condition for a
good office, and another thing to do it gratis.
L'Ejlrargr.

Condi'tionai.. adj. [from conditioti.]
not abfolute
1. By way of ftipulation
made with limitations ; granted on par;

;

ticular terms.
For the ul'e we have his exprefs commandment,

Your friends would have caufe to rejoice, rather
than condole tvitb you.
Tcntpie,
I congratulate with the beafts upon this honour
done to their king; and mud condile with us poor
mortals, who are rendered incapable of paying
our refpefts.
Addifoit,

To Con do'le. i;. a.

To bewail with an-

other.
I come not, Sampfon, to condole thy chance.
As thefe perhaps ; yet wilh it had not been,
Though tor no friendly intent. Milton s jigonifits.

Why (hould our poet petition Ifis for her fafe
delivery, and afterwards Cjnd-.li her mifcarriage }

Dryden.

for the cffc& h\^ conditional promife j fo thar, with-

out obedience to the one, there is of the other no
aHurance.
lloolfer
Many fcriptures, tliough as to their formal terms
they are abfOlute, yet as to their fcnfe they are conSouth,

ditional.

This drift neceflity they fimple call
Drydens Fahhs,
Another fort there is conditicnal.
2.

[In grammar and logick.] Expreffing
fome condition or fuppofition.

CoNDi'riONAL.n./ [from the adjcflive.]
A limitation. A word not now in ufe.
He faid, if he were fure that young man -were
king Edward's fon, he would never bear arms againli
him. This cafe fecms hard, botjj in refpefl of the
conditional, and in relpefl of the other w.irds.
Bacon's Henry VII.

Con do'le ME NT.

[from condole,]
Grief; forrow; mourning.
». /.

To perfevcre
In obftinate andolement,

is a courfe

Of impious ftubbornefs, unmanly grief.
Shakeff earc' s Hamlet.

Condo'lencb. n./. \condolance, Fr.] The
cxpreflion of grief for the forrows of
another ; the civilities and meflages of
friends upon any lofs or misfortune.
The reader will eicufc this digrefTion, due by
way of condolence to my worthy brethren. Arhuth.

Condo'ler.

n. f.

[from

One

condole.]

that joins in lamentation for the misfor-

tunes of another.

Condition a'lity. n. /. [from condi- Condon a'tion. n. f. [condonatio, Lat.]
Z);V7.
A pardoning a forgiving.
tional.]
The quality of being condi;

tional ; limitation by certain terms.

And as this clear propofal of the proniifcs may
infpirit our endeavours, fj is the conditionality moft

efficacious to neceffitate and engage them.

Decay of Piety.

Condi'tion ALLY.

[from conditional.] With certain limitations ; on
particular terms ; on certain ftipulations.
czdv.

I

here entail

The crown to thee, and to thine heirs for ever;
C^rditicnallyj that here thou take an oath

To ceafe this civil war.

Shakeff>eare's Henry VI.

To CONDU'CE. v. n. {conduco, Lat.] To
promote an end to contribute ; to ferve
to fome purpofe followed by to.
;

:

The boring of holes in that kind of wood, and
then laying it abroad, feemcth to nnduce to make
it

Bacon.

ihine.

The means and preparations that may conduce
unto the entcrpriee.

Bacon's Holy IVar.
Every man does love or hate things, according
as he apprehends them to conduct to this end, or to
contradifl it.
Tilht/en,
They may conduce to farther difcoveries for completing the theory of light.
Nrtvton,

A falfe apprehenfion underftands that pofitively, To CoNDu'cE. t'.
which was b«t cenditiotially ezprefled.
Broivni Vulgar Errturt.

am, in my enditim,

lionate ;

miHaken to be particular and

is

Having qualities or properties good or

Rank.
I

abfolute, duly underftood,

The writing in wliich the terms of agree-

Some defponding people take the kingdom to be
ill

EAabli(hed on certain terras or condi-

ff^jfkr.

If you repay me not on fuch a day.
In fuch a place, fuch funi or fums as are
Exprcfs'd in the condiliiit, let the forfeit

therefore thofe ancient kings, beautified with thefe
tmJitimi, might be called thereafter Jupiter.

Socrates efpoufed Xantippe only for her extreme
South*
ill cmjiti'-'ni, above all ci that fex.

Condi'tionate. adj. [from the verb.]
tions.

Your fingic bond ; and in a merry fport.

rafli 1

not alone tlie imperfeflions of long engrafted ccnditicni, but the unruly waywardncfs tliat infirm and
Skakifj-carc.
chnlcrick years being with them.

in, wluch fufpends and condiiimalii its eruption.

ment are comprifed ; compaft ; bond.
Go with me to 3 notary, feal me there

The child taketh moll of his nature of the
niother, bcftdes ipeech, manners, and inclinatior,
which are agreeable to the cenJitient of their moSpfnfcr on Jnland.
thers.

to regulate.

;

Tayhr.

Make our ccnJiiims with yon capti»t king.—
Secure me but my folitary cell;
Dry,W< Den Sehjllin.
'Tis all 1 alk him.

Lat.]

Attribute ; accident ; property.

To qualify

That ivy arifeth but where it may be fupported^
we cannot afcribe the fame unto any fcicnce there*

Thofe barb'rous pirates willingly receive
Cxidiiicn:, fuch as we are pleas "d to give,

CONDI'TION. H.f. [ctrKlition, ft. condi-

t.

tion.]

Brtnim'i Vulgar Errourt,

they beliew it without the c.udilion of repentance.

compofition of conferves, powders, and
fpiccs, in the form of an eleftuary. Diil.

Shakefi^:are^i King ^oim,

B. Jtnfon't Catilinr.

ClarcnJ^in.

A

That nothing can allay, nothing but blood.

ftrike him down.

then fubmit to the woift ct>r.diu<,ti! the rebels were

reded, may be harmlefs, but can ncvc-r do good.
Taylor t Rule cf Living He!y.

A rage, whofc heat hath this

t

Norrli,

Te Condi'tionate. v, a. [from condi-

like to grant to bis perfon, and to bis religion.

Jiied or pickled niulhrooms, which, carefully cor-

Quality ; that by which any thing is
denominated good or bad.

a natural qualification for heaven.

He could not defend it above ten days, and muft

Grnv^s Muftevm.
The moft innocent of them are but like ««-

,

Would Cod in mercy difpcnfe with it as a eoa-

Stitkeff. Coriilanui.
part that is at mercy ?
\ yield upon ccnditicrti*^V/t give none

Much aOer the fame manner as the Tugar dotli,

[{torn conJite.']

Stipulated.
diticnary, yet we could not be happy without it, 11

Cittditibu !

pickle ; to prcferve by falls or aroma-

Co'nditembnt. «./

CoNDi'riovARY. adj, [from nndiiivi.J

Stipulation ; terms of coropaft.

7.

in the miJHiiig of pears, quinces, and the like.

1.

Otrmdnr.

beft candilKM.

A fchoolfellow.

tio,

C O H

We fee Urge preferments tendered to him, hut
conditionally ,

upon

his doing wicked nffic:s ;

ci>o-

fcience (hall here, accordiajj to its office, interpofc

and proteft.

Smth.

accompany,

a.

To conduft

;

to

in order to fhew the way.

In this fenfe I have only found it in the
following pafi'age.
He «us fent tc ar.duce hither the princcfs Henrietta Maria,

fVctien,

CONI)v'-«

CON

CON
CoNDu'ciBLE. adj. [ccnJueiiilis, Latin.]
Having the power of conducing

;

;

;

Hired; employed for wages.
The perfons were neither titularies nor perpetual

Plesfu'c-

3.

1.

The quality of conducing.

Water, in conduit pipes, can rife no higher

mention fomc examples of the anducivenrfs of

Than the well h«aJ from whence it fiilt doth

Bsy/t.

fprinS'

In fap confuming winter's drizzled fnow.

And all the conduits of mj blood froze up. Sbai.
God is the fountain of honour; and the con-

Management; economy.
Young men, in the ccaduH and manage of ac-

1

duit, by which he conveys

it to the fons of men,
are virtuous and generous practices.
South.

tions, embrace more than they can hold, ilir more

than they can quiet, and fly to the end without
eonfideration of the means.
Baccn,
How void «f reafon are our hopes and fears
What in the conduB of our life appears
So well defign'd, fo lucidly begun.
But when we have our wiA, we wi/h undone ?
Dryderi'i Juvtval.

_

.

Thefe organs are the nerves which are the conto convey them from without to their au.
dience in the brain.
Lode.

diiits

Wife nature likcwife, they fuppofe.
Has diawri two conduits down our nofe.
Prior.
2. The pipe or cocic at which water
is

The aft of leading troops ; the duty of

drawn.

a general.

charge and command, that the conduit run
nothing tjut claret wine.
SbakeJ'f care's henry VI.
I

C(.nduf} of armies is a prince's ait.

IKi/ier.

Convoy; efcorte; guard.

Co K D u p L I c a't O N
I

His majefty,
Tend'ring ray perfon's fafety, hath appointed
This condulf to convey me to the Tower.
i;balijfiarc'i RictjrJ lU.
I was afhamed to a/k the king footmen
and
horfemen, and cendu{I for fafeguard againft cut
adverfaries.

E/drai.

i
_

The afl of convoying or guarding.

4.

Latin.]
W'i.

the bale is
in a point.

Lat.]

a circle,

See Conv.

To talk eafily or carelefsly toge-

order to ihew tJie way.
fide,

will point you out the right path.
.

Mi/tcn cit

where J

Cndufl my fteps to find the fatal tree.
In this deep fortift
Drydrnt jp.mid.
2. To ulher, and to attend in civility.
Fray receive them nobly, and cndja them
Sbjitfffrt'i lUnrj VIII.

Belonging to talk or prattle.

Confarrea'tiok.

n.

{confarrec.lio,

/.

Lat. from/rtr, corn.] The folemnization of marriage by eating bread toge-

By tie ancient laws of RoiBulnS, the wife was
by corfirrcaiion joined to the hulband.
•'
AyMc'.sParcrn^n.

CO'NFECT. -v. a. [<-o«/.//*/,' Latin.]
To make up into fweetmtats to pre;

ferve with fogar. it feemi'riow corrupted

vMa comfit
Co'npect. n.f.
lweetme»t.

Confe'ctionary. n.f. [fromfc«/i<f?/o«.]
One whofe trade is to make fweetmeats.
Myfclf,

Who had the world as my confedinnitry.
The mouths, the tongues, the eyes, the hearts of
men
At duty, more than I could frame employments.
Sbakejfeare.

Confb'ctioner. n.f. [irom confeaion.]
One whofe trade is to make confeiSiottS
or fweetmeats.
Nature's eonfiHioner, the bee.

Whole fuckers are moid alchimy.
The Hill of his refining mold
Minting the garden into gold.
CleaveUnd.
Confaionert make much ufe of whites of eggs.
Boyle.

Confe'der Acy. n.f. [confederation. Ft.

A league

faedus, Latin.]

a contraft by

;

which feveral perfons or bodies of mea
engage to fupport each other ; union ;

engagement

;

federal compafl.

What confederacy ha-ve you with the traitors ?
SbakefpcLtre's King l^ear.

Judas fent them to 3(ome, to make a league of
amity and corfedcracy with them, i Afa«. viii. 17.
Virgil has a whole confederacy againft him, and
I muft endeavour to defend him.
Brydtn.
The (riendlhips of the world are oft
Confederacies in vice, or leagues of pleafure. /Iddifon.
avaricious man in office is in confederacy
with the whole riau of his diflrift, or depend-

An

ance; which, in modern tfrms of
to live and lot live.
-v. a.

art,

Sivift.

French.] To join in a league ; to unite
j
to ally.
They were cunftdcrated with Charles's enemy.
KrMles.

With thcfe the Piercies them confederate,
And as three heads conjoin in one intent. Daniel.

To Confede'rate. 1;. n. To league ; ta
unite in a league.
By words men come to know one another's
minds ; by th^fc they covenant and confederate.
South.

with him to whom the U-

It IS a confederating

tlu

Alicrbury.

Confe'derate. adj. [from the verb.}
United in league.

"
'

For they have cnnfulted tr-gethrr with one conlent ! they arc confederate againft thee.

Pfalm Ixxxiii. 5.

All the fwords
In Italy, and her confederate arms.

Could not have made this peace.

,j

[from the veib.}
.;

is called

[confederer.

crifice is offered.

ther.

_
Educathn. To

O may thy pow'r, propitious ftiU to me,

XAt* our prefeacn

[confabulatic,

carclefs talk.

To CoKDv CT. v. a. [conduire, French.]
1. To lead; to di reft; to accompany, in
(hall llralt ccnduil you to a hill

n. y;

Confa'bula'tory. adj. [from confabulate.]

Sbakefpcare.
There will be a new confi-{Iion of mould, which
perhap^ will alter the feed.
Bacon's Nat. Hijl.

To CONFE'DERATE.

ther ; to chat ; to prattle.

few think virtue

and cinduSi of abfolnte cectflity for preferring it.

I

and which ends

Lat.] Eafy convtrfation ; cheerful and

Exaft behaviour ; regular life.
Though all regard lor reputation is not quite
laid aCde, it is fo iow, that very

Ta Kitja fiio-n xtV.A©-

A folid body, of which

Sbakejpeate.
A warrant by which a convoy is ap- Conpabi/La'tion.

pointed, or fafety is affured.
6.

[cotiduplicatio,

a duplicate.

CONFA'UULAT E. 1: n. {confahch,

To

Co, give him courtecoi cotidiill to this place.

;

[»ii©..

Jrijioiie.]

Co'ney.

». /.

,

A doubling

Cone. n.f.

Some three or four of you,

5.

Vavics.

Ths face of mine is hid

JuSuj, Lit.]

3.

A

A canal of pipes for the conveyance of
waters ; an aqueduft.

CO'NDUCT. ». / [conduit, Fr. «« and

2.

^Incy.
;

Rcgert.

_

A-tdifov.

An inftrument to put up into the blad-

CONDU'CTRESS. n.f. [ftom coiiduil.]
woman that diredls direftrefs.
Co'nduit. n.f. [conduit, French.]

Con Di;'ciVE NESS. »./ [fTomcntdiici've.]

fcaion

.

der, to direft the knitie in cutting for

Ibul, are alio moft ccndmcrae to ourprefest felicity.

An aflemblageof different ingredients;
a compofition ; a mixture.
Of beft things then, what world fliajl yield «»To liken her ?

the ftone.

Addifon^s Freebuldir.

Thofe proportions of the good t!)ings of this life,
which are moft confident with the inteteili of the

1.

SbaieJ'^earts King Ltar.

a direilor.

;

condulicr in both.

4.

our country, will be reprefented as prejudicial to

I

A manager

If he did not intiiely ptojift the union anil
regency, none will deny him to have been the chict

An a^ion, however conducive to the good of

th;; fmallncfs of a body's parts to its fluidity.

2.

Who is unduflcr of his people ?—
As 'tis faid, the bafta. J fon of Glo'fter.

Sbakefpcare' s Cymbeline.

which are like to
candied confcrves, and are made of fugar and le"""'•s.
Bacon's Natural Hijlory.
He faw him devour fi(h and flcfh, fwallow wines
and fpices, ccnfe&ions and fruits of numherleft
fweets and flavours.
Addijon.

Shame of change, and tear of future ill j

A chiefs a general.

yea fo,

They have in Turky and the Ball certain con-

And zeal, the blind anduaar of the will. Dryden.
2.

.'

feBicr.s, which they call (crvets,

way by accompanying him.

which may contribute ; having the power
of forwarding or promoting: with/s.

*t»

For my confeSlions ?

Jiyl'ffi.

CoNou'cTOR. n.f. [from cendua.]
1. A leader; one who ihews another thei

CoNDu'ciVE. adj. [ftom (onduce.'\ That
.

Hafl thou not learn'd me to preferve

That our great king himfelf doth woo me oft

curates, butintirely«»</(irt;.';Mj, and removable at

COKDU'CIBLENESS. n. /. [flOm COxduciDid.

A preparation of fruit, or juice of fruit,
with fugar ; a Aveetmeat.

tin.]

Bmtley.

Thequ.ility of contributing to any

1.

CoNDucTi'Tiot;s. adj. [conduailius , La-

the temporal iaterell of them that obfervc them.

ilf.]

and carraway confc&s.

'

troops.

his U\»s are in iiKmic\\ei cmducibli to

end.

wit}i fugar of rofes

To manage as, to conduft a;t affair.
Harvey on Confumptiont.
4. To head an army
to lead and order Cokfe'ction. n.f. {confcltio, Latin.]
3.

and CQ^ducihlej is air.
Bacon^i Natural Hijiiry,
Tnol*e motions of generations and corruptions,
and of the conducibhs tbereurttst are wifeiy and admirably ordered and contemporaCed by the re£lor
of all things.
Bdlr.
None of thcfe magnctlcal experiments are fufficicnt for a perpetual motion, though thofe kind of
qualities feem moA carduahl! uxta it.
mk'mt't Ma'h^niatical Magi:k.
Our Saviour hath enjoined us a rcafonable I'erall

At fuppcr eat a pippin roaOcJ, and fweetened

Dtjdcn't Mnt\d.

having a tendency to promote or forward
with to.
To both, the medium which is molt propitious

»ice:

CON

Afcanius bids them be cendudid in,

•,;

,\

.-,

j^
,

I

Sbak. Corhlarut.
While the mind of m,m looketh upon fecond
caufrt fcatlered, it m.iy f imetimes reft in
then,

and go no fattiierj

bat

when

it

bcholdeth the
chuio

ehiln «f tliem nnftStrme and linked togellier, it
Baior,
mull need fly to providence and deity.
Oh race ienftd'rali into ciimes, that prove
Triumphant o'er th' eluded rage of Jove

rtfting together, doth

much einfer I! the ftrfngth

jefls ;

I

conference ;

SirEdmond Courtney, and the haughty prelate,
With many more confcdcrata, are in arms.

tliereof, or interpreting.

.

Sidney.

Labour "is confifj'edly a great part of the curfe,
and therefore no wonder if men fty from it. South,
Great geniufes, like great minifterr, though thcjr
are confeffidly the firft in the commonwealth of letters, mull be envied and calumniated.
Pofe's EjTay on Homer.

tioo'ier.

Shakeff>e^re.

An appointed

meeting for

difcuffing

French.]
fupport ; alliance.
The three princes enter into fome ftrlQ league

fome point by perfonal debate.
3. Comparifon ; examination of different
things by comparifon of each with other.

amongft themfelvcs.
and trnfida-atKB
'
Bacons Hmry VIl.

Our diligence muft fearch out all helps and fur-

Nor can thofe covfederatlmi or defigns be durable,
wlieii fubjefts make bankruprof their allegiance.

therances, which fcriptures, councils, laws, and
tfie mutual eanferenct of all men's collcftions and
Hooker,
obfervations, may aRx)rd.

KingCharics*'

The conference of thefe two places, containing fo

n. [confero, Lat. conFrench.] To difcoiirfe with ano'ther upon a Hated fubjeft ; to ventil.ite
any queftion by oral difcuffion ; to converfe folemnly ; to talk gravely toge-

excellent a piece of learning as this, cxpreOed by
fo worthy a wit as TuUy's was, muft needs bring

y» CONFE'R- v.
ferer,

learning.

•

difcovery of one's own guilt.

Your engaging me fi;(l in this adventure of the

Moxa, and defiring the (Inry of it from me, is like
giving one the torture, and then alking bis ctn.
Simple,
fiffr.n, which is harJ ufage.

The aft of difburdening the. confcience

2.

to a priell.
You will have little opportunity fo praSife fuch
a confeffjin, and fiiould therefore fupply the want
of it by a due performance uf it to God.
Wake's P reparation fcr Death,

jijcham's Scboolmajicr.

Profeflioh ; avowal.

3.

Who, before Pontius Pilate, witnefled a good

He that convsrfes,
2. He that bellows.
To CONFE'SS. nj. a. [confeffer, Fr. con1

ther ; to compare fentiments.

You will hear us lonfir cf this, and by an auricular affutanee have your fatisfaftion.
Sbikiffiarc 1 King Lear.
Reading makes a full man, conference a ready

man, and writing an exafl man ; and therefore, if
a man write little, he had need have a great me-

mory ;

if

he ccnfcr little, he had need have a pre-

fent wit j and, i/ he read little, he had need have
much cunnin^g, to feem to know that be doth not.

,

Bacon.
When they had commanded them to go afide out
cf the council, they conferred among themfelves.
y*3j, iv. 15.
He was thought to eimfer with the Lord Colej)eper upon the fubjeft ; but had fome particular

thoughts, upon whifh he then conferred with noClarendon.
body.
The Chriftian princefs in her tent confen
phllofophers
With fifty of your Icarn'd
with fuch eloquence (he does perfuade,

To

1

;

to examine by comparifon

Shakff care's Olbellc.

To difclofe the ftate of the confcience

3.

to the prieft, in order to repentance and

pardon.
If our fin be only againft God, yet to confefs it

to his miailier may be of good ufc.
JVake's Prefarati'M for Death,

To give

;

to bellow :

with on before

him who receives the gift.

To

5.

Reft to the limbs, and quiet 1 c:ifer
H'alUr.

7.

thodoxly fettled, as cannot be qucftioned without
danger to our religion, which hath been fealed
with the blood of fo many martyrs and conftfj^ri.

Bacon: Advice to l''iltiers.

Was not this an excellent confeffor at lead, if
;

SiiHingfltet,
not a martyr, in this caufe ?
The pati™ce and fortitude of a martyr or <'.•feffir lie concealed in the flouriihing times of
Aldifins Sfcflator,
Chiiftianity.
It was tiie alTurance of a rtfurrcdlion that give
patience to the conf^hr, ahd courage to the mar.

to avow ;• to profefs ; not to

Which lie conftfj'eih to he manifold,

and he receives
them J the firft produces love, and the lalUngrajtrbuthml's Hiftory of John Bull.
titude.
:

confijfid ^aai, without being croctrned, if they can

8.

make up their happinefs withoutTt.
To (hew ; to prove ; to atteft.

Locke.

Tall thriving trees confifi'd the fniitful mold;

The redd'ning apple ripens litre to gold.
Pofe's Odyffey.

with /o.
of the parts

ShaUffeare.

They may iiave a clear view of good, great and

TiHotJtn.
benefits,

any way your good dcferts forgot.

Huibids you psnie your gri.cfs.

9. It is ufed in a loofe

He that hears confeffions, and prefcnbes
rules and meafures of penitence.
Sec tiiat Claudio
Be <!)tehilcd by nine to-morow morning :
Bring him his ccnfeffir,itt him be prepai'M;
For that 's the utnioll of his pilgrimagci fliihilfm
It you find any fii that lies heavy upor. you,
di/burthen yo»rfclf of it into the bofum of jeur
ccnfefpir, who (lands between God and you' to pray
Taylor.
for you.
One muft be truftcd j and he thought her &t.
As pafling prudent, and a parlous wit,!
To this la>;acious eenfeffr be went.

If that the king

'There is not the'lftft intimation in fcripturr
church.
of this privilege conferred itfon the Roman

Ro^irs,

tyr.

2,

To grant; not to difpute.
Have

a confeffor.

The doilrinc in the thirty-nine articles is U or-

heaven ; but whofoever (hail deny me before men,
hiiii will I alfo 8eny before my Father which is in
Matt. x. 32, 33.
heaven.

Souil'.

him.
__
ttpcn
_

The clofcnefs and compaflncfs

it, is

Whofijcver therefore {hall confefs me before men,

Coronation to a king, confers no royal authority

To contribute; to conduce

Di^.
the prieft fits to hear confeflions.
Confe'ssor. n.f. [conffffeur, French.]
1. One who makes profelfion of his faith
He who dies for
in the face of danger.
religion, is a martyr; he who fuffers for

him will I confefs alfo before my Father which is in

Clarendon.

treafe the credit he had.

3.

Addtjcn oH Italy*

Confe'ssionary. n, f. [confejjionaire,
Fr.] The confeflion-chair or feat, whdre

deny.

The confer! ing this honour ufen him would in-

Thou conferrrft the

In one of the churches 1 faw a pulpit and «»-

•

Cn troubled minds.

The

fifftonal, very finely inlaid with lapis-lazuli.

Mdifon's S;>eSlalor.
hear the confeflion of a penitent, as

To own

[French.]

hear the declarations of his penitents.

a priell.
6.

«. /.

feat or box in which the confeffor fits to

confcjjing herfelf to this celebrated father.

Raleigh.

z.

faith are comprifed.

Confe'ssional.

It is ufed with the reciprocal pronoun.
Our beautiful votary took the opportunity of

4.

A formulary in whidi the articles of

4.

Prior.

'Tis thou art chang'd.

2. It has of before the thing confeffed,
when it is ufed reciprocally.
CoB/i/j thee freely 0/ thy fin;
For to deny each article with oath,
Cannot remove nor choke the ftrong conception.

The words in the eighth vcrfe, conferred with
the fame words in the twentieth, make it manifeft.
If we confer thcfe obfervations with others of the
like nature, we may find caufe to rcftify the gencBofle.
fal opinion.
Pliny conferring his authors, and comparing their
workl together, found thofe that went before Iran,
Smtin.
fcribed by thofe that followed.

That loves his miftrcfs more than in ccrfJ:: 1,
And dare avow her beauty ard her worth
In other arms than h«rs ; to him this challengei

own a

Shakefpeare' s Merry IVivei of Ifind/er.
Human faults with human grief «n/</i ;

v. a.

with other things of the fame kind.

_

Shakespeare.

Dryden's Tyrannic Love.

To compare

to

failure.
He doth in fome fort cmfefs it.—^If it be coa^
feffed, it is not redrelTed.

That they ate captives to her reafons made.

8.

iT/ra. vi. 13.
If there be ore among.1 the fair'll of Greece,

confeffiont

fiteor, confeffum,

Whom

9'o Confe'r.-

Latin.]
acknowledge a crime ;

•

Cokfe'ssion. n.f. [from confefs.']
X, The acknowledgment of a crime; the

cn pisafure t» him that maketh true account of

Confe'rrer. n.f. [from confer,']

ccnfej^ed,^

Avowedly ; indifputably ; pndeni^bly.

What palTion

2.

;

is gene to

the priejl to confefs.

Confe'ssedly. adv. [from

hangs thefe weights upon my
tongue
fpeak
I cannot
to her ; yet flie urg'd conference.

Sbaktffiart's Richard III.

have frefli recruitj in (lore,
If our confederala can afford us more.
Drydcn't Mm:i.
N n. f. [confederation,
League; compaft of mutual

.

and piety movctli to be ir.ftruitois of others by
fometime of them it is taught, whom
the church hath called to the public, either reading

an ally.

1

to difclofe ; to reveal ; as, he

/hil grow (kilful in country matterf, if I have

Sometime tliey deliver it, whom privately zeal

ftitl

To make confefGon

To Confe'ss. v. n.

often conference with your fervanr.

CowrE'DBRATB. n. f. [from the verb.]
One who engages to fupport another;

Addijon em Italy.

formal difcourle ; oral difcuflion'

of any queftion.

Stv'ift,

by way of introduftion, or as an

affirmative form of fpcech.
I mull confefs 1 was mofl pleafed with abeautifiM
profpeS, that none of them have nieotioned.

Co'nference. »./. [conference, French.]
1. The adt of converting on ferious fub-

Poft'i Statiui.

Co N F E D E R a't

fenfe,

CUnvil'c.

of the union.

In a ccnftdtrau %var, it ought to be confidered
which party bai the deepeft fliare in the <juarrel.

We

CON

CON

CON

And tol*he*.

and uqimportant
I

'

Drydtni f*^>I'^f -P"'*
3-

H«

'

CON

Than I did truly find her, lUkcs this ring.
Rome, be as juft and gracious unto me.
As 1 am cosfidexttDi kind to thee.

erefbre ihould I leek.

Confe'stly. adv. [from confefi.']

5.

CoNFi'ciENT. adj. [^conficiens, Lat.] That
Dici.

caufes or procures ; effeftive.

Co'nfidant.

French.]'
perfon trufted with private affairs,

A

n. /.

[confident,

commonly with affairs of love.
Martin compofed his billet-doux, and intruftcd
ArbuttKOi and Foft.

it to his confJar.t.

Co'nfine. adj, [confinis, Latin.] Border-

Without doubt ; without

1

veracity ; reliance.
Society is built upon cnift, and truft apon confi-

oppoTedto ^eilion or timidity,
AUs, my lord,

Your wifHom is confum'd in ecnjijmtt s
Shulcffi.yjiius Cafar.

His times being rather profperous than calm,
.bad raifcd his cmfidenct by fuccefs. Bac. Htt.Vll.
He had an ambition and vanity, and a conf.derct
in bimfelf, which fometimes intoxicated, and rranfportcd, and expofed him.
Clartudoti.

of his
oppofed to modtfty.

3. Vitious boldnefs ; falfe opinion
:

Thefe fervent rtprehenders of things cftabliOied
ky publick authority, are alwayi confident and
bold-fpirited

men ;

but

their ccnfidtnce. for the

mod part, rifcth from too much credit given to
their

own wits, for vrhich caufe they arc feldom

free from errors,

Hooter, Dtdirathn.

4. Confcioufnefs of innocence; honefl boldnefs ; firmnefs of integrity.
Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have
we C'jnfidentt towards God.
i "Jobn, iii. ii.
Be merciful unto them which have not the confdcfice of good works.
i Efd. viii, 36.

Ben Jonfin.
It is ftrange how the ancients took up experiments upon credit, and yet did build great matters
upon them the obfervation of fomc of the belV
of them, delivered canfidentfy, is, that a veljcl filled!

Hammord en FunJamertalt.
T am conjld/nt, that very much may be done
towards the improvement of philofophy.

Boyle.

z. Pofitive; affirmative J dogmatical: as,
a confident talker.
3. Secure of fuccefs ; without fear of mifcarriage.

Both

valiant, as

men

death ; both
confident, as unwonted to be overcome.
Sidney,
Douglas and the Hotfpur, both together,
Are covfidint agaioft the world in arms.
dcfpifirg

Steiefftare'i Henry IV.

Be not cir.fident in a jilain way. Erel. xxxii. 21.
People forget how little they know, wlien they
grow confident upon any prefcnt

ftate of things.

Siutb.

4.

Without
limitj.

Vol. I.

fufpicion }

Uuftjng without

over the threlhold.—~-

come, you muft go vifit the good lady.
Sbakeff care's Coriolanus.
I had

been

As broad and gen'ra! as tl e caling air
But now I'm cabbin'd, ctibb'd, covfin'd, bound in.
Sbakfjfeare*

:

;

up to.

to tie

Children, permitted the freedom of both hanijs,
do oft times confine unto the left, and are not without great difficulty reftrained from it.
Broiun's Vulgar Errours,
Make one man's fancies, or failings,. «/yf;;;i^
laws to others, and convey them as I'uch to their

Co'NriDENTNEss. n.f. [from confide/!t,1^
Favourable opinion of one's own pow-i
ers ; affurance.

To reftrain

3.

with afhes will receive the like quantity of water aq
if it had been empty ; this is utterly untrue. Bacon,
Every fool may believe, and pronounce confi.
der.tly } but wife men will conclude firmly. SoKlb.

fucceeders.

Boyle,

Where honour or

JD/<ff.

Co N F c V R a't

vyhere

confcienc* iloes not

bind.

I
1
N . n. /. [configuratioti,
French,]
1. The form of the various parts of any
thing, as they are adapted to each other.
The difTerent efi'e^is of fire and water, which
we call heat and cold, refult from the fo difTering

No other tic (Iiall (hackle me;
Slave to myfelf I vriJl not be j

Nor Ihall my future! anions be canfind
By my own prefcnt mind.
Coivley,
If the gout continue, I confine myfelf wholly to
the milk diet.
Teinjile.
_

He is to fo»/fre-himfelf to the compafs of num-

configuration and agitation of their particles.

bers, and the (lavery of rliirnc.

Glan-vMe^s Scepfis.

Ko other account can be given of the different
animal fcctetions, than the dificrent configuration
and aftion of the iVlid parts. Arhuttnct onMmcntt.
There is no plaftick virtue concerned ia (haping
them, but the configurations of the particles whereof
they conlift.
ff^ood'WJrd.
2.

He it fo furc and totifidcnt of his particular election, as to refolve he can never fall.

I'll not

——Fy, you confine yourl'elf inoft unrcafonably

failure

felves raoft confidently boaft.

boldnefs, or fecurity.

AfTured beyond donbt.

any

or deficiency ;i
poiitively ; dogmatically.
Many men lead of all know what they thcm-

fufpefting

Juft eonfdtnce, and native rightcoufnefs.

Co'nfident. adj. [from confide. ]

to reftrain within certain limits.

Without appearance of doubt ; without

3.

To

To

The maid becomes a youth ; no more delay
Vour vows, but look, and terfidently pay. Drydcn.

And honour.
Mi/rcn't Farad'ift LoJI.
5. That which gives or caufes confidence,

I .

Latin.]
I.

With firm truft.

2.

South.

dcrtct of one another's integrity.

Dryden.

bound ; to limit: as, he confrtes his
fubjefb by a rigorous definition.
(hut up ; to imprifon ; to immure ;
z.

jitteriury,

2. Trull in his own abilities or fortune ;

own excellencies

place
Confining on all three.
j

[nrifidenlia, Latin.]

Do not go forth to day.

Betwixt heav'n, earth, and ikies, there ftands a

We (hall not be ever the left likely to meet) To Confi'ne. v,a. [coiifiner, Fr. confinis,

belief of another's integrity or

fecuritj-:

wi(i heav'n.
Miltcn's I'aradife Loft,
Full in the midft of this created fpace,

Cor/Titi

with ductk, if we do not expert it too confidently.'
Covgrci'C,

Firm

Half loft, I feek

What readleft path leads where your gloomy bounds

carriage.

in ; to put trult in.

fidi.

1.

:

of mif-

fear

Lirte.

ing upon ; beginning where the other
ends ; having one common boundary.
To Confi'ke. ti, n. To border upon ;• to
touch on different territories, or regions it has ".uith or on.

One

[fiom co/ifide.]

He aloiie won't betray, in whom none will cc>i~

Co'nfidence. n.f.

are no bodies.

Co'nfidently. ad-v. [from cotifident.]

To CONFI'DE. v. n. [confide. Latin.] To,
trilft

Bold to a vice; elated- with falfe opinion of his owu excellencies ; impudent.
trufled -with fecrets.
If ever it comco to this, that a man can fay of
his confidiiit, he would have deceived rae, be has
South.
faid enough.
You love me for no other end,
But to become my cirf.deni and friend ;
As fuch, I keep no fecret from your fight.
Dryden's jlurengau-ie.

Drcay cfPuty.

predominant in our nature.

as the idea of a foot, taken from bodies here,

to dillances beyond the confines of the world, whcie

Co'nfident. n.f.

concealment.
They addrcfs to that principle which is (onf.jily

the fun, is applicable to duration, where no motion
vCas ;

Sbjl'ef^care's Titus Aidromcus,

'

Un-

difputably ; evidently ; without doubter

Dryden's Failes.

The idea of duration, equal to a revolution of

Shakejfeart't CymlJine.

not concealed ; not difputed ; apparent.
Since the perfidious author (lands foi/t/? ?
This villain has traduc'd me. Ro'u.-c's Royjf C^rf.

And PhoJphor on the corfincs of the lii,ht.

No lefl'er of her honour ncnfidcul,

;

'

'Twii ebbing darknefs. paft rfie noon of night.

He, true knight,

Z)/'<.7.
3. He who confefles his- crimes.
Confe'st. adj. [a poetical word for coii/effed.'] Open ; known ; acknowledged

But V

CON

O N

.C

Dryden.

CoNFi'NELESs.a<j)'. [from corifine,] Boundlefs ; unlimited ; unbounded ; without
end.
Eftcem him as a latr.b, b*ing compar'd
V, ith

my confinelefs harms.

Hhaheff care's Marbeth.

The face of the horofcope, according to Confinement, n.f. [from f«;j/f/i,?.] Imprifonraent ; incarceration ; reftraint of

the afpefls of the planets towards each
other at any time.
To Confi'gure. f. a. [from figura, Latin.]

To difpofe into

any form,

liberty.

Our hidden foes

Now joyful from their long confinement rofc.

by

Dryden's f^rgif.

adaptation.
Mother earth brought forth legs, arms, and
other members of the body, fcattered and diftinft,
at their full growth ; which coming together, ce-

The mind hateS reftraint, and is apt to fancy
itfelf under confinemcni

jtddifin.

menting, and l^ configuring themfclves into human
(hapc, made Ixfty men.

BentUy'% Sermoni.

CO'NFINE. ,,./. [co^fnis, Lat.

It had

formerly the accent on the lall fyllable.
j
Common boundary ; border; edge.
Here in thrfi- confine! Ilily have 1 lurk'd.
To watch the wainiiig of mine incmiei.

,

Youaieolu:
Nature in you ftands on the vcty verge

Of her confine.

Sijhrfpeare^i A'i/J^ LfOr,

The confines of the river Niger, whcrc the negr«c» are, «T« well wJtCfW.

finement of fome, as the liberty of others,

Bacin,

/idd'don,

Confi'ner. n, /. [hom confine.']
1.

A borderer; one that lives upon confines ;

,

Sltelnj'fearr's Ritbird UI.

when the light is pent up.

As to the nuraben who are under reftraint,
people do not fcem fo much furprifed at the con-

one that inhabits the extreme

,'parts of a country.

The fenatc hath li'vct'i up the corfincrs.
&baltejpeai e' s Cymhelitth

^

Happy confiners you of other lands,
Thit (hift your foil.
DanieTs Civil ffar,
2.
near neighbour.
Though gladnefs and giief be oppofite in nature, jct they ate fuch ncighbouij aiid owners in

A

3

C

art.

'

art, th»t

Ae le»ft touch of a peneil Vill tranflare »

J..

One whkh touches upon two difFercnt

next place, per formed by confirmalUn ; a moft profitable ufage of the church, tranfcribed from the
praSice of the apoftles, which confifts in two parts
the child's undertaking, in his own name, every
part of the baptifmal vow (having firft approv:d

regions.

The

participles or (on/inert between plants and

living creatures are fuch as have no local motion

Bacov.

fuch as oyfters.

Confi'kity.

». /.

DiiJ.
\(onf.rmi>,

Confirma'tor.

So was Ks will
Pronounc'd among the gods, and by an oath,
Which (hook heav'n's whole circumference, unMuton,
firm-d.
Whilrt all the ftars that round her bum.

tovjirmo,

to eftablifli either perfons or

The opinion derlveth the complexion inm tUa
deviation of the fun, and the con^agration of all-

Confi'rmedn£3s. n.f. [from coHfirmd.]

BrovnCi Vulgar £rr:>urs-'
things under Phaeton.
Next o'er the plains, where ripea'd barvefta
grow,

F-.inelius never cured a confirmed pox without it.

that confirms ; one that produces evidence or ftrength ; an attefter ; an eftablifher.

'

Shakijfeare' t King John.
Then fpeak again.
The oath of a lover is no ftronger than the word

of a

tapfter :

they are both the confirmers of f Jife

ties.

That treaty, fo prejudicial, ought to have been
Swi/V.
remitted rather than confirmed.
_

To CONFI'SC ATE. -v. a.

purpofe, or opinion.
Cjnfrmd then I rcfolve,

Adam Ihall (hare with me in blifs or woe. Miltm.
They 11. iheir ftaie though firm, ftood more cotMilton.

firm-d.
Believe and be nnfrm'd.

f.

Mi/lon-

To admit to the full privileges of a
Chiiftian, by impofition of hands.
thus confirmed, arc thereby
fuppofed to be fit for admiffion to the (acrament.
Hammond^) Fundaminrals.

Thofe which

are

CoNFi'RMABLE.c^i/. [from Confirm.] That
which is capable of inconteftible evidence.
It may receive a fpurious iranate, at is eonjtrmcble oy

ma y exan-.p!es.

Brotvn t Vulvar Rrroun.

Confiima'tion. n.f. [from ce»/fr»i.]
1. The aft of eftablilhing any thing or
perfon ; fettlement ; eftablifhment.

able to forfeiture.
i. e.

fifquer,

from

Sttkijptare' I i/fflry VUI.
2. Evidence by which any thing is afcer-

tained ; additional proof.

A

lalfe report hath
Honour'd v'lflacinfirmauott your great judgment.

Shakijfeare.

his whole

ellate confiscated

tcrfirmaika in a matter fo
tonfiimable, their aiBrmation carricth but flow
Brnon.
perfuafion.
Thr arguments brou|ht by Chrift for the ccn.

trm.uian of hi* defUioc, were in themfclvcs fuffi^»'"^citnt.

To

;

Bare unhoufed trunks,

To the con^ifling elements expos'd,
Anfwer meer nature.

Si,jte/feeire's timvi.

You Ihall hear under the earth a hirrible tliundering of fire and water conjli^ing together.
Bacon't Natural Hifiory,
man would be content to ftrive with himfelf,
and conjliS with great difficulties, in hopes of a
Tilhtjonm
mighty reward.
Lalh'd into foam, the fierce Cjnflifling brine
Seems o'er a thoufand raging waves to burn.

A

TiioB/is.

Co'wflict. ir./.

fyllable.

Confisca'tjon. n.f. [from confifcate.']

/«Kr and a true penitent.

feSura, Lat.]
tion ; a comfit.

A fweetmeat

;

a confec-

fome houfcs wherein
wiB galh«r inuitld more titan in

It is certain, thjt there be

Bactn.

be fuch a anf.ili or cbuUiwere fcarcc two more contrary

bodies in nature.

Boyle.

A combat

It is

v.ill

a fight between two.
feldom ufed of a general battle.
;

The lucklefs confliU with the giant ftout,
Wherein

captiv'd, cf lif:

or death be Aood in

doubt.

Spenjer,
It is

Whom in this

Decay cf Piety

Co'nfiture. n.f. [French; from con-

confiturti and f iei

2.

Baeon'i Henry VU.

himfelf.

tion, as if there

tartar, and there

goods of criminals to publick ul'e.
eye, what great forfeitures and cinffcaiUni he had at that prcfcnt to help

Latin.]

fubftances.
Pour dephlcgmed fpirit of vinegar upon fait of

forfeited

It was in every man's

\confli3tis,

A violent coUifion, or oppofition, of two

1

Are, by the laws of Venice, confij'cate
Unto the rtatc of Venice. Stat. Merch. of Venice.

of transferring the

;

:

adj. [ from the verb.]
Transferred to the publick as forfeit.
The accent in Sbakejpeare is on the firft

others.

;

to couteud ; to encounter ; to

properly by ftriking againft
engage
one another.

CoNFi'scATE.

aft

Latin.]

CONiLl'Cr. -v.n [covfligo, Lat.]
To ftrive to contcil to fight to
ftriiggle ;

Dry den s Juvenal.

The

[fffff/fcAKra,

A bending or turning.

By thiir own worth confijcated to him.

A wide difi'erence there is between a meer con-

Wanting frequent

A

Confle'xure. n.J.

houfes pulicJ down.
Whatever fifli the vulgar fry excel,
Belong to Caefar, v.hercfoe'er they fwim,

promifed not tO do any thing which bcfecmed not
KnolUt'i Hjficry.
latiantmen.
_
^

The iweeteft harmony is, when every part or
inArument 'is not beard by itfelf, but a ccnjiaiim of
Bacon,
them all.
cafting or melting of metal.
2.

be banilhed, and
and feiaed, and his
Macon.

Co'nfitekt. »./. [conjitins, Lat.] One
confeffing ; one who confefTes his faults.

Proof} convincing teftimony.

together.

It was judged th;U he (hould

The fea-captalns anfwered, that they would perform his command and, in anfirmatini thereof,
J

may havi. interBentUys Sermcns,.

generally taken for the fire which
confume.this world at the confummation of tilings.
Confla'tion. n./. [confatum, Latin.]
The acl of blowing many inltruments
1

tonymically the emperor's treafure, becaufe it was anciently kept in fuch hampers. Ccaw//.] To transfer private property to the prince or publick, by way
of penalty for an offence.

Thy lands and goods

With brother's love 1 do it.—
And let hcav'n
Witnefj how dear 1 hcW this covfirmatiini

3.

[confifcare, con-

in publicum addicere ;

fifcus, which originally fignifieth a hamper, pannier, bafket, or freil ; but me-

Em b ace and love this roan.
..

religious profelfion of celibacy,

rupted.
2. It is

Shakejfeare.

reckonings.

Cokfi'scable.<j^. [fiom ce«J!/cate.] Li-

To fettle or ftrengthen in refolution, or

Addif'.n't Ovid,
MankiiKl hath had a giaduafincreafe, notwithand
ccfijiagrjtii>nsj
rrd the
ftanding what flools

{hall

Be tliefe fad fighs confrmen of thy words ?

Kc ^'r;*/ uvd i)ut till be was a man
The which no fooner had his prowefs ccrfirm'd,
But !ite a man he died. ShAeJftan'i Mrchiath.
or
5. To ftiengthen by new folennnities

The running anfiagratitm fpreads below.

Decay of Piciy.

Gonfi'rmer. nf. [from confirm.l One

To complete; to perfeft.

fpreading over a large

ellabiilh-

the difficulty.

to radicate.

fire

f conjlagratio,

n, /,

Giving additional tellimony ;

If the difficulty arile from the confirmednefs of
habit, every reliltancc weakens the habit, abates

H^ifiman.

%.

Latin.]
1. A general
fpace.

Shakeff.Hcn.Vl.
;

Conflacra'tio.n.

Confirmed ftate ; radication.

I confirm thee in the high priefthood, and ap
• Mac. xi. 57.
point thee ruler.
Confirm the crown to roe and to mine heirs.

3. To fix

Then raife
From the eanfagrant mafs; purg'd and re6n'd,
New heav'ns, new earth. MiltoM'i Paradife L^,

coiifirm.]

adj.

ing with new force.

things.

"

[from

Burning together; involved in a general fire.

[from

Confi'rmatory.

planets in their turn.

Confirm iui tidings as they roll,
And tf read the truth from pole to pole.

4.

n, /.

An attefter ; he that puts a
Latin.]
matter paft doubt.
There wants herein the dcfinidve nnfirmator,
and teft of things uncertain, the fenfe of man.
Brmvn's Vulgar Emurs,

I Ccr» i. 6.

To fettle ;

Or elfe for ever be anfxrd here,

A m»rble moomnent! Sbak. Meafurefir Meafure,
Con fla'c RANT. ad/, [conftagrans, Lat.]-

Hammond at Fandatnenti'Js.

tion,

The tellimony of Cbrift was cmjirmtd in you.

And all tlic

As this is uue.
Let me in fafety raife me from my knees ;-.

but as a witnefs to tclVify his entering this obliga-

Latin.]
1. To j)ut paft doubt by new evidence.

To CONFI'RM. V. a.

TaCoNFi'x. v. a. [configo, coHfixum, Litiu.]
To fix down ; to faften.

htmfelf to underftand it) ; and to that porpofe,
that he may more folemnly enter this obligation,
bringing fome godfather with him, not now (as in
baptifm) as his procurator to undertake for him,

Latin.]

[««/'.-//«/,

Nearncfc ; neighbourhood ; contiguity.

2.

We

What is prepared for in catechifing, is, in the

_

contiin 1 corfiture houfc, wbeic we make aM
fweetmeats, dry and moift^ and divers pleafant
Bjitn,
wines.

An eccfeiiaftical rite.

H^otiin.

crying into a Uughirg lace.

3.

CON

CON

CON

my father's face.

coirfiill 1

unawareji have kiU'd.
Sbaktfpeare,

3.

Comcft ;

contention.
kind of merry war betwixt fignior

ftrife ;

There is a
Benedick and her : they never meet but there 's a
Alas! he gets
iklrmilh of wit between them.

—

In our bft cenftiSI, four of his
Shakefpeare^
five wits went tilting ilf.

nothing by that.

4.

Struggle;

CON

C O I^
m^ anfmrnUe anti

+• Struggle; agony; pang.

No alFurance touching viftorics can make prefait f5)i^;3i fo fwfset and ea/y, but nature will
ihrirkfrtrr tr.err.
^'

,

z. It

gJTat cbacgr, with what la'

-

he accomplifli it !

Th'-nneijui! confiia then, as angels look

o

3.

Tb^mfitCs Semmer.

dominion over the re:t,
the very ctmfiuinct of ali thole rivers

4.

iKi Paradife. Rjldzb's Hf..cf:ttW'^;d.
\s faenrith tht c^aaxt of Tigris and

m

£«,%.

5-

ShaMftari.

Some come to make meny, becaufe of the can-

•

one place.
parts of the country.

corroboration.
For corroboration ind
corfcrtai-m, take fuch
bodies as are of aftrinsent
quality, without mani.

(eaccld.

:

confunJo, Lat.]

To mingle things fo that their feveral

I.

is

taiaty.

•

Running one into another ; meeting.

.

Thefe conjliitnt ftreams make fome great river's

I.

Co KFLOX. It./, [nnfiuxia, Latin.]
The anion of feveral currents; concourfc.
Knots, by the nrf.ux of meeting fap,
InfeS the found pine ^nd dive.t his grain.
Shai.

cording to thtir different

IZ

M'.

'•

"T"

the Cliriftians,

ai

Deniand of them wherefore they
themfclvei m;. the order of the
churc h ?
T->
-v. n.

cnf^ a,^l

Confo'rm.

Hc-Jtr.

To comply with

;
aftoniih j
to ihlpity.
So fpakethe Son of Cod and
;
Satan ftood
w.]ile as mule, coff«,ndtd
what to fay.

A

.,

that complies wijh the
worlhip
church oi England ; not a

One

.

,

He trembles, lie glows,
Amidft Rhodopes fnows.

n,it';:c.-

Pife'i'Sr. CrriS*.

To deilroy ; to overthrow.

.

The fweetcft honey

Is loithfome in its own
delitioufnefs.
in the tafte t^«,„d, the

And

appetite.

""^"""^ ''^
rt'u ?

diileater.

*

Defpairing, ccnfixndcd.

of the

They «ere not' bbth nbnconformias,

Milton's ParadifeSegaituX.

Now with furies furrounded,

'

^

SlcitTp.

*>" ''^»" ^°^^ 'hwe

- Let t!>rm be ligfandtd in all their
po^w^ani
W^ght, and let their ftrength be
broken.

io deep

a, malice to cmfiuwd the
race
binuluude; refemblance ; the
Ot mankind in one root.
Hate of
^/,„
having the lime charafter
of manners CoNFo'trvDED. particip. adj.
[from con.
or form.
fouftd.] Hateful; detellaWe;
Bj the knowledge of truth,
enormous;
and exercife of virodious
a low cant word.
tue, nian, amongtt the
crea^Jte3 of thii world,
A
moftrsn/iuwfc^teafon for h« bmtiSi concep-'
alpir.sth to the gteatell
re»/"»TBi/ji with God.

I.

:

:

to > jeld : with to.

Amonsmaokiud/o few there are,
„Vr bo wilK «,/,„ „ philofophitk
fare. Dr^J. Ju-v

.COKFORMASLE. aJj. {hom confo,m.\
Having the fame form ; ufing the

To throw into confternation ; to perplex ; to terrify ; to amaze to

.

with

n^ to the pattern of the

\.

H'v'^icard', Kj!:,ral HUUri.

-which Ihe did like. Si,/™^. Conformity,
n.f. [from conform.
:

I am yet to think, that
men find their fimpl.
ideas agree, though, indifcourfe,
they «,/„,rf o„e
an)ther with difterent names.
Loeii.

of producing fuitablenefs, or
conformity, to any thing : with
to.

Then fntloKred that moft natural eBefl of <•«.

'!
?""'''

tinft words or notions.

acl

CON-FO RMtsT. n.f. [from conform.]

fhapc,

el;"e :

Lockt.

natural

Que religion arU m.^rality, are thing's
of more
confoquence than the farnifure of
undcritanJing.

marks m<S

To dillurb the apprehenfion by indif-

}.

duties of

B.ucx'i Sjrarai H'Jl^rv

To reduce to the like
or manner, with fomething

1 he

fame
manners; agreeing either in exterior
or
moral charaflers; iirailar; relembling.

,

C

llf«krr.

Sir, I have heard anotiicr

,

Judge not what is beft
_
By p^afure, though to nature fc-niirg
Created as thu art to mbl-r ;nd,

,«,/

fimplc idtJs.

ftory i

meift 5

He was a moft canfiandtj Tory.;
And grew, or he fs much belied,

(''ffcrmitj

m Co V Fo'u N D E D x.r.iidz'. [from confo,,nd/j.-\

Ettrem^j duM before he died.
'

''

Luki.

Swlfu

Hatefully ; fhamefully : a low
or ludi-

^

^

.

ule tor them, but
emfcundihem with words, mu*
have epdlels difpute.

Virtue and vi^e, fi„ a„a bolinefj,
and tlie r«Jtrmmtnn of our hearts and lues rt the

Variety of tunes djth Jilp >fe the
_
fpirlts to »a.
nety of pa4ionsrMi/lnn Bnte diena.

]

They who ftrip not ideas from the

'

wearing Uie

uL
appearance,

A

a flruQuie and
^"•h, as that the fire may
pafj
...jcle,, it then readily
ijct. out.

-

MOtm.

to compare or mentito

fluid body and a wetting
liqoor are wo»t,
becaufe they agree in many
things, to be r«Jatndtd.
g ,

Wh'-'c there hippens to be fuch

ten.

fpheres rar/m,/.

.,

without due diftinftion.

conformation.

Varieties a,e found in the
different
Oiapcj or the mouth, and
feveral

general cr'f-jx and concou-fe of the whole peopir, ftrci^hter'' "^

To CONFCTRM. ,.. a. [co.f^rmo.

—
1.2. To perplex;
'

as. Ugbt tf

cfirmatkr, of

Afiiin.

0» 8crceft oppoCtion, in mid (ky
Should combat, aaAthdrjarting

u Ttji,a<dfrcm bodiu, ac-

He (juiclcly, by the

_^

:

»,

Two planets rufhing from afoeS malign,

nmformablj ft, this defil

The form of things, as relating to each
other ; the particular texture
and coiififtence of the parts of a body,
anddieir
aijatiit colours

Crowd; mulritade coTleftfd.

fuming the lame .«brm ;
fame ibrra ; reicmbling.

cer

j^.

difpofition to make a whole

1,

CoNFo RM. aJj..[ca.iform;j, Latin.]

Ipeech.

matio, Lat.]

head,
Byftores ftill melting and defcendiag fed,

What.-wyiM .ffijrngfbrth, orentVinp m.

dil'cerned.
Let us go down, and there covhurj
their Un,
guage, that they may not underftand
oneanother-j

Ccnforma'tion. -./[French; c>h'Z'.

:

To die gates caft ronnd thine eye, ^

all

.

I have treated of the fex

At length, &> make their vario-js currents one,

The congregated floods together run

forms or natures cannot be

•

So a man obferre the agreement of
his own
imagmationi, and talk unfarmahly, it

Bac^:, Natural mil,rf.

I

To CONFCrUND. „. a.
[confondr,. Fr.

5

With conformity ; agreeably'; fuitably
It has ti.
y

CCmPLUENT. adj. {cenJlHens, Latin/)

\.

low Latm word.] Collation
of nrength

Compliant ; ready to follow direftions

Chr,«ua fpirit.

be iniinided hour to rate all
"It «i;i concentre into tiie teiicity
hich ihall be made uv of the nn-

the eflV*

CoNFORTA TiON. n. /. [from ccrforto, 3

CONFORMABLY. aJv. [from csii/oraatleA

there

fuat,:, ,-c.-r:t:ijc, and perpetuity of ail true joys.

,

«tfi the noooas of Hippocrates.

dcvooon, and the well-tempered
aeol of the true

4. CoUedtion'; concurrence.

/,-irm,o-

Many inrtmces prove the conformitj of

u^t^r
Such dehifions are reformed by a
cttfirnmbic

TantU.

q

Coofifteney.

her-

'

This will draw a nrfaact of people from all

wooden dark hoqfes fall

to decay.

4.
,0

Tdlcfin.

Cz„f,rm.ty in building tn other civil
nations, hath
difpoled us to let Qur old

not oppofite '

.•

us to

Decay ofPktv.
J
' >

/.m,«/.God.

For all the kingdoms of the earth
to yield
themfclves wUlingly c«/r«ui,V, in
whauvcr iVould
be required, it was their duty.

Bjcon fs l^iXurt.

2.

fuitable

God.

In fome to.

We cannot be otherwU: happy frat by onr cm.

her

At aU time to yoor will tcnfurmakU,

A coocourfe ; a muldtode crowded jnto

we

3.

fubmjffive ; peaceable ; obfequioire.
I've been to you a true and
humble viife.

Bacen.

Vou had foaad by cxpenence the trouble of all
meo't cmfauicc, ana for all matters to your&lf.

r.-.jv

The end of all religisn is but to draw

a c^f:rm,ty iiitb

but

;

0/ a great genias, with many
lapfcs, are preterable to the
works of an inferiour
author, fcrupuloully eiafl, and
cc^-.rviahU so all
the rules of correft wiiting.
MJisn.

. „. crowding to a place.
Vo« fee this arjiatnce, this great flood of vifi-

Wc
g«

the

model to which the conformity is made.

I be produOions

2. 1 :.

fume of all loru.

Agreeable ;

Nature is very coa&nant iaionfirw.alle

'

«»"•

rc«>^

^huthnct,

-

Sometimes 'with, not iinproperly

confiilent.

Eitirites.
Brtreaxud
Largusget.
•» tl*' «Ji>S insmmtrable little rivntets ha-.-e
-ato the great vein, thecommor.
ch_
.loofl.

*"

This metaphor would Sot have
been fo «.-.era!
h.d there not been a
between the mental
tafte and the fenfitive
ta«e.
MJif^^'s Sfta^ur.
2. It has in fome
authors tvit/l) before

way of writmg, perteelly cnfcrguble
viith that
charafier we find of her.
jtUifo.; &p.aa,,r.

HtJinrod, who ufurpej
A-! in

that with

The fragments of Sappho give ns a tafte of

.

:

,

commonly to before

to is tiled with the verb.

Co'kflcence. «./ \^conjluo, Latin.]
i
The janflion or uni«n of feveral llreams.
/it

[

.

Meaner,

which there is agreement.
He gives a reafon icrfcrmaiU to the principles.

R'.^ni.

He perceiv'd
Chj dying faints.

u

,

has

t

wu to ceafe at the coming

'"

ofClrift'
ofChrift.

Hxhr.

^

bour an>.

CON

The Gentnei were not

crous vroxd.

iCi

Vao

And fiw the fmoaking tops csnfm'dly rife

A hideous ruin

Thy fpecuUtJoiu tcjin to fmell confeumltjly of

their fmaller parts from one another.

NnattnU OfticU.
Heroes and heroines fliouts confut'dly rife,

deilroys.

Confrate'rnity.

n./.

And bale and treble voices ftrikc the ikios.

[from (tin and

fratcrnitas, Latin.]

A br-orherhood

body of men united

far

;

a

We find days appointed to be kept, and a coifraI

I

The a£l of rubbing againll any

CUi tndoK.
4.

Tumultuouffy ; haftily ; not deliberate-

fiaftical benefices, had, in ancient rimes,

ly ; not «xa£lly.

the free appointment of all ecclefiaftical
dignities ; invefting them S\r& per baculum
annulum, and afterwards by hi*

CoKPu'siON. n. /. [from confufe.']
Irregular mixture ; tumultuous medley.
God, only wife, to punifli pride of wt,

Among men's wits hath this confufien wrought

Dry Jen' i P^irgil.
TKe' deadly (hoke defcended.
ftand face to face, in oppofition to
2.

As the proud tow'r, whofe points the clouds did

To

3. Tooppofe one evidfence to another in

cavetto, which ferves to

Tumult

which joins the Ihaft of the column to
Chambers.
the cinfture.

;

diforder.

Hooka; Preface.
of order and of peace.
This is a happier and more comely time.
Than when thefe fellows. ran about the ftrcets
Shakrjfeare' i Ceriolanut.

Crying cenfufun.

To compare one thing with another.
When 1 tmfrtmt » medal with a verfe, I only

4. Overtltrow ; deftruftion.
Shall draw him in to his confufion.

Confronta'tion. »./.

[French.]

Aftonifliment ;

5.

diftraftion

of

To diforder

;

[coTifufus.

ShakeJ^eare,

SfeSaior.

[fiom cok/uU.] Poflible to be difproved ; poflible to be fliewn
falfe.

At the bit day, that inquifitor Oiall not prefcnt

Thus roving on
In ccnfiii'i march forlorn, th' adventurous bands
View'd firil their lamentable lot, and found

to God a bundle of calunuiics, or confmable accufations ; but will offer unto his omnili:ience a true

No

lift

Milieu.

of our tranfgi-effions.

Brown.
[confutatio, Latin.]

Confuta'tion. »./
The aft of confuting difproof.
A confutation of atheilm from tlic frame of the

At length an univetfal hubbub wild,

;

Of (tunning founds and voices all conjut^d^

Bentley.

world.

Biirne through the hollow dark, aflaults bis e.ir,

To CONFU'TE. w. a.

A/i/fen.

[confute^

Latin.]

To perplex, not diftinguiOi; toobfcure.

To convift of errour or falfehood

We may have a clear and dilUnil ioca of the

difprove.

many thing*, though our ideas of

to

When water congeals, the furface of the ice ia
fmooth and level,

In a mixed mafs ; without reparation.

1

,

clot formed by congelation; concretion.
Enter the city, clip your wives, your friends ;
Tell them your' feats, whilft they with joyful tean
Wafti the congealmcnt from your wounds.
Shakeffeare's Antony and Cleopatra.

Con oe'l ABLE. adj. [from congeal.']

Suf-

ing its fluidity.
'ihe confiftencies of bodies arc very divers
dcnfe, rare, tangible, pneumatical, fixed, hard,

not congelable, liqucfiable, not liBacon.
The chymifts define fait, from fome of its properties, to be a body fixable in the fire, and congel~

foft, con^elahle,

quefiable.

Souib.

Aft of reverence bow courtefy.
The ciptain falutes you with «n^/ profound.
And jour ladyfliip curt'fies halfway tu the ground.

able again by cold into brittle glebes or cryftals.
Arhuthnot on AUnicKtSt

;

;

Sti:ift.

RaUigb^s Ilijlory,

2,

Burnet's Tbenj.

Conge'alment. »./. [from f«»^<a/.] The

CO'NGE. n.f. {conge, French.]

CONFu'sEDLY. at/v. [from CBIt/u/ii/.]

of the water was

ceptible of congelation ; capable of lof-

mud be the height of woe.

Pipe't Statius.

as the furface

before.

when he dies, to find himfelf «wi/i<f«i in the flames,

dnfuCi and fadly (lie at length replies.

To concrete; to

filver wrapt in linen, and it will fix and run no
Bacon.
more, and endure the hammer.

Ccnfute, change h.'nds, and ftlU confute. Hudihras.
For a man to doubt whether there be any hell,
and thereupon to live as if there were none, but,

4. To hurry the mind.

a. Indiftinftly ; one mingled with another.
The inner court with horror, noife, and teari
CcnJ'ut'dly fill'd } the women's ihrieks and iries
Dinham.
TJk atcbcd vaulM [e-cUw>

;

It.

gather into a mafs by cold.
In the midft of molten lead, when it beginneth
to congeal, make a little dent, into which put quick-

He could on either fide difpute ;

their intimate elTencet and caufea arc very confuCd
W»ltii LsgiCk.
and obfcure.

Tliefe four nacions ate every where mixed in the
Scriptures, bccaufe they dwelt ccnfujtdly together.

Sbakeffcare's Richard IIIJ

To Conce'al. V.

O'ercome the pilot's art.

to difperfe irregularly.

To mix, not feparate.

!

Too much fadnefa hath congcai'd your blood.

When waves on waves, and gulphs in gulphs,

Lat.]

reft.

Oh, gentlemen, fee fee dead Henry's wound*
Open their cmgeal'd mouths, and bleed afrcfti.

mind ;

And tear in ev'ry heart.

The

face.

To bind or fix, as by cold.
!

Sbakefp. Mad.

,Confi*'table. fl^'.

Ta CONPU'SE. V. a.

I.

A

dnfupon dwelt in ev'ry face.

of bringing two evidences face to

cxiAence of

Should kindle fire by wonderful device ? S^rftTt
In whofe capacious womb
vapoury deluge lies, to fnow congeai'dt
tbomfoBi ffiaitirt

hurry of ideas.

yo» the fame dcfign executed by
AddiJM en Mcdnh.
hands.

3.

What more miraculous thing may be told.
Than ice, which is cor.gea^d with fenfclefs cold,

2.

The ftrength of their illufion,

different

fliew

2.

ftate.

3. Indiltinft combination.
The ecnfuf.an of two dill'ercnt ideas, which a
cuftomaiy connexion of them in thdt minds hath
made to them almoft one, fills their heads with falfe
vlews,and their reafonings with falfe confequences.

Sidney.

denial, but to juftify his cruel falfehood.

1.

To CONGE'AL. i/. a. [congclo, Latin.]_
To turn, by froft, from a fluid to a folid
1

Locke.

We began to lay his unkindneft unto him: he
feeuij himfelf m^titid by fo'many, vnnx. not to

feparate two
:
fuch is that

members from one another

•pen court.

aft

Co'nge. n.f. [In architefture.] A moulding in form of a quarter round, or a

God is not a God of fedition and cunfnfion, but

fwctM blows.

IPoint agaioft point rebellious, arm 'gainft arm.
Shattjfiare'i Matbtth.

for form's fake, finds a tongf d'tlire to her friends.
Sfeflator,

By tongues ctmfufion was to ruin brought. David.
2.

JHonkrr.
the Jews, and concur with them.
Blood hath bough: blood, and blows have an-

Strength match'd with ftrength, and power ronShaitjfeare'i King yobs.
fror.ud power.
Bellona's bridegroom, lapt in proof,
Ccifrtnlrtl him with felf eomparifons,

they chufe, demand of the king a conge
d'tlire, that is, licence to proceed to
CovitU.
eleftion.
A woman, when flie has maSe her own clioice,

hit,

another.

The Eaft and Weft churches did both eoit/nnt

certain forms and conditions ; as, that
they Ihould, at every vacation, before

Carrw't Survey if CurmoaU.
The caufe of the c.nfuydncji of our notions, next
AWij.
to natural inability, is want of attention.

1

He fpoka, and the* nrfr^Utt the bifll
A?d on his ample foreheio, uim'uig full,

made the eleftion over to others, under

cmfufcdncfi, and rather betokened a fucceffive office
than an el^blilhed dignity.

.

In procefs of time he

letters patent.

Want of diftinftnefs ; want of dearnefs.
Hithemuto thefe titles of honour carry a kind of

it hath been rcporttd, iJiat ivy h«th gjrown out
(lag's horn ; whicli thej; fupfofe did rather
come from a ar/rkatian of the, horn upon the ivy,
Bacon.
than from the horn itfclf.

;

&

ait the hidden betutiea of a. play, »rcbut<!if!/i./-'^6'
Drydtr..
judged in the vehemence of adion.
CoNFu'sEDNESS. ti. /. [from con/u/ed.]

of a

to face.

andfignU

of vacation, to chufe a bifhop. The
king, as fovereign patron of all archbiIhopricks, bifhopricks, and other eccle*

tiling.

To CONFRO'NT. v. a.Xciofronier, Fr.]
t. To Hand a^oll. another in full view

;

in common law, the king's permiffion royal to a dean and chapter, in time
fies,

The propriety of thoughts and words, which

Sfill}ngf.etv

Co N F R c a' T o N. »./. [from «aand frico.

4.

CO'NGE D'ELIREis French

Not clearly; not plwnly.
H« unftijtdjy and obfcutely delivered his opinion.

ttrnity eftabliihed for that purpofc, with the laws

of it.

Po/t.

1 have congttd with the duke, and done my adieu
with his nearcft. Sbak. All's v/ell that endt me/l,

3.

fome religious

purpofe.

Lit.]

Addifin on Italy.

I

To

take leave.

;

I viewed through a prifm, and faw them mt^ft
eonfufidly defined, fo that 1 could not diftinguifli

Aldfn's SfrfJjtcr.

CoNPo'uNDER. ft./, [fronicen/ourni.] He
who dilhjrbs, perplexes, terrifies, or

I

To Co'hob. v. n, [from the noun.]

On tnount Vefcvlus rtxt he fi»'d hii eyei.

Teu.are nnftjniulli given to fquirting uy »nd
L'Eftmnii.
down, »nd ch«tcrir.c.

woods and mtadbws.

CON

CON

C Q N

Comcela'tion. n.f. {horn congeal.]
I.

Leave ; farcwcl.
So courteous fon^/ both did give and take,
With right hands plighted, gltslies of go^d-will.

*

Fairy Siuetn.

Aft of turning fluids to folids by cold.
The cipillary tubes arc obftruSed either by outward comprsfiion or angelation of the fluid.
Ailutbntt «n Aliments.

There

CON
Thert are congehthiu of tha redundatit water,
precipitations, and many otlicr operations.

Arbutbnot o» j^'ir,

j

Conge'nerous. adj. [congener,

Of the fame kind ;
fame original.

arifiiig

No other doth properly con^laciate but water
for the determination

Co N G

Latin.]

I.

ate.]

from the

and other eongerrrous difcafes.
Arhutbr.oi on jlir.

A CI a't ion.

to the

clafs.

fame

'i'he telliclc, as is laid, is one

ac/j.

Moulded into a firm ball, of which the

late.]

fibres are not diftinftly vifible.

preffing participation of another's joy.

Fluids are feparated from the blood in the liver,
and the other conghhate and conglomerate glands.

Forth rufh'd in hafte the great confulting peers,
Rais'd from the dark divan, and with like joy
C^ngratulant approacK'd him,
Miltcn.

In a fperical form.

Dia.

I

A round body

truths feem, upon this account, to be congeniteWn'n
us, connatural to us, and engraven in the very
frame of the fouL
HaWi Origin oftianktnd.

Clan^ilU^s Scefjii.

Like things to like.
Milton's Paradife Left.
For all their centre found.
Hung to the goddefs, and coher'd around :

Not clofer, orb in orb cinghh'd, are feen

Hailed with glad precipitance, up-roli'd
As drops on duft congkhing from the dry,

Lat.]^

To heap up

;

[conglo-

Conglo'merate. adj. [from the verb.]

Conge'stible. aiij. [from congefl^ That
may be heaped up.
Diii.
Conoe'stiom. n.f [congefiio, Latin.] A
colleftion of matter, as in abfccfles and

tumours.

PJ'"-

CONCIARY. n.f

»,jeman.
[coHgiariitm, from con-

iiuj, a meafure of cori, Latin.]

A gift

Congra'tul ATORY. adj.

[from congraExpreffing joy for the good fortune oiF another.

tulate.]

To Conor e'e. -v. n. [from gre, French. J

To agree

;

to accord ; to join ; to unite.

Not in ufe.

linft.

Congreeing in a full and natural clofe.

P hilofo[>bical Principles.

Collefted ; nvifted together.
The beams of light, when they are
an-S congtomnaie, generate heat.

multiplied

Bacon's Nut. H:fi.

Conclomer a'tion, n.f. [from conglo-

^incy.

CcngtJIion IS then faid to be the caufe ot a
tu-

mour, when the growth of it is flow, anu without

The form in which joy for the happinefs of another is profefl'ed.

Put into parts, doth keep in one concent,

Chejne's

2.

2.

Gathered into a round ball, fo as that
the conftituent parts and fibres are difFluids are feparated in the liver, and the other
conglobate and conglomerate glands.

to gather together.

nefs or fuccefs of another.

.

pofed of innumerable fmall glands, each of whitli
confifleth of foft fibres, in a dlflina or feparatc
convolution.
Gmu's Cofmokgia.

S'yU.

'

with my country,
in advancing conUmift.

The aft of profefling joy for the happi-

Milton' i Paradife Loji.

The liver is one irtitconglmr.eralid gland, com-

To CONGE'ST. V. a. [congers, cong^fium,

cannot but congratulate

tulate.]

ball of thread ; to inweave into a round

1,

1

which hath outdone all Europe

1

mero, Lat.] To gather into a ball, like a

}VaItan'i AngUr,

To rejoice

in participation.

verfation,

as the mighty conger, taken often in the Severn.

of fevcral fizcs, and of all kinds of figures.

To Congra'tulatb. 1/. n.

Congr atula'tion, n.f. [from congra-

Thither they

mafs.

The air is nothing but a conreriei or heap of
fmall, and for the moft part of ffexible, particles,

themfelves, that the nature of our government,
and the ckmcncy of our king, fecure us.
Dryden's Preface to Aurengzebe.

To coalefce into a

•roCONGLO'MERATE. -v. a.

Spratt's Sernt.

The fubjefls of England may congratulate tt

Pope'i Dunciad.

^

To Conclo'be. v. n.
round mafs.

Many fi/h, whofe Biape and natnrt are much
like the eel, frequtnt both the fea and frefti livers

bodies heaped up together.

An eccteliallical union within yourfelves, 1 am

The buzzing bees about toeir dulky queen.

fea-eel.

Conce'ries. n.f. [Lat.] Amafs of fmall

the caufe of joy, and to before the perfon.

Then he founded, then tongLb'd

The

Latin.]

To

rather ready to congratulate to you,

.

of any fuch cor.gemie ipp.ehenfions ?

IVatts'i Lozick.

in a ball.

Did we learn an alphabet in our embrya-ftate ?

[cengrus,

2. It has fometimes the accufative cafe of

gather into a round mafs ; to confolidate

And how comes it ro fa's, that we are not aware

_ ^

or

become black.
Brcwn.

To Conclo'be. -v. a. [conglobo, Lat.]

[from congenial.]
Participation of the fame geniui ; coo-natioo of mind, or nature.
Conce'ni ALNESS, n./. [from congenia/.']
Cognation.
CoNCE KITE. aJj. [coagenitus, Latin.] Of
the fame birth ; born with another; connate ; begotten together.

To compliment upon any happy event ;
to exprefs joy for the good of another.
I congratulate Our Englilh tongue, that it ha»
been enriched with words from all our neighbours.

many fpecks,

In this fpawn are difcerned

He acquires a courage, and ftiffnefs of opinion,

intelleftual

Rejoicing in participation; ex«

Latin.]
1.

colleftion into a round

;

little congleiatuns, which in time

P:ipe.

CoKCER. n.f.

the power of
uniting wounds.
The ofteocoUa is recommended as a congfatinator

mafs.

Swift.

[from conglu-

That which has

thtate.]

large eonglobaleii

Co KG lob a't on. n.f, [from conglobate.

Smit with the love of fiiler arts we came.

and

Conglutin a'tor. n.f.

Cbtynt's Phi/ofopbieal Principles.

And met trngemal, mingling flame with dame.

of moral

wounds.

Co'nclobately. adv. [from conglobate.] To CONGRA'TULATE. t;. a. [gratulor,

UryJen't Dtilical, cfjwv.

GoNCENi a'lity. n. /.

Having the power of uniting

tinate.'\

of broken bones.
fVoodivard on Fijfih,
Cmu.
[from the verb.] Congra'tulant. adj. [from congratu^

tion.

Co'nolobate.

:

not at all congenial tv'ttb him.

Conglu'tinativb. adj. [from congiu-

gland, confilHng of fot't tibres, all in one convolu-

Partaking of the fame genius ; kindred ;
cognate in S-wi/t it is followed by luitli.

are fomcwhat artgenjalf and of a remote kindred to

To this elongation of the fibres is owing the
union or conglutination of parts feparated by a
wound.
Arbuthnot on Aliments.

for,

To CO'NGLOBATE. -v. a. [conglobatus,
Latin.] To gather intoahard firm ball.

D.-a.

nefs of our late fovcreign and mailer.
fVelioit,
You look w'lh pleafure on thofe things which

Bacon's Natural Hijiory.

f

The ftate of being changed, or aft

while it remained in a ffuid body, it was a fubjcil very unfit
for proper cor.glaciaticn.
Brown.

CONGE'NIAL. aJJ. [con andgenus, Lat.]
He fpiung, withuut any help, by a kind of ccngmal compofure, as we may term it, to the like-

The caufe is a temperate conglutination ; for
both bodies are clammy and vifcous, and do bri^e
the deflux of humours to the hurts.

Broiuns Vulgar Errcurs.
[from conglaci-

n.

fpirit, and lapidiiical principles ;

Concb'nerovskess. n.f. [from congenerout.]
The quality of being from the
fame original ; belonging

bodies; rc-union'i healing.

;

properly

It cryftal be a ftone, it is concreted by a mineral

Team extreme and lafling colds proceeds a great

Many conclufions

is

of changing, into ice.

Ervwn's Vulgar Errours.

your own conceptions.

quickfilver

ot"

fixation, and that of milk coagulation.

Thoi'e bodin, being of a migmerous nature, do
mdily receive the imprcffions ot their nature.

ruii of apoplexies,

To turn to ice.

Latin.]

kind or nature.
The cherry-tree has been often grafted on the
Milter.

Latin.] To cement ; to reunite ; to heal
wounds,
fo Conglu'tin ate. v. n. To coalefce;
to unite by the intervention of a callus.
Conclutin a'tion. ».y; [from conglutinate.]
The aft of uniting wounded

To CONGLA'CL'i.TE. 'v. ». [conglaciam,

CO'NGEKER. n.f. [Latin.] Of the fame
laurel, to which it is a angei^cr.

To CONGLU'TINATE. <!;.«. [conglutinn,

diery, originaUy in corn, afterwards in

We

Brrtvnl Vulgar Enoun.

hthn.

diftrlbuted to the Roman people or fol-

fee on them the emperor and general officers,
{landing as they diftributcJ a congiary to the foldiers or people.
AcUifan.

and

riMny parts in rivers and lakes, where there are
mineral eruptions, will ftiU perfift without cjnge-

CON

money.

S. State of being congealed, or made folid
by cold.

Many waters and fpringi will never freeze

CON

merate.^

For government.

Shakifpeare's Henry

To falute reciprocally.

Not in ulc.
My ofSce hath fo far prevaii'd,

That face to face, and royjl eye to eye.

You h.ive congrcetid,
Shakrfpejre's Henry V.
To CO'NGREGATE. -v. a. [congrego^
Lat.]

Colleflion of matter into a loofe ball.
2. Intertexture ; mixture.
1,

The multiplication and conglomeration of ibunds
datl> generate lurcfuilttoo of the air.

Batm't t^atural Hifitrj.

V»

To Co N G R e'e T. <v. n. [ from con and greet. ]

To colleft togetlier;. to ailemble ;

to bring into one place..

Any multitude of CIrrillian men. congregated,
may be termed by the name of a church. Hooker.
Thefe waters were afterwards ctngrrgated, and
called tlit fea.

Raleigh' i HtJIoty of tit IVorld.

Tempea*

'

km, and howling
winds.
The gutter'd rocks and enigrrgtittil dais,
As having fenfe of beauty, do omit
Sbtkefffort't OtbeUo.
^heir mortal natures.
The dry land, earth} and the great receptacle
Of ccirgrtgaleJ waters, he call'd leas ;
And faw that it was good. Milton's Paredifc h<fi.
Heat eengregalti bomogeneal bodies, and fcpa-

Thcfe planes were fo feparitcd as to move upon

Tempeft* themfelvct, high

lates hetcrogcneal ones.

CON

CON

CON

Suit.iblenefs ; agreeablenefs,

1.

2.

h'eaHon's OfyfUks,

Nnvtcni OplkhTo Co'ncregatb. v.ti. To afTemble; to
meet ; to gather together.

He rails,
Ev'n there where merchant* mod do tongregJte,
On me, my bargains. Sbuktfp. Mtrcb.if Vmcc.
"Tis true (as the old proverb doth relate)
Dtntani.
Xquals with equals often ccngrtgatc.

great incentive to their reception.

Clanville,

pertinence.

Fitnefs ;
A whole fcntcnce may
wanting one particle.

of its

eongru'ily by

Sidniy.

of argument;

Confequence

3.

fail

Being the objedt of conjeAtu-e i pofiiWe
to be gueffed,
Cokje'cturai,. adj. [from conje3ure.'\
Depending on conjeflure j faid or done

by guefs.

reafon

They'll fit by th' fire, and prcfume to know ^

confiftency.
With what congrttitf doth the church of Rome'
deny, that her enemies do at all appertain to the
church of Chiirt ?
Hooker.

Who thrives and who declines, fide iiSCioni, and
give out
CtnjeHural marriages.

Co'n c r u m e n t. n.f, [from cougrut."] Fitnefs ; adaptation.
Not in u<c.

Bacm^t Natural Hijicry.

riods in a fentcnce, hath almoli the fadening and

Sbake)p<aiit.

It were a matter of great profit, fave tbut 1 doubt
It is .too i-sn/'.flara/ to venture upon, if one cooM
difcern what corn, herbs, or fruits, are likely to

force of knitting and connexion.

B^ yonfon't Difecvery.

The two lafi words are not in Calllmachus, an<
confequently the reft are only ct,n}eBuraI,

fcft,

'

Shakij'ptare.

grrgctlon of vapours.

give teftimony to the law of nature,

z.

An affembly met to worfliip God in

-3.

the whole fOim-<j«»i(m Ihall repeat after him. Hooker,
The praSice of thofe that prefer houfes before
churches, and a conventicle before the ccrigrega-

3.

Siiifi.

Cvjngreca'tiokal. o/^'. [from congregaPublick ; pertaining to a congregation or affembly. It is a word
ufea of fuch Chriftians as hold every
congregation to be a feparate and independent church.
.CO'NGRESS. n.f. [congreffus, Latin.]
a fliock ; a confiift.
;
Here Pallas urges on, and Luufus there;
Their congrtfs in the field great Jove withdands.
Both doom'd to fall, but fall by grcat.r hands.

Co'ngruously. ad-v.

[from congrnoui.']
Suitably; pertinently; confiftently.

To agree

Whatfoevcr may be at any time, out of Scripand conjcflurally furmifed.

tuiv, but probably

ifwJfr.

Let it be probably, not corjelfurally, proved.
Maine.

Guefs; impeifeft knowledge ; prepon-

1.

deration of opinion without proof.
In the calling of lots, a man cannot, upon any
ground of reafon, bring the event (o much as un-

to

;

<i». «.

[fromcongruo, Lat.]

be confident with ;

to

Not in ufe.
fnit ; to be agreeable.
Our lovereign procefs imports at full,
By iMters congruing to that eft'eft.
The prefcnt death of Hamlet.
Sbakefp. Hanlef.

to another ; confiftency.

Co NCR u't N T
Agreeing ;

[congruem, Latin,]
cotrefpoudent.
.

adj.

conception.

Not now

in ufe.

To Conje'ctu r e. -v, a. [from the noun,]
To guefs ; to judge by guefs ; to entertain an opinion upon bare probability.
When we look upon fuch things as equally may

Tow'ring firs in conick forms arife,

And with a pointed fpear divide the (kies.

Pri'r.

A brown flint of a conick figure: the b«tis i>
oblong.

JVccdtCarii.

They are conical vclTels, with their bafcs tuward>
the heart; and, as they pafs on, their di;imctcrs

grow flill lefs.

-

Fills the

or may not be, human reafoncan then, at thebeft,
"
but eonjeffure what will be,
Soutb.

Conje'cturer, n.f. [from conjeSlurc'^
A gueffer ; one who forms opinion without proof.

j^rbuthnct.

[from

conical.^

wide veflel of the univerfe.
Sbakefpeare'^s Henry V.

If we fhould believe very grave eonjeffurers, car-

In

nivorous animals

form of a cone.
In a watering pot, ft aped conical/y, or like a
fugar-loaf, filled with water, no liquor falls through
the holes at the bottom, wliilft the gardener keeps

now were not flelh devourers
Brcmtin.

tiien.
I

fliall leave nnjtHurers

to their own

tions.

imaglna*
Addifm,

CoNi^FEROUs. adj. [fo/;w andy^ro, Lat.]

his thumb upon the orifice at the top,

Such

trees or herbs

are coniferous,

as

bear a

fquamofe fcaly fruit, of a woody fubllancc, and a
figure approaching to a cone, iti which are many
feeds ; and when they are ripe, the feveral cells in
tlie cone open, and the feeds drop out.
Of this
kind are the fir, pine, and beech.
I^tincy.

Co'n I CAi, NESS. n.f. [from fffwVfl/.] The
ttate or quality of being conical.

Co.vjcK Seelion. n.f. A curve line arifing
from the feftion of a cone by a plane.
CoNicK SeHeions. In.f, That part of geo- To Con'jo'bble. -v. a. [from con, together, and_/WvrW, the head.] To conCo'nicks.
metry which confiders
j
cert ; to fettle ; to difcufs. A low cant
the cone, and the curves ariling from its
word.
What would a body think of a minifter thit

feftions.

Concru'ence. n-/. [congruentie, Latin.] To CONJE'CT. -v. n. [conjeaum, Lat.]
Agreement ; fuitablcnefs of one thing

Soutb.

der ccnje^ure.

2. Idea; notion;

Boyle's Spring of the Air.

SirCONGRU'E.

[ from conjeittt-

Co'kjcai..} adj. [conicus, Lntln.'] HavCo'n-ick. 5 '"S t'ls fonn of a cone, or
round decreafing.

ther.
If it be underftood of fetes conjoined, all plants
are f'-malc j and if of disjoined and c:>ngrtjftve
^eiKration, there is no male or female in them.
Brown i Vulgar Errours.

.

by conjeftur.e.

Now entertain cenjeffure of a time.
When creeping murmur, and the poring dark.

An appointed meeting for fctilement Co'nically. adv.

of affairs between different nations : as,
the congrtfs of Cambray.
Concre'ssive. adj. [ from congrcfs. ]
Meeting ; encountering ; coming toge-

;

This conjeilure is to be regarded, bccaufe, conit, one having warmed the bladder,
found it then lighter than the nppofite weight.
Br.yle's Spring oftb-Air.

gruoujly unfy

Drjdcn's ^ne'id.
From ihefc laws may be deduced the rules of
the congrijjes and rcflctlions of two bodies.
Cbeyue'i PbHo/cLbical Pr'wcifki.

2.

By guefs

Conje'cture. n.f. [conjeStura, Latin.]

fit.

;

tion.']

A meeting

Rational ;

Motives th.1t addrefs themfi-Ives to our reafoh,
are fitted to be employed upon reafonablc creait is no ways ccngruoui, that God fh'^uld be
tures
always frightening men into an acknowledgment
of the truth.
jitreriury

If thofe preachers, who abound in epiphonemas,
would look about them, they would find part of
their congregation out of countenance, and the other

1.

rfl/.]

Cbeyne's PbUofefbical Prineifles.

South.

ad -cf

Conje'cturally. adai

Suitable to; accommodated to; proportionate .or commenfurate.
they infinitely corgmous to one another.

The words which the minidcr lirft pronounceth,

That which depends upon guefi.

records of time, but taken themfclves unto pro-'
babilities, and the ccnjeSunitily of philofophy.
BriKVn's Vulgar Errours.

The faculty is infinite, the objeft infinite, and

publick, and hear doftrine.

lier.

Locke.

.

ral.]

They have not recurred unto chronology, or the,

and the obedience we owe him lb congruous to

reafon, that the light of a great part of mankind

This brave o'crhanging firmament appears no
other thing to me, than a foul and peltiient ««-

Btocmc,

CoNjECTURA'tiTY, s.yi [from COHJcHu-

The means cf teduftion by the fire, is but by Co'ncruous. adj. [congruus, Latin.]
Baan. I, Agreeable to ; con fiftent with.
amgregatkn of homogcneal parts.
The exirtence of God is fo many ways roani2. A coUeflion ; a mafs of various parts
brought together.

Bacon,

be in plenty or fcarcity.

The coiigrumcnt and harmonious fitting of pe-

Congrega'tion. n.f. [from tengregate.']
1. The aft of collefting.

Shalefpeare't Coritltms.

Thou fpeak'ft it falfely, as I love mine honoor.
And mak'ft cu^iBuriKtaxt to come into me.

4. [In geometry.] Figures or lines which
exaflly correlpond, when laid over one
another, are in congruiiy.

verb.]
Colledled ; compact
Where the matter is moft nrgrtgatc, the cold is

Co'ngrbcate. adj. [from the

Sviif'.

Conje'cturable. adj. [ from cenjeaure. ]

Congru'ity of opinions t.i our natural conflltution,
is one

A

eonjeS,]

gucffer ; a conjefturer.
Kor (o cotjcBors would obtrude«
And from thy painted ikin conclude,

CoNGRv'iTY. «./. [from congrue."]

Light, cortgregaieJ by a burning glafs, afls nuft
upon fulphureous bodie>> to turn them into lire.

the greater.

Conjk'ctor. n.f. [from

a common fide of the longrumr fquares, as an axis.
Cbryniz Pbthfofhical Prmdj>Ui.

To guefs

;

to conjefture.
Not in ufe.
I intreat you then,

From one that but imperfcftly conjefls.
Your wifdom would not build yourfclf a trouble.
Sbakejpetire.

ftnuld cmcttle matters of ftate with tumblers, and
confer politicks with tinkers ?
L'EJirangr.

To CONJO'JN, -V. a. [conjeindr^ Fr, conjungo, Latin.]
I.

To uaite; to confolldate iato one.
Thou

CON

CON

Ttioo wrong'ft Pmthons> and not liim »lone
But, while I live, two friends cciycmJ in one.
DryJtn.

The general and indefinite contemplations and
notions of the elements, and their ctnjugatkns,
are to be fet afide, being but notional, and illimited
and definite axioms are to be drawn out of meafureJ
inllances.
Bacon.
All the various mixtures and conjugations ol
atoms do beget nothing.
BentUy'i Sermons.

To unite in marriage.

2.

If either of you 5

ow any inward impediment,

Why you (hould not be nrjcin'il, I charge
You on your fouls to utter it. Stjt, Much Ado>
3. Toaflociate; to conn eft.

who have writ fo much about deand cmjugations, about concords and
fyn'axes, loft their labour, and been learned to no
Have

Tfl

Cos ja'tN. f. n. To league

;

to unite.

purpofe ?

The fuppei of the Lji J is the moft facred, myfteiious,

United;

ShakeJ'feare'i

Shaitfj^cares Richard III.

to join in marriage ; to unite.
;
ThofeJrawing as weL marriage as wardfliip,
jare him both power and occaGon to eonjugate at
pleafure the Norman and the Saxon houfes.

Paul does the Phllippians, when he conjures
Decay of Piety,
I conjure you ! Let him k]iow,
Whate'er was done againft Iiim, Cato did it.

depreffnns ?
exhaufted.

them to unity.

and to fig-

nify their relation to one another.

Clarke.

Conju'nctive. atij. [conjunSli'vits, Lzl.']
Clofely united. 'A fenfe not in ufe.

thing : we have learned in logick, that corjugalei
are fometiorws in name only, and not in deed.
Bramhu/l't Ar.pwer to Ihhhei.

Conju'nctively. aJ'u. [from conjunc-

a pair.
affording nerves unto
rccciveth wry few itfelf from

other parts, that it
the fixth conjugaticTi or pair of nerves.

Sro^n't Vu!/^ar Erriurt.

The aft of uniting or compiling things

Combination of many circumllajvces,
or caufes.

but on old coins, and have made our paflions
and virtues vifrbte.
AMfon on Ancient Medals,

accent

is

on the

lall

fyllable, conjure ;

when for charm, on the firft, conjure.
To Co'n J tj RK. 'v.n. To praftife charmsor enchantments ; to enchant.

My invocation is honeft and fair

•

;

and in Ilia

miltrcf&'s name I conjure only but to raife up him.

«

Shakejpsare's Romeo and 'Juliet.

Out of my door, you witch you hag,' you
baggage, you poulcat, you runaway
Out, out^
I'll conjure you, I'll fortunetellyou
out
Shakcffearc' s Merry IVifues of IVindfor^
I

!

Co'njttrer.
I .

,

I

!

Jointly ; together ; not apart.
I.

King Charles.

is to be obferved, that
when this
word is ufed for fummon or confpire, its

Covju'kctiveness. n.f. [from conjisnctivt.] The quality of joining or uniting.
Conju'nctly. eiil'V. [from conjitncl.]

Conjuncture, n.f. [co/tjonaure, Fr.]

down again.

4. It

The mood of a verb,

tive.]
In union ; not apart.
Thcfe are good mediums ecnjunSlively taken,
that is, not one witltout the cjthei.
Brc/zvtt's Vulgar Errcurs,

[ I n geometry.] A right line bifefting the tranfverfe diameter.
Chambers.

to afFeft by

elfe
.

ufed fubfsquently to a conjunftion.

Conjugate Diamfter, or Axis.

The heart it fo farfrom

Shahefpcarc's Herri IV.

j

You have conjured up perfons thatexift no where

She 's fo conjun^n'e to my life and foul.

[In grammar.]

fome

Milton' i Par. Lofl,

To influence by magick

to ccnjure them

1

I cnuld not but by her.

to

Shakefftare' s Richard III.
What is he, whofc griefs
Bear fuch an emphafis ? whofe phrafe of forrow
Conjures the wand'ring ftjrs, and-makes them (land
Like wonder-wounded hearers ? Shakfp. Hamlet.
I thought their own fears, whofe black arcs firft
raifed up thofe turbulent fpirits, would force thetn

A word made ufe of to conneft the

2.

This fenfe is rare;

enchantment ; to charm.
What black magician foii/'«r« up this fiend.
To flop devoted charitable deeds ?

Sivift.

That as the flar moves not but in his fpherc,

common defign.

Con/arV againft the Higheft.
3.

Rymer's Tragedies of the lajl Age.

claufes of a perio<l together,

by an oath

He, in proud rebellious arms,

nitude, that their conjunSun was as fatal as their

3.

To bind many

Drew after him the third part of heav*n*s fons,

He /hall fooner find ink than nature

His grammatic.il argument, grounded upon the
derivation of fpontancous from Jfcrte, weighs no-

Conjuoa'tiok. n.f. \conjugatio, Lat.]

Addifon's Cato,

2.

Ihould bury

ftars,

oppofition.

infleft

together.

St.

Pompey and Caefar were two flars of fuch a mag-

fVctl-.f,.

verbs ; to decline verbs
through their various terminations.
Co'kjuoate. n. /. [cenjugatus, Latin.]
Agreeing in derivation with another
word, and therefore generally refembling in fignification.

X.

fent to a thing io contrary to his reafon. Clarendon.

The church may addrefs her fons in the form

Cannot he obferve their influences in their
oppofitions and conjanBiont, in their altitudes and

To join

;

He concluded with fighs and tears to conjuri
them, that they would no more prefs him to con-

circle ?

To Co'njucate. v. a. [conjugo, Latin.]

A couple

join with the higheft folemnity.

Ratetgh's Hipry of the World.
Has not a poet more viitues and vices within his

Matrimonially ; connubially.

Diil,

To CONJU'RE. -v. a. [coiijuro, Latin.]
To fummon in a facred name ; to en1

them under\a I'econd flood.

conjugal.]

Shakefpeaie't Othello,

The congrefs of two planets in the fame

nor by any conjunciion of the

Sivift.

won his daughter with ?

A plot; a confpiracy.

South.

ence.
Cod, neither by drawing waters from the deep,

wo-

man {vr her itnjugal affcdlinn, when i fecund that
fle had left the good man at home.
Sfidatcr.
He mark'd the roir/K^a/difpute;

To

I

3.

degree of the zodiack, where they are
fuppofed to have great power and influ-

Dryttent Fables.

[from

and amity between them.

conjurjli^jns.

And llill the mournful race is multiplied.

I.

What conjuration, and what mighty magick.
For fuch proceeding 1 am charged withal,

The treaty gave abroad a reput.ition of a ftrltl

2.

Sidney,

What drugs, what charms.

Smile, heaven, upon hjs ii't conjunBiony
That long hath frown'd upon rh.-ir enmity.

[ccrjugalls, Latin.]

atiiv.

my poor fpirit to difobey.

Henry IV.

Bacon's Henry VII.
Man can effeft no great matter by his perfonal
Arength, but Xi he adls in fociety and conjunBion
with others.
South,
An invifible hand from heaven mingles hearts
and fiuls by ftranje, fecret, and unaccountable

1 could not forbear cotr mending tlie young

an enchantment.

Your conjurationy fair knight, is too ftrong for

He will unite the white rofc and the red ;

Their ccnjugal iffeiXion ftill is tied.

2.

tation ;

Brawn*! Vulgar Errourt.
The parts of the body, feparatcly, make known
the pafTions of the foul, or elfc anjoirttly one with
the other.
Drjden.

Co' N JUG ALLY,

Shakffpeare's Henry V.

A magical form of words; an incan-

z.

conjunfiion

Nell roar'd inceflant, Dick fnt mute.

Under this conjuration fpeak, my lord.

With ourfmoil conjuncricn we iliould on,

See Cocni^or.

name.

We charge you, in the name of Gcd, take heed :

Skakefpcare^s King Lear.

tbof* that aic of approved virtues.

connubial.

The form or aft of fummoning another

To fee how fortune is dilpos^d to us.

nd in the ufe of doubtful remedies, eoejohl/y with

etilj.

King Charles,

in Ibme facred

Union ; alTociation ; league.

In
union ; together ; in afibciation ; jointly ; not apart.
A grofs and frequent error, commonly comroit-

Matrimonial ; belonging to marriage ;

copacy.

CoK ju'nction. n.f. [^conjunSio, Lat.]
1.

and conjunBurcs of let CiS in words.

Con jura'tion. n.f. [from conjure.
I.

Tript me behind.

connexion.

Holder's Elements of Sfeab,
4. Conliftency.
I was willing to grant to prclbytcry what with
reafon it can pretend to, in a conjunBure withepH"-

When he, c^nji/r^ and flattering his difplcafurc,

Di3.

CO'NJUGAL.

lation,

It picas'd the king his mafter to ftrike at me.

CoNJo'iNTLY. adv. [from conjoittt.'\

1.

Taylor.

[conjunaus, Latin.]
concurrent ; united. Not

;

He is quick to perceive the motions of articu*

in ufe.

Skakffpcari's Henry IV.

Go'nisoa.-

Mode of union

3.

CONJU'NCT. adj.

Copjiiia with Diy difejfe, and helps to end me.

and re.

and uteful conjugation of fecret and holy

things and duties.

Conjoined ;

connefted ; afTcnate.
Conjoint Degrees. [In mufick.] Two
notes which immediately follow each
other in the order of the fcale ; as «/

Such cenlures always attend fuch conjunSures,
and find fault for what is not done, as with that
which is done.
Clarendon,

Locke.

Union ; affemblage.

4.

This part of hi.

GonJoi'nt. fl*^'. [ccnjoint, Fr.]

Addijon's SpeHator,

Occafion ; critical time.

2.

thofe

clenfio'iS

i..

one communion ; at leaft, the dcfigns of all can
be coTijoimJ in ligatures of the fame reverence, and
Taylor*
piety, and devotion.
Let that which he learns next be nearly ovj/inJ
Leckt.
v»ith what he knows alreaiy.

King Charles,
Every virtue requires time and place, a proper
objed, and a fit conjunBurc of circumftanccs.

their feries of terminations.

of die remedy into the part, and conjoin the virtue
of bodies far disjoined. Srcwf't t'u/gar Errours.

never met with a more unhappy conjunSun of
than in the bufinefs of that earl.

I

affairs

The form of inflefting verbs through

3.

Common and oni^eIfal fi>iriEs convey the a^ion

Men of differing interelU can be recorcilcd

CON

n.f. SJ'cQim conjure.]

All enchanter i one tliat ufes durms.

Co«d

,

CON
\

Pcfir.r,

To CONNE'CT. *•. a. [conneao, Latin.]

J

.

I /houlil

folemn demand.

not be induced but by your earncft

intrcatics and fcrious ccnjuremtmt.

Millai en Edueatkn.

Conka'scen'ce.
1.

[con

n. /.

to

The licentioufncfi of infetiours, and the

re-

a fluid body, they will appear in the form of a red
powder.
Boj/.:

mifTnefs of fuperiourJ, the one violates, and the

To unite by intervention, as a cement.

Decay cf Piety*

otiter connives.

The natural order of the comiB'mg ideas niuft
direft the fylligifms ; and a man mult Sec the

With whatever coloun he perfuades authority
to ecrniye at his own vices, he will dcfire its pro-

connexion of each intermediate idea with thofe

tcftion from the effefts of other men's.

Lode.

at fuch trads as rejeft all revelation.

To join in a juft feries of thought, or CONKOISSE'UR,

3.

regular contUudion of language : as, tie
author connefts bis rcafini luell.
To Conne'ct. 11. n. To cohere ; to have
juft relation to things precedent and
fubfequent.
This is leldom ufed but in
converiation.

Con ne'ctively. ad'v.
In

conjundioii ;

in

[from <•«««<?.]
union; jointly;

Rogers,

He thinks it a fcandal to government to connive

that it coiuuSi, before he can ufe it in a fyllogifm.

judge; a critick.

Sii/ifr,

[French.]

n, /.

pretended critick.
Your IciTon learnt, you'll be fecure
To get the name of eonnoi^cur.

To CO'NNOTATE.
Latin.]
itfelf ;

A

It is often ufed of a

-v,

a.

S'Ufiftm

[con and nota,'

To defignate fomething befides
to imply ; to infer.

God's forefceingdoth not include or connotate predetermining, any more than I decree with my in-

Hammond.

Latin.]

conjointly ; conjunftly.

Common birth; produAion at the fame

The people's power is great and indifputable,

Co.SNOT a'tion. ». /. [from connotate.]

whenever they can unite conntliivdy, or by depu-

Implication of fomething" befides itfelf;
inference ; illation.
By reafonof the co-exiftcnce of one thing with

being.

Sivift.

To Con ne'x. v. a, [connexum, Latin.] To
join or link together ; to fatten to each
other.
'I'hofe birds who are taught fome words or
fenienccs, cannot conrex their words or fcntences
in coherence with the matter which they fignify.

The aiS of uniting or growing together
improperly.

Hali's Origin of Mankind.

Symphafis denotes a cmtiajctntt, or growing to-

They fly.

m/iman.

B'ther.

Born with another: being of the

Their

Behead whole troops at once.

Ptillps.

reflected,

fame

at a

join'd in conmxisn fweet.

Mi/ton.

Conna'tural.

adj. [con and natural.
United with the being ; conneded by

There muft be a future (late, where the eternal
and infeparable connexion between virtue and hap—

'\

nature.

pinefs ihall be manifcftcd.

Firti, in man's mind we find an appetite

Which is connatural, and born with it.

fubfequent ; confequence of argumentation ; coherence.
Contemplation of human nature doth, by a

;

Dav'tes.

Thefe aft'c<Sions are nmatural to us, and as we
grow up fo do they.
VEjirangc.
2. Participation of the fame nature.
Is there no way, befides
Thefe painful pafl'ages, how we may come
To death, and mix with our ccnnatural duft ? Milt.
Whatever draws me on.
Or fympathy, or fome connatural force,

Atteriury.

Juft relation to fomething precedent or

2.

To learn and know the truth of ev'ry thing

Matrimonial ; nuptial ; pertaining to
marriage ; conjugal.

And the chafte queen cennuiial rites require.

My heart, which by« fecret harmony
Still moves with thine,

Pofe's Odvpy.

CO'NOID. n./. [x«>oiiJ»i{.] A figure ipartaking of a cone ; approaching to the
form of a cone.
The tympanum is not capable of tenfion as a
drum there remains another way, by drawing it
:

to the centre into a conoid form.

Holder's Elements of Speech*

[from conoid.] Approaching to a conick form, to the form
of a round decreafing.

Conoi'dical.

necertary Carinexiott and chain of caufes, carry us up
to the Deity.

tiale.

Each intermediate idea muft be fuch as, in the
whole chain, hath a viiible connexion with thofe two
it is

placed between.

adj.

To CONQUA'SSATE.
Latin.]

Lucks.

A confcious, wife, reflefling caufe.

-v.

a.

[conquaffo,

To fliake ; to agitate.

Not ia

ufe.

That can deliberate, means eIcA, and find

Pow'rfui at greatell diftance to unite
With fecret amity.
Miltm's Para Jife Loft.

aJj. [coHttubialis, Latin.]

Should fecond love a plcafing flame infpiret

together.

others at a Icfs thicknefs, of thin
plates or bubbles, ate ccnnate with the rays, and im.

Nnvton^s Optich,

Sositi.

Union ; junflion ; the aft of faftening
together ; the Hate of being fattened

1

greater, and

routable.

Good, in the general notion of it, connotes alfo a
certain fuitablenefs of it to fome other thing.

CoNNu'etAL.

nexio, Lat.]

difpolitions to be

To Conno'te. 'V. a. [con. and nota, Lat.]
To imply ; to betoken to include.

Conne'xion. ft./, [from connex ; ox coa-

fame birth.
Many, who deny all emmale notions in the fpetulative intcllefl, do yet admit them in this. South.

another, there arifeth a various relation or connotaHalc^s Origin of Mankind,
tion between them.
Plato by his ideas means only the divine eficnce
with this corrctation, as it is varioufly imitable or
Norrit*
participabic by created beings.

;

By chains cor.nix'd, and with deftrudtivc fweep

Conn a'tb. aJJ. [from con and natus, Latin.]

tellei£l,

tation, to exert it.

Chrillians have baptized thefe geminou; births
and double comafcmchi, as containing in them a
dirtind>ion ot' (bul.
Brovun's l^ulgur Eiroun.

1.

;

forbear ; to pafs uncenfured.

and na/cor,

time ; community of birth.
2. Being produced together with another

3.

SfeHalor,

To pretend blindnefs or ignorance

2.

will he fo ccnnifltd to one another, that, inllcad of

2.

Co N u'r e m e n t n. /. [from conjure.] Se-

This artift is Co teach them how Co nod judicioufly, to cinr.ive with eitlier eye.

The corpufdes tliat couttitute the quickfilvrr

An

gucfs that I had put ibme com in that room. jltUiJ,

To wink.

1.

join ; to fallen together.

Would never find you in your condufl flipping,
Though they turn'd ctmjurtn to take you tripping.

,

S^if>.

T» CONNI'VE. 1/. H. [conniveo, Latin.]

To join; to link; to unite; to con-

1.

night.

impoftor who pretends to fecret
arts ; a cunning man.
From the account the lofer brings.
The conj'rer knows who liole the tilings. Prior.
3. By way of irony, a man of (hrewd conjeilure ; a man of fagacity.
Though ants are very knowing, \ don't take
them t.> be ttrnjunn ; and therefore tbey could not

tlie c'imaiHtaJiitft

Peatfon oit the Creed.

Thus has he done you British conforts riglit,
Whofe hufbinds, fliould they pry like mine to-

rious injunftion;

A tm»i«j»:t to admit half, will produce ruin.

of our comptioni.
U
except we looked for an account hercal'ter.

Such

SbakfJ^art's CemtJy of Entuii,
Figures io the book
Of fome dread tcrjunr, clut would ciifoicc nature.

2.

CON

CON

Good ioQot Pinch, you are a cmjuruZllablifli him in bis true fcnli: agaio.

"Vomits do violently conjuajfate the lungs.

Their due connexion with the end dcfign'd.

Harvey,

Blackm, Creation. Conquassa'tion-w./ [iTOmconqueffate.]
Connatura'lity. n. /. [from connatu- Conne'xive. adj.
[from connex.] Having
concuflion.
Agitation

ral.] Participation of the fame nature ;
natural infeparability.
There is a eontiaiura/iiy and congruity between
that knowledge and tliofe habits, and that future
eftate of the foul.
Ila/e.

Cov^f a'turally. aJv. [from connatuIn coexillence with nature; originally.

ral.]

Some common notions feem cmttaturally engra-

;

the force of connexion ; conjunftive.

The predicate and fubjeft arc joined in a form
of words by connexive particles.
Ifatts's Logick.

Connicta'tion.
Lat.]

n. /.

[from conniHo,

A winking.

Dia.

Conni'vance. n.j. [from connive.]
1. The ad of winking.
Not in ufe.
2.

Voluntary blindneis ; pretended ignorance ; forbearance.

nation.

bttcr to mitigate nfury by declaration,
than to fufl'cr it to rage by cor.r.ivance.
Bann.
Difobcdicnce, having gained one degree of liberty, will demand another : every vice interpret?'
a (OTaivd;)», an appigbatioa*
Siuib.

~ Conn a'tur Ai.NESS.
tural.]

n. /.

[fr>^lp

conna-

Participation of the fajne nature
natural union.

It

is

quirere, Latin.]
I .

veo in the foul, aouccdeotly to difcuOSve ratiociHalt.

To eCNQUER. t/. a. [conquerir, Fr. cen-

To gain by conqueft ; to over-run ; to
win.
They had conjuercdihtm and brought them under cribute.
I. Mac. viii. z.
Welcome, great Stagirite, and teach me novir
All I was born to kmiw

Thy fcholar's yiflories thou doft outdo ;
He conquer' J ch' earth, the whole world you. Cnntej,
'Twas fit,

Who f«7yBfr'</ nature, (hould prefidc o'er wit. Pope,
We conjuer'd France, but felt our captive's
charms
Their arts viftorious triuroph'd o'er our arms. Pope.
2.

To

2.

The firft original would fublift, though he out-

To overcome; tofubdue; tovanquifli.

ger unto his progeny.
Bro-wn's Vulgar Errcun.
Chrift has condefcended to a cognation and ccn-

Yet neither conqueror nor ccnquercd.
Shakejfeari'z Henry VI.

The conjuerd alfo, and inflav'd by war.
Shall, with their frecuum loft, all virtue lofe
Milton.

And fear of God.

Anna cotj^uert but to fave,
Smith*
And governs but to blefs.
3. To furmount; to overcome: as, he
conquered his reluSance.
To Co Nc^uER. "J. n. To get the viftory
to overcome.

far.guinity with us.

1.

The knowledge or faculty by which we

Which confcience (hakes

South*

Dryden'i Ovid.

Bound with triumphant garlands will I come.

And lead thy daughter to a cenoueror^s bed.
ShUefftare's Richard III.
The gain of civil wars will not allow
Bags for the conqueror'i crew.
Cowley,
criticlc that attacks authors in reputation, is
as the flavc who called out to the conquerory Remember, Sir, that you are a man. AadiJ. Guard.

A

2.

the eftimate of confcience ;
determination of confcience ; hoThis is fometimes a ferious, and
nefty.
fometimes a ludicrous fenfe.

Defcrving freedom more
Than thofe their corquerors, who leave behind
Nothing but toin wherefoe'er they rove.
Milton'i Faradife Regained,
Tbat tyrant god, that reliefs conqueror.
May quit his pleafurc to alTert his pow*r. Prior,

He had, againit right and confcience, by Ihameful
treachery,

intruded himfelf

into another

this by her authority, as much as by her praftice.

2. Acquifition by viftory ;

Sivifl.

3.

This our old conquijf; than remember hell.

Our hated habitation. Milton t Paradifc Regairud,
3. Viftory ; fuccefs in arms.
muft yield my body to the earth.

Confcioufnefs ; knowledge of our
thoughts or aftions.

lead thy daughter to a conqueror's bed
Is corf-ience of our virtuous aftions pitt,

Shak. Richard III.

.

4.

Addijw.

CONSANGUI'NEOUS. aJj, [co»/a«gui-

;

I know no touch of eorfanguinity,

Shekrjftare'i Troilui and Crtjfid.i,

We aie all bis generation.
Bann'i Hoh IVar.

Vol. I.

6.

knowledge of any thing without any
The damfel then to Tancred fent.
Who, confcious of th' occafion, fear'd th' event.
Dryd.n.

Why doft thou weep

Can'ft thou \he confcience

To think I fliall Uck friends

Shakeff, Tmon,

j

Prefag'd th' event.

Drydcn't Mneii.
Kofcs or honey cannot be thou^hc to fjiiell of
tafte their own fwcetnef?, or an organ be confcious
to its mufick, or gunpowder 10 its dalhing or noife.
Bentley's Sermons.

4.

Bearing witnefs by the diftate of confcience to any thing.

The queen had been folicitous with the king on
behalf, being confcious
been encouraged by her.

liis

to hcrl^lf that

he had

Chrctidon.

Co'nscious LY. ad-v. [from confcious.
With knowledge of pnc's own aftions.

"[

If thcfc perceptions, with their confcioufnefs,
remained in the mind, the fime thinking
thing would be always confcioufly prefent.
Lockt,

alw.nys

Co'nsciousness. tt.f.
I.

The

perception of
man's own mind,

[{tomco>!/cious.'\
Vr-hat pafles

in

a

Lockt.

If fpirit be without thinking, I have no idea of

any thing
.'

knowledge of any

the

>Eneas only, confcious to the (ign,

Clarendon.

lack,

to

:

L'Efirtinge.

?

Admitted

thing
with to.
The reft ftood trembling, ftruck with awe divine

Scruple; principle of aflion.
We muft make a confcience in keeping the juft

ablenefs.

life

new information.

me, JP.na\\i,

In ludicrous language, reafon; reafon-

Latin.]

nor perception, and is not
BentLy's Sermons.
Among fubftances, fopoe are thinking or confcious beings, or have a power of thought.
IVatts's Logick.
2. Knowing from memory ; having the

private

Children are travellers newly arrived iu a ftr.ingc
Country ; we (hould therefore make confcience not
Locke,
to iniflead them.

[confcius,

Endowed with the power of knowing
one's own thoughts and aftions.
Matter hath no

Denham,

laws of fupcri'iurs.
Taylor 1 Holy Living.
Why (hnuld not the one make as much confcience
of betraying for gold, as the other of doing it for

Taylor' t Holy Living,

at//,

confcious of its own evidence.

3.

Stakeffeare'i Othello,

a cruft }

in general j of
which the heathen poet, whom the apoftle calls to

tell

not able to fend them any part of it.

5.

nity, or relation

men

1.

They did in their confcitneei know, that he was

Lat.] Relation by blood ; relation by
defcent from one common progenitor
nearnefs of kin : diftinguifhed from aj/i-

witncfs, faith,

veracity ;

In fuch grofi kind ?

Shaieffeate.

guin'ty and focicly between

Real fentiment ;
thoughts.

Doft thou in confcience think,

Am I not con/a nguineou if Aminotofhcrblood ?

indilTcluble conjan-

common perfon.

Co'nscious.

That there be women do abufc their hulbands

Near of kin ; of the fame
related by birth ; not affined.

neus, Latin.]

There is the fapremc and

fcience ; reafonably ; juftly.
A prince muft be ufed confcionahly as well as

Pofe.

_

Equity; reafonableuefs. DiS.
[from confcion^
In a manner agreeable to con-

abk.'\

Hcdlor was in an abfolute certainty of death, and
deprelTcd with the confcience of being in an ill caufe.

Than all titectnqtiejii former king; did gain. Dryd.

[from con-

/cionable.l

Hooker,

The fwceteft cordial we receive at UH,

Not to be o'ercome, was to do more

by marriage.
Vvt forgot my father

own

n, f.

Co'nscionably. adu,

The reafon why the (implcr fort are moved with
is the confcience of iheir own ignorance.

To whom I will retail my conqueji won.

Cons.vncui'nity. It./, [confangninitas

Wotton,

Co'nscion ableness.

authority,

Shakeffeare''s Henry VI.

In joys of cmquiji he re(igns his breath.
And, (ill'd with England's glory, fmiles in death.

A

knave, very voluble ; no farther confcionalle
than in putting on the meer form of civil and
humane feeming.
Shakefpeart.
Let my debtors have confcionable fatisfaftion.

Merit, and good works, is the end of man's
motion ; and eonfcieice of the fame is the accompli(hment of man's icft.
Bacon.

And, by my fail, the ccnqueft to my for.

blood ;

man's

kingdom.
KnoUes.
What you require cannot, in confcience, be deferred beyond this time.
Milton,
Her majedy is obliged in confcience to endeavour

A

juft ;

fcience.

reftitution. Shakeffeare's Merry fVivei offVindfor.

pcrfeft conquejl of a country reduces all the
people to the condition of fubjefls.
Da-uies on Ireland.

And (he (ball be fole vi^refs.

Reafonable ;

This is thank-worthy, if a man, for corfcience
toward God, endure grief.
i Peter, ii. 19.
Now is Cupid a child of confcience; he makes

Co'KQvzit. n.f. [fo/tfa^^, French.]
1. The aft of conquering; fubjeftion.

Loc'kc,

[from confcience.]
according to con-

Juftice ;

the

One that fubdues and ruins countries.

thing gained.
More willingly I mention air.

they can make.

Co'nscionable. adj,

Confcience ngni(ics that knowledge which a man
hath of his own thoughts and anions ; and becaufc, if a man judgeth fairly of his actions by
comparing them with thelawof God, his mind will
approve or condemn him, this knowledge or confcience may be both an accufcr and a judge.
Stvift.

viftor.

n. f. [from cenExaftnefs of juftice ; tender-

nefs of confcience.
It will be a wonderful confcicnt'icufnefs in them,
if they will content themfelves with lefi, pro(it than

Creech' t Juvenal,

.'

No courts created yet, nor caufe was heard j
But all was fafe, for confcience was their guard.

A man that has obtained a vidory ; a

I'll

fcientious.']

Thofe rods of fcorpions, and thofe whips of ftecl,

fmall, and the particulars

few, he will find it eafy and conquerable.

I

South,

Conscie'ntiousness.

feel

Co'nqjjeror. n.f. [from conquer.'^

2.

Sfenjer.

Milton's Pamdije Loji.

Confcience has not been wanting to itfelf in endeavouring to get the cleared information about the
will of God.
South.
But why muft thofe be thought to 'fcape, that

Decay of Piety.
[from conjuer.']

to the direftion of

More (ircfs has been laid upon the ftriflneA of
law, than confcientioufly did belong to if. L' Efiran,
There is the erroneous as well as the li^jiitly
informed confcience ; and, if the confcience happens to be deluded, (in does not therefore ceafe to
be (in, becjufeaman comtnitted it cotfcientioujly

Who againU faith and confcience can be heard
.'

According

confcience.

When a people have no touch o{ confcience, no

Po^ible to be overcome.

1 .

en/ious.]

fenfe of their evil doings, it is bootlcfs to tliink to

Infallible

as in

Conscie'ntiously* ad'v. [from cen/ci-

ourfelves.

The logick of a ccr.quering fword has no pro-

While the heap is

Lead a life in fo corfcient'ioui a probity,

thought, word, and deed, to make good the charafter of an honed man.
L'Eflrange,

judge of the goodaefs or wickednefs of

reftrain them.

,

rjjk^

67;

Scrupulous ; exaftly jntt ; regulated by
confcience.

Dil3.

CO'NSCIENCE. n.f. [con/cientia, hzt.]

you ftiould require.

Conscie'ntious. ac/J. [from confcience. '^^

South.

ing together.

Shakrfpeare' s Coriolanut.
Oft' contradiftion.
Equal fuccefs had fet thefe champions high.
JValler.
And both refolv'd to conquer or to die.

ac/;.

as

CoNSARCiN a'tion. It,/, [from confarcino, Latin, to piece.] The aft of patch-

Put him to choler ftralght : he hath been us'd
Ever to conquer and to have his word

Co'nquerabi.e.

Half a dozen fools are, in all confcienn, as r

lived all KrTn&of confanguinity, and became a Gran-

Both tugging to be v!£lors, bread to breaft

priety.

CON

CON

CON

left j

thcieforc confcioufnefs muft be
-

eQ'cntial attribute.

t

D

its

ffetts't Logiek,

2. In.

*

From the Inconfiftent md contrary determina-

Internal fenfe of gailt, or inflocence.
No min doubts of a Saprcme Being, until,
from the cmfthufrtji of his proTocitions, Ic be-

come his iatcrell there diould be none.

tions thereof, eonjeaery impieties

Lvcke.

tecipt*

An honeft mind is not !n the power of a diflio-

Brown.

^iney.

To Cokse'wt. v. ft. [con/entio, Latin.]
To be of the fame mind ; to agree.
1
Though what thou tell'ft fome doubt within me

may arife.

Deduftion from premifes; confequence;
corollary.
Thefe propoGtions are confiffarlet drawn from
fVoodiuarA's Natural Hijloh/.
the obfervations.

Consecu'tion. «./.

co break its peace, theic muft be foroc guilt

Vo^'

duftions; concatenation of propofitions.

Some confrcutions are fo intimately and evidently

Co'nscript. adj.

To make facred

1

;

Mill.

CONSE'CUTIVE.
Following

in

Confequential ; regularly fucceeding.

[from the verb.]

ti've.\

oppofition to antecedently,

lofophy,

and fometimcs to effeai'jely or caufally.

in

The water ccnficrati for facrifice

Diil.

Appears a'l black.

TfaVer.

Siiouldil thou but hear I were licentious

And rhnt this body, cor.fecrsu to thee,
By ruffian luft fhould be contaminate.
tJiem

To Conse'minate. f. a. [con/emino, Latin.] To fow different feeds together.

Shaktjptare i Coimdy of Erreurs.
{landing before the choir, lets

know that they were alTembled in that ron-

Conse'nsion. n. /. [con/ert/io,
Agreement ; accord.

by their mutual contaft, and prcffing and ftriking, compofe one greater
individual animal, with one mind and undcrftanding, and a vital cinfenjion of the whole body. Btnilty.

;

Or touch this hallow'd mold Drayton's Cynthia.
Co'nSECR ATOR. «. / [from confccrate.'\
One that performs the rites by which
»ny thing is devoted to facred purpofes.
?

CONSE'NT. n.f. [ccn/en/us. Latin.]

crament, that the conjecraior alone fhould partake

of it.

\^xaTs\ tottfurate.'l

Concord ;

2.

A rite or ceremony of dedicating anil

j.

At the ertftion and eonficraihn as well of the

Demons fpund
In fire, air, flood, or under ground,
Whofe pnwfr hath a true cf>nfent
With planet, or wilh element.

place facred, but only folemnly declares ic fo : the
g'ft of :he owner to' Cod makes it God's, and

4..

Tendency

Such is the world's great harmony, that fprings

new tenftcrttiom of
//«/f.

both ; and thus (he (lone in the bladder, by vellicating the fibres ihert^ will aflirft and draw them
fo into (pafms, as to aficil the bowels in the fame
manner by the tBterfflcdiatim 0/ nervous tikreids,

CO'NSECTARY. adj. [from confeaarius,
Lat] Confeqaent

;

confcquential ; fol-

iewin^bjT confcquence.
{

[ confejuentia,

Latin.]

That which follows from any caufe or

I .

Event ;

8.

efFeft of a caufe.
Spirits that

know

All mortal confequences have pronounc'd it.
Sbakeffteare's Macbeth,

Shun the bitter eorfequen'e\

for know,

The day thou eateft thereof, thou (halt die.
Milton,

Propofition

3.

colleftcd

from the agree-

other previous
deduftion ; conclufion.

propofitions j

It is no good confijuence, that feafon aims at
our being happy, therefore it foibids all voluntary
fulfeiings.
Decay of Piety.

to one point ; joint opera-

From union, order, full rt»/fi(» of things.
Pofe.
5. In phyfick.
The perception one part has of another, by
means of fome fibres and nerves common to them

faints.

CO'NSEQUENCE. ». /.

4.

South..

calendar fwclls with

The authority due to the confentient judgment
and pradicc of the univerfal church.
Oxford Reajons agairji the Covenant.

Milion.

The aft of declaring one holy by caThe

Agreeing ; united in opinion ; not dif-

tion.

nonization.

confiftence.

Dia.

ment of

corre-

fpondence.

The tenfeerat'ion of h'.s God is upfln his heaJ.
Numi. vi. 7.
We mult know that eonfecraian makes not a

Agreement ;

Conse'ntient. €iJj. [eonfent ietis.'L^un.']

Cotvt. DaviJeis.

tabernacle as uf the temple, it pleafcd the Almighty
lloiker.
to give a fign.

confe^uentiy facieJ.

fentancous.']

Learning «»/«»/ and concord from his lyre.

Coherence with; relation to;

Boyle,

Consenta'neousness. n. f. [from «»-

agre?ment ; accord ; unity

of opinion.
The fighiing winds would ftnp there and admire.

devoting things or perfons to the fervice
of God, with an application of certain
proper folemnities.
AyUffis Par.

8.

fcems to exprefs it.

Dry Jen' t Per/.

Atterhury.

Consecra'tion. n. f.

collefled from every place of his writings, where he

principle.

I am far from excufmg or denying that compliance ; for plenary conjent it was not. King Cfarliu.
When thou canft truly call thefe virtues thine,
Ee wife and free, by heav'n's eonfent and mine.

Whether it be not againft the notion of a fa-

Paracelfus did not always write fo confcntaneoufly
to himfelf, that his opinions were confidently to be

The aft of yielding or confenting.

1.

Agreeably; confidently; fuit-

ably.

fering in fentiment.

particles could not poffibly,

Into thcfe fecrct fhades, cried ihe,

How dar'd thon be fo bold
To enter, canfecrate to me

taneous. 1

Latin.]

A great number of fuch living and thinking

ficrate place to fing unto God. Bacori'i Henry Vil,

4.

Hammond's Praliica! Cateehifm.

A term ufed in the fchool phi-

Confecrated; facred; devoted; devote;

being very agreeable

Consenta'neously. adv. [from confen-

Conse'cutively. adv. [from confecuadj.

it

and confentaneous to every one's natuie.

This is feeming to comprehend only the aftions
Lovke.
of a man, cofifnuthie to volition.

dedicated.

cardinal,

ing, nor to the praQice ;

come

lands did not

Arbuthnci 'in Coi':3.

tion.

2.

To canoni7,e.

The

Brown's Vtilg4r Eircurs,
you to the know-

uninterrupted

It will coft no pains to bring

That obligation upon the

with to.

He ftall onfccrett unto the Lord the days of
his feplration, and (hall bring a lamb of the firft
Numb. vi. 12.
year for a trefpafs ofF;:ring.

Ifaac

fenijneoui unto the circumftance of the text.

into difufe but by fifty conjtcui'me years of exemp-

To dedicate inviolably to fome particu-

[ eoitfentaneus,

In the piQure of Abraliam facrificing his fon,
is defcrJbed a little boy ; which is not eon-

Holder,

adj. [co>i/icuti/, Fr.]

train ;

Waller.

adj.

Lat.] Agreeable to ; confiftent with.

fucceffive.

the patron has built for filthy gain, and not for
true devotion.
A^Vtffe.

3.

To all they wrote.

Consenta'neous.

The mooh makes four quarterly fcafont within
her little year, or month of confecution.

Mi/ton,

Their num'rous thunder would awake
Dull earth, which does with hcav'n eonfent

In aftronomy.
The month of coirficulhn, or,

A bifhip ouglit not to confeerate a church which

Co'nsecrate.

Genefis,

What in deep thou didft abhor to dream.
Waking thou never wilt eonfent to do.

NetatQn's Oftich.

Enter into the holieft by the blood of Jefus, by
a new and living way which he hath ccnftcralcd for
Htb. X. zo.
us.

lar purpofe, or perfon :

Shattrffrtre't Henry VI.
In this we eonfent unto you, if ye will be as we be.

In a quick confmikr. of the colours, the im-

cred ufes.

2.

Ve comets, fcourge the bad revolting ftarj
That have cmfented unit Henry's death.

preflton of ever)- colour remains in the fenforium.

as fome term it,
of progreffion, is the fpacc between one conjunction of the moon with the fun unto another.
Brtnvn's Vulgar Errours.

;

;

to admit : with to.

SuccefTion.

3.

Milton,

To co-operate to the fame end.
to give eonfent
to allow ;
3. To yield

HaJt.

ratiocinative progrefs.

z.

to appropriate to fa-

Shall I abufe this anficrtted gift
Of fticngth, again returning with tny hair ?

The full relation.
2.

cotinexed to or found in the premifes, that the
conclulion is attained, and without any thing of

CoNSCRi'pTiON. ti.f. [con/criptio, Latin.]
Di^.
An enrolling or rcgiftering.
To CO'NSECRATE. v. u. [confecro, Lat.]

move.
But more defire to hear. If thou eonfent,

[ccn/ecudo, Latin.T

Train of confequences ; chain of <Ie-

1.

[from fow/Z-r/'/'ff, Lat.]
A term afed in fpeakine; of the Roman
fcnators, who were called Patres confcripti, from their names being written
in the regifter of the fenate.

or confdoufttefi*

and C1U& a colick ; and extend tbeir twiches fdine'
times to the ftomacb, and occafion vomitings.

and conclufions

Co'NSBCTARy. n.f. [from the adjeftive.]

Gtvcrnmtnt eflht Tongue.
Such ideas, no doubt, they would have Bad,
had not their cmfchufnefi to themfelve', of their
ignorauce of them, kept them from fo idle an at-

neft :

CON

CON

CON

The laft propofition of a fyllogifm : aj,
tuhat is commanded by cur Saviour is our
duty ; prayer is commanded-, conf. tberefort
prayer is our duty.
Can fyllogifm fct things right ?
No, majors foon with minors fight;
Or, both in friendly confort join'd,

5.

The eonfquence limps falfe behind.
Pr'ttr,
Concatenation of caufes and effefts
confecution.
Sorrow being the nataral and dirciS offer of fin,
that wljich

firft

brought fin into the world, muft,

by BecciTary covfequetce, bring ia forrow tgo. South.
1 fcl(

CON

CON

I felt

bly

M:lion'i Farntiifr hoji.

the fuperftfudling of

jiJiliUn^i SpeEiator.

cowardice ;

little Cinfc(^uence as

and children.

unchanged in pafiing through feverai mediums;
which is another condition of the rays of I'ght.
NiWIoii's Opii'.h.

Conse'rve. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. h fweatmeat made of the infpiirated

is

upon

ccvjtquemly,

this diftJnguilhing

in the heart of every man, after good or evil. South.

of fruit, boiled with fugar
they will harden and candy.

Co'nseqj/enTness.

n. /. [from «»/?Regular connexion of propor-

tions ; confecution of difcourfe.
Let them examine the i-sfr/cyMtnrw^ of the whole
body of the doctrine I deliver.
Dighy on the Soul, Dedication.

juices

aft perfeflly perfonal.

3.

Locke.

Sometimes with upon.
This fatisfaflion or difTatisfadion, tmjejueni
upon a man's acting fuitablr cu- unfuitably to confcience, is a priiiciple not e.>lily u be worn out.

Conse'rvable art)', [from conjir'vo, Lat.
to keep.] Capable of being kept, or
maintained.
Conse'rvancv. n.f. [from canfervans,
Lat.] Courts held by the Lord Mayor
of London, for the prefervation of the
fifliery on the river Thames, are called

Confequence ; that which follows from
previous propoiitions by rational deduc-

1

tion.

Da-vies on heljnd.

He could fee cDnfefuents yet dormant in their
principles, and effedls, yet unborn.

South.

Conseque'ntial. aJJ. [ from confequent. ]
Produced by the neceffary concatena-

1

tion of effeds to caufes.

We fomi:times wrangle, when we fliould debate

A tonjtqueni'tal which freedom draws
A bad ef^d, but from a noble caufe.

j

ill

2.

Prhr,

Having ths confequences juftiy connected with the premifes ; conclufive.
Th>ugh thcfe kind of arguments may fecm cbfcurc i yet, upon a due confideration of tiicm,
they arc highly confejuenlhl and concludcnt to my
purpofe.
Ha!e't Origin c/Maniii.J.
^

CONSECiUE'KTI ALLY. «</.!;. [from CO/t/e-

With juft deduftion of confequences

;

with right connexion of ideas.

No body writes a book without meaning fomcthing, though

he

may not have the

faculty of

writir,g confijuential/y, andcxpreffing hi* meaning.

j^ddijans IVhig Exumher.

By confequence ;

2.

not

immediately

eventually.
This relation is fo ncccflary, that God himfelf
cannot difchargc 3 rational creature from it
al;

though conjrrjuentwlly indeed he may do fo, by the
annihilation of fuch creatures.

Sctib.

3. In a regular feries.
Were a man a king in his dreams, and a beggar
awake, and dreamt Cinfrqumiially, and in continued
unbroken fchemes, would he be in reality a king
or a beggar ?
Mdifon.
CoNSE(y;E'NTiALNEsa. n.f. [from confiqiieniial.]

courfe.

He hath been moft induftrious both colledlor
and confcrver of choice pieces in that kind.

the globe, yet they are fuch as tend rather to
the benefit and confervjticn of the earth, and its
productions, than to the diforder and deftruftion
of both.
ff'iodtvard'i Natural Hijlory.

Ilayicard.

In the Eaflcrn regions there fcems to have been
a general cuftom of the ptiells having been the per-

Prefervation from corruption.
It is an enquiry of excellent ufe,

petual confervcri of knowledge and llory.

to enquire of

the means of preventing or ftaying of putrefadlion
for therein confideth the means of confcrvati'jn ot
'

bodies.

Temple.

A preparer of conferves.

2.

A

Conse'ssion. n.f. Ico/ifJ^OyLiUa.]
fitting together.

Bacon^s Natural liijlory.

Conse'rvative. adj. [from confer'va, La.- Conse'ssor. n.f. [Latin.] One that fits
with others,
Di^.
tin.]
Having the power of oppofing
diminution or injury.
The Iphcrical figure, as to alt heavenly bodies,
fo it agreeth to light, as the moft perfect

and con-

To CONSl'DER. -v. a. {confidero, Latin.]
1. To think upon with care ; to ponder ;
to examine ; to fift ; to ftudy.
At our more conftdcrd time we'll read,
Anfwer, and think upon this bufinefs.

P-eacham.

Conserva'tor. n.f. [Latin.] Preferver;
one that has the care or office of keeping
any thing from detriment, diminution,

Sbakefpeare' t Httvtht.

2.

To take into the view

;

not to omit in

the examination.

or extindtion.

It fcems necclfiry, in the choice of perfons far
For that you declare that you hjvc many fick
greater empl-.yments, to covjider their bodies as
amongft you, hp was warned by the cotifervator of
well as their minds, and ages and health as well as
the city, that he fhould keep at a diflance.
their abilities.
"-TctnpU,
Bacon 3 New jitlantis.
have regard to ; to refpefl j not to
The lords of the fecret council were likewjle 3
defpife.
made ecnjcr-uatori of the peace of the two kingLet us confider one another to provoke unto love,
doms, during the intervals of parliament. Clarcr.d.
and to good works.
Ihhn-ws. x. 24.
Such Individuals as are the fingle corfervaton of
their own fpecics.
Jiale's Origin of Mankind.
4. Jn the imperative mood it is a kind of

To

quenlia/.'j
1.

Though there do indeed happen fome alterations

fer'vjtive of all others.

;

E-jilyn's Kateudar.

that
;
prcferves any thing from lofs or diminution.

continuance ; protec-

in

2.

1 hey were ill paid ; and they were ill governed,
which is always a conffjuent of ill payment.

keep them dry.
;

from perilhing ;
tion.

which follows an ailing

caufe.

Tuberofes will not endure the wet of this fejfon i therefore fet the pots into your cotrferve, and

Conserva'tion. n.f. [ct»ifervatio,lAt.'\ Conse'rver. n.f. [from conferve.^
1
The aft of preferving care to keep 1 A layer up
a repofiter ; on^

Doth it fallow that they, being not the people
of Cod, arc in nothing to be tuUawed ?
This
cen/equent were good, if only the cullom of the
people of God is to be nbferved.
Iloiier.
2. Effedl; that

A

confervatory or place in which any
thing is kept. This fenfe is unufual.

2.

Courts of Confervancy.

South.

Co'nseqjjent. n.f.

till

Will 't pleafe your honour, tafte of thefe conferves f
Spfkejfeare.
They have in Turky and the Eafl certain confedlions, which they call fcrvcts, which are like to
candied cottj'er'vesj and are made of fugaf and lemons.
Bacon* s Natural Hifiory.
The more co(t they were at, and tiie more
fweetsthey bellowed upon them, the more their foefer-jes Hunk.
Dennn.

:

eaufe the right was conftftieni 10, and built on, an

To candy or pickle fruit.

There

principle, an inward fatisfaSion or diflitisfaftion

Sivift,

It was not a power poflible to be inherited, be-

properiiei

%.

ya<r«/.]

10.

TfirjU:

'

They will be able to conferve their

In confequence ; purfuantly.

z.

women

Co'KSEqj-'ENT. eu/J. [confiquens, Latin.]
1. Following by rational deduftion.
2. Following as the effeft of a caufe
with

fince the

ftores,

ledge is eafy.

H^oodtvard.

£Oiifegucrt/y fo.

1

and of as

Nothing was loft out of thcfe

art of can/cvcing what others have gained in know-

ter, fuftiincd in the fluid, being contingent and
unceitain, th:ir intermixtures with each other are

Importance; moment.
The ioftrumeat, of dtrknefi
Win us wi th h^jneil criHe^, to e:ray us

7.

Their people are funk in poverty, ignorance, and

To preferve without lofs or detriment.

I.

The place of the fcvcral forts of tcrreftrial mat-

HammmJ.

In deepeft cunjetjueme,
Shahfpeitre's Machctb*
The anger of Achilles was of luch ctnjrjuince,
that it embroiled the kings of Greece.

vative quality.
Dia.
To CONSE'RVE. -r. a. [conftrnjo, Latin.]

by the connexion of effeds to their

In the moft perfeft poem a perfeft idea was required, and confe^tdcittly all poets Ought rather to
imitate it.
Drydtti.

Aflerted without any colour of fcripturc-proof
to

:

inevita-

;

caufes.

That which produces confequences ; influence ; tendency.

good life.

By confequence; neceffariJy

I.

Such fatal consequence unites us three.

it is of ver^' ill c^rftquence

Conse'rvatorv. aJj. Having a prefer-

Co'njeQjjBNTi.Y. Wa*. [from ct)ti/eqtient.'\

Tint I muft after thee, with tliis thy fon !

%.

...CON

Regular confccution of difDiii.

^

interjedion ; a word whereby attention
fuininoned.

Conse'rvatorv. n. f. [from confer'vo,
Lat.] .A place where any thing is kept
in a manner proper to its pccaliar nature, as, fifh in a pond, corn in a granary.

A cor.jtrvatory of fnow and ice, fucb as they ufe

is

Corjlthrf

Thy life hath yet been private, moll part fpcnt
At home.
5-

for delicacy to cool wine in fummer.

Bacon' I Natural llijiory.

You may fct your tender trees and plants, wirh
doors of the greenhoufcs and
open, for eight or ten days before
E-jflyn^i KaUrttar.
April.
The water difpenfod to the earth and. atmolphsrc
by the great abvfi, that fubterranean confer-ualory,
is by that meant leftored back.

Miltoii'i Paradife Regained.

To requite ; to reward one for his
trouble.
Take away with thee the very fen-ices t'lou ha4
done, which if I have not enough conjidercd^ to be

more tliankful to thee rtiall be my ftuJy.

the uiiidowb and

eonjir ualoritt

ff'u'dtvjrd'l Nftturttl Ujjiory.

Shjkcjpeare'i Hunter's tali.

To Consi'der. v. II.
I.

To think maturely j notw judge haftily
or raflily.

None t'^n/dirctb in

hi: heart,

knowledge DOC under/landing,
3

D 2

ncttlier

is

there

IJaiaii, xliv. 1.

z.

Ta

CON

CON

to work in the mind.
Widow, we will ccrjultr of your fuit
And come Come other time to know our mind.
.
Sbjifff^are*s Henry VI.
Such a treatife might be coniultej by jurymen,
before they ttr.Jid<r o( their verdiA.
Swift,
doubt; to hefitate.
3.
M^iny max'd eati/jturings did throngs
Andprtrs'd in with this caution. Stai.H.VlU.
'Twas grief no more, or grief and rage were one

CoNSi'ocilATE. adj. [cenJiJeratui, Lat.]

2.

To deliberate

;

I will converfe with iron-witted fools,

And onrefpcilive boys none are for me,
That lojk into me with conJiJerale eyes.
:

Sbakeffeart'i Richard III.

iEneas is patient, eonjidoale, and careful of hii
people.

The te .rs that Itood arfijcring in her eyes.

Tillolfon.

Dryiicn^i Fjbfit*

Eternity

is

appear to every confderate man.

worthy of

2.

infinitely the moft ccnJUeraile dura.

2.

liJUffon.

have had inlamps were
jynyim.

much ufed in converfation.
Consi'derately. adv. [from

Refpeftable ; above negleft j deferving

rale.'\

Is ccitfidirablt enough to enter into

1

It

has

J5cy.

prudence;

It is not poflible to aft otherwife, confdering
the weaknefs of our nature.
SpeSlarcr,

roCONSI'GN. 'V. a, [configno, Lil.)
1. To give to another any thing, with the
to it, in a formal manner ; to
give into other hands ; to transfer
fometimes with /o, fometimes over to.
Men, by free gift, confgn over a place to the Di-

right

ferious

tion.

The breath no foonerleft his father's body.
2.

Ccnjideralion, like an angel, came,

Burnet's Thecry of the Earth.

And whipt th' oifending Adam out of him.

Every cough, though fevere, and of fome conis not of a confumptive nature, nor prefagcs dilTolucion and the grave.

Slatejfeare'i Henry V.

Jiderable continuance,

3.

fideration may have made

you the more virtuous,

and fo the more worrhy,

Sidney.

;

We mull not always meafure the ccnfiderableneJ!
of things by their mod obvious and immediate
ufefulncfs, but by their (itnefs to make or contribute to the difcovery of things highly ufeful.
Bcyh.
Their moft flight and trivial occurrences, by
being theirs, they think acquire a cmfderahleneji,
and are forcibly impofed upon the company.

4.

[from

5.

Foreigners can never take our bills for payment, though they might pafs as valuable confideraticns among our own people.
Locke.

And Europe fltll cortfidcrahty gains
6.

;

ferving you more anfidcrably than I have been
yet able to do.
Pope.

Consi'derance.' «. / [from

ccnjtiier.']

Confideration ; refleflion ; fobcr thought.
After this cold confidereKce, fentence me ;

And, 3s you ate a king, fpeak in your Hate

Ttut 1 liave duac that milbccame my place.
Sbakefpiare's Httiry IV

Motive of

aftion ; influence ;

of conduft.
The confideration,

.

1.

fearch an afylum.

the fame corfideratien,

To fubmit to the fame terms with anThis is not now in ufe.
Thou haft linilh'd joy and moan ;

All lovers young, all lovers muft
Confign to thee, and come to duft.

To fign

Dryden,

Dryden.

to confent to.

;

Shakeff, Cymi.

Obfolete.

A maid yet rofed over with the virgin crimfoa
of modefty :

it

were a bard condition for a maid

to conjgn to.

Shakefpeare.

Consiona'tion. n.f, [from <<?«/%«.]
1.

The aft of configning
the aft by
which any thing is delivered up to an;

other.

As the hope of falvation

in

The world cannot pardon your concealing it, on

Pofe'sOdyfTey.

other.

tpwards

He was obliged, antecedent to all other confiderati'.ns, to

Md'ijon.

,

ground

regard whereof the law
forbiddeth thefe things, was not becaufe thofe nations did ufe them.
Hooker.
He had been made general upon very partial,
and not enough deliberated, c^nfderation!, Clarend,

to entruft.

To CONSI GN. V. n,

2.

Ray on the Creation,

jiot the iugheft.

;

Atridcs, parting for the Trojan war,
Conjign'd tha youthful confort to his care.

We

In a degree deferving notice, though

importantly.
I defire no fort of favour fo much, as that of

Equivalent; compenfation.

To commit

The four evangelifts confgned to writing that

are provident enough not to part with any
thing fcrviceable to our bodies under a good confideration, but make little account of our fouls.

conftdtr-

To appropriate ; to quit for a certain
purpofe.
The French commander ctm/lgned it to the ufe
for which it was intended by the donor.

hiftory.

would have been a fatire upon the French form of
government.
Addijon's Freeholder.

aHt.-\

Both by their good example and their pains.
^tfcommon.

Importance ; claim to notice ; worthinefs of regard.
Lucan is the only author of confderation among
the Latin poets, who was not explained for the
ufe of the dauphin; becaufe the whole Pharfalia

Gcvcratnent of the Tongue.

Prior,

Drydtn's Fables, Dtdicalion,
3.

The love you bear to Mopfa hath brought you
to the confideration of her virtues, and that con-

Consi'derableness. n.f. [from conjitlerahle.'\
Importance; dignity; moment value defert a claim to notice.

South,

Muft I pafs
Again to nothing, when this vital breath
Ceafmg, confgns me o'er to reft and death ?

Contemplation ; meditation upon any
thing.

Blacltmi>re.

vine worfliip.

At the day of general account, good men are
then to be ccnjigmd vuer to another Ai^x, a ftate of
everlafting love and charity.
Atterlur-^.

Sidney,

But that his wildnefs mortified in him

Jidtrable thickncfs and folidity.

With Importance

ance be made for.

Let us think with eonfidcralion, and confider with
acknowledging, and acknowledge with admira-

Thofe earthy particles, when they came to be
would conflitute a body of a very «»-

«.

:

deliberation.

colledled,

Consi'dehablv. aJv.

Mature thought;

2.

C/arfrrdott,

;

junftion
it had been more grammatiwritten confidered ; -vu, French ;
but confidering is always ufed. j If allow-

cally

alone comes in confideration^ and the confequenccs
are removed, a man never chufcs amifs.
Locke,

Very probably a cmfiJtrabJe part of the earth is
jTt unknown.
H^ilkins.

;

Government of the Tongvf^

Consi'derinc. [This is a kind of con-

;

a middle

fignification between little and great.
Many brought in very eotifidtrabU fums of mo-

A

A vain applaufc of wit for an impious jeft, or
of reafon for a deep confd.rer.

regard ; notice.
As to prefent happinefs and mifery, when that

JiJcrtbU cftates as thofe who have the grtateft portions of land.
Addij'cti.
little.

Di£l.

Consider a'tion. n.f. [from f«»^d'?r.]
The aft of confidering mental view ;

the cloth.

DrydtrCi Dufrefr.oy.

I.

Calmly; coolly; prudently.

derate ; prudence.

Many can make thcmfelves maftcrs cf as ccn-

More than a

Co^vell.

Consi'derateness. n. f. [from conjidirate.'\
The quality of being confi-

upbraided his abfurdity, that could think his mean
aids cmfdcrabli to him, who could command Icgions of angels to his refcue.
Dicay cf Piety.
In painting, not every aQion, nor every perfon.

horfe, without bargaining

Cohfsi'DERER. n, /, [{wm con/der,^
man of refleftion ; a thinker.

Bacon's Colours of Good and Evil.
St. Peter's zeal,

his

if he difcharge not the
houfe, the hoil may Hay his horfe.

conJiJe-

Circumflances are of fuch force, as they fway
an ordinary judgment of a wife man, not fully and
confidcratcly pondering the matter.

Important ; valuable.
Chrift, inftead of applauding

and

with the hoft,

Moderate ; not rigorous. This fenfe is

3.

Men nrifidcrable in all worthy profcflions, eminent in many ways of life.
Sfratt'i Strmons.
I am fo cofjidcrablt a man, tliat ] cannot have
lefs than forty fliiUingi a year.
Miilf. Frctbuldir.

4.

felf

Decay of Piety.

notice.

3.

Little

regardful.

Though they will do nothing for virtue, yet
they may be prefumcd more conftjerate of praife.

fcriptions on them, exsr^fling that tlie

burninj.

when a man comes intoi an inn, and
taking both meat and lodging for him-

ufed.

ti«n.
It is arJiiltraHe, that feme urns

Having refped to ;

[In law.] Confideration is the material
caufe of a contrail, without which no
contraft bindeth.
It is either exprefled,
as if a man bargain to give twenty
(hillings for a horfe ; or el(e implied, a«

Mdif.n.

The expediency, in the prefent junfiure, may

CbNsroERABtE. at(/. [from lonfiJcr.]

I

8.

Diyden'i Fablet, Preface.

I grant it to be in many cafes certain, that it is
fuch as a confde*-are man may prudently rely and
proceed upon, and hath no ju{l caufe to doubt of.

Within her foul ; at lalt 'twas ragi? alone j
Which, burning upwards, in fuccenian dries

Worthy of confideration ;
regard and attention.

Not led by any commandment, yet movtd with
fuch confderations as have been before fet down.
Hooker,
Ufes, not thought upon before, be reafonable
caufcs of retaining that which other confiderations
did procure to be inllituted.
Hooker,

Serious ; given to confideration ; pru>'
dent ; not rafh ; not negligent.

1

To

1.

CON
7. Reafon ; ground of concluding.

it,

fo

is

is a good difpofition
defpair a certain con/ignation to

eternal ruin.

2.

Taylor.

The aft of figning.
If

we find that

ve incrcafe in duty,

then we

may look upon the tradition of the holy facramcntal fymbols as a direft conjignaiion of pardoA.
Taylor's tyortby Communicant,

CoNSi'cNMENT. ff.y. [from ««/%«.]
I. The aft of configning.
z. The

Thsfe are fundamental trutiis that He tt the
bottom, the bails upon which many others reft,
and in which they have their cmjijienciti teeming
and rich in flore, with which tliey furnifli the
Locke.
mind.

a. The writing by which any thing is configned.

Consi'milar. <2^'. [from cd»/tmilis, Latin.! Having one sommon refemblance.
Dia.

To CONSI'ST. v. n.

To fubfift

1

;

icotifipo,

He is befoie all tWiigs, and by him

all

things

To continue fixed, without diffipatjon.
Flame doth not mingli with flame,

as air doth

with air, or water with water, but only remaineth
contiguous; as it Cometh to pafs betwixt corfifilng
Bacon's Natural Hijicry.
bodies.
It is againft the nature of water, being a flexible
and ponderous body, to ci>i:Jjfi and ftay itfelt', and
not fall to the lower parta ab jut it.

Brerivuxd en Lannaga.
3.

To be comprlfed

to be contained.
1 pretend not to tie tbc hands of artiils, whofe
Ikill {nfps only in a certain manner which they
Drydcn.
have aflfcfled.

Con si's TENT. adj. \j:onftJiens, Lat.]
1. Not contradiiElory ; not oppofed.
With reference to fuch a lord, to terve, and to be
free, are terms not corjijieni only, but eijuivalent.
Scittth.

To

To agree

not to oppofe ; not to contradict ; not to counteradl: itYizs ivith
before the thing compared, or coexiftent.

6.

;

Hii majelly would be willing to conf-nt to any
thing that could ciiffji with his confcicnce and
hunour.

Nothing but what may t*Si\y4tn/J} tvilh your

You

CoNSl'sTENTLY. adv. [ftom confiJicnt.'\
Without contradidlion ; agreeably.
The Phcenicians are of this charafter, and the
poet defcribcs them cmji^ently with
proud, idle, and efl'eminate.

An ofticial, or chanccliir, lias the fame carjijlorial audience with the bilhop himfelf that dt-putes

Dryilen's Talks, Diiicathr.,

Co N s I's T E N c Y

.

3

[coiijtjlentia,

Ayliffc's Panrgon.

him.

CO'NSISTORY. «./ [coKfyhrium, Lat.]
The place of juftice in the court Chrif-

1.

Coive/l.

tian.

Chrift himfelf,

Hxed, deter-

minate, indeterminate, hard, and foft.

that great eonfijlory,

ture, and tmfiftency.

Burnet.

Degree of dcnfencfs or rarity.

Let the expreflcd juices be boilei into the cottjlrhuihmt cnAlimems.
fjlenee of a fyrup.
3.

Hi* friendfliip is of a noble make, and a laftir,6'oa/i'i Sertnons.

4. Durable or lading <l.'\te.
Meditation will confirm rcfoluiionsof good, and
give ihem a durable cinfijicnce in the foul, hiatnmonj.

conji^jiation

with a

^

That

which admits comfort.

To Co'nsolate. -v.

To comfort

;

a.

[con/olor,

Latin.]

to footh in

confole ;

to

Not much ufed.
i will

be gone,

That pitiful rumour may report my flight.

To confolate thine ear.
Sbakfff tare's jiiri well that ends -welh
all men that
honour virtue, we do not difcover the latter fccno

What may fomewhat conjolate

of bis mifery in authors of antiquity.
Brown's fulgar En ours.

Consola'tion. »./.

[ccnjhlatio,

Latin.]

alleviation of mifery ; fuch
alleviation as is produced by partial re-

Comfort

;

medies.

Wt, that were in the jaws of death, were now
brought into a place where we found nothing but
Bacon,
eon/olations.
Againft fuch cruellies,
With inward ccn/olaiions recompens'd ;
And oft fuppnrted fo, as (hall amaze

Consola'tor. «./. [Lat.] A comforter.
Conso'latoky. n./. [fTomcon/olaie.'\ A
fpeech or writing containing topicks of
comfort.
Confolatories writ

Or how far further fhall, is warranted

With

By a cummiflion from the co?t/fJhry,
Yea the whcle cBnJiJi'ry of Rome. Shak. II. VIII.

fought.
Lenient of grief and anxious thought.
Milton's Agonijles.

A

jitlerbury.

3.

Any folemn aflembly.
In mid air

To council fummons all his mighty peers
Within thick clouds, and dark, tenfold involv'd,

A gloomy ccnfjiory,

MihorCs Paradife Regained.
At Jove's aflcnt, the deities around
In folemn llate the confijiory crown'd.
Pope's Slalius.

4. Place of refidcnce.

My other felf, my counfel's rimj!jhry, my oracle,

Subftance ; form ; make.
ewfifiercj'

South.

The aflembly of cardinals.

could receive it.

2.

(hali

late prelate,
of remarkable xeal for the
church, were religions to be tried by lives, would
have lived down the pope and the whole ccnjijlory.

Bacon's Natural HlJIory.

There is the fame necefliry for the Divine influence and regimen, to order and govern, conferve

Hales Origin of ManHnd.
I carried on my enquiries farther, to try whether
this rifing world, when formed and liniOied, would
continue always the fame, io the fame form, ftruc-

various

i\i

prince, he had now gotten, as it were, two lives in
iVoiton.
his own fortune and greatnefs.

How farl''.e proceeded,

denfe,

and keep together, the univerfe in that confijience it
hath received, as it was at firft to give it, ijefore it

in

deign to ftcp down from his tlirone.

2.

Baccti't Natural Hrjicry,

rare, targible, pncumatical, volatile,

Ben 'jonpjn's Difccveries*

Union; intimacy; companionlhip.

ported with this conj'olatien, that their labour (hall
Rogers,
not be in vain.

Bacon.

:

the prince and whom his favour breeds, that they
may help to fuftain his power, as he their know-

(hould be two of the people to fit and give

Latin.]

The onjiftncin of bodies are very divers

Alliance.
There is fuch a confociation of offices betNveen

Hooker^ VrcJ.
voice in the cccleliailical confiJl:ry.
Pius was then hearing of caules in eonfijiory.

tlierc

low

it reftore itfelf to the natural eon/flenci,

1.

Their proujeft perfecytors. Milton's Paradije Lcfl.
Let the ilj^hcoous perfevcre with patience, fup-

An offerwas made, that, fcreveryone mitiifter,

State with rcfped to material exigence.
Water, being divided, maketh many circles, till

1.

Brume.

adj. [from confijiorj.']
Relating to the ecclefialtical court.

;

CoNsi'sTENCE. la. /.

they are

Consisto'rial.

not help bellowing more than is
emfiftirg tvith the fortun of a private man, or with
tiie will of any but an Alexander.

the impious man*8 joys lliould, upon thr whole,
Aiterbury.
exceed thofe of the upiight.
Health ctmfifis •with teir.ferance alone.
Ptft.
The only way of fecuring the conllitution wlU
be by lelTening the power of domeftick advcrfaries,
as much as can corfif lu'ilb lenity.
Sviift,

it !

to

CoNsoci a'tion. n./. [from ton/ociate.]

mifery.

Harvey on Confumptions.
The fand, contained within the ftell, becoming
folid and coK/tftent, at the fame tiiiie that of the
H^wduiard's Nat. Hjf..
ftratum without it did.

could

It cannot rtii/^ lUj/A the Divine Atitii.utes, that

miafms Infinuate into the humoral

and ccmfjlir.i parts of the body.

C/ciritta'.n.

plenty, your profperity, if reijuclled of you.
Sj>rart't Sermons,

Pofi.

Tlie fool corfP^nt, and the fallc fincere.

Firm; not fluid.

;

If they cohered, yet by the next confliS with
other atoms they raiijht be fcparaced again, without ever conjocialirg into the huge condenfc bodies
Bcnf ley's Sermons.
of planets.

Conso'lable. adj. [{xoxa confole.']
Fope.

To aft ccnjtjlenl with himfelf an hour.

Peftilential

To coalefcc

'V. n.

unite.

By fo long and

Shew me one that has it in his power

2.

Burnet*

parts of the chaos.

To CoKso'ciATE.

2.

And one regards itfelf, and one tiie whole.

••

Neccflity and elcQion cannot ccv/tft tjSjether in
Bramlall <i^»%* Ihbiis.
the fame aft.

ftipcmatural principle to unite and cot/ociate the

ledge.

On their own axis as the planets run.
Yet make at once their circle r und the fun ;
So two I'jnfjient motions afl tlie foul.
Pope's EJfays.

mountains, according as the pieces of this ruin
Burrct.
were difpofed.
have being concurrently ; to co5.

to hold together.

;

The ancient philofophers alwajs brought in a

AJJiJn en Italy.

The land would cuvjiji of plains, and vallies, and

to join.

To cement

2.

think canjijlinl with honour to piaftife.

tf'eljh,

;

Generally the belt outward (hapes are alfo the
l-kclicrt to be confiiioted with good inward faculff^eiion on Education^
ties,

A great part of their politicks others do not

paiTages cf private comxrfation, and refe-

exift.

Chamb.

growth, confijhnce, and return.

To be compofed.

4.

To unite

1.

or with any

of growth or decreafe continue for fonie
-time at .1 ftand, without either; as the

;

rences to particular matters.

To CONSO'CIATE. -v. a. [cottfocio.hzu]

A

A great beauty of letters does often corjlft in
little

itfelf,

Patrldge and Stanhope were condemned as eenliuyward.
ficialcs in the cunfpiracy ol Som -ffct.

other thing; congruity ; uniformity.
That unlijiency of behaviour, whereby he inflexibly puifues thofe mcafures which appear the
AMfin's FrecbiUer.
moft juft and equitable.
Hate of reft, in which things capable
6.

CdJ'wvi.

.

Agreement with

5.

Latin.]

not to perifli.

cmfiji.

2.

CON

CON

CON

1, as a child, will

go by thy direction.
Shakefpeare's Richard 111.

CoNSo'ciATE. ». /. [from fo/i/'oao, Lat.]

fludied

argument,

and

much perfuaflon

Conso'latory. adj. [from
Tending to give comfort.

confolate.^

To CONSO'LE. 11. a. [cett/olcr, Lat.] To
comfort ; to cheer ; to free from the
fenfe of mifery.
Others the fyren fifters compafs round.
And empty heads confole with empty found.
Pope's DunciaJ.
.

CONSO'LE. n.f. [French.] In architcc
ture,

is

a part or member projedling in

manner of a bracket, or fhoulder-piece,
ferviiig to fupport a cornice, buft, vafe,

beam, and frequently ufed as keys of
arches.

Chambers.

An accomplice ; a confederate ; a part- Conso'ler. n.f. [ftom con/ole.] One that
ner.

gives comfort.
Pride

CON
Pride once more jppeirt upon the ftsgf, as tht
grtat tnjtltr of the mifcrics of mair.
CcmwcKt, en FaJ>**i BJJay on Man*

C O N s o' L D A N T
I

.

aJj

That which has

.

[ fro

m coiifolidalc, ]

the quality of uniting

CONSOLIDATE. i'. a. [con/oliJer,
Fr. khdus, Latin.]

To form into a compaft and folid body

I .

;

to ut(ite into a folid mafs.
The )vor<l maybe rendered, eitlicr he ftretchrd,
or he fixed and tcnjMani, the earth above the

Burnt' i Tbtcry.

WJters.

The eSeft of fpirits in flopping hemorrhajjcs,
is well known to chi-

and ctrjilidalivg the fibres,

Arhuthnot.

rurgeons.

ad-v-

teachetli,

hard, or foJid.

Glan^ilU" i Si\pfi,
If he will {ptik confinamff to himfelf, he mu.1
fay that happened in tlie original couftitution.

from intemperance is no more philofophy, than a

ffvulward^ Nat. H!/!.
2. The annexing of one bill in parliament
to another.
3. In law, it is ufcd for the combining and

uniting of two benefices in one. Coivell.

Di^.

Co'nsonance. In./. [ cottfonance,
Co'nson ANCY. J cen/onanSf'LaX..']

P'r.

Accord of found.
The two principal cmfonanca that mod ravifli
the car, are, by the content of all nature, the fifth
H^nnn.
and the o&ave.
And winds and waters fiow'd
In ccnfttnana.
Tbomfon^i Spring.

congruence ; agreeable-

3.

friendftiip.

A

Agreeable according ; confident : followed by either vuith or to.
Were it confinani unD reafun to divorce thefe two

Or come I \^h conjpicuous ? Or what change
Abfents thee ?
MUton'i Paradife LoJ},

yTddifon'i Cato.

.

Obvioufly to the view.

1.

Milton.

Thefe methods may be preferved
and intirely diftinfl.

:

CoNSPi'cuousNESs.
cuous. ]

Denbam.

He fingle chofe to live, and fliunnM to wed.

Expofure to the view ;

1

Well pleas'd to want a confort of his bed.

A number of inftruments playitg toge-

Eminence; fame; celebrity.

2.

Their writings a^trad more readers by the au'.

This is probably a

A conjijrt of mufick in a banquet of wine, is as

perfons to commit fome crime ; a plot;
a concerted treafon.

I

.

miftake for concert.
a fignct of carbuncle fet in gold.
;

but, in ccnjorl with the reft, has a
different.

;

meaning quite

•

AiurLury.

To Conso'rt, v. n. [from the noun.] To
aifociate with ; to unite with ; to keep

company with.
What will you do ?

O cenfpiracy !

Ecclus. xxxii. 5.

Concurrence union.
Take it lingly, and it carries an air of levity

Let's not confort with them.

Sham'ft thou to (hew thydang'rous brow by night,
hen evils are moft free ? SbatcJ'p. Julius Cafar,
1 had forgot that foul conspiracy
Of the beaft Caliban, and his confed'rates,
Againlt my life.
Shakejpeari's Temfcfl,
When fcarcc he had efcap'd tlie blow
Of faftion and aufpiracy.
Death did his promis'd hopes deftroy.
Drydea,

W

;.

Hbaktf/earc.
Which of the Grecian chiefs confora with thee ?

Dryden.

To Conso'rt.
1.

Co'ksonant. «./. [ton/onani, Latin.] A

<v.

To join; to mi.t

;

to marry.

lony.

He, with his ccnfoitcd Eve,

imperfeilly, by itfelf.

thinks himfelf one.
2.

Loike on Educatiun.

To accompany. Not ufed.
meet wfth ynu upon the mart.
And afteiwaid anfori you till bed time. Sbekefj^.
I'll

In law, an agreement of men to do
any thing ; always t-iken in the evil
part.
It is taken for a confederacy of
two, at the leaft, falfely to indidl one,
or to procure one to be indiftcd, of fe-

a.

The ftory heard attentive. Aiilion't Paradife LcJI.
He begins to confort himfelf with rrvcn, and

be founded, or but

Boyle on Colours,

thor's anffuucufncjs.

Conspi'racy. n.f. [coit/piralio, Latin.]
A private agreement among fcveral

ther ; a fymphony.

4.

Boyle's Proem. Pjjay,

cuoujncfs.

In one confort there fat
Cruel revenge, and rancorous defpite,
Difloyal treafon, and heart-burning hate. Fairy S^

3.

of being

well proportioned fabricks ; yet they appear lb but
in that twilight, which is rcquifite to their ctij'pi.

Pofe.

Anaflembly; a divan; aconfultation.

2.

ftate

vifible at a diftance.
Looked on with fuch a weak light, they appear

Drydcn'i Fabla.

His warlike amazon her hoft invades,
Th' imperial conjorl of the crown of fpades.

confpicucujly,

Walls's Logickt

Eminently ; famoufly ; remarkably.
ti.
f. [ffom con/pi-

2.

Milton"!, Puradife Lofi.

Thy Bellona, who thy conjt^rt came
Not only to thy bed, but to thy fame.

Pope's Epift. of Horace,

!

Co N s p I'c uous L V ad-v. [from con/ficuous.'\

Male he created thee, but thy confort
Female for race then bicfs'd mankind, and faid,
Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth.

He Jifcovers how confsnant the account which

In all vowels the pafl'agc of the mouth is open
and free, without any appullcof an organ of fpccch
to another : but in all eonf/nants there is an appulfe
ef the organs, fomctioics (if you abllraft the

dilUnguifiied.

The heufe of lords,
C'ifpicuous fceoe

All rational delight ; wherein the brute
Cannot be human ccnfort.

Duay of Puly.

Mofei hath left of the primitive earth, is 10 this
from nature.
lyesd'ward.

Eminent; famous;

2.

Such as I feek, fit to participate

Dttay of PUly.

letter which cannot

Obvious to the fight ; feen at a diftance.

1

FellowHiip,

required, is a thing confon.m -witk natural equity.

Religion looks eenfnattt to itfelf.

ClaitviJIe's Sce^Jis.

CONSPl'CUOUS. adj. [con/picuus, Lat.]

Companion; partner; generally a partner of the bed ; a wife or hulband.

1.

-,

fentenccs, the former of which doth (hew how the
latter is TCdraioed.
tiKktr.
That where much is given there ihall be much

cottjpicuous.j

he thougiit moH confyicuoui in them.
Drydenz ^uvenaly Dedication.
Thy father's merit points thee out to view,
And fc s th*'e in the faireft point of light.
To make thy virtues or thy faults confpiaious.

Sba/uffcare's Hamlet.

Lat.]

[from

antiently the accent on the latter fyllable, but has it now on the former. Milton
has ufed them both.]

ihip, by the cmjomsncy of our youth.

{confinans,

/.

He attributed to each of them thafvirtuc which

fenfe now not ul'ed.
Let me conjure you by the rights of our fellow-

CO'NSONANT. adj.

tt.

It had

dccifions held confonancy

Agreement ; concord ;

A

Lat.]
Dii3.

If this definition be clearer thin the thing demidnight may vie for coajficuiiy with noon.

Dighy to Poje.

CO'NSORT. »./ [cofi/crs, Latin.

nefs.
and congruity
with refolutions and dccifions of former times.
HaiVs Laiu cf England.
I have fet down this, to Ihcw the perfeft anfoTottcy of our pf rfecuted church to the doftrinc of
fcripture and anti<juity. Hammond en Fundamentals.

[co/i/perfio,

fined,

One of his maxims is, that a total abftinence

Conso'lio ATivE. adj. [from co>t/olidalt.'\
That which has the quality of healing
wounds.

Sbakefpcirc'i Ccriolanui,

n./.

Brightnefs ; favonrablenefs to the fight.

in ufe.

The confcl'idathn oi the marble, and of the Hone,

Such

CoNspicu'iTV.

total confijiiatkn of the fenfes is rcpofe.

did not fall out at random,

coe/ptilus,

fprinkling about.

ing in found ; fymphonious.

The aft of uniting into a folid mafs.

Did.

[from

Di<li.

Consolida-'tion. It./, [from con/olidale.'\

Z, Confiftency ;

Conspe'rsiok.

Co'nsonous. ad/, \confome!, Lat.] Agree-

CoNsopi a'tion. n.J'. [(rom. cov/opio, Latin.] Theaftof laying to ileep. Little

1.

out of this character ?

TiL'otfin.

In hurts ar.d ulcers in the head, dryncis maketh
thcai more .npt to cnJMate. Bactn s Nat. Hifiory.
The fandy, fparrj , and flinty matter was then
fofr, and lufccptlblc of any form in theft (helly
moulds J and it cotJoliJaUtl and became hard afterTP^oodivard^ i Nat. Hi/Jwy,
wards.

1.

». f.

Latin.] Sight; view; fenfe of feeing.
This word is, I believe, peculiar to
Shake/peare, and perhaps corrupt.
What harm can your biflbn ccnfj-e^iuiiies glean

natures.

Agreeablcnefs ; confiftency.

Diet.

[from confftSm,

adj.

CoNSPECTu'iTy.

Ourfch'c'i are formed according to tliat mind
which frames things corjmantly to their refpeftive

To grow firm.

To Conso'lidate. v. «.

Latin.]

[coiifortiOf

Latin.] Eafy to be feen.

and

dclivercih, as if but one tongue did fpcak f >r all.
Hooler,

Co'nson antness. n.f. [horn con/onaiit.'\

one.

». /.

Partnerlhip ; fcUowfiiip ; fociety.

Cons? e'ct ABLE.

To combine or unite two parliamentary
bills into

Conso'rtion.

[from con/cnant .]

1 his as cQnJfnantly it preacheth,

To

Not ufed.
fuitable.
He was (o'lj'-rieiU to Charles Brandon, under
IVutten.
Hei:ry VIII. who was equal to him.

I'oje'i Fflhy em iloir.tr.

ncfs.

Co'nsonantlt.

[froiH conjirt.]

be compared with ; to be ranked withj

ConfiHeiuly ; agreeably,

to harden ;

z.

Conso'r TABLE, atfj,

from the vowcli) wholly preclu<t!ng all
fiund i and, in all of them, more or Icfs checkjii;;
and abetting it.
llMr's Eln:(nr>ofSf:c.L'
He confiJered thefc at they bat a jrcitcr mixture of vo«tls or eon/marls, and accordingly em-

einfen.inli

ployed them aj the vcrfe required a greater frnooth-

wounds.

To

CON

CON

;.

A concurrence

Co-ivcl/.

a general tendency of
many caufes to one event.
When the time new came that mifery was ripe
;

for him, there was a confpira.y in all heavenly and

earthly things, tu frame

unto it.

tic

occaGens to lead him
Sidnry.

The

'

CON

CON

Th« tJr appearing fo malicious !ri this mortjific

Henry VIIL when it was laid afide, as
being fo powerful as to become troublefome to the king. From thefe mighty

ccnffiracy, exails a more particular regard.

Har-vey on C'jrjumptions,

Conspi'rant. adj. [con/pirans, Latin.]

Shahff earl's Merry PKives of JVindfcr.

:

Shaiiffean'i Ar.f.ny and CUifatra.
They took great indignation, and anfpind ajainft
'
th- king.
Ap'!-.ryph.i.
Let the air be excluded j for that undermineth
the body, and eon/pinlh with the fpirit Of the body

Baem,

man a natural poffibility to deftroy

the world ; that i$, to ionjpire to know no woman.

^

Ic is ftrange that the fathers fliould

peal ;

Iminut.-ibility ; perpetuity ; unalterable

1

Cctijfire to ccnfurt and expofe our age.

Latin.]
To join luftre ; to Ihine with
one general light.
The fevcral things which engage our afl'jftlons,

To agree together

:

as, a// ll/ings con-

lity of the other.

Cm/piritig give the plant to grow,

A

Who chafes, who frets, and where c'jrjpirfn are

Refohtion

;

fif-mnefs ;

Siai. Macb.

fleadinefs ;

ftill

HaimKiid s PraBical Cateetifm.
Prioi.

wonder.
They find the fame holy ccnfternatiort upon rhrmfelves that Jacob did at Bethel, which he called ihe
gate of heaven.
South.

South.

Certainty; veracity; reality.

More witneffeth thiii fancy's images.

The natives, dubious whom
They muft obey, in confternation wait

And grows to fomeihirg of great cot.Jiancy,

Till rigid conqucft will pronounce their liege.

common peace of the land in deeds CO'NSTANT. adj. \_co,,Jlan,, Latin,]
of arms, and in maiters of v.ar. To 1. Firm; fixed; not fluid.
the

the court of the conjiabh and marlhal
belonged the cognizance of contr.iils,

the ihiri«cnth of

Lat.] Aftonifhment; amazement ; alienation of mind by a farprize 5 furprizfij

PtM\p%.

Bjt, however, (Irangeand admirable. Sbatifprare.

confiHed in the care of

till

Consterna'tion. n.f [horn conjlertto,

But all the (lory of the right told ov6r,

The fonftion of the (on-

ed by the Contiucror, and the office coii-

The condition is a corftellation or conjunflure of
diofe gofpcl graces, Jaith, i.opr, charity, felfdenial, repentance, and the reft.

retains the fjine

habitual good-will to a friend.

Lord high conJlabU is an ancient officer

deeds of arms without the realm, and
combats and blafonry of arms within it.
The firil cenflabU of England was creat-

lencies.

Cirfiancy is fuch a ftabiliry and firmnefs of
friend/hip, as ovi-rl)jks a:id piflis by Idibr
fai-

5.

Dryiicn.

An aflemblage of fpendoufs, or excel-

un-

Lafliiig afteftlon ; continuance of love,
•I-.
or friendiliip.

CaNSTABLE. a./ Icomti ftabuli, zi\t

;

Th)ugh 'tis a train of ftars.
2.

all

In vain the fyrens fing, the tempers bear.

lures of kindncfs, and yet

if fuppofed.]

Milton' i Paradife Left.

A cottfteltaliin is but one

Triumphant ahjiuncy has fix'd I\cr feat

pollution.

Ifaiah, xiii. lo.

The earth, the air, refounded j
The heav'ns and all the conjlt'latims rung,

In a fmall ille, amidft the wideft Teas,

Conspi'ring Ponu&s. [In raechanicks.]

tinaed hereditary

For the ftars of heaven, and the roKjleHutktt

Ihaken determination.

:

All fuch as aft in direftion not oppofite
to one another.
llnrris.
Co N s p u R c a't I o.v. a. y. [from con/purco,
Latin.]
The acl of defiling ; defile-

A clufterof fi,xed ftars.
thereof, fliall not give their light.

Rayon the Creation.
3.

Take no care,

_/?aiAf of England

CUnvilU'sScepJit.

Constella'tion. ti.f. [From co/t/l.'llaie.}

Hooker.

a muldplicity, /hould ix che rcfult of chance.

confpirator ; a plotter.

Macbeth (hall never vanijtilh'd be.

Broivn'l y'ulgar Errours.

Thefe fcattc:ed perfeflions, which were divided
among the feveral ranks of inferiour natures, Wi.-e
fummcd up and conftellated in ours.

Incredible, that corjlancy in fuch a variety, fuch

Hiigh.

[{torn con/pire.'\

Boyle.

Great conftitutiors, and fuch as are conf.eliateJ
into knowledge, do nothing till they outdo all.

Confiflency ; unvaried ftate.

2.

So moift ar.d dry, when fhoebas fhinn,

God.

To Constk'llate. v. a. To unite feveral lliining bodies in one fplendour.

to be of a ditferent conftitution from the former,
in refpeft of the one's ccmjlncy, and the mutabi-

fpire to make him hapfy.

Conspi'rer, «. /

dn, in a tranfcendent manner, ffiine forth and ctmflelJatt in

The lavvs of God himfelf no man will ever deny
Rojam-mn,

never ap.
that they ffiould not cor.Jlantly do it.
TiHotfiit.

1.

continuance.

Bn-wi't I'ulgar Ernur:.

r.ay,

To CONSTE'LLATE. v. «. \_conJlcllat,is

Carezj's Survey of Ojrnivall.

Co'kstancy. n.f. [conJlantia.'Lzlm.]

[ itom, conftant.l
perpetually ; certainly ;

fteadily.

This keeperihip is annexed to the conjlahlfjhif
ai the caftle, and that granted out in leafe.

Th; prefs, the pulpit, and the .lagc,

of the cro-.vn.

Unvariably ;

Clarend'^n.

To over-run the ConsTk^hT.. [perhaps
from conteftable, Fr. the fettled, firm,
and Hated account.] To fpend more
than what a man knows himfelf to be
worth a low plirafe.
Co'kstableship. //./. \irom conjlable.']
The office of a conftable.

both in pablick,

Mdifon! Freeholder.

Co'nstantly. adv.

2.

What was it

I,

and in his family.

to fedition, went to obferve what tiiey did.

That mov'd pale CaHius to rorfpire?

;

cenjlani to its offices in devotion,

Sbakcfpcarc.

The eonjtable being a fobcr man, and an enemy

[conJ}iro, Lat.]

Tell me what they deferre.
That do nnffire my death with devili/h plots
Of damned witchcraft.
&haktj. Richard III.

ment

Drydtn.

He Ihewed his firm adherence to religion, as
modelled by our national conftitution j and was

psor Edward

Bohun.

Scutb,

fecret treafon.

nothing in tlie world

ever ccnftant to his call ;

Still cheerful,

The knave conJlMe had fet me i' th' ftocks,
i' th' common ftocks, for a witch.

Drydm's Sfanijh Friar.

to plot ; to hatch

clfe

By many foUow'd, lov'd by moft, admir'd by all.

When I caitie hither, I was lord high c^r^flable.
And duke of Buckingham ; now

fpiracy againft him, together with ail the naines of

2.

Belides

conflables.

;

One put into his hand a note of the whole con-

to diflblve it.
There ia in

petty

we have conftMes denominated
from particular places
as, conjlable of
the Tpwtr, of Dover Caftle, of the Cajile
of Carnarvon : but thefe are properly
cafl:llani, or governours of cafiles.
Ccivell. Chambers.

Achitophel is among che cmjpirtton with Abfalom.
I Samud.
Stand back, thou manifeft cenfpiranr %
Thou tliat coQtrtv'ft tt> murder our dread lord.
Sbakcfftarci Henry VI.
But let the bold eovfpir^ltr beware ;
For beay'n makei princes its peculiar care.

;

;

to

thefe,

commilSon of a crime ; a plotter.

To concert a crime

called

rity,

who has fecretly concerted with others

1

thir-

Edward I.

Some dear friend dead

Could turn fo much the conftitution
Of any conjlant man. Shakcjp. Mirchatit ofyciiice.

;

[from con/piro, La
A man engaged in a plot ; one
i:./.

To CONSPI'RE. v. n.

Now fteal the colour from Baifanio's check

:

not that the ccnjpiration of intercft were too potent for the diverlity of judgment. Decay cf PJc'v

the cin/f^irar^rt.

of whom were ordained, in the

determined ; immov-

;

able ; unihaken.
Some ihrewd contents

be chofen in 4. Free from change of affedion.
Both loving one fair maid, they yet remained
every hundred, for the confervation of
cciiflant friends,
Sidney.
the peace, and view of armour. Tiiefe
are now called high conjiabks ; becaufe 5. Certain ; not various ; fteady ; firmly
adherent with to.
continuance of time, and increale both
Now through the land his care of fouls he
of people and offences, h<tve occafioned
ftretch'd.
others in every town of inferiour authoAnd like a primitive apoftle preach'd

It

,

two

teenth of

O"!^/™*/ 'gainft this high illuftrious prince,
Shakcfpeare"! King hear.
CoNSPiR a'tion. Tt.f. [coi/firaliii, Lat.]
An agreement of many to one end.
One would wond:r how, from fo differing pi-cmifes, they fliould infer tiie fame concluiion, v.-ere

tin.]

Jlables of hundreds and franchifes ;

Firm ; refolute

3.

magiftrates are derived the inferiour con-

Confpiring ; engag )g in a confpiracy
or plot ; plotting.
Thou arc a traitor,

Co.vspi'r ATOR.

CON

If y.iu

t.-ikc

highly teaiiied fpirit of wine, and

d-jiiilegmed fpirit of uiiue, and mix them, \ou
may euro ttcfe two fluid liquors into a cunfiant

body.

2.

Unvaried ;

Boylii llifiiry of rirtnr.cfi.

unchanged ;

immutable ;

durable.

The '.vorld 's a fcenc of change:, and to be
CenJIaat, in nature were imronftancy.
dw.'ey.

To CO'NSTIP.4TE, v. a. [from conjl,po,
Latin.]
1 .

To crowd together into a narrow room j
to thicken ; to condenfe.
Of cold, the property is to condenfe and «/i/?;.

t't'-

Bacon.
It may, by amafting, cooling, and
conftiputir.t
of waters, turn them into rain.
Ray intheCreat.

Taerc might nrifc fomc vertiginous morions or
whirlpool; in

thit

mj'ter of the chaof,

the aH'Mi miglit be tluuft

wi.-.'cb'y

aud crowded

to the

middle.

CON
roidJIe of cliofe whirlpools, and there confifati ant
Sntley.
another into great folid globes.

Thii It more bencAcial than «ny other emjlltuThis light being trajeded through the parallel
prifms, if it fuffered any change by the refvaftion
of one, it loft that impreflion by the contrarj*
refradion of the other ; and (o, being rellorvd to
its priftine conjii'utii/nj became of the fame condition

palTagcs.
It is not probable that any aliment fhouM have
tho quality of intirely tci^ipat'mf or fliutting op
the capillaty vcflels.
jfrtjtfhnot en Al'menti.

Omitting honeys which is laxative, and the
powder of fomc lo:idltones in this, doth rather ci:njP'ifaU and bind, than purge and loofea the belly.
Brcwn^i P^ulgar Errcun*

Constipa'tion. n.f. [from canfiifatt.'\
1. The aft of crowding any thing into lefs

If fuch men happen, by their native nnjtitutim:,
fall inW the gout, either they mind it not at
all, having no leifure to be fick, or they ufc it like
a dog.
temfle.

Temper of mind.

That which makes any thing what it
neceflary to exiftence ; elemental

any thing con-

Clarendon.

tution.

fiils.

and reafon, are the three parts ncDryden'i Du/rcfnoy.
ccflarily conjliiucnt of a man.
All animals derived all the con/iitueat matter of
their bodies, fucceflively, in all ages, out of this

Body, foul,

JVo^uinvardt

ecriftilufnt particles,

its

prefentatives

in

parliament

difregard

their coijlitutnts.

To CO'iMSTITUTE. 1;. a. [lonpluo, La-

Liable to conftraint ; obnoxious to com«
Whereas men before flood bound in confcience
now, by virtue

to do as reafon teacheth, they are

of human i3w,conJlrainaii'cj and, if they outwardly

By conftraint ; by compulfion.
What occafion it had given them to think, to
their greater obduration

in evil, that through a
froward and wanton defire of innovation we did

eon/trained^ thofe things, for which confcience was

pretended.

It is not probable

Confiftent with the civil conftitution
legal.

.

lence ;

That which conftitutes any thin'g what

confinement.

elemental ; eflential ; produftlve.
;
Although it be pl.'\ccd among the non-naturals,

give formal exiftence ; to make
any thing what it is ; to produce.

that is, fuch as, neither naturally conjtiiulivc nor
merely deftruftive, do preferve or deftroy.

Prudence is not only a moral but chriAian virit necelTary to the cottjiiiuiing of all

The elements and confiiiuiive parts of a fchifma-

Vupy o/Pieiy.

others.

To erea

to eftabli(h.
We mull obey laws appointed and csnfliluted by
lawful authority, not againft the law of God.
Ttiyhr^i Holy Living,

tick, being the efteem of himfelf, and the contempt of others.
Decay of Piety.

;

2.

derhand how in

this

one church

all

Pearfon.

united.

3.

may un-

they were

To depute ; to appoint another to an
office.

Co'nstituter. n.f. [from conjlitute.']

He that conftitutes or appoints.
Con$titu'tiOn. n.f. [from conjlitut e-l
enafting
1. The aft of coiiftituting
;

deputing ;

eftabliftiing ;

To compel

;

texture of

2.

Ctiiijlra'ins

them weep.

3. To neceflitate.

The (cars upon your honour, therefore, he
Does pity as conjirained blcm: flies,
Nothing dcfcrv'd. SLakeff. Antony and Cleopatra.

Outofufe.

Spenfer*

To CONSTRI'CT. t/. a. [conflringo, con-

Shakcfftare't Coriolansi.

Namur fubdued, is England^s palm alone;
The reft befieg'd, but we u/njlrain^d the town. Dry.
2. To hinder by force; to reftrain.

Confinement.

I

Locke*

His limbs were waxen weak and raw.
Thro' long imprifonmcnt, and hard corftraint,

to force to fome aftion.

Thy fight, which {hould
Make our eyes fiow with joy,

My fire in caves conftrains the winds.

producing.

2. State of being ; particular
parts : natural qualities.

1

upon us to ail for it. no body,

think, accounts an abridgment of liberty.

ccnjiringo, Latin.]

Can with a breath their clam'rous rage appeafe
They fear his whiftle, and forfake the feas. Dryd.
;

ftraint it puts

Having the power to enaft or eftablim.

To CONSTRA'IN. -v. a. [ccnjirainilre, Fr.

It will be neceflary to confider, how at lirll thofc
feveral churches were nnftituled, that we

I did fuppofc it fhould be on conftraint \
But, heav'n be thank^kjt is but voluntary.
Shakefpeare's King yobn.
Like you, a man ; and hither led by fame.
Not by conftraint, but by my choice, I came.
Dryden'' s Hdian Emperour*
The conftant defire of happinefs, and the con-

Brortvn^s P^u/gar Errours.

tue, fuch at

2.

Compulfion ; compelling force ; vioaft of overruling the defire

1.

Constitw'tive. tzcfj. [from cenflitute.]

To

Hooker*

Co N s T R a'i N e R », /, [ from conjirain. ]
He that conftrains.
Con ST R a'i NT. n.f. \contrainte, French.]

it is
1.

Hioker,

tranfgrefs, punifliable.

CoNSTR A'iNEDLY.a</'Z'. [from conJ}rain,'\

Bred in the conftitution ;

radical.
any fOB^if/zficBtf/illnefswill be
communicated with the fmall-pox by inoculation.

Raleigh.

pulfion.

tion. ]

tin.]

of paternal perfuafions, after

Jirain it.

Constitu'tiOnal. atij. [from ccnjlitu-

1

to withhold.

Constrai'nable. adj. [from conftrain.'\

Hooker.

made and ordained
by fome king or emperor; yet the canonifts, by
adding the word faereJ to it, make it to (ignify the
fame as an ecclehaftical canon.
Ayliffe,

2.

;

foft weapons

mankind began to forget the original giver of life,

civil law, is that law which is

1.

To reftrain
The

Conflitulion, properly fpeaking in the fenfe of the

Sharp's Surgery,

as, the re-

;

10.

We lawfully may obferve the politive conJUtutitns
of our own churches.

glands is a necelTary cmjiitucnt of the aliment.
j^rkuthnot on ji/imrnts.

In this northern trafl our hoarfer throats
Utter unripe and ill conjirained notes.
ff^aller,

bliftiment ; inftitution.

or fettles any thing in its peculiar ftate.

3. He that deputes another

nature.

became overweak to rcfift the firft inclination of
or after, when it became habitual, to ccn-

With foreign conJUiutior.s he had brought. Daniel.
7. Particular law ; eftabliftied ufage ; efta-

Bat/ej/'i Sermons.

The obrtrudion of the mcfentery is a great
impediment to nutrition; for the lymph in tijofc

Dryden,

To force ; to produce in oppofition to

9.

evil :

Mixing our cuftoms, and the form of right.

Coksti'tuent. tt./.
1. The perfon or thing which conftitutes

ence of any thing.

Conftrain'd him in a bird, and made him fly
With party-cotour'd plumes, a chattering pye.

of laws and cuftoms.
The Norman conquering all by might.

Ihould be fo juftly adapted aa

Their firft compofurc and origination requires a
higher and nobler conjliluent than chance.
Hale^s Origin of Manhinii,
2. That which is neceflary to the fubfift-

Drydtx,

6. Eftablifti^d form of government ; fyftem

to touch one another in every point.

Drjdeti,

;

To imprifon.

8.

Dametas, according to the conjiitution of a dull
head, thinks no better way to Ihevv himfelf wife
than by fiifpefting every thing in his way. Si^Kfy.
Some dear friend dead ; elfe nothing in the world
Could turn fo much the conjiitution
Of any confiant man. Shak. Merchant of yenict.
He defended himfelf with undaunted courage,
and lefs pafiion tlian was expeded from his conjii-

The ftate of having the body bound.
Consti'tuent. atij. [conjinuens, Lat.]

To tie

to bind.
Scarce the weary god had dos'd his eyes.
When rufliing on with ihouts, he binds in chains
The drowfy prophet, and his limbs conjirains,

7.

Drydcfi.

ccnjlitution.

5.

5.

the figures and fizes of

When winter frofts eonjl rain the field withcoM,
The fcanty root can take no fteady hold.

Beauty is nothing elfc but a juH accord and
harmony of the members, animated by a healthful

yirbuthmi en-AUmenlt.

It is impoflible that

Gtf,

Toconftringe.

6.

or difeaf^.

Benlliy.

funo.

How cfae llrait ftayi the flcnder wafte conftrain.

yiriuthncl onjiUmenls.

It requiies either abfolute fulnsfs of matter, or

eflbntial ; that of which

When amidft the fervour of the feaft,
The T) rian hugs and fonds thee on her bread.
And with./wcet kifles in her arms conjlraini.
Thou may'l> infufe thy venom in her veins. Dryd*

Tempe^ of body, with refpeft to health

4.

a pretty clofe conftifaihn ai.d mutual contad of its

is ;

Shakejpeire'i Titus Andrmidiu

to

Stoppage ; obftruflion by plenitude.
The inaftivity of the gall occafions a tonjiipalion

you corjiraind and forc'd.

I

To confine ; to prefs.

5.

;

.

of the belly.

Her fpotlefs chaftity.

Inhuman traitors

age, are ftot fubjcft to ftriflure of fibres.

This worketh by the detention of the fplrits,
•nd ccnftifatkn of the tangible part
Saccn'i Natural hjftory.

particles.

When to Ms Inft yEgyfthus gave the rein.
Did fate or we th' adult'roui a£l cenftrain f
Kope's Odyfy,
4. To violate ; to ravifh.

Corporeal frame.
Amongft many bad efJcfts of this oily corftiiutiony there is one advantage
fuch who arrive to

3.

room; condenfation.

2.

Nnuion't Of licks.

as at firft.

To bind the belly, or make coftive.

3.

Brmtty*

tisn.

To ftuft" up, or flop by filling up the

T.

CON

G O N

1.

2.

jlriaum, Lat.]
To bind ; to cramp ; to confine into a
narrow compafs.

To contraft

to caufe to flirink.
;
Such things as ccnftrill the fibres, and ftrengthen

the folid parts.

Arhuihr.ol on Diet.

CoNSTRi'cTiON. n, f.

[ from conJlriB. ]

Contraftion ; comprcffion ; forcible contraftion.

CompreJJion

is

from an out-

ward force, coiiftriSim from fome quality J

CON

CON

Judgment 5 mental reprefentatlon.

our blefled Saviour with the facramei|tal
element, according to the Lutherans.

CON
throat is comprefled by a
bandage, and conftringed by a cold.

Jity ; as the

6.

cannot, therefore, unto reafonable conjlruetkr.s frem flrange, or favour o{ finguiarity, chat we
have examined this point. Brvwns Vul^. Erroun.
It

The 4ir, which thefe receive into the lungs, may
ftrve to render their

b

ies

eijuiponderar.t to the

water; and the coiijlrifiim or dilatation of it, mav

The manner, of defcribing a figure or
problem in geometry.

7.

probably aflift them to afccnd or defceiid in the
water.
Ray en lit Crcatkn.

CoNSTRi'cTOR. n.f. \cottfinaor, Latin.]

gebra,

i;.

a.

;

to

[

republick.

ti.

/.

When the Gauls came, one fole dictator iVay'd.

\Jtoia cenjlru& ."]
to judge

between the merchants of his
nation, and proteft their commerce.

B/jcRmire.

Co'nsular. adj. [re'r/a/am, Latin.}

To CO'NSTRUE. -v. a. [ceirjtruo, Latin.]
To range words in their natural order
I

t .

.

Shuke/peart's Troilus anj Crejjiila-

to difentangle tranfpofition.
I'll teach mine eyes, with iricek humility,

Strong liquors, efpccially inflaminatory fpirits,
intoxicate, ttnjlr'mgt, harden the fibres, and coa^late the fluids.
jjrkuthnu.

Cirftrur the tiroes to their necellities.

And you (hall fay, indeed, it is the time.
And not the king, that doth you injuries.

Biltongs Natural Ihjiury*

Our ftrengtben'd bodici in a cold embrace

To interpret ; to explain

a.

Tbontpit't IKinta-

Ti CONSTRU'CT. «. a,

;

muft crave that I be not fo underftood or eonany fuch (fling,- by virtue thereof,
could be done without the a'ld and afliftance or
Cod's moft bltU'ed fpirit.
Hooker.
Virgil is fo very figurative, 'that he require* (I

[canfiruaus.

form;

'

I

I

compile;

to

to
I

*is pleafed to conjirul} this vaft fabrick.
Boyle I Vftfuhtfi tf Nciural Pbihfipby.

To form by the mind :
td a new fyftera.

Drydcn.

regular method.
2. The form of building ; ftrnfture ; conformation.

T",,

;

in which

Word, which is the Son ; we

Being of the fame kind or nature.

He f?nt for his bofom friendsy •cd'ifh whoVn he
ceive.

1.

which it had on earth.

Make BO coUedion of it j
His flcill in the c'^rflruflkn.

5. Thefenfe; tnc

Staktf//. CjnMht.

meaning;

interpreta-

tion.
In which fenfe although we' judge the apoftle's
wnr.ls to have been uttered, yet hereunto we do

not icqijlre them to yield, tMt think any other
onJiruOhn more found.
Hooitr.

He that would iive at cafe, fliould always put th'c
bcft cor.flruSSoK on bulinefs and convcrfation.
Collier on the Spleen.

Religion, in its own nature, produce
g..od
«il! towards men, and puts the miidcll {mflruHkn
Itfon evety accideac tliac bcf^ls -tJlcm.
SjuSator.

Vol. 1,

ClarendoHm

To afk advice of: as, he confultcd his
friends ; to con/ull an author.
To regard

2.

;

to aft with view or refpeft

to.

We arc, in the firft place, to confab the neceffities of life,

H':'.ker.

In their conceits the human nature of Chrilt
was not nnfuljiantial to ours, but of another kind.

rather than matters of ornament afiJ
L'EJh'aige.'^

d'-'iight.'

The fmate owes it? gratitude to Cato,

Who with fo great a foul confuiti its fat'cty,

Brcrevi^od.

can
let him (hew

-

To CoNsu'tT. ni, a,

dies ; a body of the fame, both nature and meafure

natlon.
1

moft- c-tnfidently corfulted,' and' i^ewcd the pap^r
to theol, th« contents whereof he could not cftn"^!

_

It continueth a body con/ub/fantial vfith our bo-

The aa of arranging terms in the proper order, by difentangling tranfpofitions ; the ail of Interpreting; e.xpla-

Mac, viii. 15.
work.
Etcluu KXl^viJ.

blefs and magnify that co-ert"ential Spirit, eternally
proceeding from both, which is the Holy Ghod.
Hooker.

2

Conjubstantia'lity. n.f. [from eoii-

And guardi our lives, while he ncglcds itis owh.
Addijon,

fubjlnntial.'\
I.

'

Shakefp, Henry VHI»

1

notwithftanding we adore the
Father, as being altogether of himfeif, we glorify

Some particlea conftantly, and others in certain

This label, whofe containing

and, not eonfa/tiitg, broke

C-^rfult not iiiitb the flothfol for any

indivifible unity,-

that iorfuh/ijniia!

j

A fcnate-houfe, wherein three hundred itti
twenty men fat eovjuhing always for the people.

conjlu-

Violation; defilement.

The Lord our Cod is but "ne God

as is proper to convey a complete fenfc.
darkens Lalin Grammar.

Is (^ from fcrfe in hardncfs, tha'

;

The fiidden breach on 't.

Latin.]
Having the fame en*encc cr fubfiftence.

1.

3. [In grammar.] The putting of words,
do!y chofen, together in fuch a manner

the lenfe of a whole fentcnce
contjincd in theoi.
Locke.

to deliberate
;
has iKtiih before the per-

tialis,

Arbutinot.

eotiJIruRwni, have

it

Into a general prophecy, that this tcmpeft,
Dafliing the garment of this peace, abrided

CONSIJBSTA'NTIAL. a^j. [con/uhjlan-

The ways were made of feveral layers of flat
materials which thpy found.

A thing infpir'd

I

;

Constupra'tion. n.f. [from
prate.]

ftones and flint: the cmfir-ufHon was a little various, according to the nature of the foil, or the

;

Dryd.

Latin.]

[confulto,

fon admitted to confultation..
Every man.
I
After the hideous ftorm that follow'd, was

file.

There's no art

To fliew the mind's cerjlruflim in the face. Sha!:.

in common ;

CO'NSTUPRATE. -j. a. \_co„Jiupro,
To violate to debauch to de-

Lat.l

H.

To take counfel together

' SlilUn^feet,
rance or malice of our advcrfaries.
When the word is eenfirued into irt idn, the
double meaning vanilhes. /tjdif. enjimitntMidnh.

a$, he (onjlrna-

CoNSTRu'cTlON. n.f, [confiruBit, Lat.]
1. The aft of building, or piling up in a

To CON'SU'LT. v.

Thus we are put to (Onfirae and paraphrafc our
own i^ords, to free ourfelves cither from the igno-

'

The

Shall PoU'io's eorfuljhip and triumph grace.

'

may ahnoft fay) a grammar apart to conjlmt him.

•

Mdifmonhaly.

office of conful.
The patricians ihould do very ill,
To let tlie conJ::!jfyip be fo defil'd.
Ben yonjon% C^ulint*'^
The lovely boy, with his anfiiicious face,

^ftrueJ, as if

to

were effaced out of all

conjulate

Co'nsulship. n. / [ftoni ttnfuL'^

to Ihew the

meaning.

Let there be an admiration of thofe divine attribates and prerogntives, for whofe manifefting he

4.

His name and

public legifters and infcriptions.

Shakefperre^t Henry IV.

Winter binds

2.

Co'nsui.ate. fi. f. [confulatus, Latin.J
The office of conful.

SpenfiT.

try a dc«p well, or » confervatory of fnow,
where the culd may be more cotiftrirgnt.

CoNs'jLAR Af<j«, One who had been,
conful.
Rofe not the eenfufar men, and left their placed.
So foon as thou fat'ft down ? Bmyonfon's CatVinr.

2.

Will foon Conceive, and learn to conflrue well.

prefling.

Latin.]
1. To build;
conditute.

'

fpcU,

Having the quality of binding or com-

Relating to the conful.
The conftilar power had only the ornaments,
without the force, of the royal authority. SfcBaior.

Love-lcatned letters to her eyes to read ;
Which her deep wit, th«t true heart's thought can

Con ST Ri't< GENT. adj. [conftringms, Lat.]

Ciifflringttii.

An officer commliHoned in foreign parts

%.

They fliall the earth's canjlntffiire clofely bind,

And to the centre keep the patts conHn'd.

the almighty fun.

i

Dryden.

Pile ; edifice ; fabrick.

to

•

Or never be fo noble as a conful.
Nor yoke with him for tribune. Shak. Conolar.its,
Onfuh of mod'rate power in calms were made} '

method of reducing a

CoNiTRr'cTURE.

conftringo,

contrad ;

bind ; to force to contraft itfelf.
The dreadful fnout,
Which fhipmen do the hurricano call,
Ctiiflr'trg'd in mafs by

the

in order to a geometrical demonlLation.

Arbuthn^it and Pcpn's Mart. Scnb,

To comprefs

is

known equation into lines and figures,

be ilrengthened in the fuperciliuus.

Lat.]

CO'NSUL. n.f. [corful, cpnfulendoi Latin.]
1. The chief magiftrate in the Romaa

CoKSTRUcTiON ef Ejttatiofn, in al-

8.

That which comprefles or contrafts.
He fuppofed the conJinSlon of tlic eye-lids muH

To CONSTRl'NGE.

In the point of corfubflantiation, toward the latte/
end of his life, he changed his mind, ^iterbury. -

Exiftence of more than oiie, in

tlie

3.

fame fubftancc.

To plan

to contrive.
j
Thnu haft confulud Ihame to thy houfc, by
cutting -off many people.
Hdi. i\.'to.
;

'

,

'i'he eternity of the Son'i generation, ;)nd his
co-ctcrnity and confubjianiiartiy Wirfi the Father,

when he came down trom heavL-n.
Hammond on Fundamentalt.
z. Participation of the fame nature.

fo Consuesta'nti ATE. -v. a. [from cvt:
ind ful/ia/ilia, Lat.] To unite in one

common fubftanco or nature.
Cons u B ST A NT a'tion. »./. [from ccn/uijlantiafe.] Ths Uftion of ths body of
I

Many things were th--re corfulfed for the ftit'^rc,
yet nr tiling was

pofitively tel.lvejl,

'

darcydon,

Co'nsult. «./. [from the verb.
variouily. accented.]

.^

,

1.

It ]*•

The aft of confuiti ng.
Yourfi-lf' -n

pc-.!"o-i

head or;e choCen half.

And raa.ch t' opprcfs the faQion in confulf
With d,liig Dorax.
2.

Drydcn'tjim Stbap'iaa,

The effeft of confuiting ;

determinij-

tion.

3

E

He

Hf f>M, tnd roft thf firft

;

CON

CON

CON
the eeoncil fcrok* }

There dial] we cmjtinman our fpouW ritet.

I

And all their grave mvjultt dilTolT'd in rmoke'
The perfon was cunning enough

Drytien^s Fahlft,

A cooncil

3.

;

deceit in the weaker, and the we;ikcr fufKcient to

a number of perfons affem-

nnjummatt the fraud in the Wronger.

bled in deliberation.
Diven meet.ng« and cenfulit of our whole num-

frofcin'i l^vlgar Emiirt.

He had a mind to ccufumiiate the bappinefs or

Bacon-

ber, to conlider of the former labours.

the day.

A etKjult of co<}uets below

Wu

call'd, to tig him out a beio.

Stvifr.

Shakcjfttri,
to begin the

Complete ;

a.'//,

[from

perfect ;

the

finiftied :

verb.]
omnibus

I

Shiikefpurt,

Mjrk, xv. 1.
2. A number of perlons confulted together

Earth, In her rich attire
CcnjummatCy lovely fmil'd. AiUftHtU Farjdijt hoji*
Gratlan, among his maxims for raifing a man
to the moll ccnfummaie greatnefs, advifes to perform extraordinary actions, and to fccurc a good
'
hlllorian.
MdiJfin'iFraboldir,
If a man of perfe£t and eorfummate virtue £alls
into a misfortune, it raifes our pity, but not our

elders »nd Icribcs.

a council.

A ccnJuUaiion was called, wherein he advifed a
H^ljiiruni nf Atfctfiu

falivation.

3.

[In law.] CaH/altaiie is a writ, whereby
a cauie, being formerly removed by prohibition from the ecdeiiaftical court, or

court chriiUau, to the king's court, is
returned thither again : for the judges of
the king's court, if, upon comparing the
libel with the fuggeuion of the party,
they do find the fuggelUon falfe, or not
proved, and therefore the caufe to be
wrongfully called from the court chriU
tiau ; then, upon this confultation or deliberation, decree is to be returned
C<nvell.
again.

Cohsu'lter. h./. [from con/uh.'\
that confults, or

Completion ; perfedtion ; end.

That juft and regular proccfs, which it muH be
cmjummati K.
Mdifm's Sfcflalor.
2. The end of the prefent fyftem of things ;
the end of the world.
fuppofird to take from its original to its

Hooker,

can bCj otherwife.

Death; end of life.

3.

to another.

That deleterious it may be at fome diftance, and
dcftruflivc without corporal ctniadkn, there is no

I

Quiet confiimmat'wn have,.
Uniemoved be thy grave

Consu'mable. a<^". [from «»/««*.]

!

Sbak. CymieHnei

!

Consu'mption'.

n./. [con/umptio, Lat.]
The aft of confuming ; wafte ; deftruc-

1.

tion.
In commodities, the value rlfea as Its quantity
Is lefii and vent greater; which depends upon its

Suf-

ceptible of deilrudion ; pofFtble to be
wafted, fpent, or deftroyed.
Albcftos dues truly agree in this common quality

being preferred in its conjumfftion*

fuliginous matter from the earthy parts of the oil,

though it was tried with fome of the pureft oil,
that in a very few days it did choak and extinguilh
the flame.
If^ilkini't Mathaiulual Marict.

Our growing rich or poor depends only on, »-nich

diminution or confumftion \ but are,

[coti/uma,

phyfick.]
A wafte of mufcular
It is frequently attended with a
flefti.
heftick fever, and is divided by phyftcians into feveral kinds, according to
putney.
the variety of its caufes.

Latin.]

to fpend ; to deftroy.

Where two raging fires meet together.
They do eenfuwu the thing that feeds their fury.

at this day,

[In

greater or lefs, our importation or exportation of
ccnfumahie commodities.
Lock*.

;

Conjumptton fow
In hollow bones of man.

The ftoppage of women's courfcs, if cot looked
to, fets them into a confumfittorif dropfy, or other

for the loculls Ihall

Harvey.

difeafe.

Dcui. xxviii.

The encntial and dlAinguilhing charafler of a

Thus in foft anguilh (he rmfumei tht day.
Nor quits her det-p retirement. Thtmfin'i Sfrin~.

confirmed confumjitkn, is a wafting of the body by
reafon of an ulcerated ftate of the lungs, attended
with a cough, a difcharge of purulent matter, and
a heOick fever.
Blackmore.

ST> Consu'me. t;. «.

To wafte away ; to

be exhaafted.
Thefe violent delights have violent ends,
And !n their triumph die ; like fire and powder,
•Which, as they raeeb emtfitme. Stai.Rcm.aiulJul.

Consu'mer. ». /. [from con/ume.l
that fpends,
thing.

wailes,

One
any

or deftroys

of the nrrcjiant who buys the com-

itiodity, when

Consu'mptive. adj. [from con/ume.]
1.

Deftruftive ; wafting ; exhaufting; having the quality of confuming,

A long confumplrve war is more likely to break
this grand alliance than difable France.

jiddifin Ml the War.

Money miy be conlideccd as in the hands of the
made to export.

y« CONSU'MMATE.

-v.

Lech-.

a.

[confommtr,

¥t. ron/ummare,hAX..'\ To complete; to
perfeft ; to finifh ; to end.
Anciently
accented on the firft fyllable.
Yourfelf, myfelf, and other lords, will pafs

To ctn/umiualt thiii buiinefs happily.
Stakcjfcere'i King "Jibti.

fttength and good difpofition tliereof, repulfed.
Sttcon*

2. Infeftion ;

2. Difeafed with a confumption.
Nothing taints found lungs fooner than Infpiring
the breath of confumpt'rve lungs.
Harvey on Confumbtiom,
The lean, eofifumfiive wench, with coughs de-

Nor will the goodnefs of intention excufe the

Kw^Cbarln,
fcandal and emM^o/i of example.
Down fell they,
And the dire hifs renew'd, and the dire form
,

Catch'd by rmlagion,

Shakeffeart'i yuliui Cafar.

Codta'cious. adj. [from rt«//ifJo, Lat.}
by approach ; poi-

fonons i peftilential.

The jades.
That drag the tragick melancholy nighty

From their mifty jaws
Breathe foul, contagious darknefs In the air.
Shakefpeari's Henry VI.
We ficken foon from her contagkus care,
CrieK for her forrows, groan for her defpair.
Prior.

Conta'oiousness. »./. [from ctmagious.']

The quality of being contagious.

To CON TA'IN. <v. a.

[coniineo,

Latin.]

To hold as a veffel.

1.

There are many other things which Jefus did,
the which if they (hould be written every one, I
fuppofe that even the world itfelf could not tintam
the bonks that (hould be written,
^obn, xxi. 15.
Gently inftru£led I (hall hence depart.
Greatly in peace of thought, and have my (ill

Of knowledge what this veffel can contain. ]Uillo».

cayed,

What thy ftores contain bring forth, and pour

By an exadl regimen a conjamptive perfon may

Consu'mptiveness.

Milton's Parad'.Je L'fl,

3. Peftilence ; venomous emanations.
Will he fte.il out of his wholcfonx bed.
To dare the vile conlagion of the night ?

It call'd a pretty, tight, and (lender maid. Dryden.

hold out for years.

propagation of mifchief, or

Infeftious ; caught

Shatitffeartt

and fhalt gather but tittle in ;

j

the plague and the like, the infection is received
many times by the body palTivc ; but yet is, by the

Slake/feare't Timon.

Thou flialt carry much feed out into the field,
ten/time it.

;

difeafe.

the highell mountains in thofe countries. H^oodiv.

3.

IS

To CONSU'ME. v. a.

Locke,

Etna and Vefuvius have fent forth flames for
this two or three thoufand years, yet the mountains themfelves have not fu^ered anyconfiderable

nnjumabh by fire j but it doth contra£t To much

we two be one, and thou play falfe,
do digeft the poifon of thy flelh.
Being (trumpeted by thy contagion.
Shaktjfiare'i Comedy of Errours,
In infeflion and contagkn from body to body, at

I

The ftate of wafting or periftiing.

2.

afcribod unto both, of being incombu{Vible, and not

which diieafes are communicated.
.If

!

•

•r a con/ulttr with familiar fpirits, or a wiznrd.
Dtut. xvili. II.

Bromn"! Iful^ar Errours,

high impr'ibability.

(j:ONTA'GION. »./ \_contagio, Latin:]
The emiftion- fr&ro body to body b^
1.

Nothing ill come near thee

»&s counfel or intelli-

There Ihall not be found among you a charmer,

_^tcitfamrr, tr

CoNTA'cTto^. «. / [contaittn, Latin.]
The aft of touching ; a joining one body

Gholl, unlaid, forbear thee !

One

gence.

To wafte

Ntv/ion'i Opiicks,
be wholly tranfmitted.
The air, by its immediate ccnrali, may coagulate
the
air-bladders.
along
which
flows
,
the blood
'
Arhulhn'A on DieK

From the firll beginning of the, world unto the
lad ceyijutnmatkn thereof, it neither hath been, nqr

jundture of one

The Platonilts hold, that the fpirit of the lover
doth pafs into the fpirits of the perfon loved, which
caufeth the defite of return into the body; whereupon followcth that appetite of entail and conBacoiCi Natural Hijiory.
junftion.
When the light fell fo obliquely on the air,
which in otlier places was between them, as to be
all refliifled, it fcemed in that place of toHtaa to

CoNSUMM a'tion. »./. [from con/ummate.']
1.

Latin. ]

[ contaaus,

Touch ; clofe union ;
body to another.

Aldifon*s Sj>i^atvr,

tcrrour.

'

{contahulatlt,

a boarding a floor.

CO'NTAC T. n. f.

do but ftay till your marriage be cmfummatt,

the

«. /.

A joining of boards together

Latin.]

numerii ah/olutus,

tion.

The chief priefti held a cmfiiltatKn with

Contabula'tion.

Tatlcr_

Consu'mmate.

Consulta'tion. »./. [from cen/ule.]
The aft of confulting ; fecret delibera1

C0N5u'T!LI.4f<<r. [..-tHfulilit.LH.] TV»t
Diff.
is fewed or ftitched together.
To CONTA'BULATE. v. a. [contabulo,
To floor with boards.
Latin.]

jirhuthnot in Diet.

[from (on/umftivf,] A tendency to a confumption
«. /.

Abundance.
2.

To comprehend

Milton.
;

to comprife.

What feem'd fair in all the world, feero'd now
Mcani 01 in iia fuotm'd up, in her fntain'd.
M'l"n,

Tht

:

[from eonTo Conte'mperate. f.
temper.
To diminifh any quality by
fomething contrary j to moderate ; to
temper.
The mighty Nile and Niger do not only moiften

The earth,

"^

Nor glift'ring, may of fcliij good contain
More plenty than the fun, that barten <hines.
Miltm.

To comprife, as a writing.

and ontemperate the air, but refrelh and humeflate

Wherefore alfo it it cmtainid ia the fcripture.
I

4.

To reftrain

;

If blood abound, let It out, regulating the patient's diet, and conumperating the humours.
fyifejnan''t Surgery,

to withhold j to keep with-

AH men (hovild be covtainai in duty ever after,

Contempera'tion. h./.

without the tertour of warlike forces.

[from contem-

TeCovrs'itt. <v.n. To live in continence.
1 felt the ardour of my pallion increafe, till 1

nuation in life, is not nutrition, but the contemperaBrovvn^s l^ulg. Err.
tion of fervour in the heart.

Thcie is not greater variety in men's faces, and
in the contemperationi of their natural humourv,

Mrbutbnot and Poj}e,

Co N T a'i N A B L I atfj. [from contain. ] Poifible to be contained.
The M,conia\ttMi within the cavity of the coli-

raCONTE'MPLATE. -v. a. [contimplor,
Lacin. This feems to have been once
accented on the firft fyllable.] To confider with continued attention ; toftudy ;
to medicate.

Tv CONTA'MINATE. v. a. [contamino,
Lat.] To defile ; to pollute ; to corrupt
by bafe mixture.
Sl:aU we now
Cmtimnauatu fingers with bafe bribet?
Sbaiijfurii Julius Cttfar.
A bafe pander holds the chamber-door,
Whilft by a flave, no gentler than a dog.
His faiteft daughter ii nntjminated,
Stattffran'i Henry V.
Do it not with poifon ; ftrsngle her in her bed,
£veainthe bedlhchathi.'i7rr!77n:fri7ff</. Shak< OtbelU.

There

is

not

much difficulty in confining the

Sbakeffeare't Hemy VI.

Though itbeneceiritated, by its leiation toflefb,

Contempla'tion. n. /. [from contem-

Befpoke him thus t contom'matedy bafe.

And milbegotten blood I fpill of thine.
like

the

fun,

without c^niemrMUnz its beams. Glanville't Afil.
He that lies with another man's wife, propa-

plate.^
1.

Ayliffe'i

Sbakefpiure,

in ?

Panrgan.

Contemplation is keeping the idea, which is brought

CoNTAMiN a'tion. ».y^ [A'Om tontaminaie.]

Meditation; lludious thought on any
fubjeft ; continued attention.
Huw now ? what ferious contemplation are you

gates children in another's family for him to keep,
and coMMmnata Che honour thereof as much as

in him lies.

2.

Violated ; polluted.
Did.
To CONTE'MN. -j. a [contemno, Latin.]
tin.]

;

to fcorn ;

to flight ;

Eve, thy contcmj't of life and pleafure leems

gain the greateft fiiare in their applaufes.

Mdifoni Freeholder,

To Conte'mporise. f. a, \^con and ternpus, Latin.]
To make contemporary ;
to place in the fame age.
The indift'crency of their exiftences, contemporifcd
into our a&iont, admits a farther confideration.

Brown^s Vulgar Errours*

CONTE'MPT. »./. [con'temptut, Latin.]
1.

It

;

The faculty of itudy

:

oppoled to the

[from contem-

Given to thought or ftudy ;
Fixt and antempltuive their looks.
turning over nature's books.

To CONTE'MPER. -v. a. [conUmpere, Lamoderate ; to reduce to z
lower degree by mixing fomething of

adj,

iludious ;

thoughtful.

S-nttb.

To

South.

Still

2.

Denbam.

Employed in ftudy ; dedicated to ftudy.
I

His friend fmil'd fcornful, and with proud run*

;

plate. '\
1

Hiip, not only 31 contcmncri of the gods, but diituib

am no courtier, nor vcifed in rtate allairs

t^mpt

Rejeds as idle what his fellow dreamt.
Bryden^i Fables.

Nothing, fays Longinus, can be great, the eontem[>t of wliich is great.
AJdiJon,
2. The ftate of being defpifed ; vilenefs.
The place was like to come unto contempt.
1 Mac. iii. iS.

Conte'mpt iBi-E.
1.

;

my lite hath rather been eonlemplaiive than a^ivc.

oppofite qualities.

The leaves qualify aAd eontanftr the beat, and

Bacon.
Contemplative men may be without the pleafure of
difcovcfing the fecrets of ftate, and men of adion
are commonly witiiout the pleufure of tracing the

hinder theevaporationof mi)ifture.J!<i)i on tbe treat.

CoNTe'mPER AMENT. »./ [from fJ/I/COTfira, Latin.] The degree of any quality.

fecrets of divine art.

There is nearly an equal itntempiramint of the

warmth of our bodies to that of the hutteft par' nr
Derbam.

3.

EJlhtTm

impaticntthan of contempt; it being an undervaluing
of a man, upun a belief of his utter ufelelTncfs and
inability, and a fpiteful endeavour to engage the
rc/l of the woild in the fame flight eAeem of him.

There arc two functions, contemplation and pracacording to thjt general divifion of objcfts
fame of which entertain our fpeculation, ntl.er;
employ our anions.
South.

Conte'mner. »./. [from con/emti.] One Conte'mpla riVE.
that contemns ; a dtfpifer ; a fcorner.
He counlels him to perfttutc innovators of wor-

was neither in contempt nor pride that I did'

The ftiame of being miferable,
Expofes men to fcorn and bafe contempt,
Denbam,
Even from their ncareft friends.
There is no a^ion, in the behaviour of one man
towards another, of which human nature is more

tice,

Drydens VirgiVt j^neid.

The aft of defpifing others j flight regard ; fcora.
not bow.

Holy meditation a holy exercife of the
foul, employed in attention to facred

power of aftion.

One who c^ntimn'd divine and human laWs ;

atiBofpbere.

for the good of their contemporaries, very defervcdljr

Shiikcipeare^i Merchant of Venice,

Pygmalion then the Tyrian fceptre fway'd.

{tie

The adlive part of mankind, as they do moft

Only attended by NerifTa here.
3

Drydens Juv, Prefate.

detrailing.

have breath'd a fecret vow
To live in prayer and ct/ntcmplation,

And excellent than what thy mind conlemni. Milt.

tin.]

at the fame time with another.
All this in blooming youth you have achiev'd ;
Nor are your foil'd contemporaries griev'd. DryJen.
As he has been favourable to me, he will hear
of his kindncfs from our contemporaries; for we
are fallen into an age illiterate, cenforious, and

I

To argue in thee fc.mcthing more fublime

crs of the ftjtc.

Conte'mporarv. n. /. One who live*

things.

to dif-

regard ; to negleft ; to defy.
Yet better thu^, and known to be contemned.
Than ftill eonltmired and flattered. Sbak. King Lear.

Then ftrifc enfued.

to-day, and to-morrow, to be the fame j or bring
ages paft and future together, and make them
Locke.
contemporary.

Locke,
,

Born at the fame time.

And loves his old contemporary trees.
Cowley*
3. Exiiling at the fame point of time.
It is impolfible to make tlic ideas of yefterday,

into the mind, for ibme time afiually in view.

Pollution ; defilement.

Court MlKAT tn.at/J. [contemeratus LaTo dcfpile

«.

think fludioufly with long attention.
So many hours muft 1 tak': my relt
So many hours muft 1 contemplate, Shak. Henry VI.

quickly Ihed

Living in the fame age ; coetaneous.
Albert Durer was contemporary to Lucas.
Dryden't Dufrejny,

To Conte'mplate. v. ». Tomufe; to

Some of hii baftatd blood, and in difgrace

terredrial convcrfe j yet 'tit,

French.]
I.

mind to contemplate what we have a great defire to
know.
Waits.

Sapor had an heaven of glafs, which he trod upon,
contemplating over the fame as if he had been Jupiter.
Peacbem.
How can I confider what belongs to myfcif,
when I have been fo long contemplating on you ?
Dryden's Juvenal, Prcftice.

to a

Brovfn's l^ulgar Errourz,

CONTE'MPORARY. adj. [contempQram

A grove born with himfcif he fees.

Hale'i Origin of Mankind.

Bv)U.

p'k, amounted to eleven graint.

contemplaton rejeft both thefc

defcriptions, founded upon parts and colours.

than there is in their phantalies*

.

Raleigb^t Hi/lory^

The Platonick

Proportionate mixture ;^ proportion.

2.

In the Perfian tongue the word magut imports
much as a conlemplator of divine and heavenljr

fcience.

admixture of the contrary ; the adl of
moderating or tempering.
The ufe of air, without which there is no conti-

you, firs.

Sbakej'peare.

I

as

The aft of diminifhing any quality by

1.

If you tkcvM fmile, he grows impatient.
vFear not, my lord, we can cmia'm ourfelves.

could no longer c9rfaht,

Ray OK tbe Creation.
[from contemflafi've.} Thoughtfully ; attentively ;
with deep attention.
Contempla'tor. n. /. [Latin.] One
employed in ftudy ; an enquirer after
knowledge ; a fludent.

Conte'mplativelt. aJv.

perate.']

Sfcnfir on Ireland.

Their Icing'* perfon nntaht the unruly people
Sfenfer.
from evil oee ifions.
t(-*ll

Brown.

the earth.

Fet. ii. 6.

in bounds.

1

So many kinds of creatures might be to exercife
the contemplative faculty of man.

a,

ThoTigh In comparifon of heav'n fo fmall,

3.

CON

CON

CON

Grnu'i Cofmolog:a.

Having the power of thought or medi-

[from

adj.

contempt,'\

Worthy of contempt deferving fcorn.
No man truly knows himfelf, but he groweth
;

daily more contemptible in his own eyes.

Taylor^s Guide to Devotion.

From no one vice exempt,
Anil moft conlempiitle to fhun contempt. Pope's Ep.

2.

Defpifed ; fcorned ; neglefted.
.There is not fo contemptible a plant or animsl, that
does not confound the tiioH enlarged undorflaudirg.

Uike.

tation.

3 £ 2

3. Scorn*

CON
1 ills is no proper uic.
her Ion, 'tis very
for the man hath tartiiiiif

*t flic iliouU n)a>:a trnJ^-r of
p..irii>klio'l; Icom it J
'

Co.K.rB'MPTiBi.kNHS8. n. f, {from «*fcm/tiiU] *r he Hate of being contemptible ; the ftate of being dcfpifed ; mean-

aijy

or included, in any thiag.
I'hough my htart's r ;« tent firm love dothbear.
Nothing of tbat (hall from mine eyes appear,

And on the giesn c.attnd the wreftler's prire.
DryHen't MneU.

Scarcely any thing can be determined of the par*
Xicui^j contents of any finglc mafs of ore by mere in«

diipute

Shakefpeartt

Their uiry limbs in <partt they exercife.

A time of war at length will come,
'

Shut from this day and that fiff/M:fr<f fky. Dryden.

Conte'mptibly. ad-v. [from eontempti-

tagoniA ; opponent ; champion ; com-

in a

Dryden.

Thus low we I'e,

manner deferving

batant.
In

contempt.
Know'ft thoa not
Their language, and their ways ? They alfo know,

And rcjfon no: {ottiniy.hiy.

MiluiCt Par. Left.

•

The contenders tut it look upon it as undeniable.
Lxke.
Thofe difputes ofren arife in good earnefl where
the two contenders. iry really believe the ditf'etcnc
propofitions which they fupport.
ffttts on the Mind.
,

CONTETVIT. adj. {ccntentus, Latin.]
Satisfied, fo as not to repine; eafy,
though not highly plcafed.

1,

Born to the fpacious empire of the Nine,

One would have thought Hie Should have been ecntent

To manjge well that mighty government. Dryden.

CnnttmftuMis, proud, fet on revenge and fpite.

Who is content, is happy.

Mihoni Agtinijies,
Rome, the proudeft part of the heathen world,

A man

Lode.

is perfectly cortent with the

.late he is in,

entertained the moft amcmftuius opinion of thr
Asltrhuij.
jews.

when he is perfeflly without anyuneafinefs. Lcckt.

Con tb'mftttotjslt. adv. [fromcentemp-

Content with fcience in the vale of peace.
Pope-t EpiJIla.

t«ous.'\

(

With

fcorn ;

with

'

To fuffer lawful cenfure.

;

Content thyfelf with

this

much, and

let

contempt;

To vie

to a£> in emulation.
;
Von fit aliove, and ue vain men beiow

CeninJ for what j.u only can bellow.

To plcafe

2.

I.

Dry Jen.

6.

Sometimes agalnfl.

Like you conttnted with his native groves.

State of fatisfaftion in any lot.
Angling was, after tedious ftudy, a calmer of
unquiet thoughts, a moderator of paffions, a pro-

1 .

rence

Shakefpeare's Macbeth.

Drytten.

wife content his even foul fecur'd ;

By want not (haken, nor by wealth allur'd.

Avoid
contentioni

foolilh

Shakefpeare,
qucftions and genealogies, and

and ftrivings.

Tit. iii. 9.

Smith on Philips.

Can they keep themfelves In a perpetual content
t'ton with their eafe, their reafon, and their God,

Acquiefcence ; fatisfa6Uon in a thing

and not endure a Ihort combat with 3 (infulcuf.

unexamined.

torn

Decay of Piety.
z.

.'

Safely, I think; 'twas a conter.tien in publick.

'

One thought content the good to be enjoy'd

A

tfalton's Angler.

Conte'ntion. m./. [contentio, Latin.]
Strife ; debate ; conteft ; quarrel ; mutual oppofition.
Can we with manners alk what was the difle-

Where our define is jot without content.

This every little accident deftroyed.

Pope,

Conte'ntedness.w./ [from. coitttftted.}

curer of ccntentedneft.

Moderate happinefs ; fuch fatisfaftion
as, though it does not fill up defire, appeafes complaint.
Nought 's had, all 's fpent.

He will find that many thiags he fiercely ««has tv/'/A before the opponent.
This baitle fares like to the morning's war.
When dying clouds tontend tuiib growing light.
Sbakeffeare's Henry VI.
Tf we confider him at our Maker, we tannci
tiinpie.
cortcnd tvitb Wtm.

Denbam,

,•«
To diftant
lands Verturanus ncrer roves.
o.

CoNTE NT. «./. [from the verb.]

bometimes aitut.

5. It

Milton's Paradife Lojt,

If he can defcry
Some nobler foe approach, to hint he calls,
And begs his fate, and then contented falls.

Shakefpeare's Hamlet.

If a man fo temper his adions, as in fome one
of them he dotli content every fa^ion, the mufick
of praife will be fuller.
Bacon.
Wheat is contented with a meaner earth, and
contenting with a fi:itable gain. Careiv's Cornwall.

our author would contend

lenM abTUt were trivial.

Not of earth only, but of highelt hcav'n.

to gratify.

To hear him fo indin'd.

fci , i: he did not forge: it, is, what pexibcs have a
Locke.
righl ID be obe)ed.

-

Knolles's Hiftay.

Dream not of other worlds.
Contented that thus far has been reveal'd.

Is the adder better than the eel,
Becaufe his painted (kin conttnts the eye ? Sbakefp.
It doth much content me.

contention.

4.

;

not repin-

BarbarolTa, in hope by fufTerance to obtain an«
Other kingdom, feemed conttmed with the anfwer.

this

lyatts'sLogick.

3. it has/er before the ground or caufe of

The <]ueftion which

at quiet;

ing ; not demanding more ; eafy, tho*
not plenarily happy.

fufed ideas, where clearer are to be attained.

infolence.

Satisfied;

tent,']

Sidney.

Citisfythee, that I love thee.

Great minds do fometimes content themfelves to

2.

Sidney.

Fourteen years fpace, during the minority of
Gordianus, the government was with great applaufe and contcntation in the hands of Mifitheus,
a pedant.
Bacon.
The (hield was not long after incrufted with a
new rulV, and is the fame, a cut of which hath
been engraved and exhibited, to the great contentat'lon of the learned.
Arhuthnot and Pope.

happinefs or complete gratification.

Tillotjcn.
threaten, when they could dellroy.
Do not content yourfelves with obfcare and con-

Heflor's foreheal fpit forth blood
At Grecian iv(iTi% rinttrii'tri. Sbakefp. C^hlanus.
His wonders and his praifes do contend
Which (h'luld be thine or his. Shakeff, Macbeth.
Dc^th and nature do conrend about them,
Wlierher they liri! or die.
l^balrfpcare'i Macbeth.
Diftrefs not the Moabltcs, neither centind with
tt«m in battle J ict I will not give thee of their
Diui. ii. 9.
Ur.d.

tentation.

not

Tilimjsm.

Diii.
To CONTE'ND. v. n. [canuudo, Latin.]
1 . To drive ; to ftragglc in oppoficion.

Satisfadlion ; content.
Out of ufe.
I feek no better warrant than my own confcience, nor 00 greater pleafure than my own con-

to offend ; to appeafe, without plenary

Conte'mptuousness, n. f. [from conDifpofition to

jiddifon's Speftattr,

Contenta'tion. n. f. [from content,^

Shakefpeare'! Coriolanas.

To fatisfy, fo as to ftop complaint

1

A wife man would not fpeak cmittrnpiMufy ot a
temftuaus.]

fliall

TeCoNTE'NT. If. «. [from the adjeftive.] Conte'wted. participial adj. [from con~

VEftrtnge.
prince, though out of his dominions.

Sbakefp,
prove thefe writings not counterfeits,
but authentick ; and the contents true, and worthy
of a divine original.
Crew's Cofmol»ia.
The contents of both books come before thole of
the firft book, in the thread of tiie (lory.
I

Satisfied, fo as not to oppofe.
Submit you to the people's voices^
Allow their oihcers, and be content

2.

poor, and ufed mutmfttitivjly. Taylor's Hah Living.
If he governs tyrannically in youth, he will be
treated contimptu'.ujly in age ; and the bafer his
enemies, the more intolerable the affront.

I have a letter from her.

Of fuch contents as you will wonder at.

Foe to loud praife, and friend to learned eafe.

defpite

fcorhfully ; defpitefally.
1 throw my name againft the bruifing (lone,
Trampling <ontmftutyj1y on thy diadem. Shakcff.
The apoftles and moft eminent Chriftians were

That which is comprifed in a writing.
In this fenfe the plural only is in ufe.

5.

batant ; champion.

Raltigh-i HiJIory of the mrli.
Some much avetfe 1 found, and wond'rous harft,

t

'
according to natural bounds.
Crannt's Bills of Mortality,

L'F.flrangc.

party.

good to know the geometrical content,

It were

figure, and fituation of ail Uie lands of a kingdom,

made a prey to the third

Conte'nder. »./. [from contend.'] Com-

';

other tiian a rebelUous prefumption, and even a
icr.umpiucui laughing to ("corn and deriding ci
GiSt, 1>is Itvw, and precepts, i

ftU!

extent ; ca-

;

pacity.
This ((land had then fifteen hundred ftrong
Bacon,
(hips of great content.

Not ufed.

have been

The power of containing

4.

all notable changes and rcvolations, the eon-

ter.dents

Conte'mptuous. a<!j. [from conlempt.']
Scor.iiul ; apt to defpife ; nfmg words
or anions of contempt ; infolent.
"To nsglefl God ail our lives, and know th^t
we fttj:le<l him >« ""end God voluntarily, aijd
tTioiv tt'.at we ofiend liim, rafting our hopes on
t)i* peace which we tmft to make at parting, is ho

Wi.tkoard,
Experiments are made on the blood of healJiy
animals: in a weak babic ferum might afford
Arbuthnm,
other eomenit,

fpe^oiu

When Carthage Oiall comcrd the world with Rome.

Cokte'ndent. n,'/. [from contend.'] An-

Meanly ;

IS contained,

thing; to conteft.

D'cy •/" Pi"y-

6ie.]

•

To

To CoiiTE'.ND. V. a.

nels ; vilenefs ; bafenefs ; chcapnefs.
V\ ho, by a ftcddy praifkice I't" virtur, comes to
difccrn the (auiinftibkncji of baits wherewith he
allures us.

•

^hahh. CorUlanm.

Cintmd aguir/! thy valour.

^hakijfrati.

iiMc i'uiii'..

3. [From eententut, contained.] That which

In ambitious ftrcogth I diJ

Scornful ; apt to defpife ; contemptnous.

'j.

'

CON

N

i^C O

Others for language all their careexprefs,
And value books, as women men, for drefs ;
Their praiie is ftlll—the ftilt is excellent j

The Icufc (hey humbly Ukc upon content.
Poft't Epijiles.

Duay of Piety.
The ancients made contention the principle that
.'

reigned in the chaos at firft, and then love ; the
one to cxprefs the diviSons, ana the other the
union of all parties in the middle and coromoa

bond,

Burtufs Theory' of the E^rtb.

2, Emulation;

ki'o^
a.

Emulation ; endeavour to excel.

'Tis evident upon what account none have preto contcji the proportion of thcfe ancient

z^

Eagernefs ;

;'

ardour j vehemence

of endeavour.

ious, aJJ. [from confeitJ.']
tp debate ;

rellbme ; given
not peaceable.

Quar-

Thou thi.ikeft much that this enilititiius ftotm
Shai'/pmrc's KhgLctA:
csiUetituus

humours that

ate

_
L'EJirarge.
never to be pleafed.
Reft made them idle, idlenels made them curiDecay of Piit^.
ous, and curiofityrMi.rfii*!.
.

Cost itiT\o\3% Jun/tiiaim. [Inlaw.] A
court which has a power to judge and
determine differences between contending parties. The lord chief juftices,
and judges, have a contentious jurifdiction ; bat the lords of the treafury, antl
the commiffioners of the cuftoms, have
none, being merely judges of accounts
Chamber^.
and tranfaftions.
Conte'ntiously. adv. [from contenWefl>alinot{OH/fi:..';aJ<j/ lejoin, or only lojuftify

our own, but to applaud and confirm bis maturer
Sroiot.

aiTertiom.

Conte'ntiouskess. «. /. [from cc/iteatious.'\

nefs ;

"

•with.

Pronenefs to contell; perverfeturbulence ; quarreHbmenefs.

Do not ctmletiiioulnefi, and cruelty, and ftudy of
revenge, feldom fail of retaliation ?

'

'

•

T'lie difBcuttyof in

,

.

Bentlty^t Sermon^,

diffatisfied ;

uneafy.

Bert ftases, coiiiir.thft.

Have a diftraflcd and moft wrerclied being,
Worfe than the worfl, content. Sbakejfiarc'i Tims*.

Conte'ntment. »./. [from conttntt the
verb.]
1, Acquiefcence,

plenary

fatif-

fa£lion.
Such men's cntmmnit muft bewrenghtbyftraCagem : the ufuai method of ^re is not for them.
li'.'oker.

Sabmiflion

is

the

only rcafoning between a

Maker, and conterimcr.f in his will
is the b«ft remedy we can apply to misfortunes.
Tmplt.
Cfnintmtnl, withotit external honour, is humicreature and

lity ;

its

Without the pleafure of eating, temperance.
Grtiu*s C'fmt>l*gia»

exqulfite care to place the

Tbole call it pieaiure, and cmicnimttit thefe.,
Pjpet EJfaf.
Btit now no face dirine {tmlftmnt wears,
*Tis all blank fadnefs, or continual tears.

P3/4.

2. Gratification.

At Paris the prince fpent ona whole day, to give
his mind foroe cimtentmcnt in viewing of a famous

Wilton.

Conte'rminous. adj. [conUrmi'ius, Latin.]

Bordering upon ; touching' at tht

j

other.

He defined magnatlcal altraflion to\e a natural
imitation and dilpofition conforming unto mntiBi'Civn*
gulfy.

pute ; difference ; debate'.
This ofold.no iels coniijii did move,
Thira when feriHobier's birth ltr»'ji cities ftrovej
•

'

ji

'.k- J

•
.

The immediate emigti'iiy ofthat icnvtt. were a

Dtrhaiii.

:

This conformed fo many of them, awnt ccntenaiiout to the coloniof and garrifjDS, to '.Ite Ro-

man laws.

IlaU,

Contehra'neous.
Lat.] Of the fame country.
adj.

To CONTE'ST. t». a.

[ conterraneus,

Di^.

[fome/ler, French,

probably from (onira te/luri, Latin.]

To

"^

AcHial contaft ; fituation in which two
bodies or countries touch tipori c!».ch

.

Co'ntest. n. f. [from tlie verb, it Is
now accented oa the firft fy liable.] Dif-

'^

,

.

CoNTiGu'iTY. ». f. [from contiguous.

li a!tU Origin

real fpace.

sf Mtnkind,

A definit^B is th^ oifljiinajr'whqTebyltbe mean- GONTrCUOUS. adj. [contlgmts, Latin.^
ing of word:i can be kaowiv, vii^ovt k^^vin^ roojn
huat.

for anujl about it.

Conte'stabib.
That may be

[from

adj.

contelled j

Meeting fo as to touch

1.

Leave all noify etntefls, all immodeft daVnouns,
and brawling language.
IVaitf.

;

bordering upon

not feparate.

-.teach other ;

•Flame doth not mingle with flame as air doth
with air, or water with water, but only remaincth

eoMejt.'\

tsK/ipims J as
bodies.

difputable ;

it

cometb to pafs betwixt confifting.
Bacon I Natural hijii^ry.

The loud mifrule

^

Contk'stableness. »./. [frotA ctntejla-

Of chaos far rempv'd ; lell riercc extremes,

Dtil.

C'jrtigiKiis, might diftemper the whole frame.

blt.}

Poffibilityofconteft.

Upon the globe, a mathematlck point
Only divides: thus happlnefs and mirsfy.

forbidden, and, which w»s
worfe, divers cmtiJiatiiAit even with the queen hcr-

Doors (hut,

vifits

And all extremes, are ftiU coinigtcu!.
Dcnham's Sofhy,.

JVoltOf.

felf,

Milt,

The Eaft and Weft,

Contest.\'tion. n. /. [ from reiff/e/?. ]
The aft of contefting J debate ; Ihife.

DirtingTtifli them by the dhninotion of the lights

After years fpent in domeftick, unfociabk cattejiations, fhe found means to withdraw. ChrcntJok.,

anvl

Aiadows, joining the CMti^itoai objefts by the

partici(^tion of their colours.

To

Diydeni DitfreJ^oy,

When 1 viewed it too near, the two haltji o£

weave together ; to unite by interp»ft^
tion of parts. This word is not in ufe.l

the paper did not appear fully dividsd from

Nature may ccnrtx a plant, though that be ^ perfeOly mixt concrete, without having all the elements {•.cviuuHy prefcnted to hci to com^ouisl it

anjlss.

2. It ha's fometimes nxiith.

Water,

The fluid body of quickfiKcr is ccnttscd with

Co'ntext. »./.

Without any intervening fpaoes.

Ihe

[(oijiext us, Luin.]

,

Con Ti'c nous Lv. ad-v. [fromfc^/y^aicaj.].

Bcy/t.

general feries of a difcoarfe; the parjs
of the difcourfe that precede and follow
the fentence quoted.
,/
That chapter is really a rcprcfeuta<>oa^f; onf,

Thus difembroil'd, they take their proper place.
The next of kin cr.nti^ucujiy embtacej
'

And foes are funder'd by a larger fpace.
'

his duty } as is maniftft from the ccniexi.

'
;

'

Hammof!t{ on yurrdhmftittt/l

.

Conte'xt, adj. [from ceniex.1 Knit to^

Conti'guousness. n./. [from contiguoiu."]

ii-i,

writeri.

2.

H^tiin.
pro.

tvery fpecies, atrerv...r.!s e-''' /Tn.
duced froui that idc^ fining
lexiure of created beings.'
i, j"". . ^^./jifmy.
'

Hence 'gan relax

The ground-'s conttxiurt

hence Tartarian dregs,
Sulpl;ur and nitrous fpume, cnkindiing fierce,
BcUow'd within tiieur daiklomc ca'.es.
I'bUifs.

is

pradliii'd

by few

IJryJet.'s Fahi,i, Ereftci,

Forbearance of lawful pieaiure.

3. Chaftity in general.

parate parts ; the fyllem ; the conliitutjon ; the manner in which any thing is
woven or formed.
'

which

Content without lawful venery, is coirr/fffffV/;
without unlawful, chaflity.
Grcw'i Cijmi/iigiat

difpofition of parts or.c

amongJl others S
the compofitioa of arty thing out bffe-

Dm,

ReRraint ; command of one's felf.
He knew what to lay; he knew alto when- to

)*»ve.ptf, a cotitimnce

,

Dtrham'i. Ebyjm-Tbah?^.

Conte'xture. «./. [from (i9n«.>r.J '^I'he

Cloft connexion ; coherence.

Co'nTI NENCE. -7
r
i
1
Co'NT-.NENCV.r--/- i""'""""^' »-«.]
,1.,

Hollow and thin, for lightneft) but Withal en -'
««/ and firm, fot ftrength.

:

Drydtn\ OviJi

1

.

;

which hath only the knowledge, not pradlice^ if

rather rturdy than dainty.^

air, cobleth it
Bacon's Natural Hiftory.

hz'in^ 'ccrtiguous ivltb

but moiflc'neth it not.

Bcyfc.

the faits i; carries up in fubliniacion.

one

hot fccmed contiguats at one 'of their
NcoHen'/ Ofiich,-

antfthSr,

Vt/iiere is

he ?—

—In her chamber, making a Icrmon of con!:nency to her, and rails, and fwears, and ratco,
t'baltifptwei Tatning of the 6br(w»
Sufler not dllhonour to approacii

He was nut'of any delicate cmtexiart; his limbs

boundaries.

7

of wood.

ShjJi^J^. Ccrkhnu:,

.Uochang'd, immortal, ana luprcmeiy l>lei>?

.

Walton,

Tjie aft of framing oi joining a fabrick

2.

Of man, who daraa in pomp w^i' Jove cesii^t

•

columns one over an-

other.

gcther ; firm.

Some place the blifs in afiion, fome in cafe

city.

in fevcral 'itories or ccntigvaikm, there muft be an

do cutitejt

of.

without

Whece more of the i>rders thaii ui.e ihall he fee

Burnet.

As liotly and as nobl)- ««* thy love,
Ai ever in ambitious ftrength'l did
Contend againlt ihy valt>ur.

,

^niiw.'i ArcbiteBure.

,

when there arc hopes of

To vie ; to emulate.

z.

.

ccntigtratkn, and not in ftoricd,buildings.

argumeht adds to'thfe plef-

furc of cQMcJiir.g isi^h II,
viflory.

-

.

.

•

'
.

Covte'wtless. at/;, [from content,] Dif- To CONTEX V. a. .[ccnttxo, Lat.]
contented ;

A sframe of beams joined together 5 a
Aory.
We mean a porch, or cloiftcr, or the like, of one

1

followed by

to -tentend :

j-

Contigna'tion. n.f. [contignatU, Lat.]

controvertible.

Perverfely ; quarrelfomely.

titui. ]

To ftrive

1

perverfe

InvaJes us to the (kin.

There are certain

Drydiif's Dufr^n'.^..

To Conte'st. nj. n.
I .

what you are about, will contioually.W^gtft to you
Bcldtr.
feye;al artifices.
.
^.
This is an end, w^ich at firtf TJew appears
Rcgers,
worthy cur utmofl avthithn to ol)taj'n>

Co N T e'n t

pieces.

earneftnefs and ccntnticn to »ffeR

Your own

B^ockmore.

"

fumc3

Shpkrffcare'sITiJtryYl.
2^.

Makes it the fliips, driv'n by the winds, obey;
Whence hardy merchants fail from ftiore to fhore.

call in queilion.

!

'''

Th'sapt, (fiT5^*tft «»&.'V«'of the fea,

to controvert'; fb Htlgate ; (o

"diiffute ;

Ions mi brother at a ftrife
Wha: 15 your qjirrtl ! howTiegan it firft ?
Ko qulrtci, bat i Twtet contcrtlm.

*'

^cPgPn

'cPcPn**

Th' imperial feat;

to virtue confecratc,

.Ta<ju(Uc<^.C(:»/;«i»i'ir,

and nobilhy.

Shat:</frarg\'2'itusj4nelr0mi'ul,'

Vji

:,

4..

Moderation in lawful pleafurcs.

,

'

,

Chaftity,

;

ftinejice

is

is

either

aLftmPncc or continence: ab-

that of viryins or widows j continence;

oT inariied perfons.

T.-ylor,

5.

Continuity J.

CON

C O .N

Continuity ; uninterrupted courfc.
Anrwen ought Co be mide before tlte fame

5.

judge, before whom the dcpofitionswere produced,
left the ctntaaict of llie courfe Ihould be divided ;
or, in other terms, left there diould be a dlfcontiAyliffci Parrrgcn.
nuanee of the caufe.

CCNTINENT. oJj. [continem, Latin.]
Challe; abllemious in lawful pleafurei.

1.

It is digged out of the earth cemingcvtlj, and ledifftrently, as the pyrita and agates.

Conti'nuate. adj. Wontinuatus, Latu).]

fVotdwari't t^atural Uijlay.

are of him and in him, even ai though
our very ficfli and bmes fltould be made ctntinuaH
Hooker,
with hii.

CoNTi'vCENTNESS. n.f.
gent ."^

Oppoiing;

4.

Staktfptart.

Co'ntikent. n.f. [contineni, Latin.]
I. Land not disjoined by the fea from
other lands.
Whether this portion of the world were rent

By the rude ocean from the contw^nt.
Or thus created, it was fure defign'd
tfallrr.

The declivity of rivers will be fo much the lefs,

This

That which contains any thing.

X.

fenfe is perhaps only in Shake/feare.

O cleave, my fides

room, where

Proti-iftion, or fucceflion uninterrupted.
Thefe things muft needs be the works of Providence, for The continuation o( the fpecies, and
upholding the world.
Ray,
The Roman poem is but the fecond part of the
Drydin,
Ilias; a rofitini/nriofi of the fame flory.

Conti'nuative. n,/. [from continuete.J

An

To thefe may be added ctntinuatitin i as, Rome
remains to this day) which includes at leaft two
propofitions, vi», Rome was, and Rome is.
ffaiis'i Lngiilk'

fire

is

continually kept,

or fucceflion.
It feems injurious to Providence to ordain a viray
of produAion which fliould dcftroy the producer,
or contrive the continuation of the fpecies by the
dcrtruilion of the continuator, Brotvnt t^ulg% Err,

hath been
Bjcon.

"Without ceaflng.

Why do not all animals continually increafe in To CONTI'NUE. V. n. [continuer, Fr. «»-

blgnefs, during the whole fpace of their lives ?
Bcntley^i Sermons.
.

fortuitous ; accidental poflibility.
Their credulities alTent unto any prognofticks,
which, confidering the contingency in events, are

tinuo, Latin.]

To remain in the fame (late, or place.

1.

The multitude continue with me now thiee days,
Mattbe^v, xv. 32.
and have nothing to eat.

The brute immediately regards his own prefer-

The popular vote

vation, or the continuance of bis fpecies.

Inclines here to continue, and build up here

A growing empire.

yiJdifin't SpefJalor.

2.

Long to continue,

Conlir.uance of evil doth in itfelf increafe evil.

it, firft,

fumcthing

fliall

3.

4.

qiieftion

the

continuance oflii?-

A proportion that falls to any perfon
upon a divifion thus, in time of war,
each prince of Germany is to furnifh
his ceiuingent of men, money, and mu-

jUdiJon's FrahclJcr.

5.

Perfeverance.

Accidentally ; without any fettled rule.

Impetuous, and continued till- the earth
No more was fecn.

To
1

To them who, by patient centinuanet in welldoing, feek for glory, and honour, and immortality, eternal life.
Rowiani, ii. 7.
6.

7.

Pj..!m xxxvi. io.

You know how tt make yburfelf happy, by

|

Wool, tow, cotton, and raw filk, have, hefides
the defire of continuance in regard of the tenuity
of their ckrcad, a freedinefs of moiilurs.
Bacon.

Mittm,

V. a,
To protraft, or hold without interrup\'n\iic..

O continue thy loving kindnefs unto them.

Progreflion of time.
In thy bonk aU my members were writteni
which in Cjntinaance were faftiioned.

Refiftancc to feparation of parts ; con-

Com

tion.

•••

Pfjlm, c<xxix. 16.

my dif.

yobn, viii. ji.

Down rulh'd the rain

Hayviurd.
Thatplcalure is not oi ^xvi'^er continuance, whicli
aiifes from tiK prejudice or malice of its hearers.

tinuity.

Conti'kcently. adv. [from contingent. ]

If ye «nfiii« in my word, then are ye
ciples indeed.

no greater {oniinuance than the other.

:

nition.

Brown't fulgar Errouri,

To perlevere.

3.

Sbak,Jfeare's Tivelfrh Night.
Th<;ir duty depending up-m fear, the one was of

ture contingenti, his conjeSures improving even to
Soutb'i ScrrncnM.

that rcll whereby all others ctmriitiir.

love.

Greiv^t CoJ'mohgia.
His underftanding eoalJ almoft pierce into fu-

2.

ration (hou'd live in a continued motion, without

Duration ; laflingnefs.
You either fear his humour, or my negligence,

,

By contirgenli we are ro underOanJ th >fc things
which come Co pafs without any human forecaft.

prophecy.

South.

Abode in a place.
that you call in

Samuel, x!ii. 14.

I

For here have we no continuing city, but we
H<ir:tcs, xiii. 14.
feck one to come,
They imagine that an animal of the longeft du-

fatisfy their mind', notwithftanding a known,

avowed continuance in fins.

Alifimt

to be durable.

;

Thy kingdom Hiall not continue.

fcienccs of men, by fuggcfting fomething which

Conti'noent. n.f.

A thing in the hands of chance.

To laft

2.

.

South.
fcture j fccondly, fomething contingent.
I firft informed myfelf in all material circumftances of it, in more plac&i than one, that there
might be nothing cafual or contingent in any one of
JVooJinard.
thofe circumftaneet.

1.

Continued making.

A chamber where a great fire is kept, though
the fire be at one ftay, yet with the continuance
Sidv.y.
continually hath its heat incrcafcd.
Thefc Romi(h cafuifts fpcak peace to the cnn-

Milrcnt

He (ix days and nights

Sidney.

Conti'ncent. adj. [contiiigem, Latin.]

Milton,

Happy, but fur fo happy ill fecur'd,

Permanence in one (late.

!

book;
If not thy firm, immutable decree,
At leaft the fecond page of great contingency.
Such as confifts with wills originally free. Drydcn.
Ariftotle fays, we are not to build certain rulei
S'^ath.
upon the contingency of human a£tions.

Hazard naturally implies in

noting permanence or

He that continues or keeps up the feries

Conti'ngencb. I »•/• [from eontingenf.] Conti'nuance. n./. [frota eontiaite.]
Conti'ncency. 5 The quality of being 1. Succeflion uninterrupted.

Falling out by chance ; accidental ; not
determinable by any certain rule.

expreflion

duration.

Continua'tor. n./. [from continuate.]

ufed (or perpetual.

tried with grapes.

z.

;

only in the prefcience of God. Brcnun's fulg. Err.
unfold thy adamantine
fox once, O heav'n

Continua'tiON. a.yl [from continuate-}

Without paufe ; without interruption.
The drawing of boughs into the infide of a

I.

contltiu-

'Ihe water afcends gently, and by intermiflions
mkini,
but it falls coniiauately, and with force.

ContTnually. adv. [from continual.']

To CdNTI'NGE. v.tt. [co»ii»so, Lat.]
To touch to reach to happen. Di3.
;

[from

Co-tvell.
It is fometimes

3.

\

Heart, once be ftronger than thy ctmtinmi ;
Crack thy frail cafe. Shak. jinttny and Cltopatn.
Clofe pent-up guilts
Ritevour contending (oritinertts* Sbijk. King Lear,

adv.

With continuity; without inter-

ruption.

Pope.

[In law.] A continual claim is made
from time to time, within every year
and day, to land or other thing, which,
in fome refpeft, we cannot attain with
For example, if I be difout danger.
feifed of land, into which, though I
have right into it, I dare not enter for
fear of beating ; it behooveth me to
hold on my right of entry to the beft
opportunity of me and mine heir, by
approaching as near it as I can, once
every year as long as I live ; and fo I
fave the right of entry to my heir.

z.

All etmtiiunt impediments would o'erbear,

and therefore the ctnl'mintt will be the lefs drained,
and will gradually increafe la humidity.
Be»!lty*s Sermom.

IdiltoH.

'Tit all blank fadncfl, or tonlinual laai.

defire

To be the facred refuge of mankind.

white j and bccometh moft black while it ii tontinuate and undivided, 15 we fee in deep waters and
Peacbfm.
thick glalTes.

ate.]

Our great foibidder.

reftraining.

That did oppofe my will.

Stakrffeare'i Thncr.

A clear body broken to fmall pieces produceth

Conti'nu ATEi.Y.

Other care perhaps
May have diverted from continual watch

conneded.

My

A moft incomparable man, breath'd, ai it Were,
To an untirable and ctntii.uate goodnefs.

Frtvcrit, xv.

feaft,

Sbakrfp. KingLear,

The north-eaft part of Afia, if not nni'mmi
with the weft fide of America, yet certainly is the
Icaft disjoined by fea of all thatcoaftof Afia.
SrtrneooJ on Langua^a,

Uninterrupted ; gnbroken.

Z,

proceeding without interruption ; fucceffive without any (ipacc of
time between. Continual is uiedof time,
and cuntinuaus of place.

He that is of a merry heart, hath a eontinaal

have a cwiineni forbearance, till the

3. Continuous ;

Accidentalnefi.

InceiTant ;

I.

Life

I pray you,

We

contin-

Conti'nual. adj. [«»/;«*«/. Latin.]

Hath been as cmlinmt, u chafte, as true.
Sbjkeff. ff^inta-'i 7aU.
As 1 »m now unhappy.
2. Reftrained; moderate; temperate.
fpeed of his rage goes Qoner.

[froffl

Immediately united.

I.

only continuing fuch a

life

as

you have been long

accullomed to lead.
2.

Pope.

To unite without a chafm, or intervening fubftance.
The ufe of the navel is to continue the

infant

unto the mother, and by the vei1i:ls thereof to
convey its alimeuts and fuftenance.
Brown'} fulrar Errouru

Th«

CON

CON

The dailt abj fs, whofc boil!n» gulph
Tamely endur'd a bridge of wDnd'roas length,

From hell ccnt'inued, read^ ig the utmofl orb

or this frail world.

Milan's Farajife Ltji.
Here Priam's fon, Deiphobus, he f^und,
TVhofe face and limbs were one continued wound ;
T^iilioneft, with lopp'd arms, the youth appears,
Spoird of his nofe, and Ihorten'd of his cars.
Drydcn's ^neid*
Where any motion or fucceflion is fo flow, as
tliat it keeps not pace with the ideas in our minds,
there the feries of a crjnftantiortw»i-J fucceflion is
loll ; and we perceive it not but with certain gaps
of reft between.
hwkc.
Conti'nuedly. ai-u. [from continued.']

Why love among the virtuci is not known

'

It Is, that love cjittrat?! them all in

-

^

IJtyJ

while' moving

-

,

to

m fo high a fphere.

The ftate of being contrafted, or drawn

3.

into a; narrow compafs.

incur; to

Some things induce a contraSiion in the nerves,-,'
placed in the mouth of the ftomach, which is a
great caufe of appetite.
Bacon,

King Chattel.

Comparing the quantity of contraffion and dilatation made by

all the degrees of each colour, I J
Nenvton's Opticks*
found it greateft in the red.
^
Dryden's ytvtital.
'4. [In grammar.]
The reduftion of two .
Uce friendly colours^ found them both unite,
vowels or fyllables to one.
And ejsh fjopi each fOB/Mif?. new ftrength and light.
:'
thing in its ftate of abbreviation
5.
Fife.
.,
.

,;

,

j

.

i

,

'

Any

.

kha^l^urisi ^Mrrit^ by having much

Soell

i

..-..•.Ji.

-

ratl&.

I

''

To Ikorten as, life was contraded.
to abridge.
animal body^ upon the deftrujtion qf which there 8. To epitomife
is faid to be a^fuluttpn of (tniimij^,
l^uincf.
f'o CoNT« a'ct. f «.
As m the natural body a wou/id'Or; fuiution of
to grow Ihort.
i. Ta ftirink up
ntitlnuity
j.

.

Siufi.

'

parti of, an

or contraftion : as, tbe turiting isfull tif

'

conwiftd with perfons of high ftations.

'

That lextgre or coheiiooiof- the

Oil of vitriol will throw the ftomach into involuntary contrarians.
Arbuthnot &n A'iments.

Contrufh tht danger of an adlual fault.

{

'

phyfick.

df merit and <j'a3-

He that but conceive! a crime in thought, i

.

Tft

faiaii

.-•-•

.

The aft of Ihrinking or Ihrivelling.

2.

draw ; to get.
Of enemies he could not but coBfrac? good (lore,

an appetite of union, and evltation of foluticn of contiMuity.
Bjccn't Natural Hijhry.
Alter th«, great lights th.^e mu* be great ftj-.
^ws, which we c»ii iTpofc« j betaofe in irjlity
the fight would be tired, if jf fiae ^tCra^rd by
«jirini(i/jf of glittering objeflsy
/ .X^Qujra.
It wraps itfelf about the flame, nr^
i/i'
awtfy hinders say air Or aitre from
....•-

;

I

To procure; to bring-;

6.

It is certain, that in all bodies there is

'^Au. ,

mi tthtraHl-HH.0 a

country,
.

clofe union.

_

The main parts of the poem, fuch as the fab!«
and fentimcnts, no tranllator can prejudice but by
omiflions or contra^ions.
Fope's Ejfay on Homer*

to affiance.

;

:

contraftions.

Contra'ctor. »./. [from contraa.] One.

;

of the parties to a contraft or bargain.
Let the meafure of your aflirmation or denial

'

.

be the, undeiftanding of your contraHor ; for he
that deceives the buyer or the feller by fpeaking
what is true, in a fenfe not underftood by the
Taylor's Rule of Living Holy*
other, is a thief.

;

is woiie than a fprrupf

huwfur, (To in the

<P«'tual.

JBacif;',

•

'

•

'

.'-

=

;

,

;

.

1 .

,

rtitnts'i

Shall

Say.

CoKTo'RTiOK.«./[fromffl»/«r/.]Twift;
wry motion ; flexure.

•

'

Temple.

•

Ward -draw €mtral}i with a (latefnian's
(kill ?

.Touch'd you the baltardy of Edward's childrrn ?—
J'l !. '.vlth fiis ctnlr^iB with lady Lucy,
.'traQ by deputy in France.
Sbakefpeare'i Richard \\i.
,

Ray on thtOeatkn.
3.

ed.]

The ilate

of being contrafted

contradlion.

a Latin prepofition, ufcd in CONTRACTIBl'l,lTY.

compofition, which fignifies againjl.

tra(fiiile.'\

CO'NTR ABAND. adj. [courabando, Ital.
contrary to proclamation.] Prohibited

,-

Dryden*
to repugn ; to op-

pofe.

No truth can contradiB any truth.

I

fi.'-

!

t,)

Hookit.

1 £-(»i/<-«</ifl your banes

If you >wU marry, make your loves to me.
,.
,,
S bat ffpcare't King Lear*
J.

CoNTRADi'cTER. n.f. [i'rom ccniradia.'\
One that contradifts ; one that oppofes j
an oppofe r.
If no coniriidiller appears herein, the fuit will
furvly be good.

tationt, he is lure to have a dozen eontradiffers,

Siuif's yientf of Ireland,

Contr ADi'cTioN. n.f. [from fffB/raaVV?.]
1

.

Di<!i.

by different degrees of beat, the air is kept in a
conilant raotioot

jirbuibnot.

;

controverfial affer-

That tongue,

/.

ed ; quality of fuffering contraftion.
By tnis continual contraflibiHiy and dilatability

Verbal oppofuion
tion.

[frOm CO/tPoflibility of being contrafttt.

Aybiffe^s Farergon*

If a gentleman is a little fincere in his reprefen-

A writing in which the terms of a bar-

CoNTR a'ctedness. n. f. [from contrail-

the line by which any figure is defined
or terminated.

;

.

gain are included.

CONTC/UR. n./. [French.] The outline

To be contrary to

—I

great and fudden ilictch or contcrti'yii.

Sinifi

ander.

2.

'

Or Japhet pocket, like his gmee, a will ?
Pope.
2. An aft whereby a man and woman are
betrothed to one another.

Difroption they would be In danger of, upon a

How can (he acquire thofe hundred graces and
motions, and airs, the contortioiti of every mutcular

'

is

which is knuwn

j

:

The agreement upon oicjrri, by mutual ccn/raff,
vvlth the confcnt to execute them by common
(VsT't'lhi <^'y make the rife of all civil guvtrn-

a. Xcoutradico,

not lawful to contradiB a point of hiftory
to all the world, as to make
Hannibal and Scipio cootemporarics with AlexIt

I

An adl whereby two parties are brought

<».

Latin.]
To oppofe verbally ; to aflert the contrary to what has been afferted.

1 .

ently accented on the lafl.]

together ; a bargain ; a compadl.

TUmJon's Summer.

Air feems to confift of fpires ccnlorled into fmall
fpheres, through the interftices of which the particles of light may freely pafs.
Chryne.

To CONTRADl'CT.

Co'ntract. tt.f. [from the verb. Anci]

to writhe.

illegal ; unlawful.

i

/

ShsktJpcareiUicbar'ii'iW.

'
;

The vertebral arteriea are varioofly nnuriid.'

Co'ntra.

.

YoBc mothei fives a witnefs to that vow.

.

and wond'roos length of courfe.

motion in the face ?

gerous and Inconvenient, where the contraSors are
L'EJirange.
not equals, j
,
.

Affianced ; contrafted. ;.. c , i
firft was he ircsirfli'? to lady T,n«j'j
,.

Tt CONTO'RT. rv. a. [contortus, Latiu.]

To twiil

All matches, fricndihips, and focicties, are dan-

.,•

To whofe dread cxpanfe,
Our floods are rills,

W contraft/or a quan-

Contra'ct. furt.adj. (from the verb.]

Ncuilaii'i Ofticli^-

Citt'tMuiiyt depth,

as,

:

tity of prowijuns.

th« dark intervals muft be diminjjhed, unti) ^he
neighbouring rings beconi* (ontinms, and, are

Wended.

To barg'ain

2.

Arbuthmt.

Joined together without the intervention
of any fpace.
.i
r
i'„
r
As the breadth of every ring it thus augnKnijd,
:

m/fW;

'

Conti'muou*.' j^j.' f«a^//r«Jni, Latin.]
,

'Vi^Datevei empties the yefTels, gives room to the
ffbres to f
jirbutbmt on Alimentt.

!

Zpyu

The foj<d,fiarta may be contracted by diflulviog
their fwir/irairy ; for a fibre, cut through, cor.trafls
"tfelf.

Arbuthnot on Alimenl$m

The aft of contrafting or fliortening.

1.

Vrjdcti't Failei.

She was a lady of the higheff condition in that

cubeiien ;

from contraa. ]

CoNTR a'ction. fi./. [contraaio, Lat.]

j

Sbakefpearc.

CoNTlNu'axY. «./. [cBntinuitas, Li^n,]

[

Having the power of contraftion, or of
fhortening itfelf.
the blood ftill forward.

\

Shakefpicri' i Much adc ahouf N'jfhirg.

adj.

The arteries are elaAick tubes, endued with a

Are now fo fure that nothing can dilTolve us.

:

Dia.

Contra'ctile.

The truth i% fljc and J, long lince contraBed,

would my horfc liad ihe fpced of your tongue,

and fo g-')od a coKfinuer.

3.

Donne.

conira^ile force, by which tliey fquceze and drive

Tq betroth

J.

The quality of fuffering con-

To him the an,;?! with comiaSi-d brow. Milton.

His head Ihould pay the forfeit.

ing the power of ped'evcrance.

.

iraaible.]

But firft cortraBed, that, if ever found.

CoNTi'mjER. »./. [from <««//>«(-.] Hav-

uninterrupted ;

Arbitthnot on Aliments.

CoNTR a'ctibleness. ». /. [from con-

To dravy the parts of any thing together.
On him thy grace did liUerty beftow

Nirril.

Connexion

one.

to fubfide at the expulfion of it.

To make a bargain.

4.

uniform, equal courle ai obedience, and
/iich as is not interrupted with^elcaft a^ of fm.

I.

Small air bladders, dilatable and eentrafiiile, are
capable to be inflated by the admiflion of air, and

traftion.

to make lefs ample.
;
In all things defuetude docs contraSi and, narrow
our faculties.
G'virnment of the 7<.ngue.

3.

By perieverancc, I do not underOand a ctmti-

•

Capable of contraftion.

;

To leffen

2.

muaily

-

Contra'ctible. adj. [from (a»traS.1

To Co'ntr ABAND. "J. a. [from the adjeftive.] To import goods prohibited.
To CONTRA'CT.-c;. a. [contraauj, Lit.]
1. To draw together into lefs compafs.

Without iaterruption ; without ceafing.

I

CON

1/ there happen to be found an irreverent expreffion, or a thought too wanton, in the cargo, let
them be flaved or forfeited, like contrabavd goods.
Drydtn's Fai/esi Preface.

Infplr'd with confradiBien, durft oppo(e

A thiiJ part of the godl.
2.

Milttn'sFaradifeLofi,

Oppofition.
Canfidvr him that cndurcth fuch contradiHion
of finacts againtt himfclf, left ye be wearied.
Jieircivl, xii. 3.

3.

Incon-

3.tI»co.ofiftency with iifelfj

•

incoogruUy

V

:..

,'

;

I

.1. .-,-u.-n:
l^u:.:.:..
Mihtii't Pit. J^ifiweajcnrfsj not of pow'r,
The Ipoftle'j idvice, to be anury and iin not,
,

'

Ot

was a emtroitlKtm irt their phitofopby.

CONTRADISTI'NGUISH.
[from centra and dijiinguijh .'\
guifti

\( truth be once perctrvca, we do thereby aUb
J«i*ciV!: whaUbci et i« falfc in ccrrrailiil'nn

t/^

'

'
4. COTifraricri', in^thou^ht or effeA.
AH icnrraJiOhm grow m thofe mindi, wh?ih
neither abfohRsly ciimb the rock ot virtue, -nor
SklHef.
fri-ely fink into chefea of vanity.
Laws human muft be made without ttntraiii^hon

-

'

'

;'

I
'

— in wl «t tUcy

•

.

3.. Opjpoihe to ivinconfilkiit with.
i Jfchereiiie »&.'» unmanly, ind. the expeSatMtn
immital, ot coyitr.iilclkui tatheatttifewtes of Qoii,
!

;

1

..

.'•

.

r^ f:

.:i'

;.

.17

.•v

ahiXi^tjailditiifriiAV-

'J'his opinion wa3,ftr'>K

Sotjitfi, u'tpiiwrthjicof^l&dxeeuei fpirit nf'Fiata.
-.
^^ :\i
•.v\-:i ~:«, /;.,•.
i
.fr^i.
2. Difpofition to cavil ; difpataj^ws tejn.:

.

„d?^

"-rM >

-

r.^*-.".'^-

..,

.

. T r

-«-,

fiffnreor craikDf (he fcuU, either in thefaw'^ psrt
where the bKiW was-inflidledj and then iPit called

ocln' the conmry part, ia which flafc it
H^Jtman,
obtains the ntlme of cpnrr^J/itrt,
firtUre;

Vofnitsi have thdc ute in this mHlady ) but the
ageanJ fci of the-jpotionrior otJ.er i;rgcoto» fo»*

•

.u.UamguMdljvkfHm'ii
S^tiWTItjkl'w^jdA'TION. >!./. [from Ci.,:i^aiMlrare.] A'li jHdicitioh'oiT;
whicK'forbids tliat to' Be dori'e u
X::i.

.

.,,..;.:..

|.firil..'

i

.

,

•

-

I eaUmnmtD give the ktvril: f;m,iir
diftcmper, and, jm*,^gaer,diet :. -!;i:
complicationsof the Jtft, or i
" 'An>i
ithe
tothefecinj.

,

is

/'
HaiTin.'J J^''-.'^' '
1. Qppofite toi'ftt^iort'iiftentiWA:^'

1

1

.The <ch«#«>f iKoft g<n^e*M» airet.'fiBoft -ab.
furd, and conirjJinory to common fenfe.
,,
.-,;;
yiJUifiii'l FifcboltHr.

Co K T

-

-j

•

I

«L

J

i

•

* i«'cT<fri<-ii«.--»r/'
which oppofes another in

'

"

A ^opofition
all its

terms ;

To aferiksunto him a power of aleftion, not

tp make tlic
fame thing to be determined to 01^, and to be not
.t)>at

^d'rVt R A'R'i.NtSS.

•^ON T R a'r lou s

inditferent^,

ii

detcrmijied to one, whicli arc ^ortraJifloriei,
Brinnbjlti An^cr tp HM(s.

CoKTRADii^i'iJCTioN. tt. /. [hUta'ciriti'aJijiinguiji.] Diftinai'on by oppofite
qualities.
We muft trace the f»«l to ih* w»y» of '"M'leAuai aitiwti, wlicicby w «iy come to tlie dif-

ceniraryf^

.^truiii

Di3.

a.ij. [from ccitrmy.l <[Jp-X

li

.

French.]

:'-.

:

,

:

..-

,r/«i(i.]

I

....

depolitions of witneflfes (jiemfelves

Co'ntr ARi Ks. »./. [from contrary.']

In

logkk, prapofuions which dcllroy each
other, biu of which the falfehood of one

•»!;//&.]

-^^lyirie, nt vim ii arra.
Irivitf-y.^i, I
J
'Tlicre fiin never be boUi'irue together, but th^y
'

Watii'i Lcgkk.

CpNT«Aiti'EtT. «./ [frOBI cmrariet^Si

!

in greater quantity

.

r
'

I

i

"-

ii-

'

ai'.e

Diivici on Ir.lund.

laws.

,The fijn may fet and rife ;
•''But we, csntrjr'r.oi^e.

Sleep, after ou'r ifiort light,
One evcrtailing night.

"

*

'

,.rU
,Ra!rigb':HiJI}iyc/tbcWl>r^'
.r

^._

CCNTRARY. adj. [coitlrarius, Latin.)
I. (Oppofite,;

eoturadiftpry ;

not fimpl/

dift'ereiit, or not ali!c,e, but repugnant, (o

that one dellroys or obftrutts the other.
Perhaps fome tiling, ffpugn«at ti her kind.

By ftciip
But

Which i

tile

C)ul may kill

cntr^tj to the mind.
_..t.,iUniries ia conoiW Aiil f-

'•

Bevies,

flill

6Vji.

"

matter of fSth is conftaot; the matter,
fM(/r<ir>if^, of a<H«ns daily changeable,
f/coktr.
This reqoeft vf as never before made by any other
lords; but, tcnfi.rriTOf/'f, they were humble fuitors
to have the benefit »ai ptoteAion of the Jingliili.

flaking a ron-'rarM/y the place of my memory,
falrnefs,

^buthnu on yiitmenii.

'J

Oppofltely*i!./j

UkUt.

looking on .Moj'fa, bat thinking on l^auieia.

finjillcr

Ba:on'i Natural BJIirf.

F.vcry thing that afts upon the fluids, mull, at.
the fame time, hSi uypn the follds, and ccnirarkBi/t.

.

Pamda's

move urine, and in

(lopl.
^

'

contiary rcfpefls, have conttai? inclinations, and

and

\^ceatrary

Divers medicines in greater quantity move flool,
and fo, contrarkvifr, fome

'

beheld

adv.

'

aiiS in fAalfei' lirinej

Latm;]
I. Repugnance; oppofition.
The will abo\jt one and the feuve thing may, in

.Sbihijpiart't Hittry^.

...i

;

.n (pjjnty, they are con-

may be both fflCc.

.

f Converfely.

does nofeft''^'-"^ -"iC triith of the other.
>ilf two#ni.

"i.

ontra'riwise.

J2.

befog falle, *ario«»r«»f*'r»i«r,:fi»8to, 'oconclud^jfiffc'lPar'Tgon.
.
ent,
n r

,

Ttrone confent',' may work r(?»!/riiTi*j^J^.

'

Cofl-

,

<iife.;.'[fTrW' ctahrn-

Oppofheiy ;' contrarily.
Many things, having lull reference

'

I

Iriconfifteirt ;

tradifSory; 3 t|tr{n <?f iavy-

i

DioVidencettlrooghhTsaiortcotWl??

pj'N'TitA'.RrtJ'^sKV.

CoNTR a'riant'. iidj. [ccntrnrlant, from

that^iffithout (»irriM'/<y(-

err:." .;';-:>',

1\

[from icutra

». fi

.

or at leaftifs natviVsl aptncfs te oppofc, ;,v ,,.^-.^1
and beftvof end* j fo thai it is not fo properly an
fftirtis.
irregularity as a uatrarcguiar'ity.

in lior foulncfs

J^f

repn^nam'theoiw to the other.

<'r

i

,

very

'I-

Coji.tr^rie.^y ; oppoiition.

A plating ovef-agafnft?''"

It is not only it's riot prbiSio'ti;ig, but

The

of
cUt

^

th*fO 4o what is evih

:..;..

''\J\ [frpni ('"'>

fOK/r-anVr,

Kay m tht Crtalint.
"
^'ins.
AiU»

.

'

Jt is conimonVitU princes to will irtrttrnJu'lvie! ;
fof it is tfae folccifm of po^cr to thiiJe to com
roiin4 the co^ and yet not to eridure the means.
Ba:cn,

to chu^p ^n or

,

;

contrariety; inconfiftency.

.

:;^A'?7'^-'-

,

ft ^ o, ij V a'r i.t*"',
/r«'and r<f;f/i»;*)'.]'',G(J>ttrariety

:

'

'

.

2. tTnl(wWc)-That whick is in the fuUefl
oppofitton', where both the te»m» of one
'propolltion are pppofite to thofe of an-

'
•

-

p.e»aion i. 'a rcultency/aJ)iS.
.: h',
v

Co N.T R A

'"

ThVJcWs hold, that in cafe two r^tSWes IhtuU
happen to contradift ontf »noth<'r, they were yet
bound toljeUeve the rMfadiacAf -aflertions of both.
Soari's ^ermimu

other.

:

gainll preifure. .u::

and^£^4'(!«'.]

different Wa
'Thoi/ghWln

t.SiAj th>!rti fo •C'rr /!•

an diat-waj/.(>i''lt aBpij^t

the npi,l).Wf^<l?f ^ (^fyr;

Co N T R A ptwji'T'roif
''

/-

i'ocmed.
;;.

.

'''''!•"'

*

action, asii all' tliis r<»«riiT/^ to the laws cf fptci'
fick gravity, iiit whatever -polhuq the body be

I

!

Infor

CoNTRADi'«;Toit.Y. ^Jj; [coniroIUJliHui

'

''

'./.[mifKct/i'/'f, r'rtnch. J

vittnrs, lEiit.-J)

•

'

Many of th m confpire to one and the ftme

j

'pofitc;

-..- tiLi.f^SV"' Co N T R A N i't E K c Y n. /..{(tOm (cutiti and

:

ftj^a manner contrary.

;

'

OKTR

CJP«t1tj\ttl'cTORtWB»» *•/• [from re».
i^yiaory^ Oppofitiqn in the higheft

.

«'-"-

'

•

''

(fcoKt'RA'«itY. Ad-v, [from rtwrrar)-.]

(

I,'

,

fioiucij' to otner>,
r-Shchevkive dikouited l»e)**,hov»fei4i«r/ej5f,
eojitrjUly, <»t cmtradiH ri/y ici'iy^te^ theaifelvet,
thatm iiAta\iUvtiiom ttcnce i.»kt leipijoably
-

wt at

inainffope of a dif«afe points

.

•

,

,

dflductd.

'
ftruftive of its oppofite.
He wilt he-hcre, and yet he is not here
;«
How can tliefe «»fr«r;rti« agree ?
^'
•;• '
Khaiefleare't Henry W,,_

I

1

,

Sourb.

^

'

Inconfiftency ; qaality Or pofiticn d^--^

i.

rrowi^jca/ifl^tfj'abptoms, naarftiK-okferileiiii

1

•

I

when great, do ufually product i

CiiT.ii.fions,

''

Thefe is notliins oiDre eoinioon than tmtraritty
of opinians ; nothing more obvious (lun that 01^
man wholly dilbelieves what another only doubts
of, and * thitd ftedfallly believes and drmly ad.
Lucht
heres to.

LocU.

.

,

Cafl/i''-

L'-Iiiconiillency ;'cott*ai4?iH;'t*1tftJfC

1

apd-.^yfeft i-at.},.', JP
peculiar or incidental fymptom or me,
thodef cure, solitary Jto jvhacthe gone-.
ral tenour of the malady rwgiiresi

j C«Vjfr.
»l»)r4biSV>. their climates. ,; | ^J
2. Inclined to contradift ;, given to caifij,;

euahopes-wtfoa^t never ta^«ci>'SA

V

;

forrtrarirtj.

«.

men altered

.

bm

;

{^"t^ra
p CONTRAITvDICAT£.,5?,
pqRt.piit fopie

-.iraiiifiiau:,
,

.

I.

I

.

,

,

-rdkhecohJltOnpffoJid,
parrs, and a poweV cf
'

Mure.]-

[ftcaa foatra-

-'

-

I

Z-arV*
impuifc.
"plcX ideas of foi/l an<J body,
.

tVmur^
fome cmtrer:fty of we:itbcr at fea,
Their rcli jion had more than negative ctatraritiy
Defoy »f P'ifij,
to virtue.
There i» a eentrar'itty between thofe things that
coilfcience inclines to, anj tliofe that entertair^ the
Somk.
fcnfes.
_
Tliefe twd interell?, if is to be feared, cannot
be divided ; but they will aHb prove oppofite, and,
diverfity, quickly rifc inio a
not rcftins; in a

Co.vTKAFi'ssuiiis. */. [from r»«*rf« ahd

'The tairv of decency, of" gov«rtim«nt, of jufti<e
on

a.

,

cc.
as

j

itrdt', aie fo ditterfnt in

,

ar
.

j.T'Filledwithcontradiaions; inconfiiteht.

acshi anatlicr, lb pitty-civ
that o»6 nKiuld think th-

v.

'

I

Huokir^

_,.!.

'

'

'

CO.,

CoNTRABi'ff isius. adj.
','
did.}

proportion in ctntrarieij unto thol^
lh:itr.
It principally failed by late fetting out, and ly

rieti, as of fi:

evils which are Vo be cuied.

Todirttfi-

not fimply by differential but by

Grrtv'i Cofmoto^ja*

unm any poricive law iri fcripture. •

,

oppofite qualities.
The primary iJ-'as we have peculiar tp body, a<.

it.

muff not eniicivoar 10 much to bring it to a ftate of (imple csnttaftorc a difeafed, body unto' health,

imt other, powei-s.

!u nr.irail'p'"'lUpa to thofe of jirrfumption, ia, a
SQulh.
tniA not !0 be qiicftloncd.

To

'

Soulb't StnKni.

5,

I

Clanvi/li'i $ctfjii'
Th*f there are fuch things a's fins of tnflrmity,

That were

>

He which will perfeAly recover t lick, tai rt*

rf "hat It meant by 'm»sInJtlon,

in fwirr*;

in words'or thoaghts.

C

CO N

CON

CON

!.

Inconfiifcnx ; difagfe^io£.
'

He

CON

CON
,H» that belie»et it, and yet lives ur.trjry to it,

the gap, and to employ or divert thcfe humours,
they muft of necelh-.y be fpent in contramitiior.s to
S-tvifithe lawb of the land.

knovfs that he hath no reafon for what he does.

The vafiouj and cmtrary choices th«t men make

Contraye'rva. n. /.

in the world, do not argue that they do not a!:
purfue good j but that the fame thing is not good
Lockt.
to every man alikp.

the waves j for the wind was co»rrflrv.

Co'ntrary. »./

MiUlb. xiv. 24.
[from the adjeftive.]

Sbahff. King Lear.
Than I and fuch a knave.
He fuilg

A propolition contrary to fome other;

To CONTRI'BUTE. -v. a. [contriiuo, La-

a fid contrary to the allegation.

tin.]

On theCoKT*.\KY. In oppofition

;

on

Sbair/feare's HtttryVUl,
If jurtite .lood on the fide of the fingic perfun,
it ought to g'.vc good mrn pieafure to fee that ligh:
ihoiild t.ilc; phc- ; bar when, on ihi eonirary, the

Of diverfe witjielfes.

1.

Contra RV. To a contrary
purpofe ; to an oppofite intent.
They did ic, not for want of inJlru^ion to the

4. 7» /*?

Fr.]

fubfiHence for tlicir body, but much m&refpirituai
Di^oy.
ccniribul'ioni ios their mind.
Beggars are now maintained by voluntary contnBills
Mortality.
Graunt's
butsoss,
of

to thwart ; to contradift.

;

When I cam; to court, I was advifcd not to conLatimer.

trary the Icing.

Finding

in

him the

force

of it, he wo'ild no

further ontrary it, but employ

all

his fervlce

me^cine it.

3.

to

Siilney.

CaNTRAST. «./. [contrafie, Fr.] Op-

place in oppolitiow, fo that one
figure ihews another to advantage.
2. To (hew another figure to advantage by
\ti colour or fituaiion.

CojjTR avalla'tion. tl. /. [from contra
and vaUo, Lat.] The fortification thrown
op by the belicgers, round a city, to
hinder the fallies of the garrifon.
"When the late cz.ir of Mufcuvy fiill acquainted
he p rail! ft

hiinf:!f with niath':madcal leainiug,

aM the rules of circurnv^llition and eantrava/Ltin
tVaiii'i L-j/Jc,
at tic fiege of a town in Livonia.'

ToCONTRAVE'NE. v. a. [contra and
;

to obilrucl ; to

baffle.

Co r R A V e'n E R n.f, [from contravene. ]
Me who oppoles another.
N-

.

Co.<T R avs'ni lo.v. n.j. [French.] Oppolltion.

Vol. f.

to

powder.
Some of thofe coloured powders, which painter*
ufe, may have their colours a little changed, by
being very claboiately and finely ground ; where I
ftc not what can be juftly pretended for thofe
changes, befides the breaking of their parts into
2.

Nituicns Ofticis.

in iheftrift
Penitence ; forrow for fin
fenfe, the forrow which arifes from the
:

defire to pleafe God ; diilinguirtied from

promoting any purpofe in concurrence
with otiier motives.

attrition, or

imperfeft repentance produced by dread of hell.
What is lorrow and cor.iriiion for fin ? A being

grieved with l\\i confcience of lin, not only that
we have tliercby incurred fuch danger, but alfo
that we have lo unkindly grieved and piovokcd fn

'

One that bears a
,

Di^,

That which has the power or quality of

''

liryden.

feveral pofitioni.

contrite.}

Contrition ; repentance.

Decay f Piny
fame end.
Contr i'butor. n.f. [from contribute.]

thai is, with their faces and bodies ail rtirnc^l

[from

Contri'tion. n./ [from contrite.']
1. The aft of grinding, or rubbing

'

the lanieway ; but muil »«r«/?each other by their

Rogens.

Contri'teness. n.f.

A; thr value of the pr-vmifes renders them moft
proper intcntives to virtue, fo the manner of pr?pofing we Iha'l find alfo highly coniributive to the

The figures of the groups muft not be all on a

To oppofe

through I'aith in Chrift, our repentance is entitled
to falvation.

Contri'butive. ae/J. [from contribute.]

To

venii, Lat.]

Mi/lm.

The contrite finner is reftored to pardon, and,

Ufs parts by that contrition.

Sbatefpeare*s yuliusCafar.

To Co.ntha'si. -u. a. [from the noun.]

le,

Of forrow unfeign'd, and humiliation meek.

For they have grudg'd us contribution,

effeft of another.

li

Wat'ring the.ground, and with our fighs the air
Frequenting, fentfrom hearts crnfrite, in fign

That which is paid for the fupport of
an army lying in a country.
The people 'twi«t I'hilippi and this ground
Do Hani but in a forc'd afi'eflion

which one contributes to the viiibilityor

1.

Stakeffeare's Henry V,

;

pofition and difllmilitude of figures, by

Richard's h;dy have interred now;

With tears

The aft of promoting fome defign in

certain centribuiion for the poor faints. Rom. zv. 26.
Parents owe their childnrii not only material

Stillingjieel.

[corttraritr,

1

And on it have bciVowed more contrite tears.
Than I'lOm it ifl'ucd forced drops of blood.

of

conjunftion with other perfons.
2. That which is given by feveral hands
for fome common purpole.
It hath pleafcd them of Macedonia to make a

Siuift.

ctntrari.

vAoiks

harafled with the

In the books
of divines, contrite is forrowful for fin,
from the lovi; of God and defire of
pleafmg him ; and attrile is forrowful
for fin, from the fear of punifhment.

?Qpi*s £JJ'ay on Hunter.

ovciborn by

is

to

;

fenfe of guilt ; penitent.

CoNTE ibu'tiOK. n./. [from contribute.^

private intereft, what giod man but moft lament ?

To oppoie

Worn with forrow

"Whatever praties may
judgment, there is not even a (ingle beauty in them
to which the invention mull not catiiiutc.
be given

Urg'd on cxamirations, proofs, confefllons.

•

Bruil'ed ;

.

The king's ^tornejr, or. the ciir,trjty,

much worn.

1.

2.

to

To Co N T R i'b tJ T E v. II. To bear a part
to have a (hare in any aft or effed.

He pleaded ftill not guilty ;

To Co^NTRARy. -v. a.

;

CONTRI'TE. adj. [eor.tritus, Latin.]

Aidijon on Italy.

tinilhed.

the other fiie.

nation

and nidorcus fmells, fifch as were <it
were thought to intoxicate the bialni
aod to difpofe men to devotion; which they may
do by a kind of fadnefs and coittri/l-ation of the
'fpirits, and partly alfo by heating and exalting
Bacon's Natural H:Jl»y.
them
Incep.fe

facrifices,

jidJ-pii on the fyhr.
of tlie allies.
His mafter contributed a great fum of money
to t'-.e Jcfuitj church, which it not yet quite

i^ocke.

contrary.

To give to fome common ftock

advance towards fome common defign.
England contributes much more than any other

1 he inibnces brought by our author are but
iknder proofs of a right to civil power and domi
nJOD in the firll-born, and do rather flisw ihc

;

heart ; fadnefs ; forrowfulnefs ; gloomincfs ; grief; moan ; mournfulnefs ; trouble ; difcoiuent ; melancholy. Not ufed,

Paying tribute to the fame fo-

and arithmeiick ; yea, the whole mathematicks
muft be ccntritutoty, and to them all nature pays
GhrvilU'! S:,fjh.
a Qjbfldy.

commonweil of a whole

;

Difl.

As bodies are, whofe health is often drawn
Southerns Oreomh.
From ranlieft poifons.

the ftate of
heavinefs of

The aft of making fad;
lorrow
being made fad

vereign.
Thus we arc engaged in the objefts of geometry

Ccwfey^l Davitfris.

3.

CoNTRiST

.

butary. '\

Honour (honld be concern'd in honour's caulc
That is not to be cur'd by ccrtrarirt.

2.

:

Co N T R i'b u T A R Y adj. [from ccn and tri-

Why entrants feed thunder in the cloud.

.

A touching or handling.

tin.]

;

Not ufed.
to make mel.ancholy.
Ciackncls and darkneis are but privatives, and
therefore have little or no adivity fomewhat they
do ccvlrifate, hut very little. Bacon's Nat. Uiflcry.
a'tion. n.f. [from contri^ate.]

CoktrBCTa'tion. n.f. [contre^atio, La-

^o contraries hold more antipathy.

CONTRI'STATE. «;. a. [contrip,
To fadden to make forrowful;

Latin.]

M'l^"-.

mick.

A thing of oppofite qualities.

1.

to fome common flock.

To

[contra, againit,

and yerva, a. naine by which the Spaniards call black hellebore ; and, perhaps, fometimes poifon in general.] A
fpeciesof birthwort growing in Jamaica,
where it is much ufed as an alexiphar-

Adverfe ; in an oppofite direflion.
The (hip was in the midft of the iea, tolfcd with

3.

C O N
fiftance to fome ioint defign, or increafc

If ChrHllanity did not lend its name to ftand in

defigti ;

part in

Hiimmoitd': Praflica! Catechifm.
good a'God.
Fruits of more pleafing favour, from thy feed
Sown with contrition in his hcait, than thofe
Which, his own hand manuring, all the trees
Of Paradifc could have pioduc'd. Mitt. Par. LoJI.
Your faftijig, contrition, and mortification, when
the church and ftate appoints, and that efpecially
in times of greater riot and luxury.

fome common

one that help, forward, or ex-

erts his endeavours to fome end, in con-

juiiftion with others.
1 pro.nis'd we would be cemtriluforSf
And bear his charge of wcjoing, whatfoe'er. Shalt.
grand C(.nirit>uijr 10 our dilleutions is pjlhori.
Veeay of Piety.

A

Spratt's Sermons.

My future days fhali be one whole contrition

A chapel will

Art thou a true lover of thy cnuntiy ? zealous
for its/eligiou! and ci\il libertie< ? and a rhearfiil
c'jttrihul^r to all thnlit public expenccs which have
been thought nccellary to fecure them < Aticrbury.
The whole people were witneli'es to the building
of tlie ark and tabernacle j they were all contributors
to it.

1

j

build with large endommenc.

Where every day an hundred atjcd men
Shall all bold up their wither'd hands to heav'n.

DryJen*

CoNTB I'vABi.n.

[from contrive.] Poffibie to be planned by the mind ; poffible to be invented and adjufled.
It will hence appear how a perpetual motion

Forbe!.

Contri'butory. adj. [from contribute ]
Promoting the fame end ; bringing a(-

fl(^'.

lOay fecra caiily contrivable.
J

3

F

lyUkiitl'l Dadalus.

Com-

CON

CON

Sptak, what Phoebus has infpir'd thy foul
For comait)n good, znd fpcak without control.

Wild OHfretrofy then, which long hid flept,

CON
ConTiit'vAiiCE. »./. [from eoHtrivi.'^
1.

-

The aft of contriving; excogitation;
the thing contrived.
Tkere is no work itnpoffible to thcfe emtriI'lif.iu, but tliere mis be as much i€ltd by thU art
•s can be fancied by imagination.

H^Vkhi'i AUtbcmaticjl Magk.
laftniAed, you'll «p1ore
TiWiM aulr'nitnic, asd a God adore.
B'stkmtre^l CrfdticH.

Scheme ; plan ; difpofition of parts or

£.

caufes.

Uur bodies arc mad; according to the moft curious artifice, and orderly ccnirivance.
Glamiille't Sciffs.

A conceit

3.

Power ;

3.

There might be a feint, a conirivuncc in the
matter, to draw him into fame fecrct ambulh.
jiticrhry.

Ta CONTRI'VE. -J. a. [controuver, Fr.]

To plan out

;

to excogitate.

One that flept In the cantiivUg luft, and waked
to do it.
Siakfjfiarc'i King LiJr.

What more Ukdy to coniri-at this admirable
fame of the univcrte than iniinite wiidom i
TilUtfon.

Our poft has always fome beautiful defign,
vhich he 5rfl riUbliihet, and then coturivet the
means which will naturally conduct him to Iris end.
VryJen.

Z.

To wear away.

Out of ufe,
fuch as mortal men cDntrive,
Fairy S^un.
Pleafe ye, we may untrivc this afternoon.
And quaff caroufes to our miHrcfs' hcaltli. Sbtil.

to plan ; to fcherae ; to com plot.
Is it enough
That nufting habits, and a tnrrow'd name.
Prior.
Contrive to hide my plenitude of fhame ?

R.

I'v £ K .

jnventer ;

[ from

n. /.

co>itri've.'\

Shaktjfeare'i Titut ^ndronicus.
Eccl. v. 3.
?

the miftrefs of your charms.

£petts, who the fraud's antri-vcr was.

Siuift^s GtJliver's Travels.

A regifter or account kept by another

that has the power of governing or reItrairiing ; a fuperintendent.
He does not calm his contumelious fpirit.

our experiments.

Controve'rtist.

that all thsfc conliderations (hall be
able to flrike no terrour into liis mind, lay no re-

upon his lufts, no control M^n his appetites,
Iw ii ccruinly Cou fuoog for the means of grac;.
Sntb'i Stniini.

Brown's Vulgar £rrors.

[from contrcDifputant ; a man verfed or en«
gaged in literary wars or difputations.
w. /.

Who can think himfelf fj coniiderahle as not

Dryd.

mighty man of dcmonftration, this
prince o( eoniro-veriijis, this great lord and poiiiiiror
to dj-cad this

Dcign'd to be man, and liv'd in low eltate.

CoNTRo'LLERSHip.w.y^ [from Controller,]

'I'he power or aft

we cannot without arrogancy

VI.

Sbakefpcare^s Henry

of firft principles ?

Tilktfon.

Contuma'cious. adj. \^cont untax, halia,]
OblUnate ; perverfe ; ftubborn ; inflexible.

of fuperintending or

He is in lavf faid to be a contumacious perlbn,

reftraining.

who, on his appearance afterwards, departs tho

The ftate of being reftrained ; reftraint.

court without leave.
yl/!iffe's I'arerron.
There is another very efficacious method for tubduing the moft obftinate ccntumacious fmner, and
bringing him into ttie obedience of the faith of
Ohrift.
Hammond's Fundamentals,

Vavies on Ireland.

Oppofition; confutation.
Were it rcal'on that we fliould fuft'er the fame
to pafs without nntrolmint,

in that current mean-

Contuma'ciouslv. adv, [[rom contumaObrtinatcly; ftubbornly ; inflexibly ; perverfely.

cious,]

Hooker.

ing, whereby every whf.re it prevailcth.

4. Refiftance ; hoftility.
Here have we war for war, and blood for blood,
Shukejp. King "John.
Coiitrolmcnf for controlment.

CoNTU M a'ciousness. It./, [ftom Contumacious.]

Relating to difputes ; difputatious.
happens in ccntrovcijial difcourfes" as it docs
in the all'aulting of towns, where, if the ground
be. but firm whereon the batteries are erefted, there
is no farther ciiqulry whom it belongs to, fj it
affords but a fit rife for the prefent purpofc. Locke.

ObiHnacy ; pcrverfenefs ;

flexibility ;

in-

ftubbornnefs.

fy.]

From the dcfcription I have given of it, a judg-

It

ment may be given of the difticultj and contuma-

\

liii confcience,

truths,

intreat a credulity, or implore any farther atTcnt
than the probability of our rcafons and verity of

njert.]

The great nntroUer of our fate

the other.

ftrrtint

trovertiile

Nor ceafc to be an arrogant controller.

each may be examined by

Let parti >< fpirits flill aloud complain,
Think themlclves injur'd that they cannot tcign ;
And own no liberty, but where they may,
V/itUout mMrcl, upon their fellows prey.
WalUr.
He fhall feel a force upon himfelf from within,
and from the control of hit own principles, to engage
jiim to do worthily.
South,
If the fiuncr fhall win fo complete a viftory over

Difputable;

its

Controve'rsi AL. adj. [from cotttro'ver-

French.]

Check ; reftraint.

the drunkenncfs of the mind, and
prefent workings, not contnllahk
South,

is

Contro'ller. n,/, [from control.] One

3.

Hooker.

[from controthat may be the

adj.

caufe of controverfy.
Difcourfing on matters dubious, and many cm.

without controtment.
Siii/t.

CONTRO'L. n.f. {controh, that is, coittre

Sp

cifion (hall determine.

Controve'rtible.

They made war and peace with one another,

Scenes of blood and dcfolatiun, I had painted
common eft'cfts of thofe dcftruftive machines; wheieof, hefaid, fome evil genius, enemy
to mankind, mull have been the firit contriver.

officer, that

do whatfocver the fenunce of judicial and final dc-

i/ert.]

by rcafon.

as the

1.

Perfuafion ought to be fully fettled in men's
hearts, that, in litigations and controverfed caafej
of fuch quality, the will of God is to have them to

Subjeft to control ; liibjeft to command
Paflion

2.

None loves his king and country better.
Yet none was ever lefs their debtor.

role,

control.

P hihhfticat Principles,

Hooker kems to ufe the word contm'verfe, if it be not an erratum.

fubjcft to be over-ruled.
therefore, in

Denham.

Plain loyalty, not built on hope,
J leave to your contriver. Pope :

If any perfon (hall think (it to controvert them,
he may do it very fafcly for me.

To

1 .

[contro-veno,

Lat.] To debate ; to ventilate in oppofite books ; to difpute any thing in writ-

Cbeyne's

trolled all the evidence of his ad'verjary.
As for the time while he was in the Tower,
and the manner of his brother's death, and his own
efcape, ftie knew thy were things that a very few
Bacon'i Henry VII.
could control.

Shai. Macbeth.

an un-

Shakefpeare'i Juliui Ctfar,

To CO'NTROVERT. -v. a.

O, dearelV Andrew, fays the humbU droll.

[from

is

And ilemming it with hearts of contrcverjy.

Henceforth may I obey, and thou control. Prior,
overpower ; to confute : as, he con.3 .

ttdj,

This

ing.

Clad like a country fwain he pip'd and fung,
And playing drove his jolly troop along. Dryien.

Contro'llable.

enmity.

The torrent roar'd, and we did buffet It
With lufty linews j throwing it afide.

Drydin's Aurengxche,

With this be did a herd of goats control.
Which by tlic way he met, and flily dole ;

The office of a controller.
Contro'lment. n.f. [from control.]

fchemer.
1,

my virtue llruggling in my foul

4. Oppofition;
ufual fenfe.

But ftronger paifion does its pow'r control.

An

one that plans a defign ; a

The clofe contriver of all harms.
Wis never cnll'd to bear my part.

Jer. XIV. jr.

Who (hall control me for my works

Dia.

Invention.

Go N T

The Lord hath a coiitrcverjy with the nations.

Authority to convent, to toxtrol, to punifli, as
far as with excommutiication, whomfoever they
Hooter.
think worthy.
Give me a ftaff of honour for mine age

I feel

A quarrel.

3.

reckoning.
2. To govern ; to reftrain ; to fubjeft.

CoNTRi'vEMENT. ». /. [from contri've.\
,

them, then they fhall juftify the righteous and condemn the wicked.
Deuteronomy, XXY. I,

To Contro'l. "u. a. [from the noun.]
1. To keep under check by a counter

I'iirce ages,

To CoNTRi'vE. 1;. ti. To form or defign;

If there be a coniroverjy between men, and they
come unto juflgmcnr, that the judges may judge

Shaktjpeare,

Drydcn.

A fuit in law.

2.

Are their males' fubjefts, and at their controh,

Have 1 not niaiiag*d my contrivance well.
To try your love^ and make you doubt of mine ?

I.

authority ; fuperintendence.

The beads, the filhes, and the winged fowls,

But not a fccpcre to ctnirst the world.

a plot ; an artifice.

;

Into the prefs from ruin'd cloifters leapt. Denhatn.
This left no room for controvert about the titl#,
nor for encroachment on the right of others. Locltct

Ihjilen'i Homer,

Co'ntroversy. 11,/. [confrover/ia, Lat.]
1.

Difputc; debate; agitation of contrary
opinions
a dii'pute is commonly oral,
and a controver/y in writing.
How Cometh it to pafs that we are fo rent with
:

mutual contentions, and that the church

is

fo

much troubled ? If men had been willing to learn,
all

cioujntjs of cure.

IViJeman.

CO'NTUMACY. n.f. [from conttMacia,
1.

Latin.]
Obftinacy; pcrverfenefs; ftubbornnefs;
inflexibility.

Such aSs

Of contumacy will provoke the hlgheftTo make death in us live. Milion't Paradife LtJI.
2. [In law.] A wilful contempt and difobedience to any lawful fummons or ju-

Hooker,
Without ccnirovirjy great is th: myflcry of god-

dicial order.
Ayhjfl's Parergon.
Thcfe certificates do only, in the generality,
mention the party's contumacies and difobedience.

Timothy,

jiyliffcs Partrgon.

thcfe comrovrrjiei

might have died the very day

they were firft brought forth.
liocfs.

I

CONXU-

C ON

C O N

Coktumb'liovs. adj. [contumtlie/us, La-

The bonei, in (harp colds, wm btiftfc

tin.]
1.

Cotiv.Mc'scENCE. lit./, [from

VI.

Latin.]

1 .

employing their wit; for they ufc

Recovering ;

nominious.

A% It is in the hijheft degree Injurious t« them,
(o it is coniamtir.us to hire.
Decjy
Piery.

1.

ate. ciiiuumtlkujly

Coktume'liousnkss. «./ [{rom. contu-

lature.

Rudenefs ; reproach.

1 .

contemptuoulnefs; bitternefs

_

CoNVE'.MENTLv.art'i/. [from coiKvenieat.]
1. Commodioufly ; without difficulty.
I this morning know
Where ws Ihall find him moft conveniently-..
Shakefpeare's Hamlet,

^

2.

if,,ke.

If the helm of chief government be in the

No man was better pleafed with thf comenhg of
Kkg Cbarhs.

hands

valcnt to thofe in a wind-millt

All the fiaious and fthifmatical people would
frequently, as well in the night as the day, (in-vinc

themfclves by the found of a bell.

Clarendon.

;

With all his convent, honourably receiv'd him.

Pope''} Stal'ws.

tumely^

To fummon judicially.

2.

.

2.

By the papal canon law, clerks, in criminal and

Shttiejfearc't Hamht.

civil caufes,

with fome

rUkfov.

1.

,
tternal nniumily
attend that guilty title, which
claims exemption from thought, and
arrogates to
Its wearers the premgative of brutes.

~

^^%.rr^.-„

rr-

7i CONTLTSE. -v. a.

,

°*"-'
2.

B.ian.

Commodioufnefs ; eafe ; freedom from
A;man putting all his pleafurej intoone, is like

"'•crs..

The aft of beating or bruiflng.
2. The ftate of being beaten or bruifcd.
acquiring by

«««>«•= multitude

.

t« p.^wdcr.
ir.to

/?,,/,
r 1
a compreflion of the fibres,
diftinguilhed from a wound.
Tliat winter lion, who In raj(e forgets
>iged amufmi, and all bruife cf time.

3.

A brmle

3.

a

;

Sbahffwi'i Utiirj VI,

,

An

ufed in an ill fcnfe, including herefy or.

CiWj-.iV, ,;.,,.

fchifni.
It behovcth, that the place where God (hall
be
fcrvcd by the vvholc church be a publick place,
for
the avirding of privy conveniieles, which,
covered
with pretence of religion, may ferve unto dangerous praaices.
Hooker.

there is another convinUnce in this method,
during your waiting.
ti the ro-Amjn.

Caufeofeafe; accommodation.
It It have nor fuch a convcmcnct,
voyages mud be
very uncomfortable.
mtkinsU MMhtm. Magkh.

Who, (arfrnm ftecplcs and their facrcd fiuiici.
In fields their fullen conventicles found.
Dryder,
A fort of men, who are content to be ftiled of
the church of England, who perhaps attend it»
fen-ice in the morning, and go with tfldir wives

A man alreis his mind as the work proceed;,

and will have this or th.it conTtniencc more,
of
which he had not thought when he began.
Drsdrn'i Fjtki, Preface.

There wm a fair of fp':4U<Kii;

a pvekct ifct-

a meeting.
;
They arc commanded to abilain from all csnuentiehs of men whatfoever
even, out of the
j

to

Stmft's DirccJiofi

of minute

from a diaphanous, degenerates

white body,

.

'.

An affembly

church, to have nothing tvj do with publick bufi"''«•
.e^yf.ffeS Parergon.
2.
affembly for worfhip.
Generally

Smth^t Sermans.
Every maq m.oll want fimifthing for
the conveof his 1.1c, for which he mull be oblircd

1.

Take a piece of glif,, ..nd reduce it

•

greater.

niencj,

_

1 .

a tra«BllM-b putting all i,is goods into
one jewel
the value IS the fame, and the ic»^Y»;.«r

Bacon's Henry VII.

tin.]

difficulties.

CONTU siON, ». f [froin conlujio.]

It

^onUs.

Conve'nticle. n.f. [cotivetiticulutn, La-

licokic.

.

fo that they require to be digcftcd before
tiie-* can
unite.
Mr,'

furfaces,

By all probation will make up full clear.
Whenever he 's convened. Sl^ak. Mcaf. for
Meaf.
They fent forth their precepts to attach men,
and convent them before thcmfelves at
private

Pc-kw:

^.

Inthings not commanded of God, yet lawful,
becaufe permitted, the queliion i-, wh.it
light Hall
rtiew us the conwmncy which one
hath al.ove an-

;

To bruife the fle(h without a breach of
the continuity.
The ligature «n/a/« the. lip«. in cutting thrni,

2.

fitted

to the circuml>anccT, .md the
circumiljnccs to it,
that thereby it becomes a tiling convenient.

Addifon'% Guard'iav.

much like the other.

4

To Conve'wt. v. a. [co/fvoiio, Latin.]
To call before a judge or judicature.
He with his oath

propriety.

a«Tf»ifBcj. is, whi n a thing or aflion i? fo

[contufu,, Latin.]
to bruife.
Of their roots, barks, and feeds, coniuftd together, and mingled with otjier earth,
and well wj.
tcred with warm water, there came
tbrth herb-

To beat togetlier

1.

.

Fiinefs ;

an abbey ; a mo.,

j

One fcldom finds in Italy a fpot of ground more
agreeable than Ordinary, that is not coicrcd
with
3 convent. ^
Aidjfin.

.^y/iffi

Why Ihould any man be troubled at the con. Co N V e'n E N c E 7 «. [cottvttiietitia, La/
tum-rm of thofe, whofc judgment defervcs not
Conve'niency. J tin.]
to
I

Shakc/pearet

.

A rehgidus houfe

nailery ; a nunnery.

cannot be convened before any but an

ecclefiaftical judge.

Clarendon.

a«

Lodg'J in the abbcj-, where the reverend nbbot.

Coavtna a council in the bleft abodes.

The pang ot defpij'd love, the law's delay.

'**"'"'=•',

An ajlembly of religious perfons ;
body of monks or nuns.
He came to Leiceftcr

1

And now th' almighty father of the gods

Hooktr.
the proud man's cin-

IVilkins,

CO'NVENT. tt.f. [conventus, Latin.]

this parliament than myfelf.

of a few of the wealthieft, then laws, providing
for continuance thereof, muft make the puniiTimcnt o( amumtly and wrong, offered unto any of
the common fort, Aarp and grievous, that fo
the

Fitly; with proper adaptation of part
to part, or of the wliole to the effedl
propofed.
It would be worth the experiment
to enquire,
whether nr no a failing chariot might be more
conveniently framed with moveable fails,
whofe
force may be imprelTed from their motion,
equi.

To call together ; to affemble ; to convoke.

of language ; reproach.

was undervalued and deprelfed

things.
Give me neiriier poverty nor riches, feed me
with food convenient for me.
Prov, xxx. 8«
There are fome arts that are peculiarly conve.
nier.t to fome particiil.ir nations.
lilktfm.

to

To Conve'ne. f. a.

[con,u,nelia.Lvit.]

bltterncfa and contumely.

affociate ;

U or for before the follow-

:

To

Thus contumiriiufiy fliould brcjk the peace.
Sbakrfftar/'i Himy Vf.
^

Drydens Dedication to the Aiveid,

ing noun perhaps it ought generally
to have /ar before perfons, and to before

ami ccnicne in the eyes, before they come at the
•""torn.
Newton's Opt-cks.
2.
affemble for any publick purpofe.
There are fettled periods of their coni:emn^, or a
liberty left to the prince for convoking the iegif-

U^olur,

Fie, lords! that you, being fupreme
magiftratcs.

Th' opprelfor's wrong,

to

_

J^rbutinol on AHments,

The 6re feparatcfi tlie aquegua parts from tlie
others, wherewith they were blended in the concrete, and brings them into the receiver, wliere
they convene into a liquor.
Boyje.
In ihort-fighted men, whofe eyes are too plump,
the refraaian being too great, the rays converge

Reproachfiilly ; contemptuoufly ; rudely.
The people are not wont to. taju^fo great offence, when they are excluded from, honours and

evil niay be prevented.

To come together;

_

It has either

2.

unite.

of
[from contu-

melious.]

- Rudenefs;

_

Health itfelf is but a kind of temper, gotten .ind
preferycd by a convenient mixture of contrarieties.

2. That may be convened.
To CONV'E'NE. 'V. ti. [cotfvettio, Latin.]

3. Produftive of reproach ; fhamefiil ; ig-

melious.']

""•

Sfaifcr's Pujkreh,

Sbakijpcarc's Timnt.

CP'NTUi\IELy. «./

poem muft be

|mpert«ft; or fo convement, that no others can
be
imagined more fuitable to the place in which- tlicy

He is fo meek, wife, and mcrciable.
And with his word his work is comienabk,

Of iontame/ious, beaftly, madbrain'd war.

when their peribos

a

Not now in ufe.

i

Fit; fuitable; proper; well adapted';
commodious.
The. leaft and moft trivial epifodes, or
under
aftions,. are either necqiiary or cotm-niert; either
fo necelTary, that without them the

[cott^alefcens

returnii.g co

Confillent witli ; agreeable to ; accord-

ant to.

none of t,
Govirr.mer,'. cf tht Tongite
Giving our holy virgins to the ftain

as

1.

ftate of health.
Conve'n.\bl.e. adj. [corfjenable, Fr.]

who indeed are not chargeable with that circum-

trodden upon.

CONVE'NIENT. adj. [co,fvenie„s, Lat.]'

Claraidon.

CONVALE'SCBNT. adj.

Swift.
!•
T
^
2. Inclined to utter reproach or praitjfe
infolts ; brutal ; rude.
There is yet another fort o( covtumeRaut perfons,

Contume'liously. adv.

Swft't Guliivcr'i TiiMvefs,

recovered her fpirits to a reafonable convaitf-

ccncc.

pular commotions, till the tim? of the Gracchi.

Pi!4;

honour to difcover.

11

4. Fitnefs of time or place.
Ufc no farther means ;
But, with all brief and plain ccn'jcnkr.ry^
Let me have judgment. Siektjp. Merxh.
ofVenUc„

eafe.
Being in a place out of the re.ich of any alarm,
fl>e

i

con-va-

newal of health ; recovery from a dif-

Sliakefji. liatry

In all the quarrels and tumults at Rome, though
the people frequently proceeded to rude ccmumiHom
language, yet no blood was ever drawn in any
po-

ftince of iU

not think myfelf bouM

Bacor,

ConVale'scency. J /^o, Latin.] Re-

In open market-place pro4uc'd they me

To be a publick fpeaaclc.

It

(>e{Hre,, and (everal other little cmvenkndes,

ait* all

carJu/hm, in hard weather, are more hard to cure.

Reproachful; rude; farcalHck ; contemptuous.
Wiih fcofft and fcorns, and ctntumilkus taunts,

o^ces,

;

'

t9 i Citiverdiik In the afteriiooiu

3

t'

«

Snvifr.

$.'

A

A fecret affembly

3.

;

an affembly where

confpiracies arc formed.
Ay, all of you have laid your htads together
(Myfcir had notice of your emvtntkln)
And ill to make away my guiltlcfs liic.
Sbekcfptcri'i Henry VI.

'

Conve'rsablsness. «./. [from «ni/«--

Having yoar tntverjalicn honeft among the Gen'

Conve'rsabiy. ad-v. [from CBH-ver/aUe.]

acquaintance.

companion.

and

not a free convention qf fathen from all quarters.

:

Let them make fome towns near to the mountain's fide, where they may dwell together with
neighbours, and b« cifirverfant in the view of the
Spenjer's State of Jre/arJ,
world.
Thofe who are eenverfant in both the tongues,
I leave to make their own judgment of it.

Another crop is too like to follow 5 nay, I fear,
pe- mittrd
it is unavoidable, if the carvtnticleri' \x.

DryJn.

Conve'ntion. n.f. [con<ventio, Latin.]
1. The aft of coming together; union;

He ufes the different dialefts as one who had

They are to be reckoned amongll the moft general atfeftions of the tcnvenihm, or alTociations,
of fcveral particles of matter iflto bodies of a.^y
Meyit.
cettam denomination.

An affemblyt

A contraft

;

men.

fliip ;

an agreement for a time,

Ccnviniknal fcrvices refcrved by tenures upon

The ordinary covenants of moft nnvenlKnaiy
tenants are, to pay due capon and due harycll
Carnvi Survey.
journeys.
'

Conve'ntu AL. aefj. [con-ventutl, French.]
Belonging to a convent ; monaftick.
Thofe are called cemvenlual priors, that have the

Relating to ; having for its obieft
concerning : with about, formerly tn.
The matters wherein church polity is con<verJant,

3.

chiisf ruling power over a monaftery.

Ayltff^i Parergon.

CoNVE'NTWAt. n, /. [from coei'tttt.} A
monk i a nun ; one that lives in a con1

H^otton on EJueaticn,

yfddijor'i Sfedatir.

To tend to one point

To be acquainted with

2.

from

worldly affairs, but as regarding our whole exiftcnce.
Addifon's Sfeflalcr.
Indifference cannot but be criminal, when it is
objects
which
about
are fo far from beconverfant
ing of an indifferent nature, that they are of the
higheft imporcance to ourfelves and our country.

Where the rays from all the paints of any obmeet sgain, after they have been made to

jedt

tin-verge by reflexion or reftaftion, there they will
make * pidure of the objcd upon a white body.

Newton's Oftitki.

Addifons Freeholder.

Enfwcepirig fiift
The lower (Vies, they all at once etinvrrge
High to the c.-own of heaven. Thurfon's Autumn.

Conversa'tion. n.f. [co'fver/atio, Lat.]

Conve'rgbnt. 7 "^^ [ from converge. ]
Convk'rcjnc, J Tending to one point

She went to I'amcla's chamber, meaning to joy
her thoughts with the fwcet tonverjation of her
filler.
Sidney.
•
What I mentioned fome time ago in anverjaficir, was not a new thought, juft then ftartrd by

1.

from different pares.
See Series.

Cohve'rsable. adj. [from cort-verfe.

properly ; converfant , ton-uerfation, conQualified for converfation ;
ti^ffMt.^
fit for company ; well adapted to the
reciprocal communication of thoughts ;
communicative.
That fire and levity which makes the young
ftarce convtrfibU, when tempered by years, m.ikes
a ga] uW age.
Md^fm.

Familiar difcourfe ; chat; eafy talk:
oppofed to a formal conference.

accident or occalion.

It

is fometimes written con-vcrjible, but im-

I

any fubjeft ;

as, tvs bad a long converfa-

tion on that quefi'ton.
3.

will converfe •with iron-witted fools.

Shaiefyeari's Richard III.

Men then come to be furnifhed with fewer or
more fimple ideas from without, according as the
objetls they converfe •uiilb afford greater or lefs
variety.
Locki,

To convey the thoughts reciprocally in

3.

talk.

Go therefore half this day, as friend tviib friend,
Converfe •with Adam.
.

4.

The knowle tge of men and manners, the freedrm of habitudes, and tonverjation with the b:ll
Dryden.
His appirent, open guilt
with Shore's wife.
Stak'ffcart't Ricla/d IJI.

I mc^n his (tnverjiititn

Milton's Paradije Loft.

Much lefs can bird tuitb bead, or fi(h voith fowl.

So well converfe.
Milton's Paradil'e Loft.
difcourfe familiarly upon, any fub-

To

jeft : with on before the thing.
We had eonverfed fo often on that fubjeft, and
he had commiinicated hi thoughts of it fo fully
to me, that I had not the leaft remaining difli.
Dryden'i Dufrefnoy.

culty.

To have commerce with a different fex.

5.

Being afked by fome of her fex, in how long a
time a woman might be allowed to pray to the
gods, after having convirfed ivitb a man ? If it
were a hufband, fays (he, the next day ; if a
(i

ranger, never.

Guaidicn.

Co'nverse. n. f. [from the verb.

It is

fometimes accented on the firft fyllable,
fometimes on the laft.
Pope has ufed
both the firft is more analogical.]
Converfation ; manner of difcourfing
:

1

in familiar life.
His converfe is a fyftem fit

Alone to HI! up all her wit.
Sviift.
Gen'rous conxerfe, a foul exempt from pride.
And love to praife with rcafcn on his fide. Pope.
Form'd by thy converfe happily to (leer
From grave to gay, from lively to fevere.
Pope,
2.

Acquaintance ; cohabitation ; familiarity.

'rhough

Commerce; intercourfe; familiarity.
company.

to be familiar

:

Sivift.

A particular aft of difcourfing upon

2.

;

And unrefpcOivc boys none are for me,
That look into me with confiderate cjes.

menr and as a virtue, not only as eonverfan> ahut

different

Tbcnfon's Summer.

}Viih nature.

Difcretion, cnnfidered .both as an accompliih-

{con'vergo, Lat.]

places.

CoNTERCi HO 5fr/>/.

he won him over from thofe points in which he
was miffaken.
Addifon's Treeholdtr.
For him who lonely loves
To feek .the diffant hills, and there converfe

Hoiker.

hjve read a fermon of a ccr.vivtni'l, who laid
that Adam could not laugh before the

To CONVETIGF.. -v. n.

By approving the fentiments of a perfon luisb

whom he eonverfcd, in, fuch particulars as were juil»

If any think education, becaufe it is tontjerf^nt
about children, to be but a private and domellick
duty, he has been ignorantly bred bimfelf.

It down,

fa!;.

by ttrith.

arc the publick religious duties of the church.

vent.

Fr.

to aftion.

Gabriel, this day by proof thou flialt behold,
Thou, and all angels ecntierfant on earth
With man, or men's affairs, how I begin
To verify that folemn mefl'age. Mili.n's Par, Reg.
To fuch a o;ie, an ordinary coffeehoufc gleaner
of the city is an arrant ftatcfman, anl as much
fuperi^ur too, fis a man -oimerfant about Whitehall
and the court is to an ordinary ihopkeepcr. Locke.

by ftipulations.

[con'vir/er,

To cohabit with; to hold intercourfe
with ; to be a companion to : followed

i.

Baton.

of long life.

fettled

ffotteiu

CONVE'RSE. v. n.
con<verfor, Lat.]

Sbakefl>eare's King ychn.
Old men who have loved young company, and
been ccnverjant continually ivitb them, have been

Halt I Common Law,
oJJ. [from con'ven-

Afting upon contraft;

yoj. vlii. 35.

Never to be infeftcd with delight.
Nor converfant tvitl eafe and idleness.

agreed on by compaft.

grants, made out of the crown or knights fcrvke.

//'«».]

of youth.

To

cohabiting : with among or ivith.

nnverfant anting them,

Conve'ntional. adj. [from coawnlien.]

Conve'ntion ART.

adji [from conrjcrfe.'] .
Relating to publick life, and commerce
with men ; not contemplative.
Finding him little iludious and contemplative,
Ihe chofe to endue him with convtrfative qualities

All that Mofcs commanded, Jofhua read before
all the congregation of Ifrael, with the women,
and the little ones, and the ftrangers that were

Syj'ift.

previous to a definitive treaty.
Stipulated ;

Conve'rststivb.

Pofe's EJjay on Ho-ntr.

Publick utK.tr.li<m> are liable to ill the infirmities, follies, a:iJ vices of private

Baeort.

a man may be enabled to give a near conjedure at
K^codviard.
the metallic ingredients of any mafs.

Having intercourfe with any; acquainted ; familiar by cohabitation or fellow-

I

out of long experience is bufinefs

By experience and converfation with thefe bodies,

been ccnverjant with them all.
2.

Peter.

much converfation in books, what J thought

pertinent to this bulinefs.

Dryderti Dufrefnoy.

coalition ; juntHon.

3.

1 fet down,

Hozker.

fofwrrjinr /» their books.

and unlawful affemblies.

5.

converfable manner ; with the
qualities of a pleafing communicative

Acquainted with ; having a knowledge
of any thing acquired by familiarity and
habitude ; familiar with in.
The learning and ncill which he had by being

Conve'nticler. a./ [from ccHventicle.]
One that fupports or frequents private

I

Fraftical habits; knowledge by long

In a

1.

jitlirhury.

'

<

tile».

Conve'rsant. adj. [eenver/ant, French.]

2.

mon life.

companion ; fluency of talk.

If he revoked this plea too, 'twas becaufe he
found the expeSed council was dwindling into a
anventicte, a packed iflTembly of Italian bifliops;

ftiU to fcatter.

Behaviour ; manner of afting in com'

4.

The quality of being a pleafing

fablt.']

An affembly, in contempt.

1.

CON

CON

CON

flefb, to

it be nece/Titated , by its
relation to
a terrcftrial converfe; yet it is, like the

fun, without contaminating its beams.
Gianville's Afol,

By fuch a free converfe with pcrfffTis of diffisrent
fcOs, we

(ball find that there are perfons

of good

fenle and viituSj perfons of piety and worth.
/#-'«« «» tie Mind.

3-

[In

i

CON
from ceKver/us.]

[la geometry ;

3.

is iaid to be the cott-vtr/e of
another, when, after drawing a concluf:on from fometh'ng firfl propofed, we
proceed to fuppofe what had been before

Satidys's Tra-aels.

A
[from the verbi]
perfon converted from one opinion or
one practice to another.
The Jefuits did not perfuade the converts to lay

Co'nvert.

n.

/

When

Platonifra

;

order ; reciprocally.

,

Artificial fjTronyEwiof water into ice, is the work
of a tew hours ; and this of air inajr be tried by a
BiHon.
month's fpace.
There are no fuch natural gradations, and anvtrfioni of one meul and mineral into another, in

1.

Alix xv' <(..

is

Chambers.

Conversion of Equations, in algebra,
the reducing of a frafUonal equation

into an integral one.

Conve'rsive. adj. [^(xQta <on'ver/t.'\ Gonverfable ; fociable.

[lonwr/o, Latin.]
To change into another fubllance ; to
tranfmute.
-v. a.

If the whoie atmofpbere wai tmvarted into wamalcf no more than eleven yards wa-

Burnet.

To change from one religion to another.

2.

Auguiiinc is cenvcriidby St. Ambrofe's fermon,
when he came to it on no fuch dcfien. IJammond.

To turn from a bad to a good life.

3.

So much alike as that one may be ufed

Then will 1 teach tranfgrefTnrs thy ways, and
4.

the needle freely placed.

5.

PJalm li. 13.

To turn towards any point.
Cryft.il will callify into

is

the fpccifick eifence, to

electticity, and convert

Brnvn't Vulgar Erreuri.
to appropriate.
;

To apply to any ufe

the forces of the Gcaules Ihall

thee.

He acijuitted himfetf not Itlee

come unto

J/mah,lx. 5.
an honefl man ;

for he Cfirverred the prizes to his own ule.
.4rburknct on C^'tm.

6.

To change one proportion into another,
fo that what was the tubjcft

of the ftrft

beiTomes the predicate of the fecond.

The papin-. cannot abide this propofition e$nnierted :

all fin

is

i

tranfgrclfi^n of the law;

bui

Hivift.

Co'nvertite. n. /.

[converti, French."]

A convert; one converted from another
opinion.

n.

To

to be tranfmoted.

2

undergo a

Let

My

fwelling externally into a circular form.
A comet draws a long extended blaze

From eaft to weft burns thro' th' ethereal frame,
And half heav'n's convex glitters with the Aame.
Ticket.

CoiiVt'xf.O. farticif. adj. [from convex."]
Formed convex ; protuberant in a circular form.

Conve'xedly. adv. [from coavexed.] In
a coavex form.

•

To remove fecretly.

3.

There was one conveyed out of my houfe yefterday in this balket. Shak. Merry fVivisoffVindfcr.
bring any thing, as an inllrument
4.

To

of tranfmiflion ; to tranfmit.
Since there appears not to be any ideas in the
fenfes have conveyed any in, I
conceive that ideas in the underftanding are coeval

mind, before the

Lode,

with frnfation.

To transfer

to deliver to another.
The ear! of Dcfmond, before his breaking forth
;

into rebellion, conveyed

,

fecretly all

.

his lands to

Sf infer.
Adam's property or private dominion could not

feoffees in truft,

It is the duty

Bluckmore on :be Creation.

Kings, V. 9.

down, without any plain, natural, or divine rule
Lake.
concerning it.

Donne.

A convex body; a body

1

To hand from one to another.
A divine natural right could not be com'ryed

in a circular form ; oppofite to concave.

Co'nvex. «/.

me to the governours be-

place thou (halt appoint me.

2.

5.

of a painter, even in this altb, to
imitate the convex inirrour, and to place nothing
which glares at the border of his picture.
Dryden^i Dufrefncy.
An orb or ball round its own axis whirl j
Will not the motion t" a dlftince hurl
Whatever duft or fand you on it place,
And drops of water .V om its convex face }

be given

A'ri. ii. 7..
come into Judea.
1 will convey them by fea, in floats, unto the

1

tibakej'peare^s King yohr.

Nor would 1 be a convertite fu cold,
As not to tell it.

letters

yond the river, that they may convey me over till

Not in ufe.

Uolohins are ftratght; nor have they their fpin:

change ;

to another.

Since you arc a gentle convertite.
tongue (hall hufli again this fturm of war.

convexedf or more confiderably embowed 'han either (harks, porpoifes, whales, or nthei cenc-ous
Brvwn^i Vulgar Errouri.
animals.

unrightcu^f^c^i, fiys Au^in, upftr. the place. Hj/,'.

To CONVE'Y. V. a. [convebo, Latin.]
1. To carry ; to tranfport from one place

Reciprocally; with interchange of terms.
Theie never was any perfc;n ungrateful, who was
not alfo proud ; nor,, convrrtib/y, any one proud,
who was nut equally ungrateful, ^outh^i Hermons.

,

Ne-wlon,

the fame tliickncfs.

Conve'rtibly. adv. [ frotn convertible. ]

there 10 e lurnj it for us ; all ui li^hteoulntfs, fays
he, is fin ; bu' every tranrgrcflion of the U>v s

yb Convb'rt. v.

externa! protuberance.
Thefe are the phenomena of thick convexoconcave plates of glafs which are every where Of

which our

The ap'/rtl:

«ery tranfgrcflion o( the law is fin.

low on the infide correfponding to the

upon our worlhip to be idolatrous as well as that of
the P^piAs ; and put prelacy and popery together,

The abundance of the A-a thi'A be convened unto
cliee,

Con VEXO-CON CAVE. ar^". Having thehol--

Locke.
name belongs, and is convertible with it.
Many, that call themfclves Proteilants, look

as terms convirtible,

[frora convex."] Sphc--

roidical protuberance ; convexity.

Though it be not the real effence of any fubit

all,

Conve'xness. n.f.

CO'NVEX. adj. [co»ve.vus, Latin.] Rifing

He which tcni^ertech the lioner from the errour
of his way, Ihall fave a foul from dnth, and Siall
Jumts, v. 20.
hide a multirude of fins.
Tinners ihall be convirttd unto thee.

both blunt and (harp, ixe-'convtxly
all along convex, not only/«r
amiituK, but between both ends. Crew's Mu/eeum.

Almoft

conical ; they are

"l

conceptiblc and cotntrtitte into a corrofive alkali.
Arhatbnot on Aliments-

ftance,

In a-

convex form.

Sufceptible of change ; tranfniutable ;
capable of tranfmutation.

terj It would

ter about the earth.

«./.

Bentlcy.

earth.

One Conve'xly. adv. [from convtx."]

for the other.

4. The interchange of terms in an argu-

1

Ragtn.
[{torn convert. "]

'

Newton i Ofticks^

If tlie eye were So piercing as to defcry even
opake and little objefls a hundred leagues o(F, ic
would do us little fervice ; it would be terminated"
by neighbouring hills and woods, or, in the largeft
and eveneft plain, by the very convexity of the

t"

Minerals are not convertible into another fpecies,
though of the fame genus j nor reducible into anHarvey.
other genus.
The gall is' not an alkali j but it is alkalefcent,

<

2.

They paflid through Pheuicc and Sa.-naria, de-

?« CONVE'RT.

ccrwerls

be converted.

grace,

from a bad to a holy life.
3. Change from one religjon to another.

is

the

Conve'rti BLE. aJ/. [fiom convert.

the earth, as many hsv" fancied.
Woodtoard' > Katural Hijiory.
The csmierfan of the aliment into fat, is not
Artuihnot on jilimmti,
properly nutrition.

•virtue.

prevailed,

bottom of the eye, if the glafs have

a due degree of convexity.

Convertibi'lity. n. /. [from cortiiertib/e.]
The quality of being poflible to

tranfmutacion.

5.

tinftly at the

that makes converts.

Conve'rsiOn. It./, [coniuer/io Latin.]
Change from one ftate into another
1

as, no virtue is -vice ; no -vice

Convex gl illcs f ipply the dcfefl: of plampnefs>
in the eye, and, by increafing the refraflion, make
the rays converge fooncr, fo as to convene dif-

Lode.
according to that phiiof^phy.
Let U3 not imagine cliat the firft converts only of
Chriftianity were concerned to defend their reli-

Chambtrs.

Conve'rsely. adn}. [ from ccn'-jtr/e.']
gion.
With change of order in a contrary Conve'rter.

ment ;

berance in a circular form.

Chriftianit) of that fchool interpreted Holy Writ

oppofite to thofe angles are alfo equal.

claring the cemicrfun of the Gentiles.

Conve'xity. »./ [from convexi] Protu-

tf Dlj'cmirje on Rom. Idol.

converfe of the propofition is, that if two
angles of a triangle be equal, the fides

to

inverted, and bath its fpine depre(red.
Brotvn's Vulgar Errours.

Stillingfett^s Defence

afide the ufe of images.

:

Change from reprobation

yet thedolphin, that cairieih Arion, is concavoully

into worms, which they kill with wine.

concluded, and to draw from it what
had been fuppofed. Thus, if two fides
of a triangle be equal, the angles opthe
pofite to thofe fides are alfo equal

.

They be drawn convexcdly crooked in one piece f

The lore of wicked friends eonvtrtt to fear j
Staiefoeare' s Richard H.
That fear, to bate.
They rub out of it a red dult which ccnvertnh

A

propofition

2.

CON

C O 1^

conviy any fovereignty or rule to his heir, who, not

having a right to Inherit all his father's polTelTiens,
could not thereby come to have any fovereignty
over his brethren.

_

Locke.

To impart, by means of fomething.

6.

Men fill

e another's

heads with

nolle

and

founds, but eotniey not thereby their thoughts.
Locke.

That which ufes to produce the idea, though
conveyed in by the ufual irgan, not being taken
Locke.
notice of, there follows 10 lenfation.
Some finglc imperceptible bodies muft come
from them to the eyes, and thereby convey to the
brain foroe motion which produces thofe ideas.
Locke.

They give energy to our expreflfions, ar.d convey
our thoughts in more ardent anl mtenll phrafes»
than anv in our own tongui. j-lddifon s SfeiiatoT'^
7.

To impart

;

to introduce.

What obfcured light the

1;..

,v'ns did grant.

Did but convey unt'i lur fearful m'l ds
A doubtful warrant or immediate death.
Shaktfpeare' s Comedy of Errours.
Others convey theinfelvcs iow the mind by more
fenfc! than one.

LiKke.

8.

Tq

ro N.

of t,b»ir faKOjjrt, and ctnvrftn of tWr will, to
otiierj, do, on that very account, chaJl(U>gs I4^h
honours lo thcmfelvcs.
Atlcrbury^

To manage with privacy.

|.

I will cMviy the bulirwfs as I fhall find m«Jns,
«nd acq^iaint you Vitlui. Shaitjpcfn's King Liar.
Hugli Capst .ilfo, who ufurp'd the crown,
To line hij ti:^c with fome jhcws of truth,
Ckutfjiihimfflf as htir to tk"iiidy'L-.ngarc.

To CONVrCT. nj. a,

To prove guilty

1.

Shatt^f>tpri.

their own coiil'cicnce,

Mad'ft quick iwug'ano'wfth her good aunt Ann.

went out one by ono.
J'tH, viii. 9.

removing fecretly from
f. The method of
one place to another.

which

Ynur hulbin'd 's hare at hand ; bethink you of
fomc omefohcc : in the houle you cahnot hide

that thefe proofs will cmtuct a teftameVit to have
that in it, wliidl other men caii no where by read-

him.

lijg'iiad.

Shii.^<.//>iai\.

The meaiDS 0/ inftrument hy which any
thing is co.oyeyed.

4.

the

verb. }

;

his own crime, cannot appeal.

coiiduC^;d, in fuch a %yild(;rnefs of pillages
and dillinft avcnuC5, by mere impellents and ma'

"'

^

Tranfmiffion ;

5.

"

"" "

G/an.San.Vog.

delivery from

one to

Our author has provided for the defccnding and

Uoth not the afl of the parents, in any lawful
grant or ccnviyancff bind their heirs for ever thcreSpenffr on JrchnJ.
\,nto?
7.

Writing by which property

is

rnent.

juggling artifice ;
fecfet lubjTUtutjpn pf

1

"

\

<z.

fallen into error, as wiih them whofe ftatc hath nu
ground to uphold it, but only the help which, bj
I'ubtile (jrnvjencr^ they draw out of cafual events,
ariung from dly 10 day, till at length they be dean

Huikir.

Clofe cenveya'ce, and each.pra^ice ill
Sfin/ir's JIuh, Talc.
Of collnage and knave y.
I am this day come to furvey the Tower;
Since Hcnrj'j death, I fear, there is ectn/iyance^
Sbakijpure't Henry VJ.
Can they not juggle, and with llight
C'Mvejance play with wrong and right ? Hvd'ibms.

Conve'vancer. n.f,

\i'K)mconveyance.'\

or elfe

found
Cowell.

Sren^ti'soit on Ztar.guttgeu

before earthly princes, in the

Kuclt degree ot apprvacb, wIm uc the difpcufcrs

fallitios, they often

alfo

cciivir,(ikU

ercited fuch emblem's, we havo'

delivered,

Bnttrr.

CoNVi'NCiNCLy. ntf-v. [from ccniiaccl
doubt or difpute ;

fo as to. prodjicft

This he did fo particularly and cerlvinciiirly,
that thofc of the parlianjej|t »v*fc in great confu^

;

CUreMdm.

fion,

The rcfutrcflion is fo ccuviitciag/y attelled by
fuch perfons, with fuch cirtumftanccs, t)>at th?y
confrder and weigh the tellimony, at what
diftancc foever they o^e placed, cannot entertain
more
any
doubt of the rcfurrcdUoa than tjie cruci,^
finion of Jefus.
Atlcrl/uiy.^

who
,

The manner of his c^nyiUm was defigncd, not IConvi'nc.incness. n.f. [from coiiviac'
i>ig.'\
The power of convincing.
miracle, a lifting argument tor the rciroifl/on ol jTo CONVrVE. V. a.
l^convivo, Latin.]
others, to the very end of the World.
An(rbury.
To entertain ; to feaft. A word, I be^
3. State of being convinced.
lieve, not elfewhere ufed.
as a peculiar privilege to Jiirij, but as a llajidjiig

\

Their wifdom is only of this world, to put
colours upon things, M call good evil, anJ
evil good, againft the anvicfhn ot their own con-

t irlt, all

falfe

fcienccs.

.

*

'

Sliajttjycare'i Trsilus

end Crij/~da,

CoKVj'vAL. lf<iJ. [cori'vi'viaJh, Latin.]
CoNvi'vtAL. J Relating to an entertainment ; fellal fecial.
;

was the f.rlt who let up feftivals
Not with high talies our appetites did force.
But fiU'd with convcrfarion and difcourf*?
Which fcalU, CiKvivijl meetings we dij n.am?.
I

contellqd pofition.

conljderjtion.

you peers of Greece, gq to my te^t^

There in the lull cor.vive you.

Swift.

Tiiat whichJ have all thia while been endeavouring to ii,r.iince men ir", and to pcrfuaJe thera
to, is no other but what God himlclf doth particularly rccomrticnd to us, as proper for human

'I'hofe who ftand

or detc-fted.
l''pon what nncertalnties, and

Mi/m's Paradife LJI.

The aft of convincing ; confutation

The cimeytrs uf waters of thcle times conjtent
je';r,

hin^

conviction.

ing the power of convincing.
To CONVrNCE. 1'. a. [convinco. La;.]
I. To force any one to acknowledge a

fix hundred

let

Deciy'ofPit/j,-

li,

for

^property is transferred.
ti. /.
[from cm'vey.']
One
who carries or tranfmlts any thing from
one place or perfon to another.
'

notce/jjikj^ijij/.^ugh,

In fuch a manner as to leave no room

thing unlawful, a:id not ratlier needful, to ufe the
lUw niiviii'ioa, the light of
rcafon
Hwka.

!

bi:

weigH the other alfo.

j

principal_in(lrumei)t o(,

j

[fion^^coxtsiitfctj

Convi,Sion.

i

is

CoNVi'cTiVE. rt/^'. [from fa«x'/<?.] Hav-

themulves with one inch of fall in

'

j

jCoNvrNcsM.Ei^T^ >fi./^

'

A lawyer who draws writings by which
Conve'yf.r.

j

the nfl of forcing others, by argument,
to allow a pofition.
V/hen therefore the apoftle requiretl) habijity
to convia hereticks, can wc think he judgeth ita

men, unadvifedly

Ipcnt.

WJjea Duncan, Is a»l«yp, his twu ch,»inbeilajnj
f
Will I with wine and walicl fo emvinie,
That memory, the ttardct of the brairi,
Shall be a fume.
Staiijfeqiys. Mactitiy

.

private removal ;
one thing for another.

It coaicih herein to pal's wltli

'

j

The third bell abfent Iscondemn'd,
Canvift by Hlght, and rebel to all law ;
CoirviSkn
to the ferpent none belongs.
'

I

Cltrimlor.

the carl.

confefles,

guilty by the inquelh

tliis

itbaicjfeare'i Maditt.

CinviKi d or liipplcd them, they cannorchufe
But they mull blab.
iihfk'fp''"t'OtbcU(i.

I

Deteiilion of guilt, which is, in law,
either when a man is outlawed, or np-

pears and

The very (ettviyancei of Jiis lands will hardly

This

;CoNvi'NoiBt,E. afj. [from cov-viace-l
Capable of cotividion..
yij/ijf<;'s Panrgan.
'.2.
Capable of being evidently. difpr.o\;pd

CoNvi'cTiON. u. f. [from conviil,]

ferred.

8. Secret management;

The great elVay of art.

If that

j*V\s-

I.

Dr.Hfa'rr.

furpiouat.

fenfe is now obfolete.
There are a crew of wretched fouls
That (lay his cure; their malady cannimtt

j

a certain fpace of time both to the convjH and to
perfnns confclTing, in ofdcr to fatisfy th'

tranf-

bo«; and muft the inheritor himfe:f
Jie in
'
Sbahfpure^ t HamJa.
have no more ?
This b^^ot a fuit in the Chancery before tlic lord
Coventry, who found the convtyamcs in law to be
fo ntm, that in juftice he mijll dQctee the land to

A ppr-

On the fcorc of humanity, the civil law allows

grant.

to

Who having, by their own importunate fuit.

minal detefted at his .trial.
,

;

To overpower j

Or voluntary dotage of fomc miftrcfi,

fon call at the bar ; one found guilty ot
the crime charged againil him ; a cri-

cmvcyanci down of Adam's monarchical povvei-, or
L^ckc.
paternal dominion, to pofterity.

Ad of transferring property

;4.

Knaves be fuch abroad.

Popci Efiijl. of Horticc.

another.

6.

M. Cheynci's p.irt was to f£;;w;n«.

^

Ayliffe's Parerz'r.^

Co'nvict. «./. [from thp verb.]

,

Thislftterjiipftsid.of a con&itacion, only urgethi
mc to prove divers paflagcs of my fermpn, which

Ccnvici a papill he, and 1 a pocri

terial ^Ttvtjenceitl have not the lead Conjeflurc.

my mlftret.

Sbakcjpirare's Cymltctine^

detefted in

'By the civil law, a perfon camnB, of conft/Ting

larlj

Npt in i^fe.

Your 1 taU contains nonQ (i> acconjplillv^d .a cour'a

[rather the parti cipli oi

Convided ;

to prove ; to inanil«lt ij

;

tier, to i6in,(n.-f the honour of

litakcr.

!iLiikiJi:eare''iRuhjrd\\\.

Stahfftari's Corhlanus.

Hbw fuch » variety of motioos fliould be n-gu-

•"

To envince
to vindicate.

guilt.
Before I be cenvifi by courfe of law,
To threaten me with death, is mod unlawful.

tut when wc 've ftufTd
Thcfc pipes, and thefc cumiejance! of blood,
With wine and feeding, we have lupplcr fouls.

'

'

"

•

D'r^dlK.

imagining

,

CoNvi'cT. aefj.

We po.u upori the morning, are unapt
To give or to furjivo

'

Hitkigh,

Q fcek not to citminu me of a crimt,
WJ>i^ \ «n v.V .repeat, noi can you. pardon.
.

altvays the reftator tore hinv ;

J*dt, 15.

oferrour.

If there be iim luchrjiiijg apparent upon record,
they ijo As ifonc lAould demand a legacy b; virtue
of fomc written tell.iment, wherein there biang no
fuch'thing fpecilied, he plcaJcth tjiat there it mufi
needs be, and bringeth arguments from the lovi

'

'

The difeovery of a truth, formerly, uolsnoivn,
doth rather ic/wwcf man of ignordn«e, than t)ature

To fhew by j^roof or evidence.

3.

Ifon works, ought to beconlined to places where
tkefe is nof«*w>>M;irt for timbet^o plaics Of vent,
Tevlflc.
fo 3i to quit the co!l of ihc carriage;

'

of all tluit ungodly dec^is,

will it not by dlv.-r be rqe^d. Brctvn'i VulgiEj-r.

the text.

to prove guilty of.

To coji/iii-c all that are ungodly anotang them,

experience of every hand, may w^ll ttnvilt it, yet

Following the river downward, there is convy-

Toconvitl;

,

Although not only the realon of any head, but

Way for carriage or tranfportation.
of lie fTorlii.

to deteft in guilt.

To confute; to difcover to be falfe.

2.

Sbakeffmrc's RUlard III.

Ra.'/igti's H:J!cry

Qrj/den't fufH.
HJIory is all the light vft have i^ many c^fes
5
and vie receive from it a great part of the il'ful
truths we have, with a erinvinihg endenc(^ Liktr

[(BTPvittca, Latin.]

ThingSj that at the firft rticw fecrocd ppfilble,
by rifplng up the performance of thenj, have bsfn
cmviiiij of impojfibility.
Ji.rccii'i W,'y War.

Tell her, thou m.id'A away her uncle Clarence,
Her urde Rivers ; *ay, and for her fake,

ttice into the countries named in

;

^ut, having fliifted ev'ry form to 'ftape,
C»((«/(«'</ of copqueft, he lefum'd hia fliape,

And they whicE heand it, being ami-ffid by

Comve'vance. n. /. [hem convey.^
The aft of removing any thing.
1

2.

CON

«0. N'

is

Tilkifin.
'.'

Your focial and ror.iii-jijl fpirit is fuch, that it
ahappiacfs to live aud coovcrle with you.,
Dr.^Ntivton,

Conu'mdrum.

CON

CON

COO

Conu'ndrum. n.f. Alowjeft; a quib-

To CON\'0'y. T. a. [toH'voyei-, Fr. from
connjiare, low Latin.]
To accompany
by land or fea, for the fake of defence
as, he •was convoyed by pips of miar.

To Co'nyc.^tch. f, n. To catch a cony,
IS, in the old cant of thieves, to cheat j

ble ; a mean conceit

a cant word
Mean time he I'moaks, and Uughs at merry talc,
onumirum quaint, Pbilips,
Or pun ambiguous,
:

To CO'NVOCATE. -v. a. [convoco, Lat.]

To call together i to fumraon to an al'-

I .

Diaphantus, making a general can'v-uaiknt Ipal'c
Shhty.
to them in this manner.

To Coo.

I have made an offer to his inajefty.

My foul grows hard, and cannot death eriJurc

-v.

To call together

;

Such fclljws will

ai'-

AlTembliet exercife their legillature at the times

Shakejji^are''i

Miltan^s ParoHiJe R.gg'.ncd.

To CtpNVU'LSE. f. a. [convulfus, Lat.]
To give an irregular and involunt.vy
motion to the parts of any body.

'

j^utunn,

Co'nvoluted. part, [of the verb I have
found no example.]

Twilled; rolled

all

A toifjiilfion is an involuntary contracand mufcles, whereby

(uiiicy.
diilorted.
It my hand l»e put into motion by a cott'vuljwn^
the indi^crcncy of that operative faculty is taken
away,
Lccke.

Any irregular and violent motion ; tumult ; commotion ; diliurbanee.
fall

Ii.bjeiJl to

In fileD* weep,

Other giands, in ihe lame or fome other manner.

Crrw'i OjffiaJbgia.

A thouftnxl fectef, fubtile pipes bellow,
toa-.ti.

2.

th'

Thau with the fword, famine, or peftilencc.
Va^i'IeSt

King's Cnokfyyt
Ev'ry one to cookery pretends.
Thrfe are the in;;rcdients of plants bt rore^tlii'tf
A.hui'hnot on Allij>iii.}s,
are prr'parcd by coohry.

CONY. a.
tiin,

/'.

Somewhat cold; approaching to cold.

1.

He fet his leg in a pail-full, as hot ai he could
well ehdure it, renewing it ua it grew tv^/.

2,

[ini/fri.

not fond ;

A ribbit

;

*

;

fufTcrs

ytrtjoni Epi^arrs.
by hares and coiyt,

wliich eat the corn and trees.

Miriir.nr'i HuJI>.

//.'«

CTtt the calm fe:>, in cnvo/mhn (wift
Tbeftrtbct'd cJdy floats.
Ibunjin'i^tumn.

Con Y-B9R0UCM.

ri.

without paffion

;

as, a

coo/

refrefiiing coldnefj*
But fee where Lucia, at her wonted hour,
Amid the res/ of yon high marble-arch,
linjoys the noon-day breeze.
Addifons C.Jta
Piiilander was enjoying the cool of tht morning
among the dews that lay on every thing about him,
and that gave theair a frcfho'.-ls. Addijon on Med.

an

It tiiit to be delpalKd of, for our money.

The huibandman

pany.

Tetf:ple,

not ardent ; not angry ;

Cool. «. /. Freedom from heat ; foft and

With ihoit-lcgg'd hen,
Lemons and wine for I'auce to iheft a eony

The ftate of rolling together in com-

;

PriC'-.

Germ, cotinil or con-

Fr. cuniculus, Lat.]

Not zealous

friend ; a cool deceiver.

.\

attending nerve, and twilled
iilackmun

And tofs'd wi<e round,

:

animal that burroughs in the ground.

From which, by num>ou> iinvoh:iotis wound,
Wrapp'd with

Some man's wit
Found th' art of cook'ry to delight his fenfc
More bodies are confum'd and kiil'd with it,

D'yJeiu

And thy convuljive lorro.vs inward keep.

The art of

drefling viftuals.

COOL. ac/J. [koelen. Dutch.]

Her hair ftcod up; convulfive rage po(rt:ri.'d
Her trembling limbs, an^ hcav'd her hb'ring
bteaa,

if you be ready for
Sbakcjpcare^i Cymbc/tnc,

Coo'k E R V. a. f. [from cook.'l

arc irregular and car'vu'f.'ve mocions, or

H^(X,dwarJ on F'jjfili.

ijl all

Hanging is the word. Sir;
that, you arc well cookr.

(Irugglings of the fpirics. UjU^ i Origin of Matik'inii.

DrydcrCl Aui er.g-z,;hc.
Her colour chang'd, her face was not the fame,
And hollow groans from her deep fpirit came

tonnjiiut'wn of the faid librcs

Decay ofPiity,

on ; that which gives twitches or fpafms.
Shew mc the flying-foul's coTiv:iyitj^ (Irife,

might have changed nicfTcs,

To prepare for any purpofe.

2.

Convu'lsive. adj. Sjon'vulftf, French.].
That which produces involuntary moti-

And all the ungiiiih of departing life,

the ftate of being rolled upon itfelf.

Had either of tlie crimes been cooked to their palates, they

limbic.

from Mufcovy-giafs only in this,
that the plates of that are Aat and plain, whereas
tbeCe are convcluttd and infletited.

Convolu'tiok. It./, [fon'vo/utio, Latin.]
The aft of rolling any thing upon itfelf;
1

To prepare vidtuals for the table*

1

under the fame convuljians of Ilate, by diflcri-

They

Riilcigh's Ejj'jys.

To Cook. f. a. [cojuo, Latin.]

I'omc concufli.^ns, and

fions or invafions,

their (hips the cook-rooms are built in their
contrary to that which had been an-

fore-caftles,

the body and limbs are preternaturally

All have been

The kitchen of a

ciently ufcd.

CoNvo'tsi'oN. n.f. [cotfvuljso, Latin".]

z.

crew.

The commodity of this new cook-room tha
merchants having found to be fo great, as that in

upon itfelf.
'I'hii differs

for the fhip's

ihip.

Iboajpr:.

,

Addijon,

land.

Cgok-jjoom. n. f. \_ack and room-l A
room in which piovifions are prep.ired

Follows the loofenV, aggravated roar,
Enlarging, deepening, mingling peal on peal,
Crufii'd honible, tUBvui/ing heaven and earth.

MUton,

wonderful artifice h<v* newly hatched
maggot!, not the parent animal, bccanfe (he em';;s
no web, nor hath any tcxtrir.c art, can £in^-:!-ve
the lluhborn leaf, and bind it with the thread it
weaves from its body.
Dcrlam,
Us'd to milder fcents, the tender race
By thoufands tumble from their honey*d domes,
Convolvd and agonizing in the dull.
a

A

Cognizance; notice; knowledge*

another.

A

and maid.'\

A friend was complaining to me, that his wife
had turned off one of the bell scok-maids in Eng-

Shakeff^ean,

law term.

tion of the fibres

[rao/t

maid that drefles provifions.
,

To CONVO'LVE. 'V. a. [nmvah>o, Lat.]
To roll together ; to roll one part upon

Tb'jiftjon'i

Cook-maid. n. f.

Co'nusance. rt. /. [^conofjpince French.]

I.

eocki

yirhuth'iot on CoirtSt

Not now in ufe*

Coiivcyance.

people being only itnv^ked apoA luch occalloni as
tell into their cognizance*
S'auft.

He writh'd him to and fro ccttinlv'J,

could mjke artificial birds ai(d
(ilhes, in default of the real ones, and which exin
ceeded them
the exquilitenefs of the tafte.

Their

I (hoot from heiv'n to give him fjl'e foniy.

Loch,
Pefc'i OHyJcy.

Drydcn*

Hinry V.

Swift> as a Ip.irkle of a glancing liar,

When next the morning vfirms the purple cart,
The fenatc Originally confided all ot* nobles, the

Siakf/scare's Merry fflves of Windfort
The new-born b.ibe by nurl'cs overlaid.
And the csoi caught within the raging (ire he made.

vices were done ; at fuch a breach, a: luch a rin•voy.

that their conftitution, or their own adjournment,
appoints, if there be no otlicr way prefciibcd to

dnvrit the peerage.

his wafher, and his wringer.

learn you by rote where fcr-

*

fembly.

nmnke them*

hurCe, or his dry-nurfe, or his cotsi, or his laundry,

The aft of attending as a defence.

And ct'Tfjoy is adiHanf, do not ficep,
But let me hear from you,

a. [ccv-vocc, Latin.]

One whofe

in the manner of hij

One miilrefs Quickly is

accompany their merchants, till

(hips

Sifter, as the winds give benefit.

to fummon to an

To cry

profeffion is to drefs and prepare viftuals

Drydtns Pref. Dufrefry.
z..

Upon our
As touching France, to give a greater fum
Then ever at one time the clergy yet

To CONVO'KE.

COOK. n.f. \_coqi4us, Latin.]
;

they may prolecute the voyage without dangei

3.

Did to his predcceffors part withal. Shak< H. IV.
This is tlie declaration of our church ahout it,
made by thofe who met in convocat'icn, StyfingjUift,

[from the found.]

'V. n.

as a dove or pigeon.
Th; flrtckdove only through the foreft aoes.
Mournfully hoarfe.
TbomJ'.ni Suvirreft

for the table.

Convy

fpiritua! ccnvMHtkn,

Oblerve the

Now obfolete.

Your ccrfvoy makes the dangerous way fecure.

Coiue/I,

is

;
a cheat
a ftiarper ; a tricking fellow; a raical.

anvy to fecure them in their paTHtge to it.

:

It

iskakeffeaie's Merry jViiics of Hundfcr,

defence.

On the eighth day fhjll be an holy ccrmocatitn
Lev, xxiii. 20.
3. An aflembly of the clergy for confultation upon matters ecclefiailical, in time

my head againft you, and

matter in

Co'nycatcher, K./. A thief

unto you.

of parliament and, as the parliament
confills of two dilHnfl houfes, fo does
this ; the one called the upper houfe,
where the archbifhops and bi(hops fit
feverally by themfelves; the other the
lower houfe, where all the reft of the
clergy are reprefented by their deputies.

have

the accent was on the lall fyllable ; it is
now on the firft.]
One attending on the road by way of

Had not God fet peculiar value upon his temple, he would not have m.tJe himfdf hU people's

An aflembly.

2.

I

againft your cojiycatching rafcals.

Co'rvOY. ti.f. {from the verb. Anciently

fembly.

Convoca'tion. fi./. [ctm-voca/ie, Latin.]
1. The aft of calling to an aflembly.

to bite ; to trick.

:

JT A place where

rabbits nziJce th'ci/ holes xa ih« ground.

To Cooi,. 1). a. [Jkeclc/i, Dutch.]
I,

To make cool

;

to allay heat.

Snow

they uff in Naples inlhad of ice, hecaufe, ai they fay, it iult <fl congrals any liquor
(ouncir.

A^d'f'n

m luly.
Jelly

•

coo
Jrlljr.of currintt, or the jelly of iny ripe Aibjcld
fruitj It cmting, and very agree;ible t) tfie/Voroach.
jirburhr.ot on Did*

•

To

«.

quiet paffion; to calm anger-, to

That matter that \v0rk5 out of the
BaiUy,
wheels of carriages.
3. It is ufed in Scotland for the ufeleft dull

Stattjftart'i tlcury IV.
He will keep his jealoufy to himfelf, and repine
jn private, becauie he will be apt to fear fome ill
tflecl it may produce in acHitg your love to him.

Had they thought they had been fighting only
other people's guarrelf, perhaps it might have

ccM

their jeal.

A barrel

fion or inclination.
will polTci's him with yel-

luwnefs.

Sbahfpeart.

You never eml while you j-ead Honger. Orydtn.
1 'm

impatient till it be done; I will not £ive
myfeif liberty to think, left I fliould <•«/.
Cortgnvt'i

Ciulcn are of two forts ; firft, t)iofe which produce jn immediate Jenfc of cold, which arc futli
as have their parts in lefs motion than thole cf
the organs of feeling ; and fecondly, fuch as, by
paiticular vifciditj, or groffnefs of parts, give a
greater conliftence to the animal fluids than they
had befoie, whereby they cannot move fo fall, and
theiefore will have lefs of that intelVme force on
which their heat depends. The former are fruits,
all acid liquors, and common water; and the Utter arc fuch as cucumbers, and all <^ubftances producing vifcidity.
^incy.

In dogs or cats there appeared the fameneceflity
for a loJtr at in man.
Harvey ok Cottfumfi'urt.

Acid things were ufed only as cooitri.
Arlutbmt en jiUmaili.
veflel in which any thing is made

A

cool.

Your firft wort being thus boiled, lade off into
«ne or more coolen, or cool-backs, in which leave
the fuUage behind, and let it run off fine.
Mortimer's Hujbandry,

^

Coolly, adv. [from ««/.]
1 . Without heat, or (harp cold.
She in the gelid caverns, woodbine wrought.

And frclh bcdew'd with ever-fpouting ftreams.
Sits coolly calm.

tures.

Jitterbury.

Co'aLNEts. n.f. [from coil.'\

totir.cjt

of fplriti ;

confifteth not in the heat or
for cloves and other fpiccs, nap-

it

when it is ufed ab-

:

There ice, like cryftal, firm and never loft,
Tempers hot July with December's frofl. ff^aller.

The (hecp enjoy the cottntft of the (hade.
Dryden's Virgil.

Want of aftciflion

;

the fame end.
We might work any effefl without and againll
matter ; and this not holpen by the ctoptratim of

difincli nation.

They pytedwitli (nchcoolnefi ;.jward5 each other,

» if they fcarcc hop<rd to meet .igjin.

Clarendon.

Freedom from pailion.

CooM. n.J. [ecama, French ]
Soot that gatners ov*r an aven's mouth

angels or fpi'iu, bat only by tiie unit) and harBacon's Natural Hijiory.
mony of nature.

Coo'pER ATIVE.

Coopta'tion.

That pale, that white-fat'd ihore,
Whufe foot fpurnsback the ocean's roaring lidcs,

the lord Raven-

that he ftirred ;nit ; and iikcwife held in
''','.
Bacon.
the town.
'

In the taking of a to\v'ft the p6or efcape bettt-r
than the rich ; for the on^ is let gt», and the otliei
is plundered and cooped up.
L'BJirarge.
Twice conquer*d cowards, now your (hame is
(hown,
Cxip'd tip a fccond time within your town
Who dare not illue forth in open field.
Dryden's ^neid.
One world fuffic'd not Alexanders mind ;
up
Cotp'd
he feem'd, in earth and leas confin'd.
Dryden^s yuvcnal.
Coop'd up in a narrow iflc, obferving dreams
With flattering wiaards.
Dryden's yuvenal.
The Trojans, roof '(/within their walls lolong.
Unbar their gates, and iffuc in a throng.
Dryden's j^n'ciJ.
The contempt of all other knowledge, as if it
were nothing in comparifon erf law or phyfick, of
aftrology or chymiftiy, coops the underllanding up
within narrow bounds, and hinders it from lookiPj^ ..broad into other provinces of the intelledlual

nate to each other.
The word Analj lis li^'nlfies the generJI and particular heads of a difcou1'f<S U*]lh their mutual connexions, both coordinate ^ni fubordinate, drawn cut
into one or more tables.
Watts.

Coo'rdi k atelv. adv. [from coordinate.]
In tlie fame rank ; in the fame relation :
without I'ubordination.

Coo'rdin ATENESS.

In this high court of parliament there is a rare

monarchy, optimacy, and democracy.

!

other,

I

Cooph'f. n.f. [coufe, French.] A motion
in dancing.

they have no coherence with the
muftgran^that Lyfidius h.TS reafon to tax
that want of due connexion ; for coordination in a
play is as dangerous and unnatural as in a flate.
Dryden on Dramatic Poej'ym

ordered, that

guards

Pope.

Hoviel's Pre-eminence of Parriament.

When thefe pretty intrigues of a play are fo ill

intcred it is to keep them ignorant.

What

[from Coordi-

coordination of power, a wholefomc mixture betwixt

of, their

of thofe whole
Locke.
eo^p whole armies in our walls again
fliiift

f.

ftanding in the fame relation to fomething higher ; collateralnefs.

.

They are cooped in clofe by the laws

n.

The Hate of being coordinate.
Coo'rdi nation, n.f. [horn coordinate.]
The Hate of holding the fame rank j of
nate.]

Loiki.

w.>rld.

,

Coot.

1

».

/ [maer-ieet, Dut. cotee, Fr.J

A fmall black water-fowl, feen often in

Co'opER. n. /. [from eoej).]
makes coops or b.irrels.

One

that

fens and maifhes.

A lake, the haunt

Societies of artificers and tradefmcn, belonging

Of ctots, and of the filhing cormurant.
Diyden's Fables,

to fome towns corporate, fuch as' weavers and coo-

Co'oPERACE.

«. /.

pretend to priviCliJd.

[from

coepfi:']

The

price paid for cooper's work.

n COO'PERATE.

xr.

n.

[con and efera,

Latin.]
I.

To labour jointly with another to the
fame en J: it hasT-v'/i before the agent,
and to before tlie cnd.j
and perplexcth the conceits of many,
that perhaps would ox}\cc\\\ie cooperate "zvith h'lin,
and makes a man walk alraott alone to his own
It puzzleib

ends. .,

but coordi-

cies, fubordinate to the kind,

!

and the

Latin.]

l^cooptt,

Holding the fame rank ; not
being fijbordinate. Thus Iheil-fifli may
be divided into two coordinate kinds,
cruftaceous and tellaceous ; each of
which is again divided into m.iny fpe-

abaktjpcare's King yobn.

The Englilhmen did coof up
ftrait fiege

/.

Latin.]

And coopi from other lands hci if.anders.

flein,

«.

Adoption; aflumption.

COO'RDINATE. adj. {con and ordinatus,

the intenf.ve particle up.

lege and jurifditVion.

t.

The aft of contributing or concurring to

has often, perhaps always,

pers, by virtue of their charters,

•Gives a freflj eoohrjs to the royal cup

f.

folutely,

Bac-n'i Natural Hijiory.
Bacon's fJatwal Hifioty.

cooperate.']

;

cage ; to imprifon

inflamed.

Yonder the harvell of cold mootht laid up,

[from

/.

[from cooperate.]
ItilJ.
Promoting the fame end jointly.
L'Ejlmrgc. Coopera'tor.
ther in a coop.
n.f. [from cooperate."] He
To C00P.1;. a. [from the noun.] Tofhtjt,
that, by joint eiidcavours, promotes the
up in a narrow compafs ; to confine to
fame end with others.
Brcivn.

tha, and petroleum, have exceeding hot fpiircs,
hotter a great deal than oil, wax, or tallow, but not

The toad loveth ihade and cocheji.

rt.

There were a great many crammed capons toge-

Gentle cold j a foft or mild degree of
cold.
This difference

3.

derwent the like fucccfs, when he contemned the

countries,

Motives that addrefs themfelves coo/ly to our reafon, are fitteft to be employed upon reafonable crea-

Rogers*

our compiThenlion.

Coopera'tion.

the prefervation

Gracchus was (lain the day the chickens refufed

Ti-imjin'i Summer.

2. Without paffion.

•

vefl'el for

to eat out of the coop ; and Claudius Pulcher un-

OU BiKhikr.

'Co'oLER.. »._/ [frOfflfW.]
*. That which has tbe power -of cooling
the body.

I.

a

tripudiary augurations.

My humour (hall not cool; I will incenre Ford

2,

Divine Spirit introduces this charjje, and how far
human Ifbeity coo{i4^atei iviib it, ate fubjedls beyond

Baihy.

or (heep.

To grow lefs hot.
To grow lefs warm with regard to pafI

The fpecial afts and Imprcflions by which the

of liquids.
A cage ; a pennfor animals, as poultry

2,

Sari/'t.

^0 Cool. v. n.

;

CteynCi PbUoj'ophieal Principles.

their motion.

A meafuie

COOP. «. /. [kujpe, Dutch.]

-

to deal with poifon ;

Brown's Vatgar Errours*
All thcfe caufcs f M/rerjfi/!^, muft, at laft, weaken

of corn containing four bulhels.

1

1 .

His ir.erty will hot forgive offenders, or his be-

Coomb, or Comb. n.f. [ctmtle, Ft. cumulus, Lat. a heap, Siinner.]

To concur in producing the fame effeft.
nignity eeoptratt tt their convcrfions.

which falls from large coals.

Wy lord Northumberland will fooobe cMtd.

2.

2'.

2.

moderate zeal.

.

C OP

COO

Bacon.

By giving man a free will, he allows man that
highefl fatisfrition and piivilc^e ot eocfcraiing to
'
'
his owu-fdlclty.
Byle.

COP. n.f. [Jtop, Di:t. cop,

Sa.x.]

The

head; the top of any thing; any thing
rifmg to a head as, a cop, vulgarly coci,
of hay ; a cob-caftle, properly cop-cajlle,
a fniail callie or houfe on a hill ; a cob of
cherry- ftones, for cop, a pile of llone? one
laid upon another j a tuft on the head
of birds.
:

Co'pAL. n.f. I'he Mexican term for a
gum.
Co^a'rceN'a RV. n.f. [ho'm coparcener.]
Joint fucceflion to any inheritance.
In defccnt to all

t'.

'

in

'

for w.int of fons^ the
eldelt dkughter.

;

I'...

.

:.

..>

.

ccpai c.nttry

allotted to the

f

C-.mmcn I.avi.

COPA'R.

c o j»>.

CQ

COPA'RCENER. „./ [from «» and /.irLat.]

ticeps,

•

To contend; to flruggle

I.
Cc;.arffrrrs are oth-rwlfecaUcd parceners;
and,
in common law, are fuch as have
equai portion in
the inheritance of .uk anceftor.
Co-mcll.
This great lordihip '-.js broken and divided,
and
partition made bcnvren the five
daughters : in every
of thefe portions, the Kfarcctmi Ccverally
exercifed
Hie fame jurifdiflion royal, which
the' carl marflial and his fons had ufed
in the whole province.
_

-,

t-oPA RCENY. «./ An equal Hiarc of
parceners.

/

[,„ and

the encjny they were to

„.

,. ,
If the

parts of knowledge by (low degrees,
it will be able,
in this manner, to ape vinb
great difficulties, and
prevail over them wlith amazing
and happy fuccefi.
IVatts on the Mind.

the daugh-

their father as in c^art-

Highraif-

To encounter; to interchange kindnefs

2.

know
he royal fool thou cop'fi .with. Shah,
mntcrs Talc.
Thou art e'en as ju(t a man,
As e er my converfation cop'd withal.

from a tree in

Brafil.

rr r>
lo

Cope. 'v.

much

It is

will

Shaiefpeare's Hamlet.
™
e. To embrace.

Not in ufc

that the fox

b:ii copefmate

Sprnftr.
''

Huhberd'sTalc.

1

A

;

coin is in no danger of having
its ch.iraaers
altered hy copiers and tianfcribers.
Mdifin on Coins.

One that imitates; a plagiary an imi-

2.

Without invention a ralnter is but
a c-pier,
a poet but a pLigiaryof
others. Dry den's

his maimer.

Let the faint «;!.«r, on old

'^'"''

and
£,/„/„,,.

[from the noun.]
To cover, as with a cope.

A very lar^e bridge, that is all made of wood,
Co'piNo. „./ [from cope.]
and rc*rrf over he jd.
dur
,

lo contend With; to oppofc.
Know my name is left,

lire of mafonry which

itbatrrf fare's

•

,,,

Kmg I.cht.

Jjnd my friend

.,.'

•J
Have,
by your wifdom, been this
.

J

i

dayacruittcd

in lieu whei^of.

Three thoofjnd ducat;, due unto

lew.
We freeJy cf, your ceurteous pa-i.,thewiUial.
Shah.

VOL. i.

copper and tin

Plentiful; abundant;
great quantities.

a compofition

of

produces what the
rtatucs.

Cbambcrs.
•
..
L.
.
r
Copper IS heavier
than iron or tin ; but liKhter
than (liver, lead, and gold.
,

'

exuberant;

;

bvll-metal ; and c,pper and

trench call broiuc, uleJ for figures and

The upper

jiddifon's Freeholder.

I.

makes

brals, melted in equal quantities,

grace. Tickel.

CO'PIOUS. adj. [copiu, Latin.]

Of a mixture of copper anS

lapis calaminaris is formed brafs

buft oxn|„re =

covers the wall

to give in return.

Of grievous renalt.es

Copper is the moll duftile and
malleable metaL

after (jold and filvcr.

All thefe were of coftly
ftones, even frcm the
foundation unto the coping.
, Kings, vii. o
Ihccopmg, the modillions, or
dentils, make a
noble fliew by their graceful
projeflions.

,

V or :.m I noble as the advcrfary

varioufl»

and cupple ^

CO'PPER. „./ Uoper, Dutch ; cuprum,
l.atin.] One of the fix primitive
metals.

Line after line with painful
paticnc^ffac-,
l^his R',man grandeur,
that Athenian

gnawn. and caaker-bit

as copel. cupel, ctiple,

15

Th«

Tiber's Ihore,

Nor mean the talk, each breathing

a.

J./ trcifon s tooth bare

.

;

tator.

mm

1

ff'^^'i-^'-'-J.-

rrr^.-

[This word

Its ufe is to try and punfy
gold and filvcr, which is done by mingling
lead
with the metal, and expofing it
in the
coppel to a violent fire a long
while.
The impurities of the metal will then
be carried off in drofs, which is
called
the litharge of gold and iilver.

Copier, n.f. [from «/>]
One that copies a tranfcriber.

r>rc
J
Ut fiery d.irts
in

m/eman's Surgery.

but I cannot find its etymology.]
An
inftrument ufed in chymiftry, in
the
form of a dilh, made of afljes,
well
walhed, to cleanfe them from all
their
fait ; or of bones thoroughly
calcined.

he hid found.

,

'^
.Ov'-rhendthedifmalhiis
Aiming vlleys flrw,
Arl flyin,- vaulted eit'irr hoft with
•
fire
'
•y ccf(, together ruA'd
.lain.
Mi/tin: PjraJi/t Uli.
1 .:c Kru lar bclKvcs
thctt is no
under fhe
tc/f of heaven, who u fo knowing
as

fpelt ;

Ne cvcrflaiJ in place, ne fpake to wight,

i 111

broad in its bafis, and rofe copped
like a

r^"""
Co
ppEL. n.f.r

make him tell the tale a.iew;

a companion in drinking,
or one that
dwells under the fame cope, for
houfe 1
Companion ; friend. An old word.

Any thing which is fpread over the
head ; as the concave of the
fkies ; any
archi^rk over a door.

^'^•
Rifing to 3

A galeated efchinus being copped ini fomewhat

CopESMATE. ;,./ [perhaps for fa/>«/^,

facred miniftration.

Mr- I.- A".
With
n this g^dly t,ft, both moft and
leaft,
1 iicir bcmg h«e, and daily are incrcaft.

It was

fugar.loaf.

Shahejpeare's Othello.

A facerdotal cloak, or veftment worn in

r":
I o reward ;

A piece of ground in
which the land terminates witli an

"e tiath, and is again to cope your wife.

vered.

j

r^

A copier; a

Co'pLAND. n.f.

Where, how how oft, how long ago,
and when,

Any thing with which the head is co-

'^''' '•"'"P' '''" ="« contained

I

_

Cope. «./ [See Cop.]

3.

tncnes.

(-OPIST. n./. [from copy.]
tranfcriber ; an imitator.

_

m diforders of the urinary paffaees ufed

'

The Roman orator endeavoured to imitate
the
Homer, and the Latin poet made it
his buiinefs to reach the
concifenefs of Demof.

copioujrefs of

..
r^'"^''rr
Co PPED. adj.
[from cup.]
top or head.

„,
„
Of
excellent witchcraft, who offeree
muft

hat.

great quantity j

acute

Thou frefli piece

hole,

[It is fometimes written
copiw, capay-va, cofayva, atfay-va, ctipayia.] A gum which
diftils

2.

Diffufion ; exuberance of ftyle.

or fentiments.
a filken doublet, a velvet

!

capt-vi,

1.

2.

:

SbahfftaresramingoftbtShrtto.

t/.

Jiddifon's JVhig Examiner.

...

mind apply itfelf firft to caher (uljeds,
and things near a -kin to what
is already known
and Uen advance to the more
remote and knotty

«0PA ^ TV A. »./.

fe Cope.

Plenty; abundance;
exuberance.

,

have concUicted.

Milan's Paradife Rtraind.

a Icarlet cloke, and a cpaiain

3.

Addifots.

1.

Pbilips.

i neir generals have not
been able to cope loitl
the troops of Athens, which I

tq^A , RTNERSHip.«./ [horn copartnir.]
The Hate of bearing an equal part, or

2.

and other wri-

ters, that it IS very
difficult to make any newdif.
covcr.cs on lb beaten a fubjeft.

COPIOUSNESS, n.f. Ihom copious.]

war.

.'
,

At large; without brevity or concife-

Thvfe feveral remains have teen fo (:o«;i).v/?y
deicribed by abundance
of travellers,

Vh'.jlrangc.

Hoft cop dviitb hoft, dire, was the din of

Lcji.

Lofartncr in thefe regions of the world.

1

c.fc mithal.

Miltoit.
,
,adv. [from copious.]
great quan-

Plentifully; abundantly; in

nels; diffufely.

On ever)- plain,

Rather by them
.
•1 gam d what I have
gain'd, and with them dwtll

Oh, fin. villain

2.

Milton.
Tihey
r „
perfcfJly underUood both the hares
1
and

But keep the odds of knowledge in my
powV,
Without cofartvir f
Milton's Paradijt

CopATALV.^^. [from«/.]

1.

The ftrength he was to c^pe tvitb, 01 his own.

Shall I to him make known

poflefling an equal fliare.
Jn cafe the father left only daunhters,

(-„'
.
<-o PIOUSLY,

it.

But Eve was Eve;
This far his over-match, who, fclf-deceiv'd

As yet my change, and give him to partake
Foil happinefs with me? Or rather
not;

ters equally fuccceded to

be the copious matter of my
fong
Henceforth, and never (hall my
harp thy praife
torget, nor trora thy Father's
prail';; disjoin.

And ralh, befoichai\d had no better vreigh'd

Milton's Faradife Loll.

fordi

Tkontjon's Spring.

Abounding in words or images net
5
barren ; not confined
not concife.
;
"'' ^°'*' ^"'°"'' °''
">="
tliy nanw
^u"u'l'
l°"
:>tiall

2.

Shakcfpcarit

Th aflbciatej and copartners 5/ our lofs.

,

'

ihat tofes tulib death itfclf, to'fcape from

Our faithful friends,

ufe

'I'he tender heart is peace,

And>kindly pours its copious treaiures

is

ton has ufed it both with yand in.

,

Af,/f,„.

tits copious

Arbuthnot oil Aiimems.

In various converfe.

or any thing elfe, with another.]

Mil-

„

.

Sbak, Hmy IV.
It
likely th<^ wilt undertake
A thing, like death, to chide away
this Ihame,

flock or affair ; one equally
concerned ;
a fharer ; a partaker ; a partner.

,

of vinegar and acid^ fruits.

We fliould have cofd uiiha!.

Ut^erA

their joy.

T his alkahne acrimony indicates

March by us, that we may pcrufe the men

One that has a fliare in forae common

all-bounteousking,who IhowV*

V^^'h copious hand, rejoicing in

Let our trains

co-

Full me-ifare only bsandi

Fxref., b,f.,re the

It

that to cope with fignilies to interchange
blo--Mi,

Phillips's World oflVords

•COPA'RTNER. ,.

to ftrlve.

;

has -with before the thing or peribn
oppofed.
[In this fenfe it is a word of
doubtful etymology. The conjedure of
Junius derives it Oom lioopen, to buy, or
fome other word of the fame import ; fo

Davits -17 hcUmi.

,

COP

P^

\ To Cope. ». a.

in

Rofe, aa in dance, the ftately trees,
and fpread
* heir branches hung wilh copious (s<t\i.

MUnn.

Hill on FoiJH,.
1 wo vellels of enc copper, precious as
gold.

Exra, viii.

27,
_
Co ppER. «./ A vefTel
made of copper
/>

'

,.

.

.

-

commonly ufed for a boiler larger

a moveable pot.
They boiled it in

a

than

copper to the half, then
Hac.I'i,, Hill

they poured It into earthen vcifels.

Copper. NOSE. n.f. topper and noli. l A
'
red nofe.

3

G

H,-

COP

COP

C O P

H< havlni colour enough, and the other higher,
1
(laming a praife for a good complexion
had as lieve Helen's golden tongue had commended

Is too

:

Sbilrffiart.

Milicn.

G4itta rnfacea arilethin little hard tubercles, affefling the face all over with great itching, which,

Raife trecsin your feminarles and nurfrries, and
you may tranfplant them forcefpin ground, walks,

keing fcratched, looks red, and rifej in great welks,
«n(lering the viCage fier)' j an4 malcet ccfftr-Kc/,i,

or hedges.

Troilus for a ttffcr-n:ft'

Wifman.

as we generally exprefj them.

The

rate of

cofpite

The Romans having fent to Athens, and the

upon the

Greek cities of Italy, for tepiet of the bell laws,
chofe ten legidators to put them into form. Siuift,

lands will

fail

difcovery of coal.minc&.

Locke,

A plate on which

Co'ppLE-DusT. t:./. [probably for fi)//f/,
or cupel duji.] Powder ufed in purifying
metals, or the grofs parts feparated by
the cupel.

cut.

Copper-work. «._/.

It may be alfo tried by incorpsrating

[copf er i^nA •work.']

A place where copper is worked or manufaflured.
This it like thoft wrought at co/fer-vnirti.

or ctiffh-dujl, by pouncing into the quick-

filver.

Bacon.

witli the native green vitriol.

S'wift*! jtldrefs to Parliament.

CO'PULA. n.f. [Latin.] The word which

Chambers. Hill,
may be qucftloned, whether, in this opera-

tion, the iron cr cafftrai be rranfmuted, from the
cognation of cifferas with copper, and the iron

Breiun.

remaining after converfion.

unites the fubjeft and predicate of a propofition ; as, hooks are dear.
The apiila is the form of a propofition ; it reprcfents the aii of the mind, affirming or denying.
Walls's Logick.

Co'pPERSMlTH. n.f. [copper zni.fmith.y To CO'PULATE. f. a.

One that manufaAures copper.

To unite; to conjoin; to link together.

Salmoneus, as the Grecian tale is,
Wa» a mad ttffcrjmith of Elis ;
Up at his forge by morning peep.

'

Jf the force of cuftum, fimple and feparate, be
great, the force of cudom copulate, and conjoined,

Sivift,

Co'ppERWORM. n.f. [teredo, Latin.]
1. A little worm in ftiips.
2. A worm that fretteth garments.
3. A worm breeding in one's hand.
Ainfixjorth,

Co'miiY. adj. [ftom copper."]

[copulo, Latin.]

Contain-

ing copper ; made of copper.
Some fprings of Hungary, highly impregnated
Krlth vitriolick fa^ts, diflolve the body of iron put

and collegiate, is far greater.

To Co' TV I. AT v..

-v.

n.

Bacon.

To come together

as different fexes.

Not only the perfons fo cofuUting arc infefted,
WJcman's Surgery.
but a!fo their children.

Copula'tion. ft./, [from ctpulate.] The
congrefs or embrace of the two fexes.
Sundry kinds, even of conjugal copulation, are
Hooker.
prohibited as unhonelt.

Co'puLATiVE. adj.

[copulativus, Latin.]

A term of grammar.

into 'he fpring, and depofita, in lieu of the irony
particles carried off, coffcrj particles brought with

Copulative propofitions arethofe which have more

the water out of the neighbouring copper-mines.

fubjcfts or predicates connefted by a(iirmative 01
negative conjunctions : as, riches and honours are

IVxuiivarii en Fcjils.

CO'PPICE. »./ [coupeaux, Fr. from couper, to cut or lop.
coffe.']

It

is

often written

Low woods cut at Rated times

for fuel ; a place

over-nm with brulh-

temptations to pride j Caefar conquered the Cauls
and the Britons ; neither gold nor jewels will purWuttt's Logick.
chafe Immortality. ,

CO'PY; »./

wood.

A land, each (lit whereof was bounded both
with high timber trees, and eofjet of far more
SiJny.
tumble ^-rowth.
Upon the edge of yonder ccpfke,
(land, where you may have the faireft (hoot.

A

Stak^/ptari,

In ri>/i/ic< woods, if you leave ftsddles too thick,
they run to bu(hes and briars, and have Utile clean
Sattn
under wood*

I .

[copie, Fr. fopia, low Latin;

fuod cuipiam faila eft copia exfcribcndi.
Junius inclines, after his manner, to
derive it from xott®-, labour ; becaufe,
fayj he, to copy another's writing is very
painful and Uborious,]
A tranfcript from the archetype or original.
If virtue's felf wen lo(f, we might
From ywK fair mind new (tpitt wtftc

Waller.

one of many books

The autograph ; the original ; the archetype ; that from which any thing ic

3.

I. E -STONES are lumps and fragments
of ftone or marble, broke from the adjacent cliffs, rounded by being bowled
and tumbled to and again by the adion
Woodiuard.
of the water.
Co'ppLEn. adj. [from <«/.] Rifing in a
conick form ; rifing to a point.

:

;

as, a good, or fair copy.
The very having of the books of God was a
matter of no fmall charge, as they could not be had
otherwifc than in written ctpiet.
Hooker*

Copp

titious copperas, in many refpefts, agrees

An individual book

z.

powder of

(leel,.

Co'pPERAS. n.f. [hpperoefe, Dut. eoupercii/t, Fr. fuppofcd to be found in copper
mines only.J
A name given to three
forts of vitriol ; the green, the bliiifh
j[reen, and the white, which are proThere is fame difference in this (hape, fome
duced in the mines of Germany, Hunbeing flatter on tlie top, others more coppled.
fVoodioard on Fc£iii.
is
But what
gary, and other countries.
commonly fold here for copperas, is an Copse, n.f, [abbreviated from coppice.]
Short wood cut at a certain growth for
artificial vitriol, made of a kind of
fuel ; a place overgrown with (hort wood.
Aones found, on the fea-lhore in Effex,
The eaft quarters of the (hire are not dcditute
Hampthire, and fo weftward, ordinarily
Carrw^s Survey ofCornivatL
of copfe woods.
their
colour.
ftones
from
gold
called
Oaks and brambles, if the copfe be burn'd.
They abound with iron, and are expofed
Confounded lie, to the fanjeafhes turn'd. Waller.
But in what quarter of the copfe it lay,
to the weather in beds above ground,
His eye by certain level could furvey.
and receive the rains and dews, which
Drydtn's Fah/es.
in time breaks and diffolves the ftones
7« Copse, "v. a. [from the noun.] To
the liquor that runs off is pumped into
preferve underwoods.
boilers, in which is firft put old iron,
The neg'efl of copjtng wood cut down, hath been
which, in boiling, diffolves. This facof very evil confequence.

It

Soutb't Sermonu

Aiortiwur^t Hujhaneiry.

piftures are engraven for the neater impreflion, diftingailhed from a wooden

C^orPER-PiATE. n.f.

I hiT» not the vanity to think my ctfy equal t»
the original.
Denbane^
He ftcpc forth, not only the copy of God's hands,
but alfo the cc^^of hisperfe^ions, a kind of image
or rcprefcniation of the Deity in fmall.

The willows, and the hatel ctp/n grttni
Shall now no more be feen
Fanning their joyous leaves to their foft lays.

copied.
It was the copy of our conference;
In bed he dept not, for my urging it;
At board he fed not, for my urging it.
Sbniefpeare'i Comedy of Errmrs*
Let him firft learn to write, after a copy, all the
letters in the vulgar alphabet.
Holder^ I Elemmtt of Speeeb,
The firft of them I have forgotten, and cannoC
eafily retrieve, becaufe the ctfy is at the prefs.

Dry dee,
4.

An inftrument by which any conveyance is made in law.
Thou know'd that Banquo and his Fleance lives;
But in them nature's copy 's not eternal.
Sbakefpeare's Macbeth,

5.

A pi(3ure drawn from another pidlure.
[copy and book.]
A
which copies are written for

Copy-BOOK. n.f.
book

in

learners to imitate.

Copy-HOLD. n.f.

[copy

and

hold.]

A

tenure, for which

the tenant hath nothing to fhew but the copy of the rolls

made by the (leward of his lord's court
the Reward, as he enrolls other
things done in the lord's court, fo he
regiflers fuch tenants as are admitted in
the court, to any parcel of land or tenement belonging to the manor ; and the
tranfcript of this is called the court roll,
the copy of which the tenant takes from
him, and keeps as his only evidence.
This is called a bafe tenure, becaufe it
holds at the will of the lord ; yet not
fimply, but according to the cuftom of
the manor fo that if a copy-holder break
not the cuftom of the manor, and thereby forfeit his tenure, he cannot be turned
out at the lord's pleafure. Thefe cuftoms
of manors vary, in one point or other,
almoft in every manor. Some copy-holds
^re finable, and fome certain : that
which is finable, the lord rates at what
fine or income he pleafes, when the
tenant is admitted into it ; that which
is certain, is a kind of inheritance, and
calkd iu many places cuftomary ; becaufe the tenant dying, and the hold
being void, the next of blood paying the
for

:

cuftomary fine, as two ftiillings for an
acre, or fo, cannot be denied his adSome copy-holders have, by
miftion.
cuftom, the wood growing upon their
own land, which by law they could not
have.
Some hold by the verge in ancient demefne ; and though they hold
by copy, yet arc they, in account, a
kind of freeholder ; for, if fuch a one
commit felony, the king hath annum.

COR

COR

diem, and 'uaftum, as in cafe of freehold.

Some others hold by common tenure,
called

mere copy-hold; and, they com-

I .

the air.

If a cuftomr.ry cenant di.e, the widow fliall
liav?
what t'le law calls her free ber.ch in all his cop^.

Copy-HOLDER. »./ [from (opyhoU.] One
-v. a.

[from the noun.]

To tranfcribe; to write after an ori-

to a foot or

ginal

rioufly ramified.

it has fometiraes out, a kind
of
pleonafm.
He who hurts a harmlcfs neighbour's peace,

.

2.

Decay of Piety.

Set the examples, and their fouls inflame

To ccfy tut their great ferefathers fame.

j
t

I .

it is

but being brought
into the air, it becometh hard and
mining red, as
Bacon's
Natural Hi/lory.
*'Jf^."^;
This gentleman, defirous to find the nature
of
coraJ, caufed a man to go down
a hundred fathom
into the lea, with exprefs orders
to take notice
whether it were hard or foft in the place
where It
groweth..
Bro^un', ru/gar Errours.
"«"«"» t°' crackling found of coral woods.

To do any thing in imitation of fome-

xnuft of ncceffity be excellent ; and never
fail,
when they crjfy, to follow the bad as well as the
good things.
Dry Jen's

Dufrrfmy.
_
It has fometimes from before the thing

And fees the fccret fource of fubterranean floods.

DryJen't Virgil.

imitated.

A turret was inclos'd

When a painter ccfnis fran the life, he has no
privilege to

And crimfon coral, for the queen of night,

alter features

Who takes in Sylvan fports her chafte delight.

Sometimes after.

_
Dryden,
,
,
Or where s the fenfe,
direfl or tnoral.
.

.

,

Several of our countrymen, and Mr.
Dryden "in
particular, feem very often to have copied

after it in

tlieir

dramatick writings, and in their poems upon

'•"'!;

Addifin'! Speclaior.

,

To Coquet,

-v.

That teeth are pearl, or lips are coral
Prior.
z. The piece of coral which children
have
about their necks, imagined to

them in breeding teeth.'

To entertain with compliments and amorous tattle ; to treat with an appearance

of amorous tendernefs.
You arc cojuettlng a maid of honour, my lord
lookiiig on to fee how tlie gamefters play,
and I
railing at you both.

To Co(iy e't. -v. n.

Swift.

To ad the lover

j

to

The bells /he gingled, and the whiillc blew.
It IS a

who but a month ago

CoQUE'TRr.

n. f.

fifting of coral;

S'.nifi.

[coqtuterie,

of attrafting notice.
I was often in company with a couple of
charm-

ing women, who had all the wit and beauty
one
cobid defire in female companions, without
a daft
of oquelry, that from time to time gave me a great
many agreeable torments.
Addifn's Steaaictr.

[coquette, ?r.

from

a prattler.] A gay, airy girl ;
a girl who endeavonrs to attraft notice.
coqufirt,

'I

he light coquettes in fylphs aloft repair.

And fport and flutter in the fields of air.

A cojueiu and a tinder-box are fparkltd.

rope.

n.f. ffwrow^/f, Wellh, probably from corium, leather, Lat.]
A
boat ufed in Wales by fifliers, made
by
drawing leather or oiled cloth
upon a

frame of wicker work.

A fhort piece of timber flicking out

1.

inches from a wall, fometimes placed for ftrength under the femigirders of a platform.
2.
niche or hollow left in walls for
figures or ftatues.
Chambers,

A

CORD, n.f [cort, Welfh

;

Pope.

fometimes

frequently white.

Hill
a fort of fand, or ratlier
coralline, that lies under the
owfe.
M„riim. Ihjb.

Co'r a L LOi D

.

v_o RAHoiDAL.

is

7 adj. [no^oc>},cuh,.]
j

Re-

feinbling coral.

No'.v that plants and
ligneous bodies may indurate under water, without

approachment of air, «c

have experiment in coralKne,

with many coraUoidal

g^^^^^

1 he pentadrous,

columnar, coralloid bodies, that
lengthways of the body,
and pafling from the furface to the
axis of it.
Pf^oodmard on Fojfils.

are compofed of pl..te.. fet

Cora'nt. »./ [courani,Vrtnch.]

A lofty

fprightly dance.
It is harder to dance a corant well than
a jigg;
fo in converfation, even, eafy, and agreeable,

more

than poiati 0/ wi t.

Temple.

jof. ir. 5.

Blackmore,

The cords extended in fetting up tents,

2.

furnifli feveral metaphors in fcripture.

Thine eyes fliall fee Jerufalem

a quiet habitanot be taken down
;
none of the flakes thereof fliall ever be
removed,
neither Aall any of the cords thereof be broken.
_

tion, * tabernacle that

Co'ralline. n.f. [from the adjedive.]
greeni/h, fometimes yellowl/h, often
reddifh. and

A

rope; a firing compofed of feverail
ftrands or twills.
She let them down by a cord through the winForm'd of the (ineft complicated thread,
Thefe num'rous cords are thro' the body fpread.

matter of all kinds, and in
particular the coralline matter, letting it fall
again,
as It becomes calm.
JVocdivard.

but

chorda, Latin ;

"•o;^-

approaching to coral.

Coralline is a fea plant ufed in
medicine;
much inferior to the coral in hardnefs,

;

corde, Fr.]

,

concretions.

A'buihmt and Pcpc.

Co'racle.

Co'r BEL. \
.
Co'rb.l. I "'•

At luch time as the lea is agitated, it takes up

In Faloiouth there

The,

reprefentation of a baflcet, fometimes
placed on the heads of the caryatides.

into_ itfelf terreftrial

French.]
Affeftation of amorous advances ; dcfire

COQUE'TTE. «./.

«.

Co'ralljne. adj. [f«fa//»»w, Lat.] Con_

Was married to the Tunbridgc beau,
I faw ctjuenin^ t" other night.
In publick, with that odious knight.

Co'rbel. «. / [In architediure.]

/ [corallodcndro/t Lat.]
native of
.

n, f.

Little balkets ufed in
fortification, filled with earth, and fet
upon the parapet, to ihelter the men in
firing upon the befiegers.

America, and produces very
beautiful fcarlet flowers ; but never
any feeds in
the European gardens.
Miller,

entice by blandifliments.
I'hyilis,

Spenfer's PajtcraU,

Co'rbeils.

1.

Her infant grandame's coral next it grew

Co R A L-T R E E

Caln-.et,

For fiker thy head very tottie is,
So thy corie Ihoulder it leans amifs.

affift

[from the noun.]

a.

money, were depofited.

Cor BE. adj, [courie, French.] Crooked,

fix or eight

Within the wall, of alabaftcr white.

and lineaments, under
pretence tiiat his pifture will feck better.
Dryden.

3.

it hath no
under water.

It IS foft, and, green ot' colour;

thing elfe.
Some imagine, that whatfoerer they find in the
piflurt of a mafter, who has acquired teputatioil,

t.

voted themfelves to tlie fervice of God and his
temple.
Corian fignifies alio the treafury of the
temple, where the offerings, which were made in

coral IS found. It is a fubmarine plant
;
leaves 5 it brancheth only when

S-uiifu

To Co'py. <v. n.

their creditors, by confecrating their debt to God.

its nouriftiment, in the manner
of plants, and to produce flowers and

table kingdom.
Hilt's Mat. Med.
In the fea, upon the fouth-weft of Sicily,
much

Dryderfi King ArtbuK

To co/y her fev/ nymphs afpir'd.
Her virtues fewer fwains admir'd.

bidden to_ ufe it. If all that he was to give hig
wife, or his father and mother, was declared corian,
he was no longer penr.itted to allow them neceflary
fubfillence. Even debtors were permitted to defraud

height, and is va-

feeds, or at leaft a matter analogous
to
feeds, it properly belongs to the vege-

this defign ai ctipymg it out, poffelfes himfelf
of one

of Che greatell advantages.

or his temple.. The Jews fometimes fwore hy corian,
or the. gifts offered unto God. If a m.m made all
his fortune corian, or devoted it to God, he was for-

take in

He that borrows other men's experience, with

King Charles.

Our Saviour reproaches the Jews, in the Gofptl,
with thefe uncharitible and irreligious vows.
By
this word fuch pcrfonswere likewife meant, as
4e-

them ; but as it

F-l'ilh.

,

Corian (lands for an o/Tering or gift made to God,

any way penetrating
is found to grow, and

root, or without

To imitate; to propofe to inutation {
to endeavour to refemble.

"'

their c'jrlan of religion.

It is thickell at the
ftem, and its branches grow gradually
fmaller.
It grows to ftones, without
a

:

Who loves a lye, lame /lander helps about.
Who writes a libel, or who cjfki oui. Popi:

more in

Wtillb,

a receptacle of charity; agift; ai^alnvj.
They think to fatisfy all obligations to duty by

The vulgar opinion, that coml

and which is taken off before it is packed
up for ufe. The whole coral -pUnt grows

that is poffefled of land in copyhold.
1.

about his coffin.

Co'rban. n.f. [mp.] An alms-ba&et ;

is foft while in the fea, proceeds
from
a foft and thin coat, of a cruftaceous
matter, covering it while it is growing,

AJd&n.

To Co'pY.

I would ai foon believe a widow in great grief
for her hu/band, becaufe I faw her dance a. corant

Red coral IS a plant of as great hardnefs
and ftony nature, wliiie growing in the
water, as it has after long expofure to

mitting felony their land efcheats to
the lord of the manor.
Ct.'welL

*"''» '»"<'«•

C O R

CCRAL. It./. [corallium,L!H\a.-]

fliall

//u/iri, xxxiii. JO.

3.

A quantity of wood for fuel, fuppofed
to be meafured with a cord ; a pileeight
feet long, four high,

and four broad.

Cord. MAKER, w./ [cord &nd taaJie.] One
whofe trade is to make ropes j a rope*
maker.

CoRD-wooD. «./ [cord tind 'Wood.] Wooci
piled up for fuel, to be fold by the cord.
To Corp. "v, a. [from tlie noun.] To bind
with ropes ; to fallen with cords ; toclofe
by a bandage.
Co'rdage. n,f, [from cord.] A quanuty
of cords ; the ropes of a (hip.
Our cordage from her /lore, and cables, fliouW
be made.

Of any in that kind mo/l /it for marine trade.
Drayton,

They faftened

and rid at anchor
with cables of ir»n chains, having ncidier canvas
nor mdage.
Raleigh.
their

/hips,

3^2

Spuia

.

COR

COR

COR

•pain fumid.eiJ a fort of ruft called fpartum,

Cordwa'iner. It./,

Villalpandm
the leaves in the volute.
imagines the Corinthian capital to have
taken its original from an order in the
temple of Solomon, whofe leaves were
The capital is
thofe of the palm-tree.
adorned with two rows of leaves, between which little ftalks arife, of which
the fixtecn volutes are formed, which

[uncertain whether
from Cordoiran, Spanilh leather, or from
cord, of which (hoes were formerly made,
Co'rbed. mJj. [from cord.'\ Made of
and are now ufed in the Spaniih Well
ropes.
Indies. Tieojoux.] A Ihoemakcr.
This night h« meaneth, with a fcrrffi/ ladder,
To climb celeftiahSilvia's chamber windjw. Shak. CORE. 11./. [ceeur, French; tor, Latin.]
fet'ul f«r ccfJa^e anJ other parts of /hipping.
^rhutinr>t on Cc'int.

Cordeli'er. n.f. A Francifcan friar:
fo named from the cord which ierves him

I .

Give me that man
That is not pafTion's Have, and I will wear him

for a cin£ture.

And who to aiHft bur a grave corjelitr.
Pritr.
CCRDIAL. «. / [from car, the heart,

js.

Latin.)

A medicine that increafes the force of

the heart, or quickens the circulation.
2. Any medicine that increafes llrengtli.
A etrtiiaty properly fpeaking, is not always what
increafeth the force of the heart ; for, by increaling tliat, the animal may be weakened, as in
Whatever increaliith the
inilammator>' diTeafes.

'

,

'

natural or animal ftrcngth, the force cf niavinf:
Ui- Aaids and mufctes, i:> a cordial: thtle .trc fucfi
fubftasces as bting the ferum of the blood into the
prupcrcA condition t»r circulation and nutrition j
as broths made of animal fubAanccs, millc. ripe
fruits, and whatever is endued witn a wholefam'e
j4riuihfioron Alhntins.
but not pungent tafte.

ji'

Any thing that comforts, gladdens, and

exhilarates.
Then with fome eerdlah feek for to appeafe,
The inward languor of my wounded heart,

I

.. .<;

(,

,i

i

by Bacon for a body or colle^ion. [from corps, French, pronounced
>.

core.l

'

in

Charms to my fight, and cordials to my mind.

1

reftorative.
It is a thing I make, which hath the king
Five times redccm'd from death : 1 do not knuw

What is more cordial.
Sbahefpeare'i Cymbeltne,
He only took cordialwucxs, in which we infufed
fometimes pu.gatives.

iVifemart^s Surgery.

Sincere ; hearty ; proceeding from the
heart ; without hypocrify.
DoAtines are infufed among chriHians, wh:ch
•re apt to obftruft or intercept the rwrfij/ fupcriiruAing of Chriftian life of renovation, where the

foundation is duly laid.
He, with looks of cordial love,
Hong aver her enamourM.

Cordia'lity. «./.

Hammojid.
Milton.

[froTO.- corJial.J

Relation to the heart.
That the antlents had any fuch rcfpefts of coror reference unto the heart, will
doubted.

diality,

much be
Braiun,

freedom from hypocrify.
t'o'RDJALLY. otiv. [from forrt'/a/.] Sin-

any doflrine or propofition wholly unfuiiable to the
no argument, or demonstration, no nor

heart,

miracle whatfuever, (hall be able to bring the heart
rondially to dofe with, and receive it. South's Scrm.

that he was in a core of people whofe ufftrdlions he
fufpcfted.
Bacon's Henry VII.

[coriaceus, Latin.]
Confifting of leather.
2. Of a fubllance rcfembling leather.

I.pr'ythcc take the r^ri out of thy mouth, that
I

Then future ige» Inall of firggy tell,
That nymph that brew'd and [lottled ale fo well.

ftron^er projeftile motion of the blood muft
.occafioQ greater fecretions and lofs of liquid parts,

fize.

and from thence perhaps fpilTitude and coriaceous

pillow, be fure to faften it well with three corkingfins, that it may not fall ofiin the night.

concretions.

jirbulhuo: on yj/i,trals.

Coria'nder. tt. /.

A plant.

[coriandrum, hadni"]

i .

G reatcr coriander. 2. Smaller

tefticulated coriander.

The firil is cultivated for

Tile fpccies are,

the feeds, which arc ufed in medicine : the fccond
fort is feldom found.
Miller.
Ifracl called the name thereof manna ; .ind it
was, like fonaTa'rr feed, white.
Exodus, xiii. 31.

CO'RINTH. n. / [from the city of that
name in Greece.] Afmall fruit, commonly called cur runt.
Now will the corintbs, now the rafps fupply

Delicious draughts.
i'hilijK.
The chief riches of Zant ccnfiA in corinihs,
which the inhabitants have in great quantities.

CORDON, ti.f. [Fr.] In fortification, a
row of Hones jutting out before the rampart and the bafis of the par.ipet.

CO'RDWAIN. n. f.

Chamhtrs.
{Cordovan leather,

from Cordova in Spain.]

Spanifti lea-

ther.

S':ui/:'s Dire^ions to the Chainhcrmaid

Co'rky. adj. [from feri.]

Broome.

Bind fill his corky arms.

Co' R MORA NT. >i. /.

Sbaitff, King Lear.

Fr. from
corvus tnarinus, Latin.]
It is
1. A bird that preys upon fi(h.
nearly of the bignefs of a capon, with
a wry bill and broid feet, black on his
body, but greenifh about his wings. He
is eminently greedy and rapacious.
[ Cormorant,

Let fame, th.i: all hunt after in their lives.
Live regifter'd upon our brazen tombs
Wlien, fpite of cormorant devouring time,
Th' endeavour of this prefent breath may buy

That honour which ihall 'bate his fcythe's keen

Qrthr, is generally reckoned the fourth, but by ibme the fifth,
of the five orders of architefture ; and
is the moft noble, rich, and delicate of

them all.

CouUllingof

cork ; refcmbling cork.

Cori'nthian

edge.

Stakeffea-e.

Thofe called birds of prey, as the eagle, hawk,
Ptacham on Drawing.
put^ck, and cormorant.
Thence up he flew, and on the tree of life
Milan's Paradifi Loft.
Sat like a cormorant.
Not fartVoni thence is feen a lake, the haunt
Of coots, and of the filhing eormorant. Dryd. Fat.

Vitruviiis afcribes it to Cal-

of his capital, the pie in ihe abasus, and

tntcs.

When you put a clean pillow-cafe on your lady's

!

In golden buflcins of cofti) wijuixn. Fairy S^ctn.

It is fo ufed in divers fta-

Sbateff. As you like it,
hz fire, nay very lure, thy cork be gocd j

may drink thy tldintiS.

King.

Her ftraight legs troft bravely were embay'J

A

It is

taken off without injury to the tree.
3. A piece of cork cut for the flopple of
a bottle or barrel.

Nor flop, for one bad cork, his butler's pay. Voj.e,
Corking-pin. n./. A pin of the largefl

.

limachus, a Corinthian fcuiptor, who is
faid to have taken the hint by pafling by
the tomb of a young lady, over which a
bafket with fome of her playthings had
been placed by her nurfe, and covered
with a tile ; the whole having been
placed over a root of acanthus. As it
fprung up, the branches encompafled
the bafket ; but arriving at the tile,
bent downwards under the corners of it,
forming a kind of volute. Hence Callimachus imitated the baflcet by the vafe

Co' DINER, n.f, [coriioumcr, French.]

.Aiorrimer,

,

,

ples, or burnt into Spaniih black.

to rclift the rebels, tha.i of the refifiance itfelf ; for

2. Sinccf iry ;

cerely ; heartily ; without hypocrify.
Whire a flrong inveterate love of fin has made

and the jio^tjt of New

The bark of the cork tree ufed for Hop-

2.

A

Reviving ; invigorating ;

fevcral parts of. Ita|y,

England.

.

He W.1S more doubtful of the raifing of forces

Coria'ceous. act/,

fhoemaker.

MtlUr,
The cori trcegfows near tlie Pyroieit) hills, ai:d

Bacon.

5. It is ufbd
'

DryHcif.

the ilex, exxepting the bark, which, in
the ccrk tree, is thick, fpongy, and foft.

.

4. .Tke. matter contained in a boil or iorc.
I.aunce the fore,
And cut the K-adj for, till the txre be found.
The fticrct vice is fed, and gathers ground.

j

1,

:

no i'sri* or flonc.

CorHiah of pity give me now,
Cvwlty,
For I too weak for purges grew*
Your warrior offspring that upheld the crov\"n,
The fcarlet honour of your peaceful gown.
Are the mo{l picafing obje^s 1 can find.

2.

.

Hor.]

Con/uli Tullo,

A glandiferous tree, in all refpeds like

1.

It if rspjrted that trees, watCfeJ pet^et'i.i'.Jy
with v/^rni water, will make a fruij with litte or

Eut fuch fweet rcrrf.v/> pafs phyficians art. Sfex/er.

I.

Amphora /umum bibert in/litula

The innenpartof a fruit which contains

'

Co'rdiai. aJj.

Hie dies, anno redeimte, ft/lus
rCorticem a/irillum pice dimo-jehit

Thomfon.

the kernels.

are large columns of the

CORK, n./. [for/^*-, Lat. /(sff*, Dutch.

They wafteful eat.

3

ftgtires

Corinthian order, adorned with fruit and flbwers.
Drjdeti,

Through buds and bark, into the blacken'd rore.

Drydeti's Virgil,

And then my body {hall have (hortly eafc;

Behind thefe

The inner part of any thing.

In the fire bf the fquare Ihe raiftd- a tijwer of a
furlong high.
Ralrigh's Hi/lcrye/ibityirJd.
Dig uut ciic c^-cs bcJow the furface*
Mirtinur't Hiifiaiidry.\

Harru,

fupport the abacus.

In my heart's corii ay, in my heart of heart.
Shatefpiere's Uamlil,

.

1.

The heart.

2. A glutton.
CORN. n,/. [copn. Sax. korn. Germ.

It

found in all the Teutonick dLilcfts ;
as, in an old Runick rhyme,
is

H/tgiil er kalda/}ur corna.

Hail is the coldeft grain.]
I .

The feeds which grow in cars, not in
pods ; fuch as are made into bread.
Except a com of wheat fail into the ground and
die, it abideth alone.

John, xii. 15,
; and, of late.
When Mta was given then gratis, you repin'd.

Tiw people cry ysu mock'd them

.

Shake/ttare.

2,

.

Grain.

COR

COR
2.

Grain yet unreaped, {landing
upon its ftalk.

in the [

I

graljer, a great jheep-niafter, a great

All the idle weeds th.it prow
In our fuAaining cornm.
Shakfjpeare' t King hear.
Landing his men, he burnt the earn all there-

Still a

a great culller, a great corn-n.ajiir,

KnMciS tiljiory of tbt Turhs.
murmur runs

Grain in the ear, yetunthre(hed.
a full age,

Staiefpeare's Henry Vni»
It is better to dwell in a corner of a houfe top,
than with a brawling woman and in a wide houfe.

A

Provtrb:, xxv. 24.
I am perfuadcd that none of thefe things are
hidden from him ; for this thing was not done in

longer than ordinary, and placing pins in it to railc

i corner.

large hammers.

All the inhabitants, in every corBifr of the ifland,
have been abfolutely reduced under his immediate'

Mortimer.

green ftalk of corn.

Tickil,

CoRN-ROCKET.

Ladies, that have your feet

UnplaguM with fcriri, weMl have a bout with you.
Sbakejpeare.

The man tliat makes hl^ toe

Cornfallad

Bacon I Natural IVijiory,
middle, thiafting itfelf in a nail ; whence it has
the Latin appellation of clavh.
H':Jcmiin.

He firft that ufcful fccrct did explain,
That pricking cornt foretoli the gath'ring rain.
Gay*: Piijtor.ili.
It lonks as there were regular accumulations
and gatherings of humours, growing perhaps in
fjme people as r^irj.
Arluthnot,
Thus Lamb, renown'd for cutting corns.
An oiTerM fee fiom Radcliff fcorns.
S-wift,

an herb, whofe top-leaves are a
Mortimer i H:ijhjnclry,

A tenure which obliges the
landholder to give notice of an invafion
by blowing a horn.
Co'r nchandler. n.f. [corn and chand-

;

on each

The nail was not loofe, nor did fcem to prefs
into the ficrti ; for there bad been a corncuttcr, who

when the horfe is four years and a half
old.
Farrier'' sDia.

had cleared it.
ff^ijeman.
I have known a corncutter, viho, with a right

It was a lover and his laf~.

That o'er che green com-jicld did paff.

You may foon enjoy th-^

A^ \su ttke it.
o{ armies,

encampment', and ilandarJ^

c

ther's ctrnf.dds.

-' your bro-

Popt.

CoRN-FLAo. »./ [fDrmnd^ag.'] AplantMiller enumerates

eleven

fpecies of

this plant, fome with red flowers, and
fome with white.
Corn-floor, n./. The floor where corn
is llored.

Thou haft loved a reward upon nay corn -jlcor,
Hof, ix.

I.

1

r T
T
\cornus^

. 1
Lat.
1
^

CORNE LIAN-TREE. j> n.f. •
,

The

cornel-trii

bcareth

the

commonly

fruit

:

which we know have fruits of harfli
and binding juice, and fet them near a vine or figtree, and fee whether the grapes or figs will not be
Bacon* t Natural Hijiory.
the IwcctcrA huntrefs ilTuiiig from the wood,
Rccllnirg on her cornel fpear fhe flood.
Drydcn,
Mean time the goddefs, in diUain, bellows
The maft and acorn, brutal food! and ftrows
The fruits of cornii, as they feaft around.
elder-tree,

Cornets and trumpets cannot reach his car j

Under an aftor's nofe, he 's never near.
Dryden's Juvenal
2.

On wildings and on ftrawbcrries they fed

j

Thefe noblemen were appointed, with fome
and bands of foot, to put thembeyond the hill where the rebels were encamped.
Bacon.
Seventy great horfes lay dead in the field, and
one cornet was taken.
Hayward.
They difrerncd a body of five cornets of harfc
very full, ftanding in very good order to receive

Dryden's Ovid.

CO'RNEMUSE. n.f. [French. 1

A kind

of ruftick Ante

them.
.

.

and

French.]
I. An angle;
walls

or

ctfrnier,

a place

inclofcd

by two

liaesj.' which

would

intafeift

partem, that runs round the

coffin,

by the hair that
joins and covers the upper part of the

Biotun.
Tfie various fubmarine (hrubs are of a corneous
chicHy
of a
or ligneous conftitution, conllfUng
H^codwasd.
fiSrons matter.
;

Cornet o/'a^STor/J', is the loweflpart of
his

Such as have corneous or horny eyes, as lobfl-ers,
and crti^aceous anifflaii» are generally diir.fightcd.

CO'RNER. n.f. [(ornel.WeKh

Clarendon.

The officer that bears the ftandard of a
trcop.

Co'rneous. adj. [orneus, Lat.] Horny;
of a fubflance refembling horn.

,

perhaps
as many as had a cornet belonging to^
them. This fenfe is now difufed.
;

ftlves

^

but only amongft corn ; as the Olue-bottle, a kind
of yellow maiygold, wild poppy, and furmitory.
Bacon s Natural HiJioTy.
Corn-fi&wers are of many forts ; fnme of them
flower in June and July, and others in Auguft.
The feeds Ihould be fown in March : they require
a good foil.
Mortimer.

A company or troop of horfe

cornets of horfe

Pope's Odyffey.

Corke'lian stone. See Carneli a n.

Corn-master, n.f. [nir« and mnfier.]
One thai cultivates corn for falc. Not

Co'r NET. n.f. [VDr»«/^, French.]
1. A mufical inftrumcnt blown with the
mouth ufed anciently in war, probably
Ifrael played before the Lord on pfalteries, and
on timbrels, and on cornets.
2 Sam. vi. 5,
Other wind inflruments require a forcible'
breath ; as trumpets, cornets, and hunters horns.
Bacon's Natural Ilijf.~ry,

dom or never in other places, unlefs they be fct,

Mortimer s Uufhandry.

[corner and ivife!.^
Diagonally ; with the corner in front.

the name of the tree, as the coinclian ftone, the
colour whereof it fomewhat reprefcnts. The wood
is very durable, and ufcful for wheel-work.
Mortimer.
Take a fcrvicc-tree, or a corneiian-tree, or an

And falling acornt fumifh'd out a feaft.

Pafturcs and meadows are of fuch advantage to
hulbandry, that many prefer them to comJandi.

ffioot

in the cavalry.

Jhiuer.^
There be certain com-fowers, which come fel-

appropriated to the produaion of grain.

which

called theror«/ or cornelian cherry, as well from

Cornels and bramble-beirles gave the rclt,

Corn-land. ».y; [cern and land.] Land

of the jaw,

Sfeflalor,

[from corn and

». /,

fide

Co'rnerwise. adv.

education, *vould have been an excellent ph)ncian.

•'

A field where corn is

HowePs * 'ocal P.crejt.

corns from the foot.

f>

growing.

Shakeffcare,

A mafon was fitting a corner-Jlone.

.

Co'r N EL.

To granulate.

See you yond' coin 0' th* capitol, yond' cornft..
Jsone f

One that rct.^ils corn.
Corner-teeth of a Horfe, are the fore
Co'r n c u tt e r «. /; [from corn and cat.]
teeth between the middling teeth and
A man whofe profeflion is to extirpate
the tuflies
two above and two below,

by

the old Saxons.

the corner ; the principal ftone.

ler.]

The

as Skinner obfc/ves,

'

Corner-stonb. n.f. [corner andy?»«f.]
The ftone that unites the two walls at'

Latin.]

Tf Corn. t/. a. [from the noun.]

To fait; to fprinkle with fait.

is

fnllet of thcm(clvcs.

Co'rnage. n. /, [from fflr«^, Fr. cornu,

frort.

The hardeft part of the corn is ufually in tiie

GoR!»-PLOWER.

\_fiom corn anifal-

"*

lad.]

grieve either towards rain or towards

51 it'

Ml^t I but through my prifon, once a day,
Behold this maid, all corners elfe o' th' earth
Let liberty make ufe of.
Shakefpeare' s Tenpeft.
I turn'd, and tried each corner of my bed.
To find if fleep weretheve'j but flcep vfras loft.
Dryden,

A plant.

rociet.]

And turn his deep to wake. Sh, King Liar,
Even in men, aches and hurts and lomi do cn-

Corn-field, ff.yl

part.

and

corn

Corn -ROSE. n,/. A fpecies of poppy.

Shall of n corn cry woe.

word is fo ufed,

[ from

n, f.

Corn-s.4llad. n. /?

What he his heart ibould make,

in ufe.

Davix.
Thofe vices, that lurk in the fecret corners of
the foul.
Mdifon.
_
the utmoft limit ::
3. The extremities ;
thus every corner is the whole or ewery

Now the (liriH lOr jj-f'ipis, echoing loud to arms.
To rank and file reduce the ftraggling fwarms.

fubltance.

Ads, xxv'l. z6.

fubjeftion.

A pipe made by flitting the joint of a

probably ft) called from its
ihrm, though by fbme fuppofed to be
denominated from its cornmus or horny

my con-

Deferves a corner.

A flower.

'\

0'

fcience,

Job, V.
An excrefcence on the feet, hard and Corn-pipe. n.f. [from torn and /j/^.J

painful ;

2.

There's nothing I have done yet,

[corn and mill.'\
mill to grind corn into meal,
Save the more laborious work of beating of
hemp, by making the axle-tree of the corn-milU

56.

1.

.

[from com and

Corn-mill, n.f,

like IS a ihock. of tvrn comech in his feafnn.

^.

each other, if drawn beyond the point
where they meet.
A fecret or remote place.

Bacon.

marigold.

Thomfr.ns Autumn.

Thou ilialt come to thy grave in

limber-man,
and a grc.-.t

ieadman.

Corn-marigold, n.f.

Along the fofc inclining fields of urn.
3.

Itnew a nobleman in England, that had the
any man in my time ; a great

greatcft audits ai

field

sboutSy which was now almoft rip«.

COR

is

diltinguiilied

Farrier's DiSl.
hoof.
fcarf anciently worn by doilors. Diil,
6.

A
A head drcfs.

7.

Cornet

Dia.

of Paper is defcribed by
Skinner to be a cap of paper, made by
retailers for fmall wares.

Cc'rnettsr,

-

COR

COR

crowns the entablature and the'whole
order.
It it called by workmen tht
Chambtrs.
drip.

Teen and dulcet, and all their fwecpiog train,
PcpL
And garters, ftars, and coronets appear.
2. An ornamental head-drefs, in poetical
language.
The rcit was drawn into a coronet of gold, richly

COR
Co'nifiTTiii.

A

[from comet.]

tu /.

it

blower of the cornet.
bu great was.ilic rabble ortrumpetterSi umntn,

'

and olhiT muHcians, that nrcn Claudius himrdr'
nrght have heard them. ti-iknvUl ta Prtn'ifitnce.

[«rn;V^f, French.] The
highell projeftionof a wall or column.
'ihe n-nict of the Pa. CO Fatnefe, which
nuk.'S To beautiful «n cf)c£t beloW) when viewed
mo.e nearly, will be found not to hate its jud
meafutes.
Drjiutt Dufrrfnoy.
The walU were mafTy bnifs, the carmct high

iCo'rnice.

In a tornice the gola or cymatlum of the c?-

ma, the coping, the modillions or dentelli, make

<i./.

a noble

Co'rokal.

A man of about forty -five years of age came to
me, with a mund tubertle between the fagittil and

and csrnUulate flowers are
fuch hollow flowers as have on their upper part a
kind of fpur, or little horn.
Chamhtn.
CoRNi'piCK. adj. [from ccrnu axiA facia

Frodudive of horns ; making
Di6l.
[cornigef, Latin.]

Horned ; having horns.
Nature, in other comigeroui animals, hatli placed
the hoins higher, and reclining j as in bucks.

1.

2. It is applied in

of plenty ; a horn topped with fruits
and flowers in the hands of a goddefs.

and nouriflicd by the blood, which is
convened to it by the coronity arteries.

king.
Fortune fmiling

Up {tood the c(/niy reed,
Embattel'd in her field.

Sidney.

a corollary feems to
be a conclufion, whether following from
the premifes neceflarily or not.
Now finoc we have confidered the malignity of
:

this fin of detraOion,

it is but a natural lorellnry,
that we enforce our vigilance againil it.

Ca'vernmeiit cf the Torgye.

Drydint Ftilii, Preface.
2. Surplus.
Bring a uriUary^
Rather than want.

1

caught with ringing in

the king's aS'airs upon his corcnati-jn day.
Shaiijpcare' i Henry IV.

Now emprefs f.ime had publilh'd the renown
Of Sh

'a

coronation through the

town.
Dryjcn's Marfl.

The pomp or affembly prefent at a co-

2.

ronation.
In penfive thought recal the fancied fcene.
Pope.
See coronations rile on ev'ry green.

Co'roner. n.f. [[torn corona.] An officer

Stakefpearc's Henry V,

Render to me fome corporal fign about her.

More evident than this. Shakefpcarc's Cymbel'.ne.
That God hath been otherwil'e feen, with cor.
fora! eyes, exceedeth the fmall proportion of my
Raleigh,
underftanding.
Beads enjoy greater fcnfual picafures, and feel
fewer corporal pains ; and are utter ftrangcrs to all
thofe anxious and tormenting thoughts, which perA:tcrhury.
petually haunt and difquiet mankind.

Material; notfpiritual.

corporeal is ufed, as, a corporeal being ;

Corporeal is,
but other wife corporal.
having a body ; corporal, relating to
This dillindion feems not
the body.
ancient.
Jir'hither are they vanifh'd ?
air; and what feem'd corporal
Melted, as breath, into the wind.
Shakefpeare* s Macbeth*

And from tbefe »r/icro/ nutriments, perhaps.
Your bodies may at laft turn all to fpirit.

0"

Go thou and feek the coroner, and let him fit
my uncle for he 's in the third degree of
;

drink ; he 's drowned.

Co'ronet. n.f.

Sbaktfpeare.

the di-

Co'rporally. ed'v. [(com corporal.] Bodily.

An infer'our crown worn by the nobiThe coronet of a duke is adorned
lity.
with ftrawberry leaves; that of a marquis has leaves with pearls interpofed
tnat of an earl raifes the pearls above
the leaves ; that of a vilcount is furrounded with only pearls ; tiiat of a baron has only four pearls.
In his livery

Walk'd crowns and coromts; realms and illands
were

The fun Uctrforally conjoined with bafilifcus.
Bro".vn.

CO'RPORATE. adj. [from corpus, Lat.]
United in a body or community; enabled to aft in legal procefTes as an in-

1.

dividual.
Breaking forth like a fudden temped, he overrun all Munfter and Connaught, defacing and
utterly fubverting *W corporate towns thai were pot
Arongly walled.
Spenjer on Jrclaiid*
The nobles of Athens being not at this tim: a
corporate atTembly, therefore the refentment of tlie
commons was ufually turned againft particular

Skakeff>/art's Aiiionj and C/eofialra.

CORO'NA. n. / [Latin.]

A large Hat

member of the cornice, fo called becaufc

Raleigh's H':Jiory»

pure.

[coronetta, Ital.

minutive oi corona, a crown.]
I.

If this light be not fpiritual, yet it approacheth
and if it h.rve any cor.
pirality, then, of all other, the moft fubtilt snJ
neareft unto fpirituality ;

As plates dropt from his pocket.
Slake/feari', Teirpc/l.

In the prefent

when body is ufed philofophically in oppofuion to fpirit, the word

langu.tge,

whofe duty is to enquire, on the part of
Milton's Paiadife Lsji.
the king, how any violjjnt death was occafioned ; for which purpofe a jury is Corpora'lity. n.f. [from corporal.]
The quality of being embodied.
impannelled.

As a onllary to this preface, in which 1 have
.done jufhce to others, I owe fomewhat to myfclf.

A hundred alms-houfes right well fuppiied.

2.

Shakeffieare^s Hcar.let.

VrytJ^n,

corolla ; jinii coronal opus : corollair, Fr.]

a

To flievf my duty in your coronation.

•Midft fummer's plenty, thinks of winter^ want j

Co'roll ARV. H./. [cm-ollarium, Lat. from

that

Willingly I came to Denmark,

Milmn's Parad'ijt Left,

By canflai>t journeys cmeful to prepare
Her ftores. and bringing home the corny car. Pricr.
3. Containing corn.
They lodge in habitations not their own, *
By their high crops and ccray gitzards known.

work therein,

natm.

[from rem.] Producing grain or corn.
Tell me why the ant.

The conclufion

at her

fcaffoid of execution fliould grow « fcatl'old af coro-

continual larum of jcaloufy.

Strong or hard like horn ; horny.

Latin.]
Relating to the body; belonging to
the body.
To relief of latars and weak age,

1.

BentUy's Sermons.

Corona'tion. n./ [from foro/w, Latin.]
1. The aft or folemnity of crowning a

A cough, Sir, which

Co'rny. adj. [from rornu, horn, Latin.]

Harris.

tainly made

to cuckold.

Shaktjbtart^ t Merry H^rvej of H^mtifor.

under him.

CO'RPORAL. adj. [corferel.Fr. corpus,

Of indigent faint fouls pall rcr^trtf/ toil,

The fubftance o( tlie heart itfelf is moft cer-

[cernutuj, Latin.]

with horns ; horned ; cuckolded.
CtiRNu'ro. n.f. [from carnutus, Latin.]
A man homed ; a cuckold.
The peaking cornuto, her hulband, dwelling in a

arteries;

in the manner of a garland.

Corni;'ted. «i^'. [cornufus, Lit.] Grafted

1.

anatomy to

their arms neat

which arc fancied to encompafs the heart

Srcwn^s f^ulgar Errouru

CORNUCC/PIjE. «./. [Lit.] The horn

and failors keep
and clean, and teaches
them how to ufe them. He has a mate
that all the foldiers

Relating to a crown; feated on the top
of the head like a crown.
The bafililk of older times was a proper kind
of ferpent, not above three palms long, as I'ome
account; and difteteoced from other Icrpents by
advancing his head, and fome white marks, or
Broivn.
coronary fpots, upon the crown.

An officer that hath

the charge of fctting the watches and
fentries, and relieving them ; who fcea

fViJmar..

ai-cnal future.

lanCt and horned pods ;

2.

Gaj.

Coxvotiki. of a Ship.

Co'rON ARY. adj. [coronarius, Latin.]

Cornkulttte plants are fucb as produce many dlf-

1.

The cruel corp'ral whifper'd in my ear.
Five pounds, if rightly tipt, would fct me clear.

the head.

A term in botany.

;

move the fentinels.

Sfenfer.

ConKicvLK-tt. adj. [from cornu, Lat.]

To bellow horns

K\..n. f. [corrupted from caporal,
French.] The lowed officer of the infantry, whofe office is to place and re-

Co'r po

Belonging to the top of

Co'ronal. adj.

unto the long and ihorter ctrnUUf upon protrufion.
BrczvfCs Vulgar Errturt.

To CeRNu'TE. f. a.

In curls, on either cheek play'd. Milton's Tar. Lofi,

A

Latin.]

[corona,

Crown ye god Bacchus with a rerstitl.
And Hymen alio crown with wreaths of vine.

ring from the muzzle backwards.
Chamhers.
Co'rnicle. «./. [from «r»», Latin.] A
little horn.
Tl ere will be found, on cither fide, two b!ack
filament], or membranous ftrings, which extend

adj.

/

Sidiy.

Under a annel his flowing hair.

Sfeliaror,

crown ; a garland.

Cornice Ring. [In gunnery.] The next

CoRKi'cEROUs.

«.

fct with pearl.

their graceful pro}e£tions.
I

Blue metalt crown 'd, in colours of the Iky.
Pifis OJylfey.

Lutin.]
horns.

ibew by

Their coronets fay fo,
Shakijp. H«ry VUl.
Nor could our nobles hope their bold attempt.
Who ruin'd crownsj would cormM exemf t. Drji^

Sv/ft,

pcrfons.

All the reft are counteffcs.
2.

General

;

united.

They anfwer in a joint and corporate voice.
Sbaktfpeare' s Tmon.
That BOW tkey ate at fall.

Co'rfo-

COR

G O R:

COR

Co'rpohateness. »./. [fmn eorprate.]

He lix)ks as man was made, with face erefl.

The ftate of a body corporate ; a com-

That fcorns his brittle corfs, and feems afham'd
Drydtni Don Hehajiian.
He 's not all fpirit.
carcafe ; a dead body ; a corfe.
3.
Not a friend

Di<3.

munity.

CoRPOR a'tion. ft./, [from corpus, Lat.]
A corporation is a body politick, authorized by

A

Greet

And violent death in thouland Ihapes difplay'd.

Coweli.
as a finglc man binds his executor or heir.
Of angels we are not to confider only what they

The rcr^^ was laid out upon the floor by the
emperor's command
he then bid every one light

thrown.

Siakejpeare.

:

See Corporal.
The fwiftncfs of thofe circles attribute^
Though number Icls, to hi omnipotence,.
fpiritaah

Milt.rCi ParaiTtfe Lofi,

Having furveycd the image of God in the foul,
are not to omit thofc characters that God
imprinted upon the body, as mu£h as a fpirituai

we

fubilaace could be pi6lured upon a cvportaL
South^i Sfrmons,
God being fuppofed to be a pure fpirit, cannot
TiHotJln,
be the objedt of any corporeal fenfe.
'J'he courfe is lintih'd which thy fates decreed.
And thou from thy corporeal prifon frce4.
Dryden't Fahlei.
Fix thy corptreal and internal eye
On tlie young gnat, or new engender'd fly. Prior.

Z. It is ufed by Siwi/i inaccurately for corpora/.
1 am not in a condition to make a true Rep
even on Aimlbury Dr>wns j and 1 declare, that
a corpcrtal falfe (lep is worfe than a political one.
Svjift.

Corpore'ity. »./. [from corporeus, Latin.]

4.

Materiality; the quality of being

Cold numbnel's ftreight bereaves

5.

Co'rpulence. 7

j.

,

Bulkinefs of body ; fleihinefs ; fulnefs

was create,!.

Brrwn.

Corforipica'tion. »,/ [from cerporiThe aft of giving body or palpa/}.]

wherein things contrary do
and correci the one the danger of the
other's excefs, that neither boldnefs can make us
prefume, as long as we are kept under with the
fenfe of our own wrctchcdnefs.; nor, while we truil
in the mercy of God through Chrift Jefus, fear be

We fay it is a flefliy ftile, when there is much
and when, with

more than enough, it grows fat and corpulent.
Ben "Jonfonl Dijcvoeries.

Baccn.

its

Vo Corpo'rify. v. a. [fromcorpus, Lat.]
To embody ; to infpiffate into body.'
Not ufed.

A certain fpiritnoos fubftance, exirajled out of
i^ it millaken for the fpirit «f the world corptrified,
Boyle.

Cor psE. \ "'^ {.""P'' ^^' f-"-/"'. Latin.]

Corke'ct. adj. [fcrr?<f7«.f, Latin.] Revlfed^
or fiuifhed with

That lewd ribiuld
Laid firft his filthy hands on virgin cleene,
To fpoil her dainty corfe, (o fair and Oieene,
Of chaftity and honour virginal.
Spenfcr.

A body, in contempt.
Though plenteous, all too little fecnit
To ftuJT this maw, tlui vaft uohidc-boand cr,rfi.
Mi.ltn.

exaftnefs ;

.

free

What verfe can do, he has perform'd in this.
Which he prefumcs the moft cotrefl of his.

\adj. [from eerpu/.

Uryden's Aur. Pro!.
Always ufe the moft^orrrff editions : various
readings will be only troublelome where the fenfe
is

complete.

Felion^.

1.

Puniftiment ; dil'cipline ; chaftifement;
penalty.
Wilt thou, pupil like,

Bojie.

.

Shakifi>care's Rhiardil^.

This may be faid, that the modem corpuJci.!ariani talk, in mod things, more intelligibly than

An oS'.iifivc wife,
Th:it hath enrag'd him on to oft'er flrokes,
As h;: is flriking, holds his infant up.
And hangs rcfolv'd cornflion in the arm
That was uprear'd to execution. Sbak, Henry IV.
are all but children here under the great
mafler of the family ; and he is plcafed, by hopes
and fears, by mercies and correHions, toinftruiS us

Beniley,

The mechanical or for/lB/i-aiir philofophy, though
peradventurc the eldefl, as well as the beil in the
world, had lain dead for many ages in contempt

.

We

Bcr.tley.

Co'rraci. E. See Corricle.
To CoRR A'DE.ii.n. [conWe, Latin.] To
rub off; to wear away by frequent rub-

poiat.

;

Corre'ction. n.f. [fiom coma.']

Take thy correRiiis mildly, kifs the rod ?

bing ; to fcrape together.
Corradi a'tion. n. f. [con and radius,
Latin.]
A conjunftion of rays in one

from

faults.

any principles fropofcd, more comprehcnfive and

and oblivion,

A body.

To remark faults*.

4.

intelligible than the corpufcularian or mechar:i. 3!.

the psripaleticks.

.

may be correhed by boiling

with fjme animal fubttances ; as ivory or hartfhorn.
Arbutbnot on Aliments.

As to natural philofophy, 1 do not cxpedt to fee

bility.

quality oi relaxing

it

CoRPuscuL a'ri AN. j

cu/um, Lzt.^ Relating to bodies ; comprifing bodies.
It is the diftinguiihing epithet of that
philofophy, which attempts the rational
folution ot all phyfical appearances by
the action of one body upon another.

Prior.

In cafes of acidity, water is the proper drink

;

Corpu'scular.

Hooiter*-^

As, in habitual gout or ftone,
The only thing that can be done,
Is to correfi your drink and diet.
And keep the Inward foe in quiet.

CCRPUSCLE. «./. [corpu/cu/nm, Lat.]
A fmall body a particle of matter

Who

!

able to tyraanize over us.

Excefsof nouri/bment is hurtiul j for itmaicetli
the child corpulent, and growing in breadth rather

Netuton^s Of-^tich.
knows what are the figures of the lit.le
ctrpujckt that compofe and diftinguJIh diflfcrent bodies ?
fyaiii's Lcgici.

to
Pope's Preface.

fo qualify

bulk.

ccrpuJcUi can be difcovered with raicrofcopes.

.

me to correli as

_

U happy mixture

having great bodily

Since philofophy aflirmeth, that we are middle
fubdanccs b'. tween the foul and the body, they
muft admit of fome corporeity, which fuppofeth

was as pleafant to

Dry den.
corrtBtd, be-

I

To obviate the qualities of one ingredient by another, or by any method of.
preparation.

3.

Ray on tkt Creation.

^

am»fed me ;

to its domcrtick concern : to confider what habit
wants to be torrefied, and what inclination to be
fubducd.
Bogirt.

[corpulentus, Latin.]

than in height.

it

The mind may cool, and be at leifure to attend

requiring a great force to divide it.

periphrafis, and circuit of -words ;

it

write.

The mufculou^i fleih lerves for the vibration of

bulky ;

becaufe

I writ,

caufe

groflhefs of matter.

the tail ; the heavinefs and cerf/ulency of the water

Fleftjy ;

ia

individuals, to what flic ought to be, and what flie

It is but one fpccies of corpulency ; for there may
be bulk without fat, from the great quantity of
mufcular fleib, the cafe of robuH people.
Arbutbnot on Alimenli.

atij.

faults

Burnet's Theory, Preface,
drreffing Nature, from what aflually Are is in

To what a cumberfeme unwieldinefs.
And burdenous corpulence, my love had grown.

Co'rpulent.

away

minds, which can fcarce ever be corrcSlcd afterwards, either by learning or age.

of fle(h.

2. Spiflitude ;

to take

writings, life, or things.
This is a defedl in the firll: make of fome men's

/• r
t
r .... i
>n.J.\corpuientia,\j9X.\
'''•/j

'
Corpulency.
5

ry

1,

To amend;

2.

A body of forces.

bodiiinefs.

GlartvilleU Scepjli.
of corporeity.
The one attributed arfereity to Cod, and the
Siil/irgjleet.
Other (hape and figure.

2.

Her ccrps of fenfe, and th' air her foul receives.
Vcnbam.

an atom ; a little fragment.
It will add much to our fatisfadlion, if tbofe

It is the faying of divine Plato, that man is
nature's horizon, diTiding betwixt the upper hejsifphcre of immaterial intelle€ti> and this lower

1.

The body, in oppofition to the foul.

embodied ; the ftate of having a body ;

weight or gravity.

Children being to be reftrained by the parents
only in vicious things, a look or nod only oui;ht
to corrcCI them when they do amifs.
Locke on Education.

jiddtj''ns Guiirdian.

0onne.

That to ctrforcal fuDitances could add
S{^ed aimoli fpirituai.

Loflte on Educationm

his flambeau, and Hand about the dead body.

Of this wc rind fome foot-ftcps in our law.
Which doth her root from God and nature take j

;

confidence of finning.
Tav/or.
After he has once been coire^ed for a lye, 'you
muft be fure never after to pardon it in him.

Mdijin.

alfo which

Corpo'real. adj. \_a>rporeus, Latin.]
not immaterial ; not
1. Having a body

Topunifh; tochaftife; to difcipliae.
Sad accidents, and a itateof afflidliDn.ij a fchool
of virtue; it ccrrcSh levity, and interrupts the

1.

Dryden'i Failles.
See where the mrpt of thy dead fon approaches.

are, and do, in regard of their own being ; butthit
coiicemeth them, as they arc linked

Bacon's Natural Hijiory,

Latin.]

There was the murdcr'd corps in covert laid.

:

Ten thoufaiid men ihe doth together draw.
Daviti*
And oi them a'l one corporat'wn make.
Co'rporature. »./. [iromcorfus, Lat.]
Z)/<S.
The ftate of being embodied.

junftion of bf.ims.

my poor corps, where my bones (hall be To CORRE'CT. -v. a. [ctrrigo, correaum,

common leal, one
head officer or more, and members, able, by their
common confcnt, to grant or receive, in law, any
even
thing within the compafs of their charter
as one man may do by law all things, that by law
and
bindeth
the
fucceflbrs,
forbidden
j
be is not
the Icing's charter to hare a

into a kind o( ccrporation amongft themfelves, and
Hooker,
of fociety with men.

The impreflion of colour worketh not but bjr
a cone of direft beams, or right line?, whereof
the bafis is in the objeiS, and the vertical point
In the eye ; fo as there is a corradiation, and con-

in virtue.

IVatt:.

One fault was too great lenity to her fcrvants, to

whom Are gave good counfel, bur too gentle 'Cor*
refli<in.

2.

Arb:itlmot. ..

Alteration to a better ftate ; the adl of

taking away faults; amendment.
AaoUiet fO( t,in anoUier age, may take the f:**,
libi»t)t

COR

COR

COR

my writings ; if, at Icaft, th.-y live long

With all his fault*, he fer< up to be an unU'cr-

Dryjen^i I-'ah^ Trtf.
enough to dcfervc corrf^iort,
3. That which is fubftitutcj in the place

reformer and toneBir ut abules, and a remover
cfgrievinccs.
Stvift.

Irtierty with

z.

o( any thing wrong.
CorreSiiins or improvcmentJ (houM be adjainet),

by way

of"

cftjbliming theit affertions not only with great
folidity, but fubmitting them alfo unto the icrBreiun.
reflim of future dlfco»cry.

Abatement of noxious qualities, by the

5.

ing.
1 remember

a perfon, who, by his ftyle and
feems to have been the corridur of a
hedge prefs in Little Britain, proceeding gradually
to an author.
Swift.

literature,

Derham.

In medicine.
Such an ingredient in a compofition, as guards

3.

addition of fomething contrary.

It happens very oddly, that the pope and

dulnefs ; do not -add
Corrcdkn, but as chymills purge the bad.

vial falts prevent the gri-^vous vellications

of rc-

matter.

finous purges, by dividing their particles, and pre-

^s

venting their adhefion to the inteflinal membranes
and as fpices and carminative feeds allill the operation of fome catharticks, by diHipating wind.
In making a medicine, fuch a thing is called a
comftor, which deftroys or^diminifiies a quality
that could not otherwife be difpenfei with ; thus
turpentines are comflcri of quickfilver, by defraying its fluxility, and making it capable of
mixture.
^incy.

Dixnt.

Corre'ction BR. n.f. [from corte^ion,]
One that has been in the houfe of corThis feems to be
reftion ; a jail-bird.
the meaning in Shake/peare.
have you foundly twinged for this, you
you filthy famifhfd corrtSlkner
blue-bottle rogue
Shatefpeari'i Ilerry IV.
I will

!

3.

Let fuch military perfons be afTured, and well
reputed of, rather than faflious and popular; holding alfo good eorrefpondcnce with the other great

men in the ftate.

relation, as father and Ton.

Mulberries are peroral, ctniU'ive of bilious al-

Co'rrf.late.

yi/iuihnoti

kali.

Srftable ; adapted ; agreeable ; anfwer-

It is one

thing for a father to ceafe to be a faand another for him
to ceafe to be {vf by the death of his fon t in this
the relation is at an end for want of a correlate.
South.

or obviating any thing amifs.

The hair, wool, feathers, and kales, which al!

Corre'lative.
Latin.]

Ray on thi Crtatka.
Humanly fpeaking, and according to the me-

Latin.] Objurgation ; chiding ; reprehenflon ; reproof.
If we mult b2 talking of other people's faults,
let it not be to defame, but to amend them, by
converting our dctraftion Into admonitio^i and fraGwernmcnt of the Tongue.
ternal corrtption.

To CORRESPO'ND.

fo that there remains
nothing but a dull arrt£}r,tfs, a piece without any
coofidcrable faults, but with few beauties.
DryJtn't Dvfrefnvy.
The foftnefs of the flefh, the delicacy of the
Aiapc, air, and i>ofture, and ihcnrrcflnifs of defign,
Addijon on Italy.
in this Aatuc, are incxprellible.
Late, very late, eorriBncJi grew our care,
breath'd
from
civil war.
tir'd
nation
When the
Pope.
Thofe pieceshave never before been printed from
the true copies, or with any tolerable degree of <or-

1.

[con

and re-

To fuit

;

to

anfwer;

to

be propor-

tionale.; to be adequate to ; to be adapt-

ed to 5 to fit.
The days, if one be compared with another fuc-

by adding to the polilhing ;

riUnefi.

i/. n.

fpondeo, Latin.]

[

curacy ; exaftnefs ; freedom from faults.
Too much labour often takes away the fpirit

,

Scutb.

the other.

Loike ca Eduiation*

Popii Bjpty on CrUicifm.
from corrcX,] Ac-

ceflively throughout the year, are found not to be

ficial

or mechanical equal meai'ures of time.

Holder on Time.
Words being but empty founds, any farther
than they are figns of our ideas, we cannot but
afleat to them, as they corrrfpond to thofe ideas we
Loehe.
have, but no farther than that.

2.

To keep up commerce with another by
alternate letters.

Stvift.

Correspo'n DENCE. !»/. [from eorreHe that amends, or altersi by punilli- Correspo'n dencv. J J'pond.'\

ment or animadverfion.
How many docs real urge rathel to do jullice on
fome fins, than to forbear all fin! How many
xatber to be cerreiltn than pradlifTS of religion.

Priam's fix gates i' th' city, with niaily liaples,

And correfponfve and fulfilling bolts,
Sperre up tile fons of Troy.
Sbakifpcare's Trcilui and Crefjida*

CO'RRIDOR. n.f.
1

[French.]
[In fortification.] The covert way lying

round the wholfe compafs of the fortifications of a place.
2,

[In archiiediure.]

I. Relation; reciprocal adaptation of one
thing to another.

Between the law of their heavenly operations',
and :hc adiions of men in this our llit« of moruli;y, fuch correjpondtttu there is as makcih it ex-

A gallery or long ifle

round about a building, leading to feveral cJiambers at a dillance from each
other,
Harris.
There is fomething very noble in the amphitheatre, though the high wall and corridi-rs that went
round it are almaft intircly ruiilcd. Addijon on Italy.

Co'rrigible. adj. [from corrigo, Lat.f
That which may be altered or amended.
1
2. He who is a proper objeft of puniihment ; puniihable.
He wa» taken up very fliort, and adjudged corrigible for fuch prefumptuous language,

equal, and will not jufily correjpcnd W\^'\ any arti-

Corre'ctor. It./, [frorn corred."]
I.

Anlwerable ; adapted to any thing.

Giving is a relative aAion, and fo requires a
giving, on one part, tranffers no property, unlcfs there be an accepting on

Such lays as neither ebb nor How,

/

and receive from him all his letters from and to
aM his correfpondentt at home and abroad.
Denbam's Dedtcation,
Correspo'nsive, adj. [from correj}ond.'\^

for«/tfrif ^ to anfwer it :

and participles, adverbs and prcpofitions are, fpeak
as properly and as corrcBly as mod gentlemen who
have been bred up in the ordinary methods of

«.

intelligence or commerce is kept up by
mutual meflages or letters.
He was pleafcd to command me to fend to him,

relation,

Father and fon, hu(band and wife, and fuch

curately ; exaftly ; without faults.
There are ladie , without knowing what tcnfes

.

Five correfptndent are to earth aflignM, Oryd. Ovid.

Correspo'n DENT, n.f. One with whom

[con and rdativus,

Corre'lativeness. n.f. [from correlati've.'\
The ftate of being correlative.
AcCorre'ption. n.f. \corripk, correpium,

Corre£fiy cold, and regularly low.

Hooker.

And as five zones th* etherial regions bind,

other arrtlatitje terms, feem nearly to belong one
South.
to another.

2. Limitation ; reftriflion.
There feems to be fuch an inllancc in the regimen which the human foul excrcifeth in rela-<
tion to the body, that, with certain ccrjt^'fves and
exceptions, may give fome kind of explication or
Halt' 1 Origin cf Mantml.
adumbration thereof.

Co R R e'c T N E s s

adj.

Having a reciprocal

fo that the exiftence of one in a particular Hate depends upon the exillence
of another.

thod of the world, and the little correflhvei fupplicd
by art and difciplinc, itfeldom fails but an ill principle has its courfci and nature makes good its
Soulb's Sirmpm,
blow.

grammar fchools.

One that Hands in

ther, by calling off his fon ;

.

•Corre'ctly. ad-v. [from correS.]

able.
V/hat good or evil is there under the fun, what
aftion eorrefpcndent or repugnant unto the law
which God hath impofed upon his creatures, but
in or upon it God doth work, according to the
law which himfelf bath eternally purpofed to keep.

the oppofite relation.

Corre'ctive. »./.
That which has the power of altering
1
animals of prey do fwallow, are a feafonabic and
BCcelTary orrtBive, to prevent their greedinefs from
filling tliemfclves with too fucculent a food.

7t./.

Bacon,

Correspo'n DENT. adj. [from correfPond.]

To have a reciprocal

relatus, Latin.]

bad qualities.

Addijor..

interchange of offices or

Friendfliip;
civilities.

Corre'ctive. a<^'. [from correS.] Hav- To CO'RRELATE. <w. n. [from fanand
ing the power to alter or obviate any

fbould

I

have the fame thought much about the fame time
my enemies will be apt to fay, that we hold a cerrefpindence together, and aft by concert in this

againfl or abates the force of another; as the lixi-

To make ambitious, wholefome, do not take

A dram of country

as the i-orrir^^or of the prcfs, that

amends the errours committed in print-

ff^atti,

Reprehenflon ; animadverfion.
They proceed with judgment and ingenuity,

4.

and their habitudes, CDrrefpi.ndenciesy and rclatiors
Locke.
keep the fame to one another,
2. Intercourfe ; reciprocal intelligence.
I had difcovcrcd thofe uniawful correjpotidenciet
they had ufed, and engagements they had made to
f^i'g Cbarla%
embroil my kingdoms,
Sure the villains hold a eorrefpondcnce
With the enemy, and thus they would betray us.

He that revlfes any thing to free it from
faults';

note or commentary, in their prapcr

places.

pedient to know in fome fort the one, fur the
hi.oi.er.
other's mote perfeft direflion.
Whatever we fancy, things keep their courfc

fa!

H.tml s Vocal Forifi.
3. Correftive ;

having the power to cor-

Not proper, nor ufed.
Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our
wills are gardeners ; fo that. If we will either have
reft.

it ileril with idlenefs, or manured with induftry,
the power and corrigible authority of this lies in

our will,

Shakifpearc' s Othello.

CoR R I'v A L. n.f. [con and ri'vaJ.} Rival ;
competitor.
They had govcrnoure commonly out of the two
families of the Gcraldincs and Butlers, both ad.
verfarics and corrivals one agaiuft the other.

Sptnfcr on Ireland.

He, that doth redeem her thence, might wear
Without lorrivalM her dignities. Shakefp. H. IV.

CoRRl'vALRy.

COR
CoRRi'vAr.Rr.

COR

[from cim-val.]

h. /.

Competition ; oppofition.
Cbrro'borant. a,/j. [from eorniorate.]

Brc-wn's Vulgar Errcurs.

Co'rrody. n./. [from corrode, Latin.] A

There be d:\cri forts o* bracelets fit to comfort

for fome other than the original purpofe.

[con and

a.

Machiavel well noteth, though in an ill-favoured
in/lance, there ib no trufting to the force of nature,
nor to the bravery of words, except it be corroborote

-bvcuUom.
To ilrengthen ; to make flrong.

meaner men, ordered cirnJks and penfioni to their
chaplains and fervants out of churches.

Kvgay. of foreign courts, and obfcivation on

J'erent natures of people,

well and duly exercifcd grows
the nerves of the body are carrUioraitd

thereby.

fy^„,^

Corroboration, n. /. [from corroborate.']
The aft of fticngtheningor confirming;

confirmatioa

by fome addi-

tional fecurity ; addition of ftrength.

bodies moft ftrongly compared, as bones and metals ;
lo that the mcnftruums here employed
have a confiderable moment or force. Thefe liquors, whether acid or urinous, are nothing but

into wrinkles by cold, or any
other caufe.
%«fy.
The cramp Cometh of contraftion of finevvs
it

in

a little

particles of the body to be diflblved :

the attraflion is ftronger than in other folutions
and the motion, which is always proportional
to
the attraftion, is more violent
lo that we

Statefmeii jurgc vice with vice, and irny

•

Boyh an Cclcurs.

The nature of mankmd, left to itfcif, would
fnon have fallen into diflojution, without
the
.

in-

ceflant and cirrodtng invafions of lo long

a time.

^^'''''
„
"''i™ '/MankM.
„
Hannib.i| the Pyreneans

part,

And itrepy Alps, the mounds that nature call
And with cirroit'wg juices, as he went,

~\m corrojtcn and dllTolution of bodies, even toe

1.

Cirinthians,xv, 33,
All that have mifcarried
I

By underhand, corrupted, foul injuftice.
Shakefpeare's RichardUl.
1 have heard
a

the

be pre-

Thomfin't Spring.

Love's^paradife.

they behold that which they reverence is

when

Ha v

oppugned.

ing the power of corroding or
wafting
any thing away.

CoRROBiBi'MTy. tt./. [from corrodihle.\

any thing away, as the flefti of an ulcer.
He meant his corrofives to apply.
And with ftria diet tame his ftubborn malady.

he quality of being corrofible
poffi;
bility to be confuiiied by a mcnftruum.

'I

.

adj. [ from corrode.

ble to be coiifuraed or corroded.

]

Poffi.

F^iry S^ucen,
2.

That which has the power of fretting,
or of giving pain.

thro' the world pro-

claim,

That not to bf corrupted is the (liaime.

P'opt,

To fpoil ; to do mifchief.

3.

Ti CoRRu'pT.

'v.n. Tobcccme putrid;
to grow rotten ; to putrefy j to lofe
pu-

Hioicr,

CORRO'SIVE. n. /.
1. That which has the quality
of wafting

but if he ftart,

Locke.

Hear the black trumpet

ceremonies be a corrofive
to fuch as oppugn them, undoubtedly
to fuch as
maintain them it can be no great pleafure,

]

j

of a anupted heart.
f^kdkejpeares Merry mves (fIVmlJir.

flefl)

?'?<•«•

Having the quality to fret or vex.
It the maintenance of

1k,mJ,n-f Sf^h^.

Shakcj^carc s Cotii/anut.

it, though he does not corrupt the
fountains of
knowledge, which arc in things, yet he flops tha

Corrofive famine waits, and kills the year.

5>hooM jealoufj its venom once ditVulc,
Cwrodhg cvjry thought, and blading all

time to corrupt
out with her

fallen

Language being the conduit whereby men convey their knowledge, he that makes an ill ufe
of

Grnu's Cofmokgia.

.

flic 's

And turn him to no pain
It is the

7 ha facred fons of vengeance, on whole courlc,

2.

'

If he be chafte, the flame will back defcend.

cipitated, fo as Co appear again in its own
form.
_,

faid, the fitteft

man's wife, is when

huftiand.

power of confuming or

quors into invilible parts, yet may preliaitly

it

But ftay, I fmell a man of middle earth
With trial fire touch me his ftnger-end ;

Gold, after it has been divided by corrofive li-

R^y "<• the CreaiKti.

turning acrimonious, corr.dri the
vcfTels, producing almoft all
the difeafes of tlie
inflammatory kind.
^rbuthn.,.

Having

i CorinihianSf xi. 3.

*,

Evil communications corrupt good manners.

wearing away.

blood

I

corrupted hom the fimplicity that is in Chrift.

ently.]

m

Cokio'dekt. er.^j. [ from corrotfe.

to deftroy integrity j to

to bribe.
I fear leaft by any means, as the ferpent
beguiled
Eve through his fubtilty, fo your minds Ihould be

CoRRo'siVE.ai^', [from forra^ff, Latin. It
was anciently pronounced with the accent on the firft fyllable, now indiffer-

DryJcn'i ytivcnaU
. .
vn.
.« .
Fiflies, Which ECithcrchew their
meat, nor grind
^
It
their ftomachs, do, by a diflblvcnt
liquor there
provided, ccrrcde and reduce it into a chylus.
.

;

vitiate ;

fVoothvard.

A paflage through the living lock he rent.

.

to infeft.

To deprave

2.

merely by the aftion of water
upon them j the air being lo far from injuring and
preying upon the bodies it environs, that it
contributes to their fecurity and ptefcrvation.

•

[corrumpo, corrupt

To turn from « found to a putrefcent
ftate ;

,

,

a,

It.

to the air, is caufed

aqua-fortij currcdmg coppcrj
which IS It that gives the colour to verdigreafe,
is
Ws>nt to reduce it to a green-blue folution.

Co R R o' D B L E

1.

moft folid and durable, which is vulgarly alcribcd

'*'^'

Floyer on the Humours,

lus, Latin.]

Btiov'! Natural HiJIcry.

corrode

;

For f™ ill thralls not them, but they tame ill,
And make her do much good againft her will.

1 he

To CORRU'PT.

motion is in fuch a man-

by afecret malignity and enmity to nature.

The bad with bad, a fpidcr with a toad

_.

irri.

tatcd by Iharp humours.

A kind of poifon workcth either by ctrr-:Jim, or

wear away gradually.

.,

The pain of the folid parts is the corrugation or
_
violent agitation of fibres, when the fpirits are

ner increafcd, it fljould drive the falts into
the
pores of tlie bodies, and open and loofen
their
cohefion, though ever fo firm.
xh'in.y,

to prey upon ; to confume ; to

^

Contrat'tion into wrinkles.

may

:

calily conceive, when the

To CORRO'DE. -v. a. [corrodo. Latin.]
To eat away by degrees, as a men-

_,

Bacon's Natural iiijlory.

Corruca'tjon. n.f. [from corrugate.'^

fo when the
more folid bodies are put into faline menftruums,

tr.J.man, Surgtr}.

,y^. ''?'"'

:

Cometh either by cold or drynefs ; for cold
and
drynefs do both of them contraft and corrugate.

phlegm ; therefore thefe

In the cure of an ulcer, with a moift intemperics, as the heart is weakened by too much
humidity, you are to mix corrdoraikiei of an aftringent faculty j and the uiccr alfo ncquircth to

ftruura ;

To wrinkle or purfe up, as the fltin is

drawn

derable quantity

be

^

wrinkles.

To CO'RRUGATE. <v. a. [cormgo, Lat.]

H.iving the power of incrcaftng ftrength.

<'"«'•

[

]
Having the power of contrafting into

being folid, and' confcquently containing a confiof matter, do both attraft one
another more, and are alfj more attrafted by the

Bacan't llcitry VII.

Cor Ro'borative. at^'. [from corroborate.]

what languid rclifli retaining to bitternefs.
Boyle.
R R u c A N T . adj.
from corrugate.

Carrofion is a particular fpecies of dilTolution of
bodies, either by an acid or a filine meniVruum.
It is almoft wholly deligneJ for the refolution of

falts diflblved

The lady herlelf procured a bull, for the better
etrrtioratiim of the marriage.

a fome-

C

degrees,

As any limb

Dcnne.

Saltpetre betrays upon the tongue no
heat nor
corrofivcrfi at all, butcoldnefs, mixt with

:

CoRRo'sioN. »./
power of eating or wearing away by

much excited and awaked his fpjriu, and amiatarid his judgment.
Wtmn.

of corroding or eating

Corrofivcntfi, or interne cold or heat.

rather corDiet.
[ra/vWij, Latin.]
The

rodibility.

quality

We do infufe, to what he meant for meat,

SufceptibiJity of corrofion

the Jif-

ftronger,

The

CoRRo'siBLENESs. n. J. [itom corroftble.]

and rules of government,

Boyle on Saltpelre,

,

away; acrimony.

ought to be corrodihk.

derived, means to

quicken and cirnhorait the imagination, and means
to repeat it and refrefli it.
Baan.
It was faid that the prince himfelf had,
by the

,

With the power of corrofion,
CoRRo'siVENEss. n.f. [{tovti corro/tve.]

CoRRo'siBLE. adj. [from corrode.] Poilible
to be confumed by a menllruum. This

To fortify imagination there be three ways ; the
is

„,..

2.

j^yliffp'i Parcrg'^n.

^^„„,

2.

authority v^he^ce the belief

ShaW/pean's HerryVI,
„
,
(..ORRo siVELY. ad-v. [from
corrofive.]
I. Like a corrofive.
At firft it tailed fomewhat corrofniely.

Belides thefe floating burgelies of the ocean,
there are certain flying citizens of the air, which
prefcribe for a corrojy therein.
CarLiv.
In thofe days even noble perfons, and other

Latin.]
To confirm ; to eftabli/h.

ri>boro,

1.

H.VU

defalcation from an allowance or falary,

»he fpirits; and they be of three intentions, refrigerant, corrshnram, and aperient. Bacon' t Nat. Ill/l.
^v.

Such fpeeches favour not of God in fc!m' that
ufcth them; and unto vu-tuoudy
difpofed minds
they are grievous coyrafivii.
Hookfr,
Away ! though parting be a fretful corrcfive.
It IS applied to a dcathful
wound. Siakeff,
Care is no cure, but rather ecrro/ve,
For things that are not to be remedied.

communicable unto that element.

Having the power to give ftrength.

To CORRO'BORATE.

COR

Metal;, although ecrroJihU by Waters, yet will
not fuftcr a liquation from the powerfulleft heat

rity.

The aptnefs or propenfion of air or wat<'r ta
corrupt or putrefy, no doubt, is to be found before
it

break forth into manifeft efll<l» of difcalcs,

Ban.

blafting, or the like.

CoRRu'pT. adj. [from To corrupt.]
I.

Spoiled; tainted; vitiated in
lititi.

its

qonI

3 H

Ceaite

COR

COR
.

FciJinand,

who with fuch caruft

To keep mine honour from corruption.

antl pcftilcnt

biead wouU feed them.

But fuch an hoaeft chronlckr as Griffith.

Kn}!hi.
did rot,

flrfli

Air.enJment icady iHll at hand

Efbffinni, iv. ij.
edifjing.
Corrupt, nrruft, and tainted in deiiic. Sbjkejf>.
1
know,
which in tliis
Thtfe kind of knaves

R'j.'eigb's Uijiory.

Hbah/feare't King I.ar.
Some, who have been cerrupl in their morals,
liavc

theit

Siulb's Scrmtm.

CoRRu'pTER. n. / [from corrupt.]

He

that taints or vitiates ; he that leffens
purity or integrity.

Away, away, ccrru/ftrj of my faith! SbaUf/j.
From the vanity of the Greeks, the arruftcis
of all truth, who without all ground of certainty
vaunt tlieir antiquity, came the errour firll of all.

man attainted of felony, ortreafon, and Co'rticated. at/J. [from ccrticatut, Lato his iffue ; for as he lofeth all to the
prince, or other lord of the fee, fo his

Raltigb'i Hjflcry e/ibt JVoHd.

Addifon.

deed of natural religion, the Jefuits.
1

ble.]

.

». /.

[from corrupti-

uf things would long fince have been difl'ulved.

You muft draw the horfe in his career with
his manage, and turn, doing the corvetto a.nd leap-

CORU'SC.^NT.
Cori'sca'tion.
Flafti ;

The borders with corrupikfs myrrh are crown'd.

ru/cathn and explofion.

1 .

nerals, and foroetimes take fire with a fuddcn co-

Or belch in thunder, or in lightning blaze ^

Why nimble coru/catior.s ftrikc tl^e eye.

;

;

And bold tornados biufter in the ficy.

vice ; without integrity.

Garth's Dijpen/iitorf,

O that cllatcs, degrees, and offices.

Cory'mbiated. adj.

Were not deriv'd crruptly ! that clear honour
Were purchased by the merit of the wearer. Sbak.

purity.

quality of corruption ; putrefcence ; vice.

feize merchants.

the feparation of their parts,
Wickednefs ; perverfion of principles

a,

lofs of integrity.
morality, bcfidcs the natural corPrecepts
ruption of our tempers, which makes us averfc to
tbem, are fo abftradted from i-icas of fenfe, that
they feldom get an opportunity for defcriptions and
Mdijcn on tbe CcorgUki.
images.
Amidft corruption, luxury, and rage,
ot

Still leave (bme ancient virtues to our age.

Pope.

Putrel'cence.

3.

The wife contriver, on his end intent.
Careful this fatal enour to prevent,
And keep the waters from corrupii'.n free,
Mix'd them with fait, and fcafon'd all the fea.

and fero, Lat.] Bearing fruit or berries

A dead body; a carcafe :
word.

a poetical

CORY'MBUS. n.f. [Larin.]
amongft modern botanifts, it is ulcd for a campounded difcous flower, whofc feeds are not pappous, or do not fly away in down ; fuch ar« th«
flowrrsof daifies, and common marygold. Sjiiticy,

A ftream of coal-black blood forth gufiied from
her cor/e.
Set down the cor/e ; or, by faint Paul,
make a ccrfe of him that difobcys.

tt. /.
[from xctrxUor, a
and jiavTSM, divination.] The art
A
of divination by means of a fieve.
very ancient praftice, mentioned by
Theocritus, and dill ufed in fome parts
of England, to find out perfons unknown.
Chambers,

fieve,

He reft her hateful head, without rcmorfe;
Spenfer.

I'll

Shjitfpeare's Richard l\l.

Cose'cant. n.f. [In geometry.]

.'

That thou, dead cor/e, again in complete ftcel
Revifit'ft thus the glimpfes of the moon.
Making night hideous ?
Shakefpeare's Hamlet.
Here lay him down, my friends,
Full in my fight, that 1 m?y view at leifure

The bloody rcr/.-, and count thofe glorious wounds.
JJdifon.

Co'rselet. ». /

:

Cosci'nom ANCY.

That from her body, full of filthy fin,

What may this mean

Coiymhifenus plants are di/tinguiflied into fuch
as the fun-flt wcr ; and
fuch as have a n.iked fiower, as the bemp-agrim")ny, and mugwort
to which are added (bofc
a-kin hereunto, fuch as fcabijus, ccaf.*I, tlvltir,
Quincy.
and the like.
as have a radiate flo%ver,

Amorgil the ancient botahilh, it was ufed to

[cor/eUt, French.]

A

4.

Matter or pus in a fore.

armour for the forepart of the
body.
Some (hlrts of maile, fome coafs of plate put on,

5.

The tendency to a worXe ftate.

Somi: dju'd a cuiiMc, lonie a eorjlei bright.

BiMkmore.

corjntius

exprcfs the bunches or cluftcrs of berries of ivy ;

For lie was ftrong, and of fo mighty cerfe.
As ever wielded fpear in warlike hand.
Spenfer.
2.

Dia.

Corymbi'ferous. aJj, [from
in bunches.

We have corruptly contraQed moft names, both
Carr.den^s Rtmaim.
of men and places.

the life of all h-s blood

[corymLui, Latin.]

Garnifhed with branches of berries.

V/e have dealt very corruptly againll thee, and
have not kept the commandments. Nehemiab, \. 7.
improperly ; contrary to
z. Vitioufly ;

vitiated.

Ntivton't Opiieks,

How beat and moillure mingle in a mafs.

CoRRu'pTlBi.Y. ailv. \_iram. corriipttbh\'\ Corse, n.f. [«;•//, French.]
In fuch a manner as to be corrupted, or 1. A body. Not in ufe.

.

[ccru/catio, Latin.]

«./."

quick vibration of light.

We may learn that fulphureous lleams abound

CO'RSAIR. n. /. [French.] A pirate j
one who profeffes to fcour the fea, and

Sbaiefpeare^s King Lear,

]

We fee that lightnings and coru/catiom, which

Cor Ru'pT NESS. n.f. [from corrupt.] The

CoRRu'pTiON. «./. [cerruptio, Latin.]
The principle by which bodies tend to
I

«rir/?e, J.atin.

are near at hand, yield no found.

TllUtfon.

It is too late ;

[

Glittering by flafhes ; flafliing.

of external depravation
poffib* to be tiiinted or vitiated.
CoKRti'PT! BLENEss. n./. [from corrufSufccptibility of corruption.
tibh."]

Is touched corruptibly.

adj.

in the bowe'.s of the earth, and ferment with mi-

Sufceptible

»,

Peacbam en Dranving,

ing.

In-

CoRRu'pTL^-. citfv. [from corrupt.]
with
With corruption
with taint

pri>b^le, that, in an infinite duration, this frame

Brovm.

or Jiair.

fufceptible of corruption ; undecaying.
All around

Our ctrruft'tbU bodies could never live the life

nrrufiHU through dlffipation.
Harvey on Conjumptions.
The fcveral parts of which the world confifts
leing in their nature rcrruftiile, it is more than

kind of lizard, a quadruped

Bacon's Natural Hi/lory.

CoRRu'pTLESs. «i//. [from corrupt.]

Dryden.

ia

a

Co'rticose. aJj. [from corticefus, Lat.]
Full of bark.
DiB.
Corve'tto. n.f. The curvet.

a fettled

by natural

they fhall live, were it not that they arc joined
with his body whicli is incorruptible, and that his
Hc^ier.
is in ours as a caufc of immortality.
It is i devouring corruption of the cflential mixchiefly
of
an
oily
moillure,
confiding
ture, which,

is

corticated and depilous ; that is, without wool, fur,

Kay on tbe Creation.

Poflibility to be corrupted.

Sufceptible of deftruftion
decay, or without violence.

Refembling the bark of a tree.

Th'S animal

habitude ujito the corruptive
Brcwni yulgar Errcuri.
originals.
It fliould be endued with an acid ferment, or
fome corruptive quality, for fo fpcedy a dlU'ululion
of the meat and preparation of the chyle.

Carrying

CoRRu'pTtBLE. aiij. [from carrw//,]
I.

tin.]

cannot be heir to him, or to any
other anceilor, of whom they might have
cLiimed by him ; and if he were noble,
or a gentleman, he and his children are
made ignoble and ungentle, in' refpeft
Con/jell.
of the father.
CoRRu'pTivE. fl<^'. [from corrupt.] Having the quality of tainting or vitiating.

Thofe great corrupters of Chriftianity, and in-

Co R R u P T 1 B j'l. T Y

extremities form a httle gland (>U
make the cortical part

of thetrain), terminating in two little vcfl'ek.
Cheyne'i PHlo/ophical Principlel,

An infeftion growing to a

iffue

Than twenty filky ducking obfcrvants.
to

[In law.]

lail

[cortex,

thefe little glands together

Breretvood on Languages

pbinr.cfj

Harbour more craft, and more (errufter ends,

Their

Greek torguf is become much altered.
7.

Prior,

bark, Lat.J
Barky ; belonging to the outer part
belonging to the rind ; outward.

AU thafe four kinds of corruption are very common in their language; for which reafons the

Lst no ccrt'jfii commurication proceed out of
your mouth, but tlut whitli is good to the ufc of

infinitely folicltous

CO'RTICAL. atij.

other languages, received new and diftcring names.

without integrity.

children pioufly brought up.

Againft their very cor/etett beat.

The region luth by cor.queft, and corruption of

did wait,

Thit foon ia him w js Icl't no ctrruft jot. Spcrfer.
Vuious ; tainted with wickedneis ;

have yet been

The firings of which, in battie's heat,

Caufe, or means, of depravation.

i.

To pluck it out with p'ntcis fiery hot,
I.

Have their hearts hung extremely high j

ShaKeJfcjre's HenryVWl.

2.,Unfound ; putrid.
As luiKitluous

They lafli, they foin, theypafs, they ftrjve totorc
Their cor/lets, and their thinneil pans explore.
Drjdtn.
But heroes, who o'crcomc or die.

After my death I wifli no other herald*
No other fpeaker of my living aflions.

Coarfc hoary mnuldcJ brcaJ the foldicrs thruft
upon the points of their fpears, railing againft

COS

'

light

Fair/'.

The

fecant of an arch, which is the complement of another to ninety degrees.

Harris.

Co'sHEHiNC.

n.f. [Irilh.]

C'/hcrings were Vifitations

and progrefTcs made

by the loid and his followers among his tenants
wherein he did eat them (as the Knglilh proverb
is) out of houTe and home.
Davits,
',

Co'stER.

n.J',

[from

coufer, old

French,

A

botcher.
Hanmer.
to few.]
Uo ybu make aa alchoufe of oiy laay's hoofe,
that

COS

COT

though it is not unlikely that the French
coujicr comes from the Latin.]
1. The price of any thing.

occalioning head-aches, fevers, lofs of appetite, and
dii^urbancc of concof^ion.
harmry.
Coftminefs has ill effeils, and is hard to be dealt
witli by phjfick ; pu-.ging medicines rather increafing than removing the evil.
Lech on Educati-^ji.

COS
tkat ye fqaeak out your cojier catches, without any
nicigation or remorfc of voice
StaUJftare'i T-xdftb Night.
.'

Co'siNE. »./. [In -eometry.] The right
fine of an arch, which is the complc-

Sumptuoufiiefs ; luxury.

2.

The city woman bears
The c'jfi of princes on unw^irthy ihoulders.

ment of another to ninety degrees.
Harris.

Cosme'tick. adj.

[koo'/xiitikc?.]

Let foreign princes vainly boaft
The rude effefts of pride and ajl
Of vafter fabricks, to which they
Contribute nothing but the pay.

Having

the power of improving beaoty ; beautifying.

No better cofmaicks than a fevere temperance
and parity, mudefly and humility, a gracious
temper and calmnefs of fpirit ; no true beauty
without the fign-iturc! of thefe graces in the very

•

While he found his daughter maintained without his coflf he waa content to be deaf to any noife
Sidnty.
of infamy.
1 laall never hold that man my friend,
Wliofe tongue (hall alk me for one penny ct^.

Firit, rob'd in white, the rymph intent adores.

With head uncover'J, the rofirnuk pow'rt.

Though
Waller.

To ranfom home revolted Mortimer. Shak.H.lV.

Pcft.

Have we eaten at all of the king's <-^? or hath

CO'SMICAL. adj. [xoVfi©..]

be given us any gift {

To be at charge of fuch another.

fame degree of the ediptitU wherein the fun
Brncn't Vulgar Erroun.
abideth.

Co'sMiCAiLY. adv. [from co/micaL]
With the fun not acronycally.
;

From the riiing of this ftar, not ccjfmkaHy, that
with the fun, but heliacally, th^t is, its emerfrom the rays of the fun, the ancients comBrmvn.
puted their canicular days.
fion

».

/

[xi^iA^'

Grange to

fee

:

and yom]

The rife or birth of the world ; the cre-

Lois ; fine ; detriment.

4.

ation.

is

DryiUn'j Fables,
Fourteen thoufand pounds arc paid' by Wood for
what were liis other
the purchafe of his patent
viliblc ">P't I know not ; what tus latent, is varioufly conje^ured.
Szvift.

is,

CosMo'coNY.

Cra/haiu.

any eccldiaftical pile, not
by ecclefiadical rcfi and influence, rifing above
ground j efpecially in an age in which men's
mouthi are open againft the church, but their
hands ftut towards it.
Scutb*i Sermcrs.
He whofc talc is beft, and pleafes moif,
Should win his fupper at our common ccjf.
It

from geographer,

What they had fondly wi/hed, proved afterwards to their rcy?j mer true.
KrMi's II fiery rf tbe Turks.
To Cost. v. n, pret. ccft ; particip. re/?.

The ancient cufmipafhtrt do plate the divlfion

\cotiJier, f r.] To be bought for ; to be
had at a price.
The dagger and poifon are always in readinefs j

Cosmo'grapher. n./. [Koo-f^d* and y^aOne who writes a dcfcription of
pu.]
the world ;
who defcribes the fituation of particular
countries.
diftindl

of the call and weAern hemifpticrc, that is, the
firft term of longitude, in the Canary or Fortunate
Iflands, conceiving thefe parts the extreme^ haBniun'i Vulgar Erroun
bitations weftwatd.

but to bring the aftion to extremity, and then recover all, will require the ait of a writer, and rc^
'him many a pang.
Dryden.

Co'&T K\.. adj. [(-«/?<!, Lat. a rib.] Belong*

Relating to the general defcrip-

tion of the v/orld.

CoJMocR a'i-hically. adi).

[from cofIn a manner relating to
the fcience by which the ftru(flure of the
world is difcovcred and defcribed.
The terrella, or fphcrlcal magnet, t'ojMi'grafliimographkal.^

talhj fct out with circles of the globe.

tii»ft

from geography, which delivers
and boundaries of parti-

cular countries.
Here it mijhc fee the w^rld without travel ;

Many country vicars are driven to ihifts

CO'STIVE.

l!'

thou wilt bewail my wwful te'-n,
rive yonJ' cyjei for thy pa.n.

COST. n./. [i<j/, Dutch.

Sftn'rr.

As this word is

adj.

{conjlipatus,

Lat. t6n-

Bound in

the body ;

having the ex-

mo!i ujl/y piece of work on the earth, when completed.

Addijon.

He is here fpeaking of Paradifc, which he reprefents as a moft charming and delightful placp

abounding with things not only uleful and convenient, but even the moit rare and valuable, the
moll coftly and defirable.
IVadivard's Nat. HiJI.

Co'sTMARY. ».yr

Lat.]

[refills,

An herb.

Co'sTREL. n./. [fuppofed to be derived

A bottle.

from ccjler.]

Skinner.

Cot. T At the end of the namesof places.
Cote. > come generally from the Saxon
Coat, j cor, a cottnge.
Cibjhn,

A

COT. «. /.

[cot. Sax. cii-t, Welili.]
fmall houfe ; a cottage ; a hut ; a meaa
habitation.

What lliat ufage meant.
Which in her cot Ihc daily pradtifcd. Fairy ^..cen.
Bcfldes, his ror, his flocks, and baunds of feed.

Are now on falc

;

and at our ih^ep lot now.

By rcafon of his abfcnce, there is nothing
That you will feed on. Slakcjjieare's A: ycu lihe if.
Hezekiah made himfelf iiaib for all manner of

the body grows njhve, and the excrements of ihf
\My white.
Brt/wiu

While faftcr than hij ee/live brain indites,
Philo's quick h.and in flowing letters write;;
His cafe appetrs to me like honcft Teague's,

When he wa» run away with by his k^i.

Prior,

j

Dryd, Baucis and Philemor:.

Clay in dry Icafnns is [ojltvif hardening with the
fim and wind, till unlockcU by induiUy, fo .is tu
ad.-nit of the air and heavenly influences.
Afortimer'i Hujbandry

Co'jTivENES?. »./. [from cojii've J The
Aate of the body in which excretion is
obftruflcd.

derived to U5 from the Latin

the gutt aQd mcf<:nteiy into all parts of

fiifpcrfcs maligfl putrid

I'eviiti,

Cot. n./. An abridgment of fo/f»f<7».
Cota'noent. »./ [In geometry.] The
tangent of an arch which is the comr
plejnent of another to ninety degrees.
Hitrris.

Tc Cote. v. a. This word, which 1 have
found only in Chapman, feems to fignify the lame as To leave libind, Tt
overfaj's.

Had more ground bc';n allow'd the race, and c»:ci
far his fteeds.

Cote'mpor AR Y.

fumes out of
tlic

body.

adj.

Ch.ipmani Iliads.
[ctn and Umpus,

Latin.] Livit\g at the fame lime ; coetaneous ; contemporary.
What would not, to a rational man, coter^*.rary with the

Clofe ; unpermeable.

{.Afiiv^r.ijt

1 ChronicUif xxxii. 28*

A ftately temple flioots within the fiiics

Words her worth had prov'd with deed*,

When the palfag; of the gait becomes obftruftcd,

found in the remoteft Teutonick dialcfts,
even in tltc Iflandtck, it u not probably
caujio ;

The naufeous pleafures of the J* eat.
Drydir.
The chapel of St. Laurence will be perhaps th^

cretions obftruftcd.

2.

I iSall thee

and

/ifii.Fr.]

;

dim.

;

greedy patrons ho!d us to fuch conditions,
they will make us turn ecjiard mongers", grafiets,
or IcU ale.
Burton on Mt!ai:chdy.

Cosmopo'litan. I rt./. [»icrft'&- and tsroCo?Mo'poLiTB. 3 ^irn;.] A clti/.en of
one who is at home ia every
tlv: world

tlic

An apple round and bulky like the head.
if our

1

A lamb brought np without

Sbaieffcarc'i Rkbard H\,

fword.

Sautt.

Co'ssF.T.fl./.

Sbakejpeares llamlst.

At poor I'iiilennn's cot to take a bed.

Take him over the eijlard with the belt of thy

it

place.

j

As Jove vouchfaf'd on Ida's top, 'tis faid,

A head.

1.

Win; a klTer I'chemc of the creation, nature contttCtci, a little t^'migrafhy, or map uf the uniTfgie.

thy habit as thy pujle can buy.

tiles of gold.

Co'sTARD. n. /. [from cofier, a head ]

tituation

ttte

C'Jily

But nut expreft in fancy rich, not gaudy ;
For the apparel oft proclaims the man.

The crotchets of their est in columns rife ;
The pavement, polifli'd marble they behold ;
The gates with fculpture grac'd, the fpires and

and

The fcience of the general
y^a^u. ]
lyftem or afTeflious of the world : dif-

expenfive ; of a high price.

beafls, and cui for flocks.

2.

[«oV^.».

G lawille" s Scefjist
Co'sTLY. ad/, [from fc/?.] Sumptuous ;

Hereby are excluded all cetaceous and cartilaginous fiihes ; many peftinal, whofe ribs are it£blineal ; and many r^j/, which hive their ribs embowed.
Brcwns Vulgar Etriujs.

Brvion^t Vulgar ErrBurj.

COSMO'GRAPHY. «./.

Nor have tiie frugaller fons of fortune any rcafon to objeft the cojiyirwj:^ j fince they fiet^ucntly pay
dearer for Icfs advantageous pleafures.

ing to the ribs.

Cosmocra'phical. adj. [from cofmografhy.'\

curious cofUlnrfs, yet with
Sidney.

entertained nie,

And, to be great indeed, forget

!

The n/rrical afccnfun of a ftar we term that,
when it arifeth together with the fun, or in the

it

Leave for a while thy ccjily cuuntry-f;:at j

!

Put poor nature to fuch ccji ?
O 'twill undo our common mother.

cronycal.

not with

i Samuel, xiz. 42.

And wilt thou, O cruel boaft

Relating to the world.
2. Riftng or fetting with the fun; not a1

Sump-

n.f. [from riy?/)'.]
tuoufnefs ; expeiifivenefs.

cleanly fufficiency,

3. Charge ; expence.

Ray on ibt Criaticn.

countenance.

Co'sTLiNEss.
Shah.

ble, is

firil

vuuc!\cr, have appearc3 prol-a-

now ufcd as crrtain, becauic levetal have

lince, from him, faid it one after another.

I.o:ir.

Co'TtAND. n.f. [cot and land.]

Land

appendant to a cottage.

Co'TCiUEAN.

«. /.
[probably from. r«French.] A man who bufies himfelf with women's all'ajrs.
Look to the bak'd nieacs, good Angelica
jiiin,

Sp;u"C

not for colt.

'

3

H »

—— G«,

COT

c o u

Co, go, you titquun, go
Get you to bed.
Skaktjftarc'i KeiKti tnjyurirl,
A ftatdVvotnan is as ridiculous « cmnire as u

ofT, in which cafe it will not b« cafy

1

1

ittjunu: each of the frxcs Ihould keep «ithin its
bounds.

y14Jif:r.

men.

As ever Beatrice ihall CDidch upon ?

Coarii'(/with her hulband °ui his golden bed.
Drydcns j^rtdj.

to reft.
Trees bent their beads to hear him fiog his
wrongs,
Fierce tygecs ceuch'd around, and loli'd their
lawning tongues.
Drydcn't yirgil.
Thefe, when death
Comes like » rufhing lion, covih like fpaniels,
With lolling tongues, and tremble at the paw.
Dryden.

We

V th" callle-ditch, till we fee the
light of our fairies. Sbak. Merry ff^i-ves cf lyir.dfor.
The earl of Angus ccuihed in a furrow, and was
palTed over for dead, until a horfe was brouijht tjar

IITachar

To Couch,

Co'tton. n.f. A plant.
The fpccics are, i. Shrubby alton, i. The mod

3.

4.

;

to hide in another body.
day in ufe at Gaza, to cvarZr pot-

;

5.

Milton's Paradi/e Loft.

A layer, or ftratum.

3.

This heap is called by maltfters a eouch, or bed,
of raw malt.
Mortimer's Hujhandry.

Co'ucHANT.
Lying down

In fome purlieu, two gentle fawns at play,
Straight couches clofe ; then rifing, changes oft
His oMchant watch.
Milton's Paradife Lcfi,

CO'UCUEE. n. /.

jiiierkury's Sermons.

with

The foundation of all parables, is fome analogy

word.

A i|uarrtl will end in oo« 9f you being turned

Dryden,

He that

Co'ucHFELLOw. N./. [couch ind/el/otu.J
Bedfellow ; companion.
1 have grated upon my good friends for three reprieves for you, and your coiicbfellow, Nim ; or

There is all this, and more, that lies naturally

clfc

L'Eftrange.
The true notion of tlie inftitution being loit, the
tradition of the deluge, which was couched under
it, was thereupon at length fufpended and loft.

To lay clofe to another.
h braaeii fcales was arm'd.

^

S^cnjer.

you Itad looked through the grate like a ge-

miny of baboons.

couched under this allegory.

Like plated co.it
ftcel, fo (ouiLedojidiXp
That nought might pierce.

Bedtime ;

Levees and ceuchecs pafs'd without refort.

Co'ucHER. ;/. /. [from couch.]

or fimilitude between the topical or alluflvc part of
the parable, and the thing couched tinder it, and
intended by it.
South.

And over all

[French.]

the time of vifiting late at night.
None of her fylvan lubjeela made their court;

couches or deprefles catarafts.

under.

6.

Br<nv»»

As a tiger, who by chance hath fpy'd.

Co'ucHGRASs. n.f.

Sbakrjpeare..

A weed.

The coucbgrajs, for the firft year, infenfibly robi
moft plants in fandy grounds ape to graze.

Wi.odioarJ^s Natural Hifiory.

a cant

French.]

fquatting.

dormant.

future ftate, which

to hide:

[couchant,

ae(/.
;

if a lion were the coat of Judah, yet were it aot
probably a lion rampant, but rather couchar.t or

to include ; to comprife.

To include fecretly ;

defpair

This gentle knight, infpir'd by jolly May,
Forfook his early couch at early day. Dryd. Fables,

at this

To involve

I

Tended the fjck, bufieit from couch to couch.

St. Paul hath couched in the words I have read to

Miller,

10

To bed

you.

To Co'tton. 'u.n.

To rife with a knap.
To cement; to unite with:

Shakefpearc's Hamlet.

Dire was the tolling, deep the groans

That great argument for a

But the fourth
and fifth forts grow in Egypt : thefe abide many
years, and often arrive to be trees of great magni-

z.

Let not the royal bed of Denmark be

A couch for luxury and damned inceft.

Drydcn's Jtivtnjl.

in the Weft Indies in great plenty.

t.

Addifon's Cato.

Abed; a place of repofe.

2.

To lay down any thing in a bed, or

Is coutb'd in the dead letters of their n.ime }

tifully in Candia, Lemnos, Cyprus,

Malta, Sicily,
and at Naples ; as alfo between Jcrufalcm and
Damafcus, from whence the cuiinn is brought annually into thefe northern parts of Europe.
The
tttttn is the wool which inclofes or wraps up the
feeds, and is contained in a kind of brown hulk,
or feed-velfel, growing upon this (hrub. It is from
this fort that the vaft quanticics of tclin arc taken,
which furnffli our parts of the world. The fccond
and third forts are annual : thefe are cultivated

Watch round his couch, and foftco his repofe!

But who will call thofe noble, who deface.
By meaner adts, the glories of thcirracc ;
Whofc only title to. their fathers' fame

American cMtPii, with a greenilh ieed.
Annual (hrubby utiim, of the illand of Provi-

«ide.

ye immortal pow'rs, that guard the juft.

Iherds, or velfels of c-irlh, in their walls, to gather
the wind from the top, and to pafs it down in
fpouts into rooms.
Bacon's Natural Hi/loiy.

dence.
4. The tree catm.
5. Tree cef/m, with
yellow flower. The firft fort is cultivated plen-

•

Dryden s Firgil's Georgiets.

Ccnejis, xlix. 14-

To repofe

It is

excellent
3.

To loll on couches rich with citron ftcds.
And lay their guilty limbs in Tyrian beds.

it, a.

Mortimer's Hujhandry.
The fea and the land make one globe ; and the
waters couch ihemfelves, as clofe as may be, to the

Cloth made of cotton.

a.

to lie down lirefled.
So Satan fell ; and ftraight a fiery globe
Of angels on full fail of wing flew nigh,
Wlio on their plumy vans receiv'd him foft
From his uncafy ilation, and upbore.
As on a floating couch, through the blithe air.

dueling down between

centre of this globe, in a fpherical convexity.
Burnet's Tbeory of the Earth.

The pin ought to be as thick as a rowling-pin,
and covered with cciim, that its hardiiefs may not
le offenfive.
tyifcman.

have never known poli-

A feat of repofe, on which it is common

1.

If the weather be warm, wc immediately ctucb
malt about a foot thick ; but if a hotter feafoii
require it, we fpread it on the floor much thinner.

The down of the cotton-tree.

1

Sbarji,

ftratum.

Ital.

its vcfli.l.,

Couch, n.f. [from the verb.]

Sbakejfeare.

2.

eot/on, French.]

I.

a ftrong afs

from

tively, by dilTefling one tliat had been couched.

Milton's ParaJI/e Regain'd.

;
to lay on a place of repofe.
Where unbruis'd youth, with unftuft'd 'brain,
Doth toueh his limbs, there golden ilecpdoth reign.

1

down that adheres to
coitone,

is

two burdens.

[named, according to

whence

Whether the cataract be wafted by being fcparated

iibakcffyeare's Julius Cajar.

DiiS.

cotogni ;

Cmcbei the cataracts, and clears bis light.
And all at once a.flood of glorious light
Comes rulhing on his eyes.
Dennis*

fear, in pain, in refpeft.
Thefe tcuchings, and tiielc lowly curteHes,
Might ftir the blood of ordinary men.

the mala cetonea, or quince, called by the
Italians

with equal impropriety they
Sometimes fpeak of couching the paticttt'
Some artift, whofe nice hand

To ftoop, or bend down; to lower in

5.

the

This is improperly

catccraSt :

ciucb

Htywafd.

cr)'ftal line-

overfpreads

called couching the eye, for couching the

To lie in a bed, or ftratum.

4.

Co'ttier. n./. £from «/.] One who in-

•

'11

condenfed
that

pupil of the eye.

To lie down in fecret, or in ambufh.

3.

the
film

deprefs

humour or

Bleircdef the Lord be his land, for the dew, and

work-folks and labourers j or elfc mere ecttagersj
which a«-e but houfed beggars. Baccn's Uenry\l\,
The yeomenry, or middle people, of a condition
between gentlemen and eeitagers.
Saccit's Henry Vll.

Skinner, from the

To

8.

To lie down on the knees, as a beaJl

2.

A

CO'TTON. ft./,

Shairffiare,

for the deep that coucbelh beneath. Diut. xxxiii. j 3.

cow for a groat.
Swift's Addr,fi to Parliament.
cottager, in law, is one that lives on
the common, without paying rent, and
without any land of liis own.
The huAandmen and plowmen be but as their

habits a cot.

Sfenfer.

Before each van
Prick forth the aery knights, and couch their fpears.
Till thickeft legions clofe.
MUion's ParadifeLcJl.
The former wav'd in air
His flaming fword ) iSneas couch'd his fpear.
Dryden's ^neii,

When love's fair goddefs

his efcape.

Let us from our farms
Call forth our eoltagers to arms.
S'wift.
The mod ignorant In/h ccitagtr will not fell his

3.

more

Deferve as full, as fortunate a bed.

And here, uncnvied, rural dainties tallt.

Co'ttager. n.f. [from ro/fa^e.]
1, One who lives in a hut or cottage.

The knight 'gan fairly «ai4 his fteady fpear.
And fiercely ran at him with rigorous might.

Doth not the gentleman

The fca coaft ihali be dweUijig^ and t^ttagei foi

Pcpe'i Odyffcy.

pollure of attack.

Staitjjieere.

If 1 court more wan\efl, you '11 caici wl:h

Co'ttace. n. f. [from <•(!/.] A hut; a
mean habitation ; a cot ; a little houfe.

To fix the fpear in the reft, in the

J.

Sv/ift,

To COUCH. T. ». [couJjer, French.]
1
To lie down on a place of rcpofe.

You liave given us a lively piSure of hufbinds
hen-pecked i but you have never touched upon one
of clia quite different charaAcr, and who goes b)
the natiK of cttjuean.
Addiku-

Aepherds, and folds for flocks.
?,tpk. ii. 6.
They were right glad to take fome corner of a
poor ctttage, and there to fcrve God upon their
knees.
Hukcr.
The felf-fame fun that fliines upon his court.
Hides net his vif;Agc from our cDUagtt but
- Looks on both alike.
Shakejf (art's Pt^inlcr's Tali
Let the women of noble birth and greit fortunes
nurfe their children, look to the affairs of the
koufe, viCt poo? nttagtj, and relieve their necefCties.
Tayhr't Hc/y J/miitg.
It is difficult for a peafant, bred up in the obfturities of a cottage, to fancy in his mind the
fplendora of a court.
Seutb
Beneath our humble eettage let us halte,

M cttttn with

another.

Mortimer's Ha/hatidry,

COVE. n.f.
1

A fmall creek or bay.

2.

A Aiclter; a covcj-,
CO'VENANT.

COY

C O V
Ob

StuUfftara's Merchant of Vemce.

coifventum, Latin.]
Acontraft; a ftbulation.
He makes a coventm nevsr to dcrtroy

Nor he their outward only with the (kir.s

The earth again by fliKKi ;

Of bcails, but inward nakcdnefs, much more

Whofe readj fails with CY'ry wind on fly.

Opprobrious, with his robe of rijliteoufnefs
Arraying, cover'd from his father's light.. Miitcn.
Ctvtr rac, ye pines
Ye cedars with innumeriible boughs
Hide me, that 1 may ncva- fee them more. Milt.

And

Some men live as if thcv have made a co^cti,im
:

let divines, tathers, friends,

on certain terms ;

a

ctKHnent is a mutual compaft, as we now
of
tonfidcr it, betwixt God and man ; confiding
man ; and
reercies, on God's part, made over to
of conditions, on man's part, required by God.

A

terms of

the

containing

To hide by fuperficial appearances.
To overwhelm to bury.

3.

Raillery and wit ferve only to f«vrr nonfenfc
with fliamc, when rcafon has firft proved it to be

To conceal from notice or punilhment.

to iHpulate.
His lord ufed commonly fo to nvrnant with him,
which if at any time the tenant difliked, he might
;

^enftev
Andodour'd (heets, and Mtis coverlets,
This done, the hoft produc'd the gcnla! bed^
Whicli with no coftly coverlet they fpread.
Dryden': Fahhs.

to proteft.
His calm and blamelefs life
Does with fubftantial Weffednefs abound.
;

I was, for want of a houfe and bed, forcfd to lie
coverlet.
Stvift.
on the ground, wrapt up in

my
Co'vERT. n.f. [from cover; cou-verf, Pf.}

Cnuley.

To incubate

7.

;

IJaiah, xvi. 4..

They are by fudden alarm, or watch-word, to
be called out to their military motions, under (ky
or covert, according to the feafon, as was the
Milton on Education.
Roman wont.

amufes and diverts her with his fongs during the
Addijimt SfeBator.
whole time of her fitting.

8. To copulate with a female.
with another on certain 9. To wear the hat, or garment of the
terms: with /or before either the price
head, as a mark of fuperiority or indeor the thing purchafed.
pendene .
Thsy crotnamtd with him for thirty pieces of
The king had conferred the honour of grandee
MaUktw.
fijver.
upon him, which was of no other advantage or

It was the hour of night, when

To agree

than to be covered in the
Dryden.
prelence of that king.
fignification to

Fur ev'ry grain, to live 1 vtar demand j
But, ah! unmindful of tb' cffift of time.
Forgot to cmenemtfcr youth and prime.
Cartb^i O-vid.

Covenante'e. «./ [from covenaat.]
party to a covenant ;

A

a ftipulator ;

a

bargainer.
Both of them were refpefliye rites of their admiiTion into the fcveral covenants, and the covevantai become thereby entitled to the rcfpeftive
priwleget.

^I'<ff''>

1

Oreftes* bulky rage,

Porirgm.

Unfatisfied with margins dofely writ,

f oam» o'er the averi, and not finifli'd yet.
Drydt-ns Juvenal.
With your hand, or any other cover, you flop
the veffei fo as wholly to exclude the air.

Covena'kTER. n. f. [from co'vtiiant.']
One who takes a covenant. A word
introduced in tl>« civil wars.

The

covnuint-.ri

(hall h..ve

no more alTurance

of inutti4 affiftance each ftonri other, after the
taking of the covenant, than they hid before.
Oxfsrd Stujont tgainft ibc CeVirmnt.

Co'vEHOWs. aJJ. [from rei'/V;.]

2.

Fraud'j-

under

which

The truth and reafon of things may be artifiand eft'edtually infinuated, under the cover
either of » real fait ot of a fuppofed one. /- Eflr.
As the fplcen has great ineonvtniencies, fo the
pretence bf it

is a

3.

forced to retire.

Sea without fliorc.

3.

Miltm.

The flaming mount appcar'd
In Djtlun civir'd with a cima of 6j».

MiU'r:-

Chrcndon.

C0VER-SHA.ME. H./. [ctmer zni Pame.]

Some appearance uled
famy.

to

conceal in'•

,

Evclyn'i KiiUndar,

A thicket, or hiding place.

2.

Tow'rds him I made

but he was 'ware of mf.

j

And ftole into the cwcrr of the wood.
Shakefpeari't Romeo and Juiit.
I fliall be your faithful guide.

Afi4c».
Through this gloomy covert wide.
Thence to the coverts, and the ccnfcious groves.
The fcenes of his pad triumphs and his loves.
Denhamr
Deep into fome thick covert wroulj I run.

Impenetrable to the ftars or fun.
Drydrn't Stae ej Inntcrnce.
The deer is k>dg'd ; I vc track'd her to her covert:

"

'
,

Be fure ye mind the word ; and when I give it,
Rufh in at once, and ftize upon your picy.
Mdifon't Calo,

Qo'vtE RT, a^. [coti'vert, French.]
1'.
Sheltered ; not open ; not expofed.

You art, of either file the green, to plant 3
covat alley, upon carpenter's work, about twelve
foot in lif ight, by which you may go in fliade into
•^'"'"'*
'.
the garden.
The fox is a bead alfo very prejudicial to the
hulbandman, efpeciJly in places tli.it are near
.

.

foreft-woods and co^-eri places. Mortm:, liujbaiiiry.
Togetlie> let us 'oeat this ample field.
Try what the open, what the rt.«ir( yield.
Fobe's EJfiyt.

'

alfo arc coverid over with corn*
Sea nver'd fea.

1

much wet, therefore retire them to covert.

Collier on the Splein.

in tlic lieU, wh^i-h grcvV now to be 'very coM,
whilft his army was under cover^ they might be

RTiUon.
_

Now have a care your carnations catch not too

Shelter; defence from weather.In the mean Ufni, by being compelled to lodge

thjng elfe.
The pafturcs are doathcd with flocks, the valleys
PJolm Ixv.

Of trees thick interwoven.

hanJfome cover for impe rtec-

tions.

[cowvrir, French.]

To overfpread any, thing with fome-

Ray oil the Creation.
a fcreen ; a veil ; a

cially

in chief, for hundreds or tlioufan:: of years.
Sacon'i Ojfiic of juknatkrt.

I.

;

appearance,
fomething is hidden.

thefe'inordinaie and ccvenovs lcaf:z of lands, boiden

To CCVER. 1/. a.

A concealment
fuperficial

lent; collufive ; trickiQi.
1 wifli fome mcani 'ievifcd for the rertraint of

Under the hofpitable covert nigh

n. /.

according to the parts; the ikin is fhaped according
Bacon.
to the parts.
The fountains could be ftrengthened no other
way than by making a lirong cover or arch over
Burnet'i Theory.
them.

thus the Son

Commun'd in filent walk, then laid him dovva

him,

[from the verb.]
Any thing that is laid over another.
The fecundine is but a general cover, not fliap»d

Co'vER.

a defence.

There Ihall be a tabernacle for a ihadow in the
day-time from the heat, and for a place of refuge,
and for a coven from ftorm and rain. Jfaiah, iv. 6.

takes his ftand upon a neighbouring
bcugh within her hearing, and by that means

Pointing to a heap of find,

;

Let mine outcalfs dwell with thee, Moab ; be
thou a covert to them from the face of the fpoiler.

generally

Jupiter ccviramtd with him, that it
hot or cold, wet or dry, calm or windy, as the
VEJirar.-^r.
tenant fliould dircft.

A ftielter

1.

to brood on.

Natural hi.'lorians obfenc, that only the male
birds have voices j that their fongs begin a little
before breeding time, and end a little after; that,
whilft the hen is covering her eggs, the male

Scurh.
fliould be

2.

To Ihelter

And the foft wings of peace cover him round.

freely depart at his pleafure.

Sfnfa't Stan tf Ireland.
It had been coitnanicd belvtta him and the
king of England that neither of them Ihould treat
of peace or truce with the French king.
Haywjrd :« £ diver d VI.
By word) men come to know one another's
minds ; by tbefe they crvenaat and confederate.

Lay her in lilies and in violets.

And filkcn curtains over her difplay,

MiltoB.

May'rt Ciller.
6.

South.

French.]
Co'vERLET, n. /.
The outerinoft of the bedclothes ; that
under which all the reft are concealed.

Thcu may'ft repent.
And one bad aft with many deeds well done

To Co'vENANT. v. n. [from the noun.]

men can be content to follow
[cowvreliil,

Charity fliaU c»ttjr the multitude of fins.
iP.(.r,iv. 8.

but lend my.diamond till your return j
I
between vjs.
let there be ccjcxcnts drawn
Sbakcfpiarc' s Cymbehri.
(hall

To bargain

Watti.

mere nonfenfc.
5.

agreement.

1

up ill this covering,
jt.

;

4.

Harmar.J's PmHizalCaTKhljn:.

A writing

Dry den' I Fables*
Sometimes Providence cafts things fo, that truth
.ind intcreft lie the fame way ; and when it is wrapt

Dryder's Virgil.

compact.

3.

Conlef,
Tlicn from the floor he rais'd a royal bed,
"With cov^ringi of Sidoni an purple fpread.

Or lead me to fame follt.'.ry place,
Asd <9ver my retrea: from human race.

L'EJIra'^ge.

An agreement

Through her flelh methinlcs is feen

The brighter foul that dwells within ;
Our eyes the fubtle covering pafs.
And lee the lily through its glafs.

In life's cool vale lee my li^w fcene be laid.
Cover me, gods, v\ith Tempe's thitkeft fliade,
Cmvley.

fay what

they will, they ftop their car^ againft them.
2.

,

!

make a cov'mmi with th' inconftant Iky.

with hell

Drefs j
n.f. [itom cover.']
vefture ; any thing fpread over anorher.
The women took and fpread a covering over the
2 5am. xvli. 19.
well's juauth.
Brinj feme covering for this naked foul,
Skak. KingLearV^'hom I'll intreat to lead me.

Co'vERiNG.

To conceal under fomething laid over.

2.

r"r let the fci
Milton i ParjJiJc Left.
S'jrpafs his bounds.
The Englift make the occin their abode,

.

Does he put on holy garments for a eover-Jhame
Drydens Spanifh Friar.
of IcwJnefs ?

to thy fellows, bid them cover ttie table,
dinner.
ferve in the meat, and we will come in to

CO'VENANT. n.f. [caniKtiant.'Prenck;
1.

C O V

2.

Secret ; hidden ; private ; infidious.

And let us prtfcntly go fit in council.

How tovert mittcrs may be beil <lifclos'd,
Aiki open perils furcft anfwered.
,

!>liaieJi':art'sy»li»i<i/efar,
.

»1

By wlut beft vvf,
Vriiethtt of open war, or cn-rri guile,
Mifcjn'i VaraJtft Ltflnow debate.

Wc

Co'vEKT. aJj.
flate of a

To Co'viT. V. ti. To have a ftrong defire.
The love of money is the root of all evil, which

The

[eeuvert, French.]

while fome aveieJ iiftir, they ha»e «rred from
t Tim. »i.
the faith.

[from cwef.] To be
/r<i''.
Di^I.
wilhed for ; to be coveted.
Co'vETlSE. a. /. [eoavoiti/e, French.]

woman (heltered by marriage Co'vETABiE.
as cwetT" baron,

uudtr her hu{band ;
feme crjtrt.

,

abled, and my head fortified

CovfiRT-WAV.

'•

It is, in fortificttion, a fpace

of ground level

with the field, on the elge of the diah, three or
tflur fathom broad, ranging quite round the half
One
inaons, or otht:r works toward the cot^ntry.
of the greatert difficulties in t fiege is to make a
ufualljr
the
lodgment on tlie c:~jtn--way, becaufe
belieged paltifade it along the middle, and undermine it on all fides. It is fometimes called the corridor, and fometimes the counterfcarp, tecaufe it

fuffice,

Whofi: greedy luft did lack in greateft ftore ;
Whofc need had end, but no end coveii/e. Fairy

Co'vERTLY. adv. [from

The cruel nation, ecvrtait of prey,
Stain'd with my blood th' unhof|,. -ble coaft.
Dryden'i JEndi.

Inordinately eager of

I.

money ;

avari-

cious.
Ail heart they haw extrcifed with eayetcut prac* f""'! "'• '4-

cretly; dofelyi in priviUc; with pri-

What lie cannot help in his nature, you muft
not account a vice in him : you muft in no ways
Sbahcjpcare.
fay he is ri-vttous.
Let never fo much probability hang^on one fide
of a ewcltus man's rcifoning, and money on tlic
other, it is eafy to forefce which will outweigh.

vacy.
Yet ftill Aragnol <fo his ht was hight)
I.ay lurking, ccvertlj him to furpiife.

?—

•-Mot honeitly, my lord j but fo ccvcitly,

that

no dilhoneily mall appear in me.

Defirous; eager: in a good fenfe.

3.

Shaktffijrt' s Much aik ahfjt VitVtng.
Amongft the p ets, Pcrfius cn'cnly ftrikts at
Nero ; fome of whofe verfes he r:cites with fcorn

Drydtn,

Sheba vyas never

More tn'itous of wifdom and fair virtue.
Than this fair foul (hall ix. Sbukeffi. Ilcitry VIII.

Co'vERTURE. It./, [from rBwr/.]

He that is envious or angry at a virtue that is
not his own, at the perfection or excellency of bis
neighbour, is not covetom of the virtue, but of its
reward and reputation ; and then his intentions air
Taylor' i Rule of Living Ihly.
polluted.

defence; not expofure.

Co'vETOtTsL Y. W-u. [ffom fe^t/w.] A-

and indignation.

Co'VEJLTNEES. »./.

[froiD «Wr/.]

DUl.

crecy ; privacy.
Slielter ;

1.

Sc-

It may be it is rather the ihaJe, or otlier cvutrlure, that they take liking in, than the virtue of
Bacim'z Natural Hiftcry.
the herb.

He faw their Qiame, that fought
The winds fecinj

fo fierce, and fo feverc, as
th'ive beyond the lieijjht

fuflFcr any tiling to

BOt to
of « Oirub, in thofiiflanj!, unlefs protcfleJ by
2.

therefore difahled to contraft with any,
to the prejudice of herfelf or her hufband, without his allowance or confir-

vtrivrt of queen Mary, did, in fait, difable them
«a accompbOt the conqiKft of Ireland.

Oavus ett Jrtfaiki,

To CO'VET. f. a. [con'oaiter, French.]
beyond
I. Todefire inordinately ; todefire
If it be a fin to eovH honour,

between two or more, to tlie
Ccwdl.
Co'viNC. n./. [from cei't.l A term in
building, uiedof houfes thatprojed over
the ground-plct, and the turned projefture arched with timber, lathed and
hurt of another.

Scarcely have cevrlti what was mine own ;
Sha\tff. AfMitih.
fit ni time brokr my faitb.
father ! can it be, that fouls f i*lime
^
clkne
our
tcrr«liri«l
vtfit
Rstura to
And that tlie fcn'rous mind, rckas'd by d<:ath.
Can {rvrl laiy limbs and mortal breath >
Vwydin^t ^nt'ij.

O

defirc earneilly.

All tilings etvfimg as much ai may be to be
like onto God in being ever ; th»t which cannot
hereunto attain perfonally, doth fcfk to coat uue
itfetf »iother way, by oft>pting and propagation.
i

Harris.

plaftered.

Could,

[the imperfeft preterite of can.
SeeCAK.] Was able to ; had power to.

And if I ha\e djne well, and as is fitting the
it is that which I defired J but if flenderly
and meanly, it is that which I isuli! attain untu.

ftory,

What if he c^id not all the ill he cmM f

Am I oblig'd by that

t' afiiit

hit rapines.

And to maintain his murders ^

Co'uLTER.

tt.

/.

VryJeni Sfenhh Friar.
Latin.]
The

[culler,

fharp iron of the plough, which cuts the
earth perpendicular to the (hare.
The liraelites went down to iharpcn every man
his (hare, ^nd his (0;</ti'r, and his ax, and his mattuck.
I Samuel, xiii. 20.
Literature ia ttie'giandftone to Jharpcn the csulicrt, to whet tiieir

natural faculties.

Hanmor.d on FunitamentaU.

Eagernefs ; defire : in a neutral fenfe.
When workmen drive to do better than well.
They do confound their (kill in ecvtloufneff.

Theplough for fil^ clays is long and broad ; and
the

ctjilttr

long, and very

little

very large wing.

Shakefptan^s King y<ihn.

bending, with a
Mortimer.

CO'UNCIL. »./. ^concilium, Latin.]
An alTembly of perfons met together in
A hatch; an old bird with her ynung

Co'vEY. «•/ [nuvis, French.]

1

confultation.

ones.
2.

")»./.

Co'viNE. J

TUlcrfcn.

into the earth.

1.

Dm.
A deceitful agreement

coughs.

Co'viN.

of impurities or intemperance, is idle in the worfl
Tayltr's Holy Limri^.
fcnfc.
Cmil^ufntfs dcbafcth a man's fpirit, and finks it

The chief priells, and all the eounci/, fought falfe

A number of birds together.

The Stygian coun.U thus dirtblv'd

and fortii
;
In order came the grand infernal peers.
Atillcn.
In hifturics compofcd by politicians, they are
for drawing up a perpetual fchemc of eaufes and
events, and prefcrving a comtant correfpondcncc
between the camp and the auneil table.
Mdijtn's Sfeftattr..

and begged a fup of him to iioench
VEflrar.ge.

A tovey of partridges fpringing in eur front, put
AMijt,ns f'rcitcUtr.
our infantry in difmtrr.
There w;)i«ld be no walking in a Ihady wood,
without fpringing a tavey of toafts.

AiMan'i Guartlian.

2.

COUGH, ft./, [hub, Dutch.] A convulfion

of the lung«, vellic.ited by fome
It is pronounced csj'.

(harp fcrolity.

Ill C-'iifu.nptiii'5 of the lungs, when natuic cannot expel the cM/h, men fall into fluxes of th>BMini Natural Hijlury.
beJly, and then they die.
For his dear fike Ion,; reO.lefir nights you bore.
While rattling ccughi lis heaving vefiels tore.

To Couch.

Cn. «ii. 31.

h»ife the

i>.

n.

[iucie/i,

Dutch.]

lungs convulted ; to

To

Aft of publick deliberation.
The fceptcr'd heralds call

To ccuncil in tho city gates

anon
Grey-headed men and grave, with warriors m'x'd,
AtTenble, ,ind harangues arc htard.
Miiim.
to deliberate
3. An aftimbly of (hvines
.

upon religion.
Some boriow all {heir religion from the fathers
of the ChrilKan church, or from their fynods or

Smth.

liltktr.

Matthew, xxvi. 59.

witnefs.

A flight of wafps and covey of partridges went
their thirft.

I am the inoft offending man alive, Stak. Hin, V.
I am yet
Unknown to viorfian ; never was forfworrTj

Couch, -u. a. To ejeft by a cough ;

to expeftorate.
If the matter be to be difcharged by cxpefloration, it muft fird pafs int> the fuWlancc of the
lungs i then into the afpera artcria, or weafand )
and from thence lie C}ugkcd up, and fpit out by
IViJrman^l Surgery,
the mouth.
Co'uGHiR. »./ [from fsa^*.] Onethat

He that takes pains to ferve the ends of eovetcufkeeps a (hop
tiffs, or mihifters to another's luit, or

2.

am fltart^

Pope't Efifltn,

eagernefs of gain.

to a farmer,

due bounds.

But i»atfear«eftly the bcil gifts,

Ray on the Creation.
I cudgb like Horace, and tho' lean,

1 Mac. XV. 38.

Co'vETOusNEss. »./. [from covetous.']
1. Avarice; inordinate defire of money ;

Cciuell.
mation.
The infancy of kin^ Edward VI. and the ro-

To

ceugt, but not an ox or cow ; whereas the contrary
Brcnvn.
is often oblerved.
If any humour be difcharged upon the lungs,
they have a faculty of calling it up by coughing.

If he care not for "t, he will fiipply us eafily ; if
\it cswtiujly referve it, how fliall 's get it ?

[In law.] The eftate and condition
of a married woman, who, by the laws
of our realm, is in potejfate "uiri, and

Z.

The firft problem enquireth why a roan doth

varicioully ; eagerly.

fVooi-wirJ.

walls, or other like aixrlurt.

bccaufe he hath wakened thy dog
the fun.

tliat hath lain aflccp in

Shalicfpeart.

M:lt!!n's Paradifc Lcji.

Vain cmeriura.

in the ftrcct,

7ff

tices.

How can'ft thou crofs this marriage

Sitkeffearr' I Ailxiy and Cleofatrel,

Thou haft quarrelled with a man for caighirg

Inordinately defirous ; eager.
While cumber'dwith my dropping cloaths I lay.

J .

Se-

eivert.']

^

Co'vETous. aiij. [co/niciteux, French.] ,_

Harrit.

is on the edge of the fcarp.

peccant matter from the lungs.
Thou didit drink
The ftalc of borfei, and the gilded puddle
Which beatU would cngh at.

Sbakrjfeare'i Rimec and Juliet.

Mod wretched wight, whom hothing might

[from covtrt and

n. /.

to evacaate the

Hoife in endeavouring

in ufe.

Dryd. Sfamplr'uir.

ouiiy.]

Not

Avarice ; covetoufnefs of money.

Instead ct' her being under eov<rt baron, to be
Mnict covirt tcme myfelf! to have my body dif-

'

c o u

c o u

C O V

ceuiuih.

4.

ff'atti.

I'erfons called together to be confulted

make a Ion any occaiion, or to give advice.

They

TJity being thus afTsmblcd, arf more properly a
the great council of the kingdom, to advife his inajcfty in thofe thing- of
weight and dilliculf walub concern both the king
rcuncil 10 the king,

and people, than a court. Baar'! Adv. ti VillUrs5. The body of privy coanfellors.
Without the knowledge
Either of king or aur.cil, you made bold

my

friends rerer to trull to her fairer fide, though

flic

feemed to make peace with them.

counfei and inflruQ him with

tt.

and
where

[council

/.

Council-table ; table
matters of Hate are deliberated.
He hath commanded.
To-morrow morning to the counc'tl-hoard

A

For uifdom at Jove's covncil-hoard,

Sicift.

CO'UNSEL. «./. [coxJlUum, Latin.]
Advice;

-I.

direftion.

Grecian name.

Bacon.
The beft emrtfil he couU give him was, to go to
his parliament.
C/artaJcn.
Bereave me not,
Whereon I live, thy gentle looks, thy aid.
Thy coujffclf in this utceimoft dirtrefs.
Miifoti.

Confultaticn ; interchange of opinions.
1 hold as little counfei with weak fear

As you, or any Scot rhat lives.
Shah. Benry V.
3. Deliberation; examination of confe-

caufe, that cminftl is ufed,
lowed, and a Wiy obferved.

4.

Lord.

One that is confultcd in a cafe of law

All th* impoiTi bill ties, which p^ets

Count to extravagance of loofc dcfcription,
Shall fooner be.
Reiuc's Amhitious Stepmother*

Vour hand, a covenant
we will have thefc
things fct down by lawful caunfti. Shak, Cymheilne.

[comfte, French; com^uiusa

Laiin.]
J.

Number.
That wc up to your palace*; may mount,-

Of biclTcd faints for to incrcafe the count,
Spenjer\ E^ithaU
z.

Reckoning ; number fammed.
By my count,
your mother much upon thefc years. Shak*
ijince I faw you laft,
There is a change upon you.—— "
•~Well, I know not
What cQunti hard fortune cafts upon my face.
I was

Sbakefpfarg,

Count, n. /. [comte, Fr.

row^j, Latin.]

A

title of foreign nobility,
equivalent to an earl.

The evils which jou dcllre to be recounted are
very iTrany, arui ulni -iJ <<.ur.f^h'c with thjfc which

were hidden in the b:;(kct of Vandora.
Sffcnj'er^s

fevered from the counfellorfhip.
Bacon's AJi'ice to t'llliert.

tare,
1.

a.

COUNTENANCE.

2.

Latin.]

Sk^ii/^cart,

Truth Ihall nurfe her ;
Holy anil heav'niy thoughts rti!l aunfel her.

Air ; look.
and imiling \ her head, bowed fomewh.it
down, feemed to langt-ilfi withovci-muchidlcnflsSidncy*

Well, Sufluik, yet thou fhalt not fee me blulh,
Nor change my countenjncc for this arrcit ;
A heart anfpotted is not callly daunted*
hhakefpcarii Henry VJ,
S J fpakc our fire, and by his £ount'' nance rem'd
Mi'tct,
E.itcring on ftudiou? thoughts r^ilrufc.
To whom, with tount^nur.iC calm, and Ami f-'djtc,

ycbnfon.

When men in ficknefs lingering lie,
1 hey count the tedious hours by months and years.
Dry den.
Afgos now rejoice, for Thebes liea low
Thy llaughtcr'd fons now fmile, and think they

But Uy, Lucrtta, now we are alone.
Would' rt thou then counfei me to fall in love ?

the fy ftem of the

fiiiipcring

For the preferments of the world, he that wuuld
reckon up all the accidents that tbcy depend upon,
may as well undertake to count the lands, or to fum
up infinity.
South.

To give advice or ccunfel toanyperfon.

;

A made ccuntenajuc about her mouth, between

To number; to tell.

afls.

/

features.

The vicious count their years; virtuovis, their

an efl'cntial part
ofjufiicc; and an ovrrfpeaking judge is no we'Jtuncd cymbal.
Bacon,
What fays mycounft/ learned in the law ? Pifi.

The form of the face

1

Here thro" this grate I can count every ore.
And view the Frencnmen. Shakefpeare'i Henry VI.

is

«.

JreUrd,

[ccnUnance,

French.]

[compter, fx. cemjiu-

Latin.]

That

.

dom, the moft part are fuch as cannot well be

To COUNT, t/.

fuppofed

Co'uNTABLE. acfj [ffom count.l
which may be numbered.

counfel-

Of the great offices and officers of the king-

For the advocates and ccunfti that plead, pa-

[ccnjiltor,

Count, n.'f,

fellor.

;

tience and gravity of -learning

:

The office or poft of a privy coun-

lor.]

Cojrmcn Pra\'er.

ufual in converfation.

To Count. «z;. ff. To found an account or
fcheme with upon,

;

Drydent "Juvenjlf Dedication.

Co'lTNSELLORSHir. ti. /. [from

Pjtlm xxxiii. II.
O Cod, from whom *ll holy defircr, all good
counjilsy and all jufl works do proceed.

Thofe that plead a canfe ; the coanfellors. This feems only an abbreviature

To impute to ; to charge to.

Siviff*

juft prince how far his prerogative extends.

The ciunfcl of the Lcrd (l.indcth for ever, the

a.

ThiHpiU Britom,
5.

A ctur.fcllor bred up in the knowledge of the

thoughts of his heart to all gencrationT*.

1'.

Conferr'd upon me».Alilton'i AgorA^.a^
Vou wjuld not wifh to count this m^ti a iot 1

a lawyer.

Sbakejpeare.

Notiri ufe.

Sam, u

think it a great errour to ft«n?r/^c» the genius
of a natiuii, as a llandiag argument 111 all ages*

municipal and ftatute laws, may honeftly inform a

Scheme; purpose; defign.

I

Nor fhall I count it heinous to enjoy
The publiclc marks of honour and reward

I

Shaicfpcare'tUesryVin.
Of counfello-t there are two loits: the firft,
conjSiarii nali, as I may term them ; fuch are the
prince of Wiles, and others of the king's fons
but the ordinary fnrt of coi/nfellors are fuch as the
king, out of a dae confideration of their worth
and abilities, and withal of their 'fidelity to hit
pcrfon and to his cr<jwn, callcth tn be of council
with him, in his ordinary government.
Bticons Adflcc to VUlieri.

Theplayen cannot kccpc«i</</; they'll tell all.

I.

'

WJler.
3. One whofe province is to deliberate and
advife upon publick aiTair."^.
-Vou are a ccunftllorf
And by that virtue no man date accufe you.

Pr:v. xxi. 30.
the fecrets entrulied in con-

TtfCo'oNSEL.

Belial.

And b\ frcquentinK facred groves grew wife.

fulting.

7.

Hooker,
Count not .thine handmaid .for- a daughter of

In frlendlhip, and in hatred, obilinate.

In fuch green palaces the firft kings rcign'd,
Slept in their fhades, and angels entcrtain'd \
With fuch old covnfelhri they did advife,

reafon folhosier.

There is no wifdom, nor underllanding, ncr

6.

to have fome ufe of natural realbn.

This

His mother was liis counfellor to do wickedly.
%Chron. xxii. 3.
She would be a counfellor of good things, and a
H^ifJom, viii. 9.
tomfort in cares.
Death of thy foul Thofe linen cheeks of ihine
Stoieffearc't Macbeth.
Are courfelhis to fear.
z. Coitfidant ; boibm friend.

Ecclus. XXV. 5.

Secrecy ;

tions, and contradictions in fpeech, we then court: it

1. One that gives advice.

4. Prudence ; art ; machination.
O how comeiy is the wlfdom of old racp, and
undcrflanding and counfei to men cf honour.

5.

When once it comprehended any thing above

ftiould rather be written coun/eller ."]

quences.
They all confefs, therefore, in the working of
firft

to account ;

this, as the differences of time, affirmations, nega-

fellaUe than he ; fo that he would feldom be in
danger of great errours, if he would communicate
Clarendon.
his own thoughts to difquifition.

Co'uNSELLOR. n.f. [fiom cDun/el.

efteem ;

to confider as

aiij.
[ from coun/tLI
Willing to receive and follow the advice
or opinions of others.
Very few van of io great parts were more cour-

I

counfelj againll the

to reckon ;
having a certain character, whether good or evil.

4. -To
the

Dryden't f^'klcs.

Go'uNSELLABLE.

of a flatterer.

that

broke the oxen, muft all be charged on the account of Jab )ur.
Lochc,

!

Tl.^rc is as much difference between the counffl
that a friend giveth, and that a man giveth himfelf, as there is between the ntmfel of a friend ana

2.

Teyhr.

The left had been our (hame.
The lefs his counfeWd crime which brands

Stuhffcare's Hetiry VIII.
He be convened.
When ihip-money was tranlafied at the cour.cithcarJ, they looked upon it as a work of that power
Clartndin.
they were obligtd to trufl.
And Pallas, if (he broke the laws,
Mul"^ yield her foe the ftrongcr caufe
Ihame to one fo much ador'd

''s

;

To advife any thing.

Sbaiefffure-i Henry VIII.

to place to an account.

;

him tor righccoufnefs.
Ccncfisf xv. 6.
Not barely the plowman pains Js to be counuj
into the vbrcad we eat
the labjur ot thofe who-

my learning and ex-

perience.
z.

To reckon

He believed in the Lord, and he courted, it to

Ben jfonfoni DifcO'.eriet.

To carry into Flanders the grc:it feal.

taarcf.]

3.

He fupports my poverty with his wealth, and 1

.

CoOHCit-BOARD.

c o u

c o u

c o u

Thus Turnus.
3.

Diyd^n'xj^./uid,

Calmnefs of look ; compofure of face.
l;ht (.iiU'd fcvcrcj

nor With a troubled look.

Or tr-^mbling hand, the fun'ral rrel'rnt took

won,

j

Staieff^art; Henry VIU.

When they can count more Theban ghofts than

There is danger of being unfaithfully counfclUJ,
and more for the r-ood of them that sounfel th m for

DrydcK.

Dilcloi'd the heart unfortunately lovM.
Mryde'i's Fjbkt*

Some people in America counted their years by
the conung of certain birds amon^it them at their

The two great maxims of any great man at
court arc, always to keep his ccuntenar.cti and nc v?r

certain fcaf ms, a.id Icavirjj them at others,

to keep hia wurd.

hioi that in counjellid,
Baait.
Ill fortune nccr crufhitd that man whom good
fortune decen'td not ; 1 thcicf«re have (tuifciUd

theirs.

2.

To prefcrve a reckoning.
Locke.

Ev'n kept her ccunt^nancct whrn the lid lemov'd

S-.i'/t,

4.

ConiidciKe

CO tj

c o u
4. Confi|lence

ance :

it

oF mien ;

afpeft of a/Tur-

commonly

is

uied

in

To

3

a^}.]

Malcolm

!

To t'ovnterantc this horrour.

The night beginning to perfu3dc fome retiring
place, the gentlewoman, even mt of cautiinancc be-

night with her father.

At the firll defcent on tliore he was not immured
with

Sidney.

We will not make y oat cdrniteitanei to fall by the
«nfwer ye fliall receive.
Barm': Nnu Ailar.iii.
Their beft friends were cut of ci>urier,anii, bccauft;
they found that the imputations, whicli their inetnies had laid upon them, were well grounded.
Clcrttid'in.

Yoor examples will meet it at every turn, and
put it Mt of countir.ance in every place ; even in

^

Wotton.

Co'uNTENANCER. «. /. [froffl countenance '[ One that countenances or fupports another.

A falfe piece ef i&oney i;^e4 as a means

I..

of reckoning.
Sbaieffrare.
Though thei'e half-pence are to be received as
money in the Exchequer, yet in tiaJe they arc no
better thin counHrs. Suift'i Cinjid. oa Wood's Coin.

Money, in contempt.
When Marcus Brutus grows. fo covetous.
To lock fuch rafcal csurteri from his frierids,

Be ready, gods with alt your thunder-bo^ts
U.ilh him to pieces.
Sbakcjpvarc'i yul]ut Cafat*^
3. The table on which goods are viewed,
I

relieve him.

"l

againft with an oppofite weight.
There was lb much air drawn out of the vefl'cl,
that the remaining air was not able to counterbalance the mercurial cylinder.
Hoyle.
bias, which it is the hufincfs of education either

take off, or counterbalance.

verb. ]

n. f,

[from the

Oppofite weight ;

equivalent

But peaceful kings, o'er martial people fet.
Each other's poife and counterbalance arc.
Dryden's An. Mirah,
Money is the counterbalanei 10 all other things
purchofcable by it, and lying, as it were, in the
oppofite fcale of commerce.
Locke.

To Counterbu'fp. v. a. [from counter
and buff.] To impel in a direftion oppofite to the former impulfe ;

to ftrika

back.
The giddy (hip, betwixt the winds and tides

and gives

night j and then goes out, and fpcnds it upon our

them a place among the faOiionable part of man-

cuckold-makers.
Dryden.
In half-whipt muHin needles ufelefs lie.
And ibutUecocks acrofs the counter Ry.

f orc'd back and forwards, in a circle rides,

Gay'iTriv'ia.

Till counterbuff'd fhe flops, and deeps again.

It puts the

learned

in

kind.

coumtnanccy

AJdifin't Fmbotder.
_

Kindnefs or ill-will, as it appears upon

5.

the face.
felling broadcloth,

which had not the publick allowance and countefia«« of authority, could not ufe the excrcilc of
the Chriftian religion but in private.
Hooker.

His majefty maintained an army here, to give
ftrcngth and countenance to the civil magiftratc.
Davies on JreUnd.
Now then we 'II ufe
•His countenance for the battle ; which being done.
Let her who would be rid of hir.i devife
His fpeedy taking off.
Stak^ffcre's King Lear.

,

_

This is the magiftrate's peculiar province,

gold.

vice and profancnefs.

between the
(houlder and under the neck. Far. Diil.
Co'u N T E R adv. [con/re, Fr. contra, Lat.]
1. Contrary to;
in oppofition to: it is
commonly ufed with the verb run, perhaps by a metaphor from the old tournaments.
horfe's fore-hand that lies

.

Shall we ereft two wills in Cod's, and make the
will of his purpofe and intention ruti aur.ier to the

will of his approbation?

kingdom,

are fo far

He thinks it brave, at his firfi fetting out, to

The election being done, he made countenance of

fignalize

himfeU in tunning counter to all the rules

of virtue.

Locke.

The wrong way

2.

Keep me in patience, and with ripcn'd time
Unfold the evil, which is here wrapt up
In countenance. Shalteffeare'i Meajurefor Miafure,

Oh, tJiis is counter, you falfe Danilh dogs!

How cheerfully on the falfe trail tbey cry.

3.

To fupport

;

[from

the

Neither /halt thou counicname a poor man in his

4.

hairi to countenance it.

Adjifon.

To make a fhow of.

And to his miftrcfs each himfcif ftrovc to advance.
Sfenfer.

of whom his eyes had fecn the proof

By debtor and creditor, this countcrcafter.

5.

Staielpcare's Othello.

Co'unterchance.

;;.y:

Exchange;

change.]

[counter

The face,

Locke,

in oppofition to the back.

This word is often found in compofition, and may be placed before either
nouns or verbs ufed in a fenfe of oppofi-

She, like harmlcfs lightning, throws her eye

On him, her brothers, mc, her malUr, hittliig
fcvVaily in

Is

The counicrchjngi

all.

Shakcfpcare's Cyn:beline.

Co'unterchance. v. a.

To give

and receive.

Countercha'r.m.
charm.]

n. /.
[counter and
That by which a charm is
that which has the power of

petition on foot.

Now touch'd by countcrcbarmj they change agtin.
And ftand nvijefiick, and rccall'd to men,

fo Co u N T E R c H A R M v./z. [from Counter
and charm.] To deftroy the eifed of an
.

enchantment.
Like a fpell it was to keep us invvlnci-aUc, and
our crimes, that they Jhould

fo ciuntircbarm all

only be aftive to ple:ife, not hurt us.
,

1'hat delign was no fooner known, but others
of an oppofitc party were appointed to let a counter.
Cla'cnditi.

and

reciprocation.

diflblved ;

tion.

Each to thefc ladies love did countenance.

I,

At Rhodes, at Cyprus, muft be let and calm'd

deftroying the efiefts of a charm.

They hit une another with darts, as the other do
with their hands, which they never throw counter,
but at the back of the flyer.
Sandys s 'J.-urnal.

Brciun.

_

counts ; a reckoner.

on him ; in this cafa, it is plain, the will and the

Not in ufe.

Excdus.

This conceit, though countenanced by learned
men, is not made out cither by experience or reaThis national fault, of being fo very talkative,
looks natural and graceful in one tJiat h.is gny

Go, captain Stub, lead on, and fhow

ufe perfuafions to anethcr, which, at the fame
time I am fpeaking, I may wiili may not prevail
defirc run counter.

topatronife ; to vindicate.

c»ak.

fcn.

Contrary ways.

A man, whom I cannot deny, may oblige me to

Sbakeffeare.

V. a.

Sidney,

What houfc you come trt, by the blow
You give Sir Quintin, and the cuf}'
You 'Icape o' th' fandbags couniabuff. Benjonfon.
Co'untercaster. n. /. [from counter^
for a falfe piece of money, and ca/ier.]
A word of contempt for an arithmetician ; a book-keeper i a cafter of ac-

'To

Sbakeffearo'i llamlct.

While he did bear my countaiauce in the town.

7« Co'uNTENANCE.
oun.]

from the horfe.

Eich objcfl with 3 joy.

Bianca's love

2,

contrarily to the right

courie.

Made me exchange my ftatc with Tranio,

1.

;

!

from

the laddie, the faddlc with broken girths was driven

Child on Trade.

blance.
Ajcham's Schoolmafter.

S:utb.

from being always parallels,
that frequently they run counter one to the other.

Ailcrbury.

Oh, you bleflcd minifters above

He at the fecond gave him fuch a counterbuf,
that, bccaule Fhalantus was not to be driven

The profit oi the merchant, and the gain of the

to

Superficial appearance ; fliow ; refem-

great difcontent thereat.

A

blow in a contrary diredlion ; a ftroke
that produces a recoil.

Swift.

Counter c/'"^ //i;r/<, is that part of a

4.

give countenance to piety and virtue, and to icbukc

7.

Diyden.

And

Sfenfer.

The church of Chrift, which held that profefiion

then /booti

CouNTERBU , FF. w. /. [counfer And buff.]

\V'hcther thy counter fliine with fums untold.
thy wide-grafping hand grows black with

That to flrange knight no better countenance al6. Patronage ; appearance of favour ; appearance on any fide ; fupport.

fometimcs mcafuring linen.
A)-buibnot.

And thatgre.it princels too, exceeding proud.
low'd.

Stunn'd with the different blows j
amain.

Sometimes you would fee him behind HJ^eaumer

Vet the ftout fairy, 'mongft the middeft crowd.
Thought all their glory vain in knightly view.

to

Lock**

power.

A fine gaudy minx, that robs aat countert every

Mdijini FrtthiliUr.

South.

To CountErba'lance. v. a. [counter
and balance. To weigh againft ; to aft

and money told, in a lliop.

may be rallied, bu>

and

[counter

In this cafe we can find no priitciple within him
Urong enough 10 counteraU that piinciplc, and to

Counterba'lance.

The valt proportion of his infinite ?

2.

a.

Few of Adam's children are not'bom with feme

Co'uNTER. ff./ [from <«!««/.]

Will jou with rati^iT fum

Sfratfs Serjnoni,
If the outward profefiion of religion and virtue
were once in praflicc and coummance at court, a
good treatment of the clergy would be the neccffiry confequence.
Sieifi.
If thofe preachers would look aboat, the}' would
find one part of tlieir congregation oui of counienanct, and the otlier afleep.
.
S-!uifi.
It is a kind of ill manners to ofter objedlions to
fine
woman,
a
and a man would be cut of iounurtance that Aiould gain the I'upcriority in fuch a
a coqocttc logician

wooden vefiel, but he Hi ^ountcnjnct the

landing in his long-boat.

private comers it will foon lofe confidence.

not contiadided.

Shjkeff. Macbeth.

To encourage ; to appear in defence.

4.

fore (he began her fpcech, invited me to lodge tliat

"v.

To hinder any thing from its effeft

by contrary agency.

Banqu") t

As from your graves rife un, and walk like fprites.

tenance.

conteft :

to keep To Countera'ct.

up any appearance.

thcfe

ana tut tf coun-

phrafes, in countenance,

c o u

any tiling ;

aft fuitably to

To Co u N T E R c H e'c K . «. <r.
eheci.]

To oppofe

;

Decay of Piety.
[counter <ind

to flop with fudden

oppofition.

COUKTER-

c o u

c o u

^JCouNTERCHE'cit. It. f. [from the Verb.]

'

I am no fsvntrfeit ; to die is to be a etunitrfiit

Stop J rebuke.

for he is but the cttunttrfcU
not the life of a man.

If again I faid his beard was not well cut, he
would fay I lye: this is called the teurtercbecl
quarrelfome.
Sbaktffearc.

him to inftrudt his pi iyer,

With painters, to copy a

defign or painting by means of a fine
linen cloth, an oiled paper, or other
tranfparent matter, whereon the ftrokes,
appearing through, are traced with a
pencil.
Chamber!.

.Countere'vidence. n./.

and
Teftimony by which the de
pofition of fome former witnefs is op
[counter

e^idence.'\

pofed.
Senfe itfelf detefls !ts.motc palpable deceits by a
nutitfr- evidence, and the more ordinary impofturcs

fddom outlive the experiments.
ClamiilU'i Stipfn.

i.

To CO'UNTERFEIT. ^. «. [contrefaire,

But truft me, child, I 'm much inclln'd to fear
Some counterfeit in this your Jupiter. Addil.O-uid.

Counterma'nd. »./ [contremand, Fr.']

'"'P'''"-

Something made in imitation of ano-

A forger

feit.']

;

Have you no countennand for Claudio yet.
But rauft he die to-morrow ? Stai. Mcc:J.jcr Mmf.

7» Cou N t e R M a'r c h t;. «. [counter and
march.] To march backward ; to march
.

in indiredl ways.

,

Counterma'rch. n.f. [from ths verb.
1

_

Shakrffrare't Henry IV.
ft came into this prieft's fancy to caufc this lad
to

cisunierfe'it

and pcrfonate the fecond fon ol Ed-

ward IV. I'uppofed to be murdered.
Bacon' 1 Hmry VII.
There have been fome that could countirfca the
diftance of voices, which is a fecondary objeft of
bearing, in fuch fort, as, when they (land faft by
you, you would think the fpeech came from afar
off in a fearful manner.
Bacon i Natural WJlory.
Say, lovely dream, where couldft thou find

one who contrives co-

that cliey who aumerfeited me had heard of the
S-wlft.

_

To imitate

to copy >- to refemble.
;
And.oh, you mort:il engines! whofe rude throats
Th' immortal Jove's dread clamours eaunierfeir,

*»««="

'

Sbjhffeare-i Oikelh.
1.VC ! in evil hour thou did'ft give ear
To that falie worm, of whomfoevcr taught
To cunterfat man's v .ice. MHin's PuraMfe

O

LoJI.

To cnntcrf.it, is to put on the l.k nr-fs a.id ap.
peirance of fome real excellency
Briftol-ftoncs
would not pretend to be diamonds, if there never
had been diamonds.
Ttllotfcn

And his man Reynold, with fine counlerfcfance.
Supports his credit and bis countenance.
.

Hukhard; rale.

,
buch IS the face
of falfehooJ, fuch the fight
.

.

,

Of foul Dueffa, when her borrow'd light
Is laid away, and csuntirfefjnce known.

another, with intent to pafs for the original ; forged ; fiftitious.
I learn

Bear in their fuperfcription ; in profperous days
Thrry fwarm, but in adverfe withdraw their :.cad.
Milttn.

General obfervations drawn from particulars,
are the jewels of knowledge, comprehending
great
ftore in a little room ; but they ate therefore
to be
mit^e with the greater care and caution,
left, if we
take c'Mnterfeii for true, our Ihamc be the
greater,
when our ftock comes to a fevcre fcrutiny.
2. Deceitful ; hypocritical.
True friends appear Icfs mov'd thin courterfelt.

Counterfeit. «./.
One

[from the verb.]
who perfonatss another ; an im-

pollor.

Vol. I.

feveral

mer-

may not be opened but

The mark of the goldfmiths company,
to (hew the metal is ftandard,
that of the artificer.

added to

An artificial cavity made in the teeth

3.

of horfes, that have outgrown their natural mark, to difguife their age.
A mark added to a medal a long time
4..
after it is ftruck, by which the curious
know the feveral changes in value which
it has undergone.
Chamber/.
To Counterma'rk. v. a. [counter and
mark.]

A

Fairy S.

horfe is faid to be eountermarkrd, when hi*
corner teeth are artificially made hollow, a falfe

fort.]

mark being made in the hollow pl.ice, in Imitation

Coualerfortt, buttrefles or fpurs, are pillars
ferving to fupport walls or terralTej fubjcft to
bulge.

ot the eye of a bean, to conceal the horfe's age.

Cha.nlers.

I.

In carpentry, a method ufed to
meafure the joints, by transferring the
breadth of a mortife to the place where
the tenon

is

to be,

in order to

_

any thing, which makes

;

Ch^xmbers.
counter

it

appear to a
Chambers.

To Counterma'nd. ti.a. [contremander
French.]
I. To order the
contrary to what was
ordered or intended before ; to contradift, annul, or repeal a command.
ft.ttcs

nororioully

irreligious,

a

fecrct

and

irrcfiftifcle poacr coun.irmaudi their dcepvft
projedls, and faiitti their poUciqs )»iUi frullration

and

a «utfc.

der, and

^

5j»,i.

fi'f'i'

Uaytvard.

Means of oppofition

2.

;

means of coun-

teraftion.

He thinking himfelf contemned, knowing no
countermine

.-igainft contempt but terror, began to
nothing pafs, which might bear the colour of
a faulr, without (harp punifliment.
Sidney,

A window or light oppofite to

difadvantage.

In

After this they rained the w./.ls, laid the pewrammed the mouths but the citijens
made a countermine, and thereinto they poured fuch
a plenty cf water, that the wet powder could not

make

and guard.] A fmall rampart, with parapet and ditch, to cover fome part of
the body of the place.
Military Dia.
Counterli'cht. ;;./ [from ««/;/fr and
light.]

A well or hole funk into the ground,]

from which a gallery or branch runs out
under ground, to feek out the enemy's
mine, and difappoint it. Military Did,

goge.]

them fit each other.

Farrier's Dili.

^

^
Countermi'ne.
;;./ [counter and mine.

Counterga'ge. K.f. [from coiwier and

Countercua'rd. n.f [from

Now of my own experience, not by talk,
Huw ctiunlirfc'ii a coin they are, who friends

it

in the prefence of them all.
2.

Co'ukterfort. ff./. [from counter anti

:

Co' u N T E R F E I T. adj. [from the verb.
I. That which is made in imitation of

chants, that

!

The aft of counterfeiting;

true one.

of goods belonging to

unnatural motions and countcrfemunii
muft a medley of intemperance produce in the
body
When I behold a falhionable table, I fancy
.1 fee innumerable diftempers lurking in
ambufcadc

Not in ufe.

tbu impollure, although it appears

A fecond or third mark put on a bale

1

What

forgery.

is contained in

Burnet's Theory of the Earth.

ferment.] Ferment oppofed to ferment.

French.]

0/

Counterma'rk. n.f. [counter Sind mar}.]

Counterfe'rment. n.f. [counter and

Counter fe'sance.w./. [ctntrefaifance,

alteration

They make him do and undo, go -forward and

Shakef/ieare't Cor'iolar.ut.

Jt happens, that not one fingle line or thought

.'

march

backwards by fuch countermarches and retra£liohs,
as we do not willingly impute to wifdom.
}

the infinuating nod, and be off to them moft
cour.ter-

Mdi/onS Sfeaator.

;

conduift.

of the
Camden.

H^allir.

Shadows to ctunlerfrit that face

Change of meafures ;

2.

corrupted by counterftiten, to the great good

among the diflies.

march backward

How are fuch an infinite number of things
placed with fuch order in the memory, notwitliftanding the tumults, marches, and coiiniermarclcs
of the animal fpirils ?
Calliir on Thouglt.

[from counter-

pies to pafs for originals.
Henry the Second altered the coin, which was

f"'h'

Retroceffion ;

in a different direftion from the former.

Since the wifdom of their choice is rather to
have my cap than my heart, I will praflife

That f OBBffr/'ciri the perfon of a king?

llar-oei.

Repeal of a former order.

ther, intended to pafs for that which it
refcmbles ; a forgery.
My father was I know not where.
When I was ftampt. Some coiner, with his tools.
Made me accunterfcit; yet my mother fce.-n'd
The Dian of that time.
Shaie/feare'i Cymbilinc.
There would be no counterfeits but for the fake
of fomething real ; though pretenders feem to be
what they really are not, yet they pretend to be
fomething that really is.
Tdktjon.

{{rom ctunttr.
feit.] Falfely; fiftitioufly ; with forgery.

What art thou,

^

llcaker,

To prohibit.

3.

or

To copy with an intent to pafs the copy Co'uNTERFEiTLY. <ra«if.
for an original ; to forge.

a.

For us to alter any thing, is to lift up ourfctvei
againll God, and, as it wete, to countermand him.

Avicen cjuniermandt letting blood in choleric!:
bodies, becaufe he efieems the blood a bridle
of

commonwealth.

Fr.]
1.

to contradift the orders of

;

another.

falhions, or in fit anfweis to queftions, to come
near the rcfemblance.
Bacor.

it is

and all becaufc there is no ccunierciiidence,
nor any witnefs, that appears againft it.
BurMt'irheorj of the Earth.

To oppofe

2.

;

man, who hatli

either in gellure

We have litlle reafon to queftion his tellimony Co'uNTERFEiTER.
»./
in this point, feeing
backed by others of good
credit i

a

of'

Shaiefpeare.
This pried, being utterly unacijuiinted with the
true perfon, according to whofe pattern he fliould
(hape his ccunterftit, yet could tiiink it polJble for

7a Counter dra'w. v. a. [from counter
and dra'w.']

c o q

let

3

A (Iratagem by which any contrivance

is

defeated.

The matter being brought to a trial of (I-.ill, tlie
countermine was only an adt of felf-prcferv.itiun.

L'F/!range.

To Countermi'ne.

v.

[from

the
noun.]
I. To delve a pafiage into an enemy's
mine, by which the powder may evaporate without mifchief.
3

Jt

a.

2.

To

"

Z,

To counterwork

;

to defeat

admitted to fay what he can for the fafeguard of his eflate, that which the de-

by fecret

jpeafures.

Thus infallibly it muft be, if Cod do not miraCuloufl) ciunlirmiiu us, and do more for us than we
Dicay nf Piity.
cin do againft ouifclvcs.

Countermo'tion. »./. [counter and moContrary motion ; oppofition of
motion.

mandant allegeth againft this requeft is

i«

a cnuMirmotwti, or equivalent

To Counterplo't. "v. a.

another ; to obviate art by art.

Counterplo't. n.f. [from

The wolf that had a plot upon the kid, was
confounded by a caumarpht of the kid's upon the
wolf j and fuch a cnunicrplot as the wolf, with all
his fagacity, was not able to fmell out. L'Epratige.

Digh 0" 't' Scul.

If any of the returning ffirits (hoilld happen to
foul upon others which arc outward bound,
thefe cikntirmaticiu would oveifct them, or occalion
fall

in fquares, commonly fpoken counterpane. See Counterpane.

Povntermu're. n. /. [contremur, Fr.]

A wall built up behind another wall, to

To CouNTERPo'isE. T. «.

fupply its place.

it feldum

1.

touched.

[counter

and

A

»./. [couKtcr and noi/f.]
which any other noife is
.

A found by
overpowered.
They endeavoured, either by a conftant fucceffioD of fenluaJ delights to

CoOKTERo'pENlNG.
opening.]

foijir.g

/

«.

[counter

An aperture or vent on the

woven

in

It

is

1

; equivalence of weight;
equal force in the oppofite fcale of the
balance.

Equiponderance

And :cU her file is thine

;

2.

The ftate of being phrced in the op-

Harris.

L'EJIrange.

Oh counUrpat
:

his words, anJ to find out the cijMnterpart to each

Dyden,
in another lanfuage.
In the difco»eiy, tlie twp different plots look like
emnlerpartt and copies of one another.
/IJifipn's Spe^ator.

CouNTKRPi. e'a. n./. [froai counter and
In law, a replication : as, if a
ftranger to the afUon begua dz&te to be

plea.]

Their generals, by

tlieir

credit in

Such were our ci-untertides at land, and fo
Prel'aging of the fatal blow,

In your prodigious ebb and flow.

Counterti'me. n.f

muft be adapted to the caufe; for
poifun from fubiimale corrofive, and

Ciuntcrpoijcns

Arbiiibr.it.

arl'enick.

Dryden,

[counter axA time;

contretemps, French.]
1.

The defence or refiftance of a horfe,
intercepts his cadence, and the
meafure of his manage. Farrier'' s Did.
that

CountBrpo'ison. n.f. [counter ind poifon.] Antidote ; medicine by which the
effefts of poitbn are obviated.

Sv^ift,

Contrary tide ; fiuftuations of the water.

were, with the magiftrates and other civil officers,
a fort of counterpoije to the power of the people.

Swift.

friends with countertenor

Counterti'de. n.f. [counter and irile.']

Bacon.
the army,

were,

am deaf: this deafnefs unqualifies me for all

company, except a few

The lecond nobles are a counterpoife to ihe higher
nobiiity, that they grow not too patent.

it

voices.

Equipollence ; equivalence of power.

example, in

Of our foft fex ; well are >cu made our lords
So bold, fo great, (o god-like are you.form'il,
How can yon love fa filly thmgs as women? Dryd.^
He is to confider the ihoughrof his author, an<|

parts of mufick ; by called, as
oppofite to the tenor.
i

Tile pendulous round eaith, with balanc'd air
Milton's Puradije Lifi.
In counlcrpoi/e.

for a ctuntirfurl of thi» fable.

Chambers.

lord chancellor.

In ivory coffers I have ftufTd ray crowns;
Jn cypnisthclls my arras c'iunttrpaniii. Shakefpearc.

with tht lawj of £nglanJ ; io that they frcm to
be, 13 )t w«ie, copies or auunrferit one of another.
little's L.IW ^J England.
An old fellow with a young wench, may pafs

Thus

more authentick.

Counterte'nor. n.f. [from counter
and tenor.] One of the mean or middle

polite fcale of the balance.

3.

it

SlaUJpfure': All's luell sbat ends v:ell.
Faftcning thit to our exa£t balance, we put a
metalline coniitirfoife into the oppofite fcale.
Boyle's Spring ef the Air.

terpoint.

anfwers to another, as the two papers
of a contr.ift ; the p.irt which fits another, as the key of a cypher.
li fome th Rgs the laws of Normandy agreed

to render

charters are figned by the king, and
counterfigned by a fecretary of ftate, or

to whom I proroife

Th' Eternal hung forth his golden fcalcs,
Wherein ail things created firft he Weigh'd,^

;

of a fuperiour, in quality of fecretary,

A ccumcrpoift, if not in thy eftate,
A balance more replete.

written, according to etymology, coun-

.CounteRPa'rt. n.f. [counter AttA part.]
The correfpondcnt part the part which

parapet and glacis and fo it is to be
underllood when it is faid the enemy
lodged ihemfelves on the ccunterfcarp.
Harris,
To Countersi'cn. t;. a. [from counter
and fign.] To fign an order or patent

Take her by the hand.

Fr.]

fometimcs

[itovn couttterini

pcife.]

A'v/f.

fijuares.

many freeholders of Englilh will be able to

Co'uNTERPOiSE. n.f.

for our

A coverlet for a bed, or any thing elle

fcarp.] That fide of the ditch which is
next the camp, or properly the talus that
fupports the earth of the covert-way
although by this term is often underftood the whole covert-way, with its
:

When the leail ccuti:crfacii are mjije to thcfr
[contrepoint,

running through the
hands, and refting in the power, of many fereral
perfons, is fufficient to aigue aj;d convince all manner of falfchood.
Bacon.

To aft with equal power againft any
!>a

Contrary raeafure ; attempts in opppfiion to any fcheme.

TOal"conten:s.

controlment.

To produce a contrary adion by an Co'untersc ARP. n.f. [fxom cotinter xad.

beard and to c oiinrrr^oi/e the reft. Sptnfcrai Ireland.

Cownterpa'ce. n.f. [counter &ni. pace.]

Co'unterpaNE. »•/.

;

ctunterrolmeiitSj whertof each,

one another, ought to be reciprocal.

perfon or caufe.

Sharp's Surgery.

enough

A counter account

Thi'! manner of exercifing of this ofEce, hath
many teftimonics, interchangeable warrants, and

mikir.s.

maik the place for a c(^iiierofir,'mg.

olurions, it will then be time

rol.]

a plummet faftened about the pulley to the axis.

A tent, plugging up the orifice, would make the
matter tecur to the part Jirpoi'ed to receive it„an«]

Counterro'lmbnt. n.f. [from counter-

The beavlnels of bodies muft be ccunttrpafid by

3.

To preferve the

fpoken, control.]

power of detefting frauds by another ac-

equal weight.

and

contrary fide.

it is

Dighy on thf Scul.
2.

Chamhtrt,

with a'lponge.

To COUNTERRO'L. <i/. a. [counter and
roll.
This is now generally written as

count.

to be equi-ponde-

chirm and lull aflecp,

or elfe by a caintemtije of reyellings and tictou'exccflTet to dtowa, the fofter vhifpers of tjieir
Calnmy'i Sermon.
confciencc.

To Counterpro've. v. a. [from counter
and pro've.] To take off a defign in
black lead, or red chalk, by palung it
through the rolling-prefs with anoUier
piece pf paper, both being moiftened

The charges of the anion. Stakefprare's Cariolanus.
The force and the diftance of weights counter-

natural.'] Contrary to nature.
confumf.ti-n is a ccunUrnaturai hefiick exHarvryoti C^njlmfthns.
tenuation of the body.

Co u R T E R N o'l s E

;

and

narchy was' yielded as a preliminary, was ftruck
out of the ccuolerfryti'i by tbe Dutch.
Stvift.

rant to ; to aft againil with equal weight.
Our fpoils we have brought h»iT)e
Do more than coumerpeijc a full tl^ird part

Kr.ollo.

Counterna'tx/rai. adj.

To counterbalance

[uutttet

Correfpondcnt part of a fcheme.
A deax reafon why they ne^ cr fent any forces to
Spain, and why the obligation not to enter into a
tieaty of peace with Frar.cc, until that entire moproject. ]

[countcr z.x\ii

poife.]

The great fliot flying through the breach, did
beat down houfes j but tl-x cJunurir.urey new built
againft the breach, ftinding upon a lower giound,

A coverlet woven

Co'unterpoint. ».yr

Collier.

a later arrival.

the verb.]

An artifice oppofed to an artifice.

pUin by this, that any body which is
muft needs prcfs again on the body that

ptclfes it.

and

[counter

Counterpro'ject. n.f.

To oppofe one machination by

plot.]

to one, is
prefled

Coaue/L

called a counterplea.

tion.']

That refinance

c o u

c o u

c o u

2.

Defence ; oppofition.
Let checrfulnels on happy fortune wait,

And give not thus the countertlme to fate.
Dryden's Aarenpseke.

n.f. [counter and turn.]
CountErpre'ssure. n.f. [counter and •Countertu'rn.
cataftifis, called
tjic Romans ftatus, the
preffure.]

Oppofite force ; power afting

in contrary direftions.
Does it not all mechanick heads confound.
That troops of atoms from a'l parts aiound.
Of equal number, and of equal force.
Should to this finglc point dircdt their courfc;
That fo the ctiunitrpr;jfurc ev'ry way,
Of equal vigour, might their nnj^tions flay.
And by a fteady poifc the whole in quiet lay ?

"^

£l»(i3»'.re.

The
by
height and lull growth of the play, we may call
properly the cc^ntertiirn, which dcftroy^ that cxpe£latiun, embroils the aOion in new difficulties,
and leaves you far diftaut from that hope in which
Drylcn on Bramtitick Pocfy.
it found you.

To COUNTER VA'IL. -v. a. [conha and
-valco, Latin.] To be equivalent to ; to
have equal force or value; to aft againft
with equal power.
Jn

G O U

c o u

CO'UNTRY. n.f. [conlree, Fr. cantrata,

All that have bufinefs to the court, and all
coiimrymca coming up to the city, leave their wives
in the country.
Craunt.

c o u
men there may be found fuch quali-

In fome
ties

as

art

able

to

countervai! thofe

exceptions

Low Latin

which might be taken againft cbcm, and Tuch nen's
authority is not likely to be ihaJccn eft'.
haskin
Aud therewithal h^ Aercely at him flew,
bis fword forth

drew,

be informed.

Fairy S^uefn,
The outward dreams, which defcend, mull be
of fo much force as to' ccuntervj'il all that weight
whereby the afcending fide does exceed the other.

2.

Equal weight ; power or vaine fuiiicient
to obviate any cSeEL or objeftion.
2, That which has eqoal weight or value
with fomething elle.
1.

3.

Surely, th:: prclent pleafurc of a finful aft is a

a poilure in which two
perlbos front each other.
Mean while, ere thus via iinn'd and judg'd on

In cour.urvirw,

AH'tyn^t PaiaJi/c Lofi.

2. Contrali ; a pofition in which two diffimilar things illuftrate each other.

on purp>f« to place it in cimniervinii or conttalt
with that of the otlier company.
Sivifi.
To Counts rwo'rk. v. a. [counter and
To countcraft ; to hinder any
•u;cri.'\

alfo

from another

pofitive infinite, than the ccutitry fellow had of the
water which was yet to pafs the channel of the
river where be flood.
.
l.oclt.
Talk but with country people, or young people,
and you ihall find that tiie notions they apply this
name to, are fo odd, that nobody can imagine they
were taught bj a rational man.
Locke.
A country gentleman, learning Latin in the
u.^ivcrfity, removes thence to his maaCon-houfe.

Pcpt.

\_iomitiJfa,L3.X.. comtrjfe,

1 take it, fhe that carries up thj train,
Ii that old noble lady, the duchefs o( Norfolk.

—It is, and all t!.c rell are ccumiffei,

fhe

was living, and

fo gratefully

The low mechanielcs of a country town do lorae-

honoured afttr

what outdo him.
Locke.
Come, we'll e'en to our country feat repair,
T. e native home of innocence and love. Norrii,

Dryden.

Co'uNTiNC-HousE. ti.f. [count and
ht>ufe.'\ The room appropriated by traders
to their books and accounts.

2.

3.

bind,

the'r profit has brought chem in
more than tfeir tr.ide can well imploy; and tiieii
till

.4.

upon enip'/''"g them.

Wc. make a y^t^r.try man dumb, whom we

reckoned.

t,
.

and gave tint earldom to him and his heirs, to hold
the fame ita libcre aigladsum,Jicut rex l.miiit /Ing-

Opc bom in the fame country, or trai^
Locke.

6cc, who comes

Chatahirs.

CO'UPLE. n.f. [coupL; Fr. copula, Lat.]

A ciuin or tie that holds dpgs together.

My countryman ; but jet I know Mm not.
I

Sl'jixffcare': Maciuh.

Bu; oh, her mind, that orcus which includes
L^ioni of roifchief, ctuntUfi multitudes
Of firmer cu. ft s.
Domn.
By one ir*r>tfji fum of woes oppreft.
Hoary will', ere;, and igno,-antof reft,

Hr.mer, great bard

1

der the conduct ,ot one whom ihey dnnotconfider

only as their leader, but as their oumryman.

,,

yiil.Hftm on the Jf'ar,
;

2.

A rullick J one that inhabits the rural
parts.

'

Shc:k'cfpeur€.,

li is in

S .atch'd their fi^railinns from degrading profe.

Thus, thro' the round of age, to childhood we re'""•
P,hr.

I'll keep my ftablc-fland where
my wifi ; Jil go in ««//« with hor.

'

fome fort with friends ns it is w\ih dogs

in couflcs i they fhould

And fee tiiclr battles in eierual hgii:.
Prior.
The Bricifh I'olJii-rs adtwith greater vigour un-

We find the vital fpringi relax'd and worn;

lodge

Than when 1 feel and fee no further trij^ her.

fo fate oroaln'd, ar.ife
j

And, bold as wore his cmmrymen in fight,

Dviviet.

dancing, vvh.-'n one leg is a little bent
and fufpcndcd from the ground, and with
the other a motion is made forwards.

1.

hae ?

ad or'jnam.

COVPE'E. n. /. [French ] A motion in

/. [frOHl COUttt ry TiXlA

of ground.

ShaK

Pot it Oiijff,y.

The gall.int, young, and/ noble gentleman.
The county Paris. Slai/ptjr^'s Romeo andji.liet.
He mai!e Hujh Lupu? county pjlatinc of Cherter,

mait.'\
1.

Ifee his iticAds o'erwhelia'd beneath the mj;n.

obfolfiie.

Dryiicns Dufrefny.

CO'UNTRYMAN.

Ay, tear f ;r 'ear, and loilng kifs for kifs,
Thy brMhci Marcus tcndrs »n thy iips
O were the fum "( thefe rliat I (Tiouli pay
CsurtUji ai d infiriite, yet would I pay tliem.

Mdifon's SfeStator*

/'ifi^

will

done to a poor'

An earldom.
3. [Compte.l A count; a lord. Now wholly

,

not allow to fpeak but by the rules of grammar.

fee juilice

2.

2 Maccabin, vii. ay.

LotL:

Co'tJWTLESS. aifj. [from couirt.'] Innumerable ; without number ; not to be

I fee, I cried, h.s woes, a cmniUfi train

where he would go to

widow-woman, and her fjtherlefs children.

cruel tyrant to fcorn, fpaltc

Rude; ignorant; untaught.

Shehfjxart'i Henry IV,
the laft cour.iy (eflinns,

He cnught his dcith

Peculiar to a region or people.
in her country language.

idle bagsc'jniberini,' their cnnring-houfit, put them

<

As wc will ours.

Of an intcreft opposite to that of courts
She laughing the

'

Coive/l.

Dilcharge your powers unto their feveral cotirtiis.

as, the country patty.

Men in tr;ide feldom think of laying out money
upBii

for the county-court.

Itocke.

VW.

Sbahjfeart'i Hairy
It is the peculiar happinclj of the nutitifi ot
Abingdon to ha.c been fo truly loved by you while
fhe was dead.

cient borough? upon which our princes
have thought good to beftow extraordinary liberties. Of thefe London is one,
York another, the city of Chefter a
third, and Canterbury a fourth.
And
to thefe may be added many mote ; as
the county of the town of Kinglloli upon
Hull, the county of the town of Haver- fordwert, and the coitn/y of Litchfield.
County is, in another fignification, ufed

that owes her

tceie.
1 never meant any other, than that Mr. Trot
fhould confine hjmfelf to roi/iioy dances. Hfeffator.
He comes no nearer to a poiitive, clear idea of a

The lady of an earl or count.

French.]

(hilling

three, the remaining debts in each ol" their hands

whole :

tt./.

corporate, which are certain cities or anhaving

that,

arc c^iual ?

effeft by contrary operations.
But heav'n's great view is one, and that the

Co'uNTESS.

a

only acknowledg,
and fovereign.

their I'uperior

But this power has, by a ftatute in
Henry Vlll. his time, been much abridgcd.
There are likewife counties

received a fhiUing from one that owes her three,

and

things touching juftice as abfolutely

ing him

Sbakcffeaii Henry IV.

Ruftick ; ruraJ ; villatickj
Cannot a country wench know,

lieth within feme
Every county is governed by a

as the prince himfelf,

Co'uNTRY. adj.

have drawn fome line: of Llngtr's charafter,

That f«fr«rw*rh each folly and caprire;
That difappoints th'cfted of ev'ry vice.

all

The inhabitants of any region.
All ihc couti.'ry, in a general voice,
Cried hate upon him; all their pray'rs ar.d love

I.

adminillration of
no part of the

is

ments of the king's courts. Of thefe
counties four are termed county-palatines, as that of Lancafter, Chefter,
Durham, and Ely. A county-palatine
is a jurifdidion of fo high a nature,
that the chief governors of thefe, by
fpecial charter from the king, feut out
all writs in their own name, and did

The place which any man inhabits, or
in which he at prefent refides.
Send out more hortes, ficirre the couriry round,

Were feton Hereford.

the

yearly officer, called a IherifF, who puts
in execution all the commands and judg-

Pofc.

earth.

Within the gatea of bell fat fin and death.

for

kingdom but what
county.

1

5.

divided,

juftice ; fo that there

The king fc' on foot a reformation in the ornaments and advantages of our couelry.
Span.
favc my ccuetry, beav'a
fliali be your Mt.

Countervib'w. b./. [counter and viiiv.]

A fhire; that is, a circuit or portion
of the realm, into which the whole land
is

rural parts.

foil.

poor csunnr-zv'tl tor the bittemefs of the rcvieif
wnich bifint where the action ends, and IjlU fo,
ever.
Smlbi Strnctu,

Oppofition ;

The parts of a region diftant from ci-

Hang thole that talk of fear. Skakeff. Macbelh.
The place of one's birth; the native

4.

L'EJIr,

[comte. Fr. comitatut,Lz.

tin.]
I.

Nature alone fhould be the architcil
She 'd build it mrire convenient than great,
And doubtlef«in the cMnrrychufe her feat. CmiiUy.
1 (ee them hurry from country to town, and then
from. the town back ajjain into the country. Sfefl.

Counterva'il. n.f. [from the verb.]

a hufbandman.

;

Co'vNTY. n.f.

Would I a houfe for h-ippinefs creft.

account, the profit at lall will hardly ccunter-vail the
inconveniencics tliat go along with it. L^FJirar.ge.

A farmer

A cour.lrymati took a boar in his corn.

Spran.

ties or courts ;

\Vc arc to compute, that, upon balancing the

I

3.

A trail of land; a region, as diillnguiftied from other regions.
They require to be examined concerning the

defcriptions of thofe countries of which tiiey would

And him with equal valour ccuntirvairj.

1.

fuppoled to be contrafted

fi-om conterraia.^
1.

And with important outrage him afTaii'd;
.Who, foon preparM to field',

;

humour.
2.

Two

;

be of the fanie'fine aril

VEjlranyt.

,,

a brace.

He was taken up by a tcufU of fhepberi|,;^<l
by rl.em brought to iifc again.
ti^nn.

A

fchoclmafter, who fhall teach my ton and
y urs, I will provide; yea, though thu three Jo aift

me a »u/>/e of hundred pounds.
3

I

*

.

'

jifrhmi,

A pi«e

*

c o u

G O U

A piece of cTiryftal inclofcd a caij>U of drops,
<nhuh looked like water when they were Oiaken,
though perhaps Uiey ve nothing but' bubbles of air.

•

••»

A needlcfs Alexandrine ends the £>ng.
along.

X-ticki.

So fljall all the coufUi three,

,

(Eyer true in lo»ing be.

Shak. ATidf. Nhbt't Dr.

Oh! alas!
1 loft a ccufle, that 'twixt heaven and earth

.

1 he king.btcoming graces.
Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
I have no rcliih of them.
Shatcjpeare's Macbeth.

All fucceeding generations of men are the pro-

To Co'upLE. <t». a.
1 .

Now mingled with their courage.
Hope arms

To chain together.

.

Dry den.

What greater ills have the heavens in ftorc,

breaks out on all occafions, without judgment or
difcretion.
That courage which arifes from the
fenfe of our duty, and from the fear of oft'ending
Him that made us, afts always in an uniform
manner, and according to the didiatcs of right reafon.
Addifons Guardian.
Nothing but the want of common courage was
the caufe of their misfortunes.
Sicift,

And wherefoe'er we went, like Juno's fwans,
went auflid and infeparable.

Sbakefftare'sAiyou Hie !l.
Put the tacbes into the loops, and ccuf/e the tent
together that it may be one.
Exodus, xxvi. 11.
They behold your chafte converfation coupled

«"* 'ti"--

I

Peter, iii. i.

Their concernments were fo coupled, that if
nature had not, yet their religions would have
made them brothers.
Scuih.

Brave ; daring ; bold ; enterprizing ;
adventurous ; hardy ; ftout.
And he that is courageous among the mighty,

1

1 hat man makes a mean figure in the eyes of
who is meafuring fylbbks and ci'upting
Thimes, when he fliould be mending his own foul,
and fecuring his own immortality.
Pcpe.

To marry; to wed

.

;

(hall flee away

ill

2.

He is very courageous
into the water.

_

battle with him.

is

brutes of fcvcra'l

After this alliance.
match with hinds, and wolves with

durft not try the matter by the fworJ.

2 Maccabees, xiv. 18.

Coura'nt. In./, [couraoie, Fr.]
Coura'kto. 1 Corant.
1.

Oieep,

like

tooth in

Dryden's Sfanijh Friar.

Couple. BEG CAR. n. f. [couple znA beg.
gar.'\ One that makes it his bufinefs to
marry beggars to each other.
No coupteOtggiir in the land
S-xift.

:

_

2.

To the courfts we have devifed ftudding-fails,
fprit-fails,

Wh-n the (late of the controvecfy it plainly
determined, it muft not be altered by another
difputant in the courfe of the difputation. kVatls.
Order of fuccei&on

8.

:

as, every

one

in :

his courfe.
If any man fpeak in an unknown tongue, let it
be by two, or at the moft by three, and that by
courfe;

and let one interpret.

1

Cor, xiv. 17.

Stated and orderly method, or manner.

9.

.

If (he live long.

And in the end meet the old courfe of death.

Women will all turn monfters.

Sbak. KingLeeir,

The duke cannot deny the courfe of law.
Shakefpeare*
If God, by his revealed declaration, fir.'t gave
rule to any man, he, that will claim by that title,
muft have the fame pofitive grant of God for his
fuccclTion ; for, if it has not directed the courfeof
its defccnt and conveyance, no body can fucceed to
this title of the fiift ruler.
Locke.

10. Series of fucceffive
procedure.

arid

.

,

'

methodical

The glands did refolve during her courfe of
phyfick, and (hscontinieth very well to this day,
ff^feman's Surgery,

The elements of an art exhibited and

explained, in a methodical feries.

>

Hence

our cour/cs of philofophy, anatomy, chymiftry, and mathcmaticks.
Chambers.
12. Conduft ; manner of proceeding.
Grittus perceiving the danger he was in, began
with himfelf what courfe were heft for
him to take.
Kmlla.

That worthy deput)' finding nothing but a com-

mon mifery, took the beft coarfeht polTibly could

wliile I

.

procefs.

a

the better,

have

Shakefpeare.

to eltablifls a -commonweahh in Ireland,

Any thing that fpreads quick, as a pa-

In the fatnefs of thefe purfy times.
Virtue itfelf of vice muft pardon beg.

Yea, courb and woo, for leave to do it good.
SLakeJpeare's Hamlet.

Co'uRiER. n.f.

[courier, French.]
A
meflenger fent in halle ; an exprefs ; a

•

Raleigh's EJ'ays.

why, he is able to lead her a

To CouRB. 'J. n. [courber, French.] To
bend ; to bow ; to ftoop in fupplication.
Not in ufe.

Twoverfes; a pair of rhimes.^

and top-fails.

Progrefs from one gradation to another

7.

Davies on Ireland,

per of news.

Co'upLET. «./. [French.]
Then wo^ld Ihey caft away their pipes, and
holding hand in band, dance by the only
cadence
<«£ their voices, which they would ufc in
finjing
foaie flicrt ctufltis, whereto the one
half beginning, the other half fiiould anfwer.
iutn/y.
Then at the laft, an only etuflit fraught
W(U» iacaz unmeaning thing they call a tUought

a, maid

my head

ccuranlo.

is

to doubt

A nimble dance.
I'll

And every cteatore nuplt with his foe,

See

.

performed.

1 1..

Nitannr hearing of the manlinefs and the courageoufnefs that they had to fight for their country,

bv

Hate's Origin tf Mankind.

1.

[from coura-

rage.

in Africa,

E'er joln'd fuch numbers hand in hand.

any motion is performed.
means by which the courfe

6. Sail ;

geous.] Bravery ; boldnefs ; fpirit ; cou-

fpec ics, at water, and the
promifcuous couplings of
niaJcs and females of fevcral fpecies.

Let tigers

Bacon's Henry Vi I.

Coura'geous NESS. ti. /.

Milton': Paradife Regain'd.

reafon of the meeting together of

Shakefpeare.

the plain, the fields there being open and champaign: the earl louro^fcj^ji came down, and joined

And ciupted with them, and begot a race.
That great variety of brutes

mad, about his throwirig

Bravely ; floutly ; boldly.
The king the nexcday prefented him battle upon

Waters in Africa being rare, divers forts of
beafts come from fcveral parts to drink
and fo
;
being refrcflied, fall to coaple, and many time with

e^„«.

by Shakefpeare for

S'tdney.

Ground on which a race is run.
5. Track or line in which a Ihip fails, or

Atterbury.

Coura'ceously. adv. [from courageous.]

TeCo'cpLE. I'.n. Tojoin inemtraces.

Thou, with thy lofty crew,
Caft wanton eyes on the daughters of men,

men conlpired to Icd'en it.

It is ufed ludicroufly

outrageous.

Sidney.
I am juft going to aflift with the archbifliop, in
degrading a parfon who couplet all our beggars, by
which 1 Ihall make one happy man.
Swift.

naked in Siat day.

Amos, ii. 16.
Let us imitate the courageous example of St.
Paul, who chofe then to magnify his office when

to join in wedlock,

1 ftall rejoice to fee you fo coupled, as may he
fit both for your honour and your
fatisfadlion.

fcveral kinds.

tut.

4.

Coura'geous. aiij. [from courage.]

reafon,

3.

Dinham,
Tilt ; aft of running in the lifts.
But this hot knight was cooled with a fall, 1
which, at the third courfe, he received of PhaUn-

when it is only a kind of inftinft in the foul, it

To coB/./^ coming harms with forrow paft. Sidiiiy.
Still we

tow'rs

their

Courage, that grows from conftitution, very often
forfakes a man when he has occafion for it ; and

Shattffrart.

.

3.

Shak. Cymieline.

from

their courage ;

they throw
Their darts with double force, and drive the foe.

Huntfman, I charge thee, tender well my hounds;
And CiufU Clowder with the deep-mouth'd Brach.

^, To join one to another.

And when we had finilhed our courfe from
Tyre, wc came to Ptolemais.
Afis, xxi. 7.
A light, by which the Argive fquadron fteers
Their filent courfe to Ilium's well known (hore.

Their difcipllae

Bent/ey's Scrmcm.

[copula, Latin.]

career.

r'fver.

Latin.] Bravery ; aftive fortitude ; fpi-

DryJtH.

geny of one primitive ccufle.

Szvift.

rit of enterprize.

:

Knolles's Hiftcry,

And Come (he arms with finewy force.
And fome with fwlftnefs in the courfe.
Cowley^
2. Paflage from place to place ; progreis.
To this may be referred, the courfe of a

CO'URAGE. n.f. [courage, Fr. from cor,

He faid the careful ccxfle join their tears,
And then invoke the gods with pious prayers.

-

Race ;

1

Anon, as patient as the female dove,
Ere that her golden couplets are difclos'd,
His filence will fit drooping. Sbakelpeare's Hamlet.

Hhaiejf. fyiuicr'i TaU.

hive read ol a feigned coainionwcakh, where
the married oufit are permitted, before they con'tniQ, to fee one another naked. Bac. Nnv jitlaiilh.
1

with hi; army toTauris.

COURSE. »./. [cour/e. Ft. eurjus, Latin.]

A pair, as of doves.

2.

•Might thus have ftood, begetting wonder, as

You gracious caijJi do.

P(^e.

In Pope I cannot read a line.
But with a figh 1 with it mine;
When he can in one cciplet fix
More fenfe than 1 can do in fix.
It gives me fuch a jealous fit,
I cry, pox take him and hit wit !

A male and his female.

3.

This tWng the wary balTa well perceiving, by
fpecdy couriers advertifed Solyman of the cnemy'i
purpofe, requefting him with all fpeed to repair

That, like a wounded fnakc, drags its (low length

By adding one to one, we have the complex idea

.•fan..;.//.

c o u

runner.
I met a worirr, one mine ancient friend.
Shakefpean't THicn,

it

He placed commiflioners there, who governed
only in a courfe of difcretion, part martial, part

civil.

.

Davies en Ireland.

Give willingly what I can take by force
And know, obedience is your fatcft courfe.
Dtydens Aurengxebe,
But if a right courfe be talccn with children,
there will not be fo much need ai common rewards
and pnnidiments.
Locke,
'Tis time we lliouU decree

WhatfOTT^to take.

Addrfim't Cato.
The fenate obfcrving how, in all contentions,
they were forced to yield to the tribunes and pco.
pie,

.

thought it their wifeft courfe to give way alfo

to time,

Sijift,

!3.

Method

:

c o u

c o u

I am continually ftarting hares for you to narft
cut out for one another ; for

i feeond court of the hm^, but more garnilhed*
with little turrets, or other embellilhmcnts, upon
the wall; and a third court, to fquare with the
front, not to be built but inclofed with a naked
wall.
Bacon.
Suppofe it were the king's bedchamber, yet the
meaneft man in the tragedy muft come and difpatch
his bufinefs, rather than in the lobby or court yard
(which is fitter for him) for fear the ftag: (h <uld
be cleared, and the fcenes broken.
Dryden,

C 6 "O^
13.,

Method of life

train of a£Hons,

;

,

my temper quits an amour jull whc/e thine takes

inent fpirits, as it was ' ippy (lie took a good coarjc;

or othcrwift it would have been tenible.
His addiSion was to courfei vain ;

It ;

we were certainly

A woman of fo workin£.a-nrin*, and fo vehe-

it

Sitliiy,

3.

'His companies unletter'd, rude, and iliallow;
His hours fili'd up with riots, banquets, fports.

up.

Csngrfue's Old Bitehekr.

To put to fpeed

to force to run.
When they have an appetite
To venery, let them not drink nor eat.
;

And Ciurfe them oft, and tire them in th'; heat.
May^s yirgil.

A; the dtx)pfy-man, the r. i.-e he drinks, the
drier he is, and the more he fVill dcfiiei to drink j

?"o

evea fo a finner, the mote he fins, the -apter is he
to fin, and mote defirous to keep (till a coarfe in
Pcrkint.
wickednefs.

Course, ti. «. Torun; toroveabout.

.

Shakefpcare^i Hamlet.

Men will fay,

The blood, before cold and fettled, left the liver

That beauteous Emma vagrant ccarfes took.
Pjia-.
Her father's houfe and civil life forfook.
14. Natural bent; uncontrolled will.
It is bell to leave nature to hct cburje^ who is the
fovereign phvfician in moft difeafes.

13.

white and pale, which is th: badge of pufillanimity
and cowardice; but the (herris warms it, and makes
it ccurfe from the inwards to the parts exireme.
'Shjkefpcarc*s Henry IV,
She did fo courfe o'er my exteiiours, with fu.h
a greedy intention, that the appetite of her eye did
feem to fcorch me up like a burning glaA.

temple.

So every fervant took his courfty
And, bad at firft, they all grew worff.

iViV.

Shakcjpeare's Merry fViiiei of ff^mjfor.

Catamenia.
The ftoppage of women's ccarfeSi if not fuddenly

Ten brace and more of greyhounds, fnowy fair.
And tall as ftags, ran loofe, and coun'd around his

looked to, fets them undoubtedly into a confumption, dropfy, orfome other dangerous dlfeafe.

chair.

The tongue derileth the whole body, and fetteth
Jamtiy iii, 6.

A continued range

of ftones, level or of the fame height,
throughout the whole length of the building, and not interrupted by any aper1 8.

1

A fwift horfe

;

Sbakifpeare's Henry VI,

courfier,

a war horfe :

a.

court baron, held in that behalf.

word
8.

-You are not to waih your hands
have fcnt up your fecond ccurfe.

till

Spcnfer»

Snvift^i DireSiims to the Cook.

So quick retires each nyingr^&r^^, you'd fwear
Sancho's dread do^or and his wand were there.
2C.

Regularity ; fettled rule;

21.

Empty form.

Thy frailer virtue, to betray thy friend ?
Flatter me, make thy««rr, and fay it did

Dryden'i Aurengztbe,
Some fort of people, placing a great part of
theirhappinefsin ftrong drinlc, are always forward
to malce rcftrr to my young mafter, by odering that
which they love beft themfelves.
Locke,
I have been confidering why poets have fuch

and floods appear already crofs'd.

And, ere he ftarts, a thoiifind fteps are loft, Fcpe',.
2, One who purfues the fport of courfing

coner holds his hawk, or a courftr leads his greyhound.
Ifanmer.

Men talk as if they believed in God, but they

COURT. »./. [cour, Fr. hert, Dut. curtis,

i;^ as if they thojght there wai none j their vows
and promifcs arc no more than words of courfe,

low Latin.]
1. The place where the prince refides ; the
palace.
Here d<»you keep a hundred kniglits and fquires,

It (hall

Uckc.

Of

pr.jeaor-.

Sivi/t.

1

WerwrrVhim It the heels, and had a purpofe
To Lc his purvjvor.
Sl.aitffeart's Macbeth,
;il(o

Uijourji'fg of a deer, or hart, with greyhounds.
Jiatin'i Neiural Jhfi-ry.

The hall or chamber where juftice is

Sbakd'pcart.
St. Paul being brought unto the higheft court in
Athens, to give an account of the doftrine he had

.'

3.

:

So cmrt a millreff, flic c-e^iiei; you ;
Let her alone, (he will court you. Bcr. Jonf. Fonfh
Fir'd with her love, and with ambition led.
The oeighb'ring princes aurt her nuptial bed.
Drydiu'i ALi.iid..
Alas
Sempronius, wouldft thou talk of love
To Marcia, whilft her father's life '3 in danger.'

3,

adroiniHered.
Are you acquainted with the difference
Tlut holds this prcfent quellion iu the court ?

In piteous chafe.
Shakiffieare't Aiyoit like it.
The kicg is bunting the deer ; I am ccurfing
myfelf.
Shjkeffeare'i Love'% Labour Lafl,

2. To purfue with dogs that hunt in view.
in (lying of hawks, or
U would be tried

Follow a (hadow, it flies vou ;.

Seem to fly ir, it will purfue

!

Ifaiuh, xx% i.

Pofe's Odvjfiy.

2.

The big round tears
Ccuri'd one another down his innocent nofe

Where 's the thane of CawiJor

.

His exaftnefs, that every man (hould have Kis
due, was fuch, that you would think he had never
San i court : the politencfs with which thisjufticc
was adminiftered, would convince you he never
had lived out of one.
Prior' 1 Dedication,
A fuppliant to your royal court I come.

To Course. i>. a. [from the nDan.]
to purfue.

of its fenfes.

be an habitation of dragins, and a court

for owls.

Stvift to G^rji

compofition in molt

To Co u R T i^. a. [from the noun.]
1
To woo ; to folicit a woman to marriage.

Make it more like a tavern, or a brothel.
Than a grac'd palace.
Shakeffeare'i King Lejr.

courfe.
By fettled rule.
25.
Scafe is of courfe annex'd to wealth and power;
No mufc is proof agaiod a golden (hower. Garib,
Neither (ball I be fo far wanting to myfelf, as
not to dcfirea patent, granted of cturfrto all ufeful

'

wrltiYif.

9. It is often ufed in

^^en n> difordwly, fo dcbauch'd and boldj
That this our court, infeCled with their manners,
Shews like a riotous inn ; epicurifm and luft

mentators of any led, whofe reafonings, interpretiiion, and language, which J have been ufcd to,
will t/fcar/i make all chime that way ; and make
another, and perhaps the genuine meaning of the
author, fcem harlh, (trained, and uncouth to me.

.

ill fuccefs in making their court, fince they are
allowed to be the greateft and beft of all flatterers!
the dcfeiS is-, tliat they flatter only in print or in

hares.

22. 0/coHr/e.
By confequence.
Vi ith a mind unprepuirelTed by doflors and com-

;

Kings in a crowd-would have their vices hid.

A lea(h is a leathern diong, by which a fal-

L'EJirangi,

.

Haft thou-been never bafe ? Did love ne'er bend

;

Hills, vales,

.

Him the prince with gentle court did board.

Drydev't Mneid.
Th' impatient courfer pants in every vein,
And, pawing, feems to beat the dillant plain

after you

SpeBat'jr,

the art of infmua-

Sfenfer.

j

Sbaiejf. Ccrhhnu!.
Then with a fecond covrfc the tables load.
And with full chargers offer to the god. Dryd. ^n.

The art of pleafnig ;
tion.

A pair of courferSf born of he av'niy breed
Who from their noftrils breath'd etherial fire.
Whom Circe ftoh from her celeftial fire.

For a fecond courft of fight.

.

Of Canterbury, accompanied with other
Learned and reverend fathers of his order.
Held a late court at Dunftable.
Skak, Henry VIII,
I have at laft met with the proceedings of the

Then to his abfent gueft the king decreed

Worthy Sir, thou bleed'ft:

;

If any noife or foldier you perceive

Near to the wall, by fomc apparent fign

He proudly pricketh on his courfer (irong,
And Atin ay him pricks wWi Ipurs of (hamc and

Thy excrcife hath been too violent

Any jurifdiftion, military, civil, or ec-.'

The archbilhop

not ufed in profe.

the tuble.

1

Let us have knowledge at the t-owrf of guard.

[from courfe;

wrong.

Perfons v/iio are aflembled for the adminiftration of juftice.
clefiaftical.

French.]

Series of confequences.

To hunt

7.

Tbotrtjon' 1 Autumn,

19.- Number of difhes fet'on at once upon

1.

6.

Dryden,

Co'uRSER. n, f.

Harris.

ture.

Their wiflom was fo highly efteemed, that'
fome of them were always employed to follow the
courts of their kings, to advife them.
temple.

Rclapfing quick, as quickly re-afcend
And mix, and t'nwart, cxtinguiih, and renew,
All ether caurfwg in a maze of light.

16. Orderly ftrnftnre.

on fire the courfe of nature.
[In architefture.]

prince.

All, at once

Harvty en Ccmfumptioitt,

17.

A fmall opening inclofed with houfes,
and paved with broad ftones, diftinguifhed from a llreet.
5. Perfons who compofe the retinue of a
4.

Swift as quickfllver it courfa through

The nat'ral gates and alleys of the body.

Thou might'd as we llroi/rr the pale'trembling veftaJ,
While (he beholds the holy flame expiring.
jiddifon's Cal^J

To folicit

2.

;
to feck.
Their own eafc and fatisfa£lion would quickly
teach children to court commendation, and avoid
doing what they found condemned.
-

Lochc on Education,

to endeavour to pleafe.
3. To flatter
CouRT-cnAei»iN. n.f. {^court and chap'
;

One who attends
celebrate the holy offices.

preached concerning Jelus and the rcfurreftion,
ukV occafion to imprint on thofe ma^irtratcs a

Iain.]

future ftatc.

The maids of honour have, been fuUy<;oom'-f J
by a famous court -ihapliiin.
.5w./>.

Atlcrbury,

Open fpace before a houfe.
You mull have, before you tome to the front,
'biw (iuril j a grew tour! jiain^ wisil a'i\.Ul iLci:t

.

Ev'n now, when filc'nt fcorrt is all they gain,
A thoufand court you, though thcv court\n vain.

Cot/RT-DAY. a. f.

the

king

[court ATttl Jay. ^

to

>

Uay

on whichju;tjce is folvniBly admiojiltvcd.
The

.

The iua« took time to deliberrt*,

^

<,un.Jiy he fpoke.

So geatle of condition was he knowDi
That througli the court bis csurlefy was blown.

mi then"*
Pf-

i«ffe..' '-J

CoURT-DRESSER. «./[««'•' a^d'''"#^-J

One that drefles the court, or perfons
,

fits beftowed

Shakeffeare'i Merchant cf Venice.
Repofe you there, while I to the hardhoufe

X-oc**.

Return, and force their feinted cortcjy.
Shttejftant King Ltar.
When I was laft at Exeter,

Favours or bene-

both worlds for
part with the bleflings of
commillions ; and at
rieafures, «»r//av<wrj, and
ourfeWcs to our luft., we
laft, when we Save fold

We

^

grow fick of our bargain.
«.

The fame ftudy, long continued, is "^

A

'ntole-

Lm^'-

If, fupercilious, haughty, proud,

people.

4.

Co'URTEOUSLY. /J//f. [from cmrtttus.]
RefpedlfuUy ; civilly ; complaifantly.
much
He thought them to be gentlemen of

he let

mo e worth than their habits bewrayed, yet»'''•"'

and wain,

gentleman, as Sir John Suckling.
DnJen on Dramatici Poetry,

Co'uRTSHiP. n.f. [fromcourt.]

The aft of foliciting favour.

1

He paid his co:/rifhip with the crcwd,

:

In tedious eour'Jhif we dcclari- our pain,
Vryden's Indian Emfercr,
Every man in the time oi court/hip, and in the
firft entrance of martiage, puts on a behaviour like
my corrcfpondent*s holiday fuit. Addifon's Guard,

it is

Civility; elegance of manners.

3.

My cour:Jhip to an uiiiverlity.
My modcrty I give to foldierr haie

Toby approaches, and cairt'fia there to me.

Sickefpeare's Kin^ Lor.
'with them there are no ftcws, nodiffolute noojVs.

kind ; nay tlicy
jio amriefiim, nor any thing of that
which
wonder, with deteftation, at you in Europe,

BaccfCi NcviAihm.
permit fuch things.
The Corinthian is a column lalcivioun) decked
fraiiir..

_
like a esuTlenan.
love with
Charixu-i, thr brother of Sappho, in
eftate upon
whole
Rhodope the «ar/«<i«t, ^ent his

^''•^''

her.

»./. [fokrtei/ie, Fr. corlefi<>,

Wc

.

manners ;
I. Elegance of

civility ;

of princes.
~
He hath bceo a ccurlier, he fwears.
to mj'
If any man doubt-; that, let him put me

Sbak/ffeareS Kferry Tt^ives cf H'trdjcr.

Mercbunt cj Icm c.

Vought himfelf to a habit of nrgtea,

and even

of nidenefs tooards the <|ucen.

Cljreidcii.

in lowly (hades
Courlrfy is fooncr found
latrers, thin in tap llry halls.

And courts ol ptmccs, *rt>eace i: 6rft

was njrn d.

.,

^f'

i).->v/.-«.

his attendoBts.

his hoffitality, his

-With f^noky

ia..ftatc.
1 aiii no courtier, nor vetfed

.

One that courts or folicits the favovr of
another.

What
Made thee, all honout'd, honcft Roman Brutus,
With the aim'd lefl, coun'i.is of beauteous freedom.
Sljke/f. Jntony and Claf.
There «a! not among all our princes a greater
'"ot out
cevrtier of the people than Richard UI.j

To drench tli< capitol ?
of ti.ir, but wifdom.

Suckhnf.

!

!

Shakefpierr.

O my brother's child

alas, the

iil

1

.od is fp li'd

Sbjk'Ip. Riv^en and 'Juliet.

Th'^u art, great lord, my father "i filler's (on.
And aiifn gcrman to C'ca; Priam's I'rd.
Shakti'f art's Tniui aKdCrJfida.

I

The principal figure in a piaure, is like a kin^
il
among htsrMW.-Iiri, who ought to dim the luftrc

•

worthy gei.tkm^n

Of my dear kinfman.

!

Siak^Jfcare's /Isytulike It.

You know

fW»,/> to llrangers.
th* -lemCTits
He, who was compounded of all
all kind ol pt»ple,
of affability and feurltfy towatds

Unhappy light

You are a fiittering boy j now, I fee youM b: a

affairi.'

!

Tybalt, my co'/in !

have flatreroi'
I have trod * meifure; 1
fmooti^
aladyi Ih.ivefceen politick with ray friend,
I
with m-ni: enemy ; I have undone three taylors ;
have had four quaiteU, and like to have fongh"

com-

Fea.h^w.

O valiant eoufin

purgation.

plaifance.

•Who hive fetn his' cAate,

Mncbeth unfcam'd him.

fr.sr.

Co'uRTiER. »./ [from ««r/.]
attends the courts
I. One that frequents or

courtier.

to our howfe :
Sir, you are very welcome
than words.
It muft appear in other ways
cemtejy.
I fcant this breath: ng

Any one collaterally related .iiore remotely than a brother or fitter.

1

one.

Italian.]

Lat.]
I.

(hould meet her in my w^iy,
hardly court j'y to each other.

Demii.

CO'USIN. n./. {cotiftn, Fr. con/angtiincus,

That couri'lf to them, do them reverence. Sh^k.
To mate a reverence in the manner
If

j

My patience to i gamcfter's (hare.

The pretty traffickers,

of ladies.

•Tis a brave night to cool a courtezan.

mar-

And ere we fcindncls find, firft meet difdain.

•

now only ufed of women.

2.

to

riage.
Be merry, and employ ypur chlcfeft thoughts
To ccurftiip, and fucli fair oftent? of love.
As rtiall conveniently brcnme yoj there.
Shakejf tare's Merchant of Venke.

Sbakef^iare.

a ftrumpet.

.

Sn<\ft,

The felicitation of a woman

2.

Coiuell.

To perform an aft of reverence

,

As far as niod;-Jl pride allow'd.

To Co'uRTESY. f. ». [from the noun.]

A woman of the

Stalefp'-aret

They can produce nothing fo courtly writ, or
eiprefies fo much the converfation of a

keep the land during his life, and is called tenant per
legem Anglia, or by the courte/y of Eng-

1

In the manner of courts ;

which

hoU upon ccurtefy.

land.

.

elegantly.

in poffeflion, Ihall he

[from courteous.]

Therefore

Co'uRTLY. Wf

.

A

as, to

{corti/atia, low La-

Co'uRTEsy.

flattering.
In our own time (excufe (oxne courtly ftrains)
Pofe.
No wliiier paje than Addifjn's remains.

endeavoured to make her look forr^thing ChnfCongreve' i Old Bachelor
tian-like.
tenure, not of right, but by the fa-

Civility ; «omplaifance.

town ; a proftitute ;

retaining to the court ; elegant ; foft

vour of others;
o/£«^/flW.
A tenure by
;. Courtesy
inheritance,
marry
an
man
if
a
..hich,
getthat is, avvomanfeifedof land, and
teth a child of her that comes alive into
the world, though both tjie child and
were
his wife die forthwith, yet, if (lie

then. n»rf«..y;j> pafs.
not onl;
Whilft Chrift was upon earth, he was
courmujly receive
eafy of accefs, he did not only
tu him, but alio did
all that addreffcd thcmfelves
and down the counnot difdainhimfelf to travel up
Calamy'i Sermom.
the glory of
Alcinous, being prevailed upon by
Broome.
courlcoujiy.
his name, entertained him

Co'uRTESAN. \n. f.
Co'uRTEZAN. J tin.]

Ben jfon/on,

Co'vKTtY.ac/J. [from court.] Relating or

truth on 't i';, 1
I had been her godmother : the

obligThey are one while covrti.ut, civil, and
after, avc luperciing ; but, within a fm»U time
fierce, and extept.ous^.^
lious, (harp, troublefomc,

Co'uRTECUsNESS. »./.

Cjurtling, I rather thou (hould'ft utterly

Difpraife my work, than praife it ftoftiiy.

Dryden'i Juvenal.

his afcent is

Shakcjf cares Concltnui,

tier; a retainer to a court.

;

The poor creature was as full of auriefiei at \t

;

have been fupplc and ctuneoui to the

Lird Digly it Sir Ktnelm Digby.

She brought her father's triumphs in her tram.

gant of manners ; polite ; well-bred
fullofaftsofrefpeft.
and
He hath dcferved worthily of his country who
not by fuch eafy degrees, as thofe

mien ;

of

Co'uRTLiKC. »./. [from court."] Acour-

Some couirry girl, fcarce to a lOBr/yji bred.
Would I much rather than Corn-iia wed j

Co iig-T^ovs. adj. [iTOJovo;/, French.] Ele-

gtace

civility.

The llightefi part that you excel in, is courilinrfs.

made by women.
3. The reverence

long in the lame

rablc to them, as the appearing
clothes or fafhion is to a cnrt-Udy.

complaifance ;

Shdkefptare's Henry IV.
Other ftites, affuredly, cannot be juftly accufcd
for not acfor not (laying for the firft blow ; or
that
cepting Polyphcmus's cnirt^y, to be the lall
Bacon.
fliall be e.iten up.

Shaktjfeart.

m court.

gance of manners ;

A fecond time do fuch tiCDurttfy.

records and judicial proceedings.
He can make obligations, and miv: C'fri-hi-r.d.

French, and as amorous is the
Camden'i Rev^ainu

Co'uRTLiKESS. »./. \itom couftly .^ Ele-

Sound all the lofty inftruments of war,
And by that mufick let us all embrace j
For heav'n to eirth fome of us never (hall

The hand or manner of writing

as the

Italian.

Shakiffeiirc'! R'ubard III.

W.]
/ [^curt and uled
in

lady converfant or employed

courilike

The mayor in «i<rrr^ (hew'd me the caftle.

£««,,«.

CouRT-LADV. ». /. [eouri and lai/y.]

as the Hebrew, or as learned as the Greek, but as
fluent as the Latin, as courteous as the Spanilh, as

;

by princes.

Court-hand.

Elegant ; polite.
Our Engiifli tongue is, I will not fay as fjcred

You fpurn'd me fuch > day ; another time
You call'd me dog and, for thefc csurtt/iet,
money.
I'll lend you thus much

otr

.

See CURTAIN.

Co'uRTLiKB. eiJJ, [court and Wi*.]

Aa aft of civility or refpeft.

.

art*
There are many ways of fallacy ;
refcmblances, by
giving colours, appearances, and

thh ciurt.drefir, fancy.

Co't/RTiMi.

Drydcn'i Tahiti,

ot

^
tuch

rank ; a flatterer.

Court-favour. «./

COW

C O U

c o u

i.

A title given by tiie king to a nobleman, particularly to thofe of the council.

COW. n. /. [in the plural anciently kiiie,
or krtn, now commonly ccvis ; cu. Sax.
The female of tlie bull.;
/{oc, Dutch.]
the horned auiraal with cloven feet, kept
for her milk

and calves.

Wc fee that the liorns of oxen and c«ws, for
the moft p.iit, arc larger th;\n-tlie bull's; whith is
cjulfd by abundance of moirture, which in the
Baicn.
horns of the bull i.^ileth.
After the lever is diminished, ad'es and g >a:s
milk may be neciiTafy ; yt.i, a diet nf «wj milk
hy.man^i Surgery.
alone.

Then, leaving in the fields bis.gtaxii* cctvt,

He fought himlelf fome ho pi table houfe

:

Oood Cretan cntc-laia'd his j^odlike gueft.
Vryd.n's Fable!,

To

cow
To Cow. V. a. [from coward, by contraction.]

with habitual tim' lity.

caufe, which prevails on us to compliment
vices of the great, to applaud the libertine, :ind

laugh v/ith theprophane.

Rsg^n's Sermon!,

Accurfcj be that tongue that tells me foj

For it hatjj cmxi'd my better part of man.
Shdhffcart' i Machtth.

drawn upon themfclves the preflures of w«r fa
Htrjid'iVocalForep,

For when men by their wives are ccfiv^d,
Tlieir horns of courfc are underltood.

Bacon's Natural Hi/lory.

2,

Uudihras.

I do find it cowardly and Vile,
For fejr of what might f/fl, fo to prevent
The time of life.
Shaktjfcare'i Julius Ctrfar.
Let all fuch as can enlarge their cttnlcicnces like
hell, and ftyle a cc-ujardly (ilence in Chrift's caui'c
difcretion, know, that Ciiriil wilt one day fcorn
them.
Stutht

tend cows.

Cow-HOUSE.

The

f. [ffltu and houfc.'\

hoafe in which kine are kept.
You mull houlc your milch-cows, that you give
hay te, in yjur nrM-bnuU all night.

Mertmrr,

Co'wARDLY.

tywardjhif, aflt Fabian.

plant.

a wretch whofe predomi-

As the cockney did to the eels, when fhe put
them

Pyroclcs did fuch wonders, beyond belief, as was
able to lead Mufidnrus to courage, though he had
been born a cnvard,
SiJ/sH,

i'

the party "live ; (he rapt them o' th' cox-.

comhs with a Aick, and cried, down, wantons^
down
Sbahfpeare's King hear,
!

2.

The comb refembling that of a cock,
which licenfed fools wore formerly in
their caps.
There, tal e my coxcomb : why, this fellow has
two of his daughters, and did the third a
blcfling againft his will
it' thou follow him, thou
Shakejpeare,
muft needs wear my coxcomb.
baniflied

:

Welfh ;3.

A fop

;

a fuperficial pretender to

knowledge or accomplilhments.
1

fent to her,

By this fame coxcotub that we have i' th' wind,

to ftoop ; to Ihrink.
Let the pail be put over the man's hfad above
water, then he cower dawa, and the pail be pre/Ted
down with him.
Bacm.

nant paflion is fear.

A fpecies of

from cock'i cornl>.^j
The top of the liead.

1.

Shukcfpeare.

[civrrian,

borrowed from
the manner in which a coiu finks on Jier
knees.] To fink by bending the knees ;

derivation.]
;

71.

tcurier, Fr. Or perhaps

CO'^VARD. »./. [couarJ, Fr. of uncertain

A poltroon

'V.

/,

Coxcomb, n.f. [cock and f»«^, corrupted

:

fpecies of chervil.

ti.

Mullein.

A

Cow-wheat, n. /. \ccnj13 vAfuheat.^ A To Co'wER.

1.

Will mow the cowyj/f polies, faintly fweet. Philips,

Cows-LUNGWoRT.

very paltry boy, and more a coward than a
hare
his dllhonefty appears in leaving his friend
here in neccfTity, and denying him ; and for his

A

Cow-weed. n. f. [cow and njntui.^

Thy little fons

Co'wARDSHip. n.f. [from c<i'warJ.'\ The

very ignorant, efpeciaJiy in the country.
M'yrtimer^s Hujhjndry,

Sidney^

Permit to range the paf^ures : gladly they

KkzIUs,

character or qualities of a coward ;
meannefs ; a word not now in ufe.

grows wild in the

Where the bee fucks, there fuck I
In a coivfitf's bell I lie.
Shakeffeare's Temp^^

who had moft cnoardly turned their backs upon
their enemies.

pagil,

as a lily.

In the manner of a

ad'v.

coward ; ineaniy ; vilely.
H« (hitf ly reproved thcra as men of np courage,

Cow-LEECH. n. /. [ca'M and htch."] One
who profeffes to cure diftempered cow«.
To Cow-leech, v. ». To profefs to cure
Cows.
Though there are many pretenders to the art of
fanieting and efw-lrtciing, yet many of tlicm art

Mean ; befitting a coward ; proceeding
from fear.

'Cow- HERD. fi./. [ceTU, and hypfe. Sax. ^
keeper.] One whofe occopation is to
ft,

Cotvjlip is alfo called

meadows, and is a fpecies of primrofe.
Miller^
He might as well fay, that a ecwjlif is a$ white

in theprefence of Oflavius poor and cnvard/y.

often, that it fccm;» to have fomcwiiat co^urd their

cu)-hppe. Sax.

;

fome think, from their refemblance
of fcent to the breath of a cow ; perhaps
from growing much in pafture grounds,
and o'ten meeting the cciv's /;/.]

An Egyptian foothfayer made Antonius believe
that his genius, otherwife brave and confident, was

By rcafon of their frequent revolts, they have

the ItafT muft

as

Timidity ; cowardice.
Co'wARDLV, ad/, [from cmvefrd."]
1. Fearful; timorous; pufillanimous.

Untimely ripp'd.

!

have a bunch in the middle, fomewhatwcdgc-like>
and "covered with a foft bolfter.
}Vi(tmant

Co'WARPLINESS. n. /. [{toju cotuatiii!).] Co'wSLip. n.f. [faralyjis

Macduff' was from his mother's womb

'

The way by a cctvl-J!aff\s fafer

thr

To deprefs with fear ; to opprefs

fyirits.

COY

COW

Tokens and letters, which fhe did refend. Sbakefp,
1 Icorn, (juoth (he, thou coxcomb lilly,
Quarter or council from a foe.
HucTtbras.
It is a vanity for every pretending coxcomb to
make himfclf one of the party ItiU with hia

The fplitring rocks co^o'r'd in the (Vnking fanda,
And would not dalh me svith their ragged fides.

There \a3s a loldier that vaunted, before Julius
Carfar, of the hurts he bad received in hii facii.
Czlar, knowing him to be but a cKosrd, rold hia).
You were beft take heed, next time you run away,
how you look bjck.
Bacoif.
Some are brave one day, and cvtoards iputher,
as great captains iiave often told me, from their

Staifffieere.

They tn'crflowed with fmart repartees, and were

As thus he fpake, each bird add beaft beheld.
Approaching two and two ; thefe c</iv'ring low
With bUndifhment, eaclibird floop'd on his wing.

only diflinguiihed from the intended wits by being
called coxcombs, though they dcferved not io fcan-

own experience and obfervation.

I draw frefli air, and nature's works admire.

Timpli.

he lofes his life.

Dryden,
dalous a name.
Some arc bewilder'd in the maze of fchools.
And fome made coxcombs, nature meant but fools.

Afi/toti.

Our dame (its cnv'ring o'er a kitchen fire;

A citvard docs not always efcape with difgrace, Co'wisH. adj.
but fometimesallb
Smti.

Dryd.

[from To cow, to awe.]

Pope,

4.

;

!

:

!

It is the ccnuijh terrour of his fpirit.

Pe;e't Odijty.

of ufe.

That dares not undertake he'll not feci wrong.
Which tie him to an anfwer. Shakiff. King Lear.

is fometimes ufed in the mariner of
an adjcclive.
Co'w KEEPER, n./. \_ctnu and keefer.\ One
Havmg mote man than wit about me, I drew
And rais'd the houfe with loud and cvmari cries.
whofe bufmel's is to keep cows.
Sbitkfjpeart.
The terms ctnukceper and hogherd are not to be

2. It

Bccaufe, as he was a very natural writer, and
they were without prejudice, wit'nout prepolTeflion,
without affeilaiioii, and without the influence of
coxcomica/, feiifclefs cabal, they were at liberty to
receive the imprefnons whicli tilings naturally made
Dennis,
on their minds.

;

;

Invading fears repel my reward ]oy.

ufed in our poetry ; but there are ao finer worjs
in the Greek language..

Prior.

Co'wARDicE. «./, [(torn cmuarJ.] Fear;

1.

,

;

„^ fliame,

i

The wnt'ioua knight is fi„.Ti tl.e faddle thrown,
But 'tis the fault of fortune, not hh owiu
Dry Jin': Fjbltt.
This great, this holy, this terrible Being, pi.7.

i

.

our tfkOAom; f-.-ej evefy tr«ichero<is
Inclination of our heart to def-rt bis frrvice
and
treafures up, itgalnft the day of hia utraih, the fefrnt to

all

;

«tet ifuiardin

which iictcr3 uj ftem afftitijig bis

Cornfield did

when he had fwcetly invented,

to fignify hi: name, faint Francis with his fricry
few/ in a cornfield.
Cair-dHn.
What differ more yon cry, than crown and co^c! f
I'll till

adj.

[coi,

French ; from

quietus,

Latin.]

Modeft ; decent.
JaCon is as ccy as is a maide

A monk's hood.
fcratch his elbow,

COY.

cucullui,
1.

You may imagine that Francis

Thus for to blot tlic l;rnonr of the dead ;
And with foul ccnuardice his carcafe fhame,
Whofe living hands immoiutiz'd Jus name.

None was dif^rac'd

;

Latin.]

Certes, Sir kr.ight, ye been too much to blame,

Fairy Sltteu.
Gallant and fcarlefi courage will turn Into a
na'.ive and hcrolck valour, and make tht-m h^te
the ««ar</;«of doirg vr"- . '^'?i on Education.

Broome.

COWL. », /. [cujle, Saxon

habitual timidity ; pufillanimity ; want

of courage.

Ar.d nvftrdiit alone 1«

A kind of red flower.

Timorous ; fearful
mean ; pufillani- Coxco''micai-. adj. [from coxcomi."] Fopa low word, unworthy
mous ; cowardly. Not in uie.
pifli ; conceited

Tremble ye not, oh frieads and ctmjrdi Ry,
Doom'd.by (he ilern Telcmacbus tp die

And ills firefecn the prel'ent blifi deilroy.

VEJhrange,

betters.

you, friend, a wife man and a fool.

Fife.

He loi/ked pitcoufly, but iiou)>bt he faid. Chjuetr,
2, Referved ; not accefiible ; not eaiily
condefcending to familiarity.
And Vain delight Ihe faw he light did pafs,

A foe of folly and rmmodeft toy ;
Siill folcn.n

hi, or ftill difdainful cty,

Spevfcr,

Like Hhcebus fung the no lefs am'rous boy

:

[Perhaps from coo/, conler, a veflel in
Walter,
lovely and as coy.
Like Daphne fhe,
which hot liquor is fet to cool.] A veflel
At this fcafon every Imile of the fun, like the
f.-nile of a coy tady, is asi dear as it is uncommon.
in which water is carried on a pole bePope,
tween two,
Graingir.
The Nile's cot fource.
CowL-sTAFP. »./ [fctu/andy?/?^] The To Cov. IT. n, [from the adjeftive.]
ftaff on which a veflel is fupported bebehave with referve ; to rejeft faI . To
tween two men.
2.

a:'

miliarity.

Mounting him upon a cnsl-Jlaff,

What, coying it again

Which (tolling him fomethicg hijh)

He apprchcoUed to be Pegatusi

No more
Snikliig-

;

I

but make me nappy to tny gufl-,

Th»t U, wirhuiit youf ftf iSgling. Pryd, K, Jirthtir.
Kctircl

C R A

c o z
-Rrtire ! I beg yon, leave me.

—Thus to CO]

——

Strange rw'rr«{e

it

Vet all hope pleafure in v.lnt yet remain;
And from the dregs of lite think to receive

!

What the firft fprightly lunning could not give.

willingly.

Shaiefprare*t Cvriohnus.

Coy. <v.a. [for dtay.'^ To allure. Not

in ufe.
I'll

liearts

3.

Difficulty; perplexity.

The poor (i(h h«ve enemies enough, befide fuch
unnatural ti(hermen as otters, the cormorant, and
the crabtr,, which fomc call the warer-rat.

Swi/f.

fValton's Angler t

Cr abs-eyes. «. /. Whitifh bodies, round-

a defrauder.

Bacon's Natural Hijiory,

ed on one fide, and deprefled on the
other, heavy, moderately hard, and
without fmell.
They are not the eyes
of any creature, nor do they belong to
the crab, but are produced by the convmon crawfiih ; the flones are bred in
two feparate bags, one on each fide of
the ilomach.
They are alkaline, abforbcnt, and in fome degree diuretick.

The fox catches rrai fifh with his tail, which
Olaus Magnus faith he himfelf was an eye-witnefs
Derham.
of.

Several {lerfona had, in vain, endeavoured to
{lore themfelves with crabs-eyes.
Bcyie^

Indeed,

Sir,

there

ire

.eaentrs

and

abroad,

tlierefore it behoves mcr. to be wary.

loved

Shahfp.Corktamt.

Co'v/.Y. adv. [from coyJ] With referve ;
with difincliaation to familiarity.

Sbekcfjfxare's Winter's Tate.

CRAB. «. / [cpabba. Sax. iraiie, Dut.

A cruftaceous

1.

through weeds and flags.
ffalton.
Wbcft the kind nymph would coymft feign.
And hides but to be found aga'n.
Drydcn.

fi.(h.

Thofc that ca!l their (hell are, the lobfter, the
crah, \\\z crawlilh, the hodniandad or doiman,

This iui, his hand he ccyly fnatch'd away
From forth Anttnous* hand.
Chapman^ sOdy[fry.
Co'vNESs. »,/. [fromcoy.'l Refervej unwillingaefs to become familiar.
When the fun hath warmed the earth and water,
three or four male carps will follow a female ;
and <he putting on a Teeming cynift, they force her

and th^ tortfife.

The old (hells are never found ;
crumble away by

fo as it is like they fcale off and
degree:..

Hill.

A

CRACK. ». / [kraeck. Dutch.]

wi'.d apple ; the tree that bears a
wild apple.

2.

A

fudden difruption, by which the
parts are feparated but a little way from

1.

Noble (Vock
Was graft with rrrfi-tree flip, whofe fruit thou art.

Co'ystrel. n.f. A fpecies of degenerate
hawk.

each other.

Sbakejfeme.

One they might truft, their common wrongs to

Fetch me a doeen rrai-trce (taves, and itning
ones i thefe are but fwitches. Sbak. Henry Vlll.
When roalted crabs hifs in the bowl.

wreak
The mufquet and the coyflrtl were too weak,
Too fierce the falcon. Dryiln'i Hind and Pjnibcr.
cant or familiar word, conCoz. n. f.
:

erah

Be merry, ax ; fince fudden forrow
Serves to fay thus, fame good thing comes

nurfc arid parent.

morrow.

To CO'ZEN.

-v.

a.

to-

3.

Shatefpturi.

4..

Let the queen pay never fo fully, let the muftermafter view them never fo diligently, let the deputy or general look to them never fo exaflly, yi^t
they Cin ccxin them all.
Sptvf-r.
Coring loved no man fo well but that he would
ccxcn him, and expofe him to publick m'rth for
having been «r<«,/.
Ctarei.dov,
He thjt fjffcrt a government to be abufcd by
oreldTnefs or negkdt, does the fame thing with
iu^i that maliciouHy and corruptly fcts himl'cif to
«*'» it.
L'FJIrangc.
You are not obliged to a literal belief of what
the poet fays ; but you arc pleafcd with the image,
without be ng cuiuiud by the fifHon.
Diyden.
What if 1 picafe to lengthen out his date
day, and take a pride to rtzfa/ate.
Dryden'i jiureitgxehe.
Children maybe ccKcr.rd'mto a knowledge of the
letters, and be taught to read, without perceiving
it to be any thing but a fport.
Lstkt on Education.

A

to the

dock

thofe cracks, as they

Nnuton's Opticks,

ing.
It I fay footh, I muft report they were

Tlien p.irts the Twins and C/ai, the Dog divides,
And Argo's keel, that broke the frothy tides.

As carAnons overcharg'd with double cracks,
Sbakcfpeare's Macbeth^

Crcccb.

Now day appears, and with the d.ny the king,

Crab. adj. It is ufed by way of contempt
fruit ; as,

Whofe early care had robb'd him of his reft :

a

Far oft' the cracks of falling houfes ring.

And (bricks of fubjefls pierce his tender bread.

crab cherry, a crab plumb.

Dryden.

Better gleanings their worn foil can boaft

Than the crab vintage of tlie neighb'ring ciall.

Any fudden and quick found.
A fourth ? — ftart eye

4.

Dryden.

Cra'bbed. adj. [from crab.]
1

!

What will the line ftrctch out to th' crack of d*om ?

,

Shake/peare.

Peevifli ; moroie ; cynical ; four.
A man of years, yet frelh, as more appear.
Of fwarth complexion, and o{ crabbed hue,
That him full of melancholy d.d £icw.
Sfenfcr.

Vulcan was employed in hammering out thunderbolts, that every now and then (lew up from the
anvil with dreadful cracks and fla(hes.

Change of the voice in puberty.

5.

Ten times more gentle, than her father's crabbed;
And he's compcfed of hatlhncls. Sbak,Tc»ifeJi,
2. Harlh ; unpleafmg.
Tliat was when
Three crabbed months had four'd chemfeivcs

And let us, Paladour, though now our voices
Have got the

a good lite is a main argument.
Bi.ii ytinf, Dijc.
There's no fuch thing at that we beauty call.

Diflicult ; perplexing.
BcBde, he w<u a (hrewd philofophcr,
And haJ read ev'ry text and glofs over
Whatc'cr the crabbidrjl author hath.

He undcrllool b' implicit faith.

1

cannot

Crazincfs of intelle£l.
A man crazed.

7.

8.

I hive invented projeAs for railing mMlions,
without barthening the fubjeft ; but cannot get
the parliament to lillen to me, who look upon me
AddijMt
as a crack and a projeftor.

9.
10.

A whore, in low language.
A boaft.

Lcafmgs, backbitings, and vain-glorious (rjcks.
All tliofe agaiiift that fort did bend their batteries.

Hudibrai.

Dryden.

For thiiugh fomc long ago
Lik'd certain colours mingled fo and fo,
Tiiat doth not tic me now from chufing new.

vrithoul the lead fufpicion of their coxinagt.
GhiivUlc'', Si'fjit.

Your crabbed rogues that read Lucretius
Are againft gods, you kuow.

Spenfer.

Cra'bbedness. It./. [ixQfa (raibed.'\
Sournefs of tafte.

A boaller. This is only in low phrafe.

Te Crack,

"^

I ,

1 1

Prior.

Cra'bbedly. adv., [from crabbed. Peeviflily ; morofely ; with perplexity.

him to th'
Sbake/pearc

Lucretius h!td chol'en a fubje^ naturally rru^'^i^.

It is mecr roxrnage all

(ing

Believe this cmck to be in my dread midrcfs,
So fovcrcignly being honourable. Sbak.fyint.TaU*

'

3.

cratk,

Breach of chaftity.

6.

1

tntgf ; and t!;erefore the reputation ofhoneftymiift
fittt be gotten, which cannot be but by living well

maniii(h

ground.

to

death,
Ere I could make thee open thy white han(<,
And clepe thyfclf my love.
iihak. Winter's Tale.
How charming is divine philofophy
Not har(h and crabbed, as dull (iools fuppofe.
But mulical as is Apollo's lute.
And a perpetual feaft of neftar'd fweets,
Where no crude furfeit reigns.
Mi/ltn.

Shahfptarc.

Imaginary appearances offer themfelvcs to our
impatient minds, which entertain thefe countcr-

^^iddi/cn,

,

O, (he is

As nimble jugglers that deceive the eye,

Suckling.

would appear of a

The found of any body buriling or fil-

3.

P/jillifs:

for any four or degenerate

d;l;Ued,

pretty good, but yet obfcure and dark, (ky-coloor.

The fign in the zodiack.

5.

ffiJemtLi.

At length it would crack in many places ; and

launching of Ihips, or heaving them in-

deceit ; artifice ; fallacy; trick; cheat;
the pradicc of cheating.
They fay this town is full of ctxtnage.

Wildom without honefty is meer craft aiid ccx-

part.

^aykr.

A peevifh morofe perfon".
A wooden engine with three claws for

Co'zENACE. n.f. [ham coxen.'] Fraud;

Difguifed chratcts.

..
•

[To co/e is in the old

Scotch dialeft, as Junius obferves, to
chop or change ; whence cozen, to cheat
bccaufe in iuch< traffick there is commonly fraud.] To cheat ; to trick ; to
defraud.

the fame p.'irt
where the blow was indited, or in the contrary
filTure or cr/ick of the (kuU, cither in

(lock, (hall have a fruit mote nibble than its

tra^ed from coufin.

The chink, filFure, or vacuity made by
difruption ; a narrow breach.
Contufions, when great, do ufiially produce a

2.

Then nightly fings the (l-iring owl.
Sbaktffeare.
Tell why a graft, taking nouri(hmcnt from a

A

.fcitSi

Sournefs of countenance; afperitj' of
manners.

Co'zENER. «./ ffrom cexen.l Acheater;

mouatebank their tores,
from them, and come honiG be-

Of all the trades in Rome.

•

2.

Crabber, n. f.

Dryjn'i jlaaai^zih.
But all thefe are trifles, if we confider the fraud
and cmunage of trading men and (bopkeepcrs.

If he csy'J

To hear Comioius fpeak, I'll keep at home.

Cny their

C R A

none would live paA yttrs

again.

With one who knows you too
^viot^i y. Shore*
2. To make difficulty ; not to condefcend

y*(7

.'

I.

-v.

a.

[iraecien, Dutch.]

To break into chinks;

to divide the

parts a little from each other.
Look to your pipes, and cover them with frelh
and warm litter out of the iiablr, a good thickMortimer,
nefs, iett the ttoft ir«f* them.
«.

To

^c% X
2.

To break

C Ti A
Then furious he begins his march,
Drrvet rattling o'er a brazen arch.

to fplit.

;

O, madam, my heart is track'J, it's crack' J.
Shakcj^care,

;

Her knc'.l alone, by cracking of her ftrings. Dontie.
Honour is like that glally bubble.
That finds philofophert fuch trouble

To do any thing with

quickneis

Her croivn.and jL-wels crackled in the fire.

'

fmartnefs.
Six Balaam now, he lives like other folks;
T"

Pope.

L

Cra'oknbl. n.f. [from crack.]

Tq break or deftroy any thing.

4.

Sb^kijptare,
LovecooU, fiiendfliip falls off, brothers divide:
.10 dtici, mutinies; in countrUs, difcord
in pa;
•

laces, treafon ;

Shaktjfc^rt't King Lear.
to weaken the intelleft.
I was ever of opinion, that the philofopher's
Aone, and an holy uar, were but the rendezvous

To craze

;

crackl.

Rofccmmon.

To Crack, v. n.

To burrt

t.

;

A hard

to open in chinks.

By miiforiune \tcrackrd\n the cooling, whereby
we were reduced to make ufe of one part, which
Was ftmight and intire.

S"ify-

A moveable bed, on which children or

Shakej'pcare's Coriolanus.

Cra'ftily. adv. [from crafty.]
ningly ; artfully ;

The i.^dit not only ofbankj,butof exchequers,
much goes out.

cracki when little comes in, and

No jutting frieze,
Euttrice, nor coigat of vantage, but this bird

the

Hath made his pendant bed and ptocreant credit.

voi'r the

The cradle and the tomb, alas, fo nigh
To live is fcarce diftinguifli'd from to die.

To nttPr a loud and fudden found.

3.

To boaft

4.

To look like her, ate chimney.fwcepcrs black.
And fince her time are colliers counted bright,
And Ethiops cf their fwret complexion crack :

Crack-brained, adj. [crack and iraJn-

"^ Crazy; without right reafoa.
We

Sbaktfviare.
What a refembtance this advice carries "to the
oration of Demetrius to his tellow crafjmcn!

coufin,

have fent you an anfwer to the ill-grounded
fophifms of th fe crack-trained fellows.

her i being ever, from their cradles, bred together.

Decay of Piety.

j4i butbnol and Poft.

Sbakefpeare't ylsyou like it.
fcarcely depart from a form of

Cra'ftsmaster. n.f. [craft and majier.]
A man flcilled in his trade.

wretch fated to the gallows ; a crack
rope ftn-cifer.
:

Come hither, <rack-bttnp
J hope 1 may chufe. Sir.
^Coinc hither, yna rogue:
What, have you forgot me ?
.

^

Shai'fpeari'i Taming tftht Shrew.

Crack-rope. n.f. [craci mA ropt.]

A

fellow that deferves hanging.

Cra'cker. n.f. [hom crack.]

A noify boafting fellow.

With this ab indancc of fuferfluous bre.ith (

^buke'peare'lKiigJrhn.

A quanuty of gunpowder confined fo as
to burft with great noife.

The bladder, at its breaking, gave a great re.
port, almoft like a cracker.
Boyle.
And when, for furious hafte to ran.
They durft not (lay to fire t gun.
Have done 't with bonfires, and at home

Ma.V fqu:i;4 and crackers overcome.

Vol, I.

3.

[With furgeons.]

,

iudihai.

He is

not his crafifmajla; he doth not do it
Shahjpeart.
There is art In pride; a man might as foon
learn a trade.
Thofc wlio wne Hot brought up to
it, feldom prove their
craffnujler. Ccllieron Pride.
"&}!'•

A cafe for a broken

bone, to keep off preliure.
4. [Withfliipwrights.] A frame of timber
raifed along the outfide of a lliip by the
bulge, ferving more fecurely and commodioufly to help to launch her. Harris.
To Cra'dle. t/;(7. [from the fubftantive.]
To lay in a cradle; to rock in a cradle.

He that hath

Vihu cracker is thii fame that dcafs our ears

loves

They diould
worfhip, in which they had been educated from
their cradle.
Clarcrdcn.

Crack-hemp. n.f. [crack and hemp.] A

2.

What reverence he did throw away on (laves.

Wooing poor crafljrr.en with the craft of fmilcs.

Speafer's Ireland.

The new duke's daughter, her

An

Which cunning craftjman'% hand hath ovijrlaid
With fjir vermilhon.
Ste'nfer.

or the firft part

and therefore wholly trained them up, even from
their cradles, in arms and military excrclfcs.

Shahfpearc.

Prior.

Cun-

n.f. [i:rom crafty.]

[craft &v\d ffian.]
artificer ; a manufacturer; a mechanick.
That her became, as polifii'd ivory.

of life.
He knew them to be inclined altogether to war,

Dark needs no candles now, for dark is light.

1.

It is ufed for infancy,

XnsUes.

ning ; flratagem.
He tjketh the wife in their ov.n craftinefs. Joh.

Pcft.
2.

cjui'e,'

hand che

May he not craftily infer

Make languor fmile, and fmooth the bed of death.

with of.

thiit

in

Cra'ftsman. «./.

With lenient arts extend a mother's breath.

Hhakcfpeare.

,

:

had, for

The rules of fricndlhip too fevere,
Which chain him to a hated tnift ;
Which make him vvrctclicd to be jurt ?

Prior.

To rock the cradle of repofing age;

and

Solyman to take

unfortunate Perfian war.

Me let tl)c tender oliice long engage.

bDard her, though Ihc chixle as loud
As thunder, when the clouds in autumn crack.
I vrili

Chrillinns ;

Cra'ftiness.

!

tjiaa

common report that he did, in all t'niigs, la-

craftily perfuaded

Locke.

'S<^-

Drydcn.

Cun-

with more art

honelly.
But that which mod impaired his credit,.was

His birth, perhaps, [<tme paltry village hides.
And fets his cradle out of fortune's way. Diydtn.
A child knows Iiis nurfe and his cradle, and by
degrees l;hc playthings of a little more advanced

Bylc.

Altjfe.

Small failing veflels.
Ti Craft, 'v. n. [from the noun.] To
play tricks ; to praftife artifice. Now
out of ufe.
You *ve made fair hands.
You and your crafts! You 'vc <ra/;irf fair.

Shake// eare.

Tp ftll to ruin.

artifice.
Th' offence is h"ly that (he hath committed;
-And this deceit lofes the name oi craft.
Of difobcdience, or unduteous t.tie. Shakejfeare.

4.

.

2.

£„, Je«j'.n.

Fraud ;, cunning ;

This gives us a full view of wonderful ait and
craft in raifing fuch a ilruilure of [ower and ;ni-

fick perfons are agitated with a fmooth
and equal motion, to make them fleep.
She had indeed, Sir, a fon fir her cradle, ere /he
had a huiband for her beJ.
Shakefp. King Lear.

Bac':ns Hcty War.

the work of the poet; poefy is his
of making, llie very (iftion itfelf of

the work.

3.

Drydcn' s Juvertl.

He thought none poets till their brains were

is

(kill or craft

CRA'DLE. n.f. [cnabel, Saxon.]
I .

Wotton's Architeaute.

Art ; ability ; dexterity.

A poem

.

Pay tributary cracknels, whith he fells

of cracked brains, that wore their feather in their
heads.

ways ill applied in a land.
2.

And with our oi^'crings help to T-a>i> liis vai's.

and the bond cracktd'x\l\t.\. fm and

father.

5.

I hear an objedlion, even from fome v,-ell-meaning men, that thefe delightful crafts may be divey

brittle cake.
Albee my love he feek with daily futi,
His clownilh gifts and curtefics I difJain,
His kids, his cracknels, and his early fruit. Spenjcr.

You'll crack a quart together \ Ha, will ysju not ?

Manual art; trade.

1.

Drydens Mne'id.
Marrow is a fpeciSck in that fcurvy which occafions a crackling of the bones ; in which cafe'
marrow performs its natural funftion of moiHening them.
jfrhsilbna on Aliments.

or

He takes his chirping pint, he crackt his jokes.

Welih.]

frequent noifes ; to decrepitate.
All thefe motions, which we faw,
Are but as ice which crackles at a thaw.
Dcnne.
I fear to try new l.jve,
As boys to venture on the unknown ice
That crackles underneath them.
Dryjen^
Caught herdilbcveli'd hair and rich attire;

Or a« a lute, which in moift weather rings

J.

And call mine Percy, his Plantagenet;
Then would I have his Harry, and he mine. Shak.

Sivife.

ToCra'ckle. t;. ». [from craci.] To
make flight cracks to make fmall and CRAFT. >i.f. [cjaspt. Sax. crefi, in old

_

Should fome wild fig-tree take her nativefient.
And heave below the gaudy monument.
Would craci the marble titles, and difpcrfc
The charjfters of all the lying verfc. DryJ. Juv.

.Whofe-leail pajt crack' d, the whole docs fly,
And wits are cracked to find out viiiy. Htdibrai.

In cradle-clcaths, our children, v;heie they lay.

Among the trembling crowd below.

Siakfffeare,

_

O

could it be prov'd
Tliat fome night-tripping fairy had excKing^d,

With fquibs and crackers arm'd, to throw

Thou wiltquaAl with a man for cracking nu:s,
having no other reafon but becaufe thou haft hazel
ey«.

C R A

been craciltd in

ni.ijelly, will

.

Cra'fty. adj.^[hova craft.]

mcke the Iri(h a crafty people; for fv.J„ as a're op!
prclicd,

not

leave the throne to play with bcggara.

•

His wings dififlifs'd, but ftill rctaiii'd

•

•

He (hall be cradled in tiiy ancient (hield, '((j^s.
mous through the univerlitics. Arluthnm ..n,! Pope.

a crudjc.

n, /.

[irom cradle

Bcd-clothes

belonging to

his rod.

Dryden.

i Ibody was

_.»*
ever fo cunning as to conceal their
being fo; and every body is (hy and
diflruftful of

Convey'd to carthj and craiUcd in a tomb, ^lyjen.

clothes.]

their

Da-viesonleland.
.
^
Before he
came ;„ fight, the crafty god

Or infant's fun'ral, from the chcitcd woinb

and

and live in (lavery, iirirver put to

"""';

planvillc's .^ptlhnius.
The tears ileal from oiir<\c8, when in the llrtet
With fome betrothed vir^iii's bcrfe wc nsect;

Cradle-clot HIS.

Cunning;

artful ; full of artifices j fraudulent ; fly.
Nay, you may think my love was cra/'ty love.
And call it cunning.
Shuicfpeare's Kmg Jftu.
This oppreffinn did, of force .ind nc
„ity

crafty men.

2,„^,,

CRAG, n.f
I.

Crag is, in Britifli, a rough fteeprock;
is ufed in the fame ieak in
the

and

northern counties at this day.
3

K

Gibfoa.
i,

Th«

To eat beyond fatiety.

To Cram. f. a.

The rugged protuberances of rocks.

il.

C R A

C R A

C R A
And as moxint Etna vomits fulphur ouC|
With clifo o<' burning tragi, and fire and (Vnolc;.

Cr a'nace. »./

Scolds with her maid, or with her chaplain iramu

Fairfax.

wares from the

Tcfi.

[a cant word, probably
play at which
without etymology.]
one gives a word, to which another finds

A

A lion fpicd a goat upon 'the crag of a h'gh
rPck.

Thcj- looken bigge, as bulls that been bate,

And bcaren the crag fo ftiff and fo ftate.

Sftnfir.

4. The fmall end of a neck of mutton

:

a

low word.

C R a'g c E D. adj. [from crag.^ Full of inequalities and prominences.
On a huge hill,
Craggcd and H»ff, truth (lands.

And ev'ry cramho he could get.

Ifa tab*

That fmall infantry warr'd on by cranes. Miltcti,
2. An inftrument made with ropes, pullies,
and hooks, by which great weights are

FreiKh.]
A fpafm or contradlion of the limbs,
generally removed by warmth and rubbing.

1.

Sbakfjptare' I Tcmptfl.

In a retreat he outruns any Uojuey ; marry, in
coming on, he has the cramp.
Siaktfpcarc.
The cramp cometh of contraAion of fmcws ;
which is manifed, in that it cometh either by cold
or drynefs.

Bacon's NaturjIHifliry,
Hares, faid to live on hemlock, do not make
good the tradition ; and he that obferves what
vertigoes, cramps, and convulfions follow thereon,
in thcfe animals, will be of our belief.
Bryivn's Vulgar Errcurs.

craggy.

Cra'cgy. adj. [from crag.'\ Rugged;
full of prominences ;

rough to walk on,

or climb.
That fame wicked wight
His dwelling has low in .in hollow cave.
Far undrrncath a craggy clift ypighr.
Dark, dolffu!, dreary, like a greedy grave. Sj>cnfer.
It wai imp^lfibU Co pals up the woody and
flaggy bills, without the iofs of thcfe commanders.
Raliigt's EJ/ays.

A redridlion;

2.

friend.

on the top of a very high aad craggy mountain.

L'EJlr.ir:^e.

A piece of iron bent

3.

.it

each end, by

Difficult;

knotty:

Being thus cratrmtd in the baflcet, a couple of
Ford's knaves were called. Shak. M. W. oflVind.

A wateri(h humour fwcil'd, and ooz'd again.

tliea

well in the planUtion, and not by furcharge be in
penur)-.

Bac^n.

To fill with food beyond fatiety.

2.

You'd mollify a judge, would cram a fquire;

Or clfe fame fmiles from court you may defire.
King.
I am fure children would be freer from difeafes,

crammed to much as they are by
fond mothers, and were kept wholly from flefli the
years.

Lackt.

As a man may b« eating all day, and, for want
of digeftion, ii never nouriflied ; fo thcfe endlefi
readers may cram themfelves in vain with intelIcflual food.

ffatts on the Mind.

But Annius, crafty feer,
Catoc cramn'd with capon from where Pollio dines.

crairps

and ties up his aciivity.

maxims.
Marius ufed

Mdifon m Italy.
al^

Tbcmfoni Spring.

Fate has crtmm'd us all into one leafe,
And that even now expiring. Dryden's Clamenu
In another printed p.ij)er it i» roundly expreni:d,
tiiat be will trim hit Inaft

down out throats.
Sv'ijt-

1 fend it through the rivers of your blood.

Even to the court, the heart, to th' feat o' tli' braia
And through the cranks and offices of man.

The (IrongclV nerves, and fmall inferiour veins.
From me receive that natural competency.
Whereby they live.
3.

To bind with crampirons.

Any

Shakejpeare' s CoriolanaU

formed by twifting or
changing, in any manner, the form or
conceit

meaning of a word.
Hafte thee, nymph, and bring with thee
Jelt and youthful jollity.

Quips and cranks, and wanton wiles.

Nods and becks, and wreathed fmiles.
Such as hang on Hebe's cheek.

And love to live in dimple fleck.

Crank,

adj.

Millcrt.

[itooi tnkranci,

Healthy; fprightly : fomctimes corrupted to cranky.
Not in ufe.
They looken b'rgge, as bulls that been bate.
And bearen the crag fo ftiff' and fo ftate
As cockl: on his dunghill crowing cranke. Spenfer,

2.

Among failors, a (hip is faid to be
crank, when, by the form of its bottom,
or by being loaded too much above, it
is liable to

be ovcrfet.

[from kranck,

Cra'mpfish. n./. [from cramp and /J/j.]
Dutch, fick.]
The torpedo, which benumbs the hands To Cra'nkle. -v.' It. [from
of tliofc that touch it.
Cra'mpiron. «./. [from fr«/w/ and ;>«».]
See Cramp, isaie }.

Dutch.

Skinner.
1.

Shiift,

^.

to tread the treddle-wheel about.

^oxon,

endeavours for depre(ring the

Ko more
Th" expanfive atmofphere is cramp'd with cold,
Bat full of life, and vivifying foul,

it

Any bending or winding palTage',

2.

railing the people, particularly for
cramping the former in their power of judicature.

Yuu ctam thcfe words into mine ears, againft
The ftnroach of my fcnfe.
Sbakrjpiarc's Tcmptft.
Huftcr, quoth Hudibras, this fwird
Sh;iU down thy falfe throat cram that wct<

ii flipt,

nobles, and

To thruft sa by force.

[This word is perhaps a

of the inftrument called a crane.']
A crank is the end of an iron axis
turned fquare down, and again turned
fquare to the firft turning down ; fo that
on the laft turning down a leather thong

1.

Burnet's Ttcry.

The antiquaries are for cramping their fubjcds
into as narrow a fpace as they can, and for reducing
the whole extent of a fcience into a few general

when the era-,

may bear fome refemblance, and is part

Dr. Hammjnd loves to contrail and cramp the
frnfe of prophecies.

The flcuU.

[Latin.]

contraftion of crane-neck, to which

Soatb's Samons.

Pupc.

3.

CRANK, n.f.

to confine ; to obftruft ;

It is impolTible to conceive the number of inconveniencies that will enfue, if b»rrowing be
cramped.
^acui.
There are few but find that fome companies benumb and cr.tmp them, fo that in them they can
neither fpeak nor do any thing that is handfome.
Glam-iiU't Scepjis.
He who ferves has ftill reftraints of dread upon
his fpirits, which, even in the midft of aflion,

f.

nium is a little naked, you ought not prefently to
crowd in dolTils; for if that contufed (jeih be well
digeftcd, the bone will incarn with the wound
without much diHiculty.
WifemaiCs Surgery,

to hinder.

if they were not
firft three

;

71.

In wounds made by contulian,

Dryden's I'ir^iu

To reftrain

2.

Shake/peart i lioelftb Night.

Cram not in people by fending too faft company
after company ; but fo as the number may live

CRA'NIVM.

a low

To Cramp, -v. a. [from the noun.]
1
To pain with cramps or twitches.
When the ^ojUraSed limbs were cramp'd, ev'n

fool, whofe (kull Jove cram with brains.

A pair of pincers terminadng in a
point, ufed by furgeons.

term.

conveniently be held.
As much love in rhyme.
As would be crantrn'd up in a fhc^.i of paper,
Writ on both Gdcs the leaf, margent and atl. Shak,

Thou haft fpoke as if thy eldcrt fon fliould be a

An herb.

1.

2.

tened a (harp graple, or cramp of iron, which may
be apt to take hold of any place where it lights.

Cramp, adj.

a crooked pipe for drawing

Cranes-eill. n.f. [from fr«ae and W/.]

To the uppermoft of thcfe there (hould be faf.
JTMrts.

;

liquors oiit of a cafk.

which two bodies are held together.

AddxJ^n cti Italy.

To CRAM. t;. a. [cfiamman, Saxon.]
1. To ftafF;
to fill with more than can

A fiphon

3

confinement; obftruc-

tion ; (hackle.
A nairow fottune is a cramp to a great mind,
and lays a man under incapacities of ferving his

Mountaineers that from Severws came,

And fiom the craggy clitt's of Tetrica.
DryJen.
The town and republick of St. Marino ftands

raifed.
In cafe the mould about it be fo ponderous 1;
not to be removed by any ordinary force, you may
then raife it with a crane.
Mortimer.
Then commerce brought into the publick walk
The bufy merchant, the big warehoufe built,
Rais'd the Acting crane,
Thomftrn's Autumr.

For this, be fure, to-night thou (halt havecr<i»i/>i,
Side-ditches tliat (hall pen thy breath up.

maketh many parti of it in a manner inaccelTiblc.
Brcmviodftate of being

Like a crane, or a hvailow, fo did I chatter.

CRAMP. »./ [iramfe, Dutch; crampe,

nefs of cr.igs or prominent rocks.
The craggcdntfi or llecpnefs of that mountain,

Cra'cginess. »./. \JTom craggy. 1 The

A bird with a long beak.

1.

Sivift.

Crajhaiv.

C R a'c c e d n e ss. n./. [from craggtd.'\ Ful-

money paid and taken for the fame.

CRANE. »./ [cpan. Sax. iraen, Dutch.J

So Mxvjus, when he drain'd hit flcuU
To celebrate fome fuburb trull.
His limilies in order let.

The neck.

3.

any creek of

Coxvell.

3 rhyme ; a rhyme.

VEfirargt.

veffels, at

the fea or wharf, unto the land, and to
make profit of it. It fignifies alfo the

Who hath difposM, but thoUi the winding way, Cra'mbo, n. f.

Where fprings down from the fteepy crags do heat.

[cranaglum, low Latin.]

A liberty to ufe a crane for drawing up

The godly dame, who flefhty failings damns.

crank,

as it

fomething bent.] To run in
and out ; to run in flexures and wind>

fignifies

ings.
Se«

C R A

C R A

Crash. ». /. [from the verb. J A loud
fudden mixed found, as of many things

whom to crave help, fled as men and wom»n i'C-

C 11 A
See Iiow this river comes me tranllhg In,
And cuts me from the beft ot aN my land

A huge half moon, a monftrous cantlc out.
Sbaltffeare'i Henry IV.

Senfclefs Ilium,

^oCra'nkle. v. a. To break into un-

Stoops to hii baTc ; and, with a hideous crajh.
Takes prifoner Pyrrhus' ear.
Shakcff. Hamlet.
Moralizing fat I by the li,iz;ird-table: I looked
upon the uncertainty of richer, the decay of beauty, and the craJh of world!, with as much contempt as ever Plato did.
Pcfe.

Old Vaga's ftream,
Forc'd by the fudden /hock, her wonted track
Forroolc, and drew her humid train aflope,
Phillfs.
Crank/ing her banks.

verb.]

In-

fified by

Cra'nnied. adj. [from cranny.']

Full of

Levity pu(hes us on from one vain defire to another, in a regular viciflicude and fucce/Tion of

A

A wall it is, as I would have you think,
That had ia it a eragnuJ hole ot chink.
Sbakcjfdri;
but
;

CRASS,

famcwbat rougher chopt and crsrmtdi vulgarly
conceived the marks of Adam's teeth.
Brtytvni VuJgar Ernun,

coarfe ;
fubtle ;

A chink

;

a cleft ; a fifTure.

The eye of the underftanding is like the eye of
the fcnfc; for as you may fee great objcfts thro'
fmall crannUi or holes, fo you may fee great axioms
of nature through fmall and contemptible inBaccit'i Natural lliflur^.

llances.

And therefore beat and laid about.

To find a cranny to creep out.

lluJilrJS,

In a firm building, the cavities ought not to be
with rubbifli, but with brick or ftone, fitted
DryJcn.
to the crartnui,
Within the forking of water and fprings, with
ftreams and currents in the veins and crannia.

fall

into

ajid cxtraft it.

Burnetii Theory,
to the garrets,

I

Stvift.

Cra'puloi/s. adj. [crafuk/m, Latin.]
Drunken ; intemperate ; fick with intemperance.

To CRASH. v.

n.

[a

DU/.
word probably

forAed from the thing. ]

Delay.

The palifaded frame in which hay

of fin, thou wcrt held in the chains of death; I
uas inclofed in the virgin's womb, I was laid in
the cratcb, 1 was wrapped in fwathling-cloatlis.

Crava't. n.f, [of uncertain etymology.]

A neckcloth ; any thing worn about the
neck.

b«tt«r to read cruck.

JJ^jJeman't Surgery.

To CRAVE, -v. a.
I.

[cra'p-in, Saxon.]

To a(k with earneftnefs

to a/k with
;
fubmiflion ; to beg ; to entreat.

What one petition is there found in the whole
Litany, whcn-of v;e (hill ever be able at any time
to fay, that no man livlnj; ncedeth the grace or
benciit therein trarr.l at Cod'-; hands ?

Hooter.

As for my nobler l>it;iid':, I crai>£ their pardons j
;

See Crack.

!*

A comblefs cock, fo Kate will be my hen.

—No cock of mine} you crow too like a craven.
Shakfpeare.
2.

A coward

a recreant ; a weak-hearted

;

fpiritlefs fellow.
Is it fit this Ibld.er keep his oath ?

He is a craven and a villain elfe. Skjk. //. Vi
Upon his coward bread

A bloody crofs, and on his cravrn cred
A bunch of hairs difcolour'd diverlly.

Sf infer.

Whether it be
Beftial oblivion, or fome craven fcruple.

Of thinking too prccifely on th' event

A thought which, quarter'd, hath but one pait
wifdom.

And ever three parts coward. Shakcff care's HamieU
Yet if the Innocent lome mercy tind.

From cowardice, not rinh, did that proceed ;

To Cra'ven. i>. a. [from the noun.]
IluJibras,

The redriftives were applied, one over anotlicr,
to her throat : then we put her on a crjv.it.

Zrft. 1. 10.

When convulfioni cleave the lab'ring earth,

To crajh, fays Hanmer, is to be merry
a cr^Jh being a word ftill ufed in fome
counties for a merry bout.
It is furely

What, is your creft a coxcomb

His noble foes durll not his crav:n kind
Exafpcratc by fuch a bloody deed.
Fairfax.

Lefs delinquents have been fcourg'd.

About their necks, and took a' turn.

•vjine.

A cock conquered and dlfpirited.

Halmuill on Providcr.cc.

There (hall be a great crsjhirg from the hills,

you be not of the houfe of Montague, I pray you
come and cra^ a cup of .wine.
Sbair/ftarc.
Mr. IVurburton has it, crujh a cup of

is

put for cattle.
When, being expelled out of ParaJife by reafon

And hemp on wooJcn anvils forg'd ;
Which others for cravan have worn

;

1.

Cratch, n.f. \creche, Fr. crates, Lat.] Cra'ven. adj. Cowardly; bafe.

To make a

7b Crash, v. a. To break or bruife.
My mafler is the great rich Capulet and if

perhcips it comes originally from
the noife made by a conquered cock.

Di£l.

loud complicated noife, as of many
things falling or breaking at once.

Before the difmal yawn appear?, the ground
Tremblet and heaves, tlie nodding houfes cra^.
Smith.

Suckling.

Cra'ven. n.f.
life :

Cr-*'pulence. n. f.

\crapula, a furfeit,
Lat.] Drunkennefs ; ficknefs by intemperance.
DiSl.

Once one may crave for love,
But more would prove
This heart too little, that too great.

they fpcnd not.
Bacon.
The Dead Sea, which vomiteth up bitumen, is

to-morrow.]

*Tis from high life high charaOcrs are drawn {
faint in crafi is twice a faint in lawn.
Pofe,

Sometimes with/cr before the thing
fought.

paper or parchment ; for, if they have a greater

often call'd in vain,

Againd that ad'aflin in craft,

5.

crajfiiudt, they will alter in their own body, though

Crastika'tiok. n.f. [from eras, Latin,

To thee

fuch a conftitution, are acids, taken in too great
quantities ; four eruftations, and a craving appetite, efpecially of terreftrial and abforbent fub(lances.
Ariuthnol on Alimtnts.

[derived by 5/(/««fr from
crave, as one that craves or begs his

Swift.

fluff,

Beftow

Your needful counfel to our bufineffes.
Which crave the imiant ufe. Shahej'f. King Lear,
The antecedent concomitants and efi'efts of

Latin.]
thicknefs.

loofely woven, of which the drefs
of the clergy is fometimes made.
And pr'jud Roxana, fir'd with jealous rage,
With fifty yards of craft (hall fwcep the ftage.

A

thin

South.

To call for importunately.

4.

{crafjitudo,

of that crajfiiuile, as living bodies, bound hand and
foot, cafl into it, have been born up, and not funk.
BacoT:'s Natural Hiflory.
The terreftrial matter carried by riven into the
fea, is fullained tlu:iein partly by the greater cr,f~
fitudt and gravity of the fea-water, and pai-tly by
its condant agitation.
Wood-ward.

jlrtulbmt't John Bull.

n./. [f^/;?, low Latin.]

b'lth hurrying

aSion.

}f^osJ^rarti's Niitural H;fory.

n. /.

Grofihefs; coarfenefs ;
They mull be but thin, as a leaf, or a piece of

He /kipped from room to room, ran up ftairs

and the fway of an iaipetut,us lult j

him to fatisfy the cravings of it by fome wickcH

ebullition,

with noife and emication ; as alfo a craft and
fumid exhahition, caufed from the combat of the
fulphur of iron with the acid and nitrous fpirits of
aquafortis,
Bra^vn^t Vulgar Errours.
Metals are intermixed with the common terredrial matter, fo as not to be difcovcrable by human induftry ; or, if difcoverable, fo dirl'ufed and
fcattered amongd tlie craj/er and more unprofitable
matter, that it would never be poflible to feparate

Cra'ssitude.

filled

and down ftalrs, from the kitchen
and be peeped into every cramy,

[crnftu, Latin.]
Grofs
not thin ; not comminuted ; not
not confifting of fmall parts.

L'EJIrange,

He is aflually under the power of a temptation,

adj.

Iron, in aquafortis, will

CRA'NNY. »./ [cren, Fr. crena, Lat.]

cravings and fatiety,

S'^mb.

fpirits,

A very fair fruit, and not unlike a citron

To fave a farthing in a ferry-boat Dryd. Peifiu.,
To long; to wiih unreafonably.
>

3.

fomething wherein none is like him.
Glar.vUU.
man may be naturally inclined to pride, lud,
and anger ; as thefe inclinations are founded in a
peculiar crajit and conditution of the blood and

chinks.

and will ftill be poor ?

Is ever craving,

Who cheats for halfpence, and who dofrs his coat

The fancies of men arc fo immediately dlverthe iuduidual crjjis, that every man owns

2. Difpofition to overfet.

A

The fuhjefts arin'd, the more their princes gave^
Th' advantage only took the more to craic.
De«hnm,
Him do(t thou mean, who, fuite of all his (lore-.

properties of humours.

Health ; vigour.

Crape,

Prior,

To aflc infatiably.

2.

n. /. [r.^Sia-ti.]
Temperature ;
conftitution arifing from the various

Cra'nkness. «./. [from frcwi.]

Locks,

Ench ardent nymph the riling current cra'va.
Each fliephcrd's pray'r retards the parting waves.

CRJ'SIS.

equalities ; angular prominences.
1.

propofed.

Sccm'ng to feel this blow, with flaming top

equal furfaces ; to break into angles.

Cra'nkles. »./ [from the

mayed.
KkoIUs.
1 would crave leave here, under the word aiAion,
to comprehend the forbearance too of any action

broken at the fame time.

But for the mut.iLlc rank-fcented many.
Let them regard roe as I do not flatter.
Stakffejre^i CcrioIariNS,

The poor people, not knowing where to hide
themftlvcj from U>e fury of their enemies, nor of

To

make recreant or cowardly.
'Gainft felf-flaughter

There IS a prohibition fo divine.
That cravens my weaJt hand. Shakcjf. Cymltcline,
Cra'ver. n./. [from cra've.] An infati-

able afker.

It is ufed in ClariJ/a.

To Craunch, 1/. a. [/chrantfai, Dutch;
whence the vulgar fay more properly to
fcraunch.l To crulh in the mouth. The
word is ufed by Sivi/t.

Craw. tr.j'. [;{roir, Danifh.] The crop or
firfl

ftomach of birds.

In birds there is no maillcation or comminution
of _lhe meat in the mouth j but, In fucSi as a.c
ijot carnivorous, it is Immediately fw.TlloweJ into
the crop er crgtii, or at lead int'J a kind oi anieftomach,
3 K 2

C R'A
Jlomach, which

I

C,

haTC obfcrved in many, efye-

Kaj c» the Creaiien.

ciilly pifclvorous birdi.

n. /.
[ fometimes written
properly crtvice ; in French,
tcrevij/e.'\ A (mall cruftaceous fi(h found
in broolcsj the fmall lobfter of fre(h
water.

Cra'yon. n.f.

Tbofe that caft their flirll are the lobfter, the
the hodmandod or dodman,
Baitn.
and tlie tortoife.
Let me to crack live c»-<«y^rtcommfnd. Pi>f(.
The common crt^vfifb, and the large fea crmvHill.

2.

Millcn.

!

DryAcn.

The ftreams, but juftcontain'd wHhin their

,

1

A drawing or defign done with a pencil
\ecrafer, French,"to
-v. a.
break to pieces.]
To break ; to crufti ; to weaken.

In this confidcration, the anfwcr of Calvin unto
Farrel, concerning the children of popifli parents,
Haiin
doth fccm craxid.
Relent, fwcet Hermia ; and, Lyfandcr, yield

To crack the brain

'Tis our firft intent

crepitude ; brokennefs ;

Cra'zikess.
1.

Vrytien'i JuniertiU

He was hardly able to craivl about the room,

far left to look a;ter a troublefomp bnfincfs.

jiriuthnot^s Join Ball.

2.

1 hen ihrinks to earth again.

P<ft.

be

very necelTary for the th:-caiibate
and every child who can cruvil, to

watch the fields at harveft-time.

1.

There are a fort of men, whofe vifages

Do cream and mantle like a (landing pond ;
And do a wilful ilirthcfs emertain.
With purpofe to be drcft in an opijaon
Sbakefpcar^'s Afercbant nj Venice.

7« Cream,

-v.

a.

[from the noun.]

To take off the cream.
2. To take the flower and
1

of any thing :

quinteflence
ufed fomewhere by

io

Crf A M-FACED. aJj

[cream and faceJ.}
Pale ; coward-looking.

Broken; decrepit.

natural for them to groan.

Shukeffeart't Henry VIII.

2.

K ^'Q. u; on that litt':r of abfurd opinions that
Smth.

How will the condemned fmner then cra-wl
forth, and appear in his fikfa, before that undefined

tribunal f

South.

BehbU a rev'rend fire, whom want of grace
Has made the father of a namelefs race,
or rudely

3.

Thou- f(¥<nn-/ic'</ lown.

VEfirange.

Broken-witted ; fliatteredintheintelleft.
The queen of night, whofe large command

Weak

;

feeble ;

Shaiefpearc's Macbelbf

Cre'amy. aJj. [from cream.]

Full of
having the nature of cream.
CRE'JNCE. n. J. [French.] Is, in falconry, a fine fmall line, faftencd to a
hawk's leafli when flie is firft lured.
CREASE, n.f. [from creta, Latin, cjjalk.
Skinner,] A mark made by doubling any

cream

fliattered.

thing.

Were it pofllble that the near approaches of eter-

Bolingbroke to obferve, that the clerks
ufed an ivory knifi:, with a blunt edge, to divide
paper, which cut it even, only requiring a ftrong
dcfired lord

mature age, a craxy conftitu-

tion, or a violent ficknefs, Ihould amaze fo many,

prcfs*d

By liij own (i>i\s, that '^ifs him by unblefs'd Pcfe.
Cr a'wi.er. w.T". [from traou/.] Acrecper;
any thing that creeps.
!

Cr a'y FiSH. »./. [See Crawfish.} The

had they truly confidered,

tyake.

hand j whereas a (harp penknife would go out of
the creaje, and disfigure the paper.
S-wift^

In thefe faft places, they kept their creaghti, or
herds of cattle, living by the milk of the cov,

To Cre'ase. -v. a. [from the noun.] To
mark any thing by doubling it, fo as'to

Creacht. n.f. [An Irirti word.]
wirhout hulbandry or tillage.

Davits on Ireland.

To Creacht. v. v.

river lobllcr.

1 h: cure of the muriatick and armoniack faitfaails,

;

Men of great parts are unfortunate in bufincfs,
becaufc they go out of the common road : I once

Phyfick can but mend out craxy ftate,
Patch an old building, not a new create. Dryden.
nity, whether by a

.

Where got'ft thou that goofe-look ?

Rules all the f:a and half the land,
And over moift and craxy brains,
In high fpiing-tides, at midnight reigns. Hudihat.

trazcl about the world, to the difgrace of reafon.

on,

Weaknefs of intelleft.

When people are craxy, and in difordtr, it is

4. To move about hated and defpifed.

as

To

Of wifdom, gravity, profound conceit.

State of being crazy ; imbecility ;
weaknefs.
Touching other pLiccs, (he may be faid to
hold them as one (hould do a wolf by the ears

Fitter for ficknefs and for craxy age.
Shaiejpeare't Henry VI.

Hath craviti into the favour of the king.

nefs recjuircs fiimy meats j

j^rbutbnot on j^iiments.

It is ufed for the bed part of any thing

as, the cream if a jtft.
7c Cream. 1;. «. [from the noun.]
gather cream.

Come, my lord.

Cranmer

jelUes, aud crayfijhut

milk.
2.

We will bcftow you in fome better place.

Sviift.

fiiov'd

into an oily liquor called cream j'2nd a thinner,
blue, and more ponderous liquor, called (kimmed

[hom crazy."]

Cra'zv. aiij. \ecrax.e, French.]

To advance flowly and flily.

ftreet,

n.f.

.

!

A while he craivh M\~in the earth,

Craivl thr>ugh the

'^'•'£.

Milk, (landing fome time, naturally fcparatcs

cr<ja!.rfnt_/}

nor will I fpcak now of tbi'eraxinefi of her title
Hcvicl's fecal ForeJI.
tJ many of them.

Man is a very worm by birth.

And is his oracle.

diminution of

of their
minds, pofiefled with didike and difcontentmcnt
at tViings prefcnt, is to imagine that any thing
Hooker.
would help them.
likewitif of the people in the

//-:>.>>:.

3.

De-

The nature, as of men that have fick bodies, fo

KmIIci.
For the fleets of Solomon and th» kings of
Egypt, it is very apparent they went with great
Icifure, and crato/ej clok by theihore-nde.

gownman,

His ihadowy flail hath threfli'd the com. Milton.
Let your various creams incirled be
With fweiling fruit, juft ravilh'd fiom the tree.

Tillotfon.

intelleft.

fort, got into it.

It will

How the drudging goblin fwet,
To earn his crcam-boviX duly fet
When in one night, ere glimpfe of mom.

him, friend.

does.

They like tall fellows crept out of the holes
and fecrctly crmolmgMp the battered walls of the

Vile reptile, weak and vain

to impair the in-

Cra'zedness. n.f. [horn crnzed.'\

ShaJtifpeare^i K;fig Lrar.

•

Skatefjteare's Henry IV.
Cream is matured and made to rife fpeedily, by
putting in cold water j which, as it fcemeth,
getteth down the whey.
Bacon's Nufaral liy}:ry.

and every finner does wilder
and more extravagant things than any man can
do that is traced and out of his wirs ; only with
thisYad difference, that he knows bitter what he

roufly.

;

not your inky browrs, your black filk hair.

a cliofen diftraflion ;

To Ihake all cares and bufmefs from our age.

Thy dwindled legs feem craviling to a gr.-ive.

is

Stakeffeare.
I am as vigilant as a cat to fteai cream.

Wickednefs is a kind of voluntary frcnay, and

To move weakly and flowly, or timo-

While we unburthen^d cratul tow 'id death.

It

No father his fon dearer, true, to tell thee.
That grief hath crax'd my wits. Shak. K. Lear.

iraw/j t' y felljw-creature, abjffl man. Prhr.

The unfluous or oily part of milk,
which, when it is cold, floats on the

Your bugle eye-balls, nor yourcheelf of cream.
That can entame my fpirits to your worfliip.

•

I lov'd

Gretv^s Caftjioiogia.

A look fo pale no qnartane ever gave

;

telleft.

It is fometimes ufed of animals.
The creaking locufts with my voice confpire,
They fried with heat, and I with fierce defire.
Dryden,

top, and is changed by the agitation
of the chura into butter ; the fljwer of
milk.

between two grinding ftones, bruifeth it to a fine
Carrw't Survey.
fand.

The vile worm, that yefterday brgan

To

1.

Till length of years.

3.

''

CREAM, n.f. [cremor, Latin.]

And fedentary numbnrfs, craxc my limbs. Milton.
Then through the fiery pillar, and the cloud,
God looking forth, will trouble all his hoft.
Milton.
And craxe their chariot wheels.
2. To powder.
The tin ore pafleth to the craxing mill, which,

feeling, at it cravih from one thing to anotiier.

2.

2.

Thy irazitl title to my certain right. Sbatifpccrc.

bounils.

By How degrees into their channels craivl
Dryiin.
And earth incrcafcs as the waters fall.
A worm finds what it fearchej after, only by

fay,

To CRAZE,

;

That er^fwling infcO, who from mud began ;
Warm'd by my beams, and kindle^ inta man

to

To make a harih protraftel noife.

Let not the creaking of flioes, nor the ruftling
of filks, betray thy poor heart to women.
Sbakeffcart's King Lear.
No door there was th' unguarJed houfe to keep.
On creating hinges wrn'd, to brrak his flcep.
brjJtn.

or crayon.

To CRAWL. <v. n. \krielen, Dutch.]
To creep ; to move with a flow motion
1
to move without rifing from the ground,
as a worm.
r faw them under a green mantling vine.
That cratu/t along the fide ot' yon fmall hill.

1.

d.>y pifs
is,'

R E

To Creak, v. n. {corrupted from crack."]

over you without drawing a
without working, without
giving fome fttokes of the pencil or the crayon.
Drjiir'i D:ifrtfnoy.

Let no

line; that

•

fjh, both produce the ilones called crabs eyes.

[frajow, French.]
;
a roll of pafte to

draw lines with.'

'

(rayfijb,

crab, the craviffi),

:C

A icind of pencil

1

Cra'wfish.

RE

It was

made penal to the Englifh

to permit the

tortoifes,

Irilh to crcagbt or grnze upon their lands, or prefcnt

Htyrr.

them to ecclcliallical beseficcs. Vaviet en JnLird.

leave the imprelTian.

To CREA'TE. -v. a. [creo, Latin.]
To form out of nothing ; to caufe to
I
.

exiA.

Tn

C R E
In the beginning God trtattd the heaven and
[Getitfu.

the earth.

We having but imperfeft Ideas of the operations
operations of God, run into great difficulties about
free crialid agents, which reafoo cannot well ex-

Lade.

tricate itfelf out of.

To produce

;

to caufe j to be the occa-

Cre'ature. n,/,

iion of.

Now is the time of help

:

your eye in Scotland

Were thefe perfons idolaters for the worship they
did give to his creatures ?

2.

Ever Ihall be fortunate.

Shaieffeare^

Arife, my knights o' th' battle : 1 create you
Companions to our perfon, and will 6t you

A general term for man.

Hence ; home, you idle creatures, get you home \
Is this a holiday .'

Shakefpeare' s Julius Cafar.
He would Into the (leivs,

;

to put

any

Shcriejpeare's Hatnlee.

,

n. /.
[from credible.']
Claim to credit; pollibility of obtaining

belief;

Pope,

A word of petty tendejaefs.

:

Der.bam.

Such wjis the fiir.t, who flione with ev'ry grate,
!

credibility

the.r>ther.

Dry Jen'' t Fab/et.
Nor could the tender new creation bear
Th" excedive heaw or coldnefj of the year.

a juft claim to belief.

The ground of credit is the cre'jibility of things
credited ; and things are made credible, either by
the known condition and quality of the uttercr, or

A perfoa who owes his rife or his fortune to another.

}Uoker.

None can dcmonftrate to me, that there is fuch

Clarendon.

In dayi of yore, no matter where or when.
Before the liiw creaiicn fwarm'd with men. rarncl.

an iiland as Jamaica j yet, upon the teiHmony of
am free from doubt. Tillotfon.

The duke's creature he dcfired to be cllecmed.

~

Any thing produced, or caufed.

credible perfons, 1

Clarendon,

Great princes thus, when favourites they raifc,
'Tojuftify their grace, their rre<7/ur« praiff,- Dryd.

Art thou not, Tutji vitioq, fenlible

To feeling as n fli;!.t ? Or art thou but

CRE'orBLENESs.

every body knows to be the creature of a certain
great man.
Swift.

Macbeth,

Crea'tive. adj, [from creaie.1
1
Having the power to create.

The feveral parts of relatives, or creaturcly in-

But come, ye generous minds, in wbofe wide

finites, may have finite proportions to one another.

thought,

With warmest beam.
Ttomfon'i Spring.
Exerting the aft of creation.

To trace the outgoings of the ancient of days
in the firft inftance, and of his creative power, is
a refearch too great for mortal enquiry.
S-^utb.

C R e'b R T u D E
I

.

It.

/.

[from

creier,

quent, Latin.] Frequentnefs.

The

dence,
I.

Norman Fr.]

Belief J credit.

In a

lofs of fo few of the Engli/h
Icarce credible ; being, as hath been rather
confidently than credibly reported, but of one man, I
thouj^h n<it a few hurt.
c
Bacu*^ .

Di£l.
Z>/V?.

Boyle.

This, with the

as

is

.

Cre'brous. ac{/. [from creier, La,t,] Fre- CRE'DIT. n.f.
quent.

credible,]

phyfick.

fre-

CRE'DENCE. »./. [from credo, Lat. cre-

[from

Cre'diblv. ad'v. [from credible.]
manner that claims belief.

Cheyne'i Philofopbical Principles,

Of all hi! wirks, creative beauty burns

/.

The crediblenfs of a good part of thcfe nar.
raclvcs has been confirmed to me by a praitifer of

Cre'aturely.

adj, [from creature.]
Having the qualities of a creature.

)!.

Credibility; worthinefs of belief; juil
claim. to belief.

The defign was diicoyered by a perfon whom

A dagger of the mhij, a falfc crcaiun.
Proceeding from the heat-oppreffed brain ?

Latin.]

by the manifeft likelihood of truth in themfelves.

He fent to colonel Maflcy to fend him men,
which he, being a creature ai EiTex's, refufeJ.

Dryden's Virgil,

Atieriury.

.Cre'dible. a<^'. [credeiilis, L^t.] Worthy
of credit ; deferving of 43elief j having

If'/atts,

7.

-

nature is capable.
Ti'lotfon.
Calculate the feveral degrees of credibility and
conviction, by which the one evidence furpall'eth

:

God faw his image lively was exprefj'd,

And hi» own Wjrk a» his creation blefs'd.

and the latter to have all the
»ad evidence .of which'.*' thing of that

alto.gcther incredible,

.

Cry, Ob fweet creature, and then kifs me hard.
Shakelpean,
Ah, cruel creature, whom.flon; t]i
The^gods, to live in woods, h-ive Ic.
1-,
^d._
Some young frM(Kri;i have learmtneirle:ters and"
fyllabiet by having tliem palled upon little tablets..

As fubjccti ihcn the whole creaticn came,

probability.

The firfV r,f thofe opinions I (hall fliew to be

hand ;

And from thcu natures Adam them did name.

being that bcdowt exiltence.

Credibi'litv.

And then, Sir, wuuld he gripe and wring my

The things created ; the univerfe.

[creator,

A

few perlbns of an odious and defplfed country
could not have filled the world with believers, had
they not fliown undoubted i-;vA«/;a/j from the Divine Fcrfon who fent tliem o.n fuch a mefl'age.
Addifon tin the Chrifiian Religitm.

,

given up to t'lic ambition of fanie.

6.

or charafter : as, the creation of peers.

Slaliejfeate'i

is claimed.!

Shakefpeare' s Hamlet.

Nor think to-night of thy ill nature,

The aft of inverting with new qualities

M, fa-like, his mailer's face

That which gives a title to credit ; the
warrant upon which belief or authority

But of thy follies, idle creature.
Prior,
A good poei no fooner communicates his works,
but it is imagined he is a vain young creoturCi

ence.

Taytor,

But it confounds the breather. Sbak. Meaf. for M.

Crede'ntial. tt.f. [from fr^rfV^j, Lat.]

They have proclaim'd their m.t:efa£tion?.

Danjiei.cn Ireland.

ia his creation, in his confervation ci us.

My authority bears a credent bulk.
That no particular fcandal once can touch,

Shakefp. Richard \ll.
I've heard that guilty creatures at a'play.
Have, by the very cunning of the fcone.
Been ftruck fo to the foul, that prefeiitly

Crea'tion. n./. [from create.']
1
The aft of creating or conferring exiftCopfidcr the immenfity of the Divine Love,
expreflVd in all the emanations of his proiidcnce ;

Lefs proper.

And wear it as a favour..

of three thoufand acres for hinifelf, with power
to freate a manor, and hold a courc-baron.

Having credit j not to be queftioned.

z.

.And from the common creatures pluck a glove.

The beilBritilh undertaker had but a proportion

Crea'tor. n, /,

If with too credent ear you lift' his fongs.

No creature would affiil or pity him. Rofcommon.
5. A word of contempt for a human being.

thing in a new ftate.

2.

[credens, Latin.]
Believing ; eafy of belief.
Then weigh what lofs your honour may fuftain.

I .

Lo, Tantalus, I here tormented lie.'
[Sperfer,
Though he might burll his lungs to call for help,

Sbakefpeare's Cyminrtne.

To give any new qualities

4.

Cre'd&nt. adj.

She wandcr'd had from one to other Ind. Spenftr.

With dignities becoming your eftares.

Refledliag,

Thefe were the great articles and credenda of
Chriftianlty, that fo much ftartled the world. South,

Mod curfed of all creatures under iky,

To inveft with any new charafter.

articles

tical duties.

Yet crime in her could never creature i\ni^
But for hii love, and for her own felf fake,

And the lITue there create

3.

Things to
of faith j diftinguifhed in theology from agenda, or pracbe believed ;

An animal, not human.
Shakefpeare' s Cymbeline.

4.

Arburbnct.

2.

GMEDE'NDJ. n.f. [Latih.]

ledge only in killing creatures vile, as cats and dogs.

To beget.

5.

Stillingjlect-,

The queen pretended fatisfa^tion of her know-

tutions, by the uneallnefs it creates in the flomach.

4.

belief.
After they had delivered to the king their letters
of credence, they were led to a chamber richly furnifhcii.
Haytvard.

Tillotfin,

Rofcommoit,

That which gives a claim to credit 01

2.

Any thing created.
God's fii (I crcaiun was light. Bacon s New At!.
Imperfr^ the world, and all the creatures in it,
mull be acknowledged in many rcfpcds to be.

3.

Mufl 1 new bars to my own joy create,
Re/ule myfelf what I had forc'd from fate ?
Drydeni Aurengxebe^
Long abdinence is troublefome to acid confTi-

(

did not give to the creator, or for the worihip they

None knev.', till guilt created fear.

What darts or poifon'd arrows were.

[r«a/Br^, low Latin.]

the fupreme power.

Shakefpeare*

His abilities were prone to create in him great
confidence of undertakings, and this was like
enough to betray him to great errours and many
^^'^ Cbarlts.
enemies.
They edipfe the cleareft truths by difficulties o/
their own creating, or no man could mifs his way
Decay of Piety.
to heaven for want of light.

For he that made the fame was known right well
To have done much more admirable deeds j
It Merlin was,
Spenfer,
Love. and wifdom,
Approv'd fo to your majefty, may plead
For ample credence.
Shakefpeare.
They did not only underhand give out tlratthis
was the true earl j but the friar, finding fome credence In the people, took boldnefs in the pulpit to
declare as much.
Bacon.

A being not felf-exiftent, but created by

1 .

Would create foldiers, and make women fight.

3.

C R E
Ne let him feem that credence this exceeds.

Magnificent ; his fix days work, a world. Milton,
When you lie down, clofe your eyes with a fiiort
prayer, commit yourfelf into the hands of your
faithful creator; and when you have done, truft
him with yourfelf, as you muft do when you are
dying.
Taylor s Guide to Devotion.

of our minds, and much imperfefter yet of the

2.

CiR E
Open, ye heavens, your living doors ; let in
The great creator, from his work return'd

I.

[credit, Frencli.]

Belief of; faith yielded to antither.

When the people heard thcfe wordy, they gavC;

•

no credit unto them, nor received chcin.
I Mae. X. 46.

''

I may give i^rcdd to tc^QXUt. Adiiijm's SpeeUtor^!^

Some

C RE

C R E

^ R E

Among all thcfe fnarrs, there

Some fecret truths, t'rom learned pr'iJe concetl'd,

Tn ina'tds alone and children arc reveaPd

entangling than the creditahlencji

tlone fliwre
and repute of

l^^ii though no rrr</.'r doubling wits may give,

cuftjmary vices.

Decay of Piety.

Th( lair and innocent Ihall ItiU believe.

Honour

2.

]

P^fe.

publiflied,

is

I

gar, bath fo

no decaying merchant, or inward beg-

many tricks to uphold

the criJit ol

their wealth, as thefe empty perfons have to main-

1

Pcfi'i Jhraci.

manner, with regard to heaven and my own foul.
Addifn's SfieSintcr.
No man of honour, >as that word is ufualty undcrAood, did ever pretend that his honour obliged

belief.

We are contented to take this upon your credit,
Hocker.
and to think it may be,
The things which we properly believe, be onlyfuch as are received upon the credit of divine telliHooker*
mony.
The author would have done well to have left fo

Lecie,

word, Ills promifc, or his oath.

One who

Credu'lity.

They fenthimlikewife a copy of their fupplica-

Having credit enough with his maAer to provide

To-morrow, and to-morrow, .and to-morrow,
Creeps in this petty pace from day to day.

To the lall fy liable of retorded time.
Sbakeffieare's Macletb.

Why fhouid a man
Sleep when he wakes,'and creep into the jaundice
By being pcevifh ?
Shakejp. Merchant of Venict.
He who netps after plain, dull, common fenfe,

[credultts, Latin.]
unfufpefting ; eafily

from committing abfurdities, but can never
reach the cicccllcnce of wit. Dryden't Tyrar. Love.
is fafe

5.

Hopes thee, of flattei-y gales
Unmindful, haplelt he,
T' whom thou untry'd feem'ft fair.

I'll

Whate'er you are.

That in tliis defart inacceflible)
Under the fliade of melancholy boughs,
Lofe and negleia the creeping hours of ttoe. Sbak.

A form of words in which the ar-ticles
of faith are comprehended.
The larger and fuller view of this foundation
is fet down in the creeds of the church.
Hammond on Fundamentals.
Will they, who decry creeds and creedmakers,

1

thing.

May here her monument Hand f>>.
To credit this rude age and Ihnw
;

To future times, that even we
Some patterns did of virtue fee.

fyh/fer.

At prefcnt you credit the church as much by
y«ur government, as you did die fchool formerly
by your wit.
South.

2.

or venturing into dangers.
Paradife I.o(t

Any folemn profeflion of principles or

his elevations,

For me, my lords,

I

ile.]

Rcputation-j clcimation.

evident he creeps along

Dryden,

We

By thole gift; of nature and fortune l.e creeps,
nay he flies, into the favour of poor filly women.

CREEK. >t,f, [qiecca. Sax. heie. Dut.]

Cre'ditableniss. »./ [from cicdita-

is

Shall I (lay here,
CreeHni; my (hoes on the plain mafonry f Sbakeff>.

placci uf the ouiitry.

to promote our happincfi, ii but a more fpccious
fort of idlencfs, a more pardonable and credi:ai>/t
kind of ignnrancr.
Tilinfor,

it

To come unexpefted ;
unheard and unfeen.

To

h.tVing procured him by his intexft one of the beft

Honourable ; eftiraable.
The conieniplacicn of things, that do not fervo

when

make a harfh noife.
"]

.

admirable ; but am I therefore

here took a little boat, to creep along the
fea-(hore as far as Genoa.
Mdifin on Italy.

love him not, nor fear him ; there 's my creed.
Sbtshtf^eare.

Arbutbnot'i'jftbnBuli.

is

fomctimes for above an hundred lines together ?

opinion.

7» Creek, v.a. [See To Creak.]'

Reputable; above contempt.
He IctticJ him in a good crediuthU wayof living,

Atterbury.

To move timoroufly without fearing,
bound to maintain, that there arc no flats amongft

;

Cre'oitable. a/fj. [from tree/it,
1.

keep his firltdcdgn in countenance.
6.

Fiddes's Sermons,

1

To trull to confide in.
4. To admit as a debtor.
3.

PJalm civ. 20,

Now and then a work or two has crept in, to

not to make in it any collection of moral prctepts
2.

into houfcs,

and load captive filly women.
1 Timothy, iii. 6.
Thou makcft darknei's, and it Is night, wherein
all the hearts of the forcll do creep forth.

fay thatone whowritcsa treacifc of morality ought

was not upon defign to credit thefe papers,
nor to compliment a fociety fo much above flattery.
It

G/ar.vi/it.

Of this fort are they which creep

the apoftles creed.]

Glanville*

To procure credit or honour to any

2.

their

Shakefp. Meiry IVives offTwdja:
Milton.

To cruBt the unintelligibility both of this union Creed, n.f. [from rrfi/o, the iirft word of
and motion, we need no more than to confider it.

up into the chimney.
:

Aptnefs to believe ; credulity.

Sbakejpcare''i 'JuViut Ctpjjr.

creep

they always ufed to difcharge
birding-pieces
creep into the kiln-hole.

Cre'dulousness. «.y.' [from i-fW/z/ea^.]

And partly credit things that do prcfage.

To move fecretly and clandeftinely.

—There

Who always vacant, always amiable,

Latin.]

Now I change my mind,

To move flowly and feebly.

adj,

That he fufpefts none. Sbateffeare' s King Lear,
Who now enjoys thee credulous all gold.

Clarendon.

bounds or

leaps, as infefts.

Whofe nature is fo far from doing harm.

To believe.

1

4.

To move forward without

A credulous father, and a brother noble,

for his own intereft, he troubled not himicif for

[rr;</0,

Dryden.

The poor Plangus, being fubjcft to that only

believe ;
deceived.

tlon to the king, and defircd him to ofe his credi:
Clarendcn.
that a treat)' might be entered into.

T^o-Cre'dit. 'v.a.

Tlij grottos cocrl, with Ihady poplars crown'd.

And Creeping vines on arbours weav'd around.

Sbakifj>eare.

3.

Apt to

Dryden.

To grow along the ground, or on other
fupports.

French ;
Eafmefs of belief

CRE'DULOUS.

If they cannot diftinguiih creeping from Hying,
them lay down Virgil, and take up Ovid de

Ponto.

difadvantagc of honell hearts, credulity, was perfuaded by him.
Sidney,
The pfcjudice of credulity may, in fome meafure, be cured, by learning to fet a high value on
truth.
U'atti's Logici.

Mdifei.
not compulfive ; in-

that of other men.

Swift,

[ereeiulite,

n.f.

Latin.]
readinefs of credit.

Sidney.

'

Mi/tan,
let

2.

treilulitns,

She employed his nttermoft credit to relieve us,
which was as great as » beloved fon with a mother.

[cfiypan.

creft.

-Vc that walk

one who believes.

Many fought to feed
The cafy creditors of novelties,
By voicing him alive.

They have never thought of violating the •publick credit, or of alienating the revenues to other
ufes than to what tbcy have been thus aflijned.

power

credits,

Not ufcd.

6. Protnife given.

7. Influence;
tcrelK

pret.

The earth, and (tardy tread, or lowly creep l Milt.
And every crteprng thing that creeps the ground.

to endeavour to be wife or learned, to regard his

Truft repofed, with regard to property

within fome limited time.

n,

to be ufeful to his country, to do good to mankind,

correlative to Mt.
Credit is nothing but the ezpe£tation -of money,

'V.

Sax. krepan. Germ.]
To move with the belly to the ground,
without legs, as a worm.

1.

him to be chaise or temperate, to pay his erediton,-

2,

of

Stxrfer.

To CREEP.

am fo ufcd to confider -myfdf as creditor and

debtor, that 1 often ftatc my accounts after the fame

Full

"^

Pout'd forth a water, whofe outgiiihing flood
Run bathing all the creeiy (hore a-flot,
Whereon the Trojan ptiace fpilt Tumus' blooj.

;

Sbateffcare.

Shakefftare,

[from creek,

adj,

creek» ; unequal ; winding.
Who, leaning on the belly of a pot,

:

4. Faith i telUmony ; that wliich procures

5.

row lands.

Crc'eky.

S'yufb*

gives credit
correlative to debtor.
There came divers of Antonio's creditori in my
company to Venice, that fwear be cannot chuk
but break.

one that

;

commands ihc paii'ages of alloys, creeks, and nar.

1

1

Davies tn Ireland,

Any turn, or alley.
A baik-jricr.d, a tiioulder-clapper

3.

Cr e'd to r. rt.f. [frrJiior, Lfttin.]
He to whom a debt is owed he tliat

His Larning, though a poet faid it.
Before a phiy, would lofe no crctitt*
•
Swift*
Yes, while I live, no rich or noble knave
Shall walk the world in credit to his grave.

great a paradox only to the credit of a fingle alferLocke.
tion.

'

a bay ; a cove.

;

A law was made here to flop their pafTage !
every port a.id creek.

their duty

which will break their heart; too.

Baan.

tain the creJit of their fufficiency.

cret/ita/>/e.]

A fmall port

a.

fafely

'

'I'herc

[from

and crediiahly, than to get a broken pate in
the church's fervice, only to be rewarded with that

/*«/><.

Efteem ; good opinioB.

eidn.'.

Reputably; without difgrace.
Many will chufc rather to iie^Ieft

becaufc I was told I might pleafc

fiich as it was a crcjii to plcafe.

3.

Cre'ditabi.y.

reputation.

;

is

A prominence or jut in a winding coaft.
As dreams, which with their winding banks do
play,

.

,

,

Stopp'd by their cteekt,
plain.

i

,

run

foftly

7.

to Ileal

Sidney.
It ftems, the marriage

Has
—
— No,

of his brother's wife

crept too near his -?nf"ifn"r-

his coiifciencc

Has crept too near another lady.
through the

Davis.

They on the bank of Jordan, by a crut.
Where winds with reeds and offers whifp'ring play.
Their uncxpefled lofs and plaints ouibtcatb'd.
Milien.

forward

Sbak. II, VIII.

Necefiity enforced them, affer they grew full of
people, to fprrad themfelves, and creep out of Shi-

nar, or Babylonia.
Raleigh's Hijl.ry.
None pretends to know from how remote corners
ofthofc frozen mountains fome of thofe fierce ra.

twns fi;ll irr^t ouc.

1en.fle.

it

It is not to be expefled that every one- fliould
ganrd his undetftanding from being impofed on
by the fophiftry which crtefi into moft of the
Lc:lce,

books of argument.

To behave with fervility j to fawn j to

8.

ben-d.

Aftarte, queen of heaven, with crcjctm horns. ATih.

Says it will come to th' full. Sh^ik. Ant. and Clnf.
Or Ba£trian fophy, from the horns
Of Turkifh crejceni, leaves all wafte beyond

Mihim.
'The-rcalm of Aladule, in his retreat.
Jove in dufky clouds involves the ficieb.
And the faint crtjccr.t Ihoots by fits before their
Drydia.
eyes.

A plpnt that fupports itielf by means o£
fome Itronger body.
Plants that put forth their fap haftily, have
bodies not proportionable to their length j therefore they are winders or crirfirs, as ivy, briony,

And two fair crefcrnts of tranflucent horn
The brows of all their young increafe adorn.
Pope's Oiyjpy.

Bacon.

and woodbine.

An iron ufed to Aide along the grate in

creafmg ; growing.

kitchens.
3.

So the prince obfcur'd his contemplation

A kind of patten or clog worn by wo-

Under the veil of wild.nefs, which no diubt
Grew, like the fummer gtals, falteft by night,

men.

Cree'phole. «./ {^creep and hch.'\
1.

A hole into which any animal may
Afubterfuge; an excufe.
ad'v.
[ from

Its fliiwer confifts of four leaves, placed in form
of acrofs: the pointal arifes from the centre of
the flower-cup, and becomes a roundifli fmooth
fruit, divided into two cells, and furnilhed with

mind, was even fuch as, by each dcjsree of Zelmane's words, crrtf'nt^lj entered into Phjioclea's.

His court, with nettles and withrr^i (Vor'd,
With-foups unbought, and fallads, bleil his board.

A lame

perfon ; a cripple.
She to whom this world mull itfelf refer
She, <he

is

dead, (he's dead when thou know'ft

thii,

Thou know'ft how lame a crnple this world is.
Danre.

Crema'tion, «./.

[cremai ia, Lztin.]

A

burning.

CRE'MOR. n.f. [Latin.] A milky fub-

An

Farrier's DiB.
of the foot.
To CRETITATE. -v. n. [erepito, Latin.]

The plume of feathers on the top of the
ancient helmet ; the helmet.

1

fmall crackling noife.
Crb'pt. partkip. [from creep.]
There ate certain men treft in unawares. Jude.
This f«ir vir.e, but that her arms fjrround
Her married elm, hidfr<y/ along the gnund. Pipe.
CREPU'SCULE. n.f. [crepu/culum, Lat.]

His valour, ihewn upon our trejls to-day.

calls him crejied.
Others on ground
Walk'd firm ; the ertfted cock, whofe clarion
fjunds
Milton's Paradift L'ft.
The filent hours.

Glimmering ; in a ftate between light
and darkaefs.
4.

".

Any tuft or ornament on the head ; as
fome which the poets alTign to ferpepts.
Their crrjls divide.

And, tow'ring o'er his head, in triumph ride.

CRE'SCENT.
creafe.

him 10 Btitjin : he was then of j
SiaJu/fiarc'i Cjrilrhnc.

he-

thou waft Lorn
Thy fathers father wore it. Shak. jls ycu like it.
It was a crefl ere

Glamiiltii Scefjtt.

aJJ. [from cre/ce, Latin.]
Increaftng ; growing ; in a ftate of in-

in

The horn ^•

A clofe apprehenfion of the one, might perhaps

CTijUvt acl«.

Having the qualities of chalk; chalky.

1.

What gives the light, feems hard to fay
thcr

it

be the cretaceous

fait,

;

whs.,

the nitrous fait, or

fome igneous particler,

Crr^w* -

Abounding witn chalk.

2.

Dryden'l Virgil.
5.

Pride; fpirit ;
of mien.

fire ;

A

a narrow opening.
1 pried

They fidl their trfs,

me through the crevice of a waM,

When for his hand he had his two funs heads,
Sbakejfeart,
I thought it no breach of good-manners to

and look in at people

at a crevice,

ployed.

fo well

peep

em*

Aditifm'i SpeflBtor,

7oCre'vice. -v.

To crack

;

a.

[ from-

the

noun.]

to flaw.

So laid, they are more apt in f.vagging down ta.
pierce with their points, than in the j:iceiit pollute,
and fo X.0 crevice the wn'l.

JVctton'i ArJjle^turr.

CREW. ;;./ [probably from cjntb. Sax.]
I. A company of people aflbciated for any
purpofe : as gallant creiv, for troops.
Che'vj'^chafc\

There a noble crew

Of lords and ladies ftood on every fide,
Which with their picfence fair the place mnciv
beautified.

The company of a Ihlp.

z.

3.

The anchors dropp'd, hisoi-wtheveirels moor.
Drydcns Aim iJ^
It is now generally ufed in a bad fenfe.
One of the banilh'd crew,
I fear,

hath vcntur'd from the deep, to rai&

New troubles.

Milton's Etradifc Loft,

,

^le, with a cre^v, whom like .wnbition joins
With him, or under him U'tyrannize,
uching from Eden tow'rds the wcO, (hall find

M

The plain.
Miltcn'i ParadiJ'e Left,
The laft Was he, whofe thunder flew
The 7'itan race, a rebel crew.
Addijon,
Cr sw. [the preterite of crmu.]
The cotk frc7r.
Biile,
Cre'wel. n. f. [klenuel, Dutch.] Yarn
twifted, and wound on a knot or ball.
Take filk or cntvel, gold or filKr thread, and
.

make thefe fail at the bent of the hook.
IValton't Angler.

Siaktfpcare.

'

S^enjer.
_

courage ; loftiiiefs

Wli'n horfts (hould cndurt the bloody fpur.

'

,

raldry.
Of what efteem fr<yfj were, in the time of king
Edward the Third's reign, may appear by his giving an eagle, which he himfelf had formerly born,
for a crift to William Moncacute, earl of Saliibury.
Carnden's Rcmaim.

Dtil.

afford a glimmering light and trifufcuSiiui glance
Bmvi.
of the otbf r«
The beginnings of philofophy were in a trtfuftiikus obfcurity, aod it is yet fearer paft the dawn.

The ornament of the helmet

3.

Crepu'sculous. adj. [crepu/culum .Lut.]

I have fecn

CRETA'CEOUS. adj. [r/f.-a, chalk, Lat.]

Hath taught us h'>w to cherilh fuch high deeds,
Ev'n in the bofom of our adverfaties.
Shoktffeare's Henry IV.
2. The comb of a cock : whence Milton

It.

Twilight.

Fr.

[croijfette,

Pendent by fubtic ma^ick, many a row
Of ftarry lamps, and t.iizing crrffers, fed
With naphtha and afphaltus, yielded light
Milton's Paradije Loft.
As from a (ky.

To make a fmall crackling noife.
Cr E p T a't o h. /. [from crepitate.] A
1

n. f.

Shalcjf tare's llevry IV.
From the arched roof.

Wctid'vuai J.

farriers.]

olcer feated in the midll of the forepr\rt

I

His grandtathei was Lionel duke of Clarence,
Third Ion to the third Edward king of England,"
Sprung creftlf yeomen from fo deep a root. Shot,

CREST. «./ [criJUi, Latin.]

[With

Not dig'*

not of any

eminent family.

Of burning crejjitt.

[from crena, Latin.]

depth.

n.f.

nified with coat-armour j

bed with chalk.
DiB.
C.'^e'vice. >i.f, [from crever, Fr. crcpare,
Latin, to burft.]
crack ; a cleft

round

Cre'pane.

cowed ;

heartiefs ; fpiritlefs.
1 warrant you, they would whip me with their
fine wits, till I were as crtft-falUn as a dried pear.
SLakefpeare's Merry Wives of IVindfor.
They prolate their words in a whining kind of
quel ulcus tone, as if they were ftill complaining
and crift fallen,
Hticell.

Creta'ted. adj. [(;««/»/, Latin.] Rub-

mingled with dlffolvent juices, it is reduced into a
Ray.

The cells are prettily frraafri/, or notched, r,ii'te
but not Hraitcd down to any
t!ie edges ;

{creji z^ni fall.]

dilpiriteJ ;

beacons had croifes anciently on their
tops.] A great light fet upon a beacon,
Hantner.
light-houfe, or watch-tower.
They ftill raile armies in Scotland by
carrying about the fire-crofs.
At my nativity
The front of heav'n was full of fiery fparks,

chyle or frnf?or.

Notched ; indented.

ctdj.

funk ;

Dejefted ;

Nor from the fable ground expeiS fuccefs,
Nor from cretaceous, ftubborn and jejune. Philips.

The food is fwalloweJ into the ftomach, where,

adj.

Jove made not him his mafter-piece below. Dry J,

Crest-fallen,

Pope.

llance ; a foft liquor refembling cream.

Cre'nated.

But lac'd his ertfted ht\m, and ftrode away. Drjdw
Wearing a comb.
The crcfted bird Ihall by experience know,

becaufe

Cre'sset.

As fuburbs cr the roicroc fm of her,

2.

Miller,

feeds, generally fmooth.

Sidrey.

creep."]

An

Lat.]

herb.
creeping. ]

Slowly ; after the manner of a reptile.
The joy, which wrought into Pygmalion's

Cree'ple. n. /. [from

»fl/?«r//«/»,

Milton,

Cre'stl&ss. adj. [from fc^y?.]

Cress, n.f. [perhaps from rr^ff, it being
a quick grower ;

CuEE'piNGLr.

duft.

At this, for new replies he did not ftay

iibak. H. V.

Unfeen, yetirr/irof in his faculty.

creep to efcape danger.
2.

In-

Q,?.i.'\c\\z.aJj. [from rr^s, Latin.]

err/fat us,

The bold Afcalonites
Then grov'Ilng foil'd their crefted helmets in the

My pow'r's a cnjcent, and my auguring hope

Cre'eper. »./. [from creep .]

[from ere/?;

Adorned with a plume or creft.

1.

;

To come as humbly as they us'd to creef
To h.jjy altars. Sbakefftare' i Trti/us and Crij^de.

ad/,

Latin.]

Cre'scent. ». /. [cre/cens, Lat.] The
moon in her ftate of increaie any fimi-,
litude of the moon increafmg.

To fend their fmiles before them to Achilles,

2.

C re's TED.

With tlicfe in troop

Came Aftorcth, whom the Phoenicians cali'd

They were usM to bendj-

1

C R I

C R E

C R E

CRIB. n.f. [cpybbe. Sax. cril>, German.]
I .

Tlic ruck or iiiatigcr of u ilablc<

'-

-

1

TC'RM

C R I

Let a boll be lord- of>beaiNr and his crii
ftind at the king's melli.

Sbaktfptart'i Hiir.ln.

The llc^r anJ lion jt one crih Ihall meet.
Anil harmlefs ferpents lick the pilgrim's (cct, Poff.

2.

The Hall or cabin of an ox.

3. A fmall habitation

;

My foes could not procure me any fcathe,

Hiall

So long as I am loyal, true, and crhmleft.
Sbakifpeare'sHenrjV\.
Ci.iMtnk\..-adj. [from crime.]
1.

a cottage.

Stakfj'pfare*

To Grib. v. «. [from the noun.] To fliut
to confine ;

Now I am cabbin'd, eriti'J, confin'd, bound in
To laucy doubts and I'cars.
Shahcjficarc's Mad.

A game at cards.

CRi'sBLE.a./. [criirum, Latin.] Acornfieve.
Dia.

Cribra'tiov. »./ [<:r/'irfl, Latin.] The
aft of fifting, or feparating by afieve.

nocent.

Cri'cket. n. /

[krekel,

from ireken, to

An infect that fqueaks or chirps about
ovens and fireplaces.
Didft thou not hear a noife ?

—I heard the owl fcream, and the cr'nktti cry.

_

(he deny <he appearance of a naked Hind boy^ in
her naked feeing Ic'f ?
Shakrffetrt' t Henry V.

Rogers.'.

Not civil': as, a rr;»w'«a/ profecution

Far from al! refort of mtrth.
Save the critiel on the hearth.
Mi'icn.
The folemn death-watch click'd the lioor (he

Beauty's enfign yet

;,

Ismir/onin thy lips, and in thy cheeks. Sbakejf,
The cripifon Ofeam diliaio'd his arms itouni,.
And the difdainful foul canie rudiiiig through the
wound.
Drydens Mneid.
To Cri'msoj*. '1/. 'a. [frbm the noun,]

Cri'minal. n.f. [.frohimwf.]
1. A man accufed.
Was ever criminal forbid to plead ?

.

,

To dye with crimfon.

And (hrilling crickitt in the chimney cried, dy.
z. [from cpyce, Saxon, a ftick.] A fport,
at .which the contenders drive a ball

adv. [from criminal.]
Not innocently ; wickedly ; guiltily.
As our thoughts extend to all fubjefts, they
may be criminaiiy employed on alt.
Bcgcrs.
Cri'm IN ALNESS, n.f. [from criminal.]
Guiltinefs; want of innocence.

with (licks. in oppofition to each other.
The judge, to dance, his brother ferjeant call
The fcnator at trUktt urge the ball.
P->[ie.
3. [from ^r/Vfit^o/Germ.- to«reep.] Alow
feat or ftool.

Cri'ckb-ting Apple. H.f. A fmall fpecies
of apple.

The officer
(Vhofe bufinefs is to cry or make procla[from

cry.]

He openeth his moath like a (ritr. Etcl, xx.
command filence, and

i

mvllftude prefcnt (land In a fufpenfe.

Brnru-wd on Languagts.

*'^'

Dry din.

;

fervile civility.
Let me be grateful ; but let far from me
Be fawning crirge, and falfc diflembling lookst

PUnft.

Cri'mi N ATORY. cidj. [from crimina, LaRelating to accufation; accufing;

tin.]

cenlorious,

C R i'm N o u s
I

Wicked

;

adj. [crimimfus, Latin.]
iniquitous ; enormontly guilty.
.

The p\ini(Ilmeiit that belongs to that grest And
crimlnoks guilt,

is

the forfeiture of his right and

chim to all mercies, which are made over to him
by Chrift.

Hammed.

Cri'minousl^'. adt-. [from criminous.]
Enormoudy; very wickedly.
Some particular duties of piety and charity,
which were mo2 crimimnjly omitted before.
Hammond.
C R I ' M I K o u s .v E s s . ». [ from criminous.

Wickednefs ;

]

guilt ; crime.

I could

never be convinced of any fuch trhnin'Mjnrfs in him, as willingly to expnfe his liSs to the
Itroke of juHice, and malice of his enemies.

To CRINGE, v. a. [from kriechen, German.] To draw together; tocontraft.
Whip him, fellows.
Till, like a boy, you fee him cringe his face,

And whine aloud for mercy. Sbak. Ant. and Cleof.
To Cringe, -v. n. [kriichen, German.]
To bow ; to pay court with bows ; to
fawn ; to flatter.

.

Flatterers have the flexor mufcles fo ftrong, that
they are always bowliig and cringing.
Arbutbmt,
'i'iie cringing

Upon h'-v hrad a crimcjin coronet,
With d;ima(k rofes and daffadilies fet,

;

Or WTApped be in loves of former dame.
With crime do not it cover, but dlfclofe the fame.

Crini'gerous.

And prinirofcs gr-.!en,

fily

virtue.

Treads thcciimjt earth, ranging through- Bcldritnd

So crimtfulmi {0 capital in nature.

2.

Pli!i[,s.

Not connitertt; not

forcible:

a low

cant word.

The

trvidcnce

diminutive of cra^/ff?.
Unlefs fomc fweetnefs at the bottom lie.

Who cares for all the crinkling of the pie >

Inno-

.

^

.

Kings Cxkerf,

wrinkle ; a finuofity.
adj.
[from crinis, Latin.]
Hairy.
Dia.
C R I n o's I T Y «. /. [from crinc/e.] Hairi.

cnmf j

the

wJtnelTcs

fwcar

backwards and forwards, and cnntradiA thc'm-

To Cri'mple. v. a. [from rumple, crumple, crimpk.]

Dia.

r.efs.

CRI'PPLE.
Dutch.]

[ cnypcl. Sax. krepel.
larte rain ; one that has lofl

«. /.

A

priety. Writes it creeple, from creep.
He, poor man, by your firft order died.
And that a winged Mercury did bear ;
Some tardy cripple had the countermand,
,
That came too Lag to fee bin) buried. Sbakefpeare,
I am 4 cripple]^ myllmbs; but what decays arc
in my nilnd, the rcaJrt- miiil determine.
hryj.
Among the teft there was a lame cripple from
_

is

.elrhuttmt'! Jihn Ball,

Sbak. Iljmi't.

[from crime.]

glades.

felves; and his tenants ftick by him.

You proceeded not againft tlicfc feats.

Sioifi.

Latin.]

or never enjoyed the ufe of his limbs.
Donne, svith great .tppearance of pro-

By thefe good omens, with fwift early fteps,

Witian.

ac/J. [from crime and fiJ/.]
Wick«d.; criminal ; faulty in a high
degree ; contrary to July ; contrary to

reduced to powder.

Now the fowler, warn'd

M,!ion.

Cri'miful.

[criniger,

Hairy ; overgrown with hair.
Di^.
To CRl'NKLE. 'V. n. [krinckelen, Dutch.]
To go in and out ; to run in flexures

;

'

No-frimewas thine, if 'tis no crimt to love. Pae.

Sfcnfer's Pcji<.rals.

Cr'Imp. adj. [from crumble, or crimbte.]
1
Friable ; brittle eafily crumbled ; ea-

Like in puniihment

As in tHeir i-nW._

ad),

CRl'NOSE.

Buy leaves between.
Embclliih the white violet.

Spenfir.

Undergo with me on* guilt, one crimt,

Of tailing.

knave, who feeks a place

Without fucctfs, thus tells his cafe.

Cri'mosin. adj. [crimofino, Italian; com- 7» Cri NKLE. I". «. To mould into inequalities.
monly written as it is pronounced, crimCri'nkle. /;. /. [from the verb.] A
/on.] A fpecies of red colour.

great fault ; an adof wickednefs.
High God. be witnefs that I giiiltlrfs am
j
But if yourfelf. Sir knight, ye guilty find.

cent i without crime.

For jcalouCy is but a kind

Of clap and crincum of the mind.
Hudibrat,
Cringe. ». /. [from the verb.] Bow;

K:rg Claries.

CRIME, n. /. [crimen, Lat. crime, Fr.]
Ah aft contrary to right an offence a

Oi/J.

a contraftion ; whirafy.

;

The critr calls aloud
Our'old nobility of Trojan Wood,
Wko gape among the crowd for rfieir precarious

Cri'meless.

.

Shakifpiart.

raignment ; charge.

5.

the whole

wall thou bay'd,

Cri'ncum. n.f. [a cant word.] A cramp;

Cri m N a'tion. n.f. [crimliiatio, Latin.]
The aft of accufing accufatlon ; ar-

/

mation.

tiixt

brave hart

Here didft thou fall ; and here thy hunters (land
Sign'd in thy fpoil, and crimfin d\a thy. letbe.

by war, o(- by any other difailer, but by jliftice and
fcnfencc, as dirlinquents snd criminats.
Bacm.

.

Cr)'ei<.». /

Pardon me, Julius,

All three perfons that had held chief place of
authority in their countries ; all three ruined, not

died,

Pr'iort

Red in general.
Can you blame her then, being a maid /et
rofed over with the virgin crimfin of modelty, if

|

I

ShaUJpfare,

,

The blulhing poppy wth a crimfin hue ?
2.

Cri'minally.

make a noife, Dutch.]

crUrt

By/e on CJours.

Why does the foil endue

the criininiil law.

A pain-

ful lUiFnefs in the neck.

The

fome kinds of red
fcem to be little elfe than heightened yellow.

A

2. [from cpyce, Saxon, a Aake.]

.

,

ders us criminal in the fight of GoJ.

3.

door.

'

As crim/cn (ctmi to be little elfe than a very deep

The negleft of any of the relative duties, rtn-l

The noife of a

[from criceo, Italian.^

Red, fomewhat darkened with blue.
red, with an eye of blue ; fo

Curb your ill-manncr'd zeal. Drjdtn'i Spttiijh Fr,
man guilty of a crime.
2.

Crick, n./,

I.

1.

contrary

Guilty; tainted with crime; not in

2.

to cage.

1.

contrary to right ;
contrary to law.

JVtftman^s Surgery,

t

Upon uneafjr pallets llretching thee,
Than in the perfum'd chambers of the great ?

Cri'bbage. n./.

Faulty;

cordinglv erimptfd them up.

CRI'MS'ON. n.f. [crimc/tno, Italian.]

to duty ;
Li«e thou, and to thy mother dead atteft-,
Thai clear (he died from blemilh crim'wal. Stevferi
What we approve in our friend, we can nardly
be induced to think rrimii>,j/ in ourfirlves. Scgrri.,

"Why rather, fleep, lied thou in (laotkj crlhs.

up in a narrow lubit^tion ;

He paired the cautery through them, and ae-

Tocontraft; to corrugate;

to caufe to flirink or contraft.

his birth, whom Haul commanded to ftand ujA-ight

on his feet.

Bentley.

Sec the blind begjiar dance, the eriffle fing.

The fot a hero, lunatick a king.

Pope.

Tt

C R I

C R O

C R I

-

To Cri'ppi-E. -v. «. [from the noun.] To Crispisu'lcant. a(/j, [cri/pifulcans^'Lvitin.] Waved, or undulating, as lightlame to make lame ; to deprive of the

z.

Di£l.
ning is reprefented.
CRrspNESs.ff.yi [fromrr///.] Curlednefs.
Cri'spy. adj, [from cri/p,] Curled.

3.

Relating to criticifm

life of limbs.

Knots upon his gi- -ty joints appear.
Dryd.

And chalk is in his crifftid fingers found.

the dancing-mafter, threw himfelf
from the rock, but was crippled in the fall. Add'ij.

To be the dowry o? a fccond head.

[from cripple.
n. f.
Lamenefs ; privation of the limbs. Dici.

Crite'rion. n,f. [k^it^J^ioi'.]

Tettyx,

Cri'ppleness.
Cri'sis. n. /.

Diydcn.

Till fomc fafc cnjii authorize their (kill.

2. The point of time at which any affair
comes to the height.

Mutual agreement and endearments was the
badge of primitive believers ; but wc may be

And all the colour of your life, depends
Drydtnt Spjvijh F'lar,

The undertaking, which I am now laying do n,
was entered upon in thi- very ir',Jis of the Ijte re-

CRISP,

;

This fettles truer ideas in men's minds of fcveial
things, whereof we read the names in ancient
authors, tlun all die large and laborious argunlent^

aQifrance

of ciit'id),

flat

and

nofed,

crif/.

Halt.

haired.

Crx'tically. ad-ji. [from critical.]

very

i't^pe.

C

2. Indented ; winding.
You nymphs, call'd Naiads, of the winding

And fix their own with labour in their place. Pc'/'f.
Whete an author has many beauties confiltent

brooks,
With your fcdf'd crowns, and ever harmlef; look?,
Leave your cr'tfji channels, and on this green land
Anfwer your fummons ; Juno does command.

with %ittue, piety, and truth, let not little :rin,ki
exalt thcmlelvcs, and ihower down their ill-

7'o

nature.

1.

A cenfurer

4.

Shakifftari.

3. Brittle ; friable.
In frofty weather, mufick within doors f.>tmdeth
better j which may be by reafon, not of the difpo£tion of the air, but of the wood or ftrlng of the
inftrument, which is made more crifp, and fo more
Bacan^t Natural H.Jl'^ry*
porous and hollow.

To Crisp, -v. a. [iri/po, Latin.]
1 .

To curl

; to contract into knots or curls.
Severn, affrighted with their bloody looks.
Ran fearfully among the trembling reeds,
Asd bid his crijf'd bead in the hollow bank.

fevere iri/;rii on you and your ni-tghb'iur.

Sharp^s Surgery,

To twill.
Ati/fan*

to run in and out.
;
From that faphine fount the criffed bTon\af

Rolling on orient pearl and fande of gold.
Ran neflar, vifiting each plant.
f.

I

he lions are hirfute, and have great manrs ; the
Ihf's are fmooth, like eats'.
Baton.

A

curling iron.

The change ible fuits of apparel, and the manand the wimples, and the iriff'mg-pini.
Ijiiuh. iii. 22.
I.

rity, to criiici/e the author, fo long as I

Cri'ticism.
1.

2,

it

was

firft

inftituted

by

Remark

;

Drjden's Innocence, Preface,
animadverfion ; critical ob-

fervations.
There is not a Greek or Latin critick, who has
not (hewn, even in the ftile of his criticifms, that
he was a mafler of all the eloquence and delicacy of
his native tongue.
JlddiJ-jn,

To CROAK,

Temple,

nicely judicious ; accurate ; di-

Addijtin,

[(rom critick]

n. /.

Criticifm, as

ing well.

but a
Pope.

f

.

n,

crocare, Italian ;
I .

F.xaiSk;

keep cloir

ArillotJe, was meant a ftandard ofjudg.

Cri'tical. adj, [irom critick.'\
I.

Locke,

Cr i'ticise. v. a, [from criticL] To
cenfure ; to pafs judgment upon.
Nor (hall 1 look upon it as any b^ejch of cha-

Locke,
life,

pl.iy the critick ; to criticize.
They do but trace over the paths that have been
beaten by the ancients ; or comment, critick, and
flourifh upon them.

occaiion 'tVom

of the pcrfon.

If ideas and words were diftinOIy weighed, and
duly confidered, they would afford iis another foi*
of logick and cr'ukk than what we have been

[from rr/^.]

Some differ in tlie hair and feathers, both in
the quantity, crifparkn, and colours of them j as

Vor..

•r»

My verfe gave ampler leffou'. to mankind. Pope.
To Cri'tick. 1/. «. [from crieici.] To

The aft of curling.
2. The Hate of being curled.

;

as to take
thence to critic>Je on his expences.

office?,

What is every year of a wife man's
cenfure and critique on the paft ?

rt.

Nor would 1 have his fa'^her look fo narrowly

Science of criticifm.

2.

Ifrom rritici.]
to judge; to write
remarks upon any performance of literature ; to point out faults and beauties.
-v.

into tlu'fe accounts,

and write fuch another
cririiA on any thing of mine.
Dryden.
I fhould as foon expeft to fee a critique on tht
poefy of a ring, as on the infcription of a medal.
AJdiJ'on en Medals,

incidence

To animadvert upon as faulty.

2.

(hfuldbe glad if 1 could perfuade him to con-

tinue his go->d

Mjlton,

Cri'spino-pin. 71./. [from cri/p.]

re-

marks ; animadverfions.

1.

ties,

critical

Cri'tictse.

To pKiy the critick

Not th It my quill to criticki was confin'd ;

To indent

Crispa'tion. n

A critical examination;

nicety ;

I

Cri'tick. n./.
1.

accuracy ;

They \Nho «jn :ritutjc fi weakly, as to imagine
have done my worlt, ma) be convinced, at rhiir
own cort, th;>t I can write feverely with more c ife
Dryditi,
than I can gently.
Know well each ancient's proper charaftcr ;
Without all this at once before your eyes.
Civil you may, but never crjf/ri/^.
P:p!,

to

relating to the art of judging

hitherto acquainted with.

Along the crtfped (hades and bow'n
Revels the fprucc and jocund fpriRg.
3.

Sivift.

relating

thence arts o'er all the nortliern world advance,
Butrri;ii-;Heamingflouri(h'd mod in France. Pope.

Call in thoufand fnares and rings.

1 gangrene.

Critical;

of literary performances.

Yet a man, with irijfcd hair.

2.

adj.

criticifra ;

Shaieffeait'i Hcmy IV.
Young I'd have him too ;

For love's fingers, and his rings. Ben ^wfcn.
Spirit of wine is not only un6t for inAaromations in general, but alfo trifpt up the veflels of
the dura mater and brain, and fomctimes produces

adnefs ;

My ;hief defign, next to leeing you, is to be 3
Cri'tick.

IV^-^ard,

at a particular point of time.

a roan apt to find fault.

;

many learned men.

,

At the exaft point of time.
i't ic a l n ess. ti./. [from critical.] Ex-

z.

U^atii.

exatlly ; curi.

But you with plcafuie own yourerrouss pa!I,

Ciilicks I faw, that others n:tmes deface.

;

oully.
DiEcult it io tn underftand the purity of Englifli,
and critically to dif..erii good writers fiom btd,
Oryden',
and a proper ftllc fnm a corrupt one.
TheTc (hells which are digged up out oi
e.irth, feveial hundiedi of which I now keep by
me, have been nicely and critically e-trmired by-

Bope.

And m:ikeeach day a cntt^k on the i.i:l.
3. A fnarler ; a carper ; a caviller.

mamwr

In a critical

I.

An examiner; a judge.

Bulls are more crijp on the forehead than cows.

Producing a crilis or change of the difeafe: as, d critical fwczl,

6.

LoLkt.

For 'tis but half a judge's taflt to know.
2.

The Ethiopian black,

prehenfinns of the power of France, in fo criticaf »
Strift.
juntture, "vholl; laid afide.

Now learn what morals rrU'icki ought to (how,

[crij}u!, Latin.]

Srmiwi.

Spralt's

the faults and beauties of writing.

w:is ri.z duty

Curled.

1.

Opportunity is in refpeft to time, in fome fcnfe,%
time is in refpecl to eternity :' it is the fmall
moment, the exaifl point, the critical minute, osi
which eveiy good woik fo much depends.
a5

The people cannot but refent to fee their ap-

CRI'TICK. «./ [....r^,;.]
1. A man (killed in the art of judging of
literature
a man able to diilinguifh

.

atij.

Decifive ; nice.

5.

Houth.

If this is prir'd for fwtcUjefs, that for flink ?

of e^cry Briton lo
to the government, in a manner fuitablc to his ftacion and
abilitirs,
^dd:f^ns Frtekotdtr^
it

contribute his utm^ft

j

and the critical or decretory days to be dependent,
on tliat nuinber.
Brown's Vvlgar Erroutsi

man may difcover and find out thegrtciouv

or ungracious difpolicion of his own hcirt.
By what oiterion do you cjt, d')e tliink|

>

bellion, when

—

We have here a lure infallible critenenf by which
every

a

Captious; inclined to find fault.
What wouldll thou write of me, if thou ihouldft
praife mc ?—
O, gi-ntlc laJy, do not put mc to 't
For I am nothing, if not critical, .'ihakefp. Otlelh.
4. [from o-yii.'^ Comprifing the time at
which a great event is determined.
The moon li fuppofed to be me.ifured by fcvcns,

known by the contrary r/'i/cr-on. Glanf'iilc^s Si.e/;fis.

J'j/f's Uvrace.

This hour 's the vciy crifii of your^fate ;
Your good or ill, your intamy or tame.
this irr.portant now.

a mark by

which any thing is judged of, with regard to its goodnefs or badnefs.

[x^icrij.]

or changes to the better ; the decifive
moment when fentence is paffed.
Wife leeches will not vain receipts obtrude j
Deaf to complaints, tliey wait upon the ill,

On

i^hakejpeare'i Merchant of yer.kc.

'\

The point in which the difeafe kills,

1.

So are thofe crjpy I'naky i.jcki, oft known

as, be 'wrote

:

critical differtation on the laft play,

;

[cjiace/.zan,

Saxon ;

crocitare, Latin.]

To make a hoarfe low noife, like a frog.
T: c fubtle fw illow ^\c.'^ ibout the bn^ok.

ligent.

And qiierulous frogs in muddy pools do croak.

the judgment of more eritic.it
errs, to Jire£i and drtctmine what is gtacetil ^nd
what is not.
iLlJer,
Vlt^il was fo eriiu-alin the ritea of religion, that

So wh;n Jove's block defcended from on high,
I.oud thunder to if; bottom ihook the bog.
And the hoarfe nation croot'rf.
Pope.

May's n-gil.

It is fiibtr.itted to

he would ne\er have bruughi in fuch prayers as
thrif, if they had (wtbeen ajteeillc to the Roman
cuilom
Si«7m^/«f.

Blood, ftoff'J iii(kins, isBtiti(h chriftiansfoodj

And France rob> marlhcs of the croaking brood.
Cay.

.

3

L

3.

To

.

•

.

C R O

C R O

C R O

To caw, or cry as a raven or crow.

Cjioi!.a'de. ) «./ [creifade, French, from
A holy
croix, a crofs.]
Croisa'po. J
war ; a war carried on againil infidels

bimfclf is hoarle.
That crwii the fjul cnti-ance of Duncan
Sbahjptare.
Vnder ni> battltmenU.
The boarfe raven, on the blafted bough,
I'lie raveu

By trudiitig from the

left,

At the fame time the walk of elms, with the
iioakirg of the ravens, looks exceeding foletnn and
j1Jd:firi.
\enerablc.

3. It

may be ufed in contempt for any

difagreeable or ofFenfive murmur.
Their uniierllandings arc but

little

The fwallow Jkims the river's watry face ;
The frogs renew the croaki of their loquacious
Drydtn.

race.

Was that a raven's cnak, or my fon't voice i

Ko matter which, I'll to the grave and hide roe.
Lee.

Cao'cEOUs. adj.

[crtceus, Latin.]

fifting of faiFron ; liice faffron.

ConDi^.

Crocita'tion. n.f. [crccitatio, Latin.]
The croaking of frogs or ravens. /)/<!?.

CROCK.

»./. [truici, Dutch.]

A cup ;

any veffel made of earth.
Cro'ckery. n. /. Earthenware.

Crone, n.f.
Vcrfiegan ;
Skinner. '\
1.

Glofter's (how

Withforrow fnares relenting paffengers.
Shakeff care's Henry VI.
CneMes were thought to be peculiar unto the

Bnvin'i Vulgar Errcun.
Cxfar will weep, the crocodile will weep*- Dryd.
whofe
tears are death ;
erocodiUi,
Enticing
Salens, that murder with enchanting breath.

Kile.

As crocked in thy manners as thy (hape.

night, and (inding his avcrlion, endeavours to win
Dryden,
his affeflion by teafon.

The hair which grows

Cro'codii.ine. adj,
Like a crocodile.

Cro'cus. n./.

[crocediliauj, Lat.]

Di3.

A flower.
Tiffin.

Cropt. ». / [cnop. Saxon.]

A little

clofe joining to a houfe, that is ufed for
corn or pafture.

Thij^ave I learn'd.
Tending my (locks hjiJ by, i' ih' billy trc/is
MiUen.
ThatkrowUiii bottom glade.

Untowardly ; not compliantly.
If we walk perverfely with

God, he will walk

croookedty towards us. Taylor's Rule of Living Holy,

quaintance ; a companion of long Hand-

Croo'kedness. n.f. [from crooked.]
1

Deviation from ftraightnefs j curvity ;
the ftate of being inflected ; inflexion.
He that knowcth what is (traight, doth even
thereby difcern what is crooked i becaufe the ab.

Th' efpoufers of your caufe and monies. Hudibrat,
To oblige your crony Swift,
Bring our dame a new year's gift.
Strange, an a(trologer Oiould die
Without one wonder in the Iky !
Not one of all his crctiy ftars
To pay their duty at his herfe

Sivifl.

fence of ftraightnefs, in bodies capable thereof, ia

Hooker.

crackednejs.

2.
S-wif'.

I

Deformity of a gibbous body.
When the heathens o(tered a facri(ice to their
they would make a fevere fearch to (ce
were any crookcdeefs or fpot, any unclean-

falfe gods,

CROOK. «./. [crcc, French.]

if there

1

Any crooked or bent inftrnment.

2.

A fheephook.

nefs or deformity, in their facrilice.

layhr's Wortby Conmusicant.

CROP. n.f. [cpop, Saxon.] The craw of

fing the man who Judah's fceptre bore
In that right hand which held the crook before.
I

a bird ; the firft ftomach into which

tcicley.

He left his erook, be left his flocks,

its

meat defcends.
In birds there ii no maftication or comminution
of the meat in the mouth ; but, in fuch as are not
carnivorous, it is immediately fwallowed into the
•

Andwand'ring through the lonely rocks,
Prior.

He nouri(h'd cndlefs woe.
3.

Any thing bent

;

a meander.

crop or craw.

There fall thofefaphire-colour'd brooks.

Which, conduit-like, with cutious croiks.
Sweet iflands make in that fweet land.

S/</«5».

To Crook, v. a. [crocher, French.]
hook.
I, To bend ; to turn into a
It is

highly probable, that this difeafe proceeds

from a redundant acidity, becaufe vinegar will
y1rtutbm,t on Diet.
foften and crcok tender bones.
pervert from reftitude ; to divert
e.

To

from the original end.

To Crook,

adj. \crop iinA full.]
Satiated ; with a full belly.
He, ftretch'd out all the chimney's length.

Balks at the (ire his hairy ftrength ;
And, ercb-full, out of door be flings
Ere the firfl cock bis matin rings.

-v.

n.

To be bent

;

to have a

Milton.

Cro'psick. adj. [crop iXiAfck.] Sick with
repletion ; fick with excefs and debauchery.
where crcf-Jkk drunkards muit
Strange odds
engage
bungiy foe, and arm'd with fober rage.
I

B""-"-

(late.

tiay.

But fluttering there, they nellle near the throne.
And lodge in habitations not their own.
By their high crofs and corny g laards known. Dr.

Cro'pfvtll.

A

Tate's Juvenal.

curvature.
Their (hoes and pattens are fnouted and piked
more than a (inger long, crooking upwards. Camiltn.
Cro'okback. ti. f. [crook &TiA hack.'\
term of reproach for a man that has

A

gibbous (houlders.

Fair-hanJed Spring unbofoms every grace.
Throws out the fnow-drop andthccrKui firft.

Croo'kedly. ad'v. [from froeW,]
1. Not in a ftraight line.

ing.
So when the Scots, yourconftantfr!»irt,

Whatfocver affairs pafs fuch a man's hands, he

Trevoux.

We

An old ac-

needs
erookctb them to bis own ends ; which muft
be often ecccntrick to the ends of his maflcr or

It always remains little.

Sbakefjieare'l Henry VI.
were not born er'^oked ; we learned thofe
windings and turnings of the fcrpent.
South*

2.

over the top of an horfe's hoof.

Grant'tllt*

back.

They have corrupted themfclvcs : they are a
Deut. axxii. 5*
perveric and rrooJc^ generation.
Hence, heap of wrath ; foul, indigeited lump !

luffcr.

Creeodile is alfo a little animal, otherwife calkd
ftlni, very much like the lizard, or fmall croccdi/e,

Jt lives by land and water ; has four Jhort finall
legs, a very (harp muezle, and a (hort fmall tail.
It is pretty enough to look at, being covered all
over with little fcales of the colour of filvcr, intermixt with brown, and of a gold colour upon t'.ie

TbmiJ. Summer.
The glow-worm lights his gem.
Perverfe ; untoward ; without reflitude
of mind ; given to obliquity of condoft.

Sbaktjfecre'i Watir't Tale.
The front being in bed with him on the wedding

[a cant word.]

H^ood-ward' i Natural Hiji,

in, if he thinks that he is in the right way, wherever he has the footfttps of others tofoUuw. Locke.
Among the crooked \3nts, on every hedge.

Fie(h herrings plenty Michel brings,

Cro'net. ti. /.

own rcAiiude <s of tJie ob>

Winding ; oblique ; anfraduous.
A man (hall never want cracked paths to walk

2.

3.

With farted crona, and fuch old things.
2. In contempt, an old woman.
Take up the ballard,
Take 't up, I fay ; give 't to thy crone.

and iiiXwt, fearing.] An amphibious vo-

Beguiles him ; as the mournful crocodiU

as well an index of its

An old ewe.

CRO'CODILE. «./ [fromx5o«®-,fafFron,

refembling goofe-eggs, fometimes ainounting to fixty, near the water-fide,
covering them with the fand, that the
heat of the fun may hatch them. Calmct.

Nrwi. Ofiicks.
pipes, as throujjb ftraight ones.
.Mathematicians fay of a ftraight line, that it i«

[cpone. Sax. according to
krtrAe, Dutch, according to

Cro'n Y. n./.

racious animal, in fhape refembling a
lizard, and found in Egypt and the Indies. It is covered with very hard fcales,
which cannot, without great difficulty,
be pierced ; except under the belly,
where the fkin is tender. It has a wide
throat, with feveral rows of teeth, fharp
and feparated, which enter one another.
It runs with great fwiftnefs ; but does
not eafily turn itfelf. It is long lived,
and is faid to grow continually. to its
Some are fifteen or eighteen
death.
Crocodiles lay their eggs,
cubits long.

A bell or a cannon may be heaid beyond a bill
which intercepts the fight of the founding body;
and founds arc propagated as readily through craied

liquity of a crooked ont.

Soldiers who fight againil infidels under
the banner of the crofs.

inftruftcd,

when all their whole time and pains is laid out to
Loike.
ftill the cnalhg of their own bellies.
Croak. «. /. [from the verb.] The cry
or voice of a frog or raven.

[crocher, French.]

Bent; not llraight ; curved.

1.

Cao'isE.s. n.f.
1. Pilgrims who carry a crofs.
2.

Locke

Croo'ked. adj.

Sfe that he take the name of Urban, becaufc
a rope of that name did (irft infiitute the croijado ;
and, as with an holy trumpet, did ftirup the voyBtecH,
age for the Holy Land.

Drydtn.

blow,

wu cmkbaektd or

no.

under the banner of the croft.

coming

prefag'd the

wbetlier our king Richard III.

CtiOV..n.f. [cpoppa, Saxon.]
The higheft part or end of any thing ;
1
as the head of a tree, the ear of corn.
2. The harveft ; the corn gathered oS a
field ; the produft of the field.
.

And this of all my harveft hope 1 have.

Aye, crookhack, here I (land to anfwer thee,

Or any he the proudeft of ihy fort. Hbjk. Hen. VI.
Cro'okbacked. adj. Having bent IhouU
ders.
A dwarf as well may for a giant pafs,
As ncgroe for a fwan ; a crookleck'd lafs
Dryden > Juvenal.
Be call'd Europj.
There are millions of truths that a man is

not,

or raaj' not think Iiiaifclf, contcreed toknuw j

as.

Nought reaped but a weedy crof of care.
Sfenftr's Pa/lorals.

LabMngthefoil, and reaping plenteous cr^,'
Milton's Paradife Lsji.
Corn, wine, and oil.
The fountain which from Helicon proceeds,
Thatfacred (tream, (hould never water weeds,
Nor inaicc the crop of thorns aad tbilUcs grow.

Rojcommon.

Nothing

love of. your Saviour, who oiFered himfelf for you
as a facrifice upon the crofs.
Taylor's Guide to the Penitent.

The enfign of the Chriftian religion.

2.

Her holy faith and Chriliian crofi opfos'd
Ro^ue.
Againft the Saxon gods.

Drydcn's FaL'ts.

To Crop. v. a. [from the noun.]
to

;

Cropp'd are the flower-de-luces in your arms;
Of England's coat, one half is cut awjy.
SbjUeffejre's Henry VI.

He, upon whofe fids

The fewcft rofes are crcpfd t'rom the tree.
Shall yield the other ia tnt right opinion.
ShAcffcare' s Hmry
All the budding honours on thy crelt

VL

She doth ftray about

make a garland for my head.

I'll crop, to

tience.
Wilhing unto me many croff'es and mifchances in
Sidney.
my love, whcnfoever I Ihoold love.

Stakeffearc'i Henry IV".
I will crop off from the top ot'his young twigs a
tender one, and will plant it upon an high mounExekiel, xvii. 22.
tain.
There are fome tears of trees, which are combed
from the beards of goato ; for when the goats bite
and crop them, efpecially in the mornings^ the dew

Then let us teach our trial patience,
Shakcfpeaie.
Becaufe it is a cultomary crois,
Heaven prepares goi'd men with erodes ; but no
ill can happen to a good man. Ben yonjm's Dtfco^.
A great eilate hath great crojj'a, and a mean
fortune hath but fmall ones.
Tiiyhr's Rale rfLiviig Ifoly.

being on, the tear comcth forth, and hangeth upon
Bacon's Natural Hijiory.

their beards.

No more, my goats, (hall 1 behold you climb

While force our youth, like fruits, untimely cropi,
Venhanu
Death deftroys
Tl)e parent's hopes, and crops the growing bays.

To yield harveft.
!

Cro'pper. n.f. [from fjo/.]

A kind of

but only in the church lands lying within the
fame, which were called the crofs ; wlicrein the
king made a Iherilf; fo in each of ihel'e counties
palatines there was one Iherifi' of tiic liberty, and
Sir y. Davies.
another of the crofs.

Cro'sier. It. f. \cro'ifcr, Fr. from crcix,.a

The paftoral ftaft' of a biihop,

which has a crols upon it.

Cross. etc/J. [from the fubftantive.]

[creijiiet,

Dryden,

either

Spenjer,

Dryden's AEncid.

2.

advance

towards one

anotlier

That what by breaking them 't had gain'd,

By their fupport might be malntain'd. Hudiiras,
The loxia, or crofs-bill, whofe bill is thick and
(Irong, with the tips crofjingow another, with great
rca.iin:fs breaks open (ir-cones, apples, and other
fruit, to come at their kernels ; as if the croffmg
of the bill was defigned for this lirvice,

•''•'

^

,

3.

A

crriijis
.

2.

crofs,

,.

;

One mull be happy by the other's lofs.

Refort to farmers rich, and blefs their halls,
And cxercifc the beds, and crti/i the walls. Dryien,

Crofi to our intcrefls, curbing fcnfc

over another ; the inftrument by which
the Saviour of the world fuffered death.
They make a iittle crofs ot a quill, longways ot

.

Dryden.

and fin ;

that part of the quill which ha:h the pith, and

without, and undermin'd within,
Drydiv.
through pain.
It riins crofs to the belief and apprehenfion ot
the reft of mankind ; a difficulty which a moil«4

croiiiwayt of that piece cf the quill without pith.

and good man is fcarceablc to encounter,

Opprt-I's'd

It thrives

4.

Ferverfe ; un tradable.

yltterli.

Watts.

and confounds her former track.

Tofign with the crofs.
Friara

Adverfe ; oppofue : often with to.-

We 're both love's captives; but 'Viih fate fo

One ftraight body laid at right angles

Derham's fbyfico-Tbeokgy'.

I fhall'mblt carefully obfervc, not to cnfs over
or dcfjc* the copy of your papers for tire I'uturc,
Pope,
and only to mark in the margin.
hunted hare treiids back her mazes, and

In the m-'ft terrible and nimble llroke
Of quick crofs lightning? Hhakefpearc's Kinglear.

[croix, Fr. crece, Ital. crux,

Bactn's Natural Hiliory,

This forc'd the (iubborn'ft, for the caufe.

To crofrtht cu'-'gels to the laws

dlrta

in

line,

athwart another.

Oblique; lateral.
Was this a (acfj
To (land againd the deep dread-bolted thunder.

Latin.]
1.

L'Efirange,

To Cross, •t'. a. [from the noun.]
1. To lay one body, or draw one

lines, or meet in the iuterfc^tlon of crofs ones.

With filver plated, and with dudile gold.

CROSS, n,/.

A fox was taking a walk one night rrofj a village.

contrary motion cailward, will be advanced near
a dcgrte ot the ecliptick, craft to the motion of
Holder en Time.
the equator.
The ihips muS neeJs encounter, wlwn they

Then Una 'gan to afli, if aught he knew.
Or heard abroad, of that her'champion true,
Here an unfiniih'd diamond crojlei l.iy,
To which fou lovers adoration pay.
Cay's Fan,
2, It feems to be printed in the following
palTage, by miftake, for corj'eht.
The crojlet fome, and fome the cui/hes mould.

Dryden's Fables,

Over; from fide to fide.

2.

The lun, in that fpatc of time, by his annual

French.]

That in his armour bare a crojkt red,

Knolles.
could not poflibly pafs that way.
Betwixt the midft and thcfe, the gods aflign'd
Two habitable feats of human kind ;
And erofs their limits cut a Doping way,
Which the twelve figns in beauteous order fway.
Dryden's Virgil.
Crofs his back, as in triumphant fcorn.
The hope and pillar of the houfe was born.

Whatfoever penumbra Ihould be made in the
of tJie fecond ptifm,
that penumbra would be confpicuous in the light
Newton.
lines which touch thofe circles.

A fmall croTs.

1

The enemy had, in the woods before them, cut
down great trees crofs the ways, fo that their horfc

circles by tlie crfs lefradkion

Horwel'i England's Tears,

fo as to interfeft any thing

tianfverfely.

elfe.

Her front ereS with majefty (he bore,

The crofer wielded, and the mitre wore.

Tranfverte ; falling athwart fomething

1.

moin try it with the Icing's fword.
Bacon,
Grievances there were, I mud confcfs, and fome
incongruities in my civil gr>vernraeriti wherein fome
fay the rr^rr, fome fay the dillaff, was too bufy.

Athwart ;

1

fo as the king's writ did nut run in thufe co intics,

there be cropperi, c.irriers, runts, lyalton's Angler,

Wlicn prelates arc great, there is alfo danger
from them ; as in the times of Anfelmus and
Thom.is Beclcet, who, with their crtfiers, did al-

Cross, prep,

The abfolute palatines made their own judges,

There be lame and wild pigeons; and »f tjmc

Sidney.

and the
archduke's daughter ; and again, between the archduke's fon and the king's daughter.
Bacon's Henry Wl.
Crofs marriages, between the king's fon

Church lands in Ireland.

8.

pigeon with a large crop.

Pile,

and (hortly left her with child of the

famous Pyrocles.

Whacum had neither crofs nor pile;
His plunder was not worth the whilir.
llud^bras.
1 his I humbly conceive to be perfeA biys play ;
crifs, I win, ind pile, yau lofe; or, what's yojr's
is mine, and what's mine is my own.
Hwfi.

Royal wench
She made great Cxfar Uy his fword to-bed;
He plough'd her, and (he cropt. Sbak, Ant.S^CUeft

Interchanged.
Evarchus made a crofs marriage alfo with Dorilaus's filler,

upward, or the other.

Creech.

Cro'slet. n.f.

and unlucky ilfue ofmydefign; for, by my diftike
Clanvilk*

ofdifputes, I am engaged in one.

Dryden.

a play with money ;
at which it is put to chance whether
the fide, which bears a crofs, Ihall lie

and

unfortunate.

a contented, but alfo a thankful, acquiefcence in
any condition, and under the crojjefi and feverelfc
South,
palTages of Providence.
I cannot, without fome regret, behold the crofs

Who neither carried back nor brought one crofs.
7. Cra/s

;

Wc learn the great reafonablenefs of not only

Hnuel's Vocal Forif}.
them falary.
Whereas we cannot much lament our lofs.

Mii'lon.

Contrary to wifh

7.

the very earth to follow him, though he had not a

Age, like ripe appks, on earth's boforo drops

crofs.]

tradiftions, that feemcd to lie crofs and uncouth,
South*
and to make the whole unintelligible.

crofs to pay

Sweet of thyfelf, but much more fweet thus cnpp'd.

To CtL.of, V. ti.

;

cohere* with, and depends upon, another; and ft*
clears off ail the appearing contrarieties and con-

He was faid to make foldiers fpring up out of

To gather before it falls.
O fruit divine

Contrary; contradiflory.
The mind brings all the ends of a long and
fees how one part
various hypothefis together

8.

a crofs.

Dryden's VirgU.

2,

Tillotfon.

6.

Money, fo called becaufe marked with

6.

The fteepy cliffj, or crop the fiow'ry thyme

,

becaufe he had received a cr/fs anfvver from his
Taylor.
miftrefs?
All crofs and diftafteful humours, and whatever
elfe may render the converfation of men grievous
and uneafy to one another, mull be ihunned.

excite devotion, fuch as were anciently
fet in market-places.

By holy crofjes, where Ihe kneels and prays. Shak.
4. A line drawn through another.
5. Any thing that thwarts or obftrufts ;
misfortune ; hindrance ; vcvation ; oppofition ; miladventure ; trial of pa-

Peevilh; fretful; ill-humoured.
Did ever any man upon the rack sffliift himfelf,

J.

A monument with a crofs upon it to

3.

;

;

inconvenience, then religion bids him quit it.
South*

V

Guilclcfs ot fteel, and from the razor free.
It falls a plenteous fnl^fcfsrv'd for thee.

To cut off the ends of any thing
mow to reap to iop.

Wlicn, through the crofs ciravr^ftances of a
man's temper or condition, the enjoyment of a
pleifurc would certainly expife him to a greater

You are firft to confider ferijufly the infinite

Nothing is more prejudicial to your ««/> than
Mortimer's Hujhtndry.
mowing of it too foon.
3. Any thing cut oiF.

1.

C R

C R O

C R O

3.

4.

To cancel as, to crofs an article.
To pals over.
:

He conquered this, proud Turk as far as the Hc!made a vifit to the
Temple.
Greek cn7periir at Conltantinoplc.
lefponr, which he croffrd, and

Wc found tht; hero, lorwhtie only fake
and crofs'd the bitter
Wc fought the dark
^b'oJ.-'s,

Dryden.

lake.

3

L 2

5.

Ta

thwart

;

rr anot in oppofition j not in the

fame line.
Mora grecJy thry of news,

fall

Prior.

and hs^.'] A
weapon, formed by placing a

Cro'sS-bOW.
millive

towards him do

n.

/

CJentlemen fiifter their bcafti to run wild in their

to interpofe obftruAion ;
to embarrafs ; to obllruft ; 10 hinder
to counteraft.
;

wouJ> and wallc groimJ, wheic ihi) arc hunted and
killed with cioft-lovit and pieces, in the manner ot

^

Jeer.

Still do I crofi this wretch, whatfo he t.ikcth in

Daniel.
Thu.- to be cnft'J in what he did intend.
He wus fo grejt an enemy to Ui|jl>y and Colepeper, who were only prcfeat in debaies of the war
with the officers, that he cr^iJ «ll they propofed.
Clarend'jtt*

Buried in private, and fo fud.ienly I
Ucrojjii my defign, wliieh » i^ t' allow
Dryitcn,
TTie rites, of funeral futing hi^ dc^iee.
&«-cil d with our 1 1« fuccellcs on the foe.

Which Kriite aild Hnlland wanted pow'r to craft.
Diydrv.

firm patriot there,
Though dill hy faili"n, vice, and fortune fro/7.
Shall find the ^ner*i^ Ijljourwaj not loft.
'i'lic

Stalejfiare.

;

forcible whether difchargcd by a giant or a dwarf.

rujfcr.

Cro'tchet. »./. [crochet, French.]
One of the notes or cha1. [In mufick.]

The French aiVilUd thcmfclvcs by land with the

rafkcrs of time, equal to half a minim,

Genoa againft the Engliih.

croftl'ov/crs of

Nil gwemour is fufterej to go 00 with any one
courfe, but upon the Icaft infonnation he is either
flopped and crojjid, or other courfcs appointed him
It

IrehnJ.

may make my cafe dangerous, to croj! this in
Shakcjfeare'i Meajurifar Mtajun.

tlie fmalleft.

To contradidl.

9.

In all this there is not a fyllable which any ways
i^M*';criffttb us.
.
_
received opiIt is certain, howfocver it craft the

Cro'sscrained. adj. [cro/s indgrain.]
1. Having the fibres uanfverfe or irreguIf the ftuS" proves crofgrainrd in any part of
to plane
its length, then you mijft turn your ftuff
it the contrary wsy, fo far as it runs croffgrjined.

To debar; to preclude.

We

find in fuUcn writs,
And croft grain' J works of modern wits.

She W.1S none of your crcfi-gralnal, termagant,
fc ilding jadei, that ono had as good be barged as
Maiknot'i Join Bull.
live in the houfe with.
But wifdom, peevifh and cr-^ft- grain d,
Prior.

L'Eflrar.ge.

Muft be oppos'd, to be fuftain'd.

To Crouch. T. ». [crochu, crooked, Fr.]
Cro'ssly. (lil'v. [from cro/s.']
To ftoop low ; to lie clofe to the ground ;
fomething
interfeft
J
to
;
fo
as
Athwart
1
.

Oppofitely ; adverfely ; in oppofition to.

2.

1.

Sidney.

A round fhot,

or great bullet, with a bar of iron put
Harrii.
through it.
To Cross-examine, v. a. [crc/s a.nd exaTo try the faith of evidence by
mine.]
captious queftions of the contrary party.
If we may but crofs-examim and interrogate tlieir
aftions againll tiieir words, thefc will foon confefs
the invalidity of their folcrancft confefiions.

Dicay of Piay.

The judges (hall, as they think fit, interrogate
SpcUatr-r.

or ctift-cxamnt the witnefl'es.

Cro's5-st AFF. «./. [from croft andpif.]
An inftrumentcommonly called the foremeriftalT, ufed by fearaen to take the
dian altitude of the fun or ft.ars.

&nd

Harris.

A

iite.]

deception; a cheat.
The fox, tha; trufte to his aJdrefs and manage, without fo much as dreaming of a croft-bite
1

from

fo filly

an animal,

fell himfcJf inta the pit

digged for another.

L'Efirange.

To Csto'ss-BiTE. V. a. [from the noun.!]
To contravene by deception.
.

,

>.

No rhetorick muft be fpetit againft croft-iitiig'i
evidence, and frighting lii.1i out of h's

country
'l^aftst

is

To

UVi*.

meanly.
Kvery one that is left in thine houfe, (hall come
and criMtb to him for a piece of filvcr and a morfel
i Sam. ii. 36.
of bread.

wife for a moment, but a fool for

2.

At his heel ;,

Unfortunately.

Cro'ssness.

Men's adions do not always croft with reafon.

tS.jt he had

as, the lion crouches to his mailer.
fawn; to bend fervilely ; to ftoop

2.

ever ; and ails as untowardly and crofily to the rca
liJUiJin.
fon of things, as can be imagined.
3.

To lie athwart another thing.
2, To be inconfiftent.

[cro/s

4.

VEfirangu

woman, is incurable.

for eternitv,

1.

n. /.

A ftatcl; temple (hoots within the Ikies,

He that provides fir this life, but takes no care

To Cross, 'v. n.

Daviei.

a piece of wood fitted into
another to fupport a building, [from
crock, a fork.]
;

are included [thus.]
A perverfe conceit ; an odd fancy.
All the devices and cntchtti of new inventions,
which crept into her, tended either to twitch or
Hnuel,
enlarge the ivy.
The horfe fmelt him out, and prefently a crotchet
came in his head how he might countermine him.

The fpirit of contradiilion, in a crojs-grainid

Sbiikeffeerc.

Cro'ss-bite.

A fupport

The croiikcii of their cot in columns rife. DryJ.
Hooks in which words
3. [In printing.]

lludiirat.

The wonder of tlie ignorant.

From his loins no hopeful branch fliall fpring.
To croft me from the golden time I look for.

CrPSs-bar-shot. ». /.

2.

elfe.

Ba.int Natural Ujjioty.

.'

All his old crotrbcti in his brain he bear's.
But on his harp plays ill, or rot at all.

Moxon,

Perverfe ; troublefome ; vexatious.

2.

nion, that founds may be created without air.
I Q.

Chambers,
and double a quaver.
Asa good harper, ftricken far in years.
Into wh ifc cunning hands the gout duth fall.

Ral.igh'tEfayi.

by autho-

SpirtJ:r on

plough.

Save (lep for a (tile of the crtlcb and the bough.

lar.

LwU.

Bacon s Henry VII.
and for

tree for cart

Ji>,y/f.

«.

A fliooter with a crofs-bow.

rity; to countermand.

from hence.

Save cime, a.*, and crab

/ [from cro/t-lonv.]

Cro'ss-eower.

Tiien their n'.lis clarti with their underllandings,

To

There is a tradition of a dilemma that Moreton ufed to taifc the benevolence to higher rates ;
and fome called it his fork, and fome his crotch.

gument is like the A«t of llie crift-toiu, equ-illj

to be inconfulent with.

and their appetites cnfi their duty.
contravene; to hinder
8.

fork.

Teflimony is like the Ihit of a long bow, which
owes its efficacy to the force of the (hooter ; ar-

Adii'fjni Cit^a.

Not to concur

Crotch. «./. [ow, French.] Ahookor

The«>ailer of therro/iiowi, lord Rambures.

The king no longer could endiiT

We urge an unfeeii ti<:e.

It liJth loft leaves, like the ladies bcdftraw, from

wh.c!i it diSers in the number of leaves that are
produced at every joint; which in this are only
Miller.
four, difpofed in form of a crolV.

Came ofCormuail.

ifwAw.

hand.

Cro'sswort. »./. [from crc/s and<u'o;7.]

[croj's

bow athwart a Aock.

Sp/iifir.

crofs.

To thwart

-.

That in cr'JTivayi and floods have burial.
Already to their wormy beds are gone. Slahffejre.

For fomc hy-cnds, to trft-kiii wit.

But he: them fpying, 'gai) to torn jfiJr,
For tear, as feem'J, ur for fume fcineil l.-l's

6.

Damn'd fpirits all.

That many knotty points there are,
Which all dilicuf:, but few can dear;
A* niiturc (lily had thought fii,

To move laterally, obliixucly,

5.

C R O

C R O

C R O

».,/.

Lealht in like hounds, (hould famine, fword, and

[from cro/s.]

fire.

Tranfverfenefs ; interfedion.
Perverfenefs ; peevilhnefs.

Sbaieffeare' 1 Henry V.
They fawn and crouch to men of parts, whom
they cannot ruin quote them, when they are prefent ; and, when they arc abfent, fteal their jefts.

Crouch for employment.

The lighter fort of malignity turneth but to a
croffntfs or aptnefs to

1 deny nothing,

fit

Bacon.

Drydin,

to be granted, out of crj^nr/i

or humour.

Who

;

oppofe ; but the deeper fort,

to envy, or mere mifchietV

Too well the vigour of that arm they know

Kir.gCharla.

of a poor captive (hould ever have had the power
VEfir,
to make Haman's feat fo uneafy to him ?
They help us to forget the crojntft of men and
things, compole cur cares and our paliions, and
lay our difappointments allecp.
Co//i>r of tie Entertainment ofB^ois.

Cro'ssrow. «./. [ere/} and roiv.] Alphabet ; fo named becaufe a crofs is plac-

Dryien.

CROUP. «./. [croupe, French.]
The rump of a fowl.
The buttocks of a horfe.
Croupa'ues. »./ [from o-c«/.] Higher
1.

2.

leaps than thofe of corvets, that keep
the fore and hind quarters of' the horfe

ed at the beginning, to Ihew that the
end of learning is piety.
He hearkens after prophecies and dreams.
And from the crojlrw plucks the letter G ;
And fays a wizard told him, that by G
His iflue difinherited (hould be. Hbak. RictarJ III.

CRO'sswiNU.a./ [crc/s And iviae/.] Wind
blowing from the right or left.
The leaft unhappy perlons do, in fo fickle and
fo tcmpcftuous a fea as this world,

meet with many

more either cnjjkuitdi or ftormy gulls than profpcrous gales.

r'^'-'ti"
Cro'ssway.» /. [frff/jand-.w/7V.] A Imall
chief
road.
the
interfering
path
obfcure

j

They lick the duft, and crouch beneath their fatal
Dry den.
foe.
Your (hamrful (lory (hall record of me.
free.
woman
The men all iroucFd, and left a

wmld have imagined that the ftirt crojjncjt

in an equal height, fo that he trufles his

legs under his belly without yerking.
Farrier''! Diff.

CROW. «./. [cpape, Saxon; corvus, Lat.]
1

.

A large black bird that feeds upon the
carcaffes of bealb.
The cntat and choughs, that wing the midway
a r.

Shew fcarce fo grofs as bettles.

Shah. King l,ear.

•To triwt he like impartial grace affords,
And cho»ghs and daws, and fuch rcpublick birds.
*

Dryden,

i.T$

C R O
To pluck aQuow,

i.

is

C R O

to be indullrious

Behold if fortune or a miftrefs frowns.
Some plunge in bufinefs, others (have their crctvni.
!

The time miforder'd, doth in common fcr.fe

or contentious about that which is of no
value.
It you difpute, we *uft even fluck a crvw about

and crufli Uj to this monfti^us form,
Shjkejpearis Henry IV.
It I'ccms probable that the fea doth ilill grow
narrower from.age :o age, and fmks more within
its channel .ind the bowchof the earth, according
as it can make its wjy Into all thole fubterrancous
cjvitics, and cm-a/d the air out of them.
Cr'.--u'J us

To hold our fafcty up.

L'EJSmnge.

it.

C R O

To prefs clofe together,

Z.

Refolve, before we go,
That you and 1 mMi\ pull a croiv,
Hudihras.
piece of iron, with a beak, ufed as a
3.
Jever to force open doors ; as the La/ini

A

Pope.

tain.
Ifpon the cro-rvn o' th' clift", what thing was that

Which parted from you ? Shakefpcare's King Lear.
Huge trunks of trees, fell'd from the fteepy crovin

Of the bare mountains, roll with ruin down.

Burnet's Thicry.

called a hook cor^'us.
The cmiu is \i',<ti a? a lever to lift up the ends

As

the

mind

is thought to take up no
fcem to require no time ; but
many of them fcem to be cretvded into an inftant.

Drydeni JEneidt

itfelf

fpice, fo its aOions

of great heavy timber, and then they thruft the
claws between the ground and the timber j and
laying fjme ftult behind the cr<tv>, they draw the
other end of the fhank baclcwards, and fo ralfe the

This little interval, this paufe of life.

tioiber.

With all the virtues we can crmid into it.

Part of the hat that covers the head.

7.

once opened a remarkable atheroma : it was
about as big as the cnton of a man's hat, and lay
underneath the peroral mufcle. Sharp's Surgery.
I

Locke,

Then let ns fill

Moxi/it^s Mi'cbanical Exenifrs.

Get me an iron crvw^ and bring it ftraight
Unto my cell.
Staktfpcarc'iRcmaand 'Ju'.Ut.

A piece of money, anciently ttamped

8.

with a crown ; five Ihillings.
Truft not to your fervants, who may mifinform
you, by which they may perhaps gain a few cr;ivns.

Mdifon't Cato.

To incumber by multitudes.

3.

Againft the gate employ your crvwt of iron.

The top of any thing, as of a moun-

6.

How (hort is life Why will vain courtiers toil,

Bacor,

!

Southern,

But he that can eat beef, and feed on bread
which is fo brown.
May fatisfy his appetite, and owe no man a cn^un.

And rrowrf a vainer monarch for a fmile ?

4. [From 7"a frciv.] The voice of a cock,
or the noife which he makes in his

GranviUe,

To
4. '/o

gaiety.

Crowd Sail,
Sail.

To

[a fea phrafe.]

Sucklings

fpread wide the fails upon the yards.

An ounce of filver, whether in pence, groats,
or croTOB-pieces, (Vivcrs or ducatoons, or in bullion,

Cro'wfoot. «. f. [from crc^w and foot ; To Crowd, t;. ».
in Latin, ranunculus.^

A flower,

I

.

Cro'wfoot. n, /. [from croTJU and /«o/.]

To fwarm ; to be numerous and con

A

Crswi/ through their gates;

ufed in
moding the cavalry.

T'o

It

is

war

for

z.

1 .

[cpapan, Saxon.]
To make the noife which a cock makes

in gaiety or defiance.
But even then the morning cock rrnvloud.
Sbahijpeare'i Hamlit.

Cro'wdbr. »./ [from rrowd".] A fiddler.
Chevy. chafe fung by a blind cmivdir,

That the lion trembles at the crewhg of the
cock, king James, upon trial, found to be fabu-

CROWN. ». f. [couronne, Fr. krotnt, Dut.

.

I.

is

in

my heart, not on my head

My crnon is call'd content
A crovin is that feMom kings enjoy.

He went not with the cr(mid to fee a (hrine,

A ficfdie.

God's fons; and to inherit kingdoms, and to hope
for cmvns, and thrones, and fceptres, as it is to fit

down with him as his guefts ?
2.
garland.

Receive a crovin for thy well ordering of the feaft.

That Will igrce withouten breach or jar.
4.

His fiddle is your prnprr furcliafe.
5.

5.

To complete

R common.
'J

to perfei't.

;

The lading and

cro'rc'ii?:^

6.

To terminate

is

privilege,

corllancy.

or rather

South.

to finilh.
All thefe a milk-white honeycomb furrouni.
;

Cro'wnciass. n.f. The fineft fort of win-

Locke.

Dryd.;,.

dow-glafs.

The top of the head, In a contemptuous Cro'wnpost. n.f.

buildings, Hands upright in the
middle, between two principal rafters.

A mind which is ever crrwd ng its memory with

Shakefpiarc' 1 Tcmpefl.
Wliile his head was working upon this thou<^Ki,
the toy took him in the crovin to fend for the fong-

Make us ftrange ftuff.

ftcr.

A port, which, ia

forae

fenfe.
If he awake.

Ifait,.

VVge your fjccefs ; deferve a lall'ng name
;
She'll crovin a giiiitful and a conftant flamr.

Regal power ; royalty.
The fuccelTion of a croivn in fevcral countries

From toctOfr«wn he'll fill our (kins with p'nche?.

may cramp tht invention

to recompenfc.

property, of friendfiiip,

To fill with confufed multitudes.
learns,

;

Which in the midrt the countrv banquet cromn'd.

places it on difTcrent heads.
;

To reward

an incorruptible.
iCor.ix.zc.
Let merit cmvm, and juftice laurels give.
But lee me happy by your pity live. Dryd. Epifl.

To Crowd, a;, a. [from the noun.]

it

Pfalm viii. 5.

many days (hall fee her,

;

ShaUfpiiire.
\.

Reward ; honorary diftindion.
They do it to obtain a corruptible cr'-tvn, but wc

Their merry mufick that refoundi from far.

HuJibrat,

to make illuftri-

And yet no day without a deed to cnnn it.

Ecdus.

The pipe, the ubor, and the trembling cnud,

To be, or be no mt.re, a ircw.l,

;

She fliall be, to the happlncfs of England,

An aged princefs

Kettlciuell.

A

3.

fifer/tr's Efitb.

To dignify; to adorn

Thou hart made him a little lower than the
angels, and haft crowned him with glory and ho-

SEakefpeare's Henry VI.

Hark how the minftrelj 'gin to (hrill aloud

things which

3.

Is it not as great a prefumption in us to become

But fed us by tlie way with food Jivinc.
Dndtn't Fai/ct,

»«<«"•

And peaceful olives cronvn'd his hoary he.id.

no^f-

And fet the triple cnvin upon his head.

And by your doom mud be jllo v'd

Her who faireH d<ies appear,
Crtwnher queen of all the year.
Dtydcn,
2. To cover, as with a crown.
Umbrn,the priefts, the proud Marrabians led.

would the college of the cardinals

or diftin£tion.

p„^,.

mean your voice iuc cr.ivning of the king.

ous.

Would chufe him pope, and carry him to Rome,

Won in the fcrvice of the ctmrches

1

Dryden's JEmid.

A promifcuous medley, without order

.

William lord Hallin^s had pronounc'd your part;

Shakefpeare's Tenpejl.

He could then compare the cinfufion of a multitude to that tumult he had obfcrvcd in the lea.
rian fea, djliing and breaking among its crowd of

impe-

nament.
Had you not come upon your cue, my lord,

And o» this couple drop ablcfled croivn.
I

[corona

A plant.

Lat.]
<i/.

1.

Look down, you gods.

The vulgar; the populace.

accompliftiment.

Crown.
a. [from the noun.]
To inveft with the crown or regal or-

'To

:

Sbakcjpeare's Henry VI.

A multitude confufedly prefled toge-

[Fromrrw//^, Welfh.]

rialis,

it

ther.

I.

of the head which de-

If thou be a king, where is thy cnion ?—

—My critiin

CROWD. «./. [cpuS, Saxon.]

ex-

Shakefpcare's Richard III.

The ornament

notes imperial and regal dignity.

SeJby is cmu'ing, and, though always defeated
by his wife, ftill crrwing on.
Cand'ifon.

iflands.

;

corona, Lat.]

to fwagger.

bluller ;

Completion

Crown-imperial, n. f.

Skakejpeare.

HakewUl.

_

Within this homeftead liv'd, without a peer
For cr^tving loud, the noble Chanticleer,
So hight her cock.
Dryden's Fabtit.
2. To boaft ; to bully ; to vapour;
to

4.

A

fcarecrow.
That fellow handles bis bow like a cnukeeper.

_

3.

Sidney.

Cro'wkeeper. »./ [eroiu and ieefi.]

Diogenes called an ill phyfician, cock. Why ?
Diogenes anfwered, Becaufe when you
(Tvw, men ufe to rife.
Baccts.

1""».,

2.

10.

Ccnuley's Dat'idtis.

faith he.

I.

To thruft among a multitude.
A mighty man, had not fom; cvmning fin
Amidfl fo many virtues cnieded in.

eJ ; 1 have cri'wed.

decoration ;

Ecdus. XXV. 6.
Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved, and
longed for, my joy and crovin, (land fad in the
Lord.
Philip, iv. I.

Drydetl's P''lrgU,

Crow. -v. n. preterit. I cre-tu, or cro-w-

any

Locke.

Much experience is the croivn of old men.

The (hocking fquadrons meet in mortal fight.

incom-

Military Di£l.

to

cellence ; dignity.

fields of

light.

fo that, whatever way it falls, one point

up.

and, in the

of equal value

be,

Honour ; ornament ;

9.

They follow their undaunted king ;

caltrop, or piece of iron with four
points, two, three, or four inches long ;
is

and etern illy will
other ounce of filver.
is,

-

fufed.

VEflrange.

Cro'wnscab. »./. A ilinking filthy fcab,
that breeds round about the corners of
a horfe's hoof, and is a cancerous and

painful fore.

Farrier's DiS.

Crowk.

C R U.

C R U

C Tl U

If wolvei had at thy gate howl'd that ttcrn time.

adj. [crudui, Latin.]
Crows-thistle. »./ [coreita Imperial! s.] CRUDE,
Raw ; not fubdued by fire.
1
flower.
A
changed by any procefs or prepaCro'wkwheel. n. /. The upper wheel 2. Not
ration.
is
which
of a watch next the balance,
Common crude fait, barely diffolved m common

driven by it.

Cro'wnworks.

».

aqua 'fortis, will give it power of working

/ [In fortificaUon.]
to

the intoxicating quaUty of wine.

I.

to the deA juice fo crude as cannot be ripened
Natural

:

4.

r

procefs is to be called crudity and
Bac'.ti's

5.

Cro'wtoe. n./. [croiv and toe.^ A plant.
Bring the rathe primrofr that forfaken dies,
The tufted crow-tot, and pale jelTaminr. Milion.

yoCRu'ciATE. "J. a.

[frart'ff,

All the lewd legions of exploded faults.

adj. [crux din6.fero, La-

Di3.
Bearing the crofs.
Cru'cifier. n./. [from crucify.'] He that
inflifts the punilhment of crucifixion.
tin.]

•Twas

ejfitrt.

A

[crucifxuj, Latin.]
reprefentation in pifture or ftatuary of
n.f.

(lands

at the

upp;r end

crucifix, very much efteemed.

of it a large

The figure of our

Saviour reprefents him in his laft agonies of death.
yttltHf.nt'iJti'ly-

Crucifi'xion. n. f. [from crucifxus,
The punilhment of nailing to
Latin.]
Thi» earthquake, according to the opinion "f
many learned men, happenei at our Saviour'i cru-

nefs ;

Smeared with blood.
Atomical ajiorrheas

indigeftion.

Having the form of acrofs.

To CRLTCIFy. -v.

a.

[crucifgo,

Latin.]

To put to death by nailing the hands

A

Within thy reach I let the vinegar;

And fiU'd the cruet with the acid tide.
While pepper-water worms thy bait fupplied. Snip.
fmall

Cru'ise. n.f. [kruicke, DCitch.]

my cruiled blood
my hair with horrour flood.
Dryden's Mmid.

The Gelons ufe it, when, for drink and food,
mix their crudled milk with horfcs blood.

and feet to a crofs fet upright.
to themfelves

the Son of

God

Hct. vi.
afrelh, and put him tu an open fliame.
Burto the crofs he nails thy enemii s,

6.

The law that is againft thee, and the fiiu

Of all mankind, with him there crucify i. Mii'tcn.

Cruci'gerous. aJJ.

[cruciger,

Latin.]

Bearing the crofs.

CRUD. n.f. [commonly written eurJ. See
Curd.] Aconcretionof any liquid into
Jiardnefs or lliffnefs ;
2

coagulation.

They

Dryden's rirgil.

Cru'dy. adj. [from fra</.]
Concreted; coagulated.
His cruel wounds, with irudy blood congeal'd.

They bindcn up Co wifely as they may.
2. [from crude] Raw ; chill.

Sfenjcr.

Sherris fack afcends into the brain ; dries

1

CRU'EL.

adj.

[cruel,

have not a cake, but an handful of meal in a

barrel, and a little oil in a eruife.

1

Kings,

The train prepare a rruife of curious mould,

A cni'ije of fragrance, form'd of burnifti'd gold.
Pope's Odyjfey.

CRUISE, n.f. [croife, Fr. from the original cruifirs, who bore the crofs, and
voyage in
plundered only infidels.]
fearch of plunder.
To Cruise, v. n. [from the noun.] To
rove over the fea in fearch of opportunities to plunder ; to wander on the fea

A

without any certain courfe.
n.f. [hatacruifc]

me

which

there all the foolifli, dull, tnicrudy vapours
Sbakeffeare.
environ it.

A

cup.

maturity.
2. Uuripenefs; want of
TeCRu'DLE. "v.a. [a word of uncertain
etymology.] To coagulate; to congeal.

1.

cruentate

Glanville^s Seepfts,

[kruicke, Dut.] A vial for
vinegar or oil, with a llopple.

irncn.

cence of humours.
flatulency and
diet of vifcid aliment creates
Arbuthnot.
.
crerfifiw in the ftomach.

Congeal with fear ;

from the

Cru'et. n.f.

Indigeftion; inconcoftion.
They arc very temperate, whereby they prevent

1.

pals

cloih or weapon to the wound.

Cru'dity. »./. [from crude.]

Mdijm on Italy.

cif.xim.

Cru'ciforu. fl<^'. [crux znd forma, La-

They crucify

Cru'entate. adj. [cruentatus, Latin.]

I felt

a crofs.

tin.]

Dryd.n.

putrcfindigeftion and crudititt, and conlequently

our Lord's paffion.
There

There were great changes in the world by the
revolutions of empire, the cruellies of conquering,
T.mpie,
and the calamities of enflaved nations.

Cro'deness.»./. [from crudt.] Unripe-

cruVifiblc judgments were executed on Ch'iit's

lUmmond.

Ad of intentional afiliflion.

2.

:

carried by the major part to ftay.

barbarity;

The cruelty and envy of the people.
Permitted by our daftard nobles.
Have fuSer'd me by the voice of flavcs to be
Sb.tkt-f(>eare'sCuriolatlus,
Whoop'd out of Rome.

rooft.

And all good counfel is on cowards loft
The a«eftion erud/ly put, to (hun delay,

favagenefs ;

delight in the pain or mifery of others.

Rofcunmon.

without due preparation.
_
Th" advice was true; but fear had fei«'d the

Peacbam en Draiuir.g.

Inhumanity ;

1.

Cku'dzlv. adv. [homcrude.] Uoripely;

fire,

Inhu-

Shames not to be with guiltiefs blood icbVA ;
She taketh glory in her cruelncfs.
Sfe^fer,
Cru'elty. n.f. [cruaute, French.]

Abfutd cxpre(rions, crude abortive thoughts.

Take a quantity of good fiWer, and put it in a

cruel.]

But (ire more cruel, and more favage wild.

Ben Jonjon,

becaufe they were formerly

Bacon,

[from

Than either lion or the lionefs.

very crude and maimed to a ftranger,
appear
"^
Diglrf on the Saul.

marked with a crofs.

Cru'cifix.

manity ; cruelty.

What peradventure may feem full to nic,Mnay

;

Crtjci'ferous.

not fully concofted in the

To their crude hopes, and I as amply promisM.

torture; to torment ; to excruciate.

trvciHe or melting crufe, and fet them on the
well covered round about with coals.

fiery wind as gun-pvivdcr.

Cru'elness. n. f,

dole

Cru'cible. n.f. [<:r«Wi«/a/», low Latin.]
A chymift's melting pot, made of earth
fo called,

The Scotiilh arrows being (harp and (lender,
enter into a man or borCe moft cruelly, notwithftanding they are (hot forth weakly.
Sperfer on Ireland,
Brimftone and wild-fire, though they burn cruelly, and are hard to quench, yet make no fuch

Others, whom meer ambition fires, and
Of provinces abroad, which they have feign'd

To

Lat.]

Painfully ; mifchievoufly.

2.

Milton.

Crude, or intoxicate, collefting toys.

Sbarf.

favour.

inconcoaion.
Natural H:Jlory.

.
, ^ ,
Milton's PartdifeLoJI.

7. Indigelled ;
intelledl.

South,

deny him entrance, he demands
His wife, whom cruelly you hold in bands.
Dryden's AurengKebt,
Sir.ce you

6. Having indigelled notions.
Deep vers'd in books, and (hallow in himfelf.

feen the pradicc of the crucial
muft be fenfible of the falfe reafoning ufed

broken reed, that not onljr
hand that

rcfts upon it.

Not brought to perfeftion; unfinilhed ;
immature.
In a moment up they tum'd
Wide the celeftial foil and faw beneath
Conception.

Whoever has
its

He relies upon a

bafcly fails, but alfo cruelly pierces, the

Th' originals of nature, in their crude

verfe ; interfeding one another.

in

is

;

cauk.

In this thecryftals are fmall.
Woodiuard's TnJfth.
Cru'cial.<i/^'. \crux, crxa-f, Lat.] Tranf-

incifion,

roufly.

confiftcnce, it

like a right gipfy hath, at fad and loofe,
Bezuil'd me to the very he^rc of lofs.

Cryftallized

In a cruel manner ; inhumanly ; barba-

1

.

(hould convert or
too ftrong for the efficient that
firft form or
alter it, whereby it holdeth faft the
and the
is cruiU and inconcoft;

Whofe bofom was my crswr.et, my chief ena ,

Sidney,

tial ftory.

Unconcofted ; not well digefted in the
altered

mifcliievous ;

Cru'elly. adv. [from cruel]

Hiftjry.

ftomach.
While the b->dy to be converted and

!

Cro'ylstone. n.f.

ArhutbmtonAlm.

Baccn't

Bloody ;

deftruftive ; caufing pain.
Confider mine enemies ; for they are many,
and they hate me with cruel hatred. Pfalm xxv. 19.
We beheld one of the cruttieft fights between
two knights, that ever hath adorned the mod mar-

Harlh ; unripe.
gree of nouriflimcnt.

[Of things.]

2.

Boyle.

Fermented liquors have quite different qualities
taken rrirrf?, has
from the plant itfelf ; for no fruit,

bly fTtimJii:is coronat of us.
Oh, this (life foul of Egypt thi» gay charmJ
Whofc eye beck'd forth my wars, and callM them
home;
j
•

All cruel't eifc fubfcrib'd. Sbakt/feare'iKing Lear,
If thou art that cruel god, wh fc eyes
Delight in blood, and human facrilice.
Dryden's Indian Emfejvr,

upon gold.

*

Bulwarks advanced towards the field,
gain feme hill or rifing ground. Harris.
Cro'wnet. n. /. [from crrwH.]
1 . The fame with coronet.
it feems to
z. In the following paflage
probafignify chief end ; laft purpofe

.

Thou (houldft have faid, Co, porter, turn the key |

Cru'iser.

One that

roves upon the iea in fearch of plunder.
Amongft the cru'Jirs it was complnined, that

French; crudelis,

their furgeons were too aflive in amputating fracJVifiVifn.
tured members.

Latin.]
Pleafed with hurting others ; inhuman ;
I .
hard-hearted ; void of pity ; wanting
compaffion ; favage ; barbarous ; unre-

CRUM. \n.f. [cpuraa, Saxon; *rtfjOT«,
CRUMB. ) Dutch krummel, German.]
;

1.

lenting.
I

The loft '^part of bread; not the cruft.
Take

C,R U

C R U

Take of manchet about three ounces, the crvmh
only thin cut; and

be boiled in milk till it

let it

Baon.
2. Afmall particle ir fragment of bread.
More familiar grown, the table crums
Attraa his llender feet.
Thomfin's TVwter.

1.

An expedition againft the infidels.

2.

A coin ftamped with a crofs.

Mlltcn.

Crusk.

By frequent parcelling and fubdividing of inhe-

Swift.

4.

or

Dutch.]

r. Crunk.

1^. „.

a Being that is fo able to crujh all his adverfaries? a Being that can divert any misfortune

th-y

from befalling him, or turn any fuch misfortune
to his

'

yiMp,„.

ToCrvsh. -v.

,

had received fuch a blow,
that he
with his head well

had lort tiie rem, of his horfe,

Where h^ve you left the money that

I gave

Full OK tne rivals met, and

Wisur

Tm.

:

i,l'=

""

i
"^

•

-'

To be condenfed

,t.

to the faddle bent,

'0 ''« iruppe, fcnt.

Vrjdeti.

;

ly ; fnappilhly ; harlhly,

Cru'stiness. «. / [fromrrtt/y.]
1.

The quality of a cruft.

2.

Peevilhnefs; morofenefs.

Cru'sty.

ai/J. [from oa/.]
Covered with a cruft.
The e^g itftlh' defervcs our notice;

1

to

rh.)U (halt flourilh in immortal

youth,

Addijm'i Cale.

CRUST, n./. Icrttfta, Latin.]
1.

Pi.ny fliell,

or external coat, by which

any body is enveloped.
I

hive

known the ftatue of an emperor quite

hid uncicr a erufl of drofs.
2.

An incruftation

;

Addijonon Medal,.

colleftion of matter

its'

parts

within, and its rrujiy coat without, are admirably
well fitted for the bufinefs of incubation.
Derham't Phyjico-Thcclogy.
,

A

Unhutt amidft the war of elements,
1 he wreck of matter, and the crujh of worlds.

yo7?

neither V^arM
ir.deach forgot tu ward

'

Addi/on't Guardian.

>,. /.
[from the verb.]
collifion ; the aft of rulhing
together.

thit I had a Wednefday
laft

To pay the Wdler for my ^m^,- „upJ.

(hells.

come in a clofe body.

£)/^

Fr. thfe
buttocb of the horfe.] That part
of the
horfeman's furniture that reaches
from
the fadUle to the tail.

-— Oh--f.,pcnce

advantage >

To cry like a Crush.

crane.

Cru'pper. ». / [from croute,

fciitoph,,n

Afi/i.

Woodward' i Natural Hijiory,

Cru'stilv. acfv. [from era/?/.] Peevilh-

ftrength.

What can that man fear, who takes care cb

apple.

VoCrunkle.j

^

Crusta'ceousness. n.f. [from cru/a.
ceous.]
The quality 'of having jointed

pleafi:

expofing

/ A fmall degenerate

It is true that there are fome (h'elJs,
fuch as
thofe of lobfters, crabs, and others of
crujlacecus
kinds, that are very raiely found at land.

Spenfer en Ireland.

Defeating fin and death, his two main arms.

Ihaoc, and diligently fc'anncd

».

Shelly, with joints ; not teftaceous
not
;
with one continued uninterrupted fliell.
Lobfler is criiftaccum , oyfter teftaceous.

Tofubdue; to conquer' beyond refin-

Shall bruife the head of Satan, crujh his

To gatherer contrafta

_f™ ''^ys;
remple.
Crusta CEOus. adj. [from <-r«/a, Lat.]

!

This a(ft

to crufli toge.

n.

to gain a hard covering.
I contented myfelf with a plalter upon
the place'
that was burnt, which crvfied and healed
in very

Mine emulation
Hath not that honour in 't it had ; for
I thought to crij^ him in an equal
force.
True fword to fword.
Shakejpeare'i Ceriolanut.

higher
L-EJIr«\ge.

-v.

cruft ;

Shakefpeare's Richard III.

freeholder!.

.

To Crust,

They ufe them to plague their enemies, or to
opprcfs and crujh fome of their own too llubborn

When the worltmen took meafure of him, he
wa« cmmf OiouUered, and the right fide

many mufty, or very foul

and crujied bottles, let thofe be the firft you
truck
at the aiehoufc.
Sivift.

to beat down.
;
Put in their hands thy bruifing irons of wrath,
That they may crufi down, with a heavy fall,

.

Feltcn,

To foul with concretions.
If your mafler hath

ance.

the back.

c

like diamonds in the rock.

2.

Dryden't ASneiJ.

Sfenfer-i PeJI.

ac/J.
[cpump, Saxon j inm,
Dutch ; irumm, German.] Crooked in

1 .w

eJu.
darkened and eclipfed; their minds are
crujied over,,

To overwhelm

.

CRUMP.

C R u 'm p L

Addijon.
J
in
lome, who have run up to men without

cation, we may obferve many great qualities

Vain is the force of man, and heav'n's as vain,
lacrujb the pfllars which the pile fuftain.

The fat ox, that woonnt ligye !n the ftall.

all

and the banks
Addijon on Italy.
And now their legs, and breafts, and bodies flood
Crujied with bark, and hard'ning into
wood.

Sbaktjftare's Cymbeline,

Th' ufurping helmets of our adverfaries

Swift.

every wrinkle that could be made.

Dryden.

Nor is it improbable but that, in procefs ot
of it may be trujied over,

as the inands enl3rt;e thcmfelves,
clofe in upon them.

Vaft clouds encounfringoneanotherer»/Zi. fya/ler.
3.

A purfe.

.rumfleel It xnxo

_

tinie, the whole furface

When loud winds from difTrent quarters ru(h,

Cru'menal. n./. [from crumtna, Latin.]

h.spam to two or three that ftcod by himf

Why gave you me a monarch's foul.
And crujied it with bafe plebeian clay ?

Dryden's Don Sebajlitn.

His meafure fully.

For the little land that remains, provifion
it
made by the late aft againft popery, that it will

ther in complications.
Sir Roger alighted fron, hi,
horfe, and

To envelop; to cover with a hard cafe.

I.

You fpeak him fa r

If the ftone is brittle, it will often crumble,
and
pafs in the form of gravel.
Arbuihmt en Diet.
What houfe, when its materials crumble,
Muft not Inevitably tumble ?
S-w'ifi.

To draw into wrinkles ;

To Crust, v. a. [from the noun]

1 don't extend him. Sir : within himfejf
Crujh him together, rather than unfold

:

corrupted from rumpie, rompeUa,

Dryden.-

To prefs with violence.

2.

nkes,
The trambnne clods.
DryJen', Ciirgicks.
Ambition Tigh'd
(he found it vain to trufl
The faithlefs column,and the crumbling buft. Pote.

To Cru'mple. v. a. [from crumf;

crufi of bread.-

>>
....
Men
will do tricks, like dogs, fore™;?!.
VEJir.

:

To crujh my foul out.

Who fmooths with harrow, or who pounds with

»^" *= '=<^^

You '11 wilh me choak'd with every

{ccrafer, Frencli.]

Bacon.
He crufixd treafureoutof his fubjeils purfes, by
forfeitures upon penal laws.
Bacon.
Bacchus, that firft from out the purple grape
the
fweet
Crufti'd
poifon of mifufed wine. Milton.
J fought and fell like one, but death deceivd
me
I wanted weight of feeble Moors upon me.

17. a.
To fall into fmall
pieces.
There is fo hot a fummer in my brain.
That all my bowels cnimile up to dull.
Shakifftarit King John.
Nor ii the profit fmall the pcafant makei.

Soft.

a.

-v.

lent matter.

R u 'm E L E .

Ckv'mmy. ai(/. [from crum.]

A

The afs thruit herfelf unto the wall, ini cruped
Balaam's foot againft the wall. Numbeit, xxii. 25.
Cold caufes rheums and defluiions from the
head, and fome aftringent plafters crujh out puru-

the mother church ; which they can divide likewife, and tramblc as low as their will and pleafure

Is now fafl flailed in her crumenal.

A goldfmith's melting-

to fqueeze ; to force by compreffion.

Aiiirbury.

daily rrvm^/i; away.

Th' impenetrable cruji thy teeth defies,
And, petri(5ej with age, fecurcly lies. Dryd.
Jut,.walle piece of bread.
5.
Y" are liberal now; but when your turn is fped.

To prefs between two oppofue bodies;

I.

The bill leaves three hundred pounds a year to

^

AddijensSpcBator,-

4. The outer hard part of bread.

Phillips.

To CRUSH,

without any fincere regard for the public good.

Te C

:

cruji.

Pot-

taw

will difpofe of iheni.

He was never fuft'ered to go abroad, for fear of
catching cold
when he (hould have been hunting down a buck, he was
by his mother's fide,
learning how to feafon it, or put it in

See Cruise.

Cru'set. n./.

and cruinbUi, that there were few perfons of able
«fl«e»HaU'i
cf E^glavJ.
At the fame tinic we were criimklul into various
faflions and parties, all aiming at by-interefts,

Arbmhnot on Alments.

The cafe of a pie, made of meal, and
baked.

Believe me, I had rather have loft my purfe
Full ofcnjadm.
Shakeffcarcs Othello.

ritances, in procefs of time they became fo divided

.

into the lafleals.

/-co
Crusa'do.;"--^ SeeCROiSADE.

Fleih is but the glafs which holds the du!l

fcorium of metals al.
Addijon on Italy.

The vifcous cruji flops the entry of the chyle

_

3.

To Crusa'de. 1

That meafures all our time, which alio <ball
Be cramhird into dud.
Heriert.
He with his bare wand can unthread thy joints,

as we fee the

ways gathers into a folid piece.

the crural mufcles, in lions and tygers, are the
caufe of the great and habitual immorality of
thofe animals.
Arbuthm.

break into fmall pieces ; to comminute.

And {rumble all thy (ineivs.

tmucd erujl;

Belonging to the leg.
The Iharpnefs of the teeth, and the ftrength of

grow to a pulp.

To Cru'mble. II. a. [from crumb.']

C R U

Cru'ral. ttJj. [from crut, erun'j, Lit.]

2.

Sturdy ; morofe; fnappilh: a low Word.

CRUTCH, n.f. [rr»<'a«, Italrvce*^, fr.
crucke,
I

German.]

'

.

.

A fupport nfed by cripples.

.

Ah, ihus king Henry throws away his Crtitch,
Before his legs be (ma to bear his body.
Shakejpeare'i Henry VI,
Henc4, therefore, thou nice crutch 1
A fcaly gauntlet now, with joints of fteel,
Muft glove this hand.
Shakijpeare', Hcnky IV.

On tJwrft new trutcta

let.

theire learn t6 vvallp.

Dryden's Georgicks,

into a hard body.

Were

the river a confufion of never {o
many
different bodies, if they had been
all aflually diffi/lved, they would a;
leaft have

fwnj;d one con-

This fair defcfl, this helplefs aid cali'd. wife.

The bending crutch of a decrepit life.

Dryden.

Rhyme is a crutch that lifts the weak along.
Supports theftcWe, bwrct«ds the ftropg.

Smith.

7il9

^

To blame; to depreciate

1.

Poft's Mtjjuib.

Bavlus cries

To

[^(tom eruich.']

Dry den

I'll

Mtthought 1 heard a voice cry. Sleep no more
the innocent flecp.
Micbctli djtU muril;er flccp

This Ipfwich fellow's infolence.

!

To CrV out.

peat continually.
They be idle; therefore they cry, faying, Let

3.

Exodui, V. 8.

To blame

with of, agaivft,

To exclaim.

Shakeffeare.

What 's the matter.
If drefling, milVrciring, and compliment.

and dcftruftive to their fouls who did

Take up thy day, the fun himfdf will cry

To Utter lamentations.
Wc came cryirg hither

Locke.

:

Skakejpeare's King Lear.
fervants (hall fing for joy of heart

We «a»le and cry.

Behold, my
howl
but ye fliall cry for furrow of heart, and (hall
Ijaiab, Ixv. 14.
lor vexation of fpirit.
When any evil has been upon philofophers, they
eroan as pitifully, »nd cry out as loud, as other
riV/or/ix.
_

To fquall, as an infant.
Should fome gid tell me, that I ihould be born.
And cry again, his ofter I ihould fcorn. Deisham.

Thus, is a ftarry night, fond children cry

Then hclplffs in his mother's lap is laid.
refufcs, is not the apple or

To CkY up.
1 . To applaud ;
-v.

;

To

animal.
He giveth to the bead his food, and

to

the

a.

\ ou common try of curs, whofe breath I hate
As reek o" th' rotten fens ; whofe loves I prize
As the dead carcafes of unburied men,
Sbake/peare't Coriolanui,
That do corrupt my air.
Cry'al. ». /. The heron. Amj'iuortb.
Cry'er. See Crier.
Cr y'er. n.f. A kind of hawk, called the
falcon gentle, an enemy to pigeons, and
Ainjivonh.
very fwift.

CKY'?'nC\h.\adj. [«etV1«.] Hidden;
CRY'FTICK. J lecret; occult; private ;

ptetends to

CUnvilk's Apd.
Speakers, whofe chief bufmcfs is to amufe or
delight, do not con(ine themlelves to any natural
order, but in a cryptical or hidden method adapt
Watts.
every thing to their ends.

^''M'"out of intcreft, as well as convidtion,

nor
and profaned, he himfclf cannot be fafe,

le-

^'^*''

^
„
eaftern throne,

Cry'ptically. adv. \i\om cryftical.^

Poets, like monarchs on an
Coiifin'd by notbfng but their will alone,
Here can fry up, and there as boldly blame.

Occultly ; fecretly perhaps, in the following example, the author might h.-ive

And, as they plcali:, give infamy or tame,

written critically,

:

lyaljh.

Wc take the word acid in a familiar fcnf',
without cryptically diftinguilhing it from thofe
Boy!e.
fapors that arc a-kiu to it.
n, f. [ k^iVIw a;id

Thot'e who are fond of continuing the
rate.
conllant fuccefs at a moll prodigious
up
'^ our
Swift.

Hhairff.

To proclaim, publickly

Km

She feeks, ihc fighs, but no where fpic:
Crap^vi.
I^«c is ioit, and thus ihc criei him*
:

2.

not divulged.

eficfls into the near eificiency of fecond caufes.

""^

trampled on
cry up that for facrcd, which, if once
cure.

unknown ;

The ftudents of natuK, confcious of her more
cryptick ways of working, refolve miny ftranfc

5'"'*-

^

brought for religion, and rrji up very »•")<:

He may,

A pack of dogs.

12.

Thoy (light the ftrongeft arguments that can be
agrin.i it.

W^aHer,

There (hall bethe noife of a ciy from the fifhgatr,
and an howling from tlic fecond, and agreat cralhZepb. i. 10.
ing from the hills.

war, cry

fomcthing loll or found, in or«icr to its
recovery or reftitutlon.

cried up to the ftars from whence he

draw them.

To yelp, as a hound on a fceut.

To Cry. t/.

Invades again his trembling ear,
He ftrait refumcs his wonted care.
11. Yell; inarticulate noife.

The aftrologer, if his prediftions come to pafs,
is

P/alm cxlvii. 9.
The bealU of the 6eU cry alfo unto thee.
Joel.S.ia.

He cri'd upon it at the mctrcft lofs ;
Truft me, 1 t.ikc him for the bctttr dog.

Bacon to Villiers.

when cried up by the multitude.
vanity,
'

•

.

to exalt ; to praifc.
orought

The philofophcr defervedly fufpefted himfclt ot

jaung ravens «rhich cry.

10.

Sbake/peare't HenryWin.

a.

Inftcad of crying up all things which aie
commofrom beyond in, let u= advance the native

Lccki.

to Ihed tears.
Her wlm Hill weeps with fpungy eyes,
And her who is dry cork, and never iriri. Donne.
..
uuer an inarticulate voice, as an
^-9.

,-.

—

!

made
Each pang a death.

^rr, vii. 15.

Yelping of dogs.
He fcorns the dog, refolves fo try
The combat next ; but if their cry

10.

A fry of hell-hounds never ceafing bark'd. Miltm.

What is (he crying out f
So faid her woman ; and that her fuiTrance

Dryden's Fables.

'

Fray not thou tor this people, neither lift up
cry nor prayer for them.

About her middle round,

To declare loud.
;. To be in labour.

Chn-villt's Scepjis.

The child certainly knows, that the worm-feed
it

them,

4..

dities of our own kingdom.

For the rich fpangles that adorn the (ky. If^aller.
He druggies firft for bri:ath, and criis for aid ;

or muftard-fccd
fugar it criei for.

every fefl, as far as reafon will help

make ufe of it gladly ; and where it fails them,
above reathey .ry out, it is matter of faith, and
^»^*'fon!

Thou know'ft, the firft time that we fmell the air,

men.

Importunate call.

it.

Tumult, fcdition, and rebellion, are things that
ag,>inj}.
the foUowas of that hypothefis c<y out
I find

Ltckc.

complex idea called tunc.
9.

Siillmgfieet.

Herbert.
Againrt thee.
I.yfimachus having obtained the favour of feeing
contrivhis (hips and machines, furprifed at the
more
ance, <ried out, that they were built with
Arbuihnot on Coins.
than human art.

'

S Kinds alfo, befides the diftinft cries of biids
and beads, are modified by diverfity of notti of
different length, put together, which make that

111 offices,

You cry againft the noble ftiiate ? Sbat. Ciridanui.

To weep

preflion.

Sbak.

Cry out upon the ftars for doing
Hudibras.
to crofs their wooing.
Epiphanius criVs out upon it, as rank idolatry,

That in the fcvcral places of the city

8.

1

.

Will then cry out of Marcius : oh, if •»«
Had borne the bulinefs. Sh^ikcffearc's Comlarus.
am not heard.
Behold. 1 cry out c/ wrong, but 1
yoi.xix. 7.

For then mv guiltlefs blood muftcr_y againft them.

^

to cenfurc :

Giddy cenfurc

Yet let tlijm lu.ik they glory not in mifchief,
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men.

7.

;

Then let us meet them like ncccflities
And that fame word even now .riti out on us,

Jeremiah, ii. 2.

.

be fold in the ftreet : as, the criei rf
London.
7. Acclamation ; popular favour.
The r_y went once for the/*,
And nill it might, and yet it may again. Shaltfp.
8. Voice; utterance ; manner of vocal ex-

adminiftration.
Atterbury.

Are thcfe things then neccflities ?

Go and cry in the ean of Jcrufaiem.

6.

Proclamation.

The hawkers proclamation of wares to

We arc ready to fry cut 'if an unequal mamge-

raent, and to blame the Divine

upon.

to make publick.

5.

6.

To complain loudly.

2.

To

'.*

!

SuJ. xxiv.

the two elders cried cut againll her.

by reafon of mine affliflion, unto the
Jonas, \i. ».
Lord, and he heard me.
talk eagerly or inceffantly ; to re1 ni.'rf,

....

,

cries ow, a
.1; » pilh countries fome importor
to crmlirm the d-^luded vul
miracle f a miracle
gar in their errours; and fo the cry goes round,
Swift.
without examining into the cheat.

J'-iby realon of the arm of the mighty.
and
With that Sufanna cried with a loud voice,

To call importunately.

5.

Exclamation of triumph or wonder, or
any other paffion.
,

4.

;

DrydcrCi f^irgil-

;

Sbakejf. H.VIIl.

n,

to fcream ; to clamour.
;
out
They make the oppreffed to cry they cry

1

To proclaim

-v.

To exclaim

Shulajlicart,

While his falling tears the dream fupplied,
Thus mourning to his mother goddefs cried.

4.

to the king.

And from a mouth of honour <juite rry </<>wii

!

us go.

Proclaims Laocoon juftly doom'd to die.
Dryden's VirgV.
Thefe narrow and felii(h views have fo great an
influence in this cry, that there are feveral of my
fellow frecboldeis who fancy the church in danger
yiddifon,
upon the rifmg of bank-ftock.

To overbear.

%.

To fpeak with vehemence and loudnefs.

3

;

Amazement Icizss all ; the general cry

Bacon It yiUiers.
•

_

Weeping ; mourning.
outcry.
3, Clamour

z.

Ti/Zoi/.

means cry down that unworthy courfc ot
By
money.
late times, that they (hould pay

To CRY. V. n. \crier, French.]

2.

the land.

all

Two fools that crutch their feeble fenfe on vcrfe.

and tl*t« ihaU be a great rrji throughout all
Exodus.

die,

War/i.

To prohibit.

2.

Lamentation ; (hriek ; fcream.
And all the firft born in the land of Efypt fliall

I .

do-wn an admirable treatife ot phi-

wculd not be under the reftraints of it.

th-, y

fupport on crutches as a cripple.
1 haften Og and Docg to rehcarle,

1

;

becaule
of dill'olute lives cry down religion,

Men
Shai.

And gives the crutch the cradle's infancy.
a.

to decry.

lofophy, and fays there 's athe:fm in it.

2. It is ufed for old age.
Beauty dorh »»rniih age, as if new born.
i/.

Cry. «./. [eri, French.]

Cry eimvn. v. a.

7*0

The dumb (TiuU fmg, the lame his tnlci forego,
And leap exultinj! like the bounding roe.

Te Crutch.

CRY

CRY

CRY

To raife the price by proclamation.
All the effeil that I conceive was made by
mure
up the pieces of eight, was to bring in much
here.
of that fpccics, inilcad of others current

Crypto'graphy.

crying

%mplt

•y^aipi'.]

The art of writing fecret charafters.
2. Secret charaflers ; cyphers.
1

Crypto-

Crypto'logy. n. f. [n^t/Vlu and xjy^.]

which makes a fmall cavity in the
humour in which it lies. It is
covered with a fine coat, called aranca.
The parts of the eye are made convex, and
fide,

Enigmatical language.
Cryjlals are Lard, pellucid, and

natu-

gular figures, compofed of fimple, not
filamentous plates, not flexile or elaftick, giving fire with fteel, not fermenting with acid menftrua, and calcining in a ftrong fire.
There are many
various fpecies of it produced in different
parts of the globe.
Hill on FoJJils.

ticular figure, convex on both fides.

Ray

lize.]

Congelation into

1.

of a cryftal, varioufiy mod:fi?d, according to the nature and teiture of the f.;lts. The
method is by ditTolvir.g any faline boiy iu water,
and fiUeiing it, to evaporate, till a film appear ai
the top, and then let it lUnd to (hoot ; and this it
does by that attraOivc fotcc which is in all bodies,
and particularly in fait, by rcafon of its iolicity
whereby, wlien the mcnftruunrvor fluid, in wlilch
fuch particles flm-, is fated enough or evaporated,
fo that the ("aline particle: are within each other's
attractive powers, they draw one another more
than tiiey are drawn by the fluid, then will they

bles the for.Tj

A

which has much cmpi-»yed the v.riters on onticks,

:

double refradion ; (o that if" it be laid over
a black 'line, drawn, on paper, two lines appear in
tlie plate of one.
Hill.
Wa:er, as it feems, tumeth into crifial ; as is
fccn in divers caves, where the ciyjlal bangs in Jlil.
is its

cryftals.
And this is peculiar to thofe,
that, let them be ever fo much divided and reduced

run into

Bacon.

If cryjiai\x a ftone, it is not immediately concreted by the efficacy of cold, but rather by a rai-

Brotcn,

pr»per fliapcs ; (a tliat one might as eaiily divert
them of their ("altncfs, as of their figure. This
being an immutable and perpetual law, by knowing
the figure of the cryftals, we may underftand what
the texture of the particles ought to be, which can
form thofe cryftals ; and, on the other hand, by
knowing the texture of the particles, may be determined the figureof the cryftals.
Suircy,

the degree cf its diaphaneity and of its refraftion,
as alf:> of its hardncfs, which arc ever the fame.

IVoodivarJ.

z. Cryjlal is alfo ufed for a faflitious body
cart in the giafs-houfes, called alfo cry-

^a/ glafs, which is carried to

Cryjlah [in chymlftry] exprcfs falts or
other matters (hot or congealed in manner of cryfial.
Chambers.
If the mcnflruum be overcharged, within a

2.

clear ;

may, by cryJIalUxirg tlie folution, obBoyle.

-v, V, To coaguIatc,
congeal, concrete, or flioot into cryft.ils.

To Crv'st ALLI2E.

Stakejf. Cyrri.

lucid ;

Vryder..

Cry'stalline. adj. [cryjlallinus, Latin

bling pepper, but fomewhat longer, of a
greyilh brown colour on the furface.
It
has an aromatick fmell, and is acrid ta
Cubebs are brought from
the talle.
Htll.
Aromaticks, as eubels, cinnamon, and nutmegs,

Java.

arc ufually put into crude poor winfs, to give them

,-,

,

CunicK.
I

.

i

Bright ; clear ; pellucid ;

A dafe velTcl, containing ten cuhical feet of air,

'f"I>c clarifying of water is an experiment rending to the health j befules the pleafurc of the rye,
whtn water is cryjlalline. It is effected by cafting
in and placing pebbles at the licad of tji: current,
that the water may flrain through them.

BacynU Natural Ilijtbry,

He on the wings of cherub rode fublime

On the cryjlalline Iky, in faphir thron'd
Ulnllrious far and wide.

Miltiji.

humour of the eye, that lies immediately next to the aqueous behind the uvea,

oppofite to the papilla, nearer to the fore
part than the back part of the globe.
It is the lead; of the humours, but much
Its figure,

which is convex on both fides, refemblcs two unequal fcgments of fpheres,
of which the moll convex is on its back-

VOL. I.

couch.

The lion, and the bel!y-pinc!ied wolf,
Keep their fur dry.

Stahfjearc't King Lear.

In the eagle's dcrtroying one fox's cuts, tlicrc 's
power executed with oppreflion.
L'EJlrange.
2.

The young of a whale, perhaps of any
viviparous fifh.

Two mighty whales, which fwelling feas had
One as a mountain vaft, and with her came
A cub, not much inferior to his dame.
Thaller.
3. In reproach or contempt, a young boy
or girl.

O thoudilleinhling ci/i/ what will thou be,
"When time hath fow'd a grizzle on thy cafe ?
Orwill notelfethy craft (o quickly grow.
That thine own trip (hall be thine overthrow?
Shakejpcare.

O moft comical fight

it

not fuller a wax candle of an ounce to burn
above an hour before it be fufFocatcd.

It

is

H'ilkini':

Math, MagT"

above a hundred to one, againft any parti-

fjces with four u.t..Y.i/dicr ;

would outftare the fterneft eyes that look.

toft.

CVy'sTALMNE Humour, n.f. The fecond

more folid than any of them.

in

!

a

country fquire, with

the equipage of a wife and two daughters, came
to Mr. Snipwcl's fhop lafl night ; but, fuch two
Ctngreve,
unlickcd cull I

bccaufe there arc Co

many fevcral combinations of the fix faces of four
Beittky's Str/r.:i:i,

dice.

SlakcJi'earf.

tranfparent.

I
1
from^Bftf.l

cular rlirow, that yon do not caft any gi\en fc of

TTiis night, wherein the ^u^-drav.n bear wouid

Boyle.

rr

Having the form or properties of a

will

Pluck the you-ng fuckling cuhi from the (he-bear.

ShaieJ'furare't Cfrnhtline.

of cryjlairiife glafs.

J-

taiti.
3

cube.

bear or fox.

Confining of cr)t'.al.
Mount cagie to my palace criflnllinr.

Flcycr on the Humours,

more oily ("pirits.

Co'bical. 7

;

Wk' provided ourfelvcs with fome fmail receiv2.

Cu'beb. n.f. A fmall dried fruit refem-

CUB. n.f. [of uncertain etymology.]
1. The young of a bcaft
generally of a

.

ers, "blown

:

Arhutbno: on j^Hmcr.tj.

By cryjljl ftrtams that murmur through the meads.

1.

7 «• / The origin of a
Cv'^aiCK Root. 5 cubick number; or a
number, by whofe multiplication into
itfelf, and again into the produft, any
given number is formed thus two is
Chambers,
the cube-root of eight.

afford a fait neither acid nor alkaline.

In groves we live, and lie on mofTy bc.iF,

c->mmon centre, and
This common law being

tlicir

velocities.

Cube Root.

K-cent urine will cryftallmt by infpiffation, and

pellucid.

diftances, as

obferved in all of them, that the fquares of the
times of the revolutions are propcrti >nal to the
cubes of their diftances.
Grcw^s Cofmologia.

If you difTolvc copper in ajua forth, or fpirit of
tain a goodly blue,

tranfparcat ;

fcveral

with different

tals.

Confining of cryftal.
Then, Jupiter, thou Iting of Gois,

ing exsflly the folid content of any propoled body.
Harris,
CUBE. ft./, [from xtCo;, a die.]
1. [In geometry] A ;-egular folid body,
confifting of fix fquare and equal faces
or fides, and the angles all right, and
therefore equal.
Chambers.
2. [Inarithmetick.] SeeCuaicK Number.
All the mafter planets move about the fun at

To caufe to congeal or concrete in cryfnitre, you

Thy cryjl.1l window ope, look out.

Cu'b ATURE. «./ [from cuie.]The find-

7e Cry'stallize. -v. a. [Croai crjjlal.]

Bacon,

Bright ;

formed by congelation or

All natural rart.illick and mineral cryjlaliixaiioni
were ef}"c£ted by the water, which firft brought the
particles, whereof each confiils, out from amongft
the matter of the ftrata.
fl^toiiivard'i Nat, llji.

Cr.y'stal. ac//.

2.

mafs

concretion.

Ihart time the mecaJswill iboot into ceiuin cryjlah.

1.

The

;

Dead wine, that ilink^ of the Borrachi , fup
From afoul jack, or greafy maple cup.
Drydens Verfius,
Cuba'tion. rt. /. [cuiatio, La.un.] The
aft of lying down.
DU?.
Cu'batory. ac(f. [from cuBo, Lat.] Recumbent.
Dl£7.

into minute particles, yet when they are formed
into cryftals, they each of them rea(rume their

Cryjlal is certainly known and diftinguifhed by

a degree
of perfeftion beyond the common glafs;
though it comes faf (hort of the whitenefs and vivacity of the natural iryflal.
Chambers.

cryftals.

Such a combination of faljne particles as rcfcm-

pure, clear, and fine texruie, leidLim cither blexniibed with flaws or fpots, or {lained with an)
other colour.
remarkable property of this body,

oeral fpirlt.

en the Creation.

Crystalliza'tion. n.f, [troxa. cryfial-

IJlard cryjlal is a genuine fpar, ot" an citTeracly

licidm.

On a brown george with Inufy fwabbeis fed

cfpecially the cryjlallint humour, which is of a len-

rally colourlefs bodies, of regularly an-

3.

[from the no jr.] To
a.
bring forth : ufed of beafts, or of a
woman in contempt.
Cuhh'dm a cabbin, on a mattrefs la'd,

To Cub. f.

glafly

CRY'STAL. n. r:\y.e{,T«.>MS>:'\
I.

CUB

CUB

CRY

z.

applied to numbers.
The number of lour, multiplied into itfelf, produceth the Iquare number of fixteen ; and that
It

is

aglin

multiplied

number of

by Jiiur, producct]i the cuNck
if we (huuld ("uppol^; a

fixry-ft*ur.

muiliiude afluaily irjfi/iiu-, the e mull be infinite
roots, and fquaic and cuh'.ck numbers ; yet, of nccdnry, the ro it is' but tlvj fourth part of the
fquart, and tlie fixtecntli part of the cuhich numliale'i

ber,

Or'gin of Mankind.

The number nf ten hath been as h ghiy extolled, as containing even,

odd, long and plain, quaBnyLVn I Vulgar i.i-r.

drate and rrf^rVfl/ numbers.

Cu'bic ALN ESS. K. f, [from cubical.'] The
ftate or quality of

being cubical.

CuarcuLARY. aJJ,

[cubicitlicm,

Latin.]

Fitted for the pollureof lying down.
Cuftom, by dcgrccp, changed their tubiculary
beds into difcubitoiy, and introduced a fafhion b>
go from the baihs unto thefe. Brnvn's Vulg, Err,

Cv'ntroRM. ac^j. [from cube and/b/w.]

Of the (hape of a cube.
3

M

C'UEIT.

cue

CU D

A

young or old, he or flte, cuckold, or euckcldmakcr,

the ancients
which, was originally the diflance from
the eibow, bending inwards, to the

which !s jfterwarJs changed into a fljfliy fruit, for
the mod part oblong and turbinated, which is

One Hernando, cuckolJmakrr of this city, con-

b u c
CU^IT. «. /. [from cuiitus, Latin.]
itiealure in

ufe

let roe never hope to fee a chiiM -again.

among

extremity of the middle finger. This
mcalure is the fourth part of a wellSome fix
proportioned man's ftature.
the Hebrew cuiii at twenty inches and
a half, Paris meafure j and others at

Sbakiffcarc'i Hcnrj VIIl.

Dry den' t Sfoniff) Friar.
Cu'cKOLDOM. »./. [{torn cucioU.]
trived to ileal her away.

She is thinking on nothing but her colonel, ar.d
corfpiiing (^ck^ldomagit'tnAtnc^ Dryd, Sfani/hfr.

The (late of a cuckold.

2.

It

Calmit.

eighteen.

The aft of adultery.

1

finger, is half a yard, ami a quarter of the fiature ;

CU'CKOO. B. / [cucului, Lat. ctuccw.

Jio'tijr on *Xinie.

Welfh ;

ud

Cu'bital. a</J. [cubitaUi, Latin.] Containing only the length of a cubit.
The watchmen of Tyre niijlit well be called
pygmies, tlie towers of that ciry being fo high,
unto men below ihoy appeared in a cubital

March proudly to the river's fide.

One that is married to an

adulterefs

one whofe wife is falfe to his bed.
But for ail the whole world \ why, who would
JiQK.

make her hufljand a cuckoidf to make him a

monarch

.'

I fhould venture purgatory for 't.
Shakeffnare'i OthcUs.

There have been.

Or I am touch deceiv'd, cuchtds ere now
And many a man there is, ev'n at this prefent.

Now while I fpcak this, holds his wife by th'arm,
That little thinks flie has been fluic'd in 's abfence.
Shakeff'Ciire,

For though the law makes null

th' adulterer's

deed
Of linda to'her,the cuckold any fucceed.
Drydtti's yuvcrtaL
Ever (ince the reign of king Charles II. the
alderman is made a cuckeld, the deluded virgin is
debauched, and adultery and fornication are committed behind the Hlenes.
Swift,

VV Cu'cK.0LD. t;. il.

To corrupt 4 man's wife

,

;

The plain fong cuchnc gray,
Whofe note full many a man doth mark.

Take heed, have open eye j

fright.

ButfufTcr not thy wife abroad to roam,

Nor ftrut in ftreets with amuonian pace;

Cu'cKOLDLY. Hi/;, [from f«f/(»/d'. J Having the qualities of a cuckold ; poor
mean ; cowardly ; fncaking.
Poor cuihldly knave, I know him not: yet I
wrong him to call him poor ; they fay the jealous
knave hath mafles of money.
Sbjk'fftarc t Merry 'Wivei of Windfor,

Cu'cKOLn.M AKBR. ». /. [ f«r^o/</ and
maks.^ One that makes a praftice of
corrupting wives.
\i 1

fpatcd any cliat bad a head to hit, either

,

1

Cu'ckOO-bud.
"in./, [cardaminus
Cu'cKOO-FLOwBR. J
Lat.] The name
of "a flower.

have, for curiofity's

fak'?, dinilled quickfilver

in a cucurbite, fitted with a c<p:.eii;us glafs head.

Boyle on Colours^

Let

common yellow fulphur be put into a cuapon which pour the Urongcfl a^ua

curbite glafs,

Mortimer^

fortls.

CUD. n.f. [cub, Saxon.] That food which
is

repofited in the firft ftomach in order

to rumination, or to be chewed again.

Many times, when my mafter's cattle came
hither to chew their cud in this frefli place, I might
fee the young bull teftify his love.

Sidtiiy,

You range the pathlcfs wood.
While on a flow'ry bank he chews the cud. Dryd,

Cu'dden. \«./. [without etymology.] A
Cu'ddy. J clown; a ilupid ruftick ; a
low dolt a low bad word.
The flavering cudden, propp'd upon his ftaff.
:

Stood ready gaping with a grinning laugh. Dry Jen.

To Cu'ddle. v.

n.

[a low word, I be-

lieve, without etymology.]

To lie clofe ;

tofquat.
Have you mark'd a partridge quake.
Viewing the tow'ring falcon nigh ?
She cuddles low behind the brake

Nor would /he ftay, nor dares Jhe fly.
[kuc/ff, Dutch.]

Why, what a rafcal art thou, then, to praife him
A-horfcback, ye cuckoo \—.
but a-foot, he will not budge a foot.
Stakc/fearc's Henry IV.

^uiiicy.

bite.

name of contempt.

fo for running !

[cucuriit/t, Latin.]

«. f.

body, made of earth or glaf in the (hape
of a gourd, and therefore called cncur-

'Thonijvn.

2. It is a

Prlcr»

CtTDGEL. «. /

A ftick to firike with, lighter than a

1.

club, fhorter than a pole.
Vine twigs, while they arc green, are'brittle; yet
the wood, dried, is extreme tough ; and was ufed
by thecapuins of armies, amongft the Romans, for

When daizies pied, and violets blue.
And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue,
Do paint the meadows much bedight. Stakt-fpcare,

their cudgels.

Bacon.

Do not provoke the rage of i>ones
And cudgels to thy hide and bones
:

Tremble and vani.*..

Nettles, cuckoO'Jli^vcrif

Hudibras.

Sbak. King Lear.

The afs was quickly given to underlland, with a

Cu'cKOO-spiTTLE. «./ [^cuckoo &ni./pit-

good cudgel, the difference betwixt the one playfellow and the other.
L'Eflrangc.
His furly officer ne'er fail'd to crack
His knotty cudgel on his tougher back.

Darnel, and all the idle weeds.

//c]
Cuckoo./jf>itllc, or viooikirc, is that fpumous dew
or exudation, or both, found upon plants, efpecially about the joints of lavcndar and rofcmary ;
obfcrvabic with us about the latter end of May.
Broivni Vulgar Err:uri.

Dryden's Ju-venaU
This, if well reflcified on, would make people
more wary in the ufe of the rod and the cudgel.
Locke.

Cu'cuLLATE. \ac/J. [cuiii/la/iti, hooded,
Latin.]
Cu'cuLLATED. 5
1. Hooded; covered as with a hood or

The wife Cornelius was convinced, that thefe,
being polemical arts, could no more be learned
alone than fencing or cudgcl-^\i^\ ng.
Aibuibntt and Pcpe.

cowl.

For that's to cuckold thee before thy face.
Vrydcn't Jtdvcital,

Shakffpeare.

I deduce.
From the firft note the hollow cuckoo fings,
The fymphony of fpring j and touch a theme
Unknown to fame, the pafiion of the grove.

man the reproach of having an adulterotu wife ; to rob a man of his wife's

To wrong ahufband by tjnchaftity.

Sijkeffiare.
for thieves do foot

which referable

A chymical veflel, commonly called a^

by night,
Take heed ere fufflmer comes, or cuckoo birds af-

a

2.

Cu'cURBiTE.

Sfccfir.

to bring upon

fidelity.
If thou canft cuckold him, thou do'ft thyfelf a
pleafure, and me a fport.
Stakefftjrc't Othello.

Cucurbilaceoui plants are thofc

a gourd ; fuch as the punipion and melon.
Cbanthers,

Sidney.
alone with Pamela, I came in.
The merry <ric.*iiij, raeflengerof fpring.
His trumpet Ihrill hath thrice already founded.

Budibrat.

CU'CKOLD. »./. [eocu, Fr. from coukoo.]

bita, Latin, a gourd.]

like a cuckut by a nightingale,

And dares not anlwcr, nay.

Which moderns call a CBclting-fiaii,

Dryden'i Virgil.

CUCURBITA'CKOUS. aJj. [fr«m cutur-

faid to

Finding Mopla,

£rcvjni J^ul^ar Errourt.

quiet women, which, in ancient times,
Cetuel/.
was called tumbrel.
Thefe mounted on a chair-conile.

is

Miller.

With crooked bodies and with bcllif s derp.

tongues feems to have been formed.

tliat

Mature.

French; cokkock, Dutch.]

fuck the eggs of other
birds, and lay her own to be hatched in
their place : from which prafticc, it was
ufual to alarm a hufband, at the approach of an adulterer, by calling cuckoo ; which, by midake, was in time
applied to the hufbaud. This bird is
remarkable for the uniformity of his
note, from which his name in moll

and

Mcafilr'd by cuBis, length, and breadth, and
Hn/ttitt.
heights
The Je*,s ufed two forts of CBbitt ; the facred,
tlw profane or commoo one.
Arhuthnot on Meafurei,
When on the goddcfs fiili I caft my fight,
Scarce fircm'd her ftsture of a cuiir height. Pcpr.

'Ct/'cKitfCsTDOL n.f. An engine invented for the punifhment of fcolds and un-

cocu,

The common cu3. The long.

How CU. urnbcrt along the furface creep,

A bird which appears in the fpring,

1.

i.

cumber. 2. The white cocumber.
Turky cucumber.

man of the

jtrbuthi'.t' t John Bull,

The fpecics are,

long feeds.

pariih that knows of his cuckoldom, is himfclf.

From the tip of tht elbow to the end of the long
and ujakcj ata/*;/, thefirit mealurc w? read of", the
ark of Noah being framed a.id incafurcd by cabin,

1

a true faying, that the laft

is

divided into three or (oar cells, incloiin^ many ob-

Having the refemblance or fliape of a
hood.
They are differently cueultattd, and capuchcd
upon the head and back. Brown i Vulgar Errours.
Cu'cuMBER. n./. [cucumis, Latin.] The
name of a plant, and alfoof the fruit of

2.

that plant.
of one IJngle leaf, bell
{haped, and expanded toward the top, and cut into
many fcgments ; of which fonie are male, or barren, having no embryo, but only a large Itylc in
the middle, charged with iVit farina; others'are
female, or fruitful^ being falUaed to an cmb.yu.
It hath a riower confining

To crofs tht Cudgels, is to forbear the

2.

from the praftice of cudgelplayers to lay one over the other.
contell,

It is much better to giv,: wjy, than it would
be to contend at firrt, and then either to crtjs the
cudgels, or to be bathed in the conclufion.
L'Efr.

7"o

Cu'dcel. 'V. a. [from the noun.]

I.

To beat with a ftick.
My lord, he (peaks mod vilely of you, like a
foul-mouthed man as he is ; and faid he would
cuJgelyou.
Sbake/f. Henry IV
The afs courting bis mafter, juft as the (paniel
had ioM, iiiftead of being itrokcd and made much
of.

of, is only rated off and cuJgctltd lot all hb court-

Three duels he fought, thrice ventur'd h;i liic
Went home, and was cudgtU'd again by his «ile.

Drydcn'i Juvenal.

;

Swift.

To beat in general.

To Cuff. •:;. a.
1.

To ftrike with the fid.
VI! after him again, and beat him*

Cudgel thy brains no more about it ; for your
dull afs will not mend Ws pace with beating.
Sbakcfpeare t Hatr.kt.

pany ol'young fellows were tudgdlirt^ i walnut-trei*,
and a(ked them what they did that (or. VEflran.
Cudgel-proof, adj. Able to refill a

'

Do, cuff him foundly ; but Sever draw thy
Shakefpcare.

fword

Were not you, my
friend, abufcd, and cuffed, and
'

A good woman happened to pais by, as a com-

Congri'^e's Old Bachelor.

kicked ?
2.

To ftrike with the talons.
Thofe lary owls, who, perch'd near fortune's top.
Sit only watchful with their heavy witw.s

To cuffiovin ncw-flcdg'd virtues, that would rife
To nobler heights, and make the gruvc harmoni-

Hick.
His doublet was of (hirdy buff,

And though not fword, yet cu(ige/-f>r^f, HvJihrjs.

The daftard cravi, that to the wood made wing,
With her loud kaws her craven kiiiH does bring,
Who, fate in numbers, cuff the noble faijd. Drydcn.
They with their quills did all the hurt they cou'd,

Of round li/h there are britt, fprat, cudlet, eels.
Cjrczc,

Cu'dweed. «./. [from cuJ ind lueei/.] A

And cuff'd the tender chickens from their food.

MiiLr.

plant.
[queue, a tail, French.]

Drydcn.
3.

The tail or end of any thing ; as, the
long corl of a wig.
2. The lad word of a fpeech, which the
player, who is to anfwer, catches, and
regards as intiijffatioa to begin.
Pyramus, you begin : when you have fpyken
1.

To ftrike with the wings.

This feems

Hov'ring aboyt the coaft, they make their moan.
And cuff\ht difls with pinions not their own.

Cuff. n. /.

Drydens ^ncid.
Part of the

fleeve.

Arbuihntt.

Shjkefpsarf.

IM him know how many fervants there arc, of
both fexes, who exped vails ; and give them their
tue to attend in two lino, as lie leaves the houfe.
Suif:.

Convell.

CU'IRASS. »./

[cttlraffe,

leather ; coraccio, Ital.]

Fr. from culr,

A breaftplate.

The lance purfucd the voice without delay.

And pierc'd his cuiraft, with fuch fury fcnr.
And lign'd his bofom with a purple dint. Dryden.

Hold your bands,
Both you of my inclining, and the refl

Were it my cue to fight, I Ihould have known it

Cuirafftirs, all in Heel, for Handing fight.

Without a prompter.

Milfn.

Shiikrff care's Oihe'h.

Neither is Otto here a much more taking gentleman : nothing appears in his cue to move pity,
or any way make the audience of his party.
Rymer'i Tragedies if the Ufi Age.

The pifturc of St. George, wherein he is dcfcribcd like a cuiraffer, or horfemaa completely
armed, is rather a Symbolical image than any proper figure.
Brcnurt't Vulgar Errours.

a low word.

CuiSH. n.f. [cuijfe, French.] The armour

[Spanilh.]
To be in
cuerpo, is to be without the upper coat
or cloke, fo as to difcover the true ihape
of the cuerpo or body.

that covers the thighs.
1 faw young Harry, with his beaver on.
His cuipet on his thighs, gall mtly ^rm'J,
Rife from the ground like a fcather'd Mercury.
Shuhcfpearel Henry IV.
The croHet fome, and fomc tlie cufan mould.
With filver placed, aad with dudlile gold.
Drydcn s Mr.eid.
But what had our author to wound y^incas with

Humour; temper of mind

CUE'RPO.

:

n. f.

Expos*d in cuerpo to tlietr rage,

Without my arms and equipage.
lludibrm.
CUFF, n /. [xuja, a battle ; zujfare, to
fight,
I.

ed into for carriage to other places.

at arms ; a foldier in armoor.
The field, all iron, call a gleaming brown.
Nor wanted clouds of foot, nor on each horn

his turn.

5.

Cui'-SAGE. n. f. The making up of twine
into fuch forms, as it is commotily fram-

The part which any man is to play in Cuira'ssier. n.f. [fiom cuirafs.'] A man

if..

Ital.]

A blow with the

fift ;

a box; aftroke.

The prieft let fall the book.

And 1! he ftoop'd again to take it up,
The mad-brain'd bridegroom took him fuch atfttjf,
Th^t down fell
pricft.

priell

and book, and book and

Shakcfpeare.
money bid for argument, unlcfs

There was no
the poet and the pl.^->ct went to cu^t in the qucfiihaitjpearc.

tion.

He gave her a ci/jf on the ear, and Ihe wouIJ
prick him with her Knitting-needle.
Aibuihnit'i J<,hn Bull.

Their own fefts, which now lie dormant, would
be (Don at cuffi main .wllb each other about pover
and preferment.

H-wift.

8. It is ufed of birds that fight with tlitir
talons.

To CuKF.

"v.

n.

[from the noun.]

fight ; to fcullic.

lo

at lb critical a time ?

And how came the cuijhcs

to be worfe tempered than the relt of his armour ?

Drydfn.

Cu'ldees. n.f.

[colidei,

Lat.]

Monks

in Scotland.

honey.

Shakefpcan,

I do remember an apothecary

In tattcr'd weeds, with overwhelming brows,
Shakrfpcare's Romeo and Juliet.

Cullirg of fimples.

Then in a moment fortune fliail cull forth,
Outof one fide, her happy minion. Shak. K. John.
The choiceft of the Eritifli, the Roman, Saxon,
and Norman laws, being culled, as it were, this
grand cliaitcr was extracted.
Ho^vel's Parity of Beafls.

When falfe flow'rs of rhetorick thou would ft
cull,

Truft natut«, do not labour to be dull.

Drydcn,

From his herd he culls.

to the kitchen ; relating to the

art of cookery.
Cieat weight may condenfe thofe vapours and
exhalationi, a^ foon as thev ihall at any time begin
tp afcend from the fun, and make them prefently
fall back again into him, and by tliar adion inCfcafc his heat j

Dtydins Virgil,

When the current pieces of the (ame denf mination are of different weights, then the traders
in money cuU out the heavier, and melt them dtnvri

with profit,

Lo^tc.

With humble duty, and officious hafte,
I'll cull

the farthcfl mead for thy repaft,

Priyr,

The \aiious off'rings of the world appear:
From each Hie nicely culls with curious toil,
And decks the godJefs with the glitt'ring fpcil.
Prfe.

Cu'ller. n.f. [from «//.]

One wiio

picks or choofes.

CU'LLION. »./ [coglioiK, a fool, It.al. or
perhaps from fculUon. It fecms to import meannefs rather than foJly.]

A

icoundrcl ; a mean wretch.
Such a one as leaves a gentleman,
And makes a god of fuch a rallicn.
Shakcfpeare's Taming cf the Shrettf.

Up to the breach, you dogs

j

avaunt, ynitcullions.
SI aUJpcait.

Cu'llionly. «(^'. [from f«///on.]

Hav.

ing the qualities of a cullion ; mean ;
bafe.
I'll make a fop 0' th' moonfljlne of you : you
whorelon, culliinly, barber-monger, draw.
Shakefpeare' s King Lear.
Cu'llumbine. n./. [more properly fpelt

Columbine.]

The

flowers

of this

plant arc beautifully variegated' with
blue, purple, red, and white.
Miller.
Her goodly bofom, like a ftrawbirry bed;
Her neck, like to a bunch of cullumiines. Spenfer.

CU'LLY. ft.f. [eogflcue, Ital. a fool.] A
man deceived or impofefi, upon ; as by
(harpers, or a ilrumpet.

Cu'lerace. n.f. The fame plant with
ArsS-smart.
Ainf-ucoi-th.
Cu'linarv. adj. [culina, Latin.] Relating

culling from ev'ry flow'r.

For flaughter, four tlic faireft of his bulls.

3. A hint; an intimacioii; a (liorc direc-

Had he the motive and the cue for pailion
That I have ? Ne would drown the Aage with tears.

Like the bee,

Our thighs arc packt with wax, our mourhs with

[coeji, French.]

He railed at fops ; and, in<tead of the common
fathion, he woull vifit his miilrefs in a morning
giwn, band, ihort ivj^'i, and a peaked beard.

What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba,
That he fhould weep for her ? What would he do.

for themfelves, if there were in their tiocks any
poor difcafed thing not w;orth the keeping, they
thought it good enough for the altar of God.
Hooker.
Our engines (hall be bent
Agalnft the brows of this refilting town ;
Call for our chiefclt men of difcijUine,
To cull the plots of bell advantage. Shak. K. John,

improper.

your Ifcech, enter into th<it brake ; and fo every
one according to h's euf.
Sbtikifl^tarc^i MiifumTncr Night^s Dffairt'
tion.

Arbuti.r.-r

manut'adture.

To CULL. v. a. {cueilllr, French.] Ta
feleft from others ; to pick out of many.
The bell: of every thing they had being culled out

Ot'^vjy.

ous.

Cu'dle. a./. A fmall fea-Zilh.

•Cue. n./.

of culinary fires, it will reduce the price of i':.'f

Clapp'ns forces afled by the court.

While the peers cuff to make the rabble fport.

.'^-?'*-

fliip.

2.

c y L

C U L

U F

.C

mudi after the manner tliar, in

our' earth, the air incteales the h:at of a culinary
Ki'W*on.
fi\K.

To thofe who, by reafon of

northern
cxpofiti^O) will be Hill farced tu be at the cxpcnce
their

Why fliould you, v/hofe mother-wits
Arc furniih'J with all perquilites,
B' ailow'd to put all tricks upon

Our cully fex, atid we ufe nor.e ?
Iludihras.
Yet the rich cullies may their heading fpare
: >

They purchafe but fophillicated v>'3:x'.

Drydcn.

He takea it in mighty dudgeon, I)i*caufc 1 w )n'c
make me over by deed
\\\^ iawfulVi///}'.

let him

a'_

jlrl'Ulbnct,

To Cu'lly.

t.'.

a.

[from the noun.]

To

befool ; to cheat ; to trick ; to deceive ;
to impofe upon.

Culm i'ferovs.

ailj.

[aifmus and fere,

M Z

Culmifeicus

Latin.]
3

C U L
Culm'ifcnui plants are fuch as haTe t fmooth
jo'mtcd ftalk, and ufually hoUow ; and at each
joint the flalk ia wrapped about with fingle, narrow, long, Ihaip (oinled leaves, and their feeds are
Slu'mcy.
contained in cliafly hulks.
There are alfo feveral forts of grafles, both of

To CU'LMINATE. -v. n.

[culmen, Lat.]

;
to be in the meridian.
Far and wide hie eye commands
For fight no obftjcle found here, cr Ibad^,
But all fun/hine \ as when his beams at noon
Cjim'matt from th' equator. Mihcn'i Parad\fe Lajl.

To CU'MBER. f. a. [kommeren, iombereii,

To embarrafs

And would but eumter and retard his flight.
In which his only excellence is plac'd ?

With wifdom, difcipline, and liberal arts,

You give him death, that intercept his hafte.
Dryden's Fablel,

Hardly his head the plunging pilot rears,
Clogg'd with his doaths, and cumber'd with his
Dryden,
years.
The learning and maftery of a tongue, being
uneafy and unpleafant enough in itfelf, Ihould not
be cumbered with any other difficulties, as is done
Lcctr.
in this way of proceeding.
crowd or load with fomething ufe2.

bles.

Improvement in general ; promotion ;
melioration.

To

An inn.itc light difcovers the common noiions
of good and evil, which, by euliivaticn and improvement, may be advanced to higher and brighter

lefs.

Let it not cumber your better remembrance.
Sbekrfpeare' s Timoru
The multiplying variety of arguments, efpecially
frivolous ones, is not only loft laboury- but cumbert
the memory to no purpofc.
hocke,

South.
foundation of good fenfc, and a cultivation of
learning, are required to give a feafoning to retiredifcoveries.

A

ment, and make us tafte the blefling.

Criminal.
Proceed no ftralter 'gainft our uncle Glo'fter,
Than from true evidence of good eileem
He be approv'd in praAice luJfat/c, Stat- lien- VI.

improvement.
It has been lately complained of,

Honker.

Cu'lpableness. n. /. [from

culpable.']

Blame guilt.
Cu'i-PABMT. adv. [from culpable'] Blame;

ably ; criminally.
If wc p-iform this duty pitifully and culfably, it
Js not to be cxpefied ue Ihould communicate hrlily.

may be found innocent.]

A man ar-

raigned before his judge.
The knight appear'J, and iticnce they proclaim ,
Then fird the tulf,rii anfvuct'd to his namcj
fiai, after forms of 1 w, was laft requir'd
Tonan.ethe*C<irgihu w.'min mortdefir'd. Dryd.

An autUi^r is jn the condition of a rtt'^nV j the
jiublick are his judges*, by allowing too much, and
tun Jcleending tt o fa-, he may injure his own caufe ;

and, by picadirg an4.aflefting too boldly, he may
Prlu'i Prface to Sekmott.
di''plc.f'-- the C' urt.

Latin.] The iron
of the plough perpendicular to the Ihare.
It is commonly wiilten coulter.
[<-«//fr,

Her fallow Ires
Tl.e darnel, hemlock, and rank fumitory,
D>»*h loor upon ; while that the eu/tcr rufti
That (houlii deracinate fuch lav^gery.

Hmry'V.
r» CU'LTIVATE. -v. a. [cutti-ver, Ft.]
I. To forward or improve the produfl of
the earth by manual induftry.
Sl^itfj^eare^i

M.irtha was cumbered about much ferving. Ltike,

the ground ; tillage.
Give us feed unto our heart, and culture to our
underftanding, that there may come fruit of it.

Doth the bramble cumber a garden ? It makes
the better hedge ; where, if it chances to in .:1c
the owner, it will tear the thief. Graves Cjfmologia,

Cu'mber. n.f.

[komber, Dutch.]

Vexa-

tion ; burdenfomenefs ; embarraifment

EJdrai, viii. 6.
Thefe three laft were flower than the ordinary
wheat of itl'elf, and this culture did rather retard
Bacon.
than advance.
The plough was not invented till after the dea.

obilruftion ;

By the occafion thereof I was broug'.it to as great

Sferjcr,

The grcateft (hips are leaft fcrviceable, go very
deep in water, are of marvellous charge and fearful
Raleigbm
cuntbcr,

Where grows .'—Where grows it not ? If vain
our

toil.

We ou^ht to blame the culture, not the foil.

2.

Cu'mbersome. «^'. [from cumber.]
Troublefome ; vexatious.

1

Thinking it too early, as long as they had any
break off fo pleifing a company, with

Art of improvement and melioration.
One might wear any patlion out of a family by
as (kilful g.irdcncrs blot a

culture,

day, to

going to perform a cumbrrf^me obedience.

colour out of d
Tatler.

tulip that hurts its beauty.

To Cu'ltur e. f. a. [from the noun.] To
cultivate ; to manure
to till. It is ufed
by Thomfon, but without authority.
Cu LVER. i:.f. [columha, Lat. cul):jie,Sax.]

was drawn in to write the tirit part by acciand to write tht fecond by fome dtfcfts in
the firft ! thefe are the cumberfome perquifites of
I

dent,

Whence, jorne on liquid wing,

Cu'lvkrin. n.f.

A

fpccies

'jhomfont Spring.

[colowvrine ,

of ordnance

:

French.]

originally

a

hawk.

A whole cannon requires, for every charge, forty
pounds of powder, and a bullet of fixty - ffiur
pounds; aculverin, fixtecn pounds of powder, and
a bullet of nineteen pounds j a dctn'i'culverin, nine
pounds of powder, and a bullet of twelve pounds.
Ifilkins't Maib. Magic.
Here • well polilh'd mall gives us the jny
To fee our prince his matchlefs force employ :
No fooner has he touch'd the fiying ball,
But 'tis already more than half the mall
And I'uch a fury from his arm 't has got.
As AoB> a fmoaking cuhcna 'twere flioti IValler.

Arbuthn.'t on Alimcrti,

authors.

Uuwieldy ; unmanageable.

3.

A pigeon.

The founding culver (boots.

Sidney,

Burdenfome ; embarraflJng.

2.

;

An old word.
Had he fo done, he had him fnatch'd away,
Mure light than culver in the frulcon's iift. Sj-enfcr.

dillurbance ;

cumber and danger, as lightly any might efcapeSidmy.
Thus fade thy helps, and thus thy cumbert fpring.

lude ; the earth requiring little or no care or cul
but yielding its increafe freely, and without
ffood-ward.
labour and toil.

Pope.
Fix'd to no fpot is happihcfs fincerc.
They rofe as vigorous as the fun ;
Then to the culture of the willing glebe. Thomjon.

hindrance ;

diftrefs.

turc,

is great difpute.

of the judge being that the prifoner

to diftraft with multiplicity

To be troublefome in any place.

5

The aft of cultivation ; the aft of tilling

1.

;

of cares.

Boyle.

CU'LTURE. n.f. [cultura, Latin.]

Ctj'tPRiT. »./.

It is likely that it is a corruption of
^'il parcit, may it fe appear \ the wi(h

by fome cul-

of the feed not any grafs fprings up.

Taykr.

[About this word there
It is ufed by the judge
at criminal trials, who, when the prifoner declares himfelf not guilty, and
puts himfelf upon his trial, anfwers.
Culprit, God fend thee a good deli'verance.

Shakeffeare'i Julius Cajar.

To bufy

4.

thvatori of clover grafs, that from a great quant; ty

fa many admirable patterns of virtue, and no one

All fuch ignorance is voluntary, and therefore
culfatle ; foralmuch as it was in every man's power
Souib.
to have prevented it.

td diftrefs.
Domeftick fury, and fierce civil ftrife,
Shall curr.ber all the p.irts of Italy.

or endeavours to forward any vegetable
produft, or any thing elfe capable of

Blameable ; blameworthy.
The wifdom of God fetlcth belore us in Saipturc

Tixu only art jufi.

7'o involve in diiEcuIties and dangers

3.

;

Sferijtri State nf Ircl.

of them without fomewhat noted wherein they
were culfaklt ; to the end that to Him alone it
might always be acknowledged, Tica only art holy,

Dryden.

Cultiva'tor. »./ [from culii'vate.] One
who improves, promotes, or meliorates

2. Guilty : with o/.
Thtfe being p-rhaps culpable of this crime, or
favourers of their friends.

to entangle ; to obftruft.

;

why alks he what avaiis him not in fight,

To cultivate the wild licentious favage

2.

[from cu.'palk.]

Dutch.]

to difturb,
1

Addifen't Calo.
Th' embellifliments of life.
Cult IV a'tion. n.f. [from cultivate.]
1. The art or praftice of improving foils,
and forwarding or meliorating vegeta-

Blameablenefs.

Ci/'lte R. »./.

to meliorate.

Waller.
Our mufe would flourilh.
To make man mild and fociable to man.

CU'LPABLE. c<i)'. {culpabilit, Latin.]

3.

;

And patience had to eullivate our thoughts.

ridian,

1.

Felton en the Clajfuki.

To improve

Were we but Icfs indulgent to our faults,

CtJLMiN a'tion. rt. /. [from culminati.']
The transit of a planet through the men. /.

Looking down the meadows I could fee a pA
cropping culverkr/t and cowflips, to make garWalton'i Angler.
lands.

the richeft harveft.

To be vertical

Culpabi'lity.

moft flourilhing in production ; and, as the foil is good, and no coll nor care
wanting to improve it, we muft entertain hopes of

8.

/Irbaibno!.

maize, panic, miller.

Cu'lterkey. n.f. A flower.

Thofe excellent feeds implanted in your birth,
will, \( cultivated, be

the Cyprus and ailmffrcut kinds ; fome with
broader, oihei« with narrower leaves.
lyuuiivard on FoJiU.
The propereft food of the vegetable kingdom
It taken ftom the farinaceous or mealy feeds of
fome culmlftnat plants ; as oats, barley, wheat,
rice, r>e,

CUM

C U L

Very long tubes arc cumberfome, and fcarce to be
reaJily managed.

iVncren i O^ticli,

Cu'mbersomely.

adv. [from cumberIn a troublefome manner; in a
fome.]
manner that produces hindrance and
vexation.

Cu'mbersomekess. n.f. [from rxon^/rfome.]

Encumbrance; hindrance; ob-

liruftion.

Cu'mbrance.

n. f.
[from camber.]
Burden ; hindrance ; impediment.

Extol not riches then, the toil of J'ools,

The wife man's cutnbrance, if not fnare ; more apt

To fiacken virtue, and abate her edge,
Than prompt her to do aught may merit pralfe.
Milton,

Cu'mbrous. adj.
I.

[from r»»j^iT.]

Troublefome; vexaiioasj difturbing.

A (loud

CUP

CUP

C U N
A cloud a( cumbrous gnats do him moleft,
All driving to infix their feeble ftingSi
That from their noy^tnc: he no where can relli

I do preftnt you with a man of mine,
Cunning in mufick and the mathcmaticks.

after the former manner when thou waft his butler'

To inftruQ her fully in thofe fciences.

Shaicjp.
Wherein is he good, but to tafte fick and drinl

S^nfer»

2. Oppreflive ; burdenfome.
Hencefojth 1 fly not death, nor would prolong
Life much
Bent rather, how I maybe quit,
T"aireft and eafiefl-, of this cumbrcui charge. Milturt,
They rear'd him from the ground,
And from his cumiroua arms his limbs unbound ;
Then lanc'd a vein.
Drydtn,
PolTc/Tion's load was grown fo great.
He funk beneath the iumhrcus weight.
Swift,
3. Jumbleci ; obftrufting each other.
Swift to their feveral quarters hafted then

Thou (halt deliver Pharaoh's cup Into his hand'

it ?

Wherein cunning,

but

Shairfpeare's Henry IV.
me now therefore a man cunning to woiii

Send

jn gold and in filver, and that can /kiU to cut and
2 Chronicles.^
to grave.

Ferment from fociai cups.
Philips*
2. The liquor contained in the cup ; the

draught.
Which when the vile cnchanterefs perceiv'd.
With cup thus charm'd imparting (he deceiv'd,

When Pedro docs the lute command.
She guides tiK cunning arcift's hand.

Prior.

Performed with flcill ; artful.
And over them Arachnc high did lift

2.

Spcnjcr*

All friends Ihall tafte
The wages of their virtue, and all foes
The cups of their defervings. Shakefp. King Lear,
Will 't pleafc your iordlhip, drink a cup of fack ?

Her cunn'rg web, and fpiead her fubtile net,
Enwrapped in foul fmoak, and cloudii more black
than jet.

The f aasirsHi elements, earth, flood, air, fire. Mi/t.

Sfenjcr.

And there befide of marble ftone was built

Cu'mprey. n.f. [con/clida.] A medicinal

Sbakefpearcm

An altar, carv'd with tunning imageiy
On which true Chriftians blood was often fpilt,

They that never had the ufe

;

part.

A plant.

Cu'MiN.w.yl [c«/8/n»/n, Latin.]

And holy martyrs often done Co die.

Sfenfer,

3.

trickilh ;

A man that beholds the mighty (hoals of /hells,
bedded and cvmuhucjy heap upon heap amongft
earth, will fcarcely conceive which way thefe could
ever live.
ffooJiverJ,

gems

good deed to make a
more hurt thjn
Bacon.
Men will leave truth and mifery to fuch as love
it ; they are refolved to be cunning : let others run
the hazard of being fincere.
South.
of them ; for nothing doth
that cunning men pafs for wife.

Latin.]

moft certain, that the Englifli made not
their beft improvements of thefe fortunate events;
and that efpecially by two miferable errour , cunclarion in profecuting, and hafte in departure.
It Is

Uaywani,

The fwifteil animal, conjoined *ith a heavy
body, implies that common mor j1, /^fli;u /tnie;
and that celerity fhould always be contempered
with cuti£la:hn,
Broivn*

4.

Afted with fubtilty.
The more he protefted,

Artifice ;

deceit ;

craft ; fubtilty ;

flinefs

;

diflimulation ;

fleight

lent dexterity.

Others, bei.ig unwi:iing to difcourage fuch cuncalways keep them up in good hope, that, if
they are not yet cal'ed, they mjy yet, with the
thief, be brought in at the iafl hiur.

dom; and

fully ;

Gu'neated. a'fj. [(•»««», Latin.] Made
in form of a wedge.

Cu'meiform. aJj. [from cuneus :mA forma, Lat. ] Having the form of a wedge.

The fourth,

inftruaed ;

—

Schtolmaflera will I keep within my houfe,
Fit to inllruil her youth
'Jo cunning men
1 will be very kind ; and libeial

To mine own children, io good bringing ap, Sbai.

fubtilely ;

Cu'nningij.ess.

n. f. [ from cunning.
]
Deceitfulnefs ; flinefs.
CUP. n. f. [cup. Sax. hop, Dut. coufe,

French.]
I .

A fmail velTcl to drink in«

si

That you and he are cup and can :

You travel with a heavy load,
And quite miftake preferment's road.
6.

a bruit

T' attack the cunningmurt, for plunder
Committed falfely on his lumber.
Hudibras.

Familiar companions.
The can is the large veflel oi'.r of which,

And how his lordfhip was fo kind
Sivear he 's a moft facetious man ;

by fraudulent

Of bejJIc, conflable, and watchmen,

ionnen, Dut. to know."]

well

;

Then cunningly retire unfecii.
With each a mllion in his coffers.
Sivift.
Cu'n n 1 n c m a n . n.f. [cunning and man.]
A man who pretends to tell fortunes,
or [each how to recover ftolen goods.
He lent him for a llropg detachment

CU'NNING. ai/J. [from connan, Saxon;
knowing;

flily

Cvfai/tlCan,

the cufi is filled, and to which it is
conllant aflbciate.
You bcafting tell us where you din'd.

Lnke.

and rumour, a little t)cfo:e the
field fought, that the rebels had the day, and that
the king's army was overthrown, and the kin^
fled ; wheieby it was fuppofed, that many fuccouis
were cunnirg'y put off and kept back.
Bacon's Henry VII.
I muft meet my danger, and deftroy him firft
;
But cunningly and elcfcly.
Denham's Sofhy.
When (lock is high, they come between.
Making by fecor.d hand their offers;
dii'^cifcj

ing 10 a weifge; having the form of a

learned.

JVoodiuard en Fofjils*

5.

knowledge; right-hand

5

:

in much die fame maimer as an acorn in its cup.

great dilTerence be-

con.rivance ; craftily.
Amongll other crimes of this nature, there was
diligent enquiry made of fuch as had raifed and

Relat-

Ji/fivort/b.

Ikill

as, the
hulk of an acorn ; the bell of a flower.

A pyrites of the fame colour and fliiipe placed

cunning.

wedge.

the rocks.

Art;

Any thing hollow like a cup

in the cavity of another of an hemifpherick figure,

Cu'nninglv, ae/'v. [from cunning."] Art-

Carno's Survty t>f CtrKvuall.

and fixth bones of the foot ; thus
called from their wedga-Iike (hape, being large above and narrow below. Di<^.
Cu'nner. n.f. [/{fas.] A kind of fi(h
lefs than an oyfler, that fticks clofe to

is

apcofwifdom.
2.

lundtih, as they call it, the mjftcr of each boat.

fifth,

certainly there

tween a cunning man and a wife man, not only in
point of honelly, but in point of ability.
Sii.on.
Difcourage cunnhg in a child ; cunning is the

Hamm;r.ds FunJamtntals.

Cuneiform bones, n.f.

Diydrn's Perjias*

4.

We

tateri,

CU'NEAL. adj. [ciinius, Latin.]

His limbs disjointed, and all o'er difeas'd.
His hand refufes to fuftain the bowl.

;

fraudu-

to delay ; a lingerer; an idler; a fluggard.
Not in ufe.

Dutch.] To give notice : a provincial
or obfolete word.
See Con d e r.
They are dircifted by a bjiker or huer on the
cliff, who, difceming the*couifc of the pilchard,

Thence from cups to civil broils
Mihon.
Amidll his cups with fainting fliiv'ring fciz'd.

Cu'nning. n.f. [cunnmje, Saxon.]
1.

Knolles.

near a miracle to fee an old man filent,
fince talking is the difeafc of age ; but, amonglt
lupt, makes fully a wonder.
Ben jonjon's Dijccj^

the more his father

miferable fubje£l of his cuttmng, whereof you
fpeak ?
Sidney.
take canning for a finifter or crooked wif.

know,

without care, without any great affcftion to either
party.

thought he dilTemblcd, accounting his integrity to
be but a cunning face of falfehood,
Sidney.

What if I be not fo much the poet, as even that

to

Sbakefpeare's Henry V,

Let us fuppofe that I were reafoning, as one
friend with another, by the fircfide, or in our cups,

It was

CUNCTJ-rOR. n.f. [Lat.] One given

To CuND. <v. n. [from konnea,

Then /hall our names,
Familiar in their mouth as houfehold words.
Be in their flowing cups freflily remember'd.

lift

Delay ; procrallination ; dilatorineis.

Social entertainment

merry bout.

are infinite, and it were a

bu9.
[cunilatit,

llrata-

crafty ; fubdolous.
Thefe fmail wares and petty points of cunning

Cumula'tion. »./ The aft of heaping
Cukcta'tion. ». /.

of fetches and

full

Pope's Odyffey,

[In the plural.]

3.

fubtle";

;

Waller^

The beft, the deareft fav'rite of the /ky
for man is born to die.

Muft tafte that cup ;

That can thy light relumine. Sbaktjptares OibeUc.
Artfully deceitful ; fly ; defigning

To CU'MUL.^TE. V. a. {cumulo. Latin.]

together.

To- the firft delicious cup
All their reafon render up.

Thou cunnir.g'Ji pattern of excelling nature,
I know not where is that Promethean heat

Rank fmelung rue, and aimin good for eyes.

To heap together.

Of the grape's furprlfing juice.

Sfenfcr.

Once put out thy light.

MJlIer.

Skilful;

Far from fair Albion ; nor let civil broils

crafty, but in villainy ?

!

1.

The Britilh iOes, fuch dire events remove

Whercif

craft ?

in

Gcnefis'

Ye hcav'niy pow'rs, that guard

[cauper, French, to fcarify.]

Siuijt,

A glafs

to draw the blood in fcarification.
Hippocrates tells >ou, that in applying of cups^
the fcarification ought to be made with crooked
inftrumcnts.
Arlutbnot.

To Cup. t. a. [from the noun.]
1. To fupply with cups. This fenfe is obfolete.

Plumpy Hacchus, with pink eyne.
In thy vats our' cares be drown'd ;
With thy giapcs our hairs be crown'd !
Cup us, till the world go round.
Sbakefpeare's Jlnlotty and Cleopatra,
2.

Fr.]
To fix a glafs
bell or cucurbite upon the (kin, to draw
[couper, to cut,

the blood in fcarification.

.

The clotted blood lies heavy on his heart,
Corrupts, and there remains in fpite of art
Nor breathing veins nor cupping will prevail
All outward remedies and inward fail. Dryd. Fab.
You have quartered all the foul language upon
me, that could be raked out of the air of Billingfgatc, without knowing who I am, or whether I
defcive to be cupped aad fcarified at this rate.
Spedalor,
Bhiierin^

CUR

The n«nn of tiger, iii'r, or whatc'er

iaU and intunpcrate.
MJifon'i SptSltlor,
Mim the duniii'd doftort and his friends immur'd \
lite

Btfe,

Cvpbb'arer. tl./.
1. An officer of the king's houfehold.
There is conveyed

to

Mr. Villicrs an intima-

tion of the king's pleafure to wait and to be fworii
his fervant, and Oiortly after his cufhtarer at

A

This vine was laid to be given to Tros, the fa-

Cu'racv. n.f. {hom curate-l

A cafe with
Saxon. ]
in which visuals or earthen

or receptacle,

Were not the laws planted amongS them at the
firft, and

here in town.

(o ibort, to boot.

And wilely learn to cvrb thy forrows wild.

His ckfioarj'i head fix earthen pitchers grac'd,
Beacaih thera was bis trufty tankard pUc'd.
Dij Jin'i Juveva!.
Yet their wine and their viftuals thcfe curmuJ-

A

1.

clerg)'man

rious things, he ought to keep down -the growth of

his reafon, a;>d, riir^ his intell:duals.
Co.'Hcr OS Pride,

Stvifl.

hired

to

Knowing when a mufe ihnulu be indulged
In her full flight, and whe» Ihe ihould be curbed,

perform the

Hofcommcn,

duties of another.

He fpar'd no pains

;

At this (he curb'd a groan, that elfe had come j
And, paufiDg, vicw'd the prei'ent in the tomb.

for curate he hi.1 none.

Nor durft he tri>lt another with hi«_carc. jQ/jV. F.

geon-lubbards

Lock up from my fight, in cellars aad cufhoarjs,

Dryden^i Fahlcs,

A parifti priert.

2.

Till force returns, his ardour we rcHrain,
And curb his warlike wiih to crofs the main. Dryd,
Some poor cottage on tl:e mountain's brow.

Biibop^ and curatat and all congregations
Ccmm'^n Prfiyer.
I though^ the Englilh of nreiie had been, an
ecdcfiaftical hireling.
No fuch matter; the
proper importof the word fignifics one who has the

S-uiift.

[from the noun.]
to hoard up.

The belly did remain
and unaftive,

StiU cupietirJirg the viand, never bearing
Like labour with the roll. ShiikeJl>iarei Coriolanut.

Where pinching want muft curb thy warm defires.
And houfehold care:; fupprcfs thy genial fires. Priori
Nature to all things fix'd the limits fit.

And wifely curb'd p lOud man's prctendiiig wit.

Collifr on Pride.

cute of fiHils.

The

Cu'rateship. ft./, [from curate.]

Pope.

3.

fame with curacy.
Ci/pi'dity. n.f. [(«//'<///(»/, Latin.] Con- Oc'rative.
Relating
ac/J. [from cure.']
cuplfcence ; unlawful or unreafonablel
not prefervative.
to the cure of difeafes
longing.
The therapeutick or curutlvc phjiick, we term
;

A dome; the

hemifpheric.ll fummit of a building.
Nature feems to have dctigncd the head as the
and
tupili to the moft glorious of her works
when we load it with fupcmumcrary otnamonts,
we deftroy the fymmetry of the human figure.

that which rcAorcs the patient unto fanity.
Sriiivn's Vulo'rErr^un.
There may be taken proper ufeful indications,
both prefervative and curatitie, from the qualities

;

n.f.

There be otliar b&dics fixed, as we fee in the
fluff whereof fi/^/ii/i are made, which they put into

Bacon 5 JStatural Bifiory.

a fcariHer.

n.f. [from cup and
A glafs ufcd by fcarificrs to
glaj's. ]
draw out the blood by rarefying the xu.

Cuppi NC-Gi, A.«s.

curdi, and whey, as it is eaiily turned anddiffolveJ.

A minor cannot appear as a defendant in court,

This n'lght, at teaft, with me forget your care j
Cheilnuts, and iurds and cream, (hall be your fare.

but by his guardian and turaf-r, jtyhffci fanrg'M.

1.

fKifman.

A

curb is an iron chain, made
the upper part of the branches of the
bridle, in a hole called the eye, and
running over the beart} of the horfe.
Farrier's Ditfi.

A worthlefs degenerate dog.
•Tis a good dog.

•— A rur, Sir.
•-Sir, he "s a good dog, and a fair dog. Shaieff.
Here 's an old drudging cur turned off to fliift
for himfelf, for want of the very teeth and hicls
thai be hadloft in hii maller'jftnicc, VEfirangi.

To Cur I), v. a.

[from the noun.] To
turn to curds ; to caufe to coagulate.
Maiden, docs it curd thy Mood,

To fay I am thy mother >

The ox hath his bav^:, the horfe his eufi, and
faulcoii hii bcUs^j h man hath his defires.

To C

abtiie/feare's j^tyou l:h U.

So four fierce coucfem, rtarting to the race,
Seavi (brough the plain, and lengthen ev'ry pace ;
Nor rcinc, nor curii, nor threat'oing cries they
Drydin.
fear.
2.

-

Sip round the pail, or tafle tlic cufdling cheefe.
I

^iKnij -ns Svtmner,
'

Under th' inevitable cuih, rcferv'd
Stillon'i Baradije Lfi.

7

Bacon,

Some to llie houfe,
The fold, and dairy, hungry bend their flight.

Appear in your impediment. ShtUelp. Ccrioianus,
We remain
In ftrifleft bondage, though thus far remov'd.

His captive multitude.

.

ftoniacii.

The Roman fiatc, wliufe courfc will on

The way it takes, cracking ten thoufand turtt
Of molt ftrong links al'under, tlun cm ever

Shjhj'ptart's jl.'l'l tvel! that er.ds tieU.

rDLE

the niilk fomewh.it from turning or curdling in the

Reftraint ; inhibition; oppofition ; hin-

drance.

u

f. n. [from curd. ] To' coagulate ; to ftioot together ; to concrete.
Powder of mint, and powder of red roles, keep

t'.ic

niacfc, m.id<:

1.

LetSporus tremble.— What! thatthing of filk?
Sporui, that mere white curd of afs's milk ? Pope,

fall to

pery; confiding of copper.

Ci'R. n.f. [/fern?, Dutch. SeeCi/RTAL.]

Drydctr,

CURB, n.f [cDurhcr, to bend, French.]

Cu'pRBOWS. adj. [cj;^rfa/, Latin.] CopHaving, by tlie ii:tcrvcotiun of a little fal armocoj-per inflammable, I trok fome
fmall grains, and put them under the wicic nf a
burning candle : whereby they were with the
mrltcd callow fo kindled, that the green, not blue,
BiyU:
fiame of th- cufrmi body did burn.

Bacon,

A guardian appointed by law.

A bubu, in this cafe, ought to be drawn outward by cuff'mg-glajfii, aod brought to fupporation.

Sivi/i.

nat'rcks arc pcrfoiis of honour.

2.

Cu'ppER. »./. [from f///.] One who applies cupping-glail'es ;

dcnce of a.ny thing.
The cunitvs of Bediam alTurc us, that tqfW '"-

of milk ; the concretion of the
thicker parts of any liquor.
Miik of itl'elf is fuch a compound of creamy

lation

One that has the c.ire and fuperiuten-

Sec Coppel.

furnaces, upon wiiicb fire wjrkcth not.

CURD, n.f [See Crudle.] The coagu-

CU'RJTOR. n.f.- [Latin-]
1

Ci;'pPEL.

the tropics, yet arc not thofe parts diredily fubjedt
to his perpendicular b^am^ unhabitable or extremely hot.
Say,

ybbutbnot.

of the air.

Sometimes with /"roOT.

Vet you ire curb'd J rom that enlargement by
The confcquenec of the crown, ^hakefp, Cyrnbeline,
4. In the following pafTage it ^gnifies, I
think, as in French, to bend.
Though the courie of the fun be curbed between

.'

CV'POLA. n.f. [Italian.]

Milton,

If fenfe r.nd learning are fuch unfociable impe-

CU'RATE. »./. [curator, Latin.]

That his ihort wife's ihort Ugs hung dangling out

had they not governoors to curb and keep

them rtill in awe and obedience } Spettfcr on Ireland,
Then thou, the mother of fo fwcet a child,
Her faifc imagin'd lofs ceafc to lament.

Employ-

if they be very fortunate, arrive in time to a cmacy

Bacon i ?vat:irai iit/lcry\

to inhibit ; to check ; to

;

confine ; to hold back.

They get into orders as loon as they cm, and,

for tables, cuphfiardi, and dflks, as walnut.

Milisr.,

ftecd.

To reftraln

z.

man holds under the beneficiary.

Some tt«« aie beft for planchers, as deal ; fome

I* th' midft o' th' body, idle

Part wield their arms, part curb the foaming

ment of a curate, dillinft from a benefice ; employment which a hired clergy-

ware is placed.

;

To guide or reltrain a horfe witn a curb.

I .

[^ftom (vrabie.']
Poflibility to be healed.

Cu'pBOARD. n.f. [cup, and bopb, a cafe

Farrier's Did,

fide.

roCuRB. 1'. a. [from the noun.]

confumption of the lungs, at the beginning,

Ct/RABLENESS. n.f.

'

To treafure m a cupboard

A curb is a hard and callous tumour,
which runs along the infide of a horfe'j
hoof; that is, on that part of the hoof
that is oppofite to the leg of the lame

3.

A

ther ol' Priam, by Jupiter, as a recompence tor his
carrying away his fon Oanynwde to b< his <vfBrnomt,
tusTtr*

iTe Cu'PBOAiiii. v. A.

the true intercft of our country, will allow this to
Atterhury.
be an effeilualferA upon us.

herein differs from all other «r«i/<-difeaies, that
it is not to be worn away by change of diet, or a
Harvey.
cheerful I'pirit.
defperatc wound mud Ikilful hands employ,
But thine is curahle by Philip's boy. Dryiin% Juv,

2. An attendant to give wine at a feail.

Codrus had but one bed ;

Even they, who think uu under no other tic to

A

a remedy ; that may be healed.

Jargc ; and the fummer fcUowing be was admitted
Wott<m.
in ordinary.

llielves,

Dinbiiis's Sofiy.

Denotes the noWcll or the falrell beaft. DryJ,Ju-v.
term of reproach for a man.
What would you have, ye curi.
That like n'>t peace nor war ? Sift'ff. dr'ahtus.
This knight had occafi.Jn to inquire the way to
St. Anne's Lanej the psrfun, whom he fpoke to,
called him a yi^ung popi/h cur, and alkcd him, who
j4,ii!ifcii.
made Anne a faint i
Cu'rable. adj. [hom (ure.] That admits

2.

They bl«d, they «/f V, they poig'J ; in fliort they
cur"d.

Ky thefe men, religion, that lhautJl>e
The curi, is n;adc the fpur to tyranny.

A,fi«r n>»)r bear

Bliiterint. caffini, and bUrJinf, are feldsm of

ufe but to

CUR

C U R

To Cu'rdle. -J. a. To caufe to coagulate ;
to force into concretions.
His changed p.wers a: firlt themfelves not felt,
Till curdled co\A his courage 'gin t' alfail. Spcri'tr.
Mixed with the futh part of a fponnful of m'ilk,
it burnt ti the fpace of one hundred pulfes, and

the milk was ennljcd.

Btctn's Natural H'f.ry.

CUR
My foul

CUR
the fame,

IS all

ITnmovM with fear, and movM with martial fame
But my chill blood Is cyrdUd in my veins

The lazy blood, and freezes at my heart.

To hear the folemn curfetu.

The privileges,

This league that we have made
Will give her fadnefs very little cure
;
Brother of England, how may we content

Now we 're ador'd, and tlic nczt hour difpleafe

j

Qualities are fo weighed, that curhfty in neither!
can make choice of cither's moiety. Shak.K.Lear.'

nature.

3. The benefice or employment of a curate
lies

4.
1

among the lawyers, let nothing!

faid againft

entangling property, fpinning out
ciufei, fqueezing clients, and making the la.vs a
greater grievance than thofe who break them. C'Jl.
fce

To heal

to reftore

;

medy ; to recover
difeafe.

:

to health ; to re5.

The bones, in (harp colds, wax brittle; and
therefore all contufiont of bones, in hard weather,
are more difficult to cure. Bacias Natural Hijiaryi
Here the poor lover, that has long endur'd

Some proud nymph's fcorn, c/ his fond paflion"*;
"""''^'

I.

Walkr.

preferved from corruption.

[cure and le/}.'\

To afk my hated name,

No way to fly, nor flrcngth to hold out fli-ht.

Conceals me from my (hamc.

Repair thy wit, good youth, or it will fall

To curelif, ruin.

8.

i,hakeffea-e' , Merchant cf yenke.
If, faid he.

tlieir

2.
3.

you (hould fight, you go again/l the hair
•t your profemons.
SLakeJpeare.
1 ne mdcxterity and worfe fucccfs of the
m ^ft
famous of our confumption curcrs, do evidently
demonftiate their dimnefs in beholding its caufes.

4.

That curl'd .Megxra.
4.

Ilarvcy c<i ConJ'umpiiini.

5.

CtJ rfew. n. /. [cowvre feu, French.]
J. An evening-peal, by which the
Con-

The vifitation of the winds.

Who take the ruffian biii.'ws hy the top.

Sbakefpeare's Henry IV,
Seas would be pools, without the bruOiiiig air

fo

5.

Difficult to pleafe ; felicitous of perfeflion ; not negligent ; full of care.

Exaft; nice;

To curl the waves.
To Cur. I,. 'V. n.
i.

llaokcr.

A

that in many places, at this day,
where

Mihons Paradife Lo/l.

Toraife in waves, undulations, or fiu'u-

Curling their moiiilrous heads.

temperate pcr(on m n:t.curieui of fancies and
dciiciuufnefs ; he thinks not much, a.^d fpeaks n.it
often, of meat and drink.
Taylor,

rake

Sbakrfpejre,

ofities.

IVudivard.

A(:curate ; careful not to miftake.
Till Arianifm had made it a matter of
great
fharpnefs and fubtlcty of witto be a found
believing Chriitian, men were not r/inuMwhat
fylbl.lei

or particles of fpeech they ufcJ.

;

They, up the trees
Climbing, Cit thicker than the fnaky locks

fome-

Then thus a fcnror of the place replic".

dies : if

To writhe to twill.
To drefs with curls.

If (he (irft meet the curled Antony,
He'll make di-mand of her a kifs.
'

Well read, and rurwaj o/'antiquities. Dridcn'tFab.

He is a curer of foulj, and you a curir of bo-

and put out his light;

natural hiftory.

What haft thou been .'—

the luft of my miftrefs's heart, and did the aft
of
darkncfs with her.
Shakejpairs' s King Lett;

Sometimes with of.

3.

phyfician.

his fire,

—A

fervlng man, proud in heart and mind,
that curled my hair, wore gloves in my cap, ferved

been as curious :u to their origin, their ulVs, and

A curtliji ill, finte fate will have it fo. Dryd. Fab.
Cu'rer. »./ [fromrar^.] A healer; a

up

Attentive to ; diligent about :
times with after.

gentleman fo very fBrJoajj/ftr things
that were elegant and beautiful, (hnuld
not have

For love of he^w'n, with patience undergo

querer willed that every man fliould

To turn the hair in ringlets.

1

Wc(l,y.

It is pity a

Your grief alone is hard captivity.

,

Newton's Opticks,

To CURL. "v. a. [krollen, Datch; cyppan.
Sax. krille, Dan.]

Tell them, the grave that hides my cl.iy

Sbaieffejrc'i Htrry VI.

Undulation; wave;

fiinuoJity; flexure.
Thus it happens, if the glafs of the prifms be
free from veins, and their (ides be accurately
plain
and well polKhed, without thole numbcrlcfs wave*
or curls, which ufually arife from the land holes.

Then let him know the Belgians did retire

Bootlcfs are plaints, and eurelefs are my wounds

;

Drydeni Faileu
2.

Inquifitive ; defirous of information
;
addidled to enquiry.
Be not curhus in unnece(rary matters ; for more

Before the patron faint of injur d Spain. Drydcn.
Reader, if any curious (Say

to-

Sidney,

Juft as in aft he (tood. In slouds enlhrin'J,

After a viiSory which we difdain.

Without

curls

Her hand (he faften'd on his hair behind,
Then backward by his yellow curls (lie drew

If any one too curious (houid enquire

cure ; without remedy.

.

She apparelled herfelf like a page, cutting nfT
her hair, leaving nothing but the (hort
cov?r that noble head.

A euriaui wi(h, whichdid corrupt their will. Daviei.

The beef would be fo ill ch^fen, or fo ill cured,
aa to ftink many times before it came
fo far as
_"""""'•
Temple.

A ringlet of hair.

To him, and him alone, confefs'd in view.

Rcclus. iii. ^3.
Even thcB to them the fpirit of lyes fuggclis
That they were blind, hecaufe they faw not ill
And breath'd into their oncorruptcd breaf^s

To prepare m any manner, fo as to be

ezc/J.

1.

An objeft of curiofity; rarity.

things are (hewn unto thee than men underftand

From love, the fole difeafe thou canft not cure.

Artfully; exaftly.

Curl. n.f. [from the verb.]

CU'RIOUS. adj. [curiofiu, Latin.]

Hear what from love unpraflis'd hearts endure.

Cu RELEss.

.

We took a ramble together to fee the curiifities
of this great town.
Mdifins Frteioldcr.

J never knew any man cured of inattention. Stiiifi.

2,

nice experiment.
;
There hath been praSifed alio a curhfity, to let
« tree upon the north (ide of a wall, and, at a little
heiijht, to draw it through the wall, and fpread it
upon the fouth (ide j conceiving that the root and

comfort of the f«i; but it fjrteJ not.
Baccn'i Natural Hijiory,

with of before the

Ufed of patients or difeafes.

An aft of curiofity

3.

4. C.iptioufly.

lower part of the (lock (houli tnjoy the frelhnefs
of the (hade, and the upper boughs and fruit, the

To Cure. o/. a. [cura, Latin.]
1.

Hjy,

Niwlons Opticks,
Elegantly; neatly.
Nor is it the having of wheels and fprings, tho*

never fo curioujly wrought, and artiiicially fct, but
the windiog o» them up, that muft giv«^notion to
the watch.
Sautir,

Our fenfcs, however armed or alfuted, are tool
grofs todifcctn the curiofty of the workman(hipof

Luke, xiii. 32.

or clergyman.

darker than the reft.

2.

Accuracy ; exadlnefs.

3.

S-uiift.

Aa of healing.

more .curicujly, I faw within it feveral fmaller
round fpots, which appeared much blacker an*

'

!

fome remote part, by way of a cure for the cori'u--

.

At (irlH thought there had been no light reflefled from the water in that place ; but oblerving it

they mocked thee for too much curhfity ; in thy
rags thou knowelt none, but art defpifed for the
contrary.
Sbahffears'i Timon.^

i

Inquiiitively ; attentively; ftudioufly.
He looked very curioujli upon himlelf, fometimes fetching a little (kip, as if he faid his (h-ength
had not yet forfaken l\im.
Sidney,

1.

Bacon to I'iiliers,

I

At firft your fart, and after your difeafe. Granvil/e.
Horace advifes the Romans to feek a feat in

If his cure

Cu'r!Ouslt. ad'u.
adtj. [from
ffrom curiou!.!
curious.']

or per-

Inquifitivenefs ; inclination to enquiry.
2. Nicety ; delicacy.
When thou waft in thy gilt, and thy perfume,

Drydeni Fai/es.

Uneerftandingto devifc curious works, to work
goW.
Exodui.

Tcox curicui I cannot be with you,
Signior Baptifta, of whom I hear fo well. Sbakefp,

1

Sbekc/feare's King Jctn.

finifhecl.

Rigid; fevere; rigorous.

9.

Bacon.

Curio's TV. n.f. [rom curious.'\

Cold, hunger, prifons, ills without a cure.
All thefe he muft, and guiltlefs oft, endure.

I do curei to-day and to-morrow.

prerogatives,

haps retinue, of a court.
The court and curial'dy.

reftorative.

Elegant ; neat ; labeured ;
in

Curia'lity. »./ [from c«r.'V/j, Latin.]

CURE. n.f. [cura, Latin.]

Fairfax,

T-,

8.

a fireplate.

fo as the compound (?ulf is like to pafs.

Arhutknot on Aiitiutits.

2.

;

o
lUilicti.

But now for pans, pots, curfcics, counters, and
the like, the beauty will not be fo much refpefted,

It ditfers from a vegetable emulfion, by coagulating into a curdy mafs with acids.

tion of manners.

A cover for a fire

2.

concreted; full of cards; curdled.

j

By curioui chance, or carelefs art, compos'd.

Over (bme wide-water'd (hore.
Swinging (low with fullen roar.

Cu'rdy. ajj. [from ciird.'\ Coagulated;

This widow lady ?

A vaile obfcui'd the funlhine of her eyes.
Each ornament about her feemly lies.

I hear the far oflf curfeiv (bund.

Smith.

Hi^ldtr,

The rofe within herfelf her fweetnefs clos'd

Sbakefp. Temfeji.

Oft on a plat of rifing ground

There is in the fpiritof wine fome acidity, by
which brandy curdla milk.
Fhfer.

;

difcrimlnation, than the other fenfc.

7. Artful ; not negkaful ; not fortuitous.

Is to mnke midnight mufhrooms, that rejoice

Drydcn's l^irg':!,

Ev'n now a fatal draught works out my foul
Ev'n now it curdlei in my flirinkJng veins.

Remedy

aldance, with more variety, and with a more eurisat

You, whofc pa.fimc

And fcarce the ihadow jf a man remains.

1 .

CUR

a bell IS Cuftomarily rung towards bedtime, it is faid to ring curfeiv. CoiuelL

fubtle.

^oth thcfcfcnfes embrace tUijirolycfts atgreaier

2.

Dryden's Fables,

I'o (brink into ringlets.
Thofe (lender aerial bodies aie feparatcd an.lrtretched out, which otherxvifc, by rcaCori
of their
flexihiencfs and welghr, would (lag or
curl. B-iylc,

To rife in undulations.
To every nobler pjriion of the town

The curling billnvs rowl their lertiels ride;
In pariie!. now they ftragglc up and down.
As armici, uuoppos'd, for prey divide.
Drydeir,

While iurling finoak.5 from village tops are leenT

I

Z'

Tar

n. f.

[courlieu,

time, is pad doubt, though it i» not fure that it
was ftampt ; for he is faid to be rich in cattle, in
Artuibnot.
filver, iind in gold.

Drydent Fablti*
Fr. arquata,

Lat.]

A kind of water-fowl, with a large

,|.

Carnu,

puffins.

Generally

I,

beak, of a grey colour, with red and
black fpots.
Among birds we reckon creyfers, curlnvt, and

A bird larger than a partridge, with

S.

In a conllant motion.

Without oppofition.

That there was current money in Abraham's

And llatnp'd an image of himfelf, a fov'reign of
the world.

1

2.

chant.

Th-n nxind her fiender waifthe evrTJ,

"Cu'rlew.

Cu'RRENTtY. adt). [from curreni."]

Shekels of filver, currem money wUh the merCen.

To twift itfelf.

5.

CUR

CUR

CUR

longer legs. It runs very fwittly, and
frequents the corn-fields in Spain, in
Sicily, and fometimes in France.

received ;

The very caufe which maketh the fimple »nd_
ignorant to think they even fee how the word of
God runneth currently on your fide, 15, that thcit
minds are foreftalled, and their conceits perverted

uncontradicted ;

authoritative.
Many Krange bruits are received for current.
Sidnef.

Bccaufe fuch as openly reprove fuppofcd difordets of ftate are taken for principal friends to
the common benefit of all, under this fair and
plaufible
poo'i

Popularly; fafliionably ; generally.

4.

Without ceafing.

Cu'rrentkess. «./. [from current.']

colour, whatt'ocver they utter palTeth for

[It is a vicious

3.

have colleilcd the fafts, with all pollible impaniality, from the current hillories of thofe times.

When fubftaniialn-is combincth with ddight-'

niggard ; a churl ; a griper.
Aini when hi: lias it in his claws,

of the king of France's death.

They have been trained up from their Infancy

Curmu'dceonly. ai^.

[from curmud'
Avaricious ; covetous ; churlifh ;
niggardly.

fai'e

wortii and merit, ftriSly taken : that is a man's,
intrinfick, this his current, value ; which is lefs or'

more, as men have occaCon for him.
Crew's Ci^ntoftfgia

Falhionable ; popular.

6. PalTable; fuch

may be allowed or

as

Fouler than heart can think thee, thou canO

make

:

No eitcufe current, but to hang thyfelf.
Sbukejpeare's Rklard III.

7.

What is now pafling; what is at prefent in its courfe : as, the current year.

Cu'rrent. n./.

A running llream.

1.

They buttcr'd currants on fat veal beftow'd,

And rumps 01 beef with virgin honey ilewM^
Infipid taRe, old friend, to thera who I'aris knew,

Sidney.

j

Fi^pe.

.

A

ble.
Sweet fpeaking of> a currip heart reclaims.

j

admitted.

xor:ntb.

Nor ccnid tlTch- tainted flefli with ocean tides
Drydcn's Virgil,
Be freed from fiith.
Co'RRisy. adj. [from cur.] Having the
?iualities of a degenerate dog ; brutal j
ihalignant; churlour; quarrelfome
ifh ; uncivil ; untraftable ; impraftica-

'

Which lives as long as fools are pleas'd to laugh,

Cu'rrant. n.f. [i-ibes, Lat.]
The tree hath no prickles ; the leaves
are large
the Hower confifts of five
leaves, jriaced in form of a rofc : the
ovary, which arifes from the centre of
the fiowercup, becomes a globular fruit,
produced in bunches.
2.
fmall dried grape : properly written

For ufelcfs to the currier were their hides,

;

Oft leaving what is natural and fit,
The current folly proves our ready wit;
And authnrs think their reputation fafe,

tl>e

L'KJIraitge.

chargf.

To lodge their loathfome carrion under ground;

i

5.

The currtnt, that with gentle murmur glides,
Thou know'rt, being ftoppM, impatiently doth ragt-,'

No care of juftice, nor no rule of reafon.
Did thenceforth ever enter in his mind,
But crurlty, the fign of curHJb kind. Hulii. Tafe.
In ft(hii.>ns wayward, and in loVe unkind;
For Cupid deigns not wound a cuiri/h la'ind, S^irf.
I would Ihe were in heaven, Co (he could
Entreat fome pow'f to change this curnib Jew.
ihakiji-ve.
She fays your dog was a cor; and tells you, currijb thanks is good enqugh for fiicb a pctifent.
ZlaUlfeare.

To CU'RRY. --v. a. [cerium, leather, Lat.]
1. To c'refs leather, by beating and rubbing it.

But bis fair courfe is nut hindered ;
He makes I'weet mufick with th" enamelt'd ftones.

To beat

;

to drub ; to thre(h ; to chaftife.

Skakejfctire.

A deep dcfign in 't to divide

King.

Thefe inequalities will vanifl» in one place, and

The w; ll-atfcdttd that confide;

[from current.']
X. Circulation ; power of pafling from hand
to hand.
The currtrcy of thofe half-pence would, in the

prefently appear in anotlier, and fcem DcrfcdWy to
move like waves, ifucceeding and dcftrojing one
another; fave that their aiotion oftentimes feeics

Where rocombole, (ballot, .and the rank gar! ck
gro\v.

Cu'rrency. n.f.

univerfal opinion of our people, be utterly dcf^i active to this kingdom.

,

to be quickeft, as if in that vaft lea they were carBoyle.
ried on by a curntit, or at leaft by a tide.

2. General reception : as, the report had

a long currency.
3- Fluency ; readinefs of utterance ; Ciritiefs of pronunciation.
4- Continuance ; conllant flow ; uninterrupted courfe.
Thcfxrrrnfy of time to cftabliOi a cuftom, ought

The papers
colonies

2.

ftampcd in the Englifh
for

money.

P-.ie.

3.

Courfe ; progreflion.
The cafllc of Cidmus was taken, and Thebes
inverted by Phcbidasthc Lacedemqnianinfidioufly ;

CU'RRENT. adj. [airreni, Latin.]

whiih drew on a refurpriae of the caft'e, a recovery
of the town, and a current of the war, even into

t. Circulatory ; pafling from hand to hand.

the Walls of Sparta.

Baan.

To rub a horfe with a fcratching inftrumcnt, fo as to fmooth his coat, and
FriiVions make the part's more flcfby and full ;
we lee both in men, and in the currying of
horfes : the c.-ufc is, for that iliey draw a griaicr
as

M the pans. Bacon.
To (cratch in kindncfs to rub down

quantity of fpitits and blood

4.

;

with flattery ; to tickle.

[In navigation.] Currtnts arc certain
progreflive motions of the water of the
fea in feveral places, either quite down
to the bottom, or to a certain determinate depth ; by which a ihip may happen to be carried more fwiftly, or retarded in her courfe, according to tlie
dircdlion of the current, with or againil
Harris.
the w.-iy of the ihip.

}7ud'u>ras,

promote his ficfii.

Not fabled Po more fwelh t!it poet's lays.
While throuuh the (ky his fiiining rurrfM ftrays.

Ba on.

by authority, and pafling

3-

DcTtkam.

•

claw and curry one anothtr.

may cxpofl her to take care of her' family, and

cilny herhide in caf; of rcfulal. jidjijon's SfrUjrir.

To'ihine among the ftirs, and bathe the gods,

5. General efteera ; the rate at which any
thing is vulgarly valued.
He th« thinkiith Spain to be fome great overmatch for this edite, alTifted as it is, and may be,
is no good mintman, but takes grcatnefs of kingdoms according to 'their bulk and currency, and
€>.

I

Thy nobler rtrcams fnall vifit Jove's abodes,

to be with a continuanj-' from tlu- beginning t" the
end of the term prcl'ciibcd.
y^j/iffe's Farirgcn.

not after intrinfick value.

By felting brother againft brother,
'!»•

Heav'n her Eridanus no more (hall Iwaft,
Whofc fame in thine, like Icder current, 's loft ;

SlL'ift,.

L'Eftriinge.

Warn'd by frequent ills, the way they found

We are alfo to confider the difference between

In a country where he that killed a hog invited
tHe neiijhbourhood, a curmudgeonly fellow advilcd

might

^ laid him down rejdy money for it.

yilddtj'jn.

Popular ; fuch as is ellablilhed by vul-i
gar eitimation.

4..

geon.^

with his companions how he

A curri.r bought a he«r-fltin of a huntfman, and

About three months ago we had a current report

A

.

Camden's Remains.

nefs ?

avaricious churlifh fellow; a mil'er; a

He'll not be hide-bound to the caufe ;
Nor fiialt thou And hiin a cttrntjidgeon.
Hudiirai,
If tliou difpatch it without grudging.
man'f way of living is commended, bccaufe
ihe will give any rate for it j and a man will give
any rate rather than pafs for a poor wretch, or a
Locke.
pcnuriouo iurmu^getn»

J

how can

the language found other than molt full of fweet-

Common; genet*!.

3.

and currer.incjs with ftajcdnefs,

fuliiefs,

Cw'rribr. n.f. [coriarius, Latin.] One
in one fet of notions, without ever hearing or
who dreffes and pares leather for thofe
knowing what other opinions arc current among
who make (hoes, or other thing;;.
U'ait!.
mankind.

manner of pronouncing cerur mechant,
Fr.
An unknown corrcfpondent.] An

.

Circulation.

General reception.
Eafinefs of pronunciation.

I

Siv'ift.

•CURMLrDGEON. n./.

1.

2.

hitokcr.

and current.

Hv,ker, Preface.

beforehand.

3.

If

I

had a luit to mailer Shallow,

I

would hu-

mour his men ; if to his men, 1 would curry with
mailer Shallow.

J.

To Curry
favourite

Skaltejfvarr.

Fa'vour.

To become a

by petty oiHcioufnefs,

(light

kindnefles, or flattery.
He judged them ftill ovcr-abjeiJVIy to fawn upon
the heathens, and to curry favcur with infidels.
Hcckcr.

This humour fucceedcd fo with the puppy, that
an afs would go the fame way to work to curry
L'Efirange.
fa'Mur for himfelf.
Cu'rrvcomb. n.f. [from curry z\A comb.]

An irori inllrument ufed for currying or
cleaning horfes.

He

CUR

CUR

He has a clearer idea from a little print tbaii

CUR

have certain fliires allotted to each of
them, into which they make out I'uch

from a long definition

and (o he would have ol"
;
and Jijlrum, if, inftead of a currycomb and
cymbal, he could fee ^atnred in the margin fmall
pidiurcs of thefe inftruments.
Lcclit:,

'ft"g'l

To wifli evil to

Cozvell.
tlic handwriting of that juftice,

j for thev aie too niighty for

Curfory ; hafty ; carelefs.
A word, 1
believe, only found in the following

!

:

This irrprecation was for Laius' death.
And thou haft w fhed me ILke him. Dry, and Let.
2. To mifchief ; toaffliil; totoiment.
On impious realms and baib'rous kings impofc
Thy plagues, and curfe 'em with futh fons as tliofe.

O'erglanc'd the articles.

The filv.-r about which thou {urj'rdji, and fpeakeft

Cu'rsori NESS. n.f. \JxQm curfory.] Slight

of aifo in my eari, behold the fiiver is with me.

Hafty ; quick ; inattentive ; carelefs.
The firft, upon a curfory and fuperficial view,

Malediclion ; wifh of evil to another.
fuffsrcd

my mouth to iin, by

wifiling a curjt to his^fouU

'Job.

appeared like the head of another man.

never went from your, lord (hip hot with a
longing to return, or without a hearty f*r/r to him
who invented ceremonies, anil put me on the necciTity of withdrawing.
Drjdtti,

!

Qv'KiZD. farticipial ae/J. [from cur/e."]
Deferving a curfc ; hateful ; detelbble
abominable ; wicked.
Merciful pow'rs
Reftrain in me the curfed thought) that oatare
2.'

Unholy ;

iibakfff^tare\ Macbeth,

unfanftified ;

bladed by a

curfe.

Come, lady, while heav'n hhds us grace,

1-

-

This curjcd fjuarrei be no more renew'd j
Be, as bsconr.rs a witc, obedient ftil!,

.

,

,

Though giiev'd, yet futjcil to her hu/band'iwill'.
nrydai.

'

He ne'er fo curf, his tonjjue is kind.

Nor curjinfi grow fo tlie flatter.

rri,r.

a low cant word.

'

r

'^

H*r eyes to fpirkl^i .fires to love ual«no'.vri
Het fallow cheeks Ucr envious mind did (hew,

on
;

.

.

.

ol

Aftd cv'ry

and can-

jjot .regain one t ..,

--^jeiicetjf

another.

Ptpe.

Cu'ii«Ei>NH»s. >r. / [(rem car/ed.] The
ftate of being under a curfe.
Cu'usHlP. n. /. [from cur.] Doglliip
meannefs ; fcoondrelftiip.

CU'RSITOR. n. /.

[Latin.]

roCU'R'lAlL.

•

An officer

or clerk belonging to the Chancery,
that makes out original writs.
They
are called clerks of courfe, in the oath
of the clerks of Chancery. Of thtfe
there are twenty-four in nmnber, which
Vo,,. 1,

ff ok«

aloud

.-

the. curjk<ejt
/

,.-. i.

of a

Dryieii.

Curt. a/*)!. [from.f«r/ai, Latin.] Short.

;

How Jurft he, 1 lay, oppilc thy carp\f,
'Oainft arm^. autli/irijy, aod wnf/hip ?
HuA'tbra:.

ff^tfjrjc

""'«"'•

"J.

a

{curio,

Lilm.

It

was anciently written curia/, which perhaps is more proper ; but dogs that had
their tails cut being cj.IIed curfal dogs,
the word was vulgarly coiiCeivcd'^o mean
originally to xut the icril, and was in time
written according to ih.t notion.]

I.

To cut off; to cut (hort
I,

;

to fiiorten.

that am curtaird of all fair proportioTr,

Dcform'd, un(ini/hd,.f.!\t before my time
Utakcfp. RUiard III.
Then why (honid we ourfclves abridge.
And curtail our own privilege ?
tfudibras.

Into this breathing world.

ni;e

w U

curtain wi'l f ion hidraivn between

tiie

;

my friend and me, and nothing left but to wi(h v .u
a long good night.

3.

pipe,

•

l''oopen it, fo as to difcern the objeft.
So fmn as the all-cheerrng furi
Should in the fartheft eaft bogin to araw
The Qiady curtain from Aurora's ted.
Shakr/beare's Romeo and fnHet.
Let them deep, let them lleep on.
Till this iiormy night be lione,
;

Tli.'n the lurtain will be drawn.

\.

[In fortification.]

Crfpa-ia.

That part of the wall

or rampart that lies between two baftiiOus.

,

,'•'"...

'
'

i..being over-run "

h'urnet's Tl/eory,

And th' eternal morrow d, wn

ShahJ^eare'i Antony and Cleopatra,
Her month ihi writh'd, her forehead, taught to
frown,
,

Cu'rsedi.y. adv. [from curfed.'\ Mifer-

To

Once more I write to you, and this

Cri^Jhi-'tc.

Thcii, nojle partnr 3,
Toych you tic;foureft points with fweeie.1 terms,

Wnetc Wounding tiiurnt and lurJid-xiiMii gr".v.

Curtain.

To draiu the
clofe it,
fo as to (hut out the light, or conceal
the objeft.
1 mull draiv a curtain beiVire the work, for a
while, and keep your patience a lit- c in fufper.fe.

nefs ; frowE^rdnefs ; mtilignity.

:.

'

2.

Cu'rs.tnfss. n.f. [from f/«y?.] Peevifn-

One d^y, Iithitilf, irt Pir^riife he liv'ri ;
Rcliin'J th; nejt h journey to purfue,

fliimefuil-y^;

!

.

Mill'jn.

.

•^

Thy hand, great Dulnels lets the fBrr.jiBfa.i,
And univerfal darknefs buries all.
Pii,e.

be the laft

And ihtcwj and froward, fo beyond all meafure.
That, were my (lite far worfer than it is,
I would not wed her for a mine of gold.
Shatfp.
When I diifuaded him from his intent,
And found him pight Co do it with cjrjl fpcech,
1 threaten'd to difcovcr him.
Shak, King L far.
And though his niind

f>rcerer "u> en'icc

With (omc orh' lic.v J:\'cc;
Not a wafte
nd,
Till we comi:
.und.
J. Vexatioii5 ; tioublelome.

ably ;

Sol through white carramj (hoc a tim'rous ray,

Andop'd thofe eyes that muft eclipfe the Jay. Foj>e.

Is, that (he "s intolerably mr/!,

Let us fiy this curftd place,

'.

'

Their curtains ought to be kejc ipen, lo as to
renew the air.
Arhuthmt on Diet.

:

'

L'^ft t'lc

fure, to admit or exclude- .he light; to
conceal or difcover any thing ; to lliacie
a bed ; to darken a room.
•

•

!

Gives way oo in repofe.

1

AJJi/cr.

Mr.' Mafon, after his manner, was very mcTiy
with both pirtiesj pleafantly playing both with the
(hrcwd toudies of many cur/1 boya». and with the
fmall difciecion of many lewd fihoolmafters.
Ajtbam^s Schcto!maJ}cr,
Curjt cows have (hort horns.
Prmeri
I pray yog, though you mock me, gentlemen,
Let her not hurt me : I was never citrfl
;
I have no gift at all in (hrewi/hnefs
I am a right maid, fur my cowardice
;
Let her not ftrlke me. Shah. Midf. Algbt'sDream.
I'll gofeelf thebearbtgonefrom thegcntlcmm,
and {iiw much he hath eaten
they are never cur/}
but when they are hung'v. Shaktff .Winter iTa'e.
Her only fiutt; and that is fault enough.

!

I.

Sbakefpeare^s Comedy cf Errours,

CU'RTAIN. n.f [cortina, Latin!]
A cloth contrafted or e.vpanded at plea-

nant; mifchievous; malicious; fnarling.

Atfliftion ; torment ; vexation.
how he apes his fire
CurJ! on the tripling
Amhitioufly fententious
Addrfin's Cam.

•

curtail dog, and made me turn i' th' wheel.

CvRsr. adj. froward; peevifli ; m.ilig-

I

2.

1, amazed, ran from her as a witch
and I
;
think if my breaft had not been made of faith, a::d
my heart of ftcrl, (he had transformed me to a

Atttrhury.

CU'RSORY. adj. [from curforius, Latin.]

Curse. »./ [from the verb.]

A dog Lived, or

mutilated according to the foreft laws,
whofe tail is'cut off, and who is therefore
hindered in courfing. Perhaps this word
may be the original of cur.

.ittentiori.

y«^* xvi. 2.

i

"

fee.

Addifon's Sfeaatar.
It has cf before the thing cut off.
The count aHured the courr, that Fact his antagoiiift h.id taken a wrong name, having
curtailed
it of three letters
j for that'his name was not Faf?,
bat Faflion.
Add'n.'

Cu'rtail Dog. n.f.

<

tion.

imprecation of divine

Neither h.ive

2.

without care ; without folicitous attenThis power, and no other, Luth»r dif )wns, as
any one that views the place but curfmly muft needs

or affirm with
vengeance.

1 .

Sh^iefp.IJerryV,

Cu'RiORiLY-a^xi. [from curfory.] Haftily;

to deny

;

they often lofe all but their firft fjliables.

line.
I have but with a curforary eye

Pofc.

To imprecate

To Curse, f. n.

words : and, in familiar writings and converfations,

Cu'rsorary. adj. [from cur/us, Latin.]

.

lVo:dtaard.

Perhaps this humour of fpeaking no more than
we mu<?-, has fo miferably curtailed fome of our

where thofe lands
do lie, and by him is a writ of covenant thereupon
drawn, and ingrolfcd in parchment.
Bacon.

Kumicrs.
After Solyman had looked upan the dead body,
and bitterly curiej the fame, be caufed a great
weight to be tied unto it, and fo caft into the fca.
KnotUs
What, yet again the third time haft thou carfl

me

ftorteii the opportunities of vice.

carried by the cur-

fitor in Ch.mcery for that (Iiire

!<••

S-wiff.

This general employ, and expence of their time,
would as afl'uredly curtail and retrench the ordinary means of knowledge and erudition, as itwould

Then is the recognition and value, figned with

to e.xecrate ; to devote.

;

me thii people

Curjt!

deniifms.

original writs as are required.
They
are a corporation among themfelves.

To CURSE, "v. a, [cufipan, Saxon.]
1 .

Scribblers fend us over their tra(h !n profe and
verfc, with abjminable curtailwgs and 'quaint mo-

Military tliSi.
not dlfcouragci, fuddeiily of
timber and b:)ards raifed up a curtain tvyelve foot
high, at the back of his foldi.er-;.
Knollei.

The governour,

Curtain-lecture, n.f [from curtain
and lecture.] A reproof given by a wife
to her hufband in bed.
Wh.it endleTi

1

r.rwis

by wives are bred

!

The lUrtain'tcBure makes a moui-nful bed.
Drydeni fwvenal.
She ought to exert the autho:ity of the curtainledure, and, if (be findshim of ar^kehious difrcfitinn, to tame him.
Aildifon.

ro C u R T A N . 'u. «. [from the noun. ] To
inclofe or accommodate with curtains'.
I

Now o'er one half the world
Niture feems dead, and wicked drea.ms abufe
Tlie curtain J llecp.
Sbak.jfarr'' s Machctb.
The wand*ring prince <:'d Dido, -^
When with a happy ftorm they were furpri.s'd,
And curtain' d with a counfel-kceping cave. Slai.
3

N

But,

c u s
:

Hh]> ciefe Die carfdnV round wicli vipours bine,
Aid toft befprliilcUd wilb ciirnicriio dew. Pift.

Curtate Dsjiance. n. /. [In aftronomy.]
The dillance of a planet's place from
the fun, reduced to the ecllptick.

Corta'tion. h./. [fromcKWo, to fhorten,
Latin.] The interval between a planet's
diftance from the fun and the curtate

Chambers.

diftance.

Be not as common fools ; if jou arc not,
Stat. Coiieltwi.
Let them have eujbicni by you.
But, ere they lat, ofhcious Baucis lays

Two cu/hiens fturfd with draw, the feat to raife

Cu'sHio.vED. aJj. [from <-tf/^/oa.] Seated
on a culhiou ; fupported by cufnions.

See Cutlass.

have remained inobduiity. Dijfirtatio* ok Partiet.

CUSP. n.f. {cujpis, Latin.] A term ufed

See Courtesy.

c-Fookcd.

Cuhva'tiok. n.f.

{c'tr'vo,

a(\ of bending or crooking.

ednefs ; inflexion ; aunncr of bending.
It is bent alter ihc manner oi the catena: ian
curve, by whi<;h it obtains tKat curvimrc that is
I'atell for the included marrow.

Co'stard.

Holder.

Crooked;

Now may'rs and ihrieves aU hulh'd and latiate

bent ; inflefted ; not ftraight.
Unlefs an intrinfick ptincipls of gravity or atBently.

Any thing bent ; a flexure

Curve, n.f.

Cu'sTODV.

I n fl !

-To CURVE'T. <v. n. [corvettare, Italian.]
I. To leap ; to bound.

To fri/k

;

1.

Knolhs.
Ti>ere is generally but one coin ftampt upon the
occafion, which is made a prefcnt to the perfon
who is celebrated on it : by this means the whole
Addijon.
fam: is in his own cujicdy.
3.

Confining of a crooked line.
The impulie continually draws thr coleftial body
forces

it

French.]

Baton.

Dutch; couffi,:,

A pilluw for the feat

;

a foft

pad placed upon a chair.
Call Claudius, and feme otlicr of my men j
I'Q iiave them Aeep on culhions in my tent.
Hhak.jptjre" i JuHui Cafjr.

oppreflive thrifty fquireSj
people amongll us.

are

the only thriving
S'wift.

Cu'sTOMABLV. ajj. [from cuJlomJ] Common habitual frequent.
Cu'sTOM ABLENEss. ts. f. [itom cujloma*
;

;

hie.]

Frequency ; habit.
Conformity to cullom.
Cu'sTOMABLY. aci-v. [from cujlomaile.'l
According to cullom.
2.

Kingdoms have cuftcmably been carried away by

Habit; habitual pradice.

right of fuccelTion, according to proximity of blood.

H.^y^vard.

Cu'sTOMARILY. ad<ij. [from cujii,mary.'\
Habitually ; commonly.
To call God to witnefs truth, or a lye perhap-r,
or to appeal to him on every trivial occafion, in

2.

common difcourfe, cufiomarily without confidera-

Luke.

to make tliem worihip.

Cotnpofed of crooked lines,
Cu'rvity. ».y; [fromfwru*.] Crooked-

The joined ends of tiiat bone and the incus re.
ecding, make amort acute angle at that joint, and
give a greater rtrvrf)) to (be poftore of the oiricles.
Holder on Speech.

the taxes upon goods imported or e.'^ported are collefled.
Some cujhmbrtdjc officers, birds of paiTage, and

Cuftom, a greater pDvOcr than nature, feldom fails

into a

nefs.

Drydtn.
Strabo tells you, that Britain bore heavy taxes,
efpecially the cujicmi oo the importation of tl)e
Gallick trade.
Arhutinot.

ahcikefpeare's yuHus Cajar.

2.

[kiiffen,

fccurity.

Blood and deftruflion diall be fo in ufe,
That mothers (hall but fmile when they behold
Their infants quarter'd by the hands of war ;
All pity choak'd with cuftom of fell deeds.

Lat.]

CU'SHION. n.f.

Defence; prefervation ;

There was prepared a fleet of thirty fliips for the

1.

curvilinear orbit ; fo that it rauft be repeated c\-cry
Cheyne.
minute of time.

Temple.

fuch a trivial thing,

1

;

from its reflilincar motion, ami

Cuftitns to (leal is

That 'tis their charter to defraud their king.

Shak.

city committed to their cuftody.

CuRvu. i'kear. «<^'. \cur^<us and linea,
1.

ing paid Che cujioms in England.

Cu'sTOM HOUSE, a. /. The houfc whcie

An oftcncc it were, raflily to depart out of the

cuftcdy of the narrow fcas.

;

Bai.:n.

Thofe commodities may be difpcrfed, after hav-

Milton's Paradife Loft.

guardianlhip ; charge.

CUSTOM, n.f [coujlume, French.]

A leap a bound.
A frolick a prank.

goods imported

cuji.ms, butierage, and impofti.

We being ftrangers here, how dar'ft thou truft

to be licentious.

Curve't. n.f. [from the verb.]
2.

reftraint of liberty.

So great a charge from thine own cujiody ?

Dry Jen's JEntid.
z.

Ccweli.
for

The rcfidue of thcfe ordinary finances be cafual
or uncertain, as be tliecfcheats and forfeitures, the

Numb. iii. 36.

unfcafonably.

is

prefcrip-

or exported.

Fife.

[cufodia, Latii).]

?

;

:

may be for a far Ihorter time than

Tribute ; tax paid

7.

Under the cujhdy and charge of the fons of
Merari, (balj be the boards of the ubernacle.

to tliy tongue, I pr'ythce : it curvcu.

^hjkcffcare's .,1s you like it.
Himfcif he on an ca-wig fet.
hack
could get.
Yet fcm-ce he on his
So oft and high hs did curvet.
Drayt. Kymphiii.
Ere he himfelf i..uld fettle.
Seiz'd with unwonted pain, furpris'd with fright.
The wounded deed curveti ; and, rais'd upright,
Ligbtii on his feet before : his hoofs behind
Spring up in air aloft, and laih the wind.

a ed

Care

2.

for tujiom is

prelcription

cujiom.

Pot us enflav'd, is cujicdy fevere,
And ftripcs, and arbitrary punifhment

bend ; to crook ; to infleft.
And the tongue is drawn back and cirveii.

Cry holla!

tion

Th-: council rcmondranced unto queen Elizabeth the confpiracies againft her life, and therefore
they advifed her, that fhe (hould go lefs abroad
weakly attended; but the queen anfwered, Ihc bid
Bacon.
r«ther be dead than put in cujloily.

To

Holdir.

Imprifonment ;

1.

And as you lead it round, in artful curve,
Witlr eye intentivc mark the fprlnging game.
[curvo, Latin.]

n.f.

from prefcripticn ;

particular to this or that man

lay;

Yet eat, in dreams, iht cujlard nf tin: day.

or crookednefs of any particular form.

To CURVE. i>. a.

differs

common to more, and

It is a food much
thickens into a mafs.
ufed in city feafts.
He cramm'd them, till their guts did akc.
With cawdic, cuftard, and plumb cake. Hudibra'..

a^d curvaiure of the'officlc;, to give it a due

may make it detcnfae a curve line about

A

n.f. [cvjjlarti, Welfli.J

kind of fweetmeat made by boiling eggs
with milk and fugar till the whole

Chtfiu's PhihJ'fbkal Pr'mriflf,.
Flactid it wjs beyond the adiivity of the miif-

the attrafting body.

or horns of the
Harris.

leaves of a flower ending in a point.
^uincy.

Cu'rvature. «./ [fromrKr'Tf.] Crook-

Ci;rve. atfj. [cur-vus, Latin.]

points

moon, or other luminary.

\o(tj. [from <ufpis, Lat.]
The Cu'spATED.
Cu'sPiDATt D. J A word expreffing the

Latin.]

tenfion.

exprefs the

to

Cv'rvat^d. «^j. [fori/fl/Mj, Lat.] Bent;

traction

Siiifi.

fin to fit on.

[In law.] A law or right not written,
which, being eilablifhed by long ufe,
and the content of oar anceftors, haj
canbeen, and is daily, praftifed.
not fay that this or that is a cujiom, except we can juftify that it hath continued fo one hundred years ; yet, becaufe that is hard to prove, it is enough
for the proof of a cuJlom, if two or mare
can depofe that they heard their fathers
fay, that it was a caflom all their time ;
and that their fathers heard their fathers
alio fay, that it was likewife a cujhm in
If it is to be proved by
their time.
record, the continui-mce of a hundred
years will ferve.
CuJlom is either general or particular; general, that which
is current through England ; particular,
is that which belongs, to this or that
county ; as gavelkind to Kent, or this
or that lordfhip, city, or town.
CuJlom

We

j

Dryden's FatUs.
Coatfe, but the bed flie had.
An eallern king put a judge to death for an iniquitous fcntcncc i and ordered hishide to beftufted
into a ciijhitn, and placed upon the tribunal, fur the

Many, who are cujaioned upon thrones, wou'i!

Cu'rtelasse
Cu'rtelax.

cl«,

6.

If you are learn'd.

Bat, in her temple's laft reccfs inclos'd,

On Dulntfs" lip th anointcil htad rcposM

Cu'fiTir.

c u s

c u s

Falhion ; common way of ailing.
And the prieft's cuficm with the people was, that
when any man offered facrificc, the prieft's fervant

tiun, is one of the higheft indignities and alFroms

that can be offered him.

Frequency; commonnefs ; frequent oc-

came, while the flerti was in fcething, with a (leihi Sam. ii.
hook of three teeth in his hands.
3. Ellablilhed manner.
According to therii^om of the prieft's office, his
lot was to burn incenfe when he went into the

temple of the Lr-d.

5.

Application from buyers
has good cuftom.

currence.

A

vice which for its guilt may juftify the
(harped, and for its cuftmunr.efi the ftequente((,
inTCftives which can be made againd it.
Go~:erntntrt cftbetongut*

Luke'\.

4. Prafticc of buying of certain perfons.
You fay he is alJiduous in his calling, and is he
not grown rich by it ? Let him have your cuftoni,
j^ddi/cn,
but HOC your votes.
:

asj tin's t racier

Rjy,

Cu'sTOM ARiNESS. n.f {^{lom ciiJloTnary.l

Cu'sTOMARY. adj. [from cujlem.^
I.

Conformable to eftablilhed cullom; according to prcfcriptLon.
Pray you luw, if it may dand witli the tune
of your voices, that I may be cosful : I have here
the cvjlcmat^ go'.ni.

Sbakrfpeare.

Several

CUT

CUT

Sev
everal ingenious^erfons.whofe a.Tiftance might
y,
j
be conducire to the advance of real and ufeful
J
knowledge, lay under the prejudices of educa|
tion and cujlanary belief.
ClativilU't Sctfjis.

To divide packs of cards.

To cut and fliuffle for ourfclvcs.

3.

Wafting his eyes to th' contrary, and falling
A lip of mucli contempt, fpeeds from me. Skali.

9.

To interfeft

;

to

the timber whereof was

To Cut

To Cm T off.

To deftroy;

All Spain was

obfolete.
I marry her!
TVhit, a cufiomtrf Pr'ythec bear
fome charity to my wit ; do not think it fo unwholefome.
Shakejfurt'i Oihsllo.

llo-w:/.
cut him out toextinguilh it.
Every man had cut out a place for himfclt in hii

own thoughts : I could reckon up in our army two
or three lord-trcaforcrs.
Addijont
22. To Cut cut.

Sbakefpeare^ s Mjchetb.

inftrument.

tife,

nor have a genius t ) pen any thing cxaftly

Hoivcl.

RjntC'.

Ircnteus was likewife cut off hy martyrdom.

23.

Addifon.
Ill-fated prince
too negligent of life^
Cut off in the freih ripening prime of mannood.
Even in the pride of life. Pbirips's Dijlrrjl Msibcr.

To refcind

Ainfiuorth.

pret. cut. part. pafT. cut.

[probably from the French couteau, a knife.]
I. To penetrate with an edged inftrument ; to divide any continuity by a
ftiarp edge.
Ah, eui my lace «funder.
That my great he irt may have fome fcope to bear,

Or elfe 1 Iwoon with this dead killing new^.
Shakr/fean's Riciar^ilU.
And when two hearts were join'd by murual love,
The fword of jufticc cuii upon the knot.

Cut

;

to fepa-

Thus much he fpokc, and Mori he wbuld hite
faid.

:

offxhc hopes of future rewards.

2 Chran, ii,

to make by fculpture.
Why fhouM a man, whofe blood is warm within.
;

Sit like his grandfire cut in abbalter ?
Shakeff.
The triumphal is defjced by time 5 but the
plan of it is neatly rut upon the wall of a neighbouring building.
_
Addijon.

Sma/ridgc.

Cw

To
To intercept ; to hinder
off.
from union or return.
The king of this illind, a wife man and a

14.

great w:;rrior, handled the matter ioj as he cut off
their land farces from their (hips.
Baccti.
fo

To Cut off.

To cut off contentions, commilTioners were appointed to make certain the limits.
Hay-ward.

16.

To Cut off.

all

To Cut.

To divide by palling through.

thofe who feek occafion, that they may have where-

Before the wliililing winds the vclle's fly,

of to accufc us.

With rapid f^iftncfs cut the liquid way.

17. To CvT off.

And reach Cereftus at the point o{ day.
Pafct Odyfftj

To pierce with any uneafy fenfatioii.

is

The man was m( to the heart with thcfe confo.
Addifm.

This only objcdl of my real care.
Cut off (tarn hop«, abandon'd ta dcfpair.

to divide

rubbed with hard fubftances, which infants, hy
Arluibnot.

a natural inllin^, affeft.

2.

To perform the operation of lithotomy.
He faved the lives ot tboul'auds by lu» manner

3.

Addifn.

To interfere

:

Fape.

as, a horfe that cuti.

Cut, fart. adj. Prepared for ufe

Rogers.

profelTion of chriftianity.

;

by pairing through.
When the teeth are ready to cut, the upper ^ arr

:

a me-

taphor from hewn timber.

To preclude.

Every one who lives in the prafticc of any voluntary fin, aOually cuii himfelf sjf from the benefits and

rv. n.

To make way by dividing

1.

of cutting for tljc (ti ne.

occa/ion from

'Jo^,

^

This dofirine cuts up all government by the
roots.
LcHe*

To withhold.

We arc concerned to cut off

the

Who cut up mallows by the bu(hc^, and juniperroots for their meat.

To cut off all further mediation and interpofition, the king conjured him to give overall thoughts
of excufe.
Clarendon.
It may compofe our unnatural feuds, and cut
off
frequent occafioni of brutal rage and intemperance.

To abridge: as,

The boar's intemperance, and the note upon
him afterwards, on the cutting him w/», that he had
no brains in his head, may be moralised into a
fcnfual man.
L^Ef range.
28. To Cut /(/.
To eradicate.

To put an end to; to

obviate.

To CvT fhort.

JoUiers -were cut Ihort of their fay.
To divide an 'animal
27. To Cut »/.
into convenient piece?.

Addifon.

Extid. xxxix. 3.

and thus replied,
Drydcn,

26.

C/arendon.

To form any thing by cutting.
And thsy did beat the gold into thin plates and

Dryden's /Encid.
;

My worth, allow'd in words, is in effefl denied.

much inferior to the enemy,

that it would infallibly be .ut off,

15.

Thy (ervants can (kill to ctl timber in Lebanon.

And cut \ntnfh:rt.
AduWes cut Kim fhori

Sbitie/frcare's yurtui Cafar.

Prefume not on thy God, whoe'er he be
Thee he regards not, owns not, hath cut aff
Quite from his people.
AIilnn'sAgoniJlrs.
The propofal of a recompencc from men, cuts

His parly was

To hew.

But the (lem hero turn'd afidc his head.

Sbnkef/Karr't yuTlul Cafar
He that cuts 0^ twenty years of lite,
Cuti off (o many years of fearing death.

Some I have <ui aw*y with fcid'ars.
WijemarCi Surgtry.

To

To (Imt Jhsrt. To hinder from proceeding by fudden interruption.

25.

rate ; to take away.

.

Dryiltn'i Sfamjh Friar.

To debar.

1 am cut out from any thing but common acknowledgments, or common dilcourfc.
FofCm
ea/.
excel ; to outdo.
24. To

!

To Cut 0^

To Cut out.

Fetch the will hither, and we (hall determine

A veflel for holding wine.

To adapt.

You know I am not cut out for writing a trea-

How to cut offiame charge in legacies.

2.

•»««>ns.

Cut

To
out. Tofcheme; to contrive.
Having a moft pernicious fire kindled within tl.-:
very bowels of his own foreft, he had work enough

21.

firft

This great commander was fuddenly cut off by
a fatal ftroke, given him with a fmall contemptible

Cu'sTREL. rt./.

5.

Jud. i. 6.
to extir-

Were I king,

13.

itf

Tcirp'c.

The antiquaries being but indifferent taylors,
they wrangle prodigiourty about the cttit:t:g cut the
A'^utbnot en Czitn,
They have a large fjreft cut cut into Wilks, ttAddijon,
trcmely thick and gloomy.

I ihould cat cffthc nobles for their lands.

—

Montraorancy r;«

toga.

Sjiaifer en Ireland.

This fenfe is now

»t

of the thicknefs of a vine ftock.

conquered by the Romans,
and filled with colonies from them, which were
ftill increafcd, and the native Spaniards Hill cut
cff.

of all ranks for curiofity or amufement.
Sivi/i.
I lliewed yon a piece of black and white fluff,
juft fent from the dyer, which you were pleafcd to
approve of, and be my cujlcmrr for.
Swift.

itint) wires.

£a,cn.

There is a large table

pate ; to put to death untimely.

A

my part, do not like images cut out in

juniper, or other garden tluti": they be forchildret:.

And they caught him, and cut e^bis thumbs.
12.

for

I,

To feparate from the

off.

Sbaktfpsare^ s ffintcr^s^aki

the purity of his.

Addifuns Count Tariff.

.

ri/r

To Cut out. To fliape ; to form.
By the pattern of mine own thoughts 1 cut Out

is

other paits by cutting.

Thofe papers are grown a neceflary part in cof
ftehoufe furniture, and may be read by cuftctiieis

4.

20.

Knolhi.

to over-

trived argument, as foon as ever he gets himfelf to

11.

to ab-

;

No vowel can be cut e^ before another, when wc
cannot fink tht; pronunciation of it.
Diyd^n.

in the

his natural eloquence, that he cuti
dvzvn the lineli orator, and deftroys the beft con-

for the fake of purchafing.
One would think it Overdone's houfe; for here
be many old cujimert.
Sbai/f. Mtaj. for Meaf.
wealthy poet ukes more pains to hire
flattering audience, than poor tradefmen do
To peiTuade cujt'.mirs to buy their goods. Rtfcom.
Lord Strut hat befpoke his liveries at Lewis
Baboon's ihop : Don't you fee how that old fox
fteals away your cufiomers, and turns you out of
your bufinefs every day ?
Arbuttnot,

6.

cut dcian

To Cu T Joiun. To excel 5
power a low phrafe.

be heard.

To apoftrophife

breviate.

:

Cu'sTOMER. n. /. [from cufiom.]
1. One who frequents any place of fale

To carve

To Cut off.

19.

to hew down.

mountains of Cil'cia.

So great

Shakejpesrf i King ycbn.

3.

Bacon,

one line

as,

I o.

E jt they will pluck awly its nat'ral caufc.
And call them meteors, prodigies, and figns.

2.

crofs :

To Cut dinun. To fell ;
.\\\

No nat'ral exhalation in the /ky.
No common wind, no cuf.smtd event,

A buckler-bearer.

judge to ihcw quickn^-fs of

conceit in cutting 0^ evidence or counfel too (Sort.

cuts another at right angles.

tomed.

1 .

To interrupt; to fil^tlc'if.^

to a

GranvVh.

Cu'sTOMED. /?^'. [from f »/?(!«.] Ufual
common ; that to wMch we are accuf-

And fevers 'cm for ever.

It is no grace

Who cuts or Ihumes with our dirty leaving.

wonted.
Ev'n now I met him
With cvfl'-mlry compliment, when he.

To CUT.

To CvT off.

18.

Frhr,

Take a frefli pack, nor is it worth our grieving,

Tilhtjm.

A common woman.

i*

Ourfelves both cur and (huifled them.

3. tJlual ;

2.

from partaking in the general benefits of law,, or of
Sirff't,
nature

Ftijt.

We fure in vain the cards condemn,

of God's name, by curfing, or cujiomary fwearing
and take heed of the negleft of his worfliip, or an

Fr'ar.

the vrothi,

Why (hould thofe »)ho Wait at altars be cut off

And frankly leave us, human elves,

We fliouM avoid the profane and irreverent ufe

A

In fome few poAing, fatal lionrs l« hurl'd
From wealth, ftoiWjibWr', froirt lovir, inJ ftom

Supine they in their heav'n remain.
Exempt from paSion and from pain ;

«. Habitual.

thing belonging to it.

q u T

Sets of phrafe ,

w and dry,

Evermore thy tongue fippiy.
Cut. Tt.f. [from the noun.]
1 .

Siicift.

The action of a (harp or edged inftru/.
ment ;

the blow of an ax or fword.
3

N

Tae.

CUT

C U T

C U 1^

The impreffion or reparation of continuity^ made by an edge or (harp inftrument: diftingoilhed from that made by
'perforation with a pointed inftrument.
would made by cutting.
3,

tcnfcience leliete the fleeve of it to be of thrtiut

Of two hit cullafi launcb'd the fpouting blood,

Roman cut.

Thefe ^uarter'd, fing'd, and fix'd un forks of wood.

Shiip weapon-, according to' the force, cut into
t^eboue many ways; which nts are called Jctics,

neweft cut for my daughter ?
Arhulknci^i Hifiary offohn Bull.

2.

jidd'jjn.

•

Pofe.

Sometimes an old fellow fliall wear this or that

Cu'tler. n.f. [couielier, French.] One
who makes or fells knives.

fort of cut in his clothes with great integrity.

'

^ddijiffi Spcffjtar.

A

ancLare reckoned among the ftafiurrs.
'

4.

"

fyifanarCi Surgery.

A tihanne! made by art.

'

Wilt thiu buy there fome high heads of the

'

'{thas, purpofcd t!» havL* made a great deal wider and

dicper, and thereby to have kt th« Red Sc:» into
Km.lts,
the AUditerrancan.

cheat, in low language.
Send her money, knight: if thou hafljiernot in
the end, call mcra;. Staiiffrare's I'-wrlfth Night.

Mcrtimet'i liujbattdrj.

A fmall particle

6.

It bach a

;

Cu'tpurse. n. /. [cut uni fter/e.] One
who deals by the method of cutting
purfes
a common practice when men
:

Ay, that I will, come cut ar.d hrg tail, under the
Skak. Merry Wh'Cs tflVindfcr.
degree of a fquire.

wore their purfes at their girdles, as
was once the cufiom. A thief; arobber.

•

At quintin he.

a Ihred.

number of (hort tvtt or flireddin^,
'HcAer.

A lot made by cutting a flick.

'

My laiiy Zslmanc and my daughter Mopfa may
'

Clarendon.

It is bor-

rowed from dogs.
He will maintain you like a gentlewoman.

which may be better ca'.led wiflits than pravcrs.
7.

A proverbial ex-

preflioD for men of all kinds.

A pan cut ofFfrom the reft.
Suppofe a board to be ten foot long, and one
broad, one cm is leckoned fo many foot.

Cut and long tail.

14.

Sidney.
draw cut!, and the ihorteft cut fpeak firft.
A man may as realonably draw rxri for his
tenets, and regulate his perfuafion by the caft of
Luke.
» di'. ^"-^

In honour of this bridaltee.
Hath challcng'd cither wide Tountee:
Come cut and iorg.tait^ ft>r there be

To have an open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble
hand, is oeceil'ary tot a cutftlrfe.
;

Six bachelors as bold as he.

A
A eutpurfe of the empire and the rnle,

Cuta'neoi.!.

Stjkejpcan'sfyinti.r's Tale.
vice of Icings,

Ben ycvfons Umler^oood.
adj. [Tiom cutis, Latin.]

That from a (lielf the precious diadem ftile.

And put it in his pocket.
Staktfftare't Hamlet,
Was there no felony, no bawd,

Relating to the (kin.

,

This

icrv>us, nutritious

ceous fubftances.

Cu'ticle. n.f.

and councils, tbej have taken another and a fliort'^r

i .

Ssuth.

There is a (hotter cut, an eafier paffage.
Dfcay of Piety.
The evidence of my fenfe is fimpK- and immediate, and therefore I have but a fliortfr cut thereby
to the alTenttothe truth of the things fo evidenced.

HaW

Or'tgit of Mjtthitid

But the gentleman w.)uld needs

my

v/ay,

fee

ine part of

and ?arry roe a (hort cut chrough his own

ground, which favcd me half a mile's ridi-ij.
Swift'l Kxamimr.

9.

parts of

A pliflure cut or carved upon a ftanip
of wood or copper, and imprefled from

jiibutbtioi.

,

ind i-itlead of their cutting their way to^t
thti'.iji the :ciiowIedge of thu tongues, ttie faticis,

i

more readily

Floyer en Humours,
So.Tie lorM of cutaneous eruptions are occafioncd
by fccdTpg much.on'acid utiripe fruits and farina-

The 5gn 'rjnt't'.ok hrart to enter upon this gri;at

cut.

is

remoteft

the body.

cut off.
calliiiii,

mafs

circulated ir.to the cutaneous or

A near paffage, by which feme angle is

8.

The firft and outerraoft covering of the
body, commonly called the fcarf (kin.
This is that foft (kin which rifes in a
blifter upon any burning, or the appliIt (licks
cation of a blillering plaifter.
clofe to the furface of the true (kin, to
which it is alfo tied by the vc{rels which
nourl(h it, though they are fo fmall as
When the fcarf-(kin is
not to be feen.
examined with a microfcope, it appears
to be made up of feveral lays of exceed^incy.
ing fmall fcales.
gri(He>, and ligaments a.id membranes, and muf-

In tlus form, according to his defcription, he is
fet t jrth in the prints or cuts of martyrs by Ccval-

It is, 1

and tendons, and nerves and
veins and fkin, and cj<ritVrand nail.
cles

Brown.
believe, ufed improperly by

Madam Oacler, from fomeold cult of Tcrencr,
fancies that the larva or perfmi of the Rjmai
adors was iiot only a vizard for the face, but had

yUdifn on Italy.
10. The ftamp on which a pifture is carved, and by which it is impreiTed.
11. The aft or praftice of dividing a pack
falfc hair to It.

of cards.

H 5W can the mufe her aid impart,
Unlkill'd in all the terms of art?

Or in harminious numbers put
The deal, the (huffl:, and the cut ?
Swift.
rt. Fafhion ; form ; ihape ; manner of
cutting into (hape.
Their clothes arc after fuch a Pagan cut too.
That, fure, they '« worn oiitChriftendom.
Sbakifpearet Hrnry Vill.
His tawny beard was th* equal gra4:e

Both of his wifio'.n and his face;
In cut and dye f 1 like a tilr,
A fudden view it would beijuiie.

Huditrm.

Th?y w-r: (j familiatly acquainted with him, as
SidUngfliei.
to know tlw vciy rut of his beard.
ChiUrenlove bivechea, not fortbcirra/ or cafe,
but b cav^fe the having ihem is a maik 01 Hep toLockt.
.^wardi manh-Jod.
third defirej yoo to obferve well the toga on
whether you can in
f.,cfa a rererft, and aSkt

A

J^

and

A thin (kin formed on
any liquor.
When any faline liquor is evaporated to cuiicit,

the furface of

and

let cool,

the fait concretes in regular figures:

which argues that the particles of the fait, before
they amcrrted, lioatcd in the liquor at equal diftanccs ill rank and file.

Nc^iiton's lil>t:cks.

CvTi'cuLAR. adj. [from cutis, Latin.]
Belonging to the (kin.
So
fignifies krwwledge or (kill.
Cui/j-.L-in is a kiowing conqueror; Cuth-

Ct'TH,
red,

a

knowing

counfellor ;

of thieves ?

Bintley's Sertnor.s.

I.

An agent or indrument that cuts any
thing.

1.
3.

A nimble boat that cuts the water.
\_Inci/ores.'\

The

teeth

that

Cuthberi,

famous for (kill. Much of the fame na
ture are Sophocles and Sophianus.
Giifon's Camden.

Cu'tlass. n.f. [coutelas, French. This
word is written fometimes cutlace, fometimes cuttkax; in Shakefpeare, curtleaxe;
and in Pope, cutlaf!}.'] A broad cutting

fword : the word is much in ufe among
the feamen.
Were 't not better
That I did fuit me ail points like a man ^

A gallant curtleaxe upon ray thigh,
A boat Ipcjrin my hand. Skaiefp. As you like
To the ludgments of his herd he run,
Where tlte fat porIcct> llept bci\cath the fun

cut the

meat.
The mclares, or grhidets, are

behind, neareft
becaufe there is a greater
rtrcngth or force required to chew the meat than
to bite a piece ; and the cutters befve, that they
may be ready to cut of}' a morfcl from any fotid
food, to be tranfmittcd to the grinders.
Rjiy on the Creation*
the centre

4.

of motion,

An officer in the Exchequer that provides wood for the tallies, and cuts the
fum paid upon them
and then calls
the fame into the court to be written
;

upon.

Hentley^s Sermons.

z.

Au'atjon.

arteries,

Cutpurfe, nor burglary abroad ?
Hadiirat*
If we could imagine a whole nation to be carf.
purfes and robbers, would there then be kept that
fquare dealing and equity in fuch- a monftrous den

Cu'tter. n.f. [from «/.]

[cuticula, Latin.]

In each of the very fingers there arc bones and

it.

lerius.

That (he did give, whofe poeiy was
For all the world like cutters poetry
Upon a knife ; love me, and leave me not. Sbak.
In a bye cutler's fliop he bought a tenpenny
knife : fo cheap was the inilrumcnt of this.(reat
attempt.
fftMan.
He chofe no other indrument than an ordinaiy
knife, which he bought of a common cuilrr.

13. It feerns anciently to have fignified a
To cut .ftiU fignifiw to
fool or cully.

This grrot«l or di:ch Seloftris the. rich king of
Ijypt, End lortg after him Ptolomrus Philadcl-

5.

A paullry ring
'

Ct/IVtll.

CuT-THROAT. v.f. [ctit and tbioat.] A
ruffian ; a murderer ;

a butcher of men ;

an alFadin.
Will jou then fuffer thefe robbers, cul-lhroalt,
gathered out of all the corners of

bafc pc'jple,

ChriOendom, to wafte your countries, fpoil your
cities, murder your people, and trouble all your
KkoI/m.

feaj ?

Perhaps the cut-ihrc^l may rather take his copy
from the Pariliaa malT.icre, one of the horridclt
inOances of barbarous inhumanity that ever was.

known.

South.

The ruflian robbers by no juftice aw'd,
And unpaid cut'ttroat foldierj:, are abroad ;
Thiife venal fouU, who, harden'd in c;u;h ill^

To fave complaints and profccutivn, kill.
DiydetCs fuvcnaU

Cu't-throat. adj.

Cruel; inhuman;

barbarous.
If to take abive fifty in the hundred be extremity, this in truth caa be none other than caftlnat and abominable dealing,
Cirvi-js Survey of CormvalU

Cu'tting. n. /. [from cut.]

A piece

cut off; a chop.

The burning of the cuttings of vines, and cading
them upon land, doth much good.
Bjcon^s Natural Hijiory,

it

Many are propagated above ground by flips or
cultingi.

Ray.

'

4

CU'TTLE.

C Y N

C Z A

The quantity of water which every revolution
docs cany, according to any inclination of the ryfyUklns*
linder, may be eafiiy found.

Without thefe precautions the man degenerates
into a cynick, the woman into a coquette j the

C Y L
CU'TTLE. ». /. [/efia.] A fifli, which
when he is purfued by a fifh of prey,
throws out a blark liquor, by which he
darkens the water and efcapes.
red

of compartments, bafes, peddlals, plots, and buildings ; your cylinder, for vaulted turrets, and round
buildings*
Peacham.

colour, and only the blood of the cuttle fliould be
Bacon,
»s black as ink.
He that ufcs many words for the explaining any

Cyli'ndrical, T fl.^'. [from cylinder.'\
Cyli'ndrick. J Partaking of the na-

It

birds,

"n

fomcwhat ftrange, that the blood of all

and bfafts, and

fubjeft, doth,

fiflies,

be of a

{Iiould

like the cuttle filh, hide himfelf for

Ray or. the Crcatior,

the moft pare in his own ink.

Cu'ttle. n. f. [from

A foul-

cuttle.^

a fellow who blackens

mouthed fellow ;

Hanmcr.

the character of others.
Away, yi;u cutpurlc rafcal ; you

bung,

filthy

away: by this wine V\\ thruft my knife in your
mouldy chaps, if you play the fancy cuttie with
Shiikcfpeare^x Henry IV.
me,
Cv'ci-E. n. /. [Jycltts, Latin J xi/xA©-.]
I.

A circle.

z.

A round of time

3,

A method, or account of a method,
continued

the

till

fame courfe begins

again.

We thought we Hiould not attempt an unaccepif here wc endeavoured to prefent our
gardeners with a complete cycle of what is requifitc
to be done tlirougbout every month of the year.
Evelfn^s Kalendar,
table work,

4. Imaginary orbs ;

a circle in the heavens.

Cycle and epicycle, orb in orb !

».

/.

ATilton.

[from

xv»Uuir,<i,

of

Kixh^, and I'l'J'©', Ihape.] A geometrical curve, of which the genefis may
be conceived by imagining a nail in the
the line
circumference of a wheel
which the nail defcribes in the air, while
the wheel revolves in a tight line, is the
:

cycloid.

Minora ferri llslaftitia, when feveral of therylindrick ftri;e arc contiguous, and grow together

ac/j.

[from

to a cycloid ;

cycloii/.']

as

Re-

the cycloidal

the fp.ice contained between
the cycloid and its fubllance. Chambers.
is

Cyclop/t. di'a. n./. [xuK^S-andTraioiia.]
circle of knowledge ; a courfe of the

A

ftar

near the north pole, by which fail-

ors (leer.
Towers and battlements it fees
Bofon.'d high in tufted trees,

Where perhaps fome beaaty lies.
The cyn'.jure of neighbouring eyes.
Cy'on. See Cion.
^

Obftructions mud be moll incident to fuch pans
of the body where the circulation and the clallick
fibrx;s are both fmallcd, and thole glands, which
aie the extremities of arteries formed into cylindrical canals.
Arbuthnot on AlinKr.ti,

Gather cyons forgraffs before the buds fprout.

[properly written Jimar.']

Cy'press-tree. n.f. [cuprejjus, Latin.]

The cyprefs is a tall ftraight tree, pro-

I.

duced with great difficulty. Its fruit is
of no ufe ; its leaves are hitter, and the
very fmell and ihade of it are dangerous.
Hence the Romans looked upon it to be

A flight covering; a fcarf.

a fatal tree, and made ufe of it at fune-

Her comely limbs ccmpos'd with decent care.
Her body ih:\dcd with a flight cymarj
Her bof tm to the view was only bare.
Drydcn.

rals,

CTMA'TIUM. n.f. [Lat. from xvua.Ttov, a
wave.] A member of architedlure,
whereof one half is convex, and the other
concave.
There are two forts, of which
one is hollow below, as the other is
above.
Harris.
little

acornice, the gola, or ^^m^riumof the corona,
the coping, the modillions, or dentelli, make a
noble Ihow by their graceful projcftions. SpeHator,
lt\

Cy'mbal. a. /. [cymbalum, Lat.] A mufical

and in mournful ceremonies. The
always green, and never
Calmet..
either rots or is worm-eaten.

cyprefs-tree is

In ivory coffers I have ftuft'd my crowns;
In cyprtfs cherts my arras counterpanes.
Skahfpiarr,
He taketh the cyprefs and the oak, which he
ftrcngtheneth for himfelf among the trees of the
Jj. xliv. 14.
Poplars and alders ever quivering play'd.
And nodding cyprejs form'd a fragrant (hade.
Pope's Odyjfcy.

forcft.

2.-

Being anciently ufed in funerals,
emblem of mourning.
Poifon be their drink.

Sbakejf rarest driolanui.
If mirth (hould fail, I'll bufy her with cares,
Silence her clamorous voice with louder wars
Trumpets and drums fliall fright her from the
throne.

As founding cymiaU aid the hb'ring moon.
Drydent Auiengxelc.
a'kthropy. n. /. [xtij KDs^, and
aiS^iT'^. ]
fpecies of madnefs in

Their fweeteH (hade a grove of cyprefs trees.

A

which men have the qualities of dogs.

A word coined by Butler, to denote bear-baiting v/ith a dog.
That Ibme occult dcfign doth he
In bloody cynat^'^ntacky.

enough to him tliat knows

^

How faints lead brothers by the nofc. lludibras.

CyNEGe'tICKS. «. /. [r.'juyr.Tma..]

The

art of hunting ;

Cy'nick.

Shakefpeare' 1 King 'John.
So doth the fwan her downy cygmit favc.

Keeping them pris'ners underneath her wings.
Shakeffearyr Herry VI.
Cygnett, from grey, turn white.
Bacon I Natural Hijhry.
Young cygncti arc good meat, if fatted with
oats ; but, ted with weeds, they taftc filhy.
Morthncr't Hufbandry.

A body
having two flat furfaces and one circular.

cyprefs, as being ufed in

qualities of a dog; cur3
brutal ; fnarling ; fatirical.
He doth believe that fome new-fangled wit (it
is his cymVj/'phrafe) will fome time or oilier find
out his art.
Wdkim.
Cy'nick. n.f. [xiJirix'©-.]
philofopher
of the fnarling or currilh fort; a folrilh ;

A

lower of Diogenes ; a rude man; afnarler ;

a milanthrope.

How vilely doth this cynick ;himc !—
Get }ou hence, firrah; faucy fellow, heoce. Skak.

mourning.]

A

thin tranfparent black ilufF.
Lffiwn as white as driven fnow,
Cyprus black as e'er was crow.

Shakefpeare's lf')itter''s Tele,

A Cyprus, not a boiom.
Hides my poor heart

Cy N ARCTo'm ACHY. [xfi;», a^ro'?, f/.a- CYST.

Who chaunts a doleful hymn to his own death.

Cy'cNET. n. /. [from cycnus, Latin.] A

Shakefpeare's Htrry VIv

Cy'prus. n.f. [I fuppofe from the place
where it was made ; or corruptly from

Cym

Is plain

it i*

the

infirument.

The trump'^ts, fackbiits, pfalteries and fifes,

young fwan.
I am chu: cygnet to this pale faint fwan.

fciences.

MiUon^

Kvdyn.

Pf'oodiujrd'i Natural Hi/lory.

the art of training and
hunting with dogs.
There are extanr, in Greek, fiur bioks of
Brcwn^t yul^tr E.rrottrs.
cyneiiticks, or venition.
Cy'nical. Xa/ij- ['-i'fix®'.] Having the

CY'LINDER. «. f. [Ki>.»i^».]

Cy'nosure. a.y; [from xiJj®' of^a.] The

into, one Ihcaf, is callej brulhiron ore.

X^]

Cyclo'idal.
lating

a cylinder.

M ike the lun dance.

With ccntcick and ezcentrick, fcribbled o'er

CV'CLOID.

having the form of

man grows fullen and morofe, the woman imper/Iddijon.
tinenuand fantafticil.

Talnrs and cymbals, and the/houtipg Ronmns,

How build, unbuild, contrive
To favc appearanc^i how gird the fphere

fpace,

ture of a cylinder;

Cyma'r. ». /.

a fpace in which the
fame revolutions begin again ; a periodical fpace of time.
We do mor« commonly ofe thefe words, fo as
;

to ftile a ielTcr fpacp a tyclct and a greater by the
Dame of period ; and you may not improperly call
the beginning of a large peiiod the epocha thereof.
Holder on Titr;e,

*

The fquarewUI make you ready for all manner

7 »./

CY'STIS. j

Sbjiefpcare,

!

[xDrn.]

A bag contain-

ing fome morbid matter.

In taking it out, the cyflis broke, and (hewe*
ilfelf by i:s matter to be a meliceris.
IVifcman's Surgery.
There may be a confumption, with a purulent
fpittinj^, when the vomica is containfd in a cyji or
bag ; upon tiic breaking of which the patient is
Arluihmt on Diet.
conwnonly fuffocatei.

Cy'stick. adj. [from cyfl, a bag.] Contained in a bag.

The bile is of two fortr the cyjiic*, or that
contained in the gall- bladder, a Ibrt of rcpnfitory
for t!ie pail j or thr hcpatick, or what flaws imArbuihr.ot,
mediately from the liver.
:

Cysto'tomy. n.f. [xuri; and rij/.toi.'l The
aft or pr'adlice of opening intyfled

tii-

orcuttlng the bag in which any
morbid matter is contained.
CZAR. «. [a Sclavonian word, wiitten
more properly tzar.'\ The title of the
empcrour of Ruflia.
Czari'na. ff. / [from CKnr.'\ Tlie ttotprefs of Ruflia»
.Tiours,

/

D.

D.

Dls

a confonont nearly approaching in found lo T, but formed
^ by a ftronger appulfe of the
tongue to the upper part of the mouth.
The found of D in Englifi) is uniform,
and it is never mute.
CAPO. [Ital.] A term in mufick,
which fignifj'ing from the head or the
beginning, means that the firft part of
the tune Ihould be repeated at the con-

DA

2.

\dauher, Fr.]

againll him for difaffe£tion.

with

fine

And his comrades, that daft the world alide.
And bid it pafs.
Sbakt/ptarc't Henry IV.
I would (he had beltow'd thit dotage on me
I
:

half myfelf.

Sbake/feare,

Dag. n.f. [dague, French.]

Wahon.

1.

2.

A dagger.
A handgun; a piflol

:

fo called

from

ferving the purpofes of a dagger, being
carried fecretly, and doing mifchieffuddenly.
It is in neither fenfe nowufed.

poetical foot confifting of one long fyllable and two ftiort, like the joints of a

A fmall lump of any thing.
A blow with fomething moid or foft.

1.

to throw away flightly. Not now in ufc.
The nimble-footed mad-cap prince of Wales,

would have daft all other refpefts, and made her

Da'ctyle. n.f. \}a.)iTv>.'><;, a finger.] A

Dab. n.f. [from the verb.]

DrydtT.,

fratll.

To Daft. i», a, [contrafted from do aft ;
that is, to lhro<w back, to thro^ cff.'\ To
tofs afide ; to piit away with contempt

:

Let me live harmlefsly, and near the brink
Of Trent or Avon have a dwelling place 4
Where I may fee my quill or cork down fink
With eager bite of pearch, or bleak, or dace.

Sharp.

lint.

The ftcrt rarcifluj, and fair daftdd.
Fancies to pieafe the (ight, and caltia fweet to

[of uncertain derivation in
moll provinces called dare. Leucifcus.']
A fmall river USh, refembling a roach,
but lefs.

gently with fomething foft or moid.

A fore fliould never be wiped by drawing a

Sioi/i.

Dace. »./•

To ftrike

piete of tow or rag over it, but only by dabbing il

One that meddles without maflery
one that never goes to the bottom of an
affair ; a fuperficial meddler.
He dares rot complain of the tooth-ach, left
our dabbltrs in politicks (hould be ready to fwcar

clufion.

To DAB. v. a.

DAG

DAP

DAB

finger ; as candtdus.

To DaCv. a. [from daggle."] To daggle ;
Dad.
7 n. /. [The child's way of exto bemire ; to kt fall in the water
a
3. Something moid or fliniy thrown upon Da'ddy.
pref[\ng /atber. It is remarkj
2.

:

one.
4. [In low language.] An artift ; a man
This is not nfed
e.tpert at fomething.
in writing.
5. A kind of fmall flat fi(h.

able, that, in all parts of the world, the

word for father, as firft taught to children, is compounded of a and /, or the

1

called likewife Dobchuk, and Didapper,
Ray.
Colymbui.

-o.

to fpatter j to be-

fprinkle ; to wet.

A fiiadow like an angt, with bright hair
Shat^ffeare's RictardiJl.
and dabbltd the wound with oil of

Dabbled \n blnod.
1

fcarifiuJ,

fViJanan's Surge-y.

turpentine.

Mean white tlie South, riHng with dubbUd wings,

A

f.ibic

cloud athwart the welkin flings.

Hwifi.

7e Da'bble. t. n.
I.

To pLiy in water ; to move in water
or mud.
Neither will a

fpirir,

that dwells with (lars,
ClamiilU'i Ai^tl.

dMk in this impurcr mud.

The little one complained of her let;') th*t (he
could neither fwim nnr dabllt with them. L'EJIr.
But when he f -.und the b lys at play.

2.

And faw them diibblm^ in thefr clay.
He Itood behind a (tall to lurk.
And mark the prourels of their work. Swi/l.
To do any thing In a flight, fuper£cial,
or fliallow manner ; to camper.

Shakcfpeurc Ihall be put into your hands, as
clear and a> fair as it came out of them : though
you, 1 thiuk, have been dabbling here and there
witb the text, 1 have had more rcvcience for the
writer and the printer, and left every thing landing.

yiltttriury ti ¥opt.

'

Da'bbler.
f. [ from dabble.
1. One th&t pLiys in water.
ft.

;

'

He ftrikcs himfclf with h\% dagger
!

DuE'DAL. adj. [dredalus, Latin.]
Various; variegated.
Skilful : this is not the true meani:ig,

nor fhould be imitated.
Nor hath
The dadal hand of Nature only pour'd
Her gifts of outward grace.
PbiJipi.
Da'i'fodil.
In. /. [Suppofed
Daffodi'llv.
S hy Siinner KQ he
Dafkodowndi'lly. J corrupted from
aJpbodeJus.']

This plant hath a lily-flower, confilting of one
leaf, which is bell-lhaped, and cut into fix fegmcnts, which incircle its middle like a crown
but the cmpalomcnt, which commonly lifes out of
;

membranous vagina,

oblong or
roundifli fruit, which is triangular, and gapes in
thice parts ; is divided into three cells, and full of
turr\<

but being

2.

A

[In fencing fchools.]
blunt blade of
iron with a bafket hilt, ufed for defence.

[With printers.] The obelus; a mark
of reference in form of a dagger ; as

3.

[t]-

I.

z.

a

\

interrupted by one of his friends, he (labs him,
and breaks the dagger on one of hi? ribs, jiddiftin.

Gay.

1/. a. To hold up by a leading firing.
The little children when they learn to go,
By painful mothers daJed to and iro.
Drayton.

{Jabbclen, Dutch.]

a.

to daub ;

Sidniy,

This fword a dagger had his page.
That was but little for his age
And therefore waited on him fo
As dwarfs upon knights-errant do. Hudibras.

was never fo bethumpt with words.

To DADE.

Piifr.

;

She fan to her fon's dagger, and (truck berfelf
a mortal wound.

Greek ; atta. Go-

His loving mother left him to my care j
Fine child, as like his dad as he cou!d ftare

,

To fmear

aria,

Since firll 1 call'd my brother's father dad. Shak.

and Dipchick,

Te DA'BBLE.

Welih^

thick ; lata, Latin.] Father.

Care^i'.

a fmall water fowl,

A Jab-cl/uk waddles through the copfe
On feet and \ying5 and flics, and wades, and hops.

DA'GGER. n.f [dague, French.]
1. A (hortfword; a poniard.

kindred letter d, differently placed ; as
tad,

Of flat fi(h there are rays, flowks, i/«i», plaice.

Da'b-chick. «. yl

low word.

to an

roundi(h (reds.

Milltr.

Srrew me the green ground with dajfcdmvndiliifs,
And cowdips, arid king-cups, and Ijved lilies.
aptn/tr.

Bid amaranthus all his beauty (hcd,

And daffodillHs (ill their cups with tears,
To drew the laureat herfe where Lycid lies.
Milton.

The daughters of the flood have fcarch'd the
mead
For violets pale, and cropp'd the poppy's head :

Da CGERSDRAWING. ti.f. [dagger and
The aft of drawing daggers ;
approach to open violence.

draiv.]

Tlicy always are at daggc-fdratving,

And one another clapperclawing,

Hudibras,
have heard of a cjuarrel in a tavern, where all
were at daggtrfdraicing, till one dcfired to know
the fubjcfl of the quarrel.
Stvift,
I

To DA'GGLE.

-v. a, [from dag, dew;
a word, according to Mr. Lye, derived
from the Danifli ; according to Skinner,
from b.ij, fprinkled, or bea^an, to dip.
They are probably all of the fame root.]
To dip negligently in mire or water ;
to bemire ; to befprinkle.
To Da'c. GLE. -v. n. To be in the mire;

to run through wet or dirt.
Nor like a puppy, daggled through the town.
To fetch and carry ling- long up and down, ftft,

Da'ccledtail. n.f.

[daggle and tail.']
Bemired ; dipped in the water or mud ;

befpattered.

The gentlemen of wit and pleafure are apt to
be choaked at the fight of fo many daggkdtail parfons, that happen to fall in their way.

S-wif!,

DAILY.

ing every day, or very frequently
done every day ; quotidian.

1.

A man with wliom I converfed almoft Jai/y for
Elegantly; delicately.
Trudi is a naked and open day-light, that dot)i
triumphs
not fl»tw tht majk* and onunineTiss and
uf the world, ha)f (o (lately and dtiftUy as candlelight.

Why, that's my dainty; I (hall mifs thee

milk.
I.

z.

Sleeked ilrabs and ficeft blood ?

2.

1

In hafte came rulhing forth from inner LowVi.^
Fairy ^-'^ff,

Tbatbower, not myftick, where the fapient king
Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian fpoufe.
Miltsjt.

Thou clalm'i^ me for tKy fire,
And ray fair fon here fhow'lt me, the dear pleilge
O't dalHanct had

Delay

Bn Janfon.

and foot, and the evl iu the fine Ihape of his
fyition.
hands.
3. Delicacy ; delicioufnefs.

more notorious for the daintinefs of the

provifion which he fcrvcd in it, than for the mafliHak:m!'di on Prenjid-.nre.
nefi of the dirtt.

4. Squcainiflinefs ; faftidioufnefs.
Oi tnd, and lime, and clay, Vitruvlus hath
ff^cltat.
dif'^ouried without any daiittinffu
r. Ceremonioufnefs ; fcrupulofity.

DA'INTY. adj. [derived by Ski/t/tifr from
an old French word for delicale ;
which yet I caanot find in diftionaries.]
1. PleafiDg to the palate; of exquiCte
diiit,

3.

!

Higher concoSion is required for fwectnefs, or
all your diiniy
Bacon.

2. Delicate ; of acute fenfibility ; nice ;
fqueamilli ; foft ; luxurious ; tender.
This is the floweft, yet the dainiitfl fenfc ;
For ev'n the ears of fuch as have no (kill
Perceive a difcord, and conceive offence
And knowing no: what '« good, yet find the ill.
Da'uifi.

They were a fine and dainty people; frugal and
Bacon.
yet elegant, though not military.
3. Scrupulous ;

ceremonious.
Which of yr>u all

Therefore to horfc ;
And let us not be dainty of leave-taking.
Sbalcjfrare^s Mjcbelh.
But (hift away.

4. Elegant ;

tenderly, languilhingly, or

effeminately beautiful.

My houfe, within the city,
Is richly furnifhed with plate and gold,
Bafons and ewers to lave her dainty hands.

Stall.

Vihy ftiould ye be fo cruel to yourfelf.

And to ihofe dainty limbS} which nature lent
Miltim.
For gentle ulage an^ fott delicacy ?
ftne : in contempt.
5. Nice ; aiFededly
Your dawty fpcakcrs have the curfei
Priir.
To plead bad caufu down to worfc.

A trifter ;

oiilch cattle are kept.

ylfiharftm

Dairies, being well houttAived, are exceeding

commodious.

Bifcon,

Children, in rfatVycountiic., ill wax ma.-e call than
where they f'ecd more upon uread and ilefli. Bacon.

D.\ IRYMAID. »./ [dair/znd fijaid.'\ The
woman fervant whofe bufmefs is to manage the milk.

The pooreft of the fex have fill an itch
To know their fortunes, equal to the rich
The ^inmji^ enquires if Ihc (hall take
The trulty taylor, and the cook forfakc. Drydcn.

Da'llop. n,/, [of unknown etymology.]
A tuft, or clump not in ufe.
:

Of bifley the fine

fujfer^

To DA'LLY.

day's eye,

:

ncf3 to dally any longer,

for there is

;

Swift*

to play the wan-

He 13 nnt toiling on a lewd love bed.
But on his knees at mt:ditacion j
Not da'lying with a brace of courtezans.
3.

But meditating with two deep divines. Sbakcfpeare*
To fport ; to play ; to frolick.
She her airie hu'il.d.-th in the cediir'a top,

This will find thee picking of daijses, or fmell-

And dai/ies with the wind, and fcorns the fun,
Shakef^eare*

4.

To delay.
They that would not be reformed by that corredtion, wherein he djllicd with them, /hall feci a
judgment worthy of God.

H^ijdotn, xli.

26.

To Da'llv. ^, a. Toputolf; to delay ;
to amufe till a proper opportunity.
He fct down to perform feivicc, not by the
hazard of one fet b<tLtlf, but by dallying olT' the
time with often fkirmi/h'S.
Knolla's Bijlr.ry,

Dam. n, /, [from

Before the downfall of the fairy (late.

This dale^ pleafing region, not unbleft.
This dale poffcls'd they, and had ftill polTefs'd.
7ichell.

He ftcii! along the lonely dali.

no dallying with hunger.

To exchange careffes
ton ; to fondle.

Shakcfpeare.

As he patTed, the woods put forth their blof-

Long toft with ftorms, andbcatwithbittetwinds,
High over hills, and low adown the dale,
She wand'rtd many a wood, and mcafur'd many a
Fairy ^een.
vale.

M

Caiamy^s Scrmors,

One hundred thoufand pounds muil be raifcd j
2.

The ditijy, primrofe, violet.
'rhomfon.
Dale. «./. [</«/«, Gothick ; //«/, Dutch
and German.] A low place between
hills ; a vale ; a valley.

when our fouls are

ftake.

When daifies pied, and violets blue,

Addijoti.
ing to a lock of hay.
Fair-handed Spring onbofoms every grace j

:

Upon his arms, with courage bold
Cried out, Ms now no time to dally.
The enemy begin to rally.
Uudibras*
We have trifled too long already it is mad-

Miller.

foms, the earth her primrofcs and days-eyes, 10
Hmael.
behold him.
Now hawthorns bio (Tom, now Xhidaifies fpring
Now leaves the trees, and (iow'ts adorn ihe ground.

Dutch, to

Take up thy mailer

t'le (lalks are naked,
Jt hath a perennial ro.it
the cup of the flower is
and never branch out
fcaly and (implc, divided into many fegments to
the foot-ftalk.
The flowers are radiated ; and
the heads,, after the petals are fallen off, rcfemble

And lady fmocks all over white.
And cuckoo buds of yellow hue,
Do paint the meadows much bedight.

[ dolkn,

Ifthou fhouldft i/j/Zy- half aii hour, his life,
With thine, and all that offer to defend him,
Shakefftearc's ^"'^ hear.
Stand in aliurcd lofs.
He left his cur, and laying hold

A fpring flower.

obtufe cones.

n.

To trifle ; to play the fool ; to amufe
one's felf with idle play; to loie time
in trifles ; to procrallinate idly.

Come up quickly, or we ihzW .conclude that

[bxjej-eaje,

1/.

trifle.]
1.

thou art in love with one of Sir Kvg'.rs daiiy.ni.^iiis.
Mdiftr.

'\

and grecneft ye find,

ft

Ler.ve ftanuing in dallvj>s till time ye do bind,

Pope.

Will now deny to dance ? She that makes dainty,
Shaktjf. Romeo and Julitt.
I'll fwear hath corn;.

[irom dally .1

'ihe Ually dalliers with pleafant worda, with
fmiling countenances, and with wageis purpofed
to be loil before they weie purpofed to be made.

;

Chaucer.

«

a foadler.

Dtyden.
And then produce her dtiiry (lore.
milk farm j -ground where
Pafturage

Da'isy. n.f.

—

)i:.-

Da^lmtr. H.f,

:

plearui« of tafte, and therefore
plumbs are a little dry.

MdiQr.*

;

—Good lorJ, you ufe this dalliance to excufe
Y
breach of promife,
Shakcfpenre,

:

talis ; delicious.

with thee in hcav'n.

procraftinatioq.
fc 'th wind and tide ftay for this gentleman
;

3.

She in pens his flocks will fold.

Elegance ; nicety.
The duke exceeded in tUe daimiiufi o( his leg

It was

And my C^ul 's tun'd to trumpets,
Drydcr*
Conjugal convedation.
The gi'int, feir-diJmaye with the found.
Where he with his Ouefla dalliance found,

And 1, to blame, haveheU him here too long.

A thoufand Iambs that wander on the plain. Vryd.

Wiiat Ihould yet tliy palate pleafe ?
Daimir.cf: and fofter tiii.

2.

The place where milk is manufactured.

What ftores my aairiet and my folds contain

Delicacy ; (bftnefs.

head ray people j

I'll

The occupation or art of making va-

That doth haunt the hearth or dairy. Ben jfonfin.

4. Squeamifti'.y ; faftidioufly.
Da'intisess. »./. [from dajniy.]

Shakcfj>eare''s "TemfteJ}..

Then think oi dalliance whew tjie danger^s o'er :
My warlike fpiriis woik now another way,

Mr. /.y^.]

You have no more wor'h
Than the coarfe and cotiuiry fairy.

th' U'ooJ.

Fair couple liaic'd in happy nuptial icigue,
Afone ai they,
Mihoftm

:

rious kinds of food from milk.
Grounds were turned much in England either
to feeding or dairy ; and this advanced tnc trade uf
TemfU.
Englilh butter.

i'

Nor gentle puxpofe, nor endearing fniilesi
Wanted J nor youthful dalllartccf as befccms

Bii.i.ti.

But yet thou ftalt have freedom. Stall. Ta^pift.
There is a fortune coming
Towards you, dainty, that will talcc thee thus.
Ben Jonfcn.
And fet thee aloft.
DA'IRY. n.f. [from dey, an old word for

Brtm'i yinu of Efiik Poms.
ceremonloufly ; (crupuloufly.
Nicely;
J.

1 .

(

To t'r fire

On the fat flock and rural djioties feall.
Pofc.
2. A word of fondnefs formerly in ufe.

^'""'•

i. Delicioufly ; pleafantly.
There is no region mi earth fo daintily w;itered,
with fuch cre« navigable rivers.
HKvd'i Vo:al Fmji.
Tbofe yowag fuitors had beta accoAomed to notbiot but to flcev well, »iid fa.e daintily.

:

:

She then pioduc'd her dairy ft ife,
Drydcn.
And unbought daintiis of the poor.
The fhepherd fwains, with fu/e abundance bleil,

Dryier.

Da'intily. ad-v. [from daivty ]

Look thou be true do not give dalliance
Too much tlie rein the ftrongeft oaths arc ftraw

A

dainty to nightingales.

carefTes ; at^s of fond-

ol*

nefs.

Prci'tris, xiiii. 3.
worm breedeth in. meat, of the ihape of a
large white maggot, which is giv^n as a great

!

years tngetber.

Inierchange

1.

ceitful meat.

Pr-.-.r.
From daily trouble, and continued griet.
often.
very
Everyday;
fl</f.
Da'ily.
Let that man with better Icnfe advife,

That of tlie world leaft part to us is read ;
And daily how through hardy enterprize
Many grrJt rrgionn are difcovered. Fairy SluKr..

Something; nice or delicate ; a delicacy ; Ibmething of exquifite tafte.
Be not defnous of his dainties ; for they are de-

Much areV> bound to heaven
In Jt'ily thanks, thaPgave us fuch i prince. Sbtl.
to hope relieJ"
Ceafe, m»o of woman born

1.

Da'lliancf. n.f. [itom dally.']

Happen- Da'Inty. n. f.

[bajlic, Saxon.]

DA'ILY. aJj.

DAM

DAL

D A I

Ttomf, Spring.

dame, which formerly
Had Nero ne^ver been
an emperouty Jhulde never his dame hanje
he Jlaine,
Chaucer ^'^
fignilied mother.

I.

The

The mother: ufed of beaftj, or other
animals not human.
The dum runs lowing up and down,

».

DAM

DAM

DAM

Ireland, to pay the damages which

Clarmden.

Reparation of damage ; retribution.
The bifliop demanded reilitution of the fpoils

\.

Looking the wjy her harmlcfs young one w;nt.
Anil can do nought but wal her darling lofs.

taken by the Scots, or damages (ox tlie fame.

—

let

See Plum.
Damask-rose, n.f. The rofe of Damaf-

2.

me whether, upon exhibiting the feveral

5.

A human mother, in contempt or deThis bra: is none of mine ;
It is the iflue of Poiixena :

Hence with it, and, together with the dam.
Commit them to the fire. Shaicff. fP'mier'i tali.

Dam. n. f. [</«»», Dutch.] A mole or bank
to confine water.

Aj when the fea brealcs o'er its bounds.

And overflows the level grounds,

[In law.] Any hurt or hindrance that
a man taketh in his eftate. In the common law it particularly fignifies a part
of what the jurors be to enquire of;
for, after verdift given of the principal
caufe, they are likewife aflccJ their confciences touching colls, which are the
charges of fuit, and damages, which
contain the hindrance which the plaintiff or demandant hath fuffcred,
by
me-ins of the wrong done him by the
defendant or tenant.
Conuell.

Thofi banks and iamt, that like a Ikreen
Huditras.
Did keep it out, now keep it in.
Not with fo fierce a rage the foaming flood

V/h^n the judge had awarded i\it^ damages to a
peiTon into w!)ofc field a neighbour's oxen. had

Roar^ when he finds his rapid courfe withftood j
Bears down the dams, wjth unrefifted fway,

fentcnce,

And fwecps the cattle and the cots away. Dryden.

and

it is the

each fide,

if it

is

better.

To Da'm AGE. "z/.a. [from the noun.]

To

impair ;

to

mifchief ; to injure
hurt ; to harm.

I'll have the current In this place damm'd up

And liere tSc Imug and fiivcc Trent (h. 11 run
But that my doors are hateful-to tny eyes,
FiU'J and djmm'd up with gaping cred.tors.
Watchful as fowlers when their game will fpring.
Ottvay^

Boggy lands are fed byfprings, pent by a weight
of earth, that dami in the water, and caufes it to
'Tis you muft drive that trouble from your f !ul
As flreams, when damm'd, forget their ancient
current,

^

And, wond'ring at their banks, in other channels
Sn:ill:.

flow.

2. It is ufcd

\

are

;

The value of mifchief done.
Tbey believed that they were not able, though
they (hould be willing to fell all they have in

Shakifp. King Lear.
Sov'reign of creatures, univerfjl damf ! Miitvn.

from

wake us.

a

As will to greatnels dedicate themfelves. Shakefp.
n.f. A plant, called
alio queen's gillyflower.
Milptr.
To D.\MN. -v. a, [diimno, Latin.]
1. To iJpom to eternal torments in a fii'"
""
ture (late.

Dames-vioIet.

'

'

manner in-

thofc fafts and opinion?.

'

-

'

,

Snuih's itnmnst

To condemn.
His own impartial thought
Will damn, and confciencc will record the 'fault.
Dry,Lr.

Her dama/i late, now cbang'd to pureft wliite.
.

Fairfjx.

;

1

To hoot or hifj any pablick perform...
ance ; to explode.
Tbey damn themfelves, nor will my mufe dcfcend

To dap with fuch who fools and knaves commend.

to diverfify.

They fat recline

Dryden.

On the foft downy bank, damajk'd with flower*.
M'slim.

For the great dons of vilt,
Phrrbtis g'ves ihem full privilege alone
To damn all others, and cry up their own.

Fcnun,

Vou arc fo good a critick, that i; is the greatelt
bappincfs Qf the modern poets that you do not
heat

Around him dance the rofy hours.

And damajk'mg the ground with flow'rs,
With ambient fwcets perfume the morn.

Bmccn,

done the utmaft lying-in his ppwer that he might
not' be ignorant of >t, Ihall not damn him.

ufed for red colour in Fairfax,
from the damafk rofe.

To Da'mask. "v. a. [from the noun.]
1
To form flowers upon (luffs.

.

procure or ca'ul% to be eternally
^\'
condei^ned.
That which ho continues ignora:\t of, having

is

To variegate

'

church, by doc-

To

2.

And for fomc dcalc perplexed was her fpirit,

2.

'

trine, and decree,"^ ) a'-m« aiid fend to hell for ever

In diaper, damafk, or in lync.
Sfenfer.
Wipe your Ihoes, for want of a clout, with a
damnjk napkin.
Stoiff's Rules to S^rvann.'
It

'

.

It is rooft neccffary, that" the

vented at Dama/cus, by which part, by
a various dire£lion of the threads, exhibits flowers or other forms.
Not any weaver which his work doth bnaft

2.

L'EJirangt.

4. Vv''oman in general.
We've willing dames enough ; there cannot be
That vulture in you, to devour fo many

from D ima/cus.]
in

poetry for women of

iHll ufed in

His father Faunus ; a Laurentian djme
His mother, fair Marica was her natne. Drydtn,
Who would not repeat that blifs.
And frequent fight of fuch a dame
i.
Buy with. the hazard or his fame ?
Walkr.
3. Miftrefs of a low family.
They killed the poor cock ; for, fay they, if it
were not for his waking our dami, (he would not

iBaecn.

Linen or filk woven

1.

It is

rank.

Fr. dami/-

!

3.

Shut your mouth, dame I

a damibn,

bhck.

chino, Ital.

Mifchief ;. hurt; detriment.
Grofs errours and .ibfurdities many commit fur

2. Lofs ; mifchief fuffered.
His heart exalts him in the harm
Already done, to have difpeopled lieav'n.
Aflltai,
My damage foi.dly deem'd

\_dam.tfcenus,

Stakefp)earii

;i

Addijon.

damageabk

D.\'MASK. n.f. [damafquln,

DA'MAGE. «./ yomagt, French.]

t'z refulfed the enemy very much to their daClatendcn.
mage.

Sbak.J^eare*

Not all thefe lords do vex me half fo much
As that proud dame, the lord protcSor's wife.

peat plums, and daimi/cenes ; and the choictft p'ums

'.

than to the Iriflj enemies, by their cun.inu:il ccfs
Dav'ut.
and extortion.

Though in your ftate of honour I am perft6>.

In April follow the cherry tree in bloflbtn, the
damafcene and plum trees in blonboi, and the white*
tho.ii in leaf.
Satin.
In fruits rlie white commonly is meaner, .as in

!

want of a friend to till them of them, to the great
Pu.cn.
damage both of their fame and fortune.
Such as were fcnt from thence did conim mlj
lubjcfls
English
to
the
io more hurt and damage

or a miftrcfs of a family oi^the lower rank in the
country.
IValis's Logkk,
Blefs you, fair dame / I am not to you known.

as it is now fpoken.

M,:t.r..

1.

f.

law to tignify a ladj : but in com-

in the Englifli

mon ule, now-a-days, it reprefeats a former's wife,

to ourfclves.
It.

Chambers.
dama,

French;

The word dime originally (ignified a miftrefs
who was a lady; and it is ufed Itill

innocence of our neighbours, and rnoil pernicious

A fmall plum

[detme,

of a family,

Obfcenc and immodcft talk is offenfive to the
purity of God, damageable and infcflious to the

Damafcus.'\

f,

men.

2.

Da'mascene.

«.

Spanifh.]
A lady ; the old title of honour to wo-

1

[from damage.']

Sufceptible of hurt : as,
goods.
2. Mifchievous ; pernicious.

Of fome'clay habitation, vICt us
With thy long Icvell'd rule of ftreaming 1,

locks of piftols.

DAME.

be damaged.

Da'mageable* adj.

if your influence be quite damm'd, up

With black ufuiping mills, fome geiule tapcr^
Though a ru(h-candlc from the wicker hole

:

•ToDa'mage. <v. n. To take damage, or

Shakrfpi-ari:,

Moon

to

quite disjointed and broken into pieces.

by Shairjpeare of fire, and

by Milton of light.
The more thou damm'fi it up, the more it burni.

by making incifions, and filling
them up with gold or filver wire ufed
in enriching the blades of fwords, and
fteel,

confidcr time as an immenfe ocean, into
which many noble aurhors are entirely fwall iwcd
up, many very much ftattered and damaged, fome

Mcriinsir.

ipread.

;

1.

In a new channel, fair and evenly. Shak, tiin. VI.
Home 1 would go.

Thomfortt

Da'maskENInc. »./. [from damajquiner,
Fr.] The art or aft of adorning iron or

I

Mcrtimers Hvjbandry.

or dams.

Nor, Ihowcr'd from ev'ry bufii, the damafi-mfe.

it is reported that he tcvorl'eJ Lis own
when he beard thit the oxen, which
had done this mifchief, were his own.
H^alis.

made very Hoping on

To DAM. V. a. [bemman, fopebemman.
Sax. dammen, Dutch.]
1. To confine, or (hut up, water by moles

Nor broad carnations, nor gay fpotted pinks.

brok",

Let loofe the reins to all your wat'ry ftor.'.
Bear down the dami, and open every door. Drydtrt.
The infide of the dam muft be very fmooth
ftrclght ;

Sacon»

No gradual bloom is wanting from the bud,

jiddifur.

teftation.

and

See Rose.

Damajk-rojes have not been known in England
above one hundred years, and now are fo common.

which I have related to you, I may
not fue her for damages in a court of juitice.

Riiy.

up rhcir heads and gape.

fteel-work with figures :
fuppofe, firft at Damal'cus,

Dam ASu.pLUM.

particulars
I

tliL-

nefs, hold

I

cus ; a red rofe.
Tell

me have your

Alas, my child, fays the dam, which of
VEftratig(.
-ods fliall I go to ?
Birds bring but one morlel of meat at a time,
and have nnt fewer, it may be, than feven or
right young in the neft together, which, at the return of their Aj)HJ,do al. a: once, with equal gieedl-

j-raycrs.

adorn

praAifed,

Shaktflxare.

Mother, fays a fick kite,

To

had been Aif- I 3.

twined by the war.

Diyd.

DAM

DAM

heir their works ; and, next, that ym an not fa
arrant a critick as to damn them, like the reft,
without hearing.
Pcft.

.

Damp. adj. [y^w/f, Dutch.]
1. Moid;
inclining to wetj

Deferving dainnation ; juftly doomed
to never-ending punifhment.
It gives

him occjfion of labouring with greater

Were damnable.

moifture.
Night ; not row, as ere man fell,
Wholefom, and cool, and mild j but with black air
Accompanied, with damps and dreadful gloom.
M'diov,

A rift there was, which -from the mountain's
height

Convey'd a glimmering and malignant light
breathing-place to draw the damps away,
A twilight of an intercepted day.
Drydrn.

2.

Chrift damr.ably, in relpeft of thofe coniequences
that arile frrmi them ?
Ssuit'iScrmom.

trating the exterior parts of the earth, excites thole
mineral exhalations in fubrerraneniis caverns, which

indecently ufed in a
fenfe; odioufly ; hatefully.

are called i/am^j ; thefe feldom happen but in the

ludicrous

fummer-time j when, the hotter the weather is, the
more frequent are the damps.
Woodviard.

The more fwects they bellowed upon them, the

Exclucondemnation

Tayhr'i WV/iy CummunUatil.

Now mince the fin,
But barely not forbade it.

An eternal ftatc he knows and confeflcs that
he has made no provifion for, that he is undone
for ever : a profpeft enough to call a
damp over
his fprightlieft hours.
Rogen.
Thiscommendablcrefentmentagainftme,ftrikes
3 damp upon that fpirit in all ranks and corporations of men.
Sivift.

Dryden.

[from damnatorius.]
Containing afentence of condemnation.
X>A')AKZTi. part. adj. [from damn.] Hateful ; detellable ; abhorred ; abominable.
Not in the legions

Of horrid hell can come a devil mo:c damned
In evils to top Macbeth.
Skaleff,eiire'i Macbeth.
Let not the royal bed of Denmark be
A couch for luxury and damned incert.

z.

what damned minutei f. lis he o'er,

the reliflj of another.

Wkodoata, yet doubts; tifpefls, yetrtrongly loves.

Dread of death hangs over the mercnatural man,
and, like the hand-writing on the wall, damps all

Sbakefpeare.

Date not

h'sjoll'ty-

To brand the fpotlefa virtue of my prince
Witli falfeboods of mod bafe and damn d contriv-

remit, fatisfaftim ; the dimnifed perfon has the
power of appropriating the goods or fervice of the
offender, by right of felf-prefervation.
Locke.
;

to impair.

When now he faw himfelf fo fre/hly rear.
As if late fight had nought him damnified.

He wa» difmay'd, and 'gan his fate to fear.
Fairy ^ueen.

i.

Damnincness.

n. /.

And mademeclimb with danger of my life.
Spanifli ;

[from damning.]

Tendency to procure damnation.
Vol. I.

and donna, Italian, from do~

The old term of honour for
men, as we now fay Majler. I know
mina. ]

not that it was ever ufed in profe, and
imagine it to have been rather of ludi-

crous import.

Dan Chaucer well of Englilh undeflled. Douglafs,
This whimpled, whining, purblind, wayward
boy.

This fignor Junio's giant dwarf, dan Cupid, Siak,
Dick, if this ftory pleafeth thee,
Pray thank dan Pope, who told it me.
Prior's Alma.

DANCE. V. n. [danfer, Fr. dan^ar.
Span, as fome think from tanza, Arabick, a dance ; as Junius, who loves to
derive from Greek, thinks, from ^0mo-ij.]
To move in meafure ; to move
with fteps correfpondent to the found of

To

inftruments.

What fay you to young Mr. Fenton ? He capers,
he dances, he has eyes of youth, he writ-s verles.
ShakeJ'piare.

To

Dance Attendance,

-v.

n.

To w»it

with fupplenefs and obfequioufnefs.

To let your father's friend, for three long months.

It upbraids you.

Thus dance attendance for a word of audience,

A foft boiiy damfeib the found much more than
» '"'d.

4.

Shak.

to abate ; to hebetate ; to

;

difcourage.

tin.]-

to any.
He, wi«) has fuffcred the damage, has a right
to demand in his own name, and he alone
can

See Da-

Wen are fooner weary to dance attendance at the
gates of foreign lords, than to tarry the good leifure of tlieir own magiftratcs.
Raleigh's Effays,

To weaken

}.

f#DA'MNiFy. -v. a, [from damgificOfLi-

To endamage; to injure; tocaufelofs

Aiietbury.

A fmall black plum.

would be enough to damp their warmth in
fuch purfuits, if they could once refledl, that in
fuch coutfe they will be fure to run upon the very
rock they mean to avoid.
Stvift.
It

Damni'fic. adj. [(rom damnify.] Procuring lofs ; milchievoos.

L'Eflrar.gc.

c^^,
[corruptly from </a»»a/-

Dan. n.f. [from dominus, as now don in

To

deprefs ; to dejeft ; to chill ; to
dull.
1 he very lofs of one pleafure is enough to damp

Dryd.

mascene.
My wife defir'd fome damfons.

To Damp. 'v. a. [from the noun.]
I. To wet; tomoilten; to make humid.

Stakeffrare'i Hamlet.

To hurt

cent.]

Addifon.

DA'MNATORy. adj.

'

with child.

A fccrct damp of grief aomes o'er my thoughts.

Say you confented not to Sancbo's death,

A wench; a country lafs.

Da'mson. n.f.

fence,

And mollify damnation with a phrafe

in

The clowns ate whoremaflers, and the damfeli

His name ftrucle every where fo great a damp.
As Archimedes through the Roman camp. Rojc.
Ev'n now, while thus I {land bleft in thy pie-

ftiangle his brother for a trifle.

But, oh

3.

Milton.

he hath been fpared
from an horrible damnaticr, will not be ready to

a young wo-

With her train of damfils (he was gone
In (hady walks, the fcorching heat to (hun.

Recov'ring, and his fcatter'd fplrits retuin'd,

hell, or remembers how often

;

now only ufed

Kneeling, I my fervant's fmiles implore.

To Michael thus his humble words aJdrefs'd

He that hath been affrighted with the fears of

:

And one mad demj'el dates difpute my pow'r. Prior,
2. An attendant of the better rank.

of the mind.
Adam, by this from the cold fudden damp

Damna'tion. »./ [from<j'a/«».]
from divine mercy ;
to eternal punifhment.

Dejcftion; depreffion of fpirit ; cloud

3.

A young gentlewoman

Hayward.
French.]

verfe.

A noxious vapour exhaled from the
The heat of the fun, in the hotter feafons, pene-

[damoifille,

man of diiHndlion

earth.

«ho hold the fundamentals of faith may deny

fion

I.

A

We will propofe the queftion, whether thofe

T>

Da'msel. n.f,

Fog; moid air;

1.

mercy.

Dertilt,

The lords did difpeli/am^ji thoughts, which the
remembrance of his uncle might raife, by applying
him with exercifes ar.d difports.

DAMP. n.f.

I. In fuch a manner as to incur eternal
puniihment ; fo as to be excluded from

2.

gloomy ; forrowful.

Downcaft and damf : yet fuch wherein appear'd
Obfcure fome glimpfc of joy.
Mdttn

Da'mnably. aav. [from damnablt.']

inore damnably their conlervcs ftunk.

Dampy,

All thefe and more came flocking, but with looks

cious.
O thou damnai/e fellow ! did not I pluck thee
by the nofc for thy fpeeches >
Skaiijffare's Meafure for Meefure.

1.

not com-

Dejefted; funk; depreffed.

2.

j

Shukijp. Mtojurtfor Mcafure.

is

Nor need they fear the dampness of the flcy
Should flag their wings, and hinder them to fly;
'Twas only water thrown on fails too dry. Dryd,
By (lacks they often have very great lofs, by the
dampmfs of the ground, which rots and fpoils it.
Mortimer,
_^ ,
adj. [fioradamp.] Dejefted;

:

As he does not reckon every fchifm of a dairtiailt nature, fo he is far from clofing with the new
opinion of thofe who mskc it no crime.
S'u'i/t.
2. It is foinetimes indecently ufed in a
low and ludicrous fenfc; odious; perni-

2. It

foggjnefs.

pletely dry; foggy.
She faid no more the trembling Trojans hear,
O'erlpread with n damp fweat ai.d holy fear. Dryd.

earnertnefs elfewhere, to entangle unwary minds
with the fnares of his dair.nabU opinion.
Hmkir.

He '% a creature unprepar'd, i^nmeet for death
And to tranfport him in the mind he is

Da'mpnes8.«./ [from a'<j»;^.] Moifture j

he hath had fuch experience of, for the emptinefs
and damnmgvejs of them, and fo think himfelf a
complete penitent.
Hammond.

Da'mnable. aJ/. [from </««».]
I

DAN

He may vow never to return to thofe fins which

/,^„„.

To hebetate

;

to abate motion ; to dif-

courage ; to dull.
Ufury dulls and damps all induflries, improvements, and new inventions, wherein money would
be ftirring, if it were not fir this Aug.

Bacon.

Unle/t an age too late, or cold

Dryden,

To Dance. 1;. a.

To make to dance ; to

put into a lively motion.
Thy grandfire lov'd thee well

Many a time he danc'd thee on his knee. Sbakcfp,
That I fee thee here.
Thou noble thing more dances my rapt' heart.
Than when I fii(t my wedded miftrefs law
!

Climate, or years, damp my intended wing

Bcltride my Ihrc&old.

Deprcfs'd.

In peltilences, the malignity of the infefting
vapour danceth the principal fpirits.
Bacon.

Milicn.

Da'mpishness. n.f. [from damp .] Tendency towetnefs ; fogginefs; moifture.
hath been u(<d by lome with great fuccefs
to make their walls thick ; and (o put a lay of
chalk between the bricks, to titke »vyay all da'mfIt

i/bnif:,

Bacon.

Shaktjpeart's Corielanvs.

Dance, n.f. [from the verb.] A motion
of one or many in concert, regulated by
mufick.
Our dance of cuftom, round about the oak of
Hernethe hunter. Shakefpean'tM.lf.ofH^indfor.
3

O

the

DAN

DAP

DAN

With dangling hands he flrokcf th' imperial robe^

The hoDOurablcft part of talk i< to give the oc- I 3.
delay ; to procraftinate j to protraft
cifion, and again to moderate and pal's to fomeby trifles : not in ufe.
viiat cire i for then a man leadi the djiiet.
Captains do fo dandle their doings, and dall)

To

Bacon-

But you perhaps rxpefl a modilh fealli
Dryden.

Pa'ncer. n.f. [from dance.'\

One that

pra^ifcs the art of dancing.

ble, ufelefs, harmlefs follower. _
The prelbytcrians, aad other fanaticks that
dangle after them, are well inclined to pull down

from tan, the itch, and bpop, fordid,
filthy.] Scabs in the head ; fcurfatthe
roots of the hair.

Da'noler. w./ [from fl'rt«r^/i'.] A maa
that hangs about women only to wafte

-

dandles or fondles children.

Thr lean and wrinkled Caflius.

Da'newort.

A fpecies of elder;

h. f.

called alfo dwarf-elder, or wallwort.
DA'NGER. n.f. [danger, Fr, of uncertain

Skinner derives it from damMenage from angaria, Minjhe-iu

derivation

.

The legs of a dancMgrnafter, and the fingers of
a mufician, fall, as it were, naturally, without
thought or pains, into regular and admirable motions.
Locke en Underjianding.

A dangler is of neither fex.

Kalfht

DANK. adj. [fromiuKcien, Germ.
7icr.]

He her the maiden (Iceping found

The mid aereal (ky.
Ecclus. xliii. 24.

Our craft is in danger to be fet at nought.

He hath writ this to feel my affedtion to your
honour, and to no other pretence of danger,
Shakefpeare.

More danger now from man alone we find,

Than from the rocks, the billows, and the wind.
Waller.

To

To Da'nger. Ki. a. [from the noun.]
put in hazard ; to endanger.

Siin-

Damp; humid; moill ; wet.

peril.

Alii, X. 17.

The apes were taught their apes tricks by a
iartdngmajier.
L^Efirange,

time.

TheiAni*, and rifing on ftiff pinions tour

They that fail on the fea, tell of the danger.

Prkr.

Siuifr.

the prcfcnt eftablifliment.

num.
from Jat®-, death, to which Junius
Rifque ; hazard ;
feems inclined. ]

Had o'er xh.c dancer'i mind Coo great command.

ing.

2.

D a'n d r u f f. n. /. [often written dtndriff,

He at Philippi kept

Da'k ciNCMASTER. n.f. [Jatice and mafter.']
One who teaches dte art of danc-

The fword hang dangling o'er die (hield ? Pr'ar,
To hang upon any one ; to be an hum-

Sfenfer.

Da'ndler. n.f. [from </««&] He that

His fword e'en like a dancer, while I flrook
Shahfptart,
Muficians and dancers ! take fome truce
With tlvele your pleating laboors ; for great ufe
As much wearincfi as perft-ftio:i brings.
Donne.
The earl was fo far from being a good dancer,
H'ction.
that he was no graceful goer.
Ic is a ufual praAice for our funambiilouis, or
Janctrt on the lope, to attempt famewbat like tn
IVllkm.
flying.
He, perfefl dancer I climbs the rope,
Prior.
And balances your fear and hope.
Nature, I thought, perform'd toa mean a part,
Forming her movements to the rules of art
And, vcx'd, } found that the mufician's hand

Srmtb»

But have yon not with thought beheld

in rhe fervice, as if they would not have the cnemj

fubdued.

With ajn'rous fongs and wanton daua gtac'd.

And with a cuckold's ur commands the globe.

Oa the dank and dirty ground.

Sbakcfftare,

'Vet oft they quit

Miltm,

Through each thicket, dank or dry.
Like a black mill, low creeping, he held on
Milton.
His midnight fearch.
Now that the fields are dank, and ways are miie,
Where (hall we fometimes meet, and by the fire
Milton,
Help wafte a fullcn day ?
By the rulhy-fringed bank.
Where grows the willow and the oGer dank,

My Aiding chariot ftays.

Milton*

Mc, in my vow'd
Piflure, the facrcd wall declares t' have hung

My danh and drooping weeds

Fompey's fon (lands up
For the main foldier ; whofc quality going on,

Milton,
To the ftcrn god of fea.
To wa(h the (kins of beafts and fowls herewith,

them from growing dank

would keep
The fides o' th' world may danger.
Shaktfpeare.
Da'ncingschooi. n.f. [eiancing s.aA
weather.
[tiooi
danger.
'WithDa'ncerless.<j<^'.
/chool.']
The fchool where the art of
Da'nkish. adj. Somewhat dank.
exempt
out hazard
without rifque

moid

in

Crevt.

"]

dancing is taught.

And teach lavoltas high, and fwift courantos

He (hewed no lefs magnanimity in dangerlejt

;

Saying our grace is only in our heels. Sbaktffeare.
A certain Egyptian king endowed a dancing'
fchiiil for the inftitution of apes of quality.

defpifing, than others in dangerous affefling, the

multiplying of kingdoms.

Ecclus. IX.

All men counfel me to take away thy life, like-

It agneea in all refpcQs with the hawkwecd, but

having a fingle naked ftalk, with one

flower upon the top.
Miller.
For cowflips fwcet, let dandelimi fpread j
For Blouaelinda, blidifume maid, is dead
Gay^l Pajlcrah.
!

Da'ndipr AT. a.y; [</aW;';j, French.] A
little

ly to bring forth nothing but dangeioui and

wicked

cl}'e£ls.

Sidney.

Already we have conquer'd half the war.

And the lefs dangerous part is left behind. Drydin.
Da''ngerously. adii. [from dangerous.']
Hazardoufly ; periloufly ; with danger.

fellow ; an urchin : a word'ufed

fometimes in fondnefs,
contempt.

fometimes

But for your (on, believe it, oh believe it,
Moll dang'raujiy you have with him prevaiUd,
If nut muft mortal to him.
Shak/Jf. Coriolanus.
A fort of naughty pcrfons

in

To DA'NDLE. -v. a. yanJeltn, Dutch.]
the hands, to plcafe and quiet him.

Shakeffteare.

Then (hall yc (Tick, and (hall be born upon her
fides, and be

dunJled upon her knees.

It

Plutarch fays,

Dcnne.

S;>orting the lion ramp'd,

Bacon*

and in his paw

,

n>on ofe of rocking frowarJ children in cradles, or
djndtin^ them in their nurfcs arms.
'Xcmple,

a. .To fondle ; to treat like a child.

;

caoiot look in the ^ lafs without blulhing, to fee
myfcf Cuincd iotu fuch a little pretty mafter.
Miijin'i G»ati>*n*

to (all

mod danger-

Hammond on Fundamentals.
Telefilla,

a noble lady,

being

My
Da'ncerousness. ».y". [from dangerous.]
Danger ; hazard ; peril.

not need to mind you of judging of the
of dKcales, by the noblencfs of the
By!e.
part ad'cacd.
1

(liall

dar.gcrottfntfs

There left me.

Sbakejpeare.

To Dap. <v. n. [corrupted from dip.] To
let fall gently into the water : a word,
I believe, only ufed by anglers.
1 have taught him how to catch a chub, by
ff^altc-n.
dapping with a grafshopper.

Dapa'tical. adj. [from dapaticus, Lat.]
Sumptuous in cheer.

ing to Skinner : as, hang, bangle, dangle.]
I.

To hang loofe and quivering.
He'd rather on a gibbet dangle.
Codrus had but one bed ;

Hudibras.

fo (hort, to boot.

That his fliort wife's flivt le^s hung dangling out.
Drydcr,.

Little

and aftive ; lively without bulk.
ufually fpoken in contempt.
And on the tawny fands and (helves.

It is

Trip the pert fairie»and the dapper elves. Milton.
A pert dapper fpark of a magpye fancied the
birds would never be governed till himfelf Ihould
VEjirangt,
fit at the helift.

A

\ixQxa. dapper .]

n.f.

Amfivorth.
dwarf; a dandiprat.
DA'PPLE. adj. [from apple ; ispommele.]

Marked with various colours ; variegated ; flreaked ; imbricated it is ufed
chiefly of animals.
:

My country neighbours do not find itimpofliblc
to think of a lame horfe, till they have run over
all beings that are, and then piich on dapple. Locke.

TeDA'pFLE.

1;.

a.

[from the adjedlive.]
to diverfify with
;

To ftreak ; to vary

colours.
But under him a grey fteed did he wield,
Whofc fides with dappled circles were endight.
.

Spinfir.

The gentle day
Dapples the drowfy eail with (pots of grey.
Horl'cs that are dappled turn white ;

Go, bind thou up yon dangling .ipriGocks. Sbak.

Than mifs his dear delight to wrangle.

Bailey.

DA'PPER. adj. {dapper, Dutch.]

To DA'NGLE. -v. «, [from l^ang, accord-

Their child (hall be advanc'd,

'

And be received for the emperor's heir;
And let the emperor dandle him for his own. Shak.
They have put me in a filk gown, and a gaudy
fool's cAp
1 am afhamed to be dandled thus, and

fo furely,

If it were fo, which but to think were pride.
conftantlove would dangeroujly be tried. Dryd.

Dandled tlie kid.
Millon.
Motion occalions Heep, as we find by the com-

.

God to permit thofc, which

dangeroujly fick, was advifcd to apply her mind to
poetry.
Peacham.

And, kifs'd and dandled on thy father's knee,
Were brib'd n..'Xt day to tell what they did fee.
Courts arc but fupeHiclal fchool*

with

oujly,

Oft (kip into our chamber ihofc fwect nights,

•

juft

think they (land

Ifaiab.

Thy little brethren, which, like fairy fprjghtr,

To dar.tlU r^^ols.

is

They bound me, b?re me thence.
And in a dark and dankifb vault at home

Da'pperling.

H.ive praflis'd dangeroujly againtl your (late.
Dealing with witctics and with conjurors.

To fliake a child on the knee, or in

1.

Ha-

zardous ; perilous ; full of danger.
A man of an ill tongue is dangcicus in his city.

Dasdeli'on. n.f. [Je»f de lion, French.]
The name of a plant.
its

Sidney.

Da''kgerous. adj. [irom danger."]

L'Eftrange.

only in

;

;

from danger.

They bid us to the EngliJh dancingfcleoli.

fquirrels turn grifly.

Shai.

and old
Bacon.

The lark begins his flight,
From his watch-tower in the Ikies,
Till the dappled dawn doth rife.

The dappled pink, and bl'i(hing rofe,
Deck my charming Cliloc's hair.

Milton.
Piier.

TJw.

DAR

D A R

Pofe.

Pofl.

Dar. In./. A fifh found in the Severn.
Dart. 3 Bailey. Dart is the fame with

Da'kjkcly. adv. [from daring.'] Boldly;
courageouily ; fearlefsly ; impudently ;
outrageoufly.
Some of the great principles of religion are every

Dace.

To DARE. v. n. pret. / ilurjl the preterite / dared belongs to the aftive dare ;
part. I have dared, [beappan, Saxon;

day openly and daringly attacked from the prefs.

;

derreit,

jittabury.

any purpofe ; not to be afraid ;
venture ; to be adventurous.

Tod daringly upon the ioc did pn-ls.

to ad-

Sbakef^tcrc.
I dare do all that may become a man

Who darei io more,

is

none.

Shakefpeare.

They are both hanged ; and (a would this be,
if he durjt ileal any thing adventuroully.

Not light

I.

Hatifax.

him clean.
more

We

to defy.

I never in

Obfcure; not perfpicuous.
What may feem dark at the firft, will afterwards be found more plain.
Hotker.
Mean time we Ihall cxprefs our ^(jrilfr purpofe.

Vnlefs a brother Jbocid a brother dan
Sbakiff.

Here Ihe (lands :

Not enlightened by knowledge ; ignorant.

I dare thee but to breathe upon my love. Sbakeffi.
He had many days come half feas over ; and

The age, wherein he Jiv'd, was dark;

but he
Could not want Hght, who taught the world to fee.

fomet-mes pafling further, came and lay at the
mouth of the harbour, daring them to light. KrJlei.
Mafterj of the arts of policy thought ftiat they
might even defy and dart Providence to the face.

Denbam.

And dart all heat but that in Celia's eyes,

!
Sbakcfftare' s Macbeth.
Cloud and ever-during dark
Surrounds me from the chearful ways of men
!

Cut off.
Millon.
Whereas feeing requires light, and a free medium, and a right line to the objects, we can hear
in the dark immured, and by curve lines.
Holder.

Obfcurity;

z.

condition of one unknown.

All he fays of himlclf is, that he is an oblcure
perfon j one, I fuppofe he means, that is in the
dark,
Atttrhttry.

Dryden.

Defiance ;

challenge.

Want of knowledge.

3.

Sextus Pompeiuj

Till we ourfelves perceive by our own under(landings, we arc as much in xiMdark, and as void

Hath given the dare to Caefar, and commands
Stalefi^eare.

of knowledge, as before.
Locke.
Dare. n. /. A fmall filh, the fame with
To Dark. v. a. [from the noun.] To
daee.

Leucifcus.

darken ;

Da'reful. adj. [dare itid full.] Full of

to obfcure : obfolete.'

Fair when that cloud of pride, which oft doth

dark

Her gojdly light, with fniiles (he drives away.

to

beard.

And beat them backward home.
Shalefpcare.
Da'rinc. adj. [from dare.] Bold; adventurous ; fearlefs ; courageous ; intrepid ; brave ; flout.
The lad Georgick has many metaphors, but
not fo daring as this ; for human palfions may be

rrisr.

Locke.

6.

The empire of Satan ; or the Devil,
Who hath delivered us from the power of dark'.
nrfs,

and tranflated us into

tlie

kingdom of his

dear Son.

Co/cjians.

Da'rksome. adj. [from dark.] Gloomy ;\
obfcure ; not well enlightened ; not luminous.
He brought him thro' a darkfome narrow paf»

To a broad gate.

Sfenfer.

And her fair eyes, like dars that dimmed were
With darkfcme cloud, now fliew their goodly beams.
i^penfcr.

You mud not look to have an image in any
thing lightfome ; for even a face in iron, red-hot,
will not be fccn, the light confounding the fm'aii
differences of lightfome and darkfcme, which (hcrfv
•
the figure.
Bacon.
A darkf'Mt clouJ of locuds, fwarming djwn.
eat, and on the ground leave nothing green.

Mud

&ftnjer,

Da'rken. •v. a. [hox&dark.]
1. To make dark ; to deprive of light.
Black with (urrounding forfllj then it ilood.

That hung above, and darken d all the flood.
Addifcn,

Whether the datkend room to mufe invite.

Or whhen'd wall provoke the (kcw'r to write.

MMJm.

Ibe ioog too Jaritig, and the theme too great.

All the light truth has, or can have, is front
the clearnels and validity of thofe pr<iofs upori
which it is received ; to talk of any other light
in the uaderdanding, is to put ourfelves in the
dark, or in the power of the prince of darknefs.

MiltiK.

7*0

moce naturally afcribed to a bee than to an inaniBiateplant.

Sbakefpeare.

of being intelleftually clouded;
ignorance ; uncertainty.

Nor heav'n peep through the blanket of the dark.

Carevi.

defiance : not in nfe.
We might have met them dareful, beard

In deeped confcquence,

5. State

To cry, hold, hold

is

As larks lie dar'd to fliun the hobby's flight.

The empire of the fea.

jiJdifin on Italy.

And pall thee in the dunneft fmoke of hell.
That my keen knife fee not the wound it makes ;

in Ihallow water with

Dare. «. / [from the verb.]

The inftruments of darknefs tell us truths ;

Win us with honed trifles, to betray us

Come, thick night.

of a looking-glafs, or by keeping a bird
of prey hover:^ aloft, which keeps them
in amaze till caught ; to amaze.
ufed for daring larks.

Opakenefs; want of tranfparency.
Obfcurity; want of perfpicuity ; difficultnefs to the underllanding.
4. Infernal gloom ; wickednefs.
2.

3.

Darknefs; obfcurity; want of light.

I.

To Dare Larks. To catch them by means

round nets, not much unlike that which

I go whence I ihall not return, even to the Uni
of darknefs, and the Ihadow of death.
yd.

Dark. n./.

Rfjccmirton.

dare thee to difcover
Such a youth, and fuch a lover.
Drydtn.
Prefumptuous wrerch ! with mortal art to dare
Immortal power, and brave the thunderer. Graa-u.
1

Shrimps are dipped up

Daikr.tfs was upon the face of the deep. Gctic/'s.

men of dark tempers, according to their
degree of melancholy or enthuCafm, may find
convents fittei to their fauraoun.

j

[fiQia dark.]

Abfencf of light.

1.

All

Sudlt.

All cold, but in her bread, I will defpife

Da'rkness. «. /.

Gloomy ; not cheerful.

7.

Ptft.

2.

To cloud

;

Dr^'d.

In a fituation void of light ; obfcurely ; blindly ;
gloomily ; uncertainly.
For well you know, and can record alone.
What lame to future times conveys but Vjrk'/
down.
Diydeii,

Sbaktfpeare.

6.

Take but poffeffion of her with a touch j

Had alter'd, and in brutal fliapes confin'd.

Da'rkly. adv. [fiom dark.]

dark body.

Did hear a challenge urg'd more modeflly,

To gentle czercife and proof of armt.

Boyle.

Condufl my weary ftcps. Dryden ar.d Lee's Oedipus.
Opake ; not tranfparent : asj lead is a

4.
5.

my life

Sings darkling, and, in (hadieft covert hid.
Tunes her noilurnai note.
Mihon.
Darkling they mourn their fate, whom Circe's
pow*r,
With words and wicked herbs, from human kind

than

hair

Blind ; without the enjoyment of ligkt.
Thou wretched daughter of i dark old man,

3.

To Dare. -v. a. pret. I dared, ROi I durft.

DarWmg Hands
The varying fliore 0' th" world.
Stahjptari.
The wakeful bird

ff^aller.

Leviticus.

inclined to have dark coloured

'

Skakejfejre.

Mufcovy the generality of the people are

flaxen.

Drydin.

dare not build much upon fuch a nation or
doftrine, till it be very fully citamin«d.
Ifalts.

O, wilt tliou darkling leave me ? do not fo.

If the plague be fomewbat dark, and the plague
fpread not in the Ikin, the prieil Ihall prpnounce

In

[a participle, as it feems,

:

wanting light.

Ko want of day, nor think it dari:.,
z. Not of a fhowy or vivid colour.

Shak.

to be cautious and to dare, as occafioo offi:rs.

;

To grow dirk.

from darkle, which yet I liave never
found ; or perhaps a kind of diminutive
from dark, &3 young, yoiingliiig.] Being
in the dark ; being without light
u
word merely poetical.

Fleance, Iiis fon, who keeps him company,
Jkrt embrace the fate of that dark hour. ShakWhile we converfe with her, we mark

Deliberate and wcll.*veighed courage knows both

little

Da'rkhng.

nefs.

Neither of them was of that temper as to dare
any dangerous fa£l.
Haywood.
The father bore it with undaunted foul,
Like one who durjl his deftiny controul. Drjden.

!

Tilloijon,
^

To Da'rken. f. n.

DARK. adj. [beopc, Saxon.]

thy word now ?^Why, Hal, thou knoweft, as thou art but a man,
I dart ; but, as thou art a prince, I fear thee.'

Time

To

Your brother, fir'd with his fuccefs.

Dareji thou be as good as

;

feldom iarUn his foitUsght, efpedally in things
near hand.
Bacon.
foul ; to fully.
3.
The lufts and palfions of men do fully and
darken their minds, even by a naturaliaflucncc.

To have courage for Da'rincness. n.f. [from daring.'] Bold-

Dutch.]

To challenge

DAR

Grieve not, O darhg prince, that noble heart.

The gods, to curre Pamela witK K:r priy'rs,
Gave the gilt coich and daff'.id Flanders mares.

to perplex.

Svvh was his wiidow, that his sonCdcnce did

He, here with us to be,
Forfook the courts of evcrlafting day,
A.i^ cbofe with us Adatifome houfc of mortal clay.

MillM,
Midakeji blelfing, which old age they call,
'Tis a long, natty, darkfome hofpital,
Dryden.
The daikfome pines, that o'er yon roCks reclin'di
Wave high, anJraurniurto thehollowwind, Pofe.

[beophnpj, Sax. diminuFavourite ; dear ; be-

'D\'B.i.itiXi. adj.

tive

of dim.]
3

O z

lovtfd ;

loTcd ;

ifegarded

If you dafi a done againft a flone 'm the bottom
Baccn.
of the wuiei, it maketh a I'ouud.
m.in that cuts himfelf, and tears his own
(tones,
fle(h, and dajbei his head againft the
does
not art fo unicafonably as the wicked man. lilUif.

with great kindnefi

and tendernefs.

L'EJIrar.gc.

favourite).
left

fome beloved notion, or fome

them ;

And, if they fall, they dap themfelves to pieces.
Sbakeffeare.

beloved.

David's throne (hall then be like a tree,
Spreading and overlhad'wing all the earth
Or as a ftone, that (hall to pieces dajb
All monarchies belidcs throughout the world.

Young Feidinand they fuppofe is drown'd,
SLiikeJfettrt.

In Thames, the ocean's darling, England's pride,
The pleafing emblem of his reign does glide.
Halifax.

She became the darlinr of the princefs. Mdijan.

Will (he thy linen warti, or hofen rfarn? Gay.
He fpent ever)- day ten hours in his clofet, in

Dafhing water on tliem may prove the beft re-

Menimer.
medy.
Middling his head, and prone to earth his view.
With ears and cheft that dajh the morning dew.
lickel.

4.

darning his ftockings, which he performed to adSwift.
miration.

Da'rnel. «./ [lolium.'] A weed growing
in the fields.

To befpatter

to befprinkle.
This tempeft,
DaJJjing the garment of this peace, aboded
Tlic fudden breach on 't.
Sbaieff. Henry VIII.

Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow-weeds.
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Sbaiiffcarc.
Id our fuftaining corn.
Want ye corn for bre»d ?
tafte
? Shak.
like
the
'Twas full of darnel ; do you
No fruitful crop the fickly fields return ;
Dryd,
But oats and darnel choiAi. the rifing corn.

;

To agitate any liquid, fo as to make

5.

He was met ev'n now

the furface fly off.

At once the brulhing oars and brazen prow
DaJb up the fandy waves, and ope the depths below.
Dryden.

To mingle

6.

;

to adulterate ; to

change

by fome worfe admixture.
Not wine, but more unwholefome law. Hudihras.

Junius referred to eiare : it feems to me
more probably deducible from arranger

I take care to da^; the charaflcrwith fuch par-

-v.

a.

ticular circumllances, as

To prepare for battle

1.

;

To apply to the fight: of Angle com-

2.

batants.
Therewith they 'gan to hurlen greedily,
Spenjer.
Redoubted battle ready to darraine.

DART. n.f. [darei, French.]

A miiTile weapon thrown by the hand

1.

;

a fmall lance.
Here one is wounded or (lain with a piece of
a rock or flint j there another with a dart, arrow,
Peacham.
or lance.
0'cr\vhelmM with darti, which from afar they

Sfeffator,

Never was dajh'd out, at one lucky hit,

A fool fo juft a copy of a wit.
8. To obliterate ; to blot

to deprefs ; to fupprefs.
His tongue
Dropp'd manna, and could make the worfe appear
perplex
and di.fi
The better reafon, to
Matureft councils.
Yearly enjoin'd, fome fay, to undergo

[In poetry.]

Any miflile weapon.
[from the noun.]

1.

To throw offenfively.

Dafi'd me with blulhes. Dryden and Lee's Oedifui.

To daJh this cavil, read but the praflice of ChrifAfter they had fufiiclently blallcd him in his
peifonal capacity, they found it an eafy work to
South.
dafi and overthrow him in his political.
Nothing daficd the confidence of the mule like
of
afs,
while
dilating
upon
braying
the
he
was
the
his genealogy.
UEJlrange,
The nymph, when nothing could NarcilTus move.
Still dafi'd with blulhcs for her (lighted love.

his beams on the earth.
Pan came, and a(k'd what magick caus'd. my

Hark, hark, the waters fall ;

And, with a murmuring faund,
Dafi, dafi, upon the ground.
To gentle (lumbers call.

DA'STARD. n.f.

A coward

Prior.
Defies our rifing hope with certain ill.
Dafi the proud gamel^rr in his gilded car;
Bare the mean heart that lurks beneath a iiar.

To fly as a dart.
I
a. To let fly with hoftile intention.
.

Pofe.

^hak.

To DASH. 1). a. [The etymology of this
word, in any of its fenfes, is very doubtful.]

To Dash. f. n.
\ .

If the velTel be fuddenly ftopt in its motion, the

ftrilce any thing fuddenly
J. To throw or

liquor continues

its

fides 0/ the vclTel.

motion, and dafiei over the
Cheyne.

a poltron ;

The cruelty and envy of the people.
Permitted by our dajlard nobles.
Have fufter'd me by th' voice of (laves to be
Whoop'd out of Rome.
Sbakefpeartm
Who now my matchlefs valour dare oppofe ?
How long will Dares wait his daftard foes ? Dryd.
Dajiard and drunkard, mean and infolent
Tongue. valiant hero, vaunter of thy might,
In threats the foremofl, but the laft in fight. Dryd.
Bug-bear thoughts, in the minds of children.

Make them dajlardi, and afraid of the Ihadow of
darknefs ever after.
Locke.
Curfe on their dajlard fouls, they ftand aftoni (h'd
j^dijon.

7«Da'stard. "v. a. To terrify

to intimidate ; to defert with cowardice ; to
;

difpirit.

I'am weary of this fle(h which holds us here.

And dajlardi manly fuuls with hope and fear.
DrydiiH

To Da'stardise.

1/.

To intimidate

to

;

[from daflard.^
dejecl with cow-

a.

ardice ; to difpirit ; to deprefs ; to terrify ; to make an habitual coward.

He had fuch things to urge againft our marriage.
As, now declar'd, would blunt my fword in battle.
And d^ijlardife my courage.
Dryden^
Da'stardly. adj. [ from dajiard. ] Cowardly ;

mean

;

timorous.

Brawl and clamour is fo arrant a mark of a
daftardly wretch, that he does as good as call himfelf fo that ufes it.

L'Efirange^

Da'stardy. n.f. [ftorn dajiard.'] Cowardlinefs ; timoroufnefs.

Da'tary. tf.J.

[datarius."}

An officer of

the chancery of Rome, through whofe
hands benefices pafs.
Diel.

To fly off the furface by a violent motion.

;

Drydtn.

Saxon.]
a man infamous

[abaj-tpija,

for fear.

Some ftronger pow'r eludes our fickly will

Icfc.

To Dart. i/. n.

1

Dash. adv. An exprelCon of the fauod of

j^ddifon.

fmart

againft fomething.

He is afraid of letters and charaflers, of note*
and dafiei, which, fet together, do fig^ify nothing.
Brovjn's yulgar Errours.
In modem wit, all printed trafh is
Set otJ'with num'rous breaks and dafiei.
Swift.
j^. Sudden flroke ; blow ; a£l : ludicrous.
Stand back, you lords, and give us leave awhile.
She takes upon her bravely at firft dafi. Shak.

South,

tian emperors.

He whets his tulks, and turns, and dares the war

Now, darting Parthla, art thou (truck,

Milton.

Milton.
An unknown hand ftill check'd my forward joy,

Th' invaders dart their jav'lins from afar. Dryd.
2. To throw; to emit: as, the fun tiarts

Or what ill eyes malignant glances dart.

A

This annual, humbling certain number'd days,
To dafi their p.-ide and joy for man feduc'd.

Drydtn.

Dart. -v. a.

to crofs out.

Pafe.
may Aifpleafe you.
To confound ; to make alhamed fuddenly ; to furprife with fliame or fear ;

The weapons round his hollow temples ring.
t.

;

whole copy extremely, and to a degree that, I fear,

fling,

S^o

Pope.

To da/h over this with a line, will deface the

9.

a fmall proportion.
There is nothing which one regards fo much with
an eye of mirth and pity, as innocence, when it hai
in it a dafi of folly.
Addifm^
mark in writing; a line
, to
3.
note a paufe, or omiffion.

N" 580.

To form or fketch in hafte, carelefsly.

7.

They furious fpring.
Tbomjom*
fomething worfe mingled in

2. Infufion ;

AeldiJ^n.

Several revealed truths are dajhed and adulterated
with a mixture of fables and human inventions.

to range troops

for battle.
The town-boys parted in twain, the one fide
calling themfelves Pompcians, the other Csefarians ; and then darraining a kind of battle, but
without arms, the Cafarians got the over hand.
Careiu^s Survey of Corniuall.
CoraesWarwickjbackingof the duke of York:
Darrain your battle ; for they are at hand. Shak.

The dafi of clouds, or irritating war
Of fighting winds, while all is calm below,

may prevent ill-natured

applications.

la iattaillc]

Collifion.

water dalhed.

Whacum, bred to daJh and draw.

[This word is by

To Da'rrain.

Dash. n.f. [from the verb.]
By the touch ethereal roos'd.

Milton.

of the fluff.
.

Doeg, tho' without knowing how or why,
Spurr'd boldly on, and dafi'd thro' thick and thin^
Thro' fenfe and nonfenle, never out or in. Drjd»

1.

To throw water in flaflies.

3.

yiDARN. "J. a. [ofuncertain original.]
To mend holes by imitating the texture

Thitnfottm

To ruih through water, fo as to make K"

3.

fly.

They that ftand high have many blafts to (hake

War.'i.

And his and my lov'd durliiig,

Un each hand the gu(hing waters play.
And down the roii(|h cafcade, all dafiing, fall.

To break by coUifion.

z.

darling fcience, t09 far prevail ovet j'our mind.

Da'rlinc. n.f, A favourite ; one much

To fly in /lathes with a loud noift,

Z.

A

'Tis not for a generous prince to countenance
oppreflion and injufticc, even in his moft Jarling

Have a care

DAT

DAS

DAS

DATE. ;;./. [datte, Fr. from datum, Lat.]
I.

The time at wliich a letter is written,
marked at the end or tJie beginning.
2.

The

D A tr

D A U

f,The time at which any event Jiappened.
The

3.

Ihall

Wt cpnfcienco

time ftipulated when any thine
^
be done.

daub nor Hatter.

ToDavb. 'V.

His days a \ times are paft.
And my reliance on his tVaftcJ liares

And yet 1 muft.

^ljUJj>!ares Time;!.
lather's promife ties iiic nut to time
j
And bonds without a dale, they fay, are void.

My

J

,

r

End ; conciulion.

4.

'-

And monuments, like men, fubmit to fate.
Duration; continuance.

2.

A coarfe low painter.

Menedula.

Pafe.

ParU ot different fpecies jumbled together, according to the mad imagination of the
dauber,
caufe iaughter.
£,,

Founded in righteoufnefs.

Da'ubry.

a fpecies.

Obl'erve if any hollow or dawh be

Should they apply that fide of the

Not in vain th'induftrious kind
With daubj wax and flow'rs the chinks have

Bintlit.

jobb the edge into the ftuff, and fo

bohteri. Sax.

11. n. [fuppofed by tlie
etymohave been originally to dayen,
or advance towards day.]

To

grow lumi.ious ; to begin to grow
light.
I have been troubled in my
fleep this night
But dawning day new conifort hath infpir'd. 5

1

[dauhtar, Gothick ;

Runick ;

dotter,

...

dohter,

Sbaielpeare.
,
As It began to daiufi,
towards the firft day of
the week, came Mary Magdalene to fee

German dochter, Dutch.]
The female oiFspring of a man or wo;

Da'telesj. aJj. [from date.]
any fixed term.

Without

The fly-flow hours fliall not determinate
The dattUft limit of thy dear eiile. Shakejpeare.
Da tive. adj. [dati'vus, Latin.]

The epithet of the cafe
that fignifies the perfon to whom
any

1. [In grammar.]

thing is given.
2, [In Jaw.] Thofs are termed Jatiwexecutors, who are appointed fuch by
the
judge's decree ; as adminiftrators with
us here in England.
^ylife

To DAUB. -v. a. [dabben. Dutch j dauttr,
French.]

She too for him an ark o( buliulhcs, and
daubed
It with flime and with pitch.
Exmiut.
2.

To paint coarfely.

Hafty daukmg will but fpoil the
piflure, and
to

Ot^ay.

,.

.
I hey fnatched
out of his hands

a lame impcrfcd

Jietc, rudely daubed over with too little

reflcftion.

•

P'^"'-

yi'aut.

.

lo cover with fomething {pecious or
grofs, fomething that difguiles
lies

what it

So fmooth he daubed his vice with (hew of

virfOe,

He iiv'd from all attainder of ful^ect.
Hhaktjp.
4. To lay on any thing gaudily or oftenta-'
tioufly.
Since princes will have fuch things,

rr

with coll.

it is

.

.

land.

Are you at Icilure, holy father, now

„
f hy
L
L
hand
ftrikcs out fome

—

To DAUNT, v. a. [demter. French ; dcmi-

To difcourage ; to fright
to intimidate.
Fairfax, whofe mmt in arms thro' Europe
rings.
And fills all mouths witli envy or with praife,
And all her jealous monarchs with amaze,
And rumours loud, which daunt remotell kings.

I.

u

whore j
S/metimes be loiify, but be never poor.

Crow great by your example, and put on
Sbakefpeare.

Drydcu.
of

:

.

2.

eyes with
Dryden', Vkgd.

fury burn'd.

He, not bjr wants or woes opprcfs'd.
Stems the bold torrent with a dauntlejt
bread.

Dryden,

The utmoft weight of ajBiaion from miniderial
power and popular hatred,

were

almnft

worth

bearing, for the gloi7 of
fucU a daumUa condudt

:«
he has in(*_wn
iimtAr it.
as be
Ihewn under

T)

•

Beginning ;

employ

this day to joy.

Dryden.

^ .
firft rife.

Thefe tender circumftanccs dlffi>fe
a dawn of
lereiiity over the foul.

p^p^^

Such their guiltlefs paflton was.

As in the dawn of time inform'd the
heart
Ot innocence and undiffombling truth.

DAY. «./ [baj, Saxon.]

Thumfot.

The time between the rifing and fetting of the fun, called the artificial
day.
Why ftand ye here all the d.ty idle > Matthew,
Ot night impatient, we demand the day
The day arrives, then for the night we pray
:
Tl he night and day
fiicc.-ffivc come and go,
Ourlafting pains no interruption know.
Blackmore.
Or objeft new
_
;

his glowing cheeks, his

„,

i*t c»»iy ene, therefore, attend the fcntencc

I o Icarch the land, but give

I.

not dejefted ; not difcouraged.
of refuiution.

The time between the firft appearance
of light and the fun's rife,
reckoned
from the time that the fun comes
withia
eighteen degrees of the horizon.
Then on to-morrow's dawn your care

Some pi-efcnces daunt and difcourage us, when

I he dauni/efi fpirit

Dryden,
free defign.

Dawn. n. /. [from the verb.]

Miiton.

GlanvlUe.

of fear.

When life a« akes and dawns at every line, Pote.

Where the ruJe ax, with heaved (Iroke,
Was never heard the nymphs to duurt,
Or flight them from tlieir hallow'd haunt.
Mllttit.
others raile us to a briflc afl'urance.

to give fome

.,

i

Sbahefpeart.

•

i„^,^_
;

In da-wning youth, and fouls fo void
J.

Or Ihall I come to you at evening mafs j?

Pope,

promifes of luftre or eminence.
While we behold fuch dauntlefs worth
appear

dnefi'..

.

Any defcendant.

church.

To begin, yet faintly

3.

The female penitent of a confeflbr.

better

Ut him be daub d with Uce, live high, and

To flatter groCsIy.

1

[.Jn poetry.]

*" '°^'' "'' '" '''' ''3'" "^tu^nd
a,
t""^'^'
With
rhame

fhcy fliould be graced with elegance,
than duuhcd

5.

as the

A woman.

Jacob went out to fee the iaugliers of the

;

To glimmer obfcurely,
A Roman
from the very

ift,
firft dawning of
any notions in his underftanding, hath
this principle conftantly inculcated, that
he muft believe

Papc.

A

,

Aurora datun'd, and Phofbus (hin'd in vain.
2.

Now Aurora, daughter of the dawn.

With rofy luftre purpled o'er the lawn.
daughter in law, or fon's wife.

DA'vKTtEss.adJ. [from</aa«/.]Fearlefs;

upon.

Mattbe-«^

u T ^
All night
I llept, oblivious of my pain
!:,

Your wives, your daughters.
Your matrons, and your maids, could not
fill up
he
ciftern
e>i
1
my luft.
Shakejpeare.

Dryden,

Tf a pi«cire
'a.
J(
is dauhfd with many
bright and
glaring colours, the vulgar admire it
as an excellent

3.

the fepul-

man.

'«r^, Latin.]

make it fo unnatural as muft want falfe lijit
f" " "'^

.

—My leifure ferves me, penfive daughter, now.

To fmear with fomething adheiive.

1

I

happen,
da-wk it. Maxm.

logifts to

lin'd.

Dryden,

T\ '
Da
ughter. n. f.

DAWN.

To

c
L
«.
Some
the gall d ropes with dauby marling bind,
Or fear-doth mafts with flrong tarpawling coats.

:

tool the edge

on, the Iwift coming about of the
work would,
where a fmall irregularity of fluff fliould

Dryden.

To all their dated backs he turns you round
Thefe Aldut printed, thofe Da Sueil has bound.

Moxon,

lies

Shateffeare.

tinous ; adhcfive.

written or done.
'Tit all one, in refpeft of eternal duration
yet
behind, whether we begin the world fo
many millions of ages ago, ot date from the late aera
oj about
fir thoufand years.

in the length.

x\

daubry

T^a'vby. adj. [from daub.] Vifcous;
glu-

[from the noun.] To
note with the time at which any thing
is

Waller,

non.

as this IS beyond our ekment.

<k. a.

The whole alienibly of liis fdlow daius.

An old /oDawk. -v. a. To mark with an inci-

[from daub.]

She works by charms, by IpeUs ; and fuch

Sbaktfpiart.
is

Si»i\ft.

word for any thing artful.

"—They call for daut and quinces in the paftiy.

To Date.

f.

foiong.

workmen for a hollow, rupture, or in-

rj-

n.

li^xdaic!, and trce>, and rocks fliould laft

cifion, in their fluff.

As fine as daubin hands can make it,

nurfe.

Date-tree. »./ See Palm, of which it

Dryden.

A low flatterer.

3.

tree.
Hold, take thefe keys, and fetch more fnices,

lame
bird.

DAWK. n. /. A cant word among the

Hangs a new angel two doors from us,

Milim.
The fruit of the date-

a

When we muft in an inftant pafs to nought. Davie^,
The loud daw, his throat difplaving, draws

tt.

^^„,.

A (ign-poil dauber would difdain to paint

The one-eyed hero on his elephant.
The treacherous tapfter, Thomas,

The name of

I will wear my heart
upon mv fleeve.
For ,/^w, to peck it.
ShakefpeareS Othello.
It death do quench us quite,
we have greatwrong,

Wl;at they called his pifture, had been
drawn
at length by the dauben of almoll
all nations, and
ftill unlike him.
/)^ ^^„.

Our dute to immortality extend ?
Dcnbam.
Then raife.
From the conflagrant mafs, purg'd and refin'd.
New heav'ns, new earth, ages of endlcis daif.

Ihom da^ylus.]

in the Bavarian dialed, having thS
fignification.]

Could the declining ot this fate, O friend,

6.

Shahfftare.

One that daubs.

date\

P

*,

*

from his note j by 7««/*i to be corrupted from daivJ ; the German /«/, 8*d dol

1.

DrydcK.

"^

Fearleffnefs.

Daw. »./ [fuppofed by Sii/iner fo named

:

-

Dauber, n. /. [(xom daub.]

What time would fpare, from fteel receives its

5.

DA't;NTLEs«NEss. »./ [from dauntle/s.l

i-„„,^_

To play the hyprocite

ft.

thii fenfe is not in ule.
I cannot daub it further

Has fmit my credit.

T.

DAY

may be fur«, It will not

he

for,

;

Cafual difcourfe draws on, which
intermits
Our^^ji's work.
m;,,„„^
2. Ine time from noon to noon,
or from

midnight to midnight, called the natural day.

How

DAY
How many hoors bring about the daj.
How many Jayt will finilh up the year. SbahfpLight; fun(hine.

3.

Let us walk honcllly, as in the dty ; not In riotRamans,
ing and drunkenncfs,
Tlwweft yet glimmers with fome ftrcaks aiday:
Now fpurs the lated traveller apace.
To gain the timely inn. Sbakeffearc" : Mattelb.
Around th? fields did nimble lightning play.
Which oftiji'J us by fits, and fiiatch'd the djy :
'Midft this was heard the flirill and tender cry
Of .wcll-plea»'d ghoft3, which in the ftorm did fly.
Vrydin.

Yet are we able only to furvey
Dawnings of beams, and prnmifes of djy.

PrUr.

from other ti;ne an age the time. Jn
this fenfe it is generiUy plural.
;

;

After him reigned Guthclinc his heir.

The juftcft man and trueft in his dap.
I think, in thefe dayi, one honeil

man is obliged

We

In one night, ere glimpfe of mom,

D

His Ihadowy flail hath thrclh'd the corn

That ten daylalourcn could not end.

5. Life : in this fenfe it is commonly plural. He ne-ver in his days bvokt his tuord ;
that is, in his luhale iife.
He was never at a lofs in his dsyi for a frequent

Cjntt Life of Ormonde,

The day of. conteft

;

Da

Belprinkled with daifies.

The dayhhourf, in a country village, has comLech,
monly but a fmall pittance of courage.
Da'ylicht. n. /. [day &nd light.] The
light of the day, as oppofed to that of
the moon, or a taper.

I.et

And make him a grave.

way.

To overpower with light; to hinder
the aftion of the fight by fuddcn lullre.

1.

Fears ufeto be reprefentcd in fuch an imaginary
they rather dazxie men's eyes than
open them.
Bacim*
How ii it that fome wits are interrupted.
That now they daxxled are, now clearly fee ?
fafliion, as

'

Thou flialt buy this dear.

Now go

the contell ; the

battle.
His name (truck fear, his conduft won the day;
He came, he faw, he feiz'd the ftruggling prey.
Rojcommon,

Shalffpeare,

recovered the haven, to the joy of the befiegcd ChrifVians.
Knoltts,
fle-t,

He ftands in dayUgbt, and difdains to hide

An a£h, to which by honour he is tied.
Vi'iW you murder a

Dryden,

man in plain daylight f
Dryden.

Though rough bears in covert feck defence.
White foxes ftay, with feeming innocence ;
That crafty kind with jiayligbt can di^enle.
Dry dm.
If bodies be illuminated by the ordinary prifmatlck colours, they will appear neither of their
own daylight colours, nor of the colour of the
light cait oil them, but of fome middle CLilour between both.
Ncwron^s Opticks.

Davui,

To flrike or furprife with Iplendour.

2.

Thofe heavenly mapes
Will daxxle now this earthly with their blaze
Infutfcrably bright.

Mi/icnS
The places that have either fliining fentiments
or manners, have no occafion for them : i dazxling enprcflion rather damages them, and lirrvej
only to eclipfe their beauty.
Pope4
Ah, friend to daxxlc let the vain defign j
To laife the thought, or touch the heart, be thine.
Pep,:
!

Would you th' advantage of the fight delay.
If, ftriking firft, you were to win the day ?

Dryd.

An appointed or fixed time.

with light ; to lofe the power of iight.
Daxale mine eyes ? or do 1 foe three funs ?
Shakefpeare,

Day-lily. «./ The fame with Aspho-

Come, boy, and go with me; thy fight is young.

del, which fee.

And you fliall read when mine begins to daxxle,

Or if my debtors do not keep their day,
Deny their hands, and then rcfufc to pay,
I

8.

Dryd,

A day appointed for fome commemoration.

The fieU of Agincourt,
Fought on tbe<£>y of Crifpin Crifpianus, Sbakiffi,
9. From day to day ; without certainty or

continuance.
Bavaria h;ith been taught, that merit and fervicc doth oblige the Spaniard but from day to day.

Bacon,

To-day. On this day.
to-day, if ye will hear his voice, harden not
your hearts.
Pfalms,
The part is all by death polTeft,
And frugal fate, that guards the reft,

.'\

Fertlon.

A bed u fed

for idlenefs and luxury in the day-time.
Calling my officers about me, in my branched
velv«t gown ; having come, down from a dayhid,
where 1 have left Olivia deeping.
SbakijfKdre' I tioilftb Nigbi.

Da'ybook. «./. [from fl'ay and ^oo*.] A
tradefman's journal ; a book in which
all the occurrences of the day are fet

Drydcnt

DE'ACON. n.f. [^/<j«;!«/, Latin.]

2.

The

3.

Da'ystar. n. /. [Jay axid Jlar.]
morning ftar.

meant to make her fair, and free, and wife.
Of greatcft blood, and yet more good than great
I meant the dayftar Ihould not brighter rife.
Nor lend like influence from hit lucent fear.
Ben Jonjon,

One of the lowell of the three orders
of the clergy.

1.

I.ikcwife mud thc</f.r««ibe grave.

dawH

the Aril appearance of light.
;
watched the early glories of her eyes,

As men for daybrui watch the Eaftern Ikies.
Drfden.

Dayla'boui. It./, [day And laiour.'l Labour by the day ; labour divided into

cerning dtaconj and widows, are very tmportunely
urged.
Bp. Sandtrfm.

'
) foiidiy ^(k

Milton.

OtjIaboMr wat but an hard and a dry kind ol

9

A fe-

De'aconry. \n,/. [from </f(7i-««.] The
De'aconship. y oiHce or dignity of a
deacon.
1.

dood, Dutch.]
;
Deprived of life exanimated.
The queen, my lord, is dead :
;

——She fliould have died hereafter.
Sbakefpeare^s Maehetb.

to night.

A brute or a man arc another thing when they

In the daytime Fame fitteth in a watch-toVer,
and flicth moft by night j flic rn'mgletli things

done with things not done, and is a terror to great
Bacon.

cities.

My ants never brought out their corn but ia the
ground in the daytime.

from what they arc when dead.
She cither from her hopclefs lover fled.

are alive,

This Indian

;

Ere prime thou haft th' imputed dayivork done.
.

light ;

Fairfax,

Saxon. ]

To

to ftrikc with

too ftrong lullre; to hinder the aft of
feeing by too much light fuddenly in-

all

them,

tl'.at,

miitiiking their

except I'.imfclf, were dead of
Arbuibaott

Without life; inanimate.
All,

True labour in the vineyard of thy lord.

[ bpais,

hu'ijer.

3.

daylabour.

told

courfe, the crew,

^Idiiifcn,

impofed by the day

Hale.

Or with difdainfal glances ibot him dead. Dryden*
2. With o/" before the caufe of death.

Da'ywork. n. /. [day and luori.] Work

troduced.

[{torn deacon,]

male officer in the ancient church.

DEAD. adj. [beab, Saxon

And yet anon repairs his drooping head. Milton.
Da'ytime. n.f. [day and tinu,'] The
time in which there is light ; oppofed

overpower with

daily taflts.
Doth Ood ex»(\ daylabour, light denied,

[In Scotland.] An overfeer of the poor,
And alfo the mailer of an incorporated

company.
De'aconess. n.f,

Sunk though he be beneath the wat'ry floor
So finks the day-Jlar in the ocean bed,

To DAZE. V, a,

iTim, iii.S.

The conftitutions that the apoftles made con-

night when the moon did fliine, and kept it under

dpwn.

Da'ybheaK. a./ \_day dM^ hreak."] The
1

Sacon,

They dance in mifts, and da:cxU with furprirr.

So all ere day/fring, under confcious night,
Secret they Mniih'd, and in order let.
Milton,
The breath of heav'n frcfli-blowing, pure and
fwect,
With dayjfring born, here leave me to refpire.
Milton.

I

By givjfis, bids us live lo-day,

caufc blindnefs.
I dare not truft thefe eyes ;

^

mu!f with patience all the terras attend.

Da'ybed. »./ [day ani. bed

Sbakefpeare,

An overllght maketh the eyes daxzJe, infomuch as perpetual looking againft the fun woul4

rather, furety.
For what art thou,

That mak'ft thyfelf his daysman, to prolong
Tahy Sliiun.
The vengeance picil ?
Da'ysprinc. n.f. [Jay Tcnd/pring.] The
rife of the day ; the dawn ; the firil appearance of light.

To bo overpowered

To Da'zzle. v, n.

The noble thanes do bravely in the war j
Da'ysman. n.f. [day and man,] An old
The day almoft itfelf profefl'es yours.
word for umpire. Ainfworth. Perhaps
Stjkeffeare's Maehetb.
And little is to do.

7.

Sbakefpeare's Cymhelinet

To Da'zzle. -v. a, [See DAZE.]

If ever I thy face by dayligbl fee.
tliy

us

Find out the prettied daxied plot we can.

By this the drooping dayligbl "gan to fade.
And yield his room to fad fucceeding night.
Fuiry S^ecn.

Fairfax,

Poor human kind, ill dex'J in open day.
Err after blifs, ahd blindly mifs their way. DiyJ.
a'z I E D. adj, [rather da^td. See
i s y.]

Milton,

U^codteari!.

anCwer.

eye.

Dayla'bourer. ». /. [from </ay/«^e«r.]
One that works by the day.

They, by dayligbt paffing through the Turks
Fairy ^.

Pc^e*
to acquaint anorlicr who are hi:» friends.
have, at this time of day, better and more
certain means of information than they had.

6.

They famte the gliftering armies, is they Rmif
With quivering beams, which dax'd the wond'rin^

livelihood to 11 man that coutd get tn eftite with
South,
two or three ftrokes of his pen.

Any time fpecified and diftinguiflied

4.

D E A

D A Z

all

but truth, drops dtad-\iara from tht

prcfs.

Like the lad gazette, or like the laft addrefs. Pope.
4. Imitating death ; fenfelefs ; motionlefs.

At thy rebuke, O Ood of Jacob,

both the chaPfalmi.
Anointing of the forehead, neck, feet, and
backbone, we know is ufed for procuring dead
fleeps,
Ba,aru
riot and horfe are cad into a dead flcep.

5.

Uiiaaive;

DE.A

D E A

Dead. «./. Time in which there is rs.

4. It is fometimes ufed in a ludicrony
fenfe, only to enforce the fignification

D E A

.

Unafllve ; motionlefs.
The tin fcid fonietimcs higher, =nj fometimes

•

J,

markablc fliilnefs or gloom ; as at midwinter and midnight.

tower, according to the quick vent and abundance,
Carnv.
or thetiead fale and f;arcity.
Nay, there's a tii-.; when e'en the rolling year
Seems to (land ftill i!eadca\ms are in the ocean.
When not a breath difturbs the droufy main. Lie.
They cannot bear the rfM</ weight of unemployed
time lying upon their hands, nor the uncalinefs it

A

•.

Empty

vacant.

;

This colour often carries the mind away; yea,
it deceiveth

the fenfe; and

it

feemeth to the eye

a (horter diftance of way, if it be all diad and continued, than if it have trees or buildings, or any
other marks whereby the eye may divide it. Buccr..
Nought but a blank remains, a dcadioM fpace,
Drydei.
ftep of life, that promis'd fuch a race.

A

Iron, as foon as
(Iraptways.

To Dead.
7
T- T\ '
fo
De ADEN. 3>

"J,

is

out of the

This motion would tie quickly deadtned by
countermotions.
GlannjUWs ScLpJts Scienfjjica.
We will not oppofe any thhig to them that is

a

fpot of ground which is coveied with trees, that
imiles amidft all the rigours of winter, and gives
U4 a view of the moH gay feafon in the niidH of

hard and ilubtorn, but by a

loft

their force by degrees.

anfwer

of the a^edled nervous fibres, or deftroy the particular acrimony which occafions the pain j or
what deadens the fenfation of the brain, by pro-

Having no refemblance of life.

curing fleep.

At

animated ;

Dead- DO INC. participial aeij, [^eleaei and
eio."]

Deftruftive ;

in the

not

moft elegant forms of fpcech,

lefs

liquors.
left

ditches.

15.

Hudilras.

2.

:

as,

17. [In theology.] The ftate of fpiritual
death ; lying under the power of fin.

You hath he quickened, who were dead in tref-

enemies unto the Turks.

1.

Smiib.

!

!

Fly from her kind embracing arras.
Deaf to her fondcft call, blind to her greateft'

charms.

Knolles.

In a manner refembling the dead.

And alk'd him why he look'd fo deadly wan ?
Dryden.
2.

Dryden,-

1

will

3.

break Pharanh*9 arms, and he fiiall groan

before him with the groaniugs of a deadly wounded

3.

Hope, too long with vain deliifion fed.
Deaf to the rumour of fallacious fame.
Gives to the roll nf death his glorious name. Popt,-

Mortally.

man.

£x. XXX. 24..

Rofc-

Not fo, for once indulg'd, theyfweep the mains
Deaf to the call, or, hearing, hear in vain.

Like dumb Itatiies, or unbrcathing ftones,
Star'd each on other, and look'd deadly pale. Shik.
Young Arcite heard, and up he ran with hafte.

jove faw from high, with juft difdain,

How the Ull trumpet wakci tbs lazy dead,

To counfel deaf, but not to (latiery
Shakefpeare,
Whilft virtue courts them ; but, alas, in vain

Dryden,

De'adly. ad-v,

yif Dead. n. /. Dead men.

dead near the great roads.
Add':fin.
That the dead Ihall rife and live ajain, is b'-yond the difcovery of reafon, and is purely a matter of faith.
Locke,
The row'ring bard had fung, in nobler lays.

Shakefpeare,

Mortal ; implacable.
The Nu.Tiidians, in number infinite, are deadly

2.

will be deaf to pleading and cjiciifes ;

Oh, that men's ears fliould be

As a north wind bur.is a too forward fpiing;

Mj'hef, ii. i.

The dead infpird with vital life again.
Dryden.
The ancient Romans generally buried their

I

Nor tears nor prayers (hall purcliale out abufcs.

Siakefpeare,

Give fjrrow vent, and let ihc fiuiccs go.

Without the power of vegetation
a dead bough.

It has to before the thing that ought tO'

be heard.

Dry mourning will decay more deadly bring,

a dead_/frf.

palfes and fins.

exigence.

Shot from the deadly level of a gun,
Did murthcr her.

under diai walls and dry
Arhuiimi.

16.

We

Hope-

Deftruftive ; mortal; murderous.
She then on Romej cnlls, as if that name.

Without the natural force or efficacy:

as,

fcquencc of their want of hearing.
Unlder,
If any lins afflifl our life
With that prime ill, a talking wife,Till death ihaU bring the kind relief.
mull be patient, or be deaf,
Prhr,Thus you may Hill be young to me,While 1 can better hear than fee :
Oh, ne'er may fortune fiiew her fpltc,
To make me draf, and mend my fight. Stuifti

JIudibras.
."l

To help itfelf at a </«(/-.'(/>.
1.

is

[e/ea/i a.xidL lift

De'adly. «//?. [from dtaii.'\

14. Uninhabited.

Somewhat

Shakefpeare,

The chief defign here intended is to inftruft
fuch a? arc deaf :ijid dumb, and dumb only by con-

And have no power at all, nor Ihift,

Addijon.

ufed of

To their t/rii/' pillows will difcharge their fecrets.

SpCTJjer,

They never care how many others
They kill, without regird of mothers,
Or wives, or children, fo they can
Make up ftujw fierce dead duing man.

when it is not heightened by folemnity of phrafe
13. Taftelefs ; vapid; fpiritlefs:

Sbakejpeart.
Infefted minds

mifchie-

Hold, O dear lord, your dead-doing hand.
Then loud he cried, I am your humble thrall.

How cold and dead does a prayer appear, that is Dead-li FT. n./.
from the facred writings.

killing;

vous ; having the power to make dead.

affefting.

compofed

Wanting the lenfe of hearing.
Come on my right hand, for this ear is deaf,

1.

above, h^ve not been palled or deaded at all. Bjc^n.

Boyie,

not

fo that this reckoning is without any obfervation of the fun, moon,
and liars, and is to be reftified as often
as any good obfervation can be had.

DEAF. adj. [dcof, Dutch.]

The beer and the wine, as well within water as

':t

frigid ;

lee-way ;

ylrbuthntt on Diet.

To make vapid, or fpiritlefs.

2.

'

Dull ;

reftifying all with allowance for drift or

Spe^ator,

cover their diforders by the dead darkncfs of the
Hay-ward.
night.

the fame

That eftimation or conjefture which the
feamen make of the place where a fhip
is, by keeping an account of her way by
the log, by knowing the courfe they
have fleered by the compafs, and by

Burnet's 1'heiry.

Anodynes ars fiich things as relax the tenfion

;

with archangel.

not in the power of lleep to i&Ai^ii or abate.

jiJdifeti.

A weed

Dead-reckoning. »./ [A fea term.]

de.iden

9. Still ; obfcure.
Their flight was only deferred until they might

1 2.

Mortimer,

De'adnettle. n.f.

Our dreams aie great inftances of that aftivity
which is natural to the human foul, and which is

that which is the mod dead and melancholy.

founded in the open air.

Dcadnejs or fiatnels in cyder is often occafioned
by the too free admiflion of air into the vefl'ek.

^

I

Kn-J/ei.

11. Obtufe ; dull; not fprightly : ufed of
founds.
We toc/k a bell of about two inches in diameter
at the bottom, which was fupported in the midll
•f the cavity of the receiver by a bent llick, in
which when it was dofed up, tiie bell fcemed to
found most dead than it did when jull be/ore

Weaknefs of the vital powers; languor j
faintnefs ; inaftivity of the fpirits.
Your gloomy eyes betray a deadiiejs.
And inward languifiiing. Dryden and Lee's Oedipus*
3. Vapidnefs of liquors ; lofs of fpirit.
z.

Holder.

came in tiie<f»</ winter to Aleppo.
deep
' (how, tfaey

a fccond fitting, though I alter not the
draught, I muft touch the fame features over
again, and change the dead colouring of the
DryJer.
whole.

His grace removes tiie det'ett of inclination, by
oft' our natural dcadncjs and
difafleftion
tow.irds them.
Rogers.
taking

a.

Bacon.
It is requifite that the tympanum be tenfe, and
hard llretched, othcrwife the laxnefs of rhat membrane will certainly dead and damp the found.

Mdifin.

De'auness. n.f. [from elead.'\
I. Frigidity; want of warmth; want of

Bacm't Natural Hijiary.

not probable.

8. Dull ; glcwmy ; unemployed.
Travelling over Amanus, then covered with

Orrery,
John. had got Jn impreflion, that Lewis was ('»
deadly cunning a man, that he was afraid to venture himlell alone with him.
Arbulbnot,

ardour ; want of afieftion.

That the found may be extinguilhed or deaded
by difcharging the pent air, before it Cometh to
the mouth of the piece, and to the open air, is

Perfuade a prince that he is irrefiftible, and he

10.

Though deadly weary.

deadeib

fire,

fa tion.

will take care not to let fo glorious an attribute lie

There is fomething unfpeakabiy chearful in

it

To deprive of any kind of force or fen-

1

Baan.

dead and ufc'.cfs by him.

To lofe

To Dead. 'v. n. [from the noun.]
force, of whatever kind.

Ufelefs ; unprofitable.
•J.
The commodities of the kingdom they took,
though they lay dtad upon their hands for want of
»ent.

Mettled fchoolboys, fet to cufl^.
Will not confcl's that they have done enoujh.

Soulh,

In the dejd of the night, when the men and
their dogs were all fallafieep.
L' EJirange,
At length, in dead of nigiit, the gholl appears
Dryden.
Of her unhappy lord.

Lath'

to do nothing at all.

IS

6,

of a word.

After this life, to liope for the favours of mercy
then, is to expefl an harveft in the </Mrf of winter,

4.

Deprived ofnhe power of hearing.
Deaf with the noili;, I took my hafty flight
No mortal courage can fupport the fright. Dryden,.
.

Obfcurely heard.
Nor (ilcnce is within, nor voice exprcA,

Implacably; irrcconcileably ; deftruc-

But a diaf no\h of founds that never ccale ;
Conlus'd and chiding like the hollow roar

tlvely.

Oi tldci receding from cii' ii)fultcd ihsaj. Dryden,-

The

D E A

D E A

D E A
The r?ft were kWi with fullsn JifcAnteflt,
And a tUa/mutmot through the fquadrons went.

I have »li« found, that a piete ofdeal, far thicker
than one would eafily imagine, being purpofcly
interpofed betwixt my eye, placed in a room, and
the clearer daylight, was not only fomewhat tranfparent, but appeared quite through a lovely red,

Dry den.

To Deaf. v. a. To deprive of tlie power
of hearing.

7. Tff

Neither can the IriOi, nor yet the Englilh lords*
think themfelves wronged, nor hardly dealt nilh,
to have that which is none of their own giver, t*
Sfenjer't Irelanjm
them.
Who then (hall guide
His people ? Who defend ? Will they not deal
Wurfe viiib his followers, than with him they

Bi^le en Colon n.

Hearing hath itaf'd our failors ; and if they

Know how to hear, tliere 's none know what to To Deal. v. a, [deelen, Dutch.]
Dome.

fay.

To diilribute; to difpofe to different

1.

A fwarm of their aerial (hapcs appears.

perfons.
Deal thy bread to the hungry, and bring the poor

And, lluct'ring round his temjilcs, dafi his ears.
Dryden.

that are caft out to ihy houic.

To

Te De'afen. v. a. [ from deaf. ]
deprive of the power of hearing.

Dryden,
His lifted arms around his head he throws,
And dealt in whiftling air his empty blows. Dryd.
The bulinefs of mankind, in tliis life, being
rather to 3& than to know, their portion of know-

Drydin,

From ihouting men, and horns, and dogs, he

rUkell.

De'afly. aJv. [from deaf.'\

the art of printing, they would have made an advantage of it, in dealing out their leflures to the
Addif.n,
publick.
It you deal out great quantities of ilrong liquor
lyatis.
to the mob, there will be many drunk.

2. Obfcurely to the ear.

De'afness. n.f. [from deaf.']

Want of the power of hearing ; want

I .

of fenfe of founds.
are dumb by

Thofc who are deaf and dumb,
ih/der.
confequence from their dcafrtej's.
The Dunciad had never been writ, but at his

I'ofe.

ill ?

other.

The nightly mallet (fM/rrefounding blows. Cay.

*•

DEAL. «./. [deel. Dutch.]
Part.

1.

4. To diftribute the cards.

To Deai,. t/. ».

To traffick;

1.

A great deal of that which had been, was now
to be removed out of the church.

2.

This is to drive a wholefale trade, when all other
petty merchants deal but for parcels. Dec. ofPieiy,
They buy and fell, they deal and traffick. South.

With the fond maids in palmiftry he deals.
They tell the Iccret which he firft reveals. Prior.
2, To aft between two perfons; to intervene.

a great

to the

nature of that evidence which

There is, indeed, (lore of matters,

fitter

To weep with them that weep, doth eafe fome

South.

doubt of it.

The author, who knew that fucli a defign as
this could not be carried on without a great deal of
artifice and fophiftry, has puizled and pcrplciad

his caufe.

3.

Addijon.

\

[From the verb to deal."]

The art or

praftice of dealing cards.
How can the mufe her aid impart,

Or in harmonious numbers put
The deal, the (huffle, and the cut ?
^.

[deyl,

of piaet.

A perfon who deals the cards.

3.

De'ai.inc, n.f. [from deal.]
Praftice ; aftion.

1.

Concerning the dealings of men, who adminifler
government, and unto \vhom the execution of that
law belongcth, they have their judge, who fitteth

Two deep enemies.

5,

To Deal

iy.

What thefe are

To treat well or ill.

But this was neither one pope's fault, nor one
he muft write a (lory of the empire, that means to tell of all their dealings in this

print 's delliny :

nor conducts his own underftanding aright. Locke.

To Deal in.

to praftife.
Suiters are fo diftaftcd with dehys and abufes,
that plain-dealing, in denying to deal in fuits at
firft, is grown not only honourable, but alfo gra-

The Scripture forbids even the counten.iAcine
which is a popular way
a poor man in his caufc
of preventing jufliee, thae fome men have dealt in,
;

though without that fuccefs which they propofd
'

-Atterbury.

more difplcafure tlian thofc who deal in

political

matters.

Addijon.

Stuift.
all

True logick is not that noify thing that dels
m difpute, to which the former ages had de.

bafed it.

2.

H'aUs's Logick,

Intercourfe.
It were to be wilhed, that men would promote
the happinefs of one another, in all their private
dealings, among thofe who lie within their inAddijon.
fiiTcnce.

Baccn.

cious.

Raleigh.

kind.

To have to do with; to

be engaged in ;

!

Whofe owA hard dealings teach them to fufpeft
Sbakef^eare.
The thou^^hts of others.

Such an one deals not fairly hy his own mind,
6.

Hocker.

in heaven.

This feems a vitious ule.

Among authors, none draw upon themfelves

Dutch.] Fir-wood, or the wood

A trader or trafficker.

2.

Foes to my reft, and my fweet deep's difturbers,
Are they that I would have thee deal upon. Stak.

to themfelves.

Unflcill'd in all the terms of art ?

1 find it common with thefe fmall dealers in wit
and learning, to give themfelves a title from their
Swift.
firft adventure.

4. To aft in any manner.

Shakeff.

What a deal of cold bufinefs doth a man mifpend
the better part of life in ! In fcattering complilien Jon^m,
ments, and tendering vifits.
The charge fome deal thee haply honour may,i
That noble Dudone had while here he liv'd.
Tatrja*.
Pollibly fome never fo much as doubted of the
fafcty of their fpiritual eftatc ; and, if fo, they
have fo much tlw more teafon, a great deal, to

One that has to do with any thing.

1.

IVbtfin.

be true.

deal;

But forrow flouted at is double death.

De'aler,»./. [from deal,]

Where fraud is permitted and connived at, the

if he will deal clearly and impartially, but that he will acknowledge all'this to

and

Hooker.

labour in.

rendering things white which were not
fo before : a word in little ufe.
All feed is white in viviparous animals, and
fuch as have preparing veflels, wherein it receives
Sroiuns Vulgar Errours.
a manifold dealbation.

honeft dealer is always undone, and the knave gets
Gulliver's Travels.
the advantage.

tion.
I doubt not,

better a great deal for teachers to fpcnd time and

[dealbo, Latin.]

Dealba'tion. n.f. [dealiatio, Latin,]
The aft of bleaching or whitening ;

Bacon.

To behave well or ill in any tranfac-

3,

a.

own credit with both, by pretending

his

greater intcrell than he hath in cither.

Uocker.

1/.

to bleach.

;

Sometimes he that i/m/> betvreen man and man,
raifeth

fcripture

yleldeth.

To whiten

by fpeech than by
letter ; and by a man himfelf, than by the mediaBacon,
tion of a third.

When men's afteflions do frame their opinions,
they are in defence of errour more earned,
deal, than, for the moft part, found believers in
the maintenance of truth, apprehending according

To DEA'LBATE.

It is generally better to deal

:

tuous.

country, to govern the people, eafy to be dealt
with whim they (land in fear.
Hayvsard,
Then you upbraid me ; I am pleas'd to fee
perfe£l,
can
fail
fo
but
like
me
You 're not
I have no Gttd to deal ^oith.
Dryden,

trade.

Hooker,

Quantity ; degree of more or lefs. It
was formerly joined with diiferent words,
to limit its meaning; a.s,fome deal, in
fome degree, to feme amount we now
either fay, a great deal, or a deal without an adjeftivc ; but this is commonly,
if not always, ludicrous or contemp-

to tranfaft bufinefs; to

Sidney,

Gentlemen were commanded to remain in the

DryJen.

were dealt.

I found fuch a deafr.rfi, that no declaration from

King Cbar/es.

If (he hated me, I fltould ki^ow what pallion t»
deal 'with,

;

To give gradually, or one after an-

3.

Svfift,

To contend with.

To Deal wfV/^.

Which Niobe's devoted ilTue felt,

3. Unwillingnefs to hear.
the bifliaps could taice place.

country.
8.

to throw about.
Keep me fr^m the vengeance of thy darts,

amufed

to converfe with me, do jou thinic I had

KcflcA on the merits of the caufe, as well as of
the men, who have been thus dealt -wiib by their

When hiffing through the flties the feather'd deaths

requell, and for his deafnefs j for, had he been able

my time fo

To fcatter

2.

Fofe,

trifles.

Had the great men of antiquity been poflelTcd of

Without fenfe of founds.

1

wards his own people, but he dalt thus alfi luitb
other nations.
TiUuJin,
But I will deal the more civilly 'u/itb his two
poems, becaufe nothing ill is to be fpoken of the
Dryden^
dead.
You wrote to me with the freedom of a'friend,
dealing plainly with me in the matter of my own

Addijen.
ledge is dealt them accordingly.
How Spain prepares her banners to unfold.
And Rome deals out her bleffings and her gold.

flies,

Dcafeu'd and ftunn'd with their promifcuous cries.
Mdifun,

Milton.

dealt y

If a man would have his confcience deal cleariy
viitb him, he mull deal feverely v/iib that.
South' t Scrmonit
God did not only exercife this providence to>

Ifaiab, Iviii. 7.

One with a broken truncheon deals his blows.

But Salius enters j and, exclaiming loud
lor jufVicc, deafem and difturbs the crowd.

Deal nuith. To treat In any man*

ner ; to ufe well or ill.

3.

Me-ifure of treatment ; mode
one treats another.

in which

God's gracious dealings with men, are the aids
and auxiliaries neceffiry to us in the porfuit of
Hammctid.
piety.
4. Traffick ; bufinefi.
The doil ir mull needs die rich J he had great
Svuft,
dealings in his way f 'r many years.

DEAMBULATION. n,f [de^imiulatio,
Latin.]

The aft of walking abroad.
Dii'ambu-

D E A

D E A

Dia'mbulatory. adj. [deamBule, Lat.]
Relating to the praftice of walking abroad.
DEAN. n./. [dte^/ius, Latin ; t/oyen, Fr.]
From the Greek word Jixa j in English, ten

De'arbought. adj.

Dryden.

Of Venus' dearlings, through her bounty bleft.

4.

this, not to fuft'er a

between them two.

Stvift,

DE'AKNLY.ad'v. [beojin. Sax.] Secretly;
privately; unfeen.
Obfolete.
At laft, as chanc'd them by a foreft fide

~"Oh, no, he loves me, and he holds me dear,

To pafj, for fuccour from the fcorching rav,

Sbakejptare.

They heard a rueful voice, that dearn/y cried
With piercing (krieks.
Sfenfcr.

The dear, dear name ibe bathes in flowing tears,
Hangs o'er the tnmb.

Dearth. n.J'. [from dear.]
I.

P""-

:

to

z.

is

ftrewed

with

Want

;

By longing for that food fo long a time.

Of every tree that in the garden grows.

_
3.

Millcn,

,

Barrennefs ;

(lerility.

The French have brought on themfclves that
dearth of

and narrownefs of imagination,
which m.iy be obfervcd in all their plays. Dryden.
plot,

Te Dearti'culate. -v. a. [de and articuius, Latin.] To disjoint ; to difmem-

Stakefpeare' t Tuui Andromcui.

Dear.

n. /.

A word of endearment; DEATH, n.f. [hiz-f, Saxon.]

darling.

.

That kifs
1 carried

from thee, dear j and my true lip

Math virgrn'd it e'er fincc. UtakeffeareiCfrklanut.
Co, dair ; euch minute doet ntw danger bring,
Dry den.

V«L. I.

All the endca%'ours Achilles ufed to meet with
Hettor, and be the death of him, is the intrigue
which comprehends the battle of the lafV day.
Broome's Vicit} of Epic Poetry,

[In poetry.]

9.

The inflrument of death.

Deaths invifible come wing'd with fire;
They hear a dreadful noife, and ftraight expire.

Dtydm,
Sounded at once the bow, and Aviftly flies
The fcather'd death, and hiU'cs thro' the (kles,
Dryden^
Oft, as in airy rings they (kirn the heath,

The clam'rous lapwings feel the leaden death.
[In theology.]
torments.

Damnation ; eternal

We pray that God will keep us from all fin and
wickcdnefs, from our

gboftly

evcrlafting death.

enemy, and from
Church Catcchljm.

De'ath-bed. n.f. [death and bed.] The
bed to which a man is confined by mor;

Thou art on thy death-hed. Shakefpeare's Othellt.
Thy death-hed is no lefl'er than the land
Wherein thiiu lieft in deputation fick.
S bate/peat e's R'li'har.l 11,
Thefe are fuch things as a man fiiall rcroemker
with jiiy upon his deathUed; fuch as {hall chc.-Y
and warm his heart, even in that laft .iiid bitter
agony.
South s Sermons..
Then round our death-bed ev'ry friend fliouli
run.
And joy us of our conqucft early won. Dryd.Fah.

A

death-ted figure is certainly the muft humbling fight in the world. Collier on the ya'ue
of Life.
deathbed repentance ought not indeed to !if
negleftcdj^becaufe it is the laft thing that we

A

The extinftion of life ; the departure
of the foul from the body.
He is the mediator of the New Teftament, that
ky meani of death, for the redemption of the tranfgrefliom, they which arc called might receive the
promife of eternal iiiheritanct.

Addijcn.

Sweet foul, take heed, take heed of perjury
Sbakefp.

Eat freely with glad hcirt; fear here no dearth.

S^me dear caule

countj-lefiioni,

tal ficknefs.

need ; famine.

Pity the dearth that I have pined in,

Haft made thine enemies ? Shak. ^welfth Night.
Let IIS return,
And ftrain what other means is left unto us
In our dar peril.
Sbakejfeare't Timon.

Will in concealment wrap me up a-while
When I am known aright, you fliall not grieve
Lending me this acquaintance Skak. King Lear.
Would I had met my dtartft foe in heav'n.
Or ever I had feen that day. Shakijfeare'i Hamlet.
Thy other binifli'd fon, with his dear fight
Struck pale and bloijdlefs.

Bacon.

beggars ; but
dcartbi are common in better climates,
and our
evils here lie much deeper.
Stuift.

their

Whom thou in terms fo bloody, and fo dear.

of

There have been terrible years deartht of corn,
and every place

2 Kings, iv. 40.
laft

widow woman.
Deftroyer.

10.

the kingdom, to furnilh us with corn from foreign

Pope.

O thou man of God,

Pope.

Scarcity which makes food dear.
In times of dearth, it drained much coin out

as, a dezr year.
3. Scarce ; not plentiful
4. It feems to be fometimes ufed in Shake/peare for deer ; fad ; hateful ; grievous.
thee

8.

Scutb.

fcen in the dearnefi of corn.

fo in

Bacon.

where he would go to fee juftice done to a poor

Bater..

Landlords prohibit tenants from plowing, which

mercies.

He caught his death the

Scarcity ; high price.
is

To feed on ven'fon when it fold fo dear.

They cried out, and faid,
there is death in the pot.

He who hates his cighbour mortally, and wifely
too, muft profefs all the dtarnejs and
friendfliip,
with readincfs to fcrvc him.
2.

man of death to live.

Caufe of death.

7.

as to a goddefs, in refpefl of the great dear-

nefi of friendihip

and rank of a dean.

Valuable ; of a high price ; coftly.
What made dircQors cheat the Soutli-fca year ?

As in manifcfting the fwert influence of his
mercy, on the feverc ftrokc of hisjuftice;

The whole fenate dedicated an altar to f ricnd-

Shakeffcare.

Addifon'i 0-vtd.
And the laft joy was dearer than the reft. Pofe.

lawfully.

to hide.]

Shakefpeare.

The houfe of a dean.

What foolilh boldiiel's brought

on j

heart hath holp to eft'edl your enfuing marriage.

fliip,

Beloved ; favourite ; darling:

When it is free

My brother holds you well, and in deamefs of

Your brother Glo'rter hates you.

3.

dote

See Darn.
D^'arness. n /, [from dear.]
1. Fondnefs; kindnefs ; love.

Take her by the hand, aw«y with her to the

I .

What manner of death's head 'twill be.
From that frefli upper Ikin,
The t;a2er's joy, and fin.
Suckling.
6. Murder ; the aft of deftroying life un-

To mend clothes.

trouble,

DExAR. adj. [beep, Saxon.]

If I gare now, 'tis but to fee

Dryden.

Inftead of the deans make the Jtanery double. Staifl.

office

ftill

Te Dearn. <y. a. [byjinan. Sax.

Put both deans in one ; or, if that's too much

The

Shakefpearet

and then alfo bought dearly

My father dotes, and let him

The revenue of a dean.

deanery, and difpatch it quickly.

I had rather be married to a death's head, wiih
a bone in his mouth, thai to either of thcfo.

At an high price.

;

Clarendon.

De'anship. ». / [from dean.]

a flceleton.

For the unqueftionable virtues of her perfon and
mind, he loved her dearly,
Ifotlon.

He buys his mifttefs dearly with his throne.

Exckiel, xxviii. 8.

The image of mortality reprefented by

J.

Dryden,

of the

Thou Ihalt die the deaths of them that are (lain
in the niidft of the leas.

With great fondnefs.

Stakefp,

The manner of dying.

Sfenfer,

,

The dean and canons, or prebends, of cathedral

thapel-royal.

3.

In fwinlfti fleep

De arlv. ad-v. [from dear.]

It is rarely bought,

Sbakefpeare.

Their drenched natures lie, as in a death,

And corps, and fwords, and (hiclds, on Tybcr born.

deanery

In riddles and affairs of d.atb ?

The Hate of the dead.

3.

divdl.

He could no longer keep the

How did yoo data
To trade and trafficfc with Macbeth,

Favourite.
They do feed on neftar, heavenly wife.
With Mercules and Hebe, and the reft

Arches, the dia* of St. George's chapel at Wind-

De'anert. »./. [from dean.l
1. The office of a dean.

.,

Dearling. «./ [now written //arZ/w^.]

for, and the dian of Backing in ElTcx.

to thofe places who are fit for that purpofe. Bacon.

From the firft moment of his vital breath, '
W^den,
2. Mortality; deftruaion.

To his laft hour of unrepenting death,

Rofcortmcr.

enough with fuch a fine.
Bacon.
Turnui fliall dearly pay for faith forfworn

churches, were of great ufc in the church; they
were not only to be of counfel ^ith the bifliop for
his revenue, but chiefly for government in caufes
Ufe your beft meant to prefer fuch
ecclefialiicai.

He muft his afls reveal.

Forget not what my ranfom cofl.

2.

Sbaktfpedre.

Shakefpeare's Juliut Cxfar,

Nor ict my dearbought foul be loft.

1.

numbers,

odd

Death, a ncccrtary end.

Will come when it will come.

Milton.
Such dearbougbt blefiings happen ev'ry day,
Becaufe we know not for what things to pray.

tion.

2.

[dear and bought.]

Of Par^dife, dearioughl with bfting woe.

Portrgon.

Thi» word is alfo applied to divers, that are
chief of certain peculiar churches or chapels ; as
the dm* of the king's chapel, the dean of the

divinity in
either in nativity or death.

Drydcit.

O fleeting joys

;

As there are two foundations of cathedral
churches in England, the old and the new (the
new are thofe which Henry VIII. upon fuppreflion
of abbeys transformed from abbot or prior, and
convent, to dean and chapter) fo there are two
means of creating thefe titans ; for thofe of the old
foundation arc brought to their dignity much like
bifliops, the king fiift fending out his (fgt J'elirt
to the chapter, the chapter then chuCng and the
bi&op confirming them, and giving his mandate
to inftal them* Thofe of the new foundation are,
by a fhortcr courfe, inftallcd by virtue of the king's
letters patent, without either election or confirma-

They fay there is

Purchafed at an high price.

becaufe he was anciently fet over ten canons or
preberdaries at lead in feme cathedral church.
.^yTifft's

D E A

See, my dear.
How lavift nature has adorn'd the year.

Hib.'ix, 15.

cm

''''•

Atlerhi^y.

Fame can never make ut lie down conlcntcily
on a death-bed.

Pope.

De'athful. adj. [death ^Ti^ full]

Full
offlaughterj dcftruftivc; murderous.
3

P

Voir

Your eraclt]r

w

'<«'»> »•

DEB

DEB

DEB

Not fo ftriaiy hath our Lord impos'd
Labour, aa to debtr us when we need
Refrelhment, whether foo«i, or talk between,
Mihn.
Food o( the mind.
_
Clv'lity, intended to make us eafy, is employed
diiarring
in layir-.g chains and fetters Tlpon us, ip
lis of our wi(hes, and in cr0(ring our moft reafonSwift.
able dcfires.

y<™ would fpare hit

life for many dtcthfut torments.

Sidnty,

Time itfelf, urde» the Jeatb/nl fliide oS whole
wings all things wither, hath wafted that lively
virtue of nature in man, and beads, and plants.
Ra/eirh.
that

^tood, death, and diattful deeda, are i»
ni'ife,

Mi/ieti.
Ruin, dctlruilion at the utmoll point.
Thefe eyes behold
roird.
princes
priocei
on
The Jtatbful Icene ;

•

Homer intended to teach, that plelfdit and (enfuality debafe men into beads.
Brvme m the Odyffcy.
As much as you raife fiUer, you iehaft gold,

never-dying; everlalling.
God hath only immoruUty, thougli angels and
Bcylt.
human fouls be dfaihir/s,
tal j

for they are in the condition of

two things put in

To make mean

_

;

to fink into

mean-

nefs ; to make defpicable ;
It is a kind of taking God's nante in vain, to
dttaje religion with fuch frivolous dilputes.
to degrade.

Ptior.

mo-

fembling death ;

ftill

tionlefs; placid;

calm; peaceful; un-

A man of large pofTcllions has not leifuie to

hor-

confidcr of every flight expence, and will not de-

diilurbed ; refembling either the
rours or the quietnels of death.

A
A diathlikt deep
Mihon.
A gentle wafting to immortal
that in them dwclh,
On feas, on earth, and
H^aller.
A dtathliki quiet and deep ulcnce
!

bafi himfelf to the management of every trifle.
Dry den.

Reftralning others, yet himfelf not free;

Made impotent by pow'r, dcbas\ihy dignity. Dryd.
3. To fink

to vitiate with meaniiefs.
He ought CO be careful of not letting his fabjed
'drhafe his ftyle, and betray him into a meannefs of

fife 1

all

fits,

Pofe.

Death's-door. [death and</«er.] A near
approach to death ; the gates of death,
It is now a low phrafe.
srt'Aai a,ht.
I m\fclf knew a perfon of great fanftily, who

De'athsman.

To adulterate

;

by

rated and dchafid in

times and troubles of
Hale.
Words fo deias'd and hard, no ftone
Was hard enough to touch them ou.
Hudiiras.
the

king Stephen.

[from debafe. ] The
afl of debaiing or degrading ; degrada-

He had no other dialhjman.

to a goat or boar.

tion.
It is a wretched d/lafrment of that fprightly fa-

Sbakeffeart.

Deba'ser.

SbakeJI>eari:.

and is fupcrlHti-

The folemn deathviatch click'd the hour (he

to controverfy.
The Flench requefted, that the debatable ground,
and the Scottifh hoftages, might be relloied to thi-

Watls.

To DEA'URATE. -v. a.

[deauro. Latin.]

DEBATE, n.f. [dekat, French.]
a controverfy.
1. A perfonal difpute

De ai/ra'tion. n, /. [from deaurate,]

to fubmit to their judgments, and receive theii

tin.]

A raging; a madnefs.

opinion in debate, is to require the adverfary to
admit what they allege as a proof, or to aflign a
better.
Locke.
It is to dlft'ufe a light over the underftanding,
in our enquiries after truth, and not to furni(h the
tongue with debate and controverfy. ff^atti^s Logick.

Did.

yo Deba'rb. -v. a. [from </? inA barha,
Latin.]

To deprive of his beard. Dia.

9"a Deba'r.k. -v. «.

[debarquer,

French]
Dia.

[from i/jr.]

To ex-

To difembark.
Vo Deba'r.

"v.

a.

clude ; to preclude ; to
any thing ; to hinder.

(hut out

from

2.

A quarrel

a

contefl : it is not
ofed of hoAile contefl.
;

now

Rattigb'i EJfayt.

To corrupt with lewdncfs.

2.

Men fo diforderM, fo debauched and bold.
That this our court, infefted with their mannerSf
Shews like a riotous inn. Sbakefpeare^t KingLcar*
3. To corrupt by intemperance.

No man's reafon did ever dilate to him, that it
is reafonable for

him to debauch himfelf by intem-

peiance and brutl(h fenfuality.

Tilhifcn.

Deba'uch. n.f [from the verb.]

A fit of intemperance.

1.

He will for fome time contain himfelf within
the bounds of fobriety ; till within a iitrle while
he recovers his former ^.-^dArii, and is well again,
and then hib appetite returns.
Calaty.
2,

Luxury

;

excefs ; Icwdnefs.

The (iiiV phylicians by debauch were made;
Excefs began, and (loth fudains, the trade. Dryden,

A

».

f

[from

dcfbaiiche,

French. ]
lecher ; a drunkard ; a
man given to intemperance.
Could wc but prevail with the greated debcucbeet
amongrt us to change their lives, we (hould tind it
no very hard matter to change their judgments.
South*

Now, lords, if heav'n doth givj fuccefsful end

lewdnefs ; a corrupter.

Deba'uchbry. «./ [from debauch.] The
praftice of excefs ; intemperance ; lewdnefs.

Oppofe vices by their contrary virtues ; hypocrify by fober piety, and debauchery by temperance.

SpratI,

Thefe magidrates, indcad of lc(rening enormities, occafion jud twice as much debauchery a>
there would be without them.
Swift.

Tu this debate that bleedcth at our doors.

Deba'uchment. n.f [from debauch.]

We will our youth lead on to higher helds.

The aft of debauching or vitiating
corruption.
They told them ancient dories of the ravKhment

And draw no fwords but what arc fan^ified. Shak.

The fame boata and the fame buildings are
found in countries deiarrrd from all commerce by
vopalTabte mouacaini« lalces, and deferts.

debauched and hardened, before he can arrive to
South*
the height of (in.
This it is to counfel thing! that are nnjuft
fird, to debauch a king to break his laws, and then
to feek protection.
Dryden's Sfanijh Friar,

who feduces others to intemperance or

;

The aft of gilding.

;

Deba'ucher. n.f. [from debauch.] One

A way that men ordinarily ufc, to force others

DeBacch a'tion. n.f. [dthacchalio, La-

To corrupt to vitiate.
A man mud have got his confcience thoroughly

Uayward.

Scots.

Z)/<S.

To gild, or cover with gold.

dtbacchari , Latin.]
1 .

Dbbavche'e.

table ; that which is, or may be, fubjeil

mily by ravens, and little worms, which we thereMifers are muckworms, (ilkworms beaus.
Pope.
And dcalb-wauhii phyficians.

To DEBA'UCH. -v. a. [defiaucher, French;

He that

Deb a'table. a//?', [from debate."] Difpu-

We learn to prefage approaching death in a fafore call a dialbioatcb.

[from debafe.^

of perlbns.

Cay.

died.

».f.

A difpa-

tant 5 a controvertift.

Government of the 7onguc.

debafes ; he that adulterates j he that
degrades another ; he that finks the
value of things, or deflroys the dignity

De'athwatch. n.f. [death and •watch.'\
An infeft that makes a tinkling noife
cufly imagined to prognollicate death.

Skakrfiieare^

Deba'ter. n.f. [from debate."]

ti. /.

culty, the tongue, thus to be made the interpreter

like that of a watch,

He Ihould the bearers pu t to fudden death

Here do you keep a hundred knights and fqaires^

[death and man.']
Executioner ; hangman ; headfman ; he
that executes the fentence of death.
He 's dead ; I 'm only forry

fweet young

troverfy ; deliberation.
Without debatemtm further, more or lefs.

Loekc,

to leflen in value

Contefled ; occafioning

Deba'tbment. n.f. [from deb^e.] Con-

He reformed the coin, which was much adulte-

n. f.

prince.

[Of things.]
quarrels.

bafe admixtures.

L Eflrangc. D E B a's E M E N T.

As diathjmm you have rid this

tious.
2.

u^(/<i'/o«.

due value, that Ic wholly dtbafei it.

4.

was affliaed to death's-door with a vomiting.
Taylor s H^orthy Comtnutikartt
There was a poor young woman, that had
brought herfelf even to deaib's-dxr with grief for
herfick hulband.

"]

Hunting after arguments to make good one .'Jc
of a quefiion, and wholly to refufe thofe which
favour the other, is fo far from giving truth its

and round her throws

A dcalhlikt (lumber, and a dread repofc.

Tmler.

DEBA'TEfVL. etdj. [from debate.
Quarrelfome ; conten1. [Of perfons.]

;

exprc(fionrf

fell.

Black melancholy

He prefcnts that great foul Jeialing upon tha
fubje£t of life and death with hit intimate friends.

Hooker.

Why doft thou let thy brave foul lie fuppreft
In diathliki (lumbers, while thy dangers crave
Crajhaio.
waking eye and hand ?

To difpute.

Locke.

falls.

2.

De'athlike. adj. [death iXiA. hie.] Re
gloomy ;

Your fev'ral fuiti
Have been confider'd and debated on. Shakeffteiret

opfofite fcales ; as much as the one rifes, the other

,

;

To deliberate.

1.

2.

ftate.

De'athless. aJj. [from deaiL] Immor-

While dcathltfi charity remains.

To Deba'te. v. n.

To DEBA'SE. 'V. a. [from bafe.']
1. To reduce from a higher to a lower

Pcff.

Their temples wreath'd with leaves that ftill
renew J
For dtathtifi laurel is the viflor's due. Drydtr..
Faith and hope thrmfelves (hall die.

t)eh«f thy caufe with thy neighboar hlmfclff
and difcover not a fecret to another,
Prcverht, xxt. 9
He could not debate any thing without fiime
commotion, even when the argument was not of
Clarendm^
moment,

'Tis thine to ruin realms, overturn a (late;

Betwixt the deareft friends to raife debate. Drydeit.

To Deba'te. v. a. [debatre, French.] To
controvert ; to difpute ; to contelt.

of chade maidens, or the dehauchment of nations,
or the exttejae poverty of learned perfuns.
itayhr'i Rule ofLm'mg Holy.

T»

DEB
r»DEBE'L.

DEC

Iv.a.

[Mello, LaroDEBE'LLATE. J tin.] To conquer;
to overcome in war : not now in ufe.
It doth notablj( _; forth the confcnt of all nations and 4g<:s> in' the approbation of the extirpating 3dA tlM.'ating ot glints, monfters, and foreign
lyr-rnts,

but as meritorious
Bacon^s Haty H^ar.
Him long of old

Thnu didft dtbd, and down from heaven caft
With all his a.niy.
Mtltcn.
E B E L L A ' r I o N . ti. /. [ from dehcUatw,
Lat.] The a^ of conquering in war.

D

Takes horfe, and in a mighty fret
Rides day and night.
2.

DenK'NTURE. n.f. \_iebentur,'Lzx. from
debeo.^

A writ or note, by which a

Stvifi.

But like a man he died.

;

To Debt ii

Than I (land dtbtrd to this gentleman.

De'btor.

To behead.

1.

To DECA'Y. 'v. n. [decheoir, Fr. from de
and cadere, Latin.] To lofe excellence
to decline from the ftate of perfeftion
j

Sbakifp.

n.f. [debitor, Latin.]

to be gradually impaired.

He that owes ibmething to another.
I

ai.1

debtcr both to the

"The laonarch oak,

Greeks and to the Bar-

Thrfv centuries he grows, and three he ftayj
Supreme in ftate, and in three more decays. Dryda
The garlands fade, the vowi are worn away

barians, both to the wife and tj tlie unwifc.
Bi'jtn. \.

14.

One that owes money.
I'll

So dies her love, and fo my hojies decay.

bring your latter hazard back again.

AnJ little would be left you, 1 'm afraid.

And thanklujly reft debtor for tlie firit.

If lU your debts to Greece and Rome were paid.

If he bis ample palm
Should haply on ill-fated (boulder lay
Ot' debtor, ftrait his body, to the touch
Obliequious, as whilom knights were wont.
To foroc enchanted caiHc is conveyed*
Philips.
There died my fatlier, no man's debtor ;

De'bile. adj. [dibiUt, Lat.] Weak; feeble ; languid ; faint ; without ftrength ;
imbecile ; impotent.
have not wafli d my nofe that bled.

Skakcjf.

To Deca'y.

Shakeftearr.

Brown' i Vulgar Errairs,

and of no good education.
Clarendon,
Decayed by time and .wars, they only prove
Their former beauty by your former love. Dryden,
In Spain our fprings, like old men's children, be
Deray'd ind wither'd from their infancy. Dryden,
It is fo ordered, that almoft every thing which
corrupts the foul decays the body.
ikddifon,

Deca'y. n.f. [from the verb.]
Decline from the

1.

The fpirits being rendered languid, are incapable Debulli'tion. n. /. [debullitio, Lat.] A
bubbling or feething aver.
Diii.
Harvey on Confumpticns,

Debilita'tion, «. /. [from Jtbilitatio,
Latin.] The aft of weakening.
The weak ncfs cannocrcturn any thing of ftrength,
honour, orfaiety to the head, but a dibililatiim aiid
ruin.

to the inconvenicncies of too ftrong a perfpiration, which are ddility, faintnefs, anrf fometimes

fudden death.

jiriui/jnot.

DEBONA'iR.
Elegant;

<Jrt>'.

[debcBttmre. French.]

well-bred; gentle;
an obfolete word.

civil;

complaifant :

Crying, let be that lady deicnair,

To battle, if thyu mean her love to gain.

Spenjer,

ZephyT me: her once a-maying;

So buxom, blithe, and dehonair.

Milium.
The nature of the one is debonair and accoftable ;
«f the other, retired and fuprrcilious ; the one

quick and fprightful, the other flow and faturnine.
H.-wePt ysca! lorejl.
And (he that was not only palTing fair,
But was withal difcrcct and dtbinj}r,
Ref .Iv'd the palTive d fttiiie to fulfil.
Dryden.

[from deboaair.]

Elegantly ; with a genteel air.
DEBT. n.f. [dehilum, Latin; dette, Fr.]

That which one man owes to another.
There was one th:vt died grea;ly in debt : Well,
fays one, if he be gone, then he hath carried five
hundred ducau ofmiae with him into the other

*oM,

Sacon'i /ifophliegnti.

The dfit nf ten thoufand lalcnu, which the fervant owed the king, was no flight ordinary fum.
Duppa't DevbUont.

To this greJt lofs a fea of tears is due
Bui the whuU debt out to be paid by you.

Through the defefts of age, were crimes of youth.
Denbantm

ten.

By reafon of the tenacity of fluids, and attritioa

Men were not only out in the number of fome

of their parts, and the w^aknefs of elafticity in

days, the latitude of a few years, but might be
wide by whole olympiads, and diiers decades of
years.
Brown's Vulgar Trrc-Jrs.
We make cycles and periods of years j as decades,
centuries, and chiliads, chiefly for the ufe of computations in hiftory, chronokjgy, and aftronomy.

thlder on Time.
All rank'd by ten ; whole dtcadet, when tlicy

folids,

is

much more apt to be loft than
Newton,

Each may feel increafes and decays.

And fee now cleaver and now daiker days.

Pope,

Taught, half by reafon, half by mere decay.
To welcome death, and calmly pafs away. Pope,
i.

dine,

Mull want a Trojan flave to pour the wine. Pope.

Dt''cADENCY. n.f. [^decadence, French.]
Decay fall.
Di^i,
De'cagon. n.f. [from SUa., ten, and

motion

got, and is always upon the decay.

The effefts of diminution ; the marks
of decay.
They think, that whatever is called old muft
have the decay of time upon it, and truth too were
lisble to mould and rottcnnefs.
Locke,

yumix, a corner.]

Declenfion from profperity.

3

And if thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in
decay with thee, then thou flialt relieve him.

A plain figure in geo-

metry, having ten fides and angles.

FiU'J her with thee, a daughter fair.

I.

Shakrfpeare,

[lixx, Gr. decas, Latin.]

DieH.

;

Theu recreant knight, and fnon thyftif prepare

Debona'i«lv. adv.

What comfort to this great daeiy may come,
Sliall be applied.

The fam of ten ; a number containing

Having the top cut off.

Deca'de. »./.

I

C

of perfeftion}

She has been a fine lady, and paints and hides
Her decajs very well,
Bin Jonjon,
And thofe decays, to fpeak the naked truth.

Latin.]

Debi'lity. »./ [debililas.Ltil.] Weaknefs ; feeblenefs J languor; faintnefs ;
imbecility.
Methinks I am partaker of thy paflion.
And in thy cafe do glafs mine own </<ii/iry. Sidney,
Aliment too vaporous or perfpirable will fubjefl

ftate

ftate of depravation or diminution.

Decacu'minated. adj. [dicacuminetus,

KingCharlii.

Bacon.

He was of a very fmall and decayed fortune,

of purifying the blood, and deiiJlrdttd in attraclii.g
nutriment.

Pope,

to bring

the reft of the ftock.

One fide pf an account book.
When I look upon the debtor fide, I find fuch
innumerable artic es, that I want ariihmetick to
caft them up ; but when I look upon the creditor
fi:le, 1 find little more than blank paper.
AJdijon.

In the lull: of the eye, the luft of the flefli, and
the pride of life, tbey feeaied as weakly to fail as
their dtbilUaud pofti:rity ever after.

;

Cut off a (lock of a tree, and lay that which
you cut off to putrefy, to fee whether it will decay

Swift.
3.

To impair

a.

Infirmit;., that</«fflyf the wife, doth evermaktf
better the fool.
Shakejpeare,

centuries, was, after the fet time for paynieiiC, no
choice but either to pay, or be the creditor's Have.

To DEBl'LITATE. -t/. a. {debilito, La'tin.]
To weaken ; to make faint ; to enfee-

-v.

to decay.

And there I'll die, nor worfe, nor better.
Pepc.
The cafe of diitott in Rome, for the firft four

Or fuilM iomzd^ile wretch, which without note

ble ; to emafculate.

from the lees.
To D E c a'p I T a T E. f. a. [decapiio, Latin.]

not found.] Indebted; obliged to.
Which do amount to three odd ducats more

2.

There 's many ell'e have done.

Deca'nter. «./ [(iota decant.] A glafs
veffel made for pouring off liquor clear

Shait/j>eare's Marheih.

DE'sTED./art. [from debt.

Have ieS^>.x^\x dihentura on your fame ;

I

clear.

That which any one is obliged to do or
Your fon, my lord, has paid a foidier's debr
He only liv'd but till he was a man.

debt is claimed.
You moJcra wits, fliould eaclr man bring his
ciainiy

Decanta'tion. n./. ysutntation, Fr.]
The aft of decanting or pouring off

fuffer.

not only as lawful,

even of divine honour.

DEC

Swift, a thoufand pounds in deif.

to Mofes.

The commands of God are clearly revealed both
in the decalogue and oilier parts oi facred writ.
Hamtnotid.

TiDECA'MP. or. n. [decamfer.fiench.)

K^al/tr.

That, from your firft of difference and deca<i.
Have foUow'd your fad fteps, Shakejp. King Lear.

The caufe of decline.

4.

He that fceketji to

be eminent amongft all*

men, hath a great talk ; but that if ever good for
the publick :

but he that plots to be the only figure
among cyphers, is tlie decay of a whole age. Bacon.

To fliift the camp to move off.
Deca'yer. ».
[itom- decay,]
Deca'mpment. n.f. [Uomdecamf.'] The
which caufes decay.
;

aft of fliifting the camp.
To DECA'NT. v. a. [decanto, Lat. dfca»/«r, Fr.]
To pour off gently by incli-

nation.

Take ajua foriii, and dilTolve in it ordinary
coined filver, and pour the coloured folution into
twelve timei ai much fair water, and tfcicn decani
or filtrate the mixture, that it may be very clear.
Boyle.

Dtcant hit wine, and carve his beef.

That

/".

They attend him daily a their chief,

;

Levit, XXV. 35.

I am the very m«n

De'calogue. n.f. [ofxa?,o>©-, Greek.]
The ten commandments given by God

Your water
dead body.

it

3 lore decayer of your

whorfon ,

Shekefpeare' s Hamlet,

DECE'ASE. «./ {decejfut.h^u] Death;
departure from life.
Lands are by human law, in fome places, after
the owner's deceafe, divided unto all his children
j
fome, all defcendeth to the eldcft fun. Hooker,

in

To Dec£''ase. v. «. [decedo, Latin.]
die ; to depart from life.
He tells us Arthur is deceas'd to-oight.

Srvifl.

Tm

Sbakefptari,

3P a

'

YoM,

DEC

DEC

DEC
You fhall <li<

To mock

4..

Tw'ce now, where others, that mortality
In her fair arms holds, (halt but once diceefu

;

to fail.

5.

made to pafs

for truth.

My lips fliall not fpeak wickednefs, nor my
tongue utter Jaceit.
Jtli, xxvii. 4.
Stratagem ;

2.

Decb'iver.

artifice.

His demand

vice ; all manner of craft, fubtilty, guile,
fraud, wilinefs, fleightnefs, cunning,
covin, collufion," praftice, and offence,

deceive another man by any
means, which hath no other proper or
Co-ivell.
particular name but offence.

«fed to

Dece'itful./t^'. [deceit ind full."} Fraudulent ;

full of deceit.

I grant him bloody,
Luxurious, avaricious, fi\k,dect\tfiil. Sbaitjfeare.
The lovely young Lavinia once had friends.
And fortune fmil'd, </««'//»/, on hetbirth. TUmfon.

Dece'itfully.

[from

ad'v.

deceitful,']'

Fraudulently ; with deceit.
Excrcife of form may be datUfuUy difpatched of

UMcr,

One foot in fca, and one on Ihore

To one thing conftant never.

Shakeffeare.
As for Perkin's difmiflion out of France, they

^

ftruments of conveying their thoughts one to another, are not the proper indruments of deceiving, fo as to denominate the perfoa ufing them a
Southliar or deceiver,
It is to be admired how any deceiver can be fo
weak to foretel things near at hand, when a very
few months mud of neceflity difcover the im-

riches,
ful.

Dece'ivable. adj. [from decei"je.']
Man was not only deceivahle in his integrity,
but the angels of light in all their clarity.
Brvtvns Vulgar Errours.
How would thou ufe me now, blind, and thereby
And laft negledleJ.
2. Subjeft to produce errour ; deceitful.

Mi'lai.
_

good to confider of deformity, not as a
fign, which is mort dece'ivable, but as a caufe which
Bacon,
ieldom faileth of the eft'edl.
He received nothing but fair promifes, which
It is

llayivard.

O everfailing truft
In mortal drength and oh, what not in man
Miltcn,
Drceivable and vain ?
!

Dece'ivab t-ENESs. n. f. [from

decciv-

Liableneis to be deceived, or to

able.]

And all the kind deceivers of the foul.
laft

Pofe.

month of the year

;

ftead of confuls ; their authority fubfifted
Any body of ten men.

only two years.

DE'CENCE. ^ »./ [dscence, French
DE'CENCY. j cct, Latin.]

[decipio,

CKOur ;

;

to

cftate and power.

To dclu-le by ftratagem.
3. To cut off from cxpedlation, with of
before the thing.

The Turkilh general, deceived »/ his cxpefla-

Perform'd what friendHiip, juftice,

trulli

re-

quire ;

,

Wh.it could he more, but decently retire ?

Swifts

Without immndefty.

2,

at them.

to

Dry den.

Scvih.

The happy "fay approaeb'd, nor arc my hopes de-

Addij^r:.

open to impofture

I .

;

i.

fraud ; fallacy.
Being thus divided from truth in themfelves,
they are yet farther removed by advenient decepBronvn,.
tion.
All deception is a mlfapplying of thofe figns,
which, by compaO or inftitution, were made the

means of men's
thoughts.

Tl(? confidcration immediately fubfequent to
the being of a thing, is wh.it .sgrecs or dlfagrccs
with that thing ; what is fuitiblc or unfuitable to
it; and from this fprings the notion nf decency or
indecency, that which becomes or mifljecomcs.

poem.

be deceived ;

Dece'ption. n.f. [deceplia, 'Lzun.]
The aS or means of deceiving cheat

Pope.

Suitablenefs to charafter ; propriety.
And mud 1 own, (he laid, my fecret fmai-t.
What with more dccince were in filcncc kept ?

us,

fubjedt to fraud.
The firft and father caiife of common errour,
is the common inhrmity of human nature;
of
whofe d(>.eptiile condition, perhaps, there Ihould
not need any other evidlion, than the frequent
errours we (hall ourfelvcs commit.
Brnun,-

yltieriury.

Virtue Ihc finds too painful an endeavour,
Content to dwell in decencies for ever.

fo flcftied in

Dece'ptible. ajj, [hom deceit.] Liable

She fpeaks, behaves, and afls jud as (he ought;
But never, never rcach'd one gcn'rous thought

Sentiments which ralfc laughter, can very feldom be admitted with uny decency into an horoick

Drjdeii,

are

maintain their interett upon the cUcepiibiliiy of our
decayed natures.
Clanville,-

a due impreilion on the minds of thofe who adid

Knollts.

teni'it

Bronnem-

their relation.

de-

neral : but decence and graccfulnefs can be only in
Sprail.
the particulars in doing the good.
Were the offices of religion ftript of all the
external decencies of worlhip, they would not make

Ltcke.

2.

tioR, withdrew his rtcft twelve miles off.
I now bcliev'd

They could not decently refufe aflidance to awho had punidied thofe who had infulced

perfon,

:

.

primogeniture to both

;

ufed.
Thofe thoufand deeencifs, that daily flow
MHion.
From all her words and actions.
In good works there may be goodnefs in the ge-

Latin.]

Some liave been deceived into an opinion, that
there was

tion.

;

bring into

to impofe upon.
a divine right of

In a proper manner ; with fuitable behaviour ; without meannefs or oftenta'

1

proper formality ;
Propriety of form
becoming ceremony decence is feldom

I.

He th.it has a great patron, has the advantage

To caufe to miftake

MiIlori»

De'cently. ad-j. \_irom decent.]

but named de-

pointed to rule the commonwealth in

of his nfgligeiKe and dect'mahltmfs,
GoviritmtnteftheTmgue.

1.

O'er the decent flioulders drawn.

Not wanton ; not jmmodeft.

Pad hope of fafety, 'twas his lateft care,
Ten feet in length.
Di£l,
Like falling Caefar, decently to die,
Dryden,
Dece mvirate. n,f. [decemviratus , LaDeceptibi'lity.
n. f. [from deceit.]
tin.] The dignity and office of the ten
Liablenefs to be deceived.
governours of Rome, who were apSome errours
that they

deceive.

To DECE'lVE. V. a.

Come, penfive nun, devout and pure,
Sober, ftedfaft, and demure.
All hi a robe of dirked grain
Flowing with majeftick ti-ain.
And fable dole of Cyprus lawn

^

Dece'mber. n.f. [decemier, hzlin.] The

DeciivahUy in mod things as a child
Helplefs ? hence eafily contemn'd and fcorn'd.

ftofvi-dsce'pvahte.

Grave; not gaudy ; not oflentatious.

3-

Adieu the heart-expanding bowl.

Dryden^

moderately uled.
2.

tin.]

Subjeft to fraud ; expofed to impofture.

1.

lead bs decent; that is, in their due place, and but

Stcift.

podure.

^

Becoming; fit; fuitable.
Since there mud be ornaments both in painting
and poetry, if th«y are not necefl'ary, they mud at

1.

'

The rain and wind beat dark December. Sbakefp,
Dece'mpedal. adj. [ from decempeda, La-

^

De'cent. fl(^'. [(/fa-«/, Latin.J

interpreted it not as if he were detected for a
Bacon.
counterfeit deceiver.
Thofe voices, aClions, or geftures, which men
have not by any compad agreed to make the in-

choke the word, and he becometh unfruitMult. xiii. 2z.

The quality of being fraudulent ; ten-

•

ccnnovary progrefs of the epatls, to reduce the accounts of her motion and place to thofe of the fun»

:

dency to deceive.
The c re of this- world, and t}\e deee'ilfulnefs of

Dece'itfulness. ti,/. [ftom deceitful.

to the number nineteen.
Melon, of old, in the time of the Pcloponne.
Can war, condituted a deecnnitval circle, or ot
nineteen years ; the fame which we now call the
Holder,
golden number.
Seven months are retrenched in this whole dt-

One

[from deceive.]

cemher, or the tenth month, when the
year began in March.
Men are April when they woo^ and December
Shahefpeare^ i As you like it.
when they wed.
What (hould we fpeak of
yo\i
When we fliall hear
old
as
?
When we are

ffcticn.

courfe.

^

n. f.

Men were deceiverx ever

A fubtlle wily (hift or de-

[In law.]

ten years.

Decenno'val, \adj. \_decem and »«-•
Decenno'vary. J I'em, Lat.] Relating.

that leads another into errour ; a cheat.
Sigh no more, ladies, figh no more

Springs not from Edward's well-meant honed love,
Shaiijpiare.
But from Jcciil, bred by ncceflity.

3.

for

"
Bucon.
riihment.
Plant fruit-trees in large borders, and fet there- I
they
left
fparingly,
in fine flowers, but thin and
|
Bacon.
deceive the trees.

Fraud; a cheat ; a fallacy ; any practice by which falfehood is

Dece'nnial. adj. [from dccennium, La»
tin.] What continues for the fpace of

that the fpirits of the wine prey on the vifcid juice
of the body, intercommon with the fpirits of the
body, and fo deceive and rob them of their nou-

DECE'IT. ft./, [decepth, Latin.]
1.

To deprive by fraud or ftealth.
Wine is to be forborne in confumptions,

Till he, prelVd down by his own weighty name,
Did, like the vcftal, under fpoils </?««/;. Drydin,

.

Immodcrt words admit of no' defence 5
Rt^ctmrnon,
For want of decency is want of fenfe.

Drj/den.

CbafiMiin.

His lateft viAoiies Hill thickeft came,
As, near the centre, motion duth increafc ;

Modefty; not ribaldry ; not obfcenltjr,

3.

They rais'd a feeble cry with trembling notes,
But the weak voice rf«<TO'J their gafping throats.

z.

lignifyinj

or

conveying their
Stiulh.

.

The ftate of being deceived.
Roafon, not impoOibly, may meet
Some fpeclous objcdl by the foe fuborn'd.

And fall into deception unaware.
adj. [from

Dece'ptious.

Mitten^

deceit-]

De-

apt to deceive.

ceitful ;

Vet ihcic is a credence in my heart,
That doth invert th' attclt of eyes and cars ;
As if thofe organs had deceptious funiftions.
Created only to calamniale.

Dec e'p t v e
i

.

Shakcfpeeire^

adj. [from deceit-]

the power of deceiving.
•

Having
D/<«.

Dbce'ptory,

DEC
Dece'ptory. adj. [from dtetit.^ Containing means of deceit.

Affiarajiee

ped ; taken off.

which thrfpiric of Cud has vouchfafed to
'^T^
c
2.10
unfold

Diil.

Dece'rptible. adj. [aV^r/e, Latin. ]
That may be taken off.
Dia.
Dece'rption. »./. \i'romdecerpt.'\ The
aft of cropping or taking off.

Dici.

a Itriving j a difpute.

n. /.

[dicejjlo,

A

Latin.]

departure ; a going away.

Dia.

of j-hylick, he
fuildenly cured by dccbarming the witchcraft.

was

Harvty,

To DECI'DE. -u. a.
1.

[dicido, Latin.]

To fix the event of; to determine.

The day appioach'd whe.n fortune (hould drcide
The important cntcrpriie, and give the bride.

To ftamp

Sbakejpeare.

The a£l of falling away.

to a deeifum, ire fure arguments of the dignity

importance of it.

upon the conceit that it .innually rotteth away,
Brtmin's Vulgar Emuri.

_

2.

to take the tenth,

a feledion of er.ry tenth by
lot or otherwife.

A

feleftion

by

of every tenth foldier, in a general mutiny, for punilhmcnt.

Stvif't.

Dicis up all the virtues in the beauties of
oratory, and declaim xioiid on the praifa of
goodnefs.

him much in his
ATleriury.

fTalts.

1 his they arc ready to look upon as a deteimi-

Dect.a'imer. n.f. [from declaim.] One
who makes fpeeches with intent tp move

between vice and (irtue.

Sugen.

Having the power of fettling any event.

2.

_

For on th' event,
Denjiiie of tilis bloody day, depends
The fate of kingdoms.

A difcourfe addreffed to the paffions an
iarangue ; a fet fpeech ; a piece of rhe-

In

;

Deci'sivkness. n.f. [ ftom deci/ne.]
The power of argument or evidence to

torick.

fettle

Deci'sory. adj. [kom decide.]

an

Hooker.

Thou mayed forgive his anger, while thou
makcd ufe of the pUinncfs of his dcclamancn.

heart, could taCly dic'ifhtr it.

9

Taylcr.

To Deck. v. a. [di\Aen,'DMQh.]
I. To cover; to overl'prcad.

Declama'tor.»./ [Latin.} Adeclaimer ;

Ye mid,, and exhalations, that now rife
Frcm hill or Itc.miing lake, dulky or grey,

To dre.'s

her

Sidttij.

tin.]
I.

to array.

Sweet ornament

!

that d,\h a thing divine. SImk.

I.ong may'd thou live to wail tliy children's

And fee another, as 1 fee thee now,
in

Decl'amatory. adj. [dtclamatorius, La-

Mdun.

;

a rhetorician : feldom

Who could, I fay, hear this generous declameur,
without being fired at his noble zeal ?
Taller.

honour to the world's great Author, rife!

Or wet the thirdy eirth with falling diowcis,
Rifing or falling, ft,U advance his praile.
z.

an orator ;

ufcd.

Whether to dak with clouds th' uncolour'd Iky,

written in

this is the common ufe.
ha.l the fame chjraacr

Zrlmane, that

Able to

determine or decide.

forf^ke j

ia

caufe why dtLlamalions prevail fo greatly,
for that men lutter themfelves to be deluded.

'llie
is,

te/mlnate any difference, or
event.

Mdijot,.

Declama'tion. n.f. [dedamatio, Lat.'}

a conclufive manner.

And of each legion each centurion CuU die.

To explain that which

the paffions.
Your Salamander is a perpetual dcclaimcr againft

}<''i«"'y-

Phllhi.

Deci'sively. adv. [from decifive.]

111

To DECI'PHER. -v. a.' [dechijrer, F?f]"'

South.

It IS ufual for maders to make their boys
dc.
claim on both fides of an argument.

nothing permightv confidence

nation on their fide, and </.ij/i'i,r of the controverfy

Sieke/fiare.

A dtc'imaixn 1 will ftriftiy make

:

bread, and ftrengthens

"P'"'^-''-

lot

0( all who my Charinus did

ciphers

Ills

Benyotifon.

.

The fplendid declaimings of novices and men of
''"'•.

;

By dtc'matim and a tithed death,
Take tiou the dedin'd tenth.

I.

[irom decide.]

fetllv dtrijive in it, yet creates a

Decima'tion. n.f. [from decimate.']

A tithing

adj.

What are his milchicfs, conful ? You decUiv

Having the power of determining any

in

bered by ten ; multiplied by ten.
In the way we take now to name numbers bv

;

rheloricate ; to fpeak fet orations.
againd his manners, and corrupt your own.

difference ; conclafive.

Aptnefs to fail ; quality of fading once
a year.
J)ia.

To tithe

Drydtn.

as a table-decker.

uled in Scotland for a narrative,
or reports of the proceedings of the
court of feffion there.

1.

Deci'duousness. n.f. [from deciduom.]

To DE'CIMATE. -v. a. [decimus. Latin,]

and the fclenites, of pa^
of cards.
Greiu.

To DECLAIM, -v. n. [declamo, Lat.] To
harangue ; to fpeak to the paffions ; to

It is

Deci'sive.

In buuny, the perianthium, or ci\yx, is dctidutui, with the flower.
iiu'mcy.

millions of millions of millions, it is hard tu go
beyond eighteen, or, at mod, four and twintj decimal progreflions, without confufion.
Lo.ki.

the amianthus, of parallel threadf,

rallel plates, as in a deck

Sucli a rtfleilion, tliough it carries

De'cimal. adj. [decimus, Latin.] Num-

:

as in the pile of velvet ;

Atterbury.

_

Determination of an event.

And fortune labours with the vad event.
3.

tyultt.

Latin. ]
not Jailing

Befides gems, many other forts of ftones are regularly figured

and

Their arms arc to the lad drcifion bent.

[ deciduus,

other.

-IVoodioard.

,

termined.

2.

The man is no ill deader in common cafes of

Falling ; not perennial ;
through the year.

Dryden'i Jliad,

rack of cards piled regularly on each

2.

War IS a direft .-ppeal to God for the decifion of De'cker. n.f. [from ^fT^.]
A dreffer
fome difpute, which can by no other means
be deone that apparels or adorns ; a coverer,

and fucceflivcly reneweth again.

t.

Dryden.

At fun-fet to their Ihip they make return.

fome of them, and their zeal to bring the matter

DECI'DUOUS. adj.

danfilk.

On high-rals'd deck: the haughty Belgians ride.
Beneath whofc fliade our humble frigates go.
And fnore fecure on decks till rofy morn.

off.

One who determines quarrels.

nether ovcrloop.
Raleigh.
It any, born and bred under deck, had
no other
information but what fenfe afti.rds, he would be cf
opinion that the fliip was as dablc as a houfc.

]

Pleafure and revenge

Men obferving the der'uUncc of their horn, do

2.

decipher.

The time approaches.

.

property, where party is out of the qoelllon. Siuifi.

Ben

Wc have alf.i railed our fecond decks, andJtnfin.
given

Have ears more dc^" than adders to the voice
Ot any true dtcifan.
Sbaie/fejre.
The number of the undertakers, the wurth of

of controverfy.

Her krcl plows hell.

And deck knocks heaven.

Determination of a difference, or of a

Pope.

I cannot think that a jeftcr or a monkey, a
droll or a puppet, can be proper judges or dtcidtn

Deck, n.f [from the verb.]
1. The floor of a fhip.

That will with due deciji.n make us know
What we (hall fay wc have, and what we owe.

De'cidence. ti.f. [</?(/(/«,•//>, Latin.]
1
The quality of being ftied, or of falling

Deci'der. n.f. {(toia decide.']
1. One who determines caufes,

The god ftall to his vnt'rics tell

Each conlcious tear, each blufting grace.
That dtch'd dear Eloifu's face.
Prior,

doubt.

Who (hall dtcidr, when doflors difagree.

fall

Now the dew with fpangles deci'd the ground,

more vent thereby to our ordnance, trying on our

One who explains writings in cipher.
Deci'sion. n.f [from decide.]
1.

Spcfjtr.

..

A hveetcr fpot of earth was never found. Drjden.

Shahfpearc.

[from

n.f.

.

to embellifh.
;
But direful, deadly black, both leaf and bloom.

Fit to adorn the dead, and deck the dreary tomb.

to mark.

For villains mark'd with rape.

D E CI 'p M E R e R

In council oft, and oft in battJe tried.
Betwixt thy maftcr and the world dtcide. Gramiillt.

2.

to charaftcrife ;

;

Miltciu

To adorn

3.

fpeecb.

Yoa are both dccipbtr'd

To determine a queftion or difpute.

And founded cafuills doubt ?

to unravel ; to explain : as,

;

To

4.

Drydtn,

2.

filk.

To deck her fons.-

every particular fubjedl might find
his principal
pleafure dccifbired uuto him, in the tables
of his

Te Deck a'rm. i). a. [decharmer, French.]
To counteract a charm ; to difenchant.
Notrtitlirtan.'jng the lidp

That in their green fliops weave the fniooth-hair"!

tc

dfaf-hfr

write out; to mark down in charafters.
Could I give you a lively reprefentation of guil.
and horrour on this hand, and paint
out eternal
wrath and decipher eternal v.-ngeance on the other,
then might I (hew you the condition' of a finner
hearing himfclf denied by Chrift.
Hryatb.
Then wore laws of necclhty invented, that fo

3.

DuJ.

Dece'ssiom.

She fets to work millions of fpinning worms.

^'""'^•

lo decipher an ambiguous

Decerta'tiok. n.f. {dereitatie, Latin.]
;

U wiit in a f rivate charaacr, not to

be read, nor undcrllood, but by the confcienc-,

DiSi.

rECE'RPT, adj. {dccerftus, Lat.] Crop-

A contention

DEC

D E e^

lolb,

Deck'd \a thy rights, ai tiiou art dull'd in mine.
Sbgktjftare.

Relating to the praftice of declaiming
;
pertaining to declamation ; treated in
the manner of a rhetorician.
This a while ful'pendcd his interment, and be-

came a dcclametory cheme amongft the religious

men of that age.

/AV/cb.

2,

Appealing

DEC

DEC
Appealing to the paffions.
Hr has run himfclt 'into his own Jt,-!jmcry

s.

fli^r'.

\imTa. declare.'^

Brnar.

8.

Dryden.

9.

Declara'tion. n./. [horn tieclare.'\

A proclamation or affirmation; open Deci.a'rement.

1.

equator.
[In grammar.]

men, that will be fore to teltify
and dalnrefor him.
Soath'i Sermons,
Like fawning courtiers, for fuccefs they wait ;
And then come fmiling, and dularefor fate.
in the nature of

Ca-

pable of proof.
This is dtcUrahle from the bed writers.

The declhatliiH of n
7. [In tftronomy.]
ftar, we call its (hortefl dittance from the

decreeing and declaring again/I them.
Taylor.
God IS faid not to have left himfcif without
witnefs in the world ; there being fomething fixed

wayt and alninil torgotcen that he was Aow letting
up for a moral poet.
Dfytlen,

Decla'rable.

DEC

The Internal faculties of will and underftsnding

tt.

/.

flei5\ion

His promifes arc nothing 'die but d^chrtikns,
Unkcr,
Though wit and learning are cert nil and hahitujl pcrfedions of the mind, yet the </«ibiwr/M
of them, which alone brings Che repute, is fubje£l
to a thoaTand hazards.

made in the gofpel.
TWarfcr.,
2. An explanation of fomething doubtful.
Obfolete.
Declaration fjeclaratioj is
3. [In law.]
properly the fhewing forth, or laying

of tlie horizon, comprehended
and the prime
vertical circle, if accounted from the
call or well ; or eli'e between the meridian and the plane, if accounted from
either between the plane

is

and

a de~

Brov/n.

Decli'natory. j

known.

nation,

To DECLI'NE. -v. n. [decline, Latin.]
To lean downward.
1

vivacity of his you:h, and in the latter date and

And then with kind embraces, tempting kiflei«
And witli declining head into his bof>m.

icnow it to belong to the fame perfon.

clenjvjn

of the land trom that place to the lea, as

Stvift.

Btimet's Theory.

3. Inflexion J

tory.']

In the form of a declaration ;

not in a decretory form.
Andreas Alciatus the civilian, and Francifcus
de Cordua, have both diclarat'jrily confirmed the
Brnvrt^s Vulgar Etrouru
fame.

Decla'ratory.

adj.

\^

horn

declare.

;

1.

in ufe.

Z.

To make known

;

Boyle.

Chroit. avi. 14.

nion in plain terms.

He looks the prop of my declining years
I

4.

DryJen,

Dech'ns. v, a,
To bend downward; to bringdown.
And now fair Phwbus *gan decline in hafte

Ray.
This declinaiisn of atoms in their defcent, was
itfelf eitlier necellary or voluntary.

!

Autumnal warmth declines j
Ere heat is quite decay'd, or cold begun. Drydm,
Faith and morality are declined among us. Swiftt
God, in his wifdom, hath been plcaled to load
our declining years witli many fufferings, with difeafes, and decays of nature.
Sivifi

I.

Bcnticy.

Deviation from moral reftitude.
That a peccant creature Hiould difapprove and
repent of every declination and violation ot the rules
of jull and honcft, this right realon, difcourfing
upon the (lock tyf its own principles, could nut
but infer.
Seuib't SeriKons.

In Czfar's army fomcwhat the foldiers vrouldl
have had, yet they would not declare themlelves in
jt, but only demanded a difcharge.
Bacon.
point.
We are 3 confiderablc body, who, upon a proper 5. Variation from a fixed
There is no declinalinn of latitude, nor variation
occaGon, would not fail to declare ourfelves. jidjif.
of tlv^ elevation of the pole, notwith'.landing what
make a declaraVo Decla're. f. ».
JVoodwarJ,
fome have alTcrted.
tion ; to proclaim fome refolution or opi- 6. [In navigation.] The variation of the

To

nion, or favour or oppofuion ; with /or
or again^.

And nature, which all adls of life dcfigns,
Not like ill poets, in the laii declines.
Denham*
Thus then my lov'd Euryalus appears;

•To

Suppoftng there were a declination of atoms, yet
it not effect what they intend ; for then they
do all decline, and fo there will be no more concourfe than if they did perpendicularly defcend.

Declare liis glory among the heathen.
i

But j'jftice, and fome fatal curfe annex'd.
Deprives them of their outward liberty.
ifillm.
That empire mull decline,
Whofcchief fupport and fincwsareof coin, tfaller.

lyaller.

will

To publilh; to proclaim.

Sbaleffeart,

Sometimes nations will decline lb low

From virtue, which is reafon, that no wrong.

as, a decli-

tion ; obliquity.

me of you, that tlwre

To fliew in open view ; to fliew an opi-

Slakcjfeare,

nation of the head.

I Ctr, i. 11.
are contentions among you.
The fun by certain figns deehres
fouth
projefts
a
ftormy
day,
Both when the
And when the clearing north will pu^' the cloud^^
away.
Drydin's yirgil.

|..

:

3. Variation from reflitude; oblique mo-

It hath been declared unto

3.

The aft of bending down

dedimngf the

Who thriven, and who declines,

to a

Of declination or it<:iy.
2.

to tell evidently and

openly.

'

a

narchy, took it fo ill, as (he would never after hear
of his fuit.
Bacon,
Two general motions all animations have, that
is, their beginning and increafe ; and two more,
that is, their liate and declination.
Brown's Vulgar Errouri.
Hope waits upon the flow'ry prime ;
And fummer, though it be lets gay.
Yet is not look'd on as a time

[Jedaro., Latin,']

To declare this 1 little, we muft aflfume that the

;

fatliers

father ihould be as a ward to the fon.

They '11 be by th* fire, and prcfume to know
What 's done T th' Capitol ; who 's like to rife.

worfe Hate ; diminution of vigour ; decay.
The queen, hearing of the declination of a mo-

To clear; to free from obfcurity ; not
furfaccs of fuch bodies are exactly fmooth.

Sons at perfect age, and

ing variety of terminations : as, a declinable noun.

Thefe Ijjeffings are not only ieclaratary of the
{ood plcafure and Intention of Cod towards them,
(ut Ukewife of the natural tendency of the thing.
TJhthn.

To DECLA'RE. -v. a.

Oppofed to improvement or exaltation.

Decli'n ABLE. adj. [from decline.] Hav-

1

;

manner of changing nouns.

n.f, [^declinatio, Latin.]
Y Declina'tion.
Defcent
change from
better

Affirmative ; expreffive ; not decretory
not promifTory, but expreffing fomething
before promiied or decreed. Thus, a deflaratory law, is a new a£l confirming a
former law.

;

4.

Declenjiort is only the variation or change of the
termination of a noun, whilft it continues to fignify
the fame thing.
Clarke s Latin Grammar,

DECLA'aATORiLY. ad'v, [ffOm declara-

To fhun to avoid to do any thing.
To fink ; to be impaired to decay,

3.

for the immediate height of the mountain.

fame fide.

Shakefpt

2. T'o deviate ; to run into obliquities.
Neither Ihalt thou fpeak 'ui a caufe to declitte after many, to wreft judgment.
Exodus, xxiii. a,

Declination; defcent.
We may rcafonably allow as much for the de~

To this we may add the VKC fapuli, fa declarative on the

Bid him flicd tears, as being overjoy'd.

South' t Sermons

Making proclamation.

of planes are
Chambers,

inclination

but the rcadicft is by an inftrumcnt called a decPinaiory, fitted to the variation of your place. JHonon.

Take the pidiure of a man in the grcenncls and

2.

and

1 i;crc are fevcral ways to know the fevcral planes j

A beautj'-waining avki dilheflcd widow,
Ev'n in the afternoon of her bcft days,
Scduc'd the pitch and helglit of all his thoughts
To bafe declenfi'.n.
Hbah/peare'i Richard 111.

Crnv*

]

An inllrument in di-

determined.

gree of excellence.

declenjivn of his drooping years, and you will fcarcc

nature.

[ from decline.

alling, by which the declination, recli-

Declb'nsjon. h./. [declinatio, Latin.]
1
Tendency from a greater to a lefs de-

Decla'rative.«/^". \JroTadtclare.'\
1. Malsing declaration ; explanatory.
The names of things fhould be always t.i»ken from
fomething obfervably dulartHive of their form or

Hanis.

north or fouth.
A pro- D ethe
c LJ a'i or. \'t. /.
one that makes any thing

claimer ;

out, of an a\^ion perfonal in any fuic,
though it is iiled fometimes fur both
perlbnal and real afUons.
Ccnvell.

2.

DtCLtK AT lOK cfaPla/ie [in di.illing]

Decla'rek. w.y; [from declare.]

Soutb.

There are no where (o pljin and Aill decUratiira of mercy and love to ihe ions of men, as are

light bodies j

convert the needle freely placed, which
clarement of very different parts.

various

its

is an arch

[hom declare.]

Cryital will calefy into eledlricity ; that is, into

a power to attrad ftraws, or

what God will do f^r the good ot' men.

of a noun through

teroiinations.

Difcovery ; declaration ; tellimony.

exprelEon ; publication.

Brcivn^

The declenfion or in-

His weary waggon to the wcitern vale.

Spenfer,

And leaves the femblance of a lover, fixt
In melancholy deep, with head dccl'm'd.
And lovc-dejcfled eyes.
2.'

To fhun

;

to

Thotnfiti,

avoid ; to refufe ; to be

cautious of.

He had w'lfcW declined th^t argument, though in
their common fermons they gave

it.

Clamdcn,

Since the mufcs do invoke my pow*r,
I (hall no more decline that facred buw'r.
Where Gloriana, their great mirtrofs, lies.
Though I the bufinefs did decline.
Yet 1 contriv'd the whole defign.

And fcnt them their petition.

Jf'aller,

Denham.

If it (hould be faid that minute bodies are indiffoluble, becaufe it is their nature to be fo, that
would no: be to render a reafon of the thing propufed, hut, ill cft'eft, to decline Kt\ii:'m^ any. Boyle.
Could Caroline have been captivated with the
glories of this world, fhe had them alt laid before

needle from the dixecUon to north and

her; but Ihe gcneroufiy declined them, bccaule /he
faw the acceptance of them was incoulillcnt with

fouth.

religion.

^Jdifin,

WlMC

DEC

DEC
Atterh,

Decompo'site. tu(/. \decoi}:fofitu>, Lat.]
Compounded a fecond time; com-

Whtfever ibey judged to be moft «gr«eabte or
difagrteable, they would purfue or icclmc.

.?D E C

To modify a word by various termina-

pounded with things already compofite.

tions ; to infleft.
You dedmt mufa, and conftrue Latin, by the help
of a tutor, or with fomeEngliflitrandation. Watn.

Dcccmpojites of three metals, or more, .ije too
long to inquire of, except tliere be (bmc compoiiBacor.
tions of them already obferved.

Decli'ne. «. /. [from the verb. The
ftate of tendency to the lefs or the worfe ;
Contrary to indiminution ; decay.

Decomposi'tjon. n.J'. \_decompofitus Latin.] The afl of compounding things

\,

Nature herfeifd^ih

CuUnir'slraveh.

Decli'vOus. adj. [declivij, Lat.]

Gra-

dually defcending ; not precipitous ; not
perpendicularly finking; the contrary
to acclivous ;

moderately fteep.

in tlic bowels

Beyle.

When a word ftands for a very complex idea, that
is

compounded and dtcctrpounded, it is not ealy for

men to form and retain that idea eiaflly.

To refolve a compound

into

The Devil could never have had fuch numbers,
had he not ufcd fome as decoys to enfnare others.

Lccke,

fimple

a.

Deco'y. n.f. [from the verb.] Allurement to mifchiefs ; temptation.

If the violet, blue, and green be intercepted, the
remaining yellow, orange, and red will compound
upon the paper an orange ; and then, if the intercepted colours be let pafs, they will fall upon this
compounded orange, and, together with it, deccmfcund i while.
Ne^vlor:,
2.

'v.

to draw into a fnare.
A fowier had taken a partridge, who ofTered to
decoy her companions into the fnare.
L'EJlrange,
Decoy'd by the fantartic blaze.
Now loft, and now renew'd, he finks abforpt.
Rider and horfe.
Tbom/ca.

of the earth

cinnabar, and even in fulphur itfelf.

S-wi/^*

[from ioey Dutch, a
cage.] To lure into a cage ; to entrap j

make decomJxMirded bodies, as we fee in vitriol,

Rivers will not flow unlefs upon ded'm'ity, and
their fources be raifcd above the earth's ordinary

Wvidvjard.

To DECO'Y

To compofe of things already compounded to compound a fecond time ;
to form by a tecond compofition.

vity.

my

Boyle,

;

clination or obliquity reckoned downwards ; gradual defcent, not precipitous
or perpendicular ; the contrary to accli-

depth ; and the dicl'tI found myfelf within
-uity was fo fmall, that I walked near a mile before

He kept with princes due decorum.
Yet r.ever (l:ood in awe before 'em.

Lat.]

DECLI'VITY. n.f. {dtclMi, Latin.] In-

1 go: to the (bore.

Suljpl.

To DECOMPO'UND. v, a, {decompono,
1.

iitrface, fo that they rosy run upon a defcent.

A grace, a manner, a decirum.
Prior.
Gentlemen of the army (hould be, at lead,
obliged to external deioruK : a profligate life and
character (he uld not be a means of advancement.

We confider what happens in thft compolitiont

Thofd fathers lived in the </«//« of literature.

[j

ffolton.

The better fort (hall fet before 'em

already compounded.
and decowpofirhrs of ("aline particles.

Prisr.

am far froqj fufpeiling firopllcity, which

Of vice and virtue in the fchools.

,

creafe, improvement, or elevation.

Thy rife of fortune did I only wed,
prom its dcclwt determin'd to recede.

I

bold to trefpafs in points of decorum.
Beyond the (ix'd and fettled rules

Co'Vcrnmenr of the Tsn^ue.

Thefe exuberant produSions of the earth became
a continual decoy and fnare they only excited and
:

fomenttd lulls.
H^oodward.
.^n old dramdrinkeris the Devil's </«sy. Berkley.

A

Deco'y'juc K.

n. /.
duck that lures
others.
There is a fort of ducks, called deeojdiicks, that
will bring whole (lights of fowl to their retirements
where are conveniencies made for catching thein.

This is a fenfe that has of late
crept irregularly into chymical books.
parts.

To DECO'CT. -v. a. ytcojuo, decoBum, Decompo'und. adj, [from the verb.]
Compofed of things or words already
Latin.]
Mortimer^
compounded ; compounded a fecond To DECRE'ASE. v. n. [decre/co. Latin.]
To prepare by boiling for any ufe ; to
I
time.
digell in hot water.
To grow lefs ; to be dimintlhcd.
,

Sena lefeth its windinefc by dicoBing ; and fubtile
or windy fpirits are taken otf by incenfion or evaBac,

porati<

To digeft by the heat of the (lomach.

2.

There Ihe decoBi, and doth the food prepare ;
There (he diftributes it toev'ry vein ;
There (he exp«l« what (he may fitly (pare. Daviit.
3. To boil in water, fo as to draw the
ilrength or virtue of any thing.

The pretended falls and fulphur are (o far from
being elementary parts extrafled out of the body of

De'corament.

Bacon,

To boil up to a confidence ; toftrengthen or invigorate by boiling this is no
proper ufe.

4.

:

Can (bddcn water, their barley broth,
Deccd their cold blood to fuch valiant heat ? Sbjk.

Deco'ctibi.b. adj. \_(rom decoft.'\ That
which may be boiled, or prepared by
Dici.

boiling.

71.

/.

from

\_

To

DE'CORATE. 'u, a.
To adorn

;

Di^.

[decorc,

to embellifh ;

in the fame proportion, it decncj^rb.

Brown s Vulgar Errours,

When the 'fun comjs to his tropicks, days increafe and decreafe but a very
while together.

7fl Decre'ase,

Lat.]

to beautify.

in infuiion the longer it is, the greater is the
part of the grofs bndy that gocth inf. the liquor;
b'lt in dtailion, tho jgh more goeth forth, yet it cither purgeth at the top, or frttleth at the bottom.
Bafon.
.MM>v

The lineamenta of a white lily will remain aftei
ArhuibnA.
the flrongcft deadkn.
_
2.

A preparation made by boiling in water.
They dittil theii hulbands lajid
In decoflioTis ; and arc mannd

Deco'cture. a./ [from fl'fcoc?.] A fubdrawn by decoAion.
». /.

[decollatio,

becoming

charai^er ;

It is not fo decer-;us, in rel'pe^ of God, that
he (hoold immediately dn ail the meaneit and
tnflingeft things himfelt, without any inferiuur or
fuboruinatc minider.
Ray,

To DECO'RTICATE.
Lat.]

-v.

a.

[decortico.

To dived of the bark or huflc

itiswcU wa(lied,and boil it in water.

De CORT

I

He, by a detdlatkn of all hope, annihilated his
this, by ao iumwdaraocy thctcof, defiroyDtercy
Mtown.
cd bit juftice,

Arbuibnot,

a't ion. ti.f. [from decorticate. ]

The art oi llripping the b.-irk or hulk.
D ECO' RUM. n.f. [Latin.] Decency; betrary to levity ; feemlinefs.
If yourmafter

Dan,

Nor cherilh'd they relations poor.
That might decreafe their prefent (lore.

Prior.

Decre'ase. n.f. [from the verb.]
1

The ilate of growing lefs

decay.
;
By weak'ning toil and hcjary age o'ercome,

See thy dccrcajcy and haften to thy tomb.

2.

The wain

;

Prior.

the time when the vifible

face of the moon grows lefs.
See in what time the feeds, fee in the increa(e of
the moon, come to a certain height, and how they
differ from thofe that are fet in the decreafe of die
Bacon.
moon.

To DECRE'E. 'V. n. [decretum, Latin.]
To make an edift ; to appoint by edirt
to ellablilh by law ; to determine ; to
They (hall fee the end of the wife, and (hall not
underftand what God in \\\& counfel hath decreed of
him.

ff^fd. iv.

Father eternal thine it to decree ;
Mine, both in heav'n and earth, to do thy will.
Milton.
Had heav'n decreed that I (hould life enjoy,
Heav'n had decreed to fave unhappy Troy. Dryd,
!

To Decre'e. "v. a. To doom or aflign by

Would have a queen his beggar, you muft tell him
Th.-iC majefty, to keep decorum^ niuil

Ma Icf] beg than a kingdom,

Thofe articles, which did our ftate decreafe.

refolve.

to peel ; to llrip.

haviour contrary to licentioufnefs, conLat.]

The aft of beheading.
:

a

Take great barley, .l.icd and deorticalcd, after

Ben ycnfer.
J.ying for the fp'rh of amber.
If the plant ;.e b iied in water, the ftrained lieuor It called the decMitn of the plant, y^rlnrlinoi,
llance

to

proper; befitting; leemly.

to huflc ;

With ten emp'rics, in their chamber

Decoll a'tion.

fuitable

To make iefs; to

Heat incrcafcs the fluidity of tenacious liquids,
as of oil, balfam, and honey ; and thereby dccreafes
their refiftance.
Kpwton.

;

.

great

a

Newton.

He did di(honourable (ind

;

Decora'tor. »._/'. [from decorate,] An
Deco'ction. n.f. [dtcoHum, Lat.]
adorner
an embcllifher.
Dii!i.
The aft of boiling any thing, to extraft
1
Deco'rous. eidj, [decoruj, Lat.] Decent;
its virtues.

-v. a.

little for

diminifh.

Decora'tio.v. n. /, [^(vora decorate.'] Ornament ; embellilhment added beauty.
The en (Igns of virtues contribute tn the ornament
of (igures j I'uch as tlic decorations belonging to the
liberal art^, and to war.
Dryden.
7'hij hel-n and heavy buckler I can fpare.
As only decorationi of the war :
So Mars is arm'd for glory, not for need. Dryden,

Ecchi. xiiii. 7.

Unto fifty years, as they faid, the heart annually
increafeth the weight of one drachm ; after which,

decorate. ]

Ornament ; embellilhment.

The longer malt or hcrbf are dticBed in liquor,
the clearer it is.

From the moon is the fign of fcafls, a light that
decreafetb in her perfeftion.

mercury, that they arc ratber, to borrow a term of
the grammarians, decompturtd bodies, made up of
the whole metal and the mcnUruuni, or other additame^ls employed to difguife it.
Byle,
No body Ihould ufe any compound or decompound
of the fubllantial verbs.
Artiiihnol and Pope,

a decree.

Thou (halt alfo decree a tfajog, and ic (hall be
Sta^effeare.

eftablilbed.

J'l>.

The

DEC

DEC

De'cretm. ttdj. [(/(ffrrtaw, Latin.] Ap-

The king their fathwi

On juft ind weighty rcjfons, hai itctttd

/

Anedift; a law.
It you deny me, fie upon your law!
There is no force in the <if.vr«i of Venice. Shal.
Tlierc went a decree from Caefar Augulhis, tliat
all

Luke,

the world Ihould be laird,

ii.

i.

2.

A decretal epiftle is that which the pope decrees

Suppofmg there bs a thoufand forts of infeits
in this illand, if the fame proportion holds between
the infefls of England and of the world, as between

by fome particular petfon or p«fons thereon.
Ayliffi' I F trtrgm.

pie, the fpecies of infefii will amount to ten thou-

A book of decrees or edifts

1.

a body of

Of lawj, of judgments, and u( decretals.

An eftablilhed rule.

A determination of a

Decu'rsion. »./. [decur/us, Latin.] The

and as authentical as the facred charter itfelf.

ftudies or profeffes the knowledge of the

decretal.

The decretijis had their rife and begiiming under
the reign of the emperor Frcdei ick Barbaroffa.
Aylifft'i farergen.

De'cr ETOR Y. adj. [from decree.]

:

Judicial; definitive.
There aie lenitives that

1.

the earth, fuflcr a continual decrement, and grow
WoQdwarJ.
lower and lower.

friend/hip will apply,

Critic.il; in which there is

2.

fome defi-

nitive event.

The motions of the moon, fuppofed to be meafured by fevens, and the critical or decretory days,
depend on that number. Bmvn't Vulgar Eirours.

Clamo[from
Decri'al. n,
rous cenfure ; hafty or noify condemnaDECRE'PIT. adj. [ decrepitus, Latin. ]
tion; concurrence in cenfuring any
Wafted and worn out with age ; in the
laft ttage of decay.
Shairfp.
bafe, ignoble WTetch
Decrepit mifer
Of men's liv«5, in this decrepit age of the world,
!

manv exceed fourfcore, and fonie an hundred years.

mour againft.

of the kingdom, are naturally decried by the other.

Mdijcn.
rity, decried them as hard and urmcceirary reftraints.

Rogers.

Quacks and impoftors are ftil! cautioning us to
beware of counterfeits, and decry others cheats only
to make more way for their own.

To calcine fait till it has tcafed

cible

&.iitncf
[from (/f.•«/>//.]
The laft ftage of dethe laft efFofts of old age.

DkCKs'piTNESS. 7
DacRE'riTutJE. J
cay ;

»./.

Motlu r earth, in this her barrcniiei's and decrepamft of age, can procreate fudi fwarms of curious cnjrines.

ficntLy,

from decujfate. ]

[

ftate of being croft-

ed at unequal angles.
Though there bi dccujlfaticn of the rays in the
pupil of the eye, and fo the image of the objcfl in
the retina, or bottom of the eye, be inverted; yet

doth not the objeil appear inverted, but in its right

Ray,

or natural pollure.

DEDE'COKATE.

To

Latin.]

a.

nj.

To difgrace

;

[dedecoro.

to bring a re-

DiS.

proach upon.

Dedenti'tion. n.f.
Latin,]

DiB.

and denlitio,
Lofs or fliedding of the teeth,
[de

Solon divided life into ten fcptenaries, becaufe in
every one thereof a man received fome fenfibic mutation : inthclirft is </fi/fTifif/9ff, or falling of teeth.
Bi'.vJtss Vulgar Errours.

Te DE'DICATE. -v. a. [eledico, L-itin.]
1. To devote to fome divine power; to
confecrate and fet apart to facred ufes.

A pleafant grove
Was (hot up high, full of the (lately tree
That dedicated is to Olympick Jove,
And to his fon Alcides.

Sfetieer,

The princes offered for dedicating the altar, in
Num. vii. ic.
the day that it was anointed.

but one kind of
Brrwn^s yulgar Errours.
motion.
Not confidering the ancient manner of dccumbaicy, he imputed this gelVure of the beloved dikiple unto rufticity, or an aft of incivility.
Bmm's Vulgar Ernun.

frame.
Dryden,

ftation

is

properly no

Decu'mbiture.

».

reft,

/

Warn'd by the feer, to her rJfendcd name

We rais'd, and deJicate,
or purpofe,

There cannot be

As will to greatncfs dedicate thenifelves.

Stahfp,

Ladles, a gcn'ral welcome from his grace
Salutes you all : this night hcjcdicata
SbaHefpeart,
To fair content and you,
He went to learn the profe(lion of a foliiier, te
Cljrtnden,
which he had dedicated hinilell,
Bid her inftant wed.
And quiet dedicate her remnant life

The time at which a man takes to his
bed in a difeafe.
[In aftriilogy.] A fcheme of the heavens
2. ^
crefted for that time, by which the pro
.

gnofticks of recovery or death are difcovered.

D ryder..
DitcSE'tcexT. etdj. [from decrtfcens, LaOr itches, its dccumhiture Ihc takes.
tin.] Growing lets ; being in a ftate of Dp-'cvple. adj. [dtci/plus, L^lin.] TenRecreate.
fold ; tlic fame number ten times repeated.

^

That vulturn in you, to devour fo many

[from decumbo,

Jf but a mile flic travel out of town,
The planetary hour muft firll bi- known.
And lucky moment; if her eye but akcs.

tliis wond'rous

To appropriate folemnly to any perfon

2.

Latin.]
I

makes, when put over the lire in a cru-

;

the pofture of lying down.
Tills muft come to pals, if we hold opinion
they lie not down, and enjoy no decumbence at all
for

To DECRE'PIT ATE. -v. a. [decrepo, La-

Decrepita'tion. It./, [from decrepiThe crackling noife which fait
tate.']

Stvift.

Decu'mbencf. \ n.f. [decumitr, 'Lat.]
Decu'mbency. J The aft of lying down;

malevolence towards thofc poor decrepit parts of our
fpecies, in whom human nature is defaced by infirMAiJon,
mity and dot*gc.

to crackle in the fire.
So will it come topafs in a pot of fait, although
Bniun'% I'ulgar Ermurs.
decrepitated.

The adl of crofting

to IcITen their autho-

They applied thcmfclves

The cliarge of witchcraft infpires people with a

tin.]

Decussa'tion, h. f.

graceful ; reproachful ; fliameful.

Malice in criticks rcigni fa high.
That for fmall errours they whole plays decry,
Dryden.
Thofe mcafures, which are extolled by one half

Who

A

X,

;

cbfcrvation of many heads. Brimn's Vulgar Err.
And from the north to call
Mi/ton.
Decrtpii Winter.
this obfenes, may In his body find

'

This it performs by the aftion of a notable muf.
cle on each fide, having the form of the letter

;

hiftory, are frcfli in the

Dinbam.
Decrepit age, but never in his mind.
Propp'd on his ftaff, and ftooping as he goes,
furrow'd
brows;
(hades
his
painted mitte
The god, in tHis decrepit form array'd.
The gardens ertcr'd, and the fruits furvcy'd. Pope.

To interfefl at acute angles.

DedECORa'tiON. n.f. [from dedecoraie."]
To Dh.CRV'v.a. [decrier, French.] To
The aft of difgracing difgrace. Dia.
to blame clamoroufly ; to cla- Dede'corous. adj. [dedecus, Lat.] Difcenfure

take order thatthcrebechol'cnapopeof frelh years.
Sacont
Decrepit fuperftitions, and fuch as had their naall

T

thing.

This pope ts decrepit, and the bell goeth for him

tivity in times beyond

decry.]

j'.

llale.

Decurta'tion.»./. [decurtafio, Latin,]
The acl of cutting ftiort, or (hortening.
DECU'SSA'lE. v. a. [dectefo, Latin,]

made up of many fibres, dect/Jfatitig one another
Ray»
longways,

before it will be brought to the decretory rigours of
South^s Sermons.
a condemning fcntejicc.

our

apace, and in our lad days
Brrwn's f^ulgar Ermun.
graves.
Rocks, mountains, and tlic other elevations of

!

a6t of running down.
What is decayed by that decurjlon of waten, it
fupplled by the terrene faeces which water brings.

Hmiel's Vdca! Firtji.

De'cretist. n.f. [irom decree,'] One that

quantity loft by decreafing.
Upon the tropick, and flrft dcfcenfion from our
but
folftice, we are fcarcc fenfib'c of declination ;
declining farther, our decrevteM accelerates we fet
precipitate into

He inftituted decuriom through both thefe colonies, that is, one over every ten families. Temple,
Spcrij'r.

Ti aditions and decretals were made Jf equ jl fuVce,

Joh, ixviii. i5.
fuit, or litigated

which
4. [In canon law.] An ordinance,
is enabled by the pope himfelf, by and
with the advice of hii cardinals in council affembled, without being confulted
by any one thereon. Ajliffe's Farrrgon.
De'crement. n.J. [/decrement um, Latin.]
Decreafe ; the Hate of growing lefs ; the

to the centurion.

The coUeftion of the pope's decrees.

2.

Ray,

fund.

Decij'rion. »./ [decuria, Lat.] A commander over ten ; an oflicer fubordinate

Of magiftrates, of courts, of tribunals.

Brtane.

caufe.

plants domellick and eiotick, that is, near a t/rrv-

The fecond room, wliofe walls
Were painted fair with memorable gefts

for the lightning of the thunder.
.

;

laws.

When he made a duree for the rain, ind a way
3

his profundity ; that is, a direft line between the
Brtnon's Vulgar Errturs,
brr-aft and the (pine.

either by bimfelf, or elfe by the advice of his cardinals; and this muft be on his being confulted

De'cretal, n.f. [from the adjeflive.j

Are wecondemn'd by fate's yir\yi& decree
No more our houl'es and our homes to fee ? Dryd.
The Supreme Being is fovereignly good; he
rewards thcjult, and puniftiesthe unjuft: and the
folly of man, and not the decree of heaven, is the
caufe of human calamity.

a decree ; containing a

pertaining to
decree.

Ri/Vlt.

His fccDtre to the younger.
^
[decrctum, Latin.]
Decre E. ».
1.

D E D
Man's length, that is, a perpendicular from the
vertex unto the fole of the foot, is deevple unto

To the juft d ities cf an humble wife.
3.

Frier,

Toinfcribe to a patron.
He compiled, ten elegant books, and dedicated
tlicm to the lord Burghley.

Feacbam,

De'dicate. adj. [from the verb.] Confecrate ;

devote ;

dedicated ;

.appro-

priate,
Pray'»»

BED

DEE

Pray'ra from preferred foulsj
From faftmg maids, whofe names are dedicate
To nothing temporal.
Sbakefpeare.
Tliis tentli part, or tithe, being thus affigncd
»nto him, leaveth now to be of the nature of the
other nine parts, whic are given us for our worldly
neceilities, and becometh as a thing liedkare and
appropriate unto God.
Spelmatt.

All properties of a triangle depend on, and are
dcducible from, the complex idea of three lines, including a fpace.
Lecke.

fame fcnatc it (hould belong to give full judgment

Dedu'cive. «</i/. [(rom deduce.] Perform-

whom it pleafed them, clean contrary to their own

ing the adl of dedudlion.
;

have been

2.

curious as to trouble bifliops
w'ii piacmg the firl4 tone in the churches; or fo
fcrcpulous as, after the ercclion of them, to make
any great ado for their deJicatiiit.
Hoehtr.
fo

I.

Hotace and he went hand in hand in fong.

P'fc,

CO.Tipliment and fcrvility.
Leuve dangerous truths to unfuccefsful fatires.

And flattery to fulfome d;dicatori,
Ptipe,
De'dicatory./j/t)'. [from dedicate.'\ Compofing a dedication ; complimental ;
adulatory.

Thus I ihould begin my epiftle, if it were a dtdicatcry one; but it is a friendly letter.

Psftf.

Dedi'tion. n.f. [liiditio, Latin.] The aft
of yielding up a;r; thing; furrendry.
was not a complete conqueft, but rather a
upon terms and capitulations agreed between the conqueror and the conquered.
Hale.
It

dtdition

To DEDU'CE. 'V. a. [Jeciuco, Latin.]
1
To draw in a regular connefted feries,
I will deduce him from his cradle, through the
deep and lubric waves of ftate and court, till he
waj fwallawed in the gulph of fatality.

H^otten Buck.

nothing bat the faculty of deducing

3.

that

Dryden.

DeDu'ciBLE. adj. [from deduce.]

2. Exploit;

The condition, although dcduable from many

performance.

Brcrwn'l ^ulfar Errcun.

io fir, therefore, as confcience reports any thing

Whofe deeds fome nobler poem (hall adorn. Dryd.
Power of aflion ; agency.
3
Nor knew I not

The general charafter of the new earth is paraifaicali and the particular charafler, that it
haft no fca
and both arc apparently deduciiU
tram its formation.
Burnet.
:

Vol. I.

thefe, it

furmife ; opinion.
Not now in ufe.
Hear me, my love, be thou but true of heart, .
—1 true how now? what wicked deem is this ?
!

Sbakefpeare.

Dee'mster. »./ [from deem.]

is

doer.

To be with will and deed created free.

to be

South.

Milton.

Thoufandj were there, in darker faise that dwell,

4.

A£l declaratory of an opinion.

Milttn.

A judge:

a word yet in ufe in Jerfey and the Ifle

of Man.

DEEP. /tdj. [beep, Saxon.]
Having length downwards ; defcending

1

profound : oppofed te Jhallotjo.
All trees in high and fandy grounds are to be

far ;

fet deep,

I, on the other fide,
Us'd no ambition to commend my deeds
;
The deedi themfclves, tho' mute, fpoke loud the

grounds, yet (hall we evidence it but from few,

from

Deem. »./. [from the verb.] Judgment;

and in watry grounds more (hallow.
Bacon.

The gaping gulph low to the centre lies.
And twice as deep as earth is diftant from the (fcies.

We

Col-

by reafon ; confequential ; difcoverable from principles laid down.

apreeable to or deduciile

All that they know not, envy, or admire.
Rather than envy, let them wonder at her.
But not to deem of her defert afpire.
Spenfir.

daed, Dutch.]

Luke.
are notfecluded from the expeOation of reward for our chatitiible deeds. Smalridge's Sermons.

Spenfer.

But they that (kill not of fo heavenly mat(er>

deed.

ledljble

7homfin.

to make eftimate of: thi»
fenfe is now difufed.
;

That hath, maugre her fpite, thus low roe laid Iti

And deedi could only deeds unjuft maintain. Dryd.
The fame had not confented to the council .md

which I am con/ident arc

To eftimate

Do me not to dy,
Ne deem thy force by fortune's doom unjuft,

vain,

Praife and prayer are his due worfliip, and the

i^irkened to.

Nature, dilhirb'd.
Is deem'd vindiflive to have chang'd her courfe.

The place is dignified by tli' doer's deed.
Shak.
The monfter nought replied ; for words were

thing deduced ; the colleftion of reafon
confequential propofition.

Milton.

Thefe blelTings, friend, a deity bcftow'd ;
For never can I deeitt him lefs than god.
Dryden.

;

Adion, whether good or bad; thing
done.
From loweft place when virtuous things prncp-d.

I.

Tbomfan.

;

Hooker.

He who, to be deem'd

A god, leap'd fondly into ^tna flames.

_

Dedu'cement. »./ [from deduce.] The

the remote effefls of revelation.

both are not.

i-

There is fcarce a popular errour paflant in our
days, which is not either direflly exprelTed, or dedu9i-vely contained, in this work.
Brovjn's Vulgar Erroun.

DEED. n.f. [bacb, Saxon

To judge; to conclude upon confidera-

tion ; to tliink ; to opine ; to determine.
Here eke cliaL famous golden apple grew,
For which th' Idean ladies difagieed.
Till partial Paris dempt it Venus' due.
Spenler.
So natural is the union of religion with juilice,
that we may boldly deem tlierc is neither, where

dull.

Confequentially ; by regular deduflion
by a regular train of ratiocination.

!

reft of thofc dtducementi

man, Saxon.]
I.

defalcation.

Dedu'ctively. tidv. [from dedudi-ve.]

oh pour

From the firft note the hollow cuckoo Zing?,

The fymphony of fpring.

!

All knowledge of caufes is deduflive; for we
know noije by timple intuition, but through the
mediation of their effedls.
Clan-uille.

the following ihall naturally rife
I

Ye dcedlrfs boaftcrs and the fong attend. P:pe.
To DEEM. If. n. part, dem/n, or deemed,
[domgan, Gothick ; doemen, Dutch ; bet-

from a pofition premifed.

To lay down in regular order, (o as
from the foregoing.
Lend me your fong, ye nightingales
The mazy-runriing foul of melody
Into my varied vcrl'c
while 1 deduce^

Sbakejpeare.
Inftant, he cried, your female difcord end,

Pope.

hocke,

without aftion ; without exploits.
Speaking in deeds, and deedij's in his tongue.

Dedu'ctive. adj. [from dedua.] Deducible ; that which is or may be deduced

tial propofitions.
is

'

Make fair dcdudimti fee to what they mount.

deduce my rhimes

unknown truth* from principles already known.

;

Lee's Oedipus.

Deh'dless. adj. [from deed.] Unaftive;

;

Bring then thefe blefiings to a ftrifl account

From tlie dire nation in its early times ?
Pope.
2. To form a regular chain of confequenReafon

Meet like the hands of Jove.

Confequential colleftion ; coufequence

That which is dedufted

2.

from one time or one event to another.

;

So now in very deed I might behold

The pond'rous earth, and all yon marble roof.

by fome kind of 'confcquence ; as by long circuit
oi deducikn it may be that even all truth, out of
any truth, may be concluded.
Hooker.
Set before you the moral law of God, with fuch
deJu^iom from it as our Saviour hath drawn, or
our own reafon, well informed, can make. Duppa.
That by diverfity of motions we Ihould fpell out
things not refembled by them, we inuft attribute
to fome fccret deduFlion j but what this JeJulii'.n
Ihould be, or by what mediums this knowledge is
advanced, is as dark as ignorance.
GlanvilU.
You have laid the experiments together in fuch
a way, and made fuch dedui>ii,ni from them, as 1
have not hitherto met with.
Boyle.
All crofs and diftafteful humours are either exprefsly, or by clear confrquence and deduijion, forbidden in the New Teftament.
Ti/hi/on.
A refleftlon fo obvious, that natural inllindl
feems to have fuggefted it even to thofe who never
much attended to dedu^ions of reafon.
Rogers.

Dedica'tor. k./. [from cfeciicaU.'] One
who infcribes his work to a patron with

fliall I

O that, as oft I have at Athens fcen

Out of fcripture fuch duties may be deduced,

Sat full-bl -wn Bufo, pnff'd by ev'ry quill
Fed by foft dedication all day long,

South.

Faft ; reality ; the contrary to fiftion :

The ftage arife, and the big clouds defcend

propofition drawn from principles premifed.

Proud as Apollo on his forked hill,

Hooker,

Written evidence of any legal aft.
The folicitor gave an evidence for a deed, which

whence the word indeed.

Dedu'ction. n.f. [dedttaio, Latin.]

An addrefs to a patron.

O goddefs, fay,

to divide.

Spenjer.

Addijjn.

.

;

6.

Some fparks remaining of that heavenly fire.

Among publick folemniries there is none foglo"tHc <i-vy/fjri'« of the temple.

;

abfolve

face of a river.

Nor r is.

To feparate to difpart
Now not in ufe.

and to

was impeached to be fraudulent.
Bacon.
He builds his houfe upon the fand, and writes
the deeds by which he holds his eftate upon the

Having yet, in his deduSed fpright.

rous as that under the rci^n of king Solomon, at
2.

5.

;

of infjiicy.

priation.
It cannot be laid to many men's charge, that

excommunication,

former dcds and oaths.

Di£l.

off; to defalcate.
We deduB from the computation of our years
that part of our time which is fpent in incogitancy

The a6l of dedicating to any being or
parpofe ; coniecration ; folemn approtliey

in matter of

roDEDU'CT. "j./t. [deduco.h^tm.]
1. To fubftraft
to take away
to cut

Dedica'tion. n. /. [at/Z/Va/Zo, Latin.]
1.

DEE
They defire, with (Irange abfurdity, tfiat to the

Dryden.
2.

Low in fituation

3.

Meafured from the furface downward.

;

not high.

Mr. Hallcy, in diving deep into the fea in a div.
ing veliel, found, in a clear fun-(hine day, that
when he was funk many fathoms deep into the
water, the upper part of his hand, on which the
fun (hone directly, appeared of a red colour.
Newtsn,
\.

Entering far ; piercing a great way.
This avarice
Strikes deeper, grows with more pernicious root.
Sbakefpeare,

3

Q-

F»r,

^

©EF
For) ercn in that feafm of the jetr, the «.iys
Clami'm.
in th»t vale were very tltef.
Titou baft not ftrengch fuch labours to I'uflain
»url
Drink belicburc, my boy! drink diif, and
~ fcour

thy bran.

F.-ir

5.

Dryd:

p E F

Dtipeu the mumiura of the failing floods,

the laire I'liiJer, when her nets ar« (presd,
titip i nbufli'd in h.r fiicnc den doet lie. brydey>.
5>o

Shakejpenrt.

If the matter b-j knotty, wd tiic Ifnfc liej *(y,
the mind mull (lop and buckle to ir, and ftick
upon it with labour and chougSic, ani clofe con-

Lvcke*

Wha h-itli not heard

i*.

the

Ipokrn,

lijwr itc^ yon were widiin the booiu of bcav'n ?

fli.'

hath.

Sbaitj'f.

Ke's meiiuting with two </ir/> divines,

Deep-muSino.

of dap thought mentions.

To a great depth

1

Lucki,

far

my dtep pray'rs cannot appcafe thee,

Yet execute thy wrath on mc alone. Sbak. R. III.
Not awful Photbtis was on Pindus heard

2.

JO. Darlc-coloured.

3.

With deefir brown the grove was overfpread.
Dryden.

U. ITaviag a grekt degree of ililnefs, or

(is,

Gircjii, ii. 21.

of money.

Dmiinution ; abatement
excifion of
any part ot a cuilomary allowance.
The lea-table is let forth wi'h its cuilomary
;

b'll

of fare, and without any defilcation.

'To Defa'lk.

Addijtru

With great ftudy or fagacity ; not fuper-

[See Defalcate.]
To cut off; to lop away.

not carelefaly ; profoundly.
Sorrowfully ; folemnly ; with a great
degree of lerioulr.efs or fadnefs.
Mark, tiii. 12.
He figheJ deeply in his fpirit.
Klockin> fo deeply hath fworn ne'er more to come

make fome other mote gufl ftil.
Bccay of Piety*
Defama'tion. n.f. [from defame.] The
aft of defaming or bringing infamy upon
another ; calumny ; reproach j cenfure ;

a.

'u

What he defalks fiom fonie infipid fin, is but to

detr.iftion.
Defamation is the uttering of contumelious language of any one, with en intent of raifing an ill
fame of the party ; ami thij extends to writi.ig, as
by defamatory libels ; ani to deeds, as reproachful poftures, figns, and ge.lures.
.Aylife,
Be filent, and beware, if fucb you fee j
'Tis defamatitn but to fay, that 's he.
Dryden.
Many d.irk and intricate motives there are to
detraction and defamation ; and many malicious
fpies are fearching into the aftiuns of a great

Having taken of tiie deeply red juice 01 bocktburn berries, I let it drop upon white paper.
Boyle.

5.

To

Defalca'tion. n. f. [from defalcate.]

4. With a tendency to darknefs of colour.

12. Dcprefiedjifunk; metaphorically, low.
Their deep poverty, abounde^i into the riches of
their liborality.
a Cwinriid^Ti, viii. 2.
Bafs ; grave in found.
J 3.
Thefounds made by buckets in a well, are dtepei
and fuller than if the like percuflion were made in
the open air.
Bacon,

a fickle ; defutquer, French.]

cut off; to lop ; to take away part of a
penfion or falary. Jt is generally ufed

In bawdy-houfe, that he dares not go home. Donne.
Upon the deck our careful general ilood.
And deeply mus'd on the fuccceding day. Dryden.

gloom, or faduefs.
And the Lord God caufed a deep lleep to f,ill

Clanvilk*

ro DEFA'LCATE. -v. a. [from fair, faL

ficially ;

"With deeper filence, or with more regard. Drjdeu.

a word not in

The affeftions were the authors of that unhap-

below the fur-

Fear is a palfion thit is moft deep/y rooted in
our natures, and flows immediately from the prinTilhtjon.
ciple of fclf-prefervatton.
Thofe imprelfions were made when the brain
was more fufctptive of them : tliey have been
deeply engraven at the proper f^afon, and therefore
fVarti.
they remain.

But thou wilt be avcngM on my hiifJceds,

:

py defaiance.

face.

Grave ; folemn.

upon Adam.

;

mifcarriage

ufe.

Deh'ply. eid'v. [from deep."]

8, Full of contrivance ; politick; infidious.
When I have mj(b need to employ a friend,
Dttf, hollow, treacheroas, and full of guile.
Be he to mc.
Sbakeffeari' 1 Richard III,
if

Failure j

Pope.

Piaufibfc to the world, to me worth nought. Mitt.',
I do not difcoTcr the helps which this great man

!

Hbakffeare*

Depa'ilance. n.f. [i/j/a/V/aarf, French.]

[deep ai\d muj'e.]
loft'in thought.

Of enemies, of aids, battles, and leagues,

O Ood

Thy womb let l,K)fe, to chace us to our graves.

But he derp-ir.ufiirg o'er the mountains ftray'4.
Through many thickets of the woodland fliadc.

Venled nmth policy and projcfts dap

9;

abolifher ; violator.
That f 'ul defacer of Cod's handj-work

adj.

Contemplative ;

Shak.

Ho ii>iny ear

Defa'cer. »./. [from deface.] Deftroyerj

Cay.

train.

Sbakrfptarc.

The (pirit c( detp prophecy

Shekefpearc.

fea.

"Then toils for beaftj, and lime for birds were
found,
A;'.d dop-m-.utb'd iag,i did forell walks fvrroupd.
Drydtn.
Hills, dales, and forellf far behind remain,
Willie the warm fcent draws on the de-.p-mwlh^d

PnV.

lation ; injury ; ralure ; abolition j deftruftion.
But what is this image, a|id how Is it defaced ?
The poor men of Lyons will tell you, that the
image of God is purity, and the defacement fin.
Baton*

Behold the Ehglifli beach
Pales In the florid with men, with wives and boys,
Whcfi: fhoiJt! ind elaps outvoice that derf-mouth'd-

b, l^ot Aipetfioiul ; not obvious.

7. S:'gacious ; penetrating ; having
power to enter far into a fubjefl.

The ftoick's image in this piece.

Defa'cembnt. «,/ [hom deface."] Vio-

Huntlnian, 1 charge thee, tender wellmy hound) i
Anil cou^e Clowder with (h: difp-mmib'd Brach.

from the ooter part

trmplatlon."

One nobler wretch can only rlfisi
'Tis he whofe fury fball deface

\

And breathes a browner horror on the woods. Perfe.
DBEP-MOUTHkD. adj. [Jeep inA tMuti.]
Having a hoarfe and load voice.

In a high degree.

To keep his promifc with him, he had deeply
offended both his nobles and people.
Bacon'i Henry Vll.

Deep. it./, [from the adjeftive.]
man.
/Iddiftm.
Dp/BPNESt. n./. [from deep.] Entrance
the main ; the abyfs of waDefa'matory. adj. [from defame.] CaI. The fea
far below the furface ; profundity
;

the ocean.
Yet we did lift up our hearts and voices to God
abovit, whi'lhewcth his wonders in the deej^. Bacon.
Vhit earth in her dark bow-l» could njt keep
ters ;

FrOrr. greedy mnn, lies faicr in the deep.

fTalltr.

Whoe'er thou art, whom fortune crin^s to keep
Tbdcri'csof Mcptunc, monarch of the liarf. fope.
i. The moR folemn or ilill part.
There want not many that ^lo fear.
In diff of nighty to walk by this Heine's oak.

lumnious ; tending to defame ; unjulUy

Cazjianer fet fonvard with great toil, by reafon
of the deef'iiefi of the way, and hcaviiicfs of the
^nolles^
great ordnance.
Some fell upon ftony places.and they withered,
bccaufe they had no deepnej'i of earrh.

cenforious ; libellous ; falfely fatirical.

The moll eminent fin is the fpreading of dfamHiory reports.
Gcvemmtnt ef tretongue.
Auguilus, confcious to himfelf of m^ny critnes,
made an ciift agalnft lampoons and falires, and

Matihfw, xiii. 5.

Debr. »./.

defamatory writings.

TheAf/'of n5ghtis crept open our talk.'SAai.
Virgin face divine
youth through ftorms and

haplefs

waves,

Alone in deep of night.

in publick ; to deprive of honoor ; to
difhonour by reports ; to libel ; to calumniate ; to dcilroy reputation by either afts or words.
1 hear^ the defaming of many.

Philipu
Sbukejpeare*
broke open my lodge.
Waller.
The pale that held my lovely deer.
7e 1>e'hpek. v. a. [from deep.]
To make deep ; to Hitk far below the To DEFA'CE. V. a. [dcfaire, French.]
I
'J'o Uettroy

'

The city of Rome would teceivt a great advantage from

;

mcnt may be the hi^hcft.

To make fad or gloomy.

Dryden*^

Defa'me.

Whitgifte.

Undoing all.
Shakejfearet
Pay turn lix thoufand, and deface the bond.

I

f.

[from the verb.]

Dif-

Many doughty knights he in bis days
Had done to death.
And hung their conquer'd arms for mare M«me

On f diowtrees.

Isptnjcr.

Dej amer. n.f, ['ixom defame.] 0{^'»hat
Sl'ukefpcarei

'

}

fi.

grace ; difhonour : not in ofe.

D'faeing monuments of conquer'd FraiKe,

P, leham.

Her gloomy f r<feftec fadJcns all the fce<ie,u
4lu(les ev'ry HuW'r,'a*(J ^aikeiit ev'ry gVeeo, '

dif-i

Fatal this marriage,

See Deep,,

MfJ

to ruin ; to

unkindly (/f/jrin^ and flandering it.

to cloud ; to make dark.

You mult deepen \our colours fo, that the irpi
3.

ra'^ce ;

Give mc leave to fpeak as earneflly in truly
commending it, as you have done in untruly and

tlie

To darken

to

Decay of Piny.

My guilt thy growing virtues did defamti
My blacknefs blotted thy ucblemiih'tl name.

figure.

undertaking, as it would raiie the
tanks jnd deipm the bed of the Tiber.
Addiftn.

J,

;

yer. xx. 10.

They live as if they profcfledchriftianity merely
in fpite, to defame it.

.

Ajrface.

Dryder.i

Saxon ; tbUr, Teu- To DEFA'MF,. -v. a. [de &nd fama, Lat.]
That clafs of
Greek.
To make infamous ; to cenfure falfely

[beofi,

tonick ; fl^?,
animals which is hunted for venifon,
containing many fubordinate fpecies
as the (lag or red deer, the buck or filllow deer, the roebuck, and others.
You have beaten my men, kiUbd my deer, and

Sl.:kijpeare.

Attra% the

depth.

Wh

-fc

IVataes, frccies, columns biokon Ue,

injures rhc
I

reput.-iiioii' of

another ;

a

detradlor ; a" calumniator.

And, tiiou){h de/tu'd, tSve weo>ier of the cjt. ^>jk!.
11

It

D E F

P E. F

It may ht a ufeful trial of the patience of the

defamed^ jet the dcfatr.ir has not tne >fs crime.
Gover- mcut of th€ Icngue.

To DEFA'TIGATE. -v. a. idefatigo, Lat.l
To weary ; to ti.".
Dr. Mah.i..

Defatica'tion. n. f.

[de/aligatio, La.-

tin.J

Wearinefs ; fatigue.

Change of feature ;

Haytuood.

1.

Want; failure.

2.

A falling away

Jtfault of re-il ones.

j^rbuthnol an Crws.

.

To purify from any extraneous or noxious mixture ; to clear ; to brighten.

2.

^

To Defa'ult.

!

We defecate the notion from materiality, and

1.

golden colour.

contraft or ftipulaticm.

Purification ;

2. Defeafanct is a condition annexed to an
aft ; as to an obligation, a recogni-

zance, or ftatute, which performed by
the obligee, or the cognizee, the aft is
difabled and made void, as if it had never been done.
Cenjuell.
3- The writing in which a defeafance is
contained.
defeat; conqueft ; the aft of con4-

The

I.

Prove our commodities.

;

to undo.

Slaitjp.
Yc giidj, yc make the weak moft liiong ;
Thcr<:iil, yc god., ye tyrants do defeat.
Shakifp.
'''hey invaded Ireland, and wcrd defeated by
the
lorci

Mountjoy.

Bacun.

J ^uilrate.

To his accofations
He pleaded ftill not guilty, and alhg'd
Many SLug rcafuni to defeat the law. Sbahfftere,

Defective or- dtfdent Nouns.

Defe'ctiveness. n. /. [from defclli'ue.'\

Want

We had rather follow the perfections of them
whom we like not, than in dtftclt refeinble them
whom we love.
HsAeif
You praife yourfclf.
By laying defcBs of judgment to me.
'1

rurt

Any natural imperfeftion

Tope.

To Defe'ct.

rj.

n.

be deficieat ; to

any fingle part appear in perfcdtion.

I,

dwi:3r in

for defence in Judah.

;

lecurity.

Jerufalem, and built cities
2 Chroi ula, ij. 5.

The L(»rd is your protedllon and Itrong Itay, 1
defttice

tnm hca:, and a cover from the fun.
Ecclef. xxxiv. 16.

Be thou roy (Irong rock for an houfe af dfnce
to lave me.
Pfulm xxxi. j.
Agjinilsll t'liis there feems to be no defence, but
that of fuppoitlng one urtabliflied form of doitrine

Obfolete.

DEFECTiBi'LlTy. «./. [from defcaihls.']
The ftate of failing ; deficiency ; im-

Guard; proteftion
Rchobcam

To

vKy, and tired within tite fuber circumfe:cnce uf
knowledge.
Jircicn's P^ulgar Errmrj,

Addifin.

DEFE'NCE. tt.f. \deftrtfio, Lat.]

llwrt of; to fail.

Some loft thcmfclves \if jttempts abo\-e hum.inity j yet the enquiries of moft dcfcHed by the

the ftate of being imperfeft ;

Thelowncfs often opens the building in breadth,
or the d'ftBi-vencfs of fome other particular makes

;

[from the noun.]
fall

;

faultinefs.

Sialeffeare.

not youi&lf i but, your dcfelit to know.

Make ufc of evry friend— and ev'ry foe.

[In gram-

mar.] Indeclinable nouns, or fuch as
want a number, or fome particular cafe.

which wants fome of its tenfes.

Sbakefpeare.

miftake ; errour.

SKi'-zTftare.

Dfui th> fav „ir with ulurpcd heard.

2.

;

words, yet faii not to expfclii their univerfal ideas
by figns.^
L^ie.

To Deff.'at. v. a. [from the noui).]

giving proper fentimentj to the perfons
they introduce.
AdJifon.

Defective yeri. [in grammar.] A verb

jStiii'iJjn,

A king, up in whofe life

To overthrow

A fault

].

Faulty ; vitious ; blameable.
Our tragedy writers have been notorioufly dc-

fefiiie in

Failing ; imperfeftion.

a blemifti ;
a failure, without direft implication of
any thing too little.
Men, through fome drf3 in the organs, want

Aft of deftruftion ; deprivation.

3.

Sljcimsre,

Oft 'tis fccn

..

End Marlb' rough's Wjrk and fjnifli ihtjefeal.

;

Our mean fecures us, and our mete deff!s

DEFE'AT. »./. [from itfairt, French.]

I.

Want; abfenceof lomething neceflary

Davies,

z.

The overthrow of an army.

Arbuthnot on AlimfKts*
It will very little help to cure my ignorance,
that this is. the bed of four or five hypothefes propofeJ, which are all defeClive.
Lucke,
If it renders us perfect in-one accompliihment,
it generally leaves us defcclive in another.
Addifn.

their

Had this ftrange energy been lef>,

nulled or abrogated.
He cime to the crown by a JifatfiUe title, fo
was never weli fettled.
Vnvks.

A damn'd defeat was made.

liver are obftrufted in

infufficiency ; the fault oppofed to l"uperfluity.
Errors have been corrcflcd, and defds fupplied.

Being arrived where that champion ttont.
After his foe's deftafar.ct, did remain.
Him goodly greets, and fair docs entertain.

2.

and

fpleen

Difeli had been as fatal as excels.

Defe'asible. atlj. [from defaire, Fr.'to
make void.] That which may be an-

upon a defellrve projcflile motion of the blood.

DEFE'CT. n.f. [defeaus, Latin.]

^

1

Latin.]
the aft of clearing or pu-

ofHces of defication, whence vicious and dreggifh
blood.
Harvry.

quering J the ftate of being conquered.

Spenfer.

Brovin's Vulgar Errouru

Full of defefts; imperfeft; not fufficient ; not adequate to the purpofe.
It fubjeifts them to all the difeaf-rs depending

2.

rifying.

A

Obfolete.
That hoary king, with all his train,'

Nor will polilheJ amber, although it fend forth
a'grofs and corporeal exhalement, be found a long
time defeSlive upon the exafteft fcalcs.

Brjyle.

^

The aft l; annulling or abrogating any Defeca'tion. n,
f. [dcfeecatio,

Baan.

Defe'ctive. adj. [from defe3ivus,X-s.\..'\
1. Wanting the juil quantity.

no abfurdities to defecate faculties.
Glanville.
This liquor was very defecate, and of a pleafing

that makes default.

DEFE'ASANCE. n.J. [Ji/aifance. Fr.]

revolt.
He was diverted and drawn from hence by the
gencial defcBwn of tlie whole realm.
Da-vies.
Neither can this be meant of evil govcrnours or
tyrants, but of fome perverfenefs and dcftition in
the very nation itfelf.

[from the noun.]
abftra^l (juantity, place, and all kind of corporeity
To fail in performing any contraft or from it.
Claifvi/le.
ftipulation ; to forfeit by breaking a De'fecate. adj. [from the verb.] Purged
contraft.
from lees or foulnefs.
We are puzzled with contradiftions, which are
Defa'ultbr, «./ [from the verb.] One
v. n.

Attcrhury^

.

bat remains muddy.
Harvey.
Provide a brazen tube
Inflext; felf-taught a:id voluntary flies
I'he defecated li4uor, through the vent
Afcending; then, by downward UiCt convey'd,
Spouts into fubjc^ velTcls lovely clear.
Philips,

upon the fubje^l.
Davies,
Cooks could make artificial birds and fifhes, in

apoftacy.
away from Cod was

falling

found i.i angels, and afterwards in men,

There is more evil owing to our original defeflius
from God, and the foohfli and evil dilpofitions that
are found in fallen man.
yVatts,
3. An abandoning of a king, or ftate;

rified,

laid

4. [In law.] Non-appearance in court at
a day affigned.
Co^ell.

praailed a way xo^efecntc the dark and muddy
of amber.
BriU,

The blood is not fulEciently defecated or cla-

5. Defe£l ; want.
In litfttult of the king's pay, the force* were

[de/eaio,l.^\.\n.'\

RaUigh.
It we fall away after tafting of the good
word
of God, how criminal muft fuch a defciiian be

to purify ; to cleanfe.
I

;

This defection and
firft

:

oil

m a dtfeai.
Halet

Defe'ctjon. n.f.

DE'FECATE. -v. a. [defaco, Latin.]
1. To purge liquors from lees or fbulnefs;

Shaiifftari.

Imperfeft ; deficient; wanting.
The exttaordinavy perfons, thus higbiy favourtic condition.

To

Let me not rallily call in doubt
Divine predi(£lion
what if all foretold
Had be;n fulfill'd, but thro' mine own default.
Whom hire 1 to complain of but myfeif ? Miiton.
Partial judges we are of our own excellencies,
and other men's difauUt,
Swift.

Origin cf MAiikir:d.

ed, were for a great part of their lives

alteration of coun-

Grief hath chang'd me,
And careful hours, with time's' deformed hand.
Hath wriit^ ilrange defeatures in my face.
Sbak.

We, that know what 'tis to fall and prav.
Are penitent for your dtfault to-day,

I.

tenance : not in ui'e.

Sedition tumbled into England more by the i/i-fiiilt of governors than tiie people's.

ili>le''s

DefE , CTIBLE. ac{j. [itQaxd(f<ft.]

Defe'ature. n.f. [from tie andf'ea/t/iv.]

.

Crime ; failure ; fault.

z.

Digly.

The corruption of things corruptible depends
upon the inlrtnfical dcfeaibility of the conneftion
or union of the parts of things corporeal.

To abolilh; to undo; to change.

3.

Omiilion of that which we ought to do j
negled.

I .

been (litwn, as alfo the defeBthmty of that
partiticular tradition.
Lord Di^hy 10 Sir Ken.

Being, that can drfai all his defigns, and difippoint all his hopes.
Tilkrfn,

Di^l.

.

DEFAULT. «. /. yefaut. French.]

The perfcflion «nd Ciffisiency of Serif ture ha»

You flculk'd.
Drydeit.
He finds himfelf naturally to dread a fuperior

The power of thefe men's indullricSi never <ic
fctigaiii, hith been great.

••DBF

Death,
'Then due by fentence when thou diail tranfgrefs,
Dtfattd of his I'eizuie, many days,
Giv'n thee of grace.
Mlltoti.
Difcover'd, and defeated of your prey,

and difcipline.
t.

Stvft»

Vindication ; j unification ; apology.
Alexander beckoned w:th his hand, and would
have made hi^ defence unto the people.
Atls, xix. 33.

The youthful prince
With fcors replied, and made thin bold defence,

perfeftion.

Dryden,

3 0*2.

3. ProJiibi-

3. Prohibition

:

this

is

a fcnfe merely

This is the day appointed for the combat,

may be made

Severe dtfcneit

Plaintiff dog, tud hear defendant.

Imfle.

The defendant's reply after

Defe'nder. n.f. [defen/or, Latin,]
One that defends a champion.
1

6. [In fortification.]
another work.

The part that flanks

7e Depe'.ice, 'V. a.

[titfenfus,

To

An afferter

2.

[In law,]
An advocate ; one that defends another in a court of jullice.

My fifter is not fo Jt/tKcdf/t left
As you imagine llie has a hidden (Irengtb
Miltcn.
Which you remember not.
Ah me that fear
:

!

Comes thund'ring back with dreadful revolution
Milton.

f)eftr.ctlrfi,

Dryim-

Impotent ; unable to make refiftance.
V.ill fuch a multitude of men employ
jiiUl.

To DEFE'ND. -v. a. [defendo, Latin ; defendre, French.]
1. To ftand in defence of ; to proteft ; to

Defe'nsative. n.f. [hom defence.]
defence.
1. Guard
A very unfafc defenfative it is againft the fury
;

the like, ul'ed to fecure a wound from
outward violence.

Defe'ksible. a.i;. [from defence.]
1. That may be defended.

To vindicate ;

to

uphold ;

is able

the moft deferjitle cities in the world,
myfelf in what its ftrength confifts.

And here th' accefs a gloomy grove defends.
And here th' unnavigable lake extends. Dr/deti.

A village near 11 was defended by the river.
Clarendon.

To prohibit; to forbid, [defendre, Fr.]
!

like one of us man is become,

To know both good and evil, fince his tafte
Milton.
Of that defended fruit.
The ufe of wine is little praiflifed, and in fome
1'emple.
places defended by cuftoms or laws.

To maintain a place, or caufe, againll
J.
thofe that attack it.
Let me be loremoft to defend the throne,
And guard my father's glories anl my own. Pcfe.
So have I feen two rival wits contend,

One hrilkly charge, one gravely wife defend. Smith.
Defk'ndable. adj. [from defend,'] That
may be defended.

Dbpe'ndant. adj. [dom defendo, Lat.]
Defenfive ;

fit

Defe'nsive. adj.

\defenfif, Fr.

for defence.

.

E

Lat.] That carries up and down.

The figures of pipes or concaves, through which
founds pafs, or of other bodies deferent, conduce to
Bacon,
the variety and alteration of the found.

De'ferent. «. / [from the adjeflive.J
That which carries ; that which conveys.
It is certair, however, it ciolTcs the received Opithat founds may be created without air,

nion,

though

of

Biiccn.

1.

A challenge

;

[fromdej!, Fr.]
an invitation to fight.

The fiery '1 ybalt, with his fword prepar'd.
Which, as he breath'd defiance to my ears,

Hu fwung about his head.

Shakefpeare.

Nor is it juft to bring

What ftood, recoil'J,
Defeiifive fcarce, or with pale fear furprij'd,

2.

Dryden,
A war, without a jijft defiance made.
A challenge to make any impeachment

good.

Milton.

Defe'nsive. n.f. [from the adjeftivc.]

3.

Safeguard.
Wars preventive, upon juft fears, are true de-

fenfivei, as well as on aflual invafions.

deferent

DEFI'ANCE. ». /

h'aller.

z.

moft favourable

for the conveyance of humours from one
C/jaml/trs.
place to another.

In a ftate or pofture of defence.

I.

be the

De'ferents. »./. [In forgery.] Certaiii
vcffels in the human body, appointed

Defenfive arms lay by, as ufclefs here,

Fled ignominious.

air

founds.

Where maffy balls the neighbouring rocks do tear.

Expreffion of abhorrence or contempt.
The Novatian herefy was vet)' apt to attra^
well-meaning fouls, who, freing it bade fuch exprefs defiance to apoilacy, could not fufpedt tiwt it
was itfelf any defection from the fa'th.

Bacon.

State of defence.

Decay ef Piety,

His majefty, not at all difmayed, refolved to
Clarendon.
upon the defenfive only.

Nobody will fo openly bid defunce to common

ftand

fcnfe, as to affirm vifible and inziX contradictions.

Defe'nsively. aa'i'. [{rotade/en^ve.] In

Locke.

a defenfive manner.

DErtKBT. fan. paJJ'. [horn defence.] De- gEFl?[ENS:|''-^t^--.'^^-'L^'-3
fended.

Obfolete.

Stout men of arms, and with their guide of
power.
Like Troy's old town defenfi with Ilion's tower.
Fairfax.

IXefe'noakt. n.f. [from the adjedUve.]
Thofe high towers, out of which the Romans
might more conveniently fijht with the defendants
on the wall, thofe alfo were broken by AiohimeIVilkini^t Math. Magi;.
dei' engines.

D e'f E R N T. adj. [from deferens, oi defero,

from de-

He would not be perfnaded by danger to offer
any offence, but only to ftand upon the beft defenSidney.
Jive guard he could.
My unpreparcdnefs for war teftifies for me that
King Charles.
I am fet on the defenfve part.

Shakefpeare.

He that defends againft affailants.

hearts, difapprovc the opinions which they induf*
Addifon.
trioufly fpread among the multitude,

Collier.

fendens, Lat.]
That ferves to defend ; proper for de-

2.

Lccket

Submii&on,

3.

an adver-

ftry, and difabic him from doing mifchief.

Line and new repair our towns of war
With mtfi of courage, and with means defendant.

1,

capable of vindi-

1 conceive it very defenjihlc to difarm

Where can you fay, in any manner, age.
Chaucer.
That ever God defended marriage ?

O fons

fant to others; fo that he has no deference for their
inclinations, tempers, or conditions.

jiddifon.

fence ; not ofFenfive.

To

Complaifance ; condefcenfion.
A natu.al roughnefs makes a man uncomplai-

2.

Moft of our fellow-fubjefts are guided either by

cation.

1

4.

JulHfiable ; right ;

2.

to defend herfelf agajnfl all her majcfty's

Swift.

obferving thofe perfons, for whofe wifdom and
goodnefs he has the greateft deference, to be of a
contrary fentiment.
Swifu

informed

I

refpeft.

Virgil could have excelled Varius in tragedy,
and Horace in lyric poetry, but out of deference to
Diydett.
his friends he attempted neither.
He may be convinced that he is in an error, by

Bacen.
gainft the natives and againft ftrangers.
Having often heard Venice rcprefented as one of

to affert

enemies and allies put together.
fortify ; to fecure.
3.

Regard ;

1.

A field.

Shai-

to maintain.
The queen on the throne, by God's afliftance,

De'ference. n.f. [deference, Fr.]

the prejudice of education, or by a deference to the
judgment of thofe who, perhaps, in their own

Which nothing but the found of Hotfpur's name
Shnkeffeare.
Did ((Mm to make definfihle.
They muft make thcmfelves defenfible both a-

:

P/a/w lix. I.
Heav'n defmd your fouls, that you think

The commiffioners deferred the matter unto the
of Northumberland, who was the principal
Baun,
man of authority in thofe parts.

carl

A

fupport.
There arofe, to defend Ifrael, Tola the fon of
Judges.
Puah.
Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God
dtfend me from them that rife up againd me.

2.

ment and determination.

.

of the lion, and furely no better than virginity,
or blood royal, which Pliny doth place in cockBrown's Vulgar Errours.
broth.
If the biihop has no other defenfatwes but excommunication, no other power but that of the
keys, he ipay furrcnder up his paftoral fti'JT. South.
bandage, plafter, or
2. [In forgery.]

to delay.

To refer to; to leave to another's judg-

2.

South.
3.

Milton.

1 will your ferious and great bufinefs fcant.

Dryden.

a vindicator.

;

/)i/>rthepromis'd boon, the goddefs cries. Pafe.
Neither is this a matter to be deferred til! a more
S<ujift,
convenient time of peace and leifuie.

tray the truth, as to procure it a weak defender.

not

Captain or colonel, or knight in arms,
Whofe chance on theie drfcrteli/t doors may felzc.
Guard them, and him within protect from harms.

Their ftrcngth agiinft a weak dtfivcit/fi boy ?

;

To withhold

1.

Undoubtedly there is no way fo effeSnal to be-

provided with defence ; unprepared.

and fubmitted to my rage,
A b^ife revenge is vengeance on myfclf.

7e Defe'r. v. a,

vain.

Defe'nceless. ftt/j. [from Je/ince."]
unguarded;
1. Naked; unarmed;

On niy Jt/eme/ifi head.
On a (lavedifarm'd,

opinion.

And the defenders of our city flain ?

Fairfax.

To pay deference or tegard to another's

at length

Your ignorance deliver you,
As molt abated captives, to fame nation
Shaieffeare.
That won you without blows.
Do'ft thou not mourn our powV employ'd in

defend by fortification : not in ufe.
The city itfeU" lie (Irongly fortifies.
Three fi(le»by fix it well iLftnccJ has.

till

Mitttn.
practice

of good deeds j for the longer thou dtferrifi to be
acquainted with them, the Icfs every day thou
Aiierbury.
wilt find thyfelf difpofed to them.
2.

;

Banilli your defenders,

declaration produced.

Lat.]

Sbak.
Hudibras.

And ready are th' appellant and defendant.

againft wearing

any linen under a cerMiu brcadtlu
4. Refiftance.

2,

A^inft all eompetitien, nor will long
Endure it.
Inure thyfelf betimes to the love and

[In law.] Tlie perfon accufed or fued.

2.

French.

5. [In law.]

D E F

D E F

D E F

To DEFE'R.
I.

'I'o put

-v.

n.

[from differo, Lat,

off; to delay to aft.
He win not long defer

To vindicate the glory of bis name

I.

Want; fomething lefs than is neceflary.
What i; to be confidercd in this cafe, is chiefly,
if there be a fufficient fulnefs or deficiency of blood>

for different methods are to be taken.

Arhuthnot on Diet,

There is no burden laid upon our pofterity, nor
any deficiency to be hereafter made up by ourfelves,
which has been out cafe in fo many other fubfiAddijon.

dics,

2.

Dsfeaj

D E F

D E F

C. l>efe£l ; failing ; imperfeftion.
Scaliger, finding a deteit in

the reafon of Ari-

one of no lefs ^cfic'ur.cs himfelf.
Brr/wni Vuigar Errcurt.
Thou in thyfelf 'rt perfeft, and in thte
Isno i/cjjcittice found.
Milton.
We find, In cur own natures, too great evidence
of intclie^ual defcienccj and deplorable confeilions
of human ignorance.
GlamitlU.

z.

defedation.

3,

ftotle, intrcduceth

What great dcjidtnce is it, if we come fliort of
others ?

Luft,

By unchafte looks, loofe geftures, and foul talk.
Lets in defikmer.t to the inward parts.
Milton.
The unchafte are provoked to fee their vice
expofed, and the chafte cannot rake into fuch filtli

aloud for vengeance on her defiler,

[Jefidens, from deficio,

Latin.] Failing ; wanting ; defeftive ;
imperfeft.

of definition.
The Supreme Nature we cannot othcrwife de-

O woman

!

aJj.

Dryden,

Of God ordain'd them

:

be either circular or angular;

Miltin.
!

the fimple

the queflion
no.

jynton.

Neither Virgil nor Homer were deficient in any
of the former beauties.
Drydtn.
Several thoughts of the mind, for which we
have either none, or very deficient names, are diligently to be ftudied.

1.

are thofe numbers, whofe parts, added
together, make lefs than the integer
whofe parts they arc.

A chal-

and defies.
Is it not then high

Tillotfin.

ful, foul.]
;

make

to

nafty or filthy ; to dirty.
There is a thing, H<rry, known to many in
our hnd by the name of pitch ; this pilch, as
«ncient writers do report, d»th defilr.

To corrupt chaftity

I.

;

4.

To taint

;

to corrupt ;

To determine; to de-

tin.]
Having the quality of walling
away wholly in fire, without any re-

The unjuft judge is the capital remover of
landmarks, wlien be defintlb amifs of lands and

mains.
Our chymical

One that

of wine
flagrable.

to vitiate ; to

God requires rather that we fljould die, thin
with impieties.
SlilUngfieet.
Let not any inftanccs of fin defile your re'^uefts.

tion ;

many others.
Sluincy,
The true reafon why paper is not burned by the

flame tliat plays about it, fecms to be, that the
aqueous part of the fpirit nf wine, being imbibed
by the paper, keeps it fo moift, that the flame of
tlic fulphureous parts of the fame fpirit cannot
faftcn on it ; and therefore, when the dcfiagration
is over, you (hall always find the paper moil't.
Biyle.

in the arcufatory libel, or inquifition,

not, but licth in the true meridian : on the other
fide of the Azores, and this fide of the equator,

forth,

the north point of the needle wheelcth to the weft.

adjeftive.]

march ; to go off file by file.
Defi'le. n.f. [Jeffile, Fr. from//,?, a line
of foldiers, which is derived homjilum,
a thread.] A narrow paffage ; a long
narrow pafs ; a lane.

.e^ylifie.

military term, where the parti fans ufed
<^°""'"-

to cn-

Defi'lement. », / [from defile.'\

Tne

Mdif-m.

being defiled j the aft of defil-

thing elfe but a definite of the fpecial.

De'finiteness. fi. /.

[from

Certainty; limitedn«fs.

Defini'tion. «./.

definite.]

properties.
.i.cw

Blachnore.

Defle'ction. n. /. [from dejieilo, Lat.]
1.

my definition of poetical wit from my

particular cnnfideration of

him

;

for propriety of

thought* and wor«s it only to be ftund in him.

Dryden.

Deviation ; the aft of turning afide.
Needles incline to the fouth on the other fide of
the equator j and at the very line, or middle circle,
(land without deflexion.
Brown's Vulg. Errours.

[drfiniih, l,z\.. defini-

A (hort defcription of a thing by its
I

Bryivn^s Vulgar Errours.
For, did not fome from a llraight courfe defieU,
They could not meet, tijey could no world ercit.

Dii3.

tion, Fr.]
I.

To

which fuccceds in the place of accufation, fome
certain and definite time.
Aylifie't Purergon.

lV,ae.
_, _
YeDEPt LE. 1/. H. {dcffiler, French.] To

There is in Oxford a narrow defile, to ufe the

their prepara-

making y^Jthiops with fire, with fal

prunellse, and

Staiefpcare.

De'finite. ff. / [from the
Thing explained or defined.

,

as in

To DEFLE'CT. ni. n. {defleao, Lat.]

ths cafe of favour, would

Spc.ial bjftardy is n^ithlng elfc but the defi.iition of the general ; and the general, again, is no-

I

A term frequently made ufe of in chymiftry,

In a charge of adultery, the acculer ought to

Je/ile ourfelves

Boyle.

turn afide ; to deviate from a true courfe,
or right line.
At lome parts of the Azaics the nziSitdefie^etb

fet

fyifJ. xiv. 26.

more inflammable and de-

Sidney.

Exaft ; precife.
Be wifely ilefiniie.

Forgetfuincfs of good turns, defiling of fouls,
adultery, and Ihamelcfs uncleanncfs.

but the

for fetting fire to fcveral things in

who in a definite compafs can fct forth

infinite beauty.

Idiots, in

is,

Deflag ra'tion, »,yr \deflagratio, Lat.]

qualities.

Certain; limited; bounded.

make guilty.

ilate of

oiL-, fuppofing that they were
exaflly pure, yet they would be, as the beft fpirit

Bacon.

explains ; one that delcribes a thing by

goddefs,

z.

Boyle.

cide ; to decree.

Hither to your arbour divers times he repaired,
and here, by your means, had the fight of the

Lei: xxi, II,
to violate.

Ev'ry objcft his offence revil'd
;
The hufband murder'd, and the wife dtfil'd. Prior.

pctre did permit us to imagine.

DE'FINITE. adj. [from definitu!, Lat.]

Lev. xxW, 8.
Neither (hall he defile himfelf for his father.

3.

Defla'gr ABLE. adj. [from dejlagro, La-

!

Stvifi.

dfi/e himfelf therewith.

blacltnefs feenied as intenfe as that of the central
fpot.
Neivlan.

We

Your God, forfooth, is found
Incomprehenfiblc and infinite;
But it he therefore found ? Vain fearchtr no :
Let your imperfcft definition (how.
That nothing you, the weak dtfir.er, know. Prior.

may be

impure.
That which dieth of itfelf he (hall not eat, to

have fpent more time than the opinion of
the ready defiagraiility, if I may fo fpeak, of falt-

its

To pollute; to make legally or ritually

2.

When the rings appeared only black and white,
they were very diftinft and well defined, and the

mark the limit

Defi'ker. n.f. [from define.']

Stah/f-eart.

of this age, however his charafler
ilifileJ by mean and dirty hands.

Deflagrabi'liTy. n.f. [fvova defagro,
Lat.] Combuftibility ; the quality of
taking fire, and burning totally away.

to

properties.

He is juftly reckoned among the greatell pre
lates

Locke.

Defi'nitiveness. «./[from dejiniti've.']
Decifivenefs.
Dia.

to bound.

fo circumfcribe ;

To Defi'ne. v. n.

To DEFI'LE. V. a. [apian, Saxon, from

To make foul or impure

French.]
To give the definition ; to explain a
thing by its qualities and circumftances.

fome words that will not be defined.
2.

lenger; a contemner; one that dares
time that the laws fliould
provide, by the moft prudent and effeftual means,
to curb thofe bold and infolent defiert of Heaven ?

but my defert
;
Unmeritable, (huns your high requeft. Shakejfeare^
BcUarmine faith, becaufa we think that the
body of Chrift may be in many places at once,
locally and vifibly ; therefore we fay and hold, that
tlie fame body may be circumfcriptively and
definitively in more places at once.
Hall.
That Metheufelah was the longeft lived of all
the children of Adam, we need not grant; nor
is it definitively fet down by Mofes.
Brovjns Vulgar Errours*

Burnetts Theory.

\^ hofe lofs can'ft thou mean
;
That doft fo well their miferies define ?
Sidney.
Though defining be thought the proper way to
make known the proper fignification, yet there are

arithmetick ]

Defi'er. »./. [from deffi, Fr.]

Vour love deferves my thanks

To DEFI'NE. a/, a. [defnio, Lat. definer,

Lucke.

Deficient Numbers [in

Pofitively ; decifwely ; exprefsly.
Definitively thus I anfwer you :

Concerning the time of the end of the vrorld,
is, whether that time be definable or

and of circular,

eitlier complete, as circles, or deficient, as ovals.

and definitive

Defi'nitively. adv. [from dejiniti've.^

That which may be afcertatned.

2.

ftricft

Brown s Vulgar Errours*

I make hafte to the carting and comparting of
the whole work, it being indeed the very definitive
fura of this art, to dift.ibute ufefully and gracefully a well chofen plot.
IVotton.

than by faying it is infinite ; as if infinite
were dfinabk, or infinity a fubjeft for our narrow
understanding.
Dryden.

his creating hand

Nothing imperfeft or deficient left.
Figures are either fimplc or mixed

matters wherein is cxpefled a
truth.

fine,

left of all things, as the will

Latin.]

pofitive ; exprefs.
Other authors write often dubioufiy, even !n

jiddifon.

Defi'nable. adj. [from dtfine.'\
1. That which may be defined ; capable

have been defcribeJ to us in hiftory.

[dejtmti'vus,

Determinate ;

a corrupter ; a violater.
At the laft tremendous day, I Ihall hold forth
in my arms my much wronged child, and call

made perfeft, but always to be drawn with
fome fpecks of frailty and iUfcmct, fiich as they

Bentley.

One that Pefi'nitive. adj.

defiles ;

to be

Defi'cient.

for that is not an adequate and diftinguifliing dtf-

SpcBator.

Defi'ler. //. /. [from dejile.'\

Sprait.

Decifion ; determination,
[In logick.]
The explication of the
effence af a thing by its kind and difference.
What is man ? Not a teafonable animal merely
niiion.

without danger of rff^/jm.w.

The charaQers of comedy and tragedy are never

1

D E F

ing; nallinefs; pollution; corruption;

2.
3.

A turning afide, or out of the way.
[In navigation.]

The departure of a

Jhip from its true courfe.

DfcKLE'xuRE. n.f. [from deflello, Latin.]
A bending down ; a turning afide, or
out of the way,
Dia,

Peflora'tion«

D E F

D E F
De^lora'tio-k.

n. f.

Ugly;
[deformis, Lat.]
disfigured; of an irregular form.

Dipo'rm. adj.

\_dtJUratitH, Fr.

from dtfiiraluj, Lat.]

.

D E F

The ad of deflouring ; the taking away
of a woman's virginity.
2. A fclcdion of that which is moft valu-

I

1.

able.

The liws of Normandy are, in a great meafnrc,
the d^jhrtiin of the Eiglilfc lavM, aiui a trsnfcript
of thf rn.
Hale*

Xo DEFRA'Y. v. a. [defrayer, Fr.]

A defacing

;

charges belonging to the facrilices. z Mac. ix. 16.
It is eal'y to lay a charge upon any town ; but
to forefee how the fame may be anfwered and
defrayed, is the chief part of good advifement.

MUton.

[deformatio, Lat.]

a disfiguring.

Yizvo'v.yii.D. participial adj.
ing natural beauty.

Sfenfer't Slate of Ireland.

Ugly; want-

long fince any ftranger arrived in thii
and thererbre taice ye no care ; the ftate
will defray you all the time you (lay j neither fliall
you ftay one day the lefs for that.
Bfcon.
It is

part,

Ecclus. XX. 4.

DEro'RMEDi.y. adv. [from /t/erw.] In
an ugly manner.
And let my fpVenfii! fons this trull drfi'mr. Shak.
[from defomui.']
2. To- take away the beauty and grace of Defo'rmednes*. n.f.
Uglinefs ; a difagreeable form.
any thing.

Now will I hence to feirk my lovely mdor,

.

Defo'rmity. n. f. [defarmitas, Lat-]

How on 1 liidden loft,
Defiic'd, iefitur'd, and now to death devote !

1.

Mxhon,
If he died young, he died innocent, and before
the fwcctnefsof his foul was deji'.ured and raviflicd
from him by the flames and follies of a froward
age.

I have often wondered, that thofe drficurcn of
innocence, though dtad to all the fcnciments of
virtue and honour, are not retrained iy humanity.

Deflu'ous. adj. [defluus, Lat.]
I.

That flows down.
That falls off.

Shaicfptare.

the quality of foniething worthy to be laughed at, or cen-

2. Ridiculoufnefs ;

Deflc'x. n.f. [defluxus, Latin.]

Down-

One

"^

that difcharges expences.

Defra'yment. n.f. [from dtfray.] The
payment of expences.
Obfolete.

Neat ; handfome ; fpruce.
2. Proper; fitting.
You go not the way to examine
1.

Prpper dformity feems not in the fiend
Siah/feare.
So horrid as in woman.
Where fits dcfirmity to mock my body.
To (hapt my legs of an unequal fixe.
Shtieffuri.
To difproportion me in every part.
Why fhould not man,
Retaining ftill divine fimilitude
In part, from fuch deformUies be free.
And, for his Maker's image fake, exempt ? MVt.

vilher ; one that takes away virginity.

Defra'yer. n.f. [from defray.

DEFT. adj. [hxyx. Sax.]

Unlefs to fpy my fliadow in the fur.

Df FLo'uiiiii. »./ [from d/i/wr.] A ra-

z.

Uglinefs; ill-favourednefs.
1, in this weak piping time of peice,
Have no delight to pafs away the time,

And dcfcant on mine own dtfrm'uy-

Tayl'.r.

To

bear the charges of; to difcharge expences.
He would, out of his own revenue, defray the

So fpake the griefly terror ; and in fliape.
So fpcaking and fo threatening, grew tenfold
Mihtm.
More drcadftil and diform.
Sight fo deform what heart of rock could long

vh-ginity.
fc i> he that executjth judgment with violence.

The proHigate in morals grow fcvere,
Defrauderi }ii(i, and fycophants fincerc. BhelmfTe.

$ptnjer.

Dry-eyed behold?
To DEFLO'UR. -v. a. [J,/<,rtr. Fr.]
1. To ravifh ; to take away a woman's Deforma'tion. a./

As is the loft of an eunuch to JtJIour a virgin,

deceiver ; one that cheats.

did proclaim.

That whofo kill'd that monller moft difvrm.
Should have mine only daughter to his dame.

A

Defra'udir. n.f. [from Jefraj/d.]

:

you mart «aU

the watch that are their accafcrs.—

Vea, marry, that 's the diftefi way.

Sbaktff.

Ready; dexterous.

3.

Loud fits of laughter fciz'd the guelh to fee

The limping god fo deft at bis new miniftry.
Drydtn.

The wanton calf may (kip with many a bound.
And my cur. Tray, pjay diftrji feats around. Gay.
Hi.' r r LY. ad-v. [itom deft.'] Obfolete.
1. Neatly ; dexteroufly.
Come, high or low,
Thyfelf and office deftly (how. Shak. Mechetb.

ward flow.

fured.
In comedy there Is fomewhat more of the worfe

Both bodies are clammy, and bridle the dejliix
of humours, without penning them in too much.

likenefs to be taken, becaufe it is often to produce

In a fkilful manner.
Young Colin Clout, a lad of poerlefs meed.

laughter, which Is occafioned by the light of fome

Full well could dance, and deft/y tune the reed.

Bacon*

The

Deflu'xion. n.f. [dejluxie, Lat.]

flow of humours downwards.
We fee that taking cold moveth loofencfs, by
contraction of the ikin and outward parts ; and (o
doth cold likewife caufe rheums ajid dcfuxms from
the head.
Bactn.

De'fly. adv. [from de/i."] DexterouQy
Properly deftly.

Obfolete.

ikilfully.

;

They dauncen dcfly, and fingen foo'.e.
I

.

». y;

This

is

Sfcnjtr.

[from defixdus, Lat.]

The aft of making

fiithy ;

no Englifh word ;

pollution.
at Icaft,

to

make it Englifh, it ihould be written
dtffdatioH.

What native unextingaifhable beauty muft be
imprclTed and infttti^ed through the whole, which
the drfudaUdft of fo many parts by a bad printer,
and a worfe editor, could not hinder from ihiniag
Bint'ey.

forth !

f

A
n.f. [{rom Or ce.']
withholding of lands and tenements by
force from the right owner.

3D£Fo'*CEMENT.

are fuch, that the perturbation aninovelty arc not
like to exceed the benefit of reforming.

K.CharUs.

Defo'rsor. n.f. [iromforceur, Fr.] One
that overcomes and cafteth out by force.
Blount.

To DEFRA'UD. tv. a. [defraudo, Latin.]
To rob or deprive by a wile or trick ;

To the inftruracnt;

D E Fo E D a't o n

Irregularity; inordinatenefs.
No glory is more to be envied than that of due
reforming either church or ftate, when dtfonr.Uia

A law term.

La, hnw finely the graces caa it foot

In their merriment.

Dry dm.

dfcrmity.

3.

To DEFO'RM. 'V. a. [deform!, Lat.]
I. To disfigure; to make ugly; to fpoil
the form of any thing.
I that am curtatl'd of aU fair proportion.
Cheated of feature by diilenihiing nature,
Dffrm'd, unfinilh'd, fent before my time

jUuo tbii breatiung woild, Icarce half made up.
Sbjkijfcart.

Wintry blafts
Tltmfim.
Dtfarm the year dclightlef?.
Z. To dilhonour ; to make ungraceful.

Old men with dull dcfrrr.'d tlKit hoary hair.
Drfdcn-

to cheat ;

2,

O.iy.

DEFU'NCT. ae^. [defunSus, Lat.] Dead;
deceafed.
I therefore beg it not

To pleafe the palate of my appetite;
Nor to comply with heat, the young afiefts.
In me defunli, and proper fatisfattion.
Sbakejf,
Here entity and quiddity.
The fouls oi dcfunH bodies, fly.
Uudihra-.

Defu'nct. n.f. [from the atljedlive.]
One that is deceafed j a dead mau or
woman.

to cozen ; to deceive ; to be-

guile
with of before the thing taken
by fraud.
Tha» no man go beyond and defraud his brother
:

in any matter^ becaufe that the Lord is the avenger of all fuch, as we alfo have forewarned you
and tertified.
Tbtff. iv. 6.

Nature doth abhor to make his couch

With the defimft, or fleep iipon the dead.
Stah
In many cafes, the fcarchers are able to report
the opinion of the phyfician who was with the
patient, asthey receive the fame from the friends
of the dtfunft.
Graunt.

Defo'nction. n.f.

My fon, defraud not the poor o/'his living, and

[from

defu/ia,

}

Death.

make not the needy eyes to wait long.

Nor did the French pcfTefs the Salique land
Until four hundred one and twenty years
After defun^'nn of king Pharamond. Sbakcheare.

Ecrltis. iv. I.

Churclics fcem iiijurcd and defrauded of their
right, when places, not fanclificd as they arc,
prevent them unneccfTarily in that preeminence and
Hcckcr.
honour.

To DEFY', ti. a. [deffier, Fr. from d'e fide
decedere, or fome like phrafe, to fall

There they, who brothers better claim difown,
Expel their parents, and ufurp the throne ;

from allegiance to rebellion, contempt,
or infult.]

Vefraud their clients, and, to lucre fold.

To call to combat

1.

Pryden.
But now he feiz'd Brifx:i^' iieav'nly charms
And cf my valourN prize dfrauds my arms. Fcfi.
There is a portion of our lives which every wifi
man m>y juftly rfferve for his nwnparticul ir ufc,
Drydtn.
without defrauding his nativr country.

Sit brooding on unprufitablr gold.

Dryd.it,

Agis, the Lycian, ftepping forth with pride.

Privation by fraud.
than aqy other,
pecuniary drfraudaucn:.

not only into
but the irr«f arable 4cocit of dcnh.

deluding

Urmn't I'td^r Eirmn.

to challenge.

.'

Defraud a't ION. n.f. \d:fraudo, Lat.]
Their impofturcs are worfe

;

once a«ain
Defy thee to the trial of mortal fight.
BtHttn.
Whcic feck retreat, now innocincc is fled
Safr in that guard, I durft even hell d.fy
;
Without it, tremble now when heav'nis n'gh.
I

2.

To fingle fight thr boldeii foe dtfed.
Vryden,
To treat with contempt ; to flight.
As many fools that (land in better place.
Garni ft) 'd like him, that fur atnckfy word

Defy the matter.

Sljinjftare,

Defy'.

D E G

D E G

D E G

chalDEify'. n.f. [from the verb.]
lenge ; an invitation to fight ; tiiis is
now bardly ufed.
At this tbe cha!!' -zv, with fierce dtfy.

DECE'tJERors. at(/. [from degemr, Lat.]

His tru/npcc Ibuniki tbe challtng'd makcj reply

Let not the tumultuary violence of fume raen*s
immoderate demands ever betray me to that de^e-ntrcttt and unmanly flavcry, which ftould n>ake

Well then, Coleville is yodr name, a knlgfit r«
your degree, and your place the dale. Shakcjpcrt*
Digree being vizarded,
Th' uaworthieft fnews as fairly in the niaik. Slai.
This noble youth to madnefs lov'd a dame
Of high degree, Honoria washer name. Dryden,
Farmers in dfgrce;
He a good hulbwd, a good houfewife Ihe. Dyitttr
Uut is no rank, no Hation, no degree,^

A

Degenerated; fallen from the virtue
aod merit of anceftors.
2. Vile; bafe; infamous; unworthy.
1.

:

With clangour rings tlie field, refounds the vaulted
Drydcn.

iky.

Cjfy'er.s./ [frOBii/^.] A challenger;

me ftrengthen tlicni by my confent.
Shame, inlh^d of piety,

one that invites to fight : more properly
God may revenje the affronts put upon them
by fuch impudent dtfyert of both, as neither believe a God, nor ought to be believed by man.
Scath.

It feats its empire in the

ployed

Decluti'tion.

n.f. [deglutition, Fr.
from deglutio, Lat.] The aft or power
of fwallowing.

TJiotJ'.n.

The ruin of a ftate is generally preceded by an

-v.

».

[degemrare,

Lat. digenerer, Fr. degentrar, Spanifli.]
1. To fall from the virtue of aocellors.
2. To fall from a more noble to a bafe

When wit tranfgielTeth decency, it dtgneratu
into infolence and mipietv.

•rilhrjon.

To fall from its kind; to grow wild
or bafe.
Moft of thofe fruits that ufe to be grafted, i(

they be fet of kernels or ftones, degenerate.

Bacon.

Dege'nerate. adj. [from the verb.]
1.

Which fight the knowledge of myfelf might

A deprivation of dignity; dilmiflion

his degree.

.dyliffe.

Degeneracy ;

2.

bafenefs.

Unlike

his ;^nceftors;

fallen

from the

vinue and merit of hi^ anceAors.

now retain only the image of men.
Smth.
Diminution, with refpeft to ftrength,
efficacy, or value.
A term made ufe of to
4. [In painting.]
exprefs the IcITeningand rendering confuled the appearance of diftant objeiSs
in a landfcape, fo as they may appear
there as they would do to an eye placed
at that diAjnce from them.
Dia.
•To
1.

Thou art likr enou^'i

DEGRA'DE. i/. a. [degrader, Fr.]
To pat one from his degree to deprive
;

him of his office, dignity, or title.
He ftould

i

Yet ihou haft greater cajle to be
Alham'd of them, than ihey of thee j
Degenerate frx>ro t!>eir ancie.tt brood.
Since firft the court allow'd th-m food.

Be quite eiegradfii, like a hedgebom fwain
That doth prcfume to boall of gentle blood.
Shakrfpeare.

To leflen

to diminifh the value of.
Nor Hialt ihou, by dcfceading to alfumc
Man's nature, leiTcn or ^ra(/« thine own. Milton,
All higher knowledge in her prefence falls

2.
Smifl.

Unwoi thy ; bafe ; departing from its
kind or nature.

the jTinciplcs of human natu;e, anJ to be a noxious creattnr, theie is commonly aa injury dune
fome perfon or other.
Locke.

Dege'nerateness. 71./. [from degeneDegeneracy; a being grown wild,

Mi/.'or.,

to a

ftate, with refpeft to qualities :
is

«./.

[from degenerate.]

A deviation from the virtue of one's
ancelVrs.

A falling from a more excellent ftate to
one of lets worth.
3. The thing changed from its primitive
z.

ftate.

In pSants, thrfe tranfplantations are ohvloiis
;
as :hit 01' barlry into nts, if wl eat into darntll

heavens is accounted to anfwer to fusty
miles on earth.
'n minds and manners, twins oppos'd we lee;
In the fame fign, almoft the fame digree. Dryden.

To you who live in chill degree.
As map informs, of fifty-three.
Drydcn.
8. [In arithmecick.]
degree confi.ls of
three figures, viz. of three places, comprel«ending units, tens, and hundreds

A

;

fo three honored

and

g''^''

fixty-five is a Vi?-

Cocker's Arithmttick.
_

The divifton of the lines upon fever^

9.

forts of mathematical inftruments.

[Inmufick.] The intervals of fornidS,
which are ufu.-illy marked by little lines.

Dia.

heavy.

D/V/.

Lat.]
Quality; rank; ftaiion ; place of dig-

[Tn philofophy.] Tlie vehemence or
flacknefs of the hot or cold quality.
'I

he fecond, third, and fourtli degrees of heat are

more cafily introduced than the firft: everyone
is both a preparative aod a (Icp to the next.
Souti.
.Sy Decrees,

adv. Gradu.illy ; by little

and Little.

nity.
it was my fortune, common to that age,
To love a lady fair, of great degree.
The which wjn b"rn ot v.Mc parentage.

Thair bodies are cxercifed in all abilities both
of doing and fuffciing, and tncir minds acquainted
iy degrees with danger.
Sidney.

And fet in highfft fcat of dignity.

of w.iter, gbls, cryftai,

i'f'lfx'-

embrace willingly the ancient received courfe
and convenrency of that difi.-iplinc, which tcachcth
inferior degrees and orders in the church of Cod.
1

Hooker.
'^'

Stirelr

mi th<jle grams which jjeiiciaiiyarife among corn,

of Ifigh

t, cockle, aiacu!, legilops, anJ o Uctdegeneratms.

tht'y arc -

Brntaii't Fuliar £rrturi

cifcumference of a

The fpace of one degree in the

circle.

degraded into filver.

DEGRE'E. »./. [degre,Fr. komgra^uj,
1.

.

fixtieth part of the

11.

from a higher

the parts jre equally heard as loud as one-

[In geometry.] The three hundred and

7.

Dbcrava'tjon. n.f. [ftom degra'vaiiti,
of degravs. Lit.] The aft of making

To reduce

all

another, they will Hun you to that degree, that
you will fancy your ears were torn in piccei. hryd.

10.

or out of kind.

De o E X E R a't ion

If

lower
as, gold

3.

I

1.

Locki,

Meafure ; proportion.

6.

;

Degraded.

So all ihil. tu.n dcgen'mtc, all deprav'd 5
Jjilice and te-r.ierance, truth and faith, forgot
One man except.
MUton.
When a man fo far becomes degenerate as to qui!

rate ]

larger views, and be endowed wvth capacities
able
to fet befoic them, as in one pifturc, all rheir
paft
knowledge at once.

So deplorable is the degradation of our nature,
that whereas before we bore the image of God, we

To fight jgainO me unde^ Picrcy's pay ;
To dog his eels, and curi'Ty at his frowns.
To {how hjw much thou art Xfremerate, Shakefp.

2.

bring,

Which to true wifdom is the firft degree. Deviet,
4. Order of lineage ; defcent of family.
King Latinos, in the third degree.
Had Saturn author of his family.
Dryden-,
5. Orders or claflcs.
The leveial degrees of angels may probably h.nve

3.

ftate.

3.

jlrhutimot on Diet.

from office.
The word degradation is commonly ufed to denote a d^rprivation and removing of a man fiom

Addifjn.

(lavery.

Her hrft degree was by letting forth her beauties,
truly in nature not t) be mifljkcd, but as much
advanced to the eye, as abafed to the judgment, by
»"•
Sidney.

1.

Meannef).

A Hep or preparation to any thing.

3.

When the deglutition is totally abolllhed, the
patient may be nouriflied by clyfters.

Decrada'tion. »./ [degradation, Fr.]

There Is a kind of fluggifli refignation, as well
as poorncfs and dtgintraty of fpirit, in a ilate of

To DEGE'NERATE.

Poefy
Admits of no degrees ; but mud: be ftiU
Sublimely good, or dcfpicably ill.
Rofiommoit.

Decay cfPUty.

!

Bacon,

^

As if there were degrees in infinite,

And Heav'n itfelf had rather want perfeflion
Than punilh to excels.
Dryden,

How

A defertion of that which is good.

S-wi/t.

ture.

In a degenerate manner; bafely ; meanwounding a fpeAacle is it to fee heroes,
like Hercules at the diftaft', thus d^generoufy em-

univerfaj dtg<neracy of manners, and contempt of
religion, which is enciteiy our cale at prefent.

more grofs than fimply the svorlhipping of th< crea-

Deoe'nerously. adv. [ftomdege/urous.]

offers to us for our aiCftance, is fulficicot for us.

3.

female race ;

ceftors.
'Tis t* ic, we have contrafted a great deal of
weafcncfs and iropotency by our wilful dcgentraty
from goodniifsj but thit grace, which th? gofpel

From this contagious taint of forrow free ? Frier,
The comparative fhte and condiuoB
in which a thing is.
The book of Wifdom noteth degrees of idolatry,
making that of worfhipping petty and vile idols

from

There rages, and, to m ike its blow fecure,
Pub fiatt'ry on, until the aim be fure.
Drydm.

Lat.]
1. A departure from the virtue of our an2.

K. Charie%.

rellrains tliun

many bafe and degeneroui piaiiicei.
iioutb.
Degemrsiis palhon, aj< ; for man too bale.

deJieT,

Dece'neracv. n. f. [from dtgcneratio,

'

1

'—V degree are vanity, and men
to be taid in the balance,
'I :

,

_

jhtet ihu;i vaniiy.
i'Jalm Ixij. 9.

Doth not

this cthcrisl

medium, in pa.Tmg^t

and other compnfl «nd
denfe bodies, into empty fpaces, grow denfer and
ict^cr
dcfreeil'
t<lezvttn.

h

Eaultmg in triumph now fwcll the btild notes;
In broken air, trembling, the wild mufick ftoauj
Till, hy degree! remote and fnuU,
'1

he ltrain>i decay.

And melt away.
In a dying, dying (all.

Pope.

Afcrlea

A nerfon wha Is add!£lc4 to phy or gamiag.
though he took but

little

[In medicine.] Going to ftool.
The liver flisuld continual^ feparate the choler

3.

delight in it at lirft, hy

itfren contrails a llrong inclination towards it.
SpiHattr, No. 447.
Degusta'tion. It./, [degujiatii, Latin.]

A talHng.

from the blood, and empty it into the intcdines ;
where there is good ufe for it, not only Co provoke
dejcB'ion,

to advife to the contrary.
One feverely d/htittd all his followers fiom
proftituting mathematical principles unto common

[from

ciples thereunto.

The autlior of this eptlllc, and the rell of tlic
apoftlcs, do every

where vchemcnily and carnuTiy

dehort from unbelief: did they never read thefe
JVard on Jnjidclity.
debcrtathm *

A taking of a folemn oath.
Deifica'tiON.

Belonging to diiTuafion.

Latin.]

[from deus ar.d eade,
Latin.] The murder of God; the aft
of killing God. It is only ufcdin fpcaking of the death of our blefTed Saviour.
«. /.

Explaining'hrtw Perfcdlion fufter'd pain.

Almighty languifhM, 3nd Eternal died j

How by her patient viclor Death was flain,
And earth profan'd, yet blcfs'd, with dikidt

To DEJE'CT. v. a. [dejicio, Latin.]
To caft down to afflifl to grieve
I
;

;

.

crulh.
Well, I am yonr theme ; you have the dart of
roe; \imde^eHtd\ ignorance itfelf is a plummet
Sbiileff>eure.
o*er me ; ufe me as you will.
The lowed, moft dejeSed thing of fortune,
fear!
cfperance
lives
not
in
ftill
in
Sink.
Stands
;
Nor think to die deject my lofty mind j
All that I dread is leaving you behind
Pcfe.
!

To change

the

form with grief;

to

make to look fad.

To praife cxceffively

;

Prior.

I'o

Venus ?

Latin.]

D e I'c N N G
I

.

«./. [from deign.]

A vouch-

To Dei'ntegr ate.

No man in that pallion doth look ftrongly, but

Dei'parous. art)'. [(/W/ara^r, Latin.] That
brings forth a god ; the epithet applied

cars, and the parts by them.

to the blefled Virgin.

;

Of farrow, and d^tflicn, and defpair.
Our frailty can fuftain, thy tidings bring. Millm.
Deferred and aftonilhed, he finks into utter dc-

vealed religion,
Dcifm, or the principles of natural worlhip, are
only the faint remnants or dying flames of revealed
religion in the pofterity of Noah.
Drydei.

Did,

[de/acrjmatio,

In the fecond epidle of St. Peter, certain drijii,

Rt>gers.

as they feem to have been, laughed at the prophecy

of the day of judgment.

Burnet.

Dki'stical. adj. [from </«}?.] Belonging
to the herefy of the deifts.

Wcaknefs does not fall only to the (hare of
chrldian writers, but to feme who hive taken the

to inform againft.

;

Dela'tion. ti. /.

A carriage

;

[delatic, ha.ua.]

conveyance.

In delation of founds, the inclofure of them
them, and caufeth them to be heard
Bacon.
further.
It is certain, that the dclatitn of light is in an
Baecn,
indant.
There is a plain delation of the found from the
teeth to the indrument of hearing.
Bacon,
preferveih

An accufation

2.

Dela'tor,

;

n. f.

an impeachment.
[delator,

Latin,]

An

accufcr ; an informer.

What were thefe harpies but flatterers, delators,
.S'*; dyii 'J'ra.tjeh,
and inexpleably covetous ?
Men have proved their own delation, and difco
vered their own moft important fecrets.
•

De'ist. «./ [aV//??, French.] A man who
follows no particular religion, but only
acknowledges the exiftence of God,
without any other article of faith.

jeUwn i and even hope itfelf is fwallowetl up in deinability.
The effedla of an alkalefcent (late, in any great
degree, are thiril and a dejtSien of appetite, which
putril thJagt occalioB more than any other.
Arbutbttft on AHmenti.

n. /.

Baton,

Dia.

Deje'ctedness. ». / [from dejtSed.'] DE'ISM. »./. [deifme, French.] The opinion of thofe that only acknowledge one
The ftateof being caft down a lownefs
God, without the reception of any reDiil.
of fpirits,

Lownefs of fpirits ; melancholy ; deprelHon of mind.
What befides

A tearing in pieces.

To accufe

2.

Dia.

dejed'd/y : and that rcpulfion from the eyes diverteth the fpirits, and gives heat more to the

deje3io, Latin.]

delatero,

Try exattly the time wherein found is delated.

-v. ei,

to fpoil ; to diminifli.

De]e'ction.»./. [dejeHion, French, from

[from

To carry; to convey.

1.

1

In a

Bacon.

n. /.

Did,
womb, and the like.
To DEL A'TE. a. a. [from delatus, Latin.]

fafing ; a thinking worthy.

dejecled manner ; fadly ; heavily.

Riikigb.

Delacer a'tion.

A

Deje'ctedlv. ad'v. [from dejeSl.'\

Wcakncfs;

untu Laurentia and Flora, which was given to

extol and diify the pope, as

[from //.f and
integro, Lat.] To take from the whole ;

a.

Cot my lord chamberlain bis liberty. Shakefpeare,
By wiiat reafon could the fame deity be denied

Latin.] A falling down of the humours ;
the waterilhnefs of the eyes, or a weepand midrefs feem temperate and paflTable. Bacon.
Did.
ing much.
To DEIGN, "v. n. [from daigner, Fr. of Del act a't I
ON. n./. [deladatio,!,^^.]
dignor, Latin.] To vouchfafe ; to think
Di^f.
weaning from the breaft.
worthy.
Dela'psed. adj. [from delap/us, Latin.]
Deign to defcend now lower, and relate
[With phyficians.] Bearing or falling
What may no lefs perhaps avail n5 known. Milton.
down. It is ufed in fpeaking of the
O dei^n to vifit our forfakcn feats.

He did again

Shak.

fpair.

—Who humbly complainit^g to her drity.

made all that he bad faid in praiie of his mader

That fuck'd tlie honey of his mufick vows.

1 .

Heard you not what an humble fuppliant
Lord Hadin^s was to her for his delivery ?

Delacryma'tion.

Caft

am of ladies moft dejf^ and wretched.

Shakef/eare,

They on their former journey forward p^f^,
With pains far palling that long wandering U reek.
Spenjer,
That for his love retuf-rd deity.

to extol one as

if he were a god.

Till hedid)urs'd ten thoufund dollars. Sbakeffiare.

;

1

it

divine qualities.

Sotitb.

Dryder.

Deje'ct. adj. [deJe<Sui, Latin.]
down ; afflifted low-fpirited.

when

facriijce

The fuppofed divinity of a heathen god

3.

vinities.
Daphnis, the fields delight, the fliepherds love,
Dryden.
Renown'd on earth, and dfif.cd above.
The feais of Julius Ciclar, which we know »o
Venus
over
them,
be aniique, have the dar of
though they were all graven after his death, as a
Dryden.
note that he was diifal,
Perfuaiic the covetous man not to dtify his
money, and the proud man not to adore himlelf.

to allow.
Now Sweno, Norway's king, craves compofition;
Nor would we deign him burial of his men.

But gloomy were his eyes, dejcCIcd was his face.

how poorly buift

him.

To Deign, v. a.

With great Marccllus keeping equal pace.

Give the gods a thankful

;

to transfer into the number of the di-

The mod'y fountains, and the green retreats. Pofe.
To grant ; to permit

Eneas here beheld, of form divint,

A godlike youth in glittering armour fliine.

temple,

Sidnty*

To make a god of; to adore as god

2.

a

fuft'er

pleafeth their deiiiei to take the wife of a man from

Is dcijied before thy death.
;

Will you

f.ever, but yet a temple of your </«{y, to be raz-ed ?

French ; from

Half of thee

to deprefs ; to fink ; to difcourage ; to

z.

[differ,

Prior,

!

Milton.
Of deity, or cmf\re.
A fabulous god ; a term applied to
the heathen gods and goddeflies.

dei/s zr\A Jio, Lati.i.]

1.

fuader ; an adviier to the contrary.

z.

Of a godlike form.

To DE'IFY. 'V. a.

Deho'rier. «./. [from dehert.] A dift)E'ICIDE.

Fr.]

The aftof deifying, or making a god.
De'iform. adj. [from deus ani forma,

Deho'rtatorv. adj. [from dehortof,L^tin.]

Diii.

[deijicatian,

n.'f.

Ilooier,

With what arms
We mean to hold what ancient))' we claim

Dejera'tion. n./. [from dejero, Latin.]

Latin.] DifluaAon ; acounfelling to the
contrary ; advice agai.nft fometbing.

nature and effence of

the

dtjfdurcs, leannefs, weaknefs, and third.

fymptoms of which aie excefs of animal

A'iuthnot on ^"imffirs.

dehtrtor,

Divinity;

God.

fecretions; as of perfpiration, fwcat, urine, fnjuid

ty, the

ffilkim.

IVarJ.

». /.

Latin.]
I.

A difeafe oppofite to fpinitude is teo great fluidi-

The apollles vehemently dibert u( from unbelief.

Dehorta'tion.

pen in hand to fnpport thtJeiflUa! or jBtlchridian
H^uttu
ichcrae of our days.
De'ity. n.j'. [diiie, French, from deitas,

Some things he doth as God, becaufe his dtity
alone is the fpring from which they flow j fom«
things as man, becaufe they iflue fiom his mere
human nature f fome things jointly as both God
and man, becaufe both natures concur as prin-

;

apprchenfion or pradice.

but alfo to attenuate the chyle.

Ray on tbe Creation.
DEje'cTtTRE. «./ [horn deji^.] I'he excrement.

DiG.

To DEHO'RT. V. a. [Mortor, Latin.]

To diffuade

DEL

DEI

D E J

Go'jcrnmcnt of tbe Tongue.

No fooncr was that fmall colony, wherewith the
depopulated earth was to be replanted, come forth
of the ark, but we meet with Cham, a delator to
his own father, inviting his brethren to that execrable fpe£lacle of their parent's nakednefs.

Government of tbe Tonrue,

To DELA'y,i;, ii, [from j/Jfly^r, French.]
I .

To defer

;

to put off.

And when the people faw that Mofes delayed to
come down out of the mount, the people gathered
themfclvcs together unco Aaran,

£xtd, xxxii. t.
Cyruj

DEL
Cyrus he found, on him his force eflayM
j
tor Hci5ior was to the tenth year Jelay'ii. Dtydrn.

4.

DEL

To appoint judges to hear and deter-

When love once pleads admifllon to our hearts.

mine a particular caufe.

t. Tobindfer; lo fru Urate ; to'keepYuf-

De'lecate, n.f.

3. To detain, flop, or retard the courfe of.

Thydis, whofc artful ftrains have oft dclay'd

The huddling brook to hear his madrigal. Milion.

[delegatus,

She flics the town, and mixing with the throng
of madding matrons, bears the bride along :
Wand'ring through woods and wilds, and devious
ways.
And with thefe arts the Trojan match delays.

Ev'ry fuch perfon is her delegate,
T' accomplilh that which Ihould have been her
<««•
D:mne.

Dryden,

They muft be fevere exaaors of accounts from

Be mindful, goddefs, of thy promife made
Muft fad Ulyflis ever be delay d f
Prfe,

their delegatei and minifters of juftice.
Taylor.
Let the young Auftrian then her terrours bear,

.

.

afb'on.
There feem to be certain bounds to the quickcefs and (lownefs of the fuCteiTion of thofe ideas
one to another in our minds, beyond which they
can neither dday nor haften.
Licti.

J

I

Great as he is, her delegate in war.
Eleft by Jove, his delegate of fway.

Vricr.

With joyous pride the fummons I'd obey.

Pt^e.

impartially.

The keeper charmM, the chief without delay
Dryden.

;

and never hazards himfclf fo far as to fall, hut
plods on deliieraiely ; and, as a grave man ought,
is

1 .

A fending away.

A putting in conuniffion.

3.

The aflignment of a debt to another.

defers ; a putter oiF.

We ourj for change detcaaUe, mt reed.

nefs ; caution.
They would not ftay the fairproduftion of afts,
in tlic order, gravity, and deliberatenefs befitting*
parliament.

DE

eafily con-

The apple's outward form,

D£I.E'CTABLENESS.«./[from*^A2^/^.]
Delightfulnefs ; pleafantnefs.

Dele'ctabiv. adv. Delightfully; plea-

quality, are yet dcftiudtlve by figure,
or fome occ.ifional aflivity.
5„,^,,_

[deleaatio,

Pleafure; delight.
Out break the tears for joy and deldtaihn.
Sir T. Mcore.

{delego, Latin.]

To fend an ay.
2. To fend upon an embaffy.
3. To entrull; to commit to another's
1.

power and jurifdiaion.
as princes, pa-

rent^ fp.ritual guide,; fo he
l...-h alio dtlezaud
and committed p„t of hi, care
and providence
'

_,

'""^
"r*'"^'' monarch, fo we h/v'e"
the relation of tellow.fubje«,
to him : and
can pretend no f.«her jurifdidion
over each
other, than what he has delegated
to u-..

all

tin.]

Dem'berative. »./ [from the adjective.] The difcourfe in vvJiich a queftiou
is

Voi. 1,

Prnr.

deliberated.

BacCTj.

Ad of rafing or blotting out.
2. A deftrudion.
1 .

Indeed, if there be a total dclitkti of every
perfon
of the oppofing party or country, then the
viiftory
i»
complete, becaule none remains to call it

On hofpitablc thoughts intent.
What choice to choofe for delitacy beft.
2. Nicety in the choice of food.
Thefc delicacies,
I

mean of tafte, fight, fmell, herbs, fruits, and

„^,^

Delf. J(,. / [from btflpan, Saxon, to
Delfe. j
dig.]

A mine

Milton,

Any thing highly pleafing to the fenfes.

3.

in

quell ion.

Latin.]
Daintinefs ; pleafantnefs to the tafte.

delicire,
1.

flow'rs.

Walks, and the melody of birds.
Milton,
4. Softnefs ; elegant or feminine beauty.

A man of goodly prclencc, in whom ftrong

a quarry ; a pit dug.
;
Yet could nnt luth mines, withoui great
pains
and dutgcs, if at all, be wrought the</.v/j
would

making took not away delicacy, nor beauty ficice-

:

be fo flown with waters, that « >

gins or machines
could luthte to by and keep them dry.

of his colouring, and in his cabinet pieces.

tiay t"i the Crci:tkit.

2. i-.arthen ware ; counterfeit
made at Delft.

Thus barter hoiidur for a piece at delf <

Deliba'tion. n.f

Dryd.
You may fee into the fpirit of them all, and
form your pen from thofe general notions and delicacy of thoughts and happy words.
Felton,

China ware

No, not for China's wide domain iticlt.

Smart.

\dcUbatio.t.?An\.^

An effay a talle.
To DELI'BERATE. 'v.v. [deltbero, Lat.]
To tliink, in order to choice to hefitate.
A coiif.iou wife, reflecting caulc,

rsicety; minute accuracy.
Van Dyck hui even exjcllcd him in the delicacy

5.

6. Ncatnefs ; elegance of drefs.

Politenefs

7.

of manners :

contrary

to

gro/nej's.

;

That can drlii.r^ie means clcil, and find
Their dye canne{li«n with the end defign'd.
Bkektmre.

Indulgence ; gentle treatment.

8.

Perfun^ b'lrn of families noble and rich, derive
a wcaknefs

of conftitution from the e.ili: ;.nd
luxury of their anceftors, and tlie delicacy of tiicir

Which freely inovrs and afts by reafon's laws

Commandiag her, with delegated pow'rs,'

Pertaining to deliberation ; apt

to confidcr.

,

To be..ut,fyihc world, »ntf bleu the aigbf?

Furdamentah.

Deli'berative. adj. [delibera/ivus, La-

;

And All her willing lamp with l,.juij light

never be guilty

DE'LICACy. ». f [delicatefjre, French, of

To both the under worlds as he.
Iludihrai.
Dele'tion. n.f. [deletio, Latin.]

.

,^^^^?''^ "

ftiould

it

what is evil ; and
of good, what is greater } and of evil, what is lefs.

Though (Jor'd with dJetery med'cinei.
Which whofoever took is dead Cncc,

_
in feveral

thought ia

In diliberatives, the point is,

E'er fent fo vaft a colony

1.

.

;

Hatr.mond'' s

Deftruftive; deadly; poifonous.
Nor doctor cpidemick,

Lat.l

/ [deliberatlo, Lat ]

w.

good by free deliberation,

Deletery. adj. [fromde/eteriuj, Latin.]

fantly.

As God hath imprinted hfs authority

Many things, neither deletericus by fubftance or

Hate.

_,

Latin.]

of a poifonous

.

of any thing that was done.

quality.

^

ceptible by us, becaufc apparent in
his works ; as
bis goodnefs, beneficence, wifdom,
and power.

Deltaaile, the witicfi fwain beguijej
Till that with writhen mouth, and
fpattcrlng noife.
He taftes the bitter morlel.
lii/,/,.

[delelerius,

deftruftive ;

Kjrg Charlc'i'.

B E R a't I o N

order to choice.
If mankind had no power to avoid ill or choofe

DELE'TE. -v. a. [from deltt, Latin.]
To blot out.
Di^^
Deadly;

I, I

The ad of deliberating

Z>/<3.

DELETt'aious. adj.

;

AfiAon.
He brought thee into this delicious grove.
This garden planted with the trees of God
;
Deleliable both to behold and t.iftc !
MUt-M.
Sonie of his attributes, and the
manifcftations
thereof, are not only highly dcUaabte
to the intelleaivc faculty, but are fuitably and

Drydcr..

«. / [from delihCircumfpedion ; warinefs ; cool-

rate.}

[deUgatio, Latin.]

2.

.

Deli'berateness.

Ayliffe's Parergon.

Deleca'tion. n.f.

fure to put his llaff before him.

Slowly ; gradually.

2.

all

DELE'CTABLE. adj. [eUUaabilh, Lat.l ^
^
To

unt'i them.

Ke judges to a l..\ir of li:rle indecencies; knows
any man what is not to be written

[delenificus.hwtl]
Having virtue to afluage or eafe pain.

Pleafing; delightful.
Ev'ning now approach;
For we have alfo our ev'nina, and our morn

Bacon.

better than

One that D£le>(i'fical. adj.

Dela'yer. «./ [from at/a).]

men,

nearncfs or diftancc.

Tayicr.

decided.

parts upoi, feveral eii^tes
of

are more
that is, give mere fpacc between the
voice and the echo, which is cauiid by the local

Princes in judgm?nt, and t'neir delegate ]aif(%,
muil judge the caulcs of all pcrfons uprightly and

Shahtjfure'i Rkbard III.
The conduQ of our lives, and the management
of our great concerns, will not bear delay.
Loeki.

To DE'LEGATE. -v. a.

Echoes are fome more fudjcn, and chop again
as foon as the voice is delivfred
others
j

deliberate,

;

Is leaden fervitor to dull delay
;
Jitlay leads impotent and fnail-pac'd beggary.

Delecta'tion. ». /.

them defirous of (low and ddiheraie death, againit
the ilream of their fcnfual inclination.
Hlcier.

;

caufes of appeal, by way of devolution from either of the archbilhops, are

a. Stay ; Hop.

Cmohr.us.

ibakcSf,.

Slow ; tedious ; not'fudden gradual.
Commonly it is lor virtuous confiJerations, that
wifdom fo far prevaileth with men as to make
;

De LECATEs[ Coui-t of], A court wherein

have learn'd that fearful commenting

Pafs'd on, and took th' irremeable way.

Not raih like his accuferj.
2.

other.

procraftination j lingering

inadivity.

difcrcet.

Moit Grave-beily was deliberate.

BE'tEGATE. adj. [delegatus, Lztin.] De- Deli'berately. c^ii. [from deliberate.}
1. Circumfpedly
puted
advifedly ; warily.
fent to ad for, or reprefent, an-

Dela'v. h./. [from the verb.]

A deferring

Clrcumfped; wary; advifed';

1.

If after her

to ceafe from

Addifin.

Deli'berate. adj. [deliberatus, Latin.]

Any fliall live, which dare true good prefer,

!

To Dela'v. v. k. To flop;

In fpite of all the virtue we can boaft.
Tile woman that deliberates is loft.

Latin.] A
deputy ; a commiffioner ; a vicar ; any
one tliat is fent to ad for, or reprefent,
another.

pended.

i.

DEL

own cducatinn.
9.

I'cmfli.

Tendernefs; fcrupuloufnefs.
Any zealous tur promoting the intei'ft of liif
country,

muft

conquer

3

"

a!!

tlct tendemcfs and
delicacy,

«hUh mun sake hi» aCrs4 t4 ^a»|

iditstj,

^kca iO <A.

the fiir'ft and matt dAcieut ftiX of the eanh, inVi

fftedvmtd.

i>d»J'

1 tt.y ejre.

DtVt'ctOVtt.Y.

!•""

«-"-.

Ptfe.

Hthi I,::

-^/"icui.]

I

;.

Sweetly ; pleafar.tly ;
H'/w moeh flte badi (Ic*./,

,.

'

..

•"^

'[:-

I'v/.

,-/'>

ItloatbCNDcin i'-.

^. Son ; eficfflinatc ; unabb to bear bard-

Pupf.
Witaeft lliu armjr, ef fadi mat* aa4 cba>t<>
Utatf^tri.
Lc4 bjr a tUHean tn4 ttiuUt priace.
Tca4cr aa4 MUalt pcribni mait seedt be oft
lliejr
banc
<<>
thmp
frtxtbk
oMay
to
tlxtri,
ofrf,
«U<k tatf* roMI aatate* ban fittk Utit of.

Where dieir roofl fcxcd m4 faHuit, I have ebShak^ftart.

I. Beautifully ; with {c^t elegance.
Tbat trbkli w;U 4i*ia(iiift bit Ajrlc from atl
•dxr foett, it (ht eicfaocc of ld« «e>4«, anJ the
ni t— fadfc of hit *cric « time it oothing (o
^Umtiy \mn»t ia all tW Kb wiw n
r . Dryd.
LaJtet Kkc mntfMtU tutif* Aoir,

m

U pHg

Tit to their ekaiifet half (heir chirmt we owe;
itKb hawy (jpou lb* nice »Iinir<:r l,t]ce,
Ptft.

z. Finely ; not contklj.
3. Daintily.
£<t n'yt deUtttI), or tiktiji (hat i«, be not
tro«M(ien* to tkyfelf ar Mfccr*
ttw cboiee '/f
diy ncstt, or dw 4(i<ca*f of (by iiwcct. 'A>//ir.

•

ceive.

ftate

_

Tajl/yr,

n. /,

[from

ilelicatt.\

of being delicate; tender-

neft ; ibftneft ; effeminacy.

The dcfieaic wamaa unoiM jron «wi>l4 im( a4tcnture to fiet (b*
of Ut/uoi vftM Ibc groand,
for dtlitaumji and icndcrod*.
/>«ifc «*«iii. 56.

M*

^

DEn'oHTiOMELr. «i/f. [from delight,
Pleaiantly ; in a oelightfal man-

/tme.']

ner.

DeLrcHTSOMCKEti.

».

To DELI'NEATE. t/. «. [ddmeo, Latin.]
1. To make the firft draught of a thing ;

Deli'cht. m f.

H^i^mun't huryrj.

diUaoT, Latin.]
1. Joy; content;

\fUlUt, i-rench,

ing, comawne

hath

-Ite kinj;

with Admijti. . licad.

To defcribe

Brvuin,

to iet forth in a lively

;

'

It followelh, tn

'

pUnted hi> d'..,,
I have not iierc tim't
r'ei of Cod't heavenly

firft

We'll charm tti« air Xn give a (bund,
Shaluff.
While you yninnn jt^T aotick roood.
Titut Vtfpafian wat not more the dititbr of
or.ly
made
Htm
univerfil
empire
ki.-:!!
:
riie
hkinan
more kro^vn, and more powerful, but cutjld not
Dtjiin.
make him more beloved.
and hit dtliiki \
!
1 r tr*, hit hope,
*
SK^
Drjd,
-ht, and ever in hit fight.
•/.

M

f. «. [de/e^or, Latin.]
to content ; to latiify ; to

r.

Tlie princet <fe/(|;t/(iijj til
firmikg their ICn^^wtedge, t

3.

manner.

And ftew the IkA of oar dttiibtt 1

;

To

£iinr

k^re thee.

1.13 ic. v.r.u

tr.i. ^.i

That which g^ve* delight.
Coaic, After*, cbear w< ap Mt fprigtiW,

'

to delign ; to flcetch.
paint; to reprefcnt a true likencla

The li- -(!•! piftoria i» v«ry Utgti a^itb the
miy Atluuaii 'dd Nellor like
'iih Hclen'i face, and Time
Adoi.

fatisfaftion.

I igwi, aviii. ax.

To\i.

2.

in a picture.

S«u! c<n)inaii
with Mfi'.l f-C!'
ditifht in thee,

from

-n-

-

'

'

difcipline differed from tlieljtKH'.v.c-, i.jj viraf.
Sid^ij^
Ing entert»inm«t<».

Dtlitif tbyCrlf alio in tJie Lord, and be Ihall
f/. xtzvii. 4.
ifaw the dcAm of thin* heart,
fom irStAt, v/ti«itof ffiff.'- ^-r bf«», diUiiiii
otheri beetle*,
with flowert, a
••
^ori''
lir/jfi/*/ with '.
•'
'',
Aehejtd, het'.'-k, J'

^

;,

could ( tell yott, if I had,
that plaec and portion it.

'*;.a:

raritiet ; that which

ties ;

u chtdce and

Tn Deli'cmt,

The flwpbcrd't bomeljr cardi.
Hit coU thin Wriok out of hii Icatiier kottkf
All which fecarc and rweetty be enjojri.
Are far fae^otvd a princc't dtluaiit.
Sbatrfftart.

7 h--/ rheW^appetJtit not only fetd
i,f leavei and mardiy w«d,

I

!'

o Ma.i. .,.,,^,.1 or
It it followed by in.

1/.

».

Ifaie.

Jn the orthograjhicjl fth';m-i, th»re (houl'ibc
t true d*tiiietjt';';nf 4;t4 chejufl dirticnfioni.

Deli'k IMEKT. ir.f. [delinimentum, Laf,]
Z)///.
A rr-'— -^-T, or afluaging.
CY. «.7 [Jtlinquenlia,
failure in duty ; a
Latin. J A fault;

DELI

ft

roifdecd.
They nevwponim'thegteateft a'

m«n thai fcttetli the Uni, thai

dttiibinh gTMfiy in hit commandmenli.

!.ckl? rcip the rankeft laod. Drjier,.

And can regale bimielf witii toad and cheeTc.
Kingi Cwirrjf.

Di'ncn. »./• P'- [</'/'<'>. Latin.] Pleafare".,

An

'r*"'"

"'

merely French,

'•.

Can

ouc hit idle mind

.

In :.

:.

'.'-

I.

DELi'<iHTi'i'i.. aJj, [from dilight and
y»//.] Plealant ; charming ; full of deHdtt.

He wit given to fptrinf in (o Immetfwrttik fort,
'

Jul, bat aimoft from

'

'

joyi,

\hi'"'J-

wej| oni caft behind,
and Tain plcafing toyi.

-.'.i.-e*

Thy year; i»ttrrT:ir<; !'ke ^"r a^r if min,
fex^uire.

'Ihi

An.

No fpring nor fumtrnr,
Smilo with gay frvitt or »

1,

„

A dtlin^oent oojjh'
jurifdiOion wlierc the ^ ..

•

j

'

,'

..'

or

i, '-ii:\,iu,"-rA

j

by him.

Ajliffu

DELi'»s<iyEi«r.
Latin.]

rjalm lt"t.

that he did not only

'-.

'

"

rable di/iifurrcy of the tumoitt, ar.

'1

pleafure in.
Doth my k»d, tb* king, <<r/igi'< in iliit thing ?
% ham. xaiv.
BiclTcd it tit*

wi:ri a^:-incnce all delieatti he feet.

/.

;

Dr/fg^W, fwiU'dthelargel'

dainty.

Vi

:

the \...y^,\tt.i •/(

DtLiKEA'TiOK. »./ [deliaeattc, Lido.]
The firft draught of a thing.

,

Di'licatei, «r./. [Irom di/ua/e.} Nice,

/ J from </^-

binding op in chirurgery.
The third iatention it dtttiat'nn, or rctaininj

afford pjeafore.

y

•'

light/omt.'] Pleafantnef* ; delightfuineft.

[</r//f<»//e, Latin.]

DEtiOA'Tiow.w./;

a.

'\

j"'— •

A

To pleafe

De'LiCATtKi**.

The

'!airjf..

:c;iiri;(>
LctiMaunjiidttafluiarc.'
and ef&cacy of tlic iacraincnt iti .., .; ..,, ici/fib.^
fdiA, bjr lb* (»* MAdduiwJ'iJh «>>'-•> >«: f™*lirort ftrceirci, and it other lirnet doct n'lt per-

Dt'LiCATEi,y. fl/i/. [ham dtlUaii.^

nfelvct being fo

.

Aad io ibc tafl* coti/ouoJi I'

the paru f< joined t/>j(«ther.

S. Pore; clear.

delight.

ii Skatt aad inbJr
compaft of hit fpe^
jmu ivtiaiVH niatU, and li> grat e rue Uw ttnnge.
neft.
Sftn^r,
'
.'Vd every ot»e with the fime
C'.rr.'^r
/<g hunger and tiiirfi fur <i<//|;/>rj:-mt Vi,..
Ciej/t

Dsti'cioutxESt. /t. /. [from dthaouj.]
p'^^f'^

'

[from

adj.

i..

delightful.

knit';

•u\v>>.

Delight ;

.•>

t

Pleafant;

dekijojlf, Ui nsuch tunner.t and (in

not eiof>,or coarfe.

4. Choicely,
5. Poltuly.
6. Effeminately.

'nth,f,l«f,,
'HiTCKHl.

Tt))t \rAvA ftcwt (h* ac*ll*<Ky of tie o^i*a,
'netuktimtyti»diliitt/'iili>tf$
but d

ittma, tai (bar texture it cxtitmc!;

Fine \ri iefea, mmI ditittt^ wttk.

Milan,

fatufaAion.

;

\.

ri let lae Ue,

'

SfiU oa that bStiU drifak dtlU:.

^

6rv'4
The aif it itlUtU.

.

:

otKtff.

D~.. .J , -cfiroo* of Cartons meatt.
3. Choice; feled ; excellent.
Pleaiing to the renfci.
$ Floe; not coarfe; confifiing of fmall
pans.
At r.'.ixU U0«4 ftlicAi tbraogb ill* !•»(« u
ii.-',i:!. .1! tbc fco^; itK circaUcion it^akkn,

;

I

n./. [from Jehgit.]

Plca(ure ;

In hit Itft hoar* bit aff wit difpiay ;
Like the rich frait b* fop. dtJuhtt in iccar.

c) W4ane a* •xiicr iuHoas aAioni
there arc bo dcyitc* tmi ftttiU

Of L<(Ji:« manner*

'

htut other U»e aoift binra »»d vojiet(mt.

2.

6.

-'it 4&d makipiy ;

.

DtLl',:.

o«

The cUKfiaf of « iJUtu Wfecc J aofC et£11

'•

'

PetifJ-''
ti rti

It it bifhly ptobaUc, tbtt uy^ Adup't difobe»f Par»lifr,
i'ltw'. Alrr.ijbtjr Cod ekaied him

agreeable fiavour.

'

O voice' '«ce }>eard

aibrdt delight ; agreeable ; ckaroiing ;
grateful to the fenie or mind.

jUdiftm.

10. Weakne{( of conSibiiion.
11. Snnllncf* ; tenaitjf.
Dz'licatc. adf. [dehait, French.]
1. Nice; pleaifing to the tz&e ;
of an

avjr didk,
ur,

DEL

DEL

DEL

».

[from

/.

dtliajutnti

An offender one that hat com;

mittca a crime or fault.
Such an envioui fttte.

That fvnrr v/ill jrctifr !h' m'fi'flrjte
Th»TJ.'

'»«
..

uy wjr, 'n

W.»,

Mjicr aifAihrti
but byjuftkc and fcnUncc* tK dthnqutntt ami crU
>iii

i'iirt»:"i

u'li

Ht \t%'\f wj-or,

*r,v

,

b^en ftnt f'jr

..
.,

Sprnjtr,

Titt.i' ciov t. oM. {dtlicitux, French, from
dtlUai.t, Laun.j Sweet ; delicate; Uiat

6
><*7

DE(.i'cMTpuLi.r.«i//i/.Flcafantlyicbarjningly ; with delight.

r* DE' LIQUATE. 1/. ». [deliquto, Lat.J
To melt i to be diflblvea.
It

Tully »ai long ere he could be di/kerfd of a
fciv verfes, and thufe poor one: ton.
Pcaclam.

To fpeak

7.

Cuilincrlh.

dtlijualtd fait of tartar.

A melting; a didblving.
DELI'^IUM. >:./. [Latin. A chymical
term.] A diliillation by difTolving any

To exert in motion.

8.

not perforin any afllon on
horfe or foot more ftrongly, or delivir that ftrength

more nimbly.
-v.

a,

To put into another's hands; to leave

1.

Dia.
\deliratto, Latin.]

to the difcretion of another.

\dtlirius, Lat.] Lightraving ; doting.
Thepeu^'ic about him faid he had been forforoc
hours tUlir'utui ( but when I faw hint lie bad hit
;

her.

td vtrtr to pofterity in a fairer chara^er tiian 1 have
given.
Dfydm.

He that fpared not Ills own fon, hut dflivtrttl
him ufi for ui all, hnw (hall he iioi, with him alio,

7o DELI'VER. V. a.

To fet free

I .

To favc

t.

Piiir.

I.

Dtln'ir ait, t) my Cod, out of the hand of the
wicked, out of the band of the uniighiecui and
cniel nun.

dfx'erlty

wit, lu

i

;'-

..u/i.

1:^ i.:t

I'l

JtlnimJ mt.
Sbaki]i ju.
3. To furrender ; to put into one's hands ;
to refign ; to give up
to yield.
In any cafe thou Ihill </f/h'«r him the pledge
gain wlirn die fun goeih down. I>iiir. iiiv, la.
And David faid la kim, canll thou bring me
down to (hit company ? And be faid, fwear unto
me by CoJ, that thou wilt neitber bill mo, nur
;

r

Jel'n

will
I

•

'

;

-

i

,,
,

,

To give

4.

;

to offer;

m.i'irtr,

ti\.'-'.,

<:

WIS no w'.r
eiiTiccouU be coi
a petition, Wiuld in-,:
It

ul

;,,,

t\.

,].

f,ith

•

.1

fich
i-i,;.i'! aj luwi an an,r

i,

fwer.
5

/.

1:.

•(.(,,)

b«tl".

Pryd,n.

To caft away

s

to throw oft'.

Charm'd with tlut virtuous Draught, U>'«»aUed mind
All f'-nf (A vor dfl'ittirrvi *.hr'»\r\^.
T'tt.

...-

blind, tofct at liberty (hofc thai

Luke, iv. iS.

other

:

now commonly called deifvtry.

The aft of bringing children.
Ne'er m ther

3.

Rrjoic'd dil'ivtrami more.
Shjktfftarr.
People have a fuocrllitious belief, that in the
labuur of women it liclpeth to the cafy Jt/'n/trnnte.

Bafon

The aft of fpeak ing

4.

nunciiitioii ;
\i fciioully

Thou (halt dttrvtr (Viaraoii'ir-ip info h'.i liund,

I

utterance ; pro-

;

To dilburdcii a woman of a child.
On
She U fometh.

!'

•

ilf.Jt«,

ihalitfi./ari.

I'he ear] was the taller, and much the ftronger
but the dike had the neater limbs, and freer Jflivfy.
H^tllui.

6.

Childbirth.
Like as a woman wi;h child, that drawcth near
the time of her Jilivcry, is in pain, and crieth out*
IJ.iial',

In this my light dtlwrtanti, I have fpoke
With one that in her fcx, her years prufenion,

Wiluom and ccndancy, hath am la'd me more
Th^n 1 dare blame my wraknefs.
S/jilkiJpfil'r'l Air I V)rll tbai tndi ivtil.
DlLl'vEltBR. «./. [from deliver.]

A faver

I .

a refcuer ; a preferver ; a re-

j

leafer.
It dnth notably frt forth the coitfent of all na
•ior- fid !>•,';, In 'he ipprobacion of tlK cxtlrpjiI

'it^,

hole in the ground ; any cavity in the
earth, wider than a ditch

than a valley.

.

t!.v

:.

.,;

-....,.

monllers, and foreign
bur aa merit^iriuu<.

uni.-r,, ,

other,

ISaun.

Fell lirjdiong into a dell.
I

Spenftr,

know e.K'h lane, and every alley green,

Dingle, or bufhy dtll, of this wild wood.
MilHii,
But, foes to fun-(hine, moll they took delight

In dtUi and dalei, conceal'd from human light*
77r*r//.

Delfi,

the name of

the capital of Dclftland.]
earthen ware.

A line fort of

DiM.ni.

//.

/ [from

A fuppcr worthy of herfrirj
Five noifiingvin five plates il d.lph,

.%vij't,

Dk'ltoidb. adj. [from dilia, the foui.'h
letter of the Greek alniiabct
fo called
;

by reafon of its rcfeinbliiii; thi:i letter. ]
An cpitlict applied to it triangular mulcle arifiiig from the clavicula, and from
the procel's of the fame, whofeaftion it to
raife tlie arm

upward.

Cut Dill more of the di'luid* muftir, ind ciny
the arm backward.
UlnirpU .^ui^tt^,
Di'.i.u'n ABLE. adj. [from ddiidf.]

be deceived ; that

to

on

ii

cifiiy

Liabli-

iinpofcd

rather delndihli'.
Not well uiidetitindiiig offlnifdeiictt.hf it
:

na|
ready to drcejvc liiini.Mf, as ( j f^lfify untO'bini
whofccogitatiun in no ways diludnbh,
fu

V meant thy great Uiitvtnr, who (ball bruife
The ferpent'i bead.

and narrower

Obfolcte.

The while, the fame unhappy ewe,
Whole clouted leg her hurt doth (hew,

.vful,

and tliii, aJthough tbc drl,.-iitr i.txn'i (>om tjie one end of the world unto
r

xxvi. 7*

Dell. »./, [from dal, Dutch.] A pit; a

now commonly ilelivery.

By that feed

,ne d<livirul.

more nimbly, or become the dilivciy inusugrace'Sidnry,
fully, or employ alt more virtuoudy.

may convey mv ilinughtf

-

6.

MuliJcrus could not perform any aftion 'on
horfe or font more Urongly, or deliver tjiat ftreoKtliJ

Wbate'er befalii, your life (hall be my care |

to prefcnt.

a>:<)uainuote, but ddinnrtt. (or the breachri of the
•wyfe1. Kin^t.

fin.

Ufe of the limbs ; aftivity.

One death or one dcliv'ranci we will (liare. I), yd.
z. The aft of delivering a thing to an-

Now iheiefore r't-r.e nr* more money of your

after tlw foimel'

,

r/alm xliv. 4.

imrnts, »h' re.

'

.

to the ca.tiiei, »ni\ rcco\cr-

O Gud, command dJivgranctt fur Jacob*

I..Sam.

fore thou halt tleitvertd U9 rof a fpoil, and unto
captivity.
Ttb. lii. 4.

MS

5.

!!•

f

ing ot 1:,...

and I

mafti-r,

.

arc bound.

of

wiman,

old

.III

F'r.l

of freeing from captivity,
flavery, or any opprelTion ; rffcue.
He
to hc«l the .broken-hearted,
aft

I

the witch oi

r

1

The

to pr^-

P/ti/m liii. 4.

B'l

Ihokrr.

wii charmed with the gracefulnefi of hit

'

to refcye.

;

i

.>

Dei.i'vi; R ANCE. It./, [deli-vrance,

\

;

figure and dcUviry, ai well is with his difcnurfcs.

That would di/ivir up hit greatnefs fo
Into the lund of juOjcc.
Sbairffrari.

to rcleafe.

;

fpeech.

male known,

Happy having luch a (on.

[dilivrer, French.]

Thui (iiZ the capTJve did dcl'n/nThe captive thut pjve up his ({uitcr.

;

for the faving forte of the word of
not with reftraintio any certain kind o( d.-liviry, but howfoevcr the fame fliall chance to be

Oed

.ill tliinf,!
R,m. viii. 32.
An: theciti'3, that I got with wounds,
Veli-utr'd up again with peaceful words ? Stah/p,

ficely liiic ui

Arriving; achiding; acoatciijDia.

pronunciation

iifually fpeak,

give up.

D£f. itioa'tion. It./, [from delili^o.Lzing.

ClurfndoH,

4. Utter.tncc ;

To Deli'ver up. V, a. To furrender; to

fcvcriA Jrhrium there ii a Imall iDllammation of
the brain.
^r6bfhncl co l>i..T,

tin.]

After the ddi-viiyoi your royal father'! perfon
I undertaking to the
queen mother, that I would find foiuc mcius to
gctacccls to him, fire was pleafed to fend me. Dsnh,
Nor did he in any dep,ree contribute to the drIti'cry of hlfi houfe, wliich was at fiift imagined,
becaufe it was fu ill, or not at all, d>:feiuled.
into the hands of the army,

We allege what the fcriptures themfulvei do

of mind ; dotage.
Too great alacriry and promptncfi in anrwcrlng,
efpcciallyin perfons na'urallyof another temper,
ii a fign of an approaching Jtliriym j and in a

A

mit.

Alienation

[Latin.]

;»./.

He I'wore, with fobs.

ULitrjitarf.

^

To give from hand to hand; to tranf-

2.

Beyle.

That he would labour my ddiveiy.
Stui'fpfftf.
furrender; aft of giving up.
3.
•

If a true account may be expelled by future
ages from the prefent, your iDrdiliip wi.i be dtl'evtr-

DELI'RIUM.

dtlwercii of thofc experiments.

Dei. I'vERr.
/. [from the verb.]
1
The aft of delivering.
2. Releafe ; refcue ; faving.

Dtlrvfr me not wcr u.-ito the will of mine enemies i for fallis witneffcj are rifen up againlV me,
and fuch as breathe out cruelty.
Pj.ilm xivii. 1 1.
The conflables luve dtl'mcrtd h.'r ot/.-»- to mc.
and (he (ball luve whipping enough, 1 waiT.mc

Dill.

underllanding ai well ai ever I knew.
Sv/ifi.
On bed
DrUrrui flung, deep frcm his pillow flici. Ttim/'ii.

Sidnry.

To Deli'ver o'ver.

reflifiej, or cx-

quifitely d> puiated, as thofc that were ufed by the

».-.

Hrocles fiemed fo to ovciriin his age in ftrcngth,

Deli'rious. aiij,
headed

Not in ufe.

tlvat Mufidorui could

;

madnefs.

mcnilroums were not ar, highly

.

tin.]

folly ;

Divers ehymical experiments, delivered by fober
authors, have been believed falfe, only becaufe the

Sliakt/f.

Tell me your highiiefi" plraf irc,
What from your grace I (hall </f/;wr to him Shak.
I knew a cler|!yman who appeared to dilivtr his
fermon uithout looking into his notes.
Stei/i.

Dia.

Dotage ;

and gracious woida,

That aged eirs play truant at his talc*.

[iltliramentum; ha-

Deli ra't ION. n. f.

A relater ; one that comntunicates
fomething by fpeech or writing.

1.

Which hi;> fair tongue, conceit's expoCtor,

A doting or tbolifh fancy. Di3.
To DELI'RAIE. -v. «. {del,ri,, Latin.]
To dote to rave ; to tallc or a£^ idly.

entrance of the doge's palace, with the glorT^us
title oS dilivirtr of the commonwealth.
jiJdifiiit.
Him thci r </f/iT'«-.-i- Europe docs cnnfcfs
All tongues e.xtol him, all religions blcfi. HjJifex.

to tcll ; to relate ; to utter ;

;

Di^ii'trt in fuch apt

calcined matter, by haneing it up in
mojil cellars, into a lixivious hutuour.

Andrew Doria hat a Satoe ereAed tt> him at the

to pi'onounce.
A mirth-moving jeft.

Delk^ua'tion. «./. [dcliqiiatia, Latin.]

Deli'rament. n.f.

DEL

D EL

D,E L
be refolved into i l!(|Uor very loalogoui
to that which the chymids make of I'jlt of tartar,
B'jyU.
kit in moift cellars to dtliqaittc.
Such an ebullition ai we fee made by the m\tturc of fnme ch' -tiical liquori, as oil of vitriol and
It will

Brmun'i f'u/ejr Sntii'i.

Milnn.
3

K i

•

'

-/o

DEM

DEL
To DELUDE.

To beguile

1

I',
;

a.

{dthie, Lat.]

to cheat ; to deceive ; to

The ail of deluding

I.

deceit;

impole on.
Sbiikeffiare's Hmry VI.

Let not the Trojans, with a I'eign'd pretence
Of protRr'd pcjte, delude the Lacian prince. Dryd.

To dil'appoint

2.

Delu'der.
guiler ;

;

». /.

[(torn delude. '\

J.

The liate of one deluded.

J.

A falfe reprefentation

Inform vt of thy fortunes ;

a

And fondly mournM the dear ddufiin gone. Prtor.
Delu'siVe. w^". [from at/a/K/jiLat.] Apt
to deceive ; beguiling ; impofing on.
When, fir'd with p.illijn, we attack the fair,

an impoflor ;

Young one.

er-

True wifdom, finds her not, or by delujicn. Milion.
I, waking,

flatterer, fiy, all fair defudcr fpcik;

war

Tt DELVE, f . n. [belpan. Sax. delwn,
Dutch ; perhaps from J«^^l»|, a hog.
'Jr.vius.

to open the ground with a

Dema'nd. n.f. [</««c»i/i', French.]

Caught by ycur own dclujive art.

While

the bafe and groveling multitude were
dclufivt deities, thofc o( a more
ereft afpeft and exalted fpirit feparated themfelvcs

liftening to the

I'hsenomena fo delafivc, that it is very hard to
efcape impofition and miflake.
ffcsdioard.

:

Shakeffcure.

Dflvb. n.f. [from the verb.]

A ditch

;

a pit ; a pitfal ; a den ; a c4ve.

De'maGOGUE,

under water.
The apoillc ck>th

weapon.
Sleuth.
Demofthenes and Cicero, though each of them
a leader, or, as the Greeks called it, a demagogue,
in a popular iUte, yet fetm to diftcr in their

2.

which fignifies thofe that are held of

fuperior lord.
It is foinetiraes ufed alfo
for a dillinflion between thofe lands that

the lord of the manor has in his ov.'n
handi, or in the hands of his IciTce,
demifed or let upon a rent for a term of
years or life, and fuch other lands ap-

a royal jurifdiflion

cient in'if.ritors.

3.

to.

D E M a'n D E R
1.

ySwi//.

To DEMA'ND. V. «. [demander, Fr.]
r.

To claim r to alk for with authority.
Thi; pound of ftefh, which I demard of hni.
Is Nearly bought ; 'tis mine, and I will have it.

To overwhelm; to eaufe » fitlV-*hder

Sbake/jfvgre.

z.

To qucftioti; to interrogate.
And whca Uriah was come unto hiiD> David

+

liit

.

n.

f [demtindeur, Fr.

One that requires a thing with autho-.
rity.

2.
3.

One thataflcs a quellion.
One that afks for a thing

in order to
purchafe it.
They grow very fart and fat, which alfo bettereth
their tafte, and delivereth them to the demeindert
ready ufc at all fcafons.
"
Carenii.

been wli:illy inclTcdlual, except about the defew gentlemen j and even there, in

general, very unskilfully made,

one that demands redrefs.

One of the witncffcs depofcd, that dining on a

me/ncs of a

battering waves rufli in

A plaintiff;

Sunday with the demandant, whofe wife had

Thofe ads for planting foreft trees have hitbcr.

Utaskaore.

iV/r.

Coke,
z.

Dj^t-ies.

Land adjoining to the manlion, kept
in the lord's own hand.

The rertlels flood the land wioM overflow,

ShaU.^f/»irall.

adlion, becaufe he demandeth lands.

below the fijuirc's lady at church, (he tlie faid wife
dropped fome exprelfions, as if flie thought her
hulband ought to be knighted.
Hf.ftaior.

and leigniory, though the landr of that county in
devirhe were polieircd for the moft part by the an-

That earldom indeed had

Firft to a torrent, then a rf7»;e, fwells

the weight of any calamity.
At length corrupt'ioii, like a gU\tri\ ftocd,

Dema'kdant. n.f. [from demand.]
1. He who is a<Elor or plaintiff in a real

Eftate in land.
Having now provided

2.

No longer then within his hinlcs he dwells,

Z,

All fums c',niandeitle, for licence of alienation
of lands holden in chief, have been
rtayed in the way to the hanaper.
Baton.
to be made

pertaining to the faid manor as belong
to free or copyholders.
Phillips.

A gentleman uf noble parentage,

,

aflced for.

a

Of fair <^ti«/nci, )<(>uthful, and nobly allied. Sink.

Still the

Dema'ndable. adj. [from demand.]
That may be demanded ; requefted ;

civilians, r'ud oppofed to feodum, or fee,

Bot if with bays and dams they drive to force
Hi' channel to a new or narrow courfe,

Jmp'acable, till litlugd^jy the foani,
The /hip finks, found'ring in the «(! jbyft.

fuch like afts, which may be done without any words, are demands in law.
Blount.

a fiver.

B> which lit dtUgd earth wo<ilu ulclefs j^row.

:

S-wijt.

nally of himfelf, called dominium by the

that the old

Derbam.
^. Any fudden and refiillefs calamity.
Tt De'luce. t. a. [(rem the noon.]
I. To drown ; to lay totally under water.

the other in law
in deed, as in every
there is exprefs demand; ia
law, as every entry in land-diftrefs for
rent, taking or feifing of goods, and

f receipt,

1
^t./. [domaine, French.]

That land which a man holds origi-

1.

Isying entirely

An overflowing of the natural bounds of

mandant or plaintiff. There are two
manners of demands, the ope of deed,

A

Fr. from dilu-

plairtly intimate,

from plaint ; for all civil acby demands or
plaints, and the purfuer is called detions are purfued either

tunuUts, to fend for them, to flatter and embolden
them.
Kiitg Cbarla.
plaujiblc, infigniflcant word, in the mouth ol
an expert demagogue, is a dangerous and dreaclful

Deme'an.
Deme'sne. 3

world was fubjc£l to pcr-.fh by a delude, as this is
fubjeft to peri/h by conflagration. Surtut'ilhcoij.

The afking of what is due.

[Inlaw.]

4.

guiflicd

<vium, Lat.]
;

A

[Jii^ayay©-.]

factious orator.

A certain quantity of

A general inundation

/.

My

It hath alfo a proper fignification diHin-

DiS.
coals dug in the mine or pit.
Ds'lver. n.f. [from delve.] A digger ;
one that opens the ground with a Ipade.

1.

».

pradice.

For their bairns bread, wives, and felves.
Ben yi^fon.

15e'LUGE. «. /. [deluge,

A

The calling for a thing in order to

3.

ringleader of the rabble ; a popular and

Dem.^'in.

Which they dig out fro' the dtlva.

Locke.

bookleller tells me, the i^en<»r</ for thofe my
pa;e.s increafes daily.
^
Addifon..

Where Mammon erf. did fun his treafury, Sfeiiftr.

TVjjit turn round like grinJIe-ftimes,

way

Irttle

purchafe it.

He by and by

Such a light and mettled dance
Sa«r you never yet in France;
And by leadmen, for the nonce,

he hut a

This confidence is fnnnded on no better foundation than a delu/sry prejudice.
GhnviHe.

His feeble feet direflcd to the cry J
Which to th.it Ihady dilve him brought at lalt.

Delve of Coals.

delu/us, Latin.]

his wlflies into demands, will

from thinking he ought to ob-ain them.
2.
queftion ; an interrogation.

Who were the chief demagogues and patrons of

his father

Was call'd 9iciliu>.

petites ;

Apt to deceive.

Figuratively.
opinion.
What's his name and birth ?

—I cannot dtU't him to the root

Dan. iv. 77.
Giving vent, gives life and ftrength, to our apand he that has the confideiyc to turn

i

Ta//rr, N" 8i.

Delu'so'rv. adj. [from

found one's

to

fift ;

This matter is by the decree of the watchers,
and the dammd by the word of the holy ones.

Prior.

from the reft.

fathom ; to

A claim ; a challenging ; the aflcing
of any thing with authority.

1

Itihallgabardi
But I wiltVf/vf one yard below the mines,
Shfit/parc.
An-J blow them »t the moon.
Pelve of convenient depth your thrafhing lioofi
With tcmptr'd clay then fill and face it o'er.
Drjdin.
The S!thy fwine with dil'Ar.g fno«t
PhiUpi.
The rontci foreft undermine.

To

which was of a cubick form.
Peacham en Geometry^
[la law.] To profecute in a real aiflion.

3.

Prior,

ipade.

2.

mifery of Greece fliould have an end,

When they would double the alur in De-

los,

Till you at length believe it true j

You fancy iirft, and then affert.

and

replied,

The happy whjmfisy you purfue.

I'tft.

for, it feems.

They crave to be demanded.
Shakej^eeire.
The oracle of Apollo being demanded, w'^icn the

view'd with grief the rifing fun,

Deliifrvr figlis and brittle vows we bear.

And thu« the hta dauda-i tune their fong.

To dig;

Shaiejfcarct

illufion;

;

A bc-

Anfwer me this, ere yec my heart docs brtak.
CranvUU.

\.

.'

Who therefore fecks in thefe

cheat ; a falfc pretender.
Say,

a cheat ; guile;
fraud; coUolion;

;

rour ; a chimerical thought.

to f'ruftrate.

a deceiver ;

treachery;

demanded of him how Joab did, tod how the peopi*
did, and liow the war prnfpered
z Sam. xi. •)•
If any friend of Caelar's Jimatid why Brutui
rofe againft Czfar, this is my anfwer: Not th»
I loved Cxfar lefs, but that I loved Rome mote.

falfehood.

O, give me leave, I have ithitd you ;

TwM neither Charles, nor yet the duke.
.

DEM

Detu'sJON. «./ [dclitfio, Lat.]

+.

A dunner

;

one that demands a debt.

Deme'an. n.f. [(rem demener, Fr.]

.

A

mien ; prefencc ; carriage ; demeanour ; deportment.
At his feet, with forrowful demian.
Aid deadly hue, an armed corfe did lie. Sfienfer,
To DEME'AN. v. a. [from demener, Fr.]
I, To behave ; to carry one's felf.
Thofe

DEM
us to Jenean ourfelves to God humbly and devoutly, to our governors obediently, aad to our neighbours jultiy, and to ourfelves foberly and tempe»«*1)'
Siult.
man cannot douht but that there is a God ;
and that, according as he liiaeatis himfelf towards
him, he will make him happy or lail'erable /or

A

e'er.

Tilbtjm.

Strephon had long perplex'd his brains,

How with (o high a nymuh he might
Stulft,

To leffen

to debafe ; to undervalue.
;
Now, out nt' doubt, Antipholis is ir.ad

Elfe he would never

h aemean himfelt.

j

Car-

Oi' fo infupportjole a pride he was, that where
hij deeds might well ftir envy, his dtmeae^ur did
^

rather breed difdain.

SiJn/y.

Angels beft like us, when we are mod like nnto
them in all parts of decent demaiKur.
Hookir.
His geftures fierce
He tnark'd, and mad drireantur, then alone.

As he fuppos'd, all unobferv'd, unfecn.
Millan.
Thns Eve, Witli fad d<iHeannr meek,
HI worthy I.
Milton.
He was of a courage not to be daunted, which

was manifefted in all liis aftions, cfpecially in his
whole dzmtan'Mr atRhee, both at the landing, and
upon the retreat.
Cijrtndcn.
n. /.

pi.
;

properly </«w^«.
which a man

that

poflefles in his own right.

To DEME'NTATE. -v. n. [Jemtnto. Lat.]

To make mad.
Dememta'tiom. n./. [ Jemeiitat h, Lzt.]
Making mad, or frantick.
Deme'rit. a./, yemerite, Fr. from dVmeritui, of Jimereor, Latin.]
1.

The oppofite to merit; ill deferving

;

nilhment.
They (hould not be able once to ftir. or to murmur, but It flinuld be known, ar.d they fliortened
according to their Jmi,„,.

Spinf.-r on Irdagd.

Thon liy'ft by me, to me thy breath refign
;
Mine is the merit, the drmirii thine.
Dryden.
Whatever they acquire by their induftry or inpnuity, fliould be fecure, unlefs forfeited by any
JtmeritoT offence againft the cuilom of the family.
Trmple,

.

Anciently the fame With merit ; defert.

my life and being

I fetch

May fpeak, unbonnettin<, to as proud a fortune
As this that 1 have reach'd.

Shakefpiare'i Orhtlh.

fo Deme'rit. -u. rt. [d,mtnter,YT.}
deferve Wame or punifhment.

To

Deme'rsed. aJj^ [from detmrfus, of Jenurgo, Latin.] Plunged ; drowned. Dia.

Deme'rsion. n.f. [demtrfio, Latin.]
1.

A drowning.

[In chymiftry.]

D E M e's N E.

Dia.

D

See
E M A I N .
infeparahle particle.

dimidium, Lzt.] Half; one of two equal
This word is only ufed in coma.i

d.-migod; that is, half hu-

[deMii, demi/s, Fr.]

Inexorable rigour is worfe than a lafche dimijji^n

cannon or demi-mnnoriy culverin or d^mi-culverin, may be framed at the fame price that one of
thefe will amount to.
tCHkim.

of fovcrcign authority.

To DEMI'T.

Demi-culverin. n.f. [demi a.nd atherin,

of thirty pounds weight
The diameter

of the bore is fix inches t.vo eighth parts.

Dia.

a.

UEfiran-j^:.

[demitto, Latin.]

deprefs ; to hang dowa ; to let

pounds weight.

When they are in their pride, that is, advar,.- ing their train, if they decline their neck to tUeground, they prefently doKlt and let fall the fame.
Ersivr's t^'ulgar E:-raart.

DEMO'CRACY. n.f [V»He«ria.] One

Dia.

DEKii-cvLVBRin Ordinary.

of the three forms of government ; that

A gun four

in

inches four eighths diameter in the bore,
ten foot long. It carries a ball four inches

two eighths diameter, and

which the fovereigu power is neither

lodged in one man, nor in the nobles,
but in the colleftive body of the people.While many of the f.nvanti, by induiirj and

pounds

tt.i

To.

fall

Dia.

A

gun four inches two eighths diameter in
the bore, and ten foot long.
It carries
a ball four inches diameter, and nine

eleven ounces weight.

_

virtue, arrive at riches and eftcem, then the nature of the government inclines to a denijcraey.

Demi-culverin, e/der Sort, A gun four
inches and fix eighths diameter in the
bore, ten foot one third in length.
It

Temple.

The majority, having the whole power of the
community, may employ all that power in mak-

carries a ball four inches four eighth
parts diameter, and twelve pounds ele-

form ot the government is a perfedl democracy.

ven ounces weight. Military Diaionary.
They continue a perpetual volley of dimi-cul-

Democra'tical. adj. [from democracy.'^

ing laws, and executing thofe la«s ; and there the

Locke.

Pertaining
popular.

Rt/clfli.

The army left two dim't-cul-vtr'wt, and two other
good guns.

>

Clarindcn.
'i

Demi-devil. »./. [dem! ani .-levil.']

Par-

democraticat in

le

And their rf«.vi)/^/''rf works to pieces pnt.

er ; a layer wallc.

Demom'tiOiV. K.J. [from demoli/ik.] The
afl

spaniels, curs,

of

overthrowing

or

deraoliOiing

buildings ; dcllruclion.

Two gentlemen (hould have thedireftion in the
demolition of I^unkirk.

Snvifr.

DE'MON. n. f [de/rmon, Latin

A fpiritj

generally au evil

;

Jal^a,,.]

Ipirit

;

a

devil.
I

felt

him ftrike, a;id now I fee h'm fly i

Curs'd dimon ! O for e\: r bti.ken lie
'I h lit fatal fljafts, by which I inward bleed!
Prhr,

DeMONi'aCAL. 7 ] rr
i
[from -/.».;,.]
Demo'niack. r"^',

1.

Belonging to the devil

devililh.

;

lie, all iinarm'd,

Shnll chafe the^ with t!ic tenor of his voice
Fioin tliy ditn'jnijrk holds, pnlT^'flion fnul, /I^f'rsir.

lyci/ca.

Showght, water-rugs, and rf<wi rvlvft, are'rlcpec'
AU fcy the name of d»g«. i,i,aie/'pttirt't Macbeth.

DryJet.

Demo'lisher. n.f. [from demolijh.] One
that throws down buildings; a dcHroy-

a wolf; a mongrel dog between a dog

and wolf:

Tilhlfgn,
^

Urd llghtnlns play'd along the firmament,

Demi-man. a./ [demi and »wn.] Half
a term of reproach.

of my book woyld long
and laid even wich the

gf"'"'.

Dryden.

:

dc
To throw down buildings ;»
[demolir, Fr.

-v. a.

I expciiled the fjbiick

Light demi-lances from afar they throw,
Fallen'd with leathern thongs, to gall the foe.

a man

partly in tha

iince have been dci>.ilij%'idf

[demi and l/rner.'] A
a ftiort fpear ; a ha!f-pike.

Small pennons, which their ladies colours bore.

is

to razv ; to deftroy.

Demi-lance, n.f.

On their rteel'd heads then dcmi-Zance! wore

the right

Arhulhiiot,

moliar, Lat.]

Sidny.
Milnn.

Tranfported drmi-gidi (loud round.
And men grew heroes at the found,
Enfl.im'd with glory's charms.
Pctr.
Nay, half in heaven, except (what '« mighty
odd)
A fit of vapours clouds this demi-god.
Pope.

fo

To DEMO'LISH.

He took his leave of them, wh'ife eyes bade
Be gods, or angels, d,m!-gadi.

it,

peoplff.

taking of divine nature ; half a god
;
an hero produced by the cohabitation of
divinities with mortals.

to a drmi-gad.

hey are dill wiihin the lino of vulgarity, and
Sroton's Vulgar Erroun.

Shakrfpcare's Olbello.

Par-

government ;

As the government of England has a mixture of

Why he hath thus enfnar'd ray fi>ul and body ?

Demi-cod. n.f. [demi anA gnd.'^

to a popular

are dcmoiratical enemies to truth.

taking of infernal nature ; half a devil.
Will you, 1 pray, demand that deml-dniil.

i

and fix inches diameter.

'V.

]

Demi-culverin of the /owe/! Size.

man, half divine.
We mn\ adventure this battle, lert v/e perifh hy
the complaints of this barking dtmi-ir.in. Kr.atii
Demi-caknon. n./. [dcmi :ir\A cannon.
Demi-cannon Lc-wejl. A great gun that Demi-wolf. n.f. [demi &nA ivolf.'] Half
carries a ball

Stcifr.

-y. <7.

preflion.

Ten engines, that /hall be of equal force cither

Dryden.

[Jemi, Fr.

parts.

pofition,

To DEMI'SE.

To grant at one's death > to grant bv
meter in the bore, twelve foot long. It
will
to bequeath.
carries a ball of fix inches five eighths
My executors Ihall not have power to demife my
diameter, and thirty-fix pounds weight.
lands to be purchafed.
Sii'ift's Lafl fFiU.
Dia. Demi'ssion. n.f. [demij/io,
hmifT Latin.] De^
What this a fleeve ? 'tis like a dtmii-cannnn.
gradation ; diminution of dignity ; deShahijpcare.

light lance ;

The putting any me-

dicine in a Jiffolving liquor.

DE'Ml.

About a month before the d^-mife of queen Anfie,
th? a;ltlior retired.

him farcwel with tears, making teroptea to him as

From men of royal fiege j and my demtrits

2.

ufed but in formal and ceremonious language.

DfiMi-CANNOtf of the grcateji Size.
A
gun fix inches and fix eighth parts dia-

verins.

what makes one worthy of blame or pu-

2.

n.f, [from demetrt, dempti, demifc, Fr.] Death; deceafe. It is feldom

to a

riage ; behaviour.

An eftate in lands

Demi'se.

!

Shaktff.

Deme'anouh. n./. [Jemincr, Fr.]

DiMz'Mii.

A

great gun
four eighths diameter in the
bore, twelve foot long.
It carries a
niot fix inches one fixth diamster, and
thirty-two pounds weight.
fix inches

;

Demean himfelf the wedding-night.
2.

DEM

D E M

TWe plain and legible lines o^duty requiring Demi-cannon Ordinary.

2.

Influenced ]iv ihe devil; produced by
dial>olical pulfenion.
Donottic^k phtenfy, moping melancholy. Miiton.

Dimo'niack,

.

DEM

DE U

D EM

Dfmc'niack. h. /. [from the adjeflive.] Demo'nstratively. adv. [from deOne pofTcfled by the devil otic whofc
mcnjfrali've.'l
mind is diilurbed and agitated by the 1. With evidence not to be oppofed or
power of wicked and unclean fpirits.

doubted.

Tliofc lunatkks and demtmiacis that were reftored to tlieir rifht n'.ind, were fuch as fought
attci hinii and believed in him.
Bmllry.

aflurancc cither of the good which he dcligns, nr
of the evil which he avoids, from arguments dc-

DeMo'NiAN.

oi/J.

[from i/fK Oil.]

Iich of his icign allotted, righllier cjll'd
l?Dwerj of fire, air, water.

Miltm.
DKMONO'cRACr.n.y; [ix'ij/M:» and K^ar/a.

it

:

is

now

many wife men, that have fecret

hearts and tianfparent countenances ; yet this
would be done with a demure abafing of your eye
fumetimes.
Baem.
A cat lay and looked fo demure as if there had

Firft, I dmtmjiralivtly prove,

Demittian fpirits now, from the clcm'^nt

moded

Sbakefpeare.

There be

Hsutb.

motjlrafively certain.

•fFcfledly

generally taken in a fenfe of contempt.
After a demwe travel of regard, 1 tell them I
know my place, as I would they Jhould do theirs.

No man, in matters of this life, requires an

De-

of the nature of devils.

viiiih J

Grave;

2.

;

That feet were only maiie to move.
Prior.
2. Clearly ; plainly ; with certain knowledge.

been neither life nor foul in her.
L'EJtrtnge.
S? cat, transformed, fat gravely and demure.
Till moufc appeared, and thought himfcif fecure.

the fimplicity of

Dry dim.

perieftion, it was not in the po\»er of earth to
The power cf the devil.
Diel.
work them from it.
Brnvit.
Demono'latrv. n. /. [ Jaif/v» and ^a- Demonstra'tor. ».
/. [from demonjD/VfP.
Tfsia.] The worfhip of the devil.
One that proves ; one that
ftrate. ]
Dkmono'locy. tt.f. [JaUii and Xoy^-.]

Jove fent and found, far in a country fcene.
Truth, innocence, good-nature, look fcrene
From which ingredients, firft, the dext'rons boy
Pick'd the demure, tlie aukward, and the coy.
Swift,

Difcourfe of the nature of devils.

king James inticled

his

Thus

book concern,

Dtir.orftratlvtty underitanding

teaches ; one that demonilratcs.

Demonstr a'tory. adj.
firate.'\

ing witches.

Dhmo'nstrable.

adj.

flrable as geometry.

GlanvilU.

Demo'nstr.\blv. adv. [from demonflraIn fuch a manner as admits of
certain proof; evidently; beyond poflibility of contradiftion.
He.']

He fliould have compelled his minlftcrs to cxexcute the law, in catca that rftmon/Jrai/y concerned
the public Ic peace.
C/<i/iWcn.

being full of aerial particles, are flatulent, when
dilVolved by digsiiion.
Athuthn^j.

Put on a fober habit,
Talk with refpcS, and fwear but now and then,

'u. n.
[demrursr, French ;
dimorarc, Italian ; demorari, Latin.]
I. To delay a proccfs in law by doubts

IVahzini Angler.

to fufpend
;
determination ; to hefitate ; to delay the
conclufion of an aifair.
Upon this nib the Englifii ambalTidogrs thought
fit to </(ff.'i/r, and fo lent into England tt> receive
dircftions from the 1 irds of the council. ILixward.

Running into demands, they expert from us a
fudden refoiution in things wherein the devil of
Uelphos would demur.
Bro^vn^s l-^ulgar Errourtt.
He mud be of a very fluggifli or querulous humour, that fliall denwr upin fecttng out, or dcmdud higher cncouragemcnis than toe h"pc of

Decay of Piety.

hv-aven.

Lat.]

News of my death from rumour he receiv'd.
And what he wifli'd he eafily believ'd
But Ifing demurr^df tho^ from my hand he knew

The highefl degree of deducible or ar;

I

liv'd, fo loth he was to think it true.

To doubt

3.

;

Drydtn.

to have fcruples or difficul-

to deliberate.
is fomethirg in our compofition
that
thinks and apprehends, and refledls and de'ibcrates, determines and doubts, confents and denies;
that wills and demtin, and rcfolves, and chufe>,
and rejeiSs.
Biitllcy.
ties ;

There

cible <icm'^nj\iat\t,ni

To Demu'r. 'V. a. To doubt of.
The latter I demur for in their looks
Much reafon, and in their a£kions, o:t appears.
Milton.

Dem'ur. tt.f. [from the verb.]

reafon.

Which way foever we turn ourfelves, we arc
encountered with clear evidences and fcnfible dtm:nJ}rMi:nt of a Deity.
Ti'Urfin.

Demo'nstrativh. ad/,

argument necellary

Seiz'J us, t!iough unl'frnayM.

[demonflralivus,

a. id

.itm^Jlrathjit

is

fluod, the n.ri,-r cannot choufc but inwardly yield.

Having the power of exprclling clearly
and ceruinly.

Painting is neceiTary to all other arts, becnufe of
tlie need which they have of d'',:t,nlirath'f figures,
u'hich often give n; >.'C light to the undcrilanding
than tlie dcarcft difcuurfci.
Prjdta.

1.

[from <T^-»i«r/».]
Modefty; fobernefs ; gravity of afpeft.
tt./.

Her eyes having in them

fuch a cbecrfulnefs,

fecmed to fmile in them ; though her
mouth and checks obeyed to that pretty demurerefs, which the more one marked, the more one
would judge the ))Oor foul apt to believe.
Sidnefm
as nature

AffeSed modeftv ; pretended gravity.
//.
/ [from demur.'] An
allowance m.ide by merchants to matters
of {hips, for their ftay in a port beyond
the time appointed.
DEMtj'RRER. It./, [dcmeurer, French;
2.

Demu'r RAGE.

i.

e.

A

manere in aliqtio loco, <vel morari.]

kind of paufe upon a point of difficulty
for, in every aflion, the
in an action
controverfy confifts either in the fad,
or in the law
if in the fad, that is
:

:

Sober ; decent.
Lo two moft lovely virgins came in place.
With countenance deniurty and modell grace.
'

Come, penfive nun, devout and pure.
Sober, ftedfalti and dcmm-t.

cafe plain to the judge, or fo hard

and

was a demurrer,

DEMU'RE. adj. [desmarurs, French.]
I.

tried liy tlie jury ; if in law, then is the

Miiion.

Mi!r'>Ti.

Ccrta nly the highe'l and dcareft concerns of a
temporal life areinfinitcly lefs valuable than thofe
of an eternal i and cunfequcntly ought, witirout
any dtmur at all, to be facrifitcd t'.> them, whenfoever thry come in competition with tliem. South.
All my demurs but double his attacks
At laft he whifper.J, Do, and we go fnacks. Pofe.

f'lih at, bein^; p'opolcd un:i any man, and undrr-

2.

Sbate'/ieare.

Demu'reness.

Sfenfir.

hefitaiion ; ful'penfc of opinion.
O progeny of Hcav'n, empyreal thrones

Having the powt^r of demonflration ;
invincibly conclnfive ; certain.

An

In the following line ic is the fame with
folemnly.
IVarburton.
Hark, how the drum^</<Ilc«r<.Jy wake tiic ilecpcrs!

brccdcth juft doubt.
I call
that plain to the judge, wherein he is
alfured of the law ; and in fuch cafe the
judge, with his aflbci.i:«s, proceeds to
judgment without farther work. But
when it is doubtful to him and his affociates, then is there ftay m:ide, and a
time taken, either for the court to think
farther upon it, and to agree, if they
can ; or elfe for all the juftices to meet
together in the Chequer chamber, and,
upon hearing that which the fcrjeants
can fay of both parts, to advife, and fet
down as law, whatfoever they conclude
firm, without farther remedy.
CoiueJ/.

Doubt;

With reafon hath deep lilence and demur

Latin.]
1.

2.

;

Indubitable evidence of the fenfes or

2.

Sbakejpeore.

Efop's damfcl, turned from a cat to a woman,
fat very detr.urdy at the board"; end, till a moufe
ran betoie her.
Baton.
Next ftood hypocrlfy with holy leer,
Soft fmiling, .and demurely looking down ;
But hid the Jaeger underneath the gawn. Dryden,

To paufe in uncertainty

t.

Tilhlfin.

fuch as wherein ic is not by
any way pci(];b!e to \>i deceived, thereunto the mind
doth nccelTarily yield.
HnUr.
Where the agreement or difigrecment of any
thing is pliinly and clearly perceived, it is called
Mmonflmt'wn.
Luke.

Wear prayer-books in my pocket, look demurely.

and objeftions. See Demurrek.
To thi* pica the plaintilJV^mwrfW.

[ ditnonftratio,

gumental Evidence
the ftrongell degree of proof; fuch proof as not only
evinces the pofition proved to be true,
but fhews the contrary pofition to be
abfurd and impoflible.
Whit appeareth to be true by ftrong and invin-

;

pretended gravity.

To DEMU'R.

\Vc cinnol Jem^rjirate thcfe things fo, as to
(litw that the contrary often iuvolves a contradic-

ShaieJ'peare,

Demi;'relv. adv. [hom demurf.']
1. With afFeded modefty ; folemnly
with

.

dent abfurdity.

n. /.

Demurir.g upon me.

\demuJceris, Latin.]

Pcafe, being deprived of any aromatick parts,

of certainty ; to prove in fuch a manner
as reduces the contrary poiiiicn to evi-

1

:

are mild and dcmuktnt in tl.e higtieil degree; but,

To prove with the highell degree

tion.

adj.

Softening ; mollifying ; affuafive.

To DEMO'NSTRATR. -v. a. [dmonjfro,

Demonstra'tion.

look with an afFefted modefty not ufed.
Your wife Odtavia, with her modell eyes,

And nill conclufion, fliall acquire no honour,

Demo'lcent.

The grand articles of our belief are as ilem'n-

To

To Demu're. v. n, [from the noun.]

flrate.

[dcmonJlrnHlii,
Lat.]
That which may be proved beyond duubt or contradidion ; that which
may be made not only probable but evident.

Lat.]

[from demonHaving the tendency to dcmon-

rare, as

it

A prohibition was granted, and hereunto there
Ajli^c't Parergcn.

DEN.

DEN
A cavern or hollow running horizon-

1.

ra DE'NIGRATE. ^. a. [dem-p-i, Lat.]

To blacken

and dcitcmhaticm ; as Stoicks,
PcrlpatetLks;
Epicureans, and the like.

under
dillinft trom a hole which runs

;

are cafually or artificially denigrated

All men arc finncrs : the moft
righteous amon"'
us muft conlefs ourfelves
to come under tha' da-.r".

down perpendicularly.
They here difperfed, fome in the air, fome on
the earth, fome in the waters, fome amongit tlie
irinerah, der:i, and caves und;r the earth. Hoohr,

The cave of a wild beaft.

2.

The tyranc's Jrn, whofe ufe, though loft to fame.
Was now th' a; artment of tlie royal dame ;

The cavern, only ti her fatlier known.
By him was to his darling daughter fliown. Dryd.
'Tis then the (hapelefs bear his Jca forfakes

Dryderi,

Den, the termination of a local name,

3.

may fignify either a valley or a woody

DENi'ABLE.iKj). [from deny J] That which
may be denied ; that to which one may
refufe belief.

The negative authority ii alfo ictiitthk by reafon.
Brawn.

_^

Deni al. n.f. [from deny.']

;

with a repenting manner of aggravating his own
evil, where den'iai would but make the fault fouler.
Sidney.

/•

contrary to grant, allow-

Here comes your father; never make denial
I muft and will havt Carhcrine to my wife. Sliak.
The dititl of land'ng, and hafty warning us
away, troubled U» much.

Bacon.

He, a: cv'ry frefli attempt is repcil'd

With faint </rnwA, weaker than before. DriJtn.
4. Abjuration ; contrary to acknowledgment of adherence.
We may deny God in all th«fe aft« that are capable of being morally good or evil : tho'.e are
the
proper fcenes, in which we aft our confeflions or
dtniah of him.
Scu:b.

Dbni'er.w. /. [from i*«y.]
1.

A contradidor

an opponent; one that
holds the negative of a propofition.
By

the word

;

Vjrti.o the atSrmcr intends our

whole duty to God and man, and the d^er by the
word Virtue means only courage, or, at rooft,
our duty toward] our neighb<jur, without induding the idea of the duty which we owe to Cod.

....

A difowner

2.

Ifait,.
;

one that does not own or

acknowledge.
If it was fo fearful when Chrift looked
hj« denier
into repentance, what will it be when he Ihall

him mto d:(liuaion?

A refufer

look
S:ult.

one that refufes.
am elhemcd by my denier fufficient
of myfelf to difchaige my di.ty to God as a
ptieft,
thougii^not to mtn ai a j,rince.
King Charlei.
De ^f e'r n. /. [from denariui, Lat. It is
pronounced as deneer, in two fyllables.]
A fmall- denomination of French money ; the twelfth part of a fous.
Yon will not pay for the piaffes you have burft ?
3.

P">&'^1^in feveral

wavs of

artificial

;

It may be 1

I

•—No, not a dinier

the greateft mteger being a ye^r.

be the natural

Brc^„.

Ths? giver of a name ; the
perfon or
thing that caufes an appellation.

mftances of d./tigrali n, the metah

B)th the leas of one name Ihoi.ld have
one comm-)n denzminator.
Breton % Vulgar Errours.

Deniza'tion. «./ [from denizen.'} The
aft of infranchifing, or making

Denominator fa Fraaion, is the num-

free.

ber below the line, Ihewing the
nature
and quality tif the parts which any
in-

appears
all

ages

"

Datiti

teger is fuppofed to be divided
into:
thus in |, 8 the denominator
fhews

DETMI7EN. !«./.[ from dina/ddyn,
DE'NISON. I man of the cit/; or dinefydd, {xtz

freeman ;

of the city, Wellh. 1
one infranchifed.

you,

that the integer is fuppofed to be

A

law term, which the Saxons
and Angles found here, and retained.
Da-via.

Thus th' Almighty Sire began : ye gods,
Natives, or denize) s, of bleft abodes.

When a Cngle broken number or fraaion hath

From whence thefe murmurs ?
Drydtn.
A great many plants will hardiv, with nurfing'
be made to produce their feed out of
their native

for its denoainalor a number

confining of an unjt,
in the firft place towards the
left hand, and nothing but cyphers from the unit
towards the right
hand, it is then more aptly and rightly
called a decim..l fraaion.
Coeker', Arittmetick.
nemmnarcr of any proportion, is the ouotienC
arifing from the divifion of the
antecedent by the
conlcquent : thus 6 is the denominator of
the pro,
portion that 30 hath to
5, becaufc

but corn, fo neceffary for all people,
;
is fitted
to grow and to feed as a free denijin
of the

world.

Grenv.
XT r
«
He
fumm-ins ftraight hjs demzens of air;
The lucid fquadrons round the fails repair.
.

Poiie.

""• "•
[f™*" the noun.]
'^"rrP?'""'^^'*To infranchife ; to make free.

Stakeffeare.

)s aifo

Pride, luft, covetize, being feveral

To DENO'TE, -v. a. [denoto, Latin.]

Dinne.

mark ;

To DENOU'NCE. -v.

choly, phlegm, or choler. Br-.ivn's
Vulg. Errors

«.

tin ;
I.

[dencnino,

The commendable purpofe of confecraiion

a.
dcnoncer, French.]

not of cve.y one underftood, they
have been conthough they had fuperltitioufly meant

Shall them adminifli, dthouncing

On their impcnltt-ncc.

wrath to comeMilton.

They impofe their wild conj^aurcs for laws
on other:, an'd dciicunct wat againft all
2;

Hredeftination is deftrufjivc to all that
is efta'b-

up*

that receive

10 threaten by fome outward fign or
e.xpreiron.

among men, to allth.it is mod precious
to
human nature, to the two faculties that

l.nied

He cndrd fiownirg, and his look denounced
Difpcratc revenge, and battle dangerous
To left than gods..
Milton.

denminate

us men, uuderftanding and
wiU j for what ufe
can we have of our underllanJings,
if we cannot
do what we know to be our duty ?

And, if we aft
we of our
Hammond.
yDENOMt-f A TION. n./ [denominate, Latin.]
A name given to a thing, which
commonly marks fome principal quality
r

furelv

He- of their wicked ways

ftrued as

Hxk^r

La.

[denuncio.

dcriunce unto you this day, that yc fliall

beini;

either that thofe places, which
were denominated
of angels and faints, (hould li:rve
for theworfliin
of fo glorious creatures
or elfe thofe gloriou.
;
creituios for defence, proteflion,
and' pat.ona.^e
'^
of fuch place!.

To-

To threaten by proclamation.
I

t° give a name to.

The fea grew white ; the rolling waves from far.
Like heralds, firft dcneunct the wat'ry war.

not voluntarily, what exercife
have

\,

rr

r

-

.

Dtydm.

/

lo give information againil ; to delate; to accufe publickly.
Archdeacons oiijht to propofe parts of the New
Teftament to be learned by heart by inferior cltrgymei., aud denounce fuch as are negligent.

But is there any token, deniminatian, or
monument ot the Gauls yet remaining in
Ireland, as
'*"" ",?,'."•« Scythians ? Spenfer-i Slate

DeNOu'NCF,MENT. n.f. [from denounce.]
The ait of proclaiming any menace;

-1

ofit.

of he!.
I he liking or dirtiking of the
people gives the
play the dencmination of good or bad
really make or conftitiite it

j

fuch.

J'

to be a fign of; to betoken
to
;
fliew by fjgns ; as, a quick pulfe
denotes
a fever.

An

^^.

•

The ail of denoting.

inflammation confifts of a fanguineous
afflux.on, orelfe is denmutalli
from other hu
miours, according to the predom'nancy
of melan-

;

tr
Harm.

[denotatio, Latin.

;

Falfehood is denizen'd, virtue is barbarous.

^° "^"'^

5) 30(6. This
exponent of the "proportion, or

,
Uenotation.
n.f.

Deno'minable. eidj. [denomino, Latin.]
That may be named or denoted.

^"'"•J

called the

ratio.

To thefe three places, yet all arc in all

Ti DENO'MINATE.

divid-

ed into 8 parts, or half quarters
and
;
the numerator 6 fhews, that you
take 6
of fuch parts, i, e. three quarters of
the

D'.rtixen is a Britilh

.

a minut».

O.ckeft Ariilm.

Uenomina'tor. v.f. [from denominau.]

are worn off, or ot.her^vifc
reduced into very n,inute parts.
^^^^,

Mingled thus, their ilfuc is inceftuous

ance or conceffion.

•

Thefe arc the advenient and

That which obtains a diftinft appellaThis would be more analogically
denominaHe.
The leail dir.omireiti've part of time is

A blackening, or making black.

denigration, anfwerably whereto mav

That which gives a name; that which
confers a diftinft appellation,
tion.

foil

Negation ; the contrary to affirmation.
z. Negation ; the contrary to confeffion.
No man more impudent to deny, where proofs
were not manifell no man more ready to confefs,
I .

n
r
Refufal; the

2.

Demora'tion. n.f. [denigratio, Latin.]

by the charters of denization, which in
were purchafed by them.

:

all

Bt\lc.

Gih/on's Camden.

My love can give no place, bide no dmay. Shai.
Dendro'logy. n.f. [j;,Jjo, and Ao'^®..]
The natural hiftory of trees.

5.

not at

lole its whitcncfs.

That the mere Iri/t were reputed jlitns,

</wyand»«y.] Denial; refufal.
To her in hade, give her this jeviel fay.

1.

Hartfliorn, and other white bodies, will be denigrated by heat
yet camphire would

place ; for the Saxon ben imports both.

Dena'y. n. f. [a word formed between

Deno MiNATivE. adj. [from denominate.]

Brczvns yulgar Errouri.

j

In woods and fields a wild deAru£lion makes.

.j^^,^;

in their natural complexion: thus are
charcoals made black
hj an infeaion of their own fuifitus.

;

What, (hail they feclc the lion in his den.
And fright him theie ?
Stjie/fieare.

fefls

to make black.
;
By furtcring fome impreflion from fir?, bodies

tally, Or with a ''mall obliquity,

ground

DEN

D E'N

DEN. »./ [ben, Saxon.]

but do.-s not

Drf len

I'hilofophy, the gicat idol of the
learned pari
of the heathen world, has divided
it into

many

3.

Aylifft'i Parergrm.

the. proclamation of intended evil;

de-

nunciation.
Falfc is the reply of Cain upon the r'tnoimeement
of his curfe,
iniquity ii greater than can bei

My

f^

given.

B^rotpn.

Denou'ncer,

DH O
Dtkou'ncer. »./. [from Jcnounet.'\ One
thac declares fome menace.
Here comet the fad dcK>unctr of my fate.

To toll the mournful knell of fepantion.

Dryier.

of «U ineomTill he has itxudatti himfelf
D(cay cf P,<ty
brances, he is unquaiilied.
[from denudate.^
«. /.

endeavouring to reftify fomctbing about

it» leaves,

If in fummer-time you dirtydt

Ray (Ml the Crcat'iii.

of hulbandry.
Burning of land, or burn-bating, is commonly
called dcrlliir'wg, that is, Dmonjhirwg or DmhighjhWi'l, becaufe moft ufed or lirll invented there.

M^.r Uir.fr,

De'nsity. n.f. \dcnfiiai, Latin.]

Chrift

fhey

ing the warning before me, I
lailing durance.

Belonging or relating to the teeth.
[In grammar.] Pronounced principally
1^ the agency of the teeth.

The datjl ct-nfonants are eafy, therefore let
them be mxt firft the labial-i/f/i»«/», as alfo the

other.

The denunciator does not make himfelf a party
Parerg.
!n iudgment, as the accufer does. Ayhffe's

To DENY', v. a. [denier, French ; denegt,
Latin.]
To contradift ; oppofed to a^rm.
I
not to
z. To contradift an accufation ;
.

confefs.
Sarah denied, faying,
was afraid.

De'ntal.

».

fmall teeth, or prominences' refcmbling
teeth, like thofe of a faw.

He omits the Jeiiiuj./a:it* of the edges of the
bill,

or thofe fmal oblique inc fi'jns made for the

better retention of the prey

Ore-.o'i

Mufaum.

DENTi'ct;iATEO. adj. [diHtituJaius, Lat.]
Set with fmall teeth.

De'nti FRicF. «./. [dens aiidy»-;V»> Lat.]
A powder made to fcour the teeth.
li Ihfb

groy powder 3 goo»l diK:tfrtu f

B. jonf.

The (hells of all forts of flicli-filh, being burnt,
obtain a c Juftick nature : moft ol them, fj orJeted

tni powdered, make excellent i/ri*ri/*Wr^'.
Orcvj'i Atuftcum.

Te Denti'sr. v.

[dentekr, French.]

a.

BrovMi't Vulgar Errcurs.

Deo'ppilatjvk. adj. [from deoppiltUe.'[
Deobftruent.

A phyfician prefcribed him a Jrffilatrve and
Deoscola'tion. n.f. [deofculatio, Lat.]
The aft of kiffing.

My young boy

•

We have an enumeration of the fcveral afts of

Sbaieffeare.

worlhip required to be performed to images, vie,
proceflions, genufleftions, thurifications, and dtef-

Dryden.

To abnegate

4.

;

to difown.

unto you, left you
It (hall be therefore a witnefs
««''^- *7-

deny your Cod.

J'fi-

To renounce; to difregard

5.

;

to

treat

blance.

The lie'.t fijn and fruit oi denying ourfelres, is
Sfruii.
mercy to others.
Whin St. Paul fays, If in this life only wc have
tniferable
hope in Chri(», we are of all men moft
in the
he confidcrs Chriftians as dinyin^ themlclves
Chrili.
pleai'ures of this world, for the fake of
Al'ertury.

DEOBSTRUCT. -r. a.

To clctr from impediments;

to free

from fueh things as hinder a

paflfage.
It

a lingular

i<

He did unwilling worlhip to the faint
That on his (hieid defaiutcd he did fee.

good wound-herb, ufeful for

Such ladies fair would I defoint

To DEPA'RT. -v. n. [depart, French.]
To go away from a place : withy/-»«
1
before the thing left.

When the people dtfarted avray, Sufannah went

The .1

1

till

He faid unto him, go in peace ; fo he drfeuried
from him a little way.

was feven fcore, did dtnlife twice ur thrice, calking
Yte^ oil teeth, and others coming in their pU>c.
Ba.ftt.

Denti'tiom. «./. [Jeniitio,
1.

2.

Latin.]

A medicine that has the power to rcfolw vifciditics, or to open by any
means the animal paffages.
.'Ml

deokftment, reAr!>uthni.t tn Alimemt.

ro,cs are attenuating

ar.d

folving vilcid fubftinccs.
The ad of breeding the teeth.
The time at which children's teeth are De'odand. n.f. [Deo dnitdum, Latin.] A
thing given or forfeited to God for the
bred.

?»DENU'D.ATE. 'v. a. [deuMdo, Latin.]
To divert to ftrip to lay naked.
;

;

i Kingi, v. 19.

They defarled <\iuck\y fr>m the fcpulchre, with
fear and great joy, and did run to bring his difciMat. xxviii.

ples word.

He, which hath no (Jomach to this fi,iht.
Let him depart ; his palfport (hall be made.

Ariulhnot en Diet.

a free pallage into the blood.

Sujan, vii.

into her garden.

Shake/peart.

To have the teeth renewed. Not in ufc. Deo'bstruent. n.f. [deobjhuens, Lat.]
Ihc
wh.j i.»eJ
cnintefs 01 P. f nouO,

Cayt

In roundelay, or fonnct quaint.

^

Mere'! Antidote ngainjl jliteijm.

Such as carry oflfthe fjeces and mucus, deoljIruH
the mouth of the lattcals, fo as t!.e chyle may hive

Sftnfert

To defcribe.

a.

[deohjhuo,

Latin.]

deahpruHmg tiic pores of the body.

StiUingfteet.

cuUtions.

To Depa'int. -v. a. [depeint, French.]
pifture ; to defcribe by colours ;
I . To
to paint ; to fhew by a painted refem-

as foreign or not belonging to one.

To

Harvey.

purgative apozem.

Ah, chatmini; fair, faid I,

Sftflalor, ti" 415.

Denticula'tion. n.f. [ ife/ilicula(ui,
Latin.]
The ft.ite of being fet with

Though the grolTer parts be excluded again, yet
are the dilToluble parts extracted, whereby it becomes efi'etlual \a det/ffilatiom.

How long can you my bVifs and yours deny T

jycodivarii,

by graceful prnjeflions.

paffages.

Grtj/fs.

Great nature cries— rfiiiy not.

Two fma I black and (hining pieces feem, bj
the (hape, to have been formed in the fliell of a

DENrirLL/. n.f. [Italian.] Modillons.
The m»di:l ns, or dtnldii, make a noble (how

D

and effilo,

[de

Latin.] To deobftruft j to clear a paffage ; to free from obllruftions.
E O P P I L a't ion. n.f. [ from deoppilate.']
The aft of clearing obllruftions ; the
removal of whatever obllrufts the vital

laughed not ; for (he

refufej not to grant.

fliell-fi(h.

dfnt.jt.

I

Hath an afpcS of interceflion, which

Holdtr.

/ A fmall

To

3.

;

lingua-</f/if<i/j.

C^rgrme.
^

He thit proclaims any threat.
He that lays an information againft an-

1.

Bacen.

which guttural.

law, as executer in this cafe, to iec the
price of thefe diftributed to the poor.
Cowel/.

commit inylelf to

Latin.

Tlie Hebrews have afligned which letters arc
labial, which denial, and

God, yet it is forfeited to tht king by

^

Denuncia'tor. n.f. [from denuncto, To DEOTPILATE. t. a.

prefs their fiits together ;

1.

the Jews, that, if they believe not,
their fins: di I they """/"j'
.

The air within the veffels being of a Icfs dcnftij,

3.

tells

Ihall die in

'"^^
thofe denurcielms ?
notwichftandMidft of thefe demnciationt, and

2.

DE'NTAL. adj. [dintalis, Latin.]

diftributcd to the poor, for an expiation

of this dreadful event, thouph occafioned by unrealbnable, fenfelcfs, and dead
creatures : and though this \>e given to

left at

compaftnefs ; clofe adhefion, or
near approach, of parts.

jirtuihmt en Alltn^jiH.

tree ; in thefe cafes the horfe, the cartwheel, cart, and horfes, and the tree,
arc to be given to God ; that is, fold and

the war
In a dir^vmiatkn or indiflion of a war,
place of the quarrel, but is
is not confined to the
Baccn.
large.

iiefs ;

the outward air would
and, being of a greater dmfiy, would expand them
to as to endanger the life o( the animal.

,

a publick me-

clamation of a threat ;
nace.

ftiould fall fo as the cart -.vhtels, by

running over him, fliould jaG him to
a tree,
death ; if one (hould be feh!
and giving warning to co.- aany by,
when the tree was near falluig, to look
to themfelves, and any of ihcm flioulJ
neverthelefs be flain by the fall of the

;

Clofe-

Whilit the dcniirt of metals, gold, if foliated,
is tranfpaient, and all met lis become tranfpareiu
if dilfolved in roenlVniums, or viti i<ied, the opacity
«f wl»ite metals arifeth not from their dtnfity abnc.

Sharfi Surgery.

tiudid, to' ftew the mufcle.

Denuncia'tion. »./. [denunciatio, Lathe protin.] The aft of denouncing

/.«*«.

A barbarous term

a vine-branch o(

maturity.
the grapes'wiU never come to

The eve, with the (kin of the eye-iiJ, is dt-

die*, as met lis, (lone, glifs i

In the air the higher you go, the Icfs it is comrrelfed, and confe<]uently the Icfs J^vfe it is j and
'fj the upper part is exceedingly thinner than the

it,

obtained, unlefs we would
ourfclf of all force ti defend us. Clarnd-^n-

d:r.:,de

and they ate longer
Bacon*
^n heating than fofter bodies.

To

Not a treaty can be

The caufe of cold is the dcnfity o( the holy;
for ill dtjtft bodies are colder than moft other bo-

tv.a.

the fault of

as, if a hcrfe

T'oDENtj'uE. v. a. [</r««//i>, Latin.]
diveft.
ftiip ; to make naked ; to

ing ("mail jnierftices between the conftituent particles.

.

any reafonable creature;

Ihould ftrike his keeper, and C< kill
him ; if a man, in driving a cart, and

Clofc ;
compad ; approaching to foiidit)' ; hav-

lower part which we breathe.

to a violent end, without

Denuda'tion.
The aft of ftripping, or making naked.

DENSE, mlj. [Hin/u!, Latin.]

To D s' N s H I R B

D E P

'

with prcfcnts, (/rfcfci/out
Knolhs.
of th.lt Hay.
And coulJft thou leaTC me, cruel, thus alone ?
BarbnroflTa, appeafed

Not one kind kifs from a deftirting frn

!

Dryden.
No lonit, no laft adieu
2. To defift from a praftice.
He cleaved unto ihi: liiis of Jeroboam, he de!

parted nor therdroro.

3.

i f^mg', ii'. J.

To be loft; to perifh.

wrath, in cafe any m:s-

The good departed away, and the evil abode ftill.

tortune, by which any Chriftian comes

a EJd. iii.

p.itityiiig

his

4.

To

To

4.

They keep their cattle, and live themfclves, in
bodies pafturing upon the mountains, and remov-

apoftatife.
In tranfgreflirg and lying ajainft the Lord, and

Latin.]

His majefty prevailed not with any of them to
dtpart from the moll unicafonable of all their de-

To die } to deceafe

;

To make poor

.

5

a.

In all forts of reafoning, the connexion and defendiime of ideas Ihould be followed; till the mind
is brought to the fource on which it bcnttomi.

[depaupero,

toimpoverilh ;

Locks*

bear large grain.

Morihscr.

tious humours, dfp^^uptmte the b'cod.

C^TT. iii. 5. 18.

Lord, row lettcft thou thy fervant depart in peace,
Lukt, xxix.
accortilng to thy word.
As youwifli Chriftian peace to fouls dtfarted.
poor
people's
friend.
Shaktjpcerc.
Stand thcfe

Latin.]
To divide; to feparatc
a chymical term.
tier,

Arhuthnct.

Depe'ctiblei adj. [from defeSo, Latin.]
Tough ; clammy ; tenacious ; capable
It may be alfo, that

Never was there a prince bereaved of his deptr.dcndc! by his council, except where there hath
been either an over-greatnefs in one counfellor,

fome bodies have a kind of

lentor, and arc <>( .1 nnore dcftiiij?lc nature than oil,

or an ovrr-llriti combination in divers,

as we fee it evident in coloration ; for a fmall
quantity of fafj'ron will Cindt more than a very
great quantity of br^fil or wine.
B,icin.

:

,

feijucntly dependarteics ; or dcfccnd

Reliance ;

1.

When your brave father brcath'd his lateA^afp,
Tidings, as fwiftly as the pofi could i u'n,'
Were broaght me of your lols .i.-id Ms dif»Tt.
SiiSkcffiarci Utnry VI.
[With chymlils.]
named, becaufe the

An

operation fq
particles of filver
are d parted or divided from gold, or
other metal, when they were before
melted together in the fame mafs, and
could not be feparated any other way.

3.

ternal caufe ; to live fubjeft to the will

of others

Depa'rtment. n. J. \departerrunt

We work by wit and not by witchcraft

the

moll confiderable was the Alexandrian fleet, and
the fecond was the African,
jirLulbnot.

Our frailty can fuftain, thy tiding* bring;

'

Diparturt from this hippy plicc.
Milirn.
They wrrc frcn rot enly ail the whil^ our Saviour was upcn earth, bot furvivcd alter b\^d fvrlurr out of this world.
^Jd.fi,ii,

;

wiqi
(

The fear of the Lord, and dtparturefr'jtn evil,
are phr:iff5 of lite importance.

Dtp a's cent.

a(!j^

[

:

Tillafi^.

f
[from drpafccr,
•

a.

Latin.] To eat up;' to conftime by feeding upon it,
I

Vol. I.

:

'

ileftr^edg^Vf,..

.

...

..'.ji

^, '[.,..

1
,

;

a

perfon

Sbakefpeare,
a de-

recommended

amy or ency, as the authors intended to
derive them from the Latin or French.]

A thing or perfon at the difpofal "or

1

difcretion of another,
We invade the rights of our neighbours, not
ujion account of covetoufnefs, but of dominion,

we may create deper.denan.
Co'lUr en Bride*
State of being fubordinatc, or fubjeft in
fome degree to the difcretion of another ; the contrary to fovereignty,
,';'j
Let.rae report to him
Your fwcet dependency, and you (bnli find

tliat

2.

'

•

A Mnq'ifror that will pray in aid for kindnef;.
Where

\\t:

for gr.icc is kneel'd to.

'

Shakcjpeare.

At their f'tting out they muft have their commifiion, or letters patent, from the king, tliat fo

Something hanging upon another.
Lik.

a lix-clerk

duke himfelf

others of the fame termination, are indifferently written with ance or eticet

porter.
2.

the

Depe'ndence. In-f- [from dependo, Lat.
Depe'n dencv. J This word, with many

'Stoi/f.

DePe'nB ANCE. 7
,'rr _ J» J^
D . P e'n U A N C V. r;-^ ^C'^""''''''^""'-^
1. The ftateof hfinging dowtl fron< a fup-

in

penJant upon him, who paid fix' thoufand pounds
reidy money.
Clarcndtn,
His dependants fliall quickly become his profelytcs.
Soulbt

I am a ftrnngcrro your cliira^c^r, fnrtherihijn
Aiiommoh fame reports cliero, wbich'.ii riot t> lie

dcpafctnsi Lia'tin.n

Feeding.

To Dei'a'stuhe. y.

'

For

C/arrndm.

,

.V/ini-J.

-

'

But if you 'tc rough, and ufe him like a d i;,
i'f^/wi^ i,/w« it— he'll remain iiicog.
Aditifor.

i

as

alf 1, and your daughter.

He iclolved no more to depend vpkm i^feotoe, or

prefent ftate of ex»4l*ncc,
Happy Wis tiicir g' od pjincc in his timely diftrii're, which bairod hMlfr^im the knowlcJ_<c of

One

A great abatement of kindnefs appears as well in
the general dependants,

certain of.
to provoke the other.

Hmkert
[^(rom depend.]

tion of another ; a retainer.

BiUort.

6:Ta''Diff.KOup?n. To rely on; to truft
to ; to reft upon with confidence
to be

Death ; deceafe ; the aft of leaving the

an abandoning :

To be in fufpenfe ; to be yet undetermined.

ti./.

who lives in fubjeftion, or at the difcrc-

Th'- iiiJge corrupt, tfie long d:pn:dihg caufe,
A.ni doubtful ifluc of mifconlhoed laws.
Prior.

Of forrnw, and dejcftion, and dcfpiir,

;

On God, as the moft high, all inferior caufesYit

Depe'ndant.

pc/idiag, in any court of juiiicc.

Wbat beli.le?

Relating to fomething previous.
In the power of another.
the world are d/fendatit,

to

By no means be you perfuaded to intcrpoii:
yourfelf in any caufe diftn'l':i:g, or like, to be di-

Unil fcem fo ignorant, we'll foicc it from thee
By a Iharp torture.
Staktfj-iJrt.

A forfakiag

3.

;

5.

For thee, fellow.

Locket

Hanging down.

2.

the jultice and fidelity, the temperance and charity, of its members.
Rogers.

A going away.

from.

triangle, gratitude, murder.

Depe'ndant. adj. [{rom depend,]

Of fifty to difquantity your train
And the remainJers, that Ihall ftill depend.
To be fnch men as may hef^rt your age.
Shiik.
4. To be connefted with any thing, as
with its caufe, or fomething previous.
The peace and hapjincti of a (ocjcty deperd on

Who needs muft know of her drparlUr:, and

3.

;

retain to others.
Be then defir'd

Depa'rture. n.f. [iiom depart.]

his Ion's mifcrii-<.

by thcmlclves, but are confidcred as deprrulencici on, or affeflions of, fubftances ; fuch arc the ideas fignified by the words
fition of fubfifting

1

Sbakcfpiarc.

Never be witliout money, nor difenj upit: the
curtcfy of others, wliich may fail at a pinch. Bac.

Fr.]

,

fea, bad their fcveral ilations and dtparlmmii :

s.

with upon.

3. To be in a Hate of depcndance

Separate allotment ; province or bufinefs afligned to a particular perfon : a
French term.
The Roman fleets, during thc'r command at

I.

:

And wit diptndi on dilatory time.

One

[from depart.]
that refines metals by feparation.
n. f.

Modes I call fuch complex ideas, which, hoW'
them the fuppo-

ever compounded, contain not in

Utoift.

The direful mottftcr was. afar delcried.

Baion't

fart,

elfe.

Two bleeding babes dcfendtr.g at her fide.
Pcfi.
2. To be in a Hate influenced by fome ex-

Dia,
The chymifts have a liquor called water of di.

Depa'rter.

Accident ; that of which the cxiftence
prefuppofes the exiftence of fomething

7.

Srf (Irong, that from the- lower end.

They fay, all human things d-'ptnd,

Uoskxr,

They (Icpt in peace by night.
Secure of bread, as of returning light
And with fuch firm depcndance on the day.
That need grew pamper'd, and forgot to pray,
DrydtK,

To hang from,
Long iiicles ^e^/n/, and crackling lounds are heard.
Vrydm.
From gilded roofs depending lamps difplay
Noaurnal beams, that emulate the day. Drydin.
There is a chain let down ftom Jove,

truft ;

conceit,

Fr'^m the frfren beard

Death,

Swift,

confidence.
Their dtf^-vdiincirs on him were drowned in this

:

Sk'aktjftare.

from ancellors

who have left them great inheritances.
6.

In eitlier check dijriiiflen lively here.
Depa'rt. »./ [///f/cr/, French.]
Sptnf.r.
The aft of going, away now departure. To DF.PE'ND. -v. n. [dependio, Latin.]
1
1 had in cha'^t, ai n-.y d'^ari from France,

Ba,ttt.

The fecond natural divifion of power, is of fuch
men who have acquired large pofTelTions and con-

To Depe'inct.

v. a. [^depeindre, Fr.]
To depaint ; to paint ; to defcribe in
colours.
A word of Spea/er.
The red rofc meJlied with the white y fere.

The things or perfons of which any
man has the dominion or difpofal.

5.

of being extended.

to leave ;

You 've had difpatch in piirate by the conful
You are will'd by him thit eveaing
Bin Jimftin,
To difari Rome,
To Pepa'hT' "V. a. [parlir, French; par-

2.

State of being at the difpofal or under
the fovereignty of another: with upon.
Every moment we feel our depertdantrupon God,
and find that wx can neither be happy without
him, nor think ourfelvesfo.
T'dktjon.

4.

Great evacuations, which carry oft" the nutri-

As iiei foul was in dcfarling ; for flie died,

To marry princcfs Margaret.

Concatenation ; connexion j relation of
one thing to another.

Liming docs not dipavperate i the grotmd will
laft long, and

to leave the world.

To Depar't. f. a. To quit ;
Not in ufe.
to retire from.

"J.

to confume.

CiamJ-.n,

mandii

6.

i

ing ftill to frelh land, as they hnvc depafiund the
former.
Sptnfir.

To Depau'perate.

To defift from a refelution or opinion.

5.

D E P

D E P

D E P
defert ; to revolt ; to fall away ; to

may acknowledge
crown of Engl.ind.
they

:nding light,
i.ipcs they ihoWj

m

'iic

bougii.

'

VryJi-n.

3.

their dependency

ufUA the
Baenv,

That which is not principal ; that which
is

fubordinate.

3S

We

When the diRraaions of a tumuU are fenfibl)

Wt fpejk of the fuhlu««Ty wcrW», tMs *»itb,
acd its JrpeaJndtt, which tofe out of » tbaos
about fix thoufand ytari ago.

_

As

DEPi'LATORy. n./.

1

toolc p'icjfjn: to trace outtlie caufc of cflcfts,
uj.on anotlier in

liyriut'i TUii)'-

the vifiblc creation.

deftroy inhabited countries.

adj.

Where is this viper.
That would depifutste the citj, and
Be every man tiimfejf?

and /»y«o, Latin.]

[</«

ShoUffeart.
He turned his arms upon unirmed and anpMvided people, to fpoil only tnd dif^Jmhit, contrary
to the laws both of war and peace.
Banti'i Henry VII.
A land exhaufted to the laft remains,
Drydert.
Dtp'4>uhtfd towns and driven plains.
Grim death, in different Ihapes,
Pe^tpulaiei the nations; thoufands fall

Brmn.

or hair.

Depi-anta'tiok. «./. [deplanto, Lat.]
The ad of uking plants up from the

6. Trull ; reliance ; confidence.

The cipeftation of the pcrformanccof our Jefire,
and
is thit vtc <M.ikfend(tice uiwn him for liclp

Oia.
bed.
Depi.e'tion. »./. [depko, dephtus, Lat.]

The aft of emptying.

Siillm^flcri.

afiirtance.

;

and /(Vw, Lat.]

Without hair.
This animal is a kind of lizard, or quadruped
corticated and defiUm ; that is, without wool, furr,

Reladon of any ihing to3.ncther, as of
«R efted to its caufe,
and the tttft-miciicc of one tiling

[de

mination, are written with ent or ant,
as ihey are fuppofed to flow from the
Latin or Frencn.] Hanging down.

D^popula'tion. »./. [horn depopulate.']
The aft of unpeopling ; havock ; wafte ;

jiihuibn^ji

exjiand itfelf.

-^tftruftion of mankind.

Deplo'rabi.b. ff/^". [(romdephro, Latin.]
that which demands or
I. Lamentable;

In the time of Charles the Great, and long
fince, the whole furs in the tails were JtpenJt^nt
tut now that falhion is left, and the fpots only

PtacbDmworn, without the tails.
Depe'ndent. »./. [from aV/fWw/, Lat.]
One fubordinate ; one at the difcretion

caufes lamentation ; ^mal ;

'

mitous ; miferable ; hopekfj.

This was the dtfbrallc condition to which the
Clarcrd^.
king was reduced.
The bill, of all weapons, givei the rood ghiftly j Difipuhtitn.
Ttmple. I Depopula'tor.
and depkrable wounds.
It will be confidered

in

Sviifi.

We are indigent, dcfencelcfs beings j the creaand the Jifendcntt of his proRcgen.

lar fenfe, ufed for contemptible ; defpi-

vidence.

cable

Depe'kder. n. /. [from JeptuJ.] A dependent ; one that repofes on the kindnefs or power of another.
What (halt thou expefl,

To be drfcndtr on a thing that leans ? Sbakefftari.

Depbrdi'Tiok.

[from deperdit us,

/.

ti.

:

A difpeopler

how deplorable a Hate

2. It is fometimes, in a more lax and jocii-

tures of his power,

How didft thou grieve then, Adam

Lofs ; deftruftion.

in
It may be unjull to place all efficacy of gold

the non-omiffion of weights, or JtfcrMiim of any
Bntvif.
pofiderous- particles.

D E P H L E c M a't

K »./.
.

from dephlegm.]

To carry

;

ble flupidity.

Notwithltanding

their talk of reafon

all

[deploratus,

adj.
;

In gait furpafs'd, and goddefs-like ^<;^rf. Milton*
Of middle age one rifing, eminent
In wife deport, fpake much of right and wrnng.
Milren.

and

Deporta'tion. n.f. [deportatio, Latin.]

Latin.]

hopelefs.

Tranfportation ; exile into a remote
part of the dominion, with prohibition
to change the place of refidence.
2. Exile in general.
1

aft of deploring, or of lamenting.

;

to bemoan ; to exprefs forrow.
But chafte Diana, who his death deplored.
With vEfculapian herbs his life reftor'd. Pryden.

An abjuration, which is a deportation (at ever
into a foreign land, was anciently with us a civil
death.

[

A pluming, or plucking off the feathers.
A fwelling of the eye2. [In furgery.]

ti.f.

[from dephlcgm.']

or aqueous matter.

The proportion betwixt the coralline folution
sod the f|)i.-it of wine, depends fo much upon the
fttcngth of the former liquor, and the defhltgmidrfjs of the latter, that it is fcarct pofliblc to deter-

mine generally and exactly what quantity of each
Boyle.
ought to be taken.
To- Depi'ct. v. a. [depinge, dipiilum,

accompanied with the fall of the
Phillips.
hairs from the eyebrows.
To DEPLU'ME. -v. a. [de Zini. pluma , Lalids,

tin.]

I will but fwei-p the way with a few notes touching the duke'sownrf.^oxmfn/ in that ifland. Ifoltoii^

The cowards of Lacedemon dcfllird upon their
the rood terrible beafts tbcy could imagine.

To defcribe
the mind.

;

behaviour.

difficulties, and he lived and died in a great ftation.

To DEPO'SE. v. a. [depono, Latin.]
1

[depono, Latin.]

To lay down

to lodge ; to let fall.
advanced one jot further
into the fea, nor its furface raifed by additional
mud depoftd upon it.by the yearly inundations of
ffoodmard.
the Nile.

To degrade from .a throne or high na-

2.
.

venture,

tion.

Fi^, of the king : what (hall of him become }

—The duke yet lives that Henry fliall depefe.

i

As much, as any caufe I've known.

to reprefent

an aftion to

Sbtiefftaru

May your fick fame dill languilh till it die ;

Hudibras.

Then, as the greated curfe that I can give,
Dryden,
Unpitied be dipos'd, and after live.
Depcfed confuls, and captive princes, might have
Taller.
preceded him.

Depo'nent. n.f. [from depono, 'LtAiTi.]
I. One that depofes his tefUmony in a
z.

;

Its ihores are neither

To lay down as a pledge or fecurity.
2. To rifque upon the fuccefs of an ad-

Taykr.

2.

;

The coldnefs of his temper, and the gravity of
his depntment, carried him fafe through many

1

to portray ; to reprefent in

colours.
fiiieldt

Demeanour

2.

On this I would depone
;

manner of

management;

afting.

To ftrip of its feathers.

To DEPO'NE. f. a.

.JLatJn.]

To paint

Conduft ;

1.

Dryden.

from deplore."] A laa mourner ; one that laments.

Deplo'rer. »./.

-^/I'ffe-

Depo'rtmen T. n.f. [deport ement, Fr.]

If Arcitc thus deplore

His fiiffcrings, yet Palcmon fuffers more.

De-

1.

The quality of being freed from phleg.n

1

it is

She Delia's felf

To DEPLO'RE. 'V. a. [deploro, Latin.] To
lament ; to bewail ; to wail to mourn ;

menter ;

:

deportment.

We have fametimcs taken fpirit of fait, and Dep LU M a'i ION. n.f. [deplumatio, Latin.]
Bylt-

'-

[deporter, French.]

meanour ; grace of attitude ; behaviour ;

philofophy, Gud knows, they ate dcphrably GranScutb.
gers to them.

pid matter.

^E p H le'c M ED N ESS.

a.

Let an ambalVadbr dtport himfclf in the TOo(t
Pcpc.

Diii.
mifery ; hopeleflnefs.
Deplo'rabi, y. adv. [from deplorable.]
Lamentably ; miferably ; hopelefsly
often in a fcnfe of contempt.

eoyli.

carefully AefbUgmid it.

<!/.

to demean ; to behave

Deplo'rableness. n.f. [from deploragraceful manner before a prince.
The llate of being deplorable; Depo'rt. n.f. [from the verb.]
ble.']

phlegm any fpirituous fluid by reThe cafe is then mod deplorale, when reward
peaed dilUUation, till it is at length
VEftrange.
goes over to tlie wrong fide.
^hiry. Deplo.ra'tion. n.f. [from deplore.] The
left all behind.

l-v. a. [dephlegro DEPHLE'GM.
To DEPHLE'GMATE. J mo, low Lat.]
To clear from phlegm, or aqueous infi-

/ [from depopulate.]

ufed only with the reciprocal pronoun.

the

In divers cafes it is not enough to feparate the
aqueous parts by Jefhlcgaaihn ; for fonie liquors
contain alfo an unfufpctlcd quantity of fmall corpafcles, of fomcwhat an earthy nature, which,
being aflbciated with the falinc ones, do cl<^ and
blunt them, and thereby weaken their afliviiy.

Philips.

«.

a deftroyer of mankind ;

;

To DEPO'RT.

as, deplorable nonfenfe ; deplora-

f
Deplo'rate.
An operation which takes away from
Lamentable
1

to behold

a wafter of inhabited countries.

:

Lajfin.]

!

The end of all thy offspring, end fo fad,
Pifopublun ! Thee another Auod,
Ot t-ar« and fortow a flood, thee alfo drown'd.
Aiilton.
And funk thee as thy fons.
Remote thou bear'll the dire efTeO of war,

fad ; cala-

learning lies in that kingdom.

or difpofal of another.

Philips.

Kis viAims.

Abrtincme and a llender diet attenuates, bccauf;
dtpUtm of the vefleb gives room to the fluid to

Dspe'noent. adj. [dependdn, hz.X.n\.
This, as many other words of Hi<e ter-

darkens Latin Grammar.

confefs.

ToDEPO'PULATE.i;. a. [depepu/cr, LaTo unpeople; to lay wafte to
tin.]

An application ufed to take away hair.
De'pilous.

Hbakijliin

nf'er i hear-l in rnadnefs.

iierally fignify aftion only ; is, fdtect ,.l

and emery occurrence art (o
preknteii to your view, th«C while yoo read, you
Feller.
feem indeed to fee them.

dejitlcd, every olijcft

£urnei'x Tteery.

4. Concatenation; connexion; rifeofconfequcnts from premifes.
Her midncfs hath the oddtft frawt of fcnfe }
Such 1 -difKnttemy of thing on thing,
5.

D E P

D E P

D E P

courtof juftice; an evidence ; awitnefs.
[In grammar.] Such verbs as have no
aftive voi«e are called depomnts, and ge-

3.

To take away ; to divell

5

to fttip of:

not in ufe.

Yen

D E P

D E P
Yoo may my glory and my ftate icfoji.
But not my griefs; ftillam Ikingot'tbofe.

To give teilimony

Shak-

corruption.
The three forms of government have their fe-

and are fubjedl to their feveral
howcTCr, few Jlates are ruined by
defe£l in their inilitution, but generally by corruption of manners.
Siiifr.
veral pcrfedlions,
depra'vations ;

TothlU-ftreet, to dcf<ife the yearly rent or valuation

The ftate of being made badj dege-

2.

To examine any one on his oatli. Not

J.

waj ftiU difcontent, being troubled that the occafioii
of breaking of the truce ftiould grow from his men,
fent many humble and deprecatory letters to the
Scottifli king to appeafe him.
Bacon.

aft of corrupting ;

;

of lands lying in the north, or other r«mote part of
Bacon.
the realm.

Bijhop Fox underftanding that the Scotti/h king

.

to atteft.
'Twas he thar made you to de^Je ;
Your oath, my lord, is vain and frivolous. Sbahefp.
Itwras ufualforhim that dwelt in Southwark, or

4.

D E P

Deprava'tion. It./. [Afravaiio, Lat.]
1
The aft of making any thing bad ; the

neracy ; depravity.

Depreca'tor. a. /. \deprecaior, Lat.J
One that averts evil by petition.
To DEPRE'CI ATE. •v. a. [depreiiare, Lat.]

To bring a thing down to a lower price.
To undervalue.

1

2.

We have a catalogue of the blackeft fins that

now in ufe.
According to our law,

their converfations, they

ble of committing.

and mifreprefent.

Shakef^are,

Dtfiofthim in the jullicc of his caufc.

TbDepo'se. 1-. n. To bear witne{s.

They prefumcd upon that mercy, which, in all

human nature, in its higheft drpravaiiortf is capaSouth.

in ufe.

Love ftraight ilood up and defefed, a lye could
Sidnty.
not come from the mouth uf Zelmanc.

Addiian,

As there are none more ambitious of fame, than
thofe who are coiners in poetry, it is very natural iot

Defamation ; cenfure : a fenfe not now

3.

endeavour to diprtcmte

fuch as have not fuccceded in

Stubborn criticks are apt, without a theme
For difra-vaiior, to fquarc all the fex.
Shah/p,

it

to depreciate the

works of thofe who have.

Spedator-.'

Depo'sitarv. «./. [defojitarius, Latin.]
roDEPRA'VE. -v. a. [depra'vo, Lat.] To re DE'PRED ATE. -v. a. [depresdari, Lat.J.
One with whom any thing is lodged in
I. To rob ; to pillage.
vitiate
to corrupt
to contaminate.
;

;

truft.

We admire the providence of God in the con-

I gave you all.

^Made you my guardians, my dep9Jitarles

;

But kept a refcrvjtion, to be foUow'd
Shakiffiare,
"With fuch a number.

tinuance of fcripture, notwithftanding the endeavours of infidels to abollOi, and the fraudulence of
h^reticks to deprave, the fame,
Hochr.
Who lives that 's not depra-ved, or depravet ?

Te DEPO'SITE. -v. a. [tlefoJ!lum, Latin.]
To lay up to lodge in any place.
1
.

Shakejfettri.

But from me what can proceed
But all corrupt, both mind and will deprav'd f

;

The <agle got leave here to defKJiu her eggs*

Depra'veoness. n.f. [from depra<ve.'\

accels to the aliment within them, Rcdi diligently

Corruption ; taint ; contamination ; vi-

oliferveJ, that no other fpccies were produced, but

tiated ftate.
What fins do you mean ? Our original depratiedtiefs, and pronencfs of our eternal part to all evil.

of fuch as he faw go in and feed, unAdrptifitt their
eggs there, which they would readily do in all puBcTtitrj.

Sfroll.

mtntt of fancy.

fafcination, fo endeared themfelves.

To DE'PRECATE. t/. a.
1
To beg off ; to pray deliverance from ;
to avert by prayer.

Decay cfP'uty.

Depo'site. n.f.

Latin.]

In diprecating of evil, we make an humble ackno< • igment of guilt, and of God's jufticc in

a pawn ;

a thing given as

chaftiling,

3.

Marfeilles, and fairly lc(t

it

2.

famt, you will find diem ftrong on their fidr.

[In canon law.]

Depofition properly
depriving of a man of

his clerical orders.

Depo'sitorv.

Depreca'tion. «. /. [drprecatio,

J^yl'ffe'i

n./. [from drpofite.]

place where any thing

is

lodged.

pofitary is properly ufed of perfons,

The
De
and

defojitory oi fUcti ;

but in the following
example they are confounded.

The Jews themfelves arc the drficjitcrut of all
the prophecies which tend

w their own confufion.
'AjdlfiV.

of.

not to the eye ; but yet they are to be depreherdtJ
Bacon.
by experience.

Prior.

Lat.]

De P R E H e'n
1 .

with leave of fpecch implor'd

2.

And humble diprecaiion, thus replied.

Partrgoii.

z.

b I. e. adj. [from deprehend.]
difco-

vercd.

Dicl.

Deprehe'nsible.vess. n.f,

a deprecation for the other.

2. Intelligiblcnefs ;

Bro^on.

1

petitioning.

An excufing

C.ipablenefs of being caught.
eaftnefs to

be under-

ftood.
(

a begging pardon for.
De'prec ATIVE. \adj. \itQ-s(\ deprec ate.
De'precatorv. J That ferves to deprecate ; apologetick ; lending to avert
3.

I

That may be caught.
That may be apprehended, er

Milton.
Sternutation they generally conceived to be a
good fign, or a bad one; and fo, upon this motion,
they commonly ufed a gratulaiion fur the one, and

Intreaty ;

to

The motions of the minute parts of bodies,
which do fo great cffefts, are invifiblc, and incur

Prayer againft evil.
I,

More,

To difcover ; to find out a thing;

come to the knowledge or underftanding

Thofe darts, whofe points make gods a, lore

I.

fignifies a folemn

importm-e *

2.

At leni;'h he fets
His mighr, and diprccatc his power.

Hooker,

Wlio can believe men upon their own authority,
that are once depreht*did in io grofs and impious an

To implore mercy of: this is not pro-

Sir K, D'lghy.

fovercignty.

that impiety, was held in ward.

per.

A wi:ncfs is obliged to fwcar, othcrwife hi^ dt.
ffimn is not valid..
/lyliffe'i Panrgm.
2. The aft of degrading a prince from

To catch one ; to take unawares ; to
take in the faft.
That wretched creature, being deprehetidcd in

1 .

The judgment* which we vrould deprecate arc

The aft of giving publick teftimony,.
If you will enamine the veracity nf the fathers
by thofe circumSances ufually confidered in depo-

the

Bticrv.

7'oDEPREHE'ND. -v. a. [dcprehendcLa.]

Grnu.

not removed.
Umitlridge.
'Vhe luliau entered them in his prayer : amongft
the tliree evils he petitioned to be delivered from,
he might have deprtcattd greater evils.
Baker's Rtjii^ior.s on I.tarnlng.

Deposi'tion. n.f. [from depojltio, Lat.]

3.

We

which are in all books j thefe we (all depredators.

m

they had the other day the Valtoline, and now
have put it in drpofiii.
Bacan.

1.

clemency in fparing,

reported, that the fhrub called cur Lady's

is a kiiid of briony, and colcworts, fet
near together, one or both will die : the caufe is^
for that they be both great depredators of the earth*
and one of them ftarvcth the other.
Bacon,
have three that colledl the experiments,

Poverty indeed,
all its degrees, men are cafily
pcrfuadcd to deprecate frcm themfelves.
Rogers.

The ftate of a thing pawned or pledged.
They had fince

as well as

guilty.

a fecurity.

is

Seal, which

ruption ; a vitiated ftate.

care of another.
;

A robber ; a devourer.

.

[^Jefojitum,

Any thing committed to the truft and

A pledge

Depreda'tor. n.f. \depretdator , Lat.]
it

Depra'vity. n.f. [from i/f/rai/*.] Cor-

2.

nothing more vifible than in the fudJcn difcharge or vanishing of a little cloud of breath, or
vapour, from glafs, or the blade of a fword, or any
fuch poliihcd budy.
Bacon,
in

rupter ; he that caufes depravity.

The difficulty will be to perfuade the dcfoJiiUg
of thofe lulls, which hive, by I know not what

1.

ture, and verlion of the fame into air, appeareth

Depr a'ver. n.f. [from depra've.'] A cor-

To lay afxde.

4-

Brown.

Voracity; wafte.
The fpeedy depredation of air upon watry moif-

z.

He maketh men believe, that apparitions are
either deceptions of fight, or melancholy diprave-

not to defujite them with him, in hopes of meriting

BacotJ.

a fpoiling.
;
Commililoners were appointed to determine all
matters of piracy and depredations between the fuUjefts of both kingdoms.
Hay-ward.
The land had never been before fo iitc from
robbcrici. and i/^^re<fd/io«i as through his reign. Wo^.
Were there not one who had faid, Hitherto ihalt
thou come, and no farther ; we might well cxpcft
fuchvicilHtudes, fuchclaihing in nature, and fuch
depredations and changes of fea and land, fyocdiq.

vitiated ftate ; corruption.

God commands us tu return, as to him, to the

apt to be confumed and

A robbing

Hammcnd.

poor, his gifts, out of mete duty and thanlcfulnefs \

by them.

I.

Depra'vement. n./ [from ./^/raw.] A

To lay up as a pledge, or fecurity.
3. To place at intereft.

2.

iefs

Depreda'tion. »./. Idepreedatio, Lit.]

Vrydtn-.

Garth.
earth are defifited.
When vcffeU were open, and the infers had free

trefaction.

and compa6V, and fo

lioaths lawful good| and lawl^fc ill docs crave.

fiiew where the aflies of one of the greatcft poets on

to devour.

the fubftance of the body more foli j

depredated by the fpirits.

A tafte which plenty does deprave,

to

;

It maketh

Milton.

L* EJirange

Dryden wants a poor fquare foot of ftone,

To fpoil

3.

;

DEPREHE'NSlON.w.y; \_deprehenJlo, Lat.]
1

'\

evil by fuppiication.

2.

A catching or taking unawares,
A difcovery.

roDEPRE'SS. 1/. a. [from depnjfas, of
deprimo, Latin.]
3

S 2

1.

To

1,

2,

To prefs or thruft down.
To let fall to let down.

prebend, is deprived, or depofed from
his preferment, for any matter in fafl

The fame thing I h«ve tried by letting a globe

or law.

;

teft,

and raifing or dtfrifing the eye, or otlierwife

moving it, to make the angle of ajud magnitude.
Niiuton.

To humble; todejeft; to fink.

3,

Others deprtf: their own minds, delpond at the
Arft difficulty, and conclude that the making any
progrefs in knowledge is above their capacities.

Latin.]
1. To bereave one of a thing : to take it
away from him : with of.

Goi hath drprived her ^wifdom, neither hath
he imparted t> her underllanding. ycl,xxx\i. 17.
I-Ie lamented the lul's of an excellent fcrrant, and
the horrid manner in which he had been defrivrd

Lctlt.

grow too wife for fo great a pleafurc of life.

c/"him.

it

Depre'ssion. n.f. [depreffio, Lat.]

IVottiK.

them.
_

The finking or falling in of a furface.

z.

Neither can any boalt a knowledge depurate from
the defilemert of a contiary, within thia atmo-

impure part of any thing.
Brimdonc is a mireial body, of fat and inflammnble paics; and this is either uled cruue, and
ciiUiJu/piur viie; ur is of a fadder colour, and,
after depuration, fuch as we have in magdeleuns, or
rolis of a ligliter yellow.

blrrad as one of the principal

and condant ufes of
Boyle,

refpiraticn.

The deanfing of

2.

a wound froin

its

matter.

To Depu're. -v. a. [depurer, Fr.]

Whofe Icaft delight fuificcth to defrivt
Remembrance c/all pains which him oppreft. Sfenf,
4. To put out of an office.

To cleanfe ; to free from impurities.
To purge J to free from fome noxious

1.
2.

quality.

A miniller, def rived lor inconformity, faid, tlut

The beams of light are fuch fabtile bodies, that,

Bro^vn*i fufgetr Mrrcurt*

What hath been birhcrto difcburfed, inclines u<
to look upon the ventilation and depuration of the

to free from.
Mod happy he,

;

Glamitle,

fphere of ri .ih.

Depura'tion. n.f. [depuratio, Lat.]
1
The aQ of feparating the pure from the

without 0/.
From his face I (halTbe hid, dtfr'ro'd

To releafe

3

Pure ; not contaminated.

2.

Ctartndcn.

Mitten.
His blcffcd countenance.
The ghsAs rcjefted, are th' unhappy crew
Dcpr'm^d o/*fepulchres and fun'ral due.
Drjdcn*

The a£l of prefling down.
Bricks of a rcftangular form, if laid one by another in a level row between fupporters fuflaining
the two ends, all the pieces between will neccflarily
fink by their own gravity ; and much more, if
Ihey fufier any dtfrtjfuin by other weight above

rities.

To hinder; to debar from: Milton ufes

2.
Pr'nr,

Cleanfed ; freed from dregs and impa-

1.

Now wretched Oedipus, deprm'd 0/ fight,
Led a long death in everlafting night.
Pefe.

Add*

Pa/Tion can dffttfi or raife

The heavenly, ai the human mind.

De'pwrate. adj. [from the verb.]

PbilUfi.

To DEPRI'VE. V. a. [from di ziAfri-vo,

If vre confiJer how often it breaks the gloom,
which is apt torfrprc/j the mind, with trarfiont unexpected gleams uf joy, one would take care not to

1.

D E P

D E P

D E P

in refpeft of them, even furfaces, that are fenfibly
fmooth, are not exaflly fo : they have their own
degree of roughselis, confiding of little protube-

Depth, n.f. [from deep, of diep, Dutch.]

It produced plants of fuch imp^feftion and
harmful quality, a^ the %vaters of the general flood
could not fo walh out or depure, but that the fame
defefiion hath had continuance in the very gene-

rances and defriff.oni ; and confcqucntly fucli ine-

1.

Deepnefs ; the meafure of any thing
from the furface downwards.
As for men, they had bjiUings in many places

Deputa'tion. n.f [deputation, Fr.
The aft of deputing, or fending away
1

if

at we fee in marble that appears white or black, or

red or blue, even when mod carefully poliftied. Bcylt.

Bacon.

abfolate, but lefs Cafe*
,

[in algebra]

miffion given.

Cut me off the heids

Of all the fav'rites that the ab:c.it king
In deputaticn lef: behind him here.

When he was pcrfonal in the Irilh war.

*Tis only intinitc below.

Deep place

with a fpecial cominUiion.
Vicegerency; the poffeiEonof any com-

2.

Are equally held in6iiite ;
In poetry the height we know,
2.

He

Sivift.

The falfe tides (kim o'er liic cover'd land.
And feamcn with dilfembled dc^tli betray. Dryd.
3. The abyfs ; a gulph of infinite profun-

An oppreflbr.

5.

Depre'ssor. [In anatomy.] A term given
to feveral mufcles of the body, whofe
aftion is to deprefs the parts to which

they adhere.

De'priment. adj. [fTOmJeprimotSfOfde'
frimo, Latin.] An epithet applied to one
of the ftraight mufcles that move the
globe or bull of the eye, its ufe being to

,

The exquifite equilibration of Jll oppofite and
intagonift mufcles is effetled partly by the natural
pofture of the body and the eye, which is the cafe

of the attollent and dtfrimni mufcles.

•uatio,

1.

n. /.

Dtrbam.

[from </ir and /r/"-

Lat.]

The aft of depriving, or taking away
from,

i.

The ftate of lofing.

Fools whofe end is dellrufVian, and eternal JeBrniliy.
frivaiim of being.
Deprivation [inlaw] is when a cler-

gyman,

as a bilhopi p.vfon, vicar,

to

or

;

a.

And Abfaloni faid unto iiim, See thy matters
man depute.i of

And Linus thus, deputed by the re*.
The heroes welcome and their thanks exprefs'd.
R^eomynoTf,

'

A bifliop, by dcputirg a pried or chaplain to ad-

,

miaider the facramcnts, may remove him.
Ayliffe's

Lat.]

A lieutenant

that is
; a viceroy ; one
by a fpecial commiiTion to
govern or aft inftead of another.
He eiercifeth dominion over them as the vice-

1

a'ppointtiJ

gerent and deputy of Almighty God.
Hr.ie's Origin of Mankind.
He was vouched his imn>ediatci/ef wry upon earth,
and viceroy of the creation, and lord lieutenant of
South,
the woild.

Any one that tranfafts buunefs for an-

2.

ing or thrurting away.
Depu'lsory. adj. [from defulfus, Lat.]
Dia.
Putting away ; averting.

other.
Prelhyters, abfcnt through infirmity from their
chur.:hes, niight be faid 10 preach by thofi: </<yatii'j,
who, irvthtir dead, did but read homilies, hooker.

To DE'PURATE. -v. a. [depurer, Fr. from

To purify

A man hath a body, and that body is confined to

'

;

to cleanfe ;

to free any thing from its impurities.
Chemidry enabi ng us to depurate bodies, and in
fome meafuie to analiae them, and take afunJei
their hetcr.)geneou5 parts, in many chemical cxjic.
rimentJ we may, bitter than in others, know what
BrjU.
manner of bodies wt employ.

Parcrgc*.

De'puty. n.f. [depute, Fr. from depu/attu,

to bereave of virgiuity.

depurgo, Lat.]

» Sam,

the king to hear.

[dtpuceler, Fr.]

Dia.
Dbpu'lsion. n.f. [depuljto. Lit.} A beat-

To

arc good and right, but there is no

DEPTHEN.

-v.

[deputer, Fr.]

fend with a fpecial coininiiTion ; to im«
power one to tranlaft inltead of another.

Addij'cn'i IVkig Examiner.

Depth of ez Squadron or Battalion, is the
number of men in the file. Milit. Diiif. a. [dtepen. Dutch.]
To
Diii.
To deepen, or make deeper.
To deflour

pull it downwards.

DepRiva'tion.

elaborate and well-written piece of nonfenfe, than
in the mod abftrufe traft of fchool divinity.

DEPU'TE. <r. a.

To

Abftrufenefs ; obfcurity.
There are greater dtptbt and obfcuritres in an

To Depu'celate.

Shulefp.

moon, but hith de-

Brown*
lunary d:putafior.!.
The authority of confcience dands founded upon
Start,
its vicegerency and (ff^HMficJiUnder God.

1.

2.

looks not below the

figned the regiment of lublunary affairs into fub-

not a (hoal.

;

Ru^eigt,
!

Dryd.

the bringing it into lower and more
Dia.
fimple terms by divifion.
dity.
Depression c/"a Star [with aflronomers]
When he prepared the heavens I was there,
when
he fet a comp.>l's upon the face cf tilt- deptt.
\i the diftance of a ftar from the horizon
Prov. viii. 27.
below, and is meafured by the arch of
The
middle or height of a feafon.
4.
azimuth,
palling
or
circle
the vertical
And in tlie depth of winter, in die night.
through the ftar, intercepted between the
You plough the raging feas to coads unk: « vn,
Diii.
ftar and the horizon.
DenhatH.
The earl of Newcadle, in the depth of winter,
Depre'ssor. n.f. \_defreJJor, Lat.]
tefcued the ci:y of York from the rebels.' Claratd.
He that keeps or preffes down.
is

ration and nature of mankind.

For tho', in nature, depth and height

;

Depression of an Equation

an hundred
Bac:r.

The left to that unhappy region tends,
Which to the dtfttb of Taitarus dcfcends.

•f the trepan j not doubting but a fmall defrefficn
of the bone will either riie, or call off, by the beIVijman.
•eSt of nature.

abafement.
Difrrjjion of the nobility may make a king more

fliould coft

Bacux.
higher than the drptb of the water.
We have large and deep caves of feveral dtpthi
the deeped are funk fix hundred fuihoms.
Bacsn.

If the bone be much deprefl'ed, and the fifl'ure
eonfiderably large, it is then at your choice, whether you will enlarge that filTun:, or continue it for
the evacuation of the matter, and forbear the ufe

The ad of humbling

it

men's lives.

qualities may fumce to give bodies dirtercnt colours,

3.

they deprived him,

a place ; but where friendlhip is, all offices of life
are, as it were, granted to him and his deputy ; for

he may exercife theiti by his friend.
3.

Bacon,

[In law.] One that exercifes any office
or other thing in another man's right,
whofe- forfeiture or mildcmcanour (hall
caufc

DER

D E R
canfe the officer or perfon for whom he
afts to

Me his office.

unfcemlinels, we would be furely as loth as

Phillips.

Tills we affirm of pure golj ;

for that which

is facred and leiigious-?
THUtfon.
T hefe fons, ye gods, who v>frh fliigitious pride
I-.fult my darknefs, and my groans dtridt:
Pcfe.

is

current, «nd pafTfth in Hamp amonpft us, uv rrafan

which

a

is

prcf.-jrtir-n

ot" filvtr

Some. th=t adore Newton for his fluxions, deride

or

copper mixed therewith, is aOually diquaTHiiaud
by fire, and poflibly by frequent extinftion.
Srt.vjn'i Vulvar Errours,
.

DERi'vATtVE.

him for his religion.
I.

A mocker

;

Der: vative. «./. [from the adjeftive.]
the thing or

BerkLy.

Are we grieved with the fcorn and derifar.ai the
profane ?
Thus was the blefled Jefus defpifcd and
rejeftedof men.
Rsgeri.
Vanity is the natural weaknefs of an ambitious

Doth root upon while that the culter rufts
That ihould deracinate fucli favagery. Shekefpeare.

man, which expofes him

j

2.

Toabolifh

;

to deftroy ; to extirpate.

To DERA'IGN. 1
To DERA'IN. J

To prove

1.

-v.

a.

[Ji/rationare. or

Jer. XX. 7.
a fcorn

no more than creditable, and is but a derivative from Honor, which fignifies credit or honour.

when it ik JinigreJ, then fliall the plea p»fs in the
court chriilian, as far fcrth as it ii Jeraigned \n the

Into a dungeon thnift.

A difcharge of profeffion

able by right of defcent or derivation.

a departure

In fomc fliccs the fubilantive Jeraignment is
ufed in the very literal figiiificatlon with the French
Jifrayer, cr difranger ;
that i^, tuning out ot
courfe, difplacin^, 01 fetting out of order; as, deraignmtnt or departure out of religion, and deraign-

1.

When

out of the right way.]
2.

[In grammar.]

To hurt.

Vour loidi.iip here feems to diflike my taking
notice that the derevaticn of the word SubUancc
favours the idea we have of it j and your lordlhip
tells me,

that very little weight

Dereli'ction. ». / [dereliaio, Lat.]
1
7 he aft of forfaking or leaving ; aban-

lookeJ for, but
th: cffeai of God's mcftjuftdifpleafurc, ihe withdrawing of grace, d!r<l:nUn in this world, and in
the world to come confufion.
lieoker.
pi.

[Inlaw.]

4.

augh at i
olcotn.

-v.

a.

[derideo,

Lat.]

;

Dav'us.

To trace a word from

To Derive, "v. n.
1
To come from ; to owe its origin to.
He that rcCfts the power of Ptolemy,

1

call

connatural and

[In medicine.]

its

:

only to fame neighbouring place, and by

m-ans, we call it derivation.

The thing deduced
ufed.

gctitlc

Wijman.
or derived; not

;

for pow'r from heaT*n

Derivei, and monarchs rule by gods appointed.
Prior.

2.

if

origin.

ReUlb the pow'r of hcav'n

The drawing of a hu-

we draw it to (bme very remote, or, it
may be, contrary part, we call that rcvulfton ; if

5.

[In grammar.]

dition of thofe truths tliat

ufed

To

to mock; to tujn to ridicule

into every part of the kingdom.

7.

Dimatien differs from revutfion only in the mcafurc of the diftaHce, and the force of the medicines

Goodj

To fpread ; to dilFnfe gradually from
one place to another.
The ftreams of the publick juftice vrtn derived

fource,
Astouching traditional communication, and tra-

other.

Diil.

DERI'DE.

Lotie.

mour from one part of the body to an-

wilfully thrown away, orrclinquifhed, by

the owner.

6.

it,

lljU^i Origin bf Mankird.

to be

common ufc.
South.
To communicate toby defcent of blood.
Befidcs the readinefs of parts, an excellent difmind is derived to your lordlhip from
the parents of two generations, to whom I have
the honour to be known.
Felttn,

The tranfmilTion of any thing from its

The ftate of being forfaken.

De'relicts. n. /.

to be laid on

engraver, I do not doubt but many of thofe truths
have had the help of that deriiiaticn.

donment,
There is no other thing

is

on a bare grammatical etymology.
3.

5.

pofition of

from its original.

ex-

To receive by tranfmiffion.
This property fccnis rather to have been derived
from the pretorian foldiers.
Decay of Piery,
The cenfcrs of thefe wretches, who, I am fure,
could derive no fanftity to thsm from their owa
perf;>ns ; yet upon this account, that they had been
confecrated by the offering incenfe in them, were,
by God's fpecial command, fequefteted from all

The tracing of a word

Dougla/s.

So from immo-tal race he does proceed,
That mortal hands may not withfiand his might;
Dred for his derrwr doe, and blody deed
;
For all in blood and fpoil is i.is delight. F.iheen.

4.

the water began to fwell, it would every
itfelf by any defcents or declivities

Burnet,

ample it means daring.

2.

Lat]

of the ground ; and thcfe ilTues and deri-uaiions
being once made, and fupplied with new waters
pulhing them forwards, would continue their courle
till they arri»ed at the fea, juft as other rivers do.

Bhuti.

in the

incorrupt, deriveih not nature, but incorrujition,
and that immediately from his own perfon, unto all
that belong unto him.
Hooker.

way difcharge

Drra'y. «./ [from defrayer, Fr. to turn

Some think that

[deri-jatio,

A draining of water; a turning of its

jSrbutinct.

To communicate to another, as from
the origin and fource.
Chrill having Adam's nature as we have, but

courfe.

mem or difcharpe of their profefliun, wliich it fpokrn of thcfe religious men who forlook their orders

Tumult; diforder; noife.
Merriment; jollity jlbleranity: not in

3.

a'd of all honour derivable upon mc, that thofe
who honour him Ihall be honoured by him. Sotiih.

Deriva'tion. ». /

from the folids,

lities

ridiculing.

;

God has declared this the eternal rule ar,d ftand-

out of religion.

Obfolete.

ccedoncanother in their own indcrftarjdings, LccJtc.

From thefe two cjufcsof the laxty and rigidity
of theiibrcs, the methadi.ls, an ancient fet of phyficians, derived all difcifes uf human bsdics with a
great deal of reafon ; for the fluids dirive their qua.

.

3.

To Dere. -u. a. [hcpinn. Sax.]

Men derive their ideas of duration from thoif
refleftion on the train of idi.'as they obfcrve to fuc-

Der i'sor y tidj. [deri/orius, Lat.] Mock-

Deri'vable. fli^'. [(xomderi've.'] Attain2. A difordering or turning out of courfe.

ufc.

They endeavour t.j derivethe varieties of colours
from the various proportion cf th: diredl progreff
or motion of thcfe globules to their circumvolution,
or motion about their own centre,
Boy/e.

fcoffing.
O'er all th« dome they quaff, they feaft ;
Deriji-je taunCi were fpread from guefl to gucft.
And each in jovial mood his mate addrefs'J, P<ife.

ing

2.

caufe, from a principle.

Miltor.

The aft of deraigning or proving.

1.

To turn the courfe of virater from its
channel.
Company lelTens the fhame of vie- by fliaringjt,
.
and abates the torrent of a common odium by deriving it into many channels.
Smth.
2. To deduce;
as from a root, from a

ppim xllv. 13.

1.

and frofeflicns,

riuo, Lat.]
1

Deri'sive. adj. [from deride.] Mocking;

E/tunr.

;

In a derivative manner,
Te DERI'VE. a-, a. [deri-ver, Fr,from de-

Thy foes derijim, captive, poor, and blind.

To diforder ; to tura oat of courfe.

Der a'ionment
Der a'inment. {"/• [from/tr<j»fn.]

South.

Deri , VATivELT.a^fo. [itom deri'vaii've.]

Enfnar'd, afTaulted, overcome ; led bound.

idvowfjO of the tjthes being in demand: and

Shaheffetirt,

The word Honeftus originally and ftriftly figni-

and a derifion to them that are round about

"S.

deniind tythes in the next pacjfti by a writ of tm/;Mfif, the paunn liM have a writ to demand the

kii:g"« court.

AdJifon.

Contempt; fcorn; a laughing- ftock.
I am in dtrifitn daily
every one mocketh me.
Thou makefl us a reproach to our neighbours,

When the parfnn of any church is difturbcd to

2.

and

;

Mrat.onare, Lat.]
to judify.

;

to the fectct fcorn

derijim of thofe he converfes with.

2.

or taken

iics

A

Her fallow lees

derived

For honour,
'Tis a derivative from me to mine.
And only that 1 ftand for.

a fcofFer.

It is generally to be
of religion, fearful tokens of divine revenge have
derived from beop, a wild beafl, unlefs
been known to follow.
Hooker.
the place Hands upon a river ; for then
droll; a buffoon.
^^.
it may rather be fetched from the BriDeri'sion./t./ [derijio, Lat.]
tifli dur, i. e. water.
Gibfon's Camden.
1
The aft of deriding or laughing at.

The darnel, hemlnck, ar.d rank fumitory

word

from another.

the wilful violation of oaths, execrable
blafphemies, and like contempts offered by d^ridcrs

To Dera'cin ATS. i;. a. [Jeraciner, Fr.]
1
To pluck or tear up by the roots.

Lat.]

As it is a derivative pcrfciSion, fo it is a diftinil

Upon

names of places.

Glanville.

[deritjati'vus,

kind of perfedlion from that which is in God.

Deri'der. ». /. [from the verb.]

A term ufed in the beginning of

adj.

Derived or taken from another.

thi.ig that

tity of.

DER

hypothefis they claim to.

tl.ey

who mol^ reprehend or deride what we do. Hciler.
What rtia!! be the portion of thofe who have
derided God's word, and made a mock of every

TijDEqjJA'NTiTATF. K. a. [ftoin </f and
fuantitas.La' ]
1 o diaiinifh theqaan-

ot its aliay,

DER
Moft of them are the genuine derivations of the

Before fuchprefence to offend with any theJeall

To dcfcend from.
\

am, my lord, as wtll derived ii he,

As well pofTeft.

Stakeffeare.

DERi'vER.».y: [from derii/e.] One that
draws or fetches, as from the fource or
principle.
Such a one makes amr-n not only a partaker
oti ft men's fins,
itklitc

but alio

a

deriver of the

guile o( thesi to hiicCclf.

who l'
South

Dern

D E R

Dero'oatorikess. ». / [from derega.

DzfLK. aJj. [bearin, Saxon.]
I. Sad ; Iblitary.
Barbarous ; cruel.

i.

Detraftious ; that leffens the honour of;
difhonourable.
They live and die in their abfurdities, pafling

in the following

phrafe.

Brown.
wifdom of the creation.
Thefe deputed beings are derogatory from the
wifdom and power of the Author of Nature, who
doubtlefs can govern this machine he could create,
by more dire£t and eafy methods than employing

requires in the empire ; this being the dtrritr lefort

ToDb'rogate.

^I'fff-

v. a. [Jerego, Lat.]

To do an aft fo far contrary to a law or
cuftom, as to diminifh its former extent

1

difHnguiftied from abrogate.

By
many of thofe civil and canon laws are controuled
feveral contrary curtoms and ftiles ufed

here,

Even there, where Chrift vouchfaf 'd to teach.
Sjndyi,
Their dervifes dare an impoftor preach.
The deivis at firft made fome fcruple of violating his proroife to the dying brachman; but told
him, at laft, that he could conceal nothing from fo

Hate.

and Jirbga'eJ*

To leffen the worth of any perfon or

2.

thing ; to vilify.
Tff

De'rogate. "v. n,

1

To detraft

;

A difcourfe

And ftand between two churchmen, g 'Od my lord

Skakefpeare^s King hear.

Deroca'tion. tt.f. [ticrogatio, Latin.]
The aft of weakening or reftraining a
1
former law or contraft.
It was indeed but a wooing ambaflTage, with good

Tcfpefls,

to entertain the

king in good' aftcdlion ;

but nothing was done or handled to the derogation
of the king's late treaty with the Italians. Bacon,
That which enjoins the deed is certainly God's
law; and it is alfo certain, that the fcripture,
which allows of the will, is neither the dero^ati'^
South,
nor relaxation of that law.
2.

A defamation

;

detraftion ; the

aft

of

away the honour of
any perfon or thing. Sometimes with
leffening or taking

To fing in parts.
To difcourfe at large

1.

2.

Hooker.

Sfenfer en Ireland,

The wifeft princes need not think it any diminution to their greatncfs, or derogation to their fuf'ficiency, to rely upon counfcl.
Bacon,
I fay not this in derogation to Virgil, neither do
I ei^ntradi£l any thing which I have formerly faid
Dryden,
In his juft praife.
Noncnfthefe patriots will think it 3 derogation
faid,
received
merit
to
have
it
that
they
their
from
many lights and advantages from their intimacy
*ith my lord Somer:.
AJd'.frn,

Dero'g ATiVE. aiij. [derogati'vui, Latin.}

Why I, in this weak piping time of peace.
Have no delight to pafs away the time,
Unlefs to fpy my fhadow in the fun.
And defeant oti mine own deformity.
Shakefpeai e*s

Riebardlll.

A

(he do^rine of lullracions, amulets, and ch-irnis.
Brtzvni Vulgar Errvurt,

Dero'g ATORiLY,
ftirj.]

aei-j.
[from aengaIn a detrafting manner.
D::7.

Congregations dllcerned the fmall accord that

upon any place.
He ended, and they both defendththtWX
Defcended Adam to the bow'r, where Eve

MJifcn.

;

The rain defcended, and the floods came, and
the winds blew, and beat upon that houfe ; and it
fell not, for it was founded upon a rock.
Mattbev!, vii. 25.
The brook that defended out of the mount.
Deuteronomy^ ix. 11.
He cleft bis head with one defcending blow.
Drydtn,
Foul with flains
Of gulhing torrents and defending rains. Mdifon,
goddcfs ! who, defending from the /kies,
Vouchfaf 'd thy prcfcnce to my wond'ring eyes.
Pcpt.

In all our journey through the Alps, as well when
we climbed as when we defcer.ded them, we had
Addifcn.
ftili a river running along with the road.
In the midft of this plain Hands a high hill, fo
very ftcep, that there would be no mounting or defcending it, were not it made up of a loofe crumbled
Addijon.
earth.

Desce'ndakt. n.f. \defccndant, French;
The offspring of an
defcendens, Latin.]
anceftor ; he that is in the line of generation, at whatever diftance.
Th» dcfcendanti of Neptune were planted there.
Bacon,

O, true defendant of a patriot line,
Vouchfatc this piflure of thy foul to fee. Drjden,
He revealed his own will, and their duty, in a
mote ample manner than it had been declared to
Atttrbury.
any of my defendants before them.
Desce'ndent. adj. [defcendens, Latin.]
It feems to be eftablilhed,

To come down, in a popular fenfe, implying only an arrival at one place from
another.
He ihall defend into battle, and perilh.
I

3.

the Latin.]
I .

;

to fall

upon as from an eminence.
For the pious fire prefcrvc the fonj
Hit wifii'J return witKhappy pcw'r betriend,
And on the fuitors let thy wrath defend,
£cpi,

6

Falling ; finking ; coming down ; de*
fcending.
There is a regrefs of the f.ip in plants from above
downwards j and this defendcnt juice is that which
principally nourilhes both fruit and plant.
Ray en the Creation.

I.

Proceeding from another, as an original
or anceflor.
More than niortal grace
Speaks thee defender.t of ethereal race.

Teft,

Desce'ndible. aA". \itom defend,']
Such as may be defcended ; fuch as may
1
admit of a pafTage downwards.

Samuel, xxvi. 10.

To come fudJenly or violently

that the fub-

the termination
from the French, and the adjeftive from
ftantivc (hould derive

O

2.

Milton.

Lay llceping.

?

higher place to a lower ; to fall ; to fink.

Thatfpirits are corporeal, fcrmc to me a conceit

dirogativt X..t himfcif, and fuch as he /hould rather
labour to o\crthiow; yet thereby he e(ljbli:het'n

particular confiderations.

MiJton.
virtuous man Hiould be pleafed to find people

his honour.

not in ufe.
.^.

To extend a difcourfe from general to

Com'ft thou for this, vain boaller, to I'urvey me.

To defeant on my Arength, and give thy verdift

Derogating ; lelTcuing the honour of:

*

to make fpceches

in a fenfe of cenfure or contempt.

To DESCE'ND. a;. ». [dtfceneio, Latin.]
To go downwards to come from a
1

tiiatl faidhe is a mingled people, it is no difpraife.

.

;

Locke,

his father's authority.

8.

TsDesce'nd. t;. a. To walk dowirward

gjtionfi-Dm their credit ; and therefore that which
once they had done, they became for ever after re-

So furely iie is a very brave man, neither is that
any thiaj which Ifpeak to \nt derogation ^ for in

Our author provides for the defending and conveyance down of Adam's monarchical power topnfterity, by tlic inheritance of his heir, fuccecding to

;

For on that ground I'll build a holy def.ant. Shak.
Kindnefs would fupplant our unkind reportings,
and fcvcre defcdnts upon our Ircthien.
Government of the T'jngue,
To De'scant. v. n, [from the noun.]

defcanting upon his actions, becaufe, when they are
thoroughly canvalTcd and examined, they turn to

folute to maintain.

Ltcke.

was among themfelves, when they defended to parDecay of Piery
ticulars.

properly v/'ith/rom.
Which, though never fo neceffary, they could
not ealily now admit, without fome fear of deroto,

fon j yet the father's natural dominion, the paternal fovettycinnot defend unt» him by inheritance.

Milton.

;

Look you get a prayer-book in your hand,

Into her womb convey fterility

!

ceflbr.
Should wc allow that all the property, all the
eftate, of the father ought to defend to the eldeft

perty in things, fprung from the fame original, and
Locke,
were to defend by the fame rules.

word of cenfure or contempt.

•

A babe to honour her

•

The inheritance of both rule over men, and pro-

a difputation ; a difquifition branched out into feveral divifions
Or heads.
It is commonly ufed as a

Shiilefptare.
*— You cannot tterogafty my lord.
De'rogate. aJj. [from the verb.] Degraded ; damaged ; leiTened in value.

And from her derogate body never fpring

fended of the ancent family of the Wimbles. Add.
To fall in order of inheritance to a fuc-

The wakeful nightingale
All night long her amorous dffcant fung.
2.

mean original ; the off-

7.

Stakefpeare,

Is there no dcrog.ition in 't ?

Dry up in her the rrgans of increafe.

Dcfpair defcmdi from a

fpring of fear, lazinefs, and impatience.
Collier agairfi Drffair.
Will, is younger brother to a baronet, and de-

A fong or tune compofed in parts.

Hooker.

To degenerate ; to aft beneath one's
rank> or place, or birth.

derived from.

And mar the concord with too harlh a defeant.

Jerogaiefrm them whom their induftry hath made
2.

Drydtn.

To proceed as from an original ; to be

6.

Nay, now you arc too flat,

Wc fliould be injurious to virtue itfclf, if we did
great.

A foreign fon upon the ihore difcendi,
Whofc martial fame from pole to pole extends.

DE'SCANT. n.f yifcanto, rtalianf
1.

from.

The goddefs gives th' alarm ; and foon is known
The Grecian Hetldef ending; on the town. Dryder.,

Sfeflator.

excellent a prince.

to leflen reputation : with

To make an invafion.

Cbeyne.

thefe fubfcrvient divinities.

De'rvis. n.f, [Jer'vit, French.] ATurkifh prieft, or monk.

Milton,

Into \i\xait\f defcended.
5.

their days in perverted apprehcnfions and conceptions of tlie world, derogatory unto God, and the

In the Imperial Chamber, the term for the profecutisn of an appeal is Dot circumlcribed by tlic
term of one or two years, as the law cKicwIiere

and fupteme court of judicature.

:
in a figurative fenfe.
He, with honed meditations fed.

Di3,
The aft of derogating.
Dero'catorv. ailj. [dcrogalorius, Lat.]

Obfoktc.

and ufed only

4. To go down

lory,^

Dernie'r, /i^'. Laft. It is a mere French
word,

D E S

D E S

2.

Tranfmifiible by inheritance.
According to the cufloms of other countries,
thofe honorary fees and infcudations were dtfadiblt to the cldelt, and not to all the males.

Law of England,
Desce'msion.

Hale'i Cemnion

D E S
Dhsce'nsion. »./.

D E S
Latin,]

[de/cenjto,

1 1.

The aft of going downwards, falling, or

1

direft fphere.
Oblique dcjcenfion is the arch of the equator,
which defcends with the Cgn below the horizon of
an oblique fphere.
Oxanam,

Desce'nt.

n.

f.

To me inferior

lower place.

an inclining plane, without which they
fyoi^iu. Nat, Hift.
4. Lowell place.
From the extreme^ upward of tby head
To the dffcent and duft below thy fi.ct. Sbakefpeare,

DesCri'ber.

but he did countenance

the landing in his long-boat.
The duke was general hirrfcif, and

ffofton.

light is not a body.

Stood on the roof, from whence we could dtjlry
All Ilium.
Denhan.
Once more at leaft look back', fatd I j

Thyfelf in that large glafs defcry.

Descry',

yoJ\ xviii. 9.

How near
.

the verb.]

Salmtins Survey,

The fentence or paflage in which any
thing is defcribed.

[dr/ertum, Lann.]
wildernefs ; folitude ; wafte country; luiinhabited place.
Be alive again,

And dare me to the defert with thy fword.
If trembling I inhibit, then pruteft me
'

A

poet mull relufe all tediou% an^ unnece/Tary
dtjcriptkm : a robe which is too heavy, is lefs an

ornament than a burthen,
Drydtn.
Sometimes, mifguided by the tuneful throng,

De'sert.

adj. [deferlus, Latin.]
wafte ; folLary ; uninhabited ;
tivateJ ; untilled.

look for ftrcams immortaliz'd in fong,

The fort of dsfinition, which is made up of a
mere collection of the mnft icmarkablc parts or
properties, is called an imprrfctl J'-finition, or a

4.

The qualities exprefled in a defcription.
rU pay fix thoufand, and deface the bond,
Before a friend of this dejcrifl'wn
Shall lofe a hair,
.Shakrjf. MfnI.jr.t cf Venice.

To bar my mailer's heirs in true Jtfctnt I
God koowi, 1 will not do it.

Milttn,

ff^jtit.

To DESCRY'. 1/. a.
1.

Idtfcrier,

To DESE'RT.
de/ero,
1.

[dfferter,

French ;

Latin.]

To forfake

;

to

fall

away from;

to

I do not remember one man, who heartily wifhcd the palling of that bill, that ever defertcd tliem

:

J^i«/f«, 1.13.

a.

don.

French.]

And Uie houic of Jofepb lent to dtfcry Bethel.

-v,

leave meanly or treacheroufly ; to aban-

To give notice of any thing fuddenly

difcovered
as, the fcout tie/tried the
enemy, or gave notice of their approacli.
This fenfe is now obfolcte, but gave
occafion to thofe which are now in ufe.
2. To fpy out ; to examine at a diftance.

,

Loch,

another.

the elTential difjeitnce,

added to ^jcneral nature or genus,

Atlerbury,

have words

howling wilderncfs.
Diuurammy, xxxii. lo.
The proinifcs and bargains between two men in
a defrt iflari.l are binding to them, though thc-y arr;
perfcflly in a fiatc of nature, in reference to one

whereas the definition is called perfect,

when it is compolcd of

uncul-

Where hearing fhould not catch them.
Xtakefp.
He found him in a defert land, and in the waltc

A lax definition.
dijcriptiort ;

Offspring ; inheritors ; thofe proceeding in the line of generation.
The care of our dijtini perplexes us mofl.
Which muft be born to certain woe.
Mi/ion.
From him
His whole Jffctiir, who thus Iball Caujaa win.

I

Wild;,

That would be howl'd out in ihc defert air,

And in the fmooth dijcrifikn murmur (till, j^djij.

Abraham, Ifajc, and Jacob, to whom
the promife of the bleffcd feed was feverally made.

Shakejfcarit

He, looking round on-cvcry fide, beheld

That run for ever by the mufe's fkill.

dtfcrni fiom

Tho baby of a girl.

-

A paihlcis dcf.rt, dulkwith horrid fhades. Milicn.

Dumb aie their fountains, and their channels dry,

3.

A

De'sert. n.f.

ties.

2.

claim, had great reafon to glory in their common

10.

Shakefpearr.

Desecr a'tion. n. /. [from dejecrate.']
The abolition of confecration.

perfon or thing by perceptible proper-

conveyance,

Drydeti.

the other army ?

The founders of monaftcries imprecated evil on
thofe who iliould dcfecratc their donations.

A

The aft of delineating or expreffing any

1.

mud direil

Sbaktffearc.
Turnus, for high dtfittii and graceful mien,
Was firft, and favour'd by the Latian queen.

's

any thing is confecrated.

To tafic the ne^ar of a kifs.
Crajhmv.
Descri'i'tion. n./. [de/criftio, Lztin.]

Jf the agreement and confent of men firft gave a

9. Birth ; extraftion ; procefs of lineage.
1 give my voice on Richard's fide.

Difco-

-—Near, and on fpeedy foot, the main defcry
Stands in tlie hourly thought.

That loft in filence and oblivion lie.

L^Ut.
8. The ftate of proceeding from an original or progenitor.
All of them, even without fuch a particulir

Prior,

[from the verb.]

n./.

very ; thing difcovered.

The glad dcjcrier fhail not raifs

1

alfo

t^^gh-

A tow'r fo high, it feem'd to reach the iky.

difcoverer ; a detefter.

and inheritance.
any one's hand, that

Milinn,

Although the motion of light be not drfrried, n»
argunnent can be made from thence to prove that

\_irom defcribe.]

n. /.

Descri'er. ». /. [from

Tranfmiflion of any thing by fuccefiion

its dtjuni and

To Paradife firft tending.

Spain was by the Greek defcriiers named Erythra.

made that

unfortunate dtficnt upon the Ille of Rhec, which was
attended with a miferable tetTLat, in which the
flower of the army was loft.
CJarendm,
Ariff, true judges, in your own defence,
Controul thole fopli::gs, and declare for fenfe
For, fhculd the fools prevail, they ftop not there.
But make theirrext defcint upon the fair. Drydtn.

Ra/tigk,

He To DE'SECRATE. a;, a. [de/acro, Lat.]
that defcribes.
To divert from the purpofe to which.
From a plantation and colony, an illand near

6. Invafion ; hollile entrance into a king:
in allufion to the height of ftiips.
At the firrt Jijcent on Aiure, he was not immur-

light falls, appeir to be

And iiow their way to earth they had dejcried.

mifcuous mention of qualities general
and peculiar.
See Descri.ption.

O foul ittj'centj that 1, who erlt contended
With gods to fit the highcft, am now conHrain'd

dom

book,

part whereon the

horned, as the moon fcems.

To define in a lax manner by the pro-

4.

5. Fall from a higher ftate ; degradation.

Afi/tin,

and acsording to my

Men pafTtd through the land, and dtfcribed it by
cities into fcvcn parts in a

could not flow at aJI.

Into a beall, and mix with bcllial tlime
This eflence to incarnate and imbrute.

;

vifions.

Lcrke,

fcenr, or

them

my aft'ciVion.

To diftribute into proper heads or cii-

3.

Obliquity; inclination.
The lieads and fourccs of rivers flow upon a i/f-

fceptre into

S^okelp^arr.

That planet would, unto our cyei, defcrying pnly
that

thoughts in fearch, through all the treafurc of
wordi that exptefs any one idea in the fame language, that fo he may compart with the meafures
of the rhyme, or with his own mofi beautiful and
vivid fentimcnts of the thing he dijcriiei.
AFa/rj.

B/acimire,

bable, that it is fo alfo in things above.

dejiribe

j

What's pall and what's to come Ihecan defcry.

Hhaktfpiare.
He that writes well in verle will often fend his

Why do fragments, from a mountain rent,

7.

Htiibard'i'Iah.

The fpirit of deep prophecy (he hath

I pray thee, overname them ; and as thou nam'ft
defcriptior, level at

velfel,

:

of its properties,
them, 1 will

ed with a wooden

Mi/fcn.

To mark out any thing by the mention

The aft of palTing from a higher to a

by the eye ;

to perceive

;

to fee any thing diftant or obfcure.
Thus diglit, into the court he took his way;
Bjrh through the guard, which never him defcried.
And through the watchmen, who him never fpied.

a circle.

Latin; de-

2. Progrefs downwards.
Obferving fuch gradual and gentle i/iy^mri downwards, in thofe parts of the creation that are beneath men, the rule of analogy may make it pro-

To difcover

4.

infinite dejcftitt

;

Tend to the earth with fucb a fwift Jeftent ?

3.

J

as a torch r aved about the head dnjcribcs

J'cente, French.]
I;

and of the queen mother at her own table }
neither place dijcried, no, not by Cadint't, who
had been lately ambaffador in England.
IV^tlcn,
ill

roDESCRI'BE. v. a. \_defcribo, Latin.]
1, To delineate ; to mark out
to trace

2,

[de/cen/ui,

Of the king they got a fight after dinner in a
gallery,

How have 1 then with whom to hold converfe.
Save with the creatures which 1 made, and thofe
Beneath what other creatures are to thee?

j^lboi.

cealed.

A rank in the fcale of fubordination.

12.

the fe.is.

To deteft ; to find out any thing con-

3.

Till aged Heli by due heritage it gain'd. F. iiuien.

Desce'nSional. eiJj. [from de/cenfion. ]
Relating to defcent.

fleets to dcjcry

Even thrice eleven defcents the crown retain'd.

tice ! a low [ransformacion : that Jhai] be mine.

Sbakefptare^

Our merchants, to their great charges, fct forth

Then all the fons of thefe five brethren reign'd,
By due fuccefs, and all their nephews lace.

!

[In aftronomy.] Right defcenfton is the
arch of the equator, which defcends with
the figa or ftar below the horizon of a

Xdm'jnd, I think, is gone to icpry

The ftrcngth o* th' enemy,

No man living is a tboufand defctnti removed
from Adam himlclf.
Hoi,ier,

A

3.

A fingle ftep in the fcale of genealo-

gy ; a generation.

finking; dcfcenc.
declenfion ; a degradation.
3,
From a god to a bull a heavy dejcenjion :
From a prince to a 'prenIt was Jo\e's cafe.
Shaktjptart,

D E S

till

2.

the kingdom was in a flame.

Diydcn.

To leave ; to quit.
Wli.it is it that holds and keeps the orbs in fixed
and inteivals, againft an inceflfant and inherent tendency to defr/t them
Bir.tlej,
ftations

.'

3.

To quit the army, or regiment, in which
one is cnliAcd.

Dese'rt.

•

Vet well, if here would end

Dese'ht. «./. [properly /{,Jfert : Oic woru
fruit

;

;

DEbL'kT. n.f. [horn tfe/er-ve.]

gree of merit or demerit.
BrUif ol ncccflity a thing common, it is, through
the manitold pcriuafions, dilpofitions^ and occafions o( men, with e^ual dej'tri both of praife and
difptaife, fliuflned by lomc, by othert dedred.
Hictcr,

Tht bafe o' th' mount
Isj-ank'd with all Jcjerii, all kind ot" natures,
That labour on the bofom of this fphcre
Sbahj'peart,
To propagate their ftatcs.

Cfc every man

attcr

his dtjtrt,

and who

ftiall

South,

Excellence ; right to reward ; virtue.
More to move you,
Take my dtftrls to his, and join them both. Stak.
DESE'KTtK. n.f. [fvom de/ert.]
1. He that has forfaken his caufe or his
3.

poft :

popular.

drew, were counted dejcrttn, and outed of their

King Cbji/ts.
places in parliament.
Streight to their ancient cells, rccall'd from air.
D>ydin.
The rrconcil'd dcferten will repair.
Uofts of defirtcri, who your honour fold.

And bafely broke your faith for bribes of gild.

For hirti 1 was not fent, nor yet to free

That people vi£lor once, now vile and bafe,
Milton.
DeftrvcJIy made vafl'al.

yiildfon.

only in a good fenfe.

He that forfakes another

;

An intention

Heavy, with fome high minds, is an overweight

2.

A fcheme

The fair lex, if they had the dcJtrUr in their
power, would certainly have /hewn hmi more meicy
Drydcn.
than the Bacchanals did Orpheus.
Thou, falfe guardian of a charge too good.
Thou mean dejcrtir of thy brother's blood. Pcfi.

To DE'S'ICCATE. 'v. a. [deftcco, Latin.]
1. To dry 'jp ; to exhauft of moifture.
In bodies dcficcated by heat or age, when the native fpirit gocth forth, and the moifture with it,
Bacon,
the air with time getteth into the pores.
Seminal ferments were elevated from the fen, or
fome dcjkcattd places thereof, by the heat of the
lUlc.
fun.

[In theology.] Spiritu.il dcfpondency ;
a fenfe of the dereliftion of God ; an
opinion that grace is withdrawn.
ChrtI: hears and

[from //fyfrr.] Withwithout claim to favour or

out merit ;
reward.

It

Desi'ccative. adj. [from deficcaie.
That which has the power of drying.
;

;

Eclipfes are of wonderful afliftance toward the
folvition of this fo dclirablc and io

much deJiAenilcd

problem.

Chtync,

[Latin.]
Some%vhat
which enquiry has not yet, been able to
fettle or difcover ; as, the longitude is
the rt'f//./'.')7T/«/« of navigation.
The trifcftion of an angle, and the quadrature
cf a circle, are the dcjiderata of geometry.

To DESE'RVR. t- a. y./ervir, French.]

To be worthy of either good or ill.
'•^

honoured, as hav.ng povier to work

All friends (hall tafte

The wages of tlicir viituc, and all foe<
5b ihffeari
The cup of their dcft-vixgi.
Wh-j; he dtfimit of you and nic 1 kno.v, Siai.

Pope*

Latin. ]
capable to be particu-

adj.

Diflinguilhable ;

[

defigno,

larly marked out.
The power of all natural agents is limited the
mover muft be confined to ubt'ervc thefe proportions, and cannot pafs over ail thefe infinite </r^nable degrees in an inftant.

Desi'diose.

ttdj.

[defidiojut ,

Lat.] Idle ;

lazv ; heavy.

To DESI'GN. T'. a.

[defiant, Latin ; dej-

finer, French.]
I .

To purpofe

;

Digi-y,

Design a'tion. n.f. [defignatio, Latin.]
I. The aft of pointing or marking out by
fome particuLir token.
This is a plain dcfgnaticn of the duke of Marlborough

:

one kind of fluff ufed to fatten land is

called marie, and every body

To want to mifs to defire in abfence.
A word fcarcely ufed.

She faid (he lov'd,

'IV

Where life awakes and dawns at every line.

Desi'gn ABLE.

is a

'\

TsDesi'derate. f. a, \deJide):o, Latin.]

Lov'd me dtjertlcft \ who with fliame confcfl,
Dryd
Anoihcr dime had fcia'd upon my breaft^.

T

jiddifon.

Thy hand ftrikes out fome TteMi drfign.

the fpirits iflue out of the body, there fol-

DESIDERA'TUM.

IhcL-r.
or ceafe, ai men diferftui of them.
Some of UJ live you w;ll j and even thofe fonic
Envy your great deji-rvings,'"''^ RO""! name. Siui.

Protogenes.

loweth djiccaiion, induration, and confumption.
Baccn.

fympathizcs with the fpritual

adj.

medals one may often fee the hand «f an Apelles or

Bacon's Natural IVtJlifi.

ing dried.

agonies of a foul under dtjeilion, or the prcflures 0.
R.uth.
fome flinging r.ffliflion.

Dese'rti-Ess.

The idea which an artift endeavours to
execute or exprefs.
I doubt not but in the dfgm of feveral Greek

4.

:

n.f. [from de/iccate.'\
The aft of making dry ; the ftate of be-

Every compliance that wc ^^e pcrfuadcd to by
one, is a cooiradi^linn to the commands of the
other; and our adherence to on.', will ncceliarily
Rogers,
involve us in a dtj'ertiin of the other.

A

fi'daie fettled dcfrrn upon another man's life,
put him in a ftate of war with him againft whom
he has declared fuch an intention.
Locke.

Where there is moifture enough, or fupertluous,
"

caufe or poft.

a purpofe.

;

a plan of aftion.

another.

there wine fielpcth to digeft and deficcaie the moif-

ture.
Dfse'rt ION. ?»./. [from (fe/ert.]
The aft of forfaking or abandoning a Desicca'tiON.
1
.

;

A fcheme formed to the detriment of

3.

To exhale moifture.

2.

lit-

Is he a prudent ir.an, as to his temporal eftate,
that lays dcfigns only for a day, without any profpeft to the remaining part of his life ?
Ti//D//;».

Ap-

.'\

:

/ [from the verb.]

1.

Desi'ccants. B./ [from deficcau

an abandoner.

n.

Shakefpeare.

of obligation j or othcrwife gieat defcri'cn do, perlyaton.
chance, griAV intolerable prefumers.
Emulation will never be wanting amongft poets,
when particular rewards and prizes are propoftd to
Drydcn.
the beft dtfcrvtrs.

Tatler, N» 59.

2.

Desi'gn.

Their lo\e is never link'd to the dtferver.

garrifon is brought to the utmoft nccelTity.

3.

community which he endeaviurs

driers.
Thi', in the beginning, may be prevented by
Jf^ifeman.
deficranis, and waflcd.

A

To mark out by particular tokens

tle ufed.
'Tis not enough to make a man a fubjeift, to
convince him that there is regal power in tha
world J but th-yre moft be ways of dejtgtting and
knowing the pcrfoii to whom this regal power of
rijjht belongs.
Locke,

Dese'rver. n.f. [from tie/er've.] A man
who merits rewards. It is ufed, I think,

deftrttr, who came out of the citadel, fays the

to pro] eft ; to form Ln idea.

lines 1)C well drawn, or as more elegant artizans
verm it, well d/Jlgncd ; then, whether it be well coffcita:.
loured ; which be the two general heads,
Thuswhileiheyfpccd theirpave, theprinccA^^m
The new cle£lcd feat, and draws the lines. Dtj<i.n.

5.

He thit leaves the army in which he is

Daay of Piety.

;

Wc arc to obfervc whether tlic pifture or out

A man dff'i-'ved/y cuts himfclf off from the af-

plications that dry up the flow of fores ;

Thiy are the fame dtfirters, whether they flay
in out^wo camp, or run over to the enemy's.

C'arcTtdcn,

fon.

To plan

4.

good or evil.

to fwlivert.

with tti.

He was born to the inheritance of a fplcndid f jrtune i he was defigned to the fludy of the law. Oryd.

Sit'tfi.

feftions of that

:

One of thofe places was defgntd by the old man
to his

Dryd.n.

enlifted.

To devote intentionally

3.

DESE'avEBi.v.flii'T. [from</^ri'*.] Worthily ; according to defert, whether of

Till his deferts are pafs'd.

commonly in an ill fenfe.

The members of both houfts, who at firft with-

2.

According to the rule of natural juftice, one man
South.
may merit and defer^tn of another.
Courts arc the places where beft mannersflourifli,
Otwjy.
Wliere the drfmiirg ought to rife.
He ha.l been a pcrfon of great difervingi from
the republick, was an admirable fpeaker, and very

Shatrfftart.

2. Proportional merit ; claim to reward.
All dtj'eri imports an equality between the good
conCerrcj, and the good dcfcr«d, or made due.

Diydtn.

reward.

_

,

To be worthy of

To Dese'rve. V. It.

relpccl to rewards or punilhments ; de-

•fcape whipping ?

Jifncd for the acknowledgment of a Being, whom
the moft excellent creatures arc bound to adore as
Still'mgfM,
well as wc.
You are not. for obfcurity dtfign'd,
human
kind.
But, like the fun, muft cheer all

A

Qualities or conduft confidered with

1.

The adi of religious worfliip wer« purpofcly d.-

A

motlier cannnt give him death : though he
Drydir.
DrffT^es it, he dcfrri'fs it not from me.
Since my Or^zia's death I have not feen
Drydcn.
beauty (b dfferflrg to be queen.

See Dessert.

teaft is concluded.

To form or order with a particular pur_
pofe: withyor.

2.

The mifery I defem'd ir, and wotild bear
Atihor.
My own defcrvings.

Ihe laft courfe
or fwcatmeat* with which a

is originally French.]

the

D E S

D E S

D ES

Appointment

I.

knows that borovigh

name for a town.
;

Sivift.

direftion.

William thu Conijucror forbore to ufc that claim
it with a titulary pretence, grounded upon the will and deftgnation of
Edward the CMnfelVor.
Bacon.
3. Import ; intention.
Finite and infinite leem to be looked upon byt' e
mind as tlie modes of (quantity, and to be attriin the beginning, but mixed

buted primarily in their firft dejtgtwilon only to thofe
th'-ngs which h.ivc parts, and are capable of incrc.ilV or diminution.
Loci •

Desi'onedi.y. fl/v. [from difign.]

Pur-

pofcly ; intentionally ; by defign or pur•

pofe; not ignorantly ; not inadvertently ; not fortuitoufly.
Ufcs made things; that is to fay, fome things
were made dfigiudlyt and on purpofe, for fuch an
life as

they ferve t.i.

Ray on the Creation.

The n xt thing is fometimes dcfgnedly Xa put
children in pain ; but care muft betaken that this

to intend any thing.

be done when the child is in good humour. Locke,

Desi'gner.

D E S

D E S
Desi'cKBi. »./. [from tfe/tgii.]
I .

A plotter

;

Dejire 's the vaft extent of human mind ;

a .ontriver ; one that lays

It mounts above, and leaves poor hope behind.

Dryden.

There is a great affinity bet«'een deligning and

To widi; to long for

I.

Desi'cnino. participial adj. [from detreacherous; deceit-

fraudulently artful.
*Twould fliewme poor, in'iebted, and compeird,

ful ;

Difigning, mercenary ; and I know
You would not wilh to think I could be bought.

S^ufhcrn.

adj.

[Uom dejign.'] With-

out intention ; without defign ; unknowing ; inadvertent.

Pesi'gklessly.

fl.'/f.

[from defignhfs .']

Without intention ; ignorantly ; inadvertently.

Desi'cnmEnt. n.f. \hoiai dejign.'\

To exprefs wiflies

fraud and falfehood from the dtjignmenti and aims
Decay cf P'lrty.
of irs firft promulgators.
'Tis a greater credit to know the ways of captivating nature, and making her fubfcrvc our purpofes and Je/ignmertt, than to have learned all the
Clanvilte.

i;itrigues of policy.

A fcheme of hollility.
News, lords

!

To aik

to intreat.
Sir, I intreat you home with me to dinner.
.^1 humbly d>t dejire your grace of pardon ;

3.

1

;

Sbetkjpeare.
muft away this night.
But fince you take fuch int'reft in our woe.

And Troy's difaft'rous end dejire to know,
I will reftrain my tears, and briefly tell
What in our laft and fatal night befell. Dryden.
4. To require ; to demand. Not in ufe.

a defolaie manner.

Desola'tion. n. J'.
1.

for they are de-

Prov. xxiii. 3.
meat.
Men arc dlowfy and dejircai to deep before the
Bacon.
fit of an ague, and yawn and llretcb.
ceitful

Of choicell fljw'rs a garland.

Sbattjpearc.

She received advice both of the king's defperate

Hayward.

The idea, or (ketch, of a work.
mn not really fuch, bot only painted on boards and
canvifi ; but fliall that cxcufe the ill painture or

4'Jig'^ment of them ?

2.

Drydtn.

When abfent, yet we conquet'd in his riglit

[from
n.f.
Fulnefs of defire ; eagernefs.

Desi'rousness.

In mingling colours, or in pbc'ing light,

Desi'radle. cdj. [from </^frr.]
That which is to be wiihed with ear-

1.

Adjudged cafes, toileted by m«n of great fagacity, will improve his mind toward actjnirins this
iefirahlt amplitude and extent of thoughu fValti.

He cannot but confefs, iliat it is a thing the moft
man, and moil agreeable to the goodncfs of God, that he ihould fend forih his light and

dfjirahle to

his truth by affcclal revelation of this will. Rogers.

2. Plcafing ; delightful.

She then let drop Ibme eiprelTions about an agate
fnuff-box : I immediately took ahe hint, ami
bought one; being unwilling to omit any thing that
Add'ijm.
might make me dejirahle in her ejc^.
Our own fex, our kindreJ, our houfes, and our
very names, feem to have fomcthing good and deWaiti.

ffable in them.
DESl'RE.

n. /. [defir, Fr. defio, It.-il.
Wi(h ; eagernefs to
Jfjiderium, Lat.]

obtain or enjoy.
D.fire is the uneafinefs a man finds in himfcif
upon the abfence of any thing, whofe prefent tn-

loymrnt carries the idea of delight witli it.

Vot.I.

Licke.

melancholy ;

Milton.

and then the tcrriblcnefs of the continual motion,
therf^/arioDofthe far being from comfort, the eye
and the ear havirig ugly images before it, dothftiU

That dwelling place is unnatural

vex the mind, even when it

de/irous. ]

DiJl.

beft

armed again

ft:

Sidney.

Then your haft (hall be ungartet«d, and every
thing about you denwnrtrate acarelefs defotaikn.

gerly ; with defire ; with ardent wifhes.

.

Dia.
To DESrST. 1/. n. [dejijio, Latin.] Te
with
ceafe from any thing ; to flop

is

mankind;

to

it,

DESi'RousLy. adv. [from dejirous.] Ea-

St.tkejpeare»

My defolat'um does begin to make

A better life.

Shake/pearl.

To complete

:

from.
Dejift, thou art difcern'd,

nnr me in vain mileft. Mi't.
;
many who will not quit a project,

And toil'd in vain

neftnefs.

fadnefs ;

deftitution.

Conjugal aff'eftion,

For though that fomc mean arti:V8 fitill were lliown

Ytt ftiU the fair dejigmrcni was his own. Dryden.

Gloominefs ;

MXtsn.

Prevailing over fear and timorous doubt,
Hath led me on, dejlrous to behold

Once more thy face.

The fcenc! which reprefcnt cities and countries

reduction

What with your praifes of the cnuntr;', what
with your dilcouifc of the l^ncntablc dtfolat'nn
thereof made by thofe Scots, you have filled me
with ; great companion. Sfenfer^s State of Ireland.
Without her follows to myfclf and thee,
Herfelf, the land, and many a Chrirtian foul,
Shakefpeart.
Death, defolalhn, ruin, and decay.

HcJir.

That their dejignmti halts.

[(vova defohtie.']

Deliruftion of inhabitants;
to Iblitude.

Adam the while,

ellate, and of the duke's dtjignmenti againft her.

.

De'solately. adv. [from defalate.'\ In

The fame piety which inaketh them that are in
authority dt/mut to pleafe and refcmble God by
jurtice, inflamcth every way mea of action with

our wars at« done !

to lay watte ;

;

The illand of Atlantis was not fwallowed by an
earthquake, but was dijrjaicd by a particular de^
luge.
Bacon,
Thick around
Thunders the fport of thofe, who with the gun.
And dog impatient bounding at the (hot,
Worfe than the feafon defilaie tlie fields. Thcmfcn.

longing after ; wilhing

Be not dtfiroui of his dainties ;

Latin.]

[defolo,

to make defert.

Full of

seal to do good.

a.

-v.

To deprive of inhabitants

counterfeit the bewitchment cf fome poShakefpcizre.

Solitary; without focLety.

To DE'SOLATE.

pular man, and give it bountifully to the dejtren.

Waiting dcfroui her return, had wove

•

yer. xxvi.
3.

eager of any thing ; a wiftier.

dejsre.'\

laid waftc.

This city will be defolaie, ^vithout an inhabitant.

Without vain art or curious compliments. Sf^enfer.

Desi'rous. adj. [from

BrocH^t,

Deprived of inhabitants ;

2.

DESi'aER. n.f. [(:om dejire.'] One that
is

Sbakefpeare,

at fi-ft in a dtfolate illand,

fi;ting upon the fide of the fea.

A doleful gale djirei a doleful fong.

The defperate temped hath fo bang'd the Turks,

3.

This hero appears

;

for.

The fanftity of the Chriftlan religion excludes

2.

Let us feek fome deJJate ihade, and there

Weep our fad bofoms empty.

to appear to long.
Dryden.
Jove beheld it with a dejirlng look.

z.

defire ; eager ;

A purpofe and intent.

1.

Without inhabitants ; uninhabited.

1.

Deut. vii. 25.

I will

In this great concert of his whole creation, the
iifigr.kjdj confpiring voices are as differing as the
Buylt,
conditions of the rel'peftive fingers.

to covet.

;

my

Poyr/

To writing of good fenfe.
Stti'jt^
De'solate. adj. \_defilatus, Latin.]

Thou flialt not dejire the filver or gold.

AdJiJM.

Desi'cnless.

deji-

derare, •1^7Ain.'\

painting or fculpture.

Infidious ;

Lake.

[iiV/f)vr, French J

unli.-iifhcd in

Not tlic dcji with lilver nails.
Nor bureau of expencc.
Nor ftandir.^ well japann'd, avails

ing, or elfe to direct the foit, and call in fuch as

He hath a dejire or ufe of.

have been obliged to leave

dejk the heads of two efl'ays.

ideas are that take the'r turns In his underlland-

One that forms the idea of any thing in ToDesi're. 'V. a.

poetry; for the Latin poets, and the </;/?j&-ri of the
Roman medals, lived very near one another, and
were bred up to the fame relifli for wit and fancy.

I

It is in a man's power only to obferve what the

been both the rule and
praflice for {ach d^gners to fuborn the publick intcreft, to countenance and coyer their private.
Decay ofP'tety.
It his therefore alwayi

Jign.'\

That 's cover'd o'er with Turkilh tapeftry.
There is a purfe of ducats.
Sbakefpeare,
He is drawn leaning on a dejkf with his bible before him.
IVcilton' s Anglerm

Shakeffeare.

fchemes.

^.

Tell her in the dejky

;

One that deiigns, intends, or purpofes ;
a purpofer.

X.

D E S

Drink provokes, and unprovokes it provokes
the dejirCf but it takes away the performance.

Tlieie arc

but will
though they find
;
readily dcjif, frjm it, when they are convinced it is
it

imprafticabic.

^lddif<-n.

aft of defifting ;

The

ceffation.

Men ufually g.vc frLclicIt where they have not
given before : and make it both the motive and
cxcufe of \\\z\xd<ffiance from giving any mote, that
Biyle.
they have gi\'cn already,

adj.

[dejilus,

ing ; cdncludent ;

Latin.]

End-

not yet rilcn.

Watti.

An
n.f. [////c^, a table, Dutch.]
inclining table for the ufe of writers or
readers, made commonly with a box or
repoliiyry under k.

yer. I. 23.

!

DESPATR. n.f. {dcfefpoir, French.]
I .

Hopeleflhefs ;
hope.

dcipondence ;

lafs

of

hejpair is the thought of the unattiinablenefs of
any good, which works difl'ercntly in men's minds
fimetimcs producing uneafinefs or pain, fometimes
Locke,
reft and indolency.
You had either never attempted this change, fet
«ith
it,
ftopc
on with hope; or never dilcovered
_

Sidney.

dcSpaW.

final.

Inceptive and defitix'e propofitions are of this
fort : the fogsvaiiifh as the fun riles j but the fogs
have not yet begun to vanifli, therefore the fun is

Desk.

"Th'tiifii:.

How is Babylon become a ucjolation among tbe
nations

pernicious or abfurd

Desi'stance. n.f. [from dcjijl."]

DESi'rivE.

The fcene of dej'o/ttthn, Ihetch'd around
The grim guards iiand.
3. A place wafted and forfaken.

We are troubled on evary fide, yet not diftrcfl'cd
we are perplexed, but not in defpair.

j

2 Cof, iv. 8.

Wc.irled, forfaken, and purfuc<i at lall.

All fafity in drjfitir of fafety plac'd,

Courage he thrr.ce rcfumes, icf >lv'd to bear
All their alTaults, fince 'tis in vain to fear. Dent.
Fqual the r flame, unequal wis their caie;
One lov'J with hope, one languiih'd with dj/'fi'-

Dryden

3T

2.

Tin.

Strangely \ili[ed )icQpIe,

All fwoln and ukLnm, pitiful to the tye 5
Ihe mere dcjf^ir oi furgerj, he cures
Hanging a goldirn flamp about their necks.
SMifftare.
Put or wiili holy prayeif

3. [In ihco'bgy.] Lofsof confidence in the

Sfratt.

_

JoDespa'jr. i;. ».

[//^o-o, Latin.]

be without hope ; to defpond

To

DE'SPICABLE. adj. [de/picaiilh, Lat.]

This night's great bufinefs into my defpaich,

Contemptible ;
worthlefs.

Exprefs ; hafty meflenger or meflage :
as, defpatches wtie fent away.

3.

'

Despa'tcmfui,.

adj. [from de/patchj]
Bent on hafle ; intent on fpeedy execu-

with 0/

:

Hammond*

Obfolete.

V.'hioh (hall, to all our nights and' days to come,
Give folely fovercign fway and mafterdom. Sbak.

God, or godly forrow, be perverted intoprefumption
or JiJ'fjir ?

have no promife of remilTion, whatever our future
care be, this dcfpcrathn of fuccefs chills all our induftry, and we fin on bceaufc we have finned.

Vou (hall put

all

:

Is all the policy, ftrength, and defence,
That Rome can make agaln(V them. Sbakefpeare~.
As long as we are guilty of any pall fin, and

Mdifcn.

Conduft ; management.

2.

mercy of God.
or moft evangelical virtues and
As there isi God
graces in diingcr of extremes ?
knows, too often a defcft on the one fwie, fo there
may be an cxcefs on the other may not hope in

Dejperatwn

You'd fee, could you her inward motions watch,
Feigning delay, (be wi(hcs for dijpatch ;
Then to a woman's meaning would you loo)c.
Granvi/le.
Then read her backward.
The dffpnicb of a good office is very often a! beneficial to lire folicitor a«,the good office itfdf.

tBat ef

which cauCes defpai'r;
w'jich there is no hope.

i. That,

Are not

D E5

D E S

E S

t)

Jtjfalr not ; for tlwre may be a turning.

£cr/Bi. xxil. 21.

I

Desva'irfui..

adj.

\deffair

and _/««.]

Obfblete.
Hopelefs.
That fweet but four dej}mrful care.

Irretrievable;

3.

Thefe debts may be well called dejperate ones

Dryder.

to put to

Shahfpeare.
ftone them with (tones,

In combating, but two of you will fall;

And we refolve we will Hrjpatcb you all. Drydeti.
Dtfpatcb me <)uickiy, may death forgive ;
1

To

3.

D&ydct.,
grow tender elf;, and wifti to live.
perform a bufinefs quickly : as, 1

difpatcbcd isvj affairs,

and ran hither.

Therefore commanded he his chariot-man to
drive without ceaiing, and to Jefpaith the journey,
the judgment of God now following him.
2 Mac. ix. 4.

No fuoner is one a£tion difpauhd, which, by
fuch a determination as the will, we are fet upon,
but another untafinefs is ready to fet us on wrrlc.
Licke.

4.

To conclude an affair with another.

am obliged to you for taking notice of a poofcommonly the moft dtjpif-

ahle thint; in the world.

Arbutbr.ot to Pope.

To DESPl'SE. v. a. [defpifer, old French,
Skinner;

defpicii,

To fcorn

1

to

;

Latin.]

contemn ;

to flight ; to

Concluding all mere dcjp'ratt fots and fools.
Pcrpe.
That durft depart from Ariftotle's rules.

For, lo, I will make thee fmaU among the hea-.
then, and dfpifed among men.
Jer. xiix. 1 5.

Furioufly ;

My fons their old unhappy fire defpije,

Spoil'd of his kingdom, and depriv'd of eyes. Pjtpe,

madly; without attention

In Shakejpeare it (eems once to fignify

2.

to fafety or danger.

abhor, as from the Italian defpettare.

Your eldeft daughters have foredone thcmfelves.

And dtjp'rately are dead.

Shakejpeare.

There might be fomewhat in it, that he would
not have done, or de(ircd undone, when he broke
forth as dcjperctely as before he had done uncivilly.
Brctun's Vulgar Errours.

Let not your ears dejp'ije my tongue for ever,'
Which (hall pod'el's them with the heavieft found

That ever yet they heard.

Despi'ser. n.f. [from
temner; fcorner.

Sbakefpelre,
defpife."]

Con-

2. In a great degree ; violently : this fenfe

Art thou thus bolJcn'd, man, by thy difirefs,

ludicrous.
She fell difperately in love with him, and took a
voyage into Sicily in purfuit of him.
j^dijon.

Or elfc a rude */f;^j/cr of good manners.
That in civility thou feem'd fo empty
Sbakejp*
Wifdom is commonly, at long running, juftified

is

De'sperateness. n.f. [from dejperate.

.'

even of her defpijin.
ligion,

The going on not only in tcrrours and amaze-

ratenjs alfo ; and the
defperate.

Despera'tion.

more bold thus, the more
Hammond.

«. /.

[from

defperate.']

Hopeleffnefs; defpair; defpondency.

Government of the Tongue.

Thus the athcills, libertines, and d.jfijers oi ce~
ufually pal's under the name of free,

"^

Madnefs ; fury ; precipitance.
fidently, in wilful habits of fin, is cal'cd a dejpe-

7

I

old diftrclTcd courtier,

difrefpeft.

ment of confcience, but alfo boldly, hopihgly, con-

Ilally execution ; fpeedy performance.
Atfii^lcd dtjpatih is one of the a\uH dangerous
Bacm,
things to buiir.efs that lan be.

Addifcn.

adj.

lity predominating in a high degree.

Sbakffpcari.

1 .

.

[from defpife."] Contemptible; defpicable ; regarded with,
contempt. .\ word fcarcely ufed but ia.
low converfation.

De'sperately. adv. [ from defperate. ]
1.

-

And gentle poets to her arms invites.

Despi'sable.

It is fometimes ufed in a fenfe nearly

What, arc the brothers parted ?
They hivedijfutci'd with Pompcy ; he 15 gone.

Despa'tch. «./. [from the verb.]

Nor vainly rich, nor defpicably poor ;
The town in foft folcmnities delights.

any

ludicrous, and only marks any bad qua-

»tiidtfpaUh\.\i^mv,'\X.ht.W\t{vioxii. Ezik.xxiW.^j.

;

Here wanton Naples crowns the happy (hore.

hot-brained ; furious.
;
Were it not the part of a dijpcrate phyficlan to

£dmund, I think, is gone.

Decay of Piety.

De'spicably. adv. [from dejpicable.'\
Meanly ; fordidly vilely.

Pope to Sivijt.

wi(h hij friend dead, rather than to apply the bcft
endeavours of his (kill for his recovery ?
Spenfer^s Stale oj Ireland.

reward and ihc dejpicahlenejs of pur

fervice.

Mad

In pity of his mifery, to dtffalcb
His knighted life.

1 (hail

.

other fortune than in friends.

5,

And the company (hall

for I never aimed at

whofe friends are dead ;
4..

death.

;

the earth, before they are dead, and left there.
Locke.
I am a man of dejperate fortunes, that is, a man

lulus' abfence could no longer bear,
Dcffatch'd Achates to the Ihips in hafle,

To fend out of the world;

We confider the great difproportlon between the
infinity of the
,

Temfle.

2.

nefs.

irre-

Sbakefpenre.
for a mad man owes them.
In a part of Afia the fick, when their cafe comes
to be thought </t/jt>fr<!rf, are carried out and laid on

Doflor Theodore Coleby, a fober man, I difpatched - immediately to Utrecht, to bring the
moxa, and learn the exaS method of ufing it.

To give a glad relation of the part.

unfurmountable ;

coverable.

To DESPA'TCH. -v. a. [depefchir, Fr.]
1. To fend away haftily.

The good JEncis, whofe paternal care.

innocent man can be, whatever low (latioo his fortune and birth have placed him in.
jiddijan,

Hammovd.

Boyle.

ciety.

render thcmfelves more vile and defpkahU than any

reforming, fuch an one we vulgarly call a dejperate

.

In a manner betokening hopeleffnefs or
defpondency.
He fpeaks feverely and dijfair'itigly of our fo-

jiddifon.

When men of rank and figure pafs away their
lives in criminal purfuits and pra^ices, they

perfon, and that fare is a moft damning (in.

Sptsjtr,

Despa'irincly adv. [ircm defpatring.'\

Drydeiu
All the quiet that could be cxpefied from, fuch a
reign, muft be the refult of abfohjte power on the.
one hand, and a diJpUabie (lavery on the other.

De'spicableness. ». /. [from defpicarSbnkefpeare.
And live a fubjcft ?
He who goes on without any care or thought of
He.]
Meannefs ; vilenefs j worthleff-

Sidniy.

Irilh

burials, with dejfiairful outcries.

Milut.

Not lefs cv'n in this defpicabU hero.

Or be a known friend 'gainft his higbnefs' pleafore.
Though he be grown fo dijpcrate to be honefl.

favour of the
Other cries amongft
Scythiaa barbarifm ; as the lamenutions of their
the

Hooker.

Than when my name (hook Africk with a(&ight,
And froze your hearts beneath your torrid zone.

tant ; fearlefs of danger.
Can you think, my lords.
That any Englilhman dare give me counfel.

He cheers the fearful, and commends the bold,
And makes dtjfairtn hope for good ucccfs. Drsi-

fon« or things.
Our cafe were miferable, ifthat wherewitKwe
molt endeavour to plcafe God were in his fight fo
vile and dejpicaile as men's difdainful fpecch would

Without care of fafety ; ra(h ; precipi-

2.

without hope.

fordid j

;

Of defpicah/e foes.

Since his cxiie (he hath defpis'd me moft
Forfworn my company, and rail'd at me.
That I am dcfperate of obtaining her. Sbjiefpeere.

WaU.

Despa'irer. n. f. [from defpairS\ One

mean

AH th' earth he gave thee to polTefs and rule.
Ml/tar.
No dejpkahle gift.

Without hope.

1.

;

Their heads as low
B^w'd down in battle,^ funk before tlie fpears

We commend the wit of the Chinefe, who de- DE'SPERATE. adj. [de/peratus, Latin.]
(ta'ir «/ making of gold, but are mad upon making
Boitm.
•r fijvcr.
Never (/f/jsair c/'Cod!5 bleffings here, or of his
begun.
reward hereafter; but go on as you have

vile

h applied. equally to per*

make it.

tion of bufinefs.
So faying, with drfpiitchful \0nk3 in hade
She turns, on hofpitabie thoughts intent. Afiltcn.
L^ one difpiitcbfu! bid fome fwain to lead
A well fed bullock from the gra(ry mead. Pcpe,

before a noun.
Though thou drewcft a fword at thy friend, yet

It

thinkers.

Sivifr.

DESPI'TE. n.f. [fp:jt,Datchi de'pit.Fr.]
I.

Malice;

anger;

malignity}

malici-

oufnefs ; fplcen ; hatred.

Thou wretch

!

dejpiie o'erwlielm thcc !

ibakefpeire.

,

D E S

D E S

'Wth men the(e confiderations .-.re nfually the
-caufcs o( deffue, difdaln^ or avcrfion from others;
but with God they pafs for reafons of our greater
,

2.

The life, tliou gav'ft inc firft, was loft and done
Till with thy war like fword, deffjre of fate,
Tomydetermin'd time thou gav'ft new date. Shah

My life thou (halt command, but not my fhame
The one my duty owes; bu: my fair name,

To diveft by any accident.

Simply to llrip

3.

in a

not in ufe.

:

.

Despo'ticalness.

A groom 'gjn de'pcil
OfpuilTant arms, and laid in ealy bed.

To DESPU'MATE. f

defperate.

have not quitted yet a vi«£lor's right
-I*il make you happy in your own defpUe, Drydar*
Say, would the tender creature, in de/ftte
Of heat by day, and chilling dews by night.
Blacimere.
Its life maintain ?
Thou, with rebel infolence, didft dare
To own and to protedt that hoary ruffian ;
And, in deff.iit ey'nof tby father's jufticc.
Rowt.
To ftir the faftious rabble up to arm',
I

It is every man's

duty to labour in his cabling,
and not to dijprd for any mifcarriages or difappointments that were not in his own power tu
Prs^'^nt-

3. Aft of malice ; aft of oppofition.

Despi'teful.

atij.

Malicious ; full of fpleen ; full of hate ;
malignant ; mifchievous : ufed both of
perfor.s

and things.

deffUeful Juno, fcnt him forth
From courtly friends with camping foes to live,
I, his

Where death and danger dog the heels of worth.
Shakrjpearf,

Preferve \a from the hands of our drffittful ani
Jeadly enemies.
^'"F Charlii.
Mean while the heinous and defyittfuri&.
Of Satan, done in Paradife, was known
In heav'n.
M}llen.

Despi'tefully. aJ-v, [ham de/piteful.]
Malicioufly ; malignantly.
Pray for them that drfpiitfullj ufe you and perfecute you.
Matthnv, v. 44.

Despi'tefulness. n. /,
Malice

[ frtm

defpite-

hate ; malignity.
Let us examine him with drjfilcfulntjt and torture, that we know his meeknefs, and prove his

fttl.^

;

patience.

fVifd. ii. 19.

IJespi'teous.

adj. [from

Despi'teously. ad'v. [from defpittous
In a furious manner

:

.'\

not in ufe.

The mortal fteel deff'naujly entail'd
Deep in their flc(h, quite thro' the iron walls,
That a large purple (Iream adown their giambeux
falls.

ro DESPO'IL. 'V. a.
I.

To rob

Sfenfir.

[de/pollc,

Lat.]

[In theology.]
divine mercy.

2.

encourage the diffondng mind.

Ev';i now thy *d,
"lugene, with regiments unequal preft,
Awiits ! this day a/all his honours gain'd
Dc/poilt him, if t'ly fuccour oppoituDC
thleaiii not the fad hour.
FbUI'tpt.

At your def/irt bright pewter comes too late.

When your Ijrft couife was well lerv'd up in plate.
To DE'STINATE. -v. a. [defim, Lat.]''fo
defign for any particular end or purpofe.
Birds are dtftir.ated to Hy among the branches
trees and bulhes.

[de/poftdens,

pointed ; the ultimate defign.

The pafTagcs through which fpirits are conveyed
to the members, being almoft infinite, and

each of

them drawn through fo many meanders, it is wonderful that they (hould perform their regular

Lum.]

isatkrs without lofirg their way.

Defpairing ; hopelefs ; without hope.
It is well known, both fnim ancient
and modern experience, that the ve:y boldeft athcifts,
out
of their debauches and company, when they chance
to be furprifed with folitude or fickncfs,
«re the
moft fufpicious, timorous, and deffsndatt wretches
'

in the world.

Thci-e

by
2.

a.

[dep'no, Latin.]

To appoint to any ule or purpofe.

DryJ,

Too thin blood ftrays into the immediately fubordinate velTels, which are d.fmed to carry
^

other.

fecreted from the blond.

An abfolute

prince ; one that governs with unlimited

3.

authority.

This word is not in ufe, except as applied to fome Dacian prince
j
as, the d^fpot of Servia.
Despo'tical. 7 «<?>. [from z/^/^fl/.] AbDespo'tick. 3 folute in power; unlimited in authority ; arbitrary ; unac-

humourl

Ariutbtic, cr. Mmnls.

To devote ; to doom to puniilimcnt or
mifery
ufed ablblutely.
:

May heav'n around this dejlm'd head

The choiceft of its curfes /lied.
4.

Prior.

To fix unalterably.

The infernal judges dreadful pow'r
From the dark urn ihall throw thy dijliti'd hour.

De'stiny. n.f. {deftmee, French.]

God's univcrfal law
Guve to the man dtjpcikk power

I.

The power that fpins the life, and determines the fate, of living beings.

Over his female in due awe,
Nor from that right to part an hour.
Smile (he or lowre.

-v.

to devote; to appoint unal-

Wherefore ceafc we then ?
Say thay who counfel war : we arc decreed,
Referv'd, and d./liti'd to eternal woe
;
Whatever doing, what can we fufjer more?
A/;*.
All altars fjame; before each altar lies,
Drench'd in his gore, the dtfth'd facrifice.

reciprocal promifes of marriage.

DE'SPOT. »./ [Jj,^„i;.]

;

terably to any Hate or condition.

To DESPO'NSATE. -v. a. Idefponfi, Lat.]
iaiiite

To doom

1.

Sttitlcy.

to afHance ; to

rfey?,-

Clanvillr.

a great variety

To De'stine.

Congregated thru(hes, linnets, ftt

;

is

of apprehcnfions and
fancies of men, in tht drjliralion and application
of
tilings to fcveral ends ajid ufes.
I/alt.

On the dead tree, a dull dtffimdni flock. Ttmfn.

To betroth

of

Ray o„ tht Creatkn.

Dest:na'tion. ». /. [from def/natf.]
The purpofe for which any thing is ap-

Watts.

countable.

Drjd.

To give thee all thy due, thou haft the art
To make a fupper with a (ine Jf[rert.
Diydm.

Defpair; hopeleflnefs ; defperaticn.

Despo'ndent. adj.

n.f. [de/erte, French.] The
courfe at an entertainment; the

fruit or fweetmeats fet on the table
after
the meat.

Despo'ndency. »./. [from dejpondent.]

Spfnfer,

Into the queen's apartment takes his way.

To lofe hope of the

confcience, fome may allure the flothful, and fome

to deprive : witTi of.
Veffoird 0/ vnrVikc arms, and knowen (hield.

To

laft

L'Efirangc.

He confiders what is tlie natural tendency of
fuch a -virtue, or fuch a vice : he is well apprized
that the reprefentation of fome of thefe things
mav
convince the underftanding, fome may terrify the

;

You are nobly born,
Vih'/iled tf your honour in your life. Hhahffrart.
lie waits, with hellifh rancour im.-ninent.
intercept thy way, or fend thee back
Dej'ftild »/ innocence., of faith, of blifs.
Mihn.
He, pale as death, deJfcU'd of Wis an ay,

A term of chirurgery^

:

Ma- Desponsa'tion. It. f. [from de/pon/ale.]
The aft of betrothing perfons to each

defpite.'\

A

licious ; forions.
word now out of ufe.
The knight of the red-crofs, when him he fpicd
Sparring fo hot with rage difp'tmus,
"Can fairly couch his fpcar.
Fair^ ^nr.
Turning defpitecui torture out of door. ' Shaktjp.

parts in fcum or foam.

Desse'rt.

and /u/l.]

[tie/fite

n.f. [from defpumate.]

The aft of tlwowing oiFexcrementitious

vidence has given us for a guide ; ard then, when
we have done our own parts, to commit all chearfully, for the reft, to the good pleafure of heaven,

Others deprefs their own mi'nds, dcfpcnd at the
firft di(Sculty;
and conclude, that making any
prpgrefs in knowledge, f .rthcr than fervcs their ordinary bufinefj, is above their capacities.
Locke.

to give

to froth ;

;

Desquama'tion. n. /. [{rom. /quanta,
Latin.]
The aft of fcaling foul bones.

Phyfick is their bane

Saturn, with his wife Rhea, ded by night ; fetting the lown on fire, to dcMie Bacchus. Ra/figh.

DEspuMA'-notf.

The learned leaches in defpair depart.
And (hake their heads, dtff ending ot thtir art. Dryd.

MlUor.

[de/pumo, Lat.]

furer remedy for fuperftitious and
dcjfond'mg weakn«»'s, than tirft to govern ourlelves
by the beft irapt«vement of that rcafon which pro-

with truft and refignation.

To Despi'te. -v. a. [from the noun.] To

«.

from

Fr.

to work.

L-EJIrapge.

.

There is no

.

To throiv oiF parts in foam

.

vex ; to offend ; to difappoint ;
uneaCnefs to.

n. /.

DispoLl a'tion. «. / [from defpoUo, LaV,] De'spotism. n.f. [defpotifme,
The aft of defpoiling orftripniner.
defpot.']
Abfolute power.

To DESPO'ND. -v. a. ideffondco, Lat.]
my grave,
To dark difiionour's ufe thou (halt not hxrt. Shai. 1 Tc defpair ; to lofe hope ; to become
Know I will ferve the fair in thy diffite. DryJ.
hopelefs or

His punifliment, eternal milery.
It would be all his folace and revenge.
As a dtffitc done againft the Moft High,
Thee once to gain companion of his woe.

[from dcfpotiAbfolute authority.

(«/.]

Sfieafer.

Di/'file of death, that lives upon
'

Crifons, the common people among the latter ate
much batter fituation.
Addifon,
Patriots were forced to give way to the ni idnefs
of the people, who were now wholly bent upoa
fingle and dr/poikk fiaverj.
.Sivfc,

Thefc formed ftoncs, </f//i«'W 0/" their (hells, and
expofed upon the furface of the ground, in time
moulder away,
K^ocdieard.

Spratt,

tenderness towards 'thers.

3. Defiance ; unlubdue.d oppodtion.

D E 5"

Thou art neither like thy fire or damBut, like a foul mif-(hapen ftigmat'ck,
Mark'd by the drfthncs to be avoided.

Milroti.

In all its directions of the inferior faculties,
reafon conveyed its fuggeftions with clearncfs,

and

enjom'-d them witii power :

it had the paffions in
perfcfl fubjcflion ; though its command over them

was but pcrfualive and political, yet it had the force
of coaflive and dr/foikal.
Scrub.

We may fee in a neighbouring government the

confcqucnces of having a dcfpotkk prince
for
j
notv/ithftanding there is vaft ex:cnt of lanrfs, and
ill

many of Uieia better ihaa Uinfc «f the SwiU and

Shakcfptart.

z.

Fate ; invincible neceffifcy.
He faid, dear daughter, rightly may I rue
The fall of famous children born of me
'
But who can turn the ftveam of
dcftiyi.
Or break the chain of ftrong necfliity,
Which fa!i is tied to Jove's ;:ternal feat? F^thy
•

How can hearts, not free, be tried whether
fervc

Willin?: or no,

9

tW
a

who will but what they m\i{i

By deji.nj, and c«] no o her chufe?
3

^ a

Uilien.

H*i

D E T

D E S

D E S
Had th; great tiiftmy but g]vcn thee ficill

At random wounds, nor knows the wound ibe givet.
Poft.

We fee in all things how iefuetude ioet contraft

dtjiruo,

and narrow our faculties, fo that we can apprehend

Chance, or forceful dijimy.

Which formi \a caufet fait whatc'cr ihall be.

DESTRU'CTIBLE. adj.

DryJin

Doom

into

the face nf the eaith,

Murder

lioekcr.

mafTacre.

Nothing can he a greater intt^nce of the love
that mankind has for liberty, than fuch a favage
mrunuin covered with people, and the Campania
of Rome, which lies in the fame country, Jeftitute
c/* inhabitants.
MJlfrr.

Des tito'tion. w. /. [from deftituie.'\
Want the ftate in which fomething is
impediment, as, till it be removed, fuff'erelh not
the mind of man to admit any other care. Hociir.
They which want furtherance unto knowledge,
are not left in fo great dtJIUutkn, that juftly any
man fliould think the ordinary means of eternal
life taken from them.
Hoohr.
The order of paying the debts of contrail or reAitution is fet down by the civil laws of a kingdom ; indeJUtution or want of fuch rules, we are to
obfcrve the neceflity of the creditor, the time of the
delay, and the fpecial obligations of friend Ihi p.

French.]
overturn a city ; to raze a build-

To

1

ing ; to ruin.
The Lord will deflrcy this city.

To lay wafte

ruin and devaftation ; that which brings

and they fucceeded them, and dwelt in their Head.
Deut. ii. 21.
'Tis Cifer to be that which we defircy.

Than by deftrufiion dwell in doubtful joy. Shak,
The wife Providence hath placed a certain antipathy between fome animals and many infef^s,
whereby they delight in their dcllruftion, though
thry ufe them not as food } as the peacock d<firiyi
fnakes and adders ; the wcafel, mice and rats ;
fpiders, flici j and fome forts of Hies dtfiroy fpiders.
Halt.

4.

To put an end to

to bring to nought.
Do we not fee that flithful, intemperate, and
incontinent perfons dijiny their bodies with difeafcs, their reputations with difgrace, and their
iaculcin with want i
Bcntlcy.
There wiU be as many fovereigns as fathers
the mother too hath her title, which dtfroyi the
foveteignty of one fupreme monarch.
Locke.
;

Destro'ver. n. f. [from dcftroy.']
perfon

that

The

dellroys or lays walle ;

a

2.

With of.
a

Addijott.

politcnefs.

Poth are defeats equally dtftruHivc n/true reliKogert.

gion.

3.

With to.
In a firm building, even the cavities ought not
to be filled with rubbilh, which is of a perifhablc
Drydm.
kind, dcflruUiiie to the ftrength.
Excefs of cold, as well as heat, pains us ; bccaufe it is equiilly dejtru^ive to that temper which
Lockt.
is necefliry to the prefervation of life.

Destru'ctively.
ti've.'\

If ten men are in war with forty, and the latter
detach only an equal number to the engagement,
what benefit do they receive from their fuperio-

Mdijon,

rity ?

A

body of troops Tent out from the roaia
army.
The czar difpatched inftruflions to fend out
detachmnis of his cavalry, to prevent the king of
Tatler, No 55.
Sweden's joining his army.
Befides materials, which arc brute and blind.

Who for the ta(k Owuld fit dttacbmatti chufe
From all the atoms ?

O that men were not fo drjlruli'mtly foolifh

To DETA'IL.

Decay cf Piety.

Destru'ctiveness. n.f. [from defiruc-

The quality of deftroying or ruin-

ing.

Blackmort.

To

[detainer, Fr.]

The vice of profcfTors exceeds the dtfiruHivenefs
mod hollilc alTaults, as intcfline treachery

They will perceive the miltakes of thefe pbilofophers, and be able to anfwcr their arguments,
without my being obliged to detail them. Cbeynt.

Deta'ii..

De:ay of Piety.

n.

f.

[detail, Fr.]

A minute

and particular account.

more ruinous than foreign violence.

Destru'ctor. n.f, [from /(t/?rff)i.i De-

to

difplay minutely and diftindly.

of the

I chufe,

rather than trouble the reader with a

detail here, to defer them to their proper place.

tVoodtvaritm

was unable to treat this part nf my fubjed
more in detail, without becoming dry and tcdiout*

ftroyer ; confuraer.

I

Helmont wittily calls the fire the deJIruHtr and
the artificial death of things.

-v. a.

relate particularly ; to particularife ;

!

Boyle,

Pofe,

A

To DETA'IN. t;. a. [detinco, Lat.]
1. To keep that which belongs to mother.

De'suetude. n.f. \defuttudo, Lat.] Cef-

Mtlm,

To fend out part of a 'greater body of
men on an expedition.

Did not this work require a knowing mind.

was the fon of Sbcm, and Alfur the diflrcyir was
an AITyrian.
Raliigh.

Triumph, to be llyl'd greatfConquerort,
Patrons of mankind, gods, and font of gods!
Oiftreytri righUier call'J, and Aayeri of men.

and terrcftrial matter, which it dtiacbes from the
IVoodtvard.
uppermofl flratum.
The feveral parts of it are detached one from the
other, and yet join again one cannot tell how. Pcfe,

[from dtftruc-

ad-v.

•What remains but to breathe out Mofes'swifh ?

is

part

to

Ruinoufly ; mifchievoufly ; with

power to deilroy.

tive.']

to difengage ;

feparate ;

Deta'chment. n.f, [horn dttacb.']

profufe and inordinate fwcating, from
what caufe foever.

it

To

praftice,

which makes our moft refined diverCons dijlrufilvc

Halt.

from fomething.
The heat takes along with it a fort of vegetative

2.

He will put an end to fo abfurd

may be undcrllood, that AITur the founder

h is faid, that AfTurboth founded it and ruined
4 it :

laws of other countries.

To DETA'CH. -v. a. [detacher, Fr.]

In ports and roads remote,
DiJIriiUme fires among whole fleets we fend.
Drydin,
One may think that the continuation of exiftence, with a kind of refinance to any dejiruEl'we
Lccke.
force, is the continuation of folidlty.

Desuda'tion. n.f. \defudatio, Lat.]

murderer.

Laws, if convenient and ufeful, are never the
worfe though they be defatncd and taken from tho

1

to deftruftion.

Brcwn.

rations.

low

\_deJiruQi'vus,

That which dellroys ; wafteful ; caufing

;

A people, great and many, and tall as the Anakims j but the Lord dtjinytd them before them,

They have left us relations fuitable to thofc of
Julian and Pliny, whence they dejumcd their nar-

Latin.]
1.

fl/" all

To kill.

3.

to it,

[In theology.]
Eternal death.
Broad is the way that Icadeth to de/lruftlon.

Gen, rix. 14.

to make defolate.
Solyman fent his army, which burnt and dtthe
Jlrvitd
country villages.
KntlUi,

2.

This pebble doth fuppofc, as pre-exillcnt

the more fimple matter out of which it is dejumtd,
the heat and influence of the fun, and the due prelisle.
paration of the matter.

Matihtiv.

Latin;

defiruire,

To

PJalm xci. 6.

Taylor,

DESTRO'Y. <y. a. [Jejiruo,

To

To Desu'me. 1;. a. [dcfumo, Lzt'in,]
take from any thing ; to borrow.

;

Destru'ctive. adj.

my mind, witliout being reduced to
and raarlhalled according to art.

as they rife in
rules,

:

That dcJUtui'um in food and rloathing is fuch an

.

Nfrrii*

Take my difuJiory thoughts in their native order,

Felten cm the Cla^ikt*

IValter.
And tremble yet, as not fecure.
4. The caufe of deftruftion ; a deftroyer
a depopulator as a confuming plague.
The deJiruCiion that walleth at noon-day.

5.

applied to perfons.

:

away in purfuit of the new game.

We faw fo near deJlruBion brought.
We felt what you did then endure.

;

wanted

L'EJtrangt.

way, and his

defuliorious fancy prefently takes the fcent, leaves
the unfinilhcd and half-mangled notion, and fkips

Jf that your moody difcontented fouls

Tiryjn,

immethodical ; un-

to qualify an e/Tedual converfion.
Let but the leafl triRe crofs his

Shak.

Do through the clouds behold this prefcnt hour,
Even for revenge mock my dcjlrujfion. Sbakejp.
When that which we immortal thought,

T-iUe the HeftinM %vay

To iinj the regions JiJIirutroi djy.

;

Defultoricus is not in ufe.
'Tis not for a dejulttry thought to atone for a
lewd coutfe of life; nor for any thing but tl;e fupcrinducing of a virtuous habit upon a vicious one,

murder fuffered.

In want of.

unfettled

conftant.

The ftate of being deflroyed 5 ruin

3.

He will t< gild the prayer of the ilr/!lrutr, and
not defpife their prayer.
PijIk cii. 17.
3.

;

'Tis fafrr to be that which we deftroy,
TKan by di-JtiuSIion dwell in doubtful joy,

Abjeft ; friendlefs.

2.

thing ;

molition.
2.

as

? <"^' [defultariits, Lat.]

Desulto'rious. j Roving from thing to

DtsTRu'cTiON. n. f. \dcJlrueilo, Latin.]
1. The aft of deftroying; fubverfion; de-

men, either dcf.\iate »f %m^ divine, may commit,
or unpotefted fr m abive, may endure.

only thofe things wherein we areconvcrfant.
Government of the 7crgue.

Liablencfs to deftruftion.

tible.']

Forfaken ; abandoned : with of.
To fjrfalte the true God of heaven, is to fall
all fuch evils upon

from

Destructi bi'lity. n.f. [from dejlruc- De'stJLTORY.

;

:

1

[

Liable to deftruAion.

Latin.]

condition in future time.
At the pit (if Acheron
Meet me i' th' morning thither he
Wi 1 eome to know his tl^/firy,
Shaielfiare,
DE'STITUTE. aJJ. [dejiituiuj, Latin.]
3.

with birbarifm and difuttvir, from their former
Halt.
civility and knowledge.

Yet, guiltlefj too, this bright dtjirtyir UvM (

To know, as well as pow'r to a<l,her will. Dnb,

fation to be accuftomed ; difcontinuance

Detain not the v.Mgcs of the hireling j for every
degree of detention of it, beyond the time, is injuftice and uncharitablenefs.
laylnt.,

To withhold

of praftice or habit.
By the irruption of nuffleroui armies of barba-

; to keep back.
Thefe doings fting him
So vcnomouHy, that burning fhame detains him

rous people, thofc countries were quickly fallen efi',

From his Cordelia.

2.

Stakifpiari.

He

D E T

D E T

The ladles may net be deterred from correlponding with me by this method.
j^dd'ifon.
My own face deters me from my glafs j

In thofe errors they are fo determinate/y fettled,
that they pay unto fallity the whole fum of whathooker.
foever love is owing unto God's truth.

D E T
He has defcribed the paflion of Calypfo, *id the
indecent advances (be made to Jitain him Irom his
Brxme.
countrfi

And K.neller only fecws what CelJa was.

To reftrain frorr departare.

3.

Let us rfcMfu thee until we fliill have made ready
J'l^g'h "'"• '5a kid.
Had Orpheus fung it in the nether fphere,
S3 much the hymn had pkas'd the tyrant's ear.
The wife had been ^.aa'm'd tu keep her hulkand
Vrjdtr..

there.

To hold in cuftody.

4.

Deta'inder. «. /. [{rom detain.'] "The
name of a writ for holding one in cXiltody.

To DETE'RGE. -v. a.

Prior.

[deterge, Lat.]

2.

To

cleanfe a fore ; to purge any part from

truth and exiftence of t'ninijs is already fixed and
fettled, and that the principles of religion are already either determinate/y true or falfe, before you

feculence or obftrudlions.
CondJer the part and habit of body, and add or
diminiih your iimples as you deiign to deterge or
incarn.
IViJeman.

Sea

preferves

fait

bodies,

through which

it

padeth, from corruption j and it detergrth the vefieis, and keeps the fluids from putrefaction.
Arbuthnot.

think of them.

DeT

which cleanfes.
The food ought to be nourifliing and detergent.

Judge of the obligation that lies upon all forts of

Arbuthr.ot.

injurious perfunsj the facritcgious, the Jiiajn^rs of
tithes, and cheaters of men's inheritances. Tajliir.

Deterioba'tiok. n. f. [from deter:or,
The aft of making any thing
Lat.]

ro DETE'CT. 'v. a.

To difcover

1.

to find oat any crime or

;

by no means confift with a
conftant determination of will or defire to the greatL'-^cke,
eft apparent good.

To difcover in general.

a.

The utmoll infinite ramificatinns and inofculationsof all the feveril forts of veiTcIs may eafily be
Ray.
dtttatd by glades.

Dete'cter. n. /.

[from, deted.]

A dif-

obeying you.

Brozvti'i

liot I the daiSler.

Sbakiffmre.
Hypocrify has a ftcret hatred of its deitCltr ;
will
bring
teft
which
it to a
it cannot
that which

dilagree.

Difcovery of guilt or fraud, or any other

purity.

Shukifpeare.

That is a fign of the true evangelical zeal, and
note for the dtnlikn of its contrary : it IhouM
abound more in the mild and good-natured affections, than in the vehement and wrathful pafltons.

It is much difputed by divines, concerning the

power of man's will to good and evil in the l^ats
of innocence ; and upon very nice and dangerous
precipices ftand thsir detertninatiin^on either fide.

Souths
Confult thy judgment, affiftions, and ir.clinav
tlons, and make thy determination upon every particular ; and be always as fufpicious of thyfelt as

Judicial decifion.
He confined the knowledge of governing to juf-

and lenity, and to the fpeedy determination of
Guirfvers Travels.
and criminal caufes.
Dete'rminative. adj. [irom. determitice

nate.]

That which uncontroulably direfts to at.

1.

certain end.
That individual a£Kon, which is juftiy punifhed.

To limit

;

as finful in us, cannot proceed from the fpecial influence and dcterminati've power of a juft caufe.

to fix ; to deter-

Bramhall againji Hobhes,

tin.]

If the term added to make up the complex fubjeft does not ncced'arily or conftantly belong to it,
then it is determinatim, and limits the fubjeft to a

Settled; definite; determined.

particular part of its extenfion; as, every

1.

Demonftrations in numbers, if they are not
more evident and exad than in extenfion, yet
they art: more general in their ufe, and determi-

SfrJt!.

That which makes a limitation.

2.

Dete'rmin ATE. adj. [determinatus, Lz-

of loofe difcourfes
was wholly owing to the fyll0giftic.1l form. Leek.'.

man (hall be lappy.

They have rccourfc unto the great determinator
of virginity, conceptions, fertility, and the infcruBrtnvn,
table infirmities of the whole body.

To make lUl the planets move about the fun in
circular orbs, there muft be given to each, by a Jetcrmir.jte impulfe,

inflrumental to the deteSien of amber, and other
fofiils, by wailing away the earth and dirt that
concealed them.
H^oodtvard.

Dete'ntion. n. /. [(torn detain.]
I. The a£V of keeping what belongs to

3. Confinement ; reftraint.
This w.irketh by diteniion of the fpitits, and

never yet the tragick ftrain alTay'd,
Dtliri'd by thy inimitable maid.
Waller.
Many and potent enemies tempt and deter us
our
duty
yet
our cafe is not hard, fo long as
from
j

we have a greater ftrength on our fide.
Tilbijon.
Beauty or ur.becomingncfs are of more force to
draw or dtler imiution, than any difcourfes which
«aa be made to them.
Luke.

To fix

4..

5.

Shakeffi.

Fixed ;

a

refolute.
Like men difufed in a long peace, more deter-

minaie to do, than Ikilful how to do.

Siakefjfteare.

jIddifoMi

.

UeftruClion hangs on every word we fpeak.
On every thought, till the concluding ftroke
jiddifon^
Determines all, and clofes our dcfign..

nate.]
3.

To bound

;

to confine.

The knowledge of men hitherto hath been detir-

of raging agonies, and determinate/y bent that
Ihe would Icck al] loving mcaat to win Zclm:Mii'.
full

Sidniy.

Souths

Milton's fubjeft was ftill greater than Homer's
or Virgil's : it does not determine the late of fiiigle
perfons or nations, but ot a whole fpecies.

D E T e' R M N A T E L y adv. [from determiRefolutcly ; with fixed refolve.
The queen obeyed the king's commandment,

to fix ultimately.

fide.

My determinate voyage i» mere extravagancy.

I.

;

Probability, in the nature of it, fuppofcs that
thing may or may not be fo, for any thing that

yet appears, or is Certainly determined, on the other

Sidney.

Refolved.

I

It is

To conclude

2.

mean the bilhop, did require a refpite.

1

to fettle.

Is it concluded

I

r tir p.ogtcfs of this bufmcfs.
Ere a dtterm'tnate refolution, he,

;

he (hall be proteftor ?
determindy not concliided yet ;
Sha\»
But f it muft be, if the king mifcarry.
More particularly to determine the proper feil'un
made
a
be
how
can
it
for grammar, 1 do not fee
ftudy, but as an introduction to rhetorick. Locke*

—

Decifive ; conclufive.

3.

y» DETE'R. v, a.

1

determino, Lat.]
1

fettled by rule ; pofuive.
Scripture; arc read before the time of divine
fervice, and without eitht^r choice or flint appointed by any determinate order.
liooktr.

Bac^n.

[deieneo, Lat.] To
difcourage by terrour ; to fright from
any thing.

To DETE'RMINE. 'v. a. [determiner, Fr.

2. Eftablilhed ;

anoth^.

How goes the world, that I am thus encount'red
"With clam'rous claims of debt, of broken bonds,
And the detentKn of long fince due debts,
Agiinft my honour ?
Sbakefpeare.

thofe prefent particular degrees

of velocity wiiich they row have, in proportion to
their diftauccs from the fun, and to the quantity
Bentley,
of the folar matter.

pious
fVaifs.

DETERMiNA'xaR. n. f. [from determinate.] One who determines.

Locke.

nate in their application.

2. Difcovery of any thing hidden.

Not only the fca, but rivers and rains alfo, are

Calamy-

polTiblc.

3.

to terminate : not in ufe.

The fly- [low hours ihall not determittate
The datelefs limit of thy dear exile. Shukeffeare.

DeftH'tin of the incoherence

cunftipation of the tangible parts.

The proper adls of the intellcdl are intclleflion,

B^.yle.

,

French.]

mine ;

fault.
Should I come to her with any ^.ntlion in my
hand, 1 could drive her then from the ward of her

and trouble you no-

Sbakcheare'! Merchant of Venice.

deliberation, and dcterminaticn ov decifion.
Bale's Origin of Mankind.

To DETE'RMINATE. -v. a. [determiner,

Dete'ction. n. /. [from delta.]
1

Vulgar Erroun,

About this matter, which feems fo eafily determinable by Icnfc, accurate and feber men widely

Dtcaj of Fitly.

go home,

to
.

civil

tongue, feme, and lame others.

that this treafoD were not ; or

pafs.

which is
more.

tion,

WhMhcr all plants have feeds, were mote ealily
d/ttrminahle, if we could conclude conceding harts-

refolution taken.

;

They have acquainxd me with their deternsinj-

Boyle.

Detc'rmin ABLE. adj. [fmm determine.]
That which may be certainly decided.

coverer ; one that finds out what another
!

formed

ufed.
This will not be thought a difcouragement unto
fpirits, which endeavour to advantage nature by
art; nor will the ill fuccefs of fomc be made a
fuflicicnt determent unto others. Broions ^i^^g' ^tr.
Thcfe are not all the determtnti that oppoled my

deiires to hide.

Oh, heavens

The refult of deliberation ; conclufion

2.

Caufe
of difcouragement ; that by which one
is deterred.
A good word, but not now

There 's no true lover in the foreft ; elfe fighing
every minute, and groaning every hour, would ticShak.
ttH the lazy foot of time as well as a dock.
Though ihould 1 hold my peace, yet thou
what
I
cafily
Huc^
conceal.
Millcn.
Wonldft

Abfolute direftion to a certain end.
When Wi voluntarily wafte much of our lives,

Dete'rment. «. y. [from deter.]

artifice.

[from determi-

that remiffncfs can

worfe ; the ftate of growing iVorfe.

[deteaus, Lat.]

Tillor/on.

r M I N a't ion. n. /.

nate. ]
1.

Deta'iner. n.y; [from detain.'] He that Dete'rgent. adj. [iroTH deterge .] That
holds back any one's right ; he that detains any thing.

Certainly ; unchangeably.
Think thus with youileives, that you have not
the making of things true or falfe ; but that the

•

mintd by the view or fight ; fo that whatliicvcr i»inviliblc, either in rcfpeil of the fincnefs oi the
bodx-

D E T
+oi)r itfelf, ot the finillnefs of the inrtt, or of the
fubtiity of the motion, is little enquired.

Bacun.

1 he principium indlvidiiationrs is exiftence itwhicli JiicnKwrs a bi-ing at any fort to a partKular time and place, incommunicable to two be"
ings of the fiinc kind.
Locke.
No foorer have they climbed that hill, which
•us Jctermina their view at a diftance, but a new
fclfj

profpeft is opened.

Toadjuft;

4.

Dete'rsive. n. f. An application

We

frequently fee fimp'.e ukcrs aifllcted with
(harp humours, which corrode them, and render
them painhil fordid ukers, if not timely relieved

bv del.rj!iict and Icnicnts.

hate ; to abhor ; to abominate.
Nigh thereto the ever-damned beaft

to limit; to define.

their differences one from another, which it really
diiVingnilhing.
Lulit.

To influence the choice.
You have the captive*

DeteJI my bafenefs.

Who wct« the oppofitcs of this day's ftrife
We do require them of you, fo to ufe them
Ai we (hall find their merits and our fafety

Jonatlian knew that it was Jtiermincd of his father to (lay David.
1 Ham. xx. 33.

To decide.
:

to dttcrmiti! this cither

way,

is

To put an end to

8.

;

South,

Who dares think one thing, and another tell.
My heart dete^i him as the gates of hell. Pefe.
Dete'stable. ad;', [from detej}.'\ HateBeguil'd, divorc'd, wrong'd, fpighted, (lain

Moft deieJIahU death.

Dete'rminE. 'V. n.

1.

To conclude

;

to

He deli red him to confider that both armies conof Chriftians, to whom nothing is more de~

fifted

lejlabie

Dete'stably. adv.

Milun.

It is
ly

inditfcrent to the matter in band which
the learned ihall ditcimitie of it.
Locke.

To end

3.

;

to come to an end.

They were apprehended, and,

after conviflion,

as moft I f the picafure of fin does, muft needs ditci-minc with that palTion.

Stulb.

To make a decifion.
Ditem::ni for her.

tion than pity.

Revolutions of Kate, many times, make way
for new inftitutions and forms ; and often determine
in either letting up fome tyranny at home, or
bringing in fome conqueft from abroad.
Temple.

To relblve concerning any thing.
Now, noble peers, the Cdufe why we aie met
Is to determine of the coronation.

Shakeffeare.

Deterr a'tion. a. f. [e/e and tc-rra, Latin ; <JV/^nYr, French.]

Difcovery of any

thing by removal of the earth that hides
it ; the aft of unburying.
This concerns the raifing of new mountains,
deterratim, or the devolution of earth down upon
th.e valleys from

It

is

Sidney.

fometimes ufed with for ; but of

feeras more proper.
The detejiation you ifxprefs
For vice in all its glitt'ring drefs.
S'cvifi.
Our' love of God will infpire us with a dctejiatim for fin, as what is of all things moft contrary
to his divine nature.

Sivlft.

hates or abhors.

To Dethro'ne. t. a. [detroner, French ;
de and thronus, Latin.] To divert of regality ; to throw down from the throne j

that lies againft him, who, having goods
Sbakcffcarc.

To end confequentially.

the hills and higlicr grounds.
PVtKtthvard.

Dbtb'rsion. »./. [from detergo, Latin.]

The ad of cleanfing a fore.
I

Then only did misfortune make her fee what

to deprive of regal dignity.

How honourably and how kindly we

6.

'\

Hatred; abhorrence ; abomination.

Deti'nue. «./. [flV/i^raf, French.] A writ

She foon (hall know of us

5.

1.

Dete'ster. »./ [from dtteft.] One that

the danger dittrminid by their deaths.
Hjywurd.
All plc:ifurc fpringing from a gratified pallion,

4.

South.

Detesta'tion. »./. \ixom deteft.

form a final conclu-

now ezped great tidings, which perhaps

enddvouifd ditrrjun, but the matter could

not be difchargei.

fyifem^n.

Dete'rsive. adj. [from deterge,^ Having the power to deanfe.

Bacon.

or chattels delivered him to keep, rcfules
Cotiell.
to deliver them again.
Deton a'tion. n./. [detone, Lat] Somewhat more forcible than the ordinary
crackling of falts in calcination ; as in
the going off of the pulvis or aurum
fulminans, or the like.
It is alfo ufed
for that noife which happens upon the
mixture of fluids that ferment with violence, as oil of turpentine with oil of
vitriol, refembling theexplofion of gun-

powder,

^incy.

A new coal is not to be caft on the nitre,

till

the detonation occafioned by the former be cither
quite or almoft altogether ended ; unlefs it chance
that the polling matter do blow the coal too foon
out of the crucible.
Boy/e.

To DE'TONIZE. -t/. a. [from detonc, Latin.]

To calcine with detonation.

A

chemical term.
Nineteen parts in twenty of detoniztd nitre
deftrojed in eighteen days.

No envy can delraH from this

:

it will fliine

Drjdn.

endures.

2.

in

To take away ; to withdraw.
By the largcneis of the cornices they hinder both
the light within, and likewife ditrsii much from
the view of the front without.
H'otion.
The multitude of partners does Jetraff nothing
from each private fliarc, nor does the publicknefs
of it

lert'en

propriety in

Bcylr.

it.

Detra'cter. n.f. [from deiraSl-l One
that takes

away another's reputation ;

one that impairs the honour of another
injurioufly.

It ftands here ftigmatized by the apoiKe as a

defires to make them worfe.

To fettle opinion.
'•

[from detejlabk.'\

Ihe had done, efpccially finding in us rather </rr^<:-

Of us will foon Jeiirmhc, or impufe
New laws to be obferv'd.
2.

Hayioard.

Hatefully ; abominably ; odioufly.

2.
!

than effufion of human blood.

l,<:ckc.

fieii.

Eve

!

Sbakeffeare.

to beg

Now •where is he, that will not ftay fo long
Till ficknefs hath ditermin'd me ?
SbaktJ'fcare.
?'o

abhorred ; abominable ; odious.

ful ;

temper of mind rendering raen fo deiejially bad,
that the great enemy of mankind neither can nor

to deltroy.

the reputation of another ; v/it.\\ front.
Thofcwerc alliftmcs in privite, but not trufted
to manage the affairs in publick ; for that would
detract from the hcnour of the principal ambalTa-

hiftory, and, like fwans, grow whiter the longer it

do not a& whether bodies fo exift, that the
motion of one cannot be without the motion of
another

To derogate ; to take away by envy,
calumny, or ccnfure, any thing from

1.

make him detefi it both in himfelf and others tio.

1

the queftion for or againft a vacuum.

To DETR A'CT. -v. a. {detrailum, Latin ;

dor.

To

7.

ShakiJ}eare.

Shahfptari.

A

and have dttorted texts

of fcrlpturc to the fedition, difturbance, and deftruftion of the civil government.
Dryden,

There is that naturally in the heart of man
which abhors fin as fin, and confequently would

;

man may fufpend the aft of his choice from
icing dittrmmd for or againft the thing propofed,
till hi has examined it.
Lockt.
As foon as the ftudious man's hunger and thirft
makes him uneafy, he, whofe will was never di/jrmineJ to any purfuit of good 'beer, is, by the
uncafmcfs of liunger and thirft, prefently dcitrmiatJ to eating and drinking.
Lickc.
6.
refolve.

They have afl'umed what amounts to an iafallia
hility in th= private fpirit,

detrailcr, French.]

Durft not approach \ for he was deadly made,
And all that life prcfcrved did det^. Fairy Sueen,
Glory grows guiity of detejied crimes.
When for fame's fake, for praife, an outward part,
Wc bend to that the working of the heart, ^hak.
I've livd in fuch dilhonour, that the gods

with names affixed to them, will be able todifcern

To DeTo'rt. 1;, «. [ddtrti/f, of detarju/t,
Latin.] To wreft from the original import, meaning, or defign.

fi'ifetHiin.

ToDETE'ST. -v. a. \deteftor, Latin.] To

jitttrbury.

Way equally rff/ermi/w.

that

has the power of cleanfing wounds.

He that lias fettled in his mi.nd<i'«/r'TiiW ideas,

5.

D E T

D E T

is

jlrhtbnot en jiir.

1 am right glad to be thus fatisfied, in that I
yet W.-IS never able till now to choke the mouth of

fuch detreBers with the certain knowledge of their
flandcrous untruths.

Spcnfer on Ireland,

Whetlier we are fo entirely fare of their loyalty
upon the prcfent foot of government, as you may
imagine, their detroBeri make a queftion. Swift*
Away the fair detraHer jwent.
And gave by turns their cenfures vent. Swift.

Det R a'ction. n.f. [detraiSio, Latin dc
;

traffion,

French.]

DelraSlion, in the native importance of the word,

the withdrawing or taking off from a
thing ; and, as it is applied to the reputation, it
denotes the impairing or Icftening a man in point
of fame, rendering him lefs valued and eftecmed
by others, which is the final aim of deiraBion.
fignifies

^ylifft.
I

put myfelf to thy direftion, and

Unfpcak mine own dctraffion ; here abjure
The taints and blames I laid upon myfelf.
For ftrangers to my nature.
Stakrffeare,
Fame, that her high birth to raife
Seem'd erft fo lavlfh and profufe,

Wc may juftly now accufe
Of detradion from her prarfe.
Miltoti.
If detraCiion could invite us, difcrction furely
would contain us from any derogatoiy intention.
Brown*

To put a flop to the infults and detraBions of
vain men, I tefolvcd to enter into the examination.
fVoodlvard*

To confider an author as the fubjeft of obloquy
and detracliont we may obferve with what pleauire
a work is received by the invidious part of mankind, in which a writer falls fliort of hirafilf.
j^Jdifon*

Detra'ctory. adj. [from dctraJl.] Defamatory by denial of defcrt ; derogatory. Sometimes with to, properly from.
This is not only derogatory unro the wifdom of
God, who hath propofed the world unto our knowledge, and thereby the notion of himfelf j but alfo
detraBory unto the intcllcft and lenfe of man, exprelTedly difpofed for that inquifition.
Brown.

In mentioning the joys of heaven, I ufe the expreliions 1 find lefs detraBory from a theme above
our praifes.

Boyle.
The detraBory lye takes from a great man the
reputation that julHy belongs to'him. .4rl>uth«ot.

Detra'ctress. n. r. [from detracl.] A
ccnforious woman.
li

with ordered to the lowtft place of the

To

room-

folds and conceals ; to difentangle ; to

Vunciad.

.

.

for one Chriftian church to
for
all had received and held

aboliih that which
that without any Athe fpace of many ages, and

Declivity ; declination.

'

.

ToDeve'st. t;. a.

That Jttrimnl, if fuch it be, to lofe

Mo

Devcfiing

them

whole myilery.

Detrime'ntal. atij. [from

To annul;

To free from any thing bad.
Come on, thou little inmate of this breaft.
Which for thy fake from pillions I dei'ejl. Prior.

.

Amon all honorary rewards, which are neither
donor, I rememdangerous nor dttrimirtiaUo the
titles which are beber none fo remarkable as the
China : thefe are never
ftowed by the emperor of
fubjefl tiU the fubjeft is d""!given

[devexus, Latin.] Bending down; declivous ; incurvated down-

DEVE'X.

tion downwards ; declivity.
To De'viate. 1'. n, [de "via decedere,

are detrimental

retire.
Either for fliame they ftill themfelves
dwell.
Or,' tied in chains, they in clofe prifon
Davtet.
fouls of
Philofophers are of opinion, that the
detruded into
for their mifcarriages, be

To go aftray

Ibompn.

the

*^"' H'"'fi ^'"•«'-

perfons, if inadvertently drawn into a
deviatiof, will endeavour inftantly to recover their

Worthy

dation.

Latin.]
deftruc-

ground, that they

fyisdward.

Deuce. »./ [deux, French.]
a word ufedin games.

You are a gentleman and a gamefter j then, I
am furc, you know how much the gtifs fum of

The devil.

SeeDeusi.

diabolical;

deftruftive.
Gynecia miftrufted greatly Cecropia, becaufe 'ftie
had heard much of the dcvi/ijh wickednefs of her

bhakijfearc.

Sidney.

heart.

.

For grief thereof, and devilijh defpight.
From his infernal furnace forth he threw

EiuoH'd in dulkifti fmjke and briraftonc blue.

He trains his dcviijh engin'ry, impal'd
2.

On ev'ry fide with ftiadowy fquadrons deep. Mill.
Having communication with the devil.
The ducliefs, by his fubornation.
Upon my life began her devilijh praflices. Shak.
!

fome, young, and blyth

all

;

thofe requifites arc in

Chrija.
de-vi/a,

Thy hair and bcaid are of a different dye.

_

[dill i/e,

French ;

Short of a foot, diftorted of an eye

A contrivance

;

With all th' fe toke-is of a knave complete.

a ftratagem.

Sbahfpeare.
intcreft,

An epithet of abhorrence or contempt,.
A i/TOii/Z» knave befides, the kna\e is hand-

3.

Shakefpearchim that delight.
in a li\dicrous fenfe.
4. Exceflive

He intended it ^ a politick device to Icffen their
2.

.

Huge flames, that dimmed all thehe.wen's light,

:

n. /.

By devajlatinn the rough warrior gains.
Garth.
That flood which overflowed Attica in the days
of Ogygcs, and that which drowned Theflaly in
Dt-ucalion's time, made cruel havock and dei'af-

may not bring error into

This is our device,
That Falftaff at that oak Ihall meet with us.

And farmers fatten moft when famine reigns.

3.

Partaking ot the qualities of the devil ;
mifchievous; malicious;,

1

Italian.]
1.

tion.

(/«« ace amounts to,

A Proverh.

De'vilish. «<^'. [from f/^i'//.]

Spenjcr,

Offence; obliquity of cpnduft.

3.

;

:

The devil was well, the devil i monk was he.

er-

of fingle charaflers, of letters, or by confufion of
Holder.
them.

loft

Two

verbial fcnfe.

Variation from eftabli(hed rule.

Dbturba'tion. n. /. [y*/ario, Latin.]
habit.
The aft of throwing down degrada- Devi'ce.
^"*-

I.

to err ; to fin ; to offend.

Having once furveyed the true and proper natural alphabet, we may eafily difcovcr the deviations
from it, in all the alphabets in ufe, either by defeft

|

From this detrufi'.n of the waters towards
much mthe parts towards the pole muft be

among them.

!

A

tracks, without making the Icall rfM-'idfion. Ckeyne.
t.

fide,

taii'.ti

The things, we know, are neither rich nor rare;
Pope*
But wonicr how the devi! they got there
kind of ludicrous negative in an adc.

Thefe bodies conftantly move round in the fame

privation of parts.

defolation ;

A

or vexation.

ronr ; wandering.

To DETRU'NCATE. -v. a. {^detrunco, Laby detin.] To lop ; to cut ; to ftiorten

havock ;

;

Devi a'tion. »./ [fiota deviate.]
I. The aft of quitting the right way ;

At thy-command the vernal fun awakes

Wafte ;

A war of profit mitigates the evil
Tut .0 betax'd, and beaten, is the divil. GrativHU]
kind of expletive, exprelling wonder
4.

Pofe.

ficiencies in the di£lion.

2.

*-»'*'•

Shakefptere.

_

A ludicrous term for mifchief.

of the author, it would be kind to obferve any de-

men may,

{de-vajlo,

So horrid as in woman.
3.

Dryden.
But Shadwell never deviates into fcnfe.
Thus Pegafus, a nearer way to take.
May boldly ^^^/tf^tf from the common track. Pope.
What makes all phyfical and moral ill ^
There nature deviates, and here wanders will. Pofe.
Befides places which may deviate from the fenfe

place.
Such as are detruded iovm to hell,

n. f.

Proper dif >rmlty fcems not in the fiend

To wander from the right or common
way.
The reft to fome faint meaning make pretence,

1

DETRU'DE.
To thruft down ; to force into a lower

Detrunca't ION. «./ [from </f*r«ffrfl//.]
The aa of lopping or cutting.
Detru'sion. «./. [from detrufio, Latin.]
The aft bf thrufting or forcing down.

A

Latin.]

away. Diil.
tin.] The aft of weariag
'V. a. {detrudo, Latin.]
To

The torpid fap, detruded to the root
By wiatry winds.

ei'dj.

the tempter and fpiri-

;

tual enemy of mankind.
Arc you a man ?
Ay, and a bold one, that dare look on that
Sbakefpeare*
Which might appal the devil.
wicked man or woman.
2.
See ihyMf, devil :

Deve'xity.w./ [from flVf«jr.] Incurva-

Obftiaacy ia prejudices, which
not to be miftakea for virto our country, ought
Mdijo^.
mind.
tuous refolution and firmnefs of
Detri'tion. »./. [dttero, detritus, I.3.-

were more properly written

A fallen angel

1

wards.

to any

It

[biopul, Saxon ; diabolus,

divel. ]

.'

.

the bodies of hearts.

Latin.

away any thing

What are thofe breaches of the law of nature
and nations, which do forfeit and devejl all right
Bacon.
and title in a nation to government
3.

Sbakcfpectre.

DE'VIL. ». f.

good.

detriment.-\
lofs.

to take

of noble device, of all fjrts cnch.mtingly be-

full

loved.

Derjham.
2.

Mifchievous ; harmful; caufing

H.'s gentle; never fchooled, and yet learned ;

His fword, his (hield, he tikes, and plumed crefts.

Evtlynt Kalendar.

Invention ; genius.

4.

Then of his arms Androgeus he devefts.

a night lefs than
Let a family bum but a candle
may take in die Spec
the ufual number, and they
their private affairs.
tator without ditriment to
jUdlJon.

Df.vasta'tion.

are of, by figures and defigns upon thefe fans ; aa
the knights. errant ufed to diftinguiih themfelves
Addifin^
by devices on their ftiields.

Shakejpeare.

for bed.

whi ch isthe

that whole year,

creafed.

They intend to let the world fee what party they

To

1

U

be neglefted

Prior*

Did.
French; de

ftrip ; to deprive of clothes.
Friends all but now.
In quarter and in terms like bride and groom

affairs of heli
your joint pow'r prevail, th
and be llrong. A/./r»«.
dttrimtnt need fear ; go,
things to be done
There often fall out fo many
them mull ot neceflity
on the fudden, that fome of

greateil detriment to this

[devefler,

and 'vefiis, Latin.]

I can repair

for

[de'vergentia, Lat.]

Deve'rgence. «./.

Hmker.

trimait unto religion.

Prcv. xix. 21.
a fliield ; the enfign
armorial of a nation or family.

Then change we (hieldf, and their devices bear;
Dryd.
Let fraud fupply the wantof force in war.
Hibernia's haip, rff^'ifc of her coif.mand.
And parent of her mirth, ftiall there be feen.

And hew the bbck off, aijd get out the man.

it muft be

ftand.

ftiall

The emblem on

3.

Take fiim to dmt!,f, if you can.

Lofs; damage; mifchief; dimitin.]
nntion ; harm.
„, .„.

n»-

a man's heart;

verthelefs the counfel of the Lord

clear from its covering.

DETRIMENT. ». / yctrlmentum, LaDifficult

There are many devices in

[developer, French.] I
(iiiengage from fomething that en-

To Deve'lop. -v. n.

charafler, unthe faid Jelr^flrifs (hall be forth-

If anVShall decraft from a lady's
lefs flie be abfent,

D E V

D EV

D E tr

and keep them low in the world.

A defign

;

If thou art honcft, th lu 'rt a devilijhcheat.

;

Thofe trumpeter* threatened them with conti-

Aitcrb.

nual alarroiof damnation, if they did not vcntur*
life, fortune, and all, in that which wickedly and
deviliply thofe impoftors called the caufe of Clod.
^outh,

a fcbeme formed; projeft ;

fpeculation.
Touching the exchange of laws in praftice with
laws in device, whicli they fay are better for the
ftate of the church, if th(ry might take place ; the
fartlier we examine them, the greater caufe we find
to conclude, although we continue the
are, the harm is not great.

fame we
Hooker.

His device is aguall; Babylon, to dcftroy it.
>-.li. II.

Ad

De'vilishly. adnj. [horn devil) fh.] In amanner fuiting the devil diabolically.

De'vilkin, «, / [from dc-vil.]
devil.

A little

CLriffa.
adj. [dfviiis, Latin.]
_

Dt'vious.
Out of tlic common tr.ick.
I

.

by iholce we ftray
Creufr kept behind
Thiough cv'ry dark sod sv'ry dcvimi way. D>jd.
:

In fWs minute Jcvims fufcjcft, I have bcm neceflitatrd to cxpUin mylelf in mute words than may
Ht/iier.
lerni nceilful.

Wandering ; roving ; rambling.

2.

Devi'souk. »./ He that gives by will.
See Devise.
Poflible to be avoided ;

Devita'tiok.

the wildly Jev'ioui morning walk, thcmj.

Erring ; going aftray from reftitude.
One dcv'mii ftvp, at lirft letting out, fre(iuently

3.

leads a peribn into a wUdernel's of doubt and error.

Wlicther they, at ihcir

And nought but prclTed giafs where /he had lyen,
Fairy £>.
fcrrow'd all fo much as carft 1 joy'd.
2. Without any thing, whether good or
evil ; free from ; in want of.

Blaikmore.

To plan; to fcheme.

We Tyrians are not fo devqid of fenfe.

to con;

¥mry S^eert.
But fith now fafe ye feized have the (horc,

And well arrived arc, high God be blcft.

I fly

Since we are (o far entered, let us, I pray you,
a little drvijt of thoie evils by which that country
is held in this wretched cafe, that it cannot, .is
Sftnftr's Irtland.
you fay, be recured.
Divje but how you'll ufe him when he comcfl,
to
bring
him
thither.
Shak.
let
two
and
us
divife

He with his whole pofterity muft die.

Of life-defcrted fand.

Which Niobe's devoted iflue felt.
When, hifling through the (kies, the feathcr'd
D'yJex»
deaths were dealt.
Let her, like me, of ev'ry joy forlorn,
Devote the hour when fuch a wretch was born ;
Ritce,
Like me to deferts and to darknefs run.

How on a fudden loft,
Defac'd, deflower'd, and now to deatli devote !
Milton,

Upon the duke of Ormond the king had wlioUy
devolved tile care and difpolition of all affairs in
Ireland.

Temf.'e.

.

Devo'tedness. n.f. [from devofe.'\ The
ftate

BecauCe they found too much confuflon in fuch
a multitude of ftjtefmcn, they devolved their whole
authority into the liands of the council of fixty.

m

The whole

This word it properly attributed, in our common law, to him that bequeaths his goods by his

vantage, relates to her but as flic was, or may again

teftament in writing; and the rcafon is
bccaufc tbofc that now apj'c-tain only to the dcvifour, by this adt are dilVributed into many pans.
Co'Vtli.

onlyr and the third part of tbcfe prolits
demindabie.

is

there

home and abroad, wab

To Devo'lve. "V. It,
1. To roll down.

To fall in fucceflion into new hands.

2.

Locke,

God hath omitted nuthing needful to his pur-

Suppufing people, by wanting fpiritual blcflings,
did lofe all their right to temporal, yet that forfeiture mull devolve only to the fupreme Lord.

pofe, nor left his intention tu be accompliflicd by

Decjy of Piety.

Contrivance. See Devjcb.

ihikir.

our dniftl.

[from the noun.] To
A law term.
grant by will.
Devisee'. B. yl He to whom fomeihing
is bequeathed by will.
Dtvi'sER. It. /. [from (le-vi/i:.'\ A contriver; an inventer.
a.

Being divided from truth in them/elvea, they
«c yet farther removed by advenient deception
for true it is, if I fay they are daily mocked into

Brown.

errour by dftifert.

The aatiiors of ufcful inventions, the dev'iftri of
a<

were the phil .fophers of an-

cient time:, were honoured at the fathers and proCrew.
phets of tbcir country.

be,

Swift.
devolved upon that family.
The matter which devolves from the hills down
upon th^.- lower grounds, does not confidcrably
tftadviard.
raile and augment them.

la.l will or

The alienation is made by dei'ift In a la;t will

power, at

Devolu'tion. n. /. [Je-velutio, Latin.]
The aifl of rolling down.

obftacle to your devotejnejs to terapliicic

Boyle,

The owning of our obliga;ion unto virtue, may
be ftyled natural religion ; that is tof.iy,a demotedfii/i uuto Cud, fo as to a^ according to bis will.
Cran/,

Devotee', n.f.

[dcjot,

French.]

DEVO'TION. n.f.

[de^otktt,

1

The ftate of being confecrated or dedicated.

2.

Piety; adls of religion ; dcvoutnefs.

Mean time her warlike brother on the ftas
His waving llrcamers to the winds difphys.
And vows for his return with vain devotion pays.

IVaodivard.

Removal fucccflive from hand to hand.
The junldiftion exercifed in thofc courts is derived from the crown of England, and the lift
ihti.
devolution is to the king by way of appeal,

Devora'tion. It./, [from devoro, Lat.]
Dui.
The adl of devouring.
To

DEVO'TE. 11. a, [devtvce, devotus,

Latin.]

FrenchJ

dfvotio, Latin.]

the hills and high grounds, will fall under ourcon-

2,

One

erroneoully or fuperllitioufly religious ;
a bigot.

the devoluCKn of earth down upon the valleys from
fideration.

an

love.

1

The railing of new mountains, deterrations, or

of being devoted or dedicated ;

confccration ; addiflednefs.
Whatever may fali from my pen to her difad-

jiddifin.

will.

For devoted.

Devo'te. adj.
Thcmfiit.

To move from one hand to another.

2.

Afi/rst.

Gnddcfs of maids, and confcious of our heartSi
So keep me from the vengeance of thy darts.

Latin.]

Now wanders wild through folitary tracts

Dkvi'se. v./. \_ilrji/e,j. will, old French.]
bequeathing by
The ad of giving
I

wholefome laws,

To deftruftion facred, and deveif.

Pufe.

[de-vol'vo,

Mihonm

Dillinguifli not.

Thro' fp!cndid kingdoms he devolve) his maze,

Let us dmijeofink and everlafting reft. Fciry S^.

to execrate ; to doom tode-

\ led rhe wrath
Impendent, raging into fudden flame,

KnoUei.

To DEVO'LVE. 1/. a.
1. To roll down.

;

ftruflion.

Thofe wicked tents devoted

She flatters her good laJy twice a-day.

Htifclf tocherifliand her gucft to chear.

To curfe

J.

Speilaar.
their dcvArt to one particular fair.
Ankward and fupple, each devoir to pay.

Hrr merry fit (he freihlv 'gin to rear,

to give up to ill.
;
Romans having once debauched their fenles

with the pleafures of other nations, they devoted
thcmfelves unto all wickcdnrfs.
Grewt

Acl of civility or obfequioufnefs.
Gentlemen, who do notdeli^n to many, yet pay

2.

And did o/'joy and joltty rf»w'r,

To Devi'se. v.

I'iie

A fenfe now not ufed.

Service.

vice.

anciently with of.

3.

Dryden.

To addift

4.

To rcltore again the kingdom cf the ^famalukcs, he offered him their utmoft deinir and fcr-

Jcr. xiii. 1 1.

form fchemes

Alike devote to forrow's dire extreme
The day lefleAion and the midnightdream. Ptft,

Dryden.

1.

To Devi'se. v. n. To confider ;

Decty cf P'ttUft

As when, by magick, ghofts are made appear.
Nor fo remote from Phabus' influence.
Devo'ir. n.f. [dfvcir, French.]

to refign to ill.

Ah why, Penelope, this eaufelefs fear.
To render fleep's loft bleflings infinceref

afcends higher, till at length it fhall become utterly devcid of gravity, when the Icaft ftrength will
be able to beftow upon it a fwift motion.

Wilkim'i Math. Magick.
His warlike mind, his foul devoidol fear,
His high dcfigning thoughts were figur'd there,

;

Aliens were devoted to their rapine and defpight^

it

you, and dn'\fe a

device againft you.

.

To condemn

3.

The motion of this chariot will ftill be eafier as

coming into the

Ye fons of art, one curious piece dev'tft.
From whofe conltruflu^e motion fliall arifc.

to lay plans ; to

hairy g>.

and dimenfion, and that they have nothing to do
with proper locality, is generally opiaioned.

He could by his (kill draw after him the weight,
•f five thoufand bnihcls of grain, and dnijc thole
fare engines which fliot fmall ftones at hand, but
Feacham.
great ones afar off.

trive ;

Let 's be no ftoicks, nor no ftocks, I pray
Or fo devote to Arillotle's checks,
'Ai Ovid be an outcaft quite abjur'd. Stakefptart,
If perfons of this malce Ihould even/cvsrethemfelves to fciencc, they Ihould be well alTured of a
foliil and Itrong cnnftitution of body.
H^ailu

That the foul and angels are devoid of quantity

out by

Pofe^

as to a feft, or ftudy.
While we do admire
;

This virtue, and this moral difcipline.

He flung it from him, and devoid of dread
Upon him lightly leaped without heed,

To addift

Glanville.

firft

evil aj;ain|l

On herds devoted to tlie god of day.
2.

1

Sfaijer'i Stale of Inland.

Behoid I frame

Di<S.

When 1 awoke and found her place dndA,

land, or afterwards, by trading with other nations
which had letters, learned them of tbcm, oc 6eviftd them among therafelves, is very doubtful.

2.

iw.

xxvii. zi.
or redeemed.
What black magician conjures up this fiend.
Sbakeffeare.
To flop devoted charitable deeds ?
Th{y, impious, dar'd to prey

/ [dn/itatio, Latin.]

Empty; vacant; void.

1.

"]

ftrike

No devoted thing that a man fliall Jevcit unto
the Lord, of all that he hath, both of man and
beaft, and of the field of his polfeflion, fliall be fold

Devo'id. adj. [yuide, French.]

of dcvifare, to iooli about. Skinner.
1. To contrive; to form by art; to invent ; to excogitate ; to
thought.

priate by vow.

avoidable.

The aft of cfcaping or avoiding.

Clor'ijfi.

Some lower mufe, perhaps, who lightly trcaos
The dtv'uui piilhs where wantuii fancy leads. Rnve.
4. It is uled likewife of perfons. Roving ;
idly vagrant ; erring from the way.
To DEVISE. V. a. {dfvi/er, French, as

1.

To dedloate; to confecrate ; to appr*^

1.

DE'VITABLE. adj. [devitabilii, Latin.]

Every mule.

And every blooming pleifurc, wait without
I'll blefs

D EV

D EV

DEV

Drydcit,

3.

An afl of external worlhip.
Religious minds are inflamed with the love of
Hooker,
publick devotion.
For as 1 palTed by and beheld your devotiot:, \
found an altar with this infcription. To the unknown God.
Afls, xvii, 13.
in vain doth man the name of jnft cxpeQ,
Dcnhjm^
If his devitims he to God neglcit.

4.

Prayer J

An agcAholy maui
That day and

Your dcvoihn has its opportunity : wc muft pray
Sfrat:.
always, but chiefly at certain times.

mind under a ftrong
e. The
fenfe of dependance upon God ; deflate of the

tior: of the words,

Drydcn.
Notwithftanding that Socrates lived in the time
of this demurirg peliilence at Athens, he never

queucea, coherences, figures, or tropobgies.

From the full choir when loud hofannas lilc,

And fwrll the pomp of dreadful facrifice
Amid that fccne, if fome relenting eye

;

Glance on the (lore where our cold reliques lie,

Dmoikns k\f (hall fteal a thought from heav'n.
One human tear (hall drrp, and be forgiv'n. Pofe.
Dmcihn may be con(iJeted either as an excrcife
of publiclc or private prayers at fet times and octafions, or as a temper of the mind, a (late and
difpofition of the heart, which is rightly affeflcd
iaiu cti Cbrift's Ptrf,l}kn.
with fuch excrcifcs.

Add'ijait*

caught the iealt infoftion.

To fwallow up

3.

;

to annihilate.
SLakcffiare.

Such a ple,ifure as grows frefher upon enjoyment ; and though continually fed upon, yet is
South,
never devcurtd.
Death Oalks behind thee, and each flying hour
Docs fomf locfe remnant of thy life devour. Dryd.

To enjoy with avidity.

4..

Longing they look, and gaping at the (i^'ht.
Devour her o'er and o'er with vail delight. Dryd.

fumer; he that devours; he that preys
upon.

Rome is but a wildernefs of tygers
Tygers muft prey, and Rome aA'ords no prey
But me and mine: how happy art thou, then,

From thcl'e devturert to be banilhed!

Hbakcfpaire,

Slaleff.

7. Strong affeclion ; ardent love ; fuch as
makes the lover the fole property of the

Demy cf P'uty.
Mortimer,

DEVO'UT. adj. [de-vo/Hs, Latin.]
Pious; religious; devoted to holy du-

1.

ties.

We

muft be con(Vant and devout in the worlhlp
of our God, and ready in all a£ts of benevolence
Rogen.
to our neighbour.

luck

To my procieding, if, with pure heart's love,
Immaculate dcvotizn, holy thoughts,
I tender not thy beauteous princely daughter.

Stekeffeare.
had a particular reverence for the perfon cf

the king, and the more extraordinary drvoiim fo'
that of the priiKe, as he had had the honour to be
Clarendon*
trufted with his education.

8. Earneflnefs ; ardour ; eagernefs.

He (ccks their hare with greater dei-cticn than
him j and leaves nothing undone that may fully difcover him their oppofiie.
it

Sbairfpearr.

9. Difpofal ; power ; ftate of dependance
on any one.
Arundel caflle would keep that rich corner of
the country at his m3}iHy*s dei-6thn*

Cfarend<.n.

2. Filled with pious thoughts.
For this, with Iom\ devout , he thank'd the god \
And, of fuccefa fecure, return'd to his abode.

Dry den.
3.

Expreflive of devotion or piety.

Anon dry ground appears, and from his ark
The ancient lire defcends with all his train
Then with uplifted hands, and eyes devout.
Grateful to heav'n.

Mi/ton.

Devo'v n't, adv. [ftomdevcut.] Pioufly;

rtrtjf. [{vom devotion .1 Pertaining to devotion ; annexed to wor-

fViip ;

religious.

Nor are the foberefV (^f them fo apt for that di.

and jutiAure of hearts, which
1 deli.e to bear in holy oificcs, to be performed
with me.
King CharUi.
The favourabl'? opinion and good word of men
comes oftcnt'mes at a very rafy rate, by a few demure looks, with ioTue devAknai pollures and grimaces.
Sour/'.

vBt'icntti c-'inphince

Her grace role, and with modcli paces

Came to the alur, where (he knccl'd

;

and faint-

like

Ca(t her fair eyes to heav'n, and pray'd devoutly.

One of the wife men having a while attencivly
and devoutly viewed and contemplated this pillar
and crofs, fell down upon his face.
B^on.
Her twilights were more clear than our mid-day,
She dreamt devout/ier than moft ul'e to pray. Donne.

deed ;

A hand as fruitful as the land that feeds us
Shakifpearet
His de'W falls cv'ry where.
She looks as clear
As morning rofes newly wafh'd with deiv. Shai»

D^ivt and rain are but the returns of moid: vaBacotu
pours condenfed.
Now fliding (Ireams the thirfty plants renew,
And feed their fibres with reviving rfrw.
Poft^

To Dew. v. a, [from the noun.] To wet
as with dew
to moiften ; to beJew.
;

A trickling ftream of balm moft fovereign.
And dainty dear,

which on the ground ftill fell,

And overflowed all the fertile plain.
As it had deiv.d been with timely rain. Pa. ^ieu.
With him pour we in our country's purge
Each drop of us.

—Or

fo much as it needs

To deiv the fovereign flower, and drown the weeds.
ShakrJ'peare*

—

Shul:ejp€are9

He ceas'd ; dJfcerning Adam with fuch joy
Surcharg'd, as had, like grief, been dem'd in tears.
Without the vent of words, which the^e he
biiiton,

brcath'd.

Halcmon above the red appears
In fable garments, dew'd with gu(hing tears.
VrydeMt

Think, O my foul, devoutly think,

How, with a(frtghted eyes.
Thou faw'd the wide extended deep

De'wberry. n.f. [horn devj zxiA ierry."]

In all its horrors rife
jidd!fcn.
To fecond caufea we fecm to trult, without cx-

Detvicrrirs, as they ilar.d here among the moie
mull be undcrilood to mean raf-

I

prtifing, fo devoutly as

we ought to do, our de-

delicate fruits,

berrles, which are alfo uf the bramble kind.

HanmiTt
Feed him with apricocks and de^iterrin,
With purple grapes, green figs, and mulb rries.
Sba'efje.ire*

Dewb ESP re'nt. /«?•/. [i/t^zvand be/frent,'\

To eat up ravenoufly, as a v/ild beall or
animal of prey.

a ludicrous word.
'Twas the prettieft prologue, as he wrote it

Sprinkled with dew.

We will fay fome evil bead hath drvmred him.

Well, the deuce take me if I ha'n't forgot it.

Had ta'en their fuppi'r on the favoury herb

We 've willing damet enough

there cannot be

Deutero'gamv.
ya.fA.1^.]

As will to grcatnefs dcdi«a:c themfclves.
Finding it fo inclia'd.
Sbakrffeare.
So looki the pent up lion o'er the wretch
That tiembles under his J't-turinf paws. Staie/f.

i flame burnetlu

Vol. I.

'J'"!)

»' J.

and

[JitTi;®.

tl.

/.

Z>/V?.

[JftTIf©- M/i®-.]

The fecond book of the law ; the fifth
book of Mofes.
c-«o«-iw.]

A (ire dtiMurtib before them, and behind them

a. /.

A fecond marriage.

DeUTERONo'm V.

To deftroy or confume with rapidity Deutero'scopy.
and violence.

This evening late, by then the chewing floclu

Congreve.

Ctntjii,
;

That vulture in you, to J,-uMr fo many

2.

Never yet one hour in bed
Did I enjoy the golden detv of fleep.
But with his tim'rous dreams was ftill awak'd.

In Gallick blood again
Kedewi bis reeking (word, and rtrows the ground
With headlefs ranks.
PtilUft.

pendance on the (irrt.
Aiterhury.
Devo'tioxalist. «./. [(torn dfVtttion.]
A man zealous without knowledge ; fu- Deuse. n./. [more properly than deuce,
Junius, from Dujius, the name of a cerperllitioufly devout.
tain fpecies of evil fpirits.] The devil
To DEVOUR, -v. a. y^joro, Latin.]
J.

vegetables, which it cherilhes, cools, and refretfaes.
ff'oodwiirdt

Give me thy hand.
That I may Jew it with my mournful tears.

with ardent devotion ; religioufly.

Sbakejpettre

Devo'tion AL.

be eafily vifible therein :-and wiieii at length the
heat there is fomcwhat further fpent, which i»^
ufually about the middle of the night, it falls dOA'a
again in a iftW, alighting upon herbs and other

Sbaieffeere^

perfon loved.
Tit oppofite all planets of good

fent up in greater quantity all tlic foregoing day,
than now in the evening ; but the fan then being
above the horizon, taking it at the furface of the
earth, and rapidly mounting it up int.) the atmofpherc, it was not difcerniblc : the fun being now
gone oft', the vapour ftagnates at and near the
earth, and faturates the air till it is fo thick at to

That ctiurchman bears a bounteous mind, in-

being dcuaurers of their fpawn.

To gtatulate the gentle prinies there.

ting, even in our hotted months, are nothing but
a vapour confiding of water; which vapjur \vij

dcvoureri fupply their place: fraud fucceeds to vio-

Carp and tench do beft together, ail other fiil»

Whither away fo faft ?
.—Upon the like dmcikn as yourfelves,

The moifture upon the grountl.

Since thofc leviathans are withdrawn, the lefftr
lence.

mony.

they can render

A con-

Devo'ureh. n.y; \Jrota devour.']

6, An a£l of reverence, refpeiS, or cere-

Browns Vulgar Errcuru

DEW. «./. [beap, Saxon; daaiv.Datch.]
Fogs which we frequently obferve after fun-fet.

He fscm'd in fwiftnefs to devaur the way.

voutnefs ; piety.
Grateful to acknowledge whence his good
Defcends, thither with heart, and voice, and eyes
Dltefted in dfvotKri, to adore
And worOiip God fupremc, who made him chief
Millsn.
Ot" all his works.

they are fain toomic their confe-

Our plains, our temples, and our town dev^ur'd;
It was the walie of war.

nigJi' faid his divoticti.

No other worldly burinefs did apply. Fairy ^itn.

He

Not sttaining the deuterofcopy, or fccond inten.

How dire a tempeft from Myeen* pdurM,

Prayer ; expreflion of devotion.

'£.

DEW

D E U

D EV

«. /.

The fecond intention

the

;

meaning beyond the literal fenfc
in ufe.

and

[ JiuTtf®-

:

not

Of knot-grafs dnubefprcnt, and were in fold,
1 fit me down to watch upon a bank
With ivy canopied, and interwove
With flaunting honey-fuckie.

Millm,

and turnDew-burni tiG. adj. [ from
ing.]
The meaning of this coiipt und
<j!f-ix'

doubtful.
Perhaps it ailudes to the
fparkling of dew.
He, now to prove his late renewed might,

is

Hi|;h{>randi(liing his bright dtvh-turn'mg biade,

J U

Upon

D EX
Upon Ms

D I A
T>z'^r^t.fiv\.adj.\iicxttr, Latin.]

crefted fcajp fo fore did finite,

That to the fcuU a yawning wound it made.

1.

of dew which fparkles ac fuu-riie.
I mutt go ieck fume dewtirsj>s here,
And hang a pearl in every cowflip'a ear. Sbalrjf.

For both their dexi'nui hands the lance could
wield.

2,

An hoft

pcbe.

Expert in,management J
of expedients.

fubtl'e; full

nagers enough of the wares and pmdufU of tli.it
corner with which tliey content themfelves. isif i-.

De'xterously. ad'v. [from dextereu}.]

Tukfll.

Expertly; fkilfully; artfully.
The magiltrate fometimes cannot do his own

De'wlap. n. /. [from lapping or liciiag

office dcxier'jujly, but by afting the minifter. Siulb.

But then my ftudy was to cog the dice,

the dinu.]

The flelh that hangs down from the

1.

throat of oxen.

And dixi'nujly to throw the lucky fice.

De'xtral.

Large rowles of fat about his ihouldcrs (lung.

And when flie drinks againft her lips I bob.
And OD the wither'd dcvilsf pour the ale. Sbai.
De'wlapt, adj. [from dirwlap.'\ Fur-

The

ftate of being ow the right, not the left,
fidB.
If there were a determinate prepotency In the
and fuch as arifeth from a conftant root in
nature, we might expert the fame in other animals, whofe parts are alfo differenced by dextrelity.
right,

Who would believe tliat there were mountaiiwers
Dnvli^^t like bulls, whofc throats bad hanging at

'em

BnivrCs Vulgar Errcun.

Diabe'tes, n.f.

[JiaSat1>j«.]

A morbid

De'w-worm. »./ [from Jeiv and <worm.]
A worm found in dew.

copioufnefs of urine; a fatal coUiquation by the urinary paflages.
An increafe of that fecretion may accompany the

•For the trout, the dcm ivurm, which fome call
the lob worm, and the brandling, are the chief.

general colliquations j as in fluxes, hedlic fweats
and coughs, diabetes, and other confumptions.

Derbam's PbyJicO'Theohgy.

De'wy. adj. [from devj.^
'i.'

Refembling dew ; partaking of dew.

Diabo'lical.T fl(^'. [from diabolus. LaDiabo'lick. 3 tin.] Devililh; partak-

From the earth a dewy mift
Went up, and water'd all the ground, and each

ing of the qualities of the devil ; impious ; atrocious ;
ing to the devil.

Miiten.

Plant of the field.

Where two adverfe winds,

nefarious ;

pertain-

i. Moift with dew ; rofcid.
The joyous day 'gan early to appear.
And fair Aurora from her dnvy bed
Of aged Tithone 'gan herfcif to rear,

With rofy Aecks, for fliame as blulhing red. Spcnf.
The bee with honied thigh.
That at her flow'ry work doth fing.

And the waters murmuring.
With fucb confort as they keep,

Air.brofia,

Milton.

Drydcn.

DUCO'DIUM. n.f. [isot*iU,.] The fyrup of poppies.

DiAco'usrtcs.

n. /.

£Ji«xBfu<».]

The

;

1

;

finlfter

about the head of eailern monarchs.
The facred diadem in pieces rent.
And purple robe gored with many a wound.

Shaitfyeart.

DEXTE'RITY. n.f. [dexteritas, Lat.]
1. Reatlinefa of Ihnbs ; adivity; rcadinefs

Spenjer.

A

to attain iklll ; (kill ; cxpertnefs.
2.

%

providence to pttrent and remove tbein afar off.
Bacin.
They attempted to be knaves, but wanted- art
Start.
and dtxttrily.
V"<'c1anfs may, by their diruiv.j,
The '
'

make

t

«Ik.cL-!.

«:

..j

nitinr.al religion, and difpyi'-

ioiung tbcirpaftuis'.

Hivift.

lift

the coblers' templea ties.

To keep the hair out of their eyes

Readinefs of contrivance ; quickncfs of
expedient; fldll of management.
His wifdom, by often evading from perils, wis
turned lalhcr into a dixiirUj to deliver himfcll
from dangers, when they prcfl'ed him, than into a

Pope.

which any motion is performed ; the
time in which a pendulum performs iti
vibration.

A

gry is one tenth of a line, a line one tenth of
an inch, an inch one tenth of a philufophical foot,
a philofophical

foot

whofe diadnms,

in the latitude

one third of a pendulum
of forty-live degrees, are each equal to one fecond of time, or »
fixticth of a minute.
Lccte-

Di«'resis. n.f. [Jiai'^irTtj.] The feparation or disjundion of I'yllables; as aer.

guirtied from others.
1 Ihall lay down fome indifputable mnks of thi(
vice, that whenever we fee the tokens, we may
conclude the plague is in the houfe:
let us hear
your diagmjikii.
Collier en Pride.

—

One of our phyficians proved difappointed of hie
prognoftickt, or rather diagvefticks.

Har'uey on Confumptionp*

DIA'GONAL. adj. [Jiay^;,!©-.] Reaching
from one angle to another, fo as to divide a parallelogram into equal parts.

The monftrofity of the badger is ill-contrived,
and with fome difadvantage; the diortnefs being
fixed unto the legs of one fide, that might bave
been more properly placed upon the diagonal
Brown's Vulgar Errours.
movers.
All forts of ftone compofed of granules, will cut
and rive in any direction, as well in a perpendicu*
lar, or in a diugonaly as horizontally and parallel to
the fide of the llrata.
fPoodward»

viding a fquare into equal parts.

DeXTER. adj. [Latin.] the right not
do£lr;ne of founds.
A terra ufed in heraldry.
the left.
Dl'ADEM. n. f. [diadema, Latin.]
My mother's blood
A tiara an enfign of royalty bound
Runs on the dixier cheek, and thii
Bounds in my fire's.

And opes the temple of eternity.

Di'Adrom. n./. [oiao^ofc.'w.] The time in

line drawn from angle to angle, and di-

Befides the fuccour which cold Ancien yields.

The rocks of Hernicus and dnvy fields.

flirine,'

Her pticftlefs mufe forbids the good to die,

Aftive within, beyond the fenfe of brute. Milieu.
Does not the ambitious, the envious, and the
revengeful man know very well, that the thirft of
blood, and afl^c^ation of dominion by violence and
opprellion, is a moft dia^olifal outrage upon the
laws of God and Nature
L'EjIrtnge.
The practice of lying is a d'taboHcal exercifc, and
tjjey that ufc it are the devil's children.
Ray.
Damned fpirits muft needs be all envy, dcfpair,
and rage ; and have fo much of a diabolical nature
in them, as to wilh all men to Ihare their mifcry.
A^terbury.

Miltoti.

_

kefetm,

KD.adj. [from diadem.] Adorned
with a diadem ; crowned.
v
Ni)t fo, when di.idcm'd with rays divine,
.VI

Doubt might beget pf dijboHik pow'r,

.'

His dewy locks diftill'd

Di'a DE

Dia'conal. «./. [from the adjeftive.] A

This, in other beads obferv'd.

Sttblim'd from dnvy vapours in mid (ky,
Isngage with horrid Ibock, the rulflcd brine
PbUlips,
Roars llormy.

Entice the dewy fcather'd flecp.

Fled like a mill before this radiant day.

Dl AGNo'sTICK. n.f. [i'layiiwcTKii.] A
fymptom by which a difeafe is diftinDextra'lity. n.f. [irom dextral'\ The

nflhed with dewlaps.

Shahffcare.
Wallets of flefli >
The dewiapt bull now chafes along the plain,
While burning love ferments in ev'ry vein. Cay.

Latin.]

As for any tunicles or Ikins, which ftiould hinder
the liver from enabling the dexlial parts, wc muft
not conceive it diffufeth its virtue by mere irradiation, but by its veins and proper vcHels.
BrtnurTs P'ulgar Ernun,

2, It is i<fed in Shakefpeare for a lip flaccid

In very likenefs of a roafted crab ;

[dexter,

Dryden.

right ; not the left.

And from his neck the doub!e dnvhp bung. Addwith age, in contempt.
And loaietimes lurk 1 in a goflip's bowl,

adj.

And ftopt our prince in his • iumphant v.ay,

Touch'd with die flame that breaks from virtue**

'I'hcy confine themfelves, and are dexterous ma-

u

Innumerable
the ftars of night,
Or ftars of morning, tlewJrafi, which the fun
Miltcn,
Impcarls on ev'ry leaf, and ev'ry flower.
Reft, fwect as dctvilrsfi on the flow'ry lawns,
y/bcn the iky opens, and ti>e morning dawns

at

:

A drop

De'wdrop. n.f. [Je-^u ixid r/mf.]

Fa Aian,' that once made diademt her prey,

any manual employment;
aftive ; ready as, a dexterous workman.
Expert

That princes wear, derives from them.

alfo of the divifion of that line into a certain

nam*

ber of equal parts.

Luke.

Dia'gonally. adv. [from diagonal.] In
a diagonal diredion.

Tbe right and left are not defined by philofo.
phers according to common acceptation, that is,
refpe£lively from one man unto another, orsiny conllant fite in each, as though that fhould be the
right in one, which, upon confront or facing, ftands
athwart or diagonally unto the other; but were diftinguilhed according unto their activity, and predominant locomotion, on the either fide.
•

Brown's Vulgar Errours,

Di'agram. »./. [Jiayjotju/**.] A delineation of geometrical figures ; a

mathe«

matical Icheme.

Many a fair precept in poetry Is like a feeming
demonliration in the niatbematicks; very fpeciouj
in the diagram, but failing in the mechanick opeDryden.

Why do not thcli! perfons make a diagram of
Stvi/t.

The mark of royalty worn on the head;
the crown.

A

the diagonal is an inch long, he may have the idea

ration.

From whence 'tit plain t)ie diadm.
2.

When a man has in his mind the idea of two
lines, viz. the fide and diagonal of i fquare, whereof

crown.
Golden in Ihew, is bat a wreath of thorns;
Brings dangers, tcoubles,carcs, and fleeplefs nights,
To hi m who w^ars the regal dudtm.
Milion.
Why ihould be ravjfli then that diadem
From your grey temples, which tbc hand of time
Muii fbottly plaqt on hit i
Denbufi.

thefc cogitative lines and angles, and demonftratfr
their

properties of perception

and appetite,

as

plainly as we know the other properties of triangles

and circles ?

Beniley.

Dl agry'ui ATES. n,/. [from diagrydirtnt,
Lat.] Strong purgatives made with diagrydium.
All cholerick humours ought to be evacuated
by diagrydiaies, mixed with tartar, or fome acid,
Floyrr.
o; thubaib powder.

DI'AL.

D I A
Dl'AL.

«.

/

[dhle,

D I A
A plate

SkittHer.]

of a circle, or other curvilinear figure,

marked with lines, where a hand or

To fpenJ that Ihortnefa bafeiy were too long.

of the earth, which makes, in a grofs account,
about one hundred and twenty thoul'and miles.

Though life did ride upon a JiaPi point.
of an hour.

Raleigh.

we per?bive it not

or animali ; and tile fly fliadow lleaU away upoi.
tht Jial, and the quickeft eye can dilcovernu more[<//(!/ and //a/f.] That
on which hoars or lines are marked.

Adi'ijm'i SftRaiar,

as the
;
Attic, Doric, Ionic, .^lic diale<ils.

manner of expreflion.
When themfclves do praiSife that whereof they

^. Style;

write, they change tlicir (/u/rff ; and thofc wdr^s
they fhun, as if there were in them feme fccret
fting-

oppofed

other things^ diaprofaoenefs and impiety of

neighbours as ourfelves. Gwernmcnt

of the Tongue.

Diame'trically. adv. {iioa\ diametri-

Diale'ctical.

is,

perfeflly clear and
pellucid as the pureft water ; and is eminentlv dif-

from all other fubftancet by its'vivid
fplendour, and the brightnefs of its reflexions. It
tinguiflied

extremely vari jus in llape and lize, being fouml

Di'alist. «./ [from dial.'] A conftrufler

ftrongeft fires, except the concentrated folar lays,

of dials.
Scii-ntitick dial'ffli, by the geometrick confidera-

tions of lines, have found out rules to mark out the
irre;u!ir motion of the fhadow in all latitudes, and

^5,„„

A

DI'ALOGUE. n.f. [J,^^oyO..] A confeWill yw hear thtdu/cgut mat the two learned
men have comilpal in praife of the owl and cuc!

Drydcni Spaayh Fr'ur.
Tn cafy diahguts is Fletcher's praifc
We mov'd the mind, but had not pow'rj to raife.

which renders

more durable and lalting, and
therefore much more valuable, than any other

Do-d.r,.

Doddialogui with thy ftiadow >

Dialy'su. «./.

[Jia\i/er,f.]

fVoodward.
The aiamwd is by mighty monarchs worn,
Fair as the liar that ulhers in the morn. Bluikm.
The lively diamond dtinks thy pureft rays,
ColledeJ light, compaift.
Ttomfin.
_

Shak. '/man.

The

it

ftone.

V. a. [from the noun.]
To difcourfe with another ; to confer.
figure

Di'apase. n.f.

in rhctorick by which fyllables or words
are divided.

cluding

DfA'METER. »./ [J,i and^/T^,,.] The

diapaftin.

all

[J,i auffur.]

Achordin-

The old word for
See Diapason.
tones.

And "twixt them both a quadrant was the bafe,

line which, paffing through the centre
J

1

[from the noun.]
todiverfifyj to flower.

a.

'V.

To variegate

;

For fear the ftoncs her tender foot ih 'uU wrongj

The ground he ftrew'd with flowers a. along,
And diapered like the difcolour^d me id. S/'nUr*
I

Flora ufeth to cloath our g;and-uami' Lartk
with a new livery, diapered with various flowers,
and chequered wuh delightful objeils.

Homers foeal Forejf.
2,

To draw flowers upon clothes.
reafoa

I fee how thine eye would emulate the diamond :
thou hall the right arched bent of the brow. Stak.
The diamond ii preferable and valily fuperior to
all others in luftic and beauty
5 as alfo in hardnefs,

Lal-

'Civious dialigun art innocen' with you.

-n '
Vfl Di ALOCVE.

1.

weaker parts. It bears a glafs-houfe fire for man)
days, and if taken carefully out, and fuffered t'
cool by degrees, is found as biight and beautifui
as before; but if tak;:nhaftily ou'.it will fometimrs

Sbakefpeare.
i>hak.Jf">f'-

_

Oh, the ImpOdencc' of this wicked fcx

To Di'aper.

If you diaper upon lolds, let your w-irk be
brokers, and taken, as it were, by the half; for

tinged with the colours of the other gems, bv the
mixture of fome metalline particles. Hill on t\^l,.
GiVf me the ring of mine you had at dinner
Or, for the diamond, the chain you promis'd.

rence ; a converfation between two or
more, cither real or feigned.

a towel.
him with a filvcr haf in

without hurt; and even that infinitely ficrceft 0:
all fiies does it no injury unlffs direfled
to if.

ctjkk, and even fplit into two or thiee pieces. The
places where we have diamondi arc the Eaft Indies
and the Brafils ; and though t.Sey are ufually founu
clear and colourlefs, yet thry are fomctimes 11 glitlj

fpeaker in a dialogue or conference ; a
writer of dialogues.

;

Full of rofe-water, and beftrew'd with flowers
;
Another bear the ewer, a tiiird a diaper. Slakeff,

which weighs two hundred and feventy-nine carats,
and is computed to be worth feven hundred and
fcventy-niue tlioufand two hundred and forty-four
pounds.
The diamond bears the force of tlir

knowledge of (ha-

;

A napkin

Irft one attend

when pure,

known is that in the pofTeirnn of the Great Mogul,

the art of conftrutling dials on
which the fliadow may (liew the hour.

_

2.

the gems,

in the greateft quantity very fmall, and the larger
ones extremely leldom met with. The Urged ever

Di'allino. B./. [from <//a/.] The fcia

kow ?

Not any damfcl, which her vaunteth moft
In (kilful knitting of foft Clken twine ;
Nor any weaver, w-hich his work doth boaft
In diaper, in damaik, or in lync,
Might in their diverlb cunning ever dare
With this fo curious net-work to compare. Spcnf.

he diamond, the moft valuable and hardeft of

'1

is

the art of reafoiiing.

[{xom dialogue.]

Clsmndoa.
the vapour,

(Iratum and that which lies underneath it. fVoodiu.

all

onfall planes.

palTage,

Di'amonb. n.f. [diamant. Ft. adamas,

Thofc <ia/.-fl;My fubtletie., that the fchoolmen
employ about phyfiological myfteries, moredeclarr
the wit of him that ulcj them, than incrcafr the
knowledge of fober lovers of truth.
Boylt.

Lo

its

horizontal interval, which is betwixt the faid dcnfe

Lat;in.]

DiA tOGiST. ». /

1.

whxh

adj. [from diaUa-ck.]
Logical ; argumental.

DIALE'CTICK. n.f. [i.«x,x1.*,.]

in

;

etymology.]
Linen cloth woven in flowers, and other
figures ; the fineft fpecies of figured liaea
after dama(k.

In a diametrical direftion.

He peifuaded the king to confcnt to what was
Thus intercepted

CrafioaiUt

From harmony to harmony
Through ail the compafs of the notes It ran,
The (ii.ipajon clofjng full in man.
Drydctt.
DI'APER. tt.f. [^<<2/>-^, Fr. of uncertaia

dlamttriaitly a^ainft his cohfcience and his honour,

perfon upon vhom it was conferred to the returns
of gratitude, why, in the univcrfal diaUa of the
world, are kindnelfM ilill called obligations } Siiitt.

_

This univerfal frame began

Obl'erving the direftion of a diameter.

The fin ot calumny is let in a moft diamarical
oppofition to the evangelical precept of loving our

cal.]

all.

From harmony, from heavenly harmony,

cannot penetrate the ftiatum diamctricajly,
gliues along the lower furfaceof it, permeating the

terick fcience ; the

Many a fweet rife, many as fweet a fall,

A full-mouth dinpqfm iwallows

Defcribiug a diameter,

Such as moves men. Shakrfp. Mtsjurtfcr Mcafurt.

dow

In perfcft diapajon, whilft they ftood
In firft obedience, and thtir ftate of good. Milton,

HamnorJ.

arJ, in truth, bis fccurity.

giclc ;

Ba:oiit

Diame'trical. adj. [from diameter. ]
2.

is the return of the fame found.

Harfli din
Broke the fair mufick that all creatures made
To their great Lord, whofe love their motion fway'd

is, beyond all

to

I« her youth
There is a prone and fpcctlilffs dhliS,
If the conferring of a kindnefs did not bind the

tr-

Chrillian piety

anions.

Hani,.

Itdifcovereththe true coincidence of founds into
diafafons, which

ter ; in direft oppofition,

llmta.

Language; fpcech.

3.

the lirft.

According to the dired^ion of a diame-

1 .

I. The fubdivifion of a language

:

an oftave ; becaufe there are bur fcvcn tones or
notes, and then the eighth is the fame again ^ith

Dia'metrally. adv. [horn diametral.]

mttrally

Ji.f.

</r

fcribing the diameter ; relating to the

of thetn po/Tefled of a magnetical needle, made a
kind o( dial-jilale, infcribing it with the four and
twenty letters, in the fame manner as the hours of
the day are marked upon the ordinary d'lal-fiatt,

Sfcnfer.

[Jia Titairm.
«;a(ri
]
Diafajcn denotes a chord which includes all
tones
it is the fame with that we call an eighth,

diameter.

StraJi tells us thit the two friends, being each

DI'ALECT. n.f. [J.a>.«'i®..]

Diapa'so'n.

Dia'metral. adj. [from diameter.] De-

GlanvilU.

PiAi.-PLATE. n.f.

it

Now being let to run at liberty,

The bay of Naples is the moft delightful one
that 1 ever faw : it lies in almolt a round figure ot
about thirty miles in ihc diameter. Addifin on Italy.

Shakiffeere's Henry IV.

we have no fenfe of the accretive motion of plants
tlian that it U gen.-.

The Iweet numbers and melodious meafures.
With which I wont the winged words to tie.
*^iia 11J.1R.C
And
make a tuneful
luiiciui diafafi
aiapajf of
01 plcalures,

The fpace between the earth and the moon, according to Ptolemy, is feventeen times the </u»irttT

O, gentlemen, tne time of life is ihortt

If the motion be »ery (low,

Nine was the circle fet in heaven's place,
A II which compared made a good ciaj>afe. Spcnfer,

divides it into equal parts.

ihadow (hews the hour.

Still ending at th' arrival

D I A

Pioportion'd equally by fevcn and nine

j

tells

you, that your fold muft c ver fome*
Peacbam on Dra-wing,

what unfeen.

Diaphanb'ity. n.f. [from .Jiayaiiia.J
Tranfparency ; pellucidneis j power of
tranfmitti;ig light.
ficcauie the outvvjrd c^at of the eye ought to
be pellucid, to tranlmit tlie liglit, winch, if the
eyes mould always ftand open, would be apt to
glow dry and lhii;ik, and loic their </w, icnti/^
j

therefoic are the c.elids fi cnt.-iveJ as .)Ken to

wink, that lb they m ly, as it wtn-, glaze and \xinilh them oveswith the mfifturc the cjnta n R.n,

Diapha'nick.

adj. [S.a. and pa.»©Tranlp.ifCiit ; pellucid; having the pow-

er to tranfmit light.
Air is in elenient luperior, and lighter than water, through whofe va(t, open, fubtik, diapiiani.i,
or tranlparont budy, the light, afterwards cieated
ealjly naiifpired.

Raleigh'.

DIA'PHANOUS. adj. [J.i and ?>a.»^.]
Trantparent ; clear ; tranllucent ; pellucid ; capable to tranlmit light.
Ariiiotlecilleth light aqualiiy inheicni or cleaving to a diaphanous body.
Raleigh.

When he had taken off the iol'eG, he foun4
in the leaf very little

aOly like

to I'lole

and diaphanous eggs, cxn the

which yet rcmanel

tubes of Uic fly's w&mb.

3

U»

-Pgy.

PlAPHO-

D I B

with which the gardeners make holes for

DfATHOtLB'TlCK. adj. [^a^o^DTix®-.] Supromoting

dorifick ;

a.

diaphorelis

or

planting.
Through cunning, with diUlt, rake, mattock,

perfpiration ; caufing fwcac.

A auphoretrck rr.edicine, or a fudorifick, is fomcIf^aiii.
thing that will provoke (Vnating.
Viaffhorefickii or promoters ot' perfpiration, help
the organs of digefliony becaufe the attenuation ot'
jirhuthnct.
the aliment makeJ it pcrfpirablr.

cavity of the body from the lower.
2. Any divifion or partition which divides

Di'bstone.

«.

/ A little ftone which

DiCA CITY. n.f. [dicacitas, Lat]

DIARRHOE'A. »./. [ha^foir,.] A flux of
whereby a perfon frequently
is cured either by

goes to ftool, and

purging off the caufe, or reftringing
^incy.
the bowels.
During hit £arrtcea I healed up the fontanels.
H^ifi-man.

1>iarrhoe'tick. <Mjr. [from diarrhaa.]
folu-

tive ; purgative.
Millet is (/;jrri>iv/iVi,cleanfing,and ufeful indifArbuthm;.
eafcsof the kidneys.

throw, that you do not cart any given let of faces
with four cubical dice; bccaufc there are fo many
fevcral combinations cf the fix faces of four dice j
now, after yon have cart all the trials but one, it is
ftill as much odds at the laft remaining time, as it
Benilry.

was at the firft.

servations of every day ; a journal.
Jn fea-voyages, wh-re there is nothing to be feen
but iky and fca, men make d'larUs \ but, in landtravel, wherein fo much is to be obferved, they
Bacdn.
omit it.
taller.
I go on in my intended diary.
[Jla^o^»l.]

A figure in rhetorick, by which a fljort

Di'cE-BOX. n.f. {dice and box.]

The lyiloie feems to refe i.ble the forcible bending of a Ipring, a id the diajiolc its flying ;ut again

Rayon the CreationDiA'sTYi, E. [Jra, and rix^'t a pillar.] A
iort of edifice, where the pillars ftand at
fuch. a diftance from one another, that
three diameters of their thicknefs are
allowed for intercolumniation.
Harris.
its

natural lla^e.

Diate'sseRON. n.f. [of^ia, and -ririrt^a,
four.]

An interval in,mufick, compofed

of one greater tone, one IcflTer, and one
greater fcmitone ; its proportion being
It is called, in mufias four to three.
cal compofition, a perfedl fourth. Harr,

Diato'nicic. [o{ iixrit&-.'\ The ordinary fort of raufick which proceeds by
different tones, either in afcending or

defcending.
It contains only the two
greater and leflTcr tones, and the greater
fcmi-tone.
Harris,

Diaze'utick ToHt. [of Jaand^tiJyK'f,*!.]
In the ancient Greek mufick, disjoined
two^fourths, one on each fide of it ; and
which, being joined to either, made a
This is, in ourmuiick, from A
fifth.
to B.

They allowed to tliii

The box

from which the dice are thrown.
What would you fay, rtiould you fee the fparkler
/baking her elbow for a whole night together, and
thumping the table with a dice-box ? Addif. Guard.

A player at

They make manlage vowj
As falfe as dicers' oaths. Shakifpeare's Hamlet.
DicH. This word feems corrupted from

Jiatutttick tone,

which

uur La, Mi, the proportion of nine to eighty as
beirg the unalterable difference of the fifth and
is

Harris.

fourth.

tion of ideas by pairs.

Skinner ; from dalble,

A imall fpade

;

'Junius.\

a pointed inftiument

others.

Nor is it a fmall power it givej one man over another, to have the authority to be the diHaur of
principles, and teacher of unqueftionable truths.
Liikf.
That riches, honours, and outward fplendour,

flnuld

tomies, trichotomies, fevens, twelves,

&c.

the reft of
lyatts*

Dictato'rial. adj. [from diaator. ] Authoritative ; confident ; dogmaticjil j o-

verbearing.

A

young acadcmick often dwells upon a journal,
or an obfervator that treats of trade and politicks
in

a diEiatatsal ftile, and is iavilh in the praife o£

ffatisr

the author.

Dicta'torship. n.f. [from diSator.]
1. The ofice of diftator.
This is the foleroneit title they can confer under
the princedom, being indeed a kind of di^iatorjhip,

fVitlM,

Authority jinfolent confidence.

2.

is

that perpetual diflaicrjoip which

is e«-

ercifcd by Lucretius, though often io the wrong.

DryJen,

Di'ctature. n.f. [diaatura.Lat.] The
Diai
oiEce of a didlator diftatorlhip.
Di'ction. n.f. [diaion, fr. diSio, Lat.]
Style ; language ; expreflion.
There appears inevciy part of his diction, orex-

Lee the

nature of the fubjeft, confidered t gcther with the
defign which you have in view, always determine
the number of partsintowhich you divide \t.lf^atii.

prelfion, a kind of noble and bold purity.

A book containing the words of any
language in alphabetical order, with
explanations of their meaning ; a lexi^con ; a vocabulary ; a word-book.
Some have delivered the polity of fpirits, and

A kind of adverbial exclamation, importing, as it feems, much
the fame with the dcvii ; but I know

not whence derived.
Where had you this pretty weathercock ?
] canjiot tell what the dickens his name is my
hulbind had him ol". SI. Meriy IVitus i/K'imlj.
What a dickens does he mean by a trivial fum ?
But ha'n't you found it. Sir ? Csngr. Old BachDi'cKER of Leather, n.f. [dicra, low Lat.]

Dia.

Ten hides.
[diiJo,

Lat.]

To

deliver to another with authority ; to declare with confidence.

The fpoils of elephants the roofs inlay,
And lludded amber darts a golden ray
;

Such, and not nobler, in the realms above.
My wonder diflales ]$ the dome of Jove. Pope's Od.
Whatfocver is diBated to us by God himfelf, or

account that tliey Itaiid in awe of char'ns,
and conjurations ; t'iat they are afraid of
letters and characters, notes and daOies, which, fee
tjgether, do fignify nothiag ; and not only in th«
dmitnary of man, but in the fubtler vocaoulary of
Broivn's Vulgar Erraurs,
Satan.
Is it fuch a fault to tranflate fimulacra images t
thing
it
what
a
good
is to have a good cathO'*
I fee
lick diSimary.
SiiUingJteet,
An army, or a parliament, is a collc3ion of
men ; a diltionary, or nomenclature, is a coUeflion
of words.
M^Mts,
Did. of ^0. [bib, S.ixon.]
left an

fpells,

1

fcription ; prefcript.
Thofc right helps of art, which will force be
found by thofe who fervilely confine themfelves to
Locke.
the rfiflarci of others.
I cr'^dit what the Grecian difljtit fay,
And Samian founds o"er Scota's hills convey. Priir.
Then let iXmHiSate of my love prevail. Pofe't Od.

The

aft or pradlice of dilating or prcfcrib-

Dia.

The preterite of do.
Thou canil not fay I did it.
Siakifprofi,
What did that greatnefs in a woman's mind ?

by men who are divinely infpired, mud be believed
}Kitls.
with full aflurance.

Di'cTATE. n.f. [diaatum, Lat.] Rule or
maxim delivered with authority ; pre-

DryJcn,

Di'ctionary. n.f. [diaionarium, Lat.]

Di'cKENS.

ing.

fet up peifons fcvc dOlators to all

mankind, is a molVlhameful invafion of the right

;

Di'BBtE.n./ [from «'lf)9/>/, Dutch, afliarp Dicta'tion. n.f. [from dilate.]
point.

him to direct the condudt or opinion of

This

Rich men fin, and I eat root
Much good dich thy good heart, Apemantus. Shak.
Dicho'tomy. n.f. [}iy(tiroji'M.'\ Diftribu-

To DI'CTATE. V. a.

Afi'i:nm

One whofe credit or authority enables

dil for do it.

and abufed their readers by an alfe^ation of dicljo-

The dilation of the heart.

To him, their great diffator.
3.

of our underftunding.

was as virtuoudy given as a gentleman need
to be ; virtuous enough ; fwore little ; diced not
Shaktfp. Henry IV.
above feven times a week.
i

Some perfons have difturbcd the order of nature,

fyllable is made long.

to

To

the noun.]

Di'ary. n./. [diarium. Lat.] An account Di'cER. n.f. [from dice-l
dice ; a gamefter.
of the tranfadlions, accidents, and ob-

2.

See Di e.

I: is above a hundred to one aga'nD any particular

TbDice. 'V. n. [from
game with dice.

Unanimous they all commit the care

And management of this main enterprize

FertDiil.

DICE. n.f. The plural of <//>.

One itivefted with abfolute ai-.thority.

2.

Lxke.

at diMeitti.

•

Kind diHalirs made, w'-.en they came home.
Their vanquilh'd foes Ireecitiiens of Rome. Ifalur.
Julius with honour tam'd Rome's foreign fo«5 J
Prior.
But patriots fell, ere the diSinnr rofe.

i have feen little girli exeicife whole hours together, and take abundance of pains, to be expert

It conlifts of a fafciculus of bodies, round, about one fixtli of an inch in diameter, holbw, and
parted inConumerous cells by means oidiapbra^mt,
thick fet throughout tiie whole length of the body.
fyoodvvard en Foffilt.

1

/-

children throw at another ftone.

a hollow body.

Kia'stOLE. ». /

1
r,
1
:
of exigence and diftrefs, and inverted
with abfolute authority.

'rufr'i Uu/haniry.

nefs : faucinefs.

Promoting the flux of the belly ;

DICTATOR, n.f [Lat.]
I. A magiftrate of Rome made in times
j'ii
A-J

and fpade.
By line and by level trim garden is male.

Di'aphraCM. n. /. [^laf^ay/xa ]
1. The midriff which divides the upper

die belly,

D I D

D I C

Ill

2.

lodg'd, and weak toaQ what it defign'd. Dryd,

The fign of the prcter-imperfeil tenfe,
or perfedl.

When did his pen on learning fix a brand,
Or rail at arts he did not undesftand ?
DiyJen,
3. It is fomctimes ufed emphatically ; as,
I r/;i/ really love him.

niDA'cTicAL.7 a^.
Dida'ctick.

[JiJix"iK©..]

Pre-

ceptivc ; giving preas a didaaick poem is a poent
cepts
that gives rules for fooie art ; as the
3

:

Georgicks.

The

D I E

D I E

The means ufed to this purpofe ve psrtly di-

4. 0/"beforea difeafe.

ScBkal, and partly protrepticai J domonfti-ating tKe
truth of the gofpel, and then urging the protefl'ors
of thofe truths to be ledi'aft in the faith, and to
beware of infidelity.
IVard :n Infiddhy,

ff^ifeman.

a pohtive caufe : thefe prepofitions are not always truly diftinguiihed.

At fird (he dartles, then (he ibnds amjz'd ;
At lad with terror fhe from thentc Jotli fly.
And loaths the wat'ry glafs wherein (he gaz'd.

:

Hipparchus being pafTionately fond of his own
vi''fe, who was enamoured of Batliyllus, leaped and

Germ.] To quake with cold ; to fhiver.

died of \\\% ia\\.

1/.

a.

10.

11.

And (hining funs defcend to fable night

2.

1

have to do.

Dinbam.

To perilh by violence or difeafe.
The dira only ferved to confirm him in his firft
opinion, that it was his deftiny to die in the enfuing combat.
Drjden.
Talk not of life or rsnfom, be replies
Patroclus dead, whoever ireets tr.t, diet ;
In vain a fingle Trjan fucs f,>r grace;
Bat leaft the fons Gf^i^ri-im's hateful race
Die then, my friend what boots it to deplore ?

charaftcr.

forth much fruit.
1

4.

A.id puige th' obftruclions v.hich begin to dop

Our very >eins of life.
Shalijpeare't Henry IV,.
He was not taken well he had not din'd
The veins unfill'd, our blood is cold ; and then

Teller.

;

To give or to forgive

To grow vapid, as liquor.

I .will

before an inftrument of death.
Their young men Ihall dit hy the fword ; their

Jecm.

Sbakejp. CorioU^
attend my hufband, be his nurfc,

Milton

And I will ftand the hazard of the die.

We

.

He knows which way the lot and the die fhall

have lived upon expedienta^ of which no
country h.id Icl'soccafion : we have rfirrri/ a healthy
body into a coufum^tion, byj)lying it with phyfick
indead of food.
S^vift.

2.

Eftfoons his cruel hand Sir Cuyon daid,

Tcmp'ring the palTion with advifcment (low.
And muft'ring might on enemy difmay'd ;
For th' eijual rfje of war he well did know, tairy ^.

1

Diet his fickntfs; for it is my ofHce. Sbakejfeart^
H-.:nceforth my early ciire
Shall tend thee, and the fertile burden eafe {
'1 ll(, dieted by thee, 1 grow mauire
In knowii-dge as the gods, who all'things know.

fall» as perfeilly as if they were alisady cj(U South.

It has by

but when we've ftuff'd

Till he be dieted to my requed.

KeepagamederfromthcrfiVf, and a-good rtudent
from his book, and it is wonderful. Shakejfearc.
I have fct my life upon a caft,

Hazard ; chance.

;

Thcfe pipes, and thefe conveyances of blood,
With wine and feeding, we have fupplcr fouls
Than in our pricftlike fads ; therefore I'll watch hint

Die, n.f. pi. due. [de, Fr. di,, Welflr.]
I. Afmall cube, marked on its faces with
numbers from one to fix, which gamefters throw in play.

I.

;

We powl upon the morning, are unapt

-

Jota.

Shakcjpeare'i Richard \M.

was a continual diet given

there

Shew a while like fearful war,

To wither, as a vegetable.

Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground,
and die, it abideth alone; but if it die it biingeth

diet,

To diet rank minds fick of happinefs,

The young men acknowledged, in love-letter;,
that they ditd for Rebecca.

I

PDft'i H-m'r.

ions acd daughters /haU die ly taminc.

Addifon'i S/^eaaur.

[In the flyle of lovers.] Tx) languifh
with afteflion.

12.

13.

Ttrnfle^^

Allowance of provifion;
For his

on all the other beauties, and darkens the whole

!

He, far thy bttter, was foredoom'd to dic^
Aod thou, daft thou, bewail mortality >

J-.

fait or vinegar.

him by the king.
Jeremiah.
To Di'iiT. -v. a. [from the noun.]
1. To feed by the ruks of medicine..
She diets him with fading every day.
The fwclling of his wounds to mitigate.
And made him .pray botli early and eke late,.
Fairy ^eeiu«

:

The great, the good Patroclus it no more

I commend rather fomcdier for certain feaibns^'
than frequent ufe of phylick ; for thofe diets alter
the body more, and trouble it lefs.
Bacon.
1 reftrained myfelf to fo regular a diet, as to eat
flelh but oncea-day, and little at a time, without

This battle fares like to the morning's war,

and difciopear, amidft the brightnefs that furrounds

Sidrcy.

Oh
me
my
To live and die is all

dtfeale.

3.

them i but a blot of a deeper nature cads a fhade

Nor did the third his con^uefts long furvivc,
Dj'"<l! ere fcarce he had begun to live. Addif. Ov.
live
let
own, and </;.• fo too !

Food regulated by the rules of medicine, for the prevention or cure of any

2.

To vaniih.
Sbakefj^eare.

Sax.]
1. To lofe life; to expire; to pafs into
another ftate of exillence.

art tlw murtherer.

where acrimony is to be purged or avoided ;.
but not where the canals are obdru^ej, it being
void of all fatine quality.
Atluthnot,

To languilh with pleafure or tender-

The fmaller ftains and blemifhes may die away

[feiafeian.

Thou dod kill me with thy falfehood; and it
grieves me not to die, but it grieves me that thou

Milk appears to be a proper diet for human bodies,

Samuel.

When dymg clouds sontend wiUi growing light.

Ev'n heav'n itfclf receives anotficr dity
When wea.ied animals^ in lumbers lie
Of midnight eafe ; another, when the grey
Of morn preludes the fplendor of the day.. Dryd.
It is furprifing to fee the im%ei of the mind
ftampcJ upon the afpefl ; to fee the cheeks take

foDiE.*'. ».

natural, and fo agreeable' to the domach, as good
and well-ripened fruits.
Temfle,

To founds of heav'niy harps (he diet away,
And melts in vifions of eternal day,
Pofe.

New Atlamh.

Raleigh^-

No inconvenient ditt, nor too light fare, Jirdtsnt
No part of diet, in any fcafon, is fo healthful, fa-

nefs.

We have dainty works of /cathcts of wonderful

of diet, tiian to maintain life,

Time may come, when men
With angels may participate ; and find

Haktivill on Providence.

die.

Jiaira.Jj

They cared for no other delicacy of fare, or curiofity

[In theology.] T^ perifli everlaftingly.
So long at Cod (hall live, folong (hall the damned

9.

lttAre,.excelleat dht, and many.

the die of the paflions, and appear in all the colours of thought.
C-jUUr of lit jiffeH.

I

;

tuals.

to faint.
;
His heart died within him, and he became as a

lone.

Shck-fftare's Hinry VIII.

Darknefs we fee emerges into light,

coblers, diers, and Ihoe-

Food ; provifions for the mouth; vic--

1.

To fink

8.
;

me nothing

Bjccn't

Jiammottd.

letting the fecret die within his own bread. SficH.

Milinri.

To plead mine innocence ; for that die is on me,
'Which makes my whit'ft part black.

:

makers gave pubiick fhows to the people,
Arbutlnot on Coins*

Ufing thofe thoughts which (hould indeed have died
With them they think on. Staiejfeare's Macheib.
If any fovereignty, on account of his property,
had been veded in Adam, which in truth there
was not, it would have died with him.
Locke.
Whatever pleafure any man may take in fpreading whifpers, he will find greater fatisfaftion by

[beaj, Sajpon, a colour.]

It will help

who acquired great edates

How now, my lord, why do you keep alone ?
Of forried fancies your companion making,

to colour ; to ftain.
So much of death her thoughts
Had entectain'd, as died her cheeks with pale.
All white, a virgin faint flie fought the fkies

The fleece, that has been by the dier ftain'd.

thing.

;

For marriage, though it lullics not, it d:cs. Dryd.
Die. n.f. [from the verb.] Colour; tincture ; {lain ; hue acquired.

Smifi,-

Never again its native whiteoefs gain'd. Ifailer.
There were fome of very low rank and profcfTions

7. To be loft ; to perifli ; to come to no-

which, though ftrongly fattened to the infide of the
receiver and fuperficies of the bladder, muft draw
as forcibly one as another, in comparifon of thcfe
that within the bladder draw fo as to hinder the
(ftWaflicB of its fides.
Biy!-.

To tinge

Addifon.

whom Chrift died.

He ought to (hew what kind of firings they are,

To DIE.

terfeits more difliciilt.

Di'er.//./ [from <//>,] One who followsthe trade of dying ; one who dies clothes,-

What is the love of our neighbour ?—
—The valuing him as the image of God, one for DI'ET. n.f. [dicela, low Latin

Diou'cTioN. n.f. [diduaio, Latin.] Sethe other.

Such a variety oC dies made ufe of by Wood ia
ttamping his money, makes the difcovery of coun-

If I die for it, as no lefs is threatened me, the
king my old matter mud be relieved,
Shakejpeare^s King Lear.

.

'.

paration by withdrawing one part from

coinage.

To be punilhed with death.

6.

The ftamp ufed iiii

Die. n.f. plur. dies.

And fliuns it dill, altho'/ir third ilie die. Duvies.
He in the leaden vineyard diesfcr third. Addij.

TaDi'DDER. I'.fl. \diddtrn,Te\iX.. xitttrn.

D

Young creatures have learned fpelling of words-"
by havinj^^h^m palled upon litt'.e flat tablets or d\e%t
Walls,

£/" before

fome ftory, and give
a kind of body to the poem under what fpecics it
may be comprehended, whether dtiafiaUck or heroiclc, I leave to the judgment of the criticks. Pr'nr.

See
tenfe oi do.
i d .
Oh lali and bed of Scots who didlt maintain
Thy country's fteedom from a foreign reign. Dryi.

Any cubick body.

3.

For commonly before a privative, and

5.

I found it neceniry to form

Skinner.

'i'hine is th' adventure, thine :he victory :

Well has thy fortune turn'd the die for thee. Dryd,-

died a/n, or at leaft have been very infirm.

fome art.

The fecond perfon of the preter

Under my fpear; fuch is the (/if of war. Vairy?^

the appearance of found bodies; which, notvvithftanding, have been infciSed with difeafe, and have

dives into the water.
DiDAscA'ticK. adj. [JiJao-xaAix^.] Preceptive ; didadlick ; giving precepts in

A provincial word.

So both to battle fierce arranged are }
In which his harder fortune was to fall

They often come into the world clear, and with

Di'DAPPER. r../, [from <///>,] A bird that

Didst.

D I E

'

3.

To give- food to.
I'm paitly led to diet my rovcngc,
For that I do fufpeft the lufty MoorHathleaptintomyfe.it.
Shakrffeare's Olbelitt

To board ; to fuppjy with dictr

D I F
To eat

i

Oryden.

Sp<r<r (al>, thu oft wUh gods doth flirt.
Milieu.
Di'et-drinic. »./ [Jiet and JriaJr.] Medicated liquors ; drink brewed with

imif.

dict-drmii, or apothecary's medicines.

You (hall fee great difference betwixt our BoheSbakcjf. Winter' itaU.
Oh the (Irtnge dffcrtmce of man and man
To iliee a woman's Cervices arc due

mia and your Sicilia.

!

An rmperur in title without territory, who can
(iartical

and temporal.

to the rules of diet.

Di'eter.

/

«.

jjrefcribes

Di£i.

One who
eating ; one who

[from diet.]

rules

for

prepares food by medicinal roles.

philofnphy.

To be diftinguifhed from

;

8.

Bacon.

Nor how the \\t:xodi^cr% from the brute, jidd. Catc.
The feveral parts of the lame animal differ in

To contend to be at variance.
A man of judgment Ihall fomc:imcs hear igno-

To Di'fference. "J. a. [from the noun.]

To caufe a difference

binations of letters are framed by the very fame
motions of thofe orcrans which are commonly obferved,

by

differenced

Gr.ifs differenceth a civil

DIFFERENT, adj. [(rom differ.']

Di'FFlCULT. adj. [diffcilis, Latin.]
I.

Hard ; not eafy ; not facil.

z.

Troublefome ; vexatious.

3.

Hard to pleafe

It is difficult in the eyes of this people. Zachar,

z.

Hooker.

3.

Unlike ;

diflimilar.
Neither the Ihape of faces, nor the age, nor the
colour, ought to be alike in all figures, any more
than the hair ; becaiife men arc as different from
each other, as the tegioas ia which they arc burir
arc different*
Prjden's Dujrejr.oy.

difficult,]

A

man, wljo has always indulged himfelf in the
full enjoyment of his ftation, wili Ji^fi////y be perfuaJcd to think any methods unjult that ofter to
continue it.
RcfertU Sermons.

Di'fficulty. n./. [horn difficult ; diffi.
1

cuke, French.]
Hardnefs ; contrariety to eafinefs or facility.

The religion which, by this covenant, we en.
gag? ourfclves to obfene, is a work of labour and
difftulty; a feivice that requires our greatefl care
and attention.
Rogers,

Of contrary qualities.
Sweet native home for unaccuft.nn'd air,
And other climes, where diff'rent food aW fiil
Portend dillcmpers.
Ptilift-

pee\'ilh ; morofe.

Hardly ; with difiiculty.

jSddiJon on Italy.

The Britons change

j

Di'fficultly. adv. [from

Diftinft ; not the fame.
There are covered galleries that lead from thp

I.

between culloms of the church doth no

not in the beginning given to the fucccffion of
Raleigh.
Hood, but to the fuccelTion of virtue.

oppofc, or dijicilnefi, or the like j but the deeper
fort, to envy and mere mifchicf.
Bacon,

Pope's Effay en Homer.

a

another.
This nobility, or dfferenet from the vulgar, was

:

re«

We

palace to five different churches.

The quality by which one differs from

There be tliat in their nature do not af{e€t the
good of others
the lighter fort of malignity turneth but to a croffnefs, or frowardnefs, or aptnefs to

other concurrent
Bolder.

and well cultivated

gion from a barren and def date wilderntfs.
Rjy.
fee nothing that differences the courage of
Mneftheus from that of Sergefthus.

Di't'fer.e»'ce. It./, \differenlia, Latin.]

harm.

and are

caufcs.

Ch.yne.

State of being diftinft from fomething ;
contrariety to identity.

make one

incompliance ;

A word not in ufe,

but proper.

Moil arc apt to feck all the differences of letters

In things purely fpeculative, as thefe are, and no
ingredients of our faith, it is free to differ from
one another in out opiniont and fentiments.
Burnett Theory.
There are certain, meafures to be kept, which
may leave a tendency tather to gain than to irritate
thute who dffer with you in their fcntiments.

Others differ with roe about the truth and rea-

to

in thofe articulating motions; whereas feveral com-

Rtwe,

jitldijun's Freeholder.

;

thing not the fame as another.

To be of a contrary opinion.

difference

ficulty to be perfuaded ;

DiftiniSl kind.

;

Where the faith of the holy church is one,

DiFFt'ciLNESs. ti.f. [from difficil.] Difimprafticability.

brake or fern.

rant men dijfir, and know well within himfelf that
thofe which fo differ mean one thing, and yet they
thenifclves never agree.
Been.
Here uncontroll'd you may in judgment fit j

Than to a blackbird 'tis to whiftle.
Hudihras.
Scrupulous ; hard to be perfuaded.
The cardinal finding the pope difficil in granting
it as a principal argument, concerning the king's merit, that he had
touched none of thofe dcniers which had been levied by popes in England.
Bacon.

differential

This is notorioufly known in fome difference! of
Brcn'ns Vulgar Errcurs.

j1rbuil>n)t,

GlanvUle's Scejjit.
Latin was not more difficil.

the difpenfation, doth ufe

thofe things in execution which arc the true marks
and dffcri'vrei n( fovcreignty.
Davia.

9.

of as difficil appreheniion as any myftery in na-

ture.

2.

Bacon.

Evidences of diftinftion ;
marks.

BcKle.

Difficult; hard; not eafy j not obvious.
Little ufed.
That that Ihnuld give motion to an unweildr
bulk, which itfelf hath neither bulk nor motion,
is

Honry had the title of fovereign, yet did not put

Thy prejudices, Syphax, won't difcern
What virtues grow (rom ignorance and choice,

lity of thefe f|<ccu]atlons.

1.

A logical diftinftion.
matter.

If the pipe be a littie «et on the inlide, it wil;
make a diffcrirg found from the fame pipe dry.

We'll never r.'i^r with a crowded pit.

lour.

DIFFI'CIL. adj. [diffcilis, Latin.]

jiddifin's Freeholder.

Somf are never without a difference j and commonly, by amufing men with a fubtilty, blanch the

fame with

thofe of another pcrfon or thing.

2.

may remit the light fo differingly, as to vary a co-

Sbaheffeare,

to have pro-

their qualities.

Such protuberant and concave parts of a furface

Nothing could have fallen out more unluckily

verfy.
Are you acquainted with the difference
That holds this prefent guelUon in the court ?
7.

differing.]

In a different manner.

Point in queftionj ground of contro-

6.

jiddifm,

[from

Sand'fi.

criminal.

Latin ]

perties and qualities not the

by an ordinary genius.

Di'fferinolv. adv.

Our conftltution docs not only make z difference
between the guilty and the innocent, but, even
among the guilty, between fuch as are more orlefs

jiibuthnot on /ilimcnti, Prcf.

[differo,

the fame thought, which prefents itfelf in a great
writer, from what he it when he finds it delivered

Dittinftion.

5.

He received no other counfel than to refrain

tick

Hayward.

than that there iTiould be fuch differences among
them about that which they pretend to be the only
TMIoijon.
means of ending dfferencei.

of food.

Ta DI'FFER. V. n.

In a different manner.
He may conlidcrhow dffertntly he is afFefted by

to fpoll.

J^iete'tick.

from cold drink, which was but a dietttieal caution,
and fuch as culinary prefcription might have afforded.
Brnvni Vutgur Ernuri
This book of Cheyne's became the fubjcit ol
converration, and produced even fctts in ihe dierc-

Here might be fcen a great difference betv\eer

4. Difpute ; debate ; quarrel ; controverfy.
What was the difference f
It was a contention in pubiick. Sbak. Cymh,
He is weary of his life, tliat hith a dfferencc with
any «-f them, and will walk abroad after daylight.

[J>aiTw«»:.] Relat-

j ing to diet ; belonging
to the medicinal cautions about the ule

Harris.

Dj'pferently. adti. [from different.]

men praflifed to £ght, and men accuftnmed only

He iauc'd our broth as Juno had been fick,
And he her dieter.
Skairfpearti Cymbclive.

Diete'ticxl. 7 a<2ir.

infinitefimals.

Shate'f. King tear.

My fool ufurps my body.

RaUigb.

DTetary. adj. (from diet.'] Pertaining

Lr.tke,
^

is

;

ordain nothing of importance but by a diet, or afIconbly of the elVaccs ot'many free princesi cccle-

1

by the qualities ot

An

a multitude, Junius.]
afienibly of princes or eftates.

J.

Locke.

The difproportion between one thing

Skinner ; from diet, an old German word
fignifying

2.

tj be

and another, caufcd
each.

Di'ht. n.f. [from dies, an appointed day,

nuw thefe, to different men, are very different

applied to
the doi^rine -of infinitefimals, or infinitely imall quantities, called the arithmetick of fluxions. It confills in defccnding from whole quantities to their
infinitely imall differences, and comparing together thefe infinitely fmall
differences, ot what kind focver they be
and from thence it takes the name of
the differential calculus, or analyfis of

to confider every </j/f(«.< that

3.

:

Difpere'nti AL Method,

found in ratuie, yet It it not convenient
is in things, and
divide them into diftinfl daffes under every fuch
is

difference,

The obfcrvaton will do thit better than the lady'-.

pain

things.

Though it be ufeful to diftern every variety th.it

medicinal ingre4ients.

1.

Happing conGfts in th'mgs which produce plei.
furc, and in the abfencc of thofe which caufe any

The d:ff"retieet\\U diftinguifli'd man from man!
He claim'd no tiile from dcfcent of blood
But that, which made him noble, made him good.

to Teed.
1 join with the,- calm peace and quiet;

"

n I F

.

Thus, born alike, fmm »lrtue firft legiB

Te Di'et. v. n.
ly.To eat by rules of phyfick.
a".

D I F

.

2. That which is hard to accomplilh ; that
which is not eafy.
They miftake difficulties for impoflibilities : a
pernicious miftake certainly; and the more per.
nicious, for that men arc feldom convinced of it,
till their convidtluns do them no good.
South.

3.

Diftrefs ; oppofition.
Thus, by degrees, he rjfe to Jove's imperial feafi

Thus i/i^.<(/ri«provealouUcgitimately great. /)r)'£/.
4. Perplexity

b rif

D I F

4. Perplexity in affairs ; uneaMefs of cir-

as, a difform flower, one of
which the leaves are unlike each other.
The unequal refradions of dijfcnr. rays proceed

cumAances.
They lie under fome difficulties by reafon of the
emperor's difpleafur^, fcho has forbidden their manutaaures.
MM/in on Italy.

Men Aould confider, that raJfingrf/^f »/<;"« con-

verfity

to have no confidence in.
With hope and fear
The woman did the new folution hear:

formed all things belt.

Bacon's Henry VII.

To waver.
Miltcn's Agtmj/le,.
Doubt; want of confidence in ourfelves.
If the evidence of its being, or that this is its
true fenfe, be only on probable proofs, our aflent

Difinifs not her, when moft thou need'ft her

nigh.
Miiton.
.
_,.
,
,
Plmy fpeaks of^ the
Seres, the fame people with
the Chincfe, as being very fliy and d'^mt in
their
marner of dealing.
jirbuthnci.

not willingly to admit the counfcl of others
but
j
yet I am not fo diffident of myfelf, as brutifhiy

to

Dm.
Dia.

T,
D-i FPLUENCE. \n./. [from
diffluo, Lzt.-\
Di PFLUEKCY. f The quality of falling

away on all fides; the effect of fluidity
'
the contrary to confiftency.

waccr cong-aleJ by the frigidity
of rhe
new form, but rather
a confiftence or determination of ifs
diffiucncf
and
amitteth not its efibncc,- but condition
of Huidity.
iL

air, whereby it acquireth no

:

,

'"

beheld a door.

2.

—He
"-

Let them from forth a fawpit ru(h at once,
Slak. M. fV. ofmndf.

He grows like favages.

3.

To fwearing and ftern looks, diffas'd attire,
And every thing that feems unnatuial.
ifhaicffjearc's

Henry V".

difperfedly ;

in

manner of

Brmns rulgar Err,,urs.

Di FFLUENT. adj. [dtffluen,, Lat.] Flow-

Diffi/sedness.

n, f.

that

The (late of being diffuied ; diiperfion.
Widely; extenfively.
Copioufly; not concifely.
Difperfion ;

5.

Whereas all bodies aft cither by the communication of their natures, or by th* imprcirioBs .md
fignatuics of their motions, the diffufon n( f|)ecies

more of the farmer

operation, and the fpcciej; audible nf the latter.

Bacrn's Natural Ilijlory.

A ffieet of very well flecked marbled paper did

not call diftir.a colours upon the wall, nor throiv
its light with an equal diffufion;
but threw its
beams, undjined and bright, to th^s and that part
of the wall.
Boyle on Colours.

"O'.confifte'it; not fixed.
.2. Copioufnefs ; exuberance of (lyleJ"r?r.^^''^"'*>''.
adj. [horn rorm'a.
Latin.] DiFPu'siVB. adj, [i}om
'^
diffufe.]
"
Contrary to uniform,
having
;
parts, of
„.
^^
I. Having the quality of Icattering
different flruOuxe ; diffimilar ;
unlike
thing every way.

Drydens Virgil;^

To pierce with a fljarp point.

Drydsn's JEneiJ.

To gain by digging.

It is digged out of even the highed
raoiintjlns,
snd all parts of the earth contingently; as the
py,
'•''^IVoodward^
Nor was the ground alone- requir'd to bear
Her annual income to the crooked fliarc
But greedy mortals, ninimaging her ftore,

\^ ftate of being fcattered

every way

vifible fee.-ncih to participate

To cultivate the ground by turning it
with a fpade.
The walls of your garden, without their furni-

.

DiFFu'siON. n.f, [from diffufe.]
I.

2 Cira;. xxvl. 10.

A.rav'nous vulture in his opcn'd fide
Her crooked beak and cruel talons tried
;
Still for the growing liver digg'd
his breaft,
The growing liver ftiU fupplied the fcjft.

DiFFu'sELY. adv. [nom diffufe.]
1.

and diggtd many

for he had mucli cattle.

The branches lopt.
4.

[from dffu/id.]

2.

built tjwers in the defert,

ture, look as ill as thofc of your houfc
fo that
;
you cannot dig up your garden too often. Temple.
Be firll to dig the ground, be firft to burn

Di ffu'se d ly. ad-j, [from diffufed.] Widely ;

Exek,

To form by digging.

Seek with heart and mouth to buildup the wall*
of -Jerufalem, which you have broken down
and
;
to fill up the mines that you have digged, by
craft
and fubticty, to overthrow the fame.'
WiAigft..

which is fpread every way.

ad of fcattcring with a blatt of wind.

,.

ditch; i/v^iTiDanilh, to dig.j
To pierce with a fpade..Then laid he unto mc, Son of man, dig now In
the wall ; and when I had digged in the wall,
I

1

uncouth, irregular.

King Charles.

Diffla'tio.v. «./. {dtfflare, Latin.] The

_ ,

DrydenU Good Parfon,
adj. {diffu/us, Latin.]

Scattered ; widely fpread.
Copious ; not concife.
Di ffu'se d. participial adj. [from diffufe.]
This word feems to have fignified, in
Shake/feare's time, the fame as wild,

diffident.

To piFFI'ND. -v. a. [diffirtdo, Latinffro
cleave in two; to fpl it.
£)/^7
DiFF.'ssiON. „./ [diJiJJio.Luin.] The

Ice

'V. a, preter.
dug, or digged
part. paff. dug, or digged, [bic, Saxon, »

2.

Pmic.

it.

"

To DIG.

And charity itfclfwas in his face.

Doubtful of himfelf; not confident.
I am not fo confident of my own
fufficicncy, as

you have fometimes the whola.
medal over-run with it. Addij. on Med,

diffufi-..er,ejs :

fiJe of a

Drydtn,

»

e

The fault that I find with a modern legend. Is
its

His eyes diffused a venerable grace.

With fome diffufed fong.

Want 6f concifeneis ; large compal's of
exprefiion.

And through the conquer'd world dijitfe our fame.

I was reaUy fo diffident of it,
to let it lie by
thcfc two years, juft as you now fee

diffitf,'ve.'\

diffufing ; the ftate of being diffufed.
2.

A chief renown'd in war,

Doubtful of an event, ufed of things
;

[from

Widely; extenfively; every way.
Diffu'siveness. n.f. [from diffuftve.]
1. Extenfion ; difperfion;
the power of

Whofe race (hall bear alo.l the Latian name.

uncertain.

aft of cleaving or fplitting.

Diffu'sively. adu.

to dil'perfe.

1

deferts thee not, if thou

Diftrefs makes the humble heart

infallibility is fcated ; whether in the pope
alone,
or a council al.mc, or in botli together, or
in the
diffuffvs body of Chriftians.
Titictfin.

Of fpirits malign, a better race to bring

Diffu'sb.

Be not diffident

;

^'Sf^ •''"" her entraili firft the precious ore.
Dryden's Oi'iJ,.

,_

To Die. -v. n. To work with' a fpade ; to
work in making holes, or tca-ning the
ground..
They long for death,.but it comethnot
,

forit mo.e than fjr hid treafures,

;

and dir

'Job,Wu^x,

The Italians have often dug into lanJs, defcribed

DrFFORiM.

in old authori as the places

'

liflts

I

any

j

Extended.
They arc not agreed among themfelves where

3.

Into their vacant room, and thence diffufe
His good to worlds, and ages, infinite.
Milton.
No fedl wanu iu apoftles to propagate and diffufe
"•
Decay of Piety,

Di'ffjdent. adj. [horn diffide.}
doubting others.

To fpread ; to fcatter

buds their opening bloom dililole.

And round the happy foil diffuf-ve odour flows.

Wifdom had ordain'd
Good out of evil to create; inftead

Pipe.

fubmit to any man's diftates.

Dry den ^
.
Cherifh'd with hope, and fed with joy, it grows
Its cheerful

Burnet's Theory,

2.

Whatfoever atheifts think on, or whatfoever
they look on, all do adminiller fome reafons for
fufpicion and diffidence, left poflibly they may
be
in the wrong ; and then it is a fearful thing to fall
into the hands of the living God.
Bentley.

me

And upward Ihoot, and kindle as tliey psis.
And with i/i^i</t»lighc.adorn their heav'nly placeV

tains, they would diffuje themfelves every way.

"." "".'' "" higher than an affurance or diffidence
arifing from the more or lefs apparent probability
of the proofs.
Ltcie.
Be fiient always when you doubt your fenfe
And fpealc, though fure, with feeming diffidence.

3.

Brmvn's Vulgar Erraurs,

When thefe waters began to rife at (irft,. long
before they coi,ld fwell to the height of the moun-

To IfracI, diffidence of God, and doubt
In feeble hearts, propenfe enough before

2.

to profecute his amours all the world over.
South,
The ftars, no longer overlaid witli weight.
Exert their heads from underneath the mafs.

To pour out upon a plane, fo that the
liquor may run every way ; to pour
without particular diredlion.

1.

Burnet's Theory of the Earths

No man is of fo general and diffujive a lull, as

r^DIFFU'SE. -v. a. [difu/us, Latin.]

You have brought fcandal

flie

fallofl'any way.

privileges of a city.

commune or talk one with another;
but there was a general diffidence every where.

Ofwifdom;

All liquid bodies are diffuftve ; for their parts,
being in motion, have no connexion, but glide and

of form j irregularity ; dilTimi-

Diffra'nchisement. n.f. [franchiji,
French.] The aft of taking away the

durft fcarce

1. Diftruftful;

lity of fuffering diffufion.

While they murmur againft the prefent difpofurc
of things, they defire in them a difformily from
the primitive rule, and the idea of that mind that

diftruft;

•.

Scattered; difperfed ; having the qua-

2.

litude.

To DIFFI'DE, V. n. yiffido, Latin.] To

where'er thev pals

Their valour works like bodies on a glafs,
And aces its image on their men projeft. Dryd.

Diffo'rmitv. «./ [from aV^rwj.] Di-

cerning the myfteries in religion, cannot make
them more wife, learned, or virtuous.
Swift.

2.

T>'iffufive of ttienfclves,

Thiy make thtit wainith in others they'expcdl

not from any contingent irregularities ; fuch as are
veins, an uneven poliih, or fortuitous pofition of
the pores of glafs.
K^wton.

'5. Objedion; cavil.

The man ii^dei in his own augury.
And doubts the gods.
Dryder.
Di'ffidence. n./. [from e/ij^t/e.]
1. Diftruft; want of confidence in others.
No man almoft thought himfell' fecure, and men

D I G

irregular :

where ftatues or obe-

ftood, and feldoao failed of fuccefs.

Addifon's Travels.

T»

.

D I G
y» Dig up. v. a. To throw up that which
iliy

to reduce them into a fluid (late.

turefather! gravfs,

It vA-ouM

not (like rr.i e ire.

That which

4.

And bun^ tiicir rutlen coffins up in chains*

R

cc is of excellent ufe for all illnefTrs of the
ftomach, a great reftoter of health, and a grcdt

Djge'stible. adj. [from digej}.'] That

Dr. Champnv only proves, that archbifliop Cranwhich is not denied bu;
brings nothing to proy; that fuch bigamy, or digjjirji rather, deprives a bilbup of the lawful ufe of his
power of ordainirg,
£i^*> Frrre.

I'liofc medicines that purge by ftool are, at the
fill), not digifiibit by the llvmach, and diierefure

caufing digeftion.
Di3.
Di'oES r. n.J. [digejla, Latin.] The pan-

continuance of the aliment in the ftomach : vegetable putrefaftion refembles very much animal di-

labour to a tired digeji,c,n.

3.

5*

Firrt, let us go to dinner*

fun or moon.

Any of the numbers exprefled by (ingle

3.

any number to ten fo called
from counting upon the fingers.
figures ;

:

Not only the nuii^b^>s leven a -rt nme, from con«
fiderations abftrufe, have been extolled by moft,

but all or m^ft of other digits have been as myftically applauded.
£r>tvn s Vulgar Errours,

Di'gitated. adj. [from digitus, Latin.]
Branched out intodivifions like lingers ;
as a digitated ieat is a leaf compofed of

many (mall leaves.
For aniniali muitifidous, or fuch as are digitated,
or have I'eveiai divifions in thrir feet, there ate but

lemptc.

The aft of difpofmg a wound to gene-

two that are uniparous;

rate matter.

phan'S.

that is, men and elc.
Bryjun^t Vulgar Errcurs,

The difpofition of a wound or fore to Dici.adia'tiON. n./. [diglaaiatia, La-

A

tin ]
combat with fwords; any quarrel or contert.
Arift' tie Iccms purpofely to intend the cherifliing of jcontrpverfial diglaitiutiani, by his own alTcction of an intricate ohlcurity.
Gtarville^s $,cf-^s,

The firft liage of healing, or the difcharge of

'Ginning i' th' middle : darting thence away
To what may be d'lgrjitd in a play. Slakcffeare.

nance ; not to rejeft.

The twelfth part of the diameter of the

generate matter*

l,eaps o'«r the vaunt and firftlings of thofe broils,

Bcyle^s Spring cf the Air,

fphcre.
2.

Reduftion to a plan ; the aft of methodifiiig ; the maturation of a defign.
The d'tgcjlton of the counfels in Swedjii is made
in fcnatc, conlilting of forty counfellors, who are

4.

cannot prefs the fubjacent mercury with

the air, reaching then<;e to the top of the atroo-

Did chymick chance the furnaces prepare,
Raife all the Ubour-houfes of the air.
And lay crude vapours mdigejikn there ? B/acimcre.

it

fo great a force as doth the incumbent cylinder of

Bacon s Natural Hijiory.

generally the greateft men.

To receive without loathing or repug-

caufe

coftion, or dige^ion, or maruralion of fome metals,
will produce gold*

proper ufe,

£.

will not fall, but remain fufpcndeu in the tube, be.

We conceive, indeed, that a pcrfcft good on-

:

Our play

fourths of an inch.

cal heat.

One to beget, and one receive, the brood. Prhr,
To foften by heat, as in a boiler, or in

thod.

[digitus, Latin.]

The mealure of length containing three

1.

Siutb.

2. The preparation of matter by a chemi-

Appear ?
Sbahtffiarc's Henry V.
Each then has organs to digeji his food

Themfin,

Di'ciT. »./.

If tile inverted tube of mercury be but twenty-

plied to their proper ufe.

To reduce to any plan, fcheme, or me-

On Ills head his dreadful hat he dight.
Which maketh him invifible to fight. Hub, TaU.

fivt digits high, or fomewhat more, the c,u cktilver

the various particles of food may be ap-

Choien friends, with fenfc refined,
Learning d'lgrJicH well.

Hudtbrat,

To put on.

2*

Quantity of food cannot be determined by meafures and weights, or any general LeHian aules \
but muft vary with the vigour or decays of age or
of health, and the ufe or difofe of ^ir or of exercife, with the changes of appetite; and then, by
what every man may firid or fufpeft of the prefcnt
ftrength or wcaknefs of digrfilan.
Temple.
'Every morfel t > a fatislicd hunger, is only a new

To concoiSl in the ftomach, fo as that

a chemical term.
4. To range methodically in the mind ; to
apply 'knowledge by meditation to its

Mi/tait

ySrbutbnot on Alimenti,

dically.

{.

Sbakeffcare's Macbeth.

gcjiktt*

To diflribute into various clafles or repofuories j to range or difpofe meiho

a dunghill

Calling a dim religious light*
Juft lo the proud infulring lafs
Array'd and digbted Hudibras.

Digepio* is a fermentation begun, becaufe there

tin.]

3.

With antick pillar, malTy proof;

Now good digefticit wait on appetite,

tion, becaufe that requires a greater time than the

]f little faults, proceeding on dillemper,
jShall not be wink\d at, howfiiall wc fVretchoure^e,
When capital crimes chew'd, fwallow'd, and d:gepid.

And love the hijjh embowed roof,-

The aft of digefting or conceding food

Baccn,

2.

feems always to

And ftoricd windows richly digbt.

Laws in the i'lgrjl (hew that the Romans ap-

1.

It

the participle paflive

To walk the (ludious cloiftert pale ;

in the ftomach.

And health on both.

to adorn

is dight, as dighttd in Hudtbrat is perhaps improper.
Let my due feet never fail

Digb'stion. n.f. [from <%£/?.]

jirbuthntt en C'-inj.

by

Bnyle,

out their candles*

fignify the paft ;

Bcim's Natural Hificry.

are all the tequifites cf fuch a fermentation ; heat,
air, and motion : but it is not a complete fermenta-

plied thetrfelves to trade*

u>

bellifh ;

mo\t immcoiately downwards tn the guts.

1

told

regulate, Saxon.]
To drcfs; to deck; to bedeck; to em-

I.

which is capable of being digelted or
conceded in the ftomach.

Jeil of the civil law, containing the opioione of the ancwnt lawyers.
1 had a purpufe to make a particular digrji, or
JTCompilcnicnt to the laws of mine own nation.

yo DIGE'ST. V. a. [Jigero, digeftum, La-

,

I'tmf'lf-

diff^--r.

:

which has the power of digelUng, or

mines, we h«v« beln

To Di'oHT. "v. a, [bihran, to prepare, to

jiage ; marriage to a fccond wife after
ihe death of tlie firft : as bigautj, having
<wo wives at once.

Cl'c.ERENT. aJJ. [Jigerens, Latin.] That

vifited

WKuld fuddenly arife a ftcam fu thick, that it would

caufcs or ftrengthens the
I

Di'cAMY. n. f. [JiyafA'.a.] Second mar-

#

Jiggers, tMleven when the (ky fecmed clear, lhn»

^iney.

concodivc power.

Shaktfpiere.

iincr was twice married j

When

ftroBg heat, any bony fabftane«i fo as

is covered with euith.
If I iligg'tl uf

DIG

D I G

matter,

is

by furgeons called digrflion.
Sbjrp*s Surgery.

Dice'stive. adj. [from dJgefi.]
1. Having the power to caule digeflion,

Di'cNiFiED,c<^'. {from dignify.] Invefted
with fome dignity: it is uled chiefly of

~-N»y, Jet me praijc you while 1 have a ftomach.

or to ftrengthen the ftomach.

—No, prny thee, let i: icrvc for tabJc-talk

chilifjftory racnitruum, or a digefii-ve preparation, drawn from fpecies or individuals, whofe

the clergy.
Abbots are (lied dignified clerk;, as having fome

ilomachs peculiarly diflblve lapideous bodies.
Brnuni Vulgar Erroun.

Dicnifica'tion. n.f. [from digitijyj]

A

Then, howfoe'cr thnu fpeak'ft, 'mong other things
Shaieffcarc's Merchant tfVenki.
Theplcafancenf numbers is, that rudenefs ai^d
barbarifm might the better tafte >ni4%iijl the Icffons of civility.
Piacbam.
7, To r-eccive and enjoy.
Cornwal and Albany,
With ay two daughters dowers, digtji the third.

I fliall <//»<y? it.

Sbakrfptarc,

8. [In chirurgery.]

To difpofe a wound

2.

Exaltation.
I grant that where a noble and ancient defcent
and merit meet in any man, it is a double digr.iji-

hale.

DiGi'siER. »./. [from aVf^y?.]

3.

2.

To honour

;

to adorn ; to give luftre to;

lence, or honourable diftinftion*
Such a day.
So fought, fo follow'd, and fo fairly won,

fTifrm. tinAhfciffeu

Neither tie yourlelf always to eat meats of eafy
fuch as veal, Iwectbreads.
liarvry.

A llrong veflel or engine, contrived by Di'ccfR. n.f. [from dig.'] One that
M. I'apin, wiicrein to boil, witx a very
opens the ground with a fpade.
,

To advance; to prefer; to exalt. Ufed
chiefly of the clergy.

nerate matter.

dtgejlure J

yl-liutlmit.

[from dignus and

to improve by fome adventitious excel-

Dice'sturb. »./. Concoftion: not ufed.

People that are bilious and fat, rather thin lean,

Ji^alton'i Angler,

a.

plicauon which difpolies a wound to ge1 drelfcd it with digtjimet,

1.

1/.

facio, Latin.]
1.

This future rule is into method brought. Drydcn.

yoDiGE's r. 1;. n. To generate matter, as Dice'stive. »/. [horn i)igejl.'\ An ap-

are great caters and ill dg.ftn-t.

calion of that ptrfon.

To DI'GNIFY.

Methodifing ; adjufting.

To bufmefs, ripcn'd by digeftive thought.

a wound, and tend to a cure.

Parergcn.

The earth and fun were in that very ftatej the

for fuch a production.

3.

Ayliffe'i

Capable by heat to foften and fubdue.
one aftivc, piercing, and digrftive, by its heat ; the
other palTive, receptive, and ftoted with materials

to generate pus in order to a cure.

He that digefts or difpofes*
2. He that digefts or concodls his food.

dignity in the church*

Came not till now to dignify the times
Since Caeliir's fortune*

&takej[>eare't Henry IV,
Not that we think us worthy fuch a gueft.
But that yo<v worth vrill dignify oiu teal).
Bin y^nfin.
!

No

n I L

D I G
No turbotj dignify my boardi

Deviation.
The digrelff^r. of the fun is not equal ; but, near

2.

J

But gudgcoM, flounders, wliat ray Thames affords.

-

Fofe.

to fome rank above that of a parochial

near the folftltes, more obli<jue and leffer.
Br'j^vn's Vulgar Errcurs.

Judicial dillinftion.

my

Jigmiaries, whofe preferments are
If there be
perhapt not liable to the iccufation of fuperfluily,
Sv/jft,
they may be perfoni of fupetior nnerit.

The dykfs arc fiii'd, and with a roaring found
The rifing rivers float the nether graund.
Drydiv's yirgil.

diprity equal to hin:i.

The king of dykes I than whom no fluice ol
mud
With deeper fable blots the filver flood.

U'jckfr.

Some men have a native dsgn'uy, which will pro-

God,

on thought,

And not a thought but thinks on dignity.

Shak.

St't.

is

an-

»
Ayliffe's Parergon.
general principles : xtfiai

The fciences cincluding fiom dlgnitiri, and prmciples known by thtmfclvcs, receive not fatisfaction from probable reafoas, much Icfs Ciom bare afBrcncn,
fcverations.

Diftinftton ; dilHnguifhing mark.
That temperamental (i/fnc'r-Bi, a.iJconjeflureof
prevalent humours, may be c-jilc^cd from fpots in
our ualls, »c are not avcrfe to concede.

Various their (peed, butcndlcfs is their courfe.

3.

Rather than they would dilamatt the entrails of
their own mother, and cxpofc h:r thereby to be

HmvePt Eng, Tears,

To piLA'PlDATE. v. n.
tin.]

To go to ruin

;

[dilapido,

to fall by decay.

upon the

glebe-woods, or any
other inheritance of the church.

•

tariani, fpreading fo far, cannot be the Ifracliies.

Ayliffe' s Partrgon.
'Ti» thedutyof allchurch-warLins to prevent th?
di/a/iidaiitns of tha chancel and manfion-houfc belonging to the reQor or vicar. Aylijfe's Pcrergon.

Dilatabi'litv. n.f. [(com dilatable ]
The quality of admitting extenfion.
oat
of
the
right
way,
or
common
4. To go
We take notice of the wonJerful dil.itabilily or
;

Bnmvsod.

not

extennveneli of the gull-tn of ferpents : I have
taken two aJult mice out of the ftomach of an adder, whofe neck was ust bigger than my little fin-

Thoufth in fom: part liii fi,rccd to dlgrcfs,
•Whirli

1-

•• irifure I will

r.'

As

be fati.6ed.

fo excuk

By this continual contraSability and dilatability,
by difFcient degrees of heat, the air is kept in a conftant motion.
jiriuitiiot.

Staitjfctre.

1i

<: ii but a Torm of wax,
Digf-t^l^i- from the valour of a man.
Sbatifptarf,

Dicbe'ssiOn. »./ [digrtjia, T,nin.]
I. A paiTage deviating from the main te-

D L a't able. eidj. [from dilate.'] Capable

nour or ccfign of a difcourfe.
The good mtn thought fo mudi nf hii late conceiveil commonwealth, that all other matters

buti/i^rf^cni to him.

Sidney.

Grattful di«r'-T'-''. a-.d fjlve high difpote

W.th con;
Here f\^
Thee, my

I

.

1.

i

>

;

tfieir readers.

V01..L

Dryd<n.

2.

To fpeak largely and copioufly.
It may bi? boln/veful for princes, in matters of
grace, to tranfaci the fame publicity, and by thntj-

Iclves; or their miniftcis ta<^(/w«upiHi it, and impi.ivc their luftre,

by any addition or eloquence of

fp^'ch.

Dila'tor.

Chut.dcr^.

tt./.

[from dilate.]

That

which widens or extends.
The bu-cinat<">rrs, or blowers up of the cheeks,
and the di/atort of the nofc, are too ftrong in choIcrick people.

yiibui/jnot.

Di'latouness.

n.

/

[from dilatory.]

of being dilatory;

llow-

DJ'LATORY. adjt [dilatoire, Fr. dHato.
rius, Latin.]

'i'ardy ;

flow ;

given ta

procrafti nation ; addifted to delay ; flug-

the cxpulfion of it.

gilh ; loitering.

Arialbmtcn yl/imen s.

The aft of extending into greater
fpace : oppofed to conlraHion.
arc fo eafy and lo fublie, that

you ca.)

hardly conceive or diftinguifli them aright. C'tder.

,

Mdifim,
2.

bladders, di/ataile and contra£tible, capable to be
inflated by the adniifiion of air, and to fubfidc at

diljiaiiitr,

:

His licart diUtts and glories in his ftrength.

nefs ; lluggifhnefs.

The iTiotKJijs of the tongue, by cantraftion and

To cont'
;c wim -vntr.- w.m
the be*t a'jtii'>rc ipri
;t,
^
digfrffimi, with which they rccreatt the irin,<! 01

Staktffeare's Oihello.

To Di(. a'te. -v. n.
1. To widen ; to grow wide.

'I'he quality

tin.]

MiltiK.
murt m',k", t' accufc

Whereof by parcels /he had fomcthitij heard.
But not diftindHvely.

of extenfion.
The windpipe divides itfcif into a great number

Dilata'tiow. «._/; \itom dilataiio, La-

He, ftit knew, would intermix

Took once a pliant hour, and found good meaoi
To draw from her a prayer of earned heart,
'i'hat 1 woiilu all my pilgrimage dilate^

I

of branches called bronchia : thefe end in fmall air

were

Fairy S^gent,
I obferving,

go to ruin or decay, by neglefting to repair the fame : arid it likewife extends to his committing, or Aiffering to be committed, any wilful wafte

particular definition, ai

track ; to tranfgrefs ; to deviate :
in ufe>
1 am come to keep my word,

Him hafty to arife.

living, to

in or

To relate at large ; to tell diffufely and
copioully.
But he would not endure that woful theain
For to ddan at large ; but urged fore.
With piercing words, and pitiful implore.

Th-j incumbent's fuffering the chancel,
or any other edifices of his ecclefiaflical

digriji 1no farther) that the TarIt feemeth (to digreji

-

2.

La-

DlLAPlDA'riON.w.y; [dilapidatio, hMin.]

hanily

To wander; to expatiate.

[diiaaie, Latin.]

raviflied, they met half way in a gallant kind?

;

Prior,
The fecond refraSion would fpread the rays one
way as mutli as the firft doth another, and ia dilate
the image in breadth as mucli as the firft doth ii^
'
length.
NttutcH.

To tear ; to rend in pieces.

or chief tenour of an argu-

a

They now di/jte and now contraft their force

Arbuthiiat.

To Dila'niate. t. a.

ofics as a man varies the figni&cation of any term.

Prierm

Yons fibre?.

ment.
into

IfaUer.
Diflus'd, it rifes irt a hightr fphere
Ddtttti its drops, and foftens into air.
1 mark the various fui7 of the winds

Thefe neither feaUns guide, nor ord^r binds

To turn afide out of the road.
2. To depart from the main defign of a

to digrffs

come forth, dilaceratts ana breaks thole

Thegreatelt (eri'ation of pain is by the obftruction of the fmall vatfels, and diUccraiian of the ncr-

1

'\i

MJt.
Through all the air his founding ftrings dihtc
Sorrow, like that which touch'd our hearts of late.

Brown s Vufgjr Errcuis,

To DIGRE'SS. -v. n. [digrefus, Latin.]

room

;

Chiefly I fuughtj without thee can defpife.

Dilacera'tion. n.f. [from dilaceratio,
Latin.] The aft of rending in two.

yul^ar Errsvrs*

In the pnrfuit of an argument there

Miiton,

Dim crrt dileitcd fpirits, ampler heart.
And growing up to godhead which for thee

parts which retrained him before.

DiGNo'riON. /;./. [from dignofco, Latin.]

difcourl'e,

Like Tenetifl^ or Atlas, unremov'd.
Opener of mine eyes,
:

gling to

The jplanet is indig-

/

now your light doth more itfelf rfj/arf.

Satan alarm'd,
Cjjlleaing all his might, di/ated llood.

The infant, at the aceompliflied period, flrug-

nity when it is in any fign.

Briti'r,'i

and indiifiry of man is not

To piLA'CERATE. -v. a. [dilactro, Latin.]
To tear; to rend; to force in

[Among ccclefiafticks ] By a dignity
we underftand that promotion or preferment to which any jurifdiftion

.

l"or

And in my darlcnefs greater doth api-aar. Sf infer,

two.

Aad thefe late d'gn'.rit! hrap'd up to them.

[In aftrology.]

;

opp&fcd to centraii.
But ye thereby much greater glory gate,
Than had ye fort?d with a prince's peer;

fufficient to raife up dykes and rampatts againft it.

For thofe of old,

6.

1

that breaks up the flood-gates of fo great

a deluje, and all the art

Advancement; preferment; high place.

Ni'Msn,
[dilato, Latin.]

.

A mound to hinder inundations,

2.

cure them more regard by a look, than others can
ob;:.tn by the moft imperious commands. CJariJj'ii.
Faflcr than fpring-time fliow'rs comes thought

_ _ .
TomLATE.-v.a.
To extend to fpread out ; to enlarge {

Pope's Duncitid.

Grandeur of mien ; elevation of afpeft.

nexed.
5. Ma.fims ;

m,

an oblong form, eitlier by «rfito<i.'/m of every
or by any other cafual inequality of the tefraainn's.

A channel to receive water.

1.

Angeli ars not any where fpoken fo highly of as
our Lord and Saviour Jefus Chrift, and are not in

A,

Bacon's N.llural Hijlory,

The image of the fun fliould be drawn our into

Dike. «./ [bic, Saxon; dji. Erfe.]

Di'oNiTV. »./ [Manilas, Latin.]
1. Rank of elevation.

3.

:

Di J u D 1 c a't ION. tt.JV[diJudicatie, Latin.]

prieft.

2.

in which the parts are at more diftancc
from each other.
Joy caufeth a chcerfulnefs uii vigour in the
eyes ; (inging, leaping, dancing, and fomotimcs
tears
all thefe are the eflTcifts ot the di/ateiion,
ani
coming forth of the fpirits into the outward par ts.

t)ie cquinoitial interfeftions, it is right and greater

Di'cNiTARY. n.f. [from Jignus, Latin.]

A clergyman advanced to fome dignity,

D I L

The ftate of being extended

;

the rtate

An inferior council, after former tedious fuita
in a higher court,

would be but di/utory, and (b tj
Hayu'arAt
What wound did ever heal but by degrees f
Thou know'ft we work by wit, and not by witchlittle

purpofe.

craft;

Ami wit depends on dilatery time.

Shak. 0:bt!!i,

Thefe cardinals trifle wirh me; I abhor
Thii dilateri floth, and tricks of Rome.
ShaUJftare't Henry VIU.
3

X

Di!ato<j

DIM

DIM

D I L

DillU nlki of feed, which !( dp* 1" Auguft.

Di/atery fortune "pltyi th*J1lt

Wiih the brave, niiblc, honeft, gallant maUi

Murtiner,

To thrtw herlclt away on fools anJ knaves. Ortray. DILU'CID. adj, [dilucidut. Latin.]

A dilatory temper commits innumerable crueltlcf

without defign.

Clear; not opaque,
Clear ; plain ; not obfcure.
To DiL v'c 1 D AT E. iJ. a. [from dilu(idare,

erciie of vifion.
As where the Almighty's lightning brand doei

Latin.] To make clear or plain ; to explain ; to free from obfcurity.

It dimt the dazed eyen, and daunts the fenfes quite.
Spenjer's Fairy Queen.

but explain ini dilucidate,
according to the cuftom of the ancients.

ufe of Venus doth dim the fight ; and yet eunuchs,
which are unable to generate, are neverthelcfs alfo

Bmon's Vulgar Errniri.

Btnn,
dim fighted.
Every one declares agaiuft blindnrfs, and yet who
almoft is not fond of that which dina his fight t

z.

.

aft of loving ; Icindnefs.
So free is Chrift's diltOuir, that the grand con_
dition of our felicity ii our belief.
Boyte's Serafbk Love,

An argument equally conclufive by contrary fuppofitions.
young rhetorician

A

ing the

Di'luent. n.f.

Latin.]
1, To make thin ; to attenuate by the admixture of other parts.

2.
.

ftrongly.

2. Conilantly

Relating to the deluge.

a Pet. i. 10.

applied ;

Suppofc that this diluvUiit lake Ihould rife to the
mountain tops in one place, and not diffufe iifelf
equally into all countries about.

DIM. adj. [bimme, Saxon
1

Pr<ii', xxii. 19.

profecuted

with
2.

not carelefsly ;

not

idly ;

;

not negli-

lf;yi>u inquire

not attentively and dirtgenlly, you

ihall liCvtT hi able to difcern a number of mecha-

nical moti'^ns.
Bacor;.
The ancients have diligenily examinrd in ivh.it

conClis the beauty 'A good poAurct. Dryd. Du/rcf.

Dii,L. It,/. [biliT, Saxon ]

It hath a flen-

der, fibrofe, an-iunl root; the leaves are
like thofe of fennel ; the feeds are oval,

plain, drcaked, and bordered.

taking the dimerjioni of the room.

Sivift,

Dime'nsionless. adj. [from dimeiiJion,'\
Without any definite bulk.
Mihon,

Dimenjionlefs through heav'nty doofs.

Dime'nsive. «i^'. [dimen/us, hit."] That
which marks the boundaries or outlines.
A:1 bodies have their mealure, and their fpace;

But who can draw the foul's dimenjhve lines ?

3.

Daviee.

Dimica'tion. »./.
battle ;

[dtmic-atio, Lat,]

the aft of fighting ;

Roger:.

Not clearly feen } obfcure ; imperfeftly
difcbvered.
Ing cnncrption, how matter misht b«gin toexidby
Loeie.
the power of that eternal firft Being.
Something, as dim to our internal view,
Pope.
Is thus perhaps the caufe of all we do.

4. Obftrufting the aft of vifion ; not lu-

fomewhat dark.
;
Her face right wond*rous fair did feem to be,

minous

Tijt her broad bcauty'sbeamgrejtbrightnefs threw
T&raugh the dim Oude, that all men might it fee.
Sptnjer,

A

conteft.

Dia.

Di M D a't ion. n.f. [dimidiatio, Latin.]
The aft of halving ; divifion into two
I

-

equal parts.

DiH,

TiDIMl'NISH. 'u.a. [dlminue, Lat.]
1. To make lefs by abfciflicn or deftruotion of any part : the oppofite to increafe.
That we call good which js apt to caufe or increafe pleafure, or dimin'fb pain in us.

2.

To impair

Ltcke%

to leilen ; to degrade.
Impioudy they thought
Thee to diminijh, a,.d from thfe wilhiraw
;

Thi- number of thy woi (hlppcrs.

Dullof apprehenfion.

We mijiht be able to aim at fome dim and feem-

gently,

Dryden,

My gentleman was meafuring my walls, and

dy, Welfh ;
dmv, Erfe.]
Not having a quick fight ; not feeing

tural light difcover (piritujl truths.

Di'licentlv. adv. [fromdt'ligext,] With
heed and perfoverance

Burnetii Theory.

The unJerftanding is dim, and cannot by its n.i-

Deut. XIX.

affiduity ; with

It is feldom ufed but

The three dimenfions

He tried
The tomb, and found the ftrait dimenponi wide.

;

clearly.
,
For her true form how can my fpark difcern,
Which, </im by nature, nrt did never clear ? Vavies.

aftivlty arid pcrfeverance ; afliduous.

And tiie judges fhall make diligent inquificion.

plural.

jirtutlnat on Alimcr.ts.

Diiu'vi AN. adj. [from diluvium, Latin.]

DI'LIGENT. adj. [diligent, Latin.]

min ditigetit in his bufinefs, he

tiie

Oppofitc todiluiion is coagulation, or thickening,

which is performed by di/Tipating the moft liquid
parts by heat, or by infinuatlng fome fubftances,
which make the parts of the fluid cohere more

Do thy diligence to come Ihortly unto me.

La?in!]

In they pafi'd

Dilu'tion. ». yi [<//7»/«o, Latin.] The
aft of making any thing thin or weak.

neft.

fljnd before kings.

Idimeiijlo,

are length, breadth, and depth.

That

of moft of the ingicdients of our aliment.
/irhuthmt on ylUmenti,

continuance of endeavour ; unintermitted application ; the contrary to idle-

Conftant in application; perfevering
in endeavour ; afliduous; not idle ; not
negligent ; not lazy.

«,/,

Space contained in any thing ; bulk ;

•

Water is the only diluttr, and the bed diflblvent

either way I'm fped ;

Pope,

Sccit thuu a

He-wttn,

[from dilute."]
n, f,
which makes any thing elfe thin.

If foes they write, if friewls they read, me dead.

fliall

Nnutm.

Dilv'ter.

c 7'm, IT. 9.
Brethren, give diligence to make your calling and

DlidE'NSION.

extent; capacity.

that didance would be greater.

Swift,

Milton,

The principal figure in a pifture is like a king
among bis courtiers, whu^imiallhisaltefidants.

in

If the red and blue colours were more dilute Jn-'
weak, the diftance of the images would be Icfs than
an inch ; and if they were more intcnfc an Ifull,

!

duftry ; alSduity ; conftancy in bufinefs ;

-Thrice chang'd.

he diluted inA weakened by the mixture of any ad-

A dilGcuh or doubtful choice; a vexa-

Di'ligence. n.f. [diligentia, Latin.] In-

Statefpeare't Richard III.

Thus while he fpake, each palTion dimm'dV.s face,

The chamber was dark, left thefe colours (hould

DiLt;'TE. adj. Thin ; attenuated.

tious alternative.

To wajl the dimming of our fliining ftar.

To make weak.
ventitious light.

Spenfer.

All of us have caufe

as (he was

L^le,
ordered by a phyfician, fhe g^'t to bed.
The aliment ought to be thin to dilute, demulcent to temper, or acid to fubdue.
Arbvtbnot on jUimtnii,

Cowley,

1.

When as a ftorm hath d'mm'dhct trufty guide.
Out of her courfe doth wander far aliiay.

[diluo,

Drinking a large dole of diluted tea,

does equally confound.

eleftion fure.

fliip

By conduS of fome ftar, doth make her way.

diluent, as it contains water in it.

To DILU'TE. -v. a,

And both the horns of fate's dilemma wound.

;

[from the adjeftive,]

^rbuihmt en ytlimats.

Hope, whofe weak being ruin'd is
Alike if it fucceed, and if it mifs ;

A dire dilemma

;

There is no real ditucnt but water : every fluid
IS

Baccti's Henry VII.

A ftrong dilemma in a defp'rate cafe

Pr'pe'i Dunciad,

To make lefs bright to obfcure.
that through the ocean wide.
A

2.

That which thins other matter.

A Jilimma, that Morton ufcd to raife benevo-

To aft with infamy, or quit the place.

For thee I dm tbefe eyes, and ftufF this head.
With all fuch reading as was never rcaJ.

power to thin and attenuate

other matter.

lence, fome called his fork, and fome his crotch.

2.

Locke,

planation ; expofition.

DI'LUENT. adj. [diluens, Latin.] Hav-

will award it.

ill

It bath been obferved by the ancients, that much

Dilucida'tion. «./". [from dilucidatie,
Latin.] The aft of making clear ; ex-

applied lo an old fophill to be taught
the art of pleading, and bargained for
a certain reward to be paW, when he
Jhould gain a caufe. The mailer fued
for his reward, and the fcholar endeavoured to elude his claim by a dilemma :
If I gain my caufe, I (hall withhold your
pay, becaufe the judge's award will be
againfl you ; if I lo(e it, I may withhold it, became I Ihall not yet have
gained a caufe.
On the contrary, fays
the mafter, if you gain your caufe, you
Biuft pay me, becaufe you are to pay me
when you gain a caufe ; if you lofe it
you muft pay me, becaufe the judge

Whom good or

li^iht.

I (hall not extenuate,

BiLe'mma. «./ [J.X.[u;«a.]
1.

To cloud ; to darksTi i to hinder frOM
a full perception of light, and free ex-

1

I.

jUiij-in'i SfeHaHr.

Di L e'c T o N »./ [dihaio, Latin. ] The
I

To Dim. V, a, [from the adjeftive.]

3.

Rfillon,

To take any thing from that to which
the contrary to add.
Nothing was dimirijhed from the fafery of the

it belongs :

king by the imprifonnientof the duke. Hayicetrd,
Ye (hall not add unto the word which I command you, neither ihall you diminijh aught froia
it.
Deut. iv. 2,

Te Dimi.'nish.
be impaired.

<v, n.

To grow lefs j to

Wh4t judgment I had, increafcs rather than </;"and thought!, luch as tliey are, cwmc

tninijlia ;

crowding in fo faft upon me, that

my only dllKDrydtn.

culry IS to thufe or toreji-fl.

Crete's ample fields d.>r.inp to our eye;

Bcfoic the B.)real blalb the veii'els &j.
I'rpe's Od^ffty.

Dimi'msh-

DIM
Di M I's I s H I N c L Y

D I tr

adv. [from dimlKtJh.l
Jn a manner tending to vilify, or leffen.
I never ha^i hira ccniure, or lb much as fpeak
.

iim'wijhmgly of any one that was abfent.

ought neither to ordain or admit a clerk, without the
confent of his
own proper bi/hop, and without the letters
dimif-

:

fyDi'mittv. n.f.

oppofed to

:

inaea,e.

i dirciled a Crowie of fine

diminuihnf fo as to aft upon ail their pans, to their
Tery centrei, wi;h the fame fotce, afid according

To us invifitip, or dimly feen.

I •

Unfpeukable

dtm'iituthn.

Gladly to thee
Heroick laurel'd Eugene yields the prime;
Mor thinks it diminution to bcrank'd
In military honour next.
Philitis.

4. Deprivation

of dignity ; injury of re-

putation.
falvation, and I Ihall not regard the wcrlcj'j opi-

nion or diminuticn- of me.

They might

raife the

it

own.

reputation ot another,

D'IMPLE. «. / [dint, a hole j dintle, a
little hole ;

Dimi'notive. adj.

The poor wren,
The mod dimtnuli-jt t( biids, will fight.
Sbaitffearc'i Macbeth.
It is the intereft of mankind, in order to the ad-

of lovers, we

fliould,

in a little

tlet in miniature.

Mdifin.

They know how weak and aukward many of
thofe little <//mwu(it;! difcourfcs arc.

ffalts.

DiMrNUTivE. n./. [from the adjeftive.]

A

word formed to exprefs littlenefs
as /fl//7/tt/, in Latin, a.litlIi;Jione; matfinette, in French, a littU bouft ; manni-

1.

ken, in Engli(h, a littlt man.
He afterwards proving a dainty and effeminate
youth, was commonly called, by the diminutive of
bis name, Petcrkin or Pcrkin. Bacin'i Heiu VII.
Sim, v/hile but Sim, in good repute did live
;

Was then a knave, but in diminutive.
2.

In private ftate, by friends is feen.

Cott-.n.

A fmall thing

:
a ftnfe not now in ufe.
Follow his chariot ; monfter-like, be (hewn
For poor'rt diminuii-uet, for doits
Siattcfptare.
!

Dimi'nutively.

[from diminuti-ve.]
In a diminutive manner.
Dimi'nutiveness. a./ {from diminuad'v.

tive.]

Smallnefs; littlenefs; pettynefs ; want of bulk ; want of dignity.
Di'mish. adj. [from dim.]
Somewhat

dim ; fomewhat obfcure.
For nature, always in the right,
T» your ikcays adapu my fight,

The wild waves mafter'd him,and fuck'd him in,
And fmiling cii\ti di$npled on the main. Vrydcn.
Eternal fmilcs his emptinefs betray,

M the way. Pipe.

Di'mpled. adj. [fiomdimfle.]

Set with

dimples.

On each fide her
Stood pretty dimpled boys like fmiling Cupids.
Shaiifpeare.

Di'mply. adj. [from dimple.]

Full of

dimples ; finking in little inequalities.
As the fmooth furface of the dimply flood
The filver-llipper'd virgin lightly trod.
ff^arton's Ifti.

DIN. n.f. [byn, a noifc; bynan, to make
a noifc. Sax. dyna, to thunder, Iflandick.]
A loud noife ; a violent and continued found.
And all the way he roared as he went.
That all the foreft with aftoniflimcnt
Thereof did tremble ; and the beads therein
Fled fad away from tliat fo dreadful din.
Jluiberd'i TiiU.

O, 'twas a din to fright a monder's ear

To make an earthqualte
Of a whole herd of lions.

:

;

fure, it was the roar

Shahfpeare'i TempeJI.

While the cock with lively <//«
Scatters the rear of darkncfs thin

Milton.

Now n ght over heav'n

}

Inducing darkncfs, grateful truce impos'd,
Stoift,

Some of late have concluded, from fpots in the
fun, which appear and dilappcar again, that, faefides the revolution it malceth with its orbs, it

And filcncc, oa the odiow dm o[ war.

_

£r,ivn's P^ulgar Errourt,

^

A fpherical figure is mod commodious for dine/iVfl/ motion, or revolution

To

DING.

pret.

upon its own ax's. Ray.
v. a. \dnngea,

dung,

Dutch.

To da(h with violence.
To imprefs with force.
To Ding. 1/. «. To binder; to bounc
1.

2.

to huff.

;

A low word.

He hurts and dingt, becaufe we will not fpenl
the little we haVe left, to get him the title of lorj
Strut.

Arbulhnot.

DiNC-DONG. n.f. A word by which the"
found of bells is imitated.
Let us all ring fancy's knell;
Ding, dong bell.
Shaiefpeare.

Di'ngle. n.f. [from ben, or bin, a hollow. Sax.]

A hollow between hills

j

s

dale.
I know each lane, and every alley green.
Dingle, or budiy dcll of this wild wood
j

And every bolky bourn from fide to fide,

My daily walks and ancientneighbourhood. Mile,
Di'ning-room. n.f. [dine and reom.']
The principal apartment of the houfe ;
the room where entertainments are
made.
He went out from the dining-room befdre he hid
fallen into errour by the intempeiance of his meat,
or die delugeofdrink. Taylor't Rule
of Living Hoh.

Di'n n e r

.

n.f. [diner,

French.] The chief

meal
the meal eaten about the middle
of the day.
Let me not day a jot for dinner t
;

j

And to the dack, or the barn-door.
Stoutly ftruti his dame before.

'Tis true, but let it not be known.

My eyes are fnmewhat dimip grown

round j vertiginous.

Prior.

ties.

As fliaUow dreams run dimpling

Whirling

[Jir^Tix®-.]

hath alfo idinetical motion, and rolls upon its own

fink in fmall cavities, or little inequali-

time, fee mankind epitomized, and die whole fpe-

Dry den' i l^irgit.

poles.

To Di'mple. v. n. [from the noun.] To

eTiminutive race

root in gen'rous wine,

Dine'tical. adj.

j

Glanvif/e'i Sceff!.

the prcfent.
South.
If the ladies fhould once take a liking to fuch a

Bv)il this reftoiing

In her forehead's fair half-round,

vance of knowledge, to be fcnfible they have jet
attained it but in poor and diminutive meafure.

The light of man'sunderftandingis but a (hurt,
diminutive, contrailcd light, and looks not beyond

to

And fct befide the door the lickly dock to dine.

Criiu,

He in tlie dimfie of her chin,

;

feed.

The dimple of the upper lip is the common meaLove fits in open triumpli crown'd

Prior.

To give a dinner to

A fmall cavity or

Skinner.]

fure of them all.

Her young ones in her neft, againft the owl.

Are, that they did their work and din'd.

To Dike. -v. a.

by a carelefs pronunciation

depreffion in the cheek, chin, or other
part.

[dimiauti'vus, Lat.j

Myielf, he, and my fider.

To-day did dine together.
Shaiefpeare.
He would dine <vith him the next day. Clarend,
Thus,ot your heroes and brave boys.
With whom old Homer makes fuch nolle,

Ihe greated anions I can find.

Aniwerable to this dimnefi of their perception,
was the whole fj ftem and body of their religion.

Decay of Piety

narrow ; contradled.

Perhaps lomc merchant hath invited him,

And from the mart he's f)mewhere.gone to dinners
Good fider, let us dine, and never fret.
Shuieff.

Dulnefs of fight.
Want of apprehenfion ; ftupidity.

dimple.

little ;

Sxvif},

To DINE. -v. «. [diner, Fr.] To eat the
chief meal about the middle of the day.

Di'mness. n.f. [horn dim.]

The contradion of
5. [In architefture.]
the diameter of a colu-nn, as it afcends.
Small J

What ihall we do, if his majefly puts out a
proclamation commanding usto take Wood's half,
pence ?
This hath been often dinned in my ears.

Dryden.

King CbarUs.

though they are a i^iminu:ion to his. Adi'if Sficfl.

to harafs with cla-

noife.
Milton.

Oriev'd they muft now no longer man attend
j
The beams about their temples rfiw/y Ihone ;
One would have thought the crime bad been their

1.

;

To bait thee for his bread, and rfmyour ears

Not brig'uly ; not luroinoufly.

Boyle' I Spring of the jiir.
I faw th'angelick guards from ejrth afcend,

2.

Make me wife by thy truth, for my own foul's

who Ctt'ft above thefe heav'ns,

the receiver with .'umcs j but by degrees
burnt more and more dimly.

tion.

[from the noun,]

Rather live

filled

of dignity ; degrada-

a.

With hungry ciies.
Ottvay's yemce Prrjr-vri.
2. To imprefs with violent and continued

In the beginning of our pumping the air, the
match appeared well lighted, though it had almoft

Locks.

lofs

!

<v.

To ftun with noife
mour.

not with a

In ^hefe thy lowed worKS.
2.

Ntnvttn.
Finite an-^ infinite feejh to be looked upon as the
modes of qjantity, and to be atrributed primarily
to thofe things which arc capable of increj|\: or

3 . Difcredit ;

ff^fmatt.

Di'mly. a/i;. [from dim.]

tliroqgh the va!k b-j^ies of the planets without any

to the fame laws, as if the part upon which it acts
were not furroanded with Che body of the planet.

To Din.
1.

dimitty.

Not with a quick fight ;
clear perception.

The g.-avitating power of the fii;> is tranfmitted

Some independent ideas, of no alliance to one
another, are, by education, cuftom, and the condant A'» of their party, fo coupled in their minds,
that they always appear there together.
Locke,

Ayliffe 'i Parer^on.

A fine kind of fuftian,

or doth of cotton.

.

The ftate of growing lefs

Thro' dreams of fmoke and adverfe fire he rides.
While every Ihot is ievell'd at his fides.
Smith.

A. b:ihop of another diocefs

Diminu'tion. n..'. [diminutio, Lat.]
oppofed to
I. The an of maJung lefs

2.

How, while the troutled elements around,
Earth, water, air, the dunning din refiund.

.

junfdidlion.

Lxlie.

tiuginentatian.
1 he one is not capable of any dimiitatim or auginentation ac all by men ; the other apt to admit
Hooker.
both.

D I N

Til'vAilOV.Y.tdj. [Jimifm-ius.-Lnt.'] That
by which a man is difraifled to another

Go, get it ready.

'

Afilteih

Shaktjpeare': King Lear.
Before dinner and fuppcr,as often as itis conve^
nient, «r can be had, let the public prayers of the

3X3

church.

D

I

Di'nner-tim!!. »./ \dinner and time.'\

The time of dining.
At Jiniur-timr,
Sbakrfp{*r{.

DIO'PTRJCAL. 7»./. [dVVlou«..1 AfDIO'PTRICK. i fording a medium for

Then from the mint wilks forth the man of

the fight ; affifting the fight in the view

S pray you, have in mind where wc muft meet.

rhyme,

of diltant objefts.

Happy to catch me juft at d'mur-iime,

Pipe.

4.

To be inrulnerable in thefc bright arms,

fefs'd ?

.

Dipcbiik is fo named of his diving yid littlcnefs.
Carevs.

Dipe'tal&us. adj. [Ji{ and oiVaXsr. ]
A part of opticks,.
Having two flower leaves.

treating of the different refraflions of
the light pafling through dirterent mediums J as the air, water, glaffes. &c.

the cavity

;

Di'pcHicK. fi. /. [from dip and chick-l
The name of a bird;

glafs,

Dto'pTRiCKS. n. /.

Though temper'd heav'niy ; for that mortal dirt,
Save hi who reigns above, none can relift. Afiluii,

remaining after a violent prcflurc.
He cmbi ic'd her naked body o'er

Di'pHTHONG.w./ [JipSo>y®-.] A coalition of two vowels to

Dryden.

3.

Ham's.

We fee how many difputes the fimple and am-

DiORTHo'siS. n./. [JioeSua-i;, of JiojSow,
to make llraight.] A cliirurgical opera-

biguous nature of vowels created among grammarians, and how it has begot the miftake concem-

tion,

Violence; force; power.
Shaitjftare' i Ju/lus Cafar.

Wc are to wreft the whole Spanilh monarchy out
•f thehinds ofthe enemy ; and, in order to it, to
wirlc oar way into the heart of his eountry by dint
Addijcrt.
of arms.
The dcwiaptbull now chafes along the plain.
While burning love ferments in cv'ry vein ;
His wcll-arm'd front againfl his rival aims.

To DIP.

[bippan, Saxon ; docpen,

is gone.

of the (kull.

Diplo'ma. ri.f.

;

together.

Di'ppER. n./. [horn dip.] One that dips

\dinumtratk,
Lat.l The aft of nmnbering out fingly.
biCiocESAN. n. f. [from dioceJi.\
fliop, as he ftands related to his own
clergy or flock.
As a dioeefan you arc like to outdo yourfelf In all
other capacitiei, and exemplify every word of tiiis
South.
(iifcourfc.
1 have heard it has been advifed by a diceefan to
(hould
read
fome
of
his inferior clergy, that they
the mod celebrated fermons printed by others.

The kindred arts (hall in their praife confpirc.
One dip the pencil, and one ftring the lyre. Pope,
Now, on fancy's cafy wing convey'd,
The king defcended to th' Elyfian Hiadcj
There in a duflcy vale, whe.e Lethe tolls.
Pope's Dune.
Old Bavlus fits to dip poetic fouls.
So filhcs, rifing from the main.

Can foar withmoiften'd wings on high j

To moiften

Greek

word, co.Tipounded of J.m. and

ox>i5-k.]

;

to wet.

And thuugh not mortal, yet a cold fliudd'rlng
dew
Dips me all o'er, as when the wratli of Jove
Spciks thunder.
Millir..

To be engaged in any affair.

3.

When men arc once dipt, what with the cncou
.

The circuit of every bifhop's jurifdic-

•

rageraents of fenfe, cullom, facility, and ihame of
departing fromwh.it they have given thcmf-lves up
L'EJirange.
to, thiy goon till they aie nifled.
In Richard's time, I doubt, he was a llltli: it [i
in the rebellion of the commons.

Dryden's FabLs,

tion ; for tliis realm has two divifions, 4. To engage as a pledge generally ufed
for the firil mortgage.
one into Ihires or counties, in refpeft of
Be careful ftiU of the main chance, my fon
temporal policy ; another into diecefes,
:

;

refpeft of jurifdidion ecclefialtical.
Caivell
None ought to be admitted by any biOiop, but

Put out the principal in trnfty hands.
Live on the ufe, and never dip thy lands.

ill

fuch as have dwelt and remained io his i/io.v/i a
JVhiigifi.
eonveoient time.
He (hould regard the bllhop of Rome as the
10 inders of Jcrley »nd GuernJey do him of Con^ ft^ace in NJrmaady; that is, nothing at all, fmce
fwear uotu our
by ckat fivbcb bi;^op'l lefuUl

U

Dryden's Perfiui.

We

have fnakct in our cups, and in our diOics ;

and whoever dips too deep wiU find death in the
2.

To enter; to pierce.

f,

[Latin,

from h\a.o:,

to

A ferpent, whofe bite produces

the fenfation of unquenchable thirft.
Scorpion, and alp, anU amphilbcena dire,
Ceraftes horn'd, hydrus, and ellops drear,

And dipfas,

Milton.

Di'pTOTE.

A noun con-

n.f, [MiJJa.]
filling of two calcs only.

Clark.

Di'pTYCH. n.f. [rt'/^/yf/6a,Lat. two leaves

A

£Dlded together,]
regifler of bilhops
and martyrs.
The commemoration of faints was made out of
the diptyihs of the church, as appears by multitudes of places in St. Auflin.
StillingJIect,

DIRE. adj. [dints, Lat.] Dreadful
mal ; iDOurnTul ; horrible ;

;

dif-

terrible

;

evil in a gre.it degree.

Women

fi

To do(r their dire diflrefl'es.

jht,

Shukefp. Maehitb.

In meats, and drinks, which on the earth

To fink; to immerge.
pot.

ti.

thirft.]

More by intemperance die

To Dip. v. n.
t.

netick needle, fo that, befides its polarity or verticity, which is its direftion
of altitude, or height above the horizon, when duly poifed about an horizontal axis, it will always point to a
determined degree of altitude, or elevation above the horizon, in this or that
place refpe£lively.

Di'psAS.

The moifture dried, they link again.
Siui/t.
And dip their wings again to lly.

Taller.

a

;

fhews a particular property of the mag-

Drydeii'i Failei.

2.

A dcvife which

Dipping Needle, n. f.

Drydtn's jSneid.
He turn'd a tyrant in his latter days.
And from the bright meridian where he flood,
Dffcending, dipp'd his hands in lovers' blood.

A

{eliactfis

in the water.

Invok'd the dead, and then difmifs'dthe crowd.

n. f.

A letter or

be tvritten on waxed tables, and folded

Which thrice he fprinkled round, and thrice aloud

Fairy S^ttii.
frail.
Leave, leave, fair bride, your folitary bone,
No more ihall you return to it alone ;
1; nu feth fadncA j, and your body's print,
Llk': tja grave, theyielding down doihdint. Donne.
Dcep-JiK»frf wrinkLs on her cheeks Shi draws
Sunk are her eyes, and toothlefs aie her jaws.
Dryden*: ^.neid.

[Jiw>ii7x«.]

writing conferring fome privilege ; fo
called, becaufe they ufed formerly to

Ayliffe'i Parergon.

1 he iron wall* to ward tlieir blows were weak an^

Pope.

Di'pLOE. rt.f. The inner plate or lamina

Old Corineus compafs'd thrice the crew.
And dipp'd an olive-branch in holy dew.

Vccf-diitlcd furrowi in the batter'd mail

Holder's Eitn.er.ti of Speech,

Make a diphthong of the fecond eta and iita, in-

made thrice, accjrding to the canon.

With greedy force each other both afTail,

and not diphthongs, as is intended to be iig-

ftead of their being two fyllables, and theobje^ioa

to put into any liquor.
The perfon to be baptized may be dipped in water; an- fuch anlmmerfion or dipping ought to be

And ttfike fo fiercely, that they do inr.prcfj

n. /.

pret. dipped; particip. dip-

dipt,

To immerge

1

lent imprefCon.

DI'OCESS.

bles,

nified by that word.

Dutch.]

To Dint. 11. a. [from the noun.] To
mark with a cavity by a blow, or vio-

Dinumera'tion.

-v. a.

ped, or

Gay.

And by the dmi of v/ar his miftrefs claims.

mg diphthongs : all that arc properly fo are fylla-

by which crooked or diftorted

members are reftored to their primitive
Harris.
and regular Ihape.

Now you weep ; and, 1 perceive, you feel
Tlie dint of pity.

form one found ;

as, vain, leaf, Cte/ar.

;

And, ftiaininghard the liitue.'was afraid
His hands had made a diat, and hurt the maid.

to chufe

Wouldft thou prefer lilm to forac man ? Snppofe
1 dipp'd among the wor(V, and Staius chofe }
Dryden I Perjius,

and venture at the proportion of her
hills by their (hadows.
More't Antidote againji Atheifm.

Sptitjer^

;

With what ill thoughts of Jove art thou pof-

Byle.

Neither vainly hope

Pope.

To take that which comes firft
by chance.

View the afperities of the moon through a diopIrick

£nd more upon dipping in

the fii ft volume.

__^

^

*

Much daunted with that </>>/, her fenfewas daz'd;
Yn, Juaaiia,; rage, hcifelf fliegathcr'd round.

The mark made by a blow

When 1 chink all tiie repetitions are ({ruck out
in a copy, I fometimes

glades, he had not been able to fee the fun fpotted.

A blow; a ftroke.

2.

To

Being excellently well fumifhed with dioffrkal

DINT. n.f. [bynr, ^Saxon.]

U

His bloody bc»!l witli his torn iivcr dyed.
GramvilUn
enter (lightly into any thing.
3,

Seulb.

frcim his ord'nati.m.

I

The vuUuit dipping in Prometheui* fid(,

king, tSofe ifles were annexed t« the dattji •.'
RaSeigh't EJftyi.
Winchefler.
St. Paul looks upon Titos as advanced to the
dignity of a prince, ruler of the church, and intruflcd with a large </iei:r/>, containing many particular cities, under the immediate government of
their rel'peaive elders, and thofe deriving authority

church, or feme part» of them, be faid publicly io
leylw.
the family.
The jolly crew, unmindful c.f thepift,
The quarry ihare, tlitJr plenteous ^'mntr hafte.
Dryicn'i MniiiU

1.

D

D I P

O

I,' Eflrange.

(hall

bring
Difeafcs dire j of which a monftrous crew
Before thee (hall appear.
MUton.

Hydras, and gor^oos, and chimaeras dire.
Miller,

Or

D IR

D I R

Or w!i»t thccrofs tiire-laoWing pUnet Cmites,
Of liurcful worm with ca kcr'd v»nom bites.
ATittm.
Dire was the tofliDg, deep the groans, defpair
Tended the (ick.
Miiitn.

a good end, is
t^e only principle tliat diftinguilhes charity.

Dire'ctness.

Smafridge.

Straig.itnefs ;

No particle of matter, nor any combination ot"
particles, that is, no body, can either
move of it-

ot of iti'elf alter the dircilLn of its

fclf,

Order; command; prefcription.

3.

lines, or meet in the iocerfcflion of crofi lines.

I

[In aftronomy.] Appearing to an eye
on earth to move progreffively through
the zodiac ; not retrograde.

Not collateral, as the grandfon fucceeds
his grandfire in zdirei^ line.
Apparenily tending to fome end, aj in
a ftraight line.

is

qu'flL'"-

0.

Open

He no where, that I know,

What Oiiiediream cheat in fouth.fea year?

...
An inurument

fayj it in Jirca

Dire'ctory. n.f. [from direaor.] Tha
book which the fadious preachers pub-

lidied in

tin.]
1.

To aim or drive in a ftraight line.
'I'wo eagles from a mountain's
height,
J<'«'»."minind, Jirta their rapid flight. Pobt.

2.

From" cottage ftrcaming, or from airy hill.

Directly, adv. [from <A«<S.]

%To point againft

fens, the farther it removes from

Wifdom is profitable to dircR.

his fteps.

Ecclui. x'. 10.'

To prefcribe certain meafure ; to mark
out a certain courfe.
Hcdir^liit it under the whole heavens,
tad hii
ligLtoing unCJ the ends of Itie earth.
_,

i-

yt-i xx/vi\ 3.

,

10 order;

to command : ko dina \% a
fofter term than to command.

[dircaor, Latin.]
I. One that direfts; one that
prefcribes.

An inftrument that Icrvcs to guide any

mannal operation.

.'"'='''

""" »

the ptoduft of
"frcafo.., butts,
iff'r"r'r'^"
eft.as of ch,n:e .
_,
uf a m,nd flaau.g
•t a 1 .dventuic, wjujout
cHuice, and withou' di
"''

'

V' ;rii
ly

lijth nithertoteen fo
impious, as plain.
.mJ dirtUiy to condemn prayer.

linker.

By aliening the fcripture 1

1 be the canon of
our
^ave onavuidably creafd to myfelf fncmiei in the papift dinaiy, becaufe they
have kept

faith,

_.
\

I

.

.

_

'

ShakrI'pcare.

The voice of God himfelf fpcajcs in the heart

of men, whether they underfland it or

no; and by

fetict intimations gives the finncr
a forctafte of
thii direful cup, which he is iike to
drink more
deeply ot hereafter.
Htutl.
i curs'd the direful author of ray
woes
'Twas told again, and thence my ruin rofc.

.

DiRE'cTiON. n./. [<//r/^.„, Latin.]
I. Aim at a certain poi u.
.

That makes ut wretched by tlje death of thee.

being clean without the church, deny
and utterly rejeci, the very principles
01

bymiicon'truflion.

Vuiry Queen.

FaiPy i^,f,„.
„ ''"'«'"•
Direful h.ip betide that hated wretch

Infi.jeu,

embrace erroneouflv
^y^^J.

...

_

But yet at laft, whereas the direful (ieiid
She faw not ftir, oft' (baking vain alf.ijjht.
She Higher drew, and fa.v that jovous end
;
Then Cod (lie pray'd, and thank'd her faithful

Immediately ; apparently ; without circumlocution ; without any long train of
confequence.

t.hr.!lianity, which heieticks

and /«//; as, dreadful, or
of dread; joyful, or full of joy. 1

^
difraal.
Point of fpear it never picrcen would,
Ne dint of direful (word divide the fubii ince could.

U

r?.rf.%,

other words

Dire ; dreadful ;

V/ood-ward,
the icfraflrd ray be returned
dircaiy back lu
the point of incidence, it ftall be
refiaiici by the
incident ray.
Ncioton-, Oj^ticki.

2,

all

fubllantive
full

underneath.

,

Dire'cter. n.f.
*.

proper fourc^.

Dryden'i'Dufrifmy.

All that isia a min's po*er, is
to mind whji
the Ideas are that take their turn
» n his ondcrBandm^' ; orelle torf/nfland fjrt, and call
in fuch
ms bcdrfires.
r,,i.

4.

fured as not analogical ;

compounded with full confifting of a

fhcrewaa no other place afligned to any of
thii.
matter, than that whercunto its own
gravity bore
it, which was only dirtiHy
downwards, whereby it
obtained that place in the globe
which was iult

regulate; to adjuft.

It is not in man that walketh to dir,n

its

book of

Oxford Rrafins agai„Ji the Co-v.

Di'REFut. adj. [This word is frequent
among the poets, but 4ias been cen-

more

Dryden't JEnciH.

,.

,

common prayer.

</;/-tfl/y it \i oppoied to them,
the mure it is
cnliglitened ; becaufe ihc light languiftcs
and lef-

as a mark.
The fpear flew hifling thro' the middle fpacc.

_
To

cannot confcnt to the takirg away of the

tbomCm.

In a ftraight line; reailineally.
The more a body is nearer to the eyes, and
the

I.

And pierc'd hjs throat, JirtSlid at his f:.ce.
3.

,

,..

the rebellion for the direiftion

of their feft in afls of worftiip.
As to the ordinance concerning the dircaory, we

Nor viCtea by one direame ray.

TiDiRE'cT. v. a. {MrigOydinaum.Li.

by which the

'i he manner of opening
wiih a knife, is by (lidding It on a dir/aor, the groove of which
prev. nts
its being mifguiJed.
Sharfs Surgiry.

Informing ; fliewing the way.

2.

Peje.

.

in furgery,

hand is guided in its operation.

dirctl-

Bramhall again/} HoHa.
On the direaive powers of the fori.«.-r, and the
regularity of the latter, whereby it is
capable of
direaion, depends the generation of all
bodies.

Bacon,

Dryde..

a trading company.

command doth principally refide, whether in
the will or the underftanding. The true
refolution
IS, that the c'iriaivc command
for counfel is in thi^
underftanding; and the applicative command,
or
empire, tor putting in execution of what is

•

One appointed to tranfaft fhe afftirs of

ed, is in the will.

_, .
7. Plain ; exprefs.

am her direaor and her guide in fpiritual af.

I

'""•

this

There be, that are in nature faithful and Cncere,
and plain and iliriii, not crafty and involved.

Hooter.

One who is confulted in cafes of confcience.

Having the power of direftion.

A

'Lockt.
;

.

_

Hookrr.
power of command there is withaut all quel_
Uon, though there be fome doubt
In what faculty

not ambiguoas.

in
their dealings of weight, as contraSs,
tefta-

all

rule unto goodne.'s of operation.

dirta to, what flidc» bv, the

Sivifl.

"'""•

A law therefore, generally taken, is a diriOvvt

he will fee what is pertinent, what

;

per methods of proceeding.
They arc glad to ufe counfellors and
direaors

/^««j.

Directive. ».y: [from (//rc^?.]

He that does this, will be able to caft off all that

Sioi/u

an ordinance.

Dinifon to a noble mind.

4.
1.

A rule

An inftruftor; one who ftiews the pro-

3.

All nature is but art unknown to thee
All chance, direaion which thou, canft not fee.

Such was as then the ftate of the king, as it
<Kii no time by ilirta means to fcek her. And fuch
WIS the ftate of his captivated will, as he would
delay no time of feekin^ her.
Sirlney.

coherent; what

Sidr.ey.

In all affairs thou loie dinaor.

2.

4. Regularity; adjuftment.

DiyJin's FaUes.

15 fupetfluous :

Himlelf ftuod direaor over them, with
noddine
or ftampmg, (hewing he did like or
midike thofe
things he did not underftand.

Common forms were not deflgn'd

King Churla.
Ctaenl dirtffims forfcholafticdifputcrs, is, never to difputc upon me:e trifles.

-

n-.t

Locke

a

general managemt-nt of a defign
or work,
;

.

Numt.'xxl, 18.
Men's paflions and God'j d'triakn feldom agree.

Beutlev^

•

One that has authority over others
;
fuperintendent
one that has the

Skakeff. M.icb'eth.

rf£P;M of the law-giver.

Two (jeomantick liijurcs were Jifplay'd

5.

put myfelf to thy dirtaUn.

The nobles of the people digged it, bv the di-

Brntley.

4.

1.

Hooker,

Ev'n now

_

IREC TOR. n.f. [direaor, Latin.]

of taking heed how ihf read the apocrvplia
as
;
alfo by the heip of other learned men's
jud-ments,
ddivetcd in like cafe, we may uke direaion.

they either advance towards one another in direli

Above his head, i warrior and a maid.
One v'xn dlrcS, wA one when retrograde.

D,

From the counfel that St. Jerome giveth Lata,

Straight ; not crcx>ked.
2. Not oblique.
The ihip.-- would move in one and the fame furface; and confequenrlj muftr.etd; encounter when
1.

J.

m ition.
Cheyne,

''^''

».

They argued from celcftial caufes only, the
conftant vicinny of the fun, and
the direa„fs of his
rays; never lufpefling that the
body of the earth
had fo gieat an efficiency in the
changes of the air.

pulfe.

!

yireaus. Latin.]

/.
[from dmSf.-]
tendency to any point ;
the neareft way.

Motion imprefled by a certain im-

2.

Difcord itire dtfi of the flaughtet'd pow'r,
Small a: her birth, butnfin^evrj hour
j
While fcaice the Ikies hpr horrid head can boui]d,
She ftallts on earth, and ihakcs the world around.

DIRE'CT. a</J.

DI R

The dhrXot of gnod works to

the Icripiure from ua what they couid.

I}ryd.Prt/,ioRf/igit,Laici.
Hit work d:rcafy tends to raile fcntiments
of
honour and virtue in his readers.

Mdijhn'i Frcfto/dir.

No reafon can be afligned, why it is beft for the
world that Gjd Almighry hath abfolutc
power,
which doth not dircaiy prove that no mortal man
flwuld have the like.
Hwi/i.

Achilles' wrath, to Greeks the direful

(Jxnz'

Ofwoesunnumber'd, heavenly goddefs! fin^. Pope.

Di'rekess.

«,

/ [from <//>f.]

Difmal-

nefs ; horror ; hideoulnefs.
Direticfi, familiar to

Cannot once (iart me.

my

(1

lught'rous thoughts,

Sbnkef/.-eare't M.ni.tb.

Dire'ption. a./. [dinj>tio, Latin.] The
aft oi plundering.

DiRCE.

DIS

D 1 S

D I R

DiKCt' [This « not a contraftion of the Di'iiTtKZts. «./ [from </;>/)'.]
Latin Jirigi, in the popilh

hymn, Di-

rigt grejfus meus, as I'ome pretend ; but
from the Teutonic dyrke, laudare, to

Whence it is poffible

praife and extol.

""

With mirth in funeral, and with dirp in mar-

3.

Such employments aie the difea&s of l.iboiir,
and the nift of time, which it contrafls not by
lying ftill, but by JiVry employment.

Sbeitjfetrt^
own country.
Your days I will alarm, I'll haunt your nightJ,
And worfe than age difaUt yourJeiights. Drydau
5. To exclude, as waptipg proper qualifi-

Mean ; bafe ; defplcable.

You from above (hall hear each day
One (/irjfdifpatch'd unto your clay;
Thefe your own anthems Ihall become,

tices.

common people towardi tyrants, was obBaccfi-

To foul

1

ufed to dirty their fingers with pen, ink, and coun-

Harm.

Todifgrace; to fcandalizc.

1.

dagger ufed in the Highlands of Scot-

2.

land.

Dis.

In vain thy hungry mountaineers

liikell.

;

untie ;

flicks to the clothes or body.

Denham.

2.

Meannefs;

'To

Dirt. i/. a. [from the noun.] To
to
foul ; toi bemire ; to make filthy

n. /.

Forms

moulded by children of clay, in imitaThou fetteft thy heart upon that which has newly left off making of dirt- fits, and is but preparing
Suckling.
itfelffora grcen-ficknefs.

Di'rtily. a/t). [from dirty-l
I.

Nattily; foully;

filthily.

Meanly ; fordidly

;

IhamefuUy.

HvAer.

Ti DisACKNo'wLEDCE. <!/.«. [dis and
acknouuicdge.] Not to acknowledge.
The manner of denying Chrift's deity here proS^uth*

io ieny ini difackncfzvlsdge It.

Confcience, by a long negi^ft of, and dtfacguainiancc with itfelf, contracts an inveterate rult

The ability of mankind does not lie in the imLxkt.

potency or dij'abililies of brutes.

South,

or foil.

Want of proper qualifications for any DisaDva'ntage .n.f. [dis and advantage.]

2.

purpofe ; legal impediment.
A fuit is commenced in a temporal court for an
inheritance ; and the defendant pleads, in difability,
yJyliff''' Pjrirgen.
that the plaintiff is a baftard.
This difadvantage which the diifentcrs atprcfent
lie under, of a d'dMlity to receive church preferments, will be eafily remedied by the repeal of the
^

[dis ind ac'

quaintance.] Difufe of familiarity.

Glatniillc.

confcious of its difaiility.

1.

Disa'ble. f. a.

2.

;

to

weaken ;

to

is a perpetual

excrcife, a wrcft -

j4ddifin's Frerbilder,

in its proper light.

Thofe

difqualify for any aft.
The invafun and rebellion did not only difeili
this king to be a conqueror, but deprived him both
Daviu's Inland.
of his kingdom and life.
Nor fo is overcome
Satan, whofc fall from heaven, a deadlier bruife
Dijablid not to give thee thy death's wound.

ling aad warfare, for which fenfual pleafure dijal/lcs

Diminution of any thing defirable, as
credit, fame, honour.
Chaucer in many things rcfemblcd Ovid, and
that with no difadvantage on the fide of the modern
Drydin.
author.
The moft fliining merit goes down to pofterity
placed
by
writcrj
with difadvantage, when it is not

[dis and able.]

To deprive of force

Lofs ; injury to intereil : as, he fold to
difad-jantagc.

Sviift.

left.

7*0

A Chriftian'j life
Dnite.

To deftroy tlie force of habit by

hibited, was, by words and oral expreffions verbally

Milm.

Such gold as that wherewithal
Chimiques from each mineral

Are diti>{y and defpcratdy gull'd,

difufe or contrary praftice.

his knowledge, and the exercifcd underftanding is

I .

tion of paftry.

Di;\aitations have happened in fnme places more
than in others, according to the accoramndation or
difa.ccmmodatim of them to fuch calamities.
Hale's Origin cf Mankind.
To Disaccu'stom. 'V. a. [dis and accuf-

He that knows mod of himfclf, knows kM of Disacqjja'intance. n.f.

Swift.

[dirt and fit.]

Pufic.

unprepared.

Ralrgt.

company is like a dog, ivho dim thofe moft

Dirt-pie.

by himf-lf abus'd r^x difabus'd.

tom.]

Many withdrew themfelves out of pure faint-

;

Ill

Still

nefs, and difatility to attend the conclufion.
^

to pollute ; tonafty.

whom he loves bed.

fyahons Angler*
Chaos of thought and pafiions, 4H confus'd

Want of power to do any thing ; weak-

like iijahiliiy to breed or beget faith.

jbrdidnefs.

bedaub ; to foil ;

as, Jiruo, to build ; dcjlruo,

Our confiJcration of creatures, and attention
unto fcriptures, are not in themfelves things of

The fea rifcs as high as ever, though the great
tieaps of dirt it brings along with it are apt to
choak up the Ihallowt.
Addifcn.
Mark by what wretched fteps their glory grows
From dirt and fea-weed as proud Venice rofe :
In each how guilt and greatnefs equal ran.
And all that raisM the hero funk the man. Pipe,
Is yellow dirt the paflion of thy life ?
Ptpe.
Look but on Gripus, or on Gripus' wife.

thofe that prolefs angling, I hope Xu difubufe yoit.

nefs ; impotence.

1

that fliall bury them in the
tyake.

little dirt

fVall'r.
Are dijabus'd when fir!! flic gapes.
If by limplicity you meant a general defcft iu

to

from the

to deftroy.

Numbers engage their lives and labours to heap
together a
jid.

If flic would bite :
Like birds they ftoop atfeeming grapes.

Disabi'lity. »./ [from difcille.'\

They, gilding dirt in noble vcrfe,
Rufticic philofophy rehearfe.

defnouer,

as,

dejlerrar, to banifh :

Latin de ;

dirt, Ulandick.]

any tiling that

her lovers, tlUiugh

implying commonly a priva-

niards in this fenfe :

Sptvfer.

mire;

Clannlle's Sce^Jii,

Thole t:eth fair Ljce muft not (how.

arm ; to Join, to disjoin. It is borrowed Disaccommoda'tion. n.f. [<//V and «<from des, ufed by the French and Spacominodatioti.] The Hate of being unfit <tf

folete.
Thy wafte bignefs but cambers the ground.
And dirkes the beauties of my bloflbms round.

filth;

The impofture and fallacy of our fenfei impofe
not only on common heaj:, but even more refined
mercuries, who have the advantages of an improve^
reafon to difabuft you.

tive or negative fignilication of the word
to wiilch it is joined : as, to arm, to di/-

fe DiRKE. -y. a. To fpoil ; to ruin. Ob-

Mud;

ceive.

An infcparable particle r.lcd in com-

pofition,

fchohr, not

yp DisABu'sE. f. a. [disandabu/e.] To
fet free from a miftake ; to difentangle
from a fallacy ; to let right ; to unde-

The aft of barlling, or breaking.
The ftate of burlHng, or breaking.

Come forth in all their warlike gcers.
The ftiield, the piftol, dirk, and dagger.

DIRT. «./. [</r>'f, Dutch

I will not difablt any for proving a

yet dillemble thai I have fecn mncy happily forced
up-.n the courfe to which by nature tiwy teemed
lyotton^
much indifpofed.

DIRUTTION. n.f. [dtruptio, Latin.]

DIRK. n./. [an Erfe word.] A kind of

In which they daily wont to fwagger.

Arliulhr.it.

ters.

2.

cations.

to foil.

;

The lords Strutts lived generoudy, and never

Di'ricent. adj. [dirige/is, Latin.]
any figure.

Seuit.

To Di'rty. i». a, [from the noun.]

brydc)!,

Tl\e</iri^Mf line in geometry is that along which
the line dcfcribcnt is carried in the generation ot

Shal:Jfeare»

To deprive of ufefiilnefs or efficacy,

\.

Fatewel, Monfieur Traveller ; look you lifp, »tii

I'aylor't Holy Living.
Marriages would be made up upon more naiu .il
motives than mccr dirty interefts, and increalc >!
Temf'c.
riclies without meafure or end.
They come at length to grow fots and epicures,
mean in their difcourfes, and dirty in their prac-

Sandys,
All due meafures of her mourning kept.
Did office at the dirgt, and by infedion wept.

By Ihewing fornethip.g a triore fwellirg port
Than my faint means would grant oniinuance.

wear ftrange fuits ; difabit all the benefits of your

many

Your lafting cpicedium.

to dyiinilh.

Lacke.

into an qily one.

SbaktjfcariU Htmht.

feurcly buried.

;

I have dijabled mine eftatr.

will be altered into a dtrly one, and the fweet taiVc

indignities and rcptoachcs, \!ntd'vr\gn andobfcquie>

of the

To impair

3.

Sullied ! cloudy } not elegant.
Pound an almond, .-ind the clear white colour

In equal fcale weighing delight and dole.

1.

for tw»
1 have known a great fieet difabici
months, and thereby lofe great occii6onJ by an inTemflct
dlfpofition of the admiral.

Haul'd thither by mechanic, diiiy hand?.
Shahffure.

riage,

after

To hinder from aftion: ufed of thing*.

Is in bafe durance, tni contagious p'rifon,

2.

Meanwhile the body of Richard,

li^m, by yielding to diat«n«ny with whom li« maft
Saykr't ihh Lii-ing,
ftrive.
.

I.

Foul; nafty ; filthy.
ThyDol and Helen of thy noble thoughts

1.

tory fong to commemorate and applaud
Bacon apparently
the dead. Verfttgan.
mournful ditderives it from dirigi. ]
ty ; a fong of lamentation.
Th' imperial jointrefs of this warlike ftate
Have we, as 'twere, with a defeated joy.

Taken to wife.

.

Di'rty. adj. [from dirt.]

their Jyrke, and our dirgt, was a lauda-

A

..

Naflinefs ; filthinefs ; foulncfs,
2. Meannefs ; bafenefs ; fordidmfj.
1.

parts

already publiflied give reafon t»

think, that the Iliad will appear with no dif.idvantage to that immortal poem.
Addifcn^t Freeholder,
Their reftimony wiii not be of much weight to
its difadvantage,

lince they are liable to the com-

mon objeiflion of condemning what they did not
Swift*

underfl-ind.

3.

A (late not prepared for defence.
No fort can be fo ftrong,
Ne flcibly breail can armeJ be (0 found,
3

But

D I S

D I S

But will at lift be won with batt'rjr long,

To DfSAPPo'REST. -v. a. [dis Md/are/.] 7oI)lSALLO'w. 1/. tt.
To throw open to common purpofes to
fion ; not to grant

Or unawares at Jifadvaniage found. Fairy $uifv,

Ti Disadva'ntace.

reduce from the privileges of a foreft to
the ilate of common ground.
The commiUioners of the treafury moved the

h

Ail 'other vialences are
far iVom advancing
Chriftianity, that they extremely weaken and </,/'
ad-vanl^gt xt.

to dipfcrejl fome forefls of his, explaining
themfelves oi fuch forefts as lay out of the way, not
near any of the king's houfes.
Baccti.

'vantage. \ Contrary to profit; producing

How happy 's he, which hath due place aflign'd

A word not ufed.

To his hearts

In clearing of a man's. eftate, he may as well
hurt himfelf in being too fudden, as in letting it

2.

3.

''"°-

1.

z.

Now I.e hath left }ou here,
To be the record of his rueful lofs.
And of my doleful difttdvinturout death.
Fj}rf Slyeen.

1.

2.

after death, as being
life, and depart upon

[from dija-

Untuitablenefs ; contrariety.
Unpleafantnefs ; offenfivenefs.

I.
fta-

Difference; diffimilitude ;
not identity ; not likenefs.

Stil/ingfftet.

D isAFfE CTBDLY.adv.[fromdi/aJiaed.1

eafily didinguiflied.

The quality of being difarfeaed.
Disaffe'ction. «./. [[com dijaffid.l

They feemed one to crofs another, as touching

ed.]

^^

to the
public difpofiti-jns, to the a/feaioni
and difaffic
tiam, of [he people ; and muft nut
introduce a law
with public fcanJal and difplcafure.

^

.

'^''S'"-''

2.

^

The difcafe took it, original me-ely

difaffea^n of the part, and not from
the ,>ecc nc
ot tne hu noun.
ic^-r

3.

pofite c(.,.clu(ion to

4.

fometlimg that ,s apparenflv
ablurd, ,s a demonaration in
^/,«^,«„„ of

Hung that ii iSumti.

my

To cen.''ure

;

I

I

wak'd
Milton.

W'hen the night and winter disappear,

The purple morning, rifing with the year.

I

Salutes the fpring.

Dr/den.

The pifturcs drawn in our minds are laid in
fading colours, and, if not fomctimes refreflied,
vanifli

To cenfure by fome pofterlor aft.
I'.ivcd h\% p. -.cesdings.

Confutation ; negation.
reduceth the op

not to permit.

Fr.]

[difparoitre,

To find her, or for ever to deplore.

and difappear.

Locke.

Criticks I law that others names deface.

And fix their own with labour in their place

It was known that the m-,ft eminent of thofe
who prufeded his own principles, publickly dif.il-

DiSAFFi RMANCE. «./. [dh and affirm.-]
Ttia: icinJ of reafoning which

;

n.

fight ; to fly ; to go away.
She difppear'd, and left me dark

Their ufual kind of difputing flicwcth, that they
do not difallo-jj only thefe Rom fli ceremonies
which are unprofitable, but count all unprofitab e
whicli arc Romifh.
Hooker.

'

from th-

To confider as unl.iwful

-v.

To be loft to view; to vaniih out of

DryJen'i Hind and Panther.

bad conAitution : in a phv-

fical fenfe.

To Disappe'ar.

Provided Hill it were apoltolic ?

In this age, every thing diUik<:.i
by thofe who
think with the majority, it called
d.jag,a\un.

3. Diforder ;

H..ker.

Were thofe firft councils dl/alI'Mu d by me ?
Or where dd I at fure tradition Ittike,

of ardour for the reigning prince.

Defame

?

When, f.id (he.

Rol' "/Holy Lrvhr

Herbert,

.

Wilt thou my judgments difannulf

To DisALLo'w. 'v. a, [dis and allnu.]
1. To deny authority to any.

,
Want ofr zeal for
the government ; want

iir

2.

God was, who was hungry here

Wouldft thou his laws of fading dijuniiulf
,,,.,

of facraments, whereas in truth their difagmmtnt is
not

e«"-

^acon.

_

To be in both worlds full.
Is more than

My equal rule, to clear thylelf of blame Sandys.
Disannu'lment. «./ [hum difannul.}
The ad of making void.

their feveral opinions about the ncceflity

J

make null ; ta

Hooker.
""=jr,
i hat gave him power of difanmilllng of
_
laws, and
difpofing of men's fortunes and crtates, and
the like
points Of abfolute power, being in tijemfelves
harih
and odious.

IVo'.dward.

Difference of opinion ; coHtrariety of
fentiments.

2.

to deprive of auto

The Jews ordinances for us to refume, were tt>
check our Lord himfelf, which hath dljannullid

diverfuy

DiSAFFE'cTEDNESs.n./. [from di/hfea^

;

make void ; to nullify.

Thefe carry fuch plain and evident notes and
charaflers, either of dijagntment or affinity
with
one another, that the feveral kinds of them
are

proceeded againft as di/affcled to the emperr.r.

To annul

barous.]

thority ; to vacate ;

dearncfs of

give, they were

ill will.
Inmaicingljws, princes muft have regard

iffeSions which depend on
difammaiirm.

negative fenle by the needlefs ufe of the
negative particle.
It ought therefore ta
be rejected, as ungrammatical and bar-

the perfon eafily apologizing for the
Not difpofed to zeal or affedlion. UiudifagruaUmtJi of the habit.
S'Mh.
ally applied to thofe who are enemies
to Disagree ment. n. f. [from difagree.]

Diflike;

lervant of ray lord

Brown's Vjilgar Erroart.

A

DiSAFPE CTBD. part. adj. [From difiji/f.]

I.

^

Boyle's Seraphic Love.

Unpleafing; offenfive.

tather will hug and embrace his beloved fon,
for all the dirt and fouliiefs of his doaths
j the

C7^r,W™.

*

How can th

Privation of life.
They cannot in reafon retain that apprehenfion

greeable.

with difcontent ; to difcontent ; to
make lefs faithful or zealous.
They had attempted to dijaffil} and difcontent
fill

After a difaffeded manner.

to deprefs.

;

;

The prefence of a king engenders love ainongft
his fubjefts and hij loyal friends, as
it dlfanimatcs
his enemies.
Shakefpeare's Henry VI.

Disanima'tion. «./ [from difanimate.l

Contrary ; unfuitable.
Some demon, an enemy to the Creeks, had

n. /.

CT.'v.a. [disinia£ecl.]To

tue», which the cuftom then was to

2.

To make the fenfe of elleem ordifgrace link the ToDisannu'l. -v. a. [dis and an,at!. This
deeper, and be of the mote weight, either
word is formed, contrarily to analogy,
agreeable
or dijagrttatle things fliould conftantly
accompany
by thofe who, not knowing the meaning
thefe different ftates.
Lukt.
of the word annul, intended to form a
Disagree'ablenbss.

;

the government.
By denying civil worlhip to thff emperor's

To deprive pf life.
To difcourage to dejefl;

1.

talk with my lord ?

Aticrbury.

forced her to a condufl dijigruabti to her
Cnce-

lofs.

South.

He was confounded and dijar.iniatid at his pre-

Disa«ree'able. adj. [from difagree.]

[from

'

To Disa'nchor. 'V. a. [from a'/.f and an.
chor.] To drive aftiip from its anchor.
To Dis a'ni MATE, v, a. [dis and ani-

fence, and added,

'

they call realbn,

Contrariety to profit

his majefty-s late army.

Brnun.

Strange it la, that they rejeQ the plaineft ferfof fcripture, becaufe it feems to dh'agrte ivilb what

on, and make you difplay yourfelves more
difadvantagaujly.
Gcvcrnmcnt cfthe Torgue.
^

does nut declare

his refufal and difallowavce of it.

:

moft in all things/rwji the true and proper defcrip

manner not fa-

An approving nod or fmile ferves to drive yo

,

To be in a Hate ofoppofition followed
by /rent or wti, before the oppofite.
It containeth mary improprieties, dijagredng al-

In a manner contrary to

Disadve'nturou;. adj. [dis and adveittaroui.']
Unhappy unprofperous.

God accepts of a thing fuitable for him to receive, and for us to give, where he

mate.]

Drydt„.

.

vourable.

_
_
ioDiSAFFE

not to be of the fame opi-

Why both the bands In worfliip difagree.

Disadvanta'ceously. adv. [homdif

inconvenience; raifchief;

;

And fume adore the flow'r, and Ibme the tree.

Sfeflalor.

difad-cantageous. ]

Prohibition,

nion.

i

A

n. /.

DiSALLo'WANCE. »./ [from difal/o'w.J

Lucke.

To differ

[from difallonu.1

adj.

Not allowable ; not to be fuffered.

tind ideas to dijagrtt; that is, the one not to be

multitude of eyes will nariowly Jivfpcfl every
part of an eminent man, cr>fifidcr him nicely
in
all »iew8, and not be a little pleafed when
they
have taken him in the worft and moft difad-vaniageous lights.
Mdifov-s

Djsadvanta'ceousness.

Dv.r.e.

[dis T^nA agree.]

the other.

I'antage.']

in a

!

DisALLo'wABLE.

The mihd clearly and infallibly perceives all dif-

Disadvanta'ceous. adj. [from difadContrary to intereJl ; contrary to convenience ; unfavourable.

God doth in converts, being married, allow con.
_
-tinuance with infidels, and yet di/a/low that
the
faithful, when they are free, fliould
enter into
bonds ot wedlock with fuch.
Hooker.

To differ ; not to be the fame.

1.

nn

intereil or profit ;

and d'ljifforefted his mind

7» Disagree', 'v.n.

on toj long ; for hafty felling is commonly aj
dijadtaniagtablt as intereil.
Bccon,

advantageous.']

;

make or

not to

fuppofe lawful.

king

Deiay (./ Piay.

Disj»dva'ntaceable. aJj, {ii^vadifadlofs.

To refufe permif-

;

[from the
noun.] To injure in intcreftofany kind.
a.

'v.

D I S

Swift,

not to jullify.

There is a I'Arel, inward f ireboding fear, that
(ome evil or other will follow the doing of that
which a nun's own conTcieacc difullnui him n
i

^/^//_
Stuiii,

;

Their ..wn, like others, foon their place relign'd.
Or difappear'd, and left the firft behind.
Pope.

To DiSAppo'iNT. o. a. [disznd appoint.]
I .

To defeat of expeftation ; to balk ; to
hinder from fomething cxpefted.

The fuperior Being can defeat
and difipfoint all his hopes.

all

his dcfigns
Tilbifott,

Whim

D 1 5

DIS

DuASJiDu'jTV. «./. Abfence of care or

H< only does his con!)uell difavnv,
And tliinlu too little what they fuund too mueti.

D I S
Whilft thr champian, w'nh KiSdubW inl(he,
Strikes home the jjv'lin, his irtiring foe
Shrinks t'rjm the wound, a;nl (/[/iJ/'/iiiwt the blow.
jUJifin.
There's nothing like fuiprifing tlie rogues : how
»ill they

hi- ilifapj>nnteH, vihca

attention.

The Cecillani kept him back;
knovking that,

Atidifon'a FreibMtrDISA'&TER. n.f. [^j/a/?r«. French.]
DiSAVo'wAL. n.f. [ixom dijavovj."] De1. The blaft or ftrolce of an unfavourable

u>, but »re dijuff'^micd by the lilence of

planet.

men wlwn it is unexpefted, and humbled even by
2.

Stars

jiaJiJcn.

Kxiha.

lamity.
This day black omens threat the brighteft fair.
That e'er dcferv'd a watchful fpirit's care.

from

[

<?'//«/•

/w«/.] Defeat of hopes ; mifcarriage of
It is impoSible for us to know what afe calamimany accidents
ua, and wiiat ate bleiTings.
palled for misfortunes, which have turned to

haw

the wclt'ire and profpcrity of the perfcns in whole
How many dijafifiintmnti
Hi
lot they have fallen 1
have, in their confequences, faved a man from
SfcBator.
ruin
If we hope for things, of which wc have not

Ah, chafte bed of mine, Md (he, which never

fliew

^oDisAPPRO'vE. 1'. a. \_delapprottver, Fr.]

To diflike
I leal'on'd

;

To

notonly in regard of this overthrow, but for thai
upon the fame day theji were defeated by the Eng

-TtfiC'
makes fuprrior fcnfe beiov'd,
rejsft as difliked; not to confirm

lilh

2.

lUywar~

arFloodenfi-ld.

Gloomy ; threatening misfortune.
In dim eclipfe, difuftmus twilight fliedj

was tranfmitted hither from Hi>lan(), and was di(-

with artliftion.
Then Juno, pitjing her di/iflrottt fate.

A

Skinner ; difeur, French, "Juniti!.^
prattler ; a boalling talker. This word
inferted both by Skinner and Junius ;

but 1 do not remember it.

ToDisa'rm. f. a.

ing all the papills in England.
I am liill the fame,

Clarmdon.

To fave tlie town, than arming you before.

Dryd.

2, It has o/" before the arms taken away.
They wjuld be immediately d'ljartnid of their
I.crif.
great magazine of artillery.

A R R a'y . -v.a. [dis and array.'\ To
undrefs any one ; to diveft of clothes.
I s

a (he bad, the witch they dijarray'd.

J lie
fli

JDryd^n.

2.

_

To retrail profeflion

;

.'\

Dicl.

To DiSAVo'w. ai. a. [d'ls and at/oxi'.] To
difown to deny knowledge of ; to deny

And, when occafi )ii Icrv'd, dijiitiiea thciii. Fairf,
The (hip we moor on thele obfcure abides ;

;

concurrence in a"ny thing, or with any

Dijbark the (hcep, an oficring to the gcds.
faje'i Odylfiy.

perfon.

Dubeli'ef. n.f. [(rom dijhelieve.'\ Re-

the fame, are either ignorant thereof, or do wil-r
fully deny, orjlcdfaftly difuvc^O it,
ifcKjcr'i State oflrtJand.

lofs of

the regu-

He returned towards the river, to prevent fuch
danger as the difirroy, occafione.i by the narrownefs of the bridge,' mij,tit caft upon them.
Hayivard.
Vifarroy and fhamcful rout enftie.
And force is added la the fainting crew.
Dtydin's Fallis,

t' Uadrcfs.

To

Together I'al' they, iraught with all the thingi
To fervice dene by land that might belong,

Now night is come, now foon her difurruy.
And in her bed her lay. Spfrjtr't EpithjUimum.
Difordcr ; confuuon ;
lar order of battle.

grow wild a: d becime a forell.
Tilkijen,
be diflblved.
Wh'.e rocks ftand,
And riwrs Or, thou canft not Ihrink or quail
Yfa, when both rocks and all things (hall dijband,
Vheo (halt til >u be my rock and tower,
lltrh.

;

Di'itirl.

The he'rj and pofterity of them which yielded

[fronj the verb.]

uio be fully paid upon their Ji/4ff«j;ff^. Clarti:d.

To Disba'rk, 1;. a, [rtt^aryniT, French.]
To land from a Ihip to put on (liore.

to difown.

Thereupon they Hatly dijavourh
To yield him more obedience or funport.

1

The EngUfh did believe his. name was thcftin
abuftd; which hemanifefted to be true, by dljaijotoHnynwrd.
ing it openly aftcnvards.
To deal in ptrfon is good, when a man's face

hrcedeth rr£.i d, and generally when, a man will refirvc to himfeif liberty cither to difaww or to ex-

pound*

Safort,

A roan that afts below his rank, doth but d[favsio fortune, and feemeth to be confcioua bi his
own want in worth, and doth but leach others to
cr.vv him<

inferior oilicers,

t/jy^i;^ and run ntocotifurion, and the earth would

In a difmal manner.

Unluckinefs ; unfortunatenefs.

and

foldiers,

Were it not f^ft f me fmall remainders of piety
and virtue, whir.h aie yet ieft fcattcrcd among
mankind, human fociety would in a Ihort fpa<;e

Disa'strously. adv. [from di/ajrous.]
Disa'strousness. »./ [from di/afirous

JiiUltllt

co.nmon

'

Kly the purfuit of my dipflrwi love ;

Fairy ^tfrr.

Dijarra'y. n.f.

'

Puiurs.

pedition, fuch difajlmii calamities betel his family,
that he burnt two of bis children hirnfelf. South.'

To DiSAVOu'cH. f. a. [dis and a'vouch.]

By different ways ftill moving to one fame
And by dijarfifg you 1 now do more

I.

Sends Iriii down, her pangs co mitigate. Deitam.
Immediately after his return from this ve y ex-

[di/ariiter,

An order was made by both houfcs, for difarm-

So,

Our navy was up m the point of i///^<ii»/!nf, and
many of our men come alhore. Bae.ffarwitb Sf.
The ra..g'dpow'rs
D /hand, and wand'ring each his fe.eral way

ftruck

;

From my unhappy neighbourhood remove.

French.]
1. To fpoil or diveft of arms; to deprive
of arhis.

y» D

;

"V. n.

To retire from military fervice ; to fe-

.

parate ; to break ap.

_M''cn

3. Unhappy calamitous; miferabie

16

I

On half the nations.
Swift.

To DiSB a'nO.

The moon.

A project for a treaty of barrier with the States
afprotitd of by our courts.

Dryderi'l AurmgKehe*
Bid him di/b.ind his legiuns.
Addifin'i Caie,
difmifs from fervice.
2,
Some imagine that a quantity of water, fufficient
to make fuch a deluge, was created upon that occalion ; and, when the buiinefs wa> apne, ail difbundtd again, and annihilated.
H'iod'wari,

That feeroetb a moft difajlrtui day to the Scots,

;

DisARu. n./. [hip, bifis, Saxon, a fool,

-

adj.

Dcnkiiv..

Difian d my army to fccurc the (late,

Tbomfor..

[(rom di/aj}er.'\

Disa'strous,
1. Unlucky; not fortunate.

by concurrence,
t

Pythagoras bids us in ourftation ftand,
Till GoJ, our general, (hall us dijband.
1 «m content to lead a private life;

Shakiffcart.

In his own fields, the fwain

That only

To

They difhandcd themfelves, and returned every
Knolla's Hijlorj,
man to his own dwelling.

to mifchief.
Thele are the linlcs where eyes fliouid be, which

to cenfure.

much, alas! but more I lov'd

from their colours.

;

pitifully dij.ifi:i the cheeks.

Sent and recaU'd,ordain'd uni Jlfjf/,rov'd. Prior.
Without good breeding truth \% dtja^frbv^ d \

i.

To afflia

2.

To difmifs from military fervice ; to
break up an army ; to dilmifs foldiers

1.

heretofore couldft accufeme of one defiled thought,
how canll thou now receive that dijojlercd changes;</b7.
ling ?

his dtjiifprchalkn of the publilliing of others, Ttfc.

I.

upon the final intention of nature.
H^ottcn,
[dis '^nd iand.l

ToDisba'nd. v. a.

able ftar.

Difajlrr'd Amis.
to,

rity.

The obtrufion of fuch particular inftanccs ai

and afprocondemnation ; e.xletters,

and au~

thele, are infufficient to i//,'iii((i>sr//j a note grounded

\_dit

Ceufure ;
preflion o( diflike.
He W.18 obliged to put-lilh his

[dis

To deprive of credit or autho-

To Disa'ster. -v. a. [from the noun.]
1. To blaft by the ftroke of an unfavour-

jitiiiifon'i SftHnor.

taiion.']

thori/e.]

Poft.

thoroughly confidered the value, our difafifeimmatl
will be greater than our pleafurc in the fruition of

them.

To Disau'thorisb. v. a.

But what, or where, the fates have wrapt in night.

How

Disapproba'tion. H.f,

As touching the Tridcntine hiftory, his holinef*
will not prefs you to any Jlj'jvawatiit tlieicof.

Some dire difujfer, or by force or QighCi

^

expcfiaiions.

Chr'ijfa,

di/avovi.'\

Deni.il.

Was Cck almuft to doomfday with eclipfe.- Shak.
2. Misfortune; grief; mifhap; mifery;ca-

brgefs.

cameft difavmral of fear often proceeds

DiSAVo'wMENT. ». /. [from

bounty of Solyman a great

Dis\proi'NTMEKT. «. /

An

frt>m fear.

rj/f/'ri veil'i thefun; and the moift ftar.
Upon whole influence Neptune's c.npire llands,

pointment.
The Janizariei, <C/J/'/w(i>/<'i/ by the baflis e/the
fpoil, received of tlie

nial.

'^

(hone with traim of fire, dews of blood
fall;

has c/" before the thing loft by difap-

It

oath, that it is a part of that obedience whirfiwe
learn from the gofpel, cxprefsly to dijawu) aii
cvafions and mental refervations whatfeever.

Wataiti.

We are notonly tortured by the reproaches which
their praifcj^

We are reminded by the ceremony of taking an

his fcatk.

duity, he ihoiild be fubjeft to take cold at

they he»r Clut ihoo

hift prevented tlicir revenge !
^rtvtbn-il'i UijJiry c/JthnButi.

>.-e ..liV-red

DrydtD,

M very well

up»n every little abfcnce ur Ji/a^-

Maciti-

fufal of credit ;

denial of belief.
Our belief or dijte'itf iif a thing d^cs not alter

th'-

".atute of th'- tiling.

Ti/htfir..

To Disbeli'eve. v. a. [dis and iehe-ve.]

Not to credit

;

not to hold true.

The thinking it impodible his (ins (hould be
forgiven, though he (hould be truly penitent, is a
fin, but rather of infidelity than defpair; it being
the dijbitievmg of in eternal truth or God's.

Hammniii*% Pra^. Catech.
Such who profefs to dijhdievc a future llate, arc
not always equally fatisfied with their own reafbnings.

'

^Ittrbury.

Fiom

D I S

The cuflom of difea/ccansn, or putting off ihtir

trine of futurity rendered uncafy, they brought
themfelves to doubt of religion ; or, out of a vain

fliocj at meals, is conceived to have been done, ai
by that means keeping their beds clean.
Brczon s Vulgar Errottrs.

affectation of feeing farther than other men, pre-

Rogers.

tenJcd to d'tjbrlicvc it.

To Disca'ndy.

[from dis and
candy.] To diffolve ; to melt.
Hanmcr.
The hearts
That fpanlel'd me at heels, to whom I gave

/. [from diJbeUc've.'\
Pisbeli'ever.
One who refufes belief; one who denies
.

any pofition to be true.

Their wifhes, do difcandy, melt tlieir Iweets

caufe a man of great name pronoui;ces berefy upon
the contrar)' fentiments, and cafts the d'ljhil'iever

TcDisca'rd. -v. a. [dis AnA card.]

ffnin.

out of the cbun:fa.

drive from a feat.
Sir,

I

—
When

Na, Sir;

Shahefpeare.

as not worthy the holdini;.

[dis and branch.']

from a tree.

with dijcarding fubliancc out of the world }

newly planted, need not be d'tj-

the fap begins to

ftir,

jiddijoni Guardian.
They blame the favourites, and think it nothing
extraordinary that the queen Ihould be at an end of
her patience, and refolve to dijeard them.
Swift.

Evelyn i Kalaidar^

7<>Disbu'd. v. a. [With gardeners.]
To take away the branches or fprigs
newly put forth, that are ill placed. Diel.
To Disbu'rden. -v. a. [dij and burden.]
The river, with ten branches or flreams, dif'
turdsnt bimielf within the Perfian fea.

Ptactofn on Dratving.

do not conceive why a funk difeardtd party,
who neither expert nor defire more than a quiet
life, fliould be charged with endeavouring to introduce popery.
S-wif:.

niory, like a fcpulchre, furnifljed with a load of

They removed eicher by cafualty and (cmpcft, or
by intention and delign, either out of lucre of gold,
or for the dijhurdtninjr of the countries furcharged
lA'ith multitudes of inhabitants.

Wc

fliall dijhurdcn

To Disca'se. 1/. a.

To throw off a burden.
my life's bondage, ] yet may dijiurdinzpiffion,
i>tdiify.
Lucia, dijhurden all thy cajrs on me,

[dis

And behold among the fimple ones, I difeirned
among the youths a young man void of underlanding.
2.

cern what is wortliy the loving ?

y»Di»Bu'RDHjj. 1/. ». To eafe the mind.
To DISBLTRSE. i/. a. [debeur/er, French.]

By fomc difcretiun, that dijctrni your ftate
Better than you yourfelf.

Shakfff'.

As Alexander received great fums, he was no
Arhuthn'jt an Coini,

Disbu'rsement. a./,[dibour/einent. Ft.]
Aiflofdifljurfing or laying out.

The queen's ttealure, in fo great occafions of
dijhurjtmcnts, is not always fo ready, nor fo plenti-

can fpare lo great a fum together.
Sftnjir'i Irtltnd.

heads.

Sum fpent.

4.

{d:/<alc(atu,,

Latin.] Stripped of Ihoes.

Discalcea'tion. ». /. [from difcaJceaud.]
The aft of pulling oft the

Atterbury.

Djsce'rningly. ad'v. [from difcerning.]
Judicioufly ; rationally ; acutely.
Thefe two errours Ovid has moll difcemingly
Garth.

avoided.

Disck'rnment.

[from

». /.

dijcern.]

Judgment; power of dillinguifiiing.

A leaitr that wants dfccrrn^ent, loves and admires the charadlers and actions of men in a wrong;
Freeholder.

place.

To DISCE'Rf*. V. a.

[difcerpo,

Lat.]

leparation of its parts.

Disce'rpti BLE.

Diii.

[from

adj.

To

to dellroy by

tear in pieces ; to break j

dij'cerf.]

Frangible ; feparable ; liable to be deftroyed by the difunion of its parts.

What is moft denfe, and Icaft porous, will he
moft coherent and leaft d'.jetj ptihle. Clawj Scepfn.
Matter is moveable, this immoveable; luacter
diftrpttble^ thip imiifcerptible.

DlSCERPTIBrLITY.

}l.

i^cre.
f.

[ftOm di/cCrf-

Liablenefs to be dellroyed by
difunion of parts.
tible.]

To dijcern fuch buds as are fit to produce bloffoms, from fuch as will difplay themfelves but in
leaves, is no difficult matter.
Bcylc.

Disce'rption. n.f. [from di/cerp.] The

To make the difference between.

To DISCHA'RGE. -v. a. [decharger, Fr.]

They follow virtue for reward to-day j
To-morrow vice, if (he give better pay :

ail of pulling to pieces, or deftroying by

difuniting the parts.
t.

We are fo good, or bad, juft at a price;

Who leads a quiet country life
2.

Hayward.
The cu<V>m of arguing on any fide, even againft

ovrfer.uabsM, dims the uoderitanding, and makes

I

'

/l)ryden,

To unload ; to difembatk.
I will

convey them by (ea, in iloats, unto the
me, and will caufi;
Kings,

place that thou Ihalt appoint
them to be t'.ifthiirged.

fpoils of the foldiers, who not troubling themfelves

both.

.^,

;

Difcharg^d of bufinr-fs, void of Itrife

Great part of the country was abandoned to the
to difaro between a fubjcft and a rebel, whil/1
their lifcerty laftcd, made indifferently profit of

To difburden ; to exonerate; to free
from any load or inconvenience.
How rich in humble poverty is he.

For nothing elfe dijarni the virtue or vice.
Ben ycnfon.

Disbu'rser. »./ [hom dfjbur/c.'] One To Disce'r.v. -v. n.
I. To make diftinftion.
that difburfes.

Vol. I.

This hath been maintained not only by warm
but by cooler and more difcernir.g

enthufiafts,

Shak^feart' s King Lear.

3. To diftingullh.

le& generous and liberal in dijhurjing of them.

ihoes.

Judicious ; knowing.

Sbakcjpiart.

You Ihould be rui'd and led

Hammond.

rupt thechrillian life.

DiSce'rning. part. adj. [from dijcern.]

Either his motion weakens, or his Ji/cernings

Tilt he difjurid ten thoufand dollars.

DISCA'LCEATED. adj.

Confider what doctrines are infufed difcernihly

amongll Cliril>ians, moft apt to obftrufl or inter-

eyes ?

Me Irtharglcd.

Vifiblenefs.

Perceptibly ; apparently.

:

Money is not dijhurjed at once, but dra\Tn into a
long length, by fending over new twenty thnufand,

2.

ble.]

Sidney.

and next half year ten thoufand pounds. S^infrr.
Nor would we deign him burial for his men,

South,

Disce'rn IBLY. adv. [from difcermble.'\

Does any here know me f This is not Lear
Does i ear walk thus, fpeak thus > Where are his

To fpend or lay out money.

it

coarfcsof the undcrftanding.

Disce'rnibleness. n.f. [from dijctrni-

To judge; to have knowledge of by
What doth better become wifdom than to Jif-

.Iddyin's Calo.

Go-vernt'^ctjt of the Tongue.

All this is eafUy di/cemitle by the ordinary dif-

Pryv. vii. 7.

comparifon.

And let me (Ian cby oioft ictir'd diiiii-fs.

M

tiate on it.

To DISCE'RN. ru. a. [difcemo, Latin.]
1. Todefcry; to fee; to difcover.

I be plunged into

ful,

it dijcernrlfle, 2.nd therefore I need not farther expa-

To

cafe.]

diftinguilha-

It is iiideed a fin of fo grofs, fo formidable a
bulk, that there needs no heip of opcicks to render

Glanville.

and

to undrefs.
Fetch me the hat and rapier in my cell
1 will dfcafi me, and myfelf prefent.
Sh,ik. Temp.

Better yel-do I live, chat though by my thoughts

1.

covcrable ; perceptible j
ble ; apparent.

ftrip ;

the piece of thole hard fhn-

which are always ungraceful.
DryJtti't Dufrejny.

J.

broken and dijcarnatt bones.

HaWt Origin of Mankind.

doK'ijigs,

Disce'rnible. adj. [from dijcern.] Dif-

'Tis better to own a judgment, though but with
a carta Jupftllex of coherent notions; than a nie-

To difencumber, difcharge, or clear.

3.

appear by t'.ieir un-

Brcwn's Vulgar Errouru

qualified intelleftuats.

Disca'rnate. adj. [dis, and caro, flelh;
/carnal 0, luL] Stripped of flefV.

MJun.

Dijhurden'd heav'n rejoic'd.

How unequal dijh-tr.'n of truth they are, and
eafily expcfcd Lint.> cri^ur, will

I

to unload.

;

He was a great obferver and difcerner of men's
natures and hum'urs, and was very dexterous io
compliance, wheie hz found it ufeful.
CLnndcn.

L'^cke.

JixR'iccdifcurds party, fricndfhip, kindred, and is
always thercfaie reprcfented as blind.

that fo the

wound may be healed wirfiout the fear.

To eafe of a burden

Difcovei L'l- ; he that defcries.
'Twjs fjiu they law but one; and no difcerner
Duifl wjg his tongue in eeniure. ^Ibak. Hen. VIU.
2. Judge ; one that has the power of diftinguilhing.
1.

Should we own ih'at we have a very iniperfefl
idea of fubHance, would it not be hard to ciiarge us

From her maternal fap, perforce rouft wither.
And come to deadly ufe.
Sbskefp. K'ing hear.
till

Sidney.

and the inchoations towards crimes canot adlually perpetrated.
BaccH,

Disce'rner. »./. [from di/c^rn.]

Spcrijfr'i StJtf cf Ire/jnd.

She that herfelf will flivcr tnA Jl/irjticb

hrartrhtd

pital,

Their captains, if they lift, difrard v,hiim they
pleafe, and fend away fuch as will peihaps willingly
be rid of that dangerous and hard fervice.

To feparate, or break off, as a branch

as are

It difcernctb of forces, frauds, crimes various of

To difmifs or ejedl from fervice or emconfidering what wonders tiiey weie able to perform, yet vitn difcardtd by that unworthy prince,

To have judicial cognizance: not in ufe.
ftellionate,

ployment.
Thefe men being certainly jewels to a wife man,

?

yet oft.

blows have made mr ftay, I fled from words.

Such

2.

are ufelefs.

hope

TV DisbRa'nch. v. a.

Shahjyiare.

To throw out of the hand fuch cards a?

1

2.

My words dijhenck^d you not

—

On blolToming Caefar.

To

by dcgieei lofe the faculty of d'ifcen.'uig between
'
truth and filfehood.
Locke.
it

n.

'V.

An humble foul is frighted into fentunents, be-

TV Disbe'kch. I", a. [dii ind iencb.']

I.

D I S

D I S

Fiom t fondaefs to fome vices, which tlit <la£>

3.

To throw off any thing coIleSed or accumulated ; to give vent to any thing ;
to let fly.
It is ufed of any thing violent or fudden.
3

Y

-

Mountinj;

Mounting his eyes,

in regard of a dream of Calphu.nia, this man tolJ

him, he hoped he would not difmifs the fcnate till
Bacon.
his wife had dreamed a better dream.

Infcfted minds
To their deif pillows will dijcbarge their fecrcts.
Hhekeffietre': Mccbtlb.

The matter oeing fuppurated, I opened an inflamed tubercle in the great angle of the left eye,
and difcbarged a well-coucofled matter.

On feaa and fliorcs their fury to tlijdargr.
X)ryiicn'i Ovid*

And all your wrongs the proud oppreflors rue.
Pifii Slai'iui.

ous fire, fo wherever there are any extraordinary

Mdifiri tn Jialy.

Mark the difcbarge of

the

it ever break

Sbakrfpt,2rt'tAnlimy avd Cleopatra.
Now to the horrors of that uncouth place
He paflage begs with unregarded pray'i.
And wants two farthings to difchargr his fare.

middle.

cloud upon

lification for improvement by educatioa

:

as, the go-

vernour folicited his difcbarge,
5. Releafe from an obligation or penalty.

Diyden's Juvenal.

If he had
The prefent money to dijchargt the Jew,

Pertaining to difcipline.

The text exprell'es the found cftate of the con-

DisciPLiN a'rian. n.f. [di/ciplina, hat J]
1. One who rules or teaches with great
flridnefs
one who allows no deviation

lical unqueftionables, arc neglc£led!

not condemning us ; which word imports properly
an acquittance or difcbarge of a man upon fome
p-.ccedent accufation, and a full trial and cogniSouth.
zance of his caufe.

To clear a debtor.
A grateful mind

.

by owing owes not, but ftlll pays ; at once

7.
Milton.

To fet free from obligation.

Ranfom

To clear from an accufation or crime

;

to abfolve : with e/.
Tiicy wanted not rcafons to he difcbarged ff all
klame, who are confcflcd to have no great iault,
even by their very word and teftimony, in whofe
eyes no fault of ours hath ever hitherto been
Hookey,
Clleemed to be fmall.
They are imprudent enough to difcbarge themftlves c/'this blunder, by laying the contradiftion
Drjden.
at Virgil's door.

To perform ; to execute.
Had i a hundred tongues, a wit fo large

ciarg/d, or attempered, byfetling ftronget poifons
Bacon.
Or purgatives by them.

la. To diveftofany office or employment;
todifmifs fromfervice as, he difchargcd
his fteward ; the foldier wa» difcharged.
:

;

to releafe ; to fend away

from any bufinefs or appointment.
Ptfebargt yaui fow'n uoM their feveral counJtet,

SbakiJ^eare.

the ftate, as puritans, or difciplinarians,
Sanderf, Pax. EceU

Milton.

facred ; nothing can abfolve us from the difcbarge
L'Efirange.
of thole duties.

9.

An acquittance from a debt.

10.

Exemption ; privilege.

Pertaining to difcipline.
Relating to government.

2.

Thofe canons in behalf of marriage were only
grounded on prudential motives.
Bijhop Feme,
3. Relating to a regular coarfe of educadifciplinary,

There is no difcbarge in that war, neither fliall
wickednefs deliver thofe that are given to it.

tion.

Eccl. viii. 8.

Thefe are the

Discha'rger. ti.f. [from di/ciarge.]

promifed by Porta, by borax and butter, which
he fays will make it fo go off, as fcarcely to be
Brtnvn,
heard by the difcharger.

is

We found fevcral concretions fo foft, that we

Education; infiruftion ; the aft of cultivating the mind; the aft of forming;

I.

the manners.

He had charge my difciprtr.e to frame,
And tutors nourlturc to ovcrfec.
Spcnfer,
The cold of the northern parts is that which,
without aid of difcipline, doth make the bodiest
hardeft, and the cour..§cwarmeft.
Bjcsr..

They who v\'ant that fenfe of difcipline, hearing,
are alfo by confequence deprived of fpeech.

A

King Charles.

The commemorating the death of Chrilt, is the
profciling ourfclves the difciples of the crucified Sa-

viour ; and that engageth us to take up his crofs

Hammond.
and fallow him.
A young difcifle (hould behave himfelf fo well, as
to gain the aSc^isn and (he car of his inftrudlor.

Holder.

by the afliftancc of the eye and the ear efpecially, which are called the fcnfes of difciptirt,
that our minds are furnifhed with various parts of
knowledge.
H'^atis.It is

fcholar ; one that profeiTes to receive inftruilions from another.
He rebuked difciflei who would call for fire
from heaven upon whole cities, for the negleft of

Milton,.

DI'SCIPLINE. n.f. {di/dplina, Latin.],

Beyle,

DlSCl'PLE. tt.f. [di/cifuluj. Latin.]

a few.

wherein our noble and.

plirarywiy.

To abate the bombilation of gunpowder, a way

could eafily difcind them betwixt our fingers.

ftudies,

gentle youth ought to beftow their time in a (/i/i-;-

He that difcharges in any manne».
2. He that fires a gun.
1

divide ; to cut in pieces.

done by little and little, and with many
effays ; but all this dijcbargetb not the wonder.
Bacon s Natural Hiflory.
Trial would alfo be made in herbs poifonous and
fwgacivc, whofe ill quality perhaps may be difis

To diimils

from their perpetual clamour
about difcipline.
They draw thofe that diffent into dillike with

called

Performance ; execution.
Di'sciplinarv. adj. \dijciplina, Latin.
The obligations of hofpitality and proteftion are

Disci'ncr. adj. ldi/cin^us,Litia.'\ UnDi^.
girded ; loofely dreffed.
Dryden't FaHeu
to obliterate j to de- To Disci'nd. v. a, [di/citidt, Latin.] To

»oy-

13.

A follower of the prefbyterian feft, fo-

2.

;

As could theii hundred ofBces difcbarge.

It

;

price of ranfom.
O, all my hopes defeated
To free him hence But death, who fets all free.
Hath paid his ranfom now and full difcbarge.

8.

Clanv.Scefjis*

from flated rules.

!

If one man's fault could difcbarge another man
of his duty, there would be no place left for the
L'Eflrange.
common offices of fociety.
When they ha« taken a degree, and are conlequently grown a burden 'to their friends, who now
think themfelves fully difcbarged, they get into
S^vift
orders as foon as they can.

;

What eagernefs in difciplinarisfi uncertainties,
when the love of God and our neighbour, evange-

fcience, not barely by its not accufmg, but by its

ShaheJf.Menb. of Venice.

Hale,

DisciPLi N a'ri AN. adj, [from di/cifliue.l
MMton.

Some days.
_
5. Abfolution from a crime.

To fend away a creditor by payment.

To pat away

perception, phantafy, and memory, common ti>
moii if not all animals, but fomethingof fagacity^

Us, haply too fecure of our difcbarge
From penalty, becaufe from death rcleas'd

we contrail debts beyond

fta; and thofe are paid with money, when they
will not take our goods to difcbarge them. Locke.

ti.

We find in animals, efpecially fome of them, u
foxes, dogs, apes, hotfes, and elephants, not onljr

providence, and difciplinatleneft.

He warns

When foreign trade imports more than our com-

and difcipline.

up firft in the flcirts, and laft in the
Bacon't Natural liiflory.

4. Difmiflion from an office

Capacity of inftruftion ; qua-

flinaile,]

little

glafs or gems, or blades of fwords, and you /hall fee

Death of one perfon can be paid but once,

lo.

DisciplTnableness. »./ [from di/ci~

Sharp's Surg,

Difruption ; evanefcence.

3.

[di/ciplinabilit,

ing.

The hzmorrhage being flopped, the next occurrence is a thin ittOMi difcbarge.

odj.

Latin.] Capable of inftrudtion ; capable
of improvement by difcipline an J learn-

Matter vented.

2.

^nd that the Ijs dijibarg'd.

9.

DisCIPLi'nabLE.

Jfoodicard.

ing fprings hotter than ordinary.

To clear a debt by payment.

8.

Spenfer^

That to which juftificatlon is promifed, is the

difcbargct of this fire, there alfo are the neighbour-

upon us nfty-fix times, though the air was

Indebted and dijcharg'd.

with an iron whip

giving up of the whole foul intirely unto Chrift, undertaking difciflefhip upon Chrift's terms.
Hamn^^or.d's Prali. Cateeb,

emiflion
As the heat of all fprings is owing to fubterrane-

We difihaiged a piftol, and had th: fou-.id rc-

7.

!

ftate or fundlion of a difciple, or follower

Vent ; explofion ;

1 .^

A conceit runneth abroad, that there fliould be

He would not take it.

This word

of a mailer.

Bacon's Natural Hifiery.

Discha'rge. »./ [from the verb.]

a w lite powder, which will dijcharge a piece withBacon,
out noi fc.
l^he galleys alfo did oftentimes, out of their
prow , difcitirrt their great piices agalnft the city.
KroHtt's Hi/lory.

6.

She, bitter penance

The cloud, if it were oily or fatty, would not
difcbarge.

To unload a gun.

modities will pay for,

to difcipline.

Was wont him to difciple everyday.

to break up.

Pofe's Odypj.

Difcbarge thy (hafts ; this ready bofom rend.

'

;

not in ufe.

is

To Discha'rce. v. «. To difmifs itfelf; Disci'pLESHiP.M./ {hom di/dph.'\ The

•Soon may your fire difchnrgt the vengeance due,

tofgy.

To puniQi

2.

Wifemans Surgery.

Soon may kind heav'n a fu-e relief provide;

5.

He did look far
Into thff fervke of the time, and was
Shaiefpnre,
VUcipled of the bravell.

14. To emit.

Nor were thofe bluft'ring brechren left at large,

t'lriied

To Disci'pLE. v. a. [from the tiouB.J
To train ; to bring up.
1

When Cxfar would have difcbarged the fenitf,

He i'li iijiharge a horrible oath. Sbak. Hen. VIII.

4.

D I S

D I S

D I S

,

Rule of government; order.; methodi
of government.
They hold, that from the very apoftles time-,
till

this prefent age,

wherein yourfclvei imagine

ye have found out a right pattern of found difcipline,,
there never was any time fate to be followed. HyAer^
As we are to believe for ever the articles of evangelical doctrine, (o the precepts of difcipline we
are; in like foic,b9ui}d for ever (oobf«rvc.

Hooker.

While

D I S

D I S

While we do tim'ts

the ftone ;iiclude4 In them U thereby JifeltM anj

tV%t virtue and thi» moral difdflme,
Let's be no ftoicks.

fet at liberty.

Stfliffeare.

3. Military regulation.
This opens a)l your vidlories in Scotland,
Vour Jifciflm in w.i, wifdom in peace. Sbakeff.
Let croolccd fteel invade
The lawlafs troops which di/tipli'tt dilclaim,
And their fupcrtluous growth with rigour tame.

To hatch

2.

It

3.

To reveal

Any thing taught j art

fcience.
;
Art may be faid to overcome and advance na-

ture in thefe mechanical Jifcif lines, which, in this
refpeO, are much to be preferred.
H^ilkitij,

Defeat ;

5

Sad tidings bring I to you out of France,

Ot lofs, of flaughter, and dfcmiftute.

Bacon.

to tell ; to impart what

will depart.

is

nietal

£„/«,,

the diftomjiture and flaughter of great iiolls is
attributed to their afliftance.
yUtaburf^

Disco'mfort.

n. j:

Uneafinefs

forrow

gloom

that reveals or difcovers.

wife was carrying him, and had fcarcepalfcd a day
without giving her the dlfciflir.e of the ftrap.
2.

and

handled.

T^lor.

difchfttre

of

the

king's

mind,

To educate

;

In folitude there is nolonly dij'ccmfirl, but weak-

To grieve

to fadden ; to dejeft.
;
Her champion went away difcjmforted as much
'

^^„„.

as difcomftted.

tares we would make ufeful and good for fome-

fudden miraculous eruptions and di/c/ujions of light,
to prevent the art of the lanthorn-maker.

They were with care prepared and difciptincd
for conlirmation, which they could not arrive at
till they were found, upon examination, to have

made a

fufiicieat progrefs in

AJdifim en the Chrijjian Relighn.

Chriftianit)-.

2.

the knowledge of

To regulate

of llaining.
z. Change of colour ;

ftain ; die.
In a depravation of the humours from a found

to keep in order.
They look to ui, as we fliould judge of an army

o( •KeU-Jifciflhud foldiers at a difiance.
Dcrbam'i Aflrt-Theologj,
_
puniih ; to corred ; tochaftife.
3.

To
4. To advance by inftrufUon.

(late to what the phyficians call

To DISCO'LOUR. 'V. a. [decoloro, Lat.]

To change from the natural hue; to ftain.

To Discla'im. i». a. [Jit andr/a/w.] To
difown ; to deny any knowledge of; to
retrad any union with; to abrogate;

\a thee

:

a tayter made thee.

all

(hare

Stair^. King Lear.

He call* the gods to witnefs their offence

j

Vifclnimi the war, alierts his innocence.

Drydtn't /Eniid.

We fiiid our Lord, on all occafions, difc^iming
all pretenfions to a temporal kingdom.

Rcgfs,

'

Very few, among thofe who profefs themfelves
Chriftians, difchm

M concern

for their fouls, dif-

nounces.

A plea containing an exprefi

denial or refufal.

Co^vell.

Latin ; dis

and 4lo/t.'\

To uncover ; to produce from a flate of
lacitancy to open view.
In this deep quiet, from what fource unknown.
Thole feeds of fire their fatal birth difihfe

1.

Sufpicions, and fantadical furmifc,

;

And fiift few fcatt'ring fparks about were blown,

Big with the flames that to our piin rofe.

is apt to difadcur and pervert the objcft. Add. Sfrfi.

Have a care left fome beloved notion, or fome
darling fcience, fo prevail over your mind as to difeelour all your ideas.

To

ffaits.

DISCO'MFIT. IF. <j. [de/co«j!re. Fr.

from difconjigere,
Lat.] To defeat ; to conquer ; to vanquilh ; to overpower ; to fubdue ; to

fionfiggen, Ital. as

if

Jofliua diftomjijrd Amalck and his people w'ith

the edge of the fword.

Excdtn.

He, fugitive, dedin'd fuperior ftrength

The <faeUi being fcrokeh, ftnjtk off, and jont^

;

Difiomjitid, purfued, in the fad cfaace

Ten thoufjnJ ignnjninious fall.

Philips.

While my gallant countrymen

are employed in

piiil'uing rebels hi\( dijanifitrd through the confcioufncfs of their guilt, I rtiall improic thofe viftorics

to the good of my fellow

I'ubjeiJls.

Addifon.

Dijco'mfit. «./ [from the verb.] Defeat ; rout ; overthrow.
Fly you muft : incurable difccmfit
Reigns in the hearts of all our prefent party.

Dryd.

Then earth and ocean various forms difcl^fe.

Dcr.hifiu
Neitlicr do I difcommefid the lofty ftyle in tragedy,

Vifcakunng all (he view'd.
Dryden.
He who looks upon the foul through its outward

Fight againll that monftrous rebel, Cade,
Whom, fm>e, Hward to be dlfcamfittd. Shahfl>.

Rogert.

wardnefs to die.
Hooker,
Now you will all be wits ; and he, I pray,
And you, that difctmmtnd it, mend the play.

And jealoufy, with jaundice in her eyes,

own the authority, or renounce the expcftations,

V'o DucLo'jE. v. a. {M/cluJc,

folutely approve, cither v/illingnefs to live, or for^

rtmfU.

of the gofpel.

[Inlaw.]

tion with difapprobation.

Drink water, eitherpare, or but difctUuredWah

beat ; to overthrow.

Discla'imer. n.f. [(torn di/c'aim.]
1. One that difclaims, difowns, gr re2.

To Discomme'nb. <v. a. [Jit and co»i'
mend.] To blame ; to cenfure ; to me«^
Abfolutcly we cannot difccmmendi we cannot ab-

aftions, fees it through a deceitful medium, which

to renounce.
nature difcUi'mi

Behind the globe, it lights the lower world t Siak.
2, That caufes fadnefsi
What did that help poor Dorus, whofe evcj
could carry unto him no other news but </iTco»^f.
'
able ?
aifimy ,

Shake//,. King John.

,

"•^'f-

Miltim.

!

Difcomfortaile eoufin, know'ft thou Dot

That when the fearching eye of Heav'n is hid

Many a widow's hufljand groveling lies,
Coldly embracing xhe difcobur' d eitxh.
.

From Shadowy t)pes to truth, from fleih to fpirit.

That is melancholy and refufes com»
fort.

.

Up to a better covenant, difciflin'd

You cowardly rafcnl

forr]
1.

!

by a general name

of a cacochymy, fpots and dyccloraliins of the (kin
are ligns of weak fibres.
Arbuibnsi.

The law appear'd imperfeO, and but giv'n
With purpofe to refign them in full time

More.

Sbakeffetre't Julius C<efar,

Disco'mfortable. adj. [from di.'cvn-

Discolora'tio.v. n.f. [from di/rolour.]
I. The aft of changing the colour; the adl

;

Sidn.y,

His funeral fliall not be in our camp,
Leit it difiomforl us.

what.

l^Kie.

SMb.

To Disco'mfort. v. a. [from the noun.]

fcvercly

Judge what a ridiculous thing it were, that the
continued Ihadow of the earth fliould be broken by

very young, and difcif.'m by limes thofe other crea-

Hnker.

^

Dijcomfcrt guides my tongue,

iion.

to inftrufl ; to bring up.

We are wife enough to begin when they arc

>

And bids me fpeak of nothing but defpair. Shai,

yi Di'sciPMNE. f. a. [from the noun.] DiscLu'siON. n.f. [di/clu/us, Lit.] Emif1.

and com/on.)
melancholy f

ncfs alfo.

After (o happy a marriage between the king and
her daughter, flic was, upon a fuddcn mutability

the laborious arts of fatting and exterior difcifl'me
at glory without any other arms but

;

difcmfert.

Adl of revealing any thing fecret.

thole of love.

[dii

church, to the end they might fuftaia it without

Difcovery ; produftion into view.
The producing of cold is a thing very worthy

he reaches

;

This himfelf did forefce, .-ind therefore armed h;i

the inijuifition, both for the ufe and dijik/ufe of
caufes.
£aci„.
_

AJJijin's Sfiflalir.

7. External mortification.
The love of God makes a man chade without

Government cf the Tongue.

.

He fent hij angels to fight for his p.-op|e ; and

If I difihyfe toy paflion.

Our friendfhip's at an end ; if I conceal it,
The world will call me falfc.
Mdifins Cats.
DiscLo'sER. n.y; [from di/chfe.'] One

1.

'^haleffi.

Behold, every man's fword wis againft his fellow,
and there was a very great df omfiure.
i Sam.
What a defeat and dijcomfiture is irto a man,
when he somes to ufe this we Jith, to find it all falfd

6. Punifhment j chaftifement ; csrreSion. DiSCLo'suRE. n.f. [from di/c/o/e.]

A lively col>ler kicked and fpurrcd while his

of battle ; rout ; ruin i

lofs

overthrow.

There may be a reconciliation, except for upbraiding, or pride, or di/chjrg of fecrets, or a treacherous wound ; for from thefe things every friend

beft Jifcifiint, are yet obliged to be conftantly on

5.

;

fecret.

The moft pej^feft, who have their pafllons in the
Rigcr:.

Dnco'MriTuiiB. »./. [from difcomfif.\

is

fun dijclojcth them.

A (late of fubjedion.
their guird.

H^nedward.

to open.

reported by the ancient*, thjt the oftrich
layeth her eggs under fand, where the heat of the

Drjden.

4.

DIS

Sbahff'eare.

which is naturally pompous and magnificent.

Drjd^.

D

CO M M e'n d a b l e adj. [from di/commend.] Blameable ; cenfurable ; deferv-

I

s

.

ing blame.
I'ufillanimity is, according to Ariftotle's mora.
lity, a vice very dijtommendable.

commendable.]

Blamcablenefs ; liable-

nefs to cenfure.

Diit,

D1SC0.VIMEN0 a'tion. n.f. [from difcommend.]

filame; reproach; cenfure.

Tuily alTigns three motions, whereby, without
any difcommendation, a man might be drawn to become an accufcr of others.
AyU^ts Tir:rggn.

Disco mme'nder. n.f. [ from di/conm.'nd. ]
One that difcommends a difpraifer.
To D s c o M M o'n E <v. a. [</r'i and eommtie,
;

I

.

Fr.]

To put to inconvenience ; to mo-"

left ;

to incommode.

Discommo'dious. adj. [from Ji/ccmmtd/. ]
Inconvenient ; troiiblefome ; uiipleaftng.
So many thoufand foldieis, unfit ior any labour^
or other trade, muft cither feck fervlce and cna-

pbymcnt abroad, which may

be dangerous ; Or
themfelves here at horn-:, wiiiih miy

Dagon muft ftoop, and ftiall ere long receive
Such a dif(>n:Jit, as fliall quite dcfpoilhim

elfe employ

Of all thefe bobited trophies,

be Ji/eimirudioust

Milun's AgimJIes.

Ayliffe's Purergon,

DiS COM Me'nD ABLE NESS. n.f. [flOaxdif-

.'sftnjer'i State of Ireland.

3

Y »

Dirc*v-

'

D

D I S

I

D I S

S

The effeft of

Disco'Mmo'dit V. »./. [from Ji/ttmmedi.]

Di»co'nsoi.atenb»s. »./ [from difnn-

cover pofleflion by law.

hurt ;

The ftatc of being ciifconfulate.
Disconte'nt. n./. [ dis and content. ]
Want of content ; uaeafinefs at the pre-

difconlinuame of plea is, that the inftance may not be taken up again, but

Inconvenience ;

difadvanuge ;

jnifchief.

Wtfrealcnowof ufury,how xht tUfcemimiCuits of

folate. '\

OMiy be beft avoided, and the commoditiet retiined or how, in the balance ofcommoditlea and
J^itmrntdiiui, the (jualities of ufury are to be recon:

I

being in health, the (hip Oiould pf rifti.
liaytoard.

To DISCOMPO'SE. -v. fi.

[

decompojtr,

To djforder

Disconte'nt.
Uneafy

to unfettle.

To

and

and

di/ccntent ;

to

To lofe the cohefion of parts

out, and yet fo as not to di/emtiitue orfoifake their

haughty

own body.

Shaktfftare.

cuftom or right.

'

Thyfelf (halt difcentinue from thine heritage th«t
gave tliee, and I will caufe thee Co ferve thine
enemies.
Jtr,
I

Uneafy ; cheerlefs ; male-

TV Disconti'nue. -v. a.
Let us know

1.

What will tie up your difconienttd fword.

Shakeff.

Thel'c are, beyond comparifon, the two greateft
world ; a difeafed body, and a dijcon.

evils in this

tented mind.

Tilimfon.

The goddefs, with a difcmtented air,

Diforder ; perturbation.

He threw himfelf upon his bed, lamentingwith
much palTion, and with abundance of tears ; and
continued in this melincholick dijcmifojure of

Seems to rejeA him, though (be grants his pray'r.
fofe.

Disconte'ntedneis. tt,/. [horn di/con-

CJartndon.

.

tented.]

To Disconce'rt. f. a. [dii and co/icert.]

Uneafinefs j want of eafe ; dif-

To leave off ; to ceafe any praftice or
habit.
Twenty puny lyes I'll tell,
That men (hall fwear I've difcentinufd fchool
Above a twelvemonth.
Shakefpuire.
Examine thy cuftomi of diet, lleep, exercife,

apparel, and the like ; and try, in any thou (halt
judge hurtful, to di/conrinte it by little and little |
but fo, as if thou find any inconvenience by the
change, thou come back to it again.
Baetn,

A beautiful had of Alexander the Creat calls

You need not provoke their fpirits by outrajjes

There is that property, in all letters, of aptnefs
to be conjoined in fyllables and wordS) through

up his face to heaven with a noble air of grief, or
dijcimtentednefs, in his looks.
AddiJonU Tmvels.

a^carelefj gefture, a word, or a look, is enough to
Coilnr.

the voluble motions of tlic organs from one (top
or figure to another, that they modify and difcriminate the roice« without appearing to difKntinue
Hoider^s Element: if S^eeb*
it.

JiJcMcm them.

Disconte ntment. »./. [itom difcoa2. To break a fcheme ; to defeat a matcHt.l The ftate of being difcontented
chination.

uneafinefs.
Thefe arc tlie vices that fill them with genera)
difcontentmentt as though the bofom of that famous church, wherein they live, were more noifome thab any dungeon.
Hsoker,
The politick and artificial nouiilhing and entertaining of hopes, and carrying men from hopes
to hopes, is one of the beft antidotes againft the

Disconfo'rmity. «./. [dii and conformity.'\
Want of agreement j inconfiftency.
Lyes arifc from errodr and mi(take, or malice,
and forgery ; they confift in the difagreement and
Ji/conformiiy betwixt the fpeech and the conception
of the mind, or the conceptions of the mind and
the things themfclves, or the fpeech and the
Unktuill o« Pnmdetice.
things.

"DisconGKv'iTY.n./. [dii and congruily.']
Difagreement ; inconfiflency.

Void of comfort ; hcpelcfs ; forrowful ;
melancholy.

Mittm.
Dlfmifs them ivit diftanjolati.
The ladies and the knightr , no (helter nigh,
wan,
Anti
wet,
di/cvtijolarr
Were dropping
Afid through their thin array receiv'd the rain.
Drydtn.
The moon reflets the funbeams to us, and fo,
hy Ulutninating the air, takes away in fome meafutc the dijctiifi/aii darkocfs of our winter nights.
R*y.

Di«co'nsolatbi.y. adv. [from diftenjoId a difconfolatc manner ;. comtatt.'\
»

[from

dtfcon-

DiscON ve'niencb. n.f. [dis and convt#;V»ff.] Incongruity; difagreement; op-

pofttion of nature.
Fear arifeth many times out of natural antipa«
thics of nature ; but, in thcfc di/convenienees of na-

ruption.

ture, deliberation bath no place at all.

The (lillicidcs of water, if there be enough to
follow, will draw themfclves

Bramhairi Anftiiir te Hoiiet.

into a fmall thread,

bccaufe they will not difcontinue j but if there le
no remedy, then they caA thcmfelves into round
drops, which is the figure that favcth the body

DI'SCORD. n./. [dijcordia, Latin.]
1.

moll from diftontmuitnce. Bacon i Natural hijtory.
Stak.

\{ patiently thy bidding they obey,

fortlcfsly.

f.

[In the common law.]
An interruption or breaking off; as difcontinuance
of pofleflion, or difcoiitinuance of procefs. The effeft of difccnttnuance of poffcfilon is, that a m.in may not enter upon his own land or tenement alienated,
whatfoevcr his right Be unto it, or by
his owa authority ; but mull feck to re-

Difagreement ; oppofition ; mutual anger ; reciprocal oppugnancy.
Sec what a fcourge is laid upon your hate.

2. CefTation ; intermiflion.
Let us conlider whctl)er our approaches to him
are fwcet and refrelhing, and if we arc xmcafy
under any long difccntimuance of our ctinvcrf.ition
with htm.
jitterbury.

3.

and conti-

That difconlinuit] of parts is the principal cauft
of the opacity of bridles, will appear by confidering
that opaque fubftances became tranfparent bv (itling their pores with any fubiUnce of equal, or »1raoft equal, deofity with their parts.
Newta,

union of one part with another ; dif-

See CalTuis all difcerf&faU,

With Plitdarui his bondman, on this hilU

ti,

[dis

Difunity of parts ; want of co-'

hefion.

Want of cohefion of parts ; want of

1

Haiti Origin if Maniind^

and ctn/ele.]

nuity.]

tinxe. ]

gruiiy of the one to the other.

[dis

-

Disco ntinu'ity. n.f.

Baeor.

^oMoti oi dijtontentmenci,

Disconti'nu ANCE.

\ There is want of capacity in the thing, to fuftain fuch a duration, from the intrinfical dijccn-

Disco'nsol ATR. adj.

To break off; to interrupt.

2,

fatisfadion.

To unfettle the mind ; to difcompofe.

Bacon.

To lofe an eftabliflied or prefcriptive

2.

volent.

;

Disk:ompo'sure. «./ [from difcompo/e.']

to fuffer

All bodies, ductile and tenfile, as metals, that
be drawn into v.'ires ; wool and tow, that
will be drawn into yarn, cr thread ; have in them
the appetite of not dijccnnnuim . llrong, which

Disconte'nted. participial adj. [from
difcontent.\

;

will

Drydcn.

to difcard : not in ufe.
Though he was a dark prince, and infinitely
fofpicious, he never put down or Jlj'comfcffd a
Bccon.
counfdlor or near feivjnt.

[difcontinuer,

maketh them follow the force tiiat pullcth them
his

The difiemtrftJ now are only they
Whofe crimes before did your juft caufc betray.

Drydeti.

n.

feparation or difruption of fubftance.

make uneafy at the

I know a difc anient id %cnt.\tnM,
Whofe humble means match not

Nt-vvtcn.
1).

French.]
1

prefent ftate.

der snd di/com^cf; but few to pleafe them. S-wi/i,

1.

mercury falls.

To DisconTi'nue.

nature circumfpeA

and

to fret ; to vex.

Men, who po(refs all the advantages of life, are
in a ftate where there are many accidents to difor-

mind miny days.

dlfcountenanced

fpirit.

Yo'jr peace of mind by rage to dlfcomfoft.

5. To difplace

(low,

To diffatisfy ;

No more, dear mother: ill in dcith It (hows,
;

diflatif-

Haytvard.

perturbation.

To offend

the prefent Aate ;

To Disconte'nt. v. a. [from the noun.]

To

4.

content.']

[dis

thofe the earl tingled as /itteli for bis purpofe.

ruffle ; to diforder.
a.
Now Betty from her nialter's bed had flown.
Siv'ift.
And fofdy ftole to rfi/fcm^/ir her own.
ditturb the temper ; to agitate by

3.

at

and

adj.

They were of their own

Clttrenioii.

Upon any diftentinuatkn of parts, made cither
by bubbles, or by (hakjng the glafs, the whole

Pcft.

The debate upon tlie fdf-di-nying ordinance
had raifed many jealoulies, and dijiimpojul the
••nfidtnce that had fonnerly been between many
of them.

tion.

She figh'd, not that tbey (lay'd, but that (he went.

ficd.
;

breach
of union of parts ; difruption ; fepara-

Not that their pleafures caus'd her dijccnieni.

Fr.]
1 .

tinue.] Difruption of continuity ;

Shuktjfcare.

It is better that a ftip (houM be prefcrved with
feme dijccamadity to the fjilots, than that, tlic
fai ors

Cmiv//.

Discontinu a'tion. n./. [from di/ccn-

fee your brows fall of difcstittnt^

Your hearts of forrows, and your eyes of tears.

*«''"'•

ciled.

by a new writ to begin the fuit afrelh.'

fent llatc.

it

That heav'n finds means to kill your joys with
love

!

And I, for winking at your difcords t»o.
Have loll a brace of kinfmcn.
Sbakeffcare' 1 Renue and Juliet.

He is a falfe witnefs that fpeaketh lies, and that
fowcth difeord among brethren.
2.

Proverit.

Difference or contmriety of qualities,
particularly of founds.

Take but degree awjy, untune that ftrlng,
Atid hark what dijcjrd follows ; each thing meet*
Shc-<LeJ'j>, Trcil. ard Cre^
In lorrc oppugnar.cy.
Dife^fJt like that, of mufic's various parts,
D./ierd that makes the harmony of hearts;
Difetrd,

DIS

D 1 S
mFcsri, that only this Jifput* Uiall bring,

To make known

4.

Wlio bed <hall Uve the d»rfte aad fcrve the king.

D I S

not to difguife ; to

;

reveal.

Drydi-ri.

We will pafs over unto thofe men, and we will

All haturt il but art unknown to thee
All ch«nee, ^jfeftion which ttioa tanft not fce
't imderftood }
All dljccrd, harmony
Tope.
All partial ev-1, uni^crfal good.

Ijn. xiv. 8.

Sounds not of themfelves
[In raufic]
pleafing, but neceffary to be mixed wi»li

3.

(/i/cwa- ourfelves unto tlicm.

Eve, who unfeen
Yet all had heard, with audible lament
5.

It is found alone that doth Immediately and in-

moft manifefl in
for
niufic, and concords and difc-.rjt in mufic
iharp
or fljt, if they
all founds, whether they be
be fweet, hjve a roundncfs and equality ; and if
is

To deteft

To

8.

Shaiefp.
Some to difcovtr illands far away,
Another part in fquadrons bend their march
On bold adventure, to difiover wide

To

That difmal world.

Milton.

'

To exhibit to the view.

9.

(late to which

dijcavery ought to be made as late as pofiible.
Stv'ift.

To Discou'nsel.

To difTuade

Which to his eye difmvert unaware
The goodly pr«fpedi of fome foreign land,

inconfiftency.
\difcotdans,

Ladn.]

His whole intention was, to buy a certain quanof copper money from Wood, at a large difSivift,
eount, and fell tnem as well as he could.

My father's, mother's, brother's death 1 pardon
My prayers and penance (hall dijcount for thefe.

•

Vryden*

The farmers, fpitefully combin'd,

Not light, but rather datkncfj vifible,

i^rce him to take his tithes in kind ;

Setv'd only to difiover fights of woe.

And Parvifol dtfcounis arrears
By bills for taxes and repairs.

Milton.

Disco'vERABLE. adj. [frOTli di/cover.]
That which may be found out.
wltli the common and terrellrial matter, as not to
be difioverablety human indufti^ ; or, \< dijcover-

and fcatttrrt amongft the crafler
matter, can never ai feparated.
fVood'jiard^s Nalur^l Hifiory.
Revelation may alTert ^vo things to he joined,
whofe conneftion or agreement is not difioveraih

They were deceived ty Satan, and that not in
an invinble fitnation, but in an open and difioverable apparition, that is, in the form of a ferpent.
Broti'n't Vulgar Errours.
It is concluded by afttonomers, that the atmofphere of the moon hath no clouds nor rains, but
a perpetuil-and uniform fercnity ; bccaufe no-

.

itfelf.

1. In difagreement with another.
mufical inftrumcnt being
Two ftrings of
I

the ear at the fame time as to fenfe, yield a found
di^ering- from cither of them, and as it wert
compounded of both ; infomuch, that if they be

tuned, though Cdch of them ftruck
apart would yield -a pleating found, yet being
ftruck together they nuke a harlhand troublcfom':
BoyJi on Colours,
noife.

Jifardanriy

Apparent ; expofed to view.

2.

Disco'RDANTLY.<j(f'i/.[ ftom difcordant. ]
Inconfiftently ; in difagreement with
1

making two noifes that arrive at

thing dijeoverahle in the liinar furface is ever covered and abfcondcd by the interpolition of any
Benlley.
cloodi or mills.

jDisco'vERER. fi.f. [from difcinier.'\

One that finds any thing not known

\\.

before ; a finder out.
Jf more be found out, they will not recompcnfe

I'eeyifVily ; in a contradiftious manner.

3.

Te Disco'vBR. V, a. [dhowvrir, French )
dis and fif^r..]

T«

I.

light;

(hew ;

to difclofe ;

to

bring to

the diftovtrer'i pain3, but will be fitter Xa be cart
Holder,
out.
Places receive appellations, according to the language of the difiovirir, from obfervatjons made

The Cape of Good Hope was doubled in thofe
early times ; and the Portugucfc wcic notthe firft
ylrhttthinit on Coint.
dijio-vertrs of that navigiition.
An old miidcH gentlev/oman is the grcatcfl dijeoverir of j jdjmentb ; (he can tell you what fin it

The cover of the coach wa? made with fuch
joints, that as they might, to avoid the weather,

pnll

it op clofe, fo

they mifht put ra;h end down,

and remain as difcMjtred a. id opcn-fightcjj as on

was (hat fei fuch a man'i> houfe on fire.

Sidney •

hor/eback.

Mdijon's SpiElator,

Co draw a{ide the cartaini, and difcvt'ir
Tnc fevtial cafketsto this noble prince. Shukejf.
He dift<niirtib deep things out of darkncl:, and

z.

'J-'h, xii.

To (hew

;

22.

not to IheHer ; to cxpofe.

And now will 1 dijcner l;er Uwdncfs.

Hfjra.

Law can dijt;'jir fin, but not remuve.

M.llon.

A fcout

one who ^is put to dcfcry the
pollure or number of an enemy ; fpe;

culator.
Here tland, my lords, and fend dijiorvtrtrs forth.
iihahjp.
To kn lA the numbcis of our rncmics.

bringeth out to light the fliadow of deiitb.

3.

Bncme.

upon the people.

to make vilible.

TocKpofe to view.

3.

IValls.

by reafon.

Halt's OHgil! of MiinHrd.

together,

[dis

and

countenance,']

That mineral matter, which is fo intermixed

Hither confcirnce is ta be referred ; if by a comparifon »f things done with the rule there be a
confonancy, then follow? the fcntence of approbation J it difcordant from it, the fentcnce of con-

ftruclc'

Stvi/t.

To Discou'ntenance. v. a.

1

IncongTuous ; not conformable.

demnation.

;

And beg of heav'n to charge the bill on mc.

Miitsn.

To difcourage by cold treatment.

1

Unwilling they wt-re to dijcountenance any man
Clarcndm*
who was willing to ferve them.
The truly upright judge will always countenance

able, dilfiifed

3.

give contrary advice..

tity

With glift'ring fpires and battlements adorn'd.

i, Oppofite ; contrarious.
The di/ccrdani attraction of fome wandering
comets would certainly difordcr the revolutions
of the planets, if they approach? J too near th«n.

to

a. [dis and coun/eL]

Obfolete.
But him that palmer from that vanity
Spenfer.
With temperate advice difaunftlkd.
Di'scouNT. n.f. \_dis zxiA count. 1 The
fum refunded in a bargain.

Firll feen, or fome renown'd metropolis

1, Inconfiftent ; at variance with itfelf.
Myrrlia was joy'd the welcome news to hear.
Bur, clogg'd with guilt, the jiy was unfincete;
So various, fo d'ljcvrdant is the mind,
That in our will a different will we find. Drydtn.

;

'V.

To Discou'nt. "t/. «. [from the noun.]
To count back j to pay back again.

Some high climbing hill.

Disco'rdance. 7 «./. [from di/cord.]
Disco'rdancy. J Difagreeraenti oppo-

Soutb.

fay fomcthing of the
the w;ir hath reduced us j fuch a

It would be neceffary to

So of things. The Germans di/covered printing and gunpowder.

SJardmg with the other, and making a confufion.

3)ico'r.uant. adj.

clear difcoveries of the nexU

known

before.

iippcared amiable by the light o^

Things that

this world, appear n{ a different odious hue in th*-

Milton.

things or places not

find

And I (hould be obfcur'd. Sh^k, Merch.ofFcmtf^
"

to find though concealed
Up he ftarts,

Man with ftrength and free will arm'd
Complete, to hi^vedifiover'd and repuls'd
Whatever wiles of foe or fceming friend. Milton.

difagree ; -not to fuit with.
Sounds do diftorb and alter the "Sne th« other ;
fometimcs the-onc drcnA^iirg the other, and mailing
it not heard ; fomeiimes the one jarring and

fition ;

;

Why 'tis an office of <///r(«'cry, love.

Pope's Letters.

Djfctvtr'd and furpris'd.

Sbjkefptare,

Sacin.

What, muft I hold a candle to my fhamc ?
They in themfelves, good footh, are too, too lighf.

_

_

my knowledge of his miftake.
7.

they be harfli, are unequal : for a difcard itfelf is
but a harflinefi of divers founiJs meeting. BacM.
It is the larlc that linjS fo out of tune.
Straining harfli Ji cor</; and unplcafing (harps.

To Di'scoRD. -v .n. idi/cordo, Latin.]

fecret.

To

^^s6. To find out ; to obtain information.
He (bail never, by any alteration in me, rlifccmrr

•.

Hov/doth raufic amaze us, when of difcordi ihe
Ptjcbam.
maketh the fweeteft harmony

Beyond the year, and out of heaven's highw./.,

They make i/i/fiwer<fj where they fee no fun.
Dry den.
2. The aft of revealing or difclofing any

MUlon.
Difcmir'd from the place of her retire.
ken ; to efpy.
When we had dijuvercd Cyprus, we left it on
the left hand.

others.
torporeally affeft moft i this

Of all who
Than the bold Engllfh none more tame hive W"
fince have us'd the open (ia.

[ftom dt/coier,']
The ac^ of finding any thing hidden.

^Disco'vERV.
I.

II. /.

rig',",

and iHfisuntinmce wrong.

To abafh

Atterburj,

to put to Ihame.
Wifdom, in difcourfe with her,

2.

;

Lofes difictititenanc'd, and like folly (hewi. Milton.'
He came, and with him Eve, more loth, tho' firft
To offend j difcountenanc'd both and difeompos'd.

MiJtmt

How would one look from his majeftic brow,
Seated as on the top of virtue's hill,
Difiouni' nance her defpis'd

Milton;

'.

Discou'nte N AN CE. ti./. [dis and countenance.] Cold treatment ; unfavourable

afped ; unfriendly regard.
He thought a little dijcouiitenance upon thofe per-

fons would fupprefs that fpirit.

Clarendon.

All accidental misfortunes, how inevitable foever, were (lill attended with very apparent dif'

countenanee.

Clarendon,

In expeftation of the hour of judgment, he patiently bears all the difficulties of duty, and the
difcouritcnance he meets with from a wicked' and
'Rogeis.
prophanc world.

Discoo'ntenancbr. «./. [from di/caantenance.] One that difcourages by cold
treatment;

one that depreiTes by un-

friendly regard.

Rumours of fcandal and murmurs againlt the
king, and his government, taxed him f r a great
taxer of his people, and dijcountenancer of his noBacon.
bility.

To

DISCOU'RAGE.

i;.

a.

[decourager,

Fr. dis and courage ]
I. To dcprefs ; to deprive of confidence ;
to dejctl ; to daftardiz.e.
I might neitlier encourage the rebels infolence,
not difiouraio Che pto;e(lant5 loyalty and patience.

K.nit Charles.

*

The

D I S
rtifonable a prcfuniftinn.

To deter

>.

Of

The general maxims we an dijccurjlng of are not
known to children, ideots, and a great part of

Whtrefore dijnurage ye the lieart of ihe children
of ICmel/i-cm going over into the laud ?
3.
It

is irregularly ufcd by Temfte with
before the following word.

them yourfclf, or diftt/uroge
them (0 Oaywitli you, by ufing them ill. ttmfh.

Brutes do want that quick dijcmrjirg power.
Daviet.

unlefs )ru deltroy

difcoHrage.'\

One that imprefTes difitdence and ter-

nourable.
Vou had left unfcen a wonderful piece of work,
which not to hive been Ueft withal, vrould hav«
dijiredilcd you.

a d lead di/credili Wit travels, who returns the fame

man he went.

And let us there at large diJcosirCe our fortunes.

towjgrrt of youth, arc like old trees, which, being
pill bfitina themfelves, will futi'crno young planta
ro fiouriih

beneath them.

Pci^e.

DlSCOtj'R.ACEMENT, K. /. [from

Discou'rser. n.f. [from di/cour/e.']

1 he aft of deterring, or deprefling hope.
Determent ; that which deters from

1

any thing

Amongft other impediments of any inventions,

mHim.
of incitements to virtue,

anti

dhicuragtments from

vice.

Swift.

The caufe of deprcffion, or fear

3.

to, lefs

:

with

/.

yi/cours, French

•

D.;/"«i/r/iWf, or intuitive ;

name it reafon.
Converfation ; mutual

if we

Discou'rtesy. n./.

of

language
talk.
He waxeth wifcr thanhimfclf, more by an hour's

teous.'\

by a day's meditation.

Bjibn.

In thy dtjcottfjey if tl^c)u defirc to pleafe.
All fuch is courteous, ufcful, new, or witty ;
Ufefulnefs comes by labour, witbyeale,
Courtefy grows in court, news in the city. Hirhcrt,
The vantjuifli'd party with the vidlors join'd,.
Nor wanted fwcet dij'ceurft, the banquet of the
mind.
J)rydcn,

A treatife

4.

;

J

To converfe

.

to talk ; to relate.
Hr,w wi-rt thou handled, lieing prifonci >
Slakeff.

Poets lofe half the praifc they fhould have got.
Could it be known what they dijtrutly blot. WalUr.
is

Scutt.

_

Profit fprings from hufks Jifcrett'yui'd. Fhilipt.
The duUeft brain, if gently ftirr'd.

Perhaps may waken to a humming bird ;

The mod reclufe, difcrectly open'd, find

Congenial objeCl In the cockle kind. Fvfe'sDtin.

Discree'tness.
tion.

;

tin.]

to their intellectuals, they fly to feveral
pitiful objections and cavils.
Scut^.
'Tis the duty of every chriliian to be concerned

Difl^erence ;

wherein all our after reafonirgs are founded.
Lcrd Digiy la K, D:giy.
Di'scrbpant. adj. [di/cnpans, Latin.}

Different ; difagreeing ; contrary.

Ja Discre'te.

lb feparate

;

-v.

Poft.

To deprive of credibility
trufted.

;

to make not

[di/cretus,

Latin.]

As for its diaphaneity,

it

enjoyeth that

moA

emin^tly j as^ving its earthly and falinous parts
fo exafliy refolved, that its body is left imporous,

and not difcrtudhy atomical terminations. Broviit*
I.

[dt'creditcr, Fr.J

a.

to difcontiuue.

for the reputation or diftreJit his life may bring on

Rcgtrs,
Alas, the Imall difcredit of a bribe
Scarce hurts thclawycr, but undoes the fcribe.

dif-

Oiverlity of cdocatitm, and dijirepancy of thofe
principles wherewith men are at firft imbued, and

Discre'te. adj.

hiS protcflion.

contrariety ;

agreement.

ftalc, trite,

Discre'dit. f. a.

difcreet.)

DI'SCREPANCE. n.f. [di/crefaKtia, La-

difcn'dit

rij

[from

n.f.

The quality of being difcreet ; difcre--

That they may quit their morals without any

I.

The labour of obedience, loyalty, and fubjeClion,
no mote but for a man honelily and difcrectly la

fit dill.

work, but be la^y, and then certify over their
country to the dijcrtdit of a plantation.
Baan.

;

Dij*i0rji, I pr'y thee, on this turret's top.

dently ; cautioufly ; circumfpeftly.

Idlers will ever live like rogues, and not fall to

Pif,t'l ddyl/^y.

Dwcou'rse. rv. n. [from the noun.

Ttcmfn.

Ducree'tl V. ad-v, [from di/ci-ee/.] Pru-

Uncivilly ; rudely.

reproach ; lower degree of
infamy ; difgrace ; impnt.itionof a fault.
Had 1 been the iindcr-outof this fecret, it would
not have relifticd among my other dijcredtts. Sbok.

The dificurfc here is about ideas, which, he fays,
ire real things, and feen in God.
Lacitc.
Klutaich, in his rfi/roar/i upon garrulity, commends the fidelity of the companions of Ulyflcs.
Tfl

JVifemnn.

DISCRET)IT, n.f. [decredUer, French.]

a dinertation either written

Mdijon's SfcH.

Not well au-

!

putney.

or uttered.

Derbam.

the witty, nor tlrf

Difcreet.

flowers, fuch as the flos foils, l^c.

3. Effufion of language ; fpeech.
Topical and fuperAeial arguments, of which
there is ftoie to be found on both fides, Ailing the
head with variety of thoughts, and the mouth with
copious dijuuijt, Icrve only to amufe the underLm-ir.
llanding and entertain company.

man, not

thorifed.
Dear youth, by fortune favour'd, but by los'e,
Alas not favour'd lefs, be ftiU as now

and courte/y.'\
aft of difrefpeft.

Di'scous. adj. [from <///?«/, Lat.] Broad;
flat ; wide. Ufed by botanilh to denote
the middle, plain, and flat part of fome

Ignominy

the difcrttr

Modeft ; not^forward.

\_dis

him a Jifcouriejy.

is

and gives meafures to fociety.
2.

Discou rteously. ad-v. [from difcour-

;

dijCiurJe, than

Then to old age maturity (he gave.

Incivility ; rudenefs ;
As if chearfulncfs had been tedioufnefs, and
good entertainment had been turned to difcourtefy,
he would ever get himfclf alone.
Sidny.
Be calm in arguing ; for fiercenefs makes
Error a fault, and truth difceurttfy.
Herheri,
He made me vilits, maundering as if I had done

Clar.vilU.

intercourfe

{^dis indcourleous.]

Uncivil ; uncomplaifant ; defcftive in
good manners.
He refolvedtounhorfethe firft difinrtKus knight
he fiiould meet.
Mitieux's Don fixate.

Sure be that made us with fiich large dijcsurft,
Looking before and .'sftcr, gave us not
That capability and godlike realoa
Shahfpeare.
To ruft in us unus'd.
The a£l of the mind which conne^s propofitions, and deduccth conclufions from them, the
fchools call dijccurfc ; and we Ibail not mifcall it,

2.

«fljr'.

Siaktff,

To elder years to be d'tjcrcu and grave.
learned, nor the brave, who guides the converfatioRy

Milltn.

Thccpic is every where interlaced with dialogue,
Drydcfi on Dravratic Poffy.
OT difc:ur/i-ve Cccncu

it

'.^jcher.

More than you doubt the charge of 't.

di/i:ourfe

Containing dialogue ; interlocutory.

2.

fytitgiFtt.

Lefs fearful than difcn-et.

You love the fundamental pattof ftate.

It

Is ofteii yours, the latter is moil ours.

The aft of the underftanding, by which Discou RTEOiiS.
pafles from premifes to coniequences.
By reaibn of that original weaknels in the inftn.merts, without which the underftanding part
is not able in this world by difcmirfi to work, the
•very conceit of painfulnefs is a bridle to ftay us.

Honell, difcrtet, quiet, and godly learned men,
will not be withdrawn by you.

The foul

difcur/us, Latin.]
1.

circumfpcft ; cautions ; fo;
not rafh ; not precipitant ; not
carclefs ; not hardily adventurous.
ber ;

Reafon receives, and reafon is her being,

'fo thincs we would have them learn, the great
and only dijauragcmtnt is, tliat they are called to

».

Prudent

1

Faffing by intermediate Heps from premifes to confequences.

1.

not to hold

DISCRE'ET. adj. [di/cret, French.]

Discou'rsive. <7i^". [from difc<iurfe.'\

properly.

DIScbu'RSE.

a diflertator.

;

certain.

Bro-wn.
angry at our narrower explorations.
But it feems to me, that fuch difcourfers do reafon upon fliort views, and a very moderate compafi
Sivi/t.
of thought.

none of the mtstntft difrourag/Tncrts, that they
ate lb generatiy derided by comn^on opinion.

.

}

To diftruft ; not to credit

3.

rhilologcrs and critical dtfcourjiri, who look beyond the obvious exteriors of things, will not be

it is

The books read at fchooU and colleges are full

A writer on any fubjeft

2.

withjO-ww.

:

an haranguer.
;
The traft of every thing

Would by a good difcevrfcr lofe foroc life,
Which action's felf was tongue to.
Sl'okeffeari,

rage.'\

2.

A fpeaker

1

dij'cOU-

ff^ottca.

He, like a privlleg'd (Jiy, whom nothing can
Dticfidr, libels now 'gainft each great man. Dcme^
Reflect how glorious it would be to appear in
countenance of d:fcredUed duty, and by example of
piety rcvivi: the declining fpirit of religion. Rcgtri.
Without care our bell aCtions will lofe much of
their influence, and our virtues will be often difcndited with the appearance of evil.
Roget-j,

To Discou'rse. <v.a. [from the noun.]
To treat of ; to talk over ; to difcufs.

years, as they are generally iij-

Shaktjptare*

He is commended that makes a faviAg voyage,

Go with us into the ahbey here.

rour.
Moft men in

to bring reproach upon j

;

to fliarae ; to make lefs reputable or hO'

eonfcquences.

And yet tiie pow'rs of hcT difcwrjing thoughts.
Dmiicu
From the colleSion is a divcrfe thing.

Piscou'racsr. n. f. [from

To difgrace

1.

Lwit.
mankind.
To reafon ; to pafs from premifes to

You may keep your beauty and your health,

<o

mifes of life, whicKJ have d':fcredind to him, in4
now is he refolved to die.
ShaktJ^tare,

Dtjdtn.

To treat upon in a folemn or fet manner.

2.

v.ithyrcm betbrc the tiling.

3.

He had framed to htmfelf many jtee'ving pra*

vat'ioiu thing* diffmrfng as be pafk'd,

Anchifes hither herd;.

Itegrrt.

to fright from any attempt

;

D I S

D I S

Tbr voft1< <^>th S"*i 1^*1 dijoiirjgu tM un-

Latin.]
not continuous.

[di/cretus,

Diliinft ; disjoined

;

Ptfcrtle quantity, or diiiercnt individuals, arc

mcafurcd by number, without any breaking continuity j that is, in things that have continuity, as
continued quantity and motion.
HaU't Origin cf Manhind.
i. Disjunftive ; as,

/ rcjtgn my life, but

not my hnnottr, is a difcrete propofition.

6

3.

Difirett

D I S
Di/crete ProferticK is when the ratio be-

J.

for what you are, to that dijcrimhaiing mercy, to

which alone you owe your cxempcion from mife-

:

Discri'minateness. n.f. [from dijcriminate.}
ence.

Prudence ; knowledge to govern or direft one's felf ; flcill ; wife management.
Notliing then was further thought upon for the

manner of governing but all permitted unto their
wifdom ?nd tii/ireuou which were to rxilc, }icoker.

There

and make a due difcriminarion between
thofe that are, and thofe who are not, the proper

rigible \

objefts of it.

Addiftn's S^e^atur.
liy that prudent difcriminaticn made between the
offenders of different degrees, he obliges tliofe

Take heed of abetting any fa£lions, or applying
any publick difcrimtnaturs in matters of religion.
King Charles.
Letters arife from the firll original dijcr'imwations of voice, by way of articulation, whereby the
ear is able to judge and obferve the differences of

out (lipulation.

vocal founds.

Discre'tionary./i^'. [from difcretkn.'\
Left at large ; unlimited ; unreftrained.
A deacon may have a djfpenfatton for entering

1.

Aylifft'i Parergnn.

rience, was invefted willi a difcnti^nary power.
T^.'/.r.

Discre'tive.

a{lj. [Ji/cretus, Latin.]
[In logick.] Di/creti-ve propofitions are
fuch wherein various, and feemingly oppofite, judgments are made, whofe variety or diftinftion is noted by the par-

Discri'min ABLE. adj. [from

liifcrimi-

nate-l DiHinguifhable by outward marks

Or tokens.

Diff.

To DISCRI'MINATE. v. a.

[dt/crimino,

Latin.]

K To mark with note* of difference
dillinguifh

;

by certain tokens from an-

Difirimiittttive Providence knew before the nature and couife of all things.
Mirers Antidote againft Atheijm.

Discri'minous.
Latin.]

Dangerous ; hazardous.

AyVifes Barcrgon,

Or tell a tale?

humour or fwelling.
Many arts were ufed to (///"«/» the beginnings of
new afl'cflion.

happens upon the gap-

Discu'bitoRY. adj.

[di/cuhi/orius, Lat.]

Fitted to the pofture of leaning.

to burn, dijcuji, and terebratc. Brotvn's ^utg. Err,

Discu'ssER. n.f, [from di/cu/s.] He thatdifcuffes;

Bro^vns yulgar Errourj.

The Greeks and Romans ufed the cuftom of
2.

fide i for fo their right hand was free and leady for

Brcicns yulgar Errcun.
[dis and cumier.]

He binds the facred cincture round hi? brcall.

difengage from any troublefome
weight ; to difengage from impediment.
His limbs difcunbtr'd uf the clinging vert,

TcDiscu're. "v.a.

To difcover

;

noxious matter^

D

1

s c u' r I E

NT

.

«-

/ [di/cutitns

,

Latin:]

drive back the matter of tumours in the'
It fometimes means the fame asblood.
^imy.
crrminative.

The fvvellings ariling from ihefe require to be

Feirf Sjitfr.

\difcurjif,

Fierich,

from difcurrc, Latin.]
1. Moving here and there j roving; defultory.

Discu'ssivE. <i<^'. \_UaTa difcufs.] Having"
the power to difcufs or difperfe atry^

French.]

A word per-

1 w.li, if pleafc you it dijcurs, aflay

DISCU'RSIVE. adj.

[In furgery.] Difcujjfion or refolution is
nothing elfe but breathing out the humours by infenfiblc tranfpiration. i{'ifem,

A medicine that has power to repel or

haps peculiar to Spenjer.

To exit you iif that ill.

•

Pcjr'i OdyjTry.

[(//i-oz/w/r,

to reveal.

ventila--

Htutb,each particular.
Various difcuj/tons tear our heated brain :
Opinions often turn j fliU duubts remnin;
And who indulges thought, increafespiin. Prisi"

ancient manner.
left

examination ;

;

tion of a queftion.
Truth cannot be found without fomc labour and
intention of the mind, and the thoughts dwelling
a confiderable time upon thefurvey and dijeujjion of

Discu'MBENcy. ft,/, [di/cttmiens, Lat.]
The afl of leaning at meat, after the

fervice.

Difquifition

1.

meals, which was upon their

an examiner.

Discu'ssiON. «./. [from di/iu/s.]

After bathing they retired to bed, and refrelhed
themlelvcs with a repafl ; and fo that cuflom, by
d^gr-ees, changed their cubicuUry beds into di/cuhitcry,

IVoiton,-

To break to pieces..
Cunfi Jer the thrcefuld effeft of Jupiter's trifullr,

Any kind of fpitting of blood imports a very

all

:

3.

ufual.

Pope,

To difperfe commonly applied to'a-

2.

Not

from eacji other, and Hiftr'm'malrd by the natives
bj three peculiar namct.
Boyle.
The right hand \% difcrminated from the left by
natural,
necefluy,
and
a
never to be confounded
diftinflian.
Smih,
Although the fintures of hit countenance be no

Uddtr.

to ventilate ; to clear by

;

privately to certain perfons learned in the laws.

[from difcrimen,

adj.

To

reafon of obedience, yet thty may fcrve to difcrimirati him from any other perfon, whom rtie ii not
*> obey.
SiHhrg/le/t.
There may be ways of difcriminating the voice j
ai by acutenefs and gravity, the fcveral degrees of
jjCnc and failing from one tsae or note to another.

To examine

This knotty point fhould you and 1 dijcujs.

Oyfters, and cockles, and mufclcs, which move
not, have no dijcrirn'miti fcx.
arm's Nat. Hift.
There arc three forti of it differing in fincnefs

t

[di/cKlio, dijcujiim,

Latin.]
1.

That which obferves diftinAion.

To Discu^iBER. "v. a.

other.

Fifi's Odyffey,

To DISCU'SS. f. a.

We are to difcufs only thofe general exceptions

difiuml/eitcy at

to

From Elatreus' fSrong arm the diftui flies,

And fings with unmatch'd force abng the fkies.

Hooker^-./
which have been taken.
His ufage was to cammit the dif<njfng of caufec

ing of a vein opened by a pletliory.
Her'vey on CbTtJumptions.

man, but a heaji.

cient fports.

That which makes the mark ofdiilinc-

may change their climate, but net their
temper ; Job •was patient, though his grief
PVatts.

n, /.

fought for in the conftituent matter of it. ff^oodw.

2.

.

[Latin.]
A quoit ; a
heavy piece of iron thrown in the ai>-

DJ'SCUS.

tion ; charadleriilical.
The only Handing teft, and difcrtminative chara£leriflick of any metal or mineral, muit be

dijcriminous fiatc, unlefs it

avas great.

Wc have a principle within, whereby we think,
and we know we think ; whereby we do difcurfnely, and by way of radocinatlcn, deduce one
Hale,
thing from another.
Discu'rsory. adj. [di/curfor, Latin.]

difquifition.

ticles iut, though, yet, ice. as, tra-vellen

Di/cretitie diHin(MoBs
2. [fn grammar.]
are fuch as imply oppofition ; as, net a

difpute touching the

Discu'rsively. ad'v, [trcm dijlurjti'e.]
By due gradation of argument.

nate."]

that order at what time be thinks fit.

The major being a perfon of conlummnte expe-

There hath been much

Holder,

DiscRruiNATivE. adj. [from di/crimi-

into orders before he is twrenty-three years of age ;
and it is d':fcrethnary in the bilhop to admit him to

and body, of more

knowledge of bnitci, whether they ha\e a kiad of
dijcurftve faculty, which fonr.e call reafon.
HaWs Origin of Mankind,

Argumental ; rational.

Addijon's Frteto/der.

3. The marks of diltinflion.

he furrenders at Aifcretion ; that is, with-

a fanitity of I'oul

gieateil pretences to dijcurfit'e dcmonftrarion.
Morels Divine Dialogues,

whom he has dillinguiihed as objefls of mercy.

Swift,

is

effieacy for the receiving of divine truths, than the

The aft of diftinguifhing one from another ; diftindion ; difference put.
A ficire ihould cxpofe nothing but what is cor-

2.

Z. Liberty of ailing at pleafure ; uncontrolled and unconditional power: as,

1.

di/cri-

account of their difcriniination from other places,
and fcparation for facred^fes.
StiUingjiect.

The plcafuT* of commanding our paHions is to

dence.

[from

n. /.

The ftate of being diftinguifhed from
other perfons or things.
There is a reverence to be fiiewed them on the

1.

ShaUffcare,
the world.
All this -wai ordcr'd by the good dif'.rctkn
right
reverend
cardinal
of
Vork.
Of the

be preferred before any fenfual plcafure , becaufe it
Tillotfcn.
js the pleafure of wifjom and di/creihn,
But care in poetry mud liill be had,
It aflcs difcrethn ev'n in running mad.
P-ift.
There is no talent fo ufeful towards rifing in the
world, or which puts men more out of the reach of
fortune, than difcretian, a fpecies of lower pru-

differ-

minalio, Latin.]

A kni'e may be taken away from a child, with-

Stakcffeare's Henry VIII.

marked

2.

Di^.

DiscRiMiN a'tion.

J

out depriving them of the benefits thereof which
Hooker.
have years and 4'tjcrmon to ufe it.
It is not g'>od that diiiiren fliould know any
wickednefs : uld folks have Ji/crttim, and know

Diftin£tnefs j

Bacm,
Proceeding by regular gradation from
premil'es to confequenccs ; argumentative.
This is fometimes, perhaps not
improperly, written dij'courfive.'

dijcurfi've motion of the fpiiits.

Soyle.

ric5.

Harris.
thus, 6 8
3 ;
Discre'tion. n./. [from dijcrefto, Lat.]
I.

:

You owe little lefs for what you arc nor, than

fame proportion between all the four
:

Some noifei help lleep; as the blowing of the
tliey move a
wind, and the trickling of water
gentle attention ; and whatfoever moveth attention,
without too much labour, fliUcth the natural and

To feJeft or feparate from others.

2.

tween two pairs of numbers or quantities is the fame ; but there is not the
:

D T S

D I S

treated, in their beginning, with moderate repellent''

and dijcutients.

fViJcman,

To DISD.VIN. 1:. a. [dedaigner, French.]
To fcorn ; to cpnfider as unworthy of
one'i charailer.

D

D I S

a« &• »' »»«"> "" *'" >"''
Let h« alane, Udy
Sbatj'fiai::
mirth.
l" Kiagt.
He W4> dilUftd in his feet.
were
laid
wherein
A !a«ar.houle it feera'd,

^httt ii notKing fo great, which I wJII f«« to
4oforyoui nor nothing fo fmill, which I will

••

Tiiey do llijdain us much bfyond our thought',

Which mikcs mc fwMt with wrath. Shateffrarr.
What fafc and nic«Iy I might \«11 delay

By rule of knighthood, I difJa'tn and fpuin. Shak.

Numbers of all difeas'J,

yet the highett degree of 'darknefs does not at all

fcorn ; contemptuous anger ; indignation.

diftafi

Pifi't Odyffty.

PrydtUt

camber. ]
To difcharge from encumbrances; to
free from clogs and. impediments ; to
di (burthen ; to exonerate.

1.

difeafed.

This is a reftoration to fome former ftate ; not

But agalnft you, Je Creeks, ye coward train,
Godil how my foul is mov'd with juft dijdain !

_

that ftate ofindigeftcyind </[/«;«</»>?/».

Bunui'i l%tory.

D

difdain and /a//.
[
Contemptuous ; haughtily fcornful ; in-

Disda'inful. aJj.

s e'd G F

i

D . adj. [dis and edge.] Blunted

It will need the aftual intention, the particular
I

and application of the whole foul, to difinand r«move thofe hindrances which would otherwife clog
and check the freedom of its operations. Sfratr,

ftrefs

1

cunslier and fet it free, Co fcour oflFits mil,

T

obtuuded ; dulled.

'

grieve myfelf

I

I

To think, when thou (halt be difcdg'd by her

dignant.

Whom now thou tir'ft on, how thy memory

There will come a time when three words, uttered with charity and meeknefs, fli^J! receive a far
more blelTcd reward, than three thoufand volumes,

Shakiff. CymMwt.

Drydfit,

Dreams look like the amufements of the foul,

Will then be pang'd by mc.

A

But do it when the next thing he efpies
Shakef^earc.
Shall be the lady.
But thofe I can accufc, I can forgive:

DryJcH.
By my difdainful filence let them live,
The difda'mful foul came rufliing through the

Drydtn.
,

Disda'infully. adv. [irom difdainful.']
Contcmptuoufly ; with haughty fcorn ;
with indignation.
Either greet hin? not.

'

Some.necefVaries.

Shakcfftcarc,
It is not to infult and domineer, to look diJJainfully, and revile imperioufly, that procures efteem

South.

from any one.

[from dift'aincontemptuoulnefs ;

Contempt;

'

haughty fcorn.
Can I former, when they in prifon placing her,
With fwclling heart, in fpitc and due iijdawfutniji.
She lay for dead, till I help'd with unlacing her.
Sidney.

A prouil d'tfdainfulmfi of other men. jifcban:.
riSE.VSE. n.f. [dis and. ea/e.] Diftemmalady ; ficknefs ; morbid ftate.

afle'ep.

ShahJi,.Tvi,Gcn:.<,fI''mM.'

^0 Disemba'rk:.

To land; logo

'v. n.

Mskcrim
Dim night had difcntumhcrd heav'n.
The church of Scjuflina,uefigned by Palladio,

1

There dijtmbark'mg on the green f:a-fide.

I

la

We land our cattle, and the fpoil divide. Poft'i Od.
7» Disembi'tter. f
ter.]

To fweeten

nefs ; to clear

;

.

from acrimony

:

Diveftedof the body.
T*!?

D

I s

verb.]

—

reign, was difcafcd in his feet, and \\m dijrnje was
exceeding great ; and in his dijtufche foiight not t<>
Chrim.
the Lord, but to the phyficiani.
It is idle to propcfe remedies before we arc af-

fured ot the J//i'<i/f,.or to be in pain till we arc convinced of the danger.
Sw'jfi's Prejcilfcr tht Mvamtmcnt cfRtligitn.

Intemperance

encumbranct.
9"«
I
e N a'g

D

In meats and drinks, which in the eartii fliati bring

Mthan.

DiUth dire.
'rh{/ntjijn'*s

To afflict with difeale

;

to torment with

pain or ficknefs ; to make morbid ; to
iofea.

We are all djfrafid.

In the next paragraph, 1 found my auttior pretty

to wean ; to abftraft the mind.
it is rcquilite that we Ihould.icquaint our(?lvcs

with God, tljat we {hould frequently dtfingag* our
Att-:rbury.
hearts from cartljy purfuits.
Theconfideration that (hn\\\i d'tfoigagtOMx fondthings,
is, that they ate uncernefs iTOm worldly
tain in their fuundatinn j lading, tracfient, and

And with our forfeiting and wanton hours
Hive brought ourfelves intoaburning fever. Shai.
Flatt'rers yet wear filk, drink wine, lie foft.

Hog their d'feat\l (>etfumcs, and have forgot
XWst «ver Timou was.

So her difcmhtnocird v.eb

corruptible in their nature.

to free from perplex-

ity ; to reduce from confufjon.
Then earth from air, and leas from earth were
driv*n.

4.

^bakijftari.

The fyftero of his politicks is difanbnilid, and
Aikiijim'l Whig Examnir.

To deprive of power

;

and enable.]

to difable ; to

fink into weaknefs ; to weaken.
Now age has overtakes me; and wjnt, a more
infufferable evil, through the change af ihr times,
^rydtu
has wholly dijinttiid mc.

Rtgen*

To free from any powerful detention.
When our mind's eyes are d'yengagd and froCf

I

.

They clearer, farther, and diftinQly Se. Dtnham,
5. To rcleafe from an obligation.
7fl Disenga'ce. v. n. To fet one's felf
free from; to withdraw one's alFeflioQs
from.
Providence gives us notice, by fenfible declesby deCojlifr OB Thought.
grees.
fions, that we may diftngage from the world

Dryd<n.
cleared of all thofe incoherences and independent
matters that are woven into this motley pieci'.

j4tterbt/ry»

To withdraw, applied to the affection ;

3.

els.

Arachne in a hall or kitchen fpreads.
Pti/ifs.
Obvious to vagrant flies,
ro DisEMDRo'iL. -v. a. [debeuiHer, Fr.]

from impe-

well dijtngjged from quotations.

Disembo'wem.ed. participial adj. [dis
and embov.'el.] Taken from out the bow-

{dis

to clear

Found nobler objefts for our martial rage. JValUr*

and at laft difimbogue in feveral mouths into the
Ctowr.
fca.

To Disena'bi.e. v. a.

;

diments or difEculties.
From civil broils he did us difengage ;

jiddijin.

Summer.

fg Disea'se. -v. a. [from the noun.]

[dis and eugage.]

in union.

To difentangle

2.

Thus difembroU'd, they take their proper place.

Walks the dire pow'r of peftilent iijicjt.

a.

and down a good while, before they could wholly
difengiigf themfelves and defcend. BurnetU ^Ibtiry,

ToDisembo'gue.t'. n. Togaina vent;

And groflcr air funk from etherial hcav'n

Then wafteful forth

'V.

Some others, being very light, would float up

Rivers

;

SpcBatar,
.

To feparate from any thing with which
it is

Prench. Skinner.] To pour out at the
mouth of a river j to vent.

To difentangle

Freedom from encumbrance and

There are many who make a figure below what

.

What's the dijceft he means ?
Sbakiffcari's Machtih.
'Tis call'd the evil.
And Ala, in the thirty and ninth year ff his

Addifm on Italy.
[from the

f.

their fortune or merit entitles them to, out of
mere choice, and an elegant defire of cafe and d'^-

1 .

to flow.
By eminences placed up and down the globe, the
rivers make innumerable turnings and windings,

It.

obitruflion.

'

e M B o'g V e . v. a. \_difeinhoucher, old

In ample oceans dlfemhgud, or lort. Dryd. Ovid.
Rolling down, the deep Timavus raves.
And throug!/ nine channels difcmbogaet his waves.

handlbme, luminous, dijencuptbercd

moft

Disencu'mbrance.

an un-

ufual word.
Encourage fuch innocent amnfcments as may
difmtiittr the minds of men, and make them mutually rejoice in the fame agreeable latisfiSions.
Mdijm's I'riihddcr.
Disembo'died. adj. [dii and embodied.]

the

building in the inlide, that I have ever fcen.

«. [(/i> and embit-

to free from bitter-

Stcflatir,

•

To free from obftruftion of any kind.

2.

on land.

Or elfe difjaiafully, which ihall fliakc him more.

Di s D a'i K F u L N E ss. ». /.

when the is difencumhcr^d of her mac^^ine j- her
fports and recreations, when fhe has laid her charge

To carry to land.
I mull unto the road, to dij-mbark

Stubborn to juftice, apt t' accilfe it>
SbaUfftarc.
Difdairful to be tried by 't.
Seek through this grove
(weet Athenian jadyJs in love
With a difJainfu! youth : anoint his eyes ;

wound.

The diftncumher'd foul
Flew off, and left behind the clouds and ftarry pole.

'

To Disemba'rk. o. «. [du and e/ntari.]

Hocktr.

written with difjjinful (harpnefs of wit.
The queen ii«bllinate.

I.

own \<TiL'iadiftncbam you. Sidmf.

Hafle to thrwork ; t nohle ftroke or two
Ends all the charms, and difimteuls the gtove.

[from difeafed.^

». /.

Sicknefs ; morbidnefs ; the ftate of being

Eceltn.

drtd.

let your

!

^ I-'"*'- To Disencu'mber. v. a. [dis and en-

them.

Disease UNEss.

ChiUren being haughty, through difdain and
want of nurture, do ftain the nobility of (heir kin-

per ;

Alas

Mule, ftoop iiiy dyiuiaiuU wing to truth.

eafy.

Disda'in. ;;./ {/Jegnii, Ital.] Contempt;

ful.'\

charms or fpells.

2. To put to pain ; to pain; to make un-

Though gteat light be iufufferaWe to our ejcs,

t;, fl. {</;'/ and tHcheni.']

mcM

Milin.

MJiJ.

.

s-

1

I'o free from the force oran enchantto deliver from the power cf
;

maladies

all

Of ghaflly fpifin, or racking torture.

TeU'liim, Cato
D'fJair.: a life which he has power to offer,

.

7* D I s E N c H a'k T

dijetfi our better

SUrry,

aijda'm to do for you.

T>

S

I

Disenca'cbd. participial adj. [from difengage.]
1.

Disjoined; difentangled.

Vacant at leifure ; not fixed down to
any particular objeft of attention.
3. 'Releafed from obligation.
Disenca'cedness.b./. [from difingage.]
Th^ (juality of being difengaged ; va-

2.

;

'

,

J-

cuity

D I S

D I S

Culty of attention ; freedom from any

Disestima'tion. »./.

pieffing bufinefs ; disjunftion.

Releafe from any engagement, or obligation.
2. Freedom of attention ; vacancy.
I.

DisENTA'rfGLE. "Ji a.

9"o

[^dis

and en-

I. To unfold or loofe the parts

of any

Disfa'vour. n.f.

8..

To fee free from impediments ; to difembroil ; to cleA- from perplexity Or

nu"-

Clarendon.
.

The welfare of their fouls requires a better ju Jg-

3.

to feparate.
Neither can God himfelf be otherwife under,
flood by us than as a mind free and d'ljenlangled

trom all corporeal mixtures.

SiilUnrfieir.

French.] To unbury ; totakeoutof the
grave.
Though the blindnefs of fnme fanaticks have
favaged on the bodies of the dead, and have been
lb injurious unto worms as. to difmterre the bodies

of the deceafed, yet had they therein no defign
upon the foul.
Brmrnt y^alg.lr Erroun.

yi DiSE NT H R a'l. f. a. \_dis and enthral.]

To fet free

to rettore to liberty ; to
;
refcue from flavery.
But God my foul fliall di/ntbrtli
For I upon his name will call.
Sandyt.
If religion were

men would fet the
utmoft force of their reafon on work to difcbver
that falfity, and thereby dijenthral themlelves
falfe,

bad

Snutt.

_.

To DiSENTHRo, NE. 17.
throne.]

and e/i-

a. [dit

To depofe from ibvereignty

to dethrone.

;

We

To Disentra'nce. -v. a.
trance.]

and en-

[dis

To awaken from a trance, or

deep fleep.

ccfs to her majelh-, receive
her

Hudibra:.

9« DiSESPo'usE. -v. a. [dis ind e/pou/e.']

To feparate after faith plighted.
Such was the rage

Of Turnus, for Lavinia difrftcai'd.

Miltcn.

Diseste'em. n./ [dis -and ejleem.] Slight
regard ; a difregard more moderate than
contempt.

When any one, by mifc.irriage, falls into d:f.

tjitm, he will fall under negleS and

contempt,

Loch.

tr

r
Y« T\
JJisESTE EM. V. a. [from thffnoun.]

To regard flightly

;

to confider with a

flight degree of contempt.

Mmerva, never fo incens'd, they could

not

dif-

But if thi. facr«d gift you difeftcem.

Then cruel plagues IhaU fall on Priam'i date.
T

I

JTa

,

,

"' *" ""'"«'"
r
the ftudy of
nature.

Vol. I,

Dcnham.

^ '"/'fi"" or diffuade
^. ^,

I hy glutton

r

..

2.

Milton.

Uriel, on the AflVrian mount.

Their warlike fraughtagc.
I-

D,

Derbam,
,
[difgrace.Vr.]
1. State of being out of favour.
z. State of ignominy
; dilhonour;
ftate of

ISGRACE. n.f.
ihame.

Like a dull aiflor, now
my part, and I am out

I have forgot

Even to a tuJI difgrace.
Shakefpeare.
foetry, however cenfured, Is not
fallen from
the higheft ftage of honour to
the loweft rtair of

confiftcd,

as well as the reft of his figure,
with
fuch a foul and fuch parts as made him,

dhkgured

ia the church.

Locke.
».<-..
Nor would
his naughter'd army now have lain
On Africfs fands, dUfigur'd with their wounds,

by her, whole Jifgraces to him were

,

4.

Broome on Epic Poetry.

better form to a worfe.**

The dhfiguremtnt that travel or ficknefs has bellowed upon him, is not thought great
by the ladv
of^^'l^'Suckling
And they, fo perfeift is their mifcry.
Not once perceive their foul disfigurement.

Brib'd by a title, makes it a

chi/e.'^^

dfgraci.

Brown.

We

may not lo in any one fpecial kind admira
her, that we difgrace her in any other;
but let all
her ways be according unto their place
and degree
Hooker.
,.
.
Men , 5 paflions will
carry them far in mifrepre.
fentmg an opinion which they have a mind to
di(-

Milton's Comus.

^

^'''"-

common land.
2.

mxdfranTo deprive of privileges or im-

gj

Caufe of fhame.
And is it not a foul difgrace.
To lofe the boltfprit of thy face »
Baynari.
And he whofe affluence difduin'd a place,

To Disgra'ce. -v. a. [from the noun.]
1. To bring a reproach upon
; to dilhonour, as an agent.

Te Dispo REST, t'.fl. [diszndforcjl.]
To
reduce land from the privileges of a
foTo Djsfra'nchise. -v. a. [dis

graced by lier

excellence.

•

DiSFi GUREMENT. K.f. [from disfigure.]
Defacement of beauty ; change of a

Pc^cham.

Obfolete.

To fuch bondage he was for fo many courfes tied

/iddifcn's Calo

J,.
,
His
long abfence, and travels which
had disfi.
gurcd him, made him altogether unknown.

,^IT'r
r
Adt of unkindnefs.
1

3.

gorge the wolves and vultures of Numidia.

reft to the ftate of

'Shahfpcare.

.

Into the burning lake their baleful
ftreams. Milton.
Countries much annoyed with earthquakes,
have
volcanoes ; and thefe are conftantly
all in flames,
whenever any earthquake happens; th^y
difgorginc
that hre which was the caufe
of the difaftcr.

A noTe flatter, or a mouth wider, could have

,

cvilj

rivers, that difgorge

;|^/,,„.

as he was, capable to be a dignitary

Dryden,

.

.

'^'"i' ""^^ ^'""g *e banks
.
nr
t)f tour infernal

Saw him dUfigur'd, more' than could befal
Spirit of happy fort.

,

world ?

By him imprinted, and within his power

Disfigurhg not God's likcnefs, but their own.
Or, It his likenefs, by themfelves defac'd.

•

pour out with violence.
1
All th' embofled fores and headed

The deep drawing barks do there difgorie

Deformity.

Shaheff.
Abjeift is their punirtiment,

'r~
o

That thou with licence of free foot haft
cau,ht,
Wouldft thou difgorge into the general

To DisFr'cuRE. "J. a. [dis Z-X^d
figure.]
To change any thing to a worfe form
;
to deform ; to mangle.
You are but as a form in wax
Sbahfpearc.

Shakefaeare.

-

,•„

heaving bread difgorgc the brinydraught.

Djsfigura'tion. n.f. [from disfigure. 1
I. The aft of disfiguring,
z. The flate of being disfigured.

face

1

/';''.'" .""^ ^'^^"^ "x'" they loudly laught.
™
To fee his

It was verily thought, that
had it not been for
four great disfa-veureri of that voyage,
the enterpnae had fucceeded.
£a„„.

In this the antique and well-noted

bofom of the royal Richard >

And now thou wouldfteat thy dead vomit up.

Difcountenancer ; not a favourer.

munities,

Should Mars fee 't.
That horrid hurricr of men, or (he that
betters him,

,_ So, fo, thou common dog, didft thou difiorge

UiSFA VOURER, n.f. [from disfavour.]

Ot plain old form is much disfigured.

To difcharge by the mouth; to fpew

out ; to vomit,

own commands,

To leave the figure, or dUJigure it.

Mihon.'

the throat.]

^w.j-/',

I.

s-ilf,.

%.

fcorn.

To Drsco-RGE. -u. a. [degorger.
Fr. from

and be countenanced or dufa-vsuud
accordine as
^'^'^7 obey f

,

Ralpho, by thi« time dilnlratic'd.

Upon his bum himfelf advanc'd.

d;^

Might not thofeof higher rank, and nearer ac-

1

MUm.

Difgtonfied, blafphcm-d, and had in

" [from the noun.]

.

,

Either to difitilbrimt the king of hea>. "a
war, if war be beft j or to regain

Our own right loft.

""•

and God,
compar'd with idols,

Befides whomisno god,

Todifcountenance ; to withhold or withdraw kindnefs. .

;

To Disente'rre. 'u. a. [dis and enter-rer,

dignity.
So Dagon ftall be magnified,

Sf dinar.

Want of beauty.

^"JP'fJ'^'^'""'^-

South.

J'/-

To deprive of glory; to treat with in-

man ; but after his facriiege
he was in dnfamur with both.

ment than their ov/n, either to guide them in their
duty, or to dijitiiatglc them from a temptation.

m
3., To difengage

r»Dlsci.o'RlFY. -v. a. [dis v,t,d glorify.-\

were, with God and

difficulty.
Till they could find feme expedient to explicate
«nd dijerUrgU themfelaes ouOof this lahyrinth,
they made no advance towards fupplying their ar-

Knollcs'lUifiorf.

A ftate of ungracioufnefs or unacceptablenefs; a Hate in which one is
not fa-

BmU.

wonted garrUbns,

To Disga'rnish.i;. a. [dis
&ndgarnifo.\
I, To ftnp of
ornaments.
/)y^.
z. To take guns from
a fortrefs.
\

While free from facrilege, he was at peace, as it

Though ia cn;icKtion»partic!es lb entangle one

ta^^le themfch cp, and get away.

great a commander, or of the

voured.

tiling interwoven with one another.
•nother, that they cannot in a Aort time clear
themfelvet, yet they do incc(l'int!y rtrUe to tUfic-

^

cumftance.
2.

He t'urft not diifiurai/h that country either of Ot

Diii.
[dis and fa'vour.]

Difcountenance; unpropitious regard;
unfavourable afpeft ;. unfavourable cir-

1.

tangle. ]

..

and</?/w«.

Lat.] Difrefpeft ; difefteem.

//o,

Disenga'gement. n.f. [fromt/i/enga^e.]

D I S
[dis

Burru.

To bring to fhame, as a caufe

:

as, his

ignorance difgraced him.
3.

To put out of favour : as, the mlnifier
ivas difgraced,

Disfra'nchisement. n.f. [from diffrancbife.] The aft of depriving of pri- Disgra'ceful. adj. [difgrace And full.
J
vileges.

/j;^_

yuDisFu'RNisH, v.a [dis a.nd ftirnijh.]

To deprive

;

to unfumifti ; to ftrip.

My riches are thefe poor habiliirtcnts,

OPwhich, if you fliould herc</;i/»r»i/i?i me.
You take the fum and fubftancc that I have. Shak.

Shameful ; ignominious ; leproachful
;
procuring ftiarae,
Maficrs muftcorrcft their fervants with gentle-

nefs, prudence,

and mercyj not with upbraiding
and difgracrful language, but with fuch
only as
may exprefj and reprove the fault, and amend the
'
perfon.
Tayhr't Rule of Living Holy.

3

Z

T,

"

To Rtite behind their chariots, wu as little i/i/fractfilxhco, as it is now to alight tVum one's horlc
in a battle.
Pofe.

verfe to you, unleft 70a are a very dextero ui i)}-

/ul.] In difgrace J with indignity ; ignominioufly.

The icnate have cart you forth
DifgratifuUy, to be the common talc
Of the whole city.
Brn yoHfiti's Catalhe.
Discra'cepulness. (T.y; [from difgrace-

SvMt.

gu'fcr.

One that conceals another by a difguiie

2.

DiscRA'cEFutLY. a</f. [frota Ji/graci-

ful.']

D I S

D I S

D I S

Death '» a great difguijir.

Shuliffeari.

DISGU'ST. n.f. [degottt, French.]
1

Averfion of the palate from any thing.
Ill humour; malevolence ; offence conceived.

The manner of doing is of more eonfeqacucc
than the thing done, and upon that depends the
fatisfadtion or difguji wheiewith it is received.

Ignominy.

Discra'cer. »./, [from di/grace.'\ One
that expofcs to (hame ; one that caufes

Ltcit.

D s o R a'c tovs. adj. [dis and graciaus. ]
I (Jo fufpcdt

Latin.]

To raife avtrfion in the ftomach ; to

have done fome oftcnce,

D

diftafte.

If a man were dlfgujitd at

How niifjht we di/^uift hinj
!

1

know

not :

tliete

is

?

To hide by a counterfeit appearance

To produce averfion

DiSGu'sTFUL.

Drydm'i /Etllid,

Than at Circean call the herd dUgith'd.

Milttm.

I faw among tlic ruins an old heathen altar,
with this particularity in it, that it is hollowed
like a di/h at one end ; but it was not this end, on

;

:

a low term.

which tlie facrifice was laid.

Who would rob a hermit of his weeds.

A ladle for our filver dijh
Is what 1 want, is what 1 wifli.

that wears it.

They generally aft in a difguj/t themfclvcs, and
therefore miftake all outward ftjw and appearances
yiddifon.

Sinse I in Arcitc cannot Arcire find.
The world m:y fcarch in vain with all their eyes.
But never penetrate through this difguife.
Drydeit^s FohUi.

A falfe appearance

; counterfeit (hoiv.
Hence guilty joys, diftaftes, furmifes,

Falfe oaths, falfe tears, deceits, difguifa,

Splits what i! fpeaks ! the wild dijgalft hath almoft

Antickt us.

Sbahfp. Ai.tmy and CUcfatra.

PiSQUi'sEMENT. tt./.

[^

ftom di/gutfe.

"]

Drefs of conccalrat-nt.

cular kind of food.
have here a difli of doves, that I would bellow
upon your wurfhip.
Shakeff. Mirch. t,fVetnct.
Let 's kill him baldly, but not wrath fully;
I

Let's carve him as ^difh fit for the gods,

Not hew him as a carcafs fi: for hound$.
ShdUjfearti yuliui Ctefar.

Stakffptare.

IVfiiia.

Djsgui'ser. »./. [from dijgui/e.l

One that puts on a difguiji.
I

hope he is grown more difengagid from bit in-

tcatnefi on his own affairs,

which is quite the rc-

found only in Shakefp€are.'\
To throw
out of place ; to drive from their ha9ut for our approach thofe deeping ftonei«

By the compulfiun of their ordinance.
By this time from their fixed beds of lime
Had been difhatited, and wide havock made.
Sbaieffeare's fCittg hear.

Disha'rmonv. n.f. [<//'< and harmtiny.\
Contrariety to harmony,

fa D I s H E a'r T E N

.

1; a. \_di$

To difcourage ; to dejeft

and hearten.'X
;

to terrify j

To dijhiorten with fearful fentencas, as though
falvation could hardly be hoped for, is not fo confonant ^^ich Chriftian charity.

Hooker.

Be not dijhtarten'd then, nor cloud thofe looks
That wont tobemore chcarfuland ftrene, Milttn.
Yet neither thus dijhearien'd nor difmay'd.

The time prep.ir'd I waited.

Militm.

It is a confideration that

might difhearien thofe

who are engaged againft the common adverfaries,
that they promife tbemfelves as much from the
folly of enemies, as from the power of their friends.
Sliltir.gf.tet,

Men cannot fay, that thegreatnefs of an evil and
danger-is un encouragement to men to run upon
it; and that the grcatnefs of any good and h.rppi.

men from the

pucfuitofit.

Tillotfoti.

A true chriftian fervour is more than the alliances of our potent friends, or even the fears of our
difjeartrted enemies.
A:terhufy.

Makes eating a delight;
And if 1 like one dl/h
More than another, that a pheafant is. SmUing.
The earth would have been deprived of a moil
excellent, and wholefomc fare, and very many delicious di/bes that we have the ufe and benelit o(.
jy^odxoard'
Many people would, with rcafon, prefer the
griping of an hungry belly, to thofe dijha which
are a feall to others.

4.

Loikt.

A kind of meafure among_the tinners.
They meafure block-tin by the d'fh, which containeth » gallon.

Cernu.

To Dish. -v. a. [from the noun.] To ferve
in a difh ; .to fend

aft of debarring from inheritance.
To Dishe'rit. v. a. [dis and inherit.']
To cut oflTrom hereditary fucceflion j to
debar from an inheritance.
He tries to reftore to their ightful heritage fuch
'

good old Englifli words as have been long time out
of ufe, almolt diperited.
Spetifer.
Nor haw the Dryads and rfie woodland train,
Di/heiited, ran howling o'er the plain. Dryd. Fah.
ToDiiH e'vel. I", a. [decbeveler, French.]

To fpread the hair diforderly

'T!s not the meat, but 'tia the appetite,

Under that difguiftment ] ihould find opportunity

and told him, that he was going covertly to take
a fecrel view of the forwardnefi of his majelty's
Oeet : this did famewhat handfamely hc«l the dij-

Clariffa.

1

The contract you pretend with that bafe wretch.
One bred of alms and fofter'd with cold dijhes,
With fcraps o' th' court it is no contra^, none.

to reveal myfclf to the owner of my heart. Sidney.
The marijiis thought boft to difmaflc his beard,

gi/iftmtnt.

Prior.

;

tongue

fore him when in d't^ahiUt.

Ti Disha'bjt. t;. fl. [This word I have

The meat ferved in a difh ; any parti- Dishe'rison. n.f. {dis ;ini. herifon.] The

3.

P>fi.

Diforder by drink.
Vou fee we 've burnt our cheeks i and mine own

A woman, who would preferve a lover's refpejl

nefs ought in rcafon to dijhcartm

His few books, or his beads, or maple-</i/^;
ATdton.
Or do his grey hairs any violence ?

DiSGui'sE. ft./, [from the verb.]

for hypocrify in others.

Addifon.

A deep hollow vefTel for liquid food.

2.

have juft left the right worftiipful, and his
myrmidons, about a fneaker of five gallons : the
whole magiftracy was pretty well dijguiftd before I
gave them the flip.
SfeclaUr.
I

A drefs contrived to conceal the perfon

is

Of thciV he murders one ; he boils the flclh,
And lays the mangled morfels in a dijb. Drydin.

becaule Minerva made all things appear in a
d^jguijed view.
jPe^«.

I.

have finiihed the moii d ifgujlful talk that ever
Swift,

Latin.]
broad wide vefFel, in which food
1.
ferved up at the table.

Ulyfles wjkes, not knowing the place where lie

To deform by liquor

Dry den' i Dufrefney,

iifhaailU.

to deprefs.

DISH. n.f. [bij-c. Sax. dy/c, Erfe ; di/truj,

More duteous at her call,

3.

and/a//.]

A

o'er

2.

dijgafi

Naufeous ; that which cauies averfion.
I

With filth obfcene, and dropping putrid gore.

'

[

I undeitook.

They faw the tacts, which too well they knew,
Though then d'ljgu'ti" d in death, and fmear'd all

1

adj.

Swift.

;

to cloak by a falle Ihew : as, he d:J'gmfed

4.

:

jobbers, is, that they have no confcience.

To disfigure; to change the form.

drefled ; loofely or negligently dreffed.
Queens are not to be too negligently dreffed or

bitation.

marriage, he would

w'whfrom.
What di/gufit mcfrom having to do with anfwer-

3.

his anger.

was

It is

Aticrtury.
Thofc unenlarged fouls are dijgujltd tv'itb the
wonders which the microfcope hasdifcovered.

no wotnan't

Their parent fogn dil'ccrn'd thtuutjh his difguife.

3.

to offend.

never recommend it to his friend.

gown big enough for liim.
Sbahffiarii Aitny ff^nti of Wttiijar.
D;/gaij'</ he came ; but thod- his chiidren dear

z.

;

varioufly conftrufted with at or 'wUh,

To conceal by an unufual drefs.
Alas

To llrike with difllke

2.

gu{li.']
I.

:

to her perfon, will be careful of her appearance be-

1
I

That feems dlfgrackus in the city's eye. ShAcff.
7*0
1 5 G u I's E. V. a. [dcgui/tr, Fr. dh and

Swift DireCli-jtit totbiCook.

pinned at their tails.

Dish-washer, n.f. \_dijh ViAiMajhtr,\
The name of a bird mergus.
DISHABI'LLE.fl^. [dtfhabilli, Fr.] Un-

7e Di sou's T. V. a. [degouter, Fr. deguflo,

I

Unpleafing.

d'Jh-chut of Jaquenetta's he wears next hij
heart for a favour.
S'taktfp. l.oveU Lahcur Loft.
Send them up to their mafters with a dijh-chut

Dishabi'llb. n.f. Undrefs; loofe drefs.

I have given good advice to thofe infamous djfSwi/'r.

rub their

difhes.

Thence iuk dyguji and hatred, winding wiles.
Coward deceit, and ruffian viflence.
Thomfiji.

ignominy.
graetrs of the fen and calling.

cloth with which the maids

A

one that disfigures.

2.

DiSH-c LOUT. If. /[<///* and r/oa/.] The

up to table.
For coiifpiracy,
I know not how it taiies, though it be difi'd
For me to try,
Shakfffmre'i If'iKKr'i lalt.

;

to threw

the hair of a womsn negligently about
her head.
It is not often ufed but in
the paffive participle.

A gentle lad,

, all

alone

With garments rent and hair dfbcvelled.
Wringing her hands, and making piteous moan.
Sfrnftr.

After followrd great numbers of women weeping with dijhevelled hair, fcratching their faces,
and tearing themfelves, after the manner of the
country.
KnolUs.
_
troop of Trojaos mix*d with thefe appear,

A

And mourning matrons with difb'nelVd hair.
Dryden's jSvti/^

The flames, involv'd in fmoke

Of incenfe, from the facted altar broke,
Cau|)bt her dijlitvtll'd hair and rich attire.

Prydn'i iSneid.

Vou

D I S

D I S

You this morn beheld his iri:nt eye).
Saw his arm lock'd in her dj/hmell'ii hair. Smith.
Vi'sitih-G. aJj. [from dffi.] Concave: a

Than to take in a town with gentle wordfi|
Which elfe would put you to your fortune.

This no more dljhimurs you at all*

judged wife of all

but (he that dip-imureth
in her pride, (hall be counted ungodly of all.

Void of probity ; void of faiih ;
wicked ; fraudulent.

Difrancfi with lopp'd arms the youth appears,

Spoil'd of bii nofe, iiod dtorten'd of his ears.

Drydefu

rowed from the Latin idiom.
Her facred domes involv'd in rolling fire;
Pope.

Ing-'orious triumphs, 3X\i dijkcneji fears.

Disho'nestly. aJv. [from dijkonc/l.']
lefsly ;

and he that is dijbonourahlt in riches,
how much more in poverfy ?
Eclus. x. 31.

wickedly.

Disho'nourer. n.f. [from t/ijbcnour.]
1
One that treats another with indignity.

Lewdly ; wantonly ;

unchallely.

ing.
If he flood upon his own title of the houft of
Lancadcr, inherent in his perlbn, he knew it was
a title condemned by parliament, and generally
prejudged in the common opinion of the realm,

A violator of chaftity.
[<//V

To

and W/i.]

chat it fended dircOly to the difinhtrijon of the line

Wt'il dijhorn the fpirit.
And mock him home to Windfor.

Dishu'mour.
Pecviftinefs ;

of York.

[dii and humour^
humour ; uneafy ftate

prevent, and even oppof*, fuch difnhtrijon.

n./.
ill

Hacons Henry VII,
_

The chief minifter of the revenue was obliged to

Shaktffare.

Speaking impatiently to fervants, or any thin(:
that betrays inattention or dijbunnur, arc alfo cri-

2,

Cfarert,

The ftate of being cut ofl-'from an hereditary right.
In refpetl of the eft'edls and evil confequences,
the adultery of the woman is Worfe, as biinging
baftardy into a family, and difinhcrijom or great in*

Speaamr.

£cr. xxii. 4.

Disho'nESTy. n.f. [from
Want of probity ; faithlefsnel's ; vioI

frovemen/.] Reduction from a better to
a worfe ftate ; the contrary to meliora-

d;jhiinejt.'\

.

lation of trull.
Their fortune dqiendt upon their credit, tnd a
fiain of open public difxmifij muft be to their difStvift.

ativant.igc.

Z, Unchaftity ; incontinence ; lewdnefs.
Mrs. Ford, the honeft worn *n, the modeli wife,
the virtuous creature, thit hath the jc-alous f kjI to
I futpeA without caufe, millrcfs, do
tier hulband
Heaven be my witnefj you do, if you fufpril
I
Shairj'pearc.
me in any diptnifiy,
!

?—

Disho'nour. n.y.

[Jij and beitour.]
Reproach; difgrace ; ignominy.
Let not myjealoufies be yo»T diJ/Kmun,

SbaJtefptare't Muchetb.
But mine own fafeties.
He wa« pleafed to own Lazarus even in the dij-

tion ;

the contrary to improvement.

I cannot fee how this kingdom is at any height
of improvement, while four parts in five of the

plantations, for thirty years pall, have been real
dijimprvt'rmi'nlt.

Sioift.

ToDisinca'rcerate. -v. a. [dij&ndincar cerate. ]

To fet at liberty

;

to free

from prifon.
The arfenical bodies being now coagulated, and
kindled into flaming atoms, require dry and warm
air, to open the earth for to diftncai cerate the fame
vcnenc bodies.
Harvey.

D s N c L N a't \ou. n.f. [from dijincline. ]
1

I

bimcari of the grave, and vouchfafcd him, in that

Uifippointm^nt gave him a dijiteliraiian to "he
fairfex, for whom he does notexprcfs all rhe refpeQ

Take him for yotir hufband and your lord ;
'Tis no dijKnncur to coilfcr your grace
On oncdcfcended from a royal race. D'yd. Fai.'et.

poffible.

Reproach uttered ; cenfure ; report of
infamy.

So good, that DO tongne could ever
Pronounce JiJhut'Mr of her; by my life
She never knew harm d.jing. ULakcJp. Henry VIII

To Disho'mour. v. a.

To difgrace

;

and ffoiicur.]
to bring fhame upon ; to
[(/it

ill

jiriuihr.ot and Fopr.

7a Disincm'ne. -v. a. [dis and incline.]

To produce diflike to

;
to make difaffefted ; to alienate aft'eftion from.
They were careful to keep up the fars and ap.

prehcniions in the people of dangiirs and defigns,
and to difmcliiie them from any reverence or afj'cction to the queen, whom tlicy begun every Jay
more implacably to hate, and confequently to difoblige.

Clarendon.

DisiNGENu'iTY.

blaft with infamy.
It is no vicious blot,

murther, or foulnrfs^
No uiichafte aAion, or dijltncmr'd Hep,
That hath dcpriT'd me of your grace and favour.
ibaktjjitre.

««/.]

n f. [from difengenuMeannefs of artifice ; unfairnefs.

They conlraft a habit of ill-nature and difingenuiiy

;

to

deprive ofan inheritance.

The unborn nephews for the father's fault ? Davits.
Unmufflc, ye faint ftars ; and thou, fair moon,
Scoop thy pale vifage through an amber cloud.
And diJJ>inberit chaos that reigns here
In double night of darkncfs, and of llander. Milt*
Poflerity Hands curs'd
fair patrimony,
That I muft leave ye, fons 6 were 1 able
To wjfle it all myfclf, and leave ye none ;
So difti:bcritedf how would ye bleis
Me, now your turfe
Milton.
!

I

!

Of how fair a portion Adam dijinhtrited hi«
whole poflerity by one fingle prevarication

!

.South.

To Disinte'r. v, a. [from dis and infer.]
To unbury ; to take as out of the grave,

I

defpicable condition, the glorious trti': of hi^ frivrnd.
lit Sera/biri Lavt.

By

To cut off from an hereditary right
Is it then juft with us to dijinberit

The final ilfue of the matter would be, an uttci
negleO and dijimfrovtmrnt of the earth.
Norrii.

V/ant of afteftion ; flight ; diftike ;
will not heightened to averfion.

I .

The aft of cutting off from any hereditary fucceffion ; the aft of difmherit-

1.

Aii/tOH.

minal.

is

;

2.

Givctnment of the Tongue.

Disinhe'rison. n.f. [dis and iniierit.]

to the lawful children.
Taylor.
A wife daughter (hall bring an inheritance to DisiMPRo'vEMENT. n.f. [dis and im- Tojuries
Disinhe'rit. -v. a. [dis and inherit.']
her
but Ihe that Uv«th dijhamfilj
her hufljand

father 's beavinefi.

1.

which their own heart\have an inward reluilancc.

Preaching how meritorious with the gods

ToDisho'rn. t;. a.

[from di^n-

I might prefs them with the unrcafonahlenefs,
the dijir.genuovjnfji uf embracing a piofcl'ion to

It would be, to enfnare an irreligious
Di/h':Ttsurfr of Vi^on.

n.J'.

fubtilty ; unfairnefs;

riches ?

of mind.

h« had the chain of me,
Tho' m^ft iWJhwijilj he doth deny it. Shaiejpean.

Mean

Tow craft.

Dan.
2. Being in a ftate of negledl or difefteem.
He that is honoured in poverty, how much more

faith-

I proteft

2.

gettuous.']

ftrip of horns.

A dreadful feries of intcftine wars,
Without faith; without probity;

nuous.] In a difingenuous manner.

Disi nce'nuousness.

Thofe articles which did our ftate decreafe.

in

Stillingfeil,

Disinge'nuously. fl;/i;. [from dijinge-

;

2.

She faw her fons with purple death expire.

tlons.

There cannot be any thing fo diJlvgenuOKS and
mifbecoHiing any rational creature, us not to yield
to plain reafon, and the conviflion of cleat arguments.
Locke.

'

Shameful ; reproachful ignominious.
He did difhonouraiU iind

1

Thefe two
4. Difgraceful ; ignominious.
fenfes are fcarcely Englifh, being bor-

1.

a judgment of reafon concerning ths nature of ac-.

Disho'novrable. adj. [from^ij^omiir.]

Difgraced ; dilhonoured.

3.

a judgment of charity concerning their church, to

One glimpfe of glory to my ilTue give,
Grac'd for the little time he has to live !
pyhoticiird by the king of men he (lands;
His rightful prize is raviOi'd from his hands.
Drydtn^s Iliad.

Hu lays it down as a principle, that right and

Dsiih.

It-.vas a difingcnuoui way of proceeding, to oppofr.

Drydin't Dvfrefncy.

To violate chaftity.
3. To treat with indignity.

to

todifire to be a woman of the wurld.
Slaktfpeare's yk yau like it.

In the fame Itudics, the fame courfe to hold,

Nor think our reafon for new arts too old.

2.

by a gloiing appetite, for an utile or jucundum
turn Jhe balance to a falfe or dijhmtji fentence.
Scuit.

2. Unchaile ; lewd.
Tij-morrow will we be married.— I do defire it
with a'l my heart ; and 1 hope it is no liipwifi de-

Of idlenefs, who all our pow'rs engage

thofe virtues appear in us which realty we have
not, as to avoid thole imperfections which may
di/hor.r.m lis,

wrong, honed and diponj}, are denned only by
L'^cke,
laws, and not by nature.

'Tis djijigenuous to accufe our age

him

Eccl. xxvi. 16.

faith-

Jurtice then was neither blind to difcern, nor
lame to execute. It was not fubjeft to be impofed upon by a deluded fancy, nor yet to be bribed

fire,

:

We are not io much to ftrain ourfelves to make

[iih znd bonfji.]

lefs ;

ing a genllemln ; crafty.

A woman that honoureth her hufband, fiiall be

For the form of t' - wheels, fome make them
more dijhi^ig, as they call it, than others ; that is,
more concave, by fccting offtiie fpoket and tellies
Mortimtr.
more outwards.

1

Dtsi ti a e'uvovs, adj. [dis^nd ingtmroat.']
meanly artful ; vitioufly fubUnfair
tle ; fiy ; cnnning ; illiberal ; unbecom;

S hnk<:Jpuire^ I CcrioUnus.

cant term among artificers.

Disho'nest. «<^'.

D i S

ncccnary

to their affairs, and the tcnipci ut

thofe upon whsm they arc to vwrk.

Cljrcndsn.

Th.; philofopher, the faint, or the hero, the wile,
the good, or the great man, very often lie hid aid
concealed in a plebeian, which a proper educatioa
might have diftnterrcd.
Addijon.

Disi'nteressed. v.f, [dis, &nd in'erej/'e,
French.
thofe

It is written

diftutnefied

by

who derive it immediritely from

interfji, and
1
think more properly.]
Without .-egard to private advantage ;

not biafted by particular views; impartial.

Not that tradition's parts arc ufelefs here,

When general, old, diftntetej's' d, and clc^ir. Dryden.
Dl'siNTERESS.MENT. n.f. [dli, aud /«terffftment,

French.]

r3irregard to pri-

vate advantage ; difintereft ; dilintereft-

This word, like charges in the'
fame fentence, is merely Galiick.
He has managed fome of tiie charges of th.'
cdnefs.

3

Z 2

kingdotn

D I S
with cntite difimtreffrntnt.

Drsjoi'NT. participle, [from the verb.]

Friar's Poffcrift.

Disi'kterest. »./

Separated ;

[dis An^ intertft.'\

which any one is concerned to prevent.
They judge it the great difintereji to Rome.
2. Indifference to profit ;

fuperiority to

Our (late to be disjoint and out of frame.

Judgment ; determination perhaps only
miflaken for dijudication.
:

vonrite paflion than yourfclf.

H-wift.

affair

Disjv'kct. adj.

[disJunSus, Lat-I
joined ; feparate.

Lat.]

Disi'nterestedly. aJv. [from di/in-

loal part juftly fupplics the part of the foul ; and
the violent feparation of this from the other, does

Thefc citpveflions of -felfi/hnefs and difimer^ednefs have been ufed ia a very loofe and indetermi-

Brovin.

as certainly infer death and di(rolution, as the dif

junflion of the body and the foul in the natural.

y« Disi'ntricatb. v. a, [du and ifitri-

To difentangle.

DiO.

To Disinvi'te. i». a. [du and in'vite.]

To retraa an invitation.

South.

Disju'nctive. adj.

[disJunSi'vus, Lat.]

Incapable of union.

1.

Diil.

Such principles, whofe atoms are of that rfii/V/w-

9'o Disjoi'n. -v. a. [dejoittdre, Fr.dij and

tive nature, ai not to be united in a fufBcient num-

To feparate

;

to part from each

other ; to di(unite ; to funder.

ber to make a vifiblc mafs.

JVtsitt.

Left different degree

[In logick."]

3.

is
other by
either day or night ; The tueather is either

disjunftive particles: as, //

Drydcn.

Jhiny or rainy ; ^antity is either length,
The truth of disjuncbreadth, or depth.
tidies depends on the neceffary and im-

Never let us lay down our arms againft France,
till we have utterly disjoined her &om the Spanifli
monarchy.
Addifin.
^

mediate oppofition of the parts, therefore only the laft of thefe examples is
but the two firft are not ftriftly
true
true ; becaufe twilight is a medium between day and night ; and dry cloudy
weather is a medium between ftiining

[dis andJoiHt.]

To pnt out of joint.

S.

Be all their ligaments at once unbound.

:

And their disjointed bones to powder ground.
Sandys*

Yet what could fwords or poifon, racks or flame,
But mangle and disjoint the brittle frame ?
More fatal Henry's words ; they murder'd Emma's
fame.

Prior.

To break at junfliires

2.

;

to feparate

at

the part where there is a cement.
Mould'ring arches, and disjoimtd co\umns.
Irene.

To break in pieces

3.

;

IVattt's Logick.
and raining.
A disjunfiive fylloglfm is when the major propofition is disjunliivc : as, ilbe earth moves in a cirele, or an ellifjis ; but it does not move in a circle,
fVatts '» Logiik.
therefore it moves in an cllipfis.

DiSjt;'NCTivEl.Y. adv.

*
Diftinftly ; feparately.
What he obferves of the numbers diijunSIively

to dilaniate.

and apart, reafon fuggeds to be applicable to the
whole body united.
Caufes of the Decay of Piety.

DISK. n.f. [di/cus, Lat.]
The face of the fun, or any planet, as
1
it

5.

To carve a fowl.
To make incoherent

}Vatts.

which are

Sidney,

But now her grief has wrought h,er into frenzy;

The images her troubled fancy forms
Arc incoherent, wild ; her words disjointed. Smith.

To fall in pieces.

Let both worlds disjoint, and all things I'ufi'er,

Srt wc will eat our meal ia fear.

Stak, MiKtttk,

fall

upon a circle anfwerNewton,

Mercury's dijk

lation between the parts.
Theconftancy of your wit was not wont to bring

y« DisjOi'nT. V. n.

Dryden.

It is to be confidftcd, that the cays,

ing to the fun's diji.

to break the re-

forth fuch diijiititcd fpeechet.

This fenfe is not now in ufe.
This faid Aletes, and a murmur rofe
That (hew'd dijlike among the chriftian peers.
_.

lairfaxm

,

To DiSLi KE.

-v. a.

[dis

and Hie.]

What moft he (hould dijlike, fcems pJeafant t»
him;

What like, olFenfive.
Slakefj>eare'i King Lear.
Ye dijlike, and fo undo
The players, and difgrace the poet too. Denham.
VfhoCcicvtr dijlikes the digreflions, or grows weary

of them, may throw them away.

Temple.

Disli'kepul. adj.\dijlike and /a«.]
Difaffefted ; malign : not in ufe.
I think it bcft, by an union of
manners, and
conformity of minds, to bring them to be one people, and to put away thtdiJlikeJulcot\cek
of the one
and the other.
Spenfer's Ireland.

To Disli'ken. "r. a.

[dis and liken.]

make unlike. Unufual.

To

Muffle your face,
Difraantlc you ; and, as you can, diftikem
The truth of your own fecming.
Shakefpeare't fTinttr"! Takt

Disii'keness.

71./.

Diffimilitude ;

no»

[dis

and lUene/s.]

refemblance ; un-

likenefs.
That which

is not deligned torepre(ent any
thing but itfelf, can never be capable of a wrong

reprcfcntation, normifleadus from the true

apprfany thing by its dijlikenefs to it; and
fuch, excepting thofe of fublUiices, art all our
hci.fion of

i«>r.

DislTker. n.f. [from dijiite.]

A difap-

prover ; one that is not pleafed.
There is a point, which whoever can touch,
will never fail of plcafing a majority, (o
great that
the dijlikm will be forced to faU in with
the herd.

Can fcarce be caught by philofophic eye.
Loft in the near clfulgciice.

2.

To

difapprove ; to regard without affetlion
;
to regard with ill will or difguft.

complex ideas.

Appears at firft but as a bloodlhot eye.
equally refrangible, do

;

liumoar and fancy, than upon reafon. L'EJirjnge.
Sorrow would have been as filent as thought, at
fevere as philofophy.
It would have refted in inward fenfes, tacit </i/li>M.
South.
The jealous man is not angry if you diflUe an.
other ; but if you find thoft faults which are in his
own charafter, you difcover not only your i/j/toe of
another, but of himfelf.
MJifon.
2. Difcord i
diffcnfion ; difagreement.
_

own

appears to the eye.

The di/i of I'habus, when he climbs on high.

1

4.

[from disjunc-

tive-l

Rotation muft difpcrfe in air
All things which on the rapid orb appear;
And if no power that motion ihould controul.
It rouft diijihl and dilTipate the whole. Bleckmtre,
Should a barbarous Indian, who had never fccn
a palace or a (hip, view the feparate and disjointed
parts, he would be able to form b|ft a very lame and
dark idea { el.her of thofe excellent and ufeful
inventlori.

A disjunftive propofition

when the parts are oppofed to one an-

is

Together we had liv'd ; cv'n not in death dUjc'm'd.

yoDisjoi'uT. -v. a.

Hammond's PraSi. Catechifm.

Gretu.

sition : as, J love him, or fear him.
1 here are I'uch words as disjuiili'ive conjundlnns.

Shakeffeartf
new birth,

Our likings or dipkei are founded rather upon

That which marks feparation or oppo-

2.

Never (hall my harp thy praife
Forget, nor from thy father's praife (//j/m/i. Milton.
Dlijo'm us, and I then too late renounce
Deity for thee, yvhen fate will not permit. MiUon.
Happier for me, that all our hours aflign'd

God's grace, that principle of tiis
gives him continual dijlike to (In.

iibakeffeare's fVinter's Tale.

There is a great analogy between the body natural and politic, in which the ccclcfiallical or fpiri-

Contempt of private intcreft ;
negleft of perfonal profit.
nate manner.

n. Jl
[from disJunSiio,
Difunion ; feparatiun ; parting.
You may

Your ruin.

terefttd. ]

Join. ]

Their contrary dijlikes with loved means.
Did place them all in order, and compel
To keep themfelvcs within their fundry reigns,
Togcibcr link'd with adamantine chains. Sfenjer.
Your dif.ikes, to whom I would be plcafing.
Do cloud oiy joys with danger and with forrow.

Dif-

Enjoy your mlftrefs now, from whom you fee
There's no disjunHiein to be made, but by

terejied.']
In a difinterefted manner.
JDlSI NTERESTEDNESS. «./ [itOlSL difin-

ea/e.']

Difinclination ; abfence of affeflion
the contrary to fondnefs.
He then them took, and tempering goodly well

1.

Disj u'nction.

;

to the caufe, that it docs it a real fervice.

ff^oodward,

Biyle on Coltirs,

As d'lfinterified as you appear to the world, no
man is more in the power ot that prevailing ta-

kinJne/s.']

DiSLi KE. n.f. [from tlie verb]

The difpofitJon uf the organ is of great importance in the disjudicai'iom we make of colours.

not influenced by private profit.

an

reft

Shake/peare's flam!et,

Disjudica'tion. «./. [dijudicalio, Lat.]

1. Superior to regard of private advantage;

and

triment.
This difcourfe is fo far from doing any difltind-

Thinks by our late dear brother's death

regards of private advantage.

[dis

n. /.

Want ofTcindnef*; want of-affedlion ;

1.

2. Ill turn ; injury j a£l of malignity ; de-

Holding a weak fuppofal of our worth,

Disi'nterested. aJj. [from Jijinlereft.'\

2. Without any concern in
without fear or hope.

Diski'ndness.

want of benevolence.
Young Fortinbras,

fperity ; that

Glanv'Ue^

We now write

divided.

disjointed.

What is contrary to one's wifh or pro-

1.

D I S

D I S

kingdom with known ability, and laid them down

Svfift,

Thomfcn,

A broad piece of iron thrown in the ancient fports ; a quoit.
The cryftal of the eye, which in a fifli Is a ball,
in any land anVmal is a di/i or howl; being hereby
iitted for the clearer light of the object.

Crew.

In areas varied with mofaic art,

Some whirl the diJi, and fonc the j av'lin dart. Pope,

To Disli'mb. -v. a.

[dis and linti.]

Tq

dilaniate; to tear limb from limb. Z>/V7,
To Disli'mn. -v. a. [dis and limn.] To
unpaint ; to ftrike out of a pifture.
1 hat which is now a harfe, even with a thought
The rack dijlimns, and makes it indillinft
A« w»tet is in water.
Sbakejf. Ant. and Cleop,

iT.Dt'sto-

'

D 1 S

D rs
Te Dt'sLOC AT E

a, [dis, and/ofaJ,Lat.]

<r;.

.

DrSMAL. adj. [dies titalus, Latin, an evil Disma'vedness. n.f. [ from flV/Jaaj. ]

After fame time the itrata on all fides of the
globe were Jijlocaic', and their fituation varied, being elevated in lome pla^.J, and dep;efli;d in others.

The valianteft feels inward difmayednefs, and yet
the fearfulleft is afliamed fully to fliew it. Sidney.

; to disjoint.
Wcre't my iitnefs
To let rhefc hands obey my boiling blood,
They're apt eflough to dijlocate and tear
Shakiffeare'i King Lear.
Thy flefli and bones.

On all fides from innumerable tongues

A difmal univerfal hifs.

DiSLOC a'tion. Ti./. [from dijlocate.
1. The aft of (hifting the places of things.
2. The Hate of being difplaced.

Since thefirft fwordwasdrawnaboutthis queftioir,
Fv'ry tithe foul 'mongft many thoufand difmes.
Hath been as dear as Helen.

Milton.

The pope began to exercife his new rapines by a
compliance with king Edward, in granting him

Shakefp. froilui and Crejfida,

,

The difmal fituation y.aftf and wild,.

"l

A dungeon horrible

two years difme from the clergy. Ayl'iff^i Parergon*
[dis and member.}

Milton.

"

Such a variety ^f difmal accidents muft hare
broken the fpirits of iny man.
Clarendon.
On the one hand fet the moft glittering temptations to.difcord, and on the other view the difmal
elTciSiofit.
Decay of 'Piety,
\
]

To Disme'mber. f. a.

To divide member from member ;

"

The poflure of rocks, often leaning or proftrate,
fhews that they had fome dijhcaticn from their naBurnet.
tural fite.
,

3.

A luxation

a violent preffure of a
bone out of the fockct, or correfpondent
part ; a joint put out.
It might go awry either

within or without the

upper, a» often as it is'forcibly pulled to it, and fo

Grnv^i Muf^tim.

caufe a tlijlcciiticn, or a ftraln.

To Dislo'dce.

"v.

a.

\dis and loJ^e.'\

To remove from a place.

1.

The /he!l-fi(h which are refidcnt in the deptlis
live

Dreadful gleams,'
Difmal fcreains.

'•

<

They whirl afunder, a^id difmemier me. Shakefp»
O, that we then could come by Csefar's fpirit.

Pcfe.

Hor-

And not difnember Cjefar
Caefar mult bleed for it.

ribly ; forrowfully;- uncomfortably.

•

Di'sMA^LNEss. ti.J'. [^from <///««/.]
rour ; forrow.

I

nude.

I

Shahfpeare^

dying carcafs.
Snift^
Fowls obfcene difmcmher^d his remains,
And dogs had torn him on the naked plains.

I

.

and die there, and are never dijl'idgcd or re-

but, alas

deplorable crifis, than when fome prince lies hovering, like a vulture, to devour ot difmemier its

-

•

!

A ftate can never arrive to its period in a more

Hor-

To Disma'ntLb, %;.<*; 'TdSs and mantle.]
I
To deprive of a df/^ iijto ftrip ; to de-

iTiOvcd by ftorms, nor caft upon the fhores ; whicii

.

'

He that makes his prince defpifcd and underva-

Pope's Odyjfey.-

the littorales ufuiilly ate.

lued,

and beats him out of his fubjefts hearts,

Thofe who contemplate only the fragments or
difcourfes, can never lurvey an entire body of truths

The fjul dijhdg:ng from another feat.

may eafily ftrip him of his other garrifcns, having
already difpulftffed him of his llrongeft, by dijmantling him of his honour,, and feizing his reputa.,

Wmdviard.
2. To remove from an habitation.
Tliefe fenfes loft, behold a new defeat.

To drive an enemy from a ilation.

3.

To loofe

z.

My fword can perfect what it ha: begun.
'

Drydeti.

The VolfcianJ arc djjjtdg'd, and Marcus gone.
Sbakefpeare,

adj.

[deflojal,

Jlfillcn.

French;

dit

'\

Not true to allegiance ; faithlefs ; falfe
to a fovereign ; difobedient.
Foul oiflruft, and breach
Dijloyal; on the part of man, revolt
*
difubedlence.
Milieu.
.And
Obfolete.
2. Difhoneft ; perfidious.
Such things, in i falfe dijloyal kn^Lve,
Are tricks of cuftom ; but, in a man that 't juD,
They're cold delations working from the heart,
1.

That pallion cannot rule.

Sbakefpeare'i Othello.

Not true to the marriage bed.

3.
I

:'.

.r

,

fViiits.

a.

[dimijfus,

We commit thee thkher,
Until his army be dfmifi'd from him.
^!

1

I

Shakefpeare'i Henry IV,

He i/j/ini^i/ tlic affembly.

.<&^J, xix.41.

To give leave of departure.

a.

If our young liilus be no more,

It is not fufticient to polfefs our own fort, with-

The lady is dijloyal.
The word is too good to paint out
Dijl-yal !

her wickedneis.

SbakeJJieare.

Dijloyal town

To bre..Ic down any thing external.
His eyeballs, rooted out, are thrown to ground ;
His nofe difmaMltd in his mouth is found ;
pis jaws, cheeks, front, one undiftiagui/h'd
wound.
Jh-yden.
;

ToDisma'sk. v. a. [<//> and w(i/?.]

D'lfmiji our navy from your friendly fhore.

r

;

Dislo'yally. adv. [from diJloyal.'\ Not
faithfully ;lreacheroufly ; ditobqdiently.

[from dijloyai.]

Want of fidelity to the fovereign.
Let the truth of that religion I profefs be reprefented to judgment, not in the difgulfes of levity,
fchlfm, herefy, novelty, zni dijlyatty. K.Charlti.

2. Want of fidelity in love. A fenfe now
obfolete.
There Ihall appear fuch fceming truths of Hero's
difojalty, that Jc<Uou(^0>aU be called afTurance.

Hbakejfegre.

So p jis'd, fo gently fhe defcends from high.
Dryden^

fice or place.

Not only thou degrad'ft them, or remit'ft

To life obfcurr, which were a fAir difmij/ion
high.

To DISMA'Y. V. a. [dejmayar, Spanifh.]
to difcourage j to affright
to depr'efs ; to dejeft.
Their mighty ftrokcs their haberjeons difmay'd.
;

Enemies would not be fo troublefome to the
weftern coafts, nor that country itfelf vwould be (o
often difmayed with alarms as they have of late
years been.
Raltigb's Ejfays.

He will not fail thee | fear not, neither be difiDeal.

Nothing can make him remifs in the prafljce ot
his duty; no profpeft of intercft can allure him, no
fear of danger difmay hint.

of courage ;

_

jitterlury,

Milton's Agor.iftei.

_

Deprivation ; obligation to leave any

3.

poft or place.
You muft not ftay here longer j your difmijfioit
Is come from Casfar.
Sbakefp. Jint. andCleop,

To Dismo'rtgage. f. «. [dis and mort"
gage.]
To redeem from mortgage.
He difmortgaged the crown demefncs, and left
behind a mafs of gold.

htmnl's Vocal Foreji,

7ff

DisMo'uNT. f. a. [demonter, French.!

1.

To throw off an horfe.
From this flying ftced unrein'd, as once
Bellerophon, though from a lower clime,
Difmountedt on th' Alci.in field I fall.
Milton^

To throw from any elevation or place
of honour.
3. To throw a cannon from its carriage.
The Turks artillery, planted againft that tow2.

was by the Chriftian cannoneers dij'mounted
with (hot from the tower, and many of the gun-

\defmayo, Spanjlh.] Fall
terrour felt ; defertion of

er,

ners (lain.

mind ; fear imprefled.

Knollet,

^

All fate mute,
Pondering the danger with deep thoughts ; and each
In other's countenance read his min difmay. Milt.
This then, not minded in difmay^ yet now
AITures me that the biltetncfs of dcach
Is f»ft.

;

But throw'ft them lower than thou didft exalt them

The marquis thought beft to difmajk his beard ;
and tol.'l him that he was going covertly, JVottm.

Disma'y. n.f.

An honourable difcharge from any of-

2.

Sbakcfjjcare,

mayed.

to diveft of an office.

It feems a fnfc difmijjion from the (ky.

are rofts' blown,

DifmafiCd, their damalk fweet commixture (hewn.

To terrify

;

DlSMi'ssiON. n.f. [fiom dimijjio, 'Lzt.'\
1. Difpatch ; aft offending away.

Fair ladies malk'd are rofes in tlje butj,

Or angels viil'd in clouds

apenfer.

4. Falfe in love ; not conftant. The three
latter fenfes are now obfolete.

n.f.

To

Dryden's yirgif.

To difcard

'3.

divelt of a mafic ; to uncover i'rom concealment.

'.

Speak, did ft nut thou
Forfake thy faith, and break the nuptial vow }
Dryden.

DiSLo'y Ai.TY.

Haktiuill.

4.

Latin.]

To fend away.

'I.
;

out thc^{^<3fff//ii^aoddcmolifhingof our enemies.

Soon at midnight brought on the dulky hour,
Friendiieft to fleep, and filencc, he refoiv'd

and loyal.

.

To ftrip a town of its oat\yorks.

3

Togo away to an-

other place.

Disloy'al.

.;.,

Deareft and beft, (hould in this trice of time
Commit a thing fo monftrous, to difmantle
So many folds of favour. ShakeffieareU King Lear.

The ladies have prevail'd ;

With all his legions to difoJge.

unconnefted

fliort

herid.

To DISMI'SS. V.

This is moft ftrange !
That (he, who ev'n but now was your beft objeft,

To remove an arniy to other quarters.

To Dislo'dce. o/. ».

in

but muft always view it as deformed and difmem-

Soutb.

to throw off a dreft ; to throw

;

open.

And from your walls dijlodge that haughty fon.
4.

pieces of fcicnce difperfed

'

lion.

Drydcn't Juvenal.

1

I am with both, each army hath a hand ;
And in their rage, I having hold of both,

j

1

Di'sMALLY. adv. [from (iV/wa/.J

to

dilacerate ; to cut in pieces.

,

'

;

th»

Milton.

Nor yet in horrid ihade or difmal den.
Nor n'^cent yec ; but on the gtalTy herb
Fearlefs, unfear'd, he flept.

j

tenth part ; tythe.

He hears

To put out of joint

A tenth

DTSME. n.f. [French.]

The thane of Cawder'gan a difmal con&'id. Shah.

ffcodiaard.

2.

Dejeftion of courage ; difpiritedneifs.

day.]
Sorrowful ; dire ; horrid ; melancholy J uncomfortable ; unhappy ;
dark.

To put out of the proper place.

1

Miltttn.

To Dl 3 mo' IT NT. V, ».
I.

To alight from an horfe.
When he came witliiii fight of that prodigiou*
army at Agincourt, he ordered all his cavalry.
dij'munl, aad implore upon their knees a bleliingr.,
Mdifon't Vreebolder

Z,

T»

•

D I S

D I S
2.

D SO 8 L I'c N c participial adj. [h^Vn dif- Diso'rdebedness. n.f. [from difordtr-

To defcend from any elevation.
turalize.]

To

oili^e.]

-v.

Unnatural ; wanting natural tendcrnefi
devoid of natural afFeftion. Unufoal.
If (he muft tteiDi

ed.'\

Confufed ; immethodical ; without pro*
per diftribution.

ing.] In a difgufting or offciifive manner; without attention to, pleafe.

Thofe obfoUte laws of Henry I. were but Jif.
orderly, confulied, and general things ; rather ca^s

I.

and uells of adminiliration than inftitutioui.

Sbakefpeare^s King Lear,
Disobli'gingness. n.f. [froin di/obliging.] Offenfivenefs ; readinefs to dilgiift.
Disobb'dience. »./.' [dis and obedience.']
Diso'rbed. a<3jf. [dis and ori.] Thrown
I. Violation of lawful command or prohi-

tbemfelves at the mercy o( thofe hungry and dif-

Fly like chidden Mercury from Jove,
J

Of tH/eieJUuct, or unduteous title.

French.]

Want of regular difpofition

I.

Of that forbidden tree, ling heav'nly mufc.

rity ; confufion ;

Mitttn.

Murder, adultery, or JifibeJhue to. prirenti,
have a general notion antecedently to laws.

irregula-

'

immethodical dillribu-

I

;

tion.
I

When I read an author of genius without mt-

an(^ ftrength.

thod, I fancy rajfelf iq a wood that abounds with
many noble objefts, rifirig amonij one anotliec in

Siiil'mgfiec:.
\

the greacfft confufion and diforder.

I

Sptlfator.

Tumult ; difturbance ; buftle.
A greater favour this dijurdtr brought

Z.

i. Incompliance.
if planetary orbs the fun obey.

He reproved them for their difarderly afiemblies
againii the peaceable people of the realms.

Around the globe terreftial Ihould fl>e run ?
This dijihediince of the moon will prove

•
\

Haytvard.

Unto her fervants, than their a%vful thouglt
Durft entertain, when thus compell'd they preft

Why ihould the moon difown his fovereign fway
Why in a whirling eddy of her own
3.

The jiclding nK-rble of her fnowy bread,
Negleft of rule ; irregularity.

BiMkawe.

Disobe'dient. adj. [dh u\d. cliedient.]
Not obfervant of lawful authority guilty

ffellcr.

4.

prohibition.

turus, and difordtr in marriages.

Kingi, xlii. l6.

economy which

To

[dis and oLeji.]

It is ufed commonly

The punifhment of dilTolutc days. Milt, yiginijirs,

,

right direction ; thrown out of the pro-

j

6. Difcompofure

Disoblica'tion. h. /, [dit and obligaIf be receded from what he had proniifedi it
would be fuch a JifMigtitim to the prince that \k
Clarcvdtn.
would never forget it.
There can be no malice^ and.con&quently no
crime or dijclllgauon.
VEJlmngt.

ordinate.
Thcfe not diferdhate, yet caofclefs foffer

fick-

of mind ; turbulence of

oidniy.

Offence; caufe of difgull.

health ;

Diso'rdin ATELY. adv. [from dij'ordi-

She abfjlutely bade him, and hcd^rft notjkaow

tion.']

^Tbeff..

Diso RDINATE. adj. [dts and ordinate.]
Not living by the rules of virtue j in-

26.

for a flight difeafe.
Pleafure and pain are only dlfferfint conl^itutions of the mind, fometimcs occafioned by ti'^~
order in the body, or fomctimes by thoughts in the
Locii-.
mind<

tions.

He's loth to di/cbty the god's command,
Nor willing to forfake this pleafant land. Dt'ibam.

caufes

nefs ; dillemper.

break con^mandf, or tranfgref^ prohibi-;

how to difoiey,

fl^ifd. xiv.

Breach of that regularity in the animal

'5.

'

Raieigt.

Without law ; inordinately.

We behaved not ourlelves dijorderly among you.

There reigned in all men blood, manilaughter,
difcjuicting of good men, forgctfulnefs of good

The man of God waj Jifibediail unto the word

and abfolutely be faid to war.
z.

inftitytion.

;

DisoBE'y. V. a.

gularly ; confufedly.
Naked favages fighting dfordcrly with ftones,
by appointment of their commanders, ra.iy truly!

And fnatch a grace beyond the reacii of art. Pofe.
Bre.ich of laws ; violation of ftanding

of the breach of lawful commands, cr

t

Dtso'RDERLY. «</t/. [fiom di/order.]
I. Without rule; without method; irre-

From vulgar bounds with brave dijardrr part,

The fun's br ightorb does qot the planets more.

of the Lord.

Mdifn.
Lawlefs ; contrary to law ; inordinate ;
contrary to the rules of life ; vitious.

3.

;

Rogers.

ing all allt^giance to his authorit)'.

Bac^ru

His thoughts, which are the piflures and refults of palnons, are generally fuch as naturally
arife from thofe dijorderly motions of our fpirits.
Drydtn.
A difarderly multitude contending with the body
of the lejjiflature, is like a man in a fit under
the condud of one in the fulnefs of liii health

Diso'rder. n.f. [dis and order ; defordre,

Sbah/ftari.

This is not difobrdUnce, but rebellion ; 'tis disclaiming the fovereignty of Chrift, and renounc-

ordirly people.

Sbak. Tioilui and Crtjfid».

Or like a ftar difirb'd.

;

Of man's firft difibidicnei, and the fruit

STtf

lUU.
Irregular ; tumultuous.
They thought it the extremelt ofevilito pot

$.

out of the proper orbit.

bition ; breach of duty due to fuppfi-

Th' oSisace is holy that (he hath committed
And this deceit lofes the name of craft,

want of order; con.

Disoj^Li'oitidiY. adv. [from difoblig-

Create her child of fplcen, that it may live.
And be a thwart itijiuiur'd torment to her.

ours.

Irregularity J

By that diftrdertdntfi of the foldiers, a great
advantage was offered unto the enemy.
Kmllti^
Diso'rderly. adj. [from dij'order.]

PeremptoriAels can befit no form bf unJetftlpdit renders wife men dij'ohlighr and trouWefoJnc, and fooh ridiculoui and contemptible.
G(rveri:mtvt of ihi tcrgue.
ing:

and naturt. ]

[ dis

.

Difgufting; unplcafiijg ; offcn

fufion.

to deprive of the privileges of birth.

DiSN a'turbd. adj.

I

I

a. dit and naalienate ; to make alien ;

7# Disna'turali/.e.

paflions.

To D so'r D E R

.

a. [dis and order."]

t».

To throw into confufion; to confound

',1.

to put out of

I

ruifle ;

method ;

;

to dillurb ; to

nate.]

Inordinately; vitioufly.

Diso'rientated. adj.

[dis i.nd orient.]

Turned from the eaft ; turned from the
per place.
Harris.
To Diso'wN. <i>. a, [dis and o-iun.]
1. To deny ; not to allow.
1'hcn they, who brotiier's better claim rfi/oTOff,
Expel their parents, and ufurp the throne.

to confufe.

Drydets j^ne-d,

'

^0 DISOBLl'GE. v.a. [dis sni oblige.]

To offend
to.

;

to difguft ; to give offence

A term by which ofience is tenderly

Eve,

Not fo repuls'd, with tears' that ceas'd not flowing.

And trdTes all diforder'd, at his feet
Stones rent from ftones, where clouds of dull arife,
Drydtn.
The incurfions of the Goths, and other barba-

Alhlcy had been removed from that charge, and
was thereby fo much dijotligal, that he quitted the

AddijoH'i FreehMr.

My plan has given offence to fomc gentlemen,
whom it would not be very fafe to di/Migr.
Addipn'i Guardian.
love and cfteem our clergy, and arc apt to
lay feme weight npon their opinion, and would

We

Slot willingly difeiligt them.

Snvtft ionc/rnittg tbe Sacramftitai Te/t.

If a woman fu/Tcrs her lover to fee Oic is loth
t9 JijMie hita, let hec beware of an cncroacher.
Clarija.

2.

To make fick
as,

3.
4..

to difturb the

;

body :

my dinner diforders me.

To difcompofe to difturb the mind.
To turn out of holy orders to dcpofe

When an author has pubiickly difonmd a fpuTo DISPA'ND. -v. a.

The aftofdifplaying; the aft of fpixading ; diffufion ; dilatation.

To DISPA'RAGE.

-v.

a.

[from di/par,

Latin.]
1.
;

to ftrip of ecclefiaftical vcilmcnts.
Let him be ftript, and dijordtred I would fain
fee him walk in qucrp-i, that the world may bo-

2.

orderly ; irregular ; vitious ; loofe ; unrellrained in behaviour ; debauched.
Here do you keep a hundred knights and fquires.
Men fo diforder'd, Co dcbaucli'd and boW,

That this our court, infefteJ with their mannerf.
Shews like a riotous ino. SkakeJ{rart't KmgLear.

To match unequally; to injure by
union with fomething inferiour in excellence.

hold the inlide of a fiiar. DryJi.n's Sf'CniJb Friar.

Dif-

To marry any one to another of inferiour condition.

;

Diso'rdbred. adj. [from di/order,]

[difpando, Latin.]

To difplay ; to fpread abroad.
Din.
Dispa'nsion. n.f. [from di/pan/us, Lat.]

;

;

to renounce.

rious piece, they have difputcd his name with him

rous nations, dijt/rdered the affairs of the Roman
Arbutbr.'.t,
empire.

C/nrcndtn.

Thofe, though in higticQ place, who (Dj^ht and
iijMige their friends, fliall infallibly come to
luiow the value of them, by having none when
Somb.
ihey fliall mod need them.
It is in the power of more particular perfons in
this kingdom, than in any other, to diltrcfs the
government, when they are difiliged.

;

Svii/r.

Von dijordcr^d heap of ruin lies,

cxpreffed.

king's party.

Millsn.

Fell humble.

To abnegate

2.

To injure by a comparifon with fomething of lefs value.
To treat with contempt ; to mock ; to
4..

3.

flout ;

to reproach.

Aliaz, his fottilh conqueror, he drew
Cod's altar to difj-arjge and dil'placc.
For one of Syrian mode
Millen't Partdife L:fi,

Thuu

b I s

D 1 S

Men ought not to affociate and join themfelves
together in the fame ofSce, under a difnjriiy of
condition.
Aylifc's Farirgon.

Thou dorft not thus difparafi glortoos irm?,
Which greateft heroes have \aDJttk worn,
Milton's /!«;:mfi"Their omamcBt and fifety.
They will defy

Some members mud prcfide, aitd others obey
and

That which thfy love moft tenderly ;
Quarri:! with mincV ^ies, and iifp:ir^ge

To bring reproach upon; to be die

t.

caufe of difgrace.

How fliall frail pen, with fear iifparagid.
Conceive fuchfoveteign glory and great

bauntihed?

r.

d^ffanry in the outward condition

D

T »./ [from difparage.']
s p a'r A c E M E
onion or comparifon with
1. Injurious
fomething of inferiour excellence.
.-»

I

They take

it

ftlves with any other than the

lick peace.

enemies of the pubVKjirangt.

And did at once dijjf>art them all.

Dispa'rt. 11. a.

dlfparagcv-.tn:
fide, who coun-.crf her blood a

to be

de-

(Jcntle knight.

That doth againft the dead his hand uprear.
His honour (lains witii rancour and dcfpight,
And great dyfarjrtnttnl makes to hit former
Sfen/er.

In a commonwealth, mach d'lffitagnnm is occafioned, when able fririts, attracted by a familifadHon.

ffaiton.

•Tis no diffaragrmtrit to philofophy, that it ronG/anville.

not Ceify us.

A Jifperfation was obtained to enable Dr. Barrow
to many.

ReaioB is a wejk, diminutive light, compared to
revelation ; but it ought to be no dijfaragrme-t
Scuihto a Itar that it i< not a fun*
"Rely upon your beauty : 'twere a d'Jfaraganent
when
you
a.e
cerof tfait to talk of conditiors,
tain of making your own terms.
Snatbern'i Innxaif AJulltry.

4. It has lo befo/-e the perfon or thing
~difparaged.
Then 10 our age, when not to pleafure bent,
This feems an honnur, not dij'paragcment, Devbe'm*

ployed in dealing out any thing ; adiftributer.
As her majefty hath made them difpenfaton of
her favour towards her people, fo it behoveth them
to (hew themfelvcs equal diftributers of th^fame.

Difparttd chaos overbuilt exclaim'd;
Miltcn.

The re(i to fcvcral places,

Bacon

The play was never Intended for the ftage; nor,
without difpcragtmtnt to the author, could have
Drydot,
fuccecd ;d.

Dispa'racer. " /. [ from Ji^arage. ]
One that difgraces one that treats with
;

one that contrives an unequal match.

Mn'icn.
Di/furlrd Brkiun mourn'd their doubtful fway.
And dreaded both, when neither would obey, frioi

Dispe'nsatory. n.f. [from difpenfe.]

Din.

The defcription of the ointment it foond in the

Dispa'ssion. »./ [dis and pa^en.] Freedom from mental perturbation ; exemp-

chyniical difperjatory.

What is calicJ by the Stoicks apathy, or diffajlii, is called by the Sceptickj indifturbancc.
by tlie Molenifts quietifm, by comibon men peace
of conlcicnce.
Tmpk.

look

1.

The burden of many ages, on me light

,

At length the mufes ftand reftor'd again.
While you dijpenfc the laws, and guide the ftate.
Dryden,

C/arntdcn.

To them but earth-l)orn life they did difpenjc ;

'lo

To us, for mvitual aid, celeftial fenfe. Tate's Juv,

To make up a medicine.
To Dispense luith. To cxcufe ; to grant
2.

If the night

difpenfatiore

When the fpirit brings light into ovir rtiind^,
difpth darknefs :

we fee it,

as

we do that

Bet.ieen Elihu and the reft of Job's familiars,

the greatell diffariij wa» but in years.

Htioier,

Aniong un'-quals, what fociety
Can fort, what harmony or true delight ?
Which muft be mutual, in proportion due
Giv'n and rcceiv'd but in dijfarity^
j

;

With many ranges rear'd along the wall.

Tedious alike.
Milf.n'i Paradifi I.0JI.
There was as great a d'ljfanty between the prsctlcal diftatei of the undcrllanding, then

and now,

W between empire and advice, couafel and
commudt
South.
an there

not wrought innumerable raifchicfs.
Rules of words may be (/i/^es/ii/TOM.

And one great chimney, whofe long funnel s
4,

The fmoke forth threw.

To DISPE'ND.

To fpend

t'.

Fairy S^een,

n.

[difptttdo,

Watts,'

nuith : before perfons.
fet free from an obligation.
This

voyage to Caprea.

to di/ftnd the third part.

5.

Dispe'nsary. n.f. [from di/ptn/e.] The

Addifon on Italy,

To D I s p E N s E w//^. To obtain a difpenfation from
to come to agreement
with.
Thii ftruflure is irregular, unlefs it be here fuppofed to mean, as it
may, to difcount ; to pay an equiva;

place where medicines arc difpenfed.
lo thee the lov'd dijfeni'ry I refign.
Garth.

Dispensa'tioi*. n.f, [from di/pen/aiio,
Latin.]

Raleigh.

conftruftion feems ungrammatical.
1 coulii p'lt dijpenfe viitb myfelf from making a

;

Spenfrr'i Start of Ireland.

before

To Dispense

To

Latin.]

to confume
to expend.
Of their commodities they were now fcarce able
;

allow :

giance, and curfing, or threatening to curfe, at
long as their curfcs were regarded, the popes have

;

thence

to

Nature diffenfes luith the deed,
Sbaiefpearf,
How few kingdoms arc there, wherein, by difpenfmgiuith oaths, abfolving fubjefls from alle-

It wai a vault ybuilt for great difpmcr.

The one intenfc, the other ftill remifs.
Cannot well fuit with either, but foon prove

;

;

To fave a brother's life,

t

the

J. Inequality; difference in degree either
of rank or excellence.

for

things.

fun at noon, and need not the twilight of
Di'spARATEs. «. /. [i/i/parata, Latin.]
reafon to /hew it.
Lmki,
Things fo unlike that they cannot be Dispe'nce.
n.f. [difpence, French.] Excompared with each other.
pence coft charge profafion.

Dispa'rm Y. a. / [from difpar, Latin.]

to diftribute.

;

At once, by my foteknowled£e.
Miiton.
Thofe to whom Chrift has committed the difpenjing of" his gofpel.
Decay of Piety,

men may judgr',

Have gather'd aught of evil, or conceai'd,
Difperfi: it, as now light difpeli the dark.
Aiilttm.
it

To deal out

Thofe now, that were difpens'd

Dr. Maine.
Wife and difppjjicinale men thought he had been

indi;;iiity ;

our difpenfator'us, one would think no
Bakerp

To DISPE'NSE. V. a. [de/penfer, Fr.]

derate ; temperate : it was fometimes
written difpaffionatid.

proceeded with very juilly.

irito

d'leafe incurable.

.

Dispa'ssionate. adj. [from dis andpa/Jienate.\ Cool j calm ; impartial ; mo-

To Dis i'e'l. -v. a. [di/pel/o, Lntin.]
drive by fcattering ; to diffipate.

Bacon's Natural Hijiory,

A whole difpenfatory was little enough tb meet
with, and fuffice to all their wants.
Hammonds
Our materia medica is large enough j and, to

tion from paflion.

Yr^u have, as al! ai^^amni

A

book in which the compofition of medicines is (.'efcribed and diredled ; in the
Greek, a Pharmacopeia.

The pilgrim oft
At dead of night, 'mid his orifon, hears,

fulfilled the poet's dennition of madnefs.

Ward,

Dispensa'tor. n.f. [Latin.] One em-

And with rebounding furge the bars aflail'd,

Aghaft, the viice of time dijfartmg tow'rs.

Tickell.

a permilTion to do fomething forbidden ; an
;

ed.

Spetifer.

That fcom'd his indignation.

An exemption from fome law

allowance to omit fomething command-

Difparted, and between fpun out the air.

Reproach; difgrace; indignity.

arity, are inflamed with

3.

parttr.Ereach; di/pertiDr, Latin.'] To
divide in two ; to feparate ; to break
;

Bacon.

might.

His now unequal difpn/ations clear.
And make all wife and beautiful appear.

Jfallir,

and pari;

[dis

dillribution of

Do thou, my foul, the dcllin'd period wait.
When God ihall folve the dark decrees of fate ;

Till his free mufe threw ilo.vn the pale.

On either fide

mingled with the king's.
3.

They were fuppos'd
By narrow wits to be inclos'd ;

'7<)

The dealing of God with his creatures

God delights in the minillries of his oWn choice*

clofure.

J-,^srat:mtnt, as to wed her father's feivant.
Sidney

She was much afftSionate to her own kindred,

dij'penj'ation

and the methods of grace, in the (economy 0^
licaven, and ihc dilpenfatiors of eternal happinefi*
Taylor's Worthy Communicarttm
Neither are God's methods or intentions differentin his difpcnfations toeach privateman. Rogtrt,

ShiTkeJjpeare.

to bnrft ; to rive.
Tiie gate nor wood, nor of enduring Vrafs,
But of more worthy fubftanec framed was
;
Doub\y dij'paricd, it !id lock and clofe.
That when it locked none might through it pafs.

• hich did ftir ^reatenvy in the lords of the king's

a

method of providence ;
gtwd and evil.

To fet at large ; to releafe from en-

i.

[In law.] Matching an heir in marriage under his or her degree, or againft
Cnuell.
decency.
You wrongfully 4o retjuire Moffa to fo great a

2.

circulation

perpetual

Woodward's Katuiai Hijicry,
2.

?"oDispa'rk. 1'. a. [dis i^nA park.'\
1. To throw open a park.
Vou have fed upon my figniories,
Difpari'd ray parks, and fell'd my foreft woods.

.

for a Mffaragtmatt to ^rt thcm-

is conftantly proof water promifcuou (ly
and indifferently to all parts of the earth.

'i'h;s

moted by

;

necef-

'

Atttrbury.

of men finterely pious.

thing.

Diffimilitude ; unlikenefs.

2.

Sfsyn.
gnccfully

His religion fat eafily, naturally, and
apupon him, with Jut any of th»ie forbiJding
atlions
pearanpe* which fomctimes di/farage the

is

b'f s

Dlftribution ; the aft of dealing out any

1

fary to keep feverai orderi in mutual dependence
on each other.
RcTen.

Their bell and Jeireft friend, plura-porriJge,
Huiiihras,

'

,

lent.

Hal

D I S

To Dtspi'mr. v. a,
I.

Dispe'nsc.

to damp ;

'

If./, [from the verb.]
Difpenfation ; exemption : not in ufe.

\_iiit

;

2.

Kings, furious and fevere,
.

The lonely lords of empty wilds and w>ods. Pofi.
Dispb'opler.' «./ [from di/people.] A

;

Exek, xxxvi. 19.
Sbaktjfeare.

Mh'len.

3.

continue in the gate vein which diffcrjab that
blood.
Bacon*

DlspE'asZDLr. adv. Ifrom dijptr/id,] In

You have difplac'd the mirth, broke the good
meeting
With mod admip'd diforder.

Displa'cency. It./,
1.

frobably fufpe£lisl) than eaGly clcareJ|Of errour,
H:ck,r.
Thofe minerals are either found in grains, difpcrjrdly intermixed with the corpofcles of earth, cr
fand, or clfc amalted into bnlls or nodules. tVcokv!,

pleafing; ofFenfive; unpleafant.

What to one is a moft grateiui odour, to another
noxious and di/piea/ani ; and it were a miferv jj
f 'me to lie ftretched on a bed of rofes. G/arr. Sap.
is

1.

2.

Dupe'rsion. »./. [from dlfperfto, Lat.]
1. The aft of fcattering or fpreadiag.
2. The ftate of being Mattered.
Noah began from thence his difptrfim, Rtleigh.
After fo many difpirjioni, and 10 many divifipns,
two 01 6utt of lu may yet be gathered together.
P'pc.

averfion.
Foul fights do rather difpteaft, in that they excite the memory of foul things, than in the immediate objcQs; and therefore, in pifhires, thofe
foul fights do not much oft'end.
Bac. Nat. Hi/>.
Your extreme fondnefs was perhaps as difpkaf.
itig to God before, as now your extreme affliftion.

TmpU.

To remove a plant.
To drive a people from the place in

Sweet and (linking commonly ferve our turn
for thefe ideas, which, in ef}"e<!>, is little more thaa
to jcal(

fmell of a rofc and violet, both fweet, arc certainly

Sp/nftr,
Englilh, were ihortly difplanttd and lod.
1 may juftly account new plantations to be the
children of former kingdoms : I like a plantation

Disple'asincness. n.f. [from dijj>lea/-

very didiaO ideas.

'"£•]
Jng-

where people arc not dif-

ti.

f.

[from

dis

and

plan:atio.\

Offenfivenefs ; quality of ofFend-

in their power.

The removal of a plant.
2. The ejeftion of a people.

Lvic.

It is 1 midake to think that men cannot change
the dilpi'ea/ingnejs or indifferency, that is in actions,
into plealure and delire, if they will do but what it

BacoK..

planud.

Lociit

Disple'asure. tl./. [from dtjplea/e.}

1.

1.

The Edenltes were garrifoncd to refill the AlTyrians, whofe djfplantation Senacherib vaunted of.

Rilcigb,

Uncafinefs ; pain received.

When good is propofed, its abfeace carries
pfeafure or pain with it.

2. Offence

ToT>lS?LA'Y. -J.a. [de/plojer. Fr.]
I .

them pleafing or dijpleafing ; though the

All thofe countries, which, lying near unto any
mountJins, or Irilh defarts, had been planted with

Displanta'tion.

Thofe who are pleafed with defamatory libels,
fo far as to approve the authors and dijpcrfirtof
them, are at guilty ai if they had compofed tnem.
Spe^ator.

i

V. a. [dis And p/aiit.}

in a pure foif; that is,

Brtrrwiod on LangU'jga,

terer ; a fpreader.

God was difplmfcd with this thing, Cbmi:. xxi. 7.
To Disple'ase. f. ». Todilguft; toraife

which they have fixed their refidence.

[from dij'per/e.'\

Dispe'rser. »./ [frora</i/^<r/^.] Afcat-

offend ; to m.ike angry.

Decay of Pitty.

grateful in it.

difperfion.

to a libbard's (kin, the diHance of whofe fpots reprefent the dljpirjnefa of habitations or towns in

[di/placeniia, Lat.]

ToDisple'ase. T. a. [dis &nd p/ta/e,] To

any thing unpleafing.

i7i DiSPL a'nt.

Thinnefs ; fcattercdnefs.
The torrid parts of Africk are by Plfo refemblcd

Africk.

DispLEA SANT. adj. [from drJp/ea/e.]Xja-

The difplacenciti that he receives, by the confequences of his excefs, far outwrfgh all that is

Dispe'rsBDness. n. f. [from di/per/ed.']
/.

Sbaicfpeare.

Sptffator.

Coidell faid, (he lov'd him as behov'd
;
Whofe fimple anfwcr, wanting colours fair
paint
To
it forth, him to difpleaj'anct mov'd.

Incivility; difobligation.

2. Difguft ;

feparately.

The exquifite wits of fome few, peradventure,
are able, difptrjidiy here and there, to 6nd now a
word, and then a fentcnce, which may be more

ti.

p-irts at the puny elTays of human (kill.

Oisplea'sanci:. n. /. [from d!/plea/e.']
Anger; difcontent. Obfolete.

;

To diforde)-.

G/an-ji/i..

Wc

can with thf greateft'coldnefs behold the
ftupcndous difptays of omnipotence, and be intranf-

Dijdcn.

to dillribute.
Being a king that loved wealth, he could not
endure to have trade fick, nor any obftruftion to

Dispe'*seness.

a glorious d/ffay of the highell foim of created

And want of merit render birthright vain.

;

;

hibition of any thing to vievvi

Our ennobled underllaiijinjs take the wings of
the morning to vilit the'w*ld above us, and have

Soutb.

One then mav be difplac'd, and one may reign

If the night
Have gather'd aught of evil, or conceal'd,

The ll.ite of being difperfed

'

Display, n.f. [from the verb. J An ex-

Derbjtn.

To diflipate.

a difperfed manner ;

.

by God hirnfi.!f, (hould

not be dijphced by any thing, under a dcmonftration of that divine power that Aril ititroduced it.

SlaK

5. 'J'o let oilentatiouny to yisiV.
They arc all couched in a pit, with obfcMred
lights ; which, at the very inftant of.our meeting,
tluy wH^ at once dijp/ay to thonigbt. Sbahfpeare.

Bacon.

Abdal, who commands
Tht cTty, is the prince's friend, and therefore
Mull bedi/placJ, and thou (halt (trait fuccocd him

A

Sptilat'.r,

'I he very felliw wh ch of late
Di/p/ay'd (a faucily agai.nft your .ligliflelii.

by all means to be avoided, unlefs there be a manl-

And I fcattcred them among the hcachenj and
they were difftrjed through tlic countries.

,

,

To difp/jce my who arc in, upon difpteafurc, is

religiorf, eftablilhed

,

:

extcllencic!,.

feft caufejbi it.

Cay,

;

v ,; ;i <
to cut up.
,
He carvej, difpkiyt, and ctits uptoi wsnden
j

"

fice, truft, or dignity.

to drive to different pares.

To deal about

To talk with,o{it rcftraint.

*.

Shaie/ptark.

Difperjc it, as now light difpels the dark.

4.

to opprefs the

;

Wantrofj vigour vyant of vivacity.^ t>iil.
To Dis^i,A'cE.. w.ftfi- [dis and p/ace.]
1. To put'out of plate ; to place-in another
fituation as, the dieflmen -art difplated.
2. To put Out of any ftate, condition, of-

[di/per/us, Lat.J

Soldiers, dijferfeyourCehes.

To carve

Rogers.

Dispi'rit^dkesV. »,'_/! .[fronkj^^^/r//.]

Te Dispe'rce. -v. a. \_difpergo, Lat.] To

To fcattcr

>^.

conftitutioQ of the body.
He has Jj/^in/fi/ 'himfelf by a.tfebauch, .and,
Collier,
drank away his good hnmpu'r.

depopul^tor ; a waller.
Nor drain I ponds the golden carp to take ;
Nor tfowle for pilces, difftif'ieri of the lake. Gty,
.fprinkle ; to feat ten- 1

To isxhauft the fpirits

'

;..

Wh» elaim'd the (kiesj diffe^latMr and flobds,

To DISPE'RSE. -v. a.

..

•

Porv'iSidSus.

3.

nothing in himfelf but a poor, Wcitt, difpiriied mortal, yielding KJ the lavfsbf corruption.

i

His heart exalts him in the harm
Already done, td'havc d-fjrcoplid'hciiv'n.

"••:

Say how this inftmment of l^vc b< 'an;
And in inmiorbl &t2fut'dijp/tj thD|*n.

AmMft'all the'hohouVs'tha't'are paid WtHj he

Ani fifo/>U.]

y read.

The (lorm the dirk Lycain groves ifljphy'd.
And Htdto liglit expos'd the facrcJ (hade.

J^ty'n'-*

;

J,

(b vi.

'

Lucktm

feels

;

.

..-,.

,•

re?cla-

tion, dSphy ttfith to niankin

S:iilh.\

.-..

hy,
Dryd.

fibir, tlut thofc, wiio arc not -.,<

them, but dalhes, and even dijpirlit, all hiiV endeavours, and n)aksi their ucfigns heivtlet and

The miniftcn of chathoulehoM «re theVifrot/rrj
of that faith.
S^ali
Thofc who ftand before earthly princes, who are

Shilit[ptM-em

Thou heav'n's alternate bea
The blulh of morning, and tl;
The works of nature, and

In' with

Steady to my principles, and not dlffiriud *ith'
my affliflions, I nave overcome all difficulties.

to empty of people;
The Irilh, baniflied into the mountains, where
they lived only upon white meats, feeing their
lands (o dlfpKfledmi weakened, cMnk'Jown into
i:! :>
the plains.
SptM/er.
St
Conflagrations, and £reie 4rovght>> dq,;not
merely isjftufle, but deftroy.

Of difpofition gentli

Cltirtridon.

ineffeaual.

To depopulate

You fpeak not like yourlcif, who ever yet
Have ftood to charity, and diJpUy'd th' cflccH

to intimidate ; to

The providenei^ of God- ftrlltes not

To eshiblt to the light or mind.

,

!

thing ; a diftributer.

To Dispe'ople. -v. a.

3.

to terrify ;

upon the fcaffold.
Afiliiw.

the difpnfert of their favours, and cohveybrs of
their will to others, challenge high honours, jittirh-

3.

[dis ini J)>ir!t.]

to dejeft ; to deprcTs ;

Certain it is, that the poor man appeared Co,dif-\
flrlted, that he fpoke but few' words after he came)

Dispe'nser.. n./, [from iijftnfc.'\ One
th.tt difpenfes ; one that deals out any

I..

;

fright ; to ftrike with fear.

Then rcliques, beads.
Indulgences, diffenfts, pardons, bulls.
.:
The (port of winds.
,

To difcourage

D I S

3

t> I

Hift thau not fworn allejiance unla me }
Canl( thou iifptnft teiih betv'n for fuch in oith ?

;

Now (Iiall I be more blamelefs than the Philit

To fpread wide.

tine?, though I do them a difpleafurt,

The northern wind his wings did broai difplaj
At bis command, and reared him up light.
Fairy Siuten,

There he him found all carelcfsly dijplay^d.
In fccret (hadow from the funny ray.
On a fwcet bed bf lilies f»ftly laid, Fairy S^sm.

£J'

Locke*

pain given.

3.

Judget.

Anger; indignation.
True repentance may be wrought 5n the hearts
of fuch as fear God, and yet incur his difpUafure,
the dcferved cftc£l whereof is eternal death, llviter.
He (hould beware that he did not provoke Soly.
man's heavy difpUafure ajalnft him.
Knolltt,

Undoubtedly

D I S

D I S

Undoubfedly he will rdmt, ti\i turn

To DISPO'SE, -v. a

From his tUfpltafure,
ATilnit.
Though the teciprocalncfs of the injury ought
to allay the diffltajure at it, yet men fo much more

To employ to various purpofes

1

j

Drydat,

2.

Dryden.
Nothing is initfelffo pernicious to communities
of learned men, as the d:Jflei:fure of thuii prince.
-

TcDisple'asure. T. a. [from the noun.]

3.

4.

A

To piSPLO'DE. 'V. a. [diJpIoJo, Lat.] To

Of thunder.
Afi/tsn.
DispLo'siON. n. / [from diffhfus, Lat.]

and //)ort.] Play;
amufement;

She lift not hear, bat her diffirit purfiied

terms.

To adapt

to form for any purpofe.
Thefc when the knights beheld, they 'gan difprj,Themfelves to court, aud each a damfcl chofe.

She had difpos'd with Cafar, and that your rage

Would nit be purg'd. Ok fent word Ihe was deadi.
Siakefpiarfi.

Dispo !e. »./. [from the verbi]
1. Power; management; difpofal: witk

But if thee lift unto the court to throng.
And there to haunt after th&hoped prey.

at or to.

Then muft thou thee dij'pt>fe another way.

My goods, my lands, my reputation.

All that is mine I leave at thy difpifei

To frame the mind
to incline :

;

with le,

Our liberty's the only gift we chuff.
Dryden' s Indian Emperor.
2. Diftribution ;

t.i

""ty-

All is belt, though oft we doubt

3.

"divert.

He hath a perfon, and a fmooth d'ifpofe.

extre-

To be fulpedtcd ; fram'd to make women falfe.
Shai^fpcare'i Otbe/!n

4. Difpofition ; call of mind; inclination.

it

is

of greit ufe V3 difpofi us to be

ihcy

do" not

their morality concerned to check them.

He often, but attended with weak^aard.
Comes hunting this way to difpcrt himfclf. Stat.
To Pispo'aT. v. u.^o play; to toy; tq

To make fit

Obfolete.

:

He carries on the ftream of his difpofc
Without obCcrvancc or refpcft of any.

think

In will peculiar.

Siu.ft.

1.

The magillrate is both the besgar and the dif.
Grcunt't Bills of Mormlitj^

W'.kd by the cries, th' Athenian chief arefe

The knightly formj of combat to difpoft.

Frcfli gales and gentle airs

Whiffer'd it to the woods, and from their wings
Flung rofe, Aung odours, from tiie fpicy (hrub
Vi/forihgl
MUicn.
'
Laofe
ments flew;

8.

^

•

1

•

Wheie light dijfent in ever mingling dyes.

ToDisposE o/". To apply to any. purpofe ; to transfer to any otlicr ptrfon or

Pofc.

The aft of difpollng or regulating any

bounds of the law of nature.
Loch.
V!fp(./c ofihe meat with the butler, or any other

thing;

'""•y-

regulation;

difpenlation ; dil-

tribution.

The power of diftubution ; the right
of bellowing.
Are not th: bleflings both of this world and the
next in his difpcfai f

Te D s PCS E ^.

9.

Tax not i'lv'we drffo/al; wITefl men
Haveerr'd, and by bao'wmen been deluded. Mill.

jintrh^rj.

Government ; management ; conduct.

We fltsU get more tiue and ilear knowledge by

one rule, than by taking up principtes, and thereby
putting -Kir minds into tbcdt/pefaii of others.
LkIk.

4, Eftabliiliment in a new ftate; difmiffion into new hands.
I am called off f.om public
*(rertations by a do.
mtftick affair of great importance, which i5 no
kit aa»<he di/ptjalnl my lifter Jenny for liCe.
Ztfr/rr,

N" 75.

^

God our friend, who is the abfolutc difpojir at all
things.

feflions and perfons, as they tlrink fit, within
the

'Dispo'sAL. »./ [from di/po/e^

I

gives to>

But brandilh'd hi^h, in an ill omen'd hour,

To thee, proud Caul, behold thy jufted fear,
'The raafter fword, difpofcr of thy pow'r.

Prior.

Disposi'tion. n.f. [from dijpojitio, Lat.]
Order ; m'ethod ; dillribution.
I
.

Touching mufical harmony, whether by inftru-

Tai.'rt,

mcnt or voice, it being of high and low, in ini

To give aWay by

proportionable d'ffofii'ioH, fuch notwithltanding is
the force thereof, and fo very pleafing efl'cdts it

A rural judge </if>MVc/"bcauty's prize. If^ailtr.

hath, in tha^ very part of man which is moft divine, that fomc have been thereby Induced to

and Icjcnces of female lift

7» Dispose

e/.

authority.

11.

DrydiH.

One who takes from, and
whom he pleafes.

3.
|

will let her lee, that to be well drrlTed,
in good
humour, and cliearful in her family, arc the art?

10.

Thou fliouldft have had thy wifli, and died in wars.

To put into the hands

As r.-.c is mine, I may difp^fe of her
;
Which (liall b»-«itlicr to this gentleitun.
Or to Rer death.
Sbahfptare.
I have difpojtd of hcT to a man of
bufircl.5, who

South,

Would I had been d'fpofer of thy ftars;

s'wir.:

of another.

diredlor.
think myfelf obliged, whatever my private ipprchenlions may be of the fuccefs, to do my duty,
and leave event? to their difpftr.
Btyle.
All the reafon of mankind cannot fuggeft any
f >lid ground of fatisfaftion, but in making that

All men are naturally in a ftaf^of perftft freedom to order their iftions, and </i/^»/i c/ their pof-

iKk-?,

Governor; regulator;
I

ufe.

if„

,

I'ipt in t!:

2.

D'rydrn's Fail,!.

.

_

Dillributor; dilpenfer; beftower.

pojcr of what is got by begging.

To regulate; to adjiift.

l^anton.

Shakefp. Troii. and Crcffidt-^

Dispo'ser. H.f. [from d{ffafe.'\

with/or.

This may di/poje me, perhaps, /or the reception
of truth; but helps me not to it.
Loike.
7.

Obfo-

t'afting

luft, iiite.-nporance, or avarice,

6.

Difpofition ; call of behaviour.
lete.

more objefts of his grace.
Smalridgr.
If mere moralifti find themfelves di/jtofed 10 pride,

Tu fuch dijfart before her through the field. ATilt,
To Dispo'rt. '•J. a. [from the noun.] To

dlf-

may be of no efficacy to dijpofe God to be more
gracious, yet

1

of government;

What th' unfearchable d'ifpofe
Of higheft wifdom brings about.
And ever beft found in the dole. Milt. Agon.

Drydn.

Although the frequency of prayer and

Spcrjrr.

His difftrti were ingeououi and manlike, whereby he always Uarned fomewhat. Uyiu. mZd, VI,
She buficd, h^ard ih: found
Of ruftlingleavesj but minded not, as us'd

aft

penfation.

Tcmplt.

dlffojed, and had a mind to bring matters

;

Shehfp,

It (hall be my talk
To render thee the Parthian at difpofi.
Mi/ton.
Of all your goodnefs leaves to our difpaft.

to give apropen-

A man might do this now if bewere malicioufty

And ever bade him (lay, till time the tide renew'd.

Obfolete.

When (he faw you did fufpeft

;

follow what )t advifcs.

merriment.

3.

Burret.

<
To turn to any particular end or con- To DisFo SE. t/. «. To bargain; to make

He knew the (ear of Paradifc;
And, as he was d.fpoid, could prove it
Below the moon, or elfe above it.
Uudihras.
This d'tjpt^t: men to believe what it teaches, to

fport; paftime; diverfion;

3.

have difpcfid much in works of public piety. Spratt.

The memory of what they had fuffered, by being
without it, eafily dijpojtd them to do this. Clarcmi.

The afl of difploding ; a fudden buril
or difperfion with noife and violence,

I.

They require more water than can be found,
and more than can be dijpofrd of, if it was found,

Sofpicions dsfpaje kings to tyranny, hufljands to
jealoufy, and wife men to irre'folution and melancholy.
Bjcm.

In pollurc to diff!tdt their fecorid tire

The glitt

Of what you gathered, as mod your own, you

fion ;

Stood rank'd of fetaphim another row.

To put av/ay by any

means.

Iluilierd's Tak.

J.

violence.

[</is

Drydttl'l FaL!u.

7« Dispose 0/^.

14.

Shaktfpeare,

Spertf^r,

by thfe favourite, it is impoflible any other fliould
be over great.
Bactin.

n. f.

Be warn'd to call that ufelefs care afide.

Endure, and conquer; Jove will Coon difpoft
To future good our part and prefent v/oes.' Dryd.

nor now in ufc.
When the way of pleifuring or JUpleafiirivg licth

Dispo'rt.

For the remaining doubt,

What to refolve, and how difpofe nf mt.

fequence.

not to gain favour; not
word not elegant,

difperfe with a loud noiie; to vent with

didon.

To give; to place; to beilow.

Than ever they were fair.

AdJifon'i Freehildtr.

4. State of difgrace ; ftate of being difcountenanced ; disfavour.
He went into Poland, being in d^fflcafure with
the pope for overmuch familiarity, ftad: on Mujic,

To place in any con-

reDisposE of.

13.

yet ici, when noble benefitsThall prove
Not well dupes' d, the mind grown once corrupt.
They turn to vicious forms, ten times more ugly

!

;

to

Frior.

You've fliewnhowmuch you my content defign
j
Vet, ah! would hcav'n'si/y//j/rj/««pafs like mine

win affcftion.

;

Thus, whilft Ac did her various pow'r diffsfi.
The world was free from tyrants, wars, and woes.

But take thy judgments from this mourning land.

to

tliemfelvcs when they come, which muft be in the
nature of laws unto them.
Bacm tsViUUn.

diffufe.

Decay ofPUly.

To difplcafe

\diffofer, Fr. di/pono,

Lat.]

confider what they fufter thjji what they do.

On me alone thy juft d\fpkajurt lay

D 1 S
They muft receive inftruftions how » difpoff if

7i Dispose e/^.

To di reft.

The lot is cart into the lap; but the whole di/
poJiKg ihmef is of the Lord.
Fre-virbi.
12. To Dispose of.
To conduft; to behave.

think, that the foul itfrlf by nature is, or hath in
1t, harmony.

Hulser.
Under this head of invent!.m is placed the difpofiion of the work, to,put all things i(i a beautiful
Older and harrilony, that the whole may be of a

pi«««

Dr-fMn't Dufrtfny, Briface.

4 A

iaft

.

I Hk whertier the connexion of the extremes be
H.it mere clearly feen, in this fimplc and natural
d',/{Kfi:iati,

J\'umb. xxxii •39-

Ol Deity fupirme, us dijftjfcjidy

Kiwdn,

is

for^^ard,

and ability of doand ready upon cvciy

Ln-ke.
eccalion tu brcalc into a£lioD.
Bleeding it to be ufed or omitted according to'
the fjmptnms which iH'cA the brain : it relieves
the coat of the
ill any inflammatory iifpijiuiii of

I

No pow'r (hall idjptpfi
.0
Of whit heaVn made, how art thou dif/cJi^yVd

With nature, did an arbour green dijfriad,
Fjamed of wanton ivy, flowing tair.
Through which the fragrant eglantine did fpreaJ

0/all ihy native glories! Dryd. State if Jmcurtre.
Nothing can create more trouble tu a man than

His pricking arms, entrail'd with roles ;ed. Spenftrr
Above, below, around, with »rt difpread.

to endeavour to dijfi0t liim »/ this con'^^i?-

The furc inclofurc folds the genial bed.

Eic tlicy lack'd power to crnfs you.

.

Predominant inclination.

It will be faund a work of no fmall difficulty to

and throw out a vice fnm that heart,
where long pofl'effion begins to plead prcfcription.
Stulh.

Dispo'suRE. n.f. [from diJ]<ofe.']
government; power; ma1. Difpofal J

As they pinch one asother by the difptjitim, lie

nagement.

Cries out, no more. Shahff. Anthony andClKpaira.
The love we bear to our friends is generally

In his lyj/ft/urf is the orb of earth.
The throne of kings, and all of human birth. Satid.
They quietly forrendered both it and themfclvcs
Sandys': Jiurr.ey.
to his difpifurt.

caufed by our finding the fame dijfojiiion in them
-

Fi>ft.

external cir7. Affortment; adjuftment of
cumftances: not ufed.

of things, they do tacitly defire in them a dittormity from the primitive rule, and the idea of that

mind that formed all things beft.

As levels with her breeding. Shakefpeare^t Oibello.
from difpofc.'] That
I s p o's I T 1 V E. adj. [
which implies difpofal of any property;
decretive.

The words of all judicial aflt are written narratively, unlefs it be in fentenccs wherein difpifitivt
and cnafting terms are made ufe of. Ayliffii Par.

Dispo'siTivELY. ad'v. [horn di/po/itiw.]
In a difpofitive manner.
2. Refpefting individuals ; diftributively.
That axiom in philofophy, that the generation

Brnvn't Vulgar^rrours.
2.

State ; pofture.

They remained in a kind of warlike difpsfuri, or

matter, is alfo dijpojit'vvtly verified in the efficient
Breivn'i Vulgar Errouri.
or producer.

i>ispo'siTOR. ». / [from di/j>o/e.] The
lord of that fign in which the planet is,
and by which therefore it is over-ruled.
To Disposse'ss. -v. a. [dii and paji/}.]
poffeffion ; to deprive
I. To put out of
to difTeize.
The bl.iw from faddle forced him to fly ;
Elfe might it needs down to his manly bread
Have cleft his head in twain, and life thence difFairy £Jurra.
prffi/l.
Thou iTialt hold the opinion of Pythagoras, ere
fear to kill a w.ioJI will .1II0W of thy wits; and
tock, left thou di/fjifi the foul of thy grandame.

Staktfpeari's Twtlfib Night.

Lerut fit upon the ground, and tell

How feme have been depos'd, fomc flaln in war,
Some haunted by the ghofts they d^fpcffep'J.
Siakrffurt'i Richard II.
I will chufc
Mine heir from forth the beggars of the world,

Sbahffrart't Timen.
In tiiee 1 hope ; ihy fuccours 1 invoke.
To win the crown whcat;e I am dlff-Jpfi'di
for like renown awaileth on the (troke,

And Jifpof'/i her all.

T« *»• the baujhtj down, or raife lb" opprefs'd.
fai-fax.

fVoiloi.

perhaps little better.

Dispra'ue. n.f. [disnadfrai/e.] Blame

Lofs

Di3.

;

Con-

futation ; conviftion of errour or falfe-

hood.
His remark contains the grounds of his dodrinr,
and oflers at foraewhat towards tlie difprcaf of
Atieriuiy.
mine.
I need not offer any thing farther in fupport of
one, or in dij'pmf of the other.

jiagert,^

To DiSPRo'pERTY. 'V. a.

[dis

and /m-

To difpoffefs of any property.

pertj.]

Dia^
Dis.propo'rtion. It. f.
tion.]

[dis Sind propor-

Unfuitablenefs in form or quan-

tity of one thing, or one part of the fame

thing, to another ; want of fymmetry i
difparity.

Not to aflfciSl many propofed matches

Of her own clime, complexion, and degree.
;

cenfure ; diflionour.

Whereto we fee in all things nature tends
Foh one may fmell, in fuch, a will moft rank.
:

I

If I can do it
By aught that I can fpcak in his difpraifi.

Foul di/frcfiirticn, thoughts unnatural.

She (hall not long continue love to him. Sbakeff.

Reafoning, I oft admire
How nature, wife and frugal, could commit
Such difprepcniom ; with fuperfiuous hand

1

of one thing is the corruption of another, although
the form and
it be fubiiantially true, concerning

"[

damage detriment.
DisPRo'oF. n.f. [dis znd proof]

Whim they murmur againft the prefent dijfejure

I crave fit diffcfitum for my wife,
Due reference of place and exhibition,

^

WJl.

J:Jpc//ij'i

take mylelf to be as well informed »s moft
men in the di/jK/ukns of each people towards the
Swijy.
other.
I

I

I

Over their brethren, and quite dijfnjfijs
Concord and law of nature /rora thi; earth.

Shaief/iiart'i driolanui,

Affeftlon of kindnefs or ill-.will.

which we feel in ourfelve:.

D s p R o'f T. n.f. [dh and profit.

They arrogate dominion undeferv'd

You hjd not (hew'd them liow you were difposM,

,

Fife's OdyJ/ry,

Formerly with yre»».

3.

The thwarting? of your dijpojii'an, if

D

Sferjir.

Over him, art, (laving to compare

bell
faireft of .ill creatures, laft and

Slr*kej}rarc.

Lefler had been

6.

And in het face fait tcuth and mercy doth appeaf.

Afy thoughts (i/"that eipjacd happincfs. Denbam.

hive fuftercd more for their fakes, more than

tobear.

5.

As morning fun her beams difpreaden clear.

""

the vlllanous inconftancy of man's Jilfj/ition is able
I

ind ff read. ]

and a few others, dh has the fame force
as in Latin compofiiion, and means,
different ways; iii different direftioas.
This word is poeticaL

Charles refolved, with a puiffant army, to pafe

Temper of mind.

4.

\_dis

To fpread different ways. In this word,

over, aud Co </t/*#/s the pirate 0/ Tunis.
Knollett Sipry.

jlrtuttntt en Dill-

nerve.

To Dispre'ad. 1'. a.

Drydeni.Mr.eid.

Bf-cnt Njittrai IVO.ry.

Sbaiefpearc't Olhfll),

H.ith ta'en your part.

It is generally ufed with of before the
thing taken away.

z.

Difftfilion is when the power

ing any thing

When I have fpoke of you dijfreifmgly,

Fii'd with difdain fir Tuinvt di/ftfcjl,
^iicft.
.\iid the new nuptials of the Trojan

Tendency to any aft or ftate.
This argueth a great d'ljpcfitkn to puttefaSion in

Michael Caflia!

That came a wooing with you ; many a time.

MCi

He ttuited to have feii'd.
ReHlefs Amata lay

Refrangibility of the rays of light is their Jl/ftfKtnn to be refrafled, or turned out of their wavr in
pacing out of one tranfparent body or medium

the foil and air.

was in it.

This inaecemblehigh ftrengt^, the feat

Luh-

inro another.

DlSPRAl'siNOLY. ad'v. [from tfi/jirai/i.l
With blame ; with cenlure.

The children went to Oilcad, ai>d took It, ind
ditfff'JI'd the Amorite which

than in the perplexed repetitions and

jumble of five or fi« fyliogifms ?
2. Natural fitnefs ; quality.

3.

D I S

D I S

D 1 S

Sbaktfpeare's Olttllot.

To me reproach
Rather belongs, diftrutt, and ail diffraifi. Miltun.
Nothing is here for Sears, nothing to wail
Or knock the brcafl^s; nowcakncfs ; no contempt,
Milton'! Agenijies.

Difpraiji, or blame.
I

need not raife

Trophies to thee from other men's dlfpraift. Denb.

Looks fright not men : the general has feen Moor?
With as bad faces ; no difpraife to Bei tran's. Dryd.
honour
If any writer (hall do this paper f» much
others, the whole
as to infcribe the title of it to
will belong
praifc or difpraife of fuch a performance
to fome other author.

Addjon.

My faults will not be hid, and it \% no difpraift
to

me that they will not: the clearnefs of ones

So many nobler bodies to create.
Mi/ton^
Greater, fu many fold, to this one ufe.
Perhaps, from greatnefs, (late and pride.

Thus furprifed, Ihe may fall
Sleep does difpr&portion hide.

And, death refembling, equals all.

What did the liquid to th' afTcmbly cill,

To give their aid to form the pond'rous ball ?
Firft tell us, why did any come ? next, why

In fuch a diffrcpirtmi to the dry ?

mind is never better proved than in difcovering its

own faults.

'''f-

To Dispra'ise. 1;. a. [f^tm the noun.]

To blame

;

to cenfure ; to condemn.

In prailiug Anthony, 1 've dijprais'd Ca-far.
Shr.krfpeare.

No ibufe, Ned, in the world; honeft Ned,
none: I difpraifid him before the wicked, that the
wicked roisht not fall in love with him; in which
doing, I have done the part of a careful friend.
Sbaiejptart'i Uiiuy IV.
The criticks, while they like my ware;, may
Spcliatar.
dtjpraif: my writing.
Dispra'iser. n.f. [from difpraife.'] A
Diii.
cenfurer; one who blames.

Dispra'isiple. adj. [from
Unworthy of commendation.

difprni/i]

Di^.

Wallert

For their (Ircngth,
The difpripcrllon is fo great, we cannot but
Derbam's Seftft
Experf a latal conlcquence.

Blaekmcre's Creation^.

That we are defigncd for a more exalted happinefs thaa can be der'.vcd from the things of iWn
life,

we .may infer (lom their vaft drfproportian to
Rogeri,

the deljtes and c<pacitics of our foul.

To DispROPo'ftTiON. v. a. [from the
'I'o mifmatch ; to join thing*
noun.]
unfuitable in quantity or form ; to join
unfitly.

There fits deformity to mock my body,
To ihape my legs of an unequal fije.

To dijp'ipirti:!! mc in every part.

Shak'fpeare,

Diflance and men's fears have fo enlarged the
truth, and io dijfriipcrtiintd every tiling, that we
have made the little troop of difcontents a gallant
army, and already meafuted'by the evening (haSuck.'hj;*

dow'.

•

Mutck

D I S

D I S

Mufick craveth your ncquaintance

many are

i

of luch <i)ffrtforikj!cd fpiritsj that they avoid her
company.
Ptacbam.
Wc on earth, with ondifcording voice.

May rightly anfwe.- that melodious na'ik
As once we did, tin dijipnfortian'j fin

</ry-

D

IVatt'i Improvemcnf of the Mind,

fomething elfe.

1.

Doubts and fcjrs are the fliarpeft paflions
through thefe tslfe opticks all that y lu fee is like

2.

TiDISPU'TE. -v. n. [dtfputa, Latiii.J To

of goodncff, that men arc orly not diffiwed, nor
difailoved cf God for thjm.
Hocktr.
1

s p R o'v E R .

a. /.

contend by argument ; to akercite ; to
debate ; to argue ; to coutrovcit.

[from di/pro^e. ]

One that difproves or confutes.
One that blames a cenfurer
;

:

It attempts of the pen have often proved
unfit,
thole of the fword are m«Te fr>, »r.J fighting
is a

if the

woife expedient than difpuling.

following paiTage be not ill printed for
difapprcver.

th= cv.ning fli.idov.f, di/frr/orthttail't to the
truth,
and feangely longer than rhc true fubflance.

been able to endure the d-ffrcfcrtktiaUcilffcrcacci
»,/»,„-

Decay ofPiefy.

_Ths athejit can pietend no obligation "of confcicncc, why he Ihould difpule againit rQiigion.

1 lie tingle example that our annals have yielded
of tw.i extremes, wHhin fo fli.rr time, by moft of
the fame cooimendcrs and difpryvfrs, would require no flight memorial.
fk'i.iior:.

St/ci/iiig.

Had the okliquity been greater, the earth had not

temper in the minds of youth.

tical

to difallow.

;

Sume things are good, yet in io mean a degree

Unfuitable in form or quannot duly regulated in regard to

of feafon.

l'crhaps,this praftice might not fo eafily be perverted, as to raifeacaviHingjf/j'/a.-arwc, a;idlVcp-

Hooker.

_

To difapprove

3.
AfHrat!.

proporlior.]
tity ;

pofed to debate ; argumentative.

though papiiis were uino us as heathens were unto
Ifrael.

Pispropo'rtjonable. aJJ. [from

.

Dispu'tative. adj. [from difpntf.] Dif-

,

;

Ja.-r'd Jgainft natuie's' chime.

D I S,

If God did not forbid all indiffarsntteremonie),
tiicn our conformity with the church of Rome h:
.-u :. _.. 1-.!
._ _
.-^ f.:
feme fuch
is not hitherto a> yet dijfrirved, i

Did not Paul and Bajnabas diipute with vehe-

mence about a very little point of convcniency ?
/bterbury.

y
T>
We are apt to fet too great a value on temporal Dispu'kishable. adj. [dis Mi pioiijh- rrYo DisPU
T£. <v. a.

bleflings,

and have too low and difbrol-orMraiU
"

ertecm of fpiritual.

Without penal reftraint.
No leafes of any part of the faid lands (hall ever

al'U.]

Smalndge.

There u no wine of fo ftrong a body as to bejr

•be made, other than Icafes fnr years not exceeding

fuch a diffrofcrtkreble quantity of water as
fixty

dij}rof.orthnahle. ]

Unfuitablenefs

fomething elfe.

Mjny a pound of my own proper ftnre,

oppofite fides.

fomething elfe.

If they are not in themfelves dtfputaUe,vihy
arc
"
they (0 mucii diCputcd ?
Siuth.

Dispropo'rtionally. ad'v. [from d/f-

2.

froport tonal.] Unfuitably with refpca
to
quantity or value.

or diffrcftnknau to the reft, cither in

.fca.

taits,

crrour or falfchood.

fifli,

''^'"'."'an to

2.

Holder.

in order to

" ''™"itr

We fee the fame afTertions produced ^JxT,-.

2.

UnDia.

Dispu'ter. n. f. [from difpute.]

A con-

ithi
liid to d./ro-",' ^u[t.

To convift a praftice of errour.

''°''''

a«d rLr^r'^"^'' ''';''E^'''/r'«"/. difannulled,

[from

trovenift ; one given to argument and
oppofition.
B )th were vehement difputirs againft the heaStiUingPtt.
Thefe conclufions have generally obtained, and
have been acknowledged even by difpuien
thcm(cJves, till with labour they had ftifled
tlieir con-

M\It.

di/putatio,

The fkill of controverfy ; argumenta-

^'^'••"«-

Roger,.

Di s Qu A L

I

F 1 1 a't 1

N «./. [from difjua.

That which
which makes unfit.

tion,

lify.]

Confiderwhat the learning of difputation is, and
how they arc emplo;ed for the advantage
of themfelves or others, whole
bufinefs is only the vain

Il is recorded as a fulhcicnt
dif<fitaTificarKn of a
wife, that, fpcaking of her hulband, ftie faid,

Well do 1 find, by the wife knitting
together of
your anfwer, that any di/fmaticn
I can ulc is as
much loo weak as I unworthv
Sidney.
Till foir.e admirable or uiufual
accident happens, as It hath in fome, to work
the beginning 01
a better alteration in the

clined to difpiue ; cavilling.

A ii.an muft be of a very diJpur^iUus temper,

'*" '"•

wivh any of the

^djfon.

SpeSlator.

Such

pcrtiiis as

fliall

confer benefices on un-

wonhy and difqualijiid pcrfons, after a notice or
correction given, (hall for that turn be deprived
0/
the power of prcfenting unto fuch benefices.

prevaileth little.

Hid
Disputa'tious. adj. [From di/pute.] In-

that

r*DiS(iUA'LiPr.-j. a. [dis and fW/^-.]
I. To make unfit ; to difable by fome
natural or legal impediment.

mind, dijpu,,ithn abiut

the knowledge of Ood commonly

dilqualilies ;

God forgive him.

Loiki.

Controverfy; argumental conteft.

that enters into ft.itc controverfics
licf/ktr.

r.

then idolatry.

oftcntation of founds.

i>hak.Jp,art.

Dry den's Fahla.

n. /.

e ss. adj. [from difpute.]

difputcd ; uncontrovertible.

Not in ufe.

Latia. J

Hioka^

d\jfr^,.
'rlTfX<
ihat falfe 'rfuppofition I advanced

«.t ,«rt,ce of what bash been

Beniliy.

Thou there waft found

Disputa'tion.

matter of dH, and beyond all dijpule.

Di s u't e

Sfcfianr.

Among the graveft rabbles, difputant
On points and qucftions fiiting'Mofes' chair.

to convift of

1 lie traitor's odious name
I ftrft return, and then
dijfrmt thy claim.

"' •"" '"""•

this is

is

'7''"'''''=-

i^^j,;^

The earlfc is now plac-d fo conveniently, that
plrnts thrive and flouri/h in it, and animals live:

unfymme- Disputant, adj. Difpnting; engaged

rh.s Wfftmoreland maintains.

.feofl'ri'n:'

that, when he

unable to extricate himfelf,
blackens all the water about him till he
becomes

This cxr<.(ition they plainly rf^,^
^„j ft,^.
by manilc I reafon, that of Uavfd
the words o,
David could not poflibly be meant.

„

thing in dijpute.

an ar-

Lakt.

1.

And Warwick !hM dijpro-v, it.

;

Our dijfutants put me in mind of the /liutiit

form, or value.

,

A controvenift

Natwithlranding thefe learned Sfptnantt, it was
to the unlcholaftick fta^cfman
that'the world owed
their peace, defence, and liberties.

difprcporiionaie.] Unfuitablenefs
in bulk '

I.

Latin.]

guer ; a reafoner.

•

in controverfv.

;

tention.

re-

The queflion being about a faS, it is begging it,

Dispropo'rtionateness. a./, [from

To confute an afTertion

Shakefp. Mad.

Dispu'te. n.f. [from the verb.]

to bring as a proof an hypothefis which
is the very

Lcckc.

I.

But I muft alfo feel It as a man.

Di'spuTAKT. »./ [from difpute; dijpu-

excefs or de-

y-! DispRo'vE. T/. a. [Ji!
and/rcw.l

dofo^

(h»ll

Unvifi.

Dispropo'rtiOnately.Wi;. [horn dif.
trically.

Difpute it like a man.
1

Conteft; controverfy; arguracntal con-

mains diji-utahU by every fubjcO.

It is plain that men have agreed f o
a i^ftro/,, .-„„
Mt and unequal polTeflion of the earth.

Unfuitably;

ufe.

Lawful to be contefted.
Until any point is determined to be a law, it

Ray

propsrticnau.]

To dilcufs; to think on: a fcnfe not in

3.

Liable to contell; controvertible; that
for which fomething may be alleged on

trkal ; unlunable in quantity or
form to

Unfymmetrical ; unfuitable
to Something elfe either in buUc,
form,
or value.
None of our members are crooked or diftorted

My prince's orders, but to execute. Dryd, Ind. Emf.

And never a(k"d for reftitution.
Shak. lien. VI.
Dispu'tabi.e. adj. [from difpute.']

unfymme-

to reafon about.

;

Now 1 am fcnt, and am nut to difpule

Have J dij'furfcd to the garrifon';.

1.

To queition

2.

Becaufc 1 would not tax the needy common'!.

Dispropo'rtional. a,:j. [from diffro-

dif.

Drydtns Indian Etfjperorm,
One fays the kingdom is his own: a Saxoix
drinks the quart, and fvvears he'll
diffute that with

ten dijhur/ej

We

proportion.')^

So di/pute the prize,

As if you foughr before Cydaria's eyes.

the following paffage (hould not be writ-

trically.
have no reafon to think much to
facri6ce to
God our deareft interrfts in this world, if wc confider how diffriftiriionahly great the
reward of our
luftenngs fiiali be in another.
Tilki'm.

Disf ropo'rtionat^. adj: [from

Umkcr.

Siuifrsunmn.
To Dispu , RSE. 'v. a. {dis a.nA pur/e.l To
pay ; to diiburfe. It is not certain that

to

Dispr.oco'rtionably. ad-v. [from dif.
frcponion.']
Unfuitably ; not fymme-

/orticu.] Difproportionable ;

I'hings were difputed before they came to be
d«termincd : men afterwafds were not to difpute any
longer, but toobey.

thirty-one, in pofrcffion, ?nd not in rcverfion or

rcmamder, and not difpunyhabli of waje.

DiSPROPO RTIONABLENE.SS. »./ [from
_

To contend for, whether by words Or
adion.

1.

/iyliffc'i Parirgen.

z.

It has

commonly /ar before tlie objec-

noun.
know no employment for which pietv </'/inj- '

tive
1

'•^'':

'

My common illnefs utterly diffua/i/ln me sZif,.
for all

convcifationj 1 mean my deafnsfs,

4 A a

Stvift.

3.

T«

,

D I S

D I S

The royal fociety had a good efftft, ts it turned
many of the greateft geniufes of that age to the

Disrejpe'ctfullt. adv. [from Jl/rt'

D I S
3.

To deprive of a right or claim by feme
pofitive rettriftion; 10 difable; to ex-

Swiji has /row.

cept from any grant.

The chuich of England

i>

tne only body of

Chriftians wliich dijjuslfoi thofe, who are emplcyeS to prrich its doa.-inc, from (baring ia the
civil jovKT, farther than as fenatort.

Sivsfi

n tbe Sacramitilal Trft.

Vo Disqoa'ntity. -v. a. [dii and quatttiey.} Toleffen; to dimini(h. Not ufed.

difyuifilhui of natural knowledge. Mdif. SftHater.
The nature of animal diet may be difcoveicd

Unea-

[Jii and quiet.]

DiSQyi'ET. »./

finefs; reftleffnefs ; Want of tranquillity

vexation ; dillurbance ; anxiety.

He that, upon a true principle, lives without
iny Jifquiei o( thought, may be faid to be happy.
VEfirange.
1£ we give way to our paflions, we do but gratily
ourfelves for the prefent, in order to our future
'

Tilhtfm.

Jifyaitt.

thftn under the treI bad rather live in Ireland
•uent Jifiuitii of hearing you are out of order.
Swi/i.

Dis<yji'ET. adj. Unquiet j iineafy j

rel-

1 pray you,

huiband, be not iifyuUt;

The meat was well if you were fo content.
Shaielptart.

7i Disqui'et.

To dillurb

;

[from the noun.]

a.

-c.

degrade. from his rank.

make

to

uneafy ;

to ha-

To

Studious of good, man. difngarjed favtK,

WJxy art thou fo vexed, O my foul? and why
P/.i/.-b.

«tt tbou f^ difyuieted within rae ?

DisRECA'RtJFUL. adj. [di/regard aixd/u/l. ]

reft

;

from

di/quiet. J

uneafily ;

[

without calmnefs.
Treachery, and
•Jiffuittly to our graves.
ing 1 found bim cjlm.

plete the wifli.
tience and diffatUfaHion, when he has tried a new
L'EJirange.
one, wilhes fur his old again.

The ambitious man has little happinefa, b^c is.>
fubjedfto much uneafincfs and dUfa:itfa3ioK.
Mdijons SpfBator,
In viin wc try to remedy the defefts ot our acthe fame diffaiifquifition, by varying the objcft
fiillhn purfucs us through the circle of rreatcd
'

Rcgcn.

:

every
:
body is fo concerned for the publick, that all priPope,
or
loft,
difrclj/btd.
vate enjoyments are

Disreputa'tion. n./. [dis and re/>utation.]

Stakcffear'i King Lter.
; but in the mornJVif.mtn.

1.

He refted dUquiriiy that night

eafinefs ; reftleflhefs ; anxiety ; diilurb-

ancc.
All otherwife, faid he, T riches rede,
And deem ihcm root of all difjuirituji. Fa:ry ^.
Arlos won to blml'tlf borh followers and great
^fendersj whereupon much difjuiHnifi enfued.
Ilaekfr.

Diiqvi'tTVBt.tt./. [fromdi/quUf.^Vnealinefs ; anxiety j dillurbance ; want of
tranquillity.
Little happincfs attends a great charaAer, and
d:lirc of it fukto a multitude of d'lijiiUiiidtt the

AJdiJoni Sfeautcr.
jefls an ambitious nVii.d.
•Tis the bed prefervative froin all thofe ternpo-

which
ral fears and dijijuifiuJit,
ment, and embitter the lives, of men.

corrupt tlie enjoyRogtri.

Duquisi'tion. «./. [di/juiJtiio,Lmn.]
Examination ; difputativc enquiry.
God hath relc.vei many things to his o;vn refolution, whofe d jnrrinations we cinmt hope from
but with reverence mu.t fufpend unto that

flcfli:

co.idemn

our
great day, whole }ufti«c (hall either
Brrain.
curiofity, cr ref dve our dijquifl cm.
•Tis indeed the proyer place for this d^quifitki:
agajceiiung the antediluvian earth.

U'ttdvuuJ I Natural Bi/lery.

diflionour.
you what was the courfe In the happy
days of queen Elizabeth, whom it is no difrtfiitii

Difgrace ;

goods.

Baccii.

.•«» ti folljw.

Lofs of reputation ; ignominy.

falisfaSlory.] Inability to give content.

content.

To difcoiitent

1
•

To fail to pleafe.;

,1

1.

Locke,

>

'

To DISSte'CT.

-v.

a. [difeco, Latin.]

To cut in pieces.

It is ufed chiefly of

anatomical enquiries, made by feparation of the parts of animal bodies.

an aft approaching to rudencfs.

>T

Any dijrtifid to aft^ of ftate, or to the perfons

Irreverent ; uncivil

by the

lordlhip's hiving appeared d'tffawjifi with them.

civility ; want of reverence; irreverence

"QMrni? t CTT V i-.adj .[dijre/peS iVydfull.]

to offend

want of fomething requifite.
I ftill retain fome of my n-Jtims, after your

DisRESpr/cT. n.f. [dis and re/pe3.] In-

zard that might acBTtJe from the vain dijrtfptfis of
ty'tlkint.
ignorant perfons.
What is more ufual to warriours than impatience
Pope.
of bearing the Icaft atfront or d'ljrtjftH f

Collier,

tisfy.

2.

;

of ftatcfmen, was in no time more penal. Clarer.d.
Ariftotle writ a methodical difcourfe concetninfj;
thefe arts, chuling a certain benefit before the ha-

to difpleafe.

;

The advantag s of life will not hold out to tti«

Isrgth of dcfirc; and, fincc thry are not big enough,
to fatisfy, they fliould not be big enough to ifrt'i-

Disrepu'te. n. / [dis and repute.] Ill
diflionour ; want of reputacharacter
tion.
H )W ftudioufly did they call a flur upon the
king's perfon, and bring his governing piinolplcs
Souili.
unjcr a dijrepuit.

"

To Dissa'tisfy'. 'u. a. [dis axidfatisfj.\^

The king fearing left that the bad fuccefs might
difcourage his people, and bring difrtyutaum to
himfelf, forbad any report to be made. Hay-vaid.
Gluttony is not of fo great difrefummn amongft
Taylor's Holy L'miig.
men as drunkennefs.

Rogm,

.1

Dissatisfa'ctor V. adj. [ from diffa—
That which is u.iable to give.
tisfy.]

_

z.

','•

Dissatisfa'ctoriness. n.f. [fromd.f-.

1 will tell

DistyJi'ETNEts. n.f. [from di/quiet.] Un-

'

faaion.] The ftate of being diflatisfied;
diCcontent ; want of fomething to com-

To want a tafte of; to diflike.

all ruinous djfordcrs, follow us

.

Dissatisfa'ction. n.f. [dis and fat if-

He that changes his condition, out of impa-

the purfuit, difrrnpes the fruition itfelf.
2.

Woodward,

If raging winds invade the atmofphere,
"Their force its curious tc«ure cannot tear.
Nor make dij'rap.'icn in the tiiieads of air. Blackm,

fqueamilhnefs.

The world is become too bufy for me

-

anxioufly ;

Disqui'etly. adv.
Without

A

f.

of die ftrata, was fcated with n thi

eattli.

The fame anxiety and folic'tude that embittered

R'fccm.
Loft friends, nor love, difqtiiiti thee.
[from di/quiet.']
n.

;

diflocation

Milrcx.

True appetite, and not dijrrl'ip thirftt
Of ncftarousdraughts between, from milky ftteam.

Delpair, amh'.tion, jealoufy.

a haraifcr.

'

rent ; dilaceration.
Breach
The agent which eft'adtcd this dlfrnpthn, and

I.

Fruits of tafte to pleafe

Thou, happy creature, art fecure

difturber ;

This I'ccures them frim di/nption, which they
would be in danger >of, upon a fuJien ftretch or
Say,
contortion.

unpleafant tafte.

to prayer.

Locke,

.'

.

Bread or tobacco may be negleded, where they

Prom all the torments we endure;

Disqui'bter.

keJ in queft afrefli of new notions

DisRu'pTiON. n.f. [di/ruflio, Latin.]
The ad of breaking afunder.
I

Bad tafte; naufeoufnefs.

By anger and impatience the mind is d\[qukted,
aasi i« not able eaUly to compofe itfelf

once of all his old op'mions, and pretences to knowledge and learning, and turn himfelf out ftark na-

Bbchm.

TaDisRE'LiSH. If. a. [from the noun.]
To make naufeous ; to infeft with an
1

Sj'tnjer,

Shakefpearc s King yobn.
Thefe two great peers were difroktd of their
glory, the one by judgment, the other by violence.
Wmion,
'Who will be prevailed with to dijrdie himfdf ac

Sfralt.
edly we are to do good to all.
Thofe falls which God hath dijrcgarded hitherto,
Smahidgr.
he may regard for the time to come.

The proui Roman him difjuitttd. Fairy S}ute».

tranquillity.

and wander ways un-

Kill the villain ftraight,
Dijrobe him of the matchlefs monument.
Thy father's triumph o'er the favagcs.

gtrs, to enemies, thofe whom nature is too apt to
make us defpifc, difregard, or hate, then undoubt-

With foot and cinders fiU'd.

at will,

known.

To

Oft they aflay'd,
H<inger and thirft condraining; drugg'd as oft
With hitefulleft difrdi/b, writh'd their jaws

to ftrip.

Thus wiien they had the witch dijroied quite.

flight; to negleft ; to contemn.
Since we are to do good to the poor, to ftran-

Negligent ; contemptuous.
Disrega'rdfully. adv. [from di/regard/uL] Negligently; contemptuoufly.
IDisre'lish. k./. [dis and refijh.]

To-

and robe,]

And a!l her filthy feature open ihown,
They let her go

And ufeful knowledge was his eldell aim.

[dis

undrefs ; to uncover ;

notice; ncgledl ; contempt.

are fliewn npt to be ufeful to health, becaufe of an
Locke.
indifferency or d'ljrcl'ip to them.

to vex ;

yidd Jin's Speflalor,

To Disro'be. v. a.

Tc Disreca'rd. v. a. [from the noun.]

2. Diflike of the palate ;

of their great grandmothers, as that

they made uiemfelves mon.lrous to appear amiable.

J5/''?.

to fret ; to deprive of

rafs ;

dijrejpteifully

Disreca'rd,/!./. [dij and regard.] Slight

1.

iefs.

ArbulhiKt.

To Disra'nk. 1;. a. [dit and rani.]

Be entreated

Of fifty to difjusnlilj your train ;
And the remainder*, that (hal! ftill depend,
Tn be fu'-h men as may befort your age. Staie/f.

Wc cannot believe our pofterity will think fo

by tafte, and other fenfible qualities, and fime general rules, without particular dijq:i'if'thn upon
every kind.

Irreverently ; uncivilly.

fpiBful]

'
I

/',

I

i„

We lofe
2.

^

;ric!;,

no I'av^^ur, no rcfcrvc ;

d, examine evtry nerve.

i:c

it in. the

in creatures

we (i/^<5?,

,

Sofcu},
•

moment we dete«.

Pope,

To divide and examine minutely.
Th s paragraph, that has not one ingenuous word
throughout, 1 have dijpfitd f.ir a fample. ..^tttrh,

Disse'ctjon. n.f. [diffeSio, Latin.]
I.

The aft of feparating the parts of animal bodies ; anatomy.

D I S

D I S
She cut her np; but, upon iht^JJelJion, found
VZfirange.
hrrjuft like other hens.
I (hall enter upon the clijftP.hn of a coquet's
heart, and communicate that curious piece of anaAdd'ifm*
tomy.

Nice examination.

2.

fpoken, or fa'fely reported of the equity of the barbarous king.
Kmlla.

ro DISSE'MlNATE.-v.a. [//|^;7i/«o,Lat.]
To fcatter as feed ; to fow ; to fpread

Such ftiidl enquiries into nature, fo true and fo
perfefl a Jj/pfficn of human kitd, is the work of
Granvil/i.
extraordir.aiy diligence.

To DISSE'IZE. -v. a.

To difpoiTel's

;

\iijfeifer,

to deprive.

com-

feditions, rebellions, in dijpminat'n^gof htrtfifi, and

declaration of difference of opinion.

Uisizins. It./, [from d:jfeijir, French.]
An unlawful dilpoffeffing a man of his
land, tenement, or other immoveable or
CotMeU.
incorporeal right.
Disse'izor. n.j. [from Jifeizt.} He that
difpofleffes another.

Dissemin.'i'tion. n.f. [dijfeminatio, Latin.]
The aft of fcattering like feed ;
the a6l of fowing or fpreading.

Jembter, in old French.]
To hide under falfe appearance; to
conceal ; to pretend that not to be which

1.

Dissemina'tor. «.y; [dijfcminatcr, Lat.]

He th.tt fcatters

a fcatterer ; a fower ;

DISSE'NSION.

Latin.]
Difagreemsnt ; ftrife ; difcord ; contention ; difference ; quarrel ; breach
of union.
n. /.

Whofe hours, whofe bed, whofe meal," whofe ex-

which is not.

ercifc.

This is not the true ligiiification.

Are dill together ; who twine, as 'twere, in love
Unfeparablc, Ihall within this hour.
On a dijjitfioti of a doit, break out
To bittereft enmijr.
Sbaiefptari'i Coriohttui.
Now join your hands, and with your hands youi

Your fon Luccniio
Doth love my daughter, and Ihe loveth him.

Or both diJfemhU deeply their alfe£lions.

Staktff.
In vain on the dj^embled mother's tongue

Had cunning art and fly perfuafi on hung j
And real care in vain, and native love,

hearts

He appealed the d.Jfinfinn then arifing abjut re-

To Disse'mble. f. w.

ligion.
;

KtmlUt.

Grown

to ufe falfe pro-

ikflions ; to wheedle.
y e dijfcmiitti in your heart! when ye feat me unro
thel'itd your Cod, faying, Pray for us,
Jirimiab, xlii. zo.
I would JyjimUfviith ray nature, where
My fortures, and my friends, at Itakc, required
I Dioiiid do fo in honour. Sbakejpeare'i Ccrkfartut*
Thy funflion too will varnuh o'er oar ans.
And fandity diffemiUng.
Rmit'i Ami. Si^m.
it for fraadulent ;

Debates, dijpnjion}, uproars arc thy joy;

Provok'd without offence, and piaflis'd to dertroy.
Diydett

Disse'nsious. adj. [from diJenfSon.'] Difpofcd to dL'cord j quarrelfome ; factious
contentious.
Either in religion they have a diffiifoui head,
or in the commonwealth a fa^ious heiJ.

AJcharni Sih-^oh-ajitr,

that am curtail'd of this fair proportion.

Who are they that complain unto the king

Cheated of feature by d'l^rmliUnt natuit,
Deform'd, unfinifli d.
^hak-^cart' i Richard IW.

That I am ttern? They love his grace but lightly.
That fill his earl with fuch dijfcnfisus rumouis,

Disse'mbler. n.f. [from dijfemkle.'\ An
hypocrite ; a man who conceals his true

Sbak!\f<ari.

Von differfiais rogues,
That rubbing the poor itch of your opinion,
M-ike yourfdves fcabs.

difpofition.

Tbou dcfi wrong me, thou diJfemliUr, thou.
^baltjptart.

The French king, in the bufinefs of peace, was
the greater diffmhitr of the two. Bac, Hinry Vll.
Such an one, whofe virtue forbiddeth him to be

To difagree in opinion; to tivink in a
contrary manner.
Let ine not be any occafion to defraud the puhf what is belt, by any mOrofc or perverfe

bafe and a diffimUir, (hall evermore hang under the

lick

mbeel.

diffiniitigi.

Reltigh.

The queen, with rage infl.im'd,

Dnay cf Piety.

:

DissE'MBiiNfcLy. adv: [from diJimiU.]

With diliimulation ; hypocritically.

King CharIn.

There are many opinions in which multitudes
of men difint from us, who ate as good and wife
as ourfclves.
Addifn.

fon lot finccrity fit to be truftcd a difcovercd dijJimtlir can achieve nothing great and confiderable.
a.

d.Jfent.'\

One that difagrees, or declares his ^if-

1.

agreement, from an opinion.
1 hey will aauijt of matter of faCi, and agree
with dijj'ctitcri in that; but differ only in allignin^
n
of reatons.
Locke,

One who, for whatever reafi:is, rcfufes
the communion of the EiigKlli church.

2.

Dissrrta'tion. n.f. [di^ertcitio, Latin.]

A difcourfe

a dilquifitiori ; a trcKtiJe.
Plutarch, in h^s dtjfe'tatiofi upon the Poets,
quotes an inftance of Homer's judgment in doling
;

a ludicrous fcenc with decency ana nuti-u^ion.

Broome 9ft the Odyjfey,

To Disse'rve. 'V. a. [dis andfefve.]
do injury to

;

to mifchicf ;

To

to damage ;

to liarm.
Having never done the king the leaft ferviccj
lie took the firft opportunity to difftnve him, and
engaged againft him from the be^^inning of the
Cianndort.'

Delires of things of this world, by their tendency, promote or dtjjirve our interelVs
another.

m

Ro^rri.

Disse'rvice. n.f. [dis xndtfervice."]
jury ; mil'chief;

In-

turn.
We ihall rather perform good ofEcci unto truth,
than any d'iffcrvice unto relaters who have well deill

feivcd.

Broiftt,

Great ftcknetres make a fenfible alteration, but
fmaller inuilpofitio.-.s do a proportionable dijjirvice.

Cjilier.

Disse'rviceable. a<^'. [from difftr<v'ue.'\
Injurious; mifchievouv ; huitfu).

Disse'rvice ABi.EN ess. n.f. [from dif/ewiceable.l Injury-; harm ; hurt; mifchief; damage.
All action being for fome end, and nj: the tni
its aptnefs to be commanded o.- forbidden

itl'elr',

mull be foui.dcd upon itj ferviccablenefj'cr (/Mir..
fome end.
T^^rriz,

iiieettUctttfs to

To Disse'ttle. v. a, \dis.AnA.feitle.Y'To
unfettle ; to unfix.

'

What crneltv of heathens has not been mi'.ched by the inhumanity of dijftming Chrlft!ans.>

^

Thus^reets him : Thou dijfrmhiir, wouldft thou fly
Out of my arms by Health ?
Dtntam.
Men will tiuft po farther than they judge a per-

South.

Siaktpcare'i Coriolanux,

To DISSE'NT. -v. n. [djJfe„i-:o, Latin.]
I,

[from

rebellion.

But firft among the priefts difftnfiov fprings. Milt.

on-

adj.

Dlfagrceable ; inconfillent ; contrary.
Disse'ntkr. n.f. [from di£ent.'\

^

In wealth and multitude, fadtious they grow

performing.
1

Dissenta'neous.

to hui t ;

That no difftxfion hinder government, Shfiktjfcare.

Inthetrue patent'spantingbreailhadftiove. Pr'wr.

Not in ufe.

'ihe diff'tnts of tlie mcnftrual or ftrong waters
may hinder the incorporation, as well as the diJTent
of the metals. Therefore v/hcre the menlt.ua
are the {xrv>t^ and yet the incorporation fuiloweth
not, the dijjint is in the metals.
Buccn,

\_diJferflo.

Friend now, faft fworn,

Hayward*

Contrariety of nature; oppofite quality.

world, hope to acquire it by being the dijjemlnaton
Decay of Piety.
of novel dodlrines.

touching her faith, as fbe could not change, fo (he

a. Shakejpeare ules

;

a fpreader.
Men, vehemently thirfting after a name in tlie

really is.
She anfwered, that her foul was God's; and

To play the hypocrite

2.

Though now at the greateft dirtancc from the
bcgirning of errour, yet we arc aloiift loft in its
dijffminaiiffn, whofe ways are boundlcfs, and confefs
Sr-nvn.
no circumfcription.

;

1.

or diluent are voluntary actions.
Lticke,
Wh<u could be the reafon of this general di£int
from the notion of the refurreftjon, feeing that
almoft all of them did believe the immortality of
the foul?'
BentLy'i Sermuns.

Addifoni Sprdiiter,
By firmnefs of mind, and f:eedom of ficech,
the gofpel was dijfimtiattd at firft, and muft flj'l b;
maintained.
Ailirbury,

To DISSE'MBLE. f. a. [diftmulo, Latin
femblanct, d'JJemblance, and probably dij-

To

In propofitions, where though die prooft in
view are of moft nio:Tient, yet there are grounds
to fufpeft that there is proof as confiderable to
be produced on the contrary fidej there fufpenfe

trading parts of the world.

Lickc.

would nut rfi^emWe it.
pretend that to be
2.

;

H^codxvcrdt

re-cftablifc lineal fucctflion.

i"

every way.
Ill ufes ate made of it many times in flirting up

The Jews are indeed diJ/emiKated throagh aii the

faz.:d of, an additional eftate, never before in Ihe
polfeilion of his anceAors, he could not be faid to

Hocker.

How will dl/fenting brethren relifli

•heat diffeminmeJ throughout the body of the earth.

In his brafs-plated body to embofs. Fairy S^ecv.
If a prince ihouli give a man, befide^ his ancient patrimony which his family had been dif-

that tnoh

but

To differ from the eftabliilied church.

3.

Hammond^s Fuvdumetitals.
There is a nearly uniform and conflant fire or

He lo JiJJiizid of bis. griping grofs.
The knight his thrilUnt Ipear again aflay'd

if,

What will malig:iants fay ?
Hudibrau
Disse'nt. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. Diiagreemcnt
difference of opinion;

monly uied of a legal adit.

*

whatever dijinteth from
which doth fartheft dhjent,
ful,

infufing of prejudices.

French.]

It is

D I S

They might all have been either eHJl'mHingly

To differ

to be of a contrary nature.
We fee a general agreement in the fecret opinion of men, that every man ought to embrace
the religion which is true, and t« fliuo, aa hurt;

To Disse've R. <!;. a, [diJ, and feaier. In
this word, the particle dji makes no
change in the fignification, ,ind therefore the word, though fupported by great
authorities> ought to be ejefled from otir
language.] To part in two to break ;
;

to divide ;

to

fuiider ; to feparaie ;

to

difunite.
Shortly had the ftorm fo difrverej the company, whidt the day before had tarried together,
that

.

Dl S
moA

tlut

is

BticotCi I^^Jtural Hiftsri.

The difflvnini of fleeti h»th bctn the ovtrKalfigt.
All <io«nrigl>t rjinj d'Jjevtr the violence of out-

n DI'SSIPATE. i: a. [dijfipalus, Lm.]
To fcatter every way

1.

The meeting pointt the facred hair J,J!vtr
Frum ihc fair head, for ever and for evtr. Pefe.

dl/Jifvtis

aft of ilaning afunder.
Dissi'nENT. aJj. [dijiliins, Lat.] Start-

Dussiii'nON.x.y; yiJT'lio, Latin.] The
of burlling in two; the aftofllaiting different ways.
The air having much room to receive motion,

the dyftiiiim of that ai» was great.
Bylt'i Sf'ing of the Air.

and fimilar; and that,
whofe rays are fome more refrangible than otheri,
ij call compound, hetcrogeneat, and djfmikr.
Ni^vton
If the fluid be fuppofed to confid of heterogenerus particles, we cannot conceive how thofe
Btnilty.
dijfmilar parts can have a lilci: fituation.

2.

Dissimh-a'rity. »./. [from dijfimilar.l
UnlikeneG ;

diffimilitude.
If the principle of reunion has not its energy
in this life, whenever the attraflions of fenfe
ceafc, the acquired principles of Aijjimihr'iiy mud
repel thclc beings from their centre : fo that the
principle of reunion, being fet free by death, muft
drive thcfe beings towards God their centre ; and
the principle of iliJjimHanly, forcing him to repel
them with infinite violence from him, muft make
Cbiyitc.
them infinitely miferable.
BiSilMl'l.lTUDE. n.f. [diJJimilitutio,L,3Ltin.] Unlikenefs; want of refemblance.
Thereupon grew marvellous d'tjjimilitudci, and

by leafon thereof jcaloulics, heartburnings, jars,
llnhir.
and difcords.

We

doubt vtbether the Lord, in different circumftanccE, did frame his people unto any utter
^iJJim'iiiiuJe, either with Egyptians, or any oclitr
Hooker.

The Jijpnnlitudt between the Divinity and images, flie>ts that images are not a fuitable means
Stilthgjiee:
whereby to woi(hip God.

A> humane focicty i^ founded in the limilituHe
•f fome things, fo it is promoted by fome certain
Grevj,

Women are curious obfervcrs of the likenefs ot
children to patents, that they may, upon fuiding
JiffimUiludt, hive the plealure of hinting unchalPc/f'j OdjjJ/iy, AV.i.
t,:y.

By

Now

fallacious appearance ; falfe pre-

teniions.
but a faint kind of policy; for
It alketh a ftrong wit, and a ftrong heart, to know
Baan.
when to tell truth, and to do it.
He added not ; and Satan, bowing low
UiJfiviiiSatkn is

His grey dij/imu/aihn, difappear'd
Int'J thin air diffus'd.
r>':ff:mu!alkti

Miitcn,

may be taken for a hare conceal-

meiit if one's mind; in which fenfe we commonly
fay, that it is prudence to dilTcmble injuries. Smth.

iPl'ssil'ABLE.a.^'. [(torn dij/il>ate.'\ Eafily
/cattercd ; liable to dil'perfion.
•>'<

The heat of Ihofc plantt it very dijft^aklt, wliich

;

to clear.

Dan. T. 16.

To break an enchantment.

7.

Highly it concerns his glory now

Angels diffolv'd in hallelujahs lie.

;

All putrefadtioD, if it difjijl^ve not in rarefaction, will in the end ifluc into plants or living
creatures bred of putrefaflion.
Ba^on,

As wax di^ol-:ei, as ice b^r;i.ns to run

And trickle into drops betore the fun.
So meits the youth, and languilhes away.
Addifm's Ovid,
.

To Disso'ci ATE. <r. a, [dijjocio, Latin.]
to difunite ; to part.

In the JtlfQciaiing action, even of tiie gcntleft
fire, ujjon a conciciC, there perhaps vanilh loine

and fugitive particles, whofe prefencc was
requificc to contain the concfcic under fuch a deBoyti.
terminate form.

aiilive

Disso'lvable. fl<^'. \ixoTa dij/hli/e.^ Capable of dinblution ; liable to be melted.
Such things as are not djffjhaik by the moifture of the tongue, aft not upon the taAe.'
[diJpilnbiUs,

Latin.]

Capable of feparation ; having one part
feparable from another by heat or moifture.
Nodules, repofed in cliff's amongft the earth,
being hard and not fo dijjhiuhle, are left behind.
fyoidtvariCi Natural Uijiory.

by heat or moiiture ; capacity of being
diflblved.
Bodies fcem to have an intrinfick principle of
alteration, or corruption, from the diffilubiluy of
their parts, and the coalition of fever j1 particles
endued with contrary and deltrucllve qualit'es each
toother.
Hale's Origin of Mankind.

To DISSO'LVE. -v. a. {diffolvc, Latin.]
I. To deftroy the form of any thing by
difnniting the parts with heat or inoifture ; to mek ; to liquefy,
i have heard of acchuviu di^okitd in fnucr.
D>yien.

Drydes,

To Disso'lve 'V. n.
to be liquefied.
I. To be melted

ff^toj'aiard.

;

;

and by his

And 1 have heard of thee, that thou cinft
make interpretations and dij/ilvt doubts.

3. Scattered attention.
I have be^un two or three letters to you by
fnatches, and .beeji j>rcveiUcd fr«m niiilhing them
by a thoufand avocations and i!il/ij>iitici:s,
i'-u.'ifi.

adj.

alone,

are

To fruftratc and d'ffolfe the magick fpells. Milton,
8. To be relaxed by pleafurc.

Foul di£':fiiti(m follow'd, and forc'd rout. Milrni.
Where the earth contains nitre within it, if
that heat which is continually (teaming out of the
earth be preli:rvcd, its dijjlparion prevented, and
the cold kept off by fome building, this alone is
ordinarily fullicicnt to raife up the nitre.

Di'ssoLUBLE.

authority

p^Haments

To folve

6.

Baa^n.
Paleg, in

;

king's

sHirmbled ; a'^l by him
alone they arc prorogued and di^olved, but each
houfe may adjourn itielf.
Bacon to yHIieri,

The (late of being difperfed.

To feparate

the

writs,

©issimwla'tion. h. C l^dij/imulaiio, La- Dissohjbi'lity.
n.f. [from drfilui/c]
The aft of didcmbling hypotin.]
Liablencfs to fuffer a dii'union of parts
crify

To break up aficrablies.

J.

Abraham was contemporary with
whcfc time the famous dijjtfotion of mankind,
aud diHinction of languages, happi-ned.
ilttWi Origin cf Mankind.

1 call finifle, horn gencal,

firydcn.

filiii a league.
She and I, long fince contraSed,
Arc now fo furc that nnthin; can dijpdve us. Slal.

Savage'% Life.

1'he eH'eCtj oi heat are moft advanced when it
woiketh upon a body viichout lofs or diJfifntKn ot

Biyti.

dijfim'iiittidiu

vernment,

To feparate perfons united; as, to dif-

The aft of difperfion.

The light, whufe rays are all alike refrangible,

of any

But the great monarchy death diffijivet the go4.

the matter.

ties

Mill, n.

rl.c wherry that contains

Simple oil is reduced into Jiff.m'ilar parts, and
\iclds a fwect oil, very dificring from fillet oil.

break the

to

The commons live, by no divifions rent;

To fpcnd a fortune.

1

be dif-

fliali

Blind with the light, and ftiickcn dead with wondcr.
Fairfax,
Witnefs thefe ancient empires of the ea^th.
In height of all their flowing wealth diffolv'd.

it

Lcrdcn.
Of dtjjifated wealth the poor remains,
Dissipa'tion. //./. \_diJ/!patio, Latin.]

Dissi'.Mii.AR. aJj, \iis and^fimilar.] Unlike; heterogeneous.

thefe things

Down fell the duke, his joints dijilv'd tfandcr.

and bears olf tbofc -corpufcles which

This llavcry to his pailions produced a life ir3.

to

manner.

to difunite in any
all

a'J

Wo:d'u:a<d.

thing.

to difperfe.

regular and djffjfaied.

aft

To loofe;

3.

To fcatter the attention.

2.

taken

viras

folved, whatjnanner of peifons ought \c ti be?
2 Fit. iii. 1 1.

Jf^ood'icjrd,
brought.
It is covered with ikin and hair, to quench and
diffrf^le tbz force of any ftroke, and retard thBay.
ecgc of any wcapin.
The circling mountains eddy in,
Fr'>m tlie bare wild, the dijjifattd ftorm. thoufin.

Dissi'l'ience. n.f. [rf'/^//'a, Latin.] The

ing afunder; burlUng in two.

;

;

Seeing then that

The heat at lengtn grows fo great, that it again

Di'ssiDBKCE. H.f. \i'iJpdeo, Latin.] DifDiQ.
cord ; difagrcement.

nation.

To break

z.

ing of corpufcles which are extremely Iniall and
light, and therefore the more cjfily ilijfij>,il>li.
'
fytuiward's Aulural Hl/iii}''

lageous winds, inJ level the mountiinousbillms.

globe

pieces, and diffolved, at the deluge.

The parts of plants aie very tender, as confifk-

thiow o» many laion!.

Dj/Jivtr your united (Irergtht,
And part your minflcd colours once igain. Stat.

The whole terrcftrial

contained and held in; but
when it Cometh to the air it exhaleth,

Sulney.

Swallowed Uf.

D I S

D I S
under the earth

if tlirm never met »it\a, but »cre

To fink away

to fall to nothing.
If there be more, more woeful, hoU it in ;
For 1 iim almoll ready t j riiffihe.
Seaktjpeari: King Lear,
Hearing of this.
melt away in pleafures.
;

To

Disso'lvekt. a<^. [from dij/oli/f.] Hav.

ing the power of diilolving or melting.
In man and vivipar .us quadrupeds, the food,
is firft chcwej, then
fwallowcd into t^c ftomach, wheie, being mingled
with diffilvent juices, it is concealed, macerated,
and rejuced into a chyle.
Ray,

nioi;>cned with the Ipittlc,

Disso'LVENf. ». /. [from the adjeftive.]
Thai which has the power of difuniting
the parts of any thing.
Spittle is a great dijj'oivtnt, and there is a gre:tt
quantity of it in the ftomach, b^ing Iwjllowcd
coniiantly.
ylrtiuibnti.

Disso'lver. a./ [from di^clve.] That
which has the power of diflblving.
Fire, and the more fubtle i^i/T^'/.i/^rr, putrcfa^ion,
by dividing the particles of lubllances, turn them

black.

uirtutkrot.

Hot mineral waters are
phlegm.

the bed d.JJJ-uers of
Arbuthnct,

Disso'lvible. adj. [from dijilt-e. It is
commonly written dijcl'vakle, but lefs
properly.]

Liable ro perilh by dlAb-

lution.

Man, that is even upon the intrinfick conflitution of his nature dijfhii le, muft, by Jwing in
an eternal duration, continue immortal.
Hall's Or gin of Mankind,

DI'SSOLUTE. adj. [ diffolutm. Latin. ]
Lootc; wanton; unreltrained ; diflblve4 in pleafures ; luxurious; debauched.

A giant

D I S

D I S

»^

Who him di(arn-.ed, dijjiiuic, diimaj'd,
And beat our watch, and rob our palfen'g-rs
While he, young, wai.ic-., and eftcminate boy,
Takes on the point of honour, to Tupport
So dj/Jiluie 3 crew.
Shukejfeart's Rklard II.

bhall leave them to enjoy.

Lat.

[diffonans,

Still

mind with a perpetual

Milton.

In my civil government fome fay the crofier,
fome (ay the diftaff, was too bofy.

dijjtinanie ot

Hawers England's Tears.
See my royal mafter murder'd.

Garth's frtface ti Ovid.

^

Di SSONAN-T. adj. [dijlnans, Lat.]

iiraint.

His crown ulnrp'd, a dijiaff'in. the throne.

Harfh ; unharmonious.

Distaff-thistle, n. /.

Wheieas men have lived Jigilutely and unrighteoufly, thou haft tormented them with their own

r.

abominations.

The cruel raptures of the favage kind. Thimjm.
2. Incongruous; dil'agreeing
with/ro«.
What can be more iijjinar.t from tcalon and

Dire were the ftrain, and diffinant, to fing

iVifiian,

[from dijfoiuie.']

1.

With to i lefs properly.
When confcience reports any thing diffhnoKt to
truth,

it

obliges no

more than the falfehood

ported by it.

Dissolu'tion. n./. [dijfolutio, Latin.]

Drydfns fiigH.
Place on their heads- that crown difnin'd wi,h
gore.

re-

Which thofe dire hands from my flaln father tore.

i„„£,.

The aft of liquefying by heat or moif- Tc DiSSUA'DE. -v. a. [dlfuadeo, Lat.]

To dehort

1.

ture.

to divert

;

Btfe.
H-" nnderftood.

Had both dijiain'd her honourable blood.

To pay our wonted tribute, from the which

And eke the faith which (he to me did bind.

We were diffuaded by our wicked queen.
man of

Shaiiffeare's Merry Wrvn ef Wwdfor,
4. peftruftion of any thing by the feparation of its parts.

iron

and

aqua-fortis

feverally;

then

My voice dijfuadn.

/;^„„_

6. Death ;

the refolution of the body into
its cooftituent elements.

The life of man is always either increafing towards ripenefs and perfcaion, or declining aad

Milion't Paradife Loft.

Not diffident of thee, do I dijuade

J.

Mdicn't Par. Lojl.
deny this wilh, which thou haft madt;
Or, what I can't deny, would fain diffiiade.
I'd fain

DissuA ^ DER. «. /

Add.fns Ovid.
[from difuadc] He

its

votaries call

in'-

Dissuasive, adj. [from dijliade.]

De-

hortatory; tending to divert or deter
front any purpofe.

«./ Dehortation

;

poliibly the diffululicn of the worid may

next moment?

_

h.ipien th'
£^„/,^._

Breach or ruin of any thing compaftcd
or united.
Is a man confident of wealth
and power ?

^

—

c-

,

,,

9. The aft of breaking up an aflembly.
10. Loofcnefs of manners; laxity
rej

miffhefsj diflipation.

in fencing.
We come to fee

fight; to fee thy pafs, thy
ftock, thy rci-cife, thy difance.

Sbakcffeares Meiry Wi-vti ofWindfor;

Againft my ncar'ft of life. Sbakejfiarr's

dir'd,

D'SSY ^ I.LABLE. fl. /.

Jattiior rule in Uje feet of bii veifc,

but that

Mjchih,.

A fpace marked on the courfe where,
horfe: run.
This w.,s the horfe that ran the whule field

A

word of two fyllables.
No man is tied, in modirrn poetry, to obfcrvc
any

5.

Cbapmav.
[iiffgUhc^'S)'.]

'

Contrariety ; oppofition.
Banquo was y ^ur cn^my.
So is ho mine; and in fuch bluody dilance,
That every minute of his being th'rults

But when her draught the fea and earth di/Tun-

_^

Prior.

The fpace kept between two antagonifts

3

4.

The troubled boltorai turn'd up, and (he thunder'd.

of the great" monarchies and
g -veri-

Mi.

Thefe dwell at fuch convenient diflame.

That each may give his friend alhll.mce.

Gmtrnmint of the T<,rgut.

To DissONDER. m. a. [dis and /under.
This is a barbarous word. See Dissever.] To funder ; to feparatc.

Why let him read of tliofe Orange ut.execfled
menta of the woild.

Caelat is (till difpos'd to give us terms.

1 he meannefs, or the fin, will fcarce be di/Tlafivet to thi/fe who have reconciled thcmfclves to
both.

Remotenefs in place.
And waits at JiJIancc till he hears from Cato.

_

commerce, becaufc

MdifM.

,

fuit.

MUton.

Would they have mankind lay afide all care of
agriculture or

'"8 ^"-

2.

argu-

meiit or importunity employed to turn

provTions by

cheap, notwithftanding the great dif.
tance between the vineyards and the towns that fed
t'"= *'««•
Addifon on Italy.
As he lived but. a ftw miles di/ianct from her father's houlc, he had frequent opportunities
of fee-

^y.

the mind off from any purpofe or pur-

When this world's iTgai^tkn O.ail be ripe.

Locke..
It is very

Endeavour to preferve yourfcif from relapfe by
fuch dijjiiajitnt from love, as
veftives againft ir.

Dissua'sive.

Latin.]
Dijiance is fpace confidered barely in
length between any two beings, without
confideriiig any thing elfc between them.

H^i,r.

He thence (hall come.

\.

that diU'uades.

He determined to ilfake a prefent dWeluikti of

^•"^M-

Dl'STANCE. »./. yijiance^ Fr. dijlantiuy

Dissua'sion. «./ [rf'^fl/fa, Lat.] Urgency of reafon or importunity againft
anything; dehortation.

dccrtafuig towards rotuoncfs ajjd dijfoluikn.
"^
"^
Weexpeftcd
Immediate dij/iluthr, which we thought
Was meant by death that day. MiJans Par, L-JI.
^
7. Deftfuftion.

by defending oppredions, diflMning their
profeOions by publiihing odious untruths upon report of othci s.
Sir
Hay-ward.
ligion,

Thy abfence from my fight.

weigh the

dijilutim.

Shakeffeare.

Some theologicians delile places erefted for re-

This would be worfe;

War therefore, open or conceai'd, alike

5. The fubftance formed by diflblving any

difTclve the iron in the aqua-fortis, and

The worthmefs of pi^aifj dijiains his worth.
If he that 's prais'd himfelf bring the praife forth.

gerous.

The elements were at perfefl union in his
kodyj and their conuary qualities ferved not for
the dijjhlutkn of the compound, but the variety
of the compofure.
Sniiih.
body.
Weigh

Fairy Sluecn,.

Shjkejptare'i Cymbtline.

To reprefent any thing as unfit or dan-

2.

To blot; to fully with infamy.
That lady, whom I had to me alhgn'd.

We fubmit to Csfar, promifing

tion.

d.jjtUiicni

2.

by reafon or im-

portunity from any thing.

The ftate of being liquefied.
3. The ftate of melting away ; liquefac-

3.

to tinge with an adventi-

ft.-iin ;

Nor ccas'd his arrows, till the (hady plain
Scv'n mighty bodies with their blood diffein.

fhkcviill en Pmidence.

3.

To

tious colour.

-

mency, Ihould fliewhimlelf unkind and inhuman ?

have reafon to wonder, in the great di/jhluterejt of manners which the world complains of,
that there arc any footlleps at ail left of virtue.

'^

thiftle.

nature, than that a man, naturally inclined to cle-

fl-.all

Dryd.

A fpecies of'

To Dista'in. v. a. [dis and /«/«.]

:

Loofenels ; laxity of manners ; debauchery.
If we look into the common management, we

I am a» fubjeft to heat as butter ; a
continual diffilulion and thaw.

emblem of the female
So the French fay. The crown of
France never falls to the difiaff.
It is ufed as an

fex.

can decide with confidence on the harmony or
the numbers of thcfe times.

[ from dijj'olule. ]
debauchery ; without re-

n. f.

2.

The Latin tongue is a dead language, and none

Rogers,

come thou. and fpin. Faiif.

Ran Coll our dog, and Talbot, with the b;ind
;
And Malkin, with her diflaff'm her hand. Dryd.

govern thou my fong.

But drive far oft' the barbarous dijpm(ime
Of Bacchus and hs revellers.

MtUfzn's ^'fiaolor.
muft dij/.tute are

The ftaff from which the flax is drawa
in fpinning.
In fum, proud Boreas never ruled fleet.
Who Neptune's web on danger's dij>ciff(f\m.
With greater pow'r than (he tlid make them wend
Each way, as (he that age's praift d'd bend. Sidney,
Weave thou to end this vcb which I b"gin;
I will the dijiajfholi,

plealing, unharmonious founds; unfuitableneis of one found to another.

Di'ssoLUTELY. Wi/.

8.

n. /.

A mixture of harfh, un-

Fr.]

diJTcnaiice,

Afi/ton,

The beauty of religion the
forced to acknowledge.

I.

Siuii.

DI'SSONANCE.

The true fpirlt of religion banllhes indeed all

Di'ssoi.t/TENESs.

1.

and a proltlfcd difregard to all fixed princi-

vail,

levity of behaviour, all vicious and JiffJute mirlh;

in

Di'staff. «./. [bij-taep, Saxon.]

Hayivard.

Thenceforth (hali prafli e liow to live fecure,
Worldly, or liij/chiti, on what their lords

Loofely ;

they be dij^l/ahfa; whether fj)ondee, trocTiec, or
iambiquc, it matters not.
Drydeti,

An univerfal diffdutwa of manners began to pre-

They cool'd in zeal.

fe'CO'ty-

difihika

the faculties.

A man of little gravit)-, 6r abftinence in u'ea-

but, in exchange, fills the

is a

of the fpirit of a man, and makes it loolc, foft,
and wandering, unapt for noble or.fpiritual employments.
Bp. Tajkr.
Fame mattes the mind loofe and gayifh, fcatteis
the fpirits, and leaves a kind o( dijiluticn upon a',1

Unawares furpris'd.
Fairy <9»«n.
Such iland in narrow lanes,

fures; yea, fometimes ajmoll dijp.lutc.

D I S

A Unging afiw fenfual pleafures

A giant huge and tall,

o( dji^nct, and
,

6.

won the race.

Space of time.
You muftdoitby</i/?j»crof time.

out
VEJiraitgt.

i^EJdr.v.nj.
I Kaip

'

1 help tny preftce by a prefcript, to t«II that

(hewed great murmur and dijlafltui itSacvn'i Apipbtbegmi.
The king having tafted of the envy ot the people, for his imprifonment of Edward Plantagenet,
was doubtful to heap up any more d'tfi.-.fln of that
kind by the imprifonment of De la Pole alfo.
-Baon't Henry VII.
On the part of heaven.
Now alienated, diitancc and di/lajb.
Milim's Faradife Lift.
Anger, and juft rebuke.
With ftern diftefte avow'd,
To' their own diftriils drive the fuitor crowd.

things future anJ at a Aifiame are capable of.
Tilhtfon.

.To judge light of bleflingj prayed fjri and yet

,

«t a Jijlana, we muft be able to know things fu-

Smahiflgti

ture.*

8. Ideal disjunftion ;

mental reparation.

The qualities that aS'cft our fcnfcs are,Jn tlic
things themfelve^.lo united aiMJ blended, thai there
Locke*
is no fcparation, n^ ^ijiana between chem.

'

Rcfpeft ; diftant behaviour.

5.

Dryder*
'Tis by refpeQ and iifiat:a that authority is up-

difrelifli.

JO. Reu-aftion of kindnefs ; referve ;
enation.

ali-

2.

Now alienated, oijlance and diHaftc,
Anjcr, and juft rebuke, and judgment giv'n.
Mihcn.

Burn like tlie mines of fulphur. ibtkejp, OtbeUo.
To diflike ; to loath.
I'd have it come to queflion;
If he diftafte it, let him to my fiftcr.
Stakif/ieare's King Lear.
I

To Di'sTANCE. f. a. [from the noun.]

quick light, or white, which appears to be on the
fide neateft to us, and the bbck by conlequencc
Dryden'i Dufrtjry.
dijlancii the objefl.

3.

make others diftafte them.
To offend; to difguft'.
Irifli

by

Di'sTANT. adj. \dijlans, Latin.]
Remote in place not near.
1

To vex; to exafperate

4.

In madnefs,
Being full of /upper and diftemp'rirg draughts.

Upon malicious bravery, doll thou come

Tn ftat my guilt?

To difturb; to fill with perturbation;
to ruffle.

Thou fee'ft,me much diftemfer'd in my mind |
PuU'd back, and then pulh'd forward to be kii;tl.
Dryden,

to four.

another is odious and diftaftiful. Gianviile^s Scepjti.

To deprive of temper or moderation.

4.

Difterrper'd zcal, fediiion, canker'd hate.

No more /hall vex the church and tear the tiate.
Dryden.

They will have admirers among poderity, and
be equally celebrated by thofc whole minds will _

not be difteinftrcd by intetelt, pafiirp, or partiality,

'

jiitdiUiCi Frecbolder*

To make^lifaffeiled, or m.^ignant.

5.

unpleafing.

Offenfive;

Once more to-day well met, diftemfer'd \oran

The king by me rcquells your prefence ftraight.

The vifitation, though fomewhat dift.:ftcful to
the Irifh lords, was fweet and welcome to tne comDavieu
mon people.

Miitm.

None but a fool diftafteful truth will tell

I felt.

Though difiatit from the worlds between. Afjloti.
The wond'rous rock the Parian marble Ihone,

So it be new and pleafe, tis full as well. Drydin.
Difttiftcful humoats, and whatever clfe may ren-

And fcem'd to diftant fight of folid ftonc.

der the convcrfation of men grievous and uncafy
to one another, are forbidden in the -New Tcfta-

Pefe.
Narrownefs of mind ftiould be cured by reading
biftorics of part ages, and of nations and countries
dijiant from our own.

ffalli't Imfrovemeitt of the Mind.

The fenfes will difcover things near us with fuf
aifi>, fo

ment.

With certain half-caps, and cold moving ricds.

far as

They froze me into fiience. SbakeffitarJi Tin:cn.
The ground might be the diftafteful averfenefs of

IVatts^i Logick,

2.

:

years, ten miles, diftant.
4. Referved ; fliy.
5. Remote in nature ; not allied.
What betides this unhappy fcrvility to cudom
can reconcile mcn.that own chriftianity, toapiactice fo widely d'ljlar.t from it ? Gov. eftbi 'tevgitt,
6. Not obvious; not plain.
It was one of the firll diftinflions of a well-bred
man to exprefs every thing obfcene in modeft terms
and diftant phrafes} while the clown clothed thofc
ideas in plain homely terms that arc the moft obAddijon't SftHaldr.
vious and natural.
difrclifh ;

.

;

flight illnefs; indiCpofition.
They heighten diftemptrs to difcafes. Sudtltng,
It argues ficknefs and dft/mpcr in the mind, as
well as in the body, when a man is contir.i.illy
turning and toHing.
South.
3.

Want pi due tempeMture.
It was a rcafonablc conje^ure,

'

He gives the leafon of the dlfiup of fatiety, and

4.

which were

fituated direflly

under the tro-

pick, were of a diftemfer uainhah:table.

Bad confiitution of the mind ; predominanco of any paffiou or appetite.
If little faults, p.ocrcding on diftemfer.

Baten't Nalurnl Hifttry,

Shall not be wink'd at, how ihill we ftretch our eye
Skaicjpcare' > Henry V.
At cipital crimes ?

2. Diflike ; nneafincfs.
Profperity is not without m»ny fears and lRfl,.flti,

Bonn' I EJfuyt.

Intemperatenefs ; excefs of heat or cold,

1

'or other qualitici.

Through this dftemferarure we fee

The feafons alter; hoary-headed fiofts
Fall in the frcfti lap of the crimfon rofe.

5.

Want of due balance between contrari(i.

Shaieff.

They were confumcd by thj difcommodities of
the country, and the diftemferature of the air.
ylkhot,

2.

Violent

tumultuoufoefs ;

outrageouf-

ncfs.
3.

Perturbation of the mind.

Thy earlinefs doth m^e aflure
Thoa art uprous'd by fome diftemperjture,
4.

Sbak,

Confufion ; commixture of contrarieties ; lofs of regularity.
At your birth
Our grandame earth, with tl>is diftemptraiure.
Slialufpeart'% Henry IV.
In patlion Oiook.
•"

thatthofe coun-

Rfitigb'i Hiftiry.

of the pleafurc in novelty in meats and drinks.

and adverCty it not without oiiiforts and hopes.

Diste'mperature. h, /. [from drfte/fi'

ff.

want of a due temper of ingredients.
A difeafe ; a malady the peccant predominance of Ibme humour; properly a

2.

dif-

guft.

Aquinas objefleth the diftemperate heat, which
be fuppofeth to be in all places directly under the
fun.
RaUigh's Hi^ory.

D s T e' M P E R y^ [dis znd temper. ]
1. A dilproportionate mixture of parts
I

.

Immoderate.

Bnwn.

the Chriftian from the Jew.

tries

n.f. {d!t and tafti. ]

I

fierate.]

After diftafteful looks.

•

Remote in time either pad or future.
as, ten
3. Remote to a certain degree

7itlofji.n.

Si^akejptare.

D s T e'm p e r a t e adj. [dit and temperMit.']

Malignant; malevolent.

3.

Sbakefpeare'i Oltelh.
Bc^le'i Hiftory ofhluid:.

har.l ftudy.

3.

;

'

He dift-'mpcrcd himfclf one night with long ami

Stiliin^Jlitt.

Naufeous to tiv; palate ; d^^gufting.
What to one palate h fweet and delicious, tn

1.

This heav'n which we behold

.

Young fon, it argues a diftemper'd head.
So foon to bid good-morrow t} (hy. bed.
Sbtiffeare's Remn and Juliet,
2. To diforder.

contented rtinds, than the opera to the fpleenful,
ambitious, dikakiiuliftafted, and diflra£ted fouls.
Pofe.

2.

D'lfian fo high.

T a's 1 E

To dileafe.

my words to

The whlftiing of the winds is better mufick to

;

Averfioa of the palate ;

There is a ficknefs,

Which puts fomc of us in diftemper; but
I cannot name the difeafe, and it is caught

Dista'steful. ^dj. [diftafte and full. ]

Purfued his wiflies in the dang'iou5 race;
Like the fwift hind the bounding damfel flies.
Strains to the goal ; the iiflanc'd lover dies. Gay,

1 8

lyaller.

8. Diforder ; uneafinefs.

of rcformatun, but fought to
Daviei.

a cjurfe

pleafc them.

great fuperiority.

1.

Siill as you rile, the Hate, exalted too,

Finds no diftttnptr while 'tis cbaog'd by you.

He thought it no policy to diftafte the Engliih or

2. To leave behind at a race the length of
a defiance ; to conquer in a race with

Enh daring lover, with advent'rous pace,

Tumultuous diforder.

am unwilling to believe thai he doth it with a

dcfign to play tricks, and fly-blow

To place remotely ; to throw off from
the view.
That which gives a relievo to a bowl, is the

King Cbariti,

liament.
7.

1.

Which at the firft are fcarce found to d'lftaftt.
But, with a little id upon the blood.

On the part of heav'n,

D

clination.
I was not forgetful of thofe fparka, which fomt
men's di/ltmpert formerly lluditd to kindle in par-

Dang'rous conceits are in their nature poifons.

If a man makes me keep my iijtance, the comSwift.
fort is, he keeps his at the fame time.

they relate to our neccfiary ufe.

6. Ill humour of mind; depravity of in-

TaDista'ste. V. <J. [from the noun.]
Of you thit yet are well. Slakejp. jyinter't Tale.
1. To fill the mouth with naufeoufnefs, or
To Diste'mper. f. a. \_dis and temfer.'\

Atltrhury.

held.

ficient eiaftnefs, and things diftattl

hard to keep; for both temper and A^^fujfCT- conBac^n,
fift of contraries.

Pofe't Odyjfcy.

I hope ycur modci^y
Will know what dyianct to the crown is due.

J.

The fnie temp«r of empire is a thing rare, ami

alienation of affefliott.

Julius Cacfir was by acclamation termed king,
to try how the people would take it : the people
•

Pmr.
Rcmotenefs in time either pail or future.
We"hive a much alijtjnce ot thefe things, as

•f.

Anger;

3.

jun Jfanct between one and the

theic it ten
other.

D I S

D I S

D I S

Tell how the w wid fell into this difeafe.
And how fo great diftewperature did grow. Daniel.

To DISTE'ND. -v.

a. [diftendo, Latin.]

To ftretch out in hreadtn.
Avoid enormous heights of fcven ftories, as well
at irregular forms; and the contrary faalt, of low
tFM>ii,
diftended fronts, is as unieemlj.

Thus all djy long the full difl<.ndtd clouds
Tk^mfan.
Indulge their genial ftores.

DlSTJi'tiT«

J

D I S

D I S

Diste'nt, part. pajf. {difientus, Latin.]
Spread,
Not a(ed.

S'.vords by the lightjiing's fubtle
force di/liird,

And the cold ihcath with running metal fi.l'd.

3.

That which falls in drops.

4.

The aft of diftilling by fire.

ftopt in, like a Aiov^dijlillaiim, withcloaths.

Shak.

Be-

Befides thofe grofler elements of bodies, fait,
fulphur, and mercury, ingredients of a more fubtile
nature, extremely little, and not vifible,
may efcapc
at the junaures of the dijlil/alory
veflels.
Boyle.

fove-

A couof lines ; an epigram
confiding only of two verfes.
The French compare anagrams, by themfelvej,

I fent for fpirit of fait to

z.

but when they are caft into a
diflUb, or

Lat.]

The Icperous dijiilmeni.

In vain kind fealuns fwcil'd the teeming grain
;
Soft.lhow'rs Ji/liWi, and funsgrcw warm, in vain.

t.

diftil,

I.

To flow gently and filently.

To let fall in drops

to drop an/ thing

The intention was, that the two armies, which
marched out together, Ihould afterwards be

or five words dijlmaly, it is requifife
that the body
percufling be a good dirtance oft;

,

.

j.

„,

Jisch thing on earth.

Draylon'i Cynthia.

From his fair head

4.

Frhr.

every part of it, which fell upon us
as fail as the
firft droppings of a (hower.
Addijm on
Italy.

force by fire through the veffels
of
diftillation; to exalt, feparate, or
purify by fire : as, diJldUd fpirits.

'Po

There hangs a vap'rous drop, profound
j
catch it ere it comes to ground
;

I'll

Sh*k. Mad.

Miht^r,

Marked out; fpecified.

a

I
.

{diJH„aio, Latin.]

The aft of difcernipg one %s preferable
to the other.

Addijon.

Distinctness, n.f. [irom diftina.]
1.

Mihcn.

Dominion hold
Over all living things that move on th'
earth.
Wherever thus created ; for no place
Is yet d,]l\r.fl by name.
Miltcn.

Disti'nction. n.f.

Newlon'i Optkku

.

of it d;fimiiiy by
glimmering rcfleftien that played upon them
from the furface of the water.

Spotted ; variegated.

Diflmft alike with multitude of eyei.

5.

,

After the light of the fun was a little
worn off
tny eyes, I could fee all the parts

diflh^i

Tempeftuouj fell
His arrows from the fourfold-vifag'd four,
Dipina with eyes ; and from the living
wheels

The roof is vaulted, and d)flil, frefli water from'

,

Was tall ftreight trees, which on the waters flew.

Hcav-n is high.

The Ihadcj wkii fweeu that fill'd.

.

Plainly; clearly.
The objea I could firft difiinaly view.

z.

Clear; unconfufed.
High and remote, to fee from thence

Shakcfpeare', OtbelU.

Bacon t Nat. HiR.
On Its fides it was bounded pretty diflmaiy, but
on Its ends very confufedly and indiftindlly,

TtlUtJon.

y^^

The evcninjJ'Jia-i <{ijlill\l.

And that, dijiilidhy magicic (lights.
Shall riife up Mtifici«J fprighu.

But not d,fi\nah,ely.

Clarcndcn.

Men have immortal fpirits, capable of a pleaforc
and happinefs difima from that of
our bodies.

To pure rofe-water turned was.

Perfumes itjid their fweets.

Whereof by parcels ihe had fomething heard.

di/lina.

--

nan abundantly.
The dew, which on the tender grafs

Vot. I.

did all my pilgrimage dilate.

of one part with another.
To make an echo that will report three, or four,

They pour down rain, according to the vapour
thereof, which the clouds do drop
and dijlil upon

^

I

Different ; feparate ; being apart, not
conjunft.

2.

down.

8.

[ from dftinilParticularly ; not confufedly.

tue.]

there-

Shakcfptarc's CjmhtUnt.

To Disti l. v. a.
;

Disti nctively. adv.

UiSTi NCTLY. ad'v. \ixom diftina.]
I. Not confufedly
without the confufioiv
;

Thy pupil long ? Haft thou not learn'd me how
To make perfamea, iifiU, preferve >

J.

,

fore, if a man would avoid
idolatry, he muft give
none at all.
Siillingfieet.
Fatherhood and property are dijtlna titles, and
began prefently, upon Adam's death, to
be in diftin-l perfoM.
Loctc.

Have I not been

,

PofeiOdyffiy.
.
TT
Having the power to diftinguifli and
difcern ; judicious.

Credulous and vulgar auditors readily believe
it,
and the more judiciaus and
diftinakiehtiit do not
-''J^'^;^Br,^.n.

Different; not the fame in number or
kind.
Vafquez

diilillation.

_

2.

ShakeffeareS Hamlet.

faith, it i$ idolatry to give
diftina worlhip :

To ufe a ftill ; to pradlife the aft of

_,

ence.
For from the natal hour, diJllnBlvi name*.

m

Raltigh't Hifiory.

North.

,

One cjmmon right the great and lowly claims,

Btllarmin faith, it ii idolatry to give the fame
worOiip to an image which is»uetoGodi

Anncaia, aad fallech into the gulph of Perfii.

.

Dilcernment ; judgment.
DiSTi'tJCTiVE. adj. [from diftina.']
1
That which marks diftinftion or differ-

DISTI'NCT. adj. [dijtinau,, Lat.]

Pope,
Pctt.

The Euphrates SftMctb out of the mountains of

3.

'"ii4'"'"y-

9.

And in the porches of mine ears did pour

To drop ; to fall by drops.

Cryftal drops from min'ral riofi

One who makes and fells pernicious and

but now obfolete.
Upon my fecure hour thy uncle Hole,

In power, a fervantj out of power, a friend. Pcpe
[dijiillo,

Sophy.
trntn this dlflinaion of real and apparent
gooJ,
fome diftinguifii happinefs into two forts, real
and

eoyle.

which is drawn by diftillation ; that
which drops. A word formerly ufed,

CamJtni Remaini.

I.

Bacon, Holy War,
This will puzzle all your logick and
di/linSicnt
toanfwerit.
De,:ham's

Disti'lment. »./ [from <///?;•/.] That

The bard, whofe JiJUcb all commend.

error :

tions aad dpnOiom.

inflammatory fpirits.

epigram, to genu enchafed in enamelled gold.

all

away therefore that error, which confufioa
breedeth, d^ivilitn is requifite.
Hooker,
Lawfulnefs cannot be handled without limita-

a very eminent di/l!ller

of 't-

plet; a couple

To DISTl'L. -v. n.

by nature are divided, is the mother of

diftilling.

Di STICK, n.f. {^dipcbon, Lat.]

Notation of difference between things
feemingly the fame.
The mixture of thofe things by fpeech, which
to taki;

Disti'ller. n.f. [from <///?//.]
I. One who praftifes the art
or trade of

Fairy ^iitn,

to gems ;

8.

tion.

Not ufed.

,

kno^vn ; or, if it were, it is yet fo darkly
delivered
to us, that we cannot make it out.
Drydcn on Dramatick Poefy.
.

longing to diftillation; ufed in diftilla-

rfotioti's ArcbittRure.

Divifion into different parts.
The diJUamn of tragedy into afls was not

7.

pangs of an egregious deJth, to be

DisTi llatory. adj. [from dipl.]

Drydcn^

.

•

Hath to it circumllantial branches, which
Dlfthaion fliould be rich in.
Sbalefp. Cymiefate.

The fubftance drawn by the ftill.
I luffercd the

By his death he it recovered ;
But Peridure and Vigent him difitnmxej.
_^

c

^"'

o. Reparation of complex notions.
This fierce abridgment

affords a fpirit, or volatile alkaline
ialt, and two
Idnds of oil, and an earth. A.-butbmit on Atimcntu

yoDisTHRo'NizE. v. a. [dij ztid tirojie.]
reignty.

,

Nnoton.
rhe ferum of the blood, by a ftrong dijiillatim,

The aft of feparating one part from another ; divarication.
Our legs do labour more in elevation than in
from

j

The fwecping deluge, love, comes on, and covers

Water by (xei^MMdiflillatiam changes into fixed

5.

Lw/r.

S- Difference regarded ; preference or negleft in comparifon with fomething elfc.
Maids, women, wives, urithout dipmainn
fall

"^f''-

by the thing

depofe

of matter.

The aft of dropping, or falling in drops.
2. The aft of pouring out in
drops.
1.

ftretched.
Wind and dijlmkn of the fcowtis are figni of a
bad digeftion in the inteftines ; for in dead animals, when there is no digclion at all, the Hif.entkn is in the grcateft extrrmitj'.
Arbuihtiot,

to

parla

Distilla'tion. »./ [dijlillatlo, Lat.]

Diste'ntiok. n.f. [dijlenlio, Latin.]
1. The aft of ftretching j (late of things

dethrone ;

This faculty of perception puts the
difimahn betwixt the animal kingdom, and the inferior

Addljin.

ing precifely the fame height, 3iall yet be diftenJed
one fourteenth part longer ; which addition of
dlptnl wi:i confer much to their beauty, and detraft but little from their ftrength.
tfotton.

ShitHifi,,

Note of difference.
;
3. Honourable note of fuperiority.
4. That by which one differ^from another.

4. To diflblve or melt.

breadth.
Not"much in ufe.
Thofe arches are the gracefuUeft, which, keep-

To

Puffing at all, winnows the light away.
z.

frequent vicifiitudes of fluidity and firmQCfj. Boy/e.

Some in round pUtMwithoucen mnniinent Sperfer.
Diste'nt. n. f. [from dijienj.]
The
fpace through which any thing is fpread

ilijimim.

In the windand tempeft of fortune'* frovn,
Difimfiicn, with a broad and powerful fan,

to extraft by

The liquid diJ/iUed from benzoin is fubjeft to

Into great ingors and 'o wedges fqua'e.

3.

;

the force of fire.

Some others were new driven and i'lflmt

1. Brcidth; fpace occupied
diflended.

To draw by diftillation

3.

D I S

Nice obfervation of the difference between different things.
The membranes and humours of the eye
arr:

perfeftly pellucid, and void of colour,
for the clearnefs, and far the
d}Jlha„tf>, of vifion. Ray on Creat.

2.

buch reparation of things as makes
them eafy to be feparately obferved

n DlSTI'NGUISH. ^. a.

id.ftingu,.
J
e>
•
>.

Lat.]

To note the diverfity of things,
B

Righty

of mankind, and

Hosier.

•wherein they differ.

tinguifxr of times, and vifible deity, the fun.
Bri'u;ni Vulvar £rroun.

Let us revolve that roll with ftrifteft eye,

Disti'nguishincly. adz: [from di/linguijhing.'] With diftinClion ; with fome
mark of eminent preference.
Some call me a Tory, becaufe the heads of that

Burnit't thnry.

party have been dijiinguijhingly favourable to me.
Pope.

4. To know one from another by any mark
So long

By our reafon we are enabled to dijl.nguljh good

To writhe

I.

To difcern critically

;

I fee

!

my nether (hape thus grew

M'llton.
Transform'd.
Wrath and malice, envy and revenge, do darken
Tillotfon.
and </j/!Drr the underftandings of men.

Chriftian inftruflion, amongft which he fcldom
Locke.

Something muft be dijlorted belide the intent
Peacbam on Poetry,
of the divine inditcr.

Disto'rtion. n,/. [dijiortio, Lat.]

The readers muft learn by all means to dj/lh-

He by his tears and by his lighs complains.

which beautify converfation.

In England we fee people lulled aflcep with folid
and elaborate difcourfes of piety, who would be
warmed and tranfported out of themfelves by the
bellowings and diftortiim of enthufiafm.

Capable of being diftinguifhed ; capable of being known, or made known, by
notes of diverfity.
Impenitent, they left a race behind
Milten.
The a£>ing of the foul, as it relates to percepchoice
oravertion,
decinon,
to
and
purfuit,
and
tion

nent parts, d'tji'.KguijbaHe a? they relate to God, our
neighbour, and ourfelves. Govemmtnt of the Tongve
Being dinblved in aqueous juices, it is by the
Boyle.
eye d jVnguiJbablt from the folvent body.
fimplc idea, being in itfelf uncompoundec",
contains nothing but one uniform appearance, or
conception in the mind, and is not dijiingvijhable

A

Confufion ; ftate in which the attention
called different ways.
Never was known a night of fuch diJiralHon, -

2.

is

Noife fo confus'd and dreadful ; joftlir.g crowds.

That run and knew not whither. Dryd. Span. Fr,
What may we not hope from him in a time of

Prior.

quiet and tranquillity, fmce, during the late difmuch for the advantage of

trafiicntt he has done fo

our trade

Lotke.

Addifon's Sfe^ator.

The irafcible pailions folloif the temper of the
heart ; the concupifciblc diflrtflicnz, the crafis of
the liver.
B. •«•».

3.

their parents expiring together, would have melted

Bro^un's Vulgar Err:ur:.

placed.

2.

To feparate

to divide.
By fea, by fea.
^Moft worthy Sir, you therein throw awiy
The abfulute foldierthip you have by land
Diftralt your army, which doth moll confift
Of war-mark*d footmen. Shakefp, Ant. and Chop.
;

;

3.

If he cannot wholly avoid the eye of the obit by a multiplicity of
Soutb.
the objeft.

fervcr, he hopes to diftred

4.

Ts fill the mind with contrary confiderations ; to perplex ; to conibund ; to

Fut fins committed, with many aggravatiotw of
wraih will be feven times
hotter, and burn with a dijlir.guijhej fury.
RDgert.
Never on roan did heav'nly tavour (bine
With tays fu (trong, dijlinguijV d, and divine.

guilt, the furnace of

Od\£iy.

Dxsti'ncuisher.w./. [isom dijlingu'ifl} .]
one that ascu-

ratcly difcerns one thing from another.

While 1 fufTer thy terrors I am iijiranid. Pftlms.
Come, coulin, canll thou quake, and change thy

Tatter.

.

Madnefs; franticknefs; lofsof the wits;
vagrancy of the mind.

4.

Madam, this is a mere diji ruffian
You turn the good we offer into envy. Sbakefpeare*
So to mad Pentheus double Thebes appears,
And furies hf wl in his di(femper'd ears
Orefte? fo, with like dsjiraHion toft,

made to fly his mother's angry ghod. ff^allcr,
Commiferate all thofe who labour under a. fettled dijiradnn, and who are (hut out from all the
pleafures and advantages of buman commcice.

Is

To turn from a fingle diredlion towards
various points.

harafs.

extraordinary.

the hardeft heart.

The needle endeavours to conform unto the meridian ; but, being diftraHed, driveth that way where
the greater and powerfuller part of the earth is

endeavour that my betters Hiould feek
me by the merit of fomething d]Jiingu:Jbatle, inSivifr,
ftead "f my fceking them.

Eminent ; trankendent ;

The dijlra.lion of the children, who faw both

To pull different ways at once.

1

I would

Disti'ncuished. participial aJj. [from

AJdifon'i Fnehalder.

.>

To DISTRA'CT. v. a. part. pafT. diJiraSed ; anciently dijlraught ; and fometimes

Worthy of note ; worthy of regard.

;

While he was yet in Rome,
His power went out in fuch diJimUicni, as
Beguird all fpies.
Shakefp. Antony ard Cleopatra,

Perturbation of mind ; violence of fome
painful pailion.

HaU'i Origin af Mankind,
is dtjUnguifrable to U3.
I llijU diftribute duty into its principal and emi-

A judicious obfervcr

tion.

dijirad. \dijira3us, Latin.]

I/ike to therofelvcs, di/lirguiJ/jaHe fcarce
From Gentiles, but by circumcifion vain.

P(!fe'\

Tendency to different parts; fepara-

1.

is

[mjb between proverbs, and thofe polite fpeeches
Sviift.

Sbakefpeare'i Ttvelflb Night.

Distra'ctedness. n.f. [from d:Jlracl.y'
The ftate of being diilrafted madnefs.
Distra'ction. n.f. \diJira{lio, L.itin.J

Ir-

regular motion by which the face
writhed, or the parts difordered.
By his dijioriioni he levcals his pains

Di»ti'kcuishabi.e. adj. [from <///?<//-

For (he did fpeak in ftarts diJlraSledlf,

To wreft from the true meaning.

3.

It.

Methought her eyes had crofs*d her tongue ;

;

With fear and pain
Dijiorted, all

fails to enlarge on the great and d'lftUguipmg doc-

tinttion ; to find or (hew the difference.
He would warily d'iftir.guijh between the profit of
the merchant and the gain of the kingdom.
Child'! Difcourfe en Trade.

;

ture.

St. Paul's Epiftles contain nothing but points of

To make known or eminent.
To make difTo Disti'ncuish. 1:

;

Svfft.
Nor dare diftarl my face for (hamc.
N ow mortal pangs <fj/!«rr his lovely form. Sm:th.
z. To put out of the true diredlion or pof-

6. Toconftitute difference ; to fpecificate;
to make different from another.

7.

Distra'ctedly. ad-v, [from diftraa.l
Madly frantickly.

her tafte each naufeous draught,

1 blefs the hand from whence they came.

S«e. t prince, th' untainted virtue of your years

Hath not yet div'd into the world's deceit
Nor more can you dift'ingwjb of a man.
Shakrff. Rkt. III.
Than of his outward (hew

into different ideas.

Bacon,
You (hall find a difiroEled man fancy himfelf a
king, and with a right inference require fuitable
attendance, refpcO, and obedience.
Locke.

to twifl; to deform by ir-

And fo obligingly am caughr

to judge.

trines of our holy religion.

;

grief of his difeafe, and fell diJiraHedof her wits.

[dijiortus, Lat.]

regular motions.

Wnttt's Lcgui.

I.

Sbakefpeare'i Comedy
»f Errfurtk
Better I were diftroB,
So (hnutd my thoughts be fevcr'd from my griefs,
And woes, by wrong imagination, lofe
The knowledge of themfelves. Shakefp. King Ltar%
She was unable in (Irength of mind to htnc the

To make correSions upon the fearchers reports, I

from evil, as well as truth from falfehood.

dijiiagiiijb.']

Let us come in, that we may bind him faff.

And bear bim home for his recovery.

confiJered whether any credit at all were to be given
to their diftingwjhmeni:. Graunt'i Bills of Mortality,

To DISTO'RT. f. a.

:

to make mad in whatever mode.
Wherefore throng you hither ?—
—To fetch my^oor dl^radcd halhini hence:

ference.

We

have not yet been feen in any houle,
Nor can we be Jifiinguijh'd, by our faces,
For man or mailer. Hbaliff. Tom. c/tte Shrni:

Z.

To

make mad properly, by an unfettled and vagrant fancy ; but, popularly,

5.

Diftinftion; obfervation of dif-

gu>Jh.'\

As he could make me, with his eye or ear,
Diftiitgtiijb him from others, he did keep
Shaiejftare's CymicTmi'
The deck.

I.

I

DiSTi'NGtJiSHMENT. n.f. [from dijiin-

or note of difference.

5.

moderate cares.
Rty.
If our fenfe of hearing were a thoufand time*
quicker than it is, how would a perpetual noife
We (hould, in the quieteft retire,
i/rjfl us
ment, be lefs able to Deep or meditate than in thtfmiddle of a fea-fight.
Locke.

of their
Dryitn.

He that feparates one thing from another by proper marks of diverfity.
Let us admire the wifdom of God in this itj-

z.

M< &> dlJI'iniJjht% the caufej of the flood into
thofe tha: belong to the heavenj, and ihofe that
belong to the earth, the rains, and the abyfs.

flidled with violent paflions, or difiraffed

_

They diiiiiguifi) my poems from thofe of ether
men, and have made roe their peculiar caie. DryJ.
Where, faft from time, tl:jiingiiifi'i aflions lie. Pr.
3. To divide by proper notes of diverfity.

a ptrfeft dijlinguijhcr

talents.

To feparatc from others by foroe mark
of honour or preference.

He piflelTes a quiet and cheerful mind, not af.
mth im.

If writers be juft to the memory of Charles 11.
they cannot deny him to have been an exafl knower

Rijlitly »o iifiUtnifi), is, by corctil of the mind,
Ic fcuT things diffeient in nature, and to difcern

3.

D I S

D I S

D 1 S

'^'

Aitirhury,

Diflurbance; difcord; difference of fen-

5.

timents.

The t\vo armies lay quiet near each other, without improving the confufion and dijlraiiiin which
thttklng'sfiircesweic too much inclined to.
Clar.
Distra'ctive.<7^'. [ from </{;?» j<9.] Caof-

ing perplexity.
Oft grown unmindful through dijlrafiive cares,

colour.

Murder thy breath in middle oi a word,

And then again begin, and (lop again.
As if thou wttt di/lraugbl and mad with terror ?

I've Itretch'ii my arms, and touch'd'bim unawares.

To DISTRA'IN. f. a.

Sbakefteare'i Richard HI.
It would burft forth ; but I recover breath.

And fenfc diftrjS to koow »x!l what 1 utier.
Aliitin'i Agir.ijiei,

[from

diftringo,

Latin.]
I.

To fei/.e

;

to lay hold on as an indem>

aiiication for a debt.
Here's

D I S
t.

D IS

D I S

Hcre't Beauford, that regards not God nor Icing,

Of thjt peculiar matter out of which the iod'es

Hath here difirainj the Tower to his ufe. Stat.,
To rend ; to tear: not in ufc. Spenfer,

of vegetables and of animals are formed, water is
the common vehicle and dijhibuter to the parts of
thofe bodies.
Wad-iuard,

To make feizure.

ToDistra'in. f >i.

He Aeweth himfelf unto fuch as de not dl/lrii^
him.

Camden I Rnttains,

to others

D

2.

Diftrafted.

and, if he were

is

dillinguifhed

into

feveral parts

by

its

;

as, dijiributi've

tenceor claim.
Dryden.
Obfcrvc the diflribuii-ve juftice of thi? authors,

in

the rules of their beft criticks.

moon, and in the flars ; and upon earth difirtjs of
nations, with perplexity, the fea and the waves
huie^ xxi. 25.
roaring.
People in aSllAionor diflrefi cannot be hated by

generous minds.

That which aiCgns the various fpecies
of a general term.
Djstri'butivelv. adv. [from dijlributi've.
1.

By diftribution.

2.

Singly; particularly.
Ahhough we cannot be free from all fin collec-

to

Diftrijs not the Moabites, neither contend with

them in battle.
I

Diut. ii. j.

am dijirejfed for thee, my brother Jonathan.
2 Sam, I, z6.

Distre'ssfol.
1.

Miferable;

aeij.

full

3.

[liijlre/s a.nAfull.'\

of trouble;

full

particulars

tively

Sbakeffeare' 1 OibtHo,
The ewes ftill folded, with diftendcd thighs,

Pope't Odyjfey.

1.

Dijirefiful ini defnlating events, which have attendea the millalccs 01 politicians, (hould be piefent
in their minds.
H'tJlls,

Stakrfpeaie,

meaning

each of
Watli't Loght,

Shall grieve him, if 1

fail not ; and dijiurb
His inmoft counfcls_/riff: their deftin'd aim. Milt,

Region ; country ; territory.
Thofe diflrifii which between the tropicks lie,

Sbairffeare'i Cmc/nnui.

Sudden difplay.

it.

Locke,

_

Confufion ; diforder of thoughts.
They can furvey a variety of complicated ideas
without fatigue or difiurbance. JVatti on the Mind*

Tumult

violation of peace.
;
This mifchicf had not then befalKn,
And more that ftiall bcfal innumerable
Diflurbancei on earth through female fnares. Milt,

3.

A word little ufed.

I.

A violater of peace ; he that caufes tumults and publick diforders.
He ftands in the fight both of God and men
moft juftly blameable, as a necdlefs dijiurber of the
peace of God's church, and an author of diU'enfion*
Hocker*

A fmile plays with a furprizing agreeablcnefs in

Men that make an infolt upon fociety, ought to

the eye, breaks out with the brighteft diftrHI'nn,
and fits like a glory upon tlic countenance.

behumbled, ^i difJurbers of the publick tranquillity.

;

penfer.
There wertjudges and di/lrihuteri of juftice apf ointed for the feveial patu of his dominions.
Mdifin in Iialj.

to

2.

Distu'rber. n.f. [hom di/lurb.']

The fcorching beams, diredlly darted, fry. Blaclm.

Distributer, n. /, [from dijfriiu/e.]
One who deals out any thing a dU-

fettled

:

DisTRi'cTiON. n.f. \_diftri£}us, Latin.]

She did diflrikute her goods to all them that
were neareft of kindred.
Judith, xvi. 24.

interruption of a

The denomination of money concerns trade, and
the alteration of that neceffarily brings dijiurhixnct

Addifon.

To their own diftrias drive the fuitor crowd.
3.

Perplexity;
ftate.

With ftcrn diftafte avow'd,

Spenfer,

The fpoil got on the Antiates

1.

Circuit of authority ; province.

Pope's Odyffey.

the land.

Distu'rbance. ti. f. [from diJlurb,']

n.f. {dijlri^us, Latin.]

deal out ; to difpenfate.

The king fcnt over a great ftore of gentlemen
and warlike people, amongft whom he difinbuted

witli

;

This is not ufual.
It oft-times may fuccced, fo as perhaps

from.

The circuit or territory within which a
man may be compelled to appearance.

dipr-.ai.

To DISTRI'BUTE. -v. a. {dijlnbuo, Lat.]
To divide amongl^ more than two ; to

To turn off from any direftion

4.

fufion ; tumultuary emotion.
Inftant without (///?«rA they took alarm,
And onward move enibattel'd
Milton,

His governors, who formed themfelvcs upon the
example of their grand monarquc, pradtifed all the
arts of defpotick givernmcnt in their refpeflive

He, with a body fiU'd, and vacant mind,
CetJ him to reft, cramm'd with diftrefiful bread.

to hinder : as, ca.re dip-

Distu'rb. n.f. [from the verb.] Con-

CoiJveH.
2.

Attended with poverty.

;

tiobs Audy.

exprefles fingly all

for all its particular ideas united together
j

Di'sTRicT.

Unmillc'd, lay bletting in £prejiful cries.

To interrupt

put into irregular

to

included in a general

tltat

and fometimes difiiibutively,
them finglc and alone.

That my youth fufFer'd.

To confound ;
motions.

2.

An univerfal term is fometimes taken collec-

often did beguile her of her tears.

Was not dijlribused,

Call'icr on Envy.
His youth with wants andhardftiips muft engage;
Plots and rebellions muft dijiurb his age.
Prior,

term ; not colleftively.

When I did fpeak of fome diftrefifuL ftroke

2,

In a manner
the

of

mifery.
I

He that has his own troubles, and the happinefs
of his neighbours, toi/i/Zar^hlm, has work enough,

3.

tively. In fuch fort that no part thereof ftiall be
found inherent in us; yet, dj/lributively at the
leaft, all great and grievous aftual oftcnccs, as they
offer the.Tifelvcs one by one, both m.'y and ought
to be by all means avoided.
ihokir,

crufh with calamity.

ad'v.

tranquillity.

]

To profecute by law to a feizure.
to make miferable ;
2. To harafs

Pope.

[ftom dtjlruj}yi/.] In a diftrullful manner.
DiSTRu's TFULNESS. n.f. [from dijirujlfuL] The ftate of being dittruftful ;
want of confidence.
To DISTU'RB. "J. a. {difturho, low Lat.]
1. To perplex ; to difquiet ; to deprive of

S-wift.

To Distre'ss. 1'. a. [from the noun.]
;

DisTRu'sTFULLY.

2.

ClariJJa.

1.

Difiruftful fenfe with modeft caution fpeaks

which is conftantly applied to the punifliment of
virtue, and the reward of vice, dirtdlly oppofite to

the

Govern, of the Tongue.

of himfelf; modeft ; timo-

But rattling nonfcnfe in full voUies breaks.

Juftice methinks is not difiributi-ve.

and

Diffident

3.

Watts.

If juftice will take all, and nothing give,

be figns in the fun,

The great coiruptors of difcourfe have not been
fo d'ifinijiful of themfeives.

fpecies.

juftice, that which allots to each his fen-

And to the nightingale's complaining notes
Tune my diflriffti, and record my woes. Shalifp.

Not confident ; diffident.

2.

rous.

others their portions

4. Calamity ; raifery; misfortune.
There can J fit alone, unfeen of any.

fufpicious.
Generals often harbour diftrujiful thoughts in
their hreafts.
hoyle's SerapUck Live,

diftinguiih a
univerfal whole into its feveral kinds of

That which is employed in afligning to

1

Coivell.

Oiall

integral whole

Distri'butive. adj. [from djflribule,]

The thing feized by law.

There

As an

properly ufed, when v.e

Spenfer,

Quoth (he, fome fay the foul 's fecurc

3.

Attirlury.

[In logick.]

[dijlriiji dtaA full,'\

Apt to diftruft ;

1.

by this

divifion ; fo the word diftribution is moll

not paid, he would ftraight go and nVx i di/lrrft of
goods and cattle, where he could £nd thcni, tu the

2. A comptlfion in real aftions, by which
a man is aflured to appear in court, or
to pay a debt or duty which he refufed.

DiSTRu'sTFUL. adj.

in charity.

tion of benefits and returns.

3.

Iludiiras,

Aft of giving

Your foul 's abos'e the bafcnefs of difirufi ;
Nothing but love could make you fo unjuft. Vryd,

pattern of nature, and maintain a mutual circula-

DISTRE'SS. »./• {.deftrefft, French.]
1. The aft of making a legal feizure.

Againft i///7r^i and forfeiture.

j

;

Irft us govern our charitable diflributm:

He bad been a good military man in his days,
but was then dijiravgbt of his wit- , Camd, Ritn,

value.

You doubt not me nor have I fpent my bloodi
To have my faith no better undcrft'-od

L'Eflrjnge.
^
Every man in a great ftation would Imitate the
queen inthci/^Wiai'/cnofofficesinhisdifpofal. S-zu.

DisTRA'uGHT./nrr. adj. [from </^ra^.]

\

Baccn's EJJays.

(hare.

Seiz-

Dia.

He would firft demand his debt

MUtcn,
Sufpicion ; want of faith ; want of confidence in another.

2.

Providence has made an equal diftribulkn of natural gifts, whereof each creature feverally has a

that feizes.
ure.

To me reproach
Rather belongs, diflrufi, and all difpraife.

;

in the dlflriiutkn.

.

Distra'int. »./ [from </r/?r«;».]

fidence.

difpenfation.
Of great ricbi-s there is no real ufe, except it be

Marvel.
Upon the Britifli diadem diJIrain'J.
He
w. /. [from dijlrain. ]
1 5 T R a'i N E R

[from the verb.]
lofs of credit ; lofs of con-

n./.

Difcredit ;

1

The carl anlwcrea, I will not lend money to my Distribu'tion. n.f, [d-Jlrihitio, Lat.]
1. The aft of diftributing or dealing out
fupcrior, upon whom I cannot (///J^am for the debt,
Blood, his rent to have regain'd.

fViJdtm,

DiSTRu'sT.

&//<>/ on the AfpcB.

To DisTRu'sT. V. a. [dii and tru^.]
regard with diffidence }
not to truft.

To

to difHde in ;

Addiftint

Ye great dlflurbers, who in endlefs noife.
In blood and horror, feck unnatural joys ;
For what is all this fouftle, but to ihun
Tbofc thoughts with which you dare not be alone ?
Cranvilte,

4 B 2

z.

He

V

YeDiSTu'RN. 1/. a.

To

Tii'TTitD. adj. [irom dittj.] Sung; adapted to mufick.
He, with bis foft pipe, and fmooth dittitd fong,
Well knows to ftill the wild winds when they

Stakeffeare.

ther.

Not in ufe.
turn off ; to turn afide.
He gUd was to JiJIurn that furious ftrcam

Diswi'tted.

adj.

[dis

De-

and ou/V.]

DITTY, n.f. [dicht, Dutch,]

She ran away alone

Which whtn they heard, there was not one

tion.

But hafted after to be gone,

What can be more to the diJvalHatiin of the
power of the Spaniard, than that eleven thoufand
Englilh fliouid have maicbed into the heart of his

Drayton's Nymftid.

As (he had been diftvilltd.

DiT. ». /. [ dicht, Dutch.] A ditty ; a
poem ; a tune. Obfolete.
Bacon.
countries ?
No bird but did her (hriU notes fweetly fing
fe Disva'h;b. o/. a. [Jis and'value.] To
No fong but did contain a lovely dii. Fairy Sueen.
undervalue to fet a low price upon.
Dita'tion. n.f. [ditatus, Latin.] The
Her reputation was dijvaiyid
;

;

'

In levity.

aft of enriching.

Sbakejftare't Mtajurtfar Mtajurt.

Thofe eaftern worlhippers intended rather ho-

The very fame pride which prompu a man to

mage than dilation j the blelfed virgin comes in the

Taunt and overvalue what he is, does as forcibly
incline him to contemn and dijavcw what he has.

Cwcrnmmt of the Tongue.
To Disve'lop. v. a, [^develofer, French.]

To uncover.

form of poverty.

I

[</;V

Erfe.]

and «»/«».]

Grfw's Cojmologia Sacra.

Let not peace be made before the difunion of
jiddifott's Statt of tie ffur.
Trance and Spain.
The ftrengthofit will join itfcif to France, and
grow the defer to it by its difunion from the reft.

;

In the great plagues there were feen, in divers ditches and low grounds about London, many
Bacon.
toads that had tails three inches long.

3.

The bcaft they then divide, and difunite
The ribs and limbs.
Papt's Odyffey.
2.

To part friends or allies.

SeDlsuNi'iE.

To

fall afunder ; to become feparate.
Whi.e every particular member of the publick
provides folcly for itfelf, the fevcral joints of the

body politick do feparate and dijunite, and

come ur>able to fupport the whole.

Disu'nity. n,/. [dis and u/iitjt.]

beSouth.

A ftale

and u/age.]

li-ver.]

gradual ceHation of ufe or cultoni.
They cut offprefently fuch things as might be
cxtinguilhed without danger, leaving the reft to be
aboliHied by difu/age through trafl of time. Hooker.

DlStj'sE. n.f. [dis and u/e.]
1. Ceflation of ufe; defuetudc ; want of
praftice.

The difu/t of the tongue is the orly efFedual remedy agaiiift thefe.
Addifon'i Guardian,
2. Ceflation of cnHom.

Brought forth in a ditch.

Finger of birth-ftranglcd babe,
Ditcb-dtlitier'd by a drab.

D i't c H E R ». /. Lfron»
.

''''''*•

]

anciently, and now among the Italians,
the diftraftion of ebriety is imitated.
Any poem written with wildnefs and

enthufiafm.

Di thyr<v'mbick. «J<^'. Wild ; enthuCa (lick.
Pindar does new words and (igares roll
CoivUy.
Down his impetuous diihyramhick tide.

As nittirr'i inftitutc is yet in force,
Vncanc;ird, though difjs'd.
Drydtn's Fai/et.
Priam in arms dij'ui'd invella his limbs decny'd.

Ditta'nder. H./. The fame with pepperwort,

Dryden.

i.

n.f. [diSlamnus, Latin.]
To difaccuftonv: with/r<ww or to ; more Di'ttanv.
upon
Dittany hath been renowned, formany ages,

properIy/ro*T.
D:jife mil from the ((ucafy pain

Of hcinj btlov'd aail leviiij;.

'

Honm.

Pope's Odypy.

To DIVA'RICATE. v, n.
Latin.]

medicines.
the account of its fovereign qualities in
It is generally brought over dry from the ^"*"^'

[ dii>aricatus,.

To be parted into two; to be-

come bifid.
The partitions are ftrained acrofs

:

one of them

divaricates into two, and another into fcveral fmall

Wmdtvard,

ones.

To Diva'ricatb. t/. «.

To divide intO'

two.

A (lender pipe is produced forward towards the
throat, whereinto it is at laft inferted, and is there
divaricated, after the fame manner as thc.fperma*

Grew,

tick ve(rcls.

D V A R c a't ion. n.f. [di'varicatioy'LzX.]
I

I

Partition into two.

1.

Dogs, tunning before their mafters, will ftop at
till they fee which hand:

a divarication of tlie way,
their martcrs will take.

2.

m

'Tis law, (hfiughcuflom now diverts thecourfc !

Forth rulh'd in hafte the great confulting pecrs^
Rais'd from the dark divan, and with like joy
Milton,.
Congratulant approach'd him.
Swift to the queen the herald Medon ran,
Who heard the confult of the dire divan.

°"^ ^'•^

You merit new employments daily.
Our thatcher, ditcher, gard'ner, baily. Smft.
Dithyra'mbicic. n.f. [ dithyramhus
Latin.]
A fong in honour of Bacchus ; which

jlrbuthnot.

To Disu'sg. v. a. [dis and ufe.]
\, To ceafe to make ufe of.

:

Shakefp. Macbeth.

digs ditches.

That obligation upon the lands did not prefcribe,
or come into dijujct butty fifty confccutive years.

an Arabick or Turkifh

The council of the Oriental princes.
Any council aflembled ufed commonly

2.

'^'"f''

Ditch-delivered, adj. [difcb and de-

The

[

word. ]
1.

To

have employed my time,be(ides</)fciiB|:, in (1-

nilhing my travels.

More.
[dis

Ditch, v. n. [from the noun.]
make a ditch.
I

monads.

Shakeffeare.

dog.
Tff

Dryden.

Diva'n. n. /.

bitch is ufed, in compofition, of any
thing worthlefs, or thrown away into

dung for fallets, fwallows the old rat, and the ditcb-

fo

Difuniiy is the natural property of matter, which
is nothing elfe but an infinite congeries of phyfical

Knolles.

ditches.
Poor Tom, when the foul fiend rages, eats cow-

of a£lual reparation.

Disu'sACE. n, /.

The moat with which a foruefs is furrounded.
The ditches, fuch as they were, were altogether
dry, and eafy to be pafiiid over.

4.

ni.n. [dis uni unite.]

exorable windows lamentable diitiei, and call thee

in a fenfe of diflike.

tempt.

to divide.

Milton,

They will be fighing and finging under thy in-

Thomjar,.

water
z. Any long narrow receptacle of
ufed fometimes of a fmall river in con-

z. Breach of concord.

To 'eparate

TemperM to th* oaten flute j
Rough fatyrs danc'd.

cruel.

Arkuthnot's Hiflory of John Bull.
Sudden the ditches fwell, the meadows fwinn.^

M the IVar.

To Disuni'te. v. a. \dis and unite.]
1.

Htokert

Being young, I framed to the harp
Many an Englilh ditty lovely well.
And gave the tongue a helpful ornament. Sbak,
Strike the melodious harp, (hriil timbrels ring.
And to the warbling lute foft ditties (ing. Sandys,
His annual wound in Lebanon, allur'd
The Syrian damfels to lament his fate.
In am'rous ditties, all a fummer's day.
Milton,
Mean while the rural ditties were not mute,

his fences, and level his ditcbei.

:

./iddijm

puilTance and efiicacy, greatly available to bring to
a perfcft temper whatfoevcr is there troubled.

Some a(ked for manors, others for acres that
down
lay convenient for them ; that he would pull

Reft is moft oppofite to motion, the immediate
Glanvi/li'i Scrf/s.
(aufe of dijumon.
Difunitn of the corporeal principles, and the
vital, caufcth death.

diii,

tion oi ditty or matter, the very harmony of founds
being framed in due fort, and carried from the ear
to the fpiritual faculties of our fouls, is, by a native

tween fields.

Separation ; disjunflion.

I.

;

A trench cut in the ground, ufually be-

.

Di£i.

Disu'nion. n,f.

Hall's Ccntcmflationi.

DITCH. »./ [bic, Saxon

A poem

to be fung ; a fong.
Although we lay altogether afide the confidera-

A word not in ufe.

Difgrace; diminution of reputa-

Milton,

roar.

prived of the wits ; mad; diftraded.

Oi <MU on us, that elfe had fwallow'd them. Dun.
1)isvalua'tion, It./. [rtVV and valuation.]

More'i Antidote againj} Alheifin,

To

deftroy the credit of; to contradift.
Every letter he hath writ hath diffcuch'd ano-

Shaktffenre.

they are (hot with darts.

Dr}d<n'i yEfirirf.

To Dssvo'o c H. i;. a. [dis znd vouch.]

Foci to my refti and my fweet fleep'i djflurheri,
[Jit &r\A turn."]

it when

Diki'd It toils and triumphs of the war.

caufes pertarbation of mind.

/Iwo ietf enemits,

Virgil reports of diiiem, that the w!M goats est

He (hall his troops for Bghtlt.g fields preptt*>

He that injures tranquillity; Be that

«.

D I V

D I T

s

I

Aay.

Divifion of opinions.

To take away ail do)iJ)t, or any probable d'tverU
cation, the curfe is plainly fpccilied.
Broivn't J/'ulgar Errourt,

To DIVE. -v. n. [bippan, Saxon.]
1.

To fink voluntarily under water.
I

am not yet informed, whether when a diver

diveth, having his eyes open, and fwimmcth uponthe air greater or Ids.
bis back, he fees things in
Baton's f^'atural Hijicty*

Around our pole the fpiry dragon glides.
And, like a winding ftream, the bears divides,

The Icfs and greater ; wlio, by fate's decree.
Abhor to dive beneath the fouthcrn fea.
Dryden s ftrgil.

That the air in the blood-vclTels of live bodiea
outward air, I
has a communication with the
of huthink, fcems plain, from the experiments
man creatures being able to bear air of much
much lefs upon
greater denfity in diving, and of
changes be
the tops of mountains, provided the
Arhtthnot,Artnthmt,
. 1. L...j.,..iiir
raade gradually.

z.

To

D I V

t> r

tiling-

,

.

CncodUes defend thofe pearls which lie in the
them,
lakes: the poor Indians are eaten up by
Raleigh't Hifiiry.
when they di-vc for the pearl.
The knave dcferves it, when he tempu the

Di'vERSE. adj. [di'ver/us, Latin.]
1. Different from another.

Where folly fights for kings, or</f«« for gain.

To go deep into any queftion, doc-

Eloquence is a great and diverfe thing, nor did
any man fo much as to be
wholly his.
Ben yonf^r.

trine, or fcience.
ligh.

Seeking man's pow'rs, have foond his wcaknefj

In different direflions.
but in the laft fenfe.

3.

D<iv!es.

fuch.

Dryrlin.

things,

we fall prefently into darknefs and ob-

fcurity.

Loike.

But to the depths of nature never Jive,

Blackmore,

To immerge into any bufmefs or con-

Shairjftart'% Richard III.
Nor can diltinguifli.
To depart from obfervation to fink.
Dire, thoughts, down to my foul. Sbaicfjaan,

Then Brutus, Rome's nrft martyr, I mud namcj
Tfe Curtii bravely Ji-v'd the gulph of fame.
Din bam.
To Dive'll. 1/. a. [di-vil/e, Latin.] To
pull; to feparate ; to fever.
They begin to f-parate; and may be eafily diBrc-wn's I'ulg. Err.

velled or parted afunder.

One that finks voluntarily under water.

be compounded, you will not wonder that fnch
fruitful principles, or manners of diverjificatim,
fhould generate differing colours.

3.

Variation ; variegation.
Variety of forms; multiformity.

4.

Change;

Dive'rsify. -v. a. {ditjerjifier , ft.]

1.

To make different from another; to
diftinguiih ; to difcriminate.
There may be many fpecies of fpirits, as much
feparated and dtverjijitd one from another as the
fpecies of fenfible things are didinguifhed one frjm
another.

from the relation of divers and

many kinds of

Ntnvurt.

feldom appeareth what

all

receive:

what all

ftand in need of feldom lieth hid.

Hooker.

Both of them do diverjiy- -worh, as they have

medium djverjly difpofed.

their

Bacon's Natural Hijlory.
king did permit it to .'ave his
purfe, or to communicate the envy of a bufinefs

To make different from itfelf; to vary;

Whether

the

The country being di-verjijied between hills and
woods and plains, one place more clear,
another more darkfome, it is a pleafaot picture.

difpleafing to his people, wsxsdivcrjly interpreted,

Sidney
There is, in the producing of fome fpecies, a
compofition of matter, which may be much diver-

queen's favour, which was diverjly interpreted by

Bacor^.
I.eicfder bewrayed a defirc to plant him in the

fuch as thought tliat great artizan of courts to do
nothing by chance, nor much by affection.

Bacon.

fyotton.

The aft of turning &ify thing ofF from

hendeth under the names of heaven and earth, ic
by divers diverjly underftood.
Rmejgh's Hijlory,
William'* arm
Could nought avail, however fam'd in war;
Nor armies Icagu'd, that diverjly affay'd
To curb his power.
Phillipsi

Jljied.

1.

its

The univerfal matter, which Mofes compre-

courfe.

Cutting off the tops, and pulling off the huds,
work retention of the fap for a time, and dixerjion
of it to the fprouts that were not f .rward.

out of ufe.

We have d'njtrt examples in the church of fuel

Bacons Natural Hijlory.

aa, by fear, being compelled to facrilice to ftrang--

1 have ranked this diverfan of Chriftian praftice

gods, repented, and kept ftill the office of preach

among the cffedt of our contentions.

Duty of Piny.

JVhitgtfi.

2.

The caufe by which any thing is turned
from its proper courfe or tendency,
Fortunes, honour, friends.

Are mere divtrji*n\ from love's proper objeft.

Baciti'i Natural JUJIory.

were (hot into the city with arKiit/lti.

it

Dive'rsion. n./. [from divert.']

Di'vERS. adj. [di-verfus, Latin.] Several
fundry ; more than one. It is now grown

letters

The lack we all have, as well of ghodly as or
earthly favours, is in each kind ealily known;
but the gifts of God arc fo diverjly kedowcd, that

to variegate.

of any otjeft, and fall perpendicularly on any refleeing furface, Ihall afterwards drvtrge from f

D'mers

differently; vari-

dales,

Homogenral rays, which flow from feveral points

Mwt, wherein Solyman'i couQcili were revealed.

ways;

oufly.

Add'ijoni Spedator.

Latin. ]

In different

1.

Locke.

verjify bis infernal council with proper charadlers.

2.

3.

Pofe.

Di'vEt?!. >r. adv. [from diverfe.]

AddiJiiCi SpeHator.

To tend various ways from one point.

ing the gofpel.

4. Variegation.
A waving glow his bloomy beds difplay,
Blufhing in bright divcrjities of day.

was eafier for Homer to find proper feuti
mcnis for Grecian generals, than for Milton to di

IVmliui's Arehiltfture.

The teeth breed when the child is a year and n
half old : then they catl them, and new on,s come
about If ven years j but d'nitri have backward teeth
come at twenty, fome at thirty and forty.

place, we compare it with icfeif
exiding at another time, and thereon form the
ideas of identity and Jivtrfity,
Loch.

It

»

point.

Corifidering any thing as cxiding at any deter-

mined time and

world has not variety of materials
fuf&cient to furnifb out their different inclinations.

.

Divf/rgent.«<^'. [from di-vergens, Lat.]
Tending to various parts from one

Diftinft being ; not identity.

3.

ters, that the

which lie perpetually concealed in the
ff'ocdv^ard.
d*!ep, l^.reened from our figh*.
3 He that enters deep into knowledge or

di-vergo,

The diverjity of ceremonies in this kind ought
not »o caufe didenfion in churches.
Hooker.
Society cannot (ubiid without a dii'erjity of da(hould
and
if
God
grant
every
tions;
one a middle
dation, he would defeat the very fcherae of happinefs propofed in it.
Rogers^

Male fouls are diverjlfied with fo many charac

fiiell-filh

[

Arbuthnot on Aliments.

Variety.

2.

alteration.

7*0

One that goes under water in fearch of

To DIVE'RGE. v. n.

rent degrees of dtength and tcnfion.

Ha/e^t Origin 0/ Mankind.

treafure.

fludy.
He would have hina,
I conceive it, to be no
fuperficial and floating artificer j but a <//ver into
caufes, and into the myftcries of proportion.

tions arifes from the folii parts, ai to their diffe-

Tlii", which

is here called a change of will, is
not a change of his will, but a change in the objed, which fcems to make a diverjijicaiion of the
will, but indeed is the fame will diverfified,

South,

The mod common diverjiiy of human conditu-

Boyle on Coloun.

Vope'i Dunciad.

are

oppofitc; and, not reding in a bare &'fir/fry, rife

If you confiderbowvarioully feveral things may

Pcrfeverance gains the divtri prize.

£fliers for pearls, that there

Hcoker.

They cannot be divided, but they will prove

ties.

l)i'vER. jr./ [from dive.']

unlikenefs.

Then is there in this diverjity no contrariety.

The aft of changing forms or quali-

i.

Latin,]

Difference; diflimilitude ;

1.

into a contrariety.

;

To explore by diving.

di-verjltai,

Pbil/tpi.

JifyA

Hath not yet div'il into the world's deceit,
5.

part.

Diversifica'tion. n. /. [from diverI.

Freehofder.

The aft or purpofe of draw-

ing the enemy off from fome defign,

Papers Dunciad.

dition.
Sweet prince, th' untainted virtue of your years

many points.

j^ddij'n''s

4. [In war.]

Dive'rsit Y. n.f. \d'i'verjtte , French; from-

To feiae his papers. Curl, was next thy carej
His papers light fly divtrjt tod in air.

You Jhould have div'ii intu my inmoft thoughts.

It is evident,

vice and folly, furnirti u(t(u\ diver^ons to readers.

by threatening or attacking a diftant

D'rutrjt, detelling contact.

You fwim a-top, and on the furface drive

2.

yiddifcn'i Speflatar.

Such produ^ions of wit and humour as expofo

ufed

It is litde

And thirfty cucumber, whrn they perceive
Th' approaching olive, with rcfentment fly
Her fatty fibres, and with tendrils creep

Wherfoever we would proceed beyond thole
Cmple ideas, and d'nit farther into the nature of

1.

In the book of games and diverJiotiSj the reader's

mind may be fuppofcd to be relaxed.

The gourd

He performs all this out of his own fund, witharts and fcienccs for a fupply.
out tlrwig
* into the
•
'

To Dive. o/. a.

pleafure.

fhe yet ever favour

The w'ts that Jm'JtaaH deep, and foar'd mod

4.

be fomething lighter
lefs forcible than

than amitfement, and

DLferent from itfelf ; various ; multiform ; difFufed.

2.

Pofc.

3.

verfion fecms to

You for thofe ends whole days lo councirfit.
And the diver/ions of your youth forget. fVa/Ier,

Four gr-at beads came up from the fea, d'lverfe
Dan. vii. i,.
one from another.

main,

D I V

\

Dlvm friends thought it ftrange, tnit i white
dry body (hould acquire a rich cobur upon the efBoy/e on Cclmin.
fufion of fpring>water.

To go under water in fearch of any

t.

V

Which only is itfelf.
Denbam'i Sophy.
Sport; fomething that unbends the
mind by turning it off from care. Di-

2.

In

different

direftions ;

to

differentr

points.

On life's vaft ocean diverjly v»e fail
Reafon the card, but pafTion is the gale.

Pope,

To DIVE'RT. V. a. [diverto, Latin.]
turn off. from any direftlon or
I, To
courfe.
I rather will fubjeiV me to the malice
Of a divtrnd blood and bloody brother.

Shele^intrr;

Kro»«,

D I V

D I V

Knott, by the conflux of the raeetiBg fipi
InfcQ the found pine, and divtrl his grain,
Tortive and cirajit, from his courfe of growth.
Sbakfff>eart.

caufe a greater part of it is JivtrtiJ from his land-

thofc laborious and avocating duties which are here

Locke.

requifite to be performed .

They divtrtei raillery from improper objefts,
lECgave a new turn to ridicule.
Add'tjini FrecholJir.

Different ; feparate.
word not in ufe.
Twinn'd brothers of one womb,

A

1,

To

1

She drew an angel down.

NumUrs*

And naturally all fouls to his did bow

Dryd. St. Cecil.

fpeaking different languages.

As wands of divination downward draw.

And point to beds where fov' reign gold doth grow.

Locke.

To feparate; to keep apart, by (land-

2.

jiddifott on Italy.

Drydtn.

The excellency of the foul is feen by its power

ing as a partition between.

Maro's mule, not wholly bent

of divining in dreams that feveral fuch divinations have been made, none can que.lion who be:

Let there be a firmament in the midft of the
waters, and let it divide the waters from the wa-

Phillips.

ters.

lieves the holy writings.

Genres.

to exhilarate. See Diver-

2.

You muff go

An ingenious gentleman did divert or inftruft
the kingdom by his papers.
;

StviJ't.

to dettroy ; in Shakefpeare,

unlefs it belong to the firft fenfe.
frights, changes, horrours.
Divert and .crack, rend and deracinate
The unity and married calm of ftjt»s.

-3.

^/i»(rr/o,

Latin.]

to

divert.

DIVI'NE. adj. [di-vintts, Latin.]

'Shakefp. Henry IV.

1.

Between her heart and lips.
Sbakrfpeare.
Divide the prey into two parts; between them
that took the war upon them, who went nut to
battle ; and between all the con^jrcj^atiin.
Nunih.
Cham and Japhct were heads and princes over
their families, ajid had a right to divide the earth

Shakejp.

Any

a. [di-vertj/er, Fr.

by families.

To pleafe; to exhilaA word now little

Her line
Dryden.
2.

;

j.

l.nve cools, friend (hip falls off".

ufed.
X.et orators inftruQ, let them diveritfe,

Brothers divide.

and

let

them move us; this is what is properly meant by
the vmxi/all.
Dry den.

Dive'rtisement. ti. /.

A fhare ;

1

How fond fnever men arc of bad divertifemcnt,
prove mirth which ends in heavinefs.

Make a juft dividend

Grverrmint if the Tongue.

;

;

Davies,

;

and, if not all.

Milton,

Divi'ne. tt./.
1.

Divi'der. ti.f. [from divide.
any thing
1. That which parts

Claudio mull die to-morrow; let him be furnilhed with divinesy and have all charitable preparation.

into

Bacon's Moly H^ar,

pieces.
According as the body moved, the divider did
more and more enter into the divided boi!y ; fo it
joined itfelf to foa?e jicw parts of the medium, or
divided budy^ and did in like manner furfake
^'gl'y on the Soul.

A diftributor; he who deals out to each
his fhar«.

Wlio miie rae a judge or divider over you ?

Uke.

Shakefpcare,

Give Martins leave t"* proceed in his difcourfe
for h: fpokc like a divine in armour.

"]

2.

A minifler of the gofpel; a priellj a
clergyman.

[In arithmetick.] Dividfitdis the number given to be parted or divided.

others.

In

4. Prefageful ; divining ; prefcient.
Yet oft hii heart, divine of fomething ill,
Mifgavc iiim ; he the faulc'ring meafure felt.

Cocker's Arithmetick,

Then of his arms Androgeus he dive/Is;
His fword, his (hield, he takes, and plumed crerts.
Dinham.
Jxt ui diveft the gay phantom of temporal hap.
(incCs of all that faUe luftre ind ornament in

a fupreme degree.

may admit of compari-

The divine/! and the richeft mind.
Both by art's purchaf^ and by nature's dower.
That ever was from heav'n to earth confin'd.

divi-

Dryden's Fatles.
2.

I

Rogers.

iii

The griater part to Djomcde will ('all.

not fully authorized.

To DIVF/ST. V. a. [ de-ve/lir, French.
The Englilh word is therefore more
properly written deaiej}. See Deve«t.]
To ftrip to make naked to denude.

allotted

Each perfon (li.ill adapt to hlmfelf his peculiar
(hare, like o:her dividends.
Decay of Piety.
If on fucii petty merits you conler
So vaft a prize, let each his portion (hare :

A word now not much in ufe.

would not exclude the common accidents of
life, nor even things of a pleafant and divrrtive
nature, fo they arc ianocent, from couverfation.

part

in
it

fenfe

fion.

French.] Diverfion ; delight; pleafure.

Dive'rtive. <i(^'. \fromdi'uert.'\ Recreative ; amufive ; exhilarating.
A word

the

Excellent
this

fon.

Shaktfpcare's King Lear.

Di'viDEND. »,/. [from divide."]

{di-vertijjimcnt,

not natural;

The benefit of nature's light is not thought excluded as unneccffary, bccaufe the neceflity of a
divive light is magnified.
Hooker,
Inllrufled, you'd explore
Divine contrivance, and a God adore.
Blackmore.

Lccke.

To part to funder.
To break friendlhip.

1.

Proceeding from Godj
not human.

To Divi'de. 'V. n.
2.

Partaking of the nature of God.

Was hero-make, half human, hM divine.

;

tfalion.
.

Luke.

;

Angling was, after tedious ftudy, a reft to his
mind, a cheerer of his fpirrts, and a divetter of
fadnefs.

And I will take it as a fweet difgrace.

To difunite by difcord.

There (hall five in One houfe be diviJcd.
to give in fhares.
4. To deal out

thing that diverts or alleviates.'

To DIVERTI'SE. f

Drydcn,

Then in the midll a tearing groan did break
The name of Anthony it was divided

Dive'rter. n. f. [from the verb.]

Add:jtn,

Conjeftural prefage or prediftion.
Tell thou thy earl his divination lies,

Where feas, and winds, and defarts will divide yru.

sion.

To fubvert

is

His countenance did innprint an awe,

They were divided into little independent focic'.
ties,

Hsokir.

no enchantment againff Jacob,
neither is there, any d'tviniitivn againft Ifra;!.
Surely thine

fCingi.

He rais'd a mortal to the ikies.

I

On what is gainful, fometimes Ihe divert!

it will

Certain tokens they noted in birds, or in the
entrails of beads, or by other the like frivolius
divinations.

Let old Timotheus yield the prize,
Or both divide the crown ;

tfic^ions tainted by any fenfuality, and di'.-rrted
from the love of him who is to be the only com-

rate ;

different

Divide the living child into two, and give half

Milton's Ptiradife Regained.

;

into

to the one, and half to the other.

They avoid pleafure, left they diould have their

5.

whole

pieces.

Alas, how firaple, to thefe catcs compar'd,

4. To pleafe

one

part

Di'vination is a prediftion or foretelling

of future things, which are of a fecret
and hidden nature, and cannot be
known by any human means.
Ayliffe's Parerten.

To DIVIDE, v. a. [di-vido, Latin.]

To withdraw the mind.

From folid coonfcl.

1.

Scarce is dividant, touch with feveral fortunes.

power had
been employed ; but ftill there arcfe fundry occafions, which divided and diverted their power fome
other way.
Davits in Irdand',

fort,

Divina'tjon. n./. [div.'natio, Latin.]

Whofc procreation, rcfidence, and birth

lute conqueft of Ireland, if their whole

Was that crude apple that diverted £\ e

She (hines,
Rcvolv'd on heav'n'a gr.;at axle, and her reign
With thoufand leffer lights dividual holds,
With thoufand thoufanJ ftars
Miitm.

Shakefpectrt,

The kings of England would have had an ahfo-

.3.

mon with others.

Shakefpcare.

Newtcn.

To draw forces to a different part.

Stiifi,

A particular kind of compaffes.

Beyle's Seraphitk Love.

Divi'dant. adj. [from di'vide.]

more and

more difficultly divtrted.

divided people.

4.

;

courfe; and the reft, as they are bigijor and big.
ger, make the Itronger and more lucid colours,

2.

by a ftrange revolution, been the great unitcr of a

in ufe.
Hi>w could communities maintain
Peaceful commerce from dividahle fliores ?

tafily divtrted by rcfrafting furfaccs from the right

blue, green, yellow, and red, and be

A dtfuniter; the perfon or caufe tb«t
breaks concord.
Money, the great divider of the world, hatli,

Divi'dable. cuij. [from divide.^ Sepa- Divi'dual. tidj. [dii/idnus, Latin.] Divided; fhared or participated in comrate
different ; parted.
A word not

Nothing more is requifite for producing all the
variety of colours, and degrees of refrangibility,
than tliat the rays of light be bodies of different
fizes ; the leaft of which may make violet, the
weakeft and darkeft of the colours, and be more

3.

men have dreflcd it up.
Rogers,
Dive'sture. n.f. [from di-ve/l.] The att
of putting up.
The dive/lure of mortality difpenfes them from

He findalno reafon to have hi« rent abated, belord.

D I V

wh^ch the pride, the paffions, and the folly of

A divine has nothing to Ciy to the wifcll congrcgation, which he

may not exorefs in a mahncr

to be underffood by the meanclt among them.

Svi/i.
2.

A man Ikilled in divinity; a theologian.
Th' eternal caafe in their immortal lines

Was taught, and poets were the firli d'tvincs.
Denhani.

To

-

D I V

D I V
To

?e Divi'ne. -y. a. [di'vino, Latin.]

foretel; to foreknow; to prefage.
Why doft thou fay king Richard is jcpos'd »
Dar'ft thou, thou little beC'.er thing than earth,
Shakijfearc.
T)':vine his downfal

I .

Divi'nity.

To utter prognoftication.
Then is Csefar and he knit tngether.— If 1
were to diiht of this unity, I would not prophefy

To feel prefages.
If fecret powers
Suggeft but troth to my di-vnthg thought?,

This pretty lad will prove our country's

To conjefture

to gtjefs.
The beft 01' commentators can but gucfs at his
meaning; none can be certain he has Jivina!
Dryd. Juvmal, DedUaUon.
rightly.
He took it with a bow, and foon divin'd
The feeming toy was not for nought defign'd.
Drjdin,
In change of tomnent would be eafe:
Could you d'rvine what lovers bear,
E\en you, Prometheus, would confefs
Cranvillt.
There is no vulture like acfpair.

With ravilhing divifion, to her lute.

Sung by a fair queen in a fummer's bower.

Siiinv.gjteet.

Shakejptare's Henry IV.

Our tongue will run divijlcns in a tune, not
when our thoughts are to-

[In arithmetick.]
The feparation or
parting of any number or quantity
given, into any parts affigned.
Cocker.
10. Subdivifion; diftinftion of the general into fpecies.

Abound
In the diiijion of each feveral crime.
Ailing it many ways.
Sbakcjteare's Mactetb,

Divi'soR.

Truft not my age.

My reverence, calling, nor divinity.
If this fweet lady lie not guiltlefs here

Under fome biting errour.
^hakcfpeari.
Among hard words I number thofe which are
peculiar to divinity, as it is a fcience.
SiL-iftt

Something fupernatural.
They fay there \, divinity in odd number.*:,
either in nativity, chance, or death. Shakefteare.

divinely brave !

matter,

we conceive nothing

and bulk, which is

The quality

nizance

;

abfurdities

will prefs the
Ghnville's Sceffn,

Sbckefpeare's Hcmy VIII.

He had in his eye tlic divorce which had paOcd
betwixt the emperor and Scribonia.
Dryden's Dedication to ite ^neid,
2.

1.

One that profeffes divination, or the
art of revealing occult things by fuper-

natural means.
This drudge of the devil, thu diviner, laid claim
to me, called me Dronio, and fworc 1 was affured
10 her; told rae what privy marks 1 had abiut

of mind, and divorce of alfeilions, in her, from my

l.oike.

nic.

Expelled hit eracles, and common ten.plet o!
dcialion, the devil runs into corners, exercifin^

Brvuia't yklg<tr Emuri.

2.

n.

f.

[from

di'i'inei'.]

A

propbetefs ; a woman profeffing divination.

The mad divifterefs h«d pl.iinly writ,

A time (bsuld come, but many ages yet.

4.

The part which is feparated from the
If we lock into

Make of your prayers one fwect facrifice.
And liferay foul to heav'n. Shake/f. Henry VIII.
To Divo'rce. 1/. a. [from the noun.]
1, To feparatc a hulband or wife from the
other.

communities and divjji-ins of

men, we oblervc that the difcrect man, not the
witty, guides the converfation.
Addifin's S/rA
5.

The caufe of any penal feparation.
Go with me, like good angels, to my end f
And, as the long divorce of fteel falls on me.

reft by dividing.

thought on,

Divi'neress.

2 Efdr. vi. 41.

That by which any thing is kept apart
partition.

4.

Conjefturer ; gueffer.
If he bimklf be conl'cious of nothing he ihtn
he muft be a notable dimr.er ot
thoughU, that can affuse him that he was thi: king.
Luke.

The ftate of being divided.
divijicn betwixt the waters.

3.

The fentence by which a marriage is
diflblved.

Ihou madeft the fpirit of the firmament, and
commanded it to part afundcr, and to make a

meaner trumperies, and a^ing his deceits in
witches, magici^s, divinert, and fuch inferior
ieducers.

3.

parts.

Shakrjpeares Comedy of Errouri-

Charles.

to be born
out of lawful wedlock, are convertible the one
witli the other; and 'tis hard to make divorce between thofe things that are fo near in nature to
each other, as being convertible terms.
/lyliffe's Parergon^

Divifibility.
Natonlifts difagree about the origin of motio'i,
and the indefinite divifihhnefs of matter.
-BoyU.

2.

K.

Thefc things, to be a baftard, and

DiVl'siBLENESS. ti. /. [from divijibk.]

Divi'sioN. n.f. [di-vijio, Latin.]
1. The ad of diriding
any thing into

Separation; difunion.
Such motions may occafion a farther alienation
religion.

I

Divi'ner. n. /. [from To di-vine.]

proof

That like a jewel has hung twenty years
About his neck, yet never toll her luflre.

his thoughts loofe in the vaft expansion of fpace,

or dh'ijibituy of matter.

fufficient

Ayhffe's Parergon,

To reftore the king.
He counfels a divorce, a lofs of her.

elfe

This will eafily appear to any one, who will let

of this book from that which is humane ? Griiu.

j*n earthly paragon : behold dh'wtite/i
No elder than a boy.
Siakrff' fore's Cymhetine,

had of the caufe, and

made thereof.

n. /. [di-vifibitite, Fr.]
of admitting divifion or

The moft palpable

Is it then impolTiblc to diftiogu'fh the drvinenejt

and

legal feparation of hufband

Divorce is a lawful feparation of huAand and
wife, made before a competent judge, on due cog-

Bet:tley's .Sermons.

afferters of infinite divifHlity,

from

wife.

feparation of parts.

Divinity ; participation of the divine
nature.

Excellence in the fupreme degree.
By Jupiter, an angel or, if not,

The

1.

DivisiBi'Llxy.

Divi'neness. n. J. [from di'vint.'\

;

diiiortium, Latin.]

but extenfion
impenetrable, or d'ltiifihh and

P'^ivc.

The

Latin.]

divided into.

difcerptible ; feparable.
When we frame in our minds any nation of

In a manner noting a deity.
His golden bomi appear'd,

[di'vi/or,

DIVOHCE. n./. [diiitvce, French

Latin. ]

Capable of being divided into parts

71./.

number given, by which the dividend
is divided ; the number which Iheweth
how many parts the dividend is to be

Hbakejfeare.

DIVrSIBLE. adj. [ di-ui/ihtlis.

between my people and thy
Exodus.

9.

Chcyne.

Hear him but reafon in divinity.
And, all admiring, with an inward willi
You would defirc the king were made a prelate.

Injur'd he fell, and dying he forgave;
Cracb^s jfttvetiaK
Too noble for revenge.

That on the forehead /hone divintiy bright,
And o'er the banks diffus'd a yellow Wfht. Mdif.

I will put a div'Jion

The icience of divine things; theology.

6.

Gtanville,

8. Diftinftion.
people.

ployingthefe fubfervient divir.iiia.

Bemley.

The Grecians znoft divintty have given to the
a^ive perfefti'-.n of men, a name exprciTing both
Jiccker,
beauty and goodncfs.
She fair, dmittely fair! fi: love for gods. Afz/rcn.

tally engaged elfewhcre.

Mdijon.

Gcd doubllefs can govern this machine he could
create, by more direft and eafy methods than em-

fitly

2. Excellently; in the fupreme degree.

mifiing a note, eien

Celeftial being.

4.

Loike.

2.

r^tion.

Tn Ifrael's lands had fix'd their dire abodes,
Beadly divinities, and droves of gods.
Pritr.

and dnhrly made
ufe o> by our apollle, in his conference with phiioCofbtn, and the inquifitive people of Athens.

1.

Makes Welfli as fweet as ditties highly penn'd.

Falfe god.
Vain idols, deities that ne'er before

3.

Faith, as we ufe the word, called commonly divine faith, has to d> with no propofitions but
thofe which are fuppoj'ed to be d'rvintly infpired.

3.

Thy tongue

Milton.

When he attributes druinity to other things
than God, it is only a divinity by way of partici-

And intimates eternity to man.

5.

Divi'nei.v. ad-v. [from di-vine,"]
1. By the agency or influence of God.

!

Space between the notes of mufick, or
parts of a mufical compofure ; juft time.

7.

'T)5 the Divinity .hat ftirs within u?,
'Tis Hciv'n itfelf that points out an hereafter.

.

Exalted Socrates

Loeke,
Exprefs the heads of your divijons in as few
and clear words as you can, otherwifc I never can
be able to retain tiiem.
Stvift.

the Caufe of caufes.

blifs.

;

This topick was very

verfity of matter.

God; the Deity ; the Supreme Being;

2.

Shakfjfeari.

3.

ed, the beil I could, to govern myfeif by the di-

from divinitas, Latin.]
Participation of the nature and excellence of God ; deity ; gtxlhead.
Drvimty within them breeding wings,
Wherewith to fcorn the earth.

Shakcfpcare.

is di/lri-

In the divijlons I have made, I have endeavour-

French;

[di<vtniie,

/.

As with new wine intoxicated both.
They fwim in mirth, and fancy that they feci

The prophets thereof (/ifiM for money.
M<V. iii.ii.
s.

».

which a difcourfe

buted.

Drydi-ti,

1.

fj.

6. Parts into

A dame fliould drown with all her feather'd train.

.'

To Divi'ne. -u. ».

D I V

In which finifter deftinies crdair,

Difunion; difcord ; difference.
There was a divifiin among the people, becaufe
of him.
^oA», vli. 43.
As to ottf d'pvijscns with the Romanifts, were

To' force afunder ; to feparate by vio-

2.

lence.

Were it confonant unto reafon to divorce thefe
two fentenccs, the former of which doth /hew how
the latter is reftrained, and, not marking the for.
mer, to conclude by the latter of them.' Hooker.

our . rfferences the projuft of heat, they would,
like fmall clefts in the ground, want but a cool

The continent and the ifland were continued
together, within men's remembrance, by a drawbridge; but arc now divorced by the downfallen

fealbo to cement them.

cliDs*

Decay of Piety.

Caretv's Hurvey of Cornivall*

So

?

.

Or

.

tfalltr.

Drydin'i JEneid.

To take away

Jloikcr.
;

I djxe not make

Do a fair mcfl'age to his kingly cars'

To d» yon falutation from his mader.

feparation of marriage.

the violent eftranger of ac(]naintaace,

I think
fo

Dhircici! are dccoflions, emulfions, and oils
of emoU ent vegetables, that relax the urinary
palfages : fuch as relax ought to be tried before
Thofe emollients
fuch as force and ftimulare.
ought to be taken in o^cn air, to hinder them from
yirbulbnot.
(loniachs.
ptrfpiring, and on empty
Gracfful as John, ihc moderates the rein!.
Toung.
And whiftles fwect her diuretUk drains.

DIITRNAL. adj. [a'iunius, Latin.]

Brirtvn'i P^uigar Erroun.

nieicr.

Think, ere this diurnal ftar

Di'zzA rd. n.f. [from dixKy."]

Dio'rnal. n./. [diurnal, Fr.]

ccmmunlcaie them to the publick.

Tetlv

;

I will pluck the veil of modcfty

Ihoke.

from the (a

to efFefl by influence.
It is much that a jed with a fad brow will d>
with a fellow that never had the ache in his
Ihoulders.
Shakejpcjre'i IIrnry]V.
His queen, notwithdandiiig (he h^d prcftntej
with
divers
children,
and with a crown alio,
him
though he would not acknowledge it, could do nothing with him.
Bacan,

[from the adjeftivc.]
to make giddy.

12.

;

To make any thing wh.-it it is not.

To divide him inventorially, would diaxy the

And whild we breathe take him to do him dead.

arithmetick of memory.

;

dtjen, Dutch.]
1.

To praitife or aft any thing good or
bad.

Thou hid dent evil above all that were bef ire
thee.

J K'.rg!.

Flee evil, and </;) good.

2.

To perform

;

head;
Sbakijf.arc.

Shaktjprari.

Thou dc/l, he doth or does

preter. did ; part. paff. done, [bon. Sax.

To publifli ; to make publick; to re-

Jivutgtd.

Koive.

To gain

11

Od' with the crown, and w^th the crown his

veal to the world.

Men arc better contented to have their commendations fupprcCcd, than the contrary much

Biyle.

What had I to i& » ith kings and courts ?
My humble lot had cad me far beneath them.

In his ddcent, than fliall my prompted fword
Falling on Diomede.
Sbni. Triclus and Crejjida.

" To DIVU'LGE. -v. a. [divulgo, Lat.]
1.

nature.

(Which (hipmen do the hurricano call.
Shall dixxy with more clamour Neptune's ear

To DO. v. a.

Bromn'i Vulgar Erroun.

I have been detcired by an indilpofition from,
having much to do with deams of fo dangerous a

Not the dreadful fpout,

Suth a coming, as it might be faid that that
geieration (hould not plfs til! it was fulfilled, tliry
needed n^ fuppoft of fuch diutyrniiy.
•

dealing ; to have bufinefs ; to deal.

Milton.

Diutu'rkity. »./. [diuiurniias, Lat.]
Length of duration.

2 Tim. iv. 9.

Longer than thou can'fl feed them on thy cod i

To whirl round;

to put forth.

;

To manage byway of intercourfe or

10.

Or at thy heels the dizxy multitude,

.

To exert

Do thy. diligence to come fhortly unto me.

Shahfpeare'i King Lear,
thoughtlefj.
What followers, what retinue canit than gain ?

a,

Altcihsry,

fclf.

9.

Giddy ;

A jouf-

nal ; a day-book.
Diu'rnallv. adv. [from diurnal.'^ Daily ; every day.
As we make tie enquiries, we fliall diurnally

know what God will do for me. Sam. xxii. 3.
Adts of mercy done to the poor, (hall be accepted and rewarded as done to our Saviour him-

Glanville.

Di'zzv. "v,

Jer. v. %i.

1

How fearful

7*0

commonly in the form of a

anotlier.

And dixxy 'tis to caft one's eyes (o low

Milton.

Lccte.

Giddi-

Caufing giddinefs.

3.

Swift.

to praflife as the

What will yc do in the end thereof?

Gid J^ ; vertiginous ; having in the
head the fenfation of turning round.

The prime orb,

;

To perform for the benefit or hurt of

8.

All on a fuddcn mifcrablc pain
Surpris'd thee, dim thine eyes, and dixxy fwam
In darknefs.
Mi/ton's Paradifc Loft.

The diurnal and annual rcvoli.t'in of the fun
have been, from the beginning of nature, conl^unt,
regular, and univerfallyobfcrvable by all mankind.

To have recourfe to
laft effort :

Dl'ZZY. adj. [bip, bip5, Saxon]

Z.

(he hath neither

pafiionate interrogation.

Z)/V?.

founder heads.

1

fcnfe nor tadc, if' (he dares to rctulc jou.

7.

nefs ; whirl in the head.
Fixed ferioufnefs beats the brain in fometodiftraftion, and caufeth an aching and dixxinefs in

Prior.

'

Ro".ve.

You do her too much horour

A block-

head ; a fool.
Di'y.ziNESs. n.f. [from dizzy.']

3. Performed in a day ; daily ; quotidian.

l)iurna!.

Sbak^ffeare,
If there be any good th'rg to be dene.

That may to tlice do eafe, and grace to me.
Speak to me.
Sbakejpeare' t Uamlel.
'Tis true, I did fo; nor was it in vain:
She did me right, and fatisfied my vengeance.

Sioift.

Milton.

Incredible how fwift, had thither rowl'd

The

For fure I had dizen'd you out like a queen.

I .

Why docs he order the diurnal hours
To leave eairth's other part, and rife in ours *

If he did not care whether he hid their love or
no, he waved indifferently 'twixt doing them neither good nor harm.
Sbake/peare'i Corielanui.
Thou had, Sebadian, done good feature (hame.

letters could tend

[This word feems corrupted from dighi.] To drefs ; to deck j
to rig out.
A low word.
Your lady/hip lifts up the falh to be fcen

Conftituting the day.

fl.

not any thing in my

much to my reproach, as the odious divulging

To Di'zEN. -v. a.

Leave cold the night, how we his gather'd beams
Rrfleiacd, may with matter fsre foment.

To produce any effeft to another.

aft of plucking away.
Ariftotle, in his Ethicks, takes up the conceit
of the beaver, and the divulficn of his tefticlcs.
Brian's Vulgar Erroun.

We obfcrve in a day, which is a (hort year, the
grcatct heat about two in the afternoon, when
the lun is pad the meridian, which is the diurnal
folitice, and the fame is evident from the thcrmo-

jifli, xxvi. zt.

King Cborlet.

Relating to the day.

1.

The thing was not dost in a corner.
6.

Divu'lsion. h. /. [di-vulfio, Lat.]

Having

the power to provoke urine.

To tranfift.

publick

to

of them did to the infamy of the divulgers.

the eternal divorcer of marriage.
Drummfind^s Cypr, Crnve.

Diure'tick. adj. [Jiaj^TiK^.]

expofcs

view.

The

perfon or caufe which produces divorce
or feparation.

Nothing but death can dp m; to rcfpirc. Fairy S^.
J.

A

one that

Batcti,

This ftrudture is obfolete.

Nought can quench mine inly flaming fice.
Nor lea of liquor cold, nor lake of mire,

To all his angels, who with true applaufe

lilher;

To caufe.

A fatal plague which many did to dye. SpenJ.-r,

Miilon's Paradije Loft.
Recount his praifes.
pubDivo'lcer. «./. [from di'vulge.]

Write her a bill of dhiorceir.irt, and give it in
her hand, and fend her out of his houfe.
Deul. xxiv. I.

Bivo'rcer. h. /. [from tli'viirct.'\

they might do their confciences.

4.

This is true glory and renvwn, when God,
Looking on th' earth, with approbation marks
The jull man, utdjivulget him through lieav'n

Biaiimsrc,

Death is

The jury prayed of the fcnatc a guard, that

aa.

nothing but death
Shall eVr/iwerrt my dignities. Soji. JlenryVlll.
Atrial pafture the lungs with gentle force
Conilaat embrace by turns, by turns divorte,

Divorce ;

Sbake/feare't 'juliui Ctr/ar.

Pope,

To proclaim ; to declare by a publick

2.

Your mailer wed me toi

Divo'rcemr-nt. ». / [from tiivorcc.']

Sbairfp,::rc's Triolus and CreffiJt,

I'indaru^ is come

and divulge to all mankind the moR. it-

cret fentiments ot friendlhip.

To give up wiiiiiigly that noble title

Mayo.ne, that is a heralJ and a prince,

fentiments, of the privilege of every human creaPope.
ture, to di'vulgi or conceal them.
The cabinets of the fick, and the clofets of
the dead, have been ranfacked to publirt) private
letters,

to put away.

myUlf fo guilty.

To execute; to difcharge.

3.

You are deprived of the right over your own

If fo be it wfre poflible, that all other omaineuts of mind might b« had in their full perlectSon, ncvtrthelffs the mind that (hould poffefs
them, d'taoreci from piety, could be but a fpeOacle

of commiferatton.

and froA'n, and do all the intclle£iual podurcs of
the countenance ?
Collitr,

The king himlelf (/ivb/^V, the land believ'd.

I vrouM iivtici me from thy mither'j tomb,
Sepulch'ring on jJuttrefs.
Sbaiffp. King Lear.

4.

To live and die is all we have to rfr.
Dent,:m.
What is the teafnn a man's arm won't fmile

SbakeJieari'i Merry tfivei offVindJor.
Thefe anfwers, in the filcnt night receiv'd,

If thou weit not glad,

,

Learn to live well, that thoo miyft die fo to«|

feemTng mlftrefs Page, and divulge Pagt hlinfdf
for a fecure and wilful Afteon.

youthful foul not ejs'ly fore'i,
fo fwcet a feat (/worcV.

Tu R-;,ajiic from another.

3.

DO

D O

D1 V

Pj'alms.

13.

To finilh; to end.
At for this mercy.

Which he intends for Lear and for Cordelia,
The battle done, and they within our power.
Shall never fee his pardon.
Shakefpian.
Go to the reading of fome part of the New
Tedament, not carclefsly, or in hade, as if you

had a mind

to have done', but attentively, as to
be able to give fomc account of what you have

read.

to achieve.

Dupfa.

Gigantick hinds, as foon as work was dt,nc.

They help, who hurt fo fmall j

And he hath nothing dene, that dtib not atl.
Daniil.

To their huge pots of bailing puife would run.
Dryd'r..

14.

T.

D O
14. To conclude

;

DOC

to fettle.

Tlicy did their work and din'd.

Prior.

When all is dmc, there is no man can ferve his

;

— Loofe me —

^

To put.
,

9.

Uahjttart.
Shahfitare's Hcr.ry VI.

The phrafe, 'what to do ijuith, fignifies
how to beflow what ufe to make of;
what courfe to take how to employ
which way to get rid of.

16.

lo Do

_

would not know
•wlal todo-wUb themfcJTes, or how
to enjoy themfclvcs for one hour.

To aft or behave in any manner well or

Timt/e.

This

only in the compound preterite.
You may ramble a whole day, and everv
momcntdilcoverfomething new; but when vou have
^
.
ceale to be concerned with

to care about ;

Sj„cljfcr.

praftice : only in the

1.

No men would make ufe of difunited parties to
di.lroy one body, unlefs they were
fure to mafter
them when they had diat luhi them.
SilUmgficii
1 have dent -with Chaucer, when I
have anlwerei
feme objeftions.
hearing, and undcrftanding

firft

terms.

;

docihle.

Teachable ;

Ittas

,17.

Vou would do well to prefer a bill
tfil^t'^x
kmjs and parliament lince the conqueft
and if
thJt wont J/i, chalieogc tlie crown. %
'

thmk himfelf fate, unlef, you be his »oud

and guide him.

'

"

;

tliat

tome mt.

wild, feveral of them being ufeJ in
medicin-j and
the fort called the oriental burdock,
the true rhubarb.

mgel.

_

jj^

jj,

vefr::js;e-ctihei^:;^"^r

rf^r fo, prevents too vigorous
arteries.

a motion thro^sh ,hc
^
- , "
,

Don a word of vehement command
:

a., help m,, do

;

after

mSe

""" eruvv.

but knorv
Jwif,'.

doling.

l h.-

fimpleft perlbn,

that can but
apprehend

and fjicak fenfe, is as much
judge
greatey.„Hnthefchoo,.

ofTaT th!
liJy':/lZ
To Do CTOR. .V. a. [from the
noun.] To
phyfick
to
;

cure ; to treat with
medi-

A low word.

Do'crORAL.fl,-)-. idoaoralis,hi.t.-\
Relat
•ng to the degree of a

mannerofadodtor.

^

dodor.

[ from ^»^„ra/. 1
-•

Tlie phyficians reforted
to

The tail of a great rhinoceros is not wi-ll dcfcnbcd by Rontiui. Thedoct is about
half an inch
thick, and two inches broad, ^kr an apnth
carv's

Cr..-,,; M.f^um.

UocK. n.f. [as fome imagine, of iuyy<',.'\

A place where water is let in or out at

plcafure, where Ihips are built or laid

^"^'^^

Any able or learned man.

cines.

:

The folid part of the tail.

2.

fpatula.
•

""' 'S''™ **"

;

4-

The ftump of the tail, which remains Do'oTORALLv. .7^T,.

1.
tiling io

'^'tt"

MiUe

Than yon tall docJi that rifes to thy nofe

fCVrr"""''

religion

be

Nothing teems

.

Cut down the </,.*, 'twill fprout again

Thus painters Cupids paint, thus

"Xake all thing, which r.lax rh. vein,;

.

rr>

But hateful dvh, rough thirties, k.-ckfie»,
hurs
Lolmg both b, auty and utility.
Sh^i. Henry V.
My love for gentle Uermot farter grows

//
/
''

the world deferve
our ft/j^'';
flady and confide,at,o„,thofe
principles of

f^id

is

will

p^ets J,
A naked god, blind, young, with arrows
too.

Vol. I,

"^

[bocca, Saxon.] A plant ; a
weed.
The fpecies arc feienteen, ten of which

:

/ / do not, go aiuaj

hajt€, do.

He

that can cure by recreation,
and mak^'puT'
fure rte vehicle of health,
i. .doctor at
it in

UocK. »./,

7. To Do is ufcd for any verb, to fave
the
repetition of the word
as, I Jiall com,,

or earncft requell

^

Siiift.

.

fancies.

grow

No niM<. who hath to do with the kinc,

Ifany

,

lord.

Children will not take thofe
medicines
d^a^. hand, which th.y will f.om from the
a nu"b o^
Co^vernme.t of,he
?"-' ,1.
Tongue.
,.
To pothecaries ,let the
learnd preliribe.
i. ha: men may
die without a double
bribe •
Let them, but under their
'
fuperiors
When doaor, firft have fagn'd the kill
bloody'biU.

in dcfuts

To deal with.

tul

.

-nay

As Ihe is troubled with thick coming

tea-

What IS more admirable than the firnefs of very
creature fonife ? the Joci.'ity of an
elephant, and
the inbiiencyof a camel for travelling
>

;

'"'<:

prolonE'd, vet death
Wm feue the doBor toi. be W.*,/^V.
Cvtt^,^
J"""'"^How does your patient, dcffor J
—Not fick, my
fo

to fulfil a purpofe.
Come, -tisno matter; we iha.J do
«iithout him.

To fucceed

Aphyfician; one who
undertakes the

,.,?,>','"=''''='"=

kill. />Wor.

;

doaor beft^'"*"""
r,„ j

reft.

cure of difeafes.

and tractable, are verv

good worfliip

better that it pleafes your

Each prcfelyte would vote hi,

With abfolute exclufion to the

whaever they

Lat.] Aptnefs to be taught

council, a Pha

doBor of laws,

^flr'v J'
A man flcilled in any profeffiom
^^"
'"^''<'

dinefs to learn.

to be with regard to ficknefs

in
teach it.

th'ir pride.
Ca^iift?
r"^'"''''"'^'"'''?'""
Cafu.fts,hke
cocks, ftruck out each
other's eyes.

3.
to

as to be qualified to

rifee, named C,maliel,a

2.

trada-

All the pcrfcftion they allowed
his under/land,
ing was aptnefs and doiHiiy, and
all that they attributed to his will wa» a poiiibiliiy
to be virtuous.

-— ^The

]

^

eafily inllruaed ;

It

of me.
And begg d the ring. Sb.ie/p.
Merchan, of knice.
Then ftood there up one in the

Doci'litv. n.f. [donlitJ, Ft. from dcci-

Gjod woman, how J^JI th->u ?

6.

from

Soon docile to the fccret ails of ill.

or health.

5.

[

With to before the thing taoght.

'

To fare

/.

With fmiles I could betray, with temper

i

Having d<miv!:th fuch amufements,
we give up
what we cannot difown.
p^.^
4.

Who did re.ufe three thoufand ducats

mod docMe
M:h.n.

arc taught, and, being docile

2.

m
immeans a man fo well verfed

entertainment of their tendered and
'

Dogs foon grow accuftomed

th-ir
r

iick.

his faculty

ble.

We have not yet dent -wUb aCenting to Drydm.
propofil
at

degree
law, or phyIn fame univerfities
they have
dodors of mufick.
its original
in the faculties of divinity,

port.

n.

^''^'

One that has taken the highell

I.

Tiie afinine feaft of fow-thiftles
and brambles
IS commonly fet
before them, as all the food and

DO CILE. adj. [docilit, Latin.]

compound prete-

rite.

tior.3

writing.

DOCTOR. „./. [doaor, Latin.]

in general.

from notice or

to defirt

n /.
A direaion tied upon
goods ; a fummary pf a
larger

Teachablenefs j docility j readinefs
to
learn.
I might enlarge in
commrndation of the noble
hound, as alfo of the doabUcj, of dogs

to ceale

;

To lay the fhip in a dock.

Die ; docile ; ealy to be
Mught."

DociBLENEls.

,

I

4.

to cut off an

;

/ do Do'cKET.

Shairfftari', Othdh.

r^^i''

you will have but a confufed notion
of the

P'^'-

To cut oiF a reckoning

ToDoAT.'v. n. SeeToDoTE.
^0;CiBLIi. "'(/. [doalis, Lat.] Trafta-

is

</=«,

as,

him,

5.°'""""*^ by way of oppofition : as,
'V
/did love him, iutjlorn him no-iu.

-.

they fear not the Lord, neither do they
after the
law and commandment which the
Lord commanded the children of Jacob.
^ Kru.
A« every prince ftould govern as he would deiire
to be governed, fo every fubjcft
ought to obey as
be would defire to be obeyed, according
to the
maxim of doing as we would be done by.

To make an end; to conclude.

Pope.

Sometimes emphatically ;

Chaos is come again.
'

si>ife, iJJI^^^

3.

Dryden't JEmid.

.

Perdition catch my foul
„
But
I do love thee ; and when I
love thee not.

ill.

Unto this day they </. afterthe former manners

.

,

hate him, hut nuill not luroiig

10.

TMoifon.

To Do. -v. n.

One or two ftood conflant centry,
who docked ^\\
favours handed down
and fpread a huge intifib
;
i
ne between the prince and
fubjeft, through wiii.h
nothing of value could pafs.

virtue </«j excite.

Expletives their feeble aid do join.

thai if It were not for Gad, they

men of
^, ,.,
Addipn.

To cut off a tail.
To cut any thing (hort.

1.

2.

Bacon s H'Jy IVar.

„

.

1 bis juft reproach their

and

To Dock. V. a. [from dock,
a tail. 1

IS

they deny the reft.

._, .

Men are many times brought to that extremity,

2.

Drydcn's Kmg /Irth.

religion

%.W?.

for all land and naval

preparations.
'

put before verts fometinies
^/P.'";vely
as, / do love, or / love;
1 did lo-ve, or / lo-ued.
The Turks do acknowledge God the
Father,

;

dock, for their gallies

war, as well as work-houfes

creator of heaven and earth,
being the Hrft Perfon
in the Trmity, though

;

1

T-'ylcr'sliulcofHoIyLnhr.
I will free theo.

:

Aubrey Vere

Was dtnt to death.

to what </.c* they pleafe.
1 here are

—Do, and I'll be thy Dave.

Why, Warwick, who fliould do the duke to

"^^.
The lord

The boatfwim and mariner may bring

yet do not die impatiently.

own intereft better than by ferring God.
1$.

DOC

Ifthou had loft thy land, rf,f ot alfo loie
thy
conftancy and if tlicu mult die a
little fooner,

pulfe. and conf.der of hi,
difeafe

him to touch
doBoraU, a

Do cTORSHiP. v.f [from doaor.]
•

rank of a doftor.

In
"
his

their

The

From, a kholar he became
a fellow, and then
he nrefidcnt
o. the colleje. after
he

hid received

up.
'

"^

_,

Clarendon.

4 V,

Doctri'nal.

"

J)OCT*.\'kai. eJJ. [deffriiia, LM\a.]
or fomeihing fori. Containing doArine,
mally uught.
'ITic Mtfle iMtorally iftbfJs u" the titftrirul proSt*.*i.
fo£it>on, which liiall be cur fabjetV.

PertaiaLng to tivc aft or means of teach-

2.

• The peafants were eajoin'i

To this end tl.e woiJ oC Cod no otbtrwifc fer•^tb, than only in the sawrt ot' a dtdri/ial ioftruHoeitr.
nicnf.

Wbit fpecial ptopetty or quality is that, which,
b'-Vng DO where found but in Icrraons, maketh them
eifi.ftu;il to fave fouU, and leavcth all other tUfiri-

njl meaaa btfido dcfticiiteo^vital efficacy ? Hukrr.

Something that

[^o/hKd,

Dode'c*cO!i. n. /.

and 7»»;<«.]

The twelfth part.

from dog ;

[probably corrupted
to ftiift, and play fly tricks,

fliifts.

2.

or mailer ; that which is taught.
To make new articles of faith and dotlr'ntf, no
man thinkalh it lawful : new laws of government,
what church or cimmorwcalth is there which
maketh not, eiehn- ar one time or other ? Huier.
Yc are the fons of clergy, who bring all their

3.

Mart, iv. 2.
Do'cuMEN.T. n. /. [Jocume/itum, Latin.]
». Precept; inftruAion ; dircftion.

He faid unto them in his diffr'we.

,

;

Sl'akeJJuare''i

Witli Ger great mafter fo to fympathiae.
That judge is hot, and difft his gown.

Drydm^s yuverai.

You know my paliion for Martha, and wltat a
flie dodged with mc above
Adiif'm.

The chaffering with difl'entcrs, and dodging about
t'other ceremony, is but like opening a
few wickets, and leaving them a-jar ; by which no
Stuiji.
more than one can get in at a time.
is low and
4. The word in all its fenfes

To ftrip

Crafhavit

A dolt-

Your eye in Scotland

Would create fold.crs, and make women fight.

To rfs^ their dire diltrclfcs.

To Ihift off; to delay

4.

kin or little doit ; a contemptuous name
for a low coin.
I

To put away ; to get rid of.

3

vulgar.
.

Lily'i Grammar corjirued.

Sbakeffeare't Othello •

Away, I will not have to do with you.—
Shaiejf. Much Ado.
£anft thou fo do^ mc ?

Fiih that caft their fliell are the lohrtcr, the crab,
the craw-fifti, the hodmandod or dodman, and the

—

This word is in all its fenles obfolete,
and fcarcely ufed except by rulHcks;
yet it is a pure and commodious word.
DOG. n.f. [dogghe, Dutch; canis, Lat.]
1
A domeftic animal remarkably various
in his fpccies ; comprifmg the malUff,
the fpaniel, the bulldog, the greyhound,

Banrt.

[ba,
Jama, Latin.]

Saxon; daa,

A flie deer

;

5.

Danifti ;

the female

of a buck.
Then but forbear your food a little while.
While, like a doc, 1 go to find my fawn.
Hbakefpiart^s Aiyou like il.

And give it fond.

Bucks have horns, dca none.

Bac. Nat, Bift.

the hound, the

The fearful dot

many others.

And flying flag amidft tlie greyhounds go.
Drydeni Virgil.

No foouer he does peep into
The world, hut he has done his (fc<. Hudihras.
Do'er. n.f. [from To do.]
1. One that does any thing good or bad.
So foul a thing,

Do'DntitrD. adj. {{torn do.ider.'] Overgrown with dodder; covered with lupercrefccnt plants.
Near the h'arth a Llurel grrv,
JJtirfivVwi'.hagc, whofclKjughu cncompafs round
Ttw boufthold |ods, and ihaac the holy ground.

!

thou injufticc art,

Dane!.
Thattort'tcft both the d'itr and diftrelf.
!• may be indeed a public crime, or a national
dvr
and
the
mifchief i yet it is but a private aft,

brownilh VMth a caft of red, which run to great
They have tubercles, -wliich ftx tliem
lengths.
faft down to the plant, and by means of which they
abforb the juices dcAined for its oourilhment.
//.//.

O

tion.

rifing and fetting with the fun
during the canicular days, or dog days.

Among the fouthcrn condellations, two there

Sith thus tar we open the things that have been
done, let not the principal dtcri thcmfclves be for-

are who bear the name of the dog ; tiie one in fixtcen degrees latitude, containing on the Ict't thigh
a ftar of the firft magnitude, ufually called Procyon,

Hooker.

3. Performer.
One judgcth the priie to the bcft dur, of which
they arc no UU gUd than great prioco are of rriuraphs.

A conftellation called Sirius, or Canicula,

i'«"^-

Aftor ; agent.

gotten.

the cur, with

Thcmjon,
2.

of it may cbaiKC to pay his head for his prefump2.

terrier,

The larger fort are ufed

as a guard ; the lefs for fports.
Such fmiling rogues as thele looth every pa(ri)>n >
Renege, affirm, and turn their halcyon beaks
With ev'ry gale and vary of their mailers.
As knowing nought, like dogs, but following.
Shakeffeare's King Ltai\
Wliy (hould we not tliink a watch and piftol as
di(lin£t fpecies one from another, as a horfe and a
Locke^
dog f
The clamour roan of men, and boys, and dogi,

has to do ; what one can perform.

ef the plant, entangling itfrlf about them. It has
no leaves, hut conuils of capillamonts or ftalks,

to refer to an-

Every day thou doff'Ji me with fome device,
lago ; and rather kcep'il from me all convcniency,
than fupplicftmewith the lead advantage of hope.

Do'dman. n.f. The name of a fifli.

Doe. n.f.

Hhukijp. Macillh,
;

other time ; to put off.

would not buy them for a dodkin.

tortoifc.

Rotot,

to deveft of any thing.
Why art thou troubled, Herod ? What vain fear
Thy blood-revolving breaft doth move ?
Heav'n's king, who doffi himfclf our flefli to
wear,
Comes not to rule in wrath, but ferve in love.
;

this or

Do'd k I n n./ [duyileti, Dutch.]

Milton,

Alcidcs di-ffi the lion's tawny hide,

1.

thirty years.

Hmry IV.

Milun'e jlgoniftei.

X)o^ thofe links.
Nature, in awe to him.
Had doffd her gaudy tnm,

;

From this time it propagates itfeif along the (Valks

[from do off.]

To cru(h our old limbs in ungentle ((eel.

DoE. n.f. [from To do.] A feat what one

Dodder i» a fingula: plant: when it firft (hoots
faun the feed it has little roots, which pierce the
urth near the roou of other plants ; but the capiliamcau of which it is formed foon after dinging abfut thefe plants, the roou wither away.

Lecit'

a.

You have deceiv*d our trul^.
And made us dsff o\>r eafy robes of peace.

dance flic has led me ;

DO'DDER. ». /. [touterm, to ftioot up,
SAinmtr,}

1/.

To put offdrefs.

I.

to raife expec-

tations and difappoint them.

ciiJting authors iiito fcvcral clafTes.
Ilaivty on Conjutnpticm.

Dutch.

thofe countries.

To Doff.

Milton.

To play faft and loofe

matical, folcmnly trifling.
.Gentle infinuations pierce, as oil is the moft
g»netrating of all liquors ; but in magiftcrial dolunkRtt men think themfdves attacked, and ftand
Cot!crr.meni of tbt tor.guc*
«pon their guard.
It is not unnecediry to digcll the dotumtm of

Uaokcr,

Though lending to foreigners, upon ufe, doth
not at all alter the balance ot"" trade bet\veen thofo
countries, yet it doa alter the exchange between

For he had, any lime this ten years full,
him betwixt Cambridge and the Bull.
DoJs'dv\ti\
*

for them, that as her majefty made them difpenfaturs of her fiavour, fo it behovcth them to Aicw

2. Precept, in an ill fenfe ; a precept infolently authoritative, magifterially dog-

controllers of his wifdom.

Does. The third perfon from^, for doth.

To Ihift place as another approaches.

U is a mod neceflary inftruSion and JotuKtr.t
Bacon.
themf':!ves equal diltributors.
Learners fhould net be &>o much crowded with
a heap os multitude of dBcumtr.ti or ideas at one
fV.uti.
time.

Be doers of the word, and not hearers only.
Commat Prayer,
In this we (hew ourfelves weak, and unapt to be
be
diets of his will, in that we take upon us

Ualt'i Cotiltmplai'nn.
The canfideratjon fliould noake gien grow wcarj
Soutb.
of dodging and fhcwing tricks with God.

Do'cTRiNE. n. f. [afc<3rraa, Latin.]
1. The principles or pofitioas of any fed

The aa of teaching.

tifes.

confines
It follows ftreight, that e\ciy twelfth
Two whole and one half portion of the figos.

To Dodge, v. n.

Knollti'i Hijiirj,

One that habitually performs or prac-

Tia'Aii^rarnnoriM thus defcrib'd !

Thrice ten degrees, which every fign contains,
Let twelve exhauft, that not one part remains ;

If in good offices and due retributions we may
not be pinchipg and niggardly, it argues an earthly
and Ignoble mind, where we have apparently wronged, to higgle and dodge in the amends.

J.

in (hew thaa in deed.

5.

the form of dodrintj pofitively ; as
neceflkry to be held.
Scripture accommodates itfel/to comtnon opi-

bodies toward each other. Wdttiilmf.cfibcMind.

They ate great fpeakers but fmaU doin ; greater

.

I

is

dcSrinet fajj^y to the light, and invite men with
jiiu-riury.
he*iam to cx.imine them.
That greit principle in natural philofophy is the
dcflrim of gravitation, or mutual tendency of all

^hakrjfeare.

A figure of twelve fides.
Do D S C A T E VIO'r O N n./. [ J* JlK«I'!/*»ftl>».]

like a dog.]
tergivcrfa1. To ufe craft ; to deal with
tion ; to play mean tricks ; to ufe low

.

Fear not, my lord, we will not fta.id to prate |
Talkers are no good doer: : be alTur'd,
We go to ufe our bands, and not our tongues.

Dryden'l Fat/ei.

part of doftrine.
Not f»cl« aa aifent to trery word in Tcriptuie,
Sfutt.
can be bid in ^o^Wio/i to deny ChrilK
Doctri'n ALLY, flr/x'. [from JoiHrini.] In

rion3, and employs the ufual tbrnu ot fpeech,
without delivering any chinj doBntially concerning
Jtaytbcfe poinM.
_

An ateve, or bufy, or valiant perfon.

4.

Ser<-WO»d, and firs, and dtddtr'd oaks to find.

ing.

Doctri'nal. n. /.

DOG

DOE

D O D

Brovins Vulgar Errcun,
or Anticanus.
It parts the twins and crab, the dog divides,

And Argo'skedtliat broke the frothy tides. Creech,

Siiinry.

3.
I

r

A

DOG

DOG

3. Areproachful name for a man.
I never

Do'gdats. «.f. [dog and days.] The days Do'sHOLE. n.f. [dog and Me.]
in which the dogllar fifes and fets with
hole
a mean habitation.

heard a paHion fo confus'd.

So ftrange, outrageous, and fo variable.
As the itg Jew did utter in the ftreets.
Beware of Jogs, bevi

.e

Sttkeff.

of evil workers.
Fli/.

2.

ili.

Could he himfelf have fent it to the dog! f

Pore.

It is ofed as the term for the male of feveral fpecies
as, die dog fox, the Jog

the fun, vulgarly reputed unwholefome.
Nor was it more in hia power to be without prft-

France is a dsghole, and it no ic£>re merits the
tread of a man's foot : to the wars.
Shakejfeare.

motion and titles, than for a healthy man to lit in
the fun, in the brighteft dc^dajs, and remain without warmth.
Clarendon.

To the dear playhoufe, and the players too.

Otter.

thxnk you ; but

I'll

that they call compliments is like the encounter of
two Jtig apes.
Shakef^are.
The Came ill tafte of fenfe will ferve to join

Dog foxes in the yoke, and Iheer the fwinc. Dryil.
6. Dog is a particle added to any thing,
to mark meannefs, or degeneracy, or
worthleflnefs : as, dog rofe.

a dog, infidioufly and indefatigably.

jij

Doge. n.f.

[^/sg-f,

Italian.]

Of our renowned filler.

Mi/isn.

Do'cFLv. n.f [dog and_/!y.] A voracious

purfued, deggij, and way-laid
through fevcral nations, and even now fcarce think

myfelf fecjre.

p,^,.

Hate dogi their rife, and infult mocki their fail.
y^anilj of Human Wijhn.

DoG-FisHER. n f [dcg Aad/Jher.y

Thou makeft gods fight thus ?

I '11

fill

A

Do'gcedness. n.f. [ from dogged. ] Gloom
of mind; fullenneft ; morofenefs.
Do'cGER. n.f. [from dog, for its mean-

t^alton.

human head next to the

grinders ; the eye-teeth.

nefs.

The bcft inftrumcnts for dividing of herbs arc
incifor-teeth ; for cracking of hard fubl»ance~,

:i.

bones and nutr, grinders, or mill-teeth}
for dividing of flefli, iharjJ-pfjintod or Jog-iceib,

ArbulhnU on Mmei-.ti.

DoG-TRicK. «./ [dogmdtri^.] An ill
turn ; furly or brutal treatment.
l..arn better ninners, or I (hall
lerve you a Jog.

make you know your rider.
Drfdtn'i Don Stiajliafi.
,
,,,
Do OBAtiB. n.f ,[dcg and hane.] A plant.
I'll

AL//e,:

A kind of cherrv.

Do CBOLT. „.f [dog and 60/1.]

Of thu

word 1 know not tlie meaning, uniefa
it
be. that when meal or flower
is /ifted or

bolted to a certain degree,
the coarfcr
part 13 called dogiolt. or
flower for dogj.
His only folace was, tliat
now
Hi. dgl-.li fortune was fo

low.
That titlicr it murt quickly end,
Or torn about again, and mend.

IludHrat.

Tlie
the cynofba'

[from dog.]
Loofed
from the meal'ures or rules of regular
poetr^ ; vile
defpicable ; mean ufed
of vcrfes.
Then haden Og and Doeg to rthearfe.
:

Two fools that crutch tlieir frcble fcnfe on vcrfe

Who by my mufe to all fuccecding times

uii dxgchfaf >

j

Shili live, in fpitc of their own </s^'r</ rhymes.

Drydtn.

Your wit biirli-fque may one ftep higher climb.

And in his fphere may judge all dogg'rel rhyme.
Dryden.
It it a difpute among th»criticks, whether burl!:lque poctiy runs beft in hcroick vcrfe, like that
ff the Dlfpcnlary ; or in ioggril, like that of Hu-

MMfons SpcSlator.

iJi*""'.

Do'cGEREL. n.f

Mean, defpicable,
worthlefs vcrfes.
1 he hand and head v^'erc never loft of thofe

Dryden'i Jutienal.
The vilfft dog£rel Grubftreet fends
Will pafs for yuiirs with foes and friends. Sicifi.

Do'ggish. adj. [from dog.]

Churlilh ;

brutal.

as dogs meat ; cheap as
the offal bought
"
tur dogn.

lofophcr laying down the lirll principles

of a k&.
The dim and bounded intellefl of man feldom
profperoudy

adv«ntures to be dogmatical about
things that approach to infinite, whether in vaft-

ncfs or littlenci's.

Boyle.

my

I laid by
natural diffidence and fcepticifn»
for a while, to take up that dogmatical way, which

much his charaOcr. .
Dryden.
Learning gives us a difcovery of our ignorance,
and keeps us from being peremptory and do^wafi..'
cal in our determinations.
Collier on Pride.
Ciititks write in a pofitive (/o^maririS way, »ithout either language, genius, or imagination.
is fo

Do'cGER El. eidj>

Cruel ;

Sp(^a:9r»

One of thefe authors is indeed fo grave, (cntentious, dogmatical i rogue, that there is no enduring
him.

Dogma'ticaily. adv. [from dogmatical.]

M.igiflcrially ; pofitively.
not prcfume to interpofc dogmatically in a
controvcrfy, which I look never to lee decided.
1 (hall

.'youth.

Doc ma'tic ALNESS, n.f. [from dogmaThe quality of being dogmatimock authority.
Do'omatist. n.f [dogmatifte, Fr.] A
tical.]

cal ; magifterialnefs ;

magifterial teacher ; a pofitive afferter ;

a bold advancer of principles.
I

could (lefiribe the vanity of

pitilefs

[dog and heart.
]
malicious.

adj.
;

His unkindnffs,

That ftript her from his beneditlioi>, turn'd her

To f'.Trign cafiialtiei;, gave her dear rights
T« his di,;i,eart^ daughter!. Shakei'f. K. tetr

bold

opinion,

which the dogmatifts thcmfclvcs demonftrate in all
the controvcrfies they arc engaged in.
Glatti^ille's Sceffi.

A dogmaiiJI in religion is not a great way off
from a bigot, and is in high danger of growing up
to be a bloody pcrfccutor.
ffatis's Im/irKement of the MinJ.

To Do'gmatize.t;. «. [from dogma.]
affert

[dogznd cb,ap.-[ Cheap Do'ghearted.

<;o..J H.TC 9f harlotH fny
yoB,

A fraall Ihip with one

mart.

Who dealt in dogg'rel, or who pin'd in profc.

,./ [^«^ and ir/ar.]

DoocHE-AP. „dj

Siinutr.]

S ul-

fourly ; morofely.

in the manner of a phi-

rial ; pofitivC ;

Dogged York, that readies at the moon,
Wht.fe over-wcening arm I have pluck'd back,
By falfe accufe doth level at my life.
, Sbiilnff tare's Henry VI.
Few miles on horfeback had they jogged.
But fortune unto them turn'd digged. H-Jdilras.

dogged. ]

4yf(fe'i Parergon.

;

nefs.

Doc-TEETH, n.f. [dog and teeth.'] The

chriflian faith.

isiaktjfeare's King "John.

[ from

[In canon law.] Dogma is that determination which confifls in, and has a
relation to, fome cafuillical point of doctrine, or fome dodririal part of the

Docma'tical. \adj. [horn dogma.] AviDogma'tick. j thoritative magifte-

thefe dogged fpies with falfe reports.

'fly; gloomily;

Efhiblifhed principle ; do'ftrinal notion.

Our poet V.-1S a ftoick philofopher, and all his
moral fentences are drawn from thi dogmas of that
fea.
J
Dryicn.

fourj

morofe ; ill-humoured
gloomy.
Your uncle muft not know but you arc dead ?

Do'cGEDLY. adv.

briar that be.irs the hip
;
ton.

1.

Chafman'i Iliad.

Do'ccED. adj. [from<j'<i^.] Sullen;

harbours on dogs.

DO'GMA. n.f [Latin.]

2.

ran ;

kind of fi(h.
The dog.fjber is good againft the falling fick-

B » I AR .

that

^

biting fly.

Glaitville.

been

am defired to recommend a dtgiennel to airy

feft that

Vyoodviard.

;

Thefe fp'ritual joys trcdcggeJby no fad fequels.

Do

Dry den.

Addifon.

whft's the caufe

Rfriert.
I fear the dread events that dug
them both.
Left fome ill-greeting touch attempt the perfon

DoGBERRY-TRKE.

A

(hall want a pack.
Ttnlcn
Do'gfish. n.f [from dog z.rxdffh.\ AnDo'g LOUSE, n. f. [dog and loufe.] An in.
other name for a fhark.

Sorrow dogging fin.
Afflictions forted.

A

certain nobleman, beginning with a Jcgkennel,
never lived to finifli the palace he had contrived.
I

we.-ilth.

Thefe vile words ufliering his blows. Thou dogfiy,

tr'tik ;

Vope.

[dog a.nd kennel.]
little hut or ho«ie for dogs.

palace, with the title of deliverer of the common-

Sbakefpiarr.

teeth in the

On fome patch'd dogbole ek'd with ends of wall.

the chief magi ilrate of Venice and Genoa.
Doria has a ftatue at the entrance of the doge's

Thump-buckler Mars began.
And at Minerva with a lance of brafs he headlong

I have

DryJen's yuveXtt,
Revcrfe your ornaments, and hang them all

The title of Do'cKENNEL. »./

him like his murthcter. Shahff
I, his despiteful Juno, fent him forth
From courtly friends, with camping foes to live.
Where death and iingadog the heels of worth.
I li«»e tUrfd

Sweet country feats are purchas'd ev'ry where.
With lands and gardens, at iefs price than here
You hire > darkfome dfgi'ole by the year.

nifeft deprehenfion of an offender againfl
venifon in the foreft, when He is found
drawing after a deer by th« fcent of a
hound whichheleadsin hishand. Con.veIl.

It it part of the jaw of a ihark, or dogfijh.

To Doc. v. e. [from the noun.] To hmit,

But, could you be content to bid adieu

Do'cDRAW. n.f. [dog and drteiv.'] A ma-

:

If ever I tlianfc any man,

A vile

;

4. 7*9 gi-ve or fend to the Dogs ; to throw
away. To go to the DoGS ; to be ruined,
deftroyed, or devoured.
Hadwhole Colepepcr'swealth beenbops and hogs.
5.

DOG

pofitively ;

to

To

advance without

diftrull ;

to teach magifterially.
with the pride ol dogmaiixing fchools,
Jmpos'd on nature arbitrary rules
;
'I

liple,

Forc'd her their vain inventions to obey.

And move as learned frenzy trac'd the way.

^

Blacktnori,

4

C z

Dogma*

6. Feftivity ; merriment : as, jolly </w'»jf/.
7. This word is now only ufed in a ludi-

Dor.UATi'zER.

». /. \ from //egmatize.']
a magillcrial teacher ; a
bold advancer of opinions.

An afTerter

;

a condition of bringing France to our

fcfiions of our church, arc not properly chargeable

either on Papifts or ProteilantSy but on particuUr
Hammcrtti.
Gtgmafia^eri of both parties.

n. /.

\_dffg

and

Doit. «./.

Had dearly earn'd a little purfe of gold

mentions a drowfy hufband,
but then he is
;

who raifcd an eftace by fnoriug

DOLE. «./ [from deal; balan, Saxon.]

queruloufly.

yuur prefurmife.
That in the dolt of blows your fon might drop.
It was

A^iitjan.

call Jcfjlnf.

Re-

Sbakeffteare.

fufe ; vile ftuff ; offal like the flelh fold

The perfonal fruition in any man cannot reach
to feel great riches : there is a cuftody of them, or

to feed dogs.

a power ofici/< and donative of them,
tliem, but no folid ufe to the owner.
At her general dole,
Each receives his ancient foul.

His reverence bought of me the flower of all the
Drydtn.
market ; thcfe are but dugjmtat to 'em.
Do'csTAR. n. f. [//of and_/?ar ; canicula,

Lat.]
The liar wliich gives the name
to the dogdays.
All ftion the raging JogftM-'i fultry heat.
And from the half-unpeopled town retreat.

Do'gtrot. n./.

[Jog ini trot.}

A gen-

Let us, that are unhurt and whole.
Fall on, and happy man he's dole.

rity.

They had fuch firm dependence on the day,
Si> fure

the

firft

A fpecies of cornelian

A fpecies of woollen ftuff

ance, though never fo good, as we arc of one fuit,
though never fo fine : a fool, and a Joily ftuO',
would now jnd then find days of grace, and be

5.

A Dutch
and German coin of different value,
from about tivo (hillings and fixpence to
four and fixpence.
He diftjurs'd
Ten thoufahd dollars for our gen'ral ufe.

,

Skakcffeare's Machetb,

Dolori'fick. adj. [ dolorificus Latin.]
That which caufes grief or pain.
,

Grief; forrow ; mifery.

Thepain returned, difiiparing that vapour which
obftru£lcd the nerves, and giving \he dolorifick motion free palTage again.
Ray%
This, by the foftncfs and rarity of the fluid,
infenfible, and not dolorfik.

unto bcrfelf, as a pattern of worthy proceeding.
S':drry.

If I'm ttaduc'd by tongues which neither know

My faculties nor perfor, yet will be

Sorrowful ; doleful ; difmal ; gloomy ;
impreffing forrow.

1

Have we, as 'twere, with a defeated joy.
With minh in funeral, and with dirge in marriage,

We are taught, by his example, thatthe prefcnce
of dolorous and dreadful objefts, even in minds moft

'

In equal fcale weighing delight and dsle,

Shakefjfieare's Hamlet.
Taken to wife.
They might hope to change
Torment with eafe, and fooned rccompcnfc

Dole with delight.

perfefl,

Tis but the face of place, and ihe rough brake

That virtue murt go through. Sbalt, Hen. VIII.
At length a reverend fire among them came,

Mi'tcn's Faradije Loft.

Milton,

Never the earth on his round (boulders bare

A maid train'd up from high or low degree.
Thai in her dymgs better could compare
Mirth with rcffeft, few wards with curtcfy.
SiJiiy.

Dangerous it were for the feeble brains of man to
Hooter.

Shall {here be then, in the mtan while, no doJiooler.

fcafjnable

Hookir.
:

O'er many a frozen, many a fiaiy alp.

Rocks, caves, lakes,

lens, bogs, dens, and fliades
of death.
M^'ton's Paradife Loft.
Talk not of ruling in this doTrous gloom.
Nor think vain words, he cried, can eafe my

Sorrowful ; difmal ; expreffing grief
querulous.
She earneltly tntreated to know the caufc theremight comfort or accompany

2.

her doleful humour.
Sidney.
For none but you, or who of you it learns.

doom.
Pcfe,
Painful.
Their difpatch is quick, and lefs dolonux than
the paw of the bear, or teeth of the lion.
More's Antidote againft Aibeifm.

Can rightfully aread (0 drleful \a'j,
Spenfer,
With tVrcwed f ice, and doleful whine, they only

Do'lour. n.f.

ply with fenfelcfs harangu:s of confcicDCC again/)

1.

Soutb.

[(/o/w, Latin.]

Grief; forrow.

1 've words too few to take my leaveof you,
When the tongue's oflice (hould be prodigal,
To brcatlie th' abundant dolour of the heart. Shak.
2. Lamentation ; complaint.

Juft then the hero caft a doleful cry.

And in thofe ardent flames began to fry
The blind contagion rag'd within his veins. Dryd.
2. Melancholy; afflifted ; feeling grief;
:

Conduft ; difpenfatton

all

fpake t' you for your comfort.
Sbakefpeare.
Through many a dark and dreary vale
They pafs'd, and many a region dolorous.

[from the noun.] To
-v. a.
DiSl.
deal ; to diftribute.
Dole. »./. Void fpace left in tillage. DiSl.

carnal oidinances.

clouds, overcaft

I

of, that either Oie

Behaviour ; conduft.

as

You take me in too dolorous a fenfe

To Dole.

1

may,

joy.

Do'leful. adj. [dole znd /ill/.]

The chronicles of my doing, let mc fay

is

yirbtitbnot on Air.

Do'lorous. adj. [from dolor, Latin.]

Sbakcjfeare's As you like it.
Our fomctime fifter, now our queen.

Feats ; a£lions : good or bad.
The next degree was to mark all Zelmane^s
doirgtf f^Kcchcs, and fafhions, and to take them

ing! f

[from //c/or.]

Sbakifpeare.

Do'llar. n. f. [daler, Dutch.]

beholders take his part with weeping.

This word

wade far into the dungi of the Moft High.
r. Stir ; bulllc; tumult.

A little girl's puppet or baby.

Yonder they lie; the poor old man, thrir famaking fuch pitiful d<de over them, that all

tranfaftions.
1 have but Icill'd a fly.—
—But how if that fly had a father and mother ?
How would he hang his fl:nder gilded wings.
And buz lairiented doings in the air ! Sbakeffean.

4.

2.

ther,

1. Things done ; events;

3.

A contraftion of Dorothy.

Obfolete.

Cougrme's Way of the WarId.

And of their dtinri great diflike dedar'd.
And teftiflcd againft their ways.

1.

Milton.

has hardly any fingular.]

•

Doi.L. n.f.

He now be dealing dole among his foes,
And over heaps of flaughtcr'd walk his way ?

We Qiould be as weary of one fet of acquaint-

z.

a dolefomc manner.
Do'i.EsoM ENESS. n.f. [from dolefome.}
Gloom ; melancholy ; difmalnefs.

Blows dealt out.
What if his eye-fight, for to Ifrael's God
Nothing is hard, by miracle reftor'd,

;

from the name of

Do'iNCs. n.f. [from To do.

/•o/w'i Odyjfcy-.

Do'lesomei.y. ad-v. [from dolefeme.} Jn

Vrydens ^u-venal.
4.

maker.

worn for variety.

The dolefme pafla^e to th' infernal ^y.

Doll learfticit.

Divided dole is dealt at th' outward door,
Which by the hungry rout is foon difpatch'd.

cherry.
»./.

doleful.
Hell-ward bending o'er the beach defcry

the dole, fo ready at their call,

They Hood prcpar'd to fee the manna fall. Dryd.
Clients of old were feafted ; now a poor

as a dog ; exceffively weary.
Oh, marter, maftcr, 1 have watchM fo long.
That Vm di^gweary* Shak. taming ef the Shrciu,

fo called, I fuppofe,

Qucruloufncfs.
Difmalnefs.
Do'leso.\ie. adj. [from dele.}
Melancholy ; gloomy ; dilmal ; forrow/ul ;
3.

That need grew pamper'd, and forgot to pray ;

A Hogtrct through the bawling crowd. Huaihrai.
Dogwe'arv. <J/^'. [dog znA nxieary .} Tired

Doi'ly.

Hudibras.

3. Provifions or money diftributed in cha-

tle trot like that of a dog.
This faid, they both aJvanc'd, and rode

Do'gwood. n.f.

Bacon.

Sorrow; melancholy.

1.

2.

Cltavdand.

Now, my mafters, happy man be his dole, fay I
Sbalejjfieare.
every man to his bufinefs.

jlJd.

Miller.

orafame ot

Do'lefulness. n.f. [hom doleful.}

Any thing dealt out or diftributed.

2.

Do'csTOOTH. n.f. [from Jog and tooth.'\

A plant.

The tedious load, and laid his burden dpwn. Prior.

Do'le FULLY, adv. [{vom doleful.'] In a
doleful manner; forrowfully; difmally;

The aft of dillribution or dealing.

1.

reprefcnted to have flept what the common people

Milton's Par. Loft.

!

Happy th; mortal man, who now at laft
Has through this doleful vale of mis'ry paft;

Who to his deftin'd nage has carried on

He

Do'csMEAT. n. /. [dog and meat."]

And reft can never dwell

j

Tir'd with a tedious march, one luf kiefs night
Fefe.
flept, poor dog ! and loft it to a doii.

Pre-

tended fleep.
indeed

No light, but rather darknefs vifible,
Scrv'd only to difcover fights of woe.
Regions of farrow, dileful ihadcs, where peace

In Anna's wars a foldier, poor and old,

brUr> or Jogrcftf are a good indancc.
Derham's PhyJico-tbtDhgy.

Juvenal

medy againft all doleful and heavy accidents, which
befal men in this prefent life.
Hooker,

doyght, Erfe.]

beggar, they will lay out ten to f:e a dead Indian.
Shahfptare's Tanptjl.

Of the rough or hairy excrefcence, thofe on the

[dog zn^Jleep.']

[duyt , Dtnch ;

mity and courage ; fcrveth as a moft approved re.

terms. Swi/r.

When they wiU not give a doit to relieve a lame

flower of the hip.

Do'csLEEp. «. y;

maketh the virtuous, in trouble, full of magnani-

A fmall piece of money.

The

rc/i.]

Difmal ; imprefling forrow ; dolorifick.
It watercth the heart to the end it may fruftify ;

J.

crous fenfe, or in low mean language.
After fuch miraculous doings, we ate i;ot yet in

Such op:nion«, bring not entered into the con-

Do'cROSE.

D O L

D O L

D O I

Never troubling him either with

aflcing quef-

forrowful.

tions, or finding fault with his

How oft my doleful (i:e cry'd to laei tarry, fon.
Sidney.
When fitft he fyj'd my love,

rather fitting to his dolour dolorous difcourfcs of
their own and other folks misfortune.
Sidnty.

melancholy; but

'

3-

Pain;

1

3. Pai'n J

them

Is

forward, till it be too late to recall them.
Hooker J Dedicaticti*
Equality of two domcflkk pow'rs
Breeds fcrupulous faiiion.
Sbak, Ant, and Qltcf.
Combine together 'gainft the enemy;
For thcle d(mcpuk and particular broils
Are not the queftion here.
Shakefp. King Ltar.

Bacim.

go'd, doth avert the dokars of death.

Latin; thougK
Do'lphin.
the dolphin is fuppofcd to be not the
fame fi(h.] The name of a iifli.
n.'f. [ifi'-'-hin,

His driighrs

Were Jif/^in like; they rtievv'd his back above
'rlie element they liv'd in.

A heavy

a blockhead ; a thick-

fellow ;

Domi'nmon. ti.f. [dominium, Latin.]
I .

Chiefly on man.
He gave us only over beaft, fifli, fowl.
Dominion abfolute ; that right we hold

By his donation

prelfing of it, by darnip'uk dilTentitms.
5;</«.

Thcu haft not half that power to do me harm,
As I have to be hurt; oh gull, oh doh.
$hak£jf>cjrc''s dbelh.
As ignorant as dirt
Like iTiCn condemn^ to thundcr-bults^
Who, ere the blow, become meie dJts;
They neither have the hearts to ftay.
HuJiiras.
Nor wit enough to run away.

.

To Do M e's 1 c A T E
1

. t/.

K. Clnir'es.

Milton.

but man over man
Milton.

Bleft ufa of pow'r,

O virtuous pride in kings'!

And like his kaunty whence dominion fprings.
Tiekell.
:

2.

Power ; right of poffcflion or ufe, without bcirtg accountable.

a. [from domeJHck.'\

He

To. make domellick; to withdraw from
the publick.

:

He made not lord.

theirs muft needs be, who hindered the fpecjy fup-

fcull , a loggerhead.
Let litilti in hafte fome altar fair ereft
To thcfc high pow>s, which idly fix. above*

Sovereign authority ; unlimited power.
They on the earth
D'minion exercife, and in the air.

Such they were, who might p.-el'ume t" have
done
Much for- the king ani honour of the ftatej
Having the chiefclt actions undcfj^^ae.
DanUL
Both foreign and dtmcjliatlf of late.
Next to the fin of thofe who began that rebellion,

Shaktffiare.

Draw boys riding upon goats, eagles, and JolPaekjm.
flins.

DOLT. «./. [M, Teutonick.]

The cycle of the moon ferves to (hew the epafls,
and that of the fun the don^injcal letter, throughout
Holder on Time.
all their variations.

Dcm.JJicj! evils, for that we think we can mi.rter
at all times, are often permitted to run on

pang.

A mind fixed and bfnt upon fomewhat that

ftupiJ

DON

DOM

DOM

could not have private dominion over that,

which was under the private dominion of another.

Clarijfa.

Loi'ke,

!

Dome'stick. n. f. One kept in the fame
houfe.
he lives as a kind of foreigner
under tlie fame roof; a doincjiick, and yet a ftranger

his lord's purpofcs :

Do'ltish. adj. [from </»//.]
mean dull blockilh.

Stupid;

;

;

Dametas, the mod arrant doliijh cIowB that ever
was without the privilege of a bauble.
Sidney.

To Do'mify. v. a, \domifico, Latin.] To
tame.
Did.
Do'min ANT. adj. \dr,m'nant, French dominans, Latin.]
Predominant; prefid-

Davits on Inland,
4.

5.

Dia.

Doma'in.
1.

To predominate ; to prevail over

[Jomaine, French, from
dominium, Latin.]

reft.

Dominion; empire.

The dominatirg humour makes the dream.

n. /.

Rome's gicac erapeior, whofe wide domain

Had ample territory, wealth, and pow'r.

AJilton.

Ocean trembles for his green dt^mj.n,

Thomfttn.

3. The land about a maniion houfe occupied by the lord.
Dome. n. /. [dome, French, from domus,
Latin.]
building ; a houfe ; a fabrick.
1 .
Beft be he caJl'd among good mer.
Who to hif God tliis column lais'd
Though lightning flrike the dimt again,

A

:

Prhr,

Stranger! whoe'er thou art, fecurely reft
Affianc'd in my faith, a friendly gucft ;

title for

2.

2.

A hemifpherical arch

;

a cupola.

of his own eftate in Thracia, the place of his nativity; whither he retired, to withdraw from the
unjud domination of Opilius Macrinus.

Arhutbmt on Corns.
J. One highly exalted in power: ufed of
angelick beings.

not open.

In this their domtftkal celebration of the PafTovcr, they divided fupper into two courfes.

Hmktr,

Beholding thus, O happy as a qneen
cry ; but (Kift the gaudy, flatt'ring fccnc.

We

For thither flic mull come, at lead at night*
GranvtlU.

3. Inhabiting the houfe ; not wild.
The faithtui prudent hulband is an honed,
tra'93ble, and damcflkk animji.
jidd.hn'i Spilt.
JL.

Not foreign ;

inteiiine.

To put on; to
Ob-

invert with ; the contrary to doff.
folete.

The purple morning left her crimfon bed.
And donned her robes of pure vermilion hue.

MUton's Paradift Loft.
Hear, all ye angels, progeny of light.
Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, pow'rs

Fairfax,
Fairfax,
Ihould 1 don this robe, and trouble you

Her helm the virgin donnd,

What

!

Milton.

!

Shahejpeare,

A

Do'minative. adj. [{TOm dominate.'] Im- Do'nary. n. /.
Di3.

[donarium, Latin.]
thing given to facred ufes.
Dona'tion. ti.f. [donatio, Latin.]
1 .

ence.

To Domine'er. "v.

n. [dominor,

To rule with infolence

;

chaftifing the pafTions, as old £1! did his luftfui

South.

domineering fons.

Sunday.

ther's

2.

money.

South.

The grant by which any thing is given »
or conferred.
Howfucver tlie letter of that donation may be unregarded by men, yet the fenfc thereof is fo imprinted in their hearts, as if every one laid claim

Latin.]

the Lord's day, or

Do'native. n. /. [donatif. Ft. from do-

And hers to domineer at home.
notes

Milton s Paradife hoft.
After donation there is an abfolute change and
alienation made of the property of the thing given!
which being fo alienated, a man has no more to
do with it than with a thing bought with ano-

RaliigFs Effays.
The kingdoms of the world to thee were gjv n.
Permitted rather, and by thee ufurp'd
Other donation none thou canft produce.
Milton.

His wtflies tend abroad to roam.

That which

that right we hold

for himfelf unto that which was conferred upon all.

He fighi fir freedom, flie for pow'r;

Domi'nical. adj.

He gave us only over heaft, filh, fowl,

to

blufter ; to afl without controul.
Go to tlic fcatt, revel, and d^jmineer,
Caroufc full meafure. Shakeff. lam. oftheSbrr^o.
The voice of confcicncc now is low and weak,

The adl of giving any thing ; the aft
of bellowing.
Dominion abfolute ;
By his donation,

Litin.]

to fwell ;

Both would their little ends fecure j

View her at liuine in her d'.mJUck light,

Hudibras.

To Don. o/. a, [To do on.]

He heav n of heav'ns,and all the powers therein,

impatient of fcrritude, lovers of liberty, martial,
and courageous.
Camden s Rcmumu

;

Dryd.

But Ralph himfelf, your trufty fquire,

Til' afpiring dominations.

helps and fupplics than domejlica/ ; (uch as that
which the prophet implieth, faying, Can a mother

done at home

a gentlemar ; as, Don Quixote.

Wh' lias d.agg'd your donjhip out 0' th' mire.

By thee created ; and by thee threw down

Jupiter and Mars are dominators for this northweft pait of the world, which makcth the people

2. Private ;

16.

I'm none of rhofe,

The nccefiities of man had at the firft no other
foriet lier child ?
Ifeoler.
The praftical knowledge of the domiftick duties
is the principal glory uf a woman.
Cter\Jfi.

:

i.

Your bofnm- friends, as you fuppofe ;

Maximinus traded with the Goths in the product

,.

things publick.

Col.

Quality or
rank of a gentleman or knight.

Shakf/ptarii King John.

periou; ; infolent.

Belonging to the houfe ; not relating to

throne* or dominions, or

It is with us ufed ludicroufly.
To the great d:ns of wit,
Phtthns gives them full priviltge alone
To damn all others, and cry up their own.

Tyranny; infolent authority.

DOME'STICAL. )
.j
„ r . DOMINA'TOR.n./.[hzt\n.'\ ThepreDOME-STICK. I ^dj-[d'»^'P<^hLai.]
fiding or predominant power or influ1

b.;

Do'n'hip. n, /. [fTom don.]

Approach the dmt, the focial banquet Ihare.
Pifc'i Odyjfij.

Dryd.

Thou and thine ufurp
The domwat'on, royalties, and rights

Of thisopprrfTcd l>oy.

Dryder'i jfEiuiJ.

Theman wiiobuikitihalibeprais'd.

conclude my theme.

Power; dominion.

A Latian field, with fruitful plains.

they

principjlltie; or powers.

the

DoMiN a'tion. ». y; \_dominatio, Latin.]
1.

And a large poition of the Icing's J.mmiis-

vifiblc, wi)e!!ier

Don. n. f. [dominus, Latin.] The Spanifti
I thus

2. Pofleffion; eflate.

An order of angels.
By him were all things created, vifible and in-

Do'm able. aJj. [Jemaiilit, Latin.] Tame- To DO'MINATE, m. a. [domhaius, Lat.]
able.

Predominance ; afcendant.
Objefls placed foremoft ought tobemorefiniflied
than thofe caft behind, and to have dominion over
things confufcd and tranfient. Drydens Dufrejniy,

;

ing ; afcendant.

confide'red

pope's ufurped authority was at thehigheft.

South.

too*
Siv'tf:.

:

as fubjeft.
T';"! donations of bifliopricks the kingsof England did ever retain in all thcirf^cmmionr, when the

A fctvant dwells remote from all knowledge of

Wood's aiult*rate copper,
Which, as he fcattei'd, we, Ilk': di.':s,
Miftook at 5rft for ihundfr-bolts.

Territory; region ; diftrift

3.

[dominicalh,

Prio"-.

natus, Latin.]
1.

A

BOO
A gift

4.

;

DOR
command by uncon-

Fcr without rules there can be na an, any men
than there can be a houfe without a door to conduct
you in.
Diydcn.
2. In familiar language, a houfe; often in

trollable authority.
Fate and the gods, by their fopremc command,
Hivc dijtn'd our ikips to feck the 1-itian land.

the plural, doors.
Lay one piece of flcrti or fifli in the open air, ani
another of the lame kind and bignefs within d»>rs.

Drydtn't Mnnd.
hav< BO will but what your eyes ordain ;
Deliin'd to love, as they arc dovm'd to reign.

Bacon's Natural H:Jhry.
Let him doubt whether his cloaths be warm,
and fo go naked ; whether his houfe be firm, and
live without i/sors.
Decay of Fi.ty,
Martin's office is now the fccoud d-^cr in the
ftrcet, where he will fee Parnel.
jirbutbntt.
Lambs, though they aic bred within doors, and
neixr faw the actions of their own ftccics, pu<B at
thofe who approach thorn witli thcirforeheaJs.
Mdifor's Sf'tffator.
The fultan entered again tlie pcafant's lioufe,and
turned the owner out oidars, yiddi/on's Guardian,

Have I a tongue to </«m my fcrotlier't dtaeh,

a largefs ; a prefeot ; a dole of

Ar.d Oiall that tonj^ue give pardon to a flave }

jnoney dillribitted.
The Roman emperor's cuAom wai, ae certain
'f(>lanm times, to b'.-ilow on bis loUicrs a dnainu]

Shake^eare.

To delline

5.

whicb dtnu'rvt tiiey received wearing gafUnJs up.
on ihcir heads.
Hixitr.

They were eotertained with puhlick Oiewi and
Jmat'rvti, to make them
loft libeK|r.

more ealiiy digcH their
Drydm.

2. [In law.] A 'benefice merely given and
coUated by the patron to a man, without
either prefentacion to the ordinary, or
inHitution by the ordinary, or indudion

ky his orders.

'

pc^JJ". of the verb To Jo.
Another like fair tree eke grew thereby,

Granville.

Judicial fentence ; judgment.
He's fled, my lord, and all his pow'rs do yield;
And humbly thus, with halters on their necks,

1.

•

Expert your highnefs' doom of life or death.
Shakcf[*itre.

Though in myOerious terms, jadg'd as then bed.

Muft have been loft, adjudg'd to death and hell

Entrance ; portal.
The tender blades of grafs appear
And buds, that yet the blaft of Eurus fear,

By do;m fevere.

Stand at the dcor of life, and doubt to clotlic the

And now, without rcdcmptbn, all mankind
Mihon.
In the great day, wherein the fecrets of all hearts
fhall be laid open, no one fliall be made to anfwer
for what he knows nothing of ; but ftiatl receive
his dxm, his confcicnce accufing or excufing him.

Sf>tKjtri Fairy ^{tn.

Do

:

Z>«>H : the wager ?

Staktfpearc'tTtm/Kj}.
One thing, fweet-heart, I will alkj
Take me for a ncw-fafljion'd malk,
^^Vofie: but niy bargain fliall be this,
CItavelcnJ,
I'll throw my mafk off when I kifs.
Twas done and done, and the fox, by confcnt^
was to be the judge.
h'''Efirar.gt,

from domnionum, low Latin, according
to Menage.'] The higheft and ftrongeft
tower of the caftle, in which prifoners

were kept ;

as in Chaucer,
It
ufed of fubterraneous prifons.

now

is

The gallows and the whip are our of door.

Sbakefp. King Lear.

Dryden's Perfu!.'
His imaginary title of fatherhood is out rf doors,
and Cain is no prince over his brother.
Locke,

Determination declared.

4.

If friend or foe, let him be gently us'd.

—Revoke

6.

that dotm of mercy, for 'tis CliflTord.
Sbtikffeare.

Ruin ;

J>o'nor. n.f. [from Jono, Latin.] A giver;
a beftower ; one who gives any thing.

bi any of wjiich parts if I have failed, the

mighty check to beneficent tempers to
confider how often good dcfigns arc fruftratcJ and
perverted to purpofcs, which, could the duncn
themfelvcs have forefcen, they would have been
It is a

/llterbury.

Doo'dle. r.. f. [a cant word, perhaps
"{

A

an idler.

de(lru£lion.

From tlie fame foes, at laft, both felt their doom
And the fame age faw learning fall, and Rome.

A

feditious word leads to a broil, and a riot unpunilhed is but next door to a tumult. L'Eftran^e.

Do'oRCASE. n.f. [door and

Ptfe.

Doo'msd AV. n. /. [doom and day.]
The day of final and univerfal judg1
the laft, the great day.
Men, wives, and children ftare, cry out, and run,
As it were doomfday,
Shakcffeare' s Julius Cafar.
They may ferve for any theme, and never be

ing of two pieces of wood athwart two other pieces.

To DOOM. T. a. [bcman, Saxon.]
Him through malioe fall'n.

iooi.]

thou didS not dvn

";i".

Do'tiUET.

fentence.

DOOR. n. /. [boji, feupe, Saxon

SKitb.

To pronounce condemnation upon any.
Minos, the ftriil incjuiiitor, appears.

And lives ami crimes, with his amrlTors, hears
Round in his urn the blended balls he rnwis,
Abfolves the Jul}, and dooat the guilty fouls.
Dryden't j^neid.

To command judicially or authorita-

Before Thcinttitution of this office, no doqnet
licence to alien, nor warrant for pardon of
alienation made, could be purchafcd without an
oa^t"-

liaansOJiceofeHimatior.,

Do'rmant. adj. [dormant, French.]
Sleeping.

1.

He a dragon if he be, 'tis a ver)- peaceful one
can infure his anger is dormant; or, ftould he
!

I

fecm to roufe, 'tis well killing him, and he wiH
fltcp
ke a top.
Cmgreve's Old Bachelor.

dorrit,

Erfe.]
I.

Cratn/illi.

;

r.iyhr's Preface

/ A p.tper cdnt.iining a

;/.

f.ir

ney by oics, frr eras, which is mentioned in doom/day-Uok.
Camd.n.

He may be Joaad to chains, to fliame, to death.
Ju(Hy tV impartial fates confpite,
Dooming that fon to be the 6rc

/

ieeper.']

warrant.

dcomjWay and
book made by" order of Wil[

liam the Conqueror, in which the eftates of the kingdom were regiftcred.
The Danes alfo broujht in a reckiniiig of mo.

So ftriaiy, butmuch more to pity incline. Mdion.
2. To condemn to any punilhment ; to

While proud Hippolitus ffiall mount his throne.

A

and

and to be a fcrvant to the nicaneft of God's fcr-

!itakrjff,m 1 RiiharrI III.
«.

[door

He that hath given the following afTiftances to
thee, defires to be even a doorkeeper in God's houfe,

my body's diomfday,

DooMSDAy-BOOK.

To judge.

n. f.

Porter ; one that keeps the entrance of
a houfe.

We privileg'd in funftiine may appear. Dryd r.
The day of fentence or condemnation.
is

Moxon,

^

Doorkeeper,

out of date until doomjday. Brown's f''utj;,Errcurs.
Our fouls, not yet prepai 'd for upper light.
Till dionfduy wander in the fliuJcs of nighv:
This only holiday of all the year.
I,

The

cafe.]

frame in which the door is incloied.
The making of frames for d:,ircafes, is the fram.

ment ;

All-fouls day

Of fuch another fon.

Dryden's Dvfrefnty, Preface,

Next DooR to. Approaching to; near
to; bordering upon.

7.

.

Litters thick befii'gc the doner's gate,

Ann begging lords and teeming ladies wait
The promis'd <iole.
Dryden't Juvenal.

Imputable;

fault lies wholly at ny door.

Drydtn's Iliad,

Chaucer.

corrupted from Jo little: faineant.

At the T)OOs. of any one.
chargeable upon him.

The ftate to which one is deftined.

5.

6.

Ther as this Emcly had her playeing.

tively.

To fervilc duties, thou woulJ'ft fear no more;

And homely houfehold talk, fliail be her doom,

Was cvln joynant to the garden-wall,

4.

now.

With a hsaSi vo'xe and funercilieus brow.

By day the web and loom.

Wherein the knightes were in prifon,

3.

;

Revoke thy i/tam,
thou doft evil.

Hamrxnd,

0;//e/"DooR, or DcoRs. No more to
be found quite gone ; fairly fent away.
Should he, who was tliy lord, coni»and thet

5.

Or whilft I can vent chmaur from my throat,

T he grtte tourc, that was fo thicke and Irong,

!

The indifpenfabic nccelTity of fincere obedience,
(huts the doer a^ainft all temptations t. carnal fe-

Search Windibr Cattle, eives, within and out
Strew good luck, ouphes, on every facrcd room.
That it may ftand till the perpetual d'^cm. Stak.
3. Condemnation; judicial fentence.

I'll tell thee

Drydm.

avenue; means of approach.

curity.

Locke.

Which of the caftle was the c\iit( limgear,

very loth to promote.

year.

4. Paffage ;

The great and final judgment.

2.

Do'njon. n.f. [now corrupted to i//.'«ffa«,

t

;

I

Ht.a kinJ of interjeSion. The word by
which a wager is concluded when a
wager is offered, be that accepts it fays
Jont,

Father of mercy and grace

3.

Mill'.n.

^yhcrcof wht)fo did eat, eftfoons did know
O mournful memory
That tree, through one man's fault, hath ^sm us

1.

_

To Satan, firft in fin, his doom applied.

Don E. fart.

triflor ;

_

Doom. n.f. [bom, Saxon; doem, Latin.]

Never did fteeple carry douWe trier
His is the JcKath'tj and mine the cure. Clefivelavd.

all to dye.

to

I

Coin-ell.

Both gocd and evil :

;

li

The gate of a houfe
to yield entrance.

;

With this radius he is fjid to ftrike and kill his

that which open'

Door is ufed of houfes,

and gatcj of cities or publick buildings
except in the licence of poetry.

;

prey, for wliicli he lies, as

In the fice, a dcor

For man and bea.l.
Milrm's Paradife L-Jl.
To the fame end men fev'ral paths may tread,
As many dmri into one temple lead.
Dtntam.

were, di.rm.wf, till it
Gre-ui's Mufaum.

If a lion were the coat of Judah, yet were
It
not a liorr rampant, but rather couchant and dor.
mani.
Brown.

All the ciftle quaked from the ground.
And every door of free-will open flew. Fairy ^een.

Conliiv'd; and rf provilions laid in large.

it

fwims Uithin his reach.
2. In a lleeping pollure.

3.

Private ; not pnblick.
There were other dormant mufters of foldiers
throughjut all parts of the realm, that were put
in teaJincfs, but not drawn together.

Bacon's ffar -with Spain,

4. Concealed;

y

DOR

DOT

c»fions._

5.

Old dormant windows muil confefs
their glimmering rpr£laclcs,
Struck with the fpl'cndjr of her face,

mentioning c"he dofi.
2.

dt,jc

3.

The places whcix; liead bodies a.-e buried, arc in

can

an ignoramus

tell

in

age has impaired his intelkas ; a man

power and

in his fecond childhood, called in
provinces a tivichild.

A

To drav» off his iaft dregs of life.

4.

'

Thtught.

while yet ourfclves have a confiderablci/i/ioi
what
Blak« th-m fo.
Gra»vilh,
5. It is often ufed of the ntmofl: quantity
of ftrongliqoor that a man can fwallow.
He has his dojii ; that is, he can carry

drowfy as dirmUt, unlets they are roufed.

off no more.
DoRN. n./. [from <i'cr», German, a thorn.]
The name of a fiib; perhaps the faine To Dose. -v. a.
1.

as the thornback..
C'jaa is ftored both with (heil-£/h,
as fcal-

lops a.Td iheathifini ; and fiat, as turbett, dirni,
and

A fpecies of linen

word I find only in Skir./ier^

Dorr. »./ [fo named probabfy from the

Ch^fe

:

his head is

fmai;, like that

of the comhis flioul-

dcr-piece, and the middle of his belly,

alfo black-

but juft under the wiog.fliells fpotted

with white!

,

UORSER.J A pannier

;

a bafkct or bag,

one of which hangs on either fide a
beaft
of burthen, for the reception of
things
of fmall bulk. It is corruptly
fpoken,
and perhaps written, dofel.

DoRSi FERous.l
DoRsi PAROi;s. j

adj. [dor/hm

French 1

A dorraitoryj a place to fleep in.

fondnefs;

tion,

and feems rather corrupted from

Forgive mc, that I do not dream on thee,
Becaufe thou fecft me date upon my
love.

IV.

Shaktjptare,
All I- .
.
All the beauties of the court befides
.

.

Arc mad in love, and dott upon your

perfon.
'

IWark thofe who dole on arbitrary
power,
And you (hall And 'era cither hot-brain'd

youth.

Or needy bankrupts.

Dryd^n

Would you fo dott upon your firft defirc,
As not to entertain a nobler fire

Do'tage. »./. [from dote.'\

.>

Drydlri'i Indian Einferor.

We dot, upon this prefcnt world, and the enjoy-

imbecility of

monrs of-.f j and 'tis not without pain
and fear,

delirioufnefs.

The foul in all hath one intelligence;
Though too much moifture in an infant's brain.
And too much drinefs in an old man's fenfe.

and rehiftancy, that we are torn from
them, as if
our hopes lay all within the compafs of

Then doth the full wjnt work, and idle litAnd this we childiftinefs and </<.ftf^<'call. Da-uUt.

What dud wo dote on, when 'tis man we love.

this life.

rv
!
U
death all
cliqucnt
1

Cannot the prints of outward things retain:

1 hold, that perfedl joy makes all
our parts
As joyful as our hearts
Oui fcnfcs tell us, if we pleafc not them.
Our love is but a dttagt, or a dream.
Sucklwr.
:

2.

to love to excefs..

Were fet on Heicford, whom they dot/d on.
And blefs'd, and grac'd.
Shakfff. Hinry

A fmall point or fpot made

Lofs of underftanding ;

To regard with exceflive

All their prayers and love

dots or fpots.

•

itire; dornitura, Latin ; dorloir,

Shakcfpeare,

To Dot b upon.

To Dot. a-, a. To mark with fpecks.
To Dot. 'v. «. [from the noun.] To make

fern ;

with great aUoflion towards

sidn.y.
I have long loved her, and
bellowed much on
her, followed her with a doting obfervance.

to mark any place in a writing.

their

and may be properly
nfed of the American frog, which
brings
forth young Irom her back.
Do'rti; R E. „. /. [contraaed from dormias

He was ftrickcn

which (iiice is grown to fuch a doting love,
that 1 was fain to get this place
fometimes to re-

upon

do/ui-,

jot, a point.]

or /«/«, Latin.] Hav-

fancies.

To be in love to extremity.

ftnfitnan,

from

mind ;

grow

a witch,

inc,

German, tie luhiie of an
egg; and interpreted by him a grume
of pus.
It has now no fuch fignifica-

and /,ro,

,

AdJifon^s Spc^atort
2.

Y\/-^^r*
UOT.
„./. [This is derived by 'Sinner,

.

Oiyd.n's ^ne'iJ.

.J

and fills the country witH extravagant

Addifon\ Cato.

ing the property of bearing or
bringing
forth on the back.
It is ufed of plantl
that have the feeds on the back
of
leaves

wu

Of kind condoling cares, and friendly forrow.'

I

tell

tire in freely.

a dof/.

downy hair.

has made you dott, and vainly

When an old woman begins to Jctc, and
ch-trgeable to a parift, (he is turned
intj

Dost, [the fecond perfon of <jfc.]
Why then d:^ treat me with rebukes, Infteid

Grnu's Mufaim.

Dorset.. 7 »./. [from dfcr/i^, the back.]

I iif.e

Of arms ima^in'd in your lonely cell

in a ludicrous fenfe.

medicaments as bafilicon, with pracipitate,

H.s wing-fliells, legs, and the end of
his tail,
which IS long and flat-pointed, of a light
chcftBuf
bis breall, efpecially, covered with a

ShaMp. Comedy of Errmrs.
upon the liars, and tlify ihall date
a fword IS upon her mighty men, and
tht-y (hall be
IS

Go, be the tcmpje and the gods your care;.
Permit to men the thought of peace and
war.

Her complaints put me upon drefling with fuch

Brcwn's Vulgar Errturt.

my fon.

A fttwd

I

fore.

A kind of fly-

mon beetle: this, and his eyes, bl-ck:

Unlcfs the fear of death make me do'i,

Di-rbjm'i PLy/to-Tteoh^.

:

To have the intellcft impaired by age
or paflion ; to be delirious.
I fee

Do'ssiL. It./, [corrupted fromdcrjel, foraething laid upon the part.]
A pledget
a nodule or lump of lint to be laid
on a

This

The dtrr or hedge-chafer's chief marks are

I.

To proportion a medicine properly to
the patient or difcafe.
Plants ItUom ufed in medicine, being efleemed
poifonous, if sorre^W, and exafily
Jsfed, may

to any man

radeter,

French.]

I

.

cloth ufed in Scotland for the table..

%

Dia.

To give phyfick, or any thing naufeous,

2.

To DORR. -v. a. [ter, ftupid, Teutonick.]

gimpcanous, or flieath- winged, as beetles and rforn.

The

aft of giving a dowry or portion.

prove powerful medicines.

Do'rnick. »./ [ofDecrnick in Flanders,

PrK^.

Dota'tion. n. f. [dolatio, Lalin.]
To DOTE. 1/. n. [doun, Dutch
;

Quantity.
VVe pity or laugh at thofe fatuous extravsgants,

ing infi-a, remarkable for flying with
a
loud noifc;
Some infefls
with four wings, as all the va-

^airy S^eett,

The nckly dotard Wfants a wife.

Ladicroufly.

Married h'ra puntSual Ji^ of wives,
Is cuckolded, and breaks, or thrives.
HuJibrai,

eMa/^.]
finali animal which paffes a
large part of the winter in fieep.
Come, WB »M fleep, and are mere Jtrmice flics,
A little lefs iJian dead t mort dulnel's bangs
On us than on the moon. Ben JinWi C-.talm.
After rliey have lain a little whiici they grow as

fail,-

A:-.d that weak old hath left thee
nothing wife,
Elfc never ihould thy judgment
be fo frail.

The world, but he has done his doe;

Do'rmobse. ». / [tiormh, to fleep, and

poife which he makes.]

Seems that through many years thy wits thee

No fooner does he peep into

j^ylijTt's Pjrerg'.n^

fome

Dotard, faid he, let be thy deep advife.

As much ofany thing as falls to a man's
lot.

A man whofe-

Athuthmeti.

you give him, be fliali readily take it down.

as

Latin called ctemireria, and in Englilh darm'mr'us.

To deafen or ilupify with noife.

Car(i'i Ov:J.

Do'tard. »./ [from dote]

Smth.

A burial place.

where firft made.]

An exii'd prince, and on a (hakin^ throne.
Or rifk my patron's fubjeits, or my own

place that he has a wit and underftandirg above
all tlie world, I dare undertake that, as fiilfomr.
a

Piiff't Dtnciad.

I he

Shall I, of one poor dotal town poffeft.

Any thing naufeous.
If you

her por-

My people thin, my wretched country wafte.

S>!. iHcy.

DrycUn^s VW^iK
In a vehement pain of the head lie prefcabed
the juice of the thapfia in warm v.ater, without

for a room with many beds.
Roomi that have thorough lights are left for entertiunment, and thofe thac have windows oh one
lidc for ^rmltorut.
Mwlirur.
Naked mourns the Jarmtiry wall.
And Jones and Boyle's united labanrs fall.

compriled in

tion.

taken

And added fury to the ftrength it brought.

ClcavJarct.

Coil'ur on

is

her portion j

The too vig'rous dcfe too fiercely wrought.

Do R MiTOH y. a.yr \tlormitorium, Laxin.]
I. A place to fleep in: ufed commonly

3.

as

at one time.

Her beams:

;

Bacon.

DoSE. »./. [Ji'fflf.]
I. So much of any medicine

Leaning ; not pcpendicnlar.

Po th" office of a burn^nt;-£lafs.

Do'tal. eiJj. [do/a/is, Latin.] Relating tothe portion of a woman
conftituting

(hewed us along the one fide fevcnteen cells,. very

""f-

Sivijt.

O X

tJ

He led us XO a pallery like a dtrture, wljere he

4. Concealed ; not divulged.
It would be prudent to rEl'erve thefc pri»IIfgei
donnarUy never £0 be produtsd but upon great oc-

Exceflive fondnefs.
your head my fury does not turn.
Thank that fond dstegt which fj much you fcorn
It on

Dry Jtn.

1

1

,
!

Burnet,

you only prove

Prior.

Do't ED adj. [from the verb.]
Not ufed.

Stupid.
^

His frnfelefs fpcech and doted
ignorance
prince had marked well.

i .10

Do'ter. »./ [from dote.]
I.

Sfenfer

One whofe underflanding i* Impaired
by years ; a dotard.

WhM

D O U

D O U

D O U

Whit fliouU a bald fellow do with a comb, o
ilamb iitfr with a pi[X| or a blind mail with a

He would fay untrtlths, and be ever icniU

r th' pfefcnc*

Sbateffcart'i Henry VIII.
Fifty thoufand could keep rank, that were not

A man fondly, weakly, and exceffively

2,

in love.

of double hcurt,

If in black my lady's brow be declct.

Shahfffurf.

Our Jclert upon red and white are inceliantly
peijlcxed by the inccrtiinty both of the conti.
nuance of their miftrelt'tkindncrs, and of the laftB:)le.
ing of her beauty.

Do't N c L V adv. [ from doting.] Fondly
.

by excefftve fondnefs.
That he, to wedlock dat'mgly betray'd.
Should hope in this lewd town to find a maid
Drfden'i Juvenal.
\

Do'ttard. »./. This word feems to llgnify a tree kept low by cutting.
For great trees, we fee almoft all overgrown
trees in church-yards, or near ancient buildings,
and the like, are pollads and dctlards, and not

Baron.

Do'tterjl. «./ [from deu."] The name
of a bird that miinicks geftures.
We fee howready apes and monkeys are to
Imitate all motions of man ; and in catching ot
dMtrih, we fee how the foolifli bird playeth the
Baceit.

ape in gefttres.

DO'UBLE. adj. [douhh, French; duplex,
Latin ; duple, Erfe.]

Two of a fort; one correfponding to

1.

the other ; in pairs.
All things are douhlt one againft another, and
he hath made nothing impcrfcrt. Ecchs. ilii. 24.

Twice as much; containing the fame

2.

quantity repeated. It is fometimes ufed
with to, and fometimes without.
Great hmours are great burthens; butonwh^m
They arc cart with envy, he doth bear two loads
His cares mud ftill be dsuble'to his joys.
Ben "Jcrfott's Catatirre.
In any dignity.
This fum of forty thoufaiid pounds is almoA
ful%cienc.
is
what
JsMe to
Stvift^s Drap'ier^s Letttrs.

Having one added to another; having
more than one in the fame order or pa-

3.

rallel.
It

is

a turiofity alfo to

make flowers tliulile,

which i« effefted by often removing them into
new earth ; as, on the contrary part, {ioublc flow,

exa, by ncgle^ing, and not removing, prove fingle.

Ba otrs Natural IJiJl'^ry.
1

Dryden'i Sfanijh Friar.

Twofold ^ of two kinds.

4.

Thus curfed fteel, and more accurfcd gold.
Gave mil<:hief birth, and made that mifchief bold,

And douhlt death did wrctchel man invade.
By Seel aflaulted, and by gold betray'd.
Drydelj^l Ovid.

No ftar appears to lend his f/ienily light;
Carkneft and tcmpcft make a dtubie night.
Drydrn.
5.

theeffeifl or influence ;
,

ly, the other in fecret.

Ves, I'll to the royal bed.

Where firft the itiyfieries of our love were \(!i.ti,
Anii-dsulic-du it with imperial crimfon.

Dryden and Lee,

Double-founted.

official

fount.]

and

;

lallly

to intimate to

the

ordinary, that if he neither performs the thing enjoined, nor appears
at the day alligned, he himfelf will proceed to perform the juilice required.
faid

becaufe it is molt commonly
made againft both the judge, and him

at whofe petition juftice is delayed.

Co-well

n^t.

All things being double-handed, and having tile
appearances both of truth and falfehood, where our
aftefliona have engaged us, we attend only to the
former.
Chnvilic's Scefju,

Double-headed, adj. [double and head. ]
Having the flowers growing one to another.

The double rich fcarlet nonfuch is a large douile-leadtd flower, of tlic richelt fcarlet colour.
Mortimer.

To Double-lock. v. a. [doable and loci.]

To fhoot the lock tvvice ; to faften with
double fecurity.
He immediately double-hched his door, and fat
down carefully to reading and comparing both his
orders,

_

nerally for doubly, two ways ; as, ditthletdged, having an edge on each fide :

or

number or quantity ;

as,

for twice the

Tatlcr,

Double-minded, adj. [from i/wi/? and
mind.]

Unfettled ; undetermined.

A double-minded man is un.'iaotc in all his ways.
Jan.es,

Double-shining. adj. [double and_^;«<?.]
Shining with double lullre.

Sivift

_

Double is much ufed in compofition, ge-

He was
Among the reft that there did take delight
To fee the fports oi dyubk-Jhining day.
Siilney.

Double-tongued,

Double-biting, adj. [dauble and bite.']
Biting or cutting on either fide.
But mod their looks on the black monarch
bend,

His riling mufclcs and his brawn commend j
His double-biting ax, and beamy fpear,
Dryden^S'Fables.

adj.

[double and

Having two rows of but-

Others you fee, when all the town's afloat,
Wrapt in th' embraces of a kerfey coat,
Or djuile-buttort'd frieie.
Cay's Trivia.

Double-dealer. B.y! [double s.nd dealer.]

A deceitful, fubtle, infidious fel-

low ; one who afts two parts at the fame
time ; one who fays one thing and thinks
another.
D'juble-dealers may pafs mnfterfor a while; but
all parties wa(h

their hands of them in the cmiclu-

L'EJirang,:

Artifice ;

wicked cunning

dilfimulation ;
;

Dtyd-x's yiigil.

To Do'uBLE. f. a. [from the adjeftive.]
1. To enl.irge any quantity by addition
of the fame quantity.
Humour doth dmble vjice anJ echo
The numbers of the fear'd.
Sbaleff. Henry IV.
Pay him fix thoufand, and deface the bond
;
Diuble fix thoufand, and then treble that. Sbak,
Our fo-; s too proud the weaker to all'ail,
Or doubles his diftionoor if he fail.
Drydcn.
This power of repeating or d'ubling any idea we
have of any dilhnc;-, and adJing it to the former,
as often as we will, without being ever able to
come to any (lop or ftint, is that which gives us
the idea of immenfiry.
Locke,
This vvui only the value of the filvcr: there
was befiJcs a trnth p.irt of that number of ta.
lents of gold, which, if g->ld was reckoned in a
decuple proportion, will jull double the fum.

low or

the aftion of one thing

^rbuthmt on Coins.
2.

To contain twice the quantity.
Thus reinforc'd againft the advcjfc fleet.
Still doubling ours,

gold.

; ou

and

double

I Tim.
For much (he fear'd the Tyrians double-tongu'd.
And knew the town to Juno's care belong'd.

with the profeffion of another.
Thou ihalt not be the worfe for me ; there's

— But that

[

The deacons mult be grave, t\ox. double-tongued,
not given to much wiiiC, not greedy of filthy lui;re.

Each alking a gigantick force to rear.

buttoned,']

adj.

Deceitful; giving contrary accounts of the fame thing.

tongue.]

double-died, twice died.

DouBLE-EUTTONED.

Milton

Having two hands.

am not fo old in proportion to them as I for-

merly was, which I can prove by arithmctick ;
for then 1 was double their age, which now I am

and

double

Double-handed, adj. [double and band. ]

Double. «<^". Twice over.
I

[

Having two fources.

Jordan, true limit eallward.

And this feems to be termed a doublequarrel,

adj.

Here the double-jounted llream
'

him to appear before him or his

to cite

itig ]

Not ufed.
having the power of two.
The magnifico is much belov'd,
And hath in his effert a voice potential,
Sbakrfftaie's Othe'h.
As diuklr ai the duke's.
afting two parts, one open7. Deceitful
;

caufe ecclefiaftical.
The effefl is, that
the archbifhop dire£ls his letters, under
the authcntical feal, to all clerks of his
province, commanding them to admonifh the faid ordinary within nine days
to do the juftice required, or otherwife

Double-dealing, n./. [double and deal-

Da-viet.

Having twice

by any clerk or other to the archbifliop
of the province, againft an inferiour or-t
dinary, for delaying juftice in fome

Ffie Ptetri.

To die twice over.

Double QjJARREi,, is a complaint made

fion.

Two in number.
And if one power did not both fee and hear,
Our iightt and founds would always dmhlt be.

6.

Co^velt.

the plaintiff.

Brccrne^t f^itm of

double-dealing.

To Double- DIE. v. a, [double tsA dit.\

defendant alleges for himfelf two feveral matters
in bar of the aftion, whereof either ii
futficient to effeft his dcfire in debarring

tons.

met a rorerend, fat, old gouty friar,

With a paunch fwolnJb high, his diuhle chin
Might rell upon 't.

Ctrcit. xii. 33.

Is that in which the

tin.]

And tbetefuie is Aie barn to make black tair.

trees at their full height.

1

DouBi E-PL£A. «./ [duplex p/acilum, La-

It mourns that painting and ufurping hair
Should raviih Jata-i with a fatl'i: afpcit

I

':

Both in his words and m'-aning.

Burion.

looklng-f Ufs ?

me- knefs with piety, and prudi-nce wi'.h diflin(«this laft union was necclfjry for the goodlation
ncfs yii Ulyfies; for, without that, his dilfimulation might have degenerated into wickednefs and

!

brave Rupert leads the way.

Dry den.
it would be double-dealing, Sir, I would

could make it another.

Shayjfeare" s Ttotlfih Nigl I.

Our poets have joined together fuch qualities as
ate by nature

mod compatible; valour with anger,

3.

To repeat

to add.
He faw proud Arcite and fierce Pabmon
In mortal battle d'.ubling blow on blow
Like lightning flam'd their falidaans to and fro.
;

Vrydet,
4.

To

i

D O U

D O U

To add one to another in the fame order

4.

To fold.

5.

coin containing the value of two

is

our own,

we can but doublt

if

t>rydn.

To increafe to fiice the quantity.

I.

the number of men dmhii.

1.

Burnetts theory,

in play.

Throw i^gjpt's by, and offer in the flead,
Oft'er

t--uch,ng t!,e time or the fall

—

tiie ciown on

Berenice's heid :
I aiD refolv'd to double till I win.

llKUr.
,.
r'. no man,
Let
whilo-he lives here in the world,
whether there is .ny hell or
no, and thereupon Inc fo, as rablclutelv there
were none. South.
!"''" '' "PP"'' '»
" n>Mi.'{rous
.

To turn back, or wind in running.

Under the line the fun tiofTcth the line, a.nd
makcth twofummers and two winters; but in the
fkirts of the torrid

jone it diuileihtni goeth batk

again, and fo maketlu)ne long fummer.

Bacsm's Natural Hiftorj.

Who knows which way (he points ?

Doubt,ng things EO ill, often
hurt, more
1 han to be (ure they do.

!

4.

Sivifi,

To play tricks

Shakeff. CymbeTtne.

Admitting motion, this I urge to
Invalid, that which thee to
doubt

mg fenfes.

to ufe Heights.

;

Do'uBLE. 11./.
1
Twice the quantity or number.

Solyman faid he had hitherto
divers nations, and always

.

ae doubled not aow il(o.

If the thief be found, let him pay dtuhre. Exid.
In all the four great years of mortality above
mentioned, I do not find that any week the plague
increafed to the dnbU of the precedent wftk
five time;.

«.

Grauni', Mwality.
-

4.

H.s flying life is chas'd l>y rav'ning pains.

Blaekmort,

J.

a Aift ; an artifice.

Addifou.

*

6.

Do'u BLER. »./ [from double.-]

He that

doubles any thing.

Do'vBLET. n.f. [ftom deai/t.]
t. The inner garment of a
man; thewailldouble.

What a pretty thing a man is, when he gothi. wit !

And though not fwotd yet cudgel proof.
»he doublet and breeches of hi. great

in

iiai

Hudibrau

grandfather.

yldJifcn en It ah.

J
Iheydobutmimickantient
Wilts at beft,
.

,

A- apes our grandfires, in thei: i.ubUn

VOB. I.

Milian.
2.

3.

Ill handling the riisht ..f a » ir,
i am not willing
to intern-.ix matter i/oti' .•/:•,/ with that
'Ahich is

out

01 doubt ! for as in capital cnul-s, wherein but

one
man's life is in qurKlion, the evidence ought f)

-ireft.

P.*.

^•

be

cle:iri fo much more in a judgment
upon a war,
which is cipital to thoulands.
Bium.

Dan!el.

To hcfuate ; to be in fufpenfe
; to waver undetermined.

\n

doubtful itks, reafon ftill determines foi the
fafer fide ; elpeclally if the cafe be njt
only d<.-'bt.

fkl. but all J highly concerning, and the venture l,e
a f->ul, and an eternity.
Siutb.

to incenfe

ax,

.

1.

Tiicmctes firif, 'tis </c»*f^a/ whether hit'

J)'yd,n.

4.

To fear; to fufpeft.

Whi: iicav'n'b high Ljru had p ^w'tiuiieil, Jiii/tm.
New cojnf'ls to d-bate
What tt'onij/'i.^ imy enlje.
Mi.'ton,

Milton', Paradife L.I!.

5.

He did ordain the interdifls and prohibitions
hU ** ^"^ '° "''" '"'""'= "' ftrangers,

which at that time was freijuent, doubting
novelties
and commixture of manners.
Bacon.

You that will be lefs fearful th.in difcreet.

With doubtful feet, and wavering rrfolution,
I come, (till dreading ihy difpIcaCurc, Samfcn.

Milton.

Thii waj at fir(! refolved
If we were wife, againfl fo great a foe

That love the fundamental part of ft«te.
More than youjioubt the change of it, prefer

A Boble life before a long.

Shakeff, Coriotaiiuu

Not lecure ; not without fufpicion.

Our manner li always to cait a Jo-lifi! and a
more iufpicit/u- eye towards that, over which we
kn-^w we have Icaft pcwci.
Hooker, D.dkation.
6. Not confident ; not without fear.
^

If they turn not back perverfe
;

But that I doubt.

Hazardous; of uncertain event.

We have fultair'd one day in doubtful Riht,

TohoJdquertionable; to think uncertain.
To think endangered.
He from the terror of this arm fo late
Doubled h;, empire.

J,

Or fo tiie Irojnn liefli.iy lequir'd,
Mov'd that the rain^iarti r.iig.it be broken down.

Dryden.

o- r\
Vb
Uovbt. 1,. a.
2.

That about which there is doubt, that
which is not yet determined or decided
;

*"^''
to have fufpicion.
The king did all his courage bend
.
,
Againft thofe four which now
before l,im were,
Doabtwg not who behind h^m doth

'

Anibignous ; not clear in its meaning :
as, a dcubiful expreflion.

obicure ; quellionable ; uncertain.

;

,

Dubious; not fettled in opinion.
Mcthinks I (hould know you, and know this man;
Yet I am doubtful.
Shakcjpeure, King Ltar.
Thus they their doubtful condiltations ended,

Milton,
tender blade, of grafs appear.
And buds that yet the blaft of Eurus
fear,
Stand at the door of life, and
doubt to clothe the

3.

hi.=fc«i.«and hofe,and leaves off

To fufpcft

..£,,.
At
firft the

:

.

1.

d-.ubt there

What fear we then, why doubt we

coat
fo called from being double
for
warmth, or becaufe it makes the drefs

.

uncertainty.

Do'uBTFUL. adj. [doubt an^ full]

of ill

of the w-irk.

Hu utmoft ire >

If you think well to carry this ai you
mar, the
douhlenej, of the benefit defends
the deceit from

.

to be apprchenfive

attend.

Rate of being double.

TL

Do'uBTER. n.f. [from </i!ai5/.] One who
entertains fcroples ; one who hangs in

.

DouBLENE^s. n.f. [from e/ou6k.] The

His doublet \iu of fturdy buff.

To every </oait your anfwer is the fame.
It fo fell out, and fo by chance it came.
Blarlmore.

7^

bread j

Thel- men are too vnrli acquaiiv.ed with the
chafe, to be flung off by any falfe fteps
or diuilei.
T\

6. Difficulty obje£tcd.

Baker on Learning.
rn..
,
_
" ""'"^^ fi"-* prqjefl, without any namej
I doub,
I
more than wiU be reduced into
praOice.

Through all his doublet, in the winding veins.
;

,

;

Shakcfftart.

apprehenfion of ill.

I delire to be picfcnt with
you now, and t»
change my voice j for I ftand in doubt of you.

.

Convulfions rack his nerves, and cares his

,

T1 o rtear

day and night, and (halt have
Deut,

To faucy dimbt, and fea s.
5. Sufpicion ;

Dryden.

are too many in the body

Man is frail,

.

of the Turks.

(halt fear

no aflurance of thy lite.
I *m bound in

had the viftory, .Jbereof
'

'^Onfment in his mind,
F„ .r,'
'''n",!' ^"?
tor
the late
flight his honour fuffer'd
there. OiJa^.
If there were no fault in
the title, I

A

A, trick

made war againft

fCnollei; JliJIory

above

Strong beer ; beer of twice the common
Arength.

forego°

P^,

And thy life (hall hang \n doubt before thee;
and thou

Milt.

Have I not manag'd my contrivance
weil.
To try your love, and make you
doubt ofmnt ?

Here '1 a pot of good double, neighbour : drink,
and fear not your man.
Sbakeffeart't Henry VI.
turn ufed to efcape purfuit,
3.

4.

Soinetimes with of in both the

3.

ii

Arkuihnot on Alimmit,

Scruple; perplexity; irrefolution.
Our Joubts are traitors.
And make us lofc, by fearing to attempt.
The good we oft might win.
Siaheffeare,
4. Uncertainty of condition.

fliew

mov'd.

it

and no dcubl but the animal

3.

fearing the worft.

Douii'hg and Curnin; like an hunted hare
Find out the meaning of her mind who ean. Dryd.
So keen thy hunters, and thy fcent fo ft ong,
Thy turns and dsuhl'mgi cannot fave thee long.

Locte.

*Tis paft a doubt,
All Bedlam or ParnafTus is let out.

Tilkljin.

Oan

we conclude upon Luther's
inftability, becauie .n a fingk notjon,
no way fundamental, an
enemy writes thit he'h^d fome doubting,
f Auerl.
2. I o queftion any event,

;

'"•

^

r l! T'a
"!i' l"
ioU)
to deride
hcl/ tl.ings.

are thereby got

more or lefs healthy, according to the air it lives

rfo^Ar

Drydrn's Tyrntimc Love.

3.

namely

both of man and an-

South,
it,

Quellion ; point uafettled.
Hippccratcs commends the flelh of the wild fow
above the tame

To quelllon; to be in uncertainty.
Ev:n ,n patters divin:, concerning
fo*. things,
we maj, la-.fujy d^bt and fuipcnd
our judgment,
mchnjni n, uher t, on- (ide or ether ; as.

To enlarge the ilake to twice the fum

%.

r
L
Thofe
who
Inve examined
rt..

2.

;

not have had time to fettle into douLt.

part dciibt in ail the doftrines they
piofefs.

And «f,„^/« feels his want in their increafe.
Prkr.
ro DOUfir. ^. „. ycubter,
French;
dubtto, Latm.]

'Tis chfcrved in particular nations, that within
the fpace of three hundred years, notwithllanding
all cafualties,

It could

A

'V. n.

;

Could

:

To Do'OBLE.

Uncertainty of mind
fufpenfe; undetermined Hate of opinion.
any dilficuity have been propofed, the rcfolution would have been as early as the
propofal

Born, Czlar like, to write and aft
great deeds.
Impatient to revenge his fatal /hot,
His right hand doubly to his left
fucceeds.
Dryd.
Haply at night he does with horror
ihun
widow'd daughter, or a dying fon
His neighbour's offspring he
to-morrow fes.

KnMn.

Now we have the Cape of Good Hope in fight,
the ttJde-wind

t.

In twice
the quantity ; to twice the
degree.
Young Hollis, on a mufe by Mars begot.

Sai!i';g a^iing the coaft, he djuhlcd the promontory of Carthage, yet famous for the ruins of that

"•

piftoles.

Do UBLY. aJtj. [from e/ouble.]

To pafs j-ound a headland.
proud city.

Todiftrufl; to hold fufpeaed.
To teach vain wits a fcience litHe known,
T' admire fuperior fcnfe, and doubt their ow:i.,

DOUBLO'N. „. / [French.] A Spanilh Doubt, fi.f. [from
the verb.]

He bough: her fermons, pfalms, and graces.
And dcjH.1! C'-ii!\ the ulel'ul places.
Pr'wr.
6.

4.

Thofe dmbleti on the fides of his tail
feem to
add ftrenjth to the mufdes which
move the tail

1 hou (halt iouhU the curtain in the tabernacle.
.

Two; a pair.

2.

or parallel.

D O U

Cuntending, an
7.

!

C) douiiful\th:it might fall.

Mi/t,
'

}lfi/i,

Partaking different qualities.

4 O

Lookt

Say, will the falcon, floopiag from above,
Smit with her varying plumage, fpare the devi f

Dewncift anJ Jamp, yet iiich wlirrein tppcir'd
Si>me j^l'm.'re of jc^y, which on h.\ cuunc'iiance cafV
itike riablrfkt hue.

Dubioufly ; irrefolutcly.
Ambiguoufly ; with uncertainty

1.

Pcft.

Not li.ilf 10 fwiftly the fierce eagle moves.

Knowing how i<uhifiti!^ all allegories may be
coai^rtiedi and (hisb-ioicot tiijno being a continual

sjrgory, 1 have thotiglitgood :o JiftO«r the g reintention.

iy»/'i/rr.

Her alterM niind, and alienated carr.
Dubioufncl's ;

\.

iullability of

iufpeiile ;

their hufbands.

have heie a dilh of dtv€S, that I will beftow
upon your worlhip.
Sytakiff. Mirch. tfVinkc.

'I'bough A»^r/i./«fi or unceitiinly feems to be a

Do'vecoT. «./

[</ea'«

A fmall

and CO/.]

tbingt themfelvc!,

ll'mt:.

Ambiguity ; uncertainty of meaning.

Do'v E T d

Hazard ; uncertainty of event or con-

I

And therefore 'tis no wonder if we fee
Thiy doat on dotmliet and deformity.

U EJi range.

Do'wDY. at/;.

Dryd.

Bu: '.Mil the dc-vibouft obftinately flood.

Cay.

DO'WER. 7 , r
,,
DO'WERY. I""-^ [douaire, French.]
,

fkli out.

1.

DoucH. »./. [h^h. Sax. dergi, Dutch.]
The pafteofbread, or pies, yet unbaked.

1.

doubting manner ; dubioufly ;

In a
without

confidence.
fear, mutt needs do hurt, if imagination have any

power at al) ; for a man reprcfcnteth that oftener
that he tcareth, than the contrary. Sjccn'i A'. Hift.

Do'uBTi, ESS.

My caie is DotrcH.

2.

My aiFair has

[from douit."]
Free
from fear ; void of apprehenfion of dan-

miicarrifd ; my undertaking has never
come to maturity.

ger.

My tall is dough, but I'll in among the reft ;
Out of hope of all, but my Iharc of the fcili. Sbak.

aJ/.

t'retty child, fleep duikiUft ard fecure.

That Hubert, for th« wealih of all the world,
Will roc offend thee.

All their dcfires, dclcrts, or expeftatiuns the
Conqueror had no other means to fatisfy, but b)
the cllates of fuch a& had appeared open enemies to
him, and libuhtltjt many innocent perfnns fulfcred
llaJe't C'.rtintttt Lav:.
in this kind.
V'.uhtlrji many men are Anally loft, who yet have
flu men's (uii to anfvver for but tlieir own.
South,
Mnuntaina have been dtiihtleft much higher than
they are at prcfent : the rains have wilhed away
the foil, that has left the veins of ftones (hooting
•ut of them.
ffoMvard.
great laud and praifc were
Dtnii'/fi, oh gucA
I

4.

What fpreading virtue, what a fparkiing fire.

How great, how plentiful, how rich a dmo'r,

foft.

Doft thou within this dying flelh infpiie

Do'wERED.

For when, through taftelefs flat humility,

Deviling how that doughty tournament
With greatcrt honour he achievcn might.

in burlefque.

i>hakfl:f>eart,

DoVla.s. n.f.

covered with

diving,

thick

Dmvlm, filthy dowlat ; 1 have given them away

and their feathers fo flippery that water

f lumaiic,
cannot moillen them.

DOVE. n. / [palumius

Ray.
;

diivo, old Tcu-

;

A

A> yoaiiGtUdy e'er her tcllows (hows.
Sbti'Jfuri'i Rifn ttdjiliti.

a.

[

iiuir,

the water.

lamb, daub, German.]
tonick
wild pigeon.
So fliews a fnowy drvt trooping with crows,

Shaktfftarc.

but probably
it is a cant word formed from the found.]
To put over head fuddenly in the water.
To Douse. 'J. 11. To fall fuddenly into,
-v.

It is

no jcrting, trivial matter.

To Iwing

i'

th' air, or douft in water.

A widow witb a joiaiure.

DewN. n.f. [duun, Daaifli.]
1

Soft feathers.
Virtue is the roughert way
;
But proves at night a bed of dotvt.

Witto:

Leave, leave, fair bride
your folitary bed,
No more (hall you return to it alone
nurfeth
fadncfs
It
:
and your body's print,
Like to a grave, the yieldingyowji doth dint.
!

Dcnntt

We tumble on our Jov>n, and court the Uefling
Of a (hort minute's (lumber.

Der.ham't Sefbf,

A tender weakly conftitution is very much
owing to the ufe ot dnoH beds.
Lockt,
2. Any thing that foothes or mollifies.
Thcu b.lom lo.''tnofs doivn of all my cares
I could recline my thoughts upon this breaft
To a forgetfulnels of aU my griefs,
'
Antl vet be happy.
Siuitern's Oncnokc.
!

IJudibra:,

Do'wACER. n.f. [douairiert, French.]
I .

of
Shaktjfan.

them.

She fmii'd to fee the doughy hero flain

To DOUSE,

A coarfe kind of linen.

to bakers wives, and they have made boulters

Stillirgflctt

;

I,

d/iv'ri.-J'i daughter, king, thrown to my
chance,
Is queen of us, and ours, and our fair France.

F. £^1/.

;

for

Shake/frare't King Lur,

I'hy

now feldom ufed but ironically, or

the unbaked and doughy youth of
colour.

.'

ing a fortune ; unportioned.

Such rcrtlcfs paiTion did all night torment

The flatt'ning courage of that fairy knight.

But, at her fmile, the beau rcviv'd again. Pcfe.
Jtouct'T. n.j', [</fl«rff^, French ] A cufurd. This word 1 find only in Skinner, Do'uGHY. adj. [from dough.l Unfound
unhardeiied.
foft
and in A n/noorth.
Your fon was mifled with a fnipt taffata fellow
Do'ocKEH. n.f. [colymbui ; from To </i!»<-.f
made all
corrupted from To tiuck.'\
A bird that there, whufc villanuus faffron woulda have
nation in his

bly cpntnrrocd

Por-

Do'wERLESs. «4). [from deiutr.] Want-

If this </c;»Wfyhirtorian hath any honour or con-

The colymbi, or dtuchn, or loons, arc admira-

D,niitt%

oath.

Take her, or leave her

Brave; noble; illuftrious ; eminent.
Ufed of men and things.

'1 ftain'd my hofpitable hearth with blood. Pufc'fOd.

!

r/oTtrr. ]

Will you with tliofe infiimities Ihe owes,
new adapted to our hate,
Dower'd with our curfe, and llrarger'd with out

virtue, Dutch.]

It is

[from

V'nfrien.'led,

Do'uGHTY. adj. [bohTi3, Saxonj deught,

2.

adj.

tioned ; fupplicd with a portion.

Dinne.

fcicnce left, ne ought to beg pardon.

dips in the water.

Endowment ; gift.

Unfiniihed ; not hardened to perfedlion ;

m'nc.
If, after focial rites and gifts beflow'd,

The gifts of a hufband for a wife.
will give according as you fliall fay unto me ; but
give mc the damfel to wife.
Gen. xxxiv. ii»

In do:'ghhak'd men f.)me harmltlTiicfs we fee,
'Tis but his phlegm that's virtuous, and not he.

1.

Drydn.

Alk me never fo much diivery and gift, and I

1

out qucftion i unqueftionably.
J^buUlefs he would have made a noble knight. Sb*

That which the wife bringeth to her
hufband in marriage.

\

3.

Doughb.a'ked. adj. [dough znd bahJ.]

^haUf^are^sKing J(;bn.

am dnbtlejti 1 can purge
M\feif of many I am charg'd withal. Shak. H. IV.
Do'uBTiEss. aJ'v. Without doubt ; with-

-,

His only daughter in a ftranger's pow'r ;
For very want, he could not pay a Jvtv'r.
Pcfic.
Rich, though depriv'd of all her little ftore,
For who can fcize fair virtue's better Jow'r f
Mtlmiuth.
2. That which the widow poflefFes.
His patrimonial territories of Flanders were in
dfu\r to his mother-in-law.
Baccn's Henry
II,

Expefling thence to gain immortal praife,
Yrur knuckles try, and let your finews know
Their power to kneed, and gi\e the form to dmgk.
King.

^ hatfoevcr a man imagineth Jouht'mgfyy or with

.

His wife brought in dow'r Cilicia's crown.

Some of their dcugb was left upon their hand:^,
For want of fouh, and fo they made Egyptians. Cry.
You that from pliant parte would fabricka raife,

Do'uBTi NCI.Y. /li/i'. [from </oa^/.]

-

And in herfelf a greater Aif'r alone.

When the gods muulded up the parte of man.

dition.

Diydt*,

Awkward.

No houfcwil'ery the dcftedy creature knew;
To fum up all, her tongue confcfs'd the flircw.

A form

L . n./. [dove and tail. ]

of joining two bodies together, where
that which is inferteJ has the form of a
wedge reverfeJ, and therefore cannot

tbctetore the anfwerer, on bis fide, maketi it hi>
L^ke.
play to dittinguifh as much us he can.
Moll of hii phiiofophy is in broken fentcnccs,

3.

Laura, to his lady, was but a kitchen wench
j
Dido, a dnvjy ; Cleopatra, a gipfy ; Helen and
Hero, flidingsand harlots. Shak. R^mn erd yulict.
The bedlam train of lovers ufe
T' inhance the value, and the faults cxcufe ;

A

»-«Lk in ilie davebaufe,

Bakrr cm Ltiini.

inelegant woman.

ahatrffcarc'i Ccr'alanui.

•

Do'vEHCusE. n.f. [dcv4 and iouje.]

hood in our miiidi, \ettheii' is no fuib inediurn in

delivered with much dttubrfultuj!,

And widow to prince Arthur. Hhakcfp. lien. VIII.
.^n awkward, ill-dreffed,

Do'wDv. «./.

Like an eagle in a dtAjubt, 1
Hutler'd your Volfciar.s ia Corioii

houfe for pigeons.
J he hawk lets up for protcQor, and makes ha-

In arguing, the opp'mcr.t utos as comprch-'iilivc
and equivocal terms as he can, to i!i\n[\'r hi> id%erfary in the Jtuhtfulmfs of' bis expreHion*; and

Shall be call'd queen ; but princefs dvwagtr.

building in which pigeons axe bred and
kept.

medium bi-'twccn certain tiutb aiid crrtiin talfe

a.

Carliarinc no more

1

.^lone 1 did it.

opinion.

Addijoi.

The title given to ladies who furviv«

2.

A pigeon.

z,

OryJtn.

'iJxK>m Jouhlful.\

Ptfl.

divri.

Nor did the gooil fi iouhtfrUy declare

Po'UBTF VI, N fc'.b. n. J.

conftitution.

When through the fkies he drives the trembling

of

meaning.

I-!

5he liogerr my dcfires.
Like to a llepdame or a d-.tiragrr,
Long wintering on a young man's revenue. Shai.
Widows have a greater intcrtft in property than
either maids or wives ; fo that it i^ as unnatural
for a dvicagtr as a freeholder to be an enemy to our

,

N.it \m\! fo fwift tlie trembling dcjes can fly,
When the fierce eagle cleaves the liquid (kyj

Mtlfpti.

Do'uBTFUi.LY. adv. [from <«'fl«^{/«/.]
2.

DOW

DOW

DO V

3.

Soft

'

DOW

DOW

J. Soft wool, or tender hair.
I love

my hufl>artd ft!II

%''•''•.

But love him ai he was when youthful grlce,
And the firft dvam, bt n to fiiade his face. Dryd.

7.

[anfwering to »/.]

The foft fibres of pUnts which wing the

I

ten,

flirink not,

DOWN. H.f. [bun. Saxon Jane, Erfe,'^a
hill.]
A large open plain properly a

Down. [Toga.]

flat on

the top of an hill.
On the Jcivm we fee, near Wilton fair,
haftrn'd hare from greedy greyhound go. Sidttcj.
Lord of much riches which the ufc renowns
Seven tlwu&nd broad-taiPd flietp grai'd on his

will diyiun ;

To be digefted

1

That doth enrich thofc d'.ium is worth a thought.

down

DowK. aa-v. Not up.
1
On the ground from the height

1.

3.

Drydtm,

«

From former to latter times as, this
has been the prafUce Joivn from the
:

conqueft.
4.

H.-.» gr-ei the night, bu) >
nwon is d-^wr. ; I luie not liiard the clock,
Oil- g.,es d«wn at twelve.
Staiifp. Macitth.

—The
5.

To a total fubjeaion: ufed of men and
things.

What remains of the fuhje^, after the decoction, IS cntinued to be bolle.^
d'.vn, with the a-i

4iiionr,ffreiliw.tT,t«afapd

at,

^rkuib.cnMm.

». Into difgrace ; into declining reputa'^
tion.

He rtiar'd our dividrnd o' th' trown,

We had fo painfully preach'd d'.wn

;

And forc'd us, thau^h againft the grain,

fludlirai.
It has been Itill preached up,
but aftcd diywn ;
and dealt with as the eagle in th( fable
did with
that, by letting

he might daA it in pieces.
Scutb.
There it not a mare melancholy objeft

»t tall,

in th'

1

,

.

.

DrOWN3ITT1NC. n.f. [dom,n and
,

Why doll thou fay king Richard it dcpos'd

Dmne hit d'^n/M f

'

We

afar oft.

South.

Each dvwnf.il of a flood the mountain-,

p lur

Frnm th-ir rich bowels, rolj^ a Olvcrrtrcam.
3.

Dryd.

^/'''« cxx»ix. 2.

Do'wr.wARns. j""^'"' [ounepeapb. Sax.]
". Towards the centre.

Dellruftion of fabricks.
Not more aj'ialt the m«ront of renown.
When tyrant Nero burn'd iir imperial town,

As you lit't up the gUin-s, the drop will
in;enl
flower and flower, and at length rc,1,
being carried
rf«r«,...;r,n.y Its weight ai much
at upwards!,*
the jttrartinn.
-•

Shriek'd f >r the dnvnfal in a doleful cry.

For which their juiltlefs lords were doom'd to die

jv—
From a higher fituation to a lower.'

2.

Look ,y',-.c««Mr,/ on

Do , WNTALLEK.partUifiaia^j. [d'c<zt.« and
Ruined;

/a//.]
riii:

land

is

With lijjht from hence, fhines.

fallen.

Hills are

pleafint

Surn.: tJCo'vii:

Do'wNCvRED.

niij. [rtfcxoj/ and
Let down in circular wrinkles.

"«•

, ,

JIfv't-,

afTordini

Riy tsn the Crea-h».

,

And, lit'lc Irfs than angel, would be more

Now,

Decli-

I

3.

defcemfing.

And the firft fteps a downhill greenfward yield>.

t

loking down-wardt, jult as gricv'd

I o wa.it the ftrcngth of bulls,

appcart
the furof bears. Pope.

In a courfe of fuceeflive or lineal
defcent.

A ring the count docs wear.

Dry,i,n.
;

the earth,

foar,

vity ; defcent.
Heavy the third, and ftift', be finks apace;
And though 'ti« dnunhiU 4,\\, but creeps along th-

^ WNHI LL.
Do
adj. Declivcus

to

them that look diwnwardt

,„,
Whit
would this mim ? Now upward will
fas

Sbahfp

/.///. J

ornament.il

profpcfts to

from them upon the fubjacent countries.

gyri:J.'\

Lord Hamlet, «ith his (locking's loole,
Ungartcr'd, and </',««^V,vrf to his ancles.

Do WNHi r.i.. n.f. [dWv/.ind

that g4obe, whofe hither

lide.

niw divorced bv the dm'nral/,n

ftcep clili's on the farther fide. Car.

/ft.]

Thou kncmeft my dotv^fiiing and mine
unrif.
ing J thou underftandcit my
thoughts

r. X
WN WAR D.J,
A fudden fall, or body of thing.? falling! Uo

2.

Korrri.

Reft ; repofe ; the aft of fitting
down,
or going to rcrt.

than earth,

Sbahff.ar.s Richard U.
have .'-en firoe, by the wavs by which
they
had deligncd to rife unc mtroliably, to have
direaiy
procured their utter dctunfal.

,

T- have calif to preach it up .gain,

the oyftcr, carrying it up on high,

,.

I>rid,n.

Out of fight ; below the horizon.

And

from rank or

the

^'"""'l I'flgar Errours.
D
Religion
fecms not in danger from
drwnrisht
atheifm, fmce rational men
mull rcjea that for
want of proof.
r,
'

Do WNFAL. n. /. [from dcivn and/a//.]
fall

.^'Id'fir,; Count Tarif,
.,
Dl •
Plain
without palliation.
;
The idolatry was direft and downrirbt
in

people, whole credulity is illimitable.

Mdifin', Cato.

Whom they \n\, r.m^ on :hc'r fei t mi-ht fta id,

Tending towards the ground.

.

Drydeti.

,

:

at

1 bough liunoing elfc at ro.kj ; but dvwit tliey fell
By thoufands.
MUt^,', ^jradif, tlft.
Di-un finks th» giant with a tbund'ring founj,
Hupond'rous limbs oppri.fi the trenibrmg ijroui^d.

dumb.

Tis love, faij /be ; and 'th-.-n my dnvncaj! eyes.

Ruin ; calamity ;

Unceremonious ; honeftly furly.
When it came to the count to fp..ak, old

Faft f*
ftared him in the face, after
his plain ^««,„>i.,
w.ry, that the count was llruck

j

Thy drwncajl looks, and thy difordcr'd thouglitf,
Tell me thy fate
1 alk not the fuccefs
My caufe has fouud.

which any thin» waj to a lower fitaation.

rv*

Sidney.

ftate.

That devntvard hath fu.tcedcd in hij houfc,
F,

om fon to (on, fomc four or five defcents.

'^aK
Do wnwa rd. adj.
Conrr.vr.
_ ,
Do wNL00KED.rt<a)'. [</(iw»and/t>i!;^.] Hav- I. Moving on a declivity;
tending toing a dejcft.-d countenance gloo my
wards the centre
tending to the
;

fullen; melancholy.

.-

*

Bin Jon/on'i Difcniriri.

And guilty dumbncfs, witneb'd my furprize.

I.

plain
'^

I would rather have a
plain dc^nrigb, wifdora.
than a fooliih and aflciitcd eloquence.

My wily nurfe by long experience found,
And firft diTcoyet'd to my foul its wound

Direftly tending to the point
;
artlels.

.

Dar'ft thou, thou little better thing

;

.

2.

Bent

look of modefty.

Spihalor,

_^.

Wanton Unguilhing borrowed of her eyes the

Knillt,.

^

no power to hurt.
__
VEJIran...
1 he merchant s w,te, who abounds
in plenty, is
not to have dc-zonrigi, money
but the mercenary
;
part of her mind is engaged with
a prefent of

direfted to the ground.

;

dr-.vncaft

Hop that

a,

plate.

Do'wN c AST. aJJ. [tToviH and caj}.]

-.,

which may be miftaken

^^„,_
Jt IS dj-wnr.git madnefs to
/trike where we have

Sidney

Utr.

advice,

fpoken mag.ftcnally.

To (/nvii proud heartt that would not willing die.

A man falling down a precipice, though in mo-

MahoiT.ct put hit chief fubrtancc into certain
boats, to be conveyed dmin the river, ai purpofing

than a

how abfurd this may feem to the

The hidden beauties feeni'd in wait to lie.

•

Plain; open; apparent; undifguifcd.

dc'u.'nrrgb,

i,,^,.

kn<ns- not

jMuibna.

An admonition from a dead author, or a
caveat
from an impartial pen, will prevail
more

quer.

hill, left it break thy neck with following
it ; but
the great one that goes upward, let him draw
»"«'•
Shaiifftarci King

Towards the mouth of a river.

I.

To Down. v. a. [from the particle.] To
knock ; to fubdue ; to fupprefs j :o con-

AIonj{ a defcent ; from a liigher place
to a lower.
Let go thy hold when 1 grea' wheel runs dnun

Ltekt.

be

Sbjt.

ap.ffion, that

Downrj'ght, adj.

and if he be not hungry, 'tis not fit he

Gay,

motion if he would.

This paper put Mis. Bull in /„ch

(he fell dnonriibt into a fit.

mafters of demonftration ; and probably
it will
hardly Jcw» with any body, at firrt hearing.
Lccit.

Not all the fleecy wealth

tion, it not at liberty, becaufe he cannot

'to

;

!

Completely ; without flopping fhort.

3.

Ihould eat.

Sandys.

.

Elves, away

received.
If he be hungry more than wanton,
bread alone

A

Mill.
Hills afford plrafant profj eels ; as they muft
aeeds acknowledge wh» have been on the Awbj of
Suflex.
R,y_
How Will-a-wifp mifleaJs night-faring clowns
O'er hillj, and finking bogs, and fuiiltb drtrm.

Or mow'd o'crthwart, or cleft down, igtt.
HuJih-au
In plain terms; withotit ceremony.

We (hall chide drtcmight if J longer ftiy,

Dryden.

A contemptuous threat.

Shakrfptan.

;

,

z.

Dnun, down to hell, and fay I fent thee thither.

;

To compafs this, his building !i a town,
His pond an ocean, his parterre a dttm.
P.pi.
Dqv.s. fref. [abtjna, Saxon.]

A giant's /lain in fight,

but dovin with
Sbakejfmrc.

But now they cry, dnvn with the palace, fire it.
Pull out th' ufurping queen.
2.

To this my errand, and the care it brought.

be

down perpen-

dicularly.

:

If there
*'•""•

Baeoni Natural Hijiory.
Like fcatter'd Jctun, by howling Euros blown
By rapid whirlwinds from his manfion thrown.

dttcni.

Straight or right down ;

.

Go, fome pull down the Savoy j others to the
inns of court d<niin with them all.
khaicjpcarc.

wind, Iheweth a wind at hand j as when feathers,
or </«Mi of thiftles, fly to and fro in the air.

z.

Dikolouring all /he view'd, in tawncy drcfs'd
(
Downhtk'd, and with .i cuckoo on her fid. Dryd.

lition.

Any light thing that moveth, when we 6nd no

_ '° ")•

.4ddif>i.

Here and there.
1

feeds.

z.

Jealoufy, fufTus'd with jaundice in her eyes,

Downly'ing. adj.yo'-MfiMiilie.] About
to be in travail of childbirth.
Down, interj.
Downri'ght. adnj. [do'WH and right.]
I. An exhortation to deftrnftion
or demo-

frior.

I.

himrerif

Let them wander up and drwn for meat, and
grudge if they be not fatisficd.
P/alx lix. 5.

On thy chin the fpringinj beard began
To Cpread a dpubtful dovn, and promiie man.
4.

DOW

learned world, than a man who had written

;

;

•*

ground.

»»

Witli

D O Z

How to the banks, where bards departed dttu.

That drove the fand alonf , he took his wav,
And roll'd his yellow billows to the fea. Dryitn.
-g. Declivous; bending.

They led him foft.

And navies yawn'd for orders on the main.

To DOZE.

Deprefled ; dejeAed.
At the lowed of my jMuvward thoughts,

I

By his gates ot breath

By putting twelve units together, we have the
complex idea of a dox-cn.
Locke.
The number of difTentcrs wa» fomething under
a disser with them.
Sioifi.
Do'ziNEst. «./. [from Jozy.] Sleepinefs ;

Drab. «./. [bpabbe, Saxon, lees.]

And look on death itfelf. Sbakefptarei Macbeth.
The night's companion kindly cheating them
Of all their cares, tam'd tl;c rebellious eye
Of forrow with a foft and dtnvny hand,
[douaire, Fr. It ought to
be written (iWy^r.]
See
portion given with a wife.

Through all his realm, and there confounded leave.
Mi/ten.

The condable was no fooner efpied but he
was reproached with difdainful words, beaten and
dragged in fo barbarous a manner, that he hardly
efcajed with his life.
Clarendcn.

To pull roughly and forcibly.

5.

To fall, that's judice;

2.

But then, to drag him after

Thine own hand

And for idotorc a hundred forelklns pay. CowJey.
3. A gift ; a fortune given.
D»xo'"locy. »./. [ai^x and hiy^.] A
form of giving glory to God.
Davi.l breaks forth into thefe triumphant praifes

God of Ifrael,

who has kept me this day from (hedding blood,
and from avenging myfclf with my own hand.
South,
Little did Athanafius imagine, that ever it wu,.ld
have been received in the Chridian church, to

conclude their books with a doxthgy to God and
Siillin^fieel.
the blelTed virgin.

Do'xy. (I./. A whore; a loofe wench.
When ilaffbdilt begin to pure,
the doxy over the dsle.

Sbakiff.

DOZE. V. n. [bpaef, Saxon

For to die.

j

The eighth part of an ounce.

Tl»e weight of my misfortuoet dragg'd you down.

bred in the hot countries, which grows
many yards length between the llcin

Dryden,

Te

daes,

Drag. -v.
trail or

to

Terrible ; formidable ;
of To dread.]
dreaded.
Th' utmod fand-breach they (hortly fetch,
Whild the <//-«i/ danger does behind remain.
Fairy ^een.
DRAFF, n./. [bpop, dirty, Saxon; dra/,
Dutch, the fediment of ale.]
I. Refufe ; lees ; dregs : properly fomething fluid.
You would think I had a hundred and fifty
tatter'd prodigals lately come from fwinekccping,

pains

A d(jur is faid (a drag, when, by its ill hanging^
on iti hinges, the Bottom ed^eof the door rides in
its Iweep upon the floor.
Moxcn'i Mech. Exercifei.

Drag. n.f. [from the verb.]
1.

A net drawn along the bottom of th«.
water.
Carting nets were fpread in (hallow

UF.prange.

The creatures are but indmments

God's
hand! the retisming our acknowledgments to
them is jud the fame abfurdity with theirs

To live in a ftate of dronfinefs

;

to be

half adeep.
It has happened to yoong men of the greateft
«It to wa(h! their fpirits with anxiety and pain, fo
far, as to Jcze upon their woilt with too much
Vrjin,
cagemefs of doing wcU>

Till vermin, or tlie</r«^of fcrvile fod,

CsoTume mt,

Afilitn't /tfJuiJItt.

in

who

burnt incenfe to xhedrag, and facrificed to the

net.
Rogert,

^

2.

j

Ben "Jttjon.
Hulks, draff, to drink and fwill.
1 caird and drew them thlt'ier.
My hell-hounds to lick up the draff ir\i filth.
Which man's polluting (in with taint had (hed
Mtlions Parodist L«f.
On wliat was pure.
Here rather let u.c drudgf:, and earn my bread.

Dryden.

rw.x.

Whofe appetite is dead !
No, give thi-m grains their fill

brooks,

Dragt in the deep, and baits were hung on hooks.

\

to fleep lightly.

To hang fo low as to

Of founding la/hes, and of dragging chains. Diyd

from eating draff ini hulks. Shaief/:. Henry IV.
'Twere fimple fury, dill thyfelf to wade

On fuch as have no taile
To oft'er them a forfeit of pure bread

There was no fleeping under his roof: if he happened to dtut a little, the jolly cobler waked him.

«r.

grate upon the ground.

From hence are heard the groans of ghods, the

and flefh.

Dr AD. adj. [for dread, or the part, paflive

'

;

Dutch ]
;

!

And ye: in dtatli to conquer, is my wifh. DryJ,
In my fatal caufe your fvrord was drawn

DRACV'NCVLUS. n.f. [Latin.] A worm

An hundred of the faithlefs foe (hall flay,

2.

They (hall furprife
The ferpent, prince of air, and drag in chains

See here thefe movers, that do prixe their honours
At a ctack'd drachm.
Sbakeffean'x Macittb.

Diydent Sfuni/h Friar.

To flumber

miny.

Shak. Ham!.

Drachm, n.f. [^drachma, Latin.]
1. An old Roman coin.

And give a crown in dowry with my love.

I'.

To pull about with violence and igno-

4.

my heart with words.

Babe,
Ditch-delivcr'd by a drab.
Shakifp. Macbeth.
Curs'd be the wretch fu venal, and io vain.
Paltry and proud as drabt in Drury-lane.
Pope.

'

Tethys all herwavesin (/orory gives. Uryd. yirg.

He triumphs in St. Auftin's opinion ; and is
not only content to drag me at his chariot-wheels,
but he makes a fliew of me.
Stil/icgfieet

If your worfhip will take order for the drabs and
the knaves, yuu need not fear the bawds. Shaktjj).

Do'wRy.J

A revvarJ paid for a wife.

like a whore, unpack

And fall a curfing like a very drah !

Do'wRE. X"./'

Sbakefpeart,
The king muft die, that I may make you great.

thing unworthy to be carried.

A

That 1, the fon of a dear father murder'd.

Crajhtiiv.

And aik no other dowry but fuch another jell.

Smith*

whore ; a ftrumpet.
Mull,

can I Jrtig a wretched life without him *

!

To draw contemptuoufly along, as a

J.

The yawning youth, fcarce half awake, effays
His laiy limbs and </oiy head to raife.
Drydtn.

!

Sidn.

Oh

;

fluggifti.

Banquo Donalbain Malcolm awake
Shake off this downy deep, death's counterfeit,

A
Dower.

Drydtn.

Can I, who lov'd fo well.

To part with all my blifs to fave my lover.

Locie,

Do'zY. aJJ. [from (/««.] Sleepy; droufy

Belinda ftill her dc-wry pillow prcft,

!

'Tis long fmce I, for my eeleftial wife,
Loatb'd by the gods, have dragg'd t ling'ring life.

Little ufed.
droufmefs.
A man, by -a violentlitof the gout in his limbs,
finds a doainefs in his head, or a want of appetite.

Her guardian fylph prolong'd the balmy reft. Pcpi.
3. Soft J tender ; foothing,

I could marry this wench for this dcvjre,

To draw any thing burthenfome, any
thing from which one cannot difengagc
one's felf.

2.

•

Dryden.

!

with you, I will never be filcnt; and this chancing
to be a d.iy that I can hold a pen, 1 will drag It as
long as I am able.
Swift,

velled a dimtn miles together under them. Raleigh.

And refts in thofe high beds bis dyivny wings.

"With heigh

Such his afpect, when, fuil'd with .bloody dud,
Dragg'd by the cords which through his feet «ert
thrud.
Dtnham.
While I have any ability to hold a commerce

delicate fruit, I could never find \ yet I have tra-

611,

To

Shakeffcare' t Troilui and Creffida,

To DRAG. -v. a. [bpajan, Saxon.]
1
To pull along the ground by main force
to draw heavily along.

Shakffp€are.

A lide breeze from weftward waits tlieir fails to

and JoxJegies, BlelTcd be the Lord

ployed to draw.
UlyiTes and old Neftoryoke yo» like draft oxen^
and make you plough up the wair.
j

That the Indian (igs bear fuch huge leaves, or

A bou^h of faireft fruit, that downy fmil'd.

2.

Draft, adj. [corrupt for draught.] Em-

gentlewomen, but wc keep a bawdyhoufe draighr.

New g^iclicr'd, and ajnbrofial fniell diffused. Milt.
2. Made of down or foft feathers.

,

dreggy.

to dull.

We cannot lodge and board a doi^tn or fourteen

Perforce muft mo\*c.
Sbahjfe^fe*
There be plants. that have prickles, yet have
dct/ty or velvet rind upon ilicir leaves, as ftockgilljnowers and coltsfoot; which djwn or nap
tondftcth of a fubtlle fpiiit, 'n a foft fubflance.
Sticiui NaiKTol Kijtitry.
In her hand Ihc held

Sealing all breafts in a Icthean band.

Younger brothers but the </r«(^of nature. Dryd.

Dra'ffy, adj. [from //ra^.J Wcrthlefs;

but on light occafions.

There lies adofvny fc:::hcr, which ftirs not
Did he ful'pirr, that light and wcightlefs down

1

;

Do'zEN. n. f. \doutLaine, French.] The
number of twelve.
It is feldc^ ufed

Covered witli down or nap.

!

To ftupify

with immoderate drinking daxtd in his underClarendon.
danding.
Two fatyrs on the ground,
Stretch'd at his-eafe, their fire Silenus found
i)o»V with his fumes, and heavy with his load.
Drydtn.

Do'wNY. ailj. [from i/ewff.]

!

a.

Ptft.

He was now much decayed in his parts, and

pulled up my heart to remember, that nothing is
achieved liefore it be thjrougbly attempted, and
that lying (till doth never go forward.
Sidtny,

1

'V.

Refufe ; fweepings. Perhaps improper-

2.

Pife'i Dumciad.

Chieflefs armies ^csV out the campaign,

When Aurora leaves our northern fphere,
She lights the Jrwntuard heaven, and rifes there.
Drjdn.
3.

DRA

D R A

With dnonoari forcf.

An tnftrument with hooks to catch lipid
of things under water.
y lu may in the morning find it near to fome
fixed place, and then take it up with a drar
hook,
oroche.wife.
V^.'..<,„.

3.

A kind of car dr.-iwn by the hand.

The drag is made fomewhat like a low car
ufed

for

the

carri.ige

of timber,

and

:

it is

then

is

drawn i>y tlic hand.c by tvm or more mm.
Mvcm't Mabanica! Exercifei,

To Dra'cgle.

DRA

D R A

To Dra'cgle. v. a. [from drag."] Tp Dra'gonshbad.
a./
make dirty by dragging on the ground. Dra'gontree.
»./ A
You'll fee a draggUd damlel, here and there.

He

man, to carry.]

Gay'i Trivia.
wore the fame gown five years, without

ferves

Stuift.

^^,,„._

ini caught nothing, had a draught towards
the evening, which put them in hope of a
fturgcon

moifture to breed
aD a con.
In times of dearth it drained
much coin of

from foreign
Bacon to m,ers.

Tk

/I

French.]
A kind of wijiged ferpent, perhaps
imaginary, much celebrated in the romances of the middle ages.

S-wift.

what It contains.

Sinking waters, the firm land to
Fill'd the capacious deep, and

go alone.

Shairfp.art', CymttLm.

mtu moft have been drained of all their fluids.

:

3.

nel

A conftellation near the north pole.
A

plant.

Dra coNFLy. ,. / [Jrag,n and
Ubella.]
A fierce ftitiging fly.

'

;

Burners Tk.orf.

r. DRAPE. .^. „. [drap. French;
draiu,,
'
low Latin.]

;

z.

Hav-

dragonlike.

Ifrom draco, dragon, Latin.]

mide them ft.gger.

DRAM. „./ [from drachm;
1 he

drachma,

Stah/f,

DragonJbUcd,, a refill, l,, „,T.ed
I ,, ,eem
have beeii imagined an animal
pr^du.ti ,n.
//,/;
I ake drar.rfl,M,
beat it in a .„o,tar, a
Jo..
|nn^. clotn with »iua v,l,,
and ftrain
,•

".i

beint;

an ounce.
made betwixt lead ..nj lead,

>«i«h,ng f,,er..lly (bven ^,ams
in the ait, the ba
aoce in tf,e water weigh-tn o ly
feu. dram, an.'
tor.y-one gra.ns, and ab.teth
of the weight in f>e
a,r two drami and
nineteen grains: the balance
Kept the lame depth in the
water.
Bacor

1

noHS ; fiery.
He figiit> dragon/Ike, and dnes achicw

So called from a Calle
oi^inion of the
dragon s combat wUh the
elephant.

trial

z.

A fmall quantity, in a kind of prover-

bial leifle.

orfaiirize. [drapper.
French.V
Jt IS ufed in this fenfe by
the

difpenfe;

A dram ol iweet is worth » pound of four.
Fairy

Slueen.
J
r
No dram
of judgnwat with thy force is io:„

\i

1 hy body

.

d :

i»«fprolit, and siy niiod.

innovator

whom nobody has imitated

°-

^''^""^ '"'''•'^

fell'^cVoih!'-^-

-''<'

..^pi:S::t;di^:,!!---:-j
The draper an! mercer may meafure

her.

Clothwork ; the trade of making
cloth j
woollen manufafture.
He made (latutes tor the maintenance
of draptr,
the realm.
Bacem'i Henry VII.

and the keeping of wools within

Xk reverendJ clergy »
The
Aould fee u, an example, bJ
contenting themleivcs with
wearing
,

gowns, 4^d

Ihe Bulls auJ Frogs had ferved the
lord Strutt
with drapery ware for many
.

yc.rs.

,

}. The drefs of a pidure or ftatue

P.«ts art allowed the f.ime
liberty in their d..
(cnption, and comparifons.
as painters in th
i,
drapenes and ornaments.
„ '

One hving ly»'jr
For mary years of forr.,w can

^f^

Tojeer

•lempU,

I.

couple of

Clarendon

Latin.]
1. In weight the eighth part of

CrMaru,.
Dra coNSBLOOD.n./ [dragon ^ndSho^.]

2.

A linall Dra'p.rv
„./ [Jrapperie, Frenchy*^'-'

Two or three (h, ti, made at them by a
dr.,k:,,

Dra cONLiRE.a^.r^,fl^^and//^^ 'haltp
/J.

|h- ,> t

a fink.

piece of artillery.

<)ual!-/.

;

It vva. rare to let prices by

ftatute; and thisidl
did not prefcnbe prices, but
ftinted them not
tt.
exceed a rate that the clothier
might drape accordingly as he might afford.

Murtimer's Hujhandry.

- -

drangonjiu)

's dri>f^,]A
A vapour f.metimes like ..bear or lion.

To make cloth.

1.

The dock (hould hide her eggs from the
drake,
who wiU fuck them if he finds them.

fly:

Sometimei we lee a cloud that

A, foon a, draw h.s Iword.

praifes of
the great dramat.ft, and the
Wonderful art and ci>der
ot the compofition.

Stvl/t.

, Bactn'% Natural Hif>,r:.

An arbitrary word.

a watercocrfe ;

The

The whole theatre ref -unds with the

Drake, n.f. [of uncertain' etymolosv.l
I. The male of the duck.

3ut,„

Th- b.,iy of the cantharide. is bright
coktired
and 't may b„ th.t the delicate
coloured

,.
,
T\
1>R
A co.N- IS H. aJj. [from dragon. ]
ing the form of a dragon

Stvifts Direc. ,0 the Butler.

It your drains be deep,
that you fear cnttle falling into th'-m, cover ihem.
Mo'rnm.r's H.,/iand, v.
Why (hould I tell of p.,nds and drain,.
What carps we met with for our pains?

Dra'conet. n.f. [(tomdragoitA A little
dragon.
Or in his womb might lork fome
hidden neft
Ot many drag^ntn. his fruitful fred. Fairy

;

from dramatUkA

author of dramatick compofitions

through which linuids are gradually

drawn

Dra'cOn. n.f. [dracunculus. LatUl.T

.

Dra matist. n.f. [from drama.-\ Or-id.n

Dra. n. ». / [from the verb.] The chan-

A fierce violent man or woman.

L Y ad-v

Urank. [the preterite oUrink.}

To make quite dry.
b'.t do not draim them.

I.

Ignorance and errors are feverally
reprehended,
"^
partly dramatually, partly
fimply.

co-

When wine is to be bottird, wa/h your bittle?

glides.

J

^ra""'"'' '' " """'""i' of '"tforf^cing

.

form'd the n.ain.

Dred.

.

"

Reprefentatively ; by reprefentaticn.

!

And you, ye dragons ! of the fcaly race.

may have likewifc fome cwofive

I

The mortal Spaniard's ebbing veins.
By ftudy worn, and flack with ag.-,
Hjw dull, how thoughtlef. is his rage Prcr.
Had the world lafteo f.o:n all eternity, thefe

ihat

dawning

•

D R A M a't c A

Wnile cruel Nero only drain$

Hbakf[peart.

rCol^"""

drain,

The royal babes a tawny wolf ftall drain.

Makes feard and ta";k'd of more than feen.

'"r>
Driden.

..

^

-J

J prefented by aflion;
not narrative
I hope to make it
appear, that, in the great

To empty, by drawing gradually away

2.

th. the.tre.

*"' ""'" ^"'^'-'

DraMA TICK.

t

i he laft emperor drained
the wealth of chofccountries into bis own cotters,
without increafine
his troops againll France.
I

drama; furnifh-

Dramatical. 7 «^. [from -,
vtrnu
-/r«;»^.]'ReXVC-

^.,
Atttrbury.

Like to a lonely dragon, that his fen

J.

a^/sopho^r
'

devoured our ftrcngth, and
rfraicf^ourtreafures, luxury and
eutpencesincreafed
at home.

nafte Ariflotlc dreir

ng^himfelt alfo with obfervations from

•

to furnifli us with corn

"wl-l/t
vvhilft a t
foreign war

H^aiu

you found,
Their guardian g-nii and proteflors own'd.
JJrt»,.
On fpiery volumes there a dragon rides
Here, from our ftrict embrace, a
ftream he

''''"

°r!'?'j'"'S
fr.i^H^'^mer, wnich
he fitted to the

the

kingdom,

DR.VGON. n./. [draco. Latin; dragon'..

In other nations harmlcfs are

to

be obferved as make the
reprefentatlon
probable.

.

Dryden.
Whatfoever old Time, wlih his huge dragon,
has conveyed down to us along the
ftrcam of ages,
whether it be /hells or (hellfifh, jewels or
pebbles,
flicks or draws, fcawteds or mud,
thefe are the an-

Whom glittering gold and (hining armours grace

;

mofs.

great and fmall.

Swift, fwift, you dragta, of the
night!

modated to aftion a poem in which
the
adion IS not related, but reprefcnted •
and in which therefore fuch
rules are

'^'^°™= '^-^

tation, becaufe he could never forgive any
conceit

2.

tilled Ipirits.

DRA'MA n./. [Jp«,,„.] A poem accom-

Prior.

adjacent, and leave but fufficient

which came in bis way, but fwept, lilce a draentt,

May bear the raven's ej-e.

j

Bacon' iNaluralHifljry.
''tu
c
The fountains
drain the water from the gruunu

L'Efirarg,.

f ..

language, to drink drams ; to
drink dif-

Salt water, drained, tlirough twenty
velTels of

One of our late great poets is fonk in his repu-

- .-

5fcURAM. 'V. n. [from the noun.]

To DRAIN, -v. a. [trainer, French.]
I. To draw off gradually.

May'i yirgi/.

Some fifliermen, tjiat had been out with a drag,
nti,

Ape.
In low

!

Deny to have y.mr free-born foe
Dragoon'd into a wooden (hoe.

Dragnctt were made to fifli within the deep.

1

egiraents of dragoons iuffetei much in the

In politicks I hear you Ve
ftanch,
Direaiy bent againft the French

And caftingr.e;! did rivers bottoms fweep.

(hould not wnrk

Malicioudy like poifon.
Sbakejp. fTsmer', Tale.
tvery dram of brandy, every
pot of ale that you
drink, raifeth your charatter.
sJirr
4- Spirits; diftilled liquors.
A fecond fee, by meeker manners known.
And modcft as the maid that fips
alone
From the (Iron- fate of drams if thou
get free.
Another Durfy, Ward (hall fing
in thee.

foot or

rage of loldiers.

water.

•

on

either

But with a ling'ring dram, that

7oDrago'on.i;.<j. [from the noun.] To
perfecute by abandoning a place
to the

which is drawn along the bottom of the

vl.

inaifferently

Two

Dra'gket. n.f. [drag 2inA »«.] A net

cients, thefe are the fathers.

ic.'uld do this, and that with
no ra(h j)Otion,

A kind of foldier that

late aftion.

His draggling tail hung in the dirt,
Which on his rider he would flirt.
Hudibras.

»t ''«•

fpecies of palm.

horfeback.

7* Dra GCLE. v, ti. To grow dirty by
being drawn along the ground.

.

3. Such a quantity of diftilled fpirit as ij
ufually drank at once.

DRAGO'ON. n. /. [from drager,, GtT-

From Billingfgate her ijlhy trafficJc bear.

draggling or tearing.

DRA

A plant.

Orjd, tai.'es.

Dra'p.t. n f. [from drape.^
Cloth; c*
verlet.
Npt in ufe.
,

i hence (he them
brought into a ftate'y half.
Wherein wctc many t.ibkfr fair difpfedy

And

An! ic^ 4i|6t With ttraptis friltivt',

Th« i(S. of fwoeping with

9.

AgiinA ihc viinds ihfiuld be mioilUcrf.

net.

ft

but two pikes grown to an cacclBve bignela*

She had all ma^inciic force alone,

To dra%t? and faflcn fundrcd parts in one.

lialr.

dravsin£ the net.
Hl- l,iid d wn his pipe, and cad ]»is net, which
brought him a very great dr.iugbt*
VEflrangr.

of i medicine that works with fpccd j
as jitip, fcammory, and the ft.-onger putgc^.

t)iiAVE. [the preterite of j/r/i)?.]

All eyes you draw, and with the eyes d>c heart

Of your own pomp yoorlclf thegreaielt pan. Dryd.

The zt\ of fiiooting with the bow.

ix.

Thus I call'd, and firay'd I know not whither,
From whcie I fi.ft drew air, and firft beheld

fiiooting

more ufed.

broached three feeticfs birds called allerions.
Cajr.dcnU Rrmaini,

\niPn's flood,
deep in their own

.c'd

blood.

Cfrwlrfy

12. Diverfion^in war ;

This hippy light.
MUten'i Paradiji Lc/I.
While near the Lucrine lake, confum'd to death,

the adl of difturb-

ing the main defign ;

The foe rulb'4 furious as lie pants for breath,
And through hij n.ivel dravt the pointed death.

I dre':v the fultry air,

perhaps fiiddch

Jraff.'\

conceive the manner of your handling. of the
fudden drttughts upon the enemy, when he l.jokcth not for you. Sffnf* Irrhnd.

and laugh ;
*Ti> old, but true, ftill fwinc cat all the draugb,
Sbaijijpeare.

DuAVCHT. 71./. [from tlra'w.'\
They fiung up one ot their Ingflieads, and 1
drank it oft' at a draught ; witich ln.:;;ht well dn,
for it did not hold hait a pint.

The re(l
They cut in leg* and fillets for the feaft,
Wbich drawn and fcrv'd, their hunger they appeafr.

14. A fink

a drain.
;
Whatfocvcr cntcrcth In at the mouth gocth into
the belly, and is caft out into the draught.
Matt. XV. 17.

QnUivfr'z 1'rax'c'i.

A quantity of liquor drank at ot^ce.

X.

To take from any thing containing or
holding.
They rf,-«i' out the (laves of the ark. x Chrtt,
10. To take off the fpit or broacher.

9.

13. Forces drawn off from the main
army ; a det.ichment.
Such a draught of forces would Icflcn the number of thofe that might otherwife be employed.
}
AtSdijin.

The ad of drinking.

I.

fcri'io^, by drawing

/.

>\'c dij not a6l, that often jcA

He had once cuntioued about nine days

•

thout

drink; and he might have cone nucd lorjjtr, if,
by diftempcring himfelf one night with haM (Judy,
he had not had fame inclination to take a fmall
Bcyh.
draught.
Fill high the gobKts with the fparkling H^mi,
And with deep draugbti invoke our common g(;d.
Dtyd<:n.

Drydeni ^ntiii.

The wine ai life is dmvn, and the mere lees
Are left th;< vault to brag of.
Shakifp. Machtth.
12. To pull a fword from the Uicath.

We will our youth lead on to higher ficlda.
And draiv no fi< ords but what are landtificd. Stat.

Dry den.
With a fmall vertcl one may keep within a mile
of the

ihorc,

Timylf,
handful of fage boiled in it.
Every draught, to him that hat quenched his
thirtt, is but a fa. ther quenching oi naiurc ; a
S.uih.
provifion for rheum and aifcafes.

Liquor drank for pleafure.

3.

Were it a draught for Juno when (he banquet?,
Milttin.
1 would not taftc thy treafonous offer.
Numb'r'd ills, that lie unfeen
oblcc
the
word
nc.
draught
:
In the pernicious

Or hatft, which, once elanc'd, murt ever fly
Prkr.
Irrevocable, the too prompt teply.
Delicious wines th' attending herald brougilt

out his fwcrdwith an intent to kill him.
Dryden.
In all your wars good fortune blew before you,
Till in my fatal caufe your fword was draivni
The weight of my misfortunes dragg'd you down.

rircks,

and

Ellis* s J'cyage.

A

kind of
[In the plural, Jraugin.]
piay referabling chefs.
D R a' u G H r H o u s E If. Jl [ draught and
houji.j
A houfe in which filth is depo-

Dryden*

To let out any liquid.

The a£l of drawing

or pulling

car-

And they brake down the image of Baal, and
brake d 'Wn the huule of Baal, and made it a
df-.iughrhcuff.
1 Kirgt.

witliouti/ra'tt'm^ one drop of blood.

draught, would be perhaps the grcateft improve

meat.

'Tcmflr.

The moil occafion that farmers have, i^ tor
At'rt'tHur^j Uujbattdry.
draught horfcs.

The quality of being drawn.
The Hcrtfordfhirc wheel-plough is the b~ft anJ
ftrongell for

mod ufes, and of the cafiell draught.
Mortimer.

6. Rcprefeiitation by pifture.
Her p'ncil drew wiiatc'er hr foul dcSgn'd,
And oft the happy draught furpafs'd the image in
Dry,Un.
her mind.

7. D.eliaeation ; (ketch ; outline.
good inclination is but the firil rude draught
of viitucj but the iinifhing llrokes are from ihc

A

Siuth.

#ill.
I

have, in a IhoU draught, given a view 01 our

original .ideaa,

from whence all tiMs

lived.

S.

The joiner puts boards into ovens after the batch
\% drawn.

15..

;

reft aro dc-

Lotke,,

A pifture drawn.
WAercas in other creatures we have but the trace
of hi] f lotllcps, in man we have the draught of his
hand: in him were united aU tb« (i:Utered perfecSn:h.
tioBi of tiw cieacuie.

Mwiimtr's Hujbandry,

To unclofeor Aide back curtains.

2 Sam.

Cq^ draw afidc the curtains, and difcuver
The lev'ral calkets to this nnbic prince. Staitft,

He could not t/rM^v the. dagger 6ut of his belly.

And driw the curtains, and exp'^s'd the dame. Dry,

we \^iil dra^v it into the ri\x-r.
2. To pull forcibly; to pluck.

Alarm'd, and with prefaging heart he came,
Shouts, cries, and groans

jfudgti, ii. 2Z.

The arrow is now drati'n to the head, jitierh.
To bring by violence; to drag.
Do not rich men opprcls you, and dr..'w you be-

Dryderu
I'hilocica intreated Pamela to open her grief;
who, drawing the curtain, that the candle might not
complain of her blulhing, was ready to fpcak. 5i<f.

/\'ath. iii. 14.]

17.
Ecclus. xiii. 7

Bacn,

There was no war, no dearth, no ftop of trade or,
it was only the crown \ihich had|

Spirits, by dlftillations, may be drawn out of
vegetable juices, which ihati fl.ime and fume of
themfelves.
Ch.ynt,

fucked coo hard, and now being full, upon' thci
'
head of a young king, was liXe to dra-w lefs,
Ba.cn't H.ury VlV
Sucking and drawing the brcaft difchargcth the;
milk as fait a it can be gcnerared.
IViJrman ck Tumoun.}
attraft J to call towards itfdf.
.
tVe ICC that fait, laid to a cut finjier, healeth it;"

1

I

as it feemcch fait dravicth blood, as well as blood'

8.

To procure as an agent caufe.
When he finds the hardfhip of ftavety outwei^

the value of life, 'tis in hi? power, by refuting hit
maltcr, to draw on himfelf death.
Lccie.

'.

To

To cxtr.iifl.
Herbs draw a weak juice, and have a foft ftaik.

commerce;

(ii

my ears,

To clofe or fprcad curtains.

16.

To fuck.
He baih drawn thee dry.

pierce

And (hows new arms and wounds, and dj ing men«

To

Draw ihc water for the ficge.

liril

and tlicn

A flalh of lightning dra^t'i the guilty fecne,

^

Jamet, ii. 6.
raife out of a deep place.
4..
T.icy drew up Jeremiah with cords, and took
him up out of the dungeon.
jfer. xixviii. 13.
5.

tVifem. Surg.

To take bread out of the oven.

14.

To DRAW. 1'. a. pret. drfiv ; part. paif.
di-a-ivn, [bpagan, Saxon.]
To pull along not to carry.
1
Then Ihail all ilraci bring ropes to that city, and

3.

opened the tumour by the point of a lancet,

1

fore the jud^mcnt-feats ?

A genera! cuftom of u Ting oxen f^r all forts of

t.

Some blood dra-wn on me would beget opinion

Of my more (jcrce endeavour, Shaicjf. King Liar.

Fojit OJyffiy.
riages.

13.

fited.

The gold gave luftrc to the purple draught.
^.

Exixlui, xv.

of any draught woulJ ftrike.

pal's

.

have cured feme very dcfperatc coughs by a
draught cvory morning of fpring water, with a
I

dme thy Kvord; my band (hall deltray

He peucecded fo far in his infolence, as to draw

go amongli

fiiJ.iU, where a vcfl'cl

I will

tkem.

over

16.

He reels, and falling fills the fpacious cave.

Vrydcn,

To take from a caflc.

1.

1

15. The depth which a veflel draws, or
finks into the water.
With roomy decks, her guns •f "ri^hty ftrrngth.
Deep in her draught, and wailtki in her length.

Long draughii of fleep his monllrous limbs cnflavc;

/Uiiifcn tn Italy.

Why drnv Marfeille!" good bilhop jnircr brratb.
When nature ficken'd, and each gale was death *

i

[corruptly written for
Refufe; fwill.
See Draff.
ti.

and gafp for breach,

you tafte the cooling brec^e.

attack.

Tofie^i Jiiadi

Srauoh.

To inhale.

8.

Geffrey of Bouhion, ai one drought ot his bow,
againd David's tower in Jerufalcm|

Dro-vt

Dtrnnr,

Draw out with credulous defire, and lead
At will the manlicft, rciolutelt brcaft.
At the magnetic hardeft iron drmvi,
Miltcn,

The quantity of filhes taken by once

JO.

ll it ufed

He dravt them bey
And their fad bound> i.

To draw ai a magnet does.

7.

Upo« ti>t draught or' a pond, not one filh was left,

Farf S^tm.
Powerful

"Dtfi'tTicK. adj. [Jf«fiit®-.]
vigorous ; efficacious.

is

D R A

D R A

D R A

1

9.

To produce, or bring, as an efficient

caufe.

When the fountain of mankind

Baccn.
MajclVy in an cclipfe, like the (hn, dra^vs eyes
that wiuld not have looked towards it if it had

Old, draw corruption, and God's curfe, by fin.

Ihincd out.

Religion will requite all the honour we can do it,
by the bleffmgs it will draw down upon us. Tiltcif.
Our^voluntary actions are the precedent caufes of
good and evil, which they dratv after itrem, and

dratoeih fait.

Suckling.

He afFcrtcd a habit different from that of the
times, fuch as men had only beheld in pidturcs,
» hich drciv the eyes of moft, and the reverence of
many, towards him.
Clartndcn,

This W.1S a charge that all his heirs did bind.

And all his offspring grew corrupt therein. Sir j"./)*.

brins upon us.

J.xkn

What

D R A

D R A

Yfhit would a man value land rtady cultivated,
and well ftocked, where he had no hopes of com-

gave their children to be foftered by tiicm. Da^vks.
Their beauty or unbecomingnefs are of more
force to draw or detet their imitation
than dif""''""•

Lscke.

To win ; to gain
gaming.

JO.

Draw all the vengeance of his arm upon 'em. Add'ij.

J'd^- XX. 37.

I.

J

21. Toprotraft; to lengthen; to fpin.
!

how pale Aie looks.

And of an earthly c.ld-! Sljkclfcjrt'i Hinrj VJII.
Hear himfclt repine
At Fate's unecjwa! laws ; and at the clue
Which ra«r-"(s in length the midmoft fiftert/rnii.
OryHfni yu-i-enal.
If we fliall irfctitgiin with more delight,

Then dra^v iji) Hfe in Ic-npthj let me fuflain.
In hopes of his cmhfracc, the worft of pain. Dr.JEti,
In Itime fimilies,

men draia their comparifuns

into minute particulars of no importance.

Ftlxm on tit Claljicii.

t2.

To Utter lingeringly.

36.

Jj. To imply ; to produce as aconfequen(ial inference.

What flicws the force of the infu'nce but a
view of all the intermediate ideas thati^^iv in the
Lsekr.

To allure^ to entice.
I'll raife

fuch artificial fprights.

As by the llrength of their illulion
Shi!l draw him on to his confufion.
Slak. Mad.
We have drawn them from the city. j's/. viii. 6.
Vra-ai me not away with the wicked.
Pfiilm xxviii.

3.

Having the art, by empty proroifcs and threats,
to draw others to hit purpofe.

Hayward.

The Spaniaids, that were in the town, had ft
good memories of rticir lofi-s in their former falli«i, as t!.e confidence of an armv, which came
for their delivsrancs, could nnt draw them forth
again.
Bnani tVar v)iib

Sfain.

To lead as a motive.

27.

Stakefp.

y£neas wond'ring (lon6, then a/lc'd the caufc

Which to the rtrcam the eicwdmg people draws.
Drydtn.

To perfuade to follow.
I

drew this gai att head of war.

And call'd thefe fiery fpiriu from the world

To outlook con(jueft.

Sbaktffeart.

The poet
Did

Orphr.s dreia tree*, (hmo, and
flnods;
Since noj^jht fo flsckilh, hard, and foil of ra-r,
feign that

Sui mulick, for tae-boie, doth charge lin na^tu.-r.
HOiktjfeart.

have a

little

vent-hole

To withdraw from judici.il notice.
;

to

:

come,
Shak.

embowel.

It draws men's minds

Draw

in.
38. To
To apply to any purpofe by diftortion or violence.

A

difpute, where every little l»raw la
laid hold
on, and every thing that can but be dra^i-n
in any

way, to give coljur to the argument, is advanced
with oflentation.
Locke.

To reprefent by piaure, or in fancy.
myfcif

To welcome the condition of tiie time

;

Which cannot look more bidcouOy on me,'
Than I \ii\r drawn it in my fantsfy. Shak. H. IV.
With his other hand, thus o'er his brow,

He falls to fuch perulal of my face.
As he would draw it.

Shake/feare'l Itamlel.

Draw the whole world expecting whj fhouUi
After this combat, o'er the cot\^wt'itaMa.

From the fofi affaults of love
Poets and painters never arc fccurc

Waller.
"

Undercolourofwar, which either his negligence
dr.rws on, or hit practices procured,
he levied x
'"''"'*>•

D

RA
47. T»
degrees.

The emperor one day took op a pencil which f i;
from the hand o< Titian, who was tlwi drawir:g
his pifture ; and, upon the compliment
wliich Titian made him on that occafion, he
faid, Titian deDrydeti

Draw

41. To
;//.
To contraft ; to pull
back.
Now, fpoftinginafe,^nn(;wlhefIowing reins
Leave 'he ckar ftreams awhile for funny plains. Cay.

Draw

42. To
in. To inveigle; to entice.
Have they invenied tones ti> win
The w«nitn» and nlakc tUtm draw in
i

w OB. To caufe

Hayward.
;

to bring by

The eximination of the fubtile matter would

draw on the confideration of the nice controvcrfiesthat perplex philofophers.

Jicyle on Fluids.

Draw o-ver. To rRJfe in a

48. To

ftiil.

took rcilifieo oil of vitriol, and bv
degrees
mixed with it elTential oil of wormwood,
drati'n
over with water in a limbeck.
Boyle cu
I

Colours.

Draw eT)er. To perfuade to re-

49. To

volt ; to induce to change a party.
Sorr.e might be brought into his
intererts by
money, ethers drawn omr by fear. Add. on the

Wat.
One of differing fcntiments would have drawn

Lurlier cwr to his party,

50. 7 D

Aiterhury.

D R A w out. To protraa to lengthen.
;

He mult not only die the death.
Bat tl.y unlcindiicl's fliall his death draw

out

To ling'ring I'uflerance. Shak. Meaf.for Meafure.
51. To Draw out. To beat out, as is done
to hot iron.
Batterr a piece of iron our, or, as workmen
call it,
dra^v iisur, till it comes to its bicidth.
Afo.X!.n.

Virgil has drawn out the lulcs of
tillage and
planting into two books, which
Hefiod has difpatched in half a one.
Mdi/on.

D

R A w oitt.
52. -ra
To e.vtraft ; to pump
out by infinuation.
Philoclea found her, and, to draw
out more,
I have often wonJcicd how
fuch excel.
ler.cies could be.
Sidney.

'

faid lie,

SI-

To Draw out.

To induce by motive.

Wherea. it is concluded, that the retaining
veifc things in the church of England,
which

di-

other

reformed churches have cart out, murt needs
arnuo
that we do not well, unlels we can (hew
that they
have done ill What needed this wrelt
to draw out
from u^ an accufation of foreign churches ?
liookir.
;

Draw

54. To

out.
To call to aftion ; to
detach for fervice ; to ran'^e.
Draw out file, pick man by man,
Such who dare die, and dear will fell their
death.
.t

;

To form a reprefentativc image.

ferve! to be fcrved by Carfar.

offUom the bitternefs of

D

37. To convey a criminal to execution on
a lledge.

I do arm

to ab-

;

Mdifon.
r"J-' T.
HAW on. Tooccafion; to invite.
46. Jo

Swift.

To evifcerate

Mcrt. Hujh.

To withdraw

I

In private draw your poultry, clean your
tripe,
And from your eels their fiimj lubflancewipe. Kin".

40.

ar.d

ftraft.

Can I untouch'd, the fair one's nalTions move,
Or thiu draw beauty, and net feel its pow'r ' Prior.

Vour way is (huter ;
My purpofes do draw me much about.

28.

to force.

Go, wjfh thy face, and draw thy aflion
thou mufl not be in tliis humour with mc.

39.

vcni-1,

45. To'Dt.AV/of.

Shall Ward draw contraQs with a ftatefir.an's

fciences.

26.

;

Pi'lts.

35.

concluficn, or propofiti .n inferred ?

To extort

The report is not unartfully ^r^i-n, in the fplrit
of a pleader, who can find the moft plaufiblLto-

Which Icings pretend to reign ?
Dtydm.
Several wits entered into commerce with the
Egyptians, and from tiiem drivi the rudiments ot

Temple.

Stop your

have my bond. Sta.

In the mean time 1 will draw a bll of properties, fuch as our play wants.
Sbake/feare.
Clerk, draw a deed of gift.
Shakelfeari.

The fame right to be rui'd by law.

From theeventi and revolutions otthefc governracnts, are drawn the ufual inltruftions of princes

Md,Jcn', Freeholder.

,

Were in fix parts, and every part a ducat,

Who from confent and cullum drjtv

Timfli.

.

drain out by a vent.

out till you draw offi great quantity.

of formulary or juridical writings.

24. To deduce as from populates.

.

'"'fJ o

44.

To

Drydcn't FaiUi.

"

(ome time, till
fVrength, and by
reading, reflexion, and conveifjtion,
laid in a new
ftock of elegancies, fcntiments, and
images of na-

as, to Jraii.-

So fad an objeft, jiid fo well exprefs'd,
Dreiv fighs and groans from the giiev'd hero's
breaft.
Dryden.
Can you e'er forget
The fond embraces, and repeated blcltmgs.
Which you drew from him in your lad farewcl ?
Mdijln.
wreft ; to diftort.
33.
1 wilh that both you and others would ceafe
from drawing the fcriptures to your fantafies and
aff^ions.
mi,gi/,e.
34. To compofe; to form in writing: ufed

23. To derive ; to have from ibme original catife or donor.
Shall freebom men, in humble awe.
Submit Co fervile Hiamc ;

and Aatcfmen.

Au'hjrs who have thus drawn ojf the fplrits of
their th.Hights, fhould lie fliU for
their minds have gathered f.elh

f1o,>ped with a fpill, which never allow
to be pulled

32.

The brand, amid the flaming fuel thrown.
Or drtvi, or fcem'u to dram, a dying groan.

To extract by diftilla-

^If every ducat in fix thoufand ducats
I would not rfrawthem, I would

Huw much her grace is alter'd on tlic fudden

:

mifcreantj
South,

tion.

For thy three thoufand ducats here it fix.

they Ariiu chcmfclves more wcilcrly towards the
Raleigh.

Red Sea.

!

To receive; to take up

money from the funds.

In procrfs of time, and as their people incrcafcd,

'hem in, and deceived them.

To Draw of.

'^i-

This feems a fair deferving, and muft dram mc
That which my father lofcs. Shakejf. King Le^r.

To convey fecretly or gradually.
The iicis in wait dra'u: themltlvej along.

Huw long her lace is linrtvn

t.iat drew

a metaphor from

:

HudihrA.

It was the proihture faith of faithlefs

Lock,.

.

His fword ne'er fell but on the guilty head ;
Oppreilion, t)ranny, and pow*r ufurpM,

Tarn-: elephant inveigle the male ?

and dreru them in to dwell among them, and

Irifli,

Thoft elucidation:^ have ^iven rife or increafe to
his doubts, anJ dranLn ubicurity upon places of

to.

D R A
The men, as I.idians with a female

to perfuade.

;

The Englift lords did ally thcmfclves with the

inerce with other parts of the world, to dra'Uf money to him by the Tale of the product ?
Ltcke.

firipture.

To induce

29.

Dryden,

»i
Next of his men and /liips he makes review.
Draws out the bell and .iblelt of the crew. Dr. yK»,
/•

1

•

To

range in battle.
Let him delJre his luperior ofSccr, that, the
next
time he is drawn out, the challenger may
be pofled
near him.

5 J.

Colli-

56. To

Draw up.

To form in order of

battle.

So Muley-Zcydan found us

Drawn up in battle, to receive flie charge. Dryden.
57. To Draw b/. To form in writing to
compofe in a formulary manner.
;

To make a fltctch, or a more perfcft model of
apic-

'

D R A

D R A
ptdure, Is, in

t

the language of posts, to dra^v uf

Dr^fd^r..
tbe fccnciy of a play.
paper may be dra-viti i/f , anJ figncd by two or
Swift.
three hundred principal gentlcinen.

A

To Draw. ^'. ».

To

1.

ney paid back for ready payment, or
any other reafon.

draught.

Think every bearded fellow, that 's but yok'd,

May draiu with you.

Ihould keep a watch upon the particular
bias in their Itiinds, that it may not draiv too much
jiddifm't SptSaUr.

Tocontraift; to (hrink.

3.

have not yet found certainly, that the water
or
itfelf, by mixture of aflies. or duft, will (brink
i^acm's Natural Wfioydma into let's room.
advance ; to move ; to make pro4.
1

A bridge made to be lifted up, to hinder or admit communication at pleafure.

the well.

From the hewer of thy wood unto the drawer
of thy water.
2.

Vou were, Jupiter, a fwan, for the love of Leda: Oh, omnipotent love! bow near the jjod rfrrw
Shukcfptare.
to the cjmpienion of a goofe.
Draw yc near liither all the chief of the people.

Let the waiters ha^e eyes, though their tongu?s
mutt be lied.
Bt^i yi^nfon's Tavern Acad.
A man of fire is a general ei;emy to all wai.er",
and makes the draivirs abroad, aitd hjs footman
at home, know he is not to be provoked. 'Tarler.

Milton's Paradife LcJI.

and the Scots drtia a little back to a more conveI

Dryd. Don SetaJI.
Now nearer to the Stygian lake they draw.
Whom from the fliorc the furly boatman faw,
Obfcrv'd their paffage through the rtiady wood.

great drawer.

(liinding of a man.

Bhckmcre.

man's drefs.
The Maltefe harden the bodies of their chil-

To pradlife the art of delineation.
Si much infight into perfpeftive, and flcill in
drawing, at will enable him to reprefent tolerably
on paper any thing he fees, (hould be got. Loch.

To take a card out of the pack

;

When the engagement proves unluckly, the way

Dra'wing. n.f. [from d'ratt;.]

his truth is illuilrated by a difcnurfe on tile
nature of the e'xphant ind the drayhof.
Taller.
'1

Have not coblers, draymen, and mechanicks
governed as well as preached > Nay, have not they
by preaching come to govern ?
South.

A plough of a particular kind.

The drayflougb i%jist bed plough in winter for

ture ; or from drofleffe, French, a whore.]

A low, mean, worthlefs wretch.

Delinea-

As !he devil ufes witches.

To be their cully fo: a fpace.
That, when the time 's expir'd, the draxeh
For ever may become his valfals.
HudibrO,

Fear; terrour ; affright; horrour
ther felt or impreffed.

1.

room."]

The room in which company allcmbles

1.

Think'IV thou that duty

at court.

What )Ou heard of the words fpoken of you
the fayings of
in the drawingrcom wis not true

Te D R A w a». To advance ; to approach.
The fatalday</r«w»on,whcnl mud tall. Dryd.
To form troops into
12, To Da AW up.

:

Is bound, when majefty to folly falls.

Sbakcfpeare's King Lear.
Let not thy dread make me afraid.
yob.
Was ever any wicked man free from the (lings

Drawn, [participle from dra^v.^

of a guilty confciencc, from the fccret dread of
divine difpleafure, and of the vengeance of another
world ?
Tillctfin.
If our fears can be awakened with the dreed of
evil, he has armed his laws with the terrour of

An army was drawn together of near fir thou-

Clarendon.

fand horfe.

Clarendon.

So lofty was the pile, a Parthian bow.
With vigour drawn, muft put the ihaft below.

13,

eternal mifcry.

Drydett's Fables.
1

Equal ; where each party takes his own

2.

ftake.
If we make a drawn game of it, or procure
but moderate advantages, every Britilh heart muft
tremble.
Addijon.

2.

hi.ids ?

Let him be your dread.
Ifaiab*
To thee, of all our good the facred fpring;
To the:, out dearcft ^rr«if; to thee, our fofier
king.
Prior.

Sbakejpeare.

;

A town befieg'd.

Dryden'i Tyrannic Lave

Ocn. ix. 2.

The perfon or thing feared; the caufe
of fear.

With a fword drawn.

Open put afide, or unclofed.
A curtain dcawn prefented to our view

Rogers.

Habitual fear ; awe.
The fear of you, and the dread of you, (hall
b- upon every bread of the earth.

3.

What, act thou drawn among thofe heartlefs
3.

have dread to

fpeak.

The company affembled there.

2.

(hail

ei-

When pow'r to flatt'ry bows ? To plainne.'s honoor

princes ate generally as ill related as the fayings of
wits.
Pope.

there was no enemy left on that fide, driw up in a

gradual or continuous, and leifurely.
Thus <Me forge a fword by blows, but we
Jraw it by a continued line. We pour
liouor quick, but we draiu it in a continued *ream. Vfe force compliance by
threats, but we draw it by gradual prevalence. We turttt a letter with whatever hade, but we draw a bill with ilow

Mortimers Hujbandry,

Dra'zel. n.f. [perhaps corrupted from
droffel, the fcum or drofs of human na-

Dra'wing ROOM. n.f. [from drenu and DREAD, n.f [bpab, Saxon.]

1 1

To Draw retains, through all its varieties of ufe, feme (hade of its original
meaning, to full. It expreflcs an aftion,

miry clays.

rcprefentation.
They random drawings from your (heets (hall take.
And of one beauty many blunders make. Pofe.

Ccllier.

The lord Bernard, with the king's troops, feeing

Oac

A brace of draymen bid God fpeed him well.
And had the tribute of his fupplc knee. Sbatefp.

tion ;

is to draw off by degrees, and not to come to an

regular order.

A

horfe which draws a dray.

dren, by making them go (fark naked, without
ihirt or draivers, till they are ten years old.
Locke.

to

take a lot.
Dryden.
He Yi3s drawn a black, and fmiles.
'9. To make a fore run by attraftion.
JO. To Draw oJ\ To retire; to retreat.

ftfupuloiity.

Dra'y HORSE, n.f. [dray inA horfe,]

,

and a drawer of medals fupplying their ro(;m.
Addijcn on Medals.
The lower part of a
5. [In the plural.]

Drew to defend him, when he was befct. Shakeff.

large fieid oppofite to the bridge.

Let him be brought into the (ield of eleflioJi
upon his drajcart, and i will meet him there in a
triumphant chariot.
Addifon.
When drays bound high, then never crof^ behind,
Where bubbling yeft is blown by guftsxjf wind.
Gay,

«

for his love

open rupture.

carried.

Locke.
We will fuppofe the China dilhcs takea off, Dra'yplough. n.f. [dray i^nA ploirgh.]

They mutter there, and round the centre fwarm,

t.

DRAY.
I „.f [bjtaj. Sax.] The
DRA'YCART. I car on which beer is

,

drawn at pleafure.

come together.

7.

Then mount the clerks, and in one lizy tone
Through the long heavy page drawl on.
Pope.

a'v man. n. f. [dray and matt.]
A box in a cafe, out of which it is D Rtha:
attends a dray or cart.

4.

drawer of a cabinet, hath of the fenfes or undcr-

For his fake

To utter

any thing in a flow, driveling way.

Hwifi.

There may be other and different intelligent
beings, of whofe faeuKies he has as little knowledge, or apprehenfion, as a worm, (hut up in one

Did 1 expofc myfelf, pure;

To Drawl, •v. k. [from draiv.']

attraclive, becaufe phyficians obferve that lire is a

And mark'd their near approaches to the flood.Dr_>'.
And now I faintwith grief; my fate drawi ni^h,
In all the pride of blooming youth I die. Md. Ovid.
To draw together ; to be coUefted ; to

And draw together in a globofc form.
i. To draw a fword.

drawzvell: th: people of old were wont only to
let down a pitcher with a handcord, for as much
.
water as they could ea(ily pull up.
Grrw.

Love is a ll.unc, and therefore we fiv be-iuty is

of drawing upward to the fun.

5.

That which has the power of attradion.

3.

A

deep well ; a well out of which water is
drawn by a long cord.
The firii conceit, tending to a watch, was a

glalTcs;

They rerorned to the camp where the king was,
Clanrdm.
nient poft for their refiJence.
Ambitious meteors how willing they are to fet
every
occafion
themfclves upon the wing, taking

Dra'wwell. tt.f. [dratu and ivelf.]

Shakejfeare's Heiry IV.
Let the drawirs be ready with wine and frc.'Ii

He ended ; and th' archangel foon drew nijh,
Nit in hi3 Oiape celcftial, but as man

Chd to meet nun.

Spenfer on It-eland.

As this friendfhip was dratvn together by fear
on both (ides, fo it was not like to be more durable
than was the fear.
Hayxvard.

Deut. %%\x. is.

One whofe bulinefs is to draw liquors
from the cafk.
Stand in fame bye room, while I queftion my
puny dratver to what end he gave me tlie fuga--.

Sajjt.

I

The Iri(h will better be drawn to 'the Englilh,

One employed in^procuring water from

1.

Sbaie/peart.

as from fome motive.

than the Englilh to the Irilh government.

Half the buildings were raifod on the continent,
and the other half on an iOand, continued together by a drawbridge. Carc^.v's Surveyof Cornwall.
Dra'wer. n.f. [from drww.']

To

greffion any way.

fox.

5. Induced

Dra'wb RIDGE. >i.f. [dranv and iridge.'^

Shaitfftare'i Othel/o.

'i hey

There is no more faith in thee thin in a ttoned
prune ; no more truth in thee than in a drawn

In poundage and drawbacks I lofe half my rent ;
Whatever they give me, I muft be content. Stvift.

To aft as a weight.

2.

Evifcerated.

4.

The ad of drawing.
2. The lot or chance drawn.
Dra'wback. n.f. [rtVrt'-u- and W/f.] Mo1.

perforin the office of a bea() of

An heifer which hath not been wrought with,
tnd*hich hath noti/rawnin the yoke. Dtui.xx\. 3.

D R E

Draw. n.f. [from the verb.]

Dread, adj. [bpseb, Saxon.]
I.

Terrible; frightful.
That

DRE

D R E
That e'er this tongue of mifte.

more ingenuity than truth, from i^&na,
T» Q'm, the comedy of life ; dreams being,
as plays are, a reprefentation of femething which does not really happen.

That laid the fentence of dread bani/bnient

Oh yond' proud man, fiiould Cake it off again
With wcrds of footh

DRE

Siake/feen't Richard II,
haft niurthcr'd him :
So ihauld a murtherrr look, fo dread, fn grim.
!

It cannot be, but tho

This conceit Junius' has enlarged
quoting an epigram

Sbakeffeare,

To be vcpos'd againft the warring winds
To ftand againft the deep dread bohed thunder.

ri

Who leave* the pie and gnaws the ftreamer.

/xa3i erai-

Celeftial virtues ri£ng, will appear

Or, Ihipwreck'd, labour to fouie djiiant Jhore.

That /hllfc us nightiy.

Shahejpeare's Macbeth.

Dry den.

This feeras to be the meaning of that
controverted f\iXi{^, dread majejiy. Some

Th; pltjfing (hipss of all you law before. Drydcn.
An idle fancy; a wild conceit; a

Drear,

of parliament are faid
in the preface to be metueadijftmi ngis,
our dread fovereign's.
STa Dread, -v. a. [from the noun.]
To
fear in an exceffive d^ree.
You may defpife that which terrifiei others,
)
and which yet all, even thofe who moft dread it,
muft in a little time encounter.

Dre'ader. »./ [from </«<i</.]

One that

Accompanied with d»mp« and dreadful %\aom.

Unbuckling helms, fifting each other's throat,

Milieu,
Granville.

Awful ; venerable.

How dreadful is this place

Dre'adfulness.

)i.

/.

Nor Cymbelinci/rrawi that they are alive.

Genets.

„
He little dream'd

It may juftly fer\e for matter of extreme terrour to the wicked, whether they regard thcdreadfulre/t of the day in which they Ihall be tried, or
the quality of the judge by whom they are 1 be
1

Dre'ad FULLY, ad-v. [ from itrtadful.

.

Terribly ; frightfully.
Not iharp revenge, nor bell itfclf, can find

A fiercer torment than a guilty mind,

5.

Which day and night doth dreadfully accufe.
Condemns the wretch, and ftiil the charge renews.
lirydtn.

Dre aoless. adj. [from drtad.'\

Fear-

;

Fairy 0ueen.
All n'ght the dreadltft angel, unporfued,
Through hcav'n'j wide champaign heid hit way.

intrepidity ;

Tii!^ vifion faiJ,

and vanilh'd from his fight;
Th:dt earner wskcn'd in a mortal fright. Dryden.
Jr our dreamer pleafcs to try whether
the glowing heat of a jjlafj furnace be barely a
wandering
irnaginaticn ia a drowfy man's fancy, by
putting
his head into it, he may perhaps be wakened
into

refs.

Zflmane, to whom danger then was a eaufe of
ompifttion of htr elements

iretdljfitjs, all the

being nothing but fiery, with fwifmefi of iiUire
croiTed

him.

DREAM, n. f.

Suiney.

[droDm.

Dutch.

This

•rord is tferivcd by Meric Ca/aubon, with

Vol. J.

;

cies in his fleep.

undauntcd-

Sorrowful; dillrefsful.
The mcU'enger of death, the ghaftly owl.
With dreary Ihrieks did alfo yell
And hungry wolves continually did howl
At her abhorred face, fo horrid and fo foul.
_,,

2.

Gloomy ; difmal ; horrid.

Obfcure they went through dreary Ihadct,
that
led

Alnrg the vaft dominlonj of the dead.
Drydin.
TaviTxi, forelis, her><S, and men
promilcu.;ui
drown'd.

With one great death deform t!b.t dreary ground.
T-ii.

3.

Prier.

.

/.

is

fcarccly ufed but in poe-

1

This word

tical didlion.

DREDGE. ». /. [To dret<h, in Chattcev,
IS
to delay ; perhaps a net fo
often
flopped may be called from this.]

A

kind of net.
for

oyfteis

they

7c Dredge. <!;.«. [from the noun.]

An idle fanciful man; a vifionary.
Somcc-mc he angers me

With telling of the moldwarp and the ant,
Ol dreamir Merlin, sM iiit profhccies.

Siiakff.

To

gather with a dredge.
Tl,c oyfters dredged in the Lyne find a welcome
acceptance.
Careti.

Dre'dcer. n.f, [from dredge.] One who
fifties

with a dredge.

Dre'cginess. n.f. [from dreggy.]
nefs of drjgs or lees;
nefs ;

z.

fairy &ueen»

And dreamt the future fight, and early rofe. Dryd.
.

Dre adlesswess. n. f. [from dreadle/i.]
Fearleffnefs ;

I-

have a peculiar dredge; a
thick, ftrong net, faftened to thix:e fpillj
of iron,

Dre'amer. /J./ [from a'r.'aOT.]
One who has dreams one who has fan-

Mdun.

^

^"''

DRE'ARY. adj. [bneonij. Saxon'.]

and drawn at the boat's Item, gathering
wliatloever It mecteth lying in the bottom.
Ciereiu.

At length in fleep their bodies theycompife,

I

deadly
'

Dryd.

Was taught to dream in herb for Ptolemy.

Dreadleji, faid he, that (hall I fion declare;

Unto an aged woman.

to idle.
Why does Anthony dream out his hours.
And tempts not fortune for a noble day ? Dryden,
;

To fee in a dream.
'
The Maccdon, by Jove's decree,

free from terrour.

It was compJain'd, that thou hadft done great tort

thin the imSmith.

7oD9.^^u,'v. a.

le& ; unaffrighted ; intrepid ; un&aken

undaanted

To be fluggifli

i„,,.
left

dait with

feud,

InroU'd in flames and fmoaldring drearime^t.

To think idly.

but 1,0: digeftng.
1 began to dream of nothing
mortality of my wvrk.

This word

Almighty Jove, in wrathful mood.

Hurls forth his thundering

They dream on in a conftant toarft of reading,

]

now obfolete.

To wreak the guilt of mortal fins is bent;

how nigh he was to care.
Till treach'rous fortune caught
him in the fnare.
Dtyden.
Mn
....
^

HaieTrill en Prenidenre.

,

is

Burnet's 7beciy,

,.

Spenf,.,-s Efiibaltmium.

Horrour ; dread ; terrour.

iibat.

He never dreamed of the deluge, nor thought
that firft orb more than a tranfient cruft.

[from drtad/u/.]

Terriblenefs ; frightful nel's.

tried.

z.

And wakd halfdead with nothing. Shak. Coriol.
}. To think ; to imagine.
Thefe boys know little they are fons to th'
king,

Thy lore, Bill arm'd with f»t«,

teach the woods and waters to lament

1

Taller.

M'.lton.

Sorrow; difraalnefs; melancholy.
Vour doleful dr.ariment.

2. It has e/" before the noun.
I have long dream'd o/fuch a kind of
man.
But, being awake, I do defpife my dream.
Shak.
1 have nightly lince
/Jrrjmf »/ encounters 'twixt thyfelfand
me:
V/e have been down together in my
fleep,

Sftnfer,

Dre'ariment. ft./, [hom dreary.]
I.

eitcrnal objefls, or known occaCon,
nor under
the rule or condufl of the underftanding.
L(xte.
I dreamed that I was conveyed ii.to
a wide and
boundlcfs plain.

Terrible; frightful; formidable.
The rigid interdiction which refounds

I» dreadful as thy hate.

of fome-

Dreaming is the having of ideas, whilft the
outward fenfcs are ftopped, not fuggeiled by
any

The ftiil night,

i.

Pined wjth grief of foliy ,ate repented.

To have the reprefentation
thing in ficep.

Dre'adful. adj. [dread znd/u/!.']
Vet dreadful in mine ear.

er in ufe.
That fnonly from the (hape of womanhed,
Such as Jhe was when I'aUas Ihc attempted.
She grew to hide^ius ihapc of drearibend.

dreamt, [from the noun.]

lirci in fear.
I have fufpended much of mjr pity towards the
grcac dreaders of popery.
S-wifc,
I.

rour ; difmalnefs : a word now no long-

Ke m^y eoguard his dotage.
Sbaieff. K. Lear.
To Dream, -v. n. prefer dreaine

Dread not, ncjiher be afraid of tliem. Deut. i. 8.

Altlton,

,

Dre arihead. n. f. [from dreary.] Hor-

Each bua, each fancy, each compUinr, dillike,

Waii.

7o D K E A D . <!/. a. To be in fear.

Affrights the ilamens at their fervice quaint.
_-

A hundred knights; yes, that on ev'ry dream.

I.

[bitet^ij, Saxon, dreary.

A drear and' dying found

groundlefs fufpicion.
Let him keep

afts

adj.

In urns and altars round,

Glorious dreams ffand ready to reflore

of the old

terrour.

Mournful; difmal ; forrowful.

More gloiious and more drtod than from no fall.

.

Dread;

The ill-fac'd owl, death's diejtiful mefTenger;
The hoarle night raven, trump of doleful dr^ar.

In dreams they fearful precip.cc's crcad

From this defccnt

Camden's Remains,

Drear, ff.y.

a fleeping man.
\Ve ejt our meat in fear, and deep
In the affliction of thofe terrible dreams

:

reported to be both nan^elefs and dreamleju

A phantafm of Heep ; the thoughts of

Th'ju, attended glorioufly from hcav'n,
Shalt in the Iky appear, and from thee fend
The fjmmoning archangels to proclaim
Thy dread tribunal.
Mdton'i Paradife L'Ji.

Prior,

an idler.
DsE'AMLESs.iji^'. [{romdream.^ Without
dreams.
The favages of Mount Atlas, in Barb.iry, were

^riti:!.]

.

A fluggard

4.

TuF ffiruar.t /x'TaSsr?, ? ^{pt rif oJi.»a<.

Awful; venerable in the higheft degree.

«.

in wild imagina-

And he muft be an idle dreamer.

by

^hakejpcjre,

Terrour feiz'd the rebel hoft,
When, coming tiwards them; fo dread they fa.v
The b'^ttom of the muuntains upward turn'c . Milt,

loft

The man of fenfe his meat devours.
But only fmells the peel and flow'rs

:

(S,'^ xj 'OTXiyvicv

a man

;

tion ; a reveur.

',

£«1*i/ 'uiet<i

A mope

.

foulnefs;

Ful.

muddi-

feculence.

Dre'ggish. adj. [from dreg:.] Foul with
lees ;

feculent.

To give a ftrong tafte to this dreggip li(juor,
they fling ill an inciedibie deal of broom or hops,

4£

wheieby

Dre'ogv. adj. [from drtgs.]
confifting

And through a horn the gen'rous juice infus'd.

Containing

muddy

of dregs ;

3.

;

feculent.
Thefe num'touj veins, fuch is the curious frame,
Receive the pure infinuating ftream j
Bui no corrupt or dregp parts admit.
To form the blood or fted the limbs unfit.

.

^

;

Drent. fariiciple.

^^-y'fdreggi-

from drenched,

^

To clothe

I.

for then they

up in

The king by this journey purged a littl: the

Drofs; fweepings; refufe.
fates defign d

Dryd.
What diffidence we muft be under whether
we have noGod will regard our facrifice, when
and refufe of lite,
thing to oft'er him but the dngs
fatiety, and the years in
the days of loathing and
Kcgtn.
which we have no pleafure.

roDREiN.f.B. [See Drain.] ToeinpThe fame with drain : fpelt differty.
ently perhaps by chance.

fecrets: 'tis but
She is the iluice of her lady's
and I can drtm her of
fettmg her mill a going,
^""S"'^'
them all.
.,
,.
^
poifon now;
•Tis drein-d and emptied of its

Sou,h'r.

'^'y^'"-

^.

fo DRENCH, -v. a. [bpencan, Saxon.J

On which full many a (lender meal the made.
Dryden.

Where was a fine room in the middle of tl.e
commiflionCUrendon.
ers to fit in.
all xht
Skill is ufcd in drejing up power with
Lochc.
fplendour ahfolutenefs can add to it.
The mind lofes its natural tclifli of real truth,
can
and is reconciled infenftbly to any thing that
Loch.
into any faint appearance of it.
be drrpduf

To cover a wound with medicaments.
Jn time of my ficknefs another chirurgcon drtffcd

Our

;

to rub; a term of the ftable.

forced
infirmities are fo many, that we a-!

and tend horfcs and

to drcft

aflcs, that they

may

7aylir.

help our needs.

Three hundred horfes, in high ftables fed.
Stood ready, fiiining all, and fmooihly drefi'd.
Dryden i Mncid.

To break'or teacK a horfe

:

horfemanftiip.

in

The fccond day after we took oflT the dreffwgSy
and found an efchar made by the cathcretick.
fp^ifeman en 'Tumours.

Dre'ssino-room. n. / [dre/s and room."]
The room in which clothes are put on.
Latin books might be found every day in his
dnffia^-room, if it were cjrefuily fearchcd. Swift,

Drest-. part, [from dreft.]

./Iddifon.

To Drib. T. a. [contraifled from dribble.]

To crop

lie, 33 \n

Our
violence.
%. -To p'hyfick by

7.

His aid in war, his ornament in peace.
reftify; to adjurt.

Adam

V.'ell

terations,

r.
Dryden.

may we labour ftill to drift

llow'r.
ftUl to ten* plant, herb, and

[from the verb.]

afwill: by way of abhor1. A draught;
rence or contempt.
the (Icepy drcncb
Let fuch bethink them, if

Of that forgetful lake benumb not ftiU,
Thatin our proper motion we a.'i:end.

MtUim.

8.

fevtral

Farriir s Diet.

thou kill'd to-

"Harry, faya (he, how many haft
ht-rf=.6Wi., fays ly; and
day? Oi« my roan
Aiai. Hen. IV.
aJwrs. fourteen, an hour aTtet.

pveflTim

When he drtjjiib the lamps he (hall burn inExcd. xxx.
When you </r«/j your young hops, cut away roots

or fprigs.

10.

Marlimrr's Hu/hnndry.

To prepare viftuals for the tabl?.

Thus the voluptuous youth, bred up to drrfi
For Ijis fat grandfire fome delicious mefs.
In feeding bigh his tutor will furpafs.
heir appaienl of the gourmand race.

An

Dryden

ufual in living

(if

urine,

miy be cajfcd by tbe ftone's

(hutting up the orifice of the blrdder.

In Orkney they drrfi their leather with roots of
Mnrlimeri Hup>.miry.
tormentil, inftead of bark.

a.*Phyfickforabrute.
for a fick
A drtiftb is a potion or drink prepared
drugs ui a liquid

Dryd.

ccnfe.

are

Semilunar proccfiis on the furfaee owe their
form to the dribbling of water that pafi'ed oyer ir.
Woodtvard on Fcfft:s,
A dribbling, difficulty, and a momentary fup-

To prepare for any purpofe.

any thing for ready ufe.
9. To trim ; to fit

as

To fall in drops.

1.

muft the ground be digg'd, and better

New foil to make, and meliorate the reft.

fuch

languages: drop, drip, dripple, dribble,
Drip
from thence dri-vel and dri'veller.
may indeed be the original word, from
the Danilh drypp.]

drefi'd.

Mirl-mer t Hujbandry.

horfc and^ompofed of
1 J/

well

A

Dryden.

Milton.

cattle are ii.fertcd, fjecdily let
If any of your
ini drench thefti.
fick and well blood,

both

!

to defalcate.

Merch.ints gains come fhort of half the mart;
For he who drives their bargains driis a part.

To

This garden ;

oft";

a term of To DRI'BBLE. 'V. n. [This word feems
to have come from drop by fucceffive al-

''"/'

»ieith.

Shakiffare' s Machetk,
Too oft, alas! has mutual hatred lirewA'i
l-bilif!.
fwords in native blood.

to cut

;

cant word.

A fteed

In fwinirti fleep

ThM drenched Bitatti

<

In flow'ry wreaths the royal virgin drifi
His bending horns, and kindly clapt his breaft.

Well mouth'd well manag'd, which himfelf did

an ill fenfe.

The ap-

Wifeman.

5. To curry

6.

Stvrfr's DirePioni to the Cook.

the dreffer,

Dre'ssing. a. f. [from drefs.\
plication made to a fore.

houfe, handfomely drejfed uf, for the

Now

Dryden.

When you take down difties, tip a dozen upon

furnifh.

frelhnefs and

:

A

Dryden.

her.

to foak ; to fteep.
m
Our garments being as they were dref<cbtd
;

their
the fea, hold notwithiianding
Shah^can,
•glofies.
.,
•
To-day deep thoughts learn with me to d>;-mb
Mtlten.
draws.
In mirth, that after no repenting
dam the ditches, and the floods reftrain;
moifture has already drinch'd the plain.

•

fight.

To adorn; to deck ; to embelhlh ; to

4.

or prepared for the table.

'Tis burnt, and io is all the meat
What dogs arc thefe f Where is the rafcal cook ?
How durft you, villains? bring it from the drrfflr.
And fervc it thus to me that love it not ? ShaK
maple dre/Tcr in her hall (he had.

thoufand
the value of three hur>dred twenty-two
(hillings
nine hundred and fixteen pounds thirteen
f_'-^thn,t.
,
and four-pence.
3.

The bench in a kitchen on which meat
is dreft

LoUia Paulina wore, in Jewels, when dreffe'dcut,

Than we, tbeJngt and rubbifli of mankind.

To faturate with drink or moifture

3.

counterfeit imatinfel, and glafs gems, and

charm the
them up
poets drefsd
Till ^
^ to
•'

regulating, trimming, oV adjufting any thing.
in

Said he unto the dreffer of his vineyard, Behold,

Few admir'd the native red and white.

Becon,

One employed

thefe three years I come feeking fruit on this figLuke.
tree, and find none.

pjint and fmile, and drch themfelv^s

gery.

people, that
and leaven of the northern
towaids him.
were hefore in no gooJ affVftions

Drench, n.f.

It

;

iJ«£.

2.

Dryd-

To clothe pompoufly or elegantly.

ufed with up and out to enforce it.
is
Look upon pleafures not upon that fide that
beauteoully
next the fun, or where they look
enjoyed
be
;
that is, as they come towards you to

Any thing by which purity is corrupted.

Their

Dryden^s yuvenaJ.
t.

is

PofC'

To wa(h

She hurries a'l her hand-maids to the talk;

7\nd, as his birth requir'd, above the reft.
z.

Such run on ppets h> i raging vein,
bram.
Ev'n to the dreg' and Fqaeezings of the

1.

and adorning the perfon of another.
Her head alone will twenty drejen afk.

He made, was, like his brothers to be drefCd;

What the /ir!l fptightly running could not
Dryder.

A

.

The firil rcqueft

We from the drep of life think to receivegive.

cordial draught.

Themenof pleafure, i/rf/j, and gallantry. Pipe.
Dre'sser. ft./, [[torn dre/s.]
One employed in putting on the clothes
I

to invert with clothes.

;

Clerj/fa.

The (kill of adjufting drefs.

3.

To DRESS, v. a. {dreffer, French.]

And drink thicrfrf^s of therevengcr'swiath.SaiK/yj.

Heav'n-s f=*ou. itc thou, for better

to

Probably corrupted
make a proverbial

What flames, quoth he, when I the prefcnt fee
In daneer rather to be drent than brent ? Fairy

other blame. De-uiti.
If for the diegi we could tome
They often tread dciltuaion's hoi rid path,

3.

Full dreft creates dignity, augments confciouf.
ncfs, and keeps at diftance an encroacher.

rhyme to brent, or burnt.

grounds ; the feculence.
the wine.
Fain would we make liim author of

•

Splendid clothes ; habit of cere.mony.

2.

One that gives phyfick by force. DL1.

2.

Pope's Stdtwi,

'

Dre'ncher.»./ [from drench.]
thing.
1. One that dips or fteeps any

The fediment of liquors; the lees; the

2.

A
A dreft by fates and furies worn alone.

King Cbarlet.

drank if 1 liked it.

A channel of water.

an, Iflandick.]
1.

Drtflet laughed at in our forefathers wardrobes

or piiSures, when, by the circulation of time >ni
vanity they are brought about, we think becomGovernment ef tbe Tongut
ing.
robe obfcene was o'er his flnulders thrown,

leifurely

juice

out.

Dryden.

Phyfick that muft be given by violence.
Their counfels are more like a drcncb that muft
muft be
be poured down, than a draught which

4.

Ripe grapes being moderately prclTcd, their
fqufezsd
may, without much Jrcggy matter, be

DREGS. «./. [bpepen, Saxon

Dress. «./ [from the verb.]
1. Clothes; garment; habit.

A Jrttieb of wine has with fuccefs httn us'd.

whereby fm»ll bter i( tendered equal in mrfchief
Harviy en Conjumftkri.
to flrong.

dregs ;

D R I

D R E

D R E

/^rbulhmt CK jiliminls,
2.

To fall weakly and flowly.
Believe not. that the dribbling dart of love

Sbaiejpeare.
Can pierce a tiomplet- b>fom.
3. To flaver as a child or idiot.

rs Dri'bble.

i>.

a.

To throw down in

drops.
Let ihe cosk follow with a hdia full of foup,
ani drM'e it all the way up ftairs.
Swifl't Rk'cs to Ser:u:nti.

Dri'blet.

D R I

D R I

Dri'biet. n.f. [from driblle.1
fum ; odd money in a fum.

A fmall

de4.

There is a tale, that boiling «f daifv roots in
milk, which it is certain are great driers,
will

make dogs little.

Force impellent; impulle; overbearing influence.
A man bting under the drift of any paffion,
will «i!l follow the, impulfe of
it till fmech ng

I.

interpofc, and, b) a ftiocger impulfe,
turn

another wav.
,

J.

6.

The mighty trunk, half rent with rugged rife,
the rocks, and

wiih fearful

fall

So.-ne log, perhaps, upon the

1.

And drifts 01" riling duft involve the Iky.

Soft's Ojjjprj.
"^

.,

ci.

Drills

:

difcover'd

of

Swift.

none but
c

,-

ry,

i.

.

Thtmf;r>.

^iphan.

Sax. from 5u)i3h, through.]

To pierce any thing with a drill.
ThedriU.plate i. only a piece of flat
iron, «,rd
upon a flat board, which iron hath an
hole punched
a little way into it, to fet the
blunt end o» the
fliank of the drill in, when you
drill a hole.

2.

'^''^'""''
;

'^^"'"'"ical Excrcifts.

to bore ;

to pierce.

My body through and through he drilld
Ami Whacum by my fide lay klll'd.
lludibras.

Cw. \x

Zi

and dwells there long, then eating
and dri„kinz
not a frtving of God, but an inordinate

or.

To Dri UK to.

To falute in drinking

to invite to drink by drinking

1.

I

take yuur princely word for thole

firft.

redreffes.

—I gave it you, and will maintain my word
And ihsrcupon 1 drinl unto your grace.

Liquor

Sbukfjf.

to

be fwallowed; oppofed to

meat.

When God made choice to rear

is

;

,

Ill,

Drink, n.f. [from the verb.]

His mighty cham.nion, ftrong above compare,
Whofe drink Wis only from the liquid brook
!

2.

4.

yirbu/inot

on Coin.
^
f
r
to enforce the fenfe : ufually
of inanimate things.
The b.dy being reduced nearer unto the
earth
and emptied, becomcth more porous,
and grecily
dr,nkeih ,n KMcr.
Br,.wn, Tulgar Erroars

H.

aiition.

A colloquial phrafe.

an4

Soutb.

Alexander,

Taylor- s Rule of Living Ihly.

To feaft; to be entertained with liquors.
We tame to fight you
For my part, I am
forry it 11 turned to a drwkm£.
Sbakfpcar,-s ylnltny and Cleofatrd.
3. To drink to excefs ; to be an habitual

off,

.

after he had drank up a cup
of fourteen pints, was going to take jnother

Sbaitjfieare.

diink
and ihe made tlie camels drink

,

up, to note that the whole is drunk.

7.

[bpincan,

When delight is the only end, and reds in i'tfelf!

drunkard.

IT-

,

TT

embrace.

He </««* of the wine.

Not au

dr,fiid heaps.

_
r
To perforate

10 I draitk,

in the pa.

h.m that It IS a cordial, and fo he drinks it

the bordering

,

a fo i

South,

One man gives another 3 cup of poifon, a
thinir
as terrible as death ; but at the fame

pour their

ei
r 'J J
She
raid, drmk, and I will give tliy
camels

plain.

h^s

atlcnetk

ufed with the intenfive particles
of, up, and in. Off, to note a fingle aft
of drinking.

Here, between the armies.

From hlU to dale, ftill more and more adrav,
Jmpaticnt fljuncing through the

•

6. It is

Saxon.]
I. To fwallow liquors ; to
quench thirft.

He wanders on

I.

This I have

part. pair, drunk, or drunken,

thorifed.

r» DRILL, -v. a. [drillfu, Dutch;

down ali

Shakcjheari.

Beiihadad was drinking himfelf A^ni
vilions.

Ellis's Vi-jOfC.

,

poifon from thy eye.

To make drunk.

5.

Sesndys.

Let •» drink together friendly, and

Pope.
Pope.

.

drink down himfelf too.

To DRINK. 1: n. preter. Jrank, or drunk;

larjrr than fo many
grains of fand,

To throw together on heaps.

,.

He w.U drown li.s health and his ftrcngth in

Locke.

•"""•

To drive; to urge along.

drftid with the wind in clouds from every

.

time he tel «

Which fnake-like glide between

To Drift, -v. a. [from the noun.]
Snow, no

,

unkindnefs.

drills.

AdJifon

This, by the ftile, the manner, and
the drift,
fwas thuught could be the work

.

belly i and, after all his drunken
trophies,

Springs through the pleafant meadows

The main drft of his book being to
prove,

that what is true is impoffible
to be falfe, he op
pofe. nobody.
7-,;/^,/,_
I he driji of the pamphlet is to
ftir up our compalfion towards the rebels.

I

Come, we have a hot vcnifon pjfty to
dinnercome, gentlemen, I hope we Ihall drink

found no where elle, and fufpect it
Ihould
be ri/J.

Dar.,,1

Scope of a difcourfe.

told,

To ail upon by drinking.

4.

making fuch holei as

A fmall dribbling brook.

old.

joy.

T

An ape; a baboon.

3.

tiixlirr

For fome, ot many, will be falfe of courfe.

let a«s of gods, and heroes

1 drmk delicious

between a
changeling and a drill, when they
agree in fliape
and want of reafon ?

af>, proceeding

Their drift comes known, and they

!

Attjit>per'd to the lyre, your voice
employ 2
Such the pleas'd ear will drink with filent

Shall the difference of hair be a
mark of a dif.
fercnt internal fpecifick conftitution

from Cod, we are not able to dilce-n •
and therefore cannot always give
the proper and
certain reafin of his works.

I.

hcmius

What ancient ba.ds in hall and bow'r have

^

eternally

^

Sbakefpeare.

Thither write, my queen

And with mine eyes Til drmk the words j
you fend,
1 hough ink be made of gall.
Shakefl,. CymbeVme.

hole

Tendency or aim of aflion.
The part cular drf. of everj

8.

My ears Imve yet not drvnk a hundred words

as, a fntnudrifi,
2.

to

;

Of that tongue's uttering, yet 1 know the found.

tauzht
p.,,

,

are ufed for the

'

'^':!-

'

punches will not ferve for ; as a piece of
work
th.t hath already its Ihape, and
mull have an

L
AA heap
or ftratum of any mutter thrown

together by the wind
a deep body of fnovv.
7.

artificers.

town.
Sbakffpeare.

ii

and mechanical inftruments, we have

.

fee.

An inllrument with which holes are
bored. It is a point prefled hard
againft
the thing bored, and turned
round with
a bow and firing.
The wny of tempering fteel to make gravers,

drills,

^^' '*'"'"'-' (""^ the fouth

Sha'l rain their i/rj/i of bullets on tbis

^
b.

n,
take m by any inlet; to hear
3.10

Any thing driven or bom along in a

n
A» llorm;
a (hower.

Dryden.
.
.
fwceping (kirt too near the wall •

D
n.
Kiufh
not thy ,

TUmfa,.

body.

The reaoy racers (land ;
Swift as on wings of wind upborne
they fly.

ftem.

Thy heedlefs flecve will drM the colour'd oil.
.

Tiw foe appeal "d drawn up and drill d,
Ready to charge thtm in the field.
mdiirus.
Drilj.. »./. [from the verb]

4.

to abfcrb.

;

Set rows of rofcmary with f.ow'ring

;

fl

Sam. xxx. ii.

And let the purple violets drii:k the ftream.

7. To form to arms
to teach the military
exercife.
An old cant word.

And h llow-d, fi;ft a mating trough became.
And cr^s fome riv'lct paffage did bcjin. Dryden.

i

Lam. V. ^

To fuck up

2.

Driild through the fandy rtratum every way,

waters fwam.

applied to liquids.

:

We have drunken our water for money.

This fenfe

The waters with the Tandy ftratum rife.

An ufciefs drft, which rudely cut within,

5.

to draw flowly.

;

Shakeffeart.

three days and three nights.

wants better authority.

Any thing driven at random.

3.

To drain

Sbakefpeare.
to all the ca.

He had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water.

him, and arc able to drill him oa li j.-ti one
lewJneff tj anoth.-r, by the fame arti
they corrupt
and fquecje him.
5,^,^,_

«,.,-/,

.

To fwallow

1.

wit!iin

him

table.

7^ Dr INK. 1'. a.

A low

ftep.

•

7

valeroes about London.

To delay; to put off: in low phrafe
corrupted, I believe, from drawled.
She has bubbled him oat of his youth
Ihe
dnUrd him on to five-and-tifty, and Ihe will drop
him in his old age.
A<iai-r,.
When by fuch infinnaticns they hive once got

Violence ; courfe.
Doth roll adonn

T.n

1 11 drmk to mailer Bardolph, and

phrafe.

ocir.'i).

•

driU-bow in
Moxon.

To draw from ilep to

full

fill

And to our dear friend Banquo, whom we mifi,

:

Batrn

DRIFT, n.f. [from dri-vc.-]

Give me fome wine;

I drink to th" general joy of the whole

hold the drill-bow in their right hand
but, when
;
they turn fmali work, they hold the
their left hand.

To wilh well to in the

aft of taking the cup.

When a hole is drilltd in a piece of metal, they

ficcative.

To D R I N K /«.

.

10 make a hole.

3.

Dri'pr. »./ [from dry.'] That whicJi has
the quality of abforbing moillure ; a

J

Blacimori.

r-,

"

...

poles.

And to th' attraftive rays adapt their holes.

Twelve long years of" exile borne,
Twice twelve we number'd fince his bieft return
So ftiidlly wert thou ji to pay.
Even to the aribhUt of a djy.
Dryder..
_

Z.

D R 1

Tell, what could drill and perforate tf,e

.

2.

T

•

c

.

,

Milton,

.

Liquor of any particular kind.

We will give you rare and (lecpy drinks.

*"'*''*'//>"»•''« mnter's
Tale.
either watery or oily •
reckon .imong the watery all the
fruits out of

Tu
rr
1 he juices of fmin arc

I

which drwk IS exprcffed, as the grape,

and the pear.
O madnef., to think life of ftrongeft

the apple,
ti

wines.

And ftrongcft drinks, our chief fupport

of health !

Thefe, when th' allotted orb of time 's

complete,'

Are more commended than the labuur'd drink.
.

4* •

Pbilips,

AmoBgib

'

Amongft drMs, aufterc wiiift »re apt to oco».n t'.ul

fi

Aibuihntt

eruptions.

m j^lim(nii.

: with to.
Time dri:iet the flicks from field to fold.

When rivers rage and rocks grow cold.

were always alkinx for Jriitijiriuihnit.

muuy.

Dri'nkablb. aJJ. [from liriai.] Potable ; fuch as may be drank.
Dri'nker. ». yi [fronnJii/iL'] One that
It were good for thcfc that have moift brains,
and are great drinken, t) take fume of lignum,
aloes, rofcmaty, and frankincenfc, about the full
Bacon.
of the moon.
The drinker and debauched pcrfon is the objcft
Souih,
of fcorn and contempt.

The urine of hard Jriitkers affords a liquor eitrsmely fetid, but no inflammable fpirit: what is
Snflammible flays in the blood, and affcds the
Great dr'mktn commonly die apopleaicltbrain.

To impel to greater fpeed.
To guide and regulate a carriaje.

7.
8.

wheels,

He took off their chariot

To convey animals

9.

to

;

j4drfifcfl.

Which driff'iKg rocks, not rowling ftreams, fupply.
Drydert'

The fined fparks, and cleaned beaux,

To Da. IP. 'V. a.

To hurry on inconfiderately.
fin and de ith.

Let what was put into bis bel!y, and what he

^a/«»'i ^nf'cr.

Jrifs, be his fauce.

His cffer'd entrails Ihall his crime reproach.
And drip their fatnefs from the hazle broach.
Drydens Virgil.

Dr IP. » / [from the verb.]

That which

drops.
Water may be procured for neccfTary occafions

falls In

heavens, by prefcrving the

of the
Mortimer-

dii;>i

houfes.

Dr.i'ppinc. n. f. [ham drip."] The fat
which houfewives gather from road meat.
Shev« all hf-r fecreis of hnufekceping ;
For candles how (he trucks her dripping.

Sivi/r-

Dri'ppingpan. n. /. [drip, and pan.']
The pan in which the fat of roaft meat

b caught.
When the cook turns her back, throw fmoaking
.Siuift

coals into the diijifUfpan.

This word
it ufed fomewhere by Fair/ax for weak,
or rare ; dripfiUyhot.

Dri'pple, adj. [from drip.]

To DRIVE, v. a. preterite dro-ve, anciSaxon;

dryven, Dutch.]

To produce motion in any thing by violence : as, the hammer drives the nail.
2. To force along by impetuous preflore.
1.

He builds a bridge, who neyer</r»ti<a pile. Pofe.

On helmets helmets throng.
Shield prefa'J on ftiirld, and man drmumin al-ng.
Pope.

To expel by force from any place
with from.
Driven frem his native land to foreign grounds,
Jle with a gen'rous rage refent» his wounds.

The Romans did not think that tyranny was
thoroughly extinguilhed, till they had driven one of
their confuls to depart the city, againft whom they
found not in the wirld what to objeft, faving only
Hooker.
that his name was Tarquin.
He was drivn by the neceiTities of iime5, more
than led by his own difpnfition, to rigour. K. Cha.

13.

To diflrefs ; to ftraighten.
This kind of I'pccch is in the manner of defpe-

rate men far driven.

But left the helm, and let tlie vefi'el drive.
Drydens jEneid,

To rulh with violence.

2.

Fierce Boreas drove agaiufl his flying fails,
Drydens uSncid,
Near as he draws, thick harbingers of fmoke

And rent the flicets.

With gloomy pil!ars cover all the place;
Whofe little intervals of night are broke
By fparks that drive againfl his facrcd face. Dryd.
Tlien with fo fwifc an ebb the flood drove back*
ward,
It flipt from underneath the fca'y herd.
Drycitns All for Love,
The bees drive out upon ea-.h other's backs,

Spenfirs Stale of Ireland.

T'imbofs thrir hives in cluflers. Dryd. Don Sebaft,
While thus he flood,

14. To urge by violence, not kindnefs.

Perithous' dart drove on, and naii'd him

He taught the gnfpel rather than the law.
And forc'd himfelf to drive, but l»v'd to driw.

wood.

Now with the current drives, now with the gale

To

She feels a doubc force, by turiis obeys
Th' imperious tempeft, and ch' impetuous feas.
Dryden,

Shak.jlitoulikeit.

to a living humour of madnefs.
Difcontents druve men into Hidings. K.Cber/es,

The wolves fcampered away, however, as hard

Lord Cottington, being mailcrof temper, and of
well
the moft piofound diliimulation, knew 'too
h.iw to lead him into a miftake, and then drive him
int<)

a little

To urge

pope's Iliad,

;

There is a litter ready; lay him in 't/
Sbakefp. King Lear,
And drive tow'rd Dover.
Thy flaming chariot-wheels, that fliook

Locke.

to prefs to a conclufion.

Heav'n's everlafting frame, while o'er the necks
Milton,

Thou drov'P of warring angels difarray'd.

The experiment of wood that fliineth in the
dark, we

have diligently driven and purfued ;

the

rather for that, of all things that give light here
below, it is the raoft durable, and hath Jeall apparent motion.

To pafs in a carriagei

3.

burning pufhes us more powerfully

than greater plcafures in profpeft.

16.

Thick as autumnal leaves, or driving fand.
The moving fquadrons blacken all the ftrand.

Paul;

where we may fee what drives men into a conjugal
life;

BMon's Natural Hiftiry.

We have thus the proper notions of the four elements, and both them and their qualities <ir)VfB up
aud rcfolved into their mo!t fimple principles.
Dighf on Bodies.

To dri*e the argivracnt farther, let us inquire

To tend to; to confider as the fcope

4.

and ultimate defign.
Authors dri-ie at thele, as the higheft elegancies,
which a:c but the frigidities of wit.
Brofton*s Vulgar Errours,

We cannot widely miftake his dilcourfe, when
we have f.iund out the point he drives at. Locke,
They look no further befosc them than the next

particular point, either the

17.
if

fit

We

5»oi/>.

To carry on ; Co keep in motion.
As a farmer cannot hufband his gro.ind fo well,
he

can driue to no certain point, but ramble from one
Dryden,
fubjeO to another.
have done our work, and are come within
view of the end that wo have b.:cn driving -au
AJdifin on the ffar^

condemnation or ac-

quittal.

at a great rent;

fo the

merchant cannot

drive his trade fo well, if he lit at great ufury Bjcoh.
.

whence it will inevitably follow, that they

line;

architeO.

into the obvious defigns of this divine
Cheyne's PhVof. Prircipl.s.
The defign of thefc orators was to drive fome

Dryden't yirgj.

L^Efirange,

as they could drive,

Clarendon.

cholsr.

It is better to marry than to born, fays St.

to the

Dryden*

As a (hip, which winds and waves affail.

Dryden.

impel by influence of paffion.
15.
Idmvemi fuitor ftom his mad humour of love

His ignominious n'jbt the viflors D)a(l,
Beaux l»>3i(h bcaux, and fwordkiwts fwordknots
fppe.

Sidney.

done for his.

driven, or drove,

bpipan,

driven to difmount, threatened, if I did not

H»,

Stv-ft

tbivt,

t on their time by the periods of

the like, to do as much for my horfe as fortune had

To drop fat in roafting.

3.

:

Taylor.

Which from the thatch dripi faft a fliow'r of rain.

Gothick ;

lldrives away at will, to every wave a fcorn. Dryd,
Nor with the rifmg ftorm would vainly drive ;

Moi^ mifcrable if fuch unfkilfulnefs.make them
dri

Her flood of tears
Seem like the lofty barn of fome rich fwain,

[dreilian,

.eifiham.

plain profe.

To let fall in drops.

pafl".

The needle endeavours to conform unto the
meridian ; but, being diltra^cd, driveth that way
where the greater and powerfuller partoftbc earth
Brcwns Vulgar Etrours.
js place'
Love, fixt to one, flill fafc at anchor rides.
And dares the fury of the winds and tides
But lofing once that hold, to the wide ocean born,

To force; to compel.
For the metre fake, fome words in him fometirr.e
in
berfrk-CT! awry, which requ]re ftraighter placing

Frier.

Drif) from the (boulders to the toes.

ently drove ; part

agent.

11.

I J.

To expel.
9'ij Drivb o«/.
Tumults and their exciters drave myfelf and

To Drive. i>. n.
I. To go as impelled by any external

To drive the country, force the fvvains away. Dryd.

Such as in fruitful vales we view from high,

fowe fay to

they forthwith drave out their governour, and received the Turks into the town. Knolles's Hiftery.

Thrrc find a herd of heifers, wand'ring o'er

The reiglib'ring hill, and drive 'em to the (hire.

To clear any place by forcing away

:

many of both houfesout of their places. K. Charles.
As foon as they heard tlie name of Rofcetes,

march along under guidance.

We come not with defign of wafteful prey.

li cloat!i'd with gr ifs, and fruitful to be tiU'dj

from tiie

19.

make animals

what is in it.

The foil, with fatt'ning moillurc fill'd,

».

that they

£x. xiv. 25.

rfrwf them heavily.

Collier.

To purify by motion

dri-ve feathers.
His thrice driven bed of down.
Shakeff.
The one 's in the plot, let him be never fo innocent ; and the other is as white as the driven fnow,
let him be never fo criminal.
L'EJIrangt,

He flood and mcafured the eatthi he '>ehel'i>
Hai. iii. 6.
and drove afunder the nations.

10.

To fall in drop?.
To have drops falling frora it.

I.

18.

To force or urge in any direftion.

6.

Tiie trade of life cannot be driven withrait part,
ners.

Chevy Chafe,

Earl Percy took his way.

ytrbutbni^t cti j^limcrtt.

To DRIP. V. n. [drifpen, Dutch.]
2.

Dryden,

Your Pafimond a lawlefs bargain drove,
The fa-ent could not tell the daughter's love. Dry.

Drydcni Dai Seiaftian.
/«« the net.
5. To chafe ; to hunt.
To Jrivt the deer with hound and horn

drinks to excefs ; a drunkard.

1.

Sbakefp.

Fate has driveg 'cm all

Money given to buy liquor.
fcrvincs

The ben hare common cities of their »w«.
And common fort; beneath or.elaw thoy live.
And with one common flock their traffick drhe.

To fend \>y force to ajiy place

4..

Drink-money. »./. [Jrini and moaey.]
Ptg'i

D R J

D R I

D R I

5.

To aim ; to ftrike at with fury.
Four tojues in buckram let drive at me.
^

Sbakefptart's Ifenry IV.

At Auxur's fliield he dreve, and »t the Mow
Both fliield and »rm to ground together go.
Drydeni j^nfjd*
6. To tfrive, in all its fenfes, whether active or neuter, n\ay ' e obferved to retain
a fenfe compounded of violence and progreffion.

The (leighbourin J mountains, by reafon of their
height, are moreexpofed to the dews and drizxling
rains than any of the adjacent parts. Addif. on Italy.

to

let

met with this Chremes, a JrrveUng old fellow,

lean, (baking buth of head and hands, already half
earth, and jet thep mod greedy of earth. Sidnr/.

from him, but would be
forced to drivtl like ibme paralvticfor a fuol.

No man could

fpit

Grrw*

To be weak or fbolifli

2.

;

thing into the common ftock,

underftood a
drone ; a flug-

Here while his canting drove-pipe fcann'd

The myftic figures ot her hand',

To D B o I L.

To work fiuggifhly and

'v.n.

He tipples palr.ieftry, and dines
On atl her fortune-telling lipes.

flowly ; to plod.

To Drone,

Let fuch vile vaiTals, born to bafe vocation.
Drudge in the world, and for their living t^oil.
Which have no wit to live withoutcn toyle. Sfxnjer,
Detuctude does contra<S and narrow our taculties, fo that we can apprehend only thofe things in

which we

to dote.

are converiant :

the droiling

DROLL. «./
1.

I bate to fee a brave bold fellow lotted,

Cleavelaitd^

«.

Frr.m a long reftive race of drcn'mg kings ? Dryd*

To give a heavy dull tone.

2.

Melfoil and honcyfucklcs pound,

With thefe alluiing favours ftrew the grnund,
And mix with tinkling brafs the-cymbaPs drcning

[drchr, French.]

One whofe bufiuefs is to raife mirth by
a jefter ;

'v.

Why was not I the twentieth by dcfcent

peal'anc

Government of the Tcngue.

bouring markets.

.

[from the noun,]
To live in idlenefs ; to dream.
What have 1 loft by my forefathers fault!

1.

fcarce thinks there is any world beyond the neigh-

This drhielhg love is like a great nauiral, that
runs lolling up and d'^wii to hide his bauble.
Shiiijfairei Rorrn and Julicl.

Addijcn.

The hum, or inftrument of humming*

3.

gard.

tard.
I

A

:

A

Juitias

contraAion of drive/.]

the fpittle fall in
drops, like a child, an idiot, or a do;

an idler.
He fleeps by dajr

dronei hive not with me,
Therefore I pait with him.
SbakeJ^eare*
Sit idle on the houftiold hearth,
burd'nous drone, to vifitants a gase.
Mihon»
It is my misfortune to be married to a drctie,
lives,
upon
v^hat
1
ger,
witiiout
who
bringing any

Drydcn's firgil.

To flaver

;

More than the wild cat

fmall rain.
This during winter's driicxh) reign be done.
Till the new raai receives th' exalted fun.

dribble, drivel.]

A fluggard

2,

"Dm'zzLr. adj. [from dV/zz/is.] Shedding

To DRl'VEL. -v. n. [from drip, dripph, DROIL. ti. /. [by
1.

D R O

D R O

D R I

Drydext

f)jnd.

Dro'nish. ad/', [from drone,]

a buftbon ; a

Made four and lenf::lefs, tum'd to whey, by love;

petty tricks ;

A drivelirg hero,

jackpudding.

gifh ;

As he was running home in all hafte, a tiro//
takes him up by the way,
L^ Efirttrge*
Why, how now, Antirew? cric$ his brother (/ro/Zi

aiSive.

To-day*s conceit, mechioks, is fomcthing dull.
PWor.
Democrrtus, dear </«/// revifit earth,

Roufe ar.d prepare once more to take pofleflion,

fit

for a romance.

X)rydeit.

Dri'vel. n.f. [from the verb.]
Slaver; moifture fhed from the mouth.

I.

Befidss th' eternal dri'vel, that fupplics

The dropping beard, from noftrils, mouth, and eyes
Drydtr.

A fool

an idiot ; a driveller.
fenfe is now out of ufe.

z.

;

This

6idnfy-

!

Millioni of years this old drivel Cupid lives.
While (till mote wretch, more wicked, he doth
Sidney
prove.

Dri'veller. n./. [from </r»W.] A fool

A farce

;

For lofty lines in Smithficid droUs,
[iirSie, ¥x\'\

Such auguft defigns as

I have heard the arranted drmeUen commended

for their ibrcwdncfs, even by men of tolerable judg-

ment.

Svi'tft,

Participle of </nw.

Tfaey were drhtn forth from among men.
•JU, XXX.

Stvift.

To jeft

I rtnd

Saiidyt'

The driver runs up to him immediately, and
VEfirtnge.

Let virtuofos infulr and dcTpire on, yet they

When by impulfe from heav'n Tyrtaus iung,

Idle

In^d'Gifing fol licrs a new courage fprung. Rofiom*
Oin flovv'rs but d'oop in abfcnce of the fun.

Which wjic'd their fweets ? and mine, atas

The multirude or common rout, like a drove ot
or an herd of oxen, may be managed by any

ftieep,

noifeorcry which their ^rtvn-lhallaccuftom them
to.
Scuit-

One who drives a carriage.

is

faid

N-r the fierce driver with more fury lends

To ftied in fmall flow

When faOinu? rjge to crui-l exile drove

DromedarUi are fmaller than cr>mm3n cumelt,
Henderer, and mote nirnbie j and are of two kinds
one larger, with two fmall bunches, covered with
hair, en its back; the other telfcr, with cnc
hairy eminence, and more frequently call'jd camel
both arc capable of great fatigue. Their h::ir \f
(oh and (h)rn j they have no farg* and foreteeth, nor horn upon their feet, which are only covered with a fle/hy /kin ; and they are abo-.u fcven
feet and a half high, from the ground to the t.pof

1 \\'i rr»ufts drcop^dy/\.\\ their forfaken arts. Dryd*
I'll

:

drops, as iviiiter rains.

their heads.

SccCamkl.

Culiret.

Straw for the horfei and dromedar'u: brought tiu:y

WiIkd the fun lets, the air doth </rrssa/; dew. Sh>
Though now this face of mine be hid
In fap-cf-rifuming winter's drizix>led fnow.
And ill the conduiti t\f wy blood froze up,
Yer hath my night cf life feme memory. Ktihlf.

To fall in ihort flow

drops.

And drivxting drops, that often do rediund,
Trcfirmr.a Hint doth in continuancewear. Sfienjer*
Her heart did melt in great compafiion.
And dnm/ing tears did Ibed for pure affeftion.
Fairy a^uetn.

This day will poor down.
If I conjrflure anght, no driza/.rp (how'r,
But iitUin^ liotoi of arrows b;iib'd with fire. Milt.

unti-.

the pi; ce.

1

Is

The queen of beauty jnd the coun of love,

to travel a hundred miles a-dav.

Kingt.

Mules, after thefc camels stnA dromedaries,

And wjigijons frjujiht with uienl'lT c-l'war, Mihon
DRONE, n.f. [bpoen, Saxon.J
I. The bee which makes no honey, and is
therefore driven out by the reft.
The fad-eyed jufticc, with his fuily hum,

animate the foidiers drooping couiage

With love of freedom and contempt of life.
Addifon'i Cato,

faw him ten days before he died, and obTerved
itiv'ift*
he began very much la droop and langui/h,
I

:

The founding lafh, and, ere the ilroke defcends,
Low to the wheels his pliant body bends. Diyd'yirg,
To DRl'ZZLE. -J. a. [dri/elcn, German,

!

Dryden,

gone.

Time fecms not now beneath his years to ftoop,
Nor do his wings with fickly feathers droop* Dryd*

Dro'medary. n.f. [dromtiiaret Ital.)
A fort of camel fo called from its fwiftnefs, be
it

;

a hake]p He re*

Scuil*

Governmfnt of the Tcnvue.

caufe

my zenith doth depend upon

whofe influence
If n-'iw i cuuit r.iit, but omit, my fortunes
Sbakejpcai'e'i Tempep,
Will ever after drcop*
Co^)d things of day begin to dro'.p and drowl'e,
While night's black agents to their prey do roufe,

chriftians faichy aud the atheiiis drollery upun it.

He from the many-peopled city flies ;

to grow weak ; to be difpi-

A mofV aufpicious ftar

GU

i

;

rited.

ufed to be decided by drollifg tantaflicks, that have
only wit enough to make others and themfelve^.
nnf'dls*
rid c ulou s.
Men that will not be reafoRed into their renlcd,
may yet he laughed or drolled into theni.

Coctemns their labours, and the driver's cries.

To Dri'/izlb. 1/. It.

To faint

2.

jokes ; buffoonery.
They hang between heaven and hell, borrow the

3. One who drives beads.

to (tied dew.]

My

;

V Eft range.

s-

motion by violence.

3,

To languifh with forrow.

inrpire your inquiries,

Dm'vER. ».yr [horn dri've.']
never (hall be able to druU away ni^ture.
I. The pcrfon or inllrument who gives any
Dro'llerv. /»._/; [from ^reh\]

teats him atmolt to death.

hood,

Conceiving the difhonour of his mother,He,llra'ght deciin'd, droop^dy took it deeply ;
on*t in himfelf, Sbak,
Farten'd and fix'd the fhai.
1 drocpy with ftruggling fpent;
Sandys,
thougiits are on my forrows bent.

Some as jtiflly Tame extols,

To Daoll, Tf, n.

The dronifimonkifihe fcorn and Ihame of man-

1.

fomething exhibited to raife

mirth.

to play the buffoon.

an idiot ; a flaverer.

Dm'vEN.

2.

dreaming; lazy; indolent; un-

Rczve*
To ne(Hc in their ancient hives again.
Jo Droop. <v. n, [aVo^, forrow, Dutch.]

AHd-.vithourto]!iesgIut chyhcighten'd mirth. Prisr.

What fool am I, to mingle that drivitt fpeechcs
among my noble thoughts

Idle ; ilug-

3.

To fmk to lean downwards
monly by weaknefs or grief
;

:

com-

I never from thy fide henceforth muft ftray,
Wherever our day's work lies i though n»w etijoin'd
,

Laborious, till day droop,
Afi'tcn't Paradij'e Loft,
"His head, tln^ugh gay,
Carnat'rtn, purple, azure, or fpeck'd with gold,
Hying drooping , unfuftain d. Milton i Parad'ife Lrjf,
Onher hcav'd boftm hung her drooping head,

Which with a figh fhe rais'd, and this flje faid.
Pop*,

DROP. n,f- [bnoj^pa, Saxon.]
as much liquor
I. A globule of moilture
;

Delivering o'er to executors pale

The laiy yawning dront.

Staijf. Henry V.

Luxurious kin^s are to their people lult }

They live, like dronei, upon the publick coll.
Dryden't .4arengx.ehe.
All,, with united force, combine to drive'
The laay drma from the Uboriou.t hive.

Prydea'i f'irgil.

a.^

falls at once

when there is not a con-

tinual iheam.

Meet we the moJVine of our ccnntry's we.i!,
Ar.d with him pour we, in our country's purge,
Shtiketpetire'i Macbeth*
Ej^Ii .irop of us.
Wliercas Ariflotlc Tells us, that if a drop of wine
be put into ten tiioutaud mcaluro of water, the

wiui)

PRO

D R O

D R O

wine, being orerpoweicj by to vjft i qumtity of

Or fporting, with quick glinee,

water, will be turned into it j he fpealu very improbably.
Bcflt.

Sh^w to the fun tlieir wav'd coats, </re^/'V with

Admiring in the gloomy Oiade,
Thofe little dnfi of light.
Ifalkr.
Had 1 but known that Sancho wai bis father,
I w-ouid have pour'd a deluge of my blood
To l'j\e oi:e drcf of his. DryHn'i S/anifi> Friar.
a. Diamond hanging in the ear.

The JrDft to thee, Brillante, we confignj
And, Momentilla, let the watch be thine.

The quality of meicy is not lliain"d

Pcfe.

Pjalm Ixvii. 8.

Milton's ParaM/i LcJI.

2.

'l"o let fall

To fall

Drytten.

live, till, like

To fall in death

5.

;

Lcgick.

come to nothing

greffion.
St. Paul's epiftlet contain nothing but points of
Chrillian inftruftion, araongft which he feldnm

to drop in the great

Collier on Dtffair,

but by giving didurbance at his entry : and therefore takes care to drop in when he thinks you arc

After having given this judgment in its favour,
they fudjcniy ,>-o;./ the puifuit. Sharp's Surgny.

To quit a mailer.

7.

1 have beat the hoof till I have worn out thefe
does in your fcrvice, and not one penny left nie t
buy more; fo that you mud even excufe me if 1

drp you hc.e.

L'Eflrtnge.

To let go a dependant, or companion,
without farther affociation.
She drilled him on to five-and-fifty, and will
drop him in bis old age, if /he can find her account

.

in another.

9.

Addjlon.

So doth the fire the drjjfy gold refine, Dfvies.
For, by the fire, they emit not only many
and fcorious parts, but whatfoever they had received either from earth or loaddone.

dr^

Browns Vulgar Errturst
Worthlefs ; foul ; feculent.
Your intention hold,

Define.
Of wading candles.
That which drops when the continuous

•As fire thefe drojjy rhymes to purify.
Donne.
Or as elixir to change them into gold.
Dro'tchel. n.f. [corrupted perhaps from
dretchel. To dretch, in Chaucer, is to idle,

And rhyme with all the rage of impotence. Pope.

Strain out the laft dull droppings of your fcnfc.

Dro'plet. n. /.

To fuffer to vanilh, or come to nothing.

which

to fpcckle ; to variegate
;
withfpots, Variis Jidlatui cerfara guttis. I

parts ; full of drofs.

2.

Mention either of the kings ofSpain or Poland,
»nd be Ulks notably j but if you go out of the Ga.
lette, you drop him.
jiddijotu

i: To bedrop

Full

adj.

Thrifty wench fcrapcs kitchen-duff,
And barrelling tie droppitgi and the fnuff

ftream ceafes.

Opinions, like fa/hions, always defccnd from
thofe of quality to the middle fort, and thence
to
the vulgar, whcrt they zxt dnfpid ioi vanilh.

1.

That which falls in drops.

irifftd them.

Thus was the fame of our Saviour perpetuated
by foch records as would prcferve the traditionary
account of him to after-ages ; and reftify it, if, by
pafflng through feveral generations, it might dl-op
4oy part that was material.
Addifon.

•

2.

Boyli,

[from drofs.'\
of fcorious or recrement! tious

Dro'ssy.

Dro'pping. h./. [from </ro/.]
t.

fuftens us for the imprelfion of God's

damp.

To fall (hort of a mark.

They have no fooner fetched themfelves up to
the falhion of tjic polite world, but the town has
AJdjfon.

The furnace of affiitiion refines us from earthly
drijjinefs, and

Often it drops or ovcrflioots by the difproportions
Collier.
of didancc or application.

>

8.

Speilator, No ^g.

juft feated.

9.

Foul-

nefs ; feculence ; ruft.

"Some old acquaintance, drop into the place,
Carelefs and qualmid), with a yawning face.
Dryden.
He could never make any figure in company,

Vrhtre the ail is unmanly or immoral, we ought
to drop our hopes, or rather never entertain them.

difpofc us to piety

Dro'ssiness. n.f. [irom droffy.'\

Either you come not here, or, as you gr^ce

Ltclte.

Such precepts exceedingly

and religion, by purifying our fouls from the droft
and filth of fenfual delights.
lilkifn.

To come unexpe£ledly.

8.

and diftinguilhing doc-

To intermit; to ceafe.

6.

to vanilh; to
a familiar phrafe.

filence ;
:

Refufc ; leavings ; fwcepings ; any
thing remaining after the removal of the
better part ; dregs ; feculence'; corrup->
tion.
Fairproud, now tell mewliy Ihould fair be proud,
Sith all world's glory is but drofs unclean ;
And in the rtiadc of death itlclf diatl duoud.
However now thereof ye little w ecn ?
Spenftr,
That mod divine light only diineth on thole
minds which are purged from ali worldly drofs and
Rnlcigh,
human unclcanneis.
All treafures and all gain edeem as drofs.
And dignities and pow'rs, all but the highcd. Milt.

Virgil's friends thought fit to let drop this inciAddifon'sTra-ueh.
dent of Helen.
I heard of threats occafioned by my verfes : I
fent to acquaint them where I was to be found, and
fo it dropped.
Pope.

To infcrt indireflly, or by way of di

trines f^f our holy religion.

To die.

To fink into

7.

Addijon*

beautiful.

3.

Nothing, fays Seneca, fo foon reconciles us to
thoughts of our own death, as the profpecl of
one friend after another dropping round us.
D:gby to Pope.

Drof not thy word againft the houfe of Ifaac.

fails

2. Ruft; incruflation upon metal.
An emperor, hid under a crud of drofs, after
cieanfing, has appeared with all his titles frcdi and

tlie

(hapcs.

To Utter (lightly or cafually.

5.

Sprnfer.

Should the nsiiture of a little drofs condrain the
chuiCh to deprive herfelf of fo much gold, rather
than learn how, by art and judgment, to make fchookrr*
paration of the one from the other ?

Sbakijpeare.

6.

ot compounded beings ; becaufe they drcf their bo-

4.

MiUon.

your prefurmife.
That in the dole of blows your fon might drop.

For certain friends that arc both his and mine,

ff^iirts't

And every one did fwink, and every one did fweat.

to die fuddenly.

It was

Whore loves I may nor dr-.p.
Stakeff. Macbcib.
Thofe who have aflumed vlfible Vhapes for a
feafon, can hardly be reckoned among this order
4iiet, and dived themfelves of thofe vifible

came.

Some dirr'd the molten ore with ladles great,

ripe fruit, thou

diop
Into thy mother's lap ; or be with eafc
Gathcr'd, not hardily pluck'd.

the pofTellion.

The recrement or deipumationofmeialt.
Some fcumm'd the drofs that from the metal

Ciryre.

So mayd thou
S'.vifi,

Though I could
With birefacM power fwecp him from my fight.
And bid my will avouch ir ; yet I mud nor.

1.

To fall fpontaneoufly.

4.

To let go; to difoi LPs from the hand, or

3.

DROSS, n.f. [bfoj-, Saxon.]

;

the fun's body.

St. John himfelf will fcarce forbear

To bite his pen and dr'tp a tear.

Sharp,

adipofa.

to come from a higher place.
Hhilofophers conjcfture that yiu dropped from
the moon, or one of the ftars. GuUrver'i Traveli.
In every revolution, approaching nearer and
nearer to the fun, this comet mud at lad drop, int'j

Others o'er chimney tops and turrets row,
A.id dnf their anchors on the meads below. Dryd,
One only ha^ remain'd :
Propp'd on her trufty (laff, not half upright,
And draff d an aukward court'fy to the knight.

-

fation of water lodged in the cells of the mcmbrana

Dryden's ^r.iid.

3.

!i>>iincj.

An anafai'ca, a fprcles of dreffy, is an extravi-

Beneath a "rock he figh'd alone.
And cold Lycaeus wept from evciy drtppirg ftone.
Vryden.

Hit r.cavens (hall drofiuvm dew. Dtut. xx«iii.i8.

from a higher place.

the parts ftufFed.

The cruel nation, covetous of prey,
Stain'd witji my blood th' unhofpitable coaft.

To Drop. f. a. [bpoppan, Saxon.]

To pour in drops or fingle globules.

whereby digettion is weakened, and all

While cumber'd with my droffirg cloaths I lay,

thick a drcf^/trme lijth qucnch'd their orbs,

1.

good alone

Shjtefpiari' i Air s vitll ihtt ends luelU

Isgood.

Upon the place beneath. Sioi. Mtnh. of Vmet., -DRO'PSY. n.f. [^<j'rc/j. Latin ; whence
To let drops fall ; to difcharge itfelf in
anciently hydropijy, thence dropify, drop.
drops.
A colleition of water in the body,
J}."]
The heaveni dioppcd at the prefence of God.
from too lax a tone of the folids,

2.

inTpiflation ofthe humour.
I

It is a drop/ed honour :
;

from heaven

It drcpfeib as the gentle rain

[ftotn Jrofjif.] Difeafcd

with a dropfy.
Where great addition fwells, a nd virtuenone,

To fall in drops, or fingle globules.

1.

Arhuthnct on M-.mer.ts.

bluod.

Dro'psied. fl<^'.

T» Drop. oi. «.

A difeafe of thf eye, proceeding from an

Or (Jim fuffjlioh vcil'd

Miller.

gold.

Drop Serene. »./ [gutiajirena, Lat.]
Sii

ilkalefcent nature of the falts in the ferum of the

From niggard nature fall.

Shake/prare't Timon.

n.f. [elro^ a.nd^one.']

formed into the Ihape of drops.

Droch, in Frifick, is delay.'\
a fluggard.
In Scot;

An idle weoch

Thou abhorr'dd in us our human griefs,
Scorn'd our brine's flow, and thofe our droplets,

Dro'pstone.

to delay.

A little drop.

tilTi it is ftill

1

generally

They brought to their dations many droves of
and within a few days were brought out
of the country two thoufind muttons. Haynvord.
A Spaniard is unacquainted with our northern
Brcivn.
droves.

plant of various fpccies.

Dro'psical. cii/J. [from '^''fj}-] Difeafcd

ought to be fuch 19 is oppolice to, and fubdueth, the

:

cattle i

A

with a dropfy ; hydropical ; tending to
a dropfy.
The diet of nephritick and dropfitnl perfons

A body or number of cattle
ufed of oxen or black cattle.

Spar

fVooJiu.

Dro'pwort. n.f. {drop and luort.']

ufed.

Drove, n.f. [from drive.']

2.

A number of (heep driven. To an herd
of oxen we regularly oppofe, not a
drove, but i. flock, of (heep.
A drove of Ihecf, or an herd of oxen, may be
^anjged

D R O

.

The founds and feas, with all rheir finny drove.

Now CO the muon in wavering morrice move.

Galleys might be drnoned in the h»rbour with
the great ordnance, before they could be rigged.

Kroltui HiJIiry,

To overflow ; to bury in an inundation

3.

A crowd

; a tumult.
But if to fame alone thott doft pretend,
The nnifer will his empty palace lend,
Set wide with doors, adornM with plated brafs.

4.

Not now ufed.

Tliis is fought indeed ;

to lofe in any thing.
Moft men being in fenfual pleafures drowned.
It fecms their fouls but in their fcnfes are. Daviei,

difccrningof the lefVer lights, is 3 popular errour.

:

To Drown, t;. ».

Mi/ton.

that they foretold earthquakes and Aorms, great
Jreughts, and great plagues.
Temf'Ie*
In a drought, the thirfty creatures cry.
And gape upon the gathcr'd clouds for rain. Dryd.

To be fuffocated in the

There be, that keep them out of fire, and yet
was never burned ; that beware of water, and yet
was never nigh drowning, jijlham^t Schoolmajler.
Methoughi what pain it was to droivn 1

What! leadful noife of waters in my ears
Shak.
To DROWSE, -v. a. [Jroojin, Dutch.] To
make heavy with fleep.
There gentle fleep
Firft found me,

To fluraber

r.

a. Thirft ; want of drink.
Hit carcafe, pin'd with hunger and with drcugbi.

;

to grow heavy with fleep.
All their ffiape

Spangled with eyes, more numerous than thofe
Of Argus ; and more wakeful than to drnoje,
Charm'd with Arcadian pipe.
Milt.Parad. Lop.

Sfiy.

places.

and with foft opprcfiion feiz'd

My dri,iofed {cTift% uncontroU'd. Mill. Farad. Lcfi
To Drowse, t. n.

land-fnailsinnumerablecomeout of their lurking-

To look heavy

not cheerful.
They rsther drotui'd, and hung their eyelids
down.

2.

One, whofe drought

Yet fcarce allavM, ftill eyes the current (Ireim,

;

Slept in his face, and render'd fuch afpeft
As cloudy men uftto their adverfaries.

Wholi: liquid murmur heard new thirft cxcitc<.
MVf.n.

Shakejf. Henry VI.

Drou'chtiness. n.f. [from Jraughty."] Dro'wsily. aJiv. [from drtnvjy.']
The Hate of wanting rain.
1. Sleepily
heavily ; with an inclination
;

to fleep.
The air fwarms thick with wand'ring deities,
Whicii drcntjfingly like humming beetles rife.

'\

Wanting rain;

fultry.
That a camel, fo patient of long thirft, ihould
he bred in fjth dr'Mvbty and parched countries,
where it ii'of foch eminent ufc for travelling over
Oidrrfrf and Tandy defarts wh^-re no water is Co
be had, mull be acknowledged an a£l of provi'lencc
and delign.
Rnj on Crealhn,

2.

Thirlly ; dry with thitft.

Dro'wsinesj. n.f. [from <iVuti^.]

3.

If the former years
Eihibil no fupplies, alas thou mud
With taflelefs water wa(h thy droughty throat.

Vryden.

'

Sluggiftily ; idly ; flothfully ; lazily.
Wc latisfy our undeiftanding with the firft
things, and, thereby fatia:ed, flothfully and droioRaleigh.
ft!y fit down.

I .

Sleepinefs ; heavinefs with fleep ; dif-

!

Pl-i/lfi.

To DiowN. v. a. [from d.-unJeit, below,
German, Skinner; from bjruncman. Sax.
Mr. Lje.]
They W'

'

''ivn rhofe that ref-ifed to
Itream.
fwim ttow
King Charlrt.
f..
-.-..-.
When
...i.-tiC only eight he tojnd
the
waf"ry
fram
grave,
Snalch'J
aod fav'd from
.

nati-

a.

ns dri^vind*

pofltion to fleep.

Uprofe from droiv/y couch.
Faity Siueen^
While thus (he rcfted, on her arm reclin'd.
The horary willows waving with the wind,

liray'd.

In dniufy murmurs lull'd the gentle maid.
3.

Shai.

Priir.

Thofe iiudv-.Ttcncies, a body would think, even
our author, with all his drawfy realfning, could
never have been capable of.
Aiterbury.

roDRUB. nj.a. [d'r-ft^fr, tokill.Danilh.]
To threlh to be.it to bang to thump
;

;

to thwack ;

;

A word of con-

to cudgel.

To overwhelm in water.

Miltcn.
What fuccour can I hope the mnfe will fend,

Crajhaiu.
Tfe paftes his whole life in a dozed condition,
between flecping and waking, with a kind oi

upon his fenfes.

^outh.

Ke that from his childhood h.;s made rifing betirn'S familiar to him, will not w.ifte the beft part

of his life in drotvjineji, and lying a-bsd.
Locke.
fenfation of i/ro7tJ^iTr/j, oppri-ilion, and laffl-

A

Or fo mu%,i as it needs

To dew the fovcrejgn flow'r, aod druvix the wreds.
SbaktJ^eare,

tudc, uc £gat of a plcMiful meal in young pcoj-Ir.
,

tempt.
He that is valiant, and dares fight.
Thrush drubb'd, can lofe no honour by't. Huiih.
The little thief had been loundly drukbiJ vih\\ a
g"od honeft cudgel.

L'Ejirange.

Though the bread be not minf,yet, iCit had been
lef:.

than wcij^ht. 1 ihou d have hze-\.'yubhed. L',cke.

Drub. n.f. [from the verb.]

A thump;

a knock ; a blow.
The blows and drubs I have receiv'd
Have bruis'd my body, and bereav'd

My limbs of ftrength.

Hudiiras.

By felting an un(i3rtiinate mark on their folluwthey have expofed them to innumerable drubt
and contuficns.
Addifont

crs,

To DRUDGE, -v. ft. [ bpeccan, to vex,
Saxon; draghen, to carry, Dutch.] To
labour in

mean offices

honour or dignity ;

to

to toil without

;

work hard

to

;

flave.

And to crack'd fiddle, and hoarfe tabour.
In merriment, did drudge and labour.
Hudibrai
The poor fleep little we rpuft learn to watch
Our labours late, and early every morning,
:

Midft wintcrfroftsj then, clad and fed with fparing.
Rife fo our toils, and drudge away the day. Ot^way.
Advantages obtained "by induftry, dirc^ed by
philofophy, can never be expelled from drudgirg
ignorance.
Clanvdle.
Soon he came to court,
ProfTering for hire his fervice at the gate,

To drudge, draw water, and to run or wait.

Dryd.

made no fuch bargain with you, to live always

drudging,

Dryden s Dedication, j^neid.

What is an age, in duil rt-nown drudg'd o'er
One little (ingle hnur of love is more, (rrcnntille.
Drudge. «.y; [from the verb.] One em.
ployed in mean labour
a flave ; one
!

To the cclcftial fyrcn'a harmony.

drctufinfjt and confufion

Add.

Stupid ; dull.

I

Wriat a {kt^t\^c drciujt/iefs poftcllcs them !
In deep of night, when dronvjinefi
Ha:h lock'd up mortal fenfe, then liften I

yfhok drvwfiiieft hath wroog'd the mufc'sfricnH ?

To fufFocate in water.

I.

lulling ; caufing fleep.

And feather'd quires that warbled in the (hade,
And purling ftreaQis that through the meadow

waters.

Upon a (Rower, after a driughi, earthworms and

I.

;

!

As torrents in the drc/wih of fummer fail.
So perifh'd man from death ihall never rife. Sajtdyi.
They were (b learned in natural philofophy,

Dro'uchty. ajj. [hottt Jrought.

Heavy

Sir Giiyon, mindful of his vows yplighr,

Some aged man who lives this aft to fee.
And who in former times remember'd me.
May fay, the fon, In fortittidc and fame.

.

In (\imn'tzx^i drought V\\ drop upon thee ftill. Slak*
Great drrjghtt io fummer, laOir.g till the end
of Auguft, fome gentle (bowers upon them, and
then fome dry weather, portend a pellilent fummer
Batcn,
the year following.

To fouth the Perfian bay,
Aai inacceflible th' Arabian draught.

2.

Outgoes the mark, and droiuns Ills father's name.
Dryden.

will befriend thee more with rain

Than youthful April Ihall with all hi: fliowers

of an ague, and do ufe to yawn and ftretch.
Bacon' I Natural Hifiory,
The flowers, call'd out of their beds.
Start and raife up thci r droiufy heads. Cleaveland*
Drunken at laft, and droiJjy, they depart
Each tJ his hoiifr.
Dryden.

AdMf.n,

I

•!

Men jLT&drowJy, and defirous to fleep, before the

My private voice is drown d amid the fenate.

Dry weather ; want of rain.

Sleepy ; heavy with fleep ; lethargick.
Droivfy am I, and yet can rarely (leep. Sidney.
fi:

mtton.

DROUGHT, n.f. [bpujobe, Saxon.]
I

1.

Sperffer on Ireland.

That the brightnefs of the fun doth drciun our

The drovtr, who his fellow drt/ver meets
In narrow paHiiges of winding ftrcels. Dryd. yuit,

Fairy Sluein,

Dro'wsy. aJj. [from drotufe.']

;

praife.

I

O earth

And riling forth cut of her bafer boure,
Look'd f )r her knight.

doubt to have his doln^i drcv/ned in another man's

wilh him joy of her.
—Why, that's fpoken like an honeft driver ; fo
they fell bullocks. Sbak, Much ado about Nothing.

I.

Sleepinefs; inclinaObfolete.
The royal virgin ihook oS d-owEhcd

tion to fleep.

To lofe in fomething that overpowers

to

market.
The prince hath got your hero.
i

Dro'wsihed. ft./.

or covers.
Who Cometh next will not follow that courfe,
however good, which his predecefibrs held, for

One that

and drives them

To immerge

5.

Had we fo done at firft, we had drwin them home
With clouts about their heads.
Shaitffeare.
fats oxen for fale,

It falleth out well, to (hake off your litewyfd*/}
J'
for it feeraed to be the trumpet of a war.
Bacon's Holy Jf^ar,

Dryder..

land.

Drydens yuveitaK

Dro'ver. n.f. ffrom ilro--vt.'\

2. Idlenefs ; indolence; jnadllvity.

;

Where drtvis, u at a city-gate may pafs.
J)g.(/vES.fart. from </ri<ve.

;

to deluge.
Betwi»t the prince and parliament we Aand,
The barriers •f the ftate on either hand
May neither overflow, for then ihey drown the

Milttn.

4.

D R U

D R O

Biniged by iny noife or cry which the drivers
fliill accuftom them to.
Smth.
3' Any colleftion of animals.'

Ati'Ulhml.

;

doomed to fcrvile occupation.
To c.nclude, this drudge r-f the devil, this diihakcff. Comedy of Erf
He fit^ above and laughs (he wl'ile

viner, h-d claim to me.

At thee, rrJa'n'd \\-i drudge, to execute
Whate'rr his wrath (hall bid. Miion's Par. Lfi,
Art th'Mi our Q«ve,

Our cflpiive, at the publick \Xi\\\''\ix drui'gf.
And dar'ft tiiou, at our fending and coinm.»nd/,
Dipfute thy coming }

Milton' t Agonijfet,

H(

D R U

He IS content to be their druige.
And on their errands gladly trudge. Hudihrai,
The hard mafter malces men fcrvc him for

4.

1.

A mean labourer.
The drudging-box

;

box out of

the

Freely command.

tlif Ir poflctt,

VEflraxgr.
Vou do not know the heavy grievances.
The toils, the labours, weary drud^rrki.
St^utherni Oracnoh.
Which they impofe.
To thee that drudjrny of pow'r 1 give ;
Cares be thy bt : re^gn thou, and let me live.

Dry den,
P»r»difc was a place of blifs, as well as immortality,

without drudgery, and without forrow.

z.

To tinflure with fomething oftenfive.

Dru'mstick. ».y^ [drum zn^Jiick.'\ Tac
flick with which a drum

Intoxicated with llrong

1.

liquor ;

;

Then haflen to be drunk, the bufmeft of the day.
Dryden.

fluff.

We generally conclude that man druni, whi

In druggets dreft, of thirteen pence a-yard,

S c Philips fon amidft his Pcrlian guard.

takes piins to be thought fober.

Swift.

Dru'ccist. «./ [from ^raf.] One who
fells

2.

I

phyfical drugs.

Spefiator,

Drenched or faturated with moifture.
will make mine arrows drunk with blood.

Dmt.

Common nitre ^ve bought at the druggift's. Beyle.

fells phyfical

given to exceflive ufe of flrong liquors j

finiples.

one addifted to habitual ebricty.
Some blood drawn on me would beget opini-n
Of my more fierce endeavour. I've f;;n druriardt
Do more than this in fport. Stairff). King Lear.

Common oil of turpentine 1 bought at the drug'

Tiomfin's Summer.
by every dirty wench, and
her
drudgery.
do
condemned to
Sv)iJ'l's Meditations en a BrmmJUck.

They fct the clergy below their apothecaries,
the phylician of the foul below the drugfiers of the
K-idy.
Atterhury.

•

now handled

Boyli.

DRUM. n. f. [tromme. Daniftl

;

My bowels cannot hide her woes.
But, like a drunkard, I mud vomit them.
Shak.
God will not take the drunkard's excufc, that
lie hai fo long accuftomed himfelf to intsmp erate
drinking, that now he cannot leave it off. South.

drumme,

Erfe.]
1.

An inftrument of military mufick, con-

upon roaft meat.

fiding of vellum ftrained over a broad

Dru'nken. adj. [homdrini,']

But if it lies too long, tlie crackling's pall'd.
Not by the dmdgingiox to be recall'd.

hoop on each

1.

Let's

Dru'dcingly. adv. [from <irudging.'\
Laborioufly ; toilfomely.
He does now all the meaneft and triflingcft
things himfelf </n(rf;fir^/y, without making u(e of
Kay em lie Creation.

Tears trickling down their krcafts bcdcw the
ground,
And drums and trumpets mix their mournful found.

DRUG. K.f. yregue, French.]
a me-

dicinal fimple.

Dry den.

A fleet defcried

Now no more the drum
Provokes to arms, or trumpet's clangor flirill
Atfiights the wives, and chills the virgin's blood.

i

Hangs in the clouds, by cquinoftial winds
Clufc failing from Kcngala, or the ifles
Of Ternatc and Tidore, whence merchants bring
Milicn^s Faradije Loji.
Tbcir fpicy drugsJudicious phytick's noble art to gain,
He drugs and plants explor'd, alas ! in vain.
Smith,
Bright Helen mix'd a mirth-infpiring bowl,
Temper'd with drugs of fov'reign ufe, faffuage
The bailing bofom of tumultuous rage.

Baker^s Rejieflions on Learrtirg.
S,,

It is ufed fometimes for poiftJn.
Mortal diugs 1 have ; but Mantua's law
Shakeffcart.
Is death to any he that utters them.
Kn& yet no doubts the poor man's draught cuntrull

He dreads no poifon in his homely bowl
Then fear the duadly rfri/;, whcji gems divine
Znchafe thr cup, and fparkle in the wine.
t.

Dryd.

Any thing without worth or value ;
any thing of which no purcbafer can be
found.
Each noble rice
Shall bear a price.
And vijtue (hall a drug becomes

An empty name.
Was all her fame.
But now ihc (kail be dumb. Drfdtn't /tlinn.

Shjkeffeare.

Drunken men imagine every thing lurnech
round : they imagine that things come upon

them J they

fee not well things afar off; thofe
things that they fee near hand, they fee out of
their place, and fometimes they fee thmgs double.

Bacon^
2.

Given to habitual ebriety.

3.

Saturated with moifture.

Then let the earth be drunken with our blood.
Shakejptaf

4.

Done in a flate of inebriation.
When your carters, or your waiting vaffils.

Pii/ifis.

Have done a (/ri/»iffl flaughter, and defac'd

2. The tympanum of the ear, or the mem-

The precious image of our dear Redeemer,
You llraight are on your kHses f^r pardon, pardnn.

brane which perceives the vibration of
the air.

Shakefpeart.

V/c HiouK! for honour take
The drunken quanels of a rake.

To Drum. f. a.
1.

To oeat a drum

;

to beat a tune on a

drum.

Pefe's Odyjfey.

In the names of drugs and plants, the miftaice
in a word may endanger life.

Intoxicated with liquor ; inebriated.
O monflrous beall how like a fwjne he iiea t
Sirs, I will praAife on this drunken man.
!

march witiiout the noife of threatening
drvmy
Sbakcfpeare.

In drumrfthft clofenefs round about, that prefervcth the found from difperiing, maketh the
noife come fortiv at the drum-hole far more loud
and rtrong than if you Hiould ilrike upon the like
Bacon.
flcin extended in the open air.

any inferiour or fubordinate miniftrr.

;

and beaten with

fide,

(licks.

Kirjg'i C^'jkery.

An ingredient ufed in phyfick

On^

Dru'cster. ti./, [from drug.\ One who Dru'nkard. n. /. [from drunk.']
Jler'i.

1.

ine-

briated.
Tliis was the morn when ilfuing on the guards
Drawn up in rar.k and file, they ft^d prepar'd
Of feeming arms to make a ihort affay

With hatcfulcft dilrelilh, writh'd their jaws
With foot and cinders fill'd.
Mi'tins Far . LoJI.
Dru'gget. »./. A flight kind of woollen

Even Drudgery himfelf,

Dru'dcincbox. «./. le^rue/ging znd iox."]
The box out of which flower is fprinkled

beaten.

is

Drunk, adj. [from driHk.']

Hunger and third conftraining ; drugged as oft

As at the car he fwcats, or dufty hen's
It is

Skjkfptartt

Here rows of drummers ftand in martial file.
And with tbcir vellum-thisgder dake the pile.
Cay.

Of: they alfay'd.

Locke.

The palace Hone, I^oks gay.

beat the drum.
Drummer, ftiike up, and let us march away.

That death and nature do contend about them.
Shaiejpeare.

He whof«

"l

office it is to

The forfeited grooms

Do mock their charge with fnores.— I've dmgg'd

hufbandry and her drud^try^

riee them ?

Shaktjfeare.

medicinal.

labour ;

^bakej^are*
Were there not inlliuments (nr drudgery as well
Were there not people to
as offices of drudgery f
receive orders, as well -as others to give and autho-

Mortimer^

To Dkug. 1). a. [from the noun.]
I. To ffafon with ingredients, commonly

Me.in

ignoble toil ; dilhonourable
work ; fervile occupation.
My old dame will be undone for one ti do her

The druimuker ofes it, and the<ab!netmaker.

Dru'mmer. >»./. [from drum.

To fuch as may the jiallive drugs of it

which flower is thrown on roaft meat.
Di3.

Dru'dcerv. w.yi [from tiriu/ge.'\

Dru'm MAKER. »./. [druM and tnaier.^
He who deals in drums.

He from bis firft fwath proceeded
Thro' fwcet degrees that this brief world afford,

Tilhtfeit.

2.

This feems the meaning

here.

nought, who rewards his JruJgei and Haves with
nothing but ^ame, and forrow, 2nd mifery.

Dru'dcer. h./. [from Jrui/ge.]

A drudge.

DRY

R U

ID

F;

2.

Dru'nkenly. adv.
a drunken manner.

To heat with a pu'fatory motion.

My blood alcady, like the pelican,
Halt thou tapt out, and drunkcniy carous'd.

Now, heart.
Set ope thy fluices, lend the vigorous blood
Through every ailive limb for iny relief j

Then take thy reft within the ouict cell,
Dryden.

For thou Ihalt drum no more.

ToDru'mble. v. h.

Slakeffeart.

Dru'nkEnness. v.f. [from driutkeit.'\
1.

Intoxication with flrong liquor.
Every going off from our natural and common
temper, and our ufual fevcrily of behaviour, it a
degree of drunkennefs. Tjykr's RuU of Living Holy.

To drone; to be

Hanmer.
fluggifh.
7 akc op thefe cloaths here quickly where's
the cowlftaff? Look, hnw you drumhie I carry
them to the tandrcfs in Da'chet Mead.

Swiftt

[from druitien,] In

:

2.

The Lacedemonians trained up their children
to hate drunkcntie/s, by bringing a drunken man
Jfar/i on the Mind.
intotheir company.

Sbakeff>eare^s Afeny fVi'ues of fVmdJor.

Dru'mfuh. n./.

The name of a fifh.
The under-jaw of the drumffh from Virginia.

Habitual ebriety.

3. .Intoxication or inebriation of any kind ;

diforder of the faculties.

fyooJtVJr J.

Paffunis the r/r«n*f Bii^i of the mind, and there*
workings not controllable by

Drumma'jor. n. /. [drum and ina/or.]
The chief drummer of a regiment.

fore in its prd'ent

reafon.

Such cotil^ny may chance to fpoil the fwcaring.
And the drummajor'a oaths, of bulk unruly,

DRY. adj. [bpij, Saxon]

May dwindle to a I'ceblc^

I .

CJetiwland.

Sfinjir,

Arid ; not wet ; not moifl.
If

DRY

DRY

If the pipe be a little wet en the InflsJc, it will
Biskc a dittcring found trcm the fjme j'if* Jry-

DUB
3. Want of enibelliniment

Wiilih, burning upwards In fuccelTion, dr'ut
Tlie fjais thai ilood confidering in her eyes,
J)ryJeK,

Whjn Goii fiid,

T" wipe away moifture.

3.

Be gather'H now, ye waters under hctv'n.

Then w.ili her vcft the wound flis wipes and

Into one jilite, an>t le ./ly 'an<l SVP''"''
Milttin.
Ot turbii elements the fp rt
Fronri cicar to cloudy tell, from hot to colli,
Aoii dry tt maift.
1 hem fun.

not cjrcful'y.

!

a.

Sec, at your Mefl retuminf,

R-fpC dir.»pprars ;

Drlit lip her tears.

A tiry March and a Jry May portend a '-vhoiefome (unimer,
t*een,

if ".here

be a ifcowerinj April be-

Tljelr honourable men are familTied, and

muhitudc dr'itii up with thiiil.

The •feather, we igreed, wai too dry for tlie
J.

Ai.iijun,

Not fucculent
I

;

5.

not juicy.

will tirain hi:n i/ry as hay ;

N^ng upon his penthnufe lid
He ftiall live a man forbid, Sbaktff, Mtnttib,
4. Being without tears.
Dry mouminj w',.i deeays more deadly bring.
As a north wind burns a too forward fpring

Impnident

i

1

Give forrow veat, and let tb{ lluiccijo. Vryditt.
5. Thirily j a-thirft.
So dry he was for fway.
SteteA. Temftfi.
Void^of a bulky charter near their lipi,

To grow dry;

to

lofe

all)

wet

'Tem[-li.

Without

the number two.

Modern languages have enly one variation, an4
Latin; but the Greek and Hebrew hav;
one. to figiiify two, and another to fi2nify more
fo the

than two
under one variation the noun is laid to
be of the dual number, and under the other of tlie
I

Jejunely: barrenly j without ornament
or embcili(bm«nt,
Somu dry/j phiio, without invention's aid.
Write dtill tf ceiptj how pacms may ba iqad*. Ptfr,

plural.
CUrkSi Lal]n Gram'tlar.
ToV>\J'Q,'v.a. [bubbanzopibsfiii, Saxon;

ndduyha sill riddai-a, Jflandick, to dub a
knight,
Adjuhba, in its primary fenfc,
fignifie* to /Irike, knighta being .made
by 3 blow with the fword.j

ficcity,

I.

eonceind

to be pecullativ
ftorched and torr'.ftaJ by the fgn, by dryrf/i of tii'e

Knigiit, knight: gooj mi'tne r

What

from want and defeft of water.
Srm'ii'i Vuigar Xrmrt.
Such was tha difeord which did flrft dllperfj
Form, order, bciuty, through the univerfe (

To free from moifturc

i

lo itrefy j to

Tbe marrow fuppltci an oil for |h* Jnundlion
of the bonei and igaments In tli« aitieulatiopi,
and psrtieularty r.f the ligaments, prefirvinjj them
from dry«r/i and rigidity, and keejiing them fuppic

The .-neat wai xell, If you were fo eotitentrd,
n't tell tbce, Kate, 'twai burnt and drird away.

and dex^blii.

Sttt'&ifre.

J(ay «» ibf QuatUn

U ijw fei ever likely to be evaporated b) (be fun,

Heal drkit hoi'nt chat ds eaflly expire, as~
yatchmenl, k«r«>, rPOC, ind «lay ; and I'o doth
time -efy,
J?rt.-«».
Herbs and ftoweti, If they he drird In the (bade,

or to be emptied w|th buckets r

Whv tbrn mt'fl

wa fjnoy

and then, upon

th;» Impoitikle drymfi,

that fittitiout itcount, calamniitt nature }

tr drkd In the hot fiin a fmaU tifri, keep t>iU,

Baim.

Th» running ftroanii >ra deep (
S «, they have caught the father of the^ock,

Who drill bif fleece upon tttc nel|hb«wripg rock.
^7^eii.

To exhale moifturc.

J.

'Twn i;r.ef no mon, or ||rief and ragt rvere one
Within hif (ckl

Vol. J.

;

at '.iH ''.vfn, r»jtt

aloDf

ttpll'j.

t.

Want of fucculencc.
Ifhefill-d

Hll vncancy with hli voluptuoufneft,
Full furfelts, and the drymfi of his bones,
Call on bim for 't.

Sbakiff. ytrHiny usd Ctitf.

The diftiirence of mufcular fleih depends upon
tha hjrdnefi, ccndcrneb, molfturC| or dryntji of
tha fibrei.
dL'liuUiict-

I

'

Dafilifco like

am dM'd; I havu it o» my (houHor.'
ahjltij'pe.irf,

Whil-i dryn/i moillure, coldnofs heat roiiitj,

ex/iccate.

I

Th* robot which thr kings then ello«ed to each
knight, tt-hen he wis Jubicd, of green, or burnet,
as tl;ey fjiake in that age, appejiefh upon rctord.
Cawdtn'i Rima'iMi,

AH that we have, and (hit we are, fiibflfts.
I .

To irrafec r man a knight.

foil,

Hmliini.

5

And gather pebblts from the naked ford. V'yderr.
Du'ai.. tt'/j. [dua/h, Latin.]
ExpreiCng

Dry'kiij. «./, [from dry.]

Th» iej.lle!t remedtet of lore (

SiJnty,

ftream ?

P'ydln'l yattrxii!.

J

without treading above the

^'liijr S^iau
Has honour's fountain then fuck'd back tbe

For virtue i« but dryly prals'd, and (larvcs.

are

feet ;

Shi; would coromar.d themfdves to bear away.

Which diingccns, d..)th, or biniftiment delerves

T*t Africans

Hrdiirss.

He Iu5i and hooting boyi may dry/bad t'^t.

Coldly i frigidly; without affcflion.

Want of moifture

bear.

And eke huge mountains from their nritive lent

Wouldft thou to honilur and pre.'ermcnti climb,
Be b IJ in njilclilcr", dare fume mighty crime.

I.

.1

Dry/hod to pafs, (he parts the floods in twiy

The archdaUe, conki->u> to liimleif how drily
the king had been ufcd by his council, diJ ft; ne
to toccviT the kind's afftaion. Paitn't Henry VJI.

[Z>r/M jncicntljr to ^7-

itatefj:etr^.

wc could not return dryjhcd.

without weeping.

M'tU'.n.

3.

laundry, his waflier, and hii

Ihoes in the water.
He had embarked us in fuck difadvantage, a«

Day'i-y. adv. [from </rv.]
1. Without moillure.
2.

his

So he wa5 drymir:\i liy

Sight fo deform what heait of rock eould lonj
Dryeycd behold ? Adam coold not, but wept,

I'' EJInifi^/.

rfWr^J tiree, Scottlih,]
Of two noblemen, th« one was given to fcoff,
Vut kept evrr royal che^r in his houfe ) the other
would iSk t>( thof: that had been at hit tablet »as
tkeia novar > ticut or dry blow given t
fianii.
I rather hop'd I ih"uld no noora
you
o"
fniin
Hear
th' gallanting fcorr
(
For hard d'y bailingt \n'4 to provt

by pcrrpiraticn.

or

Dry's HOD. adj. [dry mxd/ied.] Without

which ia a gr»at dryn mi opener, efpcri-

tears 5

It li a dry (tkXt, with Jitile or nothing in it,

Authority and .Mendft^p work lipou i'mr, dry
ind fober reafcn works opop. others,
I- f/lmngt,
Ti> cUar up thii theory, J was wlliinf; to lay
lUe dry fubtiUtiti
with 'which the fch"o!i are
'
fined,
Byrmt'i Th^ry.
Theft epiftlei will be«om« left dry, and more
rcfceptihla of ornament,
Ptfe.

That which

Dkv'stsd. aaj. [dry and 0"-]

cock,

To Dav'KURSE. 1'. a. [from the noun.]
To feed without the breaft. »
As Romulus a wilt'Ji.l rear.

The ill ci{z(\i of drinking are relieved by this

rtturo to tite <)urftian, and lc»vci ix (till ignorant.

Neil a dry d!«.

Drv. tj. ».

plant,

It

fevere.

W'.inger.

has the quality of ebforbing moifture.

ytnfun.

remjiocth to treat concerning ornaments
within or without tbe fabrick | a piece not fo diy
the
nieer contempiat'on of proportions 1 an J
J t%
ti)ej»fore 1 hope therein faini*wlvt to refcelh both
|he reader JnJ m;fe:?,
yfnion'; jir,t',l:fii,c.
Thjt tke fire burns by hsat, if an en-.p^y diy

Mrs. Quickly is his nurfe, or his rlryrtarfr, or
his

DRY'E*^»r.y; [from dry.]

JJ.-w

contempt of the perfon taken care

of,

was in time exhaled and dr'nd uf by the fun.
H^oodivard.

To

One who takes care of another: with
fo.Tie

The water of tl'.c fes, which formerly covered
It,

fb'iRpu

As '.ve (h-iuld taJcc care that our ftilc in writing
be neither dry nor empty, we Oiogld look again
It h« not winding or wanton with far-fttchcd oc-

(

child without the breaft.
2.

rti/i;!.

6. Jejune ; barren ; plain ; unembellilTicd ; without pathos • without flowerj.

Hard

iniguous fipep,

him death'* iron f.trep cpprc*.

moillure ; to be drained of its moiliure.

Their frying blood compels to irrigat*
Their dry furr'd tongue«.

7.

:

Dry'n'DRSE. n /. \_dry and iiurfs.]
1. A woman who brings up and feeds a

6. Ta Drv uf
To deprive totally of
moifturc J to take all moilture away.

With which, in often interrupted fleep,

feriptioni 1 either it a vice.

to exhauft.
j
Raih Elpenor, in an evil hour,
DrirJ an inimcsfuralile bowl, and thought

Want of fenfibility in devotion; want
of ardour ; aridity.
It miy b-.', that by this dryrnft of fp^rlt, God
intends to make us the more fervent and relisned
in our dircft and 4;)!emn devotions, by the perceiving of our weskneft.
tuykr,

tlicir

ija:ab, Y. 15.

To drain

1'^ cxha'c his
forfeit by

S eep fljaii neither night oBr day

.

To fcorch with third.

4.

Ba.cH.

Tea fun.

4.

Dryiiti'i jilhm.

'

Binjir.jor.

phrife wheie penury of fancy or dryvifs of rx'
prcfli'>n aik it.
Gii'tb^

Tbe widow'd iflc in moiirninj

Not rainy.

want of pa-

Be taitlilul where t!i= author excels, and pa.-a-

Derian,

d^irt,

;

thos ; jejuncnefs; b.irrennefs.
Their new ijuwers a.'d fwcetnefs do as mucA
corrupt as others dryncjs and fqualor, if they chu(e

The kln^ (lood up updar his cloth of ftate, took
tha fword from t!ie j:d protcftor, and dvUti tlio
1

lord mayor

3.

f-nnJonltnl|iht. H-iywiirdtn Ed, VI,

To confer »iy kind of dignity, or new
charafter,

The Jonlous o'erworn widow and herfelf,
Since that our brother duH'd them gentlirwomon.
Art mightji jolTips in this monnrchy. ^4, SjV.

Ha

Ul,

Gave theenolnftancewhy theu Oio«!dftdotrea|'i[,
Unlefl 10 (^vithMwiih tbenameoftraitiir,
Sb.ik,
Women commence by Cvnld's dait,
hiintln|
A« « king
M<ii a ha'rt,
C'rvtt'iitif.
plain gentleman, of »n anelcnt family. i%
of
better qunlity th»n 3 new iioitlit, ihouih tha'
taafon

A

of his dutlinz was meritorioui.
cJlirt fk ffU^
O poet! thou hadiV be«n difj Mtw,
Hanging th." mwarv-h's bjit (ii high.
If th"u hadft duih'i thy ftjr a meteor,
That did \t%\ bia^e, and rove, aad die. JPiV.

4 r~.l^l

Tb«t|

DUG

DUG

Thrfc demoniaclu let me dab
With the name of Icgian club.

SnuJft.

A man cf wealth is Juib'd a man of worth
knock.
As Ikllful coopers hoop their tubs

jMen often fwallow falfities for truths, dubioftiii
feaiibilitics

1.

Doubting; not fettled in an opinion.
Uncertain; that of which the truth is

Derbam.

»hen there are no arguments on either fide.

2.

ft'tili^s LcgUk.

Having the event uncertain.
Ills utmoft powV with advcrfe povv'roppo.<(*d.
In dubious battle, on the plains of heav'n. Afi/roit.

wherein is expected a ftrifi definitive truth.
Brtrwns Vulgar Errfiurs.
Almanack-makers wander in general, and talk
Jubkujly, and leave to the reader the bulinefsof inteipreting.

Sv/i/i.

Du'biousness. n./. [from dubious.'] Uncertainty ; doubtfulnefs.
She fpeaks with dubloujmfi, not with the certainty
Broonie.

^

DU'BITABLE. adj. [dubi/e, Lat.] Doubtuncertain ; what may be doubted.
Pubita'tion. ft./, [dubilatio, Latin.]
The a£l of doubting ; doubt.
ful ;

Many of the ancients denied the antipodes ; but
the experience of our enlarged navigation can now
aflert them beyond all dubiialim.
Brown^i Vulgar Erreurt.
Duhitautm may be called a negative perception j
that is, when 1 perceive that what I fee is not
wiiat I would fee.

Crew.

ylrbuibnci on AlimeKls,

The bullets whiflling round his ears.

DU'CTILE. adj. [duailis, Lat.]

Will du<k his held afide, will ftart,

1.

And feel a trembling at his heart.
Siri/r.
In Scottilh
3. To bow low ; to cringe.
duyi, otjuyi, to make obeifance, is ftill

a ducal coronet.
Du'cAT. n./. [from duie.]
coin ftruck

A

valued at about
four shillings and fix pence ; in gold, at
nine (hillings and fix pence.
1

filver,

To put under water.

Do'cKER. It./, [from duck.]

Gold, as it is the purcft, fo it is the foftcft and

A diver.
2. A cringer.
1

DiS.

Du'cKiNGSTOOL. »./.

cannot inrtantly raifc up the grofs

Of full three thoufand ducats.

j^iidifcn^s Freeboldcr.

DUCK. n./. [aaas dtukcn, to dip, Dut.]
1. A water fowl, both wild ^nd tame.
;

TliC ducU, that heard the prociam ttion cried,
And fear'd a profecution
ght betide,
Fuil t^entjf mile from town their voyage take,
Obfcure in rtilhes of the liquid lake.
lirjdin.
Grubs, if you lind your land fubjeO tc, turn
ducii into it.
Afiriirnh's Flujoandry.

m

2.

A word of endearment, or fondncfs.
Will you buy any tape or lace for /our cap.
My dainty liuct, my dear-a ? Siak. tVwttr'i Tale.

3.

A declination of the head

legged.
DuckUgg'd, (hort waifted, fuch a dwarf (he is,
That Ihe muft rife on tiptoes for a kifs.
Drydens Juvenal.

A young

duck ; the brood of the duck.

;

lity.

YbIIow colour and duCtility are properties of
gold : they belong to all gold, but not only to
gold i for falfron is alfo yellow, and lead is ducWatt's Ligick,

_

2. Obfequioufnefs ;

compliance.

Du'cKMEAT. n. /. [duck and meat; lens Do'dgeon. n./. [dolch, German.]
A fmall dagger.
palujlris.]
A common plant growing in
1

It was a ferviceablc dudgeon.
Either for fi jhting or for drudging.

Handing waters.

To Ducko'y. 'V. a. [miilaken for daoy :
thedecoy beingcommonly pr^ii'ed ujxin
ducks, produced the crrour.]

2.

to a fnare.
This filh hath a flender membranous firing,
which he projefls and draws in at plcafun-, as
fcrpent doth his tongue: with this he ducktys little
filhcs, and preys upon them.
Cre^u.
Duckco'y. «. yr Any means of enticing
.<

and enfnaring.'
Seducers have found it the mod compendious

Dtr'cKSFooT. n. /. Black fnakeroot, or
Mayapple.

Hudihas,

Malice; fullenncfs; malignity; ill will.
Civil dudgeon firft grew high.

To entice

and make thcjn the ducktcys to their whole family.
Decay of Piety.

Back, diephcrds, back; enovgh your play

I, when I value gold, may think upon
The du^ilenefsf the application
The wholefomenefs, the ingenuity.
From ruft, from foU, from fiie ever free. Donne,
Ducti'lity. n./. [from ducliU,]
\. Quality of fufFering extenfion; flexibi-

I'tl'.

from the freqaent aftion of a duck in

Till next funfiiioe bolyday ;

bility ; duftility.

Ray on tie Creation.
Ev*ry morn

way to their defigns, to lead captive filly women,

the waier.

more

Du'cTi LE N ESS. »./ [ffom dui'Ule.] Flexi-

and led by a hen, if

Gay's Pajlorah.

a

Aldijles Freeboldcr.

ihe brings them to the brink of a river or pond,
prefently leave her, and in they go.

fo called

;

Their dcfigning leaders cannot deCre
du^ile and eafy people to work upon.

.

Amid the ducklings let her fcatter corn.

:

He generous thoughts inftiDs
Of true nobility ; forms their du{3ile minds
To human virtues.
Philips,

She in the diiciingjfoo! Ihould take her feat,
Dreft like herfelf in a great chair of ftate.
Darfcf.
Reclaim the obftinately opprobrious and virulent
women, and make the duckingftxl more ufeful.

D u c K L f/c o e d adj. \duck and leg.] Short

Drydet,

complying ;

yielding.

A

Shakffpeare.

There was one that died in debt it was re|!Oted,wh-ie his creditors were, that he was .dead:
one faid, he li:ith carried five hundred '</iirof> of
mine into the other wotM.
Baccn.

mod duffiie of all metals.
3. Tradable ; obfequious ;

[duck ahd y?W.]
chair in which fcolds are tied, and
put under water.

DuiklirrgSf though hatched

Eafy to be drawn out into length, or
expanded.
All bodies duSile and tenfile, as metali>, that
will be drawn into wires ; wool and tow, (hat will
be drawn into yarn or thread ; have the appetite of
not difcontinuing ftrong.
Bacon.

Sbakefpeare^s Timon.

Du'cAL. adj. [from daie.] Pertaining to Du'cKLiNC. »./. [from </»fi.]
as,

2.

The learned pate

To Duck. 1/. a.

!

Dryoen^s ^rttij.

I cannot flatter and look fair.
Smite in men's faces, fmooth, deceive, and cog,
Duck with French nods, and apiflt courtefy. Shak.

Ducks to the golden fool.

Flexible; pliable.
Thick woods and gloomy night
Conceal the happy plant from human fight
One bough it bears; but, wond'rous to behold

The duSiilc tind and leaves of radiant gold.

ufed.

certainly ; without any determination.
Authors write often dubicujiy, even in matters

in

yiddi/en's SptSlator,
It was obferved that the chyle, in the thoracicfc
duSl, retained the original Ufte of the ailment.

As fome raw youth in country bred.

Du'biously. adv. [from dubious.'] Un-

:

A duU from each of thofe cells ran into the root
of the tongue, where both joined together, and
palTed forward in one common dufl to the tip of it.

When at a Ikirmidi firft he hears

Sdtan with Id's toil, and now with cafe.
Wafts on the calmer wave, by dubhus light. MiUoti*

by dukes

tomilb.

To drop down the head, as a duck.

Not plain; not clear.

Hammond.

A paflage through which any thing is
conduf^ed : a term chiefly ufe^ by ana-

Let the labouring bark climb hills of (eas
Olympus high, and duik again as low
As hell's fiom heaven.
Sbaieffeart't OtbelU.
Thou art wickedly devout;
In Tiber ducking thrice by break of day.
Dryden,

Wc alfo call it a Juthut or doubtful propoiiiion,

:

which wc are b rn under.
2.

That in the lake his lofty creft was lt«ept.
Fain Sluecn.

No quick reply to dukisut queflioos make.

a duke

thing to us but only to obey our fate, to follow the
dulJ of the (lars, or nccclTity of thofe irony chains

How without ftop or flay he fie.cely leaptj

not fully known.

of a goddefs.

This d.)ftrine, by faflening all our adions by a
of Cod's chair, leaves no-

fatal decree at the foor

And deep himfelf he ducked in the fame.

I.

Bacon.

Guidance; direftion.

1.

The varlet faw, when to the flood he came.

anU
Bnu-n'sfiilg. Err.

for p'^SibilitJcs,

ii.

4.

bottom.

Duct. »./. [duffus, Lat.]

To dive under water as a duck.

DU'BIOUS. at/j. yuiius, Latin.]

3.

forth a

To Duck. t. ti. [from the noun.]

A

thyme leaf, but of a frelher green ; and putteth
little ftring into the water, far from the

a

Neither crofs and pile, nor duckt and drakes,
arc quite fo ancient as handy-dandy.
ylrbutbnel and Pope.

WithLytiin anJ with Phrygian </**». Hniihras.
DuBio'siTY, »./. [from (/a^ew.] A thing
doubtful.
word not ufed.
certainties,

faine with duckmeat.
That we call duckweed hath a leaf no bigger than

As Mercury did firft devife.
M'lhcji,
4. A Hone thrown obliquely on the water,
fo as to ftrike it and rebound.

A

things impoflibie for poffible.

Du'ckwbed.w./ [duck and itteed.] The

Of lighter toes, and fuch court gulfe

;

V^nus fhallgive him foim, and Anltisbinh. Pcye,
Dub. n. /. [from the verb.]
blow; a

for

DUE

Here be without dack or nod,
Other trippings to be trod.

And men fell out they knew not why. UuMbras.
, The cuckoo took this a little in dudgeon.
L' EJlrange,

DUE. adj. The participle pallive of oaw.
[dii,
I .

French.]

Owed

;

that which any one has a right

to demand in coiifeqiience of a compadl,

or for any other re.iibn.
Theit is duehom the judge to the advocate fame
commendation and gracing, where caufes are well
handled and fair pleaded. There is likewife dnt to
the public a civil rcprehcnfion of advocates, where
there appeareth cunning, jrofs neglcdi, or llight
infotisation,

Baan.
Mirth

» U E

U K

13

P u t
To D u'k r DOM »./ [from tiuke.']
I
.

The feigniory or poffeflions of a duke,

3t

!!y

to us frstn his vtracrty.

(h')u)d

caftom..

the rlullengmg and fighting with

^|.^,„.

appropnate,
0|/jx>rtunity moy b^ taken t> eicite, in
pcrfoiis

To Do'et..

^''"' Cngle
Duell'd th-ir ?rmic« rank'd in proud array,

/litiriury.

At o.ie Ipear's len^-h.

The courfe is c/us call!

VThofi icy curruir, and compullivecourft.
Ne'er .'ecl!:»:iring ebb, but kc^^s Jut
on

1 hat which belongs to one

Wli.ch, as immojiat* froijj tby place and

P«nvei itfcW to m*.

rfFeSt of courtefy, iuii of jrarituijei

,

I

.

,

,

Dndn

No popular ailimbly ever kr^w, or propofcd, or

declared, «h it ihare of potvcr wai

their dui.

Right} juA title,

Swift.
"^

1 he k>y of (l,ii infernal pit bv due,

F^'

Suckin* upon her poifonous d^g,

of a ftrang. rf„f

Cflftomary pcrtjuifjtet,

M

In refpeft . f -he exorbitant dun
th»t «re peid
moft other port}, this dcfcrMly
retains

name of free.

tfie

jjjt

Va Dur. 1/. •. [from tht noun. J To
pay
as due j perhapt for enMv.
It is perhaps cnly in this fmgle paflagc,

;

ftould «.,

nn <f.e one Me ; and vet, if it fc,
^ied by the ^rof'
»
fj on th9 other fide.
PfiCCn,
,

,

3.

It fecTis to have

been ufed formerfy of

the^breaft, without reproach,
It was » faithlsis fouire
t.hat was

lips,

Siei.

They had often found medal., an?
pipe, of
ead, js they
dui amonj the ruhbifl,.
\„ Ual.

^l

DUKE. n.f. idut, Prenchi <tu^, Latin.]
One of the higheft order of nobility

hngland

in

rank a nobleman next

the royal family.

in
to

Ch'l'i Will be hor( With him this
night.
.
1

""'"*'' ''""^

^""'

Kb </#(/ €vci W3I more juftly f^ght.

"> ''*^ •>"'
WtUir.

,

Mmt.L

and

all

kinds of mu!

Tij^DU'LCORATE. ^. «.'[n-oSA/W^

To fweeten,
1 he arcicr,., foi the duln-ailiv of

commend fwine's dung above all

fruh, d.
other dung. B^c

2.10 make lefs acrinaonious.

Turbith minar.J,as it is fold !n
the Oiops, Is a
rough c^dicme; but, being
fomewhat ,/j,/„rW.
firft procuteth voroumg,
,ad then falivation.
Tx

ff'ij'man't Surt'tr't,

,

i he

aft t)f fweeteninj,
Malt g^tbcrcth a Iwectnefs to the

taflo,

.

Sbaktjpeart'i Kitr hrar.

Aurmarle, Surrry, and Exeter,

The names of ^»i.-;, their litlea,

worthy to b. tried to the fnllj

may be an experiment of great profit.

DY>"t*P-

fftnitl'i Civil Ifar.

and tlio
alimcnul
£<?»«'

»/ [M «nd ,*W.] A

a dolt,

ftupJdj
'^

This people b« fooli and dulttads
'

fh'ief.

It

for that </W«rj?,to„

miporteth a decree to nouiilhmont :
malsing of things inafimont jl (o become

mull lolj

dignities,

And wjistfoevcr j>rofit: tliwcby rife,

which

iippoarath in the wort , tl>e duk^raii^n
of thinst

blockhtiadj a wretch foolilh and

,""•""'«" of y"»r«jht

foujht"'

r-

Ye hear the found of the cornet, flute,
har«
facktut, plaltory, dii/ciwer,

the fource

"* ,.' my forro^v, and of thefc fad tears i
With whom, from tender
</«jfof common nourfe.
At one, I wa. up brought.
Fairy
As mild and gentle as the cradje.babe, Sl-f.n.

«

A« of a dul, or ih« |<Jca| woundj

•'•

nitre of v1.

ArhuthZt
-~
•""•Ml
en ^tttTFirfiHa
k'l
-- •
y<'''''»'^!l<', Shttner.l

A mufical mnrument played by ftrikini
the brafs wires with little fticks.

I.

.

betwean two 3 fingle fight.
In many armiei, if the matter
(bould b« trijd bv
Ar' hetiveen two chjippions, the viflory

A.

m%,y.

pridel

D V O ^re/fr. and frirt. faff, of ^,V

ShahJ)>4i,rt.

DU'F.L.*./ [yw/Zaw, Latin.] A combat

r\

The laftnt Jove, and nurft his grqwjng

Pying with snotTier-s d,g between its

Th!i It the ijteft glory of their praife,

That I thy enemy d>it thee withal,

,

•

rhenfl,.m:t,hegoat,whpf«bruti(h/:,„tu4lied

Mittri.

Dt-dtn
4. Cuftoro ; tribute j ejcaajorM , legal or
*"

.

fairy ^«„.

M,if:>.-f

H^.ftman', SurfJ.

Spirit

Uu LCIMER, "

d7kmed

i

1 hey are fitfl; fed and nouriftej with theTnilk

Vt, thy vow'd pricftf, till outmofj end

»

him with a pledglf. dipt in a

of wine dMfii: fpirit of (alt;
triol have other bad elJias.

ejch one

;

Of fundry (Ji.pe, yet ail ill.f.,voured.

Befriend
oqt.
They pay tk- dead hi. .nnual duti.

meal.

I drefli:d

tinftur. ot vitriol,

Of her there bred

done.

Of_j|l thy V/wriw (jane, >n^ none left

A decoftion of wild gourd, or colocynthij,
though fomewhat qualified, will
not from «verr
hand be dulciftd into aliment, by
an addition of
fiour or

A thoufjnd young one,, which Iho daily f.,),

MiltJifaradiftl.rJI.

Whatever cuftom or law requires 50 be

3.

{duldfier, Fr.l To
fweeten ; to fet free from
acidity, fait,
nefs, or acrimony of any
kind.

Iflandick.]

a ««: 'pokon of
''k
beads, or in malice or
coijtampt of human beings.
^ "'??'« i

h.ive

7i DU'LCIFY. n,. a.

and the won^riutL,,,! and Popt.

Dt/G. »./ [</^/^/^,togIveGjck,

for after the

;

been to^
colcothar, the reddue is
not earth, but a niixt body,
rich in medical vir.
tues.
_

the ardour of my pafTion ipcreafc
at the
advanced, till In the month of
J„ly J couid
nc. longer contain , 1
bribed her ^a«»fl, wat admitted to the bath, faw her undreifed,

And by tommand of heaven's all-poworfbl king
•k"'!-

lalt of vitnol, if the
calcination
faint, IS drawn out of the

I felt

der difplaypd,

free.

acrimony.

In colco-har the exafteft
calcination, followed
reduce the re

(«.iljn

Stat./peere'i Cymidm.

,

Mi'i<^^

of fA-eetening ; the aft of

byan exquilite duldfic^tim, does not

man kept to guard a younger.

tnit {;ar)iind, not ?5 given by you,

Butai my merit and mv beaury'j dut.

aft

mammg body .n:o elementary e.utii

DVFNNA. n. /. [Spanilh.] An'oK^:

'i-^.y !;8 f o' ;h' kinsdom thog
hsft not forgo>,
Wherein J thee endow'd. SlfK/peart; Khg
Itar.
1 he dut ot honour in no point omit.

like an exhalation, with
the found

ing from acidity, faltnefs. or

for hit flrU

;

I

Sbjicfftare'iMa.l>eth.

Thou better Icnoiv'ft

r .t»Jce

1 he

The gentleman will, for hii hono n'l fake,^
have
one bout with you
he cannot by the dutllc avoid

The n^n of Duncan,
From whom this tynnt holds the dm of birth,

her fong. Sbahrt^.
^^''

honour.

ti'^'*»"0 the duel /the
^f^'^*^-"/role of duelling.

blood,

back.
harmonious breath,

the rude lea grew civil ,t

Afabrickhuge

.
„
Kofe

Of bearing tham in field, he threw "em away.

Hbaktiptart.

I.iTe»intl«:En|lilhcf>urr.

i hat

Wduhtt fymphanies, and voices fweer.

djy

may be julily cl.^inicd.
My dut from thee i| fbis impmial crown,

promontory,

One who profefles to Uudy the rules of Dulcif.ca'tion. ,./ [from dt^ldfy.]
Hi» bought arms Mung not Ijk'd

that which

;

Uttering iiu:h duUet and

U<y.l<,..

Sl>ait/f,ar(-i Ottd.'s.

' '*' "pon a

.

And heard a mermaid, on a dolphin's

Suckrmi.
Kcnceforth let poets, ere r.!lnw'd to writ-.
Be fearchd like d:,WM before they
fight.

.

,,
DCE. H./.^ [from
the adjeftive.]
,

Mutn

agam, without fiirther hurt.

To the Propontick and the Hcllcfpr.nt.

and Lrain. ]

[ dull

dious.

fa.l out

fcike the Poatick fra,

adi.

Sweet to the ear ; harmonious :
melo-

z.

Dtcay of Piety.

..

\S the king ends the diHerenees,
the cafe will
no worfe than vvhcn tw > dtiflUpi enter
the
field, where the worfted
party hath his f.vorJ

•

.

Fio.T) fweet kernels preii'd.

Du £I,LIST./,./ [from.yW.]
I. A fmgle combatant.

fome parr;.:! u>lutif)n made by the vinous
fpirit, which may tumble them to and fro.
Boyle.

D

She tempers dumi creams ; nor
tiicle to hold
Wants Ihc fit veiTels pure.

they foon get their troops about them.

d:ii to

_

A fiiigk

They perhaps begin at (ingle iut'Mn, but then
T»

I .V E

The petty rebel, A«/a;ryBuckingham.
Ut,U%.
yjv Lzz-r. adj. [dukis. Lat.l
I. Sweet to {he tafte
;
lufcioits..

combatant.

4- Confeqiient to ; occafioncd or efFeded
Proper, but not ufugl.
by.
The motion of the oily Jrops may be in part

difeaiy ; duly,
or due weft,

1 1 1 ,

inc title or quality of a duke.

2.

This arm of mine hath chaflh'd

Milnr'i Agi>r.in».

DuELLkR. n.f. [from 4'«,-/.j

Mjlicti.

duktdm of Tuf.

Stupid J doltift ; "foolifti.

To fave himfelt againlt a coward .irm'd.

Sidney.
And Eve wiifam, dur at her hour, prepar'd

Pu E. aJv. [from the adjcflive.] Exadly

Ilic cardinal never refigned
his purple f ,r c!.e

prolpea ot giving an heir to the

D u 'l B a A

Himfcif ^n .u-iny, now unequal match

[

Stahfpea>i; -Tarpfl.

cany.

,

without deviation.
You might Ice him omc tumrds me bcatipg
;

Prc.fpero his duittd.n

Jn a poor ille.

man is

To attack or fight with

vi,;ity ol cartlilv ,v.\,{utu,ni.

(crve luTter inraf.i;c.

t.

«.

<v.

fingjy.

Fordinner favoury t;u'ts.

Where he himfclf was loit ;

L'tlc.

»t»cndn? on tlioie f-ilf maitlss, a Jut lenfe of the

the ground in ib cui time, 45 no dancer
can ob-

1.

a

called dueilirg.

rruper. ; nt j

ExA^

3.

Herbruthsr found a wife.

— ^giit fo faftiionably and

genteelly haie been dvtUcd or
gujfcd into another

.Incline ever the wiltft oi ni«n to follow
Innocent

J.

-„

-

Smalridgt'i S,rmc,r,!.
TiiEri is a rsfpett lAr to mmkir.J, which

*

t« all good-

*"""'"«' '^^ l""^'' '" «nx mif.

^">y- ''-/.P-i^-'^.]
Kindotadorauon.
"
4r »

An inffnW
>

•

riisotos

t)

DUM

D U M

U L

fjme worflilp slikh W
gifrn tt» the prot.»typc nuy be given to tiie image j
buc with the diBcreiU degrees of latria ind ttulia'-

In bodies, luiion (Irepgtbencth and cherirtieth
any nitural liWna j and, on tiie other fide, wakenocti and dulhib any violent imprelTion : and
even f.> is it of minds.
Bact/ti.

bole. Saxon ;

mad, Duich.]

dol,

Stupid;

I.

;

doltiih ;

blockiih ; un.ippre-

6.

henlive ; indocile ; flow of undcrllanding.
Such is their evil bap to play upon dull fpirited
Jleoier.
men.
jnay complain of grofs breeding, or comes of a
Shjktff^arc^

fome.kind

perception, in

ot

bodies, is far more fubtilc t'lan the fenfe ; fj that

the fenfc is but a JaU thing in compariion of it.
B'con'i Naiural Uijlar^.
Every man, even the Sullijl, is thinking more
than the moll eloquent can teach him how to utDrydtn.
ter.

Blunt; obtufe.

3.

3. Unre.idy ;

To fully btighinefs.

awkward.

Gynccia a great while flood ftill, with a kind of
dull amazement, looking fledfallly upon her.
Sidnty,

O help thou my weak wit, and Ovarpen my dull
that we are not to fear it Ifaould grow dull for want

If they not thought the profits of my death

To niriic thcc ftek it.
Stupidly ;

cumftance dully^ literally, and meanly j but it becomes a painter to take what is moll beautiful*
Orydeti's Dufrefmy.
Z. Slowly ; fluggilhly.
The air, if it be moid, doth in a degree quench
the f.ame, and howfoever maketh it burn
>re

m

This

waxed

Not vigoroiifly ; not gaily ; not brightly ;

grofs, and their

Aialt. xiii. 1 5.
ears are du/l of hearing.
The princes of Germany had but a dull fear of
the greatnefs of Spain, upon a general apprchenfion i

Spevj'er.

4*

dumb (how.
Silent ; refufing to fpeak.

The good old fecr wlthftood
Th' intended tiealon, and was dumb to bSod

There was fpeech in their dumbnefs, language ii»
their very gcfture :

they looked as they had heard
of a world ranfonied, or one dedroyed.

in-

Scutb.

Want of quick perception.
ing.

Sbakcjfeare'i H'lrrer's Tale,

'Tis love, faid (he ; and then my downeaft eves.

And guilty dumhntfi, witnefs'd my lurpri/e. Dryd.
To Du'm fou n d. 1;. a. [from dumb.] To
confufe ; to ftrike dumb. A low phrafe.
They had like to have dumfiunded the jurtice;
but his clerk came in to his airiC.ance.'

1.

Thou art inclin'd to ileep. 'Tis a good dufnffs,
And give it way.
Shakefftarii Ttmfe^,
mirrour,
it
dull,
the
the
Not
bright
:
as,
9.
4. Sluggilhnefs of motion.
fire is dull.
5. Dimncfs ; want of luilre.
I'll not be made a foft and dull-cytd foo\,
6. Bluntnefs; want of edge.
To (hake the head, relent, and figh, and yield
To chriftian intetceflbrs. Shai. Al:rcb. ifVenkt. Du'ly. adv. [from «W.]
Properly ; fitly ; in the due manner.
10. Drowfy ; fleepy.
1
Ever fince they firmly have retained.
to Dull. t/. a. [from the adje£live.]
And duly well obferved his behead.
Sfex/er.
I. To ftupify ; to infatuate.
to

So wai; Hie dulled with all, that we could come

Thnfe drugs (he has

Will ftupify and dull the fenfe awhile.
&haktffiarc'i Cymbtl'mi.

3.

To blunt

to obtund.
;
Borrowing dulli the edge of induftry. Shakejf.
This entrance of the battle did whet the couraj,c
of the Spaniards, though it dulled their fwords.

3.

Tofadden; to make melancholy.

4.

To hebetate

;

to weaken.

Now forc'd tp ovc.riow with bracki(h tears.
The troublous noifc did dull their dainty ears.
Spfnfer.

Nothing hath more dulkd the wits, or taken
away the will of childrcu from learnir.g, than care
in making of Latin.
j^fjjam.
5. To damp ; to clog.
Prayers were (hort, as if dir^s thrown out with n
fuddea<iuickr.cfs, kli that vigilant and eic^ attea-

With fome fweet confort; to their indruments
Tune a deploring dumf : the night's de.id fticnce
Will well become fuch fweet complaining grievance.
Shaktff'eare.

Funerals with (lately pomp

My prayers

March (lowly on in folemn dump.
h'udibras.
The fquire who fought on bloody dumps.
future
By
bards bewail'd in doleful dumps.

Are not words duly hallcw'd, nor my wilbes
More worth than vanities yet prayers and wifhci
Arc all I can return.
Sbaiifpeare's Henry VIII.
;

In the body, when the principal parts, as the
heart and liver, do their offices, and all the inferiour fmaller veflels aft orderly and duly, there
arifes a fweet enjoyment upon the whole, which wc
call heslth.
Scuib.
If attention be du,y engaged to thofe rcfleftions,
they cannot fail of influence.
Rogers.
2.

Gay's Paji orals.
2.

Abfence of mind; reverie.
dumps fingularly.
'I his

Locke ufei

Ihame dumps caufe to well-'ored people,

when it carries them away from the company.

Dv, MfisH. adj. [from dump.]

Locke.

Sad; me-

lancholy ; iorrowful.

Regularly ; exaftly.
Seldom at church, 'twas fuch a bufy life;
But duly fent his family and wife.
Pvfe.

DUMB. •u/J. [dt], he was filent; dumbs,
Gothick: bumbe, Sa.von ; dum, DaDutch, dull.]
I. Mute; incapable of I'peech.
nilb ; tlom,

It hath plealed himfelf fometime to unloofe the
very tongues even ot dun: b creatures, and to teach
them to picaJ in their own defence, left the ciucity

of naa Ihould perfift to ail^ift them.

Sorrow; melancholy; fadnefs.
Sing no more ditties, fiog bo mo
Of dumps fo dull and heavy ;
The frauds of men were ever lo,
Since fommerfird was leafy. Sb.MucbAdt,
Vific by night your lady's chamber vilndow

make diSlionaries is dull ivark,

fo near as to hear her fpecchcs, and yet (Tie not
Sidnty.
perceive the hearers of her lamentation.

Sfiliatir.

DUMP. n.f. [from dam, llupid, Dutch.]

Here ccafe more quellions ;

as,

To th' dumbttefi oi the gedurc
One might interpret.
Sbakefp. Timon of Athens.
3. Refufal to fpeak ; filence.

BacGtt,

Drowunefs ; inclination to fleep.

3.

without words.

Incapacity to fpeak.
Omiffion of fpeech ; mutenefs.

Hudiirai.

Nature, by a continual ulc of any thing, groweth

Shakeff, Tvjo Gtmlemtn of Vrrona,

;

Of Ithacus, he (lood no longer mute. Dryd. JEn.
Du'mbly. adv. [from dumi.] Mutely ;

I.

Shadwcl alone my perfc-fl image bears.
Mature in dulnefi from his tender years. Dryden.
2.

Addijon,

Till tir'd with endlels clamours, and purfuit

z.

to a fatiety a.id duhifs either of appetite or work-

:

For he who covets gain in fuch excefs
Does by dumb (jgns himfelf as much exprefs.
As if in words at length be (how'd his mind.
Dryden s Juvenal.
Nothing is more common than for lovers t»
complain, relent, languilh, defjiaii, and die la

Are lefs ingenious in their art

but rather to inflame,' the charity of the teacher.

vile.
She exceis each mortal thing
Upon the dull earth dwelling.

Not exhilarating ; not delightful

Dumb eloquence perfuading more than fpeech.

Du'mbness, »./ [fromAw^.]

flownefs of apprehenfion.
Nor is the dulr.fji of the Icholar to extinguKh,

Grofs; cloggy;

t.

Sbaifjfeare's Mtrebatii ef J^trnce,
His gentle dumb exprclfion tuin'd at length
Millm.
Her humble gellures made the refidue plain,

The cjc of Eve to mark his play.

doci'.ity ;

3 . Sad ; melancholy.
6. Sluggifti; heavy; flow of motion.
Thenceforth the waters waxed dull and llow.
And all that drunk thereof did faint and feeble
grow.

can cor.vcrlc with a dunb (h.-.w ?

Who vary aOion with the times.
Than thofe who dully atl one part.

now that fear is lliarpened and pointed.

not uCng words.
;
He is a pioper nv.ui's pifture; hut, alas! who

filently ;

not keenly.
Not that 1 think thofe pantomimes,

Du'lness. »./ [from </«//.]
1. Stupidity; weaknes of intellefl;

Saceu,

7.

Bacon,

dully.

Hebetated ; not quick.
is

doltiflily.

It is not fufHcient to imititc nature in every cir-

Luit.
people's heart

Sbakijpeare't Kirg Lter

Du'llv. affv. [from Jull-I

3.

Mute

Rtje.mpiiit*

Were very pregnant and pote.itial fpurs

of exercife, if excrcife would make it ftronger.

4.

?

!

Logid-

I

They fung no itiore, or only fung his fame
Struck dumb, they all admir d the godlike man,
Drydin,

;

;

tyntli

Deprived of fpeech.

3.

The brcatii dulli the mirrour*
Bamr.,
Do'i. LARu. ». /. [from </«//.]
A blockhead a dolt a llupid fellow ; a dunce.
What ni.ik'd th'iu me a dullard in iliis aft
Wilt thou not fpeak to me ?
Hbokrffi* Cymbdint.
Thou moll m '.kc a dullard of the world.

Fairy ^een.

tongue.

Memory is (o necefTary to all conditions of lite,

r'ech.

•

z.

To

I.

Meeting with Tim<r, Slack thing, faid I,
Thy fey the is dull; whet it, for (hame. Htrheri.

borne p')fttive terms ftgnity a negative ideal
blind implies a privation o» fight, dumb a denial of

make heavy, or flow of motion.
Ufury dulli and damps a'l induftries, wherein monry Would befVirrirg, Ifi; were not for the (lug. Bac.

7.

He that hath lenmed nn wit by nature, nor aiti
very i^i*// kiadreil.
Som*.'times this

But like </iiwi llatues, or unbiejthing llon<i,
Stjr'd each on other.
Sbake/feare't Ricburd III.

Ih'.klr.

Sii.'.ugjiict.

DULL. aJj. [Jnvl, Welih

They fp ake not a word |

(ion of mind, which in prayer is very necelTary,
(boulj be walled or dulhd thiougli continuance.

Filfotiii ftith, that the

hooker.

New year, forth looking out of Janus' gate.
Doth feem to promifc hope of new delight

And bidding th' old adieu, his palled date
Bids all old thoughts to die in dumpijb fpight.
Spenfer*

The life which I live at this age it not a dead,
dumpi/h, and four life; but chearful, lively, and
pleafant.

Habere.

DuMPLiNo. n. /. [from dumf, heavinefs.]
A fort of pudding.
Pudding and Jumpling burn to pot.

Dryder.

DUK,

\

DUN

D U P

Dun. auj. [ban, Saxon.]
I. A colour partaking of brown and black.
We are not to eitpeil a rtrong and full white,
fuch

as is that of paprr j tut Liiije duficy oLIcui
fuch as might a:ac'#'jm a mixtuit; of llgiit
an;i daricr.ei-, or from white and Wick, that is, a
grey, or dim, or ruflit ijrowa.
f/m-hn'i Oftkis.
cnt',

DUN, I', a. [bunan, Saxoii,
'i'o

chitn a debt with vehe-

E-rrcw o;' ibj t^i'x, and borrow of thy bjlly :
they "H never alk tJiee again.
1 fliall be dunning
tVee every day.
£^ci.
V/hen thou a'v-r'J! th.ir paren-s, feldom rriPN,

his

I,

growth ;
Lili are

A* J hath fli; (e. t fo fc^on to dun f

ibmc raUaily liun — bir, remember my bill.
ylriuibmi't Jehu Bull.

» '"•!•

A dullard ; a dolt ; a thicka ftupid, indocile animal.

fiupid.]

'^"J-

Sivift.

Hcihjjs a thoufand other wi.'rids, that lie
Remote from us, and latent in the Sky,
Arc lighten'd by his beams, and kindly nurft,
Of which our earthly ,lur.^hil is the WJrft. Dryd.
3.

The poor he raifcth from the du!>,
4.

great a duitce to imagine a
thin;, idifiireiit in itfcli, fliould be direflly oppofite to the law of Gjd i
Sti.>fii:/firt.
I never kn:w this to*n without </Bnr{i if rigurc,

A term of reproach for a man meanly
Out, dunghii! dar'ft thou brave a nobleman ?
Sbiikejpeare.

Du'kghil. adj.
hii ;

;

bale ; vile ; vvorth-

His i/j/)>{W/ thought*, which do themfclves enure

For dung, all excrements are the refufe and pu-

To dirty drofj, no higher date afpire.

trefaftioni of nouiiflimcnt.

To Dung. -v. a. [from
manure with dung.

We need no grave to bury hnnefly

Sur^,

Du'pLicATURE. n.f. [from duplicateS]

lefs.

A

:

There's not a grain of it, the f.ice to fweeten
Of the whole dungy earth.
Slak. H'mt.r'i 7Me.

There, as his drea.-n foretold, a cart he found.

That carried compoft forth to dung the ground.
Drydrn,

,

tween the duplictttures of the membranes.

DupLi ciTV. ». /. [duplicis, Latin.]

3"^-

I.

Mr., timer

them cullomers,

Do not affeft duplidiics nor triplicities, itor any
certain number of parts, in your divifion

as their

Latin.]

of things.

Spiltator.

.p^

DuoDE CUPLE. adj.

[duo

and decuplus,

Je.vs,

in which prifoners were kept, whence
all
prifons eminently ftrong were in
:

Then up h: look the (lumbered fenfelefi corfe,
AnJ, ere he c-.uid out of his fwoon awake,

Him to his caftle brought with hafly force.
And in a durgen deej hinj thiew without remorfe.
S^enjtr,

2.

;

a man cafily tiicked.

doublenefs

Logick.

of heart or of

Durabi'lity. n.f. [durahilis, Latin.]
The power of lading; continuance;
endurance.
Stones, though in dignity of nature inferior unto plants, vet exceed them in lirmnefj of ibength,

; from duppe, a
foolilh bird, cafily caught.] A credulous

man

Deceit;
tongue.

Arbutbttot on Coim.

DUPE. n.f. [dupe, French

ff^iins's

.

Conftlling of twelves.

Grifeplius, a Ica.nci i^olander, endeavours
to
eflablifli the dmdicupU proportion among
the

by comparing fome padagcs of fcripture togctlici-.

A dole prilon

Doubltnefs ; the number of two.

Th'istluflkity was ill cnrrivc-d to place one head
at both extremes, .and had been
more tolerable to
have fet three or four at one. Brown's
Vulg. Err.

ployed in foliciting petty debts.
They arc ever talking of new liiks, and fcrve
the owners in getting

Riiy en thi Creation.

,

One em-

Dy NCEOw. n.f. [from donjon, the tower

generally fpoke of a prifon dark or lubterrancous.

any thing doubled.

place of the dunghii.
Any manner of vegcubles cad into the dung-

grounds

Bacant Nat. HiJI.

fold ;

The lymuhcdudls, cither dilaceratcd orobflnifl-cd, exonerate themlclves into the foldings,
or be-

Du'wcYARD. »./: [dung dind yard.] The

To

a doubling.
;
The peritoneum is a llrong membrane, every

where double; in the duylimtiins of which all the
vifcera of the abdomen are hid.
ft^J,n:.-:n'i

common rfa/iBtri do in making them pay.

It vias received qI old, that dunging of

time called dungeiiin.~\

A fold

;

Swift.

when the weft wind blowcth, and in the decreafc of
the moon, doth greatly help.

The act of folding together.

3.

Du'NGY.adj. [from dung.] Full ofdung
mean; vile; btife ; low; odious; wojth-

DuNNER. n.f. [from dun.]

the noun.]

2.

Spenjer on Love,

^

Pycjikuurd

What great pains hath been talAn concerning
the quadrature of a circle, and the
duf.'icatlo,: of a
cu'oe, and fome otiier mathcmaticdl prohlcns.
H'd''! Origin ofUmikini.

Sprung from the dung-

mean ; low

duflkatL-s u(

Duvlica'tion. »./ [from dup Lean:]
1. The aft of doubling.

lefs.

ment of animals ufed to fatten ground.

Such order from confufion fpr'ing,
Such gaudy tulips rais'd from dung.

the (ire ; to which end I h-ve rclerved
the mod confiderable.

born.

DUNG. «./ [bmej, Saxon.] The excr^e-

And blefs his rav'iih'd eyes to fee

Noth-ng is more needful f r perfei3irg the natural hifioryof bodies, tiian the fubjcaing
them to

Sandys.

i

Sjc.n'i Nui. liy.iiry.
1 judge the likclieft way to be the perforation ni
the body of the tree in fcvcral places, one above the
other; and the filling of the holes «i-ith dur.g,
mingled with the medicine; and the watering i.f
thofe lumps of </i(i»j with fqiiirts of an inlufion of
the medicine in dunged water, once in three or
four days.
Baccnt Natural Hiflwy.
For when from herbs the pure part muft be won
From grnf» by "ftilling, this is better done
By defpis'd dung than by the fiie or fun. Dcnnc.
He foon would learn to think like me,

Du'pi, ICATE.
Another correfpon
f.
dent to the firft ; a fecond tiling of the
fame kind, as a tranfcript of a paper.

Any fituation of meannefj.
Ev'n from the dungtit lifts the jufl.

or dtirabilily of being.
Hooker.
Our times upon the earth have neither certainty

A modern

nor dtirahilir,'.

word hardly clhibliflied.
An ufurping populace is its own </»/>?, a mere

DU'RABLE. adj. [durabiUs, Latin.]

unjerworkcr, and a purchafec in

I.

fingle tyrant.

by

of the fpreadingof the drp, and its touching each glafs in a larger furfjce
and again recj;
pracallyin a fimple proportion, by reifon
of the
a:tra£lions growing (irongcr within the fame
qi:antity of attraaing furfacc.
Ncwtini O^tkh.

Any mean or vile abode.

2.

i

who had ir d t er.ough to giie rife to fome row

of the

glalTes, v'.T. reciprocally in a fi.TipIc
proportion,
rcal'on

ftortdurition, is now fpread to enrich other men's

Dun c at till- b;!>, in ftreets but fcarce allow'd

To tickle, on thy ft;aw, the ftupid crowd. Drydcn.

recipioc^Hltin a i/i//..';.wr proportion of the diitance
o( the middle of the drop f.ora the concourfe

South.

The i/on^i;/ having raifed a huge mulhroom oi

[.A word of uncertaiii
periiaps from dum, Dutch,

Wai Ep'phanius f

4.
Ptiilips. b'ai-ris, BaiUy..
It has been found, that the attraflion
is almoit

upon a dunghii ! it is too noble a plant for fo bale
i

To my «-ria! cirai.l afcend^.
Pt-lipi,
It grieves my .-ej t to be pulJeJ by the fleeve b\

fcull ;

(irif term to the third is faid
to ba i;i a dup.itate
ra.io of the fir!> to the fec.md, or as
its fquare is
to the fquare of the fecond : 10 in
2, 4, ?, 16, the
ratio of 7 to 8 is a duplicite of that
of a n; 4, ot
as the fijuarc of j to the fijuaie of

^much bound to h\n\ as I.

ingratcfiil pe- fon j that is, plant not thy friendfliip

while my i'.ylefs minutes tedious flaw,
With looks demure, .and filent pace, idun,
Horrible morfter! hated by gods and men.
'1 iius,

;

/>i/.';<-(j/f proportion is the proportion
of (qjares.
Th;is, in a rank of geometrical propurti.-ns,
the

VEJlrangi.
Never enter into a league of friendfliip with an

importunate, troublefome creditor.

^GUti-vilU.

To told together.
Du'pucATE. adj. [from the verb.]

<!'"'f.H'-

S-u-ifi.

-

fentin:ents.

2.

Sl..hcJiici2re'i j4s yt:u like it.

DwN. »./. [•from the verb.] A clamorous,

n. /.

And fr me alterations in the brain duplicati that
which is but a (in^lc ofjoa to our undiftempercd

Two cocks fought a duel for the maftery of a

I remember what ihc won :

etymology

;

brother, gain nothins; under him but
for the which his anim«ls on his durg-

"Without a fuit be.\>rc cru tTibuae,pay. Oiyd.'J^-v.

Double;

tion ot the firft number or quantity.

[duvg znd/orL]
A
forkto tofs out dung from ftables.
Dungfarh and paddles are common eiery where.
Mcr timer.
^
Dv NCHiL. »./ [dung and hill.]
1. An heap or accumulation of dung.

cla-

itj

;

•nDU'rLICATE. -v. a. [.-/;.///>», L.-ttin,]
1. To "double
to enlarge by the repeti-

Du'ngfork. n./,

mence and i.Tipcrtunity.

Dunce,

uxi PLE. aaj. [duplus, Latin.]
one repeated.

entertaining himlelf with fcenes and landicapes,
more beautitiul than any chat can be found in the
whole compais of rature.
jijn'ifttn.

He then fun-ev'd
Hell and the go!ph between, and Satan there
C ja.ting the wall of l;eaven on this fide.
In I'le dun a'.r fub.'iir.e.
Mi'ion's ParaJife I.r,JI.

To

[from the noun,]

to cheat.

Faichlcfi ;hrough piety, and dl/^'d tinuugh wit.

By iaiagin.nio.T, a ir.an in a dungi^nii znfjax a'
^hcl.

;

The th; .le a bigot keep, a genius cuit

And fnow, aad hail, comu iKriry j-uft and fliw.

Come, thick night

mour.]

trick

Riuton.

And pali thee in the iur.reft luiolte of hell.

To

To Dupe, <u. a.

Bur.ijog their brazen i/a/j^.vr r arm'd with ice.

Dark ; gloomy.

Z.

D U R

V/eknowno'thatthekingofheav'n hath JDom'd
This place oar durtggoa ; not our (afe ictrcat
Beyond his potent ar'p.
Uli.'ion'i Varad.Je
l.'.ft.
No'v from the north
Of Norumbeque, and the Sa-.nocd Ciore,

trull

for

fome

Swift.

FirH (lave to words, then vaflal to a hamc,

Then dupt to party ; child and man the (ame,
Dutjiiitd.

RaUich's Hiflori.

Lalting ; having the quality of long
continuance.
The bines of his br^dy we may compare to the
hard rocks and (tones, and

JuraLle,

ih. icf irc

ftroni. and
BuUigh's ifftri.

Witk.

WUh pins of ad«mint,

may read a tluuOnd ytars
5w./'.

fllJdow of

GoJ.

|.

Dv'p.ABhtstts. a./. [ fiom tfuruile.]
Power of lalting ; continuance.

Imprifonment ;
ment.

2.

[In law. J
ception, by

The diflerent contiltcnce and Jurablctn^t of the
fliatj whereof they confirt, ate more or lefs.

fyocdward*

Addijon on ^ncUtil Midt2h*

Du'rablv. adv. [from durable.'^

him who, being

Du'rikc. prep.

manner.

call into

rably in men's memories.

/.

rante 'vita,

[from

durtffe,

law

French.]

Imprifonment ; the cuftody or power
of a jailor ; a prifon.
Thy DjI, and Helen of thy noble thoughts,

Latin.]

Shaitjpeare*

In duraitcr, upon the

[dureie,

When Jove in iujky clouds involves the (Hies,
And the faint crffcent (hoots by tits before their e)ci.
Drjdn,

The AirfaM It of a d-.ifiy yellow colour.
IVocdvard,

By mlKifl^ fuch powders, we are not to cxpeiS a
(Vrong and lull white, f«ch as <5 that of paper

French; durus,

j

hut fome dufiy oblcuro one, fueh «s might arifa
from > mixture of light and daikricfs, or from
white and black j that is, a grey, or dun. or ruiTet
hrown.
Ntrvhn's Oftkki,

Hardnefs ; firmnefs.

3.

Sick nature at that inftant trembled round,
i

tion, will fiv^u/iitl} 0£>jur to hi| fancy,

BmiUyi Scrmsnu
Uinhriel, a d^Jiy, melancholy fprite,
As ever fuMicd the fair face of light,
Down to the central earth, his proper fcene,

Durst. The preterite of d«re.
lly, becaufethcy would

rather die thandenle them-

felves with fucli an impiety,

Repairs to fearc'i the gloomy cave of fpleen,

St'ill'intjlcit.

DUST. »./. [bupe, Saxon

DUSK. adj. [d.iyfter, Dutch.]
1. Tending to darknefs,
SeeDvJKy.
2.

Tending to blacknefs !

1.

1

1

ne^, that if «« conceived it poffible for the joys of
heaTtn iifelf to pals from us in an Inftant, we
fljould find ourfelv'ei

not much concerned for the

attainment of them.

Rctrrs,

Length of continuance.

hy greatnrfs of aftion, does not only
mean it fhouM be great in its nature, but alfu In
Ariftotle,

that It fltould hare a due length in it.

Mdifin'i Sftflai'jr.

To DURE. V. n. [dun, Latin.] ToUftj
to continue

J.

to endure.
The delights and pleafurcs of the world are moft
pleafing while they dun,
Raleigb'i Hiftery.

)fo duji (el

AH (ollaw this, ,>nd come to duff,
Statc/f cart's Cj/aielktt

Thou
Out of the ground wail taken, know thy birth (

DutK. V. a. [from the noun.] To
DOl.
m.ikc duflcifli,
Ts DutK. V. n. To grow dark » to begin
to lofe light or brightnefs ; to have lulire
Dift,
diminifhed.
Du'sKiLv. adv. [from dujliy-l With a
tendency to darkneft or blacknefs,

For diifi thou art, and (hnlt la ditft r«tupn.

•To

J,

The durr/ul ot\i, whofc fap is not yet dried,
But when it o««e doih burn, it doth divide
Oteat heat, aoil makcj Iii> AamM to hcav'n afpire.
Sj>enfrr.

z.

Tending to blacknef?

j

dark- coloured.

Sight is not contenud with fuOden departments
from one extreme to another ) therefore rather a
iupiif] <\ai\<iK than an abfolute black.

W«iv«fi ^rcbittHurt,

On»

daft.

.

Spenjtr.

To fprinklc with doll.
whofe employment it.tocarry awav the

The dfflman'i eart o/fjndi thy elothes and ayet,

From his Infimal fumice forth he threw
H.ige Hames, that dimmed all the heaven's li^ht,
£nruird in dujk\p fmoke, and brimftope blue.

Sem, ii..8»

Du'»TUAN. ;?./, [du^ md Kian.)

Inclining to darkncfs j tending to ob-

Not in ufe.

1

,

3.

feurity.

Lafting ; of long continuance s durable.

Gud

taifoth up the poor out of (he daft, to f»t

Te fiujT. V. a. [from the noun.]
To free from duft,
I

Du'sKUH. adj. [hom d:iji.'\

Du'riful. adj. [from endure and /«//.]

lUUt,

A mean and dejefked ilate.
them among princes,

',

It l«Bg ere it conceive the kindling fire (

the ftate of diflblation.
;
The f<cBtre, ha.-ninj, phyfick, mull

off the whitenefs of the Ikin.

D,yd(n.

I.

tNc,

The grave

Some fprinkled freelcles on hh face wero |e«n,

Wh

foiling to th«

Uartn'i N»t»ral Hifttry^

neft.

Duraim is * circumrtj.icc fo elTcntUl to happi-

iti duraiKn ;

will

Darknefa of colour ; tendency to biack-

2.

maketh a

being liatth and water finely laid on.

wait on you In the diifl of th« 'evening,
with my fhow upon my back,
Sptffjt-yr.

c Power of continuance.

3.

a lliower eonieth,

fcurity.
I

Earth or other matter reduced to finall
Thedufl

©ura'tion. »./ [duraiie, Latin.]
Dusic. H.f, [from the adjeftive.]
I. A fort of diftance or length, the idea
Tendency to darkqefs ; incipient obwhereof we get, not from the permanent
parts of fpace.but from the fleeting and
perpetually perifiiing parts of I'ucceflion.

Pcp^,

dui/?, Erfe.l

Should have afcended to the roof of hcav'n,
Rais'd by your n.ipulaus troops.
iibakcffturt't /Is.-^iiy end Cls'.J^iilnt.
Dufl helpeth the frultfuint-(s of tress, infomucK
as ihoj call daft upon them
that powdering, when

Vapour and ohalation, t/o^ and moill,
Sent up amain.
MJiiiCi Parfdift Lip.

PryJtti.

;

particles.

dark-colourcd.

The hills, to their fupply,

How far more niijhty than heav'n's love, htll'f

Lscie.

Gloomv ; fad; intelleftually clouded.

Braivn's fulgar Brrtan,

The Chri'iians du*-Jf have no images of the Da-

Ard mother earth fi^h'J as Die felt the wound
Of lio'.v Ih'rt dura no was this new made rtate j

-

PaciAl,

their compaflnefs and duriiy.

Cofigrcve^s Old Ba<hthr,

I

pleafurc

WiiiU he continues in life, this dvjty (cen^ of
horrour, this melancholy prolpeil of tiiial pcrdi.

roe, I coimnitmyfelf to lafting <i«ri7rr».

duration.

but of a dufy brown colour,

Irradiancy or fparkllng, fuvmd In many g' ms,
Is not difcoverable in this \ for it Cometh fhort of

And yet mendurtnct there abide.

continuance ;
A doubtful word.

Sb.ieffeart,

It is not green,

ffiitcn's jli chill fluri,

Souib.

Portcullis, chain, nor bolt, nor grace

;

/

my

m

falfe accufationi of a lying,

In dungeons Icatce three inches wide,
ffudii,
Notwich|iandiag the warning and example before

my

eontimting ; during

Ancients did burn fr.igments of marble, which
in time became marble again, at leait of indifl'^iluble diirity, as appeareth
the (landing theatres',

A poor, innocent, forlorn (iranger, languifting
iafulent,whari(h woman.
There *s neither iron bar nor gate.

life

Du'rity. It./,

HauI'd tbithct by roechanick dirty hand:.

not

not clear ; not bright<
They did plat
The means that <^/ly Dis my daughter got.

Cixvell.

[This word is rather a

If dur'tJ'g his childhood he be constantly and rigoroufly kept from drinking cold liquor whilll he
is hot, forbearance grows into a habit.
/.^/r^r.

Is in \ii\t Autanii \n>ii contagious prifon :

obfcure ;

f'itr;

continuing the
fame.] For the time of the continuance
of; while any thing lafls.

p/ea/vre,

Siilmy.

darkncfs ;

Tending to blacknefs ; dark-coloured j

?.

participle from dure ; as, during life ; du-

There indeed he found his fane flourifliing, his
monuments engraved in marble, an^ yet more du-

hate

A pica ufed, by way of ex-

pofes to be conftrained.

In a

to

Cholc'd with ambition of khe meaner fort.
Sbak,
There fierce winds o'er i/b^ji valleys blow,
Whofe every putf bears empty (hades away. Pr^rf,
Through the plains of one continual day,
S|)t (hining monthi. purfue their even way
;
And fix fuccecJing urge their du^y flight,
Obfcur'd with vapours and o'crwhelm'd in night.

any bond to him daring his reftraint.
This the law holds as invalid, and fup-

the goodnefs of hi« vcrfe, may by the dyrablenefi of
the metal that fupports it.

Tending

Here lies the</(»|flv tortih of Mortimer,

confine-

conftraint ;

prifon at a man's fuit, or otherwife by
threats, beating, &c. hardly ufed, fcals

A bad poet, if he cannot become immortal by

z. Endur.-ince

I.

luminous.

MMcn.

I .

JJjcr.r'i t^'aiiirel Hijki)\

Du'sfcv. «dj, [from duJl; j duyfier, Dutch.)

B.itigt'i lll/iory.

verity.]

By prUent, pafl, and future.

1

made the fiull to burn dtfiijhij.

DVRESSE.n.f. [French; hai^lhip'. fe-

Time, though in eternity, applied
Tt> motion, meafuies all things duratlt

tt.

con Turned

Vet were that aptitude natural, more Inclinable
to foUaw and emLrace the falf: and durriefi p'eafarcs of this Itage-play world, than to become the

Having faccelEve exiftcnce.

Du' RANGE,

I'hc fawdult burned fair, till part ot tht candle
the dull gathering about the fijaft,

Not in {lie.

recoidcd in words more durable than btafs, and

lafting

Jy ; darkly.

continuance ; fading } trtnfitorjr ; fliorc.

.'

2.

Pu'sKi8Hty.#</D. [ftomduJUiJh,^ CJoucW«

Without

TJv'reless, adj. [from durt.]

And c1>«inS| they maJe illfaft; too f ift they m* If,
Anf JtritUe
Altlt-m'i Pararlijf Loft.
The gl()ii'« of her majcfty':. reign ought to b<r
fuch ai our ^l^rtt;
hence.

PUS

PUS

R

T) tl

When through tha ftreet a cloud of aOies flies.
Oty.

Du'iTV. Hdj.
I,

rfronj du^.']

Filled with auft j clouded with daA,
All our yoflerdayt have lighted f9oU
The way to duAl death.
Sbilujjeare,

Arms and the d„l!i (|flj>| left admire.
And foirn ftrangciy'ia Jomt now deAi*. Diydm,
s. Covtred

D W A

pur

Du'tifwlness. n.f. [from duli/ul.]

Covered or flattered with dull.

s.

Even Drudgery himfelf,

Obedience;

1.

As at the car he I'wcats, or ttujiy hews
Thrwfm'i Summer.
Tfe palace ftone, looks gay.

Piety, or dutifulnefi to parents, was a moft po-

pular virtue among the Ramans.

It is a ftrange kind of civility, and an evil dnijfulnefs in friends and relatives, to fuffer him to j-crilh without reproof or medicine, rather than to

The duke of Cornwal, and Regan his Juttbep,

Shakejlwes Kmg Liar.

The duke was to commanU the army, and the
foffefled, to ^e near
dulchtfs, by the favour ihe
herm.jelly.

,

.

feem unmannerly to a great finncr.
Tjy/or'i Rule of Living Holy.

^''''/'•

„

^

The cen'rous god who wit and gold rcnocs.
And ripens fpir'its as he ripens mioei.
Kept drofs for Juubcjfrs, the world (hall know it,
To vou gave fcnie, good humour, and a poet.
'

Du'TY.n./

[from due.}
1. That to which a man is by any natural
or legal obligation bound.

Luke, xvii. 10.

do.

A

a duke for its fove reign.

nature,

2.

it is

DuTCHY-couiT. »./. A court wherein

in all our duty ue.b<;g the

I

Divine aUiliance } and

3.

Think'll thou that duty

(ball

Obfequious ;

with to.
porpofes
I know thee well ; a fcrvlccable viUaia!
:

Decay if Piciy.
4. Aft of reverence or refpeft.

The,

Did duly to their I.,
fairy Stueen.
The buiioefs ot .1 luiuicr on guard.

The regiment did duly there pun^ually.

Than at Circean
Enjoined by duty ; enforced by the reThis fenfe is
lation of one to another.

Clarendon.
aa often as Galba fupped with him,
ufed to give every foldler upon duty an aureus.

Arbutbni/t on Coins.

The bufinefs of war ; fervice.

6.

The night came and fevered them, all parties
being tired with ihc duly of tlic day.
Clarendon.
See how the madmen bleed
Behold the gains
With which thcirmafter, love, rewards their pains I
For ('even long years, on duly ev'ry day,
Lo their obedience, and their monarch's pay
Dryden.

not now ufed.
With mine own tongue deny my facred right,
With mine own breath releafe all duuous ties.

!

Shakefpeare.

I

Du'xiFUt. adj.
Obedient

1.

;

[duty

and full."]

UibmifGve to natural or le-

All the wines

;

toll.

ever known or heard of.

Such (hekeh a< they now diew, were the old
ones in which duly was to be paid by their law.

firft

J.

1.

s

:

Junius.

To

d-werg,

Sbukcffeare.

Brown,

To inhabit

2.

2.

Mdtont Paradije Lofl.

Any animal or plant below its natural
bulk.

dwtlt,

or

;

to live in a

place ;

to

To live in any form of habitation.
Abraham fnjourncd in the land of pr;miifc as in

Now lefs than fmalleft dwarfs, in narrow room
'

preterite

a ftrange country, dwelling in tabernacles.

In bignefs to furpafs earth's giant fons.

Throng numberlcfs.

n.

refide ; to have an habitation.
If thy brother that dwellcth by thee be waxen
poor, and be fold unto thee, thou (halt not compel
Lev. xxv, 39.
him to frrvc as a bond-fervant.
He (hall dwell alone, without the camp (hall his
Lev, xiii. 46.
habitation be.
John Haywood and Sir Thomas More, in the
parifh wherein I was born, dtutlt and had polfefPeacbam.
fions.
Why are you vex'd, lady ? Why do you frown ?
Hejt dwell na frowns, nor anger ; from thefe gates
Milton.
Sorrow (lies far.

A man below the common fize of men.

Such divarfs were fome kind of apes.
They, but now who feem'd

ni.

ftiU.]

Gel you gone, you divarf

;

DWELL,

dnuelUd. [</W/«, old Teutonick, \%jiay,
delay ; duelia, Iflandick, 10 ftay, tolland

You minimus, of hind'ring knot-grafs made.

Obediently; fubmiiSvely.
refpedlfully.
Reverently
Hi^ daughter Phlloc!ca he found at that time
dutifully watching by her mother, and Milo cu:l
Sidney
oully watvhing her.
He with joyful, nimble wing,
Flew dutifully back again,
And made an bumble cbaplet for tbeking. Swift.

G hnijille* Scepfii.
To DwAui.E. 'V. a. [bpehan, Saxon, to
wander ; dwailen, Dutch.] To be delia provincial word mentioned by
rious

Dutch.]

Du'tifully. adv. [from dutiful.']
2.

;

littlenefs.

'Tis no wonder that fclence hath not outgrown
the dwarfifhnejs of its priftine ftature, and that the
intelleftual world is fuch a microcofm.

Arhutbnot on Coins.

Sidney.

meeting.

Minutenefs of itature ;

and taxes, before they reach the port.

DWARF. »./. [bpeopj, Saxon

trees, blefs the air,

Ber.lley,

Like a dwarf.

Mdifin.

Snvift to Pope.

and do dutiful reverence to
everything Ihe thought did accompany her at their

mofs, and defpicable mulhrooms.

Dwa'rfishly. adv. [from dtx;arjijh^'\

make their way through feveral

dutiei

There would (he kifs the ground, and thank the

other tall and lofty fons of the foreft, and have
found nothing but dwarfjh (hrubs, and creeping

1.

She died in an extreme old agr, without pain,
under the care of the moft dutiful Son that I have

Expreffive of refpeft ; giving token of
reverence ; refpeclful ; reverential.

Dryden.

wood.

We (hould have loft oaks apd cedars, and the

I

Tax; impoft; cuftom

7.

gal fupcriours ; reverent.

2.

With briars and brambles choak''d, and dwaifijh

Otlio,

Mdicn.

3.

Sboktjpeare's Kir.g yt,bn.

A thicket clofc bcfide the grove there flood.

i

Every beafi, more Juiaui at her call.
the herd difguis'd.

?

1

Dwa'rfishness. n.f. [from divarfjh.']

,

5.

As dutnut IS the vices of thy roiftrcfs,
Shakcff. King Ltar.
A> badnefs would defirc.
call

And are you grown fo high in his eftecm,
Shakefpiare.
Becaufe am fo dwarfifi} and fo low

have dread tn

God.

2.

Shaiejpcart's Henry VIII.

As cherubins, all gilt.

The ki/ig doth fmile at ; and is v/ell pvepar'd
"f » whip this dwarfp visr, thefe pigmy arms.
From out the circle of his territories.

And through the liquid fields again to pafs
Priir.

the natur.il bulk; low; fmall ; littles
petty ; defpicable.
Th'jir divarfp pages were

Obedience or fubmiffion due to parents, governours, or fupcriours ; loy-

Dryd,
In ficknefs patient, and in death rcfign'd.
Who taught the bee with winds and rains to ftrive,
To bring her burden to the certain hive ;

obedient to good or bad

Addtfon.

This uiih^'fi faucinefs, and bojiih tioops,

fpeak.
When p'jw'rto flatt'rybows ? To plainnefs honour
Is bound, when majclty to folly falls.
Sbiikffpeare^i King Lear.
God*s party will appear fmall, and the king's
not greater; it being not probable, that thofe
(bould have fenfe of duly to him that had none to

Duiauit and hark'ning t* the founding brafs ?

Bacon^s Natural Hijiory*

The whole fex is in a manner dioarfed, and

Dwa'rfish. adj. [from dTvarf."] Below

alty ; piety to parents.

;

over a tree grafted low, foon after itputteth forth,

T*iy/*r'i Devotion.

Great Aurengzebe diiJutnjt careexprcfs.

A dursoui daughter, and a fiflcr kind

to make little.
good {Irong canvas, fpread

another fpecies.
:

remember that you are bound to do all thofe duiia,
for the doing of which you have prayed for the

I

to leffen ;

It is reported that a

fhrunk into a race of beauties, that I'ecms almod

rity.

Dryjen,

bulk ;

plural.

Divine alTil^aiice.

A female fofuiefs, with a manly mind

fuckle.

Shfkcffeare.
All our duty is fet down in our prayers, becaufe

Du'teous. adj. [from (/«/>>.]

And duift not puQi too far bis great fuccefs.

4. It is ufed often by botanifts in compofition ; as, d'auar/'-elder, ^luor/'-honey-

will divarf \X, and make it fpread.

all matters appertaining to the dutchy of

refpeflful to
1. Obedient; obfequious;
thofe who have natural or Itgal autho-

Loile.

the duty of parents to relieve.

Return thofe dutiei back, as arc right fit
Obey you, love you, and moft honour you.

S-w-fr.

Lancafter are decided by the decree of
Cc^ell.
the chancellor of that court.

The champion ftout,
Eftfooncs difmounted from his courf?r brave,
And to the divarf awhile his ncedlefa fpear he
gave.
Spenfei-t

Afts or forbearances required by religion or morality. In this fenfe it has a

Good my lord.
You have begot me, bred me, lov'd me

up his wh-jlc

dutcby.

well growili'

romances.

The pain children feel from any ncccflity of

Different ftates border on it ; the kingdom of.
France, the dutihy of Savoy, and the canton of
jiddij'ai ea Italy.
Btrn.

France might baie fwallowed

all

and fmooth, one dwarf was knotty and
L^EJlr
crooked, and the reft had it in derilion.
Saw off the (lock in a imooth place ; and for
•warf trees, graft them within four fingfrs of the
Mort'.tn-r.
ground.
3. An attendant on a lady or knight in
fair,

:

dukedom.
terriDu'tchy. n.f. [</«c-^*, French.]
tory which gives title to a duke, or has

WE

When ye (hall have done all thofe things which To Dwarf, w. a. [from the noun.] To
are commanded yoo, fay, We are urprolitabie lerhinder from growing to the natural
vants
we have done that which was our duty to

Pofe.

A lady who has the fovereignty ot a

2.

Dryden't JEn.

Reverence ; refpecl.

2.

The lady of a duke.

will be here.

to jull autho-

fubniiffion

rity.

Du'tchess. n.f. \dtitpiffe, French.]
1.

D-

In a delicate plantation of trees,

Heb.x'i, 9>

3.

To be in acy (late or condition.
'Tis fafer to be thatwhich we deft-oy,

Thau by dcftrut^icn dwell in doubtful joy. Shat.
4.

To

D W I

D W E
4.

be fufpended with attention; to
hang upon with care or fondnefs.

To

He'in great pairion all this while did Htvtll i

My

Th" attentive queen
Sii:ilb's PtteJ. t'JHiffol.

JJwfll on his accents.

Such .vas that face, on which I Jmrlt with

joy,

Eic Cir;cce alTerobled ftemtn'd the tiJei to Troy.
5,

State of life ;

1.

view,

111 IK bufying his quick' eyM her face ro
Than his dull ears to hear what ike did tell.

has in tcfpcft of
his dweHinghcufi, which he
at the
habitation and ul'uil refidence ; and not

Bat on eternal mercy lov'd to diviH.
Drjden's Good Parfin.

We

i'wi/r.

To inhabit. Not ufed.

z.

Jci: x\\\..%V

him fort them
may find in

Alterhary.

fo, that what he winteth in the one he

though begun with dtcdd-tviadltd into
lent intentions, are faid to have
i'w!/"'foaious clubs.
lofe health 5 to
to
away
wear
;
3.
' ' ''
grow feeble.
]

^'''"'•

Religioui

.

God will deign

To vifit ofl the</w«'/in£i of juft men,
Miltott't Paradife LtjI.

TJelighted.

Flood overwhelm'd, and them with all their pomp
Deep under water roli'd ; fca covcr'd fea.

Weary fev'nnlghts ntne tiines nine,
Shall he dioindle, peak, and pine.

Milttn's Paradife Loft.
The living few, and frequent funerals, then
Troclaim'd thy wrath on this forfikcn place ;
!

Sh.iieff tare's Matteih.
being
fee, that fome fmall part of the foot
or
injured by a wrench or a blow, the whol« leg

We

And now thofe few, who arc return'd again,

Tky fearchin^ judgments to thtit dv/tltings trace.
Drjdtiu

fociet'ies,

To

All d-mtllings elfe

Sea without fliore

m

BtntUy.
produftion of vegetables ?
H« found the cxpetlcJ council was dtvindhng
of Julian
into a conventicle, a packed aflembly
biihops, not a free convention of fathers.

I

thigh thereby lofes its ftrengtb and nourirtiment,
i«*''
aad d-windUi away.

An un-

equal mixture of elements in the blood
or nervous juice ; a diftemperature,

when fome humour or quality abounds
Diff.

in the body.
In this

dyfcrafi of blood, i»re muHi
pituita, and purge upon ioiermif--

pjtuitous

vomit off the

Fliysr en the Ifvmii't,

fiins.

Dvsb'ntery. «. /.

[efy/enterie,

French,

A loofencfs, wherein
from JicriiTi{i«.]
very ill humoars flow off by ttool, and
are alfo fometimes attended with blood..
Di&,
From aiir unufual Inconftancy of the woathtr,

N'rrii.

infefts,

P'i^-

princoi.

Dy'scrasy. «./ [W«{«»!«.]

fluff.

gradual diminution
If there have been fuch »
that it hath
of the generative faculty of the earth,
micQ anJ
d-windUd from nobler animals to puny
tie
why was there not tha like decay

abode.
I, Habitation; place of refidence ;
His dwelling is low in a valley green.
Under the foot of Rauran molTy hore. Fairy ^an.
Hazor fliall be idwtUing for dragons and a de-

the other.

up tha Egyptian 4m/'"i hcf ire the flood, yea, an4
long before the creation. Uah't Origin nf Mankind,
Greece was divided into fcrcral dynaji'.ei, which,
our author ha. enumerated under their rofpsftive

to fink.

•Tis now d-windltd down to light frothy

Dwe'lling. »./. [from divell."]

folation for ever..
If he have feveral diatlHirgi, let

;

•

fovcreignty.

^H"'

To degenerate

wens

Dr'NASTY. n.f, [Jt.;^r;i<t] Government}

Drjdin,

occupa-

rtrft

Ch nrj.-i,

Some a..couiit him fjbuljus, becaufe he carrle«

Englifli,
Proper names, when familiarized in
dwiiA to monofylhbles ; whercM in other Unof
addition
Euages they receive a fofter turn, by the
Mdijen.
\ new fyllable.
Our drooping days are dwindled down to nought.
Their period finiiTiM ere "tis well begun. 7bovijon.

The houfes being kept up, did of nccelfity enforce
« Jiuelltr ; and the proportion of land for
that
tion being kept up, did of ncceflity enforce
of
dwi//er not to be beggar or cottager, but a man
Bflren'j tUnry Vil.
Ibme fubftance.
Their cries foon waken all the divtllin near \
Now murmuring norfts rife in every ftreet. Dr;/d.

the

The participle of ifie.
Expiring j giving up the gWi,
t. Tinging ; giving a new colour.

Thy' divindlid less fcem crawling to the grave.

bitant ; one that lives in any place.

left.;

I.

little.

Dwe'ller. »./. [from ifivflJ.] An inha-

to

See Die.

DvE.

and

To Dwi'nole. -v. n. [bpinan. Saxon.]
bulk; to grow
I. To (brink; to lofe

fonnetimej
I faw and heard ; for wo
Who/aJf/Zthis wild , conftrain'd by want, <»me forth
To town or village nigh. Milim's Par. Rfgal'iJ.

;

Dy'i KC.

fome muft
ftrengtU.

to be dirainiflved

foot and thrtc hundicd horfe
dtDindled 'w^v.

and
People do often change their divellingplacti,
up into
die, whilft other fomc do grow

have </wc/r pretty long on the confiderations
Locke.
of fpace and duration.
Thole who defend our negotiators, difdl upon
their leal and patience.

4)/#"' P'"-"^'-'-

place of his birth.

Dwe'llino PLACE. ». / [dwell
The place of refidence.
place.]

;

nioulder off.
Under Grecnvil, there were only five liundrei,

the fiild.
Dunirl.

or the
houfe which he has in tefpeft oj his eftate,

He preach'd thi-joys ot heav'n, and pains of hell,
And warn'd the finnerwith becoming zeal;

To fall away

4.

mode of living.

Hii:cinr.r (hall be with the beafts of

Dwe'llinohousb. n.f. [from </aw//and
The houfe at which one lives.
S>ufe.'\
of
A pcrfon ought always to be clteJ at the place his

To continue long fpeiking.

To Dwell, t/. a.

D Y S
Phyficlans, with tb«ir milky cheer,
Tlis love-fick maid and dwitdlwg beau repa'i'.
Gojf.

The force of fire sfccnded fuA on K^h,
And tMk it% dwtirwr in the vaulted flcy.
Vrjdn't Ovtc,

,
'

and perpetual changes of the wind from

eai> to

weft, proceed epiiicmica!^^/fWfieJ. /iiiu'l-.en-ei^r,

Dvspr'fsy. »./. [Sucrvfi,'M.]

A difficuhy

of digeftion, or bad fermentation in tha
D'^,
ftomach or guts.

Dy's PHONY. ?!./. [ivc-j!ann.'] A difficult/
in fpeaking, occafioncd by
fition of tha organs.

Dici.

_

Dyspno'ea. »./ [iiairvom.]
of breathing j

an ill diipo-

A <H5icalty

ftraitneis of breath.

Dy'sury. ».y; [ivm^U.]

A difficulty in

making urine.
It

doth end in a dyfentcry, pains of the hsmor-

rhoids, inrtammations of any of the lower p«rts,
dlabeas, a continual piffmg, or a hatdjfury, difficulty of making water,

mrveft

E.

E
E A D

E, quent vowel

Englifh language; for it not only is ufed like the
reft in the beginning or end of words,
but has the peculiar quality of lengthening the foregoing vowel, as, t^n, cnne ;
m\n, m'me; gip. g'lpe ; gl'id, gl'ie ; bred,
br;de;

chin,

the

in

chme; lu'p,

nvpe;

Yet it fometimes occurs final, where yet
the foregoing vowel is not lengthened
zs gone, ino'w/fdge, edge, glife. Anciently
;

almoft every word ended with e, as for
can, canne; (or year, yeare; for great,
for need, neede;

iox flock, Jioche.

It is probable that this e final liad at firft

a foft found, like the female e of the
French ; and that afterwards it was in
poetr)- cither mute or vocal, as the verfe
required, 'till at laft it became univerfally filent.

Ea has the found of e long ; the e is commonly lengthened rather by the immediate addition of a than by the appofition
of e to the end of the word as men,
;

mean •,Jel,/eal; mil, meat; ntt, neat.
Each. prvn. [elc, Saxon; tlch, Dutch; ilk,

2.

Every one of any number.

This fenfe

is rare, except in poetry,
Th' invention all admir'd, aad each how he
J

keenly

To be the invcntet miis'd.

Milton.

By hunger, thatmrii other creature tames,

Thou art not to be harm'd, therefore not mov'd

Thy iemperance invincible bclides.

is other,

'Tis (aid they eat each other,
Sbatt/p. Macbeth.
Let each tfintm otliir belter than thcintcives.

P til. n.i.

Loveliet^ of women! heaven is in thy foul;

Beaut)- and virtue ihine for ever round thee,

Ead •'••
bieflednefs.

To guide the chariot, and to give the day.

Thou art all divine.
AJdIfoH't Cato.

py prcferver; Eadulpb.h^ji^y affiftance;
Eadgar, happy power; Eadiuin, happy
conqueror; which Macahui Eupolemm,
Feliciaimi, Sec.

do

in

fome meafure refemble. Ead may alfo
in fome cafes be derived from the S;ixon
eatb, which figiiifies eafy, gentle, mild.
,,

_

Vol, I,

are

Locke.
with as

received

verts

Quick; bufy; eafily put in aftion.

The things of this world, with whatever eagernefs they engage our

purfuit, leave us

.

empty

ftill

and unfatisfied with their fruition,

Rogers.

Impetuofity ; vehemence ; violence.
-

It finds them in the eagernefs and height of their
devotion ; they are fpeechlefs for the time tl'.at it
continues, and proltrate and dead when it departs.

Dryiit)!.
I'll kill thee with fuch eagernefs of hafte.

As hends, let loofe, would lay all nature wafte.

1

Dryden,

E.^'GLE. «;/;

fa/V/r, French ; ajuila, La^

tin ; ealln-, Erie.]
1.

I

His Numidlan genius
Is wcUdJfpos'd to mifchief, were he prompt
And eager <»f it ; but he mull be fpurr'd. Add!/. Cato.
5. Sh.irp; fower; acid.

Addifm.

fo much at heart.

Apt as well to quicken the fpirits as to allay that
which is too eager.
Hooker.
Nor do the eager clamours of difputants yield
more relief to eclipl'ed truth, than did the founding
brafs of old to the labouring moon.
Glanville^ s Scefjtr.
ImperfeA zeal is hot and etgtr, without knowledge.
Sfratt.
Eager his tone, and ardent were liis eyes. Dryden.
A man, charged with a crime of which he thinks
himfelf innocent, is apt to be too eager In his own
defence.
Dryden.

,,

AdJifatU Cato.
His continued application to pubhck atVairs dihim from thofc pleafures which are purfued
with eagernefs by princes who have not the publick

Drydin.

fometimes with «/', fometimes
withyir, fometimes with on or after before the thing fought.
3. Hot of difpofition; vehement; ardent;
impetuous.

'

With a fudJen vigour it doth poffet

And curd, like eager droppings into milk.
The thin and wholefome blood. Sbatejp. Hamlet.
;

oilo^juy

Addifon'i Freeholder
Jaba lives to catch
That dear embrace, and to return it too.
With mutual warmth and ^^^crw^ of love.

2. It is ufed

Keen

and

much eagernefs as wit anu humour.

liore inflant'd, and eager oxi his blifs,
Smother'd: her words.
AJJifin's Ovid.

A bird of prey, which, as it is reported,
renews its age when it grows old. It is
alfo faid not to drink at all, like other
birds with (harp claws.
It is given out,
that when an eagle fees its young fo well
grown as to venture upon flying, it hovers over their neft, and excites them td"
imitate it, and take their flight; and
when it fees them weary, or fearful, it
takes

feverc ; biting.

them upon

its

Eagles arc

back.

faid to be extremely fljarp-fighted, and,

The airbites Ihrewdly; it is very cold.

when they take flight, fpring perpendi-

It is a nipping and an eager air.

Shakrff. Hamlet.
The flcfli ihrioketh, but the bone refillcih, where-

cularly upward, with their eyes fteadily
fixed upon the fun.

by the cold becometh more eager.

Calmit,

Draw forth the monfters of the abyfs p^ofound,
Or fetch th' aerial eagle to the ground.
^^*.
cant
<
2, The ftandard of the ancient ^flw^w.

^ib, Camden.

A

word of artificers.
Cold
it,

will be fometimes To eager, as artilh call
that it will as little endure the hammer as glafs

_ Arts

petuofity of inclination.
To the holy war how fall and eagerly did men
go, when the prieft perfuadcd them that whofoevcr
died in that expedition was a martyr f
South.
How eagerly h« Bew, when Europe's fate
Did for the feed of future adlions wait.
Stepney,
I.

Ev'ry one is eagle-eyed to fee
Another's faults and his deformity.

Ea'glespeed.
,

».

/.

\eagle

Dryden,

and ffecd.^

Swiftnefs like that of an eagle.
Abrupt, with ragAy/)n</lhe cut the Iky,

Pope

Inftant invifiblc 10 niurtal eye.

Ea'clestonb. n. f.

,

Whohaviiig fome advantage 00 Oflavms,

Took it too eagerly; his foldiers fell to fpoil,
Whilft we by Ajitlipny were all inclos'd.
Shakefp
3. Keenly ; fharply.
Abundance of rain froie fo eagerly as it fell,
that it fccmed the depth of winter had of a fodden
been come in.
Knoltet's HlJIory of the Turks

Ea'cerness. »•./. [(torn eager.]

I

affirmed to have a particular virtue in de-

fending the eagle's neft from thunder.

,

Keenncfs of defire; ardour of inclination.
She knew ber diilance,'and did angln fo^me,

Madding my ttgetnrjt with Ijei idtniat.

Cfilmef,

,

I
'

.'

.

A ftone faid to b«'

found at the intrance of the holes in
which the eagles make their neds, and

'

I.

Hoviel,

his fubjefts.

Ardently; hotly.
Brutus gave the word too early,

where Rome's e,igtes flew. Pope*

Sharp-fighted as an eagle.
As nc was quick and perfpicacious. To was he
inwardly eagle-eyed, and verfed in the humours of

Lecie.

itfelf.

ftill followed

Ea'gle-eyed. adj. [hom eagle znd eyed.'\

Ea'g iKLX. eiJv.[ftom eager.y
I. With great ardour of defire; with im-

Thus Ead-ward is a hap-

taiijia, Eortunntui,

drance to it.
Detraftion

And, eugn-, for the journey, foon prepar' J
He longs the world beneath him to furvey,

[*d. ed.] in the compound, and endlg
the fimpfe names, denotes happinefs.

1^,

knowledge, if not warily regulated, is often an hin-

7. Brittle; inflexible; nottludile.

j

whether it be ufed of two, or of a greater number.

Bright'ning Mr<& cilxr !

defire;

Jiaem's Natural ITlfiorJ.

Millon'i Par. Reg.
Wife Plato faid, the world with men was ftor'd.
That fuccour taeh to other might afford. Denhum.

To Each the correfpondent word

wi(hing;

in

EjgertaTCiAihzn&, Achatescamc. Dryien'sMn.
With joy the ambitious youth his mother heard,

—

Fit well his helm.

ardently

vehement

aigre,

D>yJt-fi*s O'utii.

6.

Let each

defirous;

Have you not feen, when whiftled from the fift.
Some faulcon iWp'd at what her eyedefign'd.
And, with hneagernefi, the quarry mifs'd. Drydeie,
The eageritefs and ilrong bent of the mind after

Saxon;

Of aftion eager, and intent of thought,
The chiets your honourable danger fought.

Milicn.

His adamantine coat gird well, and each

feaiorv,

hotly longing.

4.

Scottilh.
1. Either of two.
Though your orbs ofdifferent jreatnefs be.
Yet both arc tor each other's ufe difpos'd ;
His to itidofc, and your's to be inclosM.
Drydcfi.

ttdj.

French.]
Struck with defire;

1.

thin,

thine ; nod, node ; t'm, tine; plum, pl'ime.

greate;

EA'GER.

E is the moll fre-

(hort, as men.

E A G

E A G

Has two founds ; long, &s,fcem, and

I

Shakefji.
1

The eaglrflme contains, in a cavity within It»
a fmall loofe ilonc, which rattles when it is fliaken ;
and every folTil, with a nucleus in it, has obtained
the name. The analogy between a itone, thus
containing another within it, or, as the fanciful
writers exprefs vt, pregnant with anptlicr,'' and a
woman big with child, led people to .iov^gine that
4 N

,

,

.

k.

|

EAR
it

mud

tnd imngiiiar)- virtues was r?ifcd all the credit
which this famous lutlil poirelTed for many ages.
Hill't Mjuria MrJici
If you ftop the holes of a hawlc's M\ it will I
md\ic no ring, but a flat noifc or rattle ; and la
doth tlie Ktiies, or tagl'Jhiu, which hith a little
Haron. g.
Itonc within it.

A youn^

Ea'clet. u. f. [from tagU.\

eagle.
This trcafon of his fons did the king cxprtfs in
an emblem, wherein was an cajle with three tagldt
tyring on her breatt, and the fourth pecking at one
Dairies

of her eyes.
\_'rgre,

Riinick,

in

Any prominences from a larger body,

who attefts, or can atteft any thing is-

raifed for the fake of holding it.
There are forac vclTels, which, if you oflTer to
lilt by the belly or bottom, you cannot llir them
but ate foon removed, if you take them by tke ears.
Tajhr's Rule of livini helj,
A cjuiltcd night cap with one ear,
Cong, kfay of ibe World,

heard by himfelf.
All prefent were made earviltneffes, even of each

8.

or retarding delivery; to ihati it lied to the arm
of a woman with cnildt it prevents abortion; and
On ftich idle
if to the leg, it promotes delivery.

Ka'gre. k. /.

A pot without an r.]r,
The fpike of corn;

Ea'i.oerm.»n. m. f. [ealoepman, Saxon.]
The name of a Saxon magiftrate; alderman.
Eame. ft./, [eam, Saxon; com, Dutch.]
Uncle a word ftill ufed in the wilder
parts of Staffbrdftiire.
:

Daughter, fays fhe, fly, fly ; behold thy dame
Torelhows the treafon of thy wretched eame !
aor,

Sbakejf. Much Ado.
Stand 1 condcmn'd
P/". xiiiv. 1 5.
His ears are open unto their cry.
Valfalva difcovered fome palTages inio the region
of the tfijr drum; of mighty ufe, among others, to

make dil'charges of hruifes.
DerbanCi PhyJtco-TbeoUgy
2. That part of the ear that ftands prominent.
Yon have heard of the news abroad: I mean,
the whifper'd ones; for they are yet but ear kifling
Shakc/feare.
arguments.
His mafter (hall bore his ear through with an awl.

ExoJ.
3. Power of judging of harmony ; the fcnfe
of hearing.

She has a delicate ear, and her voice is mulick.
Rlchardfott.

The head;

^.

or the perfon: in familiar

language.
Their warlike force was fore weakened, the city
beaten down about their ears^ and moll of them
Kiollei.
wounded.
Better pafs over an affront from one fcoundrel,
whole
eart,
the
herd
about
a
draw
man's
than
if all

The higheft part of a man
.\ cavalier was

fine lady.
t).

;

He that etri my land fpares my teanit and giret
me leave to enjoy the crop.
Menecrates and Menas, famous pirates.

Make the fea fcrvc them, which they ear and wound
With keels of every kind. Shakejp, Ant. and Ckof,

A rough valley, which is neither eared dov fown.
Deuter,

fwe years, in the which there Ihall neither Iw

very large ears, full of large com.

Mortimer's Hujhandrj.

XO.^o beby theYjK^%.
7^° fight;
To fall together by the'£.Kt,%^^ to fcuffle;

Gen. xiv. ^,
eanirg^ nor harvetl.
The field of love, with plough of virtue ear'd.
Fairfax,

Tt Ear. v.

n.

[from

ear.'\

To-fhoot into

cars.

Tt go together by the EkV.i. ) to quar- Ea'red. aelj, [from ear,'\
[In Dutch otrlogen.'l
A familiar 1 Having ears, or organs of hearing..
2, Having ears, or ripe com.
phrafe.
rel.

Poor naked men belaboured one another with
fliagged rticks, or dully fell together hj the ears at

More,

fifty-cufl^s.

Fools go together by the eart, to have knaves run
away with the Hakes.
L'EJIrangr.
All Atia now was by the eart.
And gods beat up for volunteers.
Prior

Ttfetby t/je Ears. To make
in low language,

to quarrel

ftrife;

:

A mean rafcaly>/r othert together by the ears

V Eftrange.

without fighting himfelf.

She ufed to carry talcs from one to another, 'till
fhe hady^/ tJie neighbourhood together by the ears.

The covert of the thrice ear'd field
Saw (lately Ceres to her palTion yield.

EARL, n, f, [eopl, Saxon;

Erie.]

A title of nobility, anciently the highcll
of this nation, now the third..
Thanes and kinfmen,
Hencelbrth be earls, the finl that ever Scotland
For fuch an honour nam'd.
Skakefp, Macietb,

EftRL-MA.RSHAL. ». /. [earl and marjhal.\
He that haschief care cf military folem.
nities.

The marching troops through Athens take tbeit
way;

Arbutbnot,
It is ufualtoyr/thefe poor animals J^fiie ears.

Pope't OiyJ".

eoryl,

The great earl-mafhal oritn their array. Dryden

1

Ea'rldom. »./. [fromrar/.] The feigniory
[from ttttil Without any
of an earl ; the title and digrtity of aa
Addifon,

Ea'rless. adj.
ears.

earl.

Earlefi on high ftood unabafli'd Defoe,

And Tutchin flagrant from the fcourge below. Pope,
Ea'rring. »./.. \ear and rirtg.'\ Jewels fet
in a ring and worn at the ears; ornaments of a woman's ear.
With gold and filver they increafe his ftore,.

And gave the precious eairings which they wore.
Sandys.
lady bellowed earrings upon a favourite lamArhuthnot,
prey.

A

Ea'rshot. ». /. Reach of the ear; fpace
within which words may be heard.
Gomez, Hand you out. oi earjhot,
thing to fay to your wife in private.

Ea'rwax. »./.

— have ibme1

Dryden's Spanijh Fryar.
[ear and luax,]
The ce-

rumen or exudation which fmears the in-

The duke of Clarence having married the heir
of the earl of Ulder, and by her having all the
earldom of Ulfter, carefully went about rcdrcllinj
evils.
S^enfet's Ireland',
When I>am king, claim- thou of me
The**ir/*y&M of Hereford.
Shak-fp. RichardWX,

Ea'rliness. «./. f from ftzr/)-.J (^icknefs
of any afljon with refpeft to fomething
as, earlinefs in the morning, the ail
elfe
of rifmg foon with refpeft to the fun ;
earlinefs of growth, the aft of growing
up foon in compariIba<with other things
of the fame kind.
The next morning we, having (Iriven with fhe
:

fun's

earlinefs,

higheft turrets.

were beyond the profpe£l of the
Sidney,

The goodnefs of the crop is great gain, if the
goodncfsanfwer the earlinefs of coming up.

fide of the ear.

Bacon,

Ea'RLY. aelj. [sp, Saxon, before.] Soon

fome danger that infcfts might creep in thereat;

Burnet's Theory,

therefore hath nature loricated or plaillered over the
fidciof the hole with eurMiax, 10 entangle infects
Ray om the Creation.

with refpeft to fomething elfe as, ii»
the morning, with refpeft to the fun ; in
time, with refpeft to creation; in the
feafon, in comparifon with other pro-

the top.

up to the eart in love witn a very
EJIrange.

V

ly heard; favour.
ArlHippus wa( camcft fuitor to Dionylius for
fome grant, who would give no ear to his fuit

Ea'rwig. ». /. [eape and pijsa, a grub,
Saxon.
1. A fheath-winged

Baeon's Afofbihegihs,

Were willing at (Kc firft to give an ear

Doll never flies to cut her lace,

Ben yon/on.

If on a pillor)', or near a throne.
He gain his prince's Mr, or iofe his own.

7> Difpofition to like or dillike

infeft,

Himfelf he on an earuig fet
Yet fcarce he on his back could get.
So oft and high he did curvet. Dr.tyton's Nymphid.
Marivigs and fnails feldom infedt timber.
Mortimer's Hufh.

They being told there was fmall hope of cafe,

Or throw cold water in her face,
Becaufe (he heard a fudden drum,

Pope,

what

Or found an ear^vig in a plum.

is

:

dufts.

imagined to

creep into the ear.

Ariftippus fell at his feet, and then Dionylius grant-

To any thing that founded liberty.

To plow; to till.

The ear being to (land open, becaufe there was

The privilege of being readily and kind-

ed it.

[er».Lat.J

Obfolete

falling

was

religion

about our earu
5.

7fl Ear. 1'. «.

Dryden.
From fcveral giains he had eighty ftalks, with

V Eftrange.

'

Be not alarmed, as

•witn^Jfet, are built upon this principle, fratt't Logick,

Nor bearded nrr in fields, nor fands upon the (hore.

Dutch.]

What fire is io my ean.? Can this be true ?

Hooker,

The hiftories of mankind, written by eye or ear.

Sbakefpeare's A.'l'i v.-ell that endt well,

The leaves on trees not more.

II.

The whole organ of audition or hearing.

1.

part which

the figure of an ear of wheat, which they ever after
wear.
Bacon,

FaWfdx.
;

that

He delivereth to e.nch of them a jewel, made in

A

I'orasan eagr-: rides in triumph o'er thettdC}
The tyrant palkons, hope aud fear,
Did in extremes appear,
Andflafti'd upon tile foul with equal force. Dryden.

Svjifl,

particular branch of a common indictment.

contains the feeds.

the

is

ocean; (gzia, in lllandick, is to agitate,
tide fwelling above another
to iiuHe7\
tide, obkrvablc in the river Severn.

EAR. *./. [eape, Saxon

EAR

EAR

haw greit virtues and tffeai in accelcritin?

Swift,

By way of

reproach, a whifperer; a
prying informer.

«heard ; judgment ; opinion ; tafle.
'
He laid his fenfc clofer, and in fewer words, ac-

2.

cording to the Hyle and ear of thefc tiiTici. Denbem,

Ea'rwitnus, »./. [ear and ivitne/t.yOnc
I

I

am a tainted wether of the flock,

Meeted for death

the weakefl kind of fruit
Drops earliejl to the ground, and fo let me. Shakeff.
It is a curiofity to have feN-etal fruits upon tiie
tree ; and the more when fome of them come early,
Bacon's Natural Hifiory,
and fome come late.
Cod made all the world, that he might be worihippcd in fome parts of the world ; and therefore,
in the iitll and moll early times of the church, what
care did he manifcd to have fuch places ertdtcd to
his honour
South,
The nymphs, forfaking ev'ry cave and fpring.
Their early fruit and milk-white turtles bring. Pope,
:

Sickneis is early old age
in our earthly Hate,
fif a

future.

:

it

leaches us diffidence

and iuffirci tu with thoughts
fope.

EAR

EAR

EAR

On* would have thought you had been half in tarne/t.

3. Different modification of terrene matter.

Oh foul of honour!

Oh «'/> htroe

Addi/oTi.

Smith's Ph^dra and IVipptliiUi.

!

2.

Ea'^ly. adv. [fro n the adjetflive. j Soon;

;

betimes.

that which is to come.

by ia(lilUng etrly into their mindi religion, virtue, and
honour.
Addtfon.

3.

honour great

Ea'rnkstlt. fl^'-j. [from r«r»j/?.]
1
Warmly ; afFeftionately ; rcaloufly ; im-

From what contummate virtue I have chofe
This pcrfe^ man, by merit call'd ray Son,

portunately ; intenfely.

to

irr^defires.

Locke.
The poems gained the plagiary wealth, while the
author hardly tamed his bread by repeating them.
Poft qh Htmtr.
After (oiling twenty dayt.
To earn a ftock of pence and prailV,

all-merciful and almighty Cod.

2.

\\ does abhor me, now 1 fpeak the word
To do the z&, that might th' addition earn,
Ko( the world's mafs of vanity could make me.

1 . Ardent in any aiffedion ; warm ; zealous

\

I .

yet this the

Serioufnefs ; a ferious event, not a jeft ;
reality, not a feigned appearance.
Take heed that this jeft do not one day t«m to
I

(lighter foundation tefupport it.

their pieces, tbey oflea did

A

Hres oft are good on barren eur/hei made,
With crackling flames to burn ific Hubble blade.
May'4 yirg.

The element diftinft from air,

begg'd in jefV.

Shaltrj.
!

Th«ugh thrcat'ning, will in earatft To delhoy
Milton.
But the imain ^ulinefs and tarnefi of the world is
power.
money, dominion ar)d
L'EJIran^e.
We Ihall die in earnifi, and it will not becon.r
Us, hit prime creatures.

i^ovtmment t,f the ^tongue.
U5 to live in jet).
SMRprooius, you have aAed UJuyeuiMf j

or

The terraqueous globe

; the world.
Nought fo vile that on the earth doth live.

2.

Evelyn 's Calendar.

Ta Earth. a>. n.

To retire under grour\d.

Hence foxes ttrth'd, and wolves abhorr'd the <)ay.

And hungry churls enfnar'd the nightly prey. Ticktl.

Ea'rthboARD.w./. \earth&viiS.board.'\ The

EA'RTflB<»RN. adj, {earth tnA b«rn.y'-(i
T
I. Born of the earth; terrigenotis.
The wounds 1 make but fow new enemies;
Which from their Hood, like earthhont brethrea
DrydcK.

Who flew the tarthhorn race and mealures right
To heav'n's great habitants!

Prior,

Earthborn Lycon Ihall afcend the throne.

Ea'rthbound.

[earth

adj,

But to the earth fome fpecial good doth give. Shaief.
This folid globe we live upon is called the earth;
which word, taken in a more limited fenfe, fignifies
fuch parts of this globe as are capable, being cxpoled to the air, to give rooting and nourifhment
to flaau, f« (bat they may lUnd lad grow in it.

LKkt.

Smith.

and bound.\

Fartened by the prctfure of the earth.

Whocan imprefs the foreli, bid the tree
Uniix hit tarthbound root ?

Shake/ftare't Math,

Ea'rthen. ai/^; [from eeirth.'\
earth; made of clay.

Made of

About his inelves
Green earthen pots, bladders, and mufty feeds

Were thinly fcattcr'd.
Shaltrffeart.
As aruftick wasdigging the ground by Padua, he
found an um, or earthen pot, in which there wa«
another urn, and in this lelfer a lamp clearly burnIng.

fire,

water ; foil ; terrene matier.
The fmiling god is I'een ; while water, earth.
And airartell his bounty.
Ilumjon.

Ifath tum'd mf feigned praytr on my head.
1

Dryien.

Eassh. h. f. [from tar, to plow.]
plowed ield. Not now in ufe.

Fairy ^lueen.

Nor can I think that God, Creator wile

them more harm than

good.

That high AU-feer, which I dallied with,

And giv'n \nearnefi^ what

Atieriury.

3. Solitude; oare; intenfenefs.
With overfiraining, and earnifintfs of iinMhing

Therewith Ihc laugh'd, and did her earntfl end
injci>.

Solemnity; real; ferionfnefs.
There never was a charge maintained with fuch
a Ihew of gravity and earnrfine/j, which had a

1

riculas which thefroltmay have uncovered.

Tife.

EARTH, n.f. [#op«, Saxon.]

Vf\toe.irneJi found whalthey accounted play. Sidney.

Drydcn' s Sfanljh Fryat.

To cover with earth.

2,

The God for ever gnat, for ever king.

Addifrm't Cato.
2.

Sid.

told youVlaiuswas tTic haplcfs wight^

riers in after him.

'

And tremble at his veheancnce of temper.

Sonne fay in earit-

tarnrji.

man may doubt, that, bcfids the very

£

Their ejrnrjl ejcs they fix'd imagining,
for one forbidden tree, a multitude
Now ris'n, t* work them (urther woe or Diame.

To hide in earth.

1.

The plow reckoned the mo(t proper for ftiff
black clays, is one that is long, large, and broad,
with a deep head ai>d a fquare earthboard, fo as t«
turn op a great furrow.
Mortimer,

a

Marcus is overwarm; his fbnd complaints
Have fo much earnrfinefs and paflion in themi
I hear him with a tecret kind of horror,

whole, have

.

He begg'd of me to (leal it.

daring and tarnefine/i, and perfiKing and importuthere Ihould be fome fecrct binding, and
lloopiiig of other men's fpirits to fuch ixrfons.
aeon* I Natural Hifiory.

On that profpecTftrange

partakers of the

luffer.

To Earth, f a. [from the noun.
J

board of the plow that (hakes off the

nity,

2. Intent ; fixed ; eaeer.

kngth of divine femice, opsortunity for accefs unto
Hooker.
foaw reafonable pan thcreot.
Ea'rnest. n.J, [from the adjeAive.J

Such land as ye break up for barley to fow.

Two earths, at the IcalV, ere ye fow it beflow.

earth.

ef}i:£)s, as

Hoeitr.

of turning up the ground ia
[from <«>-, to plow.]

More than, indeed belong'd to luch a trifle.
Shakrffeart't Othello.
Audacity and conHdeiKe doth in bufinefs fo great

iBjp<ntunate.
He which prayeth in due fort, is thereby made
the more attentive to hear; and he which hearcth,
the more eamrjl to pray for the time which we be-

hinder from

tillage,

Earth up with frelh mould the roots of thofe au-

tuofity.
Often with a folemn earnefinifi.

EA'RNEST. atlj. [eonnci-t, Saxon.]

fceing

Sbakefpeare.

]

whom larnrfi lets do often

In ten fet battles have wc driven back
Thofe heathen Saxons, and rcgain'd our earth,
As earth recovers from the ebbing tide.
Dryderr.

'

The fox is rarthtd; but I Ihall fend my two tar.

Eagemefs ; warmth ; vehemence ; impc-

1

Shaktffeare^

'fhey

Smalridge.

My (bul, mott earnefily releas'd.

can't fay whore •(

Milton.

The whole earth was of onc.ianguage. Gen. n't. i.
6. Countr}' ; diflinft region.

Eagerly ; deliroully.

Will outftripher's; as bullets flown before,
A latter bullet may o'eroke, the powder being more.
Donne.
Ea'rnistness. n.f. [from Mrw^/?.

Svnjr.

The inhabitants of the earth.

5.

Why fo earnefity feek you to put up that letter ?

3, Toobtaifi, as a confequence of a^on.

3. Serious; important.
ejl, not mjfji.

South.

Earnefily invoke the goodnefs and power of an

aJmoll all their {'dr/r//ij^/.

Ther are never mere tan^ to dillurh us, than
^hen they fee us m*ft earnefi in this duty. Ou^fj.

As I can of thofe mylteries which heav'n
Will not have earth to know. Shakt/f. Corlolamti.

Such proof, conclude they then beg«i to fail.
Mil.
Shame is a banilhment «f him from the good
opinion of the world, which every man moft ear.

This is the great expence of the poor, that takes

ftow, as well in the one as the other*

And yet are on't ?
Shakeffcare's Macielb.
They can judge as litly of his worth.

7. 'The aft

When earnrfily they feek
Milton.

kefp theai,cvcn although they e>ir»ri/ nothing.
Grauftt*t BilU of Mortality.

I

Sbakeff.

Pay back the earnefi penny received from Satan,
and fling away his (in.
Decay of Piety.

Men maydifcerm

Thy labonr'i grown the critick's prey.

That look not like th' inhabitants o' th' earth,

given in token

Receiv'd the golden tarnefi of our death.

By fuffering, and tarn relt from labour won. Miltan.

Up

The money which is

coffers

;

were better for the ftate

world oppofed to other fcenes of

What are thefe.

You have cunfpir'd againttour perfon,
with an enemy proclaim'd, and from his

My ohvious breaft arming to overcome

it

his

So wither'd, and fo wild in their attire.

Join'd

to the evil turn

Since they all beg,

'i

exiftence.

that a bargain is ratified.

fubje^ to eavy ; for men think tliat
Bacon*3 EJfayi,
they earn their honours hardly.
Winning cheap the high repute,
Which he through hazard huge mud larn. Milton.

T*'arn falvation for (he fons of men.

fFoodtiard.

_

Smalridge.
mercies rec<:ived, great as they are, were
earnefis and pledges of greater.
Attethury.

perils, are lefs

1

fire.

4.

The

To gain as the reward or wages of labour, or any performance.
their

luble in water; not difpofed to burn, flame, or take

quiet and tranquillity.

To Eark. V. a. [eapnian, Saxon.]

Thofe that have joined with

Hill's Mat. Mediea.

Earths vrt opiTae, infipid, and, when dried, fri.
able, or conlifting of parts eafy to feparatc, and f»-

Hooker.

Which leader (hall the doubtful vi^'ry blefs.
And give an tarnefi of the war's fuccefs.
Walltr.
It may be looked upon as a pledge and tarnefi of

Wallir,

The princefs malces her ilfue liiie herfelf,

I.

The five genera of earth} are, i. Boles. S. Clayi.
3. Marls. 4. Ochres, j. Tripelas.

;

fomething of the fame kind in futurity
The apolrles term it the handfel or eamrji of

Early before the mom, with crimfon ray.
The windows of bright hcJv'n opened had. Sfenfer.

None in more languages can (how
Thofe irU, which you fo rarly know.

In this fenfe it has a plural.

[Erm'/z, fenge, Dani(h; a»r«, French.]
Pledge ; handfel firft fruits
token of

IVilkins,

TTie mod brittle water-carriage was ufcd among
Egyptians, who, as Stiabo faith, would fail
foinctime« in (he boats made oi ear then ware.
Arhttthnot on Coin%.
the

[earth and _fia.x.]
A
kind of fibrous foflil.
Of Englifli talc, the coarfcr fort is called plnifter,

Ea'rthfIAX, n.f.
or

parget;

the liuci,

raiihfiax,

hair,

Ea'rthiness.
taining earth

or falamander't

ll'oodward.

». /.
;

The quality of con-

groffnefs.

EA'RTHLtNe. «. /. [from ttrth,] An iiv
habtURt
4 N a

EAR

E A S
iL'crm', and

itshnant of the earth'; a mortal; a poor

To c*rMi'.g', the footftool of Cod, thai ftage
wliich he aiki lor * fmall time, Cctmeth magni-

A mean fordid wretch.

2.

ccafe
Thy vain coatetnpt,'dull iarlbworm,
''

I

3iit I remember now

Shakrfp.

fleep,

and eafe pain, he doth not determine their

doles.

ArbutfmX,

matter, light in comparifon of the
matter.

Conipofeijl or partaking

2.

Our common necefTities, and the lack which we
have as wdl ol ghoftly aoiyartblj fatour?, is'
Htokir.

You have fcarce time

.

Charm'4 thc,fmall-pox, orchas'd old-age away,

nnt ; a root in Ihape and fize like a nut.

When

there

are

earthnuls in

feveral patches,

4hqHgh the rqots lie deep in the ground, and

'

.

"

the

Give yourfelvcs eaji from the fatigue of waiting.

Thefe tumults were like an tartkfuake, fhaking
which nothing in
i^'tg Charles.
the world haih more of horrour.

S'wffi.

4. Facility ; not difficulty.
The willing metal will obey' thy hand,
Following with eafe^ if favour'dby thy fate,
Tli()u art foredoom'd to view the Stjgian ftate
If not, no labourcaQ the tree conllratn.
And (Irength of Itubborn arms and fteel are vain.

Was it his youth, his valour, or fuccefs,
Thefe might perhaps be found in other men':
*'l"was that rcjjeiS, that awful homage paid me
That fearful love which trembled in his eyes,
with a Client earlb^uaic Ikook his foul. Dryjrn.

The countr)', by rcafon of its vaft caverns and
fubterraneous fires, has been miferably torn by
earlbjuates, fo that the whole face of it is quite
Addtjon vt Italy.
changed.

,.

,

Orydi'n.

,

freedom from

5. tlnconftraint ;

and y^oif .j

liarfhnefs,

formality, forced behaviour, or coftceits.
True eafe in writing comes from art, not chance;
Xi thofe move caficft who have learn'd to dance.

Having power to (hake the earth, or to

'

^

•

'

.

raifeeartnauakes.

6.

By the eartbjhaking^ Neptune's mace,
And Tclhys grave majellick pace.

At JEa'se.

Pope.

In i ftate of undillurbed

leifure; without paiii; without anxiety.

Milton.
Now fcartx witbdiawa the fierce tarlbjhaking
pow'r,
Jove's daughter Palla! watch'd the fav'ring hour;
JJack to thei/ caves iViade the winds to fiy,
And hulh'd the blulVring brethren of the rtty. Pofe.

I.ucan content with praife, may lie at eafe.
.

,

E*'rthwoRM. »./. [earth znA luorm.]
1, A worm bred undox ground.

•

K.efl aftet labour ; intermiffion of labour.

"the Tcry foundations of all, than

[earth

Sounds move fwtftly, and

1

3.

(
'

W«ciDi arc found ic fuow csmmooly, lilK tttrth- \

In coflly grotts and marble fajaces. Dryden's'lm.
Mcii of parts and penetration were not idly to
difpute at their ^afe, but were to aA according to

Locke.
the refult of their debates.
No body is under an o'bligation to know every
knowledge
the
thing :
buand Lcience in general is
fmcfs only of thofe who are at cafe aiid leifure. Lccke.
.

To Ease. v. a, [from the noun.]

Without difficulty.
they require

.

a

medium

at great dtftance; but
well difpofed, and their

Bacon's Nal.Hifi,

She alk'd the rcafon of his woe J
She alk'd, but with aii air and mien

That made it eafily forefeen
She fear'd too much to know.
Prior,
2. 'Without pain ; without diflurbance; ia
tranquility.
Is it not to bid defiance to all mankind to con-

demn their univerfal opinions and defigus, if, in-

L'£ftrange.
Is it a fmall crim.e to wound bimfelf by anguilh
of heart, to deprive liimfilf of all the pleaiiives, or
'Temple.
eafeSi or enjoyments of life ?

Wttodtx-ard^ i Natural Hijlory.

§x-

[In law.] A fervice that one neighbour has of another by charter or preprofit;
as a way
fcription, without
through his ground, a link, or fuch like.

tranfiniliiou is eajily tlopped.

That which we call eafeis only an indolency, or

.^putting it into very great commotions ; and making

.

Ea'sily. ad-v. [fromc^/j'.]

a freedom from pain.

_4,the like cBfcrt upon the earth, expanded upon the
Jace pf the abyfs, occafions. that agitation aiid coniculBon which w« call an earthquake

Ea'rthshakino. aiij.

\

1.

And nightly viCons in liis (lumber fecj. Dryd. ASn.
2. Freedom from pain; a neutral ftate between pain and pleafure.

and being pretcrnaturally alTembled in
greater (juautity iato one place, caufes a great' tareand
intumescence of the water of the abyfs,
ti^on

from

Coruoel,

tranquillity;

OaiAcs.

^. afccod,

And

2.

Daibam's Sofhy.

The prieft on ikins of ofT'ringtakes his eafe.

Thfs fubterr!ane.->n heat or 6re being in any part
of thejearth ftopi, by fomc accidental glut or ob,,flruSion ia.the pafl'ages through which it ufed to

relief

.

He has the advantage of a freelodginl, and Tome
other eafementi-,
Stiltft,

To lead it to the wars and to the feas
To make icluflfer.watchings, hunger, cold;
When it might feed with plenty, relt with eafe.

JEa'rthqo AKE. n. f. [earth and quake.]
Tremor or convulConof.the earth.

V

pences.

•

We Ihould not find her half fo brave and bold

Bilks be dead, the fwine will by iheir icent root
Ray.
only where they grow.

'

Quiet; refl; undillurbed
not folicitude.

1.

fupport ;

Afliftance ;

1

So earthy^ as to need'the dullmaterial force

Of eyes, or lips, or checks.

fit for reft.

fpy a bUnck, fulpicious, ihreat'ning doudi

Ere htattaioMs ej/"</i(/ weilcrn bed.
Sbakefp. Henry Yl.

Nor is my flame

A pig- EASE. n.J. [alje, French.]

Quiet j

That will encounter with our glorious fan.

'

Lay open to my earthy grofs conceit,

" Who would not fcorn whathoufewife's cares produce?!
Or who would learn one «i-M/y thing of ufe ? P.ope.'

Ea'rthnut. «./. [earth axidi nut.']

I

and full.]

[eafe

Ea'sement. 71. f. [itom eafe.]

Smother'd in errors, feeble, fliallow, weak.
The folded jueaniog of your words deceit. Sbakefp.

if to dance all night, and drefs all day,

aJj.

peaceable ;

-

Any thing in the world; a femide hy-

to that pain, and iirfeparable

Litkt,

Ea'sefu'L.

Relating to earth.
Mine is the Ihipwreck, in a watry fign

perbole.

Dryd.

ffaiah, 1.^4.

from it

And in an earthy the dark dungeon thine, ^rydpn.
5. Not mental ; grofs ; not reiined.
Tcach-me, dear creature, how to think and fpeak ;

Pope.

me of mine adverfaries.

of, with a defire equal

^

An earthly lover lurking at her heart.

will eafe

No body feels pain that he wi(faes not to be eafed

'

.

Spenfer,

.J

I

I

4.

With a/'before the thing.

A

ter-

3. Inhabiting the earth ; terreftrial.
Thofe earthy fpirits black and envious are ;
Dryden.
rUcall up otlier Gods of form more fair.

j

t

,

:

If ere night the gatb'ring clouds we fear,
fong will help the beating ftorm to bear;
And that thou may'ft not be too late abroad
Sing, aiid I'll f.i/i' thy flioulderso/'Uiy load.

Subjedled to his fervice angel-wings,
And flaming minillcrs to watch and tend;
Milton's Paradi/e Loft.
Their earthy ^his^t.

Sudden he view'd, in fpite of all her art.

1

of earth;

Sbakefpeare,

3. Corporeal ; not mental.
Great grace that old man to him given had,
Tor Cod he oftpnfaw, from heaven highu
All were his tarlbly eyen both blunt and had.

!

offends

Him lord pronotmc'd, he, O indignity }

Sbakefp, Henry VIW.
It mutt be ofir (blemn bulinefs and endeavour, at
fit feafons, to turn the ilream of our tliou'hts from
Attcrbury.
tartbly towards divine objeiJls.

Oh

common e.irihy
IViodviitrd.

Prjvr.

To relieve frotnl'^botir, or .•Anything that

3.

with

Itered

is

What were it but to make my fotrow greater.

To ileal from fp iritual leifure a brief fpan,

'

Will he for facrificc our forrows My} ?
And can ourlears r^verfe his firai decrees ?

rene.
Tofurvey his dead and eariby'imagc.

To keep youreac/A/y audit.

4.

!

All water, el'pcoially that of raia,

Of dea'th, call'd life.
Belonging only to our prefent ftatt j not'

Slu^hfp.

As if with fpotts my fu$erings I could c£/e> /iryd.
Though he fpeaksoffuch medicines as pttxtite

;

earthy vapours oWivers forts. H^ilktns*s Afatb. Mttg.

fpiritiial.

•

It Ihall be rat'd, if Fiance can yield relief.

Lamps are inflamed by the admilTion of new air,
when the fcpukhres are opened, as wc fee in fat

Milton.

•

i Chton.
Complain, queen M.irgaret, and tell thy grief;

J

Iforr'ts.

And loon lie Richard in an earthy pit

nevtr,
Ilad ripeo'd (hyjuft Toul to dwell with Gad|
Meetlv iliou didit relign this earllilj load

in each kind eafily known.

;

I>ong may'ft thou live in Richard'sfeat to fit.

Sbuktfp. Mjcbctb.\
Accounted dangerous lolly.
When t'aith and lovCi which parted tram thee

all

won't for refuge fiy.

^a'ktvi^. adj. [itom earth.]
1. Confiding of earth.

I'm in iKis e^ibly n-oiU, where to do harm
Is oftenlaudable j to in good, fometime

2.

Help and lafe children the bell ym can ?iuf by
no means bemoan them.
£Me,
2. To afluage ; to mitigate ; to alleviated
^'V'l
llw father made our yoke grievous, now there'•
fore eafe Ihoti lomewhai the grievous I'crTinide.

places.

Drummond.

Ea'rthly. fulj. [from earth]
1. Not heavenly; vile; mean; fordid.

•''

To free from pain.

1.

Bacon's iS'atural Hjhry.
Upon a Ihower, after a droughtf ejrllmmtnH and
landfiiails innumerable come out of their luiking
likewile put forth plants.

frail creiiture,

ficent.

may

therefore it is not unlike that it

•;

ftead of palTuig your life as well

and eajily, you re-

folve to-Jiafs it as ill and as milierable as you can ?

Temfle.
3.

Readily ; without reluftance.
can eajily refign to others the praife of yoilf
Dtyden's Ded. to Stale of Inno.
Not foon provok'd, (he r.{y?/y forgives
much
And
Ihe fuflers, as llie much believes. Prior,
I

illuftrious family.

Ea'stness. 71. f. [from <•«/>.]
1. Freedom from difficulty.

^

'Believe me, friepds, loud tumults are not laid',

,

|

With half the fa/?«^ that they are rais'd.
Ben foTlfon,
Tafinefs and' diffitulty are relative terms, and re.
fome power; and a thing may be diflScult

late to

to a weik man, which yet may be eafy to the l^ne

perfon, when aflfilted with a greater ftrength.

Tilloif.

The fecming eajitiefs of Pindarick verfe has made
but it has not been confidercd.
Dryden.
'You lefta conqucif more than half atchiev'd.

it fpread ;

And forwhofe e.fimfs

I almoftgricv'd.
Dryden,
Thispica, under a colour of Irieildlhip to religion,
invites men to it by the eofineft of the terms, it
•

offers.

Rigers,

_

compliance ; rea^incfsj riot
oppofition ; not reluiSance.

2. Flexibility;

His yielding unto them in one thing might hap.
them in hope, that time would breed the

pily put

like c(^Jincfs of coaddcciului{ tuither uato them

Hooker.
Sine*

AS

JE

eia:^tt

\fct;JNh«e-Ac taSamSoi-'ti^xeft.ui alter and charge,
taws is \o evil, no dsuht but to bear a tolerable'
fare u bettier tbaa to vtal^rt on a dangerous rsinedv.

Led them dircfl.

Tlie inoon,, which performs

WKinfcI*«."

Ea'sy,
'fi

AAftrufe and myftick thoughts you mud eiprefs
'^Itti .gainful care, but fcemingfvyfxj/t;
•

ia^^mJtom

ppin.
I

ra^n I -haw i^^gnti Iwth ,a( gtcat

intercft in that

^ai«p-

,"

:

reft

and

I.

•j.^tetothe/fj/f.

.

.

.

!

'

Tortfie whole fpace that'sin the ty/ant'sgrafp,

PSnts on her kinis b.irbarick, peajl and gold.
».'

/.

[fcap^te,

Haknt.'ill on Vrovidente,

Credit wete not to be loft
B' a brave koight err.intofthepo(V,

palaces.

ThotM/rt rerridioully, his word.

Aidifat on Italy.
_
And fweati his eats ihrougha two inch board.
C^ieti at reft; not h.-4raired; unmoleftJludiirts.
cr n'
ed; fecu re; not anxious.
ToEkr. -v. n.
Thofc that an ta/y in ttieir condifioni «r
their

Saxon

.

[Dutch.]^ The day on which' the Cbriftian

that It mil nouriOi

,,/,

,

»aa Uioutd *re« ail his Hudies rtid endeavours
4t hiakuig himlelfM_^ ,*>w,
and hiip^y hereafter.

,

4.

^hake/f. Romto mud Juliet.

*'& '^ "j?*'^?' ""^PPy »f miferable.
rree from pam.

Pleafure has been the bus'nefsof

/•

_

When tnt M/fr/|r winds or breezes are kept off

By fomehijh mountains from the
Ihe air,

vallies,

whereby

wanHng motron, doth become; eiciedini

•

tj, and wtiliirly parts of Englmd.

foutiier.

Looking towards the Ealh
''*

='>'''*^ <:''".

I'?''',

tafte -or

^

,

J

1

.

DrydtTi.

Thofe move tafteji that, h»s« leam'd to

J"'"*

.-,

,_

l>«iudetneirbolotBli«\es.

•Tbtmfuiu

Lying orbeingtowardj the Eaft.The tajhn, end W»he ide rife
^p \„ precipices.

Coin?

•
:

n'

..p-.^

•

.^SA-

'

'•'

•

;•

whole

/7. preterite /7fr,
op m/; part.
rw, or r/z/f,/
reran, Saxon; Uau, Gothick; f/f-^, Erie.]
'•Jo devour with the month.
,/

,

"Locurts (hall

^¥''.

' —•'•"<' or,wta*ard< as
,,„
ri
w 1.
^"°"'" 1" '">' '^'" '^''y »• nighl
how
•'i'P'tu^
much he :s gone noptliiyjiid or fc^*a.,ra.
'''

^yUd/fm'.
,

,

f.,r

efcaped from' the
which groweth.

the

retinue

h.il,

,,;J

of that whiA is'

(hil

«/ cveVy tree

fruit is to caufc in

all other foils.

'-'fiitc

ToBAT.^;

"^'W in eirtlfr her

^..jLpokiM tqw?rd> lire Eaft,

'

fweitn'efs

E ATtt

.

of

H<,wel,
'

[eaX, Sa.xon.]

a'j;.

difficult.
j

the caters an oblivion

•

A qqrrofive;'

2.

•

even in lier'lefi di^ ''now ttr iesgitade,
"

'

'

Broivn's f'^jjlgarin'oun.
A4 if the- lotnV'grew only here,' the virtdi of'

,

•

',

I

•

lu ^'

Praifc the eafy vigour of aline,

Where- Denham'4 ftiength, and Waller's

3.

A

knave, a raftal, an eater ol broken meats.
Shah.
It the talte of this fruit maketh the
eluert like
gods, why lemai^icU thou a beall J
.,
„

.<•

duK»>,

7/.

The Caribeesand the Cannibals, almoft all, are
MrtM of man's flelh. Aiioi's Deferip of the If-'orld.

.

,

a'stfrk. «;<„ [ftom£fl/«.7

a.

King's Art of Cceitry.
„
^ ^^
E a't E R
/. [from ear. J
1. One that eat.s any thing.

* ree from w-int of more.
They (hould be allowed each of them fuch a rent
as would make them *a^.
Sit//;.
S. Not conftrained; not iliff.

~r

'

,

.Loth to revenge, and tafy to forgive.

drawn from fptingn t^iih an «>,/„ eihord

y.

1 f you all forts of perfons woutd engage,
Suit well your eatables to ev'ry age.

AjIdfjiViCaii,.'

V\\tl and he .ire one ;

-

Anything that maybe

eaten.

'

wifhput

tion.

-

Ea'table. n. J.

7,.

Grau^fi Hilh if Mart at,ty.

r-"!,*^!
taell,

.

That may be

eaten.

"So mercifi/la king did never live,

"iTheS give us a yie\v of the (noft eiSerli,

•

,.

».,< _.'

unhealthlul.

'

n
Keady
; not unwilhng.

,

o.

AddiJ-m's Italy.

Ea'table. aiij. [from eat.'\

Milton

Eafy and good, and bounteous to my wirties..

2. Lving towards the Eail.

3.

A prince's court ca/j too much into the income

ofapoorftate.

cfy hearts.
Too prune to credii hispetiidiousarts.
UryJen's^n
.\ The kioded taiher 1 have ever fo(«id
him,

Cpmine from the parts toward the Eaft.

Prior.

To make way by corrofion.

The plague of fia has even altered his nature, and'
ealeHiato his very elTential?.
South.

DryJcn

With fuch deceits he gain'd their

Ea'sterly. fl<^'. [from£a/2.]
i.^

Since 1 have found the fecret to be great.

4.

Win me into the eafy hearted man,
And hag him into foares.

Sitnfct;

^
A >Ipecies of waterfowl.
Hi

2.

Mlllm
mylife,

Baited with rca&os not unpiaiifibie,

Ihol^ ijwiltul, rich, and fwarming Eajierliw.
•

Care no more to cloath and eat.
Shakeff. Cymt.
But, thanks to my indulgent ftars, I eat.

Complying; unrefiftiog;<:reduIou8.

J.

25.

Thou art paft the tyrant's ftrokc j

Becaule I ftill was e.ify to myfell.
j

He oft in battle Tin^uidied

Loch.

The righteous c.7ff/i to the fatisfying of his foul,
but the belly of the wicked (liall want.' Prov. jtiii.

And every ch.inge of fortune cafy to mc,

another.

he has a demonftrau'oti

P";1i'
3. 'lo be maintained in food.

ive are

SmalriJz'.
*

Might yield them ejfie, habi lation.

•

A native of foii^e country eaftward to

};

iiirta'ni

Bold adventure to difcover wide
That difmal world, if any clime perhaps

of

EAfsTERWNC. »./ [from£n^.]

till

him, he that will not llir' tiH'

.

WepUinly feel whether at Uiis

ViOorlsunbrother-likeheat to.varJj tlie baftei.i
churchci,in the contro«rfy abput Eajltr, foment«d that difference into a fchil'm.
Decay
Piety.

Matt. n.ii.

he infallibly knows the bufinefs he goes about Will
fucceed. Will have little etfe to do but lit ftill and

furreflion.
Didli thou not fallotit wUh a Uylor jbr wearing
his new daitl'ict betote Eafirr f

How is it tiiat he ealclb with publicans and

He.that will not cir

,|,ey
.,.,,

A

church cpmmeraorates'out Saviour's re-

ples.

^'™"5'
^
2. To take food.

•*•

.^•''•''"

U't
,
\^ h'.-, men sre ea/y
in the'rcir.
nre nat.irjUjrenemiesto mnovjttoSi^

/sj^fr,

;

2 S.it». \x. 13,
And when the fcribes and pharifces law him eat
with publicans and tinners, they faid unto his difci-

new

Wjcft xf/jiT and a tnarriage where both meet hai.pv.

Milt,

meals ; to take meals ; to feed.

He did eat continually at the king's table.

A mamageoflove is plcafnnt, a marriage |^^^,
of in.

i

"i'o go to

1 ;

-tW.

mfomiatipns.

\

AKJ the rich Esft to boo(.
Shjhfji. Macbtib.
The gorgepuj liaft, wi(h.richeft bojid,

j;A%Te».

which afterwards they are forced to eat.

lJI

:

^ " J wouH not be the vilTiin that thou thlnkeft

•

This 'is

only ufed of a man's word.
They cannot hold, but burft out thi:rf"e words,

minds, rcfufe often to enter upon pubick
charges or
...
employment.
•'
Keep your thoughts fa/} a«4 free, the otHy
tem]Xr wherein the mind is capable of
receivini;

The regions in the eaftern paiis of the
world.

To fwallow back; to retraft.

3.

<

forwards (Bw^rds die iafi, did
-'•Mow i3o degtre* to the Portugani eaftVar'd- Ahioi.

a.

Sharp's Surgery,

«ri-

'

.,

,

of the (kin in their tendency to cover the wound.

.

3.

'

They counting

withaf

tajy afconts, and planted with variety- of

Saxon i /«/, Erfe.]
The quarter where the fun riics oppo'

TiUotJon.

fibr. s

^

A<v.

:

PAST. ». /[eors,

cllates,

Miltoii,
There aiifes a necclTity of keeping the furfdte
even, either by preffuie or eating medicines, that
the eminence of the flefh may not relift the

i

'"'

JVotcaufing difficulty.
The whole iflind was probably cut into feveral

we enjoy when

eafirtft

\

'^

'Not difficult.'

i.

fecret'curfe upon their

kjiiTtg cares,

...
Hxhr.
How much b it in evesy one's power to make
ttftlitions to hi mfelf, fu<h as.
he miyiceep, is m/v
forertrydnetatry.

•

.

think thf

a

Lydian airs.

^n^. rfrorn-f^T/J."!

jtur.B, ijia^w(ork, though «/).,-yet
weighty, and of great refReJt,

entail

or far out the heait and comfortof it.

The fcrviccof God, in the folemn alRinMy of

^TPor truth iTiines brigjitei^ through the plainei^ dr;fs.
jf:

They

which does either infcnfibly wafte alid Cqnfumeit,

.

Fronj^pVjng hpav'os,,Ka«^defcending I'lgf^f.

LacHi.i

Keft; tranquUlity; eafe.;

But thou, mod fine, mod honour'J, mod renown'd.
Has MC cfiy bcwer up.
Shakeff. Hetir-y IV,

its

r.

formality.
_

To-

1

.

Freedom from conftraint ; n« effort; not

3.

Others lefs fine in carr.u is more precious,
Prel'etviug lif« in med'cine petable

/»?/,„,

mp;ion fwifter
•""" '''run. gtts faJ^vMd-oux'»( his faj-s, ana
.appears wjien the fun isfel.
Braii'it's P'u/K Srr.
.What fnal we do, or where dirtft out. flight }
^El^Jiwa^f^^ it far as I i;ou!d caft my. fight, o
t

loundation of it eiclj- iji Uberaiily, auil an fi]/i/iejfi\
^i
tOjpart with, to "others" wliateVer they 'have or likei

••

Thdu beft ofgnldart worftofgold ;

wards rhe Eaft.

.The (aloft »(ay to fecure,l>ojitfty( is to lay the.
L

'

t-ASTWARD. ^a'l'. [£,j/?and Awars/.]

Hooker.'
Give to him. and lie (hjll but laugh at your aa/f"(fa ; favt his lite, hut, when you have done, look
«to you r own.Hoiiib
'

.

E A'T

Our ling'ring parents, and toih' eajttm^

Eafy ;

not

Aa old word.

i-.'^VJiett eaik abounds, it'sca/i to do amifs.
I

•
-Paity Queen,.
„,,
Wh.itworl:<:notbeauiy,man'srelfiuingniiiid
i

I

,

I

Ueaib to move wiih plaints and I'hcws'of woe.

^i.;,J
j

=•«"'"' '<" "»* n^jiiig'ifor
not accepTtrtg P5l'ypflemus's
tourtefy, ttr(>e the lail thai (hall be
ealcn up.

??'"""'?,'" *"=
'.v"?!r
the firll blow, or far

.HJ^

','^

..

;..

.?

'

^

miM's H'arHiAtb Spain.

*

ar/'w.

Pvftitt the rigln

.^riiiil/HoloiyMtimmu.

Toconfume; to corrode,

'

I

.£

«»y full eatlj uiay wander v.'i^e.
'

a.

EaliU-.

,

'

,, oefaule it is «»xe(l wiilj agrcat -luanlityof friltfc.

•

J^'ki'ijlti

.

[from the adjediive.]
An old word.
.Whi>| hwh iHc world not trv'dj
^p

Even worm\y*dv'«t with bmad,<»lll not
bile,

,

The way was,ftraight and,^/i". /

'aV-h.

,

*

,

1

j

lias, i-jfei}

'

p'TiNc'irou'si. n.f, \eatc and

honfi'.]

A*

houie

'

E B O
vitae,

L'Efirangt.

his dinner.

The edges

Ebri'ety., «. /. \ebrietas, X.atin,] Drunkennefs; intoxication by ftrong'ttquors.

of the roof which overhang the houfe.
Every night he comes

To her unworthincfs: it nothing lleajs us
To chide him from our tavei ; lot he petftfts>

EBRPLLABE.m.f. [French.] A

As if hit life lay on't.
Shairfp. jill'i vitll ibar enJs vitll.
Hi« tears rundovi'n his beardi liWe Winter drops
Shahff. Trnfyrfi.
From tuia of reeds.
If in the beginning of Winter the drop* ot the tava
ofhoufes come'more Aowly down than ihcy ufe, it

£«c»n.

portendeth a hard and frofty Wiiit«r.
Ulher'd wilha (howcr Dill,
When the guft hath blown his till,

an

The difi'olution of gold and filver difagret

the

.Br&^vn' I Vulffir Err our t.

from the mingling together any
and acid liquor; any inteftine
violent motion of the parts of a fluid
occafioned by .the ftruggling of particles
^tincy.
df different-properties.
When aqua fortis, or fpirit of 'vilrioU poured

fea.:

alkalizate

oppofed.to^/JW;.

The dear fun on his wide wat'ry glafs
Caz'd hot, and of the frefti wave largely drewf,
As after thirft whidh made theii flowing iTirink
;

Mihai.

a. .Decline; decay/, waftc.

the -meta

havefinifhed all the war, and L-rought all
things to that low ti6 which you fpeak of.
Spenfer onjrtlaxd.
This tide of man's life, after it once tuineth aod

You

earth's clliptick orbit.

A

theJ>laod in or under (he (kin, (he fkin remaining
whole.
Wifeman.
Laiations are accompanied witli tumour and «•
cbymoKi
IVifiman.

ECCLESIA'STICAL.?*^-. {ucUfiafitcui^
EGCLESIA'STICK. \ Lau] Relating
to the church
1$ difcipline an
iti eccUfiaJiical,

wiU enfue.

ECCE'NTRICAL.
ECCE'NTRICK.

Bufccmtfinti
,Our tbk of life forever takes away.
The greatefl ^ge for poetry was that of Augullus
Carfar, yet painting was then at its loweft tih, and
Piyjtn.
perhaps fciilpture was alfo declining.
Near my apartmentlcthim pris'nerb^,

That I his ho»rly eUi of life may fee.

1.

2.

What Is it he afpires to?
1s if not this ? To (hed the flow remains,
His laft poor eii of blood in your defence.
Addtfon*i Oife.

.

.

Cyclic,

jj^.

Dndcn'ij^n.

teach you how teflow.

Hereditary lloih ioftrufls me.
Stahffi. TrmJ>rJ}^
Bui oh, he e^^' the fmiling waves decay
Halifax
Jor ever lovely ftream, foreverftay!

:

I

,. .

\ebtnus,\M\n.'\
A hard,
heavy, black, valuable wood.

which adtsits a fine glofa.

A perfon dedicated to the niim«

_,

.

t

,

n

teftines.

The body ought to be maintained in its daily excretions by fuch means as arc eceofroiiclt.

and epicycle, orb in orb.

Milton.

Not terminating in the fame point j not
direfted by the fame principle.
Whatfocver affairs pafs luch a man's .hand?, he
crookelh them to his own ends.; which rouli ueeds

})toil^ti<tfitrick CO the ends of his inaiter.
,

Harvey on the Plague,

Echin*'te..

Bacon' t Effort.

Irregular ; anomalous; deviatlag ifroui

dated and conllant methods.
This motion, like othc-rs of (he -times, feem
ueentikk and irregular.
KingCharlei.
A chiii&tt vl iu eeeeitliici virluc, it ibe mote

[from c<-/6;»*-/, Latin,]
BrJftled like an hedge-

"l-at/j.

Echina'tecuS

hog; fet with prickles.
An ecbiitated fyriics in Siape approaches the eebi^
jtaied cryHalline balls.

tfoodwardiat F>£llt.

E'CHJhlU^n.f. [Latin.]
I .

they gird the fphere

/ [s« and xiirf®-'.J

gently purge the belly, fo as to bring away no more tlian the
•natursd excrements lodged in the in-

i'""^'^'"'' L«.]

.'

n. f.

tive.]

ftries of religion.
The ambition of Ihe eeclefiajllclt dcllroyet -the
purity of tlx church.
Burnet' tTlieorr,

«.

H*

.

SviiJU

as

'fame way in orbs concentrick, while comets mo\c all
jnanncr of ways io orbs very eccentrici F
Neivton't Qptickt.

3.

am ftanding water:

D»foi Xochb

7

Swift,

government.

Such medicines

Whence is it ihat plaiiets move all one and ihe

,

H

duty of the

Ecolesia'stick. n.f, [from the adjeo

Eccotro'ticks.

With centrick, and iccea ricA, fcribbl'd o'er.

;.«

%, To decline ; -to decay; -lo waftt;.

to the

Huker.

of cold,

They build, unbuild,. contrive,

St^lfff,
From thence the tide of fortune left their (howcr,
And tbh'd much fafUr than iiy/?»tu'</ before.

murt belong

Arbuthnot on Alimmtt,

Aftronomers, lo lolve the phicnomena, framed to
their conceit ecceniticki and ^icycles, and a wonderBucon.
fi*l engine of orbs.
Thither his c»urfe he bends
Through the calm firmament ; but up atiovm,
MUlon.
iBy centrick or eceenirUk, hard to tell.

To favc appearances

Now it doth turn and eii back to the fea.

it

has a tnie veneration
for the fchemceftablilhed among us of tcckfajdck

may be produced

Beviating from tlie centre.
Not having the fame cetrtre wifh another circle fuch circles were fuppofed hy
the PtolemaiCk-philofophy.

cjppcjfed

lOTfmu.
Though my tide of blood
Halh proudly flow'd in vanity till now,

ecclcfafiical matter or civil ?

A church oi Englandmaii

:

Orjd-

not civil.

;

minirters.

Ke'wton.

?

acid, -an ebullition, with a greater degree

with a perpetuaUiiiJ and

TeEBB.i;. ft. [from the noun.]
To flow back towards.tUe fea.:
I

1

'violent-celd, as well as 'heat,

by this e^yllition; for if fal ammoniack, orany pure
mixed with an

JLalcighUHiftoty.

Harritt

'Ecchy'mosis. rr.f. [tK^vaiturif.'] Lividfpota
or blotches in the Ikin, made by extra*
vafated blood.
^inty^
Ecchymojit may be defined an extra¥afatioo of

is

volatile alkali, diiVolved in water, be

Thus all the treafure of our flowing years.

Htlder,

lind in ecclefajlictil writers.

AJdi/tn tM Jtaiy.

>
£'boky.J

unequally.

heat and ebullition j

filings with a great
not the beat and ebullition
; and does
not.tJieir motion argue, that the acid parts of the
liquor rufh towards the parti of the metal with violence, aiid run forcibly into its pores, 'till they get
between its outmoft particles and the main mafs of

felling ftreamj biK never floweth again.

to the earth,

3. Excuriion from the proper orb.
The duke at his return from his eccenirU-lty, for
fo I account favourites abroad, met no good news.

e&Aed by a violent motion of the paru

Aii4rtnderb;(cX their pargoto the main.

1

By reafon of the 'fun's eccenlrieiiy

and obliquity to the equator, he appears to us to move

tipen filings of iron, dilTolves the

Hither the feas at iHted times. refort.

And fliovethc loaden vcffcls into pori,;
Then with a gentle itk retire again,

E'ren,
E'bon.

\n regari of eceentrieiif, and the epicycle whertin it moveth, the motion of the moon is unequal.

Clergymen, otherwife little fond of obfcure terms,
yet in their fermons are liberal of thofe which they

from ftandiog lake to tripping tti, thatllole
With fofl foot tow'rds the deep.

Deviation from a centre.
The ftatc of having a difFertnt centre
from another ciicle.

1.

2.

fo that

;

arifes

The reflux of the {ide.towards

Well,

Prior,

fPolton.

That 'ftrnggling or effe^i-efceace which

3.

Dutch.J

I'll

That an (StO. mull prefuppofe a caufe.

Ec c s NT R I'c T Y. »./. [frofn eecfiilriei,]

of the earth is the di (lance
•between the focus and the centre of the

mixture there is great eiuliiihn, tiarknefs,
andin the end, aprecipitaiion of a black powder.
Bact".
Uron, in aqua fsrtis, will fall into ebullition with
.noife aiidemication; as alf* a crafTe and fumid exhalation, <uufi:d from (he combat of thefulphur'of
.icon withi the acid aud nitrous fpirits of aquafortis.

infidious

Under our tents I'll phy the eavn dropptr.
To hear if any mean do Ihrink from«ie. Shaitff.
EBB, «. /. [ebb^, epplob, Saxon.; thbe,

I

From nature's conftant or eceentrick laws,
Ihe thoughtful foul thicgenlial inference draws.

4. 'Eccentrkity

in their

iliftener.

jicclineth, ever runnneth

Common and plain, or wond'rous and ablfrufo«

Any inteftine motion.

z.

t>.

windows;

vat ebricty in their inMrinvn,

EftULLi'TiON, n.f. \ebutlo. Lat.^
I. The ad of boiling tip with heat,

common phrafcj to.liften under windows.
EaVesdropj-er, It./- [etrves and dro/>.^ A

J,

DryJvii

Brotim.

Ebrio'si-tt. «. /. [<'iWe/i/<7/, Latin.] Habitual drunkenne(«.
That religion which excufeth Noah in fiirprifal,
tended pcrvetiion.

a, \eavft and Jro/t.]
catch what come* from the eavct; in

under

m ns( «'hotlf

Then from-wbate'er wc can to fenfe produce.

turn.

will neither acquit tbriofity

Mlliom.
With minute drops from off the e*vn.
The icicles hang down from the tavn ofhoufes.

cheCk of

the bridle which a.Korfeman gives a horfe.
by a jerk of one rein, when he refufes to

¥indinjon the ruftling leaves,

Jiftoner

it

exempted from i4s frailties.

I

Bitter almonds, at an antidote againft eirirty, hath
commonLy failed.
'Srori'nU f^fg^ar hrrours,

With mufick of all forts, and fongs compo^'i

To

;

ttaA Image »f human life, becaufe

they do for foft woods.
Moxan 'i flffch, Excrcifrt.
Oft by the winds octinfl the fignal lies,
ErenighfhM'halfroll'd round her <•*()» throne. Gay.

An hungry traveller ftept imo an eaiing houfe for
E.-lVfcS. »./. [epcf-e, Saxon.]

wood be very hard, m thtos, «> lignum
they are to turn
they ufe not tKe fame tools

\{ tli«

•Ireited.

To Ea'vesdrop.

E C H

E C C

where proviuons are fold ready

houfe

z.

A hedgehog.
A fhell fifh fet with prickleiu

[With botanifls.] Tlie priCk'Iy head,
cover of the feed, or top of any plant.
[Inarchiteflure.] A member or orn.i4..
mervt, taking its name from the roughnefsof the carving, refembling the prickJy rind of a chefnut, and not unlike the
thorny ooat of a hetlge-hog.
3.

This ornament is -ufeii by raodern architefls its
cornifhesof thelonick, Cocrmhi.in, and Compofite
orders; and generally fet next to the abacus, being
curved with anchors, dartSi and ovals or eggs.
Harrli,

E'CHO. *./ Ux„; Lat.]
I .

Echo was fuppofed to Tiave been once a
oyraph.

An eclipfe of the moon is when the atmofphere

THe returner repercuflion of any found.

of the earth, between the fun and the moon, hinders
the light of the fun from falling upon and being
reflci^ed by the moon:
if the light of the fun is
kept oft" from the whole body of the moon, it is a
total eclipfe; if from a part only, it is a partial one.

The found, filling great fpaccs in archtd lines,

lacke,

In thefe woods to refound the renowned name of a
Sidney.

cannot be guided ; therefore there hath not been any
means to-nuI« artiticial echoes. Bacan^iSat, Hiji.

3,

2.

5o.E'cHO. -v^n,

is

it

is

placed here with the au-

The management of, a family ;

I.

the go-

vernment of a houfehold.

'

By

I

St.

Paul's economy the heir differs nothing

from a I'crvant, while he is in his minority; fo *
iervant ihould differ nothing from a child in the fub.

;

ftantial part.

Taylor,

;

Particular fums are not laid out to the greateft
advantage in h\% economy ; but arc fometimes fuf.
fered to ru« wafte,. while he is only careful of the
main.
Drydrte.

Sidney.
Praife him to his father

— Let the prince's

'

ftory

Seem to eclipfe, and call a doud on his.

•

•

Dtnham's Sophy.

Dittribation of expence.

|z.

greatnefs, howictver iww eclipfed with.fortune.

At the fattiagAll the church «^oV. Shitie/.Tamhg of the Shrenv.
Through iDckt and. caves tke name of Delia

from its derivation,
no diphthong, in

thorities for different orthography.]

)

to give the repercuflion of

a voice.

oftcrr written,

Englilh,

Shdufp. HenryyX,
to oljfcure..
They had leen tokens of mote than common

To cloud

the
Pope.

ECO'NOMY. »./. [,Uo\,ij„U.] This word

Sandys.

Born tu eclipfe thy life this aflernooB.
3.

Sidney.

ticonomy ; but ce being

Would fccm to all ectipi'd as well as one.
Creech,
To extinguidi ; to put out.
Then here 1 take my leave of thee,, fair fon^.

!

better than

whole eclogue fliouid be lb too.

Now if the earth were flat the darken'd moon
2.

is

It is not fufficient that the l'cate.ices be brief,

To Eclipse, w. a. [from the noun.
1. To darken a luminary.

O

;

What exclaiming praifesBafilius gave this eclogue
any man may guefs, that knows bve

Darknefs ; obfcuration.

Let the *c/;^/i*i/ moon Iicr throne refign.

Shakefpeare.
woods, O- fountains, hillocks, dales and bow'rs
With other «-Aa late I taught your Hiades
Afi'lttft.
To anfwer, and refound tar other fong
To you 1 mourn, nor to-the deaf 1 fing
Popt.
The woods {hall.anfwer,.and the echc rir.g.
'Tis not cnot;^ no harthncfs gives offence;
Pope.
echo
fenfe.
found
muft
to
the
The
Teem an

Blaekmore.

Apaftoral poem,

fpe£lacles to make every thing feem great.

Raleigh's Hift.
Experience we have of the vanity of human glory,
in our fcatterings and eclipfet.
f^'tg Charles,

Sbaiefp.

fsxAovii.]

fo called becaufe Hrgil called his paftorals eclogues.

petual eclipfe of fpiritual liie.

Wilt thou hunt;
Thy hounds (hall mike the welkin anfwer them ,
And fetch thrill ecboej from their hollow earth.

To refound

EfFecSs the various feafons of the year.

E'cLOGUE. »,f.

All the pofterityof our firft parents fuflfered a per-

The found returned.

Babbling echo mocks the hounds.
Replying (hrilly to the well-tun'd horns,
A< it a double huat were heard at once.

I.

Waller,

Atflidts our thoughts the following year.

Echo
gpddcls.

The earth's rotation makes the night and day |
The fun revolving through th' Ecliptick way,

The influence, which we fondly fear,

symph, who pined into a found for love
sf Narciflus,
The plealant myrtfc may teacly th' unfortunatt

%,

E C T

E C L

E C L

.

Frugality ; dilcretion of expence ; laudadable paiiimony.

Let other mufcs write hii profp'rous tate,
I have no other notion o{ economy, ftijn that it ii
Ofconquer'd nations tell, and kings retlor'd;
the parent of liberty and eafc.
S-mift to Bolingi,
But mine fhali fing of his ec'ips'd tfiite.
be founded back.
4. Difpofition of things ; regulation.
2^
Which, like the fun's more wonders doe» afford.
All the divine and infinitely wile -ways of ecanainy
Hark, how the found dilhirb's imperious Rome
Dfyden.
that God could ufe towards a rational creature,
Shakes her proud hilh, and rolls from dome to dome
He defccnded from his Father, and ectiffcd the
oblige
mankind to that courfe of living which is
mitr'd
princes
bear
echoing
Her
the
noife,
glory of his divine Majedy with a veil of ticin.
molt agreeable to our nature.
And, Albion, dread thy wrath and awful voice.
Hamm.
Culamy's Sermons.
Bta. kmore.
j. The difpofition or arrangement of any
dTTgrace.
4.
work.
TffE'cHO. 'V. ai
ftnd back a voice ;
She told the king, that her hulband vneelipfed
In the Creek poets, as in Piautus, we fee the
in Ireland by the no-countenance his majefty had
to retnm what has been ottered.
economy
and. difpofition of poems better ob(erve4(hewed towards him.
Clarendun.
Our fepari:)s do but echo the fame note.
than
m Tetence.
B^n Jthnfon.
Another now hath to himfelf cngrofs'd
Decay of Piety:
If
this
economy muft be obfcrved in the ininuteft"
.Ml pow'r. Hid us ec lip t' J.
With peals oflhoutj ibeTyrians praifcthc long ;
Milton's Par. LoJI.
parts of an epick poem, what foul, though fent inta
Thofe peals are ecb'^'J by the Trojan ihrong.
EcLi'pTiCK. rt.f. [iKAsiTTiKi?..]
great
the world with great advantages of nature, cultiDryden's J^n.
circle of the fphere, fiippofed
vated with the liberal arts and fcienccs, can be fufa
to t)e
One great death deforms the dreary ground ;
ficicnt to inform the body of fo great a work ?
drawn through the middle of the ZoThe ecbo'd woes from diltaol rocks refound. Prior,
Dryden's Dedication to the j^neid*
diack, and making an angle with the
». /. [Fiench.]
Syftem of matter ; diilribution of every
Equinoftial, in the points ot Aries and 6.
Explanation ; the id of clearing up an
thing aftivo or paflive to its proper place..
Libra, of z-?<'. 3;'.. which is the fun's
aifairby verbal expoftulation.
Tlielc the (frainers aid,
greateft declinations
This is by fome
Tht eclaircijfement ended in thedifooveiyof the
That by a conllant feparation made,
informer.
Clurendun.
called -via foils, or the way of the fun,
Tliey may a due economy maintain.
founds -^
Delia each cave loi-echoing rock rebvunds.

Pope,

.

To

!

To

To

A

ECUIRCrSSEMENT^

ECLAT. H.f. [French.] Splendour; (how
•

luftrc.

;

Not Englilh.

Nothing more contributes to the variety, furpriie,
and eclat of Homer's battles, than that artUiciai
manner of gaging his heroes by each other.
Pope' I Ejfay on Homer.
Ecle'ctick. aij, [wAf«7w^] Sclefting ;

chuling at will.
Cicero was of the eclelilck fed, and chofe out of
each fuch ]ipicions as came oearell truth.
H'atti on the Mind.

Ecle'gma. »./. pTxand Aii;k;i<».] A form
of medicine made by the incorporation
of oils with fyrups, and which is to be
taken upon a liquorice ftick..
^tncy,

.

ECU'PSE. ,/./. [?xA..T(r;<.]
I.
An obfcuration of the luminaries

of

place, to which A/»//oa alludes.
Sips of yew,
Silvtr'd in the moon's iclipfe,
Shakeff. Macbeth.
real erlipft

Then fuBer'd.

Milton't Paradife Left.
So though the fun viAorious be,

And froD a dark nl'spfc let free,

Eco.No'miCK.
,.
7
rr
is drawn on the globe:
but ia. the new
'"V- [irom etommy.]
aftronomy the Ecliptick is that path Econo'micai.. f
among the fixed ftars, which the earth 1 . Pertainii^ to the regulation of an houfe-i

appears to defcribe to an eye placed in
the fun, as in Its annual motioir it runs
round the fun from Weft to Eaft. If

hold.
Her quick 'ning power in every living part,
Doth a» a nurfe, or as a mother ferve ;
And doth employ her tccTtomickitv,

you fuppofe this circle to be divided into

And bufy care, her houfehold to prcferve.

twelve equal parts,
twelve frgtn.

they

will,

Davits,
In economical affairs, having propofed the
government of a family, we conlidertlie proper me.ini

be the
Harris

All ftars that have their dUhnce from the Eellptick northwards not more than twenty-thrie degrees
and a half, may, in progrelTion of time, have de-

toetfeait.

ff.-a,„^

frugal.
Some are fo plainly eccnomical^ as even to defire

I.

that the feat be well watered, .and well fwelled.

clination fouthward, and move beyond the equaicr,

l-f'oit'./r'i

Brov-ft's Vulgar Errours.

heaven ; the fun is ech'pfed by the intcrvention of the moon ; the moon by
the in.t«r|X)fTtion of the earth. The word
originally fignifies departure from the

Planeu, planet-ftruck,

Exclude the> noxious pans, the good retain.
Blackmort,

becaufe the fun, in his annual motion,
never deviates from tlus line. This line

/Irchitefl.

The terraqueous globe had the fame tite and peti- Ecehra'cticim. k. /, [?K and «if«Tl«...]
tion, inrcfpefl of the fun, that it now huih
its
Such medicines as render tough humours
axis was not parallel to that of the Ecliptick, but
more
thin, fo as to promote their difinclined i<i like manner as it is at prefent.
:

charge.

kh'ood-ward's Natural Hlftory.

You mud conceive an

Eti.i'pTicK. eiJj,

i^timy.

Procure the blood a froeoourfe, »entilaiion, and.
by fuitable purges and ecphranick
medicines.
Harvey.

imaginary plane, which
pairing through the centre of the fun and the earth,
extends itlcU on .ill hdes as far as the firmament
this plane is called the Ecliftick, and in this the
centre of the earth is j>eij.etuaUy carried, without
any deviation,
Benlley.

tranfpiration,

E'CTASY. ;,./.
I.

Defciibed by the eclip-

•

tick line.

[Uo^tr,,.-]

Anypaflion by -Afhich the thoughts are
abforbed, and in which the mind is for
a time loft;
Follow them fwiftly,

J

Ani

EDD

El 15.1T*

A|)Akini<r 0»em fmia mint this /</jJ5r

May new provoke them to.

'

is,

In lopping and felling, fave eiJJfaal Ihike,
Thine hedges, as needelli, to mend cr to mike.

Sbakeff.

The religious pleafure of a well-difpofed mind

E'ODY.

it does not
:
"affofl by rapture and tcftafy; but is like the pleaSi,iitb.
fure of health, ftill and lohrr.
Each delighted, and delijhiingi gives

main ftreaci.

,

>

This is not

'

Shxktff. Macbeth.

I

So, where our %vide Numidian waftes extend,
Sudden, th* impetuous hurricanes defcend, '
Wheel through the air, in circiiiie; eddies play,

i

This

Now fee that noble and moft fovereign reafon»
Like fwee! bellsjangledouioftune, andharfli,
TTUat unmatch'd form, and feature of blown youtli,
I

E'csTASiED. ndj. [from tcftajy.'\
ed filled with enthufiafm.

Ravilhi

Tltefe are as common to the -inanimate things as
Norrh.
to the mott ccjiajicd foul upon earth.

Ede'ntated.

rapturous; elevated

Edging by degrees their chairs forwards, they
were in a little time gotupclofe to one another.
Loiie,

i

Te Edge. 'v. ti. [perhaps from eb, backward, Saxon.] To move forward a;;ai^pft
any power ; going clofe upon a wind, .is
if upon its l)virts or.border^ and fo failing
flow.

'.

1

We find that fubiile or edged quantities do prevail over blunt onci.

Seize upon Fife ; give to the -edgeo' th' fword
Xbakeff. Macbeth.
His wife, his babes.
He that will a gP9d f(/^f win,
Proverb.
Muft forge thick, and grind thin.
Thcf^^fotwar, like an ill-fhealhed knife,

Ther? doth my foul in holy vifion fit,
In peofive trance, and anguilh, taiecftjilck kt.
Milton.

No more (half cut his m-aftcr.

When one of them, after an ecftalica! manner,

,

1

Sbaie/f.

upon the edging of a petticoat.

E'dceless. eidj. [from edge."] Blunt; obtufe; unable to cut.
To-morrow in the battle think on me.

Soine;hatrow their ground over, and then plow
Mortimer* iliujhandry.
it upon 'an^y^f'-.

!

Addifon's SpeO,

A narrow lace.

2.

A narrow part rifing from a broader.

i.

What is added to any thing by way of
ornament.
The garland « liich I wove for you to wear,
Dryden,
And bordcr'd with a rofy edging round.
A woman branches out into a long differtation

1

Sihiir/f. Cymbciine.

I

Oigby sn Bodies,

E'doinc. //,/. [iromedge,^

•Tis llanJcr,
\Vhofe edS' is^fl^arper than the fwcrd.

fell

Drydeai*s Cleometies,

De- %'ooi.\>. particijiialadj. [from f(s(ff .] Sharp;
Did:
not blunt.

Lat..J

The thin or cutting part of a blade.

tcyond

Pol>c.

\edetita1us,

prived of teeth.

the ufual bounds of nature.

down before an angel, he was feverely rebuked,
SiUlingfiut.
and bidden to woifliip Cod.
In ttinccccflalici may thypangs be drovvn'd\
Bright clouds defcend, and angels watch thee taund.

'/Jia^'.

muft edge upon a point of wind.

And make ilow way.

EDGE. «./, [ecbe, Saxon.]
I.

Ravifhed;

To put forward beyond a line.

J.

i

;

1.

I

'

Aforofity obftrufting the glands may be watery,
edimaloje, and fchitrous, accofdhig to- the'v'tfcolity
Arbuthnat.
ot the hunour,

.

SbakeJ'p. Uaittltt.

Slatted with tcfia/y,

By fuch reafonings the fimple were "tilinde J, and
the malicious edged.
Hay^Lratd.
He was indigent and low in jponey.^whlch per.
hajis mrght have a little r/gferfhisdel^ieratfon.'
,j
Ifoitm's Life ofD. c/BueiE

.

[t!Ciy>)/x.«i.]

rid over

To exafperate; to embitter.

4.

j

Swelling;
full t)f humours ; commonly written ocde-

.

'

Dryiet.
hanging hills, whofe tops were e,/gej
with groves, and wliofo feet were watered wyth
winding rivers.
Pope,
I

Dryd.yirg.

iiDEMA'To'sE. adj.

•

With rubies edg'J, -and I^philet,fwept the' plain.

Whirling ; moving circularly.

fenfe is

to fringe,

;

Their long defcendine train,

,

And chaff with eddy winds is whirl'd around,
And dancing leaves are lifted from the ground.

i

not now in ufe.

Drydtri,

Addifon's Cjto.

'

SLzieff. MacUtb.
,

.'

.

Tear up the funds, and fwcep wliole plains away.

I

!E'd d y . aJj.

Better be with the dead.
Than on the torture of the mind to lie

,

j

man of bearded face,

To border with any thing

'3.

'

Whirlpool; circular motion.
The wild waves mafter'd him, ai:d fuck'd him in,
And fmiling w^rfiVrdimpled ontFie'maio. Dryden.

,2.

1

Sighs and groans»»nd ftirieks thatrend the air.
Are made, not mark'd ; where violent forrow fccms

diftradlion..

I feli'd along a

His limbs all covei'd with a (hining cafe
So wond'rous hard, und'fotecure of wound.
It made my f\\erd, though-ct/gV with flint, rtbbunj",

they link not, 'tis becaufethay arc borne up by the
itrength «f the cut-relit, which fupports their lightncf«i but they arc carried round again, and return
Dry Jen.
<mtht<'</(<ywliere they lirft began.

I
'

,

He lov'd me well, and oft would beg me ling ;
Whicli when I did, he on the lender grafs
Mitloti.
_
AVould fit, andJxarken even to <Ky?i»/>.

In reltlefs rty/^i/y.

Dryicit,

To fumi(h with an edge.

z.

My praifes are as'a bulriirti, upon 4 Itream; if

An

forptioa of the mind

„.

to enable to cut.

To Mge her champion 's f-A-urd, and urge my ruin.

-

.'

aga:»i and

[«;bi baektiuardi

;

There' fat (he rolling her alluring eyes,

The water that- by fome repyercuffion,
or oppoljte wift'd, runi contrary tp the

»,

fri^-.
7^bepl^afing<-iy?«/>' which each rcteivcs,
'- A pleafure, which no langnapcjiifxprffs;
tcjiafy, t(iat mothers only ietl,.
Phir%fff Oijlr^fi MUfAr.
Flaysround my !>eart.
3. Enthufiafm ; exceffive elev:)ti6n and ab-

A modem tcftafy.

v. /.

To ftiarpen

1.

ca, iitUir, Saxon.]

.

4..Exce(rivegrief or anxiety.
noyr ufed.

To Edc b, "k. a. [from the noun. ]

Tujer.

moves gcntW, ami therefore con(fantly

i

'

wood as is commonlv pOt u{>0p tlip top
Not in uCi,
of fences,

Lvtc.

'with our ens open, I leave ti> be examined,

2, Exceffive joy ; rapture.
Olove, be ruodcrate! allay thyrr;^ijA''

Madnefs;

>

E'ddbr. >/.'/. [from theverk}.SiKh fence-

'T may he
Suriling.
Nolongerjoy tliere, butaof<j?j/y.
Whether what we call tcjiajy^ be not dreanvug

5,

Ai htrfii grating tutntf^letb the teeth oneign
Bacon,.

bind the t«p of the tiikes with frttwflhul] toKg
•'
Mtrtlmer's Hu/ia)iiity.

pole«V)n ea»h lid*

Hhaiffp. Temf.-ft.

'

2. R;.ifed to the higheft degree of joy.
To gain Pefcennius one employs his fchemcs
Pope.
One grafps a Cecrops in ccjhiick dreams.

1

to the deriva-

tion.

'

1 find

which

of a precipice, while nothing but the {lender thread
of human life has held Us from finking into endlels
Rogers.
mifcry.
Y?^, the laft pen for fixedom let me draw,
When tnitbiftaads trembling on the ^dge o{ law.
Pope.

in

me

a great

continually carries

deal of ecfiatical

love,

me out to good without

I

'

Norrit.

myfelf.

E'tTYPE. »./. [«««/!r®-..]

The complex ideas of fubllaoces are eSiypei, copict, but not pcrfeft ones ; not adequate.

E'cuRiE. «. /. [French;

;

A copy.
Lock!

eqmisy I.at.]

A

4. Sharpnefs of mind ; proper difpofition
for adion or operation; intenfenefs of
defire.

.

They are edgelefs weapons it hath to encounter.
Dec. of P.

E'dge'tool. »./. [edge AnA. lool.^

'there mult be no playing with things (acred, not
jcfting with tdgtiools.

L'EJiran^e,
Nuifesfronnheir children VeAfedgetools. Dorjrt.
I fliall csercil'e upon ileel, and its feveral forts;

and what fort is litlelt for edgelocls, which for fprings.
'

E'dcewise. adv. [edge and ii.'i/e.'\

». /.

[fJtix,

[eJacifm, Lat.]

But when long time the wretches thoughts refin 'd.

'

When want had fci an eHgi upon their mind,

Voraci-

Creech's

The wolf it a bealf of great eiiacily and digeftion
it may be the paru of him comlort the bo^vels.

Bacorr,

To E'DDER. 'V, a. [probably from

To bind or interweave a fence.

J.

To add ftrength to the hedge, tdJtr it

That svould reduce thefe bloody days again.
Shakefp.Rleb
16.

which

Te/et teeth on

Bbce.

III.

To caufe a ting-

ling uneafinefs in the teeth.

E'oible. adf. [from edo, Latin.]
be eaten fit for food.

Fit to

Some fleih is n6t edible, as horfes and dogs. Baeon.
Wheat and barley, and the like, are made eitlier
edible or potable by man's art and induftry-.

More againji Atbtiftn.
Some of the fungous kind, gathered for cdiUt mulhrooms, have produced a difficulty of breathing.
Arbuibnot,
Prior,
The edillt creation decks the board.

Abate the edge of traitors, gracious Lord !

etlge.']

;

I.

Keennefs; acrimony of temj-)er.

Not in

ufe.

Mam

Silence .uid folitude fet an edge upon the genius,
Dryd. Dufrrfmy.
and caufe a greater application.

;

With

the edge put into any particular direftion.

;

Then various cares their working thoughts employ'd.
And that which each invented, all enjoy'd.

ty ; ravenoufnefs ; greedinefs ; rapacity.

Moxon,

Ray.

Siiikr/p. H.imlel.

adj'

A tool

made (harp to cut.

I

Lat.]
Eating;
voracious; devouring; predatory; ravenous ; rapacious ; greedy.

Eda'city.

'

And drive his purpofe into ihel'e delights.

of horfes.

Eda'cious.

.

Should the flat fide be objefted 10 the dream, it
would be foon turned edge^ife by the force of it.

Give him a further edge,

place covered for the lodging or houfing

\

Sbaiefp.Rich.m,

;

any body, are bent a little by the aftion of the body.
Netvtm's Opiich.
We have, for many years, walked upon the edge

This fenfe
3. Tending to external objefts.
once,
is, I think, only to be found

though agreeable enough

And fall thy edgiUfs fword ; defpair apd die.

;

Brink 'margin extferhity.
The fays which p'afs very near to the tdgei of

3.

E'dict. ». /. [ediaiim, Lat.] A proclamation or command or prohibition :^ a
law promulgated.

When

EFF

E FF
Wfiin in a^jfolute monarch commjnJsJ hii fubjc^s tiiat which leemeih good in his own difcretion,
fcjth not liis tiiil3 tlic force of a law?

The great King c

2.

Hotkir.

Republk'atton ; generally with fome revifal or correfting.
Thefe are of the fecond edition.

cings,

Sbaktff.

The bufinefs of our redcnption is to tub over ilie
defaced copy of the crcation» to reprint God's ima^e
upon the foul, and to fet forth nature in a fecond and
a fairer edition.
South.

Halh in the table of i'.islaw commanded
That thou Hialt do no murder; will you then
Spurn at his fdicfj and fulfil a man's }
Sbuke/p. Rich. lU.
ScTcre decitts may keep our tongues in avve.
But to our thoughts what tiiiSf can give law ? DryJ.
The minilters are always preaching, and the goTernours putting out etiuls, agaiufl gaming and fuie
ctoaths.
Addifin.

cannot go fo far as he who publilhcd the laO: cditivH of him.
Dryden's Fal/Us, Pref.:cc.
The Code, compofed hailily, was forced to undergo an emendation, and to come forth in a fecond
edition.
Baker.

Euifica'tion. n.J. \edificatio,\M.\
r. The aft of building up man in the faith;

E'ditor. n.f. [((///or, Latin.] Publifher;
he that revifes or prepares any work for
publication.

Our bleli'ed Saviour told us, that we muft account

When a different reading gives us a different fenfc,

word, not meaning that every word
not (Jrfigncd for edijicaiion, or lefs prudent} Ihall be
Taylor.
reckoned for a fin.

or a new elegance in an author) the ediror does very
well in taking notice of it.
/Iddif. Spili.
This noiifenfe got into all the editions by a miilake
of the ftage ediitrt.
Pope'i Notes on Shakefp.

for every idle

Iroproremcnt ;

inftrutflion.

Out of ihefe magazines I fhall fupply the town
with what may tend to their edljiciition.

LiOcke.

We fee the pernicious (^i57j of luxury in the anRomans, who immediately found themfelvcs
poor as foon as this vice got tooting among them.

cient

Addifm ctt Italy,

H^^oker.

All nations have agreed in the necelfity of a (Iritl
tduealion, which confided in the Obfervance of moral

proves or inftrufts another.

To EDIKY'. V. a. \edifco, Lat.]

duties.

Men ha« edify'

its beds of earth,

A lofty temple, and perfum'dan altar to thy name.
to in>proTe.
He who fpeakeih no more than edifietb^

4.

is

unde-

iUcker.

Men ate edified^ when cither their underOanding
taught fomewhat whereof, in fuch adlions, it
bchoveth all n^cn to conlidcr, or when their hearts
are moved with any affeflion fuitable thereunto.
Hooker,
Life it IM life, without the UcICng of a friendly
an edifying converfation
h 'Eflrange.
He g;ive, he taught ; and edify* d the more,
Becaufc he Ihew'd, by prooff 'twas eafy to be poor.
is

nd

.

bryde„.
is

To EDU'LCORATE.

might not, by the law ot nature, have been fubdued
by any nation that had only policy and moral virtue.
Bacon' z Holy IVar,

Pfpe.

6.

2.

And full atchicvement of thy gicat defigns.
Reality; not mere appearance.

do all in all.
Hucken
State and wealth, the bufincfs and the crowd.
Seems at this diftance but a darker cloud ;
And is to him, who rightly things elleemS)

No other in effe£l than what it feems.

To make bigger by the addition of anTo fupply any deficiency.

See Eke.

Prisr.

In (hew, a marvellous indifferently compofed fe*
natc ecclefiaftical was to govern, but in tffe& one
only man (liould) as the fpirit and foul of the reliilue.

ican. Sax, eai,

otlierpicce.

now

either obfolete or ludicrous.
You (hall hardly edfy me, that thofe nitioni

a title,

numbers of criminals.
Templi',
Completion j perfeftion.
Not fo worthily to be brought to heroical rffeSJhy
fortune or neccflity, like Uly&s and iEnea>, as by
one's own choice and working.
Sidney,
Semblant art (ball catve the lair cffcfl.

Scott, eck, Erfe.]
1

depart only with

J.

a.

To Eek. -v. a, [eacan, ccan,

fuccefs ; advan*

The inftitution has hitherto proved without f^ic7|
and has neither extinguiihcd crimes, nur IciVened the

[from dtthis,
Latin.] To fwectcn. A chymical term.
Edulcora'tion. n, f, [ftom edulcorate,]
The adl of fweetening.
or.

;

Gal.i 4,
the cffrti
before
whereof he (liould not be pofliiiUd of,
he defcivcd it.
Vlareridun.

He Ihould

H^oodiv.

Eotj'cTisN. n, f. ffrom edure.] The ad
of bringing any thing into view.

ConfequenCe intended

thrift is become of nof^fluntoyou.

were there not this agent to educe it

Crafts on this pafTion our bell principle.

laults

tage.

Th" eternal irf e</aff J good from ill.

;

fervcdly repichendcd for much fpcaking.

lain eternally confined to

thence.

Chapm.

This

3.

clan^ille.

This matter muft have

there aie

M^effelf, to fay that tlie author of

it is a
Addifon.
Purpoft; meaning; general intent.
They fpakc to her to that rffe£l.
2 Cbron.

is,

It,

man.

S^ift.

the power of the pocket.

Sftnfer.

Bacon's Natural HiJior\,

To fay of a celebrated piece that
in

That 'the world was r^ji/r**^/ out of the power of
fp'cc, give that as a reafon of its original 1 in this
language, to grow rich, were to /t/urr monev out of

There was a holy chapel edify' J,
Wherein the hermit wont to lay
His holy tilings each morn and erenlide.

to perfuade.

voice, or faihlon.

To EDU'CE. f. a. [tduco. Latin.] To bring
out ; to extraft ; to produce from a ftate
of occultation.

To build.

Confequence; event.
No man, in effeS, doth accompany with othert,

2.

but he icarnctlr, ere he is aware, iome gcllure, or

mote

Edifi'er, ?/./. [from edifj-.'l One that im-

To teach;

Flffr3 is the fubilancc produced, or fimple idcJi
introduced into any fubjedl, by the cxerting.of power*

nurture*

Add'ifon on it.tly.
that cannot dilcem

woikmanthip in the ftru^ure of an animal
Beiilley.
than in the moft elegant edifice.

J.

You may fee by her example, -in herfflf wife,
and ofolhers belovej, that neither folly is the caufe
ot vehement love, nor reproach the cffcB,
Sidney.

Education and inllruflion are the means, the one
by ufe, the other by precept, to make our natural
faculty of txal'on both the better and the fooner to
judge rightly between trutli and error, good and evil.

flrokes of

To inftruft

caufe.

;

breeding youth ;

fictt raifed in Tofcany.

%.

That which is produced by an o})eratinfr

1

worft educated mortal fince the creation.

Educa'tion.*./. [from educate.] Formation of manners in youth
the manner of

Pop^

Nor our admiftion (htill your realm dllgiace.
Nor length of time ourgratitude efface. Dry'd./En,
Effe'cT, n.f, \cgeilus, Latin.]

Stvift on Modern Education.

That man may know he dwells not in his own
Mlliin.
An edljice too large for him to till.
ThKfdl^ce, where all were met to fee him.
Upon their heads and on his own he puli'd. Miiton.
,^s Tufcan pillan owe their original to this country', the architeSs always gi<t them a place in (://-

Prior.

And fluent Shakefpearc fcarce tffuc'd a line.
3. To deftroy ; to wear away.

lonarch, the heir of that monarch would be the

Cod built
So fpacious, and his line ftretch'd out fo' far,

1..

Time, I faid, may happily efface.
That cruel image of the king's difgrace.
Otway fail'd to polilh orretine.

Education is worfe, in proportion to the grandeur
of the parents : if the whole world were under one

I

idiot

l^cke,
1 1 was ordered, that his name (hould be effaced out
of all pubiickregillers.
Addifon on Italy.

Theiryoung fucccfllon all theircares employ.

takicj the place where I ereflcd it.
Shaktff. Meriy fflvti of IViitdfcr.

be an

Chai-aders on duil, the firft breath of wind eficett.

They breed, they brood, inftnifl and educate.
And make provilion for the future (late. Dryd. I'irg.

M) love was like a fair houfe built oB another
man's ground ; fo that hive \o\\ my tdljice by mif-

ExDiSt

Latin.]

[effabills,

utteraWe.

blot out ; to ftrike out.

breed ; to bring up ; to inftrucl youth,

IS'dipici. It,/, {^iificium, Lat.] A fabrick;
a building ; a (Iruclure.

adj.

To EfFa'ce. -v. a, [cffacer, Frerxh.]
1. To deftroy any thing painted, or catted.
2. To m.ikc no inore legible or vifiblt; ta

ToE'DUCATE. -v. a. [educo, Latin.] To

Addi/on's Citafdtart,

He muft

prcflive ;

1

improvement in holinefs.

2.

E'ffabl^.

7.

[In the plural.]

Goods;

Denharlt.

mo\'eablesw

What form of prayer
Can ferve my turn ? Forgive me my foul murtherj
That cannot be, fince I am (till poflirft

Hence cndlefs penance for our fault I pay

Of thofe effrSii for which I did the murther,

But that redoubled crime, witli vengeance new,

My crown, mine own ambition) and my queen.

Thou biddeft me to eke.

Eel. n.f,

[ccl,

Saxon

Shakff^,

Fairy S^ueen,
;

W, German.] A

The emperor kniw that they
away many of their effeSif.

could not convey
Addifi/n'i Spitl.

E'dm.e, n.f. [W/7;'/,I^itin ] The title of a
ferpcntine (limy fi(h, that lurks in mud.
To Eff^'ct. [1;. n. [c^f/o, Latini]
magiftrate in old Rome, whofe office
Is the adder better than the eri,
1. To bring to pafs ( to attempt with fucBecaufc
his painted (kin contenir. the eye ? Sbakeff.
feems in fome particulars to have reto atchieve; to accomplilh as an
The Cockney put the eelt V th' pafty alive.
ccfs
fembled that of our joftices of peace.
Shakefpeare,
agent.
The edilr, ho let him be apprehended. Sbakeff.
E'en. -ad-v.
Contrafted from tven. See
Being confuH I doubt not t' effiSJ
EDI'TION. n.f. [ediiio. Utin.]
B^nfonfon,
All that you wi(h.
Even,
I. Publicationof any thing, particularly of
Says the fatyr, if you have a trick of blowing hot 2. To produce aS a i:aufe.
and cold out of the fame mouth,
The change made of that fyiup into a purple colour,
a book.
have e'm done
Boyle on Colours,
with you.
L'Ejhange.
w»i cffiflcd by the vinegar.
This Eo^rifh edition a not fo propeily a tranflaEff. n.f. Commonly written Eft, A fmall E f F I 'c T B L E adj. [ fro m effeff, ] Perform,
tt*n,
i»n, as a new compofiuos upon the ume ground.
;

I

1

1

Burnet.

Vol. I,

lizard.

.

able; prafticablc; fcniiblr^

4 U

That

E F F

E F F
nateffratUevf-

the flnj of wantonnefi, foftnefr, anjl fffemimtcy
Taylor.
nre pre«nted.

Biown's ful^. Brr.

EFFE'MINATE. adj. \effemina1u!, Latin.]

Th»t» |K>t fiai of alhe» w'tll ftiU eonttin ta much
water

u

it

would wiihoui ihsm,

on (he ftriaeft expefimcnt.

is

EprE'cTlVE. aJj, [from effeiH.]
power to produce
I.. Having the

Tdj/sr.

TRere is nothing in words and ftiles butfuitablcneft, ihat makes them acceptable and effeClivt.
CUmiilU.

Operative ; aftive ; having the quality of

producing effetf^s.
Nor do they fpeak properly who fay that time confumeth all things J for time is not cji^ii-c, not are
Brown's I'ulgar Err.
bodies deftroyed by it.

Producing effefts;

efficient,

Whofoever is an effcclive real caufe of doing his
neighbour wrong is criminal, by what inftrument
Taylor.

foever he does it.

Having the qualities of a woman; wounmanly degree ; vo-

1.

elfe.

3.

,

manifii ; foft to an

effcfts j

efficacious ; effeftual : with of.
The; v^ "•>* tffcSiive of anything, nor leave Bo
Haran.
work behind them.
If apymjfttry, rite, or facrament, be effrCliwoi
anyfpiriiualbleltin^s, then this much more, as havint; the prerogative and principality above every thing

2.

all

of perfons.
The king, by his voluptuous life and mean mar-

luptuous ; tender; luxurious

riage, became rffeminaie, and lefs fcniible of honour.

Bacon.
2.

;

After the (laughter of lo many peers.

as, fffe^i've men in

an army<
[from effeakie.']
adv.
Powerfully; with real operation.

Effe'ctitely.

This (ffeanely refifti the devil, and fufiers us to

The
DryJ.
The more his fame to llrugjle to the field.
A
foft without reproach.
Womanlike
;
J.
fenfe not in ufe.
As well we know your tendernefs of heart.
Shakrfp.
And gentle, kind, effem'matf remorfe.

^-A]

Without
eficft; impotent; ufelefs; unmeaning.
I'll chop off my hands;
[trom

In bootlefi prayer have they been held up.
And they have ferv'd me to tffeSilrft ufe.
1.

He that produces any effeft; performer.

2.

Maker;

Creator.

^'''"•

faflion.

To Effe'minatb. v.

To grow wo-

».

manilh; to foften; to melt into weaknefs.

In a (lothful peace both courage will effeminate mi
Pofe.
manners corrupt.

Effemina'tfon.

«./.

[from

efficacious.

will efferiefce even to a flame.

;

A fenfe

der it ;
Sliahrfp.

efficacioufly.
altar,

put it into llroog fpirit of nine, till it bei;<imes
and makes no iffa-.icfcince upon the iii-

CTanvilti,
Ihould be, is not eafily determined.
Sianing againft confciencc has no fpecial produc-

Raybarren and ^effete.
In moll countries the eaith would be fo parched
but
would
aftoii
it
drought,
tliat
by
tin:
and effete
Bcntlcy.
one harvcll.

Siiinty.

Effe'mi.iiaCV. It./, \irom eff'tmi/inte,']
1. Adinilfion of the qualities of a woman,
fofmefs ; unmanly delicacy; mean fubmiffion.
But toul rfftminary held me yok'd
lUr bond rt.ive: O indifnity, O Wot
Mi'lon'i Agonificu
To honour and religion
2. Lafcivjo'jfncfs; loofe plcafure.
&o long as idlenefais (joitcihut out from out\ivcs.

z.

A

hiilory

the

means to enlighten the under-

contingent and unliable agents ; being e»tirely owing
to the dire£l concourfe of the power of the Author of
kHodiiard.
nature,

Effi'cient. «./. [(#i-w, Latin.]
1. The caufe which makes effeds to be what
they are.
God, which

moveih meer natural agents as an

doth otherwife move intelleflual creaHooker,
tures, and efpecially his angels.
that makes ; the effeftor.
2.
efficient only,

He

Obfervations of the order of nature carry the rniod

up to the admiration of the great e^r/Vnr of the world.
Hale.

Effi'cient. ad/. Caufing effeds ;
makes the efFed to be what it is.
Your anfi"<ring

that

makes me be-

in the final caufe,

lieve you arc at a lofs for the effi.irnt.

Collier on Ttoifgbt.
<7.
;

!>

L-M\n.'\

[effigio,

to image.

Ef riGi a'tion. It./, [frovacffigiate.'] The
ad of imaging; or forming the refcmDi3.
blancc of things or perfons.
Effi'gies. "I ?/./. {ej/igics, Latin; effigy is
from being in r^^^^.] RcE'ffigy. J
image in painting or fculpfemblance

)"

ture ;

01

We

EFFICA'CIOUS. fl<^'. \efficax,\M\Vi.'\ Produftive of cfFcfts ; powerful
the confequcnce intended.

Obferve thofe numerous wrongs in effigy.

to produce

The gods have fav'd from the devouring lea.

EfFLORe'sCENCF. 7
EfFLORE SCENCV. S

^.

A glowing drop with hollow'd llecl
He takes, and, by oi.e effeacious brcail).
Pliilijii.

Dilates to cube or fquare.

in fuch a manner as to pro-

rem
J

r

J

\.M

Garth.
T

.•

•

1
J

Produdion of flowers.

I.

Where there is lefs heat, there the fpirit of the
plant is digcfled, and levered from the gfulVerjuiie in

[from efficaciotts.\

duce the confequcnce dcfircd.

rcprefentation; idea.

behold the fpecies of cloijuence in our minds,
the effigies or aflual image of wliich we fcek in the
DtyJen's Diifrejnoy, Pref,
organs of our hearing.

his

South.

former lilc.

Effertually ;

is

ftanding in the truth of ChriHianity, upon the account
of a natural efficiency 1 a will fo difpofed, will engage
Souib.
the mind in a fevere fcarch.
Gravity does not proceed from the efficiency oi any

now, is to rcfrcfh his

decrepit, effde fcnfuality, with the

Effica'ciously. adv.

pious will

;

Worn out with age.
.Ml that can be allo.vtd liim

South.

than of any other.

form in femblance

and cxhaufted, the animal becomes

more

tive efficieny of this particular fort of finning,

roEFl'GlATE. -v.

It is probable th*t females have in tlicm the fccils
all the young they v.-ill afterwards bring forth,

wliicli, all fuent

[effeauer, French.]

Tobring topafs; to fulfil.
lie foinid means to ac<)iiatnt hitnfclf with a nobleman, 10 wlwm diftovcring what he was, he
found him a fit mlttumenl toeffe^unlc his defire.

Grnu.

Effe'te. <;y^'. [t^rf-/ttr, L.uin.]
I. Barren; difabled from generation.

'

I

Hooker.
order the courfe of our aftairs.
That they are carried by the manudu£lion of a
rule, is evident; but what that regulating efficiency

owe their heal to anycoUuiftation ox effervejctnce of the minerals in theip, but to
IV^^aU'warJ's Sal. Hiji.
fubteriaiican heat or hre.

A fubjeS of that vaft latitude, that the ftreiifi.h
of one man will fcarcely be fufficiei.t cffi.-inul/y to
•v. a.

MeaJ on Poifoiis.

jccfion of the chalk.
Hot fprings dp not

of

To Kfff'ctuate

reafon, than creatures uniealbnable by their fenfe aiie
able to apprehend alter what manner we difpofe and

La-

fwTetiili,

and decent preratdtioiis for devotion, may comj-of'c and recover
the wandering miud moie rJfiHuatiy than a fermoa.

carry it on.

[effer-vefio.

In the thymical fcafe, effervtfcence fignifies an
intclline motion, produced by mixing two bodies together that lay at reft beiorej attended lometimes
with ahUriog noife, frothing, and ebullition.
Arbuthnot on Aliment i.
Take chalk, igniteil in a crucible, and then pow-

•.

Sometime the fight of the

efFeds; agency.
The manner of this divine effiienry being far
above us, we are no more able to conceive by our

tion of heat by inteftine motion.

Hi,iiker.

Effe'ctuaii.y. adv. [itom fjf'eclual.] in
a manner produftive of the confequcnce
intended

the.

.

Philrm. 6.

Reprove my allegation, if you can
Or eile ca.\clude my words cffcflual.

;

E F f I R V £ ^s c E N c E w./. [ ftom efervco, LaThe adt of growing hot; productin.

The communication of thy faith may become
rffeBual, by the acknowledging of every good thing.

not in ufe.

Tillotfon.

The compound fpiri? of nitre, put to oil of cloves,

Tlic rctding of fcripture is cffefiual, as well to
lay even the lull foundation, as to add degrees of far-

Veracious; expreflive of fafts.

;

tion.

Produftive of cffefts; powerful to a degree adequate to the occafion ; operative ;

2.

The apoftle tells us of the fuccefs and efficacy of
and, for thii
the Gofpcl upon the minds •f men
reafon, he calls it the power of God unto falvation.

To generate heat by inteltine mo-

tin.]

Effe'ctual. adj. [effeSlual, French.]

Peacham.

forms.

ftate of one emafculated or unmanned.
Vices the hare figured; not only feneration, or
ufury, I'rom its fecundity and fuperfetation, but deB.icon's Vulgar Errsurs.
generate rffemination.

Dtrham.

ther pcrfeftion, in the f&x of God.

effeminate.]

7 he ftate of one grown womanifh

We commeraoraic the creation, and pay worrtiip To EFFERVE'SCE. -v. n.

1,

Efficacy is a power of fpeech which reprcfents a
thing, by prefenting to oar minds the lively ideas or

Effi'cience .\n, f. [from efficio, Latin.]
The aft of producing
E»l I'CI ENCY.. )

children's mi-.ids, and make them fond o( trifles, 1
think all things Ihould be contrived to their fatis-

to that inliniie Being who was the effenoro't it.

Brovin.

unto God.

When one is fure it will not corrupt or effcminaie

;

culate ; to unman.

Shjkr/f.

Effe'ctor. »./. [efe^or, Latin.]

Hooker.

the tree of life before
that of good and evil, they hid fuftiired the curfe of
mortality ; or whether the effi.a y of the one had
not overpowered the penalty ol the other, we leave it
tailed

to weaken ; to emaf-

[,?^wr»a, Latin.]

a.

<i>.

To make womanifti

Taylor'i Riilf of living holy.

Whaifi.ever is fpoken concerniDg the efficacy or neGod's word, they tie and reftrain only into

ceility of

1'he arguments drawn from the goodnefs of God,
have a prevailing ir^Kify to induce men to repent.
Rogers.

To Effe'minate.

receive no hurtfrsm him.

Effe'ctless. o^'.

Milton.

more rffrminale and foft his life.

ufcful

;

the confcquence intended.

Whether if they had

Shall we at lall conclude tffeminaie peace ? Sljaiefp.
From man's efftrr.inate ll.ickncis it begins,

Who (hould better hold Irs place.

E'fficacy. n. f. [from efficax, Latin.]
ptoduftion of
Power to produce eliecls

fermons.

Refembling the praftice of a woman
womanifh: of things.

,

4. Having the power of operation

:

If we find that any other bodv ftrjkes »^«t(V/fy
enough upon it, we cannot doubt out it will move that
way in which the ftriking body impels it.
Digby on Bodieu
•

effiorcfen.e.

I.

-

Bacon.'

iixcrcfccncics in the form of flowers.

Two

E F F
form of ftirubs, formed

eies in

bjr

The

[In phyfick.]

breaking

called exanthematous ;
and the like.

out of

^lincf.

H'rffman^i Surgery.

Efplore'scent.

aJJ.

Lat.]

\efflorefco,

Shooting out in form of flowers.

Latin.] That
which iflues from fome other principle
ff.

/.

[effuo.

Bright effluence of bright clTeHce increate. Mllian.
Thefe fcintillations are not the afcenfion of the
air upon the coliilion of two hard bodies, but rather
the inflammable effiumcct difcharged from the
baches collided.
Brnun.
From the bright effluener of his deed
They borrow that refleflcd light,
With which the lairing lamp they feed,
Whofe beams difpcl the damps of envious aighr.

Prhr.
Latin.]

T «'•/• [from ^ffluo,

Efflu'via.

Thofe fmail

Efflu'vium. J

particles

which

are continually flying off from
bodies ; the fubtilty of which appears from
their being able, a long time together, to
produce very fenfible effcfts, without any
fenfible diminution of the body from
whence they arife.
^incj.
If the earth were an ele^lrick body, and the air
but the effiu-vium thereof, we might believe that
from attraction, and by effluxion, bodies (ended to
the earth.
Brnun.
Neither the earth's diurnal revolution upon its
axis, nor any magnetick ejflitviii of the earth, nor
the air, or atmolphcie which environs the earth,
IfusJward.
can produce gravity.
If thefe e^ui'ijf which do upward tend,
Becaufe Irfs heavy than the air, afcend
Why do they ever from their height retreat.
And why return to feck their central feat ? Blackm.

E'fflux. n.f.

Latin.]
1. The act of flowing out.
Through the copious efflux of matter through
the orifice of a deep ulcer, he was reduced to a
\effiuxut,

Harvej,

(keleton.

Effufion ; flow.

HummenJ.

polTeffions.

That which flows from fomcthing clfe;
emanation.
Prime chearer, light

Of all material beings, firll and bc{{
Efflux divine

and that which flows more pro-

perly effiux.

run out

n.

1;.

[rffluo,

to flow away.

;

To

Latin.]

This is not of-

ten in ufe.
Five ihoufand and fome odd centuries of years
are effiuxed fince the creation. Beyle's Seraph, L(iVe.

Kfflu'xion. n.f.
1.

[effluxum, Latin.]

The aft of flowing out.
the earth.

2.

Braivn.

That which flows out

;

effluvium ; ema-

nation.
"There are
fpirit,

fome

body to body.

7e Effo'rce.
1.

light effluxicni

horn

when men are one with another.;

To force

;

as

[(;^or«r,

In all that room was nothing to be fcen,
But huge great iron cUcUt and <.afii»> ftrwg,

He fell, and, deadly pale,
Groan'd outhis foul, with guiliing blood rffas'd.

Milmt.
At lad emerging from his noftrils wide.

And guOiing mouth, effui'd the briny tide.
Pile's Odyfey,

Effu'se. n.f.

TiEFFo'RM. -v.a. [efformo, Latin.] To
make in any certain manner to Ihape
;

And much effu/e of blood doth m.ike me faint.

Efforma'tion.

[from efform.']
aft of fafhioniug or giving form to.
v./.

aiiakefp,

Effu'sion, n.f. leffufto, Latin.]
I.

The

.

The aft of pouring out.
My heart luih melted at a lady's tears.
Being an oidinaiy inundation;

But this effufion of luch manly drops.
This Ihow'r, blown up by tcnipcit ot the foul.

^fature begias to let upon her work of effurmalion.

M'jie.

They pretend to folve ph.-enomena, and to give
an account of the produaion and effirmalhn of the

Startles mine eyes,

uiiivcrfe.

Our blefled Lord commanded

Rjy,

of his death, and facritice

E'ffort. »./ [ffort, French.] Struggle;
ftrain ; vehement aftion
laborious en;
having gained viflories, we had made
as if we had loft them, Franc*

was at

likely,

broken open.
'..

Effro'ntery.

n.f. [effrtinterlt.Yi.l

They could hardly contain themfelves within one
unworthy afl, who had effrontery enough to commit or countenance it.
f<'''l Charlei.
Othcis with ignorance and infufficielicy have
felf-admifilion and effrontery to fet up themfelves.

A bold man's effromtery, in company with women, mill be owing to his low opinion of them,
and his hieh oneof himfelf.
Cl.ttiff,t.
Ta Effu'i.ge, v. n. [rjiilgco, Latin.]
lo
fend forth iuflre or cff^ulgence.
I know
not that this word is ufed.
The topai charms the fight,
Like thefe effulging yellow Itreams of light Saz'age.
n. f.
\effulgei,
Latin.]

brightnefs ; clarity:

The aft of pouring out words.
Endlefs andjfenfelels effnfioni of indigefted
ers, oftentimei difgtacc, in moft unfuftcrabic
ner,

the worthielt part of -Chiiftian duty towards
Hookir.

God.
.

Bounteous donation.

Such great force the gofpcl of Chrift had then
upon men's fouls, melting them into that liberal
tff'i'fion of all that they had.
Hamm. on Fundam.
.

I

he thing pointed out.

Purge me with the blood of my Redeemer, and 1
(hall be clean; wafli me with that precious effufion,
and I fliall be whiter than fnow.
King Lharles.

Effu'sive.
out

adj.

[from

ffft'fi.']

Pouring

difperfing.

;

The Nortli-eart fpends its rage ; th' effufi-ue South
Warms the wide ai"r.
-Tbonifon't Spiing.
[tfj.-e.Ta, Saxon.
A newt: an
evet; a imall kind of lizard that lives
generally in the water.

Eft. n.f.

Peacocks are beneficial to the places where ihey
are kept, by clearing of them fmm fnakc.-, adders,

fplendour.

the eft in cur country.

Nicholat.

EFT. fli/v.

[epr, Saxon.] Soon; quickly;
fpeedily ; (hortly.
Obfoleie.

On tlue
Imprefj'd, th effulgence of his glory abides. Milton.

With noife whereof he from his lofty (feed

'Ihy luttre, bleft iffulgcrwe, can difpel
The cloud* of error, and ihegloomof hell.

To hide his coward head from dying dread.

How foon tn' effiilfent emanations fly.
Through the blue gulph of interpofiug Iky
The downward fun

Eft through the thick they heard one rudely ruflr.

I)own fell to ground, and crept into a bulh.

Blackm.

ETyy\.Ofsv.itdJ. [ejfulgens, LTyUn.]
ning; bright; luminous.

Fairy S^'ecJt.

tJhi-

Quite confnmed with flame,

The idol IS of that eternal maid
I

Bluckm.

;

For fo at leaft 1 have prcfervM llie fame,

With hands profane, from being eft betray'd.
Fiirftje,

Lroks out effulgent, from amid' the flafli

01 brokcin louds.

pray-

man-

and efts, uponwhich they will live. Minim. Huji.
The crocodile of Egypt is the lizard of Italy, and

Effu'lcence.
Luftre;

Dryd. Homer.
.

Im-

proach.

Shakefp. Henry VI.

To lave th' effufion ot my people's blood.

A word

Pellileiiiial fymptoms declare nothing a proportionate efficient of their effraiile nature but arfenical fumes.
Harvey.

Hooker.

Yet (hall the be lelloi'd, fine; publitk good

French.]

terrible.

human or di-

For private int'reft ought not be withllood,

He fet apart annual Arms for the recovery of ma-

Dreadful; frightful;
not ufed.

abyfs was

Stop effufion of our ChnlHan blood,

terration.

[effroyable,

tlic

Burrrci'sT/xoiy.

And Itabhlh quietncfs.

Effo'ssion. «. /. {tffiiAto, Latin.]
The
aft of digging up from the ground ; de-

adj.

fame time when

Wafte ; the aft of fpilling or llicdding.
When there was but as yet one only family in

Pope.

and the procuring
Arbuthnot.

this

the world, no means of inftrudlion,
vine, could prevent ^^»A3» of blood.

We prize the iironger rffari of his pow'r.

of mummies.

Tbamjin't Spring.

Effumabi'lity^». /. [fumus, Latin.]
The quality of flying away, or rapoui-

be

''lay tor's H'ortty Communicant.
If the florj.gates of heaven were anv thing dithe torty days rain, their effufion, 'tis

the lame ejirtt

nufcripts the ejfejjion of coins,

crot», Ihould

ftinft from

could not have withllood us.

And always fct the gem above the flow'r.

the reprefentation

on the

made by breaking bread, and effufion of wine.

deavour.

Addifon on the Stale tflki Hat.
Though the fame fun, with all ditfufive tJys,
Blufh in the rofe, and in the diamond blaze,'

and makes me more ainaz'd.
Shakefp.

"

Effra'iable,

Wailc

1 he air hath got into my deadly wounds.

;

Merciful and gracious, thou gaveft us being, raifing us from nothing, and
efflirmiiig us after thy
own image.
laylor.

after

[from the verb,]

Not ufed.

efi"ufion.

to fafhion.

If,

To pour

out ; to fpill ; to ihed.

Spenfer.

to

Baem.
French.]
to break through by violence.
-v. a.

Bifie,

To EFFU'SE. -v. a. {tffufm, Lat.]

To ftrain ; to exert with effort or \'ehenicnce.
This word is not now ufed.
1 he palmer lent his ear unto the noife,
To wheet who called fo importunely
Again he heard a more efforced voice.

from

fpirit

or, if

may coin fuch a word, effumahiliiy,

3.

'

By effluxion and attraction bodies tend towards

adopted.
They feem to define mercury by vo'atilitjr,
I

itperfer.

i*'alii.

tbomfut't Summer.

!

Ti Efflu'x.

to violate by force.

!

The aft of flowing is more properly ef.

fluetict,

;

Then 'gan her beauty (hine as brightell Iky,
And burnt his beaftly heart t' effme her chaflity.

pudence; IhameieflTncfs; contempt of re-

Thefirrt ifflux of men's piety, after receiving of
the faith, was the felling and conl'ecraiing their

4.

To force; to ravifh

Fairy ^u.

That bad him come in halle.

Yeilow efforefcent fpirrj incmllations on ftone,

KfFLu'eNCE,

2.

as in the meafles,

A wart beginneth in the cutis, and feemeih to be
an efflore/cnce of the fc'fum oi the biood.

J.

ween

in diiiempcrs

An ufeful word, but not

Ing in fumes

that ne'er could

Them to efforce by violence or wrong.

fVoidivarJ.

fome humours in the (kin,

2.

All barr'J with double bonds,

the trickling of

water.

3.

EFT

E F F

Two white Tparry incruftjtions, with ijjlirtfctn-

E'ftsoons. adv,

[ept and j^oop] Soon
afterwards; in a fhort time again.
An
obfoleto word j formed, as it feeinp, by
;

4 O 2

die

EGO

always repeating the word ego, I; a talker

two words of the
fame meaning.
He in their &Kzifft/oo«i placed Engliflimen, who

the conjunftion of

hll,

was to be thought thatnewwarsfhoiildf/'//i«i«xenlue.

A

K):ollcx't liijhry.

M

[exempli gratia.]
inftance or example.

furniifi hiifory with the records of

remarkably vicious.
Eminently bad
This is the ufuai fenfe.

z.

Divers creatures fleep all the Winter; as the bear,
the hedge-hog, the bat, and the bee : thefe all wax
fet when theylleep, and <^<'/J not. Bacon' iflai Hip.

«./.

\egefiut,

natural vents.
the natural or

exertions of digeftion , fgc^'iw', and circulation.

1. That

bottom ot a moat, where the earth had fomewhat
overgrown it ; and this egg was come to the haidnefs
of a tlone, and the colours of the white and yolk
BacoH.
ftrleft.
Eggt are perhaps the higheft, moll nourilhing,
and exalted of animal food, and m«ft indigeftible.
Aihulhno!.

2. The fpawn or fperm of other creatures.
Therefore think hinv as the ferpent's eggr
Which hatch'd, would, as his kind, grow mif-

Org.ins involv'd and latent life difplays.

3.

fwarms ; their tumultuous manner of ilTuing out of
their Ihips, and the perpetual egrrjjicn, which fccmed
without end, are imaged in the bees pouring out. /*&/>(•.

E'gr.et. »./.
with red legs.

\eggia, to incite, Iflandick ;
incite; to inftigate
*j3ian. Sax.]
to provoke to aftion : for this, edge is,

To Egg. 1;. a.

To

'

]

;.

is fwcetcr than

A fpecies of rofe

;

[efglanlier,

French.]

fweet- briar.

0*cr-canopied with lufcious woodbine,
V' ith fweet mu(k rofes, and with eglantine. Shake/ji.
The leaf of eglantine, nr>t to flander,
Out-fweeten'd not thy breath. Shakefpeare'i Cymi.
Sycamores with eglantine were fpread,
A hedge about the fides, a covering o^er head. Dryd.

E'gotism. «./. [from ego, Lat. J The
f.iult committed in writin.g by the frequent repetition of the word ego or /
,•

too frequent mention of a man's felf in
writing or converfation.
The mod violent i-gcc/w which I have met with,
in the courli; of my reading, is that of Cardinal
rex Krus, I and my king. SfcHalor.
Wolfcy's; ego

&

E'coTiJT.

n. /.

[from ego.]

(he red : but the egriot is more four.

To EJA'CULATE. -v. a. [ejamlor, Lat.J
To throw ; to (hoot to dart out.
;

Being rooted foliftleway in the (kin, nothing near
fo deeply as the quills of

Derham'i Pityfica-Tbrology.
n. /.

Bailie.

French; perhaps
A fpecies of cherry.

[aigret,

Bacon.

think, foraetimes ignorantly ufed.

Study becomes jileafant to him who is purfuing
his gcmus, and wiiofc ardour of inclination rg| j him
forwaid, sad carrieth him through every obltacle.

E'otANTIwr.

n.f.

from aigre, four.]
The coEur-chcriy, which inclineth more to white,

here waj taken » great glafs-bithble with a long
neck, fuch as chemifts are wont to call a philofophi•^°y'calf^.

fowls, they are the

more

Greiv's Mu/aiim.

eafily ejaculated.

The mighty magnet from the centre darts
This (Irong, though fubtile force,thi-ough all the parts:
Its aClivc rays ejarulate.l thence,

Irradiate all the widecir:umfertnce.

Blacimere.

Ejaculation, n.f. [from ejaculate.]
1. The aft of darting or throwing our.
There fetmeth

to be

acknowledged,

in

the aft

of envy, an ejaeitlaiion or irradiation of the eye.
Bacon's EJjays.

There is tobeobferved^in thofedillblutions which
will not eafily incoipora;e, what the cifetls are ; as
the ebullition, tlie precipitation to the bottom, the
ejaculation towards the top, the fufpenlion in the

Bacon.

midll, and the like.

A fhort prayer darted out oocafionally,
without folcmn retirement.

2.

Drydett.

away; to difinifs

to drive

with hatred.

We are peremptory to difpatchThis viperous traitor;

;

4.

In yourdrefling

let there

be eJMuLitions fitted to

the feveral aftions of drcfliag ;

as at walhiiig your

hands, pray God to cleanfc your foul from fin.

To caft away

Shakefptare'sCoriolaJitf
;

to reject.

To have ejelied nhatfoever the church doth make
account of, be it never fo harmlcfs in itfelf, and of
never fo ancient continuance, without any other
crime to charge it with, than only that it hath been
the hap thereof to be ufed by the church of Rome,
and not to be commanded in the word of God, could
not have been defended.
Hooker,
Will any man fay, that if the words whoring and'
drinking were by parliament ^Vflei/ out of the Englifh
tongue, we (hould all awake next mornii^-ihafte and
temperate.
Swiji..

•

lf^r,odiv,ird's Nat. Hijl.

Er.ar'ssioN. n.f. [^-^r^^w, Lat.] The aft
of going out.
The vail number of troops is exprefled in the

'1

.

To expel;

He dies to-ni^ht.

Any thing fafjiioned in the lliape of an E'griot.

,

fubmitted to the church.

3.

Gates of burning adamant,
Milton.
Barr'd over us, prohibit all egre/s.
This water would have been locked upwithin the
earth, and its egrefs utterly debarred, had the llrata
of llone and marble remained continuous.

egg.

force with force

Miltoa,
when the conquer' J can.
The French king was again ejeQed when our king

Is well ejeHed,

For making him egregioujly an afs,

A fowl of the heron kind,

B/ackmor,:

expreflion.
Itwasthc force of conqueft ;

E'cREss. n.f. [egreffus, Lat.] The power or
aft of going out of any place; departure.

Sbakeffeare.

chievous.

Evry infefl of each different kind,
In its own egg, chear'd by the folar rays,

South.

To throw out or expel from an office or

2.

And pradlifing upon his peace and quiet.
Shakefpeare^s Othello.
He difcovered that, befidcs the extravagance of
every article, he had been egregioujly cheated.
Arbulbnot'sjobn Bull.

Ecc. »./. [ojj, Saxon; origh, Erfe.]

may exhauft the man, but not ejeSt

to eje^ him hence.
Were but our danger and to keep him here,.
Our certain death ; therefore it is decreed

Even to madnefs.

Hales' s Origin ^^ Mankind.

produced.
An egg was found having lain many years at the

Tears mayfpoil the eyes, but not walh away the
the burthen.

Make theMoor thank me, love me, an4 reward me,

involuntary

which is Ijud by feathered and fome
other animivb, from which thcit young is

On the left fide ejefls the bounding wave. Blackmore.
afflitlion, fighs

EcRE'ciousLY.ai/'i'. [homegregioHs.] Eminently ; (hamcfuUy,

The animal foul or fpirits manage as well their
fpontaneous aflions as

Sandju
The heart, as faid, from its contrafted cave,

!

The ail

Lat.]

of throwing out the digefted food at the

Infernal lightning fallies from his throat I

EjeHed fparks upon the billows float

and egregisus contempt of all

Hookei 's Preface.
good order, are the worlV.
Ah nie, moll credulous fool
Sbakefpeare's
Cymbeline.
Egregious murtherer
And hence th* egregious wixzard (hall foredoom
Pope.
The fate of Louis and the fall of Rome.

EjE'cTros. n.f. [ejeSio, Lat.]1. The aft of calling out;, expulfion.
Thefe (lories are founded on the" ejcUiiM of the
Broome.

fallen angels from heaven.

2.

[In phyfitk.]
tiling

The difcharge of any

by vomit,

or

ftool,

any

emunftory.

other,

!^incy,.

Eje'ctment. n.f. [from f/f<?.]

A legal,

writ by which any inhabitant of a houTe,
or tenant of an eftate, is commanded todepart.

An expreflion of fadden de-

EicH. interj.
light.

EIGHT,
Gothick

adj.

[eapra,

Saxon ;

achi, Scottiih.]

;

abta,.

Twice four.

A word of nomber.
This iflaad contains c/^// fcore and eight miles in
Tandy's Journey,

circuit.

Eighth, adj. [from «^^/.]

Next in orthe ordinal.of eight.
Another yet ?— .^ I'cventh I'll fee no more
And yet the eighth appears Shakrfpear't Machetb,
In the eighth month (hould te the leign of Saturn,
Bacon,
der 10 the feventh;

!

;

!

I

(lay reludlant fcven continued years.

And water her ambrolial couch with tears ^
The eighth ihe voluntarily mores to part,
Or urg'd by Jove, or her own changeful heart. Pope.

Ei'ghteen. adj.

[eight

and ten.]

Twice

nine.

He can't take two from twenty, for his heart.
Sh.tkefpeare's Cymbeline,
And leave eighteen.
If men niiturally live but twenty years, we fliould
be fatisiied if they di»daboiitc-'g/.''''M ; andyetc/f A/ff<»
years now are as long as eighteen years would be then,
Tijjr/or.

Taylor's Guide to Oex'i.tion.

One that is Eja'culatory, adj. [irom ejaculate.]

and

(its

L'EJIrange,

To EJE'CT. -v. a. [ejicio, ejtaum, Lat.]
1
To throw out ; to caft forth ; to void.

We maybe bold to conclude, that thefe laft times,

out food at the natural vents.

that take us by

Itarts.

;

for infolence, pride,

hafty.

ejaeulatory repentances,

One to empire born ;
Egregious prince; whofe ounly childhood (hew'd
His mingled parents, and portended joy
Philips.
Untpcakable.
An egregious and pregnant inftance how far virtue
(Voixlward.
furpaffcs ingenuity.

From the peculiar difpofition of the earth at the

Ece'stion.

egregicut exploits

Moore againji Albeifm,

both of art and valour.

An impetuous

bottom, wherein quick excitations are made, may
arife ihofc egers and flows in fomc eftuarlcs and
rivers; as is oblervablc about Trent and Ilumber in
Brown^i Vulgar Errours.
England.
7»Ece'st. v. a. [c^cro, Latin.] To throw

Sudden ;

We are not to value ourfelves upon the merit of

Eminent; remarkable; extraordinary.
He might be able to adorn 'this prefentage, and

I.

For the fake of an

E'ciSL. n,/. [SeeKAcnR.]
or irregular flood or tide.

tions.

2.

fome

than in their larger devoDuppt's Devotitn,

(hort ejaculaiory prayers,

EGRE'GIOUS. adj. [egregious, Lat.J

O

E.G.

The continuance of this pofture might incline to
eafe and drowfinefs ; they ufed it rather upon

To talk

ToE'coTizE. f. n. [from ego,]
much of one's felf.

fweetheart kind, my love repay,
Efifrxni,
Gay'i Vcjl.
the year Ihall then be holiday.
And

fliort

fentences.

tribe of egotiJIs, for whom I have always ha4 a
mortal averfion, arc the authors of memoirs, who ate
never mentioned in any works but their own. Sfefi.

m\ their Unds.

Run all in hafte to fee that filver brood.
Spinftr
The Germans deadly haled theTurks, whereof it

Suddenly darted out ; uttered in

1.

of hiinfelf.

Sftnjer'i Stale uf htlnnd.
J?/(/oo/;j the nymphs, which nosv had flowers their

pofltfl'ed

E I G

E J A

Eighteenth, adj. [itom eightetn,]
I

Ihe
next

E L A

E I T
next in order to the feventeenth ; twice
ninth.
In the tiibtentb jtat of Jeroboam died Abnam.
I Kingi.

Ei'ther. fl</'u. [from the nonn.] A diftrlbutive adverb, anfwered by or; either the
one or.

Caufe us to alter th* order now aflign'd ?

Daniel.
Either your brethren h.ive miferably deceived us,

Eighthly, living creatures Iiave vuluntary motion,
wliich plants have not.

in

Bacon's Natural Hijliry.

order to the feventy-ninth ; eighth

cry ;

Some balances are fCTexafl as (o be fenfibly turned
with the eirttitlb part of a grain.

And ejulatiox, in the pangs of death>.
Philips.
Some call for aid.
Eke. eidv. feac, Saxon ; ook, Dutch.] Alio
likewife; befide; moreover.
If any ftrength we have, it is to ill
But all the good is God's, both power and eke will.
i^iiy Q^een.

!

Ei'cHTY. adj. [eight and ten.] Eight times

Among all other climaQericks three ate mod remarkable ; that is, feven times feven, or forty-nine ;
nine times nine, or eighty orx ; and feven times nine,
Of the year fiity-ihree, which is conceived t» Carry
with it tilt moftxonfiderable fatality.
BroXL'ti's Vulgar Errattrs.

Eigne, adj. [aifne^ Fr.] [Inlaw.] Denotes
Here it fignifies
the eldeft or firft bom.

'Twill be prodigious hard to prove,

To fupply

Bacon.
may well and worthily be ottered.
Ei'sEL. »./. [4oj"il, Saxon.] Vinegar, verAn old word.
juice ; any acid.
Call ia thy mind
If thou paine thy tafte; remember therewithatl.
Chrift for ihec tailed eiji/ind gall. Sir T. More.

How

Saxon; auther,

If the body is compact, and bends or yit^ds inward

and

;

To f[vn out by ufelcfs addition?.

or the other.

[In

this fenfe it fcems borrowed from tlic ufc

arife from the foliJs, as to their different
degrees of ftrenglh and tcniion ; in fome being too
lax and weak, in others tooel.ijiicjk and drone,
Arbuthnot on Aliments.

but he neuher lover.

Nor either cares for him. Hbakejf. Ant. attdCleepal
So like in arms thefe champions were,

Drayton*! Nymp.
That either had been either.
Coring made a {.ilt fricndfhip with Difeby, citi>er of
tliem believing he could deceive the other. Clarritjon.
1 do not a(k whether bodies do lb exilV, that the
motion of one body cannot really be without the
motion of another to determine this e tber way, is
to beg the quei^ion for or againft a vacuum.
hvcke.
:

Each ; both.
In the proiefs of natural beings, there fcem (one
to be creatures placed, as it were, on the confiiics of
feveral provinces, and prticipating fometliing of
tilher.
Hale.
SeWn times the fun has eitbtr tropic'a rirw'd,
'i'hc Winter banilh'd,and the Spring tcncw'd

Drydtn'i Vii£i'!.

two;

Any of an indeterminate number, as in
the following pafTage
Henry VHI. Francis I. and Charles V. were fo
providciii, as fcarcc a pulm of ground oould be gftt'en

by either of the three, but that the other two would
fct the baUnce of Europe upright a|ajii.
Bgecn.

Ei.ASTi'ciTY. 71. /. [fr»m elajiick.] Force
in bodies, by which they endeavour to
rcftore themfelves tp the pofture fromw hence they were difplaced by any external force.

elajlicityi

To heighten and improve by fucceflive

Ela'te.

Lat.]

liticians moll agitate dc.'peratedeligns. XingCbarles,

At leartjOn hsr bclJow'd
Too much of ornament, of outward ihew

Su'ift.

[from

elaborate.]

l.abotioufly; diligently; witli great ftudy

or labour.

Soitrh.

yet jTove abortive,

Some colourc'i powders, which painters ufc, may
changed, by being very
elaiiortitcly and hnely ground,
l^'cxuton's Opiicki.
will
venture
once
to
incur
the cenlure of lotne
I
Bmllry.
perfons, fur \ie\Dlelaioratily (tilling.
little

Pope,

Flnlhed with

Lat.]

Ipfty j

I, of

mind elate, and fcorniiig fear,

TIius with new taunts iiifult the monliet's ear,

Pofe-s Odyfey.'

ToE'late. v.et. [from the noun.]

To elevate with
with profperity.

1.

fiiccefs;

to

puff up-

An unufual

To exult; to heighten.

Or truth, divinely breaking cn-his mind,
£/.ij<-i

his being, and unloWs his power,

Tbomfon.

An inf. [Latin.]
fpiflatcd juice, light, of a friable texture

ELATE' RIUM.

n.

and an .ncid atrd pungent tafte. It is"
procured from the fruit of a wild cucumlier.
It is a very viofent and rough
purge.

Pjliiick conception?, fo elaborately forfncd and
wrotight, and grown at length ripe tor delivery, do

have their colours a

[elatns,

Oh, thoughtlefs mortals! ever blind to fate!
Too loon dcjcdlctl, and too foon elatsi

2.

Eiaiorale, of inward, lefs exaft.
Milton.
Man is thy tlieme, his virtne or his rage
Drawn to the lite in each elah'rate page,
If alter.
Confider the difference between r/<t^crrt/fdifcourfes
upon important occalions, dciiv'^rcd 10 parliaments,
and a plain fer.-non intended tor the common people.

adj.

fucccfs ; elevated with profperity ;

Fi-

Pormaliti:s rf extraordinary zeal and piety arc
never mr>re ftudied and elaborate than when po-

and immediately it
Arbuthnot.

haughty.

ni(hed with great diligence ; performed
with great labour.

erdv.

filty,

Mc eniptinefs and dulnefs could iufpire,
-\nd were my ilajlicity and-hre.

Voung.

and exalted, as it circulates through the velTels of the
plant.
Ariulbnol.

El a'b OR AT ELY.

away

take

raili^th ilie weight,

2,

[elahratiis,

i^ii'icy,

AlLte-liring will bear an hundred weight witiiouc
rupture; but at the fame time cannot exerts its

Pope.

To produce with labour.

Ela'borate. adj.

A< they had been a very pair
So that a man would almoi\ fwear.

and break through, where it meets with the ueakell
Bemlef, -

rcliltance.

To ELA'i:ORATE.-^. a. [ekboro, Lat.}

endeavours or operations.
The fap is divcifihed, and ftill mpre elaborated

L.epidus flatters both,

A

fermentation muft be excited in fome affignable
place, which may expand itfelf by itse/iiy?/c.?/ power,

lines, when they vvanted afyllable.

1.

forces

Nevton't Ofticii..

of our old poets, who put rke into their
Eufden r^ejoul Blackmore's endlcfs line.

hgurc with a

The moft common divcrfilies of human conftifi-

I

4»

its

tions,

to lengthen.

fpeak too long; but 'tis to piece the time.
To eie it, and todruw it out in length,
Toftay you from ele^ion. Shaliejp. AUrcb, ofVenice.

returning to

elaflick,

rifing Irum the mutual attradlion of its parts.

kind.

They in full joy elaltoraten figh,

Which loererof the two; whether one

.J.

The ftarry loof, and roll the orbsin air, Blackmore.

to fill up deficiencies.

;

To protrafl

3.

Scottifh.j

J. It is ufcd fomctimes of more than
any one of a certain number.

By v/hatela^iclc engines did (he rear

P-rtor.

On fome patch'ddogholcr^'*/ with ends of wall. Pope,

How thou refeniblclf Chritt, as with fowre poifon.

2.

-

to predion, without any flidinj; of its parts, it is hard

Still be

for the alienation that coroeth after it, the party will

;

turning to the form from which it is
or withheld; fpringy; having
the power of a fpring.

Your ornaments hung all^

offer to fue idr a pardon unccmpelltd before i be time ;
in all which, fome mitigation of the uttermot't value

Of both is flatter'd

ELA'STICAL.Ta^-. [from .'a««] HavELA'STICK. / iiig the power of re-

And f/e out ourperformancc with your mind. .Sioi^.

for life, which is eigne, and not fubjeft to forfeiture

1.

Thereisadociblefeafon, a learning time in youth,
which, fuffered to ehpfe, and no foundation laid,felJom returns.
Clai'iffa,

I dempt there much to have eieJmy ftore.
But fuch eiing hath made my heart fore.
Sfenfer.
The little Itreogth that 1 have, I would it were
with you.
—And mine to«('Oul her's. Shakeff). Asyou lUtit.

not feldotn, that, to avoid the yearly
oath, for averment of the continuance of fome ellate

[sejbefi,

notice.

To increafe.

2.

P^ior,

To Ela'psz. v. tt. [elafi/ttt, Lzt.] To pafs
away; to glide away; to run out without

To Ekf. t>. a. [eacan, Saxon \_
J.

Prior,

!

Harlh words, that once elanc'd, rauft ever fly
Irrevocable,

diftorted

That this IS the the throne of love.

It happeneih

pron.

Joyfully repeated lij

That courage does itfelf exert,

unalienable, as being entailed.

Ei'thsr.

While thy unerriilg hand elartc'd
Another, and another dart, the people

Now if 'lis chiefly in the Reart

ten ; fourfcore.
Eighty odd years of forrowhafe I feen.
And each hour's joy wrcck'd with a week of teen.
Sbjkfjfeare.

To

breaks out

With difmal groans

m/tint'i Mjli. Magic.

!

Ray.

Swift to Pop e.
Latin.] Outlamentation ; moaning ; wailing.

Government of the- Tongue.

Eight/core t\%\a hours? and lovers abfent hours.
More tedious than tlie dial tight/core times ?
Sliakefyeari's OibeiU.
Oh weary reckoning

a tedious procefs of generation and nutrition.

To Elance. "v. a. [elancer, French.]
throw out; to dart ; to caft as a dart.

[ejulatio,

Inftead of hymns and praife^, he
into ejutations and effeminate waitings.

tenth.

Ei'cHTSCORF.. fl</x'. [eight and/core.] Eight
times twenty ; an hundred and Cxty.
What keep a week away ? ftven days and nights ?

veflels for the elaboration of the fpeim and eggs ; fuch

or power confers virtue.

The next Ejui.a'tion. a./,

\^\om. eighty.]

«i//.

are

S-wift.

provement by fucceUive operations.
To what purpofe is there fuch an apparatus of

Europe ; no nor of either the
Bacon's Netu Atlantis.
Eaft or Weft Indies.
What perils fliall we hnd.

eighth place.

there elaborately (heivn, tint pateats

Elabora'tion. n.f. [from elalorate.] Im-

arrive upon any Ihore of

If either place, or time, or other courfe,

is

good.

We never heard of any Ihip that had been feen to

Ei'ghtfold. aJf. [eight and fold.] Eight
times the number or quantity.
Ei'cHTHLY. adv. [from eighth,'] In the

Ei'ghtieth.

E L B
It

Ela'tion.

Hill,
t.

Haughtinef*
pi ide of prof-

f.[Ucixr\ elate.]

proceeding from fuccefs ;

perity.
(Jod began fo punilh this vain elation of mind, by
Atitrburyrwithdrawing his favours.

EL'BOW, n.J. [elboza, Saxon.]
i.Tb«

^

ELD
The

1.

E L E

next joint orcunature of the arm

credit and reverenec.

below the fliouldcf
In fome fair evening, oh your r/^vlaid.
You drejin of triumphs in the rural (hade.

Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father,
I Tim, v. i

Fruit trees,

rif

vines, fet

upon a

vfall

between

Shake otl' their ilcril nirfc.

Swans and Motichain, in the opera of Dioclelian,
have danced upon the Englirti ftage with good

which lliey received by
continual ti^adition from their parents, by recording
of their bards and chronicles, in their fongii, and bv
daily ufe and enfample of tlicir^/i/ff/. Spenfer's Irel.
At tile board, and in private, it very well becomcth children's innocciK'y to pray, and their elders to
obfervcrs of old culloms,

to ftretch out the elbows on each fide;
perfcft freedom from confinement.
;

Shahjf.
It would not out at windows nor at doors.
The natives are not fo many, but that there may
be ilicxunom enough for themi and forj the adveuBacii«.
tiv« alfo.
A politician muft put himfelf into a ftate of liberty
to provide dbnur<xt» for confgiencc to have its full

l^Among

[Among prefbyterians.] Laymen

6.

duced into the kirk-polity in

To El'bow. 'V. a. ffrom the noun.]
One tlbovis hims one joftles in the (hole.
Dry den's "Jievna}.

To pufli

2.

;

to drive to a diftance; to en-

E'loer.

It thrufh andfttetches out.

And flhfj'ws all the kingdoms round about. Dryden,

n. f.

intro-

Ele'ct. adj. [from the verb.]
1. Chofen; taken by preference from among
others.

You have here, lady,
And of your choice, thefe reverend fathers,
Vea, the elcS} of the land, who are aflTembl'J
Sbakefp. Henry VI 1 1.
To plead your caufe.
2. Cnofen to an office, not yet in poflcffion.

The bilhop eteB takes the oaths of fupremacy,
canonical obedience, ;ind agaiiill fimony; and then
the dean of the arches Kiis, and fubferibes tlie fen-

feflions,

A vicious liver, believing that Chtift died for none
but the ilecl, (hall have attempts made upon him
Hammond
to reform and amend his life.
Some I have chofen of peculiar grace,
Milttn.
Eka above the reft : fo is my will.

Ele'ct ION. »./. [ele^io, Lat.]

To E'lbow. -v. ft. To jutout in angles.

:

and are fucceeded by
having three feeds in each.
Look for thy reward

1. Old age ; decrepitude.
Her heart with joy unwonted inly fwell'd.
As feeling wond'rous comfort in lier weaker elJ.

Miller,

would chufe the mectell ?

Spenfer.

E'lderly. adj. [from elder.

perfons

'

and beauty than 4 prudent eleBion of ubjeOs,
Spratt.
and a fit application afit to them.
tre

"^

The world, while ii had fcarcity of people, undei^'ent no other dominion than paternity and fl~
'
derjhip.
Raleigh.
That all (hould Alihcch adore, 'tis true;

'

Milioit.

worn out with

My claim to her by eldcrjhip

They counthimof ihegreen-ha'.- 'df/</. Chafman.

1

:

E'LDias. »./. \iromelder.'\

If Mcmnon's intereftdid not prop hiscaufe.

Ronve.

Hrelbytery ; ecclefiaftical fenate ;

kirk-

2.

3. Voluntary preference.
He calls upon th< fmners to turn themfelves and
live ; he tells us, that he has fet before us life and
death, and referred it to our own elelHon which we
-Rcgeri.
willchufc,

Difcernment;

4.

feffion.

That

of that e. derjhip to be of necelFity certain chofcn out
Hooktr, Preface.
from amongft the laity.

The
to

fuperlative

old.

[ealb,

of

eld,

1,

The oMeft; that has the right of primo-

it

maketh thofe preferred more

[In

theology.]

Jiaccn.

The predetermination

of G0.I by which any were

felcfted for

eternal life.

The conceit about abfolute ele£ii',n to eternal life,

We will eftablifli oureftate upon
Our eldrjl Malcolm, whom we name hereafter

The prince of Cumberland.
Shukefp. Machelh.
The mother's and her fWf/? daughter's grace.
It fcems had bnb'd him to prolong their fpacc.

DrydcH.

The perfon that has lived moft years.
men and
women that have hid chiidrco> or thofe who have
Eldcjl parents (ignilies either the oldeft

longcft had iU'ye.

men with much difTerence and

thankful, and the rcll more officious.
5.

geniture.

2.

In favour, to ufe
elefiion is good : for

ealbop,

ealoj-te, baxon.]

difcrimina-

The difcovering of thefe colours cannot be don*
but out of a very univerfal knowledge of things
which fo cleareth men's judgment mieleOion, as
Baetn.
it is the lei's apt to Aide into error.

of excommuiiicatioiis;
whether there ought to be in all churches an elder.
Jbip, having power to excommunicate, and a part

E'ldest. adj.
now changed

diftinftion;

tion.

up between Bcaa and

conthoverry fprang
Fraftus, about the matter

'

Davies.

Nor were the elder/hip

:

Hooker.
Let ftill the woman take
An elder than herfelf fo wears (he to him,
So fways Ihe level in her hudiand \ heart. Shakeff.
How 1 firmly am rcfolv'd, you know;
Thatis, not to bellow my youngcft daughter.
Before 1 have a hulband tor the elder. Sbakefptare.
Among the Lacedemonians, (he chief magiitrates,
as they were, fo were they called, elder men.
Raleigh's Hifiory.
The elder of his children comes to acquire adrgree
among
the
younger,
by
aulhoiity
the fame means
•f
the father did among them.
Fame's high temple Oands;
Stupendous pile ; not rear'J by mortal hands
Whatc'er proud Rome, or artful Greece beheld.
Or elder Babylon, its name excell'd.
Pcfe.

Now if God's pow'r ihoutd her ele^ion bind,

prove.

Of Artaxcrxes worth our leait of fears.

E'lder. adj. The comparative oi eld, now

Conf»rmiug themfclrts in attire to their i/^i-r (iflers.

For what is man w ithout a moving mi.id,
Which hath a judging wit, and chuiing will ?

Her motions then would ccafe, and (land all (till.

Dryden's Ind. Emp.

corrupted to s/i/. [<:alb, ealbop, Saxon.]
SurpafTing another in years; furvivor;
bavinff the privileges of primogeniture
oppolcd 10 younger.
They bring the comparifon of younger daughters

The power of choice.

2.

But fomc refpeft is to my birthright due :

years.

Milton.

As charity is, nothing can more increafe the luf-

Seniority; primogeniture.

1,

fVbilglfl.

Him, not thy eteilion.
But natural necelTity, begot.

Sbakeff.

He thought ittouch'd his deity full near,
If likcwife he fomc fairone wedded not.
Thereby to wipe away th infamous blot
Of long uncoupled bed and childlefs lU.

ted to every feveral parifh,

Amongll the nettles at the elder tree,
Which overlhades the mouth of that fame pit.

Thy blazed youth

be commitdo you thisk that they

If the ehliiin of the miniiler (hould

foft fucculent berries,

bel,

ELD. »./. [ealb, Saxon; e/J, bcottilh.]

Becomes afliiaged, and doth begthe alms
Of palfied eld. Shakefpeare't Meajurefot Meafurt.

The aft of chafing; the aft of felefting
one or more from a greater number for
any ufe or office; choice.

1.

the flovtxrs are monopetalous, divided into
feveral fegments, and expand in form of a rofe
thefe are, for the moft part, collcftcd into an um-

Dryden.

Chofen at an objefl of

eternal mercy.
»

The branches are full of pith, having but little
wood

Aylifle's Parergm.

tences.

3. [In theology.]

The name of a tree.

\i fortune takes not of)' this boy betimes.

He'll make mad work and elbnv out his neighbour!.

OTd people;

This prince, in gratitude to the people, by whofe
confent he was chofen, eielt.d a hundred ftnaion
Sviifi.
out of the commoners.
To feleft as an objeft
z. [In theology.]

Saxon; faTtibucus.']

[ellaj-a,

Daniel.

And Lewis of France, elelied hrft, beguil'd.

Cleaveland.

croach upon.

2.

(he

prelbyteries, fynods, and affemblics.
Flea-bitten fynod, an alTembly brew'd
Of clerks and elders ana; like the rude
Chaos of prelbytiY, where laymen ride
With the tame woolpack deigy by their (ide.

To pufli with the elbow.

1.

of

Rulers

the Jews.]

people.
s. [In the New Teftament.] Ecclefiafticks.

South.

play in.

Hooker.

fay Amen.

4.

to take

of eternal mercy.

Many nations arc very fupcrllitious and diligent

''".''

;

in preference to others.
Henry his fon is chofen king; though young;

Thofe who arc older than others.

3.

E'lbowroom.«./ [^/^9wand fiMwi.] Room

To choofe for any office or ufe

I .

Bays the goofc. If it will be no better, e'en carry
your head as yoMr elders have done before you.
L'EJlrange.
I lofc my patience, and I own it too,
Where works are ceijfui'd, not as bad, but new;
While, if our elders break all rcafon's laws,
Thofe fools demand not pardon, but applaufe. Pope.

Elbow cHA'lR. n. /. [Mew and chair.]
A chair with arms to fupport the ell)ows.

Now my foul haih etbov.'iaim

eampame root like ginger, to which they piefcr it,
/////'/ Maloia Medica.
and call it German fpice.
To ELE'C T. a-, a. [eleSm, Lat.]

Sbjkefp. Julius Cafar.

The blulTiing youth their virtuous awe difclulc.
And from their feats the reverend elders rofe. Sandys.
2. Ancedors.

Baon.
To be near ; to be

("ucccfs.

The Cermans have a method of candying ele.

The barren, touched in this holy chafe.

3. 7(1 ie at the Elbow.
at hand.
Strait will he come
Wear thy good rapier bare, and put it home
Quick, quick ; fear nothing, I'll if «r ihytlto^v.
Sbjh/ptari'i Othello.

•

Miller.

Our elders fay,

Mavi or buttreflcs of Hone, ripen more tlian upon
a plain wall.

enumerate thirty fpecies of this plant.

and the younger men as brethren.

Pope.

Any flexure or angle.

2.

Ef^eCAMPa'ne. n. f. \helen!um,'L3i.'\ A
BotanilU
plant, named alfo ftarwort.

Perfons whofc age gives them a claim to

t.

Ltcke.

fome enthuliafts entertaining, have been made

re-

Atterbury.

mifs in the praif^ice of virtue.

6. The ceremony of a publick choice.
I was forry to hear with what partiality, aad
popularheat,f/(<57/o/rx were carried in many places.

King Charles.
Since the late dilToIution of the club, many perAddif. SpeH,
fons put up for the next cleHion,

Ele'ctive. adj. [fromf/fiff.]
I.

Regulated

E L E
Regulated or beftewed by eleftion or

Electre.]

choice.

dies,

1.

I will

fay pofitive!y ai-d refoiutely, that it

I

a

property in forae bo-

E

•

poflible an eleSliiit monpichy fliould be fo free and
abfolute as an hercdit.^ry.
Bacor.

to hcredinry,
force,

has

made

it

feem hitherto

and unfitter lor a<^lion abroad.

ot

^lincy.

Trvtplt.

2. Everting the power of choice.
for where

there

force, there

is

can he

no choice:

whereas all moral goodi.efs confilleth
in the tleSivc afl ot the undcrlUnding will.

Gytw*i Cofmohgia Sacra.

upor. the fpirits, as to drive them into thofe muffles
flellittly,

I

am nut lijbtle enough to difccrn.

powders,

ingredient,

p'"""1.

It

fo attraft the epithet eleiirick.

being a kind of (iWer e/ee!re, and

Bacon
,.
"'''•

z.

,.

L"*""

"'^^'^"

cientj cn.'y

placed jctt and amber j
but fuch
conveuiciitiy placed, allrafl all bodies palpable.

Ol the eltHtick

body, and tn le expanrfed through
whole diameter i, jbove two feet, and vet
to be able to carry up lead, copper,
or leif.yold'at
the dUlaoce of above a foot from the tUeiiiik
jody.

enable

II

Nciinon.

I

Froduccd by an eleflritk body.

2.

2.

It thjt atiradtion were
not n'.Ucr //rUrka/ than
roagoetical, it was wonjerouj what

Helmont deli-

If a

1

.1

;

'1

he letters of any language.

The iowett or firft rudiments of literaWith religion

it

farclh as with other fclcnces
;

the firlb delivery of the elements thereof mull,
tor
like confidcratioii, be fr.uned -iccotdiiig to the weak
and Hinder capicityof young licginneis.
Houker.

^,y,^;,_

K^ll7

patilli

fliould

keep a pettv fchoolmaflcri

which ftiould bring up children in the hr(l elements

Ni-atly;

ofleitcrs.

Rfcrv
with minute beauty;

nicely;
with pleaCing propriety.

and junfture of every period :
there mutt be proper diftances and
pjuii..

under ther/<M(-///x of the world.
Gal.iv. 3.
Tl,?ie is nothing more pernicious to a j-O'jth,
in
the rttments of painting, than an ignorant mailer.
T--

i.

Pertaininij to elegies.

3.

Mournful; forrowful.

Dr\den,

T-..

y»Ki.rMENT.

f. a. [from the noun."]

1. Tn compound of elements.

Whether any one fuch body ba met with.
thofe laid to be elemented bodiej,
I

.

iscc

Upenjer.

Wc, when we were children, were in boinijte

Eleci'ack. ndj. [e/eg,aai!. Lit.']
Ufed in Elegies.

I

Baker on learning.
a conftituent part.
Who let the body and the limbs
Ol this great fport together, as you guefs?
One fure ih.it piomife;> no element
Infuch a bufiuefs.
SbuLfp. Henry

An ingredient

tuie or fcience.

Hltelt llylc of lotiv,

to the different turn

I

a

will not quarrel with a flight
miftake.

Nnrton'i Quick,.

iii-Ecm ciTV. tt /. [from cUatick,

6.

W hoevcr would write elegantly, mull have repaid

g,.^^

piece of white paper, or a while
doih, o:

a, to emit light.

;.

bac'^n.

Ihe Cod of one's finjcr, be held nt
about a quar-er
of an inch from the glafs, the tUarick
vapour, excited by friftion, will, by dafliiiig
againft the white
p..per, cloth, or finger, be put into
fuch an iignat

jnd according to ihc

Peter.

m.ikc

WW,

Pope.

They delcnbe her in part finely and
eleganih,
and 11) part grav. ly and fciiiciitiouily.

wreih concerninf a gla(«, wherein the magiftery
ol
loadHoMC wa. prepared, which retained
an atirac
tive quality.

\.

which
and write perfpicuuully,

mean, or lowly.
In a poem elegantly vir'n,

to

:

Stea

el,g.,ni with eulc.

dilcourfe

able

We are fimple men j we do not know (lie work*
by charms, by fpclls, and fuch daubry as is beyond
our element.
Shakefp.
Our torments may, in length o' time.
Become our elements.
Milton.
They (hew that they arc out of their element, and
that logick is none of their talent.

London.

men to

you

Bacon,

Nice; notcoarfe; not grofs.

eieg.,r.tly,

four of

He from his flaming (hip his chiljicn fcnt.
To perilli in a milder element.
tValler.
3. The proper habitation or fphere of any
thing
as water of lifh.

hi

J1I.EGANTLY. adv. [Uom elegant.]
1
Ill fuch a manner as to
pleafe.
Now read with them thofe organic arts

a Iphcie,

be

good
world ; for you are as differing as the four elements.

J

»,.

PJite with candour,

tion fo fublile, and yet fo potent, as by
its emiffion to caufe no feniible diminution of the
weight

I

Here

TriHes themfelves are elegant in him.
Pope,
There may'lt thou find fomc elegant letreat.

2.

An tUHrick body can by (ncVion em.t an cxlijla-

T>

^the elements melt with fervent heat.

Burnel.

thing that pleafes by its nicety,
this fenfe it has a plural.

Sbakejp. Ant. andCleop.

Contending with the fretful elements.
Bids the wind blow the earth into the fea.

.

Pleafing by minuter beauties.

a,

Shakrfp.

Or fwcll the curled waters.
Shakifp. Kli.g I.ear.
The hcivens and the earth (hull pafs away, and

^ r /
T
T
"-J- ['%<"•""». Lat.]

Any

ufed

j

to me.

Thy fpirits all ol comfort.
The king,

GUnvilW, ScrfJU.
This is the prefent

Given in charity.

E'LEGANT. adj. [eUgmi,. Lat.

Biiwn's yulgar Erroun.

When it is

The elements be kind to thee, and make

darick, and run into the beauiiiul
wildncfs of nature, without the nicer f/rgaw/Va
of art.

AttraAive withcut magnctifm ;• attractive by a pectiliar property, fuppofed
once to belong chiefly to amber.
By <liitnck bodies do I conceive not only fuch
as Uke lip light bodies, i;i which number
the an-

is

as it doth to

My compofitions in gardening are altogether Pln-

See EtEcTRg.

compofed.

it doth

that the

kind of eUr.,ncy in wrimakes fome diflerence.
Raldgh's Hijl.
Thefe queftions have more propriety,
and elegancy, underrtood of the old world.

turn the

reft into coin.

_

an abfurdity,

ting,

the compound

world

called,

water, of which our

air,

My dearcrt filler, fare thee well

better than

St. Auguftine, out of a

A mixed metal.

fire,

ufually fo

:

Beauty rather foothing than ftriking;
beauty without grandeur; the beauty of
propriety not of greatnefs.

I.

one fpecies of attraftion the
name of eUaricity, and to the bodies that

1.

little

E'lECANCE. \
E'lecancy. C

to

are earth,

Not ufed.
is

Halts,

elements,

Th« king is but a man
the violet Imells to liiiB
me and the clement (hews to him as

[fAlij^o(rt-»D.]

ufe.

Els'ctre. n.f. \eleanim, Lat.]
1. Amber; which, having the quality when
warmed by friftion of attracting bodies,

ELR'CTRICAL. 1
ELE'CTRICK J

Boyle.

onttMf.
2.

The four

alonp, element commonly means the air.

caufe (hould b« an elicmo/ytiary for its
fublirtence
to its effefts, as a nature polleriour
to and dependent

AdJifan'i freiboUer.

»eflel into

are compounded.

I.

Living upon alms; depending upon charity.

The

territor}' of an eleftor.

Change filver plate or

number of thofe ingredients of bodies, wh.ch
fome call elements, and others principles.
Boyle.
Simple fubftances are either fpirits, which have
no manner of compofition, or the firll principles of
bodies ufually called ir/n»f«(j, of which otiier bodies

of honey
honey or fyrup,

,

Hooter.

A man may rationally retain doubts concerning

common to any two of

liLEEMOSyNARY. ajj.

Hiving

He has a great and powerful king for his fon-inlaw ; and can himfelf command, when he pleales,
the whole flitngth of an eUEiorait in ihe empire.

ftuff,

except fugar,

'

tlie

^„„y,
We meet with divers eUBuarict, which have no

the dignity of^an eleftor.

2,

qualities which now they have.

impaired.

A prince who has a voice in the choice

gave

If nature (hould intermit her courfe, thofe principal and mother elemenit of the world, whereof all
things in this lower world are made, (hould lofc the

when the confiftence is fo thin, ferment
and when too thick, candy. By both
which the ingredients will be altered or

Feeding with thefe the brib'd elcdcns' hopes.
Alone ihe gave us emperors and popes,
H^aller.

Elk'ctorate. »./. [from elraor.]

thing.

in the confiftence

Elecluaries made up with

From the new world her filver and her gold
Came, like a tempeft, to confound the old;

of the German emperour.
Ele'ctoral. <j^*. [ftom eleHor.'^

The firft or conftitucnt principle of aiiy

I.

which is now written e/eauary.] A
form of medicine made of conferves and

officer.

2.

E'LEMENT. «./. [elemeKlt„n\ Lat.]

rel,

He that has a vote in the choice of any

1.

elegancies.

if

Ele'ctuary. n.f. [eleaarhm, Ccelius Au-

Ray on the Crtati n.
They work not tUB'ively, or upon propofing to
themfelves an end of their operations.
Crno.
Ele'ctor. «./. [from e/f^.]

Sbake/p,

So on Meander's banks, when death is nigh.
The mournful fwan fings her own elegy.
DryJen,
J. A fhort poem without points or affefted

endanger life. The ibrce of this vapour has hiilierto
appeared inftantaneous, perfons at both ends of
a
loiig chain feeming to be ftruck at
once.
The
philofophers are now endeavouring to intercept
the
ftrokes of lightning.

EtE'cTivELY.Afo. [from <•/?:•/.] bychoicc;
with preference ofone to another.
How or why that (hould have fuch an influence

name of Rofa-

A funeral fong.

2.

fitted

wiih fuch a quantity of the cleflrical vapour, as,
difcharged at once upon a human body, would

forfooth deifying the

all

'"'i-

in cleilricity a multitude of philofophical wondere.
Bodies elearificd by a fphere of glafs, turned nim
biy round, not only emit flame, but may be

To talk ol compelling a man to ic good, is a contradiftion ;

brambles,

Such was the account given a few years a"o of
clearicity; but the induftry of the prefcnt age° firit
excited by the experiments of Gray, has difcovered

Icfs

Gay's Trivit,

E'legy. t!./. [eleguSflAt.]
I. A mournful long.'
He hangr odes upon hawthorns, and elegtet upco

per. Of fuch like fubllances to them.

The lift change ollheirgov-ernment, from eteSivc

L-E

,'.E

Let elegiac lay the woe relate.
Soft as the breath of dIHant flutes.

whereby, when rubbed fo as to
grow warm, they draw little bits of pa

im-

is

E

2.

To conftitute

In

cuj.s

Bjylt.
;

to make as a firft princi-

pic.
Dull

'

•

ELI

ELT
tt.B?MA!*Tt'ASIS. »./. [tlepl-''t!tla/ts,\At.'\
A fpecies of leprofy, fo calletl from corerirg flie (kin with incniftations like
thofe on the hide of an elephant.

"Dslf fjWiiMry lovei 'i lovt,

Whofe foul is lenfe, cannot admit

or abfcncc, caufe It doth remove
Voitnt.
The thing which f/fm«"J It.
:ELtME'NTAL. adj. [from element:]
of the four elements.
I. Produced by fome

EtEPHA'NTiSE.

This fubterranean heat Offitt, i»hich elfyaie! the
ff-'ouiitvarj.
water out of the abyCs.
_

polfan, not proLeeches are by feme accounted
contrariety, occul
perly, that is by temperamental
repugnancy; but inform, orfo much as eUmenul
veins, and oc.
waiJlv taken, they fallen upon the
Hrcnvn
cafioii an effulion cf Hood.
ELEMENTA'llitY. ff. /. [hom'ekmmtap:\

Containing rudiments or tirll prmciples j
abfeiice of
the fimplicity of nature, at
;'
compofition being •uncoropoundcd.

;

Otliers apirtTat 00 a hill retir'd,

(..

Milton.

To leffen b^ detraftion.
though

fcdiment ot

copious
All rain water contains in it a.

This fenfe,
legitimately deduced from the

;

Latin, is not now in ufe.
againft you,

together, hath had the name of elf-locks.
llanmer.

what do they but t'tther delate their

as learned ?

of others
Hooker.

E'levatf.

Ex-

credit, or oppofe unto tliem the judgments

i«>ta,fimplef/«»;f«'aO'

"J'"-,
Kay.
fame as
"ntttlemcnlary falts of animals are not the
Alimcnn.
Arbmb. <,ii

p<irt. aJJ, .[from elevaled.]
alted ; raifed aloft.

theyappearbyduVillation.

My face I'll grime with filth,
Sbake^.
Kankct my loins, r//'all my hair in knots.
E'lfin. adj. [from elf.] Relating to fairies ;

,

.

•

.

ocing a
This drug is impiopeTiy«all«d gum f^cm.
The genuine eltmi is biought from A.ihiopia
refin.
of a yellowtlh coin flitli(b malTes, or in cylinders,
fuopofed to be
It is very rare in Europe, and
lour.

Ihe fpurious

produced by a tree of the .live kind.

m

is
American ^/cw/, almolt the only kind known,
let greennh
of a whitilh colour, with a greater or
from a tall tree, which
,*r yellowi(h tingf . It proceeds

the Bi-afilians wound, and colkift the reiin
Hill's

The firrt delufion Satan

The difruption of the llrata,

i""-- "J

on us.

the

cyder

countries fo ;

Exaltations of the
ceptions.

plication and elevation of fpirlt, with all t!ie

Exaltation of ftyle

4.

His lH!e

underft'anding,

are given.
herbs, and

all

many lurprifine

relations

This animal feeds on hay,
all

forts of pulfe ; .and

is

faid

He is fiipto be extremely long lived.
plied with a trunk, or long hollow cartilage, which hangs between his teeth, and
His teeth are the
icrves him for hands.
Calmet.
ivory.
lie loves to hear,
That unicorns may bebetray'd with trees.

elegant

H-'etton*

5.

Attention to objeifls above ns.
All which diftirent f/ff^/iowj of fpirit unto God,
Hooker,
arecontained in the name of prayer.

abakej^tare.

Shakrfp^
His legs ate for neceffity, not flexure.
X, Ivory ; the teeth of elephants.
High o'er the gate, in tltfham and gold,

2;he crowd Ihall Cselii's loiliui war behold.

Prjden't yirg.

And cakes the elf-Ueks in foul lluttifli hairs.
Which, once entangl'd, much misfortune bodes.
Sbakfp.
To ELI'CTTE. -v. a. [f/;Vw, Latin.] To
ftrike out ; to fetch out by labour or art.
Although the fame truths may be elicited, and exby the contemplation of anim.ils, yet they
are more clearly evidenced in the contemplation of
plicated

Halt's Origin of Mank.
He elicits thofe afts out of the meer laplisd ftate of
Cbiynt.
human nature.
Eli'cit. adj. [elkiius, Latin.] Brought
into aft ; brought from poffibility to real

man.

exiftence.
humility and obedience ; and not
ofmecknefs; mecknefs being

It is the virtue of

the formal

elicit

aft

ordinarily annexed to thefc virtues.
The fchools difpute whether, in

Hamm.
morals,

the ex-

ternal aftion fupcradds any thingof good or evil to Ihe
South.
internal elicii aft of the will.

The height of any heavenly body with Elicita'tion ti.f. [from c/iV/o, Latin.]
refpefl to the horizon.
Some latitudes hai-e no canicular days, as thofe
which have more than feventy-thrce degrees of
northern elevation, as Nova Zembla.
Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Eleva'tor. tt. f. \{-com ele-vate.'\ A raifer.
or lifter up, applied to fome chirurgieal
inftruments put to fuch ufcs.

ELE'VEN.

i^incj.

[adj. inWepen, Saxon.]

Ten

and one ; one more than ten,
Had 1 a dozen fons, and none lefs dear than Marhad TMhcr eleven i'lc nobly for their country,
than one voluptuouHy furteit out of adtion.

cius, I

ahakfpeare.

And bears with glaffcs, tltfbanU with holes.
The cUpbant hath joints, but not foriourlely

rich of

perfpicuity,

tion,

t.

quadruneds, of whofe
fagacity, faithfulnefs, prudence, and t:ven

J. Thelargtftof

was

but feldom any bold metaphors ; and fo
far from tumid, that it rather wanted a little eleva-

phrafe,

Mortimer's Hi/Jbatidty.

England.

heart,

Norris.

foul anit mind.

feveral parts of

E'tEPHANT. n.J. [elcphos, Lat.]

mind by noble con-

We are therefore to love him with all poitible ap-

^

not

Locke

ties.

^le'ots. ». /. Some name the apples in re-

known by that name in

I

Angels, in their feveral degrees of elevation above
may be endowed with mote comprehenfive facul-

Brown' I Vulgar Errcun.
Uifcover the fallacies of our common adverfary,
ritnchs
that old fophilter, who puU the moft abufivc

of

us,

whole tentation mi^ht be tlie fame f/fwA continued,
not die , that was, in his
a» when he faid. Ye
.equivocation, you (hall not incur prefent death.

eler'Htion

Exaltation ; dignity.

2.

belonging to elves.

oA

lyoodward.

3.

(hall

the

fome, and deprcirion of olliers, did not fall out by
chance, but were diie£ted by a difccroing principle.

Eve, and his

put into

Milton.

The .ift of raifing aloft.

1.

Mm. Med.

An argu-

aiLE'NCH. >i. f.\eUuchu!, Lat.]
ment; a fq>hifm.

On feven fmall hills.
_
Eleva'tion. n./. [elefatio, Litln.^

;

Unto that clfn knight he bade him fly.
Sf infer.
Where he (lept foundly.
Knots of
lock,^
E'lflock. «. /. [elf
hair twilled by elves.
This is that very Mab,
That plats the manes of horfes in the night.

With tow'rs and temples proudly elevate

JiXE'Mi..»./.

elfiih

Now when that idle dream was to him brought.

On each (ije an imperial city ftooJ,

2. Initial; rude.

in

a. [from the noon.] To entangle hair in fo intricate a manner, that
This the vulit is not to be unravelled.
gar have fuppofed to be the work of faiand all hair fo matted
ries in the night

To Elf. f.

When the judgments of learned men are alledged

ciple or conftituent part.

queft

For he ne'er could have fill'd it fo well of himfelf.
Swift.

Savagr.

Brightens his cretl.
;.

Pefe.

A devil.

That we may angels fcem, we paint them elves ;
DryJen.
Andarebut fatirej tofetupourfelvtS.
However it was civil, an angel or f//",:

Tomifchief fwift, hope elevates, and joy

having only one pnn-

terreltrial matter, and is

2.

Now riling fortune efevates his mind.
He Ihines unclouded, and adornS mankind
To elate with vicious pride.

Eleme'ktary, fl.^'. [from </<•«"'''.]

•

Of airy elies by moon-light Ih.ido'.v fecn.
The lilver token, and llie cii'ded green.

thoughts more elevau, and reafon'd high
Of providence, foreknowledge, will, and fate. Mill.
In all that great extent, wherein the mind wanders, in thofe remote fpcculations it mayfccmto be
eltvaud widi, dt ftirs -not beyond fenfe or reflaLteke.
tion.

b-,.,„„

Bi'.tun s Vulgar lirsours.

1

If e'er one vifion touch'd thy infant thought.
Of all the nurfe and all tlie prices have taught

1-n

earth, far above

theconduioi).off/f««/wny'

;

DryieHt

To exalt to dignify.
conceptions.
3. To raife with great

2.

Tip!.

And fip with nymphs, their eUm<ntdl tea.
-4. Arifing from firft principles.

Uncompounded

Whofe midnight revels by fome
Or foiintaiH, 1'omc belated peifint fee^.
MillM.
Or dreams he fees.
The king of .-//> and little fairy queen
Gambol'd on heaths, and danc'douev'ry green.
foreft fide,

To raife up aloft.

DiyJen'i VirgU.

Sn.iitff,

fairy »/-.«,

'

'i

away,
Soft yielding minds t9 water glide

1.

Every t//'aiid fairy fprite.

Hop »s light as bird from briar.

Lawn.]
[eh
a;. «.
7. [elfvo.
E'LpVATE. v.a.
To E'LpVA'VE.

That
war
Winds, rain, and llorms, and tlemfnury

A

;

Lat.]

[elephaiitinut,

aJj.

A vranJering fptrtt, fuppofed to be fe««
a fairy.
in wild unfreipented places
Through this houfe give glimmering light.
By the dcod and drowfy fire ;

elepli:
Pertaining to the elephant,

Kdulkyfpots arc vary'don hisbrovv.
And rtreali'd with red, a tfoubl'd colour (how
fullen mixture (hall at once declare

very large clafs ot creatures in die

I.

EleVenth, adj. [(torn eleven.l The next
in order to the tenth.
In the eir/venth chapter he returns tofpeakof the
Raleigl's Hijliry.
building of Babel.

ELF. »./. plural elves, [elf, Wellh. Baxters
Gloir.]

That clicitalion which the

fchools intend, is a de-

ducing of the power of the will info aft: that drawing which they mention, is merely from theappetibiBramhall.
lit' of the objeft,

r

To £li'd£.

-v.

[elido,

a.

Latin.]

To break

in pieces ; to crufh.

We are to cut oft" that whereunto they, from
whom thcfe objeftions proceed, fly for defence, whes
tlie force

and itrength of tlie argument is elided.
Hooker..

Elioibilitv..

». /.

[ixom eligible.']

Wor-

thinefs to be chofen.

The bufinefs of the will is not to judge concerning
the nature of things, but to choofe them in confequence of the report made by the underftanding, as to
Fidd's's Serm.
their eligibility or goodnefe.

E'LIGIBLE.
to be

Latin.]

Fit

chofen; wortSy of -choice;

pre-

adj.

[ehgibilis,

ferable.

A

miniftry ought to be fatisfied, if, al.
every particular man that liis private

Britilh

lowing

to

Ichwns

ELL
(Atmt ii wifeft, they can perfuade him, that next
(he
to his own plan, that of the govcrnmtnt is
AJdi/o't's Frtibcldir.

tnoft eligHU.

E L O

E L O

that going on with the
Did they really thir
war was more ebglitt for their countiy than (he

life's poor fpan

Defer not the laft virtue ;

Makes not an ell by trifling in thy woe.

A

figure of rhetorick, by which foniething is left out neceflary to be fupplied

That the moft plain, fhort, and lawful way to
«ny good end, is more eligible than one direftly con-

by the hearer as, tbt thing I lofve, for the
thing which / Icrce.

S-wift.

The words are delivered by way of ^///wJr, Rom.

had abatement of thofe conditions f

trary in fome or all of thele qualities.

I.

fufpenfe.

E'ligibleness.

[from

». /.

Worthinefs to be chofen

;

PT/*'n

eligible.]

aft of banifhing; the aft of turning out
JD'3of doors; rejeftion.
Eli'sion ».y. [<////<», Latin.]

Thcaft of cutting off;

On the cylinder inclined, defcribe an elliffts pa-

can't tV at-

as,

rallel to

tempt, there is an elifion of a fyllable.
Vou will obferve the abbreviations and elifions,
by which confoaauts of molt obdurate founds are
joined together, without any foftening vowel to inSwift.

tervene.

voluticns in circular orbs, or in ellifjis very little

Ell 'p Ti c A L
I

lipfis ;

Bacon's Natural llifiory.

The

Latin. J

Eli'xir. «./. [Arabick.]
1. A medicine made by ftrong infufion,

where the ingredients are almoft diflblved
in the menftruam, and give it a thicker
^incj.
conCftence than a tinfture.
For when no healing art prevail'd,

When cordials and elixirs fail'd.
On your pale cheek he dropp'd the (how'r,
Waller.

The liquour, or whatever it be, with

2.

which chymifts hope to tranfmute raetals
to gold.

No chymift yet the elixir got.

1

pl.mted in a wood or clofe plantation,
and their (hade will not be very injurious
to whatever grows under thcra ; for they

keeping them cut every year, to the
height of forty or fifty feet : but they
(hould not be planted too near fruit trees;
becaufe the roots of the elm will intermix with the roots of otlicr trees, and
Miller.
deprive them of nourilhracnt.
The rur.TJ feat,
Wbofe lolly i/;«i and venerable oa'' s,

The eH is a large and rtaidy animal of the flag
The neck is ihort and flendcr ; the eari
The
nine inches in length, and tour in breadth.
colour of iti coal in Winter is greyilh, in Summer
male
elk'ztt
ihort
The
horns
of
the
it IS paler.
kii-d.

It

.

Hill.

Ei.L. H.f. [eln, Saxon.]

two hundred (//
Addiftn.

2. It is taken proverbially for a long
fure,
.^cquit thee brave'y, play the man
I.onk nor on pleafuret as they come, but go

Vol. L

mea-

French.]

\eloge,

Praife;

Buckingham lay under millions of maledii!>iorj,
which at the prince's arrival did vaniih into praifes
l^otton.
and elogit s.
If I durft fay alt I know of the elegies received
concerning him, I Ihould offend the modefty of our
ISoylc.

author.

Some excellent perfons, above my approbation or
elegy i have conlidered this fubjedt-.
Holder's Elements of Speech,

T^E'loigne. nj.a.
put at a diftance

;

[ir/o/f/z^r, French.]

To

to remove one far from

Now

another.
difufed.
From worldly care himfelf he did e/o/w,
And greatly Dunned manly exercife. Fairy ^tteeit.
I'll tell thee now, dear love
what thou thalt d»
1

To anger dertiny, as Ihe doth us
How I fliall flay though Ihe eloigne me thus.
And how pofterity Ihall know it too.

Donne.

To E'LONGATK. 'V. a. [from longus, Latin.]

To lengthen; to draw Out; to protraft ;
to ftretch.
J. To put further off.
The rirft rtar of Aries, in the time of Meton the
I.

was

placed in

very

the

inttrfeflion,

diftance from any thing.
About Cape Frio in Brafilia, the South point of
the compafs varieih twelve degrees unto the Wcftj
but elongating from the coart of Brafilia, towards
the (liorc of Africa,

Eloco'tIok. '»,/.

[eloctttio,

Latin.]

it

varieth eaflwaril.

Brown's Vulgar Errours.

Elonca'tion. »./. [from elongate.']
1. The aft of ftretching or lengthening itfelf.

To this motion of elongation of the fibres is
owing the union or conglutination of the parts of the
body, when they are fcparatcd by a wound.
Arbuthnot on Aliments,

The ftate of being ftretched.

2.

[In rnedicinc.]

3.

An iniperfeft luxation,

when the ligament of any joint is fo ex.
tendedor relaxed as to lenghten the limb,
but yet not let the bone go quite out of
Sluinry,

its place.
Elonf.ations arc the cflfcft of an

humour Ibaking

upon a ligament, thereby making it liable to bo
fttetched, and to be thtuft quite out upon every
IVi/tman's Surgerv.

litdc force.

4. Diftance ; fpace at which
diftant frorn another.

one thing it

The dirtant points in the celeftial expanfe appear
to the

eye in fo fmall a degree of e otigation from

another, as bears no proportion to what i> real.
Clan ville 's Scepfs,

to fupport vines, to which

Thou art an i/ot, my hulhand ; I a vine,
Wl.ofe wcikncfi married to thy llrongcr ftatc,
Makc> me with thy Itrc.igth to communicitc.
Sbjktfftare.

Rais'd o'er the hcapy wreath, the branchiner/i
Lies fiumb'ringfilent in the white abyft.
T'bom/t.n.

^f. the piL:ce.

was ufeJ

the poets alhuie.

And, fcarce his head

pieces of linen cloih, reckoning

V.J.
panegyrick.

invite the rook, wlio ht8:h amid' the boughs.
'tbcmpn.
In early Spring Hii airy city build .

r

1. A meafure containing forty-five inches,
or a yard and a quarter.
Tli»/ arc fald to mjke yearly forty thoufind

E'logy.

may be trained up in form of an hedge,

Milltn's Par. LoJI.

edges.

Dryden.

with (locution.

rows upon the borders of the fields,
where they will thrive better thnn when

Saxon.]

by degrees enpands
into a great breadlii, with fcveral prominences in its

it

;

witch hazel, orbroad-leaved elm, by fome
called the Briti(h elm; the fmooth-leaved
Neither of them were
or witch elm.
originally natives of this country ; but
they have propagated themfelvcs by feeds
and fuckers in fuch plenty as hardly to
be rooted out ; efpecially in hedgerows,
where there is harbour for their roots.
They are very proper to place in hedge-

or invigorating fubftancc.

and thick near the head, where

Dryden,

with noble
more to exprefs thofe thoughts

much

thoughts, fo

ligniHcant,

.

What wonder then, if fields and regions here
[a;lc,

in apt,

is

South.

Kreathe forth elixir pure !

diftion 5

art ef cloathing or adorning that

have endeavoured to adorn

1

Athenian,

Inghcft ijuinteflcnce and elixir of worldly delight.

Elk. »./.

<5r

Elm. k./. [ulmns, Latin; elm, Saxon.]
which now eltnguied and moved eallward twentyei^!it degrees.
Ih-o'wn.
The name of a tree. The fpcties are,
the To Klo'ngate. v. n.
To go off to a
rough-leaved elm
the common

gularly, the inferiour paflions and affections following, there arifes a lerenity infinitely beyond the

;

J

oval.

going iranfverlcly from fide to IrJe.
Cheyne's Phil. Prin.

Dinne.
Some oderiferout thing, ormeJicinal,
of nny thing.
3. The extraft or quintcffence
In the foul, when the fupreme faculties move re-

Any cordial

Hav-

ing the form of an el-

Chtyne\ PMI. Prin.
the orbits elliftici.
In animals, that gather food trom the ground,
the pupil is oval or f/Z/pf/ca/; the grcatelk diameter

But gloritics his pregnant pat,
If by the way to him befal

if.

odj.. [from ellipfts.']

law for the paracentrical motion, that may make

aft of boiling or flewing any thing.
Even to ourfeives, and more perfcft animals, water performs no fubftantial nutrition ; fcrring for rcfrigeraiion, dilution of folid aliments, and its clixBn,'u:n.
aiiijt in ihellomach.

Reviv'd you like a dying flow'r.

. "1

Since the planets move in elliptick ottlts, in one
of whole foci the fun is, and by a radius from the
fun defcribe equal areas in equal times, which no
other law of a circulating fluid, but the harmonical
circulation, can account for ; we muft tind out a

ilifim of the air, whereby, if they mean any thing,
they ro^n a cutting or dividing, or elfe an attenuatiag of the air, is but a term of ignorance.

\elixut,

As

Beiitlry.

eccentrick.

The caufe given of found, that it would be an

»./.

Wilkins's Dxdalut.

the horizon.

The planets could not poflibly acquire fuch re-

Elli'ptick.

2. Divifion; feparation of parts.

Elixa'tiok.

[In geometry.] An oval figure, being
generated from the feftion of a cone, by
a plane cutting both fides of the cone,
but not parallel to the bafe, which produces a circle, and meeting with the
Harris.
bafe when produced.

z.

preferablenefs.

tiamntond.

18^

iv^

Ehmina'tion. ff./. [elimina, Lal'm.] The

1.

eloculion^ or the

thought fo found, and varied,
and founding words.

:

Certainty, in a deep dillrcfs, is more eligible than

expreflion

eloquence; beauty of words.
The tliird happinefs of his (oet's imagination i»

ELLIPSIS, v.f. [jAAfiirm?.]

Sn-ift.

,

The power of

3.

Herbert.

5.

Departure ; rcmov.nl.
Nor then had

it

been placed in a middle point,,

but that of defcent, or elongation.

Brown's Vulgar Errours,

To ELOTE. -v. a. [loifen, to run, Dutch.]
To run away to break loofe; to efcapc
;

The power of fluent fpecch.

1.

A travelled do^or of j-hyfick, of lold, and of able
H'otton.

elocution.

1.

Power of fpe.ik ing

;

fpecch.

Whofe lafte, ton long lorhr>rne, atfirftefliiy
Gave ilocuti'./i to (he mure, and taught
1 lie tongue not nude for fpeeth to fpeaW thy praife.
Milttn.

from law or rcftraint.
It is neceflary to treat women as members of the
body

politick,

fince great

numbers of them have

Addihr.'s Frwholder,
elofrd fiom llieir allegiance.
What from the dame can Paris hope ?
Ptior.
She may as well from him elope.

The fool whole wife <•/»/''' '°"" thrice a quarter,
Fi,r matrimonial folace dies a

4 P

martyr.

Pope.

Elo'i'EMi; »T.

ELS
Elo'pement.

De-

elope."]

2.

parture from juft reftraint; rejedion of
lawful piwer: coraraonly ufedofawife.

An fl'rprmnti is the voluBtary departure of a wife

of his principle, was undone by his wife's tlofenuni from him.
Ariuihnot.

Scorpion and afp, and amphitbena dire
Ceraftes horn'd, hydrus, and tloks drear.

And dipfas.

.

To Elu'cidate.

To explain

[elojuentia, Latin.]

The power of fpeaking with fluency and
elegance ; oratory.

1.

;

Action is tloouexce, and the eyes of the ignorant
More learned tnan the ears.
Shakefp^ Coiioia.ius.
Athens or free Rome, where etoqiuuce
Tlourifli'd, fince mute.
Millon.
His infant foftnefs pleads a milder doom.
And fpeaks with all the eloquenct of tears.
He'rgh.
2. Elegant language uttered with fluency.
Say (he be mute, and will not fpeak a word ;

Then I'll commend her volubility.
And fay flie uttered piercing eloquenet.

E'toquENT. adj.

We

Elucida'tor. n.f.

6fty, and the honourable man, and the counfellor,
and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.

Ifiiah iii. J.
death
all eloquent, you only prove
What dull we dote on, when 'tis man we love. Pope.

O

!

Else, pronoun. \t\\ty, Saxon.] Other;
one beCdes it is applied both to perfons
and things.
To Hand ftained with travel, and fweating with
:

defire to fee him j thinking of nothing elfe, putting
all affairs elfe in oblivion,

as if

there were nothing

Shakeff. Hinry IV.
Should he or anyr^fearch, he will Hnd evidence

elfe to be done but to fee him.

Hate't Origin of Mankind.

of the Divine Wifdom.

Denham.

To ELU'DE. -v. a.

.

to avoid any
;
mifchief or danger by artifice.
Several pernicious vices, notorious among us,

efcape or elude the punilhment of any law yet invented.
Stvift.

He who looks no higher for the motives of h is
conduft than the refentments of humjn juftice,
whenever he can prcfume himfcif cunning enough to
elude, rich enough to bribe, or ftrong enough to refill it,

2.

This faulchion, elfe, not hitherto withftood,
Thefe hoftile fields Ihall fatten with thy blood.

Dry den.

What ways are there whereby we Ihould be afbut either by an internal imprelTion of the
Dotion of a Cod upon our minds, or elfe by fucli
external and vifible elieds as our reafon tells us mult
Tillolfon.
be attributed to fome caufe ?
fiired,

2. Befide ; except that mentioned.
Fleafures which no where elfe were to be founii,

And all Elyfium in a fpot of ground.

od-v.

has foraetimesor before

Dryden.
it fiiperflu-

Fairy el-ves

Whofe midnight revels by fome foreft (iJe,
Or fountain, fome belated peafant fees.

Pepe,

E'lvelock. ». /. [from elves and loci.]
Knots in the hair fuperftitioufly fuppofed
to be tangled by the fairies.
From the like might proceed

the fears of polling
elvelacks, or complicated hairs of the head.
Brotun's yulgar Errours.

Be more abftemious.
Or elfe, good night your vow.

E'lsewhere. ad'u.
I,

Shakefp.

[elfe ai\A •where.]

In any other place.

Therrare here divers trees, which ate not to1>e
fo md elfenhere.
Abbot 't Defcrip. of the World,
.^s he proved that Pifon was not Ganges, or Ge>on, Nilus ; fo where to find them elfewhere he
Raleigh'i Hifl.
knew not.
For, if we chance to fix our thoughts elfrwheie,
ThoJgh our eyes open be, we cannot fee. Davits,
Henceforth oracles are ceas'd.

And thou no more with pomp and facrilice
Shalt be enqnir'J at Dilphos, otilfe^bere. Millon,
Although fcafoncd bodies may and d» live near as

Irrg

in London ai eljev/kere, yet

ti ildi:a do oau

new-comers and

Craiiiu't Billt oj Mtr.aliiy,

So (hould'll thou either turn my Hying foul.

Or 1 (hould breathe it fo into thy body.
And then it liv'd in (vial Elyfium, Stak, Hen. VI.
'Em.
contraction oi them.

a

For he could coin and counterfeit
New words with little or no wit
And when with hady noife he fpoke *ewr.

The ignorant for current took *em,

Thofe elz-ifh fecrets to unfold.

Which lie from others reading.

Drayton.

Ei.v'MBATt.D. adj. [elunibis. Lit.] WeakI>i<3.
ened in the loins.
Ei.u'sioN. n.y. [eltijta, Latin.] An efcape
from enquiry or examination ; a fraud ;

an artifice.

An appendix relating to the tranfmutation of metals, detefts the impoftures and .'/lyfcwa- of thofe who
ffcoJ-ivard's Nat. Hifl.
have pretended to it.

Elu'sive.

adj.

[from ehde.]

Praftififlg

elufion ; ufing arts to efcape.
i/jj/TiY of the bridal day, (he gives

Pofld liopes

W aJl, aoiall wiih hopes il.ceivej. Pope.

-.•.

«..

Hudibras..

[emacio,

Latin.j

To Vafte ; to deprive of flefli.
Men after long emaciating diets wax plump, fat,
Bacon.
and almoll new.
All dying of the confumption, die emaciated and
GraunI' s Bills of Morlality,
lean.

ToEma'ciate. 'V. n.

To lofe flefli;

to

pine ; to grow lean.

He emaciated and pined away in the too anxious
enquiry of the fea's reciprocation, although nor
drowned therein.

Brcetvn.

Emacta'tion. n.f, [emaciatut, I^atin,]
1. The aft of making lean.
2. The ftate of one grown lean.
Searchers cannot tell whether this emaciation or
leannefs were from a phthifis, or from a hedlick fe^
Gi-aunt.
vcr.

Emacula'tion. a./, [emaculo, Latin ]
The aft of freeing any thing from fpots
Difl,

or foulnefs.

E'manant. adj. [emanam, Lat.]

Ifluing

from fomething elfe.
The firft aft of the divine nature, relating to the
world, and his adminillration thereof, is an emanant
atl : the moll wife counfel and purpofe of Almighty God terminate in thofe two great tranfient
ox emanam .ifls or works, the work of creation and
Hale's Origin if Mankind.
providence.

rits.

Thou elviji markt, abortive, rioting hog
Shakefp.
The (lave of nature, and the fon of hell
No mufe hath been fo bold.
Or of the latter or the old,

Milton.

[Latin.]
The place affigned by the heathens to happy fouls
any place exquifitely pleafant.
To have thee with thy lips to Hop my mouth.

E'lvish. adj. [{mm el'vet, the plural ofc^:
it had been written more properly f^',^.]
Relating to elves, or wandering fpi-

1

oudy.

Rolls o'er clyfian flowers her amber llream.

ELY'SIUM. n,f.

PolhWe

[from </«</<.]

foft

;

Then, hid in Ihadcs, eludes her eager fwain ;
But feigns a laugh to fee me fearch around.
And by that laugh the willing fair is found.
Pope.
to be defeated.
There is not any common place more infilled on
than the happinefs of trials by juries; yet if this
blcifed part of our law be eludible by power and artifice, we Ihall have little reafon to boaft.
Swift.
Elves. The plural of <'^. See Elf.

Pertaining

delicioufly

and foothing exceedingly delightful.
The river of life, through midft of heaven.

Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain,

Elu'dibi.e.

pleafant;

ro EMA'CIATE.

!

3.

It

to Elyfium;

Rugas.

will be underno rellraint.

To mock by an unexpefted efcape.

Fays, fairies, genii, el-ues and demons hear.
'

Eiy'siAv. adj. [eljj^us, Lziin.]

[eludo, Latin,]

'

Dare not, on thy life.
Touch ought of mine bclide, by lot my due,
But ftand aloof, and think profane to view :

has been computed by fome ; but ^ill
fomething, and the alteration of one tenth of
its force upon the lungs mull produce fome dif&rence in elutriating the blood as it pafTes through the
lungs.
Arbutbnoi on Air.
it is

To efcape by ftratagem

Milton.
Or dreams he fees.
Ye fylphs and fylphids to your chief give ear ;

Otherwife.

1.

The prelfure of the air upon the lungs is muciv

Ex-

Abbot.

e/kcidatorj.

To

[elutrio, iM.]

a.

lefs than it

plainer; expofitor; commentator.
Obfcurity is brought over them by the courfe of
ignorance and age, and yet more by their pedantical

He fays, 'twas then with him, as now with you ;

He did it when he had nothing elfe to do.
Else. adv.

[itova elucidale.]

-v.

decant ; or ftrain out.

to clear ; to make plain.

(hall, in order to the elucidation of this matter,
fubjoin the following experiment.
Boyle.

Pope*s Od.

Hav-

To Elu'triate.

Latin,]

\elucido,

planation ; expofltion.

1 .

[elofuens, Latin.]

a.

they are but Parthian flights,

becaufe it is haitier to be cluied by the blood.
Arbutbnoi on Aliments.

Elucida'tion. »./. \itom eliuidate.] Ex-

Sbakijp.

ing the power of oratory; having the
power of fluent and elegant fpeech.
The Lord of hods doth take away the captain of

;

-r.

feared

To El u'te. -v. a. [eluo. Latin.] To walh off.
The more oily any fpirit is, the more pernicious ;

B^yle.

Fit words attended on his weighty fenfe,

And mild perfuafion flow'd in eloquence.

It may be

To elucidtte iXiltii the matter, let us confidcr it.

milloTi's Par. Liji.

E'loquence. n.f.

deceitful; fallacious.
ambufcade retreats, and elufory tergivcrfation.
Brc^'n's Vulgar Erroteru

Hooker.

Let us no more contend, nor blame
Alillon.
Each other, blam'd enough elfetvbere.
Bcftow, bafc man, thy idle threats elfevjbere
My mother's daughter know's not how to fear. Dryd.
If it contradiits what he fays elfewbere, it is no
new or ftrange hing.
Tillotfon.

Ayllffc't Parergon.
to the efficacy

Eltj'sort, adj. [hom elude.] Tending to
elude; tending to deceive ; fraudulent,

no competent judges where it is fit for the

minifter toftand.

The negligent huflund, tnifting

Elops. ». /. r?Ao\j/.] A fi(h; reckoned
however by Milton among the ferpents.

In other places ; in fome oth?r place.
They which etfembere comphin, that injury is
offered to the mcancli minifler, when the maginrate
appoinlcth him what to wear, think the gravelt
prelates

from her hulband to live with aii idullerer, and
with whom flic lives in breach of the malrimoni il
vow.

E M A

E L U

[from

». /.

ToE'ut^.nKTZ.'v. n. [emano, hsiiin.] To
ifliie or flow from fomething elfe.
E M A N a't 1 o N .; ». /. [emanatio, Latin ]
1. The aft of ifluing or proceeding from
any other fubftance.
Ariilotle faid, that it llreamed by connatural n.

fult

and emanation

from God,

the

infinite

eternal Mind, as the light ilTues from the fun.

2.

That which

ifl'uej

from

and.

Souib,

another fub-

ftance ; an efilux ; eflluvium.

The experience of thofe profitable and excellent
emanations from God, may be, and commoiily are,
Taylor,
the firtl motive of our love.
Another way of attradlion is delivered by a te-v
nuous emanation, or continued effluvium, which,
after fome dillance, rctratteth unto itfelf ; as in fyrups, oils, and vi cotities, which fpun, at length ue£' '""'"•
tirc into iheii iormcr dimenfioas.

Sueb

I

EM B

E M B
Sach vtn the features of her hcav'nly face

Her limSs were form'd with fuch harmonious grace
So tauitlefs wasthc frar*",
«

;

I,

as if the whole

1 he letters, cTcry judge will fee, were by no
xneana-edjrts of the genius, but emanations of the
heart.

P^fe.
'Each ntajtation of his fires

Having received the prebaMe mducements of
truth, »'c become emancifaitd from cellimonial en-

Brawn.

By the twelve tables, only thofe were called unto
the inieftateft:cceflion of their parents that were in
the parents power, excluded aU em-iKcipaud children.
Aylift'iParergon,
They tmanel^ted themTclves from dependence.
Arhuihnot.

a publick meffage.

to

With fear the raodeft matron lifts her eyes.

And to the bright embaffudrrfs replief

Tranilating the mart unto Calais, he emiarrd all

Garth's Ovid.

Bacon's Heny Vi I.

E'mbassage. »./. [It may be obferved,
E'mbassy.
/ that though our authoiirs

commerce 'twixt heaven and earth were not
Embar'd, and all this traffick quite forgot.
She, fur whofe \oh we have lamented thus.
Would work more fully and pow'rfullyon us. Donne.

"1

write almoft indifcriminately embaffador,
or ambaffador, emhaffage or ambaffage
;
yet there is fcarcely an example of ambafjy, all concurring to write embaffy.]
1 .
A publick meffage ; a meffage concerning

Embarka'tion. }:./. [iiova embark.]
The aifl of putting on fliipboard.
1

The French gentlemen were very folicitous for
the embarcalion of the army, and for the departure
of the

eet.

bufinefs between princes or ftates.

Clarendon,

Frelh embaffy and fuits.

_

2.

The aft of going on (hipboard.

Nor from the ftate nor private friends,

Emba'rco. ».y. [embargar, Spaiiilh.]-

He knew tliat the fubjefls of Flanders drew fo

ObQinacy in opinions holds the dogmatifl in the

commodity from the trade of England, as by
embargo they would foon wax weary of Perkm.

great

chains of error, without hope of emancifatian.
GIunviUe*s Scrpjis.

Bacon's Henry VU.

To caftrate

;

there did I'ucceed the aftion of fthcez.

was not much concerned, in my own particular,
for (htcmiargo which was laid upon it.
Diyd
I

When it is found how many ews, fuppofe twenty,

1.

one ram will fervc, we may geld nineteen, or ihetcabouts; for if you fira/iWjri' but ten, you (hall, by

,

.

a good fleet, and had
caufed a body of three thoufand foot to be embarked
on thofe rtiips,
Clarendtn.

2. To effeminate ; to weaken ; to vitiate by

unmanly foftnefs.

Collier.

Emascula'tion. n.f. [from emafculate.\

fences,

To Emba'lm. f. a.

[tmbaumer, French;
emial/amer, Spanilh.J To impregnate a
body with aromaticks, that it may refill
putrefaflion.

to diftrefi ; to entangle.
1 faw my friend a little emtarrajid, and turned
_*"'>•,
Sf"^Emba rrassment. »./. [from embarra/s.]
Perplexity ; entanglement.
\m your method be plain, that your hearers may

1.

Then lay me forth ; although unqueeo'il, yet like

:

To vitiate; to depauperate ;
to deprave ; to impair.

Ki fpice doth bodies from corrupt ait's touch.

Dmne.
Mute \ at that name ihy facred forrows (hed ;

Thofe tears eternal that emhztm the dead.

mifl/r/flexiblenefs (lull be forced to bend.

^ing Charles.

Popt.

A plf afure high, rational, and angelical

[from <'«W«.] One
that praftifes the art of embalming and
r.

good emlialmeri aa the

bacon't Inatural HiJIory.

a plci-

no appendant fling j but fuch a
being honey in the mouth, never turns to

gall or gravel in the belly.

was u'lerly cmfumcd.

;

fure tmbaj'ed with

one as
2

To degrade

:

Streams arm'd with rocks, and mountains red with
lire.

In vain againft his force confpire.

To Emba'ttle. -v. tt.

Prior.

To be ranged in

battle array.

The night
Is Ihmy,

and they fay we (hall embattle
By the fecond hour of the morn.
Shakefpeare.

To Emba'v, v. a, [from baigner, to bathe,
1

French.]
To bathe ; to wet ; to wa(h.

Not ufed.

His cruel fport;
For in her ftrcaming blood he i'\i em'
ay
His little hands, and tender joints embrew. Fairy SK
Every fenfe the humour fwcet embay'd.
And, (lumb'ring folt, my heart did (leal away.
Fairy S^ueen.

to lower;

labour,

Preferve frail tran(itory fame as much

Milton's Par. Lofl.

!

Embattl'd nations ftrive in vain

1

rhymes,

Shakef^

In her lap a little babe did play

have no fcrvice or ignoble end in my prcfent
which may, on cither (ide, reftrain or em.
ia/t (he freedom of my poor judgment.
IVotion.
will rather chufe to wear a crown of thorns,
1
than to exchange that of gold for one of lead, whofe

Verfe cmbalmt virtue, and tombs or thrones of

which now are too ttrongly embattled againft

The hero's glory to reftrain

Grains are annual, fo that the virtue of the feed
is not worn out ; whereas in
a tree it is emia/ed by
the ground.
Bacon.

S&aiejpeare,

would (hew future times

What you were, and ttach them t'urge towards fuch

To

you gallant princes, ftraight to horfe \Shak.

;

run through it witliout emiarraj'meni, and take a
clear view of the » hole.
IVaits's Logiii.

A f ueen, and <iaui;hler to a king, inter me.

I

And overwhelm the war

(hould with (jpeed embark.

ToEmba'se. -v. a. [from ba/e.]

Embalm me.

Shakef. Rich. It.

.>

On their fmiar//'rf ranks the waves return.

7b EMBA'RRASS. -v. a. [embarajer, Fr.]

Fairy Sluttn.

know it

me.

And with their embaffy return to Greece.
A. Phillift.
;
2. Te engage in any affair.

To perplex

laft that

I could drive her fron»the ward of her reputation,
her marriage-vow, and a thoufand other her de-

_

manly foftnefs.
7oEmbj.'le. -v. a. {embalhr, French.]
1. To make up into a bundle.
2. To bind up ; to inclofe.
Below her ham her weed did fomewhat train.
And her ftraight legs mod bravely were emhal'd

fo

Tohorfe

To engage another in any affair.

I

un-

qualities;

I

range in order or array of battle.
The Englifti are w/j/ar/Zfif;

To Emba'rk nj. 71.
1. To go on (hipboard.

1. Caftration.

Egyp'.iaiis, fo the body

;

And am

To Emba'ttle. -v. a. [from battle]

Dryden'i Mn.

2.

embaffage among the ladies, that one might
If a live bird,
how taught? If dead, how

made ?
Sidney.
Nimble mifchance, that art fo light of foot,
Doth not thy embaffage belong to me

Emiait'd his men, and (kim'd along the fea.

Dryd.

Dangerous principles impofe upon our underftaiidings, cmjfckUtc our fpirits, and fpeil our temper.

prefcrving bodies.
The komans were not

fay.

Straight to the (hips JEntis took his way,

From wars and from affairs of (late abftain

Women tmafculalt a monarch's reign.

n.

A bird was made fly with fuch art to carry a writ-

Milton.

.

The kmg had provided

An errand in an ironical fenfe.
ten

[embarjuer, Attach.]
To put on Ihipboard.
Of mankind, fo numerous late,
._,

Craunt.

Ingolden bufkini of coftly cordwain.

Taylor.
3.

All left, in one fmall bottom fwam embark' d.

promifcuous copulatioo, binder the incrcafc.

womani(h

He fends the angels on embtjjics with his decrees.

ToEmda'rk. <r. a.

to deprive of virility.

2. Effeminacy;

If'ottun.

Any folemn meffage.

2.

After an embargo al oat trading (hips in the livcr
ofBourdeaux, and other-points of foverei^ affront,

Ta Ema'kcinate. v. a. [marfo, Latin.]
To take away the margin or edge of any
thing.
Dia.
To Ema'sculate. -v. a. [ema/cuk, Latin.]

hereafter.

Will I lend ear to.
Shukeff. Coriolanut.
When he was atNewcaftle he fent a folemn emiaffagc nnlo ]imei king of Scotland, to treat Snd
conclude a peace with him.
Bacon's Henry VU.
The peace polluted thus, a chofen band.
He firll commilhons to the Latian land.
In threat'ning embaffy.
Dryden's j^».

A

prohibition to pafs ; in commerce, a ftop
put to trade.

flavery.

Emba'lmbii.

by prohibition ;

Dryden.

A woman fcnt oa

Emba'ssadress. tt.f.
F.iirjjx,

I f this

;

I

to hinder

;

.

Denham.

Myfelf, the king's emb.jffador, will go.

Sfenfir.

further trade for the future.

Emancipa'tion. n, f, [from emancipate.^
The aft of fetting free deliverance from

1

Mighty Jove's embaffador appear'd

block up.

reftore to libertjr.

*

With the fame meffage.

To ftop

2.

E»ia'nativ£. adj. [from emano, Latin.]
Ifluing from another.
Dia.
7« EMA'NCIPATE. -v. a. {emancipo, Utin.]
To fet free from fervitude; to

gagements.

One fent on a publick meffage.

Where faft embai'd in mighty brazen wall.
He has them now four years belieg'd to make them
In form of airy members fair enthar^d
His fpirits pure were fubjeft to our light.

Pope,

Emba'ssador. n.f. [See Ambassadour.]

He forc'd to caftlc (Irong to take their flight j
thrall.

That beams on earth, each virtue he infpires
Each art he prompts, each charm he can create;
Whate'er he gives, are giv'n for you to hate.

lofhut; to enclofe.
Thcmfelves for fear into his jaws to fall.

Dryd.

Had been an eiruinafitn of the foul.

E M B
Rut then the more your own milhap I rue,
That are fo much by fomean love embas'd. Sfenfir.

To EmbaHi. <u, a. [from bar.]

;
to vilify.
Joy of my life, full oft for loving you
I bkls my lot, that was fo lutky pUc'ii

Hoiub.

2.

\yxombay.]

To inclofe in a bay

;

to

land lock.
If that the Turkilh fleet

Be not indieltcr'd ViAembay'd, they're drown 'd.
Shakefp.

To EMBE'LLISH. -v. a.

To dorn

ornaments

{ernhellir, French;]
beautify ; to grace with
to decorate.

to

;
;

How mucli more beauteous had the fountain heeni
F.mbeliijh'd with herfirft created green

;

Where cryllal ((reams through living turf had run.
Contented with an urn ofjiative (tone. Dryd. Jim.
The names of the tijurcs that embcl'iifhed the
difcouifcs
4 P z

isg, jre ROI the art aod Ikill ot fpeakiag well. lUcke.
That which was once the moll beauti(ul fpot of

tmbtU'ijlrd by emjieand celebrated by poets, hjj n-^iv noihinp to
AJdiJin on IrJy^
Slew but ruin*.

2.

Our (lirinrs Irradiate, or emtiaxt the Hoors. Topf
To blazon; to paint with cnfigns armO'

Italy, covered with palaces,
rorsi

Embi.'llishmi:nt. n. /. [hottttmbtlLi/b.]
Ornament; adventitious hcauty ; decora
tion ; adfcititious grace ; any thing that
confers the. power of plcafing.
Cultivate the wild licentious Tivaje
With wifdoin, difcipline, and libera! .-.rf«.
AJUij-.n's
The fmirlHJhmerits of li(e.

Cm.

Apparitions, vifions, andiiitercourfesot all kiudj

k("«Ten the dead an;! the iivi:if, aie riie frequent
and lamiliar tmbtUiJknur.u of the Ugei.-ls oi the

Aufrbwj.

Romilh chureh.

Nor (hall this bloodbe wiped from this point,
But thou (halt wear it as a herald's coat,
T\m6/tix^ the honour which lliy mallcrgot. Shak.
He from the glittering llaft* cufurl'd
Th' iuipctialcnlign, ilreaming to the wind.
With gems and golden lullie rich entiiasi'd^
Senphick arm, and trophies.
Mi/ion's P^ir, Lcjl.
71) Embla'zon. 'v./j. [blafonner, French.]
1. To adorn with figures of heraldry ; to
grace with cnfigns armorial.
2. 'l"o deck in glaring colours ; to fet out
pompoiifly to (hew.

We linJ Auguilus, for fomc petty conqueil, cmblaaantd by the poets to the highcfl pitch.
tiuknvlii on Prtjniidettce.

word ufed by old authours, no-*^ obfolete.

Embla'zonry. n.f. [it<im emblazau.^

For Ciulcs good io many wajrs.
Keep etnt'iings well, and falling days
What law eeiTiTninds, wc ou|ht to obey.
For Friday, Saturn, and Wedneiaiy.

Him rot:nd

TitJJer.

:

the bottle be well flopped, leil it fly out; and continue it, renewing the Hitirrs every day for the fpace
buon'i Sat.lVJI.
of ttrt days.
If the air will not permit.

Some llill removed place will (it,
Wh;lc glowing ^ffiiifj through the room
Mllttm.
Teach light to counterfeit a gloom.
While thus heaven's hijhcll counfels, by the low

E'MBLEM. ;/./.

aftion, being all head and paws.

that of opinions.

who de-

from jmiren or embren, a (ourje or
tiraimlocution.^
A week in which an
ember day falls.
The ember days at the four fcafons are the WeJrives it

nefdav, Friday, and Saturday alter ihe ftrll Sunday
in Lent, the fcaft of Pentecoft, September i.), DeCommort Prayer,
cember 13.
Stated times appointed for falling are Lent, and
the iiour feafbns of the year called rnilniveeis.
flyliffe'i Partrgon.

To EMBEZZLE, v. a. [This word fcems
from imbecil.\
;

to'

turn what is intruded in his hands to his

own ufe.

EmBLEMa'tICAL. 7
Emblema'tick. 3

Ha\^\

•-

Milloit.

his brals-plated body to emb'.fs.

purely tmblcmalical, or

Fairy ShteeH.

{embofcare,

^.

thicket.
Like that felf-begotten bird
Milian's Agoaijles,

In th' .\rabian woods emboj},

To hunt hard.

5,

When a deer

and foams at the
when he
upon hard
ground, will have his knees fwcUcd, and then he is
faid to be emboft, from bojje, Ficach, a tumour.
hard run,

is

mouth, he is faid to be embojl'.
is

^

a dog alfo,

ftrained with hard running, cfpccially

Hanmer,

Than Telamoii for his fliield

Prior,

By tongue and pudding to our friends explain

What docs sovs emhUmutick worlhip mean. Prior.
EmblemA'TICai.lv. adi'. [from emblematical.\
In the manner of emblems; allufively; with occult reprefentation.
Others have fpoken emblematieally and hieroand the phcenix was
Bitvti's Fiilg, Er.
the hitrof liphick of the lun.
He look a great ilonc, and put it up unUer tbc
oak, emblematicoliy joining the two great elements
of malonry.
Sivifr.

gliphica'ly, as to the Kgyptians ;

Emble'matist. »./. [from emblem.'^ Writers or invcnters of emblems.
Thefe tables aie Hill maintained by fymbolical
writers, emblema/ijls, and hculds. Brown*s Vu/. Er.

:

you

fhall lee

to-night.

hi*

Sbakeffcare,

Embo'ssment. ti.f. [from ^OTiia/f.]
i^ny thing Handing out froiB the
jut ; eminence.

I.

icfl

1 wiili alfo,
in the very middle, a fair mount,
with three afcents and alleys, enough for four to
walk a-bi-c.tU ; which i would have to be perrcct
circles, without any bulwaiki or «««^y/»<i"'r.
Bacon's EJfays,

z.

rifing work.
lot's
about the word pendents
fome fancy it exprclfcs only the great embejfment of
the figure, others believe it hung oif the helmet in
alto relievo.
AJdifon on hah.

Relief;

They are at a

To b.MB'orTLE.

-v.

a.

To include in bottles

\houtalle,
;

French.]

to bottle.

Stirom, lirmcil fruit
Kmbotiled, long as Triametn Troy
Withitooil the Greeks' endures

Fbilifs,

[from loixiel.\
To
to deprive of the entrails ; to

To EMiio'wiiL. -v. a.
evifceriite;

exentrate.

E'mbolisM. ri.J. [•/i«;ii(rj«.»<.J
Intercalation ; infcrtion of days or years

produce regularity and equation

Sbakejpeare,

We have almoll embofl him

when the perlbns aie alleAddiJ'^n,

the boar of ThelTaly

;

Was ue\xr fo embofi,
fall

Dealing in emblems; ufing emblems.

I.

To inclofe in a

Italian.]

Oh, he is more mad

gorical.

2.

Sfenfer,

And in the way, as (he did weep and wail,

A knight her met, in mighty arms embtfs'd.

1

of

time.

with (lark, that ihey below

Would jrow inux'd » lijht.

111

allufive; occult-

pafs.

to

I'K' unlbu^htdiamonds

Ana

'

77

.

Would fo tmblnv-c the forehead of the deep.
lu bcftud

rr

The poets contribute to the explication of rcveil'es

which is received in trnit for another.
2. Thrifiing appropriated.

I0 K M B a'z E -v, a, [hlafanHer, French. ]
I. To adorn with glittering embellilhmcnts.

,.

Where gates fhould open, or where walls (h<iUld com-

The aft of appropriating to himfcif that

I.

box.] To inclofe; to include; to cover.
The knight his thrilliant fpear again alTay'd

rife,

Diyden't P/rf.

Embezzlement, n.f. \itOTaembex.xJe.'\
1.

DryJ. yirg.

[from emho'ijler, French, to inclofe in a

3.

In the well fram'd models.
With embiematicit Ikill and myllick order.
Thou Ihew'dll where low'i-s on battlements fhould

When thou haft emtixil'd ail thy (lore,
Where's all thy father left i

Then o'er rhc lofty gate his art embofs'd.
Aiidrngeo's death, and oA'riags Co his ghod.

ly reprcfentative.

to fwallow up in riot.

;

7'o engrave with relief, or rifing work.

2.

GlunvilU^s See/Jis,

Comprifing an emblem;

1.

He had tmhex.Tdtd \\\t king's treafure, and ex-

To waftc

St^iikef. Kiftg Lear,
In my corrupted blood.
Botches and blaiiis mufl all his flelh embo/s.
Milton's I'm. Lift,
And all his people.
All crowd in heaps, as at a night-alarm
The bees drive out upon each other's backs,
T' ^rtf^o/> their hives inclutlers. Dryd, Don. Sehaft,

To

The primitive fight oF elements doth fitly emblem

corrupted by an ignorant pronunciation

torted money by way of loan (rom all men.

bunches.
Timon hath made hiseverlafting manfiaa
Upon the beached verge of the fait flood ;
Which once a-day, with his emioj/'ed froth.
Sbake/f, Timon,
The turbulent furge ihall cover.
Thou an a bilr,

rcprefent in an occult or illufive manner.

:

2.

Addifon's Gttard.

7a E'mbi, LM. v. a. [from the noun]

To appropriate by breach of trnft

To form with protuberances; to cover
with fomething rlfiug into lumps or

He is indeed a froper emblem of knowledge and

derive it from embtn or a(hes ftrewed by
•penitents on their heads; but Nelfon de-

Arimbnol.

rance, French.]
1.

Peacbtmi on Draiuing.
Gentle Thames,
Thy mighty mailer's emblem, in whofe face
Sate meeknels, hcighten'd ^'ith majetlick grace.

Notufed.

refembhng blood*
by an emiol:it,

To EMBOSS. 17. a. [from taj/i, a protube-

landfcape of the country natural to the beall.

E'mberweek. *./. [The original of" this
word has been much controverted foine

in which a chemical liquor

driven through claftic channels
like the heart.

is

[I,«,C>>,,.*.a,J

She hr.d all the royal makings of a queen.
The rod, and bird of peace, and all fuch cmbltmi^
Laid noble on her.
^haiifp. HemyVlW.
If you uraw your bead in an entblt'mf Ihcw a

Dryitn'i Virgil.

1.

Our members make a fort of an hydraulick engine,

Milton.

Inlay ; enamel ; ;iny thing inferted into
the body of another.
2. An occult rcprefentation ;
an illufive
pifture ; a typical defignation.

as holy zealinfpires;

Any thing in-

['iiiCoAe?.]

in a pump.

Denbam.

He ralcei hot na^r^, and renews the lires.

n.f.

ferted and afting in another, as the fucker

1.

Crjjbavi.

cides it in favour oi Marcjihal,

E'mbolus.

intercalatory time.

A plague fore, or embcj/ed carbuncle.

With bright emhlasMtry'iai horrent arms,

Now with new rage, and wax too hot for hell.
Hefaid, and rofe,

The time inferted;

>.

A globe of fiery feraphim inclos'd

Footlleps of their effedls, hetrac'd too well.
He tofs'd his troubl'd eyes, cmlitri that glow

"

Pic-

tures upon (hiclds.

E'mbers.'«./. without a fingular [zmyjiia,
iiaxon, afhes ; emmjria, Irtandick, hot
Hot cinders ; aQies
afties or cinders.]
not yet extinguilhed.
Take hot rmtcn, and put them about a bottle
let
filled with new beer, almoll to the very rteck

Holder on Time*

as even as they could.

rial.

A

The ember days.

fun'i reir, bot in divers falhions ; and fome follow,
ing the moon, finding out embolifmt or equations,
even to the addition of whole months, or to make all

Ko weeping orphan faw his father'} ftotN

iifeourfei of thofc ihal underftonJ the art ef fr«V-

Fmberinc. ». /.

E M B

E M B

E M B

The civil conftitutior.i of the year were after
diS'crcutmanneriBlevtra) nations; fomc i:Gn£ tbc

The fchools,
Embotvelled «f their dodlrine, have left off
The danger to itl'vlt.
Hbaiieffejrt,
Emh-j-weiied will I fee ihcc by and by ;
'Till iheu, 10 blood, by n«Uk Percy lye.
^kakeff. lUnrjW

Th«

EM B

E M B

The roar
ImicVKl/'Jvrith outrageous noife the aif,

MiUon's Par. Loft.
Foflilf and minerals chat th' emtu'weil'dcir h

Di'plavs.

Ta Embra've.

To EMBRA'CE. -v. a. [embraffer, French,]
to fqueeze

;

To feize ardently or eagerly

to lay hold

;

And you embrace th' occafion to depart.

1

Atfirft, her mother earth ihe holdeth dear.

:

4.

To comprife; to inclofe;
to encompfs ; to encircle.

We

to contain;

to receive.
Fenton, Heav'n give the^ joy!
What cannot be efcbew'd, mull be embraced. Shalt.
If a man can be affured of any thing, without
having examined, what is there that he may not
imirace for truth ?
Locke.

6.

To find

;

;

Blue iilk and purple, the work of the embroiderer.

S. An hoftile fqueeze; crudi.

Shakefp.
Laces and embroideries are more coftly than either

warm or comely.

i;j

2. rlotTile hug ; grapple.
Thefe beat*!, fighting with any man, ftand
upon
Iheir hinder ictt, and fo this did,
being readylo

give me a fhrewd cmbraccment.
Sidney
3. Comprehenfion.
Nor can her wide f«^r«f»f«« filled be.
Datues.

And tumult and confufion, all embrotl'd.
And difcord with a thoufand various mouths.
When (lie found her venom fprcad fo far.
The royal lioith embtail'd in civil war,
Kais'd on her dulky wings Ihc cleaves the

9.

;

Sbak Cori.la
\itoai embrace.]
The

rough emerald is ufually of a very bright and naturally polilhed fui1.ice,.and is ever of a pure
and
beautiful green,. without the admixture of any other
colour.
The oriental emerald is of the h ird'nefs of
the fapphire and ruby, and is fecond only to the diamond in lurtreand btightnefs.
Hill on Fnjils.
Do you not fee the grafs how in colour tliey excel.
?
the emerald
Sidney.
The emerald is a bright grafs green it is touod

though of a
and legend,

In the following paffage the word fecras
iinpropcrly ufed for broil or burn.
'hat knowledge, for which we boldly attempt

to

God's cabinet, (hould, like the coal from the
aliar, fe ve only
to tmbroll kA conCumc the facririfle

legious invaders.

roEMh'RGli. -J. n. [emergo. Lat.]

To rife out of any thing in which' it ii.
covered.
y\\f] cmtrgfd,Ao the upper part of the fpirit of
much of them as lay immerfed in the

wine, as

Addif'jn on It.ity.
3.

:

IP'oodavard on Fojftls^
Nor deeper verdure dies the robe of Spring,
When hi ft (he gives it to the fouthern gale.
Than thegrecn emerald ihovis. Ttiooijm'a Summer.

Ikies.

that one receives but little fatisladlion.

.

\emerttude,Yrcnch; /ma-

cient fmaragdus ; and, in its moll perfect llatc, is
perhaps the moll bc.iutifiil of .ill the gems.
The

1.

'"'""*''"' ^"'i'l"i"fs at Rnme,
frclhcr date, are fo fmir«i/r,/ with fable

n. f.

ragdm, Lat.]
A green precious ftone.
The wwcra/i/ is evidently the fame with tlie an-

Mill.

to entangle.

li.^'

his

\tmhrafmrt, French.]

o perplex

I

altcrer for the

in filTurcs of rocks, along with copper ores.

Dryden.

5. Conjugal ende.irmcnt.

J.

E'meralD.

I had no pafTion, defign, or preparation
to embroil my kingdom in a civil war.
King Charles.
Rumour next, and chance.

flert,, die in the emirac<meni.o(
the paru hardly reparable, as
bones ner.es, and
membranes.
Bacon', NaturaHiiJi.ry

tf^^i^

^"f-

•

Special or. No 414.

rus, blood, and

Ytt are they the greattft embracer,
of pleafure
of any other upon C4r;h; aod ihcy
ellecm ot pearls
».,rbbles fo .hey may fatisfy the.r
guft, in poir.t
of pleat ;re or revenge.
f'cnge,

-

redor; an improver; an
better.

To Embro il. 1'. a. [broiiiller, French.]
l.Todifturb; to confufe; to diftraft; to
throw into commotion; to involve in
troubles by diflbnfion and difcord.

4. Stateof being contained ; inclofure.
The parts in man's body cifily reparable,
as fui-

1 wo.il,l freeher rejoice in .hat abfeiKe,
wherein
he won honour, than in the tmhracemcni,
of

criticifm.

Vartegation; diverfity of colours.
11 the natural embroidery of the meadows were
helpt and improved by an, a man
might make a
pretty lanJlkip of his own polfeflions.

Sidney

There cherifhlng one another with dear,
though
chafte embractmemu with fweet, tliough
cold kifies,
it might feem that Love was
come to play him'
there v^ithout darts.

ir

Gretu.

An alteration made in the text by verbal.

Emenoa'tor. n./. [emendo, Lat.] A cofi

Bacon s Advice to ViUiers.
Next thefe a youthful train their vows exprefs'd.

2.

beyond any emnd.tiion, for its aiilion "and
and Ihews it to proceed from a mind of the

highett underltaiiding.

2.

With feathen ctowu'd, with gay embroidery diefs'd.

1. Clafp in the arms ; hug; embrace.
Thus death becomes a rival to us all.
And hopes with foul cmbracemenit her to get,
In whofe decay virtue'* fair Ihiine mult fall.

Correction ; alteration of any thing from:
worfe to better.
The effciice and relation of any thing in beiii", It

ufcj

Buckled below lair knighthood's beudmg knee

Embra'cement. »./. \itom embrace.]

It,

1.

fitted,

Write,
em'rald tuffs, (low'rs purfled, blue and
while,
Likelapphire, pearl, in rich cmbroidtry.

Denham.

Capa-

Emenda'tion.//./. [emivdo, Lat.]

III

Thames, the moftlov'd of all the ocean's fons

EMBRA'SWRi.

Lat.]
ble of emendation ; corrigible.

fcMBRoi DERY. 7/./. [{tom embroider.]
I. Figures raifed upon a ground;
varie-

Sbahfp.

By his old lire, to \\\iembiacei runs.

perfon c-nbracing.

Eme'nuadle. fl(//. [<'/««yo,

that adorns clothes with needlework.

fond preffure in the arms ; hug.

bed, where ..e, would Ihcw ^.<A love.

One

Nov»

Whiirt they were young, Caffibelan their em?,.
Was by the people chofcn in their ftead ;
Who on him took the royal diadem,
^ Andgoodly well it long timegoverned.
Sperfer;

'

[embroider.]

Swifi.

Uncle.

obfolete.

Waller.

to

N

had then in i-mbryo.

Em E. K./. [eame, Saxon.]

gated needlework.

Embra'ce. a./, [from the verb.]

tMBRACER. n. f.

The company little fufpeded what a noble work

receive her lover,
but in a fuit of her own embroidering. Specl.
606.
EmbroiJer'd purple clothes the golden beds
This flave the floor, and that the table fpreads.

Embroi'derer. n. /.

To join in an em-

Thtmf.n's Spring.

7 he Ihite of any thing yet not fit for
I

H^oticn.

Po6e.

brace.
Let me embrace with old Vincentio
;
And wander we to fee tliy honeft fon.
Who wiU of thy arrival be full joyous.
I. Clafp ;

Within its crimlon folds.
2.

ther.

.

n.

Blackmare,
,

produftion ; yet unfinifhed.

Ofthatdarkhour.
Shakeff Mactelb.
7. To fqucere in a hoftile manner,

Te Embra'ce. "v.

,,,,.,

While the promis'd fruit
Lies vet a little embt >•<?, unperceiv'd

Such un accumulation of favours is like a kind
of embroidering, or lifting of one favour upon

Let no virgin be allowed

_

In that dark womb are the figns and
rudimmtt
oi^rxembryo world.
Burnn's Theory.
When thecrudc ^-m^rya careful nature breeds.
See how (he works, and how her work proceeds.

emnl-

tyifeman* s Surirerv.

Thatitbecame agardenofawood.

Fleance, his fon,

d
exclufion

Of waters, embryon immature iuvolv'd
Appear 'd nor.
Milton's Par. Lijl.

Embroidit'd fo with flowers it had ilood,

Whofe abfence is nolefs material (ome
Than is his father's, m.\A embrace the fate

bringing forth of living creatures
may be
il the embryo ripeiieth and
perfetleth

Broiuii'r Cnlgar Errours.

ano

to take.

the

1 he earth was form'd, but in the womb as yet

;

Dtnbam.

.

in

before conformation, before the
bear the name of tlie parent, or be
la
much as properly called an embryon.

To EMBROI'DE R, 1,. a. [broder. French.]
To border with ornaments to decorate
with figured work; to diverfify with
needlework; to adorn a ground with
raifed figures of needlework.

I.owat his fcctafpacious plain is plac'd.

To admit

„

^^

unfiaifhed

birth can

forts.

as, natural

Between Lhe mountain and tlie ftttam cmbrac'd.
{.

An

mjeman „n IxJLmm.

endeavoured to eafe by difcutient and
lient cataplafmj, and embrocations of various

philofophy embraces manyfcieuces,

yet

fooner.

returned her a glafs with oil of rofes and vine-

with medicinal liquours or fpirits.
2. The lotion with which any difeafed part
is waflied or embrocated.

Davies.
Thejr who are reprefented by the wife virgins,
embraced the profcflion of the Chriltian religion, as
the foolifli virgins alfo had done.
Tilhijan.

The offspring
womb.
The

tiMBROCA'TioN. »./. \ito<ai embrocate.
1. The aa of rubbing any part
difeafed

And doth emhruce the world, and worldly things.

To comprehend; to take in

.

Donne.

accelerated,

^ gar, to embiocne her arm.

Shakifp.

broJel.]

"•/• [«/*«;"*'•]

i'MBRYON. f

quours.

on ; to welcome ; to accept willingly any
thing offered.
I take it, your own buflnefs calls on you,

\brothcl,

Warle than "»iro/.6ir/'i/ ilrumpetspioltitutc.

To E'MBROCATE. 1;. a. {i^Z^iy^.
f^
.]
.J
rub any part difeafed with medicinal li-

Drydttt.

a.

Me:i, which chufe

The great earth's womb they open to the (ky.

Nor Itaio your country with her children's gore.

1;

Law praflice for mere gain, boldly repute,

And, with fad cyprefs, feemly it embia-ue

£mini« again, my fons! be foes no more;

3.

To

a. [from brirve.l

So, both agree their bodies to engrave;

in icindncfs.

2.

-v.

Embro'thel.

To inclofe in a brotheL

decorate; toembellifli; to deck; to grace;
to adorn.
N ot now in ufe.

Philips,

To hold fondly in the arms

T'o

the cannon is pointed ; battlement.

And all her entrails tore.

1 .

E M E

An aperture in the wall, through which

p^uy of Pieiy.

fpirir.

Eoyle.

The mountains entergedi and
again, when ihe waters retired.
Thetis, not unmindful

I

I

became dry fani
ISurnefs 'Theory,

hei fon,.

Emerging from lhe deep, to beg her boon,
Furfu'd their track.
Dryd. Horner^
2. To iflue
to proceed.
If llie pnfia vat turocdabout its i%U that way,.
;

E ME
which mide the ray» tmtrge more oMlnuely out of
the fecond refnding furfatc of the prifniithe image
ioon iKcame an inch or two longer, or more.

To rife; to mount

5,

Nfivim'i Ofticki.
from a ftate.of de-

preffion orobfcurity; to rife into view.

The lapidaries cut the orJinarjr gemi
the m<|net.
on their wheels by iprinkling the wetted powder
over tliem ; but it will not cut diamonds.
ufcful in cleaning andpolilhing Itcel.
kill's Mai.

EME'TICAL.Ifl^-. [.>!«]

EME'TICK.

Darknefs, we fee, emcrgei into light

And Ihiding funs defcend to fable night DrjJ. Fab.
When, from dewy Ihadc emerging bright,
Aurora llreaks the fky with orient light,
Let each deplore his dead.
Pofe's OiyJJ'iy,
Then from ancient gloom emert'i
'Ihimfon's Summer.
A rifing world.

T

t

In

has been complained of, that preparations of

have produced violent vomits; whereas we
have not obferved duly refined filver to work emetiBoyle.
calty, even in women and girls.

which it is corered.

We have read of a tyrant, ^vho tried to prevent Emica'tion. «./. \emicatio, Lat.]
the emergence of murdered bodies.

flying off

ling ;

brmun's Vulgar Errours.

gredients, is very well worth our attentive obfervaBoy/eon Colours,
tion.

in

Spark-

fmall particles, as

fprightly liquors.
Iron, in aqua fortis, wilt

fall Into

paflTages.

Gravel and (lone grind away the flelh, and efFufe
the blood apparent in a fanguine emiBion.
Harj'ey on Confumptions.

Em G R a't o N »./. [from emigrate.] Change

Rifing out of that which overwhelms or
obfcurcs it.
love made my emergent fortune once more look
Above the inain, which now Ihall hit the ftars.

1.

Eminency. J

Milton.

No, nor forth your window peep,
With your emfj/lay eye.

To fetch in the furms go by. Ben "Jonfon's Vnderv.',

2. Suinmit ; higheft part.
Mountains abound withdifierent vegetables, every
vertexor eminency affording new kinds.
Ray on the Creation.

A place where one is expofed to general

5.

Sovib.

WW.

occafion, they would mount their fervants upon their

Alterations are attributed to the powcrfulleft under princes, where tlic eminency of one obfcureth

Clarendon.

iufjicffctin ]

;

Eme'rsion. «. /. [from emerge.]
The
time when a ftar, naving been obfcured
by its tot) near approach to the fun, ap-

E'merv. »./. [fmyrii, Lat. e/meril, Fr.]
Emery is an

iron ore, confidcnbly rich.

them air.
AtTeflion, in the ftate of innocence,

pitched upon

right objeft; it flamed up in di-

redl fervours of devotion to God,
cmijjions of charity to its neighbour.

and in collateral
South.

To EMIT. 'V. a. [emitio, Lat.]
To fend forth ; to let go ; to give vent to.
I
.

Thefe baths continually emit a manifed and very
fome of them, at fome times,

Woodtvard' s Natural Hijlory,
The foil, being fruitfijl and rich, emits deams,
confidingofvolatile and aiSive parts. Arbutb. on Air.

To let fly

; to dart.
Pay facred rev'rencc to Apollo's fong,

1.

Till.it/on.

In eminence.

His fatal arrows.

Milton's Paradi/c hcJI.

A title given to cardinals,

Prior,

To iflue out juridically.

That a citation be valid, it ought to be decreed
and emitted by the judge's authority, and at the iiillance ot the party.

^yl'Jf'-

Emme'nacogues. n.J. [k'/i(.jt*))»i«and«viw ]

Notice; diftinftion.

i

I<ft, wrathful, the far-lhooting god emit

3.

Let your remembrance dill apply to Banquo
Prefent him eminence both with eye and tongnc.
8.

its

Evelyn,
was happily

fend forth an adlual and vifible flame.

And pure thou wert created, we enjoy

It is

found in the idand of Cucrnfey, in Tufcany, an(i
guiiy parts of Gernuny. It hat a oeu reUuou to

Brotim's Vulgar Errours.
Cover them with glalTesj but upon all warm and
benign emijions of the fun, and fweet (howcrs, give

In that bright eminence; and with his good
Milton's Parjcfif, L^Jl.
Upbrsided none.
Where men cannot arrive to any eminency ot
edate, yet religion makes a compenfation, by teach-

6. Supreme degree.

7.

Bacon.
and

Populofity naturally requireth tranfmigration

fenfible heat ; nay,

Whatever pure thou in the body enjoy'fl.

becomes at greatcll diftance from the hin.
Bn^n'j Vulgar Errours.

from titillation.

1'hefe two were men of eminency, of learning as
well as piety.
Sllllingfeet.

The time was in the heliacal emerSon, when it

the caufe may be the

From me, whom he created what I was.

ing content.

pears again.

:

The aft

emijjion of colonies.

He deferv'd no fuch return

Painful fwellings of
the hemorrhoidal veins piles.
He dcllrojcd them and fmotc them with emerodi.
1 Sam.
rhoids,

vefTels,

emijjion of the fpirits, and fo of the breath by a flight

IVolton.

the reft.

E'merods. 7 »./. [corrupted by ignorant
E'meroius. J pronunciation from hemor-

and, by the abforbent

Emi'ssion. tt. f. [emiffio, Lat.]
of fending out ; vent.

Exaltation; confpicuoufnefs; ftate of
being expofed to view ; reputation celebrity ; fame ; preferment ; greatnefs.
You've too a woman's heart, which ever yet
ASt(}ttieminence, wealth, fovereignty.
Sh.jk4p. Henry

that upon any emergent

(kin;

mercury will pafs into the blood. Arbulhnoton Alim.

;

4. Sudden ; unexpeftedly cafual.

horfes.

veflcls in the

pickling caufcth laughter

never meets with that reception as what is aimed at
a perfon whofe merit places him upon an eminence,
and gives him a more confpicuous figure.
Addifan's SpeSSator

not alter.

nical fenfe.

notice,

Proceeding or iffuing from any thing.
The ftoici held a fatality, and a fixed unalterable

A tech-

Wherever there inemiffaries, there are abforbent

almoft imperceptible to
the touch, and without either eminence ot cavities.
DryJeri*s Dufrefnoy.

4.

Sivift.

_

2. One that emits or fends out,

They muft be fmooth,

Ben yon/on,

courfe of events; but then they held alio, that they
fell out by a nccelTity emergent from and inherent
in the things themfclvcs, which God himfelf could

The Jefuits fend over emijfaries, with inttruilions
to perfonatc themfelves members of the feveral feds
amongft us.

A part rifing above the reft.

not eafily emer-

declared,

ClifTord, an emijfury and fpy of the king's, fled
over into Flanders with his privity. Bacon's Hen. Vll.
You (hall neither eat nor (leep.

Loftinefs; height.

3.

Milton's Agonijle's.'

E'missary. »./. [emi^ariut, Lzt.]
1. One fent out on private meflages ; a fpy ;

I

A fatyr or libel on one of the common (lamp,

lords

To fome great work.

2. In a high degree.
All men are equal in their judgment of what ii
eminently bed.
Dtyden.
That fimplicity, without which no human per.
formance can arrive to perfection, is no where more
eminently ufeful than in this.
Sui/i.

/ r
•
,•
T„»l
\ n.J. \emiiientia, Lat. •*
' •-

The man that is once hated, both his good and

'AH the

Such as thou hall folemnly ele^ed,

With gifts and^races eminently adorned.

a fecret agent.

r-,

2. Rifing into view, or notice, »t honour.

3.

Wifely has (hun'd the broad way and the greei>«
And with thofe few ut eminently feen.
That labour up the hill of heavenly truth. Milt.

E'minence.1

Immediately the mountains huge appear
Emergent, and their broad bare backs unheave

is

Thy love, which elfe
So em;>f»//)i never had been known.
Mi/tm,
Lady, that in the prime ofcarliell youth.

viftorics, or by emigrations, orintclline commotions.

Bill jfonfon.

his evil deeds opprefs him ; he
gent.

trafts obfervation.

We find the originals of many kingdoms either by

1.

m a manner that at-

Confpicuoufly;

1.

Hale.

"l

Into the clouds.

.

Dryden's Juv,

E'minently. adv. prom eminetil.]

another.

A fenfe

In any cafe of emergency, he would employ the
v^'hole wealth of his empire, which he had thus
amalTcd together, in his fubterraneous exchequer.
Addifon^s Freebclder.

Eme'rgent. <7d7. [ixom emerge.

I

I

of habitation ; removal from one place to

Glanville*s Sce^s,

4. Preffing neceffityj exigence,
not proper.

To dignify fo eminent a fon.

3. Confpicuous; remarkable.
She is eminent for a finccrc piety in the praflice
of religion.
Addifon's Freeholder^
Eminent he mov'd
In Grecian arms, the wander of his foes.
Clmer.

Brown.

lation.

remove from one place to another,

been found out by cafual emergency, and have been the works of time
and chance rather than of .philofophy.
rarities have

Rome for your fake Ihall pufh her conquefts on,

with

ebullition

Any fudden occafion; unexpefted ca- To E'MIGRATE. v. a. [emigro, Lat. ] To
fualty.
Moil of our

Milton.

Dignified ; exalted.

2.

Emi'ction. ». /. [from emiHum, Lat.]
Urine; what is voided by the urinary

colour of all refrafted light, at its
Wry firft emergence, where it appears as white as
before its incidence, is compouodcd of various coNeviott's Ofticki.
lours.

3.

Satan, in gedure proudly eminent,
Stood like a tow 'r.

noife and emication, as alfo a crals and fumid exh:i-

The white

lafty.

And bring new titles home from nations won.

fuch a manner as to provoke to vomit.

The aft of rifing oat of any fluid by

;

Thou h.irt built unto thee an eminent place. Exek.

quality of provoking vo-

Eme'tically. adv. [from emetical.]
It

3. The aft of rifing or ftaiting into view.
The emergency of colours, upon coalition of the
particles of fuch bodies, as were neitljer of them
of the colour of that mixture whereof they are in-

High

1.

Med.

Having the

filvcr

I ,

L'MINENT. adj. [emmeut, Lat,]

is

Various are the temperaments and operations of
herbs ; fome purgative, fome emetlck and fome fuHcJe.
dorifick.

rf..

,-

J

It

mits.

_
1
t n.J, \\tOTR emerge.

Eme'rgen<:e. J

EMM

E M I

Sbatcff.

Medicines that promote the courfes, either by giving a greater force to the
blood in us circulation, or by making it.
thinner.

^htcy.
immeiugoguci

E M P
Emmnjg-.gKei ire fuch

E M P

E M P

the

Round about Ker work (he did empile,
With a ftir border wrought of fundry fiow'n. Spen/er,
Keep yourfelves in breath.
And when 1 have the bloody Hei3or found.
Empale him with your weapons round about. Sbak,
They have emfal'd within a lodiacic
The free-born fun, and keep twelve figns awake

Or when a rich ruby's juft price be the worth of a

the Goat and Crab controul
;
.^nd fright him back.
Donne.

as produce a plethora, or

fulnefs of the vclfeis, confequently fuch as ttrcngthen

the organs of digeftion, fa as to make good blood.

Ariulbnol on Diet.

E'mmet. »./. [semertc, Saxon.J An ant;
a pifmire.

When cedars to

the ground
weight oiAnemttiet,

down by

fall

Tff

I

Emme'w. 'V, a. [from mnv.JTomew

now empale her in my arms.

As faulcon doth the fowl, is yet a devil.

TsEmmo've. -v. a.

[emmo/evoir,

4..

To

excite J toroufe; to put int« emotion.

Not ufed.
One day, when him high courage did emmovr.

He pricked forth.

Fairy S^uein.

Emo LLIENT. a/^'. [emolliens, Lat.] Softening; fuppling.

[emollith, Lat.]

of paper, by the (herifF,

Emo'lumekt. ». /. \emolumentum,

Emo'.ncst. /«/.

[fo

Who can expefl upright verdifb from fuch packed,
corrupt juries ? Why may we not be allowed to make
[from the noun.]
To furamon to fervc on a jury. A law

It fignifieth, in

Empa'sm, tt. /.

Unto my eyes ftrangc (hows prefented were,
Pifturing that which I in mind embrac'd,

Her lofty towers unto the ftarry fphere,
And what unknown nation thcie empeoptedv-tte.}

appeal t* any man, who has read this poet,
whether he finds not the natural emotion of the fame
I will

which the poet dcfcribcs in his
Dryden.

Thofe rocks and oaks that fuch emotion felt,
Were rural maids whom Orpheus taught to melt.

Emphvse'ma. ».y.

Emphvse'matous. adj.

The figns of a gangrene are thefe
mation lofcs its

How happy'i he, which hath due place aflign'd
T' hi? beafh, and difaforeOed his mind ?
Emfal'<!h\mk\( to keep them out, not in ;
Call fow, and dares truft corn, where they have been.

A woman invefted with imperial power.
Long, long, jnay you on earth our emferep reign.
Ere you in heaven a glorious angel ftand.
Da-vies.

The queen of aft emjierour.

Difine.

To fortify.
fwWf villages, to
Raleigh's EJfayi.

The Englinie»i/ia/^</themfelves with the.r pikes,
and therewith bareofflheirenemies,

to (hut in,

llay-warj.

a.

[from pierce.']

To

pierce into; to enter intoby violent appulle.

The weapon bright.
Taking advantage oi his open jaw,.
Ran through his mou;'i with fo importune nilgh^^
That deep (•»;/>;'<'rf '(/his daikfome hollow ma w.Sflw/;

EmPi'ght. preterite and par/, from Topight^
o^ pitch. [See Pitch.] Set;, fixed; fallcned.
But he was war)-, and ere 'it empigbt
In the mcaBtniark,advanc'd his Ihield atwetn.^//^

imperium
Latin.]
I, Imperial power ; fupreme dominion ; fovereign command.
Your ancient cw^/rr over li>ve and wit.

Sbak.

E'MPEROUR. n. /. \empereur, French;
imperator, Lat.
A monarch of title and
:

as,

z.

A nation extended over valt trafls of land, nnd
numbers of people, arri\es in time at the ancient
name of kingdom, or modern ot empire.
Temple,

the em-

Scxuis I'ompeius,

Hath given the dare to Cicfjr, and commands
The empire o< the fea.
Shakcf. Ai:i. and Cletp.

Under pretence to fee the queen his aunt.

Makes vifitation.
Shaktfp. HenryWU.
E'mpeRY.»./. \empire, Frencn ; imperiiim,
Latin.] Empire ; fovereignty j
dominion, A word out of ufe.

RoMe
1 he region over which dominion is ex*

tended.

Charles the emperottr.

All that dwell near enemies
iave themfelvcs from furprize.

-v.

Alfert, ye fair ones, wlioia judgment fit,

Rome's royal millrefj, miftrefs of my heart.

dignity fuperiour to a king
perour of Germany.

the inflam-

Sharp's Surgery,.

To Empie'rCE.

Laviniawill I m:tkc my cmpcrefs.

To fence with a pale.

:

and becomes du(ki(h and
livid J the tenfencfs of the fliin goes 08", and feels to
the touch flabby or emphyfimatous ; and veficatiout,
filled with ichor of ditierent clours, fpread all over it.
rednel's,

E'MPIRE. n.f. {empire, P^rench;

ten emprejs.'\

2.

To EMfA'tE. w. a. [empaler, French.]

[fromi;Wiiti'r)(/*».]_

Bloated ; puffed up ; fvvollen.

E'mperess, n.f. [ftomemperour, now writ-

Granville.

[i/ii^i«-«;t<,«.]

Emphyfema is a light puffy humour, eafily yielding to the prelTure of the finger, ariling again in the
inftant you take it off".
IVfeman.

Spenfer,

1.

According to appearance..
What is delivered of the incurvity of dolphins,

muft be taken emphatically, not really, but in appearance, when they leap above water, and I'uddenly (hoot down again.
Brown,-

So, ftanding, moving, or to height upgrown.

The tempter all empajfton'd thus began.
Milton.
7i Empe'ople. f. a. [from ^i-a/A".] To
form into a people or community.
He wondcr'd much, and 'gan enquire
What (lately building durllfo high extend

pleafing or painful.

3. To indofc ;

2.

That yet thofe fights empajficn me full near. Spenfcr.

Emo'tion. n.f. [emotion. French.] Difturbance of mind; vehemence of paflion, or

.,

How emphatically and divinely does every word
proclaim the truth that I have been fpeaking of. SoutH,

correft the bad fcent of the body.

throw off from equanimity.

Strongly ; forcibly; in a ftriking manner.

1.

A powder to

[tfbxa.rrit]

Boyle on Col.

Empha'tically. otZ-v. [from emfhatical.\

7» Empa'ssion. t>. a. [from pnJJion.'\ To
move with paflion ; to affeft ftrongly ; to

viMtnhy Sfen/er.]

Fair 1^<tn.
J

.

are light itfelf modified by refradions.
I

common law, a defire or

Lat.]

That quick'r.ed the dull fp'rit with mufical comfort.

_

Striking the fight.
It is commonly granted, that emphaiical colours

Government oj the Toneue.

committed to them,

And made irwj»;.^ thcmfelves a fweetconfort.

2.

!

In proper iniemphatick terms thou didft paint the
blazing comet's fiery tail.
Arbuthnot's John Biil(.

1 (hall not need to empannel a jury of moralilh or
divines, every man's own brealt fufficiently inftruft-

The merry binla of every fort,

1.

Forcible; ftrong; ftriking.
Where he endeavoui-s todiifuaJc from carnivorou*
appetites, how emphaiical is his rcalbning
Garth,

a.

Empa'rlance.)?./ [from/«r/?r, French.]

Tb-,

,

term.

ing him.

Burnet's

"1

Decay of Piety.

ToEmpa'nnel. 'V.

Among.

feigned perfons.

underftoodof the antediluvian earth.

mpha'tical.
,.
p, ^
mpha'tick. ]'"'J- t''"^"" ']

exceptions agaiuft this fo incompetent rmr/i.in^ir?/'

Brovin,

Chaunted aloud their chearful harmony

paiTion in hifr.felf,

upon it.
Holder^
Thefe queftions have force and emphafls, if they be

which he ha«

petition in court of a day to paufe what
IS beft to do ;
and it is fometimes ufed
for the conference of a jury in the caufe

Profit ; advantage.
Let them confult how politick they were, for a
temporal emilumtnt to tlirow awayeternity. Snuth,
Nothing gives greater fatisfaSion than the fenfe of
having difpalched a great deml of buliuefsto publick
emoiument.
TalUr.

Emf hafts not fo much regards tlie time as a certain grandeur, whereby feme letter, f) liable, word,
or fentence is rendered more remakable than the reft,
by a more vigorous pronunciation, and a longer ftay

of fuch publick fervice as juries are employed in.
Ct~Mel.

The

aft of foftening.
LaOitude it remedied by bathing, or anointing
with oil and warm water; the caufe is, for that all
latitude is a kind of contufion and compreflion of
the parts, and bathing and anaioting give a relaxation or emoUition,
Bacon.
Powerful menlhruums are made for its emo/iiihn,
whereby it may receive the tinQure of minerals.

—

fummoned to appear for the performance

Such things as (heath
and foften the afperities of the humours,
and relax and fupple the folids at the
fame time.
^incy.

Emolli'tiow. n. /,

nunciation.
Oh, that brave Caefar!
Be choak'd with fuch inolhtr emphajls. Shakefp.

The writing or entering the names of a
jury into a parchment fchcdule, or roll

Emo'llients. n. f.

Emollienn ought to be taken in open air, to hinder
them imvn perfpiring, and on empty llomachs.
Arbuthnot^

Milton's Par. Lofl.

To put to death by fpitting on a ftake

EMPA'NNEL. n.f. [from panne. French.]

Barley is emuUicnt, molllcning, and e)[pe(3orating.
AriuthHoi.
Diureticks are decoflions, emulfions, and oils of
m^///>ffr vegetables, fofar as they relax the urinary
paflages fuch as relax ought to be tried before fuch as
himulate.
Arbuthmt.

A remark-

[i^^-af*,,]

able ftrefs laid upon a word or fentence
;
particular force impreffed by ftile or pro-

Cleaveland.

fixed upright.
Who can bear this.refolve to be empal'd f
His (kin flead off", and roafted yet alive ?
Southerne,
Let them each be broken on the rack ;
Then, with what life remains, empal'd and left
To writhe at leifure round the bloody ftake. Addifon.
Nay, I don't believe they will be contented wfth
hanging ; they talk oi empaling, or breaking on the
w^eel.
Arbulhnot.

Sbakffp,

Fr.]

Your right of birth, som empery, your own. Shakefp.

E'MPHASIS. n. /.

Impenetrable, empal'd With circlingfire,

Yet unconfum'd.

Shahff.

Not at prote&or, fteward, fubft itute.
But as fucce(rively from blood'to blood,

Thank my charms,

or coop up.
This outward fainted deputy,
Whole fctti'd vifage and delib'rate word,
Nips youth i' th' head, and follies doth emmeiv^

Would make the great'ft king dquble.

Take on you the charge
And kingly government of this your land

To watch his fteps

S/Jmy.

walnut.

A lady
So fair, and faften'd to an empery.

3.

Comm:ind over any thing.

EMPKIC. ». f,

[i^Tiifix:<^.

This word

fccms to have been pronounced cmpinck

by

Mil-

hy Milton, and emfirid by DryJen.

pronunciation is to be preferred.]
fuch perfons
trier ; an experimenter
•s have no true education in, or knowledge of phvfical praclicc,.but venture

In the following qnotattons it is
with in, abtrt, to, and upon, before the
objefl.
To feems lefs proper.

2.

;

upon hearfa_v and obferration only. ^tnty.

name of Hvppocrjtcs was more cflicftuil m
men as Cal«n, (kan to move a filly
Hothr.
tMirfri.
TJiJt e«ry plaafroight receive a nam.-, accoid'ITie

«erft:aie fuch

unto llie Jil'cafes it coreih, was the wilh of Paraceirus; a way more likely to multiply empirick,
Brown.
than hcrbalirts.
Such an averfion and contempt for all manner ol
innovators, as phyficians .ire apt to hare for rmfiSvi/l.
4-;V*J,orla«yers forpetiifo^gers.
inj!

Theit principal leainiog was applied to the courfe
of the ftais, and the reft was cmpUytd in difplaying

To each difcafe unfatie chance remedies

^v,-.

Labour in the beginning gave a right of property,
wherecver any one was pleafed to cphy it upon
Ltcke.
what was common.

On the happy change, the boy
Pri'oi.
Employ'd his wonder and his joy.
This is a day in which the thoughts of oor counfubje^.
trymen ought t» be employed on fcrious

To ufe as an inftrument.

3.

The cleanly cheefe-prefs (he could never turn j

Dryjfji.

[from the noun.]

Of footy coal, the emfirlrt alchymift
Can turn, or holds it polTible to turn,
Millitt.

Known only by experience;

only by rote, without rational grounds.

The moft fovereign prcfcription in Galen is but
Sbakefpcare,
cmtirick to this prefervative,
In extremes, bold counfels are the bcft ;
Like rmfirick remedies, they laft are try J,
Dndtn.
And by th event condemn'd or jullify 'd.
'

Emi'i'rically. ad<v. \{x<3a\ empirical .]
1. Experimentally ; according to experience.
anpiiically and fenfibly deduft the
(hall
caufes ot blackncfs from originals, by which ne ge-

We

nerally obferve things denigrated. BraVL'n'sFul. Err.

Without rational ground charlatanically ; in the manner of quacks.
Empi'ricism. tt.f. [imm empirick.'] De2.

To

ufe as materials.
The hbour of thofe who felled and framed the

^.

praftifcd

timber employed about the plough,

pendence on experience without knowledge or art ; quackery.

EMPLASTER. »./. [V*-^"*?*- This word
is now always pronounced, and generally
An application to a
written plafter.]
fore of an oleaginous or vifcous fubftance,
SeePLASTtR.
fpread upon cloth.

All emphjiers, applied to the breafts, ought to
Wijcman's Hurgcry.
have a hole tor the nipples.

fo Emtla'ster. t. a. [from the noun.]

To cover with a plafter.
They mull be cut out to the tjuick, and the fores
Marumtr'! Hu/bandry.
Vif-

OHplafifrtd with tar.

Empla'stick. adj.
cous ; glutinous ;

[»/iB-A«4t»®-.]
fit

to be applied as a

tmphJiUi quality, miied with oil
Wijiman's .^iirg.

«f rofes, perfefls the concoftiun.

Empltijlicl applications are not fufficient to defend
A't:iihxct c/t Air.
a wound Irom the air.

To Emple'ad.i;. <7. [from pie tiii.

To in-

dift ; to prefer a charge againft ; to accufe.
To terrify and torture them, their tyrannoui
naners did often empUad, arrcft, caft them into
prifon, and thereby coufume them to worfe than
Ilayrward.
nothing.
Antiquity thought thunder the immediate voice of
impiety
that
referred
of
cmplradrd
ihtxn
Jupiter, and

Glam>J/t'i Scepfii.

jt to natural caluallies.

Since none the living villjiiis ii\itmphad.
Dryden.
Arraign them in the pcrfoii's of the dead.
v. a. [emploier, French.]
T»

EMPLO'Y.
|, To bufy; to keep at work; to excrcife.

It is ufcd both as agent ; as, ite king employed the minifier or caufe, as, the publick
;

tredit employed Jhe mwijler.

For thrice, at leaft, in conipafs of the year,

To taint with poifon ; to envenom.
This is the more ufual fenfe.

Empo'isoner. «./. [enrpoi/onnear, French.]
One who deftroys another by poifon.
He is vehemently fufpe^ed to have been the empoijoner of his wife, thereby to make vacant hit
Bacon's Henry Vll.
bed.

Empoi'sonmenT. ». /. [empoifonnrment,
The pradicc of deftroy ing by
French.]
11

JefusChrift isfumirtied with fuperior powers to
becaufe he is employed in fuperiour
works, and appointed to be the fovereign Lord of
W^alls.
all the vilible and invifible worlds.

TiEMPO'VERISH. 'v.a. [^^atxr, French.]
To make poor to depauperate to re;

1

;

duce to indigence.
Since they might talk better as they lay together,
they /»i/>ow//6frf their doaths to enrich their bed,

which, fijr that night, might well fcorn the dirina
Hidney.

of Venus.

Your's founds aloud, and tells us you excel
No lefs in courage than in linging well;
While, unconcem'd, you let your country know.
They have empoverljh'd themfclves, not you. H'aller.
For fenfe of honour, if \x.empn'erijbetb a man, it
South.
feni'c.
is, in his edecm, neither honour nor

To lludy nature will thy time employ

;

Knowledge and innocence are perfedl joy, Dryden,
%. To pafs or fpend in bufinefs.
Why, whillt we ftruggle in this vale beneath.

With want andforrow, with diieafe and death.

I'relh rofes bring,

Do they more blefs'd perpetual life employ
In fongs of plcafure, and in fcencs of joy ?

To drew my bed, "till the fm/iov<'rc^.''i/ Spring

Prior.

To leflTen fertility; as tillage impeyverijhei

2.

Bufinefs; objeftof induflry.

land.

Prcfent tografp, and future (lill to find.

The whole employ of body and of mind.
2, Publick office.

Tope.

Empo'verisher.

[ixam eaptverijh .]

hat which impairs fertility.
They dedroy the weeds, and fit the land for af:er-

2.

1

Ae diHributhis

crops, being an improver, and not an empcn.erijher of

Addl/on on Italy.
The honours and the burdens of great pods and

EmpoVeiiishment.»./. [from^OT/ox'«-rj2'.]

tion of
employ.

it,

they hive always a foreigner

n. f.

One that makes others poor.

1

the courfe of

jullice, if one of their own number had

Prior.

Confefs her want.

Emplo'y. n.f. [from the verb.]

employs were joined together.

for

Atterbury.

Depauperation ; caufe of poverty drain
''
ofwealih.
Being paid as It is, now foroc, and then fome, it
;

[from employ.]

unto her, nor any gre.u .•iw/w i"Spenfer's -V/.i/.- of Irelmxl.
rijhment to her colRrs.
All appeals for jufiicc, or appellations for favour or
preferment to another country, are fo many grievous
Siolfl's fietv if Ireland.
impo^ierifhments.
is no great burden

chymids, feem empUyable againd this hypotlielis.
Hoyle.

Emplo'y ER. «./. [from empUy ]

Onetliat

ufes or caufes to be ufcd.

To Empo'wer. 'V, a, [froin/«-iwr.]
1. To authorife; to commiflion; to give
power or authority to any purjwfe.
You are empowered, when yi>u pleafe, to give il»e

That man drives a great trade, and is owner or
employer of much (hipping, and continues and inChild on IraJe.
creales in trade and rtiipping.

Emp uo' y m e k t. «. /. [from employ. ]
Bufinefs; objeft of^indullry; objeft of

final dccifion ol wit.

commiflions to all I'roiedants wliaifocvrr.

2. Bufinefs ; the ftate of being employed.

2.

3. Office ; poll of bufinefs.

anv tidtion, any employment upon earth be ho-

Atterbury.
Leaders on each fide, inde.id of intending the
publick weal have their hearts wlioUy fet to gel or
^zvij't,
to keep '.tployme/its.
nourahle, theirs was.

Thy vineyard mull cmplcy the llurdy llccr
i>rydcn's yiriit. 4. Bufinefs intruilcd.
To turn tlie glebe.

Drydtn's Juv. DiJicati^^n.

The government (hall be impouered

labour.

If

Mortimer,

land.

CaE.mpi.o'ya BLE.
pable to be ufed ; proper for ufe.
The objeilions m^de agalnd the doflrine of the
ndj,

1.

A place of

Shall rob like pirates on our wealthy coad. Dryden.
emporimn
1 take the profperous edate of this great
to be owing to thofe indances of charity. Atterbury.

Soon the bafHed tempter flies. Molieux's Don. Quix.

obftrufl

or in mer-

merchandife ; a mart; a town of trade; a
commercial city.
And while this fam'd empor'item we prepare,
The Britilh ocean (hall fuch triumphs boall.
That thofe who now dilUain our trade to (hare,

All his force on you he tries.
Be but watchful and employ'd.

(hould

That

\\ujito^itxau»,]

mariccts,

chandize.

If you're idle you're detlroy'd ;

Lell animofities

at

Empo'rium. » /. [«'/*!ro{ior.]

7. To fill up with bufinefs.

1.

adj.

which is ufed

Locke,

the angels,

were dangerous for fccret empoifonments, Bceeon.

Empore'tick.

6. To commiflion ; to intruft with the management of any aSairs.
Jonathan and Jahaiiah were employed aiout this
£xra,x. 15.
matter.

plaller,
Refin, by its

2.

mud be charged

on labour.

;

to poifon."

poifon.

Peace is not freed from labour, but from noife
And war more force, but not more pains employ!.
Dryden.

By fire

;

Leaving no means unaitemplcd of dedroying hil
fon, that wicked fervant of his undertook to f»iSidney,
polfon^\m.
Malhrooms caufe the incubus, or mare in the
ftomach, therefore the furfeit of them may fuffi)catc
Baton,
and empoijtn.

To ufe as means.

4.

I. Verfed in experiments.

a.

Gay.

Heraukvuard (ill did ne'er fW/'/y the chum.

The money was empioyedf the making of gallies.
z Mac.

Metals of drofliert ore to perfeft gold

venomous food or drugs

Add ifon' a t'reeboldcr.

The leam'd in fchool, whence fcience fiift began,

Em^'rical.}
Empirics. S

To Empo'ison. v. a, \empoijonner, French.]
1. To deftroy by poifon;,to deftroy by

temflc.
the brave exploits of their princes.
Ojr rvafon is ofteu puzzled, i>ccau& of the imperLocke.
fc£iian of the ideas it is tmploytd akiul.
The proper bufinefs of the unJerilanding is not
Loeke.
that which men always employ it f.

Th' illit'rate writer, emp'rici-\iVc apptiea

Studies with care th' anatomy of man.

Call not your ftocks for me ( I fetve the King.
On whofe employment I was fent to you. Sh. K. Lear,

ufed

ton's

A

EMP

E M P

E M P

'

to

giant

S-wift.

To give natural force

; to enable.
Does not the fame power that enables them to
heal, empotver them to dedroy ? Baker on Learning.

E'mprsss. «. /. [contraded from emfeiejs,
which is retained by Johnfcu in the lollowing lines ]
1 . 'ITie queen of an emperour.
Let

,

E M P
Irft

Art thou thus boldened, man, by thy diftrcfs.
That in civility thou feem'll fo empty f
Shakefp,

Tread fubtilc circles, that may always mset
In point to him; and figures to cxprefs
Thegraccofhim, andhlsgrcatrw/><-fr/j. Be»yanfon.

•

Mr. Boyle has Ihcwcd, that

a female fovereign.
£»i^rf/iofthisfairvirorid, refplendent Eve ! Milton,

Yet, London, emfrefs of the northern clime.
By an high fate thou greatly didft expire. Dryden.
Wifdom, thou fay'lt, from heav'n receiv'd her

4. Unfatisfaftory;

Yet all the liulc tlut I got,

Noble minds of yore, allied were
In brave purl'uit of chivalrous emf rife. Fairy 0ifeerr.
A double conijuell mull you make.
If you atchieve renown by this emprife.
Fuiifjx.

Well fcoc'd, and numerous, deii^Ucion reigns

And emptimf, difmay'd, unfed, ui4>ors'd,
The widow and the orphan llroil.
Philips.
g. The ftate of being empty.
;

'

Sbairfpeare.

'Tis this which cauli» the graces and the loves
uke up their habitation^ in the hardeft marble
and to fubfid in the cmptineft of light and (hadow.
to

Dryiert's I>ufrrfn'>y, Pref.

to hll

up

the defircs.

O frail eft.ite of h'jm.in thin;!.
Drydni.

Form the judgement about the worth or emptinefs
of things here, according as they are or are not
of
ufe, in relation to what is to come after.
Atleriiery.
6. Vacuity of head ; want of knowledge.
Etcrn.il fmiles his emptlntft betray.

E'mption.

n.f. [empth, Latin.]
The
aft of purchafing ; a piuchafc.
There is a liifpulc among the lawyers, whether'

Claucus his exchanging his golden armour with the
braien one of Tydidcs, was emj>tiw: or commutation.
Ariiuthnal on Coins.

.

E'MPTY. adj. [imrijj, .Saxon.J

Void; having nothing in it; not full.
did never

I

rmpty a heart ;
TclTi I

know fo fuU
but

a voice ilTuc from fo
the faying is true, the empty

makes the greatell found.

Hhakrjpear,.

The pit vintmptj, thercwas no water n. ii. C,n.

Ii you have two vetfcU to ii!l, and
jou empty one
to hll the other, you gain nothing by
ilui ; ihcrc

2.

<w/>{y, trifling, pretending pedant;
the latyr courtly and fevcre.

tlie

wit lively,
Feltan.

remains one velfel empty.

Burnet.

Evacuated ; no longer full.
Himltlf he frees by fecict me ins unfeen.
His ll,a..kksfm;,/V left, himfelf efcapcJclcaa.

3. Devoid; unfurnilhcd.
Vol.. I.

pyrruma.

rtunin,^^

drawn in limbicks.

To E'MULATE. t: a.

To rival;

1.

2.

Tlw better precedent.

or

Hen jKihnfon't CatHint,

Thofc fair ide^s to my aid I'll call.

And r«i«/ii« my great original,

Dryden.

What though no weeping loves thy allies grace.
Nor polilh'd marble emulate thy face,
3.

To be equ.-il to

4.

To imitate; to copy

I'ope.

to rife to equality with.
I fee how thy eyt would eoiK/arethediamond.
Sbak,
We fee no new-built palaces afpirc.
No kitchens emulate the vertal liic.
Pope,
;

;

to refomble.

Jt it likcwif* attended with a delirium, fury,

Jir'.un.

«n involuntary laughter,
this motion.

,

the

and

convuKion emiil.iUng
Ar'ipthnot,

Emula'tion. n.f,
I.

fomctimes happens upon the opening of
or ulcerations of the lungs, or'

abfceifcs,

membranes incloiing the breafl.
^iincj.\
An empyema, or a coTleftion of purulent
T*
at!...matter
•*!

'

[itmulalh, Latin.]
Rivalry; dcfire of fupericrity.
Mine emulation

'•

Halh not that honour in't it h.'ul ; for where
thought to crulh bim 111 an e<jual force.
True f»«pJ to fword, I 'U pitch at him Come way,
1

Ur wratli or cialt may get him.

Sfialiefpe.irf.

There was licilher envy nor emulalion aniongft
them.

In the bieall, if noi fuddenly cured, doth undoubtedly

r.

M.ic.

j

impel the patient injo a phtl'ulical conluiaiUmn. liar.
The e is likcwife a confumption from jlO empyema,:
after an inflammation of ihe luogs; which may be
known trom a weight upon the diaphragm, Ojiprcnion
ol the luhj'i, a difiituliy olbreatliing, and inability
to lie on one tide, which ii that which is found.
<

I

'

/Iriurbnal.
^

Spenf.

leemulor, Latin.]
propofe as one to l>e

equalled or excelled,
'i'o imitate with hope of equality,

;

of purulent matter in anr part wliatfoever; |cnera!ly ufeJ to 'iiguify that in
the cavity of the brc.ifl only, and which

to

fuj>eriour excellence.
I would ll.avc
Ilim emulate you ! 'til no fliame to follow

Miltm.

A colleftion

'

cataclifms
and empyrofei univerfal, was fuch as held that it
put a total confummation unto things in this lower
world, cfpecially that of conflagration.
Hale,

[from /mazle.] To'

[iyjieunii.tt.']

Conflagra-

The (urmer opinion that held thcfe

with purple.
Now in loofe garlands, thick thrown olT, the bright'

Empye'ma. 71./.

[<j*»'vfo4).]

tion ; general fire.

To Empu'rple. -.-. /7. [from ///r/^.] To,
make of a purple colour; to difcolour

to make out.

Boyle.

Empyro'sis. n.f.

The Euxine fca is conveniently fituated for tiade,

hathfof/ij/it^^the enquiries of others to apprehend, and entorccd tlieni unto llrangc conceptions

emfy-

Having the fmell or tafte of

F.mpyreumatiejl oilsi dillilled by llrong fires ih
may be brought to emulate elTential oils

ihe communication it has both with Ada and
Europe, and the great navigable riven that emptv
Ihemlelvcs into it.
Arbntbnot.

a,

[from

retorts,

N.>kum, ii. 2.

'V.

atl\.

burnt fubftances.

Sheep are often blind by fulncfs of blood: cut
their tails, and emptj them of their blood. Mortimer.

perplex ; to put to a ttand.

Decay of Pitfj.

Emp yreuma'tical.

The god of fleep there hides liis heavy head.
And empty dreams on every leaf arc fpread. Dryden.
To E'mptv. <i-. a. [from the adjeaive.]
To evacuate ; to ex'liauft ; to deprive of
that which was contained in it.

ToEmpu'zzi.e.

liamy.

The hopes of an elixir infcnlibly evaporate, and
vanilh to air, or leave in the recipient a fonl etn~

vain.

EmpiiipM with celcrtial rofcJ fmil'd.
The deep,

which gives a

dull about it.

wanting folidity;

Empnrpl'd ran, with gufliing gore dillain'd. Philips.

The

[lfjt.7!voiuiJt,c,,]

burning to of any matter

particular ofFenfive fmcU.
^/iucj.
It is fo far from admitting an empyret/m, that it
burns clear away without leaving any cinders, or a

8. Unfruitful; barren.
.Seven empty ears blalled with the eaft wind. Gen.
Ilrael is an impii vine.
Hofea.

Wanting fubltancc ;

n.f.

in boiling or diltillation,

'Raleigh.

It

As (hallow ilreams tun dimphng all the way. Pope.

ftill

"
.

Milton's Paradife Loft.
l

EMPVRf>'oMA. i

Pavement, that like a fea of jafper (hone,

Now to your cotl your emptinefs we know.

.

E'MPYRElr^f.

bjr

Want of fubftance or folidity.

T- ,. .T,^..^

With hallelujahs.

u a handfome way of expoling an

tlieir vine-branclics.

inability

The empyrean rung

Sh.tiifp.

of fo thin a compofitlon, that fixteen Uioufand

•nc hundred and fortj'-nine parts of its dimenfions
are mere empiinefi and nothing; and the remaining
one only, material ani real fubftance.
Benllej.

1.

The fledfuft empyrean (hook tliroujhout.
All but the throne itfelf of God, Milton's Par. Lofl.

The ordinary air in which we live and refpire,

;

Milton,

:

Nor could another in your room have been.
Except an emptinefs had come between.
Dry Jen,

^. Unfatisfaftorinefs

Almighty Father from .ibove.

Under his burning wheel

Boundlel's intemperance.
In nature is a tyranny
it hath been
Th' untimely uaptjiug ot the hippy throne.
And fall of many kings.
Sbakefpeare's Machetb.
The empliers have emptied them out, and married

J. A voidfpace; vacuity; 'vacuttm.

Tielell,

The higheft

[fWujo5.]

Dryden.

f«>';.!

9.

Pope,

and hrft fair.

From the pure empyrean, where he (Its
High tliion'd above all height, bent down his eye,

Vacant of head; ignorant; unfkilful;
unfurnilhed with materials for thought.
Hovs' comes it that fo many worthy and wife
men
His amwtr

firil pcrfeil,

heaven where the pure element of fire is
fuppofed to fubfift.

depend upon fo many unworthy and empty headed

n.f. [from empj.'\
One that
one that makes any place void

good,

Empyre'an. n.f.

Hungrj-,

For then flic never looks upon her lure.

7.

lirft

But fw^rca/ forms, howe'cr i'. fight
Galh'danddifmember'deafily unite.

My falcon now is (harp and palTmg empty.
And till flic lloop, (he muft not be fuU-gorgd,

Ciaats of mighty bone, and bold emprife. Milion,
Thus, 'till the fun had travell'd halt the (kies,
Ambufli'd we lie, and wait the bold emprlfc. Pipe.

'

To the
Pope.

fpent

And Hill return'd as empty as I Went,

Fierce faces threit'ning wars ;

empties J
by taking away what it contained.
The emptier! have emptied tliem out, and married their vine-branches.
Nabum^ ii, a,
I'mptineis. n.f. [from fOT/s/j.]
Abfence of plenitude; inanity.
Where cities flood.

I

Milton's Pjr.tdife Lojf^

Co, foar with Plato to th' rra/i^'rea/fjihcre,

M'ithout any thing to carry; unburtheiied ; unfreighted.
They beat liim, and fcnt him away empty. Matt.

6.

prife.

4.

Empyreal.

the mind

in their hands; but il they had been empty handed,
had they been ever (he larger fatyis ?
Diydcn.

Prhr.

Empri'se. ?t./. [empifi, French.] Attempt
of danger J undertaking of hazard; cuter-

is

fill

_

Now went forth the morn.
Such as in higheft heav'n, array'd in gold

When ye go, ye IhiU not go empty.
Exodus.
lie allcJges that fat^rs carried platters full of fruit

Does only with imagin'd power controul.
If reftlefi piflion, by rebellious fway.

His cotfers found
With hollow poverty and cmptinefs.

unable to

Pleas'd in the filent (hade with empty praife.

5.

birth;

K'mptier.

I

or defires.

Her beams tranfmitted (o the fubjefl earth
Yet this great emfrefs of the human foul,

Compels the weak ufurper to obey.

pertaining to the higheft and pareft region
of heaven. \Tickell accents it on the
"
penult.]

I

mav be rarihed

air

above ten thoufand times in veffcls of glafs; and the
heavens are much empiitr of ai : than any vacuum we
can make below.
Netuton,

A female inveft«d rtfith imperial dignity

2.

EMU

E M P

your nimble feet

Empy'iikal. at//. ['i/tffvf^.J Formed of
the clcineut of fire refined beyond aerial;
;

fomc emulation may be good,
may be found iu fame good men; jet envy lie

Arillotle allows that

and

condemns, as wicked in itfell, and only ta
be found in vsicked minds.
Spratt.
The apodlc exhorts the Corinthians to an holy
and_ general emulatim of the charily of the Macedonians, in conuibuting freely to tlie relief ol ihe
poor faints at Jcrufolcra.
South,
noble emulatian heats yoiu: brcaft.
utterly

A

And y jur awu Uuie new toix you of your reft
4

^

Coo4'

Superfluous matter deflows from the body under
Bro-wn's Vulgar Errors.

^J

conteft ; contention ; difcord.

their proper emunEiories.

There

What madnefs rules in brainlick men.

^hre.

Stair/fitare.
Such faiftious tmulathnt (bM arifc
E'mulative. <7<^'. [from emulatf.] Inclined
!

difpofed

refpiration is continually to difcharge

to

JVoodviard's Natural Hifiory.
The regimen in quinfies, which proceed from an
obftruaioii of the glands, muft be to ufe fuch warm
liquors as relax thofc glands, fuch as, by ftimoUing,
open the emunHmts to fecern the humour. Arhuth.

quencheth jealoufy, and hyeih
Bacon.
_
their competitors and ««H/a»wj adeep.
it

^o Emi/'le. "v. a. [e/nu/or,
Not in ufe.
emulate.

ed from the Latin

TuEna'-mel.

Yet cmu/i/tg my pipe, he look in hand

And 'plaid thereon ; for well that IkiU be c«uM.

Sftnfer.

7iEMu'i.GE, V. a. [tirmlgea, Latia.J

Many words are

in.

uncertainly written with ?« or/'«. In many
words en is changed into em for more
eafy pronunciation.

j

My pipe, before that tmuUd of many.

To

To Ena'ble. -v. a. [from abh.\ To make
able; to empower; to fupply with ftrength
or ability.

milk out.

Emu'lgent. adj. \emulge«s, Latin.]
Milking or draining out.
2. Emulgent veflels [in anatomy] are the
two large arteries and veins which arife,
1.

the former from the dcfcending trunk of
the. aorta, or great artery ; the latter from
the vena cava. They are both inferted
into the kidneys ; the emulgent arteries
carrying blood with the fcrum to them,
and the emulgent veins bringing it back
again, after the ferum has been feparated
Harris.
therefrom by the kidneys.
It doth furiuih th« left emulgent with one vien.

Broivn.
Through the «m«^««branchesthe blood is brought
to the kidneys, and is therefreed of its fetum. Chejne.

E'm ULCUS, adj.

BlolToms, and fruits at once of golden hue,
Appear'd with gay enamell'd colours mix'd.

[amulgjii, Latin.

Rivalling; engaged in competition.
What the Gaul or Moor could not etFeiS,
Nor emulous Carthage, with their length of fjite.
Ben JonfrM's Catiline.
Shall be the work of one.

J.

If thou would'll vouchfafe to overfpre.id
with the (hadow of thy gentle wing,
ling.
^P'"I"'I (hould enabled be thy ails to
enable him,
gre.it fricndlhip with God might

Me

His
and his compafllon might incline him.

Atierbury.

He points out to him the way of

ftrengthens

reftores his lapfes,

his weaknefs,
walk and perfevete in it.

To aft;

1.

the objeft of emulation.
By ftrength
They meafure all, </ other excellence
Milton.
Not emulous, nor care who them excells.
By fair rewards our noble youth we raife
Prior.

Good Howard, emulous of the Grecian art. Prior.
3. Faftious; contentious.
Whofe glorious deeds, but in the fields of late.

Made emulous millions 'mon^ft the gods themfelves.
Siaie/feare.
And dravc great Mars to fartion.

Rogers.

to perform;

Muton,

TopradUfcthc ufe of

enamel.
Though it were foolilh to colour or en.imel upott
the

glafl'cs

of

yet to

teicfcopes,

gild the tubts

of

them may render them moie acceptable to the ufcrs,

chyle in
thick, turbid, milky liquor, refcmbling the
Arbutbnot
an aninul body.
Xmu'nctories. »./. \emun6lorium, Latin.]

Thofe parU of the body where any thing

Such honey drops on fpringing flowers are found.

When Phoebus holds the crimfon mom iii chace.

Fairfax^

There are various forts of coloured glaflesr pa(»ts,.
enamels, and faftitious gems, kf'oodviard oil Fojfilt,

The fubftance inlaid in other things.
Ena'meller. n. /. [from enamel] On«
2.

that praftifes the art of enamelling.

To Ena'mour. 11. a. [amour, French.]

To

inflame with love ; to make fond : with
0/ before the the thing or perfon loved.
Shjkefpeare..

And thou art wedded to calamity.

what vilions hive I feen
Shakeffeare.
I thought I was enamour'd of an afs.
jny brother ii» his love , he is
very
near
You are

My Oberon

!

Sbakjeftare.

enamoured on Hero.

Or (hould (he, confident.
As (itting queen ador'd on beauty's throne,

Shakeffeare.
Shdil feize on half his goods.
The fenate were authors of all counfels in the
and what was by them confulted and agreed,
(late

Is not fo far enamour'd of a cloyfter.
But he will thauk you for the crown.

was pro))ofed to the people, by whom it viaenaBtd

'Tis hard to diicern whether

to decree.

i

Temflc.

or commanded.

To reprefent by aftion.

3.

I

did

fr./.

Purpofe ;

[from the verb.]

determination.

One that forms decrees,

or ellabliHies

The great author of our nature, and enalior ol
this law of good and evil, is highly dilhonourcd.
Atlrrbury.

One who pradlifes or performs any thing.
Not ufed.
The violence of either grief or joy.
Their own enaSiors with themfelves deftroy. Shakcff.
figure )n
[iwAA«y«.]

A

grammar, whereby fome change is made
of the common modes of fpeech, as when
one mood or tenfc of a verb is put for
another.

n

1

-r

To En'ambush. -v. a. [from amhiijh.] To
hide in ambulh ; to hide with hoftile in,

tention.
They went within a vale, clofe to a flood, whole
ftream
there enamUs'd to sivc all their cattle drink, they
Cbafmun's Iliad
bujh'd them.
TsEna'mel. i;.fl. [fromflOT//. SeeAMEL.]

I.

To inlay;

is

Dryden..
in the greatelt

he who is enamour'd of all he does, or be

Dryden.
whom nothing of his own can pleafe..
Enarra'tion. n.f. [enarro, Latin.] Ex-

planation ;

to variegate with colours,

fixed by fire.
Muft I, alas!

Frame kA </wW plate, »tti drink inilafc?

Dtnnt.

iWr?.

expofition.

infertion of one

laws.

2.

erroiu',

Enarthro'sis. »./.

Ena'ctor. »./. [from ettaO."]
1.

Your uncle cardinal

_

Shaiefpeare

enaa Hiftor.

EsJi'cT.

^lincy.
milky.
The aliment isdilTolved by an operation rcfein-

with

Down from her eyes welled the pearles round.
Upon the bright enamel of her tace ;

The party, 'gainft which he doth contrive,

;

It is enaStd in the laws of Venice,

A form

operabling that of making an etmiljUn ; in which
gently
tion the oily parts of nut, and feeds, being
pound in a marble nortar, and gradually mixed
fweet,
into
a
dUIblved
or
fome watery liquor,

colours fixed by fire.

AftlicSion is enamour'd ol thy parts.

Not

to e&ft.

If it be proved againll an alien.
He fecks the life of any citizen.

defire of excelling or outgoing another.
So tempt they him, and emuTouJIy vie
To bribe a voice, that empires would not buy. Granv.

of medicine, by bruifing oily feeds and
kernels, and drawing out their fubftanccs
with fome liquor, that thereby becomes

Any thing enamelled, or variegated with

1

Defcend with all her winning charms begirt,
T' enamour, as the zone of Venus once
Mlltort.
Brought that effea on Jove, fo fables tell.
He, on his (ide.
Leaning hali-rais'd, with looks of cordial love
MiUon's Par.Lofi.
Hung over her enam'Mr'd.

To eftablifh by law

2.

E'mulously. adv. [fiom emulous.] With Ena'llage. «./.

Emo'lsion. »./. [emiJjio, Litin.]

and enables him to

now in ufe.
to
In true balancing of.juftice, it u flat wroiig
be
punilh the thought or purpofc of iitiy bcfoie it
Sfen/er.
enaBrd.
Valiant Talbot, above human thought,
lance.
Sbakeff.
Enaeied wondets with his fword and

Hoviel'sFocal Foreji.

2. Defirous of fuperlority ; defirous to rife
above another; defirous of any excellence poifcffed by another; with o/" before

life,

To Ena'ct. 'u. a. [from alf.\

She is in perpetual diffidence, or adual enmity
with her, but always emulous and fufpcftful of her.

To emulous merit, and to thirft of praife.

v.ti.

by us
without lelTening the clearncfi of the objedt. Boyle,
To En. An infeparable particle borrowed formEna'meu «./. [from the wrb.]
from the French, and by the French

Latin.]

He titling me bcfide, in that fame (hade,
me to play fome picafant tit

Provolt'd

Higher than that wall, a circling row

Of goodlieft trees, loaden with the faired fruit,

and expel an

excrementitious fluid out of the mafs of blood.

a competitor.

To lay upon another body fo as to vary it.

2.

grand

Emula'tor. »./. [{rota emu/a/e.] A rival;
In fiiperiour*

body ot man, and

are receptacles in the

tmuttSlories to drain them of fuperfluous choler.
Difcourfing of the lungs, I (hew that thejr arc the
emunderji of the body ; that the main end of

When for fo Highc and frivolous a caufe,

rivalling ;

See Pai\ wiA flocks, with fruits Pomona erownUf
Here bluftiing Flora paints th' enaaell'd gromi.
Pope.
of Orrery the enamttfd
I bequeath to the Earl
wineby.
bottlesof
S-uift,
filver plates, todiftinguifti

excrementitious is feparated and colle(J\ed,
^incy.
to be in readinefs for ejeclment.

Cood iflionj (till muft be maintainM with gDoit
As bodies nourifti'd with refcmSling food. DryJe:
2. Envy ; defire of depreffing anotner

to emulation ;
competition.

E N G

E N G

E N F

[«»

The

and af^for.]

bone into another ta

form a joint.
Enarthrofis is where a good round head enters into
acavitv, whether it be a cotyla, or profound cavity»
tho o«
as that of os coxae, receiving the head of
femoris; orglene, which is more Ihallow, as in the
kVifema.t.
fcapula, where it receives the humerus.

Enata'tion. u.f. [enato,Lzun.\ The aft
of fwimming oi»t ; efcape by fwimming.
Didt

Ena'untbr, adv. An obfolete word explained by %»/*rhimfelf to mean leji that.
Anger would not let him fpeak to the tree,
Enaunier his rage might cooled be.
But to the root bent his fturdy ftroke.

fifenfer.

To Enca'ce. t;. a. [from ca^.-.] To fliut
up in a cage ; to coop up to confine.
;

HeTuftet'd his kiiifman March,
Who is, if every owner were right plac'd.
Indeed, his king, to be rncag'd in Wales,
Siak.fp.
There without lanfom to lie lorleited.
Like Bajazet enaig'd, the (hepherd's fcoflT,
Or like llack-finew'J Sampfon, his hair aff. Donne.
Tfl Enca'.mp. 1'. «.

[from cam/. ]

To pitch

tents ; to fit down for a time in a march;

to fettle a temporary habitation.
Hcc«fjm;>'</atthemountof God, ExoJ.xWi. J.
The f (caeh kaew how to make war with the
£r.glilb^

E LE

EL E
by BOt putting things to the haiwJ of »
but wearing them by long ficges of towns,

Inglifli,
fcattle,

Encha'ntement.

Toform an array into
a regular camp; to order to encamp.
The people were encamped againll Gibbeihon*

To Enc a'mp. I', a

/

\encbantemen1,

fpells ;

incintation ;

».

Magical charms ;

1

forcery.
'The Turks thought that tempeft was brought
upon them by the charms .aid enchamtmenti of the
2. Irrefiilible influence;

A carap; tents pitched in order.
When a gen*ral bids the martial train

under the llrongeft encbatttmrnt.

v. a. [e/chauffer, French.]
to provoke.
;

To enrage; to irritate

The wind-ihali'd furge, with high and monftrous

2.

main,

T'oEncha'se. a;, a.

French.]
I. To infix; to inclofe in any other body
fo as to be held fait, but not conceakd.'

To adorn by being fixed upon it-

z.

What fee'ft thou there ! King Henry's diadem,
Eicbiu'd with all tlic lionours of the world Siahf.
They houl'es burn, and houfeliold gods deface,
To drink in bowb which glitt'riiig gemt enchafe.
!

No glimpfe of godlike liberty remain'd.

Dtydii.

to concateaate.

The one contrafls and eacbaiitt his words, fpcaking prelTugly and (hort i
breaLhcd accents.

the other delights in longHtnvrl.

To give efficacy to any thing by fongs
of forceiy.
And now about the cjuldron fing,

'Like elvts and fairies in a ring,
Ertcbanttng all that you put in.
Sbakefptare.
I'hefe powerful drops thrice on the thrcfliold pour,
And bathe with this encbamed\\iKK. her door;
That door where no admittance now is found,
But where my foul is ever hovering round. GrarrvUle.

To fubdue by charms or fpel's.

2.

Arcadia was the

charmM circle, where all his

fpirit* for ever Ihould be encbanttd.

One whom the mufick of his own vain tongue
Doth ravifti like enchanting harmony.
Beauty unchaAe is beauty in difgrace.

Escha'.nter. n.f,

A magician

[rnchattteur,

fope.

French.]

a

forcerer ;

one

which men applaud in thcmfelves, conjured up by
tfie magick oi a ftrong imaijinaiion, and only feen

withm that circle in wliicli the trubaitier iUnds.
Decay of Piety
Cladio, by valour and ftratagcm, put to death
tyrants, tncbanien, monltcrs, and knights.
SftH.

Ardan, that black eitcbanter^ whofc -dire arts
Enllav'd our knights, and broke our virgin hearts.
Giuftv.

^nCHa'ntinolv.

[from enchant.]
With the force of enchantment. It is
improperly uftd in a paflive fenfe in the
following paflage.
ad'v.

He's gentle ; never fhooIM, and yet learned ; full
"of aebledcviccf ef aUloium«&a«//ffj;/ybclov'd.
Shake/fearr,

that is againll jullice and charity, and
by miraculous accidents God hath declared his dif-

waters within the earth.
Burnei'sTbeoty,
For the young, during its tnchfure in the womb,
there are formed membranes invelopinj it, called
fecundines.
Kay,

5.

;

Hath great or glorious in mortal eye.

They arc

live

to

all

Fairy ^aeerr.
and generally

Addi/ott's Sptffalor.

ground enclofed
parated from the common.
Several

;

ring or circle; to enring.
That ftrangergueft the Paphian realms obeys,

ground

fe-

'Tisnot the common, but the ««f/o/«ii; muft make
South.
[ty>£»i(in«5Ti5.]

A pane-

a proclaimer of praife ;

a praifer.

Enco'miast. »./.

Certes, faid he, well mote I (hould to tell

The fond encbeaftn that me hither led. fairy Siueen.
To Enci'rcle. f. a. [from chcle.] 'I'o
furround ; to environ ; to enclofe in a

;

him rich.

C(nvel. Bailej,

gyrift ;

The jcfuiti are the great tn^omiajis of the Chinefe.
h^icke,

Encomia'stical.
adj. [iy«»'f<'i«Vi»S>-.]
Encomia'stick. J Panegyrical; laudato"I

ry , containing praife ; beftowing praife.

Pope.

Beneath a fculptur'd arch he Ills enlTiron'd
Pope.

Enci'rclet. ».y. [itooi circle.] A circle

ia a body,

their own way.

6.

French.] Caufe; occafion.

A realm defended with encirclittg feas.

The fpace enclofed the fpace comprehended within certain limits.
And all, that elfe this world's rwr/o/ire baie

within the fame encUfure; to marry among themfelws, and to eat no meats that are not prepared

Hen ^J'ib/tfdt:.
[enche/ifan, old law

The peers eneircling, form an awful round.

Baylor,

pleafurc againft fuch encjojure.

4. State of being (hut up in any place ; encompa(red or environed.
This expreflVs particularly the enclofure of the

curl'd.

Skiitntr.

man appropriate what God hath made

;

Adorns the perion of her Majetly.

ENCO'iVIIUlM. n.f,

Panegy-

[iy»<ii^<(.r,]

rick ;

praife ; elogyHow eagerly do fome men propagate every little
encxnium their parafites make of ihcm
Cc-u.Sin.
A vile encomium doubly ridicules

;

a ring.

I

In whore tnc'irelets if ye gaze.
Your eyes may tread a lover's m.ize.

Sidney.

Encli'ticks. n.f. [ly»AiT»)t«.] Particles
which throw back the accent upon the

who has
foregoing fy liable.
fpirits or demons at his command ; one
Hnclo^i -v. a. [enclos, French.]
who has the power of charms and fpells. To» Hnclo^se.
Such phafms, fuch apparitions, are enccllrncies
1. To part from things or grounds common
;

Let no

common

Or look'd the earth more green upon the world.
Or nature's cradle more cncbui'd and purl'd ?

Shakefftare.

Too dear I prizM a fair tncbanting face ;

The appropriation of things common.

When was old Sherewood'i head more quaintly

Enchea'son. n.f.

Haytvard.

the leaft.

3.

Drydeti.

Hidxty.

John thinks them all ^xrA.i/rr/i/ ; he enrjuires if
Nick bad not given them fome intoxicating potion.
Arbutbmt.
3. To delight in a high degree.

Touching endo^ures, a company of lands inclofed
are thereby improved in worth two or three parts at

To adorn by raifcd or emboffed work.

3.

To ENCHANT, -v. a. [enchanier, French.]
1.

Drydeti.

Words, which, in their natural fituation, Ihine
like jewels encbj/ed in gold, look, when tranfpofcd
into notes, as if let in lead.
Feliort.

to hold in

;

What Ihould I do? while here I was enciain'd.
;

Or Parian marble, when f»cijj'</ in gold.

\encbainer, French.]

difljnft pofleflions.
Enciofures began to be frequent, whereby arable
land was turned into pafturc.
BjCon's lierrry\Ht

\enchajfer,

Like polifh'd iv'ry, beauteous to behold j

chains; to bind; to hold in bondage.

T. To link together

The reparation of common grounds into

2.

A

Oft with til' tnchanlrefs of hit foul ho talks.
Sometimes in crowds dillrefs'd.
Tvom/on,

1 never did like molclUtion view
Shakejfeart'i Oibella,
Or. the ncbafed flood
-v. a.

thing.

woman whofe beauty or excellencies
give irrefiilible influence.
From this enchanlre/i all thefe ills ate come
You are not fate 'till you jRonounce her doom. Dryd,

Seems to call water on (he burning bear,

Encha'im.

Man breaks the fence.
Herbert,
Any thing in which another is enclofed.
Enclo'sure. n.f. \iici\Xi enclofe.]
1.
The aft of enelofing or environing any
2.

The membranes are for the comprehfnfion or
H'ilkint.
enclojure of all thefe together.

abakefprare.
have it by certain tradition, that it was given to
the tirll who wore it by an cncbuntrefi.
Tuiler.

military term not yet naturalifed.

To fatten with a chain

If Cod had laid all comiiion, certainly

Man \vouId have been th' tnclcfer; but fince now

a woman verfed in magical

;

Fell banning hag ! enebantrefs, hold thy tongue.

A

ground inclofed with a fortification.

1 .

fields in feveral diftinft preperties.

I

And mark the Beers, the gibes, and notable fcorns,
That dwell in every region of his face j
Shah/p.
For I will make him tell the tale anew.
ENCEINTE, n.f. [French.] Inclofure

'Te

Pope.

arts.

as in a cave.
Do but (Mcave yourfelf.

yVENCHA'fB.

A forcerefs

1 .

To hide

fo Enca've. i;. a. Ifrom cave.]

which holds the heart of a reader

up.iverfal applaufe,

Ench a'ntress. »./. \enchanlercjfe, French.]

Spread the trtramprntnt o'er the fpacious plain.
Thickrifingtentsacanvascky build. Caji'fTrivia.

[{torn enclofe.],

One that enclofes or feparates common

1.

God hath impal'd us, on the contrary,

Warmth of fancy will carry the loudeft and moft

Their enemies ferved to improve them in their
Crew.
ncamfmenti, weapons, or fomething elfe.

Enclo'ser. n.f,

overpowering de-

light.

.

«.

Pupt.

To hold by an exclufivc claim.

3»

KncHes,

Perllan magicians.

Evca'mpment. n.f. \i:om encamp.']
The aft of encamping, or pitching tents.
I

The peer now fpreads the glitt'rinj forfex wide.
T' enclofe the lock; now joins it, to divide.

French.]

HMon.

«nd ftrong fortified encamfhgi.

EL E

There's nothing blackens like the ink of fools. P.ope,

To Enco'mpass,
1.

lay ihem open again.

Hjyu-ard.'

As much land as » man tills, and can ufc the
product of, fo much he by his labour enclofn from
the common.
Locke,
far inclining of Und, the ufual way is with a bank
fet

2.

with ^uick.

To environ

Moriimer't Hijliandry.

to furround ;
ro (hut in between other
things ; to include.
The lourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a
;

to enciix:le ;

to encompafs ;

jafpct : ihey Ihall be fct in gold in their enciofmgi.

£x, ziviii. zo.

;

-v.

a.

[from cuM/(7//j

to encircle.

Look how my ring encorr.pajfetb thy linger;
Ev'n 10 thy breall encloleth iu> jjoor heart. SbakeJ^,
Two ftrong ligaments c-nipa/i the whole he-.d of
the femur.
IVij'eman's Surgery.

by a fence.
The protcflor caufed a

proclamation to be fet
forth againft cnclofures, comm-inding that they who
had enclofcd lands, accultomed to lie open, Ihould

To enclofe

Poctick fields eneo-npafi me around,
t>! on clalVic ground.

And llill 1 feem to tre
2.

To (hut in

;

to furround;

AddifoHm
to environ.

He, having ^i^it\:.z lix thoufand in his troop.

By three and twenty thoufand of the French

Whs round enctimp.ij/'ed; and let upon.
.Sbakr/ji.
3. Togo round any place; as, Diah encompalfed the nuorld.
Ek^o'mj'assment. n.f. [from enom/^fs.]
Cirturalocution; oWi'mic tendency of
talk.
Finding

By this tHcompaJfmcnl and drift of i]UclVion,
That they do ktiuw mfrlon, come you more near.
^hakcfpeare,

4 %^

ENC<JrE.

EN C
fNCORE. adv. [French.]

Again

;

Hare 1 fought with thee ; fo often haft thou 1>ejt rat
And wouldft d* fo, I think, (hould we encounter.
As often as wc eat.
SLikrff are's Corialanus.
2. To engage; to fight: it hath av/Vi before

when tl finger, or fidler, or buffoon, is
by the audience to dothcfamiE

defired

thing again.

finglc fight;

Sbaicf.
Both the wings of his fleet had begun to entnunter
Turks.
the
Hiji.
Kmiln's
the
Chrillians.
of
with
Tliofe who have the motl dread of death, muA be
content to encounter •uiili it, v\hethcr they will

conflift.

3.
A. .

j[o Tufcan Tiber thus addreii'd his vows

Opponent

1.

The lion will not kick with his feet, but he will
ftrikefuch a ftroke with his tail, that he will break
More.
the b.ick of his tncouHterer with it.
The doctrines of the reformation have kept the
Allerbury.
field againll all encoimteiers.

Two black cloudi
Will) heav'ni artillery fraught, come rattling on
Over ilie Cafpian ; then Hand tront to irout,
Jlov'ring a (pace, 'till winds the fignal blow
To join their dark f«fo»«/?r in mid air.
Alifton.

.

terra.

Eager and warm converfation, either of
Jove or anger.
Tlie peaking comuto coAe> to me in the inltant
mf OUT oieyitnier, after we had fpokc the prologue of
our comedy.

4.

To animate; to incite to any thing.

1.

They rxcoiirate themfclvcs in an evil matter.

Propitious Pallas, to fecure her care.

To Iliun th' tficoumer of the vulgar crowd.

2.

Popf,

But in what habit will you go along ?
»— Not like a woman ; for 1 would prevent the loofe
i^hake/jteare.
rA<;<UfX/rrj of lafcivious men.
Three parts oi Bmtus

J.

and the man entire.

further neceirary,

that the fame fpirit

Pope.

yi Enco'unter.
1 .

"v,

a.

[from the aoun.]

tuecimler it.

Isbakejpeare,

Tbou ftronger may'ft endure the flood of light
And while in (hades 1 chear my fainting fight,
Encowiler the defcending ejcclknce.

2.

To meet in a hollile manner

Dryden.
;

to rufh

Putting thcmfclves in order of battle, they e/t.
iouxrereJ then enemies. Ktwlks's llij!. of 'he Turks.

To meet with reciprocal kindnefs.
See they encounter thee with their hearts thanks j
Both (ides arc even.
Shjkefp. Alacifeti.

To attack

to meet in the front.
Which v»ay focver we turn, we arc enemntered
with clear evidences and fenfible dcmonDrations of a
IXity.
tiUoiJm.
oppofe ; to oppugn.
5.
Jurors are rot bound to believe two witnelTes, if
;

To

the probability of the faiii does tcafonably encounter

them.

6.

Hale.

To meet by accident.
I

am moll foitunatc liius to enccjifrttr you

i^iair/peare'j Corioiaftut.

To rufli together in a hoflile manner; to

the tcry meeting,

ill

men will make unjuft encroachmentt
Atterbury.

To advance into the territories or rights

2.

centive.

of another.

Encreafe of confidence.

As a yian had a right to all he could employ hi*
labour upon, {o he had no temptation to labour for
more than he could make ufeof : this left no room
for controvcrfy about the title, nor for encroachment
on the right of others.
Locke.
The ancient Romans msde many encroachmentt

All generous encour.igeinent of arts. Ottuay' s Orphan.
The reproach of immortality will lie heavieft
againft an eftablilhcd religion, becaufe thofe who
have no religion will prolefs ihemfelvcs of that which
has the eiieouragement of the law.
Rogers.

Enco'urager. K./. {irom fncoureige.'] One
that fupplies incitements to any thing ;

on the fca, and laid the foundations of their palaccx
within the very borders of it.
AJdlfon on Italy.
The people, lince the death of Solon, had already

made great encroachments.
1.

To clog; to load; to impede.
We

have, by this many years experience, found
that exceeding great good, not e/ieumbered with any
notable inconvenience.
Hooker.

favourer.
Live then, thou great enourager of arts.
Live ever in our thankful hearts.
DryJen,
As the pope is a mailer of polite learning, and a
great e/;f^tfrtf^cr of arts ; ^o at Rome thefe arts immediately thrive, under the encouragement of the
prince.
AdJijon.

Swft^

To Encu'mber. <v. a. [eneomhrer, French.}

n

Encumber' d With hisveft, without defence. Dryd..

To entangle

2.

;

to embarrafs ; to obftruft.

The verbal copier is incumbered with
difficulties at once,

fo

many

that he can never difentangis

Dryden.

himfelf.

The god awak'd.

To ENCRO'ACH. <v. a. {accrocher, from
And thrice in vain he Ihook his w'lng,
croc, a hook, French.]
Encumber'd in the filken firing.
Prior.
I. To make invafions upon the right of
3. To load with debts; as, hi: efiaie is enanother; to put a hook into another man's
cumbered ivilh mortgages.
pofTeffions to draw them away.
Enco'mbrance. n.f. [hom encumber.l
Thofe Irilh captains of counties h:xvc encroached 1. Clog; load; impetiiment.
z.

Spenfer.

Philolb|ihers .igreed in

To advance gradually ar>d by flealth upon

del'pifmg riches,

at belt,

confideriiig them as unnccdVai-y f//ca;«^*uw^fjof life.

that to which one has no right
with on
before the fubjeifl.
This hour is mine J if for the next 1 care, I grow

Temple.

•

And do encrcMh upon death's fide.

WW and die.

Dead limbs

Herbert.

Tifiphone, let luoic tram under ground,
Stairf.

Belbn bcr drives dii'calct and ali'ri(hti

are an encumbrance to the body, in-

ftead of being of ufc to it.

2.

too wide,

As doth the tury of two dcfperate men,
ill

his right,

upon him.

:

confliA.
Encwntrr (b.
\N hich,

Locke.

upon the queen's freeholders and tenants.

7e EnCo'unter. -v. n.
I.

Hooker encourages me to fay.

:

J, Favour; countenance; fupport.
For when he dies, farewel all honour, bounty.

;

You have endrd my buftnefs, and I will merrily
Accompany you home,

and this the

Such llrengih of heart
Thy condufl and examples gives ; nor fmall

i

ngainfi in confliifl.

4.

in this moll uleful part ;

Eticourjgetnentf Godolphin, wife andjuil. Phllrps,

And hug it in mine arms.
Shakefpeare.
The faOiioo of the world is to avoid colt, and you

3.

Ctnixl.
But this ufurper his encroachment proud.
Stays not on man
to Cod his tow'r intends
Alilton's ParadlfeLoJf.
Siege, and defiance.
If it be a man's known principle to depart from

to make confident.
1 doubt not but there are ways to be found, to
;

Incitement to any aftion or praftice ; in-

1.

mult die,

1 will inetuKtet darknefs j.% a bride,

i.

to embolden.

To raife confidence
judicious

To meet face to face ; to front.
If I

:

the one prefles too far upon
the other ; or if a tenant owe two fnillings rent-fervice to the lord, and the lord
takes three : fo the Spencers encroached
to themfelvcs royal power and authority.
lie together,

EnCo'uHACEMENT. »./. \^Vom etictiiirage.^

not fufficient for the utility of ch*.

appear in all fort of encounters.

to infpirit ;

alTilt our reafon

Upon the next tnctunter^ yields him ours. Shakef,
Thi* fcnfc
6. Cafual incident ; occafion.
is fcarceiy Englifh.
'tis

Encr«'achment. »./. [irom encroach. 'I
1. An unlawful gathering in upon another
man. For example ift wo men's grounds

Kinds of mufick encour.ige men, and make them
JBactn,
warlike, or make them (oft and cfieminate.
1 would neither encourage the rebels, nor difcourage the proteltants loyalty.
^'"g Charles.

'^rcfs.

Sivlji,

One who makes flow and gradual adFull drcfs creates dignity, augments confcioufnefs,'
and keeps at diilaiicc an fncroacher.
Clariffa,

To give courage to; to fiipport the fpirits ;

5. Accoftjng; tranfient or uneitpefted ad-

Tat£^r:

'Till Neptune, with one general fwcep^

Turns all again to barren ftrand.

Pf. Ixiv. 5.

Around him fpread a veil of (hickcu'd air.

it

Gain by degrees huge trails of land,

vances beyond his rights.

To every ticklilh leader. Shakef. Troilus a>:dCre£ida.
To Enco'uragi. V, a. [eiicMrn^ir, French.]

Accidental congrefs ; fudden meeting.

An equality

by gradual and filent means.
The bold encroachers on the deep.

And wide unclafp the tables of their thouglils

Si,ak,fp/-jre.

Is out's already ;

Encro'acher. »./. \{ioai encroach.
1. One who feizes the pofTeffion of another

2.

Oh, thefe encomlerers I fo gilt of tongue.
They give a coalling welcome ere it comes

ij.

They fabled how the ferpent, whom they call'd

An old

One tliat loves to accoft Others,

2.

To pafs bounds.
Ophion, with Eurynome, the wide
Encroaching F.ve perhaps, had iiil> the rule
Milton's Parad'ife hofi.
Of high Olympus.
Next ftnc'd with hedges and deep ditches round,
Exclude th'f»rrajrii«^ cattle from thy ground. Dryi,

[{torn euc'iuKter,'^

antagonifl ; enemy.

;

Dryi,

Flatter'd, 'tis worle, and by indulgence growl.

2«

To meet face to face.
To come together by chance.

Enco'untkrer. 7i.f.

Tacred ftream, direft my flying Jjrt,
And give to pal's the proud Halefius' heart. D'yJ.
2,^Batt!e; fight in which enemies rufh againft
each other.

Th' eticroacbing ill you early (hould oppofe

If'ake.

or no.

Let's leave this keen rnccu/iter of our wits,
And h\l fomething into a (lower method. Sh:il.cfp.
Pallas ih' intountir fcelu ; but ere he throws,
,

.

Htoker,

When ladies crave to be encounter'd with.

Thou haft heal me out

'

confidercd of as a creeping and eecroacbing evil.

Will turn into a peaceful comick fport.

Twelve feveral timts, and I have nightly fince
Dreamt of encounltri 'twixt thyfclf and me. Siat/f.

.

degrees minglcth itfelf with the rites, even of every
divine fervice, done to the only true God, muft be

Our wars

tNCO'UN'TKR. »./. [^»«»/»r, French.]
Duel;

Aiuiring to the (kies, encroaehing on the light. DryJ,

To EncRo'acH. rv, n.
I. To creep on gradually without right.
The fuperftition that rileth voluntarily, and by

the thing.

To the fame not« thy fons ftull hum or fnnrc,
*ndall ihy Yawning daughters cry Off 9rf. Dttacl.tJ.
I.

Ani3 erery moment rifes to the fight,

Tive times, Marciu?,

once

A word ufed at puolick (hows

more.

E N C

E N e

3.

AJ.iifon's Freeholder.

Excrefcence ;

ufeicfs addition.
Strip from the branching Alps tbcir piny load.
The huge cncmnbiafKe of liorriOck woo(U* TkoinfjH*

Burthen upoa an eilatc.

END

END

In refp«a of the tncumbranett of a Uvleg, wnfijer
• hethcr it be fufficicnt for his faroily, and to maintain hofpitality.

Ajl.

Ency'clical. adj. [VyxuKAonK-]

Circular;
fent round through i, iarge region.

Great houfes Ihall luve an end,

and round of knowledge,
like the great wheels of heaven, we muft obferve

proper courfe in

Either of you to the other's f»if.

Encyfted tumours borrow their names from a cyft
or bag in which they are contained. Shmf'i Surgay.

End. »./. [eni>, Saxon.J
J. The extremity of the length of any thing

materially extended. Of bodies that have
equal dimenfions we do not ufe end: the

1

{riXivrku]

3.

To terminate; to conclude.

Ourlayghing, if it be loud and high, commonly
ends in a deep figh and all the
inftances of pleafure
have a fting in the tail.

Rich.lll.

;

His fovereignT), built upon either of thefe titles,
could not have defccnded to his heir,
but mutt have
ended with him.
Locke,
conclude adion or difcourfe.
y.
The angel ended, and in Adam's car
So charming left his voice.
MikoH.

To

To Enda'mage. -v. a, [from damage,]

By tort'ous wrong, or whom bereav'd of rigli t. Spen/er.
It Cometh Ibnietime lopafs, that a thing
ujinciefl
fary in itfe;tdolh notwithftanding appear
convenient
to be ftiU held, even without lUe, left,
by reafon

have lov'd

of
it hath with fumewhat moft
removal of the one (hould endamage

that coherence which

Can he who kill'd thy brother, live lor thee ? Dryd,

neceffary,

endlefs eipanfion ; of that it can neither tind, nor
conceive any ^;r.y.
Locke,

Heav'n, as its inllrument, my courage (ends;
Heav'n ne'er fent thofe who fight for private ends,
Dryden.
Others are apt to attribute them fo fome falfe end

theother.

when the mind is

3. The laft particle of any aflignablc duration.
Behold the day groweth to an end,
Judgei.
At (he nii/of two months flie leiumrd. jfutiget.
If the world's age and death be argu'd well
By ihc fun's iall, which now tow'rds earth doth bend,
'l"hen we might tear, that virtue, fincc (he fell
So k>w as woman, Ihould be near her end,
Donne.
4. The conclulion or celTation of any action.
Jacob had made an end of commanding hit fon;.
(Jen,

Yet vainly moft iheir age in ftudy fpend

No end of writing books, and to no end.

Denham,

The caufes and defigns of an aifion art the beginning

:

the eifcfU of tliefc caufes, and the diflficuliics

met with in the execution of thefe defigns, are the
middle; and the unravelling and refolution of thefe

Brume of Epic Poetry,

difficulties, art the end.

When end is not uf«d materially,
oppofed to begitming.

it

is

Better ii the endihin the iegtnnlng thereof. Ecclef,

€. The ccnclufion or laft part of any thing
the end of a chapter;
difcourfe.
as,

the end of a

7. Ultimate ftate ; final doom.
Mjrk ihe perleift man, and behold the upright,
'
man is peace.
fjuimi.
t. The point beyond which no profeflioii
can be made.

for ilie etidoi that

'Ihey reel to and fro,

md ftajger like a drunken

man, and are at their wits end,
I'f cvii. ay.
9. Final determination ; concltifion of debate or deliberation.

My guilt be on my head, and there's an rnj'
,

Hhjliifpfj) i:

JO. Death; fate; dcccafe.
determioe to writ; the' life and end, the nilure and the fortunes ol (leorge Villiers.
Wui.n,
1

'I'll

1

nanirl'jCit

the g:ta« buliBaf) 9lUcu> h( «ur)cl«c^
lor

Gather our foldieis, fcatttr'd and difperft,

'1

thing to fervc comraodioully lor divers ends, and of
may be fufficicnt caufe lor continuance, though the rell have ceafed.
Ho'Aer,
All thofe things whicR are done by hira, have

Which is, the eternal face of God to fee.

Who laft oiends, and hrft of caufes is ;

And to do this, Ihe muft eternal be.
Davles,
The r^Ti/ of the commandment is charity, i 7int.

or dilbrdcr the glube.

Damage; lofs.
Tliele riags oi Prance that are advanced here.

Have liitiicv maich'd to the endamagement, Shakefi
To Enda'noek. X-. a. [from danger.]
I. To put into hazard
to bring into peril.
:

Every ore detircs his own prefervation and happinefs, and therefore hath a natural dread of every
thing that can deftroy his being, or endanger his

Two things I (hall propound to you, as ends;

have made them
Suckling,
Such conditions did fully comply with all thole
ends, for which the parliament had firft taken up
»"»»•
Clarendon.
Hear and mark
To what end I have brought thee hither. MUton,
Lite, with my liidamora, 1 would chufe;
But, lofiog her, the end of living lofe.
Dryden.

happinels.

oa end,]

Upright; erect:

ao, his

hair

20. y^n End has a fignificafion in low lan-

guage not e:il)ly i;xplaincd ; as, mojl an
end, cammonlj : pcrh«ps it is properly en
end, at the concliifion or corrupted from
,•

Slay 'ft thou to vex me here ?
Slave, that llill an end, tuiii. me to lliame!
III li.s p. 'J. a,

[from the noun.
4

Stake/,

TilLi/on.

He rais'd the reft.

To force the foes fr >m the l.avinian (hore,
And Italy '» endanger'dpnce reftoie. Dryden's Mn.

My kingdom claims ymir birth my late defence,
;

Of our endanger' d fleet, may claim your couiidcnce.
Dryden.
Volatile falts never exlft in an animal body; the
heat re<iuired to make them volatile, endangers the
animal.
ArOuihnal.

For when (iiccefs a lover's toil attends.

ftands an end.

IVti/dward's Natural Hi/lcry.

Enda'macemekt. «./. [from endamage.]

fince the wile men ol this world
••"'i"-

Few alk'd if fraud or forte attain'd liii ends.
Pope.
The rWofour faft is to plcalc God, and make
him propitious.
.Smalridgc.
}^. An Knd.
[Probably corrupted from

Shale/.

Rather more honour left, and more clfeera. Miliox.
When an erroneous opinion is publilhed, the jiub.
lick is endamaged, and therefore it becomes
punilhable by the raagiftrate.
Souib.
A great alteration doth fcldom any wife emiamagt

thole ends any one

fome end for which they are done; and the end for
which they are done, is a reafon of his will to do
them.
Hooter.
Her only end is never-ending blifs

Hooker.

And lay new platforms to endamage them.
The trial hath endamaged thcc no way

hing intended ; final delign ; die termination of intelledualprofpett.
Wifdom may have framed one and the fame

8.

tiie

Where your good word cannot advantage him.
Your (lander never can endamage him.
Stake/,

Addi/an'tSfeaator.

_

fome old word noteatily rccoaabk.

7'hc louliet.eiv«si>iulligcnce.

By her oe.ir genius, of the budy'>r«./,
An-I fo imparts a tidncfs to the fcr.le.

or intention.

Ta

mifchief ; to prejudice; to harm.
Nor ought he car'd whom he endamaged

there, it finds nothing to hinder itsprogrefs into this

to arrive at; but,

-Tayiof,

4. To ceafe; tofail.

What can tliy endt, malicious beauty, be'?

no difficulty

5.

To die.
Y"

brcalt.

17. Purpofe; intention.
There was a purpofe to reduce the monarchy to a
republick, which was far from the end and purpofe
ol that nation.
CUrendon,

The eitremity and bounds of all bodies we have

To come to an end; to be finifhetl.
Then eafe your weary Trojans w/ll attend.
And the long labours of your voyage end. Drydiit.
Thy bofom might rccei vc my yielded fpright. Fairf,

15. Confequence; conclulive event; conclulion.
O, that a man might know
The end of this day's bulinefs ere it come
But it fufficeth that the day will end.
Sbatefp,
The end of thefe things is death.
Rom, vi. 21.
16. Fragment; broken piece.
Thus i clotlie my naked villainy
With old odd endt, ftol'n forth of Holy Writ,
And feem a faint.
Sbuteff. Rich. 111.

veficle or bag.

3« Extremity or laft part in general.

Stiak,

Shake/, Henry IV.

happy were my death, mine ending Weft,
If this 1 could obtain, that, kreaft to

Confound your hidden faUchood, and award

Enclofcd in a

extremity of breadth i^jiJe.

t.

Locke.

Lcll he that is the fupremc King ol kings.

Arbulhnot.

Jonallun put forth the end of the rod that was in
his hand, and dipt it in a honeycomb.
i Saai,

There would be an end of all civil government, if
the airignment of civil power were by fuch iullitu-

Take heed you dally not before yourkinff,

This art may juftly claim a place in the tncyclof4edia, cfpecially fuch as fervei for a model of educa[iwsK.]

I.

J4. Caufe of death ; deftroyer.

Glamiiue.

Ency'sted. adj.

1 his fword haih ended him.

Abolition : total lofs.

tion.

the fober wheel of the other. Brmxm's falgar Err,
Every fcicnce borrows from all the reft, and we
cannot attain any fingle one without tlie tncjclofady.

tion for an able politician.

The lord of Staftbrd dear to-day hath bought

Nahum.

1 3 .

two circles, that while we are daily carried about,
and whirled on by the fwing and rapt of the one,

Jo deftroy; to put to death.

Thy likenci's; forinftead of thee. King Harry,

Amos,

iz. Limit; termination.
There is no end of the ftore.

this encyclnfitdiu

we may maintain a natural and

2.

Ceflation ; period.

What is the fign of the end of the world ? Maitb.

ences ; the round of learning.

Ruti.

Knolles.
That expenfive war under which
we have lb long
groaned , is not yet ended.
Smalridgc.

Rojctmman.

1 1.

To ferminate; to conclude; to finifh.
They have fBd'rrf all my harvcft.

Ro/ccmmori,
Unblam'd through life, lamented in thy end. Pofe,

StUl'mrfieit.

•

He would in one battle end quarrel with them,
either win or lofe the empire.

Do not forfake me in my end.

Encvclope'diaTTw. /. [iyxtijcAwi-itJii*.]
Encyclope'dy. J
The circle of fciIn

1.

My God, my father, and my friend.

This council was not received in patriarchal fees,
which is evident from Photius's encyclical epiftle to
the patriarch of Alexandria.

END

ear end, %ni tra man <an live well t'hat hath not
death in his eye.
L'Ejhange,
Remember Milo's end^
Wedg'd in that timber which he ftrove to rend.

The inlereil endangeni is our title to heaven.
Rogers*

2.

To Incur the danger of; to hazard.
He that turneth the humours b.iclt, and maketh
the wound bleed inwards, e/idangere;l> malign ulcers.
Hacon ^

To End e'ar. 'v. a. [from dear.]

To make

dear; to mjikc beloved.
All thofe inllances ol charity v/hich ufnally c»Iweetnefs of conveilaiici!, frec|ucnt

<''•" '^ach oihcr,

admonition,

all

(ignilicaiioiij

ptrfted towatdi children.

of love mut^

be ex-

TayUr.

.

And in tlic mixture of all ttiefeappeaB
Variet) , which lU the veil enMun.
Drnbam.
The only ihiuj ih»t can endear religion "i# y.iur
|)raCtiikC,

.

^

END

END

To ENDrcr. }i>. a. [enditer, French ; rfrVtum, Latin.]
r» endi'te,

E'UDLOKC.fli/i/. [^Wand^wf.] InaftrSight

To charge any man by a written accu-

Then fpuriing at fiill fpeed, ran endlong on,
Where Thefeuj fat on his imperial throne. Drydcit.
E'n d m ost. adj. [rnd and m<fi. ] Remoteft ;
fnrtheft ; at the farther end.
Did,

END
«ra{nce, will be to raiCe your jflfeaioiu »*<we '^'n
'^'«*'-

world.

Ende'arment. «./. [from mdcar.']
1.

1.

The caufe of love; means by which any

fation before a court of juftice: as, he
•was cndited ftrffloHj.
It is often writ-

thing is endeared.
Her tirft tnjiarmtiin, twining round the foul.

ten india.

7i«m/oir.

2. The ftatc of being endeared ; theftate of

2.

Endi'tement. J
monwealth

Heav'n doth divide

Here their appointment we may beft difcover.

Hooker.
but think commendably even of them.
The hand-writing againft him may be cancelled
in the court of heaven, and yet the indiClmem run
South.
on in the court of confcience.

Attend the court, and thou flialt briefly find
In that one place the manners of mankind

It h»s commonly after

I could wilh that more of our countr)- clergy « ould

tndeavour after a handfome elocution.

Addifon

Of old, thofe met rewards who could excel
And thofe were prais'd, who but endeavour' d well.
Pofe.

Ta Endea'vour* f . o.

To attempt; to

Call tliyfclfwTetch, and, if thoudar'ft, complain.

E'ndive. n.f,
Latin.]

French;

intjbum,

Ende'mick.

3
^

2. Infinite in longitudinal extent.
As it is pleafant to the eye to have an endlrfs
profpe^, fo it is fome pleafure to a finite underrtand-

An alms-Iioufe I intend to endotv very handfomC"

fome caufe peculiar to the country v.here
fuch as the fcurvy to the north-

^ling.

4. Inceflant; continual.
All the pricfts and friars in my realm,
Shall in proceflion fing her .«d'/f/i praife.
Shakeff.
Each piealing Blount fliall endUfs fmiles bcftow
And fott Belinda's blurti for ever glow,
P^fe.

E'ndhsslv. adv. \fxoxn eiidlefs.'\
1.

We may bring a confumption under the notion of
a pandcmick, or endemick, or rather a vernacular
Harvey
difeafe, to England.
Solenander, from the frequency of the plants
fpringing up in any region, could gather what endtmial difeafe the inhabitants were fubjefl to. Ray.
An endemiul difeafe is what is common to the
Arbuthnoi on Air.
people of the country.
What dcmnnftratcs the plague to be endemiul to
Egypt, is iu invafion and going olf at certain feaArbuthnnt
font.

To

maicc free ; to enfranchife.

The EngllOi tongue hath been beautified and enriched out of other tongicj by enfranchifuig and
Camden.
i/Uenixing llraiige words*

Inceffantly ; perpetually.
Though God's promifc has made a fure entail
of grate to all thofe who humbly feek, yet it no
where engages that it fliall importunely and endlejsly renew its aflaults on thofe who have otten reDecay of Piety.
pulled it.

Without termination of length.
E'NDLfSSNESS. n.f. [from endlefs,\
2,

Extcnfion without limit.
Perpetuity; emUcfs duration.
3. The quality of being round without an
1.

2.

Addifon,

To enrich with any excellence.

3.

1 at firit with two fair gifts
Created him endow'd; with happincfs
And immortality; that fondly lolt.
This other ferv'd but to eternize woe.
Milton,
Among thofe who are the moft richly endowed by
nature, and accompliflied by their own indultr^', how
few are there whofe virtues arc notobfcured ? Addif,
God did never command us to believe, nor hia
minillers to preach, any do^nne contrary to lherea«
fan he halh plcafed to endou> us with.
Stuffi,

To be the fortune of any one.

4.

1

do not think

So fait an outward, and fuch ftufl"within,
Endov/s a man but him. Shakefpeare' e Cymbeline,

Ekdo'wment. n.f. [from f»i/9Tt>.]
1.

2.

Wealth bellowed to any perfon or ufc.
The beftowing or affuring a dower ; the
fetting forth or fevering a fufficient portion ibr a vicar towards his perpetual
maintcn.nnce, when the benefict is appro-

Brings them to joyous reil, and endlifi blifs. Spenfer.
•Ml our glory extin^, and happy lUte,
Milton.
Here fwallow'd up in tndlefs mifery !

plain

acotmtry; ufed of any
- proceeding from
difeafe

yo Ende'ni7.e. V, a. [from denizen.^

He (hall furely endmi her to be bis wife. Exodm.

Tillorfon,

None of the heathens, how curious foever in
fearching out all kinds of outward ceremonies, could
ever once endeavour to refemble herein the cliurch's
Hooker.
care for the endlrfs good of her children.
But after labours long, and fad delay,

Bjmer*s Tragediej.

ern climes.

To fupply with any external goods.

3. Infinite in duration ; perpetual.

figure of eleven fides and angles
Ende'mial. 1/j^'. [I'Jiju,®-.] Peculiar to

E
Ende'mical. ^
E

2.

fion or termination.
Nothing was more ertdlf than the common ir.ethod of comparing eminent writers by an oppofiiion
Pope.
of particular pallagcs in them.

He appears an humble endeavourer, and fpeaks

A

To enrich with a portion.

Having no end ; being without conclu-

k

Endea'vourer. n.f. \{xova eudeatour.]
One who labours to a certain end.
EtJDECA'coN. n.f.

1.

.

I

Heriert,

To ENDO'W. 1;. a. [indotarr, Latin ; endow

ly for a dozen fuperannuated hufbandmen.

Endive, or luccoty, is of fevcral forts; as the
Mortima
white, the green, and the curled.
K'ndlebs. adj. [from <•«</.]

Though but endeavour'' d w ith finccre intent,
Mine ear Ihall not be flow, mine ear not (hut. Milt.

[iVAxayw ]

Superfcription ; writing on the back.

1.

2. Ratification.
Th' endorfemeni of fupreme delight.
Writ by a friend, and with his blood.

A plant.

mg to view unlimited excellencies.

To pray'rt ttpentanee, anJ bbedience due>

it reigns :

[etiJive,

Millon't Paradife Regaintdt

Endo'rsement. n.f. [from endorfe.']

Dryden.

eflay.

honcftly to no purpofc.

Of archerJi

airer, French.]

Hear the indiCtfntOls, then return again.

•vourifot the obtaining of a lelTer good, ought to
animate men more powerfully In the purfuit of that

for a certain end.
before the thing.

Chaiiots, or elephants, endors'd with tow'n

We never draw any indiSlmmt at all agairill them,

Temfle.

To labour to a certain porpofe; to work

Sv)ift to Pope,

To cover on the back. This is not ufed.

2.

defcribei in the libei or articles, which our Englifli
Ayliffe.
lawyers call an indieiment or information.

She could not make the lead endeavour towards
the producing of any thing that hath vital and orRay.
ganical parts.
Such an aflurance as will qnicken men's endea-

fo Endea'vour. <v. n. [from the noun.]

in a folio cover, and the reft in tundles endorfed.

Tis r.ccefTary that the fpecies of the crime be

.

ef a later poet to WTite like one who has written beDrydin.
fcre him on the fame fubjeft.
The bold and fufficient purfue their game witli
more paflion, endeavour, and application, and there-

Locke.

fcription.

Coixsel.

offence.

And look on t\\(:it enjeavoar Shakff. Ant. andCleo.
I take imitation of an author to be an endeavour

ter, and fteady profecution of, true felicity.

To the king who hath the fun for hit.
helmet.
H<ni.el,
All the letters I can find of vours I have faftencd

or an accufaiion for fome

;

officer can have power to punifli the fame

Sbakef,

Tillotfon.
which is in6nitely greater.
This is the hinge on which turns the liberty of
affWMVoliri
conftant
tlieir
beings,
in
Sntellertual

the backfide of the record of the law falique, and
there you will findjit eniorjed. Bacon's Af of htbegmt.
Upon credential letten was endorjed mis fuper*

offence exhibited unto jurours, and by
their verdift found to be true, before an

The ftate of man in divers funftioin.

fore often fucceed.

A

billor declaration made

in form of law, for the benefit of the com-

eiid; effort to obtain or avoid.
My ftudicd purpofes went
Beyond all man's enjeavcurx. Simkrf. HexrjVWl.

Setting <^<^wx'7wr in continual motion.

women themfelves, not of males claiming by
women. The French gentleman faid. Where do you
find that glofs ?
The EngUlh anfwered, Look on

the

Waller.

ENDE'AVOUR. »./. {de'joir, French; «;- Endi'ctment.T ». /. [from endite.']
Labour direded to forae certain

French}

fuperfcribc.
A French gentleman fpeaking with an EnglKh of
the law falique, the Englllh faid that was meant of

To compofe.

Your battles they hereafter fliall indite.
And draw the image of our Mars in fight.

ate endtameni between them, he may, in the end,
South,
be forced to write vanity and fraftration.

\endorfer,

To regifter on the back of a writing; ta

1.

When toreprefs, and when indulge our flights! Pofe.
Te E K D i't e. "u. «.

a.

dorfum, Latin.]

Cay.
Hear how leafn'd Greece her ufeful rules Indites,

the fcpiinte property of a thing the greit
mankind? South.

devoir.']

To ENDORSE, -v.

to compofe ; td Write.

;

How fliall
When neither I can read nor he can write.

caufe of its endearment amongftill

When a man fhall have done all that he can to
make one his friend, and emptied his purfe to ere-

To draw op

Filbert unto me indiie\

being loved.
Is not

line.

priated.
3.

Ctnuel,

Appropriation of revenue.

A chapel will I build, wilh large endovmtnl,
Dryden.
4. Gifts of nature. In this fenfe it is commonly plural.
By a delirc of fame, great endo^-ments are not
fuH'ered to lie idle and ufelcfs to the publtck. Addifon,
If providence fliews itfclf even in the blemifhes of
thcfe creatures, how much more does it difcover
itfclf in their feveral Mjcwmfs/r, according to the
condition in which they are polled?
Addifoa,

To Endu'e. -v. a. [indut>, Lat.]
I. To fupply with mental excellencies; to
invert with intclletflual powers.
Endue them with thy holy Spirit. Ci-mmon Prayer,
Wifdom was Adam's inftruii^or in Paradife wif:

end.

dom endued the fathers, who lived before the law,

The Tropick circles have.
Yea, and thofe fmall ones, which the poles engrave,
All the fame rour.Jiicfs, evcnncfs, and all
Datnc.
The clutlegntjt ot the E^uinoaial.

Hooker,
wilh the knowledge of holy things.
Thcfe banith'd men that I have kept withal.
Are men endu'dWith worthy qualiUCJ, Sbake/feare.
Willi what c»fe>

I

Eitdi/'d

END

E N E

InJu'J with rojal virtues as thou art|
Might'ft thou expel this monfter from his throne?
Mi'toK.
Whatfoever other knowledge a man may be en i/o^Vf/ withal, lie is but an .^.lorant perlbn who doth
not know God, the author ol his being.
TiUoiJon.
Every ChrilUan is endued with a power, whereby
he is enabled to ie5il and conquer temptations.

2. In the following paflage it feems incorreftly printed for endmu.
Leah faid, God hath endued me with a good
dowry.
Gen.
Endu'rance. II. f. \ixom endure,

hardincfs.

2.

Sfenfer'i Irclaad.

2. Patience; fufferance.
Great things of fmall
One can create ; and in what place foe'er
Thrive under evil, and work eafe out of pain.
Through labour and endurance,
MUton.
Their fortitude was moft admirable in their ptefence ani endurance of all evils, of pain, and of
death.

3.

Temple.

State of fuffering.
I would fain know whether that man takes a ra-

tional courfe to

whs

prefervc himfelf,

the

rcfufes

I

Sbakeff. Henry\lll

E'nemy. w./,

_

to fuftain ;

to

fupport

Foltov'd his enemy king, and did him fervice

Improper for a (lave.

4.

J.

One that diflikes.

The fiend

[In theology.]

E:jerce'tick. adj.

Both were of Ihinmg Iteel, and wrought fo pure.

1 could M</«rc; without him, live no life.
Milan.
The gout haunts ufually the eafy and the rich,
the nice and the laiy, who grow to endure much, becaufe they can rai/arc little.
Temble.

I.

Forcible;

[t»ifyuT<x«s.]

aftive ;

vigorous}

If then

By thine own tongue thou art condemn 'd, and muft
Shakejfear'i CjmMine.

we will conceive of God truly, and, as
we muft look upon him

far as we can, adequately,

Takmg into the city all fuch things as they thought
needful for the enduring of the liege, they dellroyed

not only as an eternal Being,

I

KnMei'sHiJi.

to fuftain.

4. To continue in.

Dryd.

To Endu're. v. n.

2.

_

Praverti.

For how can I endure to

come unto my people >

Beg the bleffed Jefus to give an energy to your
imperfcft prayers, by his molt powerful inieiteirion.

the evil that fhall
Or how can I en.lure to fee

Infpiring God !

3.

EJlh. viii. 5.

Ekdu'rer. n.f. {Uom endure.]
One that can bear or endure ;
I
.

fuflcrer,

•

Thomjon,

faculty ; operation.
Matter, though divided into the fubiileft parts,

is fcnlclefs and ftupid, and makes
no approach to vital energy.
Ray.
H jw can conculhon 01 atoms beget fclf-tonfcioufnefj, and powers and energiet that we feel in our
minds?
BeniUy.

Dm^ie4

fufiainer '

who, bou«dlefs fpirit all,

moved fwillly,

kings ftiould reign in Ireland but themfelvesj
nay
they could hardly endure that the crown
of England
(hould have any power over them.

4.

Bacon.
5>heepi(h foftnefsoften enervates thofe who arc
bred
like fondlings at home.
Locke.

Footmen

exercifc themfclves, whilft their ener.

vated lords are foftly lolling in their chariots.
Arbuthnot and Pope.

Enerva'tion. »./. [£mmc}iei-^e.]
1. The aft of weakening; eraafculation.
2. Theftate of being weakened; effeminacv.

ToEne'rve. t^.fl.

Strength of expredion ;
ficatioa;

fpirit j

liie.

force of figni-

To weak-

[f«.Tio,Lat.]

en ; to break the force of; to crulh.

We (hall be able to folve and enerve theii force.

Such objeiS hath the pow'r to foft'n .inj tame
Severert temper, fmooih the rugged'ft brow,
Ener-ue, and with voluptuous hope diflblve.
Miltin.

ToEnfa'mish.

-v.

a.

To

\ixom famijh,]

ftarve; to famifh; to kill with hunger.

Dia.

ToEnfee'bLE.
weaken ;

"v.

a.

To

\ixQ\x\ fcelle,]

to enervate ;

to

deprive

oi

ftrength.
I've belied a lady.

The princefs of this country ; and the air on't
Revcngingly enfetLles me. Sh.ikeffearc's Cymirline.
My people are with fi;knefs much enfeebled. Shak.
Much hath hell debas'd, and pain
EnfeeWd me, to what I was in heav'n
Milton.
Some employ their time in affairs belnw the dignity of thtir perfons ; and being called by God, or
the republick, to bear great bu:dens, do enftel/le
their underltandings by fordid and brutilh bufiiiefs.
!

_

Taylor's Rule if li-ving boly.
Sure, nature form'd me of herfofteil mold,

Enfeebled all my foul with tender palTions,

And funk me even below ray own weak lex.

ToENFE'OFF.'u. a.

Addif.

\feoffamenium, low-

To inveft with any dignities or

A law term.

If the eldell fon enfeoff the fecond, referving homage, and that homage paid, and then the lecond
fon dies without ilfue, it will defccnd to the eldell as
heir,

and the feignory is extinct.

Hale,

Enfe'offment. '«.y; [Uom enfeoff.1
1. The aft of enfeoffing.
2. The inllruracnt or deed by which one is
inverted with poffeffions.

ToEnfe'tter.

11.

a.

[from _/;//cr.]

bind in fetters; to encnain.

To

Not in ufe.

His foul is fo cnfelter'd to her love.

That Ibc may make, unnuke, do what Ihc lift.
Hbai^ejpcare.

ENFILADE, n,f.

!

And unremitting energ y, pervades,
AJjufts, fullains, and agitates the whole.

Our great Englilh lords could not endure that any

deftroy the forces of the natives which they
have
fubdued, refting upon their own protedling forces^

Smalridge.

What but God

yincn.

fee

the deftruCtion 01 my kindred >

Force; vigour; efficacy; influence.

....

The mind benevolent and pure.
2. To brook ; to bear ; to admit.

for

(jretu.

Licke.

A charm that Ihilt to age endure

enerriej merely;

with an omnipotent as well as an eternal energy.

imagine duration, where nothing does really endure
*>*«'*•

to emaf-

culate.
Great empires, while they ftand, do enenate and

Latin.]

The God of nature did his foul infpire ;
Or earth, but new divided from the Ikv,
And pliant llill, retain'd th' ethereal energy. Dryd.
Cod thinketh with operation infinitely perleflj

By being able to repe»t meafures of time, or ideas
of dated length of duration in our mind;, we
can

To

[enervo, "Lzt.]

to deprive of force ;

poCellions.

Whether with particles of heavenly fire

to remain ; to continue.
Labour not for the meat which pchfheih, but for
that meat which«i/ir«/A unto everlalfing life.
%i».
Doth the crowo tndute to every generation i
;

weaken ;

They are not efleflive of any thing, nor leave no

their working upon mirrours, and places of echo,
doth not alter any thing in thofc bodies.
Bacon.

Brawn' 1 Vulg, Err.

Swift.

VoEne'rvate. 1;. ?/.

Power not exerted in aftion.

work behind them, but are

The deer Mi/arf/i the womb but eight months,

To laft

Crew

E'NERGY. »./. [i.fjvi.'«.]

Not ufed.

and is complete at fix years.

but alfo as a Being

eternally energelick.

1.

w Ih to die, yet dare not death ?»</««.

powerful

in efieft ; efficacious.
Thefe miafms entering the body, are not fo energeiick as to venerate tlic entire mafs of blood
in an
inrt^nt.
_
Harvey.
t. Operative; aftive ; working; not at relt.

EndureoMt Uw.

»" ''« «'*•
3. To untiergo ;

the devil.

Common Prayer,

Baon.

As might the llrokes of two fuch arms endure. Drjd.
2. To bear with patience.
So dear I love him, that with him all deaths

;

Defend us from the danger of the enemy.

Ungiblc parts, which make them not only hand, but

1.

Sbakeff eare' i King Lear

He that defignedly nfes ambiguities, ought to be
looked on as an enemy to truth and knowledge. Locke.
Bold is the critick, who dares prove
Thele heroes were no friends to love
And bolder he who dares aver.
That they were enemies to war.
Prior.

broken.
The hardnefs of bodies Is caufed chiefly by the

fragile, and left enduring of preffurc.

Mall.

levolence ; not a friend.
Kent in difguife,

un-

jejunenefs of the fpirits, and their imparity with the

fay unto you, love your enemiet.

Any one who regards another with ma-

3.

Many words deferve to be thrown out of our language, and not a few antiquated to be
rcftored, on
account of their energy and found

To pant, or tremble through an eunuch 's throat. Pope.

A
I

it acquires a
greater life and energy, ravilhing and
captivating the hearers.
Holder.

On each enervate ftring they taught the note.

A

Ail thefe ftatutes fpeak of EnglilJi ftbels and Irilh
enemies, as if the Irilh had never been in condition
of fubjedls, but always out of the protedlion of
the
'»*•
Daviei on Ireland.
The enemy thinks of raifing threcfcore thoufand
men for the next fummer.
Addifan on tie kVar.
z.
private opponent; an antagonift.

rare, Latin.]

To bear;

Harvey on the Plague,
[en?umi, French; iuimkus,

Latin.]
publick foe.

I.

ToEUDU'KE. -v. a. [enJurer,Fteach; du1.

To kill

Some plagues partake of fuch a pernicious degree
of malignity, that, in the jnannerof amoftprefen.
taneous poifon, they enecate in two or three hours,
fuddenly corrupting or extinguilhing the vital fpirits.

Ihould have ta'en fome pains to bring together

Without«i/»ra«« further.

and

to deftroy.

Obfolete.

Yourfelf and jrour accufers, and have heard you,

Ereftly;

cabbin5,madeof poles fetendwife. Rayon theCrrat.

To E'nec ATE. 'V. a. [eneco, Lat.j

endur.ance oi iiKk higher troubles, to fecure himfelf
from a condition in6nitely more miferable?
Saulb.

4. Delay; procraftination.

made by fpeech ; and, when animated by elocution,

latter.

A rude and unpolilhed America, peopled with

laftingnefs.

tinuance, others more late and of lefs endurance.

;

flothful and naked Indians, living in pitiful huts

Some of them are of very great anti(]uity and con-

^mprehenfive Englilh energy f
Ro/commen.
o
Swift and ready and familiar communication
ii

Spenfer.

Continuer

E'ndwise. adv. [end and tui/e.]
uprightly ; on end.

'\

Continuance;

Who did ever, in French authours, fee

for the

meft
part great enduren of cold, labour, hunger, and
all

Tllloifen.

1.

E N F

They are very valiant and hardy ;

[Fr.]

A ftrait pailage;

any thing through which a right line may
be drawn. Military term.
7a En fii.a'de. •!/.«. [from the noun.] To
pierce in a right line.

The avenues being cut through the wood in right
lines, were enjiladed by the Spanilh cannon.

Expedition to Cartbagena,

TeENFi'RE,

-v.

a,

[from /;<.]

To tire j

to fet on fire ; to kindle.
Obfolete.
So hard thofc heavenly beauties he enjir'd,

A« things divioe, leaft paflions du imprers.

Stcnftr.

T»

E N F
7'jFnfo'«.ce.

To give ftrength to

I.

Tht idle ftrofcc, enforcing furious w»yi
Mifling the mirk of his miUimcd fight,
Fairy S^tjetn.
Did fall to ground.
Som-thnes with lunatk bans,
jfrxy'n

4. To inlligatc;
•to .iiumate.

to urge on ;

7oEnfra'nchise. 1). a.

To urge with energy.

to a draught at a meal ; and, la(l:y, to difcontinuc
altogether: but if a man have the fortitude and refolution to enfrancbife himfelf at once, that is the

Shakffp, Coriolafius.

He prevailed with him, by enforcing the ill conthe office, which

refufal to take

would be interpreted to his

If they won a battle, prifoners became flaves, and

Clarendon.
To avoid all appearance of difaffedion, I have
taken care to enforce loyalty by an invincible argu-

meat.

Sivi/t,

To compel

6.

;

To prefs with a charge.

Little ufed.

In this point charge him home, that he alfeils
Tyrannick pow'r : If he evade us there.
Enforce him with his envy to the people.
And that the fpoils got on the Antiates
Was ne'er diilributed>
Shukefb. Corlolanus.

Did hold his eyes lockt in her cryllal looks.

— Belike,

th.it now (heliath enfnincbis'd them,
Upon fome other paw« for fealty
Sbakefpeare.
4. To denizen; to endenizen.

Thefc woids have been enfrancbifed amongft us.
Watli.

which may neceifarily enor of God, doth enjoin

ftrength.

n. /.

[iiom force,']

Povk-er ;

Not ufed.

He now dcKcs thee thrice to fingle fight,
As a petty enterprife of fmall enforce,

Milion.

[from enforce.'] By
violence ; not voluntarily ; not fpontaneoufly; not by choice.

E^fFo'RCEULT, adv.

His coming hither hath no farther fcopc,
Than for his lineal royalties, and to b:g
Enfranchifement immediate on hij knees, Shakef

Enfro'zen. particip. [from /)-o3^«. ] Congealed with cold.

That no one drop of pity there doth rell.

Sbakeffeare't Timon.

Enfo'rcement. ti.f. [from er/force.]

An aft of violence

;

compuluon ;

To ENGAGE.
1

force

that which gives force to a

i>.

We have, in expence, exceeded our engagemeiitf.

z.

This pradticc may be obvious to any who impar*
and without engagement, is at the pains to
examine.
Svifi,
4. Employmentof the attention.
tially,

Play, cither by our too conftant or too long engage*
ment ill it, becomes like an employment or profcllion.

Rogers,

Sptnfer.

have engag'd myfcif to a dear friend,

To impawn

;

The

rewards and punifliments of anol'her

life,

which the Almighty has eftablilhed as the tnfnrce-

wn/jof hislaw, are of weight enough to determine
the choice.

3.

To

To

On the firm land.

fumption of our flelh to his divinity, was an enforcement beyond all the methods of wifdom that
were ever made ufe of in the world.
Hammond

llie ei15.fl certainly

5.

4. Prefling exigence.
Mure than I havefaid.

The leifure and enforcement of the time
I'wbids to dwell on.

this o^jcclion of iiiconfuipptiblc lights,

Shtkef, Rid. Ill,

6.

I

would

gain.

;

an

To impri-

fon ; to confine.
Within my mouth you have engaol'd my ton^o,
Douhlyportcullis'd with my teeth and lips.' Sbakef.

To Enga'rrison. v. a. [horn garrifon.]

To proteft by a garrifon.
Neptune with a guard doth engarrifon licr ftrongly.

To Ence'nder. -v. a. [engendrer, French.]
1. To beget between diffeieot fexes.
TJiU ballard love is enrenderej betwixt luft itA
I

idlcnefs.

2.

;

to win by pleafing means ; to

To produce
Oh nature

;

to form.

thou, who of the felf.fame mettle.

I

Whereof thy proud child, arrogant man i%putVt,
Engender'^ the black toad and ailjer blue.

Sbakef,
Again, if fouls do other fouls btget,
*Tis by themfelvcs, or by the b;)dy's pow'r
If by tbemfclvc:^, what doth their working let.
But they might fouls enaender ev 'ry hour ? Davies,
:

fee

to make adlierent.
Good-naturc engages every body to him. Addifon.

To induce

to forfeit

Hamm,

ToEi^ G a'ol. t). a. [from gaol.]

F)ighy.

averred.

To unite; to attach

Philips,

6. Obligation ; motive.
This is the %tCib:A engagement not

that we lilted not to complain, fincc our complaints
could not but carry the greatclt accufation to ourHidnty.
felves.
Before I engage myfcif in giving any anfwei to

The peribtul defcent of God himfcif, and his af-

A word \ztj

HoiL-el.

Thofe that engag'd their lives for them. Hudibrai.
enlift ; to bring into a party.
3.
Ail wicked men are of a party ag.iinll religion
fome lult or intercllf'r^^'^f/i them .igainll it. TilLlf.
embark in an affair.
4.
So far had we f«^«^'iourfelvcs, unfortunate fouls,

l.ocke.

battle.

poetical.
Our army, led by valiant Torrifmond,
Is now in hot engagement with the Moors. Dryden,
Encourag'd by defpair, or obllinate
To fall like men in arms, fome dare renew.
Feeble engagement, meeting glorious fate

to ftake.

They moft perfidioufly condemn

Motive of convidion; urgent evidence.

Fight ; conflift ;

5.

:

lanr.

Adherence to aparty or caufe ; partiality.

3.

French.]

[^engager,

a.

Engag'd my friend to his mere enemy.
To feed my means. Suakefpean's Mercb. of Venice,

offered.

Zs Sanftion ;

The aft of engaging, impawning, oe

making liable to a debt.
2. Obligation by contraft.

To make liable for a debt to a creditor.

I.

Confcfs 'twas hers, and by what rough enforcem-nt
You got it from her.
Sbakcfpeare.
He that contendeth againft thefc exforccmrntt,
may eafily maderor refill tl>cm. Raleigh' t HiJIory.

ment, French.]
1.

opportunity.

Thou haft enffoxen her difd.iinful bread,

Doll it enforcedly : thou'dll courtier be,

I.

Not ufed.

Yet to augment the anguilh of my finart.

If thou did'ft put this fow'r cold habit on.

Wert tliou not beggar.

Eng&'geme NT. nf. [iiomengage, engage-

2. Releafe from prifon or from flavery.
Never did captive with a freer heart
Call oil* his chains of bondage, and embrace
His golden unconuouVd enfrancbifeme/it.
Sbakef.

To caftigate thy pride, 'twere well, but thou

to enlift ia

'Tis not indeed my talent toeegage
In lolt) trifles, or to Ivvell my page
With wind and noifc.
Dryden't Pcrfiitt,

Couiel.

corporation,

Hooker,

the contrary.

5

any party.

made partaker of thole liberties that appertain to the

_/<>;<-( that the law of reafon,

Clarendon.

To ciubark in any bufmefs

Atterbury^
_

Inveftiture of the privilege of a denizen.
The incorporating a man into any rL>ciety, or body
politick.
For example, he that is by charier made
denizen of England, is faid to be entranchifed ; and
fo is he that is made a citizen of London, or other
city, or burgcfs of any town corporate, becaufe he is

to fhew beyond contradiction.
Which laws in fuch cafe we muft obey, unlefs

Enfo'rce.

with it.
2,

*

cbife.]
1.

to fight.

Upon advciurement of the Scots amy, the earl
of HalU:id was fent with a body to meet and engage

En»Ra'nchiseMENT. n.f. [from enfran-

ToEnfo'rce. f. «. To prove; to evince;
there be reafon fliewed,

Toconflid;

J.

To free or releafe from cuftody.

to conllrain.

Pope^

JeENG a'ge. -v. ».

His miftreft

For competence of life I will allow you.
That lack of means ^(j/ocft- you nottoevil. Sbakefp.
A juli difd'iin conceived by that queen, that fo
wicked a rebel Ihould prevail againll her, did move
and almolt enforce her to fend over that mighty
army.
Vav,es on Ireland,

7.

Fori fliall fing of battles, blood, and rage.

Which princes and tlteir peorlc did engage. Drjden,
10. To encounter; to ^ght.
The rebel knave, who dares his prince erg.ige.

continued foin tlieir generations, m\Wiienfiamuiffd
Temple.
by their mafters.
3.

he waa

deeply engaged in converfation.
g. To employ ; to hold in bufinefs.

Bacon's Ejfays.

bell.

dillike of the court.

as,

:

Proves the juft viftim of his royal rage.

Men, forbearing wine, come fr"m drinkinghealths

Your ignorant clediion ; itiforee his pride,

Atlerbury^

To feize by the attention

8.

To fet free from flavery.

2.

and we have cvco exceeded our engagement.

[from//-<i»f^j/f.]

The Englilhcolonifis, and fome feplsofihc Irifliry,
nfranchijcd by fpecial diartcrs were admitted to
the beneHt of the laws.
Davies.
Romulus was the natural parent of all thofe people
th.it were the tirft inhabitants of Rome, or of diofe
that were after incorporated ani enfranchifed into
Hale.
that name, "city, or government.

All revoke

fcijueace of his

clining any expence to which we had engaged our.
felvei,

To admit to the privileges of a freeman

1.

Fear gave her wings, and rage tnforc'd my flight
Fairy Hiuetn.
If you knew to whom you Hiew this lionour,
1 know you would be prouder of the work.
Than cullomary bounty can ttijhrce you.
Shait/f.

A;)d his old hate to you.

We have been Hrm to our allies, without de-

"

F'aiiy ^ueen,

Sbakrff.

Prior.

To bind by any appointment or contraft.

7.

The bell-bred bcall thicw lorih uuio tlie Ikies.

;

So thinking on ihy charming youth,

Heart cannot think what courage and what crieti

Tiirougl) woods and plains.

5.

So (hall I court thy dearcft truth.

When beauty ceafes to engage
I'll love it o'er again in age.

With (oMenfiu/dred fnio.ik and rialhing hre.

to provoke ;

WalUr,
His beauty thefe, and thofe hit blooming age,

The rell his houfe and his own fame engage. Dry J,

Hammond.

forcer of the fiiil motion of it.

fomclimes with

3. 'I'o put \n\i\ by .violence.
Skcr away as fivift as ftoncs
Efifrrccii from ihcold Affyrian flings.

Provoke their courage, and command (heirra{t,

EsFo'uLDRHD, aJj, [homfinflre, French.]
Mixed with lightning. Obfolete.

ShtktfpcAre' s King Lear.

Knforct their charity.

/.

To vi'vf duly he could minds txgtjt.

Cotti-

[(torn ettfirfe.]

pcller ;

invigorate.
?. To make or gain by force.

a»,

one who ctfefts by violence.
VVhcn a man tumbles a cj linder or roller down an
hill, 'lis certain tiiat the man is the violent en-

to ilrengthen ; to

j

E N G

E N G
Rkpo'rcbR.

[f»/Ji-i;V, French.]

•». rt.

3.

To excite

;

Say, can you

to caufe
to produce.
Your fiomaclis arc too young,
;

fall ?

And abftinence engenden maladies.
Sbakefpeare.
The prcfcnce ot a king engenders love
AmoDgll hisl'ubjc^ and his loyal friends. Sbakefp.
ThiK

Th»t tngejfifrs rhonder in his breaft.

To fwallow up.
any (enfe.

1.

And malces him roar thcfc accufarions forth. Shake/.
It unloads

engenders thoughts, and
Addijln.

the mind,

animates virtue.

To be caufed

ToEnge'nder. <v.n.

to

;

be produced.
Thick clouds »re fpread, and ftorms engender there.
Dryden,

£,r^/wrjandfwallowsotlicr forrows.
Sbakefpeare,
Certainly, thou artfo near the gulf,
Shake/. IfenryV.
Thou needs muft be engiuttej.
How many prodigal bits have Haves and pe<ilants
This night englutied!
Sbaie/peare't Tinun,

111 feemly fort their corfcs to

movements and parts concur to

To fill.
,

To glut; to pamper.

3.

to prick.

a throat.]
gorge.

They had ih^ efpecial engines been, to rear,
His fortunes up into tlic Hate they were.
Daniel.
».

[cHgiugitier,

/.

To En'go'rce. I", tt.

Sbakefpeare't Hamlet,

Him thus cnrag'd.
Deferring from afar, fome engineer,
Dext'rous to guide th' unerring chaige, defign'd.
Philips.
By one nice (hot, to terminate the war.

An aiiThor, who points his fatire at a great man,
is like

the engineer who lignalized himTclf by this

To fatten

4.

Shakf/,
But praying, toenrich his watchful foul.
feize in the grofs ; to feize the whole

; to plump up.
Not fleepiog, to engro/s his idle body;

To

of any thing.

Dyed in lilie white and crimfon red.
With leaves engrai/i'd in lully green.
Spen/.
To Encrapfle. v, a. [dom gra/i/>/e.] 'I'o
clofe with) to contend with hold on each

5.

I

Daniel.

[from gra/p.]
To
feize ; to hold fad in the hand ; to gripe.
a.

Ekgro'sser.
that

commodity,
price.

Whiles Cuyon (landing by, their uncoutli flrife does

the feeding

pair,

[enjlcf, Saxon.]
Belonging to England ; thence Engli.t is
the language of England.

He h^ih neither Latin, Fiench, nor Italian ; and
you may come into the court, .inj fwear that 1 have
a poor pennyworth in th: Eiziifl>.
Sijaltrfprare.
Of Englijb tale, the coarfer fort i> cal>d ;>lairter,

2.

'io

engraveu. [engraver,

whit the Latins call anethum, and properly <//g//yZ>r^ dill.
Brvwn.
Jii Enclu t. -v. a. [enghutir, French.]

bitant acquifition.
honey

O'er all, the heav'n's refulgent image (hines
On either gate were (ii engraven figns.
Addi/on.
Names Irelli ingfjv^d appcar'd of wits rcnown'd ;
I look'd again, not could their trace be found. Pope.

Are murdcr'd for our pains

it

to the hive ; and, like the bees,
I

This bitter tafte

Yield his engroj/ments to the dying father. Shake/p.
Thofe held their immoderate engroj/tnentsoi^awzi
and favour by no other tenure than prefumption.

To mark wood or flone.

fccm

pciTil>lc,

Ap-

propriation of things in the grofs ; exor-

Svilfr.

that

To Engua'rd.

Not ufed.
A hundred knights

God (hfluld enin

words of un-

To

!

yes, that on ev'ry dream

He may f»fg<rar</ his dotage with their pow'rs,
Shake/. King Lear.
And hold out lives at mercy.

/..ocke.

Pounds which addrcfi the ear, are loft and die
l&snt Sauil hjui ; but lliai which Itiikcf the eye,

a. [from guard.]

t'.

proteft; to defend; to furround as guards.

To Enha'nCE. v.

a,

[hatij/er,

enhau/fer,

To lift up; toraifeon high.

A fenfc

French.]

Aller^ury,
'

numerous body of

Our thighs are pack't with wax, our mouths with

Our Saviour makes this return, fit to be engraven in the heart:, of all promoters of charily.

is

this

Engro'ssment. »./. [from Mrg-ro/},]

We bring

certain (ignification.

Bjc,n.

We find not a word in the tent can properly be

fell

warchoufes, fet the price upon the poor landholder.
Locke,

or

grave principles, in men's minds,

The liollow inftrument terebra, we may englijl

and fupplyiiig

And ivritethe battles of his great godhe.id. Fairy ^.

It will fcarce

tranflatc into Englifh.

in order to

a, preter. engra'ved; part,

engra'ved

Engrave the two Hones with the names.
Ex. xxviil. II.
3. To imprefs deeply ; to imprint.

IVondiuard,

of any
it at a high

workmen in the woollen manufaflurcs, out of their

Like a bread table, did itfelf difpread.
For love hn lofty triumphs to engrave.

ETCGLISH. adj,

He

engrc/s.]

quantifies

A new fort of engrojjirs, or foreflallers, having

French.)
'1 o piftureby incifions
in any matter.
Her ivory forehead, full of bounty brave,

1.

iibakefpeate.

I0 E'nclish. v. a. [from the noun.]

I,',

[from

large

Spen/.

fee.

ToEngra've.

n. /.

purchafes

And him affronted with impatient might;
And both together fierce *»^r*i/jE»f(^ he.

To en-

Shake/.

A clerk, foredoom 'd his father's ibul to crofs.
Pop",
Who pens a ftaiiza when hethould engru/s.

Now 'gall Pyrocles wax as wood as he,

For what's more mii'erabic than discontent ? Sbakefp.
That gold muli nnind engirt thetc brows of mine.

o purchafe the whole of an)' commo-

dity for the fake of felling at a high price.
6. To copy in a large hand.
Here is the iudidmcnt of the good lord H.iftingt.

Which in a fct hand fairly is engro/s'd.

other.
There (hall young Hotfpur, with a fury led,

To LxGRASP. i\

thou engrojfcft all the gtiefs as thine,
Sbake/peare,

Thofc two great things that fo engre/s the defiles
and deligns of both the nobler and ignobler fort of
mankind arc to be found in religion; namely,
South,
wifdomand plcalure.
A dog, a parrot, or an ape.
Or fome woric brute. in human fliape,
Sivi/i,
Engro/s the fancies of the fair.

To Encr a'i n. 1'. n. [from grain'] To die
deep ; to die in gram.
See thou how frcih my flowers being fpttad.

My heart is drown'd with grief,
M/ body round ^fl^.'Vr with mileft;

Vol, I.

3.

twenty hues.
Chapman's Jlitids.
Polwhecl beareih a faultier <r;>^ir//',/.
Car,^L>.

compafs.

rendered anife, which

grojfed 10 our fight, yet they arc truly weakened in
H'otton,
thcmfelves.

j^acides then Qicws

Milton.

circle; to furround; to environ ; to en-

piercer.

Engro/'d with mud, whichd:J them foul agrieft,
That every weighty thing tliey did upbear. Fairy S^.
2. To encreafe in bulk.
Though pilbrs, by channeling, be feemingly m~

A long lance, and a caldron, new, engrail'd with

Approaching, grofs and huge, in kollow cube
Training his dev'hlh enginery,
ATiltcn.

or parget ; the finer, fpoad.

But more happy he than wife.

Of that Tea's natuiedid him not avife;
The waves thereof fo llo\v and llufgilh were,

I r

2. Engines of war ; artiller)-.
Wc faw the loe

To Enci'ru. '•J- a. [from gird,~\

To Engro'ss. -v. a. [grq/Jir, French.]
to make thick.
1. To thicken

Thnu robb'll m« of a moiety.

Engrappleviilh thy fon, as fierce as he.

tion, architecture, enginery, or navigation.

^

Aches, and hurts, and cords, do engrieve either
Bacon's Nat. HiJI.
towards rain, or towards froft.

for to indent in curve lines,

E'nci N ERY. »./. [from eng'ine.^
1. T lie aA of managing artillery.
They may defcend in mathem^uicks to fortifica-

Spe'/er.

To devour; to feed

Gitcdiiy flie engorg'd without rellraim.

Aidi/on.

ungeiKious pradice.

Spen/r.

And knew not eating death ?
Milton's Par. I^fi.
To Engra'il. 1; a. [{mm gre/e, French,
hail.]
To variegate; to fpot as with
hail. A word now nfcd only in heraldry,

of an army.

IloiH with hii own petard.

Rankled fo fore, and feftet'd inwardly.

Frcncii,

with eagemefs and voracity ; to riot.

French.]

For 'tis the fport to have the engineer

The gnawing anguifh, and (harp jealoufy,
Which his fad fpccch infixed in my breaft.

devour ; to

Tliat is the gulf of grcedincfs, they fay.

One who manages engines: one who direfts the artillery

; to

Tlien fraught with rancour and engorged in.

efFecl.

Encine'ek.

To fwallow

That deep engcrgeth all this world is prey.

In contempt.

To

to difconfolate.

;

To Engo'rge, 'V. a. [from jfor^?,

>

Ufually in an ill fenfc.
Prayer mull be divine and heavenly, which the
devil with all his engines io violently oppofeth.
Duppa^s Ruleif'jr Devotion.

;

That my engrieved m\ai could find no rell. Fairy

Forgets with wary ward them to await.
But with hisdreadful horns them drives afore. Spen/.

fkoi fomc, more bold, mount laddcr&to the lire.

5. Any means ufed to bring to pafs, or to

pain ; to vex ; to afflift

Not ufed.

He call at once him to avenge for all,

Dryden,

Hair,

in the foul.

;

'

He ukes the fciffars, and extends
The Httie engine on his finger ends.
Fi>fe.
4. Any initruraent to throw water upon
barning houfes.
Some cut the pipes, uidlbme the »r^''Ki play;

To pierce

as the

itfelf,

To EngrigVe. V, o. [from grieve.]

,.

As favage bull, whom two 6erce maflifls bait,
When rancour doth with rage him once engorcf

The fword, the arfow, the gijn, with many ttrriblc fM^/«?i of death, v> iTl be well employed. RMtigb,

ter in ftone or other matter.
Images are not made in the brain

Being once englumd with vanity, he will llrai^Uway loath all learning.
A/cham^s Schoo'mitjler.

This is our engine, towers that overthrows;
Our fpear that hurts, our fwoid that wounds our dots.
Fm<f.
3. Any inftrument.

An agent for another.

;

engrave,

And deck with dainty flowers their bridal bed. Spen/.
Engra'ver. ft. /. [from engrave,] A cut-

pencil of a painter or e»^rai/fr makes the images in
the table, but ate imprinted in a wonderful method

Againfl themlclves turning their u^rathfulfpight.
Spin/cr.
_

To Eng o'm. 'V. a. [from gore.']

A military machine.

6.

The fun had charge of them, now being dead,

Whofe grieved minds, which cholerdid engJur,

one effeft.
2.

to inter.

n. /. [engitt, French ; ingegm,

Any mechanical complication, in which

To bury; to inhume,;

[frsra grave.]

4.

Hilh rais'd me from mji bed; nor doth the general
Take hold on me lor my particular grief

2.

Italian.]

various

:

.

Prior.

r.

Lives long upon the mind the faithful (ight
Engraves the knowledge with a beam of light, ti'aiti.

:

Vice engenders ftiame, and foUy brood's o'er grief.

E'NGINE.

now little ufed in

It is

Neither my place, nor ought I heard of bufincfs,

To bring forth.

4.

E N H

E N G

E N G

I.

now obfoU'tCi
4 R

»otl«

Monkt and philofophers, and fuch as do contiBacon's Natural Hijlory.
nually enjoin themfelvcs.
It endeavours to fccurc every man's intereit, by
enjoining that truth and fidelity be inviolably prc-

B«th of them high at once their hands ntanc'J,

And both at onte their huge blows down did fway.

To raife; to advance;

Z,

to heighten in

The defire of money is every where the fame

its

!

vent vdries very liitlc, but as its greater rcan.'ity entancti its price, and incrtafes the fcramble. Lcickc.

To raife in efteem.
What is

it

but the experience of want that

f<r-

To aggravate; to increafe from bad to

To feel or perceive with pleafure; to
have a pleafing fenfe of; to be delighted
with.

1.

To believe or pretend that whatever our hearts

I could enjoy the pangs of death,

Incite is the will of God within us, is the principle
of villainy that hath afled in the children of dif-

obedience, enbaneed and improved with circumftances of greater impudence than the mod aboHammond.
minable heathens were guilty of.
The relation which thofe children bore to the

Their yearly rents arc not improved, the landlords making no lefs gain by tines than by enhance-

He, who, to enjoy

and adjudging a reward to

Enjo'yment. ?/./. [from f»/oy.] Pleafure;

darkly ex-

happinefs ; fruition.
His hopes and expeditions are bigger than his en-

Your anfwer, fir, is entgmatieal.
Enigmatical deliveries comprehend

Shakefp.
ufcful

vc-

To fet on fire; to inflame

being m'lftaken by liberal ejtpolitors at

Srrt, they have been mifunderltood by moll fince.

Jiro^vn's ru/gar Erroups.
enigmalica/ obfcurity, they

•uz2le the readers of their divulged proceffes. Sojie.
Athenzus gives inftances of the enigmaticaJ propofttions in ufe at Athens, and of the forfeitures
and rewards upon the folution or nonfoluiion.
Brocire'j Notes on the Odyjfey.

The king afterwards enlarged the condant obe*
dience of the city with enlargement both of liberties
Hayward..
and of revenues.
The ocean, which fo long our hopes contiu'd.

Fearing to ftrengthen that impatience.
Which feem'd too much enkindled.

Sbakeffeare.

Do you not hope your chiidicn (hall be kings.
Promis'd no lefs to them ?
That, trulled home.
Might yet enkindle you unto the crown.

Shukrfp.

To Enlarge. T. a. \cnlargir, French.]

their enlargement and deliverance arifc to the Jews
from another place.
EJlher, iv. 14,
3. Magnifying reprcfentation.

And all who told it, added fomething new;
And all who heard it, made enlargetncnn [00. Pope,
4. Expatiating fpeech ; copious difcourfc.
He concluded with an cnUrgtment upon the vices
and corruptions which were got into the army.

To make greater in qi»antity or appear-

1

Clarendon.

Enlarger. »./. [from txhrge.]

ance.

The wall, in luftre and eflfcfl like glafs.
Which o'er each objcdl catling various dyes,

fier;

thing.

We Ihall not contentioufly rejoin, but confer what
in us unto his name and honour, ready to be
fwallowed in any worthy enlarger.
£rov.n.
is

To Enli'ght. f. /7. [from

to be huaidcd up, there men will
not be apt to enlarge their polTelTions of land Locke.

and fo valuable

3.

authoritative than direil, and lefs imperious th.".n command.

4.

To encreafe by reprcfentation

;

;

to

Enllghts the prefent, and

O ye Corinthians, our mouth
5.

(hall

warm the lad. Popt,

To ENi.i'GHTEN..a', a. [from //fM]

expand.
is

our heart is enlarged.

To fjtiify the good old man,

To il-

lighten.
VVit from the fiift has (hone on ages pad,

to mag-

nify ; to exaggerate.

To dilate

i'ghf.]

luminate; to fupply with light; to en-

.

To ENJCIN. -u. a. \enjpindre, French.] To
direft; to order; to prefcribe. It is more

Ampli-

dilates any.

Pope.

extend.
Where there is fomcthing both lading and fcarce,

That 1 roay deal more ingenuoufly with my reader

one that encreafes or

To encteafe any thing in magnitude ; to

Enlarges fome, and others multiplies.
2.

Shakefp.

If thou holded thy peace at the time, then (halt

When thofe who gave the thane of Cawder to me,

than the abovcmentioiied c-m^wa///? has done, I Ihall
Addijon,
prefcnt him with a key to my riddle.

Mmi Mi.

Lieutenant,

At our enlargement what are thy due fees ?

To incite to any aft or hope.

Brocite.

would' bend under any heavy weight
Hbaliijf.
ih*l ht 'U rV"'" »« »•

S-U'ift.

Your hand
Gave fign for me to leave you : fo I did,

liomer fpeaks enigmatically, and intends that
thefe monliers are merely the creation of poetrv.

Eni'gm.'Ctist. n.f. [from r^/fwa.] One
who deals in obfcure and ambiguous matters; maker of riddles.

M-'oodti.'ard.

The commons in Rome generally purfued the en-

2. Releafe from confinement or fervitude.

flame.

Faith here is the alTent to thofe things which come

fenfe different from that which the
words in their familiar acceptation imply.

by the rivers.

largement of their power by more let quarrels of ona
entire aifembly againd another.
Sivift.
The Greek tongue received many enlargements
between the time of Homer and that of Plutarch.

Edmund, enkindle all the fparks of nature
Shakcff. Kin^ Lear.
2. To roufe paflions; to fet the foul into a

10 us by hearing, and are fo believed by adherence,
01 dark enigmatical knowledge, but hereafter are
Hammond,
feen or known demonftratively.

a

IKsHer,
Nor hath he left us pris'ners to our iile.
There never were any iHands, or other confider-

to put in a

;

:

able parcels of lard, amafTed or heaped up; nor any
enlargement, or addition of earth, made to the con*
tincnt by the mud that is carried down into the fea

To quit this horrid ai£l.

3.

Enicma'tically. /7i/i'. [from <»/>/««.] In

Could give no limits to his vafter mind

Our bounds enlargement was his latetl toil.

flame.

Cloudy; obfcurely conceived or apprehended.

I

fion.

ToEnki'nulb. -v. a. [from kindle.]
1.

Raleigh,

Encreafe; augmentation; farther exten-

1.

'Jillatjon.

joyments.

preffed.

mighty empire, which

fell out among themfelves.

DiB.

Pofe.

a

to have been enlarged, until they

Enla'rgement. n.f. [itom enleirge.]

Milton,

has fruition or poffefTion.

Enigma'tical. ailj. [homeetiigma.']

2.

was in a fair way

One that

enjoy.]

delight not ta

it were
Decay of Piety,

The caliphs obtained

I exlinft.

1

To be further extended.

2.

Then I (lull be no more
And Adam, wedded to another Eve,

[from

a fcheme fo unpleafant,

extinct.

To ENjo'y. -v. ft. To live in happinefs.
Shall live with her enjoying,

IS

enlarge OB it; rather with the memory of

More.

A cuftom was amongft the ancients of propoling Enjo'yer. n. f.

Whilil they aflefl

This

de-

is

Clarendon.

to enlarge upon any of thefe particulars.

I

him that folved it.

To expatiate; to fpeak in many words.
They appointed the chancellor of the Exchequer

When a man (hall, with a fober, fedate, diabolical
rancour, look upon and enjoy himfelf in the fight
of his neighbour's fin and (hame, can he plead the
South.
inlligation of any appetite in nature ?

From facrilege will free the god's command. Dryd.

•itics; but

Clarendon,

Milton's Ptradife Lojl.

to ferve us.

;

the invidious infinuations they could devrfc.

To Enla'rce. "v. «.

Creatures arc made to enjoy themfelvcs, as well as

A meaning; which, if well I underftand,

or

all

1.

with the reciprocal pronoun, and
rived from enjouir.

The dark er.ifma will allow

ambiguoufly

Enlitrge the man committed yeftcrday,

That rail'd againll our pcrfon. Shakefp. Henry V.
9. To AifFufe in eloquence.
They enlarged themfelvcs upon this fubjeft wjth

3. Topieafi:; to gladden; to exhilarate ; to
This fenfe is ufual
glad; to -delight.

Bacim.
ment of rents.
_
^
2. Aggravation ; increafe of ill.
Jocular llanders have, from the flightnefs of the
temptation, an enbanciment of guilt.
Government of the Tongue.
ENI'GMA. ». /. [eetiigma, Lat. amy /«-«.]

apofition
exprefled in remote and ambiguous terms.

To relcafe from confinement.

8.

Plato's elyfium, leap'd into the fea,

Cleombrotus.

Encreafe; augmentation of value.

a part of extciifion or duration as excluded divitibility, that would be the indivifible unit, or idea ; by
repetition of which it would make its n.ore enlarged
Locke,
idtas of exteiiQon and duration.

Edward the laint, in whom it pleafed God, righteous and juft, to let England fee what a blefling Cn
Hooker,
and iniquity would not fuffer it to enjoy.

Enha'ncement. n.f.\\.ict\a enhance.^

A riddle; an obfcurequeftion

Addifon's Cato.

To obtain pofleffion or fruition of.

2.

Alurbiiry.

increafe their puniihment.

Obfcure;

to aggrandife.
This is that fcience wliich would truly enlargt
Locke.
men's minds, were it fludicd.
Could the mind as in number, come to fo fmall

•

And fmilc in agony.

priefthood, contributed to enkance their guilt, apd

1.

To amplify;

7.

TiENJO'y. v. a. [Jucir, enkuir, French,]

worfe.

at feftivals,

Di-

word of God,

whi<;h defire hath begotten an errour, enlarging it
Hooker.
farther than fouiidiiefs of truth will bear.

Critical trial (hould be made by publick emolnmcnt, whereby determination might be fettled beBiown's Vulgar Errours.
yond debate.

L'EJlranfrf,

dergo, will contribute to enhance our pleafure.
/ttlcrtuyy,

an enigma

It hath grown from no other root than only a defire

to enlarge the necelTary ufe of the

Di^.

gives injutiftions.

Enjo'inment. tt. /. [from enjoin.']
redlion
command.

Shakefpeare.

To extend to moPcpurpofes or ufes.

One who

Enju'iner. «r. /. [from«yV».]

The remembrance of the diBRculties we now un-

1.

conltru£ti»n made of her.

6.

;

itf<»r« (he value of plenty?

4.

the enlargtth her mirth fo far, that tliere is (hrewj

'

Tillotfon.

fcrvcd.

price.

3.

E N L

E N L

E N J

open unto you,
2 Cvr, vi. It.

To illuininate; to fupply with light.

I.

To fet free from limitation.
Though Qie s^^u bonelt W ine, yet at other places

is

God will enlighten my darkncfs.

Pfalms,

As the fun (hineth

to the

io there

uo taith but

oik publilhcd, the brightncft

ibis

whole world,

wlicrcof^

E N M
•hereaT muft tnlighten all that come to the knowledge 01 the truth.
Hxker.
2. '1 o quicken in the faculty of vifion,
His cyts were rniighi ed.
Sam.
Love never fails to mafter what he finds |
The fool enUgbtenSj aiid the wife he blinds. Dryden,

4.

To cheer; to exhilarate

;

to gladden.

turn to marble ; to harden.

Enligbi'ncr of my darknefs

Thou haft reveal'd.
3,

!

To Enml'sh.

That Ihall tnmrjh tJiem all.

To Enpi'erce.

3. Difordered ; confufed.
1 (hall find

1 am too fore empierred with his Ihaft
To foar w iih his light lieathers.
Sbatcfptare,

To chain

A giant lliepherd here his flock maintainSf
and

2.

the tire, but very much enlivens it.

To dignify; to a ggrandife

which animates ; that which puts in
tion ; that which invigorates.

mo-

To elevate; to magnify.

.

2.

averlion.
Their being forced to their books, in an a;e at
enmity with all reteaini, has been the reafon why

many have hated books.
Locke,
Contrariety of in terefts or inclinations ;

Bacon.

mentsy fuitabic to the meafurcs of an unltraitncd
goodnefs.

CUnviilf,

1.

The aft of untying a knot.

2.

Solution of a difficulty.

E N o'r M T r

of my country,
ploymenis.

I
»./. [from enormatts.]
Deviation from rule ; irregularity.
2. Deviation from right ; depravity;
.

cor-

There arc many little enormities in the world,
which our preachers would be very glad to fee removed ; but at the fame time dare not meddle with
tbcmi for fear of betraying the dignity of ihe pulpit.
Addijtjn's Guardian.

:

Her feed ihall biuife thy head, ihou bruife hit heel.
Millu:.

3.

Dryden,

3. State of oppofition.

a bare fpcculation that kings may run
into enormities j the p ra^ice may he proved by ex-

Know ye not that the friendihip of the world is

Skai'fleare,

Atrocious crime ; flagitious villaiiy
crimes exceeding the common meafure.
In this fenfe it has a plural.

done enough for me,
two my friends.

ample.

in

making

faculties.

Some great defefts and main errours in his nature,
cuf^oms, and proceedings, he' had enough to do to
fave and help, witli a Uioafarid little iiidulUies and
Bacon.
watches.

Eno'ugh. etdv.
In a fufficient degree;
gives fatisfaftion.

1.

2.

Svjifl.

(jttarrel;

Irregular; out of rule; not regulated by
any Hated raeafure.

in a degree that

Itnotes a flight augmentation of the podegree
as, / atn ready enough /»

fitive

ENO'RMOUS. adj. [enermit, l^tin.]
I.

Pope,
it has
and keeping you
Pope.

Something equal to a man's powers or

2.

It is nut

eirmity with God (

I abjure all rouis, and chufc
T» wage af^ioti the e:ut,:yti'\it' air.

Ihokcr.

I

Firilin thole tielis I fung ll'.c filvan ftrains.
\ will not quarrel w-iili the prefent age :

We (hall ffcak of the particular abufes and enor-

Jn bittereft enmity.
^hdkefiteare': Corlolan:tt.
Between Ihee and the woman I will put
Enmity; and between thine and her feed

whillt

Enough for me that to the lilVning Trains,

ruption.

retrain enormity, no man can warrant.

commii fris you it enmity with heaven, ana will, if
rot forfaken, render you incapable ol it,
IVuU.
4. Malice ; mifchievout attempts.

continued in publick em
Temple.
The indolencyand enjoyment we have, fulliciiii;
for ourprefcnt happinefs, v.'c delircnotto venture ih»
Loike.
change, being content, and fhat is «oi/g/!;.

1.

mities of the government. Spenfer' s Stale of Ireland.
Thai this law will be always fufficicnt to bridle or

J"", 'v. 4.
You muft firmly be convinced, that every fin you

Something fufficient in greatnefs or ex-

1.

cellence.
'Tis enough for me to have endeavoured the union

On a d'iTention 01 a doit break Oiit

may be carried, is

Exo'ugh. «./.

Enoda'tion. »./. [enodatio, Latin.]

mutual malignity.
They (hill within this hour.

H«w {at tKofc controverfies, and appearing enmi-

they by confent feparated, and enlai^ed their pafture.
Loiie.

Exaltation; elevation ;, dignify.

The eternal wifdom enriched us with all emioblc-

]

malevolence

Why wouid'lt thou go, with one confent they cry.
When thou hafVgold enough, and Emily? Dryden.
When there was not room enough for their herds,

tions, therirnoj/rmr/iror advancement in nobility of

a few others.

E'nmitv. n.f.SJiom enemy ; Ziifenemify,

fure; fo as may fatisfy ; fo as may fiiffice.

He added, during parliament, to his former crea-

Not in ufe.
For haviig yet, in his deduflcd fpright,
Some fparks remaining of (hat heav'nly fire.
He it enlumln'd with thai goodly light.
Unto like goodly femblance to afp ire.
Spenfer.

ed a ftibftantive. It is pronounced as if
it were written f7/.v/".]
In a fufficient mea-

lity.

To illumine; to illuminate; to enlighten.

nor my bufinefs to lliew or determine.

prefl'ed or underftood, it may be account-

Enno'blement. »./. [from eurtoL'i',]
1. The aft of raifing to the rank ol" nobi-

j

_fa?M^, Go-

with a fubftantive, it is an adjeftive, of
which e>iri--M is the plural. In other firuations it fccms an adverb ; except that after
tlie verb To hate, or To be, either ex-

X

while oun

;

thick ; getioeg, Dut.] It is not eafy to determine whether this word be an adjective
or adverb; perhaps, when it is joined

land, but only ennobled fome of the coafts thereof
with Ihipwie.ks.
Baton.

Works, as confederates war, with mingled pow'n.
Dryden.
To E K L u 'm I N E . O". «r. [enlitmiiier, French

Decay of Viet;.

by the difciples ?

Eno'uoh. adj. [jenoh, Saxon

entire

None fo lovely, fweetaiid lair,

Botfire th' enHvencr of the general frame«
Is one, its operatioo If ill (he fame :

creatures,

_

overthrow of this mighty hoU.
Scut.
What can ennoble fots, or llaves, or cowards ?
Alas! not all the blood of all the Howards.
i'i,pr,

Or do more fflr;ri5^/p love.
ffjller,
4. To make famous or illuilrious.
The Spaniards could not as invaders land in Ire-

That

enliven.']

our faith, fee the encrmoufntfs of our works, but

God raifed up the fpirit of this great perfon, and
ennabUd his courage and conduct with the

Enli'vener.

•tiaoi thofc ^Inrious

ji. j,
[from €normom,\
Immeafurable excefs.
Then thofe who have no opportunity to examine

wiiatiliould hinder them from meafuring tiie'mafter

3.

2.

Eno'rmoosness.

to exalt ; to

;

4. To make gay or cheerful in appearance.

difpofition ;

One who could ever efpoufe a notion fo enor*
moujly abfurd and feiifelefs, as that the world was
Woodti>ard.
framed by chanec.

raife.

Swifi.

3. To make fprightly or vivacious.

Unfriendly

yond meafure.

Many fair promotions

Thefe great 01 bs thus radically bright,
Primitive founts and origins of light,
Enliven worlds denied to human light.
Priir.
In a gUfs-houl'e the worlcmcn olicn fling in a
fmall cjuantity of frelh coals, which feems to oifturb

Pope's OJy.

Eno'rmouslv. flifo. [{torn enormoui.] Be-

Skakifp.

To make vigorous or aftivr.

iuamity.

Of human birth, in ftature, or in face.

every niath year of one's

Are given daily to ennoble thofe,
That fcarce fome two days lince were worth a noble.

mate.

1.

Far from the reft, and folitary reigns,
A iorm. enarmoi^ ! far unlike the race

life.

;

in bulk the common meaalways ufed with fome degree of
diflikc, or horror, or wonder.

Exceeding

fures :

To Ennoble. 1;, a. \ennMir, French.]
1. To raife from commonalty to nobility.

TiEsLl'vEN. -v. a. [iTomlifi, //ir.]
1
To make quick ; to make alive to ani-

Its principle is in itfelf;

5.

A

y*>i'«.J

are every ninth day of a fitfkncfs ;
titnealicalyeari,

[from

LoITes their remedies.
Shakefper.re's King Lear.
4. ^^'icked beyond the common meafure.

To

1. <7. [from /;>/-ff.]

lime

From this enormous Hate, and feek to give

Shukefpeare's Oibella.

transfix.

Milton's Paradi/t Lofi.

n./.

ble in ihorter tclefcopcs than in longer, becaufc the
fhortcr tranfmit lefs light to the eye.
Newton's Op.

Enni'atical. adj. [t»»i».] Enneatical days

to ; to conneft.
Eitlinki to wade anddefolation. Sh,ihff. Hen. V.

2.

The enormous part of the light in the circumfei»nce of every lucid point, ought to be Icfs difcerni-

And out of her own goodnefs make the net

Inftruftor,

.

lar figure.

Tdnet;

rv. a. [from OT^^.]
to entangle ; to intrap.
So will I turn her virtue into pitch

gracious things

To Enli'nk. v. a. [from link.}

Obfolete.

E:j.ne'agon. n. f. [f"i« and
figure of nine angles.

Illuminator; one that gives light.
O, fcnt from heaven,

I.

To

Their dying lo delay.
Thou do'il rnmarble the proud heart of her,
Whofe lOve before their life they do prefer. Spenfer,

5. To illuminate with divine knowledge.
Thofc who were once enlightetted.
Hebrews,

EvLl'cHTENER. w./. \itom erilighleii.'\

Her virgin fancies, pouring forth more fweets.
Wild above rule, or art, enormous blifs.
Millon,
2. Excurfive ; beyond the limits of a regu-

Alierbury.

To Enma'rbi.e. <i.'./7. [from OTar^Z?.]

S^Batar,

thens.

m.A needs incur the utter «»;/y' of tnany,

power,

knowledge.

*Tis he who etdightens our underftanding, corrects
ournills, and enables us to fubdue our afi'edions to
the law of God.
R,g.

E N O
Nature here
Wanton'd, as in her prime j and plaid at wil!

and the high difpleafure of more.

%. To inltrnft; to furnilh with encreafe of
This doctrine is io agreeable to rcafon, that we
meet with it in the writings of the rniightened hea-

E N O
He who performs his duty in a (latloii of g«at

:

that is, I am rather quarrelfonic

than peaceable.
I
am apt enough to think, that this fame binariumof a Itroiiger and a weaker, like unto mafcur

Wallowing, uowitldy, «i;rm«tr> in their gait.
Milton.

line and femininq,dutU hoUI'm all tiring bodict.&at "f.
i

4 R z.

It

They are now in prifon at Florence ; and. as it is
AdJiJm m Italy.
faid, tteattd haidly exougb.
3. Sometimes it notes diminution ; as, the
fong \t> vr^Vi enough ; that is, not quite

though not much amifs.

4. An exclamation noting fulnefs or fatiety.
Macbeth, beware Macduft"!
Bewar«, the thane of Fife Difmifi me.— ifmwg*.

To make wealthy

1.

'l

And not to feek a queen to make him rich. Shair/p.
Great and glorious Rome queen of the earth,
So far renown'd, and with the fpoils cnricb'd

To fertilife

2.

To (lore

hath precious ftone* to

tdorn it, and of Chrift's miiiillcts no cbpice at all.
Hooker.

Man had fclfidi foes em-a befides,
-That, day and night, for his dellruftion wait. Milt.
My conquering brother will have flaves erutv.
Drydm.
To pay his cruel vows for viiftory.
There are at Rome ouno modern works of archiAdMfon
tefture to employ any reafonable man.

EN'PASSANT. ad'v. [French]. By the way.
ToEnra'ge.
irritate ;

'v.a.

[rara^?/-,

French.]

To

The juftice of their quarrel (hould not fo much
tncourage as emage them, being to revenge the
difhonour done to their king, and (0 chaftife deceitHaywjrd.
ful enemies.
Enrdg'd at this, upon the bawd I flew;
And that which molt enrag'd me was, 'twas true.
IValJh.

Te Enra'ngh. f. a, [from range.']
place regularly ;

to put into order.

Three ranlts of iron teeth enrtngcd were. Fairy Q^
As fair Diana, in frclh fummcr'sday.
Beholds her nymphs exrang'd in Ihady wood.

TiENRAPT. -v.a. {itomrapt:

exemplify; to fhew by example; to give
us a copy.

To ripen;

To Ensa'nguine.

To En s c H e'd u L E

I

a.

[from raptun.]

To tranfport with pleafure;

to delight

highly.
n.

throw into extafy ;

[from raii/i.]

To

to tranfport with de-

light.

What wordf r,
Frail men, whofc eyes feck heavenly things to fee,
Hpenfer.
At fight thereof fo much rnravijh'd be ?

Bnra'vishment. n, f. [from

eitra-vij^j.]

Extafy of delight.
They contrail a kind of fplendour from the fcemingly obfcuring vail, which adds ioi\\z enyavijhmenis
VUnville'tScep.
of her tranfported admirers.

To En RHEUM. 'V.a. \enrhumer, French,]
To have rheum through cold.

To record

;

Shakefpeare,

A fort of errour to enfconce
Abfurdity and ignorance,
This he courageoufly invaded.
And having enter'd, barricado'd,
Enfconc'd himfelf as formidable
As could be, underneath a table.

S-wift.

to leave in writing.

To Ense'am. 'V.a,

\i113xnfeam.]

Hudibras.

JJudlbrar.

To fow

up; toenclofe by a feam or junflure of
needlework,

A name engraved in the reveftiary of the temple,
one Hole away, and atfeamcdk on his thigh. Camden^

To Ensea'r.

Huge (lame, that dimmed all the heaven's light,
Enrotl'd in dulktih fmoak and brimflone blue.
Fairy ^ueen.

'V.a. [from fettr,]

To caute-

to llanch or ilop with tire.
Enfear thy fertile and conceptions womb
Let it no more bring out t'ingraieful man. Sbaktfp.
rife ;

He that

To Enshi'eld.

enrols ; he that regifters.
Enro'lment. n./, [from enrol.] Regifter;

'V.a,

[hom fhield.]

To

(hield ; to cover ; to proteft.
Thofe black mafks
Proclaim Sinenfhield beauty, ten times louder

writing in which any thing is recorded;
record.

Than beauty could difplay.

The king hlmfclf caufed to be enrolled, and tcftibj 4 BOtary fuUick ;

Shakefpeare,

in fccming knowledge.

Shakr/f>.
His oath enrolled in the parliament.
Laws, which none ihall find
Left them enrell'd; or what the fpirit within
Shall on the heart engrave. Milton' sParadife lj>ft.
3. To involve ; to inwran.
From his inftnial furnace forth he threw

fied

my

We make trifles of terrours, enfconcing ourfelves

Pope's Odyffey.

[from faro/. J

myfelf fometimcs, hiding mine honour in

She (hall not fee me, 1 will enfconce me behind
Hhakcfpearr's Merry Ifites of If'inafor.

He fwore confent to your fucccflion

ENiio'LLER.. ft./,

To

Hanmer.

the arras.

Mentes, an evcr-honour'd name of old.

2.

[hom fconce.]

nour.

Throng'd to the lifts, and envy'd to behold

ArLutfmiit and Ptpt.
"v.

a'. (7.

and yet your rogue will tnfcoxce your rags, your
cat-a-mountain looks under the flielter of your ho-

The names of others,'not their own cr.rM'd. Dryd.

Among their brethren of the (kies
To which, though late, (hall Stella rife.

m fchedule, ]

neceility, and. fain to (huffle, to hedge, and to lurch ;

Sprall.

The champions, all of high degr«,

egleil the polite arts pf painting and poetry.

[ fro

cover as with a fort; to fecure.

Mic. x. 36.

We find ourfelves enrolled in this heavenly family

High in Ulyffes' focial lift enrdl'd.
Heroes and heroines of old.
By honour only were enroll'

a.

Stakefpcare's HeniyV

Eif.hedul'd here.

ToEnsco'nce.

There be enrolled nmon^H the king's forces about

Sbatrfpeare.

'V.

You mull buy that peace
With full accord to all our jull demands,

French.]
or regifter.

[enroller,

as fervants, and as Ions.

.

To infert in a fchedule or writing.

That, quaint in green, (he (hall be loofe enrok'd,
With ribbands pendant, Baring 'bout her head. Sbai,

i

[fanguit, Latin;

Miltcn't Paradi/elj>fi.

Defcrted.

to clothe ; to Iwbit ; to invert.
Her mother hath intended,

thirty thoufand men of the Jews.

c.

French.]
To fmear with
go:e ; to fuffufe with blood.
With cruel tournameut the fquadrons join.
Where cattle paltur'J late ; now fcatter'd lies.
With carcalles and arms, lAi' enfanguin'di^iM.

The Summer, how it enripen'd the year;
And Autumn, whatourgolden harveftswere. Donne.
To Enro'be. -v. a. [from role.] To drefs

To infert in a roll, lift,

1?.

enfanglantcr,

to mature ; to bring to perfeftion.

the parti-

the ancient poets hiftotical

all

firit,

Spenfcr,

To Enri'pen. n). a. [from ripe.]

1.

have followed

I

Homer, who, in the perfon of Agamemnon,
enfampUd a good governor and virtuous man.

To bind

[from ring.]

Shakefpeare.

In the following quotation it feems
erroncoufly written for etmurapt, involv'd, wrapt up.
Nor hath he been lb inrapt in thofe ftudies as to

-v.

a,

Sanderfon*

for their excufe.

ToEnsa'mple. T. c. [from the noun.] To

Who knighthoofi loy'd, and deeds of chii'alry,

Am, like a prophet, fuddenly tnmpt
To tell thee, that tliis day is ominous.

To Enra'vish.

fample to do the fame thing, where there is not tlic
fame neceility, may not be able to vouch our practice

Iry fo

myfelf

To EmXa'pture.

.!

You have us lb; a.i enjarrple.
Pbil. lii. 17.
Such as would be williug to make ufe of our fn^

If'atti.

Enrlngs the barky hngers of the elm.

with enthufiafm.

2.

Such life (houid be the honour of your light
Such deatli, the U cnfjmpU of your night. Spenfer,

round ; to encircle.

To

1

;

Horns walk'd and wav'd like the enridgedki :
Shakefpeare' s King Lear.
It was fome fiend.

ciple preterite feems to be etirapt.]
throw into an e.Ktafy; to tranfport

1.

ample ; pattern
fubjeft of imitation.
This orthography is now juft'y difufed.

with longitudinal protuberances or ridges.
He had a tboufand nofes,

-v.

the qualities or

from in a little room.

ToEnri'dge. "V.a. [from r/V^*".] To form

To Enri'ng

all

virtues of the ingredients they are drawn

ENSA'MPLE.b./. [#«/<», Italian.] Ex-

and pains among infinites and unfearchables.

ToEnro'll. 'V.a,

No leifure had he xoenraKk Ills men. Shakefpeare.

pretended to contain

2. Amplification ; improvement by addition.
I have procured a tranflation of that book into
the general language, not without great and ample
additions, and enrichment thereof. Bacon' sHoly vyar.
It is a vaft hindrance to the enri hment of our
underftandings, if wc fpend too much of our time

To place

in orderly ranks.

2.

Augmentation of wealth.

1.

Sbakeffi.

Any being or exiftence.
[In chymiftry.]
Some things that are

1 .

to fupply with augmentation

Enri'chment. »./. (from M«fA.]

Fairy Siiietrt.

To Enra'nk. v. a. [from rank,']

;

to

Upon his royal face there is no note

How drc.id an army hath eKtounded him.
ENS. ft./. [Latin.]

There is rot any one among them that could ever

To

In their jaw

make fruitful.

fnricb his own undcrltanding with any certain truth,
Raleigh's llifiory.
or ever edify others therein.

provoke ; to make furious

to

to exafperate.

to

of any thing defirable.

The earth hath Cnce born ainv bleedinj; *it-'
Sijny.
oeffes, that it » as no want ot true courage.
The walls of the church there are er.^'M contented to build; the marbles are polithcd, the rools
altar

;

to encircle;

to furround;

inclofe.

Dcr.ham.

See the fweet brooks in filver mazes creep,
Emitb the meadows, and fupply the dstf.Blackmm.
3.

fliine with gold, the

To

environ;

Thofe are fo unhappy as to rob others, without
eiricbing themfelves.

:

His foes arc fo enrooted with his friend),
That, plucking to unfix an enemy.
He doth uufailen fo and (liakc a friend. Shakefftare.
To Enro'und. 'V.a. [from round.']

Milton's faradife Regain'd,

Of nations.

In a furn

he plural of f«oA^^.

He cannDt I'o precifely weed this land,
As his mifdoubts prefcnt occafion

2j.

Henry is able to tnricb his queen.

Affliction

cient number.

i Sim. xvii.

To fix by

the root; to implant deep.

to make opulent.

him his daughter.

Daviet 01 Ireland.

To Enro'ot. t). a. [from mot.]

The king will tnricb him with great riches and
Aviil give

ShakcJ.

Eno'w.

;

own hands, to the Biihop of Salif-

bury.

liarxty.

taken cold or embeunud.

To Enri'ch. v.a. \enrkher, French.]

!

Henceforth, I'll bear
'till it do cry out of itfelf.
Enough, cntugb, and die. Siiakejftare': KirgLear.

meittt, with hi:

The phyGcian is to enquire where the party hath

.

well,

ENS

E N R

E N R
pleafant tnough to confider the
It
dif!«Fenl notions which diiferent perfons haw of the
AJilifon.
fame thing.
is fometimes

Ti)

and delivered the «;o/>

Sbakifpeare.

EKsam'NE. «,«, [from ,^w/'.j To
enclole

ENS

E N T

enclofe in a cheft or cabinet j to prcferve
and fecure as a thing facred.

He fecms

To Ensu'e. v. a.

Bright temple, to Egyptian Thebes hefiies. MUtm.

Com Prayer,

[enjiformis , Latin.]
as

Hav-,
the xipho-

To Ensu'e.

E'NSIGN. n.f. [en/tigne, French.]
1. The flag or ftandard of a regiment.
Shakefptare.
li

repulfed the defendants,

Any fignal to aflemble.

[Formerly written ancient.
'\

He that carries the flag

[et/fign

and if/zr.]

the enfign.
If it be true that the giants ever made war againft
heaven, IkC bad been a tit trfignbtartr for (hat comSidney.

rfrom_y7«a;f.]

To reduce to fervitude

;

Exemption from hazard, obtained by the
payment of a certain fum.
2. The fum paid for fecurity.

Ensu'rancer. n.f. [hom ertfurance.] He
who undertakes to exempt from hasutrd.

Long draughts of fleephis nwnftruus limbs tnJLve ;

He reels, and faliiog hlls the fpacious cave. Drydiit.
He isccftainly the moft fubjeflcd, the moll tnLocltr.

While the balance of power is equally heW, the
ambition of private men gives neititer danger nor
fear, nor can polTiblyi<»/&ii/f their country.
H-uifi.
2.

Ev'n Short and Hobbes, forfook th' unequal ftrife.
Dryden.
ro Ensu're. v. a. {itorci Jure, ajjurer,

French.]
Toafcertain; to make certain ; to fecure.

and you are freer than the Parthian king,
Tayhr'x Rplt cf living ijcly.
The more virtuoufly any man lives, and the lefs
he is enJIavrJ to any luft, the more ready he is to

faliions,

paying a certain fum, on condition of
being reimburfed for mifcarriage.
3. To promife reimburfement of any mifcarriage for a certain reward ftipulatcd.
for a quantity of corn, to enfure his (heep for that
year.
VEJlrange.

A man, not having the power of his own life,
cannot by ccmpaft, or his own ccnfent, f/»^iai <• himfelf to any o«e, nor put himfelf under the .ibfolutc
'r^ry power of another, to ukc away lile when
..:
Lulil.

ftate of fervitude;

hazard.

Enta'blature. \n./. [from /a/; /r.] The
Enta'blament. 5 architrave, frifc, and
cornice of a pillar; being in efFeft the extremity of the flooring, which is either

1

he

The duke, being queftioneJ, neither held lilence
as he might, nor conftantly denied it, but entangUt-

2. 'I"he rule of defcent fettled for anycflate.

The children of Ifrael,
thod of fmning,

according to tl.eir meafter mercies, and thereupon rc-

turjiii (; lo a fr;(h

<riflaxtmtnl \t their enemies, had

Hiuib.

himfelf in his doubtful tale.
Hayiuard.
I fuppofe a great part of the difficulties that perplex
men's thoughts, and entangle their undeiltandiiigs,
would be eafily refolved.
hicke.

6. To enfnare by captious queftions or anful
talk.

The Pharifees took counfel how they might en/a«g/fhimin his talk.

.3.

Engravers work ; inlay.

Obfolcte.

Well it appeared lo have been of old

A work ol rich entail, and curious mold.
Woven Willi antickj and wild im^cry, fairy Sljteen,

Mait.r.-i\\. ij.

To dillraft with a variety of cares.

7.

No man that waireth entangletb himfelf with the
zT/w. ii. 4.

afr.:irs of this life
?:.

To multiply the intricacies or difliculties
of a work.

Enta'nci.ement. tt.f. [from f«/<7»f/c.]
1.

Involution of any thing intricate or adhefive.

2.

Perplexity; puzzle.
Tlic molt impioved

fpirits

arc frequently c.tught

in the entanglements oi ^ tenacious imagination.

Glanville\t Scepjis.
There will be no ^tiUx entanglements, toucning
the notion of Cod ai,d liis providence.
Mote.
It is 10 fence againlt the «w/(7^»/(mf»/jof equivocal

The cftate entailed or fettled, witli regard to the rule of its defcent.

flavery; abjettAibjec-

tion.

cow pailcd fcven jcari ia cruel fubjsHian,

To

Supported by pillars, or by a wall, if
there be no columns.
Harris.
Enta'il. «./. \feudum talliatum, from the
French entaille, cut, from lailler, to cut.]
r.

toembarrafs;

Now all iubour,

One who

makes contracts of cnfurancc ; one who
for a certain fum exempts any thing from

;

Marrs what it does, yea very force entangles
Itfelf with ftrength.
Shaiefptare's Ant. and Cleop,
He knew not how to wrctile wiih" defperate contingencies, and fo abhorred to be entangled in fuch.
CLr.ndon.
puzzle; to bewilder.
5.

A mendicant contracted with a country fellow

Tilhijon.

|;,c:ifc!.

To involve in difliculties
to perplex.

To exempt any thing from hazard by

2.

unlefs he hath firll tnflavid himfelf to life and death,
to pleafure or pain, to hope or fear: command thofc

ht

to make an eniangled knot.
4.

Stvifi.

To make over to another as his flave or Ensu'rer. «./. [(torn e>/f!ire.'\

Ensi.a'veme.nt. n.f. \{\omenJla've.'\

To

twin, or confufe in fuch a manner as
that a feparation cannot eafily be made ;-

3.

on fuccceding ages, but

enough.

bondman.
No man can make another man to be his (lave,

entertain the principles of religion.

To lofe in multiplied involutions; as in
a labyrinth.

The vain enfurancers of life.
And they who moft petform'd, and promis'd lefs,

It is eafy to entail debts

'

who ii fa in his underftanding.

adhefive, as briars.

how to rnfuri peace for any term of years is difficult

!

JIavtJ,

etymology.]
To inwrapor infnare with fomethingnot
eafily extncable, as a net ; or fomething

1.

1.

Millon

_

To Ekta'sgle. -v. a. [A word of uncertain

2.

Ensu'ranc?^ n.f. [from en/ure.']

The coD^r'd alio, and txJlav'A by war,

To tame;

to fubdue.
'Tis not your inky biows, your black filk hair.
Your bugle eyeballs, and your cheek of civam.
That can entame my fpirits to your worlhip. Shakefp.

to fnbjugate ;

Purfue my life.
Roive's Ambitiom Stepmother.
Then grave ClarifTa graceful vvav'd her fan j
Silence enfu^J, and thus the nymph began.
Pope.

Shall, with their freedom toit, their virtue lofe.

Fairy ^ter.

falls.

'.

Impute not then thofe ills which miy enfite
To me, but thufe who with incelTant hate

1.

I to do this
I, whom you once thought brave.
To fell my country, and my king (»/''''•'"
Dryden.

Tiliotfm,

In the following

To Enta'me. 1-. a. [from tame.']

With mortal heat each other Oiall puilue

What wars, what wounds, what flauglitcr (hall rnfue

of

to deprive

liberty.

Obfolete.

The mortal fte;l, difpiteoufly ex/j;/',/,

Haytt'ard
Of worfe deeds worfe fufferings mud enfue. Mill.

;

pany.

To Ensla've. t'. a.

To cut.

Deep in their flelh, quite through the iron walls.
That a large purple (Iriram aJovvn their giambcaux

Dryden.

E'nsicnbearer. n.f.

1.

fec.et curfe upon their cftates.

3.

But with his lad attempt he wip'd it out,
Dellioy'd his country, and his name remains
To the enfuing age abhoa'd,
Sbaiiefpfare.
Bjhops are placed by collation of the king, without any precedent ele^ion 01 confirmation enfuing.

office.

The officer of foot who carries the flag.

infirmities and difeafesto their children, and entail a

Haokcr.

paflage it is neuter.

I/aijb, V.

Princes that fly, their fceplres left behind,
Contempt or pity, where they travel, find;
The ettjignt of our pow'r about we bear,
And ev'ry land pays tribute to the fair.
ff^till/r.
The marks or fifig"! of virtues contribute, by
their noblenefs, lo the ornament of the figures ; as
the decorations belonging to the liberal arts, to war,
or facritices.
Drydtn,

None ever had a privilege of infallibility entailed to
Dighy on Bodies..
The intemperate and unjuft tranfmit their bodily

all he faid.

of time.
The man was noble.

Badge ; or mark of diftinftion, rank, or

4.

it

To fucceed in a train of events, or courfc

2.

He will lift up an ttijign to the nations from far.
3.

thing.

ihall hereupon plainly

fort drowned, that now we need it not.

Knollti's Hi'ft.ry.

Men taking occafion from the (jualitics, wherein
they obferve often feveral individuals to agree, range
them into forO, in order to th«ir naming under
which individuals, according to their conformity to
this or that abllraft idea, come to be ranked as
under infigni.
Locke.

Dryden,

To fix unalienably upon any perfon ot

2.

enfuCf that the light of fcripture once lliiuing in the
wotld, all other light of nature is theiewith in fuch

Hang up your enjigns, let your drums be ftill.

The Turks ftill preffing on, got up to the top of
the ••alls with eight f^j«, from whence they ad

:

The title llood email' d, had Rich.ud had a Ion.

11. tt,

Let this be granted, and

Sh.ik.

Had Richard uncontlrain'd refign'd the throne,
A king can give no more than is his own

To follow as a confequence to premifes.

1.

heie entail

The crown to thee and to thine heirs for ever.

But nowthefc Epicures begin to fmile,
And fay, my doftrine is more fafe than true ;
And that 1 fondly do mylelf beguile,
Ditvics.
While thefe recciv'd opinions I enfue.

Receive! 'em, in her ancient fane eifirin'J. Add]/.

ine the (hape of a fword,

1

Flee evil, and do good ; feek peace, and enfut it.

Tate*syuv,
Yin fortune next, with looki ferene and kind,

eides or enjiform cartilage.

it

follow ; to purfue.

The fots combine
V.'ith pious care a monkey to erjhrine.

fo

cannot lie by any fubfequent poffeflbr bequeathed at pleafure.
that

To

Erench,]

tnlaiUer,

To fettle the defcent of any eftate,

1

S'wift.

!

[en/ui'vre,

NT

To Entail, 'u.a, [tailler, to cut;
French.]

What indignation in her mind,
AgainiV enjlirvert of mankind

When to enjhrim his rellques in the fun's

2.

He that

reduces others to a ftate of fervitude.

A phccnix, gazM by all, a« (hat folc bird,

E'nsiform. adj.

E

Ensla'ver. »./. [from ot/Iavf.']

words, and the arts of fophiltry, that dilliiii^lioiis
'
have been multiplied.
I.0 ke.

Enta'ncler. n.f.

\UoTS\ entangle.]

One

that entangles.

To E'NTER.
I.

1..

a.

\i-i!ircr,

French.]

To go or come into any place.
I

with (h: mulutudc »f my led^cst'il,
3

Sb»B

Atlerburf.

one county, the king
brought in doubt whether livery ought
to be made ; and therefore, before li\cry
be made to eitlier, they muft enterplead
that is, try between themfelves who is the

feveral officers in

To initiate in a bufinefs. method, or foThe elJeft being thus enter' J, and then made the
fafliioni it would be impolIii>le to hinder them.
Locke.

;

To introduce or admit into any counfel.
They of Rome arc enlei'd in our counfels.
Sbakeff, Coriolanut.
And know how we proceed.

—\l\i enler'd.

to go in.
and to enter to poflels the

;

Be not flothful

to go

laud.

J''<^5-

;

The French king hath often entered on feveral

His head was

no houfe, no en-

;

Entero'cele. «./. [ciiterocele, Latin.]

my own feeding.

is fallen, it becomes an enthe omentum or epiploon, epiplocele;
Siurp't Hurgerj.
and if both, enteroepiplocele.

Estero'logy. a. y. [t»T!{ei and Aoyo?,]
The anatomical account of the bowels
and internal parrs.
^i»A»<.]

French.]
ence.

[«»TiMK and «/*-

An umbilical or navel rupture.

Enterpa'ri-Ance. »./.

[entre and parUr,

Parley ; mutual talk ; confer-

How many men would you require to the furnifhing of this which you t.ike in hand ? And how
long fpace would you have them enieriainrd.
Spenfir's Ireland.

You,

fir,

I

entertain for one of

my hundred

I'll weep and figh.
And, leaving fo his fervice, follow j-ou.

So pleafe you entertain me.
5.

To referve in the mind.

This purpofe Cod can entertain towards us.
Diejy vfPieiy.
6. Topleafe; toamufe; to divert.
David entertained liimfilf with the meditations of
Cod's law, not his hidJcn decrees or counfels.
Dec.ty of Piety.
They were capable of entertaining themlclvcs on
a thnuland fubjects, without running into the com-

Addifa
mon topicks.
The hilloryofthe Royal Society (hews how well

Ha\iuard.
\entre ZnA plead,

ENTERPLt'ADER. «./.
The difcufling of a jwint

•

incidentally

falling out, before the principal caufe can

it

is

leaft is

fitteft

to alk

more realbn for the entertainment

be aik me queltions than that I
Bacon's Ne^u Atlantis.
Paifions ought to be our fervants, and not our
matters ; to give us fome agitation for entertainment,
temple.
but never to throw leal'on out of its Icat.
of tli£ lime,
alk you.

tliat

Dramatick performance ; the lower comedy.

8.

A great number of dramatick entertainments are
Gay.

not comedies, but five-ail farces.

and ti£ue.\
Enterwovcn or intermixed with various

EnteRTi'ssu ID.

eielj,

[entre

The (word, tlie inace, the crown imperial.
Sbak^,
The eniertijfued robe of gold and pearl.
To Enthro'ne. t. a. [from throne.^
1. To place on a regal feat.
Mercy is above this Iceptcr'd fway ;
It is enthroned in the hearts of
It is

the progrcfe of

knowledge is as enurtaining as that ol arms.
Feit»n on theClafJicks.
la gardens^ art can only reduce the beauties of

kings }

an attribute to God himfelf.

On

Shakefp,

a tribunal filver'd,

Cleopatra and himfclf, in chairs of gold.
Were publickly entbr(.n'd.
Shakef^eare,
Beneath a (culptur'd arch he fits enthron'd.
The peers, euciicling, lorn, an awtul round.
Pope,

,

philofophy becometli a n.irration :

diverfion.

colours or fubftances.

Shakefp. Cymheline.

Scots difcharged

01 the field.

;

Becaufe he that knoweth
queftions,

;

only I do not like the falhion of your garments.
Siatif, King Lear.

Amufement

J.

He.iv'n fet open thy everhifting gates.
To emerlain my vows of tl>.mks and praife. Shakef.

againll the Englilh, not without breach of the laws

During the enlerparlance the

The enfertainmtnt of the general, upon his firft
anlval, was but tixlhillingsandeighi-pence. Davies,
The captains did covenant with the king to fervc
him with certain numbers of men, for ceruin wages
Davies,
and enlcrlaintmnt,

Be not forgetful to cnleri.iin ftrangers ; for thereby
fome have entertainel angels unawares. Ue!>. xiii. 2.

if

Entero'mphalos. »./.

Addifon,

Now

fervants.

obfolete.

To receive hofpitably.

3.

The remedy in

by ttuifes and bol^in,y.

Payment of foldiers or

6.

to talk with.

A 4. To keep in one's fervice.

If the intedine only

leru:ele\

;

fo well ftored

You (hsU find an apartment fitted up for you, and

rupture from the bowels preffing through
or dilating the peritoneum, fo as to fall

fters.

A

mod royal one. The ceuturionf and their
charges diilindlly billeted, already in the entertainment, and to be on foot at an hour's warning.
Shakefpeare's Coriolaniii,

fhall be every day entertained with beef or mutton of

:

chiefly

fervants.
Have you an army ready, fay you ?

To treat at the table.

2.

branches fo lovingly fn/ci/.ic-i-i/ one another, that it
could refift the Ifrongcll violence of the fight. Sidney.

is

A

a mag.-\zine, that
nothing could be propofed which he was not readily
L^cke,
furuilhed to entertain any one in.

Entrance;

to interweave.
This lady walked outright, 'till Ihc might fee her
enter into a fine clofe arbor
it was of trees, whofe

fuch cafes,

Hofpitable reception.
Reception ; admiflion.
It is not ealy to imagine how it fliould at firft gain
entertainment, but much more difBcult to conceive
how it (hould be univerfally propagated.
^lllotfon,
5. The ftate of being in pay as foldiers or
•:.

4.

t\penfer.

To converfc with

To Enterla'ce. -v. 17. lentrelerjfer, YtcnchJ]

down into the groin.

Drydtn.

Obfolete.

important and dangerous deligns.
They commonly prove great enielprifers wiih
Iluyward on JidivardW.
happy fucccfs.

Iftiiah.

To intermix

to entertain.

;

n;an of enterpriie; one who undertakes
great things ; one who engages himfclf in

1.

paflage into a place.
tering in.

To receive

J

Hubberd'j Tale.

It is laid walte, fo that there is

Drjdcn.

To ENTERTA'IN. t-. a. \e„trctenir, Fren.]

the enterdeal q{ ^x'wxzt^^ ttrange.

To mark ch' intent of counlels, and the change

E'nterinc. //./. [itom enter.'l

(ion.
AiTivedthei^, the little houfe they fill
Nor look for entertainment where nunc was
Rett is their feall, and ail things at their will
The nobleO: mind the bell contencment has.
Fairy ^een.
With Britilh bounty in his (hip h« featts
amazed
guefts
Th' Hefperian princes, his
To find that wat'ry wiiderncfs exceed
The entertainment of their great Madrid.
ffaller.

may be as well written now, as it was of

E'nterpriser. »./. [from enterprifi.\

Obfolete.

Of Hates.

Treatment at the table; convivial provi-

Him at the threlhold met, and well did enierprife

ror he is prailis'd well in policy.
And thereto doth his courting moll apply ;
'i'o learn

Converfation.

In goodly garments, that her well became,
Fair marching forth in honourable wife,

Re-

\entre iX\A deal.^

ciprocal tranfaftions.

1.

We mull furprife the court in its delight.
2.

To be initiated in.
O pity and Aiame, that thofe who to live well
!

He that pleafes, diverts, or amufes.

Enterta'inment. n,f, \itom entertam,'\

Hjfte then, and lofe no time :
The bufinefs muft be enlerpris'd this night

expenfive projects, on purpofe to diilipate wealth.
Addifon en the fVar.

Snutlridge,

of a wife or good man u> futicr
temperance to be tranfgrelled, in order to purchafc
Atlerhury,
the repute of a generous entertainer.,
It is littk the lign

2.

old by the heathens.

Milton.
F.nter'd (o fair, fliould turn afide
As foon as they once entered \nu> a tafte of pleafure, politenefs, and magntticence, they fell into a
thoufand violences, confpiracies, and ilivilions. AddiJ.

He (hews both to the guefts and to the entertainer

Milan.

happily,

/(atts.

To engage in.

He that treats others at his table.
their great mirtake.

•

Temple.
were rctblvcd and enierpris'd.
An epick poem, or the heroick aflion of fume
great commander, enterprijed for the common good
and honour of the Chrilhan caufc, and executed

He is particularly pleafed with Livy for his manner of telling a Itory, and with SalUift for his enAddifin.
tering into eternal principles of attion,
They were not capable of entering into the^ nu-

Gentlemen did not care to enter into bufinefs 'till
Tutler.
after their morning draught.

2.

Princes were only chiefs of thofe aflcmblies, by
whofe confultations and authority the great anions

Be wanting, but afford thee equal aid.

to make intellec-

merous concurring fprings of a£lioa.

He was, in his nature and conllitutioii of minds
not veryappiehcnfive or forccafting of future event,
afar oft, but an entertainer of fortune by the day.
Hiiean's HtnryVM,

3.

To undertake; to attempt; to eflay.

1.

tual entrance.

Enterde'al. «./.

mine enterprifes to

He that keeps others in his fervice.

1.

\enterprife,

Nor (hall 1 to the work thou enurprlfrji

To penetrate mentally

Jj>eke,

Enterta'iner. k./. [hom entertitiv.]

To E's'TERPRtsE. 1: n. [from the noufi.]

Beaft, bird, infefl, or worm, durft enter none. Milt.

4.

ERPRISE. «./.

Judith, ii. 5.
Shakefp.
Whet on Warwick to this enierprife.
The day approach'd, when fortune (hould decide
Th' important enierprife, and give the bride. Drjd.

Other creature here,

3.

I

Kow is the time to execute
the deftruftion of the enemies.

Shakcjp. He)irj\'V.

S'o li'NTER. T. «.

2.

Reafon can never permit the mind to entertain
probability iu oppofition to knowledge and certainty.

French.]
An undertaking of hazard; aii arduous
attempt.

Agues and fevers are enler'd promifcuoufly, yet in
Graunt.
the few bills they h.»ve been dillinguilhed.

To come in

Cov^el.

right heir.

BN

4, .To fet down in writing.
Mr. Phang, have you enter' d the aftion f

i.

To admit with fatisfaftion.

7.

is

ciety.

3.

niturt to a figure which the common eye may better
take int and istlierefore more entertained with.
Pope's Pref. to the Iliad>.

take end. For example two feveral perfoDS, being found heirs to land by two
:

A

againft him.

t.

E N T

E N T

E N T
Mllox.
Shall enter heiv'n, long abfcnt.
king of repute and learning entered the lifts

2,

To inveft with fovereign authority.
This pope w«s no fooncr elected and enthroned,
but chat he began to cxcrcife his new rapines.
Ayli^'e's Parergon,

Enikusia'sm.

E N T

E N T

EnTHUSIa'sm. n.f. [fi&Kirws-tAe?.]
1.

A

vain belief of private revelation; a
Tain confidence of d' ine favour or cora-

One who vainly imagines a private revelation one who has a \'ain confidence of

One of a hot imagination,

2.

3.

E'ntiertt. n.f. [entlerte, French.]

Sometime the attorney thrufteth into the writ
the uttcrmoft quantity; or, elfe fetteth down an f«tierty, where but a moiety was to be pafTed.

1.

ftill

in general.

Bacon's Collellion of Good and Evil.

Full
in

And added length to folemn founds.

^1

r" 1
^

'J
'
-^
J
Perfuaded of fome communication with

the deity.

He pretended not to any (eraphick tntbujiajlical

An
its

Vehemently hot in any caufe.

5.

To rapture and enibujiujiick heat,

6.

An

7.

and confequcntial propofition
a fyllogifm where the major propofition is fupprelTed, and only the minor and confequence produced in words.
;

Playmg much upon the fnnple or lullrativc argu
mentation, to inilucc their enlbymemes unto the
people, they take up popubr conceits,
B'otvn.
What is an enthymeme^ quoth Cornelius ? W'hy,
an enihjirtti.v rej-licd Crambc, is wlien the major
is indeed married to the minor, but the marriage
ArhuibnfA and Pope.
kept feciet.

to draw
T"" allute ; to attraft
by blandifhments ot hopes of fomething

Clarendon.

he aft or praftice of alluring to ill.

And bcfC W every thirfty -.ViBiIertr

power than theirs, both by fea and hnd.

Bacon,

To Ento'mb. -v, a [ixQTa tomb,}
into a tomb ; to bury.

To put

fully.

HrorelTions were

culated often with the blood,

it is entirely (a.

Ail.uthnot.

General confent entirety altered the whole frame
of their government.
S-wift,

3.

With firm adherence

;

Great woe and forrow did her foul .ifTay,
\^ weening at the lad end of the war.
And 'gan to highcft God (*/////y/v pray. Fairy ^ten.

Enti'r£nss8. fi.f, [fromc';;///v,]

begun

for

the interring of.

Deuham,

E'ntrails. w./. without a fingular.

faithfully.

Which when his pcnfive lady faw from far.

fiift

holy martyrs, and the vifitiiigof ihofe places where
Hooker,
they were entombed.
The cry went once for thee, and yet it may again.
If thou wouliift not entomb thyfelf alive.
Sbakefpearet
And cafe thy reputation in a tent.
They within the beail's vaft womb.
The choice and Bower of all their troops entomb;

!

endaw her to be his wile. Ex. xxii. 16.
Softngthe fyrens, with enchanting found,

Toenfnare;.

to bring into toils or nels.

He cut off their land-fortes from their ftiips, and

Here finilh'J he, and all that he had made
Vicw'd, and beheld all w.is entirely good. Milton,
Chyle may be fjid to be a vr-^ctable juice in the
ftomach and inteftines; as it pjffcth into the laileals it grows ftill more animal, and when it has cir-

mnetil're a maid that is not betrothed, he

Suppofc VIC that the facrej word of Cod can .it
their hands receive due honour, by whofe emlcemtnt
the holy ordinances of the church endure every
where open contempt.
titoker.

to entangle ;

entailed both their navy and their camp with a greater

Kale'igb.

i)iaM fuRly

Hammond's Fundamentals,

demeanours.

In the whole; without divilion.
Euphrates, running, (inkcth partly into the lakes
of Chaldea, and lalls not entirely into the Pcrlian fea.

Afcbam'i Scboolmajier.

Bacon.

To Fnto'il.i;. ti. [from /o;7.]

Enti'rely. da'z'. [from ^w//Vc.]

Completely ;

caft into-

God's decrees of falvafion and damnation, both
Romilli and Reformed, affix to men's particular en-tiiy, abfolutely confidereJ, without any refpedt to

Spcnfr.

The rcadi«(t way to entangle the mind with falfe
decline, i< firil \o entice the will to wanton living.

'I

and fpitting; as in bay fait and buy leaves,
the fire.

8. In full ftrength,

2.

A particular fpecies of being.

All eruptions of air, though fmall and flight, give
an entity oi found,, which we call crackling, pufBng,

They had many pcrfons, of whofe entire affeftions

finful or deftruftive.

Enti'cemekt. «s/. [from «//«.]

z.

Honeft; fir.mly adherent ; faithful.
No man had ever a heart more entiie to the kinj,

with vigour unabated;
with power unbroken.
Then back, to fight again, new breathed and m/iVr,

Crajb.itv,

Fortune is no real entity, nor phyfical elienue,.
but a mere relative (ignitication.
Bentley,
Here entity &ni quiddity.
The fouls ot defunct bodies fly.
Hiidiiras,.

Unraingled; unallayed.

;

Granville,

Dear hope, earth's dowry and heaven's debt.

The entity of things that are not yet
Subt'lcft, but furcft being.

the church, or his country; but he never ftudied the
ways to thofe ends.
Clarendon.

To ENTI'CE. fu. a. [of uncertain etymo-

Locke,

E'ntity. fi.f. [?»/;>«/, low Latin.]
I. Something which really is ; a real being.

Firm; fure; folid; fixed.

they were well alfured.

of the
Rogers.

This is to entitle God's care how and to what we

eafieft

1.

to the mercies

pleafe.

King Lear.

Si>akefi>.

and entitled

To grant a thing as claimed by a title.

5.

Wrath Hiall be no more
Thenceforth, but in thy prefcnce joy entire. Milton.

ar-

gument confining only of an antecedent

to his Creator,
gofpel.

Entire and fure the monarch's rule muft prove.
Who founds her greatnefs on herfubjcfts love. Piior,

Thomjan,

.(

is

He run a courfe more entire with the king of
Arragon, but more laboured and oflicious with the
king of Caltile.
Bacon.

An tntbvjiajlkk or prophetick ftyle, by reafon of
the eagemcfs of the fancv, doth not always follow
Burnet.
the even thread of difcourfe
/
At lalt, fublim'd

We feci the prefeni Ueity.
E'ntiiymeme. n. /. irS-B^jjita ]

Hardly even is the penitent (inner faved; thus diffi-

complete in all
when it cona beginiimg, a middle, and an end. SfeClator.
it

Atterbury.

prayer.

cult is that duty, by which alone he can be reconciled

as Ariltotle defcribcs it,

Aloof from th' entire point.

3. Elevated in fancy ; exalted in ideas.

Erticing alt to liftcn, and be d^o^htl'd.

entitle

Love's not love.
When it is mingled with regards that ftand

Calamy,

devotion.

aAion is entire when

parts ; or,

4. Sincere; hearty.

npturei^ or inimitable unaccoimtablc tranfports of

If a

Cod difcovCTs the martyr and confcfTor without
the trial of flames and tortures, and will hereafter
many to the rewards of adioi.s which they
had never the opportunity of performing. Addifon.
He entitled himfelf to the continuance of tlicdivine ptoteCtion and goodiiefs, by humiliation and.

Nezuton.

complete ; comprifing all requiiites

itfelf.

lifts in

SiX'ift.

To give a claim to any thing.

But we, del'cended from your facred line
Entitled to your heav'n, and rites divine.
Are baniih'd e.vrth.
Dryden' s VirgiT,

publick piayer is a duty entire in itfelf, a duty
rcquifite to be performed much ol'tener than fermons
can be made.
Hooker.

DryJen.

whole volumes of mean produc*

tionc.

The church of Rome hath rightly confidered that

With nature's mother-wit, and arts unknown before.

'"SXO

:

atheifmon thofe who
Locke,

prefixed at length to

4.

pofed of rwr/re particles in the beginning.

3.

to charge

We have been entitled, and have had our names

complete in its parts.

Addijon tm Italy.
Water and earth, compofed of old worn particles
and fragments of particles, would not be of the fame
nature and texture now with water and earth com-

One of elevated fancy, or exalted ideas.

and

will not fubmit.

An antique model of the famous Laocoon is entire

Hnlarg'd the former narrow bounds,

I .

to their defigns,

not fate to divide, but to extol the entire,

2. Unbroken ;

At laft divine Cecilia came,

2.

is

Milton's Paradife Lejf,

How ready zeal for party is to entitle chriltianity

Whole; undivided.
It

!

To fuperfcribe, or prefix as a title.

3.

Chapman (cam to have been of an arrogant turn,
Pcft's Pre/, in the 11.
and an enthufiaft in poetry.

EnTHUSIA STICK.

Far other name delerving

tin.]

in thofe parts where the ftatue is maimed.

,.

Who highly thus ro entitle me vouchfaf 'll

Bacon.

ENTl'RE. aiij. [entier, French; integer.'Lz-

Inventrefs of the vocal frame

1.

'Ihe

whole; not barely a part.

paflions.

Enthusia'stical.I

lation ; as, to entitle a book.
Bcfidcs the Scripture, the books which they call
ecclefiaftical were thought not unworthy to be brought
into publick audience, and with that name they enm
titled the books which we term Apocryphal. Hooker,
Next favourable thou,

Ad.Jifin.

or violent

The fweet enihu/iaji, from her facrcJ (lore,
\

1.

ingly ; in a winning manner.
She ftrikes a lute well, and Cngs moft enlieiugly.

ESTHU'SIAST. »./. [«>3-l«r«»«.]

Honefty; integrity.

To grace or dignify with a title or honourable appellation.
2. To give a title or difcriminative appel--

allures to ill.

Enti'cingly. ad-v. [from entice.} Charm-

Imaging is, in ilfelf, the very height and life of
poetry, which, by a kind of entbujlam, or cxtr.iordinary emotion ot foul, makes it feem to us that we
behold thofe things which the poet paints. Dryd<n.

vain bring the evidence of clear rcafons againll his
Locke.
do^rine.

2.

One that ToEnti'tle. "j.a. [erttitu/er, ¥ rsnch.}

Enti'cer. n.f. [from entice.}

confidence of opinion.
3. Elevation of fancy ; exultation of ideas

completenefs ; fulnefs.

In anarch, each lingle llone, which, if CtvtttA
from the reft, would be perhaps defencelcl's, is fufficicntly fecurcd by the folidity and entireiitfs of the
whole fabrick, of which it is a part.
Boyle,

In all thefe inftances we muft feparate intreaty
and enticements from deceit or violence.
Taylor.

2. Heat of imagination; violence of paffion;

;

Milfift.

blandifliment; allurement.

ill;

Enthujiafm is founded neither on reafon nor divine
revelation, but rifes from the conceits ol a warmed
Lccke.
or overweening brain.

his intercourfe with God.
Let an er.thufiajl be principled that he or his
teacher is infpired, and afted by an immediate
communication of the Divine Spirit, and you in

1. Totality;

The means by which one is allured to

2.

munication.

1

E N T

By fly entieement gives his baneful cup.
With many murmurs mixt.

-

\en~-

trnillei, Fr. s>Tf«i».]
I.

'Ihe inteilincs; the inward parts;

the-

guts.

What, hath thy fiery heart fo parch 'd thine entrails,
Sbakejh, //,«)•» VI..
That not a tear can fall?

ThUT

E

T<I

T

bone it fometimei found in the heart of a (lag.
Bacon' t Nat. llifi.
1 tear that harden'd heart from out her brcaft,
Which with her entrails makes my hungry hounds a

He had brought to light but little ot that Irealure,
that lay fo long hid in 3ie dark entrails of America.

I ftood cntranc'd, and had no room for thought
But all o'erpowxr'd with ecftafy of Wifi,
Dryden.
Was in a plcafing dream of paradife.

To Entra'p. f. a. [from tmf.'l

To enfnare

Tlie earth hath loft

Henceforth too ralhly on that guileful net;
In which, if ever eyti entraffed are.
Out of her bands ye by no means (hall get. Spenfer.
Th; fraud of England, not the force of France,
Hath now entraft the noble-minded Talbot. Sbak.

Wounded no Icfs for marble than for io\d. Beit-jfcnfon.
[itttrakiare, Italian.]

To mingle; to interweave; todivcrfify.

A little wicker baiket.
Made of fine twigs, enlrailed curioufly,
In which they gather'd flowers. Spenfn's Protba!,

E'ntrance. ft./, [entrattt, French.]
The power of entering into a place.
1

To involve unexpcftedly in difEcuIties or

2.

ing, and impartially keeps it, truth
botii an entrance and a welcome too.

is

To petition

I have a wife, whom 1 proteH, I love;
would the were in heaven, lb (he could
Entreat fome pow'r to change this curriih Jew.

Gen xxv. 1 1
wi fe conceived
It were a fruitlefs attempt to appeafe a power,
whom no prayers could cntteat, no repentance re.

Whereas thy fervant worketh truly,

but by the dignity of the mailer.
Many are the ways that lead
To his grim cave, all difmal yet to fenfe

H otton.

The aft of taking poffcffion of an office
or dignity.
From the tirft entrance of this king to his reign,
never was king either more loving, or better beljved.
Hayw. Ed'M. VI.

J,

The beginning of any thing.
St. Augulline in the rff/rdwc** of one of his fcrmons,

aukes a kind of apology. Hakewellon Providence.
The earl of Holland we have had occafion to mention before in the tiill entrance upon this difcourfe.

Shakrfp.

Not in ufe.

To Entra'nce. v.

French, from /raw/Iii, Latin, to pafs over;
to pafs for a time from one region to
another.]
I. To put into a trance; to withdraw the
foul wholly to other regions, while the
boily appears to lie in a ilead flecp.
Z. To put into an extafy ; to make infenfib!e of prefent objefts.
Willi delight I wa> entranced,

mi carried fo far

The day being come, he made his entry

To Enu'bilate.
tin.]

firft

To treat

Not ufcti.

that entreated peace with

to difcourfe.

Not ufed;

The moft admirable myftery of nature is the
turningof iron, touched with the lo;idftonc, toward
the North-pole, of which I (lull have farther occafi.in
Uakeviill.
to entreat.
3. To make a petition.

3.

To line; to cover on the infide.
His iron coat, all overgrown wiih tuft.

Daik'ned with filthy duft.

an outward cafe ; an integument; a cover.
Send ihcfc to paper-fpating fop e

Sbakefpeare.

And, when lie fit* to write,

'I'hc Janizaries entreated Sot them, as valiant men.

No letter with An envelope
Could give him more delight.

Knolles,

Entre'atance. »./. [from «//fM/.]

Pe-

Notufed.

Tijcfc twn entreatance made ihcy might be heard,

Nor was their juft petition long deny'd.

ENTRtATV.

n. J.

[from

Fahjax.

entreat.'\

Peti-

tion; prayer; follicitation; fupplication
requell.

Fairy ^ueen,

ENFELO'PE. n.f. [French.] A wrapper;

They charged me, on pain of perpetual Jifpleafurr,

tition; entreaty; follicitation.

Latin.]

\ertiicleo,

Was underneath enveloped with gold,

neither to fpeak of him, entreat for him, or any way
fuftain liim.

a,

La-

Dili.

Sbakefp. Meaf.for Mcaf.
velop you, good provoft.
cloud of fmokc envelops either holt.
And all at once the combatai.ts are loft
Darkling ihcy join adverfe, and fhock unfeen,
Courfers wiih courfere juftiiig, men with men. DryJ.
It is but to approach nearer, and that mift thaC
enveloped iliem will remove.
Nod^uraal (hades
Tfiis world envelop, and th' inclement air
Philips.
Pcrfuades men to repel benu.nbing frolls.

Mac.
;

[e and nubile,

A

thv-m.

2.

a.

To iiiwrap; to cover; to inveft withforac
integument.
2. To cover; to hide; to furround.
The beft and wholelom'ft fpirits of the night en.

ToEntrk'at. f. n,
Alexander was the

1'.

To clear from clouds.

1.

In which (he often us'd, from open heat,
Hcrfcif to (hroud, and plcafures to eiureat. Fairy S>^

To offer a treaty orcorapaft.

he wis

To Enve'lop. <v. a. [errvelofer, French ]

With a thick arbour goodly overdight.

1.

:

a man of middle Itature and age, and comely. Bacm.

The garden of Proferuino this hight.
And in ihomidll thereof a filver feat.

Clarendon.

n. {from tratrcf ; Iranfe,

city.

To folve; to clear; to difentangle. Diet,

fhield 1 ihould diftutb devotion.

To entertain; to receive.

5.

Bacan,
A notary made an entry of this aft.
The ac^ of entering puWickly into any

To Enu'cleatb. f.

My lord, I muft entrtat the time alone.

Locke.

5. Intelkftual ingrcfs; knowledge.
He that travelleth a country before he hath fome
entrance into the language, g'leth to fchool, and not
Bacon's EJfays.
to travel.

in writing.

her often ; for (he always ferv'd :

Prior.
And cjfcinfenlibly produc'd delight.
Notufed.
4. To entertain; to amufe.

4. Initiation ; commencement.
This is that which, at firft <»/«»« baulks and
tools them : they wa:il their liberty.

The aft of taking poffcffion of any cllaie.
4. The aft of regiftering or fetting down
3.

VL

Ufe made her j-erfon eafy to my fight.

— God

Milton.
Let this, and every other anxious thought.
At th' entrance of my thrclhjld be forgot. Dryjtn.

Sbakrfpeare'i Henry

Well I. entreated her, who «cll deierv'd
I callM

Tatter,

ingrefs.

;

Bathing and anointing give a relaxation or «moland the mixture of oil and water is belter
than either of them alone, becaufe water entercth
better into the pores, and oil after entry foftenetli
Bacon's Natural Hijlor^.
better.
The lake of Conftance is formed by the enrry of
AddifM.
the Uhine.
By the entry of tJie chyle and air into the blood,
by the lafleals, the animal may again revive.

him

entreaf

Ecclef. vii. 20.
Muft you, fir John, proteft my lady here ?
Entreat her not the worlc in that 1 pray

!

More terrible at th' entrance than within.

The aft of entrance

1.

rot evil.

You ufe lier well.

He charged them to keep the paffages of the liiUy
country ; for by them there was an entrance into
JuMlh.
JuJea.
Palladio did conclude, that the principal entrance
was never to be regulated by any certain dimcnfvini,

We proceeded through the enrry, and were ne-

5.

To treat or ufe well or ill.

...»

Dryd.

The curious eyes of thy invited friend ?

Rogtrs.

concile.

3.

Hhakefp.

Is all this hurry made

Arhmknut on Alimen:s,

Sbakefpeare.

The Lord was entrealeJ oi him, and Rebecca his

The paflltge by which a place is entered;

6.

to folicit ; to importune.

1

And all tlie men and women merely plifyers;

avenue.

;

Gen. XXXV. 21.

guefe.

All the world's a llage.

A

lition ;

To prevail upon by folicitation.

2.

That we do make our enlraiKe feveral wayi. Sbak.

3.

n.

Ifaac entreated the Lord for his wife.

fure to find

They have their exits and their entrances.

EcclrJ. viii.

thy words.

Sbakefftare.
I

but
Bacon.
never a fair room.
ftiait long entry to the temple led.
Blind with high walls, and horror over head. Diyi,

ce(rarily kept in order by the fiiuation.

An injurious perfon lies in wait to entrap thee in

he aft of entering.
The reafon, that I gather, he is mad.
Is a mad tale he toIJ to-day at dinner,
Of his own door being (hut againll his entrance.
Better far,

a houfe that hath convenient llairs and entries,

On this account, becaufe thou art afraid
A dirty hull or entry fhould offend.

To take advantage of.

3.

"^1

2.

houfe.
fome there are that know the reforts and falls of
bufinefs, that cannot fink into the main of it; Kke

The man mollwary,inhsr whelming lap. Fairy S^u.
He fought to entrap me by iutdligence. Sbakijp.

1

South,

The paffage by which any one enters a

I .

Misfortune waits advantage \o entrap

To Entre'at. v. a. \traeter, French.]

his head, that he gives entrance to fuch companions
Sbakefpeare.
Pmv, get you out.
Where diligence opens the door of the underltand-

hive a large white main Ihoot, which is rile true
Moriimer.
chard ufed in pottages and entremets.
E'ntry. «./. [frovn enttr ; entree, French.]

diftrefles ; to entangle.

Has the porter his eyes in

Whence are you, fir ?

to catch in a trap or fnare.

;

Take heed mine eyes, how ye do ftare

Moft of her ribs, as entrails j being now.

Over him, art ftri»ing to compare
Wi h nature, did an arbor green difpred,
Framed of wanton ivy, Bow'ring fair.
Through which the fragr.int eglantine did fpread,
His pricking arms entrail'ii with rofes red. Fairy Q^.

fet between the main difhes.
Chards of beet are plants of white beet tranfplanted, producing great tops, which, in the midlf,

Milton.

1

Sbakefpeare' s Richard Ilf.

Of fsniVuary.

ENTliBME'TS. n.f. r French.] Small plates

And I fo ravilh'd with her heav'nly note,

Locke.

To Entra'il. v. a.

We (liouU infringe the holy privilege

Sunk down, and all his fpirits became rmramV.

Sbalrfp.

And fhews the ragged entrails of this pit.

Spfnfer.

Adam, iww enforc'd to clofe his eyes.

Drydtn.

feaft.

m that I am forry that fou ended To

fcoti.

The internal parts.
A precious ring that lightens all the hole,

s.

E N V

E N T
from myfelf,

The nlrnUt are all without bones; tkvt that a

To Enve'nom. -v. a. [iiom venom.

Svift.
'\

To tinge with poifon; topoifon; to impregnate with venom. It is never ufed
of the perfon to whom poifon is given,
but of tue draught, meat, or inftrument
by which it is conveyed.
The treacherous iiiftrument is in thy hand,

I.

Anon exped him here; but if (he b«

Sbtkefpeare,
Uiibalcd and envensm'd.
Alcide?, from Occhalia crown'd
With con*|ueft, feltth' etnfenom'd rohc, and tore,

Obdurate ta entrmiies. Cod forbid

TUro' paiii, up by the tgou Thelfaliaa pines.

If niy weak orator

Cm ficm his mother win the duke of Yori{>

Milt.

Not

E N V

N V

fi

Tv'or with eHvfiom'J ton juc to blaft tfis.fiiwe'

Of harmleft men.

fiege; to hera in*
Methought-a legion of foul fiends
Envirmcd ms, and howled in mine ears.

Oh, what a world is t* ;, whtn what is comely
fffViT/awf him that bears it! Shakef. Asyoullkcit,
Withherlull force (he threw the pois'nousdart,

And facrificc to ftrife her houle and hulband'iagK
Dryicn.

4.

Tlicy, in an /»v/ai/(f mediocrity of fortune, do
happ\Jj' poiTefs thcmfclves. Car^iv's Sui'v. "JCorniu,

»./. \i\OTa etniy.'\

One that en-

vies another] a tnaligner;

one that defires

the downfall of another.

Whom ribs of horrour

fcinclly; to number.
You murt not only acknowledge to God that you
(inner, but mult particularly enumerate the
kind* 01' fin whereof you knovf yourfelf guilty.
U^aU's Pfifarationfor Death.
Befldes atum-tating the giols deled of duty to
the que:;n, i (iiew how all things were managed
v.rong.

infeficd the air with his breath, whofe eyes could
not look right upon any happy man, aor ears bear

the burden of any man's prail'c,
SiJ/j^y.
Still in thy right hand carry gentle peace,

To filonce crmljui tonguei. Shakrff, Utnry VIII.
2. Sometimes with agahifi.
Be not thou fWT/ci^j *7^j/7j^ evil men. Vrov. xxiv. 19.

Sometimes with at.
Neither be thou twvim at the wicked.

Sure you miftake'the precept, or the tne
Heaven cannot einhui 3^ his bleflings be. DryJtn.

E'nvioxjslY. adv. [itota eu'viori:.'] With
envy with malignity ; with ill-will, excited by another's good.
Damned fpirits, being fallen from heaven, en-

and prevailing.
2. Intelligence ;

How rrrvioufly the ladies look,

to encompafs ; to encircle.

[from

All the confpirators, fave only he.

Did that they did in envy of great Carfar.
3.

' .N-

tuous and luperiour genius.

5.

6. Publick

an ambaflador.
mcircnger.

Jf'^jh-

But darkoef] and the gloomy (hiie of death

I.

At cv'rypafTage to the fenfes.wait;

To make pregnant.
Me then he left emmmbtd ol this child,
Spenfef,
I

'm your mother J

To bury

;

Shukefpeart^

to hide as in a womb.

Or as the .\frick niger(h-cam envjomis
and after comes,
Having firft made a natural bridge to paff,
for many leagues, far greater than it was
May't not be faid, that her grave (ball reftore
llfelf into the earth,

To E'NVY, V, p. [eavkr, French; invidere,
Latin.]

To hate another Cor ^ccUcncc, happineft, of fuccciJ.

s

Thib lucklcfs child, whoai thusyc fee with blootj.

I.

Still travtl to and fro tlie nerroiu way.

I .

'

Hail to thee, lady! and the grace of heay'n.
Before, behind thee, and on ev'ry hand
Envikel thee round.
Shakcffcare's Olbellt,

And put you in the catalogue of tliofe

Btacimsre.

Sbakeff. Henry VI.
Since (lie muU go, and 1 mull ipourii, come, night,
tni-ircH mc wilb daiknefi whillt I 'write.
'Dtmc

£aco».

a.

That were emuombed mine.

The watthfutfentinelt XI every p^e.

Crir/e you te break your necks.

iiividioul-

[from -w/^c'/.]
To
encompafs; to encircle,
A word proba-

.

Where their report the vital eni/iyi make.
And with ncH trdcu ate commanded back.
.

Sbakfffear,^

,

To htiWHz'tL.v.

A

And their imprelTions to the bt ain convey;

£in>lm you, 'till mifchicf and J>:rpair

repute;

To Enwo'mb. -v. a, [(xomnvomb.']

3.

May never glorious fun reBeft his l>eam«
l^pon the country where you make abode

ill

bly peculiar to Shakeffeare.

A publick mcffenger, in digoJty below

To involve; to envelope.

odium;

Edward Plantagenet (liould be (liewed unto the
people; todifchaige the king of the envy of that
opinion and bruit, how he had been put to death

c J A T I V E L y . adv. [from ettumia'tivc. ]

z.

piia in all thingi that tntiruit and aBeft us, and
blended them together in aknod all our ihoughK.

Malic-e; malignity.
Madam, this is a mecr diftraftion
You turn the good we otfer \tAoenvy.
^

Perfeus fent envoys to Carihafe to kindle their
hatred ag linft the Romans,
Arbutbnot on Ceini.

Millon.

Cod hath Ic.ittettd feveral degrees of pleafure and

Sviifi.

You mav fee the parliament of, women, the littls
if/n/iV/of them to one another.
DryJrti.

'

And with dark Ihades and rocks mvircn'J round,

Shakefp,

Sometimes with to.
Many fuffcred death merely in envy to their vir-

4. Rivalry; competition.

eitundale.]

Now the Lycian lots confjjire

lite

He eoter'd now the bordering defart wild.

Vol. I.

2. It is ufed foraetiracs with of.

nefs.

adr.

With I'htsbu jj Slow Jove's envoy through the air
brings difmal tidings.
Denbam,

and
<emple;
Bacon.
_
Vviihin the tnv'inaitig rocks ftood the city. Sandys.
Thought following thought, and ftep bj llepledon,

.

Envy, to which th' ignoble mind's a (lave.
Is emulation in the learn 'd or brave.
Pofe,

to another.

KmMe,.

2.

or anger and difplcafure at any good of
another which we want, or any advant.ige another
hath above us.
Ray on iheCreation.

E'nvoy. n.f. [env^r, French.]
I. A publick miniltet fent from one power

The manifold ftreami of goodly navigable rivers,

meditation thus purfu'd.

Envy is a repining at the profperity pr good of
another,

Declariitivcly,

upAn a rock,

Envir'yx'J wilb a wiiderneis of (ej.
SiairJ^arr.
The countr)' near unto the city of Sultama is on
every tide envlntied with huge mountains,

Hi's holy

fight of excellence or h-ippincfs.

Taylor.

Tliis prelumpiioa 0i:ly proceeds in refpeA of the
dil'poruive words, and not in regard of the enunciatlve
terms thereof.
Ayliffe.

EN u

Pain felt and malignity conceived at the

1 .

information.

Enu'kciative.

Sm'!/i.

t; a. [inziironntr, French.]

the faine

E'nvy. «,/. [from the verb.]

Declarative; expteifive.

.^s foon as gone, will (hew their fp ght.

taylor.

Who would envy at the prcrpcrity of the wicked,
aad the fuccefsi>4 perfecu tors?
Taylor,

J. Exprcflioa.

^\hen ihey ftirprife me at my book
And fure .is they're alive at night,

many chains, rnvlrotuj

"OWS.

open

It remembers and retains (uch things at were
never at all in thefenfej as the co:.ceptions, etuinciaiions, and ai^ions ol the intelicdt and will.
Utile's Origin of Mani-ind.

;

deavour tnv'iQvfly to obftrufl the ways that may lead
us thither.
Dufpa.

And his difciplcs only envy at.
Ye blew the tire that bums ye. Shalief. H.nryWW.
He that loves God is not difpljafed at accidents
which God chufcs, nor envies at thofc gifts he bc-

to

Preaching is to (trangen and infants in Chrid, to
produce faith; but this facramental enunciation is
the declaration and conlenion ol it by men jn Chrill,
declaring it to be done, and owned, and accepted,

Commonly with of.

To

at.

exprefs.

Declaration; publick. atteftation;
proclamation.

Dryden.

In feeking tales and informations
Againft this man, whofe honclly the devil

To ENU'NCMTE. i>. a. [ennmin, Latin.]

Prav, tivt. 19.

as

knowledge.

m

t.

Swift.
inipart unwillingly ; to

To E'nvy. v. It, To feel envy; to feel pain
at the fight of excellence or felicity : with

chemills make fpirit, fait, Tulphur, water,
and earth their five elements, though they are not
all agreed
this enum^raiion of elements.
IVatis.

Enuncia'tion. v. /. \enunciatio, Latin.]

to

Jonlbn, who, by ftuilying Horace, had been acquainted with the rules, fcemed to en-vy ethers that

'i'h«

To declare; to proclaim; to relate;

;

withold malicJouny.

SrtJft.

Whofbever reads St. PauVtenniiieratlonof duties,
mull cjncljdc, that well nigh the bulinel's of Chiiiliaiiity is laid on charity.
Sprait,

to yourproteftion.

To grudge

number told out,

E'n'Vious. ff.^'. [fromr^xy.l
1. Infefted with envy; pained by the excellence or happinefs of another.
A man of the moll rnvituf difpontion that ever

.

It

3.

Enumera'tion. n.f. [emtmciatie, Latin.]
The ati of numbering or counting over;

Clarendon

;

The

.

Alpiier; but their thoughts prov'd fond and vain.
Millon.
AU preferments in church and (late were given
by him, all his kindred and friends proinoted, and
all his enemies and cm'itrs difcountenanced.

1 lUnd.;is one

Cleaveland.

are a

They ween'd

To furroand

environ,

fo ENU'MERATE.'t'. a. [euumero, Latia.]
To reckon up fingly ; to count over di-

To win the mount of God, and on his throne
To fet the emner of his (late, the proud

1.

.ill

Shakeffeare,

You cannot en-uy your neighbour's wifdom, if he

gives you good caunfel ; nor his riches, if he ftipplies
you in your wants ; nor his greataefs, if he employs

neighbourhood, or neighbouring places
round about the country,

in compliments; for thatenv/Vrx will giv-tthemtiiat
attribute to tiicdifjdvautage of their virtues. Baion.

To Envi'ron.

_

To inclofe; to invert.

Envi'rons. II. /.[fuviio.is, French.]

Men had need beware how fhey be too perfeiS

4.

I have feen the 5ght,

When I have envied thy behaviour.

The foldier, that man or" iron.

E'nviable. adj, [from <«-^'.] Defervlng
envy; fuch as may excite envy.

3.

in another.

Shahf,

1 did

That thus envmom'd flie might kindie rjge

!

Collier of Envy.

To grieve at any qualities of excellence

2»

but i>rompt the age to quit their clogs,
By the known ruks of ancient liberty.
When llraight a barbarous noife environs me. Mih.

And fix'd it deep witliin Amata's heart

E'nvier.

lE»vy thou not the opprefTor, and chiife none of
prov. lii. 31.
A woman does not envy a man for fighting courage, nor a man a woman for her beauty.

Sbaktfp,

la thy danger.
If ever danger do cfitiroii thee.
Commend thy grievance to iriy holy prayer.

3. To enrage; to exafperate,

'

his ways.

•

To make odious.

*..

To furroimd in a hoftile mannet; to be-

'3.

Philips.

E O L

Her greater, purer, finer than belbre i

Donne.

A

Eo'lipils. St./. [from -rffti/w and ///«.]
hollow ballof met'iL witha long pipe;
which ball, filled with water, and expo fed to tile fite, fends out, a^ the water
hcAM,
4 ">

E P H

PT

heats, at intervals, blafts of cold wind
through the pipe.
CoiinJering the rtni^re of thai globe, the eilerior criul, and the watcn lying round under it,
kotb expoTcd to the Tun, we may fitly com|ftrc it to
•a rJifiU, or an Kollow fphcre with water ia it,
which llie heat oi' the fire rarefies, and turns into
£urne[*t ^Tvt!srj of the £arth.
vapours and wind.
number, whereEpa'ct. »./• ['«••""».]
by wc note the exce(s of the common fo-

lEFHEXltllON-WORM.
and ivorm.^ A fort of worm that lives
but a day.

Swammerdam ohfervej of the (fitmiroK-ivtm-;
their food is clay, and that lliey make their
Dnhum.
cells of the fame.
EpHOD. //./. [.11D«] A fort of ornament
that

lar vear above the lunar, and thereby may
find out the age of the moon every year.

year get eleven days before the folar year

and thereby, in 19 years, the moan comor gets

up one whole folar year; and having finifhed that circuit, begins again with the
For
fun, and fo from 19 to J9 years.
the firft year afterwards the moon will go
before the fun but 11 days; the fecond
year 22 days; the third 33 days: but 30

being an entire lunation,

call that away,

and the remainder 3 (hall be

Array 'din rpbodi ; nor fo few
As are thofe pearls of morning dew,
Which hang on herbs and flowers.

cpa£l; and fo on, adding yearly 1 1 da)s.
1 o find the epa^, having the prime or
golden number given, you have this rule

E'pic. adj.
tive;

I>ivide bv three ; Tor each one left add ten
Thirty rcje& ; the prime mak.cs efuli then. Hurfis.

and that of the fun the domiaicAl letter, throughout

Epa'ulmint. n. /. [French, from //Wf,

'ttoi.']

[In gramEpe'nthesis. »./.
nur.] The addition of a vowel or conHarn'i.
fonant in the middle of a word.
[tT«;J««-tj.3

acted,

R'PH/J. n.J'. [Hebrew.] A meafure among
the Jews, containing fiften folid inches.
The *fka and the bath ihall be of one mer.furc
that the bath may contain tlie tenth part of aa

;

honer, and the tpha the tenth part of au homer.
Extkiti.

EpHe'mEK*. 7/./; [t^i)^if».]

». /.

[epkurcus,

Latin, j

recommend hirafcif to his millrcls,
(hall make him uncafy ip tlie want of any fart oi
the defire to

'

Locke.

knowledge.

ffbtien.

EPilE'MERlS. ».j: [i(h*H^.^
I.

tions.
,2.

Pitt

account of tlie daily motions and fi-

tiiations of the plar.ets.
When caftmg up his eyes agalnll the light.
Both month and day, and hour he raeafut'd right
And told more truly than the t^b^mtns j
for art may err, but nature cannot mili.
DrjJin.

Eriib'MERlST. K./. [imin rphtnieris.'] One
who confults the planets one who ftudies
;

or pr.-ii\ircs ailrology.

The

iiiglit

digliling (he
iliijcal

art ot

rpitmeri^i,

•aiivuict.

wa> dilcourfmg of and
fiiolilh afUologtrs,
and gcnc-

bci'iic,

be

tfa*l pry

iuta Ihe

Here do you keep a hundred knights and fcjuires;

Men lb diforder'd, fo debauch'd, aad bold.
That this our court, infcfled with their manners.
Shews like riotous inn epicurifm and lull
Make it a tavern or a brothel. Hijuke/f. King Lear.
There •« not hslf fo much ificurijm in any of
;

A journal; an account of daily tranftc-

Itorufcope of
i^ntttl.

amuferaents equally laudable and epiH^'ifr,
dt:rnick among perfons of honour.

or in other

3, General;

their

mod ftudied lujurics, as a bleeding fame at

their mercy.

Not ufed, nor

univerfal.

proper^
They're citizens o* th' world, they're all in all:
CUui>eUnd.

Scotland's a nation epidtmic.il.

EpiDt'RMis^. n.f. [J TiiJif/*'«•] The fcarfflcin of a man's body.
E'PIGRAM. n.f. [fpigrammat Latin.] A.
;lhort poem terminating in a point.
colkgc of witcrackers canuoi flout me out of my
humour: do'lt thou think I can for a fatire or an

A

ShaUfpeare.
than the epigram uf
Moorc upon the name of Nicolaus, an ignorant phy&ciaa that 'ludi been thi death of thoufands ?

epigram ?
.

What can be more witty

Peachmn tfPuiry.
\ wijit
Gey.
All epigam that boalU more tmih than wit.

Epigramm a'tical, 1 aiij.\epigrtiiitmati(iis,
Epioramma'tick.
1.

J

Latin,]

Dealing in epigrams; writing epigrams..

_

Epictj'REAN.fli^'. Luxurious } contributing
to luxury.
Tie up the libertine in a iield of feafts.
Keep his brain fuming; epieureqn cooVSf
Shakeff.
Sh.irpen witt^ tioylefs fauce his appetite.
Shak.
What jdamii'd <'^K'««<i«rafcal is this!

a mere bubble or blaft,

and lilcc an efijbtmiraj tit ot applaufe.

Souib,.

He ought to have been bufied in lofing his money,.

A

Ephe'meral. "XaJj. [i<^/*i{io«.] Diurnal;
E'l'icuRiSM. n. f. [from epicure.'] Luxbeginning and ending
EpHE'MEmcit. J
ury; fenfual enjoyment; grofs pleafure.
in a day.
This vm no more than

The more epidemical, and prevailiog this evil iv
who thine as etcep-^

the mote boaourabla are thole

follower of Epicurus ; a man given wholly
to luxury.
Then fly falfe thanes.

And mingle with the Englilh epieilret.-. Sbatrfp.
The epicure bucklei to ftudy, When (h.imf, or

great

numben.

Sandyt'i P,ir,it>'orii,fi.

Your lading ificcdium,

affefting

prevailing;

tions.

Brtomi.
which wc q^ll cyie.
Epicu'dium. a.'/. [!T(K^««,.l .^^S^f^'
a poem upon a funeral.
You from above (hall hear each day
One dirge dilpatch'd unto your day ;
Thefe, your own anthems, Ihall becsme

E'PICURE.

Generally

Narra-

fable

In fortification, a fidcwork
made either of earth thrown up, of bags
of earth, gabions, or of fafcines and eartli.
It fometimes denotes a femibaftion and a
fquare orillion, or mafs of ea: ch faced and
lined with a wall, defigned to cover the
Harris.
cannon of a cazemate.

a Ihoulder.]

An infeft that lives only one day.

Latin;

Drydtn.
tragedy lor the paiuons.
Froin morality they formed that kind of poets and

Uildir.

A fever that terminates in one day.

[epicus,

comprifmg narrations, not

Crjunt,.

of the plhce.

Sandyt.

atchieved by a hero.
Holmes, whofc name (hall live ia efh fong,
While mufic numbers, or while verfc lias feet. DryJ.
The ej'ic poem is more for the manners, and the

all their variations ; fo this Dionyfian period lerves
to (liew thefe two cycles both together, and how
they priced or vary all along, 'till at laft they accomplilh their period, and both togeilicr take their

1.

In regard of the epicycle, or lefler orb, whereiit
the motion of the moon is various and
lirQVJt*unequal.
Gird the fphete
With centric and eccentric, fcribbi'd o'Sr;
Cycle and epycUle, orb in orb. Militn'i Par. Loji^
it moveth,

2.

but rehearfed. It is ufually fuppofed to
be heroick, or to contain one great aftion

As the cycle of the moon ferves 10 lliew tlie efailt,

2,

£xod, xxxix. z.

fcarlet, and fine twined linen.

that year's

beginning again, after every 5 J 2d year.

planet fafteiied to it round about its proHarris,

per centre.

A

For the folar year confiding of 365 days,
the lonar but of 354, the lunations every

iz lunations,

in the defereni.of a planet, is carried along
with its motion; and yet, with its owa
peculiar motion, carries the body of the

That worn
by the high priell was richly compofed of
gold, blue, purple, crimfon, and twilled
cotton ; and upon the part which came Epicy'cloid. n.f. [jTixmtAeiiJijj.]
curveover his two fhoulders were two large
generated by the revolution of the periprecious ftones, upon which were enphery of a circle* along the convex or
graven the names of the twelve tribes of
Harris^
concare part of another circle»
Ifrael, upon each ftone fix names. Where
Ep 1 d e;m 1 c ai,. 1 ..
^.^^-j.
^,
^j^^
rJ
the ephod crofied the high prieft's bread, EPIDE MICK.
•'
J
was a fquare ornament, called the brealt u That which falls at once upon great
plate; in which twelve precious ftones
numbers of people, as a plague.
were fet, with the names of the twelve
It was conceived not to be an efedcmic difeafe,.faut
to proceed from a malignity in the conltitution of l}i&
tribes of Ifrael engraved on them, one on
air, gathered by the predifpoTitionsof feafons. fior^'r..
The ephods worn by the
e^ach ftone.
As the proportion of epidewicai difeafes (hews the
other priefts were of plain linen. Calmet.
aptnefs ot the air to fudden and vehement imprcf—
He made the ephod oi gold, blue, and purple, and
fions, the chronical difeafes ihcw the ordinal^ temper

worn by the Hebrew pricfts.

A

pletes 20 minutes

t P I

«. /. [ftOIO \i(iiu^n

('i''.

ernment of lh< lang^i.

Some good men have ventured to call munificence,
the greaieft I'eiifuality, a piece of eficmi/vi.

Our good epigrammaticaJ poet, old Godfrey of*
Winchcller, thiiiketh no ominous fojcfpcaking to lie
Camdex.
in names.
^
2. Suitable to epigrams j belonging to epi-

grams.

He it every where above ctmceiis otepigrammjtieh
wit and grofs hyperboks.: he maintains majclly in
the midll of plainnefs ; he fhines but glares not
jiddifo".
and Is ftately,. without ambition.
He has none of thofe little jwints and puerilities
that are fo often to be met with ih Ovid; none ol
the epigran:iratici turns of I.ucan; jione of thofe
f\vellit:g fciitimcnts which

are fo frequent in Slatius

and Claudiau ; none of thofe mixt emhcllilhmcnts of
Addifon.
Taifo.

Ef igra'mmatist. 71./. [from epigram.]
One \»ho writes or deals in epigrams.
A jeft upon a poor wi', at firft might have had

Ca/jmj's SermetiJ.

an efiframinalijt for its father, and been afterwards

To EpicORi'zE. v. a. [from £//(«»•/«.] To
devour like an epicure. A word not ufed.

Pi^pe.
grately underUood by fome jiainful coUetlor.
Such a cuftomer the tpigrammatift Martial meets
withal, one who, after he had walked through the

While I could fee thee full of eager pain

My greedy eyes epicurix'd on thine.

falrcrt

F/aU/ian.

Epicy'cle. «./ [iVi and kma©'.] A little
circle whofe centre is in the circumference
of a greater; or'a fthall «rb, which, being

itrcettwiceor thrice, cheapening je« els, plate,

rich hangings, came away with a wooden dilh.

Peacbaif,

Epi'oraphie. n.f. [imyf»<pi.]
on a ftatue.
fcription
^

An inDia,

E'PILEPSy

.

fi

E Q^U

E P I

p I
Pfe!»<y

'

(ince efifcofacy

or convulfive motion of the whole body,

or fome of its parts, with a lofs of fenfe.
A convulfive motion happens when the
l)lood, or nervous fluid, runs into anjpart with {o great violence, that the mind
^imcj.
cannot rcftrain them.

Con-

naturally from it.
The poem hath no other efifoJei than fuch as
naturally arife from the fubjeft. /iddifon't Sptfiaror.

If it be true that good wine needs no bulh, 'tis
true that a good play needs no ef>iUgue ; yet to good
wTrie they do ulegood bulhes, and good plays prove
Sbt>e/iK
the better by the help of good epUognes.

with great indammaHon and pain. IVifeman's Surg.
n. f,

A church

r»»if«rii«,]

twelfth day

Ef irHONE'HA, a. /. fiVi^«'i)^,]

An ex-

ow

alt fcnrcncts where 'he fpicd a note
If thofe preachers who
of admiration at the end.
Abound in epithincmai would but look about them,
they would hnd one part of their congregation out
of countenance and the other alleep, except perhaps
an old female beggar or two in the ides ; who, if
they be &ncerc, may probably groan at ihe found.

-ing (o Ikip

Sivift.

Em'phor.v. »./. [«ri'(p«f«.]

An inflamma-

bt:t more efpecially a
defluxion of humours on the eyes. Harris.

Drawing.

1.

This is now the more frequent, though lefs proper fenfe.

2. Btiftering.

This matter ought
parti,

[from

atij.

Wi,

^cIaaop and <rx«jfo«,]
Is applied to planti
that bear their feed on the back part ©f

tneir leaves.

j

tirely unite.

When loofe epiftles violate challe eyes,
She half confent:>, who filently denies.

z.

an efijlolary correfpondence between the two heads.
Addifon,

Epi'stler. n. J.SJmm epijllt.'] A fcribbler of letters.
E'pitaph. a /. [i».7«;ki«<.] An infcription
upon a tomb.
Live tliU, and write mine efilapb.

jurifdirtion ; fo that there was little more than the

nK

of ifi/npacy p rtfcivU.

Clanndtn.

.\

fongj

a compliment

upon

marriage.
prefunK to invite you to thefe facred nuptials:
the etitia/amium fung by a crowned mufe. Sandys.
The forty-fifth pfalm is an epiibaUwium to Chrift
and the dlurch, or to the lamb and his fpoufc. Burnet.
I

E'pitheM. ti. /. [1'ti3»/*(».]

a liquid me-

dicaoient externally Spplied.
EpitbeniTj or cordial

applications, are juftly ap-

Brnvn'i p^uigar Errours.
Cordials and epiibems are alfo necelfary, to refill

the putrelaflion and rtrengllien the vitals.' li'ifvman.

E'PITHET. n.f, [iVlS-tTof,]

An adjeflive denoting any quality good
or bad : as, the •verdant grove, the craggy
mountain's laj'ty head.
I

affirm with phlegm, leaving the effiibets of falfc,

fcandalous, and villainous, to the author,

HiL'ifi,

ufed by fome writers improperly
for title, name.
The epitijet of {hades belonged more properly to
It is

lh« dariiucft tbao tin icficiliment.

Addifn.

by amputa-

Lefs properly, to diminifh
tion ; to curtail.

We have epitomi3.ed many particular words to the
detriment of our tongue.
AdJifon'i Spe&ator.
Epi'tomiser. J «. /. [from epiiomije.] An
;;}J abridger; to abftra^erj
Epi'tpmist.
a writer of epitomej.
E'PoCH. In. f. Vi7:»x,i^ The time at
Epo'cHa. J whicn
new computation
is begun ; the time from which dates are
numbered.
Mofcs dilliii£lly computes by certain interval;,'
memorable seras and epoelms, or terms of time.
Bro'ttite.

No aOion leave to bufy ehroniclcs:
Such whole fupine felicity but makes
R'yleit^
In ftory chafms, in epocbas miltakeS.
Their feveral epocbas or beginnings, as from the
creation of the world from the Hood, from the fir.t
olympiad, from the building of Rome, or from any
remarkable patfage Or accident, give us a pleafant
profpeft into the hillories of antiquity and of former
Holdfi' oii Timfi

Time is always reckoned from fome known partB
of this fenfibic worldi and from

Utcay Ijl'iity.

Ibme certain epocbt

marked out to us by the motions obfervable in it.
Locke.

Time, by ncceflity compell'd, (hall go
Through fcenea of war, zni epocbai of woe.

Piior.

Epo'de. n.f [£Ta'J\&-.] The flanza follow*
ing the ftrophe and antiftrophe.
An epick <y he*

Epopb'e. n.f. [tjoroi',]
roick poem.

Tragedy borrows frUln the epopee, and thai tvhich
borrows

plied unto the left breaft.

1.

and the

epii'jmticed ^

whole fpeclcs in miniatuic.
2.

ages.

Others immortal epitupbs defign
With wit and llrength that only yields to thine.
Smitb.
EprrHAt-A'MiiJM. n, /. [iTi ^tihafb(Sy-

2.

Th- bilhopt dnrll not contdl with the afTcmbly in

Shakeff.

Some thy iov'd duli in Parian Itonei enlhrine,

A nuptial

mankind

Some lazy ages, loft In deep and eafe.

I ftiaH carry on

Epi'floce. n.f. IititA**)),] A figure of
rhetorick, by which one ager.-ivation, or
(Iriking circumftance, is added in due

apof^les.

If the ladies take a lil:ing to fuch a diminutive

Thefe are the praAifet of the world lince ths
year liityj the grand epoch of talfliood, as well ai
debauchery.
Snilb,

Relating to letters ; fuitable to letters.
Tranfafted by letters.

I.

Ddnne.

That they did all to you epiiomife.
fact, tve Ihould fee

Drjdeit,

Epi'stolary. adj. [from <-/jtf/<-.]

Ififeman.

fradation to another; as, be not only fparcd
it eiiemiei,
but cmtintud them in empliytiUHt; not only <ontiniui, but adoanced them.
Eri'scoPACV. », /. [efi/cipalus, Latin.]
The government of bilhops, the government of the churcli eftabiifhed by the

Ariatlom.

bliltering.

Harris.

Epi'phvsis, ti. /. [«»ii^t«ri«»] Accretion;
•the part added by accretion
one bone
growing t© another by fimple contiguity,
without any proper articulation, i^incj.
The efifhjifit of the os femoris ii a diilindl bjn«
from it in a child, whereas in a man they do en-

to be folicited to the lower
by fomentations, bathings efiffaiickty and

EPI'-^TLE. w. /. [«Vi«-oAii] A letter. This
word is feldom ufed but in poetry, or on
occafions of dignity and folemnity.

tion of any part,

^PIPBYLtosr E'iMous.

Who

did the whole world's foul contraft, and droK
Into the glaifcs of your eyes
So made fuch mirrours and fuch fpiest

DryJer.

Epupa'stick. »./. [iVi and tfjziu.]

clantration ; a conclufive fentence not clofe-

ly ccmnefted with the words foregoing.
i know a gentleman, who made ija rule in read.-

fpace.

difcDver the difTerence between the ef'ffojiili anil

I

principal adion, as welt as the nature otcpifodes.
N'jtes ctn the OJ\Jpy.

Saviour's being marlifefted to tht; world,
by the appearance ol a miraculous blazing

which conduced the magi to the
Diet,
-place where he was.

7s E'piTO.MISE. T. a. [from epitor/ie.]
1. To abftra^; to contract into a narrow

fuch as defcriptions and

of Ariftotle.

after Chriftmas, in iommemorationof our

ftar,

Lociie.

Such abftrafts and epitomes may be reviewed in
their proper places. M-'atii's Jmprrvem. of the Mind.

in a poem, fepa-

from the main fubjeft, yet rifmg

Kpifodicgl ornaments,

The etinyflit is of the bigncfs of a lupin, of a
duflcy red, and fomctimes of a livid and pale colour,

celebrated oft the

were a fhort and plaint
epitome made containing the moil material heads.

narrations, were delivered to u> fromtiie obfervations

Dryden.

ffott.it.

pertinency.

taining to an epifode.

A fore at the

feftival,

Sbakef. Curishnut,
Epitomes are helpful to the memory, and of gocxj
private ufe; but fet forth for publick monuments,
accufe the indufti ious writers of deliveritig much im.

Episo'dical. J fli^'. [from epi/ode.'^ ConEpiso'dick. J tained in an epifode ; per-

corner of the eye.

Kn'pHANY.

This is a poor epitome of your's.

it ivould be wxll, if thert

Jtrbutbnot wJ Diet.

poem or fpeech at the end of a play.

Sl^akcfpenre,

May (hew like all yourfelf.

Rogen,

narrative, or digreffion

The

do fuffcrlove indeed (

Which, by th' interpretation of full time.

bilhop.

{tpilagus, Latin.]

I

my will.

abbreviature; compendious abilta6l; coni'.

Epi'scop\te. w./. fc/^fa/ff/aj-, Latin.] A
bifhoprick; the office and dignity of a

rable

love thee againll

pendium.

pattern of good works himfclf, but to ufe his r/;/ro^a/ authority iaeihorting every rank and order of

men.

I

EPITOME, n.f. [iiTiT.f/,;!.] Abridgement

Veiled in a bifhop.
The apolUe commands Titus hot only to be a

E'PISODE. «. / [iT.orwJ'a.] An incidental

Are you mad, you dog?
1 am to life and fpeak the epilogu*.
E«int'ctis. 17. J. \hiaiii\i^,\

for

tlooker.

-

?——

Suffer love! a good epithet :

authority of elders, and to takeaway efifcofni! jurifdidtios.

It is ufed improperly (otphrafe,exprrJ/ititi.
For which of my good parts did you lirlt fufftr

love for me

AyUJ<:.

A plague upon your efHefikk vilage
Shirie/p,
Smile you my fpceches, as 1 were a fool ?
£fileflicis ought to breathe a pure air, unaffected
with any fteams, even fuch as are very fragrant.
E'fiLocut. «. /.

^.

not prcfcribed by any time what-

Belonging to a bifhop.
The plot of difcipline fought to ereft a popular

1.

2.

flriLF-'pTlcit. aJJ. [from efiltjyjy.]
vulfed ; difeafed with an epilepfy.

is

Epi'scoPAL. adj. l^Tom epifcapus , Latin.]

Hiaiefpeare' s Otbillo.
Thit'is the fecond tit.
Melancholy diftempere are deduced from fpirits
drawn from that cachochymia-, the phrcnitis from
cholerick fpirits, and the rfHrpfy from fumes.
Player ox the Humours^

Mnnot be tnmi by prefcriptian,

foever.

^

Mv lord is fell into an e^'lrffy

itftlf

is

own,

of lefi dignity, becaufe it has not ,of itj
Dryden't yir^il.

Epi/la'tion. *./.
quet;

[eptdatio, Latin.]

Ban-

feaft.

Contented with bread and water, when he woul3i
dine with Jove, and pretended to epiilation, he^de*
bred no other addiljoa tiisn a piece ol cheefe.
JJroivM^s Vulgar

En ours.,

Epui.o'tick. ti. f. [(*-ei(A<ij-(»<&-.] A ci'
catrifing medicament.
The ulcer, incarned with cotnmon fareoticlcs, anJ
the ulcerations about it, were cured by ointment of
tuty, and fuch like epuloticks.
IVifeman of tnfiam^

Eqvabi'lity. (f. /. [from fy//(73A.] Equality to itfclf : cvenncffi* unifi»rmity,

S >

'

iot

.

E (vy

E CLU
For the celedial b<aies the ejuaiility anJ conftancy of tKeir motions argue them ordained by
Wtfifom.
/{,/,,.

The tjuaiil!/jio! the temperature of the air rendered the Afuticks lazy.

m A!r.

Ariulbnit

I

To

1

'

a.

To rife to to the fame ftate with another
I

know no body fo like to equal him,'even at the

1

ceniripctal forces will be reciprocally as the fquares
of the dilUnccs.
Cbeyne.

proportion.

Nor you great queen, thefe officcirepent,

Which he will equ.il, and perhaps augment. Dryd.
To E'qu a I s . v.a. [from e^ual ]

To make even.

1.

To equalife accounts we will allow thiee hundred

2.

2.

Even ; uniform.

At their vain triumphs, and their vainer teatSi

With fair equaliiy^ fraternal ftate,

An equal temper in his mind he found,
When fortune flattet'd him, and when Ihefrown'd.
Dry den.

May ieain to bear the fate the gods allot me. Smith.
j^ In juft proportion.
It is not permitted

me to make my commendation

xq:ial to your merit.

Dryden'i tab. Dedication.

define the alterations oi their tempers, conceive a
regularity in mutations, with an t-quality in conftitutions, and forget that variety which phyficians

And both (hall draw the lots their fates decree.
Drydtn's /£».

6. Indifferent.

They who are not difp^Ted to receive them, may
me.

Chtyne^tPhil. Prin.

advantageous alike to both

Mac,

dition:.

fame terms.

They made

the married, orphans, widows, yea
and the aged alfo, equal \a fpc^ls v.'ith tliemfelves.

Mac.

E'qual. ». /. [from the adjeflive.]

One not inferior or fuperior to another.
He is enamoured on Hero I pray you, dilTuade
lim from her ; flie is no equal for hi^ birth.
kliakiffeare'i Much Ado.
:

He would make them all equah to the citizens of
Komc.

-

•

z Mac. ix. 15.

Thofe who were once his equalt, envy and defumc
him, becaufe they now fee him their fuperior; and
thofe who wereonce his fuperiors, becaufe they look
Addijon.
upon him as their cqujl.

To my dear equal in my Dative land.
1 his received
plighted vow i gave
Each^worc with truth, with pleafurc each bcliev'd:

My

;

The mutual contraft was to heay'n coavcy'd. Trior.
One <)f ihc fame age.

a.

1.

In the fame degree with another perfon
or thing; alike.

To reconcile men's vices to their fears is

Whence many a burfting ftreana auriferous plays.
Tbomfinh

the

Equato'rial. adj. [from equator.']

aim of all the various fcheraes and projeds of fin,

Per-

taining to the equator; taken at the equator.

Roget s.

Hefubmitted himfelf, andfwareto all equalcan-

I.

E'qu ALLY. adv. [from egt/al.]

and is equally intended by .itlieifm and immorality.

parties.

'

Bro^vn's yulgar-Emurs.

therein difcover.

of the places

By reafon of the convexity of the earth, the eye.
of man, under the equjtcr, cannot difcover both the
poles: neither would the eye, under the poles,,
difcover the fun in the equator. Brawn's fulg. Err,.
On the other fiJe the equator there is much land
Ray on tie Creatioit.
ftill remaining undifcovercd.
Rocks rich in gems, and mountains bigwith mines,
equator
ridgy
rift,
That 00 the high
^

equability.
Meafure out the lives of men, and periodically

Each to his proper fortune ftand or fall
Bt^uat and unconccrn'd I look on all
Rulilians, Trojans, are the fjme to me.

latitude

Whenever the fun comes to this circle, it
makes equal days and nights all round theglobe, becaufe he then rifes due eaft and
fets due weft, w hich he doth at no other
Harris,.
time of the year.

Evennefs; uniformity j conilant tenour;

3.

5. Impartial; neutral.

8. Being upon the

plement of the

Will arrogate dominion undefcrv'd,
Milton's Paraiife Lojl.
Over his brethren.
According to this enu.tlily wherein God hath
placed all mankind, with relation lo himfelf, in all
the relations between man and man there is a muS-ui/t.
tual dependance.

Think not of me, perhaps my equal mind

7. Equitable;

The fame degree of dignity.
One Ihall rife,
Of proud ambition ; who, not content

He laughs at all the vulgar cares and fears.

it is equal to

Lat.]
The
tt. /. [aqiuitor,
equator on the eatth, or eqiiino^ial in
the heavens, is a great circle, whofc poles
It divides
are the poles of the world.
the globe into two equal parts, the
northern and fouthern hemifpheres. It
paffes through the eaft and weft points of
the horizon ; and at the meridian is raifet^
as much above the horizon as is the com-

EQUA'TOR.

Equality of two domeftick powers.
Breeds fcrupulous fadlion. Sbattfp, Anth, and Cleof.

Clartndon.

let them aione, o; rcjcd ihcm ;

in regard of its bignefs, to eqiudife and
a thing bigger than it is.
Vigby.

That if together ye fed all one fiame.

The Scots truilcd not their own numbers as equal
3.

:

Of what her eyes have kindled in ray heart. Waller.
EqyA'nTy. n.f. [from equal.'\
1. Likenefs with regard to any quantities
compared.

The differ-

ence between the time marked out by
the fun's apparent motion, and the time
that is meafured by its real or middlemotion; according to which clocks anl
Di{l^
watches otight to be adjufted.

a fenfe not ufed.
That would make the moved body, remaining

It could not equ.tiife the hundredth part

to fight with the Englifli.

Di3,

Equa'tion. [In aftronomy.]

Ye lofly beeches tell this matchlefs dame,

Ecclef.

Adequate to any purpofe.

3.

=

what it is,

Equal lot

.

Bro,

To be equal to
fit

Millat.
Altiiough there were no man to take notice of it,
every triangle would contaia three angles equal to
two right angles.
Bale.

E(}ua'tion. [In algebra.] Is .in exprcffion
of the fame quantity in two difliniilar
terms, but of equal value; as 3/.
36^.

and lo long a time as we iian manifell from

the Scripture.

among great men, make not thyfelf

May join us; equal ]oy, as ejualhve.

m

Drydefi.

nor better.
<7«a/wilh them.

By an argument taken from the equatimsof {hi
times of the edipfes of Jupiter's fatcllites, itfecms
time, fpendii^ in its
that light is propagated
paffjge from the fun to us about fcven minutes of
Ne^'tbn*s Opticks.
time.

She fought Sicheus through the Qiady grove,
Who anfwer'd atl her cares, and eqxai'd aii her love.

Like another in bulk, excellence, or any

If tliou be

tables of equation of natural days, to be applied to
the mean motion by addition or fubHradion, as the
Bolder on Time,
cafe Ihall require.

Shakefpeare.

To recompenfe fully ; to anfwer in full

yeais,

other quality that admits comparifon;
neither greater nor lefs; neither worfe

We are to find out the extremities on both fides,
and from and between them the middle daily motions of the fun along the Ecliptick; and to frame

One whofc all not equah Edward's moiety.

E'qual. adj. \j£(jmtlis, Latin.]
I.

to be applied to the whole.

To be equal to.

4.

yteqnauimtA, i'LAtS\
;

veftigation of a mean proportion'collefted
from the extremities of excpfsand deleft,

Trumbull to Pope.
3.

,

not elated.
Eqx-a'tion. »./. [^eeqiiare, Lat.] The<n-

age he wrote moll of them, as yourfelf.

E'quABLY. (7<//. \}X0iva equable. ^ Uniform-

the I'quares of their pervodical times be as the cubes
of their diilances from the convnon centre, their

prefled.

Equa'nimous.. ,adj.
Even ; not dejefted

perfon.

Nothing abates acrimony of the blood more than

ly; in the fame tenour; evciily; equally
to itfelf.
1
bodies move equably in concentrick circles, and

Evennefs* of mind, neithet elated nor de>

Cal. i. >4-

[from the noun. J
make one thing or perfon equal to
-v.

zaejuaiU motion of it,

neither too fwift nor too
flow ; for too quick a motion proJucelh an allcaline,
»nd too flow an acid acrimony.
Arbuibtiot.

many my

another.
2.

He would have the vail body of a planet to be as
elegant and round as a fadlitioiis globe reprefents it
to be every where fmooth and tquabU, and as plain
as the elyfian fields.
Binilcy,

above

equal! in mine own nation.

To Equal,

EQUABLE, adj. {aijuabilis, Latin.] Equal

to kfelf ; even ; uniform in reipeft to
form, motion,, or temperature.

:E:Ct.u

profiled in the ]«ws religion

The phnets have fpheroidical figures, and obli--

The covetous arc equally impatient of their condition, equally tempted with the wages of unrighteRogers.
oufnefs, as il ihcy were jjideed poor.

2. Jlvenly ; equably; uniformly.
If the motion of the fun were as unequal as of a
(hip, fomciimes llow, and at others. Uvitt; or, il,
being conftantly equally fwiU, it )ct was not cir-|
cular, .Did produced not the fame appearances, it
would not help us to meafure time more than the
Locke.
motion of a comet does.
3. Impartially.

quitics of their ejualorial to their ecliptick planes.

Cbeyne,

Eque'strian. t7dj. \epifftris, Latin.]
1.

Being on horfeback.,
An equefirian lady appeared upon the plains.
SftSiator.

2.

3

Skilled in borfemanlhip.
Belonging to the fccond rank in Rome.

E'querry.

X. f.

[^cHnV, Dutch.]

Mafter

of the horfe.

We Ihill ufe them,

Ecj^icru'ral. "Xadj. [tsqifitt and erus, LaAs we Ihall find their merits aiiJ our fafcty
May equally determine. Sliakeffeare's Kiiig Lidr. Equicrv're. f tin.
E'qualness; »./. [from equal.'] Equality.) i. Having legs of anequnl length.
Let me lament
2. Having the legs <f an equal length, and
^

'

That our ftars unrecontileable (bould have divided
ShtHt/peare,
Our cqualite/s to this.
1

Equan'gular. adj. [from eqtms and <?»guliis, Latin.] Confiltitig of tqual angles,
Equani'^mity.

». /.

[etquanimitas, Lat.J

longer than the bafe; ifofccles.

An eijuicrtfre •riangle goes upon a crrtain propor- Dighy on the i'jtf..
tion of lengih au.i brtadth,
fucccifively oraw-iines from anele to angle uniirovjn.
dcic-. ibid.
til fevcu equicrural triangles be

We

Eqvudi'stant.

E QJU
EqjJiDi'sTANT.

E Q^U

E CLU
iijlant,

EQUlNo'cTtAtLY. ad-v, [from eqaim^iel.'}

Latin.] At the fame diitance.
tquiDi'sTAKTLY, adv. \itom equidiflaitt.']
At the fame diftano^.

In the direfkion of the equinoftial.
They may be refrigerated indanately, or fome-

aJJ.

[fjuus

aad

E'QUINOX. »./. [o'jtmt and mx, Lat.]
1.

[itjutts

»hd Jbrma,

Nodiverfityor difference, but afimpiicity of parts
and e(fuifarmity oi motion. Btmtin'syulgar Brrours*

Equila'teral. adj. [ejrms and /al/UthiHaving all fides equal.

tin.]

Itarifcth not heliacally about the autumnal ei^ui-

nox.

Circles or fquares, or triangles equihteral^ which
are all figures ot e^ual lines, can ditfer but in gteater
.

womb was about the vernal equinox.

tofTfl/ figures?

If the point of the knife, drawn over the loadftone, have in this affri^ion been drawn from the
equator of the loadltooe towards the pole, it will
attract one of the extremes of an equilibraud magBoyL'i Exj>erimefits.
aetick needle.
The bodies of filhes are ejuUiiraud with the waArbuthnot tit Air.
ter in which they fwim.

And fince the vernal equinox, the fun
Equality ; even meafure.

The one as long as th' other.
Equinoftial wind

Sculi.

It is in ti^uilihrio

As requifiic to form my tale.
Prior.
Health confifts in the cjuilitrium between thofe
two powers, when the fluids move fo equally that
they don't preCs upon the iblids with a greater force
than iliey can bear.
Arbuibiiji.

E<y;iNfc'cES«ARY. adj. [trquus and neeejfariut, Lat.] Needful in the fame degree.
For both to give blows and to carry.
Hudiirai.

EcjuiNo'cTiAL. a./. [<cquusandmx, Lat.]
he line that encompaffcs the world at
an equal diftance from either pole, to
which circle when the fun comes, he
makes equal days and nights all over the
globe ; the fame with equator.
Eqjjiko'ctial. adj. [from <';«;>a;r.]
'1

1.

It feems but equitable to give the artiftj leave fo-

Bojle'i Scept. Cbymifliname ihem as they pleafe.
2. Loving juftice ; candid; impartial: as,~
an equi table y*<3^f.

[equipfer, French.]

;

E'quitabiy. <7</i/, \liQmequitahle,'\ Juftfy^

j

The country are led aftray in following the town

impartially.

;

and tquipfeJ in a ridiculous habit, when they fancy
fhemlelves in the height of the mode.
Addijcn.

E'cjuiTY. «./. [equile, French; tequims,'Lz.'
tin.]

B.'qo I p A c E . ». /.

[equipage, French.]
Furniture for a horfeman.
2. Carriage of ftatc ; vehicle.
Winged fpirits, and chariots wing'd.
From th' armory of God ; where Hand of old

Foulfubordination is predominalnt,

Pertaining to the eijuinox.

men and the publick peace, enibrcing all jutiice and

He circled four times crofs'd the car of night
f lom pole to pole, travetfmg each colure. Mlllsti.

The god of war, with his tierce cjuijiage.
Thou dnft awake, fleep never he fo found. Fairy ^.
Think what an nquipage thou had in air.

And view with fcorn two pages and a chair. Pope,
4. Accoutrements ; furniture.
E'cyJiPACHD. adj. [from equipage.^ Accoutred ; attended ; having fine habits ;
having fplendid retinue.

Equi'vALEKCE. 7 //./.

EquiValency. i

Eqvipe'ndency. »./. S^ieqmis and pemleo,
Latin.] The aft of hanging in equipoife;.

Was bid turn rci..> Irom ili' (jiiimftial road.
Like dillant brculih.
MiV(mi farajifi [.oft.
2. Happening about the time of the equinoxes.
3.

Being near the cquinoftial line; having
the properties of things near the equator.
In viin they tover fliades .ind

Pining witli ry»/»-i3w/ heat.

perfett ajuipendency and in-

I hracia's

gales,

Fbiuft.

the

Muft the fervant of God be afTured that which
he nightly prays for (hall be granted ? Vts, either
formally or by way of equivahnre, either that or
Uamaend,
fomething belter.
That there is any eqkli'ahitee or parity of worth
betwixt the good we do to'our brother, and the gpod
we hope iat from. God, ail good Froieltants do deny.
*S'»;.i/i idge.
Civil caufcs are equivalent urtto crimhial caulcs,
but this e'{iiiz'aUncy only rcfpefts the careful and

The will of m.in, in the ftate of innocence, had
a

Equality of'

,

Aiidrn'etiair.ed them right fairly, as befell. Sfrnfer.

Aand or not to Ifand.

[requus Vind <valeo.

Latin.]

power or worth.

She toriti iffued with a goodly train
Oi fquircs and ladies, efuiftagedwcW,

difference 10 ciilicr pait of

The rules of decifion obferved

by the court of Chancery, as diftinft from
the literal maxims of law.

Sbakefptare.

;

Some fay the fun

[In law.]

3.

not Ici.d ihce a penny.

an entire freedom,

Tillotjon.

equity.

2. Impartiality.
Liking their own fomcivhat better than other
mens, even becaufe they are their own, they mull
in equity allow us to be like unto them in thb afHooker.
fection.

not determined either way.

Thrit-c th' equiitoeiiai line

Shakrfp.

Chrilfianity fecures both the private intereft cf'

Milton 's Paradife Lofl.
Attendance; retinue.
Soon as thy dreadful trump begins to found.

I will retort the fum in equipage,

.

And equity vi\\'i your highncfs' land.

Celellial niuifage

1 will

Juftice; right; honefty.

1.

1.

j.

[equitable, French.] ,

Juft ; due to juftice.

1

Myriads, between two braacn mountains lodg'd
Againit a folemn day, haruafs'd at hand,

If deities defcend or no ;

Then let th' affirmative prevail,

In fights, are equinecrjfary.

E' QUIT ABLE,

;

To turnilh for a horfeman or cavalier.
To furnifh to accoutre to drefs out.

1.

2.

I.

pafi, or not <.oinc to paft,

The Scepticks aflfefled an indlfKtent equlpondiout
neutrality, as the only means to their ataraxia.
Giairville's Scefjit,

Arbmbnot on Coins.

To EQUIP, -v. a.

diligent :idmiirion of proofs.

contradiAion, to
South,

Lqji i'p m e n r. It./, from equips
I. 'The a<t of equipping or accoutring,
z. Accoutrement; equipage.
E'quipoise. n.i. ^a quus ,\,ax\n, znd poids
French.] Equality of weight; equilibra-

Aylift's FatergoTt.

To Equivalence, t. c. [from the noun.]

To cquipontierate
Whether

;

to be equal- to.

of. tve fediicip? did
not exctcd .'\djm fcduced, or whether ihe rcfiliiLility
th:;

tranfgrefiioii

of his rcafoodid not equihjaler.ee 'he facility of her
fcduCtioi), we fliajl' relcr to fchoolmen.

Broitn.

F^(iyi'v.^Etiv.adj. [I<^quus and xalait. La- -

tion ; equality of force.

'

titl.J-

In the tcoiperate zone of our life there «c Jew,

I.'

Equal in value.

t,

i

'

.

'

>

.

Not in ufe.

This talent of gold, though notrquinumfrant, nor
any other
yet was equiTalent to lome cotrefpondent uleiit in brafs.
yet equiponderant, as to

and pctidus,

[/ejttus

Lat.] Equilibrated ; equal on cither part.

confining of the fame number.

Derbam.

Things arc not left to an rjui/Jirium, to hover
under ao indiScicnce whether they Ihall come to

IVilkins'i Mali. Magick,

Eqjiipo'ndiovs. adj.

;

Eciuinu'mer,ant. adj. \xquus and Humerus, Lat.]
Having the fame number;

Et^yiLi'sRiUM. »./. [Latin,]
Equipoife; equality of weight.
a. "Equality of evidence, motives, or powers
of any kind.

AO

Shakeffeare's Othello,

a poetical ufe.

the wind, 'tis true,
Was fomewhat high, but that was nothing new.
No more than ufual equtnaxes blew.
Dryden.

The acceffion of bodies upon, or feceflion thereof

obfervcd.

:

The palTage yet was good

'\

furface, perturb not the iqmiliira/i«« of either htmifpherc. Bn-wn's yulgar Ermtt.
In fo great a variety of motions, as running, leaping, and dancing, nature's laws of ejui/Hruiion ate

The heavinefs of any weight doth increafe proportionably to its diitance from the centre : thus one
pound .\ at D, will equiponderate unto two pounds
is double unto A B.
at B, i f the diftance

'Tis to his virtues a juft equinox.

3.

and

thing.

Improper,

Do but fee his vice;

Equipoife; the aft of keeping the balance
even.
from the earth's

Drydeii,

\^cequus

t.-'w.

•

To weigh equal to any

pcndero, Latin.]

In Aries twelve degrees or more had run.
2.

EquiLIBRa'tion. »./. [itoia equilibrate.
.

To Eqj;ipo'nderate.

If March beheld the 6rft created man ;

BertUy.

•

A

Ray.

'Twat now the month in which the world began,

Trifling futility appears in their t«elve figns of
the zodiack and their af^^s : why no more afpcfts
than diametrically oppoticc, and fuch as make c^ui-

To Eciuili'brate. 1'. a. [from equilibrium.^ To balance equally ; ta keep even
with equal weight on each fide.

Ray on theCreation.
column of air, of any given diameter, is fyir;fenderant to a column of quickfilver of between
Locke.
twenty-nine and thirty laches height.
fonderani to the iMiter.

Broixnt,

The time when this kid was taken out of the

Bacen,

or leffer.

Votary refolution is made equipollent to cuftom,

Bacon's EJJ'ayt,
even in matter of blood.
and Libra ; for then, moving exaftly unEquipo'nderance. 1 ff. /. [aquus and
der the equinoflial, he makes our days
Latin.]
EtyjiPo'NDERANCY. J
pondtts,
and nights equal. This he doth twice a
Did.
Equality of weight ; equipoife.
year, about theaift of March and 23d of
Equipo'nderant. ndj. [^tqt/us and poaSeptember, which therefore are called the
dernns, Latin,] Being of the fame weight.
vernal and autumnal equinoxes.
Harris.
Theirlungs may feive to render theirbodies tijui-

Uniform equality.

Latin.]

and pollen-

\tequui

Having equal power or force ; equivalent.

Equinoxes are the precife times in which
the fun enters into the firft point of Aries

Tlie liver, feate d on the right fide, by the fubdavian divilion e^uidijiantty cemaiunicaies unto
either arm.
Br^iun.

v.f.

Equality of force or power.
Ecyjipo'LLENT. adj. \^te quipollens, Lat.]
tia, Latin.]

Bro^-n.

wcifern points.

fccm to be.

Equiformity. v. f.

Equipo'i.lence.

what eijuinoniully ; that is, towards the eaftem and

Tho fixt iJars are not all placed in the fame concave fjpeiiicies, and ejuitlffijKt from us, as they
Raj.

bodies at fuch an equipoi/e of humours ; but that
the prevalMicy of fome one indifpofeth the fpirits.
Glanvitle' sSeeffu

Thlsgf

:

ERE

ECLU
ThiBf*

— But

but iht value, high heaven, thy

Prhr.

Mc

That lies like truth.

theJiralesagainfteiaierfcale} yet could not equivo-

'•-;»'*•

A ^hmg of the fame

Dryitn.
it rells for you to ijiake th" tifuivaient.
Fancy a regular obedience to one law will be a
Rogers.
of another.
full njuh-ilmt fcr their breaeh

noferent things, (landing for different

ro ERA'DICATE. -v. a.
jot.
1. To pull up by the
He fufti:reth the poifon ot "Nubia to be gathered,

i

and Aconite to be eradicated, yet
moved.

V^risot ditferent lignilicatioiis taken in general,
wiih
^re of .in cyjivtcal feni'c ; but being coiifiJered
have their
their particular circumftances, they

happemng dii-"

If vice cannot wholly be rr,ijic.iiej,
leaft to be confined to {>articular objefls.

which is now bclicied never to happen
Hai ns.
alt bodies are univocally producei.

There is no fuch thing as r'lmvtcal or
but

all animals

ought

at

Pepe.
quite away.
Ambiguity; word of To ERA'iiE. 'v. a. [rn/er, Frsnch-J
doubtful meaning,
I. Todedroy,; to exfcind.
*3««'«'j/a have theThe heads of birds, for the mod part, are given
Sh.ill two or three wretched

Their generation's Sor^uivoca/.

^<yji'vocAL. ».y.

Dtnnit.

>

era/id; th:t is, plucked elf.

fenfe.

^

,

,

Words abfttafled from their pKper fcnfc and

Ptacham cm Blawnini.

To expunge; .to rub out.

Eaa'sbmvnt. 7/./ [from <T/7/^.jJ
1.

.
fig-

2.

and are only

nifiealion, lofe the nature of words,
.yi/iVorW/j-fo called.

2.

%.

l>:(ltudion; devitftation.
Expuniflion; abolition.

by

It isJikewritten «Vr, as if from ever.
wifc written or before.<^vrf, o/i and ajfv in
Saxon being indifcrimiately written. Mr.
Ljt.] Before ; fooner than.
Ere J>c would have hang'd a man for the get-

{itoxatqui-vi>cal.\,

paid for the

irregular

f^ui'voc ALNESS. H-,/.

birth;

the tjnivxalnif! or laflitude of the
pjrt
and then point out tli.it determinate
Norris.
the ground of my demonftration.

DillinguiOi

word,

which it

To EeJUi'vofATE.

1).

m. [cefKtvocaiio,

ting a hundred baftards, he would have

nulling a thoufand.

Ambiguity; double meaning.

La-

tin^ To ufe words of jdouble meaning
to ofc ambiguous expreflions ; t9 mean
fine wing an3 cxpr?fs aootbc;«
;

Hhuk.

The lions brake all their bones in pieces or ever
thcycamc to the bottom of the den.

Daniel.

merit
exaltation without change or ctti.
Jull trial, ere 1

MUtcn
The mountain trees in diltant profpeft picafe,

My

Sometime ago^

before

I am as fair now as 1 was emviHe !
Since night you lov'd me.yel lince night you left met
Shaie/p.
fit down to our meals, fufpcA not the in>
trafion of armed uninvited guclh, who ere^vhilet,
we know were wont to furprife us. Decay of Pietj,

To ERE'CT. f. a.

J?r/ yet the pine defcended to the feas j
Ere fails were fpread new oceans to explore. Dtyden.
The birds Oialt ««»fe to tuBc ihui cv'ning fonj,

[erefltis.

To raife in a ftraight line

I.

;

Latin.]
to place per-

pendicularly to the horizon.

To "Erect a PerpendkiAnr. To croft
one line by another at right angles.

2..

To raife.; to build.

5,

Happier walls expeiil.

Which, waud'ring long, at iaft thou (hall errd.

Dry den* s VirgU*
There are many monuments<Trffe</ to benefadlon
Addifon on Italy.^

to the rcpoblick.

To ellablilh anew

4.

;

to fettle.

Rreat ditfereice there is between their proceedwho rreR a new commonwealth which is to
have neither regiment nor religion the fame that
was, and theirs who only reform a decayed Ifate.
Hester,
He fuftirs fevcnty-two diftinfl nations to be erected
out «f the firllanonarchy under diltinft go«rnoius.
Raleigb,
ings,

To elevate
I,

out
etiuivocal generation ; t>y generation
j
of the dated order.
.
„
ejMvtctUy.
proceed
ever
did
animal
No infeft or
as in
from putiefaflion, unlefs in mitaculout cafes j
Bcailiy
Egypt by the divine judgments.

By uncertain or

E'REv/HtxES. J
a little while.

5.

ERt. «</'!,. [a;r, Saxon; «;>, GothicK.; ttr,
Dutch. This word is fometimes vitioufly

^'"'^

CkeyH.

Erewhi'le. \ adv. [froRifw and iuhilc.\

£rciv/i.

Era'dicatj.ve^<7/^'. \from. eraJicate.} 'lliat
which cures radically; that wh>ch drives

jEouivoCALCV..a(/'i;. [uom r^uiiiocal.]
or double
^. Ambiguoufly; ia a doubtful

the word eternally been; Icicnce had bees

Had

upon eradhcaiioii, which is falfe below confutation-

ittc

fome fbort time aliov;
P^y^.

brought to perfection long erentrxu.

Tiiey affirm the roots of mandrakes give a fliriek

Rij\\

force ro corrupt us

.^h, gentle Ibldiers,

My father has repented him ereni'ji.

Stij/r.,

The (late of being torn up by the roots.

2.

are generated by

Tliofe half-learn 'd witHng», num'rous in our
fa hall-form'd infeds on the Banks of N^.e;
Unfinilh'J things, one knows not what to call.

this time.

ftrufiion.; excifion.

fponta-

jrtous generation
animal *parents of the fame fpecies with lhemfel«).
'^
;

it

Eradica'tion. J/./, [from eradicate.]
u 1 he aft of tearing up by the root; de-

;ind female ;

fmaU

We

If a gouty perfon can bring himfclf entirely to a
milk diet, he may fo change the w'hole juices ol
Arhutbtiot.
his body as to eradicate the diftcmper.

plants
Snui-vocal generation is the produflion of

hut that

Brown.
to end^ to cut

off.

without pa-'
without feed, or of infefts or .animals
between male^
in the natural way of toition
rents,

;

this not to be

i.

.
fcnlc reftrained.
were
.The greater number of thofe .who held this
^'^f/'-'
_
mifguided by.c^Bifsfj/ terms.

doubtful;

To completely deftroy

z.

all

«. Uncertain;
fcrent ways.

^. Cbaitci.
{eradict, Latin.]

true mjjelky.

have

Erenoav. fli/i'. [from rrr and «oat;.] "Before

Jimiffion of radiance.
God gives roe a heart ^lumbly to eonverfe with
him, fr»m whom alone are all the etailiatims of

dif-

SiUthg_fl,

It pleafesme to thiiJk, fhal I who know fo

j

[<*ya/To<-7/>, Latin.]

will

a portion of the works of the Creator, and with
flow and painful fteps creep up and down on the
furfaee of this globe, (hall trrloxg (hoot away with
the fwiftnefs of imagination, and trace the fpringt
Speilafjr^
of uature's operations.

from the blcflings they bellow
Oar times are dated, and our eras move.:
They govern, and enlighten all below.
As thou do'll all above.
Eradia'tion. «./. £<• and radiia, Latin.]

weight, dlonity, or value.
The Have without a ranfom fliall be fent;

it

1 (aw tw« ftocW-doves billinj, and erelong
Dryden't Virgil.
IViU take tlie neft.

Gihjan't Camdtn.
^jaxon papa, dwellers.
E'ra. «./. [^ftf, Latin.] The account of
time from any particttlar d*te or epoch.

for now to
Che literal fignilicafion of it, a fervant ;
are
fer« and to minilter, fervile and mioifterial,

'

S/jaiff.

cate to Heaven.

Er, n fyllable in the middle of names or
places, comes by contraftion from the

.

e. Of the fame import or meaning.
The ufc of the word miniftcr is brought down to

., . ^
Sbtlfjp.

Nothing is Jafting that is feigned :

Ben ym/ny
another face than ifftad erelong.
Tliey fwim in joy,
JTr^/oijf tofwimat'large, aodlaugli, for which
The world erelone
* a world of tears aiuft weep.
^^lltM.

Here's an equhxator, that tould fwear in both

Honker.

lions.
Thefe fentenc* to fugaf, or to gall,
Bting llrong on both fiJes, are rjuivccM.

his back, and following the itag, erelong (lew hitn.
apcn/ei on Ireland^

who ufes iiKntal refervation.

the cifier

Ofdoubtfulfignificatlon; meaning

Sidney

The wild "horfe having enmity with the ftaj,
to a man todefire aid. who mounted upon

S.hak^furtU Machtlh. ' came
;

The confiJsration of publicic utility is, by very goo.1

terms f7»r-i,j/,«.

only gotten pity but

pardon.

E^uivoca'tor. n, /^ (from ejutvecaU.]
One who ufes ambiguous language -one

Of the ^arae cogency or weight.
kiad ol necellity.

fniong he l»ad not

.colours,

To doubt the c^aivttdtlhn of the fiend

EijuivjUnt to angels, walk'd their ftrtets,
MiiroJtS Agomps.
Njne oftering fight.

•dvice, judged at th: lealt the equivalent to

The anger already began to paint revenge in inanf

Hooti.r,

pull in lelelution and begin

1

«, Equal in force or power.
The dread of Ifrael's foe«, who, wi* a ftrength

I.

put.

Reproof is eafily mifapplted, and, through t^uiiKcatioit wrefted.

thus, though importune oerhaps, to come
And gaze, and wohliip thee. MUian'i PtraJiJ^ Loft.

EooiTOCAL. <2<//.

I

Ambiguity of fpeech; .double meaning.

which compeli'd

Dryden.

£*E'Lo>iG ad-v. from errand /a»f.] Before
a lon^<irac'haa el^fcd. Nee Imgum tern-

Equi'vocation- a./. [e<iuii:ocatio,'\-At\n.\

No fair to thine

Etyri'vALENT. »./

Our fruitful Nile
Flow'd era the wonted feafon.

Smith.

i, Fqusl in any excellence.

a.

Ere. fref. Before.

yet your falfe equivxaling tongtie.

Your looks, yourcycs, your every motion promisM
But you arc ripe in frauds, and karn'd in falihoods.

(hire,

In eijual balance laid with earth and hell,
proportion.
Flings up the adverfe (i.ale, and ihuns

E'lfivAltitt, or ftcond !

And Arcami to murmur, ere I ceafe to lore.

My foul difdain'd a promi'.'e ;—

Well nigh ejklvMfni, and mighb'riag »ilue,

By lot re parted i

'in E
The ttHnis to breathe, the wavmgwflodi lo RMV,

i)i_yi.».

Ko* »ti5j lefuiti can t^'ifieate.

;

to exalt.

who am a party, am not to rrefi myfelf into a

D'yitn'i Fahles, Preface.
that would
:
Locke,
be toerefl myfelf into an apoltlc.
fame
upon
him,
fall
alter
All the little fcnmblers
and have tecourfc to their own invention, rather
th.in fuffer him to ertfl himfelf into an author with
AJJifon,
impunity.

judge.
I

am far from.pretendlng infallibility

To raife confequence& from premifes.

6.

From fallacious foundations and mifapprchendeJ
mediums, men erefi conduCons no way inferrible
Brcwn' s Vulgar Errours,
from the ptemiles.

Men being too hafty to ereS to themfelves general
notions and illgrounded theories, find thcmfeivca
I^cke.
deceived in their flock of knowledge.
Malcbranche ereelt this propofition, of feeing all
things in Cod, upon their ruin.

7.

Locke,

To animate; mot todeptefsj to encou"S^
Wh,

ERG

ERR

Why ftiouldnof hope

lating to difpute ;

7i Ere'ct. v. n. To .ife upright.
againft rain fwelieth

in

the

Eb6E. «. /- [eapj, Saxon.] Idle; lazy;
flothful.
An- old word whence we bow
lay irl/ome.

not leaning ; not prone.

;

E'rmelin.. »./.
melin. French.

[dimiwiti've of rrmin

Decay of Piety,

E'rrand. n.f. [aepenh, Saxon; arend, Da-

E'RMINE.. ».y: [hermixe, French, from ar-

ni(h.]
raeifage ; fomething to be fold
or done by a meffenger ; a mandate ; »
commiflion. It is generally ufed now
only in familiar language.
Servants being commanded to go, fhall ftand ftilln

meniui, Latin.]

which ver)' nearly refembles a vveaand
the tip of the tail black, and fumifhing
a valuable fur. The fellmonger, and furrisrs put upon it little bits of Lomhardy
lamblkin, which is noted for its fhinirig

fele

GlamjWt.

not deprefled.
which

in prayer is very necelTary,- is walUd or dulled,

Booker.

in (hape ; having a white pile,

raifed upward.-

nefs of a wcafel,. called

We arc to confider only the freQioft of the hills
above the ordinary land. Brerrwocti ok Langua^et,

found in Armenia.

The firfl thing which moveth them thus to caft
Honker.

Pillars were fet up above one thoufand four hundred and twenty-fit year: before the flood, countmg
Seth to be an hundred )cars old at the erenion ol
Ralti^h's HiJInj.
them.

3. Eftablilhment ; fettlement.
It mull needs have a peculiar influence upon the
ereHion, coutiswance, and diflblutiou ol every foct^ty.
Soyli.

Pi5^<%

Erne. } Do immediately flow from

the

Saxon epp, eafin, a cott;ige, or
Gihfotit Camden.
pLlce of retirement.

E'aoK.

J

To can-

To ERO'DE.i'. a. [«Wfl, Latin.]
kef , to eat aw.iv ; to corrode.

4. Elevation j. exaltation of fentiments.
Her pecrkl's height my mind to high eriffion
Sidvty.

I'he blood, being too Iharp or thin,, eroda the

Aft of roufing;. excitement to attention.
Starting

is

an

ap| rehenlion of ihe thing feared,

and io that is a flirinking, and likewife an inquiand in th.it ii is 4
motion of erefficfi ; fo that when ivman would (itten

fition what the matter S\.Oh\A be 1

fuddenly he llarteth ; for the fUrtjog is an en3ic»
of the fpirits to attend.
hac^m.

:

E'REMITE. tf./. \enmita, Latin; i'jiu^.]
One who lives in a wildernefs ; one who

veflel.

Wilfon'f Parajife Lejt^

1

Bear his fwift errands over moift and dry.
O'er fea and land.
Milton's ParadiJeLoJI,
Well thou do'rt to hide from conunon fight
Thy dole intrigueSy too bad to be.ir the light;
^ot d»ubt I,. but the filver-footcj dame,
Tripping tram lca,.oi: fiich an etrand came.
Dryd.
Ersa'nt. adj.^ [errani, Latin ; errant,
.

French.

Wanderino ; roving ; rambling.

1.

Parti-

to an tjrder of knights

cularly applied

much celebrated in roma;ices> who roved
about the world in fearch of adventures.
It was thought that there are jull fcvcn planets,.
or errant ft.irs, in the lower orbs of Iteaven; but it
is now demonlVablc unto lenle, that there urc many

Broxun^i Vulgar Errours*
more.
Chief of domeftick k-nights and erran.',

Latin.t

Uudi/tras,

Eiliicr for chattel or for warrant.

Vile abantioned ;. completely bad.-

2.

See

Thy company, if I ilept notvcry well*
A-nights,- would make me an errant' fool wittl»

To mifs- the right way

;

^ueltions;

.

Ben jfohn/oM's-Cutaline*-

Deviating from a certain courfc.

3.

'

K nots, by' the conflux of meeting fap,

A ftotm of Itroke'!, well meant, with fiir^ flies,
and <iri about their temples, ears, and evcji
Orvje/i'i yirg.
The rains arife, and fires their -warmth difpcnfe ;
And fa'i and triin^.Staii dilfofc their intliicn.ce.
UrjJ, P'iig.
2.

Good impertinence

ArbMbna.

fea-fcvirvy.

TaERR. f.m [frro, Latin.]
1. To wander; to ramble.

Inleft 'the found pine, and divert his nrain,
FoitivC and etratit, from his court'c of gnnvrb.
•'

'

f~

•','UiiikiJ'feart^

E'RRAKTiry., m~f, [frpin H-rttuti]' .1

An crpant ftate

1

;

the condition 'of a wan-

dercr«

to dray.

/

After a (hort fpace of &ran!yy upoi^thc feaj. he
Addi/on'$ J-'reei'tldtr,^
got fafe back to Dunkirk

Wc have tnid and llia)cd like lotk ihccp.

.

Ci.inmi.n Prayi!

Keli3.

The way, thou leading.
To deviate from any purpofr.
B'jt (-•-rt not

1 he employment of a knight erranN

2.

not lag behind nor err

I will

.V/.-Avv.

nature from ihi^ £r.icioi:i cni^

The faults of
[Latin. J
the printer inferted in the beginning or

ERRa'TA. >t. f.

end iif the book.

From buniing funs when iivi.l dejtlis UeUend. y.iyc.
Eufpta'tion, v./. [irtftit, Latiiuj A A, To commit errours ; to miltakc.
It ij a jijtfgment maim'd mi moll imptrlcfl,.
creeping forth..
Bail..
That will coiiicls petttdtiou fo could err,.
Erj-.'ition. »./. [erf///>, Latin.]
Siillingffeei.

AfaatcK-

ing or taking away by force.
E'rcot. »./. A fort of ilub, like a piece
of foft horn, about the bignefsof a chefnut, which is placed behind and below
the paftcrn joint, and is commonly hid
under th« tuft uf Uk fetlock. i'arr^Dui.

I

As fea-faU is a (harp folid body, in a conftant diet
of fait me.it, It breaks the vclleis, producctb rrcJhnt of the folid paiti,-and all the fymptoms ol the

giotilly folitary ;

tiul and cenobiiical.

.

%a

Arrant.

Mlltot.

leading the life of an
hermit.
They have mulliliBles lA, religious orders, tremt-

have an errand to thee,
Kings.

corrofion.

Ruitigh^i Uifiury.

[from<'r?OT//<'.'|

I

His eyes,

1.

Antoriius, the rrrvriir, lindeih a fifth commodity

Kb emi'tical. «<^'.

[ft-ofu,

The aft of eating away.
2. The ftate of being eaten. away; caskert

Shakef^eare.

Thai run thro' all heav'ns, or -down to th' earth,

ktyem.

^

Erosion, u. /.

WC now fay hermit.
Embryoes and idiots, eremite* and friars.
White, black, and gKy, with all their trumpery.

Krora them

ER'^CA'Tit5N. It./, [emgnria; Latin. 1 Ihe
aft of giving or beuowing ; diliribution.

lives in folitudc ;. an hermit ;. a iolitaiy :

not inferior to any of thefe four.

captain.

I

'

This uncouth fr™;f</fole.

It haih

Ere'ctness.

n.f. ffr^m e»wS.] Uprightnefs of pofture or form.
We take ereantfi ftriflly as Calen defined il
they, only faycth he, have an ere^ tigure,. whole
ff ine and tbigjtbaoe arc carried on right linesi
Bravm'i Vulgar Brreun.

were tilting, and he faid,

Dryd,

Arcadia's couatefs, here in wmm'^.pride.
Is there Paftora by a fountain fide.

'

When he came,. behold the captains of the holl

Clothed

[from ermiat.^

been anciently received, that tWfea-air
hath antipathy with the lungs, if it comclh near the
Bacvn'i t^al. Hiji.
body, anitccjV/i them.

draws up.

!

con:?s of errttnd! does flie ?

Futchum on Blaxoxirg

with ermine.

ufual at the

«rffl/«» of churches.

Hcokcr,

—

A lady's honour mud be touch'd;
E'rmined. adj.

they have their errand •warranted unto them

But haft thou done thy errand to B-iptifta ?
I told him that yojr Utl.er was in Venice. Sljairf.
A (]uean have 1 not forbid her roy houfe ? She

Mus Armenius ; for they are

Which, nice as ermines^ will not bear a foil.

The id of bui.'.-iing or raifing edifices.

'till

black colour, the better to fet off the
Trfi-oiiic.
whitenefs of the ermine.
Emi/te is the fur of a little beaft, about the big-

£RE'citoif. n.f. [itova.frtS ."]
1.. 'I'he Z&. of raifing, or fiate of being

5.

A

An animal in cold coun-

tries,

Let no vain fear thy gtn'rous ardour tame.
But lland trcct, and found as loud as fame,

up their poifon,. are certain folemnities

the reafonablcncfs of compalTion to the feduced.

Sithiey.

confident ; unfhaken.
J, Bold ;

firft

ar-

•,

An ermine. See Ermine.

Pafling the hate fpot ernullni.

Pbilift.

2-

\hoxti errahle.'\ Llablenefs to error; liablenefs to miflake.
We may infer from the errahlenefs of our naturC)

Chauttr.

Silver (kins,

t, Direfted upwards.
Vain were vows».
And plainti and fuppliant hands, to Heav'n ert£l.

That vigilant and trt£i attention of mind j

Cbeynu

E'rrableness. ».y;

But oft fithes haunt that werkc.

Broturt^
prone in volitation.
Bafil tells usr that thi feipent nreot treli like
Bri^vn.
nan.

err mote grofly.

E'rrable. a<//. [from#rr.] Liable to err;
liable to miftake.

For men therein would hem ddite ;And of that dede be not crke.

from proncnefs, arc almoft f^rtf?; advancing the head and bceatl in p(ogrclUan> onl)
Bird*,- far

4,. Vigorous ;.

containing contrtjver-

iies.

ftallc,

and fo ftandeth more upright ; for by wet, dalles do
Bacen's t^at, H'^,
tre£}, and leaves bow down.
Erec't. adj- [ere3us, Latin.]

U Upright

of tighf judgmcntt have too nuch eontriiiuttd ««
the breach.
Decay of fiit^^
The mufes' friend, unto himfelf fcvcre,
With filent pity looks on all that trr.
Waller;
He who from the refieftcd image of the fun in
water would conclude of light and heat, could not

Eri'nco. n,f. Sea-hoUy.
E»i'»TicAt, aJj. [iffi«.] Controverfial; re-

A< much exil our thoughts, as fear iejift them ?

The trefoil

ERR
A plant

jU r.ile^ ol natuic.

Ag-iitill

Ki

.li/

Shakffpt.ire'i dtbilL.

ilicy not err thatdevifc evil > i'mi. xiv.

2a.

Pollibly tlte man mdV err iu his judgment of cir-

tuniltance-, ai.d tliculo e let linn tear;, but becaule
it i> ii~t

utlaiJt be i> milUken, ><:t him not dcfpair.

^UtyUt* i RuUuf lii.ing huly.
only been the heat 01 ini/.g perl'on^
Utal l>i»< ifcsn (Mm miiihicT<>u^, l>41Miini'.;j|^ti tnrn

Not

lia^ it

It

he meet with faiilo:, befiJci iliofc that the er-

rau take notice of, he will coniidcr tiie wcakiiels
oi

the author's eyes.

Boyle.

Krra'tick. edj. [erraticits, Latin.]
I. Wandering; uncertain; keening no certain orde;
holding no cflabliflicd courfc.
;

'Ihc earth, and each erraiick v.otlJ,
Around the fun their proper centre whirl'd,
Compofe but one extended vail machine. Blartmofe^
Tliroui;h the va(k waves the dlMdluI wonders move,
P»/ r'j OdyJTey.
1 lcnc« Iiam'i fratici,

%r Jrre^uUr).

.

ESC

ERU

ERR

cowrfe.
Bk Irregular ; changeable.
[3. Roving exeurfion ; irregular
Whit brought you living to t}ie Si) ;ian ftate
•
They are incommoded witli a flimy miMery (»u|Ilr,
Harv^
Driv'n by the winds and ermurt of the fea.
ftiiik of 'breath, and an erratick fever.
Or did you Heav'n's fuperiour doom obey ? Drj/J<n.
Ekka'ticallt. ad'v. [from erralkal or erSin.
jL.
[In theology.]
raiicL] Without rule ; withont any cftaBlood he oUTered for himfelf, and for the errotin
bli(hed method or order,
//<•*. ix. 7.
of the people.

Agues dfpend upon a corrupt incineflW inebii>
choly, or upon an aduftftibial or e raj/««« fulph'ur.

Hjiyey,

•

They come not forth in generationt trraiUsl/y,

.

•r dltrcrcnt from each other { but in fpecifical and

_

[Inlaw, more ef}>ecially in. our common

5,

procefs; and the writ, which is brought
for remcdj- of this ovcrfight, is called a

writ of errour, which lies to redrefs falfe
judgment given in any court of record,

We fee faje or betony brulfcd, focezine power,

'"

and other powders or liquors, which the pn>ticians
call rriirtes, put into the nofe to driW phlegm Irom

•

:

Bacar..

die head.

Ekroneous. adj. [from «r», Latin.]
Wandering;

1.

Cowel.

Ers, or Bluer Vetch, n.f. ['vicia valde amara.^

unfcttled.

TTicy roam
Erroaeoui and ditconfoUte, themfelves
Acculing, and their chief improvident
PhUlpt.
Of military chance.
This circle, by being placed here, flopped much
of the tmnnut light, vttuch otherwife would have
l^cutM.
difturbed the vifion.
Unblam'd abundance crowrt'd the royal bo-iid,
prndent
lord
her
What time this done rever'd
;
Who now, fo heav'n decrees, is doom'd to mourn.
Pafr.
Bitter conftraiiit erroanut and forlorn.
Iftheveffels, mftead of breaking, yield, it fubjefts the perl'on to all the. incouvcnieiices of erroneout
circulation ; ihat is when the blood ftrjys into the

vcflcU delliaed to catry ferum or lymph.

Arbutbnol an Allmtnts.

3. Midaking; mifled by errour.
Thou art Tar from deftroying (he itmocent with
the guilty, and the trrontous with tiic malicious.

King Cbarlft.
the trtmceut as well as the rightly inThere
South.
formed coofcience.
is

Miftaken ;

4.
~

not conformable to truth ;

phyfically falfe.
Their whole counfcl is condemned, as havii^ either proceeded from the blindncfs of thofe limes, or
from negligence, or from dcfirc of honour and glory,
or from an erroneoui opinion that fuch things might

,

Sir knight, if knight thou be.

is

commonly received, contrary to all the true

Baiott.
Account of time and experience.
The phjenomena ol light have keen hitherto explained by luppoTing that they arife from new modijicationt of the rays, which is an erroneout fuppoli-

.

Nrxtfton*i Opticks.

tioil.

By

Erro'neotjslv. adv. [from erroHeous.]

The miads of men are erroneoftjly perfuaded, that
God to have tliole things dune w hich
H«)k.
they fanpy.
I could not difcover the lenity of this fentence
but conceived it, perhaps eriomoujly, father to be
Gulliver,
rigoroiu than gentle.

Ekro'neousness.

»./. [from ern>nmiis.~\
Phyfical falfchood ; inconformity to truth.
The pfasenomena may be eiplaincd by this hypo-

tiiefis,

whereof he demonftratcs llie truth, together
Beyle.

uiih the erro««(r/iif/>of ours.

t'RROUR. n./. [error, Latin.]
Miftakc;

1.

involuntary deviation from

truth.
Errour is a midake of our judgment giving affcnt
Ltcte.
to (hat which i^ not true.

Oh, hateful «r(«/r, mclancholv's child

The things (hut are not ?
2.

Shakefpearr.

A blunder; an aft or aflcrtion in which
a miftake is committed.

Will blefs it ?

Sfenfer.

SLikrJf care's Merihant ofVcHxce.

He look'd like nature's errour. a; the mind
i

A;id body were not of a piece dcfign'd.
But made fcjrtwo, and by miftakc iu otic were join'd.

Drydcn.

if but to pry, Ihall

Thilher,

be perhapa

For this infernal pit lliall never hold
Milton's Par. Lofi.
Such command we had.
To fee that none (hence iffu'd forth a fpy.

Or enemy, while God was in his work
Left he, incens'd at {wc\i rruflioti bold,

Defti^aion wilh creation might have mix'd. Milton,
Milton.

Of detradion from her praife.
when time was.
;

Violent exclamation.

4.

To his fecretary, whom he laid in a pallet near

Once

3.

As Cgnal now in low dejefled ftate
As erjl in highett, behold him. Milton's AgonlJIn.

him

for

natural ventilation

of his thougtiw,

lie

Gaj/.

would in the abfence of all other ears and eyes,
break out into bitter and palTionate eriifli.m.
H'olion's I.'fitJ'Buckingbim.

Frier.

It did not run out in voice or indecent ciuftloni
but filled the (bul, as God the univerfe, filcntW aid
Souldi,
without noife.
5. Efflorefcence ; puftyles.
Difeafed nature oftentimes breaks forth

Milton.
Dim?)/; dilated fpirits, ampler he.ut.
The Rhodians, who crjl thought themfelves at
great quiet, were now overtaken wilh a fuddcn mif-

Siakc/fearc's Henry IV,
In itrange er«/ir;o«.
An eruption of humours in any part, is not cured
merely by outward applications, but by alterative
C«'. rongue.'
medicines.

He Uught us erjl ihe heifer's tail to view,
Formerly ; long ago.
The future few or more, howc'er they be,

4.

Were deftin'd erjl, nor can'by fate's decree
Be now cut off.
5. Before ; till then ; till now.
Opener mine eyes.

Knillet.

chief.

Erube'sCKNCE. \ «. /, \ernhefcentia, LaErube'scency, J tin.] The ad of grow-

Unripe fruits are apt to pccafion foul eruptions om
Arbutbrot.

the ikin.

EtiVf'yivt. adj. [<>»//)«, Latin.] Burftiag

ing red ; rednefs.

Erubescent,

forth,

[emhefcem,

adj.

I-atin,]

When to the ftartlcd eye the fuddcn glance

nefs.

Appears far fouth eruptive through the cloud.

To ERU'CT. v. a. [erudo, Latin.] To
belch ; to break wind from the ftomach,

Eructa'tion, n.f.

[itota erua.'\

I.

The aft of belching.

z.

Belch

;

depraved, are erudalioxs, cither with the tafte of
Arbnthnot.
the aliment, acid, inodorous, or fetid.

Any fudden burft of wind or matter.
Thermx,

are. hot fprings or

fiery

cruaalions;

fuch as burrt forth of the eartli during earihijuakes.
if'ooJ^vaVj.

Erudi'tion, n.f. \erudUio, Latin.] Learning ;

knowledge obtained by ftudy and

inftruftion.
Fam'd by ihy tutor, and thy parts of nature ;
Sliitkrff.
Tlirice fam'd beyond all rruditiin.
The earl was of a good erudition, having been
H'otton.
young.
placed at ftudy in Cambridge very
To your experience in ftate affairs you have alfo
joined no vulgar erudition, which all your modcfty
is

not able to conceal ;

for
is

to undcrrtan>l

critically

a height to which few ol

DryJen.
our noblemrn have arrived.
Some gentlemen abounding in their univcrflty eruterms.
philofophical
dition, iXi their fermons wilh
X^'ift.

per.
Copperas is a rough and acrimonious kind of
drawn out of ferreous and eruginous earths,
partaking chiefly of iron and copper i the blue of
Brav/ne.
copper, the greto of iron,
fait

,

"

Ttomp/on,

Ery'ngo. »./.

A plant.

[eiyugion.]

Ervsi'i-elas, «,/. [ifi^.ViA«<.]
eryfepelas is generated by a hot ferum in the
blood, and alfi:as the fuperficies of the Ikin wilh
a (hining pale red, and citron colour, without pulfation or circumfcribei tumour, ff reading from one
H- ifeman' s Surgery.
place to another.

An

the matter vented from the fto-

mach.
The figns of the funOions of the ftoi.iach being

3.

'Tis liftening fear, and dumb amaiement all.

Reddifh; fomewhat red; inclining to red-

taking of the fubftancc and nature of cop-

What damned errour, but Tome fober brow

Sudden exeurfion of an hoftilc kind,

3.

Celeftial fpirits in bondage.

Eru'cinous, <j</r. [*r»g;'ffo/Kf, Latin,] Par-

In religion.

felf out fuddenly.
lions of flames out
1 n part of Media there are eruf
Bacon's Natural llifiory^
of plains.
Upon a fignal given the eiufitwn began ; fircand
fmoak, mired wilh feveril unufual prodipi»s and figures, made their appear.ince. Addifon's Guardian,

We may juftly now accufe

the delicacies of Horace,

!

Why doft thou (hew to the apt (houghts of men.

Burft ; emiffion ; fomething forcing it-

2.

Fame that her high worth to taife,

miftake ; not rightly.
it is the will of

and give way to their dilatation and eruftioti.
Burnet's Ipeoiy.

Seem'd erjl fo lavilh and profufe.

A wonderful erronrous obfervation that walketh
about,

it yield

Our hrft fr»/>r/"!!«, thither or clfewbere;

Abandon this foreftalled place at er^.
For fear of further harm, I counfcl ihee.
2. At firft ; in the beginning.

Hooter.

ibe lor a while.

Finding themfelves pent in by the eiterior earth,
they prelTcd with violence againft that arch, to make

Firil.

1.

!

2. Irregular; wandering from the right road.

A plant.

Erst. ad'v. \etft, German ; aepj-ra, Saxon.]

\erupth, Latin.

The aft of breaking or burftmg forth
from any confinement.

1.

An errour in pleadine, or in the

law]

Brown.
Err'hime. «./. [jpfiue.] Snufied up the
nofe; occafioning fneezing.
tegular Ihapcs.

Erup'tion, »,/,

ESCALA'DE. n.f.

The aft of

[French.]

fcaling the walls of a fortification.
In Geneva one meets with the ladders, petard,
and other utenfiU, which were made ufe of ''"h'ir
Addifon,
famous efealade.

Esca'lop. n.f,
1. A (hellfiflt, whofe Ihell

.

is

regularly in-

dented.

The (hells of thofe cockles, cfcalops and pen
were ei lofcd
winkles, which have greater gravity,
li\ydiuarj.
in ftune.

2.

An inequality of margin

;

indenture.

The figure of the leaves is divided into jags anJ
edgei,
efcahps, curioufly indented round the

ESCAPADE,

n.f.

[French.]

Ray,

Irregular

motion of a horfc
He with a graceful pride,
While his rider every hand furvey'd.
Sprung loofe, and flew into an efcapade;
Not moving forward, yet wilh every boonil
Prelling, and feeniing ftill to ijuit his ground.

O'^J,

To ESCA'PE. 1: a. [ecbaprr, French-]
to obtain
I. To obtain exemption from ;
from ; to fly; to avoid.
we cannot efcafe the purfuit of paiTieris,

fecurity
Since

and i>etplciity of thoughts, there is no

way IcU bn

ESC
to eoJe«vaur all

we can either to Tubdue or divert

them.

•Temple.

Had David died fooaer. bow much trouble had
bellion of his fon?

;

Escha'rotick. n.f. A cauftick applica-

fVake.

Z. To pafs unobferved by one.

Men

tion.

blinded

with

ignorance

An efchar was made by the catharetick, which we

and errout:

'

thtull oft, and continued in the ufe o( efchurolick^.

be deceived.

Hooter.
"Tis Hill the fame, although their airy Ihape
All but a quick poetick fighir/i-j^f.
Daibam.
The reader Snds out thofc beauties of propriety
in thought and writing, which efcafed him in the
tumult and hurry of reprefenting.
Dryden.

To Esca'pe. 'V. n. To

fly;

IFifeman^s Surgery.
Sfciaroticks applied of alh-alhes, or blifteriug
flatter.

I

Cbroniclts

They efcafed all fafe to land.
Efcafe for thy life;

Aett, xxvii. 44.
look not behind thee, neither

heir general or efpccial.
E/cf'cat is alfo
ufed fometimes for the place in which the
king, or other lord, has efcheats of his

Thirdly, e/cfxat

Ray thou in all the plain: efafe to the mountain,

tetiants.

lelt thou be confumed.

writ, which lies where the tenant, having

Gtiufis.

Whofo pleafcth God (hall efcafe from her,

but
Ecci. yii. i6.

the finner (hall be taken by her.
He mijht put on a hat, a muffler, and a kerchief,

and fo efcafe.

Shakeff. Mary tUvet of H'indfar.

To convince us that there v.as no way torfcafe by
climbing up to the mountains, he afl'urcs us that the
higbell were all covered.
IVoudivard,
Laws are not executed, meo of virtue are difgraced,
lVaui<i LogUk.

aad murderers 5/ca/f.

Esc'ape. »./. [from the verb.]
I. Flight; the adl of getting out of danger.
would haften my efcafe from ihe windy (torm
and tem^ft.
Pfalms, Iv. 7.
I

He enjeyed neither his efcafe nor his honour long

for he was hewn in pieces.

Hayviard.

Men of virtue have had extraordinary efcafei out
of fuch dangers as have endofcd them, and which
have feemcd inevitable.
Add'ifan.

Z. Excurfion; fally.

We made an efcafe, not fo much to feek our own,
as to be iortruments of your fafety.

Denham.

[^nlaw.] Violent or privy evafion out
of fome lawful reftraint. For example,

,

is

ufed for a

eftate of fee-fimple in any lands or tene-

ments holdcn of a fupcriour lord, dies
feifed, without heir general or e(pecial.
Cowel.

,

If the king's ordinary courts of jufticedo notjiro-

te^ the people, if he have-no certain revenue or efcheats, 1 cannot fay that fuch a country is conquered.

David on Ireland.
To Esche'at. v. a. [from the noun.] To
fall to the lord oi the manor by forfeiture,
or for want of heirs.
In the lall general wars there, I knew many good
freeholders executed

by mattial law, whofc lands
were thereby faved to their heirs which Ihould have
othetwife efcheated to her majelW.
Sfe/tfr'r OH Ireland.
He would forbear to alienate any of the forfeited
efcheated lands in Ireland, which (hould accrue to
the crown by reafon of this rebellion.
Clarendon.

Eschea'tor.
officer

that

n.f. [from

efd-eat.]

An

obferves.the efcheats of the

king in the county whereof he is efcheator, and certifies them into the exchequer.

if the fheriff. upon a capias direfted unto
him, takes a peribn and endeavours to
Ctnuel,
carry him to gaol, and he in the way,
At a Bartholomew fair at I/mdoni an efcheator of
either by violence or by flight, breaks
the city arreted a clothier, and feifed his goods.
from him, this is called an efcafe. Cowel.
Camdem's Remains^
4. Excufe; fubterfugc; evafion.
To Esch'ew. 1: a. [efheotr, old French.]
.

'

Paul himfclf did not defpife to remember
whatfoever he found agreeable to the word of God
St.

-

among the heathens, that he might take from them
all efcafe by way of ignorance.
Rji/e!gb.

5. Sally; flight; irregularity.
T houfand 'fcafer of wit.

Make thee the father ot their idle dreams,
And rack thee in their fanciet.
J^ooCe

Siakif.

fcafet of love.

Milim.

6. Overfight; miftake.
In tranfcribing there viould be lefs care taken, as
the language was kfs underilood, and fo the efcafei
lefs liibjeit 10 obfervation.

Brerrwead on Lunr.

To fly; to avoid; to (hun; to decline. A
word almoft obfolete.
She was like a young fawn, who (»ming !n the
wind of the hunters, doth not know whether it bo a
thing or no tobc r/cArtwi/.
Sidney.
So let us, which this change of weather view,
Change eke our minds, and former lives amend.

The old year's (ins forepart let us cfhevi.
And fly the faults with which ive did offend. Sfetif.
He who obeys, deftrutlion (llall efche-w;
A wife man knows both when and what to do. San.
Of virtue and vice, men are univerfally to priflife
the one, and efcberv the other.

ESCA'RGATOIkE.n.f. [French.] A nur- Eschu'tcheon.
fcry of fnails.
At the Capuchins I fjw rfcargatoires, which I
look the more notice of, becaufe fdo not rcmemfcr
to have met with any tiling of the fame
kind in
other countries. Jt is a fqmre place boardtd
in,
and filled with a vaft quantiiy of large foa.ls that
are efteemed

excellent food,

when they are

drefled.

well

AddlTon

laCALOfT. n.f. [French.]

Pronounced

fhallot.

Efrhahix are now from France becrme an
•plani,

Englilh

managed after the fame manner as garlick

only they arc to He fet earlier, and taken
up as foon
as the leaves begin to wither, left the
Winter kills

Mortimer-, Hufhandry.

r "'/1^"?V . r.
fc.SCHAR.
n.f. [/«rx«f«.]
A hard crull
or fear made by hot applications.
When ilfues are made, or bones expofcd, the
tfchjr (hould be cut out immtdiaiely.
Shit<f, Hue.
Vai..J.

'

What, are they children { Who maintains them ?

F/oyt-r.

lord within his manor by forfeiture, or
the death of his tenant, dying without

to get out of

Benhadad, the king of Syria, efcafed oa horfe.

3.

,

How are they efcondf
Shakcffeare's Ihmlct.
ESCHE'AT. »./. [from the French ^c/Wr.]
Any lands, or other profits, that fall to a Esco'ut. n.f. [^off/^r, French.] Lifteners

danger; to avoid puni(hment or harm.

.

[French.]
A tax paid ia
boroughs and corporations towards the
fupporf of the community, which is called
feat and lot.
To Esco't. rv, a. [from the noun.] To
pay a man's reckoning; to fupport.

ESCOT. n. f.
;

are

many tilings may e/cajie them, in many they may

.

ESP
To Esco'rt. m. a. \efcorter, French.] To
convoy; to guard from place to place.

theflefh.

he Reaped, which by li'- ig he endured in the rc'_

£ S C
Escha'roticic. W/. [from e/d-ar.] Cauftick
having the power to fear or bum

Atterhury.

/

».
The fliield of the
family; the pidure of the f»/?^«/ armorial.

Efchutcheon is a Frencli word, from the
\.M\x\fcutu7n, leather;

and hence cometh

our Englifh word buckler, lepe in the old
Sa»{on fignifying leather,

bock

a

and buck or
buck or flag; of whofe (kiiis,

quilted clofe together with horn or liird
wood, the antient Britons made their
fhieldj;

Peacham.

There be now, for martial encouragement, fome
dc;recs and orders of chiv.ilry and fome temcmbjance
pcihapi upon the tfchulcbro*.

Bacon.

We will pafs over Che efchutckeom a( the ttiliej of
Ifrael,

as

Canaiii.

tliey are ufually defctibed ia

the maps of

Broinn.

Esco'rt. n. f. \efcoii, French.] Convoy;
guard from pl^pe to placf

or fpies ; perfons
isowfccut.

fent for intelligence.

They were well entrenched,

having good rfctut

and fure watch within.

I/ayward.

.ibroad,

ESCRPTUIR. n.f [French.] A box with
the implements neceflary for writing.
Pronounced yir/zoiy.
Escu'age. >t.
[from efiu, French, a
all

:

f

Ihield.]
Efctiage, that is, fcrvice of the (hield, is either
uncertain or certain.
i}'fM^f uncertain is likcwife
twofold: firil, where the tenant by his tenure is

bound

to follow his loid, going in perfon to tlie
king's wars fo ma.iy days.
The days of fuch fer-

vice feem to have been rated by the quantity of the
land fo holden
as, if it extend to a whole knight's
fee, then the tenant was bound thus to follow his"
lord forty days.
knight's fee was fo much land
as, in thofe days, was accounted a fufficient living
for a knight; and that was fix hundred and eighty
acres as fome think, or eight hundred as others, or
:

A

Sir Thomas Smith faith, that
Ij/. fer annum.
cenfus cfurfiris is 40/. revenue in free lands.
If
the land extend but to half a ksight's fee, then
the tenant is bound to follow his lord but twenty
days.
The other kind of i.\\\% efcuage uncertain is

.

Caltleward, where the tenant is bound t*
defend a cadle.
Efcuage certain is where the tenant
called

is fet

at a certain fum o( money to be paid in lieu of

fuch uncertain ferviccs.

E'sculentI <7i//.
for food ;

Coivel,

[^a/ewteir, Latin.]

Good

eatable.

knew a man that would faft five days ; but tlie
fame man ufed to have continually a great wifp of
I

herbs that he fmellcd on, and fome efculent herbs
of ftrong fcent, as garlick.
Hacon.

Es'coLEvr. n.f. Something fit for food.
This cutting oft' the leaves in plants, where the
is the efculent, as radilh and parfnips, it will

root

makethe root the greater, and fo it will do to the
heads of onioiu ; and where the fruit is the efculent,
by llrengthening the root, it will make the Iruit alio
the greater.

liaeon's Natural Hifloiy.

EspA'LirR.

». /.

Trees planted and cut fo

as to join.
Plant your faireft tulips in places of flielter, an*
under effaliers.
Eiielyn'x Kalexder.
Behold Vilbrio'j ten years toil complete.
His arbours darken, his iffalicrs meet.
Pofe.

Espa'rcet,

n. f.

\^medica,

or trifolium,

A kind of faint-foin. A plant.

Latin.]

Mortimer.

ESPE'CIAL.

adj.

[^W,/, Latin.] Prin-

cipal ; chief.
They had tli' effedal tTi%mct been, to rear.
His fortunes up.
Daniel's Ci-vil Ifar,

Espe'ciai.ly. ad-v. [from rffedaL] Principally ; chiefly ; particularly ; in an uncommon degree above any other,
I fomewhat marvel, lli.n they
effecially (hoii!i
think it abfurd to oppofc church Roicniment,
a phm
matter of adiior., unto matter 01 taiih, who know

that thcmfdves divide the gofpel into
doflrine

and

Would you proceed effecially againft Caius Mjf.
Shakeffrare.
,
This dehght children take in doing of mifchief.
but more effecially the pleafure ilicy take to put
any
thing to pain that is capable of it, 1 cannot pcrfuad'e
myfelt to be any nihcr than a foreign and introduced

""i.;.

,

difpofuuMi.

4

1

l^ckf.
PAjvidcoce

'

"IVwidence hath planted in all mftianatural defire
and curioliiy of knowing things to romc anJ luch
;

To EspV. v. a, {ejpier, French.]

fliat of

Few there are of fo weak capacity but publick

Burnef.

evils they eafily 'ffyi fewer fo patient as not to
complain, nhcn the grievous Inconveniencies thereof
Hooker.
work feniible fniart.

or the general late of mankind.

ufed.

To be word,
The loweft, nioft dejefled things of fortune.

To difcover a thing intended to be hid.

2.

An efptranct fo obDiiiately ftrong,
That doth invert th' attell of eyes and ears. Shahf.

ISPI'AL. n.J. [French,

A

Izova efper.]

fpy; afcout; one fent to bring intelligence. Not ufetl.
Thofe four garrifons, iffulng forth at fuch convenient times as they Ihali have intelligence, or
a/fial upon the enemjr, will drive him from one fide
Sfenfer on IrelmiJ.
to another.

being perceived was afliamed, now being hardly
rubbed upon, left both fi:ar and fliame, and was
Sidnty.
moved to anger.

Sbai'J^eare,
Ik

'Splals have inform'd me.

The Englith in the fuburbs clofe entrench'd,
Shake/. Hemy VI.
Went through a fecret grate.
to

look abroad for

{;racelul youths, to make Plantagenets.

Bacon's iJetiry Vll-

ESPLANA'BE.

In fortification, the fame with the glacis of the
but now it is
countcrfcarp originally
n. f.

[French. [
;

taken for the empty fpace between the
glacis of a citadel and the firllhoufes of
Harris,
the town.
Espousals, w. /. without a fmgular.
'

[fpotifalia,

Latin; ^o//f, French.]

The

aft of contrafting or affiancing a man
and woman to each other; the aft or

ceremony of betrothing.
Ufed
Espo'osAL. adj.

in

the

aft^ of

z.

«. /.

the king in any worfhipful calling, as the fcrjeant chirurgeon, ferjeant
of the ewry, mailer cook, &c. fuch as

by the king with a
collar of S. S. of filver, as the heralds and
The chief of fome anferjeants at arm.
families

with

a Sam.

To marry; to wed.

Lavinia will 1 make my empcrefs,
lnai in the facred Pantheon her efoufe.
Sbakifpcart's fit. Atidr.
With flowers, garlands, and fwcct fmelling herbs,
Milton.
JEffoiifed F.ve Jeck'd firft her nuptial bed.
They foon tfpous'd ; for they with cafe were joinM,
were before contradled in the mind, Dryden.
If her fire approves,
Pope.
1*1 him effoufc her to the peer fhe loves.

Who

What, are our Englifli dead?
^Sir Richard Ketley, Davy Gam, cfyuire. Shakef.
To ESSA'Y. -v. n. [ejfayer, French.]
To attempt ; to try ; to endeavour.
1
While I this unexampled talk 'JJay,
Pafa awful gulfs, and beat my painful way,
Blaclmore.
Celelhaldove, divine aflilbncc bring,
Noconqucft Ihe, but o'er herfelfdefir'd;

No
3.

In gratitude unto the duke of Brstagne for his
former favours, he f/J>o///ii^ that quarrel, and dccljr.^d
Bacon's Henry VII.
himfelf in aid of the duke.
5.

To maintain; to defend.
Their gods did not on'y interell themfelves in the

rules and

The city, array, court, e/fouje my caufe. Dryden.

Pope.

Aloofefallyof the mind

2.

Atteriu'y.

;

an irregular

indigefted piece; not a regular and orderly

compofition.

My r£ays, of all my other works have been raoft
cnrreiit.

Bacon.

Yet modeflly he does his work furvey,
And calls his Snifh'd poem an cjfjy. I'cem to Rofr.

StMairidge.

Tlic caufe of religion and goodncfs, which is the
caufe of Cod, is oui's by deiceiit) aud we .ire doubly

Locke,

The accent

Fruitlcls our hopes, though pious our effafs;
Yours to prcfcrve a friend, and mine to prait'c. Smith.

and then iccjc arguments either to make good their
Lacif,
beauty, or varnifh over tlwir deforinity.
The lighteoufncfs of the belt caulc may be overbalanced by the iniquities ol thole that effoufe ir.

methodsof effaying fuited to it Ihould re-

main unvariable.

Men effoufc the well-endowed opinions in faihion,

bcaad KoiJ^^uff it,

but not to be admir'd,

E'ssAY. n.f. [from the verb.
is ufed on either fyllable.]
1. Attempt; endeavour.

•vent of wars, but alfu efpoufed the Icveral parries in
Dtyden's ywv. Dedic.
a vifible corporeal defccnt.

3.

effetice ;

irt

Dieviet.
could with the nature of a fpirit were more un«
known to me than it is, that I might believe ill
I

exiftence, without meddling at all with its ejfence.

He wrote the nature of things upon their names
he could view«3(/tf««j in themfelves, and read forms
without the comment of dieir refpedlive properties.
South,

Formal exiftence ; that which makes aby

2,

thing to be wliat it is.

The vifible church of Jefus is one in outward
of thofe things, which fupernaturallyappcrtain to the very ej/ence of ChrilVianlty, and,

profeflion

are neceflfarily required in every particular Chriftian

man.
HAtker,
Exiftence ; the quality of being.

}.

In fuch cogitations have I (lood, with fuch a darknefs and'heavinefs of mind, that I might have been
perfuaded to have refigned my very ejfence,
Sidney,

Being; exillent perfon.

4.

As far as gods, and heav'niy ejeacrs
Can peri ill.
Milton's Paradife LoJI.
5..

Species of exiftent being.
Here be four of your as differing as the four elements and yet you are friends as for Eupolis, be--

Atrial; an experiment.
This ttealiic ^>rjd«i ilfdf in OP higher a title than

:

;

caufe he is temperate, and without patTion he may
be the tifth effence.
Bacon,

6. Conftituent fubflance.
For fpirits when thf y plfafe.

Can either fex afTume, or boih ; fo loft
And uncompoundcd is their ijfence pure ;
7.

Not ty'J or manacled wiih joiat or limb. MUfn.
The caufe of exiftence. This feofe isr-

not proper.
She is my ejfence; and I leave to be,
If I be not by her fair influence
Foller'd, illumin'd, cherilh'd, kept alive,

Sbakefi

8.

[In medicine,]
The chief propertiesor virtues of any fimple, or compofition.
collefted in a narrow compafs.

9.

Perfume; odour;

fcent.

Our humble province is to 'tend the fair;

To fave the powder from too rude a gaic.
Nor let th' imprifon'd ejf:nces exhale.

^"f.

To Essence, v, a, [from ^^^f^-.] Toperfume; to fcent.
The hulbind rails, from morning to night, at
ejfenced fops and tawdry courtiers.

The rtandard in our mint being now fcitled, the

To adopt; to take to himfelf.

4.

arts efl'ay'd,

To make experiment of,
To try the value and purity of metals.

2.

Winter has an

And to her effence each doth give a part.

afts

He bad received him as a fuppliant, protefied him
as a perfon fled jDr refine, and tffmfcd him "wUb
Bacon.
his kiniwoman.

a rofe in

One thinks the foul is air j another, firej

of parliament for poll- money, were
Bhunt.
ranked among efquires.

Or 'ui'itb.

3.

are likewife efquires by
thofe that bear any fupe-

titleofefquire during his life, in refpeft
of the great trull he kas had of the po£i
comitatus. He who is a juftice of the peace
has it during the time he is in commilfion,
and no longer. Utter barrifteis, in the

Deliver me my wife Michal^ which I effmfed to

3,

;

rior office in the commonwealth, as high
Iheriff of any county, who retains the

another

:

Another, blood ditfus'd about the heart;
Another faiih, the elements confpire.

are created efquires

to.

me.

no

Summer it has exiftence alfo. Watts' s Log.

ferve

To ESPO'USE.i;. a. [efpoufer, French.]
to

on a

baronets ; fo alfo of all knights of the
Bath, and knights batchelors, and their
heirs male in the right line; thofe that

prefcription

betroth

ox attendant

Dryden't Fall. Pref.

Eflence is but the very nature of any being, whether it be aftually exifting or

1.

heirs male for ever; the four efquires of
the king's body; the eldeft fons of all

The ambanador put his leg, l^ript naked to the
knee, between the efpoufal (heets ; that the ceremony might amount to a con&immation.
Bacon's HewyWl.
contraft or

See

A title of dignity, and next in degree
below a knight. Thofe to whom this
title is now of right due, arc all the
younger fons of noblemen, and their

cient

To

as an effay to the whole work.

Move's Divinf Dia/ogt/cti

The armour-bearer
knight.

efpoufing or betrothing.

J.

French.]

[f/ctier,

experiment.

E'SSENCE. tt. /. [cfentia, Latin.]

To

Squire.

firft

Tranilating the firii of Homer's Iliads, I intended

Mofes fent me to efpy out the land, and 1 brought
Jof. x'lv.j.
him word again.
watch; to look about.
To Espy', -v. tt.
Stand by the way and efpy ; aOc him that fieeth
^11-. xlvii. 19.
what is done?

Estyji'RE.

fecret r/fsa/s

4. Firft tafte of any thing ;

As one of them opened hi» fack, he effled his
Gen.
money.
4. To difcover as a fpy.

As he march'H along,

She had fome

Sbakefpeart,
Aepetitions wear us into a liking of what poflibly,
Locke*
in the firlt ejfay, difpleafed us.

To fee unexpeftedly.

3.

B7 your tffials were difcovered

Two mightier troops.

He wrote this but ai in ejfay, ortafte of my virtue.

He who before he was efpicd was afraid, after

Stands flill in tjferanci, lives not in fear.
Sbakijf care's Khig Lear.
Yet there is a credence in my heart,

an ejfay or ImperfeA attempt at t fubjeft.
Gtarrvilte,

To fee things at a diftance.

1

thing! rfptclally as concern our particular happinefs,

ESPERA'NCE. n.J. [French.] Hope. Nbt

\

ESS

ESS

ESP

Adjifoit's SpeS,

EbSE'NTIAL. adj. [ejfentialis, Latin.]
I.

Neceflary
iftence

to

the

conftitution

or

ex-

of any thing.

The difcipline of our church, although it be not
an eJfcniiaJ fitt of our religion, IhoulJ not be ralhly
altered, as the very fubflance of our rcnglon will be
interefted in it.
Bacov.
Frgm that original of doing good, that is ejfeiitial
to the infitjite being of our Creator, we have an exccllcnt copy tranfcribed,
Spratt,
This power cannot be innate and ejfential to matter; and it it be not ejfcKtiai^ it is cot^fcqiicnfly moft
manitclHt could never fupervene to it, unlefs imprelfcd and infuicd into it by aa immaterial and dtvinc power.
Bentle^..
A great miniftcr puts you a cafe, and alks your
ofiiiiun; but conceals ui r^rn/zW circuiDltance, up-

'

EST

EST

«n which the whole weight of the mitter turni.

The prince of Cumberland.
Shakef. Macbiih.
EsTA'^BLisHEa. a./, \itQTXi eftabli/h.l He

who e^abliftes.

cipal.
Judgment's amn tffenriai to a general.

Dmham'i Sophy.

ESTA BLTSHMENT.
1.

elemental parts contraded

The juice of the feed is an tjftntial oil or balm,

3. Settled

regulation; form;
government or family.

To nothing this rjfinlial.

Mihan't Parajife L-ifi.
or conftituent principles.

The chief point; that which is in any

5,

4.

refpeft of great importance.

Esje'ntially. aJf,

\fffentialiler,

Latin.]

By the conftitution of nature;

really;

Hath not effiniially, butbycircumftance.

Glaiii'ille.

Knowledge is that which, next to virtue, truly
and rjfentiaily raifet one man above another.
Addifon't Guardiiin,

Esso'i N E. ». /. [of the French ejjhnit, or
exmnii.\
I . He that has his prefence forborn or excufed upon any juft caufe; as iickncfs.
Z. Allegement of an excufe for him that is
furamoncd, or fought for, to appear and

3.

Excufe

The general intereft

It IS

;

He may eftablijii thee to-day for
I

Thanks to giddy chance.
3.

will tjiablijh

'"'^•B covenant.

my covenant with him for an everCm. xvii. i,.

4.

To fettle in any privilege or poflcflion

•f tJie lords and commons.

To make firm

m.y make It void.
I o hx or fettle in an
opinion.

Numi.r,.

So were the churches f/aWy/.frf

in th, fai,h.

To form or modeL
He appointed in what manner his family Oiould

loJoand;

b.

moveably,

to

A

be

build firmly; to fix imfenfe not in ufe.

For he hith founded it upon the ftas, and
td It upon ih« floods,

efiabtiJI,.

pj, )uuy, j,_

I

A pound of man's flelh, taken from a man.
Is not fo ejiimable or protitable

of honour and refpeft.

A lady faid of her two companions, that one w»s
more amiable, the other more ejiimalile.
Vou loft one, who gave hopes of being, in time,
every thing that was ejiimable and good.
Tenitle.

E'sTiMABLENESS.

1.

Lev. xxvii. 14.
and not the i»me of
the piece, that men efiimatc commodities and exchange them,
l,xke.

6.

2.

Computation

1

kljukcjj/eari': T^m^ejl ,

efiimale and calculation of t!ie

Mofes.

H'otidvard

Value.

2.

And fomc donation fieely to ejlale

calculation.

quantity of water nojv adually contained in
l\\f
abjfs 1 found that this alone w.t. full enonpli tn
cover the whole globe to the hci|;ht afligncd by

To

Oa Uie blca l9vct..

;

Upon a moderate

Why hatli ihy (jneen
true love to celebrate.

To calculate; to compute.

E'sTiMATE. «./. [from the verb.]

_

— A contraa of

To rate; toadjult the value of; to judge
of any thing by its proportloil., to fome-

It is by the weight 0' filver,

Sidney.

Stimmon'd me hirher *

cftJmaile.']

When a man (hall fanftify his houfe to the Lord,
then the pricft (hall (Jlimate it whether it be good of
bad: as the pricft (hall rJliMate it, fo (hall it (land.

excelled with that fwect uniting of all
beauties.
/>

[itom

thing elfe.

Dryd. Per/.

This fenfe is
difufed.
She is a dutchefs, a great rjlale.
Latimer.
Herod, on his birth-day, maje a fupper to his
lords,
high captains, and chief rjlatei of Gililce.
Murk,i\. 21.
„
/ohsTATE. v. a. [from the noun.J
fettle as a fortune.

n. /.

The quality of dcferving regard.
To E'STIMATE. -v. a. [efjiimo, Latin.]

Rank; quality.
Who hath not heard of the greatnefs of your
tfiatef
Who feeth not that your ejaie is much

/AA perfon of high rank.

Valuable; *orth a large price.

As flelh of muttons, beefs, or goats. Shi>kefpeare.
2, Worthy of efteem; worthyof feme degree

5.

S-wif'i

_

5.

See what a vail ejlate he left his fon

to ratify.

;

Every vow, and every kindinv oath
to .fflia the
fou., htr hulband may ejiailifi
it, or her hulband

4.

Co, mifer! go; for lucre fell thy foul
Truck wares for wares, and trudge from pole to pole.
That men may fay, when thou .irt dead and
gone,

;

to confirm.
Soon afier the rebellion broke out, the Prelbyterian
Uav3:rJ}a6IIJbrd in all its forms by an ordinance
3.

1.

Dryitn.

Fortune; poflcflion: generally meant of
pofleflions
land, or realities.
Sheaccufed us to the king, as thoueh we went
about to overthrow him in his own cjiutc.
Sidney.

Licke

E'STIMABLE. adj. [French.]

Condition; circumftances in general.

m

fuch a right of con9uell, as did or might alter
the
eftailijhtd laws of the kingdom. Halt'i Com.
La-u\

2.

This might inllruift the proudeft ^center of hil

otheis.

Locki.

The Kormans never obtained this kingdom by

One
higk

rate upon any thing.

but men are in the fame uncertain,
floating rjijtt with as without them.

^„,_

Pofe.
n.

own parts, how ufeful it is to talk and coiifult with

principles;

a people unto
"^

enjoy this world after

ejiecm.]
f. [from
that highly values; one that fcts an

Truth and certainty are not at all fecured by innate

to fix unalterably.

iimfell.

Este'embr.

now commonly writtenyya/^.

She call _ys headlong from our high cjiatt.

to

„>"«•,

;

perity or adverfity.

admire

am not uncafy that many, whom I never had

any efleem for, axe likely

butwhat-

For contemplation fake; yet otherwife
His life he led in lawlefs riotife.
Fairy Sfticm

To fettle tirmlv

1

lyakt

foever introduccth any great alter.uion, or
dangerous
precedent, or concemeth manifeftly anygreat
portion
ot people.
Bacon's Ujfays.
Condition of life, with regard to prof.

t'

The ploughman conful in hifcoavfe attire? Dryden.
Both thofe poets lived in much cjieem with good
and holy men in orders. Dryden' s Fables, Preface,

Many times the things .idduced to judgment may
be wteum &f tuum, when the reafon and
confciucnces
thereof may reach to point of cftatt i 1
call matters
of f/?,jre not only the parts of fovereignty,

From every work he challenged ejpnit^

1.

Sevete Fabricius, or can ccafc

the bufinefs of the
government; the publick. In this fenfe

exemption.

To ESTA'BLISH. v. a. {ftabUr, French.]

Who can fee.
Without ^wm for virtuous poverty,

bettled or final reft.
Whilft we fet unour hopes and fjl.ih!ljhme>,t here,

another and better place for us.

t'oiye/.
;

reverential regard.

falary.

Esta'te. »./. \]:Jiat, French.]

upon juft caofe of

abfence.

Estk'em. »./. [from the verb.] High valiic;

Aiurimy.

we do not (erioufly confider that God has provided

to an aftion real, or to j>erform

fuit to a court-baron,

Many would little ejlcem o/"theirown lives, yet
for remoife of their wives and children, would be
withheld from that henious crime.

i<u,if,.

6.

Souib.

To confider as to value

with«/C

His excellency, who had the fole difpofal of the
emperor's revenue, might gradually leilcnyour
eflablijhm"".

Shak//f. Henry VI.
Body and fpitit are tJentUUy divided, though not

All fin ejftntially is, and muft be mortal.

To Esteem, -j. n.

been

The name of valour.
locallydiftant.

One man efteemeih one day above another ; anotheC
ejleemelh every day alike.
Ram. xiv. ;.

prmciple;

flruckat; but in vain.

5.

And in her balance doth their values try. Daviet,
To prize; to rate high; to regard with

gine.

foundation; 'fundamental

Allowance; income;

to eftimate by proportion.

To

model of a

fettled law.

He ihat loves himfelf,

;

iyifd.yvx.%.

.

.

compare

revererice.
Who would not be lo«d more, though he were
e/eemcd lefs i
Drydan
hold in opinion ; to think ; to ima4.

Tlic facred order (0 which you belong, and
even
the f/lailifimeKt on which it fubCfts, have often

according to the true Rate of things.

anfvi-cr

3.

Now come into that general reformation, and
bring in that e/labUJbmmt by which all men Ihould
be contained in duty.
Stoifer.

The plague of fin has even altered his nature, and
eaten into his very r^'oT/u/j.
Soutb.

I o

ani

Befides, thofe (ingle foims Ihc doth ejlecm.

as, on the other fide, he avoided to have it
by new law) but chofe rather a kind of middle way,
by way of ejiublijhmoit.
Bacon's Htrtry VII.

His utmoft ire to the height cnragM,
Will eitiier quite confume us, or reduce
firft

_,
2.

of right;

Exiftence; being.

t. Nature;

French.
Settlement ; fixed ftate.

He had not the aft penned by way of recognition

Essb'ntial. n, f.

this

Hooker^

preferred her before fceptres and
thrones,
ejieemed riches nothing in comparifon of
her

ratification.

Arbulbmi,

,

I

2. Confirmation of fomething already done

defigncd by nature to preferve the feed from corrup-

•

1

wifdom ftvetli not.

ejlablijh

All happy peace, and g.Todl7 government,
Is fettled tlieie in fure ejlablijbmcnt .
Fairy Slum.

into a narrow coinpafs.

I.

[from

Sten/en

« I
J
Iciowledge in the works of nature th.:y
honour,
and ejieen highly profound wifdom:'
howbei;

ctahlijfenent,

rated ; extracted fo as to contain all the

tion.

». /,

To fet a value whether high or low upon
any thing.
The worth of all men by their end ejleem^ _
And then due praife, or due reproach them yield.
A

I reverence the holy fathers
as divine fjlablijhers
o'f^'/h.
L.Dt^by.

redlified; fubtilely elabo-

its

I.

Ourcldeil Malcolm, whom we name hereafter.

That fyrtem only, but the whole muft fjll.
Pope.
Important in the higheft degree ; prin-

^/«,,

j

Latin.]

We will eJfMifi our eftafe upon

The leall confulion hut in one, not all

virtues of

To ESTEEM, eo. a. Sjflinur, French

A fenfe not in ufe.

Svrl/l

And if ejch fyftem ia gradation roll,
Alike effentiul to th' ama*' ig whole,

Than courage.
3. Pure; highly

EST

7. To make a fettlement of atiy inheritance.

I'd love

My conntr/'t good, with a rcfpeft more tender,
M»re
4 T *

'

ETC

EST
More hol;^ and profaund tlun mine own Y\(e,
My deir Wife's ej/imatr, her womb's incrcafe,

;

Thetreafure of my loins. Siakcfffare'i Cariolanu).

of proportional
value; comparative judgment.
The only way to come to a true rJilmMt upon the

5. Valuation ;

alTigniiient

a publick and a private lil'c, is to try
L'Ejiraxgi.
Outward anions can never give a juft eftimaic of

tidds beitviit

both.

U5, fince there are many perfections of a
are not capable of appearing in a£iions.

Estima'tion.

man which
Addijun.

f, \XtQKi ejiimau,^
i. The aft of adjufting proportional value.
If a man ihould faofiify unto the lord fome part
ti,

of a 6eld, the tjiimatiai thall be according to

the

Levhicus.

Iced.

Opinion

;

judgement.

In our own ejiimaiion we account fuch particulars
more worthy than thofe that are already tried and
Bacon.
known.

4. Efteem; regard; honour.
Crimes there were laid to his charge many, the
leaft

whereof being juft, had bereaved him of i^;>a-

(lioker.
tion and credit with men.
Of your brace of unprizcabie .iJlimationSy the ohc
Shakefptare.
is but frail, and the other c.ifual.

know the gen;leman

I

To be of worth and worthy ijlimatioii.
And not without dcfert fo well reputed. Shakefptare.
ejiimtithn among the multitude,

1 fball have

A plain reafon of the publick honours due to the
is,

that he may be in due eJHmaiinn and

Atterhury.

E'sTlMATiVF. ad/, [hom ejlimafe-l Having the power of comparing and adjufting
the preference.
animals an eftimative or judicial
faculty, anappetitionoraverfation, and loco-motive
Hale.
faculty anfwermg the will.
The error is not in the eye, hut 'm\\\i efiimullve
miftakingly
concludes
that
colour
10
farulty, which
belong CO the wall, which indeed belongs to the ob-

VVc

find

in

BoyU.

jeft.

A fet-

Estima'tor. n.f. [from eftlmale.']
tler of rates; a computift.

E'srivAL.

adj.

\^izus, Latin.]

«. /.

EsTo'pKL.

». /.

Latin.]

\a-flivatio,

Bjcon.

Such an aft

[law term.]

in the air, yerks furioufly with his hind

:

as bars any legal procefs.

Estrf'pement. K.f. [of the French word

Is to be frighred out of tear ;

and in tliat mood.

ferent,

from them til things

indif-

who feeili not how greatly' prejudicial this

for coiivcrfion of infidcK rjlr.tiiged from tlie houfe of

Cod, but for lolUudion of men bap. need, bred, aitd
lliu,kir.
brought up in the bofum of the church.
See, Ihc weeps;
,
Thinks me unkind, or faUe, and knows not why
Dry Jen.
I thus rft range my perfon from her bc4.

To alienate; to divert from its original
ufc or pofTeflbr.

They have ejhangtd this place, and have b.irnt

To alienate from afTcftion

;

is,

a

f'ober

incakfccnce, and

Brown,

regulated ejluance from wine.

Latin.]
An
the mouth of a lake or
;
river in which the tide recipiDcates ; a

E'sTUARV. ». /.
arm of t!ie fea

more or lefs.

"v.

a.

[^a-Jitio,

in a (late of violent commotion.

Di.fl.

;

Rivets and lakes that want fermenting parts at ihe
bottom, arc not excited into ejiuations\ therefore
Brc-wn.
Come ii:a!i flow higher than others.
'Ilic motion of tlie will is accompanied with a
fenfible commotion of the fpirits, and an' rjluathn-oi
N:/rrL\
the bldod.

E'sTURE. «./.
commotion.

\_ajlu!,

Liitin.]

Violence;

When they fow their etch crops, they fprinklc
Mortimer.
a pound or two of clover on an acre.
Where you find dunging of land makes it rank,
lay dung upon the etch, and fow it with barley.
Mortimer's Hujbandry,

1.

Without beginning or end.

2.

Without beginning.

The eterna! God is thy refuge. Diuler. xxxiii. 27.
'

Xkakefftare.

3.

in them nature's copy's not eternal.

Shakefp,

4. Perpetual; conftant; unintermrtting.
Burnt otf 'rings morn and ev'ning (hall be thine,
Dryden.
.\nd fires fiern.ii \n thy temple thine.
5.

Unchangeable.
Mobbes believed the eternal truths which he opDryJen.
\

pofed.

Ete'rnal.

[eternel,

». /.

One

French,]

of the appellations of the Godhead.
Tliatlaw whereby the iVnTi.jyhirofcIf doth work*
Hooker.

The Eternal, to prevent fuch horrid fray,
Hung out of lieav'n his golden fcales.

Ete'rnai.ist. »./.

The Teas retain

Milton.

One

[aternifs, Latin.]

infinite.
I would aflc the eternaliJIs what mark is there
that they could expect to delire of the iiovelry of a
woiid, that is not found in thii>?
Or what mark is
Burnet.
there of eternity that is not lound in this^

Chapman.

Esu'rif NT. a^'. [^//yVw, Latin.] Hungry;
voracious.

Di(3.

-

A

having an

Without end ; endlefs; immortal.

— But

Not only their outrageous f^ute there.
Bill lupernatural mifchicf they expire.

Etc.

It is a (jueftion quite diflferent from our

idea of eternity, to know whether there were any
real being, whofe duration has been eternal f hiekt,

that holds the pall exigence of the world

'''
eating.
Over much piercing is the air of HampOead, in
which fort of air there is always fomelhing r/>.r/;rt°
and acid.
H'i/tman.

VhytcU 1 Call it, beii-g ftiaiigc to me.

Rxiy.

Thou kiK}w*ll that Banquo and his Fleance lives,

Latin.]
To
fwell and fall reciprocally; to boil; to be

To Est u ATE.

to turn from

That thou ait thus rjlrangid fiom ihjfelf?

without (hifting

way and that way,

Etch. n. f. A country word of which I
know not the meaning.

{.-rjluarium,

BJs-VKiKE, aJJ. [j/irr/fl, Latin.] Corroding;

kindnefs to malevolence or indifference.
1 low cooies it now, my hurt'and, oh, how comes it,

to reft one quarter of on hour

of lides, or at leatt etching this

ETE'RNAL. adj. [erternits, Latin.]

fir. xii. 4.

inrenfe in it toother gods.

7,

When we lie long awake in the night, we are not
able

E'sTUANCE. n.J. Heat; warmth. AVord

;

HiAtr.
mit;ht have been to fo good a caufe
They know it it out cu!iom of fimple reading, not

a.

fide.

His glorious (rain, nor eftricb her rare plumes.
Sandys.

;

Mad we not only cut off" rheir corruption*, but

to draw ; to delineate [^unlefs

for edge.']

The dove will peck the cjlrijge.
Shake/peare.
The peacock, not at thy command afTumes,

Estua'tion. ». /. [from erjiuo, Latin.]
Dii'l.
An even or level fpacc.
The ftate of boiling; reciprocation of rife
qr* ESTRA'NGE. 'v. a. [fftraMgn-, French.]
and fall agitation commotion.
To keep at a diftance to withdraw.
I
alfo ejifungci outfclvcs

;

[This word is evidently miftaken by Ray
To move forwards towards one

3.

term of life upon any lands or woods,
to the prejudice of him in the rcverfion.
Cmvel.
E'strich. «?./. [commonly written j/?^^,
Jirutiiocameiris.J
The largeft of birds.

To be furious.

To (ketch

There are many empty terms to be found in fome
learned writers, to which they had recaurfe to eicb
out their fyftems.
Locke.

Ctnvel.

Spoil made by the tenant for

which

this word be miftaken by Locke iot eke,]

frith.

EtTo'vERS. w. /. [law terra.] Neceffaries
allowed by law.
Estra'de. n.f. [French ;^r<7/ii(«, Latin.]

.

2.

A

ejirepier.]

the

infmuating into the ftrokes made by the
needles, ufually eats, in about half an
hour, into the figure of the print or drawing on the copper-plate.
Harris,

Estre'ate. n.f. [extrnavrntljiCin] The
for
true copy of an original writing
example, of amerciaments or penalties, fet
down in the rolls of a court, to be levied
by the bailiff, or other officer, of every
man for his offence.
law term,

wax border being made all round

tity of well tempered ajaa fortis,

Farrier's Dia.

'

legs.

lowable in Cato; that

The aft of pafiing the fummer.
A grotto is a place ol Ihade, or tfiii'Miun.

a

plate, there is poured on a fufficient quan-

;

Averroes iclvrainiul his hilarity, and made no
more thereof than Seneca commciideth and was al-

Pertaining to the fummer.
z. Continuing for the funinier.

,

The de[French.]
fence of a horfe that will not obey, who,
to get rid of his rider, rifes mightly
before
and while his forehand is yet
». /.

rarely found.

I.

Estiva'tion.

abftraftion.
Dcfires, by a loop eftrangemtnt from better things,
come at length perfeflly to loath, and fly otF from
South.
them.

and

lyi/J. viii. 10.

honour with the elders.
magiltrate
reverence.

;

backfide tinftured with white lead, will
by running over the ftrucken out lines
with a (lift, imprefs the cxaft figure on
the black or red ground ; which figure is
afterwards with needles drawn deeper
quite through the ground, and all the
fnadows and hatchings put in; and then

Alienation; dillance; removal; voluntary

ESrRAPJ'DE.

2. Calculation; computation.
3.

E T E

words et cielera, which fignifies, andfo mt;
Speech intermitted, thus to Eve renew'd.
Milten.
and the reft and others of the like kind.
1 came to grieve a fatlier's heart tjlrant'd;
To Etch. t;. a. [etzen, German.]
Butlittle thought to find a miftrefs chang'd. Dryden.
1. A way ufed in making of prints, by
I do not know, to this hour, what it is that has
ejirangtd him from me.
Pope.
drawing with a proper needle upon a cop4. To withdraw or withhold.
per-plate, covered over with a ground of
We muft tjirange our belief from every thing
wax, ijf(. and well blacked with the fmoke
which is not clearly and dillih£lly evidenced.
of a link, in order to take off the figure of
Clanv'tlle's Scepjis.
which having its
the drawing or print
Estrangement, n.f. [from eftrange.]
Kiia\,ejlraiig'd in look, and alter'd ftyle.

contraftion cf

the

two Latin

To Eti'rn alize. t. a. [fromrfrrW.]

make eternal.
Etfr'n ally. ad-v. [from eternal.']
1.

2.

To

Z);V7,

Without beginning or end.
Unchangeably invariably.
;

That v\liich is morally good, or evil, at any bme,

EVA

E T Y

E T E
'

conllrue them

Co heavenly gueft, ethereal mefleflger,

or in »ny cafe, mull be «lfo tttmaUy and unchangeably fo, with relation to that time and to that cafe.

Sent from whofe fovcreign goodnefs I adore, Atilton,

South

Thrones and imperial pow'rs, offspring of Heaven,
Ethereal virtues

3, Perpetually; withcJt interrniflion.
Bear me, fame god, to Baj .'s gentle feats,

Or cover me in Umbna's green retreats.
Where wcftern gales tttrnaily refide.
And all the feafons laviOi all their pride.

Ete'rne.

adj.

[<«/(•"?«/,

AJJifc^it.

Eternal;

Latin.]

perpetual ; endlefs.

The Cyclops \.:,mmtTi fall
Shake/.

On Mars his armour, forg'd for proof cieme.

Ete'enity.

71.

f.

[Eterifita:,

Latin.]

Thy immortal rhyme
Makes this one (hort point of time.
Cnvlcy.

By repeating the idea of any length of duration
which we have in our minds, with all the endlefs
addition of number, we come by the idea o( eternity.
Lode,
2. Duration without end.
Beyond is all abyfs,
Etermtyf whofc end no eye can reach

Miltcrt,

!

Eternity, thou pleating, dreadful thought
Through what vanety of uniried being.

pation of the ethereal happinefs and employment.
Glanfille.
Vaft chain of being, which from God began,
Pope.
VsLtures ethereal, human; angel, man.

Addi/on.

To Ete'rnize. <v. a. [eeterm, Latin.]
1. To make endlefs ; to perpetuate.

To make for ever famous

;

to

Alitton,

immor-

much the more as he it near his end, doth

Sidney.
and writings.
And well befeems all knights of noble name,
That covet in th* immortal book of fame
To be eterni:ud, that fame to haunt. Fairy Siueen.
I might relate of thoufands, and their names
Eternite here on earth ; but lliofe elcft
AngeU, contented with their fame in heav'n.
Seek not the praife of men. Milton' i Faradife Loji.
The four great monarchies have been celebrated
by the writings of many famous men, who have
tternixed their fame, and thereby their own. Temple.
Both of them art fet on fire by the great actions
of heroes, and both endeavour to eteini-x^ them.
Dryden't Dufrefnoy.
it by fpeeches

have accented the firft

Hence came its name, in that the grateful Jove
Hath eier):ii.'d the glory of his love. Creech's Manil.

ETHER, n.f. [alher, Latin; «.:>«.]
An

I,

element more Hne and fubtile than

air ; air refined or fublimed.
If any one (hould fuppofc that ether, like our air,
nay contain particles which endeavour to recede
from one another ; for X do not know that this
efher is; and that its particles are exceedingly
fmallerthan thofe of air, or even than thofe of light,
the exceeding fmallnefs of its particles may contribute to the grearnefs of the force by which thofe particle? may recede from one another.
Neivtcn.
The parts of other bodies are held together by
the eternal preffure of the el/j'r, and can have no
other conceivable ca .'; of their cohclion and union.
JLccie.

The matter of the higheft tegions above.

a.

There fields of light and liquid ether flow,
Purg'd from the pond'rous dregs of earth below,
JUrjden.

Ethf.'reai. adj. [from «^fr.]
1,

Formed of ether.
Man feel» men when I prefs th' erierea/ fh'im.
Dryden.

a. CelcfUal; heavenly.

ing precepts of morality.

The part of grammar which delivers the

2.

inflexions of nouns and verbs.

E'tymon.

call

without the Angular.
doftrine of morality; a

yftem of morality.
For of all moral virtues, Ihe was all

the mod

generous amongH all the feds who have given rules
Dryden.
of elbickt.
If the atheids would live up to the ethicks of
Epicurus himfclf, they would make few or no pro-

BentUy.

fclytes from the Chridian religion.

[i&nx®-.]

;

There is no good way of prevention but by evaHooker,
cuating c\m\, and emptying the church.

We tried how far tlie air would manifed its gramedium,

as we could make in our

receiver, hy evacuating \t.

Boyle,

vity in fo thin a

Te throw out as noxious, or offenfive.
3. To void by any of the excretory paflages. ^
2.

who by

a long ufe of whey and water, and garden fruits,
evacuated a great quantity of black matter, and

If the prophecies recorded of the Meffiah are not
in Jefus of Nazareth, it is impoffible to
know when a prophecy is fulfilled, and when not,

Heathen; Pa-

infolence of degenerated
Gei'. 0/ the Tongue.

Athuthrot,

recovered his fenfes.

4. To make void; to evacate ; to nullify;
to annul.
The defeft, though it would not evacuate a marriage, after cohabitation and adlual confummation ;
yet it was enough to make void a contra*^.
Bacon's Henry VII,
fulfilled

Such contumely as the ethick world durft not
Chrillians.

Peacham.
Latin.]
To

To EVA'CUATE. -v. a. [e^acuo, Latin.]
to clear.
1. To make empty

gan; notJewi(h; notChriftian.
offer him, is the peculiar

\jvaco,

a.

Boerhaave gives an indanceof a patient,

Bacon,

adj.

1'.

to difincarcerate venene bodies, or to cvacite them.
Harvey on the Plague.

Donne,

That etbicks fpcak of virtues cardinal.

E'thnick.

Origin; primi-

empt)' out ; to throw out.
Dry air opens the furface of the earth

n. /.

The

[ij-t/ior.]

iky-colour or heaven's blue.

To Eva'cate.

entitled part of his works Ethid Epiftles.

E'thicks.

k./.

tive word.
Blue hath its etymon from the High Dutch btaw;
from whence they call hemmel-blue, that which we

Whence Pofe

Perlius profefles the Hoick philofophy ;

Mankind by all means feeking to eterni-xx him-

3. Creech feems to
fyllable.

E'thick. adj.

Government of the Tongue.
Moral; deliver[i'^i»©-.]

gion.

talize.
felf, fo

derivation oc etymology, yet the original derivation
of words is oftentimes very daik.
If'atts's Log.

My fubjedlleadsmenot todifcourfee/A/ia//)', but
Chriftiaftly of the faults of the tongue.

Addifon's SpeBator.

If the meaning of a word could be learned by its

Behold the bright furface

Of this elhereous mould, whereon we (land. Milton.
E'THICAL. adj. [i'3-.x©'.] Moral; treating
on morality.
E'thically. ai^'. [ftom elhica!.] According to the doftrines of morality.

is

her glafs.

I will never fet politicks againft ethicki; for true
ethicki are but as a handmaid to divinity and reli-

1

2.

Formed

Ethe'reous. adj. [from ether.]

fii^wi).]

Through what new fcenes and changes muft we pafs

with two fair gifts
Created him endow'd ; with happinefs,
And immortality : that fondly lolt.
This other ferv'd but to eternize woe.

Milton' Paradife Left.

!

of ether ; heavenly.

In this ground his precious root
oat
Still lives, which, when weak time (hall be pour'd
IntOf/erw/Vv, and circular joys
Dancing ari endlefs round, again (liall rife. Crajhavi.

To fill up half the orb of round Eternity.

Pelvis

like the fpirits above, in contemplating the Divine
Wifdom in the works of nature ; a kind of antici-

Duration without beginning or end.

1.

is wretchedly ridicuCollier's Vieiu of the Stage,
ufed by comick writers for a lookingglafs, by which means the etymology of the word is
vifible, and pelvidera will (ignify a lady who looks in

lous.

Such as thefe, being in good part freed from the
entanglements of fenfe and body, are employed,

,

by didionary,

in any thing or perfon whatfoever, which

would utSouth,

terly evacuate the ufe of them.

To quit

to withdraw from out of a place.
As this neutrality was never obferved by the empereur, fo he never z^t^\s2\\y evacuated Catatonia.

c.

profane,
(hall begin with the agreement of
1
whether Jewilh or ethick, with the Sacred Writ-

;

Greiu.

ings.

E'th.mcks. «./. Heathens; not Jews; not
Chriftians.
This fird Jupiter of the eihnicki was then the
Raitigh'i Hijlory.
fame Cain, the fon of Adam.

Etholo'gical.

adj.

[ii'&®*

and A*y©-.]

SvjiJ't,

Eva'cuant. tt,/, \evacuatti, Latin.]
dicme

Etymclo'cical.

adj.

[from etymology.]

Relating to etymology ;

relating to the

derivation of words.
this etymological obfervation.

EjKufe this conceit,

Locke.

Etymo'locist. ». f. [from
One who fearches out the original of
words one who (hows the derivation of
etymology.]

;

n.

f.

[etjmologia,

;

dif-

,

Confider the vad evacuatitni of men that England hath had by affiftances lent to foreign kingHale'i Origin cj Mankind,
doms.
2.

Abolition; nullification.

Popery hath not been able to re-edablirti iifelf in
any place, after provifion made agaiiill it, by utter
Hooker.
Romifh ceremonies.
evacuation o(
3. The praflice of emptying the body by

M

phyfick.

The ufual praftice of phyfick among us, turns in
a manner wholly upon ev,icitation, either by bleedTemple,
ing, vomit, or fome purgation.
4. Difcharges of the

body by any vent na-

tural or artificial.

words from their original.

ETMO'LOGY.

[^Tome'vaciiafe,]

Such emiffions as leave a vacancy
charge.

[iiiTioA»y««.]
An aca. /.
count of the caufes of any thing, gene-

Etio'locy.

rally of a diftemper.
1 have not particulars enough to enable me to enArbuthnoi.
ter into the etiology of this didemper.

iVlc-

by any

paflage.

Evacua'tion. n./,
1

Treating of morality.

that procures evacuation

Lat.

and AoV<^.]
I. Thedcfcent or derivation of a word from
its original; the dedudlionof formations
the analyfis of
from the radical word
compound words into primitives.
'irvfU/'M,

;

Confumpiion is generally taken for any univerfal
diminution «nd colliquaiionofthe body which acceptation its ttymology implies.
Harvey on Confumptions.
When words are redrained, by common ulage,
to a particukr fenfe, to run up to etymology, and

To EVA'DE. 1), a, [evado, Latin.]
I. To elude; to efcape by artifice or ilratagem.
In this point charge him home, that he affedlt
il he evade us there,

Tyrannick power:

Inforcc him with hiscnvy to the people. Sbakefpeare%
\\ thou covet death as utmoll end

Ofmifery, fothiiiking loeiade

The penalty pronouncM, doubt not but Cod
Hath wifclicr arm'd his ve.ige ful ire, than fo
Milton's Par.,dife Loft.
accomplilhmcKt ot ihefe
Brottm,
affliClions he now gradually endureih.

To be forcftall'd.
He might evade

the

To

t.

To avoid

J.

Tobreak hcUbounds? Dryjfit's St.ilc of liauKence.
To efcape or elude by fophillry.

;
to decline by AiHterf igf
Ourqueftion thou evjJ'Ji ; how did 'II ihoj dare

EVA'MGELY. «. /.

[-nxyyoJi, that is,
good tidings.] Good tidings; themcflage
of pardon and falvatioiv; the holy gofpel

My

To efcape as imperceptible or uncon-

To efcape

1.

;

to flip away.

without the commixtion of allum, argol, and tlie
Broivn.
like.
I put as great difTerence between our new liglits
and ancient truths, as between ths fun and an
GlunviUe.
tvaiiid meteor.

dexterity to deliver himfclt

Millon.

ToEva'nish. v.a. [««M^, Latin.] To
vanilh; to efcape from notice or percep-

The miuillers of God are not to rvaiie or take

Eva'porable. adj. [from e-japoraU.^ Ea-

Have eafily. as fjpirils, ruarffi/fwift
By quick ccntradlion, or remove.
2. To praiJ^ifc fophiftry or evafions.

Evaga'tion. n.f.

fily diilipatcd in

The

[evagor, Latin.]

viation.
Thcie long chains of lofty mountains which run
through whole continents eall and we'.i, ferve to ftop
the « yafa/i'oB of the vapours to the north and fouth
[ei'/titfjctus,

Latin.

vapours.
1 f w c compute that prodigious mafs of water daily
thrown into the fca from all the riv«rs, wc (liould
then know how much is perpetually evaporated, and
cad again upon the continents to fupply thofe innuBeniliy.
merable llreams.
Convents abroad are fo many retreats for the fpe-

Hoehr.

politick, and the morofe, to fpend themfelves, and
Sv.ujt.
evaporate the noiious particles.
perceive clearly that five will warm or burn us,
lVatti*i l^gitk.
and will evaporate water.

The

2. To give vent to; to let out in ebullition

«./.

[from ri'ange/j.'j

[it/KyysA®-.]

A writer of the niftory of our Lord

1.

Jefus.
Each of thcfe early writers

a. A promulgator of the Chriftian laws.
Thofe to whom he firll enlrurted the promulgating

alight again in rain,

and it were lit our

Pour'd firft on his apoftles,

2.

T' fva"geliz£ the nations; then on all
Bjj-t>t'U| fhall them with wosd'rous jifis endue.
MiJ:cii,

"1

n.f.

(jiiucy.

[a;pen, Saxon; avend, or

atroad,

Dutch.]

The clofe of the day; the latter part of

I.

the interval between bright light
the day
and darknefs.
They, like fo many Alexanders
;

Have in thcfe parts from morn 'dWcven fought.

And Iheath'd their fwords for lack of argument.
Shakefp.

When the fun's orb both et'M and morn is bright,^
ThenT*t no fear of llorms thy mind affiight.
Such lights as youthful poets dream

On Summer eves by haunted ftream.

The vigil c^ fail to be obferved before

z.

w

an holiday,
\
not e-i-eii.

this fenfe only.^fT;^ is ufed,

Let the immediate preceding day be kept as the
Ltppa's Rule to Devotion.

fuperior in quan^y to the

<"iw to this great le aft.

ffondivard.

The aft of attenuating matter, fo as to E'vEN. adj. [epen,' Saxon;
Thofe waters,

afcended.

An operation by which

liquids are fpent or driven away in fleams,
fo as to leave fome part ftronger, or of a
hii>her confirtence than before.

Eva'sio.n, *./.

[fi'a/«/«, Latin.]

«;cw, Dutchj

iTjuus, Latin.]

by rarcfaflion and evaporation,
Ral,

[In pharmacy.]

May.
Miltott.

O, nightingale, that on yon bloomy fpray
Warblelt at eve, when all the woods aic Itill.
Milton,
Th' unerring fun by certain figns declares.
What the late rv'«,or early morn prepares. Diydctt.
Winter, oft^at eve, lefumes the breczr,
Ihcmjsn'i Spring.
Chills the pjle''morn.

make it fume away.

3.

whom he fends

'tis

rain of colder I'eafons.

DeayifPilty.
To EvA'NcrLlZF. 'v.a. [evangelizo, Latin;
To inllruft in the gofpel,
tt>!tvy»^'i»'.]

or law of Jefus.
The fpirit

ftate of health.

Eve.
E'vEN. J

tio^vel.
evaporatiom of a vindidlive fpirit.
£vuptraiiont are at fome times greater, according
wherever
they
to the greater heat of the fun; fo

Adiifutt.

A formu-

An agreeable
well proportioned mixttire of qualities,
wliereby a body is faid to be in a good

tVotton.

pours ; vent ; difcharge.
They are but the fruits of adufted choler, and the

[i;(;«A*)'(«r,]

of prayers.

Eu'cRAsY. »./. [i»x{««-(«.]

1

afcribe to the four

of the
new nanfj.ljtt lltould (liow tlieir authority.

lary'

Evapora'tion. n.f. [from «;/7/«r<7/<f.]
1 he aft of flying away in fumes or va-

ruangrtiflt by name their refpeflive hilloriu.

gofpc), h.id inilruflions;

Eucho'logy. «./.

My lord of Effex niaporalfd his thoughts in a fonnet to be lung before the queen.

Ray.

Relating to the facrament of the fupper
of the Lord.

2.

or fallics.

Bacon.

the apoftolical and mirnculous evjfrgt/i/m.

we praife thee,

our da liy devotions:

OGod, for our limbs and fenfes.

We

promulgation of the blefled gofpel.
Thus was this land faved from inhdelity, through

Eva'nCELIST. «./.

rijllcal finoi

culative, the melancholy, the proud, the l.lcnt, the

Thofc tvangclicai hymns they allow not to ftand

\1tom eachaiiji.y

the breaking and blclfrngof the bread.
Bro'u-H,
It would not be amil's to put it into the eueia-

Siuijt.

bifli.

Contained in the gofpel.

Eva'ngelism.

in a digefting furnace to
Boyle.

To Eva'porate. "v. a.
1. To drive away in fumes; to difperfe in

but 'tis by ruangtiical, not a legal rightcoufncfs,
and by the intervention of the man Chrift JefUs,
who is the Saviour at well as the Judge of the world.
Attevbury

in our liturgy.

it

The enemy takes a furer way to confume us, by

«»j»jf/(fa/ perfetlioni ought to have been obferved.
Arbuthntt^
GoJ will indeed judge the world in righteoufnefsj

2.

fet

itdj.

Containing afts of thankfgiving.
The latter fart w.is eucbarijli.al, which began at

1.

letting our courage evaporate aguinlf Hones and rub-

and

goodnefs

TayUr.

EuCHARi'stICAL.

'riiis vapour falling upon joints which have not
heat enough to difpel it, cannot be curcu otherwife
than by burning, by which U evaporates.
Temple.

ThomJoCs Spring,
Of rvantf.oit YlAtSa
iEvange'licai.. <7i^'. [evangelique, French;

moral

we

evaporati' more nimbly.

Vl'Maftcn,
The downy orchard, and the melting pulp
Of mellow fruit, the namelefs nations Iced

Agreeable to gofpel ; confonant to the
Chriltian law revealed in the holy gofpel.

an office of thanklgivisg for what they have received.

Decay of Piety.
Being weary with attending the flow contumption

ff tty cafes, is almoll evanrfccm.

evangelicu! , Latin.]

Some receive the facramcnt as a means to procure
great graces and bleflings, others as an euchariji an4

;

The difference between right and wrong, on fome

Uootc.

in the euchariji.

Ihould have talked lefs,. and done morev

of the liquor,

[«>;«f.f.«.] Theaft

of giving thanks; the facramental aft in
wluch the death of our Redeemer is commemorated with a thankful remembrance j
the facramcnt of the Lord's ftipi)er.
Himfelf did better like of common bread to be ufed

Denbem.
Our works unhappily e^'aforated into word» we

that the cvaiu-fctnt folid and fluid will fcarce differ.
Arifuthnot.

elufively ; fophifticaily.

fion ;

EU'CHARIST. «. /.

;

Pocfy is of fo fubtile a fpirit, that in the fouring
out of one language into another it will evaporate.

Vanifhing ; imperceptible ; leffening beyond the perception of the fenfes.
The canal grows ftill fmaller and flendcrer, fo as

This diftinflion between

Eva'sively. ad-v. [ftome^'aftve.l Byeva«

Crctv.

to wade infenfibly as a volatile fpirit.

/'•y-

in hot countries.

adj.

honeftly artful.

their vir-

tin.]

'\

Containing an evafion; fophiftical ; dif-

2.

EVA'PORATE. -v. n. [rvapen,, LaTo fly away in vapours or fumes

To

\fiom evade.

Thus he", though confcious of th'cticrial gueft,
Anfvvcr'd evajlve oi the flv- rcquclV. Popc'i OJyJjiyt

tue lies in parts that ai« of themfelves volatile, and
ealily n'afomhle,

adj.

Ptaftifing evafion ; elufive.

1.

fumes or vapours.

Such cordial powders as arc aromatick,

aft of wandering ; excurfion J ramble; de-

Evane'scent.

Eva'sive.

tion.

irfuge in any of thefc two formentioned ways.
South.

ii.

^

of the flower is rather nianid and weaker than that
Bacon,
of the leave?.
The decoilions of 6mplc9, which bear the vifible
colours of bodies decoded, are dead and evanid,

His wifilow, by ofien evading fram perils, was
a

Forc'd I abfolve s all my cvajions vaiir,
.^nd reafonings, though through mazes, lead me ftilj
Milton' t Buradife L^.
But to my own couvidion.
In ^*ain thou llriv'ft to cover Oiame with Oituitc ;
Tliou by evafiom thy crime uncover'll more.
Mtht

;

ufed with_/ro/7r.
turned rather into

We are too well acquainted with Uiofc anfwers
But his rvajion, wiug'd thus fwjft witli fcorn,
Cannot outriy our appiohenrions.
Sbatrfptate,

Faint;

Where there is heat and ftrength enough in the
plant to make the leaves odoratc, there the fmell

It ia Hot now

from dangers, than into a providence to prevent it.
Bucon'i Utnry VII.
Unarm'd they might

Fairy

Eva'nid. adj. \e<vamdust Latin.]
weak evanefcent.

South.

Vnowlcdge, and evajis his po\ver.
To. Eva'de. h, n.

artful

Him, after all di^putcff,

Thatfirft receiv'd Chrinianity,
The facred pledge of Q.'tv(\A.\evttngtly.

Siillingjlttt

querable, as too great or too fubtleto be
icized or fubducd.
Wc have feeii how a contingent even baffles man'i

fubterfugc ; fophiftry ; artifice ;
means of eluding or efctping.

the gofpel oijijus.
Good I>UCiuS,

argument evijemly oveiilir.iws all that he
bringi 10 n'uJe the leilimonica of the fathers.

4.

EVE

EVA

EVA

^incy,
Excufe;

1.

Level; not ragged; not unequal; fmooth
as oppofed to rough.
To Ice a beggar's brat in fiches flow.
Adds not a wrinkle to my even brow.

Dryden,

Th* prefcnt face of R>me is much man even and
level (&ai>it was formerly.

Addijon on Italy.

The fuperticits of fuch plates are not even,
but have «>ny «avitics and ' fwellings, which, how
'•^~'
thallow
"

EVE

EVE

t.

Uniform

Only in (trokes.

Lay the rough paths of peevilh nature ev*nj

And open in each heart a little heav'n,
3. Level with ;

Pihr.

parallel to.

Thattlie net may \xevtii to the midft of the altar.

It is not

Exod

this

And (hall lay thee even with the ground.

Not having inclination any way

;

but he could not

2.

SbaluJ'ptare's Cor'iolanus.

Not having any part higher or lower
than the other.
3.

of bis empire, he laid a dry hide before

him, and dclircd him to fet his foot on one fide
thereof; which being done, all the other parts of
the hide did rife up ; but when hedid fet his foot in
all

fair;

;

Books give the fame turn

5.

We reckon with your feveral loves,
And make us iven with you
Henceforth be earls.
Shairfff^e'i Mach'.h.
I will be tvfn niih thee, doubt it not.
Shake/.
I do confefs
The blind lad's pow'r, white he inhabits there
But I 'be
'n with hrm neverthelefs.
Suckling.
In taking revenge, a man is but ncn with his
enemy, but in palling it over, he is fuperior.
Bacon's Effyis.
Evn reckoning makes lafting friends ; and the
way to make reckonings even is tamake them often.

U reciprocal.

and they relblved at any rate to be againii him.

Calm

6.

;
to make level.
This temple Xerxes eiened uiththefoil, which
Alexander i« fait to have repaired.
Ral,igh.
Beat, roll, and mow cSrpei-walks and camomile-;
fcf now the ground is fupfle, and it will cuen
all

ine^ua'itRs.

To Even.

a.

To be- equal to.

1

•

'

There is one event to the righteous and
wicked

Oh heavy times, begetting fitch events
I.

(hall fall

.

Two fpears from Mele.iger's hand were fent,

2. Levelly;

without afperities.

A paliih cicarntf!, evenly and fmoothly fpread ;
not overthiu and walhy, but of a pretty folid coufiilence.

Without inclination to either fide
pofture parallel
zontally.

4.

Dryd..

In a bear, which the hunters evtnteratid, or
opened, I beheld the young ones, with all llieir parts
dirtiiiiS.

bro^vn..

Eve'ntful.

\ementmd full.]

adj.

of incidents ;

full

;

Full.

of changes of fortune.

Laft fccne of all.

That ends this ftrange eventful hiftory.
Shakeff. As you like it.

Is fecoiid childithnefs.

[eventilo, La.i\n.'\

To winnow; to fift out.
2. To examine; to difcufs.
1.

Z>/A.

Eve'ntuai,. adj. [irome-vent.] Happening in confequence of any thing ; confequential.

Eve'ntuai.lv.. i?;/-!;. [from <~i'<'/r/j/fl/.]

Im

the event ; in the laft refult ; in the confequence.
Hermione has but intentionally, r\ot eventually,.
difobliged you
and hath made your flainc a butcc

in a

;

to the

horizon ;

hori-

return, by reltoring you your own heart..

E'vKR.

The upper face of the fea is known to be level by
nature, and tvenly^\^2.nl from the centre, and waxes
deeper and deeper the farther one failcth from the
"•ore.

blood.

To Eve'nterate. i>. (7. \eventen, Latin.]To rip up; to open by ripping the belly..

IVolton.

_

3.

On the boar's brif.led back, and deeply dr.mk hia

To Eve'ntilate. v.n.

and therefore muft reft for ever, being evenly balanced between infinite attradfions.
Btntley.

the con-^

The firit was fix'd in earth, the (ccond (lood

H'atis on the Mind,

Equally ; uniformly; in an equipoife.

;

tlie

Eecl.

With cqu^il force but vutlous in \\\' event'.

Saxon; amend,

[zepen,

The confequcnce of an adion

to

Sbakejfi.

!

clufion ; the upfhot.

Sbakeffeare' s Macbetb.

In an infinite chaos nothing could be formed ; no
could convene by mutual attraftion ; for
every one there muft have infinite matter around it,

never

[often contrafted to W'/».]
-•'
t, Awordof" -n; verily.
Svenioin:
'le coaftj,
f/'f ///ir.

good or bad.

hand.]

particles

Carrw.

adi:.

and

E'vENLV. adj. [itom e-ven.']

A like (Irangeobfervaiion t.nketh place here 35 at
E'viK.

\e^'tn

aitions and affairs of the day.

Now

numbering

Gen. xxiv. 67.

EVE'NT. »./ [c'venitts, Latin.]
I. An incident; anything that happens,,

Collier.

Like a bright exhalation in the evening.
And no man fee me more.
Siakr/f. H^nry VIII.
The devil is now more laborious than ever, the long
day of mankind drawing towards an evening, and the
world's tragedy and time near at an end.
Raleigb.
Mean time the fun defcended from theflcics.
And the bright evening ftar began to rife.
Dryden.
It was the fjcred rule among the Pythagoreans,
that tliey (hould tvtry evening thrice run over the

difufcd.
Sicnehenge, that a redcubkd
n'lneib with the firft.

Fairy ^teen..
Ifaac went out to meditate at the eventide.

Dutch.] The clofe of the day ; the beginning of night.

Ewlyn.
-v.

adj.

To our own lips.
E'vENiNG. n. /.

To make even.
To make out of debt; to pat in aflate in'

3. To level

A fwarrn of gnats at eventide.
Out of the fens of Allan do arifc.
Their murmuring fmall trumpets founding wide.

Returns th' ingredients ot our poifon'd chalice

1

I

e'en let it paft.

impartial ; equitable.
Evenbanded \M^\zt

the lateral divifion of man by«/i?H and odd, afcribiiig
the odd unto the right lide, and men unto the left.

which either good or ill is fully repaid.
Nothing can, or (hall content my fou!,
'Til!
am rvemJ nith him wife for wife. Sbukef.

1 (hall

Evenha'nded.

Let him tell me whether the number of the ftars be
men or odd.
T.tyl<.r's Rule of living hcly.
What verity there is in that numeral conceit in

1.

of evening,

Since you refined the notion, and corrcfted the

not odd.

2.

A term of conceflion.
malignity,

¥cpe.

[from the noun.j

Diyden.

Eventi'de. »./. fw^and/zV/f.] The time

even the

Addijon's Speaaior,

9. Capable to be divided into equal parts

a.

as,

even to thofe who are verfed in critical learning.

Defirts compos'd, aft'eftions ever tv'n.
Tears that deliglit, and fighs that waft to heav'n.

-v.

Taylor..

the clofe of the day.

Dryden,

not fubjedt to elevation or deprcffion ; not uncertain.

Hr'^tvn's yulgar Errcurs.

A word of exaggeration in which a fe-

I have made feveral difcoveries which appear new,

;

To Even.

I he evening;

He tun'd his notes both evenfong and morn.

Nor death itfclf can wholly wa(h your (lams.
But long couuaded filth ev'n in the foul remains.

Alterkury.

8.

hour bcfoie the lime.
«.

great, that is, the great like the mean.

Addijcn.

The true reafon of this fttange doflrine was to be
«VM with the magiilrate, who was ag.iinft them ;

Aiteriury.

«./. [e^jen and feme.].
I. 1 he form of worfliip ufed in the evening,.
Thee, 'chantrcfs of the woods among,
I woo to hear thy cvenfohg.
Milton.
If a man were but of a day's life, it is well if he
lafts 'till evenfong, and then fays his complinj an

Svjifi.

cret comparifon is implied ;

n

S&utb.
The publick it always eitm with an authour who
has not a juft deference for them : the contempt

nr/s of mind.

E'vENSoNC.

to «ur thoughts that

change.

out of debt.

;

Calmnefs; freedom from perturbation.
Though he appeared to reliili thefe bleffings as
much as any mnn, yet he bore the lofs of them,
when it happened, with great compofure and eira-.

Here all their rage, and ev'n their murmurs ceafe.

7. Without any thing owed, either good or

6.

Likewife ; not only fo, but alfo.
The motions of all the lights of heaven might

company does to our converfation, without h>ading
our memories, or making us even (cnlible of the

Hooker.

5.

Impartiality; equ.nl rcfpet't.

DrydcK.

And facted filence reigns, and univerfal peace. Pope:
4. So much as.

not favouring

evennefs be-

tween both.

great lights are fufScient, and ferve alfo to meafure
even the motions of thofe others.
Holder.

either.
Upheld by me, yet once more he Ihall (land
On t^ifn ground againft his mortal foe.
Milton.

ill

A

itfelf a; the length in a middle (late
of

Alter.

_

Freedom from inclination to cither fide.
crooked (tick is not llraitned, unlefs it be bent
as far on the clear contrary fide, that fo it may fettle

afford meafurcs of time, if we could number them
;
but moft of thofe motions are not evident, and the

the other parts lay flat and even.
lyavies.

C Equal on both fides

4.

Notwithftanding ; though it was fo that.
All I can fay for thofe palfages is, tliat 1 knew
them.

Equality of furface ; equal refpeft.

3.

they were bad enough to plcafe even when I wrote

When Alexander deounded of one what was the

the middle,

Grevj's Cofmologia Sacra,

after

;

if

fomc princes have done, in catching moles.
;

Carr>- his honours even,

litteft feat

of the cclertial bodies, and the making them with
that evennefs and celerity is requifite in them all.

He miglit even as well have employed his time, as

He was

5.

much that the good man ventures

State of being even.
Uniformity; regularity.
The ether moft leadily yicldeth to the revolution!

1

2.

as much as unfpeakable and eternal happinefs is bet
ter than extreme and endlefs mifery.
Tillcifon.

nor

leaning to any fide.

A noble fervant to them

Shakefpeare' s MjcLelh,

there be no God, he is as-well as the
but if there be a God, is infinitely better, nten

life,

bad ;

Luke, xlx. 44.
4..

EVenjjess. »./. [fromfiw.]

Dang'rous rocks,
Which, touching but my gentle vclTel'i fide.
Would fcattcr all the fpices on the ftream.
And, in a word, yea even now worth this,
And now worth nothing.
Sbak,/.

equal to "tfelf.

;

EVE

.Eww to Cato's wi(h ; not fierce, and terrlMe

ftillow foever, do a little vary the thlcknefs of the
pl'Tle.
Neivton't Of ticks.

lirerelu<.i,d.

impartially; without favour or enmity.
You ferve a great and gracious mailer, and llicrc
is a mr<il hopelul young prince :
it behoves you to
tarry y<nirfc)l wifcly »n4 evenly between them both.

Macon's A4vi(t to I'illitii,

I.

adi'.

Boyle..

[xppe, Saxon.]

At any time.
Men know by this time, if ever ihey will know,,
whether it be good or

evil vvhich hath

been lb long,
Hooker..
thou haft that, which I have greater realWn tn.
believe now than ever, 1 mean valour, this might

retained.
If

(hew it.

Sb.sktffcan..

You ferve a m der who it as free from the envy of
fliuila.

i.if.iti

any king WM.

Uucun..

EVE

EVE

To hall the profit half the fame.

never felt fo delicious a pie ifure as a clear confcience.
8.

Sbakrfpfare.

Riches endtefs is as poor as Winter,
To him that ever fears he (hall be poor, Shak/fp.
Blinded greatnefs, ever in turmoil.
Darnel.
Still feelcing happy life, makes life a toil.
There under ebon Ihades, and low-brow 'd rocks.
Milton.
In dark Cimmerian defart ever dwell.
The inclinations of the people mud ever have a
Temfle.
great influence.
He fhall.i'fi- love, and always be
Dryd'en.
Tlie- fubjeft of my fcorn and cruelty.
Mankind is ever the fame, and nothing loft out of
Dryden.
nature, though every thing is altered.
Ever fince that time L^fander has been at the

-

I

^atler.

houfe.

Unto the ground (he caft her modcd eye
And ever and anon, with rofy red,
The baihful blood her fnowy cheeks did dye.

6. In any degree.
Let no man fear that harmful creature ever the
bccaufc he fees the apolUe fafe from that
lefs,
Hall.
For a mine undifcovered, neither the owner cf the
ground or any body elle are ever the richer. CnUier.
It luffices to the unity of any idea, that it be confidered as one reprefcnlation or pi^urc, though made
Locke.
up ol ever fo many particulars.
There muft be fomewhere fuch a rank as man:
And all the queftion, wrangle e'er fo long,
Pope.
I1 only this. It God has plac'd him wrong
poifon.

this fenfc

it

is

Evero'pen. adj. [ever Anii open.]

A monument, and plant it round with (hade

ing over our afiions, and has an everopen ear to all
our words.
Taylor,

God is the great eye of the world, always watch-

Everplea'sing.

little farther for

Sidneyi

ufed.

Always held in honour or efteem.

The foundation of this principle is totally etvr/ri/

Mcntcsan everhonour'd name, of old
High in UlylTcs' focial lift enroU'd. Pi-fe's Odyffey.
Everla'sting. adj. [ever znA lajiing.]

Lading or enduring without end;

by the ingenious commentator upon ioHnaterial be-

Plac'd at the helm he fat, and mark'd the (kies.
'

plural fignification.

eternal

He propoled unto God their neceflities, and they
their own rcquclts lor relief in every ot ihcm.

All the congregation are holy, every one of them.

Num. xvi.
The King madethis ordonnance, that every twelve

Pfalm xc. 2.
in God through the knowledge which is

had of us, and the love wiiich

is

procefs is valid, if the jurifdidlion of the judge
not yet everted AViA overthrown.
Ayliffe.

Nor clos'd in (Iccp his evertvatch/ul eyes. Pope*
E'vERY. adj. in old language f^fne/J', that
is ever each; spep ealc, Saxon.]
I. Each one of all.
Everj has therefore no

From ever/a/iing to everla/ling thou art God.

trott cvirlajiing,

Tode-

Always vigilant.

duration whether ^jaft or future.

We are

Latin.]

EvERW ATCHFUL. adj. [ever 3Bd ivatchfiil.]

though not fo properly.
Paternity;

[everto,

A

is

It is ufed of pad as well as future eterni-

n. /.

Evert. -u. a.

ftroy ; to overthrow.

Therefore our everlafting farewell take :
Shake/.
For ever, and for ever, tarcwcll, C'alBus.
The everlajiing lite, both of body and Ibul, in that
been
blifs
or
woe,
hath
future ftate, »vhether in
Hammond,
added.
And what a trifle is a moment's breath.
Denbam.
Laid in the fcalc with everla/ling death

ty,

Gianville,

ings.

•Ta

per-

petual ; immortal ; eternal.
Whether v^e ft).ill meet again, I know not;

Everla'sting.

me.

The winds to Marathon the virgin bore.
Pope*
To Eve'rsf. v. a. [everjus, Latin.] To
overthrow; to.fubvert; todeftroy. Wot

!

That ever this fellow (hould have fewer words
than a parrot, and yet the fon ol a woman. Sbaktf.
They brake all their hones in pieces, or tver they
Dun, iv, z.^.
came at the bottom of the den.
That purfc in your hand, has a twin-broiher, is as
like him asfT'frhe can look. Dryden' tSpanifli fry.

[ever z.vA fieaftng.'\

Forfaking Sheria's everpleafng (hore,

Ev ERHONOURED. ad/, [ever and honoured.

2.

adj.

Delighting at all times; never ceafing to
give pleafure.
The everpleafing Pamela was content to urge a

Evelyn.
1 find
you are againft filling an Englilh garden
Addi/on's Speliater.
with evergreens.

fa-

Never

clofed ; not at any time fhut.

perate.

;

miliar language.

As >oou me'er the bird is dcaif^

Ver-

{ever inii^ green,]

dant throughout the year.
There will 1 build him

Some of the hardieft evergreens ma;> be tranfplanted, efpecially if the weather be moill and tem-

that is,
had done it
he had done it. In

fcarcely ufed but in

Religion prefers thofc pleafures which flow froiA
the preience of God for evermore , infinitely before
the tranfilory pleafures of this world,
billot/on,

verdure through all the feafons.

A word of enforcement, or aggravation,

lignified origi-

It govern 'd was, and guided evermore,
7"hrough wifdom of a matron grave and hoare.
Fairy ^epi.
Sparks by nature evermore afpire,
Wliich makes them now to fuch a highnefs flee.
Davies*

E'vERGREEN. »./. A plant that retains its

.'

it

ftriftly preferved.

and during.]

-Ot laurel, evergreen, and branching palm. Milton.
The juice, when in greater plenty than can be

i.

unlefs

henceforward ; but this fenfe has not been
Milton.

!

I

.He lay (Iretch'd along.
And ever and anon a iilent tear
Stole down and trickled from his hoary beard. DrjJ.

More feems an expletive acci-

dentally added,

Raleigh.
.Heav'n open'd wide
Her everduritjg gates, harmonious found
On golden hinges moving. Milten's Paradife Loji.

L'E^rtiKgc,

immediately after

eternally.

ledge to contemplate {he everduring glory and term-

and calling them (tarveliiigs.

/ocn as ever he

Evermo're. adv. [ever and ?nore.] Always;

exhaled by the fun, renders the plant evergreen
Arbuthnot on Aliments.

F.iiiy ^uee/r.

Raleigh.

of nothing elfe than the wifdom and (kill of a powerful everliving agent.
Nevttai,

lefs joy.

The fat one's would be ever and anon, making

exercifed for evermore, as the ever/iving

The inftindl of brutes and iiifefts can be the cfift

Eternal ; enduring without end.
Our fouls, piercing through the impurity of flefh,
behold the higheft heavens, and thence bring know-

Evercre'en. «i^'.

is

fubjedls of his reward and puniftiment.

nally yrsw this time : as, evermore, alviiyt,

With eierburniftg fulphur unconfum'd

At one time, as e^vr and anon ; that is,
at one tinie and another ; now and then.
So long as Guyonwiih her communed,

jtfj

other,

[ever and burning.']

[e'ver

Fairy ^.

Hooker.
God's juftice in the one, and his goodnefs in the

Torture without end
Still ui^es, and a fiery deluge, fed

adj.

I

In that he is man, he received life from the Fa«
ther, as from the fountain of that evej-living Deity.

Spenfer.

A. PtUHps.
It is fometimes reduplicated.
Shake/.
J*'or ever jindjor eter, hKwcU-, Caflius.
I know a lord, who values no leafe, though for a
thoufand years, nor any eftate that is not Jor ever
Temple,
and ever,
The meeting points the fatal lock diiTever
Pope.
From the fair headier rver undjor ever.

•J.

With burning liars and everliving^actA

His tail wJs ftretched out in wond'rous length,
That to the houfe of heavenly gods it raught
And with eiitorted power and borrow'd ftrength,
The everburning lamps from thence it brought.

And there becrown'd, or give him up for ever.

-

Is notfrom hence the way, that leadeth right

To that mod glorious houfe, that glift'reth bright

Panting murmurs, ftiU'd out of her breafl-.
Crajhav/.
That e'verbubbltng fpring.

:

ffort with the lean,

ceflant.

Boiling Up with perpetual murmers.

Everdu'ring.

Donne.

ing without end ; immortal; eternal ; vai»

Unextinguiflied.

fome are bees, delighted with flowers and their
fweetnefs; others beetles, dcHghted with other kinds
of viands; which, having ejijoycd for a feafon, they
Locke.
(eafe to be, and exitt no moreJOi- ever.
We'll to the lerople there you'll find your fon ;

J.

Did fet.

EvERLi'viNC. (7(//. [ever i.Ti^ living.] Liv-

the following inftances
EveRbu'bbling. adj. [e'verani Bubbling.]

Men are like a company of poor infcils, whereof

'

Since both this lower world's and the fun'i fun.

of always : as, e^^ergreeii, green
throughout the year; eterduring, enduring without end.
It is added almoft arbitrarily to neutral participles and adjectives, and will be fufficiently explained by

Cremona now (hall ever boaft thy name,
Tope,
As next in place to Mantua, next in fame.
Eternally ; to perpetuity.
3. For ever.

me fooncr to confeft,

Than to confider that a year is run

fenfe

Immortal Vida! on whofe honour'd brow

i|.

Nothing could make

That this world had an everla/iingne/s,

9. It is often contrafted into e'er.
10. It is much ufed in compofition in the

The poets bays and critick's ivy grow,

[dom everlafi^

duration.

Shakejpear't Henry IV

Everbu'rning, adj.

n, /,

Eternity; perpetuity; an indefinite

ing.]

am old, I am old.

boy of them all.

Svii/i,

lous.

Everlastingness.

—I love thee better than llove^'ri- a ("curvy young

Hr>oker.

may ferve long, but not ferve ever.

EvFR A. Any: \i.%every, that is, even
ich or ever each is each one, all.] This
word is ftill retained in the Scottilh dialed.

l/)ch.
come by the idea of eternity.
2. At all times; always; without end.
Cod hath had ever^ and ever Ihall have, feme
I fee things

Eternally ; without end.
I'W hAic Wim everla/lifTglyt
That bids me be of comfort any more.
Sbake/h.
Many have made themfelves everla/tingly ridicu-

Addifon on Italy.

folk.

Tillotfin.

church vifible upon the earth.

Prior.

The title of duke had been -funk in the family
ever, fince the attainder of the great Duke of Suf-

The molt Tenfuil man thji mer was in the world
By repeating any idea of any length of time, as ol a
minute, a year, or an age, as often as we will in our
own thoughts, and adding lliem toone another, without evfr coming to the end of fuch addition, we

E V E
Everi.a'stINOIV. adv. [from evtrlafiirig.1

opening again, he lays his claim

So few tnafl<lions dtfcrve praife, thit ! fttrcc
Dcuham,
rtvr faw any whicli Jcl'cn'cd pardun,

borne towards us,
linker.

years ibcre iiwuld be (cut forth two ihips.
,

Bacon.

The

E V

E V I

I
The Tirhie »nd force of cvirj of (fiefe three Is
"'"*.^ly ^'ay=«l-

Hummond's Fundamtnlah.

Ariftotle h.islong fince obliivcd,

»We tt 1$ to eipeft the b.

he can repeat that idea, and, joining it to the former,

To fwear he faw three inches through a

Locke.

place.

The

death

i

Ill (end myfon abroad,

mm Irom vim, which

!''"'""'""'* >« ^'W.we./bjrgood

how is it poflible to Icccp

is every.iuiire fo in fafliioa

ceed nothing to evidence them.

'Tisno-wheretobcfound, orroiry-tuirrf Pc/.e
*^yi*:roVi^c.<7jj. [e^er and jo»vg.]
Noi
fubjeft to old age, or decaying
:

•2.

fivESDRoFPER. „. /. {e^e, vitiA Jrotpef.]
Some mean fellow that flculks about
a
houfe in the night to liften.
What makes you liftening tliere ? Get farther

I preach not to thee, Uiou
wicked evcfdropper.

rt,v

f,

.

""'

neiThbi'.r '"v''?''''

•r.Evi'CT. ..a.
1.

r..v>«,

.

3.

I.

Zm

Is thine eye evil,

.

youTh!
3.

Pjaln,s.

^'^'i-/-^- '7'^'-

Unhappy

EviLMiNDED

"

"''

1I-y bear n,ide.c. V> ^

•

is 'vil

Malih

unfitnef,

a crimt-.
'he jfgioni

Injury;

Uak.;,.earc' , Macbeth.
'

oiifchief.

^^J'^^

parl'd'ot hIsTot'
-

ndV be r. 'hZ:-

Inall

we receive gopd

we not receive tiiV?

biafeil!'"^'"

at

'^'''''^

^'''t'" of Mankind.

cenfo-

rioufnefs.
Wherefore laying afide all
malice and all guile,
and hypocrilies and envies,
and

Evii.wt'sHiNc.<7^-, fw7and,t.;^..]
;

'n-"-/

thehandof Cod, ,ind

y

,

""^ '""'"''' '""^ ""'''' "^ h^:

going out. in a coun

minds towards him

who does wickednefs.
Beware of dogs, beware of
7-«

Wi(h-

having no good will.

rhey heard of this fuddeii
try full of evilu.iy7sing

3. Malignity; corrvption
The heart of the fonsof men is full
of«v7. FccleC
4. Misfortune; cahmity.
Shjjl

moral or naTuf i
the verge of a bnital faculty.

€•„,,.„..,
Evii.3pe'ak,nc. n.f.
[«.//and^.„to^.J
Zander; defamation; calumny;

•^'^%" "-"^/-

'"' ""'' """'*

coi.?ruity, or evilnef,

,nd unfeafon.bienef, of

ailioos, falls not within

mg evil to

^~'''

„.f [fro^ ,.,,./ 1 Contf^lT;

.11 evilfpeaking,

come a devil nvortdamnM
!

in wait.

their hidden hale.

to goodnefs
badnefs of whatever kind.
;
\he mora gooJncf. and

arc r-.ll.

£2<'""'J'y contraOcd to ilL]"'
'^°'

I,

travelling fo late.

from hi^

""' *" W/beafthath devoured

'"''''"

)^A«, -^

But moft Ihe fcat'd, that

E'y.,.NEs..

'"
Of horrida hell
u „
can

notoriety.

UcTe

Shaken,.

«^-.

And, wiihout witnefs, wreak

mifcrable ; calamitous.
And the officers did fee that they were
in eviluh.

him."

'

2.

-

Not well,

freeze up their zeal.

[^x.y/and«/W.] Mamifchicvous ; malignant ; wick-

licious

;

In „,/, to top Ma _be,h

Caro major, who hid borne
all
^reaT'X'
"'
h« lett u, an rvUeree, urfd-r Im ,he
o^/", nd ho
much he was »erled in country affairs.

[from rt;,/.]

^°''"'^^y

Some eie: minded beafts might lie

becaufc I am jood }

""•^"'"'°" "' °""'' '•"«

I't

delivered .he ruide^re
of the purchafe unto
Baruch.
la'ruch^
Unreafonable it is .0 eipcS the
fame kind of IZlt
'" '"^ "''"^' *'"-•''
have for 'Cc

W-

[from

any bullock,
or flieep, wherein is blemilh,
or any evil/avowed.

corrupt.

All the day. of the amirted

^'^"^'•

Jellimony; proof.

/.

Thou Ihalt not facrifice unto the Lord

ed ; infidious.

Wicked; bad;

2.

"'f

indubitable certainty;

;,.

Deformity.

he good tig's very good,
and the evil very evil,

g^^.^^

E'VipENCE.1./. [French.]

evilfalomei

"\

p

pf",'fZ
4. -Mifchiev^pus; dcrtruftive;
ravenoul

"

1

good afpeft.

Mach,a«l well noteth, though in an

'""n, Ihall cool the hearts
nr
Ut all.,'l"^*'
hi, people, and

^'""u'-'
1. WicKednefs;

oi7.

.

u^n a virtio.

Little ufetL

Proof; evidence; certain
teftimony.'

Peter.

"" ""'^'"S '" 'he force of nature,
r".?r,".'K
except
It be corroborated by
culbm. bacon- i Eirays.

Prior

""" ^'" (lif^vered in

r.v.7.o«ordirpo(rdlioil.

2.

God.

[^..,7

;

that he heth, he (hall
rif. up „. more.

lltnZ

2.

VVhereas ihey fpeak evil againft you
as evildoer,,
they may by your good works
.lorifv

adj.
and >T.^«n
Awi Evilfa'voured.
countenanced having no

Dutch.
Having bad qualities of any
kind ; not
good.
He hath brought up .n.«/i/,ume

-fame',

however affirtcd; nor ita
-^Vll'^'"^"neceffity ev.Sled
by any cogent experiment.
Ciey^e
Eviction. »./. [from ^wV?.]
1. Difpoffeflion or
deprivation by a definitive fentence of a court
of judicature.
If any of the parties be laid
afleep under pretence
'"'' "",""'"
P"'Ho,hcau,ioufty
'

an*

brethren.

tviLDo'ER. »./. [rvil znA doer.]
Malefactor; one that commits crimes.

Davits on IreUxd.

To prove; to evince.

livJ.nirjT'l,''''!- ^r'

{e'vil and affeaed.\
not difpoled to kindnefs.

ill

ill

therefore thcv held it the
beft
policy toca,Uffthe yoke
•
of-Esglilh law.
I

;

" ''" «''•'* <"« of b'-'
Xr2\Z ^T''^
" " ""''""!> h-is the moit EVILFAVOURPDNESS.
iHeX?li
r"""'
eitenli»e
confeqiiencei.
Javoured.]

•t iheir pofTeffiin, and

« T" . I
»
Z, i.0 take away by fcntence of law.
His land, were eviaed from him.
K.

all

The unbelieving jews Ifirred up the Gentiles,

whenirtas

E Vn.._aJj [y^t\, Saxon ;.,«W,

courfe,

ufcd in compofidon to give a
to a word ; but in this, as
other cafes, it is in the modern

made their minds evilajfeilcd againft the

''"''•"' ''"'"

LatSf

JlodifpolTefs of by a judicial

faid,

Laying their eggs, they evidently
prove
The genial pow'r and full eftids
oflove

'^•

it.

's often

Not kind

was fufficient.

rcntly; certainly;
undeniably.

he drew.

vii.

EviLAFPt'cTED. adj.

'i^'--

E'viDBNTLr. ay*, [from «„V.»/.]

And almoftjoin'd the horn* of the lough eug,b.

Deul

J'
bad meaning

m

"-"'"" "• ^" '"«

«"</<« to U,em that no attention

I have referred

his houfe.

dialed generally contraaed to ///.

"fl^^kingconquells iipJn their

c:::fHturn..
Children minded not what was

favours the

A tree.

?•

and expli-

BroJnS V^h e"

n.f. [This word is fo writteT by'
moft writers ; but fince the
original ip,
Saxon, or WelOi^ru;*, more

At the firft Ilretch of both his h.indj

thv looks

the general frame of nature,
that
things moft maniteft unto
lenfe h..ve proved obfcure
unN, the underftanding.

jy^ei

thou me ? John, xviii. 2z.

not happilv; not fortunately.

;

It went <-!.// with

It is<^,^,7Tr, in

fuGH

iKhither.j

Not well

4. Injurioufly; not kindly.
The Egyptians evU entreated us, and afSifleJ
us.

Plain ; appa-

rent ; notorious.

C»EVE',TICATE. ^.a. \e^-,pgo, Lat.J To

caller orthography oijnv,

3.

f^"^''' Origin ofMankind.

I

,

fearch out.

elicited

-„
,.
!?/„.„
E
V D E NT. ^<7^.
[French. J

yoxr lunction
/*.,",''
funflion it is to
,
"-••"'"'"S your
r •'"""'•"g
c .y*""f
be difgutfed
like a Have, and an
e^-rfdrofper, under
the woman's windows.
Drydm; £,„. Sekaji

TV

If I have fpoken evil,
bear witnefs of the evil;

Tilktr^L

cated by the contemplation of
animals, yet they are
contemplation of man,

Oryden'iSpariJhfryar

,

Shak.

I

not inno-

ccntly.

more cleariy«„^«„^ i„ ,h,

off-

thy brother

virtuoully;

Mi/„n; p.,rjij, l,a

Although the fame truths be

Pope's Ody/T.

Shakefpeare's Macbeth.

but if well, why fmighteft

m^h be evidenced from texis.
Ti.'/okn
lo fhew to mnke difcovery of
Now alfo n,-ience.

Joys everysung, unmix'd with pain
or fear,
th-eternal year.

Not well; not

z.

of themfelves, thev

Thou on earth had'il profper'd. which

call'd the evil.

Ah, froward Clarence, evil it befeems
thee,

;

caying.

the kine's e^nl.

as,

lo flatter Henry, and forfake

t

unde-

1-iU Ihewidecirdeof

.

Temple

If they be principles evident

I IS

Not well in whatever refpecl.

I

»eftImonies

.„ have
T"" been bred in Ireland.
to

?

dlfeafe :

;

Whafs the difeafe he means ?

E viL. ad'v. [commonly contrafted to »//.]

/« tiViDENCE. -F. a. [from the
noun.]
I. To prove ; to evince.

nery.tcBere it could not be enl»mbed
:
it is not
n,ery.-u,bere now, bei ng eial ted
nto heaven. H^ier.

L' EJirangt,

1

•

T^
Malady

—

lumes of vifible natwe, and the
everlafting tables of
Bemley.
'fr"^""-

fubftancelof thebodyofChrift wasnot
i-uery.
vbere feen, nor did it e'jery:^viere
•

•;

.'"'' " »hat is apt to produce or increafe
any
pain, or diminifh any pleafure
in us ; or clfe to pro.
".' ',"^ ""''• "'
^"''f'^'''^P"" "^ of •'"y good-

5.

door.

As Afiatick cvidrxm Avore.
Dryden's Juvenal.
1 here are books extant, which they mull
needs
allowof as proper fW.-«,; even
the might>- vo-

And broken lightnings flaih from^x.'>j,cIoud. Pope.
X. EvERy.wHERE. In all places;
in each

fuffer

p

this fenfe it is

Tilloifon.

-

Witnefs; one that gives evidence.
In
fometimes plural ; as, the
evidence -Mre fworn: but fometimes
regularly augmented, as eviJevces.

3.

Every OM, that has an idea of a foot, finds that

From pole to pole the thunder roan aloud.

If we will ftand boggling at
ini.iginary tvili. Ie
us, never blame a
horfe for ftarting at a Ihadow.
«

Mdifm

how unreafon-

e kind of proof for rvery
thing, which we have for fome things.

make the idea of two feet.

EV I

Chrillianlty, the truth of
which hiftory was their
motive to embrace Chriftianity.

EVINCE. ^. a.

evil-ivorkers.

[en,i„co,

l^tin.]

prove; tolhew; to
manifeft ;
evident.

Douht not but that fin
Will reign amoug Uiem
of Uiee begot
.

w

I'Zy
^»«

J

to

fH/

To
make

EUR

E VO
And thcierort was l.iw given thjm to nlgf*
Miiion't Paradift Lefl.
Their naturil piavtty.
That religion, tcuchin; a future ftatc at foult, is

'

a probability ; and tlut its contrary catiaot, with
equal pcobabilitv, be provcdf we \\v>ievinc<d,SiiMtb,^
The greater abiurjitics are, tlic more llrongly they
evince the tallity ot' that fuppofitioa from whence
Atlrr,
they flow.

Evi'ncible. ai^'. [Jtom e-jinct.1
of proof; demonrtrable.

Capable

not hisfubftantial exiltcnce, yet his energy,

To Evo'lvs. "j, a.

Ambniftal odours

the entrails; to fearch within the entrails.

Evulca'tion. »./. [fxa/^5,' Latin.]

The feries of things unrolled or unfolded.

Ewe. n.f. [eope, Saxon.]

z.

The whole evolution of ages, from everlalting to

geometry.] The equable etiolation
of the periphery of a circle, or any other
curve, is fuch a gradual approach of the
circumference to reftitude, as that all its

3. [In

parts

To

Therein (he doth rvilale and (bun

meet

together,

and

Evita'tion. a./, [from n-itate.] The ad
of avoiding.

Duration not infinitely, but indefi-

nitely long.

Praife ;

;

Many brave young minds have oftentimes, through
hearing the praifes and famous euloglts of worthy
men, been ftitrcd up to alfeiit the like commendaSp€»fer on JreUnd.
tions.

more melody in difharmony of the angelic quires

If fome men's ap.ietites find

cord, than in the

jet even thcfe fclJom mils to be affeOed with eulo.
Decay of Fitly,
gUs given ihemfctves.

E'UNUCH. »./.

[ImnyJ^.}

Shakefptart't Henry VI.

it an tunitcb.

by the ancients, that much
•f Venus doth dim the fight ; and yet eunuchs^
which are unable to ge.icrate, are nevcrthelefs alio
Bacon't Nal. liiji.
4imf^hted.
So charm'd you were, you causM awhile to doat
On non(<:nfe gargPd in an tunuc-b's throat, yinton,
It hath been obferved

Eu'nbchate. f. a.

To make an eu-

nuch.
an impolTible aft to tunuchatt or caftrate
Hroiun's fuhar Errturt,

Ihemfelvei.

The

Evoca'tioh. u./. [e-vocaiio, Latin.]
ii\ of calling out.

Mato, that knowledge were but remembrance, that
intclleftual acquifition were but tcminifccntial evoBrottin.

tailon.

Inftead of a defcent into liell, it fccms rather a
(onjuring up, or an tmealion of the dead from bell.
Nolfs to OJiffey.

Evola'tiok. n

f. \tveio,
aft of flying away.
1'.

Latin,]

a. {evol-vo, Latin.]

The

unfold ; to difentangle.

The animal foul f)oncr expands and c-jolvet itfelf

k its full orb and extent than the human foul. //.i/r.
This little active priacif Ic, u Uie bodj iB({Cilfc(b^

A veffel in which water is

I dreamt of a (ilver

ba(on and ewer to-night Sb»

And fay, viil't pleafe your lordOiipcool your hand:.
khmktfptartt

Harris,

Harris,
[In .ilgebra.J

The golden ener a maid obfecjuious brings
Replenilli'd from the cool, tranllucent fprings;

With copious water the bright vafc fupplies.

A (liver laver, of capacious lize
They wafli.

fope's OJyJfef.

E'wRY. n. f, [from Mfer.] An office in ;ke
king's houfliold, where they take cart of
the linen for the king's table, lay the
'

Extrafting of roots from any given power, being the reverfeof involution. Harris.

Evomi'tion, n. f. [e-vomo, Latin.] The aft
of vomiting out.

Diil.

Eu'patoRY. »./. [eiifatorium.} A plant.
Eufno'NiCAL. adj, iftom m/il/oa)-.] Sounding agreeably.

found ; the contrary to harlTinefs.

A plant.
It Iiath flowers

:

and

times prodiicing little alteniiion.

To EXACE'RBATE.
fin.]

Eufhu'rbium. »./.
1.

and ferve up water in filver e^en
after dinner.
DiS,
Ex. A Latin prepofition often prefixed to
compounded words fometiraes meaning
out, as exhaiiji, to draw out; fometimcs
only enforcing the meaning, and fomecloth,

/J;V?.

EUTHONY. n.f. [ivpunx] An agreeable

and is
milky juice.
The plants
are angular, and (haped fomewhat lilce the ccreus
fruit like the fpurge,

alfo full of an hot (harp

It is commonly bcfet with fplncs,
or torch-thilUe.
Miller.
and for the moll part hath no leaves.

It

has no great

fmell, but its talle is violently arcid

naufeous.
pifms.

and

It is ufed medicinally in fina-

Hill.

Eu'pHRASY. ». /. [^^/&r<7/7«, Latin.] The
herb eyebright ; a plant fuppofed to clear
the fight.
Then purg'd with euphrafy, and rue.
The vifual nerve; for he had much to fee;

And from tlie well of life three drops iuftill'd.

a.

[cxncerbo.

LatO'

Height of a difeafe paroxyfm.
The patient may Urivc, by little and little, to

z.

A

fmooth glofly furface.

-v.

To imbitter; to exafperate;

heighten any malignant quality.
Exacerba'tiom. n.f. [from (.xacerbatcl
I. Encreafe of malignity ; augmented force
or feverity.

gum refin, brought to us always in
drops or grains, of a bright yellow, between a ftraw and a gold colour, and a

;

ovcicome the fymptom in cxu.tiiAtion; and fo, by
time, turn futfcting into nature. Bacon's Nut. Hijt..
Watchfulncfs and delirium, and exiicriution,
every other day.
Arlutbnot on Diet..

Exacerva'i ION. n.f. [acervus, Latin.]
The .lit of heaping up.
ZJ;V?»

EX'ACT. adj.

[e.xaetiis,

Latin.]

Nice; not failing; not devi.iting from

1.

rule.
All this, rAT^^to rule, were brought about,

Were but in a combat in the iilh left out.
Pofe.
2. Methodical ; not negligently performed.
What if you and I enquire how money matters
(land between us ?
With all my heart 1 love exalt

—

dealing ; and let Hocus audit.

which blows between the Eaft and North,
and is very dangerous in the Mediterranean. It is of the nature of a whirlwind,
which falls fuddenly on fliips, makes them
tack about, and fomctimes caufes them to

Artuib. "John. Bull.
3. Careful; not negligent : ofperfons.
Many gentlemen turn out of the feats of their an«
oeftors, to make way for fuch new matters as have
been mote rac.in in their accounts than thonfelvcs.
Speaator,
4. Honeft ; drift; punfluaL
In my doings 1 wasfjra.f7.
Seclef. li. 19,

founder, as Pliny obferves,

Ta Ex ACT. 11. a, \e.-i:igo, exaBiis, Latin,]

EuRo'cLYDoN. », f. [iVjoxAuJlwi'.]

A wind

Calmet.

There arofc againd it a tcmpcduous wind called

To

water.]

brought for wafhing the hands.

at laft they

Milton.

Would truth difpenfe, we could be ctmtent with

est,

Another bear the evier ; a third a diaper

'till

Evolu'tion. of Pcnuers.

2.

He hath gelded the common wcaltk, and made

E'WER. n. J. [from eau, perhaps anciently^

becomes fucceffively a lefs arch of a re-

ter-marches, and wheelings.
5.

One that is

caftrated or emafculated.

Hade the facritice

equally

lutions are doubling of ranks or files, coun-

In all bodies there is an appetite of union and
Bacort.
ruilalioxt of folutiuo of continuity,

low La-

Rams have more wreathed horns than erves, Baan,
Sev'n bullocks yet unyok'd for Phabus chufe
And for Diana fcven unfpotted fwri. Drydn'i Su.

[In tafticks.J
The motion made by a
body of men in changing their pofture,
or form of drawing up.
And thcfe e^-o-

4.
-'

The Ihe-lhecp ;

the female to the ram.

Let one attend him with a lilvcr bafon
VuU of rofawater, and beHrew'd with flowers;

turn into a ftraight line.

A thoufand irreligious curfed hours.

Ti EVO'lVe.

do

The
X)»V9.

evolve or unbend ; fo that the fame line
ciprocally greater circle,

f,viTt'iitiAi..aJj. [^wV^rna/, Latin.] Eternalin a limited fenfe; of duration not
infinitely but indefinitely long.

aft of divulging ; publicatioi).

everlafting, is fo collectedly and prefentitically reprcfented t* God at once, as if all things which ever
were, are, or fliall be, were 4t this very indant
really preient.
Mori'iDivini Dialogues,

avoid ; to (hun ; to efcape.

Sibjkeffeare.

evuljion, or bitingoti' any parts. Brown' tl^u/g.Err^

.

Of divers things
being sot tvUahic, wc
take one ; which one, faving only in cafe of fo great
Hooker,
urgency, were not otherwife to be taken.

Which forced marriage would have brought upon her,

The adl

of plucking out.
From a ftri£t enquiry we cannot maintain Hie

bodies was preceded by a!mal\ innumerable rvolu.
which were fo v.\rious, that the little bodies
came toobvbrt to each other ihofe parts by which
they might be bcft fallencd together.
Bayle.

all

^oYJWlTATE.-v.a. {e'vito, Latin.]

wilb of my friends is mihuAriutlmoi,

Evu'lsion. n.f. [evttlfio, Latin.]

lions,

that may be efcapcd ot fliunned.

Eu'logy. n,/. [su and Aoyo®-.]
encomium panegyrick.

poflible : the kindelt
tiajia.

The aft of unrolling or unfolding.

E'viTABLE. (7:?^. [ez-itahilir, Latin.] Avoid-

It were

Priori

Evolu'tion, »,/. [e-volutus, Latin.]

Halt.

[t£^iier»itas,

'

A recovery, in my cafe, and at my age, is im«

.

The holy ground is wet with lieavjniy dews.

;

EviTE'RNiry. n./.

E'i;)iyTHMY. n./. [i«»i/.V®'-] Harmony,
regular
^ar and fymmetrical meafure,
"
|-|<-^<.<ri.] Anfafy
EVTHJyj'SJ.i.
fHJ\J'SU.\»._
1 «./. :"'
death.
EtJTHA.NA'sY.
J

The fpontaneous coagulation of the little faline

Evi'ncibly. adv. [from ruincibleJ]
In
fuch a manner as to force cionviflton.
7ff E'viRATE. I,-. «. ^ e-^rirasiis , hi.iin.']
To
deprive of manhood ; to emafculate.
To Rvi'scERAri, t.\ a. [fvi/cen, Latin.]
To embowel ; to draw to deprive of

Ttf

To open itfelf; to dif-

Does round the air evo/vine fccnts diflufir.;

Implanted lntlia£ts in brutes are ia themfi^lve;
and ufelul to their eiiJ?, and

tin.]

if

//j/*.

clofe itfelf.

I.

rvineiiic by true reafon to be fuch.

evil,

and expainjetb,

ani! dilateth, tvtivtib, diltufeih,

liishly rcafonable

able ;

E X A

euroilydon,

Alfs, xxvii. 14.

EU'RUS. n.f. [Latin.] The Eail wind.
Eurui, as all oiher winds, mull be drawn with
blown cheeks, viiigs upon his Ihouldcrs, and his
£eecham.
Itody lUc coivU 01 the uwny mooo.

I .

To require authoritatively..
Thou now exaEl'Ji the penalty.
Which is a pound of hij poor merchant's 9efh,
Sbahef..

Of A fcreigacf t)iOU taA>ft exaB it agaiu ; bu:

rtnJ wWcfi

In wit, as nature,

U thine with thy brother, iWn* kanJ
r<y/»r.

From us his foes proiioimc'i glory he exaas.
Miilan.

Addijon.

ners

reafon the fibres are harder. Arbulhnot on Alimcnlu
With chymick art«.i/(i the mineral pow'rs,
And draws the aromatick fouls of flow'rs. Prfe,
They meditate whether the virtues of tl« one"
will exalt or

;

K. CbarUt.
They think that their txtlhiffi in one duty will
Ritgcr!.

atone for their neglcift of another.

And

tin.]
In the great level near Thorny, feveral oaks and
(land in firm earth below the moor, and have
lain there hundreds of years, ftill covered by the
frtlh aud fait waters and moorilh e«rth exjggcraied

Dmhdm's Sophy.

To Exa'ct. i: ». To praftice extortion.
The enemy (hall not txnel upon him.

and fevcrity.
The poller and rxaBer 'of fees juftifJes the common relemblance of the courts of juTiiee to the bufli,
whereunto while the (heep flies for defence in
leather, he is fore to lofe part of the fleece.
Bacon'! Efjys.
I will alfo make thy officers peace, and ihine

to en-

A

ExAGCERA'Tlo^f. ti.f.

[itotn cxa^gtralf.'^

The aft of heaping together; an heap;

1.

an accumulation.
Some towns that were anciently havens ind ports,
arc now, by exj^rrj/i6ff of fand between thcfe towns
and the fea, converted into firm land.

//aijA, U. 17.

He that demands by authority.

Light and lewd perfons, efpecially that the txjfttr
of the oath did neither ofe eihorutioo, nor examin-

Halc'i Origin cf Mankind.

KiirgChjrltt.

conttitulions.

^itrigid txjcler of (Irirt demonlbation for things
lilUlfon.
• hich are not capable of it.
Exa'ctios. w. /. [from exaaj]
ff. The aft of makmg an authoritative de-

mand, or levying by force.

Latin.
This their defed and impeffeftion I had rather
Hxitr.
lament in fuch Cafe than exagitate.

Exat{ him that

by Irilh exallhni and opprellioni ; fo
Uit earl did at bit ruin it by the like
Davits 's Statr of ireland,

tlie

A tribute feverely levied.
llicy have not made bridges over the river for
the convenience of their fubjeCls as well at llrangen,
\Ma pay an unreafonalile exaHion at every ferry
upon the tr.utuliTig oi ihc waters. AdjiJ(jn on Ituly.

Exa'cti.y. /7</i'. rfrom«-«<7.] Accurately;
nicely ; thoroughly.
B<itli uf 'em knew mankind fXjSlly well ; for both
Drydtn.
of "cm Sfjinn that fhidy in tlicmiclves.
is fuch, that the more
'i hr rciigion they profefs
rxtilly it ik fitted by pure unbialTcd reafon, the more

Accuracy; nicety;

llrift

conformity to

rule or fymraetry.

If'ndvtrd »n i'rJpU. \

and abafc him that is
Exjk.

Pf.

liil.

i^luincy,
body.
Dignity of a planet in which Its powtrs
_

tell

us, that

the fun receives his ex,

Dryden,
_

_

Exa'mkn.w./. [Latin.] Examination j djf»
quifition ; enquiry.
Iliis conlidcrcd togeiher with 4 ftiifl account, and
critical ex.imrn oi rrarou, will alfo diftradt the witty
Brovn'i Vulgar Err^
dcicrminations of alliology,

Ex'aminate.

n.f. [examinatui, Latin.]

h.iving

Topraife; to extol; to magnify,
name together.

PJat. iiiiv. j.

5. To raife up in oppofition; a fcrjptural

phrafc.
Againd whom haft thou exalted thy Toice, and
lift up thin: eyes on

To intend

high >

t Kings, xix.ia,

to enforce.
Now Marj, flie faid,. let fame exalt her voice
;

Nor let th/ lonij iclU osily bt hw i.hon:e.
/

"

I have brotighthim foith, that, tha examinatim
bad, 1 might have fbmewhat to write. Ailt,xnv,t6,

thfTcrcnt
(kill,

men leaving out or pi:tting in fereral

Prior.

or oUiervaiioo of the fubjcS,

(iTencrs.

have dilferent
Locke,

Examiwa'tor. ti.f, [Latin.] An examiner;
an enquirer.

An inference, not of powrr to perfuade a ferious
examinator,

Broti'n't f'^ulgar Emurs,

To EXAMINE, v. a. [e.ramirro, Latin.]

To iry apcjfon accufed or fnfpeftcd by

I,

O magnify the I.otd with me, aiii let us exalt
his

experiment; accararc difquiution.

Cmpie ideas, according to their vsiious examination,

The covenanters, who urderftood llicirown want
of Itrength, were very reasonably exatt.-d with this
" fuccels.
Clarendon.
\ low much foever the king's friends ware dejcOei
palfmg
thofe
two
it
is
cerraiii,
afts,
they
upon the
who thj«^ht they (*ot whatfoevcr he loft were
iiviglttity exalted, and thought thenifclves no*^ fuihydenU Min, Ved.
pcrior to any uppoiition.
4..

B.icon,

peace.

ExAMiieA'TloK. «,/. \examinath, Latin.]
The aft of examining by queftions, or

».

To elevate to joy or confidence.

3,

6.

The experiments are all made with the utm*n|
0r<i -Ir'Ji and attsimfjiediun.

Raifmg a medicine to

a higher degree of virtue, or an increafo
of the moll remarkable property of any

Aa yet «j/r(/?.thou thyfelf againft my people,

Exa'ctniss. »./. [from rxaf}."]
I.

low,

Exodus^ ix. 17.
that thou wilt not let tlirm go i
How long Ihall mine enemy be exalted over me?

jilurbxry.

reafonable Itill it will be found,

is

high.

of

Girald

cxtorlioEis.

To elevate to power, wealth, or dignity.

i:"*. xlv. 9.

that houfc,

3.

Aad thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto
heaven, flialt be brought down t» hell. Afa/r. xi.lj.
I,

raife the grcatntfs

Svjift.

highelt exaltation.

4. [In pharmacy.]

In an ctarainuion where a freed fervant, wh»
power with Claudius, very faucily had a1moft all the wofdi, afked in fcorn one of the ex^jm
eminatii, who was likewile a freed fervant of Scribonianus; I pray, fir, if Scribonianus had been
emperor, what would you have done ? He anfwered
I would haT« flood behind his chair and held my

Shjkeff. Henry VIII.

firfl

ftate of greatnefi ordig.

nity,
1 wonder'd at my flight ardchartge
Milton 't Faradife Lojl^
To this high exaltation.
In God ill perfcdtions, in their higlieft degree aa4
Tillttfon,
exaltation, meet losether.
You are as much efleemed and as much beluved^
yois
were
in your
perhaps more dreaded than ever

Di^.
a^t of fhaking or agitating.
Td RXA'LT. -v. a. [exalie'r, French; alius,
fxaltt, low Latin.]
Latin
I. To raife on higlK

Remove violence and fpoil, and execute judgment
and juftiee; uke away ytnir txj&i-jnt from my
did

which caufe

The perfon examined.

They vent rcproaciics

earl

for

Exaoita'tion, »./. [from fxagitate,'] The

Mod bitterly on you, for putter-on

firft

to purfue with invedlives.

The fcnfe u now difufcd, being purely

Shakr/ftare.

.

Of tlicfe fxadhrit,

;

Elevated ftatc ;

J.

AOrolocers

;

If he Ihould breakhis dav, wliit fhould I gain

people.
As the

To reproach

2.

an humiliatioif of manhood ;

alljlian lii the lign .\t\t3.

Arburhn^t.

ITie grateful perfon being ftill the molt fevere
*Mn((-r ot himl'elt, not oijJyconfcfles, but proclaims
Scuih.
his debts.
There is no way to deal with this man of reafon,

B; the vjfl/i/i of llie forfeiture ?
J. Extortion; unjaft demand.

ter

are incrcafcd.

The warm air of the bed rxagilatet the blood.

'vigorous exjcJeri upon otlicrs, than fuch whofe pride
was f.wmefly leaft difpoTed to the obedience of lawful

the

there followed an exaltation of that which was humbled , for with power he created the world, but
Hocttry
redored it by obedience.

5.

To (hake; to put in motion.

1.

for

exaltation of lliofe that wcreopprciTed. fuditb, xvi. 8»The former was an humiliation of Deity, the lat.

Stvj/i,

found at Weltminller.

his demands,

N» men are prone to he greater tyrants, and more

lence.
She put off the garments of widowhood,

Exagg:raiiont o( the prodigious condefcenfions in
the priuce to pafs good laws, would have an oJl

One who i» fevere in hie injundlions or To Exa'citate. v. a. [rxa^ito, Latin.

5.

Elevation to power, dignity, or excel,

2.

Hyperbolical amplification.

2.

ing of them for taking thereof, were ealily fubonicd
litcon.
ID make an affidavit for money.

'

;

the fenfe the people generally had, e«n dcfpair of
Clarendon.
ever feeing an end of the calamities.
friend ixjggeralei z man's virtues, an enemy
Addifon's Sj-edaloi.
inflames his crimes.

due with outrage

_

To heighten by reprefentation

large by hyperbolical expreflions.
He had ex.iggiratid, as pathetically as he could,

Exa'cter. »./. [from ^jra<9.]
than
1. Extortioner; one who claims tnorc

fit<ifl(Tj righieoufnefs.

Hale,

upon them.
1.

Pf. IXXX. 2J.

his due, or claims his

Rofcom'rtftr^

Exalt a'tiok. n.f. [from fxelt.]
1. The aft of railing on high.

firs

my father's foul, fxaS

This cruel piety.

2.

To heap upon; to accumulate.

I.

Sicilian mufes, through thcfe happy plains.

Proclaim Saturnian times, eur own Apollo reigns,

fo EXA'GGERATE. v. a. \txaggero, La-

Txl us defcend now therefore from this top
Of CpecuUtion ; for the hour prccife
£xaHt our parting hence. Milun't Ptradlfc Lcfl.
Duty,
juftiee to

But hear, oh hear, in vihit exalted flrains,

before God.

,

H'dUtt

To elevate in diftion or fentiment.

8.

Smalridg!.

To furamon; to enjoin; to enforce.

diminiih the force of the other, or

correct any of its nocent qualities.

i

is
ceivei, they are lefs folicitous to make it when it

txaacJ.

to improve j to refitje by

The wild animals have more exercife, have thei#

preferred not the outward peace of my kingdoms
with men, before that inward cxaa»efs of confeience

Vcara of fervice paft.
Dryien.
From grateful fouls «>»,3 reward at laft,
Where ihey defign a rccompence for benefits re-

;

in chemiftr)'.

juices more elaborated tniexalted; butforthe fame

Regularity of conduft; ftriftnefs of mancare not to deviate.

2.

To demand of right.

fire, as

Six'!/'.

feveral fcalcs.

The hand of fate is over us, and Heaven

|.

To heighten

6.

not th' exjilnjioi peculiar parts s
'Tis not a lip, or eye, we beauty call
f<!ff.
Bui thejoint force, and full rcfult of all,
The balance mult be held by a third haiid, who
the
into
is to deal power svith the utmoft exaClnc/s

£«j/? af fcrvants to be faithW »nd dihgent.

ExdfiTj fefcrity from all our thoaghti,

what affefts oht heartj

Is

•"«*'•

fliill rcleifc.

t.

EX A

E X A

EX A

iatcrrogatorici.
Let ihcm rar.»iiii« themfclves whether they repent
Church. Cat.
If we tliis day he examined oi the good deed done
Ails, iv, 9.
to the impotent man.
We ou^ht, hcforr it be too l-^tc, to txamixe otir
fouls, and pmide ics fis^irity. IVaice's Prejiaration.

tliem truly.

t.

To interrogate a witncfs.
C/>m<nand bii occufcta to ocne unto thee, by
examining
t

4 U

lOMniViti of whom (hylclf mjy'lt
of »11 theic things.

t&e knowledge

ExA'NOVtouJ. adj. \exnngub, latin.] Hav-

1.

jf^'-

ing no blood; formed with animal juices,
not fanguineous.

2.

To tr>- the truth or falfehood of any pro-

3.

pofition.

To try by experiment, or obfervarion
narrowly fift ; fcan.
"To write what may fccurely ftmd the tell
Of being well read over ibrice a( lealV,
Compare each phrafe, examine cv'iy line.
Pope.
Weigh tv'ry word, and ev'ry thought refine.
5. To make enquiry into; to fearch into ;
to fcrutinife.

Brovm

guious.
terreftrial and
with plants.

found it had a near connexion

aijuatick,

^V

who fcrutinifes.
So mucli diligence is not altogether neceffary, but
it will promote ihc fuci;ef3 of the experiments, and
by a very fcrupulous txamh:er of things deferves to
Nc-wi. Oft.

be applied.

Exe'mplary. aJj.[Ugm example.'^ Serving
for example or pattern ; propofed to imitation.

We are. not of opinion that nature, in workitJg,
hath before her certain ixrmflary draughts or patterns, which fublirting in the bofom of the Highell,
and being thence difcovcreJ, Ihe fixeth her eye upon
,l,cm.

.

w.'/. {exemple,

EXA'i*/IPLE.

Hi.ikir.

-

-

French; txem-

plitm, Latin.]

Copy or pattern

;

thit which is propofed

to be refembled or imitated.
'V\\z example uni pattern of thofe his creatures he
Raleigh's Hijl<.<y.
_
beheld in all eternity.
2. Precedent ; former inftance of the like.
So hot a fpeed, with fuch advice difpos'd.

enchantmcnt by a counter-charm.
To Exca'rnate.i». a. \exza.iicamei, Lat.]
To clear, from flefh.
The fplecn is moll curidufly excarnaiej, and the

The grey morfl
Lifts her pale luftxe on the paler wretch,

Thmifon's Spring.
k. /,

[from exanimate.]

MiU„n
to be propofed as a pattern.

Acknowledge my Redeemer ever bieft

A perfon

fit

!

Tim.
Be ihou an example ai ihi: bdievers'.
^ _ i
the admonition of
5. One punilhed for
others.
Sodom and Gomorrah, giving themfelves o»er to
fornication, are f«t forth for an example,
the vengeance of eternal fire.

fuffering

tin.]

;

ta.']

Puftulous; efflorefcent; eruptive.
TE. -v. n. [exantlo, Latin.]

To exhauft

2.

which a

My rcaib)) is fiifficiently

convinced both ef the

truth and ufcfulncfi of his precepts :
ihat I have, at leaft in feme places,

it

is to

DrfJcn.

to his rulea.

To ExA'Mfi.E. t'. n. [from the noun.'
I. To exemplify ; to give an inftancce of.
The pnwf whereof 1 faw fuflicicntly exampUd in
Spen/tr't Stale of htl.
thofe late wars of Mimrter.
a.

To fet an example.
Do villaiav, do, fincc -fci ;ro<efi to do
Like warkmciv; \"Xexam^le jou with ihievenr.
SbaLejpeare.

Flat thecT, fome like hats, feme like buttons,
excavated in the middle.

aft of drawing out; exhauftion.

Exara'iion. »./. [ctaro, Lat.j

The ma-

nual aft of writing; the manner of maDicl.
nual writing.
Exarticula'tion. »./. [fx 7mdaiiicu!i/s,
,

Derbam's Pbyjico-Theolegj.

Excava'tign. »./. \ixom e.xcavhte.]

To take tlie widow,

To heighten a difference

2.

;

to aggravate;

to embitter.
Matters grew mon ex.'Jp^rate between the kings
of England and France, for the auxiliary lorcca of
French and Engliih were much blooded one againft
Baccn.

;

While our eye meafurcs the eminent and the hollowed parts 0! pillars, the total objedt appeareth tliebigger; and fo, as much as thofe exta^jaiiont do
fubilrail, is fupplied by a falUcy of the- fight
tVoilcn's Arciiiteltitrt,

anger; to make furious.
Exafperates, makes mad her filler Goneril. Skakcf.
The people of Italy, who run into politicks, having fom'':thing to exafperau them againll the king of
Addijtn.
France.

The aft of cutting into hollows,
The hollow formed the cavity.

I.

z.

Latin.] 'Ihe diilocation of a joint. Di/f.
•Fo EXA'SPERATE. -l: a. \exafpen, Latin.]». To provoke; to enrage ; to irritate ; to

To EXCE'ED. v. a. [excedo, Latin.]
1. To go beyond; to outgo.
Nor ilid any of the crufts much exceed \tiM an

Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth.
1 Kings,

To Exce'ed. f. a.
1. To go too far; to pafs tte bounds of fitnefs.
In your prayers, and places of religion, ufe reverent poftures and great attention, remembering that
we fpeak to Gcd, in our reverence to whom «c canlaylor.
not pollibly exceed.

not only wearied, but exasperated at the vanity of
itslSiours.

Parml.

.

To exacerbate ; to heighten malignity.

that exafiierates, or provokes; a provoker.

Exasi-era'tion. ». /. [from exajperatf.]
Aggravation; malignant reprefentation.

1.

My going to demand jurtice upon the five membcis,

my enemies loaded with all the obloquies and

ex.ifperalionl they could.

Provocation;

2.

irriutjon;

King Charles.

incitement of
^

rage.

To excel; to furpafs.

2.

When ambition is unable to attain its end, it is

3.

Hiodward on Fojfik,

inch in thicknefs.

another.

_

:

2.

,^

To go beyond any limits.
ftrires he may give him and not exceed.
Forty
'

Deul.

3.

To bear the greater proportion.
Juftice muti punilh the rebellious 'deed ;

DryJirn.

Yet punilii fo, as pity fliall exceed.

Exce'edinc. participial adj. \^tom exceed.'\
Great in quantity, extent, or duration.
He faith, that cities werejRiilt an exceeding Ipace
of. time before the great flood.

Raleigh's Hljlcty,

Exce'edinc. adv. [This word is not anaand
I»»very great degree ; emi-

'i'heir ill ufaje and exafperationt of him,

and his

logical, but has becr>long admitted

zeal for maintaining his argument, difpofed

him to

eilablirtied.}

Attrrtmy.

take liberty.

pretrnd

miit exampl.s

See the unwearied Briton delves his way.
And to the caverns lets in war and day. Blackmnre.

Exa.n-tla'iion n./. [from exaKt/afe.] The

rule is illuftrated by

atr.ipplication.

Which form'd with art, and wrought withendlel* toil,
Ran through tlie faithlefs excavated foil.

away.

By lime thofe feeJs arc wearied or exanllaleJ, or
Boyle.
unable to adt th;ir parts any longer.

it is gone,

1. Inftancc In

Though nitrous tempefts, and clandeftinc death,
FiU'd the deep caves, and num'rous vaults beneath,

to wade

;

Ray «> tbe Creation.

corn.

To EXANTLA'
1. To draw out.

Exaspera'ter. w./. [fcomexa/peratf.] He

a man, who, feeing his gods prophaoed, IhouU want
Dej/den.
the courage to defend them.

brim, were of that wonderful fmallnefs, that Faber
put a thoufand of them into an excavated pepper-'

Exakthk'matous. adj, [from exanthema-

When virtue is prcfent, mon take example at it;

Can we, for example, give the ptaifc of valour to

The aft of taking away the flefti.

The cups, gilt with a golden border about the

puftules.

The platter alone would pen the humour already
Baenn.
contained in the part, and fo exa/peraie it.

7. Inllance; ilhillrationof a general pofition
by fomc particular fpccification.

Grew,

Excarnifica'tion. »./. [exearnifico, La-

k'.lled.

^uJe, 7.
_
_
6. Influence which difpofes to imitation.
H- ifj. iv. 2.
they defire it.
»nd when
Example it a motive of a very prevailing force on
Rogers.
the adlions of men.

wax, whereby its fibres and velTelt

are very well feeii.

_

EX.iMTnEMATA. n.f. [[ig«»^^.»*«r«.] Ef- To E'XCAVATE. -v. a. [excavo, Latin.]
florcfcencies; eruptions; breaking out;
To hollow to cut into hollows.

•

Let us Ihew an eximple to our brethren
yudiib, viii. 24.
Taught this by his example, whom 1 now

dead ;

lefs ;

velTuls filled with

Djit.

Deprivation of life.

Such temperate order in fo fierce a courfe.
Stake/feare'i Xing Jel/n.
Doth want example.

Precedent of good.

Heat; the ftatc of growing hot.
Anger; the flate of growing angry.

1.

2.

Excanta'tion. »./. \excaiito, Latin.] Dif-

A crafty clerk, coramilTioner, or ixaMiner, will
Halc'i Imiv BfEngLtncl.
2, One who fearches or tries any thing; one

\a-

\excandeJco,

tin.]

Spiritlefs ; deprefled.

Exa'nimous. adj. [cAr«w/Wj, L.itin.] Life-

make a witKcfs fpeak what he truly never meant.

ExcANDt.'scENCY. j

Lifelefs; dead.

Exammite by love.

dence.

ExcANDt'scENCE.7»./.

1.

Exani.ma'tion.

A.

number vie even

for

2.

Exa'miner. ». /. [from examine.^
1. One who interrogates a criminal or evi-

3.

may

,

Lxkt.

1.

takeio the exanguious, both

Exa'nimate. adj. \exanimatus, Latin.]

When I be^an to exam'inf the extent and certainty
I

if we

The infcfls,

Difmifllon from fervioe.
Deprivation ; degradation.
Depolition, degradation, or exauSltfatlat, \% itfc
thing elfe but the removing of a perfon Itom foma
dignity or order in the church, and depriving hin»
of his ecclcfiaftical preferments. Ayliffe's Parcrgm.

Hereby they confound the generation of perfefl
tnimals with imperfeft, fanguineous with *«•«»-

4.

of our knowledge,
with words.

EX C

E X A

E X A

To

EXAL'CTORATE. 'v. a. [exauaoro.

Latin.
1. To difmifs from fcrvice.
2.

To depri\e of a benefice.
Arch hcreticks,

in the primitive days of ChrlfVi-

were by the chuich treated with no other
punilTiment than excommunication, and by exaulio.
anitv,

raii)!v

and depriving them ol thtir deRvecs thcteiu.
Aylijfe's Parerg.n.

Ex.vu ctora' 10N,»./. [ftoba txauSoraU.]
.

nently.

The country is fuppofed to be iMeeding rich.
Aiic!.
Tlie Gcnoefe were exceeding powerful by fea, and
contended often with the Venetians forfuperiority.
Raleigh.

Talk no more fo exceeding proudly; let not arro.
li'jm. ii.J.
gance come out of your mouili. ^
The action of the Iliad and "that of the j*;nc;4
but
are beauiiexceeding
ihort
;
were in themfelves
fully eiicinle.l and diverfilied by the invention of
epiludei,

and the micliiacry ot ilje jods.

Addiy.'i.

E X C

E X C
Hie feniwof the blood afForJs, by diftilUtion, in
txeeeding limpid water, neither acidnor allcaline.
Arbutbnot^

.

Gen

ixvii. 3J.

Daviei on Ireland.
beloved of the king'« fubjefts.
Precious (tones look exceedingly well, when they
are fet in thofe places which wc would make to come

Dryden.
cut of the pifture.
Is not this medium exceedingly more rate and
fubtile than the air, and exceedingly more elaftick
Ncwion' s Opiicks
andaftive?

,

T> EXCE'L. t>. a. {excello, Lat.] To outgo
in good qualities ;

to furjjafs.
Venus her myrtle, Phabus has his bays

How heroes rife, how patriots fet,
Thy father's bloom and death may tell;

great.

Prior.

To have good qualities
to Ise eminent ;

to be

Sbakeffeare.

Reuben, unliable as water, thou (halt not excel.
(Jen, xlii.

It is not only in order of nature for him to govern, that is the more intslligent; but there is no
lefs required, courage to protcft, and, above all, honelly and probity to abliain from injury: fo fitnei's

Some men, fome
to govern is a perplexed buitnefs.
nations, excel in the one ability, fome in the other.
Bacon^s Holy War,

Company are to be avoided that are good for noto

thofie

be fought and frequented that rxrr/

Temfle.
in fome quality orother.
He match'd iheir beauties where they moft excel;

Of love fung.better, and of arms as well.

E'xcELLENCE. T »./. [excellence, French;
E'xcELLENCY. J excellealia, Latin.]
1. The ftate of abounding in any good qua'^y.

.

Is it not wonderful, that bafe defires ihoiild fo
txtin^uifh in men the fcnfc of their own excellency,

make them willing that iheir fouls Ihould be

like the fouls of bealls, mortal and corruptible with
tbeir bodies?
Hosier,
I know not why a Send may not deceive a creature of more excellency thin himfelf, but yet a crea-

Dryd. Ju-j. Dedic,
3. The ftate of excelling in any thing.
ture.

_

h.rve amongft men of parts and Sufinefs,

heard any one
in mufick. :

4.

commended

feldom

for having an excellency

Locke.

That in which one excels.
The criticiftr.s have been rojde rather to difcover
beauties and excellenciet than their faults and impcrfeaions.

Addijoei.

5. Purity ; goodnefs.
St.e loves him with that excellence.

That angais love good men with.
6.

a general precept, or pofition.
But when he faith, .'^11 things are put under him,
it is

manifelt, that he is excepted

Th' exeeftedtnt.

Milton's Paradife Loft.

.

This

8.

Exce'ptionable.

upon

to

moft «<-r/i/;sKaWf in the whole poem,

be the

Addifon.

'

•

'\

and exceptious, that* they

Milton.

ar^e

not only

tfiort of

fores of fociety.

the

[from

South,

Exce'ptive. <7^". [from Mff//.] Including

except.

an exception.
Exceptive profolitions will make complex fylloas none but phyfici.uis came to the confultation , the nurfe is no phyfician, therefore the
^

gifms,

Sec

An improper word.
!

[from except; exceplio,

nurfe cime not to thf confuit,.tion,

any perfon from a general law.
Whtn God renewed this charter "of man's fove-

any of his breSouths
Ixt the money be raifed on land, with an exception to fome ol the more barren parts, that might

Logick.

Forgive my gen'ral and f»-i-f/.//,r/} raflinefs,
Perpetual (obcr gods
1 do proclaim
One honeft man,
HiuUfpcare's Timon,
'

•

'

!

Exce'ptor. ;/./. [from «ff//.j

Objeflor;

one that in;ikes exccpticns.
The txcipior makes a rcftcCfion upon

the

propriety of thofe cxprciTions,

Burnet

im-

ToExce'rn. a>. a.

rcignty over the creatures to Noah and hi^ family,
we rind no exception at all ; but that Cham llood
this right as

thren.

li'at s's

ExcE'pTLiiSS. a,//', [from except.^ Omitting
or negledingaJl exception; gene:al; univerfal.
This is not in life.

Latin.]
1. Exclufion from the things comprehended
in 3|^recept, or pofitioh ; exclufion of

with

look

They are (b fupercilious, ftiarf, triKiblefomc, fierce;

Miy I not live without coniroul and awe.
Excepting ftill the letter of the law Dry den' t Per/.
People come into the world in Turkey the lame
way they do here; and yet, excepting the royal fa.Collier on Ouelling.
roily, they get but little by it.

as fully invefted

1

Exce'ptious. rti/;'. \i<com except. Peevifh
froward; full of objeftions; qu;irreIfome.

know our duty, becaufe 'tis ne-

/.

'

of

their artillery : this palTage

cefTaryfor us to doit; and it is impolTible to do it,
Tilloi/on.
except we know it.

ti.

fxceptiott.]

true chatai£kr of lrieud<hip, but become the veiy

Nought valued he nor fear'd.
t. Unlefs ; if it be not fo that.

Exce'ption.

[from

The only piece of pleafantry in Milton is where
the evil fpirits rally rile angels upon Uie fuccefs

Cod and his Ton except.

exception of.

adj.

Liable to objeflidii.

.

{excerno, Latin.]
To
ftrainout; to fcparate or emit by ftrainers ; to fend out by excretion.
That which is dead, or corrupted, or rxccrmdf
hath antipathy with tlie fame ifiing when it is ali«e

and found, and With thofe parts which doixcern,'
Buco/j's Naturul Uijlory,

.

Sbaiefiteare,

A

title of honour.
It is now ufually applied to generals of an army, ambafladors,

and govern ours.
They humbly (hew unto your excellence.

To liave a gtwdly peace concluded of.

exception to the place of their burial, being too bafe
for them that were king's cliildren.
Bacon.

libalctfpeare.

prepofit,

Hbak'fpeare..

•;

_

In this fenfe it is commonly u^ed with
the verb take.
He gave Sir James Tirrel great thanks ; but took

Had rather have us win than him they follow.

Exce'pting.

•„

tion; but
'ff^ir-

junftion, is originally the participle paflive of the verb; which/like moft others,
had for its participle two terminations,
All except one is all,
except or excepted.
Except may likewife be,
one excepted.
according to the Teutonlck idiom, the imperative mood: i// except ow,- that is, all
but one, which you muft except.]
1. Exclufively of ; without inclufion of.
Richard except, thofe whom we fight againll.

It is necelTary to

Roderigo, thou haft tikenagaln/l me an excef.
I protelt I have dealt rtoftdiieaiy in
thy .

Sbak.

Sometimes with againfi.

7.

Locke,

Exce'pt. prepojit, [from the verb.

'

Pronouncing, that the palenels of this Bow'r

A fuccefliion which our author could not except
,

'

Bewray'dthe faintnefs of my mailer's heart.

objeftions.
againl>.

Sbakefp.

Sometimes with at.
He (irlt took exception at this badge.

6.

To objeft; to make

«.

taken: fome-

•

I fear'd to (hew my father Julia's letter.
Left he Ihould tike exception to my love.

Th' eiTeds, which thy original crime hath wrought

who never touch'd

offence

times with to.

Cor.

'In fome to fpring from thee,

Peevifti diflike;

5.

which did put all

EXCEPT.]. Without inclufion of; with

.

.

Dignity; high rank inexiftence.

1

Dryderu

culous.

To EXCEPT, v. a. {extipio, Latin.]
I. To leave out, and fpecify as left out of

Dryden.

Let thofe teach others, who ihemfelves excel;
Pope.
And ccnfure freely, who have written well.

as to

;

and humour reprefents foily, fo as to render it ridi-

word, long taken as a prepofition or con-

That Silvia is excelling.

2.

excellently inftruiflive and ex-

fatire lalhesvice into reformation

•

Then to Silvia let us fing,

thing;

Comedy is .both
tremely pleafant;

To Exce'pt. "v.

Excelling others, thefe ivere great
Thou greater ftill, muft thSTe excel.

in a great degree ;

To an eminent degree.

Adam, behold
Waller.

n.

2.

things under him.

Tea both e'xcelt which you vouchlafe to ptaife.

7»Exce'l. f.

whether thefe be julf exceptions agairft the cuftomr
of our church, when ye plead that they are the fame
which the church of Rome hath, or that they ar»
not the fame which fome other reformed churches
•
havedevifed,
Hooker, Pnface.
He may have exteptioni peremptory agai/ft the
jurors, of which he then (hall !hew caufc,
Spinfer,..
Revelations will foon be difccrned to be extremey
ly conducible to reforming men's lives, fuch as will
anfwer all objeflions and exceftions of fle(h an*
blood <7ja;>^ it.
Hammond.
.1 will anfwer what exceptions they can have
againjl our account, and confute all the reafons and
explications they can give of their own.
Benlley,

was made with hands, as he excellently declareth.
Brotvn*! Vulgar Errours,
That was excellently obferved, fays I, when 1 read
a palTage in an author, where his opinion agrees with
Svjijt,
mine,

a great degree; greatly; very much.
They cried out more exceedingly. Crucify him,
Mar. IV.

The Eirl of Surrey, lieutenant of Ireland, was
much feared of the king's enemies, and exceedingly

4. Ot^eftion ; cavil : with a^ainft or to.
Your aflertion hath drawn us to make feaicll'

Well ; in a high degree.
He determines that man waa ere£l, becaufe he

1

Exce'edingly. ad-j. 'Jrom txceeding.'\ To

I faac trembled «f«<//>^Vy.

E X C

E'XCELLENTLT. ad-v, \irQTCi exceUiHU'\

Shakrfpejre.

Addjon.
2. It fhould have /rom before the rule or
law to which the exception refers; but
it is fometimes inaccurately ufedwith to.
bt tax-'ree.

Pleads in exception to all gen'ral rules,
Yourtalleof follies, with our fcorn of fools.

Pope.

nourifhmcnt into the pans j
\o excern by fweat, and f6
maketh the parts allimilate.
Bacon's Sat. Ilift.
\n unguent or pap picparcd, witji m\ open veiicl
Exercife

fendetli

firft

and fccundl),

hclpotli

Ray 01: t/x Creation.

to iAr«r« it into,

ExceVption. »./. [excerptia, Latin.]
1. The aft of gleaning
feledling.
2. The thing gleaned or feJcfted.
;

E'xcF.Ll.ENT. adj, [exccllem, Latin.]
1. Of great virtue; of great worth; of great
dignity.

.

Arts and fci^ncea are excellent, in order to certain
ends.
Taylot.
_

2. P'minent in any good quality.
H« is ixctllint in power and iu judgment.
'^ib, ixxvii. 23.

3. Thing excepted or fpecified in exception.
Every aA of parliament was not previous to vvhai
it enacted; unlefs thofe two, by which the Earl 01
• Strafford and Sir
John Fcnwick left their heads mnv
fdft for exceptions.

Stui/t.

Who hrlttaught fouls endav'd, and realms undone,
Th' enormous faith of many made for one ;
That proud exception to all nature's laws,
T' invert the world andcouuterwotk its caufc. Pope.

Times have confumed his works, faving fome few
excerptons.

Raleigh.

,

EXCE'SS. «./. [exof,,,, Latin,]
I. More than enough; fuihy fupcrfluity.
Am(>nj;ft the
fluitics,

of duty.

there

is

heaps of ihrlc ixcj/rs and fupercfpicd the want of a principal part

Hcoktr,

Coodnefi

'

E X C

E X C
'CoojiiierMnl'wert to the thcnlogiol »ifhie di«ril7>
but error) the dcfire of power
in fxfr/t cauled tlie »ngcl» to fill i the defire of
knowledge in txcefi caufed inaii to fill ; but in

Ekcha'noe.

[from the verb.]
TTic acl of giving and receiving recipro-

1.

ijiarity theit is no nccc/i, neither

2. Exuberance^ ftatc of exceeding; comparative exuberance.
Let the rupeifluous and lull dieted man.

That braves your ordinioot. feci your power quickly;

So dlllribution (hall do unto env/>,
iVnd each man have enough.

Shaitf.Xin^Leaf.

The feverjl rays in that white light retain their
by whi^ thofc of tny fort,
whenever they become more oopieut than the reft,
do by their txceft aad predominance caufc their f roStxvicm'i Oftirit.
fer colour (o appear.

A popularfway, by forcing kings to give

And ttien they parted, with txcbangeaS hami< I

Vlade both, by driving to be greater, Uli. Dunham.
liofpitality fomciimcs degenerates into protul'e«e(s: tveo parlimony ilfelf, which fits but ill upon
a publick figure, is yet tlie more parJonable txcr/s of
Ailirkury.

the two.

ExcE'isivE. adj. [excfffif, French; frome'r-

2. I'raflick by permutation.
The
ta maintained by intereourie t acd the
whole o*tt>i< of nature it a gnat exchange, in which
one go>d tuni it, and ought to be, the ftatcd price
Smith.
of another.

EXCrSE. »./. [accifi, Dutch; excifum, La-

wwM

have biUt \ttx moaey by fxtianftf
from Floretsee. and muft here deliver them. Shakef.

(haep,

I

The balance of the aonef of difibrent

4.

nations.
He wai Ociiled in the enhatige beyond feat, and
in ail the cirouAftanees

ud praOioee thenof.
HuywarJ »n EJrrmrd VI,

The Hmg given In return for fometbing

;.

If none appear ts

_

Mwe upon dsy pcrfoa

Ecelrf.
The people's propeity it is, \sy txa/^vt favour,
to bring great men to mifcry, and then to be rx-

Hayu/arJ.

erJTir in pity.

ad-v,

[from excfjji've.\ Ex-

ceedingly; eminently; in a great degree.

A man muft be cxrrjfively ftupid, as well as unAJJifon.

his own fide.

txcambiare, low Latin.]
I. To give or quit one thing for the fake
of gaining another.
fell of it,

neither exchange nor

Ex.ek. ilviii. 14.
alienate the hrft fruits.
Exchange his (heep for fhclh, or wool for 1 fpark-

Lccic.
ling pebble, or a diamond.
Take delight in the good things of this world,
fo a» to remember that wc are to part with Ihem, and
to excbangt

them for more eicellent and durable

erpoymentt.

Altetbury.
_

l"o give or take reciprocally.
Exctange forgivenefs with me, nohle lUmlet j
Mine and my father's blood, be not upon thee.

Shakrfpcare'i Hamlri.
Nor thine on me.
Words having naturally no fignilitation, tlie idea

mull be learned by thofe who would exchange
thoughts, aad hold intelligible difcourfe with ©then.
Ijacte.

Heie.then exthange we mutually foigivenefs,
So may the guilt of ai! my broken vows.

My perjuries to ihee be all forgotten,

_

perfon with
3. it has iviih before the

Rrwe.

whom

the exchange is made, and for before the
thing taken in exchange.

The king called in the old money, and ercflcJ
enchanges where the weight of old money was extbangedftrneii.

Of » more icagrant ^aradife.

Cleavehid,

Exci/e,

With htmdred rows ot teeth, the Oiark exceeds.
And on all trades iikc Cafliiwar (be feeds. Mar-nl.
Hire large houfes, and opprefs the poor.
liryden' s Juvenal
By farm'Je«i/e.

their excife.

Extir». /. [exci/io, Latin.]
pation ; deftruftion ; ruin ; the aft of
cutting off; the ftate of being cut off.

Excision.

Pride is one of the fataleft inftruments of excifim.
Decay o/tiely.
Such conquerors are the inlhmnents of vengeance
on thofe nations that have filled up the mcafure of

feek, 1 will my own retign ;

O fpare her life, and in exchange take mine.
6.

The thing received in return for fometbing given.
which was paid you by all,
who had the happinefs fo know you, was a wife
Dryden.
exchange for the honours of the court.

The refpeft and love

7.

The place where

CjmJrn.

Uttn Kiviaiatcd willi the Uwt and fafhions ol

To

The lord ofthoufands, than if now txcu'd. Pope,
Exci'seman. ft,/, [exci/e ZTiA man,} An
officer who infpetls commodities, and rate*

as the denomination was raifcd, juft fo much Icfs of
commodity had the buyer in exchange for it. Locie,

iniquities, and aregrowo ripe for excijion, Atterhtiry,

Excita'tion. n./. [from ««/«, to excite,
Latin.]

The aft of exciting, or putting into raoi

I.

the merchants meet

tion.

to negociate their affairs ; place of fale.

All putrefaflions

and fomelimoa in another fignilicatinn, ought to pafs,
in the fchools for as fair a man, as he does in the
market and exchange, who fells leveral things under

putrefied,

hanm,

by the body ambient.

The aft of roufing or awakening.

I.

Licle.

the fame name.

come from the ambient body,

either by ingrefs of the ambient body into the body
putiefieJ, or by excitation and foUicitatiou of the body

He that »res the fame words lometimes in one,

The original of fenfible and fpiritual ideas may
be owing to fenfation apd refledlion, the recolletUoD
and frelh excitation of them to other occjtions.
Watts' I LtgicK

No thing, no place is Orange,

who belicvea there is no virtue but on

To EXCH A'NGE. i\ a. \exchanger, French

J,

HayumrJ.

In South-fea days, not happier when furraii'd
it

That EuuBcs me traitor, viUaia4ike he lies. SieU^f.
Spend xU I hjive, only rive me fo much time in
tf change of it. Siaie/p. Merry lflve> a/H-'inii/ar.
It made not the filvtr coined go for more than
its vahie in all things to be bought; butjuft fo much

_

or diflike.
Be not txcrjiivt toward any.

not

IhouideH.
^
Ambitious now to take eirr^

Thy heinous, maaitdft, and many treafonl.

Vehement beyond mcafure in kindnefs

They Ihall

llie people lliould pay a ratable tax for their
aad ao exri/i foe evory thing whlih thcv

ToExcj'se. 'V, a. [from the noun.]
levy exclfe upon a perfon or thing.

received.

Sanit,

txciJfntV\pitU,

A baleful tax levied upon commo-

and adjudged not by the commoa
judges of property, but wrctchea hired

Dry den' t hid. Emf.

If the panicum be laid below and about the bottom of a root, it will caufe the root to grow to an

rtaritable,

ttp.]
dities,

by thofe to whom excife is paid.

tity or bulk.

Exce'ssivelv.

Clipped money will pafs whilll the king's banker*
Locke.

and at Icaft the exrhrfuer takee if.

The form or a£l of tramferritg. properly
by bills or MOte*-

3.

I { blood you

t.

Your trcafurei
Are qiiilc eahaulKd, At exchequer' t en^ty. Denham.

Beyond the common proportion of quan-

I,

Harris,
I will be cheater to them both, and they (hall be
Shakcfpearc,
txcie^veri to m-.

IVe^Ur.
Th«y ka4 their 00m, they aiake exehanget;
Aidijon.
they are always ready to ferve eoc another.

— Tharc'smy ncbeuige; what in the world he

fUn to the fame catremes ; and one txcr/t

Ing and paying of mone;?. It Is alfo t
court of record, wherein all caufes touching the revenues of the crown are h.nndled.

Much blood the mooiters lolt, and they their arms.

There is mypUdgo: I'll prove it on thy heart.

More than /* m for objects to receive,

f

«f./

cally.

c6loriticlc qualities,

3. Intemperance; unreafonable indalgence
in meat and drink.
It was rxcrfs of wine that fct him on,
And on4iis more advice we pardon him. Shtl/fp.
There will be need of femperance in dietj tt
«he body once heavy with ne^s and furtciti , hangs
plummett on the noUer parts,
Duffa.
4. V^iolence of paflion.
5. Tranfgredion of dqe limitl.

lacke.

vrVitlvore abeoad.

tfid t^O'" ><> excf/'

c»n angel or nun
BiUvn's mf^yi-come in danger by it.
Members are crooked or didorted, or diffxoporA-y
tioiuic to the reft, either in nre/i or defeft.

tmm MUntry, he hat fusicthiag ta enelange 1

his

While his fair liofom is the world'* exchange.

Den ham.

Excha'nger. rt.f. [itom cxckange.'\ One To EXCl'TE. -v. a. \eieito, Latin.]
who praftifes e*chanj;e.
To roufe ; to animate to ftir up
I
;

.

Whili^ bullion may be had for a fmall price more

the law

ExcHt'AT. »./. SeeEsCHtAT.
He by my ruins thinks to make them great;
To make one great by others lofs is bad txcbeai.
Sfenfer,

Exche'ato*. «./. See Escheator.
Thcfe

DryJen,

Exci'tement. n. /. [from excite.]
motive by which one is
mated, or put in aftion.

and dukes

w.

f.

French; fchaccarium,

[f/chejueir,

lluvv l).ind I then.

Excitements ol my reafon and my blood.

Norman

low Latin,* from

The court
/fAu/i, a trcafure ; German.]
to which are brought all the revenues belonging to the crown. It confifts of tw o
parts; whereof one dealcth fpecialiy in
the hearing and dcciJinjj of all caufcs appertaining to tlie king's, coffers : the other
IS called the receipt of the exchequer,
whidi i4 properl/ employed in the rccciv-

'Ihe

ftirred up, ani-

That have a father kill'd, a mother ftain'd.

Carew.

Exchk'quer.

To put in motion; to awaken; to raife.

z.

appointed their fpecial
admiral, receiver, h.ivcncr,
officers ;
as (hcrift',
cuftomer, butler, fearclier, comptroller, gjgcr, extbealu; feodiry, auditor, and clerk of the market.
earls

to

The LageJcmonians were more excited to Sefirc
of honour with the excellent verfes of the poet
Tirtarus, than with all the exhortations of their cap.
Sfenjn's IriLmd.
tains.
That kind of poefy which excites to virtue the
greateft of men, is of greatcrt ufc to human kind.

'rff^f-

«

.

;

encourage.

than ilic weight of our current cadi, ihefc rxcb^ngen
generally chufe rather to buy bullion than run the
silk of melting down our coin, which is crijr 'al hy

And let all llcep >

Shahffctrt.

[from r.ri</e.]
1. One that llirs up others, or puts them ia
motion.
They never punifhcd the delinquency of the tu-

Excj'ifR.

v./.

mults and tlicir exiiiers.
2,

i^'ng Cbjil:,,

The caufe hy which any thing is raiied
or put in motion.
Hope is tlie grand exciter of induftry.
Decay of Firm.

EX C
ft EXCLAIM. IT. n, [exdamo, Latin.]
1. To cry out with vehemence; to make
an outcry ; to cry out querulouily and
outrageoufly.
This ring,

Which, when you part from, lofe, or give awajr.
Let it prebge the ruin of your love,
Andbemy 'vantage to «f/«/)» on you.
Siakrff,
Thofc who fXcUim againft foreign tyranny, do,
to this intedine ufutpcr, make la mlire dedition of
Decay of Piety.
themfflves.
The mod infupportable of tyrants exclaim againd
theexercife of arbitrary power.
L' EJfratige.

2.

by a forcible proruptioo, antidates their perijd at
exdufion.
Bnian's I'ulgar £rrt,urs.

Exclusion. »./ [{torn exclude.]
I -

Henry the Filth,

That thus you do exclaim you'll go with him? Sbak.
». /. [from the verb]
Clamour; outcry.
dtfufcd.

Kow

Alas, the part I had in Glo'ller's blood
Doth more folicit me than your rxclaimi.
To llir againft the butchers of his life.

Stat.

Exch^'iMitL, a. /. [{mm exclaim ]
One
that makes vehement outcries one that
fpeaks with great heat and paffion.
;

I

muft

tell

a pathetical

The fait and liitviated ferolity, with fome por-

A note by which a pathetical fentencc is
Pradifing exclamation.

'ExcLv'aivs. aJJ. [ftomexc/utle.]
1. Having the power of excluding or denying admiffion.
They obftaele End none

To EXCLU-DE. -v. a. [ixclutfo, Latin.]
I.

To (hut up

;

to hinder

from entraiKC or

admiflion.
Fcnc'd with hedges and deep ditches round
ExclmJt th' encroaching cattle fronv thy grouni.

DrjJ. Virgil.
Sure I am, unlefs I win in arms.

To Hand cxcluMd trom Emilia's charms.

2.

ud

Though thefe three fons of fubftjnces do no not extlude one another out of the fame place, yet we

To debar; to hinder from participation;
to prohibit.
Juftice, that fits and frowns were pubKck law«
Exclude (oft mercy from a private caufe.
In your tribunal moft hcrfelf does pleale
There only fmilcs, becjufelhelivcs ateafe. Dryden.
This is Dutch partnerlhip, to (hare in all our
beneficial bargains, and exdiult us wholly from
theirs.

3.

To except in any pofition.

s-Mifu

4. Not to comprehend in any grant orprivi-

They feparate from all apparent hope of life and
falvation, tlioufands

whom the goodnefsof Almightv

Cod doili not exclude.
fhokir.
5» To difmifs from the womb or egg.
Otbcn gsound (his difrufuon upon iLcir conti-

ties.

an account or number :

4.

Excepting.

ExcLu'slVELY. aJf. [from exclufme .]
1. Without admiffion of another to participation : fometimes with to, properly with
of.

not eafy to difcern, among the many differing fubftances obtained from the fame portion
of matter, which ought to be eftecmcd, exctufii'nJy
It

is

to ail the rctl,

its inexillcitt elementary

ingredients';

much Icfs what primogenial and limple bodies, convened together, compofe it.
Boylr.
Ulylfes aJJreffcs himfelf to ihe qtnen chieBy or
primarily, but not f*f/<yfi'«'/vof the king. Broome.
2.

Without comprehenfton in an account ox
number not iiiclufively.
;

Tlie

part lafts from the J.ite of the citation
to the joining of ilfue, exdufively: the fecond continues to a conclulion in the caufe, inclufively.
hi'.t

Ayli£cU Parirgon^

To Exco'cT. -p. a. [excofJui, Latin.]
boil up
to make by boiling.

To

;

Salt

and fugar, ixcodedhy heif, are diflTolved by
Bacon's Natural Hifiory.

cold and moitture.

To Exco'gitatb. v. a, \excogito, Lasin.J
To invent; to ftrike out by thinking.
If the wit of man had been to contrive this organ,
what could he have poflibly exagiiated more ac-

curate ?

The tradition of the origination of mankind feems
to be univerlat ; but

the particular methods of that

origination excogitated by the heathen, were particular,
ilaU'i Origin of Miakiitd.

Hooker..

To EXCO'RIATE. %'. a. To flay; to ftrip.
off the fltin.

An hyperfarcoTs arifes upon the txcorlatedeytWi,
and turneih it outward.

IVifeman's Surgery.

A

loolciiers proves often a fatal fymptom in fevers-;
for it weakens, MMr;ar», andintiaines the bowels.

AriuthtioC,

Excoria'tiov, n.f. [from excoriate.]
1.

Lofs of (kin > privation of ikin; the aiTl
of flaying.
The pituite fecerned in the nofe, mouth, and in*
tcltines,

M'lion't Pjradifi Left.

1 k.iow not whether he reckons the drofs, txclu.
five or iiiclulive, with his three hundred and ftxty
tons of capper
Sivi/l.

flare.
Lcclte.
If the church be fo unhappily contrived as to ex-

a.

As for excommunication, it neither (hutteth out
from the myltical, nor clean from the vifible church
but only from fellowlhip with the vifible in holy du.

is

not an excrementitious, but a laudable
for defending thofe parts fron».

humour, necelTary

Debarring from participation.

oppofcd to iuclujiie.

cannot conceive but that they murt necelTanly each
•f ihtmexclujc any of the fame kind out of the fame

clude fiom it5 commanion luch perfons likelieft to
have great abilities, it fliould be altered
S-wift.

An ecclefiafticalinterdift; exdufion from the fellowlhip of the church;
municate.']

if fpirits embrace.

In fcriplure there is no fuch thing as an heir that
was, by right of nature, to inherit all, exclufiie oi
hisbiethrcn.
Locke.

Dryder.

Bodies do each linfly polTefs its proper portion,
iccotding to the eitentof its fohd parts,
thereby
ixctudi all other bodies from that (pace
Lxke.

Ayliffe's Parergon.

Of membrane, joint, or limb, exelufivehnt:
F.afier rh.iii air with air,
Total they mis.

bm not unto perfons excommxnicattd.

Excommunica'tjon. »./. [iiom excom~

is divided between the guts and bladrem.iins undivided in birds, and hath

3. Not takiirg into

2. Containing exclamation.

Hammond's Pra6l. Cjtecb,

The office is performed by the parilh-prieft at intermont,

but a fingle Jefcent by the guts with the exclujhns
of the belly.
Brotun's Vulgar Errours.

marked thus
ExcL a'matory. adj, [from exclaim.^
1.

it

Shakefp,

What if they (hall excommunicate me, hath tne
doctrine of meeknefs any falvc for me then ?

tion of choler,
der, yet

O

3.

From his all^iance to an heretick.

How were it p*Btble the womb (hould contain
the child, nay, fometimes twins, 'till they come
to their due pcrfedlion and maturity for exdufion *
Ray on the Creation.

Htakir, Deeticat'ian.

emphatical utterance ;

Thou (halt ftand curft and excommunicate ;
And blcfled (hall he be, that doth revolt

The aft of debarring from any privilege

Ejeftion; emiflion; thingemitted.

church by an ecclefi*

to interdift from the par<i-

ticipation of holy myfteries.

egg or womb.

6.

vifible

aftical cenfure ;

is for

The difmiflion of the young from the

5.

The ears of the people are continuaHy beaten

feittence.
Mufidonis • Mufidorus ! but what ferve tnclanutieru, where there are no ears to receive the found ?
Sidney,

nion of the

not reception in any manner.

4. Exception.
There was a queltion a(kej at the table, whether
the French king would agree to ha« the difpoling of
the marriage ot Bretagne, with an exception and
txclujion that he (hould not marrv her himfelf?
ilactn's lleniy VII.

Hooker

•ToExcommu'nicate. [t: a. excommuttko,
low Latin.} To ejeifl from tKc commu-

or participation.

«ith excUmatiiati againli abuliEt in the church.

2. An

VerhifixMcommitnicaile; yea, and call for noto-

an entire exdufion of fear, which is
fuppofed to have fome iiU!uer^ce in every law, he oppofeshimfclf tocvcrygo^ernment.
Addifon.
If he

vociferation.

Shake/p.

adj. Liable or d«ferving to be excommunicated.

_

Sis excUimcr, that his manner of

Either be patient, or intreat me lair,
Or with clamorous report of war,
Thus will 1 drown your exclamations,

Excommu'nicable.
rious improbity.

2. Rejeflion ;

proceeding is very ilrauge and unaccountable.
Aiteriury.

Exclama'tiok. »./. [exclamath, Latin.]
1. Vehement outcry; clamour; outrageous

fated and invented models, net much arifiiig from
the true image of the things themftives.
lljle.

The a^ of Ihutting out or denying ad-

In bodies that need detention of fpirits, the c.velufim of the air doth good ; but in bodies that need
emilfion of fpft-its, it doth hurt.
Bacon,

3.

Exclaim.

We ftiall find them to be little elfe thatl txragl'

miffion.

To declare with loud vociferation.
Is Cade the fon of

E XC

EX C
nued or profrafted time of ielivery, wherewith <*•
eluding but one a-day, tlie latter btood impatient,

excoriations,

2.

Ariutbnot.

Plunder; fpoil ; the sCi of dripping o£
pofleflions.
It hath marvelloufly enhanced the revenues ofthe
crown, though with a pitiful excoriation of the poorer
fort.
Hoiuei.

ExcoRTicVrioif. n.f. [Itam. cortex, and.
ex, Latin.]
thing.

bark off any

Pulling the

^utncj;

To E'xcreate. <v. a. [excreo, Latin.] lo
ej'eft at the.'mouth by hawking, or forcing
matter from the throat.

E'.XCREMENT. n.f.\excreme»titm, Latin.]
That which is thrown out as ufelefs, noxious, or corrapted from the natural paflage*
of the body.

We

fee that thofe excretaenti, that .ire of the firft
digenion, fnell the worll ; as the excrements of the
Ihe kdly.
Bacon.
It fares with politick bodies as with the phyfical j;
each would convert all into their own proper fub(iince„ and caA forth as excrement what will not fa
be changed,
Jialcigi't Ejfajs.

Their fordid avarice rakes
\a excrements^ and hires the very jakes.
Drjdtit,.
Farce, in itfelf, is of a naif y fccct
Buttbe gainfmelis notof the excremtnt.
Dryden.
You may tind, by diifcltion, not only their (tomachs full of meat, but their intcliines full of ri'*
crement.

BcntUy,

The excrem^Jils of horf^s are nothing but hay,
and, as luch, combultible.

Arbulhnotcm Aliments.

ExcR-EMt'.NTAL. adj. [from ctcrement.^
That which is voided as excrement,
God hath given virtues to fpring3, fo'.intains,
earth, plants, and thcexcrfffieff/a/paruof ihebafc(i:
living creatures.
Raleigl-,
'

ExcREMEN'i i'tious.(7(^'. [(mmexcrfme^it.]
CoBtaiaing

excrements;

conlifling

gl'

matter evcreted from the body; offenfive
or ufelcfs to the body.
The txcroK'niilhu! moifture paflcth in birds
thmugh a fairer and more delicate ttrainer than in
fceafts.

'loll

Btinn.
of the mini deftroyi health, by altraflinf

the fpirits from their talk of concodion to the brain ;
whither they carry along with them clouds of vapours
Harvey.
and txcrenunlithus humouis,
The lungs are the grand emunflory of lUe bojy ;
and the main end of refpiralion is continually to
difcharge and expel au txcremtntitiont fluid out of
IVoodvurii.
the mafs of blood.
An animal fluid no ways excnmtntiihia, mild,
elaborated, and nutncious. Arbulhuot on jilimtnls.

Excre'sence. 1
Excre'sency. /

». /.

[excn/co,

ternatural produdion.
All beyond this is monftrous, 'tis out of nature,
'biiaexciffcence, and not a liring part of poetry.

Dry dm.

the caufe, a tranflation of
humours from his joints to hislungs^

orthopnoiia;

Excu'rsion.

2.

adj.

\excrejctns.

preternatural fuperfluity.
Expunge the whole, orlop ih' cxeri/ient fUtt

Learned men are excufable in particulars, whereRaleigh.
upon our falvation dependeth not.

Not only that
That were excufable, that and thoufands more
Ol femblablc import. Shaicfpcare'i Ant.and Cleof,
For his intermeddling with arms he is the more
excufable, becaufc. many others of his coatare com-

excufable, becaufe men were ignorant.

Excu'sableness.

ExcRu'ci ABLE.

adj.

[from

Prefaces, excufaliont, and other fpeeches of reference to the perfon, though they fccip.to proceed
Bacon's Effayi.
of modefty, tlicy are bravery.
GoodneCs to be admired, that it refuted not liis

argument in thepunilhrneotof h'nexcufation.

Bad men excufe their faults, good men will leave
them;

He a£ls the third crime that defends the lirft.
,

,

Bcnyonfcn.

,

To difengage from an obligation; remit

2.

attendance.

'Jotorlpre; to torment.
And h^rc my heart 4oiie time excruciate

have bought a piece of ground, and I mud needs
I pray thee have me cxcufrd.
Luke.
go and tee it
I.aud attended throughout that whole journey,
which he was not obliged to do, and no doubt would
have been excufcd from it.
Clarendon,
I

Amongft the leaves I reftcd all that night. Cbafman.

eiating fears, thofe whips of the Divine Ncmeits,
^a( ttequently Icourge evea atheilh thcmfclvcs,
Benl/y.

Excuba'tion. »./. [excu/iatio, Latin.] The
Di^L

yi Excui.'pATt, i>. fl. [ex and c/i//>i), Lat.J
To clear from the imputation of a fault.

To remit; not to exaft

3.

;

as, /o excufe

a

forfeiture.
I o weaken or mollify obligation
to any
thing; to obtain remiflion.

4»
-

Nor could

t'lc real

danger of leavi-ng their dwel-

lingi to go up t» the temple, excufe their journey.

South,

A good child will not feck to ex^iiljiaie herfclt at
die molt icvcrtd cbarattcr^. Clarijf.i.

We find out fome exeufe or other for referring
good refolutioiis,

'till

our intended retreat

is

cut oK

by death.
Addifon.
2. The aft of excufing or apologifing.

Heaven put it in thy mind to take it hence.
That thou might'ft win the more thy father's love.
Pleading fo wifely in excufe oi\x, Sbakef, Henry IV.

3. Caufe for which one is excufed.
Let no vain hope youreafy mind feducc;
For rich ill poets are without excufe.
Rofcommom
Nothing but love this patience could produce ;
Drydea,
And 1 allow your rage that kind excufe,
'

Excu'seless. <7i^'. [from <';fi-»/i-.] That for
which no excufe or apology can be given.
The voluntary enllaving myfelf is excufelefs.
Decay of Piety,

Excu^ER. ».yt liiovRtxcufe.]

One who pleads for another.

1

In vain K'ould his excufert endeavour to palliate
.his inormitics by imputing them to madnefs. Sv:ift.

2. One who forgives another.

To EXCU'SS. f. a. [exciijus, Latin.]
feize and detain by law,

t

To

.

The perfon of a man ought not, by the civil law
to be taken for a debt,
has beenfiift exeuffed,

Excu'ssioN^^»./.
by law.

uultfs his goods and eftatei

\txcufjia,

Ayliffe's Parergon,

Latin.] Seizure

If upon an txeitffion there are not goods ?o fatisfy
the judgement his body may be attached.
Aylijje.

E'xECRABLE adj. [e^ecrobiUs, Latin.] Hateful ; deteftable ; accurfed ; abominable.
For us to change that which he hath cllablirhed,
they hold it execrable pride and prefumption. Huoiier.
Of the viftble church of Jelus Chrill thole may
be, ill rcfped^ of their outward profeflion ; who, iik
regard of theirinward difpofition, are mofl worthily
both hateful in the fight of Cod hiint'clf, and in
the eyes of the founder part of the vilible church
Hooker.
moft execrable.
Give fentence on this execrable'ymXth,
That hath been biccJer of ihefe dire events. Stat.

When execrabUTvoy in aOics lay,
Through hrcs, and Iwoids, and feas, they forc'd their
way.
Dryden.

:

they keep their h-irdncfs
and impenitent hearts, to thole gnawing and excruas long as

aft of watching all night.

Latin.]

To extenuate by apolog)'.

1

DiYf.

To EXcRU'*-LA rE. -v. a. {excrum, Latin.]

making apology.

[excii/o,

Raleigi,

foever.

,

excufe; apologetital ;

u thou lov'ft thy life, make fpecd from hcnca.
Shalteffeare,

Bro^i'n.

Excu'satory adj. [horn excufe.] Pleading

whaim

feryants,

my juft defence evil entreated, I

As good fucccfs admits no examinatiog, lb the
contrary aliowi of no excufe, how teafoiuble or jull

diffEtisfadion, to perufe the enfuing relation. Biyle.

rxcrrtante.]

• Liable to torment.

But,

Excusa'tion. »./. |from exca/e.] Excufe ;

To RXcU'SE. 1'. a.

Excreioriet of the boJy are nothing but (lender
flips bf the iricries, deriving an appropriated juice
Cbeyne.
from tlie blood.

tl^c cxpeace of

TilUtfon,

[from exai/able.]
Pardonahlenefs ; capability to beexcufed.
It may fatisl'y others of the excufablenefs of my
». /.

was fet upon by fome of your

Sidney,
came to make my exeufe to you.
Be gone, I will not hear thy vain excufe^

Hovel.
Before the Cofpel, impenitency was much more

E'xcretory. adj. [(rom excretion.'] Having

cretion,

1

becaufe I have in

manders.

A' diminution of the body happens by the excretive faculty, excerning and evacuating more than
Harvey on Confuntp.
iiecefiary.

.

Sidney.

whidi were in his fon far more excufable.

plea; apology.

the quality of feparating and ejecting fuperfluous parts.
E'xcRtTORY. tt. /. The inltniment of ex-

1

Atteibury.

logy may be admitted.
Though he were already ftept into the winter of
his age, he found himfelf warm in thofe defires,

it

excuze, that of the noun with the natural
found.]
Plea offered in extenuation ; apology.

Boylt.

Excu'sable. adj. [from exciife,'] Pardonable; that for which fome excufe or apo-

This fcnfe

Rom.
AccuGng or elfe txcufing ooe another.
The laft
». /. [from the verb.
fy liable of the verb is founded as if written

am too weary to allow myfelf any excurjon

But why lo far excurjhie, when at hand
Fair-handed Spring unbofoms every grace ? Thomfon.

crements.

Leave them,

Lficlte.

Excu'rsive. adj. [from excurn, Latin.]
Rambling; wandering; deviating.

Thefymplomsof the fx<-r«/«« of the bile vitiated

Excre'tive.o*^' [rjrfrf/«/, I.atin.] Having
the power of feparating and ejefting ex-

Pofe.
But in low numben (hort exetirfiom tries.
An expedition into fome dillant part.
The mind extends its thoughts oftencr beyond the
utmoft expanfion of matter, and makes txcurfions

from the main defign.

of animal fubllance ; ejecting

3. The thing excerned.
The mols from apple-trees is little better than an
Bacon.
txcrettott.

Excu'se

I

fomewhat quite out of the body, as of no
further ufe, which is called excrement.

are a yellowilh Ikin, while baid faopes, lofs of apjetite,
ArbulhnotJiri Aliments.
and lixivial urine.

Her guide now loft, no more attempts to rife,

btelIi:dnersof Chrill in Heaven,

Pope.

To juftify; to vindicate.
rare.

ramble from a fubjeft.
Expeft not that 1 (hould beg pardon for this excurfion, 'till I think it a digreflion, to inQft on the

Excre't<on. »./. {excre/i'o, Latin,]
I. Separation

2 Cor. jii,

4. Digreffion ;

Of all, our vices have created arts
Then fee how little the remaining fum,
Which fcrv'd the palt, and muft the times to come.

:

apology.
Think you that we excufe outfelfts unto you ?
7.

_

Bently.

Pope,

To throw ofiF imputation by a feigned

6.

fettled path ; a ramble.
The mufe whofe early voice you taught to fing,
Prefcrib'd her heights, and prun'd her tender wing;

into that incomprchenfible.

Latin.]

7'hat which grows out of another with

Harx'ey.

French; fx-

3. Progreflion beyond fixed limits.
The caufci of ihofe great excurfiom of the feafons
into the extremes of cold and heat, are veryobfcure.
Arbulbnot on Air,

Addifon on the IVar.

fuch inleils which wounJ the tender buds.

Excre'scent,

w./. lex(ier/:6»,

No whiter page than Addifon's remains.

The aft of deviating; from the ftated or

1.

They are the fJr(T^/irffr« of our fouls; which, like
our'hair and beards, look horrid or becoming, as we
cut or let them gr«w.
Tumoui's and txcrffccncfi of plants, out of which
generalk ilTuts a fly or a worm, are at firft made by

Addi/oH.

Excufe fome courtly ftrainsj

tartarous

curro, Latin.]

We have little more than the txcrtfienda of the

7atUr.

O

His difcafe was an afthma, oft excurrlng to an

Latin.]

of another without ufe, and contrary to
the common order of produftion ; pre-

thou, whoe'er thou art, exeufe the force
befrieod our courfe
Thefc men have us'd; and

Td Excu'i. V. ft. To pafs beyond limits;
A word not nfed.

Somewhat growing out

Spanilh monarchy.

EXE

EX C

EX c

5.

To pardon by allowing an apology.

E'xECRABLY.fli/x'. \fitQmexecrable.'\ Curfedly ; abominably.
'Tis fuftianall; 'tis «<Trai/y bad
But if they will be fools, mult you hem.ad?

Dry J,

T'oEX'ECRArE. 'V. a. {execror, Latin.]
To ciiiTe to imprecate ill upon to abo;

;

min.ntc.
Extindion of fome tyranny, by the indignation
of a people, makes way for fome form contrary to
that which they lately rxefroMi/ and detcfted.
Temple.

Execra'tioj.-.

EXE

E X E
ExECRA'TtON. n.f. \itara.extt¥tttc.'\ Curfcj
,

i— Ceafc, gentls qutm, thefe execratims.
Shikef.
For this we may. thank Adam but his thanks
Shall be the exccnzHm.

to the happinefs of the execution.

!

Mi/ton's Paradife Ltfi.
The Indians, at naming the devil, did fpit on the
ground in token of rJ:«r^«o/r,
RtiUitigfieet.

follo%v

an exeftion,

To cut

'-TsE'XECUTE.

To perform

I.

;

-.•,

a.

J.

Capital puniflinient; death inflitled by
forms of law.
Good reft-,
As WTetches have o'er iiisht.
That wait for tjf«».';"M in the morn.
Shakefp.

[exejuor,-U\lu.]

I

BxcJus

to fuch as thouM exeirJe, and of puuifiiment to fuch
as lliouli ncg!e£l their commiffion.
South.

4.

^ To put

in aft ; to do what is planned or
determined.
Men may not devife laws, but are bound forever
to ufe uA execute thof* which God hath delivered.
Hooker.

it almoft execures itfelf.

•"'^r-.

1.

It

when

Ddvies.

Coud'ft Ihojj but judge as well as execaie.
How often wou'dlV thou change the felon's doom.
!

DryJrn,

to kill.

The treacherous Faltolfe wounds my peace.
now had him.

2.

The cannon againll St. Stephen's gate execultJ
10 well, that the portcullis and gale were biuken,
and entry opened into the city.
Sir.
Haywa'rj.

Ex t'c u T ER. ». /. [from execute.]J.
.J. He that performs or executes any tiling.

'.

"ith.

-

and Euripide?, in their moil beautiful
j
pieces, are impartial «f«/r« of poctick
'
juftice.

2.

XI
He
that IS intrufted to perform the will
-

x>f a teftator.

1

4.

Siak.\

The lazy yawning drone. Siakr/frari', ff,^yy\;,
Exe'cuter-^mip.//./. [from e^xecuter.yxhf
ofiice of him that is .ippointed
to perform'
thewillofthedefifftrt.

Bm^h

I* Performance ; practice.
When tilings are com? ta-i\ii exevtM, th.-r^

emplary perfurmance is rc<]urred.

A co{>y

adj. \Ut3va. execute.]

.

,

H.Uc.\

.

'

Addifrin.

H'ibScs, contodiidi ihc rxecui!i--c with thelraiflative!
all

well isKlitutci ftalqs

[l?c:d, Ihenim diScrtut haiid*.

i,

'

,

Ijave ever;
,

Su'ift.

Lxi't c vii\.'",l, 'y;" '[from 'execute]

^

A

Haytuard.

own fake, I3 in imitation, or rather an exemplifica-

of thee vnimauJi of thcfoult.
-

a tranfcript.

plijication ai. the articles of peace.

A love of vice, as fuch, a delighting Tn litf for its

iTbey are ihc nimWefl, agil, (Ironge'ft inftruipcr.ls,
.;

;

An iimbafTaJor of Scotland demanded an «i'wi

forming,
fittelt to be exiiiitive

Rcgers,

Kxrmpljsica'tion. n.f. [from exemflify^\

Cr^ifl-atu.

legilljtivc as well as rxecnti i-e power.

' taciM.', M,:., '

K. Charles.

'

\

Having the quality of executing or per-

pov.cr. Uioujih

had obtained all that I dcligned.

Relblv'd, as time might aid my thought, to rife,
'
Prior.
When any duty is fallen under a general difufe
and ncgleitt, in fuch a cafe the moft viliUe and r.v.

having the power to put iiv adt the laws.
^rhc Homan emperors v.crc pofTcifed of the whole,

it is
to me in

Ex«cu'tion,»./. [from <*«»•»/<..]

Vol. L

is

2. Aftive; not dcll&ratlve; not legidative;

For hlhing for tetbments and
ixeeuiorfiip,
worte, by how much men fubmu
themlelvcs

I

Such as may attraft notice and imitation.
From lliis abyfs of' (rjrfw^/arv vice

Are topis bf wrath, anvils oftorin'cnts hung,

ir

S-u.:}/!^

Awaking, therefore, as who long had drcam'd.

The. inttruincot by which any tluug

Exf'cijtive.

:.

were exemplary in the conduit of
would receive a mighty cncou,

Much of my women anil their gods artiam'd.

Sh,il:efpeare.

.

Fell executioners ol foul intents.

The fad evM juftice with his furl y hum,

BO fccrerv comj,^i*bi< lacsleiit)-,

.

The walls, abominablf ornamenb I

An executioner; one who puts others to

perfon;, than ii. feivicc

.

All along

Delireis o'er to ex, r,rer; yale

Baun.

Such as may give warning to others.
Had the tumults been reprcHed hy exemplary iuf.
ticc,

3.

and
exem~

to be

their lives, religion
ragctnent.

Shakefh.

would not be thy executioner ;
woulJnoi iiijurc thee;

pe'rfofiiied.

'

Difufed.

[hom exemplar.]

_

Thou teli'ft'me there is murierin miac eyes.

on the fecond fyllable.
Le['jchnferrcf»/c/-t, and talk nf wills
J
And yet not fo; foe what can v* bcijueatb I

P^'^'y.
,
It all thefe

z.

I fly thee, for I

,1.',

In this fenfe the accent is

.

worth : their lives and dodltines ought

Is not the caufer of the tiinelefs deaths,

Deniih.

.

adj

Such as maydeferve to be propofed to
imitation, whether perfons or things.
The archbifhops and bifhops have the government

of the church : be not you the means to prefer any to
thofe places, but only for their learning, gravity,

IVoodward.

He that kills; he that pinrthers.
as blameful as the executioner f

Sophocles

.

I.

.

'

•

Exb'mplary.

that ihould put to
death Mufidorus.
Sidney.
,The deluge waj not lent only it an executioner to
mankind, but its prime errand was to reform the

Weeps when (he fees me work, and favj fuch bafenefs
Had ne'er like execuler.
.Shake/fetre.

drath.

He that infiifts capital punilhment; he

In Scripture we find fevcral titl&s given to ChrifV,

which import his exemplarine/s as of a prince and a
captain, a mailer and a guide.
7illotfoH.

to be the fervant to the executioner

3.

My fweet miftrefs

3.

Locke.

L

Exfi'MPLARiNESS. n.f. \jitoxa exemplary .\
State of Handing as a patterf) to be copied.

He, born of the grcateA blood, fubmitted himfelf

per office.

•

now more ufed.

a comfort to the executioners of this office,
ihcy confider that they cannot be guilty of

Haketvill.

It he had (liut the commons houfe,
whiilt their
champions were excmplarily puniihed, their juriS
diftiou would probably in a Ihort time have been
brought within due limits.
Clarendon.

is

'

tr

In fuch a manner as may warn others.
Some he punilheth excmplarily in this world, that
we might from thence have a talte or glimnfe of his
future juftice.

that puts to death according to the fentence 6f the law.

Shokefpeare's Henry VI.

To E'xECUTB. ^, ». To perform the pro-

.

Hov/el.
2.

sottth.

opptdfion.
]i^^..„
iTie heart of everj- man was in the hand of God,
and he could have^ made them V-Tccwn'swri of his
wrath one upon another.
tV^^J-jLHwdU Nat. liij}.
In this cafe every man hath a right topunilh
the
oftendcr, and be the executioner of the law
of nature.

Whom with my bare fids I would execute.

She K exemplary loyal in a high exaft obedience.

He that puts in aft, or executes; in this

feiife exeniter is

Philip,.

In fuch a manner as deferves imitation.

1.

is

•

ktrxemplar fgr tfie tribe

Exe'mplarilv. ad-v. [from exemplary.]

ExEcu'rioNER. n.f. [itam execution.]

O Tyburn, coud'ft thou mtin and difpute,

If I

,

!

Of Phffibus.

Ships of fuch height and ftirngth, that his veffels
could Ji no execution upoii them.
Arbutbnot.

Spenfer.

;

the tongue

Bell poet

,

the weapon, a man may
he cannot reach, and a word fliall do
execution both further and deeper than the
mightielt

Sir William Bremingh»mwas««a/fifortreafon.

And trufs fome ftern chief juftice in bis room

Deftruftion; flaughter.
Brave Macbeth with his brandifti'd fteel,

When

To

r» -T-

bf them publickly kept.
Holder.
If he intends to murder his prince, as Cromwell
did, he muft perfuade him that he refolves nothing
but his fafety; as the fame grand exemplar hypocrify
didbefore.
So^/,^

ftrike where

.luvfi

put to death according to form of
juftice ; to punifh capitally.
filzolbom was «f.-»rf</ under him, or difcarded
into foreign fervice for a pretty fludowr of exilement.

and pounds, and then thole weights, as iliey happen
to take them, are fixed by authority, and exemplars

Creech.

Shakrfpeare.
The execution had been (00 cruel, and far exceeding the bounds of ordinary hoftiiity.
H,iyw,irJ.
J. It is ufed with the verb da.

Ahfahm pronounced fentence of death againit his
brother, and had it exerxfeJtao.
Lode.

To put to death

Rateigb.
They began at a known body, a barleycorn, thr
weight whereof is therefore called a grain; vihich

Whit-h fmok'd with bloody execution,
Carv'd out his paffage.

The gorernment here iifo regularly difpofed, that

.4.

^°^-

Siake/peare.

.

A

arifeth, being multiplied to fcruples, drachms, ounces,

And executions now atlriglit 110 more.

He cafts into th« balance the proqiife of a reward

and

IValker.

The idea ajid exemplar of the world was firft in

Laws fupport ihofe crimes they checkt before.

'

.

for learners to know,

{exemplar, Latin.]
pattern ; an exan-.ple to be imitated.

have fccu,

Repented o'er hii doom.

Againft all the gods of Egypt I will execute \a^i.

fit

Exe'mplar. n.f.

When, after rxcctttioa, judgment hath

to praftife.

exegetical notes,

not unfit tor fome teachers to read;

—

The a(3 of-

have here and there interfperfed fome critical and

I

KaTC\s.

Sir Richard was committed to the Fleet
_
in executiui for the whole fix thoufand pounds.
ClareiiJan.

'''

"«'"'•

3.

tory; expofitory.

goods.

the liver' might not only be'

See EXECT.

cutting out.

Exege'sis. w./. [i'liyijo-i;.] An explanation.

Exege'tical. adj. [i'c^iiyi,-**®-.] Explana-

by which pofleffion is given of body or

txead, but its office fupplied hy the fpletn and other
parts.
Harvey on Confumpthfts.
,

•Exe'cTioN. n.f. [from exea.'\

Dryden.

The laft aet of the law in civil caufes,

2.

ont; to cot away.
Were it not for the effufion of blood which vrould
.

the teftator.

He did, after the death of the earl, buy of hig
executrix the remnant of the term
Bacon.

I like thy counfel ;

and how well 1 lilce it,
The execution of it ihall make known.
Shake/.
The excellency of the fubjeft contribiited mUch

Ta EXE'CT. 'V. a. \execo, ,Latin.]

w'bmSn 'intfufted to perform the will of

Tlian have him hold that puipofe, and to put it
laexecilon.
Sbakefp. CorhUnu!.

imprecation of evil,
Mifchance and forrow j,o along with you.
And thrtcfold rengeance 'tend upon your ftcps !

EXE

I widi no belter,

—,

tion,

of the malice of the devil.

South.

To Exe'mpi.ifv. -v. a. {ixom exemplar.]I. To illuilrate by example.
This might be cxemplijied even by heaps of rite»
andcuftoms, now fuperllitious in the greateft part of
the Chriftian world.

tijoker.
Our author has exemptijitd his precepts in the very
precepts thcmfelvcs.
Spectator.,

A latiremay be «fffi/Zyfri/ by piftures, charadter'',
and etamjileii.
Pipe.

I

4

'"^

«.

To

EXE

The judge may oblige every exertent ijvoeate to
give

1.

aJ/.

1.

.

in a day, which

Free by privilege.

I

I"

\)pan thy throat, and Vive exempt.
From all the nets that thou canti Iprcad. B. yonfin.
No man, not even the moft pawert'ul among the
fonsofmcn is ^x^^r^/ irom the chances of humn/i
life.
Atlcrburj.
The god conftrains the Greek to roam,

nefs.
He was ftrong of body, and fo much the ftronger
as he, by a well-difcipliued exercije, taught it both
to do and to fuffer.
Sidney.
The French apply thcmfelves mort unirerfally ta
their exercijcs than any nation : one feldom fees a
young gentleman that does not fence, dance, and ride.

A hopelels exile from his native home.
From death alone txempt,
3. Clear ; not included.
-*

Pope't Oiyjfg.

His dreadful imprecation hear;
*Tis laid on all, not any one exempt, Lee*t Oedipus.

Difufed.
4. Cut off from.
Wai not thy father for treafon 'headed \
Shak.

[from exemptJ] Immunity; privilege from evil ; freedom
from impofts orburdenfome employments.
The like exemption hath the writ to enquire of

a man's death, which alio muA he granted freely.
£aeon.
The Roman laws gave particular exemptions to

6. Praflice; outward performance.
Lewis relufed even thofe of the church of Eng-

who followed their mailer to St. Cjermain's,
the pub!ick«erf;//'of their religion.
Addi/an.

land,

The learning of the fituations and boundaries of
kingdoms, being only an excici/e of the eyes and
memory, a child with pleafure will learn them.

Ariuib/ioi.

;

Locke.
Children, by the exerci/e of their fenfes about objefls that atfea them in the womb, receive fome few
ideas before they are b»rn.
Locke.
Exerci/e is very alluring and entertaining to the
underllanding, while its reafaning powers are employed without labour.
Watts.

another.
If the motion were loofe or exemptitlous from
matter, I Qould be convinced that it had extenfion

More.

,

7e ExE'NTERATi. «. et. {extntero, Latin ]
To embowel ; to deprive of the entrails.

A toad contains not thofe urinary parts which arc

8.

feund in other animals to avoid that (erous excretion,
which may appear unto any that exenterates or
difleits them.
Brawn.

Patience is more oft the exerci/e

That tyranny or fortune can infliA.

bowelling.

•*lli«.
ailj.

[from exeattitt,

Funeral; relating to funerals.

E'xFQuiEs. »./. without
tquite,

Latin.]

Milton.

Brotvn.

Aft of divine worihip, whether publick
or private.
Good fir John,
I'm in your debt fcTr your \z^ exerci/e

Latin.]

Come the next Sabbath, and I will content you.

9.

on flies, caterpillars, beetles, and other infefts ; but
upon exexieraiioH he found ihefc animals in their

£xE'qj;iAL.

Talk; that which one is appointed to
perform.

Of faints, the trial of their fortitude
Making them each his own deliverer.
And viilor oi*r all

Ex-entera'tion. »./. [exevteratio, Latin.]
The a^ of taking out the bowels ; emBelonnius not only affirms that chamelions feed

Dia.

a lingular. \exthe cere-

Funeral rites;

L»ekc.

To train by ufe to any a<S.

l<t's not forget

The noble Duke of Bedford late deceas'd.
But fee his exequies fulfill'd in Roan.
Shake/.
The tragical end of the two brothers, whofe »<y<w(j the next fucceObr had leifure to perform.
Dryden.
JEXF/RCBNT, aJj. [exercens, Latin. ] I'rac-

tifmgj following any calling Of vocation.

it

The Roman tongue was the ftudy of their youth :
was their own langu^^e they vein, inltruded and

exer(i/ed\n.

3.

Locke.

To make Ikiiful or dexterous by practice
to habituate.
Sttong meat belongcth (o them who, hy rlafsn of

ufe, have

and evil,

tJieix feiilij cxcrii/ed to

difcern both good

lUir.

To exert

;
to put in ufe.
The princes of the Gentiles exerci/e dominion

m

8.

To pradice or nfc in order to habitual
flcill.

To you fuch fcabb'd harih fruit is given, as raw
Young foldiers at their exerciftngs gnaw.
Dryden,.
Mean while I'll draw up my Numidian troop
Within the f(]uare, to fJrtrci/i their arms.

To E'xEReiSE. v. n.

Addi/on,

To ufe exer<:ife ; to.

labour for health or for amufement.

The Lacedemonians
fport, and Alexander the
at it.

E'x E R c 1 s ER.

w. /.

were remarkable for the
Great frequently exerci/ed
Broome.

Exercita'tion. v./,
1.

Ho

[from exerd/i.[

.that direfts or ufes exercife.

£>/<?.

[exereifatte,

Exercife.
It were fome extenuation of the

Latin.]

curfe, if in /»•

dore vultus tui were confiiiable unto corporeal exrr.
cittitions,

2.

Brnu*.

Praftife; nfc.

By frequent exercitutlons wt form them within utt
t'ellen.

To EXERT.
1.

i».

a.

[exero, Latin.]

To ufe with an effort; to ufe with ardour and vehemence.
When the fervice of Britain requires your courage

and condutt, you may exert them both.
Whate'er I am, each faculty
The utmofi power of m-j exerted foul,
Preferves a being only for your fervice.
2. To put forth to perform.

Drydem,

Jleieie,

When the will has exerted an aft of commaid
upon any faculty of the foul, or member of the body,
it lias done all that the whole roan, as a moral
agent, can do for the adlual exercife or employment
ol fuch a faculty or member.
Stutb.
enforce ; to pufh to an effort. VN'ith
3.

To

the reciprocal pronoun.
Strong virtue, like ftrong nature; ftruggles (Wl
£.v«7i itfelf; aiyi then throws off the ill. Dryden.

4.

To bring out.
The fcvcr.il parts lay hidden in the piece,
Th' occa6on but excited that or this.
Dryden.

This faculty of the mind, when it is exerci/ed
immediately about things, is called judgement.
z.

all offices

Their confcieaoes oblige t
to fubmit to that
dominion which tUeix governors had a right to ex~
erci/e over them.
Lotke.

;

For this word ohfequiet is often ufcd, but

is,

over them, and they that are great exerci/e authority
upon them.
Mait. xi.

Sbake/p.

To E'xERCiSE. -v. a, \exerceo, Latin.]
I. To employ
to engage in employment.

inody of burial ; the proceflion of burial.
not fo propcrjy.

7.

Employment frequently repeated.

7.

Exempti'tious. aJ/. [from exemptus, Lat.
Separable that which may be taken from

of its own.

are granted to him and hi]
deputy : for he may exerci/e them by his friend.
Bacon's EJ/ays,
Age's chief arts, and arms, are to grow wife
Virtue to know, and, known, to exerci/e. Denbam,

atSual application of any thing.

regimen over us in this
prefent world, is at thelength to be yielded up into
the hands of the Father which gave i'tj that is, the
ufe and exerci/e thereof (hall ceafc, there being no
longer on earth any militant church to govern.
Hooker.

». /•

fuch as built Ihipt or traded in corn.

Ufe ;

The fceptre of fpiritual

Corrupted and exempt from ancient gentry ?

is

as,
5.

;

friendlhip

Preparatory pradlice in order to Ik ill
the exerci/e of foldicrs.

4.

To pradife to perform.
A man's body
confined to a place; wbcK

6.

AJdifon.

And by his treafon ltand*tt not thou attainted,

Exe'mption.

Habitual aftion by which the body is
formed to gracefulnefs, air, and gentle-

To talk; to keep employed as a penal
Sore travel hath God given to the (bnsof man, ta
be exerci/ed therewith.
Etcl, i. IJ,
Where pain of unextinguilkaHe fire
Muft exerci/e a% without hope of end.
MiltM,

thinking nevcrthelefs to perform all things
rather as an exercife than as a labour.
Bacon.

A fpirit fu refolvcd to tread

; to keep bufy.
He will exerci/e himfelf with pleafure, and witli-

injunction.

fafety,

3.

£K} not once hope, that thoj can'il tempt
.

5.

miles.

The pureft exerdfe of health.
The kind refrelher of the Summer heats, tbomfon.
z. Something done for amufement.
As a watchful king, he would not negleft hii

not liable to.

;

is about nine Eiiglilh

To bufy

out wearinefs, in that godlike employment of doing
good.
Attertmy.

Ariulbnol on Coins,

An abbot cannot, without (he confeat of his con-

Not fubjed

4.

He is exaA in prefciibing the exercifes of bis
patients, ordering fome of them to walk eighty ftadia

Sba.kf/p.

%.

And now the goddefs, exercit'd in ill.

Who watch 'd an hour to work her impious will,
Afcends the roof.
Dryden't Mh,

Labour of the body; labour confidered

and a fpare diet both; but if much exerci/e, a plentiful diet; if fparing diet, little «er«/f.
Bacon.
The wife for cure on exercije depend
God never made his work for man to mend. Dryd.

[from the verb.}

»eot, fubjctt a monaltery to any, fit>m whofe jurifdiclion fiich moiiaitcry was extrapteJ,
AjUffe.

in

Ajl.

as conducive to the cure or prevention
of difeafes.
Men ought to beware that they ufe not rxn-fZ/i;

Be it my wrong you are from me exempt i
But wrong not that wrong with a mere contempt.

,

an advocate.

Reafon, by itt own penetration, where it U ftrall(
and exerci/ed, ufually fees quicker and clearer without fyllogifm,
l^cke.

E'XERCISK. «./. {exercitiusn, Larin.]

The religious were not rxempleJ, but fought among
the other fold iers.
KruJIii 't Hifi. of the Turki.
Th« emperors ixempted them from all taxes, to
which they fubje£lcd merchants without exception.
Arhuihmt en Cai'itt.

Ex-'mpt.

his patronage and affiftance onto a litigant

diftrefs for want of

Things done well,
And with a care txemfi thcmfelves from fear
Things done without example ill their iifue
Are to be fcar'd>
Shekrff.

'

EXE

EXE

«. To tranferihe ; to copy : in the juridical
fenfe, to take an attefted copy.
To EXE'MPT. <v. a. [exempt us, Latin.] To
privilege ; to grant immunity from.

5.

To emit; to pulh out.; to put forth.
The orchard loves to wave
With winter winds, before the gems ixert
Their feeble heads.
Phlliplm
The ftars, no longer overlaid with weight
Exert their heads from underneath the mafs.
And upward Ihoot, .ind kindle as they pafs.

And with diffufive light adorn the heavenly place.
Dryden.

Exe'rtion.

n.f,

[from txert.^

The

aft

of exerting ; cfibrt,

£xe'iion.

EX H

E X H
Etfsjon, «f, /.

[(xe/us,

of eating through.
Theophrallus denied

To drain

1

the

exejion or forcing of

vipers througli the belly of the dam.

Bacon.
Spermatick matter of a vilious fort abounds in tl;e
blood, exbauJIs it of its bell fpitits, and drives tl'.e

it

in fevers, to allay the

inward

fxrjluaiiont of the blood and humours.

fo Exfo'liate.
Latin.]

t,

«.

Exhilarates their languid minds, within

[fx and folium,

To (hell off; feparate, as a cor-

our ftudy, yet they exhaujled not all its treafures
they left a great deal fdr the induHry and fagacity of

A term

after-ages,

Locke.

of chirurgery.

.

Exhilaration hath fdfce affinity with joy, though
it be

a much lighter motion.

We

to walk, fo ye would abound.

Exfolia'tion, »./. [from *.r/»/y<j//.] The
Its native poverty again prevails.
Philips.
procefs by, which the corrupted part of Exha'ustion. ». /. \{xomexhaufi.^ The
the bone feparates from the found.

aft of drawing or draining.

that tut of the bor.e, and malcc fxfdiatUK of what
is necefTary, and iocarn it.
H^ifman'i Surgery.

to be emptied ; not to be all drawn off;
incxhauftibie.
Of heat and light, what everduring ttaxa
Brought from ihe fun's exhaujilefs yAitn Ihores,
Through gulphs immenfc of intervening air,

K the bone be dreftd, the flelh will foon arife in Exha'ustless. adj. Sixam exhauji.'\ Not Exhorta'tion. tt. f.

Exha'lable. adj. [from exhale.'\ That
which may be evaporated or exhaled.

Enrich the earth, and every lofs repair.

1 .

The fire may refolve fome of the more fpirituotis

they Ihould
txbibit their petitions in the ftreet.
Sbakefp.
He fuffertd his attorney-general to exiiiil a charge
Clarendon.
of high treafon againll the earl.

and fxhalaile parts, whereof diltiUation has thcwa

me that alabalier it not deltituie, iuto vapours.

ExftALA'TioN. ». / [txbalaiio, Latin.]
f. The aft of exhaling or fending out In
vapours; eraifiion.
The flate of evaporating or flying out
in vapours; evaporation.
3, That which rifes in vapours, and fometimes takes the form of meteors.
B.

No nat'ral exhalatim in the (kf,
Ko'fcapeof nature, nodillemper'd day^
But they would pluck away its natural caule.
And call them metcori, prodigies, and ligns.
Shaief^eare.

2.

What are alt mechanick works, but the fenfibic
txhibitiott oi

2.

fumes.
Yon light if not daylight, I know it well

3.

Am exhales,

'I'o be 10 thee this

night a torch-bearer.
Sbakefp,
myfelt with the hopes that the va|).)ur

Dryden.

To draw out.

See, dead Henry's wounds
Open their congcal'd mouths, and bleed afrelh !
Biufh, bIu(h,thou lump ot foul defurniity

For 'tis Ihyprefence that«ia/rj this blood
From cold aod empty Teins, where no blood dwells
Shakrjprure.

«,

Exha'limest.
ter exhaled ;

»./. [from txhali,\

Mat-

vapour.

Nor will polifhed amber, although

it fend

forth a

frofj and corporal exbalrmcnl, he found a long time
iticaive upgirthe eXaCleft fcilcj,
Bniun.

not encourage publick beneficence,

we are fecure that no ftorm (hall overturn what

to charity.

Atlcrhiiry.

The form of words by which one is ex«
horted,

I'll end my exhorlatioil after dinner,
Sbakefp,
Exho'r-T ATORY. adj, {from exbort.] Tend-

ing to exhort.

Exho'rter,

One who

n. /, [{xom exhort.]

exhorts or encourages by words.

To EXl'CCATE. V.

a. [ex/!cco,Laun.]

dry ; to dry up.

To

Z>/V9,

Exicca'tio.n. «.y; [Jxom fxi£at(.]
A refaftion
aft of drying up
ftate of being
;

;

dried up.

What IS more eafily refuted than that old vulgar
an univcrfal drought and exiccalioa of
the earth? As if the fun could evaporate the Jeaft
drop of its moilturc, fo th.it it Ihould never dcfcend
again, but be attraiAed and elevated quite out ot.tha
atmofphcre.
Benlley^
alTcrtion of

Exi'cCATiVE.Oi//. \^XQ,xxivxicciitf.\^ Drying
in quality; having the power of dryino;.
E'xiGENCE.
«. /. [This word is probaE'xiGENCv. J bly only a corruption of
exigents, vitiated by an unikilful pronunciation.]

crave fit difpofilion for my wife.

Demand; want; need.

1.

Sbakefp.

As men, wc are at our own choice, both for time
and place and form, according to the exigence of

What maintenance he from his friends receives.
Like exhiiitlen thou flialt have from me.
Shake/.
All was afligncd to the army and garrifons there,
and ihe received only a penfion or ixkiiiiian out ol
his coffers.
Bacon,
He is now ncglefled, and driven to lite in exile
upon a fmall exbibitic/n.
Swft..

our own occafions in private.
Ild6ker.
You have heard v. hat the prefent condition and
exigencies of tliefe f'.vcral charities are.
Atterb'ury.
While our fortur.cs exceed not the nieafure ot real
convenience, and are adapted to the exigriicii^ of
our iHtion, we perceive the hand of KiOviJenif in
our gradual and fuccelTive fupplies.
R ,',ers.

Payment; recompcnce.

Reprc-

fentative ; difplaying.
Truths muft

To EXHl'LARATE. -v. a. \exkiIaro, Latin.]

fudden or-

Now in fuch exigencies not to ncedj
Up m my word you muft be rich indeed

an eternal exiilence in fome
underftandingj or rather, they ate tlie fame with
that undcrftanding itfcif, confidcred as varioully exh.>ve

bibifive or rcpnfentMyr, according to various modes
of in'mitabiiiiy or participation.
Norris.

diftrefs;

calion.
Thij dilTimulatioii in war may be Called rtr-itagew
and condudlj in other ct-g^ncies addrefi and dci.
te.ity.
Broime.

not do fuch a thing for gowns, petticoats,
nor caps, nor any petty exhiiitlon.
Sbakefp,

Exhi'bitive. adj. [ixoTXi exhibit.]

Prefflng, neceffity;

2,

I would

bad been exhaled.
'Temfte,
Fear frceus minds) but love, likeheat>
Exhales the foul fublimc to leek her native feat.

2.

:

Due preference o! f\.v:t aod exMilioit,
As levels with her breeding,

-v. a. \exhah, Latin.]
or draw out in vapours or

to

"1

Grtiv.

Allowance; falary; penfion it is much
ufed-for penfions allowed to fcholars at
I

To EXHA'LE.

flattered

mathematick demoDllrations !

incitement

we help to build, there is no room for exhortations

the univerfity.

Milton.
It is no wonder if the earth be often (haken,
there being quantities of exhaUiiom within thofe
mines, or cavernous pafTages, that are capable of
rarefadtion and inflammation.
Burn.
The growing low'islike exbalmims rife.
And the huge columns heave into the Ikies.
Poft.

1

He that

forth.

Rofe like an exiaUiim, with the found

It is fome meteor that the

to difplay.

any thing, as a petition or charge,
in a publick manner.
He fcems indifferent.
Or rather fw.iying more upon our part.
Than cherilhiiig ih' exhibiiers agamtl us,
Siak.
ExhiTbi'tioH, ft./. [fxoxl\ exMit.]
1. The aft of exhibiting; difplay; fetting

Of dulcet fymphonies and voices fweeL

To fend

'till

offers

A fabrlck huge

».

;

Exhi'biter. n. /,\Jxoxxiexhiliit.']

exbalationt \ which, condenfed by a popular odium,
re capable to call a cloud upon the brighteft merit

XixgCburlet.

To fhow

of injuAice,

One of an unfortunate conftitution is perpetually
txbikiiing a nuferablc example of the weakncfs of
mind and body.
Pcfe.

Moving in fo high a fphere, and with fo vigorous
t lultrr, h« muft needs, at the fijn, raife many envious

and integrity.

claim redrefs

[hoxn exhort.]

The adl of exhorting;

good.
If we will

2,

To offer to view or nfe ; to offer or
propofe in a formal or publick manner.
If any

1.

Blackmtsre,

To EXHl'BIT. 'V. a. [exhibio, Latin.]

Tl'ejf.

My duty is \o exhort you to confider the dignity
of that holy myftery.
Common Prayer.
Defigniag or exhorting glorious war.
Milton,

I

liation.

i o

befeech you, and exhort you by the Lord
Jefus, that as ye have received of ut, how you ought

Seems fair awhile, cherifti'd with fbller earth
But when the alien compoft is exbaujt,

Exfol'jative. aiy, \ixoityxf!>liate.'\ '1 hat
which has the power of fvocuring exfo-

Bacof

To EXHO'RT. -v. a. [exhoriar, Latin.]
incite by words to any good aftion.

The nurftling grove

Our work went on ruccefsfullv, the bone exfiUjiing from the edges.
U'ifeman's Surgery.

Drcfs the bone with the milder exfiHativet, 'till
iKc burnt boue is caft off.
H'iftman's Surgery.

Philips,

IVifeman.

To draw out totally ;
thing is left.
Though the knowledge they have left us be worth

2

Boyle.

rupt bone from the found part.

Their vaults, and with her former liquid giftt

The golden mean confin'd.
^

Exhilara'tion. n./. {fxoxa exMarate,
1
The aft of giving gaiety.
to draw 'till no2. The ftate of being enlivened.

flower of it to the feminal velfels,

in operation a cold body : phvficians

and chymirts give

by

Single men be many tiraaf more charitable, be

fervefcence ; ebullition.
is

to diminifh ; to deprive

caufe their means are lefs exhaujltd.

of boiling; tumultuous heat; ef-

Saltpetre

;

Ahout their /piritt had play'tf, and mmolt pow'ra
'
Made err, was now exhal'd.
MilUHi
Let them thank
Boon nature, that thus annually fupplies

draining.

Brotvn.

ExESTt;A'TioN. »./. [c.vtf^aa, Latin.] The
ftatc

E X t

The aifl To EXHAUST. t>. a.

Latin.]

I

A noble fuperlluity it cra\'cs.
Not for yourfelf, but for your fools and knaves.

PlM,

E'xiOBNT. w./. \exigevs,\M\x\.]
Prcding bufincfs; occafion that requ'"-»

t.

To make cheerful; to cheer; tb fill with

immediate help.

mirth; to enliven ; to glad; to gladden.
The coming into a fair garden, the coming into a

In futh an cyigint I fee not how they could h.^*
ftaid to deliberate about- any other regimetir lh»n
that which already was devifcd to their hands.

fair room richly furnilhed, a beautiful peifon, and
the like, do delight, and exhilaraie the fpirits much.

Hook.-r, Preface.

The council met, your guards (o fi.nd you lent,.
And know yoir pleafure in tiiis exigent.
H'ajl^ r.

Bacon's NalHrni ilijiory.

The force of that fallacious fruit.
That wiih exbilaraiing vafouri blaal

,

2.

[A li^w term,]

4X1

A writ fuqd when the
defendant

E\

EX O

I

defendant is not to be found, being part
of the procefs leading to an outlawry.
Shaie/jteare ufes it for any extremity.

For rtW/y'of the

the voice doth pafs through folid and I
hard bodies, if they be not too thick; and through I

water, which is likfwife a very dofe body, und fuch
Bacon.
an one as lettcth not in air.
body, by being fubtilized, can lofe iwthing ot
its corjioreity; neither can it hereby gain any tiling
but ixiliiy; for all degrees of fubtility are elTentially
the fame thing.
Grnv,

A

End.
Thcfe eyes, like lamps whofc wafting oil is fpent,
Shakejpt
Wax dim, as drawing to their exigent.

ExiGu'iTY. «./. [exiguitas, Latin.] Small-

Exi'guous.

eminent ; confpicuous ; excellent.

ExiN ani'tion.

Boyle &» Citlours.

Small;

adj. [e.vfgum, Latin.J

diminutive ;

little.

Privation ; lofs.

Not ufed.

He is not more impoteiit iiiliSsllot^ thaii he was

«. /. [exiliiim, Latin.]
It feems
anciently to have had the accent indif-

either

binatiou does not always cxifl together in nature.

Locke.

Shakefp,

One year is pad, a different fcenel
No farther mention of the dean

V/e\comc is exi/e, welcoine were my death.
Shakefp.
Let them pronounce the fte?p Tarpeian death,
Vagabond exile, flaying, pent to linger,
But with a grain ot day, 1 would not buy
Their mercy at the price of one fair word. Shaiefp,

Than if he never did cxifi.

poffelTiort

Nor

An exile from his dear paternal coalV,
Deplor'd his abfent queen, and empire loft.

Fopr.

X'xiLE. <j<^'. ffr/Z/V, Latin.]

Small; flender; not full; not powerful.
Not in
ufe, except in philofophical writings.
Jt were good to enquire what means may be to

draw forth the

exile heat which is in

tTie

•

\Vheh it is confidered as aflual,

before the creation.,

W.hatfoever tign the fun polTelVed, whofe recels or
derineih the quarters of the year, th'ofe

lable, now generally on the

though

feafons were a*5fually r.r///V///.

The eyes and minds

Drydetu has ufed both.]
To banifh ; to
drive front a country ; to tranfport.
Call home our txil'd friends abroad.

'

And all the men and women mcci-ly players
They have their exttt and their enitances,
£hak.
Aaid ore mail in his time flays many paru.
A regard tor fame becomes a man more towards
than at his c;iira,-ice into lite,

S-.t.ifi.

,

Manyof your old comrades live a Ihort life, and
make a figure at their c»V.
PaflTagc out of any place.
3
In fuch a pcrvjcius
•

1

1.

Wihat fignifies the.fia(on of the tortoife riding
upon the wings of the wind, but toprelcribe botin^s
and tBcjfures loour ex«)^Va<.'f pallious! U£/irayrge,.
Thefe phenomena are not peculiar to earthquakes
in our times, bat have been oblerved in all ages, a.nd
particularly thofe exoraitani commotions of the wa-

'

3.

its Ordinary i-ar(/.t,

If-'eodit'tird.

terious.
Myiil

a

H'aidward's Nat. Hifi,

tled rule or method.

The J>»s,

fatal;

LaK]

Deftruc-

mortal;

dele-

Not in ufe.

txiiiai Cevcrt>. altlioit^h

wlto had laws

'

'

fcr particularly .deter-

mining in all affairs what to do, were notwiiliwith caufes exorbitant,
and fuch IS their laws had not provided for. Hooker.

ftandirig continually Inuied

wcUsj and the ojtlcis of

'\ifdj. [txT/m/t'r,

tive;

...

'

rivers.

Exi'rious. J

theglobe.

Aiwmalous ; not comprehended in a fet-

:

The lire rnakes iis way, forcing the water forth

Exi'tiai..

Deviating frgin the courfe appointed or
rule eftablilhed.

Way by which tncre is a paflHge out.
ihcough

Going out of the prefcribed track.

ters of

fubllaficc as the brain,

Garth.

Exo'reiitant. adj. [ex and oriito, Latifi.]

Svi/},

•

they
might Cnd ^n eafy eiltidt (otr^t^e fft exit, almoif
every where.
C^/j;^.ii'/^_

4.

ilvifi»

Boundlefs depravity.
They riot iVill,

3.

z.

All the world's a llage,

for

fmalliicfs ; diminution.
Certain Hies, called epl'cmcia, live but a d.iy
tbecaufe is the exility oi the fpirit, or ptrh^ips th:
iibfciKt of the fun,
B.teM.

fuch exiriitanties as could not end but in the dilfo.
lution of the government.

TJnbounded in exarkilance of ill.

Reccfs; departure; aft of quitting the
ftagc; aft of quitting the theatrd'ot life.

From faltpetre proceedeth the force and report of

jiefs;

•

'

off the ftagc.
2.

.

Enormity; grofs deviation from rule ot

right.
I fee feme of this fault ctMve to thofe, who have
eminently correfled all tthtt *xoruilancies of the
tongue.
Gtrt'. Tongue,
"The rewrcnce of my prefence may be a curt* ta
Vryden's Spanfjh Ftyar.
your exorbitanciet.
'
The people were giofly impofed on, to commit

;

1

tlie exit

if? OU'tt.

fcribed.

2.

'

<

Sknder-

:

Opinion.
Erteem.
E'xiT. It./, [exit, Latin.]
'1 he term fct in the margin of plays to
mark, the time at which the plajer goes

Banilh-

Ktzcfborn was difcardcd into foreign feivice for a
pretty ftjadow of exiUment.
kVotlon!

Exi'litv. ». /. [«*/«,. Ijitin.]

j

The aft of going out of the traft prc-

1

on objects
they were truly
Dryden,

as if

1.

"

fulphur aod f'nall-coal mixt, will
KO! take lire with t»ife or exbitiiiort;, aad powder,
which is made of impuje mi grcafy peirc, hath
but a weak cminion„and givtibut a faint report.

defire,

E'xoRABLE. adj. [exttrabili!-, Latin.] Tabc
moved by intreaty.
Exo'rbltance. ) ». /. [from exorbitdttce,
Exo'rbita.ncy. J Fr.]

2.

'

fuupowder:

Ex'opt;Able. adj. [(•A-o//(7i///'>, Latin.] Da.
fireable; to be fought with eagernefs or

fattened

;

DfyJeft^

Exili'tton. n. J. [exilith, Latin.] The
aft of fpringingor rufliiog out fuddcnly,

The body is adapted unto eating, drinking, nutri^op, and othfr way» of repletion and exoneration,

Existim.^'tion. tt.f. \exiftmatio, Latin.]

Dry/fen.

<

'

exijleni.

Ityd. xvii. 2.
His brutal manners from his breait exil'd,
Mil mien he fafliion'd, and bis tongue he hi'd,

ment.

aft of dift)urthening, or difcharging..

Brovi'n.

are

which have no real being,

That fled the fnatcs of watchful tjranny.

K;tpcl'd andfjr/W.

circumgirated, and complicated, give the blood time
to feparate through the capillary velTels into the
fecretory ones, wliich alter«-aids all exonerate cliem/^

1

Ext'sTEjfT. c/^'. [from <^.] Having being; in pofleliionof being or of exigence.
vicinity

Eiti'LEMENT. n.j,\itQmtxilf.'\

IValU.

then it is faid tphave w/y/i-ncealfo.

This

Arms and the man I fing, who forc'd by fate,
And haughty Junn'» unrelenting hate,

Hale.

'

to have an ed'cRce or nature: fuch were alj things

laft fyl-

'

'

When a being is confideted as pollible, it is laid

had formerly the accent on the

'

To EXO'NERATE. -v. a. [exontro. Latin.]
To unload ;^d difburthen ; to free from
any heavy ^H^e.
The glands being a congeries of veCels curled,

The foul, Iccur'd in her exifjence, fmiles

air: for

Shakefp.
Foul lubordination is predominant*
And equity exil'd your highucfs' land.
Shakefp.
For t*lat offence,
Immediately we do exile him hence.
Shakefp.
They, fettered with the bonds of a long night,
lay there exiled from the eternal Providence.

A

navel rupture.

of being.

At the drawn dagger, and deh.es its point. Addifon.

Baton.
weather.
In a vii^inal,' when the lid is down, it maketli a
more exiU fbttnd than when the lid is open. Baeon,

firft,

Exo'MrHA'Los. n.f. [«| and of<«fi«A®-.]

is

faiily concomitant unto It.

that may be a fectet of great powej- ta produce cold

5e E'xiLE. T. a. [from the noun.

Contidering the exolution and languor enfuing that
ia fomc, we cannot but think it much
abridgeth our days.
Bro^vn'i Vulg. Err.
a<5iioD

Svcnft.

only the exijlcncy of this animal coAfiderable, but many things delivered thereof. Bro-wn.
It is impoffible any being can be eternal with
fuccclEve eternal, pliylical chinges, or variety of
ftatcs or manner of cxifiency naturally and necef-

Dryden.

Uiyfles, fole of all tiie viftor triin,
,

»./. [«o//rfK>, Latin.] Laxation of the nerves.

Exi'stenCe. \n-f \exiftentia, low Latin.]
fclves into one common ductus.
Rjiy*
Exi'sTENCY. / State of being; aftual Exonera'tion.
71./. [from exotitrate,'\ The

The perfon banifhed.
Nor after length of rowling years return ?

DUI.

loofe ; to pay.

Exolu'tion.

:

O muft the wretched (•jr/Av evermourn^
'

Exoi.e'te. adj. [exoletus, Latin.] Obfolete.j
out of ufe.
Diif.
To Exo'lve. 'V. a, [ixol'va, Latin.] To

Who now, alas, no more Is raiil

•

3.

In all probability liieir years continued to be
and fixty-five days, ever fince t'ls
time of the Jewifti exodi at leatt.
Hale,

three hundred

'

It is eafy to conceiTC that an Almighty Power
might produce a thing out of nothing, andr make
which did not r*.^ bclore ; a^
to conceive the world to have had no beginning, bjt
So«tb.
to have cxifled from eternity.
It feems reafonable lo cnquife, how fuch a miltitude comes to make but one idea,' fince that com-

uniformly on the firft.J
I. Banilhment; ftate of being banifhed
from one's country.
Our Itate of bodies would bewray what life
We've led fince thy exile.

Departure;
/.
[«4«^.]
E'xoDi. J journey from a place; the
fecond book of Mofes is fo called, be-;
caufe it defcribes the journey of the
Ifraelites from Egypt.

xh.it to exiji de novo,

now it ii

fyllable:

D^cay of Piety.
To be ;

To EXrST. 1/. Jt. {exiflo, Latin.]
to have a being.

E'XILE.

on

"

.

in his*vv/«tfW//o;:,

Their Tubtilc pads and txig'Mus dofe are confumcd
and evaporated in lei's than two hours time.
Harvey.

ferently

E'xoDus, In.

Diil.

Latin.]

\exinanhio,

n, /,

oM

Harvey.

buncles, are to be cenfured pcllilential.

Exi'mious. fl<^'. [<jf;V»/w, Latin.] Famous;

nefs ; diminutivenefs ; Ilendernefs.
The ex.'^uiiy and Ihape of tlie ettant particles is
nowfupjM^Ied.

with the tokens, exantliemaiai anthracci, or

certaiti that

Hanmtr.
3.

voice, or other founds, it isf

4.

Enormous ; beyond due proportion ;. cxcedive^

arc too fj'lenJid lor the territories.

not concomitaKd

;

Tiicir fubjeft* would live in great pkoty, were
not the impolitions fo very rtcoiiiiant ; tor the courtj
.

Add.fcn,

Sa cuiUcfs and tx'orbiiaal are the dcfircs of men,
tkut

EXP

E X O
rtat they will grifjp at all, andean form no fdieme
of pcrfci^hiopincfs with lefs.
Stiifi.
9^0 Exo'rbiS^te. f. ».
[i-r and orb:to.

Latin.]
To devial- ; to go out of the
track or road prefcribcd.

''

The plaD£ts fomelimes would have

approached

as near as the o:b of Mercury, and I'ometimes have exirhitatcd beyond the dilUuce of Saturn.
tlie fun

•

of adjuration.

And fr) 'rj, that through the wealthy regions run,
Rcfort to farmers rich, and blcfs their halU,

Dtyd

* And exorcije the beds, and crofs the wails.

One who

E'x o R CI s £ R . ?/./. [ from exorci/e. ]

Btcwn.
pendulous in the air.
An aniinal growing, expands its fibres in tlie air
as a fluid.
Arbuthnot on Air.
Along the ftream of time thy name
Expanded flies, and gathers all its fame.
Pope.

Into a liquid plain; then flood uumov'd,
Pure as Ui' expanfeof heav'n.
Milton.
Bright as th' ethereal glows the green expanfe.

They had a cuftom of ofieiing the tongues to Mercury, becaiife they believed him the giver of elo-'
qucnce : Dacier expatiates upon this cuftom. Z^rocra^.
3.

*

fupematural means; namely, by devout prayers or

•

exorcifmi

Spreads in a fecond circle, then a third
Wide, and more wide, the floating rings advance.
Fill all the wat'ry plain, and to the margin dance.
Pope.

E'XORCIST. n./. ri|»»xi«T!«.]
I. One who by adjurations, prayers, or reJigioos afls, drives away malignant fpirits.
Then certain
took upon them

of the vagabond Jews,

Expansabi'lity. ». /. [ftom exfanJibU.]
Capacity of extenfion ;

txorcijit,

An enchanter

;

there is fome diflTerence in bulk, by which the
atoms in one fluid are diflinguilhed from thofe of
another; elfe al) fluids would be alike in weight,
expanjibility, and all other qualities.
Grevj.
fluids,

Soul of Rome
Thou, like an exsrfi^, had conjur'd up
mortified fpirit.
Shakefpeart* s Julius Cafar,

My

Expa'nsible. adj. [from M/a»/?//, Latin.]

Is there no exurcifl
Sejuites the truer oSice of mine eyes ?
I

Capable to be extended ; capable to fpread
into a wider furface.

Shakefptart.

fee ?

EXO'RDIUM. «. /.

[Latin.]

be

expanded or fpread into a wider furface.
With the rotundity common to the atoms of all

them which had evil
Ant, xii. 13.
a conjuror. Improperly,

to call over

fpirits.

poffibility to

A formal

preface ; the proemial part of a

compo-

To have a previous apprehenfion of
cither good or evil.
We expeHed
Immediate dilToUition.
Mitlox.

1.

Needs mull the ferpent now his capital bruife
ExpeS! with mortal pain.
Miltoit,
Good with had
Expefl tohesr, (iipernal grace contending

With finfulnefs of man.
Mihm.
Eve, now er/>ei?7 great tidings.
Miitm.
2. To wait for ; to attend the coming.

The guards,
By me encamp'd on yonder hill, txpeCt
Their motion.
Mi/ton.
While, expedi/Tg there the queen, he rais'd
His wond'ringeyes, and round the temple gaz'd.
Oryden.
To Expe'ct v. n. To wait; to ftay.
ElHiu had expeB.d till Job had fpoken. '
J,i.

Expr.'cTABLE.

- feafofvof long prefaces and txordlumK

feemeth that

all

thofe

ihouid rather ceafe.
Hjperbolical exornatkia

curioiu exornalitnt

The cafy expanjlon of the wing of a bird, and

and elegancies many

the lightnefs, ttrengllt, and Ihapc of the feathers, are
all fitted for her better flight.
Grciv.

Hale.

Exo'ssATED.

adj.

[exoj/etus,

—

prived of bones.

De-

Latin.]

3.

tuberance of a bone that h not natural,
as often happens in venereal cates.
ai/J.

\fx

and

Wanting bones ; bonelcfs ;

Latin.]
tbrnied with-

ojfa,

out bones.
Thus we dally obferve in the heads of fifhes» as
alfo in fnails and foft cxt,Jfniii aniinaU, nature near

the head hath placed a Sat white Hone, or teftaceou-.
concretion.

Exo'ncK.

Brc-an
adj.

1

The aft or ftate of- expefting ; expefta<»
tion.
Every moment is exfeSaney
Of more arrivance.
Sbakefpearc's OibelU.
Or elfe rail upon the moon.
Your expiSla/ee is too foon

;..

lor beibre the lecond cock

Crow, the gates will not unlock.

Extent ; fpace to which any thing is ex-

Ben. yi'i/dn,

Tiiis blclled fj[/it<S'<i/»f f niuft be now my theme.

Boyli^

The capacious mind of man cannot be confined
by the limits of the world it extends iis thoughts
even beyond the utmotl txfanjvm of matter, and
make incuifioiu into that mcumprehenlible inane.

But fy,

4.

Pure fpace, as diftinft from extenfion in
foltd matter.

2.

1

call ixpaitjUii,

concepfrom exten-

afaflraifl

todlftiiiguilh

it

which exprcin s this diflancc only as it is in the
fohd parts of matter.
Locke,
It woiil.l ioi- ever take an ufrlefs flight,
fii>n,

Lud in etcpaii/fun,

Something expeftcd.

There is expe^nnce here from both the fides,
Wlrat further you will doi
3.

St>ak//h..

Hope; that of which rheexpeftation

void and infinite.

Blarkmore

(>li,.what a noble miud is hereo.*erihrowTi

!

expcftation.
lier noajcfty has offered conjefiioH!, in order to
fcrupics raifcd in tine mind of the cxprltant

Exp.a'nsivi-. adj. [from M'^a«y.] Having

mcflick.
Some learne* men treat of the nature of letters as

the power to Ipreadinto a wider furface,
or greater fiiace.

cf fnme remote exctick thing,, whereof we had no
kno'Jrtedje but by fabulous relations.
thider.

The ^fallick or expanjsve faculty of the air,
^vhrreby it dilates ilfelt when compi died,. bath hn-n

one hcldin dependence by his hopes.

Continue frelh hotbeds to entertain-fuch .»&.'( k

Hay.
made ufc 01 in the common weather glaffcs.
'nr fxpanjivi atmolphcrc is cramp'd with cold.

My llores in-riotous expencedevouc,

;.

flaois as arrive not to their petlcftion withoin iheiii.

Evelyn's I^aitndf

Exo'tick. »./. A fotcign ^laac.

iifr

The txpcSfavcy and rofe of ihc fair ftate. Sltake/h..
EXFE'crjNr..adJ. [\iKndi.] Waiting la

not
Foreign
produced in our owa country ;. not do['i|«TiKo,.]

i

Milt'jn,

"

accomp^mied with plcafure..

Diflance or fpace, in its fimple
tion,

my wand'ring mufe, how thou do'il (lay

Expefiajice calls thee now .mothoa' way,

:

Loeke.

Kxo'ssEous.

r,

tended.

Diet.

ExosTo'su. ». /. [« and or*".] Any pro-

rJl.

Satyrs leave your petulance,.

The aft of fpread ing ont.

2.

Hcricr.

much iiM.

i .

Bentky.

nament; decoration; embelli(hment.

,

ExpE'cTANcy.r--^-t'^°"'"/"'-]

'Tis deraonflrated that the condenfation and expanfion of any portion of the air is always psoportional to the weight and prclfure incumbent upon ii.

Exorna'tion. «,/. \_excr;ratio,LiUn.'^ Or-

To be

Occult and fpiriiual operations are not expeltailt
ice ; for being but waier concealed, it can
never make good luch qualities.
Bnws,

The ftate of being expanded into a wider ExPt'CTANCE. >

furface or greater fpace.

jiddi/trt,

[from «-^fcV.]

from

ExPA'NsroN. n.f. [from expand.']
1 .

aJJ.

expeflcd ; to be hoped or ft;ared.

Grevj.

Nor will I thee detain
With poets fiftions, nor opprefs thine ear
With circumllance, and long rxor<//v«ir here
May's ItrgU.
1 have been dlftafttd at this way of writing, by

This

very improper.

To EXPE'CT. -v. a. \espeao, Latin.]

Bodies are not exp.uijihlt in proportion to their
weight, or to tlie quantity of matter to be expanded.

fition.

is

can polTibly give, (liall afterwards afford an ample
field of matter wherein to f A M//.;r< iti'clf.
Dryd,

The finking Hone at tint a circle makes
The trembling furface, by the motion ftirr'd,

Harvry,

which is aftive,

Make choice of a fubjefl, which, being of itfelf
eapable of all that colours and the elegance of defign

Savage.
Shakcjpeari,

To let loofe; to allow to range.
fenfe,

On the fmooth <rAr^*r/> of cryftal lakes,

VVJlhls lordOiip behold and hear our exorcifmi f

To enlarge upon language.

2.

Of waten ifliie from a cave, and fpread

Symptoms fupematural, mud be only curable by

'

!

A murmuring found

away.

It

;

Amidit her kindred liars familiar roam,
Survey the region, and confefs her home.
Pope.
Expatiate free o'er all this fcene of man
;
A mighty maze but not without a plan.
Papf.
With wonder feiz'd, we view the plealing ground.
And walk delighted, and expatiate round.
Pope.

Expa'.nse. n.f. \expanfum, Latin.] A body
widely extended without inequalities.

v^'hichevil and malignant fpirits are driven

Is't real that

Addifoti's Speilator.
He looks in heav'n with more than mortal eyes.
Bids his free foul expatiate in ihc fkies

She ufcth moft the target to fence away the blow,
and leaves all other weapons to the Alchoran to
Ihivil.
propagate and expand itfelf.
Bellerophon's horfe, framed of iron, and placed
between two loadilones, with wings expanded^ hung

E'xuLcisM. tt.f. [ijMjuir/x.®-.] The form
of adjuration, or religious ceremony by

,

Religion contrads the circle of our pleafures, but
leaves it wide enough for her votaries to expatiate in.

diffufe.

praftifcs to drive away evil fpirits.

a.

prefcribed limits.

To dilate; to fpread out every way; to

2.

To drive a'vay fpirits by certain- forms

f . To pnrify from the infloence of malignant fpirits by religious ceremonies.

To range at large; to rove without any

.1.

To EXPA'ND. v. a. [fxfando, Latin.]
1. Tofprcad; tolay open as a net oriheet.

To E'XORCTSE. -v. a. Sjl-t^^x-l
1 . To adjaje by fome holy name.
2.

EXP

Claudian was fetted on Uie other fummlti, which
was barren, and produced, on fome fpots, plants that
are unknown toltaly, and fuch as the gardeners call
fXoticks.
Addijon'i Guard.

^kumpftn.

Ta EIxpa'tiate. v. »• {expatior, Latin.],

remove
heir.

Stsnft,

ExPh'cTANT.

»•.

/ [from fxpi-^.].

C ne

who waits in cxpett«tion of any thing;
They, vain expeelanls ni the brid;'.l hour,
Popei
was agrcc;:ble to the whole nation,.
except thofe who had employments, or
ere ex..

This

trcarife

peilants.-

Hii.ifi to

Pope,

ExPEC 1 a'. l.KiN..

EXP
L'lff kcta'iion. »./

he atl of expcfting.
The trees
Should have home men, and exfcUaiioii fainted)

1

'J

Ix>ngii){ for what it hod not

1 .

cxpeditr.l.

The ftatc of expefting either with hope

expiditnl for

them that there fhotild be none ; and
then they endeavour to perfuade ihem&lves fo.
Tdhifmi.

for

my ex.

Pf. \xi\. 5.

The objecl of happy expeftation ; the
MefCah expetted.
Now clear I undcrOand,

Expk'dient

[fromt-A-Z^cS".]

and fuppofes an earth of a make and frame like that
Woeitv,

of Des Cartes.

Expe'diently. adj.

One who waits for another.
Signify this loving interview

By (in and death a broad way now is f av'd.

To expedite your glorious march.

.

Shatrf.^

To EXPE'CTORATE. 'v. a. [ex zn^ peaus

That difcharge which is made by coughing, as bringing up phlegm, or any thing
that obftrufts the veflels of the lungs,
1
and ftr.iitens the breath.

Stvift.
_

To difpatch;

3.

Morbifick matter is either attenuated fo as to be*
returned into the channels, ottxprCtoratrdhy coughing.
Aiiulbnot.

Exp EC TOR a't ION. n. /. [ham expeai>ratf.'\
The aft of difcharging from the breaft.
1

Milton.

to quicken.
An inquifiiion would ftill be a further improvement, and would expedite the convetiion of the
;

Papifts.

Excrementitious humours are expeClorated by a'

Harvey.i

To haften

2.

,\

To ejeft from the bread

to iffuc from a publick

office.

;

foon performed.

advice,

Eafy ; difencumbered ; clear frrnn impediments.
Nature can teach the church but in part; neither
is rcquifite for man's falvation, nor fo

fo fully as

moling rxptSi.ration.

that m.iny come to the

1.

Fitnefs;

propriety;

fuitablenefs

Hiikir.

its operations.

4.

Bacon's Henry VII.
i^'x p F D I T ELY. adj. [from expedite.^

is

alfo

Nature left his ears naked, iliilhemay turn them

Gvnu.

quarter.

Shakff.

ufcd by Shnhfpeare for expe-

I'rayers,

yof. xxiii. j%

I

may know the let why gentle peace

Should not *x^r/ ihefe inconveniences.
Sbakejp,
Suppofe a mighty rock to fall there, it would
expel the waters out of their pUces with fuch rio.
lence as to fling them among the clouds.
Burnet,
ejeft ; to throw out.
2.
Whatfoever cannot be digefted by the ftomacb, it
cither put up by vomit, or put down to the guts,
and other parts of the body are moved to expel by
coiifent.
Bacon's H»t, Hi^,
The virgin huntrefs was not (low
T' ^;r^r/ the (haft from her contracted bow. Dry J,

To

To banifh; to drive from the place of

relidence.
Arms and the man I (ing, who forc'd by fate.
And haughty Juno's utirelenting hate,
Expel' d and exil'd left the Trojan ihorc.
DryJen,
rcjeft ; to refufe.
4.
And would you not poor fellowlhip expetf
Myfelf would oftcr you to t* accompany
In this adventurous chanceful jeopardy.
HuiierJ,
keep off; to exclude ; to keep out.
5.

To

To

Since (he did negleft her looking-glafs,

And threw her fun expelling mafk away,
1'hc air hath ftarv'd the roles in her cheeks,

And pitch'd the lily tinffure of her face.

Sbakefp,

Oh that that earth which kept the world in awe

l>refs

that quick and fpeedy expedition wherewith
afltdions, the very wings of prayer are de-

lighted to fitfcDt our fuiti in hcavtSa

i

1;.

a.

[expettdo.

Latin.]

To

lay out ; to fpend.
If my death might make this (land happy,
would expend it with all willingnefs.
Sbakefp,
The king of England wafted the French king't
country, and thereby caufcd him to expend fuch
fums of money as exceeded the debt.
nayrvard.
The publick burthens, though they may be a loot
reafon for our not expendingfo much inch-irily, yet
i

I

Allertnry,

will notjuftify us in giving nothing.

EXPE'NSE. n.j: [expenfum, Latin.] Coft J
money expended.

Hence comes that wild and vaft cxpenfe.
That ha(h enforc'd Rome's virtue thence.

Which limple poverty Hrft made.

Ben. 'Jonfon,

A feaftprepar'd with riotous expenfe.
Much coft, more care, and moft magnificence.
Dryden,
Such provifion made, that a country (hould not
Want fo many fpiings as were convenient, and adbrd
a fupply ever;' where fuilablr to the necelTities and
fa-^c^yij^of each climate.

can fee no reafon by which

kHodvard,
we arc obliged 14

make thofe prodigious exfenfes.

ExPt'NSEFOL.

[expen/e

adj.

windows or more ruinous.

whcreunlo devout minds have added a

r.rdciit

SbuktJ,

to force awaj-.

Stvift.

and /ulL]

expenfive.

No part of llruiTture is either more expenftful thaa

piercing kind of brevity, thereby the belter to ex-

I (hall break

;

Tlie Lord your God (hall expel them from befon
you, and drive them fitom outof your light.

Collly ; charjieable ;

Hafte; fpeed; activity.

I.

To drive out

1.

I

Expedi'tiok. n.f, \Uom expedUe.'\

dition; hafte; difpatch.

The caufe of our rxptdiencc to the ^eCBt
And jet iKr learc to part,

With

quicknefs, readincfs. hafte.
moierx/>f</;Vf^ for the reception of founds from every

What yelfetnighioiir council did decree,
3. It

Tilhtfont

be ufed by Bacon for light

to fpeed to Exeter, to the refcue of the town.

It is ufed in Shake/peare<Sot expedition
;

In forwarding th'.5 tlc.tr cxped'unce.

fecins to

It

armed in the Roman fignification.
He fent the lord chamberlain with expedite fonts

Solemn dedication of things fet apart for EMvinc

afting with ce-

Speedily; nimbly; with celerity.
To EXPE'L. -v. a. [expello, Latin.']

charges J

fual lults, the more nimble and expedite it will be in

to an

adventure ; or attempt.
Lei me hear

Nimble; aftive; agile.
The more any man's foul is cleanfed from fen-

end.
Worftiip, could never have been univerfally praififc I,
had not right reafon Jidlated the high expid!f>c\
and great ufc of fuch praAifes.
Smb.

knowledge of it, and fo be

faved, and therefore the Scripture has been given.

3.

;

Expedi'tiously. adv. [from expeditious,]

ToExpe'nd.

and expedite execution in
Sandyt,
freeing the ftatc of thole monllers.

Arbutbniit an Alimints,

Nimble; quick; Avjft

lerity: as, an exfiditbus xanntr.

Shahefpeare,

eafily as 10 make she way plain and expedite enough,

Expe'dienci. 7 * y rr
.JT
[JVo™'-^/"/'""-]
Expe'd.ency. [ '• /•

2.

Expe'i.ler. n.f. [from fA>v/.] One that
expels or drives away.

VVholefome

Expe'ctorative. adj. [Uom expeiioralf.]
Having the quality of promoting expec-

?is,vc\. ex-

Would pateh a wall, expel tht winter's flaw

Quick; hafty

2.

Speedy; quick; foon done :
peditious march.

Bacon

E'xPEDlTE. adj. [expedilm, Latin.]
1.

Skate/,

Though fuch charters be expedited of covHc, and
as of right, yet they arc varied by difcretion.

With water, vineger, and honey, in picurificsand
inflammations of the lungs, hemixcthfpices, for pnv

toration.
Syrups and other «jr^r/?om/«r J, in coughs, muft
ncceffarily nccaflon a greater cough,
Harviy,

i.

3.

:

Stoift.

2.

\{xovc\ expedient,

Let my officers of fuch a nature

nillration, according to the period of governors here.

2.

means to an end which are

;

Make an extent upon his houfe and lands
Do this txptditntly, and turn him going. Sbairfp.
To E'XPLDITE. -v. a. [expedio, Latin.]
1. To facilitate ; to free from impediment.

Thcfc are not ^reat ixpe3trs under your admi-

cough after a cold or an alfhma.

A Ihift

contrived in an exigence, or difficulty.
Th' expedimt pteas'd, where neither loft his right
Mars had the day, and Venus had the night.

Fitly; fuirably ; conveniently.
Not ufed.
2. Haftily ; quickly.

One who has hopes of fomething.

Latin.]

[from the adjeftivc.J

1.

Otviay.

To the exptlicrt of our Trojan part,

n. f.

Shdkejp.

Dry den.
He flics to a new expedient to folve the matter,

Plcas'd with your growing virtue 1 receiv'd you.

Bending tfieir expedititn tow'rJs Philippi.

Expedi'tious. <7<^'. [from expedile.'X

That which helps forward, as means to

2.

Sidney.

t.

:

cence; and \\ould never have invited us to the one,
Ditay of Fitly,
but ai an rxpedient to the other.

divert your thoughts from the way of goodnefs.

You firltcame home
From travel with fuch hopes as made you look'd on
By alt men's eyes, a youth of expiOatiam j

Young Oftavius, and Mark Antony,

an end.
God docs not projeft for our fbrrow, but our inno-

rare not only expefiation but proof, to

Expe'cter. »./.

I

His marches are txpedhnt to this town.
Is

What oft my ftcadieft thoughts have fearch'd in vain,
Whyour great txptSalwn (hould be call'd
The Seed of woman.
Milton' t faradi/c Loft.
5. A flatc in which fomcthing excellent is
expcfled/rom us.
How 6t it will be for you, bom lb great a prince,
and of fo

To land his legionsall as loon as

She^,

Come down upon us with a mighty power.

In Sbakefptare, qwrek ; expeditious.

The adverfe winds
VVhofeleifute I haveltaid, have given him time

Profpeft of any thing good to come.
j

Ihoker.

When men live as if there were no God, it becomes

3.

him to the emperor's court,

A march or vopgc with martial btentions.

Shakeffeart.
'Tis exftcialioH makei a blefling dear.
Cm^,

My foul, wait thou only upon God

I will difpatch

2.

convenient ; fuitahlc.

;

That are within the note of (xfcBailai,

ftltaiioi is from him.

I .

fit

Already arc i' th' court.

Live in a conftant and feriotu expeHatioH of that
day, when we mullappear before the Judge of heaven
and earth.
Rtgcri's Strut.

4.

Proper ;

All things are not exptdirnt ; in things indifferent there is a choice j theji are not always equally

of fear.

J.

Ev'n with the fpcedieft expedlllitt

EXPE'DIENT. aJ/. [exfedit, Latin.]

Sbakefp,

The reft,

2.

EXP

EXP
Eight tail (hips, three thourand men «f mr.
Are muring hither with all due txptdhnct,
Shakijp. R. II.

[ex/K^atk.Litln.]

Hnktr,

Expe'nseless.
out coft.

adj.

li'otton's Arcbiie^iere.

[from «/«{/>.] With-

.

A phvfician may fave any army by this frugal an4
txfenftlt/s meant only.

Miltm un Education.
What

E X F

EXP

What heaUli promotes, and gives unenvyM peaM,
Is all ixftnfdejs, and procur'd with eafe.

TJI hu fall man's mind was ignorant of nothing'

Bhckm.

but of fin; or, at lead,

Expt'N3lVE. (7j^'. [fK Aexpenfe.']
1. Given to expenfe; extravagant; luxu-

'"'

men are friendly to the

eftiblirtied government, as the idle and
txfrnjive are

To Expe'riment. 1;. a. [from the noun.
1.

2. Coftly; requiring expenfe, as expenlive
drefi; an expenfiveyoHnrf)'.

Pertaining to experiment.
2. Built upon experiment;
formed by

Svjiji

Hereof cxpmence hath informed reafon, and time
hath made thofe things apparent
which were hidden.
Raieirh.
_
But apt the mind or fancy is to rove,
Uncheck'd, and of her roving ii no end,
•Till warn'd, or by «/.mV/,«
taught, fhe learn,

know at large of things remote
from ufe, obfcureand fubtle, but to know
I bat not CO

befides a large experience, without
an

are fo far

an <-'/>rr,«M/a/ confirmation of the

«-

Mll.on.

txte'^

r/eirce]

or

'^*'-

a. Wifebylongpraaice.

1 o him rxftrUnr-J N=rt„r ,K„,
rejoioM,
friend
what forrows doll (hou bring to
mind

ExF e'ri «KC FR. ,./ One who maJces
a pradifer of experiments.

trkt''

»e^.of any object. ,1 Uronglv
enlightened, will ap.
pear to«,o,her. in the
eye o/him that looks llro..g^
"' ""
'^'">'i by it ; even

^^

Tml of any thtng; fomething done

order to d.fcover an
uncertain or

known efTc^'t.

That which (heweth them to
/'r,«f/,/,,

and

be wife

i.

iWr „,

tW framing ol out particular rxp,-

jv»,.«r. .ccordmg ,0
Ihall make utiuch as

the

n,l« of

they are.

,Lir princ
pt,
'^

th^Zr

It IS good alfo not
to try cxpirimnii in
ftate,
ce,< Uk ncceffity be urgent, or
the utility evide;,,

Adam

!

in

un-

by f.d «/.„.„„, I k„o„,

«ow liulc weight wttJj tJice my word.

«'

*"""•
can6nd.
Milton.

+. It

experience.

Expila'tion.

...J

iai.xper„,ef, in war.

rhuitfmy, far tbe expennefi and

thrufta

In all expiration the motion is outwards,
and
therefore rather driveth away the voite than draw.
s'h it.
Ba.jon-, Nut Hijl.

Of an inflammation of the dijpiiragm, the fymptoms are a violent fever, and a moll exquifitc' pain
increafes upon infpiiation; by which it is dillingiilhed from a plcurify, in which the greaieit pain

the

is

2.

in ei^pirailan.

Arluibnol on Diet.

The lad emiffionof breath; death.
We have heard him breathe the groan ol fxplra''""

3.

R.vnilert

Evaporation; aft of fuming out.

4. Vapour;

Words

\{xom expert.] Skill;

readmcfs; dexterity.
What his reput.ition, what his valour,

Larin.j

the air out of the lungs, and contrafts
the cavity of the bread.
i^tincj.

This

f{^tt.{C

{/xpilatio,

f.

Expira'tion. »./. \ivQm expire.]
I. That aft of refpiraiion
which

ku.v<'.

and dexterous manner.

n.

Robbery; the aft of committing waftc
upon land to thelofsof the heir.

tixpert of srmj, ,-.i prudeiii„ debate,
Ifrtgiftsof H»aven to guard thy
hoary date.

f.

of omi-

His voluntary death for others prevailed with
God»
and had the force of an explatoi v facrifice.
Hook'r

/>

n.

threats

the power of expiation or atonement.

at&irs, come bell from th„l-

IS

tul, ready,

by which the

I'pon

the whole.

"fed by Pope with
of before
objeft of flcill, generally with
in.
1 hy olt>pi lug bloom,
^

EXPERT.VESS.

Praflices

Expiatory, adj. [from expiate.] Having

mexpert in mc le

ExPE»'TtY, ad-v. [from expert.

fo many
man/ oflences of ignorance,
lb many unguarued words

the birth of fuch monflers, the Creciant
and Rom.uis did ufe divers fi.rts of expiation^,
anj
to go about their principal cities with
many folemn
ceremonies and facriticcs.
Haywood

of particuone ly one; but the general
counfels, and the

tliat are learned,

fo

(jrejudice,

Addifon.

_

fenfc is rare.
Expert m<^n c.in execute, and
judge
lars,

and

and thoiigljts, that v.iihout the advantage of fuch
an

Lo€kt

plots and marlhaling ot

his

nous prodigies vittt averted.

They have not the good luck to be perfeiflly
J. J^kilful by pradice or

let

expiation and atonement, as Clirillianity has
revealed
to us, it is impoflible he ihould be faved.

And by concealing fpeaks her pains.
Prior
2. Ready; dexterous.
The meanell fculptor in th' ^milian fquare.

ing in the forms of fyllogifm,

.

man's innocence be what it will,

human frailties,

Skilful; addrefstui; intelligent.
Now we will take fome order in the town.
Placing therein fome expert officers.
Sbahefp
Again fair Alma fits confeft,

*^"T"

If y^llT"

,
l.et a

DryJrn.

virtues rife to the higheft pitch of perfection,
there
Will be ftill in him fo many fecret fins,
paflion,

Can imitate m brafs the nail, and hair

!

ex'.

in it.

Galelius and Morfennus, tvio txufk txpei
imniters,
do think they find this verity by
their erperiences
"''* '' 'npoflible to be done.
Dirh.
T.i".^.^"."'j'

Expert in trifles, and a cunning fool. j
Able f exprefs the parts, but notdifpefe

I

Milton,

The former part of this poem is but a due
piaiion for my not ferviiig my king and country

On Florirael'srA/i/T/irr breall;
When (he the rifing figh conftiains.

experience.

l«rn them fror^ fuch as are
ufed^to that for, of things,
and are ,x,:fLyZ

O

Save by tl.t ; (hadowyex^ar/om weak,
Tile blood of bulls and foats.

I.

i^:iri't.iii,czu.farl,cifial adj. [from

;

Law cj.-. lifcover fin, lut not remove.

EXPE'RT. adj. [exfenui, Latin.]

He through the armed filej
Darts his «,,r/«rV eye.

atone for

crimes ; atonement.

One who makes experiment.

Pape '

[from the noun, 5

The means by which we

:.

experiment; by obfervation.
The mifcarriage being fometimes univerfal, h.is
made us impart what we have experimentally
learned,
by our own obfervations.
E-velyn', Kaltnder.
While the man is under the fcourge of
affliftion,
he IS willing to abjure thofe fins which
he now txiiX^PE RIMENTER. »./ [from
experiment.]

the d.lhn<9 (pecies

The aft of e.vpiating or atoning for any
crime.

univerfal deluge.

But if you'll profper, mark what
I
Whom age and long ixpnitnct renderadvife.
wife.

I. Made (kilful by

Expia'tion. ». /. [from expiate.]

Benttey'sStrmom.

i«rrimntally finds attended with
fuch bitferconfe,.'"="«'•
Roger,' s:iermom.

their

more ihey endeavour to explat- that unmanagery tor the future.
Cdvernmeht of the Tongtie.

tJiriftinelsby a more careful

t^ru,to„.

Pawn their M/>o-/fw« to their prefentplcafures.

To try; to praftife.
To know by praflifc.

parts, the

from being fubfervient to atheifts

r.

Milton.

2. iij)ovvIedgc gamed by trial and
prafticc.
Bjys immature in knowledge.

I.

The mere they have hitherto cmbcziled

Broiun'^yulgir Err.

^xperime'ntally. ad-v. [from exferimental.\ By experience; by
trial;
by

UnpraClis'd, unprepar'd, and rtill
to feek.

y;> Lxfe'rie.vce. -v. a.

The ;reaJ.:i-:- obliged himfelf to exphte the in.
_
jury, to i,r,.ure fome declaration
to that "purpofe,
under his majefty's fign manual.
Clarendon.

m their audacious attempts, that they rather atForJ

fume

Ray,

To avert the threats of prodigies.
3. To make reparation for,

Known by experiment or trial.
We have no other evidence of univerfal impene-

/.fr™,^,^/ exception.

And renders us in things that moll concern

2..

obfer-

Sbaktfptart.
he txfcrinemal teftimony of Gillus
is moll
conliderablc of any, who behe'ld'the
co r-!e thereof.

1 ncle

fcrions',

hearty repentance is the only phyfick
not to ,-;<•;
piute tbc guilt of it, but to qualify us to
partak*
of the benefit of Chrift's atonement.

1

trabiht)-,

I refolved

King Churls.

For the cure of this difeafe an humble,

2.

-.

1. Praftice ; frequent trial.

,

to expiate by regulations.

The tenor of my book.

3.

a

Bacon's Phif. Remains.

nefs h.id contradlcd upon my government,

"°' "'' 'fading, nor my obfervations,
«/?"i'*
vv hich with exptrimnial
feal do warrant,

Arbuthnot.

EXPE'RIENCE. ;,./. UxfnU„tia. Latin.]

in fo ini/.ent and fo hopeful

^

ihe odium which fome men's rigour or remifi^

vation.

2. Colllinefs
Their highways, for their extent, folidity, orcxpcr/,x'ne/i, are fome of the greateft
monuments of

is

afliduous labours

*%''•

1

Addition to expenfe: txtravaeance.
*

ii more,
Uremptinefs, or fond impertinence,

Ruy m tU Cna.

know by experience.

Experime'ntal. adj. [from experiment.^

Expe'nsiveness. »./ [horn exfrnfi'vt.]

That which before u» lies in daily life.
Is the prime wifdom
what
;

J o

To annul the guilt of a crime by fubfequent afts of piety ; to atone for.

Strong and able petty felons, in true
penitence,
implore permiflion to expiate, tiieir crimes
by their

our preception of duration ceafes with it,
which every or.e
expiriments whiUl he Heeps foundly.
Lorke.

great expenfe; at great charge.
I never knew him live fo great
and txftnfively

°^ '''' '^'""^" empire.

I.

When the fjcceflion of ideas ceafes,

-"f'o"Sfratl.
Exp E KsiVH LY.<i</v. [{tomexffttjt've.'] With

T>.i?^l.?,!."i'""'

be expiated, or atoned.

To E'XPIATE -v. a. [expio. Latin.]

To try; to fearch out bv trial.

produce any.

2.

This requires an aftive. expetfvc, indefatigable
goodoefs, luch as our apolUe calls a work and labour

1.

Ex'p I A BL E . adj. [from expiate.] Capable
to

Francifco Redi <-r^i-r/mw/rd' that no
putrified fierti
will of itfelf, if all iufeas be
carefully kept from it,

3. Liberal; generous; diftributive.

as he has done fincc his leturn Irom exile.

waj thought fufficient to have Biet tli«
greateft army of the Turks.
Knollei'i Hijlory.
foliierj,

the notion with-

dangerous.

Tfw^/r.

EXP
'

°^ '*" txprriment.
South': SmHom.
Wk
When we are fearching out the

nature or properties of any being by
various methods of trial, this
lort of obfervation is called
expniment.
IValis.

rious.
Frugal and induihious

it reiled in

matter expired.

of this fort

refemble

the wini in furv

and impctuoufnefs, in iraniieutnslii and fudden
exf'"-"'""DiC.,j ,f Play.
Clofe air is warmer than open air, as the caiifeof
cold IS an expiration fjoin the e.iitli. whirli
in
ofcn place* is flionger.
Umok'sJ^.h. Hiji.
'

.

honeftv,

Sl. ..k.fpcJe.

valour of the

.

2. I he

^- The cctTation of any thing to which life
To I'jlisfy ourfclvtt of iis txfhailoH we Jarkened
the loom, and in vain eadeavojrol to Jifcover any
Biylf.
fpark ol lire.
_
_

_

6. The conclufion of any limited time.
'till

the rxpiratinv of you'nionlh.

You will return and^juurn with my filler,
Cifmiirmg half yourtrain, come then to mr.
Hhatrfp. K. tear.
This he did in a fortnight after the txpimlhn
Clarcndsn.
of the treaty of Uihridge.
To EXPl'RE. -v. a. \fxfin, Latin,]

Had not a cloud defcending fnatch'd him thence

Thefe ire not only ufeful expletives to matter,
Svjifi.
but grf at ornaments of ftyle'.
Oft the ear the oiien vowels tire.
Pope.
While expleii-ues their feeble aid do join.
Expliiivcs, whether words or fyllablei, are made

Unleen amid' the throng. Millcn's Paradift LoJI,
Thus was th' applaufethcy meant,
Turn'd to exploding hifs, triumph to (liame,
Mih.
Cait on tbemlclves Irom their own mouths.

Many difticulties, fcarce explicahle with any cer-

lljrvey.

inTpiring ar.d rxbirhig nir.

ThischafFd the-hoar;

his noftrilt flames «/>!><•.

And his red eyeballs roll with living fire.

_

DryJ.

thus fccreted, and txpired
forth along with tlie air, goes off in inlcnfiblc parcels.
f^'coaivard.

To

2-

end.

little

To explain

2.

For when the fair in all their fi\i& expirt,

To their lirlt elements the fouls retire."

E'xpLicATioN. ft./, [ftorn explicate.]

Pope.

:

unfolding or ex-

The aft of explaining;
explanation.

2.

to fall ; to be deltroycd.

interpretation;

teftimony, the truth which from them (he hath received, written in the facred volumes of Scripture;
fecondly, by way of explication, difcovering the
Hooker.
jnylleries which lie hid therein.
Many thir.gs are needful fat explication, and many

Sfetifer.

Is tt>ere fc tree aflcM, for whom
Expire before the flcA^ers in their caps,

; and good men's lives

Dymg or ere they licken.
4. To fly out with a blafl.

Hooker.

for application unto particular occafion*.

Shakcfpeare.

Allowances are made

in

the explication of our

Saviour's parables, which hold only as to the main

The ditlaiice judg'd for ihot of every

fize,

Atterbury.

fcope.

The linftocks touch, the ponderous hall exfires.
The vigorous feaman every porthole plies,
Drydcn.
And adds his heart to every gun he lire?.
,5. Toconclude; to terminate; to come to

3.

an end.

1 he fenfe given by an explainer;

fingle explicatiors

and

particularities

Burnet.

explicate.]
[from
adj.
P^'xpi.iCATiVE.
Having a tendency to explain.

This bond exfirei, 1 do exf eft return

'

Of thrice three timea the value of this b.-md.
Sbukejpe.tre.

ToEXPLA'IN. f.ff. [ex/ila/to, Latin.] To
expound; to illuftrate; to clear by notes
or commentaries.
Such it the original dclign, however we may <•*ytyHJfe't I'arergon.
f/ain it away.
You will have variety of.commentaiors to expl.ilii

Gay.

rtie difficult paffagestoymi.

Some expiaimd the meaning quite away.

Vofe.

Expla'inabi.e. adj. [from <*//<«>/.] Capable of being explained or interpreted.
and implicth puri-

Brown's fiilgar Errours.

[from exfilain.'l Expofitor; interpreter; commentator.
Expi.ana'tion. »./. [from expluin.']
1- '1 he a^t of explaining or interpreting.
2. The fenfe given by an explainer or in». /.

terpreter.

If the term which is added to the fubjed of a
complex propofition be either effential or any way
necellary to it, then

it is

called explicative; for

it

only explams the fubjed; as every morul man is a
H'attt's Logick.
fon of Adam.

primer given

me notice, I would have
Swift, i^

pleta.]

[explefum, Latin, res ex-

A defign accomplifhed; an at-

chievcment; a fuccefsful attempt.
Know'ft thou not any whom corrupting gold
Siat.
Flight cannot ftain the honour you have won
exploit
have
done.
Siak.
But mine it will that no
,

Would tempt into a cMcexptoil of death ?

How Ihall I relate
To human fenfe th' invifible exploits
Milton's Parajife LoJI.

Of warring fpiriis?

He breaks fierce Hannibal's infulting heats
Of which exploit thus our friend Ennius treats.
Denham,
Will you thus dilhonour
Your pad exploits, and I'ul ly all j our wars

To ExPLoi'r.

ev.

a.

AJdif.

!

lo

[from the noun.]

Not ufed.
perform; to atchieve.
He exploited great matters in his own perfon i|i
Gallia, and

Camden.

by his fon in Spain.

roEXPLO'RAl b. v. a. [exploiv, Latin.]
To fearch out; to try by fearching; to
explore.
Bratvn's Vulgar Errours.

rale their way.

Explora'tion.
Search ;

n.

f.
exanf>ination.

[from

exploralc.]

For eiaft exploration fcales fiiould be fufpended
where the air is quicr, that, clear of impedimehis,
they may the mere freely conwrt upon their natural
Brt/wn't Vulgar Errours.
vcrticitv.
Ulc inay be made of the like way ot exploratim
in that enquiry which puzzles fo many modem na^0)/c»

turalifts

Un-

Expi.o'ratory.

folded; plain; clear; not obfcure;
merely implied.

not

Searching; examining.
To EX'PLORR. v. a. [explon,

who fearches; afearcher; an examiner.

We muA lay afidc thai lazy and fallacious method of cenfuring by the lump, and bring things
Burnet.
and cvidei^cc.
Theft fpeculations, when moll refined, fervc only
lor
to
have
a clear
it
is
us
to Ihow how impoilibic
and explicit notion of that which is infinite.
South's Sermons.

clofc 10 explicit proof

Exp Li'c IT Lv. adv. [from «///«>.] Plainly
direftly ; not merely by inference or im-

itulually is its owncxpolitui ; ^nd cxp'iri;iy ivo a* it.

ll.ii the

EXPLOIT, n. /.

\explidtus, Latin.]

pounder; interpreter; explainer.

EXPl-1'CIT. adj

Siuift.

fiiutcd tlie uamct lod writ cxpUitMory uolcs.

one who drives out any perfon or thing
with open contempt.

Explora'tor. >/./. \ix<imexplorate.] One

Before this explanalion be condemned, and the
bill found upon it, forae lawyers Ihould fully inform
the jutv.

Explo'd ER. »./. [from explode.] An hiffer

lix-

Explica'tor. «./, [from f-v/Z/iv//*-.]

plication.
This querulous humour carries an implicit repugnance to God's difpofals ; but whtre it is indulged,

Expla'."* ATORY. adj. [from explain.'] Containing expl.ination

But late the kindled power did explode
The malTy bait, and the bilafs tube unload.
B/ackmsre.

Snails exclude their horns, and therewith expto-

'Tis the fublHnce of this theory I mainly depend

may be redtilied upon farther thoughts.

A month before

inter-

pretation,
upon : many

To drtve out with nojfe and violence.

;

The church prcacheth, firfl; publifliing by way of

All thy prail'e is vain,

Shall to the purchafe.,
Thedcad m.in'sknell

•

T he aft of opening
panding.

1

Save what this vcrfe, which never (hall expire.

ExPLA'lNfe*.

Drydcn.

explicated.

To die; to breathe the lalt.

It isfymbolically exptainabie,

to clear ; to interpret.

The laft verfe of his laftfatyr is not yet fufficiently

If the infpiring and expiring organ of any animal
IValton'i jingler.
beftopi, itfudJenlydies.

fication and clcaniiefs.

;

Tlicy do not underftand that part of Chriftian
philolophy which explicates the fccret nature of this
Taylor.
divine facrament.

Although the truth* may be elicited and explicated by the contemplation of animals, yet they are
more clearly evidenced in the contemplation of man.
Hate's Origin of Maniicd.

ToExpi're. 1>. tl.
I. To make an emlffionof the breath.

'

2.

For the' filk labourers of the mulberry wood.
Blackmore.

is

Obfolete.

;

_

to expanti.

;

They explicate the leaves, and ripen food

clofe; to conclude; to bring to an

To perifh

Boyle.

many of them feem to be explicable.

To unfold

1

When as time flying with wings fwift.

3.

.

To EXPLICATE, -v. a. lexpUco, Latin ]

Expired \iiA the term that thcfc two javels
Should render up aiect'uing of their travels.

3.

Somj.
of Zeno ?
Provided that no word, which a fociety (hall give
a fanfliou to, be antiquated and exploded, they may
receive ithaterac new ones they lliall find occalioa
Sviif:.
for.

tainty, occur in the fabrick of human nature. //.;/».
Great variety there is in compound bodies, and

To exhale; to fend out in exhalations.
The fluid which

conftant rotation ; but this is commonly exploded,
Irilkins.
as being againft ail experience.
Shall that man pifs for a proficient in Chrili'a
fchaol who would have been exploded in the fchool

Kx-

[frotn expIkateJ]

plainablo; poflible to be explained.

Fairy Sjiern.
Anatomy exhibits tlie lungs in a continual motion

t.

Pope.

explode did and does.

E'xPLiCABLE. ad},

Which.he from hcUilh eniraiU did exfirt.

.

Rofcomm(.n.
Old age explodes all but morality.
There is pretended that a magnetical globe ot
terella, being placed upon its poles, would have -a

ufe of purely to fupply a vacancy ; do, before verbs
plural, is abfnlutcly fuch; and future refiners may

To fave his holy from the fcorching fire,\
.

Him old and young
Exploded, and had fciz'd with violent hands,

prevent a vacancy.

To breathe out.

I.

contempt; to treat not only with nc^
glcft, but opendifdain orfcom.

E'xri.ETivs, n. f. \expUiivum, Latin.]
Something ufed only to take up room
foniething of which the ufc i» only to

is figuratively afcrilicd.

If

EXP

EXP

EXP

Government of the l^n^ue.

[fxphdo, Latin.]
To EXPLO'DE.
I. To drive out difgracefully with fome
noifc of coatcmpt; to titat with open
x.-.rt.

adj.

[from

explorate.\

Latin.

To try; to fearch into; to examine by
trial,

Abdiel that fight endur'd not, where he flood

Among the mighticft, bent on highcll deeds,
And thus his own undaunted heart exphris.

i

Milt,

Divers opinions I have bren inclined to qucllioa
not only as a naturalill, but as a chymilV, i^heilier
they be agreeable to true grounds of philolophy, or
Beyle,
the'AC^/or;>geXferimeiiis of the fire

Bui Capys, and the rcrt of founder mind.

The fatal prclcnttothe flames defign'd,
Or to the wat'ry deep ; at leall to bore
The hollow fides, aud bidden frauds explore.
Dryden's Xn,

The mighty Stagj'rite firfl left the (horc.
Spread all his fails and duift the deeps explore ;
He rteer'd fecurely, and difcover'd far,

Led by the lijht ol the Maonian liar.

P^spe.

Explo'rement.

EXP

E X P
E!crLo<REMENT.a./.[ftomw/>/anr.]Search,

.

The Jhiftrafrf fearch of Porta, upon the exphreBiiiun.

'..

in

If'jodwarJ.
In gunpowder the charcoal and fulphur eafily take
fire, and fet fiie to the nitre; and the fpirit of the
nitre being thereby rarified into vapour, rulhes out
with explofijn, after the manner that the vapour
of water rulhes of an awiipile: the fulphur alfo,
being volatile, is converted into vapour, and augmentt the txplofi^n.
Nnuun's Opt.
With explc^an vii.
The thunder raifes his tremenduous voice. Thamfun.

ExPLo'sivE. fl*//, \^iom explode.]
out with noife and violence.

tercate ; to debate without open rupture.

More bitterly could I expoJluUle,

Prior.

Save that for reverence of fome alive

giveafparinglimittomytongue.
Sbakefpeare.
The emperor's ambalTadordid expoju/jtrwah tl'.e
king, that he had broken his league with the em1

Dryien.

To lay open; to make bare; to put in

;.

It

to

;

(hew in fuch a ftatc as brings contempt.

Driving

for ftlcndlcfs

and unarmed in-

_
Cmon.
The bifhop will expofluUte, and tlie tenant will

have regard to the reafonabienefs of the demand.

Dry den.

To lay opcH, to cenfure or ridicule

ra.idnefs

»1i:.

And while the balmy wertern fpirit hbws.
Earth to the breath her boibm dares expij'e.

is

nocence to ixp'fulate with invincible power. L'EJIr.
Dutit I expopuUte with Providence, I then might

Then (icids the blades of buried corn difclofe.

.

HyiuarJ.

Ff'"'-

a ftate of being afted upon.
Then joyous birds frequent the lonely grovx.
And hearts, by nature llrong, renew their love :

Svtift.

Expostula'tion. n.f. ^itam expofiulatc.]

Debate; altercation; difciiffion of an
.
Like Horace, you only expofe the follies of men,
affair in private without rupture.
without arraigning their vices. Drfd.
Ju-u. Dedic
Expoftulations end well between loycrs, but ill
Tully has jull expafed a pretipt, that a
man
between frieuds.
(hould live with his Iriend in fuch a manner
SpeHatar,
that if
he became his enemy, it (hould not be in
his power z. Charge ; accufation.

Thefe minerals conftitute in the earth a kind of
natural gunpowder, which takes fire ; and by the
aJIiftancc of itj txplofivt power renders the (bock
greater.

Ti'EXPO'STULATE. -v. v. \f.Kp:%d».
Latin.] To canrafs with another
to al:

To open dangers, ?.ni to fecret fnares.
To put in the power of any thing.
But Itill he held his purpofc to depart;
For as he Inv'd her equal to his life.
He would not to the leas expole his wife,

this, but all other exflofians whatever.

of places, pott

out a vain overflow of learning on paflfagcs plain and

I

"VaVitimitoxh expos'd, and endlefs cares.

violence.
Thofe parts which abound with ftrata of ftone, or
marble, making the Ih-ongeft oppofition, are the mod
an event obfcrvable not only

I

MiltOK.

~r
r -u
10 pafs
the riper period of his age,
Aifting hispartupon a crowded Itage,

ExpLo'sioN. »./. [from explode.'] The aft
of driving out any thing with noife and

forioufly Ihattered,

Scholi'afts, thofe copious exprjitors

Will envy whom the highcft place expofes
Fotemoft to (land againft tbe Thunderer's aim i

trial.

mm.'nf many, could fca-o! find one.

EXP

Who here

'

»'Qodv.-trd.

to hurt him.
This makes her bleedingpaticnts toaccufe
AdJifon's SpecJatar.
A fool might once himfelf alone expofe.
High Heav 'n, and thefe expoJluUtions ufe
Exponent of the ratio, or proportion between any
Now one in verfe makes many more m profe. Pope.
Could Nature then no private woman grace,
two numben or quantities, is the expormi arifing
Your fame and your property fuffer alike, you are
WhoDV we may dare to love with fuch a face? Waller.
when the antecedent ii divided by the confeouent
atonce<jr/>o/^^rf and plundered.
Expojliilation is a private accufation of one frienii
/>o*j.
thus fix u the exponent of the ratio which thirty
touching
To
lay
another, fuppofed not to have dealt lingly or
open
to examination,
bath to five. Alfo a rank of numbers in arithme- J.
confijcrately in the courfe of good fricndlhip. Aylijje.
Thofe who feck truth only, freely expofe
tical progreflion, beginning from o, and
their
placed over
principles to the left, and are plcafed
[from expojlulate.]
to have them Expostula'tor n.f.
a rank of numbers in geometrical progreflion, are
examined.
One that debates with another without
Locke
called indices or exponent! : and in this is founded
6.
To
put
in
danger.
the reafon and demonftration of logarithms; for adopen rupture.
Ihc expofirg himfelf notorioudv did change the
dition and fubtraftion of thefe exponents anfwets to
Expo'sTULAToxY, tidj. [(tom txpo^ulate.]
fortune ot the day, when his troops
multiplication and divifion in the geometrical numbegun to cive
Containing expeftulation.
8'-£""''•*»•
CUrendon.
.
Harris.
,
This fable is a kind ol an expojiulatory debate beo
caft
7.
1
out
to
chance.
Expone'ntial. ff<^'. [from exponent.]
tween
Bounty and Injiatitude.
VEJirange.
A father, unnaturally carelefs of his child, gives
Exponential curves are fuch as partake both of
^"''^" '"^" < ""<• '" »gJin exp',fes him a Expo'suRE n.f. \iiCim. expofe.]
the nature of algebraicfc and tranlcendciitial ones.
third man finding him, breeds
up and provides for 1. The aft of expofmg orfettingout to obThey paruke of the former, bccaufc theyconfill of
him as his own.
a linite number of terms though thofe terms themLocke
fervation.
Helplefi
and naked on a woman's knees.
felves are indeterminate ; and they aie in fome
2. The Hale of being open to obfervation.
To
be
expot'd
or
rear'd as Ihe maypleafe.
meafure tranfcendental, becauTe they cannot be alWhen we have ouraikcd frailties hid.
Keel her neglcft, and pine for her
gebraicallyconftrufled.
difeafe.
Prior.
Harris
That fulFer in expofure, let ts meet ii7juKef. Mad.
8. Tocerifure; to treat with
To EXPO'RT. -v. a. [exporlo, Latin.] To
difpraife.
3. The ftate ol being expofed, or being
collotjuial abufc of the word.
carry out of a country, generally in the
liable to any thing.
A little wit is equally capable of rxHofing a
way of traffick.
t)ctermlne on lome courle.
beauty, and of aggravating a fault.
Addifon's Sp,a.
Glorious followers taint bufinefs for want of feMore than a wild cx/'j/i/rftoeach chance
Jixposi'TioN n.f. \iiam. expofe.]
crecy, and export honour from a man, and mike
That ilarts i' th' way before thee. Shal!. Corioknus,
1. The
fituation in which any thing
him a return in envy.
Bacon.
is 4. The ftate of being in danger.
Edward III by his encouragement of trade, turnplaced with rcfpeft to the fun or air.
Ajax fets Therfites
ed the fcale fo much in favour of Englilh merVVater he chufes clear, light, without
To match us in comparifons with dirt;
tafte 01
chandife, that, by a balance of trade taken in
fmell i drawn from fprings with an
his
To
weaken and i'lCcicdit ear expofai e.
eafterly expujitime, the exported commodities amounted to
two
How hard foever rounded in with danger. Shakefp.
'"'-^^ ,Arbutbnot.
,,
hundred ninety-four thoufand pounds, and the imI he diverfity of expofition
of the feveral kitchens
Expofition ; the fituation in which the
.
ported but to thirty-eight ihouiand. Addif. Freeh.
in this city, whereby fome receive the
rays of the
fun or air is received,
Great (hips brought from the Indies precious
fun fooner, and others later, will occafion
great irwood, and Mj»sr/f</ pearls and robes.
1 he cold now advancing fct fuch plants as will
regularity as to thctime of dining.
Arhaihnot.
Ar6ulh::ot.
not endure ihe houle, in pots, two or three inches,
E'xpoRT. n.f. [from the verb.] Commodity 2. Explanation
interpretation : [from c.v;
lower than the furtace ol fome bed, under a fouthern
carried out in traffick.
pound, expoiio, Latin.]
exp,fur,.
Evelyx.
Exforta'tion. n.f. [from/*-/er/.] The
My lord of York, it belter fhew'd with vou,
To
v. a. [expmtp, Latin.]
When that your flock, alTembled hy the bel'l.
aft or pradice of carrying out oommo
1.
explain ; to clear; to interpret; to
Encircled you, to hear with reverence
dities into other countries.
Your rxpfiiKn on the holy text. Shakeff. Hen. IV.
(hew the meaning of.
The caufe of a kingdom's thriving is fruitfulncfi
You are a worthy judge
We cannot belter interjiret the meaning of thofe
•f foil to produce neceflarics, noi only fufficient
f»r
Vou know the taw : your expofiiion
woids than pope Leo himlclf fA:^:'.v;/,/c,^ ihern whole
the inhabitants, but fcr exptriaiitn into other
Hith been molt found, Shukrfp. Mercb.
fpecch
concerning our Lord's af.eufujii, may fene
countries.
of Venice
.Suifi.

EXPCNENT. ». f. [from ^A-/e»(j, Latin.]

WA°

:

A

EXPO'UND.
To

I

Expo'rter. »,/. [from exfirt.]

He

that
carries out commodities, in opr,ofitjon
to
the importer, who brings them in.

Moaey will be mcicd liuwn, or cartjcd aw,iy in
com by the enporirr, whsiner the pieces of ea.

ot

have fometimes very boldly made fuch

7» EXPO'JiE.

-u.

a.

[expona,

Loete.

expojiium,

Lat. expojer, French.]
I.

To lay open

to make liable.
;
Take Phyfie Pomp

Expofe thyfelf roieel what wretcJiea fetl.

That thou ojay'ft fliake the fuperflui to ihem.

And n.ew Heaven jult.

Vol,

1.

ikikeffeare't kinr Lear
*

inltead of a marginal glofs.

^
Expositor
n.f {expoftor,

Latin.]
plaincr ; expounder ; interpreter.

E.x-

things concerning himJelt.
Luke. xxiv. a"
Thofe right holy latherj, as in matters of faiih
they did not make truth, but rcligioully expounded

A mirth.inoving jeft.
Which hi-: fjir tongue, conceit's ixpofitor,
Uehiers lu fuch apt and gracious words,
'that aged ears play truant at his tales.
.Siairfpeare.
Ill the piSure of Abraham's
facriticing his fon,
Ifaac isdelcribed as a little boy,
which is not con
tantaiieouj unto ilieauthority of cxpiftort.

The

tinner's confcience

the miod ot

it

Hooker.

Thisby Calphurnia'sd. eamisfign'&d.
tlii', way you have weii cxp;tfn,.eu it.
Shakif.
He expounacd unto them in all the Scriptures the

—And

Dryden.

,

li

fpecies be by the law bigger or lefs.

expMon's

mv authors, as no commentator will forgive me.

Br^-wn.

the bed expifiicr 01

Go^ undw any judgement oralHicVion.

South' sUtrmoni.

matters of eccleliaftical goicrnmcnl, ihey
hut ordered the coumrics
which they then had.
Raleigh.
it; fo

in

did not create piovinces,

2,

To examine

to lay open
He expounded both his pockets.
;

:

a Latinifm.

And found a watch with rings and lockcis. Uudihras
Ex po'u N D F R. ;/. /. [from exptunJ.] Explainer; interpreter,
•

^'

This.

And faithfulleli exfounjeroiihi laws. Dryd. Jav.
[txprima,

exprfus,
.

Latin].

To copy; to rsCemble; toTeprefcnt.

1.

So kids and whcjps their (ires and dims (xpr,fi.

DryJm.

And fo the ^eat I m.-afurM by the lefs.

Adorn a di-eam, exprijJSis^ human form,
' The (hapcof him whofutftied in (he ftom. /)rvi^<-«.
2. Tp reprefent by any of the imitative artis;
as poetry, fculpture, painting.
Each (kilful artift (hall cxfrtf! thy form
Tnaninuttd f:old. Smiih'i PiiaJra anil lll^^.litm.

To reprefent in words

3.

language; to utter

;

Ts

filprefi

any

.

llooker.

evidtntc whatibever; even that of a melTenger feni
Ait«l>urj.
/jfpry/iftbm the other woUd'.

Articles of belief, and things which all men muft
Jo, to the end they may be faved, are eitlxirfxfrffily fetdown in Scripture, or elfe plainly thereby

Rxi-re'ss. //./. [from theadjeftive.]
meffenger fent on pur^ofe,
.

A

Who dare crofs-'en),.
Bearing the king's will (ramhKmoMhexfrr/ilji f

Clarendm.

Hikierfpetirf,

As V rxpfeffei fiwm' all parts Had come.
With ffelb alaritis threat'ning the-fatc of Rome.

to declare.

The beginnii^ of the worlhip of images in tbefc
weftern parrs, was by the folly and fitperftition of the
people ixprcfilj againlt the will o) their own bi-

Dryd. J«-u

MilKn.
EiK-/ bi-J concejl the reft.
Though tl.cy have learned tliofe found?, yet there

Uppn

the firft moment I was difcovcred, the em-

This account I exprrfsij give of them, when I
Allerbury
enter on the ai^iiment.

Gutliver'ttravelt.

A mefiage fent.

I.

:

True-wit is nature to advantage drcIV,
Wfiat oft was thought, but ne'er lb wtW rxprfJI. Pope.
Others forlanjuajre all their care exprrfs,
And value books, as women men, for drcfs. Pupe.

All the duties that the be(V political laws enjoin,,
conducive to the quiet and order of focial hfe^..
Rogers,.
arc ej:/»r^/y commanded by our religion.

-am content my

heart (hould be difcovered to
the w-orld, without any of thofe popular captations
which fomc men ufe in their fpeechcs and exprej/es.
King Charles.
I

as

Expre'ssure. K. /.

all logick and

Expre'ssi-b-lh. eiifj. [from fxfrr/r.l
1. That may be uttered or declared.
manner.
in
any
known
or
make
4. To ilicw
They had not only a m'emory and tradition of it
bodice aptly lace.

No longer (hall thy

Prior.
Tine by degrees, and delicately lels.
_
utter; to declare ; with the reciprocal

Mr.

preflion.

Popt.

To denote

to defignate.
;
Mofes and Aaron took thcfe men exprrffed by
I\umb.\.\n.
their names.
To fquceze out; to force out by com-

6.

T hat may be drawn by fqueezing or ex-

2.

much in-

Philips did exprtfi Unlfetf vi\Ch

Among the watry juices of fruit are all the frtits
cut of whii.h diiak is. txprejftd\ as the grape and
Bacon.
the apple.
_
extort by violence, or dicite by art
8.
:

thing,
There

nothing comparable to the variety of 1
inftruftiVe expyejpons by fpcecli, wherewith a man
alone is endowed, as with an inlh-ument fuitable to

Ben yonfcn.

brii:£s

MlUtn

2. Plain'; apparent; declared in direft terms
There hath been f.irte doubt whether containin;^
in Scripture do impott exprefi fetting down in plain
terms ; or die compiehcnding in fuch fort, that by
rcafon we may from thence conclude all things which
fjcoter.
ate necelTary.
There is not any pofitive latv of men, whether
general or particular, received by formal exf\'rf\
sonfrnt as in councils; or by fccrct approbhtion ;
b'jt tl'.e fam^ may be taken away, if occalion ferves.
Hooker.

All the gazers on the fkics

Read not in fair heav'ns (fory
Exprrjprr truth, or truer glory.

her in as a pcmtent, c-ondcmning her ov.-n
Broome.
very (Irong exprtffions.

intiilelity in

3.
4.

1 will drop fome obfcure epiftles of love, whcrrin,
by the colbilfof his beard, the' manner of his gait,
the cxprejfsre of his eye, forehead, and complexion,
Shdkffp.
he fli'illfind himfelf perfonatcd.
Not ufed.
This mark ; the impreflicm.
.

.

And nightly, meadow fairie;, look you ting,
Th' exprfjfurt that it bears, green let it be.
Mure tertile frcfli than all the (iftd-to fee. Shakrfp^.

ToE'XPROBRATE. 'V. a._\fxprohro. Lato
tin.] To charge upon with reproach
;

impuW only with blame ; to upbraid.
To txproitate iheic llupidity, he induces the
providence of ftorks: now if the bird had been
unknown, the illullralion had been obfcure, and,
Brotvu,
the erprobration norfo proper.

T he form or mode of language in which
Exproer.^'tion.
any thoughts are uttered.
But ill exp,£i(.n fomelimes give allay
To noble thoughts, whofe flanle (hall ne'er decay.
Buckingham.
The poet, to reconcile Helen to his reader,

Art did rxpt'rft
A quinJeiftnce even from nothingncfs

With goodnefs and paternal love j his face

of his foul, for the comitiunication of
HclJtr on Speech.

his thoughts.

z.

Halters and racks cannot exprtp from thee.
More than thy deeds: 'tis only judgement waits tKce.

Still following thee, (tiP compafliiig thee round

is

tlie excellency

a Latlnifm.

Donne,
From dull privalives and lean emptinefs,
ExrRii'ss. aJj. [from the verb.]
J. Copied; rcfembling ; exaftly like.
Of his prefence many a lign

expre/s.']

The aft or power of reprefenting any

I.

preffion.

ExpTffi, and of his lieps ihc track divine.

Mot ufed.

Like to the garter-compafs in a ring;

Kxprk'ssion. »./. [from

•J.

To

,

prejjille,

pronoun.

A phiafe

Not ufed..

Which hath an operation morcdivinc.
Than breath or pon cm give exfrrjj'itre 10. Sbakefp.
The form ; the likeneis reprefented.

fuccccdingages, with notes of the greatell terror «pf^oodtvard' l Kalural Hijlmy.

To

Now.

There is a myftery in the foul of ftale.

in general, but even of feveral particular acciddnts of
it likewife, which they handed downwards to the

That air and Ihape of harmony expfefi,

dignation againfl me one cv'ening.

Expreflion; utterance.-

I.

Nonis.

common fcnfe.

[itortt exp>re/i.

difufcd.j

3. A' declaration in plain terms. Not ufual.
They do not only contradifl the general defign and
particular cxpreffex of the gofpel, but trefpafs againft

To Ihed tears, among the ancients, whe.-i they
(hould (x/ir«/j their jr.uiti;de to the gods with joy,
Bn/imc.
was e(teemcd a prophanation.

Slillifigjleel.

(liop.

peror had early notice of itby an expre/s.

are no dctirrtiincd' ideas' 1-aid- up in their minds,
which are to be cxfreJfiJ to others by theih. Ijicltr.
nlatlts that
Ill moral ideas we h«Ve no fenllble
-.ve
rereinfcle tHeift, whereby we canfct thcnidown
bav« nothing bttt vvords lofxprt/i them by. Loeke.

€.

Hookei,

to be galhewdl

fent an exfrrfi immediately to the
marquis, with all the particular informations.

The king

by

to exhibit

or fcripture

lor

opinion, or uilion, w« may rec«i« itasof divint iBxi-Re'sslv. adj. [from escprefs.']
In dirtfl
Lotkf,
authority.terms; plainly; not by implication ; not
end.
particular
Oh purpofe; for a
general ly.
They who arc not induced to btlieW and'live as
It dbth not follow, that <rf neceflity we (haU fin,.
they ought,- by thole difcovetics which Gsd hath
unlcfs we (-x/>>-//!/y extctid this in every p-artienlar.
made in Scripture, would ftatid out againft' any

Lcfsthao halfwe'iind,-A-«;i_/i,

.

,

;

The murrain has all the exprfjivrmffi that wordsit wa« here that Virgil ftrained hard to
can give
AdHfttt.
outdo tucretius'.
:

Where rcafoft

The beft he was,
a.

tion by words.

Slili'ngjiift-

Hooker.

teachers, and perfuaders thereof.

The power of cxprcrtion, or reprefent«*

As to the tc?\imbi1)cs of the fathers, let ihem be
never fo .•J7>i('/iagaiuft all forts of praj-er* and invocatibnsj they hold-only of fuch a fort of prayer.

Jliit they i\i partly a? fiUfiful witneflc* ; nwWing

• men relation of what God himftlf fin* rt>*al«il
unto them; and partly as ca.e.'ul txi-owtdnt,

So EXPRE'SS. -v.

EX F

EXP

EXP

;

a

mode of fpeech.

The aft of fqueezing or forcing out any
thing by a prefs.
Tliofe juices that are fo flelhy, as they cannot
m.%ke drink by expre^ou, yet may make drink by
Bacon.
misturc of water.
The iuiccs of the leaves are obtained by exprej/son:
Arhuthnot.
from this juice proceeds the talle.

[irom exprf/s.'] Having

Expre'ssive. adj.
the power of utterance or rcprcicntation.

With o/"l')efore the thing exprcfled.

O'erldok her crimes, and think (he ought to live
TickeH.
And four fair tjueens, whofe handsfuftain a riow'r,
Th' exprejk'e emblem of their foftcr pow'r. Pope.
.\ viliblc and exemplary o'hcditnce to Cod's laws
!

ma-

is the
Ben Jinfon.
Than they might in her bright eyes.
jefiy and fovercignty of God, and difpofes others to
be
This
feems
to
dubious.
Rogers.
glorify him by the fame obfervances.
J. Clear; not
DO proper ufe.
Expre'ssively /id'v. [from cxpreffi've.'\ In
^yc tolcel myfelfof an txprefi and fettled judga clear and ttprefentacive way.
fkbrMid afliaioij in things oi the grcaieft moment.
[from txprcjpve]
Mtre'i Div, Dial. ExFRi'ssiTENtss. ».

/

[from fxprobraie.~\

Hooker.
brmion, not of grief.
The Parihi.-.nst with exproirarion of Craffus'i
thirll after money, poured gold into his mouth 'after
Abbot.
he was dead.
it will be a denial with fc«m, with a taunting
com*
without
exproiration; and to be miferable
Soush's Scrm.
mileiMtion, is the height of mifery.
No need fuch bo;;ft6, ot e>eprobrdllom{i\k
Of cowardice the military mound
:

The Britilh tiles tranfceud in evil li«ur
Kortl«irpioudf(^s.
Ttf

PhUipt,

ExPSoVRTAtE. •v.tr.[fx TiisA prof tires,
Latin.] To make no longer our own to
hold no longer as a property. Not in ufe.
;

Each vcrfe lb fwells expreffive at her woes

And ev'ry tear in lines lo mourntul Hows,
We, fpiie of fime,licr fatcievcrs'd believe,

moft expreffive acknowledgement of the

». /.

Scornful charge; reproachful accufation ;
zi\ of upbraiding.
The goodnefs wc glory in, is to (ind out fome
what whereby we may judge others to be ungodly t
each other's fault we obl'etvc as matter of expro.

When you have religned, or nlhcr configncd
your expropriated wUl to God, and thc/tby entrulVed him to Will for you, all-J.is difpenfations towards
you are, inefl'edt, the atls ot yourown will.
Boylt's Serafhick Love,
To EXPU'GN.-t;. <j. {(xpugno, Latin.] To
conquer to take by aflault.
Expugna'tton. «./. [from expagn.l Conqueft the aft of taking by aflault.
;

"

;

The exps/gmiliui of Vicuna he
comblifh.

could mverac-

Sand,

E'X:f

•rE

'Tc EXPU'LSE. f. rt. \exfiul/us,l^un:] To
drive out; to expel; to force away.
For ever IhoulJ theyTie txptils'J from France.
Shahfp.
And not have tiile of aarldom there.
Suppafe a nation vherc the cuftom *«re, that
.

after full age the Ibns fhould expulje their fathers
.«nd mothers out of pollciTiaas, and put them to

Bacon's lialy War.
Inwardly received, jt.mnj be very diurecick, and

•their peniipns.

There wants exfurgiln'i-y animadyer(i«ns, whereby we .might ftrike out grsat .numbers of hidden
qualities ; and having once a conceded iitl, we njigl)t
Vroix'n.
with more fafety attempt their reafons.
E'XQUISITE. adj. [exqiiij^tus, Latin.,]
I .

excellent ;

"

Afi/ion.

'

it

poffible fo to

coatrivc

that,

feveral

by their con-

^Auai attrattion and txpuljion of one another, tijey
JTay caufe a perpetual revolutioaof a wheel.
H'tlkinVi Dad.ilus.
This magnificent temple was not iiniQied 'till after.
the rxijilji-.n of Tarquin.
StiUin^fiect.
Couec-coloured urine proceeds from a mixture of
• Dnall quantity of blood with the urine ; but often
Ariuibntl.

To what end had the aujcl been font to keep
'the entrance into Paradife, after Adam's f'x-^.v^/jrt,
iflheuniverfe had been Paradife ?/J«/f/j/j'r////.'»ry.

Having

.With exju'/iie malice (hey have mired.the gall
and v'megar of falfity and contempt. JCmg'Ciarlet.
}.

Very ferifibly felt.

making too painful and fxju!/ite imprcdion oh the

'

"lExpo'NcrioN. n.f. \ftom expunge.^ Abolition ; the aft of expunging, blotting,
or effacing.
e. [fxpHugo, Latin.]
^0 EXPU'NGE.
to rub ont.
ft. To blot out
-tj.

;

The difference of the denarius and drachm having .been done in the nunurcripti it lyai necdiefs to
Artuihitm.
txfun-iC it.
Nciiher dolhey remember the many alterations,
•dditions, and fxpuight^i made by great authors in
thofe trcjitifcs which they prepare for the publick.
S'wlfl.

To efface; To annihilate.
Wilt thou not to a broken heart difpcnfe

The balm of mercy, and nfiwgt ih'. offence ?
Hantlytt

DeduA what is but vanity, or drefs.
Or learning's luxury, or idlencfs.
Or tricks to flieiv the ftrctch of human brain
Mere curious pleafurc, or ing»iious pain
Expunge the whole, or lop tji' ercrefcent parts
Ofall, our vices have cmied arts
Then fee how little the remaining fum.
Which fivvc the pall, and mull the time to come
:

I

I'opt.

aExpD.ROA'TioN. «./. [expurgatio, Latin.]
1, The aa of purging or cleanfmg.
.Ail the inteiltncs, but cfpccially the gtcat ones*
kidneys, and uretcrc>,fervc ioxexputgaiiott. H'ijtm.irt-

Vkeyne..

nefves.

Exqjji'siTELY. fl</'v. [iiom^rxquijiif.^ Perfeftly ; completely ; in either a good or
ill

If the member be dependent, by railing of it up,
ind placing it equal with, or higher tharv the rell
of the body, the influx may be retrained, and the
fViJerKan.
part ibrcnginencd by ^x^w^fvc bandages.

.».

from

bad mixture,

as

of

with both open ;

for that the fpirits vifual unite
themfclves, and" become llronger. Bacon* s Sat, Hiji.
collection of rare manulcripts, ex^uijitely written in Arabick, and fought in the mDJr remote parts
by Epcnius, the moll excellent linguilt.
IPoiton.
I'he foldier then, in (Grecian arts unikiU'd,
Returning rich with plunder fium the held,
If cups oi filver or of gold be brought.
With jewels fct, and ex^uijiiely wrought,
To glorious trappings ftrait the plate he turn'J,
And with the glitt'nng fpoil his horfe adorn 'd Dryd.
The poejry of operas is generally as- ex'^rtijire/v ill

A

E'xQuisiTtNEss.

It.

/.

.^XPu'acATor.

»./.

One who corrects by

expunging.
They may well b« allowed sn expurgalar.

Employed
noxious

:

in

purging

away what

as, the expurgatory index

Romanics dirc&

the abolition

Tlic order of the Utile rxtjncles, and confequcntl^
that of .the htlle deprMfwis, will be altered likewife.

Boyle OH Colottrs.

E'XTANT. adj.{<-xtam. Latin.]
Standing out to view ; Handing above the

1

reih

That part of the t«eth which is extant aOiovi the
gums is naked, and not inverted with that fenfible
membrane called peiiofteuni, wherewith the other
bones arc covered.

"

If

is

of tbc
or ex-

Ray.

a body have part of

extant, and part of it
ioimeiled in flu d, then fo much of the fluid as ii
equal in bulk to the immcrfed part ihall be equal in
gravity to the whole.
MfHtley.

2.

it

I'ublick ; not fupprelTed,

The tirfl of the continued v\c';kly bills of mor.
at

the pari (h clerks hall, begins the

twenty-ninth of December, t6oj.

We fuppofe ihe fupcrficies of the two glalTei Ihould

'

Graunt,

be fo ciaoQjrAat and fmooth, iJiai no air at all can
come between- them; and experience has informed,
us, th.^t it is extremely diflkult to procure from our
ordinary tradcfmen either glalTes or maiMcs fo much
as approaching fuch an expiijitcnefs.
BjyU.

Exta'tical. T ci^'. [«»fi»Tix<i5, SeeEcsTAExTa'tICK. J
CY.]
1. Tending to fomething external.

E'xscRiPT. ft. f. [ex/(ripiiim, Latin.] A
copy; a writing copied from another.
Exsi'ccANT. fli^'. \fxom exf.Kaie.l Drying;
having the power to dry up.

continually carries me to good without myfelf. Boyle,

Some are moderately moill, and require to be
treated with medicines of the like natuie, fuch as
flelhy parts ; others dry in themfelves, yet require
exjiecanttt as bones.
H'Jfetnt^/i.

To EXSl'CCATE.

-v.

a,

1

2.

me a great J:al (jf ,-xtai!.aJ\o\e, whick

Rajiturous; in a flare in which the foul

feems to leave tht biody.
In trance extatick, may thy pangs be drowo'd;
Bright clouds Jefceud, and angals watch thee round.

Pope.

ExtE MPORAL. adj. [e.xtemporalii, Latin
1.

Latini]

[exjicco,

find in

To dry.

j

Uttered without fremeditation; tjuick;
ready ; fudden.
Akidim^s the fpphifter hath jujunients to prove,

ifiiat

If in a diffblution of (lecl a reparation of parts fie

dilated fpeevh.
Uonker.
A man of pleafant and popular converfation, of
good ejtttmporul judgment and iilL-OMtf!:, for the

made by precipitation, or exhalation, the cxfccatfd
'

adl of drying.
That which is concreted by

Broiu/i.

fatisfyidg ot publick miniltqrs.

2.

.H-'oitom,

.

Spenking without prcmeditntion.
Many foolifli things fall from wife men, if they

fpeak in hafte, or be exiempnral.
txfitcatio/i, or cx-

humidity, will be refolved by hume^taBrm>>t.
diet, and clay.

tion ; as earth,

vokiniaiy.and «;f«»/>f«/ far c»ceedeth pieme.

gen JoiJ'.n.

Exte'mporally. adv. [From rxlempora/,'}
Qiii«kly; without premeditation.

The quick comedians

,

Lord Dig^y.
ExPc'RtJATORY. adj. \expiirgatoriiis, Latin,

Baeoit,

fition to thofe depreffed.

Nicety ; perfeftion.

preffion ot
,

without vapouring.

tality, eiftani

Exsicca'tibn. «./. \isoTa exjiccate.] The

Brozun.

fitgtiiioii,

ro Exsu'sciTATE. -.J. a. [fx/tt/Mo, Ijaun.]
Taroufe up; to ftir up.
E'xTANcy. a./, [from e.vtatt/.]
1. The ftate of rifing above the reft,
2. Parts rifing np above the reft 5 in oppo-

[frcmj txquijiie.\

txpurgaiin ; and if the courfc of truth be pcrmittea
cannot ^ape many errours.

Of volatility, the molt degree is when it will fly
away without returning: the next is when jt will
9y up, but with ^afc return; the next is when it
will fly upwards over the helm, by a kind of ex-

.

Aildifan an Italy.

as the mulic is good.

Great heats and ij^oM^ti fxjicca!tr Atii watlc the
moifiurc and vegetative nature of the earth.
'
Mortimer's ih//handry.

if

Exchange me for a goat,

When I (hall turn the bufinafs of my foul.
To fuch exfuffoUte and blown furmifes.
Shakefp.
Ex,suffla'tion. n. f. [ex mifufflo, Latin.] A bl.tft working undcrneatiii.

We fee more cxpajitily with one eye Ihut than

errour or falfehood.
Wife men know, that arts and Iramin? want
to ftlclf,

To whifper; to buzz in
the ear ; from the Italian verb/a^tf/ac.

fenfe.

powder atcenjs not unto the loadltone.

2. Pofification

Derham.

'

to Skakc/ptare.']

Confummately bad.

The fcalcs* of ihe {i;«rf.<^in hinder objeils from

«, The (late of being driven out.

fcxPu'tsiVE. aJj. [itO!& exjiul/e.\
the power of expulfion.

fome petrifying juices out of the rocky

earth.

Autrl/urj'.i Sermam.

ufe of thein.

2.

j)t>gnQlVicates a refolution of the obftrufting matter,

^nd the expuljhn of gravel or a (lone.

an extillatiop ; an emif-

'i'hey feemed to be made by an exfudatlor, or er.
tillation of

Hoober.

'

great a navy
charge of keeping and maintaining
Raleigh,
iii fuch exquijiu perfection and rcadiaefs.
Adam and Eve, bcfoi: the fall, w«ie a difereat
fpecies ; and none but a poet of the moA unbovnded
invention, and the moft r/ey«//?/<',judjraeat, could
have fitted their converfationand.bchaviour to their
AdJtJon.
(late of innocence.
The pleafures of fenfe are probably. r-!ithed by
beads in i mMt. exquifttt degree than, they are by~
menj for they taftc them finccre and.purr, withogt
being diilrafteJ in the purfuit,.«r difquietcd in the

A wooer,

ki

;

Why Ihould the ftate be troubled with this needlefs TiExsu'FFoi.ATB. f. a. [a word
peculiar
fo

Kfore hattful thaii this foul txpuljion \i,
ShaiiJ'ptart'i CymbcUnt.
jOt thy dear huflund.
'
.V.-im th' exputjton of his foes,
?
()...

A fweatlng out

.fion.

"•'-

Jjcp.u'lsion. n. f. [from expulfe.'\
-«. The a^ of expelling or driving oat.

^ecesof Iteei and a load-lloce,

Exsxjda'tiqn. n.f. [from exudo, Latin.]

confuairaate,;

unttj that which is.moft exjuljiie in i;»ery particular.

_

^J^:

Farfought ;
complete.

.ing with the thing fucked.
If you op.cu the valvd, and force up the fucker,
after. this firft rxJuBion, you will drive out almoll a
whole cylinder fuUof air.
Boyle.

Hjs absolute exadlnefs they imitate hy tendii^

D'ldys relates, that Pelus was ixfulftj from his
Broome.
kiogdf^m by \caftus.

:mphal cliaridt turn'd,

of fucking out, or draining out, wi^hotjt
immediate ccntadt of the power of Atek-

authors contrary to popery.

Bnttn.

exjt\lfi the rtoiie iji the kidneys.

•EXT

X S

pun^ion of paflages .admitted b/ any

Exsi'ccATlVE. «(/r'. [from ex/ttcate,} Hav-,
ExItmporaUy will ftagc us, and picfcnt
ing the power of drying.
Our Alexandrian revels. Shukejp. Ant. aadCUof.
Exspui'tion. «./- [fx/iKo, Latin.] A dif- ExtemPora'nfous. ndj: [extempomnruf,
charge of faliva by fpitting.
^tiinty.
Latin.] Without premeditation fudden.
Exsu'trioN. »,/. [m»^«, Latin J The«ft ExTE'MPORAiY, adj. [exteniptrarais, La;

4 Y «

tin.

^

EXT

EXT

EXT

Uttered or performed without premeditation; fudden ; quick.

adure U« that it exundelh farther than to tho(eth!nj5l
only wherein the natiotte were idolatrous ? Hooker.

tin.]

This cui^om Wis begun by our anceftorj out of
an ambition of (hewing their ixtrmfiorary ability of

faking upon any fubjeft. Mcrt*i Divine Dialog.
That men (hould confer at very rfiftjnt removes by
an txtemporary intercourfc

is

to communicate.
Let there be none to extend mercy unto him. P/»K
10. To feize by courfe of law.
The law that fettles all you do.

Glanv.

They write in fo diminutive a manner, with fuch
frequent interlineations, that they are hardly able to
noon without perpetual helitatioDS, or cxtemforarj^
Stvi/I.

expletives.

Ta Exte'no.

'•

di-

rteft o{iht benefit.

The per-

fon or inftrument by which any thing is
extended.

The extenfion'made, the extender! are to be loofened gently.

If^'/.

Ext'endible. adj. [from extend.]

mory

That may be feifed by law.

Extenfort are mufcles fo called, which ferve t»
Quincy.
extend any part.
Civil people had the flexors of the head very
llrong ; but in the infolent there was a great over*
balance of ftrcngth in the extenfort of the neck.
Ai tulhnct and Pope's Mart. Srrii.

Exrt'nr. /iarticij>Je iiom extend. Extended.

limited extenfion. In tliis fenfe it is once
found; but, I think, with little propriety.
Certain wJeculx feminaUi mulV keep the world

from an infinitude and extendlejfnefs of excurlions
Hale.
every moment into new figures and animals.

Extensibi'litv. n. f. [from

ditation.
clement than in the pulpit; though even here,
it is much more excufable io a fermon than in a
Sauth*j SermcKS.
prayer.

To EXTE'ND. V. a.
1.

[extendo, Latin.]
I

mufcle, and

brane, follows the cradlion of the
drawn inward.

That love

is

blind is txlenjiile beyond the objefl

of poetry.

and fenfe of others would

appear a thanklefs office.

ffolicn.

Exte'nsiblbkess. »./. [frpm extenjibh.]

to diffufe; to expnd.

Capacity of being extended.
Exten'sio.m. «./. [from fA-/c^e, Latin.]
1 he aft of extending,
1 ,
z. The ftate of being extended.
The hiccough comcth of fulnefs of meat, efpe-

;

cm

extend
ftanding, who perfuades himfcifthat he
his thoughts farther than God eiifts, er imagine any

Loeke.

cipaniioii where he is not.

4.

To widen a large comprehenfion.
Few

ext nd their

towards

thoughts

L^ <"*'•

knowledge.
^.

univerfal

To rtrctch into aflignable dimenfions

m^e local

;

;

to

to magnify fo as to fill foii»e

aflignable place.
The mind, fay they, while you fufiata

To hold lier lUtion in the brain

eiaUy in children, which caufeth an extenfion of tho
Baca^.
Ilomach.
All the reft f.ilisficd at the poftuies of moderatios,
and none endure the extremity of Hcxure or extenBvoxvn.
fion.
This foundation of the canh upon the waters, or
exlt.vficn of it above the waters, doth agree to the

Burnet
antediluvian earth.
Hy this idea of folidity is the extenfion of body
diltingvifbed from the exlrnfi.n of fpace : the extenfion of body being nothing but the cohefion 01

;

You grant, at leafl Ihc is extended,
Etgothe whole dil'pute is ended.
enlarge ; to continue.
6.

Friar.

To

8.

Let my officers

Make an extent upon his houfe and land.
And turn him going.
To

Li,cke

To leflen ; to make fmall or flendet in

1

bulk.
becomes broad, from
I lis body behind his head
whence it is again extenuated all the way to the tail.
Gretv's Alttfeeum*

2.

To perfitt
In doing wrong, extenujtei not wrong,-

3.

look upon as contemptuoufly,

Exte'nsivk.
I.

Shakejp. Othello.
Nor let down aught in miil'ttre.
Upon his examinalion he denied little of that

m-jre.

wherewith he was charged, nor endeavoured mnch
to excufe or extenuate his fault; fo

wifely thinking to

woald not be underftood to recommend

he imtdc it enough for condemnation. Bacon.
Yet hear me, Sampfon, not that I endeavour
Milton,

To letren or extenuate my ofGtoce.
tt'atti.

That may be extended.

that, not very

make his oflience lefs by confef-

fion,

to all a

txienfive lengths

to which the modern! have advantcd them.

z.

'

VVhrn you Ihall thefe unlucky deeds relate.
Speak of me, as 1 am : nothing extenuate.

adj. \exttHji'viu, Latin.].

furfuit of thole fciences, to thofe

Bofition.

to degrade; to diminifh in

To leflfen in reprefentation; to palliate j
oppofite to aggravate.

4.

Wide; large.
i

;

Righteous are thy decrees on all thy works
Who can extenuate thee ? MHt<,n't Paradife Lojf,

quick

a^ upon the

To leflen
honour.

having great extent.
;
You run into thefe r.t/f»y/trrf/ j:hantafms, which

1

To Icffen ; to diminilh in any quality.

But makes it much more heavy.
Sbakefptnri.
But fortune there extenuates the crime
What's vice in me, is only mirth in him. Dryden.

drawn out

wriitglings up and down of pifmircs.

Shakefpeare's Atyoutike !t.

EXTENUATE, a. a. [extenuo, Latin.]

Exte'nsional. adj. [Uom extenjion.] Long

To enlarge the comprehenfion of any

Seeing it is not fet down how far the boundi of
teach, who can
lut fpctch cQiKcaunf dilCiailttude

Execution ; feizure.

4.

continuity of fulid,
the extctifion of fpace, the continuity of dnfolid, infeparablc, and immoveable parts.

Clover.

Troubled, confronted thus, and for th' exfnt.
Of equal j\iftice us'd with fuch contempt. Siake/p,

feparable, moveable parts; and

To Helen's bed the gods .lone aflign
Hermoine f cxtertd tlie regal line. Pc}>e't Odyjty.
or duration.
>j. To eticteafe by force
if much you note him,
Yon ftiall offend him, and extend his pafTion
?eed and regard him not. S'j.ikefp,are's Macielli.
The c«s of Tobit cariymg in therofelvei fome
•Aion ofthelrown, were aildiiionally promoted by
inai power which can extend \iK\t luiures into pto4udion of effefts, beyond citaied efficiencies.
Urtwn'r J^ittgar Errouri.

race.

CommunicatioD ; diftrrbution.
An emperour of Ramc,

3.

Glan-jille.

ar.d extending the lines

He much magnifies the capacity of his undcr-

Ariana^of Darius'

That rul'd th' extent of Alia.

is

Hdda.

Miltm.

com]>afs.

The ferpent, fubtleft beaft of all the Seld,
Of huge' ejrr^«/ fometimes.
Milton,

Capable of being extended to a larger
comprehenfion.

I.

oppofed to contraii.

To fpread abroad

fiulk ; fize ;

The malleous being fixed to an extenjpite mem-

It is Uifterible in any to ufe what liberty tb»y lift
in their own manner of writing; but the contriifting

3.

To juft extent over all Ifrael's forj.

breadth.

Should'ting d'od's altar a vile image (tands.
Pop*.
Belies his features, and extendi his bauds.

Spenfer.

Latin.]

David's true heir, and his lull fccptre fway

-

Capable of being ttretched into length or

.

\extentus,

n.f.

Space or degree to which any thing is extended.
If I mean to reign

1

2.

Exte'nsible. adj. [exte/ifio, Latin.]

See the figure of his lifelefs friend.

:

And fain to walh themfelves incciTantly.

Exte'nt.

extettjible.]

In what manner they are mixed, fo as to give a
Crew's Co/. Sacra.

To ftretch out towards any part.

To amplify

Eoth his hands moft filthy feculent.
Above the water were on high txteni.

fibre exienfibiUiy, who can fay ?

And his old fire, his hclplefs hand extend. DryJen.

2.

Not ufed.

The quality of being extenCble.

The extemperixjng faculty is never more out of
its

IVatti't Logick,

Exte'nsor. »./. [Latin.] The mufcle by
which any limb is extended.

[iwmextend.] UnThe faculty of fpeaking of afting with- Exte'ndlessness. ti.f.

out premeditation ; the ftate of being unpremeditated.
To Exte'mporize, 'v, ». [from txtemfort.'\
To fpcak extempore, or without preme-

arc of fervice.

2. Poflibility to be extended.
We take notice of the wonderful dilatability or
exterfivene/s of the throats and gullets of ferpents :
1 myi'clf have taken two entire adult mice out of
the liomach of an adder, whofc neck was not bigger
Ray en the Creation.
than my little linger.

Tubes, recently made of fluids, are eafilyleagthened ; fuch as have iften fuftired force, grow ri|id, and
Arhutinrt.
hardly extendible,
2.

Gcyv, Tongut*

An exienfivenr/i of underftanding and a large me-

Capable of extenCon ; capable to be made
wider or longer.

1.

Addifon.

exr/m^cr; diireriatioaupon a petticoat,

Largenefs ; difFufivenefs ; widenefs.
As we hai'e reafon to admire the excellency of
this contrivance, Jo have we u applaud the extenjive--

1.

lo reach any

Exte'nder. n./. [(wm extend.]

2, It is fometimes ufed as an adjeftive, but
very improperly.
,
I have known a woman branch out into a long

extenji'vc,'\

;

Hudiirat.

P/alnu.
The bijnefs of fuch a church ought 10 be no
greater than that unto which the voice of a preacher
Grm/nt.
of a middling lungs can ealily extend.

;

ExTE'MroRiNESs. tt. /. [from fxlempore.]

n.

Boyle.

[from

'Til impoflibie for any to pafs a right judgement
concerning them, without entering into moft of theft
circumftances, and furvcying thenv extenfively, and
comparing and balancing them all aright.
Hattt^

My goodnefs txtendeth not to thee.

paration.
ahakefpfwe.
Nothing great ought to be ventured upon without
preparation; but, above all, how fottidi it is to engage «f/rm/ we, where the concern is eternity ? South.
Haft thou no mark at which lo bend thy bow ?
Or, like a boy, purfu'll the carrion-crow
With pellets and with rtones from tree to tree,
Dry Jen.
A fruitlefs toil, and liv'll extempore?

Exte'nsively. ad-v.
Widely largely.

ftance.

Without premeditation ; fuddenly ; reawithout any previous care or predily
Vou may do it cxttntfcre : for it is but roaring.

1'.

atthatwhiah

the hammer.

Exte'nsivekess. «./. [from extetijhve.]

Will foon ^ar.v;i^ her for your bride j

And put her perlijn, goods or lands,
Or which you like beft int' your hands.

EXTE'MPORE. c^dv. [ex tempore, Latin.]
1.

;

is moft ixtenfive under

And marries where you did but woo;
And if it judge upon your fide.

another reputed im-

pofflbility.

To impart

9.

Silver beaters chufethc fined coin,

Not ufed.

J.

6.

To make lean.
To make rare; oppofed to den/e.
The

EXT

EXT

The race of all things here is to txtinuait 'and
turn things to be more pneumatical and rare, and
not to retrograde from pneumatical to that which is

be.

dcnfe.

the earth

Ti/ioi/'m.

upon the furfacc of
the injuries of weather, to be trod
upon by horfes and other cattle, and to m.iny other
external accidents, are, in traiS of time, broken to

palliation,

to the

2. Mitigation; alleviation of punifliment.

vhil deeds of charity we can alledge in exttnuation
ofourpunifliment.
Attirbury.

A lofs of plumpnefs, or a general decay

Soutb,

hollow coneputupon a candle to quench it.
If it Ihould ever offer to Bame out again, 1 would
ufe the conicum as an extinguijher to fmother it.

[exterior,

and exterior to the ei-

illence of that thing.

Loclte.

Exte'riorly. adv. [from exteriy.- ] Outwardly ; externally; not intrinficaUy.
You have flan4cr*d nature in my form;

God requires, and it is common to

Sbakefp

EXTERMINATE, •v. a. [extermim,

Arbutbnot en Coins.
the vices of
men did not captivate their reafon, to explode and
exterminate rank atheii'm out of the world. Be.ttiey.
if

[from txtermi-

Deftrudtion ; excifion.

The queftion is, how far an holy war is to be
purfued, whether to difplanting and extermination
of people ?
Bactn.

Extermina'tor. n.f. [extermiaalor, Lat.]
The pcrfon or inftrument by which any

To exterminate

;

If you do forrow at

not intiin-

2.

Outward: not proceeding from ii'tlf;
operating or ading from w illiout oppo:

flte to inltrnal.

Vie ccnic To br aflur'd th.it there is fuch a
bcinr,
cither by an inlrroal imptelTion of the notion 01
<",od upon our minds, or elfe by fuch xtcrnaJ
ai.<!
to

Umc

It is

mul) be atiricauft, and wUith we cannot attn-

aft of rooting out ; eradication; cxcifiou;
It

tion,

faid that popery, for

want of utter exiirf ailourillicd

Hooker.

Religion requires

The ftate of being quenched.

pilTions and vices

extirpation

the

of

all thofe

which render men unfociable and

troublefome to one another.

Tillvijon.

Extirpa'tor. )t.f. [from extirpate.]

One

who roots out; a deftroyer.

Deftruftion ; excifion.

ExTispl'cious. adj.

of this dcftruifive
Rogeti's Sermons.

uncoiurived comingences, divining events fuccecd-

Tbomfon.

To EXTI'NGUISH. ru. a. [exiingtio, Lat.]
1. T o put out; to quench.
The folt god of picafure that warmM our defires,
Has broken hisbow, and fx/f^^iy/^'i/hi> fires.
Thenrofe the feed of chaos and of night,

hrovn's Vulgar Emurs.

ing.

To
'

'

Drydcn.

To blfjt out order, and ixtit'guijh light.

Latin.]

Tiius hath he deluded many, nations unto his
auguiial and C'lifpicious invention , from cafual ar.d

riiiy lie in dead oblivion, lofinghalf

Total exiinnioi! of the enlighten'd foul.

[e.xlj/idiim,

Hgurial ; relating to the itvfpeftion of
entrails in order to prognofticalion.
'

The ilccting inomea(s of too (hoit a life.

To fupptcfi; to dcllroy.

is

hath in fome places taken root and

again.

4. isuppreflion.

2.

exiiipaie the

•deftruftion.

The extiirSiion of nations, and the defoljtion of

us

to

Add/fun' i Shf£l.

Extirpa'tion. u /. [(xamextirpriie.] ihe

The aft of quenching or extinguifliing.

'"''•

Locke.

not the buiinefs of virtue

affcftions, but to regulate them.

Aylige.

.

kutcd

own to another's door ; tfie breed ought to be txiiit.
yj<^e^ out of tlic Itlaiid.

[extinaio, Latin.]

clfefts

Dryden,

Wc in vain enJcivour to drive the wolf from our

tlai ifey.

EXTE'RNAL. adj. [^.r/.r»»r, Latin.]

lelJi

that kingdom.

defccnd to

iui/t.

kingdoms, were but the

Latin]

to exftind ;]

The rebels were grown fo ftrong th.it they made
account fpeedily to extirpate the Britilh nation in

The parts are confumcd through extinSlion of their
native heal, and diflipation of their radical moifture.
3.

;

to deftroy.

law be eitinCl, or the lawgiver removed from his

Exti'nction, n.f.

[cxtirpo.

To root out; to eradicate

Ked-hot needles or wires, extinguifhed in quickdo yet acquire a verticity according to the
1.1WS of pofuion and extinHion. fifttcn's f^u/g. Err.

the rare body not being lb able to refill dinfn r. as
thedenfc, and being not permitted to retire b„tk,
by reafon of ihe extern violence impelling it, the
patu of the rate body mult be fevered.
/)/>*»

our reafun

To EXTl'RPATE. ^. a.

A renfure inflided a jure continues, though fuch

;

vifible cfl'fdls as

Fairy 0.
Nor (hall that nation boalt it lb with us,
But be extirpeJ from our provinces.
^hak.efpearu

filver,

Cck not depending on itfelf.
When two bodies ate prellcd one againft another,

I.

Down in a darkfome lowly place far in.

Abolilhed ; out of force.

3.

1.

In compliment extern, 'tis not lr<n- after
But I wdl wrar my heart upon my lleeve
For daws to peck ar.
v
Sbakejf. OthelU.
;

To

Not ufed.

eradicate; to root out.

Job.

ctfice.

When my outward aAion dolh demonftrate
The native aft and figure of my heait

not ii(?ierent

His heart eafily conceived trcafon agaiiill the
crown, wherein he perilhed himfelf, and mjde a
Davies.
To ExTiRP v. a. [extirjo, Latin.]

Which to exiirf, he laid him privily

My days arc extinO.

titles

Hooker,

final ejr/;»g»//3'«e»r of his houfe and honour.

The royal family is all extinB,
And (he who reigns beftowa her crown on me. DryJ.
The nobility aie never likely to be extinll, bccaufe the greateft part of their

may not

Termination of a family or fucceflion.

3.

Their purple vengeance bath'd in gore retires.

my grief in love.

ExTE'RN./7i//. [e*/^r«(/, Latin.]
1. External ; outward ; vifible.

Divine laws of Chriitian church polity
be altered by exttnguijhmenr.

Her weapons blunted, and exiinll her fires.
Pope.
2. At a llop ; without progreffive fucceflion.

Not ufed.

to dertroy.

Abolition ; nullification.

2.

Extinguifhed ; quenched; put out.
They are exiinli, quenched as tow.
Ifaiab.

1.

heirs general.

[exeermi/ia, l.atin.]

By giving love, your forrow and my grief
Were both exirrmin'd. Sbatejfeare't Aiyonliie it.

2. Without itfclf ;

Bacon.

The immediate caufe of death is the refolution or
extirtguijhment of the fpirits. Macon's Natural Hifi.

Exti'nct. adj. [«//«!?;«, Latin.]

thing is deftroycd.

y* Exte'r.mine. 1-. <7.

better exiinguijhment of the civil wars of France.

tion or fenfation.

viiiues, and makeih things infipid, and wiihout
any extimulation.
Bacon's Natural HiJIory.

/.

;

She would be glad to meet with fuch a Iot|

That fo (he might all future ill prevent.
Daviet.
He moved him 10 a war upon Flanders, for the

Latin.] Pungency ; power of exciting mo-

Alexander left Grecian colonies in the Indies;
but ibey were exterminated hy Sandrocothus,

ti.

When death's form appean, (he fearfth not
An utterquenching, or exiinguijhment

Extimula'tion. n.f. [from extimulatia,
The native fpirits admit great diverfity ; as, hot,
cold, aftive, dull, &c. whence proceed mod of the
virtues of bodies ; but the air intermixed is without

This difco%-ery alone is fuflficicnt,

Extinftion ; fuppreffion ; aft bf tjuenching ; deftruftion.

.

EXTI'MULATE.

Unlucky vices, on which the exterminating lot
happened to fall.
Decay 0/ Piety.

nate."]

1

tim el putrifyiiig juices out of the rocky earth.
Uerbam'i Pkyf. 'Theology.
To
-v. a. [exti,m,lo,h!kU\
To prick ; to incite by (limulation.
Cholcr is one excretion whereby nature cxdudcth

Latin.]
To root out; to tear upj to
drive away ; to aboliflt ; to deftroy.

Collier.

Exti'nguishment, n.f. [(tomextitiguijh.]

another, which, defcending into the bowels, extimulales and excites them unto expullion.
Bro\on.

Than to be butcher of an innocent child.

Extlrmlsa'tion.

blue, and lies agonizing within the focket.

Taylor.

They feemed made by an exfudation or extilla-

Is yet the cover of a fairer miod.

Dryden.

'Tis better to cover the vital flame with an extinguijher of honour, than let it confumc till it burns

being delUtute of the

To Exti'l. ^'. ti. [ex vcA Jiillo, Latin.]
To drop or diftil from.
Extilla'tion. ». /. [from ex va^ ftillo,
Latin.]
The aft of falling in drops.

Which, howfoever rude exteriorly.

To

as

wicked men and good.

Bny/t.
Father, blacker, and merrier, are words which,
together with the thing they denominate, imply
alfo fomething clfe feparjte

nothing excellent,

it

fanftity that

And what is faith, love, virtue unefTay'd

lileo'sopticlc glalfes.

And hoods the flames.

The exterior minitlry, externally and alone, hath
in

ward; external; not intrinfick.
Alone, without exterior help fuilaifl'd }
Mlliin.
Seraphick and common lovers behold exterior
beauties, as children and aftronomera confider Ga-

More's Div. Dialogs

Of it a broad extinguijher he makest

wardly.

Out-

Lat.]

StUlingftet.

Exte'knallv. ad-v- [irom external.] Out-

Harvey.

nefs of the parts.

ftroyed.

Exti'nguisher. n.f. [from extittgtiijh.'] A

commits the external aft of

theft.

EXTE'RIOR. adj.

to obfcurel

He that commits only the external aft of idolatry
as guilty as he that

is

;

Bethink thee on her virtues that furmount.

Her nat'ral graces that exrlnguijh art.
Shakeff..
Exti'nguishable. adj. [(rom e.xtinguijh.]
That may be quenched, fuppreffed, orde-

view or outward perception any

foul.

of the raufcular flefh of the whole body.

To cloud

3.

ff'oojtvarj.

particular nature.
Adam was then no lefs glorious in hi? externals :
he had a beautiful body as well as an immortal

When fir is to be judged, the kindeft enquiry is

A

My

fame of chaftity, by which the (kies
1 reacht before, by thee exiinguijh'diies. Denbam.

Having the outward appearance ; having

z.

Hayward.

his father.

to

pieces.

than they are; contrary to aggravation;

third fort ormarafmus is an extrniuilion of the
body, caufcd through an immoderate heat and dry-

Tliey exiinguijh the love of the people to the
young king, by remembering fome imperfeftions of

Shells being expofed loofe

Bacon.

ExTFNUA'TloN. n.f. [from exte>tua/c,]
1. The aft of reprefenting things lets ill

3.

EXT

we conceive God to

bute to any other but fuch as

EXTO'L. -v. a. [extollo,

l,atin.]

When a rich m.ui fpc.ikctli, every man holdelh
Ills

t

jiigue ; and look,

what he faith they extol it to

the clouds.

Pope.

To

pniife; to magnify; to laud ; to celebrate.
Ex;olK\m that rideth upon the Heavens, Pfalms.

Ecetif, xiii.

Heav'ii and earth (hall hl^h extol
I'hy praifcs wuh th' innumerable found

Of

t^fTiymM, »n3 facrcJ fonft!, wbecewitli thy throne
Encompafi'd AiallrcloundilKeaver btc&'d. Milien.
t«i Ars'sia f^toi her happy coaft.
Hot cinnamon and fwfct amoiiltim hoaft. D>'yJc»praifer
lixTc'LLER. «./. tfrom fr?5/.]

I

now lee

a raagnlfiet; one that praifes to the lk;«.
Having
aJ/. [from exlort.']

Bone of my bone, ftefli of my flefh, myfelf
Before me woman is her name, of m.\n
Mi/ton't Paridife h'JI.
ExtraSed.
draw oat of any containing body or
4.

the quality of drawing hy violent means.
Ex ro'RsiVKLV. flif, [liomextor/!'vt.'\ In

cavity.
Thefe waters wtttextrifBcd, and laid upon the
furface of the ground. Burnet' tThrory nf the Eaitii.

To

an extoriive manner ; by violence.
fe EXTO'RT. v. a. [exUr<)iuo, extertu!,
Latin.]
1. To draw by force; to force away; to
wreft ; to wring from one.

In

Shtke.

Bacon.

remarkably.
tions, wherein

•He quotes

compound;

the aft of drawing out the

! chufe fome few either for ike-eMraardJtuiriiieft
of theit guilt, or the frequency oftheir practice.
Cfjj. tf the Temgue.
\txtraordintiadj.

Hake-U'iJ/.

Skak.

It would not defray the charge and labour ot the
cKlraBioK, and muft needs be all irretrievably loft.

Oppieirion and cxtott'.on did maintain the greatnefs, and opprcllion and txtorlion did extinguilh the
Oavin on Irtland.
greiuiefs ol that houfe.

«. Force by which any thing

is

Becaufe the lords had power to impofc this charge,'
the freeholders were glad to give i great part ol theii]
lands to hoU the reft free from that exlcrfhn, Dav'mfucceeding king's juft recovery of rights from
nnjuft ufuruations and (xtoriiofitt liiall never be prc-i
Kmg'Charlct',
judiccd byany aftof mine.

A

'Exto'rtionhr. »./. \iton\ extortiDtt.~\ One|
who priiftifes extortion one who grow^
;

rich by violence and rapacity.
There will be always murderers, adulterers, rxlor'

i

and other rabble.

Camden.

The covetous eitlvrliiter is iovolwd in the fame
Dteaycf Fifty.
fcntooce..

Vo EXTRA'CT. V, a. [e.vtt^i'a, txtruclum,
Latin.]

To draw out of fomething.

ther, we call fTtrirffi;^. Bacon's Phyjic.il Remains.
f hit of the afhes of all plants they rxtrafi a fait
which they ufc in medicines. Bacon's l^alural HfJI,
The metallick or mineral matter is fo ditfufcd
amongit the craffer matter, that it would never be

H'a>dv:aid,

are

fcent.
One whofc exlra&ion 's from an ancient line,
Gives hope again thrit well-born mcnmay thine-;
The meanelt in your nature mild and good|
ffuJUri
The noble rcil fecurcd in your blootl.
A family of an ancient txiraHion, tranfpprted
Clarendon.
witti the Conqueror out of Normandy.

They
fbilifsi

thod ; not ordinary.

j

Extra'ctor. «. /. [Latin.]

The perform

or inftrument by which any thing
t rafted.

is

ex'.

Ex RADl'cTIONARV. adj. [exirtt anidiA'oi
Latin.] Not conftfting fn words but reali1

Evils muft be judged inevitablr, if tkere be no
apparentordinary way to avoid them ; becaufe where
council and advice bear rule of God's extraordinary

power, without extratrdtnary warrant, we cannot
" H'-oktr,
prefume.
Spain had no wars feve thofe which were grown
into an ordinary : now tlicy have coupled therewith
the cxiratrdi/tary of the Voltaline and the Fala-

logicians make fix ; but

we obfenrc men are com.
mnnly deceived by four thereof.
Brovn.
ExTRAjUDi'cTAt.. <!i/J.[extm snAjiiJUium,
Latin.] Out of the regtiUrcovrfe of legal

A declaratory or e>r>ra/jf.A'r/rfi/obfoU)tion is conjiyLiJfc's-Pare*gon.

ferred \v\Joro pa-ttitcntiali.

Extra juDi'ciALLv. c/f.

[from exiraju-

In a manner different from -tlic
ordinary courfe of legal procedure.
The conhrniaiion of .-^n election, though done by
dicinl.']

done fA /nt/ W/W<j.'/y, when oppolilion en-

fues thereupon.

Ext*ami'«sion.

Ayi'fft.

», ./.

[wrtw-and

mitto.

Bacon.

tinala.

See vi\i3.t.-extra9*-d}n>iry armies have been tranfmitted thither, aud what ordinary farces maiinaitied

ties.
QiextradiClionary. and teal fallacies, Ariftotic and

faid to be

Whom funny Borneo bears, are ftor'd with ftreams

1

,

a previous citation of all peifoiis concerned, may be

To draw by chemical operation.

Egregious, rum and licc'i i^MAOclraa,

Derivation from an original; lineage; de-

procedure.

The drawing one rtictal or mineral our of ano-

polfible to fcp.irate and exlrtH it.

Lat.] This word attd its derivatives
^nerally pronounced extrordinary
whereby the a is liquified into the 0.]
Different from common order and me-

riiis,

unjuftly

jDcn}.

.

EXTRAORDINARY,

iroodvj.ird's Natural Hi//cry.
.

taken away.

traitors,

tVitkiat's Math. Hagick,

markablenefs.

fueh like expertm:iiC*,ttre unknown to the ancient;.

©f gleaningall the land's wealth intoTjne.

Hafi.fl-

Extrao'rdinariness. ii.f. [from<'jr/»iBor^Uncommonncfs ; eminence ; rC"
iliimry.'\

'1'htdiftilla.tions of waters, extrafiions of oiky and.

That goodnefe

.

haps a cheaper ftrudure m'jht li.ive been as f.;rvice-

Bacon.

bility.

fo cxiraordiaarity copious and

able.

Although the charge oiextrafJlon iliould exceed'
the worth, at4eaft it will dil'cover ualure and poUi-

The aft or praftice of gaining by vjo-

he is

The temple of Solomon -ivas a type,. and therefore
was fo extraordinarily magnific«pti olherwife per-

principal fubftanceby chemical operation..

^lence and >rapacity,

me right; and I hope »ll his quota-

elaborate, are fo.

The aft of drawing one part out of ^

I.

Exto'rtiO^. n.f. [from extort.'\

;

The apoftle gives it a valuefuitable to its extrall,

Extra'ction. »./. \extm^io, Latin.]

One who

Uncommonly; particularly eminently ;

1.

branding it with the moll ignominious imputation'
South.
of foohfhneft.

EJric tlie ntarter was deprived by king Canute
Ciindeii's Remaim.
of ihegovcrnmentof Mcrcia.

a.

tUtker.
fought it at his hands.
Ill goveriunent it is gaodta«fe metv of «ae rank
<«rr<j«r///»<«7'/)i,
equally; for to countcn.^iu;e ibme
b to make them infoknt, andtlic relidil'voBtent.

j

'

praftifcsoppreflion or extortion.

••J,

lraordf»arity direSioa and counfcl, as pft as they

Bacon's Effiiys.

by colour of a lewd cuftom, they did afterwards ufe
the f.i!fte extortions by warrant. Davits on licUaA,

Into your own h-it^ds, cardinal, by extortion.

In a mnnner oat of the eommon method
and order.
In the affairs v.hich were net ijeterroinable one
way or other by the, §crip^urc, himfelf^gave an tfr-

Spend feme hoUTsevery dcyjn reading, and making
Swl/t.
•txtralls, if your memoiy be weak.
3..ExtraAion; defceiit. Not ufed.

To virham- they never give any peimy «f entertainment, but let them feed upon the countries, and
Upenfer.
exlort upon all men where tliey come.
Before llicy did exlort and opprefs the people only

/;'owi.t, church-robbers,

ntirj.]
I.

are like common diiijlied waters, lialiiy things.

To praftife opprcffion
Now difufed.

-v. ».

Exto'rter. ?;./. [from cxt!>rt.'\

EiTRAo'RDiKARiLY. tfi/y. [from extroQrdi-

abftradt; an epitome.
-1 will prcfent a few ^ouSj otjt of authors. 'C<:»k/,
Some books may be read by extract made of
them by others, btit only in the lefs important arguments, and the meaner hooks; elfe diftilled booksj

And with exioitai fawcr-aai borrow'd ftrcnglh.
That e«r*buraing lamps from ihence it brought.

and violence.

thing f)f;m«rt»*to them, ,tiey me ib?n.c«lled -trve
.Locke.
or f.illc.
GolA, when equally pure, and freed from extra.
colour,
coofiftin
.ilike
is
ibfoluiely
*«Kr nutter,
cnce, fpetiticgr.ivity, and all other rcfpefls. Ifoadv/.

tisatires, if the fuperfl«ou5 fpirit of wine be

z. 'I'he chief heads drawn from a book ; an

iThat to the houfe of heavenly gods it raught.

i;

When the mind refers any .of its ideas to any

To dip cur tongues in gall, to have nothing in our
moutJi but the extraR and exhalation of our inward
bitterntfi, is no great fenfuality. Gov. tfthe^ongue.

His tail w:is ftretch'd out inwoiid'rous length,

Iccke.

^uced.

the chief -partsf

ttanco, which chemills call the exirai} of the vegeiBoylc.
Ubies.

To gain by violence or opprtlTion.

f'o ExTo'^T.

;

diitiiledoff, it leaves at the bottom that thicker fub-

Waki.

!

Relation is not cgiUjincd in the real exiftenc*
of things, but fcmething txtrancoiu aad liiperin.

drawn from any thing.

my real concern for your welfare, exmri

m ih txMted gold

.Htfift.

The fubftance «xtra(fled

taahtA topogra-

belonging to any thing; foreim; of different Jubilance'} not intiinfick.

E'xTRACT. *./. [from the verb.,]
I.

the

Extra'neous. ffi//- ["/raww/, Latin.] Not

trtDcd out of 'that pamphlet a few notorious luK-

My earneft defires, not any doubts of your good-

Are my ihefts fiU'd up

'•Tis a philofophy that gives

To fee how this cat is reprtfentcd, I have exhoods.

Bt;yond the verge of the. material

phy ef the- extra)ttiind.ine ^accs. Gltr.fille' s. Scepfiu

tife.

Shaif^fore,
This tribute from us, wc were free.
Thal-g'.ory never Ihall his- wrath or might
Extort from me, to bow and fue for grace
With fuppliant knee, and deify his pow'r. MUlon.
l remember well (he impious oath,
Rotue.
ftitdly»t(of/i*' from my trembling youth.

2.

Latin.]

world.

To feleft and abftraft from a largcr-trca-

5.

'Till ihe injurious Roman did extort

this from me.

by reception, and not by exi'amijjion \ by receiving
the rays of the objctl unto 'the eye, and not by
Brovik,
•fending any out.
ExTRAMU noa'ne. odi. [extra tXiA muttdiis,

:

ExTo'Rslvt.

nefs, but

L»tin.] The a6l of emitting outwJirJst
oppoflte to !ittromiJfij>i.
Arirtolle, Alha«n, and others, hoM that fi^ht if

which the
3. To t»ke from fomething of
thing taken was a part.

A

»

EXT

EXT

'EXT

Dalies.

there.

common

con rfe of law.
2. Different from the
If they proceeded in a martial or any other ex»
traordina^-y wav, wiihout any form of law, his majcltylhould declare his jultrce and atfti5lion to an old
Clarendon.
faithful fcrvant.
3.

Eminent; remarkable; more than com-

mon
The houfe was built of fair and ftrong flone,
not -aftisdling fo much any extraordinary kind of
finencfs, as an honourable reprefenting of a firm
Sidney.
ftatelinefs.
The Indians wotlhippcd rivers, fourvtains, rocks,
orftreat ftones, and all things which feemed to have
Siillingjleet.
fomething extraordinary in tixeni.

ExT*Ao'iiDmAiiT,«</'v. [This word feems
»nly

the

E.xtra'vagajjtly. adv. [from

don't reran over their cabinet of medals, but
member to have met with any things in it

^'^f^"'

nchia, Latin ]

/Iddijor..

and fnNot comprehended with-

in any parilh.

Extraprovi'ncial. edj. [ex/r/i and /ropro^incia, Latin.] Not within the fame
vince ; not within the jurifdidlion of the

fame archbithop.
An exnafroviKrJal citation is not valid, ultra

is

f

RxTRA'vAaAWC!!. >

71.

Latin.]

DUJ.

li-

Forced out of the properly containing veflels.
The vifcuous matter, which lies like leather upon
the extravafated iriood of pleutetick pe.iplc, may be
dil&lvcd by a due degree of heat, Arbmbns: an AIL
Extra V AS a'tion. n f. [from extra'vaThe aft of forcing, or ftate of
J<ued.\
being forced out of the proper containing

have, troubled you too far witii this exiravS'
I flull make no delay U> recall myfelf in'9

have put their bodies into a
cotnb'^lbon, and by liirruig up their rage againll
others, havearaserf thsc berce humour againi^ them-

own

partiom,

Tiihrfon.

fcKej.

bombaft.
^ Unrtatoraltwmour;
own,
Some vcrfesof my

Maiimiatvand Almanzor,

crv vengeance upon me lor \X\iiT extrwOa^anrft
Drjdeti.
; vain and iirperRuous expcnce.
She wa> fo expeniive, that the income of three
dukes was not enoi^Ii to fupply her txi'mva^.tricc.
Arbulimt.

EXTRA'VAGANT.

[exna-jagojis,

adj.

Wandering oat of his bounds.
prinK>genaI fenfe, bat not

as is the

ft../,

ShaJtt/p

HarnlLt.

mLthotis
not a<k for what you would not grant

But wilhcs, madam, arc extravagant;

They aie not bounthd with tilings poflible;
1 may wirti more than 1 prefume ro tell,
Drydrr.
3. Not couip»ehendcd in any thing.
Twenty coiirtitiitions of pope John XXII. are

[This is an obfolete
from
Extraded.

called the txlra:'fganrs; for ihat they being writttn
h\ r.rt order or method, 'Vpganti/ extra corpus rcl.

if^iouum carf,nicm,

j^yiijje's

i'arer^n.

To let ihy tongue deleO thy bafeborn heart ? i'/mit/.
EXTRE'ME. ndj. [e.xtrem/ts, L.atin. This
word is foinctimes corri^pted by the fuperlativc termination, of-Zv-hich it is by no
means capable, as it has in itfelf the fuI.

He that will take away extreme heat by fettiflg
body in extremity of cold, fhall undoubtedly
remove the difeafe ; but together with it the difealed
Hooker.
too.
Sliould any one be cruel and unchari-tab'ic to that
extremity, yet this would not prove that propriety
Locke.
gave any authority.
tliC

The utmoft parts; the parts mod remote

.

from the middle.

greflt natirral

(icniufes,

Addim.

Kew ideas cmplqycd my fancy all night,
compofed a wild (xlravag^ut dream.

and

den, and the iArru»i;V/" or end of the feet never.
Dryden*s Dujrefnny.
The extremity of pain often creates a coldnels in
(enfation
iivery confident
;
butluch
xheextrfmities
a
wi;h an inHammatory diilenipcr. Arliuthncl on Diet..

; he points in the utmoft degree of ep-

;.

pofition, or at the utmoft diflance fronv-

Made up of all the wortt extremities

Remoteft parts; parts at the greateft diftancc.

They fent fleets out of the Red Sea to the ex.
/ifm/.'jVr

Utmoft.

rafter, who is Jef'^w: in this particular.

AddXfon.

ExtraVacanT. w. /. One who is confined Jn no general rule or definition.
We ^uy or laug'> at Ui<^ taluoui eMiai'iganlt.
iilanxitle
J

Farcwei, ungrateful and unkind 1 go,
Condemii'd by iliec, toihofcfad Ihades below:
I go ih' fxtvemtjl remedy to prove.
To drink oblivion, and loctmch my love. Dryden.
!

Vrefiing in the Btmeft degree.
Cafes 01 necelTity being fometime but urgent,
fometime extreme, the coiiflileration of puhlick utility
is urgcdc({u>vuknt to the caiier kind 01 ncccifiiv.
•

iintkcr.
;.

Rigorous ; Ihi^.

of >F.thiofia, and imported qu-intiiiei of

Ariulbiwl.

precious goods.

That on the fe.i 's exti emejl borders ftood. Addifin.
3. L.-irt; that beyond which there is nothing.

4

Denhum's Sofiyi

i)f youih and ttgc.
|.

Bacon.

Stood on \h' extremrjl verge of thefwlfl Vroolc,
Aiii:nenti:J3;, 1} with- tears.
Soakefp. Atycu like It.
Mifciie'. ofe and Kauli laft he view'd.

AJitifcin.

Waftcful ; prodigal ; vainly expenfive.
An exirai'agant man, who has rwthing elfe to
recommend him but a falfegenerofiry, is often more
beloved than a perfon of a much mure hnilhed cha-

Brown.

cach other.
He's amanofthat (Vrangc compofition,

derly people.

inhniiely n.ore

inclining to white, exwing leathers,

The extremities of the joints muft be feldnm hid-

The hairy ftol

beautiful than turn and polithing.

it is

which artyack.

thcmfelves at the lliercy of thofe hungry and difor-

There appears temething nobly wild and txitra-

its pjoj.er colour

Created ; of the highcft degree.
T!;c I.ord fhall fmite thee with a fever, an inflammation, and an «/c«(e burning. Dcul.xxv\it.7.z.
They thought it the ext<-emejl of evils to put

Somewhatf Jr;r«T/«g»«;,and wild. Milton's Par.h'Jl
in-

in

ccf^ting tha exirrtnities or lops of llie

perlative fignificatitm.]

z.

Irregul.tr; wild.
for a dance th»y feem'd

Swijj.

own vices.

iraiighr,

To his confine.

great ; in familiar language.

Extr e'm ITV. »./. [extremitas, Latin,]
I. The utmoft point; the higheft tiegree.

_

dijlraa.]
Shsm'ft thou not, knov/ing whence thoo art ex-

;

Whoever fees a (coundrel in a gown reeling home
at midnight, is apt to- be extremely comforted in his

Nor does there intervene heat to afford them any
colour to prcimid ilia; there is made an eMraverjiun
of the fulphur, or of any of the two oilier fuppofed
Boyle.
principles.

now in

2. Roving beyond juft limits or prefcribed

f.

_

Very much

[extra

parlicijile from exUatt ; as iijlraugkt

Sidney,

dilUndly.
2.

and 'verjlo,
Tlie aCl of throwing out; the
Latin.]
ftate of being thrown out.

Extrave'rsion.

At hisAvatniog

vttgaiit

In the utmoft degree-,.
She might he.ir, not far from her, an extremely
doleful voice; butfo fupprclfed with a kind of whilpering note, that iie could not cone «ve the wordi

by the fympathetick medicine, as to matter of fail,
is with circumrtanccs of good evidence afTerted.
Olanille's Scff>/h.

ufc.

4.

Locke,

ExTRE'MELy, adv.[Siomexlremd.'\

extravtnav blood

This is

The extrava^jat and erring fphricbie«

I d are

or, as they are called, «/(-f/«j, do ccitainly agree.

Extra'ucht. pnri.

Latin.]
tlie

termediate idea agrees with thofe ii is on both (id«»
immediately applied 10, then thole two remote ones,

Let out of the veins.
That th-re is a magnetick way of curing wounds,
by anointing the weapon; and tftat thr wound is

_

%.

The fyllogiftical form onl'^ (hews, that if the in-

1.

effeflrd in like man:>er

BacoTn

on either hand.

tin.]

Wa<Te

t.

Tlie true Pit>i«ftant religion is (ituated in the<
golden mean ; the enemies unto her are the extreme*-

ExTR/vvt'NATE. iidj. [extra 3.n^ 'vtna, La-

How many, by th« wild furj' and rx;ravaga>!ef of
th'jir

from each

other; extremity.

Aliment, too vifcuotm obftnifling the glands, and
by its acrimony corroding the fmall vellcb of the
lungs, after a rupture and exiravafatwH of blood,
Arbuthnot.
eafily producei an ulcer.

vehe-

mence.

Pofr's EJf.-iy on Homer.

without opporttion.

2. Points at the grcateft diltance

veffels.

Hiunmond.

i. ItrcguKTity; \rildnefs.
3. Outrage; violence; outrageous

ftill are pleas'd too little, or too much.
Pofn
They cannot bear that huir.an nature, which they
know to he imperfeft, lliould be raifed in an ex:remt,

tin ]

rtwrr :

the road again.

Who

gnnl.] Exccfa ; excursion beyond limits.
To ExTR a'vac AT E H. a. [extra and vagar,

mits.
i

From beds of raging ^>e to ftarve in ice
Their foft elhercal warmiii, and there to pine
Imn>oveable, inftx'd, and frozen round
Periods of time; thence hurried back to fire. Miltoft.
Avoid extre^tcSj and {Viun the faults of fuch

l^rorci exlraua-

Extra'vagantxess. »./.

[txlravagaits,

ErcuTfion or fally beyond prefcrib«d

r.

Are brought; and feel by turns the bitter change
Of fierce t-xtyeinesy extre»us by change more tierce J

profufely.

ftrangc things bevor.d common rules-; and he led
Ifriel through a fca, artd made a rock pour forih
'fayior*s Rale cflivirr^ holy.
^ater.

EstRa'vacancy. 5

Thiilicr by harpy footed furies hal'dy

waftefuUy;

Expenfively; luxuricufly;

3.

producei

and

txirar^gxi.t,

.

At certain revolutions, all the damn'd

Pope.

Aylife'i Ptrrrrgsn.

providence

PJalmt,

thing.

asralhly and extravagatilly contradidl his admirers.

Latin.] To wander out of limits.
Extrare'oulax. adj. [«-.'r./ and rtgula,
Extra'va-s^ated. adj. [extra znAtn/a, LaLatin.] Not comprehen'l'd within a rule
His

O

amifs,

n. /. [from the adjeftive.]
Utmoll point; higheft degree of any

1.

In an extravagant manner ; wildly.
Her pafTion was extravagantly new ;
But mine is much the madder of the two. Drydfi.
2. In an unreafonable degree.
Some are found to praife our author, and others

that contains man/ conditions manifeltly

inconvenient.

Extr e'm e

is

1

duas d!a:tai, above two days journey v nor is a citation valid

extra-va-

gnnt. ]

[extra

adj.

L'EJlr.mge.

all flies ar.d profellions.

1

extraordmciry rare.

If tliou I>e extreme to marlc what
lord, who (hall abide it ?

There are certain cxtravagaiitt among pmple of

•Wlf a colloquial barbarifm, ufed for
eafe of pronunciatioi ] Extraordinarily.

XxTRAPARo'cHiAl,.

•EXT

EXT

EXT

5.

Violence of paflion.
Wiih eijiiai mcafiire ffie did moderate
The Itroiig extremitiis o\ ilit-ir niiirajc.
If l-lhew

no colour for my extremity,

me be

Shakefpeure,

your4ablcfporl.

6.

Spen/er.
let

The utmoft violence, ligotir, or diltrefs.
Why fliould not the fame laws lake good efiefl
[leoplc, being prepared by the fword, and,SJienj.r on JiUaiid.
brought under a-j ixtiimiiy.

on that

Their hearts (he giietlcth.
Faiiy Quien.
And yields her to ixtnmily of time.
He promil'cd, if ihc) ihould be bcfegtd, to relieve

them

before they

lliould be

icducrd to ex-

Clarendon;
in-milY.
It ihould be never fo expofed to the ex'nmtiy of
war u» to iallintotholflbaibaiou* Iftud*. L'lareit.lon.
Iwillx

I wifii i>«ace, ir^t

T.

any t«rm« prefer.

7o b.'XTRlCATK.
To difembamfs

a. {extnco. Latin.]
to fet free any one in

-v.
:

EXU'BERANT. adj. [exuberam, Latin.]

agents, which reafon cannot vieWtxliiculi itfclf out

^"*'-

AdJiJon.

ofhervelTels.

tlxTRlCA'TtON. n.f. [from extricate.]

1 he

aft of difentiingling; difentanglement.

Crude fait has a tafte not pioperly acid, but fuch
appear,
as predominates in brine ; »nd it does not
fait
that this acid fpirit did as fuch pre-ciiftin the
whence it was obtained, fo that we may fuppofe it
to have been nude rather by tranfroutation
tricalion.

'

than tx.

*y''-

EXTRI'NSICAL. aJJ. [extrin/ecm Latin.]
External; outward; not intiniately belonging ; not intrinCck. It is commonly
written fo, but analogy requires exiriitJtcl-

A body cannot move, unlefs
txtrinfictl agent ; abfurJ it

it be

'
^
moved by rfome

is to think that a body,

Digh-

in it, can work upon itfelt.

fcy a qualic

Neither is the atom by any extrlufical impulfe
diverted from its natural courfe. RaycntheCreathn.
Outward objeits, that are cxtrinjjcalto the mind ;
and its own operations, proceeding from powers inwhen rcflefled
winfical, and proper to itfelf, which,
on by itfelf, become alfo obje£Js of its contempla-

Loch.

tion, are the original of all knowledge.

Extri'nsically. ad'v. [from exiri/ijical.]
From without.
from
If to fuppofe the foul a diftinft fubftance
the body, and extrinfually advenient, be an error,
GlanvUU.
almoft all the world hath been miftakcn.

Extri'nsick. adj. [extrittfeais, Latin.]
Outward external.
When they cannot (hake the main fort, they try
;

they can
fome prejudice againfthi* mort«/r;r/(<-X adherents.
Go%!r>iinent of ike Tongui.
Rxtrinfick modes are fuch as arife from fomething that is not in the fubjeit or fubftance itfelf;
but it is a manner of being which fome fubftances
attain, by realon of f.imething external or foreign
to the fubjea; as, this globe lies within two yards
IValii.

of the wall; this man is beloved or hated.

T» EXTRU'CT. v. a.
Latin. 3

To huild

;

[extnio,

extruaum,

to raife; to form into

a ftrufture.

ExTRu'cTOR.//./. {Kmraextrua.l Abuilder ; a fabricator ; a contriver.

To Extru'de. I". /I- \extmdo, Latin.] To
thruft off; to drive off; to pufh out

with

violence.
If in any part of the continent they found the
had \xinixlrudcd
(hells, they concluded that the fea
and driven off by the mud. WoJward' t Nat. tliji.
Extru'sion. »./. [extrujui, Latin.]

'

Extu'berakce.«./ [^jrand/wtfr, Lattn.J
Knobs, or parts protuberant ; parts that
rife from the reft of the body.
The gouge takes <ifi the irregularities or extu,

itiji.ctt that lie farthell from the axis of the work.

Mt-xon'i Mtrb. Exfr.

Exw'berance. «. /. [exuberalio, Latin.]
Overgrowth ; fuperfiuous flioots ;
abundance ; luxuriance.

ufcleft

,

ExulceRa'tion. n.f. [from exulceiatc]
The beginning cronon, which wears
1.
away the fubftance and forms an ulcer.

over-

z. Abounding in the utmoft degree.

Such immenfe power, fuch unfearchable wifdom,
and fuch exuberant goodnefs, as may jul\ly rayilh
us to an amazement, rather than a bare admiraBoyle's Seraphic Love.
tion.
A part of that exuberant devotion, with which
the whole affembly raited and animated one another,
catches a reader at the gicateft diftance of time.
Addifon's Freeholder.

Exu'berantlv.
Abundantly

;

ad'v.

[from exuberant.]

to a fuperfiuous degree.

A confiJerable quantity of the vegetable matter
lay at the

furface of the antediluvian earth,

and

IVood-ward.
rendered it exuberantly fruitful.
roExu'sERATE.'U. n. \exubero,'Li.\.\n.'\'Vo

abound in the higheft degree.
All the lovelinefs imparted to the creature is lent
to give us enlarged conceptions of that vaft con-:
fluence 'and immenfity that exuieratet in God.

it,

Boyle's Seraphick Love.

Exu'ccous. adj. [exfuccus,lM.n.'\ WithThis is to be efFeifted not only in the plant yet
growing, but in that which is brought exuccaus and
Broivn.
dry unto us.

Exuda'tion. n.f. [from fXK^o, Latin.]
I. The aft of emitting in fweat; the aft
of emitting moifture through the pores.
The tumour fometimes arifes by a general exu-

Exacerbation ; corrofion.
This exulceration of mind made Iiim apt to take
Hooker.

all occafions ot contradiction.

Exu'lceratory.

adj.

[from extilctrate.}

Having a tendency to caufe ulcers.
To EXULT, x-. «. [f.*-a//o, Latin.] To rejoice above meafure; to triumph; to be
in high exaltation of gladnefs.
The whole world did feem to exult that it had
occafion of pouring out gifts to fo blelTed a purpofe.
Hoolttr,

Who might be your mother,
-That you infult, exult, and rail, at once
Overthe wretched?

Shakefpeare't Asyoullke'st.

Tran-

Exu'ltance. «./. [from^Ar«/^J

fport; joy; triumph; gladnefs; exultation.
We have great caufe of exultance and joy, God't
fervice bei ng the moft pcrfeil freedom. Grv. Tongue.
Exult a'tion.«./. [exultath, latin.] joy

triumph

; rapturous delight.
Good efFefts may grow in each ef the people
towards other, in them all towards their paftor, and

in theirpaftor towards every of them; between whoa
there daily and interchangeably pafs, in the hearing

of God himfelf, and in the prefence of his h«ly
angels, fo many heavenly acclamations, exultatidu,
Hatter.
Devotion infpires Men with fentiments of religiout
gratitude, and fwells their hearts with inward tranAddifon's Freeholder,
fports of ioy and exultation.

To EXU^NDATE. V. n. \exundo, Lat. J To
overflow.

Exunda'tion.»./. [from w««&/^.] Overflow; abundance.

ff'ifeman's Surgery.

It is more worthy the Deity to attribute the.crea-

The matter iffuing oat by fweat from

tion of the world to the exumaiion and overflowing
Ray.
of histranfcendent and infinite goodnefs.

dation out of the cutis.
.

^uittcy.
z.

provocations, petitions.

out juice; dry.

any body.
The gum of trees, fhining and clear, is but a

Exu'perable. ai^'.

draining of the juice of the tree through the wood
and bark ; and Comilh diamonds, and rock rubies,
which are yet more refplendent than gums, are the

Exu'perance. n.f.

Bacon's Nat. Hijl.

fine exudations of (lone.

If it hath

more dew at noon than in the morn-

herb
ing, then it feemeth to be an exudation of the

^''"''

itfelf.

[extiperabilis ,

Latin.]

Conquerable; fuperable; vincible.
\exuperantia,

Lat.]

Overbalance ; greater proportion.

Rome hath lefs variation than London; for on
Weft fide of Rome are fcated France, Spain,

the

and Germany, which take off the exuferance, tni
Broium.
balance the vigour of the Eaftern parts.

Cuckowfpittle, or woodfere, that fp-mous frothy
dew, or exudation, or both, is found efpecially about
Brotvn.
the joints of lavender and rofemary.
_

To Exu'sciTATE. i;. a. [exf/t/dto, Latin.]
To ftir up to roufe.
T'oExu'date. 1 1». «. [e.xudo, Latin.] To Exu'sTioN. »./. [<?Ar;//?io, Latin.] The aft
of burning up ; confumption by fire.
fweat out; to iffuc out
To Exu'de.
i
EXV'ri^^. n.f. [Latin.] Caft (kins; caft
by fweat.
fhells; whatever is thrown off, or ftied
Some perforations in the part itfelf, through
which the humour included doth exudate, may be
by animals.
Brown's Vulg. Err.
obferved in luch as are frelh.
The juices of the flowers, are, firft, the expreffed
juice; fecondly, a volatile oil, wherein the fmell of
the plant prefides; thirdly, honey, exuding from
Arbutbnut.
all flowers, the bitter not excepted.

The To Ex u'd ATE.

aft of thrufting or driving out.
They fuppofe the channel of the fea formed, and
mountains and caverns, by a violent depreflion sf
fome part* of the earth, and an cxtru/wn and elcUurnel.
vauon of others.

;

Ormedicinalliquorcan alTuage. Mi/ton's Agonijles.

riant.
Another Flora thereof bolder hues,
Plays o'er the fields, and lliowers with fudden hand
Tbomfon's Spring.
Exuierarrl fprings.
His fimilies have been thought too exuberant, and
Pope's Preface to the Iliad.
full of circumftances.

polfcfs themfelves of the outworks, raife

it

Exafperate, exulceratt, and raife
Dire inflammation, which no cooling herb

abundant; fuperHuoufly plenteous; luxu-

We

Theicire reliefs to nature, as they give her »n
opportunity of r.v.'"V4f;>g herfelf from her ojjprcffpiings
Cons, and recovering (he feveral tones ind

Growing with fuperfiuous fhoots

I.

a ftate of perplexity ; to difentangle.
run in'o gKil difficulties aHout freecreatej
of.

Mangle my apprehenfive tendered parts,

combatant they confidently appropriate. Dfcay of Fi.
Though he expatiates on the fame thoughts in
difFercnt words, yet in his fimilies that exubeiavct is
Garth.
avoided.

The rooft aggrarated ibte.
The world is rim-.iing mjj after farce, the extrtmity o\ hii fottry X or rather the judgment that
Cltim.
is fallen upon dramieic writing. Dyi/. Pirf.

Thoughts, myformentors,arm'dwitli<leadlyftiiigi.

Men edcem the overflowing of gall the txuierMceoimX, and all the promifes of of the faithful

Before the Ui> rvd fmliifsoi war. JUr^ii. /«</. £m/.
'

EYE

E XU

E X U

"I

I',

a.

To force out, or

throw out, as by fweat.
To Exu'de.
J
To EXU'LCERATE. 'V. a. [e.xulcero, Lat.]
I .

To make fore with an ulcer ; to affeft
with a running or eating fore.
Cantharides, applied to any part of the body
touch the bladder and exulcerale it, if they (lay on
B-V-""-

long.

That the faliva hath a virtue of macerating bo
dies, .ippears by the eflSrtts in taking away warts,
Ibmelimes exkUeraling the jaws, and rotting the
Hay on ibe Creation.
tjjih.

The ftagnating ferum turning acrimonious, exulcerates and putrilies the bowels.

Arbutbntt on Diet.

1 . To afflift ; to corrodcj t« enrage.

;

.They appear to be only

the

rather than entire bodies of (ilhes.

(kin

or txuviee,

Wood-ward.

Ey. 7 May either come from 15 an ifland,
by melting the Saxon 5 into y,
Ea. J-

w'hich is ufually done; or from
the Saxon ea, which fignifies a water, river, ^c. or, lallly, from 1633, a field, by
Gibfen.
the fame kind of melting.

Ee. J

Ev'as. «./. [7"fl/>, French.] A young hawk
juft taken from the neft, not able to prey
Hanmer.
for itfelf.

An aiery of children, little eyefes, that cry out.
Sbakefptarr.

Ey'asmuskkt. n.f. A young unfledged
male hawk of the mulke't kind. Hanmer.
Here comes little Robin.— How now, my eyaf~
mufket ; what news with you ?

Sbakefp.

EYE. «. /. cbfolete plural tjnt, now ejet.

EYE

E T 'E

E Y EI
ing you to be fuch as you 'fliouH be, or hopm; ta
make you to be fuch as he wojild hiiVe ybu'te be. ^
•
iiaccn.
';

^a, Gothick; eaj, Saxon j tog, Dutch
XsTga
fe, Sicottilh, plur. eeiie.'\

I

I

'

I. Tlie organ of vilion ;

the medium of the

Englilh had driven the IriHiinfb'the open
countries, where they might have an ••)? arid bbL
fervation upou them, the frifh had bten esfily kept
Otiv'n'in Trriand.
in prder.
Spenfer has followed both Virgil and Theocritus
If the

fenfe of fight.
j.
Good iir John as you have enc tyc upon my folturn another into thcVcgifteror your own, that

lies,

I may pals with a reproot' oiFthe eafier. SLiirfpejit.
Vouehfafe, bright moon, and thefc thyllar^tolhiric,
Thofc clouds remorM, upon our watry tyits, SbakrJ,

Thu

'

;t

1

•

e. Sight ; ocular knowlegc.
VVhd hath bcwi;i:h..'d you, that you IhouUl not
obey the truth, before whofe yrj Jcfut Chrift ha'ih
been evidently fet forth?
GaL'ui. i.

Look; coDntenance.

J.

Til fay yon grey is not the morning's eyr,
'Tis but the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow, Sbahefp.
•••

^-

4.

:

-,

-

wxirlhy nobleman,

ixardifprovcd toyour r^rr,

Sh-i^ffp.

5. A pofture of direft oppofition,
f"

•

where

''^'r- ;t in thefame line with anotl^r.
itercept and guide the

'till

:

;

'

It hath,. in their

t

I

no bod^'a .ye but his.
eye,

^

•

1

.

>

,

i

j

was as

trom medicauug a vh'ar, aa 1 was, 1:1
the r>'c of the world, fruia havisig any preparauons
for one.
Xing Ci at/ej
Though he in all the people 'srjvriiecDi'd g^reat.
Yet greater he appcar'd in his retreat.
De.rb^m.

view; the place in which any
thing may be fccn.

may not by any law of min
Bt violated j we are, in making laws, to have Ihereuoto an efpccial ryt.
Hoolcr.
pofitive, being in force,

Ini^-

k.
ihe^ mai

the naii»w sr>y
much narrower, and conttaiik the' gate whtilf
iriiads
to life 10 the Ureightnefs of a oeedie't eye f
Smth.

A fmall catch inlQ which a hook gt)cs.

lie that hath a bountiful rye (hall be blerted. Prir..

Boyle.

None

be evil towards hit bioiher.

be put into either of thofc commifliin!, with an <yf of fayour to their peifons, to
give them counieiunce or reputation in the places
where ihey live.
BacM rWUn.
rtiould

n

Thefe are intrinfick dIBicullies jrili.-ij from the
test itliclf, aa the jincerUiniy Ibmetimet who are the
ferfons he fpeaks to,

or the opiniooa or prafliccs

which he has in his eye.

Jiccir.
Winds and hurricanes at laod, lempeftsand Itorms
at fea, have always been looted upon with as evil

an eye as earihiuakes.
iseveral

If'ciiii'arifi

Nat. IVJI.

performances have been jiiftly applauded
which have been VMitien with au eye

for iheir wii,

15. 'Bad of a plant.
_
Prune and cut im aU rotir vine movts to tlic wry
root, fare one nr two of the llouteft, lo'ie left with
three or four rye< of ynuri» wool.
Evetyi'j JCa/ea.
14. A fmall (hade of colour.

The ground indeed is f m-ny.

— With an

eyr of green in'r." Shate/frnre't tanprjl.
Red wtih ail rye of blue mukes a purple.
Hiyle.

15.

Power of perccptiofr.
The eyei of jour undcrftanding being enlightened.

A gift dolh blind^the eyeia\ the wife.

to (bis predominant humour of the town.

:
'

We were the moft obedient crcatuies in the world,
'
*""'^"'
.., the
•"^ ^°'
l.,lor.
'

Jv
to her'l'
bei;.j < wie,

'

'

''>'

..nd provided that the bridegroo'm
»e a man of (ound judgment.
Tttler.

p

...

}.:

"

mention with rcfped) the authors thoy
nd confeijuently luvc an rye to their

SAJiUfr.n.
7. Notice; obfcrvation ; vigilance ; watch.
Not falisfiej with our oaih, he appointed a band
ef horfcmen to have an eye that we Ihould not go
kej.iiid apcointed limits.
SUmy.

Lawmikers muft have an rye to the place where,
and to the men amongll ijhom.
Ihi^krr.
Hii Majefty hath tart bi»»>rt upon jroii, islind-

Voi.. I.

;

.

Drut.

Hfb. i.

Full many .i li-ly
I've eydvn\U bcft regard.

a^cufei

.

j

a drops of fweat from
Ray.

The b.iUs.Bf his broad eyes roll'd ip his head,
Andglai'J betwixt a jellow and a ted;
iHb lookM.a-lion with a gloomy ibrc,
.And o'e» his ryrlirotfi hung liK matted hair.

•'

Dryii.

E^ErO. aiij. rfro_ijv^r.:]'..ilajifing.eycs; ufed
in conipomion.
Scene leliquclof the true^anliqulty»
.TilOMgh dish;Mred, a wellyerf JJUUi
May happily diftover.
Spenfer^
I '11 not be made a foft and iuW-eyeJ fool.
To fhake the head, relent, and ligh, and yield

ToChrilfian iotercelfors.

Hitair/peaee.

Ey'fdrop. n.f. [eye and d>v/>.[

Tear.

V which never quitt but Wood,

I

iJing Imn, h^jc walli'd his knife

.}J

W.,„ f ..i.v y.Jropt.

Slai,-/p. Henry VT.

Ev'tci.ANCE. ff./. [eje and g/eince.j Quick
notice of the eye.
Hi- counteojnce was bold, and baflied not
Fur Guyon's looks; but fcornful ey^/jwr at him
Ihot.

t'aity £>iir,i>,

Ey'eolass.

n. /.

[f}e an<\ g/ei/f.]

"Specta-

clcs ; glafs to alTiit the fight.
Ha' you not fccn Camillo?
- Rut that's paft doubt you have; or yovir
Kffglafi
Ij thicker thin a euokoWs horn.
S/takr/p.
Hy comparing it with a good perfpcflivc of tour
'

'

irvi.

19.

To Eye. t-. a. [from the noun.] 'I o
watch; to keep in view; toobfe.-ve; to
look on ; 10 gaze on.
When they are \m\ in gtrrifon, tlie^M. 'i^ (>ett*r
hide their del.i:ili$ il.in. when they »n in lainp,
where they He eoniinually rteJ and wied ot jl)
""0.

•

Above ftand the ye^oCtV, to'kccpanj thing from

This Ajax has not fo r

DtMt.

licate, hii ryti Ikall not

^

running down upon the eyes;
'
the' forehead, or dult.
..

I

Thole parts, if they cohere to one another but
by reft only, may be lAuch more eafily dilfuciated,
and pui (::io motion by any cxiernal body, than they
could be, it they were by little hooks and ryej, or
other kind of faltenings entangled iu ona another.

The man that is tender among you, and very de-

Pope.

with a wofnl ballad
Nfa Je to tiU inilLef^' eybrex, Sb,ak. Asyou like it.
On tha fcvenih day Ke (hall fhave all his hair off
his head, his beard^i)iid his ^Ylb)<'•wt.
in-, xiv, 9.

I

U. Any fmall pcrforat!'.

12.

^ gilt bulfet's rcllecled pride

rSichingl.ilcje a furnace,

SiaJte/p.

i.-i

axiom to haie cut them ott.
Hnktr.
As in Scripture a number of laws, particular and

he apple

The lovef,

,

l>o. r.ot

'1

'

fuhjedt to no liglii' but tnitie ; 'iBvifible

?rch' over the eye.

tnc other way.

heaveu?

•

And the brain dances to the mantling bowl.

And be, in eye of every eaercifr.

to

-

Ei'EBRi SHT. a./. \aiipkr<7f!a, Latin.] A
plant, called by Milton Hnphrajy..
pv'tBRow. ;»,/, fiyr.andiow.] The hairy

.

Having an tyc to a number of Titej txA oeder:
the church of England, as marrving with the
ring; fuadry church-oifices, digniiie>, and callings,
for which they found nocummandmeni in the holy
Scripture, they thought b» tbe oocooly lltokeof an

^

the eye ; the' pupil.

Slot when

IWe fee colours like the eye <ft ^ peacock ''. feather,

.

-

Turns you fioii> found philolbphy afide,
Not when from pUic to [late )Our eyehalh roll.

There (lull he prai'lifc lilti and lotii'n.lnicnff,
Hear fweet difcourl'e, convene at;h noblemen;

Worthy bis youth and ooblencfs of birth.
Any thing formed like an eye.

to ihow ; ip

;

Not ofed.

Tocicry yv/itf.'^clU.
.,SluUJf..Temji!jl.
1 Iccl xny hair grow ftifTfc icy flyi'^iJtVj toll.

lar

9. Sight;

•

;

This is life only form could lV.ik.e.oiy foijl. Drydin.

That tliiuks heJiJth done weti in people's i'vj. SxKtL
i

')

'''

Since my becomings kill me wlfcn they do not
Eye vitW to you.
Sbcikrfp. Anioty .mj Clrofttia.

,oii

Ileoier.

'

To appcaf

bear an appcsiratice.

I

no great iHinity with the

form of the church ot Kame.
Like one of two contending'in a pri*r.

-

pv 'eb ALL. K. /. [eye antl kall.\

Siditrt.

.

•

P^.*

king. Pcfe'i IhtJce.

Forgive me,

they haw golxhc habit 01 doing wcil, has ma:i^
Lctle.

Si.e toldhcrbujbiadrthe del>giu:d to be btautifal
ill

Have a box when tuniichs ling,
-Anil fo:einoll iu the circle ,yc a

To EYE. 1-. It.

Opiaiim formed by obfcrvation.

8.

fiuJiirat.

And mttb the manners living as tliey life. .,

I

advantages.

by preffing our fya on either .ci)ipcri w

Drydcn.

O. AfjKft; regard.

'

This method of teic^ing children by a repeated

wind;

And 111 Its ey< more clofely tliey come back.

To finifti all the deaths they left beliiad.

L'K/lrexi^e,

.

\

More's '.InuJbte liguinjl Atue'fn.

Eye nature^ walks, Ihoot folly as it flies,

to.

en either fide, they nimbly tacic,

,

I

'-

bafililk'is that of the

tlie

Then gave it to his faithful fquire,
With leHbfis how t' obferve and eye her.

praffice, nndct the rye jnd dirediion of the tutor,

!':ice.
lis

1--.

-'

ftoryas

.

Mifdouht my conllancy; ^nd do not try;
But ftay, and ever keep itt? in your ryr.
•UrMen.
Alter this jealdttfy he kept a AuSCeye npori Jiitri/-

at fenl'e,

•

MikM's t^jrjiPfr l.nJI.

..

wolt.
concerning j^rioiity ot rifion, that a man becomes .'
hoarfe isd dumbv'if the, wialf have the. advantage
Broii'x.
hfit tojvf l»tm«'- ,;
,; ;,
It v>aSyjicedfuI for the hare perpetually to rye \vr
Sucii a

pmliiing enemy.

the charms which he employii fti.r curing Bxilomartis of her love; btit He. had alio oar poet's
T.ir-.t
Ceiris in his f)"-.
Drydrn't jSji.

1

.

•TlMtfiicred fnii't.

i

behold itfelf,
Kotg.
but &ycs oppofcd,
;
Silute :.!-.
.iheatrh other's lorm;
Siairfp.
Helcepthtmistheapplcofhis^f. D^nr.xxiii. to.
As Ion; loo'iiint; agaioft the tun or lire huricth
the fjr by diLtation ; (o curious pttiiting in fmall
volumes, and reading of fmall letxrc, do hurt tlie
djff by contraction.
Biico/t,
fiis awUi! prcfence did the crowd furprizc,
Nor durll the rafli fpc^ator meet )iij ^yfsi
£yf/ ihjtconter?M hin» horn for kingiy fwiy,
Sotieice, tliey riaihM intolerabh day.
OtyJtM.
But fure the /;<'of time bciioldsiio^aiae
So bled as thire ip all the rolls ot fjmi.
Poff.
rr,

.

in

Nor Joih the cyt irfclf,
"

I

•!

Hjd it been only coTelingto'yi^

id, lrcj,t>,J.

foot in length,
..t
could lej
I

Clamb'riiig the walls lo rye him. .^'t.|;f. Ccrhi.inui.
Ihd the cheek be rr;uJy with a bhilh,

Modeft ai morning, when the coldly eyet
The youihlul Phabuj.
SlikeJ. TrJ/ni axd Crtff.
Bold deed thou hall prefi ra'il, advent'ious Kve,
And peril great pruvofd, who thus hath dar'd,

made with a
-71^,1

-I

co.icave eyegUfi,

t

.with

my oun in*

-a'lrjh.1

Theliil-6-

,i;i(.u\ce

tlromeiii

Ey'm.a^;'.

AVwro*.
.,,..,

of hair that ctlLc* the. eyelid.

.,<

,

,

Ey's'less. adl. ^froin yr.j Wanting evc's;
Cghtlefs; deprived of fight.

S/uir/f. Tcm/,r/.

The kitchen Malkin rim
Her richrll iockram 'bout her reeky neck,

..

A'proclaim'd prize!

mod happy!

That eyelifs head of thine was tirff fr.im'd flcUi
To raite my fonunes.
Sbakrfp. A/r* I.rnr.
Promifr was, that I
Should Ifrael from Pluliltian yoke deliver:

.

Aik for ihii great deliverer now, and hnd him
EyrUft in G.ija, at tl^e null viihliavcs.
Pentheus durft deride

MIllM.

.

The chejrteJ pcop[e, ani ihc <yir/e/5 juide. AJil!f<.'\
4

'^

Mconiic't

EYE

E y E

MeonidtJ,

ToOt tft/r/i Mgtim.

Philips,

Fn^,

Ev'fLET.a.y; \aillet, French, a link eye.]
A hole through which light may enter;
any fmall perforation for a lace to go
through.
Slitting the back and 6ngen of a glnvr, I made
tyfUt holes to draw it dofe.
H'ifimaiCi Surgtyy,

Ey'elid. »./.

\eye

and

lid.\

The inem-

brane that fliuts over the eye.
Mark when (he fmiles with amiable cheer.

Tetcb me ihac flower; the herb I |]Kw'd thee once;
The juice of it on fleepiog tjtiidt laid.
Wilt make or man or woman madly doat
Upon the next live creature that it fees.
Sbalrfp,
The Turks have a black powder, made of .1 mineral called alcohol, which with s fine long pencil
they lay under their ryrliJi, which doih colour
black, whereby the white of the eye is fet oiT more
white.
Bacon's Natural Hifiarj.
At length, the crackling noife and dreadful blaze
CallM up fome wakinglover to the light;
And bng it was ere he the reft could raifc,
Wlwfe heavy eytUJi were yet lull of nighf. Dryden.

Eyese'rvant. «./. \fye •mA/ervant,']

vice performed only under infpeftion.

[e)e

and /5s/.]

Sight;

ny to fa(rts feen with hi: own eyes.

We

midc known unto you the power and coming
of our Lord Jcfus Chrift, and were eytviiintjfts ai
» P*t,
his majefty.

To meet him all his faints, who iileat ftood
Eye^vitfieff'es of bis

almighty afts.

With jubilee advanc'd.

Mihon'iParadife LoJI,

The curious, by laying together circumllancesr
atteftations, and charaders of thofe who are amccroed in them, either receive or reje£t what al (irft
but eyeviitnrffet could abfolutcly believe or dHbelicve.
Addifon on the Cbrijlian Religion.
iter, Latin.] The
court of julHccs itinerants ; and juftices in
eyre are thofe only, which Bradon in many

Eyre. »./. [eyre, French

;

fpeak, they were quickly freed from that eyrjure.
Ctarindati.

places Cd.\hJNjtkiarioi itinerantes.

Mordecai w'v 3n ryf/orf to Haman. L'tjlungc,
He's the belt piece of ma;>'s fle(h in the market
not an eyefsrt in his whole body.
Dryd.
Sch.

juftice-feat, otherwife called ;

Eyestring. ». /.

[eye

foreft

is

The eyrt

nothing but the

which is,
by ancient cuftom, be held
every three years by the juftices of the
foreft, journeying up and down to thai
or

fhould,

Corwel,

purpofo.

Nor Juno's bird, in htt eyrffolled Ui\n.
.

of the

alfo

with fpots like eyes.
So many goodly colours doth contain,

Sptrijii;

An

ocular evidence; one who gives tcftimo-

Dm

Col. iii,

». /.

SbaJceJpeare,

Evewi'tnfss, »./. [eye znd tuitttefs.]

Eyespo'tted. adj.\eyc v^Afput.] Maiketl

Servants obey in all things your mailers; not with
tyfervici, as men-pleafcrs, but in finglenel's of heart.

EV'eshot.

They would have won any woman's heart; and,
I warrant you, they could iKvcrgctanywi'/iof her.

As toon as the two lord:^ came thither tiiey covered,
to the trouble of the other ; but having prcfer.tly to

A

fervant that works only while watched.]
Eyese'rvice. »./. [eye vmA /er^ice.l Ser-

A wink.

as a hint, or token.

thai hear it i

H^nktr.
Fy, do(F this habit ; (hamc to your cftate,
And eytforc to our folemn feltival.
S hairfpeart.

in Engliih

Ray on the Creaiion.

ly'kwink. n.f,[eyea
Ey'kwink.
n. f, {eye and nxiink.]

offenfive to the light.
Hath the church of Chrift, from the firrt beginnine, by a fecret univerfal inftinft of Cod's good
fpirit, always tied itfelf to end neither fermon, nor
almoft .my fpeech of moment, which hath concerned matters of God, witliout fame fpecial words
of honour and glory to the Trinity, which we all
adore; and is the like conclulion of pfalms become
now, at length, an eye/ore^ or a galling to the ears

An hundred graces as in (hade to fit. Sfertfer'sSoxi.
On my tytlidi is thelhadow of death. j»i. xvi. i6.

ftronger and deeper

tjettcib, to (ear the more tough fort of aliments.

He blind; the wife, giv^sfyfyf^fi/ to the blind.
And moulds and (tamps anew the lover's mind. Oryd.
Ey'esore, n.f. [eye anA fore,'] Something

And tell me whereto can ye liken it
When on each eyeliJ (wcei\y do appear

fide

rooted, and more pointed, called canini,

Either my ryjight fails, or thou look'ft pale, Sbak.
Though fight be loft.
Life yet bath manyfolaces, enjoy'J
Where other fenfcs want not their delights.
At home in leifure and domeftick eafe.
Exempt from many a care and chance, to which
Eytfiobt cxfohi daily men abroad. MHtan'i Ag^n.
Jolcphus fe:s this down from his own eyjighi,
bemg himfelf a chief captain at the ficge ot Jopata,
where thcfc events happened.
Irilkim.

Cyclop, if any pitying thy dirgrjcc,

A(k who distigai 'd thus that tytifji face.

E Y R
The ne«t tooth on each

VfeihinJcs I Tee thee, now thou artbitow,
As one dead in the bottom of a tomb

The place
[from <>•, an egg.]
wliere birds of prey build their nefts and

Ev'rv.

anA Jiri'/g.] The
tendon by which

.»/./.

hatch.

glance ; view.

firing of the eye ; the

muft not think of fharing the booty before I am
free from danger, aud out of rytjhot from the other

the eye is moved,
I would have brpke mine eytjiring!; crackt them, but

Our eyrlt buildeth in thecedais top.

To look upon him.
To know whether the

And dallies with the wind, and (corns the fun. Shak.
The eagle and the lloilc.

i

Diyden.

yrindows.

iibahff. CyK:be!i/jf.
arc found or not,
fee that their gums be red and the eyfjirings ruddy.

have preferved many a ycung man from her
eytjhoi by this means.
Sftdator,
I

Ey'esight. »./. \1ye2sA fight.

"l

Sight of

the eye.

But I was bom fo high.

(lieep

On clifis and cedar-tops their eyries build. MUton,
Some lug^ard hawk, who had her eyry nigh.
Well pounc'd to filien, and well wing'd to fly.
Dryda:.

Mortimtr.

Ey'htooth.

and tooth.'] The
tooth on the upper jaw next on each fide

The Lord hath recompeofed me according to my
leannefs in his ty-;figbt.
z &im.

n. f.

[eye

to the grinders ; the fang.

F.

FA

confonant generally reckoned by
authors, and admitted by Scaliger,
^ among tlie femi-vowels, and ac^ cording to that opinion diftinfuifhed in the enumeration of the alphabet
y a name beginning with a vowel, which
yet has fo far the nature of a mute, that
it is eafily pronounced liefore a liquid in
the fame fyllable.
It ha.s in Englifh an
invariable found, formed by conipiedion
of the whole lips, and a forcible breath.
Its kindred letter is V, which, in the
IHandick alphabet, is only dillinguilhed

FAB

FAB
from

it

by a point in the body of

fomewhere in the north
of Britain, may fecm to give fome kind ot
countenance to thofe fables that make him to have
Palljijius coming to die

ilxe

part

letter.

Faba'ceus. adj. [falaceus, Latin.] Having
the nature of a bean.

Diil,

FA'BLE. n.f. [fable, French ;/«Wa, Lat.]
1.

A feigned ftory intended to enforce fome
moral precept.

A fiftion in general.
Triptolemus, fo fung the nine,
Strcw'd plenty from his cirt divine;
Bi»t, fpite of all ihofey^jA/i -makers,
He never iow 'd on Almaijn acres.

A vitious or foolifh fidion.

4.

The feries or contexture of events which

But refute profane and old vi'wtifailes.

I

7im. it,

conftitute a poem epick or dramatick.

Jotham's /.;//• of \Se trees is the olJeft exrant,
and as beauiilul as any made lincc. Add-j*Ki '"^/^c'i.
2.

Uoyd.

lived many years among the Scots.

3.

Jhyicn.

The moral is the (irft bufinefs of the poet : this
being formed, he contrives fm.h a defign ox fable as
may be moil fuitabie to the moral. Pr^den's Dufvff.
The (irft thing to be conlidered in an epick poem
the fable, which is perfedt or impcrfefl, acis
cording as the aftion, wliich it relates, is more or
Addifon' s SftHuttr.
iefs fo.

FA B
A lye; a vicious falfehood.

5.

This fenfe

is merely familiar.

1.

That Saturn's fons receix'd the three-fold reign
2.

hear the enemy. .Via*. Hen.Vl.

To Fa^bli . -v. a. To feign ; to tell falfcly.

We mean to win.
Or torn this heaven itlelf into the hell
Milton' sParaJife Lift.
Ladies of th' Hefperidcs, they feem'd
of
old, oifabi'd fincc
Fairer than feign'd
Of fairy damfcls met in forett wide.
Milt'.n's Paradife Left.
By kni jliB.

3.

Ea!l,

Tickcll.

A dealer In

among the Scottifh

lawyers
for when they fufpeft a paper to be forged,
they (ay it \% fahritatt,

[from

fabricate.']

conftruftion.

This fakrication of the human body is the immediate work of a vital principle, that formeth the
firtt rudiments of the homan nature.
Half,

Pa'brick

»./. [Jabrica, Latin.]

A building; an edifice.
There muft be an cxqiiiiitc care to place the co-

luortDs, fet in leveral ftories,

m

>li

Fur fuch are Ireafons.

That I of all ihcg.idj am lead in grace. Oryd llijd.
8. Confidei»ce;
bokinefs; freedom from
baflifulncfs or coniulion.

prrcifcly 00c over

But 'tis not fo.

body formed by the conjunflion of dif-

much Ids e»tol them

fitnilar parts.

bfook 10 fupptiia:e or beg.
You'll hnU the thing will not be done

Still will ye think it ftran<;e.

chalfciigit that

To

A

/

Cr<,xal.

Our bard's ufabidift, and deals in fidJion. Canick.

Fabulo'sity.

n. /. {fabuUjilas , l^tin.]
Fuincis of feigned ftories ; fabulous inTcntion.
Jntheir/iWi>//y they report, that (hey had ob-

9.

•'

pej

2.

fiction ;

in a

\ from fabiihui.]

In

There are many thinjs/uii,A«/7,. delivered,
»nd
«re nottobe»ttej>tedaj ttuihs. Brvwn'tyulg.Err.

I.

To carry a falfc appearance

1

;

"

V

Georgionc, the cotemjiorary of Titian^ exo^d
ill portraits or Facrp:iir:iif)g.
Drydai'i Difrfnov.

Fa'cet. H.f.
a

A

[facettci French.]

ima'U
cut into fcveral

luperficics

Honour th^t is gained and broken ujion another,
hath the quickcd rcfletaion, like diammids-ctit with
facets.

Bacon.

FACE'TIOUS, erdj. [facltiettx, French
cetia, Latin.]

Socrates,
reply,

iii*'orraed

of fome derogating fuccches

his; b.itk, made <t>\» Jaciiiuu
Let hilt) ieat me t«6 when 1 aan abfert.
.,,

GfjVtrntitcpt fij ihe ^oftrue.

FACE'TtousuY. eid^j. [froni/«ff//«»/.] J^jiily ; cheerfully ; wittily ; merrily.

Face'Tioosn/ss. J?, /,

't

[from faeeiious.']

V'C-be«tiJiil wft; tiitrth ; gaiety.
Tt,'c\Lz,Mdj, \_J<uiU, Vtcach; /Milts, Lat.l
'J

1.

tafy; not tliflicuk ; [KtknmMc or dttainable with little lu'iour.
,

,

Then

alfo thofe poets,

«liidi are

molt kUni, will be tmihfuciL-

now yuiued

mi pUirfant.

,

•

All lion on Education,
To confine the imagination is
facile a pen.
foimancc ai the Goteham'adefign ol hedging in this
cuckoo.
Granville.
By dividing it into parts fo dirtintfl, the order in
,

a

C«. xiii.

wliicli theyllicll lind

each difpofed, will render iha

work /iW/e mid Jfli|;hrful
Evelyn's KaUndar,
This may at lirll fcem perpleneil with many dif-

to play the

and afraid of the
•n"ny
Dryden.
Then thrice the mounted fquadrons ride around
The fire, and Arcile'i iiamc tmy lliiicc refwnd.

/"«-

of^d-of him iKhind

ib

To turn the face; to come iti front.

;

Gay; chearfiil; lively;

'

merry; witty. It ii ufcd both of perfoiTS and fcntiments.

ficultie*, yet

'Ihou needs muft learn to laugh, to lye.

'

who

a juintcr

The art of drawing portraits.

Toface, to forge, to feoff, to company. Habb. Tale.
Face about, man ; a

and fmnfir.]

Fackpa'iniinc. i.f.[/aceS[tiA fttfuiln^.']

hypocrite,

2.

ff.tctf

A drawer of portraits;
dimvi from the life.

interpofition ol

''>"•

Jjailev.

,

FAtrp^Ar'NTSR. df. /.

To fACE. 1'. w. [from the noun.]

imaxinatioD of fpeflrcs,

fabulous manner.

Nakedly; without the

^ir/i, v^v.

iJeingwith-

out a face.

other bodies.
Now we fee through » glafs daiklyj but ihen/ire

"i'le than one who thii.ks
the ap-^...lifabuiout and groundlcfi. Addift.n.

Fa'bulously. adv.

Mortimer's liiifiiandry,

Fa'celess; adj. [froray</(f.J

TilUtJin, Prefue.

Diftortion of the face.

have hij.Tcculcriyire ro^jrc.

Abbot' 1 Drfrlpt. of the tf'(,rU.

FA'Bt't.ous. adj. \fabttloJut, Latin.] Feigned ; full of fal.'.es, invented talcs,
'lied with the

firftfpitol earth that you dig out of the ditch^

lludibrau

Shame itfelll
Why do you make {\ich ftruf Si.ih/p. AfaeUib
Fac t /5 t,\c(. [All adverbial cxpreffiou
J
1. When both parties arc ptefent.
It 1$ ndt the manner of the K
-vrj'
any man to die, bttere ihai lie v
,;VJ

femtioni lor twenty thoufand years.

.'.

Addifon,

Where your old bank is hollow, fact it witli the

whit h you never ioft^ and you, fjys

viiiliUllc uiatiuns

Plulifi,

;

,

.

cannot fometimcs
Haeon.

yoo have rtolen,
L'lft^an^c.
'line is the map. (hat has the y5« to charge others

Fa'bui.ist. ;/.
[fabulijie, French.]
writer of fables.
Quining ^fop and the faiiilifti, he copies Boc-

\-

I

:

The cheefe inhabitants obfervc, and how

Pope.

The tiiiificatioii of Sulcure afaced witli marWe.

he to the Irrx,- have thecuiitidence to deny hat which

build ; to form ; to conftrufl.
Shew what lav.-s of life

'

To cover with an additional filperficies

You, l..yj the judge to the wolf, have thcjfjrr to

Prior.

y» Fa'brick. v. a, [from the noon. J

«^<-

man

With ignorance ainiyl/ir alone.

That ail the parts of this gtnt/^iirid change

h'jii'iii theirmanfions,

a

and the four
open gates, fating tlie difiere.iit quarttrs

angles.

A

:

;

ftjuare,

to invert with a covering.

Hh.thr;: Julim. C^'ftir.

Any fyftem or compages of matter; any

Hetton,

defcrilied

of the worlij.
,4,.

furface;

H<rwmany things are there which a man cannfti,
w iih an J face or comelinefs, fay or do himfell >
man can Iciruc alleged his own merits with mok-Uy,

Qu!tiheifoldftalionmrf primeval frime.

front!? with

Thty'mhinkiiij:, byhisyjrr,
To fallen in our thoughts that they have courage ;

a.nother, that (o the folid may anfwcr (o the folid,
sod (he vacuities to the vacuities, as wcU for beauty

» llretigth of ihe fatrick

The tempk is

Brn. J/nfan.

Ye ihall giv.: her unto Eleazar, and one ihall ilay
her before his fju.
l^umb. xix. 3.
Jove cannot tear ; then tell me to myface.

'
'

Addifon on Italy.

't.

At the tint Ihock, with blood and power liain'd.
Nor heav'n, nor fca, their formcryure letain'd
Fury and art produce efTefts fo Itrange,
They trouble nature, and het vifage change. If'jtlir.
His dialogue has (-^ much the face' of probabiKny,
that fome have millaken it for a mX conference.
Baker.
7. Preference; fight; ftate of confrontation.

"

•

the reverfe lias on it the circus Mjximus, an* a
view of the fide of the Palatine mountain thst faces

I

Keep (111! your htmex face, and mix again
With ihefe loft fpirits ? run all their mazes with em j

Prisr.

•
]

On one fide is the head of the eihptror Trijap

Appearance; refemblance; look.

6.

fi^ion ; a writer of feigned ftories.

;

To Hand oppofite to.

sli. 14.

AiidijtfH,

TaFA'BRICATE. t. a. [fabncor, Latb.]
1, To build; to conftrufl.
2. To forge; to devife falfely. This fenfe

/.

Hefac'd men d-jti'v that lie ftooj iVill.
3.

Milf.n.

dance.

i/iWK
Uudibrnf.

'</ it

Becaulc he walk'd -igainrt his will,

Helook'd,aiKll'aw'tl>ey<rrofthingsquitechang'd,
The brazen throat of war had ceas'd tg roar
.Ml now was turn'd to jollity and game,
feall and

Sivfi.

commonly

,

W« trcpaii'd thp^ale> and/ac

This would produce a n^Kfuct ol things in Euiu'pc.

!

w.

Exxk

and, at leaft, as ready toface

With plotiandprojeflsol ourown.

5. V ifible ftate of affairs.

Celebrated in

Hail, /t^a/ grotto! hail, Elyfian foil
Thou fairelV fpot of fair Britannia'* ifle

2.

was art hundred cubits.

Toluxury and r^ol,

The ad of building

with do-zuu.
Poft,

The breadth of ihe_/j<-c of tlie houfc, towards the

fables.

1.

And to be grave, exceeds all pow er otyirr.
The furface of any thing.

his" Tordlhip ;

them unJer a popllh pcrfecutton.
2. 'Lo oppote with impudence:

A mift wittered the wholcyt/cc of the ground. Gen,
4. The front or forepart of any thing.

Tltoii/ai/rj}.

Fabrica'tion.

field as

!

To laugh, were want of gcwdnefs and of grace ;

ufe.

retained

enemy iir tht! field of battle. .4ddr/bn an i^c.H-'ar.
They are as loth to f.!e the fires kii"ijljd i;: S'mith-

tlie

Who

To tell falfehoods; to lyc; a familiar

Dryi.

We

get intelligence of the forte of the enemy,
antfcaft about for a fufficient number of troops toyi're

call of the features; lix)k ;

Seii'd and ty'd down to judge, how wretched 1
can't be lileiit, and who wiH not lye

Prior.

Fa'bler. n. /. [fromy«^/i:.J

VWfacc

Kick'd but, we fet the htSfae on't we could.
Dryden'i Virg.

!

is

Countenanccj

Diydeit.

This tempcit, and deferve the nai«e ijf king.

air of the face.

Vain now the tales which fahlirtg poets tell.
That wav'riog conqucft ftill delires to rove
In Marlbro's camp the goddels knows to dwelt.

Fa'blso. adj. [from_/ai/r.]

=>ga'n-

To Face. -u. n.
1. To meet in front; to oppofe with confidence and firmnefs.

A-^di/ott's Spe^alar,

In ev:-r\ face 1 found a d;irt.

Of heav'n, of ocean, and deep hell beneath,
Old poets vitaimn fMing,
Pricr.

I

The vifage.

A man Hiall (ic fucirs, which, if you examine

To feign; to write not truth but fiftion.

Htfailes noi:

"

them p:\rt by p:rt, you (hall never find good; but
take them together, are not uncomely;
Bicom
From beauty Hill to beauty ranging.

To Fa'ble. v. n. [from the noun.

z.

'

Hail and farevi'eH they Ihouted thrice irtailT,
Thrice facing to the left, and thence th«y taA'i

'

The children of Ifracl faw the face of Mofcs, that
the llcin of Wjfcs'sfare ihonc.
£x(id. xxxiv. j j.

would look like a fable to report that this gentleman gives away a great ' -tune by fecret methods.
Addifon.
1 1

|.

F A C

F A C
FACE. H.f. [face, French, ftoxdfacies, Lat.]

it

many things may be fuggclled

mm^ facile luid commodious.

to

m^ke

Wilkin t,

2.

Eafily furmouiitable; eafily concjuerable.

3.

F,afy ofacccfs or convcrfc; not haughty

The facile gates of hell too flighily barr'u, Milton,

foldicr,

not fiijiercilious; not aufterc,

4^2

I mce

'

V

AG

F) ft-

meant Hie (hau!ll ht matitom, faetlf, i»xtki

1

llAting tUat folemn viL«-ol'^ reamer's,, pridr,

^

'

FACI'NOROUS.

'

I mc:nt c»cl> fofitll »irije there Oiouid meet.
Fit in that fouer bofom to reliJc. .- . Ben.yeitfoH.

Kaph.-el now, to Adfiip's^oiibtpro^s'ili
Bcnevolertt anJ/jfWf, thus I'eply'il'.
Millett.

4. Pliant ; flexible ; eafily pi;rftiaded to good
or bad ; duftile to a fault.
;
TooJacUe then, thou did'ik not much ga'infay

whom any afteOionate difcaurfe, or ferioua fcrmon,
or any notable accident, (hall put into a lit of rewhich yet ufually lalh no longer than till
fomeu'hat elfe comes ill tkcir way.
Cjlaniy.

ligion,

irhofc cffcifls which are wrought by the pcicuirioii
of the fenfc, and by tilings in fafi, are produced

To iiiai<e eafy ; to frte. from liifficulty ;
to clear from impediments.

likewifc in fome degree by ilie imagination : therefore if a man fee another eat four or acid things,

Choice of the
tile verfion

likelicft and beft prepared metal for
v\\\fjcUiiaie the work.
Bacon

which did little hurt; ..but they {liU lull ;nany

men in the attempt.

Qla-rKJon.

Though peffpeflivc cannot be called a certain rule
i>f pifture,

yet it

is a

tion.

great fuccour and relief to art,

andyrfrfAV^ff the meansof execution. Dryd.Ds'ifrcfi
What produceth a due quantity of'animal fpit^ts,
necefl'arily yif (/;'»ar« the animal and natural moArbutbnot on Pitt,
tions.
A war on the fide of Italy would caufe a great
divetfion of the French lorces, ani fiKilitatf iht
progrefs of our arm* in Spiiin.
^'*'^,'Jh

.^

ditncully.
Yet realbn faith,

Aftion; deed.
Unhappy man to break the pious laws
Of nature, pleading in his children's caufe :

3.

!

Howe'cr the doubtful_/u«f7 is undcrftood,
'Tji love of honour and hiscountry's good

The conful, not the lather, flicds the blood. Dryden.

fror.i this to

Sidney,
a more

of profit
commudious bufmeft by any motives
"

A war upon the Turk's is more worthy than upon

?. Rcadinefs in performing; dexterity.
They who h.i%e (luJicd have not only learned
many excellent things, hut alio have acquired a great
by reading good .lu-

Drydtn^i Dirfi efncy.

thors.

yhv facility which we get ol" doinj things, by a
cuiloin at doing, malcc^ them often pals iiiMs without
;

«ornOti«..--

,

,

.;

,

•.^

•

lead a man. he (h?ll never be without them. BaCftr.
'Tis a great error to^tiksJ'aeiJity for good-nature,
tf ndenicfs without d'faetioD, h no belter than a

not in uft:.
Pi'vtliee,

fellow,

remember

[corrupted hy Siah-

Jfeare from faciiiirout ; facinus, faciiioris,
Wicked; facinorous.
Latin.]
,

"

'Tu

ftrai-fe,

Ms very ftiangc, that is -the brief

atidlhc tedioutof it ; and lie's ol a \niSt
fpiiil ihatwillnotacluiowledge it.

Fa'c inc. «. /.

[fr<'»m To fau, ]

An orna-

pat on
of any thing by way of de-

merital covering ; 'tliat wliich

the otitlide

facini lioui

Hitairjpraie,

is

coration.
Tliefe oHlcn

nd Jirnities were but the fafirlgi

teatnclV.
udfrmgctutbisi^teat

U'ction.

Dryden,
A Toya\faBor for their kingdoms lay.
The multiplicator
[In arithmetick.]

Fa'ctious. adj. [fafiiiitx, French.]
I. Given to faction; loud and violent in a
publickly diffentious ; addidled to
ibrin parties andfaife publick difturbances.
He is a traitor J let him to the Tower,
party

;

And'cropaway AiXfiB'.eut pate of his.
z.

and multiplicand.

publick

A houfe or diflritfi inhabited by traders

1.

in a diftant coiintry.
2. The traders embodied in one place.
Facto'tum. n. f. {f<tc totum, Latin.
is lafed

It

A

:

manner of making any thing.
Fa'culty. n.f. [fitaiiti, Yicach ifacullas,
Latin.]

Si.iiijf.

Proceeding from
tending to publick difcord.
Grey-headed men and grave, with warriors mix'd,

likevvife in burlefque French.]

fervant employed alike in all kinds of buas Hcriih in the Stratngom
finefs
FA'CTUKE.n. f. [French.] 1 he aft or

Shakeff,

diffenfions;

Herrit,

Fa'ctory. n.J. [fvoTttfador.']

ajjakej^, Coriolanus,

neral,

UcfaCliotn for redrefs of alliliefe griefs-

Willv diftculiy and rcl;:dtancy;but otfers himfclf to
the vililsol a friend with_/j, lAVy, and all the mect.S'^uih.
ingreadinels ot appetite and deliic.
ai/J.

my name is Me-

nenius; 3.V>L\-jiJa^loM*ryai i\\t, party of your ge-

defcenfion; affability.

Facini'rious.

-

Clarendon.

'Fa'ctionary. n, f, \fa8hnaire, French.}
One of a faftion ; a party man. A word

'

.

2.

They remained at Newbery ia %xtiifa3ion among
themfclvcs.

'

'

Afac.

Tumult; difcord; diffenfion.

2.

L'Ffrjftgf.
more pdidonable folly.
k, Kafinefs of accefs ; complaifance ; con-

He oper.!. and yields himfcif to the m.in of Uifinefs

church, and that, therefore, they oti^ht to be taken
Scath.
away.
Foic'd into exile from his rightful throne.
his
own
He made ail countries where he came
;
And viewing monarchs fccret arts of I'way,

^^'^g Chariet.

dnyfa^io/rs,

South.
could ever hear alledged, by

thofe who feparate from us ate (lift' and obllinate,
and will not fubmit to the rules .ind orders of ouc

By the weight of rcafon I fhould counterpoifc the
over'o.tlaiicing of

I

the chief_/aif?t<rj for a general intromilTion of all forts,
fedts, and perfua(tons> into our communion, is, that

Hhakef^eare* x timon.

.

•'rWandihcn; but if importunity or idle lefpeOs

"'

(ly and ttaomoa^fadors for the old republican caufe.

By one ol Simon's fa!} ion murders were conv

'

'

Cbietfaelors for the gods. Shakeff. Ant, and C'eof,
We agreed that 1 lliouldfend up an EngiilhyjiSur,
that whatfoever the illand could yield (hould be deRaleigh's Apology,
livered at a reafonable rate.
The Scots had good intelligence, having foma
faBors doubtlefs at this mart, albeit they did aot
HayivarJ,
openly trade.
Vile arts and relllcfs ehdeavourj are ufed by fome

YtcacXi; faclio,

inilted.

li'-ck'.

VttiotU duftility ; eafineft to' be perfuadedtrfjood or bad ; itsidy cotnpliance.
• 'J^iUitilv n Woffe tli.irv bribery; for bnbts tome

g-.

You all three.
The fenators alone of this great world,

All the reafon that

And cherifliy^i?7/o«.

»ny other <»«ntiles, both in point of religion and in
foint of honour ; thoughy.ir/V/y and hope of fucccfs
Bacu/t,
.might invite fome other cliocc.
_

j'ttility ai proliticg tliemfelvcs

Or lowly_/<i<57o'- for another's gain. Shake, RicL, III.
Picrcy is but myfaHor^ good my lord,
T' engrofs up glorious deeds on my behalf. Siakeff,

The queen is v.ilued thirty thoufand ftrosj;

Raleigh.

ftuiliiy,

Not as protestor, (leward, fubltitute.

If Oi^ hath lime to breathe, be well alfur'd
Shakeff.
Htrfaliion will be full as ftrong as ours.
He has been known to commit outrages.

or

•

And kingly government of this your land;

Latin.]
1. A party in a ftate.

reafoji (hould have ability

Piety could not be diverted

'

Smalridgi

attend it.

all

all

Latin.]
An agent for anether; one who tranfaAs
Commonly a fubbufinefs for another.
ftitute in mercantile affairs.
Take on )0u the chaise

1.

Adjifr.n ui the H'ar,

FA'CTION.//./. [faaion,

As let themcome or go witli nvtn/aci/Lji.

!

do not fee any colour

feparable from war, in reality and yiiS? never fail to
'

by one

FA'CTOR.w, /. [faaeur, I Kadi; factori.

Ma:rf Id fins, though in fpeculation they may be

from

To hold thefc wordly things in fuch proportion.
4

1

foap,

making and 'diflilling of

other
other
ftones being exalted to Ihivt degree that art in vain
endeavour* to counterfeit it; the facliiioies ftonei
of chymills, in imitation, being eaiily detefled by
Aaji on the Creation,
an ordinary htpidift.

^

for fi'cii aiconclulion.

'•••'

Eafinefs to be performed ; freedotfl

I .

,.

If this were true \nfaCi,

FAcr'tiTY. »./. [ fail ijti, French ifacU//ds,
Latin.]

1,

:

..

is

n.iturc.
In the

Hardnefi wherein fome ftones exceed
and among them the adamant,

Reality; not fuppoCtion ; not fpecula-

2.

made by

by art, in oppofition to what

bodies,

whicli fet the teeth on edge, that object tamteth
Bacon's Natural llijiory.
theim.igination.
M.uter of fall breaks out and blazes with too
Suuth*^ Scrmrni.
great an evidence to be denied.

They renewed their afTault two or three days togetlicr, and planted cTkiinon Xo Jiici/iiate tht'ir ^Ciagc,

Bacr-n,

notdonc.

\fnciliter, Frencll.]

to

degree of fin: the (alt, the water, and the oil orgreafe,
vyhcreof that faHitious concrete is made up, being
boiled up together, or eafily brought to incorporate.
Boyle,

In matter of/ifl they fay there is fome credit to
be given to the tellimo ;y of man ; but not in matter
of opinion and judgment : we fee tlie contrary both
acknowledged and univcrfallypraclifed all throughout
Uaolar.
the world.
As men are not to niiftake the caufes of thefe
operations, fo much lefs are ibcy to miltakc iVafad
or etfcif, and ralhly to take that for done which is

Miititt.

Soni* men arc of that facilt temper, that they
are wrought upon by every objeft they convcrfe with,

To Faci'i.itate. r. a.

Inpublick diifcnfion; violent
clamoroufnefs for a party.
Fa'ctitious. adj. {^faititiui, Latin,] Made

thing not barely fuppofed or fufpeftcd,
but really done.

N«y diil'ft permit, approve, and fair dilmiis. Alliien.
Since Adam, ai-.d his_/jc//<r coiifori Eve.
Paradife, deceivM by me.

Fa'ctiouine'ss. «./. [from/d<5/a»/.]
clination

deteftably bad.

;

FACi'Nt-RousNfss. »./. l^Tom fachierousJ]
Wickednefs in a high degree.
Fact, n.f, Xfaiiitm, LM\n,]
1. A thing done ; an efTccl produced; fome-

,

lioft

[faciMwa, Lafin.]

aJf.

Wicked ; atrocious

FA C

O

1.

ability;
'J he power of doing art)' thing ;
whether corporal or iniellttftual.

liififii^ui oppofition.

Tlicse is no kind oi faculty or power in man, or
any creature, which can rightly j.erform the -fuuctioiis allotted to it without perpetual aid and concurrence of that fupreme caufe of all things. Uoohr^

united in the Jame delign ?

Dc«bam„
Rather than heads, ihcir_/"ac.v//v abides.
Renfon in man fupplies the dcfcrt of oi xtfacul*
whai wc
interior
to
beads,
and
are
tics wherein we
cannot compafs by force we bring about by (Iratagem.

Afl'cmble i and harangues are heard; but foon

Miltzn' s Paradife LoJ!
t'a^int! tumults overbore the freedontand hoA.7«g Charles.
nour of the two Ii.iiifcs.
Why thttc faSli'US quarrels, controvcrlics, and
battles aniopgll ihemfclves, when they were all

Fa' .Tiou.'iLY. aJv.

[fromyrti!7/c«r.]

Orators may giieve ;

Vrydet.

^

In a

rtjannet criminally diflcntious or tunMiI-

for in tlicir (ides.

2

L'lijlrpngc.

Powers of the mind, imagination, reafon*

tuous.

memory.

1 inlendrd not only to oblige my friends, but mine
enemies alfu ; exceeding even the delircs of thofe that
King Cbarks.
fit.ttfailit'i'Jiy dlCionleuUd.

Of nature, her the inferior in the mind
And inward /«f»Ai«, winch moil excel.

I

underlland in the prime end
;

Milton.

la

FAD
Inthe oriinary way of Tpeakinj, the undcriland.
jnf and will are lvio/aruit,et of the mind.
tacir.
Neither did our Saviour think

it

Narcnius* change to the vain virgin (hows,
Who trulls to beauty, trulls tht/adt»g rofe.

To Fade. -v. a.

to ceafe; to be no longer

produced.
Gay.

Help, Lord, for the godly man ceafeth ; for tlve
trom among the children ol men.

faithful fail

Pf. lii. I..

Whether fuch virtue fpent of old nave fail'
More angels to create.
Milton.

withered;
Sbakefpeare,

To ceafe

3.

to perilh ; to be loft.

;

His palms, tho' underweights thcydidnot ftand.
Still thriv'd; no Winter could his laurels_/ii/i?. Dryd

And this empyreal fub(bncecannot/.j-'/.

by which the body is notiriflied, or ano-

ReiHefs anxiety, forlorn defpair.
And all x\\i faded family of care. Gartb't D\fpenf.

For Titan, by the mighty lol's dilmoy'd.
Among th' heavens th' immortal faft difplay'd,

that

by which life

pr.»ferved,

is

and the

ordinary funftions of the body performed ; and the animal faculty is what condufts the operations of the mind. ^incj.
5. A knack; habitual excellence ; dexterity.

To Fadge. xi. n. [jepejan, Saxon fngen,
German.]
to fit ; to have one part con1. To fuit

had, of reconciliBg men to him.
C/arerrdm.
Our author found out monarchial abfolute power
in that text, he had an exceeding good faculty lo find
it himfclf where he could not Ihew it others.
Licke.
He had an excellent faculty in preaching if he
were not too refined.
Szi'if,

6. Quality perfonal; difpofuion or habit of

good or ill.
I

<

am traduc'd by tongues which neither know

Myfaculiiei or perfon, yet will he
Tlie chronicles of my doing.

Shaktff. HciiryVlll,

And I, poor monller, fond as much on him
And (he, milVakcn, feems to doat on me. Shaktff.
;

2.

Mltton.

Will plead like angels.

almftll ever/

A-

Hooker.

or toy with the lingers.] To trifle ;
to toy ; to play.
A low word.
To Fa D E. 1/. H, [fade, French, infipid, languid.]
1. To tend from greater to lefs vigour ; to

..

'

hi te to b!.ick, and the co-

-'ggtadualy,

f^'ocdviard.

To witlier, as a vcgct.»b)e.
Ve (lull be as an oak whofe \zi( fajtib, and as a
garden that hath no water.
If^ i. jd,

4. To die away gradually; tovanifli; to be
worn out.

Where either through th« temper of the body, or
fame other default, the memory 1$ very weak, ideas
in the mind '\\iKV.\yfjile.
Locte
'1 he ftarj \hi.\/,\dr
away, the fun himfelf
Crow dim with ajc, and nature fink m years. AJ.lif.
be naturally not durable; to be tran5.

To

fient ; eafily to lofe vigour or beauty.
The glorimis beautv on llic head.of the fat valley

y. jxy\x\. 4.

To mifs

;

'«'«

hac^:

^

*
All thefe puifTant legions, whofe exile
Hath emptied heav'n, Ihall fail to rc-afcend. MilioH.

This jell was firll of th' oilier houfe's making,
And, live times tiy'd,has ncvcr/a/7'J of taking.
D.yden.

A perfuafion that we (hall mercomc any diffimlncs
that we meet with in the fcicnces, fcldoin /.;,> to
carry us through them.

Locke.

lie does not remember whether every grain
up or not; but he thinks that very iev. failed.

came

Mr.rtimer'i HuJhaitJry.

To mifs

8.

[fagod, Wellh and Armorick ; fagot, French.]

In difficulties of (late, the true reafon oi failing
proceeds from tailings in the adminiHration.

L'Ef, an/re.

Men who liave been buficd in the purlmtot ihc

peifon., according ai they ptonouoccd thefe confecraicd A ii jl)lr! or r.ot.
I^k'aits t,n the Mivd.

philofopher's (lone, h.\yej'aifd mlheU iibp\.AdJiJ.

Or nature jfij/W in me, and left Tome part

The B'ack I'rince filled a diti h \\\\\i fagcts as
fafcines.

3.

Kndeavour 10

To

i'A f'ge!ed his notions as they fell.

To FAIL. v.

ft.

[failler,

Wellh. Pe7.ro».\
To be deficient ;
plenty

French ; faeln.

to ceafe from former

Miliot^

r.o<rs commaiijs, to repent
it,

''i™-

and to hope lor panlou of
IVake.

ToYkW.. v. a.
I.

Todefert; not to continue to affift or
fiiupiy; to difappoint..
i'he (hip wai now left alone, as proud lords
be
when foriunc_/Tj(//th«m-

Dryd,

to fall Diort ; not to be equal to
demand or ufc.
The waters y^jjV from the fea, and the flood dccaycih and drieth up.
Joi, xiv. 11.
VVIicielore ihouM notftrength and might
There /iijV where yitiM/ailt, or weakell prove
Where boidcfl, though ioBghtuaeantiuetiiit i Ailli.
;

fulfill

as oltcn as- you fail ol

A foldier numbered in the raufter-roU,

but not really exiiling.
•reFA'cijT. 'v.a. [from the noun.]
tie. up ; to bundle together.
He was too warm on picking work to dwell,

!.

Nut^ prool ti.ough fuch object to full jin.

with

Addif'.n.

And it they rhym'd and rattl'd, all was well.

To be deficient in duty.

9.

it

to-

Sl/akefp.
At Icaft ourerivious foe hiXhfail'd, who 'thought
All like himfelf rebellious,
Mition.

About the pile of yii^iiM, (licks and h.iy.
The bellows raifed the newly-kindled dame. Fairfx.
Spare for no fagaii, let there be enow ;
Place pitchy barrels on the fatal (lake.
Shakeff.
Milrcs crfjg'M have been the rewards of difTercnl

the generals of our armies do

not to fucceed in a delign ;

1 am enjoin'd, by oath,
\( I fail
Of the right cafket, never in mj life
To woo a oi-iid in way of nwirriagc,

the fire.

fucceliiii'ily as

;

mifcarry.

A bundle of flicks bound together for

A bundle of (licks foraay purpofe.

Miltnir.

not to produce itb effetfl.

Confider of dclorniity not as a fign, wliioh is deceivablc, but as a caule which (e\iam Jaileih of the

FA;G0T. »./.

fcarce lafts at

The fpots of this (lone are of the fame colour
u.
- •- very edg«; there being an

be ». fading flower.

Mud needs impair arid weary human I'cnfe.
7.

FartJJjaiv.

ihcfageitd of bufinefs, they are apt to look not
kindly upon thofe who go before them.
Collier.

H'^y 'c ox Cohun.

ftiall

To grow

in

f ding
comparifonof thegrcennefsof an emerald.

ATiltoit.

to languifh.

Thy mortal fight lo/ail: objects divine

When they are in the worft of their way, and hxt

2.

;

16,

Ivii,

Let none henceforth feck nCvdlcfs caufe t'appiove

In the world's fagend

to languish.

_

\faligo, Latin.]

A nation lies.

2. To tend from a brighter to a weaker colour.
it

//".

Such proof, conclude, they then begin toyi/7. Miit.

end of a web of cloth, generally
maile of coarfer materials.
2. The refufe, or meaner part of any thing.

1

for the fpirit

The faith they owe; when carnellly they feck

'I he

dle,

The gretnnefs of a leaf ought to pafs for apparent,

be always wroth ;

To decay; to decline

6.

Fa'cend. n.f. [from fag and end.]
1

1

More me.

His works, which in outfall.
For us created, needs with us muA fail.
Dependent made.

Mackc/txJes Lives.

cultiei.

TxQv'no.aJj. [facum/ui, Latin.] Eloquent.
3"o Faddle. "v. ». [corrupted from To fid-

.

(liould fail

I perceive

To FAG. m. a.

ences : as, a meeting of \.\\z faculty otfa-

,\.

Neither will

That dogs that fnarl about a bone.
And play together when they've none.
Hudibrjs^
3. To fuccced ; to hit.
The fox had a fetch ; and when he faw it would
not fadge, away goes he prefently.
VEJiratJge.
4. This is a mean word not now ufed, unlefs perhaps in ludicrous and low compo-

10. i-acult)', in an univerfity, denotes the
mailers and profeflbrs of the feveral fci-

into a )eIlow,

to be bor'n down ; to eome to

;

an end.

But cnly by the ears cngag'd ;

•

Shalefftari' , Macbtlb.

caufei, with what circumftances,
culiy or favour Ihall be granted.

To fink

5.

Crelghtonwith-heldhis force 'till the Italian begun to fag, aud then brought him to the ground.

9. Privilege ; right to do any thing.
Law hath fet down to what perfons, in what

in

not to quarrel ; to live in amity.

weary; to faint with wearinefs.

Hath bom \\\t facuiila fo meek, hath been
So clear in his great office, that his virtaei

all,

;

When they thriv'd they ntitt fadg'J,

This Duncan

bft-aufe torn

To agree

Excrements ; fettlings after dillillation and infufion. Siuincy.

Power; authority.

;

Theirhcads (Itould have goneolf. Shake//'. H.VIU,
Both he that helpeth (hall fall, and he that it
holpen (hall fall down, and they Ihall all fail loge-

fitions.

Tellir.g thti.- ftrange and vigorouifacuJiiei.

Addif^

to lofe life.

;

Had the king in his lall ficknefs/jZ/'y,

;

And (hew me fimples of a thoufand names,

grow weak

To die

F./ECES. n.f. [Latin.]

In requital ope his leathern fcrip.

MShon.

Leit the remembrance of his grief ihouldy.)//.

4.

fident with another.
How will ihisyja'^f ? my malVer loves herdearly,,

7. Natural virtue ; efficacy.

8.

By fate the ftrength of Gods

;

He had none of thnl'c /acu/rirs, which the other

3.

Tobeextinft;

perform any aftion, natural, vital, and
animal : by the firft they underftand that
ther like it generated : the vita.] /acu//j is

•

And not a maiden, as thou fay '11 he is.

Lecke.
_

To wear away; to reduce

'I'his isaman, o!i» 'vrinkled, ^t/ej/,

A power or ability to

.

io.

z,

to languor ; to deprive of frefhnefs or
rigour ; to wither.

The 61th mechin'\ci\ Jacu/tji is the wedge ufed in
cleaving w'ood.
/Fi/ihs.
[In phyfick.]

Locke,

diiappear.

3. Mechanical power.

4.

F A I

Where the credit and money/:."/, bartei alor.e -nnSt

colours, and, if not fometimes reft«(hed, vani(h and

neceiTary to ex-

pUin to us the nature o^ God, beeaufe it would be
impolTiMe, without beAowing od us other /mu/i in
than we poflefs at prefent.
Siuifc.

F A I
The piflures drawn in our minds are laid mfaJtng

Sidney.

So haft thou oft with guile thine honour ble.it;
But little may fuch guile thee now avail,
if wonted forccand foriunedo not much me
fall.
SpeTtfer;-

Tlicre (hall be Cgns In the fun, the moon,
the ftais, men's hearts failing tliem lor (ear.

and

Luke, xxi. 26.

Nor could the mufe defend
Her fon, foyi/7 not ihon w ho ihrc implores. Millom
1 laugh, when ihofc who at ihc fpr.ir arc bold

And vent'rous, if that/o;/ them, Ihtiuk and fear.
Mil,cn.

r AT

F A I
ilet htixtfii/fJ her,

and

fl)l

fiin hive

woutii

VEJlrtnei.
comronnded tor hci life.
He prefumM upon hu pirli ih« ihey »Ul noi/jil
him IX time of n«d, and fo Ainks it furpeifluoui

Not to aflift; to neglcfl

z.

;

FaI!». aiv. [from the adjei^tve.] Gladly j i
very defiroufly ; according to earneft
wifhcs.

Now I would gilt a ihoufand furlongs of fea for an
acre of barren ground : I would yi<'« die a dry death.

Lccke.

labour to msice any provilion bcl'orehand.

to omit to help.

Sbakefptare,

Since vitnttfaili iis in no needful ihiiiji

Whj want

means m;' inward felf to fee
not to perform.
;

1

To omit

3.

.'

Why would'lt thou urge me to confefs a flame

Daviii.

long have ftiflcd, and wouKiydiw conceal. AJdifsn,
Fain would! Raphael'sgodlike artrehearfe.

I

The inventive tJod who ncv«iyi//j hS part,
Infjiires the wit when onct be warmt the hurt,.

And ihew th' immortal labours in my terfe. Addij'o/t,
The plebeians would fain have a law enabled to

,

men's rights and

lay all

To be wanfine to.

4,

F A I

privilege:

level.

.

There (hall notfiil thet a oun on the throne.

To Faiw.

1'.

[from

«.

upon the fame
Swift,

noun.]

tl»e

'i'o

with ; to defire iondly.

Fail. »./. [from the verb.]

Fairer than faircft in hhfaining eye,
^Vhofc fole afpcit he ceunts felicity. Spcnfrr on Love.

Mifearriage; mifs; unfuccefsfulnefs.

I.

7o F.MN 1'. t; n. [fancr, French.]
1. To decay ; to wear or wafte away quickly.

a, Omifilon ; non-performance.

Mark and perform it, feed thou ? for ihejail
Of any point in 'I (hall not only be

Gilded cloud*, while we gaze upon them, y^/'n/
before the eye, and decay into confullon.
Fofe,
The fliow'ry arch
beholders
eyes,
Delight! and puzzles the
That views the wat'ry brede with thoul'and (hews

Death to thyfelf, but to thy lewd tongu'd wife. Stak.

He will nithoiit_^V drive out from bt fore you the
Canianites.

ycf. iii. 10.

Deficience ; want.
Death ; extinflion.

^,
4.

Of paintuie vary'd
Sbjirfp. fJen'-y

V HI

2.

Fai'lure.

ft./,

3.

;

and fell down as dead.

aw.ty,

To grow feeble;

3.

Enter'd fo fair, (liould turn afide tp tread
Paths indiredl, or in the m'lSwAyfaint.
Mi/ton,
How while ihefainting Dutch remotely fire,
And the fam'd Eugene's iron troops retire. Smith.

Faint,

^

llajiihrai.

wcthlefs,

Fainthf.a'r.tedi,y. aJ'v. [ixorafaititheartcd.'\ Timoroufly; in a cowardly manner.

Fainthea'rtedness.
hearted.^

rr.
f. [from faint~
Cowardice; timoroufneis ; want

of courage.

Fa'intino. n.f. [fromy«/»/.] Deliquiuraj
temporary lofs of animal motion.
Thefefaintings her phyficians fufpeft to proceed
from contulions.
ff'.feman's Surgery

Fa'intishne.s3. »./. [from faint,] Weaicnefs in a flight degree; incipient debility.
A certain degree of heat lengthens and relaxes the
fibres; whence proceeds the fenfation of faintijhneji
and debility in a hot day.
Arbuthnot on Air.

Fa'ihtlihg. adj. [iromfiint.] Timorous;
feebleminded.

A burlefque or low word.

There's no having patience, thou art fuch zfttini/;»g filly creature. Arbutbnot' s Hiflory ofyobnButU

Fa'intly. ad'v. [horn faint.]
Feebly; languidly.

1.

Love's like a torch, which, if fecur'd from VUiif
but then it losiger lafts :
;
Expos'd to Itorms ofjealoufy aud doubt,
The blaze grows greater, but 'tis fooner out. If'al/i,

Not in bright colours.

2.

Nature tSotiis atleaft aglimm'ringlight;

The lines, tho' touch'd hutfttinily, are drawi> right,

;

Without force of reprefentation.

3.

1 have told you what 1 have feen and heard but
faintly; nothing like the image and horrour of it.

feeble.

Shakifp, King Lear,

the fpirits, exh.iled by
arc rendered _/i//«/ and

An obfcure and confufed idea reprclencs tiieobjeCt

Temple.

(o faintly, that it doth not appear plain to the mind.

ffatts.

Words pronounced at length, founded faint and
Stuifl,

Without ftrength of body.

4.

_

Not bright; not vivid; not ftriking.

With his loli'd tongue he faintly licks his prey.

The hluccompa.-ed with thefe is a_/a/«/ and dark
colour, and the indigo and violet are much darker and

His warm breath blows her flix up as (he lies. Dryd,

2.

Though llill the familh'd Englilh, like pale ghoiis.
Faintly bcfiege us one hour in a month.
Shakefp,

The length

of ihe image I mcafured from the
faimifl and utmoft red at one end, to \he fainttji
uiid uimolt blue at the other end, excepting only a
little

penumbra.

Ne-uiton'sOpiicks,

Vrom her naked limbs of glowing white.
3.

folds loofe floating feil thcf.tinin lawn.

Not loud

;

Thomfon.

Not vigoroufly ; not aftively.

5.

Newton.

fainten.

Timouroufly ; with dcjeftion ; without

6.

fpirit.

Loihwas the ape, though praifed, to adventure ;
Vet faintly 'gan into his work to enter. Hub, Tale,
lley.i/K//)' now declines the fatal ftrife;

not piercing.

So much his lovr was dearer than his life.

The pump after this being employed from time to
time, the found grfwyj/n/er and yj/«/er.

Boyle,

If tlie prince of the lights of heaven, whitli now

Two neighbouring ftiepherds/<i/«/ with thirft, ftood

Uo<,k-r.

at the
5;.

common boundary oltheirgroundi.

as a gi.int doih

Rambler.

This proceeded not Ironi any violence of pain, but
from a general languilhing and faintnef of fpirits,
which made him think nothing worth the trouble of

ardent.
Faint heart never won fair lady,
Prov. in Cjtnden*s Rem.
Our faint Egyptians pray tor .'\,itonv ;
But ill their fervile hearts they own Uclaviut. Dryd,

run his unwearied courles, Ihoutd
toliand. Hooker,

tliioiii;h a languiihiiigy;j/«fnf/i begin

Cowardly; timorous; not vigorous; not

6. Dejefted ; depreffed.

Deniam,

Fa'intness. n.f. [from/rt/a/,]
1. Languor; fecblenefs
want of ftrength.
;

4. I'ecble of body.

1

Lucke.

groveling,

P»j>e.

hnguid.

In

The learned Caftalio was fain to make trcncliers

Milton,

[fane, French.]

ndj.

bafe,

Mongrels in faiSion : joarfainthearted Hn\lor%.Ad<lif,

to deprefs ;

lluggift).

early loft.]

at liailca to keep bimfelf from Itarviiig.

;

Shnkefpeare's Henry Vlll.

In intemperate climates,
heat or eomprelt by cold,

foul whom thou haft delivered. P/j/m, Ixxi.

Raleigh's F.Jfays.

ftand olfl
wretches,

me

Languid ; weak

1

was fain to forfwear it ; they would elfe have
married me to the rotten medlar.
Shakrfh.
When Hildebrand had acourfed Henry IV. there
were none fo hardy as to defend their lord; wherefore he wiifain to humble hirofelf before Hildebrand.

Villain,

A word little in ufe.

\l faints

Every weight to (hroud it did conlh^in.
And this fair couple eke to (hroud themfelves were
fain,
Sj>cjtfer.
Whofocver will hear, he (hail find Cod ; whol'oevor will ftudy to know, ihail be alfo/,(/a to believe.

To dejeft

To think what follows.

Fairy
Wherein her face (he often viewed fai;t.
My lips will hefaift when 1 Ting unto thee, and in
n.'_

I'ook heart again and fac'd about.

As if they meant to ftand it out.

WiW faintly burn

At the fad fentence rigoroufly urg'd,
All terror hide.
to enfeeble.

Forced; obliged; compelled. ['Ihisfignificition fcems to have arifen from the
milUike of the original (ignificatlon in
fomc ambiguoas exprefTions : as, /avas
fain to do this, would equally fuit with the
reft of the fentence, whether it was underflood to mean / ivai compdUd, or /
Thus
icas glad to do it for far of nKorfe.
the primary meaning feems to have been

Chac'd by the horrour of their fear.
From bloody fray of knight and bear,

Left ihcyfiim

a flight fault.

And in her hand fhe held a mirrour bright.

Fear not, neither hefainthrarteJ.
If. vii. 4.
refolve the next day, as viflorious
conquerors to take the city, or elfe there, it fainthearted cowards to end their days,
Knollet,
Now the \iie fainthearted rout
O'crthrown and fcatter'd round about,

4. To fink into dejedion.

To Faint, -v. a.

eafily

They (bould

10

and ftiong, and if the fuccefs follow not Ipeedily it
w'MftinI and lofe ftrength. B-uan's Natural Hijiory.
O pity and Ihame, that they wlro to live well,

Glad; merry; cheerful; fond. It is ftill

will

Ecc/ef. xliii,

The imagination cannof he always alike, conftant

letaiped in Scotland in this fcnfe.

2.

Guardian,

and icart.]

dejefled ;

deprelTed.

1

to decline in force or

their watches.

FAIN. eiJj. [peajn, Saxon.]
1.

fell

[faint

Cowardly ; timorous ;

courage.
They will ftand in their Order, and never faint in

Omiflion ; non- performance ; flip.
He that being fuSjecl to an apoplexy, ufed ftill to

A lapfe

Fainthba'rted, adj.

fuditb.
I^ac. iii. 17.
Upon hearing the honour intended her, ihe fainted

We arc ready tofaim with fafting.

[iromfail.l

carry his remedy about him ; but upon a time (hifting his clothes, and not taking that with him,
chanced upon tliat very day to He furprixed with a
Ht : he owed his death to a mere accident, to a
South,
little inadvertency unAfai/ure of memory.

ihe faint profecution of the war, and the loofenefs
of the civil government.
Davies on Irelandl

down.

li 'oodivard,

2.

not aftivc.
;
The deledls which hindered the conqueft, were

Their young children were out of heart, and their

women and young men fainted for thiift and

Deficience ; ceffation.
There muft have been an univerfal failure and
want of fprings and rivers all the fummer feafon.

1

Not vigorous

7.

motionkfs and fenfelefs.

F»'ii,i.Nc. »./. [from _/a//.] Deficiency;
imperfeftion ; fault not atrocious; lapfe.
hefides whM/ariirrgj may be in a matter, even in
the exprelTions there muft often be great obfcurities.
Dlgiy.
To fadings mild, but realous for defert
Popr.
The citrareft head and the tmcereil heart.
Even good men have many temptations to fubduc,
inanv conflicts with thofe enemies which war againtt
the foul, and mAnyJai^if/gi and laplefi to lament
Rogers.
and recover.

yet unlkitl'd to tell

Or where one colour riles, or where onefaints. Philips,
To lofe the animal functions ; to fink

How grounded he hij title to the etown
t f pon ourjaij f

Confider him (hat endurelh fuch eontraJiAie*.
igainft himfelf, left ye be wearied aad faint in your
minds.
Heh. ati. 3.

one careful thought.
2.

Temple,

Inadivity; want of vigour.
This evil proceeds rather of the unfoundnefs of
counleU, or of fainlnefi in following and cfieCt.

tlie

ing

F A I

F A I
Ing the fame, than of any fuch fata! coutfe appointii^enfer.

ed of god.

3. Timoroufnefs; deieftion.

languid ; debilitated ; enfeebled.

Wheu Winter frofts conltrains the tielj with cold,
DiyJ.
The Jainfy root can take no tleady hold.
The ladies gafp'd, and fcarcely could refpire;
The. breath they drew, no longer air, but tire
Xhcjiiixtykiiightswcrt fcorch'd and knew not where
To run for ihcitcr ; ibr no (hade was near. DrvMn.
:

YAl^.adj, [pjBjefi, Saxon; four, Danifh.]
Beautiful; eleg.int of featurej handfome.
Fair feems in the common acceptation to

J.

when applied to women, to

be reftrained,

He oaXyfair, and what he/a!r hath made.
Spenffr.
All otheryj/V like flowers untimely fade.
Thou art zfa'tx woman to look upon. Gt-«.xii.i 1.

Not

blsck; not brown;

white in the

complexion.
I

11.

never yet fan- man.

But Ihe would fpcU him backward ;

\i fair fac'd.

12.

Gentle; mild; not compulfory.

All the lords came in, and, being \>-j fair means
wrought thereunto, acknowledged King Henry.
Spenjer on Ireland.

13.

Mild; not fevere.
Not only do'ft degrade them, or remit

:

the Moors lawny ; the Northern people large, and
fair complexicned.
Hale.

3. Pleafing to the eye; excellent or beautiful in general to the eye or mind.

Thai which made her faimels much the fairer
was that it was but an ambaffador of a moikfair

Milton,

Commodious; eafy.

Hereby, upon the edge of yonder coppice,
A (land where you may make ihc fairtji l)ioot.Sbak.
I looked tor the jugular veins, opened thcfairejl,
and took away a dozen ounces of blood.
lyfemun,
17. Liberal; not narrow.
He through his virtue was as free from greedinefs,
As through hUfair livelihood, far from neeiiinefs.

SiSney.

Carev).

Carry him gently to myyi/ri^ chamber,
And haiig it round with all my wanton pi6tures.^/).ijt.
Thus was he fair in his greatncls, and in the
length of hn braiuhes.
Et^k. xai. 7.
for *s by depredations wafps proclaim

Fair. adv. [from theadjeAive.]
1. Gently; decently; without violence.
He whoyjiV and foftiy goes (leadily forward, in

ciiod.

^\itfairrfi fruit, fo thefe the faircft fame.

a

T'Ulig.

^. Clear; pure.
A standard of a damaflt-rofe, with the root «i
was fet in a chamber where no fire was, upright in
an earthen pan, full of fair water, half a foot under
the water.
Baccn.
Even fair water, fallia^ upon white paper or
hnen, will immediately alter the colour of them,
and make it fadder than that of the unwetted parts.

Farr'nitnl, and foul Ufair;
Hover through the fog and tilthy air.
[ah weather ccmeih out of the earth.

About three

of the clock in

Sliakefp.

fi.

the afternoon the

weather was vetyfairtni very warm.

Clarmjtn.

6. Favourable ; profperous : as, afairau;W.
In vain you lell your parting lover.
You wi(h fair winds may wafthimover.
i'liV.

7. Likely to fucceed.
Your felf renowned prinee, Rood i%fair
Ai any comer 1 have look'd on yet,
For my affeaion.

Stiakifp. Mi rcL if Venice.

The Caliphs obtained a miglity empire, which
was

in

a fur

way

to have enlarged,

Not effected by any infidious or unlaw-

9.

ful

methods

;

not foul.
a/j/'

natural death.

1

'iemttl,

Not praftifing any fraudulent or infi
diout axtt k, a fair rivat, uiwiijfutam.
:

fraud ; not foully.
There is due from the judge to the advocate fom»
commendation and gracing where caufes
fairly

m

pleaded.
Bacon.
To the firft advantages we miy fairly lay claim
I with we had as good a title to the latter. Atleriury.
It is a church o( hngland-man's opinion that the
freedom ot a nation contills in an abfolute unli-

mited legillalive power, wherein the whole body of
the people arc fairly reprelcnied in an executive duly
limited.

have llopt his mouth with a crull.
UEJirange,
\a this plain fable you ih' eSc^ may fee
Of negligence, and lond credulity;
And learn befidesof flatt'rersto beware
Then moil pernicious vihen they ("peak Voo fair,

Dryden,
His promife Palamon accepts; butpray'd
To keep it better than the hrtv he made:
'VYwiifiir they parted, 'till the morrow's dawn
For each had laid his plighted faith to pawn. Uryd.
Kalib afcend, my fair fpoke fervant rife.
And (botlie my heart with pleafing prophecies. DryJ.
This promilcdyj/V at firft.
Addifun en liaiy,
3. Happily; fuccefsfully.
O, princely Buckingham, I'll kifs thy hand,
In lign of league and amity with thee:
Saw fair befall thee and thy noble lioufe I
Thy garments are not ff«ted with our blood. Siak.
4.

On good term?.
There are other nice, though inferior caft?, in
which a man mull guard, if he intends loktef fail

Thctlage how lool'ely does Allrea tread,
Vfhofiir/y puts all characters to bed

with.thc v\Hld, and tuiu llie penny.

CaUier

m I'op,

As I interpretya/»/)yourde(ign.
So look not with fevcrer eyes on mine.

Gentlemen who do not delign to marry,
their devoirs toone pariicular/j/r.

yet pay

SpefJatir,

Uiinf^y ; jull dealing.
I am not much (or
that prefent; we'll fettle it
fijuaie,

liitiidi t.'>reiher.

Nic,

keeps

Arl'nibnci.

F.MR. »./. \foire, French ; yrr;V, orfortm,
l.atin.
rti) annual or Hated meeting of
buyers ;ir,J Icllers a time of traffick more
I

;

frtquenied than a iiurJt€t,

The privilege

Dryden,

Without violence to right reafon.

6.

Where

I have enlarged them, I delire the falfe
would not always think that ihofe thoughts
are wholly mine ; but that either they arc fecretly
in the poet, or may hi fairly deduced (rom him.
Dryden,
This nutriciousjuice being a fubtile liquor, fcaccc
obtainable by a human body, the ferum of the blood
h fairly fubltitutcd in its plate. Arbutb.on Aliments. .
7. Without blots.
Here is th' Indidlmentof the good locd Hadings...
Whi'.h in a fet \iini fairly is engrofs'd.
Shakrff.

criticks

Completely; without any deficience.

8.

All this they fairly overcame, .by reafon of the
continual prefcnce of their kin^.. Uptn/'Jiiate if Irel.

Let them fay it is groOy done ; fo it be_/i«>A;donc,
Hhakr/p.^Mei ryji'iv.s oflVinJfor.
Our love is not fo great, Hortenlio, but wc may
blow our nails together, and tall \x. fail ly am.

no matter.

.

Sbakfp. Taming if the Sbrew. .
F^'ilwiESS. »./. [fromy«;>.]
1.

A beauty; cllipticaily a fair woman.
Of deep iorfaken, to relieve his care,
lie fought ihr convcrfaiion oiiUtfair. Dryd.Failei.

2.

P«fe.

!

Candidly ; without iiniftrous interpieta-

J.

Fair. a./.
1.

Sviifi,

4. Ingcnioufly; plainly; openly.

tions.

One of the company fpoke him fair, and would

between ouifelves; fair and

After all ihcfe conquelfs he pafTed the
reft 01 l.ij
age in his own lutive couiUry, and died
.1: .1

JO.

Lode.

Sbakefp.

!

8. E(]uai ; juft.
'liie king did fo much defire a peot-e,
that no
ma:i iieed advife him to it, 01 could divert him
fr ,m it, if fair and honourable
condition of peace
were offered to him.
Oaie«i/in.

to any purpofe or defign.
Waiting 'till willing winds theirfails fupply'J,
Within a trading town they long abide,
YvWfairly fituate on a haven's tide.
Dryden,
3. Honeftly; juftly; without fliiftj, without

Well, you mud iiowfpeak Sir John FalftalF/afr.

^'!1 out-

O

Beautifully: as, a city iwXj fituaud,
Commodioufly; conveniently j fuitably

1.
2.

2. Civilly; complaifantly.

until they

Ralrigb's Rjfayi.
piiy and (hame
that they who to live well,
Enier'd fofaii, Ihould turn afidc to tread
Paih* indircO, os in the midway faint.
Mii:.

The various/i«V;V»^x of the country mud,Gay'sPa/l,
FA'iKLy.aJ'v. [fromya/>.]

will fooner be at his
that runs after every one,

though he gallop.

Boyle en Ccic/urs.

Not cloudy; not foul; not tcmpeftuous.

ite

A prefent given

How pedlars ftalls with glitt'ring toys are laid.

courle that points right,

journey's end, than

Ex.ek.

For dill new fairs before his eyes arofe :

MiUon'i Agonijies,

14. Pleafing; civil.
Good lir, why do you ftart, and feem to fear
Things that do found (ofair?
Shaliifpeare.
Whtnfair words and good counfel will not prevail upon us, we mull be (righted into our duty.
L'Ejlrange.

16.

lead, they traded ia

Sweetheart, we (hall he rich ere wc depart,
\i fairings come thus plentifully in.
Sbakefp.
Like children that elleem every trifle, and pret.-r
fairing
before
their
fathers.
Btn
fnifon.
2,
Now he goes on and lings of fairs and (hows;

Hudibrai.

His doom iifairf
That dull I am, and (hall to duft leturn.

and

at a fair.

To lifeobfcur'd, which were a_/J;V difmillion
high.

tin,

Fa'ring. V.J. [fromya;>.]

For to reduce her by main force.
Is now in vain ; ^yy*""'' means, worfe.

iron,

His corn, his cattle, were his only care.
And his fupremc delight a country yi/V.
Dryden.
The ancient Nundins, or fairs of Rom:, were
kept every ninth day : afterwards the fame privileges
were granted to the country markets, which were at
firll under the power of the confuls. Arbutb.on Coint,

For ItiU, methought, flie fung not far away
At lall I found her on a laurel-fpray ?
Clofe by my fide (he fat, Aaifuir in fight,
Dryden,
Full in a line, againli her oppolite.

15. Equitable; not injurious.

She'd fivcarlhe gentleman (Ijould be her filler
If black, why, nature, drawing of an amick.
Made a foul blot. Sbak. Much Ada about Ntthing.
Let us look upon men in feveral climates: the
Ethiopians arc black, flat-nofed, and crifp-hair<;d

J.

With (ilver,
thy/i/rj.

Open; dired.

But throw'rt them lower than thou did'lt exalt them

the beauty of the face.

2,

ef holding fairs in England is granted'bjr
the king.

And ev'n the beft, by tits, what they defpife. Pope.

The palcnels o. ihis flow'r
Btwray'd Ckx, faminefi of my maftcr's heart. Sbak.
TA'itiTY. aJJ. [{romfa/»t.] Weak; feeble;

'

fa: r

Virtuous and vicious ev'ry man muft be.
Few in th' extreme, but all in the degree
The rogue and fool by fits inyii/rand wife.

Beauty; elegance of form..
That which made htr fiiriifs much the fairer,,
was that it was but a fair ambalfador of a moll fair
mind, full ot wit, and a wit which delighted more
tojuJgeitleli

2,

than to Ihowitfclf.

Sidney,.

Honcfly; candour; ingenuity.
There maybe fomcwliat of wifdom,. but little
of goodiiefs otfairnrfs

m this conduct.

Ajteikiiry,'

FA'lRSPOKliN. adj.. [(toixi fair and fpeak,]]
Bland and civil in language and addrefs.
Alius, a pricll in the church o( Alexandria, a Tub- tlcwiltcd and a m?.r\cnomfair/pcil<cn man, but Jif*
contented that w« iliould be placed beloic him in ho- nour, whofe fupeiior he thought himfeif in dcferr,
bec.iufc thiougli
tradiilioii.

envy and itoroach prone uotoconiHaqkcr.

FA'IRY. It./, [pcph^, Saxon

;

fee, French.

Au

Ah tf«;

terra,

& y^i* Macedonum

fit

unde 1't(c-Xp(ot, Sc Romanis
inferJ,
qui Scoto-Saxonibas diciintur
firm, noftratrq; vulgo corruptius /a/r/«,
iM(T«;c5<it(«i ikif/^atti, five dii manes. Baxrfi^lci^o;

Now minutely revolts upbraid Km falthbnaeh

A kind of taWed beings fuppofed to appear in a diminutive human form, and
to dance in the meadows, and reward
clc.Tnlinefs in houfes ; an elf; a fay.
Nan PdgCi my daughter, and my little Tun,

And three or four inore of their growth, we'll drcfs
Like urchius, ouphcs, andya/ivVj, green and white.
Stakff^turc.

Then let them all encircle liim about,

know that things, anrwsritig thofe

To

'

Y k'nwfVU, adj. \ faith ATlA full.}

'

f. Belonging to fairies.
This is ihcjairy land sh,
:

.

Firm in adherence

to

ligion.

>

1.

Eph. i. 1.
Be ihou/aiih/ul unto death, and I will give thee
Rrv. u. .to.
a crown oi life.
2. Of true fidelity; loyal; true to the alin Cliiiil Jcftis.

legiance or duty profeflcd.

Hcncit; upriglit ; without fraud.

3.

.

fpighl of fpights,

taken, it muft needs have reference usito fpme utWm/vc.
tered word, as the objedl of belief.
Faiih, if it have not works, isdead. J.im. ii. 17.
Vifion in the next lite is the perfeiSing of that
fuith in this life, or that fatih here is Wrncd into
Uammotid.
Tifion there, as hope into enjoying.
'Vhtnfaiih ihall fail, and holy hope (hall die ;
Frhr.
One loll irt certainly, and one in joy.

Which to believe of her,

Jii'AfaithfuHy my laft defires fulhl.
As I perform my cruel father's will. Dryden't Ovid.

Withearneftprofelfions; with ftrongpro-

5.

tnifes.

For his own part he did faithfully promife to be
hacnn's HexryVU.
ftillinthe king's power.

HOnelUy; without fraud,

6.

S.

Alilton's Paradife Lffi.

They ate a

In Sbah/ptare, according to Mr. IVarburton, fervently; perhaps rather confi-

7.

very frouard generation, children in

Dtut, xxii> IC.

9. Prumife given.
Siuk.

[faith and hrfach."]

lireach of fideliy ; dilloyalty; perfidy.

with along/«/fa/;a«orforcipatedtailbehind. Brovn.

Fa'lchion, w.y. \atjhfalcatiis
fiKchon,'\

1.

;

in French,

A Ihort crooked fword

I've fcer.the day,, with my good h'ltwgfaleiion,
would have made them (kip: I am old now. Sbak.
Olifalcbions are new temper'd in the fires;
.Thefoundingtrumpeteveryfoulinrptres. Dryd.
What fighs and tears
Hath Eugene caufed how many widows curfe
PUllpt,
His c\c3\\nifalchitjn.
I

Mm

I

FA'LCON.

It.

[faulcon,^

/.

Italian ;

French

A hawk trained for fport.
As Venus' bird, the white, fwift, lovely dove,

O

happy dove that art compar'd to her,

!

Dotl) on her wings her utmoft Iwiftncfs prove,
Sidney.
Finding thcgripc oi falcon fierce not far.
ff'alioii.

Apulian farms, for the rich foil admir'd.

And thy large ticlds vihercfalcons maybe tir'd. DryJ,
Suy, will thefilcon, ftooping fiom above,

South.

The fame jcal ^nifaiihfulnefs continues in your
which animated one of your noble ancellors

Fa'ithless. adj. [ho'rn faith.']
I. Without belief in the revealed truths

Smit with her varying plumage, fpare the domlPope.

A

fort of cannon, whofe diameter at the
bore is five inches and a quarter, weight
feven hundred and fifty pounds, length
feven foot, load two pounds and a quarter,
fhot two inches and a half diameter, and
two pounds and a half weight.
Fa'lconer. ti, f, [faiikoitnier, French.]

2.

One who breeds and trains hawks; one
who follows the fport of fowling with

of religion; unconverted.
Whatfoevef our hearts be to God and to his truth,

hawks.

believe wc, or be we as yiL^ faitble(t, for our converlion or coufirmaliou the loice of natural reafon is

To lure this taifcl gentle back again.

great.

Hift!

Romeo, hid!

O for ayi/c'wr'j voice.
Sbakeffeare.

The univerfal remedy was fwallowing of pebble-

Hocker.

ftoncs, in imitation oi faUontrs curing hawks.

Siekefp.

Temple.
have learned of a falconer never to feed up a
hawk when 1 would havehimfly. Dryd.Don.Scb.ift.

Never dare misfortune crofs hcrfoOt,
Unlefj Ihe doih it under this cxcufc,

That Ihe \i lifue to ifaitklefs jew.

a

Air Hops not the high foating of my noVit falcon.

Adherence to duty; loyalty.
blood,

fal-

or crooked bill.
1.

[irora faitkftd.']

truth anAfaithfulncfs.

;

Credo,

falco, Latin.]

rofhofalcato five aduaco, from the falcated

Honefty; veracity.

is

a cy-

;

ihould not urge it half {a faithfully. Shak.Timon.

For there is nofaiibfiilnefs in your mouth; your
Pfal.Wx.
inward part is very \vitkedncfs.
The bapd.that knits together and fupports all

•

.

metcr.

fidently ; fteadily.
If his occalions were not virtuous,

I

Fa'ithbreach. n. /.

The enlightened part of the moon appears in the

.

Dry deft.
Dryd,

Shak. K* hear.

have been forfworn.
In bre»king/a;ri with Julia whom I lovfd.

A

horfe is faid to miV.^ falcaJci when he throw*
himfelf upon tiis haunches two or three times, as
in very quick curvets; therefore i falcade is that
aiilion of the haunc4ics and of the legs, which bend
very iow, when you make a ftop and half a ftop.
Farrier's Did.

(Qtine,

t9 facrifice his life in the quarrel of his fovereigu.

bincerity; honefty ; veracity..

whom is nofaith.

trick,, or am-

faithfully figni.fied by their names, and thereupon
believe as they hear, aud'pradifc as they btlieve.
^Siuth''s Sermons,

2.

Honour; fecial confidence.

Sir, in %ooi/aiih, in mcer verity.

Harris.

Falcade. »./. \fxorafalx,falcis, Latin.]

They fuppofe the natvire of things to be, truly and

Iler failing, while hciftilh to me remains,

^

A coil- of

rope.

biguity.

compafls,

Fidelity; unfhaken adherence.

Shak.

ly; exaftly.
If on my wounded breaft thou drop a tear.
Think for whole fake ray breaft thatsvound did bear;

other.

For you alone
broke raifaith with injur'd Palamon.

Fairy. Slueen.

hook.
The locufts- have antenns, -or long horns before,

Without failure of performance; honeft-

4.

Fa'itheulness. ». /.

tAaH ht a /aiti, that reafon, without miracle.
Shaki'fptare^\ K> Lrar.
Should never plant in roc.
5. Truft in the honelly or veracity of an-

t

Nutnbers.

Upon my wrcahcd women, that fo long
HavefoUow'd borh my lortunes_/<i i/i(/7y.

1

Tenet held.

"J,

£airj.Sluteii.

Fake. n. f. [Among feamcn.]

His noble grace would have fomc pity

Cemmon Prayer,

3. Trutt in God.
Faith is an entire depcndance upon the truth,
the power, the juftice, and the mercy of Cod;
which dependence will certainly incline us to obey
Sui/i.
him in all things.

I (hould tonteal.

fo dearly bought.

Fa'ithf u i,ly. ad-v. [itom faithful.^
a new again, the enligluened part appears gibbous,
1. W. rch htm belief in religion.
Harris.
and the AvtVfalcated.
2. With full confidence in God.
alle- Fa'lcation. »./. \falds, Latin.] Crookand
to
duty
adherence
M
ith
drift
3.
ednefs; form like that of a reaper'*
gi.ince.

Felix heard Paul concerning itit/aiih. Acl!xii\i.

6.

I

form of a iickle, or reaping h(>ok, which is while
(he is moving from the conjunflion lo the oppofition,
or fiom the new moon to tije full; but from full to

the Chriftian cfiurch ; the credendn.

4.

that

new woes uiiivceting 1 was caft,

Of city temper, naii;rally good,
Ar.dyi////"/ to his word. Uryden's Dox Sehaflian.

'

he fyitera of revealed truths held by

catholickyd/Vi6.

i.ito

1

Belief of the revealed truths of religion.
The name of Jliirb being'properly and IVriiSly

'I'his is the

To Philemon, ia\kfaiti:ur, Phtleaion,
I call to pay,

Fa'lcated. adj. [falrattts, Latin.] Hooked; bent like a reaping hook or fcythe.

/del, Latin.]

'1

.

A

fcoundrel; a rafcal ; a mean fellow; a
poltroon.
Aj\ old word now obfolete.

.

n. /. l/oiiy and_/?o»f.]
ftone found in gravel-pits*
FAITH. ». /. [Jbi, French ; fede, Italian ;

2.

Treachery ; [lerfidy.
Unbelief as to revealed religion.
Fa'itour. «. /. [faitard, French.]
2.

4. Obfervant of compaft or promife; true
to his contract; fincere; veracious.
Well 1 know him ;

A

fi'RYSTONE.

Milton' t Par. lyft.
Among ihe faitblefs,
Fa'ithlessness. »./. [from/arV/ji/}.]

By this falfe_/i/Vt»r.

have this day rcceiv'd a traitor'sjudgment.
And by that "name muft die; j-et, heav'n bearwitnefs,
A id, if 1 have a conMenct, let it fink me,
Ev'ii as tht .!« fills, if I be aox faithful. Shakifp.
So fpake the Seraph Abdiel, faithful found ;
Milton.
Ainong the faiihlcfs,ya//i(j/i(/ only he.
1

Siaie/p.

1.

re-

Wy fetvant .Moles '^faithful in all mine houfe.

We talk witli goblins, owls, aod elvilli Iprights.

Abdiel, faithful found

1

the truth of

To the faints which are at Ephefus and thefaiibful

lFarbnrii»i.

Be fecret and difcreet i 'ks^fj'ny favours
Are loft whennotconceal'd. DryJ. Sfani/h Fryar.
Such borrow'd wealth, like f-i'ry money, though
it were gold in the hand from which he received'it,
will be but leaves and dull wlien it comes to \iit.Li>cjie.

Shake/p,

A moft unnatural tnifnithlefs fervice.

this greatyi/r)' I'll cam mend ihy a£ls,

Makf her thanj^ibjcls thee. Sbak, Ant.andClnp.
Fa'iRY. adj.
I. Given iDf/airies.

Fell by ourfervanis, by thofe men weloy'd moft;

!

ideas,

Tays,/a/V(Vr, genii, elves, and demons hear, i'ojie.

Z. Enchantrefs.

Honeft; fin-

Thou baftard would the repofal
Of any trult, virtue, or worth in thee.
Make thy *)oxiifai:h'df Sbakefprare'i K. Lear.

Lxkt.

exift.

Sliakrfptare's Macbeth.

Nothing in love.

Fa'ithed. adj. [from _/}?// A.]
cere.
A word not in ufe.

hnifairyX\\ii: too pinch the unclean knight;
And alk him, why, that hour oi fniry revel,
1^1 their fo facred paths he dares to tread
•' Jnvjiupe prophane. Shak. Merry H'ives of fVivJfcr.
By the idea any «ne h»sof\/*i'V/«, or centaurs,
lie caiuiot

PerfidioDS ; difloyal; not tree to duty,
profcfTion, promife, or allegiance.
Both

2.

Thofe he commands move only in command.

ter t GUjfary.^

I.

F A L

F A I

r A I

I

^

Afaii 'ner

F AL
Ay5t/.f'/fCT-Henryis, when

F A L

With her of tarielj, and of lures he lalks.
Prhr.
»./. [fffkoueffe, French.]
A
fort of ordnance, -whofe diameter at the
bore is four inches and a quarter, weight
p.fbur hondred pounds, lengtli fix foot, load

To/j// before the lion than the wolf!

^a'lconet.

Shakeft.

A

thoul'and (hall fall >t thy fide, and ten thoulaiid
at thy right hand j but it (hall not come nigh thee.

one pound and a quarter, fliot fomething
More than two inches diameter, and one
Ham's,
pound and a quarter weight.

curfed Barbaroffa

before you by the I'word.

A

irt;. ]tx?i. 7.

They not obeyinj,

.

IV'lda&e.

Jell lick, and thus to his phylician faid :
Methinks t am not right in ev'ry part,
1 feel a kmd of tremb,i.^g at my heart;

Inct.'rr'd, what could .they le!.> the penalty;
Ar.d itianil'old in lin, deferv'd toy«//.
Milton.
\\mon falls, old Tyrrhcus' el-itll care,
Picrc'd iviiii an arrow from thediflant war. Drydcn.

"

My pulfe unc:)ual, and my hriath is Krong;

•K,''f.\\Ja1d!igiam, barbarous
A privilege which anciently fe- le. To come tjj a fudden end.
Latin. J
The greatnels of thele Irilh lords fudrfeniy y^//
veral lords referved to themfclves of letand vjnilhed, when their opfrOiions and ertortioiis
ting up folds for flieep, in any fields
were taken j>iM';.
Dalies.
Avithin their manors, the better to manure
Me 6rlt the fati: of Cxfar did foretell,
^ them ; and this not only with their own,
And pitv'd Rome when Rome in Cilar///;
In iron clouds conceal'd the publick light,
but their tenants fheep. 'XWf. fnldage in
And
imnious mortals feir'd eternal night.
Drydttt.
call
k
foldcourfeor
freethey
places
fome
,
ill. To be degraded from an high ftation
;
Harris.
,hold<
to fink into meannefs or difgracej to be
comEa'ldfee. ». /. \faU i.Vi&fee.'\
,

Bclides a filthy fuiTupon

He died calmly, .tud with all the caGiiefs of a maji,
'fiillirg afiecp.

(

WtfiU in to«e with tlie fantaflrck lltaie.

Dia.
Fx'l.DSTOoL. tt. f. [faU or fold zniftool.]
A kind of ftool placed at the fouth fide
of the altar, at which the kings of England
kneel at their coronation.
To FALL. 'V. n. pret. / fill; compound

/ hrrve fallev ox falii,
Saxon folLn, German.

pret.

;

former.

carried the keys which brought him in, andlhuth'im

(halt make

His chains/f//olf from his hands.

AddifjH en l:aiy.
Tlie bell mta fall under the fevered predures.
s. H'-Je.

Hannibal inv.ided Italy,

Cannot add another tiour.
Nor a loft hour recall

f

.

.

to one ounce ; then,

bv the
ArhuthtvA.

to grow fhaiiow ;

7.

as a river.

faith or

goodnefs.
labour to enter into that reft, left any
»fter the fame example of unbelief.

man fall

Hei. iv. 1 1.

To Ifrael, diffidence cf Cod, and dvjbt

To die by violence.
'iod and good angels hghlno Riehmond'k

to bear Jefs price.

i*ill

turn.

Burnowher price hfall'm
Rents
'till

will faJl,

'

I have two bo^t

Iclfenj

kingdom the riches it had
•

;

will .iHay thee.

1

'I'he Romans/^/ tiporf this

Uc/ie.

'

Siuift.

lo fink; not to amount to the full.
The greatnefs of an crtatc in bulk and territory,

doth fall under meafure ; and the greatnels
of hnaiices and revenue doth/:// under computation.

,

W.

Shake/;-: Henry
model by chance, but

ihe Spartana by thought and dcfign.
it 6.

.

'

.Seek Pcfcy and tliyliU about th^ field
Biit feeing ihou fa/i'/f oil me To luckily,

indmJry. and jriigalily, joined to a •well orierid

f"™"'/-

my (hare.

To come by chaupe; to light on..

25.

Siairf/,. A'. L,ar.

and iricomes every day

trade, (hall reftore to the

18.

finci. fallen to

fupply their own
Care-w.

Svift,

To come to a ilated method.

The odd hours atr the end bfthe folar year, are
not indeed fully fix, but areWeKcient 10' 44";
which deficiency, .in 134 year;, colleilcd, ampunts

JDacon.

To be dejeacd ; to become null.
This book muft (hnd or fall with thee; not by
any opinion I have of It, but thy own.
L,.clc.

io a whole. day;

19.

why

and hence may

b*-'

fecn the reafon

which 'itt the time of the
Nicerrc council /i.// upon the 21ft '--f March, falls

'

In feeble hearts, propcnic enough belore
To waver or fall off, and j6in with idols. Mlllon.
Whether fome fpirfton hi.lypurpofe bent.
Or fome/;//> angel from below broke loofc.
Who comes with enfious eyes, and curlt luicot,
To view this woild and its created Lard. Uryd^n.

Ai'i Richard /w/Zin h:ight of all his pride,

'

;

break go more ground than

on

(hall

1

When the price of corn falleih, men generally

To

To apoltatife; to depart from

To tlecreafe in value

"l

^/bftir/j^,

,

Dannt,
Since both cannot polTcfs what both purfue,
I'm griev'J'my friend, the chance lhould/(// on you.
•'
Dtyden,
I had more lelfure, and difpo(ition, than have

as, the river

falls.

be determined to fome particular direflion.
Bird: and fowls that reft one foot to cafe the
other.
natirally lay their heads under their wings,
that ibe
centre of gravity may fall a fon the foot they
Hand

Vol, I.

'I'o ebb;

j6.

1

.'Utaie/pejrr,

wiA fall that lvqt fill, 1 hqpc,

make Ihift tojo wiihoutihim.
<), how iceble is.man's power,
That if good ionunefail.

the Loir, ind the rivers that/;// into it. Arhuihnii.

9.

If the

weight.
From the pound weight, as Pliny tellt d^ the
As/// to two ounces in the firft Punick war: when

If. xxj,,. ^

They brought fcandal

Since this fortune/i//i to you,

Be content and feek no new,

To decreafe; to be dimiai(hed,,as in

Papitian law, to half an ounce.

To drop ripe from tlie tree.

Cafar therefore gave orders to build his gallics

8.

Haaktr.
Oit\i falls out, that while one thinks to» much
of his doing, he leaves to do the cffcft of his thinking.
Sidnty.
A long advertent and deliberate counexing of coafe]i;ent«, vih'xbfalh not in the common toad of or.
dinary laeft
Ha/r,

Hammmd.

,

Burnet.

n

when they fell,

Ouc would wonder how (a many learned men

15.

Waller.

For (uch- things
io fall fcarce once in m,iry
ages, itvliutufficc to take (uch order as was lequMitc

of wcaknefs,

"" Suilt.

As the Icaffallcth off from Oic viiie.and as a////.

7.

Jtate

could/j// into fo great an abfurdity, as to believe
this river could fl-efcrre itfclf unmixed with
the lake.

Altt,'^. -.

tireflcthihem._

:

o come imo any

Thcfe, by obtruding the beginning of a change for
the eatitcwurk of new Ufi;,w:ill_/i/<; under the for

All liquid bodies are diffufive; for their parte lieins

<^To pafs at the outlet

'1

terrour, or mifery.

To move down any defcent.

irg fig fronv the %-tree.

Finding this fame/i/Znioit of truth,

Made Hie flay longer than I thought.
24. To happen ; to befal.

14.

in motion, h.tvc no connexion one with anotltcr, but
glide and yj// off any way, as gravity and ihc air
5.

h.ieon'sHey:ry\\\.

Some paintera taking precepts in too literal a Icnfe,
hai-e/iZ/cwthcreby into great mconveniencies. Dryd.

»'":

;

J"o fink below fomething in comparifon-.'
Fame of thy beauty and tby youth,
Amon^ the rcil me imhcr brought.

23.

;

We Jell M dit&rence with Ludovico Sfortia, -who

[peallan,

Xike a bright exhalation in the evening,
And no man fee me more.
ShaktJ. Henry VIII.
2. To drop from an ereft to a prone jwdure.
Saul ///ail along on the earth, i Sam. xxviii. 2o.
That is a llep,
•On which 1 mulfyizZ/down, or elfc o*er!eap
For in my way it lies.
Shakr/pfurc'i Macheib.
J. To drop to be held or adhere no longer.
4.

heaven and earth will witnefs,

Rome muliyi.'/ that we are innocent. AdJifan.
13. 'I o enter into any flate worfe than the

a batilemcnt for thy roof, tbit
thou bring not blood ufioii itiinc houfc, if any man
/J// from thence.
Dtut.
1 Ihill/j//

.

jwftion of the look.
If thou fcifuade thyfelf that they Ihall not be
taken, letnot ihycountenance/i//.
yuditb, \\^i).-r
If you have any other tequell to make, hide it'
not ; for ye (hall hnd we will not make your countenance to/j// by tlie anl'wer ye Ihall receive. Bdfiih.
1 have obferv'd of late thy looks are (alUn,
O'ei'cait wiih'glooroy «are3 and difcontent. Addifm^

to be

;

ll

To drop from a higher place.
Thou

22. To iink'into an air of difcontent or de-

overthrown.
What men could do.
Is done already :

;

1.

To decline from power or empire

2

AdJifoMf

1 fell in love with the charjder of I'omponiu?'
Atticus; I longed- to imitate him.
Bijui.'t 10 Pope,

VVhit can be their bulinefs
\Viih a poor- weak v/umTinfjij'H from favour! Sbgi.
1

.

A; if he mourn'd hisrival's ill fuccefs.
Addifon.
For as his own bright image he furvcy'd,

I

plunged inti;. fudden uiifeiy.

A

Alltflu'iy.-

I'ortius himfcif oft////iin tears befsrcmc,

.

'

I

who have

health

pitied you ? and. benold, they ate gone belore yiju,cv«|/isice yMftU into this dilicmpcr.
Ih^ike.'

'

pofition paid anciently by tenants for the
privilege of faldage.
DiSl.
kind of coarfe cloth.
Fa'l D I N G 1 n. /.

:

my tongue, Drydrn's Pfrf,

And you have known none in

i

A

Knalleu

When about f.venty, upon the falfenefs of a Iov*r»
Hit fill diftraflcd.
Tem^le^.
fpark Hke thee of the man-killing trade,

Pj. nci. 7.

Ye (lull chafe your enemies, and they Ihall foil

Mihomctfeiirjjnizariesand nimble footmen, wiili
aTtimfaUoiteli and other fmall pieces, to take tlie
KtoiUz.
'ftnights.
.

fn fweet mulicfe is (\ich art.
'
Killing care and griff of heart,
rait afleep, or heaiing die.
Shakef^
Solyman, chafed with the lols of his gallics and
beft foldieis, and wjjh the double injury done unto.
him by the Venetians, /-//into fuch a raje that he

ShaUffcare.

What other oath,
Than honcfty to hanefty engag'd ?
That thii (hall be, or we will/<i// for it.

.

'

F A L

K one (liould be a prey, how much the better

Emma haivks;

the vernal equinox,

now about ten tTivs fooner.

20. To.dccline from violence to calmnefs;
from infenfenefs to remiffion.

It does

fluldti on 'lime'^
not/j// within my fiibiei^t 10 lay down the

rules of odes.

He was Itirr'd,
And fomething (poke in choler, ill and hally;
But he /;•//
himfclt again, and fwettly
^n
w'd a moft noble patience. Shakef.
A"ry///, her foaming ceat'd;
Aui
... i.ir loul,
tlie god dccreas'd. Diyden.

M

Felioncn iheClaJpik,.

To come unexpetflcdly.

27.
I

Am fallen u; on the mention of mercuries. Bhyje

It happened this evening that we fell into a very
plealing walk, »t a diftaiicc from hi^ houl'e.

i>

'

fide,

ihak.

Addifon,

>

.21. To enter into any new ftatc of the body
or mind,

28.
j

I

To begin anything with ardoui^ .lna

vchemcnte.

j A

'

'

The

Each of wftll \a praife of our country railireffcs.
Siai(fptare.

And the next multitud»/V// a lufling. i^'umt. ii. 4.
It is better to found a ptrfon afar off, than

it

L'Efirangt.

in a lively manner.

_

Stakefpeare't Henry VUl,
Fall oif, fall on, and hear him not;

ftill.

43. To Fall bad. To recede; to give way.
44. To Fall down, [diywtt is foinetimes
added to fall, though it adds little to the
To proftrate himfelf in
fignification.]

HaU.

To handle or treat dircfUy.

treat every part of

begin the attack.
They fell on, I made good my place: at leiieth
they came to the broomftaff with me; I defied 'en

Tayhr.

We muft immediitclyyii// int* our fiibjefV, and
30. To come vindiftively

To fail of a promife

iaci.

Adi
Addifon.

All kings (hall_/a// imvn befo« him;

as a punifhment.
» OOron.
There /f// wrath for it agiinft Ifrael.

Dryicx.
But fpare his perfon for his father's fake.
Draw all; and when I give the viari,fall on.
Oediput.

He pretends, among the refV, to quarel with m«,
to hive fallen foul

all

nations

Pf l»xii.

(hall ferve him.

1 1

Thou wear a lion's hide doff it, for Ihame,
And hang a calve's (kin on thole recreant limbs.
Sbakefpeare't King foblt*

Shall \fall dtmm to the (lock of a tree ?//". xliv. 11.

As

poflefTor.

The ftout bifhop could not well broolc that his
jz. To drop tir pafs by careleflhefs or imprudence.

!

To concur

48. 7o Fall in.

Shakejf.

WiA

fome neighbours there is but one thing can make
Mi fall out, and that is the inheritance of Lord Strut's

upon

yet,

a clofer

To langulfli ; to grow faint.
Their hopes or fears for the common caufe rofe or
Addifon on Il:ily.
/(r//with your lordftiip's intereft.
36. To be born to be yenned.
I.arobs pju^ have care taken of them a.t theii firll
Jailing, elfe, while they arc weak, the cows .ind

oj, brothers divide;
In cities, mutinies; in countries, difcord. SiiaUff.

Love

Wiijry xegctables are proper, and fi(h ralhef.ihaii
flefli; in a Z.«j>t diet people commorily_/r// .iw<jv
ArhathnQt i^/i IJie!.

To.ifevolt; to change

'

2 Kl>rgu

To apofltatife; tofi^.

Thefe for a while believe, and in time of temp/.«/<, viii. I^.
UUionfaltii-waj.
Say not thou, it is through the Lord that I fell
mKray i for thqu oughtell not to do tlie tliiiws that he
£«/(/. XV.
_

ler fliU they /i//

52. ToYk\.-l off, Toapoftatize; to revolt;
to forfake.
9{\i.^*W'«' "(hat; a/fl/Z/n^o^ was there. Sbak.
Revolted Mortimer?
He xxnf^i^fall off, my foyereign liege.
Sb.ikiff. lUn'y TV.
But by the chance of war.
I'b'cy, a^uftomcd \n afford, at o;her tinus either
(ilcncc or fliort alfent to what he did purpofe, did
then_/i//<iy and forfake him.
^fpi/t^fd.
1

'

To decline gradually

to fade; to iaoguifh.

TcFall to. To begin eagerly to eat.
The men were falhion'd in a larger mould,
The women ht for labour, big and bold
Giganiick hinJs, as foon as work was done.

To tlicir huge pots of boiling pulfe would run
Fall to, with eager joy, on homely food.

J
1

any tiling.

;

DrydeiK

To apply himfelf to.
They would needs /;// to the piaiflice of thofe

59. To Fall to.

virtues which they before learned.
1

Sidney.

know tliee not, old man fall to thy pr.iyera
;

How

Sbak.
ill white hairs become a tool ai)d jefter!
Having been broughr up an idle horl'ebpy, he wiU
ooly
made
fit
fp«*
to
labour;
but
never after/a//
is
Spenfor.

the halter.

They /// ta raifing money under pKtcnce of the
Clarendon.

relief ot Ireland.

Mj \ii: fails la play fo bad her chance,
Pope.
He muft repair It.
60. To Fa.ll tiTtder. To be fubjeft to ; to
become the fubjeft ofl
:

-

We know the cfiects of heat will be (iich as will
fcarce fall under the conceit of man, if the force of

Bacon's Natural Hifoory.
be aliogcther kept in.
Thofe things vinith are wholly i|) the choice of
Taylor.
another, fall undtr our dcliberatbn.
'1 hs idea of the painter
.tnd the fculptor is unexample
ol the
and
excellent
perfedl
doubtedly rtiat
mind, by imiution of which imagined form, all
it

Were I always grave, one half of my readers
Addifon's itpeikiu
would fall off Irom me.
To begin eagcdy to do
53. To Fall Off,

Addifon*i

it

58.

Thofe captive Xrihafll off
From Cod to woilhip calves. MUloa'sParadifi Lofi.

as fooii as
J into nothinj, almoft SpeSJttior,

U is cre-ited ?
41. To FALU/mi'«y.

(ofall out that you are miferable tor ever,
thou haft no reafon to be furprifed, as if fome unexTillotfon.
pected thing had happened.
If

Favoiir'd ol Hcav'nifo highly, Xofali off
from their Creator, !>ai tranfgrefs bis will i Milton.

and of rrc.i^ing new improvement to all eter-

nity, thiV fall alt)

L'Eflrange.

and the mice.

Mov'd our grjnd paronti, in that hap^iy' (fate,

.

Miltoii's Agoniftet.

Then fell out a bloody quarrel betwixt the lrog»

'

What caufe

to be loll.

iWJi

'

—

•Tif prudence to prvvenl entire decay. Uiyd, Virg.
How can 11 entei' into the thoughts of man, that
the foul, wliich is capable of fuch iinmenfc perfections,

Yet fo it miyfall out, bec4ufe their end

I'dlon.

difufc.

The lagitivei/'// aivay iO;0>% ting of Kabylnn.

Still j>rupagate;

To

pcrilh ; to die awav.
Languages need recruits to fupply the place of
thofe words that are con«iQually_/".).'A>5 off through

certain players

Is hate, not help to me.

cools, friendfhip /j//r

51. To Fall off.

allegiance.

;

it {ofell cut, that

We o'cr-rode on the way; of thofe we told him. Sbak.

50. To Fall e^. To feparate ; to be broken.

To grow lean.

To perifti

things which generally are received, that although
in therafelves they be moft certain, yet, becaiife
men prefume them granted of all, we ate hardlielt
iiocier.
able to briag p:pof ol ilieir certainty.

Svifi.
Moitifner*

fobn Hull.

Arliuihnot's

Sidney.

bis meafurcs, made the like advances to the dilfenters.

majpics will be apt to pick out their eyes.

Addifon's Calo.

Now for the moft part, it (ofalleii out, touching

Addijon.

You will 6nd it difficult to perfuade learned men
Addifon on Medals.
Xofali in with your projcfts.
That prince applied himfelf tirft to thechurchof
England; and, upon their refuf.il lo full in with

itiell.

my misfortune to live among quarrel-

cftate.

Sfteffaiar.

the people.

Irlend,

yj.To Fall out. To happen; to befall.
Who think you is-my Uorus \i fallen out to be*

It is a double misti^rtune to a nation, which is thus
given to change, when they have a fovereigu that is
prone to fall in with all the turns and veerings of

35.

its

:

v.e

Sxuift.

reilion of the graver fort.

Swiji.

,

It has been

49. ToFall />/. To comply; to yield to.
eur fine young ladies re.idily_/fl// in with the di-

falh to their vicars-general, prodots, apparitors, and

batcth.

inveftigation,

ihem propofed with great variety and di-

it nccellary.

Addifon.

If to her (hare fome female trcoanfalt,
1.00k on her face, and you'll forget them all. Pcfte.
In their fpiritual and tempor,\l courts the labour

HoveU

A

tyaodivard.
His rcafonings in this chapter feem tofall in with

Atteriury.
Any fingle paper th^t falls in with the popular
tafte, and ple.ifes more than ordinary, brings one
Addifon.
a great return of letters.
When the war was begun, there foon fell in other
of
continuance
the
incidentsat home, which made

Who

40. 7« Fall nv.'aif.

The cedar, by the inftigation of the loyalifti, ///
him to be

out with the homebians, who had cledted
their king.
foul exafperated in \\\s,falh out

;

ftinaion.

After the flood, arts to Chaldea/f//;
The father of the faithful there did dwell.
both their parent and Inftriuftor was. Denham.
You (hall fe<: a great zttiXzfall to you, which you
have loft the relilli of, had you known your-

39. 7e Fall fl<u;«>r.
into wjckednefs.

—

With every thing,

(tall find

Then 'tis moft like

to

to coincide.
Objedions fall in here, and are the clearcft and

each other;

Preferment/ij//j on him that cuts him off. Siate/p.

to jar;

Little needed thofe proofs to one who would have
fallen out with herfelf, rather than make any coaSiJney,
jeftures to Zclmanc't fpcechcs.
Hot/ fell you out, fay that ?
No contraries hold more antipathy.
Than I and fuch a knave. Shakefpeare's Kin^Le*r^
Meeting her of late behind the wood.
Seeking fwcct favours for this hateful fool,
Siakeff,.
I did upbraid her, inifall otil with her.

iJioft convincing ai^uments of the truth,

Spetifer.
abouts, are lar^je enough to contain them.
If you do chance to hear of that blind traitor,

38. ToFALLflou^..

To Fall oa/. To quarrel;
grow contentious.

56.

not to be a help to ruin their kingdom,/// by deHayward.
grees/row the king of England.

lot, chance, inheritance, or otherwife.
All the lands, which will/;// to her majcfty there-

To F A L L tnony.

14.

Clarence

To become the property of any one by

yj.

xlv.

To revolt; to depart

Is very likely to fall from him. Shaieff. Henry VI.
The emperor being much foUicited by the Scots

I faw him ftrelch'dat eafe, his fancy left.
Addifon' s Calo.
In pleafing dreams.

fenefchals.

^

fuppUcation unto thee.

A£ts, xix. J7.

fclf born to it.

To bend as a fuppliant.

47. To Fall from.
from adherence.

.\ kind refrclhing fleep UfjUen upon him .

The fovereignty WxWfall upon Macbeth.

£/?/-. XV.

They (hall /a// durvn unto thee; they (hall m*kc

Some expreflions />// from him, not very favour.
Sivift.
»We to the people of^^lreland.
33. To come forcibly and irrefiftibly.

34..

'

46. To Fall do^m.

Ulyffcs let no partial favours /a//.

The people's parent, he protefted all. Pofr't OJjJfry.

y tir fell on them all.

*^

Dnoitfe/l the beauteous youth; the yawning wound
Gufh'd out a purple ftream, and (tain'd the ground.
Diyden.

KaolUs.

province (hould_/a// into ihcir hanli.

on pricfthood.

To Fall over. To revolt; to dcfcrt
from one fide to the o<hcr.
And do'ft thou now fall over to my foes*

To come by any mifchancc to any new 4 J. To Fall do-zua. To fink; not to ftand.
(he wasfpeaking, (he/f// dowit for faiiitneli.

31.

D'ydm.

55.

adoration.

:

To make an ^flault ; to

Fall oti.

54. To

We have oitcn filleit iack from our refolutions.

They /f// 10 blows, infomucli that the Argonauts
29.

Bread with the bran, perhaps, and broken meal{
Fall on, and try thy appetite to eat. Drydcn'i Perfi

or purpofc.

upon the point at 6rft ; except you m^an to fui7>rizc
Bucm.
faim by fome (hort queftion.
When a horfe is hungry, and eomei to a good

flew the mod part of the Deliones.

Vo Fall

42.

XafuH

ht fails 10 his iood immediately.

Soare coarfc cold fallad is before thee fct j

In t euriouj brede of needlework one eolovr falli
a^vay by fuch juft degrees, and another rifes fo infcnfibly, that we fee the variety, without being able
to dirtinguhh the total vanilhingof the one from the
Addifon.
firft appearance of the other.

The Icing oniuftindiog of their adventure, fuJtealy/il/s to take pride \a making much of them.
Sidnry.

palliite,

F A L

F A L

F A L

L

things are repttfented which/a// under human fight.
fitjden's DufrefttOy,

(n.Tt

A t:

jj

t'

No rules that relate

to paftoral can

Death; overthrow; deHruftion incurred.

|.

Wail hisfall.
Whom I myfelf ftrudc down. Shakcff care's Mad.

A\ini\i/i//iiig upon thefepllies, had with them a

Xfi^Ues.

I

An inlic£lion in a town firft Jjl/s upsn children,
|.

difeafetj but, fpreading further, fcizes upon the moll

hcal*y.
TempU.
V<an falls ufm every thinf that comes in his
way; not a berry or mufhroom can efcape him.

difquifitionsalKxit llic nature of time.

;

plunge
from happincfs or greatnefs into mifery
or meaiinefs, or from virtue tocorruption.

6%i Fall is one of thofe general words
of which it is very diffi^It to afcertain
or detail the full fignification. It retains
in moft of its fenfcs fome part of its primitive meaning, and implies either lite-

againft her/;//.

And piticft this my mif'erable/a//. Daniel's Civ. (far.
He, carelefs now of int'rcrt, fame, or fate.

violence, or
In many of its fenfes it is
oppofed to rife ; but in others has no
counterpart or correlative.

Perhaps foigrti that Oiford e'er was great

fuddennefs.

Or deeming meaneft what we grcatell call.
Beholds thee glorious only in tityfall. Pupe to Ptrntl.
.

7» Fall. f. a.

Till the empire came to be fettled in Charles the
Great, the/j,/of the Romans huge dominion
concurringwith other univerfal evils, caufcd thofe times
to be days of much affiiflion and trouble
tho.ighoiit

Tu-morrow in the battle think on me,

Ani fall thy edglcfs fword, defpair and die. Shalt.
It that the earth could teem with womanS tears,

the world.

Each drop, Wttfallt, would prove a crocodile. Sbak.

Draw together;

iJiminution; decreafe of value.
That the improvement of Ireland is the principal
caufe why our lands in purchale rife not,
as natu-

Skikr/pt are's Ttmfefl.

am willing to fall this aiguoient: 'tis free lor
evenr man to write or not to write in verfe, as he
thinks it is or is not his talent, or as he imagines
the audience will receive it.
Drydrn.

to deprefs :

the contrary to

raift.

If a man would endeavour to n\(e oc fall his
twice ftill by half notes, like the ftops of a lute, or

ky whole notes alone without halls, as

far as

an

he will not be able to frame his voice unto it.
hacin's Natural Hifi.
diminifli ; to let fink : oppofed to

raife.

the price of your native commodiiiei, or Icflcn
your
Uadc, or elfc prevent not tlie high ule.
JUtir.

To yean; to bring forth.

^hakefpcart.

Fall. a./, [from the verb.]

;

Stealing and giving odours. Sbakrfp. Twelfth Night.
How fwectly did they float upon the wings

Of filencc, through the empty-vaulted night.
At ev'ry_/a//fmoothing the raven down

Ot darkiicfs 'till it fmil'd
Milton.
10. Declivity; ftcep defcent.
Waters when beat upon the (liore, or ftraimei,

Thea^tof tumbling from an ereftpofture.
;

.

,

at the/a//x of bridges,

or dalhed againft ihemfelves

a deep place.
There will we lit upon the rocks.

Hhaktfftare.

The Tiolence fuffered in dropping from
on high.
Mylontoming into bii nurtiate-chamber^ hap-

fened to have a/i//, and died.
i gfj,, j. ^{j
Spirit of wiuc, mingled with common
water, li
the MXfmil be broken, by means of a fop, of
otherwife, ftjycih above; and once if mingled,
it ftTcretk 001 ajaln, is ail doth,
.fijfs/t'j I'tyf. R,„

Melodious birds ling madrigals.

fallaFrench.]
1. Producing mtftake; fophiftic.-'.l.
It iV
never nfed of men, but of writings, propofitions, or things.
;.

The Jews believed and aflented to things neither
evident nor certain, nor yet fo much as probable,
but aftually falle ini fallacious; fuch .n the abfurd
doaiines ar.d ftoties of their tabbies. .JbarA'i Sermons,
2. Deceitful

;

mocking expeftafion.

The force of thttfallaeioin fruir.
That wi th exh ilerati ng vapour bland
About their fpirits had play'd, and in inmofl' pow'Vj
Made err, was now exhal'd.
Milton's Par. l^ft.
Falfc philofophy infpires
Fallacious hope.

.

ATilm.

FALLA'ciousLy. ndv. [from fallmious:']
Sophiftically; with purpofe to deceive;
with unfound reafoning.

We (liallfo far encourage conlradiflion, as to promife not to oppoli: any pen that (hall fallaciiujly
Bro-nm.
We have fecn how fallacimi/ly the author has
ftaled the caufe, by fuppoling that nothing but unlimited mercy, or unlimited yunilhmcnt, arc the
methods that can be made ufe of.
Addifon.
refute us.

Falla'ciousness. »./. \ixoxn falladons,\
Tendency to deceive inconclufivenefs.
Fa'llacv. »./. \fallncia,'L'i.t:m\fallaec,
;

French.] Sophifm;

logical artifice ; dedeceitful argument; del ufory mode
ratiocination.

ceit;

of

Moft princes make themfelves another thing froi«
the people by ayj//ayrofaijument, thinking themfelves moft kings when the fubje^ is moft balclyfuh,

jedlcd.

Hidney.

Until I know this fure tinccrtainty,
I'll

entertain the (now' fallacy
i

Sbakefp.
mtttfallacy, and miftaking to afcnbe
that to the force of imagination upon another bo<Iy,
which is but the force of imagination upon the proper body.
^^r„„.
All men, who can fee an inch before them, maf
It were a

eafily iiit(X%xo(s fallacies.

Dryden.

Falladi'lity. n.f. [(torn fallihle.]

Ua-

blenefs to be deceived; uncertainty; pofAbility of errour.
There is a great deal o( fallahility in the teftimony
of men ; yet fome things we may be almoft as certain
U^aits,

adj.

Latin.]

Shakefpeart.

Liable
to errour; fuch as may be deceived.

or a pleafing/i// of

Do not falfify your refolution with hopes that are
fallible: to-morrow you mutl die.
Shakefp.

And Harts, amidft the thirfty wilds to hear
tizwfalls of water murm'ring in his ear.
Now under hanging mountains,

Pope.

Belide the/,//, of fountains,

He makes hit moan;
And calls herghoft.
Pope's St. Cecilia.

(2. 1 he outlet of a current into any other

water.

down;

or cutting

ciettx,

FA'LLIBLE.

water running violently, thefe things made them
to
fwoon for fear.
iVifd
Down through the crannies of the living walls
The cryftil ftreams defcend in murm 'xmi.falls. Dryd.
Tlie fwain, in barren defcrts, with lurpriae
Sees lilies fpring and fudden verdure rile;

For ever, ever, ever loft !

J. The aft of felling
as, df fall of timkr.

of, as that the fun Ihines, or that five twenties mak«

A whiftling wind, or a melodious noife ot birds
among the fpreading branches,

I

an hundred.

By (hallow rivers, to whakfalls

The aft of dropping from on high.

I faw him run after a gilded butterfly
and when
;
he caught it, he let it go again, and after it again
and over and over he comei, and uji again,
and
taught it again; or whether liij/j/; enraged him,
•r bow it was, he did fo let his teeth, and did
team.

3.

Declination or diminution of found; cadence clofe of mufick.
That Drain again; it hada dyiiig/j,7;
O, it came o'er my ear, like the fwteih South
That breathes upon a bank of violets.

9.

And fee the (hepherds feed their tiocki

High o'er iheirhcads a mould'nng rock is plic'd.
That promifcs ^faU, and ihakes at ever blart. Dtyd.
2.

with the fallal our intcrcft, appears evidently from the eiTea the
fall of interelt
hath had upon houfes in London.
CiilJ.

by winds, give a roaring noife. Bar(,n's Nat. Hiji.
11. Catarafl; cafcade; rulb of water down

They then conceiving, did in yeaning time
J'j//parly-colour'd lambs, and tliofe were Jacob's.

1.

rally they ftiould,

I

Vfon leflening intercft to (our ftr cmt.yaa fall

4.

fj^^„_

8.

And when I rear my hand, do you the like,

3. To

Dedcnfion of greatnefs, power, or dominion.

To drop; to let fall.

eight,

Sidttty.

Perhaps thoutalk'ftof me, and do'ft enquire
Ot my leftraint: why here 1 live alone;

rally or figuratively defcent,

;

;

In a fenfe like this we fay the fait of
man, and they^// of angels.
Her memory feiv'd as an accufer of her change,
and herown hand v\ riling was there to bcarteftimony

Addif.n.

quantities.

FALLA'CIOUS. adj. \falla,e, Latin

Dcnham.
Dowittall; fofsof greatnefs;; declerifion
from eminence; degradation ftate of be-

ing depofeil from a high ftation

nddir.

TaY \\.\. upQii, To ru(h againft.
At the iamc umc that the t^rm bean upon the
whole fpeciei, we uc falling foul ufun one another.

To fink

Diflblution.
Paul's, the late theme of fuch a mufe, whofe flight
Has bravely reach'd and foar'd above thy height;
:

.

>.

64.

To fall it en Goazalo.

2 Efdr. viii. 17.

.

Ruin

Or zeal more fierce than they, thy fall confpire.

Aidlfon's SfeBalar.

2.

Upon a ^K3tfall of rain the current Carried aWa*
a huge hcap_of appks^.^_
VH^raagc.

to the

Now (halt ihou ftand, though fword, or time, or fire.

To get rid of fods and fcour.drels was one part
of my defign inyV//>^ upon thefe authors.
Pope.
To attempt.
63. Ta Fall «/«w.
I do not intend to fjU upon niu philofophical

I.

jfuduljf vili 9,
_
.
I will begin to pr.iy Rr myfelf and
for them; for
fci Ihefalli of us that dwell in the land.

_

weak conftitutions, or thofe who are fubjeCl toother

Autumn; the fall of the leaf; the time
when the leaves drop from the trees.

13.

What crowds of patients the town doiaor kills.
Or how laft/;//|ie rais'd the weekly bills. Drfdeir.
14. Any thing that comes down in great

fpoil,

to aflfault.

A L

Before the/j// of the Po into the giilph, it rtcelvta
into its channel confiderable rivers Addijonon Italy.

fword, and for a
and h.ui a greitfaJi before our enemies.

Our fathers were given

To attack; to invade;

cruel and deadly fight.

F"
lUiti.

Some were hurt by the falls they got by leaping
upon the ground.
Gi..,;vfr'sTrav,.ls.

a!!Wl the
Georgicks, which fall «» -<f that chfs of poetry
which. confilb in giving plain inftriiftions to the rei*r.
AAJifoit tin the Georgicts,

62. To Fall ufm.

A L

A ferer arfall my take away my reaiol*':

6i. ToVki-i. under. To be ranged whh ; to
be reckoned with.

[/alio,

He that creates to himfdf ihbufands of BWe hoj.e»,
uneertain in the promife, falliblt in tli^tvenl, and
depending upon a thoufand cirtumftaiicc, 0/1^1

fail

hiscspeftatinns.

'Tnvl'r.
powers need foi»a
alTiftance, bccaufe they are fo frail aai fallible '\a
the prcfcnt ftate.
Halts,

Ojr

intellectual or rational

Fa'i.ling..
»./ [fromyi//.] Indenting*
Fa'lli.vc in. J
oppofed to promiiiercc.
"1

It ftiows the iiofc .tnJ c.ebiows, wish the fcvcral
prominences and filling^i in of the features, much
more diftinftly than any other kind of figure. Addif.

Fa'i.lincsickn£Ss. n. f. {fall and />'fl«//}.] Ihecpilepfy; a difeiif.' in which
|.
tl*c
5 A 2

v

patient

tlie

is

without- anj' warning^e-

Wliofe/»y« foui\iation waves have walh'tl away,
With dreadful poife is from the main land reft.
Fan) Queen.
When that flood in its own depths were drow n'd,

.

privedatonce of hisfenfes, and falls down.
t^DidCafarfwoon?— He fell down in the market-

Dryden
The heart ot man looks fair, but when we come

Itlclt bchiii'd it_/fl//( and llipp'ry ground.

and foam'd at moulli, auvJ was Ipeochleft.-He hath i\xtfuin>,gM'":f'/f"*W,.
The d<«filher is good ajaina thc/iJuxs/icirieJi.

place,

to'lOTany weight upon't, the ground is /;iJ/> un.-'er
'
VBIiratti^.
us,

i
I

FALLOW, ailj. [plepe, Saxon.]
Pale red,

1.

;

j.

in true En'glilh,

How does your/iZ/aw greyhound, fir?
Sbakeff.
1 heard fay, he was oat-run at Cotfale.
The king, who wis erceffivcly afieflcd to hurit-

fj/Zm/
Hampton-court.

left to reft

for thepoorabulcs of the times wjut counte-

thief j

nance.

»-ell

Unfowed;

2.

I

Shakejp.

Kate.

love ihee,

Nolhoneft; nbtjuft.
The true prince may, for recreation, rfve ifalfi

k,

great park for red
ine, had a great defire to make a
deer between Rklimond and
as
as

Not agreeable to nsle, or propriety.'.
Now, fv upon myfylfe French; by mine hopeur,

or pale yellow.

Hhahfp.

,

Cla<tnd(,n.

Men arefnimgcs, which, to pour out receive;

after the yeat8_ ot

Who know /a^f 'play, rather than lofe, deceive.

[Suppofed to be fo called uop
_
the colour ot naked ground.]
The ridges of thc/d/.'viy field lay traverfed, fo

•

.

tillage.

Donne

'

A lie

a falfe alfertion.
In your anAveri tliere xemMBifaljlocd,
Counterfeit; impolttirc.

.

ceitful ;

,

.

,

Plowed, but not fowed ; .plowed as prepared for a fecond aration.

3.

Already were ih« Belgians on ourcoart,
Wliafc fleet more mightyevery daybecame
By late fuccefs, whicfi ihey i.\ljaifely boaft,-

And now by fiilla)jpeaiing.lee;n'tl to claim.
Tell him,

Her prcdecefVors, in their courrc of govemrpent,
fo leaving
did but fometimes call up tlie ground ; and
became .juickly overgrown with weeds.

it/a/Jrw,
'

'

,

Bacon's Hen. 'Vl.
put in fear, tatmfal/e unto him.
bo hail thou cheated Thcfeus with a wile,
Aguinll thy vow, returning to beguile
Under a borrow'd name 1 as_/ij^ to ine,
Dryjm.
Sofalfe thou art to him who let the free.

uncultivated.

Herfj/futv lees

The darnel, hemlock, and rank fumitory,
'

Shah/fcar^s HtMrj N

Doth root upon.

.

.

Shall faints in civil bloodflied wallow
Of faints, and let the caufe lie/i/.'sw?

Hudibras.

Fa/fe tears true pity moves :

'Built for convenience, and the ufe of life;
Ar.iund it falUxui, meads, and pafturc! lair,
little 6;irden, and a limpid brookv
,
R'-ivt.
difpos'd.
JV>4 nature'sown contiivancefecms

plowing.

^

.,..,,.

.

'French.]
Not morally truCi expreffing that which
.'
^iji not thought.
Inn'Xeuce ihall make
y

;

iMimn that be_/<i^, which ev'ry tongue

VV^h tn;;:i halb mall ages bet'nfoftronf,
As loj^one like, all hearts it ever ditw. iJavvV^.
Afaiceis thai in poetry, whifh

groiefn»M:

is

iii

Falsifica'ti.on. »./. \faljijication, French,

Advantage, wliilil his fje did rage niofl rife;
Someiiincs athwart, I'ometimeshc llrook him (Irait,
Anija/fedoh his blows t'illude him with fuch bait.

I.

^

*
fuppofitious.
3. .'Uiccedancons ;
Take » \efi(:l, and make a/j.^'V bottom of coaVfe
canval's: kllu wiih carih above the caovals. Bioen.

44 Deceiving expedation; not folid i not

found.
ilc fell, «s a huge rocky difli

bDw, he noted,

FA'l.3eH00D. «.,/. [ifomjul/cl
1. Wantof triith; want of verjicity.
Arlilictf of fraud t he *as'the flrll

may feem divine wh-ch is nor, is very plainly to
abufe, and even to fallify liivine evidence, which.,
injury, oftercd but unto men, is irioft worthily counted

'

Miltcn.
All deception in thtcoiirl'cofliteist indeed, nothing elfe biit a lie' reduced to pradice, dni/ii//efiMib.
/i'oci palllhg-fromwoWs to things.

To counterfeit the dead image of a king

\ii hi>
coin is an high oti'emc; but to counterfeit the living
imageof a king in his perlon, excecdeth ally*i^^".\.i:

ciiio/ii \

.

nefs; perfidy.'"
\ ..
Nothing wants, but tnat thy fliape.
Like his, and colour li;rpentine| may fl\ow
'

;

Hincefot;h ;

Itll that looheaveiiiy

Ihould

be that of a

Mahomet,
Btico/t,

Confutation.

,

from fcarehing aftei this ific, and to pieferve his ftory
Bfojme.
from dt'tc^lion of yi;^6rri.'/6«.
_

_

^x'ttniiiL.ti./. {(xomf(tlj1fy.'\
I. Obc that counterfeits; one that iiiakes
any thing to feem what it is not.
It happens in theories built oil too obvious or loa
few experiments, what happens toy<i^i&ii of coin;
for counterfeit money will endure fonic one rrooj^
ify/V.
others another, but «o»t ol tliem all proofs.

torn, pretended
"

it

The poet invents this fiftion to prevent pollerity

'

Thy inward frau<K to wani-allcrcatureslVom thee

To htU'iA/a/fucci, faarc them.'

except

that connterfcils Divine honour.

'

dccdtfui-

treachery;

2. 'Wantof-'ht)Ae(ly^;

Hivker,l

heinous.'

a.

That-prafl!S."d/ff//W*i/und«rfainVly (how.

I

The aft of counterfeiting any thing fo
as to make it appear what it is not.
Concerning the word of Cod, whether it be by
'
mifconlliuilion of the I'cnie, or by J'jljijicaiiyn of
the words, wittingly to endeavour that any thing

Bucon.

.,

'.

{nm f<iyitj.\

;

;

a

fiilure; the perlOos and aOiicn of a farce are all
unnatural, and' the maancrsyj//i- j that is, iucoiiDijien'filling wilh the tharaOcri of maiikiud.

Falsifi'able.

4,

,

for he woultf weaned be

But, Guyon, in the heat of all his ftrifc,
Waswary wife, and dofcly did await

aiiac like a biolicn

Of ••|».«»ria; man atfinns for(r,ue.>

Now obfolete.

That of fuchyi.^r'j fiicndlhip been fain. Spenjei*.
o(^'.
[fvom/al/ify.] Liable
to be counterfeited or corrupted.

I

Fahy Slueeii.
as fencers com;nonly do.

Fairy £J(/a«.

docs not Oktn.

A deceiver j

Of craft coloured with fim}.Iicity;
And fuch end, pardic, does all them remain,

others, •are'fcvcrely punilhed; aiid ihe nejiials and
fjfth.arud fri^ds and followers, vdio have l^ricd

.

[from/a(/e.]

/.

Such end had the kid j

Thire irifa/fr witnelTes among men. L'EJlyan^e.
2. Not phyficaUy true; conceiving that which

'.

Rogerp,
rt.

An hypocrite.

Fairy ^.

'Tl^fi accufatlon bluili, and tyranny
iihMijf. (fiitlrr't -Tuft.
ri KBiWc at palieiKC.

.

_

The prince is in no danger ot-beiiig betiayed by

Fa'lser.

This word is now out of ufe.
F.alSiIHea'rted. aiij. [fiilje and heait:^
Treacherous perfidious; deceitful ; hotlow.
Tiie traiteroiis or treacherous, who have milled

1.

r,,;

King Richard inightcreate a perfcil gucis.
That gix:aL Nonhumbeiland, then talle to Iiim,
Would cf that Iced grow to agrcaifr/i3^7/(y>. Shok,

vaut.

o violate by failure of veracity.

To make feints

'

.

Treachery; perfidy; traiieroufnefs.

4.

iheJli/Jene/Sf or cheated by the avarice of fuch a fer-

And in K\ifa!feJ fincy he her takes

HerfcU a nun, ty'd to retirednefs,
S' aftflsmy niufc now a chAt/allotvnr/s.' Donnt.
FAT.se. adj. [faljus, Latin j faux, fauffe,

and.

-

To ie the fairelt" wight that lived yet.
3.

oj-^ofed to hypocrify and inliiiccrity,

or foulnefs of intentions, efpecially ta
FLtrnmcnd' s Fundi^mentalim
perlonated devotion,

Wall goodly purpoles ihcre as theyfit;

Moriium's HuJianJiy.

is

all ftilfeneji

Fairfcemly pleafance each to other makes.

this iitt falliilving

proii-ls.

Piety

word op-

Ttlhtftn,

Duplicity; deceit; double dealing.

To deceive.

2.

Like one, who, in her third widowhood, doth

'

the

Is't not enough thai to this lady mild,
1'hu'j fi/fid hath thy faith with perjury}

[ixomfnlkw.] Barrcnnc.fs ; an exemption from bearing fruit.

•

'i

1

To plow in order to a

Begin 10 plow
.ought to be very lh;Jlow.
I^a'llowness. «. /.

is

nature ?

3.

To False, -v, n. [from the noun.

A

up fallows:

now call vice gain the reputation ol virtue, and that
we now call virtue grow odious to human

exaiftly; falfely.
What thou would'ft highly,
Thai thou woulu'il hblilyj would'it not fUy fa/fe.
Shakfji. M.tcbctb.
And ye! would'lt wrongly win.

Within an ancient forclfs ample vei-ge,
There Hands a lonely but a healthful dwelling,

la fecond

Suppofe the reverl'e of virtue were folemnly enabled, and the cra^iicc ol traud and rapine, and perjury and fatfenefs to a man's word, and all vice
were eilablillted by a law, would that which we

pofed.

Ground lying at teft.

.

the king commands
Drjifen's JSn.

False, flifo. Not truly; not honeftly; not

Morlimer.

gie JbAi.LOw. 'V. n.

-

In all thefe fenfes true

9,

The bell ploi'ghs to plow up Suramer/i//sw with.
3^.

Pertidiouny; treacherouflyj deceitfully,..
Fa'i.seness. n.f. [fromya^ir.]
1. Contrariety to truth.
2. Want of veracity ; violation of promife.

which

To bole l;is fetleis.

Morlimcr.

Smatft'fdge't Sefmons,

think 'convenient for us.

afa//e diamond.

ag«in.
'The plowing of fallovji is a benefit to land.

'

1,.

Counterfeit; hypocritical; not real j as

8.

by midake.

;

He knows that to be inconvenienf which wtfalfetj

Mic ladies will make a numerous party
him, for bdngjy/t to love in forfaking Dido. OiyJ.

Fa'llow. »./. ffrbra the adjeaive.]
be plowed
I, Ground plowed in order to

Add'ijon's SfeHaltt'.

Erroneoufly

z.

agaii.ll

Unoccupied; neglefled.

5.

that will hear ihiir corn*

and endeavour to footh their fecret refent-

menis.

man, no ways difgraced, noways difcontcnt, noways

Uetuel's Focal ronJI.

Unplowed;

4^

'

Diyi,

in vainhis t:oilKr move.

/a^^/)'; forhad hctiuly iov'd,- at leaft
He would have giv'u one day to my requeft. DryJat.
Such aS are treated ill and upbraided y^/^/ji findj
plaints,

Shukff. Macbeth,
t'alfe of heart, light of ear, bloody 01 hmi.Sbah.
A man to whom he had committed the truft o<
his peifon, in making him his chamberlain ; this

it

I did

And j ct hvjalf*/y faid he was in iovt

out an intimate friend

That has a name.

.j

bimeon and Levi Ipake not oniy/al/7y but infi«
nay hypocritically, abufing rafclytes an^
Gov, a/ Tcngue.
religion.

hollow.

grant him bloody,
Luxurious, avaricious, _/"<;^, deceitful,
Sudden, malicious, fmacking of ev'ry fin

Mlltom

dioufly,

1

"^^"'"^

^

Joit

YaTTio/UljunsJcxa endure

,

as
charge.

;

Touch of ccleltial temper, bui leturos
Of force to its own likeoefs.
'a'lselV. /zii;. [fromya^.]
Contrarily to truth ; not truly.
.

trajterous j de7. Treacherous ; perfidious i

the

the EngliUi mull crofs lliem in prefenimg

F A L

''

F A L

F A L

M'ii^^.
I

'a'A

F A M

FAE
A liar

|V

;

niotiJ' truly charged

one that contrives fiiirehoods,

all others Uiat put »heir Ih-ais tlie word together.

L* EJirange.

To Fa'lsifv. 'V. a.

GlanviUt^s Scepfis,

ifolJ)fier,¥Knc\\.]

which is probably a word from the fame

foraething for that which in reality it is

radical.]
I4.

We cannot excufe that church, which through

He changes, gods! zni/a/irrs at the quct'tion

enJeavDuri,

under Julian the

apoftaie,

to

Addifcn.

bafCe r.nd_/Jiff//the prediiSion.

It fiiall be thy

work, thy Ihamcful work, which

U in thy power to ihun, to make him li\e to fee
Sldmy.
thy faithyii//i/Sf</ and liis bed defiled.
He fujdtniy fjljified his faiih, and villainoully
ficv.' Selymcs the king, as he was bathing himfelt,
millTufting nothing Ids than the fallchood of the
KnoUcs^s Hi^tty.
pirate.
This fuperadds treachery to all ihe other p:ltikrit
ingredients of the crime;

'tis

ihtfal/ifying the molt

Drcay of Pieiy.

iiTifwrtant truft.

To pierce; to run through.

4.

My

friends quarrelled at \\x. tia-.i J.ilftfird, as an iimo* nation in Our language. The lact is confelVcd ; lor
to have read

it i!>

any

Er.glilh au

thor; though peihaps it may be found in Sfrrfcr'i
why
Bur fjppofe it be not there
Yi\rs Queen.
:

am \ fsibidden to borrow from the Italian, a polilhcd language, the word which is wanting in my native
coming
yNOtA^ Ji graca fonre raJartt efpecially whenpthcr
words are joi:<cd «i:h them v^hicL explain the fenfe.
Horace has given us

.V tongue?

a rule

for

I ufed the vioti fjijlfy, in th.s place, 10 mean that
the (hield ot Turnu* was not of ^roof againft the
fpears and jlvctins of the Trojins, which had pierted

The words
it thmugh and through in many places.
nhich accompany this new one, makes my meaning

.

prov ncial.
Barley for malt muft be bold, dry, fweet, and
chiofallered from foulnefs, feeds and oats.

nefs.

To tell lies;, to violate

FA'l.stYr. If./, [fnljitai, l.zlin.\

Fami'liar. ?/./.
.^n intimate; one long acquainted.
Tlic king is a noble gentleman, and m\ftmili4r
ULiLjp (aire.
When he finds hiinfelf avoided and iicgleLlcd by
Rogers,
h'lsfamiliarSt this aliedU him.
demon Aippofed to attend at call.
2.
1.

A

Pufie.

Report; rumour.

Love is familiar \ there is no evil angel but love.
abakefpeare,

FAMiLiA'RtTY. n. f. \_familiarit i, French ;

Jf. ix. 9.
Bacon.

ihcw what are trae fames.

fro nj familia r. ]

Renowned;

Eafmefs of converfation ; omiffion of ce-

1.

much talked of,

celebrated ;

remony

H J i.yira'j' for mildricl's, peace, and payer. HiaJi.

2.

He puipofcs lofeek the ClariangoJ,

3.

They

w<hcy

.

r.lnately fcttl«^'J, tin'.

.

Affable; not formal; eafy ia converfa-

^

'.,,..

.

fupcriority.
'ihe genius iinllcd upon

Be ihw familiar, butifno means vulgar.

Cap you on him fucli_/i7/////Vf obiruilc
And as a miral the moll wife dtludc
S.tudis.
Probability does'not mqke any alteration, ?-.'^fr

favours fo

!

a.

A lye; an errour; a £iil/e affertion or
pofition.
That Uanobiut arifeth from the Pyrenean hills,

..Out lite caitb it higher tQwwdi Ux nurcji,

m

o^i-

Sbak.

that he fwcats thou ait '0 marry

•

Shakrfp.

hisfiller Nell.'

I,

I.

1

;

Bccaufc th.at \ familiarly fomctimcs

t'ncercmoptow ; free,, as among perfons

Dj ufe ;'oj for ray fool, andch.it with you.

long acqu:;intcd.

Your lawcincfs will jell upon my love.

Kalandar UiCight thoofht he faw his niece Parihciiii, and was about in fuch familiar fort 10 have
fpoken unto her ; but Ihe, in grave and honourable
~
r; to undwiliiid that he was mifmanlier,
Sidney.

Shahifp.

He talks as familiarly of John of fjaunt as it he

•

,t*lt?a.

I, Y . nd'v.
[ fro m fainilmr, ]
Unceremonioufiy
with freedom like
that of long acquaintance.
I

muUi,

my

F A M 'l A R

fee not locifamiliar with l*cins j for he mifufes thy

.>

in the titiih nx fuljiiy oi things ( but only im;->.;i!
a difTcrenr d'.grcc of their cleartvefs or appearar.rr to
the andetftandmj.
.'„./ A.

me with a loik of com-

imagination, and at once JifpelleaJr fear and apprchenlions.
Addijan'i,Spellatcr.

tion.

II tiji,-.

;i

Pope.

palTlon and afliibillty that ftmiliaei'^iid him to

fum. u£ wbatlc;.ei

]

love isc

may enjoy the moll inli-

To make familiar ; to make eafy by habitude; to make coinmon.
2. To bring down from aflate of diftant

iF.AMl'UAR. eulj.

z.

any morials

1.

Then let n»e; famelefs, love the fields and woods.
[familiaris, Latin.]
Doineftick ; relating to a family.
Thej tiw^efimiliar to the dome.
Pupe.

fay

To Famii.i ARl'zE. -v. a. [familiarifer, Vr.\.

The fruitlul wate.-'d vales and running floods. May.
I,

Eafy intercourfe.
m-ifr.f.imiliariii,t with thefc gentle I'pirits.

Fa'meless. adj. [from /«?»<.] Having no
fame; without renown. Not in ufe.

Ncith'r ire (hry able to ^-'.lY ihrousll thofc frt rours,

affability.

We

Addifon.

tianiiy.

;

Acquaintance ; habitude.

contraft at laft fuch an intimacy and /jm/liaiiiy with them, as m.ikes it difficult and irkfome
for us to call ofTour minds.
Atteib.

Avoiding IXlphos, his more_/ww;',/ abode.
Since Pl.legian lob'jcrs made unfafe the road. Diyd.
Arittiileswas an Athctvian philofopher, yjmcrf lor
his learning and wifdom; but converted to Chrii-

Drydelt,

truth.
Thi* polr.t have we gained, that it is abfolulely
Smtb.
and univrrUMy unlawful to lie nt&f^lfify,

A

pour man found a pnzi} familiar with his wife,
and becaule he fpake it abroad, aiid could not prov^
CumJe/:,
it, (he piiclV fued himfordefamation.

Addifnin Sftdaler.

did in Egjpt.

Fnlfar cannot otherwife be turned than hs'fufjif.d: for his rtiield wasyi^rrf, is not Englilh. 1
night indeed have contented myfcif with fa)ing his
Ihield waspictced, anU bored, and ftuck wiih 'ave-

To Fa'lsifv. t/. «.

Too nearly acquainted.

8.

We have heard litc fame of him, and all thai he

Aru)!^o, cant. xtvi.

Dryien, with all this effort, was not able to nattiralife the new fignification, which 1 have never
fccn copied, except once by fome obfcure nam? leis
writer, and which indeed defervei not to be received.

He unreins
His mufc, and Iports in loofe/I:w///rfrl>rainE. Addif,

What is thisy^rwf, for which we thoughts employ,
Tiie owner's wire, which other men enjoy?

JLocke.

7. flafy ; unconftiained.

The defire oi fame will not fufTcr endnwmenis

2.

underllood: there is nothing mote _/J«/7/.ir

lightly

thiin this.

Chrnn.

to lie ufelefs.

frequent.

that may be occafioned by a true liypothc-ti:;, but not

Io FA'MBLE.f. a. \famhr, D.inifh.] To
hefitate in the fpeecb.
This word I find
only in Skinner,
FAME.w./. [fama.'Litia; ^«/*«, Dorick.]
1. Celebrity; renown.
The houle to be builded for the l.o»d uluft he exceeding ma^nihcal, oi fame and ot glory throughout
all countries

;

To a wrong hypothtfis may be reduced the crrours

With

with difficulty ; with feeWe-

Fa'med. <7d)'. [from favtir.]

lins.

Common

6.

M'jrtimer^s Hufh.l^dry.

Fa'lteRINcly. aJ'v. Hiom falter.^

1 ihall

Maji /* {^^g9 J' ^miierj ^rr/>:;7,
C&< inj'i pfMer lallatlo in nejfiim fd/.;o,

an infed as I, could eiueriain fuch inhuman ide.is,
and in h familiar a manner, as to appear wholly
unmoved at all the Icencs 'of blood and deiblalion.
Guilti'uei 'j Travels,
P.stient pemiit the fadly-pleafing Itrain,
Pope,
/liw/zV/iir now with grief, your tears retrain.

Ijicke.

plain ;
'

all faculiies,

To Fa'lter.^ v. a. To fift ; to cleanfe.
This word feems to be merely ruftick or

hefitation ;

Xifjijify'd, and round with javMins lillM. Drjd-n.
Ol this word Mr. Drjdm writes thus :

remember not

mind, by degrees, growing familiar w-'iih fome oi
thein, they are lodged in the memory, and names
Lacke,
got to them.
He was amazed how fo impotent and groveling

concerned in the want or
an exaiS obfervation of their feveral ways oi fullering would difcover.

weakncfs of any or

Ilii creff is rafli'd away, his ample (hicld

I

The fenfcs affirft let in particular ideas; and the

To fail in any aft of the underlbnding.

3.

and void of pain. Milton,

i'jm/V/.rr the fierce heat,

How far idiots are

To violate; to break by falfehood.

4i

In temper and in nature, will receive

This eaith (hall have a feeling ; and thefe ftones
Prove arinod foldiers, ere her natire king
Sbakfff.
ShaliyijV/rr under foul rebellious a.'ins.
tVifrman's Surgery.
He found his \^is falter.

temple, and the di'.loiution of the
Jcwilh oiconomy, when Je«s a:id Pagai.i united alt
their

To fail in any aft of the body.

z.

flrufVion of the

*

Well acquainted with ; accuftomed; ha*
bituated by cuftom.
Orchang'd at length, and to the place conform'd

5.

iSi'wu-6.

the de-

Ouj Saviour's prophecy l\ands good hi

!

:

His tear?, his words, his look, declare him guilty.

^•^'J'fy"'&

To confute; io prove faife.

To hefitate in the utterance of words.

The ftili-bom founds upon the palate hung.
And dy'd impcrfeift on the /j//V/;t^ tongue. Diyd.

tLoscr.
V»hich ii in truth no Scripture.
The Iriih bards ufe to fbrge mifalfify every thing
Sfrnfer.
top'-r.Ie
ordifplcale
any
man.
as they ''ft,
Anus.
'he balance by deceit.

4.

Haohr,
Let us chufe fuch noble counfcl.
That war, or peace, or bo^h at once, may be
As things acquainted s(ndfamiliar to us. Sbakefp,
Our fweet
Recefs and only confolation left
Familiar to our eyes
Milton^s ParadifeLoJf,
One idea which is familiar to ihe mind, connedted wiih others which are new and ilrange, will
brini; lliofe new ideasintocaiyrcmembrance. fVktts,

VJ'iXh faltering tongue, and trembling ev'ry vein,
Fairy S}uecn.
Tell on, quoth Ihe.
The pale airillanlt on each other ftar'J,
With gaping mouths for ilfuing word? prepar'd

corrupt tranflaii'is ol Icri, turc, delivereth, inllead
of divine fpeeches, any thing repugnant unto that
vhidi God fpcsUeth; or, throughyj^(^<'<'ajdi[io:is,
prBpnfcth that to the people of God as Scrirtute,

fee not how the Scripture could be pofTibly made

familiar unto all, unlets far more fliould be read in
the people's hearing than by a fermon can be opened.

>Spani(h ; faultur, a ftammerer, Iflandick,

not.

'

I

To FA'LTER.'u. ». [faltar, to be wanting,

To counterfeit; to forge; to produce

I.

Wel! known ; brought into knowledge
by frequent practice or cuftom.

4.

Epicurus, and all eafily confutable_/i/^/Kj.

Bo-illcrs »re natural ly/j^f/ftf J i and ihe people, of

M

F A

on Ariltotle by the reftorerof

.
I

had been fworit brother to him; and I'll be fwtfrn
he never faw him but once iu the Tiltyajt*, and
fflake/p.
then he bn.Ite his hcaj.
Iht govcmuui came v> us^ and, after (tlutanoa:,
faiii

F A M
{*ii /umiltarlj, that k<

A

JT
F
wu cxiine ta vlfit Ul« tiA V k'novi, aifj. [fameux, French; fame/us,

called for a chair aiid fat him down.

Bacon.

X. Commonly

frequently ; with the un;
concernedneft oreafiners of longcudom.
Lefler mi(H and fogs than thofe which covered

Latin.]
1.

R»'tig/i's Hijti^y.

mality.
Horace ftiU charnu with (graceful negligence,
. And without method talks us intoCcnfe;
r

Many, befides myfelf, have heard our fan:(.us
Waller own, that he derived the harmony of his
numbers from the Codfiey of 'BuUoign, turned into
Englilh by Fairfax.
DryJcx.

Sviift.
Get leave to fit whene'er you will.
n. /. S^familia, Latin; familU,
French.]
1. Thofe who live in the fame houfe; houfehold.
The night made little imprelTian 00 myfelf but I

Fa'mily.

Had virtuous uncles to protecl his grace.
Sihairfp.
They looked on the particulars as things yj/«9/^/>

my wife

for

Stvi/f.

With politick grave counfet

;

Go

Nor own lliy lathers have been foolsfo long.
;

;

natique, Fr.]

[from fama. Latin ;

To

kill with hunger; to ftarve; to deftroy by want of food.
What, did he marry me to famijh me? Sbah/f.

The pains oifamijh'd Tantalum heM feel,
And Sifyphus, that labours up the hill
The rowting rock in vain; and curll Ixion's wheel.

3.

JJ/a.

confulion and ruin from thofe very means, whereby
both that and this is mod efliedlually prevented.
H'ood^uard 's Natural Hijhry.

2.

:

liij/-

Hayu-ard.

winnowed with

with a broad and powcrful_/<iK,
winnows the light away.
Sliakefp.
For the cleaning of corn is commonly uled cither
a wicker-/jn, or ifan with fails. Mortimer' t Hujh.
Diftiniftion,

Any thing by which the air is moved
wings.
The pris'ner with a fpring from prifon broke
Then (Ireich'd his feaiher'dyuwi with all his might,

It would (how as

that love.

Ac-

fon.
Albcrtus Magnus, with fomewhat too much curio-

was fomewhat tranl'portcd with too much^ffcifulneft towards the influences of the heavenly mn.
(ity,

and adrological calculations.

FA'NCY.

«. /.

[contraft

I.

Hale.

from phantn/y,

phantafta, Latin; (favTeriK. j
be phan/y.

Hoolter

She vtas/anntd iuto Humben by her lUvcs. S/eH,

'\

Fa'.ncifulness. »./ [{'TomfancifuL] Addition to the pleafures of^ imagination ;
habit of following fancy rather than rea-

tions,

To cool or recreate with a fan.

this,

Garth.

cording to the wildnefs of imagination.

To Fan. f. a.
I.

(ingularity to deiiy

FA'NCiFUtLY. <7i/T'. [from fanciful.

An inftrument to raife the fire.
Nature worketh in us all a love to our own counfels; the contradi^ion of others is a ^an to inflame

much

as it does 3 fanciful facility to affirm it.

And to the neighb'ring maple wing'd his flight.
Dry den,
5.

Diftated by the imagination, not the
reafon ; full of wild images
of things.

What treafures did he bury in his fumptuous
buildings ! and how foolilh unifanciful were they >

Puffing at all,

pain of hunger; want of food.

celebrity.

:

the Ihovel and with t\\tf.in,
1/ xxx. 24.
In the wind and tempelt of fortune's frown,

The

FAMo'srrv. «./. [fiom/offieus.] Renown;

ifan that is

Alfes (halt eat clean provender,

Shairff.

Fearing to fuffer thirft Wiifamijhment,
In poifonM portion drank'll.
Haketvill on ProviJ.

and rake, with

. aJj.
[fancy and full. ]
Imaginative; rather guided by imagination than reafon
of perfons.
Some fanciful men have expeiiled nothing but
'

1.

is

winnowed.

ftrong.

4.

Apicius, thou did*rt on thy gut bellow
Full ninety millions ( yet, when this was fpent.
Ten millions Hill remain'd to thee j which thou,

the chaff

is

weapon fnatcht
Decay ofPielj.

F A N CI F u L

and challenged the other to
L'EJirange,

away when corn

Flaile, ftrawforkt

You are all rcl'olvcd rather to die than \ofa"ifo.

Fa'mishment. w. /. [from /(7wj^.]

up by ifanatick

[fan, French.]

To die of hunger; to

fuffer extreme hunger.

ftruftive engine, than the tumultuary

Gay.

The inftrument by which
blown

Thin air
Above the clouds will pine his entrails grofs,
Anifamifi him 0/ breath if not p/'brcad. Milton.
n.

;

of religion.
The double armature of St. Peter is a more de-

fliew him fuch ayi« of feathers.

with of.

nj.

Fana'tick. a./, [from the adjeftive.] An
enthufiaft
a man mad with wild notions

The modeftyj/i was lifted up no more>
And virgins fmii'd at what they blurti'd before. Pope,
2. Any thing fpread out like a woman's fan
into a triangle with a broad bafe.
As a peacock and crane were in company, the

To kill by deprivation or denial of ?ny
thing neceflary to life.
Milton ufes it

yuFA'MiSH.

Miltn,

To every other bread a flame.

tail,

Orus, and their train,

Their waad'ring gods difguis'd lu brutiih forms.

Not to be told or fafely fecn,
Dire^s its wanton motions (o^
That it wounds more than Cupid's bow?
Gives coolnefs to the matchlcfs dame.

peacock fpread his

Ifis,

Fanaiicli Egypt, andherpriefts, to feek

In other hands thtfan would prove
An engine of fmall jorce in love ;
But ihe, with fuch an air and mien.

Dry den.
.2.

Ofiris,

With mond'ious ihapes and forceries abus'd

Flavia, the leafl and flighted Coy

thofe fupplies that come by fea, but principally by
the goodnefs of God.
ilak.
This city never felt a fiege before.
Silt from the lake rcceiv'd its daily Itore^

1.

Lnthufiattick ; ftruck w'itk
a fuperilitious frenzy.

Can with refiftlefs art employ ;

Will laugh a fiege to fuorn : here let them lie,
*T\\\/jmiKe and the ague eat them up.
Sh.ikt/^.
Famines have not been of late obfervcd to be rate,
partly becaufe of the induftry of mankird, partly by

a.

models of antiquity, which has ftood unlhakcn by
the mod furious affaiilts of popery on the one hand,
and_/a»ii//r(/'OT on the other ; has triumphed over
alt
the arguments of its enemies, and has nothing now
to contend with but their flanders and calumnies.
,

for want of viftuals.
Our caftle's ftrength

Tj.

A

church whofe doflrines are deriv::^ from the
clear fountains of the Scriptures, wliofe
polity and
dilcipline are formed upon the moll uncorrupted

the air and cool themfelves.

Sbalceffcare

famis, old French.]

En-

thufiafm ; religious frenzy.

.

With fcarfs, inifans, and doublechange of brav'ry.
With amber bracelets, beads, with all this knav'ry.

7» FA'.MISH.

I-ana'ticism. 7,./ [from /anatick.]

Cele-

Scarcity of food.; dearth.; diftrefs

Dryden^

have coUefled fome few, therein A/rw/W
the
Bacon's Apotihthegm:,

Not fo the wicked; but as chafT, which,
/j»»V.
The wind drives, fothe wicked Ihall not iland
Injudgment.
y^,y,^„_

Voters.
FAN. «./. \jvanuus, Latin.]
-,
.
FANA'TICK. ai/J. {frftattcm, Latin fa1. An isillrument ufed by ladies to move

;

Famine will foon in multitudes appear.

I

brity.; great fame.

Wa'mi^z. It./, [/limine, Vrench /ames , La-

Which now Ihut up, and millions crowded here.

riryden.

,^

old, not omitting any.

then the king

Fa'mous.vess. «. /. \{tomfam(iHs.\

Bacon.

oily and watry.

3.

fpoken of and believed, and worthy to be recorded
and read.
Cyeiv'i Ci>f.

Pope.

a tribe ; a fpetaes.
There be two grcaty;i/«7/« of things, fulphareous
and mercurial, infianiniable and not inflammable,

.

;

;

If thy .incicn/ but ignoble blood
Has crept through fcoundrels ever fincc the flood.
and cuinpiain thyjumi'/ji is young,

'""'•

„
And now his fliorter
breath, with fultry air.
and/«r her parting hair. Pope,
Tofeparate, as by winnowing.

Pants on her neck,

Menecrates and Menas, famous pyrates.

progenitor; a race; a tribe a generation.
Ol Gcrflion wisthc/'am;'/>of the Libnites. Nuxii.
a genealogy.
3. A courfe of defcenr

tin.]

Calm as the breath whichyjwi our callern groves^
And bright, as when thy eyes tirft lighted up out

middle fignification,
and imports fame whether for good or ill.

from one common

cannot anfwer for my whole family;
prevailed on me to take fomewhat.

mature and crude,

:

Drjden'j Cymon and Iftigema.

repofe.

2, It has foraetimes a

Make tlie fea ferve them. S/t>aic/f>. Mnt. atid Cleofi.
Fa'mously. <7</ti. [from /nmous,] With
with great celebration.
great renown
Then this land vt:\^faniaufiy enriched

:

A clafs

TUt/mnme wind upon her bofom blowi^

To meet tbejanning wind the bofom rofe
The Janning wind and puriing dreams continue her

Of women, fung atfolcnui feUivals. A^ilton^s A^on.

Chufc for companions tete-a-ietc\

4.

Solac'J the woods, and fpread their painted wingi,
'Tillev'n.
Miltui'tParadi/cLaJl.

I (hall be nam'd among the /aium/.Ji

Who at their dinners, en families

that defcend

From branch to branch the fmallcr birds with fong

Peacham on Orawing.

mily way ; domeftically.
Deluded mortaU, whom the great

Thofe

Floats as they fiSi.fann'd with unnumber'd plumes

mire; whereupon he waslurnamed Rupographus.

tJMl'LLE. [tufamilU, French.] Li a fa-

2.

f«» you into defpair,
^f>akeJJ>.CoritlaJlkt.
The Noi'weyan banntit ffout the tky,
Ani/an our people cold.
Siahf, Matitth.
The air

bale things; as eartlicn piichers, a fcuUery, rogues
together by the ears, and fwine tumbling in the

Pope.

to affcft by air put in mo^

I.et every feeble humour (hake your hearts
i
Your enemies, with nodding of their plumes,

Henry the Fifth, too fanxm) to live long |

without folemnity ; without for-

Will, like a friend, familinrly convey
The trued notions in the eaticft way.

Renowed; celebrated; much talked of
Englana ne'er loft a king otfo much worth,
Shai.
There rofe up before Mofes two hundred and fifty
princes of the anembly, /.tmcvt in the congregatioji,
Nuinb, xvi. 2.
men of renown.
She became fitm-ut among women ; tor they had
Exjtii. xxiii. 10.
executed judgment upon her.
Pyreius was only fam»ua for counterfeiting all

w

;

tion.

and praifcd.

Greece with fo long darknefs, iofamilijriy pr«fcnt
great alterations in the fun and
our fenfes witji

moon.
3, Eafily ;

F A K
To ventilate

z.

It

fhould

Imagination ; the power by which the
itfelf images and repre-

mind forms to

fentations

FAN

F A-N-i
rentation of things, perfons, or fceiies of
being.
STiakefpeare, fmcy': 'vcettll: child
Warble his native wood-notes wild.
Milton.

mha

to image to

1 h.s IS no flattery.

"'"''',''.'? '

Or Wnowledge, or opinion. Milion'sParadlftLrJi.

2.

Though no evidence affcfts the /a;:i-j, fo Ilrongly

To hke

J"'0> but can ne 'er exprefs.
to be pleafed with.
;

I^ve is \i^ fancy led about.

An opinion bred rather by the imagination than the reafon.
Men's private faxcies muft give place to the
higher judgment of that chuich which is
in autho-

»i!y over them.

Hioier.

A

pcrfon of a full and ample fortune, who was
not
difturbed by iny fancies in religion.
ClannJm

have always hid i fancy, that learning might b;

made a play and recreation to children.
Lotkc.
3. Talk ; idea ; conception of things.

W\i fancy laycxtremely to travelling. L'Efiramge.
For you, lair Hermia, look you arm yourfclf,
To fit yoMrfanciet to your father's will
Or clfe the law 01 .Athens yields you up

to

Whom I will irurt as
«>'

fAND ioifmiiJ.

It is retained ia Scotland.
This when as true by tryal he o\xl
fand.

'^''•""'"'

m

Fa'kcled. adj. [ixom fangle.] This word
ftems to (ignify gawdv ; ridiculoufly

facrifice,

tmbarmenis all of fury, (hall lift up

Ihewy ; vainly decorated
neiu fanglcd,.
therefore new-falhioned; dreffed out
:

Hbakcffeare'tCori^lanus.
'''""'S'
r°i'i7?."f L
t^ Id Lalibe,
who kept the latci

IS

'

fane
Oijuno, nowlhefeem'd.
Drjdcn's yEn.
Vet lome tafanet repair'd, and
humble rites
Fertorro'd to Thor and Woden,
fabled gods,

W ho w.tli their vot

Ilowbegor, iww nouridied?
It is engender'd in the ryes,

'ries in one ruin lliar'd .

A he cd fane in Egypt's fruitful lands.

Philips.

Tk
I he belJs are

Tickrli.

in new decorations.
Quick wits be in delirc ntvi fangled, and in
purpofe unconltant.

A book

Hewn from the Thebaii mountain's rocky womb.
.:

7. Caprice; hiunour; whim.
True worth Ihall gain me, that it

may be faid
^''i!"' ."•"/"'O'. once a woman led.
DryJen
good
correfpondence
»
"k"' ^J'P'j'T
•ith the Jacobites
towards the head of the Nile,
for
fear they ihouU take a fancy
to turn the courfV. of
that river.
»,. ,,

-J^k'I

ejn«thatwa.jutlentring upon a long journev,
'
took up 1fancy of putting a trick, upon
Mercury.

The altering of the fcent, coloitr, or
t.ifte of
irmi, iyin.uhus, mixing, or
cutting into the bark
or root of .the ir«:, herb, r,
fl„„„, 3,
coloured,
ajtomatical, or medicinal
fubilaiice, are bur/,;,a„
«be caufe ... for that ihofe
thing, have panel their
BacX', Natural Hij"'
picafe, or entertains

,

nilh.

Originally in Arabick
pro.^lifcs

it

form.
Menage.]
1.
bully; a heftor.
Virgil

11,

a bold avower of his own
the civility of our poets, is tlic

chai.i,*_ter of ifunfaron

2.

or heflor.

Fa'nnel.

can perform.
There ist faxfarom in the trials of
wit too, as
well as in feats of arms;
and none f» forward to
engage in argument or difc-ourfe
as thole that arc
Icait able 10 go through
with it.

Mortimer

^etA ijcy. a..». ffrom the noun.

1

imagine ; to bcLcve without
bei»«

^

to prove,

AU are not always bound to hate and

To
able

puniOi the

lr« enemies of leiigion, much
lefs any whom
they

are ajway, obliged
.0 lovl
Its UU! fr^ndl, and to pay
iot its iery criemic,
all

S.-rutn Strmciu.

A bluftcr

;

a tumour ot

fifti-

tious dignity.

The hil'wj opicd this proceeding from thi
fanfaronade ol Montieur Bouffleuj-s.
H-wft.
To FANCJ. -v. a. [pngan, Saxon ; vangen,

Dutch.]

To fcize

;.

to gripe ; to clutch.

To -vang is yet ufed in Devonfhire.
l>c(lructi«ny.i«g mankind !

Shakcfiu Timon.

fAKo. n.f. [from the verb.]
I. The Ibng tulks of a boar
or other ani-

».y.

aa

:

to two.

Av?..

[famrt, French.]

A fort

Dia.
„ ^'^^"Ha nner. «./ [from/r?».J One that plaws
"

a fan.
I will fend unto Babylon /.in«rj thai

L'EJlramc

Ifrench. j

for bordert.

Henry W.

A quantity of wares

«./.

of ornament like a fcarf, worn about
ther
left arm of a mafs-prieft
when he offi-

Dryden

A blufterer; a boailer of more than he

(hall fan

tA jiTASiBD. aa^. .-^
[from /<7a/<7^v.]
'

X?

.

NGor.

hundred weight three quarters.

makes /Kneas
which,

Tobthlefs;-

raw filk, &c. containing iVoni one

Mtthout real ufc or value,

tondon-pride ii , ptetij/^y)

I'A

A

virtues,

Shaltfpearc's Cimhiline.

{hovafavgS^

So that his pow'r, like to i
fungitfs lion,
Mayoftcr, bu^ nor hold.
-S/jakefpcare's

lignifies

what he cannot per-

adj.

without teeth.
The king hath wafted all his rods
On late offenders, that he now doth lack
The very iiillrumcnt of chaltifement;

ravilh'd from the indullrious fwains,

FJ'NFARON. n.f. [French, from the Spaone who

AfcLm.
oh, rare one!

Nobler than tlut it covers.

I'ANGLESs.

trom men their cities, and from gods their/a«M.

""*''

8. Falfe notion.

,

!

Be not, as in this /jng/,,/, world, a garment

I

Wjih gazing fed, ini fancy dies
Inthe cradle whereit lies.
^bjk.ff.Mfrcl>.of yen.

to

«fw /angles, mnu fangknefi.

Hot fane nor capitol.

Tell me where lifuacy bred.
Or in the heart, or in the head ?

Philips.

;

;

^""

'""'^'^ °n ''<: P'^i".

attempt Slcivmr.] Silly attempt trifling
fcheme. It is never ufed, or rarely,
but
contempt with the epithet wi*,',- as,

Si<«fir

A temple a place confecrated to religion,
A poetical word.

Sbahffeare.

will aJdcrs/a»^'tf',

PAfMr-'V »./. [from
tAJNGi.E.
jrenjaii, Saxon,

bANE. n.f. [fa„e, ¥:tn<:h; fmwm, Latin.]

groundof alfec.

I

I'l'-'

•

lick,

The prayers ol priefts, nor times of

«"

mandate.
HbaLfpeart' s Hamht.
"'" ^"'^ Dacians, onward rulli
«,
L 'i'^","'"''
Withl" hall
the Ipeed, nor half fo fwift retreat
In chariots,/,/,^',/ with Icytbes, chey
fcour the fieldUnve through ourwtdg'd battalions with a
whirl,

U"fancyr< vathere's

He bade to open wide his braien gate.

-mca are to be
Evelyn's KalenJar.

inft.-uments of deftruftion. which
can Le
exercifcd in imitation of fangs.
My two fchoolfellows.

' Tis not
neceffity, but opiaion, that
makes men
miferable ; and when we com,:

no cure.

protuberant /r»gr of the

VK^Giv>.c,dj. lixomfang.] Furnifhed
wilh
fangs or long teeth ; fumilhed with any

1

]

A tefcmblance in humour or opinion, a fancy lor
the famebufiiicfs or divcrfion, is a
"?" OL 1 c
iC
r
c. Jn !>hai(fpcarf jt fignifies love.

could meet thatyiirrv«o«rp«-,

I

taken.

The

whofe imagination is unfaund ; one
whofc
diftemper is in his o.vn min \

Ufmg thofe thoughts which Ihould indeed have died
With them they think on ? Sbakcffiarc't Macbeth.
5. Inclination; Using ; fondnefs.

:s

tre.,ted like the tubcrofes.

would
give him fome gjod counfel
; for lieYcems to have the
quotidiaoofldve upon him.
Sbake/p
Fancysick adj. [fo„cj inA fki
One

Addifon

4. Inoage; conception; thought.
Hr»v now, my lord, why dv you keep alone
Ot fotritrtyiar/c/ yout compani.Mn rijkii^,

II

Addifn,

,

The n.iils; the talons.
Any (lioot or other thing by which hold

3.

There is a man haunts the &eft,
that abufes
our young plants with carving
Rofalind on their
harks ; hangs odes upon hawtl.orns,
and tiegics on
brambles i a*l, loriooth, deifying the
nan..- of Rofalind.

on th«

provoke the lion to the rage

*J'f'"'gi and daws, and, (looping from your horfe,
Rpvel the panting favage to the
ground.

m whatever manner Ihe pleafetli tofancy.

2.

The little ch.ipel called the Salutation is very neat,
and built with a fnxiyfjney.

1 hen charge,

tA NCYMONtSER. »./. [from/^/zy..] One
who deals in tricks ofimagination.

2.

fuftala

:

Ihe bulk; the bulk unprop'd, falls headlong

Raleigh
hard that the queen cannot demolilh

It IS a little

this towu

Bacon'sNatKralH,Jt.

Prepar'd to fly.

he took her from her hutband.

fpecls,

teeth,
as boars, pikes, f..U

The h\t\fang drove deep within his thigh.
And cut the nerves the nerves no more

h (Irongl,, as, negleaing all princely re-

"'diitv

From hope to fear, from joy to doubt :
Whom we now a goddcfs call,
Divinely grjc'd in every feature.
Strait's a delorm'J, a perjur'd creature
;
Love and bate are fancy all.
Granville.

Dryden

Ninus both admiring her judgment
and valour,
together with her perfon and
external beauty, fan-

as that of fenfe, yet there is other evidence which
giTc as full fatisfaaion, and as dear a conTiflion to
eur reafon.
Atttrbmj.

r-ay/„0',obcfo:

Shakeff. As you like If,
Some creatures have overloiig or outgrowing

which Kc call /,^^r or tulks;
mons, and dogs, though lefs.

;

All what we affirm, or what deny, and call

rr

fang,

Aiid chuil.m chiding of the
Wiutei's wind ;
Wr Inch, when it bites
and blows upon my body,
tv n 'till I (hrink with cold, I fmile
and fay

Who With ftretch'd pinions foars above the crowd
Who mighty thought can clothe with manly drefs.

Which itafon joining, or disjoining, frames

ir„ 1? . / „ , „

Here feel we but the penalty of Adam,
The feafon's difference; as tlie icy

But he whofc noble genius is allow'd.

She forms imaginations, airy Ihapcs,

that

mal by which the prey is feized and heldf
any thing like 'em.

himfeJf ; to imagine.

;

$. Something

i«(iiicr

To portray in the mind;

1.

Which the tive watchful fenfes reprefcut.

|«.oJ. and nourifi, not.

.W..V....U .IV

fancy than know, and are
not yet penetrated into the inlide and reality
of the
thing; but content oarfclvei with
what our imaginations funiilh us with.
Locke.
To F.^'nCY. -u. a,

'An many lefier faculties, that ferve
Reafon as chief: among ihckfa!:cy nert
Her office holds of all external things,

To death, or to a vow of fingle life.

FAN

— """^he.? n" f'rther man
than limiie
fimilel

*"*andV°^'.
metaphor, w:

In the foul

I

'"';'"''

-

,.

I

her.
JircniiaL.

Filled

with fancies or imaginatn;ns.

As I traveirj hither th.ough ih. land,
1

found the people llranseiy>„,^y„^.

Fa'.vtasm. „./.

[.See

Shakefh,

Ph ,ntasm.]

A

thing not real, but appearing to the
imag" nation,

Fanta'stIcal. "1 «,//. fantaJii^iie,Vtsnch ;,
[
Santa's TICK. J
horn fan tn/y.]
I. Irrational ;

bred only in the iiiiagination.
The deiijhi that a aian takes from laoiher's fin.

FAR

PAN
c«i be BstViiig elfc but 3. faniajikil, «wtem»hirjl
complicency, arifmg from thit wbith he rciilljr has
Somh.
no feeling of.
t. Snbfifting only in the fancy; imaginary.

By the

affcdioos.

gination.

2.

4.

In ancient time^ doth differ^r
Prior.

eft"eft_/i/r and

wide;

Through every field and foreftyiir and near.

Hubb,

Far be it from me to julliiy the cruelties ufed towards (hem, wiiicli had their reward fbori a.ter.
Hacon^i Holy l^ur.
He fent light horfemen iutoMcfopotatHia with a
guide, becaule.thc couutry was unto him bed known ;
following noifjr after himfelf with all his army.
KpioIUs.

And yet the liglits which in my tower do (hine.
Mine eyes, which view all objedb ni-^h and^r.
Look not.inlo this little world of mine.

Dainet.

God ha(h bid dwcliyirr otf all anxious cares.
And not molell us; unlcis weourfelvcs
Seek thtm with wand'ring thoughts,

aivl notions

vain.

Miltofi.

been hunting np and down, ^jr and near,
unhappy indi/pofitiony to find out a reL*Ejlrange.
medy.
The nationsyiir and near contend in choice.
And lend (he flaw'i of war bypublick voice. Dryden.
The painted lizard and (he birds of prey,
Foes of the frugal kind, \x-far away. Dryden's Virg.
I

!

h.rve

(ince your

But from the reading ot my book and me,
^eftr, ye foes of virtuous poetry
Wild fortune's fault upon the poor can throw.
Dryden.
Point at the tatter'd coat and ragged fhoe.
Far otf you view them with a longing eye
Dryden.
Upon the topmoft branch.
Thefe words arc fo far from eftablilhing any do-

He is fuperllitious grown of late.
Quite from the main opinion he held once
Otfanlafy, of dreams, and ceicmunies.
Staie/p.
Go you, and where you find a maid,
That ei'e (he ll^;p hath thrice her prayers faid,
Rein up the organs of her Ja»/afy,

!

*

Sleejp Ihe as found as carclcfs infancy.

l.acke.
minion, that we find quiic the cmlrary.
'Till on the Po his blalted corpfe was hurl'd,

F,ir liom his couiAry in lUc wsftern world.

J.

To a diftance.

Add'/.

This

a great height ; magnificently.

only in Hhakeffcai e.

1 do not think
So fair an outward, and fuch tlufT within.
Endows a njan but him.
Vou Ipeak himy^r.
1 don't extend him. Sir.
Sbakefp. Cimlcline,

To a certain point

all

Hooker.

And after that long ftrayed here and there.

How now, Horatio? you Irepible and look pale
Is not this fomcthing more iWinfantafyV Shukefp.
I talk of dreams.
Which arc the children of an idle braini
Begot of noihing but vain funtafy ;
Which is as thin of fubftance as the air.
And more unconrtant than the wind.
Sbale/p.

is

is perhaps

i^idncy.

rtates framing themfelves thereunto.

'I'o

t',

at a great diftnnce.

publilhed, itprefently takes

Tillotfun.

a more fuccjnfl language than the lt'a>>
French, or even than the Englilh,
whichj by reafon of its mouolyllables, 'n far the
molt compendious of them.
Dryjen,
The field is Ipacious 1 dcfign to fow.
With cxcn far unfit to draw the plough.
Drydeit^
Belides, he's lovely yir above the rclt.
With you immortal, and with beauty blclf.
Pope,
Ah hope not yet to bicathe thy native air;
Far other journey fiiit deittands tjiy care.
Pope,
Latin

In a kingdom rightly ordered, after a law is once

the power of ima-

.

to be proved.
lian, Spanilh,

!

friends arteflion cither ceafcd or prevailed

NCY.

any^a V> the heart, where all aH'cCUoUD dwell Djivu s.

:

He meant to travel into fur countries, until his

/W-

Shaktfpiare.
"niefc fpirils of fenfe, in fanlafy't high court,
Judge of the lorms of objects, ill or well
And fo ihcy fend a good or ill report

From what our riery battles are.
ff'a/ler^
Of negatives we hivifar the leaft certainty, and
they ate ulually hardcit, and many ^mes impolfible

my lord, as will fill up the tim«

Remotely ;

jlactr..

The face of war.

'Twixt ttis *nd fupper.
Shjkefp. Macbeth.
Par from that hated face the Trojans fly ;
Dryden.
All but thi fool wlio ibughtiiis delliiiy.

<J>«>Tao-i'«.J
;

ol the old world.

Is \ifar you ride ?

.\>Jisr,

.

the' water than air.
Bacon* s Natural hifl^ry^
Thofe countries have ^jr greater rivers, Ami /ar
hijher mountains to pour down waters, ihon anv part

Be fatlious for redrefs of all thefe griefs,

Caprice ; unfteadinefs.

See F

This is

And I will fet this foot of mine xfar
As who goes tirthell.
Sbakcfp. "Juliui Cecfar.

Conceit with it, by having convinced himof \\\zjunlUkt/an, i'ref.
taJUcahf/i of it.

Fancy ; imagination

Prior.

To a great extent every way.

w

Prvf -au. 10.

iiuch a communication paffeth^jr better through

To a great diftance progreffively.

fancV.
2. VVhimficalncfs ; unrcafonablenefs.
\ d.ire not alTumc to m.felf to hiv; put him out bf

gining.

VVlio can find a viituous woman? for her price

yir above rubies.

From the fame lineage ftern /Extes came,
Thcyjr-lam'd brothcrof th'enchantrefs dame.Pi/f.

FAt.TA'£TICALN ESS. J n.f, [ffOm /aH/rt///Fanta'sticknkss. J
cal.\
1. HumouroufneA J mere compliance wi.th

I.

ufed it abfolutely.

Corruption, difcord, luxury conibin'd,
Dau:n funk theyi/r-fam'd milirefs of mankind.
Arbuthnot.

One cannot fo much nfantetfiically chufc, even
Grevj^i Ctfmol.
or odd, he thinks not why.

;

[peon, Saxon ; fntt, Erfe.]

Then wilh ill-gotten gold (he bought a lord

nation.

;

j^idves»

by many degrees.
It is commonly ufed with fome word
noting the comparative, but Dryden has

7. In a great proportion ;

they fay,
Sbakcfp.

Left wrathful the yar-lliooting god emit.
His fatal arrows.

—

thenar dettroyjng dart.

When they were by Jebus the day viisfar laent.

With coltly cates Rome ftain'd her frugal board;

Capricioiifty : huinouroufly ; unfteadjjy.
England is fo idly king'd.

tafin, I^atin

as

To a litlc riv'let 1 prefer.

3.

>

6. In a great part.

lefs proper.
Vaft and great
Is what 1 love; tJie /ir extended ocean

Fanta'stically. ndv. [from /aatafika/.]
I. By the power of imagination.

3.

was,

Pay Taci'cd revVencc to Apollo's fon^

they fet upon their
coins, witliout any regard to the metal of which
AHJifcn.
they are compofed*

FA'NTA^Y. //./. [/<7///^rV, French

It feems to

To great extent in length.

tajlicat in the diiFcrcnt prices

'

liiur'd to blood ;

and being f,tp. Sir,

FAR. atl'v.

Taller.

Her fceptre fo funtafi'ically bornCj
By a vain, giddy, (liallow, humourous youthj
Hhakcf^cure' i HenryV
That fear attends her not.
2, Whimfically ; in compliance with imagi-

Burirel't Tlteary,

A lion's hide around his lojos he wore
The well poiz'd javelin to the field he bore,

And the bell weapon, an undaunted beart. Addifon.

cilliiered.

fantafiical mind-infeded people, that children and
Sidny.
muficians call lovers.
I'll knit it up in filken ftring<r,
With twenty odd conceited true love knots
To ie fantajlick, may become .i youth
Of gre.iter time than 1. Shakcff. T-wo Gent. ofVer.
Duumvir is provided with an imperious, expenUve,
vtii faHtaJlick miHicfs; to whom he retires from
the converfalion of a difcreet and affedlionate wife.

1.

ff^'iiig.

have Deen a cant word in rhe ump of
Shake/pcare
The gentleman had drunk himfclf out of hisjfive

1

We are apt to think your medallifts a littlc^jw-

I

«./.

Fa p. oiii. Fuddled; drunk.

fenfes ;

R.i/r<g*.

But all in vain which when he faw, he ceat'd
Conteniirg, and rem;>v'd his lcnt_/ir off.
Millar;.
I
had always a curiofity to look back iuio (he
fources of things, and view in my mind, io far as I
was able, the beginning and progtclj of a riling wcrld.

[Sec Phantom.] Something not real, out appearing to the ima-

blc forms occafionally.
Arc yc faxtajlical, or that indeed

Prior.
Vrom .tiiy turn of heryij«/<j/?/V'i wliecl.
3. Whimfical ; fanciful ; capricious ; humourous J indulgent of one's own imagination.
They put fuch words in the mouths of one of tiicfe

Huhberi.

.

extraordinary rweUtioni of trath, when indeed they
do but dream dreams, and amufc themfelvcs with
itit famaftick ideas of a bufy imagination.

diflicuU enlcrprifes widifiht a

condudtor.

I would wilh th;it both you and othors would ceafe
from dra^ring the Scriptures to your /.inuJLs and

Fa'ntom.

Neither did thofe thet were fent, and tratciied

fat off, undertake fo

Humour, inclination.

3.

At Jbr as the Eaft is fra« the Weft, fo fjr\\»\)i
he removed our tranfgrefTions from him. Pf. cuu iz.

NexxHttr:.

Challc ladies ears v>fantajiet impure.

;

Nor happincl; can I, nar mifery feel,

a

Idea; image of the mind.
And with the fug'ry fweet thereof allure,

Men are fo poffeffed with their owa fa«cies, that
^cy talce them for oracles and ^re arrived to fome

Shalefp. Aljcirth.
Which outwardly ye (hew?
4. Uncertain; unfteady ; irregular.

in

colotir'j

are not there.

z.

P-.dfent fcati

Dccayof Piety.
3. Unreal ; apparent only ; having the nature of phantoms which only afTume vifi-

r AR

of fanlafy «e fee

dream, or a mad man lees things beiorc him which

•

Arc Icfs than horrible imaginir.gs
My thought, whofe murthcr yet is \>ut/anla/li\;if.
Shakes fo my finglc ftiteof man, that funAion
IsfmotherM infurmilci and nothing is.
Hhakeffiarr's Macbeth.
But what is not.

Jicifrcr

9.

;

to a certain degree.

The fubllance or the fcrvicc of Cod, -^o fur for(h
as jt hath in

it

any thing more than the law

doth teach,

as

ami-n^ll the heathen;

It is

*>t*

may not be invented of men,

i-ealbn

but mull be received

itaax God himfelf.

Hookir,

Aiif.'.er them

Howyijr forth you do like their articles. Sbjkeftt,
No( to refolvc, is to relblve ; and many times it
breeds as many neeeirities, and cngagcth
fome other fort, as to rcfulve.

Of

far it is

afar in

Bacon.
need not many words to declare how
from being fo much as any part of lepent-

thjs

I

Hammond,

ancc.

My difcoui'fe is (o fur from being equivalent 10the pofit on he mentions, that it is a perfect outra'
"Tillotfm.
diction to it.
The cuilom of thefe tongues iomeiimes fo^ar in-

Hucnccs the expredions, that in tliclc epiftles one
njay obfcrvc the force of the Hebrew conjug;i(ions.
f^mie on St. Paul's Epifllcl.

Far qJ'; at a great diftance.
For thot.^h I ficd him angiy, yet recall *d
I'o lifcproiong*d, and ['lomii'd race, I now
C/Iadlyochold, though but his ntmod (kins

10.

.

Of glory, andyjr <jy his llcps adorq.
F.\R<!^ To a great tjiftaoce.

Milloaj;

11.

Cherubic watch, and of a fvvurd (he flame
Wide-waving, all approach y.'ir off \o fright.

And guard all palTage to the tree of life.
Milton,
0^'is joined with /«r, when _/fl)- noting
diftance, is not followed by a piepoiition
as, IJet the boat far oW,I/et the boat
far from ine,

12.

:

I

3.

Far

TAR

FAR

'^ Fa* It often ufed in corapoCtion

i

founder,

or it Icaft
yirw;^ of that fable.

-fa rfhaoUiig, farfecing .

FaR-Fe'tCH. ;/,/. {fry-vadifetch.l Adccp
ftratagem,
A ludicrous word.
But Jefuits have deeper reaches.

i.

In all iheir ^\a\t\ifarfetchc!\
And from ihcir Copticic prieft, KircheruJi
Found out this mjiVick way to jeer us. Hudl&rdi.

Farce,

And bravely fought where fouthern lUrs arife;

We trac'd liie/arfttch'd gold into the mine.

ceits.
tohich is out of nature; for t farce

Th' eternal columns which on earth he rears,
End in the Ihrry vault and prop the fphercs.
Pof>e.
Far-shooting, adj. [/anai/boot.] Shooting to a great diftance.
Thenlouii he call'djEneas thrice by name;
TTie loud repeated voice to glad
came;
Great /ore he faid, and thcyjr/iM)ri>^ god,
In.'pirc thy miadio make th;r cbalienge guod. Dryd.

Fa'rcical.

adj.

Diftant ; remote.

Mark,
But wc mud beg our bread in climes unknown,

French.]

;

Call forth the tender grafs and budding flow'r.

Then, at the lad, produce in open air
Both Hocks, and fend them to their furamer's/iw.
"
DrydeA.
„.,...,
This IS what nature's want may well fufficc;

a little pack.
is

that in thh fardii

will make him fcratch his beard.

Sbakrfpeare.

Who vouM fardeli bear.
To groan and fweat under a weary life?
To FARE. -v. ». [papan, Saxon;
1.

He that would more is covetous, not wife:
Butfince among mankind fo few there are.

Siakef.

Who will conform to philofophicky^ie,

•varex,

This much I will indulge thee for thy eafe.
And mingle fomcthingof our times topleafe. Dryd.
Upon his riling up he ordered the pealant to fet
befijre him whatever food he hid in his houfc
the. ^
peafant brought out a great deal of coarli /»-<•, of
which the emperor cat very heai lily.
Addifon:

heav'd their hearts.

thofe who go and thofe who are left.]

Fairy Queen.

H'aller.

So in this throng bright SacharilTa/ar V,
Opfrels'd by thofe who drove to be her guard
As (1-ips, though never fo obfequious, fall
Foul in a (cmp;;l on their admiral.

fValler.

I'arevMJI, {.•y% he; the parting found fcarce fell

from his faint lips, but (lie replied yjr<7tW/.

Is bruii'd and beaten to and fro.

And knows not which to turn him to;
Sofir'dihe knight between two foes.
And knew n^t which of ihcra t' oppofe
I f

O t]ucen,_/jrtTtT/// be (bll polTeft

you do as 1 do, you. may
ay fart
1
fare as \fare,

of fcparation witlioutkindncfs.
Farewell the jeir, which thrcateu'd fo
Tlic faired light the world can fhnw.
Tre.'.ding the path to nobler ends,
tongfaretijc/l to love I gave
Refolv'd my country and my friends
All that rcmain'd of mc (hould have.

Hnglilh miiiiders nevtr fare fo well ai in a time
of war with a foreign power, which diverts the pri-

'^"Jt'

vate (euds and aniiiiolitics of the nation.
AddijM.
Some are comforted that it will be a common

farcir.

calamity, anrf they (hallyiireno worfe than their

French.]

iicijhhour,.

pretended

2. It is fometimcs ufed only as an expreffioa

L'Ejlrange.

Arc for to be made of and counted full dear;
For now is the lofs of ihc/jrof the fow
More great tlian the lofs of two calves of the cow.

•

'i"o

'

Dryil.

Of dear remembrance, bleflTiiig dill and bleft! Pope.
Httdihras.

Thus/arcx the queen, and thu» her fury blows
Amidftuhc crowd.
Dryden't^n.

year.

'

And navrfarrweU, involv'd in (hades of night,
tor ever 1 am ravilh'd from thy fight.
Dryden.

Vawam.
But at a barqne', that, in fou! weather,
Tofs'd by two advcrfe winds together.

Drydrn.
J-ar. «./. [contraacd from/jrr<nt;.] The
offspring of a fow ; young pigs.

•

For ever, and for ttnt^Jaretvcll, CalCuj.
Shakefiu
Be not amazed, call ail your feofcs to you; defend yjur reputaliou, or biU fureuell to your good
life forever.
Sbaktfpeare.
An iron (lumber (huts my fwlmmingeyes;

:

So/»»« the dag among th' enraged hounds
Repels their force, and wounds returns foe wounds.

The nations yir and nearccntet'd in choice.

VVreOIing l« > pamme which either the
Cornini-

Butyjrf •!«//, kin£; (ith thus thou will appear.
Freedom lives hence, and binilhment is heie. Shak.
Whether wc (hall meet again, 1 know not.
There fore our evcrladingy^iri-uv // take ;

WcU/arr the hand, which to our humble (ight
PsefeotJ that beauty.

The parting compliment.; adieu.

1.

A dubbom heart tniWfare evil at the lad. Ecclef.

_

firft

Pope.

To be in any ftate good or bad.
So bids ihce well to/j« thy nether friend.

It is often not eafy to diftinguilh whether it be adjeftive or adverb ; as.

To fluff; to fill with mingled ingt^di-

the imperative of" the verb farexvell, or ;
fare you tuell; fisfelix, alii in bonum remt
or bene fit tihi; but in time ufe familiarifed it to an adverb, and it is ufed both by

j

Otill

2.

No true Egyptian ever knew in horfes
The/jr fide from the near.
Vrydtn'i CUoaexex.

;

Farewe'll. ad-v. ['] his word is originally

O'tdcn.
Milton' , Paradife Loft-.
_ Sadly lhey//rV along the fea-beat (hore

the right fide of the horfe, which the rider
turns from him when he mounts.

•-

:

Fairy Qu.

Hisfpirits pure were fubje£l to outfight,

in horfemandiip,

f
To Farce, v. a. [farcJe, Lat'in

to pafs ; to travel.
;
At lad, refolving forward ftillto/rrr.

Like to a man in (hew and (hape hafared. Fairfax.
So on hc_/iri-,, and to the border comes

Drul. inii. 49.

Sows, ready to farrow at this lime of the

To go

Until <he bluft'ring dorm i, overblown.

The Lordlhall bring a nation againft thee/rom

Vol.. J.

A bundle

Let us to the king: there

provifions.

But come, fo^vell refrelh'J, now let us play,
A» meet is, after fuch deliciousyir<r.
Miltoit.
But when the weftern winds with vital pow'r

Italian;

.

In this fenfe it is ufed dliptically for afar, or remote place.

dcnred frca Cariaeuj, their

[farciita,

Food prepared for the table;

2.

Fa'rdel. n.f. [fardello.ltzWin; fardcau,

From Fak.

Ben

n. f.

'

He palTage begs with unregarded pray'r.
And wants two farthings to difchargc h'isfjre. Dryd.

farcin,
French.]
The leprofy of horfes. It is
probably curable by antimony.

And fooie to fjr Oaiis ihall be fold.
To try the L)bian heat, or Scythian cold. Drydcn.
3. It was formerly ufed not only as an adverb but un adjeftive, with off.

I.

Belonging

They deny the charatiers to \x fariical, becaufe
they are actually in nature.
Gay.

beneath the fcorchingot the freezing zone;

Thefe things feem fmall and undittinguirtiable,
Like/jr 0^ mountains turned into clouds. Sbjkr/p.
Il we may b-liold in any creature any one fpark
•f that eternal nre, or any/»r o^ dawning of God's
glorious btigUlnefs, the fame in the beauty, motion,
and virtue of this light may be perceived. Rji-iih.

Price of paflage in a vehicle by land or
by water. Ufed only of that which i$

He found a (hip going to Tarftnlh ; fo he pa'd
the_/are thereof, and went down into it to go vA\h.
them unto Tarfhilh.
jo„.

Dutch.]

A man taking j^ar journey.

J.

[fromyaw.]

adj.

yulgar Errourt,

paid for the perfou, not the eoods.

to a farce ; appropriated to a farce.

^nc«

Remoter of the two;

1.

Fa'rcy.

The wonders of the deep expanded lie

Jl/r, from the end of the earth.

blance of this.

I/roivn's

irregularity of the plot (hould ani'wer to the extra, jgance of the charafleni, which they fay this piece
wants, and therefore is nn farce.
Cay.

and fierce.]
Suiking, or penetrating a great way.

Far,

Fare. n.f. [from the verb.]

What (hould be great, you turn w farce. frior.
They objeil againft it -as a farce, becaufe the

[far

Atlas, her lire, to vihok/arfiercing eye

Shakfpcarr'sTimoit,
Men think they h^vc fired hardly, if, in times
of extremity, they have dcfccnded fo low as to eat
dogs; bdt Galen delivereih, that, young, fat, and
gelded, they were the food of many nations.

grotefcjue is in a piifture: the perfons and
adtions of a f.irce are all unnatural, and the manners falfe ; that is, inconfilient w ith the clurafteis
of mankind: grotef^ue painting is the juit refem-

Drydrn': Dtfrfnoy.

South.

to eat; to be entertained witli

Kead your ears with the mufick awhile, if they
vtiUfare fo harlhly as on the trumpet's found.

which

Cgnify different ideas by a fort of an unaccountable

;

fare with

The rich man_/ji(-i/fumptuoully everyday. Luke.

that in poetry

ts

To feed

w'li]

food.

There is yet a lower (brt of poetry and painting,

farfeuhed analogy, or diflant refamblance, that fancy

adj.

5.

or from

and (luffed with wild and ludicrous con-

Far-piercin-c.

and then we (hall fee how it
thehand.

Shaiefp,

[from the verb;

with

in an imperfonal form.

killed,

A

DryJix.
t. Studionfly foDght ; elaborately ftrained
not eafily or naturally introduced.
York, with all hisjl:r/ctci'j policy.
Sbakefp,
VaTfur.Jctcbed rhymes make puzzled angels ftrain.
And inlow pTofeduIl Lucifer complain.
Smith.
Under this heai we may raak ihofc words which

4.

n. f.

Milton.
:

When the hand finds itfelf wdl warmed and covered, let it rcfufe the trouble of feeding the mouth,
or guarding the head, 'till the body be darved
or

to fwell out.

farcer, French, to raock.]
dramatick
reprefentation written without regularity,

And tliat which brib'il our fathers made our prize.

J.

;

To happen to any one well or ill
// preceding

Hf. Sandtrfon.

Thcyrfiff^/ title running 'lore the kir,g.

Brought from places remote.
Of thefe things others quickly will difpofe.

has Introduced ben.veen on« thing and another; as
when we fay, the meat is green when it is half
loaded.
H'atti.

4.

The entcrlilTu'd robe of gold and pearl,

Whore pains have earn'd ihe/jrjetci'ilfpoW. ASltom
By his command ne boldly crofs'd the line,

I.

To extend

it

'Tisnot the balm, the fceptre, and the ball,
The fword, the mace, the ciown imperial,

FAR-FtTCHED. adj. \ far znd fftci.}
I.

FAR
So/ic« it when with truth falfehood contends;

miniftrcj fome ftulF to the
Carciv.
The firll principles of Chriflian religion (hould
not be/arctd witlj ichool points and private tenets.

81,

A

5.

Its original verbal

IfaUer.

meaning is prefervcJ

when it is ufed pluraljy.

S-wift.

proceed in any train of confequeaces

Farewell, madcr Silence: I will not ufe many
words with you; fare you tvell, gentlemen, both.

good or bad.
'V\\<i\tfareib when too Jnucli defire of contradiaioi, .cauleth oar i>set;he» (.tlicr to
fait b/ nimber
thag to lUy for weijht.
Hatiktr.

'

ff'aUer.

Sbakefpeare'i Henry IV,

Farewe'll.
1-

tt.f.

Leave; aft of departure.

•

FAR

FAS

TARRA'GO, n.f. [Latin.] A mafs fofmecl
confufedly of fcveral ingredients; a med-

FAiwHEiiMoie. ad-v^ [more properly ^n.

FA R
Set how the mornirf opes her goUen ptes,'
Sbai.
Aixi nke« hcr/jreiae/l of the glorious fun.

chmce the radiant fun Wnh /•irrwtlt fweet,

I f

ExienS his ev'ning beam, the tieUs revive,
Milton.

Atteft their joy, that hill and valley ring.

As in this grove I took my \iHfarnvell,
DryJrit.

As on this very fpot of earth 1 fell.
Before I take

riut,
1.

my /arnve/l of this fubjeO, I (hall

Adijfon.
mote plainly.
2. It IS fometitnes ufed as an adjeftive
leave-taking.
Several ingenious writen, who have takeii their
leave of the publick in farctvell papers, will not
five over fo, but intend to appear again j though
perhaps under another form, and with a difftrent

SpeHalor.

f

ARIna'ceous. adj. [from yrtw/a, Latin.]
Wealy; tailing like meal or flower of corn.
The propereft food of the vegetable kingdom for
mankind is taken from the farinaceous or mealy
as oats, barley,

feeds of fome culmiferous plants ;
wheat, rice, rye, maize, panick, and millet.
Arbuibnot on Alimenli.

FARM. »./. [ffrme, French

Feopm, pro-

;

A fluoer of horfes.

paying part of the profit to the owner or
landlord.
Touching their particular complaint for reducing
lands tni farms to the.r ancient rents, it could not
Hajrwaril.
be done without a parliament.
2. The ftate of lands let out to the culture

of tenants.
The lords of land in Ireland do not ufe to fet out
term •f years, to their te«
Hants; but only from year to year, and fome during
Sfcnfer on Ltland.
fleafure.

their land in farm, for

great wilfulnefs in landlords to
longeryiirOTj unto their tenants.
is

make any
Sftnfn.

{Te

Farm. v. a. [from the noun.]

1.

To let out to tenants at a certain rent.
We are enforc'd to farm our royal realm.

you are a piece of a farriir, as every groom
ought to be, get fack, or Itrong-bttr to rub your

Shakcfftare't Richard 11.

They received of the bankers fcant twenty (hillings for thirty, which the Earl of ComwaliyirM^^
of the king.

To Fa'rrier. i<. n. [from the noun.] To
pradife phyfick or chirurgery on horfes.
There are many pretenders to the art oifarriering
and cowleeching, yet many of them are very ignorant.

Fa'rmer. »./.

SLakefpearc't Machtlb.

Her nine/dmm>.
-v.

a.

To bring pigs.

It

is

ufed only of fwine.

The fwine, although multiparous, yet being
fulcous,

and only cloven-hoofed,

\i

See Farther.
1

At the greateft diftance.

2.

To the greateft diftance.

Fa'rthest. adj. Moft diftant; remotefti
Vet it muft be withal conCdered, that thegreatelt
world are they which be fartheft frota

part of the
perfeflion.

Wind from

behind.

there

thou

might'ft behold the great imaje of authority ; a
Sbakeffeare.
dog's obeyed in office.

cultivates ground,

whether

his own or another's.
Nothing is of greater prejudice to iht famitr thtn
the llocjcing of hi> land with cattle larger than it
Moriimtr't Hii/bandry
will bear.

Fa'^most. »./. [fuperlativeofyir.] Moft

Love is \\itfart

As when we a a gun difchai^e.
Although the bore be ne'er fo large.
Before the flame from muzzle buc(t,

Curcv.;

Farra'cinoos. adj. [ixom farrago, Im.^
Farmed of different materials.
Being a confufion of knaves and foots, and a
fjrmgmcui concurrence of all conditions, tempers,
letes, and ages, it is but natural if their determinations be monftrous, and many ways inconfifteiit
Broiim't yulgar Errours.
with trAh.

ha farthing is in ftruSure fpent.

_

Sii'ift.

Drydesn

Not in ufe.

Thirty acres make a Jarthing-UnA ; nine farthings a Corniih acre; and fbur Cornifti acres »
Carev.
knight's fee.

Fa'rthingale. n.f. [This word has much
exercifcd the etymology of Skinner,^ who
at bft feems to determine that it is derived from 'vertu garde : if he had confi-

of far; but by no analogy an far make

Dutch, he
might have found out the true fenfe.]
A hoop circles of whalebone ufed to
fpread the petticoat to a wide circum-

fidcred what -vert fignifies in

;

ference.

being firft confounded in fpeech, and afterwards in books. ] At a greater diftance
to a greater diftance; more remotely ; beyond; moreover.
To make a perfeft judgment of good piftures,
when compared with one another, befidcs lulcs,

With filken coats, and caps, and golden rings.
With rufTs, and cuffs, md farthingales and things.

there \s farther required a long converfalioii with ilic

Ihdiiras.
Round tabic, like xfartbingal.
Some will have it that it portends the downfal of

Drydin's Dufrtfnoy.
themfelves with the opiuions,
without lookcountry,
their
falhions, and things of

beft pieces.

They contented

Loclie.

[fuppofed from /ar, more
from forth, and to be written

adj.

further. J
1.

moft number of able hands to fight.

not worth ayar//t;>/^; oc

rally confidered as the comparative degree

probably

Tfceir neamefs on all quarters to the enemy, and
ibtXt farntf Irom timely fuccour by their friends,
have forced the commanders to call forth the utter-

it is

Fa'rther. adv. [This word is now gene-

Fa'rther.

motenefs.

as,

4. A kind of divifion of land.

my

A fpacious cave, within its^fwo^part.
Diftance; rc-

lical :

•Till the

Juft at the breech it fiallies firft;
lord his palTion broke.
So from

Was hew'd and fartiion'd by laborious art,
Fa'rness. »./. [from/ar.]

Gay.
Feed on the filver, and give us thcfrrtings.
3. It is ufed fometimes in a fcnfe hyperboproverbial.
His fon builds on, and never is content,

wind behind.

didant; remotcft.
Drydm't Mn.

S^ft.

Copper money.
The pari(h find, 'tis true; but our churchwardens

Of every heart;
It pains a man when 'tis kept clofe ;
And others doth ofTend, when 'tis letloofe. Sucillnr.
To Fart. -v. a. [from the noun.] To break

ing M\y farther.

Through the hill's hollow fides.

J

2.

farther, forlheji, pop'Sop, pup'Sep, Saxon;
and a, by refemblance ot found,
the

Thou haft feen a farmtr'i dog bark at a beggar,

h. farthing is the leift denomination or fndloik
Cocker's Arithmetick.
of money uied in England.
Elfe all thofe things we toil fo hard in,
Prior.
Would not avail one i\n%\e farthing.
You are not obliged to take money not of gold 01
filver
not the halfpence otftrthingt of England.

Bro'wn.
open eyes, as other bifulcous animals.
Ev'nher, who did her numerous offspring boaft,
As fair and fruitful as the fow that carry'd.
The thirty pigs at one large litter /aiTcitu'rf. Dryden.

nearer the true, and that we ought to
write further and furthej}, from forth,

knd the creature run from the cur:

Engliih coin.

bi-

or from

[/frwtfr, French ;

Honker.

peopep, four, that is, the fourth part of a
penny.]
the froalleit
1. The fourth of a penny;

farrowed with

FART. «./. [pent, Saxon.]

^/<'^!^

Fa'rth EST. ad-v. [mote properly furtheji.]

Fa'rth I NO. n.f. [peopSlini, Saxon, from

Pour in fow's blood tliat hath litter'd

farther ot fartlxfi : it is therefore probathat the ancient orthography was
ble,

1. One who cultivates hired ground.

One who

A litter

Otmden's Remains.

farm,'\

2.

He hii fartbereJ orhinaered the taking of the
town.

Atorlimer,

Fa'rrow. n. /. [F'iaph, Saxon.]
of pigs.

To cultivate land.

3.

Sivift.

horfes.

To take at a certain rate.

2.

vance.

1f

He farted firft and then lie fpokc.

The revenue whereof (hall furnifli us
For our affairs in hand.

,

Sows ready to/iirrot^ thistimeof theyear. tujfer.

Ground let to a tenant; ground cultivated by another man upon condition of

It

•D/jiy.

'

To Fa'rrow.

Ralcigb' sBiJlary.

the meantft.

To Fa'rth er. 1'. a. [more proper To fur/her.] To promote; to facilitate ; toad»

One who profefles the medicine of horfes.

vifion, Saxon.]
X.

free,

men.
2.

Farthermore the leaien, body, and boughs of thW
by fo much exceed all other plants, as the
greateft men of power and wordly ability furpaft

[firrier.Ytcachiffrra'

Latin.]

But the utmoft etaOnefs in thefe particulars belong to farriers, fadlers, f^iiths, and other tradef-

advife the author for the futuie to fpeak his meaning

title.

wife.

FA'RRIER. n.f.

The birds their notes renew, and bleating herds

Befides ; over and above ; like-

thermore,']

ley.

Let me add a farther trxnh, that without ties of
1 have a particular inclination to honour
Drydtn.
you.

tending to greater diftance.

^fon out farther way the fates allow,
Here mult we fix on high the golden bough. Dryden.

Fa'rtherance. n.f. [more properly //rfrom further.}
promotion.

Sbakfpeare,
Arthur wore In hall

the French king; and obferve, that tht farthingaie
appeared in England a litUe before the ruin of tht
AdSfat.
Spanilh monarchy.
S:ie feems a medley of all ages.
her
fuftian
fluff,
10
fwell
With a hu%c farihirrgale

Encouragement;

That was the foundation of the learning

1

have,

and of alUhe_/iirli/><i«<that 1 have obtained.
jtfcbam's Scboeimajicr

Swift.

A new commode, a topknot and a ruff.
I

gratitude,

theravce

Whatcompafs will you wear -par farthinrtie f

Fa'r TH N

More remote.

2. I-onger ;

Shakeffearr.
Tell me,

ivorth.]

sworth

.

». /.

[farthing and

As much as is fold for a farthing.

They are thy cuftomer?

;

1

ifarthingfvxrth of any thing.

hardly ever fell ihcin
Arbutbr.ji.

Rods
V. f. [Latin.]
carried before the confuls as a

FA'SCES.

anciently

mark of

their authority.

The duke beheld, like Scipio, with difdain.
That Carthage, which he ruin'd, rife once more;

And (hook aloft the/<i/f« of the main,
To fi-ilht tiiole ilavei with what they felt befo«.
Drydem.

FJ'SCJjl.

•

FAS

F A S
FA'SCIA. *./. [L«tin.] A fillet 5 a bandage.
Fa'sciathd. cJJ. [from fa/da.]
Bound

Three

of fafcintion,

together with that f.tJhiQii of life

have the worthies of our proleffioo «omme?>ded

to

To bewitch

;

Ifafelno, Latin.]

power or aft of bewitcning; enchantment nnfeen inexplicable influence.
;

He had fuch a crafty and bewitching falhion,
both to move pity and to induce belief, as was like
a kind oifajcinatian and enchantment to thofe that
iaw him or heard him.
Bacon.
The Tarks hang old raga, or fuch like ugly things,
upon their faireft horfes, and other goodly crea-

as fuccefsfuDy as the generals of our times do with

with thcjci/blo/rs, and full of windgallt.

regard to its outward appearance.
They prciend ihemfclvts grieved at our folemnii«s in ercihng churches, at iheir form and _/i/!li<.»t,
II the ftatelincli of there and coftlinefs, and at the
•pinion which we have of thera.
llooktr.
1\it/>ifiim of his countenance was altered. Lute,
Sian^ ihefe poor people's friend.
•—I will,
Orlet me loo(ethe/i/l(Mofa man.
Siate/f.

1 he make or cut of cloaths.
be at charges for a looking-glafs.

And entertain a fcore or two of taylors,

To auiy fa/ihns to adorn my body,

Sbakr/p.
You, fir, 1 entertain for one of my hundred only,
;
I do not like \hzfajhhn of your
garments. Sbatejp.

all

A different toil another forge employs.

images in churches ; and that in fuch unfeafonable and unfeafontd fajkhn, as if it bad
keen done

U/aJhion'd for the journey, dull and heavy.
'I

Fast.
I.

3.

Hrre's the note
Wow mufhy^ur chain weighs to the utmoftcarar,
IhefinentCiofthegold, the chargeful/«/?./c«.
Hbakejpeare.

Cuftom; general prafttce.
Zelmene again, with great admiration, begun
to

himr afltmg whether it were \ht fajh,„n

m Arcadia, ikaf ftiepherds (houW perform
i/rf/rry

truth of this bath been univerfally
Jckoowledged, jtt btcaufe i^tfafiUn of the
age li

To counterfeit.
It better fits

Sbak. Hen. VIU.

Not ufed.

my blood to be difdained oS all, than

To make according to the rule prefcribed

by cuftom.
The value of the labour employed about one parcel
of filver more than another, makes a difference in
their price; and thut /j/bitiud flite fells for more
than its weight.
Locke.

Fa'sh ION ABLE. adj. \Uom fofiion .'\
I. Approved b^ cuftom;
cftablifhcd by
cuftom ; modifti.
The eminence of your condition will invite gentlemen to the ftudy of suture, aodinike philofophy
fujllivalte,

GUn-ville.

Shtkejf.

»./. [from the verb.]

Abftincnce from food.
A thoufand men have broke their_/ijfj to-day,
That ne'er (hall dine, unlefs thou yield the crown.
Slakefp.

NurtaOed, nor had apjelite;

ihat^.j/?

To virtue 1 impute net, or count part
Of what I fuBer here.

Milton,

Happy and innocent vicre the

ages of our fore,
fathers, who broke their fafti with
herbs an4
roots J and when they were permitted flefli, eat it
only drcfled with hunger and fire.
^faylor.

Shak.

Xofajhhn 3 carriage to rob love from any. - Shakefp.
4.

men Xnfjjl. Matt.su

Where will th:s end ? Four times ten days I've pafs'd,
Wand'iing (hit woody maic, and human fpod

She's gone unkindly, and refus'd tocaft

hii cardinal,

Wii/ajhioti'd to much honour from his cr.idle.

Hayivard.

operating upon drefs, or any
domeftick ornaments.

Though the

When \\\e>v fjjiejl, anoint thy head and wa(h thy
face, that thou appear not unto

One glance to feed me for fo long ifujl-

Though from an humble flock undoubtedly,

4. Cuftoin

tiK-h valorous cnierprijej >

nence.

Yourfelves thereto, according to occafion. Huhb.Tale.
Nature, as it grows again tow'rdi earth,

•11

fpeak of
•r no,

which taken by men enable ihem to fall long after.
Bacon^s Nevj Atlanril,
2. To mortify the body by religious abiti.

Ne do, I doubt, but that ye well ciafu/hion

Pluck Cifca by the lleeve.

had rather fuji from all lour days ihaii drink fo
Shakefpeare^i Antony and C/enpatra,^.

We have fome meals, and breads, and drinlct,

Laws ought to \xfaJh!oned unto the manners and
conditions of the people to whom they are meant,
and not to be impofed upon them according 10 the
fimple rule of right.
ftpenfer.

And he wi!l, after his imxfajhhn, tell you
What hath proeeeded. Sbak.fpeare'i 'Jultut C^far.
The commiflionert either pulled down or delaced

,

1

much in one.

Here the loud hammery<j/J »>ij female toys
Each trinket that adorns th^ modem dame,
Firrt to thefe little artilts ow'd its frame. Gay'i Fan.
I. To fit ; to adapt ; to accommodate.

checks, rebukes, and manners,

in hoftility againft them.

Anifaji it fairly out. Shakefp. Tarn. cftheSbrexu.

\fafi, and pray'd for ihcir intelligence.

And raife a beauteous world of fuch extent ; Blackm.

Imuft advance. Sbaiefb, Merry fi'ivet 0/ lyinJhr.

f.

Our love is not fo great Hortenfio,
But we may blow our nails together,

Laft night the very god Ihew'd me a vilion :

knifajbian'd, by a maker brute and blind
;
Could it of art fuch miracles invent?

For that I loveyour daughter
In fuch a i\ih^eoynfaJhl(,n as I do,

-

Saxon.]
To aUlain from food.

1

How could this nolle fabrick be defign'd,

Manner; fort; way.

_

to figure.

ilfajhioned in the clouds, which foon after Ihould
fwallow up all living creatures.
Raleigh.
The rib he form'd inifa/thn'dmilh his hands :
Under his forming hands a creature grew,
Man like, but ditftrent fex. MiltoH't Paradife Lo/I.
Inabilitv will every one find in himfeK, who
(hall go about to _/J^/cn in his underftanding any
fiiTiple idea, not received by his fenfes from external
objefls, or by reflexion from the operations of his
jnind about them.
Licit.

make; ftate of any thing with

Perforce againft

;

The gravesof the rebellious generations were alrea-

liltin.]

3.

To form; to mould

Fa'shionist. »./. [irom fo/hioji.'\ A follower of the mode ; a fop ; a coxcomb.
Dia.
To FAST. ni. n. [fajiao/i, Gothick ; paej-tan,

him ? And did not emtfajbiut us in the womb ? "Job.

FA'SHION. «. /. [fofm, trench ; faciti,

I'll

Shakefp.

[Jafonuer, French, from

Send him but hither, and I 'Wfttjlhn him. Sbakcfp.
Did not he that made me in the womb, make

I fhall nocdifcufs the peflibiUty of /i/Wirmi difeabs, farther than refer 10 experiment.
Harvey.

S.

t;, a.

here he might (b Jajljionably and genteelly
have been duelled or fluxed into another world, i'ov/i.

He loves me well, and I have giv'n him reafon )

Addifon'l Spectator.

;

.

the noun.]
I.

Not in nfe.

Form

He muft at length die dully of old age at home,
when

A

To \ a'sh I o n

fuch appearance

modifti elegance.

The farcy, n diftemper in horfes ; the

horfes leprofy.
barbarous word.
His horte is pofleft with the glauders, infcfted

;

Fa'shionABI.V. aJfv. [from faJhionablt.\
In a manner conformable to ciillom ; with

and ihy/ujbhrr, peeviih boy. Sbaie/f.

I fcorn thee,

Modifh elegance

as is according to the prefent cuftom.
Why Ihould they not continue to value themfclves
for this ouiiiic faJlioiiakJcr.efi of the taylor or tirewoman's making, when their parents have fo early
ioftrut^cd them to do fo >
Locke,

Rank

10.

FA'iCiHovs.eufJ. [fo/cimm, Lat.] Caufed
or afting by witchcraft, or enchantment.

I.

a6/e.]

condition above the vulgar.
;
It
ufed in a fenfe below that of quality-.
It is ftrangc that men of fjjbion, and gentlemen,
(hould fo grody belie their own knowledge. Raleigh.
9. Any thing worn.
Now, by this maiden bloflbm in my hand,

A

n. J. [French.]
faggot.
Military cant.
The Black Prince palled many a river without
the help of pontoons, and filled a ditch with faggots

And farewell goes out fighing.
ShakeJ}.
Having rank above the vulgar, and below nobility.
Fa'shionablkness. ». / [ftam fnjhlov-

4.

is

IValUr.

Obfervant ofthe mode.
Time is like af.ifihunb/ehan.
But with his arms outftretch'd, as he would fly,
Grafps in the comer : welcome ever fmiles.

Shalefpeare.

innocent diveriions \nfa/hhti.
Lucke.
His panegyricks were beftowed only on fuch perfons at he had familiarly known, and only at fuch
times as others ceafe to praife, when out of power,
or out offajhiin.
Pipe.

There is a certain bewitchcry or fafcinalioit In
words which make them operate with a torcc beyond what we can nitmrally give an account of. Saulb

fifcineM.

3.

A young gentleman accommodates himfelf to the

8.

Benilry.

Made according to the mode.
9J\c\\y fajhidttab/e robes her perfon deck ;
Pendants her ears, and pearls adorn her neck. DrjJ,

That I will deeply put xhtfafliion on,

Bacon,
Such a fafcimtiing fin is this, as allows men no
iiberty of confideration.
Decay cf Pirty.
Fasci.va'tion. «./ [iromffijcinate.] The

FA'SCINE.

able.

2.

That (lightly (hakes his parting gueft by tl.' hand ;

And wear It in my heart.
7. General approbation ; mode.

There be none of the affcftion! which h»ve been
ooad KifufcixMroT bewitch, but love and {1117.

them i%iinAfa/cirtaiioii.

upon which they

blifhed by precedent.
Sorrow fo royally in you appears.

to enchant ; to influence in

fome wicked and fecret manner.

ture?, to fecure

the faJhianaiU praftice of the
world can be reconciled to this impoitant doiSrinc of
our religion.
Rogers,
'Tis prevailing example hath now made \KfaJ%ion,

'liltoifon.

M.?nner imitated from another; way efta-

6.

yViftman.

70 FA'SCINATE. -v. a.

Elimine how

were grounded.
Waljh.
It was not eafily recsnciled to the common method J but then it was ihtfaJhioB to do fuch things
Arbutbnot,

or lowling,

pnftcrity.

b« Mauifite

No wonder that paftorals are fallen into difeileem,

with fillets; tied with a bandage.
Dia.
Fascia'tion. »./. [trom /«,<:«.] Bandage;
the aft or manner of binding difeafed parts.
efpecial forts

FAS

to Mil «»iry thii<j into quertlon, it will
to fatisfy men's reafon about it.

2,

Drydent

Religious mortification by abftinence ;
religious humiliation.

We humble ourfelves before God this day, not
merely by the outward folemnities of ijt:j{, but by
atttiding our fouls as well as bodies for our fins.

Atterkurj,

Nor pray'rs notfajls its ftubboru pulfc reftrain j
Nor tears, turagcs, taught to flow in vain.
Poft,

Fast. adj. [pa:j-«, Saxon.]
I. Firm; immoveable.
He by his ftrengih fettethyi/7 mountains.
Pf. Ixv 6,.
Laft, the fire and iiis three font,

Withiheir four wives; and god made _/l/? the door.
Milton.

Be fure to find.

What I have foretold line, many a Iiatd eflay. M'li.
» i
or
J

Of dingers and ailveriities, and painii
Kre thou of Ifrael's fceptie gct/i/ noW.

•

ATHlen.

2. Strong; impregnable.
Englnr^d, by report of the chroniSles, was mlurkine in
fertcd with robbers and outUws; which,
woods and /i/J places, uftd often to break forth to
Sffi/er on IuImJ.

rob and fpoil.

3. Fixed; adhering; not feparable.
Lodronius, with the breaking in of the horfemen,

was driven into amarlh; where, after that he, being
uttera.\mo(tfy/i in the deep mud, had done the
A'W/. j.
inoft, he yielded himfelf.

A man in a boat, who tugs at a rope l\\M'%pJi
lo a (hip, looks as it

he relblvcd to dt^iw the (lap to

;

found.

have I'een her rife from her bed, take paper, fold
and again return to her bed : yet all this
while in a moft/i/ lleep. Shakeffeart' s Mactelh.
I

Hammond'i PialJ. Caleeb.

To Fa'sten. f. a. [from//?/?.]

To make faft

1.

By chance a (hip vnsfaflen'd to the (hore,

Which from old Clufium king Ofinius bore. Dryden.
2. To hold together ; to cement; to link.
She had all magnetick force alone.

Ex.ra, V. 8.

and life fo/a/ doth fly,
Davies.
fit Icatn fo little, and forget fo much.
The prince gtoweth up fifl to be a man, and is
of a fwcet and excellent difpofition it would be a
him to
.
ftain upon you if you Ihould miflead, or fuffcr
^''"'' "> ''''•'''"'
be mined.
Uncertain; variable;
7. Fast, and loofe.
inconftant ; deceitful.
Skill comes fo llow,

:

A rope of fair pearl, which now hiding, now

hidden by the hair did, as it were, play 3X fafi and
vichnefs.
looft each with other, giving and receiving
Hidney.
If (he perceived by his outward cheer,
bewry.
talk
That any~nouU his love by
Sometimes (he heard him, fomelimes ftopt her ear.
And play 'ifaft andloofe tlie live-long day. Fairfax.
to
Tl.e folly and wickedncfs of men, that think
fhr fa/l and lorjevt'wh God Almighty VEJlrange.
with
ii tbey cohered, yet by the next conflifl
fo
•ther atc-ns they might be fejiarated again; and
eternal vicifiitude af fajl and hoft, without
!

on in an

conlbciating into ths huge condenfe brniies oi
Bcnilfy.
planets.

eiier

Ti.iT. ad-O.

Firmly; immoveably.

In the I'ea-coaftof India there is no iron, which
thereflies not like a bird unto thole mountains, and
Brown.
fore their Ihips are_/u/?f«cJ with wood.

To affix; to conjoin.

3.

united with fome other word, as by or
belidt.
BarbarofTi left fourteen galleys in the lake; but

the ticklings, fails, oars,

and ordinance he had laid

Kp in the caltle ftjl by.

Kno'let.

he words Whig and Tory have been preffed to
many fuccelTions of parties, with very
Swifl's Examiner.
diflFeient iitisfajiemd to them.
•]

To (lamp

to imprcfs ; to fix.
;
Thinking, by this face,
Tofajlen in out thoughts that they have courage ;
Siairffeare's Julius Cr/ar.
But 'lis not fo.

4.

5.

Milton's Paradife Loji.
PaJI ly the oracle of God.
Lei purling ftreams be in her fancy fccn.
And flow'ry meads, and vales of dieerlul gtecn ;

And in the roiJft of dcathlcfsgrovcs
Soft (ighing wiSics lie,

And.fmiling hopes foft by,
>nd juft beyond 'em ever-laughing loves. Drydtn.
f'tijl by the throne obfeijui ous (amj refiJcs,
Pe/c
And wealth inivfiant rolls hcrgnlden tid.i.
Well-tnown to mc the palace you inquire
Pofe.
fcr/T/j /fjf.fc it dwells my houour'd fire.
Here o'er the 'martyr-king the marble weeps,
t^^ij.-ji tufiJt him once fear'd Edward llccps. P«/>f.

Swiftly; nimbly.
would give a ihoufand pound \ could run as/*/?
Sliakefptart's Htnrj IV.

as 'Sou can'll.

There ftreams a fpriiig of blood fo/'r.v?,

Decay of Piety.

DfUid,

S.ich as had given the king diftal^e, did contend
by their forwardnefs to (hew it was but \\\t\ifajltief%
to the former government, and that thofe attentions
ended with the time.
3. Strength ; fecurity.
All the places are cleared, and places o^ faflntfx
laid open, which arc the proper walls and callles
of the Irifli, as they weie of the Britilh in the

Could he/j/?f» a blow, or make a thruflr, when
Dryden's Mn. Dedicat.
To Fa'sten. 'v. n. To fix himfelf.

This paucity of blood may be obferved in other
frogs, and otlier filhes; and
forts of lizards, in
therefore an horfe4eech will hardly /i/f« upon a
Sro-wn's futigji- Erriurs.

Htfaflen'don my neck; and bellow'dout.
Sbakeff. King Lear.
The wrong judgment that mifleads us, and makes

As he'd burft heaven.

the will oixtn/njitn on the worfe fide, lies in milrcLocke.

portiiig upon comparifons.

Fa'stener. ». /. [from/fl/?f».] One that
makes faft or firm.
Fa'ster. ». /. [from/a^.] Hewhoabftains

The foes had left the/rjtf<re/} of their place,
PrevaiI'd in tight, and had his men in chace. Dryd.
4. A ftrong place; a place not eafily forced.
If his adverfary be not well aware of him, he
entrenches himfelf in a nnvfijlne/s, and holds out
IVatis on the Mind.
the fiege with a new artillery.

Clofenefs;

5.

difttifion.

Bring his (Vile from all loofe grolTnefs to fuch firm
fajinefs in Latin, a? in Demorthenes.

Afckami

fajiuettje, Frejich.]

Ava-

a fecond dowry, prevailed With the prince to be
Baeon.
contradled with the Princefs Catharine.

Fastidio'sity. w./ [itomfaji^diom.'] Difdainfulnefs ; contemptuoufnefs.

Siuift.

[fajiidiofus,

Latin;
Dlfdain-

trench.]

lently nice.
Reafons plainly delivered, and aUvays after one
manner, efpecially with tine nai fajlidiuus minds,
Bacon.
enter but heavily and dully.
Let ihe'nfujidious v.\in

Coinmidion 01 the brain.
Run on and rage, l'« eit, cenfure, and coademn.
They were not made for thee, kl's thou tor them.

A ftjueamilh faflidlous niccncfs,

Proud

;

haughty. DiS,

Fat. adj, [psr, Saxon.]
FuUfed;

1.

plump;

flelhy : the

contraiy

When gods have hot backs, what (hall poor men
I am here a Windfor (lag, and the

do? For me,

Shaieffeare.
Let our wives
Appoint a meeting with thisold_/i' fellow. Shakejp.
'I'is a fine thing to he fat and tffiooth.L' EJlrange*
Spare diet and labour will keep conliituiions,
where this difpofition is the ftrongeit, from being
fat : you may tee in an army forty thoufand footI'oidiers without a/i/man; and I dare afhrm, that
by plenty and reft twenty of the forty (hall grow fat.
Arbulbutt,

fattejl, I think, I'th' forelt.

2.

Ben. Jonfon,
meats and
L'Ejlrange.

in

drinks, muft be cured by fl.irving.
All hopc!, railed upon the promifes or luppoled
kindneliesof ihe. faJUJious and fallacious great ones
South.
oilhe'wotlJ, (liallfail.

Fasti'diously. adv. [from fajlidiotis.']
contemptuoudy fqueam
DifdainfuUy
;

i(hly.

Their folt taknt is pride and fcorn :

tlicy

bok

Coarfe ; grofs ; [fat, French.]
We're hurry'd oown
This lubri(]ue and aduh'rate age;
Nay, aidcu_^/ pollutions of ourown,

3.

T' iiicreafc the (teaming ordures of the ftage. Dryi,
Dull.
fouls 1 in whom no heav'nly (ire is found.
Fat minds, and ever-grov'hng 6u the ground. Dryd.

ricious ;clofehanded;clofcfifted; covetous.
The king ht\n%fa_ftbanded, and loth to part with

ftiJllJieux, fajiidieufe,

not

concifcnefs;

Not ufed.

Aiufiuorth.

Fa'sthanded. adj. [fafi and hert/d.]

adj.

Da'vies on Ireland.

times of Agricola.

to Itan.

not fufTercdto approach i

FASTI'DIOUS.

'Taylor,

Fa'stness. »./. [from_/^.]
1. State of being faft.
2. Firmnefs; firm adherence.

6. To lay on with ftrength.

;

From ihofc deep wound!> as allemiru'd the face.

;

Their oppreflors have changed the fcene, and combated the opinions in their true Ihape, upon which
they could not fo we!l/j/2<n their difguiCe.

tilli.

Government of the Timfju.

Fa STUous. adj. \_faJ}iio/us, Latin -jfajiueux,

To unite infeparably.

ful; fqueamilh; delicate to a vice; info-

Silo's brook that flow'd

furniture ot his head.

Fasti'giatf.d. adj. [faf}igaius, Latin.]
D/W.
Roofed narrowed up to the top.
Fa'stingday. ». /. [fajl and (/<y.] Day
of mortification by religious abftinence.
Do not call it afajlingday, uolefs alio it be a djy

the (irviceof

from food.

Bind the boy, which you (hall find with me,
Shakeff. King John.
Fcjl to the chair.
This love 01 theits m^felf have often fccn.
Haply when they have judg'd me/j/J afleep. Shak.
In this fcnfe it is
2. tlofcly ; 'nearly.

Dome.

To draw tnifajien fundred parts in one.

This work goeth /i/ on, and profpereth.

1

Sidiuy.

Moles reared up the Tabernacle, znifajirned\i\i
Exodux.
fockeis.

;

JaPldliuJiy, and fpeak difdainfullyr COBcludI«g,'if
a man (hall fall (hott of their garniture at their knees
and elbows, he is much interior to them in the

of extraordinary devotion and of alms.

make firm; to fix im-

A

/Ifcham'sSch-olmaJler.

Speedy ;
Wel(h, quick.]
quick fvvift. It may be doubted whether this fenfe be not always adverbial.

6. [from f^ft,

3.

to

mantle coming under her right arm, and covering moft of that fide, had no f.ijlening on the

Quick wits be in defire new-fangled; in purpofe,
to
uncoiillant; light to promife any thing, ready
and
forget every thing, both benefit and injury ;
thereby neither faji to friend, nor fearful to foe.

-

;

moveably.

feal it,

Firm in adherence.

1.

S-aift.

the world.

4. Frequently.
B:ing tried only with a promife, he gave full
credit to that promife, and (\lll gave evidence of his
hdelily as faJi as occalions were offered.

left fide.

4. Deep

B.

The heavicft mufe the fwifteft courfe has gone,
Poft.
As clocks tan/ajhji when moft lead is on.
You are 10 look upon me as one going/n/ out of

1'""tl'-

him.

it,

FAT

FAS

FAS

4.

Wealthy ; rich.
Some are allured to law, not on the coatemplation
of equity, but on the promiling and plealing thoughls
of litigious terms, _/a/ contentions, and flowing fees.
Milion.

Thefe were terrible alarms to pcrfons grown fat
and wealthy by a long and fucccfsf.tl impollure.
South.

A fai benefice is that which fo abounds with an
eftateand revenues, that a man ma;' expend a great
deal in dclicacicsof eating and drinking.

Ayliffe,

Fat. ». /. An oily and fulphureous p.trt of
the blood ; depoflted in the cells of the
membrana adipofa, from the innumerable
amongft
little vefTels which are fpread

them.

The fat is to be found immedi-

ately under the Ikin, in inoft prts of the
body. Thete are two forts of fat ; one

yellow, foft, and lax, cafiiy melted; another firm, white, Ijrittle, and not fo
eafily melted, called fuetor tallow.

Some

reckon the marrow of the bones for a
S^mcj.
thiid fort of fat.
In

this

ointment the ftiiuigeft and hardelt mgiediests

FAT

FAT

aienti to come By, are the mofs ujwn tKe flnill of
»
dead man unburicd, and the />j/s of a boar and a
bear, killed in the aft of generation.
Baccti.

men

To

with abundant food.
Oh ijow this villainy
Doth/j/me with the very thoughts of it!

fixty-three,

Skik,

to

carry with

on purpofc loyir and eat them.

Clarence, he ii well repaid

^^
The one

2.

'""''''' "'' '"/^'-''"^ fof •>« pains.-

S&tkifp.
labours in his di:(y with a good confcience ; the other, like a beall, but
faitivz up for
''
d)e daughter
!
VtJ,ra,,ge.
.^n qM. ax fats as well, aad is as good, as a young.
M^ir timer.
YkT. n. /. [pxr, Saxon; latte. Dutch.]

Fa'TAL.

adj.

Latin;

[falalis,

Deadly;

mortal;
deftni^ion.

Ofilial maid

deftrufuve;

A w-atchlul/ar^ o'erfces its rifing years.

Proceeding by deflmyv inevitable; ne-

3.

.

.

"

rebels .it

Ba-.on', HenrjWl.
-^

It was

Sm fatal to ftout ((udibnis,

4.

in the common/j/e

renowned

O rKe divine

f'-"-,

1.

For beaaty flill is/a/a/ to the line.

Drydenl

Fa'talist. ». /. [from /«/<..] Oite aho
mimtains that all things haopfn by inevitable neceflity.

Viydt^
The appellation of the firft perfon of
the adorable Trinitv.
The eternal Son of C'ud eOcemed it his
meit and

10.

dnnk to <lo the. will of his Father,
obedience alone obtained the gix-aiclf

W.II the oUhiutc fala/i/l, find fufficient

tATKLnv.

She and her I'oU'y were too neax related.

apology >

j.

„./. [fataJite. Ftench i from

fala/.]
I. Predeftination;

;

.Jufpended flione on high.

preor^linalion

of inevitable cau/es afting invincibly in

4.

perpetual fuccefljon,

TIk ftoicks helu afjlali,j,,,nd a fixed unalterable
tourfeofe*«n(»i t^u: then they held n-I^j,
but ihcy
fell out by a iiccelTity t.r.eiguu
'[<
Irom .1.1
inht

m the things thcm&ivti, wh.ei Cad iuafctf coulij

Gives u. lite fccpe.

FATHER.
word

IS

^

language.

«..

/.

The
'

r mull m.,ke my father-inJa-uj
a vi(it with a gn-at
tram and equipage.
AddifonU

Ay, good youth,

And ratbcr/a//j<r ihce than mafter thee.
Shakr/p.
2. 1 o fupply with a.father of
certain qua^

lities,

my

:,' '"" Jio-ftrongorthan
lex.
Being tofaiher'd
fo hulbanded. Shak.
light and portable
pain
-,

;

;

Mi
7 C.,/ar.
How
my
fccms now.
When tkat. which nukes me bead nukes the
king
"

bow

Shahfpcare
[pacfeep. Saxon.
This

He chllikrd as Ifati.r'J,

Pedkn>

-..'jiili

To take; to adopt as a fon or daughter.-

1.

Drydea'i Aia.\

in.tli?

Sfeelalor.

Jo I'a'ihEr, -v. a.

^

-fbuad likewi/c

,

father of one's hulband or wife.

Inveded with the power of fatal determiruUon. Peculiar to Shakefteare.
'\h. fated Iky

Creator.

Pi-avc>

I

Fated from lorte of- fieel byStygiaii charms','

predetermined order or

Icr his
'I.,y!or.

I'ATHCR.JN-LAW. ft.f [hom father.] Tiie

Fiiorl

Endued with any quality by fate.
Andturc ufed by Dryden is unufu.tl.

he campellation of God :is

We-havt one Father,, even Cod.
Jihn, vii,. 4
Almighty and moll meiciful Father. Com.

!

Blight Vukanian aims,

feries of things and events

I

DecircQ by fate.

Her jukward loie indeed wasoddlyyi/fi/j.

and

glory.

Dryden j^
•
,-,
, •
2. i^lerroined in iany manner by fate.

•

tfather .. Sbakef.
very n.uch'.

convent,

Ftomhence the race of Alb.iii/.,/i<„ come,

11.

She tied he." fathei»s rage, acd with a train,
D,tvn by the fomhern blalts.wa* fated here to reign

;

a /^>4,r of. a

lor

Aadt!ie.|onggloriesofm.,je lick Rome.

,

D.yden.

,^
1'a'ted, adj. [from////'.]
,

.

The tule of a fenator of old Rome.

9.,

Wiih full force his deadly bow he bent.
,,

Forma! in apparelj

his' piety and exemplary
life; and as
perfons under any great affliftion
applied thcmfelvesto the moft eminent confelTors,
our beautiful voiary
tock.the opportunity of eenfefling
hctlelf, to ihii cr.
Rbratcd /j/iov
«...

Denbam.

And leathtr'd faut among tlie mules and riia>pters
Behold the dclliii'd pUt- of your
abodes j
For thus Anchifti prophecy'd of old,
And thus uMtfaial place of reft fori iomI.
Dfjien.

.

.

f here was

Caufe of death.

In all hisfeaisof arms, when leaft

G«;!.-xlv. 8.

In gait and couiucr.,.nce furely like

'

Vet ftiil he cliofe the longeft way lofate,
Wafting at once his life and his elUie.
Drydtn.
Courage uncertain dangers may abate;
Butwho cjn bcarih' approach ofcertain/a/f / Dryd.
The whizzing arrow fings,
And bears y\\'j fate Antiiiojs, on its wings.
Pope.

Appointed by deftiny.

"<»"*•

till

his houfe.

larly of a Jefuit.

LoOkii.j, he leeds alone his familh'd
eyes
F-eus liug'ring dtaih, but looki.ng not
he dies;

'" '*" '''"« '" "s'"
h!' ""My ?
i'ihouih
iT" tl"^
and
he avoided to hght with enemies
abroad,
yer he was rtill enlorced to hght for
it with
•

'

.

Til' adjoining -bbey fell.

it

lilloijon.

.

lord

Death; deftru^ion.

A chapel trown'd,

.

The title of a popilh confeflbr,. partidu-'

—By wai..! ftall he die, and take his end > Sbaktii

rea-

.

Jd. xiix. 16;
He hath made me i father to Pharaoh, ani

fir.all

8.

Viewing a neigiibouring hill, whofe top of
late

1.

dernefs.
I was A father to the poor.

A. Pbilipt^

Event predetermined.
Tell mc what/aftr attend the Duke of
Suffolk'?

Stillingjict.

«
7. One who ads wuh paternal care and ten-

(

Guides the fhaft from Cupid's bow,

which «» caiirut

"'P-

them to con-

"^''

Dryden,

Random chance, or wilful/a/e,
2.

fooing, that ihe/e things tnfaij
ini neccflary,
being in vain 10 be troubled at tiui

Men

Diydcn.

Wh-n empire in its childhood firlt appears,

thy marriage is cndow'd
Wi;h Phrjgian, Lalian, and Rulilian Mood. Dryd,
.A palh in the brain is mcrt dangerous ; when
it
wiieth the heart, or organs oi breaihing,/jM/.
Arhuibnoi on D'ut.

p^p^

The cccMaltical writers of the firft cen-

may talk of the father,, and magnify the
faU'cn, anJ.fccinto n^ake tiie authority
of the /athen next to iniailihle ; aiid yet wpofc

'

You mult obey roe fcon or late;

!

i-erle.

turies.

Why will you vainly Itrusgle with ycMfait! Dryd.

ceflary.

3.

tather o!

6.

Why ftiU the brave bold man is fortunSe,

caufing

the
GV«. iv. 21.

har|. ..Id organ.

;

fatal,

Others delude their trouble by a graver way of

^f'akefpeare's Richard \\\.
.
has given original to any thinea
^
good or bad.
J' bal was the father of aU fuch
as handle
,

Approach no; me and what I will is^a/A Mtlloit,
Theie u a neceflily inyj/^

'

2.

^
Une who

J.

Nccefliiy or chance

French.]

clnden.

bilhopi.

,

caufes.

F'-Jih.

lawyer a,

1

Deftiny ; an eternal feries of fucccflive

.

man anfwered. When fuch a wicked

he title of any mah reverend
for aee^
learning, and piet)%
.,
fliall Hiid one well
,^°"
accompanied
,,,.
With reverend/arierr and well (earned

4.

neceifity.

yo'/i ii. 14;
.
A, white ftone
uled for flagging floors, for cillerns,
ard tanners/an.
ifioduarJ on

:

you goeth .0 Heaven.

FATE. «./. fya/.vOT, Latin.]

thtfais diill ovtrflow with wine and oil.

I.

Cheerful in Hames, and martyrs of their love. Diydt
By the decree of fate ; by inevitable and

Fa'talnsss. »./. [from/a/<7/.] Invincible

1.

Epfom, a lawyer, faid#i,r feorn..
""• -/";*<•'• when dotii (he fun change ? Th>:

,j

old

To fay that the world was made cafually by the
concurrence of atoms, is to .iffirm that the
atomi
compofed the world mechaiinically ini fatally; only
lliey were net iVnlible of it.
Btntley.

This is generally written vat.] A veflel
in which any thing is put to ferment
or
be foalced.
,

nol^icaimg weather

invincible determination.

_

V.om. iy. 16.

of an old man.

A poor blind man was accounted cunning in prog-

When fatally their virtue they approve;

j

'

.

I he appellation

3.

Tis the procelTion of a funeral vow,

fleflied.

root and

falher
Ot many king.
Sbakcfpeare'i Macbeth.
Abraham is Kht father of us all

Which cruel laws to Indian wives allow.

to grow full-

;

thy pofterity •

DtHbam.

Aibuibnot on Dirt.

To grow fat

n.

i;.

It was faij
It Ihould not ftand in

But that myfelf (hall be the

So fatally deceiv'd he had not been,
While he the bottom, not his face, had feen.

Lode.

wife adhere. Milton.

Ihefirft anceftor.

That had the fclf.<namoured youth gaj"d here.

CmW/atieJ by good pafture, after violent motion,
fometimes die fuddenly.

2.

jj,„

Mortally; deliruaivcly. even to death,
The llream is fo Iranfparent, pure and clear.

1.

Shakt/p.Hamlft.

^'"'"

He (hall foi^et
FalKr and mother, and to his

the mod

it

conliderjbleyir.;//.")!.

They fa! fuch enemies as they take in the wars,
that they may devour them.
Micr.
The Caritbecs were wont to geld their children,

To Fat.

fome

Fa'tally. adv.lixom fatal.']

Aould hive/atrtj all the region kites

VVitti this flavc'softal.

is conceived

be-

I's

Father is a notion fuperinduced
to the fubftance,
orman, and refers only lo an aft of
that thing called
man, whereby he contributed to
the generation of
one ot his own kind.
.
Loclit
Son of BenfJem, thy>Mfaith it; the man by
whom thou hart breath and life fpeaketh
the word.

Seven times fevcn, or forty-nine, nine times nine,
or eighty-one, and feven times nine, or the
years

Ere thi5
1

Tendency to danger ; tendency to
great or hazardous event.

J.

make plump and flclhy

°

gotten.

King Charles.
All the father's precautions could not fecure thd
fon from tbe/.;f:;/;/y of dying by a lion. VEflrarge:

redundant, great part of it is converted into this oily
Aiiuwni: in Alimenis.
'il'JO''.
y« Fat. v, a. [fit)m the noun, j
make

He by whdm the fon or datiefiter

.

By a ftrange fatality
fuffer their dlflenting
to be drawn into the ftream
of tlieprefent vogue.

This membrane fcparaes an oily liquor called
/jt : when the libres are iax, and the aliment too

fat ; to fatten ; to

F A- T

Decree of fate.

2.

f

?.

Sbaktfp. KJ^g L,'ar.

io adopt a coinpofition.
.Men of wit,

'.

Ofkn/i/i.-, 'd" .vhat Ue writ.

^iLiff.

4.

io

F A U

-FAT

FA T
^. Toflftfibt toany onoashijoffispring, ct
with ok.
production
Ana fcllwefefOi to/a//wr any thing ufMi them
Hmker.
more than is theii two, letlhem read.
My name was made ufc ot by fe«rjl|ieiJbns, one
of which was j>le»fed to yjjitr o» roe a new let of

That of which no bottom can b« found,
2. Th.it of which the circumference can-

S-wi/i.
preduSiora,
Magical relations eonipreiKii<ldfi°e£t»derived and
fit hered upon hidden qualities, whereof, Irom rc-

With fpan! and inches fo dimihut-ve
Shakrff. 'Troihi and Cr.
As fears and rcafons ?

:

Will you with counters fum

Fati'dicaL. adj.
dipt, French.]

Lecke.

Fa'tHerless./7(^'. [from_/a/;&<'>-.] Wanting
a father; deftitute of a father.

Sandys.
Thefilheri/fs hath no friend.
He caught his death the l.nft county feflions, whert
widow-wopoor
he would go to fee juftice done to a
man and \iafatlnrlrfi children. Addif'.n's SfeQator.

Fa'therliness.

Thfc
«./. \{lQmfathn-.\
tendernefs of a father; parental kindnefs.
Fa'therly. adj. \^xQtn father.^ Paternal;
like a father; tender; protefting; careful.
Let me but move one^ueftion to your daughter,
And, by i\>ii fatherly and kindly power
Shak.

The part which defciibes the fire, I owe to the
piety and fiiherty afiedion of our monarch to his

!

fo to afpirt

the ufual meafure applied to the
depth of thefea, when the line for foundIt

%,

is

Reach; penetration; depth of contrivance; compafs of thought.
Another oi\\\^fatbom they have none

To encompafs with the arms extended

1.

2.

To

Nor be ambitious, ere the time, to pleafe.

Wearinefs; laflitude.
The caufe of wearinefs; labour; toil.
The great Scipio fought honours in his youth, and

A long-dcfcendiiig healthful progeny.

Their days in peace, and_/Jr/r«V/ with content;
Enjoy'd the dregs of life, and \Wi to fee
Brydcn,
Tygers and wolves (hall in the ocean breed,
The whale and dolphiny»>"e» on the mead.

DryJert.

And every element exchange its kind.

To ¥ KTi'cvz. 'V. a.\ fatigue, French;y«tigo, Latin.] To tire; to weary; to harto cxhaaft with labour.
rafs with toil
The man who ttriigglcs in the fight,

When thriving hone(ty in courts we find. GramMlle,

FA'lUOUS. adj. [/«/«w, L.ttin.]
1.

;

Fatigufs left arm as well as right.

We

I

Fa'tling. »./ [fwmfat.]

A young ani-

mal fed fat for the ilaughter.
down together, and a little child ihall lead them.

fatuoii!.']

». /.

[from/j/.]

to

That which

gives fatncfs.
The wind was weft, 0(1 which that phllofopher
bellowed the encomium oifatner of the earth.
Arhutbitot.

To penetrate into
or utmofi: extent :

ahakeffeare's Henry IV,

Oleaginoufnefs; fliminefs ; unftuoufnefs.
But the olive-tree faid unto them; Should I leave

man, and go to be promoted over the wees? Judgis.
Byreafonofthc_/(i(wf/iandheavinefsof thcgiound,

Egypt did not produce metals, wood, pitch, and fomc
Arbuthnot.
fruits.

as.

/ caanot fathom h's

defign.

Fertility; fruitfulnefs.
God give thee of the dew of heaven, and thc/«fmfs of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine.
Gtn. xxvii. zS.

Vc^e.

to find the bottom

6.

That which caufes fertility.
When around

Fa'tty.

adj. [from/Cj/.]

Unftuous; olea-

ginous ; greafy ; partaking of the nature

of fat.
The like cloud,

if oily or fatty, will not difcharge; not becaufe it (licketh falter, but becaufe air
preycth upon water, and flame and fire upon oil.
Bacon's Natural Hifltry.
The gourd
And thirfty cucumber, when they perceive
Th' approaching olive, witli rcfentment fly
Herfatty fibres, and with tendrils creep
Philift.
Divcrfe, detefting contatt.
The common fymptoms of the muriatick fcurry
are, » faline t.ifte in the I'piltle, and a lixivial urine,
fometimcs with a fatly fubOancc like a thin ffcin
Arbuthnot on Aliments.
a-top.

Fa'ucet.
Latin.]

71.

f.

[fatijjet,

French; fauces,

The pipe inferred into a veffcl

to give vent to the liquor, and flopped

The clouds itn^ fatnrfs, in the middle (ky.
The dew fufpendcd (laid, and left tuimoift
Thilift.
The execrable glebe.

'

i

fack,

benches in the afternoon, that thou haft forgotten.

Earth and water, mingled by the help of the fun,
Bacon's Nat. Hiji.
gather a nitrous/.</r;f/i.

Fil'.on.

;

Fa'thomless. adj. [from/7/ia/».]

ftupid.

and unbuttoning thee after fuppcr, and (Iccping upoa

Deformed creature, on a filthy fwine;
His belly was upblown with luxury.
And eke vmhfatnrfs IwoUen were liis eyen.
Fairy ^ueert,
3. Unftuous or greafy matter.

'Tis too ftrong for weak heads to try the heights

French; from

Thou art io fattxiittcd with drinkin; old

Fat ; greafe ; fulnefs of flelh.

4.

[fatuite,

It had argued a very fhort fight of things, anl
extreme y^/tf/Vv of mind in me, to bind my own
AT. Charles.
hands at their requeft.
Thefe fymptoms were fo high in fome as to proArbuthnot
on Air,
duce a fort oi fatuity of madnefs.

dull;

fed.

5.

tni fathom the depths of his flights.
Our depths whofathvms,

f.

Fa'twitted. adj. [fat a.nAiuit.~\ Heavy;

Fa'tness. 71. f. rfromy??/.]
1. The quality of being fat, plump, or full-

with refpeft to the

try

It.

Foblilhnefs; wcaknefs of mind;

morbid feeblenefs of intelleft.

IJ. xi. 6,

Fa'tner.

luding to an ignis fatuiis.
And when that flame finds combuflible earth,
ThtaafatuQUs fires and meteor take their birth.
D<nham,

Fatu'ity.

The calf and the young linn, and ihtfatling (hall
lie

Ghn,
Impotent; without force; illufory; al-

makes them fo.
2.

Pe»ce, ye fatkidney'd rafcal ; what a brawling
Sbakefpean-'s liemy I V.

do'il thou keep

Stupid; fooliih ; feeble of mind.
pity or laugh at thofe fatuotis extraragants,
while yet ourfelves have t, contideraUe doTe of what

Prior.

Fatki'dneyed. oajr'. [fatandh'dmj.] Fat:
by way of reproach or contempt.

Drydm,

depth.

4.

The good old man and thrifty houfewife fpent

my fatnrfs wherewith by me they honour God and

reach ; to matter.
Ixave, leave ia fathom fuch high points as tbefe ;

To found;

A num'rous family with plenty fillM,

Latin.]

endured thefatigues with which he purchafed them.

or encircling.

•3.

Yet then this little foot of earth well tiU'd,

FAITGUE. «./. [fatigue, ixcuch; fatigo,

To lead their bulincl's.
Sh.tkefftart'i Olhrllo..
To Fa'thom. v. a. [from the noun]

2.

Drydtn.

Shititfy. Coriolamn.

And by his fide rode loathlbme gluttony,

Whereyi//]&&*ry/>(' could never touch the ground.
Shakf^eare^i Hettry IV.

1.

Otivay,
Apollo check'd my pride, and bade me feed
fioclc^,
beyond
nitig
nor
dare
the
reed.
fatt*
^•j

Requieken'dwhat in fielh vrnfuligatt.

And to the ba'.tle came he.

Div^ into the bottom of the deep,

3,

;

All agree to fpoil the puMick good.
And \\\\iinifitteft with the brave mati's labour.

By and by th; dinof war "gan to pierce
His ready fenfe, when ftraight his doubled fpirit

2.

ing is called \.\xc fnlhom lint.

Drydm.
Ani fatteat haly with foreign whores.
Fa'tten. t: rt. [itom fat.~\ To grow
to grow ftefhy.
fat ; to be pampered

Tt>

Not in ufe.

or two yards; the fpace to which a man
can extend both arms.
The extent of this faibom, or dlltance between
the extremity of the lingers of cither hand upon «panlion, is equal unto the fpace between the fole of
Brtnvv.
the foot and crown.
The arms fpread acrofs in a ftraight line, aiwi
meafured from the end of the long ringer on one
hand, to that of the other, a mcafure equal to the
Holdrr.
ftature, is named i fathom.

Eafily

;

Milii/u

FA'THOM. v.f. {pAsm, Saxon.]
I. A meafure of length, containing fix foot,

[fatigo,\ax\'a.'\

wearied; fufceptible of wearinefs.
Ta Fa'tigate. <v. a. \fatigo, Latin.] To
weary to fatigue ; to tire ; to exhauft
with labour; to opprefs with laflitodc.

Drydin.

Fa'i herly. adn). In the mannerof afaiher.
Thuj kiim, fatherly difpicas'd ;

adj.

Lib, Londinenjtt^

D-we not, on thy life,
Touch aught of mine;
This falchion elfe, not hitherto withftood,
Thefe ho(tile(ielJs(hall_/rf//M with thy blood, bryd,
3. To feed groflv; to increafe.
Obtccne Orontcs
Conveys his wealth to Tyber's hungry fhores,

Dhi.

ly ; mortal ; deftrudive.

Fa'ticabi-e

£x. xxii.

Above his brethren

Town of ftuffioy^i//M land.

U^Avell

prove.

and

Arbuthnot..

To make fruitful.

2.

Fa'tiIERoUS. /7i//'. [fatifer, L2X\n.'\ Dead-

QmfjlherU/s diftrefs was ieft unmoan'd
Shahff.
Your widow dolowrs likewife be unwept.

O execrable fon

fattenetb tnd inereafeth the diltcmper.

Latin; fnliProphetick ; having the

[ffilidictis,

The oak, of all other trees only fatidical, told

He Ihall not afflift any widow, or/»*irr/f/f child.

fuifering fubje£ts.

Frequent blood-letting, tn fnull quantities, oftttx
increali:th the force of the organs of digclhon,

them what a fearful unfortunate bulincU this would

,

That you hare in her, bid her anfwcr truly.

fat.

power to foretcl future events.

Who can abide, that againft their own doflors,
boih'of the middle and lateft age, fix whole hooki
(hould by their _/i/Acr;6o5i/j of Trent be, under the
pain of a curfe, impcrioufly obtruded Mpon God and
//»//.
his church ?
We might have had an entire notion of this

;

1

j

charafter of a father; the authority of a

fitttriotj, or fatherly authority,

To Fatten, t. a. [fromfai.l
To feed to make ficlhy ; to plump with

The nft proportion of his infinite
And buckle in a wafte tnoi fathnmlefs,

The

father.

Beatley,

not be embraced.

c ivcd grounds of art, no rdrfonsare derived. Brori't.

Fa'thirhood. *./. [frnm /n/ker.]

Vap«uri imi clouds feed the j^atrls ef the ewth
with the bitim of dews and xhzfatwfs of Ihowers.

1.

upoy a peg or fpigot. It is fometimes
improperly wtMtn fojpt.
You wtFCout a joodwiiflleforat forenooa it> hearing
a caufe

F A V

FA U
• nufe li<tween sn orange-wife ind a JiJel-ft\leT,
and adjouraeil a contiDTcrfy of three peace to a feSbakiJ^eare.
cond audience.
\i you are fen't down to d w drink» and tind it
will not run, blow ftrongly into the /iuietl, and it
Svji/l.
will immediately pourtnio your mouth.

Fa'uchion.

»./.

When Iter judgment was to be praflifeJ in know.

2.

A {o\i\tx* ifuuchhK, and a teaman's oar. DryJtn.
FA'UFEL. n. /. [French.] The fruit of a

As <e fortelling of llranjer?, from the iangoai
yuticles about the wicks of the candJc, ii only fig^
nihcih a nwiltair about (hem, hindering the avolaBrrwn.
tion of light and AK/avilkut particles.
"1

FAULT. »./. [fau, fault, French

j

Who durft thyfMliiefi (igure thus deface

theyia/r of malcing a law unto ihiemrclves, than the
(rime of traolgrclTinga law which Cod had made.
Hookrr,
He find* no _^/r with thdropinion about the true
Cod, but only that it wai not clear and diftind
(poagh.
SilU'mgJIeti.
He that but conceirei a crime in thought.
Contra^ the danger of an »&ot\/jutt
Then what mull he expe«fl that Ihll proceeds
7o commit fio, and work up thoughts to deeds t

Wrong

'

Milton.-

I'

senile-

The torm of polity by them fct down for perpetuity,

he was ftricken into the mouth at the firft courfe. To
that he died prefently.
Bannt Henry VII.

3.

n FA'VOUR.
1.

To be defirous of a good name, and careful to do

-v.

a.

[far.;eo,

All thefe his wonj'rous works, but chiefly man-,
His chief delight nai favour ; him, for whom
All thefe his works fo wood 'rous heotdain'd. Milton.

7.

Latin.]

And evrry one his lovcfuit will advance

It

as, the enquinr is at

To be

[from the noun.]

wrong;

to fail.
Which moved hrm rather in ecloguea than otherwife to write, mindisg to furnilh our tongue in this
kind wherein wfaulteth.
Sptn/ir.

coming furrendcrtj unto him.

millrefs'sy^jt^oar on fuch occafi'jns of old.

8.

To charge with a fault

to accofe.

4.

0/JSairg.

An offender

Then (he, behrld the/au/irr here in fight;
This hand committed that fuppofed offence.

FA'ui.TFiKDrR. »./, [>«// and/W.y a"
cenfurer ; an objeftor.

FA'uLTILt. adv.

[from faulty.] Not
fightiv; improperly; defectively; erro-

neoufly.

Fa'oltinisj. »./. [inm faulty."]
fiadneiii; vitioufiioTj; cvii difpofition.

Addfori.

upon a (ilthyyii/0*r, fetting forth both in

(luttilh-

nefS"

Sidney,

Shakrfp,
Difli^at jhyyawai- with an ufuipcd beard.
Shai,
There's no guodnefs in thy face
if Antony
Be frte and healthful, why (f> tart ^favour
To trumpet fuch good tidings Shak: Anl. andCh op.

owned that the gentleman favoured

:

SfeSfalor.

>.

;

to contribute.

Fa'vour. n.f. {fefvor, Latin
I.

For that I will natfatli thee.
But for humblenefi eihaull thee.

me,

Shakefp. tlenryW.

Young though thou art, thine eye
Hath (laid upon fome favour that it loves.

To referable in feature.

To conduce to

tliou this fivour foe

It is now little
g. Feature ; countenance.
ufed;
That h onljr faitabk in hying a foul complexion

7 o aflift with advantages or conveniences.
No one place about it it weaker than another, to
The porter
his mafter.

Speliator.

Any thing worn openly as a token.
Here, Fluellen, wear
and (lick it in thy cap.

KittJlei.

favour an enemy in hit approaches.
3.

it

A

J^ryden.
Oh happy youth I and jCrvowr'i/ of the (kies,
Diftinguifh'd care of guardian deities. Pofe'xOdyJJey.

2.

received that

helpeth to continue love, if
and perhaps a glove, or other like favour, may as well do
it.
Bacon's Natural Hijiory.
blue ribliand lied round the fwordarm, I conceive to be the remains of that cullom ol wearing 4
is

one wear the hair of the party beloved ;

;

I could tell to ihee, as to one it pleafei me, for
.^«// of a better, to call my friend, 1 could be fad,
and fad indeed too.
Stakrfftme.

Something given by a Lidy to be worn.

Unto his feveral midrefs, which they'll know
My favour! feveral which they did bellow. Shakefp.

The good j'Eneas am I call'd a name.
While foKWax favour' d, not unknown to fame.

abfence.

a fault.

vourcd.

[

To fupport; to regard with kindnels

firft

ever complain, nor faiif.r.ih with the limes. Sviift.

Objed of favour; pcrfon or thing {z,

6.

Mtii favour wonders.
Haccn'i Natural Hijlory.
toTtvne (o favoured him, that the town at his

For want of fugar-tongs, or fpoons for fait i
Kirtg.
Being void of all fricndlhip and enmity, they

Fa'u lt e r. »./. [fmm fault ]
one who commits a fault.

Wh.nttheconditions o\ tht-fc .inns would he.B.Janfoit. •'
Come down, fiid Reynard, let us treat of peace :
^
A peace, with all my foul, faid Chanticleer;
But, with your/uiK»i-, I will treat it here. Dryden,

Than Clarion, the eldeft fon and heir
Of Muftarol.
Spenfer.
The fame goda that arm'd the queen of Troy,
favour
Miy
Tamora the queen of Coths. Sbakeff.

AtUrhury*

7« Fault, •v.a.

With tbings forgot.
Siakefpeare.
Yet ere we enter into open ail,
Withy^j«r, 'twere no lofs if't might be enquit'i, '

Of all the race of (ilver-wiogcd flies
Was none more favourable, nor more fair,
Whilft Heaven AM favour his felicities.

Before his facred name flies ey'ryfauit.
And each exalted flanza teems with thought. Pipe.
Which of our thrum-cap'd anceftors found faitit.

ToFault. t;. ».

— Givemeyour/iww; lay dull hrain was wrought

to be propitious to ; to countenance.

everything, that we innoccnily may, toobtaln it, is
fo far from being a fault, even in private perfsns,
tfaM it ii ibcir great and indifpenfable duty.

3. Puzzle ; difficulty :

,-...

.

:

If you like not n^ poem, the/nu/l may poflibly be
sa my writing; but more probably 'lis ia your mo*

Drydtn.

pardon-,..-;

Worthy Macbeih, we Hay upon your leifure,

three ways _/<iv/(^;

DryJen.

which cannot bear the truth of it.

^Swift.

,,.

Leave; griod will;

y.

fau/iy ia omiuiog
feme things which in Sciipture are of that nature,
as, namely, thediBirence that ought to beof paftors,
when they grow to any great multitude; faulty in
re<)uiring doctors, deacons, and widows, as things of
perpetual iieceflity by the law of God, which in
truth is nothing lefs ; faulty alfo in urging fome
things by Scripture muuble, as their laj- elders.
is

Sidney.

.

could not difcaver the lenity ix\d. favour of thi»
fcntence; but conceived it rather to he rigorous than

erroneous.

;

of importance w^te diilributeito

I

Defeftive ; bad in any refpeft ; not fit
for the ufc intended.
By accident of 1 faulty helmet that Parker had on,

They wholly miftake the nature of crilicifm, who
dank its bufinefs it principally to f\ai faatb. Uryd.

I.

u one which 'uf.ui/tji, a Sam,

To fuch unfigbtly fufFerings be debac'd
2.

,

'-

The race is not to the f«W, nor ye' favour to
men of (kill.
Ecct.'xx. ij,
O, my royal mailer
The gods, inyit/niii toyou, made her *rueT. Plil/ifr.'
4. Lenity; inildnefs; mitigation of puniiti-^
ment.

Guilty of a fault ; blameable ; criminal
not innocent.

So goodly and ercfl, thou^hfju/ly fuicc !

In

'•

his favourites.

Can thus
Th' image of Cod in man, created once

converfation it is generally fuppreffed.]

Templ^,

Kindnefs granted ; benevolence flicwn.
All favoun and punilhments patitd by him, all
ofF.ces aud places

Fa'ultt. adj. [fauJif.Yrench.homfau/l J

I'he Jtiog doth fpcak

Hight crime; fomewhAt liable
to ccnfure or objeAion.
The prophet chufeth raihcr to charge them with

Diyd.

!

Whoever thinks afjultlefi piece to fee,

fettar,

I. Ofience;

theage.
3.

TMnks what ne'er was, nor is, nor ne'er (hall be.Pi/w.

The / it fome-

time founded, and fometimes mute.

;

They were invited from all parts for the ufe of
kings, princes, and minifters.
And in (hort, th&
favour of learning was the humour and mode of

Fairfax.

1.

Fa'ulcon.
c,- f Falcon.
Fa'olconry. /
\ Falconry.
to be deficient, Spanifh.

,

There where he died, and wbeie he liv'd again.

£Aing of a(hes.

from thole in

favour of which th«y are here allodged.
Rogeri.
At play, among ftrangers, we are apt to find our
hopes and wilhes eugaged on 3 fudden infivour of
one fide more than another.

.

Where for our li<is he/nlilt/s futfer'd pain,

fpecies of the palm-tree.

want

religion, are of a kind very different

Delinquency; aftual offences.
The inhabitants will not take it in evil part, that

Fa'u LTL ESS. <a^'. [from /««//,] Exempt
from fault; perfeft; completely excellent.

Fa VILLOUS, adj. [faruilU, Latin-} Con-

•

The pleafures which thefe Scripture; afcribe ta

.

A (lately tomb, whofe top a trumpet bore

a. Defeft ;

favoured.

they,;«/r/(r^ of their people heretoiore is laid open.
Hook€7\

crooked fvvord.

rals,

tion to favour : with o/" before the thing

fawn, who coming in the wind of the hunten, doth
not know whether it be a thing or no to be efchewed,
Sidney,

A

[See Falchion.]

2. Support; defence ; vindication's inclina-

ing_/i»///>Tr/i by his firft tokens, (he was like a young

;

Yet well I remember
'Vhe favours of thefe men
were they not mine
Did they not fometimerry, all hail tome?
St^ak,
youth of iiaefj-vour and Ihape.
Bacon,

fnvetir, Fr.]

:

Countenance;

kindnefs ; kind regard;
propitious afpeft : with of before the fa-

.'

!

A

By their virtuous behaviour they compcnface the
hardnefio! their favour, and by the pulchritude of

vourer.
I

It

pleas'd your majefty to turn your looks

Offavour from myfell, and aU our boufc.
'ITie

LorJ and alio with mm.

their fouls make up w{ut is wanting in the beauty of
their bodies.
South.

,

Shake/.

child Samuel was \n favour, both wtrh the
i .V.jiit. ii.

They got not the laud by their own fword

;

a6.
but

thy right hand and thine arm, and the light ot ihv
countenance, becaufe thou haft i/aviur unto them.
Pf. xliv. J.

Hit dreadful navy, and his lovely mind.
Cave him the fear inifavour of mankind. IVallir.
This favour had it been employed on a more
delerving fubjetll, bad been an elfetl of juftice in
your nature; but, ai placed on me, it only charity.
DrjiUa't Aumg-sxbi, Preface.

Ka'vo u r a l l e
,

.

adj.

French ;

IfaiterabU,

frrvoraiilis , Latin.]

pojJittous; aflfWlionate.
FSmnus l'Jani.igenei moll gracious prince,

ii.Ki.-5 J.;

!

\.e\\i favourable ear to our reqUclls.

Sh.ikefp. R. IIT.'
2. Palliajivc; tender; avcrfc from cenfure!
None can h.ive the fivoutalle ihoiifht,

That to obey 3 tyrant's wiil t'lty f >ijg).t.
3.

Dryden,

Cgndacive to ; contributing to ; propitious.

.

,

People are multiy'ifd in a conrttr/ by the tfinper

»(

FrhY
srd long life.

Tlif |re»l man donvn, you raarli, hli/ii/r^/r ftl««l
The raor aJvinc'd, nukes iticndjafenemiei, ^kak,
Bid her (leal into the pladied bower,,
Where honej-tucklesiifeu'd by the funi
Forbid the fun to emn; like io_/.rivKi/V«,
Made proud by prineos that aiv^iif e iheir ^irjdtl
Agjinft thjt power that bred it.
Sbikefftare.
iNothing is more vigilant, nothing more jealous
than i favorite, efpccially towards the wainlhg time,

te

>\ccommodat«;
Many good officers were wiling to ftarf' tWi*', 'm
a fine vtrf favoumiU for tliC making Icvici of

j

'

ij.'

'

'

j
!

Beautiful; well favoured ; well featured.
Obfolete.

'

.

'.

Of all rtie race of filve'r-winged flies
Wliich do pollelt the empire of the airi
Was none morcJavpiirtt6/g^ nor more fair.
Than Clarion the cldeft fon and heir
01 Mufcarol.

^penfer.

iFA'vouRTiBLENESs. »./. [iiovciftrvMrable,^
Kindnefs ; benignity.

Fa'vourably,

H'ottoa.
and fufiKtl of faliety.
This man was very capable of being a great _^Clarindon.
vourit! to a gre.»t king,
Whttfav'ritet gain and what the nation owes.
Fly the torgetful worldv
Pofe^

[from faveumblf.']
with favour ; with tendcrnefs
Kindly
with kind regard.
Touching aflions of common life, there it not any
defence-morcyijxvtfra^/)' heard than tlieiis who allege
ad'v.

;

Fa'vouIiless. adj, [fromyafoKr.]
I. Unfavoured ;
not regarded with kindnefs ; having no patronage ; withoutcountenance."

.

;

^a'usev. v.f. A fort of large eel.
He left the wave to walh

IVifd.-n.

Drydttt.

Ta-'vo u R e u. participial adj. [itom fa'Vjiur.^
1. Regarded with kindnefs.
Olt with fomeyrff oar'^ traveller they ftray,
Pope:
And fhine before him all the defert way.

Featured.
X. [From favour, the noun.]
Always conjoined witli ivcU or ill.

mi fat kine.

A fmall mount of
four fathom wide, erefted on the
level round the foot of the rampart, to
fire upon the enemy, when he is fo far

;

i

I

advanced that you cannot force him back ;
and alfo to receive the ruins which the
CAt^apns make in the body of the place.
;

;^.i;

,

..

'.

n.f.

'

:

'

''

favours ;

ortendemefs;

a well-wiflier ; a friend.

Hooktr.

unto tliemfelves.

'

fupporter.

;

[faiitri.x, Latin; fautrice,
French.] A woman that favours, or fliows
countenance.
It made him pray, and prove

Mineiva's aid \\\%fautrejs ftill,
Chapmart* s Iliads.
He comes from banijhment to the faulrrfs of
liberty, from the barbarous to the polite.
Garth.

Daniel's Ciiil ll'ar.

All i\\t favourers of m.igickwcre the moft |)iokll
and bitter enemies to the Chiilliaii religion, ^ddifjit.

Ta'vourite. n.f. [firvaril ,Jin;ctit^,VKnch;

theyir^t;«, and fo the calf,

one regarded
with favour; any thing in which plea Aire
that which is regarded with
is taken

A perfon or thing beloved
;

F.very particular mailer in criiicifm lias his faAdJifi^rt's -Sprflaior.

^curile paHbges in an author.

FAWN.

Perha}« a contraftion of the French /a//fa>i, a term of fondnefs for children.]

So fathers fpeak, pcrfuafive fpeccli aiiJ mild
Pope.
Their fage experience to ihefav'riie child.
One diofcji as a companion by a fu-

To coast by frlfking before one;

1.

!

X.

periour; a mean wretch whofe whole
bufinefs is by any means to pleafc.
All flours and punillimenls paHed by him, all
ofijtcs .ind places of importance were dillributcjl to

Sidmy.
tth favcurilrt.
gentleman, who, by mifchaiice,
J was a Thcflalian
of the piiriic of that
fiaviiiR killed i favourite
<oun'ry> "''' purl'ued fo cruelly, that in no place
obtain my
1.ut by t.»vour or corruption tlicy would
Si ney.
4tIlrudion.

iuur.j

Now obfolete.
Hairy.
They could call a-comet i faxed ftar, which is all
Camden'i Rem,
one with Itella crinita, or cometa,

'

Fay. fi./.

[fee, French.]

A fairy; an elf.

I.

And the yellow-fkirted/jjix
Fly after tlie night Heeds,
Mlliont
Leaving their moon-lov'd maze.
Ye fylphs and fylphiJs, to )0ur chilf give ear; ,
Pipe.
Fays, fairies, genii, elves, and demons h;ar
.

'

!

(From/oi, French.] Faith. Wholly od-

z.

•'

Their ill 'haviour garr^s men miflay,
Both of their dudrinc and their^iv.
Fe'aberry. «./. [grojliilaria.]

Spen/er.

A goofc-

bcrry.

i^'V?.'

Fe AGUE. 'V. a. [GoTver ufes To feige, for

'To

to cenfure ; fig"i, German, to fweep
fylen, Dutch, to ftrike.] To whip ; to
chaftife ; to beat.

Fe'altv. n.f.

[feaiilill,

I am in parliament pledge for his truth,
And lalling_/><»/ry to the new made king.

'

Inftcad thereof he kifs'd her weary tVst,

As he her wrong'd innocence did wcct. /•'.i/y i^ieen.
Is it not llratige that a rational man Ihould wurlhip
that he fhould ^r-rt-n upon his dog? bow
an ov
himfelf bclorc a cat? and adore leeks »cd garlick ?

a

Shak^

Let my lovereign

Command my

cldeit fon,

nay all my fons,

As pledges of myfealty and love. Shakefp. Hemy IV,

Man dilobeying,
iDilloyal, breaks his /ra^v, and (ins
Agaiiift the high lupremacy of Heav'n.

Milloit^ .

j

Each bird and beall behold
After their kinds: I bring them to receive
From thee tlieir names, and pay thecycj/zy

•

.

'

'

Wijhlowfulijedion.

,

l>tiiton'sP.iradlf,Lof}.

Whether his firft defign be (o withdraw
Our A'.i/y from Cod, or to dillurb
Miliou'sParadiftl.oJt,

Conjugal love.

to fear; fai'r,

Dut. feahk, Erfe.]
1. Dread; horrour; painful apprehenGon
of danger.
Fear is an unealinefs of the miod, upon the
Ls,eke.
though t of future evil likely to befa! us.
Trcmblinpyetf;' lliil to and t'ro did fly,
And found no place where lafe flic ftirond him might.
7 i?/Vv ^ueert.
For fear was upon them, bccaufe of the people of

The dog (Iraight/awaci/ upon his mailer for oldSid'.ey.
knowledge.
Holding Corioli in the name of Rome,
Shakefpeare.
Kvcii like ayj-w/f/ff^ greyhound.

And lick'd her lily hands v,iihffu'i:itig tongue.

to

fidelity

mailer; loyalty.

as a

To court by any means. U fed by animals.

Duty

French.]

due to a fuperiour lord ;

dog.

2.

.'

Saxon,

FEAR. v.f. [peapan. Sax.

Pope.
For him as kindly fpreads the flow'ry lawn.
"v. n. [of uncertain original.
To

particular approbation or afFcftion.

In**

[itom fawn.y
cringing fervile way.

haccn's N.ifuralllijiory.

Who for thy table feeds the wantony^.Ti'?;,

;

r

Speflator,

appellation o^fa'wneri.

FaVhikGLy. o/r.

French, from fats, in

Lookir.g my lovT, 1 go from place to place.
Like a youngyiiifn that late hath loil llic hind ;
And feck each where, where latt I faw her face,
Whofe image yet I carry frclh in mind.
Spenfer.
The buck is called the firft year a fawn, the fcSh.ikrfp. Lo've's Labour Loji.
cond year a pricket.
The colt hath about four years of growth ; and fo

favorila, Italian.]
1.

[faarr,

the old French a child, probably from
A young deer.
iiifaiis, Latin.]

1

One that

fawns ; one that pays fervile courifliip.
By foftnefs of bthaviour w« have arrived at the

'

F^AWN. v.f.

Sbakefp. Coriot,

;

Fa'utress. n.f.

Do I not know you for t favourer.

Solicit all reputed_/j^'«Ki-rri.

For the inheritance of their loves.

folete.

BenjfitKfon.
The new mountain in the Lucrine lake, which
is alleged, by the yi;w/orj of this opinion, as an inftance in behalf of it, was not raifcd thus.
Wtodzu.

Of this new feft ? ye are not found. SIsak. Hrn-V\ 1.
Shalt'ff.
Being BOW a favourer 10 the Briton
Conjure their friends they had, labour for more,

Harris.

I am neither author oryixw/<»r of any fei^:
1 will
have no man addict hiinicU tonic; but if I have
any thing right, defend it as truths, not mine.

[

If we (hould upbraid (hem with irreligious, as
they do OS with fuperftiticusyjv3»«/-i, the anfwer
which herein they would make us, let them spP'/

'

[Latiii ;;y2ra//'«r, French.]

Favourer; countenancer

from y<rvci»r.] One who
one who regards with kindnefs

Ta'vourer. »./.

'-.'

L

---i

How you can frown, than fpend ifav>x upoa rherv

.

Chaptttjn*s Iliads.

J

ance.

You will rather flicw our gentle lowts

earth,

Gcn^lis.

Ta'vouredi.y. ad'v. [(tom favauKd.'\ Always joined with ivetl or ill, in a fair
or foul way; with good or bad appear-

To

Fawn. »,/. A fervile crijige ; lowEattCff,

Fa'xep. adj. [from pxr,

Fa'ussebraye. ». /.

A thoufand young ones, which flie daily fed ;
Sucking upon her poifonous dugs, each one
Offundry ihape, yetall illfuvour'd. Fairy Siatert.
The/yV-Zatw/ffi/andlcuii-llelhcd kine did cat up
the feven •well -favowed

.

;

Did fliole.

Fa^utor.

01 her there bred

OdctfaTvu'J,. and cting'd, and fervilely ador'4
Heav'ni awful monarch)
Milttsi'iParadfeL'ft,
Whom Ancus follows, .with ifaivaixg air
But vain within, and proudly popular.
Drydm,
Dent'rous the cni\n^ faivning crown to quit.
And pleat'd to *lcap4 from flattery to wit.
Fopit
bring forth a fawn.
4.

other filh

falom, ai cither- Kao favourably or too hardly drawn.

-•
1

I

'

The wave fprung entrails, about which faufexi and

;

Shok^f,

'

'

Fairy ^eea,

j

And thou, fly hypocrite, who now wauld'ft be
Fatron of liberty, who more than ihou

,

Yet no where can her find fucji h.ippinefs
Heaven doth me envy, and {ottvaefa-fourlefi.

The violent will condemn the charafler of AbTVe are naturally inclined.to think_/JvoKnii/y of
Rogrrt.
thofe we love.

So long as Kdward is thy conftant friend ?

,

Unfavouring; unpropitioos.
Of that goddefs I have fought the fight.

z.

fincercly for themiclvcj, that they did as neceflity
llooicr.

ways.

My love, forbear tofartm upon tlielr ftawai
What danger or what forrow can bctall thcc,

4a'wner. n.f. [from _/^/Tiw.]

conftrained them.

She goeih about feeking fufh as are worthy of her,
and flieweth herfelf favourably unto them in the

To court fervilely.

5.

'

\

I

5.

PE At

F A. vr

|eaentlM, httltb,
\ T^lmfU.
'
''
.'
convenieirt;

of t)ie cKmatCi/it'tbrdMr

F.xra, in. 3.

thoTe cou.-Atrics.

i

What then remains ? Are »« depriv'd of will?
Drydrtt,
Mull we not wifli, ioxfearoi wiihiiig ill.
Feiv,

in general,

is

that

paliioii

of

our nature

whereby we are excited to provide for our fecuriiy
Rogers.
upon the approach of csih
2. Awe; tlcjeition of mind at the prefence
,

.*

Heuti.

of any perfon or thing terrourimprcflfcd :
with c^ before that whitJi impreilcth.
And
;

I

'

F E A

F E A

And

imi of you

the ftar if you, «nd th«
Biall be upon every beali.

Ajainft fuch monfters

Gm. ii. i.

F E A

God mainlainfd his own,

Here's our cliief guei>. If he had fcjin for'ottfn,
It had been as a gap in our great
/f,y?r
Shai^Jp.
On Pharaoh's birth day he made a/my? unto all

"//"'A^cieculian or eJtrjoidinary judgment upon

Anxiety; foHcitude.
The principal_/>ji w« wr tlie holy temple. Mac.
4. That which caufes fear.
3.

What Cod did com.-nand touching Canaan, concerneth not us any otherwile than
only as a/r-ai/w

Antony, (Uy not by hii (ide :
Thy demon, that's the Ipirit that keeps thee, is
Noble, courageous, high, unmatchable,
Where Cifar's is not; but near him, thy ans':!
Becomes iftar, as bein ovtrpow'i 'd.
Slakire
"^'
5. ITie objeft of fear.

6. Something huag up to fcare deer by its
coloor or noife.

He who fleeth from the irolfe of t\\t fritr (hall
fall

into the pit,

midft of the pi:

and he that cometh up out of the
flnll be takea in (he fnare.

_

1'

I.

Timoroufly;

Obfolete.

_, _

YoFear. w. fl, r[peapa, Saxon,]

I.

Fairy i^ter.

Now ibr my life, HorMnfioyfar/ his widow.
Then nevrr truif me if 1 be afraid.

— You

arc very fenfible, yet you mifs

my fenfc

llrengi!i unto your ;oe.

When I view the beauties of thy face,

death, nor dangers, nor Jilgrace.

_ p.
2. To fright; to terrify;

O'lA/r.

.

Carem.

We

mmft not make a fcarecrow of the law.
Setting it up inftur ihe birds of prey.
Shakcfb.

emption from fear;

He

A thing praclicible.

Urydfn,

(

P"*f"'.

E,,du..

dreadful; frightful;

imprelT-

ine fear.
I^ither faft to friend,

nmfearful

tf, {ot,

Aftham.

Clanvllle't Sceffti.

have commanded them.

Fe'asibly, adv.

to be reverenced.

Who it like thee, glorious in hdinefi, fearful in
^. Terrible;

;

Iris

FEA.ST.

».

/.

\fejie,

He prov'd the beft man 1' th' field.

Khakffp,
are men of fir»n^ heads for aflion,
fucli/j(j
perform
as
and
they arc not able tocxprefs.
Addifaii't SpiHato'.
trick
an
artful,
2.
feflive, or ludicrous
;

Our fuidiers

A

performance.
The joints are more fupple to»11/j/tof aflniiy

French

aod motion in youih than alierwaids.

Pnic-

ticably.
fijliim,

Latin.]
I. An entertainment of the tabic; a Aimptuous treat of great numbers,

Ad; deed; aflion; exploit.

;

South.

[from feaftblr \

Philibs.

Pryoclcs ia his name, renoc ned faf
For hisbold/arj, and hardy omfidcnce ;
Full oft approved in many a t ruel war.
Fahy £^
Tarijuin's fslf he met,
And flruck him on his knee in that dty'sfats.
When he might aift the woman in the fcciie,

and things

Things are_/>.^<i/» in ihemfclvesi elfe the elcrual
wifdom of God would never have advifed, and much

have been.

Revives x\\t. fcajlriiei old.

I.

Duvi.l.n Ireland.
"*'' '^^"'mt fearful of dealh, which
. "f."/
neither Calfandra nor Cleopatra wouU
r 1

His hofpitable gate,
Unbarr'd to all, in.itcs a numerous train

Of daily guclb; whofe board with plenty crown'di

BrolvH't Fulttr Erraurt.

nh feaficilei.

Cuf-

Feat. n.J. [fiii, French.]

The lri(h are manfearful to offend the law than

A

Fe'astriie. ». /. [/yt/? and r/ri- J
tom obferved in entertainments.

impoffible for poflibiliiics ihcmfelv-j.

are

Luxurious; riotous.
The fuitor train

•Vho crowd his palace, and wiih lawlefspow'r
His herds and flocks mfaftful rites devojr.
/'i/i'.

Men often fwallow falfities for truths, dubiofitisi

jrct

.

FelHve; joyful.
The virgins alio Ihall tm frajlful iv^%

Milton,
2.

FE'ASIBLE. adj. Ifa.fiiU, French.] Practicable
fuch as may be effected; fuch as
may be dune.
We conclude nuny thing* impoffibilities, which

fhetnjiilh.

One that entertains magnificently.

Miltan,
Therefore be furc
Thou, when the bridegroom with his/a/f/V/ friend,
PaiTes to blifs at the mid-hour of night.
Hall gain'd thy entrance, virgin wife and pure.

Temple,

for certainties, potTibiliiiet iorfeafbUhiet,

msny
Taylor,

From whence captivity and lofs of eyes.

with

FEASiBi'LiTr. n. /. [itom fia/iblc.]

Prii,r

the objed of

fpcak of great and

Vifit his tomb with flowei-s, only bewailing
His lot unfortunate in nuptial ciioicc,

nation, whole diftinguilhing charafler it is to
be mortfearleft of death and danger than any other.

2.

AwJul;

I.

Free from

though alone
Encompafs'd round with foei, thus anfwer'd bold.

Prafticability.

fear.

3.

Thofe feajlcrs could
exccllencici in mann.t.

Fa!ty Slueen.

1.

Hhakefp.
Ifalub

One that fares dellciuuily,

1.

Ex-

The flaming fefaph, fearle/t,

_

He 's gentle, and n<Afearful.
1 hem that a.e of ayi-jr/v/heart.

nature's excellence,

Diyjetf.

A

made afnid.

all

Fe'aster. «?. /. [from feafl,]

And walketh forth without fulpc<aof crime.

See, pious king, with difTrent lirilc.
Thy rtruggling Albion's bofom torn i

It has t/" before

.Ml thefe arc our's,

Whofe tafte or fmcU can biefs the/f.i/W fenfe.

gave inrtanccs of an invincible courage, and
Clareudui.

While the debating winds and billows b»jr
Hi, wealth into the main.
Dryden't ILrace,

2. Afraid.

urioufly.

cou-

From the ground (hefrarfrft doth arlfe.

And pray to gods that will not hear.

eafily

intrepidity;

intrepid; courageoun; bold,
cf before the fobjcft.

For hii ilUgoticn gain j

Timorous; timid;

lb

Decay of Piety.

fear;

So much fhe/'arj for William's li(e.
That Mary's :aic (he dare not mourn.
Yz'k*. r I., ajj. [jTrar and /«//.]

To delight; to pamper; to gratify lux-

i.

rage; boldncfa.

To be anxious.

to entertain

Fe'aSTFUL. m//. \fellflMifull,]

Fearless. aJJ. [from /far.]

Well you mty/ijr too for.
Safer than tnilt too far:

;

He was entertained and feafled by the king wiift
great lho« of favour.
Hayward.

/Mr/r/«/, in danger.

To live in horrour; to be afraid.

To entertain fumptuouny
magnificently.

2.

men, who

Gay.

i}. a,

JurlrJIy expofe tlicmfclves to this moll
formidable

Fearlessness »./. [from/for/^>.J

Then lot the greedy mftchant/rjc

1.

With

X6atf/p

'Ti« matter of the greateltallonifliment
toobferve
the Itupid, yet common boldnefs

.."'I*""-

Let me ftitl take away the arms I fear,
Nor fear ftill to be harm'd.
Sbakrfp.
If any fuch be here, if any fear
Lefi for his perfon than an ill report
j
If any think brave death outweiglu bad
life.
Skik.

2.

SaUtb

01

TiiFbar. -r. «.

—

a jearfuUef, ol, and mean comphances

i e'arl ESSL V. ad-v. [itova
ffarleft.]
out terrour; intrepidly.

Some, fiitiug on the hatcSen would fcem there.
With hideous %tiia%, Xo/iar away fear.
Dubhc
1.

I.

Hotker.

With, bold (wpular oUcnders.

to mgke afraid.

The inhabitants, being/r.rrd/with the S(Mniard>
landing and burning. Bed Iroia iheir dwellings.

To Feast

be noted

lii. I

great frierd--,

Feajl on the lilver, and give us the fartli ings.

A third thing that makes a go»emment julUy
<ic\fiiei

lEfJ,

I /ca/- not

that the acknowledgement of our
unworthiiiefs, our prolellcd /«r/«/w//
to alk

lor a popilh crrour >

Iball be

it

To

[ffom the noun ]

The parilh rinds, indeed; but ourcliurch-viaraeiis

anything, othcrwile than only lor his
lake to whom
Ood can deny nothing, thjl this (hould

Sbakrff>/arc'i Rhbjrd II

Thrre ihall rife up a kingdom, and
/tared above all (he kingdoms bclorc it

»•.

Richard and Northumberland,
Did reaff together.

Shakefb

Terribly; dreadfully.

own

Ski(//j,,

eat fuinptuoufiy ; to eat together
on a day
ol joy.

it is credible

mean Horteufiois afraidof you.
:ibakrfhnrt.
Tafrar the foe, fince fear opfrelTeth ftrengih,

I

Civcs, in your weak nefs,

Oppofed
^'^

to 3 faj.
This day ij call'd the/ a/? of Crlfpia:..

Jo Peast. f,

[from fearful.'\

In fuch a night

;

on a civil or religious occafion.

the'
griping <>{• an hungry belly to th.ifc
diTAcs which Sic
aA-yf to others.
j^^i._

LooV.'! fearfully on the

drcid; to confider with apprehcnfions of terrour; to be afraid of.

Or /den,

-

Something delicious to the palate.
Many people would, with reiK.n, prVfcr

3.

Thero is a cliff, whole high and bending head
conHncd deep.
Shake/p.
l-t ARFULNtss. w.y;
[from/-,7l/«/.]
I. Timtniromfiiefs
;
haljitnal timidity,
z
State of being afraid; awe; dread.

To

t.

.

in fear,

Did -s
Thilbe/'./r/i,/^ o'citrip the dew,
A:idfaw tht lion's Ihadow.
rv

But fair ClariOa to a lovcly/j-#r

Wai linked, and by him had ma.iy pledges dear.

j^

A
An
anniverfary day of rejoicing euher

•

E A R F u L L y . a/t.-.

ixiv. 18.

A compartion.

-(/".

„

Fear. n.f., r[peopa, Saxon.l

thing to fal
all into the hands of the

Hrb.
Lay4ohrnbytl!ofc pleifures the/^j^a/and'dJ'ngerous thunders and lightnings, the
horrible and Irequerit earth-juakn, and then
there will be found no
companion.
Ralri^h
I his !s the natural fruit of
fin, and the pefont
revenge which it takes upon tinners,
bclides thai
y<-jyK/punilhment which lliall be infliacd on them
in another lile.
Tillof/i^n

Crn. xxiti. 42.

j|

When lo! a bow'r afcended oti the plain,
Wri.h ludden feats ordain'd, and
large for either train.

Shakrff.

It is zft.nful

(;,.„

The lady of the haf oidain'd .!/-,7/?,
And made the lady of the How'r her "uel>;

living God.

Except tlie God of Abraham and thc/-«»- of haac

had been with mc.

his fervants.

pattern ot his juft difpleafure.
H-j-er.
Al! torment, trouble, wonder, and
amaicment.
Inhabits here: fome h»av 'nly power
guide us
Uurof thisy>j»/i,/ country.

Kf.at adj. [fnif, hicii
fadui ad Hiigmnf. ]
I.

Ready;

fkilful ;

fatt,

French

h''>n

ingenioy;.

Never marter had

A pa^ fo kind, fo duteous, diligent

j

So lender cv«r hit ocgrfions, tme.

So

TEA
Shah/feare's Cymhtllne.

SoyJdf, fo nurfe-like.

only ufed in irony and con-

It is now

s.

tempt.
That/M/ mill it controvcrfjr.

Stillingjleci.
.

Fe'ateous.

[from

<idj.

2.

iScat;

/<•«/•]

[from feateoui.']
adv.
Neatly; dextroufly. Notin'uie.
And with fine lingers cropt {MWfeatotiJly
Sprnfir.
The tender ftalks on high.
f E'ATHER. »./. [pe^^p, Saxon; feder,

Fe'ateouslv.

German,]
The plume of birds.

Fe'aihi REDGEU.

Belonging to a feather edge.
The cover muft be made of featieredged hoards,

his finger, he will fee a circle of colouns like tliofe
Nnvlan.
in the/for/if) I of a peacock's tail.
I am bright as an angel, and light as ifrather.

Swift.

from the proverbial expreffion, birds of afeather; that
is, of a fpecies.

Kind ; nature

;

in

3.

My
An

makes

a

figure reTcmblin..;

the

A plant both fingle

and double it is increafed by fe'^ds ot
and-alfoby dividing the roots : it
fiowereth raoft part of the Summer.
:

alfo the bt&fibrifiigcs.

Febrifu'ge. odj.

An herb.
FE'ATHERt,ESS.ai//. [itom feather.l Without feathers.

Febrifuge draughts had a

fever.

The fpirits, embroiled with the malignity in (h«
and turgid and tumified by the feirite inmentation, are by phleljotomy relieved.
Harvey.
blood,

Fe'bruary. >t. f. [Febrt/a rills, Latin.]
1 he name of the fecond montli in the
year.

You have fuch a February face
So full of frofi, of ftorm, and cloudinefs.
SUaiefpeere.

Fe'ces. «./. [/j-i-M, Latin ; feces, French.]
1. Dregs; lees; fedimtsnts; fubCdence.
Hence the furfaceof the ground with mud

And (lime befmear'd,

To drefs in feathers.
2. To fit with feathers.
3. To tread as a cock.

Dryden,

Howei's Vocal Torejl.

Fe'atherly. adj. [{torn feather.'^ RefemThe accretion or pluvious aggelation of hail about
the mother and fundamental atoms thereof, fecms
to be (omcfali)cr/y particle of fnow, although fnow
itfcif

Broivit.

be fexaogular.

One who fells feathers for beds..
Fe'athery c(^'. \iiom feather,] Cloathed

Excrement.
The fymptoms of fuch a conflitulion are a

2.

Fe'culence.T
Fe'culency./
Muddinefs

1.

nimbly

;

Neatly;

dexteroufly.

Ardent in loie, outrageous in his play,

I ifJeculfKcies,

lent,

Fe'atness.

haccK's Hcmv'yW.
5.

To Feather one's --.-y?. - [Alluding to
birds which collert feathers, amon^ other
To
tnateriais, for making their neft.J
get titihcs together.

A

n.

1

Report ihejialaie of OcSavia, her years.

J.

One who cleanfes feathers by whilking

'

I.

.

haughty,

find out in

cruel,

or unmerciful

adj.

[ fro

Dcil/am.

m father. J

A fifici

faw young H.irry »iih his beaver on,
Hii luillcson his thigl.% gallanily arm'd,
Rife from tlKgroundlike/a/irrV Mercury.
Siuti/feaie't nci'iy IV.

So when the new-born pho-nix firft is Iccn,
iUt/i li-t'J IMtiXi all «doic tbtir iiuecn.

A

Craun\

children alfo they be.
ft.

y.

Latin.]

IfiTcttrtdo,

She retjuciled thcfe plants as a medicine of ftcutt'
dation, or to make her fruitful.
Bro^vn.

Ti Fecu'nuifv.

1',

a.

To make fruitful;

to make prolifick.

Di/?,

Fecu'ksity. »,/ [from Jicttiid; ficBKdit'e,
French.

was in every face. Addtfon''s (hud.
referable in coun-

Fruitfulnefs j quality of producing or bringing forth

To

in great abundance.

tenance ; to favour.

Clothed with feathers.
1

's likeneCs

To Fe'ature. a-, a.

Latin; fe-

[facundus,

The aft of making fruitful or prolifick.

his looks

Though vvnom features iM. the fillers grace,

AJi:itberJrii.cr had t)ie reliJue of his lunes filled

F E A rH ER V D

we can

temper thatdifcovcrs itlelf in the hillory.
Addifon on Medals,

them about.
w!:li f!ie (we dull or down of feathers.

fruit tul of

Fecunda'tion.

iy/i/,r.

if

aij.

Fruitful ; prolifick.
The more fickly the years are, the Ms fecund ot

We may compare the face of a great man with the
chara^cr, and try
and jtatures, the

fecu-

excre-

cond, French.]

Any lineament or fingle part of the face.

The hulband cock looks out, .ind (Iraii is f|ied,
And mcef. his wife, which brings Iicr/.a/i.vi5f,i'.

Fk'ATHERDRlvfR. «./. [/eatier and drnv.]

FE'CUND.

Sbakf/peat'e.

Though yc be the fairert of God's creatures.
Yet think that death Ihall fpoil yourgoodIyyr-.r/»r«.

dregg)' ;

Andfain'd to wa(h themfelves incelTantly,
Yet nothing cleaner were for fuch intent.
Fairy Sheers,
They are to the body as the light of a candle to
the grols Hkni fecuUftt fnutF, which .^s it is not pent
up in it, fo neither doth it partake of its impurity.
Glanv. Apology,

Dry den.
Neatnefs;

Fe'ature. u.f. [failure, old French.]
The caft or make of the face.

" Foul;

FjTcnt'
Fjrcnch.J

Philips,

Lat.

[fieculer.tus,

But both his hands, moft filthy^f»/f»/.
Above the water were on high extent,

nicety; dexterity.

2.

Iftnther and W.]
bed (luffed with feathers; a ftift bed.

Fe^'atherbed.

[from _/;•«/.]

». /.

which in more porous llocks

mentitious

'ihnfeatly footing fcem'd to fliini the ground.

plume his nobilityand people, Xof.alber himfelf.

T

•

quality of abounding with

:

Fe'ctjlent. adj.

Mc law a quire of ladies in a round,

^. To enrich; to adorn; to exalt.

T

.

Ot cyder plants finds palVage free.

The moon was up, and (hot a gleamy light j

He/eatArr'dhef a hundred times a-day.

,

To draw ih' earth's purert fpirit, and refi(t

Foot Hfeaily here and there,
And rwceifprites and burthen bear.
Sbakejpeart^s Tcmptji.

Dame Rirtlet was the fovcreign of his heart.

,

LA"^""'^. La"n-3

Pour upon it fome very ftrong lee, to facilitate t?i«
feparation of nsfeulence.
Beyle,
VVlicther the wilding's fibres are conttiv'd

Milton.

[from frat.]

I

Lees ; feces ; fediment ; dregs.

2.

Or whil^le from the lodge, or village cock

ad'v,

,-

''•^-

lees or fediment.

Count the night-watches to \iK fentlicry dames.

Fe'atlv,

four

Arbuthmt on Alimenii,

fmell in their/ccrj.

with feathers.

1

They (luck not to fay, that the king cared not to

the_/><-fjof the flood

Receiv'd the rays of heav'nj and fucking in
The feeds of heat new creatures did begin.

birds to cover his nakcdnefs.

of

Farrier's Ditl,
an ear of corn.
*io Fe'.\ther. 'V. It. [from the noun.]

Artuihn-.t.
_

Fe'atheRSELLER. »./. [feather ani/eller.\

tip

moft furprifing gcod

Fe'brile. adj. Ifibrilis, Latin ;/fi;;7f, Fr.j
Conltituting a fever ; proceeding from a

This io high grown ivy was like thaty<-j.'irr/,?/i
bird, whicli went about to beg plumes ot oiher

of

anj

Fhyer on the Hiimiurj
Having the power to

clFeift.

Mortimer's Hujbandry.
Fs'ather-grass, »./. [granten pulmofum.]

St.th/f.

A

Slvincy.

Bitters, like choler, arc the bell fanguifiers,

bling feather.

fort of natural
[Upon a hoife.]
frizzling of hair, which, in fome places,
and there
rifes above the lying hair,

^.

Difl.

viceable in a fever,

Mvrtim,,:

flips,

Have wrought the eafy-meliing king like war.
Shakefpcare's Hdnry VI.
I am not of that/w/ifr to [bake oft"
friend when he moft needs me.
ornament ; an empty title.

To be in a fever.

FebRi'cui.ose. adj. [fehriculoftis, Latin.]
Dili,
Troubled with a fever.
Febrifv'ge. w.yl [fibris vcidfugit, Latin;
Any medicine ferfebrifuge, French.]

doors with hinges fixed

the nature of feveral

tliqrcoa.

fpecies :

Clifford and the haught Northumberland,
And of \.\\t\tfcatbir many more proud birds.

7«Feb»i'citate. 11. ». [febricitor, Latin.]

cure fevers.

[feather and edge.]

adj.

Fe'atherfew. tt. f.

Wliich hoMi hf r neft, about to be o'erihrown,
Before the/raricM of her young arc grown;
She will not leave them, nor (he cannot Hay,
But bears them boldly on her wings away. IValltr.
When a man in the daik preifcs either corner of
his eye with his finger, and turns his eye away from

Pofe.

Boards or planks that have one edge thinner than
Muxt^K.
anodicr, art called/fjricifil'gf ftufl'.

,

The brave eagle does wUh forroiv fee
The foreft warttJ, ind th.it lofty tree

Addifott.

_

fitted with feathers; carrying feathers.
An eagle had the ill h»p to be ttruck with an
VEJIrarge.
anow, ffalhr'dUom her own wing
Not llw: bow they bend, nor boaft the fltiU

To give the/ffl/ifrt:;/ arrow wings to kill.
Fe'ATHERKDr.E. tt.f.

Look, as I blow Ciu%ftathfr fiflm my face.
Siakf/fraic'i llimy VI.

i.

fcveral liule winged

boys f-erch upon the middle arches.

Obfolete.

dexterous.

Vultures, harpies, ravens, cormorants, and, among

many otXKxfeatbrred creatures,

I^ook how well my garments fit upon me,
Sbahff-raiv'i Trmp'flMuch/cater thai) before.

I.

Then fliips of uncouth form (hall Rem the tide,
Artifalim' J people crowd my wealthy fide. Pafe.

Nice; neat.

3,

EEC

F E A
Dark'nir.? the iky, tliev kover o'er, aril (htoud
Prior.
The wanton (ailors wih afatl'fr'il cloud.

1

appeal to the animal and vegetable produiJ^ions
e:'.nh, the vatt numbers whereof noforioudy

lie liv'd in court mo(l prals'd,

of the

fampie to the young'lf j

tedify tlic exlreuie luxuriance -iw^jeturtdit^oi it.

A glafs [hitfejlur'd them.

moftlov'd,
to th' more mature,

Iroodicard,

Shalieffeari.

Tol'BAi.E.i'.a. [fiifez, French.]
I. To untwiil the end of a rope, and reduce it again to its firft ftamina.
z, To beat J to whip with rods. Jirfivcnh,

2.

Power of producing or bringing forth.
Some of the

ancients mentio.r fome ieeds

retain their_/crB»<//r)/ forty years ;

that melon-feeds,
iai(iii.;of

mdoas,

al'ier

and

thirty years ;

1

that

have found

are

beft

for

.R^v-

Fed.

Preterite

and participle

limitation ;

body.

of To

paff.

tlje

is,

AndyJ^-tail

Fairy Slucen.
Shall tl-.at viflorious hand htfeehlcii here,

either general or

is

That in your chambers gave you chalJifcment ?
Sijaktff. King Jtbn,

are feifed of land to them

Fed on h,( trembling limbs, and lapp'd the gore.

Fe'oary.

Or feliyff-fiinples m his maftcr's name.
hiMnt'iTale.

//"""<» '"ay fignify either a confederate^
a partner ; or a dependent.

betwiic Cod and us, as eating
and drinking, both among ]zf-'% and Heathens, was

Thefe be the ways by which, without reward.

contrary

to

all

y^i/rra/ right and jullice, both tapart nith Satdini.-!,
their lawful territory, and alfo to pay them for the
future a double tribute.
Grnu.

Fe'derary.

n. /.

A confederate

;

Sbakefffare.

5.

6.

[In law.] All lands and tenements that
are held by any acknowledgment of fupcriority to a higher lord.
All lands
and tenements, wherein a man hath a
perpetual eftate to him and his heirs, ire.
are divided into allodium and feiidum
allodium is every man'i> o«n land, which

he poflcfles merely in his own right,
without acknowledgement of any fervice, or payment of any rent to any
other.
Feudun, or fee, is that which
we hold by the benefit of another, and
in name whereof we owe fervices, or
pay rent, or both, to a fuperior lord.
And all our land in England, the crownland, which is in the king's own hands,
in right of his crown, excepted, is in
the nature of feudum ; for though a
man have land by dcfcent from his sn<eftors, or bought it for his ratmey
yet is the land of fuch a narure, that it
x:annot come to any, cither by dcfcent or
purchafe, but with tiic burthen that was
laid upon him who had novel fee, or
lirfl of all received it as a benefit Iroifi his
lord, to him and to all fuch to vUiom it
might defcend, or be any way convered
from him. feo that no m;'.n in Engl;ind
has direiium dominium, that is, the very
property or demcfne in any land, but the
prince in right of his crown
for though
ne that has fee has jm perj>etuum Cf utile
dominium, yet he owe« a duty for it, and
therefore it is not fimuly his own.
Fee
is divided into two forts ; _^<'-abfolute,
otherwife called /e^-(imple, and /<r-conditional, otherwife termed y^f-tail feefimj'Ic is that whereof we are icifco in
:

:

words.

To ui abd our

Dryditi.

Boerhaaveyei/ a fparrow with bread four days, in
which time it eat more than its own weight,
Arbuthnot on DieU

Vt.

Reward paid to phyftcians or lawyers.
He docs not rcfufe doing a {;ood office for a m:n,
AJJifon.
becaufe he cannot pay the/« of it.

2.

A

Addifom.

Tujffr.

The breadih of the bottom of the hopper mult be

Tenure
[fee and far/n. 2
by which lands are held from a fuperiour

half the length of a barleycorn, and near as long as
the rollers, that it may not y^fi/ them too faft.

Referve to each cattle their propertyyivr.

F i' ET AJL\i. n. f.

lord.
John furrenilercd his kingdoms to tlic pope, and
took them back again,, to bold m Jlrfarin ; which
brought

him into fuch
a.

Meriimer^s Hi/Jhiindryt
3.

Mortimer's Hvjhandry.

Saufb.
nor errs if he walks by it.
Watch the dileafe in time ; for wheti within
The dropfy rages and extends the (kin,
In v.iin Ibr hellebore ths patient cries,

4.

To nourifh

5.

To keep in hope or expcdtation.

To

luvc long loved her, and ingroffed opportunities
meet herjy^W every llight occafion, that could

but niggardly give me light ol her.

3.

To keep

/Cn'>lles.

[foible,

fickly ;

French.] Weak >
infirm; witiiout

To Fr. ED. %'. n.

To take food.
mak food.

My fpiritsyifi/r, and my pains ate itroug.
Orydiv,
Viecifty the image of Cod In us, t ratioujl and
immortal lout; nnd though we be now miferabic and
ftthie, yet we alpitc after eternal happineli, and
linally cxpcA 4 gicat cxaliatiofl of all our nati;r..l
Bcuuty,
powers.

KiecUngwvir bare without It. Shukej^, Maibeth.
2.

1 o prey ; to live by eating.
I am not covetous of gold;
Nor cut I, who tioihyc ti upon my cofV, ^bake/f.
^

You cxj againlltlic noble fcuate, who,
tinder the gods,

nnik of a cow, that fetdeti upon certain
Bacon.
.Some \>\rii feed upon ,the berries of this vege-

I'ver Ijy

herbs.

To

table.

weaken;

to

<i.

[from the noun.]

enfeeble;

ftrength or power.

to

deprive

Not in ufe.

Of as 4 cattle reared high aiid ruutid.
By fubiile cii^nctand (Uli^v ut tUglu.

of

k«p you in awe, vh\i.'i\ clfe

VVocidytVi/cfi one another. Sbjkfp. Citrit^Ianus.
Galen Ipeakcth bf the curing of the fcirrhus of the

Khyme is a cnitth that helps the weak along.
Smlih,
Supports they>i'^V, but retards the fliong.
To FE'r.Bi.e. f.

Chiefiy applied to ani-

To feed were bcft at home
Fiom ihea^c tUe lawce to meet is ceremony

I Cbren,

Command th' afSdance of a faithful fr.end,
Dryici.
Vtwifttilc arc the fuccours I can fend.
Hlw 1 have lov'd, excufc my falt'ring mn^ue j

A provincial ufe.

To make fat.

J.

The men carried all the fetile t;poo alTet to Jericho.

to entertain ; to keep from

The alteration of fcenes, fo it be without noife,
feeds and relieves the eye, before it be full of the
fjmeobjedt.
Bacon.

1

ftrength of body i-! mind.

;

faticty.

Sbakrfp,

hire.
There's not a thane of them but in his houfe
iibttk,fi<curc't Maciclh.
I have a fei vaiityie ./.

debilitated;

To delight

6.

iii

j^E'KBI.E. adj.

to cherilh.
How oft from pomp and ftatc did I remove,
Tofifd defpair, and cherifh hopclcfs love ? Frior,
;

BarbarolTa learned the Ifieiigth of the emperor,
itihWy feeding him vi'ith the hope of liberty.

Andy^rr the doiStor ; but too late is wife, ^r^i/eff.
bribe ; to hire; topurchafe.
1

Ahriimey.

The fipft will fpoil the graft; for which reafon
take care tafcei it clofc before Winter.

No man/Iej the fun, r.o man purchaTes the light,

to

to conftime by cattle.

;

heart.

0.ivici.

from the noun.

To reward; to pay.

1.

To graze

Once in three years ye-f^/ your mowing lands, if
vou cannot get manure conllantly to keep them in

as all his lifelimc

hatred,

after he was pofiell with fear.

To FEE. V.

2.

To fuppiy; to fornifh.

conliant fmokc rifesfrom the warm fpringsthat
fcei!\hc many baths with which the ifland is floclced.

Portion ; pittance ; fhare. Obfolete.
In pruning and trimming ill manner of trees,

ti(h.]

To fuppiy with food.
Her heart and bowels through her back he drew,
Audy'n/ the hounds that help'd him topurfue.

Shjik. Hcrt.

FEE.

genual

To FEED, f, a. [fodait, Gothick; peban,
pocban, Saxon.]

Have tum'd my captive Itate to liberty,
Atour enlargement whai are ihy due /<f« f

n. f. [peoh, Saxon; fee, Danifti,
cattle; fevdum, low Latin : fiu, Scot-

;

Like mine, thy gentle numbers'yre.^/)' creep.

1.

Sbai(ffe.ire

Weakly;

Thy tragick mufe gives fmilcs, thy comick deep,

Now that Clod and friends

adj.
l.atin.]
\faderatus,
joined in confederacy.

Leagued

[from feeble]
without ftrength.

fons in office.

an accomplice.

of

Dryden^

Rnyments occafionally claimed by pcr-

4.

[from fardnJ, Latin.]

She's a traitor, and Camillo is
Kffdcfary with her.

Fe'de»ate.

Not helping, death's my J't'e;
But.if I help, what do you promife me >

Weak-

want

infirmity ;

Fb'ebly. adv.

Livings in courts begotten, though full hard ;
tluhbert.
for nothing there is done without ifee.

Htmm,

[{torn feeble.']

A belter head Rome's glorious body fits,
llian his that ihakcs for age zni feehUnffi.
ShaJk.
Some in their latter years, through the feebltneft
of their limbs, have been forced to lludy upon their
South',
knees.

VVliat concern they }

It isayf^frj/rite

imbecility ;

ftrength.

The general caul'c ? or is it ay^t'-grief.
Shake/peart.
Due to fomc fingle breHft ?
j. Reward J gratification; recompenfe.

The Romans compelled them,

ncfs ;

Property; peculiar.

2.

adj.
[from fadut, Latin,]
Relating to a league or contract.

wont to be.

^e'ebleness. «. /.

Here's the Lord of the (oil come to feizc me for a
dray, for entering liliyJif-fiuiple without leave.
Sbukfjf. U,my.y\.

Damn'd paper!

Fk'deral.

Warn them that are unruly, comfort Xhtfeehltminded, fupport the weak, be patient toward all men.

Co-wcl.

Now like a h« ycr, when he land would let.

[ftrJus, Latin, or from
This word, peculiar to ShaL-

Black as the ink tliat's on thee, fenfelefj bauble
Art thou ifrfiary for this acl, aad lookeft
So virgin-like without ? Shakfff^rare^x Cxmbilinf.

.

and the heirs

of tlieir two bodies.

». /.

Jetidam.^

FEEBLEMl'NDED,*ai//. [feeble and mind,'\
Weak of mind ; defeftive in refolution
and conftancv.

/Jt'-tail

fpecial, is that where a man nnd his wife

JDevouring Jogs the hclplefs infant tore.

tliofe

And her foundation forc'd andyic^'jif quite.

of our

a man, arid the heirs of his body :

For on the grafly verdure as he lay.

And breath'd the frefhnefs of jhe eaxly day,

I.

that

heirs

fpecial : general is where land is given to

feed.

,

Is undermined from the lowelV ground.

for ever: fee-x^^\ is that whereof
we are feifed to us and our heirs, with

heirs

could hive made a bigger ; the fccundUy of his cre2the power never growii-y barren, nor being exT:aufed.
Benllew

'

FEE

FEE

FEE
God couM never create fo ample a world, tul fie

Bloivn.

We feds OA fruits, wliitfh of their o\Vn aocord.
The willing groundsand laden trees iifford, Drydat.

m

Tlic Itiaclimans were ail of the fame race, lived
luily upon rice, milki or

fields and woods, aoij fed

herb*.

'Ittr.ple.

FEE

FEE
Mfeid on nne vain patron, and enjoy

To p;\llurc

3.

i

;

put in

to place cattle to feed.

liis

heart,

and

To know

6.

out feet.

To FEIGN,

The fenfe of

Fefi.. n.f. [from the verb.]
the touch.
feeling

M'^riimcr'i Htijt.

el iefi

[feinJre, French ; /ugo,

a.

-v.

birdti

Camden.

Latin.]

Shgkeffenre Henry VIII.

•heiryliiis much cheaper, becaufe they eat no

f

called Allerions,

Ai)d found the bleffednefs of being little.

:

Beingvrith-

Geoffrey of Boulloin broched three
upon his arrow.

His overthrow heap'd happinefs upon hitn s
For then, .indnot till then, he/f/r himfelf,

H'ldne)).
tremor through. all hvr principal pans,
An old worked o» fati as well as a young one

Fe'etless. aJj. [{torn feet 4]

to be acquainted with.

;

Pi^pe.

fears.

E'eryV/jfuchgtief, fupK terrwr, aoddefpair.
Pofe.

with a (hrujging kind ol

oats.

The plural of /«./.
His brother's image to his mind appears.
Inllames his heart with rage, and wings hisyr^rwiih

P/>f'.

Feed. tt. f. [from the verb.]
1. Food; that wlijch is eaten.
A fearful deer then looks mptl about when he
beft fted,

FKET. «./.

NoF youthful kings in battle feia'd alive,

ufe.

comes to the

:

He bell can paint them who an feel ihenj inoll.

A provincial

To grow fat or plump.

^.

Ol feii ilie flatteries that grow upon it
Shaki/pcjre HiBiyVlll.
The well-fung woes (hall foolh my penfive gholl i

another njan's
F.x.XTiW.v.

(hall feri in

Held, he Ihjil nialte rtllilutioii.

;

Would I had never trod this Eiiglilh earth,

man ilull caufe a field <.o be eatep, and ihall

1'

1

To be affeSed by

5.

P»ft.

Tl)' cxrenfive Mcffiog oi hit luxury.

F E L
This is no flattery ihefe are counfellon,
Thufeclingly perfuade me what I am. Shakt^,
He feelingly knew, and had trial of the late
Raleigh.'
good, and of the new putchafed evil.

to perceive tpentally.

To invent

I.

by an aft of the

to image

;

mind.

;

Paaure.

2.

The dirt'erence of thefc tumours .will be diftin«
Hdarp'i Surgery.
guilhed by the feel.

Bcfides his cote, hisflocks and bounds o^ fetd

Shake/ftart's At you like it.

Are now on file.

Plenty hung
Tempting fo hi;"h, to pluck and eat my fill
I fpaied

One tkat feels.

1.

This hand, whofe touch,
Wliofe ev'ry touch would force thtfeelrr'i foul
To th oath of loyalty. Shahfpcan's Cymbeline.

not ; tor fiich ple^fure till that hour

Milton.

hxjtcdat fountain never had- 1 found.

Fe'eder,. a./,

'

The horns or antennae of infefts.

2.

[from yjfd'.J

Infers clean their eyes with their forelegs as well

One that gives food.

i.

as antenna- i and as they are perpetually feeling and

The bead obeys his keeper, and looks up.

fearching before them with their /cr/«i or antennw,
cleaning
I am apt to think that befides wiping and
the eyes, the ufes here named may be admitted.

Not to his mailer's, but hiiy«</er's hand.
Dtnbam..

O wretched ftate of man in felf-uivifion

Thy wailing words do much my fpirits move.

One that cats in a certain mode; as, a
fuce fieefer, a gnf.i feeder.
Kut luch Ww.: feeden are nogucils for me ;
Riot agrees not with frugality
Then, that unfa(hionable man am I,
With »ie they'd Itarve for want of ivory. Dryden.
<v.

I

had

2.

See Feeler.

|"hcy lliould feek the Lord,

if happily they might

Aclt.

tight or wrong.
Pope..
Man, viho/riU for all mankind.
4. To appear to the touch.
Blind men fay black /«/( rough, and white fth

And not, iifiling, through

Tfl

Feel. •v. a.

1.

To perceive by the touch.
Suffer mc that I may /fi/ the pillars.
;

jfudgei.

Sl/akefptare.

honour.
_

To have perception of.

3.

The "ir is fo thin,
//rj. of

hufRlfby.
4...

that a bird has therein nofee/-

h« wings, or any refinance of air to. mount

dence of fenfe, fo we learn what belongs to the foul
by an inward conlcioufnel's, which maybe called a

The princes might judge that he meant himfc!f,
Xidniy.
who (f.\ktU'fi>lingiy.
He would MM have talked (ofeling/y of Codrus's
bed, if there had been room for a bcdidlow in it.
P'^pe

Rultigh.

Ncr did they not perceive the evil pitght
In, which ihey were, or the faticc pains tiotfee/.
Millar:.
But why. (hould ihofc be thought to (i:ape, whofce/

TWc lod^ St fcorpious ar.d thole whips of (tccl

?

Creech.

2.

Here feel we but the penally of Adam,

The fcafon's difference ; as the icy pliang.
And chuililh chiding of the Winter's wind.
Which when it bites and blows upon my body,
Ev'n 'liU I Ihrink with cold,

1 lmile«iid fay,

natural relilh of

Uickt.

pearance of it.
n. f. [feint, French.]
falfe appearance; an offer

Feint,

A

1.

of fome-

ihing i>ot intended to be.
Courtl) 's letter

2.

but .ifeixl to get off. Speflatcr.

i.-^

an appearance of aiming
;
one part, when another is intended to

A mock alVault
at

be flrutk.
hui, ill ilic brcaftencamp'd, prepares
For we!l-bicd _/<';»« and luturewars

Fe'landhrs.

u. f.

P'i&r,

Worms in hawks.
Ai'ifivorth,

To FELrciTATE. v. a. [feliciier, French;
felicito, l.at.]
I.

So as to be fenfibly felt.

its

.wd is reconciled inlenlihiy 10 any
thing ihat can be but dieffed up into any feint ap-

If alls.

Ft'KLlNGLY. ai/'v. [dovn feeling.]
1, With exptcflion of great fcnlibility.

To have fenfe of external pain or pleafure.

or /</«/,

real, (olid iruth,

fenfibility.

Huetn.
by their owiiyrf/i>^, they cannot find it.
As we learn what belongs to the body by the evi-

^en Jonfin

[from feig'i, for
Counterfeit;
Fr.]

'Ihe mind by degrees lofcs

Their kii^g, out of a princely /<'f//»g, was fparing
ISacun,
and compMliuuate towards lijs lubjeds.
Great perfons had need to borrow other men's opinions to think ihcmlijives happy; for if they judge

fort of internal feeling.

He hath writ this to fell my affeftion to your

feigned;
feeming.

SItakfpiuiv's Richard ]\.

to found.

things feigned, the
poem, the pocfy,

the

and the poet.
participial adj.

Feint,

Gives but the ptntrfeling to the woi le.

'

the. doer;

feigning and the feigner j fo the

all parts d'fFus'd,

The apprchenlion ol the good,

;

Xbarf.

Bacon,

Ini'Cnter ;

And thefe three voices differ ; all the things doftc,
the doing and

Powerofaftion upon fenfibility.

3. Perception ;

found to have been falfely and feignedly

contriver of a fidion.

Milion.
2.

is

Fe'ignfr. ?/. /. {Uom feign.]

So obvious and fo eafy to be quench 'd.

'

the other more fvcn, flatuienland Ipriiigji.

Such

in fume of the heathens.

.

Drjden.

Of thcfe tumours one yirA flaccid and rumpled

not truly.

To fu;h a tender ball as th' eye confin'd j

evil,

To try

/

Swhtft-

hviari.

Thatihe might look at will through every p..re ?

To fea?chby feeling.

fmoolh.

Ft'ioNEDi.y.<7(/x'. [ixomfeigr!.] In fittion ;

The fenfe of touch.
Wjy was the fifht

1.

To ha\c a quick fenfibility of good or

2.

•^hukfffjearn

Shakefpeart.

feeling fenfe

Strikes through my

of things by the

to

the invention ; to tell faTherefore the poet

Of all your rov al lavours ; but this laft

u.

ThcJ^enfe oife/itrg^ can give us a notion of extcnfion, Ihape, and all other ideas that enter at the eye,
AJdifin^s .Spef}.
-eavcpt colours.

j.

fallely ;

lyiAfeign that Orpheus drew trees, itoney, and flood ;
Since nought follockilh, hard, and full of rage,
Lut mufick. for the time doth change his nature.

Fe'elino. n f. [fromyi'f/.]

/«y alter him, andtindhim.

relate

Shakef-p.
That mav difcover fuch integrity.
This fenfe is not fufficiSenfibiy felt.
ently analogical.
A moll poor man mide tame to fortune's blows.

touch.

2,

To

».

image from
buloudy.

Am pregnant to good pity.

[piilan,

'

To Feign, t.

Write 'till your hik be dry, and with your tears
Moiil it again ; and frame (ome feeling line.

Who, by the art ol known and /ff/i/'g furrows.

:

pret. /i//; part. paff. felt.

arc in fuch a feeling faihion.

Sidney.

2.

Now ob-

conceal.

Each trembling leaf and whiftling wind they hear,
Asghatlly bug their hair on end does rear;
Vet both do llrive their fcarlulneCs xafci^n.Fair^ ^ettt.

!

SlJuey.

We

10

;

folete.

Thy tongue hath made o( Cupid's deep incifion
They uttered

To differable

4.
!

O well thou fay'ft xfeling declaratio.i

But that our feafti
In every mefs have folly, and x\\tfredeis
with
It
as
a cullom, 1 Ihould bl.ilh
]ert
Shakeffeare.
'I'o fie you fo attired.
meet in Ariltotle with one kind of thruth,
called tJic inilTel thrufli, ox feeder upon milTello.
hroxutt's I'rilgar En-oien.

feigns a laugh lo fee hie fearch around,.

And by that laugh the willing fair is found. Pope*

Exprelfive of great fenfibility.

1.

Sbatefp.

1. 'I'o

Mc gentle Delia beckons from the plain.
Then, hid in Ihades, eludes her eager fw^in ;
VinX.

With eager feeding, food doth choak iht feeder.

Saxon.]
have perception

falfe pretence.

Fe'elino. participial aJj. [fromyi'f/.]

One that eats.

Tc FEKL.

To make a Ihew of; to do upon fome

3.

Deria-n'l Phyfin-Theolcgy.

When thou do'lt hear I am as 1 h^ve been,
Apprivach mc, and thou (halt be as thou was''.
Sbakr/p.
The tutor and theJtrJerot my riots.

4.

To

I

2. An.exciter; an encourager.

3.

Gorgons, and h]hlras, and chimasras dire
Millfi,
No fuch things are done as thou fayeft, but thotf
djl
them
out
of
thine
own
feign,
heart.
l^cb. vi. S.
make
a
fhow
of.
e»
Both his hands, moft filthv feculent,
Above the water were on high extent,
Kai feigned to wadi themfelvcs incelTantly. /".i^.
!

Fe'fler. ti.f. [from_/>f/.]

Meal ; aft of eating.

3.

Abomina'alc, inutterable, and worfe

Than fables yet h^vefeign'd, or fear conceiv'J,

To make happy.
I

profefs

Myfclf an enemy to all other joyi

And find I am Aonefeliciiate
In y out dear highnefs' love.

Shakefpeare.

F E L

F E L

What a glarlous enMrtaimnenf and"pleafui« v,t\iM
fill

and /./iWwrf his

a linsle I'urvey

fpitit,

it'

!

be couU jnfp a'l in
IVeut.

2, To congratulate.
They might procfeJ unto forma of fpeeclies,
.

or dcp reci.tting the

gooJ,

Jelkiiating the

evil

'

Felicitation-. ». /. [French, from
Congratulation.

citaitf.]

down.

FiLi'ciTousLY.

adv. [from felicitous .1
Dili.
Happily.
Fsi.l'ciTV. n.f. [ feJti-ifa 1,1-Jitin; frlicite,
Ihppincfs ; prosperity ; btifiifulFr.]
bleliediMsrsa.

.

Since thou art laid down, no fcUer

Fhll'iflWovs.

.*

Lite a

Latin.]

cat ; pertaining to a cat.
Even as in the braver; from which he differs
priacipally in hit teeth, which are canine, and m
n:s tail,

JELL. (7///.
1.

i

-y^ //«i-,

'

Cruelty;

Thofe
as

Felloe,

[felge,

I

Aile-trees,

roives, fcllott,

molten.

Shai.fp„fc.
and fpokes were all
K!?f<.

Ft'LLOW. ». f [t/uaf, to follow,

Saxon.]
Cruel; barbarous; inhuman.
('pelle,

from pt,

fhe-iu;

Itfeemed fury, difcord, midncdj'./l.
Flew from hif lap when he ujifotds the firar.

Saxon,

1

I

:

faith,

KJilir.iv by the hind ol nature mark'd,

I

Qr^otcd'i ajiJ fign'J to do a deed of

\

Some bale notorious knave, fome fcurvj ///c:!'

ravenous ; Uoody.
Tlut indant was I tum'd intn a hart.

2. Savage ;

The frUmu l-.ad taken more
fpend while ihcy were f«eet.

than iie could
L'EjIrange.
As neittof kin, Achillea' arms I claim;

t'er finee purfue me.
Sbakfff. Txt^e/ftb Night.
I know thee, love
v»iW as the raging maiii,
tifnn/e/l than lygqrs on the Lybiaii (dain.
Pofr.
Sojrning all the taming arts ot man.
The keen hy-na, fillrjl of ihe/f//.
Thomftn.

Upon our Itock, and the Sityphian feed
By Iraud and theft adefis his fathei's breed, rJryJeit.
You will wonder?iow luch an orJinary_/i//&U', as

bouild,
fall<rui, Scottilh.]

\

fe.tl.

'

Or, cubler-like,' the parfon will be drunk,
Worth makes the man, and want ot it tht fellaiu i
The ic;t is all but leather and prunella.
Pi-pr.

5.

Fill. »./. [pill*, Saxon. J
bide.

J.

fame

Would at a difmal ireatife route and Itir.

Sbakeff.

A member of a college that Ihares its

reveniifs, or of any intorpo'-ated fociety.

;

There Uiould be a million of th.-ee ol the/r//fcitJj
ot btftbrcn ot Solonwn^ houlV, to i;ive us knowledge of the affairs and' llate of tliole countries i;o
which' they were Jefig.i-^d.
Baetn.

Uliukrff.

Up and down he traverfcs his giuund;
Now iiuiiiJtlUfig blow, DOW llrike< again.

So ) ou are to be hereafter JMovii, and no longer

Taking the fnull end of his mulket in hiv hand,
he Dr'uck him on the head with tJw (lock, uni/ctUJ
him.
Raliigb.
ftruck an earthijuakc

the vulgar be induced to

lel.eve he was J\lliJ.
tJn their whole heft I flew

H<.uri.

Utunn'd, and with a trivial *t»^ia(ifrll*J
Their choicetl )0«iih , they only liv'il who fled.
MilloH.

along.

.

5.

Drydtn.

To ht:w down; «o cut down.
Then wouid hefeem a fatmer th^t would fell

Baijaiai of woodi, wJiii.b lie did lately///,

lluii.

a.

to

inafch."

or equal

to another:

as,

He cannot appropriate. In: cannot incli.fe, without the confext at all hi* flidW-cominanerx, all
mankind.
Luckt.
2.

A commoner ar C^tibriilge 6f the higher
ortitrr,

who dines with the iellows.

Rc.lb.i is the glory of
I

a very valiant/c/Ztlt'. Sbakff.

An oHiccr was in danger to have loll his place,
wile

made hi> peace ^ whcicufon a

human nature, and one of

the thief eminencies w Iit-reby we arc raifcd above our
fetiit'^-ctuxluycsy tl,e brutis, in ilns lower world.
H'att!,*i tAgitky lnty6.iufiUK.

[

'

pica-

n.f. Coheir; partner of"
the fame inheritance.
'Khe f;rnt;li'. fliould br/Z/oto 4«Vj. Rph, \\\, C\

Frr.i.owui'i.pLR.

». y.

Coadjutor;

oif:

who concuirs in the fame bufinefs.
We ought to lecciic fuch, tliat we might htjil-

This is Othello's ancient, as I lake it,
;

that has

the fame creator.

KE'LLoW-HtiH,

A familiar appellation ufcd fometimcs
with fondnf fs ; fometimcs with cftcci'n ;
but generally with fome degree of coivtempt.

but bi«

Sbakeffiare.

Fellow-i.u'mmoner. n.f,
1. One who has the fame right of common.

this

knave hath not his/c/.Vtf.

—The fame indeed

to
often

Imagination,

lidalfiilf r KfrftaUr.

One like

is

Wiih whji's unreal, thou co-ailive art.

And/// -lu;^ no; lung.

yi^LLow-CR-KATuRE. n.f. One

When virtue 'vs lodgel in a bodv, that fcems fo
have been prepared lor the reception ol vice ; ihc
foul and the body do not feeeuv to hf-fJlvtux.
6.

with;

F;-'li(ni'

ufcd in compofition to mark community
of nature, Ibtion; or employment.

'

One thing fuited to another; one of a
p.lir.

7.

Whbin with fuch f.>tce he ftrKk hcftll'd hm <Uvm,
And cleft the r:rile uf his golden crown.
J),yJin.
I fell'daUng a man of bearded face.

'V.

pair with ;

Sidjtty.

Chieftain of the reft
I chofe him here: the eanh (hall him ajjowj
YWtJitUcnui late, (hall be l,is fuSjctts uuw
t'airf.xx.

2. It fcems improperly joined with <(W« or

His limbi ail cover'd with a Ihiiiing cafc.

Equal; peer.

fervants.

Dankl.

for the prefent,

VHJliM^e.

htsyrZ/oTfj.

4.

To fuit

To Fe'li.ow.
,

:

;

Villain, lland, or I'WftU thee down.

One of the fame kind.

Think themfclvej i.ijui'd that tlicy cannot reign;
And own no liberty, bit where they may
Without controul upon \'ix\t fclLwt prey.
K\tlltr.
A (hcpherd had one favourite d ig he led him with
his own hand, and took more care of him ihan o(

I

To Fell. -v. a. [fcUen, Gernjan.]
1. To knock down
to bring to the ground.

f.

in the

Let partial ipirits dill aloud complain,

Sbakifptart,

The lir.ie has been my ler.fes would have cool'd
To heara iiljht-lliriek ; and my /rlloi hair

into all minds; nor cuuld

JO.

ilayivtird.

i>t\tter,

Drydtfi^s Vlrgtt.

Ere they Ih.iil make us weep.

fall,

then ihsfiUiv cried out t.'wt
was uui the miller, but the miller's man.

Each on \\\iftllviv for alTiftance calls
At length the laial fabrick mounts the wall;.

Theikin; the

The go'jjeni (hall devour ihem, tlefb andyr//.

Hij

Uf> on tlie iicarell tree :

affair.

Not ufed.
Wipe thine ejre

Sometimes it implies a mixture of pity
with contempt,
Ihe pruvoft cimminded his men to li.ing him
lae

,

!

An alfociate; one united

Sxuift.

.

You'll find,' if on^e the monarch a£ls the monk,

I

1

WMfeilwf' s hindrance in purfuit of love?

Wood,, could have got his Majeily's broad

this .Mr.

One foul (linuld both intpire, and neither prove
2.

fi(h

This fdl'^tv would ingraft a foreign namo

;

I

Have we nut plighted each our holy oath,
That cut (liould be liie common good of both ;

And mydefiKs, likc/r// and cruel hounds,

.'

'Shakr/i>/aye.

I

'

Some trick not worth an egg, fiiall grow dear friends.

Ihamc,

my mind. Sbakeff.
Tiic MoOr's abus'd by fome moll villainotjs knave.

T1115 iniirjcr lud nor come into

j

li»j,

had twelve ///wt like untn mylVlf,
but not one of tt>em came to a good call.
AJcbam.
To be 'j<yiiX felI'rw
You may deny nii ; but I'll be yourfcrvant.
Whether you will or no.
Sbattff. 'Tcmftfi.

To take the-one tire other, by fome chance.

Shakefp,
deeds,

ill

Makes dc'ods ill done? For had'li ihou not been by,

j

'

In youth

death by their
Hidney.

-

and

fort.

,

Whofe paflions and wholic plots have brake their fleep,

pU-afed the

AnJ lei't me in rcputelcfs baiiilhment,
A/'//i,TOof no markor liktlihood.

Aff/r-

A companion; one with whom we con-

1.

Kitirfitx,

iyafflltfi fot%.

"fiiitiiii;

make them fuller

it

B) Rodor;go, inifcllou'i that are Tcap'd. Shukefp,
I
iiave great comfoii fiom this/Z/sw; inethinks
he hath no drowning mark about him ; his compleiio'ii is pcrlciS gallows
Sbahjpeare'a Ttmftji,
Ojjinion that d:d help m? to the crown,
Had Itjll kept loyal to polkiTioii

j

And bowl the rouad uave down the bill of hcav'n.

'

them,

receiving

Calfio hath here been fct on in the dark

I

'

into their net,

hands,

!

I

fcornfally

birds ijllcn

How oft the fight" of mcar\s, to do

Out, out, ihmi rtniin|,ct Fortune all you gods,
In general fynod, lake away her p4wei ;
Break all the fpokcs tnifllici from her wheel,

Crnu.

or a lone taper,

n.f,

great fiUov.')

eternal Jultice to

'

Danilh.j
'J he circumference of a wheel; the outward part.
It is often written fnlly ar felly.

I

fooiilh

'

fury ; rage.

For vtry/*///ir/j- loud he 'gan to weep. Fairy Sh'C'n,

Mlltt>n.

to the delires of a reafiNiakle nature, is revealed to
Ro^j,
otr iiopes in the gofpcl

hich

[from ///.]

When his brother law the red blood trail

How great, how glorious ^fcUnty^ how adcijuale

\\

A dialer

n. f.

fav.igenefs ;

,

Atterbury.

\_feliMiis,

n.f. [froray://!]

contempt; the foolifh
the mean wretch ;
the forry

'

\

IFe'llness.

may be com-

plete.

nt!j.

/)/'<*.

Prisr.

of

rafcaJ.

Adown fo fail, and ail his armour lleep.

But virtue join 'd with riches and long life.
In eorpoml pleat'urv ho,- and cjrelefs eafe;

Fe'line.

[fel zndjJat, Lann.]

in hides.

C>thcTs in virtue ylic'ifeticitji

'

aJ/.

Flow ing with gall.

word

mortal

//. xiv. 8.

Fe'llMongek.

'Yhtft-licitiei of her uonderlul reign

come up

is

againlt us.

.

Being with thy dear Mood clean walli'd Irom iin*
S^tnffrU Sont/ett,
May live for ever \\\fiticity.

A

.

Fe'ller. u.f. [{rom fell.] One that hcw's

But.

;

Each was a Hercules, you tell us,
^Vet out they march'd like common men,

None on their fcjt might (lard.
Though (landing c'n'e ii rocks; but down ihtyfffl
By thoufands, angel on aichang^l roll'd.
AJjiio/i,

/;/;-

Dre7.

The joyous d ly, d<Mr T.orrf., with Jof-begin,
And grant t!>atwe, lor whvioMhua dtJaftdie,

With fire and fword the fort maintain

The preterite of To fall.

Fell.

FELIGITOUS. aJ;. {fiiix, Lat.] Happy.

nefs

fanlyv//o7o faid, that he had been cruAied, but that
he faved himfelf upon his horns.
Bacon.
Full filieen tlioufaiid \aAy fellows

Vrydm.

to

Bnyun.

follow.

F E t

Proud ATcite and fierce Palamon,
In mortal haitle doubling blow on blow;
Like lightning flam'd their faulchions lo and fro,
And ihot a dreadful gleam ; fo ftrong they ftruck.
There feem'd Icfs force rtquii'd to/// an oak.

I

low-helpin to the truth.

j ydiii, i.

Fellow-i.a'bourer, «./. One who labours
.

in the fame Jefign>

into his polfeinon, to be ufed foi the common gwiJ i
for men ate made for focietj and r.viUM\ftll<iV.Jbif.

Cjlamy't Srrim/ls.

One that has

». /.

'

the fame mailer.
Nor Ill's think we in heav'n of thee on caitht
and inquire

Thjtn at ovrfcllorv-ferv^it ;
Ciljdly into the ways of God with man.

''

Mitlm.

If'jli'ft.

Imilfliif, never any folemn agreement amongftthera-

One who fights

men.

Molt of the other Chriftian prince* were drawn
into the /(•//sii;^/! of that war.

Shakfff,

O

in the fame

under the fame mafter.
1 pry'thee do not mock me, fella-w-Jludent
Skakeffiare's HamlH.

clafs,

Tf j-ou have t\o ftlhtv-JluJint

Fellow-subject.

at

hand,

tell

One who lives

«. /.

ftate of

fure.
In a great town friends are fcattired, fo that there
is aotthM/eh'ow/lip which is in lels neighbourhoods.

Kvas a feather in the balance with their private ends.

crime.
1 will make \X felony to drink fmall beer.

Sbakefpeare* I tUnry VI,

It were a delicate ftratagem to (hoe

A troop of horfc viVnfelt.

themfclves to the reputation of their ft-ihiv-'writen, they muft fink it
to their own pitcli, if they would keep thcmfelves

they

cannot

proportion whereby wc bahince accounts,
depending between divers perfons, having
put together a general (lock, fo thift they

may every man have

raife

upon a level with them.

AddiJoH.

FElLOW-FEli'uNtJ.

». /. '^fAlo'W Z.Viit feel-

degree of inhumanity not to have a
frltow-fctliiig of the miifoiiuiie ol my bro;her.
It is a high

VEjliangr.

Combination ; joint intercft: commonly

z.

in an ill fenfe.
Kven your milkwoman anJ your nurferymaid have

Fe'llowly.

/

and like.}
companion; on

[fellow

ad],

Like

a

;

Felo-de-se.

1 appiehcnd thee for ay^/on here,

rujftr.

«./.
;

[(tomfcllciu.']

confort ; fociety.

This boy cannot tell what he wouIi<have
But knecli and holds up hands ioijtih-u'jhip.
,

Shatr/fcart.

Fromblifsful bow'rs
Of amarMtine (hade, fountain, or fpring,
By th' waters of life, where'er ihey lat
1 n fiUivJhift of joy, the fons of light

Hailed.

Milun's Paradi/e Lofl.

A whitlow

2.

;

the bone and
Tery painful.

A (he

Latin.]

brings young

Did.

Cod

created

;

one of the fex which

not male.
inan in his own image, ma!e and
;

(Tm. i. 27.
ycMii/f created he ihcm.
of the herd, whether it b.m le or
1 1 he oiVer it
Lev,
fcinjle, he ihall oti'cr it without b.emilh.
Men, more divine,

Ate malters to their /i«W«, and their lords.
Sbakefp.

Fe'male.

adj*

Not male.

1.

Miltm.

FrmaU of fex it fecms,
bwarmiop next appearM

ThefemaU bee, that feeds her hulhaiid drone
Milion.

Not mafculine; belonging to a ftie.

2.

ShakrJ'p,

Other funs, peihaps.

With their attendant moons thou wilt dcfcry,
Communicating in.ile M-)'\fu!uU light;
Which two great fcxcs auiniaic the v/orld.
Add what wants
\r\ female fex, the inoie to diaw his love.

formed betwceft
invcfling membrane,

Mil/of
Millvt^

He fcrupled not to eat
Ag.iinft his better kiiowleJgc, not dcceiv'd.

-

,

MiUtn.
But loudly overcome wiihyi'm^/f charm.
If by t female hand he had lortfecn
He was 10 die, his wiiti h.id rather been
The lance and double ax of the lair warrior tjiieen.

The m.ilign paronychia is that which is commonly
called ayt/orf.

Yr.fdkn, Arab.]

A fmall open boat with fix oars.

a tumour
its

[feleu,

n.f.

FE'MALE. n.f. [femelle, French; femella,

The wily toi,

yi'illnjrliov>lj neighbourhood I'cemcth not itrange.

Companionlhip

Fdtrfa^f,

Felu'cca.

Ch.is'd even amid' the lolds'j and made to bleed,
h\^t/eUns, where they did the mtird'rous deed.
DvydftJ.

One feed tor another to make an exchange

Hafe,

To clot

Indu'd wiihintelledual fenfe and foul.

He that

[In law.]

a. [flora felt.]

\i\sfiitred locks, that on his bofom fell,

,

Latin; y.A, tiaxon.]
One who has coininitted a capital crime.

1.

All which good pans he graceth with a good fi-lCureiv.
h'Jt'Hr, kind, and rcfpcOlul cjrtiage,,

I.

/

1?.

Oa rugged mountains briers and thorns refemble.

committeth felony by murdering himfelf.
FE'LON. ». /. [filoii, French; feto, low

equal terms; companionable.

Fe'llowship.

«.

a.

together like felt.

favagely ; barbaroufly.

Hunts alter blood, when he by chance dotli find
Spenftr.
A feeble beaft \iot\ifeUy him opprefs.

Arhuihftitt.

\fftU'w-fatii»g.

Fellowlike. "\

To Feltre.

.,

Fair ye be fuie, but ciiicl and unkind;
Asisatygcr, that with grccilincfs

,

-v.

weaves it into cloth, another into kerley.

Coder,
Fe'lly. adv. [Uorafell.'] CmdlJ'; inhulofs.

Sympathy.

J.

[from the noun.] To
unite without weaving.
The fame wool one man Jells into a hat, another

To Felt.

proportion.nl

bis

ifarrinier's Hujijndry,

the/fir bcloofe.

gain, or fuftain his proportional part ot

manly
'"Z-l

with

fhare in its revenue.
Corulbdes, having, by extreme parfimony, faved
thirty pounds out of a beggarly y>//oti^/f, went to
Svi/t,
London.
That rule of plural
9. [In arithmetick.]

One who writes
the fame time, or on the fame fub-

jeft.
Since

^W

An eftabliftiment in the college,

8.

Fellow-writer, n. /.
at

Shakeff. Kixg Lear,

A hide or Ikin.

2.

was grateful to all the company, made himlelf popuClarendon,
lar with all the officers of the army.

,

And

your grace was made tht\x filioiv-fhfferer ?
how glorious for you, that you cliofc to want rather
Dry. ten.
than not relieve?
Wc in fome meafure (hare the ntceflTities of the
poor at the fame time that we relieve ihem, and
ina'<e ourfclves not only their patrons h.it followAd.difon's Sftaalar.
fufferin.

wool united without

To know whether flicep are found or not fee that

and fondnefs for feftal enterprefixed.
tainments, with
He had by his eKceliive guid fellowjhif, which

7. Fitnefs

;

fame fufFerings with another.
How happy was it for thafe psar creatuiw, that

The preterite of Fefl, which fee.

Cloth made of
weaving.

1.

S-wift.

Fellow-sufferer. n.f. One who (hares
one who partakes the
in the fame evils

Spnifrr,

FELT. «./. [pelr, Saxon.]

V^nti onxfirlh-urjbip. But hark, a fail! Sbakf/p.
6. Frequency of intercourfe; focial plea-

under the fame government.
The bleeding condition of their fiUnv-fuijelli

am like for defpifrate dole to die,

Felt.

being together.

The great contention of the lea and Ikies

it

H^jils't Lagick.

over with your acquaintance.

;

Wicked.

Fe'lony. ». /. [felonie, French; felmia,
low Latin; from feloa.] A crime denounced capital by the law ; an enormous

!

Company

5.

li»'

Nox ufcd.

'

1

TiMjilloviifhip in pain divides not I'mart,
Nor lighten 'i aught each man's peculiar load.
P.trad!/e Regained.
thou ftemly doft thy power maintain,
love
And will not bear a rival in thy reign ;
Dfydex.
Tyrants and thou MJiUouJhiji dildaiii.

Ff LLOW-STUDENT. ». /. Ohc who ftudies

a felonious way.
.Fe'lonious. adj. [from feleit.]

Throughy;/o«oai force of mine enemy.

4. Partnerlhip ; joint intereft.
Nearer acquainted, no'v I feel by proof

Epajihroditus, my brother and companion in laPhil, ii.lj.
tour, iaifclUiu-folJier.

company with another,

KnaUa.

'

Felo'nioosly. adv. li'rom /eloaiouj.]

Equality.

3.

fellcw-falJler, make theu proclamation.
Comt, '

Ihoktr,

feWes.

An endearunder the fame commander.
.ing appellation ufed by officefs to their

in

Jn tliy dark lanthorn thus dole up the ftars
That nature hung in heav'n, and fill 'd the lamps
With everlafting oil, to give due light
Milttn.
To the milled and lonely traveller?
In thy/eioHhut heart though venom lies.
Drydeitp
It does but touch thy Irilh pen, and dies.

combination.

Aflbciation; tonfederacy;

That fe.irs hit /cJ/ciiJhif to d.e with us. Sbaki'/f.
Thofe laws do bind men ..bfolutely, even as they
are men, although they have never any -fettled /?/•

to operate among their funlving children. At'tibury,

'

Why (hotild'ft thou, but for (ome fihnlcus end,

Wc would not die in that maii'i company,^

Their fathers and yours were fttUvi-fervitnts to
the fame heavenly mafter while they lived ; nor m
that relation diflblved bv their death, but ought dill

,

O thievilh night!

_

2.

Ulltcit.

clouds.

the ncccliity to have y;//<,n/i;/> with 'thole of hil
own kind, but furnilhcd him alfo with language,
which was to be the great inftrument and cementer
Loche.
of fociety.

_

••

fiiTfellivi.fena'it! may youi gentle ear
Frove,inore propitious to my flighted care

Fbllow-soldier. ». /.

God having defigned man fir a fociabie creature,

made him not only with an inclinalion, and under
'
•"

:

•Thin tlie bright dames we ferve.

FEto'NfotJS. edj. [hovn felon.'] Wicked;
traitorous; villainous; malignant; perfidious ; deftruftive.
.This man conceived the Juke's death; but whif
was the motive of ihii /eimima conception is in th«

There is tio man but God puts exctUent thing!

'My /fJl*V!-lji<iuren hj»c eommiflianed me to
perform iii their behalf this office of dcjicition.
DryJen'l yuv. D'J.

Fellow. SERVANT.

F E M

F E L

F E I;

Ti'ijhnan'r Hurgtry.

adj. Cruel; traitorous; inhuman.
A) me! what thingun earth, thalall iliingsbrcedt,
Might be the caufe of fo impatient plight!
Wh.n fury, or what heiid \vithyJ-/«/ deeds,

Fe'lon.

Hath Itirred up lo 'milehicvous delpight

I

Sfen/tr.

Then bids prepare th' hofpitabic treat,
Vain lhe»>«t love (o veil hufeUrt hate.

P"?';

'-

'

Dryder*.

.

.

3.

Femalb

Rhymes.
Double rhymes fo
called becaufe in French, from which
the term is taken, they end in e weak or
Thefe rhymes are female:
fcqjinine.
xU-ej.
•

..

.

-<

FEN

FEN

Th' eiecefs of heat is but a fable
Wekr.ow the torrid zone i? qqw found haSitaSIe<

i

Thc/emale rbymts are in ufe with the Italian in
the Spaniard

FfME

woman

w ho

;

alfo

is

faid

Blount.

I.

ft.

He hath fenced up my
'n^fttdaiknefs in my paths.

place, upon the iacreafe or growth
thereof the mafculinc appears.
Hraisun.

"^"^
Tho

Fs'm n I N E. adj. [fcemiainui, Latin,
I. Of the fex that brings young; female.
I

cent rail or other inclofure.

CUaveland.

2. Soft; tender; delicate.
Herheav'r;ly form
Angelick, but more foft MAfaniniiu.

Jot, icix. 8.

me with (kin and flefh, and

hi\\ftnced me with bones and finews.
yr,i. .. . ^.
He went about to niake'a bridge to a Itrong city,
which Wis fenced about with walls. 2 Mae. jtii.
13.
See th jt the churchyard be fenced in with
a de-

Thus we chaftife tlvc god of wine
With water that \ij'tm}nine.
Until the cooler nymph abate

To guard

Ayliffe't Parergon.

lo J^ENCE

into Iwords, ar.J put into his
fervanti hands to
Willi,

Ml/ten.

Belonging to the thigh.
The larjeft crooked needle (houldbe ufed in takiot-

up KhefcmcraJ arteries in amputation.

Sharp.

!

ll a throllle fing,

Liicc to a lonely dragon, that W\tfen

The furface is of black/r-jr earth.
He to Ponlm's wat'ry marfhes went

Shal;.

10 put thera out of their patents view, at a
great
i.^m<e, a to ispofe them to the gre.iteft dangers
cf Iheir whole life, when they have
the leaft /i/r«
»<id guard againft them.

Let us bear this awful corps tn C*far,

Lccke.

And lay it in hii fight, that it may «and
t.fcnee betwixt us and the viflor's wrath.

mound;

hedge;

/IJdifin.

fortified

boundary.

of defence.

Th' tttini\fe/tcei overleap.

And pafs at will the boundlef; deep.
I

when you thought
'

[from fence.]

^iX.

/),.„ /,„
'

One who liolds his eilatc 'under the tenure
of

Of the vaft mound that binds the Lucrine lake >
Or the difdainfulfea, rh.,1, n.iit from ihenre,
'

at,i invaijtj \iu: fence /

iJrJlJtn.

lord.

To FEOFF.. ^. a., [fief, firffer, French
;
'1 o
feoffare, low Latin.]
put in poffeiiion ;

to invert with rightv

FEOfFi't.
;

Capable

Fe'ncivoschooi.. «.y, fence an^l fcfw/.]
[
A place in, which tUe uie
of weapon* is

and fcrvice to a fuperior

fuit

J/aamer-

:

n. f.
[>if"«//«.. Latin ; _/&//,
trench.]
One put in poffefTion.
The late cJil of Scfmond, before his brcakine

forth into

Md//i,n.

One who teaches the fcience of delcnce,
or the ufe of weapons.

Fei;

jjj^^

Ft'oval. adj. [fiodal, French, fro-mfeod.']
Held from another.
Fe'ouary. ». /. [from fodtcm, L.ntin.]

ocean.

rebellion,. conveyed fecrcily all his
l,i,i,i'
truft, in hope to have cut 08
hor ma-

tofeofees in

tc SCINCMA3TER. n.f [fenceani mtr/ier.l

n.eutinn make

Kuais toutd Oie rtjuclote,

tenure.

f

adj.

Sucked:

Shakeffeare's King Lear.

Mark all his wand'rinjs, and enjoy his frets;
As cunning/<w«-r fiilfer heat to lire.
Iferiert
A nimble /fwrr will put in a thruft fo quick,

fENCiBLE.

Shakeffeart-..

Dr'A^T^
thOD.n.
f. [feodum, low Latin.]

„.
[from fince.] One who
teaches or praiiifes the ufe of
weapons,
or fciencc of defence.
Calmncfs is great advantage ; he that lets
Another chafe, may warm him at his fire,

the foil will be in your bofom

^''""

Iirfeift her beauty,

from South. Ra-ac'iJareSljciie.

_''^:..«rdofr.

Jflvade th' inviolable main

Shall

'ENCER.

.

youfenfuck'd fogs, drawn by ilie powerful fun.

And heaves the billoivs of the boiling deep,

."Vlike )roni,Nortli,

lliai

!n vain did nature's wife command
Divide the waters from the land,
Jf daring (hips and men proplwne,

Without

:

,

.

out of marOies.

Each motion of the heart rifes lo fur/.

VEjirange.

,.

Fe'nnystones. »./. A plant.
Fe'nsucked. <7i!^'. [/f« andy;«.i.]

And love in their weak bofoms is a rajc
As terrible .« hate, and as dellruili', e

So the wind roars o'er the \i\i.e fencelef

I

Inhabiting the marfh..

Fillet of 3 Jenny fnake,
In the cauldron boil and bake.

Arhulbnot and. Pope.

,

l-fcNCELESS, adj. [from/e«ff.J
inclofure; open.

There's nnferut againft inundation;, e.irthnuakes,

2._IncIofure;

T
2.

learned alone tlian^fw/W^or cujgelplaying.
J,

Oef ^^ cf Piety.

•r hurricanes.

The hungry crocodile, and hifllng fiiake.
Lurk in the troubl'd ftream and/<-/;»j. brake.

Lode.
'Vktfe, being polemical arts,
could no more be

;

tJieir oppreffbrs.

Driving in of piles is ufed for ffone or bri.-*houfes, and that only where the ground proves ^k/»/
or moorilTl.
Mixun.

andgamederscompany.

And with a clear unfulij "d current glide«. AdJifcn.
Ft'?cberry. n. f. {fen and berry.'X A
kind of blackl-)erry.
Sitnmr.
F£ N c E. //./. [from defence.']
J. Guard
fecurity ; outwork
defence.
That proved not/«« enough to the reputation
of

A plant,

[ferula.]

;

,

Hbakefp.

the wood is bred ;

Aa man that cannot fence will keep out ofDryden.
bullies

H'oodivaiJ.

A longcanal the mudlyy^a divides.

;

Fe'nnelgiant. 7!,f.

Fe'nny, adj. [(rom
\ from fen.]
fe)i.\
Marlhy boggy ; raoorifli.

Engage their clartiing horns; with
dreadlul found
IJie lorcit rattles, and the rocks
rebound
Hicy/we and pu(h, and pulhing, loudly; rnar,
J heir dewlaps and their
tides are batli'd in gore.

go alone,

Makes fcir'd and taik'd of more than feen.

Mil'air.

The ftooping warriors aiming hjtai to head.

Meiico is a city that (lands in the midft ofa mat
latth or /™ .
/IHat '1 De/cripiion of the If orId.
I

111

A

hE'NNELFLowER.. w./. [nigal'a.] A plant.

he falls Itraight a capering

A beauteous hciier

moor; a bog.

Latin.]

A fav'ry odom- blown, moreplenj'd myfenCe

*

He wMJence with his own Ihadow.

{fcenkulum,

Than fmcUof fwectell /mk^/, or the teats
Of ewe, or goat, dropping wiiii milk at cv'n.

to be

low flat and moid ground ; a

;

To

n. f.

plant of ftrong fcent.

Lxke.
the de-

fnjed again*.
j^^^^,
3. To fight according to art, by obviating
^
r\lr\tipB •» ......11
blows
as well as givino-.

FEN. «./. [penn. Saxon; -vetinf, Dutch.]

A marfh

and bang one another.

Fe'nnil.

fence

guard againft; to aft on
fenfive.
Vice is the more (lubbom as well as the
more
dangerous evil, and therefore in the firft place

2.

Latin.]

S^femaralii,

A plant.

He having got fome iron, Ihould have it beaten

ih nature ? AiiJ not fill the world at once
adj.

Fe'nugreek. n. f. [fc^mtm Qreecum, Lat.]

to prat^iife the ufe of weapons.

why did Cod create at lall

Pe'moral.

midity from its temper, but feneration and ufury
from its fecundity and fuperfetation.
Braun.

T. ff.

To praftife the arts of manual defence;

1.

Ft'MiNiNE, »,/, A (he; one of the fex
that brings young ; a female.

With men, is angels, viMhoMX feminine f

Feker.4,'tion. ». /, {fceueratio, Latin.]
Ufury; the gain of intereft; the prafticc
of increafing money by lending.
The hart! figured not only pufillanimity and ti-

Dryden.

_. ,,

Nimias wa» no man of war at all, but altogether
feminine, andfubjedled to eafe and delicacy.
Ra/eigi's Hijicry.

Locie.

(hip to keep off violence,

;

Fenc'd from the tliorns, and trod the deep defcent.

linefs.

^ knowledge.

Fe'nder. »./. [fromfend.]

An iron plate laid before the fire to hinder coals that fail from rolling forwardto the floor.
2. Any thing laid or hung at the fide of a

With love fo friend, th' impatient lover went,

Milion.

This novelty on earth, this fairdefefl

The dexterous management of terms, and being
able to fend and prove with them,
partes for a great
part of learning; but it is learning
diltina' froia

1.

to fortify.
So much of adders wifdom I have learnt,
To fence my ear againft thy forceries.
Milicrn.

•

3. Effeminate ; emafculated ; wanting man-

'

hall clothed

16 difpute; to fiiift bff"

a charge.

Fairfax.
way that I cannot pafsj

femhality take

DrvJen

cold.

TohEHD.'v.n.

h' inhabitants each pallure and each

Before thou cam'il this kingdom to invade.

If in the minority of nature! vigour the parts of

His wrath, and fo concorporate.

Spread with draw the bedding of thy fold,
Wiith fern beneath tofendihe bitter

plain
Deftroyed have, each field to wafte is lade
in fenced zovtcn beitowed is thiir
grain.

Female nature.

() !

off; to (hut out.

To inclofe; to fecure by an inclofure or
'1

ground.
To ke
ieep

/oFend. <u. a. [hom defend.]

Sbaiefpeare.

hedge.

f.

An

n. /.
[grniota!j>a.]
infeft that digs itfelf holes in the

To I'ENCE.T.'. a,

[French.]
A fingle woman ; an unmarried woman.
Fimina'litv. «./. \itoxafoimma, Latin,]

Fkmi; .Jo/^.

Fen-cricket.

^ „

be under

covert baron.

-"^

I'llprcve itou his body, if he dare,
Defpight his nice_/e/.« and his aSive praflice.

A married
to

I had ra.
thcr inine ihould be a good wrelllcr than
an ordinary
fencer, which is the moft a gentleman
can attain
to, unlcfs he will be
conftantly in ^he: lencinfjchoo/,
"
and every day exercifing.
L-che

Pope.

defence.

4. Skill in defence.

Dryden'sPrcf. I'j Arn. Mirab.
n. f. [French.]

Tf a man be to prepare his fon for duds,

I bruifed my Ikin ih'
other day, with playing at
(word and dagger witha mailer offence.
Shakern.

promifcuoufly, and
with the French alternately, as appears from the
Alarii^ue, the Pucelle, or any of their later poems.

Ca-vert.

pals \Y,cfe/ites and furprife ihe fair.

The art of fencing;

Cou</ey,

every line, with

F E O

Employ their wiles and unavailing care,

jclty Irom the efchcat of his lands.

J'e'offer.

n.

f

[/^iffl/or, J«v

Sj^fc.
J.atin,T

One V. ho gives poaellion-ofatiy thing..'
'

See l''roi'-i'Mr.wT.

Fi'orFMENT.

,.../.

[fi„ffHme„t,m, Latin.]

i lie aijt of granting pufll-flion.
I

Any

F E R

F E R

F E R

ikaygifl orgrini of any honours, caflleii Umli, or
»ther iinm.>veahle thing>, tu another in fee fimiilc,
that is, to him and hij heiri forever, by the delivery
of feifin ot the thing given: when it is in writii)S,

which works them into « finef hodv,
4nd mdke> them much clearer than they were
before.
CMkrtfFritndJkrf.

Ferru'cinous. adj, [femi^iittux, French ;

is called a deed oi fe'jffmcm \ and in zitx-jfcofmertt the givsr is called the (toSor, fc(iff.Uc», and
he that recciveth by virtue thereof the feoffee,
The proper difference bctv»een a feolfer
fc<ijfattu.
and a donor is, that the feofi'er gives in fec-limplc, the

And livelyyif«»ir/T/<i//&*, mounting, fpreads

meKiathii;

it

Fruitfulnefs

Tt'mM..

fetacUas,
f

/.

Futiereal

Tlie
holiday; ceflation from

a(i of keeping

work.
As though there were any firl^rifn in nature, ibis
feafon is commonly leiineii the phyiiciaiis vacation.

K

jium-rous.

The country people cftccm

To carry over in a boat.
carried ?]
Cymocles heard and faw.

ous, and untameable heafts J

of

'l-<'f-

bears.

a. /. [from firhic.\
baritv ; favagenefs ; wildnefs.

Feri'nehess.

JB»r-

habit of life,
barbarilm inifiriiiene/s.

ll-tlr.

{feiilas,

iMm.]

Parba-

rity ; cruelty ; "wildaefe ; favageaefs.
He reduced him from (he moft abjcd and llupid
fciitj to his fcnfts, and lo 'obcr reafoii.

[fermeulo, Latin;

a.

i'.

To exalt or rurify by in-

firmetiter, Fr.]

FeiRu'ciqUs, ffdj.
French.]
fiieree.
. lavage ;

while youlli ferments your

!

[blood.

Now range the hills, the tliickert woods bofet,
Pope.

n.

To have the parts

put into inteftine motion.

Ft'RMENT.

«.

/.

mentum, Latin.]

[firmeat, French ; /f/--

ami all anmal humours which poifon, are
•

Plnyer.

tumult.

Inteftine motion ;
Regrrt.
Subdue and cool the/ rinent of dcfire.
[from ferment.^
FeRMu'ntabi.k. adj.
2.

2.

Ravenous

;

power to

air, is fruitful

Unio ilie Trajeft, to the common ^rrry
Sbake/j/xare,
Which trades to Veniee.
Af'rryUai to curry over the king's houfehold.

young ones but feldoniy and but one at a time.
;/.
/ [ferocitai, hutin frroFrench, from ferociom.^
Savagenefs; wildnefs; fiercenefs.
An uncommon _/<T&c//y in my c.iunlcnance, with

FrRMENTA'i lON.f/./. [firmentatio, Latin j

A flow motion of the inteftine particles
of a mixt body, arifing ufually Iroin the
opewtion of fome aftive acid matter,
which rarifies, exalts, and fiihrilizes the
as when
foft and fiilphureous particles
leaven or yelt rarifies, lightens, and ferAnd this motion
ments bread or wort.
from that uftially_ called
differs mtich
ebullition or effervefcence, which is a violent boiling and ftruggling between an
acid and an alkali, when mixed together.

the remarkable llaM.cfi of my nofr, and eitciu
my mouth, have procured me the name of lion.
as they

Hiirrii.
ti(,yle,

A man, by tumbling his thoughts, and forming
Ihca into eif refiions, gives them » ocw kind oiyirr-

1

oi fer!,ciiy.

full

CuarJian,

pafTts.

;

tranfporto goods and pafTengers over the

water.
1

ferrrom or magne-

ltroicn*s I-^u.'gur Krr(.ias.

tical nature.

The camman ferryman oi Egypt, that wafted over
Memphis, was made by the
ferryman of hell, and foKmn ftories
Brown,
railed after him.
Greeks

yEiicaseulrance,

Ferth or Forth,

.Siaie/fienn'i fuUus Cerfir.

McrliiKer.
%. A kind of narrow woollen tape.
To Ff.'rrkt. i;. a. [from the noun.] To
drive out of lurking places, as the ferret
drives the coney.

The archbilliop h»i frietteJ him out of .ill

his

Fi'rr et: R. «. /. [from^rn"/.]

One that

hunts another in his privacies.
Fe'rriage. tt. f. [fiomyiry-.]

The

paid at a ferry.
1

fare

[fertile,

French ; fertilis,

Latin.]
Fruitful; abundant; plenteous.

1.

had hope of France,

As firmly as I hope (or fertile England.
I

have' had a

k fertile, that

it

has given

1

.'iktk.

and a pleafant

large, a fair,

alk whether in the uncultivated Avafte of
as

a

Dry Jen.

rica, a ihoufand acres yield

of life

field ;

me two hatvells in

Summer.

ten acres of

as

Ame-

many conveniencies

Cvjually feitile

land do in
'

Ltjcke.
Dcvonlhite >
View the wide earth adotn'd with hilK and woods,
Rich in her herds, 3ni fertile by her Hoods
Bluckmcre,

//cv/i>.

holds.

he knew his guide. R'fom.

Common terminations
Gihfon.

FE'RTILE. adj.

I

Coneys are takeneiihcr byjeritti or puife-nets.

'till

are the fame as in Engliib an army
coming from the Saxon word p.v)i^.

1

wc have (cen lilm.

\\\z

The grilly/ci/7<»an of hell deny'd

Cicero

Looks with fuch /f rr/ .ind fuch fiery eyes

mcthought, the melancholy flood.

the dead bodies from

With what an eager eamcdncfs (lie looked, having
thrcatning not only in her ff ret eyes, but while flic
fp.ike, hemofe leeintd to threaten her chin.
Hitimy,

paft,

With that p\mferryn:ati which poets write of.
Unto the kingdom of perpetual night. Sbakejpeare.

Africa.

.'Vs

the ferry boat

Fl'rryman. w. /. [y^rry and «r^//.] One
who keeps a ferry one who for hire

Phillps's Briton.

gf iron.
i« no

AMiifin.

The pafTage over which

Fe'rheous. oay. \Jcnem, Latin.] Irony;
In the body ef glafs there

went down to the river Brent in the ordinary

ferry.

2.

ol

were

:

The juice of grapes, after/«)iK»(a/((;», will j^cld

2^'j. xix. |8.

;

cite,

Inhofpitable,

.

Paiiy S^ueen,

Her/i7ij brought.
Bring them with imagin'd fpeed

even unto lii-

FeRo'citY.

:

Him needed not long call, Qie foon to hand

but the lion and yj-'oe/'^j- animal hath

the veins with

crude and windy ferofidcs, that contain little fall
orfpirii, and debilitate the vital acidity and//lir„uii.
mentat faculty of the fton»ach.

i^fpiritui ardeus,

Where fne was rowing, and for palTa^c fought

rapacious.

They ;ire
fnout, ufed to catch rabbits.
Aiid to have been brought hither from

fill

By this time was the worthy Guyon brought
Unto the other fide of that wide liranJ,

P^fe,

caufe fermentation.

Hav-

Not ufed.
Cucumben, b;ing wateriftiy

;

The inu-e, that becometh a prey unto man, unto
per/"etation i

MT/rtrt.

goods or pafTengers are carried o\'er water.

FL'RRE'I'. n. /. [fared, Wellh ; ftint,
French ; f-rret, Dutch ; t'ivcirtt, Latin.]
I. A kind of rat with red eyes and a loiig

Capable of fermentation.
\ixQi\x\ fermetit.']

Botli to and fro, their foiTow to augment.

Fe'rry.
7 »• /• [from the verb, and
Fe'rryboat. J ioa/.]
A veffel of carriage a vefTel in which
1

ylj.iijtjn^i

^\iVzi\.i\^ferments.

ing the

Latin; feroct,

.Smediey rofe in wiajefty of mud
Shaking the horrors of his ample brows,
Acd eachyivvr/V** feature grisn with ooze.

Untaught, uncultivated,

.The fem' n puts females into a fever upon inipreg-

Ferme'ntal.

\^finx,

.

That which caufts inteftine motion.

ndj.

Thcsfeny over this Lethean found

Dryd

Br6'w/t's f^t/Jg.ir Errct/rs.

Wind the Ihrill horn, orfprcad the wating net.

TbFerme'nt. w.

a veffcl or carriage.
Thence hurried back to fire,

1

beads and fowls of the

telUne motion of parts.

Yc vig'rous fwains
And purer fpiriti Iwell the fprighily flood,

And him lo ferry over that deep ford, f'atry S^yeex,
To Fk'rry. -v. h. To pafs over water in

TJie herd fuffic'd, did late repair

To ferf.y heaths, and to their t'ofelUlare.

//'i.oJwun^'s N'Muial WJitiry

To FERME'.NT.

M'tlirr.

ferfl.

that were falkn into a barbarous

«. /.

hut jthey are feldoio cultiured in

wqiildj

Ft 'RNy..fl<^'. |[|tt>ai _/<«/.] 0\ej-*ro\vn with

would aliimiUie the Ile^t gcneraliou to

Fe'rity.

tlie

p.'^rdcns.

A ferine and neceffitqus kind of life, a converfatlon with thofe

He loudly call'd to fuch as were aboard.
The little bark unto the (hore to draw.

D}ydcti.

There are great varieties ai fern jn.diffetent parts

as, lion?, tygcts, wolves,

l>e

more naturally derived fromyJm., to be

Few pa llispliliumaii feet or tracks of bealb were worn.

The only difficulty is touehtng tlityfe/rw, noxi-

t>ation;

;

mutt be fought, may not thcfe word.s

and inlncale with-thorn ;

J.loriiJ.wi(liy"<-r;r,

favage.

1.

a fovc-

remedy d<.c«^l«:d for the tickets in children.
urn.
Black was the fored, thick with beech it (load,

Wild;

Latin.]

{firimts,

aJj.

it

Rtiy,

hoops otfrrules.

To FE'RR V. 'V. a. [pajran, to pafs, Saxon ;
fahr, German, a iraffage. Skinner imagines that this whole family of words
may be deduced from the Latin -jtho. I
do not love Ijitin origi.nals but if fuch

rci^ii

Hro ivn.

FE'RINE,

jirbuthnot.
It.

plant.
f. [peapn, Sajton.]
The leaves jirc formed of a number of fmall pinnulc'-, dentatvd on the cdge.s and let clafc one by
another on tk»der ribs.
On the bick of thtfe
pinnulcjari produced ilie fceds, fmall and extremely

Fkria'tion. ir./.{feri/fth,lM\n,]

iK ftrengthened with nails, ai

we fortify the ends of our tUves or forks with iron

iht'ir fermentative

heat.

FERN.

diurelick, _/<T.

and bituminous. Ruy.
[from ferrum, iron,

1 he fingers ends

Aromatical Tpirits dcllroy by

^'^?-

deadly.

;

purgative,

hot,

pctrcfyiiig,

rE'R,«,ULE. K. y.
Latin.]
An iron ting put round any
thing to keep it from cracking.

to caufe fermentation.

iiia.

Latin.]

[ffom firmtftit.]
having the power

adj.

iCaufmg fermentation

l^atiii.]

fertility.

;

[_/ff«/;/.

aJj.

They arc cold,

^ihotnfon,

FERMj'KTATtVE-

Coy/il.

donor in fee-tail.
Fera'city, ».

particles and qualities of iron.
ifugiMovjf faliiK,

All this iniiumcrous coloured I'cene of things.

Partaking of the

Latin.]

ferriigwetis,

T!ie fap, in fluent dance.

2.

With o^before the thirvg produced.
The earth \i fertile of

M kind of graio. Can:Jen.
This

«

FE'RTILFNESt. »./ [':om fertile.]

Fruit-

fulnefs ; fecundity.

T» Ferti'litate.

To fecundate

[from ^r/iit.]

a.

to fertilize; to make fruit-

;

well, and be the friend of Chrift; nor ahcre nor
when he fullers, fo he may do it frequently, ftr-

ventlyi and acceptably.

FfRVID. eJj.
1.

'V.

Not in ufe.
ful or produdive.
A cock will in one iiyfersUilaie the whole racemation or cluiiet of eggs not excluded in aianv
Bro-ui
weelcs after.
Ferti'lity. n.f.

\feriililas, Latin.] Fecundity ; abundance ; fruitfulnefs ; plen-

1.
2.

and thofe mighty cropt they prodOce after
Waodtvard.
7i Fektili'ze. v. a, [/fr/;7;z^r, French.]

To make fruitful

;

to

make plenteous ;

to make produfHve ; to fecundate.
Rain-water carries along with it a fort of

ter-

reftrial matter that/rrt;V/=<-j the land, as being pro-

per for the formation of vegeubles.

Fi'rtily. ad-v. [irom fertile.

H'mdvtrJ.,
Fruitfully;

plenteoufly; plentifully; abundantly.

FE'RVENCY. «./. [fir-vens, Latin.
neat of mind;

1.

artlour;

Hooker.
it be with attaotian, with
IVake.

[fer^enr, Latin

-,

ferven/,

?t.

f. [fervor,

Bolbling wave did e»e- frelhly wade
Hfetifer.

blood, will flow a future 5 jietude and
nctt„r..

vehement.

;

They that are monfervenr to difputt, be not alway.i the moft able to determine.
H<Mker.

Ardent in piety ; warm in xeal ; flaming
with devotion.
This min f-cing fmvert; in the fp irir, fau|hl dili-

3.

feofly the thii-^- of the l.ord.
*^.;

^

Al:lt, xviii. 15.

(fA<- [hr/.rmti angel; but hisieal
atoul of leal'on iudg'd.
ilralh.
•

into

'
'

'

.''-•

,

lltiil

Miit<,n-$raradl/eVtfi.
the myfterious points of

withy<Tir«/ petitions to God,
their minds to direfl all their

had removed fuch ihmgs.
Haply defpaif hath feii'd h^rj

to (ne proiTiotion of a good life.

Scuib.

Ft'RVENTLY. ad-u. [from/crT«,/.]
Eagerly; vehemently.
The; all that cliarge A\A fervently apply

1.

V/iih grtfrly m.4lice and importun*

2.

toil.

There will be a^oretto,

in

a

U.eefe,

Dutch;

frfti.

Holder.

Teach them how sninly poflioni ought t j move
For fuch as cannot think, can never love;
And lince they needs will judge the poet's art,
Foint 'em -Kx-Mf/curt to cjck Ihififng part.
DryJ.

A kind of bafe grain.

iluteth you, labouring /rri/M//,

for you

-'

Th' invited lifters with their graces blelt
Thar/Jiivah.

fx** Of

'J'st

b*

faflirs, fo hc'ruflfcr

Saiidyt,

morning trumpetsy^^/Vd/ proclaim'd
Through each highftrett.
Mi^ton'e A^ini/lei,
Follow, ye nymphs and fhejihcrds all.
Tlic'

Come celebrate this/Jiirral,
And merrily (ing, and fpart, and play;
'Tis Oriana's nuptial day.

;.

Oranvi/ie,

By facritice of the tongU"S they purged away whatever tjicy had fpoken amifs during \hcf/lii.al.

Brocme on the OJyjfy,
"Hie fe/iival of our Lord's refurrcilion wc have
celebrated, and may now conlidcr the chief co.ife^
ijucnce of his refurrection a judgment to coi^.
Atterbur'fi Sermons.

Fe'stxve. odf {^ffivm, Latin.] Joyom
gay ; befitting a feart.
The glad circle round them yield tlieir fouls
"Va/'Jlitie mirth and wit that knows no gall,

Festivity, w./.

[fjli-vita,,

t

thorn.

Latin; from

fjn^e.]
heftival; time of rejoicing.
as a deity, and had an annual ftjlivity obl'crvcd unto

there be above out, yon
there be idd

her honi.ur.
Broiun.
There happening a great and folemn /rjli-uiiy,
fuch as ihe llieep-ftiearing« ufed to he, David condcfcends to beg of a rich man fome ftaall repaid.

if with the field

or ten, ai the kir.g of Hungary bears argent
and
gules, bairy of tight.
fej.bjmmt B/,iz',mng.

ToFt'sTER.

<!/.
n. \f,ffe, in Bavarian, a
fvvelling corrupted, fHniut. ]
rankle
to corrupt ; to grow virulcHt,

To

,-

Alterbury^

The dangliter of Jc;)htlia came fo be worfhippej

Mmi

poirclTing the third pan of ThccLut.
if

Per-

So tedious is this day.

1.

Thryj^ ii fo called of the l.itin ward fjjda, a

cliron over the middle :

.

f [feftimtio, Latin.]

As is the night before hmtfe/lival.
To an impatient child tiiat hath new robes.
And may not wear them. Shakeff. Rom. and Jul,

Fr.J

the points of his hiigcrs of his left hand both on
the iiilide to liznifyfomc letter, wh.:n any of litem is
pointed at by the Icie fti.ijer of the right tuud, or by

Or care to make Kgypiian IcntiU thrive.
F18SE. «./. [In heraldry.]

n.

to men.

to read point out the letters.
Teach him an alphabet upon his fingers, ntakiog

any kindof_/f/<ri(/.

'

Fe'stival. ». / Time of feaft; anniver*
fary-day of civil or religious joy.

A fmall wire oy which thofe who tcuch

eitlit,

;

Not in

taining to feafts ; joyous.

few ages more,

then yiu mult name ih:
Scld, and faj fi. many bars; if even, as fix, eiqli',
or tin, you mjs fiy barwilc, or harry of fix,

faWy O.

fiftinate.]

Hade; hurry.
FE'STIVAL. adj. {fcfli-vus, Latin.]

Huikef.

pieces, as fcven or nine,

With pious ardour; with holy zeal.

V ut. i.

Festina'tion.

Ardour of piety.

muft call them bars ;

[from

Take this key; give enlargement to the fwain,
and bring himyftf/;w/f/)/ hither.
Sbake/feare.

Or, wing'd wiih/«n/o«<roi her love, ihe's flown
Toherdefir'd Polihumus.
Sb,tke/piate' t Cym!>,

band or girdle,

adtf.

ufiN

partial mn\ appe.ir fufiicient to clear them from all
blame of ralh proceedings, if iny^ri'wofical they

Difd lin not/fch or poor veth lu fow,

.

'

Fi'sTlNATEt.Y.

Pope.

Odious it muil needs have been to aboIiOi thit
which all had held lor the fpice of many ages,
without rcafon fo great as might in the eye^of im-

n.f

A

word not in ufe.
Advife the duke, where you are going, to a mod
fejiinaie preparation : we are bound to the like.
Sliakefp. KtKg hear,

He appeared at great tables, and fjlival entertainments, that he might manileft his divine charity

Ani b ailing lighmingi burllaway.
Heat of mind ; zeal.

Fe'iels,

Latin.]

[fiftinatus,

Haftily ; fpeedily j with fpeed.

Were it an undeniable truth that an efie^lual
fert/Qur proceeded from this Itar, yet would not the
fame determine tlic opinion,
Brruin.
Like bri^Iit .Aurora, wliofe refulgent ray
Foretells \X\e./trVfiur of enfuing day.
And warns the Ihepherd with his flacks retreat
To leafy fiiadows, from the threaten 'd heat. IS'ailer.

3,

South.

„dj.

Hafty; hurried.

Heat; warmth.

2,

ff'ofait.

Ufijier.

FE'.STINATE.

French.]

Ft'scuF. n.f.

From the plilegmatick humour, the proper allay

Hot in temper

Latin; ferveur,

produce this efteft.

Paliion and unbindncfs may give a wound that
fhall bleed and fmart ; but it is treachery tliat makes

AiiJ'Jon btt Italy.

Ne ever would ihrough/rrv.-»/ Sjmmcr fade.

2.

ftion

To chaftile with the

The fountains

ferc.iiti-de.

of favour, and Fehon, there had been ancient quarrels not yet well healed, which might perhaps
b«
filling in his breait, and by a certain inflamma.

Jewell of the greateft value in Europe, if the devotion of its princes continues ia iu fn:(a>t /er-vtur,

boiling.

e,f finrrti

bodies

Muft lie mi/^er.
Shakrfpeare's Henry V,
I'heic was imagination, that between a knight
whom the duke had taken into fome good degrc*

Foretell the />ri««r ot the day ;

French,
;

From off tlufe fields, where, wretches, their pool'

ferula.

FjRVOur.

SbaU/f, Coriot.

Mind that their fouls

May make a peaceful and a fwect retire

So from one cloud lott Uiow'is we vieW|

ftrveney and with perfeverance.

Hot

And teat themfelvcs » ith d:atl).

Dift.

Sia%u's Gramm.

cagernefs.

2. Pious ardour; flame of devotion; zeal.
We have on all fides lolt moft of our brU /enemy
towards God.
Uaoter, DtJUjtkn.
There muft be leal zni ferveney in him which
.propofeth for the reft thofe fults and fupplications,
which ihey by their joyful acclamations muft ratify.

r.

ardour.

;

Thefe lUvcr drops, like morning dew.

Did hang a filh on his hook, which he
Wuhferveticy drew up.
Sbaltt/feare.

Ff'RVBNT. adj.

pafTion

To Ferule, -v. a.

Your diver

When yo« pray, let

—Well might ihz-j/efier 'gainft ingratitude.

Heat.
Zeal ;

Thefe diticr as much, as the rod mtdfini/^t.

1,

^

.'

[feruU. French; from
giant fennel, Latin.]
An inUrument of correftion with which young
fiholarsare beaten in the hand : fo named
becaufe anciently the llalks of fennel were
ufed for this purpofe.

lillly,

I'ltiry

How Ihould aw/f/iereti lores be cured
Honker,
I havefomc wounds upon me, and tlicy fitiart.
To hear themfel\ifs remember'd.

ferula,

The quicknefs of the imagination is fecn in ihs
invention, ^t fertility in the&ncy, and the acci;rac)

thefe watcn are withdrawn.

Aild/rfieritrg fore did rankle yet within.

FE'KULA. n.f

RuUigb't UiJIory.

in the cxpieiTion.
Dry Jen.
To inundations Egypt, through which the Nile
flows, and the Indies owe their extraordinary _/!>-

[fer-viJm. Latin.]

Hot; burning; boiling,

As to the healing of M.iLhus's ear. in the account of the meek Lamb of God, itw.ts a kind oi
injury done to him by xhe feriistne/i of Si. I'etcr,
who knew not yJt whatfpitu he was of.
Benthy.

Faradife itfclf exceeded ia beauty aad yn-;;ViV)>

Siiiaey.

Inward corruption and infected fin,
Notpiirg'd, notheal'd, behind remained ftill,

Fe'rvidness. »./. [ixom ferviJ.] Ardour
of mind; zeal; paliion.

and thefe places had but a icfemblancc thereof.

CWB in my lady's prefentr, difcoverthe

fere whic.': hid JeeplyJ*V^erf</ within me.

luyUr.

Vehement; eager; zealous.
FERVi'piTv. 71./. [from fei-jiJ.

will go root away

The noilbme weeds, that without profit fvck
The (oWifertilhy from wholefome flowers.
Sbakfp. Rhb.U.

I might,

z.

teoufnefs.
1

FES

FE 5

F E R
This Klppy country is extrexaely Jerll/e,
tf
riiofc above, To lilccwifc of iu produdiions under
^ocU-wan/.
grrtiind.

;

South,

2. Gaiety ; joyfulncfs ;

temper pr behaviour

befitting a fcall.
To fome perfons there is no better inftrument to
caufe the remembrance, and to endear the affection to the article, than the rccoiiunending it by
/.Jlimty and joy of a holy-day.
Taylor.

FESTd'oN. n.f. \fi/lm, French.]
An ornament of carved work in the form of a
5

IJ

wreath

FET

F E T
wreath or garland of flowers, or leaves
twifted together, thickeft at the middle,
and fu fpended by the two extremes, u hence
It hangs

down perpendicularly.

Harris.

Note a wild and wanton herd,

Sbaltefpeare.

The iax fetched a hundred and a hundread leaps at
a delicious clutter of grapes.
h' EJlrange^
Talk to her ai an unfortunate young laJy that loft
her beauty by the fmall-pox, (tie fetches a deep figh.
Addifon.

colour between green and yellow.
Theftio m»y be difcovercd a little infefl of a
Jrjiucine or pile greeo, refembling a locuft or grafshopp«r.
Bnix-H.

of ftraw.

Wc fpeak of Draws, otfeftucMs i'Miont, lightly
drawn over with oil.

Te Fet. J/, a.

Bniun'i Vulgar Encurs.

To fetch; to go and bring.

Not in ufe.

9.

To reach; to arrive at

to come to.
Mean time ftcw our Ihips, and Anight v/eftlcht
The fyrens iile ; a fpleenlefs wind ib Itretcht
Her wmgs to waft us, and fo utg'd our keel. Chafm.
;

If earth, induttrious of herlelf.yrtfi day
Travelling Halt; and with her part averfe

From the fun's beam, meet night

Get home with thy fewel, make ready tojei.
The fooner the eafier carriage to get. g
'Tujfcf.
But for he was unable them to/t/,

A little boy did oa him dill attend.

her other part
Still luminous by his ray.
AIiltoH*s Faradife Lcji.
The h.ire laid himfelf down, and took a nap; for,
fays he, I i^a fetch up the tortoife when 1 pleafe.

.

Now taid with many ifct
Of feed-pearl, ere (he bath'd her there
Was known as black as jet.

L'Eftratige.

10.

To obtain as its price.

During fuch a ftate, filver in the coin will never
fetch as much as the lilver in bullion.
Lacke.

7b Fetch, v. n.

To move with a quick

return.
Like a fhifled wind unto a fail,

Dray.'oft.

Shakefpeare,

To FETCH, "v.a. \>Ktct. fetched ; anciently
fet, unlefs it rather came from To fet,

Fetch, n.f. [from the verb.] A Itratagem by which any thing indiretlly per-

They have devis'd a mean
And with a corded \3.iicx fetch her down.

Shakefp.

yJg^T.

Co to the flock, mi fetch me from thence two kid
Gemjis,

{oats.

The feat of empire where the Irifh come,
And the unji'illii>gScat>;h, to fetch their doom.
lialUr.
Draw forth the monflers of th' ahyfs profound,
Os fetch th' aerial eagle to the ground.
Vcfc.

To derive

to draw.
;
On, you noblell Englilh,
Shak/ffeare,

The conditimiS of weapons, and their

improvements, ate \hxfetckijig afar off; for that outruns the
danger, as it is ictn in ordnance and mulkets. Haan.

To bring to any ftate by fome powerful

4.

operation.
In fmells we fee then' great and fudden efFefl in
fttebiug men again, when they fwoon.
Bjc^n.
-At Rome any of thofe ails immediately thrives,
under the encouragement of the prince, and may be
feicbtH up to its perfeflion m ten or a doxcn years,
V«hich is the work of an age or two in ot.her coun'

Addfort tn Italy.

tries.

5.

To draw within any confinement or pro-

Stright caft about to over- reach

plaid me.

CKrneral terms may fufficiently convey to 'he
people what our intentions are, and jet r.otyr/c A us
within the compafsof the ordinance.
Sjrtdtrfon,

To produce by fome kind offeree.
Thefe ways, if there were any fecret excellence
among them, would fetch it out, and give it fair
opportunities toadvance itfelf by.

Mili(,n.

An human foul without cdiicalion is like marble
in the quarry, v/hich Ihews none of its beauties 'till
«ht (kill of the polilherye/f/j; J out the colours.

To perform

LTJlrange.

From thefe inlfances ^ni fetches
Thou mak'll of horfcs, clocks, and watches
Quoth Mat, thou feem'ft to mean
That Alma is a mere machine.
Frier,

:

It is applied to

motion or

caufe.

One that

Latin; fe/id, Fr.]
having a fmeil ftrong

[fetidits,

Stinking; rancid;
and offeniive.

Moll putrefjflions are of an odious fmell ; for they
fmcll either fetid or mouldy.
Bacin.
In the mol^ Icvere orders of the church of Rome,
thofe who pradile abitiuence, feel after n fetid hot

AibuthiM.

Pla?ue, f.crceft child of Nemefis divine,
Defcends trom Hihiopia's poifon'd woodr,
From Ibfled Cairo's liith and fetid helds. Thomfon.

Ft'TiDNESs.a./. [fromy«'/;d'.] The quality
of ftinking.
Fe'tlock, n.f. [feet and loci.] A tuft
of hair that grows behind the pallern joint
of many horfcs ; horfes of a low fize iiave
fcarce any fuch tuft.
Farrier's DUi.
Their wounded ftceds

A.idfiti'i Spef}alcr.

7.

Still.

eruttations.

hibition.

b.

as full of trioks

As rota men of politicks,

FE'TID. adj.

finfeiltck deep in gore, and with wild rage
Verk out their armed heels ut iheir dead mailers.
i'A.ikefi>.

V\\ fetch a turn about the garden, pitying

The pangsof barr'd afteitiuii;; though t!ie kin*
Uaih eharg'd you Ihould not fj-eak toeether.

When evening grey dotlir.le,

Sbjk.
\ fetch my round

Over the niojnr.

'

hlilt^n.

To co;iie 10 that pbcr they mull /.•/.* a lompals
(htec muc-. aaU\ei.|^tithauii ihro.

l>

< loiei)-.

K'iiUiU Hijhrj.

Fii'iuK,

n. f.

\fczlor,

Littin.]

Prior.
Pleafure arofe in thofe very parts of his leg
that

juft betore had been Ib much pained by the

ftter.

AdJi/in.
.
thought her pride
Had broke your fetters, and afTur'd your freedom.
.

.

I

To it'TTER. v. a. [from the noun.]
bind ;

to enchain ;

to (hackle ;

'I'o

to tie.

It is properly ufed of the feet, but is applied to other reftraints.
Neither her great worthinefs nor his own fufferSidney.
•My confciijicc! thou tsn fetter'
More than my Ihanks and wtilb.
Shakefp. Cymi.
Fetter ftrong inadnefs in a iilken thread

Charm ach with air, and agony »ith words.

Skje,

Bramhall.

i-.n.

[A

cant

Friar.

word from

To do trifling bufinefs

Diyderi.

A ft'ink

in and preiend 10 _/>///> about the room ;
chider, lay you thought he rung the bell.

;

to ply

;

a ftench ; a ftrong and offonfive fmell.
1 he flit may dilcove i itfelf by fweal and humoLii.
Brown.

When the f;mn'o;i)i are attendcii(iitha/«»r 01

and

if

he

Szfift.

Fl'tus. »./ \faeitis, Latin.]
Anyanir.wr
in emhrio ; any thing yet in the womb,;
any thing unbt>rn.
Tlul paradox of Hippocrates fome learned phyjcians have of late revived, that the fetus refpires in
the womb.
Buyle.

Feud.

«. /.
fpeahb, enmity, Saxon.]
Quarrel ; contention ; c^ipofi'tion ; war.
J hough men would find fuch tsiosti\ feuds

In Iharing of their public goods.
Hudihras.
In former ages it was a policy of France to raife.
and cherilh intelline feuds and difcords in Great
Britain.

Addifut.

_

Scythia moutns

Our guilty wars, and earth's remotcft regions
Lie half unjieoplcd by tlie feuds of R*nu.
Add!/..
FEU'DAL. <7a>-. [fttdalis, lew Latin.] Pertaining to fees, feus, or tenures, by whicJi
lands are held of a fupcriour lord.
Fr.u'oAL. n.f. A dependance ; foracthing
held by tenure ; a fee ; a feu.
Wales, that was not .ilwayj theyf».y,i/ territory of
England, having been governed by a prince- of their
own, h.id lawi utterly llraiigc to the laws of England.

lUe.
[ixom feudal.] One
who holds not in chief, but by fome
conditional tenure from a fuperiour.
The duke of Parma was tempted to be true to

tEUD.^TORV,

n. f.

that enterprizc, by no lefs promilc than to be made
a fud.mry. or beneficiary king of Englatid, under
tlie

Itenry V.

While were the fetlocks of his lect beiore,

And m his front a (howy (lar he bore.

And nature flies him like enchanted ground. DrjJ.
The wretch in double fetter, bound,

When your m.ifter is moll bufy in company, come

Sbjk. Uamlit.

n.f. [{ram fetch.]
fetches any thing.

Raleigh.

PalTions too fierce to be in fetters bound,

the hands without labour.

As 'twere a thing a little foil'd i' th' working.

Fe'tcher.

fiiled-

feel.]

You laying thefe Uight fullies on-my fon,

Tlie fox had a fetch in't.

Drawing after me the chains and Jitters where
unto I have been tied, I have by other men's errours

ToY\! xt\.r.

z.

To ftrike at a diftance.

3.

Doflrine unto fools is as fetters on the feet ; snd
like manacles on the right hand.
Ecelef. xxi. iq.

A chiin which man to fetter man has made

Th' unwary conqu'rar with fetch.
HuJiiras.
With tliisyiYfi he laughs at the trick he lutli

Whofe blood \%fi!cb'd from fathers olwar-prnof.

Chains for the feet ; chains by

which walking is hindered.

By ariiticc inipoi'd, by fear obey'd.

His cumberfomey^/i-Afj are feldom behind :
His^e/ro is to liatter, to get whit he can j
His purpofe once gotten, a pin lor thee then. Hujfer.
It if ifrtch of wit

But Sidrophel,

Saxon.]

commonly ufed in

[irom feet ; peeeep*,

fttieied, lb as he cannot more ?

An envious neighbour h cafy to find.

We will take men tofetcb viiSuals for the people.

It is

Doth a marter chide his fervant becaufc he doth
not come, yet knows that the fctvant is chained
and

artifice.

How he her chamber-window will afccnd,

2.

\s.

formed ; by which one thing fceins intended and another is done ; a trick ; an

To go and bring.

1.

». /.

the plural y^z/rrr.

i»g tor her, za\s\i fetter his ticklenefs.

It makes the courfe of thoughts xd fetch about.

[peccan, pertan, Saxon.]

FE'Tl ER.

Vour potent mercy may rcleafe.

;

Fairy Qurtrt.

And they fet forth Urijah out of Egypt to Jclioia^r. xxvi. 2j.
Fet. n.f. [I fuppofe from _/a;V, French, a
part or portion, j
Apiece. Not in ufe.
The bottom clear
Vim, who flew him with the fwotd.

any kind, fuch « difeafe will be curei fcjr icefceat
fubflances, and none better than whey. Artuthmt.

Or race ofyoulhful and unhandlcd colts.
Fetching mad bounds, bellowing and neighing loud.

i\'srv cin K. aJJ. [fe/iuca, lAiin.] Straw-

Festo cous. adj. [fijiuca, Latin.] Formed

F E V

To perform with fuddenefs or violence.

8.

fcigniory in chict of the pope,

of Spain.

and the proieftioii
liacM.

FE'VER. n.f. \fe^re,Ytcnd\;fihris, Lat.]

A difeafe in which the body

is violcnily
heated, and the pulfe quickened, or ia
which heat and cold prevail by turns. It

is

fometimes continual, fomctimes inter-

mittent.
Tbinl'ft tljou the &») fever will tp out

With

FEW

FIB

With titles blown from adulation f
Will it give place to flexure and low benJine ?
Skakeff. Heary V.

Duncan is ir his gra^e;

Than foul difcafcs tha"t infeiS the fqld.

Ai'ter life's fitful /Hrr he ileeps well.

as the objefls they converfc with
Licie.
Thryi'uri- rtill you name, y<^ wound the more
;
Bond is but one, but I larpax is a fcore.
Pape.
Party it the madnefs of many, for the gain of a

DiyJrn.

atford greater or lefs varifly.

He had never dreamed in his life, 'till he had the
frver he was then newiy recovered of.
Lccle,
7o FeVer. -v. a. [from the noun.]

To

put in a fever.
The white hand of a Xiiyfe^vr thee

/"":

S-u.-:ft.

.

in any age have come up to that charafter.

BerUff to Pope.

A flight

Sometimes elliptically not many words.
To aniwer faorh alleeaiions at once, the very fub-

2.

fever; febricula.

A light_/Ho-«, or an old quartan ague, U not a
fufHcicnt excufe for non appearance.

.

.

llajicc ot that they

Say,

Thus Jopiter in_/^tunfoId'4thecharge.

Hot; burning.

the peril thereof be greater in men, whole minds .irr
as dry yrur/, apt beforehand unto tumults, fediiions,

and broils ?

fhiter, DtJieation.

But they the breath,

tfiat

makes the flame,

A

/e-.er.]

a.

[from the noun. J

Never, alas the dreadful name,
Tliaty>itiA the infernal flame.

Having a tcndencj- to produce fevers.

or row of leaves.
Of Homer's head f inclafc the outline, that you
iot JeuiUage

fo lirg-,

lajrel

oj

Jervm 10 Pope

perhaps

[peo,

adj.

reiSDa.
peopa,

Saxon;
.«?:

fi,a.

Dani(h.J
I,

Not manv not in a great number.
We are left bur_^t' of many.
;

'V,

So much the ih'rlt of hono^jr lirrs thr blood
'
So ou.iy would be great, io/iw br good
•

j

To

A teller ot fibs,

Fl'BRE «./. [fibre, Kr. fib,a, Latin.]
1.

A fmall thread or llring;;

the

lirft

con-

ftitucnt parts of bodies.

Xow Hiding ilrfiimi 'he ihiiiVy plants renew,
Ai.dlced ih.ir7i'i,o»iih levivingd-w.
Ptpt.
2.

Shak.

Shak.
Mitt.

They know how fiii/e common lovcrj are
Their oaths and vows howcautioufly bcliev'd •

Wiio change the conlfant lover for the new.
2. Not fixed; fubjeft to viciffitude.

A fibre in phylick, is an animal thread,
ef which feme are foft, flexible, and a
little einftick
and thcfc are citlicr hollow, like fmall pipes, or fpongious and
full of litfle cells, as the nervous and
;

Priir,

He would be loth
Us to abjiifh left the advcifarv
Triumph, aij fay, ficUe tlieir'ftate, whom CoJ
Moll favours
Milton' , Par, Loft.
;

Fi'cxleness.

'

monly XO philemct.

A dogkceper

Pofi.

;

Fi'bber. n.J. [from/^]

n. f. [French.]
'ifie
colour of a faded leaf, corrupted com-

the cleaner of the kennel.

In France araongft iJicItU wavering nation.
flavc, whofe ealy borrow'd pride
Dwells in the/c*/c grace of her he follows
Orlikcll hovering dre.ims,
Tiit fickle penfioners of Mor(hcus' train.

Dryden,

[from the noun.]
lie;
to fpcak fatfely.
It you have any mark, whereby
one m.iy kn>w
when loMjib, and when you fpcak iruih, )du had
befttell jtmc.
.Irhuih

A bunch

Changeable; inconftant; irrefolute; wavering; nnftcady; mutable; changeful;

We in vain thefick/e fex purfue,

P^p

io often lie.

n.

1'.

to tell Ives

ken J'.nf. Ctlil

on the outfide of the
which is not fo

far lew there are but have been once deceiv'd.

DelUoy his jSli or fophilfry in vain,
Tiic cteaturc's at his dirty wurk ^ain.

7i FiB,

\t drown'd in fleep, and all tiiy baiv_/fii'(y.

FEW.

[A cant word among children.]

1

lies

it

A

Scarce Ilars-ey'sfelf has told morcfii than I.

O RoTiie, thy lieaJ

the tibia :

without fteady adherence.
Remember where we arc.

."itair/p.

A lie; a falfehood.

a fever.

I,

Dry J.

To cleanfe

[Latin.]
The outer and
the leg, much fmaller than

n. f.

Fl'CKLE. adj. [pcol, Saxon.]

Paucity of words; brevity ; concifenefs

FIB. n. f.

Fe'viry. iadj. [from^irr.j Difcaxcd with

Fe'utkre*. h. f.

could not

Such muddy deep ditches and pits in the field,
That all a dry Summer no water will yield,
By/eying and calling that mud upon heaps,
Commudities many ihc hulbandman reaps, luffo-.

Milian.

been noted by ilic ancients, that fouthem
wiiidi,
blouiijg much, uiihoul rain, do caule a
yrtirroar dilpolitionof tneyeari but wjth rain not.
Bucim'i S'i'lirjl HiJI

I

cr.ibodied.

Troubled with a fever or ague.
/Wtrr/i and truth, 'tis thus,
Thou mid'ft ihiae enemifs fliake, as if the world Ta Fey.
i: a. [ir^ie/t, Dutch.]
We»e/ric/-i)»», and did tremble.
Shaluff. C<,rit,l.
a ditch of mud.
2. Having the nature of a fever.

It haih

Cotuley.

whom they arc

lefler bone of

high as the knee, receives the lateral knob

!

Thefe, by reafon of their feu'ne/t,
dillinguilh from the numbers with

of plants pafs uiialArbuthrtot on Alim.

of the upper end of the tibia into a fmall
finus, which it has in its inner fide.
Its
lower end is received into the fraall finus
of the tibia, and then it extends into a
large procefs, which forms the outer
ankle.
^imcy,

To

Fe'wnkss. »./. [fromy>7f.]
1. Paucity; fmallaefs of number.

ground j

leg; and its upper end,

water to boil, which being lighted graBtntley Herm.

To Few EL. v.

1.

FE'UILLEMOkT.

infplrc

duallv will never be able to do it.

2.

r»om

Fl'BULA.

Deshjm.

FE'vERous.a/^' [Jlrvreux-/e, i'Kncbi from

or reduced to make
round the oval.

'I'hefiiroas and folid parts
tercd through the intellines.

A known quantity of/en-t/, all kindled at ouce,
will caufe

it fro.-n the

This way and that he wrcnch'd ihefiirtui bands,
'I'he trunk was like a fapling in his hands.
DryiJ.

feed with fewel.

Four nights th' moon bclield th' incellant tire ;
itfcem'd ai if the ftars more fickly rofe.
And larOier from tht/t'vcrtjh North retire. Dryd,
Fi'vFRlSH.N ESS. n.J. \UnmfirceriJh.'\
flight diforder of the fcverilh kind.

it

A well-grown oak, to root

Otliers may give the fewtt or the fire

Ai;d now four days the fun had (ccn our woes.

uii; deicrriMne viherher you would have

all wool and tow, and cotton
and ."ilk, have agreedinefs of moillure.
Jiacon.
Ifaw Vetreiis' arms employ'd around

If a fpark of error have thus far prevailed, fallins
even where the wood was green, and fartheft off
from any incliuationunto furious attempts, mult not

S^viftto Pope.

3. Uncertain i inconltant; now hot, now
cold.
We tofs and turn about efisrfeverijk will.
When all our cafe muil coroc by lying llill
For all the happineli^ mankind can gain.
Is not in pleafure, but ia reft ffom pain.
Orjita,

FEVILIACE. n. f. [Fr«nch.J

The difference between bodics_/i})-o« and bod!e»
vifcous IS [lain , for

ble matter; materials for keeping fire : as
firewood, coal.

Arbutbnttt on Aliment:.

3.

Drydeit.

Vi'BS.ovs.ad;.[fibreux, French; fromfibre,]
Compofed of fibres or ftamina.

I

Tending to fever.

AIiyri'V-.jM kinds,
Conrulfions, epilepfie?, fierce cjlarrhi.

Chcyne'% Phil, Prittr.

The firm refolve here in_/ft£» difclofe.
Popf.
Fewci.. >/. /. [/«, French.]
Combufti-

ADi^n-cri/h nature burns iu her own fire. Crtecb.
When an animal that gives fuck lutmfnitrijh,
that is, its juices more alkaline, the milk turns
ftom its native genuine whitenefs tu yellnw.

of an incredible number of little y,i//.'j

woman, what is this which thou liaft done ?
Mllto«.

and is found wild in many parts of England. Miller.

fibre

bound together, and divided into little cells.

So having fald, he thus to Eve \njhii

Fe'verish. aJj. [itotn fiver.^
1. Difeafed with a fever.
To other climates beafts and b'.nU retire,

4.

The muftlcs confift of a number of fibres, and
each

llooier

Common Jrvtrfcvi is the fort ufed in medicine,

Dryden.

A fmall

fibre or firing.

contain is la/irw but this.

Aye/ifft,

A plant.

Kfcvcttjh dilorder difabled me.

.And every fiackcn'djfirc drops its hold,
Like nature leiiing down the fprings of life

The name of father awes me ftill.
Fi'bril. j.'.y. [//^r/7/^, French.]

;

FeVerfew. a.yl [_/^cr« andy^fo, Latin.]

2.

.-

T he imagination of a poet is 3 thing fo nice and
delicate, that it '\i no eaCy matter to find out imagie^
capable of giving pieafure to one of ihtfe^, who,

Shake to look on't.
S'iaitfp. ^itt. am J Clef.
Her blood ^Ifcvn^d^ and with a turious leap.
She fprung from bed diltrai^ed in her mind.
Drxd,

[ixom fez-er.']

Drydeii.

out, according

fiecaufeit long has rag'd within my blood ?

n. f.

and a third fort are hard and
flexible, as the/i5;w of the bones. Some
fo very fmall as not to be eafily perceived^
and others fo big as to be plainly feen
and moft of them appear to be compofed
of ftill fraallcr/^m xtie.kfibres firfl conflitute the fubllance of the bones, cartilages, ligaments, membranes, nerves,vcins,
arteries, and mufcles.
^lincj.
My heart finks in me while I hear him fpeak,
fibres:

Men havey^ttfror more fimflc ideas from with

ShArff.

Should not aliiigeringyfx'cr be remov'd,

Fs'vERET.

F I C

Tor who would virtue for herfelf r^ard,
Or wed without the portion of reward ?
Dryjeg.
On Winter feas we fiiver ftorms behold,

ftancy

;

». /.

[from/f^/*-.]

uncertainly ;

Incon-

unfteadinefs.

kleither her great worihinefs, nor his own fufiVrinj for her, could fetter liis/r,}/f/ir/i,- but, belore
his m>rri.igc-day, he had taken to wife that liacchi
ot

whom fhc complained.

Sidmv

Ikware of fraud, beware of ficklene/s.
In choice and change of thy dear loved dame.
Jtairy ^jtecn.
I am a foldlcr,

tnd unapt to weep,

•Or to exclaim on fortune's ficklcnefs.
Shnkifp.
Inftability of tempar ought to be
checked, when
It difpolcs men to wander
from one fchtmc oT governmentto another, fincc fuch a >>/(/?«/, cinnot

fl<-lhy//ir;.- others aie moi'cfolid, flexi-

but be attended with

ble, and with a (Iro.ng elafticity orfpring,

Whether out of >i/,»,yi or dcftgn I can't telli
I
found that what Ihc likoi one day flie dilliktd
anotiicr.
Addijm.
Fi'
s

a.;

the

incmbrimoui and cartilaginous

D

fatal corifcijuentcs.

Addifott.

FID

F I D
mJz: \f(oia ficlU.]
certainty or ft»hiKty.
•
tte not no*.
Like a )-oimg wjlicful bcir, raortgsge the hopes
Of godlike mijctty on b»nkru|* tormj.

Fi'cSLT.

F I E

Oihers irapoM yet aebler arts from Ttlnce,

Without
|

Teach k.ngs »fitld>*, and make fenates dance.
2.

To raife « prcfciit pow'r ihxViJitklj hdd

lilaiana

fjiici'jr-j obedience, unlefs at her own home, where

To trifle to (hift the h?nds often, and
do nothing, like a fellow that plays upon
ifdJh.

flic is cxemflarily loyal to berfelf in a high txxQr
'
Ha^il.
obedience.

;

A cunning fellow oblcrved, that old. Lewis had

FI'CCK jr./. [Italian.] An »St of contempt
done with the fingers, expreffing afit^for

dole away part of the map, and faw h.\m fidJIiKg
and turning the inap, trying to join the two pieces
Arimlinsl.
together.

HiTin; once ttcottied his fortit&, ht then |i«s

Good cooks cannot abide what they iuftly call_;f</MitigwviV, where abundance of timeisfpent, and

Carrrr.

thejfi-3 ubisadnrrfiuies.

little

Fi'cTiLF.«<^. [fithlis, Latin.] Moulded
iato form ; manufaiSuredby tr.e potter.
The oafe of fragility is an imfotency to be

Fl'cTi-ON. »./. \fiaie, Latin; /rf«»», Fr.]
1. The aft of feigning or inventing.
/fn.Vn of the niiod, be a fufScicnt ground toworftiip
tharimige, is not God's ncl wcfcnce in every crea-

n

Let oo (i\\c\jjijd.'ft prcfume :o intrude,
Brn Jm/bk.
Uolcfs he IS fent for to vary our blifs.
Nero put the fddltrs to death, for' being more
TajjUr.
wis.
he
the
trade
thaa
(kilful in

1 he thing feigned or invented.
If thnxigh mine ear? pierce any confo1ation«»

By wife difcourfc. f\veet tunes, or pott'sjM/Mr j
apples

Thefe will appear fuch chits in ftory,
•Twill turn all politicks lo jttb,
Tobe repealed like John Dory,

which

WhenyiVJiVij fing a! feails.

If ought I ceafc thefe hideous exclamations.

Suinty.

So alfo was theJfflJwc of ihofe golden
kept bv a dragon, taken Httia the leipent,

Fi'cTious. adj. Sfihhs, Latin.] Fictitious;

A word coined

hf Frier.
With faacyV raks andarbtlrary bwt
Matter and motion man icftratus*

And ftudicd lines xr.i.Jia'»ui circles dra«a.

frl»r,

FICTl' I lOUS adj. [foJitiju. Latin.]
J. Counterfeit;

falfe;

the rtrings of a fiddle.
His C'ii>'> beard kas long and thick.
With which he Ui jng \\iiJidtUiJici.

ones ; and Belinda iciemblea you in oothii^c but in
beauty.
tofe.

Not real ; not true ; allegorical ; made
'"

~
'

'"

s

poem, btonght into it two thararter

[ f?om jtSrVww. J

FsKcty; counierftrirlr.
Thrfc picc« irejlili;i.^r V f?t <l.rw-n, and hart i»
An-nw'r i'Mj^jr Erftmrt.

Fro. n. /. [Jd.M, Italian.] A pomtn'. iron
with which feamea untu id their cords.
Siimter.

FlTDDLE.

[f*e!e, Saxon;

Ik Ton^ ; but biailcs ofT in the Middic.
Silt tried iht^isii ill a«w,

fUdtrji.

by drawing the b*vv

c

•»er e«r) pjrt
the rtiitif*) but a>t.M cot. kr her
bcjtt, tiad. witc:tadc4it ibeiune lay.
^Ut'/u.

S«Fl[>Di.E. r.; M. ffrom the aoun.]
I.

T.
T^

"

Fi'dility. »./. [JUrlitas, Litla ; foklite,

;

Or great Ofiris, who fint taught the fwaia
P»^j.
In Pharian/fii to fow the golden grain.
^. The open country ; oppofed to honfe or
Since his majefty went into tht fold,
Sbakeff. Macb,

I have fcen her rife from her bed.

The ground of battle.

5.

A battle; acampaigTi; theaffa'on of an
army while it keeps the field.
You maintiia fcvrral factions;
And whilft 3.fo!d fliould be di^tch'd and fought.
&luk^^
You arc difputing of your generals.
What thoi^h thefolJ be lolt.

A wide expanfe.
The god a clearer fpace ftw heav'o dcCgn'd }

Whcn^Mtof If ht and liquid ether flow,
Puig'd from the pond'ious dtejs of earth bclaw.

Thechurch, by her publick trading of the book of
Cod, preached only as a witnefs ; now the piincipai
H>^tr.
thing requited in a witoefs xifidkliy.
2. Faithful adherence.
CJarii.

Iv. «f. [A cant word.] To
move nimbly and irreguJeFl'DCET. J

TiFiPGE.

It implies in Scotl.ind agitation.

Tim, tbou'n the Pu.ich to Ihr up iru^ibie
Youvi-ri<gle,_/fJgif, and make a rout.
Put all yoi;r brotner p«pp"' O"""'-

FlDX''ciAi. mdj. [fdiKui, Latin.]
dent r \jndoubtihg.

Why Jove's fateUites arc Icfsthan Jove.
S.

Fcfr,

Space; compafs; extent
I'he iU-nalur'd man gives himfelf a Urfffoidta
expatiate in : he expofes failings in human nature.
i fhould ent^r upon a folj too wide, and too
much beaten, if I thould difplay all the advantages

Jimuirid^e.

ot pe;ce.
S^.i'if:.

Who can ih'ufoidaf miracles funrey.
And not with Galen all in raptures (ay.
Behold a Cod, adore him and obey.

that faiih is the only iiiltoument of his juttihcatien
and esciodes good works foua coauibutlcg any thing

Flt)t;'c!.**T. c^.
Confiicns; 'ready;

Dryd.-^

A(k of yonder at{ent/V/j!» above.

Confi-

Faith is cordia!, and fuch as Cod will accept of,
when it alTordj ^JsttuJ reliance on tS: proatiics,
and obediential iubmitbui to the commaiidL
Hanmtd'i Praa. Ctlrci.

tokxatdil.

MiJiat'i PdTad!/ete{U

All is not loft.

7.

Honetiy; veracity.

larly.

Luke.

than fecures him fit>m it.

6.

French.]
1.

iiajciaMU.

undoubting;

un-

> feaR to touch a
That faith, which is required of as, js dien per,» ..^.j,^J,t,
late, :.i ,.>.
biithe c*uld maVe [feO.. when it ^naduces in ws *_fd»ifU)f alliciii to
ia*ia a (teat cit^..
B^am't fj[-y.
H'uit.
wiutcter the Gcrpel has retcaieij.
t

3. Cultivated traft of ground.

H-jd!iras.

touched with do'jbr.

.

AyMft.
were buried out of the city in Hit folds.
Ground not enclofed.
Field lands are not exempted from mildews, nor
yet from liaut, where it is more than in incWed
Mortimer.
lands.

2.

When a man is in the folJ, a swderate (kill in

•«*/,
Dntch ; jSi/el, German ; fiUctla, Latin
Latin.]
A {bia^^ inllrumsat of FlDu'ci»»Y. H./. [fidmcieriis,
full, Erfc]
I. One who holcU any thing in truft.
flMitkk ; a vlolia.
;. Oof
who depends oa faith uithout
In trials af anu&cal dcin tl« jirieci did mt crown
works.
StUiiagJmt.
iheAMdir but-dw pafctaiex.
'ill* adientinc of the bear xiASJJh,
The. ItcoBd obftrrfti« is that of ihe^ArrMns
». /.

RMJtlgk.
And all the craggy mountains yield.
By the cJVU law the corpfe of perfoos deceafed

fencing rather expofes him to the fw^rdof hiseoemy,

Tliey millake cieduliiy fsiJlJeitty.

taijSSilftm oatare in the pcrfons oi :;.. -.
;. ,
fcy whivh means lie has ir*ierwoT«n in his tat>le a very
bratitilul alleKorr.
Addif. Sfrn.

copy III natijir.

That hills and rallies, dale inijSrlJ,

AJieMrJhirg, moiiiened with water, will fiiik a
note in a liiilc lime, and confequently mull be icytrimiru.
laaed or lengthened one liiteenth.

DryJtn.

Feigned; imaginary.
The human pettons are ts^fh'lltMt as the ain,'

4u/v.

Live with me and be my love.
And »< will all the pleafute pra%«.

quarters.

Fi'ddlistrixc. a. J. [fddU and Jirii-g. ]
1 he ftring of a fiddle ; that wbiidi makes

Draw him ihjftly fo,

FicTt'rrouauT.

Ground not inhabited ; not built on.

Sni/r.

bow and hair which a tiddler draws over

not genuine.

Milton, fenlibte of this defrfl in ihr

teld, Dutch.]
1.

the noifc.

We needs no trappings oi JSBUitmt fame.

}.

ArhiNmot »« Cains,

Field. *./ [pelOj Saxon; /eld, German;

Fi'ddlestici. «./. yfiddu and^Jn-i.] The

"Hut all who view the piece liiay know
2.

Drydrm.

hjidjitr may a fortune get.

A fahehood; a Ive.
imaginary; invented.

pofrelTots were obliged to do perfimal fervice at fea.

When mifs ^iehgbts in Iter ffiBnct,

Xaleigb.

tempted Erah.

1.

Dryjcx.

As they were honoured by great privileges, fo tberr
lands were in the nature of /r^, for which tl«

Fi'ddlir. k./. \i\om JidJif.'] Amuiician;
one that plan's upon the fiddle.

is

While that myfoullheliicsioatBt^ious.

To the next realm (he fttetch'd her fway.
For painture near adjoining lay,
A pier.teoos pnxrioce and alluring prey
Axhambcr of dependeiKies was fram'd.
And tlie whole// io right of poetry slie cUira'J.

Arhutbrntg.

a reftmblance in one ol' hamin
bodies, things, and aflions, which are not real ; and
Dryitn.
the other ot a true ltor>- by a_/£a"M.

3.

periourt

Trifles.
She u\i that T.tst grandfather had a hoife (hot at
Edeebill, and their ancle wtb at the liege of Buda;
wim abundaace vi JiiMrfadilc of the fame nature.
Sftaater.

She \v.i$ a XjoahXthntJUJUfjJdlt old wt>maii, and
lb ceremonious that there was i^o beariag of her.

tuie a tar betlerground to»\>nhip it ^ Siitlingfitit
FitiicK IS of the eflen«of poetry, as well as ot

FIEF. »./. [fef. French.] A fee ; a manor;
a poifellion held by fome tenure of a fu-

[A cant word.]

*. /.

Fi'oi>LE PADDLE, adj. Trifling; giving
trouble, or making a bullle about nothing.

If the rtefence of Cod in the image, by a mere

painting: there

Svfi/i.

do:*.

Fi'ddlefabdls.

oetendedj and theretorert-'ni i» more fragil thin
nctal, aad fo /taile eaith is more fnigil than crude
A^rri'j N*t*rmi Hijhry.
earth.

can rely no where upon mere love and

Ptft.

Sttthrm.

By tlie fraii tenure of the people's will.

Not to Be doubted.

I.

The ground or blank

9.

fpace

B'jdmcrr.

on which

figtires are diawn.
or ground of the pi£tvre be AnsY
Let tlie
D'\S'-.
light, and well united with colour.

foU

[In heraldrj-.] Thefurface of a iV.ic;,^.
Ft'ELDED.fl^'. H'toca Jleld,'] Being in field
10.

of battle.
Now, Mars, I pr'ythce, ixuke us qeirk in work f
That tre with ftnoaking fwtjrds may march &o'iii
hetKC,

Sluie^rent't CtriJ^
To hcip vafolded friends.
FiEiD-BAsiL. j». y. [fold aad iajil,]

A

plant.

Fi'fitDBED. »./. r ^ ''-- ' k'd.] A bed con.,
the field.
trix'cd to be fct
•.

iv ,.iy rrockle bed.
Romeo, food nigi.. ,
lleep.
Shjleif..
Tluifoidttd ii too coU for mr
>

>.

t...

FlELDTAR-E.

F I E

F I G

F I F

Fi'iLDFARi. ti. f. [pelfe and pp'an,
wander in the fields; turdus tilari:.'\

Quicknefs fo attack ; keenncfs in anger
andrefentment.
The Greeks are ftroag, and Ikilfu! to their (Irength,

to

A

bird.
Winter birds, as woodcocJcs tnijiihifam, if rfiey

4. Violence ; outrageous palfion.
His pride and brutal _/r#rre»£/i 1 abhor
But fcom your mean ful'picions of me more. Drydfn^
5. Vehemence; bafty force.

Bacon.

judicial
writ, that lies at all times within the year

burrows in banks.
and makes her houfc «ith various apartments.

nel, lieutenant-colonel, and major.

to

fheriif,

gaaw their roots, ar.d ki'.K
Mtrtimer' : Hvjhendry.

command him

to levy

I

.

fourth.

^^&

With rn;;iruig
you iereae^ move.
In your f/ii orb, and lule the realm of love. DryJ.
Jull as I wilh'd the lots were caft on lour,
Myfclf ihcfi/tbPope's Odyjfcy^

the

debt, or the damages of his gtxxls, againd

whom the recovery was had.
Cmvel.
Fi'eRINess. »./. [from/cry.]
1. Hot qualities; heat; acrimony.
The alhes, fay their heal, their fer'inefi, and

z.

.

their dryaefs, belong to the element of earth.

Fi'eldpiece. «^'. [y&/</and/«w.] Small

FIFTH, adf. [pip:», Saxon.]
The ordinal of five ; the next to the

and day, for him that has recovered in
an aftion of debt or damages, to the

TUcfclJimuft builds her gamer under ground.
DiyJe*.

Fi'eldofficer. ». /. [field ix\A offinr.]
An officer whofe command in the field extends to a whole regiment: as the colo-

Oramiti Hills of Mortality.

A

Fierifa'cias. »./. [Inlaw.]

A moufc

Ttildmice are apt to
them in hard winiers.

not be recovered by any water of feparation, except
you put a greater quantity of filver to draw up the
lefs.
Bacon's Nat. Hijl.
London fend* but lour bufgelTes 10 parliament,
although it bear the ffirtrrtb part of the charge of
the whole nation in all puWick taxes and levies.

Sbaktff.

Fi'eldmarshal. n.f, [JlfU md mar/hal.]
Commander of an armj- in the field.
Fi'eldmocse. n.f.^ftUmAmoTi/e; niiedula.'l

Aj^/>«<K(Apart olfilver incorjioratewittigold, will

Fierce to their Ikiil, and to iizufitrcenrp valiant.

come early out of ihe oorthcra couniries, with os
Ihewcold wintcrt.

ordinal of fifteen; the fifth after the
tenth ; containing one part in fifteen.]

2.

cannon ufed in battles, bot not in ficges.
The baflj planting his _^.7yf/Vm upon the hiUs,

Heat of temper ;

The publick (hall have loft {oat fifths of its annual

H^lr.

income for ever.

intelleftual ardour.
to appear fober

Fund. «./. [penb.ponb,
1.

•

when to ill thy mind

When tlic Uft deadly fmoalc aloft did ftcam.
,

Than flatter him in a bower.
2.

Siairfu
'^'

-

Fi'jTY. adj, [ipiifxx^, Saxon.] Five tens.

A wlther'd hermit, h»e .'core VVioters worn,

1 drew this gallant head of

Savage; ravenous; eafily enraged.
Thou hunieii jne as zjitrcr lion.
%i.
2. Vehement of rage ; eager of roifchiet.
1.

Mijht Ihake ofl^^f/i/ looking in her eye.

Sbakif.
Jjdas ordained captains over ihoulana*, huhdreds,
Jijiiei, and lens.
1 Mjc. iii. 55,
In the Hebrew there is a particle confining but
of one letter, of which ilicre are reckoned up abuic
Lacie.
f/j bveral fignifications.

Vehement; ardent; adive.
Thenar)! expcdiiio.i be my wing.
Join's Mercury, and herald lor a king.

Pt^t.

;

And Tcageful Oaughicr, Jitrte iot human blood.

Hot like fire.

Hath thy /cry heart fo parchM thy tnfraiN,
That not a tear tan fall for Rutland's deatli? Shut.

FIERCE. /i<^'. \Jier, French fnx, Latin.]

IMlrudion enlen in the oracherotH twood.

PjJrf) Qfteta.

,

I kjiow, ihou'dfl sstbcr
Follow thine enemy in sjfery gulph

3.

Is bent, all bel! contains no foolerTli-W.

If this medium be rarer within the fon's body
than at itsfurface, and rather there than at the hundred jiart of an inch from its body, and larer there
than at xhrtfifiieth part of an inch from its body, and:
rarer there than at the orb of Saturn, i fee no rea.
fon why the increafe of deiifity (hould Hop any where.
Ncviion'i Oftiekt.

Ne rear'd above the earth his flaming cttft.

Shjkrjt,.

What no'.v, had I a body again, I could.
Coining from hell ; whttJimJi wou'd «i(h IbouUbe,
And Hannibal could not have wifh'd lo fee.
B. "Jonfox't Cat.
The hell-hounds, as ungoig'd with fteih and blood,
Purfoe iheit prey, and feck their wonted food
1\ajifr.d remounts bis courfcr.
Drydtn.
woman

Fi'ftieth. odj, [pipreojo^a, Saxon.] The
ordinal of fifty.

Yet hameffed his^ty footed team,

Tom is followed by the fool fnJ.
2. Any ii^femal being.

I

than plants.

Scarcely had Photbus in the gloomV Eaft

fatan ; the devil.

O woma*

Fi/tbly, living creatines have a more ^awff figure
Bacort's Nat. Hift.

Fi'ery. adj. {Uovafire.]
1
Confiding of fire.

An enemy; the great oieiny of mankind;

Simte/.

war.

And culi'd thefe^rry fpiritt fiom the world.
To outlook cooqucli, and to win rcnowa

FIG. n./. fi(us, Latin >^i>, Spanifhj ^b*.

Ev'n in the j.^ws of danger and of death.

French.]

StJH

4- Paffionate; oatragcous ; eafily provoked.

!.

You know iheji.ry quality of the duke;

Tyrantsjfrr^<', that unrclenliog die.
Pitt.
With that the god, whoTe e^Thi|uaIc« isck the
ground,
Fitrte to Phcracia croft the vaft profound.

P»pr.

3. Violent ; outrageous ; vehement.
Curled be their anger, for it viajieret; and tfccir
•rath, Cw it was cracl.
C«r. Ilii. 7.
4. Paflionate; angry; farioas.

Th if Jirrir ibndgment
H]^h to it ci-:«nnih

--

'•

l

In his o«-n courfe.
Sbakr/p. King Lear,
5. Unreftrained ; fierce.
Then, as I faid, the duke, great Bolingbtoke,
Mounted upon a hot andj$>y> (teed.
Which hisaffiringriderletm'd«) know,
Wiih (low but (lately pa.;e kept oi'i his courfe. SijJt
Through Elis, and the Grecian towns he flew:
Th" audaciou* wretch four/rry towfersdrew.

.

-« for

potttioo: wbo.'e etideau Ut has oetM cximiixd.

6.

'

'

t ;

with celerity.

The Ihip, thoL
r dn.ta of /utct
wind.; yet they aic .,..._ ...,,,; witij j very"fcu!l
°*'"j/n. i:i. 2.

Fi'kicely. adv. {{torn fierce.] Violently;
furioufly.
Battle join'd, an4 both (ides/^cr/^ fought
5*7*.
defend .nr?,/,-rft'/y a.<l.iled by their enemies
K.!^*"
ieforr, and beaten wuh ihe great ordnance
behind,
were grietouny diftrelTeJ.
Kmllri.

The air. if »ery cold, irriuttth the flame, jai

^ "ore/""^. »s 6te fc;rcheth in

yj^'^ ". "^
fc««jrwt.«tar.

Fi'ircEKESs.
I.

g^^^^
f,./.

[from fierce.]

Ferocity; favagenefs/

The defeft of hca; which pitt Kerenrfi
nafjrrt, aiay contribute to that rei^fmcftot

to oar
our Ian-

a.

^^•— "''<

'

/""'V-

— Mocd
:

by fmill hard feeds: the intire fruit is,
for the moftpart, turbinated and globular, or of an
oval Ihapc, i> ftcfhy, and of a fweei ta<te.
Miller,
I'ucccrded

Full on its crown a^g's green branches rife.

And Ihooi a leafy forett 10 the Ikies. Pope's iitljffey,
Orlc;;d me through the m<ire,

Heated by fire.

fury.
r.e out of 3 wood
» mer.llivMta
iM. fat from him, ot Ui\\f left
;

SUntj

2.

The fwofd which ia mtitjlery dolh not only cut,

c

.

r

It makeih^-fjiry better,, if a figtree,

means 01 that lieat wbuh it hath from

^"'f".

.

See! tram the brake the whining pheafantrprings.

Hac'jtt's Natural llijlary^

'

PIrs are great fubdiicrsot acrimony,

Short is his jjy; he feels (hcyfr;^ wound.
Flutter* in blood, and panting beats the ground.

Fife. ». /. [fi/h, French. J A pipe blown
to the drum ; military wind mufick.
Faieweli the plumed troops, and the big war
That make amSitioo virtue! oh iaiewelll
FarewtU the ne.ghmg ilied and ihe (brill trump,

Thefpii.i itiiiu,^ drum, the ear-piercinp//^,
Sbtikcf^sart.
Thus Ihe gay vi<»im, with fre(h garlands crjwn'd
Pleas'd with the Ut.niff,'% enli»eniiig f„i,rd,

Thnjujh gaaiiij c.-owd*in Iblcmn ftate piooeeda.
adj.

[pypyne, SaKon.j

Five

I hi-.-e dreamed and (Irpt ibo^e
(mac fifieoi years
and more.
Sb^k./f,. Tjitflxg ofiht Sbrt\o.

The

/irbuibnol,

7i Fic. -v. a. [bee FlCO.\
1. To infuit with fico's or contemptuous
motions of the fingt^^.
When Pirtol lies, do this, and fg me like
The bragging Spaniard.
Sbakr/p. Henry IV^
2.

To put fomething ufclcfs info one's head.
Low cant.

Away to the Tow (he goes,, and /]gf her in tlie
crown with another rtory.
h' Ejhangc

Fi'oAPPtE. «. /.
apple.

A fruit. A fpecies of

,

A

figapplc hith no tore oc kernel, in thcfc rcfembling ijtg, arji differing from oiherapples.

Moi tlyicr's llu/tan.jry,
It i^ fuc.culent, and has the appearance of hnufeleck : the leaves grow oppsCce by p..irs.

Ficma'rioold.

and ten.

FiPTEE'f«TH.«<ir'. [ppreoSa, Saxon.]

when it begin.

aeih to put lorih leaves, have hi* top cut oft'

I

And mount* exulting «o tiiumpbant wings

l-iFTFt'tj.

Embowering nidle's of the Indian^ff^.
Tbsm/ai.
A lufcious foft fruit ; the frtiit of ilie
figtree.

by rejion of the (lurpuers which limply it hath, bui
alfo burn by

5. Strong ; forciS'

and are male and female in the fame fruit ; th*
male Howers are fituated towards the crown of the
growing rear the (falk, arc
leaf,

fruit; atid the lemale,

"'

W/w.

A cojnbringi Nil X

A tree that bears figs.

The charaflers are: the (lowers, which are alwayi
inc'ofed in the middle of the fjyir, confilt of tile

How unremoveable, and lixt is he

1

Di.lir.aion IboulJ t>

In the fifth

place.

.ind

4id ffom thetice grieroufly annoy the defcadants.

KnoUet.
Saxon, a foe.]

Stvift.

Fi'fthly. adv. [from fifibJ]

The Italians, notwithftandiog thetr natural /f^r/nrfi of temper, aficft always

All the ordinals are taken elliptically for
the part which they exprefs ; a fifd, a'
fiftb part ; a ihrd, a tiird part.

7?./.

A plant.

^Jillen,

F

I

.Fic-evxT. «./. [atltJi fcariui.}- /itklak(i
of the fly kind.
iTa FIGH'i'. "v. H, iptt^t. fought;

ptrt. paff.

fiught. peohran, Saxon.]
). To contend in battle; to war;

Fi'gmekt. n.f, [j!gm<n!um, Latin.] An
invention j a fiftion ; the idea feigned.
Upon the like grounds was raifcd the figment of
Briareus,

to make

Kin; Henry, be thy title right or wrong.
Sbdi.
Lord Clifibrd vow« to^<^if in thy dcfccce.
Fierce fiery wjrriors Jigbr upon the clouds
Iq ranks andf^uadrons, acd right form of war.

Siah/f.
if wt

muft now fur-

trndcr Spain, what have we been fighting for all this
while? The anfwer is ready : we have been figMiig
ict! the ruin of the pufalicic inteieft, toi the adv^nccSwif:.
juentof a private.
For her confederate muoaijhugit, and kings were

'

.

Fl'crECKER.

A

Out fhall undertJce to fgbt againit another.
z Efdr.iXii.
The poor wien,
of
diminutive
birrfSt
ynWfgbt,
The jnoft
The youag ones her nefl, againit the owl.
Sbakefp. Macieli.
^'

-

m

•

Hy this brave duke cjme early to his grave.

•

^.

Oi honour, virtue, libert) and Rome.

are reprehended, partly dram.iiically, partly fimply
j
but, tor the moll ^urt, figuiath'ely and occuitl).

liable form.

[from fgure.l
Reprefented by dcliaeation.

Fi'cuRAL.
1.

adj.

Dryden-t Juu. lM!c.

Incongruities have been oommiticd bygeographers
in ihtfig^iral refemblances o; feieral legions;

Fl'cuRATE. adj.

Plants arc all figuratc and determinate, which
inanimate bodies are not ; for look how far the fpirit
is able to fpread and continue itfell, fo far goeih the
Bamt.
(hapc or Hgure, and then is determined,

2. Refombliiig

any thing of a determinate
retaining

J.

Ciabriel, lead forth to battle (hefe «iy fons

Invintiblc, lead lorth my armed faints^
£y ihuufands and by millions rang'd iovjight.
Mi'.tun.

JucL

Herilus in fingle ^gtr I flew.

Whom with three lives Fcronia did endue;;
fcnt him to the St%-gia» fltorc,

DtyJrn.

URATE Coiinterpoitit.

who ever faw a noble light.

1.

That never viewM a brave fea-figbt!

Hang up your bloody colours in the air.
Up with )ouT Jtgbts and jour ucttings prepare.
Dry Jell.
Fi'cHTER. n.f. [itomfight,\ Warriour;

libakejpttrt.

3. Perfon'; external form ; appearance graceful or inelegant, mean, or grand.

The bine German (hall the Tigris drink.
Ere I, forfaking gratitude and truth,
Forget the7>gttir of that godliltc youth.
Dryien.
\ v.as charmed w ith the gracefulnefs of M\ifigurt
and delivery, as well as with his difcourfes. AdJif.

A

^oo^figure, or perfon, in man or woman, gi^c•
credit at lint fight (o the choice of either. Ciarijfa.

Determination to a certain form.

2.

air in

variety of

While fortune favour'J, while his armsfupport

(Jblcurc, nor 1 without

AddifitCs CutirdtAii.

Whether or no ihey have done well to let you up
for making another kind oi figure, time will wiinef..

be in a certain order, there I'oUowclh

[fgurat'J'-ie,

Addi)t>n.

Many
throne,

French,
typical;

5.

z Chrcn.

it to grow rich, that he
and indulgence, and be ablr to
and hurry, his trade,
as to him, lofcs all its innocency.
Laiu.

As files tlic arrow fioai the well-drawn bow.

Pi>J>e.

reprcfcntative.

may

thev will fay, w-^sfigurative^ and ferved by
God's appoiiilmcut btit tor a time, 10 Ihadow out
the true everlalling glory of a more divine I'andlity j
whcrcinto Cliriil being long fince enttied, it lecmelh
curious txornalioiis fliould raihorccare.

Hiihr.

live in figure

letire Irom bulinel's to idknel's

'I"hi5,

tliat all ilicfe

Magnificence ; fplendour.
If it be his chief end in

;

1. Occupied by war; bdng the fceoc of
war.
In fghilxg fields at far the fpear I throw

princes made very ill figmet upon the
who before were the favourites oi the people.

Addifvn^s Freebelder.

from^//in, Latin.]
Repreicnting foinething elfe;

DryJei.

by the knight to inl'orrn the court, as to give him a
figure in my eye, and keep up his credit i«ti t^e
country.
AJ.IiJln's Sfeciat^r.
Not a woman (hall be unexplained that makes a
figure z\}^x as a maid, a wife, or a widow.

vivification Mvi fi'euriitii,ii in livinp; creatures pcr':i>.
B.ic^/1's N.ir. liy}.

1.

my Iharc of lame.

The fpeech, I believe, was not fo much dencmd

B.ic^K's Njt. Hi/f,

Fi'gurative. adj.

eminence;

The caufc, and rul'd the counlcis of the court,
I nude iom^ figure there; nor was my name

The aft of giving a certain form.
It .motion

Diftinguifhed appearance;
remarkable character.

4.

Harris.

[Jlgurattts, Latin.]

words.

Shjkeff.

Dryd. Allfor !.<,%•(,
The moft delibcr.itr/^A;«-'.'
Ft'cHTINt;. participial adj. \{\omfght.\
fit for battle.
Qualified for war
1
An hoft offghiirrg men went out to war by bands^

J.

and aiiii;ulate/g«i.<(/<« of the

and defire fomc

conduct of the lady : 1 am no Jigktir.
O, 'lis the oclJcIt youth upon a charge.

71.

Neither doth the wind, as far as it car. ieih a voice,
with motion tliereof confound any ot the delicate

ducllift.
will rclurii aeain into the houfe,

[In mufick.]

adorning the compofition.

Figura'tioN.

(hips,

.

Fi't'

age, doing in defigure of a iamb the teals of a lion.

this are introduced all the varieties of
points, figures, fyncopes, diverfities of
meafures, and whatever elfe is capable of

Something to fcreea the combatants in

1

the deluge.

Harris.
cords along with the concords.
4. Figurate D.?,'(-/7«/. [In mufick.] That
wherein difcords are concerned, as well,
though not fo much, as concords ; and
may well be termed the ornament or rhetorical patt of mufick, in regard that in

'Till the lall ebbing foul return'd no moie.

J.

as, figurate ftones

That wherein there is a mixture of dif-

J. Battle.

1

b)-

:

Shape; form; femblance.
He hath borne himfelf be\ond the promife of hii

2.

the

forms of ftiells in which they were formed

Drjd. Mn.

ei(]ul(ite ^g.vi «, and the flower
andluur; as in priinrofc,
mulkrofcs, fingle pinks and giUu
flowers, which have Hve leaves; lilies, ftowtrdcluccs, borage, buglal's, which have four leaves. Bucaa.
Men find green clay that is foft as long as it is
in the water, fo that one miy print on it all kind
oi fig'tres, and give it what Ihape one pleat'es. Btyie.
Figures are properly modifications of bodies; ior
pure fpace is not any where terminated, nor can be :
whether there be or be not body in it, it is uni.
formly continued.
L(,ck*.

are chiefly five

briar-rofcs, fingle

\fguratus, Latin.]

form

Tight, n.f. [frorathe verb.]

Flowers have all

numbers

Of a certain and determinate torm.

1

Himlelf alone an equal match he boafts.
To ^^At the Phrygian and th' Aufonian horts.

>\tid thrice

the outline.

Such numbers as do

bat againft.

;

1

fidered, and are either lineary, fujierficial,
Harris.
or folid.

SanJys.

Combat

FI'GURE. «./. [/^«w, Latin.]
The form of any thing as terminated by

or may reprefent fome geometrical figure,
in relation to which they are always con-

The hot and cold, the dry and humid_^^i/.

2.

The culbm of the apoftle k figuratively to transfer
tohirafelf, in the tirll perfon, what belongs tooilicrs.
The words are different, but the fenfe is rtill the

Adiiifon.

To war againft; to com-

words originally imply ; not

fame ; for therein are figuruiivJy
intended Uziah
"
and Lzechias,
Brc^c/t.
Satyr is a kind of poetry in which human vices

To contend.
<r. tf.

that which
literally.

Barni.

are plebeian notions.

Siai.

Ye^gfc >^'VA the Chaldeaii5.
"Jcr.
The itars in their courres/ni/gA/ agn'mjl Sifera.

Js FtGHT.

.'\

flGvt.-\Bi'tnr. rr.f. [homfgitrahle.] 'Ihe
quality of being capable of a certain and

Z, ¥iG\J Si AU Numbfi:

has ivith before the pcrfon oppofed
.fometi mes againft.

|,.

DryJn'i yuxtiiat. Fief.

Fl'cuRATlVELY. adv. \Uam fgiiratixe
By a figure; in a fenfe different from

figurti'e and nolfigui ai/t, fciinbleand not fciflible,

It

"

fubliraelland with the moAflgurainr exprelKon!.

and retained in it. Thus lead \%jigurable,
but not water.
The differences of imprefliWe and not impreflTible,

Greatly untortunaie, ht Jights the caufe
•

•

nal fenfe.
Sublime fubjefls ought to be adorned with the

A'roti'77.

Richjrd, thai robb'd ths lion ot his heart,
Ani/ought the holy wars in Paleftiiie,

Rigf::

of rhetorical exornations ; full of changes from the origin
full

Latin.]

aJJ. from figuro, Latin.]
Capable of beii;^ brought to certain form,

To aft as a foldier in any cafe.

1,

their hrll ordinary intention.

3. Full of figures ;

ftck; fia-Jiila,

ixiA.

FI'GURABLE.

i. To combat; to duel; to contend in Cngle
fight.

n.f. \jSg
bird.

Latin.]
Fi'Gt!i.ATr. adj. [from fgulut,
Made of potters clay.

PidifT.

_

This is a fi^urjiin/e exprefSon, where the worda
are ufed in a ditfcrent fenfe from what they fignify in

mjbof LUyd.
rather an appearance of Jigmtni and
invention, in thofc that handed down ihe memory
IVooJivard.
of it, than of truth and reality.

figures from the
primitive meaning; not literal.
How often have we been railed at for underflanding
words in ifigwjiive fenfe, which Cinnot be literally
undcrllood without overthrowing the plaineO evi.
dence of fenfe and reafon.
SilUlngJIc't,

Hjcatonhim an
Broivn.

It carried

(lain,

.

city called

hundred hands.
Thofc ulisrtions are in truth the fgmrnt) of thofe
idle brains that brought romaneet into thurch hiiVory.

Trov wjj o'erthrown, and a whole empire fell.

.

whn, dwelling in a

Changed by rhetorical

2.

chiria, the fancies of thofe times afligned

war; .to batfici to contend in arms. It
is u fed both of armies and iingle coinbaunts.

The eoramon queftion is,

F I G

F 1 G

G

6.

A ftatue

;

an image; fomcthing formed

in refemblance of
Several llatues,

fomcwhat clfe.

which itemed at a diiUnce of the
whitelt

F I G
yrh'ittH mjrblc, w«re nothing clfe but To

mmyjtgum

«n (""ow.

grace, we thereby conceive how grace
indeed the very end for which thefe heavenly

were inftituted

fcribes,

bards,

Tliinic, fpeak, caft, write, fing, numljer
Hit love to AntJiony. Sbatc/i>r.ire' i Am. anJCleop.

but that

the diagram of the
afpefb of the aftrological houfes.
;

6.

I'pclls,

ky the fgurt,

Sbalt/ftarr.

j

Kreral and primitive fcnfe.
In ftrid accepcation, the change of a word is a ticfe,

i

afteft writers.

j

liCJii plotters

tigurtt pcdaotical, thefe Summer liies

cannot well live without it.

C<jijiir

Hiidibtas.
'J he pifmire
was formerly a hufbondman, that
lecreayfiicbej ivi3y hisnciglibour's goods.
L' E/i.
Fain would ihcy file b that little food away,

and luari; ficmia.\

While unrcftrain'd thofe happy gluttons prey.

adj.

Fi'lcher. »./. l^omfhh.]

They make cables of the bark of lime trees: it
is the ftalk that maketh the hUci-Mi
matter commonly, and fometimcs the down thatgioweth above.

/^i.

To Fi'cuai;. -v. a. [fromyirf«r«, Latin.]
I. To form into any determinate fhape.
Trce» and herbs, in the growing forth of their
boughs and brajicbe.', arc not figured, and keep ao

Latin.]
I.

Not ofed.

But letmerefume the^/<-of rnvnarration, whiclj
this objea of books, beft agreeable
to my coiirie of
lile,

i.

hatha little interiuptcJ.

A line on which

IVotioit.

papers

are ftrung ,to

keep them in order.
Al! rec.irJs, wherein there w,is any memnrvof the
king's attainder, fliould- be cancelled and la'kiii oft'

procefi, as well real as perfonal and mixt.

Accept thisgobkt, rough with _/%«(rV gold.

_

Dtyd. Virg

tbcjif/t.

Harris.

,

Fl'tAME.NT.

as

n. f.

in picture or ftatuary.

mtnta, Latin.

.*rachre_/fyi,rVbow Jove did abufe
Europa Ilk' a hull, and on his back
J Icr through ibe lea did bear
fo lively feen.
;
That it true fca, and true bull ye would ween.

fl'.-ndcr

]

A (lender thread

;

tinually fct apart an lioin in

a body

And many deaths of oneprefiiiiption make. DrjdeH,
3.

A catalogue

W'l.ich foim the fpringy teiturt of the

An.! tt,„l'e dill ftriVe the next;

,

I

'till

fbe lijjct: ukrj'ion propagate, the lifhf.
Slickm.
T he June of horfes 1: nothing but ih'. fiiamrnli
oftbc hay, »n4ata«h««fl\buftiV>»t-.
Ar^Mbket.

Sbai,

Tlie v3\u'ifilf
DiftinguiiTie- the fwifi, the How, thefubtlc.

lir

the (ight

roll ; ferics.

To hve iind iwentj ihouf.nul men of choice.

On il,e nc«I ihreads iisdfi/jmrrts dt.es b^ar,

My gorgrous palace for a lieriniuge,
My eayxpftatel foranalmfaian'igown,

;

Outpreicm mufters pioiv upon thcj57e

The e'/er-tollirig oib'. impullive ray

or

day to penile thofe, .

Krom files a random recipe they tak e,

.

g„,^

Sprvfrr.
Now mnrks the courfe of rolling orb« on high,
O'trfigui 'd world new travels with hii eyr.
I'if.t.

a

and then rank them into feveral^j'/er, according to
the fubjed matiers.
Bacon
Th'.ipothfcary-train is wholly blind j

and long like a thread.

more lightened //jmc/ir, it ftmetb not the
bodies
«>'"F0fed.
Ttie hiBgj of confumplives have been
confumrd,
nothing remaining but ihe ambient me mirane, ard
a number of withered veins xaAfi^am.itU.
iL'vry.

Baeon.

The petition-! being. thus prepared, do you con-

[filamoil, French; fila-

The efBuTiiim palGng out in a fmallcr thread, and

Sbakeff

A thread.

:

Bacon.

,

petty robber.

n. f,
[Jil/izariii!, low Latin.
filum.] An officer in the common Pleas,
fo called hcciufe he files thofe writs
whereon he makes procefs. There? are
fourteen of them in their feveral dinfions
and coimties
they make out all original

f'" grammar.] Any deviation from the

rules of analogy or fyntax.

Cay.

A thief; a

FILE. ». /. [file, French ; filum, a thready

Baci,n% t^aiural Hifiory.

Ar-rn
\\ LACER.
tniT

Drjd.

So fpecds the wily fox, alarm'd by fear.

Who lntcly7f/cA'</ the turkey's callow caic.

thread'

beliilhed the difcourfe ot thole, who undcrllood
the
art of fpeaking, were the very art and Ikill of fpeak-

My^«»»7 V goblets Im i j,;l. jj wot3.

Ifig

ftiiig ; fome like horlome likejiirVcA/d^wafps, others as drones.
Burton an Meiancboh.

vv hat made thee venture to betray,
had filch the lady's heart away.

[from fihtm, Latin.]
Confiding* of threads; compofed of

Stilllngjitet

To cover or adorn with tigures,
images.
I'll givemyjeweWlbr a fetof
b'ads,

nets,

MilUr.

Fir.A CFou»,

T1>ey have been taught rhetorick, but never taught
language; as it the names of they%ai« that em-

3.

and repub-

_ ^ plant.

fenfc ot the words ; tor by praying to
be underftood only praying to pray.

;

pettifoggers,

FlV.woRT. n. J.

Have blown ine lu;i of maggot ofteijtaiion.
Shjk.
Here is a ^Mi^cjigurr invented againll the plain

every bee did nought elfe but

Drviien.

CURS-FMJJCER. »./ Ifgure ZnA/iHg.]
Quacks, /)finr-j?,»g,rr,

(how by a corporeal refemblance

Robs me of that which not enriches him.
And makes me poor indeed. Sbakcjpearf's OihelTa.
Fk could difcein cities like hives ol bees, wherein •

A pretender to aftrology and predirtion.

I

Silken terms prrcife.

'tis lomething,

'T was mine, 'tis his, and has been (lave to thoufands;
But'he that^XriM from me mygood name,

Ai thro" a cryftal glafs Awfigur'd hours are feen.
., ,
1-1

Tujfer's Hu/i.
;

nothing

Each thought was vifible that roIlM within,

I

Three pil'd hyperboles, fprucc aftertation,

2- _To

Who fteals my purfe. Heals traih

j

I

Sfenjir.

The champion robbeth by night,
And prowleth indfi/cbeti by daie.

To note by charaifters.

9.

•

and any affection of a fentence a ^«/r ;
but they are confounded even by the ex-

•ni*'-

are continually

.A'«"'and ftolen.

'""'Pl'ori"' e»preflions do well to
•11 a'^"'^"''"''
illuftrate more abftrufe and unfamiliar
ideas, which
the mind is not yet ihoroughly
.iccultomed to. Locke.

[In rhetorick ] Any mode of fpeaking
in which words are dctorted from their

17.

'3'

thefts.

He (hall find his wealth wonderfully enlarged bv
keeping his cattle in inclofures, where
ihcy ihM
always have fale being, that none

not literal.

Romanj,

ing well.

Trmf/e.

Three glorious funs, each one a perfeft fun
;
Inthis the htiv^n figures fome event.
Shalefp.
S. To form figuratively; to
ufe in a fenfe

Who wa« thejSgure of liim that ii to come.

mud

men are

To prefigure; to forefhow.

7.

U. [In theology.] Type; reprefentative.

beftow,

To fteal ; to take bv theft ;
to pilfer; to pillage; to rob;
to take
by robbery. It is ufually fpoken of petty
original.]

Ho thought i.u\figmc, and no tongue declare.

If you were Bed to Rye or Dover.
HuJiirat.
''^"''-"ingeis and flar-gazers pretend to foretell
the tortune> of kingJomj, and have no fnrefight in
what concerns thejnfelves.
L'Ejirange.

and natural

which fome derive it, is of very late
produdion, and therefore cnnnot 'be its

If love, alas! be pain, the pain
1 bear

He fct ^Jigure to difcover

Mortimer.

Ft't^^u"'<v.
10 aiLf^H.
<7r
[A word of uneertain
etymology. The French word//cr. from

CT-

ima-

ginary diarms in riches .md praife, that
apt to do in the warmth of their blood.

and daubry beyond onr

!

bigger than either of the forme»
:
the beft are thofe

To imagine in the mind.

life

:

by

clement.

Donnr.

Nonelhatfeelsfcnfibly the decays of age, and his
wearing oflf", an figure to hirofelf thofe

We do not know what's brought to pafs under
the pnofeflion of fonunetelling Ihe works by charms,

Bacon's EJTajs.

Yet in ifi/iert 1 have often known
Maggots furvive, when all the kernel's gone.
Dorfet
There is alfo another kind, called the
filbert of
Conrtantinople; the leaves and fruit of
which are

more praiSicablc
ancients.
Dryd.
The emperor appears as a rifing fun, and holis a
globe in his hand to figure out the
earth that is enlightened and afluated by his beams.
Adiifati.

Scuth't Strmnnx.

The horofcope

10.

plumbs,

mufkmelons,

Thou haft a brain, fuch as it is indeed

like a glals ol nature, fguring a
virtue to us than was done by the

Aims, ft) in human attairs words pafs for things them'*!'«•

forts ; as

barberries, filberts,

On whatelfe (hould tliy worm of fancy feed?

An heroic poem (iiould be more fitted to the common aflions and paffions of human life, and more

ever good for the
publick : but he that plots to be the onXyfgure
VDoiig cjphers, is the decay of a whole age. Bicon,
As in accounts cyphers and Jigurrs pafs for teal
is

apricots,

monklTioods of all colours.

!

HguTf our loves ?

He that feeketh to be eminent amongft able men,

It probably

In Auguft comes fruit of all
pears,

Iherc IS a hiftoryin all men's lives,
Figuring the nature of the times dcceafed.
Sbak.
Marriage rings are not of this iluff:
Oh why (hould ought lefs precious or Icfs tough

poets

cannot

a great talk;

is

mvfteries

and the matter whereof they' confift

;

mfuclus figniHeth, /^OT-f/A, and reprefenteth their

A characler denoting a number.

hath

Shakt/f.

iiiv.lible

Main's Logkk.

tongues, fgures,

full of
had its name, like
many other fruits, from fome one that
introduced or cultivated it ; and is therefore corrupted from Filbert or
Filibert,
the name of him who brought it
hither.]
A fine hazel nut with a thin (hell.
beard.

When facraments are faid to be vifible figns of

Prior.

difpofition ; modification.

I'ht fgure of a fyUogifm is «he proper difpoftiion
of the mjiidlc term with the parts of the ijueftion.

Hearts,

and Simner from the long beards orhu(ks,
as corrupted from the//// ieard or

referablance.

Kindly throw in a \\\.t\e Jjgure,

9.

i'lhirt, fr, /. [This is derived by7««;as

To reprefent by a typical or figurative

J.

And fej the price upon the bigger.
;

to variegate with adventi-

meteors.

My favourite books and pidtures teJl;

Arrangement

F I L
;

tious forms or matter.
But this cfturioi) of fiich manly drops,
Stirile mine eyes, and make
me more amaz'd
Than had 1 feen the vaulty top of heav'n
Figured quite o'er with burning

_

7. Reprefentationsinpa'-.ting; perfons exhibited in colours.
In the principal jifg«/-« of a piOure the painter
is to employ the fineus of his art; foi in them
conGll» the principal beauty of his work.
Diyjcn.

8.

To diver/ny

4.

Ad.tlfm.

4.

A line., of foldiers ranged one

Shak.-

b^-hind

another.
Thofe pocidly eyes,

'

.

Tbit o'er tlicyi/.janJ nui.leiiof the war
{Ia^'«

.

•

And when the parent rofe dscayi »nd Jie»,

Have glowM like f'uei Man, nov kend,. now tHFji
Upun 2 cawoy tVoot, SLikcj'^icart^i Ant, And CUcp,
So faying, on he led his radiant^/»,
Miltcn's Paraiift LoJI.
•Daiiling the moon.
5.

Dutch.] An inftrument to rub down prominences.
The tough or conrfe-toothcjjfi', if it be la<g«, i?
callcit a rubb.:r, and 13 to take of the unevcncefs of
your work which the hammer made in the forging
[jcool,

Saxon;

'vijU,

Filia'tion. »./. [ffoin///«f, Latin.] The
relation of a fon to a father; correlative
to paternity.

The relation of pitttnity laijlintion, between the
firft

:

of the file.

The//«S"^ '"" mfiifed in vinegar, will, with

5<iiB. xiii. it.

a dccotlion of galls,

The fmithi and armourers 00 pal&eys ride,

copperolie.

FUtsia their luDids, aud hammeri at their lide.

'I'he chipping;

Drydttt.

Fi'l«cwtte».

n. /.

of fteel : //ffwWirj v(a
it to make their chilfeh, with whicl» they cut iheir
Atcxcx.
tiles.
tough

a

is

fort

To File, it, a. {itomfium, a thread.]

.

to fie a lull is to

.afier iv

Ffllon on tilt Clajf.

Ihokcr..

blemilh by filixg or ^cutting off the hud of fuch an

To fmooth

Ray.
to polifn.

;

His humour is

lofty,

his^ diffourfe

his tonguc_//fi/, and his eye ambitious.

4. [From plan, Saxon.]

To foul

.This fen^e

to pollute.
Scotland.

is

peremptory,
Siakt/p.
;

This mule being put in the /// of a cart, tun
j\lortimer*s Hiiji.
away with the cart and timber.
Filler. »./. [from///.]
1. Any thing that fills up room without
ufc.
'Tis a meet filler, to (lop a vacancy in the hexameter, and coniiedl the preface to the work of Virgil.
Dryd. JEn. Dedic,
A mixture of tender gentle thoughts and fuitable
exprelCon;, of forced and inextricable conceits, and
Pope.
of needlefs///frj up to the rell.

to furfeit.
Thou art going to lord Timon's feaft.
Ay, to fee meatjiV/ knaves, and wine heat fools.

not abreaft,

but one beliind

Tatter.

drew up in good order, w\ifit<:d off.

A brown or

yellow-browB colour.
,
The. colours you ought to wi(h for

contained.
I only fpeak of

.Fi'ler. n. f.

[fromy5/e.j

Hope leads from goal to goal.

plicd, you will lind

Xtvifi.

Latin.]
1, Pertaining to a fon ; befitting a fon.

My mifchievous proceeding may be the glory of
kit fi/ial piety, the only reward iww
a merit.
From impofttion of l>rift laws, to free

Acceptance of large grace ; from fcivilc feat
Milton.
1'ctfiliali works oiUw, to works of faith.
He gricv'd, he wept, the fighl an image brought

Of his ovia filial love, a fadly pleafing thought.
Orydtu.
2. Bearing the charafter or relation

of

9.

— As

I.

Thcfe morfds ftay'd their ftomach ; then the reft
Dryden,
They cut in legs mA fillets for the feaft.

To engage

up.

3.

;

Fillet of a ferny fiiake.

to employ

bit tar you ride ?
far,

my lord

,

as will/// up the ti me

'Twixt this and fupper.

4.

iytiakr/peare'i Macbeth.

To Fill. v. ».
I.

To give to drink.
Rev. xviii.

And thus tlie///fl/ godhead anfw'ring fpoke.
Miltam.

z.

I.

A»d to our dear (ricnd BamjuOj whom w« mifs.

z.

To grow full.

Svl/t.

Exodus,

To Fi'llet. -v. a. [from the noun.]

We fill to th' general joy of the whole table,
Sliakefi>.

Where the old myrtle her good influence Iheds,

Sbakefp,

[Inarchitcfture.] A little member vi-hich
appears in the ornamcRts and mouldings,
Harris,
and is otlierwife called liilel.
Pillars and their fillets of filver.

In the cupwluch Ibehath filled,/.'/ to her double.

a

Meat rolled together and tied round.
In the cauldron boil and b^ke.
The mixture thus, by chymick art
United clofc in every p.iit,
ln///<'/rtoird, or cut in pieces,
Appear'd like one continu'dfpecies,

Burnet.

lets viater requifite.

lO.ToViL

applied

Tho youth approach'd the fire, and as it bum'd.
On five iharpbruacher: rank'd, the roall they turn'd

To occupy by bulic

To Fill up.

Pfe.
:

commonly to veal.

moft of thofe that are proper 16r

There would not be altojctticr fj much water required tor the l.rnd as for the lea, to raife them to
an equal height ; bccaul'e mouniains and hills wobM
/// up part of that (pace upon the land, and fo make

fon.

Jpiijt of like leaf cret\ ihtirfilial heads

A belt her waiil, a/V/r." binds her hair.
The flcfhy part of the thigh

2.

war abfolutely ncce(lar)' Kat filling up the laborious
part of life, and carrying on the underwork of the
AJdifon en the IVar,
nation.

left for fo great

SulMeji.

Tope.

To fupply.
To Fill ///.
When the fcvcral trades and profelTions are fup-

filim^ Lat^]

part.
His baleful breadth infpiring, as he glides.
Now like a chain around tier neck he rides ;
Now like a///e/ to her head repairs.
And with his circling volumes folds her hairs.
Dryden' s JEn,
She fcorn'd the praife of bcaut^, and the care;

And opens ftill, and opens on his. foul
Till lengthen'd on 10 faith, and unconlin'd,
It pours ttie bill's i\\i\ fills up all the mind.

;

A band tied round the Lead or other

1.

To make full.

8.

Moriimer'j ilujhanjry.

FI'LLET. ». /. [filet, French

Dryden,
That he w ants majcHy lofill them out.
7. To Fill up. \Up is often uCed without
much addition to the force of the verb.]

One who files;

one who ufes the fik in cutting metals.
FI'LIAL, adj. \ filial-It, French; filius,

of carriage.
They have fix diggers to four fillers, fo as to keep
the fillers always atwork.

him

Whom pomp and greatnefs (its fo loofe about.

are blue or

jUtuut, turned up with red.

One whofe employment is to fill veffels

2,

To extend by fomethin'g

To Fill OK/.

Did.all the groffer atoms at the cell
•Of iiafictfitt off to form the pondrous ball.
Bluckmore.
And undetermin'd into order tall >
Ji'lf.mot. ». /. [corrupted from Jrueille

morte, a dead leaf, French.]

To pour out liquor for

drink.
6.

The place be-

tween the fhafts of a carriage.

;

To Fill out.

5-.

To march

another.
All ran down without order or oeremony, 'till we

•

[More properly thill.'\

2,

Siukrfp.

Te File. t. k. [from the noun.]
file,

To glut

—

retained in

His weeds divinely fel^ioaed,
.Ciapmati's llliadi.
.All//'</animingl'd.
in a

Milton.
Nothing but the fuprcmc and abfohite Iniinite can
adequately /// and fuperabundantly falisiy the infiCbtjne.
nite delires of intelligent beings,

With admiration and deep mufe to hear.

4.

to fully

For Banquo'siffuelvive I fil'dfay mind,
Tor them the gracious Duncan h»ve 1 xourJer'd.
Sbake/p.

.

Tofatisfy; to content.
He with his coiilbrtcd Eve
The (lory heard attentive, and W3sfill'd

3.

how they attempt to cure a

ovcrgrotvn tooth.

.

Pope.
Millon.

m more (paring terms acknow-

1

Tempting fo nigh, to pluck and cat myfill,
Milim's I'aradife Lofi,
I fpar'd not.
Which made me gently firft remove your tears,
That fo you might have room to entertain
Denham's Sophy.
Your/// of joy.
Your barbarit^ may have its/// of dcftruflion.

Be fruitful, multiply, and !n thefeas

nefs of<hat offer, ib
ledge little lefs.
Let men be care&il

3.

Milton.

lam vi\v>fi!l

And lakes and ruimiiig Itreams the waters///.

The^Kwhich would _^/e awayi moft frpm. tire Urge-

.

Mean while enjoy
Your///, what happioefs this happy (late
Miltoit.
Can compichciid, incapable of more.
Ataii' the tree now geU, where plenty hung

ii-

To (lore abundantly.

Z.

file.

1

faftion.
Her neck and breafts were ever open bare,
That aye thereof her kabes may fuck their///.
Fairj ^ee*.
But thusinilam'J befpoke the captain.
hii
war.
fcorocth
peace
Ihail
have
of
Who
fill
Fairfax,
When ye v/ere ihirfty, did I rot cleave the rock,
z Ejd, i. 29.
and waters flowed out to yiijifi.'l?

Exhaling firft from darknefs they beheld ;
Birth-day of Heav'n and Earth; with joy and (bout
Milton.
Tlie hollow univerfal orb they/// V.

w
:

Fill. »./. [from the verb.]
1. As much as may produce complete fatis-

?•

J-'l>n,

Infinitude, nor VaCuous fpace.
The cclelf iai quires, when orient light

in its order to

To grow full.

Neither thr Palus Meotis nor the Euxine, nor any
other fcas, /.'/ up, or by degrees grow (halbwer.
IVood^vard.
The firft (lage of healing, or the difchatge of matter, is by fuigeons called digeftion ; the (econd, o»
the filling up with fle(h, incarnation; and the laft,^
Sharp, <i
or Ikinniiig over, cicatrization

.Fill the waterpou with water, and they ///<ri/ them
\fp IQ the brim.

to fatiate.

To Fill »/.

4.

.

.

the notice of the judge.
From the day his firit bill
filed he hejjo to
Aibuih. and Pspt's Mail. Scrih.
coUea reports.
To.cui with;a
2. [From pepkn, Saxoii.]
J

and filings of thofe jewels are of

To FILL. -v. w. [):yllan, Saxon.]
To (lore 'till no more can be admitted.
1

I. To ftring upon a thread or wire. Whence

\

make good ink, without any
Brown.

more value than the whole mafs of ordinary authors.

A

[fit TtoA cutttT.\

iii.iker of files.

Gad-fteel

Fragments rubbed offby the adtion

Jle.'\

A //r for tfa« mottoctuaad. for tlie coulters.
I

Hale's Origin of M.inkini.

eternal.

Fi'uNGS. n. f. [without a fingular ; from

Moxon.

fiMjiU naade.

and fecond perfon, and the rela'ion between the

facrcd pcrfous of the Trinity, and the denomination
thereof, muff needs be eternal, becaufc the terms
of relation between whom that relation arifeth were

;

Things that arc fweet and fat are tatn filling,
and do fwim and hang more about (he mouth of
bacon.
the (lomach, and go not down fo fptredily.

Prior.

fU

the bathid- toothed
is ro take out of your work
the deej) euti, or file-ttrokes, the rough jiie made
the Hne-toothed fik is to take out the cuts, or 6Ieftrokef, the batlarJ^/^ made ; and. the fmooth^is to Uke out thofc cuts, or tilc-llrok», that the

3

To g!ut

.

With a lefembling face the daughter buds atife.

:

-

F I L

F I L

FI L

To bind with a bandage or fillet,
To adorn with an aftragal.
He in.idc hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their
thapilcrs, and fi/letud (hem,

>Ex, xxxviii. iS.

7*

.

Fl L

F I N

Tt FiLir. V. a. [A word,
formed from the found.

Slimitr,

fay*

This rcfem-

am not ab'e to difcovcr, and
therefore am inclinea to imagine it corblanoe I

rupted iToaifil up, by fome combination
of ideas which cannot be recovered.] To
ftrike with the nail of the finger by a
fudden fpring or motion.
If I io,filiif me with » ihrcc-man beetle. Shak.

Then let the pebbles on tlic hungry beach

A well-wayed horfc will convey thee to thy journey 't coal, wbea ao nabacked^'Z/jr may give ihec a
fall.
Suckling.

I jell

to Oberon,

ini filth of fenfual delights.

colt or

and make him fmile.

A thin

While the filver needle did work upon the

Naltily

L'EJlrange.
1.

Naftinefs; foulnefs;

Ii will but fkio inifilm the ulcerous place,

WhilH rank corruption, mining all within.
Sbakrffcare's Hamlet.

Fi'lmv. aJj. [from///?;.] Compofcd of thin
membranes or pellicles.
So the falfe fpider, when her nets are fpread.
Deep ambulb'd in her filent den docs lie;

And feels, far off, the trembling of her thread,
Whofe^Zpiyp cord ftiould bind the fttuggling Hv.
6rydeii.

The walps with fruitlcfs toil
flipfilmy pinions olt, to extricate

Bereave them of ihrir worthlefs fouls j fuch doom
Waits luiury, and lawlefs love of gi>in.
P/'ilift.
Loofe to the winds their airy gjrmcr.ti flew,
Thin glitt'ring tenures of tht filmy dew;
Dipt in the richcft tiofture of the Ikies,
When light difporu in ever-mingling dyei.
Pofe.

Tt V I'LT ER. f. a. [fliro, low Latin fer
;
f.litm Irahere.^

To defecate by drawing off liqueur by
depending threads.
to percolate.

;

FiLte*.

A twift

Muf^um

[//irttm.LMm.]
of thread, of which one end is

n.f.

dipped in

the liquor to be

defecated,

and the other hangi below the bottom of

Vol. 1,

Vwfia on Irelir.J.

At laft rcfolv'd to work \\\z final fmart.

Ho lifted up his hand, but back again did llsrt,

Souh's Strmuni.

Sfekfer' t fairy !^ei.n,

4. Refpefling the end or motive.

Some things in fuch f.)rt arc allowed, that they
be alio required as neceiraiy unto falvalion, by way
ofdiredl, immediate, and proper neceflityyi/i.i/) lo
that, without performance of them, they cannot by
ordinary courle be laved, nor by any means be eicludcd Irom life, oblcrvii.g them.
Hooker,
By its gravity air railcs the water in pumps,
fiphons, and other engines; anij performs all thole
feats which former philol'ophers, through ignorance
of the efliciciit caufe, attributed to x final, namely,
nature's abhorrence of a vacuity.
Ray.
Your anfwering in ihtfinal caufe, makes me be-

ow

lo Fl'LTRATE. 'v. a. [itomfitir.]

To

to percolate ; to filter.

The extract obtained by the former operation,
burnt to alhes, and tliofe alhei boiled in water and
Arbuthnoi on Aliments.

Filtra'tion. n.f, [Uomjiltraie.] A method by which liquors arc procured fine

lieve you arc at a lofs for the efficient.

way of folution, filiratii^si, and coagulation,
reduced it into cryllals, we put four ounces of this
purihed nitre into a llrong new crucible.
H(,yle.
ufual

[Corrupted from

/«•-

»/«/<•.]

Summer hemp, that bcais no feed,

which is called fimhie hemf.
Mortimer.
Good flax and good hemp, for to have of hti own,
In May a good houfewitc will fee it be ii^lffn
And afterwards trim ii, and fcrve at a s^td,
'Vhtfimlile to fpiii, and the carl; lor her feed. Tiijfcr.

flN. B./.Fpn, Saxon; viii, Dutch.] 'ihe
wing of a fifh; the limb by wliich he

Collier.

Fi'nally. /yf/tf. [fom/W.]
1.

Ultimately;

laftly; in conclufion.
Sight bcreiv'd

May chance to number llice with thofe

The filtration in ufe is llrain-

ing a liquour through paper, which, by
the fmalinefs of its poref, admits only the
finer parta through, and keeps the reft
behind.
i^mcy.
We took then common nitre, and having, by t^c

'I'he light

Dilute this li<|uour with fair W5ter,///re it
through
a paper, and fo evaporate it.
Qreiti's

/M/conquell of Ireland.
Mortal; deftrudive.

other, ought to have nothing of immoral, low, or
filthy in them.
Dryien's Dl/fre/noy.

Fi'mbi, E //fOT/. n.f,

Bacon.

3.

or a tragedy, fo neiiher arc they for a noble
ihe fubjedli both ot the
and ol the

filtrated, yield a fiery fjlt.

With vows, as their chief go»d, u\i final \\oft.Mi!ti.
Conclufive ; dectfivc.
There be many examples where fea-fights have

Henry fpent his reign in eftablilhing himfelf, ari
had neither leil'ure nor opportunity to undertake the

Groft; polluted.
As all ftories are not proper fubjcAs for an epick

ftrain ;

[/W, French ;/W/>,Lat. J
Ultimate; latt.
And over them triumphant death his dart

Shook ; but delay'd to ftrike, though olt invok'd

Fair is foul, and foul is fair;
Hover through the fog vaifiltbj air. Shak, Macielb.

:

BaioK.
to the

beenTfW to the war.

Fi'lthy. adj. [itomjilth.]
1. Nafty; foul"; dirty.

and clear.

Their feel in liquid ftiackles bound, 'till death

To ftrain

Itcentioufnefs of life imaginable.

poem

That admits

Fl'NAL. adj.

power, but gave themfelves up to all ilxfilllinejs and

piduie

Briism.

[from,/w.]

council, wherein he ac
knowlcdged himlelf favoured iu bringing his canle
finable.
Hayu'urd.

Thai their own mother loath'd tlieir bcallliiiefs.

2.

adj.

He fcnt letters

2.

Corruption ; pollution.
They held this land, and with l\\t\rfiltbiiteft

They never duly improved the utmoil ol luth a

I.

according to

;

dirtinefs.

by the film of the bladder,
and fo kept from gr.>ling or olTending it.
Grauni.
There is not one infidel fo ridiculoui as to pre.
lend lo folve the phjcnomena of fight, fancy, or co(lUlion, by tbole flecung fuperficial^/orr of bodies.
Hefnley*i Sermons.

gcel'e,

a fine
that w hich defcrves a fine.
This IS the order for writs of covenant that be

1.

And 'gan abhor her brood's unkiudly csiinc,
All were they born of her own native flime, Sfertfer.

He from thick_^/»tr (hall purge the vilual ray.
And on the fightlcfs eyeballs pour the day.
t'ofr.
To Fi M. f. a. [from the noun.] To cover
with a pellicle or thin (kin.

and

wiih fins or oars upon their feet.

Fi'nable.

Polluted this fame gcnilc foil long lime.

t/p

Iwans

wifely contriwd unto the adlion, and they are framed

Men of virtue fuppreflVd it, letk their (hising
Ihould difcover the oihtnfi'ltiine/i.
SiJary.
2,

like

method of nature in latirolfrous or flat-billed
birds; whid) being generally fwimmers, the organ is
ihc

finable.

Which that falTc fruit that promis'd clearer fight
Had bttd.
.Milion': Paiadi/i Laft.

3.

It is defcribed like fiffipe<l»», or birds whitih have
their feet or claws divided ; whereas it is palmipedous
cir fin.facted,

;

Fi'lthiness. n.f. [from ///Ay.]

fight

of hii eye, lo remove the film of the catarafl, he
never faw any thing more clear or perfed than that
white needle.
Bacon.
Michael from Adam'i eyes the ^/m rcmov'd,

1.

adj. \fin and /»«/.]
Palmiped ous ; having feet with membrane*
between the toes.

Titlo'Jc.t.

[(tova JUthj.}

lluck filthily in camel's llomach that bulls,
bean, and the like, Ihould be armed, and that a
creature of hit fize Ihould be left defcncclels.

Shakefftatt.

[pymlej5a, Saxon.]

Inlets unfeen.

FiN-FooTED.

It

pellicle or ikin.

held

'_

foully ; grofsly.

AdJifan'i Sfeffaler.

ii

Relt on theirfi'ns awhile, and (lay,
Then backward lake their wond'ring way. Dryden.
Still at his oar th' inJuftrious Libysplicsj
But as he plies, each buly arm Ihrinks in,
^ And by degrees is falhion'd to ^fin. Addifon's Ovid.

'

Such do likcwilceiceedingly difpofe us to piety
and religion, by purifying out fouls from the dro!s

I am joined in wedlock, for my fin», to one of
Uteit fillies who are defcribed in the old poet.

A (lone

Retirrns, and wins upon the ihore;

The wstiy herd, atTriglited at the roar,

oi

Corruption ; grolfnefs ; pollution.

2.

More,

Thus at half-ebb a rolling fca,

Bacon'i Natural Uifi.ry.
How perfefl then is man ? from hejd tp loot
Defil'd with ///A, and rotten at the loot.
Sandy\.
Though perhaps among the rout
He wildly flings \{n filth about;
He ftiU has gratitude and fap'ence.
To fpare the loiks that give him ha'pence. S-u'ift.

Fi'lthily. adv.

Neighing in likenefs of ifUj foal.

1.

wliich rauft needs take in a great deal

cities,

When I a fat and bean-fed horfe beguilf.

FILM. It. f.

long and flender, like pins and needles.

filth.

GMJiUies, but tits, yet a nine days of age.
They die elfe of geldiog, and gelden do rage
Young /?///« fo likely of bulk and of bone,
Keep itich to be breedeis, let gelding alone. Tajfti,

to a

cannot be by any percolations we can make, but the
faline particles will p«l» through a leuia'.d filter.

Neiiher may you trull waters 'that talte Iweet; for
they are commonly found in tifiiig gr.juiids of grcji

Fi'lly. n. /. Ifihy, Wellh ; filU, French.]
1. A young horfc or mare. Not now ufed.

A young mare ; oppofed
young horfe.

He that depends

Wifjom and goodnefs to the wle feem vile;
Filtks favour but themfelves. Slijkejf. King Lear.

the finger let go from the thumb.

and moves in the

Upon your favours, Iwims wiihyf^ of lead.

fouls.

A jerk of

body,

And hews down oaks wiihrulhcs. Slxikefp. OthelU,
Tharfim conlill of a nunitcr ot griltly bunei,

Ray 9M tiie Crcs'laji,
FI'LTH. «.f. [pl«, Saxon. J
1. Dirt; naflinefsi any thing that foils or

Bican't Natural llifiary.

his

water.

A ftrainer; a (earce.

^

We

2.

h.ilanccs

That the water palFing through the veins of the
earth, fliould be rendered frelh and potable, which it

Strike the proud cetian '^ainil the tier; fun. Shake/.
fee, that if you_/f2/i4 a lutertrmg, it llieweth

double or treble.

from

if.

2.

Fillip the rtars : then let the mutinous win4s

Fi'lli?. n.f. [from the verb.]

F I N

the vcflel fo that the liquour drips

Whom fHicme finally mult crown. Alill. Agonijles.
2.

Completely; without recovery.
Not any houfe of noble Englilh in Iceland was
utterly deltroyed, or finally rooted out by the hand
otjultice, but the houleol OL-rniouJ only.

Doubtlefsly

Davles,

many men arc finally loll, who yet

have no men s fins toanfwer lor but theirov/n. South.

FINA'NCE. n.f.
come;

profit.

[French.] Revenue; infeldom ufed in the

It is

ftngular.

1 hii fort of finance hath been incre.ifcd.

Bacon

The refidue ol ihelc ordinary finances be cafual or
uncertain; as be the cfcheals and forfeitures. BacjK.
His pretenpe for making vvarujion his neii^hbourt
was their pyracies, though he

pr.iailed ilie fame
trade v.hen he wasftraitciicd/inhis j*«./«riM at the
ficgc of

Byiantium.

Aiiulbnot.

FINANCER. n.f

[French,]
One who
colleiflsot farms the publick revenue; one
J

ii

who

who

publick

the

underftands

reve-

nue.

[from To /«<•.] In the iron
works, the fecond forge at the iron mills.

Fi'narv.

n.f.

Dia.

Ftnch. «./. [pnc, Saxon.] A
of which we have three kinds, the gold-

Todetefl; todeprehend; to catch.
When firdfound in a lie, talk to him of it as a

12.

flrange monllrous matter,

finch, chaffinch, and bulfinch,

Locke.

To reach

13.

_

Alk, aodil fl»U be given to you; fetk, and ye

Malt. in. T.
Whereas thou hjft fearched alV my (VvitF, what haft
iaoM found of all the houfehold Hurt? Gen. xxxi. 37.
She difappearM, and led roc dark j 1 wak'd

ftiilI/T</.

To find her, or for ever to deplore

MihoK.

Her iofs.

A bird that flies about,

And reafon not contemptibly with thefe;

Let iheyf»^irrfurely know

What happlnef», who can enjoy alone.

Mine is the wag;

Yet found them not fo large as viras his mind. Cewlry.

In

fits

and fings.

_

Cofulty.

.

To obtain fomething loft.
VVhtu hj haih fauiid his fheep, he layeth it oti
i-a/r, xv. 5.
his (houldeis rejoicing.
In my fchooldays, ^vhea I had lofl one Ihaft,
flight
fclf-fame
J fhoi his fellow of the
The feU-fami.way, with more advifed watch,

Tafind ihc other forth i

by vent'riiig both,

Xb^ieJp.-Merc/jMl of l^enice.

1 oXyfound both.

To obtain fomething defired.

3.

Thus 1 erabolden'd fpake, and freedom ufed

To meet with

^.

;

Milton.

To know by experience.
Hew oft will he

To determine: z.%,toii.vi^for the plaintiff.
to fare with
20. To Y\n\> himfelf. To be
Pray,
doSor.

Cmvley.
Coiuley.

to attain.

21. To Find

Huiierd.
Phyficians

With (harpcn'd light fome remedies mzvfind. Dryd.
A\\,find fome nobler theme,

Cowley.
Whereon thy doubts to place.
8. To difcover what is hidden.
Cowley.
A curfe on him v.hof'/und the oar.
9. To hit on by chance ; te perceive by ac-

cident.

They build on fands, wh'ich if unmov'd theyfind,
'Tis but becaufc there was no wind.

Coivi'ry.

To gain by any mental endeavour.
by converting cannot thefe erefl

1

From prone, nor in their ways complacence_^W.
Milton.
If we for happinefs could \i:\(\ire find.
And wand'ring time into a m.'thod bind.
fhouU not then the great aens' favour need.

We

Cowlry.

•

,

We oft review, each^n^/w^likea friend

out.

To Find out.

1.

To remark

fays

To Find

ftrong at-

out.

The principal part of painting is to find out, and
thoroughly to undcrlland,
moft beauliful.

Find

to obfcrve; to perceive.

Thin far to tiy thee, Adam, I was pleafed,
And find thee knowing not of bcall alone,
Whith thou hall rightly nati'd, but of ityfelf. Mi/i.
Cew/y.
Jicauiy 01 wilin all lyfii/.

medium,

Bacon,

In fubdance he promifed himlelf money, honour,
and peace in the end; but thofe things
were too fine to be fortunate, and fucceed in all
friends,

Bacon,

parts.

out.

as to draw it into praiftice, or whether it be too fine
Temple,
to be capable of it, I will not determine.

Keen; thin; fmoothly (harp.

5.

Great affairs are commonly too rough and flubborn
wrought upon hy the finer edges or points of

to be

what nature has made
Dtyden.

To invent; to

pellucid;

tranfparent:

the

as,

wine '\%fine.
Let the wine without mixture or ftum be all fine.

Or call up the mailer.
7. Nice; exquifite; delicate.

Jihnfon.

Are they not fenfelefs then, that think the foul
DaiAes,
Nought but A fine perfedlion of the limfe?

exco-

The irons of planes are let fine or rank:

they

hi fine when thsy Hand fo (hallow below the
working they take off a
Maxon't Med. Exer.
thin (having.
are

A man of Tyre, flcilful to wOrk in gold, and to
find out every device which fhall be put to him.
2 Chron. li. 14.

fole of the plane, that in

Artful ; dexterous.
The wifdom of all thefe latter times, in princes

8.

The particle out is added often with-

out any other nfe than that it adds fome
force or emphafis to the verb.
While Ihe proudly march'd about.
Greater conquelh 1.0 find out.
Cowley.
She beat out Sufan by the by.
It is agieeabic to compare the face of a great rtan
with the character; and to try if we an find out in
his looks and leaiurcs cither tlie haughiy, cruel, or

Addifon.

merciful temper.

rather fine deliveries, and (hiltiogs of
and mifchiefs, than folid and grounded
Bacon,
couifes to keep them aloof.
9. Fraudulent; fly; knaviflily fubtle.
affairs,

\.>)

Ad.iijon'x S^efJjtor.

To IfiND, is a word of very licentious
and capticioiis ufe, not eafily limited or
explained; its firft idea is the confequetice
cffiarch; the fecond, equally frequent, is

is

dangers

Through hisfine handling, and his cleanly play.

He all thofe royal (igns had ftol'naway.- Hui. Tuli.
10. Elegant; beautiful in thought oc language.

_

He was afraid of being infultcd with Greek ; for
find him out a
vihich reafon he delired a friend
clergyman rather ol plain fenfe than much learning.

mere occurjioii.

Bac'.n.

wit.

6. Clear;

gitate.

25.

^w

when the eye is placed in thcgrolVer

medium and the objeft in the finer.
Refined ; fubtilely excogitated.

To obtain the know-

ledge of.

24. To

the

Whether the fcheme has not be*n purfued fo far

26.
;

4.

To difcover fomething

and it is the bufuiefs of experimental phiNe-u'ton.
lofophy to find ihem out:
What hinders then, but that you find her out.
force?
Addifon'
s Cato
And hurry her away by manly

23.

eye ftandeth in the finer

but contraruvife,

the

VEfirange.
To unriddle; to folve.

Can'ft
Can'fl thou by fearching ^a</ oar God?
ihoafind out the Almighty unto perfedion ? Jib, ii.
There are agents in nature able to make the

.Someihin2 to blame, and lomething to commend.

1

d'ye find yourfelff

particles of bodies ftick together by very

The fox that firil this caufe of grief did find,

10.

When the

as,

and the objed in the grolTer, things ihew greater

The finding out of parables is a wearifomc labour
Ecclif. xiii. 26.
of the mind.

'Can firtl thus plain bis cafe with words unkind.

!

how

traiSions,

To difcover by ftudy, or attention.

hy maid

fir,

Luke.

Two vefl'els of_;f«rr copper, precious as gold. Ezra,
Subtile; thin; tenuous:
fpirits evaporate.

3.

hidden.

But in the fruitful earth ; there iird rfceiv'd
His beam:, unadlive elfe, their vigourjSW. Milton.

'I

Milion.

_

Tlie fun that barren fhiiies,
Whofe virtue on itfelf works no eSeft,

J.

Spenler.

He was arrayed in purple and j5>rf linen.
Re.'ined; pure; free from drofs.

19.

22.

The torrid zone is now /o«B</ habitable.
;

Not any fkiU'd in loops of fingering fine.

2.

To approve: as, to find «W/.

from Jsnitui, completed,

With this fo curious net-work might compare.

!

So airj and fo vain

To come to

my fong,

perhaps

Not coarfe.

1.

;

Co-wUy.
In woods and forefts thou vn found.
The bad muftmifs, the good unibught ^iWfind.
fofe.

funiut.

Latin.]

in money and in niicluah.
A war with Spain is like to be lucrative, if we go
<ii\\\ find
roundly on at firft; the war in continuance
'
Bacon.
itfelf.
Still govern thou

the bam with plump and firm

FINE. adj. \]inne, French; fijn, Dutch and
Erfe ;

To fupply; to furnilh: as he {iai& me

it ftores

grain.

regard to eafe or pain, health, or ficknefs.

Sul'picioii wiih her eyes behind. Dodjlcy's Mifcell.

6.

means that

Shaltefp.

Urania, ajid ht audience jfW, though few.

to fall upon.

Of thy chang'8 f^ith complain
And his foituncs_/fW to be

A cold May and a windy,

His peers, upon this evidence,

18. [Inlaw.]

There watchfi! at the gate thzifiiid

5.

the proverb,

Makes the barn fat and findy ;

direct ; and if they did not, convent, imprifon, and
Bacon.
fine them.

Aiillon,

PermifGve, and accepuncs faun J.
Our voluntary fcrvicc he requires.
Not our neceflitated ; fuch with him
Finds no acceptance, nor z-iafind.

month of

Shak.fpeare.

Yi'nuY.adJ. [5epnbiT, Saxon.] FJurop;
weighty; firm; folid. Not ufed. Thus

They would enforce them to find as they would

17.

that follows our places, flops the

iWfindfaulK.

To determine by judicial verdift.

HiW found him guilty of high treafon.

A

cchfurer; a caviller.
liberty

Cotvley.

their bufinefs and their glory _/?«./.

15. To fettle; to fix any thing in one's
own opinion.
Some men
The marks of old and catholick would find.
16.

Crajhavs.

We are the makers of manners, Rate; and the

A clear confcience and heroick mind.
ills

owe

Findfa'ult. ». /. \fini and _/««//.]

To meet.

14.

'tis I tliat

The winged wand'rer.

Co^vUy.

t'itidirg at brt uo palTage out,
It

O yes if any happy eye
This roving wanton fhall defcry.
!

Milltn.

/iWpaftime, and bear rule.

And belli itfelf againft the cage,

2.

Some lewd fqueaking cryer.

May fall ihefinder's confcience, if they meet. Donne.

Or all enjoying,/ what contentmentyf«</?
He did the utmod bounds of knowlcdgeyfTi/,

-

We

will bring the device to the bar, and criyvn
thee for a finder of madmen. Shak. Twelfth Nigil.
that picks up any thing lolt.
2.

One

to attain.

'I'hey alfo know.

Milton.

To obtain by fearching or feeking.

1.

;

Fi'NntR. v. f. [from /«</.]
1. One that meets or falls upon any thing.

They are glad when they an find the grave. Joi. iii.

In folitude

[pnban, Saxon; vinden,

a,

and fo fhamc him out «(

it.

fmall bird

To Find. f.
Dutch.]

F I N

F I N

F I N

To call the trumpet by the name of the metal was
Dryilin.

fine.

_

Applied to perfon,
with dignity.

11.

it

means beautifu-1

12. Accoinplilhed; elegant of manners.

He was not only the fimfi «ntleman of his time,
but one of the_/f>jf/? fcholars. Felton on the Ctafficks,
13.

Showy; fplendid.
It

is

wnh a fine genius as with ^fine fafhion ; all
tho(i>

FIN

F I N

F r N

who are not able to follow Ts Five. T. ». To pay a fine.
it.
Pope.
Wha- poet c\crfin'd tor ihcriff? or who
The fatirical part of mankind will needs believe,
By rhymes or verle did ever lord mayor grow ?
that it is act impoflibU o be very Jine and very
OUbam.
fiUhy.
Sviift.
To Fi N E D R A w. "u, /7. \_Jtne and draiv. ] To
14. [Ironically.] Something that will fervc
fow up a rent with fo much nicety that it
the purpofe ; focnething worth conis not perceived.
temptuous notice.
tfcofe jre dlfyleafed at it

That fame knave, Ford, her hulband, hath the
J^^ffi mad devil of jealoufy in him, maftcr Brook,
that ever governed frenzy.
Sbakeff.

They taught us, indeed, to doath, to dwell in
houfes,

To feaft, to fleep on down, to be profufe
A/Bf exchange for liberty.
Phiiifi's Brltm.
FlN£. n./. [ffin, Cimbr.]
:

1.

Arachne by his means was vancjuilhed.
Yi'ne.i.\.aJ-v. [homfitie.]

attempt us again.
Bclides ^finet fet upon plays,

4.

5.

I

AdAifon.

[Ironically.]

fucfi

Fi'.N-ENESs. n./.
I.

Vfl p I NB. T. a. [from/w, the adjeftive.]

To refine;

1.

i.

To

embellifti ; to decorate.
in ufe.

Now not

Hugh Capet, alfo, who ufurp'd the crown.

Convey'd hinifelf ai h^ir to th' Udy

To make Icfs coarfe.

Lingare. Sbak.

It/«Mlhegraf«, but makes it fliort, though

To make tranfparent.-

4.

It is g<,od

"
r

5.

i-

alf ,

thick,

Moriim.

to omit the (having,
wine- M^nimer-i Hujtamhy

[hroiTithefubllantive.]

z.

To'punilh with

pecuniary penalty.
To/,,, men one third of their
fortune, without
anjr crime commitud, feemt very
hard.
Locke.

rhehand; themflruinent of work; ma-

3.

nufafture;

p^;J
:

1.

<»'".

Shakefp.

freedom from drofs or bafe mix-

,
2.

3.

man.
Crew's Co/mol. Sac.
unfeafonably or thievilhly
-

.

,

.

To touch an inftruinent of mufick.

i,ou:h

She hath broke the lute ;I did

Xbakfp. Troilu, and Crefflda
1 am doubtful whether men have fufficienily
tz-

metals ; as whether iron, brafs, and
tin be
refined to the height: but when they
ctmie to fuch
ifinenrf,
ferveth the ordinary ufe, they
try no

B„con;NaturMHifi,ry
'"••jf'I he ancients were careful to
coin their money in
due weight mifinemfs, only in times of
exigence
they have dimimlhed both the weight

[from /«<-.] Show ; fplendour of appearance ; gaity of colours.
»./.

Drtls up your houfes and your images.

And put on all the utfifinery.

Southern.
The t^pacitiM of i lady arc fometimei ap t to fall

but tell

her Ihe miflook her frets,
A^iid bow'd her iiai.d to ItatU
hcrfingering.

In fortune's love.

To confecraie this day a Icrtival.

,

I

throne.

indeed, nought clfe
But the protraftive tryals of great
Jove,
To (ind perfilUve conflancy in men;
Th^ finenefs of which metal is not found

Fi'nery

_o ^touch

His ambition would needs fingering
b,
the fceptre,
and hoillmg him into his lather's

Our works are,

u

to toy with.

get you gone, and let the
papers lie •

pleafed wTh
the meer fight inAfi„ger!,rg of
money, as with ih»
thoughts ol his being conlidered as
a wealthy

Subtility; artfulnefs; ingenuity,
Thofe with iht finenefs o( their fouls,

By reafon guide his execution.

;

ffaller

You would b?fi«gcri„g them to anger me.
ihaierp.
One th.it IS covetous is not fo highly

Decay of Piety.

.

To touch lightly
Go,

:

3.

art.

Fool, that torgets hei Oubborn look.
This foltnefs from Ihy finger took.

Show; fplendour; gaiety of appearance. To ti NGER. ^^ a. [from the noun.]

The finenej; of cloaths deftroys the eafe
it
often helps men to pain, but can never rid
them of
any the body may langilh under the moft fplendid

Dryd

One of thefe bows with 3 littW arrow did
pierce
through a piece of Heel three>^«-i thick.
llViins.

her a very diltinguiftiinK

indfincntfs,
Arhnthnot 'jtt Coins.

(or fuel, not

''^^\''"'"S °f

genius, confpire to give
charafter.

Bitll.

the breadth

;

of a finger.
Go now, go truft the wind's uncertain breath

fpi-

Temple.

A fm.ill meafure of extenfion

Remov'd four fi'ngers from approaching death
Or feven at moll, when thickeft is the board

The foftnefs of her fei, and the finenefs of her

fined

To //If hij title with fome (hews of tr»!h,
3.

till

z.

fmoothiiefs at this time, fo it had more compafs,

Montaigne's days.

Keilagainft BuLet,

/^ "b "P""' *"'' knit for a livelihood,
,.lT
Yxxfinger ends
were fore. Ariuthnofsjjhn

tures.
for

There is a vein for the filvcr, and a place for gold,
where iht^ fine it.
Job, xxviii.
a.

ticular note.

Every thing was full of a c\io\Qtfinenef,,
that,
waited any thing in majefty, it fupplicd with
increafe in pleafure ; and if at the firft it
(Iruck not
admiration, it ravilhed with delight.
Hidney.
As the French language has more finene/t and

4. Purity;

to purify.

The fining pot it lor filvet, and the furnace

A

:

[from/«.]

Hudiira,.

is divided into four
fingers bending
lorward, and one oppofite to them
bending backwards, and of greater llrength
than any of them
fingly, which we call the
thumb, to jom with
hem feverally or united ; whereby it
is fitted t.
lay hold of objcdls of any (izc
or qiLintity.
Ray.
hand of a vail extenfion, and a
prodigious
number of fingers playing upon all the
organ pipe.
of the world, and making every
one found a par-

a

Elegance; beauty; delicacy.

rit and force in

had ne'er another tub.

The hand

if it

Shahjp.

In fine, he wears no limbs about him found.
With fores and fickneffes beleaguer'd round. Dryden.
In fine, let there be a perfeft relation bctwiit
the parts and the whole, that they may he entirely
of a piece.
Drydm.

Becaufe h

Then I -tm finely caught in my own fnare. Dryden.

Hooker,

The bleflings of fortune are the loweft: the next
are the bodily advantages of ftrengih and health;
but the fuperlative bleflings, in
fine., are thofe of
the mind,
L'EJlrange.

For aught that ever 1 could read.

To whine, put>^„- i' ,h' eye, and fob,

She nam'd jiot rae ; that may be Torrifmond,

Still the fine'a the crown
Whate'cr the courfe, the end is the renown. Shak.
Your danghter, ere (he fecms a; won,
DeGres this ring ; appoints him an encounter;
In fine, delivers me to fill the time,

Herfelf moft chaftely abfent,

•

:

Whom (he has thrice in private feen this day

;

con(ift of
toeach>»-,;..0„;«t.y.
' ^
J
~-^

'

Boyle,

in

caxon; from

By each at once her choppv/»g«- hying
^
Upon her (kinny lips.
ShSkJpeare's Mad,
Oicgenes, who is never faid,

Souih.

For him (he loves

[pngen,

Youfeem to uiiderlhnd me,

Ihould

it

a Ihort time.

but adverbially, /«y?«.

depending of her.
Sidniy.
Hij relolution, in fine, is, that in the church a
number •f things arc ftnaiy obferved, whereof no
law of fcripture makcth mention one way or other.

j;

Jaagen, to hold.]
I. TJie flexible
member of the hand by
which men catch and hold.
The /«5en and thumb in each hand

Peacbam.

for

Huyu'urd.

One who purifies

from the (ilver, ard Vhcre

drofs

fifteen bones, there being three

;

To conclude; to
to tell all at once
In fine, whatfoever he was, he was nothing but
what it pleafed Zelmane, the powen of his fpirit

FINGLR. „

Let laws be made to obey, and not to be obeyed,
and you will find that kingdom finely goveined in

.'

[From/»//, Latin; yia, enfin, French.]
The end conclufion. It is Teldom ufed

fum up all

the

aucan't Nev> /itlantis.
fubtilly ; not grofsly.

Wretchedly;

\om^ Jhrjfe.

NER. » / [irom/w.]
Take away

manner as to defervecontemptnous notice.

Eafe, health, and life for this ihey rouft relign,
Unfure the tenure, but how vaft the_/f«
Pope.

4.

In fmall parts ;

is

metals.

Notcoarfely; not meanly ; gaily.
He was alone, favc that he had two peifons of

Saltpetre was but grofsly beaten;
not be finely powdered.

How vain that fecond life in other breath,
Th' ellate which wits inheritafter death

cale It were not upon

honour, on either hand one, finely attired in white

to their fimplicity.

TZ

an unnecefTary word which
:
creeping into the language.

!• I

point.
Get you black lead (harpen'd finely.

/

Artifice;

A circumltance not much to be ftood upon, in

Keenly ; (harply ; with a thin edge or

3.

and to
families in fome fu>:h figure
and
as a reafbnable ChrilHan life has

their

of>„_y,

nooccalum lor.

Spenfer,

a great part of the work as been cracked.
.

Shakeff.
games, balls, and

have many cuftcms which contribute
Addljov.

feafting, they

degree

'\

:

Ev'n this ill night your breathing {hall expire,
Shak. K. John.

Pajjing the fine of rated treachery.

3. Forfeit; money paid for anj exemption
or liberty.
The fpirit of wantonnefs is fure feared out of
him: if the devil have him not in fee-fimple, with
Jine and recovery, he will never, in the way of wade,

They want to grow rich in their trades,

tagem

The walls are painted, and reprefent the labours
of Hercules many of them look vtrjfinely, though

Penalty.

fofe-

S^vii'f.

.

FINESSE. „./. [French.]

more than juftly.
Plutarch fays itry finely, that a man limuld not
allow himfelf to hate even his enemies j becaufe if
you indulge tliis palTion ori fome occafions, it will
rife of iifelf in others.
Addif(,n,

of an Irilliman was not puniflied
by our law as manflaughter, which is felony and
capital ; but by a JitK or pecuniary punilhment,
called an ericke.
Davtes on Ireland,

,

maintain

Beautifully ; elegantly ;

A mulcl; a pecuniary punifhment.

and finery

r
Lion tchufc
your place of (ludy by tht finery of
the profpeds, or the moll
various (ixnes o( fci;;fible

The mn&finefinger'd workman on the ground,

The killing

2.

T^

Fineura'wer. »./. [^[romf/ieifraiv.] One

whofe bufinefs is to fow up rents.
Finefi'ngered ndj. SJiue and finger,
Nice; artful; exquifue.

in cultivating cleanlineft

(Jiort

4.

Sink,

fo perform any work exquifitcly with
the fingers.
Not any fkili'd in loop, o! fingering fine.

With this fo curious neuwork mijht compare.

FiNCER-PERN. »./. [finger
tium, Latin.]

A plant.

mAfirn;ciJf]e.

FlNGER-STONE. n.f. {fixger T^ni. fio„e ; UL^.mles. Latin.]

row.

A Foilil refc-mbfinij" an aV-'

Fl':«Gt.EFANGLF.. ».
trifle:

/ {^lomfaugU,] A

a hurleftjue wonl.

We agiee in nothing but r> wrangle.
About the &\i\m\^ fingt,fa-,glc.

5^2

HndihrnK

Fi'NtcAi.,

F I N

thtr; infinitude, the unboundednefs of lhtScitf;ntt
Chrynt.
of aiSeciians, or properties.

Fi'wiCAt. adj. [from/i/<'.] Nice; foppifli;
pretending to Aiperfluous elega«c«.

Fj'nless. adj. [from/«.] Wanting fins.
He angers me
With telling ol the moldwarp and the ant.
Hhak. Henry IV.
of
And
a dragon and tfnUft filli.
Formed in
Fi'ni.ike. rt(/^'. [///and ///?.]
imitation of fins.

A whorelon, gUllglJiing, fuperferviccablei/i/Va/
Sbakrjf. K. Liar.
the
I cannot hear ^finical fop romancing, how
kingtook himafideat fuch a time; what the ijueen
VEJlrangr.
faid to him at another.

jogue.

Fi'nically. adv. [from Jinical.'\

FrNiCALNESS. »./. [from//iif<j/.]

fcp-

In flijpping fuch as tr\i3, the Irilh kem
And untaught Indian, on the lUeam did glide
Ere Iharp-keel'd boats to ftem the flood did learn,

Super-

Or/Vr/Ziir oars did fpread from either fide. Dryden.

fluous nicety; foppery.

To Fl'NiSH. T.

a. {finh,

French; /"'W

Having broad
[from//?.]
edges fpread out on eiflier fide
They plough up the turf » ith a htoii finned plough.

Pi'nned.

Latin.]
To bring to the end purpofcd; to com-

1.

Fi'nnv. adj. [from/>/.] Furnifhed with
fins ; formed for the element of water.

a Car. viii. 6.

High o'er the main in wat'ry pomp he rides.
His azure car and^wff^ courfers guides ;
Drydtn's Virgil.
Proteus his name.
New herdi of beafls he fends the plaints to ftiare

A poet ufcs epifodes; but epKbdfs, falccn fepa-

New colonics of birds to people uir;
And to their o«y beds the//.<ty ti(h repair. Dryden.

the fame grace.

To make perfeft.
Brocmr <m tit Odygiy.

rately, /"'j* nothing.

To petfeft

3.

;

While black with ftorms the" rutHed ocean rolls.

to polilh to the excelkiicy

And from the liflier's art defends het/nxy (hoals.

intended.
Though here you all pcrfefticn (hould not find,

Biuckmore,

With hairy fpringes we the birds betray

•Vet it it all th' Eternal Will defigB'd
It is tfimjh'd work, and perfcS in its kind.
Blackmcre.

would make what bears yotir name as jimjhed
work ought to be; that is, manfinijbed
i'of.
tlian the feO.
I

to put an end to.
4. To end
Fi^NiSHER. »./. [from/»i/^.]
;.

Such creatures as are whole footed, or fintoed, viz.
fome birds or quadrupej;, are naturally direfted to
go into the water and fwim there. Kay on the Cree.
fpecics of fennel.
Fi'nochio. n.J.

FiPPLE.

Oft does them by the weakell miailtcr.

Shakeff,

This was the condition of ihofc times; the world
and Athanafius againd it : half
an hundred of years fpcnt in doubtful trials which
of the two, in the end, would prevail; tl-.c tide
which had all, or elfe that part which had no friend
but (j'od and deatit, the one a defender of his innocencv, the other a^f/Acr of all his troubles. Hmicr.
One that completes or perfetls.
The author mifriijl-'rr of our faith. Htlirnvi.

3.

O prophet of glad tidings finijhct
I

MUldn'i Parad'ifr h"Jl.

Limited

[finitus, Latin.]

;

terminated.

Servius conceives no more thereby than a fxitr
Bri/ztm'sVulgfir Krrouii.
sumber lor iNdetinite.

Finite of any magnitude holds not any proportion
Loikt..

to infinite.

Th*it fuppofed infinite duration will, by the very
fippofition, be Hmiled ai tvvo eitremes, though ne,vrr I'o i«noie afundcr, and confequeotly mxl^ needs
Benlly.
btfnilf.

a gentle breath, the concave of the pipe, were it not

much more than
Baan.
the finiple concave, would yield no found.

for ihefpfle that (ttaineth the air,

Fir, »./. [^rrWeHh; cun)), Saxon ;j^r,
The tree of which deal-boards
Danifh.]
are made.
It is ever green :

FIRE.

2.

to a. certain- degree.
certain limitR
Thiry *f<*crcauirfs frill, and that icistbem at an
iufinite dilkuice tioni tioj ; whereas all their excelbneici t*n wake the«but_/f»iV«/c ditlant from i^s.

Where two raging /kx meet together.
They do confumc the thing that feeds their fury.

». /.

A

Though fafe thouthink'll thy treafure lies,
Conceal'd in cheits from human eyes,
Afirr may come, and ^t may be

[fTom/nitf.] Limita-

tion ; c»nfir.emesir wiihia certain bouadafie:.
1 ouglil now to unbay the rurrtnt of my pnlTion,
and Icvc without other boundary than what is ftt
Ncrrii.
ty iht f.niic"'/' "f my natural powers.

t'l'ieiT v l>r. n, /.

[frtim _fim/e.]

Limitn-

tjon;. confinement within certain b«undalies..

This is hardiv an authorifcd word.

iiV»;Vi(A,' applied

to

naijra'

or created

thing!,,

imports ih^ proportions .>f tlir fevcral dejitee<^ of af.
lu one anoiciiious, or jio^wues of thcfe thing*

Any

Bury'd, ray friend, a> far l»m thee.
4..

Sbakeffeare.

8.

Ardour of temper; violence of paflion.
He had fire in hu temper, and a German bluntnefs; and, upon provocations, might ftrain a phrafe.

Allerbury.

9. Livelinefs of imagination; vigour of
fancy; intelleftual aiftivity; force of expreffion; fpirit of fentiment.
Nor can the fnow that age does (lied

Upon thy rev'rcnd head.
Quench or allay the noble_/frf within,
Cov.1ey.
But all that youth can be thou art.
They have no notion of life 3nifire in fancy and
in words, and any thing that is Jult in grammar and
in mcafure is good oratory and poetry to them./>/fwr.
He brings, Co make us from our ground retire.
The reafonci 's weapons and the fOet'ifire.Blackmtrr.
Exadt Racine, and Comeillc's noble ^rr.
Taught us that Fran cehadfomclhingtoadmiie./'o^e.
The bold Longinus all the nine infpire.
And warm the cilick with a poet's_^rf.
Pofe.
Oh may Ibme fpark of your celeftial^^rr.
The laft, the meaneft of your fons infpire, Pofe.
10. The paflion of love.
Love various hearts does varioufly infjpite>
It ftirs in gentle bofoms gentle_^re.
Like that of incenfe on the altar laid;
But raging flames tempeftuous fouls invade
Afire which every windy palTion blows.
With pride it mounts, and with revenge itglowi.
DrjdtM.

The fire of love in youthful blood,
Like what is kindled in brulh-woud,
But for a moment burns.

Pope,

And time's fwift wingthall fan the^r*. Moore** Fab*
or impofthumation: as, St.

11. Eruption

Anthony's^/f;-.-.

12. fojet

Fire

ox, or fit on

To

Fire.

kindle ; to inflame.
Hermofilla coun-^eoufly fet upon the horfemen,
zni Jit fire alfo xpon the ftables where the Turks
KntUet,.

hortes Itood.

He thaty^r a ^te ea a plane-trtc to fpile his
neighbour, and the plane tntfirtfire on his i«ighbour's houfe, is bound to pay all the lofs, becaufe
layUr,
it did all arife from his own ill intention.

13.

To

To yi/ a Fire.
inflame.
So iuflam'd by my dcfirc.
Carfx,

It miyftt her heart a-fire.

Arms
Firearms, h. /. [fire and arau.l
which owe their effic.icy to fire; guhs.
Ammunition to fupply tlicit iKwfireartns. Clarend.
Belore the ufc of firearms there was vnftnitly more
fcope for petfonal valour than in the modern battles.
Pope.

Fi-'reball

[y&y and

»../.

Wi]

Grenadoj

ball fillfd with combuflibles, andburfliflg

where it is thrown.
ludge of ihofc infolent boafts of confcieace, Avhich,
like fomany^rr^.ij!/f, or mouth granadoc«, are thrown
at our church.

S(.t4th.

The fame great man hath fworo to make us fuallew his coin mfirebalis.

S^^ift.

Fi'rebru.sh. ti. /. [firf xn<Mrrffi>.] The
brufh which hangs by the fire to fweep the
hearth.

When you arc onlered to ftir up the fire, clean
away the alhes from betwixt the bars with the fir*i» ujh.

Stars hid.e yourfiret!

Let noc-niglitfee my black and deep defire*. Siaki/i.

Tt»r:ure by burning.
Bid Shadrach'szeal my glowing breaft infpire>
Frier.
To-weary lopturcs, and rejoice xnfire^
6. The punifhrnc-nt of tile damned.
Who among us ihail dwell with the devourmg
5.

Who aniwig us Ihali J»t:ll with cverlalting

buiniu(i?;

SbadutU.

The god of love retires

Dim are his torches, and extin£t his_^rM.
New charms (hall t^ill iucreafe dciire.

Gramille..

Flajne; lig&t; luftre.

fires'

thing provoking ; any thing th»t

inflames the paflions.
What_/rrf is inmyears f Can this be true ?
Stand 1 condemn 'd for pride and fcom fo much ?

^hakejpejr-e.

So ronlraries on .^Etna's lop eonijiire ;
Here hoary frofts, and by litem breaks aMfire.Cc^'Uy.
conflagration of towns or countries,
}.
There is another libciality to the citizens, who h.id
fuffeced damage by a ^vcAifire.
Ar-huthnot on Coim.

Sti/i/igjirrt.

Jft'sMTEKESs.

Any thing burning.
A little ,f re* is quickly trodden cut^
lM>ich, being luHired, rivers cannot quench. Shak.

and_#)nV<-i/» as thttr
B'i'tva'i yuigtii F.'>i,uri.

;

German.]

The force o^ fire afccnded firl> on high,
Atid look its dwelling in the vaulted Iky ;
Then airfucceeds, in lightne& next to fire. Dryden.

l^'/i« ridiculeus liOio rcafon,

Within

»./, pyp, Saxon ; fnar,

The igtieous element.

1,

bounds ; un»imiie<l.

adv^ \ixom Jinitt.']

the leaves are lingle, and for the

moft part produced on every lije of the branches:
the male flower?, or catkins, are placed at remote
The feeds
diflances from the fruit on the fame tree.
are propagated on cones, which arefquamofe.iV////cr.
He covered the floor of the houle with planks of
I Xingt.
Jir.
Fofe.
The fpiringjfr and llaiely boj.

Without

TiNiTFLiss. fidj. {from fxiitf.']

Fi'Nnr.LT

A

You mud know, that in recorders, which go with

againit Aihanaiius,

if.jrf,.

[from fibula, Latin.]

ftopper.

One that puts an end; ender.

bounded;

n. /.

7.

A

A

He that of greateft works 'isfnijher.

Ot uimolthopef

Pope.

Fi'ttroto. adj. [_fi/iindtoe.] Palmipedous
having a membrane between the toes.

plant.

I. Performer; accomplifher.

Fl'NlTE. adj.

;

Slightlincsof hair furprize thc_^//^prey.

ti roy laft

a.

adj.

Mortimer.

plete.
For which of you, intending to build » tovirr,
iitteth not down finl and counteth the coft, whether
Lukt, »iv. 28.
he have fufficirnt lafnijhi:
As he had begun, fo he would alfo j!r'«//2 in you

a.

FIR

F I R

//ii. xiiiii.

Siuift..

Fi'redrake.

7i.fi

fiery ferpent:

I

[fire

and draie.]

A

fuppofe the prefter.

By the hilhiig of the fnake.

The rullling of thtfireJraktf
I

charge thee thou ijiis phice forfukr,.

Nor of queen Mab be pratling. Oraytoit^s i^ymplid.
Fi'renkw. adj. [fire and nc^M.\ New from
llic

forge;

new fioiB. the melting-houfc.
Arroado

,

-F I R

cuftom, in another fuit^^rcKv, with

in Scotland for the nation to take arms
the ends thereof burnt black, and in fome
parts fmeared with blood.

It is carried

Addifon.

from one place to another.

Upon refufa!

Fi'rhpan. n. f. [fire and/aa.]

Veffel of

metal to carr)' fire.
Hh^rrfam, and jll the veffels thereof, thou Ihali
mskeof brafs.
Ex. xxvii. 3.
Pour of it upon i Jirrfan well heated, as ihey do
rofe-water and vinegar.
Bacorr'i Natural H!Jlary.
Fl'jiER. tt.f. [from_/frir.]
An incendiary.
Others burned Mouflel, and the reft marched as
aguardfordefenceof the(ejtfrf>».
Carctv.
n.

/.

A token FIRM. tuij. [fir/nut.], Latin.]

Fi'ricrosj. n. /. [firv and crofi.]

filver buttons

t« it.

Fi'reside.

F I R

F I R

Armaio it i moft iUuftrious weighl
A awn oifrtnru/ words, fafhion's own knight. Sbai.
Some eicellent jeftj,yJi«m/ from ihe mint. Sbak.
Upon the wedding-day I ^ ut myfelf, according to

The

[Jin and /<*.]

By f^firtfiit, but in the cooler Ihade.

ftick or brand.
Children when they play with firtJUcU, move
• nd whirle them round fo laft, that the motion wil!
co»en their eyes, and reptefent an intire circle of fire
to them.
DigtyutBtdUi.

Fi'rework, tt. /. [fire and 'work.] Shows
of fire; pyrotechnical performances.
The king would have me prefent the princefi with
fome delightful oilcoution, or pageant, or antick, or
frrwork.
Sbatc/ftait.
We reprefent alfo ordance, and new mixtures
of gunpowder, wildfires burning in water, aiid unquenchable ; and alli>_^rfii.«rir of all variety. Bamn.
The ancients were imperfe^ in the dodJrine of
meteora, by iheir ignorance of gunpowder and yfrr.
workt.
Binun.

lajlrrworh give him leave to rent hisfjiite (
Thole are the only ferpenD he can write.
DrjJtn.
Our companion propofed a I'ubjeil for ijimverk-,
which he thought would be very amufing. AJiUfitt.
TheirJirruK/tti are made iJp in piper.
Ta:ier.
yi Fi»E. 'V. a. [from the noun.]
1. To fet on fire ; to kindle.
They ipoiled many pans of the city, lod JlreJ the

Dryden.
in themand are by their peculiar fhapes capable of
the greatcft contafts, is the moft Jirm
that
; and
which has parts very fmall, and capable of the leafV
contafl, will be moft loft.
Woodiuard.
2. Conftant ; fteady ; refolute
fixed ; un;
fliaken.
\ye hold firm to the works of God, and to the
fcnfe which 13 God's lamp.
Bucan'i Nalmal HiJi.

Vet,

I had laft night the
two of thefeyS'iiwm.

3.

He ibat parts us, fliajl bring a brand from heiv'n
Saifirt us htnte.

Siakif^arr't Khi^ Lear.

by cutting the fpriiUil tackle.

Smil/j

1

fcf

2.

have eafed

my fitherJin-law of xjlrtiranj, Io

my own houfc in a flame.

^"."'',v
ill."'
h« rebels,

.crvmpftcnl p„«rr .,(;r,inli
*"J' »

who fo,i:ht with the pr.ncipl band of

tf..m, and defeaierl thcm^ ind took
Ckamber, xXitiTfiniianJ,

T„hn
Bacut.

alive

to the

agrecnilh (hapelefs kind found
in our cl.iy-pits, out of which the greeo
vitiiolor
copperas is procured.
It has its name of pyriies, or
firtJioKt, from its giving fire on being ftruck againft
a Iteel much more freely than a flint will do
; and
all ihc fparks burn a longer time, and
grow larger
as they fall, the ioHammable matter Ihuck
from off
the ftonc burning itfcif out before the fpark
becomes

Hrrjlonc,

HUfi Math. M,d
if broke

fmall, and laid on cold landt,

mull beufadvaiiuge.

Mortimer's Hiefiandrv,

Fi'rewood. »./. [/rf and vuodJ.] Wood to
burn ; fewel.
Fi'ring. H.J. [ftomfire.] Fewel.
They burn the cjkcs, Jirirg being there fcarce.
Morliwer.

_,
1"

IRK.
;

rv.

a.

[from ferh, Latin.]

To

to beat ; to correift ; to chaltife.
it is

not only foppilTi,

But rile, idolatrous and popiOi,
For one man out of his own (kin
ToJ!rk 4nd whip another's fin.
HnJiirai.
Firkin. ». /. [from peoSen, Saxon, the
t.

AaJ firm our purpofe with their augury.
Dryden,
thou, who freeit me from my doubtful (Utc,
I.ong loft and wilder'd in the maze of fate !

Be prefent (till

oh godoefs, iu our aid
Proceed, and_/frm thofe omens thou haft made! Pope.
;

To fix without wandering..

2.

He on his card and compafsjfim/ his eye.
The mjfters of his long cxpciinicnt. J'ajty 0t'eetT

FJRMA'MENT. «./. [firm.me„ium. Ut.j
The fl;y

the heavens.
;
Even to the heavens their (houtinf^ (HriU
Doth reach, and all iht firmament rf'jih fill. Spenfer.
1

am conftant as the northern ftji,

Ol whofe true, fixf, and refting <ju.itity,
There is no fellow in \.hcfirm.,mrnl.
Shaktffii
The Almigliiy, whufe liicioj;lyphical characters
are the unnumbered liars, fun and moon, written
on thefe large volumes of ihcfirmament.
Thc_/»w««f/// exparilc ofliijuitl, pure,

Raltig/j.

Tranfpareni, elemental air, diHus'd
In circuit to the uttcrmoft convex

Of this great round.
Miti-m't Paradlfe LJl:
The ftceils climb up the firft^il'cent with pain;
And when the xniiWiifirmarneni tlicy gain,
I f

downward from Ike heavens my head Ibow,

fourth part of a vcffcl.]

And fee ihe carlh and ocean hang below,

A veffel containing nine gallons.

Ev-li I am feii'd with horror.
Add^fan's Ovid,
Wliat an immenfurable fpar^ is lUc firmameru,
wherein a great number of.lUrs are fecii wiili our
naked eye, and many more dif>;'jveri.d wiih our

Struit's fervanls gel fud) a haunt about thjt

(hop,
that it will coft us many a frki/i of (troiig beer 10
bring iliem beck again.
Arbuthnoi.

2.

KnolUi.

And Jove hitfina'd it with aiv awful nod. Drydc/r.
The pow'rs, laid he.
To you, and yours and mine, propitious be^

is

ejtinguilhed.

letters with all their lijn4s and

«*'s-,

The molt common fort, which is

ufed in medicine,

to ellablifn ; to fix.

'Tisralify'd above by every god.

tallick earth ,^uc in very different proportions

tions ;

;

lyman, ^rmV^ thofe

compofed of vitriol, fulphur, and an unme-

m iflc*.

;

Of the death of the emperor they advertifed So-

The frr/ione, or pyrites, is a compound melallick

L'f.Jlrange.

one whocaufcs mifchicf.
Troy mutt net be, mt goodly llioa

To fettle; to confirm

1

Fi'restoNE. n.f. [fire TtnAfitme.]

An inccridiary; one who inflames fac-

O ijirrhrand brother, Pans, bums us ttaad
all.
Slakrfp.

To Firm. -v. a, [firmo, Latin,]

Dryden' t Spamjh Ftyar,

feveral

enough

Rcjcifffpfron.

Culinary utenfils and irons often feel the force of
fire; as vmp,jirrjhavilt, prongs, and irons. Br^-ain.
The neighbours are coming out with forks and
firejhaveh, and fpits, and other domeftick weapons.

foffil,

IlllaiJnK.

abundant (lime and mud of the earth, and make
the Lind morefirm.
Ratcigb.
The muddy and limous matter brought down by
the N:lus, fettled by degrees into ijifrinland.
Brorvn*t Vulgar Errour:,
It on firm land
Thaws not, but rather heap and ruin feems
Of ancient pile : all elfe deep fnow and ice. M.-lmir.
Sinking waters, the^^rm land to drain,
Fiird the capacious deep, and t'orm'd th» main.

ffyiman.

thrown-«p in kitchens.

is

to raife us above any thing in ihis wurld.

F\rm to his principles and ttuft.
Nor hones nor fears can blind.
Waljh,
3. Solid; nor giving way ; not fluid.
God caufed the wind to blow to dry up tho

Fi'reshovbl, »./. [fireani/horel.] The
inflrument with which the hot coals are

Befides,

Firebra'nd. »./. [fire and hraitJ.]
1. A piece of wood kindled.

Taller.

[In a gun.]
The receptacle for the
priming powder.

whip

The fainting Dutch remotelyjfrf.
And the fun'd Eugeoe's iron I'roop* retire.

drink a bottle with

ture reward, the ^jwpeifuafion whereof

The man that's refolute and juft,

Fi'reship.//./. [firemifi>if.] A fhipfilled
with combuftible matter to firt the vcflels
of the enemy.
Our men br.tvely quitted thei."lfelves of thtJlrrJUf,,

^
To

To take fire; to be kindled.
2. To he inflamed with paffion.
3. To difcharge any firearms.
1.

to

A pan for holding fire.

I.

7.

if defireof fame,

To drive by fire.

fate

Fi'repan. »./. [fire inA fan.]

Drydrn.
to animate.

and thiri* of pow'r,
A beauteous priucel's with a crown in dow'r,
So/« your miod, io utoi alfcu your right. Dryd.

He ftraight obeys j

And firm believes.
Mlhcn's Paradtfe Lrjt.
The great encouragement is the alTurance of a fu-

Gay.

Shail/'.e bis country with a fecend flame.
;

That body, whofe parts are moft firm

A man of violent paflions.

2,

ClcrveUitd.

felvcs,

Boldly he climbs were thickeft fmoke afcends.

The breaihlefs body, thus bewail'd, they lay.
And fire the aUt.
Oryien.
A fecond Paris, i\g'm% but in name,

To infl.irae the paffions

Love's artillery then checks

A leathern caf^ue his vent'rous head defends,

houfea of ihofe whom they eftecmcd not to be their
friends; but the rage of the fire was at firft hindered, and then appeafed by the fall of a fudden
fliower of rain.
Hay-war J.

2.

Joi. xli. 2}.

two firebrands fet in falTiionof a crofs, and pitched
upon the point of a fpear.
Hayaard.

ing houfes.
Tbcfimnan fweats beneath his crooked arms j

Carmi.

And turns her in bis wicker chair.
Prior.
What art thou aflting of them, after all ? Only
to fit quietly at thy ovin firtfidt.
Ariuihm.
Fi'restick. »./. [firf Mijlick.] A lighted

The flakes of his flelh are joined together : they
zrtJSrm in themfclves and they cannot be moved.

There is nothing to be le(t void in a Jirm build,
ing ; even thecavitiesought to be filled with rubbili.

Prime all yom/re/ocks, faften well the (lake. Gay.

By \\\ifrrfijt he ftarts the hare,

fliaken j

He fent his heralds through all parts of the realm,
and trommanded the jirecrcfi to be carried ; n.imely,

My judgment is, tliat they ought all to bedefpifed, Fi'reman. ff.y; [fire and man.]
1, One who is employed to extinguifli burnand ought to fcrve but for Winter talk by titcjirtBacon.

eafily pierced or

The breaftworks of l\vtjirmrji feit.

Fi'r BLOCK. ». /. [fire ani Icck.l
A foldie/s ^un ; a gun difcharged by ftriking
fteel with flint.

Lore no more is made

not

hard, oppofed to/oft.

to fend it forward, or to rife, the laft
perfon who has it (hoots the other dead.

hearth ; the chimney.

J!<i''

Strong ;

1

A fmsll veffel.
You heard of that wonder of the lightning and
ihuiidcr.

Which made ihe lye fo much ihe louder ;

Now liil Io another, that miiacle's brother.

Which was done wiih ifrki/i of po-.vder. D.-nham.

Dfrbam'l Ajho. Theology.

fil'ffcs !

Firmame'ntai..
Celellial ;

[from firmiimeitt \
of the upper rci^ions.
adj.

An hollow cryftal pyramiJ lie takes,
I n

firmamcnlal waters dipt above.

Drydm.

Fi'rmlv. ad^j. [ixoxajirm.]
1.

Strongly;

«rf «ry ft*

]S«.-»ptin» fill) »nd,ioft««, »lier«
or no cri-atur;S that cafl provide for (hemfelves at
Henily.
witliout fhe ^fljllancc of parents.

Strongly; impenetrably ; immoveably.
Thou Ihalt come of fei cc,

1,

Thou{,h thou .utyfr wZ/VrfaftciiM ihjB a roclt. Mill.
How'Vcry.hard panicles, which touch only in »
few potiiu, can ttick together ia firmly, without
lomcthing wh'ch caufcs them to be attracted towards
oi-.e

another,

i;

NtyHon.

dilTicult to conceive,

2. Steadily; conitantly.
Hirofelf to be the man the fates require
Dryden,
I_^r»i/ji judge, and what I judge define.
The common people of Lucca ixt firmly perFlorentines.
five
beat
tlMt
one
jLucqurfceaD
fuadcd,
Addifon on. Italy

Fi'r M N E ss. n. f. [from firm. ]
1. Hardnefsi compaftnefs ; foliditr.

and /rm«/> of union might be
that both people are »f'tlie fame

Ihyward.

of children.
K\ifirfl-beg<il,

Millan's ParadtfeUJi.
«rspring.onieav'n>'/-iow/
Millcn.
Ihtfirfi.hm has not a fole or peculiar right, by

Some hive fijhed the very jak« for papei;* left
thereby men of wit.
Sv^ft,
Oft, as hefi/h'd her nether realms for wit.
The goddcft favour'd him, and favoui-s vet.
fofe.

ilall, holy light,

any law ot Cod and Nature ( the younger children
having an equal tiilc with him. Locir on Education.
FUST-lRUITS.w./, [jirji TinA friiiti.'\

What the feafon earlieft produceSj^or ma-

tron have been contirmed by moll noble fiifi-fruits,
and his life is going on towards a plentilul haryelt

Prior.

of all accumulated virtues.

The^profits of any thing which are foon-

2.

my mufc.

eft

bilhops, becaufc, having rich bilhopricks, they carried iheir reward i^pon ihemfelves ; yet he did ufe
to raife them by Iteps, that he might not lofe Uie

of the fir/l-fruits, which by that courfe of
Hacon's Henry VII.
gradation was multiplied.
profit

:

order before any other.

The eariieft effeft of any thing.

3.

See, Falher, what7fi7?-/iJr//j on earth are fprung.

Shakefpeare'sM.icli.
Jn the fix hundred and fir/l year, in the /'/
month, thefirfi day of the month, the waters were

From thy implanted grace in man!
Fi'rstli NO. adj. [from/ijl.]
is firft

Milton.

That which

produced or brought forth.

Cm.

All ihejirfiling males that come of thy herd, and
of thy flock, thou Ihilt fanftify unto the Lord thy

The fi'rfi covenant had alfo ordinances of divine

Deut.

dried up from off the earth.

Earlieil in time :

oppofed to laft.
•^'^- '*•

fervice.

' •

God.

Fi'rstling. »./. [from /f/?.

Mi/ton.

Man's firfi difobcdience.

The firft produce or offspring.
A (hepherd next.

1.

Who/-/?, who laft

Miltm.

P.ous'd trom the (lumber.

More meek, came with the firfitings of his flock,

.Arms and the man 1 fing, thr;^*,* who bote

The imiitrfirftlings of my woolly breed.

3. Higheft in dignity.
Tliree prefidents, of whom Daniel wssfirfi. Daniel.
Firft with the dogs, and king among the fquires.
S^tehatoi

•Tis little Will, the fcourge of France,
No godhead, but ihe/iyK of men.

Prior.

Great ; excellent.

The thing thought or done before ano-

2.

ther.

Our play
Leaps o'er the vaunt 7mi fir/irmgs of thefe broils,
i,haktj'p. Treil. andCreJf.
'Ginning i' ih' middle.
The flighty purpofe works o'erlook,
from this moment.
Unlefs the deed go with it
The vcvyfi'fili'ig!. of my heart (hall be
The fiifilings of my hand. Stake/feare's Maetelb,
:

M-jfi'fi fon.
Where will you goi Take good Cominius

Shake/feare'sCoviolanus.
With thee.
First, adv.
1. Before any thing elfe ; earlieft.

Fi'scAL.

Dtyden.

Thy praife, and thine was then the publick voice,

Before any other confuleration.

;

vifeh,

is ufed coUeftively for the

Dutch.]
FiJ/>

race oifijhes.

The bi:afts, \ht fifiits, and the winged fowls.
Are their males fubjcdh. Sbuke/f. Comedy of Err.
And now thejf/J ignoble fates cfcape.
Creech.
Since Venus o» 'd her fafcty to their lliape.
There are fifitei, that have wings, that are not

,

and there are fonie
birds that arc inhabitants of the water, whofe blood

ftrangers to the

airy region |

and rherr flefh is fo like in tjftc,
that the I'crupulous arc allowed them »n firti-dajs.
Locke.
is as cold iififijes ;

3.

2.

AvTiarp point, bended upward aid backward, like
Crexu's Muftrum,

^fifii-hcok.

«. /.

A fmall

[j^^and/«W.]

pool for fifti.
Fijh-fondi are no fmall improvements of watry
Mortimer's Hufi>andry*
bojgy lands.
Fifi^-ponds were made where former forcits grew,
Prior.
>^d hills were levell'4 to extend the view.
Aher the great value the Romans put upon fiihes,
it will

fell

not appear incredible that

his fiJi-potJs for quadragies

C. Hitrius IhoulJ
H. S. 32,291/.

F'isHER.

Ari^uihnot*

One who is

[from 7J<5.]

n. /.

employed in catching fi(h.
In our fight the three were taken up.

By filhermen of Corinth, as we thought
At length another feii'don us.

And would have reilihe fifiier\ of their prey,
Sbakefp.
Jiad not they been very How of fails
We know that town is but with_/^frj fraught.
Where Thefeus govern 'd and where flato taught,
Sandys,
Leil he (hoiild fufpedl it, draw it from him,
Asfifiirrs do the bait, to make him follow it.
Deniam,
Afoldiernow he with his coat appears
Afifiitrnovi, his trembling angle bears.

Pofe,

Fi'sHERBOAT. w. /. [/jier znd l>pat.] A
boat employed in catching fi(h.
Yl'sHEKMAtf, ft./, [fi/jer and man.'] One
whofe employment and livelihood is to

How fearful
And dizxy 'tis to call one's eyes fo low
Thefijbermen that walk upon the beach
Shattff care's King Lear.
Appear like mice.
At length two monfters of unequal ftze,

Ha td by

ffciller.
t he Ihore , zfi/herman efpies.
Dolcales and fins bear price to thisexcefs?
You migluhavc bought ihefifiiermen for kfs. Dryd.

Fi'sHERTowN. n. f. \fijher and tovjn,]
town inhabited by filhermen.
Others of them,

in that

A

time burned that ^cr-

Carew's Survey of Cornwall.

to^vn Moufchole.

.

not be

An animal that inhabits the water.

1.

Fi'sh-hook. ti.f.^fijh^r^&hobk.^ A hoOk
baited, with which filh are caught.

Lime in Dorfetlhire, a \\\.\\e fijherterwn Clarendon.
it

Baeon.

FISH. «. /. rF>F. 5axon

plants ; feFi'fi, metals are more durable than
thirdly, they
Condly, they are more foHd and hard
are whollv fubterraneous ; whereas plants are part
Bacon.
above eaiih, and part under the earth.
It has often ai before it, and means at

the beginning.
Ai firft the filent venom (lid with eafe,
And leii'd her cooler fenfcs by degrees. Dryd. .£n.

t-reafury,

long maintained by the ordinary ^f*/ and receipt.

Dryd.

Firfi recommended Guilcard to my choice.
Hcav'n, fure, has kept thi« fpot of e<rth uncurft.
Prior.
To (hew how all things ivcrc cicuci firfi.

[from f/ats, a
f.
Exchequer; revenue.

ti.

Latin.]
War, as it is entertained by diet, focan

He, not unmindful of his ufual art,
.Firfi in diffembled fire attempts to part^
Tlien roaring beafts and tunning (beams he tries.

,

catch fidi.

Dryden'iVirg.
Shall on his holy altar often bleed.
T\\(firftlings of the flock are doom'd to die. Pofe.

Prior.

'Vlhofirfi ofTend, vtiWfiiS complain.

Milton's Paradi/e Lrfi.

Choicelt and beft.

His courfe to Latium from the Trojan Ihote. DryJ.
1 find, quoth Mat, reproof isvain!

While others/^, with craft for great opinion,
with great truth, catch mere fimplicitv.
Shakeff,

131. ^d.

rained.

Although the king loved to employ and advance

FIRST, adj. [ppp:, Saxon.]
that which is in
1 . The ordinal of one

jz.

Milton.

-

Alter bury.

jL.

.

The blooming hopes of my then very young pa-

This armed Job v/hhfiimiu/' and fortitude.

.2.

.-

.

I

I

Fishpond.

tures of any kind.
A weaty reaper from his tiling^ bfoughf /
FirJI-fruiu, the green ear, ind the yellow rtieaf.

Which for his7f;m«<// does his heat excufe. Rifirom.

third is like the former.

To Fish. v. n.
1. To be employed in catching filhes.
2. To endeavour at any thing by artifice.

To Fish. 1;. a. To fearch wattr tn queft of
filh, or any thing elfe.

;

Thy air,
Thou other gold-bound brow, is like the^^^*.

think we fare coarftly it we abltain from the flelh
Brovjn,
of other aniiqalt.

:

gion, the underftanding cannot be brought to change
them, but by great examination of the truth and
of
firmntfs of the one, and the flaws and weakncfs
South'! Sermons.
theotlier.

—A

we know j ^b4 fore have felt.

mortify ourselves with the diet oi fifij, and

When his fierce thunder drove us to the deep Milt.
Fi«sT.BoRN. », /. \/if:JimA fo*%.]- Eldeft.;
the firil by tlie order of nativrry.
Lart, W«h one midAightftroki, all l\itfirft.btrn

3. Certainty ; foundnefs.
^
In perfons already poffefled with notions of reli-

N,ir can th' Egypiijn patriarch bUm^

»nd I eat no fijb.

Sbakefp.K.Utr,

We

Drydett.

.

"!»./• [from /t,'i and
Fi»sT-BiGoT.
The eldcft
lcg<'t.'\
First-begotten. J

1

refolation.
4. Stcadinefe ; conftancy
That thoulhould'ftmy^'WC/' do"'"
To God, or ihec, bcc.iufe we have a foe
Miltm.
May tempt us, 1 expeaed not to bear.

1 fight when 1 cannot chufe,

'
'

Of Egypt miift He dead.

eafinefs

conjeftured, for
-language.

all aie fools and U^ers/j// cr /a/.

And

way of eminence c>lle4

flelh.

Atonettine or Other.

But'fuPe a general doom on man is paft,

by degrees of greiter confiftency
anifirmnfft, fo as to referable an habitable earth.
Bmtici.
2. Durability ; liability.

reftrial animals, by

fiifi,

^. ¥iKh.\ oHiiJi.

It would become

Both the

7 1^

F I S

F I R

The flcfli of filh oppofed to that of xer-

Fi'sHERY. n.f. SJxoxxi fijher.l
of catching filh.

The bufinefs

We fhall ha\e plenty of mackerel this feafon
fifijcry will not be

difturbed by privateers.

Fi'sHFUL. adj. [from fijh.]
wiih fifh ftored with tilh.

: our
Addifon.

Abounding

;

Thus mean in llate, and calm in iprite,
Carew.

Myfififtl pond is my delight.
It

is

walled

and guarded with the ocean, moft

commodious for traffick to all parts of ihe world, and
watered with plealant,^//;/, and navigable rivers.

Camden's Rem,tins.

[from ffi.]
a cant word.

roFi'sHiFt.
to fifh :

"v.

a.

To turn

Here comes Romeo.

—Without his roc, like a dried, herring
O flelh, flefh, how art thoififtifiid ! Shakefpeare.
Fl'sHINC.

F I S

F I T

Fi'sHiNe. »,/. [frotn ^.]
of taking fifh.

Commodify;

fticks, or dully falling together by the ears
cuffs.

There alfo would be planted a good town, having
both a good haven and a , ,entifuI_/f/4;Vr^,
Spenfer
''
Fi'sHKETTLE. ». /.^ [ji/i
^'"' and httle.j

caldron made long for the fifli to be boiled

fjlicuffs,

without bending.
It is probable that the way of

and meal.'l

Sharp.

Fi'sHMoNCEK.

My abfcnt mates
Popt.

Having the qualities or form of fifh.

n'SSII.E. adj. Ifffili,, Latin.]

Fi's ivLAt.aJj. [fromy^&Za.]

cleft.

Fi'sTiTLOus. aJ/\ [from f/n/a; fijiultux,
French.]
Having the nature of a'tiAula

cryftal

is a pellucid
fijfjt »ont, clear as
of the rock, and without colour
enduring a red heat without lofing its iranfoarency,
aud in a very ftrong heat calcining without Aifion.
I TY .
«r. /.
[from fffiU. ]
lity of admitting to be cloven.

Fi'ssuR E.

A cleft

;

The qua-

FIT.

where a breach

were divided by parallel

were inclofed in the ftone.
I

fffurrt,

Z.

a.

[

Ticm/iii,

froin the noan.]

cleave ; to make a fiflurc.
By a faU or blow the (kult mav be fim"-"/
or
fraflured.

rri

expanded (ho\\'».

I

Denbam

.

^^^

'^"'

To gripe with the fift.

Wn.uckl,ng

helms, fjl;„^ each oiherN th^f.
And wak d half dead with nothing. Uak.

CorhUnu,.

A piftachio nut.

^fifi.^^^-'ff-']
X^Tlk\iwuh
the fift ; blows with thcM.

been fo: merly liijujd.

The Englilh fleet could not be paid and manned,
and filltd out, unlcfs we enc()ur.igi-d trade and na^
vigation.
Addifon', Freeholder.
_
^

5.

L'Eftrange.

To

7o Fit tip.
furnifh ; to make prtrper
for the ufe or reeeption of any.

He his fitted up his farm.
Pope to Sivift.
To Fit. -v. ».. To be proper; to be becoming.
How evil fii, it me to have fuch a ffn; nnd how
much doih tliy kindnefs upbraid my wickcdo-ls.
-

.,

Any violent affeaion of mind or body.

Fitca.

n.f.

•vetch.]

r\''r

I

Htchat.I*; /.
Fitchew./
be.nft,

he

Battle

of.

..

French;

fijfe.

A itinking little

that robs the hen-roofl and warren.

is

;

but

much larger, at leaft as fome pro-

vinces

diltinguifh them, in which the
polecat is termed v^fitchat, and x\\cjitnkittz

knows

ferret a ftoat.

Shake/p. Macieih

'Tis fuch an:.rheryf/c,6(-tf

is

women, and the convnlfions of children
and by the vulgar for the epilepfy.

;

.'

marry, a perfumed one :

Whai do you mean by this haunting of mc i Shakefp.

ufed without an epithet of difcrimination, for the hyflerical diforders of
It

{fjfau,

Dutch.]

Wwwr calls him xht Jlinhing ferret

Diforder; diflemperature.
Ihe>/»o' ih'feafon.

colloquial corruption

Now is the feaion

Addifiin.

He's noble, wife.judicious, and bed

[.A

A fmall kind of wild pea.

Forfowingolyf/cicj, of beans, andof peafon. Tujler.

...
,
An
ambitious man puts it in the power
of evcrv
milicious tongue to throw him into
a fit of meUi..
,./

Sidney..

.

Narfiti It to prolong ihe feaft,
Timclels, indecent, but retire to reft. Pvpe'i Odyjfey.
^

Fairy Queen.

.

Boyte.

.

4. 7i- Fit oar. To furnifh; to equip; tcr
fiipply with necefTaries or decoration.
A play, which if you dare but twice _;?/ out,

For your hulbaod.

^* ^'" ^"'' '''""'• '"E^'h*' in my (lefp,

F.STiN(7T. ;,./.

She (lull be our me(renger to this paultry knight
me thought on liei ; (iK'Wfii it
Sh.ike/p.
much of the llone as was contiguous to ii'ii
marcafite, fi/ieJ the nurcafitc fo doli: as if it had
.\s

You'll all be (lander'd, and be thought devout. DryJ,

The life did flit away out of her neft.
And all hisfenfcs were with deadly// oppreft.

lyrrheui, Uic uii-r-lalhtrof ihe^ft.
Then clench -d a hatchet in his boilSK
Drjdn
V « ] IS r. t: a.
I. To ftrikc with the
fid.

If

To be adapted to; to fuit any thing.

Sti'if,

nto a>yj may cl«fe,

'

:

1 truft

Sometimes 'tis grateful to the rich to try

An fill of pleafure we balanced by an equal degree'
of pam or languor: 'tis like finding
this year, part
oi the next year's revenue.

I

perfon with anv
as, the tailor//^ his cuflomer.
a

A

Siijrp's Surgery.

Rogers

Fully ^uetn.
j

a.

thing

3.

|

Anf tr catjfeth palenefs in fome in others trembbl,n.',f-,rH:.. ,„! K„.i„j rt,,^^_
Baci,„.\

Denh'am^

To accommodate

tru(riTi,>ker_;frrf.y the child with a pair of boddice, (VitV.:neJ on the lame tide. IVifman't Smg::
v,

m the kidneys, in which cafe ij!r of the rtonc

.

And bruife with downifby^r his manly face.

J

Troy I would raife.
2.

In riling fighs and falling tears.
MJ!fon on Italy.
Thus o'er the dying lamp ih' unileady flame
Hanjs quivering on a point, leaps off by>/r,
And (alls again as loth tn quit its hold.
AJJifon
Religion is not the bufmefs of fome
'
fits only and
interval! of our life, to be taken up
at certain days
and hours, but a fyrtem of precepts to be regarded
in
all our conduct

Another time, quoth ihe, become more wife;
Thus Pai, did kifs her hind with little grace. SiJney.
And being down, the villain fore did bent

//; xliv. 13.

Would fate permit

To my defires t might my fortune _/&,

{hom fight. Skinner, every fit

^T^Tu,
Vyjiii my e
fwelling
grief appears,

m

Addi/ow,

jf//«i It wiih planes.

Any fhort return after interrailGon; in-

A

1H>>T. n. f. [pipr, Saxon.j
The hand
clenched with the fingers doubled down,
order to give a blow, or keep hold.
Shcnuick and proud, and who did Pasdefpife,
Up with lier/y?, and rook him on the facej

-.j;."
,"'"'

Hollow like

(hort vicilfitude, and^fr of povrrty.
DryJen
Men tl^it ate habitually wicked may now and
then, by fin and ftarts, fed certain'taotions
of re-

/fiArma^-fSurg^ry.

I'e-

may laugh without

To Fir. V. a. [I'ltten, Flemifh, Junius.]
1. To .accommodate to any thing;
to fuit
one thing to another.
The carpenter niarkeih it out with a line: he

terval.

To

Boyle.

fit to be grave and

hope their poltcrity

I

offence.

ffifema/!', Surgery.

in that part is the cure.

fee

-v.

If Mr forefathers thought

Small rtones and gravel coUcfl and become
very
large

that

It'eodruari' t Nat. Wff.

The giplnfjfffir-fi to receive the rain.

To Fissure,

n. f.

man to know his own abilities and

that he tliinksy;r 10 praife.

rious,

termittent diflemper.

The ftone was diftinguiffied into ftrata or layers
ftrau

It is^fr for a

all

fromT/VV in Flemilh, frequent, Junius.]
I. A paroxyfm or exacerbation of
any in-

has been made.
thofe

See how thou rnuId'H judge o( fit and meet. Milt.
weaknclfcs, and noi think Iiimfclf obliged to imitate

of a difeafe being a ftruggle of nature

». /. [Jiffura, Latin; fiffure, Fr.]

a narrow chafra

ambitious natures, except it be upon necelfity, it is
fit we (peak in what cafes they ate fo.
B.icoir.

How thefe finuous ulcers \>Komr^ ffluhat, \ htve
(hewn you.

Convenient; meet; proper; right.
Since we have faid it were good not to ufe men of

2.

callous or finuous like a fiftula.

Nnvion'i Opiicit.

,

the rule and mcafure of another man's; a ufe which
neither^/ /o/-, nor capable of.
Locket

it is

a pipe.

»-ater or cryftal

„
Fi ss iL

This fuvyfiijlr her intent (he chofe.

to the nofe,

Having the
grain in a certain direftion, fo as to be
Thif

Tht fittejl help juft fortune could afford. Cmvley.
One who delights in wars and human woes. Dryiien.
It is a wrong ufe of my underftanding to make it -

continuance, has not only corroded the
neighbouring foft parts, but alfo affefted
the fubjacent bone.
Sharp's Surgery.

Few eyes have efoncd the piflure of mermaids,
that ij, according to Horace, a montler
with a woipan's head above, tni^Jiyt tttnmity below.
Bnmin

Chron,

I

:

Bait the-harb'd ;l«l, and ixom
\^tfjhy flood

vi'nhfor before the"

He lends him vain Goliah's facred fword,

which obftruAs the natural progrefs of the
tears, and makes them trickle down the
cheek; but this is only the firft and
mildeft ftage of the difeafe
in the next
there is maxter di charged with the tears
from the pu>i3a lachrymalia, and fometimes from an orifice broke through the
(kin between the nofe and angle of the
eye.
The laft and worft degree of it is
when the matter oftlie eye, by its long

The furgeon left the fjim-^.tgcr to determine the
controverfy between him and the pike.
VEKrantc
Fi'sHV. ^^/. [from;5».]
1. Confifting of fi(h.
2. Inhabited by fi(h.

proper:

noun, and to before the verb.

A diforderof the

canals leading from the eye

1 fear to play the ffcmongir; and yet fo large
a
commodity may not pals in fileoce.
Carevi.

Appeafe th' atflia-ve fierce defire of food.

any

;

aJ/. ['vitten, Flemifh, Junius.']

Qualified;

I.

Men of valour, fit to go out for war and battle.

Fistula Lacrymalis.

.

A dealer

n.f. rfromyj^.l
a feller of fi(h.

French.]

fijiule,

IViffman^s Surgery.

imT,\ fjhmtali, they fall into a kind of male green-

3.

called y&r.

Fit.

Thi^.fiflula which is recent is the eafieft of cure :
thofe 01 a long continuance are accompanied with
ulcerations of the gland, and caries in the bone.

;

in fifh;

was anciently ufed for any recommencement after intermiilion. The pans
of a fong, or cantos of a poem were

finuous ulcer.

Diet of

_ fickw'i-

;

Arbulhnot's Hifi. of John Hull.

6. Jt

they have qurte difabied each other.

A fmuous ulcer callous within

abflemioas diet.
Thin drink doth overcool their blood, and making

lifti

'till

Fl'STULA. n.f. [Latin

embalming amongfl

Mufceum

\^fijh

right into 3 fit.

at fjii-

Smtft

the Egyptians wa? by boiling the body in a long
caldron like 3. fijh-ketilt, in fome kind of liquid
balfam.
C-v-k.'j

Fi SHMEAL. n.f.

Mrs. Bull was fo much enraged, that (he fell down-

Morr.
She would feize upon John's commons; for which
they were fure to go to ffticuffs. Arhuth. John Bull.
My invention and judgment are perpetually at

A
„

]

F I T

Waked men belabouring one another vrith fnJ^cd

t

Vhefiubat, ilie lulimari, and the like creatures,,
live upon the (ace and wiihin
the bowels of the eartli»'

„

H'aifun's Angler,

,

Fi'tful.

atlj.

[fit

iadfu/i.]

Varied bjpatoxyfaisj

.

.

T? 1 V

Ti'tly. tiiv. [irovrt fi».\
Properly; juftly

1.

;

A kind of play with a bait.
2. A difeafe of horfe*.

Eten h ma^ filly

To fettle

Brightcft feraph

tell

temple.
hath fixed his eatint; to certain
Rated periods, his (lonuch wiUeiped viftuals at the
Locke.
ufuji hour.

When euftom

To direft without variation.

J,

Do/Tflf.

An animal,

in order to be moveable muft be
and therefore is ^r.'y made of fepante and
fm.»Ufulid parts, replete with proper fluids. Arbuthntt,

Fi'tne-ss. »./. [fromyf/.]

To deprive of volatility.
We pronounce concerning gold, that it \% fixed.
Locke.

jailncfs; rcafon-

ratietnefsj

ablenefs.

5.

In things the Jilneft whereof is not of itfelf apparent, nor eafy to be made fuflticiently manilcll
unto all, yet the judgment of antiquity, concurring
%vith that which is received, may induce them to
Ho'jker*
think it not unlit.
The queen being abfent, 'tis a ncsi(\i\ fitneft
Henry
VIII.
That we adjourn this court. Shahjf.
Wer't m-vjitftefi
To let thefe hands obey my boiling blood.
They're apt enough to diilocate and tear
Thy fle(h and bones,
Skahrffeare^i ^'"S '^*"'.

Convenience ; commodity ; the
being fit.

ftate of

Nor time nor place

Did then cohere, and yet you would make both

:

JThey'v? iride themfel'es, and that tlieir_^r>ir/r now
"Does unmake you.
Sh,tiiff tare's Macbeth.

^yi'TMENT... «. /. [from ^/.]

Something

Not

adapted to a particular purpofe.
ufed.
l^oor befeeniing : 'twas i fitment for

The purpofe I then follow'd.

Sbakeff. Cymieline.

••-Fi'tter. «./. [from//.]
1, The perfon or thing that confers fitnefs
for any thing.
.

Sowing the fandy gravelly land in Devonftiire and
Cornwall with French furec feed, they reckon a great
improver of ijteir land, and i finer of it for com.
Mortimer's Hujhattdiy,

2. [from fet(a,'\tz\\an; fttaeti German.]
,

A

fenfe purely
To pierce ; to transfix.
Latin.
While I'rom the raging fworJ he vainly Hies,
A bow of fteel (hMfix his trembling thighs. Sandys.

To withhold from motion.

6.

L'Eftratige.
foundation that can never deceive us.
He made himfelf their prey,
T' impofe on their belief, and Troy betray;
Fix' J on his aim, ar.d obftinately bent
To die undaunted, or to circumvent. DryderCs^n,
Here hope began to dawn ; refolv'd to try.
She fix' d on this her utmoft remedy.
Death was behind j but hard it was to die. Dryden.
In mod bodies not propagated by feed, it is the
Locke.
colour we muft^x on, and arc mod led by.

2. To reft; to ceafe; to wander.

unall piece : as, to cut mXo fitters. Skinner.
J FiTZ. a./. [Norman, ifomfils, a fon, Fr.]
fon. Otily ufed »n law and genealogy
Fitzas Filzhcrbert, the fon of Herbert

To

Bacon's Natural Hifiory.

FIXATION. It./. [French.]
Stability; firranefs ; fteadincfs.

Your fixation in matters of religion will not be
more neccflary for your foul'ii than your kingdom's

KingCharUi.

peace.

Refidence in a certain place.

2.

A

t^mas, the fon of Thomas Fitxny, the
fon of the king. It is commonly ufed of
;

atij. [pj;:,

forbearance of cxcurfion.

They are fubjedl to errors from a narrownefs of
3i

fixation and conliocmenc of thought to a few
lyatti.

objefls.

Saxon.]

Four and one;

Want of volatility

,\.

half of ten.

;

deftruiflion of vola-

tility.

Aod_/fvf of them were wife, andTft/e werefoolifh.

Upon the compound body three things arc chiefly

Mall.

to be obfcrved; the colour, the fragility or pliantncfs,

No Derfon,
e.-itry on

no incident, but mud be of ufe

the main dcfign :

finders to the hand,

all

to

and the

things clfe arc like fix

|"XV£8. n.f.

Ciiiqucfoil ;

a

Bacon.

more diflncult to make gold of other metals
than to make
lefs ponderous and lei's materiate,
filver of lead or quKklilver, both of which are more

Dryden.

Grafs, n. f.
fpccies of clover.

or fixation, compared with the

It is

ous in nothing, can do her work y/'iOtfioe. DryJen.
Five herds, fire bleating flocks, his paflure fiU'd.

Fi'vELEAVED

volatility

fimple bodies.

when nature, which is fuperflu-

Our Brilifh youth lofe their £gure by that time
Addijon.
they we five and twenty.
^

Want or lofs of volatility^

Fixednefs, or a power to remain in the fire «ncotifumed, is an idea that always accompanies our
Lacke,
complex Idea fignificd by tlie ivord gold.
3. Solidity ; coherence of parts.
Fluid or (olid comprehend all the middle degree*
between extreme fixednefs and coherency, and the
mod rapid iatedine motion of the particles of bodies.
Bcntley.

4. Steadinefs; fettled opinion or refolution.
fixednefs in religion will not give my confcieiiie
Kinv Cbarlti.
leave to confcnt to innovations.

Ctwierence
Fixi'dity. n.f. [horn fixeJ.
word
of parts, oppofed to volatility.
of BojU.
'\

A

Uodiia mingled by the

ponderous than lilver; fo that they need rather a
Bacon.
degree oi fixation than any condcafation.
5.

fire

are differiog as to the

fixidity and volatility, and yet are fo combined by
the tirft operation of the fire, that itfelf dees Icarc*
Boyle.
afterward* feparatc them.

Fi'xiTY. n.f. [fixite, French.] Coherence
of parts, oppofed to volatility.
And are not the fun and fixed flar, great earthf
vehemently hot, whofe heat is confcrvcd by the
greainefs of the bodies, and the mutual adion and
readUon between them, and the light which they
emit, and whofe parts are kept from fuming away,
not only by their jtfx;/v, but alfo by the vad weight
and denfity of the "atmofphcres incumbent upon
Ne-wtui's Of ticks,
them ?

Fi'xTURB. n.f. [itoxafix.
Pofition.

1.

'Vhe fixture of her eye hath motion in't,

As we were raock'd with art. Shakef. IVinter't Tale,
Stable preffure.

2.

The firm fixture of thy foot would give an excellent motion to thy gait.

Redudion from fluidity to firmnefs.
Salt dilTolvcd upon t fixation returns te iu a&^eJ

cubes.

Fi'xEDLY. aifu. [from /Jrf(/.]

iiUr.v.

Sbaieff,

Firmnefs ;

ftable ftate.
Frights, changes, horrours.
Divert and crack, rend and deracinate
The unity and married calm of dates
Quite from thsir^x;«)C Shak. Troilus and Cre^a.

Fizgig, n.f. A kind of dart or harpoon
with which feamen ftrike fifh.
Can'd thou yi\i\\ fizgigs pierce him to the quick.
Or in hislkull thy barbed trident (bck ? Sandys' "fiik.
Fla'bbv. adj. \fia:cidus, Latin.] Soft;
not firm ; eafily ihaking or yielding to
the touch.
I'alenefs, a

weak pulfe, palpitations of the heart,

fiabiy and black flclh, ate fymptoms of weak fibres.
Arbuthnot.
Pulls out the rags contriv'd to-prop

(bul,

illegitimate children.

/-FIVK.

St.nbility ;

Wetfiabby dugs and down they drop.

;

good-

firmnefs.

1.

Raleigh's Hifiory.

Confinement

3.

infinite

\^XOVafixtd.'\

To lijht, created in the lull day, God gave no
proper place ot fixation.

;

,

V. f.

2.

3.

Your kindnefs banidies your fear,
Waller.
Refolv'd to fix for ever here.
lofe volatility, fo as to be malleable.
3.
In the midd of molten lead, when it beginneth to
congeal, make a little dent, and put quickfilver,
wrapped in a piece of linen, in th.it hole, and the
quicklilver <K\\\fix and run no mote, and endure the

A

and

Burtut.

Fl'xEDNESS.

refolution.
If we would be happy, we muft^x upon (bme

1.

omnifclency,

nefi cnlaige the fpirit while xKfixily looks on them.

To fettle the opinion; to determine the

hammer.

Lock;

2. StedfaiUy.

To Fix. f. n.
1.

fixedly e(Ublilh«d by the t«»I and fccret cor..

K

Fix' d an the walls with wonder and furpriie. Dryd.

4.

\i

ditutionj of things.

Why are thine eytsfixt to the fuUen earth,
Gaiing at that which I'cems to dim thy finht ! Slak,
Thus while the Trojan prince employs his eyes,

flexible;

,

I

power.

Sun or (Vars iXtJiilUJi view'd

2.

to eftablifh invariably.

In which of all thefe orbs ha<h man
Hi5^»i:rf feat, or yiaW feat hath none.
But all thefe Oiiuing orbs his choice to dwell ! MUi.
One \oia fixed laws, and the other arbitrary

Commodioufly ; meetly.
To talce a latitude.

1. Propriety;

;

w< pretend that tht didin£Hsn of fpeeicc, ar

Omnipotcncy,

Hell heard th' unfu&rable noife, h:ll faw
Hciv'n running from heav'ii, and would have fled
Affrighted, but that fate had fx'd too deep
Her dark foundations, and too faft had bound. Milt.

rich return of his venture : but in hoih lotteries ihere
Koyle.
lie pretty llore of blanks for every priie.
The whole of our duty may be Mprelted moll
Titlotftn.
fiuy ky departing from evil.

,

If
forts,

To make faft, firm, or ftable.

t.

manner fettled

and eftablifhed.

His horfefped with fpavins, ray«d with the yellows, paft cure of the fives, and ftark fjxjiled with
tthakrffeme.
the ftagfers.

I,

At their brightell; but to conclude
Ot longitudes, what other way hare vt
Sut to mark when, and where the dark cdipfes be.

Cert«inly i firmly j in a

1

1.

To FIX. -v. a. fixer, French ; fi.xus, Latin.

reafonably.

Slialkffp Ctrialatius.
Aj *»u mjlipi ojr feuatori.
Whrre a man caonM f:!y plajr hii own part, it
hf have not a friend, he may quit tlie ftage. Bjcoi.
I cannot fitlirr ompiie mafTdge than lo a lottery, for, in b«ih, he that veaturet may fuececJ,
and ma/ mif': and if he draw a prize, he haih a

2.

FLA

F I X

twroxyfmv; dtforJered by diange ofmaLdies.
Duncan it in hit (rave
AfWr tife"s_/f/»/ fever he rteepj well. S*ai. hbchetb.

Swift,

Fla'bile. aJJ. [fiabilis, Latin.] Blown
about by the wuid; fubje£i to be blown.
Dia.

FLA'CCID. ailj. {flaccidtu, Latin.] Weak;
limber; not ftiff; lax; not tenfe.

The bjwi^and inclining the head is found in the
great flower of the fun: the caufe I take to be is,
that the part againd which tlie fun beiteth waxeth

more faint ^Tiifiaccid in the (talk, and tliereby lefs
Bacon,
able to fupport the flower.
They whofe mufcles arc weak or fiaccid^ are
tUlder.
unapt to pronounce the letter r,
The furgcon ought to vary the diet as lie finds
the fibres are Xoo fiaccid and produce fungufes, or
Arbutbnot.
as they harden and produce callolitics.

Fi. ACCi'piTY. »./. \{tovn flaccid. '\

limberncfs;

want of teoiion;

Laxity;

want of

ftiffncfs.

There

•

FLA

FLA

FLA

He hangs out as mnay flags as he defcryeth vcf-

neither lluxioa nor pain, hutJlMc!J:!y
H-'ifrmaH'i Surgery.
joined with infenfibility.

There

is

Sandys.
fquare, if (hips; if gailies, pendants.
Democracies aveflcls fubjcdl to feditioathan where
lor if men's eyes are upon
(here are rtirps o nobles
the perfons, it is for the buliiiefs fake as (ittetf, and
Baecn.
not (orflags of pedigree.
Let him be girt
fels ;

To FLAG. V. a. \Jiaggereu, Dutch ; pkojan,

:

Saxon, to fly.
1.

To hang loofe without ftiffnefs or ten-

fion.
Beds of cotton wool hung up betn-een two trees,
not far from the ground ; in which, fl^ggiis "Jo"'"
in the middle, men, wives and children lie to^I'l'o'-

gether

The jades
That drag the tiagick melancholy night.

Who with their drowfy, flow, miflagging tv'irgs
Shtkfftart'i Htnry VI.
Ciip dead men's graves.
It keeps thofc flender aerial bodies fcfarated and
oiherwife,
by reafon of their
ftrctched out, which
flejjblenefs and weight, wouldjfag; or curl.
Boyle's Spring of ibe Air.
;

the Ihiftiog gales

Drydtn.

Forfake by fits, and fill ihc flagging fails.

z.

As if the were a body in a body :

My fcnfcs too ate dull a.id ftupify'd,
'i'hcii edge rebated : fure fom: ill approaches.
Dry Jen's Don Seijfli'an.

To grow feeble

;

to lofe vigour.

Juice in language is fomewhat lefs than blood
for il the words be but becoming and fignifying, and
but where that
the fenfe gentle, there is juice
w anteih, ihr language is ti>\n,fl.igging, poor, ftaryed,
fcjrce covering the bone, and lhc*s like Itones in a
fack : feme men, to avoid redundancy, run intothat
and while they (hive to hinder ill blood or juice,
:

:

Brn "Jonfon's Dijccn'erits,
they lofe their good.
His flomach will want viiKuals at the ulual hour,
cither fretting itfelf into a troublelbmc excefs, or
Laeke.
flagging into a downright want of appetite.
Fame, when it is once at a (land, naturally ^jgj
AJdifoa'i SfeBator.
and languilhcs.
If nn fublimcr wings of love and piaife.
My love above the ftarry vault I raile,
Lur'd by fome vain conceit of pride or tuft,
Arbuthnol.
Xfl^g, t drop, and flutter in the dull.
He fees a fpirit hash been raifed againO him, and he
only watches till it begins Vifljg : he goes about
Stuift,
watching when to devour us,
The pleafures of the town begin to fljg and grow
bnguid, giving way daily to cruel inioadi from the
Svift,
fpleen.
•

1.

To let fall into feeblenef*

;

The fate of vulgar beauty find
The thoufand loves, that arm thy potent eye.
:

Mull drop their i^vnn,flag their wings, and die.
Prior.

a fpccies of ftone.]

To lay

or pavements, commonly made of birch-twigs,
or of the leaves of the dwarf palm, imported from Spain.
Flag officfr. n.f. \ flag v&^ officer, A
commander of a fquadron.
Her grandfather was iflug-oflicer.
AJdi/on.

marble.
A white rtone ufed fot flagging fleorj.

Sttndyu
H^ocdv/arJ,

Flag, «./. [from the verb.]
1.

He will in thret hot months bite at aflag-rvornt,
or a green gentle.

tfalion't Angler.

Fla'celet. n.f.

[flageolet,

French.]

A

fmall inftrumcnt of wind

fmall flute ; a

Play us a leflbn on yo^itflagelel.

by which fignals are made at fca,

or regiments are diilinguilbed in the field.
'fhcfe flags of Franee rfiat are advanced here,
Erfore the eye and profpcO of your town.
Have hither march'd to yoar endamagement. Shake/,

* Vol, I.

;

heat ;

[flagraiitia,

f.

Dryd.

Latin.

fire.

Lull cauicth zflagrancy in the eyes, as the (ighf
and the touch are the things dcliied, and therefore
the ffirits lefortto thofc parts. Bacon's Nat. Hifl.

Fl a' G R A N T. adj. [Jlagians, Latin.]
Ardent; burning;

1.

eager.

It is always

ufed figuratively.

A thing which filleth the mind with comfort and
heavenly delijht, (lirreth up flagrant defires and
arteflions, correfpondent unto that which the words
lioeker.

contain.

2.

Glowing

flufhed.
See Sappho, at her toilet's grearyta(k.
Then \iXtiiniflagrant to an evening ma(k:
So morning infefls, that in muck begun.
Shine, buz, and riy-blow in the fctcing fun.
;

P'^fc,

Red; imprinted red.

3.

Their common loves, a lewd abandoned pack,
The beadle's lalh Hill_/?.;^ra»ron their back. Prior,
4. Notorious ; flaming into notice.
and at worO, if the crimes be (o flagrant
that a man is laid afide outof perfetl ftiame, he reSwift.
tires loaded with the fpoils of ihc nation.
itfelf;

With equal poife let fteady juilice fway,
hniflagrani crimes with certain vengeance pay;
Smith.

Flaora'tion. n.f. [flagro, Latin.] Burn-

Garth.

Fi.a'ccinkss. n.f. [immflaggj.] Laxity
limbernefs; want of tenCon.
VtAcr.Ts.aJj. [itomflag.l
1. Weak; lax; limber not ftiff; not tenfe.
^"fl^Sty wifigS when forth he did difplay,
Were like two fails, in which the hollow wind
Is pather'd full, and worktth fpeedy way.

The duke, lefs numerous, but in courage more,
His murdering guns a loud defiance roar,

And bloody croffes on Wis flag flafls rife.

Dry J,

Latin ; flegel, German. The inSrument with which grain
is beaten out of the ear ; the tool of the

Fl.

lairj i^.

ML.

II. f. [fleigeHiim,

threfher.

Our foldiers, like the night-owl's lazy flight.

inflpid.

Or like a laiy threflicr with a flail.
Fell genlly down as if they flruck their friends.
*
'
Shak.llen.VU

Cralt an appic-cion upon the (lock of a colewort,

Bacon.

(i'tomflagifius. Lat.

When in one night, ere glimpfe of morn,
His diaioKy flail hath threfli'd the corn,

villainous; atrocious.

No villainy or flagitious attion was ever jet com-

Ihohflagitiout times.

Pregnjnt with unknown ciimes,

Kofcommon,

In <\\M pil-.: Iliall reign a mighty prince,
Born fora fccuige of wit, and _A<j// of fenfe. Dryd.
The dextrous handling of t"he_^ii/7, or the plough,
and being good workmen with theife tools, did not
binder Gideon's and Cintinnatus's (kill in arms and
Locke,
government.
The threlher, Duck, could o'er the queen prcVail;

The proverb fays, no fence againft a flail.

Perjury is a crime of fo flagitious a nalute, we
cannot be too careful in avoiding every approjch to-

FLAKE, n.f., [floccus, Latin.]

wards it.

1.

Addi/on.

Sviift,

Any thing that .ippears loofcly held together, like a flock of wool.

But if in noble minds fome dregs remain,
Not vet purg'd off, of fpleen and four iliWain,
Difciiarge that rage on more provoking crimes,

Kor fcai a dearUi in {htieflagititm times.

Milton.

That ten day-labourers could not end.

There is no working upon a flagitious aod perverfe nature by kindnefs and difciplinc. L'Eflrange.

Conf).ire to violate ilv-nuptial bed;

'Ihe

On wings of all the winds to combat flics

That balking in the fun thy bees may lye,
.^nd rcfting there, their^a^^y pinions diy.
Dryd.

Weakintafte;

iiiilt

[fle^. ztidfaj.]

ftaffon which the flag is fixed.

;

mitted, but, upon a due enquiry into the caiifcs of it,
it will he found, that a lye was brit or laft the principal engine to effefl it.
South.

and the root: of other weeds.
Mortimer's Hufli.

Burning

n.

ing,

She look an ark of buirufhes, and laid it in the
Ex. ii. 3.
fljgt by the river's bri.ik.
Can bulruHies but by the river grow i
Cunfljgs there floutilh where no water, flow SgnJys.
There bt divers filies that cart their fpawn oi\ Jugs

2. The colours or enCgn of a (hip or land-

Fla'grancy,

Fla'gstaff. n.f.

I. Wicked;

forces,

Rojcmmon.

Om flagon walks the round, thatnone (hould think

The ufe of the fcourge.

Firft,

Chancery two

Bacon's Apophtb.
Did they coin pifspots, bowl^, andflagons
lilt* officers of horfc and dragoons ?
Hudibras.
His Kxn^y flagon, full of potrnt juice,
Wa; hanging by, worn thin with age and ufe.

More.

and it will bear a ZTcat flaggy apple.

tVa lion's Angler,

he pour'd s fl.tgon of Rhcni(h on
Si.'^kfp care's Hamlet.

But, 'till the proofs are clear, the ftioke dela)

mufick.

yellow flower, fo called from its motion
in the wind.

Cutflag roots,

!

fcnt him by a fuitor in

When fraud is great, itfurnilhes weapons to defend

fedgc.

2.

A vefTel

Spanifh.]

flafco,

^\\vtTflag'jns

flags

Flagship, n.f, [flag and Jhif.] The fhip
in which tl>c commander of a fleet is.
Flag- WORM. n.f. [flag and ivorm.] A
grub bred in watry places among flags or

A water plant with a bladed leaf and FLAGI'TIOUS. adj.

erftones.

A mad rogue
More had

'\

with broad (tone.
The fidca and floor were ill^u^ri/ with excellent

;

with a narrow mouth.

my head on.'e.

\iTQVtijUig and broom.^

A broom for fweeping

As morning pray'r indflagelljlion end.

:

,

Part of \vio flags ftriated, but deeper on one (ide
ll'oodiL^ard on Fcfli'l:.
than the other.
Flagftone will not fplit, as flate does, being found
formed \nXoflagSt or thin plates, which arc no other
IVooduard on FoJJils.
than ia many (Irata.

Flag broom, n.f.

liaWzn

of drink

Theycithcr change, or (Vint him in his drink.

By Bridewell all defcend.

Soon mufl tnofc glories of thy tace

[From ^<if

flafco,

In woods and wilds the^.i^r of Bacchus bear.

to fuffer to

droop.
Take heed, my dear, youth flies apace
As well as Cupid, Time is blind

2.

;

Eretfling crelts alike, like volumes rear.

Flacella'tion". H.f. [ttomflagello, Lat.]

Ti Flag. v. a.

Pofe.

;

Under the (ooxy flag of Acheron,
Harpies and hydras, or all the monArouc forms
'Twixt Africa and Inde, I'll find him out,
And force him to reltorehis purchafe back,
Mlhon.
Or drag him by the curls to a foul death.
The French and Spaniards, when yourflags appear,
lyaller.
Forget their hatred, and confeut to fear.
The interpretation of that article a'ooutthe^ag, is
Teni^k.
a ground at plcafure for opening a war.
Imcithtr'sflag the golden ferpcnts be.ir,

And lead his dances with dilhevell'd hair. Orydrn.
3. .\fpecies of ftone ufed for fmooth pavements, \Jlache, old French.]

Togrow fpiritlefs ordejeded.
My fl^^'^g foul flies under her own pitch.

Like fowl in air too damp, and lags along

3.

With all the grifly legion that troap

And, harder SiU\, flagitious yet not great.

Flagi'tiousness. n.f. [fvom flagi/iauf.]
Wickednefs ; villainy.
plaxe,
Fla'gon. «. f. [fflacced, Welrti
Saxon flafke, Danifh ; flapn, French ;

Dryden.
And mingle friendly hiflings in the air.
Then they, whofe mothers, franlick with their fear,

Like a fiery meteor funk the fun,

Tte promife of a ftorm

Guilty of crimes.
He dies, fad outcall of each church and ftate.

2.

Crimfon circles like red flakes

in

the element,

when the weather is hoitett.
Pofe,

And from his wide dcvouriiig ovenfent
J

F

Sidney.

A Haie

FLA
Fairy i^
The earth is fometimcs covered with fnow two or
only
j)i>A»
or pieces
little
made
up
at'
three feet deep,

This and Philafter have the loudeft fame
Great are their faults, and glorious is ihcirflame

Through Paris' (hicid the forceful weapon went.

In both our Englifh genius is exprcft.
Lofty and bold but negligently dreft.

And glancing downward near ^xiflanl: dcfccnds.

Burnet.

of ice.

Small drops of a millling rain, defcending through
« freezing air, do each of them (hoot into one of
ihofc ligjred icicles ; which, being ruffied by the
wind, in their fall are brolcen, and duilered together into fmill parcels, which we ca'.l/a^ejof fnow.
Grni'^i Cvfmolog.
Upon throwing in a ftone the water boils for a
conliderable time, and at the fame time are fcen

Moxa».

To her afpirc.
Come arm'd inflames

And undilfolv'd l\\e\cjlaky texture keep.
The banks with eafe their humble dreams contain.
Which fwell in Summer, and thofe banks difdain.
Blacktr..

Lying in layers or ftrata ; broken

2.

into

laminae.

Flam. n.f. [A cant word of no certain
etymology.] A falfehood ; a lye; an iU
lufory pretext.
hjlam more fenfelefs than the rog'ry
Hudibrai.
Of old arafpicy and aug'ry.
Till thcfe men can prove the things, ordered by
our church, to be either intrinlically unlawful or indecent, all pretences or pleas of confcieiice to the
contrary are nothing but cant and cheat, fam and

*""*•

delufion.

What are moft of the hillories of the world but
lyes ?

Lyes immortalized and configned over as a

with fuch weak breath as
Shake/p.
.
He M\ flaming through th' ethereal Iky
Milton.
To bottoinlefs perdition.
Hell all around
Milton.
As one great furnace_/?aOT'i/.

To Ihine like flame.
Behold it like an ample curtain fpread,

With fates averfc againit their king's command,
Arm'd on the right, .^nd on the left they ftand,
Dryden's Mn.
Kai flank the paffage.
3. To fecure on the fide.
By the rich fcent we found our perfum'd prey,
Which,^dK(i'i/with rocks, did clofe in covert lay.
Dryden.

Fla'nker. w./.

Of a bright )ellow colour.

Tlie Turks, difcouraged with the lofs of their
and fore beaten by tlie Spaniards out of
Knolles.
\ht\t flankers, were enforced to retire.
Like ftorms of hail the (fones fell down from high,
Caft from the bulwarks, J?««*f«, ports, and towers.

Fairf^

Peacham.

ment.

FLA' MEN. n. f.

[Latin.]

A prieft; one To Fla'nker. 'v. a. \flanquer, French.]
To defend by lateral fortifications.

that officiates in folemn offices.

Then firft ihtflamen tailed living food ;
Next his grim idol fmeac'd with human blood. Pope.
Flammabi'lity. ». /. [flamma, Latin.]
The quality of admitting to be fet on
fire, fo as

to blaze.

fulphur of bodies torrified, that is, the
oily, fat and un<^uo«s parts, confift the principles of
the

Brown.

flammability.

Flamma'tion. n.f, \flammatio, I.atin.]
The aft of fetting on name.
White or cryftalline arfenick, being artificial, and
fublimed with fait, will not eninnflammation.
Brozvn's Fitlgar Etrcurs.

Welfli ; from
7t.
f. [g'wlaneii,
gwlati, wool, Davies.] A foft nappy ftuff

Fla'nnel.
of wool.
I

fifting of flame;

A

refembling flame.

[flammi/er, Lat.]
DitS.

aiij.

Bringing flame.

torch.

The king fciied ijiamheau with zeal to deilroy.
Drydin.

As the attendant! carried each of them zflaml rau
having ordered all
the lights to be put out, gave the word to enter the
put
him to death.
and
criminal,
houfe, fi.id out the
in their hands, the fultan, after

Fla.mmi'vomous. at//, \flamma, znitjonto,
X>/<?.
Latin.] Vomiting out flame.
Fla'my. ai/J. [{rom flame.]

1

fattened only by one fide.
There is a peculiar provifion for the windpipe,
that is, a cartilaginous j!Ii/> upon the opening of the
larinx, which hath an open cavity for the adrailEon
Brown.
of the air.
crucial incifion upon the
Some furgeons make
fuppofition that the wound will more eafily heal by

2.

Having the nature of flame.
The vital fpirits of living creatures are a fubftancc

French.]
1. Light emitted from fire.

compounded of an airy anAflamy matter; and though
and flame, being tree, will not well mi/tgle, yet
Bacon.
bound in by a body they will.
air

Is not^.iwa vapour, fume, or exhalation heated
ted hot, that is, fo hot as to Ihme ? For bodies do

not flame without emitting a copious fume, and this
Newton' i Oft.
fume burns in thr/.imc.
I

Caxti/ry.
I.

Latin.

A hare, hard put to it by an eagle, took fandluary
in a ditch with a beetle :

2.

Flap filmy pinions oft, to extricate
Their feet in liquid (hackles bound.
Three times, all in the dead of night,
A bell was heard to ring;

i

Philips.

Andiliricking at her window thrice

Peacbam.

[In men.] The lateral part of the lower
belly.

To move with a flap or noife made by
the ftroke of any thing broad.
With fruitlefs toil

The raven^d^/»Vhis wing.

The belly fliall be eminent by fliadowing iheflank.
I.

ihe e3^\cflaj>t off the for-

L' Eftrange.
mer, and devoured the other.
Yet let me flap this bug with gilded wings,
This painted child of dirt, that (links and (lings.
Pope.

That part of the fide of a quadruped near

Cow/ty^

lips

To Flap. v. a. [From the noun.]
1. To beat with a fl.ip, as flies are beaten.

the hinder thigh.

Jove, Prometheus' theft allow;
grant him now.

T)\t fames he once Hole fiom thee,

ncfs of fancy; vigour of thought.

horfe has ihtflaps, you may perceive
fwellcd on both tides of his moutli ; and.
that which is in the blilters is like the white of an
egg : cut fome fla(hcs with a knife, and rub it once
Farrier's DiH.
with falt,(ij^ it will cure.

When a

his

Menage, from A«v«» ; more probably from
/<j/«x,

Ardourof temper or imagination ;bright-

The motion of any thing broad and loole.
3. [A difeafe in horfes.]

B'LANK. ft./, \flanc, French, according to

"Whitfanu, what lightning eVr

Sharp.

turning down the flaps.

blazinj;.

My thoughts imprifoa'd in my fecret woes,
Sidney.
V/ith flamy breaths do ilfue oft in found.

Aiidifon^i Gaar.iiittt.

FLAME, n.f. [flamma, Latin; ftammc,

Inflamed; burning;

1.

Sbakefpeare.

2.

This flammeous light is not over all the body.
Brcu'n

Flammi'ferous.

cannot anfwer the VltAch flannel.

FLAP. n.f. [loeppe. Saxon.]
Any thing that hangs broad and loofe,

Fla'mmeoi;s. tiiij. [flammeus, Latin.] Con-

Godisnot iobe^dw»«-</ofrwiih lyes, who knows
Soulb.
what not.
lighted
FLAM'BEAU, n.f. [French.]

A fortifica-

fellows,

'Tis ftrong, and it does indiSerent well in flameShakejpeare's Ttvelftb Night.
cohttred &ocV.\n%s.
Auguft (hall bear the form of a young man of a
fierce and cboleriik afpeO, in a flamecoloured gar-

rxaiftlv whit thou canft do, and

[from7?<7;?*.]

tion jutting out fo as to command the
fide of a body marching to theaflTault.

3.

South.

For fo our ignorance vmjiamm'd,

3.

mand any pafs on the fide.

Anon at noon inflaming yellow bright,
Prior.
And chuiing fable for the peaceful night.
To break out in violence of paflion.
Flameco'loured. aJJ. [flame and t:olo!ir. ]

To attack the fide of a battalion orfleet.
To be ported fo as to overlook or com-

1.

2.

Now ftreak'd and glowing with the morning red

To damn ourfelves t' avoid being damn'd. Hudiirai.

So i|uick an aflive forcedid bear
2. Fire.

That part of the
[In fortification.]
ballion which reaches from the curtain to
the face, and defends the oppofite face,
Harris.
the flank and the curtain.

To Flank, t. a.
your

To de-

perpetual abufe and/am upon pofterity.

7o Fla m. 'V. a. [from the noun.]
Merely cant.
ceive with a lye.

Crarrvilk.

this ?

In

Milton.

Divided, and to eiiher^.i«i reiir'd.

4.

city is ready toflame in,

2.

Pope.

To right and left the front

Couley.

of light.
Can you think to blow out the intended fire

part in loofe bodies.

Hence, when the fnows in Winter ceafe to weep,

tlayward.

would prove

To Flame. i;.». [from the noun]
1. To (hine as fire; to burn with emiffion

From the bleak pole no winds inclement blow,
Mold the round hail, orjiaie the fleecy fnow.
Pc^fV Odj/f.
To Flake, i;. «. To break into larainz ; to

Loofely hanging together.
The filent hour ftealson,
Kai flaky darknefs breaks within the Eaft. Shaleff.
The trumpet roars, long faky flames expire.
With fparks that fecm to fet the world on tire.

Bacotft War luitb Spain.

Cray was appointed to ftand on the left fide, in fuch
fort as he might take ihtflani of the eaenw.

Cvwley.
for 1

;

All the extremities of love.
No warning of th' approaching^ara* i
Swiftly like fudden death it came
1 lov'd the moment 1 beheld.

in flakes or bodies loofely connctSed.

1.

and from the gallies that lay atfea inflank.

Pope.

To Flake, -v. a. [from the noun.] To form

Flakv, adj. [from ^att,]

Great ordnance and fmall fliot thundered and
(howeied upon our men from the rampier in front,

Paflion of love.
My heart's anJlaine, and does like fire

5.

layer; film; lamina.

rcceiTcd the perfeft form ilic teeth would make.

The fide of any army or fleet.

3.

Smit with the love of kindred arts we came,

Thc_/f.iirj of his tough flefii (b firmly bound.

Sandys.
As not to be divorced by a wound.
The teeth cut away gmijlaiet of the metal, till it

Pope.

ffal/i

An3 met congeneal, minglinf^ams vnhflatm.

_

;

His corUet pierces, and his garment rends,

Ardour of inclination.

4.

AdJif.

Iittle/.itooffcurfriCngup.

A ftratum

He faid, and pois'd in air, the jav'lin fenf

Of all our elder plays*

A_/fn.<r of fire, that Sufhing in his kearj,

Him all amai'd, and almolt all affcar'd.

2.

FLA

FLA

To Flap. 'v. n.
I.

To ply the wings with noife.

Tickfl.

FLA

FLA
tering awav, ij if maimed, to carry people from her

young.

'

The imjl.ifp!tig on

'le

fluttering about his iiead,

VEJira^ge.
fhield of Tumus, and

dilheartened him in

Drjdcn's Mn.

To

fall with flaps or broad parts depfend-

t.

3.

Shak./peare'i King l^ar.
That fets us all at odds.
'1 o
break out into wit, merriment, or
bright thought.

Taftelefs ; infipid ; dead.
He, like a puling cucknlJ, would drink up
The lees.iiid dregs of a_/i'.jr tamed piece. Hbake/f,
Tafte fo divine! that what of I'lveet before

Theyflaflj out fometimes into an irregular greatFclton on the CLtJJtcki,

Hath touch'd my fenfe, flat lecias to tills and harHi.
Mihsn,

the

duel.

To Fl ASH. 1). a.

Fla'pdracon. »./. [from a dragon fuppofed to breathe fire.]
1. A play in which they catch raifins out
of burning brandy, and, extinguifhing
them by clofing the mouth, eat them.
2. The thing eaten at flapdragon.

He plays at quoits well, and eats conger and fenand drinks candles ends

for JIaparagonSf

and

Sbakefpeare.

To Fla'pdragon. "J. a. [from the noun.

Low cant.

To fwallow; to devour.
But to malce an end of the

With his raging arms he rudely ^^r/^V

If the fea-watcr be flaflied with a ftick or oar,
the fame cafteth a Ihining colour, and the drops refemble fparkles of hrc.
Carciv.

Fla'shiiR. n./. [fromyfay^.]
A man of
more appearance of wit than reality. Diff.
Flas'hilv. adv. [from /ajfy.]
With
empty (how ; without real power of wit,
or folidity of thought.
Fla'shy. aJJ. [from ^aflh.]
1. Empty; not folid; Ihowy without fub-

DoArinc and

Which ihou think'tl nothing, friend

\YtQvaJlacciJiis,Skiaiier.}^

Herkert,

When the fun begins to Bing
Y\i% flaring

beams, me, goddefs, bring

MillM,

To be in too much light.

3.

I

cannot ftay

Flaring in funthine all the day.

Prisr.

It is iflat

in

fiuiis, herbs, and

roots, are bitter, harlh, four, waterilh or^ii/!')'.
BacQfi'i Natural lliflory.

A bottle

I .

Shakffptare,

a vxflel.

When the croA blue lightning (cem*d to open

on fire.

But he that boalls, (huts that out of his llory.
He makes ^.1/ war with God, and dith defy.
With his meerclod of earth, thcfpacious Iky.

Wiihy?j/ felonious intentions.

The lioufcs arc 7?.)/ roofed to walk upnn, fo ihat
every bomb that fell on tliem would take effedl.

Defy'd the forky lightning from afar.
At hfty mouths his flaming breath expires,
Ani flajh Sotflafl) returns, and fires for fires. Dryd.

Where

^^«

Ceafe t' admire, and beauty's plumes
and Oirink into a trivial toy.
At every fudden (lighting quite abaiht.

That Chrift-church (lands above ground, and that

Bacon,

the church of Wcftminfter lies not flat upon

your lordlhip's commendation.

y'o Flash, t.-. ».

Lying proftrate

5.

;

it,

is

lying along.

That lamentable wound.

Which laid that wretched printcjft/r on the ground.
[In painting.]

will

A level; an extended plane.

I.

Theftringsof a lute, viol, or virginals, give a far
greater found, by realon of the knot, board and con-

Baccn,

Becaufe the air receivelh great tindlurc from the
earth, expofe flelh or filh, boih upon a (take of wood

Wanting relief; wanting

Baan.

the earth.
It comes near an

artificial mir.iclc to makedivcrs

diHinft eminences appear a fl.it by lorce of Ihadovvs,
and yet the (hadows thcmfelves not to appear.
kf'ot'on's Archilelture.

He has cut the fide of the rock into a flat for a
garden; and by laying on it the wadeearth, that he
has found in feveral of the neighbouring parts, furnilhcd out a kind of luxury for a hermit.
Addi/m,

Even ground not mountainous.
Now pile youi^dud upon the quick and dead,

,

;

D.mitt.

prominence of the figures.

it

Bacon.
windpipe is endued with
fevcral cartilages and mufclcs to contrail or dilate
it, as we would have our \u\ic flat or Iharp.
Ray,

The upper end of the

South.

The wood-born people fall before hcrflaf.
And worlhip her as goddefs of the wood. Fairy Q^

6.

the holes of a hawk's bell,

fomc height above the earth, and upon the flat of

In them is plained taught, and eafieftlearnt,

What makes a nation li-ippy, and keeps it fo.
What ruins kingdoms, and lays citicsj^j/. Miltoit.

A body of water driven by violence,

2. Toburft out into any kind of violence.
By day and night he wrongs me ; cv'r| hour

If you ftop

the lower.

Milton.

4. Level with the ground.

The Pei&ans and Macedonians bad it for a flaflj.

To glitter with a quick and tranfient

found.

cave underneath, ihan if there were notliing but
only the flat of a board to let in the upper air into

Fall flat,

A (hort tranfient (late.

flame.
This fait powdered, and put into a crucible, was,
by ihc injection of well kindled charcoal, made to
•jy/i divers limes, almoli like melted niire.
Boyle.
JaJ.

Bacon,

Not elevated; fallen; not eredt.

3.

not (harp in

Fl a t. ». /,

In the dawning of the ncxtd.iy we might plainly
difcern it was a land flat to our light, and lull of
bolcage.

Hudtbras,

not acute;

(hrill;

t.iake no ring, Imt ay?j/ nuife or rattle.

Addijon on Italy.

Smooth; without protuberances.

2.

Not

12.

.

Sudden buril of wit or merrinlCT^.

be your gibes now? your gambols? yo-jr
fongs? yt>\}rflafljei of merriment, that were wont to
fet the table in a roar •
Sbakefp.
Wicked men prefer the light
of a wanton
mirth, which tor a while fufpeod reflexion, and
hide the finner trom himfelf, to (uch di&ourfes as
awaken confcience.
Riggers.

You had broke and robb'd his houfe.
And dole his talifmanique loufc;
And all hisTicw-found old inventions,

Horizontally level without inclination.

And as ^^geon, when with heaven he llrove,

1.

Boall not thereof, nor make thy lliame thy glory;
Frailty gets pardon by fubmilCvenefs,

Herbert,

StxVueflai the thick totundityo' ih' world. Shakeff.
Virtue could fee to do wh it virtue would
By her own radiant light, though fun and moon
Were in thc^*ir fca funk.
Milton,

4^

Milio/i's turadifcLoft.
If thou fin in wine or wantonnefs,

Fobe.

Thou, all-fhaking tliunder,

We

Siaiefpeare'i Henry IV,

And that mud end us.

FLAT. aJj. [plat, French.]
1.

will, thil'iflat.

Thus repuls'd, our final hope
Is flat dcfpair
we mull exafpcrate
Vidlor to fpend all his rage.
Almightv
Th'

A vefTei i«

Sbaktfp,
fee iflaflt ol a piece is feen fooner than the
is
heard.
Bacon'
Natural
noifc
»
Hiflory,
One with iflajh begins, and ends in fmoak;
The other out of fmoak brings glorious light.

3.

1

Sbakefpeare.

Fla'sket. w./. \ltaai fltfjk.'l
which viands are ferved.

Ev'n in the aim and stx\flajh of it.

z.

Thofe prifoners you Ifiall keep:

Another plac'd

The breallof heav'n, 1 did prclcnt myfelf

Sidney.

wrong to punilh the thought or purpole

You ftart away.
And lend no ear unto mypurpofesj

A

The filver Hands with %o\it.u flaflccii grac'd.

A fudden, quick, tranlitory blaze.

downright.

:

;

Then for the Bourdeaui you may freely a(k ;
But the Champaigne is to each man Vxtflajk. King.
powder-horrw
2>

FLASH, n. f. [<pAi|, WmyW.]

;

of any before it be enabled ; for true juilice puniihcth
Spenfer.
nothing but the evil aft or wicked word,
As it is in the nature of all men to love liberty,
fo they becomey?<j/ libertines, and faH to all licenSpenjer,
tioufnefs.

Drydcn,

Bacon's Eflayi.

The tallcs that moll oBcnd

Peremptory ; abfolute

thou (halt not

out force or fpirit.

Is fet

She fhall be loofe enrob'd.

With ribbands jcaiiat flaring 'bout her head.

1.

Sbakefp.

Powder in a Ikillcfs foldier's flaflt

To flutter with a fplendid (how.

4.

Seem to me all the ufes of this world!

His horfe with _/?.;/ tiring taught him, th«t dif-

FLASK, n.f. [fla/que, Ftench.J

To arched walks of twilight groves.

Milton.

crect (lays make fpeedy journeys.

Diltilled books are, like common didilled waters,

To glitter offenfively.

niy genial fpirits dn^op,

In all her functions weary of herfelf,
10. Unplea(ing; tallelefs.
How weary, (tale, ^.rr and unprofitable

1 1

Inflpid ; with-

flafljy things.

Doth vanilh like i flaring thing.

And in the ear, not conlcicnce, ring.

I

buy;
Nor will 1 change for all \.\ic fl.tfljy wit.
2.

Dryden.

dejected.

happinels, and.earncftly defirous of obtaining it, all
earthly fatisfa^ions mull needs look little, and grow
Atterliury's Sermons.
flat and unfavoury.

This mean conceit, this darling myftery.

life, colours, and light, in one

fpiritlefs ;

To one firmly perfuaded of the reality of heavenly

Crate on their fcrannel pipes of wretched draw,
MitlOK.

When they combine and mingle, bring

I.

I teel

Flafloy wits cannot fathom the whole extent of a
Digbyon the Soul, Dedication.
When they lift, their lean diniflafl.y fongs

accidentally

A tlrong regard and awe; but fpeech alone

Deprefled ;

My hopes Mflat, nature within me focms

Urge difcourfe.

Having

To glitter with tranfient luftre.

He made indeed, but _//iir infipid itulf.
9.

ftance.

A whorcfen, beetle-headed ^.'^«rf</ knave. Sbak.
fo Flare, a. a. yiioxa Jiedtritt, to flutter,

I.

frigid.
Short fpeeches fly abroad like darts, and arc thought
to be iliot out of fecrct intentions ; but as for large
difcourfes, they ixtflat things, and not to much no«ed.
Bacon.
Some (hort excuriions of a broken vow

Fairy ^esn.

loofe and broad ears.

Dutch, Skinner ; perhaps
changed itom glare,

Dull; unanimated;

8.

That all the blood and filth away was walh'd.

(hip, to fee how the

[^fl/ and far.]

Rejoicing in rich mold, moft ample fruit
Of beauteous form produce; plealir.g to light.
But to the tongue inelegant iniflat,
Piilifi,

The waves about, and all his .irmour fvvept.

Sbukefpeare^s Winter^ t l^uU,

tt3fapJrag-j)ied it.

Fla'peared. fli^'.

The miry fields.

To ftrtke up large bodies

of water from the furface.

When fuflbcaling mifts obfcure the mom,
Let thy word wig, long us'd to Iforms, be worn;
This knows the powdcr'd footman, and with care
Gay.
Beneath \\Mflafftng hat fecures liis hair.

rides the wild mare with the boys.

7.

nefs of thought.

ing.

nel,

FLA

He flajhes into one grofs crime or otiiet,

'Tiseommon for a duck to ranjlafp'ing and flut-

'

I'ili

of this_y?i/r a mountain yuu have made,

T' o'crtop old Pclion, or the (kyilh he.id

Of blue OlympuSi
i f i

Siaki/pearc'i Hamlet,

The

'.

The way is ready and not lonj,

3.

Without prominence or elevation.
Without fpirit; dully; frigidly.

1.

Peremptorily; downright.

I,

Peyoai a row of myrtlts, on yftat,
,., , a
MUion's ParaJi/e Up.
Fart by a mounlain.
fmooth low ground expofed to inun-

A

3.

FLA

FLA

FLA
The ocean, overpeering of his lift.

their unwilling neighbours out of all their pofTeflioos.

Decay ef fitly.

him

believing his exiftence, fedude

From

BentUy.

Thefe Lincoln wallies have devouredthem. Abate/.
the fea where
4. Shallow ; ftrand ; place in
the water is not deep enough for (hips.
not fee the fandy hour-glafs run,
Shak.
But 1 ftould think of (hallows and oi fuls.
The difficulty is very great to bring them in or

ifwindand
out through fo many /a/i and fmds,
Raitigi's EJ/jys.
weather be not very favourable.
Having newly left tbefe grammatick fats and
they arc
fhallovcs, where they ftuck unreafonably,
now turmoilcd with their unballarted wits in fathomMilton.
Jefs and unquiet deeps of controvcrfy.

one
It appears fo very plain and uniform, that
would think the coiner looked on the fiainefs of a
figure, as one of the gteateft beauties in fculpture.

Addifon on Mcdah.
vapidnefs.
3. Deadnefs; infipidity;
Deadnefs or flatnifs in cyder is often occafioned
by the too free admiHion of air into the velTel.
Mar timer's Hu/bandry.

full in the prince's paffage bills of fand.

Where the falfe tides Ikim o'er the cover'd land,

!

itiat he did

but fee

And feamen wiihdiflcmblcd depths betray. Drydtn.

Mull we now have an ocean of mere JIati and
Bentlcy.
Ihallows, to the utter ruin of navigation?

Tht fialm/t of my mifery Shakeff. IVinter'i Tale.
of life; want
5. Dejeftioh of mind; want
of fpirit.

he broad fide of a blade.
A darted mandate came
From that great will which moves this mighty frame,

How faft docs obfcurity, fiatnep, and impertinen'Tis a difficult
cy flow in upon our meditations?
life and pertaflc to talk to the purpofe, and to put

Bid me to thee, my royal charge, repair,
To guard thee from the daemons of the air;
My flaming fword above 'em to difplay,

fpicuity into our difcouries.

I

'1

AH keen and ground upon the edge of day,
he JIat to fweep the vifions from thy mind.

found.
Take two faucers, and ftrike the edge of the one
bottom of the other within a pail of
water, and you (hall find the found growetli more
6at, even while part of the fauccr is above the water
but ihitfiatnefi of found is joined with a harfhnefs.

(

againft the

therefore bound to maintain, that there are no J/als
amoogft his elevations, when 'tis evident he creeps
(long foroetimes for above an hundred lines together?

Dryden.

A

furface without relief, or prominences.

Krt there then fuch ravilhing charms in a dull
unvaried JIat, to mike a fufficient compcnfation for
the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for
BtntUy.
the precious things of the lafling hills ?

TsFlat. v. a. [from the noun.]

To level;

1.

to deprefs; to

them on the (ides, and
bind them dofe, and let them in the ground, (hey
Bacon.
will come up in one (lock.
With horrid (hapes (he does her fons cxpofe,

Diftcnds iheir fwelling lips, iaijlats their nofe.
Creicb.

An o«nge, lemon and apple, wrapt in a linen
a fortnight lour feet deep
within theeanh, though in a moift place and rainy
harder than they were;
litile
time, were become a

cloth, bftng buried for

otherwife frelh

To beat down to the ground.
If they (hould

lie

in

it,

fialten it, it will rife again.

To make vapid.
To dcjed to deprefs

3

4.

;

and beat it down, or
Mortimer's Ilu/landry.

'

'

Fla'tlonc. ad-v. [flat and /»»f.] With
not edgewife.
the flat downwards
;

What a blow was there given ?

—An

it

had fallcn/j//o;i^.

FLA'TLY.tfi/T;. [from/to.]

Horizontally; without inclination.

Sbak.
and if

which is a man's felf. But if he be an
impudent^j/rfrf, look wherein a man is confcious
to himfelt that he is moft defedlive, and is moft out

fiaitercr,

of countenance in himfelf,

that will the fiattercr

entitle him to perforce.

Bacon,

If we trom wealth to poverty dcfcend.

Want gives to k»ow ihefiaU'rer trom the friend.
DrydcH.
After treating her like a goddefs, the hufband ufes
her like a woman: what is (llll worfe, the moft ab]e&fiatlerers degenerate into the greatetl tyrants.
Addifon' s Guardi.ir..
The publick (liould know this: yet whoever goes
about to inform them, ftiall be cenfured for a fiarSiuift.

terer.

Fla'ttery.

». /.

[from flatter

;

flatterie,

French.] Falfe praife; artful obfcquioufnefs; adulation.
Minds, by nature great, are confcious of theirgreatnefs.

Rowe,
Pofe,
Simple pride for fiati'ry makes demands.
See how they beg an alms oifiattery !
They languifli, O! fupport them with a lye. Toung.

[from flat.]
approaching to flatnefs.

Fla'tttsh. aJ/.
flat ;

Somewhat

[frova flatulent.]

Windinefs; fulnefs of wind ; turgefcence
Vegetable fubftances contain a great deal of air,^

that are attended with
fatiety and furfeits, inifiatten in the very tailing.

which expands itfeif, producing all the diforders of

to fatisfadions

L'Eftrargt.

Fla'tter.

[from/<7/.]

». /.

The work-

man or inftrument by which bodies

Arbuthnol.

flatulency.

2. Eraptinefs ; vanity; levity; airinefs.
Whether moft of them are not the genuine derivations of the hypolhefis they claim to, may be determined by any that conlidei-s the ai.twi\ flaiulency
Vlanuille.
oi that airy fcheme of notions,

are

flattened.

FLA'TTER. -v. a. {flatter, French.]
rULENT.a<^'. [flatiilentusjiatut,h&l.]
To footh with praifes; to pleafe with FLA'
Turgid with air; windy.

blandifliments ;

to

gratify with

fervile

j

being tlien modfiattered.

I.

Peaie are mild and demulcent ; but being full of
when dilTolved by di-

aerial particles are flatulent,

Arbulhnot.

gcllion.

Flatulent tumours are fuch as ealily yield to the
prelTure of the Hnger; but readily return, by their
Sjiincy,
elafticity, to a tumid (late again.

Shak.

His nature is too noble for the world;
He would notfiatter Neptune for his trident.
Or Jove for'spower to thunder his heart's his mouth;
What his breaft forges that his tongue mull vent.

,

Empty

;

vain ; big without fubflance or

:

Shakejpeare.

He that fiatterelh his neighbour, fpreadeth a net
for his feet.

Shakeff. Temfrfi.

;

by wind confined.

He fays he does

hinder the fpirit of prayer and devotion,
than unpremeditated aod confufed variety to diftraft
•
''
A^/w^ Charles.
and lofe it.

fiat and

^

I

1,

Nor arc conftant forms of prayer more likely to

.

'^fiallerers.
When I tell him he
He fays Ive does; being II. n moft flattered.

Fla'tulency. ». /.

To render unanimated or evanid.

;

falfiiies.

Thefe are from three inches over to fix or feven»
tVoodtvard on Fajfils.
and of ifialtijh (hape.

obfcquioufnefs; to gain by falfe compliments.
When I tell him he hates flatterers.

firtt.

;

to gain favour by pleafipg

Here joys that endure for ever, freih and in vigour,

:.

Trw//f.

a fawner ;

endeavours

to difpirit.

;

7» Fla'tten, 'u. n.
I. To grow even or level,
z. To grow dull and infipid.

7'o

I-burnt it the fecorid time, and obferved the (kin
(brink, and the fwelling to fiat yet more than at

t.

nence or elevation.

Bacon't Natural BiJIiry.

what failed.

2.

To make even or level, without promi-

1

m their colour, but iheir juice fome-

To Flat. t/. n.
1. To grow flat: oppofed to /ti»^//.

flatters ;

Milton.

One who
one who
a whcedler

And hold it mean to borrow aught hamfiatlery.

are oppofcd

To make vapid.

He, always vacant, always amiable,
Hopes thee, oifiall'ring gales
Unmindful.
Fla'tterer. »./. [itom flatter,']

ToFla'tten. -v. a. [flatir, French; from

make broad

Teral fruit-trees, and fiat

harmony, pleaHnjIy tills the
D'yden'i Dufrefnoy,

To raife falfe hopes.

Bacon.

2.

and fmooth.
The ancients fay, if you take two twigs of (e-

2.

into

- Pcfe.
and others funk \r>lo fiat nefi.
acutenefs of
or
fhrillnefs
to
7
he
contrary
7.

fuftian,

The edge to cut 'em through that (lay behind. Dryd.
6. Deprellion of thought or language.
but am I
Milton's Paradife Loft is admirable

7.

A confort of voices fupporring themfelves by their
different parts makes a

Collier.

Dulnefs; infipidity; frigidity.
Some of Homer's tranflators have fwelled

6.

This fenfe \»

he be an ordinary fialtirer, he will have certain
common attributes, which may ferve every man : if
he be a cunning fiatteret, he will follow the arch'

The emperor of RulTia was my father
His daughter's trial

footh.

Some praifes proceed merely of flattery

Dejeftion of fortune.

Oh, that he were alive, and here beholding

And img'rous fals, in ftcrct ambulh liy,

to

purely Gallick.

^.

Evennefs ; level extenfion.
z. Want of relief or prominence.

4.

pleafe ;

ears and fiaticrs them.

I ,

I (liould

To

3.

Fla'tness. a. /. [from/<j/.]

Pairing theft /a/r, are taken by the tide;

Young.

Provoke our cenfure.

frt)m diretiing

the world.

Half my pow'rs this night.

'1

Flalter'd crimes of a licentious age.

Dtijull,

Shakeffcare'ttlamlfl.
O'erbears your officers.
All the infeflions, that the fun lucks up
Sbakrff.
bogs fens. >""i »" Profp'ro f-*"-

s

To praife falfely.

2.
Daniel.

thou fay'rt.
Milton.
Flatly unjuft, to bind with laws the free.
allow it to be fpoken of fuch
interpreters
Not any
that
z% fiaily deny the being of Cod; but of them

Eats not ititfat! with more impetuous hafte
Than young Laertes, in a riotous head,

fofe.
Nevittn,

Averfe alike to_^ijr/rr or offend.
1 fcorn toJlalier you or any man.

He in thefe wars hiifiatly refufed VaiA.Sidney.
Thereupon they fially difavouch
To yield him more obedience, or fupport.

dations.

faflors out of part, they contrived another of forcing

Prov.xxix. 5.

Hc^a/rrrfM himfcit' in his own eyes,
iniquity be found hateful.

until

his

t"/- xxxvi. j.

After this way of flallering their willing bene-

reality; puffy.

To talk of knowledge, from ihofe few indiftinA
reprefentations

which are made to our gro(rer fjcul-

Clanville'i Scepjis,
a fiatuleni vanity.
m.iny of thefe flatulent writers have funic
eight editions of
or
in their reputation^ after fevea
ties,

is

How

their worlu,

Drydtn.

FlAtco'sity,

FLA
FtATUo'siTT.

». /,

FLA

from /a^«/, Latin.]
of air.
The caufe is_^i/«(5/&y; for wind ftirr;d,

Rkubarb In the llomach,

Should fink beneath his heavenly weight}

movetli

He

Latin.]

in a fmall quanity, dcrh

z.

ffMlward on Foffils.

To Fl A U N T. -v. n.
1 . To make a fluttering (hew in apparel.
yi'whfiaunting honeyiuckle.

Addi/on's Sfeaaior.

Being iiicens'd, he's flint

to

I heard the

Was diltant

and ihefe flav/s, though mortals feat

Myrtle, orange, and the blufhing rofe.
With bending heaps, fo nigh their bloom difclofe.
'''o""_
Fla vorous. ad), [frorayfaojca;-,

ttj the palate.
Sweet grapes degcu'rate there, and fruits dedin'd
From their iMflav'roui taftt, renounce their kind.

Which choak'd thepalTage. Drydcn's Aurengxebe.
A fudden commotion of mind.

A woman's (lory at a Winter's fire. Shake. Macbeth.
Jo break;

J.

to crack ;

to

damage with

fiflurc.

But his_^a^'(/heart.
Alack, too weak thecontlirt tofupport,
' Twixt twoeitremct of
palfion, joy and grief,

Dryden,
2. Fragrant; odorous.
n.j. [^A«'* to break
ploh, Saxon,
;
a garment.]

FLAW.

Burll fmilingly.

ShakeJpeare'sKi„g Lear,
the CUD wiiflatved wiih fuch a multitude ol
cracks, th»t it look, hke a white, not like
a

A crack or breach in anything.

little

cryftalline cup.

^'y^A-.

The braien cauldrons with the frofts atcflatu'd,
The garment ftiti with ICC, at hearths istluw'd.

flav.<i

Sbaltrff cart's King Leaf.
""P!
si"
Wool, new-(horn, being laid cifually upon
a vedel

of vcijuice, after fome time had
drunk up a great
part of the verjuice, though the
veffel were whole,
wiifaoul m^flaiu and had not the bunjhole
open.

Bacon'i Natural HiJI.ry.

keep out the
hole otflaiu.

kflatv is in thy ill-bak'd veflel found

'Tu hollow, and ictuiat » jarting found.

^

''

:

Dryden.

Dryden.

rr-

2.

To

break ; to violate. Out of ufe.
France huhflaxu'dihi league, and hath attach'd
Our merchant's goods. Sbake/peare'i Henry V 1 1 1

Fla'wl.ss.

adj.

\(TomJiav;.]

Without

cracks; without defedts.

A (lar of the firft magnitude, which the more
high, more vaft, and more fla-wlrfs, (hines only
Irigitt enough to maiLe itf«lf confpicuoui.
Boyle,
4

the

old levitical

Raleigh.
hicrachy continued, it-

Then give command the facrifice to hafte
Ixl theflay'd viflims in the plains be cart ;
And facred vows, and rayrtick fong, apoly'd
To grilly Plu«o and hisgloomy bride. Pope's Odyjpy,
2.

To take off the ikin or furfacc of an/
thing.

Neither (hould that odious cuftom be allowed of
cutting fctaws, which itflaying off the green furface

To Flaw, f, a. [fronj the noun.]

! Delightful

difficult to
»ir from getting in at any imperceptible

WhiKt

They flay their (kin from. oflT them, break their
Mac.

Impoftors to true tear, would become

DryJcn.

,

flayed lYive.

bones, and chop them in pieces.

Oh thefejftstfr and ftartj,

fmell the flavour which the other

muft have been eaten with wild hearts, or havt
into the hands of the Spaniards, and been

South.

When hrft it broke, the crowding cnlignsfaw
5.

'v/aert, Dutch.]

;

was part of the miniftetial office toflay the facritices.

Saakefp.

Sfta.
2. Swcetnefs to the fmell; odour; fragrance.

Addiftn.

fillcn

The fort's revolted to the emperor.
The gates are open'd, the portcullis drawn,
And deluges of armies from the town
Came pouring in , ] heard the mighty^wj

ance, tiom fevcral accidental circumltances, which
Ihcy may lofe, it not taken early.
Addijon't

I bought a hit flaxen long wig.

I

rack.

And this fell tempclt Ihallnol ceafe torage.
Until the golden circuit on my head
1)d calm. the tuiy of this madbMiu'd^faw.

They have a certain_^af->«rr, at their firft appear-

as if made of

To ftrip off the fliin.

Are to the mam inconfiderable. Milton's far.
Loft.
tumult ; a tempeftuous uproar.
4.

Power of pleafing the tafte.

making ligatuccs are the

and flowing,

Fair, long,

Danilh
1.

As dangerous to the pillar'd frame of heav'n.
Or to the earth's dark bMis underneath.

Hbalteh
"^'

FL.VVOUR. «./.

;

for

Fla'xweed. »./, A plant.
TffFLAY. 1;. a. [adfaa.iaandicki/afi

A

WilJly bound up, what would he fay! or how
Should I in theic my borrow'd_/?jj(»/f behold
1

Chapman's Iliad.

them.

ycpf.

How would he look to fee his work fo noble,

CTceeding

2.

the ground,

As earth aod Iky would mingle ; but myfelf

Fortune in men has fome fmall difference made;

It

a

Milt en.

flying.
'J his fee ms not
to be proper
the words Jiaunt a-a^ flutttr might with
more propriety have changed their places

.

is with

Bunting their brazen dungeon, arm'd with ice,
And fnow, and hail, and flormy guft, iaiflav,
Boreas, and Caccias, and Arpelles loud.
And Thralcias rend the woods, and feaj upturn.

To be hung with fomething loofc and

,

Tbomfon'sH'lnter.

The belt materials

flax.

fo, fcnt againll

Was foii'd Eurialui.

the ftreets in your new-guilt chariot, never minding
me nor your numerous family.
Aibuthrt:ii.

We found

The matron, at her nightly tafk,.

flaxen thread thar flioemakers ufe. Sharp's Stirgtry.

the cold weed-gathering Ihore,

Shoots back ;

Ontflatnii in rags, one flutters in brocade.

Made of flax.

With penlive labour draws the_/?a;tf» thread.

noTX'nflaiu fraid.

We take on truft, in purple robes to (hint.

,_

Fla'xen. adj. [from/ff;r.]
1 .

As a huge fifh, laid
Near

He

that prepares flax for the fpinner.

Slait/feare' i Hamlet,

And poor, are yet ambitious to be fine.
Dryien,
Vou fot, you loner about alehoules, atflaunt about

This heart (hall break into a Ihoufand

Fla'xdresser, ».y; [fax m<li dre/s.l

Should patch a wall, t'ejtpel the Winrer'sjAiw.

koylt.

j

And turning fuiig.
Dryden't Ovid.
I-LAx'coMB. ». /. [flax and comb.] The
inftrument with which the fibres of flax
are cleanfed from the brittle parts.

As^awrcongealedthefpringofday. Shalt. Hen. IV.
Oh, that that earth, which kept theworld in awe.

Herer attir'd beyond our purfe, y-t go,
ToFufelefs ornament ini flaunting ftjow

FtAuNT. n./. Any thing loofe and airy.

Shake/f. King Lear.

;

As humourous as Winter, and as fudden

Milton,

and whites ofeggs,

Then on the rock a fcanty meafure place
Of vital j?jji-, and turn'd the wheel apace,

Dryden.

So aunyflaivshad this vow in its nrfl conception.
Atierimy.
fudden guft
a violent blaft. [from
3.
flo, Latin.] Obfoletc.

Theft courtiers ot ap^laufe deny the mfelves things
convenient to ^jkM it out, being frequently enough
fain 10 immolate their own defires to their vanity.

I.

the fpinner.
I'll fetch fome_^ajr,

Hudiiras.
Their judgment has fouTid a flaiv in what the ge-

With ivy canopy'dj and interwove

of which the fineft-

T' apply to's bleeding face.

And laid her dowry out in law.

A

The fibrous plant
thread is made.

2. 7 he fibres of flax cleanfed and combed for

Could we be ccrtjin fuch they were, fo known :
But lince hmtflaws in long deicenu may be,

To nuil her jointure wirh tflaiu.

I'las,

Dutch.]
1.

Tliey make not truth, but probability.

Ain/ivorth.

FLAX. ». /. [pleax, plex, Saxon;

for that

Bacon's Ejfays.

To fcrape or p.Vre a

a.

Fla'wy. adj, [^Tomflaiu,'] Full of flaws.

defeft ; fomething that weakens

nerality of mankind admires.

and parallel
to the fiteol iheftutumia which it was repomc4.

To Fla'wter. 1:

_ Jkin.

Tr.iditions were a proof alone.

not the edge.

Its pofturc in the earth was Jai'a/i/i,

to

;

the fcrivcners and brokers do value unfound men to

i^ncy.
'FL^'TWlit,al!j. [/«/ and wife.- foitfhouM
be written, not faKvays.} With the fiat

Each feemi

A fault

ferve their own turn.

warm aromatic.'.s.

1.

muft
and fupply it im-

Yet certain though it be, it hath^awr;

n. f. [Latin.] Wind gathered
in any cavities of the body, caufed by
indigeilicn and a grofs internal perfpiration ; which is therefore difcuded by

The ftemoeft of his prefence

his houfe in repair,

or invalidates.

FLA'TUS.

2.

would keep

attend every little breach or yKitti,
mediately, elfe time alone will bring all to ruin. Stiift.

and overcome, bein^ iv^xJlaluQus nor loathfouie \ ar.J To I'cudeth it to the mclcnteiy veins, and,
being jpcjing, it hclpcth down urine.
bacon

;

that

Kill oven full oiflavms, Ginny pafs
not for flcep,
To-morrowthy fatherhis w.ike-day will keep. Tuffir,

Dryden.

Whether the nymph (hall break Diana's law.
Or fome frail China-jarreceive a^.j^'.
Pofc.

;

baked in a difh.

Should gape iinmenfe, and rufhing down, o'erwhelm
this nether ball.

^« French

;

A fort of cuftard ; a pie

Dtitch.]

•f/ff>'<',

itihall.

digctt

downwards

Flawn. »,/. [plena, Saxon

And with a mighty _/jw the tiaming wall, as once

to expel ; and all purgers have in them a raw fpirit
of wind, which is ihe priiKipal caufe of tenlion in
the ilomach and beliy.
Bacon.

Fla'tuous. adj. [from flatiu,
Windy ; full of wind.

FL E

As if great Atlas, from his height,'

Frtnch
Windinefsj fulnefs

[flatmate,

of the ground, to cover their cabins.

FlaVer, ». /.

[from/rty.]
off the Ikin of any thing.

FLEA.w./.
Jeacf),

Saxon;

[plea,

Scottifti.

Svi/l.

He that ftrips.
Diitch;,

t'/oyt.

A fmall red infeft re-

markable for its agility in leaping, which'
fucks the blood of larger animals.
While wormwood hath feed, get a handful or twain,To five agajiift March to m:ikCji?rj to refrain
Where chamber is fweeped and wormwood is (Irown,
'Soflea for his life dare abide tobcknown.
Tvjfcr.

A valiant jfea that dares eat his brcakfafton the

lip of a lion.

SBalefpcire's Henry V.
Fleas breed principally of llraw or mats, where
there hath been a little moilturc. Bacon's Nat. lift.

To Fi, ea. 1). a. [from the noun.]
from fleas.

To clean

Fli'abane. It./, [/fz-fl and ia»<>.]

A

planf.
hath undivided leaves, which, for the muft
are g uiinous, and have a ftrong fccnt
the
cup of the flower is for the mod part fcaly, and of a
cylindrical lorm
the (lower is compofed of many
florets, which are fticceeded-by feeds with a downy
fubftance adhering to them.
MilUr.
It

part,

:

:

Fle'abu E.

I

,

r J.

FLL'ABiT.NO, }»•/•!:>»

%

t

1

""'I ^''^-3
I.

Red

F LT

the vvings; to have a fluttering motion.

obfequious.
Phocvon wis a

Harm,
'

DuAile; manageable.

'

i

v^ foeyer a chiU

Unier whofe

'

The wreath of radiant fire,
Shakeff, King Lear.
Onfl'tckfring Phabus' front.
' Twas ebbing darkncfs,
paft the mid' of night,
And Phofpher, on the conSiics of the light,
Promis'd the fun, ere day began to fpring;

m»n of great (aatity, and no

yttfi JlexibU la ihe ttillof the pfople.

3.

is

.

pu« to be

taught, during the tender and Jiexiblc years of hi'
life, it Ihould be one who thinks Latin and lanLxke.
guage the leaft part of education.

Aaiflkk'riitg on her neft made

And with her feather'd arms embrac'J the dead;
"fata flickering to his pallid lips (he drove
Dryjen.
To print a kifs, the Ia(t cITay of love.

Rogers,

Fli'er.

be bent^ not brittlcnefs;
eafinefs to be bent ; not ftiffnefs ; pliantnefs; pliancy.
I will

rathei chOofe

to wear »

Xing Charles.

Pliant;
to any power or

Latin.]

\flexilis,

eafily bent ; obfequious

I fliot his

The felf-fame way.

The

1.

[Latin.]

/.

The

general

name of the raufcles which aft in con-

.Fle'xuous. aiij. \flexuofm, Latin.]
1. Winding; full of turns and meanders;

variable;

of wings.

who (brinks or fails in any matter.
To FLING, preter. flung; part, flung or

2 Ej'dt. V. 6.
Fowls, by winter forc'd, forfake the floods.
And wing their hMy flight to happier lands. Dryden,

Jhng. 'V. a. [from _/?/fo, Latin, Skinner:
according to others from flying; fo to

A flock of birds flying together.

4.

fling is lof'et flying.']

Flights of angels wing thee to thy re(t. Shakrfp.
They lake great pride in the feathers of birds, and
this ihey look from their ancellorsof the mountains,
who were invited into it by the infinite _/?.']g;/'^t of
birds that came up to the hi;h grounds.
1

Bacon.

can at will, doubt not.

Command a table in this wildemefs ;
And call (vj\U flights of angels rainiftranf,
Array'd in glory, on my cup t' attend.

The birds produced in the fame fcafon

5.

A volley

6.

:

a (hower;

The matrons_/?»«^ their gloves,
I.adies and maids their l«arfs and handkerchiefs

Upon him.

Shakeff eare' s Corinlanut.
and as (he flings
Of kings makes pealants, and of peafants Icings.
Dryden.
dart; to caft with violence.
2.
How much unlike that Heftor who return'd
Clad in Achilles' fpoils; when he, among
(hips, hkejove, his iightning^KJr^.
ihoufand
A
Deithant,

3.

Full Ihrecfcorc Scots they (lew.

Not

ufed.
Think'ft thou the Scry fever will go out

Will give place \o flexure and iow bends ? Sb. Hen.V.

Dutch;

Chevy Chafe.

Above an hundred arrows difcharged on my left
hand, pricked me like fo many needles ; and befidet they (hot anoiher flight into the air, as we do
bombs.
Swift.

SanJys,

7.

The fpace paft by flying.

8.

Heat of imagination; (ally of the foul.
Old Pindar's7?i^i/.i by him are reacht,
When 00 that gale bii wings *re Atctcbt, Dtnbem,

To fcatter.

Ev'ry beam new tranfient coburr._^/ff^r.
Colours that change whene'er they wave their wings,

At the kr^ flight of arrows fent.

;

'

'I'is fate xhiX flings the dice j

as much (hot as is

difcharged at pnce.

iybaktfp.

The pan bent the joint.
Hs mi?hiy firen.'h lies m his able loins,

[flisheren,

;

To caft from the hand; to throw.

1.

To

Milton.

as, the harvefty?/^^/ of pigeons.

Wi'h Miles blown from adulation ?

L'^cke.

Oh ingratitude, that John Bull,' whom I have
honoured with my friendlhip, ihould flinch at laft,
and pretend that he can ditburli: no more money.
Arbuthnot's Hiflory of John Bull,
2, la Shake/peare it fignifies to fail.
If I break time, os flinch in property
Of what i f[>oke, unpitied let me die.
Shakeff.
Fli'ncher. ». /. [from the verb.]

Shakeff. Macbeth.
The fowls (hall take t.)at\{ flight away together.

The aift of bending.

a.

To (brink from any fuffering or undertaking; to withdraw from any pain or
danger.

He

Ere the bat hath flown

His cloyfter'd//gA/.

:

And when: il.cfl.xure oi liis navel joins.
4. Obfequious or fervile cringe.

Pofe.

[corrupted {torn fling.

flinching or complaining.

Removed from place to place by means

Qontrary is ihe _/f.rx»rf of the joints of our arms
and legs to that of quadrupeds our knees bend forward, whereas the fame joint ul theit hind legs

To Ftl'CKEa. *.

Sfenfer.

Drydex.

!Fle'xoiib. «./. [fexura, Latin.]
which any
.J. The form or direction in
thing is bent.

His tegs are for ncceflity, not flexure,

Flinch, v. «.

Every marlyr could keep one eye fteadily fixed
upon immortality, and look death and danger out
of countenance with the other; nor did they J?/w/>
Soulh's Serm.
from duty, for fear of martyrdom.
A child, by a conflant coL-rfe of unkindnefs, may
be accuflomed to bear v;ry rojgh ufage without

volation.

When through Arabian groves they take their_^;gi/.
Made wanton with rich odours, lofe their fpite.

of flatncs doth (hew the air beginoctl] to be untjuict.
Bacon's Natural HiJlory.

The elephant hathjoints, but none forcourtefy;

•To

Skinner.^

She to the Latian palace took hit flight. Dryd. j^n.
Winds that tempelb brew.

wc did not feel \ and the flfxuous burning

Ray,

Mean; fpiritlefs; without force.

1.

The fury fprang above the Stj-gian flood ;
And on her wicker wings, fublime through night,

fteady.

bendsbackward.

;

To mount aloft unto the cryllal (ky.

not

The trembling of a candle difcovers a wind, that

z.

Proud of a va(t extent of flintfy (incs.

For he fo fwift, fo nimble was oi flight.
That from his lower traft he dar'd to fly
Up to the clouds, and thence with pinions light

In regard to the foul, the numeroui and crooked
narrow cranies, and the retrained flexuous rivulets
.of corporeal things, are all contempiiblc.
Digby,

not ftraight;

Weak; feeble; without ftrength of texture,

The aft of ufing wings

3.

:

nufafturers.]
I.

running from

Purfu'd htr flight, hex flight increas'd his lire. Pofe.

tortuous.

3.

or

"[

S'U-iJ't,

As eager of the chace, the maid
Beyond the fbreft's verdant limits ftray'd;
Pan faw and lovM, and burning with delirc,

have the flexor mufclcs fo ftrong
that they are always bowing and cringing, might
in fome meafure be correAed by being tied down
Ariulbnot,
upon a tree by the back.

2.

flying

Shakeff eartt

{(xom fight.

z. Wild; full of imagination.
Fli'msy. tiJj, [Of this word I know not
any original, and fufpoft it to have crept
into our language from the cant of ma-

He think;, hyfligbt his mitlrtfsmult be won,
And claims the priie becaufe he beft did run. Dryii.

Flatterers who

•thcrwife

of

adt

ailj.

Thcfl^ghtJy purpofe never is o'crtook,
Unlefs the deed go with it.
Shakeff. Alacbetb,

That Itrcngih he waded in i^nohltfligbt. Dcnham.

trafting the joints.

/

fellow of the felf-fame_^/^4;

Fleeting; fwift.
Time, thou aotlcipal'ft my dread exploits

1.

danger.

2.

Pity caufeth fomeiimes tears, and ^flexion or caft
Bacon* s Natural HiJiory.
of the eye afide.

Bending;

my fchool-days, wheil I had loft one (hafr,

Fli'ghtly.

part of a

Turn'd fo quick, you fcarce could fee't,

Bacin's Natural Hijiory.

would be made.

Stake/)). Coriulanus.

Flight, a. J. [from To^y.]

Ibomjon.

A turn towards any part or quarter.

2.

In

I

And now, too late, he wilhes for the fight.

th' aerial tumult fwells.

tt.

;

machine ^hich, by being put into a more rapid motion than
the other parts, equalizes and regulates
the motion of the reft ; as in a jack.
Tht flier, tho't had leaden feet,

That

2.

Fi.e'xion. n.f. [fiexio, Latin.]
The aft of bending.
1
2. A double; a bending ; part bent; joint.
Of a finuous pipe that may have fome io\i\ Jlexiotn^

ILE'XOR.

,1

carry the parliamenury power along with them.
King Charles.

,

trial

,

Now thefliirs from and forfakers of llieit places,

E very^i-AT/'A wave

3.

.

Not for ihcflitrs.

impulfe.
Obeys the bUft,

The power of flying.

'Tis for the followers fortune widens them.

manageablenefs,

t\ii fiexlblenffs of the former part of a man's age,
not yet grown up to be headftrong, makes it more
Lacic.
governable.

fLE'xiLE.

TiJlolfoH..

10.

away.
..
The gates ate ope, now provegood feconds

Facility ; obfequioufnefs ; compliance.

adj.

/.{(torn [fly.
,,-.

crown of thorns,

Keep thofe (lender aerial bodies feparated and
ftretchcd out, which othcrwifc, by reafon of their
Vsyh.
fiexihler.ejs and weight, would flag or curl.
\. Duftillty;

71.

not only the utmoft pitch of impiety, but
the Ki^heH flight of folly, to deride thefe thiflgj.
It is

One that run»a,w»/j s^ fugitive; a tun^

1.

'Temple,

grcatnefs.

,

than to exchange that of gold for one of lead,
whofe cmhiiei^fXli/eiffs Ihall be forced to bend.

.2.

U

Drydeit.

This was a piiuciplc mxmfltxibU to their purpofe

1. Poffibility to

I'ofe.

g. Excurfion on the wing.
there were any certain height where the
flights of ambition end, one might imagine that
the inierefts of France were but to conferveitsprefent

Ihort e(fay» to ling.

At all her ftretch her little wings fhe fpread,

forms and purpofes.

Fw'xi Bt E K E««., n. f, [itQVaJlexible. ]

!

Jhe tunejful lark i(lie>idy ftretch'd her wing,

That may be accommodated to various

4.

He (hewed all the (Ireich of fancy At ohm; aod if
he has failed in fome of \\\iflighti, it was becaufe
Poj^e,
he attempted every thing.
Strange graces ftill, andflrat^erjf/gi/* (he had;
Pofe.
Was jull not ugly, and wa« juft nol mad.
Trufl me, dear good humour can prevail.
fail.
and
(creams
and
fcolding
When airs ani flights,

To flutter; to play

j:liccenian, Saxon.J

complying;

2. -Not rigid; nbt inexorable;,

F L I

FL I

•>

Pofe.

To drive by violence.

4.

A

heap of rocks, falling, would expel the waters
out of their places with fuch a violence as to fling
them among the highell clouds.
Burnet's Theory.
5.

To move forcibly.
The knight feting his habitation reduced to fo
fmajl 4 corapafs, oidCKd all his apartments to be

flun% ojien.

Addifon't SfeOator.

6.

T

A pointed J?/*/)! rock, all bare and black.

To caft

6.

I

:
in an ill fenfe.
know thy gen'rous temp«r

Full of (tones.

2.

laying them on heaps,

is

bably into a worie.
Squalid fortune, into hifentUJloig,
Doth fcom the pride of wonted ornaments.

To ejeft

To YhXtiC trway.

Sfen/tr.

Cromwell, 1 charge thee, Jliitg a-aay ambition ;
Shake/peart.
By that fin fell the angels.
9. To Fling dtmiti. To demolilh; to ruin.

mountains, that
they overturn and flitg dnun feme of thofe which
H'ood-ward.
»vere before Handing.
baffle in the chace ;
to. To FLitic off.

Thefe are

from

fo far

raifing

To

to defeat of a prey.
Thefe men are too well acquainted with the chace

"

^

'

Mdifon'tSptamtor,

'

gafcar, with

1

fome drunken funburnt whore, over a

fly

thority, probably derived ftotnJiip-Jiap.'\

Nimble; moveable.

1.

It is

ufed only of

AJdifon.

fully voluble or ^//>/)u»r.

Dick the fcavenger

Sbakejfearc.

flirts from his cart the mcd ia Walpole's face,
Sivifl.

Fling, n. J. [from the verb.]
I .

A throw

A gibe; a fneer, a contemptuous remark.

;

a caft,

But has Wiijiing at the poor wedded pair. Adiifon,

who love to have ^ftitg

I,

A

is

various.

It

ftrike fire with ftcel.

is

well

known

to

Hill on FoJJlli.

Searching th< window for a^/a/, I found
Sbakcfpeare^j jfuilui Cafar.
This paper.
Love m'-lis the rigour which the rocks have bred
ClcaziUvJ.
fif:i:i will break upon a featlicrbed.

and the fame rclrclliiiig
vinuc in fire kindled by a fpark from a Jl'mt, as if
it wert kindled by a beam from the fun.
Scjuti't Sfrmens.
Take (bit, and Uj jaoTjfini edg'd weapon by.
Dtyde».
I'll fetch quick fuel from the neighb'ring wood.
And fltike the fparkling_/?;Vi/, and drefs the food.

There* is

tlie

fame

Any

or

am none of hisT^rr/ gills; I am

none of his Ikains males.
Several yo\in% flint sbout town
call us out of the talliionable world.

SbakiffCiirc.

among
A
women.
A mullin flounce, made very full, would give a
P.>pc.

very i%\cziti\tflirtaiibn air.

[from To fleet; or from
flitttr, Danilh, to remove.]
1
To fly away.
-v.

n.

I.ikeft it fccmeth, in my fimple wif,
IJnio the fait funlhine in Summer's <lay.
That when a dreadful ftonn away \i flit.

proverbially

Might tender make.

iihak,

Fli'nty. adj. [fromy?/«/.]
ftrong.

Tyrant cuClom

Hath made x\\tfiinly and fteel couch of war
My ihrice-Jriven bed of down.
Hhakefp. Oibtllo.

Vol. I.

winged

[pUt, Saxon, fcandal.]

a fault;

a failure; a defert.

/.

[eorrupted

from

flax.]

fur ; (oft hair.

;

With bis loll'd tongue he faintly licks his prey;
His warm breath blows her flix up as (he lies:
She trembling creeps upon the ground away.
And looks back to him with beleeching eyes.
Drydeis,
ft,/.

A plant.

To fwim on the furface of the water.
When the fea was calm, all boats alike
Shew'd mallerlhip in fl'^ating.
Sbak/p.
The ark no more now_^5tfrr, but fcems on ground,
Faft on the top of fome high mountain fix'd.
Milton.

That men, being drowned and funk, io float the
when their gall breaketh, are popular

ninth day,

Bro%un.

aflirmatious.

Three bluft'ring nights, borne by the fouthern blaify
Dryden.
\floatcd\ and difcovcr'd land at lafl
His roiy wreath was dropt not long before.
Borne by the tide of wine, mi floating on the floor.
Dryden,
On frothy billows thoufands^oa/ the fiream.
Pbilips.
In cumb'rous null.
Carp are very apt to float away with frclh waterMortimer*
move without labour in a fluid.
2.
Wh.it divine monllcrs, O ycgods, wt:rc thefe
That^&<ir in air, and fly upon the fea";
Dryden.
Swift they deltend, with wine to wing conjom'd,
Stretcfi their broad plumes, andflo.it upon the wind.
Pope.
!

Sfinfcr.

Throw my heart
Againrt \Sv-Jlini and hardnefs of my fault.

the

To

apitijcr.

Your tean, a heart o(^iiti

;

;

P/al.

».

Down

AdJijon.

A quick

Fi irta'tion. »./. [from _/?/>/.]
fprightly motion.
cant word

To Fi IT.

It,/.

An offence

The bat

had a defign to

Through the broad world doth fpread hisgoodly ray.

Made of flint;

Fli'ttinc.

1.
Bits Jtinfotfx Cyfjtes.

3. A pert young hufley.
I

S'wift.

the prefcnt with a
Addifon.

To FLOAT, -v. ft, [flotier, French.]
,

For a lliter or a (hitt.

hard.

I.

and mou/e.]
moufe.

fit

Fli'xwood.

Have licence to play.
At the hedge a flirt,

Scurvy knave,

fometimes accompanies

bottle.

A fudden trick.

2.

force

thing eminently

He

AddiJ'on's SftCtator.

Prior.

2.

Cut out large dices to be fry'd.

Before yoti pafs th' imaginary fights
While the fpread fan o'erlhade* your clofingeyes.
Then give one flirt, and all the vilion 8ic«. I'ufc.

It is ufeful in glaff-

making.

A_;?/Vf £ of bacoti oil' the hook.

In unfurling the tan arc fevcral little ^/V/r and

:

fr/.e

Dryden*s jjuv.

While he from out the chimney took

vibtations, as alfo gradual and deliberate openings.

Hone,

femi-peliucid

If they had frelh meat, 'twas delicious fare.

Flix.

A quick elaftick motion.

1.

compofad of
cryftal debafed, of a blackilh grey, of
one fimilar and equal fubftance, free from
veins, and naturally invefted with a
It is fometimcs fmooth
whiti(h cruft.
and equal, more freq^uently rough -its

1.

A fait ix^j flitcb of bacon to prepare

Thou tellell my fliltings, put my tears into thy

Flirt. »./. [from the verb.]

He who throws.
2. He who jeers.
FLINT. »./. [clinr, Saxon.]
1.

But hcktofore 'twas thought a fumptuous feaft.

fteady and fluttering.

Svi'ft.

[phcce, Saxon; flycke,
French, Skinner,\

/.

Jleche, foche,

On birthdays, feflivals, or days of ftate,

Dorftt.

To jeer; to gibe at one.
To run about perpetually; to be un-

z.

».
;

The fide of a hog falted and cured.

To Flirt, -k. v.
I.

Both at fenate-houfe and king.
Thought no method more eommodioui
Than to Ihew their vices odious.
Fli'ncer. ». /. [from the verb.]

Danilh

Fli'ttermouse. ». /. \jvefpertilio ; from

Permit fome h.ippier man

To kifs your hand, ox flirt your fan.

No little fcribbler is of wit fo bare,

;

In poifon and in blood, of malice and defpighr.
F.iiry S^een.

flitcb of bacon-

To move with qoicknefs.

2.

And in his hand two darts exceeding ^.V,
And deadly lli3r[->, he held whofe heads were dight.

Flitch.

2. Pert; petulant; waggifli.

Turr'd wild in nature, broke their ftaU!,/<"'g

Not in nfe.

quick.

An excellent anatomift promifed to diffeft a wo-

Tbomjin.
Away vi\[hjlifl>ant epilogues.
Fli'ppantlv. adv. [from the adjeflive.]
Tillai/on.
In a flowing prating way.
2. To Fling tut. To grow unruly or out- To FLIRT, w. a. \iikmner thinks it formed
rageous : from the att of any angry horfe
from the found.]
that throws out his legs.
To throw any thing with a quick elaf1
Duncan's horfes,
tick motion.
out.

z.

Her flitting parts, and clement unfound.
Fairy S^ueen.

man's tongue, and examine whether there may not
be in it certain juices, which render it fo wonder-

Contending 'i;ain(l obedience.

Himfelf uphigh he lifted from the ground.

And with rtrong flight did forcibly divide
The yielding air, which nigh too feeble found

He ftopt at once the palTage of his wind.
And the fi-ce foul to fliltivg air refign'd. Drydcn.
f LIT. adj. [from y&f/.J Swift ; nimble ;

into vio-

Began to kick, and fliig, »nJ wince,
Hudlirai.
As if W had been belide his fenfe.
Their confciences are galled by it, and this makes
them wince aaijlixg as if they had fome mettle.

To be flux or unliable.

4.

Fli'ppant. a^'. [A word of no great au-

the aft of fpeech.
;

Dryden'i .tSir.
Fear the j lift gods, and think of Scylla's fate!
Chang'd to a bird, and fcnt to flit in air.
Pope.

Dennis.

can o(J!if.

To Fling, i/. «r.

To flounce ; to wince to
lent and irregular motions.
The angry bead

Which farten'd, by the foot, the flitting bird.

Gratitude,

to be fluKr ojfby any falfe fteps or doubles.

>

He made a glancing Ihot, and mifs'd the dovej,Vet mifs'd lb narrow, that he cut the cord

Through 7y/«/;> Tartar's bofom, would peep forth.
Sbakrffeari.
And anfwcr thanks.
Flipp. »./. [A cant word.] A liquor
much ufed in fliips, made by mixing beer
with fpirits and fugar.
The tarpawlin and Iwabber is lolling at Mada-

To flutter; to rove on the wing.

3.

Hard of heart; cruel; favage; inexorable.

3.

to difmifs.

;

no good hulbandry.
Bacon's Natural Uijliry.

Hooker.

into fome other.

The gathering up of flints \n Jllnty ground, and

To force into another condition, pro-

8.

Fairy Queen.,
Unto her native prifon to return.
that the fouls of
It became a received opinion,
men, departing this life, did flit out of bne body

D,jdc«.

Addifon't Cats.

It ftraight takes lire.

SoliarJly he the flitted life doe* win.

Grew cibbous
from behind the mountain's back.
^

:

Fling but the appearance of dilhonour on it,
7.

F L O

F L I

F L I

2.

To remove j to migrate.

In Scotland it

from one place
quarterday, or the ufusl

is ftill ufed

for removing

to another

at

3.

term.
With the frail flclh

;

To pafs with a light irregular courfe:
perhaps miflaken for fleet or flee.

His fnidging gholl did Orivc
at laft 11 flitted is,

IWbiilwt the fojls do die of meu tliat live amifs.
.

Fla,tting villous m.ikc not deep imprcflions enough
to leave

ill

the mind dear, diliinO, laiting ideas.

Locke,

I'airy ^ueeii.

5

G

To

FLO

FLO
7» Float,

Proud Piftolus/co/i the fruitful lands,
Drydtn's JEn.
like a great town
Adiijon on liuly.

at a diftanc*,

Venice looki,

Mn

The Trojan youth about the captive_^c*,

'Now fmoalc$ with Ihow'rs the jaiftjf mounuin-

To wonder, or to pity, or to mock.

Denbam.

People do not Jljck to courts fo

much for their

groundi

KsAfioaui fields lie undidinguilh'd round.

Lo

majefties fervice, as for makmg their fortunes.

roft.

The vaft parterres a ihoufand hands Ihall make;
Cobhun comes, iaijMit them with a lake.
'

L'Eflrange.

To Flog. %:

that with us con-

Our truft in the Almighty is,

Haottr.
tentions are now at their higlieft fial.
There is fome difpofiiion of bodies to rotation,
particularly from Eaft

to

Weft; of which kind we
and refloat ol the I'ci is,

it proved

ahakefpeare.
His dominion (hall be alfo from the one fea to
the other, and from the^O'ii/unto the world's end.

All dwellings elfe

/Vooi/overwhelm'd, and them with all their pomp
Deep underwater roU'd; fea cover'd fea.
Milton's Paradife Loft.
Sea without (liore.
Arcadia's flow'ry plains and plealing Jloods.
Dryden'i Virgil.

L'Efiiungc.
;

With odci JIaJi' the Handing water ftrow,
tH mafly ftones make bridges, if it flow. Dryden.
which the angler
3. The cork or quill by
limcs cafting a little of it into the place where your

Ditvics.

When went there by an age lince the gmt flood.
But it was fam'd with more than with one man !

FLOCK, n. /. [plocc, Saxon.]
1. A company; ufually a company of birds
She that hath a heart of that fine frame.

1;.
a. [from the noun.]
To
deluge ; to cover with waters.
Where meadows are flooded late in Spring, roll

To Flood.

herds, which arc of oxen.
The cattle ia the (Sclds, and meadows green,

them with a large barley-roller.

Thofc rare and folitary ; thefe \njl'.cks

Flo'odcate. «./.

and in broad herds uiifprung.

Mortimer.

\Jiooi iwA gate.'l

France has a (liccp by her, to (hew that the riches
of the countrj- contadsd cbieSy injiocki and pailu-

great floodgate of forrow, whereof her heart could

A body of men.

not abide U>e violent ilVuc, (he funk to the ground.
Sidney.
Vet there the fteel (laid not ; but inly bate

The hejthen that had fled outoljudea came to
Nicanor by flocks.
y Mjc. xiv. 14.
A lock of wool.
4. [Kromyifc<Ttti."l

Deep iit h'ufltfli, and opened wide a ni floodgate.

A houfe well-furiii(h'd (hall be thine to keep;

Ms

Spenft r.

His youth, and want of experience in maritime
had fomcwhat been (hrewdly touched, even

* i:«n ''««' n»Jf "kT-

Dryden.

T» Flock, t-. n. [from

To

the noun. J

gather in crowds or large numbers.
Many young genilcmen flock to him every
and fleet ihc time carclcll}.

day,

Shakfj'fear<.

to

Addifl,n,

TsFlop. -v. a. (fromyfo/.]

nerves caufe ihe

Burnet.

wings with noife; to play with any noify
motion of a broad boay.

A blackbird was frighted almofl to death with »
hu^c flipping kite that flic Ciw over her head.
Flo'ral. titf/.

[floralis,

Relating

to Flora, or to flowers.
Let one great day

To celebrated fports and floral play
Be fet alide.

Prior,

Flo'rence. »./. [from the city i7ff«»f<f.J

A kind of cloth.

Diff,

Flo'ren. »./. [So named, {zy s Camdeu^
becaufe made by Floreut/ttes.}
A gold
coin of Edward IIL in value fix fhilliugs.
Flo'ret. n. f. \fleurette, French.]
fmall imperfeft flower.

FLO'RIJ). adj.

[Jloridm, Latin.]
Produftive of flowers; covered with

t.

Bright in colour; flulhed with red.
Our beauty is in colour infrriour to many flowers {
and when it is molt florid and gay, three fits of an

2.

ague can change it into yellownefs and leanncfs.
Baylor's Rule of living boly.
The qualitic] of blood in a healthy (late are to
he florid, when let out of the vcilel, the red part
congealing ftrongly and foon.
Ariutbnol.

3. Eml)clii(hed ;

fplendid ;

with

brilliant

decorations.
'Vhefloiid, elevated, and figurative way is for
the paftions;. for love and hatred, fear and anger,
are begotten in the foul, by fliewing their objeAs out
of their true proportion.
Dryden.
How did, pray, tht florid youth offend.
Whole fpcech you took^ and gave it to a friend ?
Pope.

Flori'dity.»./. [ftoiD florid.]

Frefhnefs

from the good
Floyer,

Flo'ridness. «. / [ixomflorid.']
I. Frefhnefs of colour.

FLOOR. //./. [plop, plojie, Saxon.

YLov.i'rt.t.ovs.adJ. [/or//>r, Latin.] Produflive of flowers.

The pavement

a pavement is alwaj's
offtonc, the floor of wood or ftone; the
:

on which one treads.

feit afflidhon,

\

Latin.]

z. Einbellifliment ;

His Itepmoilicr, making all her gcftares counteriayalmoft gro\elinj upon the yfroi- of
her cbambei.
Hidney.

arm's motion, upon its iclillance they Jiock from
oUicr (.atu ol the bod^ 10 ovcfwmt it.
J->'S^J-

To clap the

The broad part of the anchor which
takes hold of the ground.
flounder; a flat river fiih.
2.

part

Hacon.

and afterwards worked

There is a floriiliiy jn the face
digeftion of the red part of the blood.

I.

fome Grange bealt ; no,
you, as if it were to
laith he, it is to lee a man which Diogenes fought
fee

powder,

of colour.

A

aA/jc, iii, 18.
neial I'upplicaiion.
Stilpo, when the people flocked about him, and
that one faid, TJie people coitic wondering about

the fpints fwellin? the

ground

into mortar.

1

Others ran Jl'^cking out of their houfes to the gc-

Secin!!

brick,

before the (I'tices mifl'^gates of popular liberty
were yet let open.
H'oiion.
The rain defcended for forty days, the catarads

Floor, n. /. \j>flug, a plow, German.]

Knoliei^i Hifiery

Bottom;

pavement.
The flooring is a kind of red plaifter made o(

fervice,

or floodgates of heaven being opened.

V'pon the return of the 3mba(r.tdors, the poor of
matter's houfe.
all (oiaflockid together to the great

with his lanthorn at noon-day.

is

As if the opcnmg of her mouth had opened fome

Aadijtjn.

And, for tfioik

Gate

or fliutter by which the watercourfe
clofed or opened at pleafure.

MlltoK.

3.

2 Cbron. xxxiv.

Floo'ring. ». /. [from ^5«n]

flowers.

Thofe that have the good fortune of mifcarrying,
or being delivered, efcape by means of their floods,
Har-jcy,
revelling the humours from their lungs.

Hath kill'd the /ii/t of all alTeaions elfe
SLaki/p. T-welfib Nigbl.
That live in her.
2. A comp.my of (heep, diftinguilhed from

rage.

Hewn ftone and timber xafloor the houfes.

Catamenia.

5.

To pay this debt of love but to a brother.
How will the love when the rich golden (haft

To

a,

<v.

A

Sbakefpeare,
1 1 is commonly opinioned that the earth was thinly
inhabited before the ^cci/.
Brown.

or beads.

I'ailuriDg at once,

The general deluge.

4.

"Jenfin.

[from the noun. J
cover the bottom with a floor.

We fcek to know the moving of each fphere.
And the ftrange caufe o' th' ebbs ix\i floods oi Nile.

the furface.

The hindrance to ftay well is the extreme length

Floor, or the fecond, hath erefhd noi:s.

To Floor.

the

fwelling of a river by rain or inland flood.

Flo aty. adj. Buoyant and fwimming on

Ruth.

L'Eflrangf..

;

Flow; flux; not ebb; not reflux ;

3.

Mortimer.

the ijirelhing

Aftory; a flight of rooms.
He that building ftays at one

2.

Sbak. R. HI.

A

of a (hip, efoecially if (he htfoatj, and want IharpRjlcigh.
nefs of way forwards.

He winnoweth barley to-night in

an inundation.

thisgreat^not/of vifiters.
Shakffpeaie.
By iniitn floods, and fall of waters,
Buckingham's army is d^pers'd and fcatter'd.

H'ulton.
fcai fwims.
cant word for a level.
i;
Banks are mcafurcd by the foat or floor, which
_

;

You fee this confluence

You will find this to be a very choice bait, fome-

eighteen foot fquare and one deep.

A deluge

2.

difcovers the bite of a fi(h.

is

:

P/alm Ixxii. 8.

Or thence from Ki^erflood unto Atlas mount.
The kingdoms of Almaniot, Fei, and Sus. Milton.

iJiMi of weeds and rulhes.

A paffage for the weary people make

Is thick inlay 'd with patens of bright gold
There's not the fmalleft orb which thou behold'ft.
But in his motion like an angel ling;.
Still quiring to the you.ig ey'd cherubins.
Shake/p.
Theground lay ftrewed with pikes fa thick ass
'^oor is ufually ftrewed with rulhes.
Hayviard.

floor.

food.

They took it for a (hip, and, as it came nearer,

Fairy Sluttn.

Look how l)\z floor o( lieav'n

A

fwim upon the water.
but

But all a deep defcent as dark as hell.

l^atin.]

ufed by Spenfer.
FLOOD, v.f. [plob, Saxon ; Jtot, French.]
body of water ; the fea ; a river.
J.
What need the bridge much broader than the

Anybody fo contrived or formed as to
for a boat ;

[from flarrum,

Svift.
Th» fchoolmafler's joy is loflog.
Flong. farticip. faffinje. From Ta fling,

conceive the main _/fofl/
which is by confent of the uoiverfe, as part of the
Bmok's Nat. Hiji.
diurnal motion.

2.

a.

Tolafli; to whip; tochaftife.

Pope.

Float. »./. [from the Tcrb.]
the con1. The aa of flowing; the flux;
trary to the ebb. A fenfe now out of ufe.

Where entered in, his foot could find t\aflesr.

Each ftrongly confident of his own way.
9uekl!rrg.
Thought to gain the laurel that day.
Drjden't
Friends daily_^cr*.

And leaves a rich manure ofgoljtn Uais,
YMfliatid by a deluge.

FLO
He rent that iron door

The witj of the town came thither
'Twas ftrange to fee how ihnyflxk'd togetftef {

To covet with water.

"v. ff.

Though

ambitious elegance.

a philofopher

recJ not delight readers
with \\\ifloriJne/s, yet he may take care that he
difguft them not by flatnefs.
Boyle.

FWRIN. „./.

[French.]

made by the Florentines.

A coin

firft

That of Ger-

many is in

value 2.«. i,d. that of Spain
4;. i^d. halfpenny; that of Palermo and
Sicily 2/. (jd. that of Holland 2;.
In

FLO

FLO

chambtr the proilarj hive half
form taxed jnd allowed them tor every fubftantial
In the Imperiil

recefs.

AytJffe.

" /• {y-'irifif,

Flo'rist,

A

French.]

cultivater of flowers.

Some boranite or Jlorijls at the leaft.

Dunfiad.

Wjth fecrcl pride tlie wonders of his hand. Tbr:m.
Flo'rulent. adj. l/orii, Latin ] Flowery
bloflbming.

and the fecond a dry inijlj/culous coat.

Te Flote. 1/. a. [SeeTo/eet.]

BrmirK.

Tujir.

4.

/ [from /«./<•.] Goods that
[from^v.] Skimmed.

plunge.]

To move with violence in the water or
mire ; to ftruggle or dafti in the water.
With his broad hns and forky tail he laves
The riling furge, laijiouncei in the waves.

ir-

[fromflottnj^.] One
that is in prime or in profperity.
They count him of the grcen-hair'd eld, they mav,

The (Iream, and fmoaking,_/f3Kr/^'i/o'er his head.

For not our greatell7?o«/-i/Sfr can equal him in pow'r.

To boaft
[In

6.

;

To play feme prelude

Prltr.

You mull/foB? my infufficiency.
Sbakeffeare.
The Norweyan banners _/?<;«/ the flcy.
And fan our people cold.
Sbakrfpcare's Macbeth .
He mock'd us when he hegg'd our voices

may be_^oar;y6eJ into large works.

You neither fume, nor fret, aor flounce
SvL'ifi.
To Flounce, t;. a. To deck with flounces.
She was flounetd and furbelowed from head

H.tcon'i

4.

«. /. [from the verb.] Any
thin^ fewed to the garment, and hanging
loo(c, fo as to fwell and ihake.
Pof>e.

Down goes at once the horfeman and the horfe

fo their flattery is hardcll to be dilcovercd.

6.

Dtydert,

call'd thee then \i\nflouriJh of

Around thele fields, and fattens as it goes.

my fortune-;

2.

An oftentatious embellifhment;

The righteous daWpurifi like the palm-tree.
'

Pf. ttn.

Where eryou tread, the blulhing ftow'rs (hall rife.
,

And all ihings^arj/i, where you turn your eves.
Pope.

i. To be in a profperonsftatc.
could find example

Of tboufaaii, tiui bad ftiuck aaoinKd kings,

Dryden.
Rndlefs tears floiv down in dreams.

ambi-

With ofier floats the danding water tlrow;

Of mafly dones make bridges, ifit^ra;.
3. To rife; not to ebb.

This is iflourifli : there follow excellent parables.

Diydert.

This rivet bath thxkeflovi'd, no ebb bet«-cen.

Sbaifpeare

only bellow ihe flourijh of poetry thereon, or ihofc
commendatory conceits which popularly fct forth
the eminence of this creature.
Bro-wn.
The apprehenfitm ii fo deeply riveted into my
mind, that fuch rhcioric^} fl'jurijlet cannot at all
loofen or bru.li it out.
Afore.
Villainies have not the fame countenance, when

I o melt.

4.

Oh that thou wouldft rent the lieavens, that tlie
mountains mi%htJla-ui down at thy ptefcuce.

^
To proceed; to

V- '"iv. I.

,

5.

I'll

ifllue.

ufe that tongue 1 have : if wit/fo»c from'f,

I ftiall do good.

there are great interelh, plaufible colours, -jniflourijhei of wit and rhcterick interposed between the

L'Ellrangc.

Suiff

To run: oppofed to Handing waters.

2.

tious copioufnefs ; far-fetched elegance.

tght and tbe obj?t^.

Dryden

Fields of light and liquid ether^ow,
Purg'd from the pond'rous dregs of earth below.

We can excufe the duty of our knowledge, if we

To be in vigour; not to fade.

If 1

The god am I, whofe yellow waterjRm>f

Bravery; beauty; ambitious fplendonr.

Bacon,

Latin.]

,.,,.

tt.

1 .

poor Ihadow, painted ^uten.
The prefcntation of but what I was.
Sbakefp.
'Vheflourljh of his fober youth,
Was the pride of naked troth.
Crajbatv.

The more inform 'd, the lefs he imderftood.

I.

jeers.

rsFLOW. -v, [plopan, Saxon.]
To run or fpread as water*.

Shate/peare.

I call'd thee then

And deeper funk byflound'riag in the mud.

[floret, florc/co,

when he invites me to an internCaUmy's Sermon,
Flo'ut'er. «./. [from/e»r.] One who
old acquaintance
perate cup >

Collier,

to grace.
To bring you thus together, 'tis no da,

I

Pofe,

Drydctt,

Flo'urish. «./, [from the verb.]
1.

j

the verb.] A mock;
an infult; a word or aft of contempt.

How many jjowf and jeei-s mull I expofe myfelf
to by this repentance? How Ihall I aniwcr fuch an

;

V>o\hfl<juriJh the deceit.

Dryden.

^. n.

To adorn; to embellifli

Stvtft.

Flout. «./: [from

Sith the jullice of your title to him

Knifloundring\i\tovi the rider o'er his he^d.

He plung'd for fenfe, but fotmd no bottom there
Then writ and flounder' d on in mere dcfpair.

;

Fleer and gibe, and laugh miflout.

As they are likely fo evtr-flouriflb their own cafe,

fire-

That courfer tumbles on the fallen fteed,

With talents well etidu'd

To be fourrilous and rude
When you pertly raife your fnouC,

extirpating and debellating giants, monfters, and tyrants.
Bacon.

Like tht flounder, out of the frying-pan into the

Cami.
,
Fhundert will both thrive and breed in any pond.
Mortimer,
fo Flo'under. -v.n, \{\om flounce,\ To
ftruggle with violent and irregular motions: as a horfe in the mire.

tune, hath notfortune fentin this fool to cut off this
argument ?
Skjtefpeire.

was there never a flout or dry
blow given.*
Bacm.
She opened it, and read it out.
With many a fmile and lecring_,'7c»/.
Hudiirfs.
Their doors are barr'd againll a bitter/oj^C;
Snarl, if you pleafe ; but you fliall fnarl without.

The labours of Hercules, tha\i%h flturijied with

Flo'uvder. «./. [/_x>tJ(r, Daniih; yiuie,
Scottifh.] The name of a fmall flat fifli.

to

He would tiflc of thofc that had been at the other's

much fabulous matter j yet iiotabl) fet forth the confetK of all nations and ages in the approbation of the

Pofe.

;

Though nature hath given us wit to fiout at for.

table. Tell truly,

guage; to grace with eloquence often-

A muflin flounce, made very full, would be very

Walton's Angler.

behave with contempt; to fneer.

To adorn with embellinimcnts of lantatioufly diffufive.

agrcfable.

To FLOURISH.

•''

War with Spain.

Dryden* s yuv.
5.

Nay, oft in dreams invenlion we bellow,

To change xJiouHce, m add a furbelow.

Phillida/o»/f me.

ToYlovt. v, ». To pratSife mockery

To move any thine in quick circles or

Flounce.

Shahfp,

She railed at her, that (he Ihould be fo immodell
to write to one flie knew would_/?oa/ her.
Sbak.

And all the powers of hell in full applaufe
Flourijh'd their fnakes, and tofs'd their flaming
brands.
Crafljaiv.
Agatnd the poft their wicker (hields they crulh.
Flourish th< fword, and at the plaftron pulli.

looks like an entire
Pope.

,

Certainly he flouted us downright.

vibrations by way offhow or triumph.

to

foot i every ribbon was crinkled, and every part of
her garments in curl.
Addifon.
They have got into the fadiion al flouncing the

.

Fentcn.

All that I fhall fay will be but like bottoms of
thread clofe wound up, which, with a good needle,

Korean the plaineft word pronounce.

infult; to treat

To Flo'urish. "j. a,
To adorn with vegetable be*ity.

To adorn with figures of needle work.
3. To work with a needle into figures.

When I'm duller than a poft,

To mock; to

with mockery and contempt.

A fudden youth the groves enjov.

To move with paflionate agitation.

_.,

Frifick.]

without any fettled rule.

2.

SixJlounciiTg Flandeis mares
Arc e'en as gxxi as any two of theirs.

Chapman

,

With Itiadowy verdure _^6ai ijh'd high,

AdJifon*! Ovid,

'

To FLOUT. 'V, a. \flttyte„, Dutch; flo^-e,

to brag.]

mufick.]

n. f.

or in liisflow'r;

Pope.
y.

1.

To move with weight and tumult.

it

M'jre againft Atllcifm.

Flo'urish ER.

Impetuous fpread

Siin/ter,

petticoat fo very deep, that
eoatoflutellring.

^,^/,
They were intended only for ludicrous ornaments
of nature, like thejyoa^j/Sfj- about a great letter
that
(ignify nothing, but arc made only to delight
the eye.

regular motions.

T» FLOUNCE, -v. n. [plon/iH, Dutch, to

3.

holding the near cliaiaaers and ftourijhei of a bible
curioufly printed.

To defcribe various figures by interfering lines ; to play in wanton and

fwira without any owner on the fea.

lines

A child with delight looks upon emblems finely
drawn and painted, and takes (ome plcafure in be-

Whilft Cicero ails the part of a Aetorician, he
iai flourijles, and gives example inftcad ot
Baker.
They dilate fometimes, and flourljb long upon
little incidents, and they (kip over and but lightly
touch the drier part of their theme.
H'alls's Log.

To &im.

Figures formed by

wantonly drawn.

rule.

Such cheefes, good Cifley, yejlsiej too nigh.

I.

3.

dilates

The outward part is a thick and carnout covering,

Dryd.
curioufly or

.

ambitious copioufnefs and elegance,

or form of flowers.

;

'Tis fine, fay'll thou ; what, to be prais'd
and hang >

To ufe florid language; to fpeak with

.

Flo'sculous. aJj, [flo/cului, Latin.]
Compofed of flowers; having the nature

I,

He lards vinhflomifl^ei his long harangue

Bad men as frequently profper zni flourifl:>, and
that by the means of their wickcdiicfs.
Neljln.

.

Flo'tten, fart,

South* s Sertnoni.
Studious to pleafc the genius of the times.

With periods, points, and tropes he llurs his crimes;

He was the patron of my manhood, when 1 flourffhfd in the opinion of the world, though with
fmall advantage to my fortune.
Dryden.

And while they break

k.

Tlie fo muc!) repeated ornament an! flourijii of
their former Ipceches was commonly the trueftwo?*
they fpoke, though lead believed by them.

Shakcf^eare.

On the charm 'd eye, th' exulting^5r//?r marks

Flo'tsov.

FLO

AnSylowZ/o',/ after, I'd not do't: but (ince
Nor brafs, ror (lone, nor parchment, bears not one.
Let villainy itfclf forfwear't.
Sbutefp.
Harry, that prophefied thou (hould'd be king.
Doth comfort thcc in lleep j live thou i,-aiflourifl>,

Shahrjp. Winter' i Tale.

The knowledge drawn from experience is quite of
another kind' from tlut wbicb/otv» from fpeculation
.

ordifcourfe.

S

G a

South.

6«To

FLO

FLO

times the iamium is iniire, and ibmetimes jagged
or divided.
3d, Corniculate; that is, fuch hollow
jfi/urrj as have on their upper part a .kind of fpur,
or little horn, as the linaria, delphinum, See. and
the carniculum, or cakar, is always impervious at
the tip or point. Compounded fio^ven ate, tirft,

Crop'd are thtflovrer de luces in your arms
Ot England's coat one half is cut away.
Sbake/p.
The iris is the JImuer de luce.
Pcacban,

FLO
6.

To glide fmoothly without afperity

;

as,

a flonxing period.
This dilcourfe of CypruD, and the flowers of
thetorickin it, Ibew him to have Been of a great wit
andjlovjj'ng eloquence.
Hakrtoell c'n PnviJenct,

To write fmoothly

7.

to fpeak volubly.

;

whofe flofculi are fet
and even, as to make the furface of
the^oti'er plain and flat, which, becaufe of its round
form, will be like a difcus ; wh.ch diflc is fometimes radiated, when there is a row of petala (land-

difcous, or difcoidal ; that is,

Vitgil ii fweet »aAJl<ru/i«g in his hexameters.

Did fweeter founds adorn thyjlnvh'i tongue

Than ever man pronounc'd, or angels fung. Prior.
8. To alx>und ; to be crowded.
The dry (ireets^s-w'J with men.
Cbtfmax.
9. To be copious to be full.

which is conipofed of plain flower^*,
together in circular rows round the centre, and
whofe face is ufually indented, notched, and jagged,
as the hieracia.
3d, Vi()ular, which is compounded
of long hollow little_;?(7«j^rr, like pipes, all divided
into, large jags at the ends.
ImpeifeA finvers,
becaufe they want the petala, are called lUmineous, apetalous, and capillaceous ; and thofe Which
hang pendulous by tv>e threads, like the juli, are by

To

mourn.

Dryden.

A fuddcn plenty or abundance.

volubility

Teaching is not a jfuw of words, nor the draining
but an cflfe^al procuring that al

ot an hour-glafs ;

man know Ibmething which he knew not before, or
South.

FLO'WER. »./. [/r«r, French ;/«,/« w,
Latin.]
.

The part of a plant which contains the
feeds.

,

liembles

pipe cut off obIiqu;ly,

lollochia i zd, labiate ;

and

as

in

the ari-

with one
liponly, as in the acanthum and fcordium, or with
«wo lips, as in the far greater part of the labiate
JUiurrt : and here the upper lip is fometimes turned
upwards,^ and fo turns the convex part downwards,
as in the chamaccilTus; but ;nolt commonly the
upper lip it convex above, and turns the hollow
part down 10 its fellow Ulo.v, and reprefenu'a kind
of hclniei, or mouklhood ; and from ilicnce thcfe
are frcquentlj^cilled galleate,. cuculUte, and galenculatejfi'U'r^ ; and in this form are ihcfloTim of
the

Umijin,

^iid

this

either

auU vatticilljie plaiits.

S«me.

An extreme clarification doth fpread the fpirits fo
fmooth that they become dull, and the drink dead,
which Ought to have a XWiXe^fijiuerinr.
Bucon^i Natural Hijlory.

tVatu,

4.

To come as cream from the furface.

,

If you can accept of ihefe few obfervalions, which
have Jlotuered off, and are, as it ,wert, the bur-

The nomination of perfons to thofe places being,
fo prime

and infeparable a ^^o-u/er of his crown, he

would rcferve to hinifclf.
Clareitdorr.
This difcourfe of Cyprian, and the excellent
,^ouf rj of rhelorick in it, ftiew him to have been a
Iwcet and powerful orator.
Hakfujill.
Truth needs noJlon'rs of fpeech.
Pope.
3. The prime; the fiourilhing part.
Abs! young man, your days can ne'er be long :
\r\Jlotv*r of age you pcriih for s fong.

Pope.

mlhing of many lludious and contemplative years,
here give you them todifpofe of.

flowers.

Like tears that did their own difgrace bewail.
Shakefpcart.

So to the fylvan lodge
They came, that like Pomona's arbour fmil'd,
\i\x\\flo\v'r,ts deck'd, and fragrant fmells.

Milt.
laughs the* childifh year with fnu'icts
crown'd.
And lavilhly perfumes the fields around ;
But no fubllantial nourilhmcnt receive^,
IiiHrm the ftalks, unfolid are the leaves.
Piryd.

Then

The moft excellent or valuable prt of
any thing quintefcence.
The choice and ,^awcr of all things profitable the

Flo'wergarden, n.f. [Jl'.'iver WiA garden.

A garden in whicli flowers are principally

Thou haft (lain

cultivated.

TheJ?i.«rr of Europe for his chivalry.
Shakefp.
The French monarchy is eihauiled of ite braved
fubjcAs : iheflower of the nation is confumed in its
AdJi/cn.
wars.

That which is tnoft dillinguifhed for
any thing valuable.
He is not i\Kflo%vero{ courtefy, but, J warrant

him, as gentle as a lamb.
Flo'wer de Luce. n.f.

DiJi.

n. f.

Stood now within the pretty^o'U''«/'j eyes.

;

6.

.

\fltunt, French.] .\
flower; ft fmall flower.
Sometimes her head Hie fondly would aguifc
Willi gaudy garlands, or ire^fotui'rets dight.
About her neck, or rings of rulhes plight.
F. 3.
That fame dew, which fometimeon the buds
Was wont to fwell, like round and orient pearls.

be baked flill lofervc their necelTary want.
Spenfer.
I can make my audi( up, that all
From me back receive the^'/«i'f of all,
And leave me but the bran.
Shjtcfpeaye.
ThejJoti'frj of grains, mixed with water, will make
Arbuthn^t on Aliments.
afortot'glue.
But by thy care twelve urns of wine be fill'd,
Next thcfe in worth, and firm thofe urns be feal'd
Be twice ten mealurcsof the choicertj?3«r.
Prepar'd, ere yet dcfcends the evening hour.
Pope^s Odxffey.

Pfalms do more briefly contain, and more movingly
exprefs, by reafon of their poetical form.
Hooker,

.

Flo'weret.

he edible part of corn ; the meal.
The bread I would have \a floiuer, fo as it might

5.

I

Milton.

To Flo'wer. 'v. a. [from ihe. noun.] To
adorn with fiftitious or imitated flowers.
Flo'werase. n.f. {Uomjio'uxr.'] Store of

'1

4.

a

new bottled beer.
Thofe above the v^ater were bell, and that beer
did fiovicr a little ; whereas that under water did
not, though it were frelh.
Bacon.

Anornatnent; an embellifhment.

2.

Such are reckoned ^iUSKJIj~.vcis which have a
petala, a ftamen, apex and ftylus ; and whatever
j&tirr wants either of thcfe is reckoned impetfedt.
Vtt\t& fto'uxrt are divided into fimple ones, which
are not compof'.-d of other fmallcr, and which
ufually have but one fingle ftile; and compounded,
which confift of many tiofculi, all making but one
JlotViT,
Simple Jli-wers are monopelalous, which
have thebodj^of \.Ut ^juvr all of one entire leaf,
though fom:times cut or divided a little way into
many feeming pctala, or leaves ; as in borage, bugloe: or polypet.ilous, which have dillinil'petala,
»nd thofe tilling ofF fingly, and nM altogether, as
the feeming pctala of monopctalous_/S^«urrj always
do: but ihofe are further divided into uniform and
difibrm Jhuiert: the former have their right and
left hand parts, and the fuiward and backward parts
all alike; but the dilfbrm have no fuc]^ regularity,
as in the Jltivrri ai fage and dea<lneltle.
A mo.
nnpetalous i\Sotm flower is likewife further divided into, firll, femi-fiftular, whofc upper part re-

:

Tliiscaufedetain'd me all my Jiotu' ring vouth.

Within a loathfome dungeon there to pine.
Shakc/p. Henry VI.
3. To froth; to ferment; to mantle, as

Afilton.

carnations.

of

tongue.

1

I wandered here and there
For heat of heedlefs luft me did fo (ling,
That I of doubted danger had no fear.
Spenfer,

We

'

toknow itbetter.

fpring.

I-ike fwallow fwift,

Beauteous^<s7('Vr why do we fpread
Upon the monuments of the dead.
Coivley.
Though the fame fun with all diffufive rays
Bluih in the rofe, and in the diamond blaze.
paife the ftronger effort of his power.
And always fet the gem above ihtflo'wer.
Pope.
If the blolTom of the plant be of mod importance,
we call it i. Jio-wer^ fuch are dailies, tulips, and

The noble power of fufJcring bravely is as far
above that of cnterpridng greatly, as an unblemilhed
confcience and inflexible refolution are above an accidental ^:>tv of fpirits, or a fudden tide of blood.
Pope.
of diftion ;

.

To

The nymphs in twilight (hadeof tangled thickets

Broivrt^s Vulgar Errors*

A ftream

M

Expire before \.\\tflD'u;ers in their caps.
Dying 01 erc they licken.
Sbalfpeare') Macbeth.
VI Ml Jlow' r interwoven trelTes torn.

The ebb of tiies, and their myfterious^ow.

3.

Op'ning their various colours.
Milton.
,rk well thejlow'iing almonds in the wood,
Ifod'rous blooms the bearing branches load.
Dryd. Georgi
To leaflefs Ihrubs x\xtjl(nv'riiig palms lucceed.
And od'rous myrtle to the noifome weed.
Poft.
be in the prime; to flourifli.
2.
Wiiilome in youth, vihcn Jlower'd my yoinhful

Good men's lives

Some, from the diurnal and annual motion of the
earth, endeavour to folve the_^'>tfj and motions of
thefc Teas, illuftrating the fame by water in a bowl,
that rifes or falls according to the motion of the

2.

Fairy ^uecn.

Then herbs of every leaf, thatfuddcn^Jtt'er'./,

amentaceous, and we call them
cats-t.iil.
The term campanircrmis isufed forfuch
as are in the (liape of a bell, and infundibuliformis
Miller.
for fuch as are in the form of a tunnel.

;

We as arts elements Ihall underiLind.

Forever with a^oru'r/wj garland crown'd.

Tournefort called

Flow, n f. [from the verb.]
The rife of water not the ebb.
I

to

Paiiy Siutrn,
Sacred hill, whofe head full high,
Is, as it were, forendlefs memory
Of that dear Lord, who oft thereon was found.

fet

LOW . <v, a.
overflow; to deluge.
Watering hops is fcarce pra>£ticable, unlefs you
hfive a ftrcam at hand to_fi,iw the ground.
Morilmer't Itiijbandry

vellel.

To be in flower; to be in bloffom;

And in !ic(h Jlotvering fields tliemfclves tofport.

planifolius,

To

French; or

So forth they marched in this goodly fort,
To take the folace of the open air,

times naked, having no fuch radiating leaves round
the limb of its dilk, as in tlie tanacetum : 2d,

:

[Jieurir,

bloom; to put forth flowers.

ing round in the difk, like the points of a ftar, as
in the matricaria, chamxmclum, &c.
and fome-

1'hcn (hall our names.
Be in their^tfu^f'/rf cuds freihty remembcrM.
Sbak. Hen. V.
There every eye with flumb'roiis chains (he bound,
And dalh'd thefi^tving goblet to the ground.
P<fe'i OdjJJiy.
1 o.
hang'loofe and waving.
He was doathed in ^ fluiu'ing mantle of green
SpeElalor,
filk, interwoven with tiowen,

•

1.

fo clofc, thick,

Dtydtn.

^'a ¥

To Flower, v. n.
from the noun,]

Shakrfpeare.

A bulbouj iris.

Miller fpecifies thirty-four fpccics of this plant;
and among them the Pcrlian ,/?i;U'er de luee is greatly
eltecmed for the fwcetneliand beauty of its variegated
flower.., which are in peilcdioain I'cbruary, 01 the
beginning of Matib.

Obfciving that this manure produced flowers in
1 made my gardener try (hofe (hells in
fiovjer garden, and I never faw better carnatii^ns or

my

the field,

flowers.

Moitimer^s Hujiandry.

,

Flo'weriness. n.f. [fmm fmi-ery .']
1. 'I"he ftate of atwunding in flowers.
2.

Floridnefs of fpeech.

i"'Lo'wERiNCBusH. »./. A plant.
Flo'wery. adj. [from /eaiYr.] Full of
flowers;

.adorned with flowers real or

iiftitious.

My mother Circe, with the fyrens three,
Amidll thejftiw'rjr kiitlcd Naiades.
Milton.
Uay'i

FLU

FLU
Fute'llim. «./. The herb SPEEDWELt.
Flu'encv. n.f. [{torn fluent.

Pofe.

mod expreiUve figures
the ferious, and pleafantries
for admirers of points of wit.
Garth.

1.

Pope.

2.

With

[from flurw.^

[yfa^, Scott.]

the name of a fifh.
Amongft thefe xViJIoivk,

to pleafe tjiofe

A flounder;

^he tide up into the frelh waters.

and

language, and hath a

Darkens the Drcets, then wander forth the fons
Of Belia!,_/f3'aii» with infolence and wine. Milton.
Is this a brlJa! or a friendly feaft ?
Or from yoi;r deeds I rightly may divine,
Unfeemlyyyi/ttM with infulence or wine.

{ftuauans,

1.

Latin.J

JIuSluani wandering humour and opinion?

To FLU'CTUATE. -y. ». {fluauo. Latin.]
I
To roll to and again, as water in agita.

tion.

2.

not malleable ; but yet

Hi'jL /it/tore.

have fome natural djlpofitions, which
have better grace in youth than in age, fuch as is a
and
luxurious
fluent
fpeech.
Bacon.
1 Ihall lay bsfore you all that's within me.
And with mofi fluent utterance. Denham's Sofhy.

Ev'n in the fight of death.

To move with uncertain and hafty mo- FLU'ID.
tion.
and, as 10 paltion mov'd,
FluH»Jiet di^aih'J.
Mllion't Paradijt Ltjl.
;

to feci

feas, or fl:icluuiing in fundi, it is now fixed and fettled in lubitantial acres and tenements.
AJdifcn.

1.

French; Uora fiuauate.]

FluElutiiiom are but motions fubfervient, which
winds, ftorms, (hores, (helves, and every interBrr,-wn.

They were caufed by the impulfes mijluauatitin
iVceJvarJ.

Uncertainty ; indetermination.
It will

not hinder it from making a profelylc of
loves JIu&iiaiitin of judgment little
enough to be willing to be eafed of it by any thing
but errour.
/;y./,.
a perfoo, that

Flve.

11. /.
[A word of which I know
not the etymology, unlefs it be derived

A

chimney to convey air,

2. Soft down or fur, fuch as may fly in the

wind.

If the place but affords

Any (lore of lucky birds.
As I make 'em toflu/h,
3.

fit

fiae to

a fettled complexion.
Ere yet the fait of mod unrighteous tears

Had left th%fliifling in her gaiiled eyes.
She married.
Sbalicfpeare's Hamlet.
Thus Eve with count'nance blithe her doty told.
in her cheek iidcmfer flufl'ing gibw'd.

But

Milton.
be more fignificant than the fudden
Cullicr.
flujhing and confulion of a blufli ?

What can

What means that lovely fruit ? What means, alas!
That blood, VjK\zh flufles guilty in your face ?

be

Dryden.

At once, array'd
In all the colours of the flufling year.

The garden glows.
4.

to (lability ; want of coherence between
the parts.
Heat fromotes fluidity very muih, bydiminidiing
the tenacity of bodies: it makes many bodies fluid,
which are not fluid in cold, and increafes (he fluidity

1.

n.

[from fluid.']

f.
quality in bodies oppofite to (tability.

parts,, that,

by the

tlijjije

ot

that texture,

the

To colour; to redden: properly to
redden fuddenly.
The glowing dames of Z'ama's royal court.
*

Addifon' s Catt),

Ciy's Trivia.
2.

To elate;

to elevate; to

give the ap-

pearance of fudden joy.
As profpcrous people, fluflied with great viftories
and fucccircs, are rarely known to confine their joys
within the bounds of moderation and innocence.
Attcrbury's Sermons.

Flush, adj.
I.

What if we (liould fay that fluidnrjl and dabiliiy de,.ci.d3 fo much upon the texture
of the

Spenfir.

Some court, or fecret corner feck.
Hot flii/h with (hame the pafling virgin's cheek.'

great

That

obfolete.

Have hcesflujh'd with more exalted charms,

Ariulhnut.

Flu'iijnkss,

Thom/oi:'s Sfring,
;

A flake of fire that flu/hing in his beard,

of tenacious liquids; as of oil, balfam, and honey;
and thereby detreafcs their refiftancc.
Ncvtoii.
too

To (hine fuddenly

Him all amaz'd.
To Flush, i". a,

I

is

Each owl out of his bufh.
Sen yf.n^on's Oii-h,
To glow in the (kin ; to produce a

colour in the face by a fudden a{flux of
blood.
It is properly ufcd of a fudden
or tran(ient hfeat of countenance; not of

Flu I'd TV. «. /. {fluidltc, Fr. from
Jitid.\
The quality in bodies oppofite

fpifljtude

to

To come in hafte.

2.

and with them, not improbably, altered the whole
coui fe of the fluids.
ArLulhnoi

A difeafe oppofite to thi<

Dutch,

[fluyfln,

and fudden expanfiou of the blood in the
ventricles, after the manner of the milk, which,
being heated to (uch a degree, doth fuddenly, and
Ray.
all at once, flufi up and run over the vclfcl.
\i fluflircs violetiffy out of the cock for about a
Mortimer's Hujbandty,
quart, and then dops.

fluide,

Any thing not folid.
[In phyfick.]
Any animal juice: as
the blood.
Conlider how luxury hath introduced ncwdifcafes

fluidity.

from fffvj <jffy. J

n.

The pulfe of the heart he attributes to an ebul-

Flv'id. ft./.
2.

The alternate motion of the water.

and are of a

-v.

lition

by heat, and the heat is big enough to
keep them in .igitatton, the bo.ly h fluid; and if it
be apt to flick to things, it b humid.
Netvtcn.

Fluctua'tion. n. f.

fmall pipe or
heat, or imoke.

FLUSH,

agitated

5. To be irrefolute; to be undetermined.

Latin

Latin;

[fluidiu,

If particles (lip eafily,

As the greatcft part of my eftate has hitherto been
of an unftejdy and volatile nature, either tolt upon

1.

To

Pbilifs.

French.]
Having parts eafily feparable ;
not folid.
Or ferve they as a flow'ry verge to bind
The fluid (kirn of that fame wjt'ry cloud.
Led It again diflilve, and (how'r the earth ? Milton.

The tempter

[Jiui'iualh,

Hurry; a violent commotion.

[from fluent.] With
volubly ; readily ; without

adj.

Sviifi.

2.

ad-v.

(^bftruftion or difficulty.

ftate;

The boat was overfet by a fudden flurry from the

Confiding in their hands, that fcd'lous drive

the motion of water.

which

n.f.

north.

To cut th' outrageousyft/^/rr; in this didrefs,

ready flow ;

agitations

A guft or ftorm of wind; a hafty blaft.

1.

not fluent, but
Bacon.

it mud do fo the next.
Ray on the Creation.
Ready; copious; voluble.

To float backward and forward, as with

a fmallnefs as renders
thofe

Catamenia.

2.

Flu'rry.

Flowing; in motion;

Flu'ently.

of fuch

flow; flus, or flux, French.]
1. To flow with violence.

Fluent, v.f. Stream; running water.

The_fiuS?uat!>rg fields of liquid air.

are

fufccptible of

keep liquors in a fluor, are mod ealily feparaled
and rarefied into vapours.
Newton's Opt.

ment,
3.

And the wide regions of the land, proc'aim
The Pow'r Divine, that rais'd the mighty frame.

2.

it is

and

them mod

in flux.
Motion being a fluent thing, and one part of its
duration being independent upon another, it doth
nut follow that becaufe any thing moves this mo-

With all the curious meteors hov'ring thfre,

of water in the bowels of the earth.

The particles of fluids, which do not cohere too
drongly,

Thofe

L.*EJlransrf.

jater.cyirregulaies.

A fluid ftate.

1.

full

ftupefied.

thing to-morrow J to change likings fjr loathings,
and to ftand wifhing and hankering at a venture,

fluttuntion,

FLUOR, n.f. [Latin.]

mafter of

Liquid.
It is

Pcfe.

how is it poflible for any man to be at reft in this

To be in an uncertain
fudden vicillitudes.

is

FLU'ENT. adj. [flucm, Latin.]

Wavering; uncertaio.
To be longing for this thing to-day, and for that

1.

mind

whoever

Affluence; abundance.
This fenfe is
obfolete.
Thofe who grow old \n fluency and eafe.
Behold him tolt on feas.
Sandys.
Cod riches and renown tc> men imparts.
Even all they with; and yet their nairow hearts
Cannot fo great 3 fluency receive.
But their fruition to a llranger leave.
Sandys

And when night

4.

Addijon on Italy.

3.

!

New parts puts on

Several datues the Romans thtmMvt!- flung into
the river, when they would revenge themfelves.

Sivift.

For thofe,
Appointed to fit there, had kft their charge,
FIvw/i to the upper world. Milton' > Paradlje Lojl.
Where, my deluded fcnfe was K3.ian flo-wn >
Where the high majerty of David's throne? PrUr.
2. Puffed; inflated; elate.

3.

Loche.

of ideas, will be
apt, infpeaking, to hefitate upon the choice of both.

confounded; properly oi fy,
1. Gone away.

adj.

a fcarcity of words; for

A kind of food made

Flung, participle and preterite oi fling.
Thrown; caft.

King Charles.

The beaux we baffle, and the learned tire. 7ickel.
The comtrion fluency of fpeech in many men,
and molt women, is owing to a fcarcity of matter,

Carrui.

f.

meal.
Milk vai flummery are very fit for children.

We reaCwi with (\K.hfiuency and fire.

fo!e, and plaice, follow

71.

by coagulation of wheatflower or oat-

men who gloried in their extemporary

vein indjueiry.

pLaVKwoRT. n.f. The name of a plant.
Flown, Participle oifly, otflee, they being

Flu'ctua.vt.

Readinefs; copioufnefs; volubility,
Ourpublick liturgy mud be cartiiered, the better

volubility; with abundance.

Flowk. n.f.

Flu'mmery.

The quality of flowing; fmoothnefs;
freedom from harfhnefs or afperity.
for the poet, morals for

The Itrcams and fountains no delight could yield.

Flo'wingly. adv.

fame parts may be made to conftilutt either a fluid
or a dry body, and that permanently too ?
Boyle.

Fluency of numbers, apd

To her the ihady grove, ^^izfir^v^ry field,

i.

FLU

Day's harbinger
Comes dancing from the Ead, and leads with her
The_yffftt''r)' May, who frr n her green lap throws
The yellow cowflip and the pale primrofe. Miilon,
O'er his fair limbs ijij-tu'ry veft he threw.

full of vigour.
He took my father grolly, full of bre.iJ,

Fre(h

;

With all his crimes bioaj blown, Ttnifujlj as May;
And how his audit ftands, who knows, fjve Hcav'n ?
Siialtcjl>rare.
i love

-

Efte«m we thefe,

1 Uve to wew cloths that ittjlufls,

celCvely.

t.

EJlratigr.

3.

V

The pulfe of the arteries is not only caufed by the
pulfation of the heart, driving the blood through tliem
in manner of a wave oxfiujh, but by the coats of the

fUgen's Sermms.

Hurry: tumult; diforder of mini.

z. Cards all of a fort.

2,

TcFlu'ster. "v. a. \ixom To _flujh.'\ To
make hot and rofy with drinking; to
make half drunk.

V Confufion; irregular pofition.

Three lads of Cyprus, noMe fwelling fpirits,

Havel to-nightjfc//?i?rV with flowing cups,
Shakefp. Othello.
And they watch too.

FLUTE. »./ [Ju/ie,/ute,¥teach; fa^te,
Dutch.]
mufical pipe ; a pipe with flops for

the fingers.
Th' oars were filver.

Fluvi.\'tick. adj.
Belonging to rivers.

The fimple and
in a

The
parts

A channel or furrow in a pillar, like the
concave of a flute fplit.
Ta Fi.uTE. f. a. To cut columns into
t,

hollows.

To take fhort flights with great agitation
As an eagle

ftirreth up her neft, futterttb over
and fpreadeth abroad Tier wings, fo the
Deut.
Lord alone did lead him.

Any flow or iflue of matter.

Eat cjftern fpice, fecure
From burning_/S'«Jrfj and hot calenture.

One that gladly will be nigh.

To wait upon each moming-figh;
to flutter in the balmy air
Of your well-perfumed pray'r.

Excrement; that which falls from bodies..

6.

Concourfe ; confluence.

Civet is tlie very uncleanly J?«Jt of a cat.

Crajhaiv.
by degrees withdrew.

']L\\e.flux of company.

Exccfs muddles the beft wit, and only

makes it
Grew.

That OIKC {o fluttered, and that once fo writ,
Pojte''!

Dutie.

Ye fpirits 1 to your charge repair;
Thtjlutl'ring fan be Zephyretta's care.
Tiiey the tall mart above the veffcl rear,

That which mingled with the body
makes it melt.
Flux. aJj. [fliixtts, Latin.] Unconftant
not durable; maintained by a conftant
fucceflion of parts.

1.

Pope.

Or teach tkejiutl'ring fail to float in air.
Pope's OJyJly.

^ To be in agitation

;

to

move irregu-

The relation being brought him what a glorious
\iflory was got, and how long we JIutlrred upon
the wings of doubtful fuccefs, he was not furprlfed.
HoivrJ's Vocal Forejl.
is

impoflible that men fhould certainly difcover

be agreement or dilcernment of ideas, whilft their
thoughts fiuiier about, or llick only \a founds of
doubtful ugni&ealioB.
Lacke.

To melt.
Tofalivate; to evacuate by fpitting.
He might falhiunably and genteelly have been

2.

South.

duelled or fluxed into another world.

Fluxi'litv. n.f. [fluxHs, LatinJ Eafinefs
of

larly ; to be in a ftate of uncertainty.

It

Shakefp. Asyou like it.

To Flux. v. a,

undulations.

feparation

of parts;

liquefaftion.
Experiments feem to teach,

poflrbility

of

fuppofcd
but accidental, or

and

fiuiditv,

or at \caitfluxility of the bodies here below.

Boytc.

Flu'xion. n.f. [flitxio, Latin.]

The ad of flowing.
2. The matter that flows.

j

Ev'n a romance, a tune, a rhyme,
Help thee to pafs the tedious time,
Which elfe would on thy hand remain;
Though ^sif«, it ne'er looks back again.
pafs fwiftly.
4.

Prior.

To

The fcouts with^m^ fpeed
RtSurn, and through the city fpread the news.
Drydtn.
Earth rolls back beneath the flying Uted,
Pope.

To move with rapidity.

5.

As ftriplings wliip the top for fport,

On the fmooth pavement of an empty court,
Tlie woidcn cnpns flies and whirls about.

Dryden,

To part with violence.

6.

Glad to catcli this good occafion,
Moll thoroughly to be winnow'd, where my chaff

And corn Ihallj^j- afunder.
Shakefpcare.
He balfas heads to fave his own, made^fy
And now, the fullan to preferve, mult die. IValler.
7. To break; to lliiver; to burft afundet
with a fudden explofion.

run away; to attempt efcape.
[In this
is properly to flee, when
fled is formed ; but the following examples fliew that they are confounded
they are confounded oftener in the prefent than in the prefer tenfe.]
Which when the valiant elf percciv'd, he leapt.
Spenfcr.
As lion fierce, upon thc_^/«g prey.
fenfc the verb

Ye (liall flee, as ye fled from before the earthZecb. xiv. 5,
quake.
Abiather efcaped iniflcJ after David, i ^'<i. xxii.
What wonder if the kindly beams he Ihed,
Rcviv'd the drooping arts again
If fcience rais'd her head.
And foft humanity, that from rebellion ^fi/.
Dryden.

that the

avcrfation of nature to vacuum is
in confequence, partly of the weight

1.

or efcape.

Behold, a frothy fubftance rife

8.

To be moved with quick vibrations or

yib, v.

To pafs away, with the idea of fwiftnefs

Be cautious, off your bottle_^/W.
Swift.
'I'o
8. [plean, Saxon; flicheu, German.]

'i'he ftate of being melted.

7.

fiulttr and froth higb.
No rag, no fcrap of all the beau or wit.

Shak.

Left and abandon 'd of his velvet friends
'Tis right, quoth he ; thus mifery doth part

To more about with great fliow and
buftle without confequence.

Man is bom unto trouble, as the fparks^ upward.

;

Halliftx.

5:

Dryden.

3.

Arhuthnot.

Dyfentery ; difeafe in which the bowels
are excoriated and bleed; bloody flux.

4.

Think you've an angel by the wings j

»

in animals whofe
and in a continual _^/<a-, can

Quinces tiopfluxes of blood.

lier young,

i.

fucceflive,

Languages, like our bodies, are in a perpetual
flux, and Hand in need of recruits to fuppiy thole
Felton.
words that are continually falling.
3.

To pafs through the air.

2.

3.

produce a deep and perfect glofs of blacknefs.
Bro-wn's Vulgar Errours.
What the dated rate of intcreft Ihould be, in the
conftant change of affairs, and flux of money, is
Locke.
hard to determine,
In the conrtituent matter of one body, turning naturally to another like body, the Hock or fund can
never be exhaufted, nor the7?«a; and alteration fenfVoodtvard.
fible.

Dry lien.

of the wings.

are

plean,

of paffing away and giving

place to others.
Whether the heat of the fun

Shak.

flatter, French.]

primary motion of fire is flux,
centre of the fuel to its

line from the

ftate

pret. fleiu or fled; part, fled or
'V.

Ere the bat hahfloiL.'n
His cloiller'd flight.
Sbakefp. Macbeth.
Fowl that may fly above the earth in the open
firmament of heaven.
Gen. 1. 20.
Thcfe men's haftinefs the warier fort of you do
not commend : ye with they had held themfelves
longer in, and not T^Jii-ff fo dangeroully abroad before the feathers of the caufe had betn grown.
Hooker,

Latin.]

[jtwvtiticia,

Harris.

to efcnfe, or to go
Saxon, and makes fltd.
They are now confounded.]
To move through the air with wings.

aiioay,

1

Dtghy.
circumference.
By the perpetual^ax of the liquids, a great part of
Arhuthn'jt.
them is thrown out of the body.

In dying notes difcovers
The woes of hopdefs lovers
Whofe dirge is whifper'd by the warbling lute.

To FLUTTER, t. n. [plorepan, Saxon,

direil

becomes equal to a

To flee is

flown.

The aft of flowing; paflage.

1.

infinite

n. [pleo5an, Saxon.
Toy?y is
properly to ufe luings, and gives flenu and

flotvn.

FLUX. n.f. [/a.v7«, Latin; _/?»x-, French.]

2.

Which to the tune of JIuies kept Itroke.
The foft complainingj?afe

To FLY.

Vibration; undulation; quick and irregular motion.
:

«f lofing focceeds to the careof acquiring.

tiuan-

an

depths of modern algebra and fluxions, are not
worth the labour of thofe who defign the learned
profelTions as the bufinefs of life.
Halts.

An infinite variety of motions are to be made ufe
there is the in^ry flutter,
of in ihe flutter of a fan
the moici\flutier, and the timorous J?a//f)-.
AJdi/on's Spiiiator.

Succcfs may give him a prefentj?K/5 of joy ; but
(hort tranfport Is over, the apprehenlion

when the

fraall

A penetration into the tbftrvfe difficulties and

Sbatcff.

Flu'tter. n.f. [from the verb.]

Ray.

arteries themfelves.

of finding an

or infinitely
being taken

which,
number of times,

To hurry the mind.
To diforder the pofition of any thing.

1.

fmall

quantity given.

phttler'd your Volfcians in Coiioli.

Never had any man fuch a lofs, cries a widower,
in iht JIuJh of his extravagancies for a dead wile.

or it ij the method

tity,

birds fuddenly roufed.
Like an eagle in a dovecoat, I

njiajh of water.

They fed, mdflutt'ring,

tities;

infinite

To drive in diforder; like a flock of

1.

The arithmetick or

analyfis of infinilcly finall variable quan-

I^'ails.

To Flu'tter. v. a.

Afflux; fudden impulfe; violent flow.
This is commonly corrupted let flajh : as,

I.

[In mathematics.]

3.

His thoughts are vet^fHtlering and wandering,
and cannot be fixed attentively to a few ideas fuc-

Arbutbnot.

Flush, n.f.

T. A

fpl/eman.
Prior.

Lord Strut was not very fli'fl' in ready, either
to go to law or clear old debts; neither could he find
good bail.

my

the fluxion increafcd, and abfcelTes were raifcd.

friends! event and clianCfr,

Produc'd by atoms from their/««'i '»i dance

CleavtUnd.
Uot prefacing old ragi with plulli.
A cant word.
2. Affluent; abounding.

4.

FLY

FLU

FLU

He oft defir'd to^ from Ifratl's throne.
And live in Ihades with her and love alone.

Prior.
I'll^' from Ihepherds, flocks, and fiow'ry plains;
From fhepherds, flocks, and plains 1 may remove,
Forfake mankind, and all ihe world but love. Pope.

g.

To Fly at. To fpriiig with violence
upon J to fall on fuddenly.

A fervatt

FLY

F O A

A ftrvjot that he bred, thrill'd witli remorff,
Oppos'd againft the ad, bending his fword

killer, yet ther will come forth tnify at him.

bacon's Nat. Hift.
No honour, no fortune, can keep a man from
bring miferable, when an ennged confcicnce (hiU
throat.
South.
fly at him, and take him by the
This is an age timjiies at all learning, and en-

Shiikeffean.
country neighbours begin to think of being in
general, before they come to think of the Jly in
their (heep, or the tares in their corn.
Locke.
To prevent itit fy, Ibme propofe to fow alhcs
with the feed.
Mortimer's Hujhundry.
To hecdlcl's flies the window proves
conltant death.
Thomfon's Summer.

My

Sntb.
_

This would dilcourage any man from doing you
good, when you will either ncgleft him, or,;?;; in bis
face ; and he muft exped only danger to himfelf.

Sufi's Drapier's Litters.

—
—

But how, if nature^ in my fate firft?
Dryien.
Then nature's the aggrcflbr.

To Fly off.

12.

Deny to fpeak to me ? They're fick, they're weary.
They have travelled all the night mean fetches.

it

3.

once with his Numidian horfe.
AdJifon's Cato.

To Fly out. Toburft into paflion.
How eafy is a noble fpirit difcern'd,

ij.

From harlli and futphurous matter that fies out
\n contumelies, makes a noife, and ftinks.

Ben Jmf. Calil.
P.:flion is apt to rulBe,

and pride yiWiJly out into

contumely and negled.

Collier off'rienJJiif.

To break out into li-

14. To Jlv out.
cence.

You ufe me like a courfcr fpurr'd and rein'd
Dryden.
II \f; tut, my fierccncfs vou command.
Hapitb, when unoppoKd, Jly out into all the
pageantries of worlhip; but when they are hard
:

prdlcd by arguments,
the council of TrenL

To Fly out.

15.

lie

clofe

To let Fly.

16.

that hunts flics.
There was more need of Brutus in Domitian's
days, to mend, than of Horace, to laugh at a
flycatcler.
Dryden.
The fwallow was a flycatcher as well as the
fpider.
VEflrange.

Dryden.

I.

To (hun; to avoid; to decline.
Love

like a

ihadow

flies,

when fublUnce love

purfues ;

Purfutng that which flies, vrifyiiig what purfues.
Sbaice/peare,

O Jove, I think
Foundations^ the wretched; fuch I mean,
Wheie they Ihould be relieved.
Shakejp.

U

you jiy phyfick in healih altogether, it will
be 100 Grange lor your body when you (hall need it.
Bacon's EJfays.
whither (hall I run, or which vt^yjly
The fight of this fo horrid fpe^acle. '
Milton.

O

1, 'J'o rcfufe afTociation with.

Sleep_^iVnhe wretch; or when with cares oppreft.
And his tofs'd limbs are wearyM into retV,
Then dreams invade.
Drydrn's yuvenat,
N .v.ittji, < him like enchanted ground. Dryden.

3.

'I

o quit by flight.

DeJalui, 10^ ihe Cretan fhore.
His heavy limbi on jointed pinions bore.

The firft who fiil'd in air.
Dryden' t JEn.
4. To attack by a bird of prey.
If a man can tame this monllcr, and with
her_^v
other ravcoing fowl, and kill them,
worth.

it

is

fomewhai
Uu.on.

5. It is probable ihstflenv was originally the

preterite

1.

of fj, when

it

lignificd vola-

One that flies or runs away.
written more frequently^/rr.

What a beard of the gcner.il's cut will do among

To Pallas high ihe J'oaming bowl he crown'd.

Mar.Xxmr.

IVaJon.

of a mare, or other beaft of burthen. The
cuftom now is to ufe coltior a young horfe,
and foal for a young mare; but there was
not originally any iuch diftinition.
Alfo flew his fteed.

And with his winged heels did tiead the wind,.
As he had been a/o.// of Pcgafus's kind.
^. ^•
Twenty Ihc-allcs and ten Jaals.

To FoAL.

-v.

bring forth.

a.

Gen. xxxii. 15.

[from the noun.]

Uud of maics..

To

;

[from foam.']

Covered

frothy.

More white than Ncptune's_/ia»iji face^

When ftruggling rocks he would embrace.

Sidney,

Behold liow high ihejoamy billows ride
The winds and waves are on the juller fide.

!

Drydeit,

FOB.

n.f. [ fieff c, fuffxcie, Germzn.}
A.
fmall pocket.
Who picked a foi at holding forth. Hudiirat.
When were the dice with more piofufion thrown ?.
The well-fill'dyii, not empty 'd now alone. Dryd.
He put his hand into his Vo^,. and prefented me
in his name with a tobacco-ltopper.
Addijon^
Two pockets he called 'h\%fol>s: they were two

large 11 us fqueezed clofe by the preflurs of bis belly.

Sivift.^

Orphans around his bed the lawyer fees.

And t.ikes the plantiff' s and defendant's fees;
His fellow pick-purfe, w.itching ibr a job,.
Fancies his finger's in the cully 'syi/ii.

Swifi,

To Fob. 1'. a. [futpen, German.]

To cheat; to trick; to defraud,

ihiuk it is fcurvy, and begiiito find my^Mf6bb'(t
Sbakefp. (Jihello.
Shall there be a gallows ftknding in England when>
thou art king, and refolution rhu^fo/jh'd as it is withthe rufty curb of old fjiher .lutick the law.
Shakifpeare' s Henry IV_
He goes prelTing forward, 'till he was fobbed
again with another ilory.
L'Eflrange..
I

in

fo

FOAL. n.f. [pola, Saxon.] Tlie offspring

ailj.

with foam

1.

either natural or artificial.
I fhall gi»c you fome direflions (or
fly-fljhing.

Ro'we.

To be in rage; to be violently agitated*

Fo'amy.

Stairs made of an
4. rin architefturc.]
oolong fquarc figure, whofe fore and

back fides are parallel to each other, and
are their ends: the fecond of thefc
J/)erj ftands parallel behind the firft, the
third l)chind the fecond, and fo are faid
to fly off from one another.
Moxon's Mech. Exer.
To Fly'fish. t. ». [fly and flj/?.} To
angle with a hook baited with a fly,

Pope.

Upon :xfo.imIn^ horfe
There lollow'd ftraight a man of royal port.
Wtfiamitb, and gnalheth with his teeth.

He grieves fo many Britons fhould be lort;

The fly of a Jack.

And fprinkl'd large libations on the ground.

2.

They hit one another with darts, as the oihcrs d*
with their hands, which ehey never throw counter,
but at the back of theflier.
Sandys's jiourney.

3.

[from the noun.]

to gather foam.

;

foaming bottles and alc-wafli'd wits, is wonderful.
Shakejp. Henry V.
Cafar fell down in the market-place, inijoam'j
atmauih, and was fpeechlefs.
Shakefpiarc

This is

Taking more piiii!, when he beheld ihem yield.
To lave ihc^icri than to win the held.
H'aller.
2. One that ufes wings.

n.

-v.

To froth

1.

Fly'ir. tt.f, [Uom fly.

To difcharge.

To Fly. t). a.

To Foam.

A

To flart violently trom

The t>oify culverin, o'ercharg'd, letsJly,
And buriH, unairoiog, in the rended Iky. Granville.
17. To be light and unencumbered: as a
flying camp.

Hof. x. 7.
Whiteiiiiig down their mofly tinftur'd ftrcam
Dcfcends (he billowy yiow.
fhomfon's Spring,.

of vefl'el nimble and light for failing.
Flyca'tcher. ».y: [^ and fa/f^.j One

intienchcd behind

All bodies, moved circularly, have a perpetual
endeavour to recede from the centre, and every moment would 7^ out in right linct, if they were not
Be/ttley's Sermons.
rcltrained.

fpume.
The foam upon the water.

To

v, a. \ffy an& bloiv.']
taint with flies; to fill with maggots.
i am unwilling 10 believe that he deligns lo play
tricks, and lo flyilo-u my words, to make others
diftarte them.
Stillingfleet.
Like a flyblovirt cake of tallow
Or on parchment, ink tum'd yellow.
Sviift.
So morning infet^s, that in muck begun.
Shine, buz, tni flybtoiu in the fetting fun.
Pope.
Fly'boat. w. /. [fly and boat^
kind

The white

fubftance which agitation or fermentation
gathers on the top of liqueurs ; froth;

That part of a vane which points how
the wind blows.

TVFly'blow.

any direftion.

1

FOAM. n. /. fpam. Saxon.]

mitins.

Sbakeff.

Mortimer's Hi/Jiandry.

,

Fo'albit. 1
, „,
F'o'alfoot./'--^- P^"'«-

balanccof the jack, 10 draw him up from the ground.

!

Flev.' off It

the motion of the reft.
If we fuppofc a man tied in place of the weight,
were eafy, by a finglc hair faftened uiitoiheji^ or

lifes

To revolt.

The images of revolt ini fying off.
The iraytor Sjphax

i-, n.
To be diftjurthened of
the foetus.
Ufed of beafts of burthen.
About September take your mares into the houfe»
where keep them 'till they foal.

That part of a machine which, being put
into a quick motion, regulates andequa-

2.

Fly in nature'syicf

To Foal,

A

To aft in defiance.

To Fly in the face.

\\,

Such colts as are

^

Asfles to wanton boys, are we to th' gods;

xtfalt me ftraight
Shakffeare's Timon.

Of generous race, ftraight, when they Erft xtfoal'dy
Walk proudly.
May's Georglcks.

Fly. »./. [pleoje, Saxon.]
1
A fmall winged infed of many fpecies.
They kill us for their fport.

:

Ten able horfes.

are carefully kept feparate.

To infult.

To Fly in the face.

F O C
Give my horfe to Timon

fignified efcape

(hould be confined likewife to
vflation ; but thefe diftindions are now
confounded. I know not any book except the Scriptures in v/hichjly and fee

i'lew •!» him, and among'ft chem tell'd him dead.
Hhuktfp.
Though the dogs have ne»er feen the dog-

quiretefpecially into faults.

it

fonjun

To his great nufterj who, 'hercat enrag'd,

10.

and ji^cr/ when

tion,

2.

it.

'

To Fob cjf. To fliift ofl^; to put afidc
with an arrificc; to delude by a trick.
You muft not think
^o fob (i^ your difgraccs with 3 tale.

SbakefA..
For they, poor knaves, were glad to cheat>

To get their wive:* and children meat;.
But thele will not hejobb'd off (0,

They muft have wealth and power too.
Hutiibras.
By a Ravenna vintner once betray 'd.
So much for wine and water mix'd I paid;
But when 1 thought the purchas'd li(|uormine.

The TiScAJobb'd me off with only wine.

Addifon^
Being a great lover ol country-fports, 1 abfolutely
determined not to be a miniftcr of ftate, nv to be
Addijou's Freeholder..
fobbed off with a garter.

Fo'cAL.

adj.

[from facus.\

Belonging

to-

the focus.
See Focus.
Schclhammcrdcmandcth whether the convexity orr
concavity ot the drum tuUc£ts r<|J» into a _/»«/ point
Derham,
or ftallcis tlicm.

Fo'CEt

FOE

Here haunts that fiend, and does his daily fpoil }
Therefore henceforth be at your keeping well.

Fo'ciL. «./. [/.rf/^. French.] The greater
or lefs bone^tween the knee and ankle».
or elbow and wrift.
The friaure was of bolh ihtfocilt of the left leg.

fort;

fO'CC/S.

'

[In optlcks.J
the point of convergence or concourfe,
where the rays meet and crofs the axis
after their rcfraftion by the glafs.

A

point in
within the oppofite
hyperbolas ; from which if any two right
either of the
lines are drawn, meeting in
will be
difference
the
hyperbolas,
"oppofite
the principal axis,

Dry food ftored up for cattle againft
ftarving for

want o\ fodder, cor-

fodderehv,.

-

£*'6"'-

:

When light-wing'J toys

it is

Of feathei'd CupiJ/i«V with wanton dulnefs.
Shakrff,
My fpeculative and offic'd inftrumciiti.

Crajhatv.

Fog! we frequently obferve after funfetting, even
Woodivard.
in our hotted months.

infonjia

regis locatur pro

Leges

fogagio.

'

Dryd. Virgil.

three
A farm of fifty pound hath commonly
aiiit in.
•b«m», with as many cowyards to fodder
Aloriimer's 'Hufbandry,
Stnw will do well enough to fodder with.
Mortimer.

Aftergrafs; grafs which
grows in Autumn after the hay is mown.
Fo^GGiLY. ad-v. [from foggy.'\ Miftily
foreft. Scotica.^

«.

/.

[from

fodder.'l

We of thy cunning had no diffidence;

An enepay in war.
Ere he had eftabliihed his throne,
He fought great battles with his favage/«,Sjieen.
he them Jcfealcd ever mote. Fairy

In which
Never but one more was either like
Tomeet fore>«>/'".
pcrfecutor; an enemy in

A

^'^""'

common

Cod's benlfon go with you, and with thofe
friends of >«.
That would make good of bad, and

Whofoever overlhroweth his mate in fuch
as that either his back, or the one

Shakefpeare.

Forc'd by thy worth

thy/« in death become.
toiiib.

Thy' fiiend has lodg'd thee in a collly
Drydcn'i rao.
Thydefea«tolnow,

, „
full

..

.

and

:

of moift

vapours.

Renewing frclh aflTiults, amidft his prije.
Fell whence he ftood to fee his viiilor fall.

Alas! while we are wrapt \a foggy mift
Of our felf-love, fo paffions do deceive,
We think they hurt, when moft they do alCft.

Sidney.

Southern.

And Phttbus flying fo, moft (hameful fight,
His blufliing face in >ggjr cloud implies,
Sfenfer.
And hides for flume.
Whence h.ive they this mettle ?
Is not their climate/=gs>'

Death never won a ftake with greater toil.
Drjdcn.
Nor e'er was fate fo near a foil.

A

Shaktff. Henry V.

His brightneffe from the world a wlulc doth ftrowd.
Brown.
Doth by degrees bcginoe to Ihew his light.
air

[fc»///<-, French,] Leaf; gilding.
ftately palace, built of fquared brick.

2.

raw and dull ?

t

be fubjetf to any foggy noifome-

Which cunningly was without mortar laid,
Whofe walls were high, but nothing ftrong nor thick.
And goIden/o(V all over them difplay'd. Fairy Siiieen
Fame is no plant that grows on mortal foil.
Nor in the gliftering/o/V

from fens or marfhes near adjoining.

Set oft" to th' wotld, nor in broad rumour lies.

H'olton's ArchiteEfure.

by
About Michaelmas, the weather la.-V, and
no taziiii foggy, retire your rarert plants.
Evelyn's Kalettdar.

Cloudy in underftanding; dull.
FoH. iiiterjea. [from pah, Saxon, an enemy.] An interjeftion of abhorrence:
thing
as if one fhould at the fight of any

Millon.

Something of another colour near which

5.

jewels are let to raife their luftre.
As ftie a black filk cap on him begun

To fet (or foil oi his milk-white to ferve.

My

ret'ormalion glittering o'er

my fault.

Shall Ihew more goodly, and attraft more eyes.

hated cry out a foe!
Not to affcd^ many propofed matches
Of her own clime, complexion and degree.

The precious jewel of thy home.

[French.]

Shakefpeare.
'Tis the property of all true diamor.ds to unite
belte.
augment
thereby
itfclf,
and
clofely
to
the/i/V
and burnt
its luftre; the foil is a miitureof maftich

Sbakrfp.

A weak fide

He knew itit foii/es of human namre. friend.
The witty men fometimes have fcnfe enough to
know their ovin foible, and therefore they craltily
H'mis'i Lagick.

Fo'eman.

Tlie rebel thrones ; but greater rage to fee

Thu5/w/'</

Cieit mighliell.

Millon.

Gteiv's Mufeenm.

jyory.

;

Heftor has a foil to fet him oft": we oppofe the
incontinence of i'arls to the temperance of Heftor.
Broome on the Odyffey.

a blind fide; a failing.

(hun the attacks of argument.

Sbakefp,

Eftecm ifoil, wherein thou art to fet

Whereto we fee in all things nature tends.
Fob! one may Iracll in fuch a will moft tank,
«. f.

Sidney.

Like bright metal on a fullen ground.

Than that which hath no/w7 to fet it off.
The fullen pa(T.ige of thy weary fteps

Foul difproportions, thoughts unnatural.

Millon.

When age fhall level me to impotence.
And fvreating pleafure leave me on ihtfoil.

fofe.
Make ufc of tvVy friend, and ev'ry/«.
To FOIL. 'V. a. [affoler, to wound, olJ
illwifher.
y\i? opponent ; an
French,]
of
reafon
the
into
He that conllders aud eniiuiics
to defeat; though
I. To put totheworlt;
.thinp. i. counted a> to ^'"'"^j^/--,
^,^j
without a complete viftory.
[from /o^ and^<7«.]
Amaiemen! fcii'd
». /.

word.

fort,

heel do touch the ground, (hall be accounted to give the fall if he be endangered, and
Girrtf
make a narrow efcape, it is called a/c;V.
So after many a/oi7 the tempter proud.

a.

Knemyinwar; antagonilt. An obfolete

Ihoulder,

contrary

Fb'GGY. adj. ffrom/o^.
cloudy; dank;
1. Mitty;

FOI'RLE.

Shak.

One fudden_/i;; ftiall never breed diftrult.

2.

-FOE. »./. [pah, Saxon ; fat, Scottilh.]

an advantage

;

gained without a complete conqueft.

;

He

who fodders cattle.

A defeat; a mifcarriage

1.

darkly; cloudily.

Let not

to puzzle.

Foil. n./. [from the verb.]

The
Fo'gginess. n. f. [from foggy.']
cloudinefs
ftate of being dark or mifty

nefs,

;

Whilft I am fuUowing one charaflcr, 1 am crofs'd
in my way by another, and put up fuch a variety of
odd creatures in bolh fexes, that they_/i;7 the fceut
Addfon.
of one another, and puzile the chace.

Gramen

Fog. n.f. [foga^ium, low Latin.

To defeat

3.

As cleere Phoebus, when fome/«gg> cloud

From Winter keep,
Vf c\\ fodder' d in the ftalls, thy tender (heep.

2.

To

for you
To fit tkA fcoille upon night's heavy brow.

With your dull influence

the turf of
Natural earth is taken from juft under
has been well
the beft pafture ground, in a place that

1

Raleigh.

Fly, fly, prophane/o^j.' far hence fly away ;
Taint not the pure ftreams of the fpringing day

feed with dry food.

•ro'DDEittR.

Dryden.
But I, theconfort of the thundcrer.
Have wag'd a long and unfuccefsful war;
With various arts and arms in vain hav; loil'J,
And by a mortal man at length am foil' J. DryJ.-T
blunt; to dull.
z. IFoiiilUr, French.]

fo long darknefs, prefent great altera,

tions in the fun and moon.

Dryd. Virgd.
Fo'dder. 'v.a. [from the noun.] To

To

Aud, foil'd, have with new arms my foedcfy'd.

miftinefs.

KndUs's Hifiory of ,he Turh.
rupted the air.
wintering, they
Being not to be r»ifed without
of land by a
will help to force men into improvement
.^'"'''''
rcceffity of /<-</</?'-.
.
,, „. the
dams.
defraud'ft
Of grafs mi fodder thou
lambs.
ftarving
And of their mothers dugs die

•

K'i/em.in's Surgery.
In their conflifls with fin they have been fu
often foiled, that they now defpair of ever ^ettius
CtLimy'i Seimons.
the day.
Virtue, difdain, defpair, 1 oft have try'd ;

nature.

[/»j-,

Greece with

H<i/ler.

He had been foiled in the cure, and had left it to

Locke.

Shakefp.
To fall and blaft her pride.
covered
Leirer mifts andy^t than thofe which

winter.
Their cattle,

Strange, that your fingers (hould the pencil /o.'/,

Without the help of colours or of oil

Infedt her beauty,

Dia.

I'ODDER. n.f. [po«ne. po^ep, Saxon.]

:

You fenfuck'd/ogi drawn by the pow'rful fun.

Harris.

equal to the principal axis.

Approve the beft, and follow what I approve.
Millon.

A
DaniOi, a ftorm.]
thick mift ; a moift denfe vapour near
the furfacc of the hnd or water.

FOG. n. f.

Focus c.f an ElUpfis. A point towards
whericc
each end of the longer axis ; from
two right lines being drawn to any point
the circumference, (hall be together

in
equal to that longer axis.
A. Focus of the Hyperbola.

formed

from the liale of a vegetable.

The point from which rays diverge, or to
car.
which they converge, may be called iheiry:
Newton's Of licks.
A point in the
Z. Focus 0/ fl Parabola.
from
axis within the figure, and dittant
parathe vertex by a fourth part of the
Harris.
meter, or latus rilium.
3.

Varioufly reprefenting ; yet ftill free.

The child in the

is perfeftly

The focus of a glafs is

I.

Miltoti.

Yet thefe fubjefk not: I to thee difclofe
What inward thence 1 feel, not li\ackrc foU'd : .
Who meet with various objeds, from the ftiil'e

but
womb after it
^iiscy.
before, it is called embrio.
Afatut, in the mother's womb, differs not much

•^"'•

fupport.
». /. [Latin.]

|

Have we mow'd down in top of all their pride f
Sbakeffeare's Henry VI

Com- FOETUS, n.f. [Latin.]

»./. [/sf.7/o, Lat.]

Leader of thofe armies bright.
Which but th' omnipotent none could hin foii'd!

And ever ready for your/cf man fell. Fairy ^ueH.
What vihiDt foeman, like to Autumn's c«»

IVifeman.

Focilla'tiov.

F O I

F O I

4.

[From /««///cr, French.]

Abluntfword

ufed in fencing.

He that plays the king fhall be welcome ; his
majefty (hall have tribute of me; the adventurous
Shakr/p.

knight (hall ufc his/o;'/ and target.

[(rom foil.] One
gained advantage over another.

Fo'iLER.

fi.f.

To FOIN.

-v.

II.

[foindie,

Fr.

who has
Skinner.]

To pu(h in fencing.

k

F O L

F O L
He hew'd, Mid lafli'd, mifctn'i, and thiiader'd
blows.
And every way did feck into his life
Ne plate, ne mail, coui ward fo mighty throws.

the foregoing fignification is derived the ufe oi fold in compofttion.
Fold fignities the (ame quantity added
tiuenty
as t-iuofold, twice the quantity;
fold, twenty times repeated.
But other fell into good ground, and brought forth
fome fixiyfold, fome

fruit ; foinc an hundred f'Jd,

At laft appear
Hell bounds high reaching to the horrid roof.
And thrice threefold the gates : three folds were br.ifs.
Milton.
Three iron, three of adamantine took.
Theirmartyr'd blood and alhes fow
O'er all th' Italian fields, where ilill doth fwiy

ing manner,

Saxon.] Plenty;
word now out of ufe.

And

1 tell

thee before.

Tujfti

Exprellcth his tull tilth and hiiibandrj'.

The ftar that bids the (hcphcrd/o/</.

Cjrexv.

;

mouldinefs.
Drefs muftard, and lay it in cellar up fweet,
Xxftfoifiimft make it for table unmeet.

adj.

[See

Tujfer.

Fusty.] Mouldy;

fully.

[palban,

Saxon.]

To double

The ground in which (heep are confined,
His eyes he opcn'd. and beheld a field
Part arable and tillh^ whereon were Iheavcs
Newreap'd; the other part, Ibecpwalks and^/iA.

;

Who yeaning on the rocks has left her young.
The hrtpc and promife of my fa;ling_/i/i/.

Drydcn,

A limit; a boundary.
Secure from meeting, they're diftinAIy roll'd

Crrech,

[From

pilb,

A double;

.Saxon.]

a

complication; an involution; one part
added to another; one part doubled upon
another.
She in this trite of time
!

The ancient Egvptijn mummies were (hroj Jed
in a ivumber q\ fsiartii linen, bcfmrarcd *.vith cums.
hantT'i A'.i;.»fj.' llijlory.
Not with indented wave, the ferp:nt then
Prone on the ground, as fince; btif on his rear
Circular baft of rifirg/!>/,ij-, that towtr'd
Fold i)iO\t/old, a furfinw maze
A/iiton.
Let the irjperi' '- •' ^'- '"read upot» the bodv,
and let thc/oid, r,.irt» fliould be oft< i.
tra«erfed by the Sov
'/A.
Dr.dm.
With fear and woi, :.jr fti'd, the crowd beholrl;
The gloves of death, with fc-.en difting-jith'd/t/rf/
•

Ot tough bull hides.

Vol, I.

Orydtii'i fiT^ll JEn.

as

Shakffp.
Say it did fo a little time before.
Anger is a kind of bafenefs ; as it appears well iti
the weakncfs of children, women, o\i folks, and (ick
Bacjit.

folks.

Kingi, vi. 34.

4. It

is

now nfed only in familiar or bur-

adj. IfcUaceta, from/oimm, Latin.] Cunfilling of laminx or

lefque language.

leaves.

Remembers he the tree has feen.

Old good man Dobfon of the green,

A piece of another, confifting of an outer cruft, of

And goes vi\t\\ folks to (hew the light.
He walk'd and wore a threadbare cloak

Sivifi»

H'oodv.'ard on Fojf.

He din'd and fupp'd at chatge oiothtt folk.

Svift.

L.a.tin ; fetiillti^/-,

Fo'l K M o T E . « /. [from fali and mote.

and a blue vi)i.-! foliaccout fpar.

[folium,

French.] Leaves;

tufts

of leaves;

.

the

Thofe hills were appointed for two fpecial ufes,
and built by two feveral nations ; the one is that
which you call folkmotes, built by the Saxons, and
Sfenfer.
lignifics in the Saxon a meeting of folk.

apparel of leaves to a plant.

The great columns are finely engraven with

fruits

that run twilling about them from the
verv top to the bottom.
Adlifon.
Whcri fwelling buds their oi'rom foliage (hcd.
»t\i foliage,

Sparenot the liiilc tftfsprings,
Redundant.

Fo'llicLE. n.f. [follicultis, Latin.]
1. A cavity in any body with ftrong coats.'
AUhough

if they grow

cle,

Phllifi.

To beat into laininas or leaves.

Fcl.'icte

Coli foliated, ot any mtt»\Jiliated, cleaveth.

coloured

leaves

called

petala.

is

a

feed-vcffels,

Bacon.

Broivn.

term in botany fignifying
cnpfula

fcminalis, or cafe,

which fome fruits and feeds have over
pedicu.
them
as that of the alkengi,

be foliated, and held between your eyes
and the light, the light looks of a grcenifh blue.
Nitvi'-n s Opt.
If gold

flower, being the colleftion of thofe fu-

is

and circular folliwhich long containeth
there a manifeft recept,TClf of
veliclc,

choler from the liverinto the guts.

2,

Folia'tiok. ti.f. [fjlialia, folium, Latin.]
1. The aft of beating into ttiin leave;.
2. Foliation is one of the parts of the

there be no eminent

no round hag or

this humour; yet

To Fo'liate.t/.h. [fclia/ur. folium. l.atin.J

gacious

difcriminated

from others.
The river thrice hath fJow'd, no ebb between ?
And the o\i folk, time's doting chronicles,

To clofe over another of

And gently harden into fruit, the wife

Commits a ttiing fo morftrous, fo difminile
Sbjke/frjrc'i K, Lfjr.

So mvn-jfiUi of favour

P/.i/. Ivii. 4.

Any kind of people

!

FOLIA'CEOOS.

Fo'liace. ff.yi

;

Nor leave their feats, »nd pafs the dreadlid/i/rf.
5.

the nations upon earth.

the fame kind ; to join with another of
the fame kind.

a ruddy talkyfpar,

Hudihas,

Nations ; mankind.
Thou Ihalt judge the folk lighteoully, and govern

2.

Shalt. Coriol.

the two leaver ol the other door vtt*: folding.

And this you fee I fcatcely drag akin;,

4.

You'd think he talk'd like othetfolk ;
For all a ihelorician's itjIcs
Teach nothing but to name his tools.

3.

;

RaUigb,

Sidney,

When with greateft art he fpoke.

Hbakefp.

I

are _/a/-^ wont to fay,

fon.

The two leaves of the one door inn folding, and

Time drives the flocks from field to/nlj.

When rivers rage and rocks grow cold
And Philomel becoraeth dumb.
And all complain of C4rcs to come.
3. The flock of (heep.

fo

how unhappy foever the children after grow, with »

Witnefs my fon, now in the Ihade of death,
Whofe bright outfhining beams thy cloudy wrath

To Fold. i/. n.

Milton.

Doiilaus having married his lifter, had his marriage in Ihort time blcif, tui

to include ; to (hut.

The fires i' th' loweft htl\ fold in the people

The place where (heep are houfed.

Never troubling him, cither with aflting queftionsi
fault with his melancholy, hut rather tit*

ting to his dolor dolorous difcotirfes of their own and
Sid/tey.
QtY.et folks misfortune.

Nah. i. 10.

We will defcend s^D^fold him in our arms. Sbjk,

.

[pole, Saxon ; 'volk,

/.

or" hnding

have fcen her rife from her bed, unlock her
clofet, take forth paper, yo/i it, write upon't, read
Shakejpeare,
it, feal it, and again return to bed.
Confcious of its own impotence, it fjldi its arms
Collier.
in defpair, and fits curling in a corner.
Both furl their fails, and ftrip them for the hght
Dryd.
Tht'ti folded Iheets difmifs the ufclefs air.

To inclofe

/:.

People, in familiar langu.ige.

I

MUk/k.

Slain.

to com1.

They hefol.len together as thorns.

JVooJiv

cortex of Tifol'.omort colour.

Dutch ;
it is properly a noun colleftive, and has
no plural but by modern corruption.]

Hei. i. ti.
Yet a little deep, a little (lumber, a little folding
Fro-u, »i. 10.
of the hands to fleep.

Hath In eternal AakmdfUed up.

In thy book record their groans.
Who were thy Oicep, and io tlicirancient_/!>/.y
2.

j

FOLK.

As a vefture (halt thou fold ihero up.

3.

FOLD. »./. [plaeb, plb, Saxon.]
1.

Willi wine to drive away the cold,
D^yden^s Hor,
And uiibought dainties of the poor.

2.

A flinty jiebble was of a dark-green colour, atrd
• the extcriour

plicate.

/Jrji/,vr'i Don Sebajlion.
Of fome old rotten roll.
Fci'sTNEss. ». /. [fromyi^.] Fuftinefs

Fo'isTV,

Bacon.

well by their warmth as by their compolt.

Sbak.

pointed to take account ol <hcir doings.
Forge law, arjyt-/// intofome by place

A

Milton.

And then produce her dairy (tore,

Left negligence or partiality might admit or foijl
in abufes and corruption, an archdeacon was ap-

mortuum, Lat.]
ffolium
dark yellow ; the colour of a leaf faded
vulgarly called philomot.

We fee that the folding ot flieep helps ground, as
She in pens his flocks y/ntifold.

To in-

tie iMimU

Fo'liomort. i7<//.

Now the topof heav'n doth hold.

womb

To Foist. X'. a. [_/<7»^r, French.]
fcrt by forgery.

Plumbinus and Plumeo made lefs progrefs in
knowledge, though they had read over movcfoliot.
It'iitts on

To (hut (heep in the fold.

1.

As thofe that teed grow tull, as blolToming time
That from the feednefi the bare lali*w brings
fo hrr plenteous

of which the pages are formed by a Ihect
of paper once doubled.

A

Nature Ihould bring forth,

;

Diet.

FOLIO. ».f. [fit folio, Latin.] A large book

To Fold. <k. a. [from the noun.]

or its own kind, Mfjifm, all abundance.
To feed my inno.em pcopl;. Shakf/peart's TcmfeJ!.
To tceming_/"-'</i!'r

Fo'i.i.^TURE. n. f. [from /a.'mw, Latin.]
The (late of being hammered into leaves.

Tile triple tyrant ; that from thefe may grow
Milton,
hundredfold.

PayjulHy thy tithes, whalfocver thou be,
Tuff.

M^t!-

thirty/old.

f o'lioN. ». /. [poij-on,

look for nofoifon,

;

:

pulh.
Fo'i N I NG LT. adv. [frorayw/?,] In a pufh-

Tilat God may in bltlfing ieaif'/ifon to thee.
Be wilful to kill, and umkiltul to tt^re,

which fucceeds the foliation, as in apples
and pears, and fometimes (land within
it, as in cherries and apricots
for the(c,
being tender and pulpous, and coming
forth in the Spring, would be injured by
the weather, if they were not lodged up
within their flowers.
^hicy,

_

Their corflets, and the thinnetl parts explore. Dryd.
FoiN. «. /. [from the verb. j Athruft;a

the compafs of the
and fometimes guard the frtiit

conftitate

flower;

From

6.

They lalh, they Joint they pafs, they Ilrive to bore

A

^vhich

Arhuthnot.

difltrent.

But yielded paflage to his cruel kni!e. Fairy Slueen.
He cares not what mifchiefhc doth, if his weapon
be out: he will yi/a like any Jevil ; lie will fiiare
Shjkef^eure,
aeither man, wom.in, nor child.
Then both, no moment loft, at once aiivance
fword
other,
arm'd
with
and
lance:
Againft etch

abundance.

F O' L

The inward coat of a lion's ftomach has ftrangtr
foldi than a human, but in other things not moth

;

i^iiticy^

laris. Sec.

To

FO'LLOW.
iiolgen,

1.

-v.

a,

[{--oljian,

Saxon;

Dutch.]

Togo after; not before,

or fide by (ide.

had rather, forfooth, go befutc you like a man,
Sbah-ffeare.
than/5//»iu himlike a<\v<r6
I

5

H

Him

FOL

F O L
Him »nd all hii traia

^

FaHaw'J in bright proceflion, to behold
Creation, and the wonders of his might,
What couM I do,
But/c/Anc ftrait, invifibly thus leJ?

Ml/lon.

3 . To purfue as an enemy ; to chafe.
Where ranks fell thiclceft was indeed the place

To feek ScbalKan, tlirough a track of death
Drydiit.

l/ol/aw'd him by groans of dying foes.
accompany ; not to forfake.
3
Yet doubt not but in valley and in plain
God iJ as here, and will be found alike
Prefent, and of his prefence many a fign

If the neglea or abufc of liberty to examinl what
would really and truly make foe his happincfs millead him, the mifcarriages tbit/elloxv on it mult be
Locke.
imputed to his own eleflion.
To tempt them to do what is neither for their

Up he rode,
Folloru'd with acclamation and the found
Symphoniouj of ten thoufand harps that tun'd
Milton.
Angelic harmonies.

To attend as a dependant.
And the three eldeft fons of Jefle went and fol.
i S^m. xvii. 13.
Imi-eJ S„ul to the battle.
Let not the mufe then flatter lawlefs fway,
Pffe.
Vor/elhiu fortune where Ihe leads the way.

and fometimes giants in the world ; yet it does noi
fdloiu that there mud be fuch in every age, nor m

Not yielding over to old age his country delights,
^idntl.
he was at that lime folio-wing^ merlin.

Some pious tears the pitying hero paid,
Ktiijotlava'd with his eyes the fleeting (hade.
OryiiitCi ^«.

Dangerous do^rine muft neccflarily follovi, from

1

not be-

One who comes after another;

Milt.
Part good, part bad, of bad the loiigcr fcroll.
SigDsfoltozuiitg figns, lead on the mighty year.
Pipe.

Drjdtn.

An affociate

— With Poins, and other

Jeaving it for newer, and changing it for worfe, we
had rather Jollavt the perfcftions of them whom
we like not, than in defe£is refcmble them whom

Hooknr
good
III patterns are fare to \x.folltjvied more than

we love.

If all

who do not follatu oral tradition as their
Tilloi/on.

Moft men admit*
Virtue, vhafillciv not her lore.
Fair virtue Ihould Ifollotu thee,
I ihould be naked and alone,
For thou art not in company.
And fcarce art to be found in one.

ParaJife Reg.

be, andgatheif them under the command of law.
S/jetfer's Xtale of lielanJ.

To confirm by new endeavours;
keep up indefatigably.

to

They bound themlelvcs to his laws and obedience;

The church of Smyrna profefli:d they worthily
loved the martyrs, as the difciples and Jollo-wen ai
our Lord ; and bccaufe of their exceeding great afNeljon.
feftion to their king.and_ their m.illcr.
The rtudious head orgen'rous mind,
t'cllviver of God, or friend of humau kind.
Poet or patriot, rofc but to reftore

intellect.

This is/0/4 childhood's guid>r.
This is childhood at her fide.

To attend to; to be nulled with.
He

2.

bufinefs for gain, fliall fall into fuilS.

Jcr.

3. Aft of negligence or paffion unbecoming
In this fenfeit
gravity or deep wifdom.

Is bound, when m.ijelly \o folly falls.

The faniine fhall>//ow dole after you.
Welcome to all that lead otj'clloiu

To the oracle of Apollo.

Criminal weak nefs; depravity of mind.
Think.'ll thou, that duty lliould have dread 10
fpeak.
When pow'r to flattery bows ? To plainnefs honour

I0 Fo'llow. t. n.
1. To come after another.

1.

Ihru'ktfiutrih

ilVWr/.

that undertakeih and fo'.iovjcih other men's

Bck

Ji"/-.'!.

To attend fervilely.
Such faiiling rojucj as llicfe footh tTcry pafljoo.

has a plural.
Love is blind, and lovers cannot fee

Tbc pretty/"///" that ihtmfelvei commit^

like

humoutt

;

FOND, »./.

[/(/», Scottilb.

Spevfer.

A word of

which I have found no fatisfaftory etymology. To fcrttte K in Chaucer to doat,
I.

to be foolifh.]
Foolifli; lilly;

indifcreet; imprudetu

injudicious.
Tiiat the (Jrecians or Gentiles ever did think it a
foiid 01 unlikely way to feck men's converfion by
Hooker.
fcrmons, we have not heard.
He wjs beaten out ol all love of learning by ipnd
AjcLaiii.
ftliool-mafter.
Tell thefe fad women.

P'piThe faith and moral nature gave before.
7. One of the fame faf lion or party.
Fo'lly. w./. {folic, French.]
weakncfs of
1. Want of underftanding;

,

12.

Ctr. x\. I.

The true profeflion of Chrillianity inviolably en-

in cafe it h.id bctafelloivid upon them, as it
(hould have been, they (hould have been reduced to
St''"/"(>erpetual civility,
.
,

home, being

an idiot.
Sicker I hold him fora ptitafon.
That love's the thing he cannot purchafe.

I

gages all \UJ' oltetuer : to do good to^U men.
Spratt's Sernfjnf.
Everyone's idea of identity will not be the fame
that Pythagoras and thoufands of inifolhven have.
Locke.

and

at

A

A fool

I

Be ^cfalloviert of me, even as I am of Chri*.
I

body politick

had it been, that the raifers iXii fomenters of ihenx
Hoivil,
had never fprung up.
word now obfolete.]
FoN. «./. [Scott.

A fcholar; an imitator; a copyer.

6.

To

)I.

I

And forc'd i^neas, when his ihips were lolt.
Dryden.

One that

llirred in the natural without evacu.ition, fo did llicy
produce difadvantageous effi:as abroad ; and better

withdraw xhw foiljv.frs from them as much as may

Eve'jn.

purfue as an objeA of defirc.
Ileiretus.
Fcllavftict with all men.
J't"FolUtv not that which is evil.

the

hold it no wifdom to leave unto the Irilh chiefs
much command over ihcir Wtndred, but rather

To leave hii/olloti'trs on a foreign coall.

\i\ovc\ foment.']

foments ; an encourager ; a fupporter.
Thefe fatal diftempers, as they did much hurt to

Sb^k. H. IV.

^'•'f.'--

only rule of faith arc out of the church, then all
mYiofollow the council of Trent arc no ChulHans.

10.

1

too

to obferve, as a guide or di-

ie£lion.

Fome'nter.»./.

his continual/s//o«i«vf.

One under the command of another.

or to

.

The medicines were prepared by the phyficiaits,
and the lotions or /o»n;»rj//o/« by the nurfes.
Arbutbnot,

a companion.

Milton.

be of an opinion or party.
Where Rome keepeth that which is ancienter
and better, others, whom we much more aftia,

;

;

The lotion prepared to foment the parts.

2.
Pofe,

How accompanied, can'li thou tell that ?

What yet they know vm^foUnvj, to endure
;

:

is

An attendant or dependant.

to caufes.

To obey

Foment AtloncMtlh forth the humour by vapours ;
but yet, in regard of th^ way made by the poultis,
draweth gently the humours out for it is a gentle
fomentation, and hath withal a mixture of fome lluBjcon's Natural llijiory,
pefadivc.

blind itfelf ; and fo brings all
the inconveniencies that attend a blind follower,
Soutii'i Serm.
under the condud of a blind guide.
faculty of the will,

bold
I laugh, when thofe who at the fpcarare
And vent'rous, if that fail them, (hrink and fear

9.

partial bathing, called

coftions, whereby tnc ftearas breathe into
the parts, and difcufs obftruifled humours.

One who obferves a guide or leader.

Noyb/Ztiffr but a friend.

rules.

is

alfo lluping, whicn is applying hot flannels to any part, dipped in medicated de-

No Hop, no flay, but clouds of find arife,

To be confequential in argument, as

To imitate; to copy, as a pupil

,

•

A fomentation

1.

The underftanding that Ihould be eyes to the blind

%M<^foUovi him as fliall be regiftcr'd,

8.

ff'olt<.n.

from f'ometit.^

fore him, or fide by fide.
Little gallant, you were wont to be a fn/lo^rer;
but now you are a leader ; whether had you raiher
Siai.
lead mift eyes, or eye your matter's heels >

2.

_

do their children.

Blame then thylelf, as reafon's law reijuires.
Since nature gave, and ihoufomfnt'fl my tirei;. Dryd.
Thcv are troubled with thofe ill humours, which
they tlieinfelves infuled unifonunted in them. Lode,

Mi\i call backward on tilefslloii-er's eyes.
Spurn'd
'

To fucceed in order of time.

Exile, or ignominy, or bonds, or pain.

lefs than parents

W- Fo M E N T A 't o N tt.f. \Jimetttathn Frencji,

I,ord.

Fo'llower. «./. \itom folltnv.']

Dryden,

efiFefts

;
to fupport ; to cherifli.
They love their givings, and foment their deeds n<»

making all political power to be noticing el;e but
Luke.
Adam's paternal power.
6. To continue endeavours; to perfevere.
Then fhall we know, if we_/si'/ow on to know the

VltfolloU) fate, which does too faft purlue.

•J.

To encourage

3.

T^emple.

every country.

J.

To go after, as a teacher.

6,

To

mifes.
Though there are or have been fometimes dwarfs,

Millon.

Exprefs, and of his fteps the track divine.

To cherilh with heat.

Every kind that lives,
Famefttedby his virtual |>owcr, and warm'd. Milton,
bathe with wartp lotions.
2.
He fomented the head with opiates to procure
fieep, and a Iblulion of opium in v/itu Xafoment ilis
Arbutlmot.
forehead.

To be confequential, as inference to prc-

J.

With goodnels and paternal love, his face

r.

menter, French.]
1.

nor the good of iliofe under their care, gneat
L'jcke.
mifchiefs cannot bMjilloiv.

Still /b//ew/»^ thee, itjll compafling thee round

A,

To FOME'NT. -v. a. [fomentor, Latin; J9-

own

To

,

F O N
Fol if tb<7 could, Cupid himfclf would bkni
Siake/jere.
To fee me thus tranformei to a boy.
Thy hum'rous vein, thy plealiug/oZ/jr,
Prior,
Lies all negleffed, all foigot.
I.eave fuch to trifle with more grace and eafc.
Whom folly picafts, or whole follies pleal'e. Pofr,

That in the nature of their lords rebels;
As knowing nought, like dogs, butjb/lim'ing. Siji.
3. To be pofterioiir in time.
4. To be confequential, as efFeft to caufe.

Siaii/f-.

'Tiifcnd to wail inevitable ftrnlces.
As 'tis to laugh at them. Sbakefbe.irc'i Coriolalikt.
Grant 1 may never prove iafond
To trull man on his oaih or bond. Sbakeff, Timon^
I am weaker than a woman's tear.
Tamer than llcep, fonltr Uian ignorance. Sbake/p.
Fond thoujhis may fall inio Come idle brain

But on; belief of all, is ever wife.
Th'ju fee'll
How fubtly to detain thee I devife.
Inviting thee tohearwliilc I relate ;
ForJI «ere it not in hope of thy reply.
So fond arc mortal men.
Fall'n into wrath divine.
As iheirown ruin on thomfclves t' invite.

'^"'
IXiT/iet,

Mihm.
Miltm^

'Twas not rtvcnge for griev'd Apollo's wrong
Thofe afs's tars on Midas' temples bung;
ll'allcr.
huifir:a rcj^cnuiice of his happy wilb.
But reafon with yoar fond religion tisbOj

For iliany gods ate niaiiy inliai^tcs.

Dryden,
jlhis

fliii

i»A«^,becaufe it is the vir«y to cheat tlijfelf.
•^

Tilbtfin.

Z. Trifling; valued by folly.

Not withyittj/ fheklt.

.f thetefted

3. Foolilhlv tender; injudicioufly indulpent.
Aldijcn.

I'm a i<io\\\\\fond wife.
Like VenusI'Ufhinc
B</ot</ and be Sne.

Aiitfan.

fooliihly

4. Pleafed in too great a degree;

with of.
Fame is in itfelf a real good, if we may believe
Diyden.
Citero, who was perhaps xoofor.doi it.
delighted

:

\,fond of my well-chofen feat.
My piiflutes, medals, books complete.

Prior.

Some are fo JiirJ to know a great deal at once,
and love 10 talk of things with freedom and boWnefs
IVuitt.
^fore they thoroughly urderlland them.
\v,a. [from the noun.] To
TiSFoND.
treat with great indulTo Fo'kdle

;

Fondntfs it were for any, being free.

To covet fetters, though they golden be.
2. FocKfh tendernefs.

Howe'er unjuft your jealoufy appear,
my pity, not my anger move:

It does

Drydeit.

VW/and it as the froward child of love.
When midft the fervour of the feaft.
The Tyrian hugs, zni fondi thee on her breaft.
And with fweet Iciffes in her arms conftraim.
Thou piay'ft inlufc the venom in her veins. Dryityt.
They are allowed to kifs the child at meeting
and parting ; but a profefTor, who always liaods by,
will not ima them to u& any JondVmg cxprcllioni.
Sivift.

this fadge ?

Your jealoufy.perveits my meaning ftill

My mafter loves her dearly

/

'^'

Corinna, with that youthful sir,
Is thirty, and a bit to fpare :
Herfondneft for a certain earl
Began when I was4iut a girl.

;

UE/lraxgr.
The bentof our own mindt utajr favour any opi.

• ileft men.

niBn or adion, that may Ihew it to be a fcndliitg of
Lackf.
our own.
Any body would have guefleJ mifs to have been
bred up under a cruel Itepdame, and John to be the
/md/ittgol»tmia mother. Ariulbnut't Jihn Bull.
BxtA i fotidlifrg and an heircfs,
Dwfi'd like any lady may'refs?
Cocker'd by the fervanu round,
Sxuift,
Wa» too good to touch the ground.

Shakeffeare'i Henry IV.
Is it «»rth the name of freedom to be a; liberty tu
play the foal, and draw (hame and miljiy upon t

a difcharge opened In the body.

maii'» (fclf

\o(e an cU above
Oiey were poiniid like llceples, and had
lotig loofc pieces of crape, which were fiiugcd, .nnd
AJdi/^n.
hung down their backs.

1.

otnc v.iluing thofc of their own Hde or mind.
Still make ihemfelvet the meafurc nf mankind
F-.ndly we think we merit honour then.
When we but prai/e ouifclves in other men.
Poft.
Under thofefacrcd leaves, fceurc
From common lightning of the Ikiei,
Wi fondly thought he might endure
The flalhciof Aidelia's eyes.
Stuifi.

2.

Give Hie fome muiick

:

late urg'd (he Ihecrs, and (ut the fjtph io twain.

:

either beg orftarve in theother.

j

Millon.

VEfirange.

/•^''"JgIs this a ti me iotfooling f'

Drydett.

To FooL. 'V. a,
1.

&Ukeff. Ant. and Chop.

O (fear fon Edgar,

To

treat with contempt; todi'fappoint;
to fruftrate ; to defeat.
And (hall itin more (hamc be further fpoken,
ThM, you arc fool'd, difcarded, and (hook oft> Shjl.

Him uvcr-weaning
To over-reach but with the fcrpent meeting,

The/n'.i/of (hy abufed father's wratti.

;

my touch,

Pooi'd and bcsuil 'd.

Milton's Paradiji- Lo/f.

[food and /uil,] Fruitful;

If men loved to be deceived inijmlrd about their
fpiiitual cftat'j, they cannot take a furcr courfr than
by taking their neighbour's word for that, which can

Fioni hcav'n, his nOtfing from ilicy(/t«^*/carih.
Prydg/r.

be known only from their own heart.
South.
When I conlider life, 'tis all a cheat
Vorfiol'dwiib hope, men favoorthcdcccit. tiryden.
I'm tir'd with waiting for this chemick gold,
Wliich/o»^ us young, and bcggati us wLen old,

I'd fay, 1 haieyesagain.

^^'"^'ff:

/•''"g

Lear.

Foo'dkui.. adj.
plenteous.
full of food
There Titj-tis was Wfee, who topk his binh
;

I'oo'ay.adj.
food.

Eatable;

[itoTnfaed.l

fit

To veflcls. wine (he drew j

FOOT,. »./. [#-/, Welch

;

fol,

Dr^den.
would advifc this blinded fet of men not to giv<.
by whom (hey have been fo oMei»
/»iA'</ and impofed upon,
Addif-)n\ Frceho!il,r.
1

Jflandick ;

fol, French.]

One to whom nature ha? denied reafon;
9 natural; an idiot.
U«'ll llioj call mf/^-'i I'Oj f

,-

for

And into vrtll few'd fa.'Vspout'd/iw/v meal.

I.

L'Eflrange.

Hemuft be happy that knows the true meafures of

mufick, maoiy food

Might I but live to fee liiee in

Dtnham.

_

muft be an induftrious youth that providet
•againft age j and he that foilt away the one, muft
It

Any thing that noiiriflies.
Of us that fradein Icive.

for all may have.

fpare not.
,

Tliey give \i%f-.d, which may with neilar vie.
H'allrr.
And wax that does the abl>nt fun fupply.

Ev'n before the fatal engine cloi'd,

A wretched fylph \<yofoi:dly inleipos'd

Sbakeffettr's Tempeji.
:

If they dare try, a glorious life, a grave.
Herbert,
If you have the luck to be court-fools, thofe that
have either wit or houcfty, you mvyfool withal, and

pood not of angels, yet accepted Co,
As lh«t more willingly thou could'ft not feem

:

With great or extreme tendcmcfs,

may continue and laL\h at nothing ftill,

Shakejf.

Ficinus J',i:dlj adyileth, for the prolongltion of
life, that a vein be opened in the arm of feme wholcBann,
foBie young man, and the blood be fucked.

PhiUipu

kind of

fo you

Foal not

Muyh/sft/'ii in the tillage Df the pebr,
.Proi\ xUi. 2J.
Under my loWly roof thou haft vonchfaf 'J

>"eW/^- brought here, and fooliihly fcnt hence. Shah.
Sorrow andgrief of heart

For their proud loes, \\mI fondly brav'd their fate.

in this

to feed; feed, Scott.].
Visuals; provifion for the mouth.

At hcav'ns high fcilh 1' have fed.

many fioling, am nothing ta

1,

you ;

On my knees I beg.

Makes him fpeak/i.Bt//>', like a frantick man. Shalr.

The Britirti tiles tranfcend, in evil hour

to toy; to play; to idle; to fport,

That you'll vouchfafc me raiment, hti^saifoid.

dicioofly.

The military moiinJ

To Fool. v. It. [from the noun.] To trifle ;

; 'veeden,T)\i\.<:h,

To enter, and thefe earthly fruits Io tafte

mm'*

i-huEgry, to challenge him to the field, and thea
to break promifc with him, and make afoolofhim.
Siaiefpcare's Trvclfih Night.

:

FOOD. fi.f. [psban, Saxon

To difappaint; to

defeat.
'Twere as good a deed as todrink when a

Thofe old-falhioned fonLiagt!

the head

Locke.

I

7. To. mate a Fool, of.

K'ljimjn of litji.

advifed to ifoniantl in her arm.

Sidney,

To flay the Toot, To aft like one void
of common underftanding.
Well, thus we pUy the foals v<\(h the time, an J
the fpiritj of the wile fit in the clouds and mock us.

.SAa*.

A perfonpletluuick, fubjetl to hot detluxious, was

Foo!illiIy; weakly; imprudently; inju-

Mod (hJIowly did you thefe arms commence,

a hired jefter ; to jeft ; to make fport.
I returning where I left his armour, found another
•nftead thereof, and armed myfelf therein to f/ay
6.

b.iptif«n is contained in the church.
The prelenting of infants at the holy font n by
Hooter.
Aeir godfathers.

ifliie;

To play pranks like

the fool.

which the water for holy

I hare no name, no title
No, not that name was given me at ihcfrrt.

Denhatir.

To play the Fool.

J.

FoNE. «./. Plural of /s*-.
Sptrfer,
A barbarous troup of clownifhyiif.
Font. «./. Xfcm, Latin .fonte, French.] A

Fu'ndly. adv. [from/'jW.]

2.

eo3t.

Hammond.'
Obfolete.

vour, and meet fruits of this change.

_

1.

Where's my knave, myfool! Co you, and call
ray fool hither. "
Shakefpeare't King Lear.
I fcorn, although their dnjdge, to be their fool
or jefter.
Miltm,
If this difguife fit not naturally on fo grave a perfon, yet it may become him better than Ait fool't

,

Sv.!ft. \

FONTA'.SGE.n.f. [from the name of the
A knot of ribbands on the
lirft' wearer. ]
pcrfon
Out of ufe.
top of the head-drefs.

"

thing regarded with great afFeftion.
Partiality in a parent is commonly u»lm:kjr; for
feitdlinp are in danger to be made fools, and tlie
children tlut are leall cockeied make the bcft and

_

a jefter.

They err that either through indulgence to others,

ftone veffel in

One who counterfeits folly; a buffoon

4.

4. Unreafonable liking.

{

Fo'kdlinc. «./. [if om fondle. 1 A
or thin» much fondled or carelTed fume-

'

fool upon all mankind. Dryden's fimenal. Preface,

A. Phil.

Fo'KTANEt. tt.f. l/of/M/ei/e, French.] An

And I, poor monfter.y^ffi^ as much on him ;
Sbakiff.
And (he, miftakcn, feems to dote on me.
[from fond.] One who
Fo'kdle R. «.
fondles.

Pf.Kiv.t.

A term of indignity and reproach.

3.

To be thought knowing, you muft firft put the

My very hate is conftrued into fotidntfi.

To be fond of; to be in

love with ; to doat on.
ill

A wicked man.
Tht fol hath faid in his heart there is no God.

Tender paffion.

3.

thattfiou

2. [In Scripture.]

Hopclefs mort-.er!
Whofe/owi/^f/i could comparo her mortal oflFspring
"-'
Prior.
To thofe which fair Latona bote to Jove.

txfondntfs to any fin in thcmlelvcs, fubllitute ior repentance any thing that is lei's than a fincere reilution of new obedience, attended with faithful endea-

gence ; tocarefs; to cocker.

How V.

Sfenftr.

My heart had ftill fome (ooWihfondnrfHot thee
But hence! tis gone : 1 give it to the winds. Addif.

J

To Fond. v. «.

want of fenfe

weaknefs ;
Foolilhnefs
want of judgment.

1.

titles thou haft given away

waft born with
Shake/f. King Lear,
'Ihc fool multitude, thatchufe by mow,
• Not learning more than the fond eye doth teach,
Which pry not to the interior. 6*/^ij^. Merch. ofVenice.
It may be alkcd, vvhctlter the eldcft fon, being a
fool, (hall inherit paternal power before the younger,
a wife man,
Locke.
He thanks his ftars he was not born tifool. Pofe.

.

gold,

Shak. Meaf.for Miaf.

— .Ml thy other

Sjvagi.

Fondly or fevqrtly kind.
Fo'n d n e ss «./. [from/i//*/.]

Or Hones, whole rate are either rich or paor
As fancy values them.

F O O

F O O

F O N

credit to thofe,

2.

To infatuate

;

to make foolifli.

If it be you ih it iHr thefe daughters hearts

Againft their f«tber,y5i)/ me not fo much
To Sear it lamtly.
Shakifpeurr' t King Ixa'.
When I am' read, thou feign'ft a ivcak appljufc,
A% if ihon:wetl my tVicnJ, bui-Iai'lk'ft a caufc-:

FO O

F O O
This but thy judgraent/oo/t ; the oth«r way
Would both thy folly ai-.d thy fpite betray. Ben Jatifin.

Imprudent;

2.

Ttmfle.

ioo'LBORS.

:

a:lj,

[fool and iorir.]

from the birth.
Sbuk. H. IV.

Reply not to me with afoollicrnieH.
Foo'lery. »./. [from /«<>/.

better /iar.
as

Sbahfp. ruetfib Ni^bt.
aft of folly; trifling pcadife.
J,
particulah
It is meer f^o^ry to multiply djftinft
only
Jn treating of things, where the difference lies

An

in words.

«, Objcft of folly.

Plato, or Oroheus believed in
any of thefe/l4/f»/«, it cannot be tufpedtcd.

That Pythagoras,

-

without contrivance or judgment.
< cfcApcd uravvatcb,
bewail
i :.»;.....; wait her Vlreck for to
The mariner, yet half amazed, llares
At perils part, and yet in doubt he dares

A ialfe gloMng paraiite would

Fairy Slueen.

blindly.

Souib.

'

French.] Foolhardinefs adventuroufnefs
without judgment. Obfolete.
More huge in ftrcngth than wile in worts )>e Was,

The lower part

3.

,

.

,

,

'

The end

;.

4.

Srcro melancholy did his courage pafs.

And was, for terror more, ali-arm'd in Ihining brafs.
Fuhv iijuex.
Y6ova\'K.DY.adJ. [Jhol aai hardy.] Daring
without judgment; madly advoniurous

;

:

.

lluJiiut.

When it fignifics
cloili,

,

^

'

.

^

Foo'lish. adj. [from^tfj/.]
I, Void of undtrftanding weak of intellcft.

looked upon, was the b;ll deferving a fair lady.
abaitjjiiare't Mercbanl ofyenUe.

Walking; without

9.

carriage.

To walk

2.

(out/^ol

;

to tripi

;

not ride; not fly.

By this the dreadful beafl crew ni^h to land.

Hah flying, and h:kUfootifrg in his halte. Fairy i^uren.
'I'akc heed,

have ojwu eye ;

for iliievcs do fool

night.

In this

by

Sbakefpeare.

The man fet the boy upon

the afs, and fooled

himfell.

it

L'E/lrjnge.

If you are for a

merry jaunt, I'll trj-, for once, who

anjoot it farthcll.
Dryden's iiparijh Fryar.
Wjth them a man fometimcs cannot be a penitent,
unlets he alf'o turns vagabond,

and yiwrr it to Jcrufalcm ; or wanders over this or that part at the
woild, 10 vUit the ihrinc of fuch or fuch a pretended
South.

faint.

To Foot. -u. a.

State; charadler; condition.
See on vi\Mfaal w« fland ; a fcanty (liorc.

1

The fca behind, our enemies before. Diydin's JF-n.
In fpccifying the word Ireland, it would feeni to
infmuatc that we are not upon the fameyiw/ with our
fcUow-lubjeils in Enjls-id, Sv/ft'i Diafur'sLillcrs.

I'pice

Lonely the vale and full of hon'or flood.

A pofturc'of aflion.

Infantry; footmen in arms.
fenfe it has no plural.

being buried for a fortnight's

Brown with the Ihade of a religious wood ;
T.hc moon was up, and fhotaglcamy light;
He faw a quire of ladies in a mund.
That it3\.\y footing feem'dtolkim the ground. BryJ,

Thrice horic a.nifoit about the fires arc led.
And thrice with loud laments they wail tlic dead.
Dryden,

;

Thou/fie/(/6 woman, fceit ihoa not our mourning ?
^Efiir.
Pray do not mock me
1 am a iKxyfooliJb fund old man :
Sbakrfp.
1 fear I am not in my perfefl mind.
He, of all the mea ihat ever my fxlijb cjcs

has often, but vi-

To dance; to tread wantonly

1.

Lufius gathered three fcore thoufand choice men
of/»5<, and five thoufand hnrfemcn. 1 Mac. iv. 28.
Himlclf with all his foot entered the town, his
Clarendon,
horfc being quartered abouc it.

as a flytrap.

Betts at the firrt, v/tn/iMttrupi, where the wife
Oiyden.
Like fpiders lay in ambulh for the Hies.

it

To Foot. I', a [from the noun.]

The centurions and their charges billeted already
in the entertainment, and to be on yiur at an hour's
Sbakr/fture.
warning.

A fijare

meafure,

d&cp wiihin the earth, came forth no ways mouldy
or rotten,
Baci^.

^^

£x. xii.

8.

A meafure containing twelve inches:

fuppofed 10 be the length of a man's foot.

Ifiacl Journejed about fi» hundred thoufand onji-^t.

7.

,

An orange, lemou, and apple, wrapt in a linen

a trifling fum of mifcry,

On Foot.

6.

I

L'Eflrtnge,

16.

Thy wife is fclz'd by force, and bom away. Dryden.
'1 he aiit of walking,
5.

li any yet be (ofaolbjrdy,

to catch fools in

very difficult,

% Mac. v. 11.

HaiuiJ.

[fool and fraf.]

remark of their co;igruity, in fome calcs
and iafbme unattaioable.
Grew.
15. Step.
This man's fon would, every foot and anon, be
taking fome of his companions into the orchard.
dillinCt

,^^ti•)chus departed, \*ecningin his pride to make
the land navigable, aiid the foapalTabk 'oyfo^t.

Hall dead through fear, her little babc'revil'd.
Faiiy S^ueetT,
Some would be fo folbardy as to prefume to be
more of the cabinet council o» Cod Almighty than

Foo'LTRAf. //./.

md

the lower part.

Did comt too near, and witii his talons play.

T' txpofc theml'elves to vain jeopardy ;
I f they come wounded off", and lame.
No honour's got by fuch a maim.

Sbakeffeare.
In the government of the- world the number
vlticly of the ends cm /io.', witli the fecret nature
of moil; thiiigs to. which they reUtc, mulk ofake a

^\o\^Ci'^foot in the plural.
:

New added lo thcyi-o' of thy account

One mother, when as htrfi^it'barjy child

llie angels.

Away with Slender lo marry.

ihcbafe.

What difmal cries arc tliofc ?

—Nothing;

fooliDily bold.
•

.

Vond' towers, who<e Wanton lops do bufs the cbuJs,|
Mulk kit's their ^ivinjeet. Sbak. Trciliis and Crejjlda.
Fretting, by little and little, wafhts away and eats
out both liic tops and fides uni feet of mountains.

;

And reafo» withyio/icrrfZ/i; over-ran

While other jcib arc fomething rank on foot.
Her father hath commanded her to llip

table.

[fool and harditfp,

And Sidney's verfe halts ill on Roman_/irt. fofe.
Motion; adion.

14.

in the nature of a foot: as, the foot */" a'

call his Joolliar.

,

Oiilll thou hear thefe vcrfes?
I heard them all, and more too ; for fome
o' tlicm had in thci» more fee! ihan the vcrfes would
•bear.
iilijtcffcare.

That by which any thing is fupported.

2.

quantity

.— Oyes,

Miller.''

His afi'edlion to the.church was lo notorious, that
he never deferred it, till both it and he wore over-run;
Cianndan.
and trod \u\iafooi.

.'
diitef! valour, and then he may go on boldly becaufe

Foolha'rdise. ». /.

^

The queen that bore thee,

There is a difference betwixt daring and fooltardiHefs : Lucin and Statius often ventured them
DiyJen.
too far, our Virgil never.

,Mti

Fctt, in our Englifh verfifying, without

con-

and joints, be fure figns that the verfe is either-born
deformed, unnatural, or lame. Afcham's Scbeolmajler,

CTTt'ner upon her knees than on \\.txfett.
Sljakejfiare's Mjcteth.'
Died every day IIk livM.

Madraftinefs; courage without fenfe.

r,t

Bacon's FJfays,

A

certain number of fyllables
13.
ftituting a diftinftpart of a verfe.

Dutch; /a/, Scottifh.]'
The part upon which wc fland'.

1

{Uom foolhardy.]

». /.

'

FOOT. n.f. plural /f?/. [jror,- Saxon; iioil,'

"lip, that tlies fair under fail,

Tojojathis/ot/-*Jp/>>oveifight.

:

Fooi.STONfs. K./. A plant.

.'.

Foolha'rdinf.ss.

fuddcn undoing, in that they would be forced to fell
their means, be it lands or goods, far unierfaat.

Soulb.
the compalVing of his end.
Chirm'd by their eyes, their manners I acquifc,
I'rhr,
And Ihape m^fool'tjhuefs to their defure.

VEJirange.

underftood, we ihouW defpifc.

deviation from

man's deviation from
right reafon, in point of praftice, muft needs confill.
in Kis pitching upon fuch .ui end as is unfuirable to
his condition, or piteliing upon means unfuiutfle to

Rj/ilgh'i Hlfijiy.

foot-HA'ffY. aJJ. [foot and happy ] Lucky

Stvifi.

come to be univcrfally propagated.
Tiliolfiit.
fcems to have been once proverbially
ufed for the level, the fquare, par.
Were it not for this eafy borrowing upon inlereU,
men's nec^Hities would draw upon them a molt

12. It

/o3///*i«(/; being pr<}pc.'ly a

We are tianfported with/Wfr/w, which, if we

..

If fuch a tradition wen at' any Amt/et cafaot, it
not eafy to imagine how k fhould at tirfl gain entertainment; but much more difficult how it Ihould

the right.
(

mo-

uled but- in the following

is

Foo'lishness. tt.f. [fromfonli/i.]
1. Folly; want of underftanding.
2. Foolilh pradice j. aftu^l

Little

firft

phrafc.

Andys3///»/y are glad to fee it in its height
Yet fo much fooner comes the Ibng and gloomy night.

M''atii.

"=" "•

'

tion.

wickedly.
Although we boafrour Winter (tin looks bright,

my mifttefs.

Svifl.

A ftate of incipient e-viftence;

11.

[In Scripture.] Wicked; finful.
Foo LiSHLV, adv. [from/00/^.] Weakly ;
in Scripture,
without underftandiiig.

Sir, docs

SHiifr.
alk whethrt upon iht fact of our conllituiion,
flood in the reign of the latt King lames, a

it

king of England rniy be depofcd ?

Law.

4.

walk about the orb like the
fun ; it lliines every where : 1 would be lorry. Sir,
but the fool (liouid be as oft with your mailer as with
Foolery,

I

againft particular perfons, without confidering

that he is to love every body as hmfelf.

Habitual folly.

1 ,

little

Af'JiJh figure he mull make ;

ments

fettlement.

;

There is no wcUwidicr to this country without ahope that in time the kingdom may be on a

'

their friendly aids were gone ?

PrJar.
Do nothing elfe but fleep and ake.
He allows Uimfelf \nfoolifi hatreds and refent-

as, lofiol one of his money.

Fooliflx

Addi/mt.

Scheme; plan

10.

What could the head perform alone,
I f all

of our fpecies, the

them upon the cam-

monfaot of humanity, that we Oiould only fet aa
infigpi^nl fine upon the inaawho murders them ?

2 Alae. ii. yn.

to be Ihort in the ftory ilfelf.

this pan

treat

negroes, that we fliould not put

Ridiculous; contemptible.
It is ifatlijh thing to make a long prologue, and

3.

Cahmj's Strmoni.

To cheat

with which we

Like Romans : neitheryioi^ in our Hands, _
Sbakefpeare't Cirlolaniii.
Nor cowardly in retire.

A boor of Holland, whofe catcs of growing iHU
richer and richer, perhapsyW him f» far as to make
him enjoy lefs in his richci than othen in poverty.
3.

indifcreet.

We arc come off

It were an handfome plot,

But Ml of difficulties, and uncertain
And he's iofool'd w ith downright honefty.
Denbum'i Sofby.
He'll ne'er bcliew it.
A long and eternal adieu to all unlawful pleafures
1 will no longer be_/oo/fi/ or impol'ed upon by them.

F O O
What colour of excufe can be for the Wntempf

'

To fpurn

;
to kick.
You, that did void your rheum upon my bearJ,
and fool me as you fpurn a llrangcr cur over your

thrclhold.

2.

To fettle

Sbakefpeare.
J

to begin to fix.

What

.

TOO

F O O
What confed'racy have you with the traitors
'Litt fioteJ in the kingdom?

2.

Sbakr/f. JCiHg Liar.

Saint WitHoM_/i>i>/f<^lJ.!ice the wold
He met the night-mare, and her name toljj

There haply by the ruddy damfel fern,

To hold with the foot.

andoriginal.

Herbert.

4.

5.

Such a Winter-piece Ihould be beautified wiih
manner of works and excrciCa of Winter; as
/ooliati), felling of wood, and Hiding upon the ice.
Peaclam.

As when a fort of lufty (hepherds try

.

1.

Oflome charte/^o;;>g near about this ground. Milton.

That their encounter fcems too rough for jeft. If'^lter.

6.

One rolls along i/xiiatt to his foes.
One witii a broken truncheon deals his blows. Drjif.
2. The fport or praflice of kicking the

Dance.
Make holyday your ryeftraw hats put o;).
And thcfe frelh nympks eiicoun er every one
In country yi»//;,^.

iibak,J^eare'i Tempeji.

Was it difcretion, lords, to lettJiis man.
This honell man, wait like a lowfy^ori^

conquet>.

to one of Vnfootliiyt by opprclllon of me,
hn never
_diVi>uiesir,
^.^if,

Jhe defeat of Colonel Bcllafis gave them
brut footing in Yorklhire.,

A

Three times a-day mifaotcl^^tb horfe did ftumbic,
Aqd ftaiied when he iook'd upon the Tower,
Sbaltefp.

Shatjcd in the

„ '"."

Foot

A

made on

foot,

in oppofition to that

on

]

A foldier

that

marches and

fights

on

The numbers levied by her lieutenant did confift
oCfooimcn three millions, of horfcmcn on; million.
Raleigh- sllijtiry.

A low menial fervant in livery.
;

2.

He was carried in a rich chariot,
twohorfesat either end,

So began o\xx f-mtjigbt in fuch fort, that we
wei*
well entered to biootl of both fides.
Sidney.

littcrwife,

with
and Iho/.o/otm on cich

f"!?'.,

Jiac,.,,.

,
Likejooimen running before coaches.
-

Space
to hold the foot; fpace on which one

To tell the inn what lord approaches.
^ One who praftifcs to walk or run.

Prior.

may tread furely.

Foo'tmanship. H.f [horn footman.

The

.

it

[foot and

l!>o/d.]

tli* ground.

to,

'\

and committed the
mnMcJootmanJl.i[,.

nothing above hini to
nor »„y fcib^Jd left bim to come

fafety of

their lives to

down

did

•jowfoimanjbif.

»./. [from/oj/.]
I. Groiind for the foot.
I'll read you

1.

As full of peril and advent'rous fpirit
A» loo'erwaik. a current roaring loud,
'

ni!j Oiew
n
'n
r^'.'"'
Did
ttxtjucting
found, for all ihe florxi.

totheaexj,

tt.f. [foot -mA face.]
Part of a pair of flairs, whereon,

four or
place,

Sbai.Hen.W

*''"'• "'"'"'>' no m^,^,

In afcems, every Hep gained is a

with

J.'EJirange.

Djuic,

/,«,>^ ,,,,1 h,,
UMer't El/mem, of SfeeX

,

^

you arrive to a b«ond
you make two or three
before you afcend another Hep,
five ftcps,

where

paces
thereby to eafe the legs in afccnding the
reft of the ftairs.
Moxon.
2. A pace no fatter than a flow w.ilk.

Rofiommon.
no

,

hhfootjioot.
Stillingfiet.

r .

"'"''^ probably made by
"^' ^
u
chance, and therefore without etymoloA fimpleton; a coxcomb; a niaa
gy.]
of fraall undcrftanding and much oftentation; a pretender; a man fond
of (how,
drefs, and flutter; an impertinent,

A whole tribe oS fops.

Got 'tween afleep and wake.

Sbakefp. Kinr Lear,

When fuch a pofuivc abandon'd/o/..

Among his numerous abfurdities,
Stumbles upon fome tolerable line,

them in fuch company.
Ihe leopards beauty, without the

no belter ihan »fop i„ a gay coat.
In a dull ftream,

Rofiommon,
fox's wit,

is

L' EJirange.
which moving flow.

You hardly fee the curre.it flow

;

When a fmall breeze obltnkls the courfe;
It whirls about for want of
force.
And lu its narrow circle gathers

Nothing but chaft; and ftraws, and
feathers:
i he current ol a female
mind
Stops thus, and turns wiili ev'ry
hus whirling round, together

wind;
draws
and rtraws, Siulfi

Fools,/,/.,, and rakes, for clK.rt"

n.

f [fop and./oWA'.j A

fool; an infigniiicant wretch.

Where ihirdy butchers broke your noJJle,
And handled you like ^fypj^odle.
Uudihas.
Fo'ppi-ry. >/./ [from/i/;.]
I. Folly; impertinence.

My fober houfe.
after

f.

known

of worftiipping his foo'Jl^jol,

Let not the found of fhallow/sMfry

Foo'tpace.

matie, deep- and dangerous

Ontheunfteadfa!l/.»„-,gofafpcar.

ihcit

H.nii:„d.

Yet, lays the fox, I ha« haffled more ul
ihem
with my wiles and fhifts than ever you

Foo'tino.

,

topDooDLE.

The Irilh archers cfpjing this, fuddenly broke up,

VEJIr^nge.

He s at the top: be has
afpire

rrs-D

'1

art or faculty of a runner.

/^",'«'' •? '""'^ •" '()« roots of the tree, and left
fo luticfiotbM, that the
6rft bUll laid it flat on

,

the phrafe

1 fret to fee

foot.

horfeback.

Foo'thold. n. f

„
By

ArbuihHot.

Do that good mifchief which mav make this ifland
Thine own for ever; and 1, thy Caliban,
For ay ihy/iO/Z/V^,,
Sbatiefj^earc's Tempcg.
V oo't MA^i.n.f. [fool and ma».
1.

of
Bemlcy's Sermons.

more is meant than worihipping God at

foot.

foot.
Snouted and tailed like a boar, mifgoted like
a
„«<»/•
Grru.'.
FIGHT. »./. [/«/ mdfight.\
fijjht

notice given.

Let echoing anthems make his praifei

;

too'TLicKER. »,/ [/oor and //>,*.] Aflave;
an humble fawner; one who licks
the

fumptcr doth.

;

Un earth, Imfeotjlool, as in heaven his throne.

their

Palemoo's fliepherd, fearing the footbridge was
loaded it fo long, 'till he broke
that which would have born a bigger burden. Sidney

Foo'tcloath. n.flfootiaiichalh.]

;

wherever
Locke.

Men to the>o/>,/ofthe Deity. Denham' s Soph

Clarendon.

No ufelul arts have yet loundfoting here

row bridge.
not ilrong enough,

mark

Thus have we fwcpt fufpicionfrom our feat.
And madeour/M/y?M/offecurity. Shak: Henry V\,
They whofe facred office 'lis to bring
Kinps to obey their God, and men
their king,
By thcic myfterious links to lix and tye

Da-vies

.

But ail uauught and favage docs appear.
DryJcn.
9. State; condition; fcttlement.
Gaul was on the fame footing with Egvpt
as to

A

[foot znA bridge.]
bridge on which paflfcngers walk; a narn.f.

Token

Kxample.
Foo'tstool. „.f [fid andZ-Jo/.]
Stool
on which he that fits places his feet.

land,..the ttate of

'

thinks that he is in the right way,

Jlmne wifdom and beneficence.

Ever fince our nation had any footing in
th
England did defirc to perfeft the

>

Footed, adj. [itom/act.]

2.

•

At chamber-door
Sl}al(efftMi': Itinry VIII.
Though I had nobody to allill but ifootboy, yet
I made fliift to try a pretty number of things. Boyie.
Whenever he imagines advjntajes will redound

As loth to bear me 10 the flaughter-houfe.

in, if he

hehas Ihefoor/eps of others to follow.

3.

Irilh; and in his
fooling his fon continuing, hath increafed his
faid
Sfenfe, on Ireland.
"^f.";Like running weeds, that have no ceriiin root;
or like fioiingt up and down, impoflible
to be
'"""i
Bacon's Henry V 11
8. Kntrance ; beginning ; eftabli(hment.

A low

by
the
'

Let us turn our thoughts to the
frame of our
lyltem, if there we may trace any
vilible/oo//?<.6,

7. Steps; road; track.
He grew flrong among the

menial ; an attendant in livery.

impreffion left

Clear-fighted reafon, wifdom's
judgment leads,

:

football.
He was fenfible the commnn^.otiait was a very
imperfect imiution of that e»ercife.
ylrbutbmt anJ Poft'i Marl. Scrlil.

track;

And fenfe, her vaiTal, in herfooi^eps treads. Denham.
A man Ihall never want crooked paths to walk

would outnight you did no body come

But hark, I hearthe/sor//igofaman.
Shjkeffeure.
Break off, break off; 1 ti:cl the different found

Their force it/iotia'/t, care ot viflory
Makes them laiute Co rudely, brealt to breaft,

Trace;
foot.

Spenfrr.

.

Care-w

A wo-

man's ftirrup.

As he forward moved his footing old.
I,

thoroughfare

Footstep. »./.[/(,(,/ and;??/.]

Dryden

So backward ftill wa»tum"d his wrinkled face.
1

every

A poft

whofe difpatch is well

hoo'T STALL, n.f [footzndfa/f.]

Tread; walk.

T

letters,

near as fpeedy as the horfes.

Wliich lolcs.footing when to mortals ihewn.

all

Foo'tlridge.

For carrying fuch

Or each fome more remote and llcppery ftar,

w;th you .is you ivith me,

%.J

or meffenger that travels on foot.
tveelcly appointeth xfooipo/l,

Fir'd by the fun, or feemingfo alone;

That like a /"00/iw// you do fpurn me thus? Sbairj'f,

Foo'tboy. ». /. [foot and

Know'ft thou the way to Dover?

—Both ftile and gate, horfcway mi footpath. Sbak.
1"ootpost. n.f [foot and/./.]

i«.^f

,

Place; pofleffion.
Whether the unOuous exhafations are

der, cafed '.vith leather, driven by the foot.
fo round

/•

The reafoning faculties of the foul would not know
how to move, for want of a foundation and fooling
in mod men, who cannot trace truth to
it« fountain

Foo'tball, ti.f. [foot and 6ai/.]
1. A bail commonly made of a blown blad1

Loiie.

T-u

We are ihc earrh, and they,
Like mol;s v ithin us, heave and caft aboiK}
A:id ti!l thcy_/<ia/ and clult.h their prey,

Am

or carriages.

thofe ideas which fenfe or refleaion have otFered.

Ticket.

Not in ufe.

Thsv ^eve- coil, much lets give out.

Foo'tpath. n. flft^t and path.-] A
narrow way which wifl not admit horfes

All thofc fublimc thoughts take their rife and
footing here: the mind ftirs not one jot beyond

And jroynt t'lee, witih, aroynt diee right. Sbuftfp.

4.

back.

And the dry poles produce a living race. Dryd. Virg.
3. Bafis ; foundation.

Bid her aligbl, and her troth phght,

O.-Ihepherd boy, they featly/sor th^ green.

Foo't pad. n.f. [foot and pad."]
A ffighwayraan that robs on foot, not on horfe-

Set cloven flakes; and wond'rous fo fcehold,
Their Iharpen'd ends in earth theiryior/wj place.

To tread.

3.

F O P

Support; root.

enter

Shatefp. Mrrchant nfl'rnice

was three or four times in the
thought they
were not fames; and yet the
guiltinefs of my mind,
I

tlie fudden furprife of
powers, d.ovc .he grolfneis
of the Jcppery into a received
belief, in defplyht of
the teeth of all ihvme and reafon,
lb,u

my

they were

'''"'^'//^'"y ff ''*'•

o/mnd/or.
u
the excellcit/d/i^^y, of the world,
that
when we are (ick in fortune, often the furfciis
of
our own behaviour, we make guilty
«f ourdifafterj,
^'-uI his

•

IS

(lie

.

ftiowy folly.
vain or

_

.

piaAice; idle

idle

3. Foolery;

affeftation.
They thought the peopk were better let nlone in
their fofftrtti, than to be fuffered to break ioofc
from that fubjeflion which your fuperllition kept

having been compelled to ufe three or foBr only ii I
chewing, wore them fo low, that the inward netvf
lay bare, and they would no longer/or pain make
Roy on the Creation.
ufe of them.
I but revenge my fate; difdain'd, betray'd.
And fuff'riiig death/or this ungrateful maid. Dryden.
Sole on (he barren fands, the fuff'ring chief
Roar'd out/or anguifli, and indulg'd his grief. Dryd.
For his long abfence church and ftate did groan,

For what befalls ai home, or what abroad.

But though we fetch from Italy and France

ai//.

I, ray own judge, condemn'd myfelf before
Dryden.
Tor pity, agjravate my crime no more.

Matrons of renown.

When tyrant Nero burnt th' imperial town,
Shriek'd /or the downfall in a doleful cry.
For which their guiltlefs lords were doom'd to die.

[from/»/.J

And know not ho* llicir wits to weir,
Shxh/p. Klig Lrar

S. Vain in ftiow; fooliflily oftentatious
vain of drefs.
With him the prifent ftill fome Tirtoes have
;

The vain are fpriglnly, and the ftapid grave
The llothful negligent, tWfopprJJj iicjt,
Garth.
%hc kwd are airy, and tl\e lly difcrsct.
The Romins grew extremely expenfive an-", fip
i

Ariuthnar.
rude and ill-natured,
vain and foff^fit who lives too high, and

X--

is

who is
who is in debt.

haw.

Fo'ppiSHLY. aifo. [from/ff//;/^.] Vainly;
oftent-itioufly,

Va-

Fo'ppisHNESs. n. f. [from /o//j^.]
'

nity ; ftiowy or oftentatious vanity.
Fop'PLiNG. «./. [from/«7».] Apettyfop;

Than we to dretcli it our.

For all the world,

was young counfelJTar the perfons, and violent
Bacon i Ejfays,
Auihority followctli old men, aild favour and po-

Edward and Richard

Shakifpcare.

for as much as the cjueltion cannot be kanncd,
unlefsthe time of Abraham's journey be contideied
into a tradition oincerning his
Rtleigh's HiJIory.
An aftrologer faith, if it were not tor two things

S tillingfit rt.

Bjcor:.

Our laws vrtnfor their matt*r foreign.

it is a fundamental law in the
Turkifti empire, that they may, without any other
upon Chriftendom for the
war
provocation, make
propagation of their laws; fo the Chriftians may
at all times, as they think good, be upon the preven-

For me, no other h.ippinefs I own.

Dryden.
For me, my dormy voyage at an end,
Diydcn't JEn.
I to the port of death fccurcly tend.
Alter death, wc Iprights have jurt fuch natures

We had, for all the world, when human creatures.
Dr\den.

Such little wafps, and yet fo full of fpite (
For bulk mere infedls, yet in mifchief drong. 'Tate.
Hobbcs has given us a correct explanation of the
fenfc in general ; but for particulars and circumPope.
dancos, he continually lops them.
Lo, fome are vcllom, and the rcll as good,
For all his lordrtiip k^iows, but they arc wood. Pope.

Denbum's ^ophy\
is

3.

'Taylor.

In this ffiife it has often ai before it.
W(/or Maramaldus the general, they had no juft
caufe to midikc him, being an old captain of great
Knollcs,

•pprefTiog in his bargains ; but quietly recommend

experience.

lis edate to God, and leave the fuccefs to him.,

moft of thtif jrinders,

Addifon^

10. In comparative rcfpeiSl.
For tulks with Indian elephaius he ilrove.

And Jove's own thunder from his mouih he drove.
Dryden,

With appropriation to.

1 1

Shadow will fervc/'r Summer: prick himj for
have a number of (hadows to fill up the mufter.

4,
•

man be

After 0.in expreffion of defire.
Ofor a mufe of fire, tlwt would afcend

The brightcd iKaven of invention!
13. In account of; in foliition of.

fully

adufe* of

any thing for »

Sbahfp,

Thus muchyi/- the beginning and progrefs of the
Burnet'i Theory of the Earli^

deluge.

Inducing to as a motive.
There is a natural, immutable, and eternal rcafon

_/irthat which we call virtue, fntl againft that which
"
Tilhtfun.
we call vice.

15. In expectation of.
He mud be back again by one-and-twenty, to
the father cannot day anV
marry and propagate
longer yir the portion, nor the mother_/e, a new fct
:

of babies to play with.

i6.

Lockr.

Noting power or pofTihility.
For a holy pcrfon to be humble, for one whom

all

men efiecm a faint, to fear left himfelf becontc

a dcVil,

it

as hard as /ir a prince (o fubmit himfelf

10 be guided

17.

by

tutors.

Taylor.

Noting dependence.

The colours of outward objefls, trouf ht into a
darkened room, depend for their vilibiiily upon the
diinncfs of the light they are beheld by.

In the charafter of.
If a

Shakejpcaye,

book,

12.

14.

Than to hive born no illjc to the throne.

:

laft

We failed diiefllyyir Genoa, and had a fair wind.

Temple.

command.

Knoliet,
lack of viduaU.
Quit, <|uit,_/c.r Ihame | this will not move.
This cannot take her
If of berfelf flie will not love,
Surkling.
Nothing can make her.

have

intention of going to a certain

We failed from Vcnfor China and Japan. Bacon.
As ihe was brought /-j- England, Ihe was catt
away ne.ir Harwich haven,
ll.iyn'ard.

Haw

Baton's H'ar viih Spain,
The governor fallying out, took great ftorc of
viflual and warlike provifion, which the Turks had
Kmllcs's Uijl'.ry.
for hade left behind them.
Their offer he willingly accepted, knowing that
he Was not able to keep that place three days, for

who

llales.

for the government, it is ahfohitc monarchy
there being no other laws in China but the king's

tion.

wickeder /ir hoping.
Let no man, yi' his own poverty, become more

(fuller.

Mi faith ihelc honours confided in prcferving their
memories, and prai^ng their virtues; but/cr any
matter of worlhip towards them, he utterly denies it.

mo-

the
Hammortd*s Frafl, Catrch,

With

vie.

will fearch

The hvpocrite or carnal man hopes, and

believer to do

place.

B.\:on's ^jfays.

For me, if there be fuch a thing as I.

travels.

ment.
For 3% much as

hM for the moral part, perhaps,

youth will hare the pre-eminence, as agt hath list
Bacon's Ujj'ays.
the politick.
Comets are rather gazed apon than wifely oblerved
in their efJisas; that is, wliat kind of comet /or
magnilude or colour, produceth what kind of eftcds.

Shakefp. litnry VI.

that are condant, no individual would lalt one

Shak.

be true and

to

me a mifchief, becaufe he is fure, U|ion the balance
of accounta, to find himfelf a lofer by it.
Addifcn.

It

pularity youth;

of human fociety, and

particular perfons,

and it hfor men's health to be temperate.
Tilloifon.

counfeiybi- the matters.

With fiery eyes, fpaiklingyi'' very wrath.

JPetfons

juft;

9.

As thou art at this hour, was Richard then.

That which wc for our unworihinefs are afraid
(o crave, our prayer is, that God fir the wortliinefs
of his fon weiild notwithllanding vouchfafe to grant.
timkir.

Care not for frowns or fmiles.

It hfar the general good

confeqiiently of

like cutler's poetry

For ail the world.

Becaufeot'.

Conducive to ; l>enelicial to.

8.

Shakeff. Corlolamis.

Upon a knife; love me and leave me not. Shakrfp.

FOR. prep, [pop, Saxon; voor, Dutch,]

I

The_ kingdom fliall to Ifrael be reftor'd.
MilioH.
The darlling deed wasfeiz'd with fudden fright.
And, bounding, o'er the pommel cad the knight
Forward he flew, and pitching on his head,
He quiver'd with his feet, and lay/or dead, Dryden.
6. Confidered as ; in the place of.

It can sever bejfiir the intered of a

That (he did give me, wliofe poefy was.

Tickel.

of,

Sbakefp, Henry IV,

Now, nowyir fure, deliverance is at hand,

A paltry ring

And, with his tailor, (hare \!&efappl4ng'i he.irt.

Speak, good Cominiusj
JCeave nothing out/oi- length.

hearyir certain, and do fpeak the (ruth,

I

The gentle York is up.

Rather our date's defeftiveyiir requital.

Thy works in Chloe's toilet gain a part.

Are at our backs.

With refemblance or.

5.

We

fomethinj, which ihey have fo many years exerciled
/jrnothing, of railing and fcribbling againli us. S^wifi.
Your fernions will be lefs valuable, for want of
Hiclft.
time.
z. With refpeft to: with regard to.

an under-rate coxcomb.

I.

Say, is it fitting in this very field,

This field, where from my youth I've been a carter,
I, in this field, (hould die /cr adcfcrter?
Gay,

My

Emperor Aurelian (orbid men that
variety of colours on their dices, allowing it ttill to

'ftflj ; fo that the

women.
You would know who

!

Our prefent lot appears
Dryden.
For happy, though but ill ; for ill, not worft.
Children, difcountenanccdby their parents_/Sr any
If we procure not to ourfelvcs >m>re woe.
ATiltcn.
fault, find a refuge in the careffes of foolilh Batterers.
The council-table and (lar-chamber held for ha.
Vocke.
nourable that which pleafed, and/or juft that which
A found mind in a found body is a (hort but full
profited.
Clarendon.
defcnptionof a happy ftatc in this world: he that
7. In advantage of; for the fake of.
has thefa two has little more to wi(h/or, and he
An ant is a wife creature for itfelf ; but it is a
that wants either of the:\; will be but little better
(hrewd thing in an orchard.
Bacon,
Locke.
y'o- any thing clfc.
He refufed not to die for thofe that killed him,
The middle 0: thegu'phis remarkable /or temand
(hed
his hlooifcr fome of thofe that fpilt it.
AJdifon.
pciis.
Boy/e.
open'd tlnught to joyous profiieft railc,
Shall
I
thiift the world was made_/5» one.
Prior.
And /or thy mercy let m'e ling thy praife.
And
men
born/or
are
kings,
as
beafts/i.r
men,
think,
Which bcft or worft-you could not
Notyir proteiflion, but to be dcvour'd i
Dryden,
Prior.
And die you maWfor want ol'dnnk.
Read all the prefaces of Dryden,
It is a motl inf.imous fcandal upon the nation, to
For thofe our criticks much confide in j
reproach them/ir treating foreigners with contempt.
Though meerly writ at &tHfo,r filling,
S^ivift.
To
raife the volume's price a (hilling.
Sv/tfi,
can only give them that liberty now _/5;-

Foolifli; iile; vain.
Fools ne'er hid lefs grace in a year;
Tor wile men arc grown /)f/)j^,

Their manners ate fo apifh.

Dryden.

without having examined, what u there tjiat

he may not embraceyoc truth
icck.;
She thinks you favour'd
But let her go, for an ungrateful woman. A, Philip;,

Nor with a fupcrftitious fear-i« aw'd

Oiif fopperies of tune and mode! of dance.
Our Ituidy Britons fcorn to boirow fciilc. Granville,
I ivilh I could fiy uniiat/cpferiei were wholly
Su'i/t.
abfcnt from graver fubjefts.

I,

trutli,

Madnefs the pulpit, faftion fciz'd the throne. Dryd.

SiillingJIett.

ihem in.

Fo'ppisH.

FOR

FOR

FOR
moon, »nd ftan, as if «c were villains
Sbahff. Kivg Ltar.
on neccffity.
J. Affeftation of fhowr or importance;
th< fun, the

of; for fear of,
18, In prevention
^

Boyle.

Cora

i

FOR

FOR

FOR

who truly would appear my friends.

Let them,

Corn ti«Hg had doum, «ny way Te atlow.
Should wicher as neeielh Jar burnia; in mow.

Tup,.
And, _/b'- the time Ihall not feem tedious,
what befel nu: on a day,
StAefp. Hrr.ryyx.
In this fe!f-plicc.
There mutt be no alleys with hedges at the hither
end, for letting your protpeift up^n this fair hedge
from the green nor at the farther end, Jot letting
I'll tell thee

agent, they muft necelTarily have caufcd t eon(idSr.

Employ thcirfwoids like mine tor noble ends. Dryd.
28. Of teiKkncy to ; towards.
The kettle to the top was hoift
But with its uplidc d.owD, to iliow
inclinationy^r below.

Its

29. In favour of;

Sivtfi.

on the part of; on the

fide of.

:

hedge through the arches
Bacon's Ejfays.

jour prolpeft from the

upon the heath.
• She wr.ipped him clofeySrr catching cold. Lcxchci.

19. In remedy of.
Sometimes hot, fomctimctcold thiols are good
GarreJfat.

fm the looth-ach.

20. In exchange of.
He made conliderible progr«f$ in the (hidy of the
before be quilted

law,

that profcQion for this of

Drydcn.

poetry.
_

31. In the place of ; inftcad of.
To maWe him copious is to alter his rhafa^r
and to tranllale him \ivKfor line is impoQible.

Wc

of a bad caufe, when I have ia often drawn \lfor y
Dry den.
good one.
Jove wi^fir Venus ; but he fcar'd his wife.

Dry den.

He^r the world was made, not us alone. Co^'iey.
They muft be void of all leal for Clod's honour, who do not with lighs and tears intercede w ith
Ariftotic is/Jr poetical jullice,

Drydtn.

wherein he is defetlive.

Through a certain duration.
RofC'jKI

Thofe who fleep without dreaming, can never be
convinced that their thoughts wefwr four hours bufy,
Locke.
without their knowing it.
The adminillration of this bank is^^rlife, and
the
the
hands
ot
chief
citizens.
partly in
Addifon.
Since, bir'd/Vrlife, thy'fervile mitfe inuft fing
Bncceifin con<]uetts, and a glorious king;
And bfiag him laurels, whatlbc'er ihcy oaft. Prhr^
The youth tranfported, aiks without deUy
To cuidc liic tuu's bright chaiiot/af a day, Gtdrib.

24. in fearch of; in queft of.
Philofopher^ have tun (6 far back for argametkts
of comfort agalnil pain, as to doubt -.vhether there
were any fuch thing; and yet, for all tbat, when
any great evil has been upon them, they ^^oukl cry
'TiUot/eu^
out as loud ai other men.

Chymifts have not been able, fjr aught is vulknown, by fire aloiK to feparate true fulphur
BoyU.
Itom antimony.

26. Noting a (late of fitnefs or readinefs.
Nay, if you be an undeitaker,

3:nJor you.
Shdiefp.
If he be brave, he's ready for the ftroke. DryJtn.

17. la hope of ;
the final caufe.

I

for the faite of; noting

How quickly nature
Jalli to revolt, when gold becomes her object
F-ir thii the foolith, over-careful fathers,

Have broke their fleeps with thsught,

their brains

with care.

Their bones with induftry: ^r this, engrofs'd

The canker'd heaps of tlrong alchievcd gold

:

Foi this they have been thoughtful to invefl

Their fons with arts and martial cxercifes. ^bakrfp.
The kingdom of God w»a litll rem by ill coonfel; upon which counfel there arc ict, for am in(buOion, two marks.
BaCuM.
Whether fome hero's fate.
Id words worth dying /ijr, he celebrate,
CoxlUj.
Far he writes not j'or money, nor for praifc.
Nit to be call'd a wit, nor to wear bays. T)enh/rm.
There we (hall fee, a fight worth dying _/ir, that
WrlTed Saviour, who I0 highly deferves of us, BoyU.
lie is not difpofed to be a iool, and u> be milerable/sr company.
"TUUtfan.
Even death's become to me no dreadful name
In fighting liclds, where our acquaintance grew,
1 law him, and conteran'd him firlt/sr you. Dryd.
For

this, 'lis needful to prevent her art.

Donne.

^

A few rules of logiclc are thought fufficient, fn
this cafe, y^r thofe

who pretend lo the higheft im-

provement.

I..ocke.

^r wicked men to dread God; but a vir-

tuous man may have undillurbed thoughts, even of
tillotfan.
the jufticc of God.
His country has good havens, bothyir the Adriatic and

Addifon on Italy,

Mediterranean.

Perlia is

commodiouHy fituatcd for trade both by

Arbuthnot on Coins.
Scholars are frugal of their words, and not willing
to let any go ^cr ornament, if they will not ferve
FelitH.
for ufe.
fea and land,

With intention of.

31.

And by that jullice hall remov'd the caufe
Of thofe rude tempells, which, for rapine fent
IVaUer.
Too oft, alas, involv'd the innocent.
Here huntOnen with delight ma^ read

How to ckoofe dogsyiv fcent or fpced.

Waller.

Cod liath made tome

things V^i" a< long a duTjli^ijjn's Sermons.
ration aj they are capable of.

For this from Trivia's temple and her wood.

Dryder,
Such examples fliould be fet before tliem, as pat-

Know

I

have vow'd two hundred gladiators. DrydtX^

Firll the wily wizard muft be caught

For unconftrain'd, he nothing tells_/sr naught. Dryd.

37. In proportion to.^

He is not very tall, yttfor his years he'stall. Shat.
As he could

fee

clear,

fir thole times, througti
now and theti».
Bacoti^

Exalted Socrates ! divinely brave !
Injur'd he fell, and dying he forgave

Too noble y^r revenge.
Dryden"*: yu^fenaL.
^
By means of; by interpoution of.

38.

Moral confiderati'oncan no way move the fenfiblc
Hale.
Of fome calamity we can have no relief but from
God alone ; and what would men do in fuch a cafe,

appetite, were it notfor the will.

if it

were noxfor God ?

Tillotfon.

/
39. In regard of; in prefervatlon of.
cannot for my life, is, I cannot if xay life
might be faved by it.
1 Did the rafcal knock upon your gate;
But could not get him/'ir my heart.
Shakeff.
I cannot for my heait leave a room, before I
have thoroughly examined the papers pafted upon

Addifon's Sfed.

the walls.

40.

For all.

Notwithftanding.

Neither doubt you,
apparel,

I

becaufe

I wear a woman'^

will be the more womaiiilli ; lincc 1 alTure-

you, for all

my apparel, there is nothing I delire

more than fully to prove myfelf a man

in this

en-

Sidney.

terprize.

For i/ythecarefulnefs of theChriftiansthe Englifti
bulwark was undermined by the enemy, and upon
the fourth of September part thereof w^is blown up.

jMckt-,

Knolles' s Hiflory,.

what is xtfor? Locke.
Achilles is for revenging himfelf upon AgamemBroome.
non, by means of Hc^or.

But as Noah's pigeon,, which return 'd no more.
Did fliew (he footing foundy&r all the Hood. Davieu-

tcriis fjr their daily imitation.

The next quellion ufually

i?t,

Becoming; belonging to.

32.

It

were not for your ijtiier, nor your good,

Nor/vr my manhood, honcfly, and wildom.
Shakeff. Olbelh.
To Ut you know my thoughts.
Th' offers he doth make.
Were rvsifor him to give, nor them to take. Daniel.
It were more J'ur his honour to raife his fiege,
than to fpend fo many good men in the winning of
it

Knolles.

by force.

Cncley.
Xz^ifor Dutchmen and Englifh boys,
Is ityi*'' you to ravage feas and land,
Unauthoriz'd by my fupremc command !
Drydtn.
Mii lire already ligns him/zr the Ikies,
Diyden.
And istarks the feat amidll tiie deities.
It is a rcafonable account J'or any man to give,
why he does not live as the grcatell part of the world
do, that he h.ts no mind to die as they do, and peIllUtJon.
rilh with them.

33. Notwithftanding.
This, for any thing we know to the contrary,
might be the fell-fame form which Philojudscus «Hooler.
Cod's defertioD (hall, for ought he knows, the
Decay if Piety.
next minute fupervene.

picffeih.

be

Probability fuppofes that a thing may or may not
fo, for any thing yet certainly determined or
Styitih.

either fide.

Drydtn.

Belides, in gratitude yiir fuch high matters.

by human policy.

That flie thinks nothing elfe lo ht/or mc.

And lire with love the proud Phcnician's heart.
Dryd. ^iVg.
.Some pray for riches ; riches they obtain
ButwaKh'd by isbbci>;/»r Ibcir vytiUUi arc flain.

35. In confequence of.
For love they force through thickets of the syooil.
They climb the ftecpy hills and ftem the flood. Dryd,
36. In recompence of; in return of.
Now, for fo many glorious adlions done.
For peace at home, and^or the publick wealtht
I mean to crown a bowiyir Czefar's health

Fortune, if there be fuch a thing as the
Spies that 1 bear fo well her tyranny.

garly

Sfenfer.
Your underftandings are not bright enough /or
the exercife of the higheft afls of reafon. Tilloijoru

fuperftition; fo he would be blinded,

Are courfen driv'n« who Iheo their mallet's blood.

45. According to.

The oakyir nothing ill.
The ofiet goodyiw twigs, the poplarySr the mill.

lU.
Noting accommodation or adaptation

It is

Some f\ciiefor onre, fome will for ewr pleafe.

Bentley,

To the ufe of; to be ufed in.

Fttlon.

Tliey are iwfor rank and foul feeding,

30.

cri«d-up Englilh poet fur their model, adore him,
and imitate him, ai they think, without knowing

Umalridge.
Dennii.

him.

Cnulry.

take a falling meteor for a ftar.

22. In fupply of; to ferve in the place of.
Moil ot our ingenious young mei take up ibmc

aj.

Ye fuppofe the laws^lr which ye ftrive are found
Ih Scripture; but thofe not againit which we llrive.
Hooker, Preface.
It becomes me not to draw my pen in the defence

able difotder in the whole fyftem.

34.

For any thing that legally appears to the contrary,
it

may be a contrivance to frignt us,

Sivift.

of matter had been fituated
nearer lo the fun, or 10 each other, as they might as
eaJ'Uy have been; fir juiy mecbitniCal ot for'.wtou;
If fuch

vaft malTcs

They iefolute,_/o/ all this,, do proceed
Daniel.
Unto that judgment.
U we apprehend the greateft things in the world
of the Emperor of China or Japan, we are well
enough contented, for a// that, to let them govern
Siillingjieet.
at home.
'J'hough that very ingenious perfon has anticipaied
part of what I (hould fay, .yet you will, for all that,
cxped that I Ihould give you a fuller account. Boyle,
She might have palTcd over my bufinelfcs; but

my rabble is not to be mumbled up in lilence, for
Dryden,
For all his exafl plot, down was he call from all
his greatiKfi, and forced to end his days in a mean

all her pertnefs.

South.

condition.

In the language ufed two
41, For to.
centuiics ago, far was commonly ufed before to, the fign of the infinitive mood,,

As, I come for
to note the final caufe.
in the
to fee you, for I love to fee you
fame fenfe with the French pour. Thus
:

ufed in the trandation of the Bibl«»
But this diftinftion was by the bcft writers
fometimes forgotten ; and,/*/-, by wrong
ufr, appearing fupcrfluous, is now always
it is

omitted.

Who Ihall let me now
On this vile \>oiiy for lo wreak my wrong ? Fairy i^.

A Urge poller! ty

,

Up to your happy palaces may mount.
Of Wcfled f^ifitsAr to iftewjfe Ihc count.

Sfenfer.

tWo

Thefethingt may ferve/or

to reprc fent

how juft
Bacon*

conj.

The word by which the reafon is introdnced of fomething advanced before.

1.

ciptivaled ark,

FO'RAGR.

abroad.
One way a band-feleft (mm forage drivej

From a fat meadow ground; or fleecy flock.
Ewes and their bleating lambs, over the plains
2.

For never any man was yet fo old,
BuLhop'd his life one Winter mote would hold.
Dtnham.
Tell me what kind of thing is wit:
Cavihy.
Thus does he loolilhly who, for fear of any
thing in this world, ventures to difpleafe God ; /or

Jt'or the hrft matter loves varietv Icfs.

into
in fo doing he runs away from men, and falls
Tiilotfm.
the hands of the living God.

on this account that.

It )« in

this fcnfe properly followed by that,_

withont it Ls elliptical.
moft obfolete.

and

This fenfe is al-

to
,1 doobt not but great troops would be ready
run ; yet for that the vvorft men arc mod ready to
of
difcretion
by
remove, 1 would wilh them chofcn
Sftnfir on Inland.
wife men.

Jealous fouls will not be anfwer'd l<>
They are not ever jealous for a caufc,

.

Shakcff. Othelh.
Heaven defend your good fouls, that yon think

3ut jealous/or they're jealous.

I will your ferious and great bufinefs fcant;
Shakrffeare's Othello.
For Ihe is with me.
Nor fwell'd his breaft with uncouth pride,
That heav'n on him above his charge had laid

Milton's Faradife Loft.
Their booty.
Provifions fought abroad.

Some o'er the publick magaiines prefide,
And fome are fcnt new forage to provide. Dryden.
3. Provifions in general.
VtoMtiforage, our fpent arms renew'd. Dryd.
Fora'mikous. adj. \itomforamen , Latin.

Full of holes; perforated in many places.;
porous.
the ^itft creation
of the found, will deaden it; hut in the pafTage 01
the found they will admit it better than harder boSoft and

For as much. In regard to that; in con-

3.

fideration oi.
For at miich as in pubjick prayer we are not only
to confider what is needful, in refpedl of God j but
.there is alfo in men that which we muft regard : we

fomewhat incline to length, left overquick difpatch
(hould give occafion to deem, that the thing itfelf
Hooker.
.is but little accounted of.
For as much as the thirft is intolerable, the patient
jnay be indulged the free ufe of fpaw water, jirbuil.

VoKiuhy. Becaufe; for this reafon that.

4.

•Solyman had three hundred fieldpiecesi/oc wA)',

1 firbore,

Nor dare they itray

pray you, tarry

not to do; 10 ab-

;

ftain.

He forbear to go forth.

I

Sa. Mill. 13.

At this he ftaried, mA forbore to fwear;
Dryden.
Notoutof confcienccofthclin, butfear.

The wolf, the lion, and the bear.
When they their prty in pieces tear,
Denbam.
To quarrel with themfelvesyii»A.ur.
4. To retlrain any violence of temper; to
be patient.
By long forbearing is a prince perfuaded, and a
foft tongue breaketli the bone.

3.

To ravage

;

to feed on fpoil.

Forage in blood of J'leiich nobility.

To decline

;

to avoid voluntarily.

limc hath qualified
Sbakeff King Lear.
the heat of his difpleafure.
forbear.
So angrj' bulls the combat ia

Forbear his

prcfeiicc,

until

.

IValler.
When from the wood a lion does .ippear.
To abftain from ; to Ihun to do ; to omit.
it

paflcdonly by the houfc ol peers,

be looked upon

as invalid

it

?oFoVage. -v. a. To plunder;

fliould

and void, and execution

(hould be thcreupon_/arisr« or fulpended. Clarendon.
'Ihere is not any one adlion whatfocver which a
man ought to do, or toforbear, but the Scripture
will give him a clear precept or prohibition for

it.

South.

3.

4.

To fpare

to treat with clemency.
With all lowlinels and meeknefs, with long fufEfb. iv. 2.
fering, forbearing one another in love.
;

To withhold.
Forbear thee from meddling with God, who is
wilh me, that he deftroy thee not.
i Cbron. xxiv. ZI.

Forbe'aRanCE. «./. {itom forbeai^.}
The care of avoiding or fliunning any
I
thing ; negation of praftice.

Sbakeff.

to ftrip;

True ttoSlenefs would
Learn h\mforbearance from fo foul a wrong.

Shak.

This may convince us how vaftly greater a pleafin, than
fure isconfequent upon the forbearance of

to fjjSil.
Tliey will both ftrengthen all the country round,
and alfu be as euotiiiual h«!ds for her majeliy, if
the people IhouU revolt ; lor without fuch it is eafy
the whole land.

to fofage and over-run
The vittoriouj Fhililliats

Sfenfer,
were woifted by the

It

is

The praflice and the purpofe of the king.
From whole obedience 1 forbid my foul. Sbakeff^
By rafting •f that iran forbid,
Where they fought knowledge, they did error find.
Darjies»

The voice of reafon, in all the diftates of natural
morality,

ought carefully

to be attended to,

ftridl obfcrvancc of what it commands,

oi vt\\3.K it forbids.
All hatred of perfons,
principlei,

by a

but efpecially
South.

by very many CKriitian

we are molt I'olemnly and indifpcnfably
Sfra:.

The chafte and holy race

.\re

M forbidden

this polluted

Dryd. .^e.

place.

To command to forbear any thing.

2.

a rigour/oz-iai/ him, that he

She with fo fweet

Sidney.

durft not rebel.

They have determined toconfume all thofe thiugi
that God hiihforbidden them to eat by his laws.
Judith, xi. i».

To oppofe^ to hinder.

3.

The moiftuce being forbidden to come up in the
and fo dilateth ir.
Bacon's Nat. Hift.
the
humour, and fo
would
pen
The plafter alone
Bacon.
eiafperate it as well 1% forbid new humour.

ftayeth longer in the root,
plant,
^

Thy throne is darknefs in th' abyfs of light,

A blaxe of glory ihuforbids the light!

O teach me to believe thee thus conctal'J,
And fearch no farther than thyfelf reveal'd. Dryden,

.

Hi^ mo.1 mighty i ithcr on a hill
Stood fmi'irv, to behold his lii.i's whelp

A witch, a quean, an old cozening quean; have I
Sbakeff tare.
notforbid her my houfc ?

Prov. xx». jj'.

To FoRBt'AR. 'v. a.
1 .

[pc^bcoban, Saxon;

Dutch.]

To prohibit; to interdift any thing.

1.

:

To omit voluntarily

3.

When rain is promi^'d or a ftormy dayi
But near the city walls their wat'ring take,
Hat forage far, but Ihort excurfions make. DryJtn.

'verbieden,

forbid.

paufe a day or two.
Before you hazard ; for in chufing wrong,
while.
1 lofe your company ; therefore _/irifar a
Sbakeffeare.
I

As in a ftorjny night.
Wolves urged by ihcir raging appetite,
Denbam.
Ferjge lor prey.
There was a brood of young larks in the corn,
and the dam went abroad toyorjg* for them. L'Efir.

forbidden, ot forbid,

a.n-

To paufe; to delay.

2.

An

I

Cbeyite.

balance.

«. /. \Jxom forbear.y
interceptor of any thitig.

intermitter ;
The Weft as a father a! goodncfs doth bring.
The Eaft a yji iMf,-r, no manner of tliii:g. Tujfcr.
To FORB'ID. t^. a. pret. 1 forbade; part.

weighed the mountains inlcales, and tlic hiUs in a

If

To meet dlfpleafure farther from the doors.
And grapple with him, ere he come fo nigh. Stak.
2. To wander in fearch of fpoil, generally
of provifions.

pret.

».

Rogers.

ance.

Forbe'areR.

Who ii3.rtforbear to admire and adore him who

2.

Forage, and run

He

tion ; T&yforf'wear, and other powers not
eafily explained.]
1. To ceafe from any thing; to intermit.

To wander far; to rove at a diftance.
Not in ufe.

applies to our gratitude by obligations of kind,
nefs and beneficence, of long fufferiii j ind/oi icrr.

citnxXyforbare; ^zn.forbortt. [popbai^an,
Saxon. For has in compofition the power
of privation; k, forbear: q» deprava-

Solyman putpofing tp draw the emperor into battle,
had brought no pieces of battery with him. Knotles.
7o Forage, f. ». [fromyim, abroad, Lat.]
J.

4. Lenity; delay of punifliment; mildnefs.
Nor do 1 ukc notice of this inftance of feveri'.y

Bacon's Natural Hi/lory.

To FORBEAR, -z/.

'till the (feed of
Sbakeff. King Lea;-.

Have a continent forbearance,
his rage goes flower.

bodies, in

/i>rij«t«5«j

dies.

But, for his great Creator would the fame.
His will iiicrcas'J; fo fire augmenteth flame. Fairfax.
Many cxcrefceoccs of trees grow chiefly where the
tree is dead or faded ; far that the natural fap of the
tree torruptcth into fome preternatural fubllance.
Bacon's Natural HiJIory.

Command of temjjer.

3.

in our own country to juftify fuch a proceeding, but
only to difplay the mildnffs and forbearance made
ufe of under the reign of his prefent Majefty.
Addijon's Freeholder.

A herd of beeves, fair oxen, and fair kine,

Old hufbandmen 1 at Sabinutn know.

Who for another year, dig, plough, and fow;

/ [fo'ira^f, German and

«.

1. Intermtflion of fomething.

South.

French; from/om. Latin.]
Search of provifions ; the aft of feeding
1 .

Hfav'n doth with us as we »ith torches deal,
Tlot light ihtm for themftlves ; for if our virtues
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
•As =f we had them not. Shate/p. Mrafuttfir Mtaf.

2. Becaufe;

which foraged

their country wore

than a conquering army.

f«ur« of fear ihis kingdom m»y haw towardi Spain.

For.

FOR

T OH

FOR

South.

can poiribly .iccompany the commiifion of it.
Liberty is the power a man has to do, or forbear
doing, any particular aftion, according as lis doing
mind.
Of'
for itaramt has the sftual prcftrcncc ia the
Locke.

4.

To accurfe; to blaft. Now obfolete.
To bid is in old langu.ige to praj to
;

forbid therefore is to curfe.
Sleep (hall neither night nor day

Hang upon his penthoulc lid
Sbakeff. Macbeth.

He thall live a mtnforbid.

To Forbi'd. v. n. To Utter a prohibition.
Now the good goisftrbiJ,
That our reno.vned Rome
Should now eat up her own

!

Sbakeff. Coriolanus.

Forbi'ddance. »./. [from /«rW.j Prohibition ; edift againft any thing.

How haft thou yielded to Iranlgrcfs
The ta\& forbiddanct } how to violate
The facred iruitforbiddin V Milton's Faraiifc Lojl.
Forbi'ddenly. adv. [from_/irW.] In an
unlawful manner.
With all confidence he fwears, as he had feen't.
That you have touch'd his c^ueen forbiddenly. Shot.
Forbi'dder. Jr./ [(rwxi forbid.] One that
prohibits ; one that cnafis a prohibition.
This was a bold acculation of Cod, making the
fountain of good the contiivcr of evil, and the yir.
the crime an abettor of the fafl pro-

Udder of

•''"•«''•

hibited.

Other care, perhaps,
M.ty have diverted from continual watch
Mitten's Varadife Ltfi.
Our great/ori/Wf r
For B x'b u 1 K c . tartic>}ial adj. [itovaforbid. ]
.'

Railing

FOR
Raifmg abhorrence
cauCng averfion.

;

FOR

repelling approach

;

FORCE, It./, [force, iicnchiforlis, Latin.]
Strength; vigour; might; aftive power.

He never cculd maintain his part but in the /ari-e
of his will.
Shakjf. Much ado about natklng.

A Ihip, which hath (truck fail, doth run
Hy force of iivu force which before it won.

Donne.

2. Violence.

Thus got the houfe of I*ancaftcr the crown.
Which now they hold by free, and not by right.
Shaie/feare.
The (hepherd Paris bore the Spartan bride
By farire away, and then by force cnjoy*d
But 1 by free confent.
Dryden,

3. Virtue; efficacy.
Manifelt it is, that the very majefly and holinefs
of the place where God is worlhipped, hath, in regard of us, great virtue, force, and efficacy ; for that
it fervcih as a fenCble help to llir up devotion. Hooker.
No definitions, no fuppolitions of any fe^, are
oi force enough to deftroyconftant experience, Lockt.

4. Validnefs; power of law.
A teiHment is of/irnr after men are dead. Heb. ix.

f

Not long in Tree this charter ftood
Wanting that leal, it mud be feal'd in blood. Denham.

Armament

5.

warlike preparation.

;

Often

forcet in the plural.
Thou whofe capuin I account myfelf,
Look on my_/ir«j with agnciouieye. 5A<i*. K.\\\.
The feeret of the powef of Spain canfilleth in a
*-eleran army, compounded of mifcellany_/orf« of all
nations.
Bacon.
A greater_/or« than that which here we find.
Ne'er prefs'd the ocean, nor empby'd the wmdi
!

ifaller.

Thofe viftorious forcei of the rebeli were not able
Drjden.
6. Deftby"; neceflity; fatal compulfion.
to fuftain your arms.

Tij Force, t. «.
1.

[from the noun.

To compel; to conftrain.
Dangers are light,

if

they once feem light ; and

more dangers have deceived men iaxa forced them.
Bac(.n.
1 have h*en_/j)rcf</to ufe the cant words of Whtg
»ud Tory.
Stifi'i Examiner.
The adioni and operations Aid force them upon
dividing the fingle idea. Broome' s yieui of Efic Poem.
2. To overpower by ftrength.

O that fortune
Had brought me to the field where thou art fam'J
To have wrought fuch wonders with an afs's jaw,
I rtioulj Ui\efirc'd thee foon with other arms. Mill.

With lates averfe, the rout in arras rcfort,

To/wTt their monarch, and infult the court. Dry Jen.
3. To impel ; to prefs ; to draw or pulh
by main ftrength.
Thou (halt not delixoy the trees by forcing an ax
againftthem.

iD«/. ix. 19.

Stooping, the fpear defcended on his chine,
lull whcie the bone dillinguifh'd either loin :

Tliatfcarce die viaoryiVfV the fteel away. Drjden.

To enforce

to urge.

;

Three bluft'ring nights, born by thefouthem blaft,
1 floated,

and difcover'd land at lall:

forcing my ftrength, and gath'tinj to the Ihore.

Dryden' 1 j£n.

Ye myrtles brown, with ivy never fere,
come to pluck vour berries harflj ind crude,

5.

To drive by violence or power.
This way of flattering their willing benefadort
out of pan, contrived another of /^remj their
unwilling neighbours out of all their potrclTions.

Dtcay of Piely.

To free the port^, and ope the Punique land
To Trojan guefts left, ignorant of fate.
;

The queen might/crr» them from her town and ftate
.

6.

_

.

^

.

,

To gam by violence or power.
Vol. i

—

I

like it not.

Dryd.

With what moK forcible we mayoSend
Our yet UBwounded enemies ?
2. Violent; impetuous.

;

Jerfey, belov'd by all ; for all muft feel

VVhere comely grace and conftant virtue
dwell.
Like mingl'd ftreams, mart forcible when

not to obtain

naturally or with eafe.
Our general tafte in England is for epigram, turns
of wit, iniforc'd concei ts.
Addifon's Sfe£1ator.

join'd.

Jerfey ftiall at thy altars ftand,
Shall there receive the asure bind.

3. Efficacious; aflive;

Toman; to ftrengthen byfoldiers; to

10.

garrifon.
Here let them lye,
•Till famine and the ague eat them up :
Were they not/sr^Vwith thole that ftiould be our's.
We might have met them dareful, beard to beard
Shakeffeare.
If you find that any great number of foldiers be
rewly fent into Oroonoque, and that the paflages be
lixciiy forced, then be well advifed how you land.
Raleigh's Apology.
11. To Fo R c E eut.
extort.
The heat of the difpute had forced out from Luther eiprcffions that Teemed to make his dodrine
run higher than really it did.
Aiterbury.

That morning that he was to join battle with Harold, his armorer put on his backpiece before,
and
breaftplate behind ; the which being efpied

ping of the rind giveth out their fmell more.

Bacon's Natural HlSory,

Prevalent; of great influence.

4.

Hovi forcible are right words ?

faying, as in

footh

Raleigh's Hiflorj,

Done by force; fuffercd by force.

5.

He fwifter far,

Me overtook, his mother all difmay'd.
And in cmbncesforcible and foul
Ingend'ring with me.

Swi/i.

6. Valid ;

violence.

Fo'rciblv." adv. [fwm/arcli/e,]

T'""n
-t
Xmpctuoufly;
with

2.
3.

conftrainedly ; unnaturally.
This foundation of iheeanh upon the waters doth

By violence; by force.
fr^fry Queen
The taking and carrying away of women /«•!
c.bly and againft their will, except

female wards and

bondwomen, was made capital. Bacon's Henry
VII.
This doflrine brings us down to the level
of horfe
and mule, whofe mouths are /w/iA,
holden with

Fo'RCEFtJL. aJJ.

bit and bridle.

like a pair of pincers to open and

^n

«,Z^'l'V'
Which forms in caufes firft whaie'er Ihall be,
Ainitrd by a friend one moonlcfs night.
This Palamon from prifon took his flight.
Diyden

they will not part therewith, even when

?;"'"•

A

little

forte ;

weak

fO'RCEPS n. f

;

^

Forceps properly fignifiei a pair of tongs
; but is
ufed for an inftrumciit in chirurgery, to extraft
any
thing out of wounds, and the like occafions.

Quincy

Fo'rcer. H.J. [frora/«;r<-.J
I. That which forces, drives, or conftrain';.
z. The embolus of a pump working by pulfion,

in

contradiftiniftion

which afls by attraflicn.

F.iirfax%
.
«
.-,
T r
It lometimesfigniiies the ftream, the
current, without any confideration of

Having

feeble ; impotent.

[Latin.]

They pals the ftream, when Iheiiad found th^ford,
2.

[from force.]

to a

fucker,

^^"-1"""'

ftiallow part of a river where it
may be
pafTed without fwimming.
Her men the paths rode through made by herfword:

Pojie.

impetuoulh'.

•

to pafs.

went.

Fo'RCEFt/i LV. ativ. [from forcffu/.] Vio-

that
taken out of

ttAd
r r
^c
FORD.
«./. [popb, Saxon, from capan,
1

Through Pans* Ihield the fireful weapon

inclofe.

The locufts have antennn-, or long horns before,

with a long falcalioii oxforcipated tail behind
Brotxn,
When they have feized their prey, they will fo
tenaciouny hold it with their/i>f«)>aW
mouth,

Againft the fteed he threw
His/orcf/i,/ fpear, which, hiding as it flew,

ae/J.

Hammond,

Fo RciPATED. adj. [from/ow//.] Formed

Commune with you of this, but rather follow
Oat fretful inlfigation.
Shakfp. mmer's Tale.

Fo'RCEtESs.

"rilofon,

great ftrength.

He himfelf with greedy great defire
Into the caftle enter 'd forcibly.

moft aptly agree to that ftrudture of the abvfs and
antediluvian earth j but very improperly ini/irced.j,
to the prefcnt form of the earth and the waters.
Burnet's Theory.

'y^''^""' or>rrf/i/deftiny.

ate fit t«

work very >rr/*/y upon two of the
moft fwayin*
and governing paliions in the mind, our
hopes and

Camden' t Remains

1

Strongly; powerfully.
The Gofpel offers fuch confiderations as

1.

Fo'rcedly. adv. [from/cw.J Violently

impetuous.
Why, what need we

binding ; obligatory.

Fo'rcibleness. //./. [{tomforcii/e.} Force;

have none, it doth prognolUcate that I (hall change copy from a duke to a
king.

[Jirce and /»//.]
Violent ; ftrong ; driven with great might

Milton

The abdication of King James, the ajvocitts
on
that lide look upon to have been
forcible and uhiuft,
and confequently void,

I

;

Jn^

God hath afllred us, that there is no inclination
or temptation fo/oroi/s which our
humbleprayers
and deUies may not fruftrate and break afunder.

his

by
fome that ftood by, was taken among them for
an
ill token, and therefore
advifed him not to fight
that day; to whom the duke anfwered,
\ force not
of fuch fooleries t but if I h;)ve any IkiU
in footh-

Priot,

powerful.

Sweet fmells are moft forcible in dry fubftancej,
when broken ; and fo likewife in oranges, the rip.

To

To Force, i;. n.
'I'o lay ftrefs upon!
This word I have only found in the following paflage.

Milttrt.

The influence of a form and mind,

Dryden.

To conftrain; to diftort

g.

'

HookerT

Who therefore can invent

ffWIer,

Heav'n from all ages wifely did provide
This wealth, and for the braveft nation hide
1
Who with four hundred foot, and forty horfe.
Date boldly go a new- found world to force. Dryd.
8. To ravilh ; to violate by force.

lently i

Ar.J with yirtV fingers rude
Shatter your leaves before the mellowing year. Milton.

That puniihment, which hath been fometimes
and leeble.

Atrides might as well Uivt/orc'd the flcy.

Force her.

Wilkins's Dadalut,

forcible to bridle fin, may grow afterwards too
weak

Troy wall'd fo high,

He pois'd in air, the javelin fent.

High on a mounting wave my head I bore,

I

bv fuckers or forcers.

Fo'rcible. adj. [from/.w.]
1. Strong; mighty: oppofed to -tt^^-rti.

To

Pierc'd through the yielding planks. Dryden' s

It rtuck fo laft, fo deeply bury'd lay,

4.

FOR
The ufu-il means for the afcent of water is either

you left it here
Abandon 'd to thofe tyrants hope and fear
If they /src'J from me one kind look or word.
Could you not that, nor that fmall part afford >
Dryden.
ftorra ; to take or enter by violence.
7.
!

:

Tragedy was msdtJiriiiiMiTg loi horrible. A. Hill
f.

My heart,Is yout's; tut oh

paffaec
*

or fhallownefs.

Mcdiifa with Gorpinian terror guards
The ford, and of itfcl f the water flies
All tarteof living wight.
Mihon's P^radif,'^'
Rile, wretched widow rife ; n.ir
undeploi 'd
Permit my ghoft to pafs the Stygian
/<,, J;
But rife, prepar'd in black to
mourn thy p«rifli-j

La

I

cr
To

Dryden

rr
l-oRD
oj. a.
[from the noun.] To
pafs without fwimming.
Adaw's fliin-bonss muft have contained a tlwu.
IT

S *

fantl

'

more, if he hai/i»A</t1ie

fcnd (iitham, »nd much
•
acean.

Rale/gfj's Hijiory.

Fording hit current whtre thou tiiid'll it low.

Doiham.

Yo'RVABLt.atiJ. [from/Bra',] Paffable without fwimming.
Plinyr placeih ihe

Schcnits upon the Euphratt»,

where the fame bcginneth te hc/arjaiit, HaUigh.
countryman fouii '.ed a rivwr up and down, to
try where it was m'A fordaiU : and where the

A

water ran too fmooth, lie found it deepcft ; and, on
the coatraiy, Ihallowdk where it made moll noife.
L'Efiriuige.

FORE. aJj. [pone, Saxon,]
Anterior J that which is before ; not behind.
Though there is an orb or fpherical area of the
found, jet they move fhrongeft and go fartheft in the

1.

2.

firii

The feaft was ferv'd j the time fo wtU/orecaJt,
That jurt whe" the dcll'ert and fruits Xwre plac'd,
The Hend'salafui began. Dryd. 7hed.and HomiiM.

n. f. [ from the verb. J
Contrivance beforehand ; fcheme; plan ; an-

tecedent policy.
Alas that Warwick had no more forecaji^
But while he thought to ileal the (ingle ten.
The King was (lily finger'd from the deck. Shaitfp,
He makes this difference to arife from lYitforecaJi
and predetermination of the gods.
Addijon.
Theiad, I'carcc ripen'd into pcrfedlman.
Saw helplefs him (rom whom their life began:

Or)"''

to thofe that meet it.
Each of them will bear lii dcmiculverins and four
fakers, needing no other addition than a (light fpar
deck /ore antl aft, which is a flight deck throughfirft

-v, n,

IJhre

ceftor; one who in any degree of afcend-

ing genealogy precedes another.

The cuftom of the people of God, and the decrees oi our forefathers, are to be ktpt, touching
thofe things whercot the Scripture hath neither one

time of need,
A man Ihould fix and forearm his mind with (his
whatfoever is
oiferedto his imagination tends only to deceive. Stutb.
that, during

In
[fore and cafk.']
part where the foremaft

Ytouiiomtforefather grief; mine is not fo. SbeikJ^,

and is divided from the reft of
the floor by a bulk-head that part of the
foiecnjile which is aloft, and not in the
hold, is called the prow.
Harris.
The commodity of the new cook-room the mer-

And madly play with myforefalbers joiMsl Shakfp.

To prognofticate

;

Ihips, the

To foreknow; to be prefclent of; to

}'ofe.

To Forefe'nu. v. a. [It is doubtful whe-

is

from for prohibitory fccuOf the two following
examples one favours _/&r, and the other

of opinion, that the alteration men-

forearm :

To (hut up; to preclude; to prevent.

/""•^

The embargo with Spain foreclofed this trade,
Carevj.

To Foredesi'gn.

To FoREDo'. T. a. [from for and do, not
fore.]
_
1. To ruin ; to deftroy.

A word obfolete.

Befeeching him, if cilher falvcs or oils,
Kforedone wight from door of death might raife.
He would at her rc<iui;il prolong her ncplicw's days.
Fairy Q^ecn.
That drew on men God's hatred and his wrath.
And many fouls in dolours hiiforedtne.
Fairy ^.
This doth betoken
The corfc they follow did with defperate hand

hard

Foredoiy^ own life.

Sbakefptare's Hamlet.

This is the ni^ht

faft

That either makes me, or foredoes me quite.
2,

To overdo

Stall.

to weary ; to harrafs.
Whilft the heavy ploughman fooars
All with weary taffc foredone.
Shaiefptttre.
;

To FoREDo'oM.

"v. a.

to avert.

Down with the nofe,
Down with it flat take the bridge quite away
:

Oi him, that, his particular to forefend.

All the ftcps of tlie growth and vegetation both
of animals and plants, have been forefeen and y^rt-dcjigned ^y K\\i vi\h Author of nature.
Cheyne.

L'Ejirange.

;

To provide for j to fecure.

2.

To plan beforehand.

A foreknower.

.

would not kill thy unprepared fpirit;
No, has'asforefend ! 1 would not kill thy foul.
Shaiefp,
Perhaps a fever, which the gods forefend,
May bring your youth to lome uuciniely end. Dryd,

anteriour part of the (hip.
Chapman's Odyjfey,
<v.a. [yor^ and dejign.]

.,

1

To For E c L OS E a Mortgage, is to cut off
the power of redemption.
Fo'redeck. n. f. [fore and deck."] The
went, and thence did look

,

To prohibit

1.

2•

to the foredeck

if

pity ; as ftrbid.

To FoRECLo'sE. f. a. [fore and clofe.^

delivering his prediflions, fets up for iforeboJer.

JDan. xi.

If fron*
ther iromfire or for and difcnd.
it implies antecedent provifion; a»

fore,

Oppofed to making happy.

He OiaU/irrrd/ his devices againft ibc llrong holds.

I

tioned in thatyorcf/Vcf/paflTage is continued. Arbistb.

Yogi raven has a reputation in the world for a
bird of omen, and a kind of fmall prophet: a crow
that had obfcrved the raven's manner and way of

thel'e barbarous' buildings, une

cannot but fancy what miracles of architecture they
would have left us, had they been intruded in the
Addifon en Italy*
right way.
his great yirr/atZwrf ev'ry grace
Blefl Peer
Pope,
Reftedling, and reueclcd in his race.

before, or above.

a foothfayer.

by.
Not far away he hence doth won
Foreiy a fouittic, where 1 late him left. Faiiy ^.
Wo Foreca'st. f. a. [fre and ca/?.]
I. To fcheme ; to plan before execution.

/£«-rj have been at in

\.ht\r forecaJileSf

elefted.

[(torn forebode.']

Fore bt'. /rr/. [/ori* and ^.] Near;

Addifon.

FoREC 1' r ED. part, [fare and cite,] Quoted

I.

not be dilttaught,

When a man fees the prodigious pains our frefa^

FoRECHo'sEN./ar/. [fore and chofen.] Pre-

I

feel a fccret fcnfe of fomething future.
Fate makes yoa deaf, while 1 in vain implore :
My hcsrtfriodei I ne'er thall fee you more. Dryd,
My iaaXforhnJcd t Ibould lind the bow'r
Of fome fell monfter, tieite with barb'rous pqjv'r.

;

cook-rooms are built in

1

Our ixzzx. forefatbfrs
Had left him nought to conquer but his country.

contrary to that which had been anciently ufed.
Rtleigh's EJfays.

For rocky Scylla,

Dryden.

Shall

chants have found to be fo great, as that, in all their

to foretell.

With ihiStforeboding words retrains their hate.

n. f,

tliat

;

An ancient augur, Ikill'd in future fate.

A prognofticator

is

cannot

it

Conceit is dill deriv'd

his pailion,

He forearms his cue
With rules to pulh his fortune, or to bear. Dryden.
yi Forebo'de. "v. n, [fore and bade.\^

men to know from

be difplealing to underltand the place of our tirll anRaleigh's H{ftory.
ceilor.

Greaves

[fore v\i arm.']
To
provide for attack or refinance before the

If it be a generous defire in

One

To order beforehand.
To Forea'rm. "V. a.

Hooker.

way or other given us charge.

\{xoVi forecaft,]

Jo For E A P P o'l N T. o). n.\_fore and af-point.']

;

Forefa'ther. n.f. [fore znA father.] An-

whence their ovfnforefatbers have come,

a fhip,

and athjice.^

time ofaftion, or the event.
Thus to have faid.
As you ^tnforead'ois'd had touched his Ipirit,
And tried his inclination. S/jakefpeare's Corioianus.

by

Shakefpeare's Cymieline.
lo the fore-end of it, which was towards him»
Bacon^
palm.
green
branch
of
grew a fmall

fiands,

To counfel early; to connfel before the

2.

The_/i.rf-<7<:/of my time.

who contrives beforehand.

in compofition.

Ta FoREADVi'sE.

1 .

n. f. [fore and end,]
anteriour part.
I have liv'd at honed freedom ; paid
More pious debts to heaven than in all

Fo'recastle. n. f.

fome examples (hall be given. A vitious
ortliography has confounded fi,r and fore

The

Fore-e'nd.

Fofe.

Foreca'ster. »./.

2. fore is a word much ufed in compofition to mark priority of time, of which

Forebo'der.

Dryden,
Here Britain', llatci'mcn oft the fall foredoom
Pope,.
of
and
nymphs
at
home.
foreign
tyrants,
Of

this on to age.

Raleigh's Ejjayi.

out.

2.

Dryden,

Mem'ry iai fotecaji ]\i&. returns engage;
That pointed back toyoutli,

if favour'd by thy fate.

fife foredoom' J, and all things lend
By couife of time to their ap|X>inted end.

1

Anteriorly; in the part which appears

1,

^

Fo'ricast.

y&RE. ad-v.

perfuafion,

;

And whatfo heavens in their fecret doom
Ordained have, how can frail flelhy wight
f'.recaji, but it mult needs to ill'ue come ? Stenfer.
When broad awake, (he (inds in troublsou nit,
Forecajiing how his foe he might ann.>y. Fairy

Relirtance in fluids arifes from their greater preffing on tiic/cre than hiud part of the bodies moving

1.

To form fchemes

to contrive beforehand.

motion.

'

Dryden's JSil.
The willing metal will obey thy hand.

Thou istforedoem'd to view the Stygian ftare.

It is wifdom to confider the end of things before
we embark, and loforecajl confequences. L'Eftrange.

Ta Foreca'st. v. rt.

To Latium, and the ttiXmtforedoom'dhy Jove.
Following with eale ;

To forefec; to provide againft.

3.

in a progreflive

in them.

Through various hatards and events vn ltMi«

z. To adjuft; to contrive antecedently.

Bacon.

fire lines from the tirft local imprcilion.

That which comes

FOR

FOR

FOR

[fore and doom.\

To

predellinate ; to dctcrmina beforehand.

Shalefp.

Smells from the gen 'ral yeal.

G E R tt.f. [fore and f'iger.] The
linger next to the thumb ; the index>

For E F

1

' iN

.

An agate (lone
On the forefinger t>i an alderman.

Sbakejpeare.
were, ading her
Peactan on Dratving,
fpecch with hit fortftJtger .
Some wear this on ihe middle tinger, as the ancient Cauls and Britons; and fome upon iXk fore-

Polymnia Ihall be drawn, as

it

Bro-wn.

finger.

Jo'refoot. n.f. ^\<it. forefeet, [fore and
The. anteriour foot of a quadrufoot.]
:
in contempt, a hand.
Give me thy hft, thy frefo:i/ to me give, Sbak.
He ran fiercely, and fmote at Heliodorus with his
2 Mac. iii. ZJ.
frcfeet.
1 continue my line from thence to the heel ^
then making the breafl with the eminency thereof>
bring out his near yirr/i,)/, which 1 linilh.
Feaeham on Draining,

ped

To Forego',
I .

-v.

a. [fore

To quit; to give up

;

and^o.]

to refign.

To be fo CTUcl to an humble foe

FOR

FOR

FOR

The bread of Hecuba,

1j it hern«ture, oris it her will.

When (he did fuckle Heflor, look'd not lovelier

?

then (he may it mend with ftill {
If will, then (he at will ; \yvi\\\ forego. Sfxnfcr.
Having all before abfolutcly in his power, it rejnaiueih fo ftill, he haying already neither forgiven
nor foregone any thing thereby unto them, but hav-

Than He&oi'sforebead when it fpit forth blood

ing received fomething from them.
He is a great adventurer, laid he,

Her cheeks fuch bliilhes calt, fuch rays lier eyes.

If oiture,

Impudence; confidence; affurance; aii-

2.

dacioufnefs ; audacity.

Fairy S^a.

Special reafon oftentimes caufeih the will to pretcr
«nc gooJ thing before another ; to 1 avc one for another's fake, to forego meaner for the attainment of

Hooter.
Mull I needs foregt

So good, fo noble, and fo true a mailer.

Siiakiff.

Tbatibr a trifle which was bought with blood.

would fain know to what branch of the legiflaSivift.
ture they can have the frebead 10 apply.
FoRSHo'ldinc. ». /. [fore and hold.]

Sbakefpeare.
yiovifirega
Thy fweet converfc, and love fo dearly join'd

To live again in thefe wild woods forlorn

!

Predictions ; ominous accounts ; fupeifti-

Milton.

This argument might prevail with you to Jorego
a little of your repofe for the publick benefit. Drjid.
What they have enjoyed with great pleafure atone
time, has proved inlipid or naufcous at another ; and
therefore they fee nothing in it for which they (hould
Lorke.
forego a prefcnt enjoyment.

To go before; to be paft.

•.

[itota fore

and^o.]

How are fuperftitious men bagged out of their
wits with the fancy of omens farcboldings, and old
VEfirange.

wives tales.

[forain, French, forano,
Spanifh ; itomforis, Latin,
1. Not of this country ; not tlomeftick.
Your fon, that with a fearful foul
This fair alliance quickly Ihall call home. Shakefp.
The learned correfpondence you hold in foreign

Sbakejp.
It is to be underftood of Cain, that niany years
foregone and when his people were inctcafed, he
Siale.gh.
built the city of Enoch.
Refleft upon the two_/<irffo/wg objeflions. Hojii.
Thii forrgi/ng rem:irk gives the reafon «hy imiDryden'i Dufrefnoy.
tation pleafes.
I was feated in my elbow-chair, where I had inAddijon.
dulged the foregoing fpeculations.
lo the foregoing part of ibis work I promilcd
H^coavjard.
proofs.

parts,

Miilon.

The pofitions are fo far from being new, that they
are commonly to be met with in both ancient and
modern, domeftick and yorr/^w writers. Attetbury.
The partif s and divifions amongrt us may fevcral
ways bring deftrud>ian upon our country, at the fame
tiihe that our united force would fecurc us againit all
the attempts of t foreign enemy.
Addifon's Freeh.

Alien; remote; not allied not belonging ; without relation. It is often ufed
with to; but more properly with yr<i»i.
;'

To lofe.

3.

I

This is the very ecftafy of love,

Foreco'er. «. /. [itota forego.

'\

that we have no faculty in tfie foul adapted to it, nor

Aaceftor;

progenitor.

anv organ in Ihe body to relilh it, placed out of the
polTibility of fruition.

Honours bed thrive.

This

When rather from our afls we them derive

thmighls,

Than Our forigoert.

Sbakfp.

Fon'tCRoUND. n.f. [fore and ground.] The
part of the field or expanfe of a pifture
which feems to lie before the figures.
All ajrce that white can fubfift on the foreground
of the ptdurc : the queftion therefore is to know,
if it can equally be placed upon that which is backward, tlic light being univerfal, asd the figures fupDryden.
pofed to be in an open field.

Fo'rehand, n.f. [fore and hand.]
1. The part of a horfe which is before the
rider.

he chief part. Not in nfei
The great Achilles whom opinion crowin
The finew and the forebund of our hoft. Sbakejp.

2.

'1

Fo'rehand. adj. Done fooner than is reYou'll fay Ihe did embrace me as a hulband,
Aod fo extenuate xhefrehand fin.
Skakefjeare.

Foreha'ndf.d. n.f. [from yor^ and *a«d'.]
Early ; timely.

timely diligence, to redeem the time.

'Ttiylor.

Formed in the foreparts.
He's a fubftaniiat- true-bred beaft, Vravely forekanded: mark but the cleannefs of his Ihapes too.
Dryden.

Fo'reheao. n.f. [frezadbead.]
I . That part of the face which reaches from
the eyes upward to tbe hair.

Addifor.

not foreign

from fome

peoples

not

admitted;

held at a

They will not flick to fayyou envied him;
And fearing he would rife, he was fo virtuous,
Keplhim a foreign rain ftill; which fo gricv'd liim.
That he ran mad and died.
Shakeff, Henry VIII.

[Inlaw,]

A foreign plea, placitum forin-

fecuKi ; as being a plea out of the proper

5.

court of juftice.
Extraneous ; adventitious in general.
There are who, fondly ftudious of increafc.
Rich foreign mould in their iU-natur'd land
Phillips,

Induce.

Fo'reicner. n.f. [{torn foreign.] A man
that' comes from another country ; not a

So meer a ftranger to my ilioughts 1 know
DenbanCs Svphy.
Not how to cniertaiti him.

To this iAdfreigner you give your thridie.
Dryden'i j^n.
the osly native of England made uli: of

in punch , but the lemon?, the brandy, the fugsr,
Addifon.
and the nutmegs, arc all frtignert,
Nor could the majctty ol the Englifh crown ap-

pear in a greater lullre, either lo foreigners or fubjeits.

Sviift.

ReFo'REir.NESS. n.f. [{tort\ foreign.]
moienefsi want of relation to fomethin?.

[fore

and ^wivt]

We fsreknoiv that the fun will rife and fet, that
all

men born in the woild Ihall die again ; that afier

Winler the

fpring ihall

come; 'after the

Spring,

Summer and Harveft ; yet is not our foreknowledee
RjJeigh.

the caufe of any of thole.

He foreineif/ John fliould not fuffer

a violent
Braaun,
death, but go into his grave in peace.
Calchas the lacrcd feer, who had in view
Things prefcnt and the paft, and things to come

Dryden's Iliad.

forekite-uj.

Not know/ng, we but Ihare our part of woe. Dryden.

For e k no'w able. adj. [from foreknonu. ]
Poffible to be known before they happen.
It

it

what they will do in
More.
n. f. [fore and kntnv-

QtiK^\i\\s foreiinotiL'iible

fuch and fuch circumftanccs.

For E K N o'w L E D G E

.

knowledge of that
which has not yet happened.
Prefcience ;

Icdge.]

Our being in Chrift by

eternal foreknoivledgn

favcth us not without our adtijal and real adoption
into the fellowlhip of his faints in this piefeiit world.

Hooker.
I

told

him you was aflecp; he feems to have »

forelno-wledge of that too, and therefore chufeS to
Sbakef,
fpeak with you.
If 1 foreknew,

Foreknowledge had no influence on their fault,
Which had no lefs prov'd certain unforeknown..
Milton.
I hope the foreknoiuledge you bad of my efteein
fcr you, is the reafon that you do not diUike mjr
Pope.
letters.

montory

;

A

proheadland ; high land jutting

Fo'reland. n. f. [fire and land,]

into the fea ; a cape.
As when a ftiip, by (kilful ftcerfman wrought.
Nigh river's mouth, ot foreland, where the wind
Vtcrs oft, as oft lo fteeis, and (hifts her fails.

Miltonf
[fore atAlay.]
lay wait for; to intrap by ambufli.
1.
A fcrpent Ihoots his lling at unaware
An ambulb'd thiefyoif/a^r a traveller
The man lies murUer'd while the thief and fnakSt
One gains the thickets, and one thrids the brake.
Dryden,

To Forela'v.

ev.a.

2.

To contrive antecedently.

To

'V. a. [fore zad li/i,]
any interiour part.

To Fo'relift.
raife aloft

So dreadfully he towards him did pafs,
Forelifiing up aloft his fpecklcd breaft ;
And often bounding on the bruifcd gr.ifs,
As for great joy of his ncw-tomen gueft.

Spenfcr.

[fore avA lock,] The hair
that grows from the forepart of the head.

Fo'relock. »,/.

Tell her the joyous time will not be ftaid.
Sperftr,
Unlefs (he do him by the frclock take.

Joy is fuch a foreigner.

Water is

a.

To

diftance.

4..

rv.

To have prefcience of; to forefee.

Sivift.

Excluded;

3.

it

And wroiig'd a friend, a kinlman, and a fon.

If by thus doing you have not fecured your time
by an early and frthanded care, yet b« i\ire, by a

2.

dcliga

native; a ftranger.

gular.

I.

mull dilTcmble,

And fpeak a language /nf/gn 10 my heart. Addifn.
Fame is a good Co whoilvyi«(]{« to our natures,

Whofe violent po^^ny foregoes itfelf.
And leaves the will to defpciate undertakingt. Shak.

a.

to prejudge.

FO'REIGN. adj.

2.

<v.

Who would the miferies oiraxa foreknow f

By our remembrances o(diy$ foregone.
Such were our faults : O tlicn we thought them
not.

[fore zs\^ judge.]
To judge beforehand ; to be prepoffefled;

tious prognoftications.

Leads difcontented fteps in foreign foil.
!

Camden's Remains.

To Foreju'doe.

A

man of confidence prcffeth forward upon evefy
appearance of advantage j where hi»force is too feebW, he prevails by dint of impudence: thefe meii of
forehead are magnihccnt in promifes, «nd infallible
CoUier.
in their prefcriptions.

[fore d^i ima-

a.

We are within compafs of a foreimagined pofTibi-

the part on which fhame vifibly operates.

!

<v.

To conceive or fancy before proof.

gi'ie.]

The forehead is To Forekn'ow.

I

Lei us not forego

To Foreima'cine.

lily in that behalf.

Such majcfty does from \\cr forehead rife.

Dryden.

Of that defpite, never to wearen none.

How can I live without thee

And moulded ev'ry -feature from my face

Spt-ftfer,

That hath his fword through hard nKi-t foregone
And now hath vowed, till he avenged be

higher degrees.
Mali I then leave you >

At Grecian fwords contending. Sh.-tkefp. CorioUnus.
Some angel copy'd, while 1 flept, each grace,

Let Bot </asforelgBnefs of the fuSjeft hinder y«u
from endeavouring to fct me right,

Hyacinihine lot ks,

Round 'lom his parteij forelock manly hung,
Cluft'ring, but not beneath his Ihoulder's broad.

Milton,
'tv are not flow.
Zeal aiul
Milt.
But on ocadow'zf'.irLck w.itchful w.ia.
Time is painted witli a lock bclorit, and bald behind, fignilyiiig tlicrcby llul we muit lake time by
the forelock j lur vhen it is once pult, iliete is no
.1

Sivi/t.

recalling it,

Fo'r e m a n, n.f. \fo) e and man.] The fir'it or
chief perfon.

He is a very fenfible man, rtioots flying, and
been fcveial titaes fn eman ol the pelt; jmy

cla

'

a-,

A.:>i.j.

FoREMK'KTJvtttD,

FOR
Forb'mehtioned.
tioiuJ.]

[fore and tneu-

adj.

Mentioned or

recited before.

It is obfervable that many participles are

compounded whh fere, whofe verbs have
no fuch compofition.
Dacier, in the

life

of Aurelius, has not taken

tiotice of the /ortiKenliontJ figan on the pillar.

AJdifon on Italy.

Fo'remost. adj. [frorayir/.]
1. Firftin place.
All three were fct among the foremojl ranks of
fame, for great minds to attempt, and great force
Sidney.
to perform what they did attempt.
Our women in Xhefcremoji ranks appear;
March to the fight, and meet your millrefs there.
Drydin.

The bold Sempronius,
That (till broke foiemojl through

the

crowd of

patriots.

As with a hurricane of zeal trinfported,
Add'ifitt's Calo.
And virtuous even to midnefs
1

Firft in dignity.

2.

Thcfe wiifiremaft in the field.
As they OMforemcJl rank of honour held. Drydcn.
Forena'med. adj. [/ore and uame.^ No-

Such is the treaty which he negociates with us, an
ofifer and tender of a reconciliation, an aft of oblivion, of all fjrifajl fins, and of a new covenant.
Hammond on t'ui.JanuKtals.

[fire and pofffs.]
Preoccupied ; prepoffefled ; pre-engaged.

FoRErossE'ssED.

dian, to the meridian : oppofed to afiernaoti.

The manner was, that the forenoon ihey (hould
run at tilt, the cfteinccn in a broad field in manner of a battle, 'till either the itraiigers or the
Sidney.
country knights won the field.
Curio, at the funeral of his father, built a temporary theatre, confifting of two parts turning on

To fliorten figures for the fake of ihewing

what is pad, only by conlcioulhefs.

JLoif:e.

The forum was a publick place in Rome, where
lawyers and orators made their fpeeches before the
proper judges in matters of property, or in criminal
cafes : thence all forts of difputations in courts of
their dilliniH

Speeches, may come under the name o{firenJick difHulls on the Mind.
putes.

To ForeoRDa'in. "v.a. [fireznA ordain.']
predetermine ;

to

jjreordain.
The church can difcharge, in manner convenient,
a work offo great import incc, hy firtorduining
fome Ihort colled wherein briefiy to mention thanks.
thiker.

Forepart. ». yi [fore &nA fart.']
1. The part firft in time.
Had it been fo raifed it would deprive us of the
'
fun's light all the/sr«/i<jr/ of the day.
Rultigl).
2,

To place antetiour in place.
The ribs have no cavity in them, and towards
thtforefari or breaft are broaJ and thin, to bend
and give way wiihjut danger of fraflure.
Ray.

FoKirA'sr adj. [fre and fafi.] Pad before
a certain time.

Now ceafe, ye damfels, your Mights firejia/l
Enough it is that all the day is your's.
Spcnfer.
Myfortpafl proofs, howe'er the matter fall.
Shall tax my fears of little vanity,
Iljving vaiiUy fcar'4 loo liltie.

and he forbids the forejhorrenings, bccajfe
they make the parts appear little, Dryden's Dufoefo

Ta Fo'reshow. I'.a. [fore zad fAciu.}

To difcover before it happens

1 .

Sbakeffeare,

;

to ptc-

diit ; to ptognofticatc
Clirift liad called him to be a witneftof his death,

binger.
Bat heavinefsyorfKm the good event.

and refurredion from the dead, according to tlut
which tlie prophets and Mofes had forefooived.

Sbakejf.

The fun

Hooker^

Was fet, and twilight from the Eaft came on,
Miiton's Paradt/e Lojl.

Forerunniftg night.

She bids me hope : oh heav'ns, ihe pities me

!

And
Dryden.
As lightning docs the thunder,
2. To precede ; to have the ftart of.
2.
I heard it to be a maxim at Dublin to follow, if
pity ftiU foreruns approaching love,

oat forerun, all that is or will be praSifed in LonGraunt,
don.

Foreru'nnep. }i. f.
I.

Next, Hke Aumra, Spcnfer rofe,
Whofe purple blufh the diy forejle^vs.
Denbam.
You chole to withdraw yourfclf from publick bufinel's, when the face of heaven grew troubled, and
the freijuent (bifting of the. mnifirejhowed a Itoim.

Dryden.

To rcprefent before it comes.

What ell'e is the law but the %ai^\ forejhrwcd ?
Wlut otlicr the gofpel than the law lulnlled ?
Hooker.

[iiomfareruTt.]

An harbinger; a meflenger fent before to
give notice of the approach of thofe that
follow.

Fo'resicht. w. /. [fore i.Vid fight.']
I. Prefcience; prognoftication ; foreknowledge. The accent anciently on the laft
fyllable.
Let Eve, for I have drench'd her eyes.
Here lleep below ; while thou to forefight wak'ft;)
As once ttiou flecp'il whillllhe to lite wasform'd.

The fix ftrangcrs fcek for you, madam, to take
their leave ;

and there

is

a foreru/incr come from a

Shaieffiere.
feveuth, the prince of Morocco^
cock was facrificed as the forerunner of day

and the fun, thereby acknowledging the light of life
to be derived from the divine bounty, the daughter of
Stillingjfeet.
Providence.
My elder brothers, m'jforerur.ners came,
Rough draughts of nature, ill defign'd and lame :
Blown ofti like blolToms never made to bear j
Dryd.
'Till I came finifh'd, her laft labour'd cire.

Be-

This
beyond prefent exigence to

•»

fore molt;

Shakeff,

thing following ; to introduce as an har-

Perfon is ifircnfick ter.Ti, appropriating adions ajid
their merit; and fo belongs only to intelligent agents,

to

thofe behind.

The greatcft parts of the body ought to appear

To Foreru'n. 1:0. [fore znd rrtn.]
1. To come before as an earneft offome-

longing to courts of judicature.

;

[fore vad rank.]

Bid him recount
Thtforereciled pradiices whereof
We cannot feel too little, hear too much,

Hywt'r's Trapfdifs,

To predeftinate

;

Oh bill, forejhaming
Thofe rich-lelt iieirs, that let their fathers lie
Without a monument.
Sliakrfpeare's Cymbelin.

A

capable of a law, and happinefs and milcry.

Jiacsn.

To FoRESHAM't. -v. a. [fore zvid fhame.]
To ihame to bring reproach upon.

FoRERECi'tkd. adj. [fore and recite.]
Mentioned or enumerated before.
^

but either heaven or earth gives io-mz fit mdtia otit.

Latin.]

muA forefte to a canve>

terior part of the (hip.
The Ibipmen wmild have calt anchors out of the
forejbip.
Afls, xxvii. 30.
To For esiio'rten.. 1;. a. [foreaadjIforieK.]

So ftrangc a revolution never happens in poetry,

where feveial perfons make

A

king againll a llorm
nient ttoctc ot treafurc.

Yet leaveour Coufin Catherine here with us
She is our capital demand, compris'd
Shjkcffi.
Within theyirrruBi of our articles.

n. f,

rank ; front.

[fore znA mtice,'\ Information of an event before it happens.

juftice,

And thieat'ning oracles denounce the war.
Dry J,
To provide for ; with to. Out of ufc.

To Fo'RESHiiw. •v.^a. [See Foreshow.]
Fo'reship. //./. [fore -dad Ji if ^\ The an-

Foieno'tice. ». /.

{icrfonality extends itfelf

2.

Firft

Fo'rerakk.

hinges, according to the polifion ot the fun, for the
conveuiency ofjorenci/t's and afternoon's divcrfion.
jirl/uthnot an C'Ans.

adj. [foreitjis,

Their feers behold the tempeft" from afar,

Againft ill chances men are ever merry \

As Curius and the/srf«d»ifrf Lentulus. Benjotif.
Fo'renoon. n. f. [fore and »offa.] The
time of day reckoned from the middle
point, between the dawn and the meri-

Fore'ksick.

adj.

The teftimony either of the ancient fathers, or
of other claflical divines, may be clearly and abundantly anfwercd, to the faiisfadion of any rational
man, not ti.tn.mi:\)firefoJfeJJid with prejudice.
Sandcrfon.

minated before.
And fuch are fure ones,

•

FOR

F G R

1.

Aprognoftick; a figa forcQiowing any
thing.

O Eve

!

Forerunners o\ hiS purpofc. Milton^s Paradife LoJl.
Lofs of fight is the milery of life, and ufually the
South.
forerunner oi ieixh.
The keeping infenfible perCpiration up in due meafure is the caufe as well as fign of health, and the
leaft deviation from that due quantity, the certain
Arbuthnot.
forerunner of a difcafe.
Already Opera prepares the way.
The {^xeforerunner of her gentle fway.
Fope.

xcid fayf]
predift ; to prophecy ; to foretell.

To

Let ordinance

Come as the %oi^ foref.ty it. Sbakejpeare^s Cymhel.
To FoRese'f. 'V. a, [fore md/ee.]
I. To fee beforehand; to fee what has not
yet happened ; to have prefcience ; to
foreknow.
The titft of them could things to eome forefce ;
The next, could of things prefent bell advifc ;
The third, things paft could keep in memory.
fairy S^ueen.
If there be any thingyiir/je»

that

is

Provident care of futurity.
He had a (h^rpforifgbty and working wit,.
That nevpr idle was, ne once could reft a whit.
Sfenfer.

In matters of arms he was both ikilful and inand as well inyir^gi/ as refolulion prefent and great.
Hjyvurd.
DiificuUics and temptations will more ealily be

duftrious,

borne or avoided, if with prudent forejight we arm
ourfclves agaiiill them.
Rogers.

fome further change awaits us nigh.

Which heav'n, by thefe mute figns in nature,. fhews

To Foresa'v. a>. a. [fore

Miltii:.

z.

not ufual,

be armed for it by any hearty though a (hort prayer,
and an earneft rcfolutiuii beforehand, and then watch
Taj/or.
when it comes.
At h'lsfore/eeti approach, already quake
The Caff ian kingdoms and Meotian lake

Foresi'ghtful.. adj. [forefight lind full.]
Prefcient ; provident.
Death gave him no fuch pangs as the _/j>r{/rgi//»/
caie he had of his filly fucceflbr.
Sidney.

7e Foresi'gnifv.. 1;, a. [fore aad/tgiiify.]
To betoken beforehand; to forefiiow
to typify.
Difcoveries of Chrift already prefent, whofe future
coming the pfalms did \i\xtfortjignfy.
Hoaker
Yet as being paft times noxious, where they light
On man, beali, plant, wallcful and turbulent.

They ait forejignify and threaten ill.
Fo'resk.in. n.f. [fore and^v*.]
puce.
Their own hand

Milur..

The pre-

An hundred of the foe (hall flay.
And for a dow'r their huwiieifortftlns pay,
Be Michol thy reward.
Coiily'sDavideis,
Fo'reskirt. H./. [fores.ndjiirt.] The pendulous or loofe part of the CMt before.

A thoufand pounds a year for pure ixfpcd

I

No other obligation?
That promifcs more thoufands: honour's train
Is longer than hisforefiirt. Shakrffeare's H. Vllf.

To FoRESLACK. 1;. a. [fare xadflac\.\ To
ncglcil by idlenefs.
It

FOR

FOR
good an opporlilnily ViS
omitted, and fo happy an occation fmf/lacktd^ that
mijht have been the eternal good of the land.
Ktenftr^i Slate ^f Inland.

To FoRESLo'w, -v. a. \tire andy/s^a-.]
t.

To delay;

to hinder;

to

impede; to

obftruft.
No dream, no wood, no mountain zoMforrJlmv
TIjeir hafty ^'i'^.c,

J-'ahJ'.ix.

Now the illudrious nymph return'd ag^iin.

Tonegleft; to omit
When the rebels were on Blackheath, the king

knowing well that it Rood him open, by ho\v mttch
•he more he had hitherto piotraSed the time in not
encountering them, by lo much the fooncr to difpatch with them, tliat it might appear to have been
no coldaefs in forcJlbV;ing, but w ildum in chuling
his time, rclblved with fpecd to aflall tbera.

Bacon^s Hatry VII.

Our good ^TpSci furrjl'.'ieid are become our tor-

hath power to grant coramflion toajuftice
in eyre for the fereji ; the courts ; the
offitsrs for preferving the vert and venifon, as the juftices of theycrty?, the warden
or keeper, the verders, the foreftcrs,

mentors upon our death-bed.
Bijhi.p Hull.
Ctiremc^, how many filhcrs do you know

That rule their boats arid ufc their nets aright.
That neither wind, nor lime,, not Mtfifrjlmv ;

Some fuah bare been: but, ah! by tempefis fpite
'i'heii boaii are loft; while we may fit and moan
That few were fuch, and now thefe few are none.

agiftors, regarders, bailiffs,

P. Finch.

7q Foreslo'w, -v. n.

To be dilatory

;

Corwel.

CanJen'i Remains.

Thou hiftforefpoit my being in ihefe wars,
And fay'ft it is not tit.
Shaktffi. Am. and deaf.

Forespe'nt. adj. [ [foreand//>e»J.]
i.WafteJ; tired; fpent.

According le ilic honour of his fender;
And rewards himfelf.hiigooducfs/or^/^jwon us,
We murt eitind our notice.
Statr/feare.

\Jbre ind//ur.]

One

Peihaps the faft
Is not fo heinous nov;,foretajled {r\x\t,

Profan'd firft by theferpent, by him firft
Made common, and unhallow'd, ere our tafte.

Milton.

Fo'retaste. »./. Anticipation of.
.\ pleafure that a man may call as properly his
own as his foul and his confcience, neither liable to

accidenr, nor expofed to injury
\t.\%\!a.tforelBjii>ai
heaven, and the earned of eternity.
South.
:

To Forete'll. v. a. preter. and part; paiT.
foretold., [fore and tell. ]

Sbaiefp.

As if tliou mad'fl thy will,

Herbert,

From point to point, as after it befell.

\

Fofe.

To foretoken; to forefhow.
To Forete'll. "v.
To utter prophecy.
ft.

All the prophets from Samuel, and ihofe that
fallow after, have \\)i.tvnit foretold of thefe days.
Afti, iii. 4.

Forete'ller. «./. [itom foretell,] Predifter ; forefhewcr.
Others are propofcd, not that the foretold event*
(hould be known ; but that the accomplifhment that
eipounds them may evince, that the foreteller of
them was able to forefee thee.
Boyle on Colours.

Haih wilclierarm'd his vengeful iie, ihanfo

To \x.fnrftall<d.

.\ wild uncoltivated traft

of grotmd 5n-

terfperfed with wood.

By many iribulaiions we enter into the kingdom
of heaven, becaufe, in zfareji of many wolves, (heep
cannot chufe but feed in continual danger of life.

Milion-t Furadift LcJI.

To Fo R e th i'n K. V. a. [fore and think.]

Hiioker,

,

Matbeih Ihall never vamjuiOt'd he, juntil
Oreat Birnham-wood to Uunfiaaoe't high hill
Shall come againd him.

Liifii his earth-bound root, ^bake/ptart'i

Macitib
There be airs which the phyiicuns advife their
remove unto, «hich commonly are plain

patieiiu to

champaigns, hut graiing, and not overgrown with
heath ; or elfc timber-fliadci, as tnfarrfli.
Bacon.

How the hi^fireji rais'd its (hady l.cad.

Rcjnm.

A ceruin territory of woody

;

fciencc of.

ther; to buy before another in order to
raife the price.

Prophetically does /o«;i/«^ thy fall.
1 do pray to ihee,

Abandon \\\\i f'jreJhlU-d f\ict at crl^.
For fear of further harm, I counfel ihee. Fairy Shi.
4. To deprive by fonicthing prior; with

Not in ufe.
May

This nighi/or/^j//him of the comjngday.

The foul of every man
Sbakeff eare.

Thou'virtuous Dauphin, alter not the doom.
Firetbiughthf heav'n.
Sbakefpeare' s King fohn.
Adam could not be ignorant of the punilhments.^
due to 'iieplcdt and difobcdicnce; and felt, by the
proof thereof, in himlclf another terror than he had
forethought, or could imagine.
Raleigh.
when next it came,
Friday, the fatal day
HiafouiybM/iiwa^A' the fiend would chaugehis game.

FoRESi a'ller. w./. [ijom firijlall.] One

Dryd.
z.

that anticipates the market; one that pur-

.

To contrive antecedently.
BlefTcd be that

God which haih given you an

heart toforetbink this, and a will to honourhim with

Gjmmodilies good or bad, the workman mull
lake at bis mader's ralc.or fit llilland ftaivej whilft,
by this means, this new

to have pre-

1

Sbak.

chafcs before others to raife the price.

:

Who can imprcft ihe/srr/?, bid the treo

To anticipate in the raind

To feize or gain pofTeflion of before ano-

of.

Dryden,

When great Ulyfles fought the Phrygian ftiores,
Deeds then undone my faithful xanpxt foretold
Heaven feal'd my words, and you thole deeds behold. .
2.

He bold fpake, Sir knight, if knight thou be,

Italian.]

MilHr.

Mircia's king,

I .

As lhh/-re/furrer comet before his lord.

Sbak,

found

lang hiiJprelM.

Pafe,

FOREST, n. /. [forrft, French; fore/la,

to prophefy.

;

Wam'd in a dream, Ins murder ixi foretell

Of mifery, fo thinking to evade
The penally pranounc'd^doubt not but God

3.

To predift

The new-created world, which fame in heaven

V

A day in April never came To fwnt.

To tafte before another..

2.

1 wUlnoi/crr^.i// your judgment of the reit

To (how how coiUy Summer was at hand,

2. [In law. j

of.

Andgivcmen turns of fpecch ; do aotfortjlall
By lavilhncfs thine own and others wit,

To\>e fcrrfijlled tn we come to fall.
Or pardon 'd being down.
Sbakefpeare' t Hamltt
But tor my tean,
I hiifirefi.ill
ihis dear and deep rebuke.
Ere you with grief had fpoke.
Sbakefptare.
if thou covet death, as utmollend

that rides before.

Sidney.
\_fore and tafle.]

To have antepaft of; to have prefciencc

1

1

Fairy ^tieen.

We muft receive him

That will never be

of the ore of their garments.

To For eta'ste. r. a.

What's in thy prayer, but thk twofold lorce

B<;llowed before.

1.

heat.
Mifo and Mopfa, like a couple o^forefivat melwere getting the pure filver of their bodies out

ters,

SoiTtc dreadfhl dory hanging on thy tongue ?

And though good luck prolonged haih thy date.

^

Sbai,

What art thou, whofe heavy \oo^sfarelell

Yet death then would the l.ke milhap/ire/ti//.

Siai.
2. ForepafTed ; part. [fore3ind//>ei>t.]
Is not enough th^ evil hfcfiie/jieni f
Fairy
YOd Ihall had hii yimixz foTefpem,
Were but the outCde of the Ronun Brutus,
Covering diicrtiion with a colt of foil/.
Sbakeff.

by, upon the edge of yonder coppice.

An inhabitant of the wild country.

Fa'RESvvAT. ladj. [from yir and /lua/.
Fo'r E SWART.) iiomf'weat.'l Spent with

tion.

After him came fpurring hard

FoRESRv'lLRER. n.f.

2.

What need a mmf,tffiaU\>\% date of grief,
And rirn to meet what he would moft avoul. Mill.
z. To hinder by preoccupation or preven-

A jtentleman, 3tmoi\ forr/jpeiri with fpeeil.

3.

— Here

If thou be malicr-gunncr, ipend not all
That thou can'ft fpeak at once ; but hulband it,

OldCodfreyof Winchefter,.thinkcth no ominous

To forbid. [¥tom firan&//ieak.'\

Forever, my friend, where is the bufli.

That we may ftand and play the murtherer in ?

I .

To Foresta'll. <d. a. [popep:allan. Sax.]
I. To anticipate ; to take up beforehand.

foretell.

2.,

An officer of the foreft.

and beedlcs.

property of a foreji is the
fvvainmote, which is no lefs incident to
it than the court of pyepowders to a fair.

loiter.

yii-c/jpfji/ff^ tolieinnamei.

foreft.]
1

The chief

to

This may plant courage in their quailing breafts,
For yet is hope of life and viflory
t'crrjlotu no longer, make we hence amain.
Xbak.
To Forespe'ak. v. n. [/oreai\d//eai.]
1. To predict; to forefay ; to forefliow; to

And hath been tutor'd in the rudiments
Of defperate ftudies.
Sbakefp. As you Like it,
Fo'r ESTER, ti.f. [Far^yXrVr, French; from

:

;

.

This boy isforejlborttt

:

Brings every grace triumphant in her train
The wond'ring Nereids, though the;- rais'J no ftorm,
Fortjlm'd her pafluige lo behold her form. Dryden.

2.

FOR

grounds and fruitful paftures, privileged
for wild beafts, and fowls offire/is, chafe,
and warren, to reft and abide in, in the
fafc proteftion of the king for his pleafure.
The manner of making forefts is
this
the king fends out his conimiflTion,
direfted to certain perfons, for viewing,
perambulating, and bounding the place
that he has a mind to afforeft
which returned into Chancery, proclamation is
made, that none (hall hunt any wild
beads within that precintt, without licence ; after which he appoints ordinances, laws, and officers for the prefervation of the vert and venifon ; and this
becomes a forrft by matter of record.
The properties of a f'^reji are thefe ; a
foreft, as it is ftiiftly taken, cannot be
in the hands of any but the king, who

ft is a grjat pity rfiat fo

his own.

'

Bijhop Hall.

fo For ETHi'wK, V. n„ To Contrive before,

fort of ingroffers or forc-

hand.:

ftalhrt having the feeding and fupplying this numerous body of workmen, fet the price upon the
poor landholder.
Locke.

What'smy frenzy will becall'd my crime
What then is thine > Thou cool dclibcr.ite villain
Thou wih,forethinkiug, weighing politician
:

'

!

I

Forestbo'rn. adj. [foreft, and born.] Born

Smith,..

in a wild.

FoRBTHo'uCHT. »./. [ftOiaforethinL]
I,

5

I. Prefciencc

Prefciencc; anticipation.

/.

equallr undone, whether

He thit it undone, is

the folly
be by fpiiefulntfs of/jnihougbt, or by
VEJirangt.
ofoveriight, orevilcounlel.

it

2. Provident care.
Tfl Forkto'ken.

Tq forelhow

;

[fore and

a.

'V.

toiett-l

to prognofticate as a fign.

The king from Ircl and hjftes ; but did no good

;

Foreto'ken. »./. [from the verb.]

may prove fome ooimant foreiohea of misfor-

Thev mifliked nothing mote in King Edward tlie
acConfcffor, than that he was Frenchified, and
counted the defire of torei5;i language then to be a

hretokn
'

of bringing in of foreign

which

povrers,

CamJcn's Rmahn.

indeed happened.

The

[forezndfootb.]

ti.f.

tooth in the anterior part of the mouth

of a
I. Something loft by the commifllon
crime; foraething paid for expiation of a
crime ; a fine; a mulcl.

whofe

Now obfolete.

Fo'retop. n.j: [fore and /»/>.] That part
of a woman's head-drefs that is forward,
or the top of a periwig.
S» may your h.it! your firriofs never prefs,
t'nteuch'd your ribbons, fatred be your drefs.

Dryil.

FoREVo'uCHED. part, [fore and vouci.]
Affirmed before ; formerly told.

,

whom you (hall fear

:

fear

him which, after he hath killed, hath power to call
Lutcxn.s.
into hell.
^

To inform

of any future

event.
Divine interpreter, by favour fent

Down ftrjm the empyrean, lo forewarn,
our lofs
•Us timely of what might elfe have been
Milton's Paradijc Loji.

tjoknown.

To caution againft any thing beforehand.

Rcjefled layfirefJarnin^, and difdain'd
Millon'i Paradife lx>ft.
Not to be trulled.
Tho' Phdbus had/irrti'ar«/'</him of linging wars,
Virg. Ded.
yet the fearch of nature was tree. Dryd.

j

Foreiuarn'd in vain by the prophetick maid. Dryd,
.'[
FoREWA*«TE. -J. a. [fore anA tunfli

To

Out of ufc.

Vcfpafian, with |rcat fpoil and rage,
Forfwafird all, until Cemiffa gent

Ftfy ^"«-

And ihaxxforcwttjled kingdom to repair.

Straight all his hopes eihal'd in empty fmoke.

-v. a. [forean^'weaij;.}

To difpirit with labour.
By your toil

And labour long, through which ye hither came.
Ye hotU forrwearifd be therefore a while
:

's

H

and to your bowers recoil. Fairy
.

V. a. [fore

Dryden.

And his long toils viexe forfeit for a look.

Methought with wond'rous cafe he fwaMow'ddown
Drydtn.
W\i forfeit honour, to betray the town.

How the murd'rer payed \n%forfeit breath

;

What lands fo diftant from that fcene of death.
Vofe's Odyffey.
But trembling heard the fame!
Fo'rpeitable. adj. [Itom forfeit. ^ Pof-

on conditions, by tHe breach of
which any thing may be loft.

Fo'rfeiture.

n. f.

[forfaiture.

French;

^

mA ivi/h. ] To

defire beforehand.

The wifcr fort ccafed not to what in them lay, to

Of burning Rome.

miltance into common ufe, or obuin the licence of
Loeke,
publick approbation.

To counterfeit

3.

well a Chancery

to fave

and de-

\ax foifeilurtt^ as a court of common law to decide
and tMre would be work enough in Gerrishts
many and Italy! 'f Impcrial/<>r/<://«r« (liould go for
Bacon's H'ar tuitb Spain.
good titles.
Ancient privileges and ads of grace indulged by
fotmer kings, mull not, without high reafon, be
revoked by their fucceflbrs ; nox forfeitures beexaiScJ
Taylor.
violently, nor penal laws urged rigoroully.

He fairly abdicates his throne,
Sviift.
He has iforfdture incurr'd.
Forga've. The preterite of forgive.'\

FORGE. «./. [forge, French.
I.

;

to falfify.

Were 1 king,
I ftiould cut olTlh: nobles for their lands;
For my more having would be but as fauce

To make me hunger more, that I ihanM forge
Quarrels unjud againd the good and loyal,
Sbakefp. Macietb,
Dedroying them lor wealth.

Fo'rgkr. »./. [itom firge."]
One who makes or forms.
2. One who counterfeits anything; a fal1

fifier.

As in dealing, if there were no receivers thero
would be no thieves; fo in (lander, if there were
fewer fprcaders there would be ieiiexforgers of libels.
Government of tbe Tongue.
Vo forger of lies willingly and wittingly furnilhes
out the means of his own detedlion.

Il'ijt.

Fo'rcery. »./. [[rom fcrge.] The crime of
falfification.

The aft of forfeiting; the puniftiment
The court is as

Sbakeff. Ctriolanm.

His heart's his mouth
What his bread /irgej, that his tongue mud vent.
Sbakefp.
Thofe names that the fchools forged, and put
into the mouths of fcholars, could never get ad-

from/oI•/(•/^]
I.

:

Fairy £J.

He was a kind of nothing, titlelefs,
'Till he huAfo'g'd himfclf a name i" th' (ire

the right or pof-

difcharged by lofs of fomething poflelTed.
z. The thing forfeited; a mulft; a fine.

J>erfuaded him to ceafe.
High lime 'gan it wex for Una fair.
think of thofe her captive parents dear.

To

loft either as to

feffed

Had lately brought his troops to Priam's aid

Tate's Ju*.

To make by any means.

z.

toy/e.

happinefs.

feflion, by breach of conditions.
All the fouls that are, weteforfeH once
And he that might the 'vantage bcft have took.
Sbakefp. Meaf.fr Meaf.
Found out the remedy.
Beg that thou may'ft have leave to hang thyfelf;
And yet, thy wealth \ie\n% forfeit to the date,
Thou halt not left the value of a cord. Sbjkefpeare.
This now fencelefs world.
Milton.
Forfeit to death.

Young Chorabus, who by love was led

I

Nor yet the fmilh had learn 'd to form a fword.

Fo'rfeit. participial, adj. [from the verb.]
Liable to penal feizure; alienated by a

To win renown and f.iir Calfandra's bed.

yo For E w

Which earth at fird for plough-fiiares did afford.

Men difpleafed God, and confequeatly /c^'iVfi/

And wand'ring vanity, when lead was fafe,

Forpwea'rv.

In leagues offenfive and dqfenfive join'd ;
But lanlcfs man the anvil dares profane,
Ani forge that deel by which a man is llain.

on light conditions, gain

Davies.

crime;

both which

\ie\Vt%for^d of gold.
Mud needs have golden furniture. Chapman's IliaiL
Tygcr with tyger, bear with bear you'll lind

Who doth bemoan his heir, or blame the giver ?

Thy pride.

;

The queen of martials.
And Mars himfcif conduced them;

To Fo'rfeit. "v. a. [from the noun.] To
lofe by fome breach of condition ; to lofe
by fome offence.

Well I wiU.arm me, being thus/orfwara d.
Shakejf. Henry VI.

to deftroy.

Ihape.

Sbakefp.

A f^her cannot alien the power he has over his

FoREWARS. ii.a.[forevaa.'warn.\

^

To Forge, "v. a. {forger, old French.]
I. To form by the hammer; to beat into,

Claudio, whom liere you have warrant to execute,
who
is no greater forfeit to the law than Angelo,
Sbakefp.
hath fentenced him.

child : he may perhaps to fome ie%jeesforfeit it, but
Loeke.
cannot transfer it.

To admonifti beforehand.

1 read you reft,

aft of working.
In the greater bodies (he forge was eafy, the matter being dudlile and fequatious and obedient to the
ftroke of the a.-,ifi.er, and apt to be drawn, formed,
Bacon.
and moulded.

Your brother is t forfeit of the law.

all

1.

previoufly

offence.

lA/ar. i«. ii.

JTo

will forewarn you

by his

forfeited

And you but wade your words.

all light to

the /orruwi-rf were

in

mighty men.

is

Manufadure of metalline bodies; die

3.

If wilfully he forfeit it again.

Shakeff. King Le*r.
Fall'n into taint.
Fo'rk.ward. v. f[foreisA'ward.\ 'Ihe

y"(»

Sbaieff.

A great eftate to him, and his, for ever;

That monftert it; or yout/orivoucb'J affiflion

van; the front.
They that marched

life

If then a man,

Sure her oftence

Mud be of fuch unnatural degree.

To defolate

fliaped.
From no elher forge hath proceeded a ftrarjt
conceit, that to fervc God with any fet form of
Hooker^
common prayer is fuperilitious.

And let another hand, not thine, eiaft
Thy fenaX/orfeit from thyfelf. Milton's Agoniftes.
Thy life, Mclantius I am come to take,
Of which foul treafon does iforftii make. IVatler.
z. A perfon obnoxious to punifhment; one

with
I'hefintfetb fliouIJ be formed broad, and
ibr Creation.
a thia Iharpedge like chizilcs. Rjy on

3.

Th' o'er labour'd Cyclop from his talk retires,
Th" JEaWsxiforge exhaulted of its fires.
Pofe.
2. Any place where any thing is made 01

Thy danders I forgive, and therewithal
Remit thy other fotfriti,
Th' execution leave to high difpofal.

the incifor.

2.

JorfeJ,

.

Sbakff,

In other pait Hood one, who at tht^irj^
Labouring, two mafly clods of iron and brafs.
Milton's Paradife L^,
Had melted.

!

Toretoo'th.

I

;

Welfti.]

SiJyiry.

tune.

How London doth pour out her c.tiens.

Sidney.

FO'RFEIT. «. /. [forfait, Ytaich

yenient fign ; prognollick.

Now behold
In the quick yiir^f and working-houfe of thought,

ufe.
Neither the light was enough to read the words,
and the ink was already /irrtwir*, and in many

Daniel.

Pre-

In common language we w(e forge
for large work , andy/w///;^ for fmall ; bat
in books the diftiniiion is not kept.
form.

procure that ihsjood commonly /"«((i/S«/ ">'?''*'''
Xnollet.
time come to t{k€t.
Forewo'rn. pert, [fore and •worn, from
Worn out; wafted by time or
TWrtr.]

places blotted.

\Vhilft ftrange prodigious fifiti/areiakeri blood.

It

FOR

FOR

FOR

The place where iron

is

Has your King married the Lady Gray ?

And now, to footh yourfrgery and his,
Sends me a paper to perfuade me patience.

Sbakefp,

Nothing could have been eafier than for the )ews,
the enemies of JcfusChrid, to have difprovcd thefe
had they been falfe, to have ihcwn their
fafls,
faUhood, and to have convifted them of/trrry.
Stepbens's Sermons,

K forgery, in fetting a falfe name to a writing,
which may prejudice another's fortune, the law punilhcs wjlh the lofs of cars; but has inflifted no
adequate penalty for doing the fame thing in print,
though books fold under a falfe name are
2.

Smith's

fo

many
Sviifi,

forgeries.

work;

fabrication;

the aft of

the forge.

He an on embattled armic«(Ud in iron,
And vtcaponlcfs himfclf.
I

beaten into

4

J:

FOR

FOR

FOR
M»Je srnn riJiculom, ufcltfs iSt/orgny

Sir Thsmas Lovell, I as (tn forgive yflu,

Ot brazen (hield and fpcar, the hammcr'd cuirafi,

Ai i vto\>\i \it forgiven t

forgotten,

ox forgot.

•vtrgeten,

Dutch. J

To remit; not to exaift debt or penalty.

3.

The lord of that fcrvant was moved with compalTion, loofcd him, ini forgave him the debt.

Mat. xviii. 47.

FoRGi'vENESs. »./. [popjipenntj-j-e, Sax.]
The aft of forgiving.
1
To the Lord our God belong mercies inif.rgive-

Yea,

Can a woman Jorge: her fucking child ?
they miy/orgel j yet I will aot/ergri ihce.

Pardon of an offender.
Thou haft promifed repentance %-ni forgiven!fs to
them that have tinned againft thee. Prayer of Ma:
Exf:hingcforgi-veTiefs with me, noble Hamlet;
Mine and my lather's death come not upon thee.
Sbakeff. Hamlet.
Nor thine on me.

I/a. xlix. 5

If we tnlght/orger ourfelves, or forget God ; if we
might difregard our rcafon, and live By humour and
fancy in any thing, or at any time, or at any place,
it would be as lawful to do the Came in every thing,
Lav).
at every lime, and every place.
Anon.
The mafs of taav.firgQiien things.

Pardon of an offence.
God has certainly promifed forgivenefi of (in to

3.

every one who repents.

I

I, in iiA, a real inierelt h.i«c.

And, with the ufual courtier's trick, intend
To ferve myfdf, firgitful of my friend.

Foice'tfulness,

n.f.[ftomforgeiful.'\
ceflation to remember; lofii

And Iteep my fenl'cs \n forgetj'ulnrfs

Forgo't.

Dryden,

Great Straffi>rd

i

of yi/-^<'/.
remembered.

part. pafl".

Not

Sfenfer't Pafl.

FORK. v.f. [/''i-^, Latin ;/i>rf/>,Wellh;
fourche, French.]

An inftrument divided at the end into
two or more points or prongs, ufcd on

many occafions.
AtMidfummcrdownwith the brambles and brakes,
And after abroad with Xk-jforkt and thy rakes.

Withyjrir and Itaves the felon to purfue.
Ran Coll our do^.
Dryden' 1 Nun't Priejl.
1 dine v,\x\\forki that have but two prongs, Sv.ifi.
2. It is fometimes ufed for the point of

arrow.
The bow is bent and drawn

prcheiifive, quick, forgriive, full of

— Let

abakeffeare.

Force'tter. »./. [from/orfr/.]

One that forgets.
2. A carclcfs perfon.
1.

To FORGIVE, t: a. [porjipn, Saxon.

To pardon a perfon

;

not to punifh.

Then hefJtn/orgi've him too!

Sbakrffiare.
1 do befecch your grace for charity
Tf ever any malice in your heart

Wcic hid ajaioli me, oof/orgivt me frtokly.

The bealts their caves, the birds their neHsforlore.

FORLORN, adj. [pojilopen, from popleoJ.

pan, Saxon; njerloren, Dutch.]
Deferred; deftitute ; forfaken; wretched; helplefs; folitary.

Make them feek for that they wont to fcorn ;
Of fortune and of hope at ana forlorn. HubberJ,
Tell me, good Hobinol, what gars thee greet?

What ? hath fome wolf thy tender lambs yiorn ?
Or is thy bagpipe broke, that founds fo fwcot ?
Or art thou of thy loved X^Uforhm f
Spenfer,
Inev^ry place was heard the lamentation of wo-

men and children ; every thing Ihcwcd the hcavinefa
of the time, andfeemed as altogether iuH^niforlorn.
Knolles'i Hijlury,
How can I live without thee how torego
Thy fweet converfe, and love fo dearly join'd.
!

TnJIer.

The vicar (iriJ, and after him the crew,

A

nimble Oiapes,
which, delivered ta the voice, becomes etdlent wit.

Fairy ^een.
Thus fell the trees, with noife the defcrts roar;
Fairfax.

Prior.

harrafs ; tear; torment.

to'RCETiVE. adj. \iiomforge.'\ That may
forge or produce.
word, 1 believe, peculiar to Shakefpcare.
Good (herrie fackafccnds me info the brain, dries
ve therv all the foolilli, dull vapours, makes it ap-

That wretched world he 'gan for to abhor,

And mortal life 'gan loath, as thingyir/orr.

Dinbam.

Hooker.

fa- geiful«ffi of her duty.

Obfolete.

Such as Diana by the fandy (hore
Of fwift Eurotas, or on Cynthus' green,
Where all the nymphs have )\txf»rlore. Fairy Q^,

Deut. xxii. 21.
worthy of that name, though all

To Forha'il. v. a. [An old word. Probably iotfirhaul, from for and haul.'\ To

1.

Pofe't Me/Jiah.

Defertcd; forfook ; forfakcn.

This fong (hall not hi forgotten.

A iwcct/'^rgfffu/rre/i oi humin are. FcffeU ^tatius.

I.

"I

Forco'tten. J

All birds and bealU be hulh'd ; tleep deals <way

2. Negligence; negleft;- inattention.
The church of England is grievoully charged with

an arrow.
It fcizing, no way enter migTvt
But back refouiiding, left iheforkbead keen,
EflToons it tied away^and might no where be Teen.
Fairy Sluee*.
Fu'KKY.ad/. [from/uri.] Forked; furcated;

play.

Remiffion of a fine, penalty, or debt.
FoROi'vER. »./. [im?aforgive.'\ One who
pardons.

SLakr/f).

The wild delires of men and toils of day;
And brings, defcending, through the lilent air,

more.

Fo'rkhead. «._/! [firk&nihead.'\ Pointof

Forlo're. [The preterite and participle of
the Saxon popleopen, in Dutch <verloreit.'[

Nought cafeth the care that doth me forhait,

Nature's fofi nurfe, how have I frighted thee.
That thou no mere will weigh my eyelids down.

form.

Fo'rkedness. «._/". [irom forked."] The
quality of opening into two parts or

And with theiryir^ tongue and pointlefs fting (hall

All this long tale.

O gentle fleep

Fo'rkedly. adtj. [frora/onf ('</.] In a forked

Spratt.

Lightly receiv'd, were ea(ilyy&r^or.

Prior.

Peoples the duk retreats of death.
Change your fierce hiding into joyful fong.
And praile your Maker with your_/i)iS<</ tongue.
Rofcommjn..

Pleas'd the green luftre of the fcaks I'urvey,

Of thee could beforgoiien, but thy fall.
The foft ideas of the chearful note,

Which to my own advantage I would ^iyt \

He would have fpoke
But hifs for hifs retum'd, withyirifd' tongue
To forked tongue.
A'lll'on's Paradife Lo/t^
Ye dragons, whofe contagious breath

5.

lefs.

Shake/p. tlcitry VIII.
In our long abfe-.n-c.
Have you not love to bear with me.
When that raih humour, which my mother gave me.
Sbr.,.eff. "Juliui Cxjar.
Makes aic for geifut f

Should in their own contines, W-i\hforked heads,
Have their round haunches goar'd.
Sbake/p.

than all the learning of the heathens could invent.

Dryd. Mn.

Be not/ir|;^r/;// to entertain ftrangers. Urb. xiii. t.
The Queen is comtotdel's, and vtcfoigeifHl

And yet it irks me the poor dappled fools

opening into two parts.
The fmiling infant in his hand (hall take
The crrrted bafilifk and fpeckltd fnake

intr<>duccd

Mercy above did hourly plead
For her refcmblance htrt below
And mild forgiveneft intercede
To ftop the coming blow.

3, Inattentive; negligent; ncgleftful; care-

Sbakrfp.

Come, (hall we go and kill us venifon ?

more heroick principles of
rocckncf?, forgiveneft, bounty, and magnanimity,
Here are

But whei a thoufand rolling years are paft,
Sj long their puniQiments and penance lall.
Whole droves of minds arc by the driving go4
Compell'd to diink the deep Lethean flood,
In largeyir^fr/i/ draughts to deep the cares
Of their patt labours, and theii irkfome ycirs.

Soutb.

Tenderncfs; willingnefs to pardon.

4.

Caufing oblivion ; oblivious.

Sbakefpeare.

Sometimes we feej cloud that's dragonifh,

Forgiveneft to the injur'd does belong;

But they ne'er pardon who commit Uie wrong.
Dryden.

FoRCe'tful. aaj. [lrom/«r^«.]
1, Not retaining the memory of.

Oblivion;
of memory.

Daniel.

neffes.

2.

2. Not toatteiid; to negleft.

a knife.

A forked mountain, or blue promontory.

Could alter high decrees, 1 to that place
Would fpecd before thee, and be louder heard,
That on my head all might be vilited.
Thy frailty and infirmer in forgiven.
Milton.
To me committed, and by me cxpos'd.

Sbair/jnare,
1 never in mj life did look on him.
When I im/argoi:en, as 1 (hall he.
And fleep in dull cold marble, »here no mention
Shake/fiarc.
Of me mull mors be heard.
Ftrgt not thy friend in thy mind, and be not
EccUf. xixYii. 6.
nmindfui of him in thy riches.
No fooner was our deliverance compleated, but
Allerbury.
duly.
our
danger
and
yit-firgot our
Pfft.
.•Mive, ridiculous J and dead, /oc^or.

'

the world, like a forked
radiOi, with a head fantallically carved upon it with

24.

If prayers

That is Dot/crgol
Which ne'er I did icmember; to my knowledge,

1.

Naked he was, for all

If. xxxiii.

their iniquity.

1. To lofe memory of; to let go from the
remembrance.

2,

two or more parts.

Prior.

The people that dwell therein (hall be forgiven

[pop3}'-caD, Saxon;

Opening int"

aJj. \ftora fork.'\

Shalefp.

To pardon a crime.

2,

FORGET. V. a. preter. forgot ; part.

'To

Fo'rked.

I forgive a\\,
Slowly provok'd, (he taSXyfergivtf,

Chalybean lemper'd llcel, and frock of mail
Mi/lon'i Ag^niftu.
Adamanlean proof.

it fall

make from the (haft.
Hbakefp. King Lear.

A point.
Several are amazed at the wifdom of the ancients,
that reprefented a thunderbolt with three firk!,
nothing could have better explained its triple

fince

quality of piercing, burning, and melting.

To Fork, v, n. [from the noun.]

Addifcn.

To flioot

blades, as corn does out of the
ground.
Moiiimer't lltifh.
The corn beglnB«th lofork,

into

!

Milton,

Their way
Lies through the perplex'd paths of this drear wood;

The nodding horrourof whofe Ihady brows.
Threat thcyi-r/or/r and wand'ring pafienger. Milton,
My only llrcngth and rtay forlorn of thee,
Whither (hall 1 betake me, where fubfill
Milton.
Like a decliriiug ilatei'man, \ehf,rtorn
pity
his
friends
and
purfucrs fcorii.
To
Denbam.
The good old mni, forlorn of human aid,
Tor vengeance to his heavenly patron piay'd.
Dtyden,
Philomel laments ^r/orw.
Fenton.
As fome fad turtle his loll love deplores.
Thus, far from Delia, to the winds I mourn ;
Alike unheard, unpity'd, zaA forlorn.
Pope,
!

:

rather, though the fork invade

The region of my heart.
3.

an

To live again iu ihefe wild woods forloi n

!

2.

Taken away.
is

1 his feiife

rtiews that it

the participle of an aftivc verb,

now

loft,

Wliu

Wlwn as night hith us of liglit/»i-/i»»,

fchooli, wliere Ihey

Spinftr,
I wilh that day would fliorily reafcend.
What it become of great Aerates' fon !
Or where hath he hung up his mortal blade,

That hath fo many haughty concjuefts won ?
Is all his loKt filoin, and all his Glory done (
Fairy S^urtn.

fenfe.
3. Small ; defpicablc ; in a ludicroos
He was fo fcrloiit, that his dimenfions to any
Shaktff, lltnry IV.

thick fight were invincible.

FoRLo'rn. n./.

A loft, folitary, forfaken man,

1.

Henry
7s of a king become abanilh'd man,
And forc'd to live in ScolUnJ i forlorn,

Shakeff.

The foldiers who are

Forlorn Hope.

2.

were not

fuffertd to ft»y thtie

Stxi/l,

irbnths.

$>a.t

To

2.

Whatever can to fight or thought \xfortifj,

Though well we may not pafs upon his lifcj

MiUoit,
Holy, divine, good, amiable, or fwcct.
Let Eve, for 1 have drench'd her eyes,
Here deep below, while ihou to forefight wak'ft;
As once thou fleep'ft, while (he to life yitiform'd.
Millcn,

Without \\\eform of juftice ) yet our pow'r
Shall do a court'fy to our wrath, which men

May blame, but not controul.

Shaktff. King Liar.

A long table, and a IquaiT table, or a feat about
the walls, feem things oPform, but at« things of
fubftance ; for at a long table, a few at the upper
end, in elFefl, fway all the bufinefs ; but in the
other form, there is nwre ufe of the counfellor^ opiBacon's EJfays.
nions that fit lower.
That the parliaments of Ireland might want no
decent or honourableyo>-»i ufed in England, he caufed
a particular aft to pafs, thit the loids of Ireland
Djvies.
fhould appear in parliament robes.

to fchemc; to plan.

;

Lucretius taught him not toformh\% hcroe, to
Drydtn,
give him piety or valour for his manners.

To arrange

4.

;

to

combine in any parti-

cular manner : as, hv. formed his troops.

To adjuft

5.

;

to fettle.

Our differences with the Romanifls are lAns^formtd
into an intereft, and

become the defign not of fingle

peifjns, but of corporations and fucceffions.

Clarind,

their forms,

To modify

3.

Their general ufed, in all difpatches made by himfelf, to obferve all decency in

fofttd the phantom •f well-bodied air. Phft
model to a particular (hape or ftatc.
Creature in whom excell'd

Ceremony ; cjctemal rites.

7.

and are therefore

fent firft to the attack,
doomed to pcrith.

FOR

FOR

FOR

Decay of Piety,

How am I to interpret, fir, this vifit ?

Criticks in plume.

Is it a compliment of /irw, or love >

Who lolling on our forcmoU benches fit,

A

Dryd.

A«d ftiU charge firft, the true/ci/ora of wit.

Forlo'rnness. »,/. [trom/{>7o;».3Deftitution; mifery ; folitude.
Men difpleafcd God, and confequently forfeited all

Stated method ; eftablifhed praftice ;

8.

To contrive

6.

fbil. mjl. Moth.

;

to coin.

The defeat of the defign is the routing of opiniont

ri-

Decay of Piety,

formed for promoting it.

He dies too foon

tual and prefcribcd mode.

He who affiriSeth fpecch to be neceflary amongft

1

And fate, if paCible, muft be delay'd :

lia'jktr.

my forming brain.
Yet crude and immature, demands more time.
Rnvt.
7. To model by education or inftitution.
Let him to this wilh eafy pains be brought.
And I'ccm to labour when he labours not

Knit with a golden baldric, which /oi/tf)'
Athwart her fnowy brealt, and did divide
Her dainty paps, which, like young fruit in May,

are conftant forms of prayer more likely to
flat and hinder the fpirit of prayer and devotion, than

Thus/or»i'</forfpeed, he challenges the wind.
DryJ.
And leaves the Scythian arrow far behind.

unpremeditated and confufed variety

10 diftraift

NowJitile 'gan tofwell ; and being ty'd
Through her thin weed, their places only fignify'd.

lofe it.

King Charles.

right to happinefs; even wliilft they compleated the
Mornncji of their condition by the lethargy of not
-fiV'bcingfenfibleofit.
yVi Forly'e, 1: ». [from/or? and />r.]

To

all

men, throughout the world, dolh not thercb/ im-

port that

ail

men muft neceffarily fpcak one kind of

language ; even fo the nerellily of polity and regimen
in all churches may be he!d, without holding any
to be neceltiry in them all.

one certain form

Jye before.

t'a. Slu.

FORM. »./. \fornta, Latin

;

ftrme, Fr.]

The external appearance of any thing;

I.

repiefentation ; (hape.
Nay, women are frail loo,
where they view thcmfelves.

•A-/, as the glallis

Which are as eafy broke as they make/or«i. Sbak.
Itftood lUU( but

I. could

not dilcern the yiim

thettof.

^

.

>^-

,

Gold will endure a vehement fire, without any
thange, and after it has been divided by corrofive
liquors into invifible parts ; yet may prefently be precipiuted.fo as to appear again in its /o/«.

Grtw'i Cofmol, Sac,

Knifarm, fay i as well as they,
Siuift.
Muft fail, if matter brings no grift. ^
particular
(hape.
by
a
modified
as
Being,
i.
WJjen noble benefits (hall prove
Not well difpos'd, the mind grown once corrupt.
They turn to vicious/sr/wJ, ten times more ugly

Shakefpejre' 1 If. VUI.
Here toils and death, and death's half-brother,

Than ever they wrre fair.
fleep.

Forms terrible to view, their fentry keep |

With anxious pleafures of aguilly mind.
Drjd.
Deep frauds before, and open force behind.
3. Particular model or modification.
He that will look into many paits of ^(ia and
will find men reafon ihere peihaps as
acutely as himfelf, who yet never heard of a fyllogifm, nor can reduce any one argument to thofe
Lcckt.
Jiirm,
,
It lengthens out every a« oiworlhip, and proimprefiions
in the
permanent
and
lafting
duces more

America

tliufc

which accompany any tranfient

form of words that are uttered in the ordinary method of religious worihip.

Addifon.

4. Beauty ; elegance of appearance.
Jfa. liii. 2.
He hath no form nor comelioefs.
5. Regularity ; method ; order.
What he fpoke, though it lack'd/orm a lirile.

Was not like madncfs.

:

Nor

and

FO'KM AL. atij. [f'ormel, French

Their procefs, or the forms of law below.

Drydeti.

Shakeffiarc'i HamUl.

6. External appearance without the
tial qualities ; empty (how.
Then thofe whom/ii-m of laws

eflen-

Condemn'd to die, when .traitors judg'd their caufe.
Dry den.
They were young hciis feat roly iirform from

exaft

to aSefiition.

The juftice,

If a chair be defined a feat for a fingle perfon,
with a back belonging to it, then a ftool is a feat
for a fingle perfon without a back ; and iform is a
If'atts.
feat for feveral pcrfotis, without a back.
I wasfeen with her in the manorhoufe, fitting
with her upon titt form, and taken following her
Shakeff,
into the park.

In fair round belly, with good capon lin'd.
With eyesfevere, and beard of_/i)' wj/' cut.
Full of wife fjws and modern inilances
And fo he plays his part.
Shakeff. As you like It.
I^'otmal in apparel,

In gait and countenance furely like a father.
Shakejpeji:^'

A clafs

a rank of ftudents.
;
win be necelfary to fee and examine thofe
works which have given fo great a reputation to the
Drydin,
mafters of the firft /t-im.
The feat or bed of a hare.
1 1.
Now for a clod like hare \aform thy peer
Now bolt and cudgel fquirrds leap do move |
10.

formalis,

Ceremonious; folemn ; precifc ;

I.

A long feat.

9.

;

Latin.]

Nor feck to know

It

Ceremonies be not to be omitted to (hangers and
form.tl natures ; but the exalting them above the
mean is not only tedious, but doth diminith the
Bacon.
credit of him that fpeaks.

Done according to eftablilhed rules and

2."

!

Matter, as wife logicians fay,
CaniKit without nform fubl'ilt

mind, than

'i"he thought that labours in

not
; not irregular ; not fudden ;
extemporaneous.

methods

Nowthe ambitious lark, with miirourdear.
They catch, while he, fool to himfelf makes love.

There is not any pofitive law of men, wheihir
be general or particular, received byyii'wa/ exprefs
confcnt, as in councils; or by fecret approbation, as

!

Sidney.

it

Have you obferv'd a fitting hare,
Lift'ning, and fearful of the ftorm
Of horns and hounds, clap back her ear.
Pricr.
Afraid to keep or leave htxform.
12. Form is the cfTential, fpecifical, or dif-

in cuftoms it cometh to pafs, but may be taken away,

At there aie/orora/and written leagues, refpeflive
to certain enemies ; fo there is a natural and tacit
confederation amongft all men againft the common
enemies of human fociety, fo as tliere needs no intimation or denunciation of the war ; but all thefc

tinguilhing modification of the matter of
which any thing is compofed, fo as thereby to give it fuch a peculiar manner of
In definitions, whether they be fr.imfd larger to
augment, or llrider to abridge the number of facramenls, we find grace exprefly mentioned as their
true eflentiaiyoi-OT, and elements as the matter whcrcHooker.
unto ihnform did adjoin itfelf.

formal

.\

13.
e(rcnce.

foimalities the l.iw of nature fupphes, as in the cafe

Harris.

exiftence.

caufe;

that

which gives

inferred, if the world were a living creahad a foul and fpirit, by which they did not
intend God, for they did admit of a deity befides,
but only the foul or effentiaiy^rw of the univcrfe.
Bacon's Natural H{ftc
Itory.

Bacon,

ofpiraies.

3.

Regular ; methodical.
Theyt/wrt/ftars do travel io.

As we tlieir names and courfes know ;

And he that on their changes looks.
Would think them govern'J by our books. Waller,
having the appearance but not

4. External ;

the cfTence.
0(formal duty, make no more thy boaft

They

ture,

Hooker,

ifoccafionfcrvc.

Thou difobey'ft where it concerns me moft.

it

5.

Still ihconftraint yourfuficring fcx remains,

Or bound in formal or in real chains.

To Form. -v. a. [formo, Latin.]
I. To make out of materials.

6.

Coi formed man of the dull of the ground.

Dryd.

Depending upon eftablifliment orcuftoin.
Pofe,

Having the power of making any thing
what it is ; conftituent eifential.
;

Gen, ii. 7.

Of letters the material part is breath and voice :

Into fit molds prepar'd ; from which he form'd
Firft his own tools then, « hat might elfe be wrought
Milton,
Fufil, or^rjv'n in metal.
Delermin'd to advance into our room

the formal is conftituted by the motions and figure
of the organs of fpeech affeifting breath with a peculiar found, by which each letter is difcriminatcd.
Holder's Elements ofSfeecb,
Bellarmine agrees in making the formal aft of
ad«»Uon t9 be fubieftioa to a fuperior : but withal

The liquid ore he drain'd
:

A cre4tute/«t«i'(/ ot earth.

MUttrn.

he

FOR

pany did not deferve our
challenge of homage.

:

7. Retaining its proper and effential charadterifticK ; regular ; proper.

Thou IhouMli come like a fury cover'd with fnakes.
Not like formal man.
'Till

I

3.

Hooker.
4. Eflentially ; charaftcriftically.
This power and dominion is not ajjiuately and
formally the image of God, but only a part of it.

It is a ridiculoui thing, and

fit

eftabliflied

mode of beha-

viour.

The attire, which the minifter of God is by order
to ufe at times of divine fervice, is but a matter of
mere formality, yetfuch as for comelinefe fake hath
hitherto been judged not unneceflary.
Hooter.
Formalities of extraordinary leal and piety are
never more ftudied and elaborate than in defpcrate
d'Cp".

KingCharl,,.

Many a worthy man facrifices his peace to for.
tialit
ulitUt of compliment and good

manners.

h'EJir.

N&r was his attendance on divine offices a mat-

teor^.

fmill point, as appears by

to the mind at once,

2.

plallick.
As we have eftablilhed our aflertion of the feminal
produflicn of all kinds of animals ; fo likewife we
affirm, that the meaneft plant cannot be
raifed
without feed, by any formative power refiding
in
f"''';«
Bentley's Sermont.
to'RMER. », /. [from form.]
that

He

forms ; maker ; contriver ; planner.
The wonderful art and providence of the

''* .°" ^*^ ''' formality of faculties,
or af,
fedlions, IS the impofture of our fancies,

J"

and contraGlan-ville'i Scefftu

diaory to his divinity.

4. Effcnce ; the quality by which any thing

what it is.
May not a man vow to A.

?

Here the vow

l< made both to God and to A.
and B. But here \.
ar^ B. are only witneffes to the vow but
;
thc/Jrl
mality of tbc vow lic< in thepromife

former only

we

;

in ufe.
The fame fpirit which anointed the blerted
foul
ofour Saviour Chr.it, doth (c formalize,
unite, and
aduate h.s whoie race, as if both he
and thev
to many limbs c impaacd into
one body.

2.

To affca formality
mony.

;

were

Ho'.ier

to be fond of cere-

—A ihird

2.

According to eftablilbed rules,
ceremonies or rites.

methods,

Shah/f.ar.',R;el,ardn.
z. Ceremonionlly ; fliffly;
precifely

mula, Latin.]

like the former.

Itisanew way to_/ora/i:<7/eata diftance. BroiOn.

1.

Blefs me !

Sbake/p.
adulteries ; for, if there were univerfal liberty, the
increafe of mankind would be but like that of foxes
a'''<:t-

J.

the harlot, becaufe of thy renown, and pouredft out
thyfarnicationt on every one that pafled by.

ExA. xvi. i{.

Fornica'tor. n.f.

A

fornicator or adulterer ftcals the Ibul, as well at
diflionours the body of his neighbour.
Taylor.

Fornica'tress

To FORSA'KE. ^.

A

f,

tU .^

FO'KMIDABLE. ajj. [formidabiUs S^^\
formtJable.lrtnch.] Terrible; dreadful;

tremendous ;

terrifick ; to be feared.
I fwell
my preface into a volume, and make
formitMe, when you fee fo many pages behind.

A

cohabits

a. prcter.fofooi; part.

piff' forfooi, or forfaie/i.

[wr/aaien, Dut.]

To leave in refentment, negled, or dif'

;

'Twas now the time when firft Saul Coi for/bok,
God Sayl ; the room in's heart wild paflions took.
Co'ivlfy.

Oreftes comes in time

To fave your honour

:
Pyrrhus cools apace ;
Prevent his faKhood, mifor/ake him tirft :
1 know vou hate him. A, Philips
tDifireft Mother.

Daughter of Jove, whofe arms in thunder wield

TIr avenging bolt, and Ihake the dreadful ftiield.
Forsook by thee, in vain I fought ihy aid.

2.

Pope.

To leave; to go away from; to depart
from.

The places

AdJifon

marriage

See you thc/or»,V.7/n/rbe remov'd
j
Let her have needful but not flaviOi means. Siaiefp.

Harte

were all of them/.merA. the
cool retirements cf the Romans, where
they ufed to hide
Ihemfelves among the woods and
mountains, during
the exceffive heats of their Summer.

f. [fromforniiator.]

with a man.

fora'.er lima.

pair.

n,

woman who without

like.

Fo RMERLY. ati-v. [ffom/or^fr. 1 In times'

[formcateur, French ;

from fornix, Lat.] One that has commerce with unmarried women.

Pope

The prefent point of time is all thou hart.
The future doubtful, and the/c,-OT^, paft

Graunt.

In Scripture, foraetimes idolatry.
Thou did'ft truft in thine own beauty, thou played 'ft

2.

A

temper.

what a fry ai fornication is at the door.

The law ought to be ftrift againft/ora/Vjifioojanii

Mentioned before another.

ill

Concubinage or commerce with an unmarried woman.

Shakefp. Macbeth

Paft : as tiis nu/irthe ci'fom iff

[fornication, French;

fornicatio, Latin,]

bad author dcferves better ufage than
a bad critick : a man may be theformer merely
through the
misfortune of an ill judgment; but
he caiinot be the

latter without both lh« and an

A fet or prefcribed model.

Fornica'tion. n.f.

I.

animal'
laln,/i>r».er/^ benign, approach
towards an alkaline
nature.

Formally according to our law,

D=^rehim._

is

prefcribed;

To FO'RNICATE. -v. a. [fromforHtx, Latin.] To commit lewdnefs.

•

Thy air.

Ritual;

FO'RMULE. «. /. [firmuU, French ; for-

Thou other gold bound brow, is like the firft

As an animal degenerates by difeafes, the

Fo'rmally, at/v. [from fortxa/.]
I.

re

time rather than place, and
mean
that which he faw bfore, rather
than that
which had precedence in place.]
1. Before another in time.

adj.

ftated.

fpeft

^tilliftfr^eet,

RMALI7.E. f. (7. [formali/er, French'
from fjrmal.]
1. To model
to modify. A word not now

Formulary,

to time ; for when we fay the Jaft
rank of
the proceflion is like the former,

made to God.

I

firft;

Foremofl is generally applied to
place, rank, or degree, and

and B. that he will

give a hundred pounds to an hofpital

A

and prefcribed models or fet forms.

before.

iwft.

3. txtemal appi^rance.

Shakefp.
n. f. [fornuuiire, French
;
from/<?r»:a/e'.]
book containing ftated

whence former, and frmo/l, now commonly written /5flr«o/?. as ifderivcd from

in their

j

Fo-RMULARY.

in

1'0'RMiR. [atij. [fromponma. Saxon,

e'en to remoter (hores,

The Britifti aatioaformidaily roars.
Dryden.
adj. [fiom form.] Shapelefs
;
without regularity of form.

<an-

in the multhe formation
Ray on the Creation

mufthave

oflevcral parU for feveral ufes .

1

Ifatts.

The manner in which a thing is formed.

The chorion, a thick membrane obfcuring the
formation, the dam doth tear afunder.
Broun.
Fo'rmative. ai/J. [from for/tio, Latin.]
Having the power of giving form;

JormJiliei, as the Gauls did the Roman fenators.

^»

without your obferving the ori-

ginal iniformation of them.

ttiver ^t\A former of our bodies, appears

northern parts, and found them all fat down

.^ 17
ho

Arbuthnot.

Complicated ideas, growing up under obfervation,
give not the fame confufion, as if they were all ofl'ered

And though the figning and the feal proclaim
The barefac'd perjury, and fix the (hame. Dryden.
The pretender would have infallibly landed in our

is

the gradual/oniB<;r/o« of

»f«tus.

!

Fo'rmless.

IHod-ward.

titude bfintcniions he

Though fign'd with ii\ form.ility o! law ;

Behold

A conquering navy proudly fpread

All form is formlefs, order orderlefs.
Save what is oppoCte to England's love.

The folids are originally formed of a fluid, from a

Afterbury.

draw,

a terrible manner.

French;

[formation,

habit, or

If men forfwear the deeds and bonds they

..

Small idge.

The matter difcharged forth ofvulcano's, and
other fpiracles, contributes to the formation of me-

drefs.

c

Chrjftian grace, is the fpring from

The aft of forming or generating.

1

ter of formality and cuftom, but of confcience.

Solemn order, method, mode,

Decay of Piety.
„ Pf'""ifos.MXDk^i.Y.ad'v. [fxoTa formitiabUA In

fromybr»?a; Lat.J

South.

/'orm.'\

makes this a
which it flows.

Forma'tion. n.f.

for a fatyr to per-

Formality, n.f. [/er/aa/rV/, French ; from

They rather chufe to be ftewed ihtformidaileneft
of their danger, than by a blind embracing
it, to

The Heathens and the Chriftians may agree in
material aiSs of charity; but that vVxh formally

fons of judgment, to fee what Ihifts frnialijli have,
and what profpedtives to make fuperdcies to fcem a
body that hath depth and bulk.
Bacon.
Agrive, ftaunch, (kilfuUy managed face, fet upon
a grafping afpiiing mind, having gat many a fly
fornulij ihe repuution of a primitive and fevere

P'"yw

fORMIDABLENESS, ». /. [ftomfoimidtli/^i]
1. The quality of exciting
terror or dread,
2. The thing caufmg dread.

South.

him ftir,

Fo'rmalist. tt. /. \formaliJie, French;
from form.l One who praftifes external
ceremony ; one who prefers appearance to
reality ; one who feems what he is not.

2.

In open appearance ; in a vilible and ap'^
parent ftate.
You and your followers do (land formally divided
againft the authorifed guides of the church, and the

haveus'd th' approved means I have;

Ceremony ;

Collier on Pride.

They feem'd to fear thtformiJaUefghl,
And roll 'd their billows on. to fpeed his flight. DrtJ.

j

reft of the people.

With wholefomc fyrups, drugs, and holy prayers.
To make of him iformal ima again.
Shakffp.

1.

a downright

familiarity, is

Sbakejf. Ant. and Clop.

iL

1 will not let

FOR

F O R

he makes the mere apprelienfion of excellency to include the /brma/ rcnioii oi it
whereas mere excellency, without fuperiority, doth not require any
fubjeftion, but only e&ia •.tion.
Stilji'ngjlcei.
The veiy life and vital motion, and the Jormal
eflfence and nature of man, is wholly owing to the
power of God.
Bcniky.

Unwilling \forfook your friendly (late.

Commanded by the gods, and foic'd by fate. Ihyi.
3.

Todefert;

to fail.
Tniili, modelly, and Ihamc the

vioiMforfook ;
Fraud, avarice, .ind force iheir places took.
Diyd.

When cv'n the flying fails were feen no more,

tofuken ot all fight Ihe left the ihoie.

Dryden.

Their purple majefty.

And all tlrofe outward (hows which we call grealnefj,
L.iiiguifti

and dnwp, fecni empty it\iforfaken.

it

And draw thcwond'riiig gazcrscyes nomore. Rove.

Drydat't 4in. Dedication.

Fcrsa'ker. w./ [from/»/ya^<r.] Deferter
j
one that forfakes.

SK

Now to ihe'ii/ori they are aVoul to fend

enemies, moft huciuXfotJltirrt of Gnd. Apocrypha,

He that views nfort to take it.
Plants his artillery 'gai.ill the wcakeft part. Denbam,
fiiry does, like jealousyor/j purlue
With death cv'n Itrangcrs who but come to view.
Dry den.

In truth; certainly ; very well. It is
ufed almoin always in ai\ ironical or con-

My

temptuous fenfe.
Wherefore doth Lyfinder

Fo'rted.

D.-iiy your love, fo rich wiUiiii his foul.

And tender me, ft^rfcctb, affc£\ion

A

fit

xsAVi f^rjooib

to govern

who had

Hay-ward,
fo goodly government in his own ertate.
Unlearned perfons ufe fuch letters as julUy cxprcfs the power or found of their fpccch ; yet y^rfKli, we fay, write not true EngUlh, or tnie French.
Haider on Speech.
In the Eaft Indies a widow, who has any regard
to her character, throws herfelf into the flames of

A

FORTH, adv,.

From that iiyf^rth 1 lov'd that face divine ;
From that ii.^ forth 1 call in careful mind

Addifon's Freeboldet,

^hilgfte.

Abroad; out of doors.

5.

word

Sbakefp. Othello,
Uncle, I muft come, forth.
have no mindof fealUng/oirA to-nighi. Sbakefp,
Attend you here the door of our Hera daughter i
Sbakeffeare,
Will ftie notfarlh f
When Winter pall, and Summer fcarce begun.
Dryden,
Invites them_/irtO to labour in the fun.
I

It is

Out away ; beyond the boundary of any

4.

place.

They will privily relieve

their friends that are

forth; they will fend the enemy fecret adveitifcmcnis; and they will not alio Itiik to draw the
Spenftr.
enemy privily upon them.
Ev'n that funftiinc brcw'd afliow'r for him,

That wafti'd his father's fortui»cs_/iir/i of France.
Sbakefp.

Outinto a public cliarafter;publick view.

5.

firmly vow

You mdyfctforth the fame with farmhoufcs.

Never to woo: her more ; but iajhr/ivear her.

Pea c ham.
But when your troubled coiintrycall'd you rib,
Your (laming courage, and your matchlefs worth,

f

As one unworthy all the former favours
Shakeff,

l"o fierce contention gave a profp'rous end,

And that felf chain about bis neck,

Thoroughly; from beginning

6.

Which X'itjhrf'wore moft monftroully to have. Sbak.
Dbferve the wretch who hath his faith forfook,

Out of ufe.

How

Whom

Like innocence, and as fcrcncly bold

As truth, how louJly htfotfueais thy gold
Dryd. yUv.
as, tofor3. With the reciprocal pronoun
Jictar him/elf to be perjured ; to fwear

lia//er,

to

it

To

7.

concerns to hear this matter/or/£.
Sbakefp,

Obfolete.
how far forth we may expedl

a certain degree.

Hence we

learn,

, falfcly.
To leave my Julia, (hall 1 hefcrftvorn '
To leave fair Sylvia, (hall 1 yajujiuurn ?

On to the end.
1

Danitl.
ev'n at the altar fwom,

'£temal love and endlefs faith lo Thefeus ;
And yet I'm U\h, fir/worn: the hallow'd (hrine,
That heard me fwear, is witncfs to my falthood
Umitb,

To fwear falfely

and falvation

fi,trerings

of

Out of ufe.

Ave-Maria the inquifitor bad me
1 faid I was taught no more.

repealed the

Ciy forth ;

:

Forihiviti he runs, with feigned faithful hailc.
who, after troublous fights
i

Spenfer.

Few things arc fo reftrained to any one end or
purpofe, that the fame

being eitinS, triey (hould

Hoiier.

Neither did the martial men d.nlly or profecute
the fcrvice faintly, but did fortbivitb quench that
Daviea on Ireland.
fire.
Forthwith began thefe fury-moving founds.
The notes of wrath, the mufick brought from hell.
Daniel's Civil IVai,
The ratiling drums.

The winged heralds, by command
Of fov'reign pow'r throughout the hoftptzKlaim

A (bicmn council forthwith to be held
Milivi's Paradife Ijjl,
In his polfage thither one put into his haiid a
note of the whole confpiracy, defiling him to read
itfortbivitb, and to remember the giver of it as long
South.
as he lived.

At Panda:raonium.

Fo'rtieth. adj. [from fartj,} The fourth
tenth ; next after the thirty-ninth.

What dolhit .ivail
To be Ae fortieth man in an entail ?
is not

And here's a prophet, that I brought with me
Sbakefp,

Vramforlh the ftrcetsol Pomfret.

Some forth their cabbins peep.

roay be fortiil-J.
I

F I c a't I o N . »./. [fortifScation, French;

{xom f rtify.\

The fcicncc of military architeflure.

1.

Fortifcation ]i an art (liewiug

how to fortify

Ready to appear ;

of a numerous
that the enemy, in attacking
It is either
them, muft of necefilty fufi^er great lofs.
fiderable time,

againlt the a{rautts

army without ;
regular

fo

or irregular;

and,

with rcfpc^

To hurl upon their heads that break his law.
that fame vengeance doth hurl on thee,

who is perjured.

Harris.

Broome.
underwood the art otfortifcaiion.
place built tor itrength.
The liounds were uncoupled, and the flag thought

A

2.

it

better to iruft to the nimblenefs of his leer,

Donne.

fports profitable; images, battles, ini fortijieationt
being then delivered to their^memory, which, after
ftiouger judgements, might difpeide fame advantage.

Sidney.,

houfe ; a caftle.
They erefted ifort, which ihey called \\\tfiri di
for ; and bum theitcc they bolted like bcalls of ihe
Baciit.

3. Adilition

adj.

[forth and

iffite.]

Not much ufed.

To llrengchen the intcfted parts, give fome few
Fo't I F I E R

.

?/./. C from /i rtify. J

One who erects works for defence.

1.

The fortlfiir of I'cndennis made his advantage of

covert.
Forthiffuhg thus, (he gave bim firft to wield
A weighty axe, with irueft temper fteel'd.
Pope's Odyffey.
And double edg'd.

FoRTHHi'sHT. adv,

of ftrength.

advices by way oifortification zni 3nt:dote.
Government of tix Tongue;

Stiakcfp, Henry VI

Coming out ; coming forward from a

FORT. ». /. ;firi, FrcQch.J A fortified

than

[forth znd coming.]
not abfconding ; not

Carry this mad knave to jail : 1 charge you fee
that he htfortbcoming. Sbak. Taming of a Sbre^u.
We'll lee yourtrinkeu hcnforibcoming all.

Forthi'ssuinc.

time,

Sidney.
to the llenderyir//;fM;;M of his lodging.
Excellent devices were ufed to make even their

For falfeybr/tff a; iffg, and for muider too. Sbaie/p.

Forswe'arer. n. /. [liom for/iuear,'\ One

to

may be diftingufiied into durable and temporary.

loft.

Take heed ^ for he holds vengeance in his hand.

a

a place with ramparts, parapets,, moats, and omer
bulwarks ; to the end that a fmall number of men
within may be able to defend tbemfel»es,for a con-

And trembling a(k what news, and do hear fo
As jealous hufbands, w^iat ihey would not know.
adj.

What

Fo'rti FiABLE. adj. [ftom fi/ftif^.']

The Phosnicians, though an unwarlike nation, yet

Out of.

Forthco'minc.

Donre.

above a fortieth part
in value to the icft of Britain; and, with lefpeft
to the profit that England gains from thence, not
Siviff.
the f;rty ihoufandth p.irt.

Burnet fays, Scotland

Memoir in Strype.

Forth, pre/i.

;

,

toiclt.

from the

Chrilt ; no further than we are wrought on by his
Hammond.
renewing grace.

8.

forf-worn f

And ev'n that power which gave me tiHt my oath,
I'rovokes me to this threefold perjury. Shakefpcarr.
One fays, be never Ihould endure the fight
Of thatyor^orji, that wrongs both lands and laws.

— And

juftification

Sbak. Tcmpefi,

Unto Ills gucrt

Fo R T

:

To FoRs'wEAR. -v. ».
to commit perjury.

Here's a maze trod, indeed,
ThroM^hforibrights and meanders.

end,

Do with your injuries as fcems you belf.

!

A ftrcight path.

FoRTHRi'cHT. fi.f.

You, coufin.

clear his voice, and liow aCTur'd his look 1

\ too have fworn,

Arrived there, they palTed \n forthright

For Hill to all the gate llood open wide. /•Viirv^ifcfK.
Thiiher_/or/injArlie rode to roufe the prey. Dry.

_/ir»i6t«;/A utterly become fruftrate.

Drydcn's /En.

For Bitias' death.

probable that an inferior, being called,
fhewed his atteation by anfwering in the
word yt%,forfaQth, which in time loft its
true meaning ; and inllead of a mere exclamatory interjeftion, was fuppofed a
It appears in Shalefpeare
compellation.
to have been ufed liicewife to men.
Our old Englilh vioxi fcrfootb has been charged
Guardian,
for the French madam.
To FORSWE'AR. i/. er. pret. for/wore :
putcfor/iuiirff. [pojif fsEfuan, Saxon.]
1. To renounce upon oath.

xi.\ixz'ti

winding, as if the lower llreams woufd
return to their fpring, or that the river had a delight
Sidney.
to play with ilfclf.

And dreams, 'gan now to take more found lepaft.

Mad Pandanis ta^iforth, with vengeance vow'd

caufe» forjootb^ they cannot difcover in them that
Baker.
jtumtn oraiionis that Cicero fpeaks of.

To wrong my friend, (hall I be

The river not running_/ii/ir/g4r, butalmoft continually

Look at the fecond admonition, and iofoitb^
where they fpeak in moft uuchriftian manner.

Some queOion the genuincncfs of his books, be-

That I have fondly fiatter'd her withal.
2. I'o deny upon oath.

He ever going fo juft with the horfe, eithtr_/ir/irigbt or turning, that it feemed as he borrowed the
horfe's body, fo he lent the horlc his mind. Sidniy,

ftraight.

Fairy Queen.

To feek her out.
2. Forward in place or order.

She would cry out murder, and difturb the whole
neigbourhood ; and when John came running down
the ftairs to enquire what the matter was, nothing,
fo'/oQibt only her maid had Ituck a pin wrong in
Arbutb. Hijl. ofjobn Bull.
her gown.

in ufe.

FoRTHwi'TH,<Jd''r. [forth and 'with,'\ Immediately ; without delay ; at once ;

Forward ; onward in time.

1

is faithful to the memory of herdccealcd lord.

I

whence

[pop^, "Saxon ;

further anA furtheft .^

her hulhand's funeral pile, to thtvi,forJixiih, that (he

2. It is fuppofed once to have been a
of honour in addrefs to women.

[from /o>/.] Furnifhed or

Not ufed now.
guari'ail by forts.
Your dcfert fpeaks loud, and 1 (hould wrong
To lock it in the wards of covert bofom.
When it defcrses with charadlers of brafs
/or;e</refidence, 'gainft the tooth of time
And rafure of oblivion. Sbak. Meafurefor Mrafure

Sbaltfpeare,

!

a realm,

adj.

Not

Straight forward ; without flexions.

For the loud engines which their ide defend, ^fuller.

Forsoo'th. ad'v, n:opj*o^i;, Saxon.
1.

FOR

FOR

FOR
am deliver us into the hinds of tiwlcri

Thou

[forth

and

ri^ht.}

the commodity oft'ered by the ground.

2.

Carevr.

One who fupports or fecures ; one who
upholds.

He wa> led forth by many armed mcn» who often

Sidney.

execution.

To ftrengthen agaiak attacks by walls or

Spenfer on Ireland.

works.

Faiifax.

To confirm; to encourage.

to eftablifh in refolution.
;
But in-born worth that fortune can coniroul,
Ncw-lb"ung and differ bent herfofter foul

There is no fuch way to give defence to ablurd
do^rines, as to guard them round about with legions
of obfcure and undefined words; which yet makes
thefe retreats more like the dens of robbers, or holes
of tozes, than thcfhrinj/es of fair warriots. Locke.

FORTU'ITOUS.<7i^-. [foriuif, French ;/or-

With this portentous bridge the dark abyfs. Miltt^.

A little

BUcktrtore.

L^cke.

To Fo'rtify. 11. ». To raifc ftrong places.
Thou us impower'd

To funify thus far and overlay
h.

[from /!//•/.]

/.

FoRTu'iTOUSLY. adv. [from forfuimus.]
Accidentally ; cafually ; by chance.

a blockhoufe.
Yet was the fence thereof but weak and thin
Naught fcar'd their force ihitfcrtiiage to win.
fort ;

It is partly evaporated into air» and partly diluted
into water, and fortuittujly Ihared between alt the

Spetfftr.

In all ftratghts and narrow paflfages there ihoulJ be

fome little fortilage, or wooden caftle
would keep and command the itraight.

fet,

which

Sfenfer.

FORTIN. n.f. [French.] A little fort raifed
to defend a camp, particularly in a fii^ge.

Hanmer.
Thou haft talk'd

Of Palifadoes,^iri/«, parapets.

elements.

Accident ; chance;

Sbakeffrare

tions.
1 am mo^fortunatt thus accidentally to encounter
you : you have ended my bufinefs, and 1 will merrily
accompany you home,
Shakrfpeare's Curiolanus.
He figh'd ; and could not but their fate deplore.
So wretched now, fo fortunate before.
V>ryd.

well.

The king-becoming gracu.
Devotion, patience, courage,ysr//Vw^^,
I have no relirti of thern
Sbakefpeare*i Macbeth.

No, there is a neceflily in fate

Why dill the brave bold man \i fortunate i

mifs.

Suength

;

natene.'s.

ditrum ttunurum, ut not.fed ttodium cr,mpu-

The fpace of two weeks.

.

.

,

Sidney.

majefty's declaration for liberty of coilfcicnce came
abroad.
Dryden.
He often had it in his head but never, with much
appreheiifioo, 'till about ifurgbinighi before. S-wifi.

[fortrejfe,

To Fo'rtune. 'V. n. [from the noun.] 'I'o
befal
to fall out; to happen ; to come
;

cafually to pafs.
\t fortuned, as fair it

Be brook'd with me. Sbakefp. Ant. and Cleopatra.

Fo'rtunbbook. n.f. [furta/je znd ioni.]
A book confulted to know fortune or future events.

On wliofc fair revolutions wait
The obfequious motions of love's fate.

French.]

A

Crafhatv.

Fort u N EH u'n T F R. n.f. \forlune and hunt.']

A man whofe employment is to enquire
after women with great portions, to enrich

himfelf by marrying them.

We

futurity.

We are fimple men; we do not know what'*
brought to pafs under the profisllion oifortunetelling:

Sbak.

Sb.jkefpeare,
I'll conjure

v

ing \\ncii. Of byfortunetelling.

Among (o '.irave a people you arc they

Whom l^v'n has chofc to tight for fuch a priw.
DriJen.

T he adequate meaning of chance, as dillinguilhcd
ircm fortune, in
bcfal only

that the latter is underftood to
rational agents, but chance to be among

inanimate bodies.

Hentley.

The chance of life

;
means of living.
His father dying, he was driven to London to feck

\\\'.fmlune.

4. Succefs, good or bad ; event.

you, I'll frtunetell you, Sbakefpeare.

The gyplies were to divide the money got by Heal-

In you iheyir/awol Great hrit.iin liesi

3.

ad/. Supplied by fortune.

Of the full fortuned Ciefar ever (hall

To FoRTU N ETELL. 'V, tt. [fortune inA iell.\
To pretend to the power of revealing

My mind enceeds the compafi of Iier wheel.
2. The good or ill that befalls man.

•

ihenbefel

Behind his back, unweeting, where hj ftood.
Of ancient time there was a fpnnging well,
From which faft trickled forth a filver flood.
Fairy S^ueen.
II fortuned, thefame night that a Chriftian, fervinj;
a Turk in the camp, fecretly gave the watchmen
Knolleu
warning.
I'll tell you as we pafs along.
That you will wonder what hu\iforlun'd. Sbakefp,
Pope's DunciaJ,
Here yorrw«'</ Curl to llide.

fuppofed to diftributc the
lots of life according to her own humour.

Rejoice, faid he, to-djy

Hinging on a deep well, fomewhat above ilic
for fome fori/iigbu fp.ice, is an excellent
means of making drmk Ircfh and quick.
Har^jn.
About ifmgbtnigbt before 1 had hnittied if, his

«, /.

But mark her face, and all the features heed ;
For only there is writ my delf iny. Orwlry's Miftrefs.

Foitune, that arrant whore,
Ne'er turns the key to the poor. Sbakf. King Lear.
ThoM^'n fortune's malice overthrow my (late.

vt'.tter,

Fortress.

To find out mine, look not, alas, on me

mull, however, didinguilh bctweenyoi7w»*bunter: and fortuneltealcrs.
Speiiator,

The power

1.

Stvif.

Futurity ; future events.
You who men's fortunes in their faces read^

7.

fortune,

i

French.]

She would give her a lelTon for walking fo late,
tVit Ihould mikc her keep within doon for o-.Kfri:

When mifs delights in herfpinnet,

A fidler may ^ fortune get.

Sidney.

Fu'RTUNE. H.f. [ forluaa, lAtin

Spe£iator.

view'.

-

O me, faiJ (he, whofc %nMx^ foriunatenefs is
more unfortunate than my (liters greateft uniortu-

was the ctiilom of the ancient northern
rations to count time by nights; thus we
fay, this dayfeven-r.ight. So Tacitus, Ntn

.

upon her, and take care to plant themfelves in her

Prior.

Happinefs; good lucic ; fuccels.

Not in ufe.

To join withwitohesand the help of Hell! Shakrff.
Fo'rtlet. n.f. [from/er/.] A little fort.
FoRTN-rcHT. ». /. [coiitrafted from/!>«ruennighii, peoppezyne nijhr, Saxon. It

":''

Pro/, to Cipban.

The fortune hunters have already call their eyes

Thou know'ft a face, in whofe each look
Beauty lays ope iovc'sfortunebook ;

Fo'rtunathness. »./. \JmrR fortunate.]

He » rongs his fame,
Defpairinft of his own arm's fortitude.

taitt.'\

Of the next fpaits that goa/or(»«ftealing.

fuccefsfully.

And IwUly wife, iniiforiunately great.

J^elfan.

force.

;

Fled to efcape a cruel guardian's hands

[from /oriunale.]

ad-v.

ge-

Which may produce a rtory worth the telling.

Bright Eliza rul'd Britannia's ftatei

to the memories of martyn; pirily that others might
be encouraged to the fame patience and fortitude^

2.

Dryden. )

Happily

They thought it reafonablc to do all poflible honour

and partly that virtue, even in this world, might not

\

Fo'rtunatfly.

:

nerally of a woman.
I am thought fome heirefs rich in lands,

Not th' imperious Ihew

True, 'tis a narrow path that le.ids to bills,
^
But right before there is no precipice
/
Fear makes them look afide, and fo their footing

Milton's Paradife Loft.

the guard and fupport uf the other
virtues^ and without courage, a man will fcarce keep
fteady to hii duly and hU up the chara^er of a truly
worthy n)An.
Locke.
ii

Jofc its reward.

The portion of a man or woman

Fo'rtunkd.

He keeps his obje£l ever full in light,
And that aflurance holds htm firm and right

•

The belter firliludt
Of patience, and hcroick martyrdom
Fortitude

;

Swift.

birth, but itTizWfrlune.

6.

hit.

;

;

Unfung.

[ftOia/artuitout .]

Fo'rtunate. adj. [fartunalus, Latin.]
Lucky h.ippy ; fuccefsful not fubjeft
to mifcarriage. Ufed of perfons or ac-

Courage bravery magnanimity; greatnefs of mind; powerofadtingorfufTering
;

Rogers.

FoRTu'lTOUSNESS. »./.

Fo'«TlTUUE. n.f. yfortiluda, Latin.
1.

The fate which governs poets, thought it fit
He (hould not raife K^fortuncs Ijy his wit. Dryden.
He was younger fon to a gentleman of a good

Lat.] Accidental ; cafual ; happening by chance.

A wonder it muft be, tliat there {bould be any man
found fo ftupid as to perfuade himfelf that this molt
beautit'ul world could be produced by tht fortuitous
concourfe of atoms.
Ray.
If cafual concourfe did the worldcpropofe,
And things and iAsfortuitous arofe.
Then any thing might come from any thing ;
For how from chance can conllant otder fpring.

Dryden,

Preferv'd ^a\srfrtunes in that fatal hour ?

luitus,

The heroine alTumM the woman's place,

Fo'rtilage.

To raife tnyfortunes.

Let usrefolVc to fcale their flinty bulwarks. Sh^krfp.

Confirm'd her mind, and fortify' d her face, Dryden.
A young man, before he leaves the (belter of his
father's houfe, Ihould be /ir/Z/iVi/ with refolution la
fecurc his virtues.

That eyelefs head of thine was (irft fram'd fle(h
Sbakefpeare* i King Lear,
But tell me, Tityrus, what heav'nly power

God is ourforrre/s, in whole conqu'ring name

^o

To fix

If thou do'ft,

And this inltru£lsthee, thou do'ft make thy way
To TiQ\3\t for tunes.
Sbakefpeare's King Lear,

Their weapon, faith ; thcitforlrefs was the grave.

It %xti\\'j fortifieJ her dcfirej, to fee that her moSidney,
ther had the like defires.
fortify the former opinions Toftatus adds,
that thofe which dwell near the falls ot water are
deaf from their infancy ; but this I hold as feigned.
Raleigh.

3.

Eftate; pofleffions.

5.

The trump of death founds in their hearing (hrill

Great Dunfinane'h* ftrongly/£>i-;//f«. Shake/peart.
Wcfiriljied the city againltbefieging. Ecclts. 1. 4.

t.

This terreftrial globe has been furiounJed hy the
7emplc.
fortune and boldnefs of many navigators,
No, he (hall eat, and die with me, or live ;
Our e^ual crimes, (hall equaiyir/Bwe give. Dryden,

ftrong hold ; a fortified place ; a caftle of
defence.
Breaking forth like a fudden temped he over-ran
all, breaking down all the holds iniforlrejjes.

To FO'RriFY. rv. a. [fortifitr, French.]
I.

FOR

FOR

FOR
had'Seen the fartijiert of wickednefs, to the place o f

S-wift.

fValton's Angler,

To reveal futurity.

z.

Here, while his canting drone-pipe fcaa'd

The myftick figurtrs of her hand.
He tipples palmetlry, and dines

On all iMrfortunetelling lines.

Cleavelattd,

Fo'rt uneTeli.er. n.f. [fortune nnAteiltr.'\
One who cheats common people, by pre-'
tending to the knowledge of fmiirity.
Theybroughtonc Finch, ahungrylean-fac'dvillain»

A thread-bare jug^'lcr, and Aj^rtunetelltj

.

Shakefp.

A Wclcluaau being at a fcllienii-baufe, and Iccmg
$ K. 2

the

?o s

F 6R

/

harJs at {he bar, rcllted
to feme of his acquainunce that the judges were
fftoi /orlunfltl/irs ; for if they did but look upon
their hand, ihey could certainly tell whether they
Bacmi's Apophtkrpni.
Ihould live or di(.
Hail thou given credit to vain prediction:) of men,
or
gone about to know
toimrta CT fcytunereflfrr,
any fecret thing by lot ? Duffa's ra/njor Dnctim.
There needs no more than impudence on one fide,
tVt prifonerj hold up their

aiid a fupcrf^itious credulity

fetting up of tfrrltuKliller.

L'Kflrayigr,

Long ago zfortuneteUtr
Exadly faid what now befell her.

To haften ; to quicken ; to accelerate in
growth or improvemsnt.

1.

Sviift.

FCRTY. fl^". [peopeprij, Saxon.]

Four

As we houfe hot country plants, as lemons, to

I

2.

FO'RUM. n.f.

•

[Latin.] Anypublick place.

lawyers and orators made iheir fpfechcs before their
proper judge in matters of property, or in criminal
cal'cs, to accufe or cxcufe, to complain or defend.
IVatii OH ibi Mind,
Clofe to the bay great Neptune's fane adjoins.

Fo'rw a r d l y

felt,

J.

adv.

own favour, and is not the ihing he
BacoH^i Effayt.

Fo'rward. adj.

[frona the adverb.]

j

They would that we (hould remember the poor,
Gal. ii. ic^.
Which I alfo vtii forward to do.
2. Ardent ; eager; hot; violent.
You'll ftill be too fortvard. Sb. Tivo Ceitl. ofVer.
Unlkill'd to dart the pointed (pear.
Prior.
Or kad thcforivard youth to noble war.

Ready ; confident ; prefumptuous.
And thus falutet the boy \oo foriuariiox his years.
Drydfn,

Not teferved; not over inodeft»

'Tis a per'lous boy.
Bold, quick, ingenious, yor-U'ari^, capable.
He's all the mother's from ihe top to toe. Shakrff.

Premature; early ripe.
Short Summer lightly has a_/irwar<y Spring. Sbak.

6.

not that benefit

it

Ihould

of

information it receives from civil or natural
in being too for-uiard or too flow in
making obfcivations on the particular faOs recorded
ihe

hiltorians,

in them.

Had

they,

Lf>cke.

whn would pcrfii.ide us that there aie

innate principles, conlideicd feparately the parta out
of whicn thefe piopofiliuos are made, they would
not perhaps have been io foi^U'ard to believe they

were innalc.

LccJie,

Antecedent; anterior; opposed to pofterior.
Let us take the inl^ant by the forivard lop ;
For we arc old, and on our quick'lt decrees
Th' inaudible and noifelefs foot of time
Steals, ere we can effct\ ihcm.
Sbakcfftare.

8.

incredi-

Bacon.

Quicknefs; readinefs.
He had fuch a dextrous proclivity, as his teachers

In France it is ufual to bring their children into

company, and tocberilh in them from their infancy,
a kind oifor^ardnefs and aflurance.

Not behindhand not inferiour.
My good Camillo,
;

6Ije

is

Addifon.

Fo'rwa RDS. adn). Straight before ; progrefnot backwards.
The Rhodian Ihip paffed through the whole Roman fleet, backwards and for*wardt feveral times,
fively ;

Arbuthnot.

FOSSE, n.f. [/2^, Latin ;/w, Welch.]

A ditch
Fo'ssET.

a moat.
See Faucet.

;

Fo'sseway. n.f.

aty^rtvrfr^ of h-r breeding, as

She « i' th' tear o' our birth. Sbuke. IVlnUr'j Ta.'e.

up in blood by his naughty father.

iiidney.

3. to chetifh ; to forward.
\tfoftering breezes blow
Ye foftening dews, ye tender fhowers defcend.

One

FO'SSIL. adj. [fofftlis, Latin ; fifJUe, Fr.]
That which is dug out of the earth.
many of them of the fame
Thcfojjii fliells
kinds with thofc that now appear upon the neighbouring (horcs ; and the reft fuch as may be prefumed
are

to be at the bottom of the adjacent Teas. IP'oodivard.
Fofjil or rock fait, and fal gemm, differ not in

nature from

e.'^li

of fait fprings,

'

'

other; nor from the common fait
that of the fea, when pure.
IP'oodxvard*! Natural Hiflory.

h is of a middle nature, between ffJU. and animal, being produced from animal excrements, intermixed with vegetable faks. Arbulbnot on Alimentt.

Fo'sTE R BROTH E R. «. /. [poftejl ppotWfl,
Saxon.] One bred at the fame pap ; one
fed by the fame nurfe.
Fo'sTERCHiLD. n.f. [poj-Tep cilb, SaxoH.J
A child nurfed by a woman not the mo»
ther, or bred by a man not the father.
liitfojler ebiidrexio love and are beloved of theit

Davits on Ireland,

fofterfathers.

The goddefs thus beguil'd.
With pleafant flories, her li.\(efcflercbild. Addifon,

Fosterd'am. n. f. [fofler and

dam.']

A

nurfe ; one that performs the office of a
mother by giving food to a young child»

Thereby the wolf, were laid the martial twins :
Intrepid on her fwellingdugs they hung;
Theyi/?fr;i3»jloU'd out her fawnipg tongue. Dryden.

FoSTERe'aRTH. n.f.

[fofier and earlh.'\
Earth bj^ which the plant is nourilhed,
though it did not grow at firft in it.

Seems fair a while, cherilh'd vi'uhfojlerearth ;
But when the alien compoft is exhault.
Its native poverty again prevails !

Philips,

Fo'sterer. n.f. [from _/i/?^r.] A nurfe j
one who gives food in the place of a parent.
In Ireland they put their children to foflerersi
the rich men fellmg, the meaner fort buying the
alterage of their children : in the opinion of the
Irilh, foftering has always been a ftronger alliance
than blood.
Da-vies on Ireland.

Fo'sTERFATHER.

». f.
[poj-tefipaben,
Saxon.] One who gives food in the place

of the father.
in Ireland fofterchildren d<> love and ate beloved
more than of

by thiix fojlerfatbers, and their fept,
their own natural parents and kindred.

Darvies.

The Duke of Bretagne having been an hort and

Fo'ssiL. n.f.
In this globe are many other bodies, which, becaufc we difcovcr them by digging into the bowels of
the earth, are called by one common namc_/o^/j ; under which are comprehended metala and minerals.

Lcke.
HiTr^fcffiU are very oddly and elegantly (haped.

Be HI ley.
By the vioxi fqjfil, ufed as a denomination of one
of three general divifions ot natural produiltipns, we
underiUnd bodies farmed ufually within the earth,
fometimcs on its furface, and fometinics in waters;
of a plain and fimple rtrucfurc, in which thcie n no
vifibiedilferciiceofparis, no JiltinAioii of velfds and
their contents, but every portion of which is flmilar
Hill's Mai. Mrd.
to and pcilcft as the wliole.
Thole bodies wluch will melt in tlie tire are called
minerals, the n&foJJUi,

Some one adjoining to this lake had the charge
inifojlerage of this child.
Raleigh's Hifiory.

In vain the nurfling grove

\frffe s.iii.'way.'l

of the great Roman inroads through England, fo called from the ditches on each

Qoick ; ready > halty.
TBc mind makes

7.

phantafm with

fide.

OldButes' form he took, Anclnles fquire,

Now left to rule Afcanius by his fire

5.

Hooker.

The great ones were in_/i)ru'«r</»^,the people in

carrying intelligence to Drepanum.

Warm; earneft; not backward.

;

Thamfort.

meaning.

1,

Drydett,

To pamper to encourage.
A prince of great courage and beauty, but fofitrei

Fo'sTERACE. n.f. [from/o/yfr.] The charge
of nurfing ; alterage.

4. Confidence ; affurance ; want of modefty.

was.

4..

Hooker.

A Ihepherd and a king at once he reigns.
2.

thered by ill men of a finifter intent and purpofe,
vhoit ,r-u:ardnrfi is not therefore a bridle to fuch
as favour the fame caufe with a better and fincere

She up arofe, refolving him to hnd

He that is ufed to %a forward, and Hndelh a ftop,

Cleavelani.'

The fon of Mulciber,
Found in the fire, ini fcfler'd in the plains,

Is it fo ftrange a matter to find a good thing fur-

were fain to rcftrain \\\%fiir'uiardnifs : that his brothers who were under the fame training, might hold
kf'otton.
pace with him.
3. Earlinefs ; early ripenefs.

falleth off bis

"

to live, 01 for

Towards ;
ward; progreffively.
When terventforrow llakcd was.

Alive or dead, tnifanvard forth doth pafs. Fairy S^.
From fmaller things the mind of the hearers may
{o forrvard to the knowledge of greater, and climb
Hooktr,
up from the lowtft to the bighelt things.

3.

either wiUingncfs

•uiardmf to die.

ble affedion.

[poppeapb, Saxon.J
to a part or place before; on-

1.

[fromyor'wajv/.]

Eagernefs; ardour; readinefs to aft.
Ablolutely we cannot difcommend, we cannot ab-

fury, entertaining this airy

A weary vj\%htforv}and*ring by the way. Fairy ^.

No more let Ireland brag her harmtefs nation
Fofiers no venom fince that ScoU plantation.

Ihould not fufl'er us tooforwardiy to admit preAtlerbury.

fohitely approve

DavUi-

blood.

[from the adjeftlve.]

Fo'rwardness. n.f.

To wander wililly and wearily.

FO'RWARD.

adv.

.

funiption.

Where the bold youth, the num'rous fleets to (lore.
Shape the broad fail, orfmooth the taper oar. Pope.
Ti FoRWa'nder. '-J. a. [for znA-vwuiter.^

The better part now of the ling'ring day
They travelled had, when as tbey far efpy'd

He

Bred but on alms, vaiffier'd with cold diihes.
With fcrapso' th' court. Sbakefpeare's Cymbtline
Fojlering has always been a Itronger alhance tham

Eagerly ; haftily ; Quickly.
The fudden and furprifing turns we ourfelves have

And near i forum flank'd with marble (hines.

'

Siuifl,

who promotes any thing,

L'EJlraitii.

The forum was a publick place in Rome, whert

Whenever I (hine,
forwatd the grafs and I ripen the vine.
'I o patronife; to advance.

Fo'rwarder. n. f. [from forwardJ]

On fairground 1 could \xzif»ty of them. Shatef.
He that upon levity quits his ibtioB, in hopes to
.

.

That bafc wretch.

Bacon'i Platural Hlflory.

feafons.

times ten.

be better, 'tis/ory to one lofes.

To nurfe; to feed; to fupport ; to traiit
up.
Some fay that nitn^fojler forlorn children. Sbak,
Our kingdom's earth Ihould not be foil'd
With that dear blood which it huth fojlered Sbakef.

1.

fave them ; fo we may houfe our own country plants
to for-ward themi and make them come in the cold

to the

oa the other,

F O S
To FO'STER. -v. a. [pofrpjan, Saxoti.}

To Fo'rward. v. a. [from the adverb.]

Pemberttn,

a kind of parent ox foflerfatber to the king, in his
tendernefs of age and weaknefs of fortune^ did loolc
for aid this time from King Henry.

Bacvn.

Tyrrheus, tYiefoJleifaiber of the beaft.

Then clench'd a harcliet in his horny tilt,

Foster mo'ther. n.f.

Dryd.

[ffier and mother.^

A nurfe.

Fosternu'rse.

n.f. [fcfier and nur/i,'\
This is an improper compound, becaufc
fojier and nurfe mean the fame.] A nurfe.
Oit ftflernurfe of nature is repofe,

^ The which he lacks.

Shateffeart's Xing Leai

Fo'sterson. n.f. [fofier and /o/r.] One
fed and educated, though not the fon by
nature.

.

Matu,

•

F O U

F O U

Mifure in years, to ready hsnoun msf*;

8.

Oofceleftiall'eeJ! Ofofierfoi oi Io'k\ Dryd.V'irg.

fOUGA'DE. n.f. (French. J

In the art of
war, a fort of little mine in the manner
of a well, fcarce more than ten feet wide
and twelve deep, dug under fome work
or fortification, and charged with barrels
or facks of gunpowder to blow it up, and
covered over with earth.
Dia

How ftul it is

;

I

Be fair mfoul, or rain or ftiine.

y^iifaulne/i of th' infernal form to hide.

Waller,

men might fall/ew/ of each
Clarendon.

The gre« art of the devil, and the principal deceit of the heart, is to keep fair with God
himfcif,

FOUL. adj. {fmls, Gothitk pi, Saxon.J

South,

while men fall _/ia(/ upon his laws.

mod of its (ignibcations it is oppofed to
fair.

to make filthy ; to dirty.
Sweep your walks from autumnal leaves, leil
the
worms draw them into their holes, and >„/ your
«»"''"
E'velyn.
While Tiaulus all his ordure fcatleri.
Tofoul the man he chiefly flatters.
Sviift.
Shc/sK/j a fmock more in one hour than
the

^i, xvi. i6.
wafh my brain,

monllrous labour when I
Anditgrowsyia/rr. Shakejf. Antony and Clto}atr a.
He that can travel in deep and foul ways, ought
Tilloi/om.
not to fay that he cannot walk in fair.
The ftream isyojr/wiih Itains

Addifon.

It fell not; for it

it

It black fcandal, atfapfac'd
reproach.
Attend the fequel of your impofitioo.

Shaktff. King I.tar.
Intemperance and IcnGjality debalc men^A mindi,

Your mere enforcement (hall acquittance me
From all the impure blots and llajns thereof. Shake/.

clog their fpirits, and make them f,Kii,Jikl,

and unaAive.

lilticfs

Fo'uLLY.

Tiliotjoit.

He halesyc*/ lealingt and vile flattery.
Hubttrd'i Tale.

to raifc.
;
Thelc tunes of reafon are Amphion's lyre.
Wherewith he did the Theban city found. Da-uiet.
They Gabian walls, and ftrong Fidenae rear,

u {iK/jkltfl atheifm, that can be imagined.
HaJt.

odioully; hatefully;
difgraccfuUy ; Ihamefully.
We in the world's wide mouth
Live (candaliz'd, zni fully fpokeii of.
Shakfp,

O brother, brother
\

To laugh at their vain deeds, and vainer thought!.

2.

yu-

Cay.

It was allowed by every

Sbake/f, Henry IV.
body, ihiXiofulmoutbed
A.1di/.n

My repuiaiion i« too

well

cftabli(hed

in

Ariutbnei,

ween.

fo'uLNESs.

Power, founded on contrail, can defcend only to

ignorance of his timej.

^

J.

I .

The

Fleance is efcap'd.

To Found, -v. a.

It is no vicious blot,

Rcafon half eitinil.
Thtmfon'i Sfring.

Shake/peart,

Theie is not fo chafte a nation as this, nor fo free
it is

world,

3.

FouNDA'riotr.
I.

n.f.

[/«»</«/«», French?]

The bafis or lower parts of an edifice.
The ftatclinefs of houfcs, the goodlinefs ot trees
when we behold them, delighteth the eye

;

but that

foundation

murder, oifoulnefi.

from all pollution at fiuhe/i;

:

[fundere, l,atin ; fottdre,

Severing each kind, fcum'd the bullion drofs, Milioir,

No unchafte aiaion, or dilhonour'd (lep,
That hath depriv'd me of your grace and favour.

Or impoKnr, 01 elf* appjoying, fees

hadelfe been perfeft.

A fecond multitude

Polltition ; impurity.

2.

I

With wondrous irrfunded the malTy ore.

filthinefs

were not dcftroyed but purified by fire and whereas
j
the fpots otfuUe/t of other deaths are walked
out.
in ihefe they were ufually burnt away,
kfilkin

Too well I fee a.nd rue ih: dire event.

:

French.] To form by melting and pour>
ing into moulds ; to caft.

fi.f.

The ancients were wont to make garments that

'

Pofi's Preface to the Iliad,

Whole as the mit\>W,funded as the to--M.. Shakefp.

naAinefs.

ia„,

To fix firm.

—Then comes my fit again

p^j,^

{from feu/.]
quality of being foul ;

Decay of Piety,

him who has a right bj that contraa.
Locke.
The reputation of tlie Iliad they /wni/ upon th«

Scolds intwtrfoulnoutb'd (cMsi bad neighbourhood
I

he

To raife upon, as on a principle or
ground.
Though fome have made ufe of the opinion of

A

the

Now finging (hrill, and fcoldingoft between.

To

give birth or original to: as,
foutiJeti an art ; \\cfouniied a family.

right to the ufe of the crealuics it funded
originally in the right a man has to fubfift.
Lockt,

world to receive any hurt from fuch a foulmouihed
fcoundre! as he.

1 Mac. ii. 13.

fome fchoolmen, that dominion \% founded in grace
;
were it admitted as the moft certain truth, it could
never warrant any fuch fanguinary method.

Sl,ak,/f:a,e.

a witnefs never appeared in any caule.

.>

7. Coarfe; grofs.
You wi.'l have na notion of delkaeics if y»u Ubie
with them
ihey ire all for rank and yix/ feeding,
and fp»il the beft proviGoni in cooking,
ftltm.

do, forgive me, do.

Not lawfully; not fairly.

My Lord, he fpeaks moll vilely of you, like a
/oulmouib'd man as he is, and faid he would cudgel

Haft thou forgot
Tiiefiul witch Sycjra», who with age and envy
Was grown into a hoop
Sbakrjp. T. mfK-Jl.
Foul fights do rather difpleafc, in that they eiciie
the memory of yla/ things than in the imnediale
objeflj ; and thereSore, in pi^ures, ximftfail fights

That with fad overthrow xaijout defeat
Halh loft us heav'n.
Miltun'i Paradifr Lxjl
Who firft fedut'd them to that_/i«/ revolt J Mitt.

5.

Filbert ftilUs true;

aiij.
[foul and mouthA
Scurrilous; habituated to the ufe of opprobrious terms and epithets.

Faliy Sluien.

taan.

:

4.

Foul MOUTH ED

5. Hateful; ugly; loathfome.
Tb' other half did woman's ftiape retain,
Moft loathfome, 6Ithy,/c«/, and full of vile dlldain.

All things that feem hf,ul and difagrceabic in
nuutt, are not really fo in themfelvcs, but only

foully wrong'd him

!

Thou pjay'dft moH foully for't.

Dryden,

Not lawful; not according to the eftablifhed rules.
hyfouJ play were we heav'd thence.
But blefledly help'd hither.
Sbake/p. Ttmfrfi.

and ainHay-ward.

Milton,

Hi founding a library, gathered together the afls
of the kings and prophets.

avarice,

'"''°",-

Satire has always fliane among the reft.

6. Difgraceful; (hamefni.

This alio (hall they gain by their delay
Inthe wide wildernefs; th«re they (haliyinwri
Their government, and their great fenate chufe.
Through the twelve tribes, to rule by laws ordain 'd,

nallily ;

aiid/W/y fel foiih his obllinacy,

And if the boldeft way if not the belt.
To tell men truly of mt'irfoulrjl faults.

relatively,

And raife Colatian tow'rs on rocky ground. Dryden,
3. Toeftablifh; to erefl.

[from/o*/.j

The letter to the protector was. gilded over with
many fmoolh words; but ihe other two did fully

This it the groffell and moft irrational fuppofition,

p/, xxiv, »,

To build

z.

fcandaloufly;

Mark, it. zj.

do not much ofTend.

filthily;

I.

Wicked; deteftable; abominable.

adj.

upon the floods.

Nomentum.Bola with Pometia/o«W

^baktjf. Mejf.fxr MtaJ.
Kill ihy phyfician, and the fee bellow

Upon the/o:</dife*fe.

vmfounded ufaa a rock. MatlB.

He hMh funded it upon Use lias, and ellablilhcd

an ugly or hateful vifage.

To call him tillaip.

To lay the bafis of any building.

.

to uLF AC ED. aiff [foul indfacfj.] Having

Withyi*/ mouth.

•tU/oiil diforder.

French.]
I

kilchen-maid doth in a week. H-iufi's Direa, toSrrv

And in the witnela of his proper ear.

4.

To FOUND, ni. a. [funJare, Latin ,foniier,

tobemirc;

My face isyia/ with weeping.

at well

oifiuti.
I am fought of them that aflted not for
me: I am
y«(Wof them that fought me not.
I/jiah,, Uv. I.
Authors now find, as once Achilles_^aBj','
The whole is mortal if a part's unfouiid.
Yount.

[Among feamen.] Entangled: as, a
roye is f.ul of the anchor.
To l-ouL. -v. a. [pulan, Saxon.] To daub;

Not clean; filthy; dirty; miry. Through

Two filthy bloii in noble gcntcry.

Found. The preterite and participle paffive

11.

;

Jffus rebuked ilic_/ii(/ fpirit.

Piety is oppofed 10 hypocrify and infincerity
anj
all talfenefsor/Wn/^of intentions;
efpecially to
that perfouatcd devotion, under which any
kind of
impiety is wont to be difguifed.
Hampiord.

As (hips, though never fo obfequious, fall
In his fillies their

Drydn.

Difhonefty; want of candour.

5.

Michael and hii Jiigcu, prevalent
Encamping, pUc'd in guard their watchn room!
Miliom'i Peradi/e LaJI.
Cherubick waring tires.

3.

Her looks and limbs and with new methods tried

Opprefs'd by thofe who ftrove to be her guard

o'""-

m

The fury laid afide

With rough force; with unfcafonable

F<mt in a tempeft on their admiral.

Of rulhing torrents and del'crnding raini.
2. Impure; polluted; full of Alth.

He's fallen in love with yoMr foulne/s, and
Ihc'il
love with my anger.
Sbakc/p. Asyau like it.

violence.
So in this throng bright SacharilTa far'd,

Conteftedi difputed

South.

Uglinefs; deformity.

fall

Drydin.

hj arms.
On Ihe fougblen field

'""' yo"/'".
difchargingall

and foulne/t into this one quality, as into

He by an affeaioii (prung up from ezcelTive
beauty, (hould not delight in ^imxMe/ouhc/i.Sldney.

One minded like the weather, moll inquietly. Sbak.

Whom Rupert led, and »lio were Briiilh born. Dryd.
Fo'uGHTEN. [The paffive participle of

.

filth

a great (ink or common fewer.

4.

The joys 1 have profefs'd, in fpite of fate are mine.

Though unknown to me, tbeyfure_/ii»fA/ well,

•

It IS the wickcdnefs of a whole life,
Its

Shake/.

Who's there befidesyW weather?

10.

li'a

Thtfu/nr/, of fome fafts takes thence all mercy,

what rank difeafes grow,

And with what danger near the heart of it.
9. Not bright; not ferene.

Jight.

1.

Conful, yoa are too mili:

You perceive the body of our kingdom.

FoucHT. The preterite and participle of

fight. Rarely ufed.]

F O U

Full of grofs humours, or bad matter;
wanting purgation or mundification.

Haiefulnels ; atrocioufocfs.

the virgin of the

^a„„.

which beareih up the one, that root
which miniftreth unto the other nourilhment, is in
the bofom of the earth concealed.
Hooker,
That is the way to make the city flat.
To bring the roof to i\ie fundaiion.

To bufy >»•

Shake/p. Coriolanus^
Jove, I think.
Foundation! fly the wretched; fuch, I mean.
Where they (hould be reliev'd. Shake/f. CoriolanuK

O

I

draw a line along (hare ;

lis;

F O U
1 lay the Att^fiumjaliont of a wall,

Aca Eiux, nam'd from me, ihc city call,
The aft of fixing the bafis.

z.

Dryjm.

The principles or ground on which any
notion is raifcd.
If we give way to our ptiGoni, we do but gratify

ourfelves for the prefcnt, in order to our future difauiet ; but if we refill and conquer them, wc lay the

frmndaihn of perpetual peace in our minds. TUIotfort,
That die (hould be fubjefl to her hu(bai d, (h:
laws of mankind, and cufloms of nations have or-

Stvift.

purpofe, particularly charity.

New fliips, built at thofe rates, have been ready
tofounder in tlic feas with every extraordinary dotm.

Raleigh's Kffays.

To fail; to mifcarry.

2.

All his tricks y"oa«</fr; and he brings his phyfick
After his patient's death.
Shakefp. Henry Vlll.

Fo'uNDERY. n.f. [fonderi, Fr. itomfound.l

A place where figures are formed of melted metal; a caftmg-houfe.

We, like baftards, are laid abroad, even asfound-

Fo'uKDER. n.f. [iiom found.']

1

And into noble families advance

A namelefs iflue the blind work of chance. Dryd.
A piece of charity pradifed by moll of the nations
;

But rivers,'o!d as feas to which they go.
Are nature's bounty: 'tis of more renown

To make a river than to build a town.

about us, is a proviflon ior foundlings, or for ihofc
children who are expofed to the barbarity of cruel
and unnatural parents.
Addifon.
The goddefs long had mark'd the child's diftrefs.

Waller.

Nor was VttEmAe^^ founder wanting there.

Whom fame reports the fon of Mulciber. Dryden.
3. One who eftablilhes a revenue for any
purpofe.

The wanting orphans faw with wal'ry eyes
T\a:\ifounder's charity in the duft laid low. Dryden.
This hath been cxperimeutally proved by the ho-

And long had fought his fufF'rings to redrcfs;

or begins any thing.

Dryden.

King James I. the founder of the Stuart race,
had he not con6ned all his views to the peace of his
own reign, his fon had not been involved in fuch
fatal troubles.

A woman that elbblifties any charitable

2.

revenue.
For of their order die was patronefs,
Albe Clarifla was thcirchief 'ft/oH/ti/r.yr. Faiiy S^.
For zeal like her's, her fervants were to fliow ; ~
She was the fii<l, where need requir'd to go
Herfelf thefou/tdrefs, and attendant too. Dryden.
!en.^

FOUNT.

Struck to the centre with his flaming dart

A well

1

Sounder! add a

little

antimony

2.

Proofs as clear as fjunts in July,

A jet; a fpout of water.

3.

Brutes tind out where their talents lie:

A bear will not attempt to fly;
Jifounder'd horfe will oft debate,
.Before lie tries a five-bart'd gate.

Szvifi.
If you find a gentleman fond of )-our horfe,
per.

fuadc your mafter to fell him, bccaulii he it vicious,
»itifoundned into the bargaia.
Hv/ifi.

P::pe's Odyffey.

n. /.

tricking fellow.

[French.]

A cheat; a

Not in ufe.

Jove's envoy, through die air.
Brings difmal tidings; as if luch low care
Could reach their thoughts, or their repofe difturb }
Thou art a falfe impollor, and tfourhe. Denbam.

Fourfo'ld.

adj.

[four anA fold.]

Four

times told.

He diall redore the lunhfourfold, becaufe he had
1 Sam. xii. 6.

no pity.

FouRFo'oTED. adj. [fourzndfoot.] Quadruped; having twice two feet.
">

.^ugur Allylos, whofe art in vain

From fight dilVuaded ihcfaurfoied train,

S.

;

2. It is ufed elliptically for fourfcore yean

in numbering the age of man.
At feveiiteen years many their fortunes feek.
But :iKfourfcore it is too late a week.
Shakefp.
Some few might be of ufe in council upon great
occafions, 'till after tlueefcore and ten ; and the two
late minifters in

Spain were fo 'till/oirr/'rare.
Temple.

Foursquare. r7(^'. [yiar and fquare ] Quadrangular ; having four fides and angles
equal.

The temple of Bel was environed with a wall
CiTt\tifourfjuare, of great height and beauty ; and
on each

fijuare

certain brazen

graven.

gates curioiifly enRaleigh's HiJItry,

Fourth EN. <7///. [peopeptyn, Saxun.] Four
and ten twice fcven.
I am noi fourteen pence on the fcore for (heer ale.
;

Fowrialnt I intend to be of two natures the one
that fpnnkleth or fpouteth water; the other a fair
receipt of water, without filh, or (lime, or mud.
:

The head or firft fpring of a river.

4.

All anions of your grace are of a piece, as waters
keep the tciior ol i\\e\r fountains : your compaflion
is general, and has the fame
eflia as well on enemies as friends.
Dryden.

:

Than all liie fwift-ficin'd racers of the flood. Dor/et.

when

Shakefp. Henry Vlll.
Can a man drink better from ihtfuntain finely
paved with marble, than when it fwcUs over the
green turf?
Taylor.
Narciflus on the gralTy verdure lies;
1
But whilft within the cry&il fount he tries
f
To quench his heat, he feels new heat aiife. Addif. J

f» Ft/uNDER. T. fl. [fonJrt, French.] To

he fiw me and yielded.
Sbakefp. Henry IV.
Thy Itumb ing/!i»«,/fr',/jade tail trot aa high
As •ny other Pegafut can fly;
So the dull eel moves nimbler in the mud.

A fmall bafon of fp ringing water. ,
We fee each grain of gravel.

to their bell-

Phoebus' deed! infounjer'd.
Or night kept cliain'd btlow.
Shakefp. TempeJI.
I hxiif under' d nine fcore and odd polls; and
here travel-tainted as I am, have, in my pure and
immaculate valour, taken Sir John Colcvillc of the
Dale, a mod furious knight
but what of that f

a fpring.

Ambrofial fruits, fetch'd from the tree of life;
And from the/o««/ of life ambrofial drink. Milt.

metal, to make it more fonorous ; and fo pewterers
to their pewter, to make it found more clear like
.^'«r.
Crcu.'r Mufaum.

caufc fuch a forenefs and tendcmcfs in
.a horfc'b foot, that he is unable to let it
to the ground,

French.]

He fet before him fpread

Stvift.

\^Fondeur, French.]
A carter; one who
forms figures by calling melted matter into
moulds.

;

f [fom, Latin; fn.

ia/ne.

A table of celedial food divine,

Kor can the (kilful herald trace
.4.

In.

FO'UNTAIN. J

Adjifon'i Fritbolder.

The foMidei of thy ancient race.

Judas I wilh'd, the lots were call on yi>«r;

VVhen they were out of reach they turned and
eroded the ocean to Spain, having \oftfurfcore of
their diips, and the greater part of their men.
Bacon's IVar^vitb Spain.
The Chiots were firft a free people, being a
commonwealth, maintaining a navy of four/cote
(hips.
Sandyt.
The Litui^y had, by the practice of near fourfeore years, obtained great veneration from all fobet
Protedants.
Clarendon.

And the rude notions of pedantic fchools

The dead infpir'd with vital breath again,

FOUR. adj. [peopep. Saxon.] Twice two.

A woman that founds, builds, eftablilhes,

1.

Slafpheme the itcrti founder of our rules.
Rofcommon.
When Jove, who faw from high, with jull difdain,

Th* unhappyyiwffi/rr of the godlike art.

fmoothly and moderately as any of the northern
nations, who foupe their words out of the throat
Camden,
with fat and full fpirits.

Now beat the hoof with Nelfus on the plain. DryJ,\
Foursco're. adj. [four andfore.]
1. Four times twenty
eighty.

or beginning.
.

A word out of ufe.

impetuofity.

She prays the gods to take the foundling's part.
To teach his hands fome beneficial art.
Gay.
Fo'uNDRESs. n.f. [from founder.]

zmaxfkXtfounder of this lecture in his treatife of the
air.
Beniley.

One from whom any thing has its original

pafs xht foundling by, a race unknown.

At doors expos'd, whom matrons make their own,

one who prefides at the eredlion of a city.
Of famous cities we t\\t founders know

3.

Sidney.

lingt, to be trained up by grief and forrow.

A builder; one who raifes an edifice;

Cbapmetn.

ToFouPE. "K. a. To drive with, fuddea

A FOURBE.

child expofed to chance; a child found
without any parent or owner.

Svfiftt

Full

utmod hade,
All fell upon ihe high-hair'd oaks.

Myfclf the fifth.

Fo'uNDLlNC. n.f. [from/oundoffnd.]

6. F.ftablilhment; fettlement.
I.

Aliltor,

We pronounce, by the confeflSon offtrangers. ai

In this point

He had an opportunity of going to fcboot on a
Jcuitdation,

For barren itittt fountainleft and dry.

But when the foumful Ida's top they fcal'd with

To fink to the bottom.

1.

^

A revenue fettled and eftablifhed for any

5.

So large

The profpe£t was, that here and there waa room

of fprings.

the bottom.]

rife.

Throughout the world, even from the fix^ foundation thereof, all men have either been taken as
lords or lawful king* in their own houfes.
Hooker.

Fo'uNTAINLBSl. adj. [from foUMtaiH.]
Having no fountain; wanting a fprinj;.

reFo'uNDER. <v. n. [itom fond, French, Fo'uNTFULL. adj. [fount inA full.]

dered it lo ; and there is a fcundalion iu nature for
11.
Locke.

4. Original;

F O U

with little ceremony load as heavy as they picafe,
drive them through the hardell and deepeft roads,
without danger of^^uiti^mnj^ or breaking their backs,
and will be aire to find them neither refty nor vicious.

Ne'er lo thefc chambers where the mighty reft,
Since their fnunJaiiox, came a nobler guelt. TicktI.
3.

F O U
Men of difcr«tion, whom people in power may

5.

Original ;

firft principle ; firft caufe.
Almighty Cod, \.\\i fountain of all goodnefs.

Common Prayer.

You may reduce many ihoufand bodies to thefc
few general figures, as unto their principal heads and
fountains.
Peacham

This one

city

may well

be reckoned not only
.the feat of trade and commerce, not only the
fountain ot habits and falhions, and good breeding, but
of morally good or bad owuncts to all England.
Sjiratl'iStrmont.

Shakefpeare.

Fourte'enth. a(^'. [iraxa fourteen.]

The

ordinal of fourteen; the fourth after the
tenth.
1 have not found any that fee the
ninth day,
few before the twelfth, and the eyes of fome not
open hef.)rc ilicyiwi ; enib d ly. Brown's yulgar £> r.

Fourth, ad/. Jfror.i /»«».]

The ordinal

of four ; the firft after the third.

A third like the former: filthy hags!
Why do you (hew me this? A fourth? dart eye!
is

What

!

will the line dretch out to th' crack of doom ?

Shakefpeare.

Vo'vKTHi.y. ad-v. [hom fouriL]

In the

fourth place.
Fourthly, plants have their feed and feminal parts
uppcrmoft, and living creatures have them lowcrmoft.

Bacon's Natural Hijlory.

Fou»-

FOX
FouRWHEELED.

qualities of a fox;

Than thou haftfpnkeii words.

is

ufed colleftively: as, we dined upon

The bealh, ihe filhet, and the v,\nf;cif<rwls.
Are their males fubj,r£ls, and ai theircortrouls. Shak.
Lucullus entertained I'orapey iu a magriiBccnt
houfe : Pompey faid, this is a marvellous houfe for
the Summer; but methinks very cold for Winter.
Lucullus anfwercd, do you not think me as wife as
i\nn fowh, to change my habitation in the Winter
fcafon ?
Baccn'i Apofhihrgmj.
This mighty breath
InftruSs theyiWi of heaven.

Te Fowl.

n.

-v.

fet ifoxiraf f
;

psrfeft piece.

Da-

keep Its colour.

The fragments, fcraps, the bits and greafy reliques
Of her o'er eaten faith, are bound to Diomede.
•
Sbakrfptare.
Neither the motion of the moon, whereby

'T;s neceffary that the counliyman be provided

Pliny put a round number near the truth,
rather
than ifraition.
Atbutbnot on Coins.

with a ffxi/y'jjlingpiice.

Fox. »./. [jrox, saxon

Martimtr.
;

<vot, vo/ch, Dutch.]

his

Shaktfpcare.

I.

Where he fhou'd find you lion*, finds you hares;
Wherey<)jr«, grefe.

Sbake/p. Macirlh.

mote aablc and fi«ed parts of nature, or
fiingemciit ol the laws thereof.

Thefe retreats are more like the d:ns of robbers,
or holes of/oxci, than the fortrelTcs of fair warrours.

Lxif.

1.

By way of reproach, applied to a knave
or cunning fellow.
[/ex and

ea/e.]

Breach; reparation of continuous parts.
That may do it wiilioui a-iy great /rai9»(-e of the

'I

She, (lie is gone ; Ihe's gone:

He knows it too too much that thinks it nought.

FRA'GOR. n.f. [Latin.] A noife; a crack:
Purfu'd by h\Aiamfragors, as before
The Hames defcend, they in their breaches roar.

Sandys.

Fr a'gr A NC E. 1 n. f {fagrantia, Latin.]
Fra'grancy. / Sweetnefsoffmell; pleafing fcent; grateful odour.

the in-

Eve feparate he I'pies,
VeiI'd in a cloud offragranc; where

Hale.

he feparation of the continuity of
a

""," 'Py'd1

of foreign countries kept alive by artificial
heats.

Who dead men raifes

for a fox, than be deftroyed by taking a live foj for

Fo'xcHASF.

ti.

f.

Fraaurei well cur'd,

VEJIrargt.

,

{fox and

n. /.

[/ox- and

To break a bone.

A kind

of difeafe in which the hair (beds.
Fo'XriSH. ». /. [I'lilfecula fi/cit.] A firtl.

Fo'xoLovES. n.f. [digitalii,]

The leg was dreiTcd, and
united together.

{f-agrans,

will

maintain

Denbam

be eafily broken, when a green
a flrong reliftance ; and yet in
ti.ere is lefs rcll

drier and u^attfragile.

than in what ;,
Clanvillt.

Weak; uncertain; eafily de.lroyed.

Latitt.]

Fr.igrani the fertile earth
After foft Ihow'i-s; and f*eet the coming

Upon her head the various wreath

the moill fubftance

s.

adj.

fweet of fmell.

To eafe them of their griefs.

one

Sf.eial„r.

;

Of grateful evening mild.
The nymph vouchf.;f'd to place

Adryftick will

L'E/lmKa

Odorous

Brittle; eafily fnapped or broken.

Bacon.

John Wildfire, fixbunter, broke hit necic ovef
a

FRA'GRANT.

"*

When fubilc win haw fpun their threads too tine,
'1 IS weak nnd/ragilr, like Arachi.e'sline.

and then out

:

/r^_f.///,

In life ••uncertain voj.ge.
Sl.ak,fp. Timon.
1 he Italk of ,vy is tough, and M^fragih.

bravery in hunting foxes.
A term of
reproach ufed of country gentlemen.

toxiHif.u.f [ffom/^;r.] The dttraftcr or

;

Their pangs of love, and other incident throes.
Thai nn\itt\fragile vcffel doth fullain

A

man whofe chief ambition is to (hew his

their way,

dream

To cool one cup fuflSc'd ihe goblet crown
'd,
Breath'd aromatick/ra^ra7/i-/Vj around.
Pope's OJ

m/eman', Surgery.

Latin.]

M.ller.

Thefoxbunier, v«ent

the fraaured bones

FRA'GILE. a<iy. {fragile, French
I.

A plant.

FoXHUNTER. »./. [fax zni. himler.]

•

To Fra'cture. v. a. [from the noun.j
Popf.

rvil.]

Garth.
c
L
L
buch
was the wine ; to quench whofe fervent
ftcam
Scarce iv/enty meafures from the living

Surgery

See the fame man, in vigour, in the gout;
A!one, in company ; in place or out
Early at bulinefs, and at hazard late;

Mad at afoxcbafc, wife at a debate.

.,,,.,

AJdiftt's Speaator.
Not lovelier feem'd, Narcidus to the eye
j
Nor, when a flower could boalt motefragrancy. -

make us more ftrong.

Fraaurei of the fcull are dangerous, not in
confecjueuce ol the injury done to the
cranium iifcif
but a; the brain becomes afftfted. Sbayp'i

The

chaje.'l

purfuit of the fox with hounds.

(he flood

Milton's Paradife Lcjl

am more pleas'd to furvey my rows of col-

wprts and cabbages fpringing up in
their full fra.
grancy and verdure, than to fee the
tender plant*

Full of his praifcs.

a cafe.

Not ufed.

a crafh.

And tune tugciher in a v/ell-fet fong.

One had belter be laughed at for taking Afoxcafe

when thou know'ft

this,

But thou wilt fin and giief deftroy,
That fo tbe broken bones may joy,

A fox's

A 'word not

What/rai;«f«/jry nibbilli this world is.
Thou know'lt, and that it is not worth a thought;

bone in living bodies.

Ikin.

[from fragment.]

elegant, not in ufe.

Cockrr', Arilhmrlick.

rr-hl^', T „ .,
tR.VCTURE.
n.f. [fraaura. Latin.]

adj.

Compofed of fragments.

and decreafing iiumbcTS, commonly called
abfolule
or whole numbers, and negative or
fraaional
1>

P<^e's Odyjfey.

,

fun,

Belonging to a broken number; comprifing
a broken number.
We make a cypher the medium between increafing

ftiarp ears,

He that Irufts to you.

food.-

„
Fragmentary,

Fra ctional. adj. [from fraaion.]

A wild animal of the canine kind, with
and a bufhy tail, remarkable
cunning, living in holes, and
preying upon fowls or fmall animals.
The/sx barks not when he would Ileal the lamb.

Ne-wtoi's Opiicks.
Some on painted wood
Transfix'd i\m: fragments, lome prejnr'd the

.

are computed, nor the

I

*''-''"«="«•

broken into/ra?-

mtKU of the fame thicknefs wi:h the plate,
I fte
no rcafon why every thread or fragment
Ihould not

arts of her love.

months
whereby years are accounted, confiftcth of whole numbers, but admits
of
fraBhns and broken parts. Brorvn'j Vulgar Errouis.

Heals the fo«.

a thin or plated body, which,
being of an even
thicknefs, appears all over of one
uniform colour,
Ihould be (lit into threads, or

A broken part of an integral.
The/afl/jwii of her faith,

improvement.
flails on the MiirJ.

U,

When frofla have whiten'd ail the naked groves. Pope.
Fo'w LI N G p r c E. »./. \^f<rMl and /;>«.] A
gun for birds.

Ft)'xEyii..

Vidcis, has (liewn us this way to

The acl of breaking; the ftate of being

2.

Philift.
Withflaught'ringguns th'unweary'd fowlerrovcs.

/.

Nowgrafps a floating/nj^mwr in his hand. DryJerr.
Cowley, in his untinilhed fragment of
the

earth hath been broke, and
(he parts of it diflocated ; feveral parcels of
nature
retam rtill the evident marks oifraShn and ruin.

glades,
OfFcnfivc to the birds.

It.

He who late a fceptre did command,

Shakefp. Timon.

broken.
The furface of the

Treads (he crimp earth, ranging through fields and

Fo'xcASE.

r.

liurnil't tbecry of tbe Earth.

Thifc-uiier, warn'd

2.

FRA'GMENT. „. {fragmemum. Latin.]
A part broken from the whole; an im-

Latin.]

By thofe good omens, with fwift early fteps

for

All could not be right, in fuch a
flate, in thi»
lower age oSfragility.
IVotton

FRA'CTION. n. /. [fraaion, Fr. fraah,

A fportfman

Irailty ; liaBlenefs to fault.

3.

His days and times are pall,
And my reliance on his fraSeJ dates

To

to be

eafinefs

Fear the uncertainly of mun'sfragili/y,
the common chance of war, the violence of lortuiie. Knolles.

break; to violate; to infringe.
Found
perhaps only in the following paflage.

1.

uncertainty;

deftroyed.

^

Has fmit my credit.

Bacon's Nat. Hifi.

.

VVeaknefs;

allegiance.

He Eafterland fubducd, and Denmark won.
And of them both did/y and tribute raife. F.
To Fract. v. a. [fraaus, Latin.] To

who purfnes birds.

1.

,

2.

An obfolete word.

kill birds for food or game.

Fo'wLER. »./. [from/cW.]

To make an induration with toughnefs, and left
fiagiliy, decoa bodies io water for two or three days.

Tader.

FoY. « /. }//, French.] Faith

Brittlenefs; eafinefs to be broken.

1.

fnare to catch foxes.
Anfwer a queftion, at what hour of the night to

thomfon's Spring.

[from the noun.]

Fragi'lity. n.f. {i\Qm fragile.]

Sbaltefp. Coriolanu:.

Fe'xTAiL. n./,[aJo/)ecurus.] A plant.
Fo'xTRAP, «./.Y/o.vand/r«/.] A gin or

It

colloquially ufed of edible birds, but
in books of all the feathered tribes. FotjJ

f

Long in preparing, foon to nothing brouglir,
Befoie mine eyes thou'ftfet. Millon's Paradlfe
Keg.

Had'ft thoa/oxjhip.

FOWL.
is

Much oftenfation, vain of &t(U\y arms.
And agile arms, much inftrument of war,

To banilh hira that ftruck more blows for Rome,

ufed.
Sfiutra for the world, and worldlings bafe. Shak.
»./. [pujel, puhl, Saxon ; -vogel,

A winged animal; a bird.

cunning; mifchievous

art.

The matry load could bear, and roll along.
Pope,
Fo'uTRA. ». /. [from /cr./rf, French.] A
fig; a feoff: a word of contempt.
Not

Dutch.]

FRA

F R A

[four and wheel.]
Running upon twice two wheels.
Scarce tweniv/iaru/i«/V -ars, comparand ftrong,
adj.

^

on
Alillcn,

:

'i'he flow'rs, lefs blooming than
her face;
Their fcent \ek fragrant than her breath.

Fra'crantly. adv.
With fweet fcent.

[from

Prior.

Jfrasra>tl.\
s
S

As the hops begin to change colour, and
fmclI
Jragranity, you may conclude tliem ripe.

Mortinir^

Frail, n.f
J.

A balket made of rudics.

A rudi for weaving bafkcts.
FRAIL, adj. {fragilis, Latin.]
z.

b Weak;,

Weak;

I.

eafily decaying; fubjedl to ca-

Daviei.
As force, without fevers within can kill.
When with care we have raifed an imaginary
treafurc of hippincfs, we find, at laft, that the ma-

in frail and pcri(hiiig, and

llruiSure

the foundation

itfelf is laid in

Rogers.

the fand.

Urge him with truth ta frame his fure replies.
Pope.
And fure he will, for wifdom never lies.
How many excellent reafonings tn framed in the
of
length
a
ftudy
in
and
mind of a man of wifdom

fedudlion.

The truly virtuous
is told

them of

do amifs, then

eafily credit evil that

do not

their neighbours; for if others may
may thefe alfo fpeak anfifs : man is

fraily and prooe to evil, and therefore may focn fail
7aylor^s Guit/e to Devotion.
in words,

Fra'ilmen. *./. [from/ra;7.] Weaknefs;

>^'""-

years.

To contrive

7.

all

Fra'ilty. n./. [from frail.]
1, Weaknefs of refolution; inftability of
mind; infirmity.
Though Page be a fecure fool, and ftands fo firmly
«n his viik'tj'railiy, yet I cannot put off my opinion

2, J ault, proceeding from weaknefs; fins of
infirmity : in this fenfc it has a plural.
Love did his reafon blind,
And love's the noblcll/ra/Ay of the mind. Dryd.

Dry den.
FRJISE. n. j. [French, the caul of an
animal.]
A pancake with bacon in it.

lo FRAME, tj. a.

To form or fabricate by orderly confiru£\ion and union of various pares.

The double gates he findeth locked fad;
The one iiwframed oi burniOi'd ivory,
The other all with filver overcalt.

together.

Mortimer.

To make; to compofe.
Thereof did ttxhf frame.

Liberal; generous; not niggardly.

I.

The moiller forts of trees yield little mofs, for
the reafon of the frank putting up of the fap into
Bacon.
the boughs.
They were left deftitute cither by narrow provifion, or by i\it\rfrank hearts and their open hands<
Spratt'jSermoni.
and their charity towards others,
'lis the ordinary pni<5lice of the world to be
L'Eflr.
frank of civilities that coll them nothing.

Order; regularity; adjufted /eries or dif-

Open; ingenuous; fincere; not referved.
Without conditions without payment.
;

Might not be found » franker franioo.

A place to feed hogs in ; a fty
from liberality of food.

1
is Itkt a German clock,
a repairing, ever out oiframe.

And never going aright.

4.

2.

refolve

to

change the whole

frame of the government in ftate as well as church.

Sbakefp.

Haft not the foft way ; but thou vf'^t frame
Thyfelf forfooth hereafter theirs. Sbak. Coriolanui.
I have been a truant to the law;

A bear's a favagc bead,

former;

Sbafrf.

To feed high; to fat; to cram.

;

[From the adjeftive.]

To exempt let-

Hudihras.

pjiemman,
contriver;

My l/>rd Orrery writes to you to-morrow
you

lee

1

fend

this under his cover, or

franked \i'] \\\m.

if aflions

were pre-

Hammond.

determined.

the (irft ori^inaiyru/itrr e: thole medaif. Aibuihnot.
I

;

and

at leaft

S-wift,

J

Ciieties fcnt gratis d»wn, and frank'd,

For which thy patron's weekly tii.ink'd.

Oiould be improper,

Sbak.

J.v«/.«

ters from portage.

The forger of his own fate, the framer of his
fortune,

Hannur.

and Ainfivorth

There was want of accuratenefs in experiments in

I

2.

3.

Whelp'd without form, until the dam
Has lick'd it into (hape ^niframe.

Maker;

my

A French coin.
To fliut up iu a frank or fty.

1

Mechanical conftruftion.

n.f. [from //-amf

Sbakff. Henry \\,

In the fty of this moft bloody boar.
My fon George Stanly \ifrank'd up in hold.

7. Shape; form; proportion.

Thou art their foldler, and, being bred in broils.

3.

John the Ballard,

Saxon.]
fchemer.

•

A letter which pays no portage.

To Frank. 11, a. [from the noun.]

Contrivance; projcftion.
Whofe Ipirits toil in frame of villainies.

6.

fo called

You'll have immediately, by it\tsi\ franks,
Pope to S-wift,
epidle to Lord Cobliam,

Siuift.

Scheme; order.
Another party did

:

Where fups he i Doth the old boar feed in the
o\i frank?

Shakefpeare.

Vour Heady foul preferves \\e\- frame ;
In good and evil times the fame.

Spenfer.

Frank, n.f. [from the adjeftive.]

A woman, that

Sfenfer.

precept.

never yit cirtM frame my will to it,
And ther«foie/r«»ie ibt lavi unto roy willt

Who

Thou had it won ; for it is of frank gift,
And he will care for all the reft to Ihift. Huhberd.
4. Noi^ reftrained; licentious. Not in ufe.

A

3.

her fide did fit the bold Sanfloy,

Dryd.

To form any rule or method by ftudy or Fra'mer.

5.

Firft, by

Fit mate tor fuch a mincing minion.
in her loofcnefs took exceeding joy

3.

globe of glafs, about eight or ten inches in
diameter, being put into z frame where it may be
fwiftly turned round its axis, will, in turning, ihine,
where it rubs againft the palm of one's hand. Neivton.

Fight valiantly to-day

Let us not decieve ourfclves by pretending to this
excellent knowledge of Chrid Jcfus our Lord, if
we do no\ frame our lives according to it. lillolfon.

a boon

;

z.

His pidlure fcarcely would deferve zframi.

And yet I do tnee wrong to mind thee of it

To regulate; to adjuft.

A paramour

companion.

Boyle.

mifchances.

5.

For thou At\fram''d of the firm truth of valour. Sbak,

very
Bayle,

itfelf

Put ba:h the tube and the veflel it leaned on
wooitnframe, to keep them from

Clarendon.

Then cluifing out few words mod horrible.

4.

the derivation.]

Tllloifan.

into a convenient

Abbot.

figlit.

if wrought

P"ra'nion. n.f. [Of this word I know not

fomething clfe.

and to do ncceflaries to their convenient ufe, than to

3.

brittle ; eafily broken.
Though it feems the foUdeft wood,
before it be well feafoned, it will (hew
frangiile,

Any thing made fo as to inclofe or admit

Sfenfer.

They rat"her cut down their timber to frame it,

Hew timber, (aw it, frame it, and fet

Fra'ngible. adj. [fratiga, Latin.] Fragile;

FRANK,

and all along

author.

2.

Still

it

I lofe no honour

In fceking to augment it; but dill keep
My \ioiQm francbis'd, and allegiance clear, Sbaief,

pofition.

To fit to one another.

2.

free.

of the world,

Law.

Hither in Summer-evenings you repair.
To tafte xhefraifcbeur of the purer air.

;

Diyden.
and an
We fee this vaft frame
innumerable multitude of creatures in it; all which
we, who believe a God, attribute to him as the

might be in fome

A word fooliftily innovated by

[from the noun.]

Might not be found a fraiiker_/iaH/o«, Fairy Slueen.
adj. [franc, I-rench.]

Tough iron plates were clench'd to make it ftrong.

Dryitn.

\.

»./. [from the verb.]
any thing conftru died of va;

The labour of a god
Pope.

degree excufable ; but the complaint is, they are like
heathens in all the main and chief articles of their

coplnefs.

-v. a,

lo enfranchife; to make free; to keep

ries came.

That Chriftians are now not only like other men

lives.

To Franchi'se.

Which, hew'd by Mars himfelf, from Indian quar-

flames refign,

FRAI'SCHEUR. n.f. [French.] Frelhnefs;

the corporations, that they (hall not be travelled forth
of their ovit\fra«chifcs. Spenfcr*s State of Ireland,

The gate was adamant ; mxmXframc,

And here, ev'n then, (hall my cold dud remain;

infirmities,

of jurifdiftion.
There are other privileges granted unto moft of

3. Diftrift; extent

Sbak. Coriolamn.

1

Kind wils will tliole light faults excufe;

and

to fcheme out.

Bacon,
magnificence.
Thefe are thy glorious works, parent of good
Milton.
Almighty thine this univerfal/ivjMf.
Divine Cecilia came,
Dryden.
Invcntrcfs of the ixi.\frame.

Thofe are the commonfrailtits of the mufe. Dryd,

in their frailties

;

rious parts or members.
If the/fame of the heavenly arch (hould diflblve
itfelf, if celeftial fpheres (hould forget their wonted
motions, and by irregular volubility, turn tliemfelves
Hooker.
any way, as it might happen.
Caftles made of trees upon frames of timber,
matters
of
anciently
with turrets and arches, were

Mi/ton.
God knows tmtfrailty, pities our weaknefs, and
Locke.
able
to
do.
than
we
are
no
more
requires of us

And wail, 'till 'tis no fin to mix with thine.

Thtframpul man could not be pacified, backet,
\franchife, French.]
1. Exemption from any onerous duty.
2. Privilege; immunity ; right granted.
They granted them markets, and other francbifes, and ere^ed corporate towns among them.

FRA'NCHISE. ft.f

A fabricic

frailty :

with

life

Shaieffeart.

Da'vies on Ireland*

Frame.

Ere I to thee, thou to thyfelf wall cruel.

Alas, the fweet woman leads an ill

(he leads a vtry frampold

His gracious edifl the time franc hife yields
To all the wild incrcafe of woods and fields. Dryden,

as, Xo frame a ftory or lie.
Aftronomers, to folve the phienomena, framed
Bacon.
to their conceit ecccntricks and epicycles.

1

!

him.

To invent; to fabricate, in a bad fenfe:

9.

Nor (hould'ft thou have trailed that to woman's

Death, only death, can break the lalling chain

Her hufband

'ClarcHdon.

I'll/fjmf convenient peace.

Sbatrjptare.

fo eafily.

croflgrained.
life-witli him:

Unpardonable the prefumption and infolence in

To fettle

8.

^

all its

to plan.

contriving uni framing this letter was.

the fra'/nr^ei and

ancerlainties of this fublunary world fo lotteri'ig and
Aorris.
unftable as the virtue of a coward.

Here all mfrailties,

;

Though I cannot make true wars,

inftability.
There is nothing among

original.]

Granville.

Weak of refolution; liable to .crrour or

t.

I know not its
Pecvifh; boifterous; rugged;

Dr. Hacket, frampul.

The mott abftrufe ideas are onljf Tuch as the underttanding/ramw to itfelf, bv joining together ideas
that it had either from obje& of fenfe or from its
Locke.
own operations about them.
full of that flame his tender fceres lie warms,
Aaiframei liisgoddcfs by your matchleft charms.

know my body's of io frail a kind.

terials of the

Fra'mtold. »./. [This word is written by

To form and digeft by thought.

6.

fualties; eafily deftroyed.
I

F R A

F R A

F R A

Pope,

Frankalmoi'gne. n.f. The fame whicji
we in Latin call libera tleemofyna, or fr^g
alms in Englifh; whence that tenure jj
commonly known among our Engl'{h
lawy.

I

F R A

F R A

lawyers by the name of a tenure in frank
auvtcue, ox frankalmoigne , which, according to Britcu, is a (enure by divine fer-

9^ franc,
j>'ffor.'\

Fra'nkincense. n.f. [frank unA.

{o called perhaps from its liberal diftribu-

of age, religious perfons, clerks, knights,
and their eldeft fons excepted, (hould find

cuftomary for a certain number of neighbours to be bound for one another, to
fee each man of their pledge forthcoming
at all times, or to ahfwer the tranfgreffion of any one abfenting himfelf.
This

place wViSncz frankincenft is brought, and as to the
tree which produces ir.
Hill.

Take unto thee fweet fpiixs, with faitfraxiinI

was

Exodut.

fevfc.

Srerev^o^d on La/tguagfi

Black ebon only will in India grow.

Cedar kA frankincenjr^ an od'rous pile.

Flam 'don the hearth, and wide pcrfum'd the ifle.
;

It fi^nifies originally a

little gentleman,

and is not improperly
Englilhed a gentleman fervant. Not in
ufe.

nelick,

I'aitj Soften.

I.

Liberally; freely; kindly; readily.
Oh, were it but my life,
I'd throw it down for your deliverance,
As frankly as a pin.
Shakrff. Mtaf.for Mtaf,
your heart.

Were hid agaiatt me, now forgive mcfrankly.

The lords mounted their fervantsupoo their own
hones J and they, with the voluniiers, vho frankly
amounted to a body of two hunClarendon.

Clarcndin.

Fra'nkmss, n.f. [horn frank.]
Plainnefs of fpeechj opcnnefs; ingenuoufnefs.
When the Conde duke had fome ecIaircilTemcnt
i.Se

duke, in which he m.ide

all

3.

None need

<i\it. frauds of fly Ulyfles fear.
If fucccfii a lover's toil attends.

cherous ;

artful ;

deceitful

trickifti ;

fubtle.

The welfare of us all
Hangs on the cutting Ihort that/raKa7"a/man.
Shake/p. Henry VI,
He, full of fraudful arts,
_

This well-invented tale for truth imparts.

Dryden,

Fra'udfullv. ad-v. [from fraudfil:\ Deceitfully ;

oufly;

artfully ;

fubtilly ;

treacher-

by ftratagem.

Fra'udulency, J

Deceitfulnefs ; trickifhncfs ; pronenefs to artifice.
We admire the Providence of God in the con-

tinuance of Scripture, notwithftanding the endeavours of infidels to abolilli, and the frauduUnce of
hcteticks always to deprave the fame.
Hooker.

Fra'udulent. adj. [fraudtiliux, French;
frauduUntus, Latin.]
1.

Sliakefi,.

French;

faternm, Latin.] Brotherly pertaining
to brothers; becoming brothers.
;

Will arrogate dominion unJeferv'd,

;

With fair e(juality,/ra/rr»a/ltate.

Clarendon.

nude love to a woman of fenfc, and always
treated her as fuch during the whole time of courtIhip: his natural temper and gojd breeding

Over his brethren.
Milian'i Paradife Lofi.
The admonitions, yKirovi.j/ or paternal, of hi»
fellow Cliriftians, or of the governors of the church,

him from doing any thing difjgreeable, as his
fincerity and/rfl»*».yi of behaviour made him
convcrfe with her betora marriage in the fame

then more publick rcprehenftons ; and upon their
unfuccefsfulnefs, the cenfures of the church, until he
reform and return.
Hammond.

hin-

dered

maimer
AdJfon'i Guardian.

Plead it to her.

With all the flrength and heats of eloquence

2. Liberality; bounteoufnefs.

Fraitrnal love and friendrtiip can infpirc.

Freedom from rcferve.
deliverfd

with x\\tfanknrfi of a friend's
tongue, word by won), what Kalcndar
had told him

Sidnry

a brotherly manner.
n. f.
fraternitns, Latin.

an

op-nnefs and /ra»*»,/, of dealing, and
a name of
xettamly and veracity.

g^„„

fRAKKPLHDCE. n.f. [framlfrgium, Latin;

Addifun,

Frate'rn-aily.o/i/. \homfraternal."[ In

Frati'r.sitv.
I .

z.

trickilh;

fubtic ;

de-

He with ferpent tongue

2.

Performed by

artifice; deceitful; trea-

cherous.

Now thou haft aveng'd
Supplanted Adam,
And frutlrated the coneiueHfraudulent.

Milton.

Fra'udulently. adv. [horn fraudnlenl

.'\

By fraud; by deceit; by artifice; deceitfully.

how franlickly I fcjuare my talk. Siak.
Fra'ntick.vess. n. f. [from framici.]
Madnefs ; fury of paffion ; diftraftion.

Tom

of artifice;

W\^ fraudulent ten\ptation thus began.
Milton.
She mix'd the potion, fraudulent of foul;
The potion mantled in the golden bowl. Pope's OJ.

lie

Fie, fie,

FRATE'RNAL. ndf. \fraterncl.

Full

ceitful.

YtA'vTiCKLY. ad-v. [fcomfanikk.] Mad-

the proicila-

The .bleft men thjt ever were, have had all

^

Milton.
Dryden.

Who afks if force otfraud obtain'd his ends. Pope.
Fra'udful. adj. [fraud at\A full.] Trea-

The lover, framlci.
Sees Melen's beauty in a brow of Egypt.

friendrtiip with hiro.

toliching the ftr.inje ftory.

What force effefled not.

Simply mad.

One Ihall arifc
Of proud ambitious heart who, not content

He

Our better part remains

She tears her hair, zni,fraHliek in her griefs.
Calls out on Lucia.
Addifon'i Can.

no

3.

Lat. ^jshitiko?.]

tions of his fincere affeiflion, the other received his
proteftations with all contempt; and declared, with
J very mmKtS»rf franknrjs, thai he would have

he intended to do aftcnvaidi.

fAtilty;

To work in clofe dcfign, \>y fraud at guile.

ly; diftratiledly ; outrageoufly.

which were contrived at court.

with

D«:eitj cheat; trick; artifice;
ftratagem.

To .''uch height theiryra«//<-l pafiion grows,

Without refcrve.
He mend itvffrankly into thofe new defigns,

1.

phrcnetkus,

That what both love, both haiard to deftroy. DiyJ.

Sftdat^r.

Without contlraint.

dred and hfij horfe.

French;

The murder of a

FRAUD. »./. [/raar, Latin ;/ratfdV, Fr.]

Eftceming in iht frantiek error of their minds,
the grcatell madncfs in the world to be wifdom, and
the higheft wil'Jom foolillineG.
Hooker.

them both.
LuktsW. i^i.
By the roiighnefs of the emh, the Gip cannot get
up to fpread {o frankly as it Ihould do.
Bacon.
I value my garden more for being full of blackbirds than cherries, and yzrj frankly give them fruit

themfelvcs,

South' s Sermons.

n.f [fralricide,

fratricidium, Latin.]
brother.

Mad; deprived of underftanding by vio-

Tranfported by violence of pafiion ; outrageous ; turbulent.

z.

Sbakiff. Henry VI H.
When they had nothing to pay, \w:frankly forgave

lilted

fpeak of their ownfraterniiy.

Fra'triciue.

circuit

lent madncfs ; outragcoufly and turbulently mad.
Far off, he wonders what makes them lb glad;
Of Bacillus' merry fruit they did invent.
Or Cyber»/ra*//r* rites have made them mad.
fairy Siueen.

F«*'nkly. adv. [from /ra»i.]

for their fonjs.

L'EJlrange.

With what terms of refpeft knaves and fots will

FRA'NTICK. adj. [corrupted from/A;v- Fra'udulence. I n.f. [fraudulentia,'L2it ]

A fpacious court they fee.
Both plain and pkafant to be walked in.
Where them does meet iftanktin Uit and free.

It erer any malice in

and the

humour of thofe we have to d*

Men of the fame clafs or charader.

3.

called dccenna,

tually bound, was called a'?««»;>)-.
This
cultom was fo ftriftly obferved, that the
fheriffs, in ever)- county did from time
to time take the oaths of young ones as
they grew to the age of fourteen years, and
fee that they combined in one decennary
or other; this branch of the (heriff's authority was called 'vifus franciplegii, view
of frankpledge.
Cotvel.

Dryden't VirgU.

a bailiff of land.

was

becaufe it
commonly confided of ten houfeholds;
and every particular perfon, thus mu-

And od^xvfM Jrartkinceti/e on the Sdb(ran bough.

TuMi'KLts. n.f. [from/<-(7«i.] A fteward

called frankpledge,

thereof

find in Diofcorides record a^frank'mctttft gotten

in India.

a drift regard to the

withal.

fecurity for his fidelity to the king, or
elfe be kept in prifon : whence it became

•mong the facred rites and facrifices, as it continues
to be in many parts. We arc ftill uncertain as to the

3.

fraternities, and all manner of civil contrafls, to have

that every freeborn man at fourteen years

Frankincenfe is a dry relinous fubltance in pieces
or drops, of a pale yellowifti white colour; a ftrong
fmell, but not difagreeable, and a bitter, acrid, and
refinous tafte.
It is rery inllammable.
The ear
lidl hiftories inform us, \.\\M. frankincenjt was ufei

e.

A pledge or furety for freemen.

incen/e;

tion of odour.j

I.

'Tis a neceffary rule in alliances, focieties, anJ

J-

For the ancient cuftom of England, for
the prefervation of the publick peace, was,

jlyliffe't Parergon.

vice.

F R A

^ pldg',

e. fiJei

e. liher

\.

{fratemhe, French;

'I'he ftatc or quality of a brother.

Body of men united; corporation; fociety; aflbciationj brotherhood.

that by faft, word, or (ign, ekher fraududoes hurt to his neighbour, is

lently or violently,

bound to make rellitution.

Taylor.

FRAUGHT, particip. paff, [(tomfraight,
now written y)-«>/i>/.]
Laden; charged.

1,

In the narrow feas that part

The French and Englilh, there mifcatried
A vclTel of our country, ncMyfraught.
Shakefp.
With joy
And \\i\a%'.fraught, to hell he now reliirn'd.
Milton's Par.

And now

approach'd

their fleet

I.ofi.

from India,

fraught

With all the riches of the rifingftin.

And precious fand from foutheru climates brought.
Dryden.
2. Filled; ftored;

thronged.

The Scripture \% fraught even with laws of nature.
Hooker.

By this fad \jt\i, fraught with anguifh fere.
Arrived, where they in earth their blood had fpilt.
Spenfer.
I

am iofiaught with curious bufinefs, that I leavs

outcciemony.
Shakrfp. Jf'inter's Tale.
Whofoevcr h.ith his mind fraught with many
though*, hit wits and undcr.landing do clarify and
break up in the communicating and difcourfing with
another.
Baton.
I

L

Hell

woman wat the mart freaklfh oi the two; for (he

AbdalUh and Belfon were fo fraught with kU

Fre'akishly. dfl'i;. [from_/rf<j>t/}^.] Capri-

kinds of knowledge, and poflVffed wiih a fo coplhint
paflion for each other, th»l their folitude never by
AiHiJon.
heavy on them.

humourfomely.
Fre'akisRness. k./. [fromyr^ai^.l Ca-,
pricioufnefs ; humourfomenefs ; wnimfi-

was mil the fame uoealy fop.

7« Fream. f. «. [fremore,\j3!i\n; fremir,
French.]
I'o growl or grunt as a boar.

Yield up, oh Iove,'lhy crawn indparttd thrent
Tfi tyrannous hale fivcll, bofom, with ihy Jratghl ;
Sbakf/p. Othtih.
far 'tis of afpiclvs' toiiguet.
The b.irk that all our blcllings brought,
Charg'd with thyfelf and James, a doubl/ royal
DryAen.
fraught.
!

y* Fraught, f. a,

To loBcl

\jtQxfrdght,

Ruddy his lips, and fie(h and fair his hue ;
Some fprinkIedyi^r^/« on his face were fcen.
Whofe du(k fet off the whitenefs of the (kin. Dryd.
2. Any fraall fpot or difcoloration.
The cowllips tall her penfioncis be ;

f

».

cargo.

;

[from fraught.^
A bad word.
/.

In tba[e freck/ft live their favours.

Siahfp. ComeJy of Ei r.
n.f. \fffrqyer, to fright, French.]

A battle

Fre'ckled.

To fright

Fre'ckly.

Fred.

[irom freckle.']

our forefathers
deric is

called

their

Gibfon's Camden.

FREE. adj. [pieah, Saxon

ijry, Dutch.]
;
not a vaffal ; not enflaved ;
not a prifoner ; not dependent.

At liberty

;

A

free nation is that which has never been conquered, or thereby entered into any condition of fub-

temple.
what, and fetter'd with fo many chains ?
Dryden.
How can we think any oat freer than to have the
will?
power to do what he
Locke,
This wretched body trembles at your pow'r ;
Thus far could fortune ; but (he can no more ;
Free to hcrfelf my potent mind remains,
Nor fears the victor's rage, nor feels Iiis chains.

je£tion.

Free,

Gov. efTmtgue.

To rub..
faucy, pe-

tulant; ppaec, Saxon, fugitive.]

A fudden and caufelcfs change of place.

Frior,

A fudden fancy; a humour; a whim;'
O! but a fear the fickle freait, quoth (he,
Ol fortune, and the odd^i of arms in field. Fairy 9,

!

When that frrat has taken pofleffion of a fantailical headline dillempcr is incurable. L'EjIrangc.

She is rcltlcft and peevilh, and fometimes in a
frtak will inflantly change her habitation. SfcSater.
To vex m; more, he took i freak
To (lit my tongue, and make me fpeak.
S\i!fi.

t. a.

Or bautunutfirak'il with many a mingled hue.
Tiipifit.

Fre'akish. aJj, [{toca/rtai.l Capricious;
humourfome.

my be a qucrtion, whether the wife or the

Frank

not gained
not purchafed.

Wc wanted words to exprefs our thanks: his no-

Not bound by fate

Souii.
;

Who alone fuffers, fuSersmofl i'th' mind.
Leaving free things and happy (hows behind. Shak.
11. Guiltlefs; innocent.
Make mad the guilty, and appall the />•«,
Confound the ign'rant,
Hbakefp. Ham/et.
My hands are guilty, but my heart hfree, Dryd.
12. Exempt: with o/'anciently ; more properly yrsw.
Thefe
Are fuch allow'd infirmities, that honcfly
Is Dtvufree of.
Sitekefp. fVittler') Tale.
ho fears not to do ill, yet fears the name ;
And y]fey>o;» confcience, is a (lave to fame. Deni,

W

Let envy, then, thofe crimes within you fee.

From which the happy .never muft \xfree. Dryden,
Their (iecds around.
Free from the harnefs, graze the flow'ry ground.

The will, free from the determination of fuch
13. Inverted with franchifes ; poffefling any
thing without vaflalage ; admitted to the
privileges of any botly : with cf.

4. Permitted; allowed.

Mi/ion' t Puredift Lcjl.

•

He therefore makes all birds of every fcft
Free o/"his farm, with promife to refpsA
Their feveral kinds alike, and equally protefl.

}

Dryden.

What do'ft thou make a (hipboard

.>

To what end

Art thou of Bethlem's noble college _/)«.?
Surk-llaring mad, that thou (hould 'It tempt the fea?

Dryden.

not necefFitatcd.

Freely they ftood who llood, and fell who fell
Notyi-re, what proof could they have given fincere
Of true allegiance, conftant faith, or love.
Where only what they needs mull do, appcar'd;

Not what liiey would ?

Bacon.

10. Clear from diftrefs.

Lccke.

(hould publilh thefe difcourfes; yet the publication
being once relolvcd, th: dedication was not inditfe-

3.

Pofe.

by importunity

delires, is left to tlie purfuit of nearer fatisfaffions.

Hooker.
Do faithful homage, and Kceivtfree honours.
All which we pine for now,
Sbakefp. Macbeth.
It wzsfree, and in my choice whether or no I

rent.

;

ble free olTers left us nothing to alk.

lion for the ordering of the church.

Scotch, brought into England by -i hmTo variegate; to checquer.

them atones for the liberty: Mr, Dryden

Dryden.

Their ufe of meats was not like unto our ceremonies, thatbeing a matter of private aAion in common life, where every man was_/r« to order that
which himfelf did; but this is a publick conflitu-

[A word, I fuppofe,

There furry nations harbour
Sables of glotTy black, and dark embrown'd.

g.

Prior.

Uncompclled ; uiireftrained.

2.

/eit.]

li

priety in

Set an u I'lappy pris'neryi«.

Who ne'er intended harm to thee.

a capricious prank.

To Freak,

fanftuaries

the feats of peace.
So Frejx)werful or wealthy in peace

Wiitfred, viftorious peace ; Reinfred, fin-

Spenfer.
Tithe* are thought to\)tfraye4l with the motion
caufed by noife upon the water.
Bacon.
Thefe vultures prey only on carcafcs, on fuchftupid
Blinds as have not lite and vigour lofray them away.

;

who at fometimes fpend at others fpare.
Pope.
Alexandrian verfes, of twelve fyllables, (hould never
be allowed but when fome remarkable beauty or pro-

Full of

e.

cere peace.

1.

Shaiefpi

No (Vatute in his favour fays,

Howyr« or frugal I Ihall pafs my days;

has been Xaofree of thefe in his latter works,

fredftole, i.

Spenfer.

FRbAK. n.f. [/red, German

That feeks to overthrow religion.

I,

The fame with /Mf^; upon which

Shatefp.

French.]

So diverfely themfclves in vain xiityfray,
Whilft Ibme ro<)re bold to meafures him Itandnigh,

2.

adj.

with e^.

Glo'fter too, a foe to citizens,
O'crcharging your free purfes with large fines.

Sivift.

;

2. [frayer, French.]

8. Liberal; not parfimonious :

freckles.

to terrify.
The panther, knowing that his fpotted hide
Doth pleafe all bealls, but that his looks ihtmfray.
Within a bufh his dreadful head doth hide,
To let them gize, while he on them may pn:y.

1.

uke

Spotted over like a leopard;
And, thyyivf^/fi/neck difplay'd,
Envy breeds in ev'ry maid.

The boafler Paris oft defir'd the day
With Sparta's King to mest in lingleyV<y.
Pofe.
3. A broil ; a quarrel ; a riot of violence.
I'll fpeak between the change of man and boy
With a reed voice, and turn two mincing fteps

[effrayer,,

Being one day \try free at a great feaft, he fuddenly broke forth into a great'laughter,
Hakaviil.
Free and familiar with misfortune grow,
Be us'd to forrow, and inur'd to woe.
Prior.

Wanting tJie fcythe, all uncorre£)ed, rank.
Conceives by idlenefs.
Hhakefp. Henry V.
Now thy face charms ev'ry Ihepherd,

Poft.

a combat.
Since, if we fall before th' appointed day,
Nature and death continue long theiryioy. DcKham,

a.

Where virtue is, thefe'make more virtuous, Shai,

B The freckled cowilip,

;

Acquainted; converfing without refewc.
*Tis not to make me jealous.
To fay my wife is fair, feeds well, loves company,
Isfree of fpeech, fings, plays, and dances well,

Spotted;

With lilken worms.
Drayton' s Cynthia.
The even mead that erft brought iweetly forth

To toil and ftruggle through the well-iought day.

1;.

'\

Sometimes we'll angle at the brook,
y\'.t freckled trout to

He left them to the fjtes in bloody /ivy.

la Fray.

7.

maculated ; difculoured with fmall fpots.

Sbehfp.tienryy\.

Into a manly i)rid< ; and fpeak aifrays.
Like a fine bragging youth.

[ftorn freckle.

aJj.

ingenuous ; frank.

;

I have doubts within my heart;
Will you he free and candid to your fiiend ? Ofway.

your tulips; therefore cover fuch with mats, to pre>
vtntfrecklej.
Eveiyn,

;

After the bloody friy at Wakcheld fought.

A duel

Siakrfp.

Open

Callalio,

The tarewell frotts and ealtcrly winds now Ipot

a fight.
Time tells, that on that ever blelSul day.
When Chrilliaii fwords witli Pcrfian blood weredy'd.
The furious prince Tancredic from \}t^3Xfray
His coward foes chafed through foreds wide. Falrf,

2.

6.

Thofe be rubies fairy favours ;

0\it fraught jgf^ Sir,

4,.

Feiton.
I know there ate to whofe prefumptuous thought!
Thofeyreer beauties, ev'n in them, fecm faults.
Pope.

In their gold coals fpots you fee

1 have convey 'd aboard.

Fray.

A fpot raifed in the Ikin by the fun.

1.

\o crowd.

;

O conl'pitacy!
Sham'ft thou to (hew thy dang'rous brow by nighti
When evils are mo& free?
Sbakeff,
Fhyficians are too free upon the fubjed, in the
converfation of their friends.
Temple.
The criticks have been ytry free in their cenfutes.

yi\iS.nc^j{eckle,fnckL:'\

by cor-

Licentious; unreflrained.

5.

Bailey.

If after this command is\o\\ taught the court
With thy unworthinefs, thou d> It. Shakrff.Cymk^

Lading

Defaming as impure what God declares
Pure ; and commands to fomc, leaves />« to all.
Millox.
To gloomy cares my thoughts alone mfree, s
111 the gay fports with troubled thought! agree.
Pope.

FRECKLE. «. /. {flech, a fpot, German

Hence from my fight

Fba'uchtag t.

l.'t'ftratige.

caliicfs.

freight, a cargo.

ruption. J

Why, Sir, I pray, are not the (Vreeti nfret
Sbak. Taming of the Shrev.
For me as for you }

cioufly ;

A

Fraught. »./. [from the participk.]

1

F R E

F R E

F R E
rttll, their fit htVititioa, fraxglir with (he,
tJnquenchaWe, the houfe ot woe and pain, fiti/tox.

14.

Without expence ; by charity, as a/r«.

fchcol.

To Free. -v. a. [from the adjeftive,]
1. To fet at liberty
to refcue from (lavery
or captivity; to manumit ; to loofe.
;

The child was prifoner to the womb, and is

By

F R E
•

^r guilty of,

If any be, the trefpafs ot the (juecn.
Shake/.
He recovered the temple, _/rf^V the city, and upheld the laws which were going down, z Mac, ii. zz,
Can'ti thou no other matter underltand,
Tlian him tiatfret'd thee by the pretor's wand ?

1.

Should thy coward tongue

that he could think of no better

of thofc meetings gave him, than to dil£>lve them.
Ciarendcn.

Hercules
fret'd Erymanthuay"«/ii the foaming boar. Drydin.
Our land hfram the rage o( ty^enJree'd. Drjd,
clear from impediments or obfiruc3.

To

O

To banifh

4.

neceflity, or pre-

determination.

We may again

In every fin, by how much the mote free will is
by fo much is the atl the more finful

in its choice,

and where there

is -nothing to importune, urge, or
provoke the will to any aift, there is fo much an
higher and perfeiltr degree oSfreed^m about that aft.

Daniel.

for he that is dead Ufree'd from fin. Rom. vi. 7.

[free and icotj.]

A

J.

Perkin was not followed by any EngliHi of name,
his forces confitled moftly of'^bafc people and /Vccloeteri, filter to fpoil a coaft than to recover a king-

dom.

Bacon.
The Earl of W.irwick had, as often as he met
with any Irifti frigates, or (\ichfree6iMter! as failed
under their commiflion, taken ail the feamen.
Ciarendon,
Fr«e»o'otinc. n. f. Robbery; plander;

the aft of pillaging.
Under it he may cleanly convey any fit piilaze,
thai cometli handfomely in his wayj and when he
goeth abroad in the night on yrre^e/i/ij, it is his
beft and furcftfncnd.
Spetif,r.

adj.

{ free

vai. born. 1

Wot a

bafenefs, to fupport a tyrant's throne.
I

Drydf/i.

my thoughts like a frctbum fubjcdt,

fuch thing' perhjps as no Dutch conjneatator could,

and I am fuir no Frenchman durft.
ihMfrtekont men, m humble awe.
Submit to Icrvile Ihanr.e ;
Who from confent and C'iftom draw,
The fame right to be rul'd by law.

Drjden.

Which king! pretend to reign?

Dryden.

n. J. [free
Such chappcJs as are of the

znd chnfb(l.\
king's foun-

and by him exempted from the
jurifdiftion of the ordinary.
The king
may alfo licenfc a fubjedt to found fuch
a chappel, and by his charter exempt it
from the ordinary's vifitaiion.
CVdv/.
Fri'eccst. n.f. [/« and f«/?.] Witljout
expence; free from charges.
Wt muft not vouch any man lor an exifl maftcr
flation,

in the

h"•

n\n of our modern policv, but fuch a one as
mifelf fo far to iiaic and defpile the
S iiind upon/rfiTii^, as not fo mu<.h

a< ;. ,.,. .. ,i,..uA

If my fon were

1

what it is o'clock for aoiJiing.
HouiU.

my hufband, I vionM freclier rewon honour, than

I pledge your grace; and if you
knew what pains
have beftow'd to breed this prefent peace.

You would driiik/rcf/y.

Shake/p. Henry IV.

Without fcruple; without referve.

4.

Let fuch teach others who themfelves excel.
And cenfure/rcc/y who have written well.
Pope.
J. Without impediment.

To follow rather the Goths in rhyming than the

Greeks in

true verfifying,

with fwine,

were even to eat acorns

when we may freely eat wheat-bread
A/ibani,

The path to peace is virtue

:

what I (how,

Thyfelf any freely on thyfelf bellow
Fortune was never worlhipp'd by the wife
But fet aloft by fools, ufurps the (kies.

my

Mae. xo.

The ftate of being without any particu-

6.

lar evil or inconvenience.

Dryden.

Without neceflity; without predetermination.

The freedcm of their ftate lays them under a

Freely they ftood who ftood, and fell who fell.

greater neccirity of always chufing and doing the beft

Milion.

„ leaves us to chulc with the liberty
He
of reafon,

things.

La-tu.

,

able beings: they who comply with his grace, comply with a freely; and they who rejedl it, do
alfo

Eafe or facility in doing or fhowing any
thing.

Jrtely rejedl it.

Freefo'oted.

adj.

\ free and font.]

Not

7.

reftrained in the march.

We will fetters put upon this fear.
Which now goes toofreefooled.

Rogers.

Frankly; liberally; without coft.
By nature all things have an equally uncommon

ufe
aitatcfreely and indifferently opens the bolbmi
of iheunivcrk to all mankind.
South.
:

Sbakefp. tlimlet.

Love mMtifreebearied be, and voluntary

8. Spontancoully ; of its own accord,
Fre'^eman. n.f. [free and man,]
I
One not a Have ; not a vaffal.
.

j

And not iacAntcd, ot by fate conftrain'd. Dmies.
Freeho'ld. ». /. \freezndhold.] 1 hat
land or tenement which a man holdeth in
fee, fee-tail, or for term of life. Freehold
in deed is the real poffeflion of lands or
tenements in fee, fee-tail, or for life.
Freehold in law is the right that a man
has to foch land or tenements before his
entry or feifure.
Freehold is fometimes
takcti in oppofition to villenagc. Land, in
the time of the Saxons, was called either
bockland, that is, holden by book or

Had you rathe:- Csfar were living, and die all
than that Csfar were dead, to live all/r«.
Shakefpeare.
If to break loofe from the condudl of reafon,
and
to want that reftraint of examination and judgment
which keeps us from chuling or doing the worft, be
(laves,

""''''

liberty, true liberty,

or folcland, that is, holden,
without writing. The former was held by
far better conditions, and by the lietter

madmen and fools arc the only

frermcn.
z.

i„^,_

One partaking of rights,

privileges, or

immunities.
He made ui freemen of the continent.

What nature did like captivts treat before. Dryden.
What this union was is exprctfed in the preceding
verfc,

by their both having been made /ircm<-« on

the fame day.

writing,

fort of tenants, as

full

embracemcats of his bed, where h^ would
(hew moft love.
Shake/feare' s Coriolanus.
3. Plentifully; laviftily.

all

beral ; unreArained.

And crufh yourjieeitni brethren of the world

Freecha'ppel.

fabbaths ihall be

Freehe'.^rted. <7<^'. [free unA heart.] Li-

Have ; inheriting liberty.

1 Ihall fpeak

feafts and

rtalm.

7.

with

among men.

will that all the

days of immunity. aady><<i/f>>i for the Jews in

6.

heartily;

joice in that abfeiice wherein h«

Unreftraint.
1

reftraint;

in the

South.

robber ; a plunderer ; a pillager.

Fke'eborv.

Without

'guft.

I

Atilicn.

To exempt.
». /.

2.

Thcir/r«</i>«; they thcmfelves ordain'd theit fall.

Siiikifi>.

Freebo'oteR.

At liberty; without vaffalage; without
flavery ; without dependence.

I clfe muft change
Their nature, and revoke the high decree
Unchangeable, eternal, which ordain'd

Not

Give to our tables meat, fleep to our nights,
Free from our fealls and banquets bloody knives,

5.

1.

Shak.

Power of enjoying franchifes.

4. Exemptioii from fate,

David.

fRE'ELY. adv. [from//w.]

Suj/l.

in ufe.

Never any fabbath of releale
Could free his travels and atHi^ions deep,

but under the law ; fo the law
did banith the Iriih lord, who could not live
but by

'"""'on.

This prince firft ^znfrecdon to fervants, fo as to
become citiiens of ci^ual privileges with the rert,
which very much incteafcd the power of the people.

Dryd,

to fend away ; to rid.

;

As extortion did banifti the old EngIifh/rfe/W</er,

who could not live

let the danger light

Upon your charter, and your city's ^cei/om.

Drydm,

This maftcr-key
Frees every lock, and leads us to his pcrfon.

who has a freehold.

To have the due and forfeit of my bond

Fierce was the fight; but haft'ning to his prey.

Dryden,

S-wift.

Freeho'lder. n.f. [dom freehold.] One
:

;

3.

S-wift.

I (hould be glad to polTcfs a
freehold that could
noi be taken from me by any law to which
I did
not give confent.

;

The chafte Sibylla lliall your fteps convey,
Andbloodof o&r*d vidlimsyrre the way.

My

Spenfer on Ireland.
freedom ! firft delight of human kind

If you deny it,

record.

move them.

That faUe enfranchifement with eafe 1$ found
Slaves are made citizins by turning round. Dryden.
2. Privileges; franchifes
immunities.
By our holy fabbath have I fworn

tions.

By force the furious \aierjree'd his way.

Liberty; exemption from femtude ; independence.
The laws thcmfelves t;i^cy do fpecially rage at, as

Bacon 't Office of AlUnalhrt.
There is an unfpeakable plealure in calling any
thing one's own: i. freehold, though it
be but in
ice and fnow, will make the owner
picaled in the
po.Teirion, and ftout in the defence of it.
Addifan.
friends here are very few, and fixed to the
freehold, from whence nothing but death
will re-

The privilege of doles ; nor yet t' infcribe
Their names in this or t'other Roman tribe

with o/" or yr^OT.

way to y^zfree'd o/thefc inconvenlencies the paiCons

^

but only where it were made by matter of

Not that which bondmen from their mailers find.

To

thereof,

manumitted.

moft repugnant to their liberty and naturat/^frf^vi.

Spread its cold poifon through the martial thnang,

Myjav'lin (hall revenge fo bafeapart,
And/ref the foul that quivers in thy heart.
Pope.
rid from ; to dear from any thing
2.
It is no mairail,

available, touching xSMfreehold ax inheritance

Libertus.
TheyircYm^ff joftles, and will be preferr'd ;
Firft come, firft fcrv'd, he cries.
Dryden's Jmv.
Fr e'e DOM. ?/./. [from free.']

DryJen,

ill:

F RE
A Save

Fr e'e D M A N. »./. \ freed and man,'\

}-ye€*d andenfranchisM; not a party to

The anger of the king,

"FRE

K

By law and proceft of great nature thence

F R E M 1 'n D E D
F.

.

AdJifon.
adj. [free and mind.
Un]

perplexed; without load of care.

To htfreemindcd, and cheerfully difpofej at hours
of meat, (leep, and exercife, is one of
the beft precepts of long biting.
ij„^„^

noblemen and gentle-

men, being fuch as we now call freehold.

The latter w.is commonly in the pofl'cf. Fre'kness.
v.f. [from/;w.]
1. The ftate or quality of bring free.

fion of clowns, being that which wc now
call at

the will of the lord.

Cvwel.

Ne ali«naiion of laadi baWcii in cliicf Oivuld

be

2.

Opennefs;

unrefervcdnefs;

injgenuouf-

ncfs; candour,
S

L »

Tl:e

F R E

F R E
At

F R E

Heav'n/r«» above feveie, the clouds congeal.

whence fhrenetify, fhreuetfy, phfeftzy, br

Drjdm.

And thn)' the cryflal vault appear'd the lUnding hail.

3. Generofity ; liberality.
I hope it will never be faid that the laity, who
by the clergy arc taught to be charitable, (hall in
their corporations exceed llic clergy itfelf, and their

DryJen.

Madnefs ; (liftraftion of mind ;
frenzy, j
alienation of underftanding ; any violent

The Ttiitr may

pardon it, if he pteafe, for

^irM//iof the eonfeflion.

Sprjtt*

fons, mfreemfs of giving.

Freescho'ol.

». /.

Freeze, t. a. pret./re«; fatt. frozen
ox froze
1. To congeal with cold.

Ttf

A

\_free ZTiiL/clxol.]

When we both 1.^ in the field,

which learning is given with-

in

Froxen alroofl to death, how did he lap me,
Shaktjp. Richard HI'
Ev'n in his garments!
My mailer and miftrefs are almofty)-o«(i to death.

out pay.

To give a civil education to the youth of this land
in the time to come, provifion was made by another
law, that there (hould be one fretfchoot at lead
Djvirt.
erefted in every diocefe.
Two clergymen flood candidates for a fmall/fccJcboal; a gentleman who happened to have a belter
underflanding than his neighbours, procured the
Swi/i.
place for him who was the better fcholar.

Freespo'ken: aJJ. [free znd/poieu.^

Why fuch a dilpofition of the body induceth fleep,
another diflurbt all the operations of the foul, ai.d
occafions a lethargy or frenxy : this knowledge exceeds our narrow faculties.
Bent.

Shalefpeare.

To chill by the lofs of power or motion.

3.

I

have a faint cold fear thrills through my veins,

That almoU/rffa^f up the heat of life.
Death came on amain

And exercis'd below his iron reign

pRE'ttyENtF..

Shakrf.

frequetttia,

Freight, v. a. pnter, freighteJ part.
which being now ufed as an
fraught
;

;

One of them

that was

and was a freiffoken fenalor,

faid,

Of angels, thus to Gabriel fmiling fpake.
Miltor.
Fre'cjuency. n.f. [frcquentia, I^atin.]
Common occurrence the condition of
1
;

adjeftivc, freighted

is

adopted, [fretter,

being often feen or done.

(hou'.d fup with us.

French.]

goods for tranfportation.
The princes

at fupper,

Have to the port of Athens lent their (hips,
Fraugljt with the minifters and inftrumcnts
Of cruel war. Shakefp. Troilus ani Crfffida, Prol,
Nor is, indeed, that man lefs mad than thefe,
V/ho/reigit! a (hip to venture on the f«as
With one frail interpodng pLink to fave
From certain death, roll'd on by ev'ry wave, Dryd.
Freighted vj\ih iron, from my native land
Pope's Odyjfty.
I fleer my voyage.

Stone

Freffiane is fo named from its being of fuch a conas to be

wrought and cut

any
IVocdvjard.
faw her hand ; (he has a leathern hand, nfrte^oftr*co\o^\tcd hand.
Shakefp. Asyou ^ike it.
The ftretts are generally pawd with brick ory>«Addifon on Italy
fimty and always kept very neat.
ftitution

freely in

dircd\lon.
I

iREBTHl'NKER.

n.f.

free
[

i

Of what uie

AJdiJan.
is freedom

of thought, if it will not
produce freedom of aftion, which is the fole end,
how remote foevcr in appearance, of all obje£lions
againd Chridianity? And therefore theyirrtA/w/tcrr
eonfidcr it as an edifice, wherein all the parts have

fuch a mutual dependance on each other, that if you
pull out one rmglc nail, the whole fabtick mufl fall
tJ the ground.
Sulfi.

Freewi'i.l. n.f. [/><•,• and tu///.]
J . The power of directing our own adlions
without reltraint by neceflity or fate.

We have a power to fufpend the profecution of this
Of that dcfire

:

this

feems to me the fource of

liberty ; in this feems to conlift that

which

properly cMtifrcruilll.

a.

is

all

im-

Locke.

Voluntaiinefs ; fpontaneity.
I make a decree, that all the^ of the people of
Ifrael in my realm, which arc minded of their own

frftivil! logo up to Jerufalcm, go with thee.
Ex,raf vii. 13.

Freewo'man. tt.f. [free and. nvcmaa.]
woman notenflaved.

A

All her ornaments are taken away; of tfreerL-imart;
(he is become a bondllave.

i

7» Freeze, v. n. rtKtti. froze,

Mae. ii. 11.
[•vrir/'en,

Dutch.]
1. To be congealed with cold.
The aqueous humour of the eye will riot/nezzf^
whiah it vcvy admirable, feeing it hath the perfpicujty and fluidity of common water.
Ray.
"Vhtfrecxjig of water, or she blowing of a plant,

returning at equidinant periods in all parts of the
eailh, would as well ferve men to reckon their years
by ai the motions of the fun.
Locke.

2.

To be of that degree of cold by which
water is congealed.
Orpheus with his lute made tree*
And mountain tops, thit freexe.
Bow ihcmfclves when he did fing.
Siair/fi.
Thau 4rt all ice, thy kiaiach/reexei. i'iaiejf.

tht frequenter thefe times are,, the better.
Duly of Man,

would

An ancient and imperial city falls;
Thi ftreets arc (ill'd vi\{\i frequent funerals. Drydm.
Frequent herfes (hall beiiege your gates.
2.

Freight, n.f.

Any thing with which afhip is loaded.

1.

He clean the deck, receives the m\%hly freight
The leaky velTel groans beneath the weight. Dryden.
2. The money due for tranfportation of
\

goods.
[fretteur, French.]

He

Full of concourfe.
Frequent and full.

To Freque'nt.

who freights a veflel.
Fren. n.f. Aftranger. Anold word wholly
forgotten here; but retained in Scotland.
Beanie.
But now from me his madding mind Ir (Van,

And wooes the widow's daughter of the glen
And now fair Rofalind hath bred his fmart,

Pipe.

Ufed often to praftife any thing.

The Chriftians of the firft times were generally
Duty of Man.
frequent in the pra<£ti«e of it.
Every man thinks he may pretend to any employment, provided he has been loud ini frequent in declaring himfelf hearty for the government.
Sivift.
3.

Fre'ichter. »./.

often feen; often occur-

ring.

It fliould the good (hip To have fwallow'd, and
Thtfrfighti/tg fouls within her.
Shakeff.

:

Latin]
Often done;

quern,
1.

Have funk the fea within the earth, or ere

libertine; a contemner of religion.
Atheift 9 an old fafhioned word
I'm a free-

full aflembly.

Thou cam'ft ere while into this fenate: who
Of fuch nfre^ue/tcyy fo many friends
And kindred thou haft here, fatutcd thee ? henyinf.
FRE'QUENT. adj. [frequent,YKnc\i; fie.

with which a veflel is freighted.
I

Concourfe ;

2.

To load as the burthen; to be the thing

2.

mA think. ^ A

liinirr, child.

Should a miracle be indulged to one, others wauld
think themfelves equally iniitled to it ; and if indulged to many, it would no longer have the efte^
of a miracle: its force and influence would be loft
by ihtfrtjuency of it.
Attrrbury,

To load a (hip or veflel of carriage with

1.

Marry, they
Bacon,

TtiE'i-STONS, »./. \ free znAjioneJ]
commonly ufed in building.

Shakeff. Tiam.

He, in iv^\ frequence bright

:

had them now >

French,

Crowd; concoutfe;

The frequence of degree.
Dryden.

7'9

[frequence,

f.

From high to low throughout.

Senfe fled before him, what he touch'd \xefroxe.

cuftomed to fpcak without referve.

ft.

Latin.]

aflembly.

;

Then upward to ihe feat of life he goes

Ac-

Nerva one night Cupped privately with fome fix or
feven ; amongft whom there was one that was a danlerous man, and began to take the like courfes as
Marcellus and Kegulus had done
the Emperor fell
into difcourfe of the injullice and tyranny of the
former time, and, by name, of the two accuTers;
and faid, what ihould we do with them, if we

jealoufy in him that ever governed y"«/ray. Shakeff.
True fortitude is feen in great exploits.
That juflicc warrants, and that wifdom guides ;
All elfe is touT\nffren.!.y and diftraflion.
Addifan.

To kill by cold.

2.
I

fchool

paffion approaching to madnefs.
That knave. Ford, hath the fineft mad devil of

AJiltetn^

-v.

a,

[frtquento,\Mm;

Fiench.]
To vifit often.; to
be much in any place ; to refort often Xo,
They in latter day.

frequenter,

Finding in it fit ports for filhers trade,
'Can more the (mx frequent, and further to invadft
Sfenfer.

Speijir.

There were fynagogues for men to refort unto
our Saviour hinnfelf and the Afoitiesfrequented them.

French chalk is an indurated clay, cxtreiricly
dcnfe, of a fmooth glolTy furfacc, and folt and unctuous to the touch; of a greyilh white colour, variegated with adulkygrccn.
Hill.
French chalk is unfiuousto the touch, as fteatites

By miht frequents my houle.
Shakeff. timcn.
At that time this land was known i^ijrequenjed

So now his friend is changed for ifAn.

FRENCH ChaU n.f.

is, but haixier, and nearer approaching the confiftence

of flone.
9"<»

fVood.

Fre'nchifv. T. a. [Uom French.']

To

with the manner of France;

to

infcft

They miHiked nothing more in King Edward the
ConfclTIir than that he was Frencbifed ; and accounted the defire of foreign language then t« be a
foretoken of bringing in (oreign powers, which indeed happened.
Camden'i Remains.

I{as he familiarly dill'ik'd

Your yellow ftarch, or faid vour doublet

Was not exaflly Frencbifci}'
t^tnrrrntix,;

fhrenetick.]

adj.

[fretiettque,

generally

Mad

by the (hips and vclfels.

Bacon..

With tears
Waiving the ground, and with our (ighs the air
Frequenting, fent (irom hearts contrite, in (ign

Oflorrow unfeign'd, and humiliation meek. Milton.

To ferve my friends, the fenate I frequent^
Dtnbam.
That he frequented the court of Auguflus, and

And there what I before digefted, vent.

make a coxcomb.

Fre'netick.

Hooker,.-

This fellow here, this thy creature.

;

therefore

Shakrfp.

French;
written

diftraftcd.

He himfelf impotent,.
By mean of hhfrenrtick malady.
Dan/ei.
Fre'nzy. a. /. ^f«iVis; firmiit, Latin

Drydm.
[from frequenl.]
Converfable ; acceflible. A word not now
ufed, but not inelegant.

was well received in it, is molt undoubted.

Freque'.ntabi.e.

adj.

While youth lafted in him, the exercifcs of that
humour not yet fully difcovered, made
him fomewhatthe mon frequentailc iai lefs danage and his

gerous.

Freque'ntative. adj.

Sidney.

[frequentatif, Fr.

Latin.]
A grammatical
term applied to verbs fignifying the frequent repetition of an aftion.

frequenlativtu,

Fk£(^e'nt£>«

F R E

FR E

F»E(yJE'.VTIR, »./. [Uom frequent.'] One
who often reforts to iny place.

They reprefent to themfelves a thoufand poor, lall,

Pcrfons under b^d imputations are uo grcat_/V^ya<««rx of churches.
Stvi/i.

F R E

innocent,/rf^ coloured young gentlemen. Addifr.
10. Briik; ftrong; vigorous.
As Tifrrjh gale of wind tills the fails of a (liip.

Fr e'qjjently. adzi. [frejuett.'er, Latin, j
Often ; commonly ; not rarely ; not feldom ; a confiderable naiaber of times
manifold times.
I could
not Without much grief; obferve how

oppofed to eating or drinking.
A low word.
12. Sweet
oppofed to Hale or ftinking.
:

\.

He (hall drink nought but brine; for I'll not (hew
him
Where the quick frijhes are.

in duik.
Here thj weil-ftndy'J marbles fix our eye";
A iiimi/refco here demands a (igh.
Pope.
FRESH, adj. [pnerc. Saxon; frai/che, Fr.
1. Cool; not vapid with heat.
I'll cull the farthtit mead for thy repaftj
The choiccft herbs 1 to thy board wiU bring.
And draw tliy waur froai <t«frcjhijt fpriog. Pilar.
2. Not fait.
They keep ihemfelves unmitt with the fait water;
fo that, a very great way within tlie fea, men may
'

To Fre'shen. v.

New

Fre'shet. v.f. [from/r5<&.]
frefli

A pool of

mixtures.

/V</iff or purling brook, or ihell or lin.

Milton,

Fre'shly. adv. \hoxn freJb.'X
1.

Coolly.

2.

Newly

;

iking.
It requireth good

ter oftentimes thofe

;

Tlity are now frejhly

organ, or to all the itrings and_/if/j of a l«ie.

m difkrencc with them.

Grttu's Cofmohg. Sac,.

if^r

5. In a ftate like that of recentnefs.
We Will revive thofe limes, and in our memories
Preiisrvc and Hill \ucffre/h, like flowers in waters.

ahakejp,

F R E 's H N E ss

Mill.

h.id

from

but

5.

paflion.
Calmnefs is great aJ.vantage : lie that lets
Another chafe, may warm him at his lire,

Bacun,

newnefs

Mark all his wand'rings, andeiijoy Wtsftts
As cunning fencers fuffer heat to tire.
Herbert,.
The incredulous Pheac, having yet
Drank but one round, reply'J in foberyVf/.
Tate,
You, too weak, the (lightelt lofs lo bear.
Are on thcyjw of pallion,, boil and rage.
Creech.
Yet then did Dennis rave in furious yV*-/ ;.
1 never anfwer'd, I was not in debt.
Pope.

of

Coolnefs.

4.

l-»Jl> from the faO, as in the prefcnt cafe,

To Fret. v.

Summer; but

On engines iheydiftend their tortur'd joints. Dryd.

they

a.

[from the noun.]

To agitate violently by external impulfc

1

or adion.

There are fome rooms in Italy and Spain (orfre/hand gathering the winds and air in the heats of

ni/i,

SlifF in denial, as the law appoints.

Agitation of the mind; commotion of

temper ;

the frtjhncfi and

The Scots bad thcadvant.ige both for nnmber and
fijineft of men.
Haynard.

The criminals aie fcia'd upon the place;

You may as well forbid the mountain pines

To wag iheir high tops, and to make a noife
When they »ie fretted with the gulls of heav'n.

be but penniiigj of the wiiuls,

and enlarging ihem again, and making them reBaoon,

verberate in circles.

Repaired from any lofs or diminution.

Say, if (he pleafe, (he hither may repair.
And breathe theyi f//.»-y> of the open .lir. Dryden,

Nor lies (he long; but as her fates ordain.
Springs up 10 life, wifrejh to fecond pain;

Shakefpcart.

2.

\

vigorous; cheerful; unfaded';
unimpaired.

And to the winds expos'd her glowing breaft.

To take tht fejhnrfi of the morning air.
5.

This pope is decrepid, and the bell goelh for
him
take order that when he is dead
there be chofen a

pope oifejh years, between fifty and
threcfcore.
Bacon' t Hdy IVjr.
Two fwains
Frejb as the mom, and as the feafon
fair.
Pope.

5. Healthy in countenance ; ruddy.
Tell me
Haft thou beheld ifrejhtr gentlewoman.
Such war of white and red within her cheeks >
Sbakefpeare.

England to fee ifrrjh
yoked to a confumptive

eoloored lufty young man
female, and him foon after attending hei
to her

liirvry inCjnfutr.pihm.

d.

Within the earth.
Shakejp. RichardU..
In the banks of rivers, with tlie wafhing of the

Addifon.

Ruddinefs; colour of health.
The Iccret venom, circlirig in her veins.
Works through her (kin, and burlts in bloatirg ftains
Her cheeks lheir/rf/X«</j lofe and wonted (jracc.
And an unufua! palenefs fpreads her face. Qranvillt.

Freedom from faltnefs.

Freshwa'ter. [.a compound word of/r</J
and 'water, ufed as an adjeftivc.] Raw
unlkilled ; unacquainied.
A low term
borrowed from the Tailors, whoftigmatife

water, there were divers timts fretted out big pieces
of E"WAiiof.
Belore I ground the objefl metal on the pitch, I

always ground the putty on it with the concave copper,
'till it had ion: making a noife;
becaufe, if the particles of the putty were not made to (litk faft in the
pitch, ihey would, byroUing up and down, grate and.
fret the objedt metal, and till it full of little holes.
Ne-wlon's Optickt.

;

thofe

3.

Antony
and, by (larts,
His fretted tor'.intes gave him hope and fear
Of what he has and has not. A'i.ji. Ant. and Cleop,

men, or novices.
Thofe nobility, as/rt/Z-U'fl/wfoIdiers which had

To hurt. by attrition.
Is valiant and dejedled ;

who come firft to fea as frejituaier

never itcn but fome light (kirmiCics, in their vain
bravwy nade light account of llie Turks,
KmUet.

To wear away by rubbing.
Drop them Hill upon one place.
Till they \ii\c fretted us a pair of graves

She laid her down to reft,

Dryden. ,

%. Florid;

fatigue;

with fields and meadows, woods and ri-

in the curious/) fr works of rocks and grottos.

SpeStator.
;

ftrength.

Carixu.

Amidtl the fpirits Palinurus prefs'd
Vei/rr/& Jrom life, a new admitted gueft. DryJex.

vers,

weary of thinking, that he
done well or virtuoully.
Soutb.

Freedom

3.

Recent ; newly come.

diverlilied

furely no man was ever

Tiiink not, 'caufe men flatl'ring fay,

That you are fo.

We take delight in a profpeft well laid out, and

from frcfb.'y

Freedom from diminution by time ; not

"V'mfrtjl as April, fweet as May,
Bright as is the morning liar.

[

ftalenefs.
For the conftant_/rf/5»^ of if , it is fuch a picafure as can never cloy or overwork the mind ; lor

Thou fun, faid I, fair light
I

/

flowers prelfcd or beaten, do lofe
fweetnefs of their odour.

If'allcr.

And ihou enlighten'd earth, fo/r,J6 and gay

».

to vapidnefs.
Moft odours fmell bcft broken or crulhed

2.

When we would ftill prefcrve ihem new,
Atkifr'Jh as on the bufh ihey grew,

.

Newnefs ; vigour ; fpirit ; th(
he contrary

1 .

Dcnham.

With fuch a care
As rofes from their ftalks we tear.

The/re/r of houfes, and all equal figures, pleafe
;
whereas unequal figures are but delormities. Bacon.

Looks he tsfrejhly as he did the day he wreftled?

Shall lead their lires.

Milinn'i Paradif LoJI.
Thai love which hrft was fet, will lirll decay ;
Mine of
date will longer Hay.
Drydm.

Work rifing in protuberances.

4.

With a healthy look ; ruddily.

3.

Milton's Paradife Lojil

'I'liey«re fitted to anfwer the moll valuable harmony : two or three pipes to -..II thole of a church-

Bacon.

With fome regard 10 what is jull and right.

I""'

Choral or unifon.

B; in their flowing iLnfn fc/hly remember'd. Sbak.

Frrjh in their minis, fearing the IX-ity,

. .
, ^
It IS no rare obfervalion in

Tcmper'd foft tunings,. inicrmix'd with voice

Familiar in their moutli as houlliold words,

not impaired by time.

Is fav'd to-day, to-morrow to be fliia.

:

Then (hall our names.

Drydm.

This (ccond fource of men, while yet but few.

7.

The harp
Had work, and relted not the folemn pipe
.\ai dulcimer, all organs of fweet (lop.
All founds on fret by ftring or golden wire,

feeds which for a while lie un-

fecn and buried in the earth ; but afterwards yViyi/i
fpring up again, no lefs peroitious than at the (irlt.

And while the dread of judgment pali lemains

6.

they go, the lefs diltance is between the/rrtr. Baton.

Hooker,

But to our crown he didyV^i jewels bring

winding of a (Iring before it will

make any note; and, in the tops of lutes, the higher

in the former flate renewed.

The weeds of herefy being grown unto fuch ripenefs
as that was, do, even in the very cutting down, fcat-

not had before.

Derbam.

Thatftopofthemuficalinftrumentwhich^
ciufes or regulates the vibrations of tho'

5.

from fea or Ihorc,

(i(h

No borrowed bays his temples did adorn.
4. New

Addifou on Italy.

The blood in a fever, if well governed, like wine
upon the fct difchargeth ilfelf of heterogeneous

water.
All

-fliid'i Dtjc. of the lyoiU.
;

Of this river the furface is covered with froth and
bubbles ; for it runs along upon the fei, and is lUIl
breaking agaiiift the ftones that oppol'e its palTage.

To grow frefli.

n.

Any agitation of liqueurs by fermentation, confinement, or other caufe.

Kfrrjhening breeze the magick power fupply'd,
While the wing'd velTel flew along the tide.
Pope.

take up is/rryb water as if they were near the land.

3.

Bro-wr.

2.

f

Prhr.

2. _A piclure not drawn in glaring light, but

To make

A frith, orftrait of the fea, where the
water by confinement is always rough.

Euiipus generally (ignifieth any ftrait,/m, or channel of the fea, running between two (hores.

Sbakefp. "Tcmprjl.

Prccluiive drops let all their moifture flow
In large etfulion o'er the re/hen' d world. Thomfn

Helliih Iprites

Love more the/ri/fo of the nights.

perhaps it comes immediately
from the 'L^lmfretum.']

Fresh, n.f. Water not fait.

1. Coolnefs; ihade; dulkinefs, like that of To Fre'shen. -v. a. [fiomfre/^.]
frefh.
theev'.ening or morning.

the etymo-

fretiller:

:

[Italian.]

[Of this word

«. /.

logy is very doubtful : fome derive it
from pjietan, to eat; others from ppetpan.
to adorn; -fome from ffiWo; Skinner
more probably from fremo, or the French

Holder.

Falling

1 .

1

frcijuintly both genikmen and ladies are at a lofs for
quellions and aiLvcrs.
Stuift,

FRE'SCO. n.f.

FRET.

4.

To corrode

;

to eat away.

is//rt inwaidi whether
w'thoul,
It

it

be bare within or

irw. xiii. 55.
Tiie

-

FR

R E

'F

Tk« paitofut hufluni), plowing up his ground,

Shall find all/r« with tuft, both pikss and ftields,
And empty helms under his harrow found. Haknv.

To form inro ratfi-d work.

5.

Nor did there want
Cornice or freeze, with boiTy Iculpturesgrav'n j
The reol was yif/Zfi/ gold. Milian's Paradife Lajl.
variegate ; to diverfify.
6,

To

Adorned with

whether the agitation be made by heat, fiiBion,
percuflion, putrefaiUon, or by any vital motion ?
Newton's Ofiicks.

Friabi'lity. »./ [^rom fiialli.'] Capacity of being eafily reduced to powder.

The refiflance in machines caufed by the
motion of one body upon another.
3. Medical rubbing witii the flefhbrufli or

Fre'tty. aJI. [itotofret.l
raifed work.

Hardnefs, friability, and power lo draw iron, are
qualities to be found in a loadfloiie.

Siak.

Becaufe thou hiAJ'titlttl me in all thefe things,
behold 1 will recompencc thy way upon thine head.
Exek. zvi. 43.
Such an expeflation, cries one, will never come
and go and
give
up,
even
it
therefore
I'll
topafs:

the lafer-tree, and fometimes on cedar, very white,

which we call agarick.
Bacon.
The liver, of all the vifcera, is the titoH friable,

light, ii\i friable,

order.
Holy Francifcanyr/ar

brother! ho!
Shakefp.
All the priefts zai friars in my realm,
Shalt in procelfion fing her endlefs praife.
Sbakejp.
He's but i friar, but he's big enough lo be a
pope.
Dryden.
Many jefuits Mii friars went about, in the difguife of Pielbyterian and Independant minifters, to
preach up rebellion.
Sivift.

to be agitated.

No benefits whatfoever (hall ever alter or allay that
diabolical rancour that frtU and ferments in fome
hellilh brealls, but that it will foam out in flander

and inveclive.
Th' adjoining brook, that purls along.
The vocal grove, now fnitiig o'er a rock.

South.

Now fcarcely moving through a reedy pool,

fbomf.

Thefe do but indeed

Fri'arly.

himfelf.

They trouble themfelves mUtfretiwg at the ignorance of fuch as withiland tiiem in their opinion.
Hooker,
are in i fretting mind at the church of Rome,
enter
into cogitation.
and with angry difpolition
Hooker,
Helplefs, what may it boot
Fjiry Slu,
To fret for anger, or for grief to moan

plant.

— Contending with

fretful elements j

\.\\z

Bids the wind blow the emih into the fea. Shakeff.
They are mnmt\'j fretful and pecvrlh, never well
at refli but always calling for this or that, or changHarvey.
ing their polkure of lyin^ ot fitting.
Are you pofitive uti fretful?
Hecdieli, ignorant, forgetful ?

£011 j pecvidmcfs.

-

3.

A monaftery

another: this is put
by the cuftom of the laiigL;age foraewhat

'v.

n.

mind

Was then fcarce friends with him.

To trifle.

His regal feat, furrounded by \us friends.

A fribbler is one who profelTes rapture for the woman, and dreads her confent.
n.f. [French.]

Aurora riding upon Pegafus, (heweth her fwiftand how (lie is z friend to poetiy a:;d all. in-

Peacbam.

genious inventions.

A dilh 5^e

6.

by cutting chickens or other fmall things
in pieces, and drefling them with ftrong

A familiar compellation.
Friend, how camcft thou in hither? Mat. xxxii. 12.
What fupports me, do'll thou aik?
The confcienceiyr/VW, t' have 1611 mine eyes o'er-

fauce.
Oh, how would Homer praife their dancing dogs.
Their (linking chcefe, and/i/Vtfry of frogs
He'd raifc no fables, fii!g no flagrant lye.
Of boys with cuflard choak'd at Newberry. King.

ply'd

Milton.

In liberty's defence.

I

[from the noon.] To
favour; to befriend; to countenance ; to

To Friend,

The

"v.

a,

fupport.

aft of

rubbing one thing againfl another.
Gcnt\tfrication draweth forth the nourilhment,

1

know that we (hall have him well to friend.
Sbakejpeare.

When vice makes mercy, mercy's fo extended.

hungry, and heating
them: ihisfrication I wifh to be dorw in the mornBacon's Natural llijlorf.
ing.
Rcfinous or un^uous bodies, and fuch as will
flame, attrad vigoroully, and molt "hereof without
ftication, as good hard wax, which will convert the
needle almoflas adfively as the loadllone.
Brown.
little

That, for the fault's love, is th' ontnitt friended.
Shakefp.

Fri'ended. aiij. Well difpofed

;

inclined

to love.
Notfriendrd by his wi(h to your high perfon.
His will is moil malignant, and it llrelches
Beyond you to your friends.
Shakefpeare.

Fri'ction. n.f. [friQim. Yt.friQio, from

Fri'endi.ess. adj. [fromy/veW.]
I. Wanting friends; wanting fupport; without countenance; dellitute; toilorn.

frico, Latin.]

1 he aft of rubbing two bodies together.
Do not all bodies which abound with tcrrelh'iil
farts, and cfpecially with fulphurcous ones, emit
ight as ofteB
Uiofc parti .ire fulficieuily agitated,

Dryden.

Favourer; one propitious.
ncfs,

SpeEiator.

Frica'i ION. n.f. [fricatlo, Latin.]

Shakefp,

make me amends.
Bid her but fend me hers, and we unfriends. Carnu.
4. An attendant or companion.
The king ordains their entrance, and afcends
If (he repent, and would

J.

m

Shakefp',

.>

One reconciled to

Ht'i-friends with CsBfar,
In (late of health thou fay'll, and thou fay'll free.
Shakefp.
My fon came then into my mind ; and yet my

trifler.

1 .

K friend.

— V^hitfriend f your name

A

Than thofe that willi the ftars iafribble. Hudibras.
». f. [from the verb.]
A

Sxvifl,

Fre'tfui ly. aiiv. [trom/>r//'«/.]Pcevifhly.
Eke'tfo LNEss. H. f. [from //({/*/.] Paf-

Dryden.

One without hoftile intentions.
Who comes fo fall in lileuce of the night?

2.

irregularly in the plural number.

by making the parts a

Shakefp,

The bounds, and fcek fome other felf, a frisnd.

Fribbler.

in a ftate ot vexation.

'Like quills upon theyr^^w/ porcupine.
Where's the ki'ig?

Siaiejp.

Wonder not to f<:c this foul extend

Though cheats, yet more intelligible

Dryden.

Thy knotty and combined locks to part,
And each particular hair to ftand on end,

God's benifon go with you, and with thofe

Francis Cornfield did fciatch his elbow when he had
fweetly invented to fignify his name, St. Francis,
with ifriary coviX in a corn field.
Camden's Rem.

FRICASSE'E.

and
Ecc. vi. 8.

That would make good of bad, And friends of (bes.

only in having a flower refem-

To FRrBBLE,

his own occafion,

will not abide in the day of thy trouble.

or convent of friars.
Fri'ary. adj. Like a friar.

Hudibras_/r«r;'wjf

tope.

[friar znA ctTMl.l

Fri'ary. n.f. [itom friar.']

Conqueft (hould be fo long a getting.
Huiilrat.
Drew up his force.
He fwells with wrath, he makes outrageous moan,
Htfrets, he fumes, he flares, he ftamps the ground.

Fre'tf u \..adj. [from/re/.] Angry; peevifh;

Sbaie/p.

Some man is a friend for

Like a

like.']

intimacy : oppofed to foe or

Friends of my foul, you twain
Rule in this realm, and the gor'd ftate fuftain.

It agrees with arum, from which

It differs

Who chafes, vihofrett, or where confpirers are.

How fbould \fret to mangle ev'ry line.
In rev'rence to the fins of thirty- nine.

One joined to another in mutual benevolence and

bling a cowl.

!

Xiakr/f>. Macbeth.
His hcart,y>c//e/i againft the Lord. T'rcv. xix. 3.

[friar and

Fri'arscowl. ».y;

Their wcunded fteeds
Fret fetlock deep in gore, and with wild rage

neglefted.
1.

enemy.

or man untaught in life.
Seek not proud riches, but fuch as thou may'll
get juftly, ufe foberly, diftribute cheerfully, and leave
contentedly; yet have no abftraft nor friar ly contempt of them.
Bacon's Ej/ays.

We

Yeik out their armed heels at their dead mailers.
Shakefp. Henry V.
Be rioD-mcttledt proud, and take no care

is

friar,

_

To 'be angry;

atij.

This word, with its derivatives,
pronounced fre»d,freBtily ; the / totally

Saxon.]

one holyday in the Chrillian calendars, in remembrance of thirty thoufand Hungarian martyrs (lain
of the Turks.
Knolles.

Wifeman.
to be peevifh; to vex

riation.

4.

(he would be as fair
Shakefp.
on Friday as Helen is on Sunday.
her
day,
will
change her cheer.
Venus,
like
For
Dryden.
And feldom (hall we fee a Friday clear.
FRIEND, n.f. ["vriend, Dutch; ppeonb,

unlkilled in the world.
Their friarlike general would the next day make

fcrape off the exuberances,

or fret into the wood, and therefore they are very
Aloxon.
feldom ufcd to foft wood.
It inflamed and fwelled very much ; many wheals
arofe, and JrUted one into another with great exco-

a Saxon deity.
An' (he were not kin to me,

Siuift.

To make way by attrition or corrofion.

J.

.'

draw a greater quantity of fpitits to
Bacon,

Friday. »./. [ppiS* &ae5.. Saxon.] Thp
fixth day of the week, fo named of Freya^

Fri'arlike. fli//. [from/r;V7r.] Monaftick;

; to be corroded.
Take a piece of glovers leather that is very thin,

ing itclofc, and then hang it up: the fal armoniack
Peach,
will /r^r away, and the gold remain behind.

the parts.

A friar would need (hew bis talent in Latin.

To be worn away

and put your gold therein, with fal armoniack, bind-

for that they

and eafily crumbled or difiToIved. Arbutbnot on Diet.

FRl'AR. »./. [A corruption of/rifr*', Fr.]
A religious ; a brother of fome regular

Callier.
fret myfelf.
Injuries from friendsyVrt and gall more, and the
memory of them is not lo eafily obliterated. Arbutb.

J.

Fri&ions make the parts more flefhy and full, as
we fee both in men and in the currying of horfes;

A fpongy cxcrefcence groweth upon the roots of

to vex.
The better part with Mary and with Ruth
that over-ween.
and
they
haft;
Chofen thou
And at thy growing \\nMsfrel their fplcen.
No anger find in thee, but pity and truth. Milion.
;

fo Fret. i». ».
I. To be in commotion ;

cloaths.

fnabilis,

;

Eauly crumbled ; eafily reduced
to powder.

Yon grey lines,

To make angry

Ijocke.

FKI'ABLE. adj. \Jriable, French

2.

Latin.]

That_/rrt the clouds, are mcffcngerj of day.

J.

F R I

1

1

A. as

!

I

am a ytosxin, frieiidlefs, hopclefs.
Sbak.HtnrjVVn.

Wat
/

F R r

F R

I
The captive Germans of gigantick fize,

Woe to him that is alone, is verified upon none fo

much as upon (htfr!md/r/i i-erfon.

To lomc new clime, or • thy native (ky,
Ofafnemilefs and iorfaken virtue Hy.
Dryden.
Eo^faken,/i-/cW/,^, will ye fly?

'

Pope.

Friendless Afflw. The Saxon word for

As It a mail,

in

l^im whom we call an outlaw, becaufe he
was. upon his excljfion from the king's

Should bundle

thiftles

peace and proteaion, denied

help of

all

friends,

Dryden

up'with rofes.

;

A

Buttrice,

Milion.

!

H.iw art thou
To me KafrUnily grown above the reft
O:^ brjial kind i
Miliar'! Paradlft
Let the N..ffau-ftar in rlfing majclky
appear.
And guide the profp'/ius miriner

With everh'ttioi bejnu aifriendly light.
2.

Prim.

Difpofcd to union ; amicable.

And each frjin each contraft newftrcqgth and light.

Cornice or/r/M, wiih bolTy fculptures

j

That all their eyes may bear ihofe tokens home
01 our relbreo Jove and amity. Shakijp. Hen. IV.

Frii'ndship. »./ [-c;r/V»^ra/, Dutch.]
1. T*-e (late of minds united
by mutual
benevolence ; amity.
There is hu\t friendjhif in the world,
and
OT all between eouals, which was wont to
be

fiified

that ihai'is, i> between fuper.or and

:

whofc fortunes may comprehend the one

u
He lived rather m a fair
I-

leaft

mag-

inferior,

the other.

Bacon.
any
Clarendon

,

intelligence than

frlendjhtp with the favourites.

If not laJriendjLif, live at

3.

Favour

;

leaft in

peace.

Dryden.

Sv/ifi.

my lord, hard-by here is a hovel

^Mmtfrundjhif wiU it lend you 'gainll >he temped;
Repofe you there.

5.

SbAeff. King Lar.

Conformity; aiEnity; correfpondence
aptnefs to unite.

We

know Ihofe colour* which
hirttfrlend/blp
with each other, and thofe
which are incompa^ble,
in mixing together thofe
colour, of
which we would
Oryden' Duf'I'.y

.
.
FRrtVp ;,./.r rj
l-KJtZE.
\drap de
frife, French.]
A
coarfe warm cloth, made perhaps
firft in

Friejtand.
If all the world

Would in a pet of temperance feed on pulfe,
"'"' '*"""'• '"'' """'"B *"' \>Mfrit:^,
AU-givu would be unthank'd.

-ru""!!,
Ihe

MiliJ

I

1.

and

.

2.

Addf^nonlulv.

4.

Dull; without (ire of fancy..

Yxach; fregaia,

If Juftiee Phillip's coftive he,id

Italian.]

SomefrigiJ rhymes di(burfes.

A

They Ihall like Perfian tales be read,
And gl.id both ba^cs and nurfes.

The treafure they fought for was,

embezzled m certain/. v^jri.

in

their view,

Raleigh', Ap^lory.

Beneath whofe (hades our humble/r,ga/r
2.

Chi'y,:e'sPhU.Prir.c.
.
„,
Wanting warmth of affection.
3. Impotent; without warmth of body..

a

[frigatt.

In this fenfc
feldom ufed but in fcicnce.

tolerable,

iMleJrie^lUe tower, running round the edges
of
the face, and romelimes with
a mafk for the face

fmall (hip.
Ships under fifty guns are
generally termed /),;fa//.

1.

Cold; wanting Warmth.

In the torrid zone the heat would
h.ive been inand in the frigid zones the cold
would
have dertroyed both animals and vegetables.

Re-

I have feen
the figure of Thalia, the comick
jnu e. fometimes ivith an
entire headpiece

,,/.

Fairy Sueen.

P
MiCErA'cTioN.
n. f. [frig,,, inA fach,
Latin.]
The a(rt of making cold.

FRIGHT. 'V. a. [pnijj^an,

Ta

To

Saxon. 1

terrify;

to difturb with fear; to
(hock with fear; to tlaunt; to
difmay.

T his was in the old authors more
frequently written afrigh,, a« it is
always
found
the Scripture.
The herxls
Were ftrongly clam'rous in the/r;;fiW fields.

m

Shakefp. HenrylV.*

With ruin upon ruin, rout on roul,

Milton.
Cherubic watch, and of a fword the flame
Wide-waving, all approach tar oH to fight
And guard all paffage to the iree of life.
Milt.n
"'' °' ^^"i" an fright a brave fpirit,
.J^'''

With innocence guarded,
With virtue rewarded,
1

makeof my fufrerings a merit.

Driving at ihcfe as at the highcft elegancies,
which
are but the frigidities of wit.
BroTx.;,'s l^ulg. Err
Of the two extremes, one would

phrcnzy ih-in frigidity.
3.

DryJenUAli.

itie minifrighti itfcif with
anv thin» refiedcd
on in grofs, and at a diftance things
thus olTcred
to the mind, carry the (hew
of nothing but

fooner pardoA

Pope

Want of corporeal warmth.

The boiling blood of youth hinders that ftrcnity

which IS neceflfary to fevere intenfenefs; and
the
frigidity of decrepit age is as much its
enemy, by
rcdlon of Its dulling moifture.
Glanville',

See/.

Coldnefs of aSl-ftion.

Fri'cidly.

ad-.;,
[from fng/d.]
dully; without a(R;ftion.

Fri'oidness.

Coldly;

».

/ [from ftigt.-/.]

nefs; dulnefs;

want of afiei^ion.

Cold-

Frigori'fick. ndj. [frigonfcus.fri^tts and
faao, Lat,] Cauling cold.
A word ufcd
in fcience,
Frigorifck atoms
(alls which float in

or- particles mean thofe nitrous
the air in cold weather, and oc-

cafion freezing.

Coiifufion worfe confounded.

S-wiff

Frigi'dity. «.y; [frigidiias, Latin.]
1. Coldnefs; want of warmth.
2. Dulnefs; want of intellcftual fire.

go.

Any fmall velTel on the water.
Behold the water work and play
About her little/n/i/, therein making way.
,

Sti'ifi

FRI'GID. adj. [frigidtts.Utm.]
It IS

Such a numerous hoft

^re ufjally fcnt only preferred by
c ."^^.V^P"'"*
Jnindjhlp,
and not chofen by fufficlency.
Spenfer.
Affiftance;
4.
help.

Gracious,

having a particular genius forfriixex,

Fri'ezelike. adj. [frieze and like.}
femblmg a frieze,

A wo-

Fri GHTFULNESS. „. /. [from
frightful.V
J he power of
mpreffing terrour. 1

napped with frieze.

-"VFricat.

Difagreeably ; not beautifully.
man's word.
Then to her glafs ; and Belt}', pray,
Don 't I look frightfully to-day ?
I

Red not in filente through tht frighted deep.

perfonal kindnefj.

\hifriendjh,fi, ftill to fcwconfin'd.
Were alvirays ot the middling kind.

grav'n ;

well, as to the prac-

I

2. Highcft degree of intimacy.

My fons, let your unfeemly difcj'rd ceafe,

z.

Dryden'i Dnfrefnov.
f
Fr.ezed. fly,-, [from /W^«.] Shagged or

1» of fucii pow:r to ftir up joy ai this.

Hsp- between the armies.
Let's drink togeh^r/aWy/y, and
embrace

This will make a piodigious mafs of
wafer, and
looksyr,jw/«//y tothe imagination;
'tis huge anS

M.lton's Paradife Loll.

I'olydore defigned admirably

J.'^alatary; HcmigeneaF.
Not that Nefcn he, which the wifeofThone
In Eg>plg TO tj jjve-iiorn Helena,

To life (ojricndy, or (a cool to thirft.
.;i/,V/o»r.
til ENDLY. ad-v. [n the rasnner of friends
with appearance of kindnefs; amicably,

Frightfully, adv. [from frij^itfuU
'
I. Dreadfully; horribly.
"^ ^ -^

norcoigneof 'vantage, but this bird

The roof was fretted gold.

V\V.t friendly colouri found our hearti
unite,

^

unpleafing.

Nor did there want

Lofi.

DryJ

A cant word among women for any thine

2.

j^^^^-^

Hath made his pendant-bed, and procreant
cradle.

tical part,

"

Without aid you durft not undertake
Th^s frightful paflage o'er the Stygian lake.

Nojntting//-,ra^,

Fri'£NDly. adj. [(romfrifnd.]
I. Having the temper and
difpoCtion of a

Be good, and/KW/yiliU, and oft return

are orders

of columns.

forth th.efr=a3
sUncy.
2. txertion of beRevolence.
Ltt al! the intervals be employed in prayers,
cyiint)-,friexdlit!efi and neighbourhood, and means
of
fpmtual and corporal health.
TayLr

friend; kind; favoiirable; benevolent.
They gjTt tlicm thanki, deCring them to be
fntndly iKli unto them.
2 A/ar. lii. 31.
Thou to mankind

Tliy fchooHays/r,;f*/>/, defp'rate,
wild, and fu,
nous.
CA 1 /v

S-wifi

there are as many kinds as there

»./. [from frieiiJ/j:]
difpoCtion to friendlhip.
Such a iikiig and fritndlimj, as hath btought
-^

Terrible; dreadful; full of terrour.
Tetchy aiid wayward was thy infancy,

1.

making oofies.

Frieze. J «.y; [In architefture.] A
large
TRizE. J flat member which feparates
the
architrave from the cornice
of which

Fri'endliness.
1.

FRj't;nTFtTL. o^-. [from frtg/,1.]

He could no more live without \\h frieze coat than
without his (kin.
Addifin', Guardian.
S>ee how the double
nation lies.
Like a rich coat with (kirts of/r;Vze;

To what new clime, what diltant (kv,

t.

F R I

Are rank'd in order, and are cUd inf^iiTie.

South.

^„;,^^_

To Frill, 'v. a. [friUeux, French.]
To
quake or fiiiver with cold. Ufed of a

hawk

;

as the \\,\wk frills.

Disi.

"'^' [/'W"' Italian ;y;a»f/,
^^L-'^^u^'
irench,]
Ornamental appendages added
to drefs or furnriure
It is in converfation ufed of loofeand feparate threads.

:

difficultv

Whence glaring oft »tih many a bnaden'd
orb,
Htjrighu the nations.
Thomfon',

I-RICHT. «. /. [from the verb.]

Antumn.

A fudden

terrour.
You, if your goodntfs does not plead

my caufe.
May think I broke all hofpiuble laws.
To bear you fr«m your palace-yard by might.
And put jour noble perlbn in i fright.
Dryden

ToFri'ohtew.o;. <i. Toterrify; to (hock
with dread.
The rugged bear's, or fpolted lynx's brood,
Frighten tht valleys and ialeft tJie

wood.

frior.

Thofe offic-s and liignities were but the facings

f"?S" of hi' Br^-tntfs.

or

«'„„„,

he i;oldcnyr,„^f ev'n fct the ground
on flame,
Aiid drew a precious trail. Vryd. F!;-wtr
and Leaf
i he (hadov, , of all bodies,
in this light, were bordered with three parallel/n>,jf„, or
banas of coloured
light, v-hcreof that which
-vas contiguous to the
(hadow was broadeH and mod luminous
;
and that
which was remotell from it was narrowed,
and fo
faint as not eafily to be vifiblc.
Nrtvlon's Opt.
I

To Fringe, i-. a. [from the noun.]
To
adorn with fringes; to Uctorate with or.
namental appendages.
Either fide of the bank,/-m^,</with
ful trees, reliUed the fun'i daru.

rooft beauri-

Sidmv
Of

'

©f-filvtr wings he took • (hining ptlfi

Dryd, IHrg.
Defraud us of the glittering finny fwarms
That heave oarfriths, and crowd upon our Ihores.
^hontfnn.

A kind of net.

z.

know not whether

I

The place where old cloaths are fold.

We know whit belongs Viafrfpprry.

Howd.
from Druiiia to play iheir altcr-gaine.
t. Old cloaths ; call drcffes ; tattered rags.
Poor poet ape, ihit would be thought our chief,
Whofc works are ev'n the/iipffry of wit j
From brocage is become fo bold a thief.
As we, the robb'J, leave rage, and pity it.

than that of the locuft, and

A fragment

2.

blefome intrufion of brmfrijking ideas, which thus
importune the undeiftanding, and hinder it from beLocke.
ing bettercmployed, I know not.

To dance in frolick or gaiety.
Weare as twinn'dlambs,lhat did/<v/!5 i' th* fun,
And bleat the one at the other what we chang'd,

have

I

1

Bacon's Natural Hifiory.

weakeft.

The ancient errant knights

Was innocence for innocence; we knew not

A drefs

1

And cut whole giants into/r/V'cij,
To put them into amorous twitters.

Alillon's Paradife Loft.

A wanton heifer yri/({i?i/ up and down in a meaL'EJirange.
dow, at eafe and pleafure.
Watch the quick motions of the fri/king tail,
Then ferve their fury with the rulhingmale. Drydrn.
So Bacchus through the conquer'd Indies rode,
And hearts in limhoXsfrijk'd before their honert god.
Dryden.
Oft to the mountains airy tops advanc'd,
fummits
danc'd.
^The frijking faiyrs on the
Addifon.
Thofe merry blades,
Prior.
Thitfrijk it under Pindus' (hades.
Peg faints at the found of an organ, and yet will
dance iaifriji at the noife of a bagpipe. Arbutbnot.
.

Sly hunters thus, in Borneo's ifle.

3.

A kind of gown for children.

I

And thefe to notes unfritter'd quite away.

All his agility is g.-)ne
In vain wfrijk or climb he tries j
:

Swift.

Frisk. »./. [from the verb.] A frolick ;
a fit of wanton gaiety.
Fri'sker. «./. [ftom/nji.] A wanton
one not conllant or fettled.
Now 1 will wear this, and now I will wear that

;

Now 1 will wear cannot tell what
AH new fartiions be pleafant to me
Now am -ifr'ilker, all men on me look;
1

:

I

?

Camden.

[from //"i^.] Gaiety;
A low word.
livelinefs.
Fri'skv. adj. \frifquet French; from/r^.]
Gay ; airy. A low word.
Frit. n. f. [among chymifts.] Afhes or
fait baked or fried together with fand.
Dia.

Fri'skiness. a./,

»./. [fretum, Latin.]
ftrait of the fea where the water be-

Pope.

FRI'VOLOUS. ailj.
moment.

[frivolus, Latin ; friSlight; trifling; of no

It is frivtlous to fay we ought not to ufe bad
ceremonies of the church of Rome, and prefume all
fuch bad as it pleafeth themfelves to diflike. Hooker.
Thefe feem very yi'/vo/owf and fruitlefs; for, by
the breach of them, little damage can come to the

commonwealth.
Spcrrfir.
She tam'd the brinded lionefs.
And fpotted mountain pard; but fet at nought
The^/ryo/oaxbolt of Cupid.
Milton.
Thofe things which now feem/iwo/oaj and flight,
Will be of ferious confequence to you.
When they have made you once ridiculous.
Rofeommon.
All the impeachments in Greece and Rome agreed
ot
being
concerned,
in a notion
in point of honour,
to condemn whatever perfon they impeached, how.
ever frivolout the articles, or however weak the
proofs.
Swift.
I will not defend any mirtake, and do not think
myfcif obliged to anfwer every/ /V.^/ckj objedlion.
j^rbuthitot,

Fri'volousness.

h. /.

[from frivolauj.']

W<int of importance; triflingnefs.
Fri'volously. aJ-o: [from /n'voUus.]
Triflingly ; without weight.
TflFRi'zLE, 1). a. [frtfer, Fr.]
To curl
in Ihoxt curls like nap of friezcv

A fmall animal with four feet, living^
both by land and water, and placed by
taking of bead and fifh

;

.is

par-

fa.iious in Homer's

There is likewife a fmall green
frog that perches on trees, faid to be

Poem.

venomous.
Poor Tom,

that eats the fwimming/rog, the
Shakefp. King Jjar.
Auiier is drawn with a pot or urn, pouring forth
Piachanu
water, with which fhall deicend/'a^j.
toad, the tadpole.

let divifion reign

How prologues into prefaces decay.

The mimick animal amufe{
They place before him gloves and (hoes;
Which when the brute puts aukward on.

my body of my fhephcrd's/roi-i. DryJen.

naturalifts among mixed animals,
liuJibras.

Break all their nerves, xni fritter all their fcnfc.
DuHciad,

French.]

rtrip

Frog. «./ fpposga, Saxon.]
1.

My racks and tortures foon (hall drive them hence.

'vole,

Milton's Agorijlet.

A kind of clofc coat for men.

ments.

To catch a monkey by a wile,

Shak'fpeare's Hamlet.

.•^damantean proof.

break into fmall particles or frag!

[y>-of, French.]

a coat.

2.

fried.

Joy to great chaos

now

not

Chalybean temper'd fteel, iai fiock of mail

Ainfworth.
A cheefecake ; a wig.
To Fri'tter. 'u. a. [from the noun.]
meat into fmall pieces to be
I. To cut

To

Pope.

field.

He likewife gives ^ frock or livery,

3.

I.

;

That aptly is put on.

Won all their ladies hearts in fights;

Thedoarineof ill-doing. Sbakrfp. IViiiter'i'Tale.
About them frijking play'd

the

That monrter, cuftom, is angel yet in this.
That tathe ufe of anions fair and good.

lived to (land in the

taunt of one tlrat maiiesfritleri of Englifli
Shakifp. Merry Wiveiof JVindfor.
Ifyouftrike a folid body that is brittle, as glafs
or fugar, it breaketh not only where the immediate
force is, but breaketh all about into (hivers, and
fritters; the motion, upon the prelTurc, fearching
all ways, and breaking where it findeth the body

:

Frock, n. f.

a fmall piece.

Scefe and putter

VEJIrange.

Whether every one hath experimented this trou-

ing confined i« rough.

;

rolls around

For their bairns bread, wives, and felvcs. Ben fi^njon.

A fmall piece cut to be fried.
MMSffrilters aud pancakes ynow fee ye make j
Let Slut have one pancake for company fake. TuJ/ir.

about, it will make the wmer fri/i and fprinkle up
Eicon's Natural Hj/lory.
in a fine dew.

it

a contradion of from:

They turn round like grindleftones.
Which iheydig out fro' the delves.

FRI'TTER. »./. [fri/ure, French,]

and

is

ufed.

its life Ihorl.

Broixin's Vulgar Errours.

draw it round about the lip of the glafs, prefling it
fomewhat hatdj and after drawing it fame few times

Frith.

Together clung,
2. It

The note otfrliinancy thereof is far more fhriU

1.

What (hould I do but fet cock on the hx)p

Miller.

The fcream of an infeftj as the cricket or

To leap; to ikip.

The huntlmen feize the grinning prize.

French.]

cicada.

fope.
w^ere old cloaths 3.\\& frippery are fold.
To FRISK. i». n. [frixzare, Italian.]

All hearts of th' earth.

out all that were atTefted to the Romans; and the
Romans, having recovered that country, did cut oflF
all that favou:ed the Carthaginians t fo betwixt them
both, to and/10, there was fcarce a native Spaniard
Spenfer.
left.
As when a heap of gather'd thorns is caft,
Now to, nov/fio, before th' autumnal Waft,

Fri'tinancy. »./. [from /i-///»»/o, Latin.]

Ragfair is a place near the the Tower of London,

The fi(h fell ifri/iing in the net.

[fritillfiire,

A plant.

Beit Jon/oa.

Put water into a glafs, and wet your

backward and forward, to and/rom.
The Carthaginians hiving fpoiled atlSpain, rooted

Ctretu.

ftopt from ilTuing out again.

The fighting-place now feamens rage fupply,
Donne.
And all the tackling is i/ripfery.

finger,

in oppofition to the word to; to zaA/ro,

to

Friti'llary. n. f.

Itisonlyqfed

Backward; rcgrefiively.

I.

low water mark, and having in
the filh
it a bunt or cod with an eye hook ; where
entering, upon their coming back with the ebb, are

from the land

Cay.

Therein 1 fpy'd this yellow/»7*/e</ hair.
ad-v. [pna, Saxon.]

FRO.

The Wear is a frith, reaching through the Ofe,

Shakeff.

Lurana is ifripj'i'y of bankrupts, who fly thither

my (hoe, and fwear

I doff'd

this fcnfe be now retained.

per. a, Italian.]

I. A

Hakeufiil.

Batavian fleets

Sviifi.

Fri'pperer. »./. [from fiippier, French.]
One who deals in old things vamped np.
Frj'ppery. 71,/. [f>i/:/>erif,VKnchi fnj,.

t.

Miltm.
And bulh, vi'nhfrixJed hair implicit.
'
ledii
They/xa/f/
and curled iheir hair with hot irons,

Thefriib, or haul his cables from the (hon: i

Fairfax.

My petticoat is doubly/' ;«g'i/.

I.

Th' humble (hrub

What defp'rate madman then would venture o'et

^riKgeJ with gold.
Here, by the facred bramWe ting'd,

I.

FRO

FR I

F R I

1 he hollow part of a horfe's hoof.
Fro'gbit. n. f.\ frog wA bit. An herb.

2.

'\

Ainftuorth.

Fro'gfish. »./. [/njjand^.] A kind
Aiitfiuorih.
of fifh.
Fro'gcrass. n. f. [frog and grafs.] A
kind of herb.
Fro'glettuce. a./, [frog and lettuce.^

A plant.
Froise. «./. [from the French /Vo^r,
the pancake

is crifped or

as

crimpled in fry-

A kind of food made by fr}ing
bacon jnclofed in a pancake.
FROLICK. adj. {-vrolijci, Dutch.] Gay;
full of levity ; full of pranks.
ing.]

We fairies, that do run
By the triple Hecate's team.
From tlic prefence of the fun.
Following daiknefs like a dream.

Now 3Ttj'roiick.

Sbakefptart,

Whether, as fome fages fing,
The/o/zV^ wind that breathes the Spring,
Zephyr with Aurora playing,
As he met her once a Maying
There on beds of violets blue.
And freih-blown rofes wa(h'd in dew,
Fill'd her with iliee a daughter fair,

So buxom, blithe, and debonnair.

Milton.

Who ripe, and frolick oi his full-grown age,
Roving the Ccltick and Ibeiian fields.

At laft betakes him to this ominous wood.

Mil'ori,

The gay, the frolick, and the loud.
U'ailer.
Fro'lick. n. /. [from the adjefti\>e.] A
wild prankj a flight of whim and levity.

He

FRO

FRO

He would le at his/nJlci once again,
AnJ his pretenfions to divinity.
Rc/ciiimsn.
Alcibiades having bee« formerly noted
like frrjhkt and excur&ns,

Gderationof thegreatnefsof hiiwotkl

Sivift.
While rain depends, the penfivecat gives o'er

Manly fpirit and genius plays not

S-wift.

tricks

with

Roive.

Gaily;

And joyful ages /;•<;« bebixd, in crowding ranks ip.
Dryden.
, „ ^^"20. hRoM afar.
Their train proceeding on thtii way,
From fir the town and lofty tow'rs fu'tvey. Dryden.
27. Fro.M high.

Wildnefs of gaiety ; pranks.
Fro'i.icksomely. adv. Ihom frtlid/ome.]
With wild gaiety.
Faovt. j>rf/:. [^am, Saxon and Scottifti.]
I. Away ; noting privation.

Z. Noting reception.

What time would fpaie/romfteelreceivesitsdate.
Poft.
3. Noting proceffion, defcent, or birth.
Thus the hard and rtubborn race of man
.?Viw)< animaied rock and Hinlbigan.
Blackmore.
The forg began/row Jove.
Drydrn.
Succeeding kings rifc/rc/M ihe happy bed. irmt.

4. Noting tranfiniffion.

Fion: •whence he fees hit abfenl brother fly.

For ever be thy bofom free'd.
16. Noting abfcence.

"

Out of; noting emidion.

prepofition, with its proper cafe.

there were mountains /iom the creation.

other had

Eternal Father, /><« hit fecret cloud

t. Noting progrcfs from preraifles to inferences.
If an objeftlon be rot remored, the condufion
•f eiperience/rwfl (he linie pad to the time prefenl
will not he .'bundand perlefl.

Batin.
This It evident from that high and refined morality, which (hined forth in fome of the ancient
hca-

been trained up //•»/» his youth
Clarendon.

The king is coming, and 1 muft fp»ak witir him

frim the bridge.

\kl

Were

\.

there,

r
from

all

eternity,

SbakcffearUtLimkt.

Do not believe,

Did you draw bonds to forfeit ? Si»n, to break
?
Ot mull we read rou quite/rom what we fpeak.
And Hid the truth out the wrong way ?
Donne.
20. Noting remo\aI.
Thrice //»/;: the gro'ind fiie leap'J.

From is

21.

joined by an
ellipfn with adverbs as,, frcm abo've,from
the parts abc^e; from Lelo^, from the

Dryden.

The fea being conl^raind
bottomofit.

And light on foot, their honour to regain.
39.

Framoui his fecret altar touch'd with hallow'd Rte.
'

.,

Ueoicr.

Whcn,/r(« abor-e, a more than mortal found
Dryden't Mn.

,

,

•

Ml/l-:,.'.

Of envy, dilcord, and of cruel deeds. Jirydrn'! jin.

mHom

to teach that which they fo did confirm.

„

Nowfliake/rem out thy fruirfiil brealV, the feeds

miraculous

From afar.

Dryden.

behold him a beholder,. commanded his guard
and
the reft of his foldicrs, toh.itten their death. Sidneyi.
And join thy voice unto ihe angcl-ijuirc

From aiove.

X-'jIil (leauU8«"/''»w

From oi/t.

The king with angry threatning«/;om out a win.
dow, where he was not alhamcd the world (hotild

conhrmalion of that which they
taught, endued them alfo with
from above,

2j.

modt^ird.

Knightf, unhors'd, may t\kfrwn oj/'iht plain.

He which gave thera/rom above fuch power,

Invadej his ears.

to withdraw //-o« of
of lands, which lay till then at th»

certain trafts

emplified.

for

From off.

38.

ofwhich fomc are here ex-

No fooner were his eyes in (lumber bound,

/V»m your own kowJtdje, aot/rm nature "t lawi.

Brought the full laver o'er their hands to pour,
?
And canillertofconfecrated flour. Pope'iOdvlTcv. \
*

:

From hitjh Meonia'i rocky (horcs I came.

tive of an atl or cffcft.
You are good, but /rtm a nobler caufe

Dryden' s Mn.
From behind.
There followed him JTCAt mullitudci of peoplt
from Galilee, and frombryond ]axim. Mai. iv. »e.
37. ¥s.OM forth.
Young Aretus, fromforth his bridal bow

36.

Dryden.

ler)' fre«[ucntly

Milion't I'aradife Lrf,

From beneath.
My worthy wife our arms mifliiil,

hnifrom beneath my head my fwoid convey'd.

Tilhifon.

Xiiitfrom the fcnfe of all civility,
I thu« would play and triSc with your
reverence

22.

Of poor defcent; Acates is my name.
AJdifin.
1 1. Bccaufe of.
Noting the rcafon or mo-

Prefence divine

35.

no rarmotable

Not in ufe.

Any thing fo overdone is from the purpof* of
playing; whofe end, both at the firft and now,
was
and is to hold, as twere, the mirrour up to mture.

places behiu \

abak.Hm.V.

My wand'ring, had n»f he, who was my guide

Up hitlier/iemaw.M^ the Iftejappcai 'd,

Taught/rawt hit tender yean the lalle of blood.

'

notmgextraftion.

34' fltOM among.
Here had new begun

The milk of tyger> wi: his infant food,

Dryden.

'AJJifoMi

-

in l^e war of Flanders.

South.

g. Noting the place or perfon from whom
a melTage is brought.

r

Raleigli.

had, /row my childhood, a wart upon one
of

1 he

From amidfi.

Thou loo (halt fall by timeor barb'rous foes,
Whofe circling walls the fev'n fam'd hillsenclorc;
And ihou.-^-hofc rival tbw'rs invade the (kie<,
Ani, from amidjl the waves with c^ual glory rife,

DryJcn.

Noting diftance from the part.
The flood was not the caufe of mountains, but

19. Contrary to.

Amid'rt, in thunder uiier'd thus his voice. Milton.
Then pierc'd with pain, (be took her haughty
head,
Si5h'd_from her inward foul, indthui (Vifaid. DryJ.

If native power prevail not, (hall I doubt

To feck for needful fuccour from luitbout. Diyden,
32. Fronh fomctiincs followed by another
33.

lay the deep foundationiof a wall

aitionsdone 'till about that time?

When the mod high

it may fpread into generationt,
and not he
pierced from •u'ilhout.

18. Since.

I

to find out what was the form of thf earth.
Burnri,
He bid her/rarntimc la time be comtortcd, AdiiiJ\

Sbakeff, King Lear.

And Er.os, nitn'ifrom me, the city call.

find time

From this enormous ftate, and fceV to gi«
Lofiea their remedies.
Shakejffar'i King Lear.
6. With /o following; noting fucceflion.
Thefe motions we mult examine yV»»i bril /» lad,

When the plantation grows to fttength, then it it
women as well as with men,

time to plant it with
that

Bacon.

Of diff'rcnces, which I bell thought it fit

I

'

31. Yf^O^A. <withrtit.

Prior,

Our father he hath writ, fo hath our filler.

To in\'v.trfrcm our home.
17. Noting derivation.

Fote.

30. Fro.M luhere.
/rem •stifre high Ithaca o'erlooks the floodt.
Brown with o'eraiching ftiades and pendent woods.
Us to thefe Ihorcs our filial duty draws. PopeU
Odvjl.

Noting exemption or deliverance.
From jealoufy's tormenting ftrife,

tj.

Noting abilradion or vacation.

Vol. I.

Hit daily vifion and his dream by night.
Forbidden Thebes appears before liiseyc,

Rulhto the race, and, panting, fcarcely bear

The meirengers/i-owi our (tfter and the king. Sbak.

.

VVhile future realms hiswand'ringthoughtsdelight.

DryJ. l^irgH.

Pafr.

From ivhence. From ishere Aipcrfluctis.

29.
Slak.

From thee to die.were torture more than death. Si.
Haft thou beheld when from the goal they llart.
The youthful charioteers %viih heaving heart,

ClarilTa drew, with temptinggrace,

^
Out of:

DryJcn.

Th' extremes of fev'riOi hope and chilling fear,

Dryden.

Dryden,

,

I'ROM tbePce, Jlerefrom is fuper.luous.
In the necelTaiy differences which aiifc
frcm
thcrce, they rather break into fevcral
diiifioiis than
joininnnyoncpubiickintei-cll; and from ht?<cehi^c
always rifcii the moft dangerous fadtious, which
h i«
ruined tl-.c peace of nations.
Clarendon.

Noting reparation or receffion.
To die by thee, were but to die in jell

14.

V-

28

His regiment lies half a mile at lead

Drj/Jn,

—How now, flutl!aa, cam'fl ihou/row the bridge

Then heav'ns imperious queen (liotdowir/romA/fS,

We fee the fucccfs of the battle from the

South/j»m the mighty powcrof the king.

In fetters one the barking porter ty'd.

••l:!"-

Sbakrfp.

VryJ,n.

And took him tremblingyraw fait fov'reign's fide.

IP,

my paternal care.

Not near to: notmgdiftance.

13.

Vili take ten tjjoufaod Cabje&s/rom your power.

A two-edg'd wejfon/nm the IhinJng cafe.

all

'

Your flighting Zulcma, this very hour

7.

difclaim

fis truefrom force the ftrongeft title fpringt,
I lher«fore hold from that which fitll made kings.

Fro'licksomeness.w./. [from/roAV/f/uw^.]

1 Ihall

I

very beginning.

wild gaiety.

ftas.and air.

By the facred r.idiance of the fun,

mach'ne >

Fko'licksome. aJj. [from/rfl&i.] Full of

DrydtM.

Sec, to their bufc irftcr'd, earth,

They who believe that the praifes which arife
from valour are fuperiour to tliofc which pioceed
from any other virtues, have not confidered. Dry J.
What entertainment can be nh'edfram fo pitilul a

Be tineft at every tinefliow,

„
From hehind.

25

Themyfteriesof Hecate, and the night

Here

\ni frolick it all ihe long day.

Noting the ground or caufe of

By all the operations of the orbs,
From whom we do exift, and ceafe to be.

Gljoville.

Vsio't.ics.Lr. aJv. [horn fro/id.]
wildly.

fovni
Whirls the black waves and rattling Honctan.i.nd.

any thing.

Then to her new love let her go,
And deck her in golden array;

5.

Out of.

12.

Dryden

Wliich, breaking /;6M beneath with bfllowing

Afiutblitt on Aiiments.

words, nwfrnllcki with the caprices of a frothy imajination.

With whirtwinds/rum Beneath (he tofs'J the fhio.

And bare expos 'd the bottom of the deep.
An arm aiifesout of Stygian flood.

Grieve for her forrows, groan for her defpair. frior.
Relaxation from plenitude is cured by fpare diet,
andyijBi any caufe by that which is contrary to it.

Cufedofihis.

JeFRo'LiCK. "v. n. [from the noun.] To
play wild pranks ; to play tricks of levity
and gaiety.

Til!o:fo„.

We licken foon from her contagious care;

for the

was immediately ac-

Hcry*c/;Vtr, and ptirfucs her tail no more,

rR o

David celebrates the glory of Go^ from the con- I
24.
From bencnW.
hrn^nfh
^I'-'^**'"

Strong god of iron, whofe iron fceptrc'fways

The frcciiTig north and h)-pciborcan leas,
Tcriour h thine, and wild amaxcmcnl, flung

'

From out thy cliatiot, wilhcrsev'n the ftrong. Dryden,
<
.<'
40. From out of.
Whatfi^Ycr fuch principle Ihcfe ii,

^ar ihey thr^pff, Dr^ien,
S

M

it

wii

at the

firH

«rft fcund out by difcourfe,
,

and

invm/rcm nt tf T» Front, v. «.
Hooker.

«he very bowels of heaven and earth.

Fro'ktal. n.f.

He, though blind of (igh(,
'

-Defpii'd, and thought extinguifh'd quite,

With inward eyes illuminated,
His fiery virtue rous'd

frcmuntimfbes into fuddcn flame. Milt.Agon'JIes.

^Z I'ROM ivithin.

.

From ivithtA

The broken bowels and the bloated (kin,

A buziing iioilc ol bees his ears alarms.

Not now in ufe.

As chearfully going towards as Pyrocles went
Sldi:cy.
froward yiwntujri? his death.
needle is continualljr varying
'l"he hori10nt.1l
towards EalV and Weft ; and fo the dipping or indining needle is varying up and down, towards or
Cheque.
f'tmvuards the zeiiiih.

Frondi'ferous.

adj.

[frondifer, Latin.]

FRONT, ti.f. [frons,LMin',frcitt, French.]
The face.

1.

His/ront yet threAtens, and his frowns command.
Prior.

They (land not/rm! \ofrcjil, but each doth view
Creech.
The other's tail puri'u'd as.ihey purfue.
The patriot virtues that difti-nd thy thought,
Spread on xhyj'rant and in thy bofoni glow. Thiitrtft,n.
2. The face, in a fenfe of cenfure or diflike : as, a hardened front ; a ixzizt front.

The face as oppofcd to an enemy.

His forward hand, inur'd to wounds, makes way
Upon the (harpcft_/ii/«w of llie molt fierce. Daniel.
4. The part or place cppofed to the face.
The acc'efs of the town was only by a neck of
)and our men had (liot, that thundered upon them
:

from the ram()ier

m front, and from the gallies th.U

lay at fea in tlank.

Bacon.

The van of an arm]-.

5.

'Twixt hoft and holt but narrow fpace was left,
Prefented, llcod in terrible .irr:iy. Milton's Par. Lcjl,

The forepart of any thing as of a build-

ing.
Both thefe fides are not only returns, but parts of
ty^e front; and uniform without, though feverally
-pariiiiontd witi.in, and arc on both fides of a great
and ftately tower, in the midil of thtfron'.

Bacun.

Palladius advifeth the fnnt of his edifice fliould
fo refpeil the South, that in its firil angle it receive
the rifing rays of the Winter fun, and decline a little
Broivn.
from the Winter felting thereof.

1 he pnnce approach'd the door,
Po(rersM the porch, and on tj^e _/r';K.' above
DiyJen's Mn.
He hx'd the fatal bough.
One fees the front of a palace covered with painted
Addijon on Italy.
pifljrs of dilfercnt orders.

The mod eonfpiciiocs part or particular.

7.

I0 FtiotiT. ij, a.

[frojn the noun.]

To ofpofe directly, or face to face ; to
encounter.
You four (hall front them in the narrow lane we

I.

Bronvn.

ferved as frontaUs in phrenGes.

Fro'ntated.

adj.

[from fronr, Latin.]

In botany, the frontated la^i o( a flower
grows broader and broader, and at lad perhaps terminates in aright line: ufed in
oppofition to cufpated, which is, when
the leaves of a flower end in a point.

^incy.

The

Fro'ntbox, ft. f. ^front and box.^
box in the play houfe from which
is

Tl'.at men may fay,

!

Behold the firli in virtue, as in face.

then they liflit on us.
Slukcff.
Cin you, when you have ptifhM out of your
gales fhe very defender of them, think to front his
rcvftiigcs with eafy groans.
^hakejpeare.
S->me are eitlier to be won to the (late in a fall
and true manner, ory>(//i/t</»ith fome other of the
fame party that may oppofe them, and fo divide the
fPjuit.-^tljn.
Hiuon's EJfays.
I (hall front fhee, like fomc daring jiholt.
wrongs
ahout
Dryd.
With all my
ij»e.
Don. Stbajlian,
i.

To (land oppofcd or overagninft any place
or thing.

The fqiiare will be one of the moft be.iutiful in'
biiili^at 00c cod vojtont (he

•dtO>

and a town houfe

(b^mb that ftands at ihe
aidJifononlitiiy.

waterilh parts are congealed : there is a mighty fpiris
which can retreat into itfelf, and within its own
compafsliefecuic from the freezing impreffion. South..

The appearance of plants and trees fpajk-

2.

ling with congelation of dew.

Nipped or withered by the froft.
The leaves are too mnch frcjibitlen. Mortimer.
adj. [from/rry/i]
Laid on in
inequalities like thole of the hoar froft

Fro'stSd.

a front.
Milton.

The

inarches; the limit; the utmoft verge of
any territory; the border ; properly that

which terminates not at the fea, but fronts
another country.
Draw all the inhabitants of thofe borders away, or
plant garrilbns upon all thofe yroM//Vrr about him/
Spenfcr on If eland.
I upon

my frontiers her* keep refidence.

upon plants.
The rich brocadedfilk unfold.
Where rifingflow'rs grow ftift'withyro/fi-i/ gold. Gay.
Fro'stilv. ad'v. [from fiojiy.^
with exceliivc cold»
1. With frolt
2. WithcHit warmth of affeftion.
;

Courtling,

Fro'stinfss.

Fro'stnail.

n. f.
[fronlifpicium, id
quod in frciite coufpicitur \ fronfffpke, Fr.]
That part of any building or other body
that direftly meets the eye.
With frontiff>iece of diamond and gold

Embellifh'd, tliick with fparkling orient gems
Milton's Paradife Lof.
The portal ihoiie.
Who is it has informed us that a rational foul
can inhabit no tenement, unlefs it has jultfuch a
Locke.
fort affronli/piceef
Thefronfijpieceoi the town houfe has pillars of a
beautiful black marble, (Ircakcdwith white. AJJifn.

Fro'ntless. fl<3)'. [fromy>-!j«/.] Not biiifh.ing wanting (hame void of diffidence.
;

'thtefronilifi man, we follow'd from afar.
Thy initruments of death and tools of war. Drvden,
For vice, though fn,ntkjs, and of harden'd face.
Dryden.
Is daunted at the fight of awful grace.

Pope.

Fro'ntlet. n.f. [from/rcw/, Latin ;y"««tenu, French.] A bandage worn upon the
foreliead.

How now, daughter, what makes thu frontlet
on? You arctoo much of late i* th'frown. iihaiejp.
They ihall be asyiofl//i/i.betwctn thi)^e eyes.
Dcut.n. 8,

To the foicheadyro«/fM were applied, to reltrain
IVifemun'i Surgery^
and intcicept the influx.

An

apartment in the forepart of the honfc.
an eminent (ireet, the
frontroonts arc commonly more airy than the backrooms ; and it will be inconvenient to make (he
your

rtiop (tands

fontmont ihallow.

FkuRE.

adj.

[itom friijiy.'\

Cold;

II.

f.

\fioJi

and

A

a/?//.]

with a prominent head driven into
the horfe's ihoes, that it may pierce the

Where rifingfeas infultthe_/"ro»//i'rgrounds. Addifon.

Frontro'om. n, f. [front AnAroomA

n. f.

nail

FRo'NTISPIliCE,

Strike a blulh through/rM/Ziyi flattery.

rather thou (hould'ft utterly

freezing cold.

A place there lies on (^allia's utmoft bounds.

;

I

Difpraife my work, thanpraife \tfroJlily. Ben fonfon..

Milton.

Fro'ntier. adj. Bordering; conterminous.

If

Italy wlien this Itatitc is elected,

When t\\t froji fcifes upon wine, only the more

Pofe.

Fro'nted. ffi^'. [from/reaj.] Formed with
Party»o»ffrf brigades form.

Shakefpeare'i llenryWW,

And then he falls.

when we the yioM/i^a; grace.

;

will walk lower : if they 'fcape from your encounter,

His gneatnefs is a ripening, nips his root.

Behold the groves that (hine with Witttfroji,
Their beauty wither'd, and their verdure loll. Pope.
Fro'stbitten. adj. {frofl and bitten.^

a direct view to the ftage.

Unleft gold fenfe preferve what beauty gains

The tender leaves of hopes, to-morrow blofToms,
And bears his blulhing honours thick upon him
Tht third day comes ifrof a killingyio/?.
And when he thinks, good eafy man, lull furely

there

How vain are all thefc glories, all our pains,

That little vihich is left fo to defend.

A dreadful intcival! »\\if,ont lafml
6.

;

Fro'ntier. ff./. [yi-cw/rVr^, French.]

This is the ufual fenfe.
3.

[frOHtate, Latin; fri,ntal,
Miltoa,
French.] Any external form of medicine
Yn.OK.tii. adj. [ii^Toz^a, Frozen, Dutch.]
to be applied to the forehead, generally
Frozen ; congealed with cold. Obfolete.
compofed amongft the ancients of coolers
O, my heart-blood is well n\%hfrorne I feele,
^Incy.
and hypnoticks.
And my galagc grown fafttomyheele. Sfenfer's Pajf.
We may apply intercipienls upon the temples of FROST, n.
f. [pnop:, Saxon.]
Wifeman.
maftick frontaies may alfo be applied.
The torpedo, alive, (lupifies at a diftance; but 1. The laft effeft of cold; the power or aft
which had
after death produceth no fuch elTeft
of congelation.
they retained, thiiy might have fupplicd opium, and
This is tlie (Vate of man: to day he puts forth

Dici.

Bearing leaves.

Frozen. This word is not ufed Cnce ths
time of Ml/ten,
The parching air
Hams frorf, and cold performs th' e(Fe£t of fire.

:

DryJen.

FRo'MWARD./»r^. [ppamandpcapb, Saxon.]
Away from ; the contrary to the word tonuards.

To ftand foreraoft.

but In that 6le,
Where others tell fteps with me. Shak. BenryVlW.
\ front

From under.

41.

FRO

FRO

FRO

in

Moxon.

[bevroxtit, JDiUch,, frozen.]

ice.

The claws are (Irait only to take hold, for better
progreflion; as a horfe ihatis (hod v\t\\

ftJl nails.

Gieiu'sCofmoi.-

Fro'stwork. »./. [frofim\Aivo)k.'\ Work
in

which the fubltance

is

laid on

with

inequalities, like the dew congealed upon,

(hrubs.

By nature Ihap'd to various figures, thofe
The fruitful rain, and thefe the hail compofc
The fnowy fleece and cwuQusfroJizL'ork ihefe

;.

Produce tiie dew, and thofe the gentle breele.
BUehieort,

F ».o'sty. adj. [ fro in frefi. ]
Having the power of congelation; ex-

I.

ceflive cold.
For all myblood inRome'sgrealquarrellhcd,
For all the fo/ly nights that 1 h..ve watch'd,

Be pitiful to my condemned fons. iikak. Titus Androrr.
The air, if very cold, irritateth the fl;iine, and
maketh it bum more hercely ; as fire I'corchcth in
Bacon.
^
frojiy weather.
gnat hjlf-ltarved with cold and hunger, went
L'RjIrangc,
out one frojiy morning to a bee-hive.

A

Chill in affection ; without warmth of
kindnefs or courage.

z.

Sbakef
What nff/ly fpirited rogue is this
grey-haired ; refembling frolt.
;

Hoary

3.

Where is loyalty f
If it be banifh'd from ttitfrofy head.
Where fhaJl it find a harbour in the earth f

Shak.

FROTH, n.f [free, D.anilh .tnd Scottilli.]
I.

Spume; foam;

the bubbles caufcd

in

liquors by agitation.
Hii hideous tail then hiukd he about.

And

FRO

FRO
F^>'y ^'"'
Of hij/wA foimy ft«d.
When wind cipireth 'om under the lea, as it

Though all to Ihivers dalh'd, th' afliult renew

2.

;

Who caieih his veal, pig, lod limb bemf/ro/A,

Shall twice in a week go to bed without broth.

Tuf,r.

To

to generate

fpunne.

He frets v;ith\t>, /rtrht trtafon at hl« moath.
DryJfn.
And churns it through hii teeth.
Eiccf* muddies the bed wit, and only makes it
Crfu/.

Fro'tiiilv, adv. \Uom frothy.
with fpume.
1. With foam
2. In an empty trifling manner.

Who virtu profefs
Fructi'f ERous. adj.
Bearing fruit.

To make fruitful

exhalis, wliith fall down in fweec
Ihowcrs tafruCify the earth. Hnuel's ybcal t'otejl,
Wheret'er (he looks, behold fome fuddenlifth.
Adorns the trees, inifritciijies the earth. Granville.

vifhly ; perverfely.
I hid me and was wroth, and be ynxitfinuardly

To Fru'ctify. nj. w.

if. Ivii. 17.

Fro'wardnkss. H.f.[itoiDfrvwarJ.'\ Pee-

maketh the virtuous in trouble, full of magiiammuy

logy.]

and courage ; and ferveth as a moll approved remedy
againll all doleful and heavy accidents wjiich bclal

men in this pref;nt life.

under them, tile fun being horizoiiud to iht: poles-.

Urmim,

FRL'CTlFlCA'TlotJ. n.f. [from frue/ ify.\
The aft of caufing or of hearing frui^;

A cleaving tool.

fecundation ;

AyVs^rr of iron for cleaving of lath,
Wiih roll for a fawpit, good hufbandry hath. I'uffrr.
To FROWN, -v. a. {frogtttr, old French,
^^Skinner.^

Full of foam, froth, or (pume.
fome wa-

tery and clear, as vines, beeches, pears ; fomc thick,
as applet ; fome gummy, as chtrties ; and fome

frothy as elms.
Behold a frothy fubftance rife

B*con.

That tile

to j'ui the pl.mt in a capacity ai fruSlfcaiiuir,

To cxprcfs dif-

Be cautious, or your bottle ftif s.

Sviift.

trifling.
K\it frothy

va-

nity of difco'jtfe that commonly attends thefe pom-

What is it but a moriihcation

;

frudify-l Fruitful; fertile; impregnating

with lertility.
Apples of pricr, and plenteous (heaves of corn
Oft interlac'd occur ; and both imivbe

And fuch a one as he, who puts his (ball,
ill! popular (hajl, againll a graver bench

Fitting congenial juice, fo rich the foil.

Shakffj>fart*t Ceriofanut.

So muchdoesy'rwd'wcwxmoifturco'erabriundl Philips,.

FRU'G a I., adj. \friigalii, Latin

; frugal^
French.]
'Ihrtfty; fparing ; parlimonious ; not prodigal ; not profufc ; not 1»»

V.w are too much of late i'th'frov.n.
Thou wart a prettyy fellow. wlien thou liadd
I

,

no need to care lor Yttrfr'ixvning. Shakefp, K. Lear.
Pt>pe
Heroes in animated marblcyroii'ff.
The wood,
Whofe (hady horrors on a riling brow
Wav'd high, ixtifnvjn'd opon the iltiara below.
Poft.

Fro'wn. n.f. [from the verb.]

A v/rinklcd

Though the principles of religion were never fo
clear and evident, yet they may b'- made ridiculous

look; a look of difplcafctrc.

•

by vain and f'othy men ;

fome notable exploit win again her favour.

Co a man of fenfe and virtue ?

L.' EJlra nge

as the graveiV and wifcft

Patiently endure that frovii, ai fortune, and by
Kno'lts.

perl'on in the world may be abufed by beiiigput in a

fool'icoat.

'tithi/on.

FROUNCE, a./. A word nfed by falconers for a diftetnper,

in which white fpit-

tle gathers about the hawk's bill,

iiianer.

To FRouNce. f. a. [from the noun.] To
friz/.le

or curl the hair aliout the face.

This word was at

firft

probably ufeil in

contempt.
Some frouner their curled hair in courtly gulfe.
Some prank iheir ru<fs,.and others timely dight
Thrir gay attiie.

Fairy Siurcn.

Some warlike lign mufl be ufed ; either a flavuly
kuikin, or aa overftaring /r«vnrr</ bead.

Jljcham.

In his half-«los'd eyes
Stern ver.geance yet and hoftile terror iland ;

His front yet tluiatcns, and iiiifrruint command.
I'yior.

Fro'wmncly.^A'. {iromfrmjcn,'] Sternly ; with a look of difpleafurc.
What, look'J he frowiixgly ^
A couitien.ince more in forrow than inangrr. Jihai.

This word
but inftead of h/rouzy.

Fro'wv. ailj. Multy ; mofly.
is

now not ufcd

;

he

F s-v'cTvovs. tzdj. {fniducDX, French from

How now, daughter, what makes that frontlet on ?

2. Soft ; not folid ; wafting.
Their bodies are fo folid and hard is you ne«d not
B/tcou,
fear that bathing lliould make (h*tnfruhy.

fertility.

fap doih powerfully rife in the S|iiin?,

that hath beheld how many gallons of waiet maj bo
drawn from a birch-ttee, haih (lender lealoo lo
Bri^vn't I'tlgar Eyrnnrs.
doubt.

Sjy, that (heyroujii ; I'll fay, (be tookt as clear
As morning rofes newly wafh'd with dew. Sbakfp.
They chufe their magirtiite;

Thaii cycjfrov^n'd,

/VxU. r.

Thus would (here nothingy™f /^, eiiher nejt or

know not the etymo-

[I

To bear fruit.

It wsteieih the heart, to the end it mzyfrufli/y;

vi(hnt;f5 ; perverfcnefs.
How tmn)- frciM.'arJneJ/'n of ours does he fmolhcr?
how many indignities does he pafs by i how many
Souti.
affronts docs he put up at our hands i
We'll mutually forget
The warmth of youth, tai /'roviarJnfi p( i%e.
Addlf Cato.

Fro'wir. n.f,

to i'ettilife.

which the fun

FroVardlv. adv. [from /nmw</.] Pecin the way of his heart.

;

The legal levies the fovereign railcs are as vapoura

7emfle.

in cradles.

kles ; to look ftem.

Fro'thy. aiij. [from/ro/^.J

t

Pope.

[fruSifer, Latin.]
Ainfiuorth.

To FRUCTIFY, t^.a. [fnic1ff,r. French.]

quieted by fear than by any fenfe of duty. L' Efirangf.
Motions occafion lleep, as wt find by the common ufc and experience of rockingyVeiirrfri/childien

pleafure by contrafting the face to wrin-

;

Pope,

Fetloiu of the Royal Socifty,

Shine in the dignity of F. R. S.

too, as 'tisSn ithy>»tf<:r</ children ; tliey '11 be lljoner

to wrinkle.

;

pous entertainments ?

F. R. S.

of cultom ii as turbulent a thing as iimovaiion,/^ii'.-or.
•Tis with_/riJ'U'flr</ men, tni frnnard fadlioiis

'\

What's a voluptuous dinner, and

Even here, whcreyraa^* challity retires.
Love tinds an altar for forbidden (ires.

Tim; inoveth fo round, that ayr;ia.iri/ retention

eloquence.
thing not hard, folid, or fubflantial.
J. Any

The fap of trees is of diftring natures

t
Carev/, \

I

Any empty or fcnfelefs flicw of wit or

[from the nonn.

One be^m of love will foon dcftroy
And melt that ice to lloods of joy.
3. Void of heat or appetite.

:

N<tvtcn.

Vain; empty;

in defpair;

trary to toiuard.
Theyis'aari/paia of mine own heart m.ide me
delight to punifh him, whom I clleemcd the chiclcit
Sidney.
let in the way.
She's notfrrward, but modell ai the dove
State/p.
She is not hot, but temperate as the morn.
Whofe ways ire croaked, and ihty frov.ard in
Frov. ii. 15.
tlieir puths.

A painter, having finiftied the pifture of a horfe,
Mcepting the loofe/rafA about liii mouili and his
bridle; and after many unfucccfsluleflays.defpairiug
a
to do that to his fatisfaaion, in a great rage threw
fpor.ge at it, ail belmeared with &t colouis, which
Jortunately hitting upon the right place, by one buld
of
ftroke of chance moll eiaaiy fupplicd the want
brrtlrft Sermeni.
aill in the artill.

3.

Againft whom was the Rncfr^Txn knight, fiojuK
but his armour naturally rcprefeining
ice, aud all his furniture lively anfwcring thereto,
Sidney,
Be not tvtYfroxen^ coy;
1

Swift.

<7<^'.

:

vth a per-

Drydef't F/rwer and Ltaf.

attire,

2. Chill in afFeftion.

[piampeapb.] Peeviih;
ungovernable; angry; perverfe the con-

Dryjen't Aurengsebe.
Vet then lov'd moft.
minIf now the colours of natural bodies are to be
agijled, let water, a little thickened with foap, be
Uted to raife ifrotb ; and after that froth has flood
view it
a little, there will appear, to one that Ihall
furtaccs
intently, various colours' every where in the
of the bubbles; but to one that l>iall go fo far off
anothat he cannot diftinguifti the colours fiom one

Drydi

A cheerful blaze arofe, and by the hte
They warm'd theiryiawu feet, an! dry'd their wet

Sits on her olouiiy wrinkled lace.

FRO'WARD.

;

1.

Swlfl.

cloudy.

Afriuzy dirty-coloured red

DryJiK.

flutter itd/rub high.

Dim

T' invade ihtfroxtn \v,iggon of the North.

When firft Diana leaves her bed.
Vapours and fleams her looks difgrace ;

They were the/i-«(A my raeiiig folly mov'd
When it koii'd up 1 knew not then I l»v'd.

foam ; to ihrow out fpume ;

DrytieK.
Fierec Boreas, with Ivs offspring, iflues forth

Petticoats in frouxy heaps.

;

The fcaiicr'd ocean dies ;

y»F»0TH, v. tr.

Whofe earth is bounded by ilitfroxeti fea.

F Ko'vzY. adj.

Black fands, difcolour'd/r»/i, and mingled mud arife.

».

Milloi

Wiih the Attick boy to hunt.
[A cant word.]
1. Foetid ; mufty.

Congealed with cold.
What was the wade of war, what fierce alarms
Shook Afia's crown with European arms ?
Ev'n fuch have heard, if any fuch there be,

'Till civil fuited morn appear

Vain batt'ry, and in/ro/Aor bubbles end. Milton.
The ufelefs/rori I'wims on the furface, but the
GlattvilU.
pearl lies covered wiih a mafs of waters.

U& whitenefs.

1.

Not ti ick'd Knifiounc'd as (he was wont,

eaufeth fome refouiidiiig ot the water, fo it caufeth
fomc light motions oi bubbles, and white circles of
Bjcoh 'i Natural Hifiory.
froth
Surging waves againfl a folid rock,

ther, the whole ^«;i will grow white,

F R U

Thus, night oft fee me in tiiy pile career,

AnJ th*«*lth ill CBwrapt the nimble thighl

But if they with tiiy gotea Ihould yedc.
They f'lon might be corrupted ;

Or li'ne not of t!icyV«y fede.
Or with ihi weeds be glutted. Sffnfir'f PaJloraJt.
Fro'zen. part, pn£. oi frtexe.

TJih.
Reafoning, I oft admire,

How nature wile ii\i frugal could commit
Such difproportions, with fupt:i(luous hand
So many nobler bodies to create.
Afiho»%
Greater fo manifold to his own tife.
And wiiig'd purvcyoTS his Iharp hunger fed
'W\\i\ frugal fcraps of fleih and inalltii bread, fiarte.
If through milts he Ihoois his i'ullen beams,
Frugal oiWghx, in loofc iind UiMg^liiig llrcams,
Sufjictfl a drilling day.
Dtyden*s Vir^t.
'

Fru'cally. adv. [from /i//i,'«/. j

Paifi-

roonioudy; fparingly ; tnriltil).
Mean time young Pafimond Ins maiiiagc prefs'df
And frugally rclblv'd, the charge (o lhu».
To join Itis brother's brid.il with bis own. iJiyaea^

Fruoa'lity. n.f. [frugaliu,Ften<:\\;frm»
gal: ins, Lat.]

Thrift; parfimonyi good

Tiufbandrr.
As for the general fort of men, frugally mwf
be the caufe ol drinking water ; lor that is no fmall
Bacon,
nothing (or one's drink.
Frugality and bounty too.
Waller.
Thole diff'iing virtues, meet in you.
I*
z
5

favini;, to pay

M

if

I .

adj.

If (he continued cruel, he could no

Latin.]

[frugifr;

be on his body, his appetites aiBweakcncd, and eapatity oifruilion deftroyed,
Rcgtn's Sermont.
the affiiition

more fuftain

nmuu fruiifti in the fun's Frc'itive. e^^j. [from
Sidney.

the noun.]
Enjoying ; poflcfling ; having the power of
enjoyment. A word not legitimate.

The Earth,

AinJ'worth.

Bearing fruit.

Fertile ; abundantly produftive ; liberal
of vegetable produfl.-

his life than the earth
continual abftnce.

Ariuibnofi >*a Bull.

Fhugi'ferous.

AfT.iflion generally difables a man from purfjin^
thofe vices in which the guilt of men confills : if

Fru'itfbl. o<//', [/r«tVand/«/7,]

la \\\\% frugality of your pnires. fome things \
Drjden't Fabtn, Didicaiim.
Miinot omit.
lines : it
'Ilie boundaries of viitue are inJivifible
the frontiers of
it impoflibic to mjtcli up clofc Xn
p»rlif,iira'ii\\ without entering the territoriit of
moTiy.

F R U

F R U

RU

Though in comparifon of Heav'n, fo fmall,.
Nor gliil'ring, may of folid good contain
More plenty than the- fun that barren IhineSiWhole virtue on itfelf works no effcit.
Mits«.
But in the fruilfjJ earth.

n. f. IfruSbts, Latin ; ffwyth,
Wclfh ; fruit, French.!
plant in which
J.' Tbe produa of a tree or

PRUIT.

To whet our longings iorfruitive or eiperimenut
knowledge,, it is referved among the prerogatives of
being in heaven,, to knowi how happy we Ihall he,

_

Boy^te,.

when thero.

_

the feeds are contained.

The (Irawberry grows underneath the nettle,

And «hclcfomc berries thrive and ripen bcft,

That one day blooni'd, 3ai fruitful inert, the next.

Sbahff.
Neif hbour'd hy fruit of bafcr quality.
lor
2. That part of a plant which is taken
'

3.. Ptolifick ;

knowledge, they did error find.

Duvici.

See how the rifing/ravV/ the garden! crawn.

P""'

.

FRu'nFULLy.WT:;. [Uom fruitful.]
How facredfeedsof fea, and air, and earth,
And purer lire thiough univcrfal night,
And empty fpace Hi fruhfiilh unite.

the king of Sweden's
this
>iaories ? Where are the/«.Vi of them at
?
day I Ot of what benefit will they be to pofterity
Sv.'ifi,

confiderir.g things In them-

your will want not, .time and placcwill hefraiifully

histhoughis
the
what
nature of the thiiij, and to his .ipprchenfion of
Lcci^:
it fuggefts to him.

P>uit

In hcav'n the trees
Of life ambroCal fruitage bear, and vines
AJUtiai't ParadrfelJiJlt
Yield nedw.
Greedily they f lock'U

Ti.e/fW.vgf^ fair to fight, like that which grew
Wear that bituminous laJic where Sodom tlamed.
MillQIl,

What is more ordinary *ni>h them than tlic taking
In (lowers mi fruiit^e for the gainifliing of their
A*"-'-

.

^

,

Fnu'lTBrAREa. ti.f. [fmU M\Ci bearer.]
That Tvbich produces fruit.
Trees, erpecially/mViMrriJ,, arc often inftflcd
Ahrrimir't Hufiandry.

Fru'itbEaRIKc. ad), [fruit and bear,']
Having the quality of prodijcing fruit.
of Jiftcreiu kinds one
thofe ih.u bear
or, aiiolhtr, as/(«;Vi..jnVjf trees 011
titits

AUrtimer.

r.ot.

VtiVi'rtntn.n.jr. [frKiiier,.Vtench.l

One

who trades in fruit.
I

did

fight

will

one Sampfon

Stoclefifb,

Hiiiry

.

a

W^

Siakifp.
/rjri/o-fr, behind t;ray's-inn.
WaliiUtJ ihcfru:i'rcr.'s hand in Autumn i\i\nf
Gay,
his g..in.
augment
plumbs jnd;um pears
Blue

Fru'itbry. n.f'lfhuie.ie, French,]
1,

Raleigh's Hijlory.

many children
The goddefs, prefent at the match (he made,
So blefs'd the bed, iuchfruiifalnefi conwy'd,
That ere ten moons had iharpen'd either horn,
Tocrown their blifs, a lovely boy was b6rn. Dryd.

Exuberant abundance,
The remedy of ftuiifulr.tfs is eafy,

[fruit

Fru.me'nty. n.f. \Jrumenium, com, Latin.] Food made of whe;it boiled in milk.
To Fru M P. 1'. a. To mock ; to browbeat.

.

Whom to my nuptialtrain Icariusgave,
P'lS"'' O.^^ifji
To tend the/--«/V^icwj.

•To

Frush..'7;. .a. [froiffer, French.]

EnjoyFRUITION. »./.
ment ; poffeffion } pleafute given by poffcllionor ufei

Man doth not feem to tell faiisfieJ cither with
fruitim of that wherewith his life is prcferved, or
with performance of fuch adtions as advance him
Unlkir.
Inoft dcfervcdiy in cftimation.
1 am driv'n, by breath of her renown.
Either to feek (hipwrecl;, or to arrive
Sbateff,
Where I .may \\iiifruiiian of her love.
(/od riches and renown to men imparts,
Ev'ii all they wilh ; .and yet their narrow healsr
Cannot frt great a fluency receive.

1

Tjo

Hanmtr^

bteak, bruife, or crulh.

.

[y;7/ffr,. Latin.]

like thy armour well

VWfrufh it, andunlotk the rirets all,

.

Shdieffeart..

Bjt I'll be mailer of it.-

Frush. n.f. [from the verb.]

A fort of

tender horn that grows in the middle of
the fole, and at fome. diftancc from the.
toe: it divides into two br.inches, running towards the bee!,- in- the form of «
fork.

Farrier's DiSl,

Frustra'neoxjs. adj. [fnifira, Latin.]
Vain; ufclcfs; unprofitable; without ad^vsntage.

Oft, ntJlwilliftanding .ill thy care

Wit once, like beauty, without artor drefs,
Naked and uiiadorn;d, could find fuccefs
'Till by fru'iiiani novelty deftroyed,

ufcfulncfs in it.

.

P^'tft-

A fruit-loft; a repofitory for fruit.

Sandy!.

The nyoiph Dull Ijud near charms to be enjoy'd.
Gratviile.

.

.

.

Aiiifiuorth.

Siinuer.

Their attompts being {esfrufiretueaus, and the dt.
monftrations to the contrary fo perfpicuous, it i^ a
marvel that any mail rtiould be jealoully allic^ed
in a caufc that has neither truth nor any honed

liicmpt from ills, an oriental blall

.

Fru M-1 KT A'oiotrs/ at/j, [from frumttttum,
Difl.
Latin.] Made of grain.

But ihcirfruiiion to a llrangcr leave.

Difaftrous ftits.

.

full

Ifaifer.

but no la-

and grt.-ves.]
Shades, or clofe plantations of fruit trees.
The faithful llave,

Sink.

of all goods, welli
digged, vineyards and. oliveyarils,andy'«/r-/rf« iji
A'ri. ix. 2{.
abundance.
All w'.ih a border of rich fruit-trees ctown'd,

They pol&lfcd houfes

Whofe loaded branches hide the lofty mould.

bour w ill help the contrary : I will like and praife
ibme things in a young writer, which yet, if he
continues in, 4 caiu»t but juftly hate him for.
Beu fonfon's Dfctrjfries.

Fru'itcroves.- n, f.

Lady, by yonder blelled moon f vow,
That tips with lilver all thck fruit-tree tops.
,

The quality of being prolifick, or bearing

3.

of that kind whofe principal value

Fruit coUediVely taken.

To help thy plants, on ihe (mMj'uiirry

3.

tree

arifes from the fruit produced by it.

.

with the meafles;

vray jralt

;

thaeon growing, that they had before the flood.
2.

collcftively ; various fruits.

work?

The
Autumn the time for gathering fruit.
Fruit-tree. n.f. [fruit and tree.] A

Fertility; fccundity;plentifulprodudion.
Neithcr'can we afcribe the iimefruiifulnrf! to any
part of thi earth, nor the fame virtue to any plant

SiJ«ij/.

They foall eat of the/rw/ of their own way.

Fru'itage. »./. [frmtiige, Frcnck]

Lfrydeii,

Fru'itfulness, »./. [from /»-»;//«/.]_
1.

and

Fku'ir-TiME. n.f. [//-a/Vand time.]

Dryden.

Fruitfully thoaai,

She bluihcd when (he cor.iidercd the eflia of
the
trranting ; (he was pale when the remembered
/•.///I of denying.

At'ter this fruit cui\o(uyfruiileJIy en<]uireth,

BrauiSr
confidence blindly dctermincth.
Walking th;y talk'd, and/ra/W^dirin'd
Whatftieud the^iticftefs by thofe worda delign'd.

Sbuhf^.eare.

otiered..

The effeft orconfequcnceof anyaftion.

tlws

ly ; idly ; unprofitably.

J^afecKmoii..

z.-Plenteouily; abunclantly.
You h.nve many opportunities to cut him off: if

felves, will be, ihateJchman will purfue
in that meihod which will he molt.agrecable to

hy

In fuch a manner as to be prolifick..

.1.

all

,

w

Having no offspring.
Upon my head they plac'd 2 fruiliefi crowBi
And but a barren fceptre in my gripe
No fon of mine fucceeding. Shakejf care's Maeielk,
Fru'itlessly. oxi'v, [itom/ruitlefs.] Vain-

3.

Throughnations/r»//*/of immort.il lays. AJJifon.

.

/•

Advantage gained by. any enteiprift or
corduA.

•6.

!

f

Me into foreign realms my fate conveys,

Saxaj.',

Another//a//, from

But let me hoie for .iy in peace remain,
Orllraijhtway on that laft long voyage fare. Sfenfer,
Serpent wemighthavc fpar'dour coming hither;
Milt.
> K/.'.V/r to me, though fruit be here t' excels.
The other is for entirely waving all fcarches into
antiijuit)-, in relation to this controverfy, as being
H'aterlaiid,
fruitkfu
eitiier necdlcfs

While you, my lord, therural (hades admire,.

When their fwol'n bellies (hall enlarge thtfrml.

of

!

And from Britannia's publick polls retire,

Can 'ft thou their rcck'ningt keep? the ttmccom-

What is become

O let me not, ^uoth he, letnm agai.-i
Back to the world, whofe joys (afruiUrfs are :

;

any animal.

5.

unprofitable.

Mil'.o^.
Subdue it, and thioughout dominion hold.
Uiave copied nature, making the youths »ni.>rous'
ia all goodnefa- andCa;j.
and the damlels />»../«/. _
,
Rplff. v. 9.
_
the young of. 4.- Plcnt(»us ; abounding in an>' thing.

The offspring of the womb

4.

Rjidgb', Hift,«j.

Vain ; produftive of no advant.ige ; idbc

2.

.

Imbibe the fun, and make hij light their own.
Bkckmort.

rlglvteoul'r.efs, and truth.

childbearing ;. not barren.

Hear, Nature, hear; dear goddelV, hear a father!
Sufpend thy purpole, if thou Jid'll intend
T<j make this crcHuvefruiifui :
Into lier wonJj convey lierility. Skutefp. Kittle Lur.
Male he created thee,.but thy confort
Female for race; then blefs'd mankind, #ndfaid.
Be/; «/{/;(/, multiply, and fill the Earth i

By tafting of that/ra/V forbid.

3. Produftion.
The /<•«•/ of the fpirit i<

The Spaniards of Mexico, for the tirft forty years, .
could not make our kind of wlicat bear feed ! but
it grew op as hiih as tlie tiees, and wai fruithh.

Xjjjhffeare.

food.

Where they fou-'ht

Frui'tless, aelj. [from fruit.]
Barren of fruit ; not bearing fruit;
1

2.. Attually bearing fruit.Adonis' gardens,

^Urt.

Me

timely withdraws his fruftrasicus bafHed.
kiadutfTes, aoJ Icct the folly ot endeavouring to

Oxok*

.

FRY
ing up

Them before the fry of children young.
Their wanton fports and childifti miith did play.

fi^Jirer, Fr.]

To defeat; to difappoint

And to the maidens founding timbrels fung. Fairy S^.
Draw me no conftellatioos there.

to baulk.

;

It is an aiiom of nature, that natural dcfire can-

To mock the ei; ;£>atioas of the world)

Oldham.
Of animals that ftock the tky.
The young Jry muft be held at a diftance, and

To_/rjy?r<i« prophecies, and ti raze out

kept under the difcipline of contempt.

I

Rotten opini

furvivc.

S'raLftieart'! fimryW.

i.

Stem look'J th-fiend, as friijirate of his will
Dryien,
Kot half fuffk'd, and grrcdy jet to kill.
Not more almighty to refill our might.

Than wife to frufiru'.e all our plots aiid wilcj, MUt,

To make null

t.

;

through a fan orJry,

To FRY. -v. a.

adj.

[from the

verb.]

Vain ; ineffeflual ; u&lefs ;
He is drown 'd

I .

.

unprofitable.

f

fuming the workmen, made the tn^'^raj\(e rugate
Ratergb' I liijiory.
AM at once employ their thronging darts j
air they join.
B^t out of order thrown,
And multitude makesyrir|AK>M the licfign. DryJm.

m

7, Null; void.

Few thing! are fo reftrained to any one end or
that, the

fame being eitiadt, they Ihould

forthwith utterly bea>me/r/(/?ra/f.

Frustra'tion. n. f.

In ftates notorioufly irreli^ous, a fecrct and irreftftiblc power countermands their dcepcft ptojefli,
fplilt their counfels, and fmites thtir moft refined
piilicies W\\\ifruflrallon and a curfe.

lacious ; difappointing.

Fal-

Ainfworlh.

Oil of fweet almonds,- newly drawn with fugar,

and a little fpice, fprcad upon bread loafted, is an
excellent nouiifhcr; but then, to keep the oil from

Nor billows with unequal murmurs roar^

wr.]

He fwaliows us and never cliaus

Ht ' '^

...,i.,_

:ind wr

thcyVy.

Dottne.

and leas each creek and bay,
fwaim, nnd Iboals
U( l.lii, t'lat wiih ilieir fins and Ihining fcales
Glide u^der ihc gieen wave in fculls, that oft
is

'

_

-•

-

Milton's Paradi/e UJI.
had ihe bap to draw up a very litile
fl
^lhey>>
L'EJliange.
So dofe beliind foa-e promontory lie
The huge leviathans, t' attend thct prey;
And give nt) chace, but fwallow in the/ry.
Which through tiieir gaping javw miftake the way.
-

'.fta.

Dryden.
z.

Any fwarm of animalj ; or young people
in contrmpt.
0a.»ltbc/i7*f thtft rakthcll horfcboys, grow-

Not tenable

; not to be held or detained.
Our idea of infinity is a growing zni fugitive
idea, ftill in a boundleis progrcifion, that can Itnp no
where.
Ueke,

1.

A

The

Fry'incpam. n.f. \fry and pa>t.'\

Happinefs, obJe£l of that waking dream.

veffel in which meat is roafted on the fire.
Il I pafs by fea, I may chance to fall from the

Which we call life, miftaking fugitive theme
Of my purfuing verfe, ideal (hade,
:

fiou-rl's Vocal Fcrrjl.

fryingpun into the fire.
We underftand by out of the fiyingf an into the
I/F^range.
fire, that things go trombad to wortc.

A

freeman of London has the privilege ot diftuibing a whole ftreet with the twanking of a brafs kettle.
or SI fryingfan.

AdJiJi^n,

To FuB. <v. a. To pntofF; to delay by falfe

Notionalgood, by fancy only made.

fit.

See Fob.

3. Volatile; apt to fly a wa v.
The more tender xaifugititie parts, the leaves,^
of mai^y of the more Ihirdy vegetables, fall off for
want of the fiipply from beneath : thofe only which"
art more tenacn;us, making a

fuch recruit.
_

atakrffeare'l Henry

W

The Trojan chief"
ThuzzfugiCfue about Troy wall.

Fu'cATED. « 7. \fttcatut latin.]

Oi fueus this and fucm

Miltm.
Flying from duty falling OiK'
Can a fugitive daughter e»j<iy herfelf, while her

5.

;

ja-r.-nts are in tears.

Painted; difguifcd with paint.
2. Difguifcd by falfe Ihow.
FU'CL'S. n.f. [Latin.] Faint for the face.

without

Whillt yet with Parthian blood thy fvvorJ is warm,
Ihefitgit'ive I'jrlhians follow-. Sbak.sAnl. andCl c*.

and 1 have bcrne, and borne, and
borne, and have been fublf'd otT and fubb'd ofi
from this day to that day, that it is a Ihaine to be
I

thought on.

(hilt to fublilt

H-'vodivard's Natural Hijlary.

Flying; running from danger.

4.

A hundrtd mark is along lone for a poor lone
^w>fflan (o bear

Piiof-

Unfteady; unftahle; not durable.

2.

pretences; to cheat. It is generally written

'6.

Clarijfa.

Wandering; runnagate; vagabond.
The moll m»lieious fiirmifc was countenanced bv
a lihcil..ii5 pumpliletof a/vg/V/i/i-phylician. H'ottani

Fu'ciiivE. ti.f. [from the adjeiaive.]
One wh(j runs from liia ftationor duty.

t.

Women chat

;

By him, as by chaiu'd Diot, whole ranks to die;

K. rV

irvus, Latin.

Not now in ufe.

They cor.r; lo us, but as lore dra*s;

,

Dryd. Don.Seiafiian.

FU'GITFVE. adj.\fughif, French ;///f,.

1.

The fvvarm of little filhesjuft produced
from the fpawn.

V

!

Fu B. n.f. A plump chubby boy. Ainftu.rlh.

Frv. «./. [from ftoe^ foam, Danith. Skin-

Boyie.

Uncertainty; inftability.
FuoH. viterj. perhaps from [?'i!'.]
An
expreffion of abhorrence. Commonlyyii^.
A very filthy fellow how odioufly hefmells of his.country garlick fugh, how he Itinks of Spain.

But fmoothly llide along, andfwtll the Ihoar,

Drydtn't Mit.
That courfe he fteer'd.
Fry. n.f. [from the verb.]
dilh of
things fried.

A piece cut
regular figure.
A term of

fcience.

I.

fpirit of urine and foot.

:

frying in the ftomach, drink mild beer after it.
Bueon'i Naiural tlijlory.
Where no ford he finds, no viuetfria.

FkUHTUM. «. J. [Latin.J
a-

lour fmell, tafte, and divers experiments that I puipofeiy made to examine them, were like th»falt and

2.

the fire.

Bartolus reft rains ibis to ifruJ!rMorjif^3\. Ayliffe.

from

71.
f. [fu^ax, Latin.]
Volatility; the quality of flying away.
Fijga'city, »,/ [fiigax, Latin.]
1. Volatility; quality of flying away.
Spirits and falts, which, by ([mrfugacity, e»-

Spices and gums about them meltingyry.

FRt;'sTRATORV.fl/^'. [homfrujhaif.] That
which makes any procedure void; that
which vacates any ftJrmer procefs.

oflF

To melt with heat.

Fuga'ciousnbss.

And pheniit !ikt> in that rich neft they die. HTillcr.
4. To be agitated like liquour in the pan on

South.

Fru'strative. atij. [(lomfrujirate.']

Volatile.

Above tlie brims they force their fiery ^way.
Black vapours climb aloft, and cloud the day. Dryd.

Latin;

i:om frujirale.'] Dilappoiotment ; defeat.

thered leaves in autumn.

So when with crackling flames a cauldron _/r/Vf,
The bubbling waters from the bottom rife

Ht/akrr.

[fn/ftraiio-,

Cor-

ruptly pronounced and KtMtnphilomot.
Fuillemorte colour fignilics the colour of wi-

Fuga'cious. flrt/V [fueax,fiizads,'Lziin.'\

To be roafted in a pan on the fire.
2. To fuffer the aftion of fire.

Shakefp. Tcmfejl.

lian bufied in ihcTC-edifjingof this temple, flaming
balls of lire iiltTing near the foundation, and oft con-

eurpofe,

FlJElLLRMOME.rt.f [French.]

1

The ruler of the province of Judca b-'ing by Ju-

Tbomfoti.

Some are plainly fficonomical, at that the feat
be well watered, and VitWfuelled. IVotton's ArchUeB,-

Welfh ;

tlie fire.

Whom thus we ftray to find, and the fea mocks
Ou'fruJIrate fearchon land.

Cowley,
'

To ftore with firing.

Mortimer's Hujhandry.

[fri^o, Lat. Jrio,

To Fry. t. n.

J.

Donne.

They;/i'/'(/<himney blazes widt.
2.

To drefs food by roafting it in a pan on

Milton.
Ar.ifiuJlraicJ ih: conqueft fraudulent.
The peculiar llreng'h r>f the motive may of itfelf
pcrhap3 contribute tofruflrate thc-efficacy of it, rendering it liable to be fufped^d by him to whom it is
Alter tury.
addrtfted.

FRtj'sTRATE, farlidfial

To fuel fuch a fever longI

/njci, Erfe.]

mi

cannot wafte by this,

Never, alas
the dreadful name
That fuels the infernal flame.

Collier,

A kind of fieve.
He dreffed the dull from malt by running it

to nullify.

Temptation, haft rcgaioM loft paradifc,

.'Vnd yet (he

Nor long endure this torturing wrong ;
For more corruption needle-fs is,

Fry. ntf.

The iSt of parliament whicli gave ill his lands to
fiujlrdtc AX fuch conthe queen, did cut <tS
Sfcnjcr.
fey aoces.
Now thou haft avcng*d
Supplanted Adam ; and by vanqsilliing

ceafe

Prior.
And as the yiif/finks the flame decreafe.
To Fu'el. 'V. a [from the noun.]
1. To feed fire with combuftible matter.

Nor dt^nor goat, nor bull, nor bear
Nor any of thatmonftrousy"yi

Hooker.

rot utterly \>tfrujiralt.

m knafery and villainy, are their kem con- JMov'd by my charms, with them yo«t love may

tinually fupplied and maintained. Spenfer on Ireland.

FRL'STRATE.

1.

FUG

F U E

Urokc a tyger into a Iamb, or to court an EthicSouth.
pianout of his colour.
v. n. [frijlror, Latin j
To

that.

Unmarried men arc heft fii-njs, bell mafters,
bcftfcrvants, but not always belt fubjefls ( for they
arc light 10 run away, and -idnioii iWfugili-ues are of

^c<r "Johrjin.

Thole \vho pamt lor debauthery Qiould have ihi;
yVcui pulled oft, ai d the cai feucfs undetncaih dif-

that condition.

T'oFu'uDi.E.
a. [Of unknown et>momology.] To make drunk.
The table fioatiig round.
And pivcinent faiihlc)^ 10 the fuddled feet, th'.mfon.
To Fv'oDLii. T. n. To drink to cxccfs.
Menwill be whormg ar.d faddli ig on ttiM.

.

%'.

Vijirangr.

FU'EL. ». /. \(ro:itJ^rt, fire, French.]

'1

he

matter or aliment of fnc.
This (hall be with burning aiid/af/offiie. If.'n.^.
This fpaik will prove a rapng fire.
SbuUj.

If wind and fuel be bioujlit tu feed 4 with,

Bacon...

Back to thy punilhment,
iAkfugilive ! and to thy fpced add « infj,

CUlier,

covcrcd.

,

I-dl with a whip of fcorplpns I purlue
.

Thy ling'riiig.

Milton's Pofadife I.'Ji.:.

Wc un.icrltind by (ome fugitives iliut he hath

1

commaiidcd

The generals toieturn with viflory, or expeill
Alhamcfirldcath.
2.

One who takes

(belter

power from pHnithnient,
Too many,

••

D(mbam'i:Sof.fy,

being -men

,

undsuanother

i

£,.good inhcriTa«c«( Sre

fledbeyoij the feas, w.'iet'e liiey live under princes
w hich ate her raajeftyij profefled eoemies ; and con-

.

VWf».!

F

FXJ L
ytfta and «fe confodirjit* with other tfiyton »ni
Sfrp/croa IrelanJ.

J'tigiik'ti tlicre abiding.

Voiir roTal highnsls is too great and too \vA,
either to want or to receive the honuje of rebellious

can Nature's bcautic* hitt
What mure but
Harle.
Or cjrch that i\ry/ugi/ivf, call'd wit.
liii:

Fu'oiTivENESS. H. J\

\ixota fugiiive.^

many concretes, are verify volatile, is plain trom the
_/w?.•V/^c^f.yi
diillll.iiinn.

of fait and of hartflijrn aitenJing in
Boyl^.
_

2. Inftability ; anccrtainty.

FUGUE, n. f. [French

{xomfign, Latin.]
In miifick, fome point coniifting of four,
five, fix, or any other number of notes
begun by fome one fingle part, andthen
fcconded by a third, fourth, fifth and
fixth part, if the compoCtion confifts of fo
many; repenting the fame or fuch liscc
;

notes, fo that the fcveral parts follow, or
come in one after another in the fame

manner, the leading parts ftill flying ht-

of repetition and tradudlion.

Baon^i Natural tiijlnry.
The' (kilful organift plies hij grave and

low and high.

Inftinff through all pioporlions,

Fled, and purfu'd

fancied

Milioii on Eiiucalmi.

Jefcant in \ofty/ugurt.
His volant touch

the.refonaniy<^P_ffc.

tranl'vcrl'c

Milior..

han% has a race of heroes (ill'd the ftage.
That rant by note, and through the gamut rage;
In fongs and airsexpreU their martial tire,
AJiifun.
Combat iu trills, and in ^ fugue expire.

Fi/'lciment. n.f. \fitldiiien, fulcimeiititm,
That on which a body reft.?,
Latin.]
which aftsor is afted upon at each end.

to obfcute or eitinguifli all jitrceptibility ol realbn.

FU'LGID. aHj. [fulgiJui, Latin.] Shining
glittering; dazzling.
FuLCi'Diry. ». /. {itota fttlgid.}

The power that equiponderates with any weight,
muft have the fame proportion unto it, as there is
bctwixi their feveral diftances from the centre or
IVilkiKs.
,

To Fulfi'l. -v. a. [full ^nA fill.]
1. To fill till there is no room for more.
This fenfc is now not ufed.

by

performance.
They knew him not, nor yet the voices of the
prophets which arc read every fabbaih-day, they have
yiijs, %i\\.iy.
The fury bath'J them in each ottier^s blood
Then, having fix'd the light, exulting Hies,
And bcars/i'^//'j' her promife to the Ikies. Drydtn.

_/5<^//erf them in condemning him.

3.

Milloil'i Ptiradi/e Lift.

To anfwer any deCre by compliance or
gratification.

my wounded breaft thou drop'ft a tear,
Think for whofc fake my brcall that wound did bear
And faithfully my lalldelires/i.^/.
As I perform my cruel father's will. Drydtn' i Oi'id.
If on

y. 'I'd anfwcr any law by

Love woiketh no

ill

obedience.

to his neighbour,

love is \.htfalfllmg of the law.
11. 13

I

therefore

Rom. xiii. 10.

my |l')ry account

My exaltation, and my whoU delight,
That thou in me well-picas 'd dedar'H thy will
fulfll'd, which {ofiil/ill is all my blifs.

f uLfR .'uGHT. adj.

Milton.

great in effetft.
Water digefteth a fuU meal fooner than any liArhvwi^^.
quor.

or wanted.
That day bad fcen the/a// accomplifhment
Daniel'i Chil H'ar,
Of all his travels.
is defired

Hrov.n.

When I fet my eyes on this fide of things, there

What remains, ye gods.

(hires fiom them fuch an intellciaual /«/^<.»r, that
methinks the very glory of the Deity becomes vifiblc

But up and enter now lurofull blifs ?

\fnlguratio, Latin.]

Hammtnd's Fraft. Caiechifm,

The aft of lightening.
Fu!lham. n. f. A cant word forfalfe dice.

The refurreflion of Jefus Irom the dead hath given
the vot\Afull affurance of another life.

Hnnvier.
Let vultures gripe thy guts, for gourd and Fulham's

inoft ilegree.
At the end oi tvio full yttn Pharaoh dreamed.

hold.

Grnefit.

After hard tiding plunge the horfes into water, and
allow them to drink as they pleafe ; but gallop thcns
y«//fpced, to warm the water in their bellies. Svfift*

whok matter; exprelTing much.
Where my expreOions are luit fofull as his, either

10. Containing the

our language or my art were defecfive ; but where
mine zxt fuller than his, they are but the irapiefiions which the oftea reading of him have left upon

Fu'ltmart, ». /. [This word, of which
Skinner obferves that he found it onlyin
this paflaee, feems to mean the fame with
y/o/j/.J

Should a man go about with never fo fet itudy to
defcribe fuch a natural form of the year before the
deluge as ihit which is at prefent ciVabliihcd, he
could fcarcclydo it info few words, fo fit and proper,
^ocdtcurd,
iofull and exprefs.

A kind of (linking ferret.
fichat,

IValton's Angler.

FULL. ad;', [pulle, Saxon; "vol, Dutch.]
Replete; without vacuity;

1.

having no

11. Strong: not faint; nof attenaated.
I did never know io full a voice iffuc from h
emptya heart ; but the empty vefTel makes the f rcitefi

fpace void.

found.

Better is an handful with quietnefs, than both the
hands ///// with travel and vexation of (pirit.

all noifes in

To mark tlie/a^'a;<gA/ man, the beltendu'd.
Hita'ief^an' t Henry V.

Siaiefpeare,

Barrels placed under the floor of a chamber, make
the fame more yi// and refounding.

£rel. iv. 6.

Valleyy*// of chariots.
The trees of the Lord ^xtfiill of fap.
Where all mMilfull or not coherent be.

Bacon's Natural Hifiory,

Dryden taught to join

I/iiliil>.

Pfjlmt.
fo/>e.
1

2. Abounding in any quality good or bad.
With pretence from Sirephon hrr to guard.
Sidney.
He met her full, but full of warcfulnefs.

In that fwcet ieafon, as in bed 1 lay,
lurn'J my weary fide, but ftill in vain.
Though y//// of youthlul health and pnin. Drydeti.
He \i full oi wants which he cannot fupply, and
I

compalied about with infirmities which he cannot
Tiiloifrt.
remove.
From yon bright heaven cur author fetth'd his tire.
And paints the paflions that your eyes infpirc ;
/V/Zof that flame, his tender fcenes he warms.
And frames his goddcfs by your jnatthlcls charms.

Gram'.

with any thing;
with any thing.

well ftipplied

Full at days was he ;
Tvit) ages part, he liv'd the third to ft«.

The varying vcrfe, they*// refounding line.
Mature ; perfeft.

[Applied to the moon.] Complete in

13.

orb.
Towards the /#/// moon,

its

as he was coming home
Wifeman.
one morning, he tclt hislrgs fanlter.
14. Not continuous, or a lull flop.
Theiewith he ended, making 3 full point of a

hearty fign.
1

5.

Hidtity,

Spread to view in all dimenfions.

'Till about the end of the third century, 1 do
not remcnilicr tj have fcen the head of a Roman
emperor drawn with a yi^// face: ihey always appear
in profile.
AdJifon en Mtaals.

Full. n.f. [from the adjeftive.]
I

.

Complete meafure ; freedom from deficiency.

When sve rettim,
We'li fee thofe things atitCied to thtfutf.

7i(kel.

Ptff.

2.

In the fultanry of the Mamalukes, (laves reigtcj
over families of free men ; and much like were the
cafe, if you fuppofe a nation, whero the cuftnm were
that aftcryv/Zacc the fons Ihould cxpulfe their fathers
Battn.
out of thcr potTeliioiis.
So law appears iinperfctfl, and but given
Wiih pinpofe to rcfign them in full time
Up to a better covenant.
Miltcn,
Thcfc thoughts
Milltn,
iv(//counfcl muft mature.

You rtiould tread a courfc
Stiakcfftjre^t Cymhelinr.
Pretty mdfull of view.
Followers, who make ihemfeives as trumpets of
the commoidatiun of thofe they follow, arc full of
inconvenience; they taint bufinefs through want of
honour from a man, and make
Bacon.
him a return in envy.
That mufl be our cure.
would
lofe,
To be no more ; fad cure j for who
Though y"«// of pain, this inielleilual being,
Thofe ihoughts that wander through eternity i .Mill.
Milion,
Clayrclijiion'sy//// of pomp and gold.

Denbtm.

my thoughts.

the /a//mai(, and the fetiet, live
upon the face, and within the bowels of the earth.

The

THIoi/om,

Complete without abatement; atthcut-

9.

And high and low beguile the rich and poor. Shjirff.
Fuli'ginous. (7<^'. [fuliginfux fe, French,
fuligimfus.'Lzun.] Sooty; fmoky.
Burrage hath an excellent fpirit to reprefs the
fuliginsut vapours of dufky melancholy, and fo cure
ISaeon.
madncfs.
Wlitreas hiflory lliould be the torch of truth, he
makes her in divers places a fuliginous link of lies.

MHiok,

Being tried at that time only with a promife, he
%iit full credit to that promife, and din gave eridence of his fidelity ai fait as occadons were oSl-red.

More.

throngh them.

3. Stored

Thy fall ha:h left a kind of blot

Complete ; fufh as that nothing furtlier

8.

in

[fall and fraught.]

Fully ftorcd.

With fome fufjiiciou.

Uvery one is /«// of the mtracles done by cold batht
Ltcle.
on decayed and weak cantlitutions.
~. That which fills or makes full; large ;

fcciccy, and export

To anfwcr any purpofc or defign.
Here nature (<xmt fulfil' J in all her ends.

4.

Crowded with regard to the imagination
or memory.

6.

the dark;
which fulgoKr, notwithllanding, ceafeth after death.

Fui.cura'tton. ». /.

Baton.

before it htfull of the fame objed.

'

Six gates i' th' city, with malTy ftiples.
And correfponfive and fulfilling bolts,
Sparreup the fans of Troy. Sbai.Troil. aniCrrJpd^i.

z. To anfwer any prophecy or promife

Splen-

Di^.
dour; dazzling glitter.
Fu'LGoUR.»./.[/»/e9r,Latin.] Splendour;
dazzling brightnefs like that of lightning.
liiftre

Wifenun'tHurg..

Saturaitd; fated.
1 am/a/Zof the burnt offerings of r.ims. Ifii.\. J i.

5.

The alteration of fcenes feeds and relieves the c;e,

And Ihapc ftar-briglit, appear'd. Milicn's Par.L>>fi.
The illumination is not fo krighi and /«/£i;«r as

as a balance or a lever.

futcim,ni.

byafall,.the wound infiamcd.
;

dazzling; exquifitcly bright.

Glow-wnrms alive projeft a

fat.

A gentleman of i full body having broken his Turn

_

_

Harris.
fore thofc that follow.
The reports and yV^art 'have an agreement wiih
thv- figures in rhctoriclc

44

A/wr'j Divine D;ul.

Volatility; fugacity.
That xiivers fait, emerging upon the analyfis of

1.

Fu'lcsncy. h. f. {fulgeti!, Latin.] S;
DiQ
dour; glitter.
Fu'lcent. adj. \fiilgcns. Latin.] Shining

Plump; fagiaated;

As from a cloud \\\%fulgtm head.

One hard to be caught or detained.

3.

F U L

UL

Shaiff,

He lii(ed the fOmp and abfolutc authority ot a
{emral

F

UL

general well, »nd preferred the dignity of it ts tKei
Clarendon.
ftll.

F U L

F U L

you hiT« the left part of a bottle of wi.ie for yo«r.

where the water raifes hammers
which beat the cloth 'till it be cleanfed.

Sivift.

felf.

|

The piSure of Ptolemy P' Mopjter is given by authors to AitfuU.
Sicilian tortures and the hrazen hull.
Are emhlems, rather than exprcfs x\\^fuH

Dyydtn't Per/.

Of what he feels.

If where the rules not far enough extend,

Some lucity licence anfwer to \.ht/i:l!
Th' intent propos'd, that licence is a rule.
a. The highelt ftate or degree.
The fwan's down feather.
That ftands upon the fwel! at/a// of tide.

Pcfe.

The king hath won, and hath fent out
:

Sbakrffirarr's Henry IV.
But what h/hII I know, thou know'l^ no part;

.This is the news nifull.

Shaktjffeare.

4. The ftate of being fatiated.
When I had fed them to the faJl.
Jrr. v. 7.
The time in
5. [Applied to the moon.]

which the moon makes a perfeft orb.
Brains in rabbits, woodcocks, and calves, are fullBacon's Natural Hijl.
ed in the^i/// of the mooiu

FO

[,

L . adti.

Without abatement or dimlnutiott.

1.

Fu'lly. ad-Tj. [fro my}///.]
1, Without vacuity.

1

2. Completely;

[full and b!invn.'\
Spread to the utmoft extent, as a pcrfeft

2. Stretched

Full-ea'red. adj. [ full und ear.l Having
the heads full of grain.
As flames roU'd by the winds confpiring force.

Free from deceit his face, and fulJ as free his heart.

Dry den.

The moft judicious writer is fometimes mistaken
after ail his care ; but the haily critick,

who judges
Dryden.

oa a view, is/ii// as liable to bn: deceived.

since you may
Sufpcft my courage, if 1 Ihould not lay.
The pawn I proffer ihall hcfutltit good. Dryd. Virg.

2. With the whole effed,
'Tis the pencil, thrown luckily full upon the
horfe's mouth to cxprefs the foam, which the paintxty with all his (kill,, could not perform without it.
D'ydtn's Dufrefnoy.
From harmony, from heavenly harmony,
This univerfal frame began :

From harmony to harmony.

Full in the centre of the faered wood,

An arm arifeth of the Stygian flood.

Addifin.

Sidney.

He then com'tonts the bull,
And on his ample forehead ii\mm%futl,

~.

I

I'lie deadly ftroke defccnjing pierc'd the Ikull.

C

Dryden. ^

At length refolv'd, he throws v/ith all his lore
Tuli at the temples of the warrior horfe.

5. It is placed before adverbs

Dryden.

and adjec-

tives, to intend or ftrengthen their (igniTell me why on yonr (hield, (b goodly fcor'd,
fear ye the picture of that lady's l>ead }

/W/ lively in the fenWant, though the fubllance dead.
Sftnfer,
I was fet at work
; full little. Cod knows, looking
Either for luch men or fuch byfincfs.
Sbakrjp.
full well ye rejefl thccommanJment. Mar.y\\.<).

Among my maids

Adam was all in tcar^, and to his gVide
LameEiting tr.rn'd full fad. Mllion't Parjdife LoJI.
You/»/.'littl» think that youranlt be the begin.-icr

Mi-reU Divim Dial.
Dryd.

iglitof him the genile knight.
i'

-

J'

god his fiftcr'icnvy knew.

And wiiat her aims and what her arts purfue. Dryd.
it

a

fulminer, French.]
To thunder.
I

perijuilite _/;/// at

Uonclt, by

vihxh

CM^noifulminate nor tonitruate word*

To puzzle intellects my ninth lap afi.>rds
Tia. Randolph,
No Lycophronian bulkins.
;

To make a loud noife or crack.

.

was in fulion wc cad into it a live coal,
which prcfently kindled it, and made it boil and
pretty
for
a
while: after which we calt in
flafli
anoihcr glowing coal, which made it fulminate
Whilft

All as a partridge plump, full-fed and fair.
Pope.
She form'd this image of well btxiieJ air.

it

Boyle.

alrelh.

Full-la'den. adj. [full&nd laden.'\ Laden
'till there can be no more added.

In damps one is called the fufFocating, and the
other i\\efulminaiingiitn^. /ioodtoard't Nat, Hiji,

were onfit that fo excellent a reward as the
Gofpel promifes Ihould rtoop down, like fruit upon
a full-laden bough, to be plucked by every idle and
TillofLn.
wanton hand.

To iffue out ecclcfiaftical cenfures.
7"o Fu'lminate. 'V, a. To throw out as

It

FuLL-SPRe'ad,

adj.

Vi^ixh full-fpread fails to run before the wind;

an objeft of terrour.
As excommunication is not greatly regarded here'
in England, Ziwo-^fulminated \ fo this conditulioa
Aylijfe,
is out of ufe among us in a great mcafure.

Full-su'mmed. adj.

[full

fulmittation , French,

from fulminate.]

Dryden.

1.

The act of thundering.

and fummed,'\

2.

Denunciations of cenfure.
'Vhzfulmiuati..ns from the v.itican were turned

king of birds iieltcd within his leaves, thick feathered, and Vdxth full-fumv.ed wings fattening his tuloiis
Kail and Weft; but n6w the eagle is become half
ilbtvel'i Vi.eal F^rejl.
naked.

cloth from its oil or greafc.
Fu'llace. //. /. [from /w//.]

Fu'lminatory.
from fulminate.]

trade is to cleaiife cloth.

The cbthler^ have put off
The fpinfters* ardcnffulleri^ v/c.ivcrs.

Sbak^/p.

His raiment became fhining, cxceetling white as
fnow; fo ai no fuller on earth can whiten them.
M.ir. ix. 3.

Fu'lness. n.f. [from/.//.]
The ftate of being liiled fo as to have no1

part vacant..
Your heave-offtring (hall be reckoned the fulnefs
Nutnb. xvui, 27.
of the wincprefs.
Deut.
Let the fca roar and thz fulnefs thereof,
To the houffrs I wilhed nothing more than-fafety.
King Cbarlet,
fulnejs, and freeJum.
.

.

2. The

ftaie

of abounding in. any qualify

good or bad.
:.

Complctencfs ; fuch as leaves nothing, to

1

Ix: defired.

n. f.

Your enjoyments are fo complete, I turn wifbes
into gratutaiions, and congratulating their fulnefs

a marl of a dofe texture, extremely foft and un£tuous to the touch ; when dry
is

is of a greyifh brown colour, in all degreea, troni
very pale to almoft black, and generally has .:
greenilh caft in it. The hn^^ fullers earth \zA\i^\n
Uill'i JWa'itiu Media.
cur own illand,
The fullers earth oi England very much exceed?;

.

[f.dmuieus, Latin;
I'hundering; ftriking.

adj.

horror.

The money

paid for fulling orcleanfing cloth.
Fu'ller. n. f. [fullo, Latin.] One whofe

Ayl'fff'n Parergon.

into ridicule.

The cedar llretched forth liis branches, and the

Fullers earth

.

Fu lmina'tion. ti. f.lfulminatio, Latin;.

Guttho'.e that 'gaind DifT gales laveeringgo,

Muft be at once rtfolv'd and ikilful too.

.

3.

[full and fpread.\

Spread to the utmoft extent.
flow cafy 'tis, when dcfliny proves kind,.

B'u'llers Earth,

ficatson.

'!]:«((

1.

faginated.

Full nineteen failors did the (hip convey,

He met hery»//, hut fullof «-arefulncfs.

fuhninant,

a noife like thunder.

fat;

A (hole of nineteen dolphins round her play. AddiJ. To FULL. f. a. [fullo, Latin.] To cleanfc
Direftiy.

French,
Ihunderiiig; making
\

r»FU'LMINATE. I'. ». [fulmiao, Latin.

2.
;

adj.

y«/w;>/affr, Latin]

Having

Fu LL-FED. adj. [full ?kndfed.'\ Sated

Addifon's Ovid,

I'mya//)' fatisfy'd.

Fu'lminant.

Complete in all its p.irts.

Through all the cnmpafs of the notci U ran.
The diapafon clofmgyi/// in man.
Drydtn.
3. Exactly.

vourfelf.

The goddefs cry'd
It is enough,

torrents raging cotirfe.

[full vnd tye.l
large prominent eyes.

are in" beftowing

have an end, endlefs thanks mull have their beginning in a ftate which bringeth the full and final
Hooker,
fatist'adion of all futh perpetual defires.
\ic fully pofTclfed ilie entire revelation he had received from God, and hal thoroughly digefted it.
Lbcke,

Who at enormous villainy turns pale.

Full-ey'ed. adj.

A

'

prefent

He who with bold Cratinus is infpii'd.
With zeal anrl equal indijjnation fir'd ;

having pawned a new fuit of cloaths and a _/«//Guardian.
^otramrdf wig for a fumof money.

which

come to be fully had in this
life; and therefore, when all things here

always, but never

Denhjtn.

txprcfs'd.
Miltun.
In the unity of place they are ful/ as fcnipulous
which many of their criticks limit to that very fpot
•f groutkd where the play is fuppofed to begin. Dryd.
modtif biufh the wears, not form'd by art

cf:V

ccafc hourly to Cue, graces

by the wind to the utmoft

And fteers againd it with ifull-iloiun fail. Dryden.
Full-bo'ttomed. adj. [full and iottam.]
Having a large bottom.
I was obliged to fit at home in my morning-gown,

without lack; without more

to be defired.
There are many graces for which we may not

My glories are paft danger ; thty'rcfull Itlo^vn :
Things, that are blaftcd, are but in the bud. D-nlj.
My full-ilaiun youth already fades apace ;
Dryden.
Of our fhort being 'tis the fhorteft fpace

O'er full-ear' d corn, or

Rel^endcnt all his Father manifelV

4.

By large hammers, like thofe ufed for paper and
Maniater,
fui.ingmills, they beat thcif hemp.

Full-blown, fl,^'.

He/i/Z/

.

higheft

extent.

A fpeedy pow'r to encounter you, my lord
my peril, thou no art.

its

I

The whole; the total.

I knowing all

timate any thing arrived at
ftate, or utmoft degree.

bloflbm.

Neither wiy inclines. Sbake/f. Ant. and Clnfatra.

J.

Full is much ufed in compofition to in-

Dryden.

^

mill

'

Scuib.

only wilh their coiiiinu;ince.

it

any yet dilco%-ercd abroad in goodncfs ; which is or.e
great reafon why ^e Englifh I'urpals all othrr tiations

JVoudivard.

in the woollen manufa^ure.

Fu'ller* ThifiU, or IVetd.

n. /. [dififacus.]

A plant.
Fu'llery. 9t. f. [from fuller,]

4.

Complttenefs from ^\^ coalition of many
p;irts.

The king fet for^vards to London, receiving t!ie
acclamatiuns and applaufes ol the people as he went
which indeed were true and unfeigned, asmishtwcll
appear in the very dcmondration and fuhtejs oi the
iiaci^n s Hi'':)y VII.
cry.
5. Completeiiefs; freeilom froiadcticiency.
;

In thy j.rrfci,..e i^fulre/i sr! yiy.

The place

where the trade of a fuller h exercifcd.
Fi;'llincmih.. n. f. [/«// and mill.] A

He is the iiilt pnrt of a biclled man,
1,'jIi

to be finilhcd by fuch as

Pf.fmi.
.

..

(lie

A-..d (he a t.iir divided excellence,
.f/:,rt/p.
V/hok fiilmfs of perlcfliun lies iu him.
6. Repletion;

,

.

.

.

ToFtr'MBLE. nj. a.

6. Repletion ; -fatiety.
and eiTe^ of
Jtu'ur/i, pride and luit, wantonnrli anH foftneft.
Tayhr't Rule of living hily.
'of rich liUes, nor the evil accidents

He fumbles up all in one loofe adieu.

Sbakfff. CymMmr.

afts aukwardly.

fwdling in the

Fu'mblingly. ad-v.

8. Struggling percurbatioa;

'

Fu'mbler.. »./. [itomfiimbii.l One who

and falfhood

Is worfc in kings than beggars.

•

For their light (lumbers gentlcy«m'</ away, thtmfot,

4. To be in a rage ; to be hot with anger.
When he knew his rival free'd and gone.
He fwells with wrath ; he makes outrageous moan

He frets, hi fumes, he flares, he (lamps the ground.
Tiie hollow tow'r with clamours ring around. Dryden,

Cimcfuiniling o'er the beads, in fuch an ajony
Dry. Sftanijh Fryar.
They told 'emfalfc for fear.

To Upfc '\x\fulnep

mind.

Sbake/feare.

His grcafy bald-pate choir

PJenty; wealth.

'Ts forer tHan ro lie for need ;

The flujfard fleep beneath its facred beam

To manage aukwarJly.

As many farcwels as be ftars in heav'n.
With dilkina breath and cor.fign'd kiffcs to thet«.

I actd not inlHnce in the hi^ltual infemixraMC

J.

FUN

F U M

F U M

\Jtova fumble, '\

A principal fruit of rrienJftiTp ii the elfe and dif«harge of inefulmfs oi the heart, which pailion! of
Bacon' iE£'.iyt.
all kinds dociufe siid induce.

firft

To perfume with odours in the fire.
irc.
&hzfum'J the temples with an od'rous flame,

or other unfavory things, will drive moles out of the

any volatile parts flying away.
Love is a fmoke rais'J with the fimie of fighs

eafc of thought and fmouthncfs cf

'from a natural
verfe ; whereas tliat of mod other kinds confiAs in
Pofe.
the-fircnsth and_^/a^- of both.

FU'I^OME. adj. [from.FulIe, Saxon, foul.]
Naufeous; ofFenfive.
He chat Winpfuljpmc objefls to my view.

,1.

'

3.

How half the youth of Europe are in arms,
"Yiow fulfipu' muft it be to l^ay behind.
Otvay.
And die of rank difeafes here at home ?

Rank

a,.

;

Exhalation from the ftomach.
Theyawfr of drink difcompofe and ftupify the
brains of a man overcharged with it.
South.
Plung'd in llolh we lie, and fnorefupine.
As lili'd \-.\\\\ fumes of undigeded wine.
Dryden.
Pow'r,like new vvine,does your weak brain furprize,

'grofs : to the fmell.

White fityrion is of a dainty fmell, if the plant
puts forth white Rowers only, and thofe not thin or
dry, they are commonly of rank miful/ome fmell.

And iKtaai fames in yourdifcourfes rife;
But time thefe yielding vapours will remove :
Mean while I'll tafte the (obcr joys of love. Dryden.

Bacon,

3. Luftful.

To difperfe in vapours.

heat of mind ; paffion.
;
The fumes of his paflion do really intoxicate and

confound his judging and difcerning faculty.

Shakrffearc.

4. Tending to obfcenity.

A certain epigram, which
peror,

is

is

with in our poet.

have met
Drydtn.

Fu'lsomely. ad-v. [from /uljome.] Nau-

Idle conceit; vain imagination.
Plato's great year would liavc fome effefl, not in

6.

feoufly ; rankly ; obfcenely.

Fu'isoMENESs. K. /. [from /ul/ome,']

renewing the ftate of like individuals;

Naufcoufnefs.

fume of ihofe, that conceive the celeftial bodies have

2.

Rank fmell.

more accurate influence upon thefe things below, than
they h.ive, but in grofs.

3. Obfcenity.
No decency is confidered, no /ul/omenr/t is omit-

no~venom is wanting,

fumes and fancies, and

To

Fume.

1;.

n,

vaporous.

A crafs and fumid exhalation is caufed from the
combat of the fulphur and

Filh thai fcr^e for the hotter countries, they ufed
at firft to fume, by hanging them upon long fticks
•nc by one, drying them with the I'moke of a fofl

FuMi'oiTY.w.y. [f[om/uf/u'd.] Smokinefs;
tendency to fmoke.

Fu'mace,

». /.

[froni

fumus,

fiitniger,

pour.
Would thou preferve thy famifh'd family,
With fragrant thytne the c\ty fumigate.

And break the waxen walls to fave the llate. Dryien,
To medicate or heal by vapours.
Fumiga'tion. ». f. [fumigatio, Latin;
fumigati'.n, Fr. from fumigate.'^
Scents raifed by fire.
1
2.

Fumigations, often repeated, arc very beneficial.
Arbutbnel,

V[y fumigation is to Venus, ju(l

The fouls ot rofes, and red coral's dull :
And, lart, to make myfumigation good,

[/umer, FctuCa ; f'u/no,

2. The application of medicines to the body

Drydm,

Hearthmoney.

/)/.'?.

An herb.
Urrt. French.]
Her fallow leas

Some, as (he fipp'd, ihtfuming liquor fann'd. I'cfe.
?.

The darnO, hemlock, and rank fumalory.
Sbakcjptarc'i HevryV
Doth root upon.
To FU'MBI.E. -v. n. [fummeUii, Dutch.]
t. To attempt any ching aukwardly or un-

Silenus lay,

Wliofeconftantcyps Uyfummg (0 his brain.
And always boil in each extended vein. RofcommeH.

We have
No anger in our eyes, no ftorm, no lightning:

Sb-ikiff.

;

A plant.

Why, he was met c\ en now.
As mad as the vext (ea (inging aloud,
Crown'd with rauky^m/Ver and furrow weeds. Shak,
VM'i,iO\3%.\ad.[fumcux-je, French; fro^l
Fu'my.
J
/"""•'ji Producing fumes.
From dice and wine th« youth rctir'd to rell,
And puflT'd ihefumy god from out his bread
:

Ev'n then he dreamt of drink and lucky play
More lucky had it lalled 'till the d.av.
Viyien,

Fun. It. f. [A low cant word.]

Sport;
high rnerriment; frolickfome delight.
Ooa't mind me, though, for all ray fun and jokes.
You binds may find us bloods good-natur'J folk^i

Our hate is fpent andy^m"// away in vaiiour.
Before our hands be at work. Ben Jonfon't Catiline.

iiave been fumblirtv^ half an hour for this excufc.
firydcn'i Spanijti iFryar.

Ihc kcr.

queftions.

Fu'miter. ». /

To.pafsaway in vapours.

3.

a friend to help you out ? .You would

Jowcr^ and fmilc ufon his Aogei'i r nd.

:

;

Keep his brainyi/m/»^. Shakeff. Am, and Cletfalr^.

Cudivortb^

3, To play childillily.
I fiw him yVW/f with the Oiccts, and play with

in a rage.
That which we move for our letter learning and
inl^rudlion fake, turneth unto anger and choler in
them they grow altogether out of quietncfs with it
they anfwer fumingty, that they ar« afliamed to
defile their pens witij making anfwer to fuch idle

To vapour; to yield exhalations, as by
Jle up the libertine in a field of feafls.

2. To puzzle; to ftrain in perplexity.
I

Fu'mingly. ad'U. [from_/W/.] Angrily;

heat.

gainly.
Our mechanick theifts will JvHjtlhe'r atoms never
once to have fumtlcd in ihefe their motions, nor 10
have produced any inept fyftem.

in fumes.

Before their father's throne. Milian's ParadifeLofi.
From thence Khefuming trail began to fpread,
Ar.d lambent glories daiic'd about her head. Dryden.
Strait hover round the fair her airy band;

Vu'matory. n. /. fumnria, Latin, fumt-

French.]

To fmoke; to perfume by fmoke or vx-

1.

nimeiifionlefs tliiougli heav'niy doors ; then clad
With iiicenfe, where the golden 3]urfum'd
By the great interceifor; came in fight

Latin,]

Diiff.

To FU'MIGATE. -v. ». [from fumus, Lat.

'Tis mixt with fparrows brains and pigeons blood.

Their pray'rs pafs'd

and continual Are, from which they purchafed the
name o\Jumad(^es.
Carrw.

and

Brozvn,

fpeak folids, a war with
Bacon.

to

To fmoke.

I .

iron with the acid

nitrous fpirits of iijuafrtis.

Latin.]

fi(h.

Sviift.

FU'MID. adj. \Jumidus, Latin.] Smoky

Bacon.

Spain is a mighty work.

Drydtn.

Fv M Apo. n. /. [fiimus, Latin.] A fmoked

Am not

A

To lay afide all that may feem to have a (hew of

as far as dulnefs can

fupply it.

pupils of

haunch of ven'fon made herfweat,
Unlefs it had the nghtfumetie.

for that is the

1.

ted,

troduced by cooks, and the
cooks, for (he ftink of meat.

South.

When Duncan is adeep, his two chamberlains
Will I with wine and wafl'elfo convince.
That memory, the warder of the brain.
Shall be a fume.
Shakefpenre's Macbeth.

afcribed to the em1

Mortimer,

Fu M e't. ». /. The dung of the deer,
FUME' TIE. n. /. [French.] A word in-

Any thing unfubftantial.

5.

more fuljome than any pafTagc

The heat will fume away moll of the fcent.

Rage

4.

-

He ftuck them up before ihtfulfimt ewes.

Mortimefm

ground.

3.

IVood'jiard,

tity.

With naufeous images my fancy fills,
And all goes down like oxymel of fquills. Rofcommon.

7

And olt before the facred altars came,
To pray (or him who was an empty name. Dryi. %
The fuming of the holes with brimitone, garlicky,

r

Beingpurg'd,afirefparklingin lovers eyes. Shakeff,
It were good to try the taking of fumci by pipes,
as they do in tobacco, or other things, to dry and
Bacon.
comfort.
In Winter, when the heat without is lefs, breath
flowing
fo
becomes
far condenfed as to be vilible,
out of the mouth in form of a fumr^ or craffer vapour; and may, by proper %'efiels, fet in a flrong
freezing mixture, be colledled in a coufiderable quan-

Cjrfxy-

fire.

2.

2. Vapour;

10. Force of found, fuch -as fills the ear;
vigour.
This fort of paftoral derivcsalmoft its whole beauty

(I,

Thofe that ferve for hot countries they ufed »f
to fume, by hanging them upon long flicks one
by one, and drying them with the fmoke of a f.ilt

In

Thus fighting fires a while themTclvet confume
Butftreight, like Turks, forc'd on to win or die.
They flrft lay tender bridges of Cat'yxfume,
And o'er the breach in unftuous vapours fly. Dtyi.

9. 1 argcnefs ; extent.
There wanted the fulnefs of a plot, and variety
of charadcrs to form it as it ought; and [^rhaps
fomething might have been added to the beauty of
DryJex.
the ftyle.

.

To fmoke; to dry in the fmoke.

1.

an aukward manner.
Fu M E. n. f, \famee French ; fumus, Latin.]
1. Sraoke.

'

To Fu ME. f

Their parts arc kept from _/»«iV;g away by iheit
anJ a'fo by the vaft weight and dcnnty of the
almofpheres incumbent Ufon them.
Cheyne.
The hrft frelh datvn then wak'd the gladdtn'd race.

More.

fixity,

Of uDcoriuptcJ owr^ nijr bluib'd to fee,

Fu'nctiok. ti. f,
1

.

{/.mllio, Latin.]

Difcharge ; performance^

The«

F U N

,.

Thrte i» hardly a greattr

difference

next heir, accordiijg to t\\tj'u>id.imenul\mi% of the
kingdom, as if the lift king tvere aftually d».id.

t!imgs thsn theje is between a reprt-fenting commoner
in the fanciion ot hispublick caliiiig, ami the Time
peit'oQ in

common lile.

Employment

X.

;

FUR

•FUN
between two

ofSce.

in philofophy, in relijior,

and in human lilc.
fVatte.

:

Such we find they are,

Prior.

tion ;
is

the/jtndamentalj of faith may deny Chrift damnable in refpeft of fuperitrudtures and conleiuenoes
that arife from them.
Scuth.
It

in

Siilliiig^ttl,

mental.]

As virtue is hutifundaKcnialh in the intellef>,
force of reafon, in the
palfions to a good end.

\cral parts of them well adapted 10 their particular
Btntley^i SermDrts,

As my e:*jte has been hiiherto cither toft upon
or Huifiuating \n jandi, it is now fixed in Tub.
jiddifon.

FU'NDAMENT.

{fundamentum,
/.
Latia.] The back part of the body.
b.

Fundame'.vtal. adj.

[fundamenlali! , La.
tin, from fundamtni.\ Serving for the
foundation ; that upon which the reft ia
built ; effential ;

accidental.

important ; not merely

(o be taken from the earth.
Raleigh.
You that will be lefs fearful than difcreet,

That love ihc /Mndumental part of ftatc,
More than you doubt the charge of 't.
Xhaiefli.
Others, when lliey were brought to allow the
throne vacant, thought the fuccefliaa IbouU bo to tb(

Vou J.

A ftink. A low word.

Funk. «. /.
Fi/'nneL.

n.

[i/ifundihultim,

f.

Latin J

whence/itftdiiie, futtdlt, funnei.\
1. An inverted hollow cone with a pipe

mouths; a tundifh.

Che-u',

If you pour a glut of water upon a hottle,- it receives little of it ; but with i funnel, anu bydegrees»

ftitution.

you (hall fill many of them.

to civil

focicty, but

Hen finftn.
Some the longy««tt(-/'r curious mouth eitteiidf
Through which ingciled. meats with eafe deftend.

hintlry.

Bla,:km.

The outward ear or aui iciila is made iioliow, and

[funus, Latin; fune.
French.]
1. The folemnization of a burial; the pay-

contradted by degrees, to draw the found inward, to
take in as much as may be of it, as we nk*.fimnrl
to pour liquor into any vclfcl.
Ray.

FU'NERAL. n. /.
railles,

ment of the lad honours

2.

to the dead;

Here, under leave of Brutus and the reft.
I to I'peak in CxUr's fwfra!.
Sbakrfp,
All things that we ordained feltiva).
Turn from their office to black funeral.
Sbaie/f.
He that had caft out many unburied, had none to
mourn for him, nor any Iolemnyu;T<'n;A, nor fopulchre with his fathers.
2 Afac. v. 10.
No widow at his funeral Ihall weep.
Sandyi.

FUR. It, f. [fiurture, French.]
1.

The pomp

or

proceflion
the dead ahc carried.

with

amcnt.
IXcenibci' muft be cxprefTed with a horrl^l*^l^
fearfol countenance ; as iifo at his

back a buiidlirof
holly, holding inyir mittens the lijn of Capricoui.

which

The \ongfut'rals blacken all the way.
Pofe.
You are ibmctimcs dclirous to ice i funeral piU
by in the Itreet.
3.

Piuc'jam on Oraveirr,
*Ti3 but drefling up a bird ot prey in his cap and
ftitr to m.ikc a judge of him.
L'£/2range.
And lordly gourwiv;,t up iii_/i/r.

S^i'i/'t.

Burial ; interment.
May he lind \\\l fureral

2.

when he' before hU day Ihall fall.
Dcnham.
Fu'neral. adj. Ufed at the ceremony of
interring the deatL
1' ih' fands,

This

Keep lhciry«r dry, uuboiinelted he runs,
.^nd bids what will uke .<ll.
Sb.ikcfp Kiiigl.far,

Let fuch honours

iitich anim.Us as feed upon ilelh iju^iity ir, fheoi.«
by fwallowing the hair nt fur ol ili-- bcilis they

Ani funeral rites, ai 10 his birth and virtues
Are du», be firil pcrfurm'd.
Dentam'i Sophy.
Thy hand o'er towns ihs fun'ral torch dil"(.l,ij;,

prey upon, ilie other by devouring Ibir.e part of Iha
feathers of the birds they gorge ihemfelves with.
/f./v on the Creation.

And torms a thoufand ills ten ihoufand ways.
Dryden.
3.

Any jiioifture exhaled to fuch a degree
as that the remainder Hicks on the part.

a funeral ; dark ; difmal.

Mclliiijks

But if his foul hath wing'd the deftin'd flight.

I

am not right in ev'ry p.irt;

1 feel a kind of trcmblinij at

Inhabitant of deep difailrons night,

ray he.itt;

My pulfe unequal, and mybrv-aih is ftro/ig

Homeward with pious fpced repal's the main,
Pope.

Fc'Nco'si rv. ». /. [from _/"«»f«'.] Unfolid
cxcrefccnce.

wherein the cubdrawn bear would

nigiit,

couch.

Ourinftruments to melancholy bells.

To the pale tiiidc funere.d rites orJuiii.

And whcc/.ing al.Hiin.i, loili 10 ftii
Su'ft.
Soft hair of bealls found in cold countries, where nature provides coats fuitabic
to the weather; hair in general.

The lion and the belly-pinched wolf

Our wedding dicir to a difuiteral fcalh Sbakcff.

FvKi'i.EAi. adf. [/«»cjv«, Latin.] Suiting

Skin with foft hair with which garments
are lined for warmtji, or covered fot. or-

-

2.

A pipe or paflage of commi;nication.
fowards the middle arc two hirgc /«»«/», bored
through the roof of the grotto, 10 kt in li^ht or
frelh air.
AjJijon.

obfequies.

Com;

Di\:7.

Fu'ngoi/s. adj. [from ftitigus.] Excrcfcent ; fpongy ; wanting firroncfs.

^

defcending from ir, through which liquors are poured into veflels with narrow

the

'

Until this can be agreed upon, one m.iin andyiwdament at cim!c of the moft grievous war is not like

A

a fibre.
FuNi'cuLAn. adj. {funiculairc. French,
from fuHu'.e.'] CoiifilHng of a fmall cord
or fibre.
;

Suif:,

Ykw^\ fuhdo, a bag,

Teas,

is

fmall cord ; a fmali ligature

The unlimited jmitT fXiCtifiindamentaltyin the
body of a people, the legiflators endeavour to JcpoCt in fuch hands as would pteferve the people.

Latin.]

Stock or bank of money.

that virtue

FU'NICLE. n. f. [funiculus, Latin.]

fundamentally neceflary to its very birth and con.

A

lie touches the palTions mor< delicately than Ovid,
and performs all this out of his own funi^ without
diving into the arts and fciences for a fupply,
Drjden.
Part muft be left, tfuitj when foes invade.
And partemploy'd to roll the wjtry tide. Dryden.
In preaching, no men fjccced better than thofc
•vbo trull entirely to the Hock tit fund of their own
reafon, advanced indeed, but not overlaid bv commerce with book;.
S'uift.

Arbutbnot on Diet.
This eminence is compofcd of little points, or
granula, called yi;»gKr, or proud flcfh.
.'iharf.

coadutt of our anions and

Religion.is not only ufeful

cither animal or Intel*

Stock; capital; that by which any expence is fupporti-d.

[from funda-

ad-v.

Effcntially ; originally.

fo perfpeiflively in the fancy ; fo

funBiont.

ftantial acres.

I'o

fome ceremonies, or mete fpcculative points.

Fundam'entallv.

5. Office of any particular part of the body.
The bodies of men, and other animals, are excellently well iitted for life and motion ; and Che fc-

2.

a very juft reproach, that there Oiould be

Sicift.

Sbakefpeare.

1,

is

much violence and hatred in religious matters among
men who agree m iWfuadametiialt, and only ditP-r

J'unflitns they ufc facerdoul gumcnts.

\fon(l,

important and eflential part which

the groundwork of the reft.

We propofe ihequeftion, whether thofe who hold

They ha»t feveral offices and prayers agaiiilt hre,
tempcth, and efpecially for the dead, in which

FuKD. »./.

the agarick from the

The furgeon ought to vary the diet as the fibres
lengthen too inuch, are too tiuid, and produce /«».
^ufes, or as they harden and produce callolities.

Pol>e.

Funda.mi'ntal. «. /. Leading propofi-

Hooker.

leftual.
Tears in his eyes, diflndlioD in his alpc^i
broken voice, and his whole funSiion luiting
Hhakjfetrt' i Hamlet.
With forms to his conceit,
Nature feems
of
heifclfi
weary
hcr/unShnt
Tn all
My race of glory run, and rate of (hame (
And 1 (hill (hortly be with them that relf. Miltoir.
Whaicve. warms the heart, or fills the head.
As the mind opens, and ntfunliiont fpread,
Invagination plies her dangVous arr.
And pours it all upon the peccant part.
PifeThough every human conllilution is mortHd, yet
arc their ditcafes coniitlent with the common JuneArbulhnol,
licnioihit.

as

larch- tree, and aariculx Judas from elder.

Who durft affert the julfer ancient caufe,

And here reftor'd mi' ifundamental laws.

3. Single aft of any office.
Without difference thofe /s^fliinrr cannot, in or-

Power; faculty:

ing to them ;

Yet fome there were among the founder few,
Of thofe who lefs prefum'd, and better knew,

Let not thefe indignities difcourage us froia ifl'erting the juft privileges and pre-eminence of our holy
Atltrbury,
funflion and character.

6.

Striftly a muft\-

room : a word ufed to exprefs fuch eicrefcences of flefh as grow out upon tho
lips of wounds, or any other excrefcence
from trees or plants not naturally belong-

as can controul

Their ills all built or. life, that fundamental ill.

Nor was it any policy, or obftinicy, or partiality

Follow fa<i\funakn j go, and batten on cold bits.

Sbt^rp's Surpery,

FVNGUS. n. f. [Latin.]

The fcrvile anions of ourwav'ring foul,
Cin Irijht, can alter, or can chiin the will

Sbakefp Meitfun fi,r Mfafure.

4. Trade; occupation.

more painful than the efcharottck medicines.

Swift*! Examiner.

7*he miairtry is not now bound to any one tribe
now none is Iccljded from \lail funSha of any deIVhiigifu.
cree, llate, or calling.
You have paid the hcav'ns yourJanSfio/r^ and the
other
your
calling.
debt
of
prtfocer tiie very

derly fort, be eiecuted.

lips

often

Gain fome general and y»»</.3)>jf/rra/ truths, both

Szu}ft,

of aHedion either to the men or theiryV^/fl/o/r, which
t^'"g Charles
filed mc.
This dooble fu)i3ia» of the goddefs gives a conCderable light and beauty to the ode which Horace
Addifan.
has addreil'ed to her.

employed to keep down the Jti^rgoH
that fpread upon the bone; but it is mucU

Tt id

Bcfides a filthyyi/r iijion my tongue.

J

DryJm.

To Fur. -v. a. [from the noim.]
I.

To line or cover with (l-Jns that have
foft hair.
Il'iw

mad

a

fiflit

it

w:is to

fee

rich '.iitucyM/'/'r.y with lambtkinsf

5

N

Dameii'. lil-.e
.Sidnrv.

Tt»ioujh

'

To cover with foft matter.

i.

FUR

FUR

FUR
Tlirmigh ttlfer'd deaths fmall rices Jo app«ar,
Sbakt/f.
Kobcs ini fun' J gowns hide all.
You are for dreams and flumbers, brother prielt
Soakeff>\
You y«r your gloves withreafons.

(kin. With forae likenefs to bran.

Fu Ri- V

V

With clots of ropy gore.

The white lovely dove
Doth on her wing her utmoft fwiftnefs prove,
finding the gripe of faulcon fierce nox fur. Sidney.

Fur-wrought, adj. [fur and 'wrought.']
Made of fur.

A bad word.

Huiky; branny; fcaly.
Latin.]
1.

No man did ever think the hurtful aftions of
men and innocents to be punUhable.
Honker,

2.

Raging; violent; tranfported by paiTion
beyond reafon.

Who can be wife, amazM, temp'rate and furious.
No man.

Loyal and neutral in a moment ?

Shakeff, Macieti.

To be furiout.
Is to be frighted out of fear ;

and in that mood.

The dove will peck the eftridge.

Shakefp,
Noife, other than the found of dance or fong.
Torment, and loud lament, xa\ furiout rage.

Milton,
3. Violent ;

impetuoufly agitated.

With clamour thence the rapid currents drive,
Towards (he retreating fea their furious

tide.

Silent along the mazy margin ftray,

Milton.

And willi thtfur-vn-ougii fly delude the prey.
Gay's Pafi.

Fura'cious. adj. \furax, Lat.] Thievilh;
Dia.

inclined to fteal.

Fura'city. n, f.

[from y»r<7jr,

Latin.]

Difpofition to theft ; thievilhnefs.
Fo'rbelow. ». /.
piece of fluff plaited
and puckered together, either below or

A

above,

on the petticoats or gowns of

This, like a great many other
words, is the child of mere caprice.
Tre-v. Dia.
Viy, oft in dreanis invention we beftow

women.

Pope.
To change a flounce, or add ifurbelovj.
yi Fu'rbelow. -v. a. [from the noun.]
.

To adorn with ornamental appendages of
When ai^uments too fiercely glare.
Axiifurbelcnv the plain difcourfe.
Prior.
She was flounced zni furltel6V}ed \ every ribbon
was crinkled and eveiy jart of her garments in curl.

Addifn.
7»Fu'rbish. •«. a. [fourbir, French.] To
burnifh ; to poliih ; to rub to brightnefs.
It may enter Mowbray's waxen coat,
Atiifuriijb new the name of John o'Gaunt.
Shahff. Rich. II.
Furhifh the fpean, and put on the brigandincs.
7n-. xlvi. 4.
Some others v.hofurbIfh up and reprint his old
trrours, hold that the fuSiirings of the damned are

rot to be, in a ftrift fenfe, eternal ; but that, after
(hall be a general
gaoUdeiiveiy of the fouls in prifon, and (bat not a
lanher execution, but a final relealc.
South,

a certain period of time, there

As after Numa'g peaceful reign,

And wrath, he to him \tifi furioujly.

Fa. Siu,

». f.
[from furious,']
Frenzy ; madnefs ; tranfport of paflion.
T£.FuRL.a». <7. [_/)-^r, French.] Todraw
up ; to contrafl.

Inferior minillcrs, for M;»rs repair

f.

Ifourliffeur,

French;

One who polifhes any

thing.

Furca'tion.»./.
the

[j^arf/7.

Latin. ] Forki-

of (hooting two ways
like the blades of a fork.
ftate

When (lags grow old they grow \tS% branched,
and firrt lofe their brow-antlcis, or Xovitfifurraiians
next the head.

Urovin

FV'RFUR. n. f. [Latin.] Hulk or chafFJ
fcQtf or daadriflf, that grows

to fit with appendages.
Something deeper.

Coming within a fewyVr/ow^jof the temple, they
Addifon.

A

Dutch.]

temporary difmiflion from military fervice ; a licence given to a foldler to be

Bacon's Apofhth.

We were led into another great room, furnijhed
with old infcriptions.

To equip

5.

Brutus and Cato might difcharge their fouls,

Fu'rmenty. m. f. [More properly /r«Tnenty, oxfrumety oifrumen turn, Latin.]

Fu'rnisher. n, f. [four/tifiar, French;
from furnifh.] One who fupplies or fits
out.

Fu'rnitore.

n. f. [fiurniture, French;
from furnijh,]
goods put in ahoufe for ufe
1. Moveables
;

or ornament.
No man can tranfport his large retinue, hisfump-

7ujer.

upon the

tuou3 fare,
world.

clofed fireplace.

The kings of Spain have erected divers furnaces
trying and fining 01 their gold.

Abbot.

Whofo falleth not down and worihippeth, (liall
the fame hour be caft into the midft of a burning
fiery furnace,

Dan.

A dungeon horrible, on all fidei arouod,
As one great /«ra«f, flam'd,

Milton,

out for any under-

To decorate; to fupply with ornamental
houfehold fluff.
The wounded arm vioviiAfurniJJ:) all their rooms.
And bleed for ever fcatlet in the looms.
Halifax.

The feed-cake, the paflies, and furmenty pot.

Heat not t furnace for your foe fo hot
That it may (inge yourfelf. Shakeff. HemyWW.
TTie fining pot is for CIver and the furnace for
gold.
Prov,
We have ^{a furnaces of great diverfilies, that
keep great diverfiiy of heats.
Bacon.

Addifon on Italy,
fit

Will your lordftiip lend me a thoufand pounds to
furnijh me ?
Skakcfp. Henry IV.
Ideas, forms, and intellects.
Have furnijh'd out three dilTrent feiSs.
Prior.
Doubtlcfs the man Jefus Chrill U furnijhed with
fupcrior powers to all the angels in heaven, becauli;
he is employed in fupeiior work.
fVatts,

And give them furh'a for another world
But we, like fentries, are oblig'd to fland
In llarlefs nights, and wait th' appointed hour.
Dryden,

to

;

taking.

abfent.

forges, lor the

are but furni/hfngr.

Shakefpeare.
Plato entertained fome of his friends at dinner,
and had in the chaijaber a bed or couch, neatly
and cdftly furnifhcd, Diogenes came in, and got
up upon the bed, and trampled it, faying, |
trample upon the pride of Plato.
Plato mildly
anfwered. But with greater pride, Disgcnes.

4.

If a man ftand in the middle of a field and fpeak
aloud, he (hall be heard a furlong in a round and
that in articulate founds.
Bacon.

and

;

Whereof perchance thele

Fu'rnace. n, f. [/ar«w, Latin.] An inDiyden.

71.

To fit up

Creech.

mile.

[-verlof,

Addifn.

tances.

3.

When fortune fends a ftormy wind.

Remember, wife, therefore, though I do it not.
Dryden.

And fend him foith again, w'nh furiifi'd ttmu

from furbifh.^

To give; to fupply.

Then (hew a brare and prefent mind ;
And when with too indulgent gales

palfed through a very thick grove.

her from her father's hou(e;

Thefe fimple ideas, the materbls of all our
knowledge, are fuggefted mi furnifbed to the minij
only by thefe two ways, fenfation and refleflion.
Locke,
It is not the ftate, but a compact among private
perfons that hath furnijhed out thefe feveral remit-

and this carries them on furioujly to that which of

Fu'riousness.

(ball take

Sbakefpetre,
His training fuch.
That he leas furtiifh and Inflruft great teachers.
And never feek for aid out'of himfeif.
Shake/,
Thou taAtfurnifh him liberally out of thy flock,
Deut. XV.
Come, thou ftranger, and fum'{fh a table, and
feed me of that thou haft ready.
Eccitf,
Auria, having driven the Turks from Corcne,
both by fea and land, furn'fhtd the city with corn,
Knolles's Hijlory,
wine, victual, and powder.
(hall not need to heap up in(tances ;
1
every
one's reading and converfation will fufliciently
furnifh him, if he wants to be better Itored.
Locke,

They obierve countenance to attend the practice
South,
themfelves they are inclined.
She heard not half, iofurioufly (he flies ;
Fear gave her wings.
Dryden,

I

What gold and jewels the \% furnifh'd with.

grief

Food mad« by boiling wheat in milk.

Hlf broken a«Ic-trcr, and blunted war

Fu'rbuhfr.

How

Which when his brother faw, fraught with great

,

The martial Ancus did the fceptrc wield ;
I'urbifh'd the nifty fword again,
Refum'd the long-forgotten Ihicld,
And led the Lilins to the dully field.

certain purpofe.
She hath direfled

2.

violently; vehemently.

Fu'rlough. ». /

Shakeff. Cymlelint.

To fupply with what is neceflary to 3

1

Fu'ri.onc. n. f. [paplanj, Saxon.] A
meafure of length ; the eighth part of a

You calm them with a milder air
To break their points, you turn their force,

nefs ;

F'uRiousLV. fli/i;. \(tom furious.'] Madly;

She fwells too much, ihenfurl thy fails.

drefs.

He furnaces
The thick (igns from him.

To FU'RNISH. 1;. a. [fournir, French.]

Mad; phrenetick.

furiout

[from the noun.]

a.

To throw out as fparks from a furnace.

a'c i.ovi. adj. [/ur/ioar^a*, Latin.]

Addifon.

Fur. ai'v. [It is now commonly written
At a diftance.
_/ar,]

To Fc'rnacs. f.

FU'RIOUS. adj. ifurieux, French -.furiofus,

To make lampblaclc, take a torch and hold it
under the bottom of a latten bafon ; andi as it
groweth to \>t furred and black withini llrikc it with
Ptaebam.
> feather into fome (hell.
Three filiers, mourning for their brother's lofs,
Their bodies hid in bark, tnifurr'd with mofs.
Drydin.
Their firying blood compels to irrigate
Piilift.
Their dry/xir tongues.
A dungeon wide and horrible ; the walls
On all (licsfurr'd with mouldy damps, and hung

^'miy.

and

his rich furniture into another

South.

There are many noble palaces
furniture is not very rich,

in Venice ; their

if we except the piflures.

Addifon,

Appendages.

2.

By a general conflagration mankind (hall be deftroyed,

with the form and all the furniture of the

earth.

3.

Tiilalfon,

Equipage; embellifhments; decorations.
Young Clarion, with vauntful luftyhed.
After his guife did caft abroad to fare.

And thereto 'gaii hhfurnitures prepare.
Spenfer,
The duke is coming fee the barge be ready.
And fit it with fuch furniture as fuiis
The grcatnelii of his perfon. SbakfJ'f, HemjWW.
:

Tb»

PUR

FUR

The (round muft be of a mixt drown, and latje Tfl Fc'rtbbr.
tnough,
for the hotie's/nrnilure muft be of very fen-

fible coloun.

pon'Spian,

Dryden.

,

A dealer in

Fd'rkier. n. J. ffrom/ar.]

To put onward

Saxon.]

Things thus fet in ord;r,

Could

Wheat muft be fowed above /tfrraw before Mi-

fond

fuperftition

;

With many /iH-ro'ttT fince I faw it firft

cils, fathers, hiftories,

Saxon.]

the laws and pradtices of all

churches affori.

To cut in fbrrows.

Hooker.

For gain and work, and fuccefs in his affairs,
he feeketh/urMmtmrof him that hath no manner
of power.

MHlon.

If men were minded to live righteoufly, to
believe a God would be no hindrance or
prejudice to
anyfuch defign, but very much for the advance-

Dryden.

There {o the ftiips \.\\ixfurr(rw out their way;
Yea, there of whales enormous fighu we fee.

ment and furtherance of it.

advancer.
;
That earneft favourer zni furtherer o( God's true
that faithful fervitor to

Leads forth his furry troopt to war.

Moreover;

FeJton.

Not arm'd with honu of arbitrary might.

tuRTIVE.
Latin.]

forlhejl, pon«ep, Saxon. Farther is ofed
by Sir 'Thomas Mart. See Forth and

<:«/«/,

_

yjhitfuriber need have we of wltneffet.

Mat. xxvi. 6c.
Satan bad jonmey'd on, penlive and Oow
Bat fur tier wiy found none, fo thick intwin'd,
Ai one conlinu'd brake, the undergrowth
,

;

approaching to madnefs.
do oppofe my patience to hhfury ; and am arm'd
To fufter with a quictncfs of fpirit
The very tyranny and rage of his.
Shakefp.
He haih given me to know the natures of living
creatures, and the furies of wild hearts.

MUtan.

Milton.

may meet

Some wand'ring fpirii, from him to draw

-

^!/<^- »'i- »0.
,
/.
,
.
.
3. fcntnuJiafm; exaltation of fancy.
Taking up the lute, her wit began to be with

imiK fury infpircdj and her voice would,

V/hit furiber would be learn'd.

beloved an occafion, fecond her wir.

Afihtn.

A fybil, that had number'd in the world

3. farther has in fome fort the force of a
fuWlantive in the phrafc no further,
I.et this appeafe

Thy doubt, fince human reach Via furiber knows.

To a

greater diftance.
Rood in a narrow plwc,

went further, and

H»mb,i^u 2.

in fo

Sidney.

Dryden* t /En.

4.
the lord

a

The fun to courfe two hundred compafles.
In her prophetick/Kij- few'd the work.
Slxkfp,
Greater than human kind (he fcem'd to look.
And with an accent more than mortal fpoke;
Her rtaring eyes with fparkling/ai^jr roll.
When all the god came ruihing on her foul.

for

nothing further.

And the angel of

tion of the next, and that by the motion of the
fufee, and that by the motion of the fpring : the
whole frame of the watch carries a reafonableneft
in it, the pa(rive imprclTian of the intclleftual idea

that was in the artilt.

2.

Hale.

A firelock [iiomfuftl, French]; a fmall
neat mufquet.
written y«/f/.

This

is

more properly

Fu« E of a bomb or ^ranado fliell, is that
which makes the whole powder or compofition in the Ihell lake fire,

to do the

defigned

execution.
'Tis
ufually a
wooden pipe or tap filled with wildfire,
or fome fuch matter; and is intendetl
to bum no longer than is the time of the
motion of the bomb from the mouth of
the mortar to the place where it is to fall,

which time Anderfon makes twentyfeven feconds.

Harris.

I

^
Their eameft
eyes they fix'd, imagining
For one forbidden tree a multitude
Now ru'n, to work them funier woe or (hame.

[from /»r/*.]

Wi/eman^

Fu'r y. »./. [funr, Latin ;furtur, French,]
1. Madnefs.
2. Rage; paffion of anger tumult of mind

Of Ihrubs and tangling buthes had perplcx'd
All path of man or beaft that pafs'd that way.

ad-v.

[furettde, Yu furunI^tin.] Abife; an angry puftule.

A furuncle is in itj beginning round, hard, and
inflamed ; and as it incrcafeth, it rifeth up
with
an acute head, and foraetimes a puftule and then
j
it is moie infiamed and painful,
when it arrives
at iu ftate, which is about the eighth or ninth day.

At a greater diftance.
Beyond this.

u'rther.

Prior.

,

Fu'roncle. »./.

be referred to this word.]

.

fl,^
[furti've, Yt. furlivw,
Stolen ; gotten by theft.

All fervants to that fource of light, the fun
?
_,

Farther, of which the examples are to

.

Shakeffeare.

Or do they, as yourfchemes, 1 think, have (hown,
Dixtfurtrve beams and glory not their own.

FU'RTHER. aJj. [from for/h, not from

.

cord or chain of a clock or watch.

:

,

Or claws to feiie their/srryf fpoils in fight.

_

To melt; to put into fufion; to liquify

by heat.
To Fuse. 'v. n. To be melted ; to be cap«.
ble of being liquified by heat.
Fu'see. n. f. [ffeau, French.]
1. The cone rotind which is wound the
The reafon of the motion of the balance is bf
the motion of the next wheel, and that by the md-

furthermore,
I pray you, (hew my youth old
Shylock's houfe.

far, as is commonly imagined; forth,
further, furtheft, corrupted from foriher,

Tyff'r.

,

[fnfcui, Latin.] T?c
aft of darkening or obfcuriwg.
Dt\fl.
To FUSE. -v. a. [fundo, fufum, Latin.]

befides.

And fo, I pray you, tell him

make, iwake.
DryJtn,

,

Foscation, ». /.

This ring I do accept moft thankfully.

And Winter from thy /iirry mantle (bake.

I

prince and

his

tu'RTHERMORE, aJf. [further and mort.]

Z, Confiding of fur.

_,

Pro-

moter
religion,

From Volgar's banks th' imperious Ciar

,

We may know.
And when to reap the grain, and when to fow.
Or when to fell the /j,ra;«.
Dryden's Firgit.
¥v Rzy. ad/, [from furze.] Overgrown
with furze ; full of gorfe.
Wide through the/jrr»y field their rout they take,

TiUntfon.

Fu'rtherer. ». /. \itom further. \

ffollon.

Fc'rry. aJj. [from /ur.]
I. Covered with fur; drefled in fur.

_

For fcwel, there groweth great ftore
of furae,
of which the (hrubby fort is called tame,
and the
better grown French.
Carew,

Their bleeding bofoms force the thorny brake.

Sbakr/p. Henry VI.

Siickliitg,

The billowj fall, while Neptune lays his mace
.

Miller,

Carry out gravel to fill up a hole.

Both timber and furxin, the turf and (he cole.

Intreat you to your voalti furtherance f

On the rough fea, and fmooihs xa/inrova'd face.

Stretch out thy laiy limbs,

H^ktr.

Cannot my body, nor Wood facrifice,

No briny tear has pirrmu'd her fmooth check.

,

three or four kidney-fliaped feeds.

». /.

Our diligence muft fearch out all helps and
furiherances of diredion, which fcriptures, coun-

Sbakeffteare.

^0 Fu'rrow. t\ a, [from the noun; frypian,

To make by cutting.

The whole plant is very thorny : the flower*,
which are of the pea-bloom kind, are difpofed
in
which are fucceeded by ftioit
comprelTed pods, in each of which
are contained
Ihort thick fpikes,

only for the furtherance of their Wade and
private

Crown'd with rank fumiter, and furmu-iuetdt

To

Lat.] Gorfe; gofs.

Promotion ;
The Gauls learned them firft, and ufej them

A weed that grows in furrowed land.

While the ploughman near at hand,
Whiiiles o'er xhzfurrov'd land.
divide in long hollows.
a.

/•

[from further.}
advancement ; help.

i

Addifon on Italy.

FTTK-r w.
r
o
I'URZ.
/. [pipr, Saxon; genif.a fpinofa

Hooier.

Fv'rtherakce.

Fu'rrOW-weed. ». /. [furrow zaA rajeed.]

_,

Tu^tr.
have furthered fo

Grant not, O Lord, the defires of the wicked
further not his wicked device.
ff, cxl. 8.
This binds thee then to yVr/irt- my defign,
As I am bound by vow to further thine. Dryden.

Any long trench or hollow as a wrinkle.
My lord
though time hasplow'd that face
Yet I'm too well acquainted with (he ground quite
to forge t t,
Dryd. and Lee' i Oedifu r.

their

!»*"•

it is,

1.

my foul.
ShakiJ%,
It was the moft proper
place for tifury to make
herexit; and I believe every trader's
imagination
IS plealcd,
when he fees the angry goddcfs thus
linking in a tempeft, and plunging
herfelf into hell,
amidtt fuch a (ccne of horror and
confufion.

in (juiet and reft,

great attempts, without the mixture of a true
perfuafion concerning the irrefiftible force of divine

chaelmas.
Morlimcr.
Then ploughs for feed the UwUXfurrvai broke.
And oxen labour'd firft beneath the yoke. Dryden.

3..

Is as a fury to torment

;

ShiU funier thy harvett, and pleafure thee beft.

reception of feed.

3.

Tht light of any of the houfe of York,

to aflift ; to help.

furs.

I .

F U S

[from the adverb;

to forward ; to promote ; to countenance;

Fu'rrow. n. f. [paph, Saxon.]
1. A fmall trench made by the plow for the

2.

a.

-v.

[From

furia,

Latin.]

One of

the

deities of vengeance, and thence a ftormy,

turbulent, violent, raging woman.

Fu'see. Track of a buck.
Ainfvjorth.
Fu'siBLE. adj. [from/tt/J.] Capable of
being melted ; capable of being made
liquid by hear.
Colours afforded by mctajline bodies, either col.
liquate with, or otherwife penetrate into other bo.
dies, efpeciallyyiiZ/i/f ones.
Boyle.

FustBi't-iTV. n, f. [from fuftblt.'] Capacity of being melted ; quality of grow,
ing liquid by heat.
The ancients obferving In that material a kind
of mctallical nature, or at Icalt a fujiliility, feein
to have refolved it into a nobler ufe.
IVoltcn's ArchlleEtuit.
The bodies of moft ufe, that are fought for out of
the depths of the earth, are the metals which are
diftiruuifhed from other bodies by their weight,
fujitillly, and malleablenefs.
Locke.

Fv'iiL.adj. [fuftle, French; fufilis, Latin.]
2
I Capable
5

N

FU S
X. Capable of

being melted; liqulfiabk by

2.

heat.

Some, kfs (kijful, fancy tliefe fcapi that occur m

jnoft of ihe laiger Goihick buildingj of England

are

and will have if, that they are a kind of
iFoodward.
/«f/ marble.
•riifieial i

Running by the force of heat.

3.

The li<juid ore he drain'd
Into fit molds prepar'd ; from which he form'd

ihen.what might elfe be wrought
Millon's Partdife Lojl.
/V/f//, orgrav'n iqmelal.
Firft hitownrools:

Perpetual flames,

O'erCind^nd alhes, and the ftubbom flint.

iMI fea.

Prevailing, turn into

Pbilifs.

Fu'siL. n.f. [fii/il, French.]
1. A firelock''; a fmall neat mufquet.
Latin.]
heraldry; from fufus,
2. [In

Something like a fpindle.

Until the /»/?/<»« lIufT be fpent.
fJudlirat.
And then thet fall to th" argument.
Virgil, if ht could have feen the firft vtrfes of
Statius
in his
thought
mad
have
would
the Sylvar,
fiiftian defcription of the ftatue on the brazen horfe.

To Fu'sTiGATE.

rian :

[fi'Jiign,

[from

Hcflor Ihall have a great catch, If he knock out
either of your brains : he were as good crack 3/u/ly
Shakt/^^^te.
nut with no kernel.
The fiijy plebeians hate thine honours, ^hakj
The large Achilles, at this/»/v ftuff.
From his deep cheft laughs out a loud applaufe.

I.

mouldy; to fmell ill.

FU'STIAN. ». /. [futaine, French ; from
fujle, a

tree,

becaufe cotton growi.on"'

trees.]

A kind of cloth madet)f linen and cot-

1.

ton, and perhaps now of cotton only.
Is fupper ready,

ving-men

in

their

the

houfe Irimm'il,

new fvjlian and

[futile,

A high fwelling kind of wrltini? made
up of heterogeneous parts, or of words
and ideas ill .-liTociated bombaft.
Nor will you raife in me combuftian,
;

By dim of high heroick fu^iun.

Hudi'irai.'

VihufiiJliJi have I heard thcfe gentlemen find
cmt in Mr. Cowley's odes! In general, I will fay,
that nothing can appear more beautiful to me than
the ftrcngth of thofe images which they condemn.
Dryden.
FuJIian is thouehts and words ill fortcd, and
DryJrn,
without the Iralt reUtion to each other.
Chance thoughts, vvhen govern'd by the clore»
Smith,
Ofl fife \x> JuJiinK, or defceod to pfofe.

Ft-'tTiAN. udj. [ftom the nouu.]

futurity, that L had your lordlhip for my patron.
Sviifi,

Ev^nttocomc

2.

All /«/»'("//« are naked befoie

that All-feeing;-

This, great Amphiarus, lay hid from tfiee,

Talkative; loquacious.

Bacon..

z. Trifling; worthlefs;

Fu T

i' L I

T Y. n. /.

of no weight.

[futiltie^ French ; from

fuiile.1

humour.
2. Ttiflingncfi ;

L'Ejfran^.

want of weight ;. want of

folidity.
Trifling y»(/V/y( appears in their ligns of the 1:0-

diack, and tlieir mutual relations and afpe^s.
btnt'.ty,

Fu'ttocks.

». /.

[corrupted from foot

hooks. Skinmr.] The lower tjiljbers that
hold the (liip together.
FU'TURE. aJJ. [fiiturtis, iMin ;. fular,
French.] That which will be hereafter;
to come : as, the future ftate.

Glory they fung to the moft High

!

good will

To future men, and in their dwcUings peace.
Milton.

He fows the teeth at Pallas's command,
And flings ihtfiiture people from his hand.

Addifin' s Ovid.

Fu'ture. n. f. [from the
Time to come; fomcwhat
hereafter.

btlities,

which never commence into a futuiity\

adjeftive.J

to

happen

it

requiring fuch a tree, fedate and. intent mind, as
it may be,, is- no where found but among the plaGla/fuillc't Sceffii.

tonical ideas.

1. Talkativencfs; loquacity.
Tills fable does not ftrike fo much at the fittWiiy
of women, as at the incontinent levity of a prying

their white

Sbakt/ftare.

ftockings ?

2.

the fer-

Nor purios'd merit in futurity.
Can ranfom me.
Sbakeffiare'tOthcUt.
I will contrive fome way 19 make It known tor

Thou fkill'd in fate and iaxV. futurity.
Ptpe^
3. The ftate of being to be ; futurition.
It may be well reckoned among the bare pofii*

adj.

duty to conceal.

[From /jifie, French.] A ftrong fmell,
as that of^a mouldy barrel.
To Fust. -v. ». [from the noua.] To grow
2.

;:

Oar/ali/e pcrfaii, that maketh it his glory to
tell, will do more hurt than many that know it their

Latin.]

[/"/', French.]

S^utlk

Futu'rity. w. /, [from /K/»n-i]
Time to come events to come.
Not my fervice paft, nor prefent forrows.

Fttnch ^ futilis,

FU'TILE.

The trunk or body of a column.

1.

whether ever there fliould be fuch a thing or na >

Eye,, tlie light of which is no more Kindred by
diltanoe of time than the fight of an angel can bedetermined by diftance of place.
South.,

End as it befits your flation

FUS1\ ft./.

of poffibiliiies, and hang fo loofe in refpeS of its
fuiuriilon, as to leave the event in an eijual poifc,

mouldy.

Come to ufe and application ;
Sv/ifi.

Is it imaginable, that the great means of «he
world's redemption fliould reft only in the number

1

lU-fmelling;

Shukffpeaye,

fubmit, and anfwer thus.

the condition of being come to pafs hereafter.

Slale/f.

I'll tickle your cataftrpphe.

;

I

•

A

nefs; (link.

A tu-

prefciencet ii

ftate of being to be ;

a

FusTV. ai/J, [from fiift.]

it is

Futuri'tion. w. / [from /«^«rrf.] The

Dia.

/«/?)'.]

as

not the caufe of any thing futurely fuccceding
neither doth God's^aforeknowiedge impole any necellity, or bind.
Raleigh,

Latin.]

Fu'sTisfss. »./. [from /«/?)•.] Mouldi-

Metals in fujon do not flame for wait of a cool whicli fumes copioully,
Nnvitu's Oft.

Nor with fenatcs keep a/V/i ;

to come.
This prefcience of Cod,

A

with heat.

Fuss. ». /. [A low cant word.]
mult a buftle.

Fu'turely, ath, [{rom fu/ure^ Intio^e

ftinkard; a fcoundrel.
low
word ufed by Shakcfpeare only.
Away, youfcuUion, you ram pall ian, loufujlilafellow;

Prat/jam.

COS fume, except fpelter,
and thereby flames.

a.

Fustila'rian. n.f.

mid4''>

Fu'siLiER. ». /. [from /«//.] A foldier
armed with a fufil; a mufketcer.
Fu'sioN. a./. [/u)to, Latin ; /tt/?off, Fr.
1. The aft of melting.
2, The (late of being melted, or of runniag

'V.

To beat with a ftick; to cane.

FiifiU muttbe made long, and fmall in the
MonUgue, argent thrce/uji/s
icffe gules.

power, either is dilabled for the future, or elfe
checks at any vigoiout undertaking ever after,
Lecie,

Dryden' t Dufrrfm>y.

Fu'sTic, n.f. A fort of wood brought
from the Weft- Indies, ufed in dying of
Did.
cloth.

.

This ign'rant prefent time ! and 1 feel now
TiM future in the inllant. Sbakefpeiri't Macheth,
The mind, once Jaded by an attempt above it*

ridi-

When men argue, th' greatell part
O' th" conteft falls on terms of art,

in tlie ancient coat of
ill

TliyleflfeBiiavetranfporteJfnttli^SttJ

Maile of fuftian.
Swelling; unnaturally pompons;
Ufedofftilc.
cnloufly tumid.

1

To

FUZZ. 'V. n. [without etymology.]
To fly out, in finall particles.

A

Fu'zzCALL.

K. /. [ftzz and ball.']
kind of fungus which, when preffed,.
burfts and fcatters dutt in -the eyes.
Fy. imerj. [fy, French and Flemitb; ipHv,
Greek; faA, Lat.] A word of blame
and difapprobation.
And fji on fortune, mine avowed foe,

Whofe wrathful wreaks themfclves do now a!Iiiy.
,

Py,

my lord ,fy'.

^t^nfer.

a foldier, and afraid ?

need we fear who knows
our power to account?

it,

What

when none can

call

Hbakefpeare.

Sbakeffeate.
A bawd, fir, fy upon him !
But j5'> my wand'ring mufe, how-thou do'ft llray !
Miltotii
Expeflance calls thee now another way.
Nay, fit, what mean you in this open place ?
Unlund me, or, 1 fwear, I'll fcratch your face :
Ixt go, for Ihame j you make me maj for fpite
My mouth's my own; and if you kifs, I'll bite.
:

J)ryden.

Fy, madani,hectitd, wemuflbe paft all ihefc
gaities.

T*i/er^

G.

G.
GAB

GAD

GHas

two founds, one from Ae
Greek r, and the Latin, which is

called that of the hard G, becanfc
formed by a prelTure foraewhat hard
of the forepart of the tongue 'againft the
upper gum. This found G retains be-

and tobacco.

GAinON,

His battery was defended
and calks tilled with fand.

gim, gibbtt.

as,

•way

as

;

Before », at the

the French,

in

from which

thefe words are commonly derived
benine, maline, cindine.

ginally from goad,

gable,

A fly

cattle

makes

building, without ;ai/e ends, which arc very heavy,

that fwimmeth upon the top of the water, and is inoft
about ponds.
Bacon's N.ii. Hiji,
Light fly his (lumbers, if perchance a flight
gadjiics
rallcii on the herd.
Of angry
Tlxmpfom

[go'val,

Wellh ;

Gaff. n.f. A harpoon or large hook.
Ainfiuorth.

and other parts, fome in bars, and fome in gads ;
and therefore called Flemilh i\eel, and fometimcs

GA'sARDinc. v./.

A coarfe frock

;

[gavardina, Italian.]

'

You call me mifbclierer, cut-throat dog.

And fpit upon my Jcwilh gaiurtHjie,
The knight did Ihait fubmit,
And laid his weapons at her feet

Shakef,

Next he difrob'd httgaiarjine.
And wiih it did himrdi rcfign,

HuJiirat.

ToGa'bble. i-.n, [gtu>bare;\t»V\aa;gah-

I will go get a leaf ut brafs.
And with a guduf lied will write thefe words.

To Gad. t. «. [Derived by Skinner from
gadjly ; by Junius from gadanu, Wellh, to
forfake ; thought by others only the preterite of the old word ajaan, to go.^
To
ramble about without any fetUed purpofe ; to rove loofely and idly.

How now, my hcadffarong, where have you been
gadding t
1

To make an inarticulate nolle.

learnt me to repetit.

&bakefp.

liberty 10 ^a</ abroad.

Shew thine own meaning, but would '11 gahble lilte
A thing molV biutilh, 1 cnJowM thy purooCes
With words that made ihem known.
Sbtkrfpearc,
Flocks of fowl, thai when ilie icmpeft roar,
With their hoarTe gaii/lrtgfaV. the fileot (hoar.

Ha« you no wit, manncrj, iior honcity, but to
Shjkiffeati'i T-welfil) Night.

Which maJefome think, wlicn he did raW/c,
Th' bad heaid three laboureis of Babel, HuJiirai.
Sucb a roi.t, and fuch
rabble.
Run to hear Jack Pujilii.g gaiile.
.)

Sulfl,
n.f. [from the verb.]
). Inarticulate noife like that of brute ani-

Ga'bble.

mals.
Not to know wirat we fpe.nk one to another, fo
we feem to know, is to know ftraight our purpofc
•liei^gh's language, gai>6ie en.3ugh, and good enough.

a

To court each place or foriune that doth fall,
It wantonnefs in con'cmplation.

Herbert

And all their echo's moan.

A fierce loud buzzing breeze

Milti>n.
j

their flings

draw

blood.

And drive the atilc gadding through the wood.
Drj/den,

She wreaks her anger on her rival's head
With furies frights her from her native home,

Milton' t ParadlfiljiJI.

A prater
;

gaiella,

Julian ; ^ajrel, Saxan, a tribute.]
cxcife i

*.

tax.

;

An

Minfhaiv.^

mouth

'Jo ftop the

with fomething that may allow to breathe,
but binder to (peak.
He's out of his guard already : twlefs you laugh
and miniftcr occalion to him, he is gagg'J.
Shakefp. ^ixielflh Nig^hi.

There foam'd rebellious logick, jd^'^ aud bound.

Something

eating.
•Some, when the kids their.dams too deeply drain,
With gagtini muzzles their foft mouths relirain.

DryJin.

Your woman would have run up ftairs before me j
but I have fecured her below with t.gag in hcrchaps.
Dryden,

Gaoe. n. f. \gage, French.]

K A pledge; a pawn; a caution

;

anything

given in fecority.
He, when the fhameed (hield of ftain Sansfoy

He fpy'd, with that r.ime fairy champion's page,
He to him leapr; and that lame envious g^ge.

.

Fairy ^lu:en.

And dritcs hci gadding, round the world to roam.
Drjt/en.

they wi.l uiiavoUably ixegadding.

Forthwith a hideoiu^n^ii/r riles toui

[from gaghel, Dutch, the

Of vi^r's gloiy from him fnatchl away.

;

not-ur.deiftood.

Loud talk without meaning

Tnnch

palate,

n.

Thee, fhepherd, thee the woods and defart caves,

With wild iliyme and the gadding vine o'crgrown.

Among the buiUletij each to other calls,

A 7'j v>cll ibat tndi luill.

[gabflle,

Aiuf-juorth,

To Gac. t.

put into the mouth to hinder fpecch or

gadding paffion, and walketh the
ftrcets, and doth not keep home.
Bacon,
Gad not abroad at ev'ry quell and call
Of an untrained hope or paliion ;
is

There's an ox loft, and this coxcomb runs a
gadding after wild fowl.
L' Iflrjnge,
No wonder their thoughts (bould be peipetually
Oiifting from what difgufts them, and leek better
f niertainment in more pleafing objetls, after which

n. J.

A fteel contrivance to bend crofs-bows.

I'ipe.

Each land, they hll'd, river, ibeam and ihore.

:

Ga'iel.

are fet to fight.
2.

Gag. n.f. [from the verb.]

Fairfax.

gftUr I;ke ti.ikcrs at this lime of night • Do ye
make ao alchoulic of my lady's houfe ?

Ga'«ei,p.R. n.f. [frora^oW/<r.J
a chattering fellow.

Ga'ffles. n.f. [gapelucap, fpears, Saxon.]
1. Artificial fpurs put upon cocks when they

Eccle/.xiv. %^.

The letter devils arofe with ghaftly tore.
And thronged forth about the world to gad ;
Envy

To prate loudly without meaning.

Z,

.

Give the water nopalTage, neither a wicked woman

When thou could'ft not, favagc.

SljakcJiKart't

or applied only in contempt to a mean
perfon.
For gaffer TreadwtU told us by the bye,
Excellive ibrrow is exceeding dry.
day's PufioraU,

Moxoh'i Med. Exrr.

be ufed by Shakefpeare for a
ftile or graver [from jab, Saxon, a goad.

—Where have

Dutch.

GArrfS., n.f. [^epepe, companion, Saxon.]
A word of refpcft now obfolete,

It feems to

Sbalccfffeare.

My

beren,

gad fteel.

any mean drefs.

bcft w»y i» to crtep under his raiarJtne
there is no other (heltcr hereabouts.
Sbakr/ptare.

about ; the brcefe.
The fly called the gadfly breedeth of fomewliar

A wedge or ingot of fleel.

in the middle of the 'vords before h ; as,
The Saxon D, 3, feems to have
had generally the found of _;• con fonant ;

ced jate.

in Saxon

fly,'\

n. /.

Hemilh fteel is brought down the Rhine to Dorf,

2,

Suppofed to be orijab, and
that when he llings the
them gad or run madly

Knallei.

It is often (tlent

whence gate is by rufticks ftill pronoun-

ti

m^gahicm,

a club.]
1.

nights

I.

all along

who makes it the original oi gad

it is called^oafl)?y.

Gad, n.f. jab, Saxon; gaddur, lilandiclc,

thus,

:

for benign, malign, condign, we pronounce

ner,

and very apt to let the water into the brick-work.
Afcrlimer^i Uujhandry.

commonly melted

is

to make

[from gad,"]
In a
rambling, roving manner.
Ga'dfly. n.f. [gad znify; hvithy Skinad-v.

French.] The floping roof of a building.
Take care, that all your brick-work be covered
with the tiling, according to the new way of

Gamble,

J,

end of a word, g

A wicker

[French.]

n. /.

Ga'dcingly.

a fortification or intrenchment.

inonly, thoagh not always, found before,
#, / ;

Addijon in Italy.

baflcet which ii filled with earth

ix is

fore a, 0, u, I, r ; as, gate, go, gull.
The other found, called that of the foft
C, refcmbles that of
and is com-

GAG

The galels of Naples are very high on oil, wine,

Locke.

Gaduek. //./.

[from gat/.]
A rambler :
one that runs much abroad without bu-

fincfs.

A driinkCT) woman, and a gadJcr abroad, caufcth
{real aii^cr, and Ok will not tovci her own ftiame.

There I throw my gage,
Difclaiming here thc' kindred oi a king.

And lay alidc my high blood's ruyalty.

They from their motliers breads ['oor orphans rend.
Sandys.
Nor without ga^et to the needy lend..
•

1 am made the cautionary pledge,
The gogn and hoftagc of your keeping" it,
.

Southern.

But tificc it was decided, aufpicious kine,
ill Britain's right that thou (hould'lt wed the main,
Heav'o', as a .^a^e, wuuKl caft fome previous thing,
And thcri.fuiii.a^Ri'd liiat iMiwfoo ibauld be (lain.
.

'

Ecclif. XXVI..8

Shakffp.

There is m-^frage, thC' manual leal of death,
That marks tiicc out lor hell.
Sh-ikefptaie,

Dr^den.

.

G At

G A I
minis

Til tny trurti, that gets not poffcffi«n of ouf

by felf-cvidcnce or dcmonftration, the arguments thit
gain it aflcnt are the vouchers and gage of its proLoeke.

bability.

A meafure

9.

;

a rule of roeafuring.

To win notto lofe.
A leper once he lo(V, and gain'J tking. Milton.
3. To have the overplus in comparative

2.

;

If you have two veffcls to fiU, and you empty one

An author's principles or parentage.
;

to

depone

as a

wager ; to

To obtain

;

VlagagtJ by our king.

To bind by fome caution or furety

;

to

engage.

My chief care
Hath left m- gig'JShtkfjj>eare.
To meafure ; to take the contents of

If fuch a tradition were endeavoured to be fet
on foot, it is not eafy to imagine how it (hould at
firft^a/« entertainment
but much more difficult to
conceive however it Ihould come to be univerfally
;

See Gauge.

gained this harm and lofs.

Birds prune their feathers, ittk gaggle, and crows
fetm to call upon, rain ; which is but the comfort
£bey receive in the relenting of the air.

a

And make my tongue viftorious as her eyes.

Maro's mufe commodious precepts gives,
Inftrudtive to the fwains, nor wholly bent

On whit \s gainful

Come, with prefenu, laden from the port,

Ga'in FULNESS,

Dryden.

No woman does it better than yourfeU
If you gain him,

Airily ; cheerfully.
2. Splendidly.
See GAYLTi:.
1.

I

9.

advantage; contrary to /»/i.
But what things were gain to me, thofe 1 counted

"i

Havocit and fpoil, andauin are my gain.

:

Shakefjeare* s

3. Intercft ; lucrative views.
That, fir, which ferves {ai gain,

And follows but for form.

Decay ofP'itty.

Ga'inly. adv. [from gain'\ Handily;
readily
dexteroufiy. Out of ufe.
To Ga'insav. 'V. a. ['geinji andfay.]

Milton.
We came to the roots of the mountain, and had
a very troubkfome march to gain the 'op of it.
fall'ft.

;

1.

Thus fav'd from death, theyga/» the Pheftan fhores,
Pope.
With Oiatter'd velTels and difablcd oars.
11. To Gain crvetr.
To draw to another
party or intereft.

'Shak^eare.

Did I make a ga'ut ol you by ^ny of them whom
2 Cor. xii. 17,
I fent unto you ?
If pride, it envy, if the luft q{ gain.
If mad Mnbiiion in thy bofom tctgii.
Thou boalt'it, alas thy fobcr fenfe in vain.
Fltxgerald,

Speeches which gairfay one another, muft of _

Nay, didft permit, apjirove, and fair difmils.
Millin,
2,

That any of tho:c bolder vices wanted
I-efs impudei.c;: xogainfay what they did

Than to pci.'^rin it Urft.

haft greedily ^a/«ri^ of thy neighbours hy extortions.
Exek. xxii. 12.

2.

To encroach

:

to come forward by de-

grees : with on.

nent; adverfary.
Such as may fatisfy ga/«/yf)-j, when fuddcniy,

When watchful herons leave their watry flanS,
And mounting upward with erefttj flight,

and befides expeflation, they require the fame at
Hooker.
•ur Lands.

We arc, for this caufe, challenged as manilcft

Dryden' s Virgil,

gainfayers of Scripture, even in that which we read
Hooker.
•or Scripture unto the people.
It was bill matter of touviftion to all gainfaycrs.

So on the land, while here the ocean gains.

fthich fettled by degrees into a firm land,

In oihcr parts it leaves wide fatidy plains.

Brc*u:n^i Vulgar Errors.

3.

Sbakefpeare,

Gainsa'vjs. »./. \ftom gainfety.'\ Oppo-

Xiain OH the (kies, and foar above the light.

£g)lpt became a gained ground hy the muddy
and limeous matter brought down by the Nilus,

Todeny any thing.
4 never heard yet

be advanced in intercft or happinefs.
Thou haft taken ufury and increafe, and thou

To obtain as profit or advantage.

He gains, to live as HiSt,

Too facile then, thou didft not much gainfay j

Swift.

enemies.

Hooker,

jcft.

their

To Gain, 1;. ».
1
To grow rich ; to have advantage ^ to

!

4. Overplus in a comparative computation ; any thing oppofed to lofs.
y« Gain* iu a. [gag/ter, French,]

who were leprefcnleU as

Tocontradid.; to oppofe.; to controvert
with ; to dHpute againft.
necefljty be applied both unto one and the fame fub.

ITie court of Hanover (hould have endeavoured
to gain over thofe

fuch kind oi gainm

and darknefs, were never the richer for all the ore
they digged ; no more is the iofatiable mifer.

!

Will pack, when it begins to rain,

is

as laborioufnefs of the work ; miners, buried in earth

Walter.
Shall I once more be toft into the main ?
Sun found his praife
In thy eternal courfe, both when thou climb'ft.
And when high noon haft gain'd, and when thou

AdJifen on Italy.
Pope.

it

G/i'iNutss. adj. [from ;fa/«.] Unprofitable ; producing no advantage.
Ga'inlessness. u.f. [from gainUfs.^ Un*
profitablenefs ; want of advantage.
The parallel holds too in the gainlej/hefs as weH

Macbeth.
Death was the port, which 1 almoll did gain :

Temple.

Dryden.

but foolery ,- but

Shakffpeare' s Hamlet.

"Now fpurs the lated traveller apace,

Compute the gains of his ungovem'd leal,
dll fuits h'S cloth the praife of rarting well.
Folly fights for kings or dives tor gain.,

It is

giving as would, perhaps, trouble a woman.

Miittm.
By a far worfe.
1 o reach ; to attain.
The Weft rtill glimmers with fome ilreaks of day

-own private account, who has a great Hock that
he is content Mlura that wayi and ii invited by
the gains.

ing againft, or contradidling.

Togain the timely inn.

gainful.']

which is ftili in ufe, is fay-

as gainfiying,

He never (hall find out fir mate, but fuch

10.

Milton.
It is in pralfe of men at in gettings and gaint ;
for tight gaint make heavy purfcs; for light gains
come thick, whereas great come but now and then.
Bacon*s EJfiys.
This miift be made by fome governor upon his

'[ftom

«. f, '['gainjl' and gi've.'l
he fame as mifgiving ; a giving againft

Through her perverfenefs, but (hall fee her gain'd

Phil. iii. 7.

Befides the purpofe it were now, to teach how
vif>ory fliould be ufed, or the gains thereof com<nunicatcd to thegeneral confent.
Raleigh.

/,

To obtain as a wooer.
As fome misfortune brings him, or miftake.
Or whom he wilhes moft (hall feldom gain

1. Profit;

ft,

Ga'ingiving.

:

(hall comply of courfe.

A. Pimps.

CAIN. ti.f. \gain, French.]

fometimes l)ie diverts

Profit ; advantage.

If Pyrrhus muft be wrought to pity.

^iifg-

:

Philips,
From folid counlels.
GA'iNfULhY, adv. [from gaittfu/.'] Prtjfitably ; advantageoufly.

Pope.

To draw into any intereft or party.
To gratify the queen and gain the court.

South,

Lucrative ; produflive of money.
Dryden,
Nor knows he merchants gainful care.

2.

.And on\s gains the wealthy client's caufc.
Dryien's Per/.
O love! for Sylvia'let me gain the prize,
8.

fome gainful purchale, lome

lufcious propolal of

rich match, or advantageous project.

to the other pafs, after

Clarendon.
Fat fees from the defended Umbrian draws,

Way fat geefeja^/f with melodious voice,

Kihtl dejfce 01 liit.

;

(hort reliilancc, gained it.

nacort^i Natural Itljiory.

And ne'er want gooleberries or apple^fauce.
KJa'ily. ad'v. [from^/y.]

Advantageous profitable.
He will dazzle his eyes, and bait him in with .the

1 .

Acts, x»vii. 11.

To win againft oppofition.

Shakefpeare.

To make a noife like a goofe.

Ga'inful. adj. [gain andyi//.]

Ye (hould not have loofed from Crete, and have

They who were fent

Vo Ga'ggle. v.k. [gageUigagelett, Dutch..]

And leave lliee in the ftorm.
3. Unlawful advantage.

dines of other countries as of our own nation.
Adiifon's preeboldtr,

To obtain whatever, good or bad.

6.

you (hall not^^ge me

lofs for Chrift,

He that lofes any thing, artd gets wifdom by it,
L'Ef range.
i> a gainer by the lofs.
By trade, we are as great gainers by the commo*

would gain the time, bccaufe ye
Dan. ii. 8.
fee the king is gone from me.

7.

We Ihall fee your bearing,
By what we do to-night.

Denbam's S'iphy.

Tillotfon's Sermons.
ror fame with toil we^aiVr, but lofe with eafe.
Pope.
Sure fome to vex, but never all to plcafe.
obtain increafe of any thing allotted.
5.

propagated.

More

any veflel of liquids particularly.

I.

The client, befides retaining a clear conference, it

I know that ye

3.

One who

gain.'\

always 3 gainer, and by no means can be at any lofs,
as f'^eing, if the compofition be overhard, he may
Bacon,
•relieve hlmfelf by recourfe to his oath.
If what I get in empire
1 lofe in fame, I think myfelf no ga/wn-.

To

It to come fairly off from the great debts
Wherein my time, fomething too prodigal.

[from

». /.

receives profit or advantage.

Milton.

Shaiefptare.

He found the Turkifli aierchanls malcing merry
unto thefe menrhants, he gave due falutalions, gaging his faith for their fafety, and they lilcenife to
KnoUts's Hi/lory.
him.

:

Ga'iker.

Of glimm'ring air, lefs vex'd with tempeft loud.

A moiety competent

—Nay, but I bar to night

Prtfface to the Acciieiiee,

to procure ; to receive.
I acceptance found, which galn'd
anfwer
from
the gracious voice divine. Milton.
This
That fide from fmall reflexion gains

4.

fecurity.

properly gauge.

Handy ; ready ; dexterous.

BrQiar.'s Theory of the Earth.

impawn ; to give as a caution, pledge, or

-3.

Ga

to fill the other, you gain nothing by that.

Young.

Gage. -v. a. [gager, French.]

To wager

_

4. 'I'o obtain influence witTi; with on.
My good behaviour had gained fo far on the em«
peror, that 1 began to conceive hopes of liberty.
Swiff,
I N. tu/J.
[ An old word now oat of ufe.]

computation.

The poem it at noon, and wrong at night
Another judges by a furer g'lgft

I.

not only gained tifm t!i«
Venetians in the Levant, but have 4heir cloth in
Venice itfelf.
Addifi».
^

Milttil.

One judges, ai the weather diftates, right

iTff

G A I
The Eaglilb have

What reinfoteement we may gain from h»p«,

'l"o get ground ;

Pope.

Hammond.

to prevail againft : with

Others

Millen.
I

.

i

GAL

G A L
Wnj

Ot5«ew foBgKt themfelves a name hj

gamfayhg, but failed of l^ *ir purpofc.
[for agairifi.'\
fref.

Iiis

SeTeral lights will not be feen.

fc7/,

If there be nothing elfe between

;

Men doubt, becaufe they Hand fo thick i* th' Iky,

Scc A-

'Gainst,

G A L
She ftill I'nfults, and yon muft ftill adorej
Grant that the honey's much, thegxll is mort.

ll thofe be Itars that paint the galaxy.

C AINST.
Tremble, ye nations »-ho, fecure before,
LaugK'd at thofe arm5> that '^a/«/?ourfelves we bore.

Jo'Ga'instaSD. "v. a.

\^gainft AnA. Jiand.^

To withftand

to oppofe ; to reM.
;
proper word, but not in ufe.

They did great hurt unto his title, and have left

is.bnught to us by thof* innumerable ftars in the
galaxy.
Bentley,

or reddilh colour :

;

fplendid; fine.

Three or four will outrage in apparel, huge hofe,
monflrous hats, and gairijh colours.
Afcbam.
I caird thee then poor fhadow, painted queen.
The prcfcntation of but what I was ,
mother, onlv mock*d with (wo fair babes
A dream of what thou waft, igalrijh flag.
To be the aim of every dangerous (hot.
Sbakejp,
There in cloie covert by fome brooky
Where no profaner eye may look.
Hide me from day's ga'irijb eye.
Millen.

Away; m, gang your gait.

Shakefpeare.

From their lolt wings, and Flora's earlieft fmells.
Milton.
Milton.

:

Umbria's green retreats.

A galcated tU\i\n\M copped, and in (hape fomewhat more conick than any of the foregoing.
IVoodvjard on Fo/Jils.

Sbalef.

[In botany.]
Such plants as bear a
flower refembling an helmet, as the

monkfhood.

>

Galeri'culate.

adj.
[from galerus,
Covered as with a hat.

Latin.]

Fairy ^uem.

Thou art fo lean and nseagre waien late.
That fcarce thy legs uphold thy feeble ^a;V.

Ga'liot. n.f. [ga/iotte, French.]

know her by her gait.

reroes.

Sbakejffure,

It

can both

ance of a great man, which he prcferved in his
gut and motion.
Clartnd-M.
A third, who. By h'israit
And fierce demeanor. Teems the prince of hell.

Dutch.]
an animal juice remarkable
for its fuppofed bittcrnefs.

Bint all on fpeed, and mark'd his airy gait.

Not

ters 1

This

And my galuge grown fall to my heel.
SMnfer.
Gala'.ncai.. n.f. [ga/a/tge, French.]
A
The leffer galangat is in pieces, about an inch

has a difagreeable,, but

much lefs acrid

Call is the

And ^vement ftars, as ftars to thee appear,

5

Denbam.

Shakefp.

A carrier, when he would think of a remedy for

a

his galled horfe, begins
all things.

And furious thus, and interrupting fpoke.

Harvey.

grcatcit rcfolvent

2.

Tyrant, I well deferv'd iby galling chain.

:

as

concord, did call the gall of
the altar.

3.

llic

I

of future
facrilice behind
3.

Thither write, my queen.

And with mine eyes I'll drink the words you fend,
Though ink be made of gall.
i'oifon be their drink

Sbakefp. Cymbeline.
!

Cm//, worfc \!sa»gidl, tlie diUatKlt neat they tafte !
Sbakefpetre.

Pf,

to wear away.

feek to heal it only by his weallh.
Shake/pearfl
If it fhould fall down in a continual ftieam like

a river, it would gall the ground, wa(h away plants
by the roots, and overthrow houfcs.
Ray,

Brown.

Any thing extremely bitter.

;

He doth objcO, I am too great of birth ;
And that my ftate hcin^ galled with my expence,

Icllimony

a

To impair

2.

The part which contairs the bile.
The married couple,

with cafting his eye upon
Lackt,

On the monarch's fpeech Achilles broke.

Arbutbnot on Diet.

;

Seen 10 the galaxy.
Milton', ParaJift Lojl.
A brown, lor which heaven would difbaiid
galaxy,
The
and ftan be UD»'d.
Cltavfland.

of

us

of curdled milk
Bc:rha*ve has given at a time one drop of the gall
of an eel with fuccefs.

j

Iky, confifting of many fmall ftars.
A broad and jmple road, whofe duft is gold.

informs

needs parMke of a fweet favour.

/y,//

GALft'xy. n.f. [y»x^. galaxie, Fr.
The milky way a ftrcam of light in the

Sbakefp. Hamlet.
His yoke iseafy, when by us embrac'd j
But loads and galls, if on our necks 'tis caft.

a

or

It

pofition

my point

It may be death.

vulgar errour,
terming the gall bitter, 2s their proverb implies,
It's as bitter
gall; whereas there's nothing guftable fweeter ; and what is moft undtuous mult

medicinal root.

:

I'll touch

With this contagion, that, if I ^<»// him (lightly,

Sbakefpeare.

Is fancy's fpring, but forrow's fall.

My heart-blood it well nigh frome, I feel

It

To hurt by fretting the Ikin.

1.

A honey tongue, a heart of gall.

in ufe.

and pungent tafte.

To Gai.l. rv. a. [gaW, French.]

Come to my woman's brean*.
And take my milk for gill, you murthering minif-

Milion.

in

galle,

;

The bile,

1.

Milton.

two long, of the ihicknefs of a man's little
finger ; a brownilh red colour, extremely
hot and
pungent. The larger galangal is in pieces, about
two inches or more in length, and an inch in ihicknefs : its colour is brown, with a faint call of red

The Aleppo ^aZ/j, wherewith we make ink, are
no other than cafes of infcds, which are bred in
them.
Derham.

Kttalltt's Uijlory.

dcfcribM his way.

A fliepherd's dog.

venenofe liquor, which, together with their eggs,
fuch infefls Ihed.Ray on the Creation.

lent

GALL. n.f. (jeala, Saxon
^^

where any infeds are found, are excited by fome

two notable pyrates with thirty
galliou, who, landing their men, were valiantly encountered, and forced again to ihek gMh\it.
BarbaroflTa

MUton.
Leviathans

Wallowing, unwieldy, enormous in ihat gaii.

name he comprehends all preternatural and morbofe
excrefcences, demonrtrates that all fuch excrefcences,

and row, and

fail

has fixteen or twenty feats for the rowers, with one man to each oar.
DiS.

He had in his perfon, in his afpefl, the appear-

». /.

A lit-

or fort of brigantine, built
very flight and fit for chaft.
It carries
but one mail, and two or three patte-

The manner and air of walking.

Gala'ce.

which we call oak-apples, oakgrapes, and oak-cone), are Jrue galls, though lefs
tirm in their texture.
Hill,
Befides the acorns, the oak bcateth galls, t^akapples, and oak-nuts.
Bacon's Natural liijlory,
Malpighi, in his treatife oi galls, under which
thofe exctefcencies

tle galley

HmH. Ta/r.

I

Addifon.

Covered as with a helmet.

1

And all her vain allurements did fbrfake.

•

Galls or galnihs are preternatural artd accidental

tumours, produced on trees ; but thofe of the o»lc
only are ufed in medicine.
We have Oriental
and European galls : the Oriental are brought
from Aleppo, of the bignefs of a laigc nutmeg,
with tubercles on their furface, of a very firm tAture, and a difagreeabie, acerb, and aftringent tafte.
The European galls are of the fame fize, with
perfeflly fmooth lurfaces : they are light, oftea
Ipsngy, and cavernous within, and always of a
lax texture.
They have a lefs auftere tafte, and
are of much lefs value than the firft fort.
The
general hiftory of galls is this
An infeft of thefly kind wounds the branches of the trees, and in
the hole depofites her egg : the lacerated vefTcla
of the tree difcharging their contents, form a tamoiir or woody cafe about the hole, -where the egg
is thus defended from all injuries.
This tumour
alfo ferves for the food of the tender maggot, produced from the egg, which, as foon as it is in its
winged ftate, gnaws its way out, as appears from the
hole found in the gall ; and where no hole is feen,
the maggot, or its remains, are fure to be found
within.
It has been obferved, that the oak does not
produce galls in cold countries : but this obfervatioia
(hall be contined to the medicinal galls ; for all

Winds

2.

Nought regiirding, they kept on their ^a/V,

1

Government of the Tongue,

7. \V'CQTa galla.y

Of gentleft gale Arabian odours fann'd

March; walk.

Great Juno comes ;

This is the fatalifi wound j as much fuperior to
the former, a»agangrene is to a ga// or fcratch.

Ga'leated. adj. [^n/fa/.v/, Latin.]

Good youth, aJdrer5 ihv^.7.'/ unto her:
Be not denied accefs, iland at her door.

3.

[From the verb.]

What h,ippy gaU

Frcfl) galei and gentle air.

Pricr.

A flight hurt by fretting off the ikin.

6.

£ccle/. xxtv. 15.

Where weftern^<;/M eternally refide.

2. Flighty or extravagant joy.
Let your hope be wiitiout vanity, or ga'irijknefs
of fpirit, but fober, grave, and filenc
Taylor.
Gait. ». /, [gat, Dutch.]

3.

•

its

is

Blows you to Padua here, from old Verona ?

Ga'irishness. »._/! \(nm gairifi.'\

I.

He grows difpirited and low,
He hates the fight, and Ihuns the blow.

A wind not tempclluous, yet

man.]

Stmb.

1. Finer}'; fls'inting gaudinefs.

Suppofe your hero were a lover.

Though he before had gall and rage ;

ftronger than a breeze.

and leavci a kind of di£>lution upon all the

(acuities.

loofc

Gale. »./. [gah'iitg, hiHy, fudden, Ger-

Extravagantly gay ; flighty.
Fame and glory tranfport a man out of himfelf
it makes the mind loofe and gairijh, fcatters the

Ji>irits,

It

myrrh; a gjlbanum.

A

2.

in

which is the purelt,

fmell is ftrong and difagreeof a middle nature between a gum and
a relin, being inBammable as a rcGn, and folublc
in water as a gum, and will not dilTolvc in oil as
pure refins do.
It is the produce of an umbelliferous
plant.
Hill.
I yielded indeed a pleafant odour, like the bed
able.

[seppian; to drefi fine,

Gaudy; ffiowy

fometimes

droj^^s of tears,

and fometimes in large malles.
It is foft, like
war, and du^ile between the lingers ; of a yellowilh

Saxon.].
1.

Spenfer ettlrelimJ,

Anger; bitternefs of mind.

f.

We meet with galtanum
granules, called

Love proved himfcif valiant, that durft with the
fword of rcvcrcnt]duty gahtjiund the force oi fo many
enraged detircs.
Sidney.

GA'IRISH. adj.

a perpetual ^a// in the mind of the people.

G.4LBAMJM.n./.

A

Dryd,'Juv.

.

Kanconr; malignity.

4.

!

Drydej:.

,.

T,

Cotuley.

We dare not undertake to Ihcw what advantage

To teaze

to fret ; to vex.
;
In honour of ihat adiion, and to ga// their mindj
who did not fo much commend it, ht wrote hii
book.

Hooker.

What they feem contented with, even for that
very caufe we rcjed j and there is nothing but it
plcafeth ui the better, if we cfjpy that it galteib
tliUB.

Hooker.

When

GAL
I donoikuowj
Which a difmirs'd oiTciice would ifttr ftaj

I p'ltyihofe

>.

burnt by tlie coinmon hanjniJii.

Ga'i.lantry. h. /.

All ftudio here 1 ftilemnly defy,

Save how tog*// and pinch this ^^^^^^^],^

jy

AdJiJi-rt.

*is gen-

GALLANT,
r.?//!,

Gay

1.

J.

trorn

magnificent.

A

ga.ley
place of broad Vivers, vfhcrein (hall go no

with oars, neither Ihall gulljii (liips

of compounding between
virtue and vice, as if a woiuan were allowed to be
vicious, provided ibe be not a profligate} as if there
were a certain^iut where ^<i//<««/y ends, and InSwi/t.
faciy begins.

Ga'lleass.

21-

The gay, the wife, the gallant, and the^rave,

,

My father hath no lefs
Than three great argofics, behdes two galeaffts,

decks,

—The reformation of our travell'd gallants.
That fill the court with ijuarrcls, talk, and tay'.ors.
abahfpean.
The gallamt and liirty youths of Naples came and
/CuJlei.
offered tri.:mfelves unio Vjiiius.
The gallants, to (iroiect the lad) 's ri-ht.

Their latchioils brandilh'd at the giifly fpright.
Oryjtri.
Callatitt, look to't, you fay iliere are no fprighis
But I'll come dance about your beds at nights.

Dry (ten
z.

A

two latter fenfes
has commonly the accent on the laft
In the

fyllable,

•Ga'lla.ntly. adv. [from fa//<7«/.3
1.

Gayly; fplcndidly.

1. liravely ; nobly ; gencrouHy.

4

five

[gaJion,

now in ufe only among the Spa-

niards.
I

allured

them

that 1 would

ftav for

them

at

Trii'idado, and thatno force fliould drive me ilience,
except I were funk, or fet on lire by the Spanilh

Raleigh's

Afslogy.

hundred and
and grjlcons icventy-two

Tlic number of veflels were one
thirty, wlicreof grflkiiTes

goodly Ihips, like floating towers or cities.
liactn's IVar with Spain,

Ga'llera-. ?/./. [^«/fr;>, French ; derived
by Du Cange [torn galeriti , low Latin, a
fine room.]
A kind of walk along the floor of a
I
houfe, into whicJi the doors of the apartments open ; in general, any building
o!" which the length miich exceeds the
.

Great Neptune grieved underneath the load

Ol Alps, hulks, gallies, barks and brigandiues.
J^airfax.

In the ages following, navigation did every where
greatly decay, by the ufe of gallies, and I'uch velVelt
Bacon.
as could hardly brook the ocean.
Jafon ranged the coalfs of Afia the Lefs in aa
Raleigh's
galhy.
HiJIiry.
or
boat
kind
of
open
Un oozy ground hiS gallies moor;

Their heads arc tura'd to fea, their ftcrns to (hore.
Dryden.
2. It 15

are condemned to row in them.
The moft voluptuous pcrfon, were he tied to
follow his hawks and his hounds, his dice and his
courtlliips every day, would tind it the greatell torment that could belalhim: he would fly to the mines
and the gallies for his recreation, and to the fpade
and the mattock for a diverfion from the mifery of a
continual uninterrupted pieature.

n moll part there had been framed by art fuch
plcafant arbors, that, one ani'wcring another, they
became a gaJlrry aloft from tree to tree, alnioll

round about, wliich below gave a perfefl Ihadow.

in the gallies.

As if one chain were not fuflicient to load poor
men, he mult be clogged with innumerable chains :
this

is

jutt fuch another

Spen/er.

Your gallery
Have we pafs'd through, not without much content.

The row of return on the banquet fide, let it be
ftatcly gal/cries, in which galleries let there

freedom as the Turkith

Bramb,
galley -Jl.fves do enjoy.
Hardened galley-jfaves defpife manumilTion.
Decay cf Piety.

The furges gently da(h againlt the ihore.
Flocks quit the plains, and galley-Jlax'es their oar.
Carih,

Ga'li.iard. n.f. [gaillarJ,FKnch; imagined to be derived from the Gauli(h ard,
genius; aaA gay.}
.\

1.

gay, brifk, lively man ; a fine fellow.
is

a^j/Z/^/r/y by himfclf.

Clei.-cland^

An aftive, nimble, fpritely dance.

2.

in

is
I

It

both fenfes now obfolete.

did think, by the excellent conlliiution of thy
under the rtar of a galliard.

leg, it was form'd

iSLinty

And goodly galleries fair overlaid.

Sossth.

Ga'lley-slave. k. /. [galley xn^ Jlave.]
A man condemned for fome crime to row

Seldcn

1

all

proverbially confidered as a place
mifery, becaufe criminals

of tpilfome

brcidth.

High lifted up were many lofty towers.

One, worn to pieces whh age, Ihews himfclf a
Sbakr/pcare.
yomi^ gallant.
She had left the good man at home, and
'
AdilifoH's Spe£lator,
brought a^vay hcf gallant.
wooer ; one who courts a woman
3.
It

A

with four or fometimes

/.

who careffes women to

debauch them.

for marriage.

French.]

«.

large (hip

Thmf.Ti.

A wfiorenufter,

Shaktjptarc.

.\nd twelve tight gallics.

Ga'lleon.

Tlie gay troops begin
plume their paiatcd wing?.
to r
ealhiti ihoutht
In *
b

The new pioclamatiou.
What is't for ?

fails

It carries three marts, but they

gallt'.ns.

GA'i-LANT. »./. [from the adjcfttve.]
1. A gay, fprightiy, airy, fplendid man.

I

The Venetians preteivd they could fct out, in cafe
of great necefliiy, thirty men of war, a hundred
Adiifm an Italy.
galleys, and ten guleajfcs.

4. Courtly with refpcft to ladie*.
He liifcourfed, how gallant and how brave a
thing it would be for his highncfs to make a journey
iuto Spain, and to fetch home his miftrefs.

I.

I

1

A

French.]

[gti/eas,

A vcffel driven with oars, much in ufe
in the Mediterranean, but found unable
to endure the agitation of the main oceaa.

To carry three tire
feven Haves to each.
of guns at the head, and at the ttern there
Dt'iS.
arc two tire of guns.

SLakeffeart.

"

w. /.

and pars.

But, fate thee well, thou trntallant youth.
Sbaktfpcjre.
A gjtUnt man, whofe thoughts fiy at the hi?heil

"•

galley come golUnft, galleon, galliot. ]
1.

fort

caimot be lowered, as in a galley. It
has thirt) -two feats for rovers, and fix or

him feek his revenge in manner ^ay/a»/ enough.

When firft the foul of love is fent abroad,

a

heavy low-built Teilel, with both

U^illtr.
SubduM alike, all but one palhon have.
magnadaring
fpirited
;
;
high
Brave
;
2.
nimous.
Scorn, that any (hould kill his uncle, made

Digiiy.
game, requires no further iiifight.
fpacious.
3. Fine; noble;
There are no tricks in plain and fimple faith ;
But hollow men, like horlits hot at -hand,
Make gulUnt rtiew end promife of their mettle.

looks like

I

paf* tlicrcby.
if. xxiiii.

\gaka, Italian •,,galere,
French; derived, as fome think, from
galea, a hehnet, piftured anciently on tha
prow; as others from yecXiinv,, the fwordfidi ; as others from galleon, exprefling in
trom
S) riac men expofed to the fea.

Vicious love; lewdnefs; debauchery.
It

fplendid ;

well dreifed ; (licwy ;

SaconU Pbyf. Rem.

GA'LLEY. th f.

GranvUU.

fine drefi, Spanilli.]
;

that is, to have the colour milky like a chalccdou,
being a ftuff between a potcellane and a glafs.

A number of gallants.

Stairffj.,.f.

Pope.

«./. 1 fuppofe this word
has the fame import with gallipot.
Make a compound body of glafs and gaHety!e\

Ga'lletyle.

Hedor, Dciphobus, and all the gallantry of
tihaktjftarc.
Troy, 1 would have arm'd to-day.
4. Courtship ; refined addrefs to womea.
The martial Moors, \i\ gallantry rcfin'd.
Invent new arts to make their charmers kind.

To

have feen you gkckir.j and gaUwg^t

1

While all its throats the gallery extends.

And all the thunder of the pit alcends.

Bravery ; noblenefs ; generofity.

3.

Dryd. /Rn.

wc ufed to
In our wars againll the French of old,
w.di our loi>g bows, at a |reater dilUnce

tleman twice or thrice.
adj. [galaat. Frenidi,

pit, in which the meaner people fit.

The eminence of your condition, and the gallantly of your principles, will invite gejitleraeu to
the ufeful and ennobling ftudy of nature.
Glaitv. Sctff. TrtfMt.

Light demilances from .ihr they throw,
gall tl>= li>«;
Fatten 'd with leathern thongs, to

The feats in the playhoufc above the

2.

Make the fea (liine with gallantry, and all
The Englilh youth fiock to their admiral. Walltr.
2.

the

I

tious finery.

m

fnm

Adiijon.

palace to live rfi;fcrcnt churches.

[^a/fl«/;nV, French.]

nificence ;

flate of uneafinefs.
The Helot3 had gotten new heart, and with
and houfedivert fortt of (hot ftom cornets of ilrccu
iidn.j.
windowsfj/Zfi/theni.

Gall.

Graunh
There are covered galleries Ihtt le«d

fitvifl.

^

Splendour of appearance ; fnow ; magglittering grandeur ; oftenta-

1.

No mail commiis any fin but hU confcienct fmitts
«uh
him, and hU guilty mini is Irequontlj «4«<;^
Iiihijan.
the remembrance of it.
a
mifchief j to keep
4. To harafs ; to

gall them
than they could llioot iheir arrows.
fret.
'v. it.
To

.rfiurcbts flf London arc drivii^ ap;K<, as appears by
the many galleries every day built in them.

Yiu have not dealt (o gallantly with us at We ^'i
with yeu in a parallel cafe: lart year a paper was'
brought liere from England, whichwc ordered to be

When I (ktn jufticc,
-

/-GAL

G A 1.

be

Hacm.
three cupolas.
A private gallery 'twixt th' apartments led.
Dcnbam.
Not to the foe yet known.
Nor is the lliape of our cathedrals proper for our
preaching auditories, but rather the hgure ot an
amphitheatre, with galleries gradually overlooking
each Other; iot into litis couditioH the parifli

Sbakrfpeare's 'IwrlJ'tb Night,
There*? nought in France
That can be with a nimble galliard won :
Sbakefp.
Vou cannot revel into dukedoms there.
If there be any that would take up all the time,
let him Hnd means to take them off, and bring
others un : as mulicians ufe to do with Ihofe that
Bacon.
dance too long galliards.
The tripla's and changing of times h.ive an agreegalliaid
as
when
the
changes
ot
motion
with
ment
;
time and mcafure time are in the medley uf one

Bacont

dance.

[French.] _ Merexuberant gaiety. Not in ufe.

GA'ILLARDISE. n.f.
riraent ;

At

The^a/Zs/iV^ofhorfe: who was't come 1>y? Sbak.
Ills fteeds will

;

fiich

as,

be retlrain'd,

Donne.
But gatlnp lively down th' weftern hill,
In luch a (hape grim Saturn did reftrain
His heav'niv limbs, and flow'd with fuch a mane.
When half furpriz'd, and fearing to be fecn,
The leacher^^.i/V'o^Vfrom his jealous queen. DryJ.

Ga'llicism. »./. [gatlkifmf, French from
A mode of fpeech pegalliots, Latin.]
culiar to the French language;

f

A<invti:ora gnbalus urea, Latin; other'
from niJ high, others from gallu, Wellli,
power; but it is probably derived like

1 did hear

At my nstmty my afcendant was tlie waU-ry fign
of Scorp'ius : I was bom ia the pfaneury hour of
Saturn, and I think 1 j..ive a piece of that leaden
planet in me : 1 am no way facetious, nordilpofed
Hnnirn^
for the mirth and galliardife of company.

To ride at the pace which is performed

2.

he figured in controverfy ; he held this
comiuA ; he held the fame language that
another had held before: with many other
expreflions to be found in the pages of

by leaps.
Seeing fuch flreams of blood as

threatened

a

diowning life, \ye ga//c/*(/ toward them to part them.
Sidney.

galfcvj, to fright, from a^jselpan, th." gallows being the great objedl of legal ter-

rour.]
malefactors are hanged.
This monfler fat like a hangman upon a pair of
gallon's: in his riglit hand he was painted holding
a crown of laurel, in his left hand a purl'e of money,
Sidney.

would we were all of one mind, and one mind
good ; O, theie were defolation of gaolers and gal~
Sbakfp. Cymbeline,
huffs.
1 prophefied if a gallows were on land.
Sbakfp. 'Tempejl.
This fellow could not drown.
I

An armed knighl lowaids them gallop faft.

In Englilh I would (li« Callicl/m: avoided, that

That feem'd from fome feared foe to tly. Fairy S^u.

we may keep to our own language, and not follow
the French mode in our fpeech.

Mc who fair and foltly goes Readily forward, in a
courfe that points right, will fooncr be at his jour-

FrlioiisrtibtChff.

Ga'llicaskins. ti. /. [Caligis Galio-Vaf.

ney's end than he that runs after every one he meets,
Locke.
though he gallop all day full Ipeed.

Large open hofe. Not

Skinner. "[

3.

ufed but in ludicrous language.

The Winter's fury, and encroaching frofts.
By time fubdu'd, what will ntic time fubdue.

An horrid chafm difclofe.

He took tlie mayor alide, and whiCpcred him that
execution mull that day be done, and iliercfore required him that a pair of gulloivs Ihould ie erefled.
Ha\ti'ard.
poor fellow, going to the gallows, may be al-

To move very faih
The golden fun
Gallops the lodiack in his glift'ring coach. Sbatfp.
Whom doth lime gallop withal?
Sbahffeare.
With a thief to the galiows.
He that rides port ilhrough a country may, from

My gjHig.iJkins, that have long withftood

A

lowed to feel the

—

Philips.

G.iLUMA'TIA.n.f. [galimathia!, French,]

how in general the parts lie
fuch fuperlicial ideas he may colle<il in galloping over
the tranlicnt view,

Nonfenfe; talk without meaning.

GaI-LIM au'frv. ». /. [galimafree, Fr.]

A beam laid over two pofts, on which

1.

They 'gan efpy

Biilhigbroke.

coinim.

GAM

GAL

G A L

tell

it.

wafps while he

is

upon

S^'ift.

A wretch that deferves the gallows,

2.

:

Locke.

I'mart of

Tyburn road,
Cupid hath been five thouland years a boy.

— Ay, and a Ihrewd unhappy

galloivs too.

Sbak,

Gallop. ». /. [from the verb.] The Ga'llowsfree. adj. [geilliivi and //«.]
1 . A hoch-poch, or ha(h of feveraf forts of
Exempt by deftiny from being hanged.
tianmer.
motion of a horfe when he runs at full
broken meat; a medley.
They have made of our Englilh tongue a gaii'fnavfry, or hodgepodge of all other fpeccLes.

fpced ; in which, making a kind of a leap
forwards, he lifts both his forelegs very
near at the fame time ; and while thefe
are in the air, and juil upon the point of

Spenf,

2. Any inconfiftent or ridiculous medley.
They have a dance, which tlie wenches fay is a

gM'mau/rj of gambols, becaufe they are not in'c.
Shakffpearc^i ff'interU Tale.
The painter who, under pretence of diverting the
eyes, would fill his piilure with fuch varieties as
alter the truth of hillory would make a ridiculous
piece of painting, and a mere gallimaufry of his
work,
Dvyden's Dufrefn:y.

3. It is ufed by Shaie/ptare ludicrouffy of a

woman.
Sir ]ohn a&£b thy wife.

.—Why, fir, my wife is not young.

—He wooes both high and low, both rich and poor
He lovci \.\\f gallimaufry friend,
Hbakeffeare.
Ga'li.iot. n. f. [galietie, French.] A
fmall ftvift galley.
BarbarofTa departing out of Hellefpontus with
eighty gallies and certain galliots, (haped his courfe

KnoUes's Hijit,ry.

towards Italy.

Ga'llipot.

n. /.

[gltye,

Dutch, (hinine

Skinner.
The true derivation is
{xQtagala, Spanifh, finery. Gala, orgallypot, is a fine painted pot.] A pot painted
and glazed, commonly ufed for mediearth.

cines.

Bacon's Aptpbtb,

Hfre phials in nice difcipline are fet ;
There gaUipots are rang'd in alphabet.

Cartb.
Alexandrinus thought it unfafc to trull the real
Ctcret of bis phial and rallip'^i to any man. SfeHaltr.
Thou that doft iCfculapiw decide.
And o'er his gallipots in triumph ride.
Fenltn.

Ga'lloi». n. f. [^r/«, low Latin.] A liquid

meafuK of four quarts.
B-ii them into powJer, and boil them in a gallon
of wine, in a veffcl clofe rtopped. Ififeman's Surgery.

Gallo'on. ». / \gaUn, French ]

A kind
of clofe lace made of gold or filvcr, or of
iilk alone.

To GA'LLOP. Of. n. [gahper, French.]
Derived by all the etym«Iogifts, after
iutAzra'^ii> ;

but perhaps it

comes from ^fl»/, all, znA laopeit, to run,
Dutch ; that is, to go on full foeed ]
1. To move forward by leaps, fo that all
the fcetarc off the ground at •»«.

Vot, I.

tion.

both his

touching the ground, he

lifts

hindlegs almoft at once.

Farrier's Did.

He hung their conquer'd arms, for more defame.

On gallnvlreei, in honour of his deareft dame.
Spenfer,

Ga'lloper. 71./. [from ^a//ff/.]

A Scot, when from the gallotvtree got loole,

A horfe that gallops.

1

Drops into Styx, and turns a foland goofe.

Mules bred in cold countries are much better to
ride than horfes for their walk and trot; but they
are commonly rough gallopers, though fome of them
are very fleet.
Mortimer's Hufhandry.
2.
man that rides fail, or makes great

;

upon the legs above the flioc.

A

Ga'llowav. n. /.

horfe not more than
fourteen hands high, much ufed in the
North; probably as coming originally
from Galloway, a Jhire in Scotland.
To Ga'llow. 1/. a, [ajxipan, to fright,

Saxon.]

The pettifogger ambles to her in his gambadoes
^D<nni?s Letters.

once I week.

hade.
Pi.

To terrify

;

to fright.

The wrathful (kies
Calkvi the very wand'rers of the dark,

And make them keep their caves.

Sbakefpeari.

Cleavrl,

Gamba'de. ) «. /. [gamba, Italian, a leg.]
bootswom
Spatterdalhes
Gamba'do. j

Ga'mbler. n. /. [A cant word, I fuppofe*
iox

A knave whofe

game or game/},r.'\

praftice it is to invite the unwary to game

and cheat them.

Ga'mboce, «. _f.
Gamioge is 3 concreted vegetable juice, partly 0'
a gummy, partly of a refmous nature, heavy, ot a
It i«
bright yellow colour, and fcarce any fmcll.
brought from America and the Eall Indies, parti,,

culatly (roniLCambaja, or Cambogia.
Ga'i.LOWCL ASSEJ. n. f.
[gambiller, French.]
1
It is worn likewifc of footmen under To GA'MBOL. -v. n.
to jump
to frifk
1. To dancc,i; to Ikip
their (Hirts of mail, the which footmen
for joy; t^r'ay merry frolicks.
the Irifh call galltnuglcrjfes : the which
Bears, tiger'i, ounces, pards,
name doth difcover them alfo to be an-

//;/.',

,

;

;

Plato faid hij mafter i>o-;ratei was like the apothecary's gallifoii, that had on t^e outfides apes,
owl<« aodfatyrs; but within, precious drugs.

Budttus, from

Let him be galloivsfree by my confent,

And nothing fuffcr, lince he nothing meant. DryJ.
Ga'llcwtree. ?t. /. [gailoius and /rec,'\
The tree of terrour; the tree of execu-

GambiI'd before them,

Englifh ; for gnllogla fignifics an
Englilh fervitor or yeonun.
And he being fo armed in a long Ihirt of mail,

cient

down to the calf of his leg, with

a

diers among the wild Irilh,

who ferve on

horfcback.

A puilTant and mighty pow'r
0{ gallov^glajfes and ftout kernes,
is marching hitherward in

proud array.

Dryden,

The monflerj of the flood

long

broad ax in his hand, was then ttdet
graiii armalura; and was indcid of the
footman that now weareth a corflet, before the corflet was ufed, or almoil invented.
Spenjer on Ireland.
2. [Haamer, otheru-ife than Spen/er.'\ Sol-

Sbakfp.

Ga'llow. ^ ». /. [It is ufed by fome in
Ga'llows. / the lingular; but by more
only in the plural, or fomctimes has another plural j-/7//«it^r. Galgo, Gothick ;
jcalja, Saxon; gfilge,\i\iid»; which fome

Milton's Paradife Lojl.

The king of elf<, and little fairy queen,
and danc'd on ev'ry green.
Gambol' d on heit^
Gambol around him in the wat'ry way,

And heavy whales in awkward meafures play. Pope.

To leap

2.

to ftart,
'Tisnot madnefs

;

bring me to the left,
And I the matter will record, which madnefs
Sbaktfpeare's Hamlet.
Would gambol Mm.
Ga'mbol. », /. [from the verb.]
1, A Ikip; a hop; a leap for joy.

That I have utter'd

;

A gentleman had got a favourite fpaniel, iha
would be itill toying and leaping upon him, and
L' Ff range.
playing a thoufand pretty gamboli.
Bacchus through the conquer'd Indies rode,
And beafts in gambols Irilk'd before tlwir honcll god,
Vryden,
2.

A frolick

a wild prank.
;
Vor who did ever play his gambols,

With fuch unfuflcrablc rambles
r

O

Hudibrat.

Ga'mOKIL.

GAM

G A M
GA'MBRtL.w. f. [horn gamia, gamiartlla,
Italian. 1

What cjii be more admirable than for the printitendon to be fo mixed as to
mak; it a foft body, and yet to have the ftrength
weight which the tendon,
ot' iron ! as appears by the
lying on a horfc's gar^brel, doth then command,
when he lears up wiih a man upon his back. Gmu.

pl.\ of the fibres of a

[gamdit, 3 jeft, IQandick.J

Sport of any kind.

1.

We have had padimet here, and pleafing game.
Shaktffrarr,

2. Jfft ; oppofed to earneft or ferioufncfs.
Tiien on her head they let a garland green,
And crowned her 'twiit earneft and 'twixt game.
Spertjcr.

playful; fportful.
Geron, though old, yet gamr/ome, kept one end
"
with Cofma.
Sidney.
1 am not gamefome ; I do lack foine part
Of that quick fpirit that is in Antony.
Shakefp.
The gamefome wind among her trulTcs play.
And curleth up thofe growing riches (bort. Fairfax.
Belial, in like £dinr/0/)if mood.
Milton.
This ^j»if/om« humour of children (liould rather
be encouraged, to keep up their fpirits and improve
their ftrength and health, than curbed or reftrained.
Lixke.

Ga'mesomeness.

[from gamefome,'\
Sportivenefs ; merriment.
Ga'mesomelv. adv. [irom gamefome.

infult.
3. Infolcnt merriment; fportive

Do they not feck occafion of new quarrels.

On my rcfufal, to diftrcfs me more;
l)r

make a guire of my calamities i

4<

A fingle match at play.

5.

Advantage in play.

Miltin't Ag.

Ga'mester. «.^ [itom getme.}
1. One who is vitioufly addicted to play.
Keep a gamfjrer from the dice, and a good lludent
from his book, and it is wonderful.
Shakefp.
A gamefier, the greater mailer he i« in his art, the

And play the game into each other's hand. Dry Jen.

in the iield ;

fler^

That fill a female gamefler'% pate ;

To fee a knave's inverted heels.
dancing has no fuperior.
2.

rtiait.

3.

Solemn contctts, exhibited, as fpeftaclcs

Bacotti

Ga'mmer.

It.

ing to gaffer; as, Gfl7/;A«fr Gurton'j NeeAn old play.

dle.

Ga'mmon-. fi. f, igambotte, T.ta\\an,^
I. The buttock of an hog faked and dried;
A!k for what price thy venal tongue was fold

bVed to fight.
They manage the difpute at fiercely as two^.iiii^cotki in the pit.

Locke.

G^'me-egc. n. f. \_gtune vnA rgg.'\ Eggs

Canmons, that give a rcIiOi to the tafte.

1.

That ere the firft is out, the fecond ftinks.
A kind of play with dice.

Ga'm OT. n. /. [game?, Italian.] The fcale
of miiiical notes.
Madam, before y«i touch the inftrumcnt,

To learn the order of my fingering,
1 mud liegin wiih rudiments of an.
To leach you gamut in a briefer fort. Shaicfpeare,
When by the gamut fome muficians make

A p.-rtctl Ibiij, mhcrs will undertake.

Thus boys hatch game-eggt under birds of prey.
To make the fowl more tunous for the fray, Caitb.

By the fame g.imut chang'd, to equal it:

IS

not deftroyed.

Dryd.

The quick dice.
In thunder leaping from the box, awake
The founding gunman.
Tismfon't Autumn.

from which fighting cocks are bred.

Ga'mf.KEEPER. ». /. {game !inA kee/i.'\ A
perfon who looks after game and fees it

:

Dry Jen,

And potted lowl, and fiih, come in fo iaft.

fjaman, Sa.xon.]

Cocks

As deep drinketh the goofe as the gander. Camd.One gander will ferve five gecfe.
Alortimer.
1'. ». [gaugen, Dutch
Te
; Janjan,

GANG.

Saxon ; gang, Scottifh.] To go

;

-

to walk ;

an old word not now ufed, except luiUcroufly.

But let them gang alone,.
As they have brewed, fo let them bear blame.
YourflauntingbeausjtfKf.wiihibeir breads open.
Ariutinci,
».
[from the verb.]
number-

Gang.

A

/

herding together ; a troop ; a company ;
a tribe ; a herd.
It is fcldom ufed out in -

contempt or abhorrence.
At a gang of ihievcj weK robbing a houfe, a
marti(f fell a barking.
L'Eftrange,
Admitted in ameng the gang.

He afts and talks as they befriend him/
Pricr
GA'NGHON.n, /. [French.] A kind of
Ainfiuorih.

Ga'nglion-. :f. f. {y«.'V/i'«».] A tumour in
the tendinous and nervous parts.
Bonefettcrs ufually reprefent every bone diflocated, .
though pofl'ibly it be fa'Jt a ganglion, or other crude
tumour or preternatural protuberance of fome part of
a joint.

IVifman,
[i'iQim gangrene.^
;

to mortify.

Parts cauterized, gangrenaieJ, fiderated, and mor-

become black, the radical moifture or vital

fuliihur fuffering an extiivftion.

Skakrfp.

f: [Of

A x\A\ gammon of fome I'ev'n years old.

The

[janbpa, Saxon. J

male of the goofe.

tified,

my lord.

uncertain etymology ; perhaps from grand mere, and
therefore ufed commonly to old women.]
The compellationof a woman corrfjfpond-

Milo, when cnt'ring the Olympick game.
With a huge ox upon his Ihuuldets came. Denbam.

QtJ>\^QiiC's..ii. f. \_game aiA cock.'Y

n, f.

To produce a gangrene

not in ufe.

She's impudent,

Sbakrf^eare.

Gamirg leaves no fatijfaAion behind It : itno wav
prohts either body or mind.
Ixcke.

Mufx Angl,

Sanguineis trepidant in uncis,

Ga'nder.

Sbakefpeate'tHenryyiU,
;

the lower end of the flitch.

money.

Luft.tnttir afti, pendulive

You're a mtny gamefier.

And was a common gamefier to the camp.

The^owri are done, and Cs^far is returning.

To play at any iport.
a. To play wantonly and extravagantly for

Cohors catenis qua pia ftridulis
Cemnntonufti, vcl fude trans finum

7» Ga'ncrewate. a', «.

4. A proftitute

to the people.

I .

:

A merry frolickfome perfon.
My lord Sands.

Prhr.
Proud Nimrod firft the bloody chace began,
A mighty hunter, and his prey was man
Our haughty Norman boalts that barb'rous name.
And makes hit trembling (laves the royal game.
Pope.
Shorten my labour, if its length you blame.
grow
but
wife,
rob
For,
you
mc of m^j game. Tcurtg.

Spenfer,

from gancio, a
hook, Italian; ^a»f^<', French.] To drop
from a high place upon hooks by way
of punifhment a praftice in Turkey, to
which Smith alludes in his Pococlius,
.

flower.
S6ak.

:

'

w.

One who is engaged at pla)'»

A manmayihink, if he will, that two eyes fee
no more than one; or that ^ ^ainefier feeth always
more ili.in a looker-on but, when all is done, the
help of good counfcl is that which fetteth buiinefs

Milton,

Ury4in.
he purfues,
and all hounds the paiticular game they have in
AtLuibnot.
chace.
CJo, with thy Cynthia hurl the pointed (pear
At the rough bear, or chace the flying deer;
I and my Chloe take a nobler aim.
At human hearts wc fling, nor ever mifs the game.

"v.

hatu.

When lenity and cruelty phy for kingdoms.

here is fuch a variety of gamf fpringing up before

Gam E.

Swift,

Her youngert daughter is run away with a gamefier^ a man of great beauty, who in drdCng and

The Rentier game^er is the fooneft winner.

A

Ga

(), you panderly rafcals I there's a knot, t gang^
a pack, a confpiracy againft me.
Shakefp. -

What agony of foul Ihe feels

animals

jne, that 1 know not which to follow.
bloodhound will follow the pcr&n

Tin

we (hould fee it full of nothing but trumps and
:

Hunting, and men, not bcalh, lllall be \i\%game.

f).

The noble knight 'gan to feel
Hit vital force to faint.
NCH ^'. a. [ganciare,
Ti

Spenfer, -

mattadores her (lumbers are haunted with kings,
queens, and knaves.
Addifon.
All the fuperfluous whims relate,.

With war, and hoftilefnare, fuch as refufc
'1

GaN, iot Began, from 'gin for hegln.

Gam:^eri for whole patrimonies play

The fteward brings the deeds, which murt convey
Dryden^s 'Juvenal.
The whole eftale.
Could we look into the mind of a common game-

appropriated to legal fportfmen.

Subjedion to his empire tyrannous'.

Bac.n

worfe man he is,

6. Scheme purfued ; meafures planned.
This fccms to be the piefcnt jfdw? of that crown,
and that they will begin no other 'till they fee an
Temflt.
end of this.
7. Field fports : as, the chace, falconry.
If about this hour he make his way.
Under the colour of his ufual ganr,
fie (hail here find his friends with horie and men.
Shakefp.
To fct him free from his captivity.
1
What arras to ufe, or nets 10 frame
5«
Wild hearts to combat, or to tame,
Ifaller. )
With all the myft'ries of that game.
Some fportfmen, that were abroad upon gamey
fpied a company of buftards and cranes. L' Ejirange.

Animals purfued

n, f.

iVIerrily.

Mutual voucher? for our fame we Hand,

8.

ffrom^flw^.j

G A N
Frolick-

fome; gay; fportive;

Tfie leg of a horft.

GAME. «. /

Ga'mesome. <7i//.

Tilings fimply good can never be unfit.
Dsn:>t.
I.oiig has a race of heroes fill'd the (lage.
Thai rant by note, and through the g.tmui rage i
In fongs and airs cx(jnr> their martial fire,
CoailMt in triUs, aod in a tcuge expire.
AJdifon.

Brc-wn's Vul. Err.

GA.-^GRE.\E. n. /.

[gangrene, French;
gangrcena, Latin.]
mortification; a
iloppage of circulation followed by pu«

A

trefattion.
This experiment maybe transferred unto the cure
o{ gangrenei, either coming of themfelves, or induced
by 100 much applying of opiates. Bactn'iNal.Hifi,
She faves the lover, as we gtingrenes ftay.
By cutting hope, like a h>pi limb, away.
Ifaller,
A difcoiouring in the part was fuppofcd an approach of a gangrene.
IP'ifeman'z Sitrgtiy.
It thefubllaiice of the foul is feftered with thefe
pnffions, the gangrene is gone too far to be ever
cured: thcfe intlammations nil! rage to all eternity.
Addifon^s SpeSator.

To Ga'ng R ENE. "y. (7. \gangn:»er, trench ;
from the noun.J To corrupt to mortification.
In cold countries, when men's nofes and ears are
mortified, arid, as it were, gangrene with cold, if
they come to a fire they rot oft prcfently; lor that
the lew fpirils that remain in thofe parts, aie fud-

denly drawn forth, and fo pulrcfa^ion is made complete.

Baciii,

Gangren'd members muft be lop'd away,
Belore the nobler parts are tainted to decay, Dryden.

To

v_-a'nc,k KKB.

v. »,

To become mo/-

tified.

Wounds immedicable
Rankle and fcfter, and gangrene

To black mortification.
.\s

Milton's Agmifle).

phlegmons are fubjeiS to mortification, fo alfo
grangrene after open-

in lat butU^'i ihey are apt to

ing, if tlut fai be not fpccdily digeltcd out.

H'ifrm.

G.\'.NORENoes,

GAP

GAP

tified ;

Chiiftian
comtnon-.veal ; manifold miieries afterwards er.fued
by the opening of that gap to all that ftde of
Chrilkndom.
KnolttT.

produced or betokening inottiii-

cation.

The bloodi

turning acrimonious, corrodes the
producing ha*morrhagcs, puftules red, leadcoloured', blick ini ^ii^gmcai.
.-ii-iujLr.ci on Al.
veflels,

Ga'ngw.^y.

ff.

a

In a (hip,

the feveral

ways or pafiages from one part of it to
the other.
Dia.

Ga'ngweek. » f.
gation week,

Ga'ntelope. J
Ga'ntlet.
J
gant, all;

gr*at part of their prerogatives;
it

Dicl.

[gnutlit is only cor-

ruptcd from

3X\d lojfeti,

gantehpe,

Dutch.]

But would'U thou, friend, who hafl two legs alone.
Would 'ft thou to run the gjnilei thefc cxpole.

To a whole company of hob-nail 'd Ihoc^ ?

Dryiien.
to run

the ganiltl through the feveral clafl'es.

Locke.

a goofe.]
kind of wild goofe, by a flock of which

They'arc but idle dreanu and fanciest

Khg

Sbakffpeare*!
Lear,
Have I been ever free, and mull my houfe
Be my retentive enemy, my gaoi^
Sbakefpcart,
II we mean to thrive and do good, breA open
thcfWi, and let out the prifoners.
Sbaktfftart,

To Gaol. f. n. [from the noun.J
iinprifon ; to commit to gaol.

by two vowels opening on each other.

To flop a Gap,

8.

mean Ihift ;

with dead bulhes,
grow.

the quickfets will

'till

nation or acquittal of perfons confined
evacuates the prifon.
Then doth th' al'piring foul the body leave,
Which we call d«aln ; but were it known to ail.

to exnofe himfelf for the proteAion of

fomething in danger.
What would become of the church, if there were
none more concerned for her rights than this
Vfouli ^and in the gap ?

Thefe malte a general ^as/.i/f/fv/i;^' of fouls, not

prifon ; he to whofc care the prifoners are

the broad fpeaking gapiomhed wile of Bath.

GAPE. I', n. [jeapan, Saxon.]

1.

To open the mouth wide; to yawn.

Put on the brute.

DryJen'i Cleommex.
From the polite part of mankind flie had been
baniflied and immured, 'till the death afhtrgaiJcr.

is when the fpirits are a little heavy by
any vapour. Arhutbnot.
She ftrelches, gapet, unglues her eyes,

ftretching

And aiks if it be time to rife.
Svji/i.
2. To open the mouth for food, as a young
bird.

Taller.

Gap. n.f. [from gape.']

As callow birds,
Whofe mother's kill'd in feekingof the prey,

An opening in a broken fence.

Cry in their neft, and think her long away ;
Arid at each leaf that ftiri, each blaftof wind,
Cape for the food which they mull never find.

Behold the 'Itfpair,
By cuf^om and covetous pates,
Bjf gafi and opening of gates.
Tiiffcr's Uiijhandrj.
With terrours and wiih furies to the bounds
And cryftal wall of Iicav'n}- which, opening wide,
Roll'd inward, and a fpaciouara/' difclos'd
Into ilie walteful deep.
Miiion'i Puiadife Loft.
Bulhes are moft lalling of anv for dead hedgtrs, or
to mead gaft,
\f'.rtimcr'i Hujlar.drv.
that (hould make

Dryden.
Ai in a drought the fhiifty creatures cry.

And gape uiwn the gather'd clouds for rain.
Then firlt the martlet meets it in the Iky,

And with wet wings joys all the fcalhcr'd train.
Diyden.
3.

To defire carneftly

;

to crave ; with for.

To hef grim death appears in all hr.r Ihapei

up the hedge, and (land in the gaf before mc, lor
the land that I Ibould oot deUioy i(,
Rv^oi.

The hungry grave for her due tribu": ^upet. Venb,

To thy fortune be not thou

A breach.

.

Shakefpeare't Hamlet.

Tlic receptionof one is as
miflion of the other,

difii;rcnt

from the adfalls open

as when the earih

under the inclfions of the plough, and when it gapri
and greedily opens itfelf to drink in the dew ot heaven, or the refreftiments of a Ihower.
South.
The mouth of a little arterj' and nerve i;apfi into
the cavity of tliefe veficlcs.
Chejns's Phil. Prin,

To open with a breach.

7.

The planks their pitchy coverings wafli'd away.

Now yield, and now a yawning breach dilplay
The roaring waters, with a hoiiile tide,
Rufli through the ruins of hsx gaping fide.
That ail

;

Dry Jin.

thefc a^lions can

be performed by aliplain, by obfervhig
the eftVifts of different fubitances upon the fluids ana
folids, when the veffels are open :inigape by a wound.

ment, as well as medicines,

is

Atbuthnot.

To open

to have an hiatus.
There is not to the bell of my remembrance, one
vowel gaping on another for want of a caefura in this
poem.
Dtyden.
9. To make a noife with open throat.
And, if my mufe can through p,ift ages fee.
That noify, naufeous, gaping fool is he. Rofcommorr.
8.

.1

(lave;

Tor what haft thou lo tear bcyoni Uie grave ?

;

;

^

^

To ftare with hope or expeftation.

Others will gape t' anticipate
The cabinet deiigns of fate ;

Apply to wizards, to forefee
What Ihall, and what lliall never ii^.
Hudiirai,
11. To ftare with wonder.
Parts ef different fpecies jumbled together, according to the mad imaginalioii of the dawber: and the"
end of all this to caufe laughter
a very moiiller in
a Bartholomew fair, for the mob to g<7^<f jr, Dryd.
Where elevated o'er the gaping crnyid,
Clafp'd in the board the perjur'd head is bow'd.

Betimes retreat.

12.

Gay't Trivia,

To ftare irreverently.
They have gaped upon me with their mouth.
yoi, xvi. itJ.

Some men there are love not a gaping pig
Some, that are mad, if they behold a cat. Shakefp.
Gaping or yawning, and ftretching, do pafs from
man to man; for that that caufelh gaping and

This is a gentle proved ; feldom, when
Tlie ftecled gacJrr u the friend ol men. Shaieff.
I know not how or why my furly gaoler.
Hard as his irons, and infolent as pow*r
When put jr. vulgar hands, Cleanthes,

though hell iifcif fhould^<7^e

The great liotfc-muflel, with the fine Ihell, do'h

Dryd.

To

committed.

my noble father's perfon,

:

Lejtey.

ing interftices between the teeth.
The reeve, miller, and cook, are dittinguilhed from
each oiher, as much as the mincing lady priorefi and

Davies,
Xouli.

Who

.>

Gap-toothed. adj. \gapznA. toolh.] Hav-

What life our fouls do by this death receive.

Keeper of a

To make defence

aflume

gape and Ihut as the oyftcrs do. Bacon's N.1I. HiH.

10.

Sivift.

Tojland in the Ghr.

9.

GAoL'DELlVEiy. n.f, \gat)l xnii deliver.
The judicial procefs, which by condem-

z,

to efcape

His policy confifts in felting traps.
In finding ways and means, and Jlopplng gaps.

To

Gualing vagabonds was chargeable, pcfterous, and
of no open example.
Baton.

Men would it birth of gaol-d<i'fuery call.

Pope.

by foine
alluding to hedges mended
is

it

I

in f^x^ech

during the pronunciation of two fupceflive
vowels.
The hiatus, ox gap between two words, is caufed

but,,
their

Saulh,

May that ground gupr, and fwallow me alive.
Where (hall kneel to him thatflew my father. Sh,

S-wifi.

7. An opening of the mouth

;

fought for a man, fays Cod,

It

I'll fpcak to it,

And bid mc hold my peace.

den furprifing fcnlcnce; another is more dexterous in
fecondiiig ; a third can fill tlie gap with laughing.

Hudihras.
And favour ftrongly of ;hc gan*.a't,
GAOL. »./. [>«.', WelOi; geoU, French.]
A prifon a place of confinement. It is
always pronounced and too often written
Jail, and fomctimes gMt.
Then am I the prifoner, and his bed my gaol,

had

To open in fiffiires or holes.

6.

One can revive a bnguilhiiigconverfalion by a I'ud-

a virtuofo was fabled to be carried to the
lunar world.

church revenues;

before they 'could fv.allow them, have
mouths ftopppd in the church-yard.

Spenfer.

Any interftice; a vacuity.
Each one demand, and anfwer to his part
Perform 'd in this \\.Acg.ip of lime, fince liift
We were dilfever'J. Shjkcfpeare's PVinter't 'TaU
That 1 might lleep out this great gap of time
my Antony is away. Shakefpean's Ant. .mJCleap.
To make 'tw ixt werds and lines huge gttps,
Wide as meridians in maps.
Hudihras.

6.

Ga'nza. »,/. [^ganfa, Spanifh,

1

Many \yvit. gaped at the

Mar,:.

Young gentlemen arc driven with a whip,

I.

could wilii it vvei-e well liopl.

you violently proceed againft him, miftakirg
his purpoie, it would make a great gap in vour honour.
Stakf/p. King Lrar.
Nor is it any botch or gaf in the works 01 uaiure.

minal running between the ranks receives
a lafh from each man.

for punilhmcnt.

L'Efirange,

With at.

5.

If

to run,

Gaoler. »./. [from gaol.]

What lliall we fay of thofe who fpend tlieir days
in gaping after couit-favour and preferments ?

A hole; a deficiency.

5.

A military punifhment, in which the cri-

A

which though then
was well intended^ and perhaps well dcfcrvcd, yet

Dryd.

With after.

now fiich a gap of miilhief lies open' thereby, that
1

»./.

For I would whifper fomewhat in thy ear.
4.

So ftinds the Thracian herdfman with his fpcar
Fl'U in the gap and hopes the hunted bear,

And hears hins rutlling in the woodt
Drydeti.
An avenue; an open way.
/|.
The former kings ot England paiFrd into them a

are made

to luftrate the bounds of parifhes.

AnJ thou, who gap'ft for my eftate ; draw near;

Any paflage.

3.

Ro-

'igatig z.nA -jieek.\

when proceffions

GAR

The loft *f that city concerned the

Xj&'iKGa.i.KOVS. aJ/. [fiom gaM^refK."] Mor-

Ga'per. ».y. [from gape.]

One who opens his mouth.
One who ftares foolilhly.
3. One who longs or craves.
1.

2.

'1 he golden fliowcr of the diffolved
abbey-lanili
rained well near into every g-a/iez-'r mouth. Carfw.

Gar,

in

Saxon,

fignifies

Eadgar is a happy weapon

a
;

weapon

fo

Ethegar, a

noble weapon.
Gib/on's Camden,
To G AVt , 11. a. [gi^ra, Iflandick.] To caufe
It is ilill ufed ir»
Obfolete.
to make.
Scotland.
Tell me, good Hobbinol,

v.-h3t gars thee greet?

.

What! hath fome wolf thy tender iambs ytorn ?
Or is thy bagpipe broke, that founds f» fweet ?
Or art thou of tiiy loved lafs forlorne.
Spenfer,
Garb. »./. [garbe, PVcnch.J
Drcfr. ; cloatlis ;; habit.
Tu.i KUal, with words cloath'd in reafon's^'.ir^,
Cot-'hci'd ignoble eafe and peaceful floth.
Mi/ton.
He puts himfelf into ihs garb and habit of a pro.
feflor of phyfick, and fets up.
L'lJIiange,
2. Fathion ef drefs.
Horace's wit, and Virgil's ftatc,.
lie did not Ileal, but emulate}
a
And
J
1.

'

O

'

And when he would like them appear,

Their gari, but not their cloatlis-did wear. D<nb.

Exteriour appearance.

3.

'1

hij is fome fellow.

compofition
3. Gardin is often ufcd in
for hortenfis, or belonging to a garden.
Mould fit for a garden.
4. Garden-mould.
They delight moft in rich black garden-mould,

Who having been prais'd for bluntnefs, doth affeft

Ga'rdage. ». / [garbfar, Spax^ini. This
the offal ; that part of the
inwards which is feparated and thrown

The bowels

The clored will.

Peas and beans are what belong to garden-tillage
Mortimer 'i Hujbandry.

Both hll'd and running, ravening firil the lamb.
Shaktff fare's Cymi.
Longs after for the gt^iigt
Luft, though to a radiant angel link'il,

Will late iifelf in a celcftial bed.
Sbakefftare'i Hamlet.
And prey on gariaie.
A flam nwre feiifeleft than the fog'ry
Of old Arufpicy and aug'ry.
ir j'l
Hudtbras,

Gardtn-rtuare. The produce of gardens.
A clay bottom is a much more pernicious foil for
Mtotimer.
trees and garden-v.are than gravel.

garbage.
to your confel&r. that parcel of guts and
Drydtrt.

A plant next the keel of a
Bailey.

(hip.

cultivate a garden ; to lay out gardens.
At finl, in Rome's poor age.
When both her kings and confuls held the plough,
Ben Jobnfon's Catiline.
Or garden' dvitW.
When ages grow to civility and elegancy, men
come to build ftauly, fooner than to garden finely)
Baeon.
as \\ gardening were the greater perfettion.

Ga'rdener. n. f. \irom garden,']

He that

are gardtners ;

fo that if

we plant nettles,

Bacon's Natural Hift.
have fown onions or turnips.
The gardener may lop religion as he pleafes.

The life and felicity of an excellent gardener is

All (havings of horns, hoofs of cattle, blood, and
Mortimer.
garbldge, is good manure for land.

preferable to all other divcrfions. Evelyn's Kalendar.
Then let the learned fard'ner mark with care
The kinds of Uocks, and what thofe kinds will bear.

In Newfoundland they improve their ground with
Morii-rrer's Hufiandry.
the gartijb of 6lh.

To GARBLE, -r.

To fift

;

a.

to part ;

[garbellare,

from the bad.
But you who failiers and traditions take.
And giiri/r fome, and fome you quite forfnke. DryJ.
Had our author fct down this command, wiiluut
garbling, as God gave it, and joined mother to f.i.
Loete.
had made direOly againll him.
The underftanding works to collate, combine, and
garble the image' and ideal, the imagination and
thcr,

it

'

'('hcyrre.

memory prcfent to it.

\itom garhh.'] He who
feparates one part from another.
A farther fecret in this claufe may beft be difco-

Ga'r.bler.

ff.

Drydtn.

Ga'rd?nikc. »./. \itom garden.

/.

My con-.pofitions in gardening arc after the Pinand run into the beautiful niUnefs
of nature, without affeftiiig the nicer elegancies of
Spectator.
art,

darick manner,

Coarfe wool growing on the
Dia.
of (beep.
Ga'rcarism. n.f. [y«fv«;i<r/Ai>5 ; gnrgarijme, French.] A liquid form of medicine
Sluincy.
to walh the mouth with.

Care. n.f.
legs

^tf^/ro, Italian.]

;

Hanmer.

Look here,' and at thy fovcrcigji leifure read
Shakefp.
Whatgjri»'Vj Ihc awak'd.

Card. «. /.

GA'RDElM. n. /.

[gtirdJ,

Welth; jardin,

Ga'rcet, n.f.
To

I

-v.

Ital.

a.

tlie

head, maw, or in the
M-jrtimcr'i HitJl>.i>iJry.

[^gargouitkr,Yx<:r\i:\\ ;

gurgel,

German,

am arriv'd from fruitful Lombardy,

The jilcaTaat garden of great luly.

Sbokefi,.

lord.

ll\.

Then party-coloured flow'rs of while and red
She wove, to make a garland for her head. Dryi.
Vanquilh again ; though Ihe be gone,

Whofc garland crown'd the vidot's hair.

And reign;. though (he hasieft the throne.

Who made thy glory worth thy care..

Prior*

Her gods and godlike heroes rife to view,

And all her faded garlands bloom ane.v.

The top; the principal

z.

;

Pope..

the thing moft

prized.

With every minute you do change a miod,.

And call him noble, ihat was now your hate.
Him vile, that was your garland.
Sbaieff,
GA'RLICK. n.f. IsajT, Saxon, a lance;,
and Itek, the leek that flioots up in blades.
Skinner.

Alliinn,Y.zV.]

has a bulbous root, confifKng of m^ny fmjll
the leaves are plain :
tubercles included in its coats
It

:

the flowers confiil ol fix leaves, farmed into a corymbus on the tcp of the (talk ; and are fucceedcd by

fubrotund fruit, divided into three cells, which contain roundifli feeds.
Millet.
Garliciiioiaa extremely ftrwig fmell, and of an
It is extremely afiive, as
acrid and pungent lalfe.
may be proved by applying plaillers of garlick to the
feet,

which will give a ftrang fmell t* the breath.

Ga'lick has, of all our plants, the jreateft ftrength^
mod iiourilhment, and fvpplies moft (pirits to
Temple.
'Tis mortal fin an onion to devour;
Eaeh clove of garliek is a facred pow'r
Religious nations fure, and blell abodes,
Where cv'ry orchard is o'5r-run with gods.
Tatt.

affords

thofe who cat little flcfh.

G^'ntJCK Pear-tree. n.f.
common in Jamaica, and
America, where it ufually
rifes to the height of thirty or forty feet, and fpieads
This tree

is

pretty

I.

Ga'rlick ^//</. n.f. A plant.
Garlicke ATER. n.f. [garlt'ci and tat] A
mean fellow.
You've made good work.
You and your apron men, that flood fo much

To wadi the throat with fome liquour

Upon the voice of occupation, and

not fuffered immediately to dcfcend.

The breath of garlickratcrs. Hbahfpeare's Coricl.
u. y, [gnarvimeni, old French.
.t R M E N T
]
Any thing by which the body is covered ;

G

Cargte twice or thrice with Iharp oxycrate.
Httrvey,
The exciflon made, the bleeding will foon be llopt
by g rglifig with oxycrate.
IVifcmatt' s Stfgfy.
They comb, and then they order cv*ry hair
Drydcn's Per/.
Next gargle well their throats.
£.

til

has a rough brownilh rind, and a mealy fwcct pulp,
Miller.
but a ftrong fcent of garlick.

the

To warble ; to play in the throat.
improper ufc.

An

Tliofc which only warble long.

And gargle in their throats a fong.

U'aller.

So tliarm'd you were, you ccas'd a while to doat
On naiifenfc g.irgUd in an eunuch's throat, lenti^n.

Ga'rci.e. »./. [from the verb.] A liquour
with which the throat is wufhed.
His throut war, walVicd with one of the gargles fel

ful

?

throat.]

My lord of Ely, when I was lall in Holbourn,

A place particularly fruitful or delight-

GARGLE,

ga-grjgliare,

llotJir.

A dillemper in cattle.

The garget appears in
hinder parts.

Sbaiejpeure.

2,

do'ft

!

!

When the flowers fall off the
into many branches.
pointal, it becomes a round fruit, which when ripe*

Thy promifcs are like Adonis' gardem,
which out day bloom'd aud Iruittul were ihe reir.

Hiate/p. Rid. HI.

'Till Richard wear the garland oi the realm.

— How wear the garland
thou mean ths
crQwn
— Ay, mygood
Sbakefpeare's Richard

Bacon.
hibiteth the motion of the fpirit.
This being relaxed, may make a fliaking of the

for plcafure.

In the roy.il ordering o( gardens, there ought to
Bucott.
1>e gardifis for all the months in the year,
In every garden Ihouid be provided Howers, fruit,
nud
water,
Timfte.
Jhade
}>ly gjrdcji tikes up half my daily care.
And my field aflts the minutes 1 can fpare. H.irte.

Sidntf,

A reeling world will never itand upright,

fcveral other places

A

1 (aw good llrawberries in joar gaidtn there.

For he then chofen was the dignity

Of village-lord that Whitfuntide to bear.

Vinegar, put to the noftrils, or gargarifed, doth
eafe the hiccough ; tor that it is aftringent, and in-

French; giardluo, Italian.]
piece of ground inclofed, and culti1.
vated with extraordinary care, planted
wftJi herbs or fruits for food, or laid out

Strephon,. with Icayy twigs of laurel-tree^.

A j-ar/dni/ made, on temples for to wear;

[yafyafi^o'; garga-

larynx ; as when we gargarix^.

[garde, French.] Wardlhip;

care; cuftooy.

a.

French.] To wa(h the mouthwith
medicated liquors.

garDiforderj tumult; up-

roar.

GaRGARi'ze. oi
ri/er,

Mortimer..

G'A'rlakd. n.f. [garlande, guirU>td,Fl.^.
I. A wreath of branches or flowers.

Apophlegmatifms atii gargari/ms draw the rh>um
Bacon's Natural Hijlory.

7'o

daggering, and lof».

.

of appetite.

down by the palate.

vered by the projeftors, or at leall the garhteri of it.
Sipift*! Examiner,

Ga'rboJL. »./. [garbottille, French

The

'\

aft of cultivating or planning gardens.

Italian.]

to feparate the good

down of the kead, moift eyes,

or fow

Sbake/fe.ire.
lettuce, the power lies in our will.
Gardeners tread down any loofe ground, alter they

A difteraper in hogs.

The Cgns of the gargol in hogs are, hanging

Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills

Ga'rbidge. «./. Corrupted from jf/jr%c
Ga'rbish. »./. Corrupted from ^ar^/2^f.

Ga'rgol. »;/.

Ts

attends or cultivates gardens.

On holy garbage, though by Homer cooV'd ? Rofc.
When you rective condign punilhment, you run

Ga'rbel. «./.

6.

or the like, whidc

indurates into a hard immoveable tumonr.-

as well as that of the field.

To Ga'rden. t: «. [from the noun.]

That fatiate, yet unlatisfy'd defire, that tub

That of f<ar*a|;« of cattle
Ptefag'd ih' events of truce or battle.
Who, without averfion, ever look'd

culti-

vating gardens.

;

away.

Tillage ufed in

Garden-tillage.

5.

etymology is very doubtful.]
I.

Mortimer.

than clay.

Shakefftare'x King Lear.

juice from a bruife,

that is deep and light, and mixed rather with fand

A faucy roughnefs, and conftrains the garb
Quite troro his nature.

GAR

GAR

GAR

tfl/enun's Surgery.
down in the method of cure.
Ga'rolion. n.f. An exfudation of nervous

cloaths ; drefs.
Hence, rouen thing, or I (hall (hake thy boacs
Sbakefp. Curiolanus.
0\xioi \Wj gJrmenls.
Ourleat, once fillcn, fpringeth no more; neither
doth the tun or fuminer adorn us again with the
garments of new leaves and flowers. Rahigb't Hi/f.
Fairell thing that flii-ies below.
Why in this robe dolt thou appear ?
Would'll thou a while more petfc^ (how.
Thou muft at all no garrnem wenr.
Cow/ty.
Tliree worthy per ions from his fide it tore.
And dy'd his garment with their fcattcr'd gore.
H'aUrr.
The peacock, in all his pride, does not difplay
half the colours that appear in the garmrnts of a
Erttilli lady when the is dtefled.
Aadifin's SfeCi.
Let

GAR

GAR
let him that fues for the coat, I. e. the (hifti 6f
inner garment^ take the cI^-'< alfo, is a proverbial
phrafe too; for in the truth of the letter, a (hirt is
DO likely matter of a lawfuit, and (ignifies anunconKeltlmxll.
tefting fuSerance of fueh fmall loffes.

GA'RNER. n./. [gnemtr, French.] A place
in ivhich threftied grain is ftored up.
Earth's increafe, and loyfon plenty,
ver empty.
Sbakefpeare.
Barns and garnert
For fundry foes the rural realm furround;
The fieldmoufe b-.MJai hep ^r>rrr under (round !ne blind laborious mole.
For gather'd gr^;
In winding mat- works her hidden hole.
DryJ.
t,

Brown.
Ga'rran. »,/. [Erfe. It imports the fame
as gelding.
The word is ftill retained in
Scotland.]
Afraallhorfe; a hobby.
A

Highland horfe, which, when brought
into the North of England, takes the
name of gaZ/tnuay.
When he comes forth, he will make their cows

To

[from the noun.]
ftore as in Rimers.
a.

and garram to walk, if he doth no other harm to
their perfons.
Spmfer.
Every man would be forced to provide Winterfodder for his team, whereas common garranz Oiift
upon grafs the year round ; and this would force men
to threncloling of grotiiKls, fo that the race of garnini
would decreafe.
Tcmflr.

There, wh^rc I have ^arffcrV up my heart,
Whcrecithcri muft live, or bearno li I'e.
Sbaif/f).
Ga'unet. n./. [garnalo. Italian ; granatm,

low Latin : from its refeniMance in colour to the grain o! the pomegranate.]
The garnet is a gem r.r a middle degree of hardnefs, between the faphire and the common cryftai.
toond of various lizes.
Its furfaces are not fo
ftnooth or polite as thofe of a ruby, and its colour
is ever of a llrong red, with a plain admixture of
blacilh : its de?ree o! colour is very different, and
it always wants much of the brighmcrs of the ruby.
It

.

A room on the higheft floor of the
hoafe.

The mob, commifTion'd by the government,
Arc feljom to an empfy garret lent.
Dryden.
John Bull fkipped iroin room to room ; ran up
ftairsand^dewa flairs, from the kitchen to x.\\t garret.
Arluthmt'i "Jiha Bull.
On earth the god of wealth was made

Hill.

of the ancients ; the Bohemian i^ red, with a Hight
and the Syrian is red, with
a llight call of purple.
H-'oeJivai d' i Mil. Foffili.

calk oi a flame-colour ;

Sole patron of the building trade ;

To OA'KNI.-H. v. a. [garmr. rrench.]
hills

With licence to build callles there

The colour of the fhi.ning
by daylight,
pieces

Sfenfet.

With taper light
Is wafleful and ridiculntis excefs.
^hitkejbeare,
Paradife was a temflrial garden, garnijhid with
fruits, delighting both (he eye and the lal^.

Raletgb.

All the ftrcets were garnlfird with the ciiizcns,

2,

With what expence and art, how richly drcfl
Carn/Jh*d wiih 'fparagus, himfclf a tealt
Dr\J.
!

No man lards fat pork with orange-peel,
Or garnijhtt his lamb with Ipitcbcock'd eel.
King'i Ctminy.

A cant tcrmi.

To fit with fetters.

Ga'rnish. «./. [from the verb.]
1. Ornament
decoration ; embclli(hment.
;

So arc you, fweet,

tv'n in ths lovely gjrnijh of a bey.

which they call

fince

/"o

from gar>iijh.'\ Or-

nament; embellifhmcnt.

and gajb with it : but to carve a beautiful image re-

of tongue

found piece of good an, where the mateiiaU being
ordinary ftone, wiihjut any gumijitmint olfv.ulpiurc,
ravifh the bcholdcis.

tfLtloii

[(torn garai/^]

Fur-

ornament.

They conclude, if they fall Ihort in garniiuri ol
their knees, that ihey ai« inferiour in lurnitupe ol
tlieir heads.

G<n/. 0/ Tongue.
PU.ii fcnfc, which pleas'd your fues an age aj9.

Is lofl, without the garniture of (how.

Crjnvillr.
As nature has poured out her charms j>on the
female part of our fpecier,
iliry are very .tTiJuout
in belfowin^ ugoa thcmfclvcs the fineft garniiurrs

h

Addijin'i ^I'teiM^r,

liilotJoH,

quires art.

See me gafi'd with knive.';.
Ro-we's Royal Cmv.
Or fear'd with burning lieel.
Streaming with blood, a'.l over gajh'd with wounds,'
He reel'd, he groan'd, and at the altar fell, i'bilips.

Gash. k./. [from the verb.]

A deep and wide wound.

I.

He glancing on his helm t, made a large
And o^agafij therein ; were not his targe.
That broke ihe violenie of his intrnt.

The weary foul from thence it would dif.i; :irge.
.^perfer.

A perilous ^<'./?i. a very limb lopt olT.

Shake/p.

Hamilton drove Newton almolt to the end of ihc
bit Newion on a fudden pave him fuch ^ gaJb
lifls
on tlic leg, that therewith he fell to the ground.
tiayutard.-

;

:

But th' ethereal fubftance clos'd
Not long divihbic and from the g.ijh
A llrcara of nedtarous humour ilTuing tlow'd.

Miltun'i Agnnifte!.

The quality of talking too much

;

;

talka-

tivenefs.

The chufxrh of Saii.tta Guill:niaoa.in Padoua is a

Hay-ward.

Wit is a keen inflrument, and every one can cut

Let me here

2.

to brag ; to blufter.

Where the Engliflimen at arms had been defeated,
many of iheir horli^s were found griivoufly g.tjhtd or

inability to keep a fecret.
Expatiate, if pofTiblc, my crime.

[from the noun.J

ftrument fo as to make the wound wide.

GARRU'LITY. »./. [garrulilat, Latin]

Shameful garrulity.

».

Skinner.]
'\o cut deep fo as to make a
gaping wound ; to cut with a blunt i.-i-

Others thofe forces join.

Ahifnvorlh.

;

t;.

gored to death.

tion for its defence.
Some of them that are laid in garrifon will do
no great hurt to the enemies.
Sfienfer on Irelatid,
To Ga'rrison. "v. a. [from the noun.J To
fecure by fortrcfles.

inconiincnce

Xivi/t.

left you ?

To boaft

How oft he faid to me.

Loquacity ;

I

G ascona'de.

To G.ASH. .<v. a. [from hacher, to Cut, Fr.

#

ment in money when firll a prifoner jjocs

ti •!«.

in

An in-

[ftorn garret.]

into a gaol.
a/k N I iH M F N r. ». /^

J

wood,
fome
the white
Bacon.

and

Thou art no foldier fit for Cupid's garrifon. Sidney.
2. Fortified pl.tce ftored with foldiers.
Whom the old Roman wall fo ill confin'd.
With a new chain of ^arrrfcnt you bind.
IVaUer,
3. The ftafe of being placed in a fortifica-

1.

A boaft j

Was it a gafconade to pleafe me, that you faid
your fortune was increafcd to one hundrad a year

Szui/i.

Dryd. Jut:

Fetters.
A cant term,
3. [In gaols.]
Penjiuncula carceraria ; an acknowledge-

niture

Bani't.

a bravado.

to defend it.

ii.

Ga'rnituke. n. f.

feems defigned to fignify, in general, a
fpirit not capable of being coagulated :
but he ufcs it loofely in many fenfes.

Which garrift,a the coiKjuclls near the Rhine.
Prior,

fl^i/eman's Stirgerf.

'1 he
bulk •{" the body nieal'ured by the girdle.
Gas. n.y. [A word invented by the chymifts.]
It is ufed by Van Helmont, and

Soldiers placed in a fortified towaor caftle

1

Sbaktfp.

They feek to feed .ind pleafe their gneils.
2. Things ftrewcd round a difti.

[

gartering place.

GA'RRISON. »./. [giirri/ott, French.]

Matter and figure they produce (
For garn/Jb this, and that for ufe

G

Shulief.

A pcrfnn was wounded in the leg, below the

part of rotten

pieces white,

inclining to red,

n. /.

future times his father's place.

He, being in love, could not fee io garter his hofe.

habitant of a garret,

To embellifli a difh with fomething laid
round it.

X.

in fome

Garrrte'er.

B*icon*'j Htnry VII.

ftaruling in their liveries.

is

ill

a nation eminent for boatting.]

and red garret*

To feek the beauteous eye of heav'n to garnijb^

You owe your Ormond nothing but a fon.

To fill

And wear the gar:er of his inoihei's race. Dryden.
3. The principal king at arms.
To Ga'rter. -v. a. [from the noun.] To
bind with a garter.

:

To lodge in garretj, comes from thence.
Rotten wood. Not in ufe.

l>id breathe out bounteous fmelli, and painted colours
fliew.

—

The george, profan'd, hath loll his holy honour;
The^arrer, blemilh'd, pawn'J his knightly virtue.
S/jak. R. IIJ.

2.

That, when mild Zephyrus amongil iliem blew,

.

Now by my gcorge, my garter.

And 'lisconceiv'd their old pretence.

which garnijhtd their proud

heights with ftately trees.
Sidnrj.
All wiihin with flowers was garn'tjbrd^

There lay three garters, half a pair of gloves,

And all the trophies of his former loves.
Fofe.
2. The mark of the order of the garter, the
higheft order of Engli(h knighthood.

GASCONA'DE. «./. [French; fromGff>«,

Leaving the arTs the fpacious air.

To dccordte witli ornamental appendages.
There were

Ray.
Sivi/t.

Garth, n.f. [as if girth, fromgirii.]

citadel, French.]
1.

ligatures, to give the fpirits free pallage.

Handfome garters at your knees.

GA'RRET. ». / [garite, the tower of a

is

The garnet feems to be a fpecies of the carbuncle

1.

' and other

reparation.

.

- .

When we reft in our cloaths we loofen our g.trt.rs,

Refcmbling

In a civet-cat an offenfive odour proceeds, partly
from its food, that being efpccially fifh ; whereof
this humour may be a garous excretion, and olidous

.

yi G a'rn rX.

GAS

Ga'rouj. adj. [from ^ar«/a.]
pickle made of fiftj.

Some vices of fpeech muft carefully be avoided
flrft of all, loquacity or garrulity.
Hay on the Creat.

2.

The mark of a wouiid,

M^t.

I know not if

:

Ga'rruloi/s. «^. [^rtf/w/tt/, Latin.] Prattling ;

talkative.
Old age looks out,

this be proper.
ard I
1 was lond ol l>ack-fword and cudfel phv,
now btar in my body many a black and blue gap
and fear.

Arbaiiinol.

GA'sKtNi. «. f. [from Gafecignr. See GalAnd garruloul recounts the feats of youth.
Thorn/.
ligaskins.] Wide hole ; wide breeches.
Gv'RIEK. »./. [ga-di„.^e\[\\;jarti(r,
An (>ld hidifrotis word.
French ; from gar. VVelfli, the binding of
If one point break, the other vill hold ;
the knee. J
Shairff.
Or, ii boih break, your j^j/i/ffj f;iil.
1. A firing or ribband by which the ftock
t. v. \Uovn go}e, Skinmr; from
Gasp.
To
iiig is hdd upon the leg.
gi/pe, Danifh, to fob, jtiniui.]
I.ct their heads be lleekly comb'i], their blue
Wti brulh'di aud ihcir gartrn nl an indilTcrent knit. I. To open the mouth wide; tocatch breath
itiai, Tumivg oftlu Hireie.

with labour.

TlM

GAT

G A.T
Dry Jen
The Cck for lir before the portal guff.
They riit'd * feebhtrv with ttembliim notes;
But the wejk voice decclvM ihc'u gn/ping throats.

The gf/fiitg head flics off} a purple flood
DryJtit't yE».
tlows fiom us trunk.
The ladies g^/f'ttt »nd fcarceljr could refpire
The breath ihey dicw no longer air, but 6re. DiyJ.

A

DryJen.
ing beneath a heap of rubbifh.
The rich countrymen in Auftria were faint and

Brnun's travtls.

toffing for breath.

Pale and faint,
He g.»^' forbieaih ; and, as his life flows from him,
AddiJ^nU Cata.
Demaiids to fee his friends.

I

lay me down tog.iff<

my lateft breSth

'

;

Drydtn's JEn.

To long for. This fenfe is, I think,
not proper, as nature never cxpreffes dcfire

M

by gafoing'.

demanded a xao&. exorbitant price for their ranfom.

'

;

the

2.

.

Ah, Warwick, Montague hath breath'd his laft j
And to the lateft ga(f cry 'd out for Warwick. &hak.

If in the dreadKl hour of death,
of breath,
) Jf at the lateft
When the coll Jamp bcifws your brow.

•

to fear ; to affray.

When he faw mybeft alarm'd fpirits
Bold in the quarrel's rii;lir, rous'd to the encounter,
Or whether gcfl^d by the noife I made.
Full fuddenly hj tied.
S6.iiff tare's King Lear.

«;Ga'strick. a(/;' [from y«f>;f .]

Belonging

to the belly.

Xjastro'raphy. n.f. [v»7y^ and f«T7-«.]
In ftridnefs of etymology fignifies no
more than fewing up any wountl of the
belly ; yet in common acceptation it implies, that the wound of the belly is
complicated with another of the intelline.
Sharp's Surgery.

'GaSTRo'toMY. n.f.

[v«rD» and Tirana. J

The aft of tutting open the belly.
Gat. fhc preterit ot'get.
Mj(ci gal lum up into the mount.

£x. xxiv. i3.

To pay the creditor, that lent him
muft galber up money by degrees.
4. To crop ; to pluck.
What have 1 done ?

Gain at moaarchs
Are arth'd fo high, that giants may jet through.

And keep their impious lurbands on, without
Gjod-motrow ta the fun.

Afli one, who by repeated reftraints

,

To heap up

6.

;

-poor.

filling of it.

Ga'ther. n.f. [from the verb.] Pucker;
cloth drawn together in wrinkles.
Give laws for pantaloons.

to accumulate.

gather it for him that will pity the
Pi merit.

The length of breeches, and the gathers.
Part cannons, perriwigs, and feathers.

O

;

colleAor.
1 will fpend this preface about thofe from whom I
have gathered myknovvledge; -a \2Lm\t\iti gatherer
iVotton.
and difpofer of other men's itun'.

To fweep together.

\

a net that
was caft into the fea, tui gathered of every kind.

The kingdom of heaven is like unto

2.

Af^r. xiii. 47.

Amos,

Nor in that land

are
1 will gather others to him, befides thofe that
^. Ivi. 8.
galiered uato h\m.

To draw

Do poifonous herbs deceive the gatherer's hand.
May's yirg,

together from a ftate of diffu-

Ga'thf.rino. n.f, [from gather. \

fion ; to comprefs ; to con trad.
Immortal Tully flione,

'

The Roman roftra deck'd the ctnful's throne 1

'

Gaib'iing his flowing robe he fecm'd to ftand,
hand. Pope.
I n aft to Ipeak, and graceful ftretch'd his

Siakijpcan's Cym'-eiiHe.

[The etymology of this
word is uncertain :, .S/f/w/fr imagines it
may come from gaude. French, a yellow
flower, yeilow being the moft gaudy coJunius, according to his cuftom,
lour.

;

and footpath.

Shak.

Auftria hid done ii'thing but wifely and politickly,
in fetting th- Venetian- together by the ears with the
Tu - , and opening a gale for a long war. KiulUi.

T\k 'vnta fmita.

talks «7«»®- ; and Mr. Lye finds gtiude,
in Douglafs, to fignify deceit or fraud,
from g'uiavidio, Welfli, to cheat. It feems

Hooker.

law.

The reafon that I gather he is mad,

to mc moft eafily deducible from gaudium,
Latin, joy ; the caufe of joy ; a token of
joy : thence aptly applied to any thing

Is a mad tale he told to-Jay at dinner.
Of his own door being (liut againft his entrance. Shak.

After he had feen the vifion,
into Macedonia,
Lord had called us.

we endeavoured to

aliuredly gatbtriig ilial

ilie

From this doftrine of the increafing and Icflfening
of fm in this refped, we may gather, that all tins

an opening.

A fpecies of Cor-

GAUDE. n, f.
Dryd.

ference.

it

n.f,

nelian cherry.

To pucker needlework.
To coUeft logically to know by in-

13.

Col-

lection of charitable contributions.
Let every one lay by him in llore, that there be no
gatherings vi\i^xi\ come.
1 Cor. xvi. 2.

Ga'tten-tree.

To gain.

12.

One that gets in a cn^p of any kind.
I was a herdman and a gatherer of fycamore fruit*

9. To colleft charitable contributions.
10. To bring into one body or intereft.

1 1

Hudihras,

Ga'thereR. n.f. [{zom gather.'^
one that collects; a
1. One that gathers

Ixird, and galber us from among the
Save us,
heathen, to give thanks unto th^ holy name.
Pf. cvi. 47.

8.

no lefs happy than the eafe of a
after tlie painful ga:hering and
Vicay of Piety.

broken impofthume

^

To felea and take.

7.

hath fubdued

how he hkes the change, and he

his natural rage,
will tell you 'tis

7"*All the way we went there were gathered lome
Bacon.
people on both fides, ftandiiig in a row.

me.

a paffage into incioi'ed grounds.
jCnow'ft thou the way to Dover ?

(Ga'tsvein. »./>

To generate pus or matter.

4.

To alTemble.

get

;

There be three things that mine heart !>ircth j
the fiander of a city, the gathering together of a»
unruly multitude, and a falfe accufation. EccUf.xx.\\.^»

Nofoonergain'd, but flighted andbetray'd;
And like a roie'yafigather'd from the ftalk.
But only fmelt, and cheaply thrown afide,
To wither on the ground Dryden's Spanifh Fryar.

A frame of limber upon hinges to give
ftile and gale, horl'cway

To aflemble.

3.

'

men probably gathering to be expedient, they make

I

My foul fiie» through Ihele wounds to feck thee. Siai.

An avenue

the people came in to them.

That which, out of the law of rcafon or of Cod,

Oocn the galr of mercy, gracious God

—Both

Their fnow-ball did not gather as it went; for
Bacon's Henry Vil«

Ltcke.

To fee my youth, my beauty, and my love

14.

large building.

J.

matter.

He gathers ground upon her in the chace j

The door of a city, cattle, palace, or

2.

To grow larger by the acretion of finular

2.

'f^^'f'his rent, he
,

Now breathes upon her hair with nearer pace.

GATE. n.f. [jeat, Saxon ]
1.

South, Eaft, and Weft, on airy courfers bor'n.
The whirlwind gathers, and the woods are torij.Oryrf.
Think on thcilorm thit gathers o'ei your head,
And threatens every hour to burlirupun it. Addifort,

10.

I
I will fpend this preface upon thofe from whom
have gatiend my knowledge ; for 1 am but a ga-

fubftance, Ihall

To makcaghaft; to fright
;

Dryd^

When the rival winds their quarrel try.
If. Ixji.

'

to ftiock ; to terrify

!

Shakeff.
Calber'd from all the famous colleges.
Caft up the highway, gather out the itones.

j^

Aghast.]

A

i-ev- »^». ^°'

He that by ufury and unjuft gain increafeth his

Addlfoit.
You hope for mere), Ihew it now.
See
.9'e Gasp. v. a. [from jaj-r, Saxon.

^
to thicken.

;

If ere night the gaih'ring clouds we fear,
DryJen^
fong will help the beating Horm to bear.
When galb'ring clouds o'erftiadow all the (kies.
And (hoot quick lightnings, weigh my boys he ctiej,

^

They have ^tiered themfelves together againft

Shakefftart' : Cymhtl'me.

It at la(lga/j>.

To l)e condenfed

1.

Have fatisfied the king for hisdivorce,

5.

His fortunes all lie fpeechlefs, and his name

Sfrnftr^

His opinions

laft

agonies.
1

'~^'"-

!

The IhoTt' catch of breath in

2.

"[o gather brtaih, in many miferies.

To Ga'theR. 11. n.

To get in harveft.
The fercnth year we fliall not fow. ni>r,e-.-.i"-' in

breath.
-

The luckleis lucky maid

A long time with that favagc people ftaiJ,

llones and made an

heap.

Gash. n.f. ffrom thererb.]
I. The a(S of opening the mouth to catch

.

— and they took

Gaiter ftones

SfeEiator,
'

caLimity

To GA'THER. v. a. [gabepan, Saxon.]
to bring into one place.
1. ;j'o colieft

therer.

The CaSrilian and his wife had the iJbfQrl to be
under the fame laaller. who, feeing how dearly they
Io»ed one another, and gaffed alter their liberty,

•

another.

Murlirmr'j Hufiandry.

3. To pick up ; to plean-

The vol«s will get a brciklaft by my death. Dryd.
He ftaggers round, hii eyeballs roll in death,
And with fliort fobs hcg^/ps away his breath.
t.

16.

are fo miry, Uiat

Catnuayi between inclofures

they cannot cartbctvycen one field and

our increafe.

convulfively.

To draw togethtf? is needlework.
\^. proverbial
To Gathkr hiiuth.
expreflion.]
To have relpite from any

5.

1

through gates of inclofed grounds.

To emit bi«ath by opening the mouth

2.

.

A way

Ga'tewat. n.f. [^ate and luay.}

Icaniling of wit ^^1 g-'/pi'g (°' l'ft> "ixl groan-

A U

'G

MadajnoifeUe de Scu^ery, whp is a,s ojd ja libyl,
is tranflating Chaucct; into French : from which I
gaibrr that he has formerly been tranflatcd ijila the
Dryden,
old Provenjal.

en.
Belwg a king that loved wealth, he coiiU not
condure to have trade lick, nor anv obftruiftion to
that blood.
tinue in t.\\e gale-vein which dilperfeih
Jiacon 'j Henry VII.

that gives or exprefles picafure.

ASls.

In Scot-

land this word is ftill retained, both as a
It
fliowy bauble, and the perfon fooled.
alfo in Scotland denotes a yellow flower.]
An ornament ; a fine thing ; any thing

are not alike and cqu.il, as the floicks of ancient

times, and their followers, have falfely imagined.
Perkins,

worn as a fjgn of joy.

Returo'd

By night, and liftening wlicre the haplefs pair

J t is

not now much

ufed.

I
Sat in their fad difcourfe, and varioui plaint,
Thence jjarirrV his own doom. Milton's Par, Lofi.

|

He dole th' imfcefCoa of bcr faDtaf/i
"With

G A V
With bracelets of thy hair, tinss, gMj(t,

G A U

To give mc audience.

To meafure with refpeft to the contents

I.

Ir melted as the fnow j fcems to me now
As the remembrance of an \i\e gaude.
Which in my childhood I did doat upon. Shakefp
'^r me bound for Guinea,
gc'den fand to find.

;

^'lon

""^^^"'^ '^''h regard to
anypropor-

rainifter to the

T.

Bryd

rV

To ex-

Go to a golfip's .iaft, vii gaude vhh me.
After fo long grief fuch nativity.

[fiota gauJe.]

a ftanaard.
This plate muft be a g<,ge to

but

groove to equal breadth

inftitutioas that ever

fJir"'''
""fhimfelf,
Irom
the owner

fnch«'hT
inches high

ShowZ.

•
,„vTl jurifdiaion;
fj'^"''
royal

man. Hbakefpeare

''"''" ^^"^ !>«" privileged with

2.

[As if^^..^„,. from

lorfleeping England long

"'

Is

my ftrift fart

,

1

„„„

T

erroneous education, be

m.de poor i„d gaudy <^.
tacksof the greatcft vanity.
'
j/^,

Dryd.

faft to-dav.

Gave.

'1 he
preterite of ^^t,r.
Thou can'il not everyday give me

Jf thou can '!» give it.

iron glove ufed for defence,

that

^

Feel but the difference, foft
and rough ;

This igauniiet, that a muff.

IV

Clewiand

Some (hall in fwifinefs for the goal

it.

Ga'vel. »./. a provincial word for
^^Ut It he upon the ground or ga-uel ground!

fand.

Drtd

Who naked wrcftkd beft, befmear'd

'

}

'

/Ga'velicind. ».7: [Inlaw.]
A cuftom
whereby the lands oKhe fathir

View 1.1, two^.«,w/rt.i

are equa%

divided at hi, death
amongft all
or the lanc^of the brother
equally divide,^
among toe brother,, if he have
no ilTue of

hXrl,

his o.v».
This cultom i» of
force in
d.v^r, places ol England,
but cfpeciMlK

m Kent.

f.

.

'

1
'

hat both his hands were

h\n.ga-.,ikmj.

Da-uUi on licUnd.

us'd to war.

I>,,v

Our vet-ran bard refumf s his iragitk
rage 5
He iliro*, the^<i*«/« Otway usd to
wield,
And calls lor Euglilhrnen tojudge the
field.

dance.
Jifpofition in a

fiddle to play tune,

in

of

pre-

^'':^"^' J'S'. ""Is-'X'Wi, are rcjl oualiiies

u'
n the
uiftrumcnt.

Gaf.

finery.

„,

[iy«T,s.a,„,

ArLih,,.,.

.

or rather

jepean, to fee, Saxtyi ] 7'o look intently,
and earnefl'y ; to look with eagernefs.
What fceft thou there? King Henry's diadem,

Inchas'd with all the honour.^! of
it fo,

ga:^ on.

the world :
Shakr/peare's HenYy IV. t^.

from fome (he cart her modelf eyes
below
At fome her^.(,w//^ glances roving flew.
pMrfax

^

y-":f not on a maid, that thou fall
not by iholi
tfmgs that are precious in lier.

;
A Ijvcr'seyes will ga^f an eagle blind.EccUf.w
nLk'tfp.
High (Nations tumults but not blifs
create ;
None think the great unhappy, but the
great.
\w^iga7Le on envy; Envy darts a iting,
VVhich makes a fwain as wretched
as a king. Younr.
10 {^AZf.<v.a. To view lledfafti'y.

'

Milu,n,

GA/.i.n.f. [from the verb.]
I. Intent regard;
look of eagernefs
wonder; fixed look.

-

or

r

Being lighten'd with her beauty's beam

And (hereby fill'd with happy influence,
And lilted upabovc the world is ga^.

To (Ing with angels her immortal pr.,iVc.
Do but note a wild and wanton hrrd,

'

.fpenfcr
J
'

•

Ifany air of mufick touch iheirears,
You (liall perceive them make a mutual
ftand,
Ihfir fav.ige eyes tuni'd 10 a
modell »^»f.
*
By the fwect power of mufick.
Sibak,rp
Not 3 month
'Fore your queen dyd.lhc
was mo« worth fuch
gazts
Than what you look on now.
Sbik^rp
'

With(ccrct/j,itf,

Or open admiration, him behold,

.

On whom ilic great Creator hath belVow'd
^°'^ii.

'

my wond'riiig eyes I turn'J,

,

S^uiiern

Oavot. *./ f^avoWf, French.] A kind
.'''«=

eiclo*ed, and the baftard,,
did ,.>herit ai well
a, the
'
Ufil.mate, which is the very

Ihefc declare

So to re^el the Vandals of the ftage,

.

morn.

.^nd gax'd awhile the ample (ky.

Orwho w,ih^a,r«/,«gave or took the with oil
foil.
Dryd
The funeral of fome valiant kni>;ht
May give this thing it, proper light

eight or ten

airily.

Splendidly; pompouily; with great
ihow.
1 he ladies, ^ay^dreli.'d, the !Vl.ill adorn
With curious dies, and paint the funny

Strait toward heav'n

contend.
And othrrs try the twanging bow to bend
j
1 he Itrong with uonguunikts
arm'd (hall Hand,
Uppos d in combat on the yellow

^"; I""' "'°"«'' ">)h«rfdepart,
L'"'"'*

CT,

and thrown

fometimes in
boxin.> glove

.,\f<'fhg'"""/'l now, with joint, of fteeU
Mult glove hi, hand.
Shak./p. Henry

thy hearts
then thou never ^«t/'^ if

1,
It-ftaysathome,
and thou withlofingfav'ft

It is

poetry ufed for the ce/u,, or

An

French.]

fga„fe/e/,

down in challenges.

rh.'"'

2.

;

Ga'uktlet. „./.
Oa'udv. «./ {gauJwm, Latin.]
A feaft''^

furs of a gaudy to-morrow.

trA YLV. adv.
1. Merrily: cheerfully;

To GAZE. 1:

ilenderly ; meagerly.

A word ufed

Deniam

Not much in ufc.

[hom gaunt.] Leanly;

e,d^.

To cxercife their minds, our age retires.

3. fint-ry ; Ihow.
porgayery and our guilt are all befmirch-J,
vvith rainy marching in the
paintul field.
Slairfp,

<^A VNiss. „./. [from^^y.J Gayety;

childrens

"'' erim. her flight purfu'd.
aZT(,
^Vl"!
And
oft their fa
faften'd
fangs in blood embtu'd

GA't/NTLY.

"'• [iV'f'. French; from^^r.J
Cheerfulnefs; airinefs; merriment.
Afts of juvenile pleafure.
And from thole ^;y'iv;« our youth requires

Like

:

iy

upon precepts
and pidurcs, the
tales.
L'Eflran,e

fome fair flow'r, that early fpring fuppli^s.
1 hai gay/y blooms, but ev'n
in blooming dies. Pope.

looks
And therein farting, thou ha!t
made me gaum
'" "•««"«. e-"""-" a grave,
wH"/
M. hofe r,,'
hollow womb inherit,
nought but bones.

I'hi'ips

'^'»"'«'. 'h'* frfin. fo naiura'ry
'i-^r"'il"'
qualified
to be great examples of pITty,
Ihould, by an

He niay furely be content ivith a

M„r f

jcannefs \iMgaurt, :
The Pl«rure that fome fathers
fe=d upo,.

than him who wanders afide to gaze at every thing,
or to gather every
"
guiuly Hower.

a feftival ; a day of plenty.

that is not

time have I watch'd;

Watching breeds leannefs,

man who walks direflly to his journey's
endj
W.I1 arrive -hither much fooner

in the univeriity.

„pa.

Morofe and untraftable fpiriis look

^'';^,'''^\1.

And who abilains from meat

Milnn.

iaw, with jaea^. pride
or painted p!ume«, that hopp'd from fide
to fide.

*

One whofe

.Sa.-. vi. q.

An orna-

in emblem, as they
do upongaj-s
looleries ot lo many old wives

or quantities.

:

I

A

a

Arbuth.

a tedious fait;

"^

before.

Fine; fliowy.

ment; an embellidiment.
.

h;>d prepared

man, to Idfon, taxon.] Thin
; Jlender •
'
iean ; meagre.
Oh, how that name befits
my compofition
Uld C,r««, indeed, and
gau«,\n being old
Within me grief hath kept

rich, not gaudy;

The BSTarian duke his brigadet lead?,
Grilant in arms, and gtudy to behold.

fate deplore.

<JAy. n.f. [from the adjeftive.]

and appointed their fpecial ofEgauger, and eli:heator.

GAUNT, ndf.

Fancies fond with f«Wy(hapespoiref»,

A goWnnch there

£,^^^

cers. asihenff, limniXy

;

A« thick and numberlefs
A» the gay motes that people the fun-beams.

2-

'^" "" above four foot feven

"f

and r
for that purpofe

J

,./. {inm gauge.]
bDhnefs IS to meafure veflTels

Cortly thy habit as thy purfe can buy.
:

Ev'ii rival wits did Voiture's

And tht.gjy mourn'd, who never mourn'd

that (iTe fhould

Gau'ger.

;,./.

Fftr the appircl oft proclaims the

*

g*t', by which they were to be meafured.

'

[fromgaitaj.] Showinefs ; tinlci appearance.
Qa'udv. aJj. [fromfauJe.] Showy; fplendid
pompous ; oftentatiotifly fine.

frolick.

Avii^inthatlovestogog-.yi,

known.

But not exprcft in fancy

it

Timothy propofed to his miflrefs,

(ince we car. make but one.
It better than to be by umifli'd gaiid'rj

GA.UDINF3S.

Airy; cheerful; merry;

Smooth flow the waves, the zephyrs gently
play ;
Belinda fmil'd, and all the world
was |<vy.
P„>'

your

yoir trade and wealth.

ft/it,

QA'vDiJ.r.ad'v.{fcomga«^j.]

I.

A meafure;

" '='"<' i'' °f to b= had
might then be had at the

when

fet

GAY. adj. {gay, French.]

worm and
^ MoxoJs
Mecb Exlr
file

is

."' •"= '•'""'

A^e, which is but one remove from
death, and
Ihould haw nothing about us but what
looks like a
decent preparation for it, fcarce everappean,
ofUte,
birtin the high modes the fliuntieg
garb, and utmoft giixdery of youth, with cloaihs as
ridiculoallv
ivi as much in the falhion, as the pcrfon
that wean
them IS ufuaily grown out of it.
ioa/i

A plain

by.

it

A WOodcH

[Scottilh.]

frame on which beer-calks are
tunned.

oneperfon bythe oppofition
he is made to excel.
Pofi

GA.UCE. «./. [from the verb.]

Finery-

ollentatjous luxury of drefj.
The triumph was not pageants and taudrry,
one of the wifcft and nobleft

of It tofome other

A foolifh fellow. In both fenfes
retained in Scotland.

Ga WNTREE. «./.

in Homer, of taking meafure

elevating the charaflerof

Shake/pear

Siuift

Gawn. n.f. [corrupted for ^«//6.« A fmall
]
tub, or lading vefTel. A
provincial word.

Derham's Phyfica-Tleohg v.
"""^ P'^'^^'^'y admirable in i.lelf

.

.b,. that artful
"r"','""^
than
manner

ult; to rejoicr .n any thin^.

Oa'uderv, ». /.

2.

progteffive motion of the bird.
,

.

^

A cuckow.

1

onJfi^"""j"'"'y ^""S^i on each fide, broad on

Some for the pride of TurkiOi courts deiiEn'd,
For folded turbants fineft hoiland bear.

tabbies and raazM.

Are lately brought over.

Gawk. n.f. [jeac, Saxon.]

of a veflel.

Fore all Hitg^udcs the Ample natives wear;

To Gaude. -v. a. [gaiiJeo, Latin.]

Silken cloaihs were ufod by the
ladiesj and It
teems they were thin, like gauz^.
Arhulhnoi.
Urocadoes and damalks, and

luring rod, French. It is
pronounced, and
often written, gage.]

Sbakcfp. King Lear.

My love to Hermia

G A Z

conceitj,

Itnacks, trifles, nofegays fweetmeats.
Siai^fprare
The fun is in the heav'n, i,i the proud day.
Attended with the pleafures 6{ the world,
Is all too wanton, and too full of gauges,

Milton'

U

'

'

I

2.

M

^

and yet, at the fame tinie, difcover the blemirtics
fflitts
which the common gaxer never obferved.

Ga'zeful. ^zrt/.

[g/!Zf and fulJ.}

Looking

intently.

The brightnefs of her beauty clear.

The ravilh'd hearts of g<j;</i/ men might rear
To admiration of that heavenly light.
Sfcxfer.

Ga''zehound.». yl \gaze and hound; canU
agafieus. Skinner.']
A hound thatpurfues
not by thefcent, but by the eye.
See'ft thou the ga-zjhound ! how with glance fcvcre

From the dofe herd he marks the deftio'd deer
TicieJ.

GA'ZETTE. « /. [gazft/aha. Venetiac
liaifpenny, the price of a news paper, of
which the iirft was publilhed at Venice.]

•A paper of news
telligence.

It

;

is

a paper of publick inaccented differently on

all but truth,

4. \\n Scotland "^
5.

Aidijon.

P'f-

minifterof (late.

perfon gared at with fcorn or abhorrence.
Tliefe things are offences to us, by making us
gaxirgjiocki to other;, and objefls of their (corn

.CJZO'N.

^-y.

[French.] In fortification

n.f.

pieces of fre (h earth co'vered with grafs,
cut in form of a wed^e, about a foot
long, and half a foot thick, to line para-

pets and the traverfes of galleries. Hen-is.
fGiA*.. »./. syruaii. to cloath; geappe.
furniture, Saxon.]
,1. Furniture; accoutrements; dreft; habit;
ornaments.

Goods or riches;

And vile tormentors ready faw in place,
•He broke through.

.Fairfax.

When once her eye
Hath met the virtue of this magick dull,

appear fome harmlefs villager,
^\V!>aia uiiift keeps upaboutlLi couutry-£Mr. Mill.
I (hall

as,

he

The furniture of a draught-horfe.
[A word which I'fifid only

in Sfetfer.] Wonderful.
Hubi,
It to Leeches feemcd Itrange and grafon.
Geat. n.f. [corrupted fromyc//.] The hole

through wni<h the metal runs into the
Moxen.
mold,
Geck. ft.f. [jeac, a cuckow^ getk, German, a fool; gaiuk, Scottilh.] A bubble
eafily impofed upon. Hanmer. Ohfolete.

GE'LID. adj.

Extremely

IgeJidut, Latin.]

cold.

From the deep ooic mi gelid cavern roos'd.
They (bounce.
7bomfon*s Spring.
Geli'ditv. n.f. [from gelid.] Extreme
cold.

Dia.
Extreme

.

Gt'LiDNEss. n.f. [{tomgelid,]
<old.

Ditii.

Ge'li.y.»./. r_f^/a/aj, Latin.] Any vifcous
body; vifcidity ; glue; gluey fubftance.

My beft blood turn.
To an inlefled gclly.

Sbakr/p. fFinttr'j Tale.

The tapers of the gods.

The fun and moon, became like waxen globes.
The (booting ftart end all in purple jellies.
Dryden and Lee*s Oedipait,
And chaos is at hand.
The white of an egg will coagulate by a moderate

Why did you fufftr Jachimo to taint his noble
heart and brain with necdlefs jcaloufy, and to become
the geck and fcorn o' ih' other's villainy ? Skalzejf,
have you fuflFered mc to be imprifon'd,

heat, and the haideft of animal folids are refolvablc
Ar^ulhnct.
again inlo geJlies.

And made the moft notorious ^t^ and gull.
Shal^efpeare.
That e'er invention pUy'd on.
9"e Geck. a;, a. [from the noun.] To cheat

Gs.LT. n.f. [fiom geld,] A caflrated animal; gelding.
Notufcd.
The fpayed gells they elieem the moft pr»6(able.

Why

Mprtimer.

to trick.

a term u fed by waggoners to their Gelt. The participle y>a(R\'C of geld.

Gee.

•

when they would have them go

Let the others he gelt for oxen.

Gelt.

Mt,rtimer*s Htifh.

[corrupted for the fake of
rhyme from ^/.V.] finfel; gilt furfacc.
I won her with a girdle oi gelt,

The plural oi goofe

n. f.

Latin.] What
Emboft with bugle about the belt.
may he congealed, or concreted inlo a GEM. n.f. [gemma, Latin.]

gelly.

A jewel

1.

Ge'latine.

1

adj.

Latin.]
into a geiJy;

[gelatas,

Formeii
Gei.a'tinous. /
fliff and cohefive.
vifcous

J

Spenfer'sFafi.

a precious ftone of whatever

•^kind.

Love his fancy drew;

And fo to take (he gem Urania fought.

;

That pellucid gelatinous fubltance is an excrement caft otf from the Ihoals of fi<h that inhabit the

1

Sidney,

faw his bleeding rings.

Their precious gents new loh, became his guide.
Led him, bcgg'd lor him, fav'd him from defpair.

lVood-u.ard
fee their eggs laid carefully up in

Sbake/p.

which ihcy are
Dcrb.
repofiicd.
,
To
ELD. <v, a. prcter. gelded or gelt ; part.

feem a hard matter to ftiadow a gem, or
well |)ointed diamond, that hath many (ides, and to
give the luftre where itought. Peacbam on Drawing.
Stones of fmall worth may lie unfeen by day
Cnvley.
But night itfclf does the rich gem betray.
The bafis of all gems is, when pure, wholly diaphanous, and either cryftal or an adamantine matter;
but we find the diaphaneity of this matter changed,
H'nodw.
by means of a fine metallick matter,

You Oiall always

that fpermacick gelatine matter, in

pzff. gi/ded OT geJt. [g^lten,
1.

It will

German.]

io caftrate; to deprive of thepowtrof
generation.
Geld bull-calf and ram-lamb as foon as they fall.
TuJ'er.

Lord Say hath gelded the commonweolih, and

made it an eunuch.
Sbakeff, Henry VI,
2. To deprive of any elTential part.

He bears his courff

,

and runs mc up

liable to objedlion.
They were diligent enough to make fure work,
and to geld it fo clearly in fome places, that they
Dryden,
took away the very manfiood of it.
^<'/d'.]

One that per-

And look of a doaen to geld away two.
No Sovi-getder did blow his horn

Ge'loer-rosb, n.f.

[I fuppofc

The firfl bud.
From the joints of thy prolifick (him
is raifed, call'd a gem ;

A fwelling knot

DeniaiK,'

Embolden'd out they come.
And fwell the^emr, andburft the narrow room.
Dryden,'

To Giu. V, a. [^^OTOTrr, Latin,]
as with jewels or buds.

To GtM.

"v.

>/.

[gemmo, Litin.]

Toadom>j

To put

forth the firft buds.
Laft rofe, in dance, the (lately trees, and fpread
Their branches, hung with copious fruit ; otgemm'd
Their blolToms.
Milton's Paradife Lnjl,

forms the aft of caftration.
Ccld later with^^W.rr, as many one do.

To geld a cat, but cry 'd reform.

2.

Whence, in (hort fpace, itfelf the clutter (hows.

With like advantage on the other fide.
Gelding th'oppofcd continent as much
Sbaiefp.
As on the other fide it takes from you,
3. To deprive of any thing immodeft, or

^ Ge'lder. n.f. [from

(Array thyfelf in her moft gorgeous gtar. Fairy
When he' found her bound, rtript liom her gtsr.

I

Though naturally there be more males of horfes,
bullsor rams than kmiles; yet ariiricially, thatitt
by making geldings, oxen and weathers, there are
fewer.
Craurr.
The lord lieutenant may chufe out one of the
beft horfes, and twoofthebeft gildings ; for which
(hall be paid one hundred pounds lor the horfe, and
Temple.
fifty pounds a-piece for xhegeldirtgs.

G

IfeeVitdie:

Pcpt.
No gaTUiictr more innocent than I.
Gjk'ziNGSToCK. n.f. r^<7» and_/?ed.] A

and derilion.

wench lor

a good

More.

'

n.f. [hova geld,] Any animal
caftrated, particularly an horfe.

Shukcfpcare's Mcrch. cf Venice.

main.

An officer api>ointed to publilh news by
whom Steele calls the loweft

in a circular rofe form.

Gk'lding.

Gg'Ason. <7^'.

HuJIirat.

authority,

Satire is no more :

woman, (he is

has gear enough.

'•tazette'ir. »./. [froni^azfWf.J
1. A writer of news.
2.

by which horfes or oxen

If fortune be a
'this gfar.

leaves arc like

tings.

The fiaudshe learrei in his frantick yeais
Made him uneafy in his lawful gran.
Drydrn,
Uanmer,
3. Stuff.

GEf SE.

falls-dcad-born from the prefs;

Like the lart gas^ette, or the laft addrefs.

traces

'Clic

The gelder-r-fe \i increafed by fuckers and cutS-a. ft.

Ge'lable. fli//. {ixom gelu,

J4n Englilh gentleman, without gn^raphy, cannot
Lode,
.veil underftand a^rtif//?.
One cannot hear a name mentioned in it that does
All,

of one k:af,

fafter.

And danger great, ihcy challenge all
Vrint new additions to their feats,

not bring to mind a piece oflhegaztilc.

Atldifn'tduanliiii.

Apollo's fpite Pallas difccrn'd, and flew to Tydeus'
fon
His fcourgc reacht, and his horfe made (re(b ; then
took her angry run
At king Eumclus, break his gears,
Cbaf:manU II.

horfes

the firft or laft fyllablc.
And fometimes when tl'.c lofs is fmall.

J^nd emen lations in gniu'tret.

The

Giiellcrhiiid.

thofe of the maplc-trce; th.e flowers confift

draw.

Ga'zel. v.f. An Arabian deer.
Ga'zer. »./. rfroin^azi'.] He that gazes;

In her cheeks the virmil red did (hew,
Like rofes in a bed of lilies Ihcd ;
The which ambrufml odours from them threw
And ga-ztrt fenfe with double pleafure fed. l\iiry
I'll flay mongazfrs than the balililk.
Sbni/f.
Bright as the fun, her eycsthe g^nurt ftrike ;
fppf"And like the fun, they Ihine on all alike.
His learned ideas give him a tranfcendent delight

from

as I

In all her glilt'ring birthday giar.
You think fome goddefs trim the (ky
Dsfcended, ready cut and ix\.

I

One that looka intently with eagernefs or
admiration.

T "

itie

To fee fome radiant nymph appear

The objeft gazed on.

mul\ die
Bftray'd, captiv'd, and both my eye? put out;
jde of my enemies tJie fcom and gtt^if ;
To grind in brazen fetters, under talk.
With my hcav'n-giiieJ tlrengih. Millon't Agoniji.

walk the
and long to be in my own pliin jrur jgain.
every body obfcrvss

fancy

ilrcet,

Alter hiv.ng ftooi at guse before this gate, he
difcovered an infcripli-jn.
^jji/m'i Frulxilder,

2.

GEM

GEL

G E A
Tindar is a ilaik writer, ttsiils connciian ute svr
undcrilar.d'.iiC, (otn a..l ot fight,
and leaves h'n
Dry Jen.
readcn at a ^.ijj.

Tufftr,

Uudiiras,

brought

Geme'lliparous. adj.
Latin.] Bearing twins.

[gemclli

md pane,
Dm.
Ti

I

[gtmitto, Latin.]

To double.

Did.

GsMiNA'xioJf. rt./. [ftom geimnate,] Repetition ; redupKcation.
Be not afraid of hem tlut kill the body: fear
him, rtbich, after he hath killed, hath power to
yea, 1 fay unlo you, with i gim'imcall into hell
thn, which the pvelenE conirovcrly ihcws not to

Gs'nekable. adj. [from ^/wm, Latin.] GE.SERAt,l'ssiMO. n. f.
French, from genera!.']
That may be produced or begotten.
ralis,

To conclude from particulars

»•

Twins;

/ [gemmi. Latin.]

a pair; alirace; a couple.
1 have grated upon my good friends for three re|irieves for you, and your couch fellow, Nim, or elfc
you had looked through the grate, like a gemixy of
Sbuhfftart.
baboons.
A gcmixy of afles fplit will make jull four of you.

;

and ^fwrrtf/exprelhons.

Ge'wmaRY. adj.

flticency: as for irradiancy, which is found in many

genu,

it is

not difcovcrabicin

Brotvn,

this.

Gs'mmeous. adj. [gemmtiis, Latin.]

Gemmo'sity. ». /. [from^^'OT.] The quality of being a jewel.

A kind

1.

'I'he other motive.

Why to a publick court

I

averfion will be turned into a particular hatred againit
Sjiratl.

it.

Having relation to all.

J.

The wall of I*aradife upfprung.
Which to our general fire gavs profpedf large
8. Extenfive,

Common

9.

;

ufual.

appended to feveral oflices

:

Ge'neral. n.f.

The whole the totality ; the main,
without inftfting on particulars.
;

Clark.

That which makes an afiionfitto be commanded

Cubitus, fomelimet cubitum !n the neutral gender , figni^ the lower part of the arm on which we

general, but
can be nothing Hie,
its tendency to promote or hinder the attainment of
Norrh.
fame end.
In particulan our knowledge begins, and fo
Lockt.
fpreads itfelf by degrees to generals.
1 have conlidcrcd Milton's Faradifc I.0II in the
fdble, the characters, thefentiments, and the language ; and have tliewn tliat he excels, in general,
tinder each of thefe heads.
Addifon.
An hiftory paintex paints man in general; a portrait painter a particular man, and confequently a

Arbuthnot,

lean.

Ulj'fles fpeaks of Nauflcaa, yet Immediately changes
the words into the matculine genJtr.
Bro'^ne.

Te Ge'ndeR. -v. a.

\engtitdrer, Fre9ch.j

To beget.
a. To produce; tocaufe.
I .

Foolilh and unlearned quellions

that ihcy do genJer ftrife.

Til Ge'nder. -v. ».

avoid,

knowing

a Tim. ii. 23.

To copulate; to breed.

A cilicrn fur foul toads
To render in.

2.

Shakeffear'tOthelh.

Genealo'cical. adj.

GeNEa'logist. n.f. ['/oiaXr/iv
gjir, French.]

i

genealo-

He who traces dcfcents.

GENEA'LOGY. n.f. [ytucc and a<i-/®-.]
Hiftory of the fucceflion of families
enumeration of defcent in order of fuccefiion; a pedigree.

The Ancient ranged chaos into feveral regions

and m that order fucceflively rifing one from another,
at if it was a pedigree or {mm/s^j-. Buriut'i Theory.

Vol. I.

'

2.

Extcnfivcly, though not univerfally.

3.

Commonly; frequently.

•

4. In the main; without minute detail; in
the whole taken together.
Generally fpeakine, they live very t{ain\y,,Addif.
Generally fpcaking, they have been gaining eyer
fince, tliough wilh frequent interruptions.
^wif}.
Generally (pc:ik\r.^, pcrfons defigned for long tife,
though in their former years they were fmall eaters^
yet hnd their appetites encieafe with their ape.
Blackmore,
'

Ge'neralness. «./

fiom general.] Wide
though (liort of uni^erfality
frequency ; commonnefs.
They had, with a general oo,nri;nt, rather fpripg]

extent;

ing by the genera Inef of the c lufe than of any artificial practice,

fct themfelves in arms.

Sidney.

The publick; the intereft of the whole. Ge'neralty. n.f, [fiom general,] The
whole; the totality.
Not in ufe.
Hath raifed me from my bed; nor doih \ix^generai
Take hold on me ; for my particular grief
Ingliits and fwallows other forrows,

3.

-

giddy fancies as he hath generally .tAxcd their whole
fex withal.
Sbakefpeare,
Ciinerally we would not have thofe that read this
work of Sylva Sylvanim, account it ftiange that wc
have let down particulars untried. B'^con's Nat. PlifK

ThCmunicipal laws of thiSkkiogdom are ofavalt

Neither my place, nor ouglit I heard of bufinefs,

Lev. xit. 19.
[from genealogy.^

Pertaining to defccnts or families; pertaining to the hiftory of the fucceflions
of houfes.

Reyttldu

defective model.

IImu flifilt not let thy nx.tU gende' with a diverfe
kind.

w

or forbidden,

.

am tiot a woman to be touch'd with fo many

1

as. Attorney General, Solicitor General, Ft'

1

limitation.

though not univeiTal,

I've been bold.
For that I knew it the mod general way. Shakeff.

adjedive in this or that termination.

In general; without fpecilication orexaft

1.

car General.

A

fecret pride,

XH/tofi.

•

Sbak.

denomination given
3. [In grammar.]
to nouns from their bcingjoincd with an

Addifon.
and applaud themfelves for the fingularityof their judgment, which has found a flaw in
what the generality of mankind admires.
Addifon.
The wilelt were diftra(5led with doubts, while the
generality wandered 'wiihoui any ruler.
Rfigen^
Ge'nerally. nd^j. [iKorci general.]

A fex.

».

but

They publilh their ill-natured difcoveries with a

10. Geneiol is

might not go,

Is the great love the general gender bare me.

generality,

6. J^'ot direfled to any fingle objeft.
If the fame thing be peculiarly evil, that general

IiHo his nether empire ncighb'ring round.

»re gardeners ; fo that if we will fupply it with one
geidrr oihtxhi, nrdlftradt it with many, the power
and corrigible authority ol^his lies in our will. Sbak.

Neceffity, not extending to the
refting upon private hcids.

AIilion*i Paradlfe Lojl.

Z>;V?.

Our bodies are our gardens, to the which our wills

the common

vourable opinion of treafon, nothing can core them.

His own.

Not in ufe.

a fort.

;

;

mafs.

N4r fail'd they toexprefs how much they praisM,
That for the general fafety he defpis'd

Ge'mote. n.f, A meeting; the court of
the hundred. Obfolete.
Ge'nde*. »./. \^gcnus, Latin; getidrt, Fr.]

Ayiifiei Parergon.

The main body; the bulk

2.

5. Publick ; comprifil^g the whole.
Now would we deign him burial oi his meni
Till he dilburfed at $t. Colmelkill ille.
Ten thoufand dollars to our^fnVj/ufc.
Sbakefp.

n'oaJvi

Refembling gems.

2.

eveiy where ofTcriin: ihemfelvcs, arc
apparent to men of the weakell conceit.
Hooker..
Thcfe ccitilicates do only in the generality mention the parties contumacies and difobedience.

Raleigb's Ejfayb,
By his own principles he excludes from falvutioa
the gi-nerality of his own church ; tlut is, all that
do not believe upon his grounds.
Tillotfjn.
The generality of the Englillt have fuch a fa-

Sometimes we tind them in the gemmnui matter
itfelf.

the quality

;

ggnertilitii-s as,

imigifle.

Tending to gems.

1.

French i

Becaufe the curiofity of man's wit doth with peril

make that iaiXl general which is particular.

trial,

The principle and gftr.iaery affeftion is it» tran-

[generalite,

n.f,

wade farther in the fcarch of things than were convenient, the fame is thereby reltrain'd unto fuch

Relating to a whole clafs or body of men,
or a whole kind of any being.
They, becaufc fome have been admitted without

an^

;

of including fpecies or particulars.

A general idea is an idea in the mind, confidered
from time and place, and fo capable to rcprefent any particular being that is coi!Locke.
ibrmable to it.

[from i">i.'\ Pertaining

to gems or jewels.

1

IVatls.

tliere as feparated

4.

name of great

from ge/ieral.]
The ftate of being general

limitations.

ble.
Chriftians have baptiied thefe gemlmus births,
.and double connafcencies, with fevcral names, as
Brovjn,
conceiving in them a dilHnt^ion of fouls,

Genera'lity.

Not reftrained by narrow or diftinctive

3.

defcrvcd the

Alexander, of the I'ame'cognomination, was genei-.j//^w5 of Greece.
Brozvrt,

Broome.

ticularly on any theme, it will explain the more loolc

Dou-

[gemhtus, Latin.]

adj.

Pompey had

not reftrained to
Lax in figiiilication
any fpecial or p.irticular import.
Where the author fpeaks more ftridly and par-

z.

Clarendon.

the prince.

gef-erali is a falfc

way of arguing.

C^ngr.

Ge'minous.

\.o

'1

Commii^on oi generalij/ifna was likewife given to

indivi-

duals ; not fpecial ; not particular.

Boyle,

have been caufelefs, fearhira.

Latin.]

Comprehending many fpecies or

1.

[giAerctliJime^

he. fupreme
commander. It is often rather a title of
honour than office.

GE'NERAL. adj. [general, French; gene-

:

£'«'«*•

GEN

GEN

GEN
To GE'MINATE, v, a.

The vulgar.

Sbakefpeare,

and include in their: ^f»«vi/y all thofe feveral laws which arc allowed as the rule of juftice and
extent,

judicial proceedings.,

Ge'.verant.

Not in ufe.

French.]
One
command over an army.

4. [^General,

that has

the

Locke.

The generah on the enemy's fide are inferior to
feveral that once commanded the French armies.

Addifon on the fVar.
The war's whole art each private foldier knows,
Vf cpn^ucft glows. Addifon.
Afl4 witb a gen'rai'i

Wn

The

and (omi by ihc generam : whether it be
immediately created Or traduced hath been the great

gels,

ball ol contention.
Ill

A general is one that hath power to command an
army.

I^Iale^

[gene rani, Latin.]

begetting or produdlive power.
Some believe the foul made by God, fome by an-

The p!ay, I remember, pleafed not the million
'twas caviare to the general; but it svas, as I received it, and otheri, whofe judgment in fuch matters cried in the top of mine, an excellent play. Hbak

n.f.

CJanville's Sceffii.
generations the generent 'it
fuppolcd i»j be the tun, whicli»

fuch pietended

adtive principle

is

being an inanimate body, cunnot aCl otheiwife than
hy his heat.
Ray.

To GE'NERATE.
I.

'I'o

''v.

a.

{genero, Latin.]

beget ; to propagate.

Thtfe creatures which being tvild generate ftldom, being tatnCi^evrritr; often. Bttion tHat.liiJl.
"fs'
2. To

To ^rockice to life

t.

Thoufli wine differs from other liquidl, in that

to procreate,

;

the juice of a certain fruit 5 yet this ii but a
general or ge/ierlei difterencc ) for it does not diftinguilh wine irom cyder or perry; the fpetifick
difTcrence of wine, therefore, is its preffure from the
tfattt'i Logick.
grape.
it is

Go4 ciriKd the great whales, and each
Soul living, each that crept, which plentcouHy
AVlnn.
The waters fttutaiei by their kinds.
Or find fome other way to gtniratt

M ankind.

Mi/ton's ParaJi/t Lofi.

3, Toc»ufe; to prdduce.
Sounds are gtiitr»itd wlicie there it 00 air at all.
Bacon.
Whatever generatet 1 quantity of good chyle,
tnuftlikewife^Mcrit/f milk. Ariutbnol oit jUimenli.

Gene'rically.<»(/^'. [ixom generick.'] With
regard to the genus, though not the fpecies.

Thcfe have all the efTential charaflers of feaand (hew that they arc of the very fame
fpecifick gravity with thofe to which they are fc

fliells,

GeneRa'tion. ft./, [from generate, generation.

Genero'sity.

3. Progeny;

2.

A generout virtue of a vigorous kind,
Pure in the laft receffet of the mind.
An innocent or abfent friend.

offspring.

one gradation in the

"Xh'K gtnei athn Ihall not pafs 't<il all thcfe things
Matt. xxlv. 34.
lie fulfilled.

In the fourih gemraticii they fliall

come hither

and you will find all little ill-nalur'd paflions die
away, your heart grow great iivi generous, delighting
iu the common happinefs of others, as you ^fed
Lau'.
only to delight in yo.ir own.

which w.lh
lliat kingdom fome few gtte

fingular virtue tliey

^uell ot Palefli;;e,

performed, and held

J.

Raliigb't Ejfays.

of animals.
courageous.

3. It

An age.

By fome of the ancients a gtneraticn was fixed at
an hundred yeat« ; by others at an hundred and ten ;
:

A generous pack.

^i.'irsi

[from ^/wro, Latin.]

Imagination aSimilates the idea of the ftntrafr
Bianun.

i.

into the reality in the thing tngciidered.

That which c<7mprehends

That which contributes to propagation.

I.

Higher of the genial bed by far,
I deem.
Creator Venus, genial pow'r of love.
The biifs of men btlow ar.d gods above

3.

;

Heigh.

Dryd.

[{lom generous,
'\

The word confumption being applicable to a pro-

tal beings with

and improper to a true aud baftard confumption, requires a ginerUnl dcfrripiion quadrate to
iiutTej on CinJum^tiiTti.
1,3th.

mean or envious principles ?

Coiiier.

GE'NESIS. ». /. v'""*; gt»e/e, French.]
Generation; the iiril book of Hojei,
I

It

praceedeth from

chiefly

natural incapacity,
£rov.'n's f^ulgarJErrouri

Some men

are

genially difpofed t9 fome opi*

nrons, and hattlrally averl'e toothers.

Gayly;

QUnville,

cheerfully.

GE^i'CULAThD. adj. [gtnkulalus, Lat;}
Knotted; jointed.
part of a fttgarcane.

GenICULa'tioN. Ki /.

IVbodyvard on Fcjftis'.
[giaieujet.io,

Lat.]

Knottinefs ; the quality in plants of having knots or joints.
n.J'.

[genio, It.tlian; genius, Lat..}

A man of a particular turn of mind.
Ge'nitai.s. n./^ Igera'td/is, Latin.] Parts
belonging to generation.
Him is conceived to be Jupiter, who was tht
youngfft fon'who is laid to have cut off the getiiials
TlroMin.

ot hia father.

Ge'niting. n./.

Is it poiTible to conceive that the overflowing f (•»<rou/ur/s of the divmc Nature usuld create immor-

per,

Milton,

Some genios are not capable of pui e atfe£tion ;
and a man is born with talents for it as much as for
Tj:/r«.
poetry, or any other fcience.

munificently.
»»/.

Drydct^

Natural; native.

G'enio.
Svjift,

The t^uality of being generous.

but

3.

2.

Magnaniraoudy ; nobly.
When all the gods our ruin have foretold,
Liberally

MiHris,.

Btit yields to double darknefs nigh at hand ;

Parnel.

I'habus* rays they fuficr pain,

Ge'nerousness.

the genus, or

from another genus,
does not diilinguiih the fpccies.

diflinguiOies

GE'NIAL. atij. [genialis, Latin.]

Apiece of fome genieulated plant f;eming to ba

ytigenrrovfy he does his arms withhold.

Xadj. [generijue.'Fiench;
ffom genus, Latin.]
S

At prefent only a better kind ij

GE'NjALLt. adt: [from ^<«V7/,]
naturally.
1. By genius;

Ck'neROUSLY. adv. [itom genereut.l
I. Not meanly with regard to birth.

The power which begets, caufes, or pro-

ftiops.

from ttie juniper-berry : whatis commonl]r
fold is made with no better an ingredient than oil of
turpentine, put into the (till, with a little common
Hill'i Mat. Med,
fait and the coarfell fpirit.
diftilled

and genial indifpofitioii.

Strong; vigorous.

Nluil OMn that pain is well repaid,
Jiy gfn'rout wines beneath a (hade.

duces,

GENE'KICAL.

We ufcd t* keep a dilVillcd fpirituous water of Ju»
riper in ilie

Addijan.

Having in a digellive furnace drawn off the ardent
fpiril from fome good fack, the phlegm, even in this
Moyle.
generout wine, was copious.
Thofe who in fouahetn climes comptaia^

hath been fueh a gradual dir^nution of
tht gfnera:ivr faculty upon the earth, why was there
Dot the like decay io the produftion of vegetable? ?
Ben:Uv.

GENli'RICK.

:

Fair as the bordering flowers the princefs llood,

if there

[A corruption of ^M<»f>r,

So much I feel my genial fpirits droop.

And rich in bounty as \ix gta'rous llrcam.

tion ; fruitful.

». /.

French, a juniper-herr)'.J

Co^hy.

Faft by the margin of her naiiv-e fiood.
VVhofe wealthy waters are well known to fame,

Prolifick ;.haviag the power of produc-

Drummond.

the perfcn.

Genk'va.

1

And paid prolufely with the precious bowl,
The ftiiited kindnefs of this churlilh foul.

5.

He

3, That gives chcerfulnefs or fupports life.
Nor will the light of life continue long,

4. Liberal ; munificent.
When from his veil the young companion bore
The cup the gen'reui landlord own'd before.

Butriment of that grntrathv particle, fo difpraporfircivn.
tioiublc unto it,

at the birth.

Genethlia'tick. 17./. [viFiiJAii.]
who calculates nativities.

.^iid willi myfterious revcrei'.ce

His op'ning hounds, and now he hears their ciies

thereby 10 continue their fpecies and kinds.
RaUigb's Hlji.ry.
In granes and kertids the greatelt part is but the

b./.

fcience of calculating natTvities, or predifling the future events of life from the

ASaron fpies

itotngenero, Ijtin.]
Having the power of propagation.
Me gave to all, that have life, a power gnura-

Genf.ra'tor

Genethli'ack*. w./. [from ytri^AD. ] The

Spritely; daring;

He only fucks the taileful blood.

ti^'t,

2.

is ufed

So the imperial eagle does not ftay
Till the whole carcafe he devour.
As if h\sgtn'rcu! hunger underilood
That he can never want plenty of food.

ky others at thirty-three, thirty, twenty-five, aud
twenty but it is remarked, that the continuance of
genrrathni is fo much longer as they come nearer to
CainKt.
the more ancient times.
Every where throughout all geiKraluni and ages
perceived
church
ever
of the Chriftian world, no
Hoi.icr.
the word of Cod to be againft it.
Ge'weratite. adj. [generatif, FreiKh,

1,

The night immediately before he was (Tighting
the art of thofe foolifh aUroIogets, and genethtlacal
ephemerills, that ufe to fry into the horofcope of
nativities.
Hov:el't focal ForeJI^

jecture by the difpofition, temper, and complexion of

importunity, and earneflnefs, as you ufe for yourfelf j

Cen.

A marvellous number were excited to the conralicns.

. <7(/;". [yi»i.^Ai'(««©-.J
Pertaining to nativities .is calculated by
aftroBomers ; (hewing the configurations
of the ftars at any birth.

Fr^pc.

The gen'rous god who wit and gold refines.
And ripens I'pirits as he ripens mines.
Pofe.
_
Hiigc/i'iius fpoufc, Theano, heav'nly fair,
NuR'd the young ftrangerwith a mother's care. Pope.
Pray for others in fuch forms, with fuch ler.gch,

fcale of gene.tlogical defccnt.

again.

proportioned Spanifh horfe.
You'll have your nephews neigh to you ; you'll
have courfers for coufms, and genets for gemunes.
Shakejp. OlIxHa.
It is no more likely that frogs Ihould be engendered in the clouds, than Spaniin genets be begotten
by the wind.
Hay.
He (hews his ftatue too, where plac'd on high.
The genet underneath him feems to fly.
Dryd,

The truth of aftrological predi^ions is not to be
referred to the conftcllations : the genetbliaticks con-

Such was Kofcommon, not more learn *d than good.
Pc^e.
With manners ^flcroi/j as his noble blood.

Sh.!kt/fieart' s Klnjr Ijar.
;

gentleman or knight.] A fmail-fized well-

StvJ/i.

The gen'roitt critick faiin'd the poet's fire.
And taught the world with reafon to admire.

Or he that makes liis grneraiiin mefles.

A fingle fuccefllon

The word origin.f. [French.
nally (ignified a horfeman, and perhaps a

flars predominant

Dryden.

That gen' roushoMmk to defend

To gorge his appetite, Ihall to my bofom
4.

world.

heart.

The barb'rous Scythian.

Be as well neighbour'd.

[genero/ut, Latin; ge-

of good extraftion.
Noble of mind; nugnanimous; open of

Sbakt/fiart'tTiimai.

be a dog?

adj.

nereux, French. ]
1. Not of mean birth;

Y'are a dog.
if I

Locke.

palfed by fuch a fault as this.

GE'NEROUS.

of the produ^oa of tlic

The quality of being Genethli'acai

and ginirofity than his young tutor is?
Lotkc on Education.
It would not have been your gencr^iy, to have

Thy mother's of my gennathn : what's
flic,

French;

treats

G'ENET.

true virtue

«^ce upon any civil conditutions, to aflcmble as fo

Buny heads of families whom they rcprefcut. Temf/f.
2. A family; a race.

[generofiti,

which

generous; magnanimity; liberality.
Can he be betier principled in the grounds of

be thtiught of founds in their firl> gmerailoM : but
then Me dilation of thei», without any new fealiog,
(liews they cannot be imprclTions. Bacon'iNal, IJiJI.
He longer will delay, to hear thee tcU
Kii gtiitrtliat, and the rifing birth
Milton.
Of nature, finm tlie unapparent deep.
If we deduce the fevcral races of mankind in the
ieveral parts of the world from generatwn, we muft
imagine the firll numbers of them, who in any place

n. /.

generojitas, Latin.]

make eieellent itnprefljons; and lb it may

Seals

H'acJii'ard.

genericalh allied.

French.]

The aft of beeetting or prodacing.

J,

GEN

GEN

GEN

[\ corruption of yaneFrench, fignifying 'jane or 'Janet,
having been fo called in honour of fome
latly of that name ; and the Scottilh dialed calls theoj Janet apples, which is the
titt,

{ass*

-

GEN

GEN

GEN
fame with Janttun; othenvire fuppofed
to be corrupted from Junit'mg.'\ An early
apple gathered in June.
In Julj come early pean and plumb] in fruit,

Elegance; gracefulnefs ; politencfs.

1.

He had a genius full of genteelnefs and fpirit,
having nothing that was ungraceful in his potlurcs
DryJ. Dufrejn.
and dreffes.
Parmegiano has dignified the gfnteelnrfi of modern effeminacy, by uniting it with the fimplicity
of the ancients, aiul the grandeur and feverity of MiReynolds.
chael Aiigelo.

Bacon.

genitingimi ctAXwA,

Atgi^f/f, i»d asjocund, as tojeft,
Sh^kejp. Riehard 11.
r.o I 10 hght.
A virtuous and a good man, reverend in cooverfi» Mac. iv. it.
tion, and gi/rr/f in condition.
The genilfjl heart on earth is ptov'd unkindFairfax.
Your change was wife; for, had fhe been deny'd,
fwifi revenge had follow'd from her pride r
You from my ger:tle nature had no feats
All my revenge is only in my tears. Dryd, Ind. Emf,
He had fuch a gentle method of re|»roving their
faults, that they were not fo much afraid as afhiined
Atterb.
to repeat them.

Gracefully : handfomely.
Gente'elness. h./. [from^9».W.]
2.

Ge'.nitive. adj, [gfrn'thfu, Latin.] lu
grammar, the name of a cafe, which,
among other relations, fignifies one begotten, as, the father of a Jon ; or one begetting, as fon of a father,

2. Qualities befitting a man of rank.
Ge'ntian. ft. f. [gentiattf, French ^«GE'NIUS. Tt.f. [Latin gtnit, French.]
tiarta, Latin.]
The protecting or ruling power of men,
telwort or baldmony.
J
;

;

A

Soothing; pacifick.
And though this fenfe firft gentle mufick founds

3.

.

The root of gentiun is large and long,

of a tolerable firm texture, and remarkably tough : it has
1 taintilh and difjgrceable fmell, and an extremely

places, or things.
There is none but he

Whofe being 1 do fear: and, under him.

My geniut

is rcbuk'd; as it is faid
Sbahfpeare* t MacBftb.
Antony's was by Cifar.
"Vht geniut and the mortal inttrumcnts
Are then in council ; and the tlate of man,
Like (0 a little kingdom, fuf&rs then.
Sbakfff.
And as I awake, I'wect mutick breathe.
Sent by fomc fpint to mortals good,
Afi/tofi,
Orth' unkei] gfniui of the wood.
And the tarne demon that (houl J guard my throne,
DryJcn.
Shrinks at a^nius greater than his own.
To your glad ggnius facriHce this day
Orydxn,
Let common meats refpe^tfuUy give way.

Genti ANE'tLA.

Mental power or faculties.
The ftate and order docs proclaim
tVallfr.
The j.-n/i/r of that royal dame.
4. Difpofition of nature by which any one
is qualified for fome peculiar employment.

A happy geviui is the gift of nature.

Dryden.

Your majefty*s fagacity, and happy gentut
natural hirtory,

of

this

is

for

narrownefs of their underftauding, as bccaufc they

gentle ;

polite.

A word now dif-

Fairy ^een.
She that wjs noble, wife, as fair and gent.
Call how flie might their harmlcfs lives prcferve.
fa/r/jx.

civility.
:
Not ufed.
She with her wcdding-cloaths uudrelTes

Ge'ktilism.

If invocation of faints had been produced in the
apoHolical times, it would have looked like the inStillingjieet,
troducing cA gentiiifm again.

Gentili'tious.
1.

Bndemial;

adj.

[grtttiliiiut,

Latin.]

peculiar to a nation.

That an unfavory odour is gentilitiouj, or national
unto the Jews,reafonorfenfe will not induce. Srov.-n.

,

2.

Hereditary; entailed on a family.
The common caufe of this didcmper is a particu-

lar

and perhaps a gentiliiious difpolition

ol body.
Arbuthnol,

Genti'lity. »./. [gentilite, French; from
French; geittiUi, Latin.]
;
dignity of birth.
2. Elegance of behaviour ; gracefulnefs of
ruien ; nicety of tafte.
3. Gentry; the clafs of perfons well born.
Gavelkind mud needs, in the end, make a poor
4..

Davits on Ireland.

Paganifm ; heathenifm.

When people began to efpy the fallhocd of oracles,
whereupon all gentility wis

built, their hearts were

Ihoker.

GENTILE, adj. [geitiilit, Latin.]
Well born ; well defcended j ancient,
though not noble.
They entering and kilting

all of

the gentle and

Tatler

rich failion, fcr honcfty fake broke open all prifons.

Several ladies that have twice her fortune, ire not
able to be always fo genieel, and fo conftant at all
places of pleafurc and cxpence*
Zdu*.

Thefc are the ftudies wherein our noble and gentle
youth ought to bellow their time. Milton nn Kduca.

Elegantly drcffed.

A roan of birth ; a man of extraiS\ion,
though not noble.

1

A civil war was w'ltliin the bowels of that ftate,
Sidney
between ti\<: gentlemiin ,iiid the pcal'ar,.j.
1 Itccly tolj you all the wealth 1 had
SBak.
Ran in my veins; I wtti^gentleman,
He hither came a f\i\ne gentleman.
But young and brave, and ot a family
Otvay's Orphan.
Ancient and iMble.
You lay a long defcended race
Makes gemlemcn, and that your high degree
Is much dil'parag'd to be match'd with nw, Dryieti.
2. A man raiftd abo\e the vulgar by his
charafteror port.

Of gentle blood, part Ihed in bonour'i caufe,
Each parent fprung.
2. Soft; bland;

Elegantly ; politely.
Thofe that would be genteelly learned, need not
purchafe it at the dear rate of being athcifts. Glanv.
After a long fatigue of eating and drinking, and
kibbling, he coDciuiics the great work of dining geii.

$kakfp^

He is To far from defiring to be ufed as a gtn~
ticman, that he delires to be ufed as the fervant of

3. A terra of complaifance

South.

I

Her voice was ever foft,
Ctntliiai low: an »c«ilcnt thing in woman, Sbttk.

fometimes iro-

The fame gentlemen who have fixed this plei;e tf
morality on the three naked fillers dancing hand \n
hand, would liave found nut as good a one had there
been four of them fitting at 1 diftance, and covercsf
from head to fool.

Addifon,

The fervant that waits about the perfua

4.

of am.in of rank.
Sir Thomas More, the Sunday after he gave up
his chanccllorfliip,

came to his wile's pew, and uled

the iifual words of his grnlkman uftier, Madam, rny
Camden,
lord is gone.
I.ct be cali'd before us

mild; tame; meek; peace-

am one of thofe gentle ones that will ufe the

;

nical.

'

devil himfcif with curtcfy. Shaktff. l-wrlfth Night,

La-u.

all.

Pefe.

able.

,

Inquire me out fome mean-bom gentUnan,

Whom I will marry ftrait to Clarence' daughter.

Sidney.

Ge!<Te'«LLV. di/t;. {Uom genltil.']

^'Ilj-

{gentdhomme, ir.
gciitiihuomo. Ital. tliat is, homo gentilis, i
man of Anceflry. All other derivation*
fcem to be whimfical.]

Good extraftion,

titterly averted Irom it.-

1

GE'NTLEMAN. n. f

\gentilijme, French;
Heatnenifm ; paganifm.

gentility.

He had a geniteUr mauncr ot binding the chains
of this kingdom than moll of his prcdecelTors. Svjift,
Their poeti have no notion oi genieei comedy,
and fall into the moll tilihy ilouble meanings when
they have a niind to make their audience merry.
AddifoH en Italy
2. Graceful in mien.
So fpruce that he can never be genietl.

Stsjift:

Hudibras,

n. /.

from genti'.e.^

Skakeff,

fons diftinguifhed by their birth from the
vulgar.
The queen's kindred ate made gentlefolk. Shake/.
Gentlefolks will not care for the remainder of »
bottle ol wine j therefore fet a frdh one before them,

fance

GENTE'EL, odj. [gentil, French.]

u Polite; elegant in behaviour; civil.

l-.is

Shall be my broiher: be he never fo vile.
This day ^txW gentle his condition.

Compiai-

Her complaifance and gentilejfii.

1.

Torcwafted all: 'till CcuuilTafrf/
Perfuadcd him to ce<t(c.

from the vulgar. Obfolete.
blood with me,
He to-day that rtieds

raife

Ge'ntlefolk. tt.f. [gentle ^viA fo!k,'\ ?c'r-

getiti!,

Vcfpalian, with great fpoil and rage,

t.

/ [French.]

To make gentle; to

To Ge'ntle. •v.a.

Gbfolete.

Elegant ;

ufed.

3.

».

Ifalmn's Angler.

or at a green gentle.

Tujer.

GETILE'SSE.

Burner,
will not take lime to extend them.
He tames the genius of the ftubbom plain. I'ofe.

6ent. ad/, [g'tf, old French.]

A p.irticular kind of worm.

2.

He will in the three hot months bite at a flagworm,

Fine Batll defircth it may be her lot
To grow, as a gilliflower, trim in her pot;
1'hat ladies and gcntitcSf for whom wedoferve.
May help him as necdctb, poor life to prcferve.

Knoiha geniui and difpofition improper for philo.
fophical contemplations, is not fo much from the

foft ;

A perfon of rank.

2.

5. Nature ; difpofition.

Dryden.

Sbaiefpeare.

one

Bacon,

purfuit conjoined.

Shaleffeate.

Where is my lovely bride ?
Howdoes my father i Ceniles, methinks you frown.

Rom. ii. 2.

trade, yet were not entirely tvcgleAful of it. Arbuib.

Studious to pleafe the ;<-«/«/ of the timet,

GfttrUsf do not reprehend ;
If you pardon, we will n-.end.

Grniilts or infidels, in thofe i<£lion*, upon both
the fpiritual and temporal good, have been in one

Burnetts Theory, PTtface.

With periods, points, and tropes, he flurs his crimes.

out of ufe,

of blue

kind

Tribulation and an^ilh upon every foul that
doeth evil, of the Jewfirft, and alfo of the fmr//;.

a better preparation for enquiries
the dead learning of the
all

One fcience only will one grniut fit
So vaft is art, fo narrow human wit. Po^ on CritUifm.
The Romans, though they had no great geniut for

a

». /.

GE'NTILK. n,f [genlilit. Latin.]
1. One of an uncoveiianted nation;
who knows not the true God.

kind than

fchools.

A gentleman; a min of birth. Njw

1.

colour.

There is no little writer of I'lndanck who is not
ment'.oned as a prodigious g«i///.
AdJiJm.
J.

Mai. Med.

If it be fiftulous, and the orifice fmall, dilate it
ffi/iman's Surgery.

with gentian roots.

A man endowed with fuperior faculties.

2.

/////'.-

bitter tallc.

Daviett

Hrr proper objetl is the Ipecch of men.

Ge'ntle. ». /.

J.

That gentleman t>i Buckingham's in perfon. Shakeff,
It is ufed of any man however high.

The earl of Herelotd was reputed then
Sbakr/^.
In England the molt tiWmt gentleman.
The king is a (iMz g'ntlemait, and my familiar.
Siakejfear*.

GEN
He hoidrth himfelf a gentleman, and fcorntth to
the liie of a pcafant or
churl; kui ciiureih himfelf to his weapon, and to
the grniltmanly trade of dealing.
Sftnjtr.
faith,

is

Pyramus is a fwxet.factd man ; a proper man as
ene (hall fee in a Summer's day; a mod lovely
^^itrmKtilUe man.
Shakef^tarr.
Y.m ha»c irain'd me up like a peafant, hiding
Shakr/p.
from me all gtmilemanlike qualities.
Two clergymen flood candidates for a freefchool,
where a gentleman procured the place for the better
Icholar and more gntl/eman/ji peifon of the two.
Sv.'i/i.

Gs'ntlenes*. »./. [from gent/e.']
Dignity of birth ; goodneis of e.\traftion.

I.

a. Sottnefs of manners, fwectnefsof difpoiition i meeknefs; tendernefs.

My lord Scbalhan,
The truth, you fpeak^doth lack (ome genthiti-fs.
Shake/f.

Your brave and haughty fcom of alls
WailiaKly ahd monarchical;
All gtntUnifs with that cAeem'd

rank

Birth; condition;

1.

derived from

inheritance.

ferent parts.

Clerk-like cspericnc'd, which no lefs adorns
Our gffirr^ than our parent's noble name.
Siak. lH»t. 7Wf.
In whofc fucccfs we are gentle.

Cmiley.

people above the vulgar; thofe
between the vulgar and the nobility.
They flaughtcted many of the gfttry, for whom
no Ux or age could be accepted for excufe. SiJxfy.
I.et (late!,

Mition.
and iohcrentgovdnels
•f the OrmonJ Family. DryJtu'i Faiirt, Driiic.
Changes are brought about lilcnily and infciifibly,
ivilh all imagiuable benignity and gentlenefs.
fViiodwurd'i Natural ItiJIory.

Matters muft correit their fervanls with genileRagrrs.
nfft, prudence, and mercy.
ought not to think gtmlrnt/t ol heart

Women

Bacon.

their nobility and g'""y multiply too fail.

How cheerfully the hawkers cry

A fatyr, and the geniry buy.
3.

Sv'ifl.

A term of civility reil or ironical.

The many coloured gmlry there above,
Prior.
By turns are rul'd by tumult and by love.
Obfolete.
4. Civility ; complaifance.
Shew us fo much gentry and-good-will.
Shakefp.
As to extend your time \Yiih us a-while.

C/arfJ/~a.

wax-candles,

inccnfe,

oblations,

And grow a mtct geographer by love.

Geogra'phical. adj.
from geography.

have Oion g^ftt/t^hif in their hat than in their hc^.
yifcham^t Heht^lmjjifr.

[gentlt and I'xmtin.

See GeiN'tleman.]
A woman of birth above the vulgnr; a

woman well defcended.
fuffer their

iafaiita to be fo long fwathed as poorer people.

Attn.

CK>ih this Sir Hrotheui

Often refort unto this ^e«/Atf o«r.3«,
Shakeffimre.
CtnllrwtmiH may do thcmfelves much good by
upon
a
coDiion,
and
kneeling
weeding.
Bacon.

tion of the various

!

HhakrJ. H^nrji Vlll.

Ker pniltyuonm, like the nereids.
So many mermaids, tended her i' th' eyes,
Sbakrf.
Aud made their bends adorings.

it

Jsot

3.

Now, gutilf^'oman^ yoti arc confefTmg your enor1 know it by that hypocritical down-cad

r-.tties;

Dij'Jin,

look.

Ge'.vtly. aJij [from^r«//^.1
meekly ; tenderly ; inolTenfively
I. Softly
;

kindly.
Mvinidrefi,^/f//y chides the fault I made. Dryd,
The mifchicis that come by inadverlency, or ignorance, are but very grntly to be taken notice of.
Locki.

a. Softly;

without violence.

Fortune's blows,
Wlmn molt Itruck home, being gf»//v warded, craveV
Hhaktfp. d-ribUtiu:.
A poblc cunning.
fort ai great ba', as men lay alkcp with their
\f^t naked, will fuck their blood at a wound fo
Crfw'i Muf.
gtntli made as iiot to awake them.

A

Gi'.NTRY.
gtnt'U.\

n. J\

^^tntlirj,

gtntrj,

from

parts

and the Ctuaof the e.irth.

the knowledge of the feas
and in the largeft fenfe of all, it

includes

alfo;

fpurious ; not counterfeit; real; natural

extends to the various cutloms, habits,
Wati%,
and governments of nations.
Olympus is extolled by the Creeks as attaining

trlic.

Experiments were at one time tried with grnuine
and at another time with fophiiticaied

materials,

The belief and remembrance, andlove and fear of
God, have fo great influence to make men religious,
that where any of thcfi: is, the relt, together with

unto heaven ; but geography makes (light account
when they dilcourleof AndcsorTenerifF.
Broiifi's Fiilgar Errourr.
According to ancient fables the Ar^naufs failed upthe Danube, and from thence pafled into th.c Adri-

thetrueand^ewBweffeasof them, are fuppofed to

atick, carrying their (hips upon their (houlJers ; a-

ones.

B»y/e.

hereof,

mark of great ignorance in geugrapby. Atkutbnot.
The
n. /. [yvi and Aoy®-.]
doctrine of the earth ; the knowledge of
the ftate and nature of the earth.

Tiihf/^n.

True geKK/'« night : night added to the groves.

Dry Jin.
GE'.N-ulNELY.<7</r. [fromgenum.] Without
adulteration, without foreign admixtures

Geo'looy.

virfally than the fire.

a. /. [yi and /*«»ti«.]
fortuneteller; a calier of figures; acheat

who pretends to foretel futurity by other
means than the allrologer.
Fortunetellers,

Boyle.

n e n ess. »./. [from gextiine.] Freedom from any thing counterfeit ; freedom
from adulteration ; purity ; natural ftate.

Ge'k

almoft

all

terreftrial

According to lome thire are four kinds of divinahydromancy, pyromaiicy, aeromancy, and

tion;

gcomancy.

taining to the aft of calling figures.

A general idea is called by the fchools ^rns/r, and
one

Two getmantick figures were difplay'd

common na'ure agreeing to feveral other
and buttcr&y.

Watts.

not ainvcrtiblc into another Species, though of the fame genuxy much lefs can they

}

One when ditedl, and one when retrograde. Dryd. ^

G Eo'm eter. «.y. [yijiUiiT^nt,; geometre, Fr]

Onelkilled in geometry; a geometrician.

He became one of the chief geimetertoi his age.

be furmifed reducible into a fpecies ot aiiothergraui.
flarvty on Catifumftiun.

ITain.

Geoce'ntrick. adj. \^ri andxsiTporj geo~ Geo'metral.
Fr.] Applied to a planet or
orb having the earth tor its centre, or the
fame centre with the earth.
Hants,
[yi*/««ri'<<;

gtodtjjc,

French.] That part of geometry which
contains the doctrine or art of meafuring
furfaces, and finding the contents of all

Did.

geainelry.
1.

lating to the art of meafuring furfaoes ;

furing land.

GE'CGRAPHER.

it.

J.

[yS

and yf-*?";

Pertaining to geometry.

A geometrical (chcme is let in by the eyes, hut
the demoultration is'difcerncd by reafon.
More,
This mathematical dilliplinc, by the help of gro'
metrical principles doih leach to contrive fevcral
powers.
IVilkins.

Geod^'tical. aAj. [from ^e</«y?/7.] Recomprehending or ftiowing the art of mea-

\geomctral,

Geome'trical. \aJj. [y«*'/«'trf«««; geemeGeome'trick. J
trique, P'rench; from

Harris.

plain figures.

French;
Pertaining to geometry.

adj,

hom geametrj.'\

ciiitrique,

GE'ODi^SIA. ». /.

-

Above his head, a warriour, and a maid ;

common natures: fo animal is a genus^ bccaufe it
•agrees to horfe, lion, whale,

Aylijje.

Geoma'ntick. fl(^'. \fxora gamancy.^ Per-

beafts.
it is

the

men of inBrawn^

['/„andix.a,TU.]geo'
mance, French.] The aft of calling figures; the aft of foretelling by figures
what lliall happen.

Boyle.

it

and

gi-&man;ersf

GE'OM.^NCY. «./

not eOential to the gexuintire/i o( colours to

be durable.

jugglers,

incanlatory Impoltors, though commonly
ferior rank, daily delude the vulgar.

I

It is

A

Ge'omancer.

naturally.
There is another agent able to analize compound
bodies lets violently, more grnuinely, and more uni-

If minerals arc

A word of civility or irony.

ftrift

When it is taken in a little larger fenfe,

Siillingjltct.

hending under

The late i|U:en'sfi//nvomdA,a knight's daughter.

To be her miftrefs' miftrefs

gf"-

;

fcnfe, fignifies the knowledge of the circles of trie earthly globe,

GE'AVS. n. /. [Latin.] In fciejice, a clafs
of being, comprehending under it many
fpecies: as quadruped is a gcnm compre2. A woman who waits about the perfon of
one of high rank.

Fr.

'\

Minerva leu UlylTcs into the knowledge of hit
country; (he geographically dcfciibes it to him.
Broome on the Odyffey.

,

The grnt/iKt/t of all the gods go with thee. Siji.
n. J. [from gerit/e.] CarObfolete.
riage of a gentleman.
Some in France, which will needs be gentlemen,

Ticiel,

[geographique,

Relating to geography;
Belonging to geography.
Geogra'phically. ad<v. [from geigro'
ph'ia/.^ In a geographical manner; according to the rules of geography.

prayers only ex-

A ^fudden darknefs covers all

Ge'ktleship.

Addifon*

From fea to Tea, from realm to realm I rove.

ing the knee; .adoration expreffed by
bending the knee.

Obfolete.

The gentlrwomen of Rome did not

geographers.

Genufi. e'ction.w./. [^f»»/fcA-»(!»,French; Geo'craphy ». y. [y! and vf"?"
graphie, French.] Geography, in a
ge/iu and^f<75, Latin.]
The aft of bend-

be.

1.

how

that aim at jreatnefs, take heed

Gt-'NUINE. adj. [geuuinut, Latin.]

Her maiden gfitiletirft, and oft at eve
Vifiis the henli.
The perpetual gentlentfa,

Ge'nti.ewoma n. n.f.

Brtntne^

The bay of Naples is called the Crater by the old

2. Chfs of

cepted.

Still the retiins

3. Kindnefs; benevolence.

A greater part of the earth hath ever been peopled
duo hath been kiMwn or defcribcd by gfograf hers.

Here ufe all tfie rites of adoration, gemijlexhiii,

A dull and llavitli »irtue fecmcd.

defpicable in a man.

gfngraphf, Fr.] One who dcfcribes fte
earth according to the pofition of its dif-

You are certainly a gentleman,

piao of birth.
WBrk, which, he

GEO

GEO

Gintlemajili'kb. \aJJ. IttntJeiimH and
Ge'ktle MANLY. J //i*. J Becoming a

2.

Prcfcribed or laid down by geometry.
Mutt men take the meafurc ot God luft by th<
fame giomeiricai profortioas that be did, that ga.
tbA'd

GEO

GE S

iker*i the height and bignefs of Hcrmles hy hfs
foot >
StUViTiifieet

Ge'rent. adj, [g'reitt, Latin.] Carrying;
Ge'rfalcon.

A bird of prey, in

/".

fize between a vulture

That tile dimcnfions oi his glorious face

of the greateft ftrength oext to the eagle,

G e'r M A N

\germain, French ; germaBrother; one approaching
to a brother in proximity of blooa : thus
the children of brothers or fillers are called
coufins cermait, the only fenfe in which

'Tis poffible gr!,mciri!-ai!y to contrive filch an
artificial motion as fliall be of greater fwiftnefs thai
the revolutions of ihe heavens.
IViikirts't Mali.

All the bones, mufcles, and vcffels of the body are
contrived mo\l gcimeirku/iy, accoitling to the ftricteft rules of niechaniclcs.
Ji,iy.

C BOM E T I'c IAN. n. /. [ytufi^iTftK-]
flcilled in

in a complicated

made up of many lines and circles

To

Obfolete.
Nol he alone (hall TufTerwhat witcan make heavy,
and vengeance bitter; bul ihofe that are gfi-ma;; 10
him, though removed fifty times, (hall come under

were differing enough, though prettily ihaped, as if
nature had at once atfeOed variety in their figuration,
and yet confined herfelf to geomtfr.'-cf.
Soy/e.

the hangman.

Ge'emf. ».y;
or (hoot;

part

Whether

Raj on lie Crtjiiiji.

GeoPo'nICal. aJj. [-/9 and tm®-; grr/poRetaring to agriculture ;

relating to the cultivation of the ground.
Such eipreflions are fre<)uent in authors grapuri.
Bra^tr.

Geopo'nicks. n. /. [yiand»«;^.] Tht:
the

it

1 .

Ah, my filler, if you had heard his words, or fcen
he made me know what and to

whom

Ge'rund.
the

•

SiJne)!.

When we make profcflisn of our faith, we ftand;
when we acknowledge our fins, or feek unto God
for favour, we fall down;
becaufe the gejiure of
conllancy becometh us bell in the one, in the other
Hotker.
the behaviour of humility.
To the dumbnefs of the gr/iwe

One might iiiteiprct. Sb^iktjpejre's TimonofAtbens.
Humble antl' revijrend gtjiitrei in our li^ roaches
to God cxprefs the

inward reverence of our fouls.
Duly of Man.

Movement of the body.

To Ge'sture. t}. a. [from the noun.
accompany with adion or pofture.

Hlod-waril.

Grace was in all her Iteps, heav'n in her eye,
In ev'iy^f_^«re dignity and love! Milion^ i P ar ,Lofi,
Every one will agree in this, that we ouglit either
to layaiidc all kinds of gejlare, or at leatl to make
ufe of fuch only as arc graceful and expixlfive.
Addifan's Spictalor,

•

wc Ihall handle
Baton.

n. /.

Beniley', Sermons:

{gertttidium,

Latin grammar,

a

Latin.]

Jn

kind of verba!

Doun, whic-li governs cafes like a verb,
(jESi. n. f. [g^um, Latin.]
1. A deed; anadion; an atchievement.
Who fair thfm qi.itcs, as him beleemed beft,
And ^wA^ Hn difcoutic with miijy * noble g^rj!.
S^tnjtr

,

To

Our attire difgraccth it, it is not orderly read,
ilooker\
nor grjlured as bef^emelh.
Me undertook fd to grfturc and mufile up himfelf
in his hood, as the duke's manner was, that none
fVotien,
(hould difcem him.

To GET. t--. a.

pret.

/ ^."Z, anciently jr?/;

part. paff. ^0/, or gotten, [jetan, jit'an,

H'ottcn.

nation.

And learn the lahonriof ItalUd Iwait.s.
Cjv
Geo'Ticic. adj. [from v^-] Be^ongiag to

was, you would have matched in

face of the earth.

There is but little fimilitude between a lerrcous
humidity and fUnui germinaiiotit.
Clanvillc.
Suppole the earih Ibould b- carried to the great!
dirtance ol Saturn; theie tl.c whole globe would be
one frigid aoue j there would be no hre, no ga mi-

Here I perufe the Mantuan'sgrw^/V;! firaiiis,

his love

2.

fcent/i.

of agriculture.

French.]
Aftion or pofture expreffive of fentiment.

his gtjiurei, wlien

;

germination; and furcly, had he been a plant, he
would have been reckoned among the/pontt na.

Oeo'rcick. adj. Relating to the dodrine

gefliculate,'\

various poftures.

delight.

brown loaf. Of this fenfe I know not
the original.
Cubb'd in a cabbin, on a maltrafs laid,
Oo a brown j«>r^,, with lowly fwobbers, fed. DryJ.

bandry put into a pleafing drefs, and fet
off with all the beauties and fmbellilhments of poetry.
Addijon.

from

youifclf thofe two rarely matched together, pity and

The Duke of Buckingham had another kind of

LjEORCICK. It. J. [vie/pvixo ; gtorgiques,
Fr.]
Some part of the fcience of huf-

;

Lat.

\grjliculatio,

y.

This adlion is furthered by the chalcites, which
hath within a fpiritihat will put forth iwA germinate,
as we fee in chymical trials.
Bacin's Saiutal Hijt.
The feeds of all kinds of vegetables being planted
near the furfice of the earth, in a convenient foil,
amongd matter proper for the formation of vegetables, would geimixaie, grow up, and rcplenilh the

For acceleration of ^^'i-BuVa/fOT,
the fiibjedl of plants grnerally.

A

?/.

French;

gijlicula'.ion,

A (hoot-

W.

liui.

GisTicwL a'tion.

fhooting: growth.

;

the earth; terrcKtial,

,

;

Gkrmi.na'tion.»./: [germination, French,
itam germinate.] The ad of fprouting or

George.?/, y. [Georght, Latin.]
1. A figure of St. George on horfcback
worn by the knights of the garter.
I/Jok on my genrge, I am a gentleman
Hhakcfp. Henry

re GESTI'CULATE. t: n. [gfjlicuhr, \^\\n\ gejliciiler French.]
Toplayantick
tricks; to fhew poftares.
Diet,

To Gti'RMINATE.o'. «. {gtrmiiio, Latin.]
Tofprout; tofhoot; to bud; to put forth.

DryJ.

he carried 10 the em-

bryo in the womb, which at other times gicth not
that way?
Hay on lie Creation.

Crack nature':- mould, all gcrmini fpill at once
That make ungrateful man.
Ulakejf. King Lear.

Who thinks all Icicnce, as all virtue, rain;
Who counts gecmeOy and numbers toys,

Latin.]

Why in viviparous animals, in the time of gr/n-

Antick tricks

Thou all-lhaking thunder.
Strike flat the thick rolundily o' the world

Him alfo for my cenfor I difdaio,

[gefiaiis,

tion, (houid the nourilhmcnt

Their heads to their foundations; though the Ircafure
Of nature's jfrim/>j tumble all together.
Even 'till dellruOion licken ; anfwer me
To what I alk you.
Sbukefpcare'i Macieih.

u

Bra-wn.
n. /.

Ariftotle affirmeth ihe birth of the infant, or time
of its grfiation, extendeth fomctimes unto the eleventh month ; but Hippocrates avers that it erceedeih not the tenth.
Bmun,

ing or fprouting feed.
Outofufe.
Though palaces ar.d pyramids do dope

the former of which coniemplaies and
hears of the properties of continued ijuaniity abftrjitedly; and the latter applies ihefe fpeculations and
ufc and practice.
theorems
Han is.
In the mufcles alone there feemi to be more gremttry than in all the artificial engines in ihe mirld

the gejls and progi-efj

Afprout
Ge'sture. ».y. \_gero,gtJium,\.Ai.l\ti\ gtjle,
which grows and

Ge'xmin. ?/./. [^cr«M, Latin.]

practical;

down

In -all fenfes ob-

The
ad of bearing the young in the womb.

Miller.

be not made out of ihegerme, or
treadle of the egj, doth d^.n of letfer doubt. Brc-wn.

or magnitude abftraftedly confidej-ed, without any regard to matter.
Gnmetry U ufually divided inio fpcculativc and

Sbakifpeare'i Irinter's Tale.

much of a journey as palfes

fo

Gesta'tion.

[^ermeu, Latin.]
that

;

He<diftin£tly fcis

fpreads.

fion,

Rite me at what ihou wilt.

A plant.

cbameedryi, Latin. [

French.]
f)rii;inally fi^niHes (he art of
meafuring the earth, or any diftsnccs or
ilimenfioiM on or within it : bar it is now
nfed for the fcience of qirnntity, exten-

fcience of cultivating the ground;
dodrine of agriculture.

Sbakfpeaie.

Gh'RMANDER. ti. f. [grrmandree. French

GEO'METRY.*-./ [vj-//-^;^; gea^«eir:,,

tal, or fuch as have treated Jc re ruftUj.

thereof.

Ge'r M A N. adj. [germanus, Latin.] Related.

We obtained good ftore of cryftals, nhofc figures

niqut, French.]

mous Amphialus.
Sidney.
And to him faid, go now, proud mifcreant,

Sbalsefpeare'i'Tim^n.
You'll have your nephews neigh to you; you'll
have courfers for coufins, and genets for germatis.
ahakefpeare^l Olbello.

aft accordiag to the laws of geometry.

Ami with his toot ihe farred duft dclfroys.

A flage

on thy life.

diazram,
train.

To Geo'meTRIZE. 1!. a. [ys4i^»7fi*i.]

Pieftx'd for'", parting.

4.

without interruption.

be kill'd by the
horfe; werl thou a hotfc, ihou wouldrt be fei/.'d by
the leopard ; wert thou a leopard, xhon Vfzvx. grrman
to the lion, and the fpots of thy kindred were juiies

geometry; a geometer.

give you Jtiy commi jtion,

To let him there a month, behind the f^,

folete.

Wert Ihou a bear, ihoj wouldit

Although thecr be a certain truth, rMmetridani
would not leceive fatisfadion withotit demonftration
thereof,
Bro-wn.
How eafily does an njvn giomitrkian, with one
t|4ancc of Ms eye, take

was

Ha/imer,

I '11

their coufin geriaair, the fa-

it

Thyfelf thy raefiage do togerman dear. Fairy Sluern,

One

it

French.]

the word is now ufed.
TTiey knew

young and old.

and ilagcs prefixed, in the progrefTes of
parkings, many of them being ftill extant
in the herald's office, [from gijle, or gite,

nus, Latin.]

According to the laws of geometrv-.

feprefcntation.
;
Gr^j Ihould be interlarded after the jPerfian man-

The roll or journal of the feveral days,

3.

n. f.

.

Show

ner, by ages,

Bailey.

Geome'trically. atlnj. [from gecmeirieal.]

and a hawk, and

Blachnare,

3, Difpofed according to geometry.
Giometrick jafper feemcth of affinity with the
Ijiphfungumalit it(cT\hti byBoetius; but it is certainly one fort of hph cruciformh.
Grciv'i Muf.

2.

w.

Is fuch, or not much bigger than he fcems ?

Two .if«mc/r/r> feel dc jrce furpafs ?

,

Via.

bearing.

Does not this wife philofophcr altert,
That the vaft orb, which carts io fair his bcamsy

»

GET
2.

I.

8axon.]
To procure; to obtain.
Thine be the cofF I, veil hall thou \t grA. Sp,rtfer,
Of that which was our father's hath he g'titm all
this glory.

Cen. xxxi.

I.

We gat our bread with the peril of our lives.
Sam. V. g.
David Pat him a name when he returned from
fmiting olthe Syri.ins.
i .S'.im. vni. 13.
Moll of thcfe things might be more exaiSly tried
by the Torricellian experiments, it wc could get
tubes fo accurately blown that tlit cavity were perfeflly cylindrical.

Bty!,',

Such a confcicnce, as has not been wanting to
itftlf, in endeavouring to get the ntmolt and clcuclt
infoimation about (he will ol God, tliat its power,
advaniagci,

Ht inrrnlih'y jjr a facility, without percciv.i;;
how jnd thit is attributed wholly to nafire, » hull
;

wai much mote the cfifcdot ufe andpra^ice. Lidi.

f

The man who lives upon alms,
« him hii fet of
admirers, and delights in fupcriority.
AdJifyn*
Sphinx wjs a moailer that would eat
Whatever ftrangcr ihe could get.
Unlets his ready wit difclosM,

The fablle riddle (he propos'd. AJJt/iit't KTiig Bx.
This pra^icc is to be ufcd at ftrft,
a fixed habit of attention, and in fome cai'ei only,

in order to get

"The woM gtt is varioulVy ufed we fay to g^i
money, to gri in, to ^« off, to gi.' ready, to ^ft a
:

Haiti.

ftomach, and to gel a cold.

To force

2.

Such

•

;

to feize.

lofcls and fcattcrlings cannot eafily,

by any

conllaMe, or other ordinary officer, be ^o/«w, when
they are challenged for any fuch fafl,
Sfenfcr.
'n>e king feeing this, Ibirted from where he laf,
Djniel,
his
weapon
^»:'.
Out fromhis trembling hand
All things, but one, you can rtdore^
Ifjller.
Tlic heart you gtt netums no more.

Henry the fixth hath toft
All that which Henry the fifth had gillen. Shakeff.
He j^r his people great honour, and he made
battles, protecting the hoft with his fword.

Mac. iii. J.

I

To gel the day of them of 4115 own nation, would
a Mac. v. 6.
be a mod unhappy day for him.
Auria held that courfe to have drawn the gallies
uithin his great Ihips, who thundering amnngft them
with their great ordnance, might have opened a way
Krtollet,
unto his gallies to have gotten a viflory.

To have poffeffion of;

4.

efcaped.

twenty.

KnoUet*i Ihjiiry cfti^ Tttrxi,
out of Armenia.
She playt with his rage, and gtti above his anger.

forcing thee,

by fire he made thee bright;

Nay, thou halt ^0; the face of man.
To' beget upon a female.

Uirbert,

5.

I

Thefe-boys are boys of ice; they'll none of her
French
ever ^0/ them.
Shah/fcare.
Women with (hldy'd arts they vex
Ye gods deftroy that impious fex
And if there muft be fome t'invoke
Your pow'rs, and make your altars fmobe.

Come down yourfelvcs, and, in their place,

Cn a more juft and nobler race.

Waller,
Children they jof on their female captives. O^ckf.
If yoii'll take 'em as their fathers ^or 'em, fo and
well; if not, you muftftay 'till they g« a better generation.
Drjdert^
Has no man, but who has kill'd
father, right to gel a child ?
Piicr.
Let ev'ry married man, that's grave and wife.
Take a tartulf of known ability.

A

Who (hall fo fettle lafting reformation

how we may^c/ it thus informed,
Scutb.

with fire.
Ahbot.
Take no lepulfc, whatever (he doth fay
For, get you gone, fhe doth not mean away. Sbak.
He who attempts to^« another man into his abfolute power, does thereby put hjmfelf into a (late of
war with him.
Locke.
Before your ewes biing forth, they may be pretty
well kept, to giT^ them a little into heart. Moriimer.
Hciiin, who was taken up in embalming the
bodies, vifited the place very frequently ; his gtcatct\
perplexity was how to get the lovers out of it, the

Guardian.

gates being watched.

To draw; to hook.

and fmiling upon thee^rt out thy fccrets. Exclcf. xiii.
By the marriage ot his grandfon Ferdinand he
got into his family the kingdoms of Bohemia and
Addijon,
Hungary.
After having got out of you every thing you can
Guardian.
fpare, I fcorn to trefpafs.

To betake; to remove; implying hafte

or danger.
Get you to bed on th' inllant ; I will be return 'd
Stakefpeare' s Oibello.

I.scte.

To gain a fupcriority or advantage.
If they get ground uid 'vantage of the kmg.

of a metal, or other niii^ral body, we may fuppofc
this quicklilver to have been a perfeft body of its
own kind.
Boyle,
They would be glad to gel out thofc weeds wFich
own
hands
have
planted,
their
and which now have
taken too deep root to be eafily extirpated.
Locke.

Get of.

To receive as a price or reward.
raifes their price,

for them ; but a tax laid on your

awiitics JefTcos (hcirfHCC.

home-made comJjckt.

me.

Taller.

Bucephalus would let no hoiygel upon him but
Alexander the Great.
Addifon oti Italy,
Imprilbn'd tires, in the clofe duogeoni pent.
Roar to get looh, and (Iruggle for a ventj
Eating their way, and undermining all,
'Till with a mighty burft whole mountains fall.
AJJj/in,

When Alma now, in difT'rent ages,
Has finilh'd her afcending (lages,
Into the head at length Ihe gets.

And there in publick grandeur fits,

To judge of things.
refolvcd

1

To fall

Shaktff,

When an egg is made hard by boiling. Knee there
nothing that appears to get in at the Ihell, unleJj

Bi-ylt.

He raves ; his words are loofe

Swi/i.

As heaps of faiid?, and fcattering wide from fenfc
So high he's mounted in his air) hope.*.
That now the wind is got into his head.
And turns his brains to freniy. Dryd. Sfan. Fryar.
A child runs to overtake and get up to the top of
hit (h;idow, which (till advances at the fame rate

To arrive at any (late or pofttire by degrees with fome kind of labour, effort,
ufcd either of perfons or

things.

that he does.

Locke.
Should drelTing, feafling, and balls once get among
the Cantons, their military roughnefs would be
quickly loll.

that fame wha are pricked for Iheriffs, and were fit,

Bjcm'i /Uvice K yUllen.

Addijbn.

The fluids which furround bodies, upon the fur-

H.W

(hould get out of the bill.

Sv)i/t.
;

fome little particles of the water, it is not eafv to
difcovcr from whence elfe this change proceeds than
from a change made in the texture ol the parts.

To Get. i/. n.

:

Prloi:

break through all meafurci to get

to come by accident.
Two or tliree men of the town are got among
them.
Taller.
3. To find the way; to infinuate itfelf.
2.

Wood, to gel his halfpence off, offered an hundred

or difficulty

to

away.

To fell or difpofe of by

I utterly condemn the praftice of the latter times,

l^cke,

out of mifery, and confequently the Hrll thing to be
done, in order tohappinefs, ablentgood.
Locie.
If, having go.' into the fenle of the epiftlct, we
will but compare what he fays, in the places where
he treats of the fame fubjefl, we can hardly be miftaken in his fcnfe.
Locke,
1 got up as fall as pofTible, girt on my rapier, and
fnatahed up my hat, when my landlady came up t»

fome expedient.

i>

Lo.-ke.

The removingof the pains we feel, is the gelling

is

and makes the importer g// more

Having no mines, nor any other way o( getting or
keeping of riches but by trade, fo much ot our trade
as is lofl, fo much of our riches muft nccelliirily go
with it.
tcJe.
If it be fo much pains to count the money I would
(ftni, what labour did it colt my anceftors toni it ?

go on to his next argument.

To put.

18. 78

Burnet.

Having^/ through the foregoing palTago, let ui

would oftentimes fallen upon the gold in fuch plenty,
as would put him to much trouble \.o get them oS
from his rings.
Boyle.
When mercury is got by the help of the fire out

Any tax laid on foreign commodities in England

Siiji,

The more oily and light part ol this mafs would

Knolles.

Phalantus was entrapped, and faw round about
him, but could not gel out.
Sidney,
You knew he walk'd o'er perils, on an edge
More likely to fall in than to get o'er. Sbak.
The llranger (hall g« up above thee very high,
and thou (halt come down very low. Deui. xxviii.43.
The fox bragged what a number of (hilts and
devices he had to gel from the hounds, and the cat
faid he had but one, which was to climb a tree.
Bacon.
Thofe that are very cold, and efpecially in their
Bacon's Natural Uljfory.
feet, cannot ^^^ to fleep.

Then join you with them like a rib of (led.
9. To earn ; to gain by labour.

'till tir'd betbie the dog Ihe lay
Who, llietcird behind her, pants upon the plain,
Paft pow'r to kill, as Ihe togrf away.
Dryjen.

Knolics*s kiiji^jry.

She was quickly got off the land again.

17.

Ifilkint,

heav'n, in what a lab'rinth am I led |
I could get out, but (he detains the lliread ! Drydm,
So have I feen fome fearful hare maiutaiis

To remove by force or art.

pounds in his coin for feveniy iu filver.

come, yet the debtors and tenants will not gel it.

air could ger out.

The roving fumes of quicklilver, in evaporating,

CrunvUle.
I'hough creditors will lofe one fifth of their principal and ufc, and landlords one tifth of their in-

fo various, that ilie undcrtlanding falls under a
kind of defpondency of gelling through fi great a
talk.
H.:le-, Origin of MaikhrJ.
If there Ihould be any leak at the bottom of the
velfcl, yet very little water would get in, becaufe o*
is

alfo

to the (Irong town of Mega.

16.

Mixt with the day, and got the queen of love.

To gain as profit.

objet.^ full of excellency, yet the multiplicity thereof

unto our enemies, and tight
againft us, and fo get them up out of the land.
Exodus, i. 10.
He with all fpeed got himfelf with his folloucrs
X.eft they join

Biy/e,

Although the univerfe, and every part thereot, arc

ff thee out from this land. Gf«.xxii. 13.

C» on thy boots; we'll ride all night.
Dor/el.

The god of day, defcending from above,

through the cork.

get above the other, and fv^-im upon it.

With much communication will he tempt thee,

Arife,

and (o disjoin them.
Biyle.
There was but an infenlible diraiiiution oi tlic
liquor upon the recefs of whatever it wai that got

Spe3ator,

companion.

15.

Denhd^%
Boyle,
Tli: lalilant air had got away in bubbles.
1'hcre are f*w bodies whofe minute parts (lick fb
dofe togeilirr, but that it is pullible to meet with
fome oihcr body whofe fmall parts may get between,

A courfe,

13. To prevail on; to induce.

14.

Kntiliti.

iL wo'jid be at their backs before they conM get

H'ails.

12. 'I'o put into any ftatc.
Nature taught them to make certain 'vcflels of a
tree, which tjicy got down, not with cutting, but

;

Firft gel a fon, then give him education.

9.

ihall l1iew

and afterwards prefcrve and keep it fo.

fure they arc faaftaids to the Englilh, the

7.

ufeful words

To

forthwith.

terite.

6.

Fell.

Gel by lieart the more Cbmmon a)nd
out of fome judiciu'is vocabulary.
procure to br.
11.

This

to have.

and liirJIy

This defeO he rre<|uently lamented , it being harder
with him to gtt oue fiifinou by heart than to pen

fcnfe is commonly in the compound pre-

Then

He gtl vivj uoto the Chriftian;,

w. To learn.

Though the king could not get him to engage in a
life of bufinefs, he made him however his chief

To win by conteft.

3.

GET

GET

G E T
»l»»nt»J«l, »nl 9f(»r:ur.u';c« could ifTofd U, U Alt
gre»t irnemil jujjf, whoCe iblolution u a nlloml
South,
ind fure |roiinJ of confi4er\ce.

face of the globe, get
dies,

m between the furfjcc of bo.

when they arc at any diftance.

Cbeynt,

To move; to remove.

4.

Gel home with thy fewel make ready to fetj
The fooiier, and eafier carriage to get.
TuJJtt,
5. To have recourfe to.
The Turks made great halle through thcmidft of
the

town ditch, toge/up into the bulwark to faelf

their fellows.

Knollei'j Hifitry.

Lying 4t fa cheap -a aorci fo( any mifcarriage,

and

GET

G H E

G I A

in fafliior, that a child can fcarce be

thinp ; and it is \eU difhonourable to ahridje » petty

L<xifkept from grf'^S '"° ''•
6. 'I'o go ; to repair.
1 hey ran to their weapons, and furioufly aSailed
the Turks, now tearing no fuch jnafter, and were
Kmllti'i Hilltiry.
not as yet all /fc./ into tJ caftle.
knot of ladies, gor together by themfelves, is a
Sviift.
very fchool of impertinence.

Bacon.
charge than to ftoop to petty gellings.
The meaner families return a fmall (hare of their

fo mucli

tnl

•

[jejap, Saxon; Jqyau,
French.] A (howy trifle; a toy ; a liauble;

A

They might get over the river Avon at Stratford,
and gtt between the king and Worcefter. CiarrnJoti.
We can neither find (burce nor ilfuc for fuch an
eiceffire roafs of waters neither where to have them ;
nor, if we had them, how to gel ouit of them.
Burnet's Theory of the Earth.
Without his afTiftance we can no more get (jnit
his permiflion we (hould
of our afHiflion, than but by
'
It'aie
have fallen into it.

Often did I (trive
but iVill the envious flood
;

Philips.
For pageantry and tawdry grw»*r«/r.
The firit images were fans, tilks, ribbands, laces,
and many other ge^ga^s, which lay fo thick that
the whole heart was nothing elfe but a toylhop.
Addi/on^i Guardian,

Ge'wgaw. adj. Splendidly triiiiDg; (howy

before.

The laughing fot, like all unthinking men.
tlien

without value.

bathes and drinks

Let him that would learn the happinefs of religion, fee the poor gruguit happinefsof Feliciana
jLnv'r Serious Call.

D>jden.

again.

To be a gainer

to receive advantage.
;
Like jewris to advantage fet.

ToGiT off.

Gh a'stful. eidj. [^aj-r and pullc, Saxon.]

Waller.

Her beauty by the fiiade does get,

Dreary; difmal; melancholy; fit for walking fpirits. Obfoletcj

'I'o efcape.

The gallica, by the benefit o( the (hores ^d (hallows, ^0/ 0^

Here will 1 dwell apart.
In ghejiful fntty 'till my lall flecp
Do clolc mine eyes ;
Heh> me, ye baneful birds, whofe Ihrieking found
Is (jgn of dreary death
Spenfer'i Pajlcratt.

h^ar XfitO&'fai/i,

Hitecrt't

Whate'er thou doft, deliver not thyfword ;

With that thou ma) 'ft get off, i!io' odds Of pofe thee.
Dry Jen.

Get

wtr. To con<]ner;- to fupII. To
prefs ; to pafs withont being flopped in

rour of coontenance;
ghoft ; palenefs.

'Tis very pleafant to hear the lady propofe her
doubts, and to fee the pains he is at to get oier
AilJiJin.
them.
1 cannot gel ryer the prejudice of t:ikirgfan:e litSxii/j.

Stvlfi.

4ifpiites.

»2.

Get

1.3.

loGtruf.

To

7»
rife from repofe.
«/,
Sheep will get yf betimes in the merniiig to feed
againft rain,
Baegn's Natural U'Jl-^y.

To rife from a feat,

1^ To remove from a place.
Cet you up from about the tabernacle of Korah,
Dalhan, and Abiram.
Numi.tXv\.

15. To g*/, in all its (Ignifications, both
active and neutral, implies the acquifition
of fomething, or the arrival at fomc ftate

or pkce by fome ineans
except in the
ufe of the preterite compound, which
often implies mere poflelfion
as, he has
got a good ejlatt, docs not always mean
that he has acquired, but barely that he
poflcfles ir.
So we fay the lady has got
black eyti, merely meaning that fhe has
them.
Ge'tter. ar. /. [from^f/.]

—

Peace

is

t),

1

ehildrcn than v«r'i a deflroyer of men.

1.

we (hall then fccalTiUir^g about the maChriA, with their once vile bodies

trao^figuitd into the likenefs of hit glorious bodv,

mingling their glad acclanutionswith the halleltijahs
Boyle.
of thrones, princTpaliiies and powers.
He came, but with futh aliei'd looks.
So wild, fo ghajily,, as if fomc ghrifl had met him,
All pale and fpeechlefs.
Ursden' s ^panijh Friar,

;

did not foi thefe ghajlli vifions fef>d ;

2.

Horrible; (hocking; drcodful.

Dryd,

.

To be lef? than go»ls
Difdain'd ;

but meaner th'iughls learn'd in their

flight.

Mangled with ghajlly wounds through plate and mail.
Milton.

and wiib all thy getting get unJerftanding.
PrerV. iv.

2, Gain ; profit.

Wbo bwi a ftaie to rcf air may not dcfpife fmall

Shake/peart,

[irova ghjij.']

bpiri-

tual tendency ; quality of having referenCfc

chiefly to the foul.

Gho'stly, «://. [from ^Ac/?.]
Spiritual; relating to the foul ; not carnal

;

not fe ular.

Save and deieiid us from out 2/6°^/y enemies.

Common Piayer^^
Our common ncccfTitles, and the lack which w*
as well of giojlty .is of earthly favours, is

God,

and times, which he in
meet, aie fo dlvcrfely behis fecrct wifdom
appeareth
what all receive,
feidom
that
it
llowed,
what all ftaiid in need of, it feldom lieth hid. Hooker.
accofiliiig to thefe degrees

feeih

than worldly benefits, and our gh^Jljy evils of greater
importance than any harm which the body fceleth.
Hooker,
To' dei\y me the ghoji'y comfort of my chaplains,
uled
than
is
ever
by
barbarity
f.-ems a greater

King Ctartei.

Chriftians.
2..

Having a charafter from religion;

fpi.-'

ritual
Heiice will I to my ghcjily friar's clofe cell,"

His help to crave, and my dear hap to tell. ShUkefp.
The gh^jlly lather now hath done his lhrift.W..>.

GIA'LALINA. n.f.

[Italian.]

f arth of a

blight gold colour, found in ftie kingdomofNaples, very fine, andmuch valued
IVorJiuard's Met. Frjf.
by painters.
Gia'mbeux. »./.[y(jmi«, French.] l^gs,
or armour for Icijs ; greaves.

The moiial ftcel difpileoufly entail'd,
That

a large purple

ftieam adown their g'umbciix

fall.

Gbajlly with wounds, and lifclcfs on the bier !
Prior.

jaj-t, Saxon.]
Ghaftlinefs ; horrour of look. Not iifcd.
Look you pale, miftr^fs?

.Spen/er,

Gl'ANT, »./. [geant, French; g'gas, t.at.]

A man of fizc above fhe ordinary rate of
men; a mm unnaturally large. It is obfervahle, that the idea of a jjiant is alwavs

Do you perceive the ghojineft of the eye Sbakrjp,
Gh'erkin. }^ j. ffiom Pffjf/r, (jprman, a
cucumber.] A finall pickled cucumhcr.

aOTociatcd with pride, brutality, and rt-ick-

Skinntr.

Hang loole about him, like a glaitl's rohe
Sbakejf. Mactetb.
Upon a dwitWh Uiief.

?

•/.

Gho'stmness. »./.

D<!ep in their flelh, (jiiite through the iron walls.

Ghas'tness. n. J. [from

Wifdom is the ptincipaJ thing, therefore get wif-

dom

1

Their fuddea coming dc>es'fome ill portend.

Shaktjii.

Aft of getting; acquifition.

There faw you labouring lor him.

The graces of the fpirit are much more precious

who make fhe triumph of to-day.
May of to-morrow't pomp one pan appear,

Ge'tting. tt.J. [from p<-/.]

Julius Czfar

Who at Philippi the good Brutus ghoJi,d,

Death
Gtinn'd borribltj^Aa/'/vfmile, to hear
Hi; famine ihould be fill'd. Milton's Paradift Ltfl,
1 hofe departed friends, whom at our Uli feparation we faw distigur^d by all the gLjJily hfrrours
of death,

Sidntjf,

(he ghcfted.

To Ghost, i/. a. To haunt with appariObfolete.
tions of departed men,

in each kind fo ealily known, but the gifts of

Shakrff,
EnvyquicklydifcOveredincourtSolyman'schanged
countenance upon the great baffa, and began now
Knoltes,
to' (hew her ^Aj/?// face.

jelJick throne of

Not in ufe.

Euryalus taking leave of Lucretia, precipitated
her into fuch a love-fit, tliat within a few houri

all hj>-e,

have pal> a miferable ntghl

I

a vtry lethargy, a geitir of saorc baftatd

yield up the ghoft ; to die.

Why looks your grace fo heavily to-day ?

:

One who procures or obtains.
a. One who begets on a female.

Our army lies ready to give up the ghcjl. Shakefh.'
The third perfon in the adorable Trinity,
called the Holy Ghoft.
To Ghost, -v. n. [from the noun.] To
4

I.

Sd full of iTgly fights, ol ghajtiy dteams.
So full of difitial terrour was the lime.

;

I.

Their (hadows feem

A canopy molt fatal, under which

countenance; pale ; dreadful; difmal.
i

palched 4» Vienna, xaigsi tver fotne parr of thtfe

refcmblance of a

GHA'.t.TLY. adj. [?;aj^, OTghcftmi lile.]
1. Like a ghoft ; having horrour in the

tle offtnocai the clergy, for perpetiieily readinj their

To remove this diflBculiy, Peterborough was dit-

Dryden.

To grvf up tkeGvio%r. To die; to yield
up the fpirit into the hands of God.

Gha'st. iNFSs. »./. \(x6m ghajily.'\ Hor-

thinking or aAing.

lermont.

The mighty gio^f ot our great Harrys rofe.
And armed tdwards look'd with anxious eyes.
To fee this fleet among unequal foes.
By which fate promis'd them tlieir Charles (hould rife.
3.

Of ancient frieiidlhip, cancel nature's laws

Sbakr/peore's Richard HI*

A fpirit appearing after death.

2.

Some loolc the bands

To become by any aft what one was not

!

To yield the ghoj}
Kept in my (oul

A Y\tiv^ ge^gav, call'd a crown, that fpread

happieft end of tfiis life, fo the next felicity is to get
Pope to S-wiJt.
rid of fools and fcoundreli.

10-

•

About his temples, drown'd his narrow head.
Dryden't Juvenal.
And would have crulhed it.

Ai the cbtaining the love of valuable men is the

9.

Vex not hisgi'v' Oi '«' l^'™ P^fs He hates him,
That would upon the rack of this I'ough world
Shakejpeare^s King I,xar^
Stretch him out longer.

Dry den.

'

There is a fort of men who pretend to
themfelves of partiality on both fides, and to get
above that imperfect idea of their fubjeft which little
wiitcrs fall into.
{'•fe ox Homer.

Bathes and gen drunk ;

The foul of man.

1

Straight a more foolifh gfwgaw comes- in play.

divert

8.

GHOST. «./. [jaj-r, Saxon.]

a fplendid plaything.
That metal they exchanged for the meaneft trifles
and ge^t'ginvs which the othea could bring. Abbot,
Prefer that which Providence has pronounced to
be the ftafF of life, before a glittering jewgaw that
has no other value than what vanity has fet upon it.
L'£/f range.
As children, when they throw one toy away,

To put one's felf in any Rate.

y.

». /.

Ghtjt

by criticks confidered as the true orthography, but_f»^ has nniverfally prevailed.]
1 o conjefture.
is

Sw/i.

gettings, to be a portion for the child.

Ge'wgaw.

To Ghess. -v. li. [See To Gvess.

ednefs.

Now does he feel his axle
GaWi

.

G

O 1 B
Uamaiifuiiered death himfeirnpen ihtxtpf giiltei
VUfiiairge.
that he had provided for another.
Papers lay fuch principles to the Tories, as, if
tlicy were true, our next butin-cfi Ihould be to erc^
gtbbctt )q evfry pariUbt and hang them out of the
Sv>i/i.
'
wfav.

Cattt ofmonircht

Are irchM lb h\(^h ihai gi^wn may jet tbraugh,
Ard keep their impious lurbaofon, without
X/ood-morrow to the fun,
Sbakfjf, Cymitiinr.

Woman's gentle brain
\

reitouti,

'

.

2.

2.

;

[from

f.

g>aiit.'\

A

l^id

ta^

Afneerer; one
who turns others to ridicule by contemptuous hints ; a fcoffer ; a taunter.
You are well undcrltood to be a more pcffeA

V

giber of the table, than a neccflary bencher of the
Capitol.
Sbakefp. CorialaMMS,
He is a giitr, aifd our prefent bufwefs
Is oi more I'erious confequcnce.
Henfinfaet.

Aiiijm or, haly

Gi'bikgly. aei'v. [from gibe,] Scornfully;

berance.

Were this fubjeifl to the cedar, (he would be able
to make head agairift that \iM%<t giant eft,

Gl'BBOUS. adj.
I .

Decay of Piety,
come giantly difficulties.
Notn ithllanding all their talk of reafon and phi-

Convex ; pxatubefant ; fwelling into inequalities.

Ckvi gibbtus from behind the mountain's back.
Dryiien

empty (hellj, wtars thent away, reducing thofe that
IVoaJvard,

arc concave and gibbous to a fiat.

'

•z.

Crookbacked.
I

Gi'bbovsness. »,/ \iiora gibboui,'\ Con-

For who that'5 but a queen, fair, fober, wife,
Would from a paddock, from a but, a gibbe,
Such dear concernings hide ? Shakejfeare^ s Hamlet,

To make the convexity of the earth difcccnible,

vexity ; prominence.

fpeak inarticulately.

The flieeted dead
Did fqueak antigMer in the Roman fticets. Stair/.

Gi'bbe RISH.

[Derived by Siiv/ier
from gti/er, French, to cheat; by others
conjeftured to be formed by corruption
from jahbtr. Bat as it was anciently
written geirijh, it is probably derived
from the chymical cant, and originally
implied the jargon of Gci^er and his tribe.]
Cant ; the private language of rogues and
gipfcys ; words without meaning.

GiBCAT. ji./. \^gib andca/.] An old wornout cat.

n. /.

1

n.

Which ihallow laughing hearers give to fools.

reading this gibberijh, that which the men had wrote
founded like Migh Dutcbi and the other by the wo.

The parts that fortune hath beflow'd upon her,
Tell her, 1 hold as giddily as fortune.
Sbatef,

Gi'ddiness. ». /. [from _f/V</y.]
I. The ftate of being giddy or vertiginous ;
the fenfation svhich we have when every
thing fepms to turn round.
Megrims and giddinefs are rather when we rife
after long fitting, than while we fit.
Baccn.
This blelTed ihiflle, which is fo (bvereign a me-

To be fcuirilous and rude.
When you pertly raife your fnout,

S-u^i,

-v.

e:.

To

Sviji.

reproach by con-

to feoff; to
temptuous hints ; to flout
ridicule ; to treat with fcorn ; to fnccr
;

cxpofed.

When was there ever curfed aiheill brought

to taunt.

Unto the gibbet, but he did adoie
Tbatbleflcd pow'r which he had fctat nought?

When rioting in Alexandria, you
Did pocket up my letters, and vitb taunts

Daviet.

You fcandal to the (lock of verfe, a /^ce
CleavclanJ,
i

'tis

this

Holyday,

will fettle it.

Vain fliow and noife intoxicate the brain,
Tiung.

Begin with giddimfs, and end in pain.

Inconftancy
unfteadinefs ;
chan; eablenefs.

z,

;

mutability ;

There be that delight in giJdineft, and count it
Bacon.
a bond.tge to fix a belief.

Quick

3.

rotation ;

keep its

inability to

place.

The indignation of Heaven rolling and turning
upon government, that it fell into the very dregs of fedbaries.
Soulb.
us, 'till at length fuch a giddincfs feizcd

Fleir and gibe, and laugh and flout.

To Gibe

dicine againil the ^/V*///rr/i of the brain;

SJb^k,

I'hus witli talents well endu'd

Dtnnt.

Carelefly; heedlefly ; negligently.

3.

old ^French, to
To fneer ; to join

enemies, left they fliould afterwards laugh and gibe
llooker.
at our party.
When he law her toy, and gibe, and geer.
And pals the bounds of modcft merry make.
Her dalliance he defpis'd.
Spenfer.
Why that's the way to choke i gibing fpirit,
Whofe influence is begot of that loofe grace

unfteadily.

Giddily, and be every where but at home.
Such freedom doth a banilhment become.

[p-fl/'fr,

fneer, to ridicule.]

Sfenfer.

Able to bring the gibbet in difgrace.

T,'.

;

To roam

cenforioufncfs with contempt.
They fccm to imagine that we have ere>3ed of
late a frame of fome new religion, the furniture
whereof we (liould not have borrowed Iroin our

Some of both fexes writing down a number ot
letters, jud as it came into their heads ;
upon

Gi'bbet. »./. [giiet, French.]
I. A gallows ; the poft on which malefaftors
are hanged, or on which their carcafes are

Gi'ddilv. ^i/f. [from^iV^^'.]
1. With the head feeming to turn round.

Shttkejpcaie.

if

men like Italian

am as melancholy as a gibcat, or a lueg'd bear.

To GIBE.

they happen to hear an old word,
albeit wry natural and ftgnificani, cry out rtraightway, that we fpcak no EngliOi, but gibberijh.
I.

A weapon ufed formerly to fight beaft*
upon the ftage.
Diif.

2.

2. Inccnflantly

fuppofc a man lifted in «he air, that he may have
a fpacious horizon,; but then, becaufe of the Jiftancc, the convexity and gibbiufaefs would vanidi
away, and he would only fee a great circul.ir flat.
Bentlty't Sermons.

To

A

long ftaff to gage water, or to fliov*
forth a veflel into the deep.

1

Gi'bbe. u. f. Any did worn-out animal.
Hanmer.

[from _/Vjiiifr,3

Gi'bstaFF. k, /.

demand how the camels of Baflria came to

have two bunches on their back, whereas the camels
of Arabia have but one ? How oxen, in lomc,
countries, began and continue gibbous, or hauncliBroivn.
backed ?

Stalking with lefs unconfci^nable l^rides.
And lower looks.
Miiton's Agonifiet,

».

That he may loll at eafe ; and pamper'd high.
When I am laid, may feed on ^'^/r/ pie,
Dryjen.

The fea, by this accefs apd recefs, (huffling the

His giatiijhip is gone fomewhat creft fallen,

i;.

'Tisholydayi provide me better cheer
•Tis holyday ; anJ (hall be round the year
Shall! my houfliold gods and genius cheat.
To make him rich who grudges me my meat ?

A pointed flinty rock, all bare and black,
I

Sbahjp,

fore It is roaltcd.

ti^ijeman.

or charadler of 8 giant.

To Gi'bbe R.

After til' inveterate hate he bears to you.

Gi'blets. ti. /. [According to Minfht-yj
itom gobbel , gobblet : according to "Jteiihis
more properly from sibier, game, Fr.]
The parts of a goofe which are cut off be-

The bones will rife, and make a giiboui member.

lofophy, which they arc deplorably ftr.\rigcrs to, and
thofc unanfwerable doubts and difficulties, which,

Gi'antship. ti.f, [itom giant.l Quality

[gibbus, Latin ; gibieu.v.

French.]

Single courage has often, without romance, over-

over their cups, they pretend to have againft
Chriftianity; petfuade but the covetous man not to
deify his money, the proud man not to adore himfelf, and I dare undertake that all their giantlike
objc^ious agalnS the Chrill-an religion fliall prclently vaiiirti and (juit the lielil.
Scutb.

.^*y.

terjacent water ?

Hovfl.

Gi'antlike. 1 o{/. [from giant and /I'/r.]
Gi'antly. J
Gigantick; vaft; bulky.

His prefent portance,
Gibiitgly and ungravcly lie did fafhion

one of another, what fliould take away the fight of
Aiips from c-ich btller, but the giibojiy of the in-

SbaMefpfurt.

Peiion.

contemptuoudy.

When fhips, failing contraiy ways, lofe the fight

had rathn be a gUmifi, and lie under mount

Some,

SVL'Ifl.

Gi'eeR.»./. [from^;^.]

Game ; wild

GiBBo'siTV. »./. [gihbo/tte, Fr. from _f;ihom.'\
Convexity; prominence; protu-

Uic-

woman of unnatural bulk and

Xprffalor,

But the dean, if thisfecret Ihould come to his ears,
Will never have done with his gibes and his jeeri.

all

tax-free".

height.
I

moment.

QlJbam.

butcher's meat,
while, at llie far^c time, the fowl and gibiier arc

(iieat Polyphemc of more thaii mortal might. Tcpe,
}i.

i

To iiaijg on any thing going travcrfe:

Thcfe inpoib are

Dry Jen.

If they would hate from the botijom of their heart?,
their averfion would be too ftrong for little gitrt every,

'

,.

Gl'BBIRR. n. J. [French.]
fowL

Aiilicb the chief t'avcngc his gi-i»t Ton,

a

And will be monttrous witty on the poor.

as the beam of a gibbet.
He (hall come oft' anJ on fwifter than he that
Sbakefp. Henry IV.
gibieti on the brewer's bucket.

Aiiifon.

Sbalttfpeart,

The rich have Itill a gibe in llore.

Any triwrte bcaitis.
\"iig:iie! u;iV,\iaia,c.

Neptune, by pray'r repentant, rarely WQd,

eiant

'

J. 'lo hjng'or eipoffi oil. a gibbet.

remembered by Mofes of
RaUigb*t Hijiory.
his own time.
The j:ja/ brothers, in their camp, have found
I was not forc'd with eafc to quit my givund. DryJ,
By weary (Vep$ and flow
The groping gUm with a trunk of pine

Gj'ant;£ss.

Marie the fleers, \.\\t gibes, and notable fcorni

That dwell in ev'ry region ot his face.

'

To Gi'bbet. %: «. [fro'cn the noun.]

ftrcngth of thoft giaitlt

Explor'd his way.

;

or exprcffion of fcorn ; taunt.

.

nature, anu

lar exceeded the proportion,

D

GiBF. «./. [from the verb.] Sneer; fcint
of contempt by word or look feoff; att

'

Cquld not drop forth fuch gi.iit rude invention
Such Ethiop words.
Shjhf^, Aiysuiijccit.
Furcc faces ihreat'ning wars,
^I'jfrrs of mighty bone, and boid emprife!
Milton.
Th(rfe rianrtf thoic mighty men, and men oi

I

Sbakejpeare,
Did gibe my mitfive out of audience.
Draw the beafts as I dcfcribe ihem,
Sviift.
From their features, while I gibe them.

4.

Frolick ; wantonr.efs of life.
Thou, like a contrite penitent.
Charitably warn'd of thy fin."!, do'ft repent
Thefe vanities ar>d giddinejfes.

Gl'DDY. trii;, r;s'^'5> Saxon.

I

Donne.

know not

whether this word may not come from
gad, to wander, to be in motion, gai/,
gid, giddy.]
I Very

G I f
1.

« I G

Vertiginous; haring in the lieaJ, a whirl,
or fenfation of circular motion ; fuch as
happens by difeafe or drunicennefs.

Ctnle and myrrli.

By gidiiy ht-ads and ftagg'ring !cjs betray 'd.
7a It.
%, Rotatory; whirji.-g; running round with

Pope.

unfteady; change-

Thanks togtJJy chance, which never bears,
That mortal blifs Ihould laft for length of years.

Witli nolle fay nothing, and in parts divide. DryJen.

You are as giddy and volatile as .?vcr, the reverfe
•t Pope, who hath aUvays loved a domefticic life.

The fre<]uent errors of a palhltfs wood.
The giddy precipice, and the dang'rous flood.

Given

1.

;

bellowed.

To grind in brazen fetters, under talk.
2.

Endowed with extraordinary powers.
commonly ufed ironically.

the people to dilpolethem to an

Siaie/p.

j^

2.

With an exu-eme fea, quite about agsine.
Our whole endeavours ; and our courfc conftraln

md

Chafman.
train.]

Carelefs; thoughtlefs.
5"" "ineceffaty, ufelefs,
Ii"? •*""] 7'} '•*'"'Ot-maj',
g.ddyiramd^b!

GiDpy HEADED,

r,mctpr,firv,d.

QiJJy and hmd.]
Without thought or cauuonj without
adj.

Iteadmefs orconllancy.

And fooner may a gulling weather fpv.
By drawing forth heav'.ns fcheme defcry
What fafhion'd hau or rtiffs, or fuits, oeit
year.
Out giddy.beadtd antick youth will wear.
Donne
That men are fo mifaffeiftcd, melancholy,
jf/V/^vtC'jded, hear the teftimony of

Giddy PACED,

Solomon.

Su,,of,

adj
yddy and fcfA
Moving without regularity.
More than light airs, and recollefled
term.,
of thefe mod brilk and giddypacd
times.
Shakeff

kin/""'^

,/./.
'

[fomctimes it is writ-

^" "^'' °^ * particular

Thefe fowl. Ihall not be eaten,

thefwanind the

Of FT. »./. \\xo\n giwe.^
I.

A thing given or ^flowed;
contcrred without price.
Vot. I.

fcmething

A fiddle.

[%r:fl,inandick.]

i

able to a giant j big; bulky;
hkcwife wicked ; atrocious.

fire :

brood,
fons,

Odyjfey.

„. {gkhela,, Dutch.]

To

to grin with merry

It IS retained in Scotland.

grace, harrick',

;

fooliffhly merry.

is the

brave complexion.
That leads the van, and fwallows
up the cities
Ihtgfggirr IS a milk-maid,
whom i^.leflion,
Ur tiie hr'd beacon, fiishlcih from his
ditties.

Gi CLET. »./. [jeajl, Saxon; geyl. Dutch
gtl/e/, Scottilh, is rtiil

ton j a laftivious girl.

retained.]

to two (hillings.
I

Phil,

am bound

To Perfia, and want gilders for my voyage. Shakfp.
Gilding. «./. [from^/Zr.] Gold lain o»
any furface by way of ornament.
Silvering will fully and canker more tbm
gilding,
which, if It might hecorrefted with a httle
mixtura
ofgold, there 18 profit.
Baron.
1 lie church of the Annunciation, all but one corner of it, is covered with ttatues, gilding^, and
painu

Addftitt on Italy.

And I not drip the gilding off a knave,

Ep.
Gi cci.ER. «. /. [from giggU.] A laugher

A fad wife valour

Broome.

A coin, from one Ihilling and fix pence,

Could laureate Prydcn Pimp and Fry'r engage.

We ihcwour prefcnt ^Mx^g^ggling race;

a titterer; one idly and

Baeon^

We have here a gilder with his anvil and ham.

Milton', Ag,n.
fcems.
By his broad (Iwulders and giganiici
limbs.
Dryd
1 he Cyclopean race in arms
arofe
A lawlcfs nation of gigantirk foes. ;Pept'i

True joy confift, .n gravity and

Gilders ufe to have a piece of gold
in their mouth,
Jo draw the fplrits cf the quitkfilver.

2.

ITic fon of I lercules he juftly

levity.

\iiom gild.']

One who lays gold on the furface of an*'

"""•

Alloigiganiici fize, Coliah chief.

;

with youth, to catch the fight. Dr^d,

n. f.

other body.

enormous,

Though fame divulged him fatlier of fife

augh idly; to titter

.

Suit-

On each hand Daughter and £,^a«//V/ deeds. Milton.

n GIpGLE. ^.

Gi'lder.

^

Others from the wall defend

dread him not, tiorall his giant

'*''

1

I

With dart and jav'lin, ftoncs, and fulphurout
I

'"'P*'''*'^^ P'«= mniti more delight c
.T xsgildedo'tt
'/y''J

Nowou't

of ufe.
Giga'ntjcic, adj. [glgantt!, Latin.]

adventitious orna.

For my part, f a lie may do thee grace,
VWglld it with the happieft terms 1 have. Shakefp.

Any thing that is whirled round in play.
Playthings, as tops, gig,,
battledores, (ho'ld be
procured them.

Obfolete.

A fodaine North-wind fefcht.

GiEH-BACLE.

1.

To

To recommend by
ments.

Gio. n.f. [Etymology nncertain.J

the noun.]

[fiWJ^

5.

female oratory.
Addifon'i Freeholder.

IIcjring»(ip!.iufe and univcrfal Ihout,

adj.

this parti-

cular, ought to ftudy the rules of

Nor ev'niug Cynthia rill her lilvcr horn.
Pofe's Mef,
To brighten; to illuminate.

The lightfonie paffion of jov was not that trivial,
vanilhing, luperficial thing, that on\y
gildt the ap.
prchenlion, and plays upon the furface of
the foul.

Z)rr./

command: women,
who are fo liberally gfted by naturc-in

centending in a priie.

That thinks he hath done well in people's eyes

GiDDVBRAiNED.

infurreition.

4.

1 here is no talent fo pernicious as
eloquence, to
thofe who have it not under

Shakefftart.

To ^/rf^,V round.

It

Hacket and
Copfinger, go« up into a peafe-ca,t, and
haiangued

haft Ihifted out of thy tale into telling me of the
fa-

turn quick.

Thou did'ft drink
The ftalc of horfcs and the gilded puddle.
Which beads would cough at, Siai. Ant and Cleoj/^
3. To adorn with lullre.
No more the riling fun Ihall gildlhc morn.
.

Agfnijies

Two of their gifted brotherhood,

Art thou not giddy with the falhion too, that thou

looking with a juftdifdain

Whofe chief fupport and finews are of coin,
ffaller.
Her joy in gilded chariots when alive
And love of ombre after death furvive. ;
Pope.
2. To colour with any yellow
matter.

is

overromebyanyoverpoweringinticement.

Rofcommen,

And kncwini; well that empire muft decline,

jjj:r

Made of my enemies the fcom and gaie.

elated to ihoughtleffnefs

foGi'DDY. i>. tt. [from

Jfu
When°"n
Britain,

Milton,

S'^'^^'' fn»":.

Upon lh\s gilded majcfty of Spain,

I'rTED. adj. [from^i//.]

With my heav'n gifted rtrength. Mitt„n',

Upon the giddy footing of the hatcha,
Methought that Glo'fter ftumblcd.
Shakefftart.

^''"''°'" '" ^

of ejertine

6. Tottering; unfixed.
As we pac'd along

Giddy in Ipirit, gazing llill in doubt.
Whither thofe peals of praife be his or no.

In the fteep Atlantick dream.

Milt,„
He who has ihe gift of ridicule, finds fault
with
any thmg that gives him an opportunity
his talest.

Shakefpeare.

His glowing a.xle doth allay

Unleemly to bear rule.

Rirwi.

gpenfer.

1 o gild refined gold, to paint the lilly.

To throw a perfume on the violet.
Anilht gilded at oiiij

Were fuch as made for government well feem'd

Clarijfa.

""f;
Like one of, two

Many great golden pillars did uprear

Thy love, not thy fubjeflion, and hcrgifit

Prlcr.

la the lime hour, leap from a parent's window to a

7. Intoxicated;

to cover with
;
foliated gold.
The room was large and wide.
As it fome gilt or folemn temple wen::

She was lovely to altrad

How ineicufeable are thofe giJdy creatures, who,

fculband's bed.

.To wafh over with gold

The maffy roof.

Power; faculty.
And if the boy have not a woman's gift.
To tain a fliower •f commanded tears.
An onion will do well for fuch a fliift. Sbake/feare.

% Hcedlefs; thoughtlefs; uncautious; wild.
_

1

6.

Thefylphs through mjitick mazes guide their way,
Through all the giddy circle they purfue.
Popt.

Too many giddy loolilh hours are gone.
And in fantartick mcafures danc'J away.

Saxon.]
1

thou (halt not
refpea perfons, neither take a gift ; for a gift dolh
blind the eyes of the wife.
Deut. ivi. 19.

That which caufes giddinefs.

4.

in gJgot,

GILD^. a. pret. gildid, or gilt, [iilban,

Sr«

Thou (halt not wreft judgment,

Sxiifi lo Cay.

.

The inwards flit.
They broil 'd on coale?, andeate; the reft,

4. Oblation; offering.
Many nations fhall comewiih^//cj in their hands,
even gift) to the king of heaven.
Toi. xiii, 1
bribe.
5.

And here in hope of thy return we wait.
Drydtn.
The giJJy vulgar, a their fancies guide,

Sbak.

and with the other

the {pit.

Mi/ton.
No man has any antecedent right or claim to that
which comes to him by free gift.
Souib.

A

She cart us headlong from our high cllate.

too,

^ /"A^??^'""
GI'GOr.
„.f. [French.] The hip joint.
It leems to mean in Chapman
a joit« for

For had the gift been theiis, it had not here

a fmall birds likcwife

to raafter Catfar's fword.

""?»"»"• y^"*/?- Meafuref^r Meaf.

Thus grown.

Than womcns' arc. Hhakijptare'i T'welflb Nighl.
It may be gnats and flies have their imagination

!

Aw'ay wiih thofe f(j/>/j-

Tliey cannot give

Our £uicie> are mangiJJy and unfinn.
More longing, wavering, foonerloft and won,

Siahfp.

Ihefam'd CafTibelaii was once atpoinf,

Oh giglet fortune

1 he right or power of bellowing.

3.

ful.

more mutable anigiJJj,

To be the pillage of a giglet wench.

Ofall thy»/7/j, nor envyeft.
Milton.
Thee afl things living gaieon, all things thine
By «'/'-.
Milion.

As Ixion fis'd, the wrelch Dull feel

Thcg/Wy motion of the whirling mill.

Mat. ii. 1 r.

Creator bounteous, and benign.
Giver of all things good, but faireft this

celerity.

3. Inconltant; mutable;

Toung Talbot was not born

Recall your ^j/?, for I your pow'rconfefs;
But firll take back my life, ig^jt that's lefs. Dryd.
2. The aft of giving.

Them rev'ling ihus the Tcntyriles invade.

-

Ga I.

They preftntcd unto him gifts, gold, «nd fnnVin-

Unplac'd unpenCouM, no man's heir or Have
f
Pope,

GiLr. 71. f. {agulla, Spanifh; gula, Latin.]
I. The apertures at each
fideof a fifli'shead.
The leviathan,
Stretch'd like a promontory,

fiecpsor fwims.

And lecmia moving land, and at his ^///r

Drawj in, and at his trunk fpouH out a fea. Milion.
;

I'llhes perform refpiralion

under water by lYttgill,,

A wan-

Nowoutofufc.

''•^hathtwoW.y-fins; not behind Uie W/A, as''«

mod fidies, but before tliem.
J

<^

IKillon
'T.li

G I M

Gi'mlet. n.f. [gihelet, guimleleff'Ftench.]
M:,XOll.

B^con'i Natural Hiftory.

Gi'mmal. ». /. [Suppofed by 5'towr and

The flelh under the chin.

Ainfiuorth to be derived from gimellus,
Latin, and to be ufcd only of fomething
coVififting of correfpondcnt parts, or dou-

In many there is r.o palcnefs at all; but, contrariby

wife, rednefs about the cheeks and gUls, which is
revenge.
the fending forth of fpirits in an appetite to
Bacon's Natural HiJIory.
Like the long bag of flelh hanging down from the
Stvlft
of the people in Piedmont.

lUlt
4. [Gilla, barbarous Latin.]

It feems rather to be gradually corrupted from geometry or geoiniflrical. Any
thing done by occult means is vulgarly faid
to be done by geometry.] Some little
quaint devices or pieces of machinery.

of a

pint.
Every bottle muft be rinced with wine : fome, out
fame :
of milUken thrift, will rince a dozen with the
change the wine at every fecond bottle: z gilt imy

A kind of meafure among the tinners.

5.

They meafure their block-tin by the gili, which

Gi'mmer.
ment

Gimp, n, /•

I

Each Jack with his Gill.
The
8. \Chelidonium.'\

Ben JonfinU Gyffiri.

name of a plant;

G N « /.
A trap
I

Malt liquor medicated with ground-ivy.
Gi'llhol'se. n. f. [gi/l and bou/e.] A
houfe where a gill is fold.
And

«./. [^»7/ and^f<z</.]

He blended together the livers o( glliheatis, the
brains of phcafants and peacocks, tongues of pheniHakeviill.
copters. and the melts of lampres.

A worm

fo called from his yellow tail.

Gim. «^'. [An old word.]

Shakefp.
Sbaktjp.

who liavc butlenfe, can(hun

No more oil me have pow'r, their foiceis nuU'd.
Milton.

He made a planetary g/».
Which rats would run their own heads in.
And come on purpofc to be taken.

Neat; fpruce ;

well (Irefled.

Gi'mcrack. »./, [Suppofed by Slimier to
be ludicroufly formed from gin, derived
flight or trivial mechafrom engine.]
nifm.

A

For though thcfe ^imcracks were away,
However, more reduc'd and plain.
The watch would lliU a watch rcnuiin
But if the horal orbit ceafes,
Piior.
The whole (lands (till, or breaks to pieces.
What's the meaning «f all tiKl'e uanfr.tint and

From the crack'd bag the dropping guinea fpoke.
And gingling down the backllairs, told the crew.
2.

Old Cato is as great a rogue as )0U. Pope's Epijiles.
To make an affeded found in periods or

cadence.

To Gi'.NGLE.

engine of torture,
Typh;eus' joints were ftretched on a gin. Spencer.

A pump worked by rotatory fails.
The dells would be fo flown witli waters, it being

iropolVible to mak« any adits or loughs to drain them,

would fufhce

or machines

to lay

keep ihcm diy.

and
R.iy.

A bituminous plate, alternately yellow and black,
formed by water drivelling on the outfide of the gin,
If'ooit'u-arJ on b'ujjils.
pump of Moftyn coalpits.
4.

[Contrafted from Geneva, which fee.]
'\ he fpirit drawn by diilillation from juniper berries.
This calls the church to deprecate our fin.

Pope.
And hurls the thunJurofourlaws on gin.
And anfw'nug^iXhops fourer fighs return. Pf.pe.
Gl'NGER. », /, l^xJamiSerf hitia ; ghigero,
Italian.]

The flower confifts of five leaves, (baped fomewhat like thofe of the Iris thele are produced in ihe
head or club, each coming out of a fcparate leafy
The ovary becomes a triangular truit, having
[calc.
Miller.
ihice cells which contain feeds.
ThtTootoi ginger isofthe tuberous kind, knotty,
;

crooked, and irregular; of a hot, acrid, and pungent
lalle, though aiomaiick, and of a very agreeable
fmell.
The Indians eat both the youiij (lioois ol
the leaves and the tgots Uiemfclvei.

'v.a.

To (hake, fo that »

The bells (he gingled, and the whilflc blew. Pope,
Gi'.NGLE. n.J. [from the verb.]
1. A fhrill rcfbunding noife.
2. Affcftation in the found of periods.

Gi'nglvmoid.

adj. ['/'.yAi///.^, a hinge,
Refembli.Mg a ginglyinus ;
approaching to a ginglyinus.
I he Malleus lies along, bxed
to the tympanum,

and «i<r^.]

Without th' expcnce ofchccl'e and bacon. Hudibras.
Keep from Haying fcouige thy (kin.
IJudiliras.
And ancle ftee from iron gin.
2. Any thing moved with fcrews, as an

tliat no gins

to

Her infant grandame's whittle next it grew;

Ben yon/bn's Forejl,

1 know thy trains.
Thou dearly to my coil, thy gins and toils

3.

;

iliarp Ihrlll clattering noife fliould beraade.

Little tor me had real'on done.

Dia.

Gilt-tail. n. f. [^»7/ and /rt//.]

Apenfer,

B^ico/i.

I'ow obfolete.
Ourgaynefs and our gilt are all bcfmirch'd.
With ramy marching in ihe painful tield. Sbakrfp,
When thou wall in thy gilt, and thy perfume,
they mockt ihee for too much curiofuy : in thy
rags thou koow'll none, but art defpifed for the
Sbaktfp. Timon of Athens,
contrary.
Gilt. The participle of Gild, which fee.
Where the g;V/ chariot never mark 'd its way. Pope.

A bird.

a fnare.

If I could not thy gins avoid.

Fair is the giUyfloiit'r of gardens fvveet,
Fairisthemarygold, for pottaj,e meet. Gay's ?ajl.

2,

;

To utter a (harp clattering noife

utter a (harp noife in quick fucceffion.
The foot grows black that was with dirtembrown'd.
Cay.
And in thy pocket gingling halfpence fjund.
Once, we confels, beneath the patriot's cloak.

The engines that have them annoy 'd ?

Ciltyjlowrsot rather Julyfourri, fo called from
the month they blow in, may be reduced to thele
forts ; red and white, purple and white, fc.irlct and
Mortimer's Hujhandry
white.

A feafifti.

.

If tliofe,

[Either corrupted
from Julyflmxxr, or iromginjlee, French.]

1.

1.

Be it by gins, by fnares, by (ubtiliy.

Pepe.

Gilt. ». /. [from gild.'\ Golden (how;
fold laid on the furface of any matter.

To Gi'ngle. 1>. ».

[from engine, ]

So ftrives the woodcock with the gin\
So doth the coney (Iruggle in the net.

thee each gillbouft

In July comt giltyjlevitrs of all varieties.

D

1

Hath (lain (ir Mordant.

Gi'llyflower. n. f.

Gi'lthead.

G m. Gimp, in old EngA kind of (ilk

fpruce.]

Be-

Whillt the Italians llrive to cut a thread in their
pronunciation between
and T, fo to (weeten it,
they make the occlufe appulfe, efpecially the gin.
giial, fofler than we do, giving a little of penioufnefs.
Holder's Elements of Speech,

Which two, through trcafon and deceitful gi".

mourn.
anfw'ring ginfliops fourer fighs return.

Dia.
Gi'.NClVAi. adj. [gingiva Latin.]
longing to the gums.

As the day begins.
With twenty gins we » ill the fmall birds take.
Sidney.
And paftime make.

9.

alehoufe,

.

1

Shakefpeare.

tendcrnefs.

Gimmal.] Move-

tvvift or lace.

ground-ivy.

Thee (hall each

[See

neat,

is

Cautioufly ; nicely.

Gi'KG^RNEts. »./. Nicenefs;

have been prone to conclude
with mylclt, that the gimmtrs of tlie world hold
together not fo much by geometry as fome natural
Moore' s Di-vine Dialogues.
nijgick.

lilh,

can, for 1 will.
Here a« Burley o' th' Hill,
Give you all your fill,

«. /. [iec
machinery.

SvjiJ't.

Took up fo gingerly ?

Sbukejp.

fo confounded me, that 1

[From gilliau, the old Englilh way of
writing Julian, or Juliana.^ I'he appellation ot a woman in ludicrous language.

rived.]

Hill to ftrikf on,

The holding together of I'lie parts of matter has

of liquid meafure.
7.

;

in the

What is't that you

Elfe they could not hold out fo as they do.

Carnv.
containeth a pint.
6. In the northern counties it is half a pint

had but one penny

upon the Thames

think by fome odd gimirah or device

Their arms are let like clocks.

.

1

Gi'ngerly. adv. [I know not whence de-

Hanmcr.
1

•St^'y-

be enough.

world, thou
Sbakrfpeare
Her currants there and goofebcriies were Ipread,
With the inticinggoldof^idjerirMi/. King'tCook.
'Tis a lofs you are not here, to partake of three
weeks (rolf, and a' gingerltread iti* booth by a fire

An'

(Uoiild'H have it to buy gingerirraJ.

ble.

A meafurc of

liquids, containing the tourth part

[ginger -.Miili bread. '\

A kind of farinBceous fwectmeat made
of dough, like that of bread or bifcuit,
fwcatcned with treacle, and flavoured with
ginger and fome other aroraatick feeds.
It is fometimes gilt.

The gimlet hath a worm at the end of its bit.

The turkeycock hath sreat and fwtllingj///', and

Pope.

And vifit alehoufe where ye firtt did grow.

Gi'ncerbREaD. //. /.

A borer with a fcrew at its point.

fowl.
the hen hath let.

Or wafting ghger round the (Ireett to go,

gimcrttks t Tunping over my mafter'j hedp!, and
jfrbMthtt^t
ranning your lines ciols his grounds ?

•Till they of firther paffage quJie bereft,

Kim.
Were in the me(h with gills enungl'd left.
a
a. The flaps that han^; below the beak of

3.

G I P

G I N

Hill.

and on the other end is joined to the incus by a doullaldtr.
ble ox ginglymoid joint.

Gi'nclymus.

n. /.

A iputual indenting

of two bones into each other's cavity, in
the manner of a hinge, of which the elWijeman.
bow is an inftance.
Gi'nnet. », /. [vi>»®".] A nag; a mule;
a degener.ited breed.
Hence, according to fome, but, I believe, erroneoufly,
a Spanilh gcnuet, improperly written for
ginnet.

Gi'nshng, n.f,

A

[1 fuppofc C/'/Vff/f.]
root brought lately into Europe, of a
brownifh colour on the outfide, and fomewhat yellowifh within ; and fo pure and

feems aliuoft tranfparent. It
of a very agreeable and aromatick fmell,
though not very (Irong. Its tafte is acrid
and aromatick, and has fomewhat bitter
We have it from China and Amein it.
rica.
Ihe Chinefc value this root at
tliree times its weight in filver.
/////.
To Gir. -v, a. To take out the guts of
fine, that it

is

herrings.

Bailtj,

GI'i'SY. n.f. [Corrupted from Ej'^y////?//;
for when they firft appeared in Europe,
they declared, and perhaps, truly, that
they

t

To break a fcornful

ttiey were driven from Eg)'pt by the Turks.

from glide or

1 hey are now mingled with all nations.]

to gibe ; to fneer.
'("his wondred error growth
At which our Clilicks gird.

turity,

Men

of

all

forts

take a

Tiie builer, thov*.. he

is

furs

to

bfe a knife a

A franiick g''/>/v now, the houfe he haunts.
And in wild phtaiis fpeaks dillcmWed wants. Prhr.
In this ftill labyrinth around her lie
Spelli, philters, globes, and fpheres of palmellry ;

is

:

Shake//). Henry XW.

other men.

Gird. «./. [from the verb.] A twitch
a pang: it may come from the fenfution

;

caufed by a bandage or girdle dr.nwn hard
fuddcnly. This word is now feldom ufcd,
unlefs the former etymology be admitted.

Garth.

In ih' other a prophetick lieve and (hears.
near yon liile, three fallow giffitt met

Sweet king the bilhop h.ith a kindly gird
For (hame, my lord of Winchefter, relent. Sbaliefp.
Confeience by this means is freed from many
fearful girdi and twinges which the .\thei(l feels.
!

Upon my hand thty cart a poring look.
Bid me beware, and thrice their heads they (hook.

Gay,

A reproachful name for a dark com-

2,

He

has the glory of his confeience, when he
doth well, to let againft the checks and girds of it
Goodman.
when he doth amifs.

Gi'rder.w./. \{tom gird.'] Inarchitefture,

A

Gi'rasole.

[^/r<j^o/,

and the joills are
framed in at onearm to the girders. Harris.
The girders are alfo to be of the fame fcanlling

Prhr.

French.]

V.

pret. girded,

a.

They fprinkled earth upon their heads, and girded
2 Mac, x. 3.
their loins with fackcloth.
2. To put on fo as to furround or bind.

GI'RDLE. «. /. [jypbe, Saxon.]
1. Any thing drawn round the waift, and
tied or buckled.
There will I make thee beds of rofesi

1

Many conceive there
ihey puton \\it\x girdle.

The combatant too late the field declines,
When now tlie fword is girded to his leins.
4.

Stoop then, and fet your knee againft my foot

1.

To drefs

;

thee with (ilk.

2.

That girjlrft in ihofe wolves

;

To inclofe

2.

;

GiRE. n.f.

The

A circular bandage.

2.

The moft common way of bandage is by that of
the girt, which girt hath a bolfter in the middle,
and the ends arc tacked firmly together, f^'i/eman.

Girth.

»./. [from gird.]

A band by which the faddle is fixed
upon the horfe.
Or the faddle turn'd round, or the girtis brake ;
For low on the ground, woe for his fake.
Ben Jnnfon's Underwoods*
The law is found.
Nor Pegafiis could bear the load,
Along the high celeftial road ;
T he Heed opprefs'd, would break his girth.
Svr/i.
To raife the lumber from the earth.
Mordanto gallops on alone ;
The roads are with his foll'wers ftrown;
This breaks a girth, and that a bone.
Sts.<ift.

The compafs meafured by

2.

He's a

lufty

the girdle,

A maker

jolly fellow that lives well, at leaft

three yards in the girth.

Gm

I'.a.

Addifon's Freeholder,

To bind with a girth.

Crotind, nj. a. Is when the owner
To
of it does not feed it with his own
Hock, but takes in other cattle to graze.

Bgilej,
[gyrus, Latin.]

A circle de-

nifiesa pledge : thus, Fredgijle is a pledge

of peace ;

Shake/iJ.

?» Gird. t. n. fOf thi« word in this fenfe

may be
1

Gijlebert

an illuftrious pledge,

like the Greek Homervs.

Gib/.

Camden.

GiTH. n./. [r/igilla.] An herb called Guinea pepper.

To GIVE.

Italian, a weathercock; Junius thinks that

comes from herlodes, Wclfli, from
which, fays he, harlot is very eafily de-

Among the Englifh Saxons, fig-

Gi'sLE.

Meric Ca-

:

it

formed by a very cuAomary tranfpoliiion

Girt. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. A band by which the faddle or burthen

;

to gibe.

it

;

In the dread ocean, undulating wide
Beneath the radiant line that girts the globe. Thorn/.

To Girth.

janbon, as is his cuftom, derives it from
jfi^n of the fame ligniiication
Min/henjj
I'lom garrii/a, Latin, a prattler, oxgirella,

Being mov'd, he will not fpart Xoglrd the god.

the original ;

Dia.

Girt. part. pajf. [from To gird.]
To Girt. -v. a. [from gird.] To gird ; to
Not proper.
to encircle.
encompafs

Hhakefp, Timon.

word there is much queftion

to incircle.

Mi/ton.

know not

A kind of

n.f.[acits major.]

fifli.

fcribedby any thing in motion. SeeGv r e
GIRL. ft./. [About the etymolog}- of this

Milfn.

Cirt with the river Triion, where old Cham

1

perfon.

of girdles.

to etjuip.

;

!

Gi'rdler. n.f, [from ^/Wi<f.]

vain co\ering, if to hide

Hid Amalthea, and her Horid fon
Young Bacchus, from his (Irpdame RLea'seye.

To reproach

vifli

Gi'rrock.

or cnclofing bandage.

Nor did his eyes lei's longingly behold

That Nyfcian ifie,

9.

Shakefp.

The girdleielt, witli nails ol burnilh'd gold. Dryd.

So to the coad of Jordan he dire^s
His eafy (leps, girded with fnaky wilet.

feems to be a corruption
Scotland, and
is applied to a crabbed, captious, orpceIt

It is iUn ufed in

oi grill.

O thou wall,

belt that incircles the waift.

Tlieir guilt, and dreaded Ihame ! Milton's Par. Loft.

To furnifh

Within their innocent alaballer arms.
Shairfp.
To inclofe ; to fliut in ; to environ.
Thofe lleeplng (tones,

Gi'rdlebelt. n./. [girdle and beli.~\

Thefe, with what (kill they had, together fow'd.

7.

to bind as with a girdle.

Let me look bacic upon thee,

To cover round as a garment.
:

;

That as a waift do girdle you about.

and I covered
Extk, xvi. 10.

Tyfiphone there keeps the ward,
Cirt in her fanguine gown, by night and day,
Obfervant of the fouls that pafs the downward way.
Dryden.

To gird their wailt

To gird

J.ay the gentle babes, girdling one another

to habit ; to clothe.

I girded tbee about with fine linen,

6.

The zodiack.
Great brecies in great circles, fuch as a« under
the girdle o{ the world, do refrigerate.
Bacon.

I gird thee with the valiant Iword of York. Sbaieff.

manner.

ifli

To GiRN. "J. ft.

Suppofe within the girdle of thefe walls

And in reguerdon of that dut^ done,

5.

Carev.:

Gi'rlishly. ad'v.[itomgirhfh.'\ In a girl-

1.

ToGi'rdle. 11, fl. [from the noun.]

Milton* t Patadife Loft.

In her girlijb age (lie kept (heep on the moor.

fomewhar amillt, until
Brown's Fulgar Eriouis.

Are now contin'd two mighty monarchies. Shakcff.

Pr!»r,

The fon appear'd,

youthful*

is

2. Enclofure ; circumference.

3.

Dryden.

!

Sbakefp.

To jnveft.

Girt with omnipotence.

a girl, like her, inuft be divine !

fixed upon the horfe.
Heie lies old Hobfon, death hath broke hit jpV/
And here, alas hath laid him in the dirt. Milton,

On him his mantle, girdle, fword and bow,
On him hit heart and loul he did bellow. Cowley.

Mac. iii.25.

Cirdon, and fword upon tliy puiltint thigh. Milton.
No, let us rife at once, gird on our fwords,
And, at at the head of our remaining troops,
AdJijm'i Cato.
Attack the foe.

!

is

Embroider'd all with leaves of myrtle.

He girt his warlike harnefs about him.

My bow and thunder, my almighty arms

But oh

Gi'ri ISH. adj. [iiom girLI Suiting agirl;

A cap of Howers, and a girdle^

Sviift.
_

To fallen by binding.

3.

Rofcrmmon.

A boy, like thee, would make a kingly line

With a thoufand fragrant pofies ;

Cords of the bigoefs of packthread were fattened
to bandages, which the workmen had girt round my
,

the

back girder need not be fo llrong as the front girder.
Moxon's Alech, Jixerc.
Thefe mighty girder! which the fabrick bind,
Thefe ribs robull and valt in ordcrjoin*d. Blackmore.

or girt.

[jypban, Saxon.]
1. To bind round.

neck.

fummers and ground-plates are of, though

the

The herb turnfol.
2. The opal (lone.
1,

To GIRD.

much to Itoop

As a grave matron would to dance with girls.

or bread fummers,

:

n. f.

'l'r.igedy ihould blufli as

To the low mimick follies of a farce,

Its
the largcfl piece of timber in a floor.
end is ufuzdly faftened into the fummers,

The widow play'd the g:ffy, and fo did her confidant too, in pretending to believe her. L'EJlraitgr,

A llave I am to Clara's eyes
The gifjy knows her power, and flies.

be his wrack e,
Proude girle like, that dolh ever beare her dowre Upo«
Chapman.
her bdcke.
A weather-beaten lover, but once known,
Donne.
Is I'port tor every girl to praflife on.

Tilloljon.

plexion.
Laura, to her lady, wis but a kitchen-wench;
Dido a dowdy i Cleopatra a giffy ; Helen and Hero
Shutrf. Romeo and Juliet.
hildings and harlots.
name of flight reproach to a woman.
3.

In thofe iinflcdg'd days was my wi.fc a ^rl. Shak.
Shak.
1 will love thee ne'er the le(s, my^/>/.
The foole Amphimaclius, to field brought gold t»

:

more than

A Ugil in his hand the gifjj^ bears.

from the Iflaiidick

A young woman,

woman.]

or female child.

Drayton.
pride togiid at mc

not able to invent any thing that tends to laughter
1 am
1 invent, or is invented on me
not only witty in myfelf, but tlie caufe that wit is in

folk, or a i\ oan every time his fortune is toU him,
for
(Iiuis himfcii up in the pautry with an old gipp
AaJiJln.
above halfan hour.

V

I

derives it moft probably
karliniia, a

the brain of this foolilh compounded clay, man,

fiognomy.

I,

cut.

jeft ;

A vagabond who pretends to foretell fucommonly by palmeftry or phy-

J.

G

G 1 R

G I R

<f.

a.

preter.

gave; part. paff.

giivn. [gipen, Saxon.]
I.

To bellow ; to confer without any price
or reward ; not to fell.
I had a mailer thM gave me all I could afk, but

duced. Skiitncr imagines that the Saxons,
who uffd ciopl for a man, miglit likewife have ceojila for a woman, though

thought lit to take one thing from me again. Temple.
Conftant at church and change ; l>i( g^ins were

BO fuch word is now found,

His giving! raie, five farthingi W the poor.

Dr. Hicltei

Cure.

i

Qjt

Pope.

Wfcle

GIT

G I V

While traJefmcn ftarw thcfc ITiilomelj »rt j«»;
Tor gco'rout lotJt bad tnhngivt thuii pay. i'mng.
Hallulclcfs doom'd lo live,

and hath given the world to underiland,
the wicked, although they cry, (hall not be
Hooker.
heard.

in prayers ;

that

Harit.

Pr»y'i» and aJvice aie all I have to givt,

t, 'I'o tranfmit from himfelf to another by
hand, fpeech, or writing ; to deliver.
The woman whom thou gavcft to te with me,
flie govt me of the tree, and I did eat. Gel. iii. 12.
1 hey were eating and drinking, marrying and
Ma:l, xxiv. 3S.
givi'rg In marriage.
Tliofe bills are printed not only every week, but
alfo a general account of the whole year was given
Graunl,
in upon the Thurfday before Chriftraas.
We (hall give an account of thefe phenomena.
Burnet.

Give mc 10 know

How this fuul rout began, who fet it on.

The applaufe and approbation I give to both your

-

To put into one's poflefllon; to confign;
to impart; to communicate.
Give us of your oil, ior our lamps are gone out.

To pay as a price or reward, or in ex-

4.

change.
All that a man hath will he f(w forhls life.

16.

To do any aft of which the confequence reaches others.
As we defire to give aaoSenQe ourfelves, fo neither

18.

In oranges the ripping of the rind givetb out their

fmcU more.
20. To addift; to apply.

The Helots, of the other fide, (hutting their gates,
to bury their dead, to cure their
Sidney.
wounds, and rclt their wearied bodies.
After man began to grow to number, the (irit
thing we read they gave themfelves into, was the
tilling of the earth and the feeding of cattle. Hooker.
Groves and hill-altars were dangerous, in regard
of the fecret accefs which people, fuperltitioudy p/x-fw,
Hooker.
might have always thereunto with eafe.
The duke is virtuous, mild, and too well given.
To dream on evil, or to work my downfall. Sbakc/p,
Fear him not, Caefar, he's not dangerous
He is a noble Roman, and well given.
Shakefp.
His name is Falftalf: if that man (houldbe lewdly
given, he deceives me; for, Harry, 1 fee virtue in

To quit; to yield as due.
Give place, thou ftranger, to an honourable man.
Eic/e/.

To confer; to impart.

Sbakefp.
Huniades, the fcourge of the Turks, was dead long
before ; fo was alfo Mathias
after whom fuceeded
his looks.

and gije thee a fon alfo of her.
Gen. xvii.
Nothing can g/v» that to another which it hath
I will blefs her,

:

others, giV<« all to pleafurc and cafe. Knolles' s Hiji.

Bramb. againji HMes.

Though he was given

What beauties 1 lolie in fome places, I give to

He that giverb his mind

Ecciff. xxxix. I.

He Is mMz\i given to contemplation, and the viewMore againft Aih.
They who gave themfelves to warlike a^ion and

ing of this theatre of the world.

Rxi^ite.

enterptifes, went immediately to the palace of Odin.

Atterbmy.

Temple.

To yield

Men are given to this licentious humour of fcofiing

not to deny.
;
gave his wife propofal way ;
Nay, urgM him to goon: the Oiallow friud
Will rum him.
Rome't Ambiiiout Stefmotber.

at perfonal bicmilhcs and defedls.

l.'EJIralige.
Belides, he is too much given to hcrfeplay in his

I

and comes to battle, like a dilator from
the plough.
Dryden.
1 have Tome bulioeft of importance with her;
but her hufband is fo horribly given to be jealous.
Dryden' s Spanijh Fryar.
What can I tcfufe to a roan fo charitably given f
raillery ;

n.. To afford; to fupply.
This opinion abated the ftar of death in them
which were U refoWcd, and garvi tliem courage to

Hooka.

and bumt-offeringt, that
we may facrifice unto the Lord.
£«. x. 25.

>2.

alfo facrifices

To empower; to coinmiffion.

Dryden.

21.

Prepare

The due libation and the folemn pray'r;
Then give thy friend lo fbtd the faaed wine. P»fe.
1 3.

tp

he was
Bacon's Henry VII.
the law of the moft

pleafure, yet

High, will feek out the wifdom of all the ancients.

All clad in (kits of liealls ihe jav'lin hear;

Give to the wafiton wtndi their Jlowing hair. Dryti,
5» To grant ; to allow.
'Tis given me once again to behoW any friend.

Give, us

to

likewifedciirous of glory.

them not orijcinally.
Orydea.
8. To expofe; to yield without retention.
ot])er$ which had

all advonturci.

Bacon,

gave themfelves

:

JO.

Bur::et.

To exhibit; to fend forth as odours

from any body.

he was drowfj, and fecmed to

He has not givtn Luther fairer play.

we take any at the diflference of judgment in

others.

Li^cke.

«oi itfelf.

Arbutbnoi.

a-piece.

give fmall attention. The prifoner, after fentence
Wat pronounced, faid, I appeal the king, fomcwhat
ftirred, faid. To whom do you appeal.^
The prifoner anfwered, from Philip, when he gave no ear,
lo Philip, when he (hall give ear,
Bacon' t Apopbt.
Conliantia accufed herfelf for having fo tamely
given an ear to the propofal.
AdJiJm'i SpeUator.

7.

Hale.

To

Philip, Alexander's father, gave fentence agalnft a

6.

To enable.

Immortal vigour, though oppreii'd and fall'n,
Milror't Paradife Loft.
I give not Heaven for loft.
For a man t» give his name to Chriftianity in
tbofe days, was to lift himfcU a martyr.
Souib.
Oun gives himfelf for gone ; you've watch 'd your
time.

>

To refign

;

Dryden.

The patents, after a long fearch for the body, gave
him lor drowned in one of the canals.
Addijun.
A] the hinder feet of the horfe ftuck to the
mountain, while the body reared up in the air, the
poet with great difficulty kept himfelf from Hiding
oft" his back, in fo much that the people gave him
Addifen's Guardian,
for gone.
12,

To conclude ; to fuppofe.
Whence came you here, O frieod, and whither
bound ?

All gave you loft on far Cyclopean ground.

ruptible.

yield; not tq withhold.
at a time

to fhew.

;

exhibit as the produft of a calcula17.
tion.
The number of men being divided by the number
of (hips, gives four hundred and twenty-four men

19.

exchange his Iheep for (hells, or wool for a fparkling

prifoner

to pronounce.

This inltance gives the impoflibility of an eternal
any thing elTentially alterable or cor-

Shake/feare.

'I'o

To exhibit

(hall

He would give his nuts for a piece of metal, and
pebble.

;

exiftence in

You would abate the lirength of your difpleafure.

J.

To Utter; to vent

backs, gave a great (hout in deri6on of them. Knolles.
Let the firft honel^ difcoverer give the word about,
that Wood's halfpence have been ottered, and caution
Situft.
the poor people not to receive them.

>A, i!. 4If you di«l know to whom I gaiue the ring,
If yo& did know for whom 1 gave the ring.
And would conceive for what 1 gavt- the ring.
And how unwillingly 1 left the ring.

Sbakefp.Troilus and Crejjida.

So you muft be the firft that gives this fentence.
And he that fuffers. Sbakejp. Meajurefor Mea/nre.
The Rhodians feeing their enemies turn their

impolSble into their poems, aot gives them
Bmoine.
licence to run out into wildnefs.

V

He fights this day unarm 'd, without his rhyme.

To pay.

fpeechcs.

15.

I

Depreft and overthrown, as feem'd |
Like that fell-begoit'n bird
From out her a(hy womb now teem'd. Milion't Agt^
Since no deep within her gulph can hold

Ticket.

14.

falfe ai)d

Mall. XIV.
Nature gii'ts us many children and friends, 10
take thcot away ; but t^es none away to give them
Temple.
WS again.
Give me, fays Archimedes, where to (land firm,
1
will
remove
the
ear^.
Trnifle.
(nd
If the agreement of men firft gave a fceptte into
any one*s hands, or put a crown ou his head, that
Locke.
almoll muft i\xz& its conveyance.

Stake/p.

So fome weak thoot, which elfc would poorly rile,
Jove'i tree adopts, and li^ts into the fkics;
Through the new pupil folVring juices flow,
Thrull forth the gems, and give the iiow'rs to blow.

Ariftotle advifes notpoets to put things evidently

3.

G

Vmueg'v'n for lo(f,

Cod himfelf reqsireth the lifting up of pure hands

to yield up.

Finding ourfelves in the midft of the greateft wildcrnefs of waters, without viAual, we gave ourfelves
for loft men, and prepared fur death.
Bacon.

Who fay, I care not, thofe I give for loft;
And to ixiftru£l then) will not ^uit the C9&..Jiericrt,

Garib.

'I o
alienate from
23. To Give a-waj,
one's felf ; to make over to another; to

transfer.

The more he got, the more he (hewed that he
gave aivay to his new milb'cfs, when he betrayed
his promiics to the (ormer.

Sidney,

If you fhall marry.

You give avay this hand, and that is ifiine
You give away heav'n's vows, and tholie are mine ;
You give away myfcll, » hich is known mine. Sijak^
Honeli company, 1 thank you all.
That have beheld me give aM:ay myfelf

To this moft patient, fweet, and virtuous wife. Shak,
I

know not how

they fold themfelves j but thou,

like a kind fellow, jJt|/? thyfclfatijy gratis, and
Shakefp. Henry IV.
1 thank ihec for thee.

Love gives aiuay all things, that lo he may advance the interelt of the beloved perfon.
Taylor.
But we who give our native rights av/ay.
And our enflav'd pofterity betray.
Arc now reduc'd to began alms, and go.
On holidays to fee a pupjet-lhow.
Dryd. Jmi.
Alas, faid 1, man was made in vain!
How is he

given avuay to niifery and mortality

Addifon,
Theodoiius made a private vow never to inquire
after Conftantia, whom he looked upon as given
avj-.y to his rival, upon the day on which their
marriage was to have been folcmuized.
Addifon,
Whatfocver we employ in charitable ufcs, during
our lives, is given avjay i\Qvs\ ourfelves; what w«
bequeath at our death, is given from others oaly,
as our neareft relations.
Ailerbitry.
!

To

return; to reftore.
To Give had.
Their vices perhaps give t>ack all thofe advan«
tages which their viflories procured.
Allerbmy^

24.

To Giv t. forth. To publifh ; to tell.
Soon after it was given forth, and believed by
Hayv/ard,
many, that the king was dead.

25.

26. To Give the hand. To yield pre-eminence, as being fubordinate or inferior.
Lcdbns being free fiom fome intonvenitnccs,
whcrcunto fcrnions arc more fubjc<5l, they may in
this refptft no Icfs take than in others they muft girt
the hand, which betokeneth pre-eminence. Hooker^

27.

To Gwt. i^er. To leave;

to quit; to

ceafe.
Let novelty therefore in this give over endlefi
contradiwlions, and let ancient cuftoms prevail.
Hooker.
It

may be done rather than that be given over.
Hooker.

Never jf/« her o'er%
For fcorn at firft makes after love the more. Shakefp.
If Dcfdemona will return me my jewels, 1 will
give over my fuit, and repent my unlawful folicitaShakefp. Othello,
All the foldiers, from the higheft to the loweft,
had folemnly fworn to defend the city, and not to
give It aver unto the laft man.
Xaollet's Hiftory.
Thofe troops which were levied, y\vn given over
the profcciition of the war.
Clarcmdon,
But worft of all to give her over,
fludiiras.
'Till Ihe'i at dcfperatt to recover.
tions.

A woma«

G I V

6 I V

A woman had a hen that UiJ (very day an egg

;

etpcfled aflura'nce of the

fhe fancied that upon a larger allowance this hen might

,

VEjlrange.

Many have ^/Wh ovf»- their purfults after fame,
either from the dilapjk.i ;iments they have met, or
from their expcritucetM the little pleafure which attends it.

Zelmanc, govern and direft nie j for I am whollv

crowd their annals.

to all manner of vice, it was time far the Lotd,who
had fet up that empiie, to pull it down.
Grnp.

The leagues made between feveral ftates difowning
all claim to

mjfelf fo much over

world.

natural right.

Since it is lawful 'to praflifc upon them that are
forfaken and given m/er, I will adventure to pre-

Not one fortelis I Ihall recover ;
But all agree to give rae over.

Addifon's Freeholder.
An old gentleman, who had been engaged in an
argument with the emperor, upon his friend's telling
him he wondered he would ^;Ve up the ijueftion when
he had the better, I am never aftiamed, fays he, to
be confuted by one who is mafter of fifty legions.

in all manner of isdi^tent ceremonies, will be very
bard, and therefore beft logive it o'er.
H^Aer.
Abdemelech, as one weary of the world, ^ot/tr^r/rr
all, and beioolc himfelftoafolitary life, and became a

;

to pub-

lifh ; to ntter.

The fathers give it oul for a rule, that wbalfoever Chrift is faid in Scripture to have received, the

&me we ooght to apply only to the manhood of Chrift.
Hociter.

A ferpent ttung me.

my orchard,

So the whole ear of Denmark

Is by a fbn;ed procefs of

my death,
Shjkefpeare' $ Hamlet.

Sonof Polixcncs, with hisprinceli.
Sbakrfp.
It hath been ^/fnr oar, by an hypocritical thitf,
who was the tirlt matter of my (hip, that I carried
with me out of England twenty-two thoufand pieces

«

of twe.Tty-two Ihillings per piece.
RaUigb.
VKzgme o»/ general fummons for the aflemhly of
his council for the wars.
Kncllei't HiJIr.ry,
The night was diftinguilhed by the ordeis winch

htgaveoultX) his army, that they Ibould forbear all
infuldug of their enem..
Addijun.

32. To Give out.
ance.

To (how in falfe appear-

His givingt out were of an infinite diftance

From his irae meant defign.

Shakefp.
She that, lb voune, could give out futh a
feeminsi
To feal her father's eyes up tlofe as oak.
Sbakrfp.

33. To Give uf.

To refign

;

to quit ; to

7b Give

5.

Hayu'ard,.

[A French phrafe.]

taio

To'

adopt ; to embrace.
This is geography particular to the mcdalifts :
the poets, however, have fometimes given ir.to
it,
and furnifti us with very good lights for the explica•10" of ''•
Addifon on

Bentley.

Medals.

Have the phyficians ^/v'» up all their hopes
;
Cannot they add a lew days to a monarch ?
Rov.'e.
Thefe people were obliged to demand peace, and
give up to the Romans all their poirelDons in Sicily.

This confideration may induce a tranllator to give
in to thofe general phrafes, which have attained
a
veneration in our language from being ufed
in the-

Arbulhnot

The whole body of the 1people
are v..
either
in,. iiuuiUiV
ftupidlv
r'- "'^
"'
negligent,
or -"--•--eire^?/w>j in with all
•
" their
i,,/
might
f»
thofe very praSices that are working their deftruc-

Every one

Old Teftament.

thoufand prejudices, that he flull be configned over
to the follies o( his own heart.
Wi//r.
Give youtfelves up to fome hours of leifurc. Ifaits.

34. To Give up.

-

Swift.

To ceale; to forbear.

To Give of.

The puniftiment would

be kept

if we gave off ai foon as
reaches the mind.

much,
it

given up to tell them.
Stillingfleet.
Our minds naturally give themfelves uf to every
diverfion which ihey are much accuftomed to ; and

we always find that play, when folllowed wiih alTiduity,en5roaes the whole woman.
Addifin.

A good poet no fooner communicates his works,

but it is imagined he is a vain young creature given

up to the ambition of fame.

p^pc.

am obliged at this time to give up my whole

application to Homer.

Perfons, who, through misfortunes, chufe

-

''""•

6.

To abandon.

If any be given uf lo believe lies, fome muft be

I

p^pg

-J

who will

not a(k for the condudt of
God in the ftudy of religion, has juft reafon to fear
he Ihall be left of God, and^;Ve« up a prey to a

p^pe.
not to

drefs, (hould not, however,g/i.<

uf neamefs. Clarijfa.
Todcliver.
35. y'l/GivE K/.
And Joab gave up the fum of the number of the
people to the king.
j Sam. xsiv. 9.

7.

To Give

cmer.

from being too

we perceived that
Locke.

To ceafe

;

to aft

no

more.
If they wilhfpeak to the purpofe, they vm^give
over, and ftand upon fuch particulars only as ihcy

can (hew we have either added or abrog,ited, oihcr^wife than we ought, in the matter of church polity.
Hooker,
Neither hath Chrift, thiough union of both nathe damage of either; left, by being
born a man, we (liould think he hath given over
to be Ood, or that becaufc he continued God therefore he cannot be man alfo.
Hooker.
tures, incurred

Give not o'er fo

;

to

him again

;

intre,it him,

Kmceldown before him, hang upon his gown ;
You are too cold.
Shakefp. Meajarefir Meafure.
The ftate of human aiftfcns is (0 variable, that to

His accounts were confufcd, and he could not then
give them up.
Svift,

try things oft, aad never 10 give over, doih wonders.

ToGisinuay. To yield ; not to
fill
to make room for.

Dcmclrius, king of Macedon, had a petition offered him divers times by an old woman, and IliU
anfvveiedhe had noleifure; whereupon the woman
fald aloud. Why then if/t;e<iv« tu be king. Bacon.
So Satan, whom rcpulfe upon rcpulfe
Met ever, and lo (liametiil fileiice brought,
Ym gives not o'er, though dcfperate olfuctefs. Milt.shall we kindle all this flame

36.

re-

;

yield.

The peofle weary of the mifcrles of war,
would
true iumup, if they faw him li.nnlt.
Sidn,y
He has betray'd vour bulinel!, anj given up
Fcrwtain drops olC.lt, your city Rome.
Shitk
The fun, breaking out with his cheeiful beams
revi»ed many, betore ready to g;v« up
iheghort, foi
toW, and gave comfort to them all. Knollet't
Hill
He t.,ind the Lord Hopion in trouble for the
lofs
•i thetegnaentoffooiitt Alton, aod
wKh ilje un-

«'*.«<' «'•"""

Atterbury,

firft

One that jj/t/MOK/ himfelf prince Florizel.

The charge was given with fo well governed fury
that the lett corner of the Scots battalion was
enfor-

He may be brought lo give up the cleareft evidence.
given up alfo, as a groundlefs conceit.

To G11K in. To go back; to giveaway.
Not in ufe.

4.

The conftant health and longevity of man muft be

Knolla.

;

Daniel's C. IVar.

Addif.

*

Milton,

Now back he gives, then rufiies on amain.

Addifin.

racy againft him, and immediately gave up a caufe
which was excluded from all poflibiliiy offuccefs.

To abandon.
The duty of uniformity throughout all churches,

The caufe for which we fought and fwore
So bolaiy, Iball we vutvi give 0' er ?
Hudibrajs.

Up and down he travcrfcs his ground.
Then nimbly (hifts a thruft, then lends a wound

He faw the celeftial deities afting in a confede-

Sv/ift.

Sleep hath fbrfook, and giv'n me o'er
To death's benumbing opium, as my only cure.

Mortimer.

A French Phrafe.

To move.

3.

A popiih prieft threatened to excommunicate a

30. To Give o'ver.

Rankly abufed.

Before you carry your large cocks in,opr::
thei«
once, and fpread them : hay is apt to give
in the
"^''-

NorlhumberUnd fquire, if he did not give up to him

Pofie.

It is given our, that, deeping in

malt.^Mbr//«.

Addifin.

the church lands.

HerSerf.

Unlels It IS kept in a hot houfe, it will
fo give
again, that it will be no better than raw

Learn to be honeft mtn, give uf your leaders.

And pardon ftiall defcend on all the reft.

That, whilft he creeps, his vig'rous thoughts can foar.

To proclaim

Then chiefly lives.

I^cke.

Would ^fVe Uf Africk into Ciefars hands.

'riie abbefs, finding that the phyficians had given
her mer, told her that Theodolius was juit gone
before her, and had fent her his benediction. Addif.
Her condition was now ^uite dcfperate, all regular
phyficians, and her neareft relations, having given
ker over.
Arbuibnot.
Yet this falfe eomfoit nmrgivei him e'er,

21. To Give out.

bacon's Natural Hijory,
_, ,
Only a fweet and virtuous foul.
Like feafon'd timber, nevtrgivei
;
But though the whole world turn to coal.

And make him lord of half the burning zone. Addif.

I1udihraf\.

X° ""^'^"'J togrowmoift; to melt or

Some things are harder when they come from the
hre, and afterwards give again,
and grow foft ; ai
tbecruftof biead, bilket, fwcetmeats, and fait.

Tuba's furrender, fince his father's death.

'

Hooke.

foften ; to thaw.

We (hould fee Xwmgive up again to the wild com-

theconveniencies of^fe.

;

Ar where your cafe can be no worJ'c,
Thedefp'ratctl is the wifeft courfe,

monk.

2-

;

Dryden.

Hannibal ^asjf ufox the Romans.

mon of nature, whatever was more than would fuoply

Suckling.

'Tis not amifs, e'er y' are giv'n o'er.

To try one defp'rate med'cine more

Your orders come too late, the fight's begun

Locke.
If they ^/Ve them up to their reafons, then
they
with K\\tmgive up all earth and farther enquiry and
think there is no fuch thing as certainty.
Locke.

Temple,

To conclude loft.

to give the aflault.

The enemy gives on with fury led.

the land in the other's poffelfion, have,

by common confent,^/Wa lep their pretences to their

;

of adoption.

Dryden.

to it as to negle£l what I owed either to God or the

to fall on

;

A phrafe merely French, and not worthy

He declares

himfelf to be now fatisfied to the
contrary, in which he has giv:n
uf the caufe.

leribe to you.

.

Dryden.

g'fven over u:no thee.
Sidney.
When the Babylonians had given themfelves over

To rulh

I

Collier againjl Defpair.
1 can give up to the
hiftorians of your country
the names of lo many generals and heroes which

29, To Give o^er.

To GivE.ai. «.

therefore I'll e'eng/t/e it»/>and go and fret myfelf.

AJdlfon'sSfeclator.

1 ufed one thing ill, or gave

that oftranfmitting from one to another.

j

ToGivE over, Toaddift; to attach to.

28.

fy. the general idea is

"';
Clarendon.
Let as give ourfelves wholly up to Chrift in heart
and defire.
Taylor's Rule ofliving holy.
Such an expeiftation will never come to pais

lay twice a day ; but the hen grew fat, and gait qirite
ex'cr laying.

G I V

g/wV^*^ of Arundel-caf.

Private refpefts, with him, gaveiuay to the com-

mon good.

Cartvj.
Perpetual piifliiug and alTurance put a difficulty oul

of countenance, and make a feemin^ iinpoflibility
givi v.'ay.
Colli ir.
Scare* had he fpolcen when the cloud gave way
;
Tlie mills flew upwards, and dilfolv'd in day. Diyd.
Hit colden Wlmgivei vay wiih ftonyblows,
Batier'd and ftat, and beaten to his brows. Dryden.

37.

The word ^/w is ufcd with great laxi-

Jiacon'j Natural Illfliry.

Only to put it out again ?
And muft we now giveo'er
And only end where we begun ?
In vain this mifchicl we have done.
If vve

cm do no more.

It would

be well for

Venham,'
all

autho(9|

it'

they

knew
w^eu

»>i«B to t'^f ever, tai to defiil from tny firtlicr
MJi/w.
purfuits «lici f»mt.
He i.oi"cd agiin, and wa» forced to give mtr tor
Swjft.
tlie faint ttiiin.

ToGivt out. Topublini

8.

Simon brwitchtd

;

of

llic p«>^-le

.-/.f?!, viii.

9.

Avf Pompcy's preparations, by
how Cxfai's own

a tiiae that he cunningly g^ivc out
foldiers loved him not,

BaKit,

Your ill-wiihers ViU girt out your are now going
to quit your fchool.

9.

S-uIJi,

»

To ceafe

ToGivt 6ut.

to yield.

;

Wc

are the earth i and they
Like motes wiiliin us, heave and call about ;
And 'till they foot and clutch their prey ;

whether open or fliaded, and has there',
fore epithets of cppofite meaning.

They WciTcJ the king, and went unto their tenlJ
1. Kingt,ii\\\. 66.
joyful and 4;/ji of heart.
Glud wc leturn'd up to the coafts of light. Milton.

Milton.

The wily adder blithe and glad.
Thiiher rtiey
Haded with g/<»</ precipitance.

to proclaim.
SamirU, giy'-'H

eut lh»t himtelf was fomc great out.
Julius C.cfarUid

GLA

G L A

G L A.

2.

Wearing

gay

a

Milion.

appearance ;

So (lam'd hiseyen with rage and rancorous ire ;
But far within, as in a hollow glade,
Thofe glaring lamps were fei, that made a dreadful
Spenjcr.

(hade.

Lo where they fpy'd, how in a gloomy glade

fertile ;

llubberd.

The lion llcepiiig, lay in fecret ihade.

bright ; fttowy.

The w ildernefs and the folitary place (hall be glad
for them,

and the defart (hail rejoice and blolTom as

the role.

Ifaiab, xxxv.

Then firft adorn'd
With their bright liiir.inarics, that fet and rofe.
Glad Ev'ning and glad Morn crawn'd the fourthday.
Alilton.

O might

1

here

In folitude live favage, in (ome glade,
Obfcur'd, where highcft woods, impenetrable
To ftaror fun-light, fpread their umbrage broad.
Milton's Paradife I-ofi.
And brown as evening.

When any, favoui'd of high Jove,
Chances to pafs through this adventurous ^/aiir.

with joy. It has generally of, fomctimes at or nvith before
perhaps a/is mod
the caufe of gladnefs
proper, when the caufe of joy is fomcthing gained or poffefled and at or tuith,
when It is fome accident befallen himfelf

Swift as a fparkle of a glancing ftar
I (hoot from heav'n togive him fafe convoy. Milton,
For noonday's heat are clofer arbours made.
And for frelh ev'ning air the op'ner glade. Drydtn.
There interfpcis'd in lawns and opening glades.
Thin trees arife ihat (hun each olliet's (hades. Pope,
By the heroes armed (liadcs
Gliit'ring through the gloomy glades ;

Well we may afford
Our given their own gifts. Milton's P.iraJife Loft,
By thee how fairly is the g/vir now

or another.

By the youth that dy'd for

Repaid ? But gratitude in thee is loft

of it.

tltrbcri.
Tliey never cool, much lefsgiit <,iti.
Madam, I always believ'd you lo ftout,
out.
give
That for twenty' deoiaU you would not
Swift.

Gi'viR. n.f. [from^/tv.] One that gives
donor; beftovver diftributer; graiiter;

;

;

Mi/lon's FaiaJi/eRc-gaixeJ.
Ix>ng fince.
news ;
I have not liv'd fincc lirll 1 heard the
DiyJen.
The gift the guilty giver doth accufe.
Both gifts deftruWive to the givers prove ;
Pofe.
Alike both lovers fall by thofe they love.

Gives, n.f. Fetters or Shackles for the feet.
Gl'zZARD. «. /. [gejjer, Yrench; gigeria,
Latin.] It is fonietimes called ^;z^fr».
fowl.
1. The ftrong mufculoiis ftomuch of a
pick up l>ones to

Fowls hav; two veniriclcs, and
convey them into their fecond ventricle, the gix^c-rm-s.
More.

In birds there is no m.iftication in the mouth ; but
in fuch as are not carnivorous, it is immediately
fwallowed into the crop, a kind of aiueftomath,
where it is moiftened by fome proper juice from the
glandules diftilling in there, and thence transfci red
Ray.
into l\\egi^zjirJ, or mufculous ftomach.

They iieftle near the throne.
DryJett.

ufed forapprehenfion,

or conception of mind : as he frets
gizzard, he harafles his imagination.

his

not halt fo dear to

fo

them as the

». /.

[from glaber, Latin.]

SmoQthnefs ; baldnefs.

made of ice ; frozen.

Ta GLACIATE,
g/acer, French.

'u.

n.

[glacies,

Latin;

To turn into ice.

Glaci a'tion, n.f. ^{rom gleinttte.]

Ci.K'c\ovi adj.

The

;

[^/(jf/a,

Latin.] Icy; re-

fembline ice.
confervaloAlthough exhaled and
ries, it will cryftalije and (boot intof /<ifi™r bodies.

placed in cold

Brown's Fu/gar Errcurs.

CLA'CIS. H. f. [French] In

fortification,

a floping b;ink. It is more efpecially
taken for that which rangeth from the
parapet of the covered way to the level
Harris.
on the fide of the field.
GLAD. adj. [jlxb, Saxon ; glad. Danilh.]
X. Cheerful ; gay ; in a llatc of hilarity.
S

nilbed.

He glad
Of hex attention, gain'd with ferpent tongue,
Milion.

liis fraudulent temptation ihus began.

If he be

my enemy, let him triumph; if he be

my friend, he will be glad if my repentance.

Dryd.

Rcllore, reilore Eiirydice to life !
Oh! take tlie hulband or reltore the wife !

4. Pleafing ; exhilarating.
Her converfation
More glad to me than to a mifer money is. Sidney.
5. Expreifing gladnefs.
Hark! a g/ii<i voice the lonely defert cheers
Po/ie.
Prepare the way, a God, a God appears
:

Harte.
New drel\ and blooming as a bridal maid.
Gla'den. ) n.f. [from gladius, Latin, a
Avord.] Swordgrafs
a geGla'der. J
neral name of plants that rife with a broad
:

approach-

Lode.

To

to cheer; to exhilarate.

A fword player

;

a prizefighter.

Then whil(\ his foe each gladiator foils,
The aiheiif, looking on, enjoys the fpoils. Deniam.
Betides, in gratitude for fuch high matters,

Know 1 have vow'd two hundred gladiators. Dryd.
[from glad.] Joyfully:
ad-v.
with gayety ; with merriment ; with triumph ; with exultation.

:

\t glads me

To

fee fo many virtues thus united,
Torcftorejurticeand dethrone opprelTion.

For his particular, I'll receive him gladly ;
Sb.ikrfpeare's King Ijar.
But not one follower.
You are going to fet us right ; and 'lis an advantage every body will gladly fee you engrofs the glory

BhunttoPofe.

of.

His adamantine fetters fall green vigour
Gladding the Scythian rocks, and Lybian fands.
Crx/haw.

Oltuay.

Each diinks the juice that pWi the heart of man.
Pope.

Cheer*

Gla'd NESS. n.f. [from glad.]
fulnefs ; joy ; exultation.

By fuch degrees the fpre.iding gladnefs ^xvM
In every heart, which fear had froze before
The Handing ftreeis with fo much joy they view.
That with Icfs grief the perilh'd they deplore. Dryd.

Gla'dsome. adj. [from f/a</.]
Pleafed ; gay ; delighted.

1.

If juftice Philips' coftive head

The higheft .ingcls to and fro defeend.

Some frigid rhymes dilhutfes,

From higheft heaven mgladfome company. Fairy ^.

Theylhall like Pertian talcs be read,
.^nd glad both babes and nurfes.

[from

Sivifi.

To

glad."]

cheer ; to delight ; to make glad ; to ex-

The gladfowe ^o^i in circling troops attend,
And wiih unweary'd eyes behold their friend. Dryd.
2. Caufiiigjoy; having an appearance of
gayety.
Each morn they wak'd me with a fprightly lay ;

hilarate

Oh, he was all made up oflove and charms!
Delight of every eye

Sfenfer.

Gladia'toR. n.f. \\M\n; gladiateur, Fr.]

Gla'd LY.

know it.

a.

[glad and /ulaefs,']
Obfolete.

And ihere him rcllsin riotous fufrifance
Of all his gUdfulnefs, and kingly joyance.

would be glad to learn from thofe who pronounce that the human foul always thinks, how iliey

"v.

'Junius

Joy ; gladnefs.

I

;

Pofe.

She fmil'd, array'd

With all the charms of lun-(hine, dream and glade.

Gla'd FULNESS n.f.

JJryden' s ACn
His faiicl.ion drew.
I'ojie.
did o/\ quarrel ftraiti clap the door.

6. It is ufed in a familiar fenfe,

love,

Wand'ring in the myrtle grove,

blade like fedge.

The gaping wound giilh'J out a crimfon iiood ;
The Trojan, giad wili light of holfile blood.

To Gla'dden.

ice formed.
Ice is plain upon the furface of water, but round
in hail, which is alfo a glacijiion, and figured in
Biotun'sVul. Err.
its guttulous dcfient from the air.

ad of turning into ice

r rover is.

ZJ/V?.

Gla'ciAl, adj. [glacial, French; glacialis;
Latin.] Icy ;

He that is glad at calamities (hall not be unpu-

treafure in their

L'Eftraxge.

colfiirs.

Gla'brity,

-.1

.Sbatefpeare.

Of th' icy Norlh, from froll-bound Atlas hands

curfedly hard
upon the gjj,xjrjx otour publicans, that their blood
is

Shakeffeare.
He hath an uncle in Meflina will be very much gla

He faw rich neftar-thaws releafe the rigour

HuMbrafs.
lie

am glad to fee your worlhip.

1

make glad

Which puis the over heated fots
Satisfaction and rellitution

:

To Clad. "v. a. [from the adjeftlve.]

But that which does them greatell harm,
Their fpiritual gixxatJsiK loo warm ;

In fevers ftill.

:

ing to ludicroufnefs.

By their hi^h aops and corny gixxuids known.
2, It as proverbially

3. Pleafed ; elevated

I

Of opening heav'n they lung laigladfome day.

When he appcar'd,

Pricr.

A fccret pleafure gladden'd all that faw him. .iddif.
A kind of vital heat in the foul cheers and gUd-

Gla'dsomely. adv. [from gladfome.] With
gavety and delight.

dens her, when (he does not attend to it. Addif, Sficl.

Gla'dder. ». /. [from ^/«,/.]

One

that

Gla'dsom ENESs

Drydin.

to be hot, or
to fhine; whence the Danifh^fW, and the
obfolcte Rnglith gUed, a red hot coal.]

Glade. »./. [from jlopan,

A lawn or opening in a wood.

[from

glad/ome.^

Glaire. n. J', [jlxn. Saxon, amber

exhilarates.
Th.iu gladder of the mount of CjTtheron,

Have pity, goddefs

«. /.

G.iyety; (howynefs ; delight.

makes glad ; one that gladdens ; one that

Lucus.

It is taken for an avcm*e through a wood.

;

glar,

Danifh, glafs ; glaire, French; gtarea,
Latin.]
The white of an egg.
I .
Take the glaire of eggs, and ftrain it as (hort at
water.

Peathem.

Di^'l.
Akind of halbert.
Ts Glaire, 1. a. [^lairer, French ; from

z.

the

G L A

G L A

the noun.]
To fmear with the white
of an egg. This word is ftill ufed by
the bookbinders.

i he

DryJen

:

lie double blows about him

The b,-ech is of two forts, and numbeiwl
nx.SK''^^7^''A

,^^j^

fiercely laid,

in '!? M °°f "

|

Olandulous.

His cortlet pierces, and his garment

went.

Mighty dulnefscrown'd,

o

Shall take

through Crub-ftreet her
triumphant round
once,
««hold a hundred fons, and each
a d«nce.
Pop,.

And her PuaMm gla„ch,g o'er at

wir

0/j»r, at my credit with Hippolita,

„ ,0 fay, this

I do not

hive never glanced upon the late
defigned^prol
ceiTionof hisholmefs ,nd h.s
attendants, notwith.
ftanding it might have afforded
matter
crous Ipecjlations.
AddT
He had written verfes wherein he glanced
at^'a
certain reverend doflor, famous
for dulnefs. i,< j/'t,

Shah

GLA'NClNGLy.

ad-v. [from glanceA
an oblique broken manner

Jn

tranfiently.

GLAND, n./. [g/a„,, Latin; ^/W.
Allthcglandj of a human

«he, parts
pals in, and

givinj

wav m

>

„.;

4m
1

j

d n, re to

^ °

-

.

^/,j^„ all were run.

A cup of glafs ufed to drink in. ^''"^'""'^
To this laft cortly treaty,

siaie/f.. Henrj fui.
When thy heart
Uilates with lervcnt joys, and
eager foul
Frompts to purfue the fparkling
gla/s,
J > be fure

'fistimc tolhuu it.

with too

"&

p/,;/;.

The quantity of wine ufually
in aglafs; a draught.

none

contained

1'''"'"
hi^di^'ntT
Y'^g^"/"^^^ Will not make
him
drunk, ibn one gla/s
),a,h difabled him from
well difcerning his prelent
condition.

Rule 0/

living holy.
Tl,. firft
II
;r may '^"J'"'''
The
gla/s
p.is (or health,
fi

the IbcoHd

"''•"'"''
o rttt
tourth
IS (ur
'?o'"'
our enemies.

their lirength.

/ r-n
<jLare.
*./ [from the verb.]
1
Overpowering luftre ; fplendour,

"'^'' ''"' "''' '""' "° "«"' •'» •«''''«

Thatfwallow'd fo much t'reafurc,
and like iglafs
Did break .'^ rinfi„g

pernicious fire

The h-,imeof biirnifh'd fteel that

%^Z

"foTne!''

One fpiril in them rui'd, and every
eye
0/«r ,/ lightning, and Ihot forth

dazzles the eye.
'

'^^

The golden Meleager now, their

'""• T^fl^ootfuch fplendour

/^ .

fand.

^"'

,

//^^*'/^ ff'!''t»'sralc.

EelrL Jrhe Cla^l.

.

moo tunide or mcmbraae.

.

r ^ilV:"."'"/"^""^^'''-^J. The deftined time of man's life

7-

Among th accurll, that wither'd all

Drjd. Horace

'"y "'''^'^ '>"
e ^
Infefted as licr life, Ihc would
not live

be their laft. D,yd.

or

light.

A glafs ufed in mea-

furing time by the flux of

.P/h^''
as. the eye cannot
bear.

t

:'fl>"'n'd

,

hand in hand '

I0 flime oftentatioufly,

mirrour.

The larks that in the melhcs

light,

g''"''''g ''"i notorious
pafTages are

body are reduced to
con^lomerl^e
A
fmooth h,^y! w"pt „„
is feparated
.n',h^

forts. VIZ. conglo!«,e
and
conglobate gland is a little

by which it
only admitting a/ar,
i^

Fairfax

made a furly ftand,

of.J''\'"'f
the fineft, or molt correft.

Fr.J

a

others
Shai./p.
"^ IV.
He (preads his fubtile nets from light, Henry

Uirown upon him.

much laboured lullre.

hTZHI

Siake/j,fMacict6.

;

With tinkling ^/.^„, to |,5,,_,y

Shakej;. Macbeth.

And wi,h d that ev'ry look might
3-

^'^'=''" ''""' ^o"' romething in
.r!"l,^'f 11''
K fl a"^V'~'>'''""'y "'"' iUneinflj,
^^' intendine
chiefly
difcourfe of his own
^yage.

flc.n.

That

HhAeff. Hamlei.
Now friends no more, nor walking

But when they met they

Glancing an eye oCpiiy on his
loOes.
bnough to prefs a royal nierclunt down.

A looking glafs

of epigrammatic]^
VHr'T^'" l""" """'^^
4.^« Nottr Glass.
'}yf'^^V •« maintains majefty in

Whjch thou doftj/... with.
Look, how pile he ^/.,r„.'

^^'''''^'''

no more

'"S*"'' ^PP""' "ho •*"« a glaft
Wh
l"n."''
Which
(hews me many more._

3.

6.

Ihoot obliquely.

''

aduft.

Aglafs veffel ofany kind.

z.

To look with fierce piercing eyes.

!.

Ti Glance, -v. a. To move nimbly;
to

a hne

And flones, and gla/s and nitrous grain

""""

Which con^uelt andfuccefs have

tomanvludi-

.,nd is afe

Show'rs of grenadoes rain, by
fudden burft "*
Uilploding murd'ious bowels,
fragments of fteel

I'll fee

but glar/s not:
and IS llately without ambition.
* Dryden
1 he court ol Cjcus ft^ds
reveal'd to fight
Ihe cavern g/.,r« with new
admitted light. Vryden
"^
Alas, thy dawled eve
Beholds this man in a (M-:glaring

Shuhfp

?

ar, or nature.

:aXt:drir='''^''''^^''^''"*'''>'"'"'[^'f

,rmiS,t*7
Ihemidlt ofplainnefs; he fliines,

I

two

'.

j,

flame.

,

1

,

Knowing I know thy love to -J'hcfeus

;

I

>ng"'s venom fwell,

A^i'^like the brand V'}"
And
of foul Aleflo

How can'ft thou thus, for (hame, Titania.

themfelvcs by negative,;

^'•'euam on Draining.
/-//,
"
^"'1 fi™ » body.
,h,/Tx'^'k'-.'^ "'"P'"^
that
IS laddtrua.ble
by

fo as to dazzle the eyes.

5'""!."^^"

an.l

verb

"^j- wLe c^::":;

'"'"• «"'"*
fe'^mbleL"''

Latin;'

light confufed.

To cenfure by oblique hints.

5.

f""" ">« Belgick

After great light, if you
come fuddenly into the
dark, or, contrariwife,
out of
^anng light, the eye is dazzled forthe dark into a
a time, and the

Suck/hg.
'

ft.finff

^W,",, which
ngnihes amongft them to Ihine,
or^ perhaps fr^

«• [gl""". Dutch.]
^"^^^{^^V'^'I. I
Ihine

and dance,

Then fit again, and figh ini glance;
Then <)^ce again and kifs.

made by

fand together, with

a vehement fire.

Such conljitutions mult be fubjeft
to glunduhm
tumours, and ruptures of the
lymphaticks.
Arbuth.

To view with a quick caft of thrive'to play the eye.
O- th' fudden up they rife

{glaudulofus,

fubftance

Hil?n7[''
"T"^
High
Dutch: ^'f'r
gla/s, from the

or parts official
unto generation, but glanduhm
fubftances, that
hold the nature ot eraunttorics.
Bru^un's V„h. Err

rends,

And glancing downwards near hU flank defcends.
a.

g

c^dj.

An artificial

fixed falts and flint or

glandulaix, \ rench, from glandule.]
Pertaining to the. glands ; fubfifting
in the
glands : having the nature of
glands.
the beaver's bags are no tefticles,

mc,

"*'"' '1 yo" two outright. Sbakrf.

Through Paris' ihield the forceful weapon

I.

are

upper parts of worms are found
certain
white and oval glandulojiries.
Srm^n'i r„lg. Err

io ftrike m an oblique direftion.

3.

I

In the

He has a littlegall'd me, I confcfs;

But as the jeft did g/^ce away from

""^Sines, from glds,
Britilh,
L, Erfe it is called Hd^„,
and
this primarily fignifies
clean or clear, being io denominated from
its
tranfpai^
rency.]
green.

A colledion of glands.

To fly off in an oblique direftion.

2.

Confiding of vif-

L.,

amoneft

Mortimers H„/handry.

Glandulo'sity. »./ [from^/aW«/««/i

Heavy the rattling thunders roll on

from glaire.]

:

„. /.

called duciutfalivales.

Speftfer,

.

„^,i ^ ^

Gla'ring.^^-. Applied to any
thing no^°"0"s as, a ^/flr,„_f crime.
1^1. ASS. ;,./ [jlsj,,
>3axoni glas, Dutch,

Nature hath provided feve.al glandnla
to feparate
this juice trom the blood,
and no lefs than four pair
of channels to convey it into
the mouth, which

When through thegloom the^/^^roVglightnbg^fly,
hi|h.
RoJ,
1

l^at.n ;

[^}a„dJa, Utln;
A fmall gland ferving to
the fecretion of humours.

When heavy hammers on the wedge are fway'J.
L

""'

GLA'.NDULE.
glaMe. t r.

As fparkles from the anvil ufe,
•

air,

detefted ^/^r.,

P,^,,, ^

cous tranfparent matter,
like" the white
or an egg.

iruir like acorns.

^itglanchg fire out of the iron pby'd,

1X71.

-^ddifon' s Guardian.

She hghs far ever

horfe

bearing acorns, or

A

ff,-^,,, ^„ ,^,

amidft ^ glare of flam.

.

And fcreen'd ,n ihades from day's

Farrier's Dili.
„. , ,
His horfe
IS poffcft with the
glanders, and like
to mofe m the chine.
Sbak. Taming of, he Shreiu
«^LANDi FERGUS, adj. [glam mAfero, Lztin.]
Bearing mail;

:

with one g/a„ce.

rapid motio:i of the blood obftma.
Blackmore.
f,./. [fromgland.] In a

„

grotto, Ihelier'd clofe from

A

Yet never fcem'J to caft a g/ajrct on
me
At which 1 inlyjoy'd, foriruth to fay,
I felt an unknown awe, and fome
difmav.
Hartr
fnatch of fight ; a quick view.
3.
The ample mind takes a furvey of fcveral oMeits

VoOlance. f, n. [from the noun.]
I. To fhoot a fudden ray of
fplendour.

u,'.
Here in a

ofquah'ygiidia,

IS the running of corrupt
fierce piercing look.
matter from .2.
the iiofe, which differs in colour
About them round
accord.-V lion now he
ing to the degree of the malignity,
ftalks with fiery glare
being
Milton.
O1.AREOUS.
adj. [glatreu^, Fr.
white, yellow, green, or black.
glareo/tts.

'

the eye.
Bjro„
There are of ihofe fort of beauties which
laft but
tor a moment fome particularity
;
of a violent paffion,
fome graceful aftion, a fmile, a g/ance
of an eye, a
difdamtul look, and a look of gravity.

degree

^"^ " P"'"'"'

.'"

and^ looking like a fpeftre

with th' arterial duft,

ULA NDERs.

The afpcfts which procure love are not taziriK,
but fudden glance, and dartings of

Boldly (he look'd like one of high

.

liivolv'd and twilled

His off'ring foon propitious fire from heav'n
Confum'd with nimble ^/a»rf, and grateful fteam
:
he
other's not j for hi> was not
1
fincere.
Milieu

A ftrolce or dart of the beam of fioht.

bvJl- P"',^

Ififeman.
.
I
,
glands, which o'er the body fpread,
rme complicated clues of nervous thread,

rt
I lie

GLANCE, n. /. [glantz, German, glitter.]
1. A fudden (hoot of 'ight or fplendour.
2.

G L A

The abfcefs begun deep in the body of the glands.

Milton.

8.

'""" ^^'="^^; tut"he

A perfpeaive glafs.

Temlil

The moon whofe orb
fuch as

„n

f

',?'' •"'"'

'"'•"> 'h^ ""oon by
glair'sTi

caft ^ glare

I'rom lar, auU lecro'd
to th*w ihc /rcKing air.

D'yd, Fab.

DrydtiK

n,
I.
ITtjLASS.
adj. Vitreous; made
of glafs.
Get thee gAi/i eyes

Ami.

CLE

G LA
Aod, like kicvn*}' polUician, fecm

To fee the things (l>ou do'tl itot.
Glifi banlcs are more
than tnolc of wood,

To Glass.

ii.

lit

Sbjk. King Ltar.

Mortimrr^t HuJhAndrj,

a.

Not in ufe.

:a glafs or mirrour.

Mcthinks I am partaker of thy paftion,
And in thy cafe iogla/i miae own debility. SiJjttf.
4. To cafe in glafs.
Methoughtall his fenfes were lockt in his eye.
As jewels in cryllal for fome prince to buy ;
Who tend 'ring their own worth, from whence they
were ghfif^
Did point out to buy them* along as you pail. Sbak,

To cover with glafs; to glaze.

3.

have obferved

little grains of lilver to lie hid
fmall cavities, perhaps g/aj/id over by a
vitritying hear, in crucibles wheiein lilver has been
Boyle.
long kept in fulion.

J

in

the

<jLa'ssfurnace.

liquefaftion.
If our dreamer pleafes to try whether the glowing
heat of a g/a/s-furmjct be barely a wandering imagination in a drowfy man's fancy, by putting his
hand iuto it, he mjy perhaps be awakened into a
certainty that it is iomething more than bare ima-

writing duft.
hofe womb produc'd the glajfy ice ?

W

Cla'ssgazing.

adj.

[gla/s

A whotfon, glfffga^'^gt finical rogue.

meet with.

Boyle.

jGla'sshoose. ft./, [glafs znA houfe,] A
Jioufe where glafs is manufaflured.
I remember to have met with an old Roman
Mof.iic,

compofed

of

little

pieces

of clay half
AJdifon.

vitrified, and prepared at the g/a/iiou/rs.

Gla'ssman. n.f. [g/a/iaadmaa,] One who
The profit ofglaflcs confills only in a fmall prefent
Sw/i.
Gla'ss METAL, ff. /. [glafs and metal,]
made by the ghjfman.

Glafs in fufion.
Let proof be made of the incorporating of copper
or bral's with gUJfiHcial.
Bacon's Pl-yf. Rem.
Gla'sswork. n.f. [glafs and ixjork.] Manufactory nf glafs.

The cryftn'liiie Venice glafs is a mixture, in
njual portions, of Hones brought from Pavia, and
the albej of a weed called kali, gathered in a defert
between Alexandria and Rcfttta; by the Egyptians
ufed firllfor fuel, and then tlieycruih the aiifies into
lumps like a (lone, and fo fell them to the Venetians
for x\\c\x glafftLHirtt.
Bacon's Natural Hilary.

.Gia'sswort, n.f. [yfl//V-or»/a, orfaltwork.]
It hath an apctalous Hower,

wanting the cmpaleent; for (he ftamina, or chives, and the cmbryoes
grow on the extreme part of ihe leaves; thefe
cmbryoes afterward become pods or bladders, which,
ibr the mofl pare, contain one feed.
The inhabitants near the fea-coall cut the plants up toward the
latter end of Summer; and, having dried them in
the fun, they burn them lor their alhes, wbiv;h are
ufcd in making of glafs and foap. Thefe herbs
are by the country people called kelp.
From tne
alhcs of thefe plants is citradled th« (alt called f.il
kali, or alkali, by the chymifts.
Miller.
For the fine glafs we ufe the purcft of the fineft
fand, and the aihcs of chali or glajpwart; and for
the coarfcr or green fort, the alhes of brake or other
plants.
Brmun'i Vulgar Errouri.

Gi a'sst. adj. [fiova glafs.]
Madcofglaf^;

vitreous.

In the valley near mount Carmel in Judta there
is a fani, which of all olhcis, hath moft affinity
with glais ; ihlomuch as other miuciaii laid in it
turu to i ifajfy fubftance.
iaan.

Bending to look on me.
Milton's Paradife Lojl.
Mine is a gleam of blifs, too hot to laft
Wal'ry it (hincs, and will be foon o'ercall. Dtyden.
We ken them fiom afar; the fctting fun
Plays on their (hining arms and burnifli'd helmets.
And covers all the field with gleams of fire. Addijon,
In the clear

A

therein differs from

what

it

Poft.

Nought was feen, and nought was heard.
But dreadful gleams^
Fires that glow.

1.

^incy.
The glaucoma is no other difeafe than the cataract.

Obfervant of approaching day.

At firft faint gleaming in the dappled Ball. Ihamfoti.

To fhine.

2.

On each hand the gulhing waters play,
And down the rough cafcade white dalhing fail,
Os gleam in lengthen'd viftas through the trees.
7bc-mftm.

Glek'my. adj. [from gleam.]

In brazen arms, that caft igleamy ray.
Swift through the town the warrior lends his way.
Pope,

French; glaif, a
A broad fword ; a fal-

[glaive,

hook, Wellh.J
chion.

Two hundred Creeks came next in fight well tiy'd,
Not furely arm'd in lieel or iron flrong.
But each a glave hath pendant by his fide. Fairfax.
When zeal with aged clubs and glaves,
Gave chace to rockets and white itaves. Hudiirat.
To Glaver. <v. n, [g'ave, Wellh, flat-

tery ; ^lipan, Saxon, to flatter.

To GLEAN,

-v. a.
[glaner, French,
Skinner thinks, from granum, Lat.]

veft leave behind.

She came and gleaned in the field after the reaperc.

Ruib ii.
Cheap conqueft for his following friends remain 'dj

He reap'd the field, and they but only glean'd.

to

Dryden.

A low word.

The precept of not gathering their land clean, but

Kingdoms have their dillempers, intermilTions,
and paroxyfms, as ivell as natural bodies ; and a
is

as dangerous as

that fomething Ihould be left to the poor to glean,
was a fecondary offering 10 God himfelf.
Nel/on,
She went, by hard neceflity compcll'd.
To glean Patemon's fields.
Tbomjon's Autumn

a wheedling

L' EJl range.

priell, or a flattering phyfician.

ToGlaze. 1-. a. [Taglafs, only accidentally

To gather any thing thinly fcattered.

2.

varied.]

^ much

To furnifti with windows of glafs.

1.

-

To cover with glaft, as potters do their
earthen ware;

[from the French gldife

45.

argilla.]

But Argive chiefs, and Agamemnon's train,

3. To overlay with fomething (hining and

When his refulgent arms flalh'd through the (Iiady
plain.

pellucid.

Fled from his well-known face with wonted fear; "I
As when his thund'ring fword and poin
linted fpear
|
Drove headlong to their (hips, and gle.,
glean'd the

Sorrow's eye, glax'd with brining tears.
Divides one thing entire to many objects. Sbakefp.
The reafon of one man operates on that uf
another in all true oratory ; wherein though with
other ornaments he may glaze and brandilh the
wcjpons, yet is it found reafon that carries the
ftroke home.
Cre^v'i Cofnt. Sac.
White, with other ftrong colours, with which we
paint that which we intend to rtaxe, are the life,
the fpirit, and the luftre of it.
Styden's Dufrrjnoy.

Gla'zier. «. /. [corrupted from glafier,
or glajjier, of glafs.]
to

Gather

as ftom occafions you nay glean.
If aught, to us unknown, afflifts him thus.
SbtJt.
That goodnefs
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one,
Into yourown hands, CarJ'nal, by extortion. Stall.
They gleaned o{ them in the highways five thout
fand men.
jfi'dges, ix.

Let there be two delicate cabinets daintily paved,
richly hanged, and glaxed with cryllalline glafs.
Bacon's Effays.
2.

as

To gather what the gatherers of the har-

1.

It isftill

To flatter;

retained in Scotland.]

Flufliing;

darting fudden corufcations of light.

Sharp.

Glave. n.f.

Pope's St. Cetilit.

[from the noun.]
To fliine with fudden corufcation.
-v. «.

The meek-ey'd morn appears, mother of dews.

commonly

underftood by fufFufion.

wheedle.

n\m gleam the flacks are feen.

And floating fotelb paint the waves with green.

[yXccuicwiJM; glaucome,

Fr.]
fault in the eye, which changes
the cryftalline humour into a greyifh colour, without detriment of fight, and

glavering council

fells glafs.

J,

n.f.

Milton's Paradi/e LJt.

As I bent down to look juft oppofite,

A Ihapc within the wat'iy glean appear'd.

To Gluam.

GlauCo'ma.

Shakefp,

The glaffgrindert complain of the trouble they

His traveil'd fteps.

Miller.

iCla'ssgrinder. n.f, [gla/i and grinder.]
One whofe trade is to polilh and grind
glafs.

Of dawning light turn'd thitherward in hafte

Bnnun.

Thjs fpecies of thorn produces fome bunches of
flowers in Winter, and flowers again in the Spring.

Sfafir.

At lift a gleam

Who bred

Medlar,

and gazing,']

Finical ; often contemplating himfelf in
a mirrour.

Alotjg the banks of the Aufoaiaa fticam.

The hoary frolh that fall on Winter's head ? Sandys.
The glajjy deep.
Dryden's ^n.
Glastonbury y/torw. n.f. A fpecies of

Locke.

gination.

in fraoothnefs ox

Sbakfpeare.
The magnet attrafteth the (hining or glaffy
powder brought from the Indies, ufually employed in

n, /, \gla/i anA furnace,']

A furnace in which glafs is made by

G L E
And conquerors bedecked with his green,

luftre, or brittlcncfs.
Man ! proud man
Drcft in a little brief authority,
Moll ignorant of what he's moft alTur'd
His gU'JJy eflence; like an angry ape,
Plays fucli fantadick tricks bet'ore high heav'n.
As make the angeli weep. Sbak. MeaJ.far MtaJ,
There is a willow grows aflant a brook.
That ihows his hoar leaves in the gl<\l[y ftream.

for this fecond lining

To fee as in a glafs; to reprefent as in

,1.

RefcmbSng glafs, as

2.

routed rear,

Glean, n.f. [from the verb.]

make glals windows.

Other inanu-

ItUo r:tbbets the feveral panes of glalTwork are fcf,
Mcxon's Meet. Ex.
anU faftened by the ql.iT^ler.
The dext'rous glazier ftrong returns the bound.
Gay.
And jingling laOics on the pcnthoufe found.
And then, without the aid of neighbour's art,
Pcrform'd the carpenter's aai glazier'i part, tiarie.

GLEAM, n.f. [jehoma, Saxon.] Sudden
(hoot of light ; luftre; brightnefs.
Then was the fair DoJonian tree far feen
Upsa fevea bills to Iprcad his gladfomc glitm

Collettioo

made laborioufly by flow degrees.

One whofe trade is

faiflurers of glafs are otherwife named.

f
Drj
del
j^n. J
^ den's

In the knowledge of bodies we mull be content
lo glean vhit we can from particular experiments;
flute we cannot, from a difcovery of their real effences, grafp at a time whole llieavcs, and in bundles
comprehend the natiu-e and properties of whol*
fpecies together.
Lockt.

Plains, meads, and orchards all the day he plies;

The gleans of yellow thyme dillend his thighs
He fpoils the faftron.
Dryden's l^irgil,
Gle'aner. n.f. [from glean.]
1

One who gathers after the reapers.
For ftill the world prevail'd, and its dread laugbt

Which fcarce the firm philolopher can fcorn.
Should his heart own a gleaner in the field. Thomf.
2.

One who gathers any thing flowly and
laborioufly.

An ordinary coSee-lyufe gleaner of the city is la
anutt ftaltfiaan,

Lctkr.

Gle'anikc.

OGit I
,ofgJ?anJDg, or thing gleiwed.

,

:

^S"<*^=

,

,

a$ the ^/f*irt//;_g ol'^rapes when

-

-

.

,,

—

J
ifone

:-

.i

;

to 'he

Up-

fies to

*"

^£hyJcn.
,

Sleeptng vegetables fie,
•''
TVII the glad fummon* of i^g'enial ray
faWiidsfhe^f', andc*lis tfce»«outt« day.
•
-

nue of an ecclefiaftical benefice.
The ordinary living or revenue of a patfoffagc is)
of three foru: the one in

land, commooly called'
in lyihe, wliicb h a fet pan of,
our goods rendered to God j the third, in other
offering* btfteued upon God and kis church

1'hcglt^ ; another

.

A

r

r

by the
Sfriman.

Gh'bous.

adj.

[from glebt.]

DW.
Turfy;

per-

haps in the following paffaje fat or fruitfuJ, if it has indeed any nieaniag.
:M

."'^J-

He trembl'd every limb, and felt a fmart Mi/teir

Itfemarr.

As il cold lUel had ^//Va/ tlirough his heart.

A vatlt'}-; a

[g/eM>r, Erfe.]

G^

;

to be

ffcmpt.
She marcheih home, and by hertaket the

Liquid bodies have nothing to fuftoin
their pans,
nor any thing to cement ihemj the
pars being
glib ini tominually in moli-in, fiU
off from one
another, which way foever griviiy inclines
ihem.
/'•
Tj^rr^y^

glib as a birdcatchtr'i gin.
,,

[from jlopan, Saxon, to
glow.] A hot glowing coaJ, A
provincial
and obfolete word.

Gay

•

'

;

I

11
1

."";.>••

Avkiliut.

j

ct

Gl/ke

.

^^

'

.

Now CuiThislhoplrom rubbifii

,'

Three genuine (oines of Swift's rci:.
And then, to maUe them pafs the ^/,7,;?,,..
^
Revis'd byTibbald, More, and Cibber.
£vlfr.
Be fuie he's a tine fpoken maiii
,.
Do but he«i on the clergy how gZ/i'lii^^oojucran.
.

,

,

Spcnfer't Pa/lcral

"•/ W'S', Saxon. 'See Gx.e'ek~1
i a fcofF; a flout.
Not now in

A fncer
zi
^

ther in well founding Eiielilli.

Where', the baftari's bmves, and
Charlei his

7f GI.VMMFR. ,..
nifh,

glowJ
I.

to

ihine;

^..

[^W,%i-

glimm, Dutch,

to

.

To (Kine Tajntly.
.Tie Well yet g/immtr,

^A fame ftnska of

.

Oi.iE. n.f.
The Irifl. hw*' ftom :rtie Sn^tMjili'Hji^itM an*
1«I>{

Therewith my foul was (Iiarply gride,
^Such wounds loon wa«n wider.

Shai.Juare;. j^7*, l^/

wu never fo much g/ii nonfenfe »«t lace.

that

The glaunce into the heart did
glidef
Hey ho the glider;

ufe

here

Sk<,hfpe.re'/Asyc« llkeh.
[(torn glide.] One

glides.

do t before 1 Ipeak.

,

When erery thing doth make a g/ti/u/ boall >

GlIder. n./.

voluble.
;
want that glib and oily art

I

My lovely .Aaron, wherefore kok'ft thou fad.

Gleek. a./. [5h3j«, Saxon.] Mufick

,

Smooth

2.

1

«. /.

—

iijpc,
:llpt as
t

itfelf,

And with indented glidti did (lip away
Into a bulh.

Habbakkuk brol/'ght him a' In
compadlv twilled together with j

'

£achbadey.beaduiit»xt, and day-light free.

Who, with her head nimble in threats,
The opening of his mouth but fiiddenly,approicH'J

Seeing Orlando, it unlink'd

Smooth; flippery; to formed as
eafily muvedv

taiijtQtitn,
,,
,
Many wayfarers
malce themfelwi ^/«, by veKing
the inhabitant*; who again foreilow not
to baigne
them with perfume.
Carrta.
Is Blouzeliiida dead ? Farewell
my gUt I

att

About his neck

G

with forae mixture of irony and conknight.

.

A green and gilded fnake had wreath'd itfelf.

GDB. aJi. [from MI&-: ^Skinner.]
1.

n rodent

rr
LiDE. »./ [from
the verb.] Lapfe:
or manner of pafling fiVioothly.

animals in boiling wattfry anddrying
the
See
lite'.

gelly,

OrjJen's Fables-.

Atl.l,L L ,,
All
things are beheld
as in a hafty motion, where
the objeOj only glije belore the
eye and difappear.

,

ment

Vot. I,

5A<^?/5>«r.-r
'
itf'^fl^!^
^lll
Shoals
of filh, with
fins and Ihining fcaks,
(jlije under the green wave.

.M

n. /.

°

If one of mean affairs

CymMl^

date ; a depreflion between two hills.
From me his madding mind isttart.

GLEE. «./. f Jlijje, Saxon.] Joy; itierri-

muucian.

Drjidtr,
To move fwiftly and fraoothly along

May plod it in a week, why may not I

Ichory;

[''^*-.f''«-J

°^''.

Ye glijing ghbns, permit me to relate
The myftick wonders of your filent ftate.

fanious

««11.pting.

No happinefs is now lefcrved for me.
Cay.
The poor man then was rich, and liv'd with gin-

divides.

To pafs on Without change of ftep.

.

.

'•

GLE'eri-L. adj. [g/ff and full.]
merry cheerful. Not ufed.

W^here ftray the Mufes, in what lawn
ot grove f
In thofe fair helds where facred

Or elfe where Cam his winding valea

'he

t»t,Ei».

Whom ail the people follow with great girt,

-

DryJeW

?/;d'f.

Juft before the confines of the wood,

them a bafon.

Gleijb. »./ [jlioajlibe, Saxon,] A kind
And wooes the widow's daughter of the glen.
of hawk.
Spenfer.
jr^
Ye IhaU not eat the gltje, the kiw, aad cbe vul. Uf.Ew. n.f. [glute-it, Latin.] A vifcous
*""•
cement made by- diffolving the fkins of
£><•.,.

Olbed.

In double ftream, the briny waters

flelji lofe its ruddinefs, and
llw mattir
change to be thin and g/eety, you inay
fufpe'a it

gaycty.
It anciently fignieed
;
mufick played at feafta. It is not now
ufed, except in ludicrous writing,
or

:

""^"'^

I6sglljes,

I

If,

Prior.

.

•

Broke by thejutfing land on citherfide,

Cieyne's Phil. Print.

^^tf-V"^,.UUjily

And choke ch* h«fe< and harvell rf the year.

..

By Eaft, among the dufty vallies glide

The lilver ftteama of Jordan's cryltai flood.

To rijn flowly,

r.

ihy malignant feeds
la an ill hour, and by a fatal hand
Sadly diffus'd o'er virtiie'sg/fiy land.

_

^'' '^^'

^^'**"'

To flow gently and filently.

'

the bone: this not only bled, but
a /cw drops.
ififtmM.

bCTBg hollow, aflbtd

Perniciotia fljtt'ry I

With rising pride amidit the com appear,

*' "•

Sch

globe, and
by this concuffinn are condenfed, and fo glen
down
the caverns of thefe mountains,
whofe inner patts,

Tur/y.

,

moving!

('overnmem (!ftbe%fiiue.

..<w

fr-^ <^T

hit againft the' mountainous places
of the

,

^
Glb'bv. adj. [froni^i^.]

needs not fo much as Oie Heniuie
kS j
and by .ccefs of humours ac^uire.4
glKneA
(o«,tTie more to fj<;ilitate its

Joint,

are earned

Aj/iji', Parergorr.'
Many paolhcs have not an inch oigltit. Stulft.
.,

•

Vapours' raifca by' the fvn make
clouds, which
up and down fhe atmofph^re, 'tin they

u a fitebold, cannot be tned in a Ipintual court.
.,

A polilh'd ice-like glibnefs doth enfold

.

W

^''^•'<-><*«'»t of the tongue

-,..

incifion into It to

g

fto'^™'"'^'"'« f^coil at an
obfcenity.

The rock.
Chapman' sOJ^ffiy.
Ihe tongue 13 the mod r^dy for motion
iTanv
member,

m/em^n's Stflg.
T» GlBej.^ h. n. [froni the noun,]
1^^ To .d'ip"<3r ooze with a tl»in fanious liquour.
,,
His thumb being inflamed aad fwelledr I n»>d«
an
2.

,

trcfpaftdoMon a patlbn'j f/f^lan4, whish

LM/"'.

ilipperinefs.

A j&nious ooae; a thinichor
'

_,

Smoothly;

glib.}

./..
Gu'6NEss.».y;
[from^//^,] Smoothiiefs

A hard dry efchar, withwrt either liriatter or glerr.

_

,',v J

t^

running froB» a. fore.
Garib.

[ftoHj

dojctllidegy/i/ymtoadetraaion.

know not the oipginal notion

Tun foftly.]

2. Tlie land poflefled as a part of the reve-

•^7''-

?°

GLEET, «. /._ [It is written by Sii»»er
gllti. xna^mti from jhban,
Saxon, to

C.-eat heats will fblhiw, and large crops otrmin.

'

1

adni.

,

Stik.ffiarr

volubly.
/
Many who ,TOuld ftartle at «n oath, whofe

Bend ««bhoiit>teel, and hanitng/mtt>ff
arittoor?
Acknowledge Vulcan's Sid.
Pfhr.

If jd'rous blooms the bearing brjnchc! lid,
Th- g/eie will anfwer to the fylvan reigp,

3

OUBLT

Thofe who labAUr
The fweaty forge, who edge the crooked fcytlie.

Millhn.

Mark well the flow'ring almonds in the wood ;

.,

Should not produce fair iffue.

:

•

'

,.

Shakejp.

of this word it may be of the fatne race
with gla^ or with gleam. I have not
jremarked it in any other place,

Of raok and mellow ^/r/».
Drmytort.'
Fertile of com the gUie of oD. and wine,
With herds the pailures thronj^d, with /Jocks ijie

geia them' all: fol:rteentheyaall,»if
fee,
coheirs,

111

fool or fpend time idly, with fome-

ipoljfh.

The grifly garlands loveis, aiid oftattir'd wiAiflowiets!

'

To bring falfe gencr.itions ; they are

it this gen-

giallirt^

"Va

"; t"*.

,

And I had rahstglii mykli, thail they

thing of mimickry or drollery.
7» Glien. -v, n. To fhine with, heat 6r

This, like the moory plots, delighti in fcdgy
bowers.

[fro* the adjedyy'e.l

daftratc.

In Scotland it is ftill retained, and figni-

2.

\^>«/^»>rfr^W.

loijhis.'v. a,

to gibe; to droll upon.-, •'
'lean ;/,-,*• lipoAoccalion.
hak^A.

have feen j-oliTf /«riwrpi or
tleman twice or thi ice.
-

I./furf; foil; groond.

;
^

_g«ifing them;

•.

I

Atterbury.

'i

hills-

Hhait/p.

[jlijman, in Saxon, .js

'

common fimity, aad bai't. ^ fight

GLEBE. «./ [f/fi«, Larin.]

:

a.

I

hanBiDgdbWftow their eyes, and Woiidfoufly
d.^

Tofneer;

1.

pjrteJ out of the incomes of it, as the-^br Jews
had to gather tlteg/mimgs of the rich man's harvo'd.

.'

will give ynu the minftrel.

a miroick or adroil.J

BJik.
of the

..

The orphan an J ?How
" -fkiik

-^

'--

I

TpQi^it^, Vi

There Ihall ^e ai the Oiaking o£ itwjlive-tf«e,,and

Cn

I

ik'niyK^UwiB ym »j«e ui.'e—!-No uHoney, »ut the

g'-h; wluch ii a thJcll cwMlbu^.aihatr

1 he trutli appears, fo naked on my fide,
I hat any purblind eye
may find it out

—And on my fide it 15 fo well appaiel'd:
So clear, lo Ihining, and fo

evident,

Ihat u will glimmer throujii

„
'•^
,

a Wind man's eye.
Sibaktfpeare,

for

G LI
,

The facrcd influence
Of light appears, and from the walls of He»»'n

What (houtd I do
6,

Dryden.
No^//w/yVot godlike liberty rcmain'd.
The exhibition of a faint refemblance.
No man hath a virtue that be has not a glimffe of.

"'uU

The tifing motion of an infant ray,

German.]

Glo'card" ff. /.
worm.

Tofliine; to fparkle with light.
The bleating kind
With looks of dumb defpair.

To

Dutch.]

glifleren,

'

be

to

When rofy morn!ngg//M»r<T-'i/ o'er the dales.
Pafe.
He drove to pafture all the lufty males.

To be perceived imperfeftly ; to appear
faintly.

On the way the baggage poll-boy, who had been at
IVollon.
Court, got a g/lmmrrlrrg whd they were.
The Pagan piieflhood was always in the drlilds;
lewifli
glimmtrtng
of
the
perceivable
there
was
a
and
Swift.
titef in it, though much corrupted.

Sfcnfer.
'Tis better to bf Jowly born.
And range withhumbleitvcrs in content.
Then to be perk'd up in a gliflerlng grief.
And wear a golden (orrow.
Shakeffeare,
The golden fun
Gallops tliei'odjack in his ^/jjj'r/wf coacb.
,';i
1';; 1:
Shakifftare.
•
Sbkkiffrate.
All that glifiifa is not goli
.

'

Where God declares his intention to give dosninion, he meant that he would make a fpecies of
creatures that (hould have dominion ovtf the other
hotke.
creatures of this terrellrial ghie.
,

.

A fpheie in wliich the various regions

3.

i

of the earth are geographically depided,
or in which the cOnftellations are laid

'.

B-nJonfon.

Elfe that g///?fr'</ in Whitehall.

When the fun (hone upon the^ihields of gold and

Gli'mwer. «./. [from the verb.]

•
!

down according to their places in the Iky.

'

I.

Faint fplendour ;

a.

A kinj of foflil.

like lamps of fire,

The lelTer maffes that art lodged in fparry and
ftony bodies, difperfedly, from their (hining and
glimmering, were an inducement to the writers of
foffils to give thofe bodies the name of mica and
H'cfO^-uiard on FoJJils.

glimmer.

Stones which are "compofed of plates, that are ge-

and tiiat are flexible and
talc, catlilver, or^/i/wBcr, of which there

-

°

Gli'ster. n.f. [Properiy written clyjier,
from xAti^nr.] See Clyster. It is written
wrong even by Bn'wn,

Now

His lordlhip's premier minifter;
And who, in all profound atfairs.

are three forts, the yellow or golden, the white or
ffootiwurii
filwry, and the black.

/.

[glimmin,

Dutch,

ing daily urttb the bowels, extimulates' thofe parts,
Broivn,
and excites them unto expulfion. ''
'

Such vail room in nature,
Onlytolhine, yet fcarce to contribute
Each orb aglimffe of light, corvey'd fo far
Down to this habitable, which returns
Light back to them.
A^/'''
Tliouf.inds of things, which now 'either wholly
efcape our apprehcnfions, or wnich our (hort-fighteJ
reafon having got fome faint g/im/yi- of, we, in the
'

.

To Gli't^ EH. v. n, [Tlirinian, Saxoij.]
1.

A quick flafhing light.-

2,

My
My

My pride ftruck.out new fpangles ot her own.

blade':

•

There no it^f glimffe of the fun's lovely face

;."

Cavil ly.

2.

To

On the one hand fet the molt glittering teinptaand on the other the difmal effefls

Decay of Piety.
of it.
In glltt'rlxg fcenes, o'er her own heart fevere
finccre.
Toui:g.
In crowds colleiled ; and in courts

Not fatiiti'd with life, ^f.aid of death,

From now, irom inllant now, great fire, difpcl

1

I

hear the tread of nimble feet

Hartiiig this way, and now by glimpje difcern
Milton.
llhuriel, and Zephon, through the Ihade.

Sometimes God punilhethexemplarily inthis world,
that we jnight have a talle or glimffe of his prcfcnt
Haleivill.
judice.
man ufed to fuch fort of relieflions fees as much
at anegliiK/fe as would require a long difcourfe to lay
before another, and BUkc out in one entire and gra-

A

dual deduflion.

Locke.

Milton.

.iway this

meafure from our drefs

and

habits, and all is turned into fuch paint and ^//V/fr,
and ridiculous ornaments, as are a real (hame to the
.•

Laiv.

A
Shining; fparkling.
participle ufcd by Chaucer and the old

Gli'tterand.

Engli(h poets.

This participial termina-

tion is rtill retained in Scotland.

Gli'tteringly.

at/'v,

[from glitter.^

With'fhining luftre.
'TaGLOAR, T. a. [gloeren, Dutch.]
Skinner.
1. 'fofquinl; to look alkew.
2. In .Scotland, to dare : as •what a gloarand ^uean.

Amaranth,

or

everlafling fitrwer.

n.f. \amaranthoides.\ a flower.
Miller.
,
kind of flower.
Globe Dflj^. n. f.
Globe Fifk. n.f. A kind of orbicular fifh.
Globe Rammctdus. n, f. \helleboro-ranun;

i,

A

culu:.'\

A plant.

Miller.

Globe Thifile. n.f. \carduut oriicu.'atus.] A
Miller.

plant.

GLOBO'SE. adj.

[glohofus Latin.]

Sphe^

rical; round.
Regions, to which
All thy dominion, Adam, is no more
Than. what this garden is to all the eaith,
And all the fca ; from one entire globofe
Milton's Paradlfe hofl.
Stretch'd into longitude.

Then formed the moon
Ghbcfc, andev'ry magnitude of (lar~.

Globo'sity. n.f.

\iiciXR globBfe.'\

Milton.

Sphe-

fphericalnefs.
Why the lame eclipfe of the fun, which is feen
to ihem that live more eaftcrly, when the fun is elericity ;

to

Flourifh not too much upon the g/iV/er of fortune,
for fear there (hould be too much alloy in it.
Collier on Pride.

wearei.

Prior.

A Ihort tranfitory view.
O friends

Was left him, or hU'c'glitta:

Take

haply be thy will that i Ihould know
Ctimffe ot delight, or paufe from aniious woe ;

it

Globe

vated

Clad

With what permilTive glory (ince his fall

DrjiJeit,
Gtac'd ti.r the litile time he has to live.
4.- Short fleeting enjoyment.
If while this wxaried flc(h draws fleeting breath.

j.

Luftre;

bright ftiow ; fplendour.

If f, cilellia! (ire, in aught

Have ferv'd thy will, or g.-atilie'd thy thought,
OnfgJimffe bf glory to my ilTue give ;

The clouds that prefs my foul. ~

'

Gli'ttf.r. k./ [from the verb.]

Strikes through the foiid darknefsof the place.

,

'

Granville.
and the rebels fled._
be fpecious ; to be ftriking.

It did but glitter,

tions to difcard,

Drjdrn.

TranCtory luftre.

to exhibit luftre ; to gleam.
are more refplendent than the like
plates of brafs, and fo is the glittering ol a blade.
;

glolTes

Scafte Kad'ft thbu'trme t' unflicath thy con^u'ring

Light as the lightning glimffe they ran. Millcii.
thoughtlefs youth was wing'd with vaindeiires;
Manhood, long milled by wand'ring fires.
Follow 'dfalfc lights; and when lhcir^//«f;>/f was gone.

34

,

Bacon's Pbyf. Rtm,
Before thebattle joins from far
The field yagliiters with the pomp of war.
Dryden' s Virgil.

Loclie

dark, grope.aftcr.

To (hine
Sfeei

'

Mllion.

,..-

Choler is the
whereby nature escludeih another ; which, defcend-

A weak faint light.

Him round

A globe of fiery fcraphim inclos'd,
With bright imblatoning, and horrent arms.

Szulft,
natural glider, or one excretion

to

A body of foldiers drawn into a circle.

4.
'

Is held as nc^jiful as his glifler.

glow.]
1.

Thefe are the liars.
But raife thy thought from fenfe, nor think to find
Creerh.
Such figures as are in the gUbcs deiign'd.

Boyle,

enters Bulh with new (late airs,

Cleaveland.

Interprets heaven's phyiiognomy.

were of apleafant rtdifli colour, andgV//?fr«/prettily.

elaftick:

».

The Aftrologer who fpells the liars,
Midakes his globe, and in her brighter eye

It conlilled not of rubies, yet the fmall pieces of it

rerally plain and parallel,

Glimfse.

and (hined
\ Muc.s\.'i^.\

brafs, the moiialainsg/!//?<-«i/ therewith,

weak light.

The terraqueous ball.

The youth, whofe fortune the \i& gloie obey'd,
Finding his royalenemy bctray'd.
Slefney.
Wept at his fall.

'

Of th^ court to-day fhan all

gloius,

:

2.,

-

You were more the eye. and talk

French ;

[gloie,

A fphere ; a ball ; a round body a body
of which every part of the furface is at
the fame dittance from the centre.

I.

'

The wars flame mod in Summer, and the helmets

'

a. /.

Latin.]

glijlei- brig)«ert in the fajrelt funfliiiie.

Gays Trivia,

Formed
fphcrot-

GLOBE,

German;

fhine ;

Dright.

Prhr.

[from gUif.]

inlhapcofa globe; fpncrical;
dical.

Ricbarjfn's Pamela,
[gliltait,

71,

A glow-

[froai gJew.]

Gi.o'battd, aJJ.

Tbomffon's tVintcr.

The ladies eyts gli^ened with plealure.

Shot glimmering^ through the cloud, and promis'd

s.

,

[gliitan,

«.

To

be ignorantly written for g!oar.'\

caft fide glances as a timorous lover.
Teach cvefy grace to fmile in your behalf.
Rove.
And her deluding eyes tagloat for you.

Slalitffrare.

r./

.'

Tb Gt-i'sTENr' 11.

79 Gli'ster. v.

to roll

day.
Oft by the winds, eitinft the (ignal lies ;
Or fmother'd in the g/i'mm'r!«g focket dies.

To GtOiiT4»v."». (This'wdVdl conceive to

whiU here I wasencliain'df

I

Eye the bleak heaven, and next the gltflening earth.

Shoots fariiitothebofomofdimnight
MiUiin'i Paradift Ijifi.
Atiimmcring dawn.
Through ihefe fad (hades this chaos in my foul]

Some feeds of light at length b^an

G LO

TG?L)0

For thtre no twilight of the fun 's dult riy
Cnelry.
Climmirt iifon the pure and native diy.
0(t in gliimaeiiiig bowers anil glaJcs
M''"^i.
He met her.
See'ft thou yon' dreary pU'ni forlorn ihd w|ld.
.
The fHHofdefohiirti, Toidofiight,
Sawwhal the e//w'r<>/7>f of ihcfe livid flames
Miilott's
Varadlje
Laft.
pale
and
dreadful
Calls
f

fix

degrees above the horizon, fliould be feen
wellerly, nhi:n

them that live one degree more

the fun is but live degrees above the horizon, and fo
lower and lower proportionably, 'till at lad it appear

not at all : no accountcan be given, butihe^/oAeyfyr
Ray on tbt Creation.
of the earth.

Glo'bous.

adj.

\globofus, Latin.

When

the accent is intended to be on the laft
ftiould be writtt-a
fyllable, the word
glohcfe, when on the firft _f/oifl«i." I have
transferred hither a paflage of Milton, in

which this rule has been negleded.J Spheround.
Wide overall the plain, and wider far
Than all this globofe earth in plain outfpread j
rical ;

Milton.
Such are the courts of God
The brazen indruments of earth difcharge
Horrible flames, and turpidftreamingclouds;
Large gUbous irons fly, or dreadful hif:>
!

Singeing the air.

Pbitlfs,

Glo'bular.

G L O

Glo'bular. adj. \ghhulus, Latin.] "Hav'

ing the form of a fmall fpherc ; round ;

Want of light;

1.

GWBULA'lUA. ». /.

2. Want of cheerfulnefs

;

glo-

Such a fmall particle of

Latin.]

matter as is of a globular or fpherical
figure ; as the red particles of the blood,

which fwim in a tranfparent ferum, and
are eafily difcovered by the microfcope.
Thefe will attraft one adother when
they come within a due diftance, and
unite like the fpheres of quicklilver.
The hailftones have opaque ghbutii of fiiow in
their centre, to intercept the light within the halo.
Nnaton's Ofiict.
Blood confifts of red glabula, fwimmlng in a thin
ferum: the red ghtuln are elaftick,
and will break ; the veffeh which admit thefroaller
glabult, cannot admit the greater without a difeafe.
Arbutbnot on Alimentt.
liquor called

Glo'bxjlous. aJj. [from globule.]
form of a fmall JTphere round.
The whitencft of fuch globuhus particles

Glo'merate. <v, a. [^/owm, Latin.]

To gather into a ball or fphere. A
filamentous fubftance gathered into a ball
is faid to be glomerated, but difcontinuous

The rainbow confifteth of a glomeralion of fmall
drops,

which cannot

fall

very low.

Glo'merous.

Imperfeft darknefs ; difmalnefs ; obfcu-

Cloudinefs of afpcdt ; heavinefs of mind
fullennefs.

I.

[from the noun.]

To ftiine obfcurcly;

as

This fenfe is not now in

the twilight.
ufe.

tlisgliil'ring armour made

K\\Viit glooming light much like a (bade.

Sfenftr.
Scarcely had Phttbusra 0\e glooming Eaft
Sfen/er.
Yet hameffed his fiery tooted team.

To be cloudy to be dark.
to be fullen.
3. To be melancholy
a.

;

;

dimly ;

Obfcurely ;

without

perfeft

light ; difmally.
2. Sullenly;

Came lagging after.

Addif. Cato.

She muft ftand amongll the firft fervants of God
and be rloriout amongll thofe that have fought the
Datv,
good fignt.

Milton's Argonijlet.
It.

f.

[glorijicalion.

The ad of giving

French, from glorifj.]

If there be nothing fo glorious as doing good, if
there is nothing that makes us fo like to God, then
nothing can be fo glorious in the ufe of our money,

glory.

as to ufe it all in works of love and goodncfs.

enter upon the day with
of you the lad
thankfgiving
night, with the glorijictttion of God for the works of
Taylor.
the creation.

At opening your eyet,
for

To

prefervation

the

GLO'RIFY. v. a.

[glori/er,

Laxu.

with

dark intentions ; not cheerfully.
how gloomily he ksoki i
Sec, he comes
:

DryiUn.
7l!imfon.

No-

Glo'riously. ad'v, [from gloriout.]
bly ; fplendidly ; illuftrioully.

They

French ;

infpire

with

thofe celeltial

flames

which

Dryden,
(hinc (o glorioufly in their works.
Great wits fometimes may glorioufly ofliend.
truecriticks
dare
not
mend.
faults
And rife to

To procurehonour orpraife toone.
Two fuch lilver currents, when they join,
^o gloryfy the banks that bound them in.
Jullice IS their virtue :

Shake/.

Glo'ry.

that alone

Latin.

Makes them fit furc, and glorifies ilie throne.

To pay honour or praife in worihip.

1.

God is glorijifd when

fuch his excellency, above
all tilings, IS with due admiration acknowledged.
Hooker.

n. f.

French;

[gloire,

gloria^''

Among the old poets it was ufed

fometimes as one fyllable, ^/orc .]

Daniel.

2.

2.

Praife paid in adoration.
Glory to God in the higheft.

Luke. ii. 14.

The felicity of heaven prepared for thofe
that pleafe God.

This form and manner of glorifying Cod was not

^

Thou Ihalt guide me with thy counfel, and aftlcr.
Pfai, Ixxiif. 14.
wards receive me into thy glory.
Then enterintog/oi^, and refume
His feat at God's right hand, exalted high
.

begun ; but received long before,
and allcdged at that time as an argument for the
truth.
Hooker.
at that

time

tirft

Good fellow, tell us here the circumftance.
That we for thee mt^ glorify the Lord.
Sbakeff.

Above all names in heav'n.

Duly of Man.
This isthe pcrfcftion of every thing, to attain in
true and proper end
and the end of all thrfe gifts
and endotvinenis, which God hath given us, is to
the
giver.
gUrify
Tilloifon.
3. To praife; to honour ; to extol.

Laiv,

;

defperate in all parts of difobcdience and

rebellious

difpofition, him they fct up and glorify.

Spenfer.

But glorfits his pregnant pot,'
If by the way to him befall.

Some odoriferous thing, or med'cinal.
Donne.
4. To exalt to glory in heaven j to raife
to celclUal beatitude.

Million's I'aradlfe Lofl.

jou to bcfeech and inireaC
God to make any one happy in the higheft enjoyments of his glory to all eternity, and yet be troublcJ
to fee him enjoy the much fmaller gifts of God, in
tliis Ihort and low Hate ol human life.
It is hardly polTiWc lor

All nations fkiW gUrify thy name.
Pf. Ixjxvi. 9.
Our bodies with whivh the apollle commands us
Xogkrify God, as well a with out fouls.

No chymilt yet thcelixii got,

with cloudy afpeft ;

CItomilj retir'd the fpider livcc.

Prior.

Let us remember we are Cato's friends.

And ail like men who claim that glorious title.

Whomfocver they find lobe mofl liccnliousof life,

Gloo'mily. adv. [from gloomy.^
1.

He BOW defends the caufe that once was thine.

As Ifuppofe, toward your OBce ^/oyiV friend.
My fon, now captivate, hither hath informd
Your younger Icei, while mine call back with age

1.

gloom.
Milton' t Paradift LtJI.
For that celeftial light ?
The llill night, not now, as ere men fell,
Wholefome, and cool, and mild ; but with black air
Accompany'd; with damps, and dreadful ^/c^n.
Milton,
Now warm in love, now with'ring in thy bloom.
Pope.
Loft in a convent's folitaryg/tf&w.

To Gloom, f. «

Illuftrious ;

Old refped.

Milte*.
Teach light to counterfeit 4 g/xm.
This the feat.
That we rauft change for heav'n ? This mournful

2.

Nelfoii.

Impartial juftice holds herequal fcales,
'Till ftronger virtue does the weight incline ;
If over thee thy glorious foe prevails,

glcrifico, Latin.]

rity ; defeft of light.
Glowing embers through the roomi

It is fre-

He is glorious in refpeft of the brightnefs and
fplen^Bprofhis celeftial body ftill made more glorious
and majellick by the authority which his father
hath committed to him of the univerfal Judge.

honourable ; decorated with glory; digNot in ufe.
nified with honours.

Latin.]

Baconi

Noble; illuftrious; excellent.

quently ufed by theological writers, to
exprefs the brightnefs of triumphant
fanftity rewarded in heaven.
Let them know that thou art Lord, the only God,
Dan. iii. zz.
and glorious over the whole world.

melancholy j cloudy of look ;

GloRIFICa'tion.

for all bravery (fands upon comparifons.

2.

heavy of heart.

Gathered into a ball or fphcre, as a ball
uf thread.
GLOOM. II. /. [ilomnnj, Saxon,] twilight.
1.

Boaftful ; proud ; haughty ; oftentatious.
Otoriosis followers, who make thcmfelves as trumpets of the commendation of thofe they follow, taint
Bacon.
bufinefs for want of fccrecy.
They that are glorious muft needs be fa&ious ; for

1.

Herfclfa fairer flow'r, by^/oo»yDis
Milton's ParaJife Ijifl.
Was gather'd.

Glo'ried. adj. [from glory.]

[glorh/us, Lztin-^glo-

jv>«:^.. French.]

al-

That tair field

Sullen ;

PearfoK,

.

Ajliffe's Parergon.

,

GLO'RIOUS. adj.

Of Enna, where Proferpine gathering flowers,

3.

.

other, refome its body again in a glorified manner.

Dark of Complexion.

but from the air that is
Bacon.

[glomen/us,

adj.

'

Already in f an, though hid in gkoirtlejl fhade.
Milton's Paradift Loft,
To forrowabandon'd.
Deep in a cavern dwells the drowfy god,
Whofe gloomy manfion nor the riling fun.
Nor fetting vifits, nor ths lightfomc noon.
Dryden's Fables.
The furface of the earth is clearer or gloomier, juft
Pife.
as the fun is bright or more oveicaft.

particles are cmglobatei.

A body formed into a ball.

•

The foulybeiog immortal, ,will, atibme time 'or

Thefe were from without

2.

memtiers of the church remaining, being

Ihali the whole church be truly and perfedlly holy.

The growing mifesies, which Adam faw

Glomera'tion. «r. /. \gkmeraiia, Latin.]
1. The aft of forming into a ball or fpherc.
2.

The

peTie£lly fandlified, ITi-iU be c'crwM'i glotifed ; thci^

'

Gi.oo'uY. adj. [ixom gloom.']
imperfeftly illuminated;
1. Obfcure ;
moft 'dark, difraal for want of light.

In
proBoylt.

and laughter, as
AJJifan.

.

Rom, viii.'jo.

melancholy.^;

of fuch little incitements to mirth
are apt to difperfe melancholy.

;

ceeds from the air included in the froth.

;

Whom he juilified, them he kMogloriJitd.

of

Negleil {^xer.ih gloominefs upon their huraoor, and
makes them grow lullenand inconveifiblc.
CcilUer cf the Sfli-en.
The ghominefs in which fometimcs the minJs.01
the beft men are involved, very often Hands in need

Miller.

French

[globule,

cloudinefs

;

look; heavinefs of mind

[Latin ; glohulaire.

A flofculous flower.

GL'OBULE. n. f.

Tfl

JO. xiii,j^2.

light; difmalnefs.

The figure of the atoms of all vifiblc fluids feemsth
to be globular, there being no other figure fo wxll
Crevi.
fitted to the making o. .iuidity.

bulus,

"im in himfelf and (hall ftr^ightway j/orj/y him.

imperfeft

obfcurity ;

him, God (hall alio glorify

If God be glorified in

Glod'miness. »./. [ftomglai>mj.']

fpherical.

French.]

G'\. O

'^G'L'O

^

3.

Honour;

praife; fame;

renown; cele-

brity.
Sidney.

Think it noglory to fwell in tyranny.
Glory is like a circle in the water,

Whichnevcr ceafeth to enlarge iifelf,
it difpeife to nought.
'Till by broad fpreading
'^

Sbak.H.Vl.
And with that word and warning foon was dight.
Each (bidier longing for near coming gloiy,
FaiifiK.
Ifracl's bright fceptre far lefs glory brings.

There have been fc«t friends en earth than kings.
Cotvley.
5

R4

Ca«

G LO
•

G L O

Caa vrc imagine that neither the imUtjon of pria-

Some mutter at ec^'taif paf^Tagcs therein, by f^t(ln i

CM, orintettft, or gain in private perfoos, oi curiofity

iU glojjit upon the teat, and taking with tb« leu I
h.ind what I ofiir with the riglit
ffouitl. I
Hoy,ll.
I
All this, without 3Lgl' /^ 01 comnvint.
Hecpw^d unriddle in « n

and the defire of knowledge, or the glory of ditco»eries, could ever move them in tliat endlcts time to

try their fortunes upon the fea.
Your fei's Wory 'lis to Ihine unlcnown

Bunui.

Of all applaule, be fondeft ofyour own.

T^ung.

,

in many places he

"^

Dryder.*s ratles^ Preface.

Large as the fields then;
Th^n civil codcswith .ili
I.

'

i-gerfar
_,

1

Frpoi opeaing flues may nreamii{g£/<"'jVx Ilun<^,
And fainci cmWace thee with a love I^c nfine,
•
'
fojK.

.t.'.vji -;:i'

"•••'' mft,.

'

i

(;- iv.T t":'!"* *

^ti/yf-

V-Ywiiire a feflary,
: yoM».|>»lp«ed«^<ift«vers,
.: JI>«'»th*pUin,tH(|h

A circle of rays which furrounds the heads

'Toi.men that unJctlWld, you, Miord» and. vicaku^fi.

offaints in picture.
It is not a converting hut a crowning grace ; fuch

Golden opinions from|all fcjr's <ff pijoplc.

ao one as irradiates, and puts a circle oi ghrji about
Souit.
the head of him upon whom it defccnds.

Which fljould be \yorp DOW intli«i;neiy.efts/«/3.
Shaki/f.

A fmilc plays with afurprifing agrccablenefs in the

The doubt will te whether it will polilh fo well f

tye, breaks out with the brightell dilVinflion, and
like a gim-y upon t)>c (ouoitcnaiice.
''
CoUltr of tbt Af^a.

fits

for

and therefore

(hall they come Ihortly to

an

<*"'fi- «yi-

H

Toung.

'

--..,

unknown to your ears, to which
hath ghry to come unto.

To Glo'ry.

"v.

n.

S^glorior,

all

frelh, with their firft ghfi

worthy fame
Sidney.

To

3. An interpretation

Poor painters oft with filly poets join.

Sidnty.
me notable mifchicf.
They were wont, in the pride of their own pro-

One brings the ftutf, the other (lamps the coin,
Which breeds nought elfe hMgh£es of cectit.,

cine& of that government under whch 1 live.
Addifon*s Frer bolder.
If others mv] glory in their birth, why may not
we, whofo parents were called by Uod to attend on

Aiterinry.
; no one

bun at his alur ?

No one is out of the reach of miifortune
therefore (hoMglory in his profperity.

Hooker, Prsface.

He feems with forged quaint conceit

To fet a gloJ! upon his bad intent.

;

A fcholiaft

word or fcripiure, but forthwith their glojfei upon it
arc the word preached, the fcripturc explained, or
Hooker.

delivered unto us in jcrmons.
If then all fouls, both good and bad, do
With gco'ral voice, that fouls can never die

teach.
;

'Tis not man's flatt'ring gloj', but nature's fpeech,'
D^ie:
Which, like God'iotadcs, can neverhe,

a commentator.

HY.Jt.f. [yTLtKrira and yj aflw'.l
Th^w'ritjrig of commentaries.

Glcssv.

[from
polimed.

aJj.

frnootlily

Shining ;

glo/T-j

There came towards us a perfoo of place ; he had
on him a gown with wide fleevet ; of a kind of water
cainblct, of an excellent azure colour, tar more gloJjl)i
Bacon.
than oucs.

The reft entire
Milton.
Hi^furCoat was a bearlkin on hisback ;
Hrs hair hung long behind, and gl^^ raven black.
Dryden.
Myfelf will fearch our planted grounds at home.
Dryden.
For dowuy peaches and the g:oJ[y plum.

Shone with a gli^y fcurf.

«. /. [slope, Saxon, hloffue,
Danilh, todividc.J Cover of the hand.
They flew about like chaff in the wind ;

I

A wreath of laurel.
My limbs,

Weakcn'd with grief, being now enrag'd with grief».
Are thrice themfelves : hence thcrclore, thou nice
crutch ;

Shakefpean'i Henry IV.
Muft glove this hand.
The next he preys on is her palm.

Dryd.

That alm'ncr of tianfpiring balm

GloVer. «. /.

In parchment then, large as the fields, he draws,

Donne.

To palliate by fpecious expofition or re-

glover's paring knife.

Sbakeff.

It is (till ufed in Scotland.
She lurks inmidil cf all herden, aiul llreaka

fullcn.

I< this theparadife, in defcriptionwhereof fomuch

From out a ghaUly whirlpool all Xiu i\ec)(s,

glojfing and deceiving eloquence hath been fpent f

Where, glov-tiig round her rock, 10 tijh (lie falls.

Hooker's Sermon i.
Do I not reafon wholly on your conduti ?

Cbapnttin.

Clouting with fullen fpightj the fury (hrxik
Her dotiea locks, and blafted with each look.
Garti.

You have the art loghifs the foulcft caufe. Pbilipt.
3. To cmbellilh with fupcrficialluftic.

TV GLOW, <«..». [jlofsfl* Saxon; gke^^en,

The fame ill habits, the faipe follies 100,
Cloji'doiti only with a faint-like fhow,

CleavelanJ.

One whofc

to G1.QVT. v., n, [A Jow word of wJbich I
To pout ; to look,
find no etymology.]

prefentation.

B«t thou, who lately of the coromjaftraitt
Wert one of us, if ftill thou doll retain

[iiomgltn.e.'l

trade is to make or fell gloves.
Does he not wear a great round beard like a

To explain by comment.
AlTurances, big as ^/((/j'</ civil laws.

;

So foft, 'lis air but once rcmov'd ;
Tender as 'twere a jelly g/t>7;'</,

\To Gloss t. a.

z.

To

A fcaly gauntlet now, with joints of fteel,

Prior.

I.

Dryden.

To Glove. 11.0. [from the noun.]

Milton.

French from the
it, [^h/er,

And laughing ^/o/i'*/, that Abta ferv'd fo well.

'

_
Dryden.

While g/»i'« were on his hands, and on his head

'*^

Xhey never hear fcntcnce, which mentioneih the

;

cover as with a glove.

By ptieftly gloffing on the god's commands.
iz. To make fly remarks.
Her equals firft obferv'd her growing leal.

(

Boyle.

Gl-o'ssp(!R A

Thou dciain'ft Btifeis in thy band).

i

Clarijfa.

a comment.

Shakejfeare.

To comment.

\ .

Hanmtr

Afcholium

or common fait-

Glo'ssographer.w./. y^^o-<«andyf«^(«.]

The common glofs

j

Smooth

poliib ; fuper£cial luHre
Their furlaccs had a fmooihnefi and glojpntft
much furpaifing whatever X had oblcrvcd in marine

Forhafte fome left their mafks behind.

TaGlose. "v. a. To Hatter; to collogue.
See 7b Gi.oze.
GLOSS. »./. [yA«rr«; glofe, French ]

A polilher.

Gto'ssmiss. »./. [from^/a2>'.J

Some could not flay itx\x gloves to find.

Of theologians.
•To Gloss, w.
noun.]

become

1

2.

Sidney.

ford.

1

:aul"c his

j

'

Glo!sse8. »./. \gl'iffariitt, LBtin.}
A fcholiaft ; a commentator.

'

is

Si>ake/f.

And oceans break their billows at \u feet,

udge dpcs

-

::k^ judgmcir

but why may not the fame be faiJ of
Therefore, in this re^ieill, the gi'/.
yi//w'j opinion muft be (alfe.
Aylijfe,

j

rti

1 Cor. v. 6.
Your glorying is not good.
Thou haft fccii mount Atlas,
on
its
thunder
hrowi
While ftorms and tempers

>

no part of my fecret meaning to draw you
hereby into hatred, or tO fet upon the face of this
caufe any fairer g/o/i than the naked tnith doth afIt

remained, which was to rate up the very ground and
Hi'yier.
iouodaiion oi popery.
Let them look ihcyg^iy not in mifchief.
Nor build their evils on the graves of great men ;
For then my guiltlcfs blood mull cry againft them.

_.

:

1

GLOVE.

To fill the world with ftrange but vain conceit

ceedings, to g/oyj, that whereas Luther did but blow
*way the rooi, and Zuinglius batter but the walls of
popilh fuperftition, the laft and hardell work of all

Itltaods unmov'd, iudgioriei in its height.
'
AJdi/.Cato.
This title of Freeholder is what I mod glory in,
and what rood efieflually calls to my mind the hap-

fpecipua; a

artfully

fpecious reprefentation. '1 his fenfe feems
to partake of both the former.

boaft in ; to be proud of.
\yiih like judgement g/cry/'^j when he had haphad performed
ened to do a thing well, as when he

1.

upon them.
Addifon'i SfeSfator.

_

Latin.]

;

j;u;c of jud:i

,

office

:

a faint d\mglo/i.
Ciapmaa'i Iliads
Like that of oil.
It was the colour of devotion, giving a luftre to
South.
reverence, and a glofi to humility.
Groves, fields, and meadows, are at any. fcafon
pleafant to look upon ; but never fo much as in the
ojJening of the Spring, wheel they are all new and

Generous pride.
The fuccefs of thofe war* was too notable to be

8.

not

'Bacfn.

"'^'

'

On death-beds feme in confcious ^/^Jifj
Since of the doilor in the mode they die.

,

more rcfplendent than plates of

Weeds that the wind didtoft
The virgins wore the y^utJui woven coats, thatcaft

Pride; boaftfulnefs ; arrogance.
5y thi; v^in glory of men they entered into^ the
world,
end.

&ft\ glojjit are

brafs'.

-

-I

Sy ihea(5?rtioii

,1

.

-

:.,:.": iiWiy^^dgft.
,jr.

3r-'ii:i';>

an evidence
two judges ?•

.V*!."^

'

tator.

att-'j. iPJope.

U

Whole gl(ltering^,_

'

7.

A

fome q^itjr tqglifvt.
-

Aatrr.

JGx.ossa'tor. m./: [^ofatujir it xcndu {torn
gJo/i.]
wntei o^ glolSa ; a comi^an-

In this f««f«JJt foems
to have arxpther dijrrvation ; it has perh^s

Hjj iron coat all
Was i;nJt;rijcalh

^

Sti/lhgjfrer.

.
.

O

a place, it Ijgnified fuch a,on«, ig 'jut dei Jimu/atll^ in the old lUJfarift,^
; and

CAuld add anoihec w^d to tb«^^<i'';;'"

Superficial luftre.

5. Luilre ; brightnefs.
Now llcepiiig flijcks on their foft fleeces lie ;
Pc/tf.
The mopn, fettne in giory, mounts the Iky.

^

(1)

chrum dedicatum

Their r/i^r teach an age toa apt to leai:ii. Dry^<n.
Explaining the text, in ihortj/o^r, was Accy.^fius's
ffaktr an Learni/ig.
method.
•'
Indentures, cov'nants. --•-'-y draw,

i

m

They give the fcandal,»nd the wifedifcernt

,

6.

'

.

A

It

.

gif/tt-

Djyden; P^rf.
V. n. f, [glo^arium^ Latin ; gufdiftionary of oliwuxe
mch'j
«,. liquated Words.
^i^cording to Varro, when dehlnrum was fppl'vlcl

anUoawdry, of which they were not Ruilty.

Solomoni in all huglory, was not arrayed like one
Mait.yi.ig.
ofth«r«.
Treated fo ill chas'd from your Throac,
Keturningt you adorn the town ;
And with a brave reveoge do Ihsw
lyjlrr.
Their\f /jry went and came with' you.
Ariltotle fays that (hould a man under ground converfe with works of art, and be afterwards brought
up into the open day, and fee the fevcrai ghrici of
the heaven and earta< he would pronounce tliem the
AJdifm't SfeHalar.
works of God.

I,

^tUI thou art bound ip vice, and, ftiU a llavc.

hh gloj/is, ini intcrpiclfl my wMii iiuo bia^flicniy

4. Splendour ; magnificence.

.

the freedom which
n
74^ T refurae

,1.

Duteh.]
To be heatedfo as to Ihine without flame.
But

G L O

Gf'L

''

--''

'

Shining heat.

Vehemence of paffion.

Thefcotch..-^ ---

.;

'
.

.

.

.

Glo'wworm. n.f.

Pope,

And 'gins to pale bis inetfe^lual tire.

jUJJ/. Cato.

Gay.

Bacon.
feen; as tjic/un that of igloxvutonn.
The man, -who 6r(l upon the ground
A gLzrTjuorm Ipy'd, (uppoling he had found
A moiing diamond, a breathing ftone
Fur life it had, and like ihofe jewels (hone :
He held it dear, 'till by the fpringingday
Informed, he threw the worthleCi worm aMny.

To exhibit a ftrong bright colour.
With fmile that gh-ui'd
Milton.

Clad in a gov.-n that gl:Vit with Tyrian tays.
Drydcn.

A miXtacmyri,
Drydtn and Ln't 0-Jifu».

To Gloze.

1;.

n. [5le|-an,

do
mens minds and dog their Ipirits ; fink us

debafe

and

flelhly lu(b,

rior things.

tillotfon.

She curb'd a groan, that elfe had come
And pauling, view'd the prefcnt in the tomb:

Then to the heart ador'd devoutly glu'd,
Her lips, and, raifiog it, her fpe^^h renew'd.

Glu'eboiler.
Glu'er.

to pcrilh like an aft.

[A low cant word formed
by corrupting gloom.^ Sullen ; ftubborni/

come

grave.
Some, when they hear a (lory, look glum, and
cry. Well, what then >
Guardian.

Souib.

Now for a glozjfig ('peech,
l?air proieftationt, Ipccious marks of friendfhip.

Piilipi.

To comment.

To

This (hoold bc^/e/r.

erf'

France,

fancy.

1.

You ftrive in vaio

;

Sbakrfp.

To clay

2.

lay thefe^/oz" by.

lovci 's tuc ?

Glo'zer. »./. \itom gloze. 1

Did Shadrach's ztiU my g/nwing breaft infpire

Calm ev'ry thought, iiifpirit ev'ry grace,
C/fW in thy heart, and fmile upon tby face. Pope.
.

His fettled hate, and reconcile his love,

That he may look propitious on our toils,
.^nd hungry graves no more be glutted with our fpoils

Dry den.

No moiT, my friend

gelly ; any vifcous or tenacious matter by

Here let our glutted execution end.
1

Concicmn'd eternal changes to purfue,
the laft, and eager of the new.

'I'ir'd with

on ihe other fide, drink in waters and liijuors
fo that, as it was well laid by one of the ancicnu of
earthly and watery fubltaoccs, one is a glufXa anoBacon's Naunal Hijiory.
ther.
The dricii and mod Iraofparcnt glut ii the belt.

3.

dies,

With piide it mounts, and with revenge it g/ovit.

When crept into aged veins»

.

'

Hlackmorc.

warms us long.

Shadwdl.

To make hot

fo

at to

The flowers of grains, nixed with water, will
Attmbuoi on AlimtnU.
make a fdrt oi glut,

To Glue. -v. a. [from the noun.]
I. To join with a vifcous cemcnti

Milton,,

His faithful heart, a bloody, facritice,.
Tom from his brealt, to glut the tyraot'seyes.

Dfydent

To build the earth did chance materials chufc.
And through the parts cemeiuing glue dilfufc.

and with a fullen heat.

Hope,

To feaft or delight even to fatietj».
With death's carcafeg/»/ the grave.

Moxon.

Lgre (lowiy bunu. and longrcmaitu ;

Drydtn's y£«,

found

The fickle ear foon glutted with the fount},

Water and all liijuon, do hallily receive dry and
more tcrrcflr'al bodies proportionable; and dry bo.

Denbaitt,

What way remove

A flatterer.

a cement.

Pofx.
Amidft Rhodope'sfnows.
So perilh all, whofe breafti ns'er learn'd tog/on
Popf.
For others good, or melt at others woe.

was enough to ^/i^r the
Bacon.

Love breaks friendOiip,
Feed, but not £;/«/ our appetites.

Sidiiey.

which bodies are held one. to another;

He trembles, he gloius,

DrydtK.

beyond fulficiency; to

hearers.

made by boiling the (kins of animals to a

X>efpairing, confounded.

A fire which every windy pallion blows;

to (ill

nify the King and tjueen, as

GLUE. n.f. [glu, J'rench, gluten, Latin,
gittd, Wel(h.] A vifcous body commonly

Prior.

Let the gay confciencc of a life well fpcnt

Lnvit.

;

The amba(rador, making his oration, did fo mag-

2. Specious (how ; glofstlftot ufed.
Precious couches full oft are ihaked with a fever
If then a bodilyevil in a hodiU gloT.e be not hidden.
Shall fuch morning dews be au cafe to the heat of a

Prhr.

To rage or burn as a paflion.

F;«nch

\engloutir,

fate ; to difguft.

Torc'd compliments and formal bows
Will (hew thee juft abcve ncglecl j
The fire with which iliy bver g^om.

To piaifeis always hard.
When real firtoe fires the g/jtu/;if bard.

a.

11.

Latin ; to fwallow ;. y.?ii'^«>.]
1. To fwallow; to devour.
'Till cramm'd and gorg'd, nigh burft
With fuck'd and glutted otTal.
Miltcn,

Flattery; infinuation.

Now to plain dealing

To hide your thoughts front him, who knew too well
The inward g/ettunp of a heart in love.
Addifan't Cala.

GLUT.

glulio,

Which Saiique land the French unjuitly gl^^

To be the realm

One who ce-

Glum. adj.

and then he may go on boldly, beeauCe

blindly, and by miltaking hirnfelf for a lion,

n.j. [from^/r<f.]

ments with glue.

A {ii(c glusLiiig parafite would call his foolhardinefs valour,

One

w.y; [^f/vf and ^»/.]

whofe trade is to make glue.

:

Poft.

With furies furrounded,

to

Milion't Varadife Loft.
So glo^'d the tempter, and his proem tun'd
Into the heart of Eve his words made way. Milian.

2.

hear thee, view thee, gaze o'er all thy charms.

Poft

5. To feel paflion of mind, or aftivity of Gluze. »./. [from the verb.]

To weary tortures, and rejoice in hre.

;

And cafily tianfgrefs.

Pupe,
Atid fair Belinda's lilulTi forever g/otv.
Here dearer ftars^/sic round the frozen pole.

Will fettle into cold refpeft.

Dryien^
I

And round thy phantom ^/». ray clafping arms.

Man will hearken to his gloajng liei,

Fair idcu Sow,
Suikc in the (ketch, or in tlie piclure j/aui. Pofe,
Not the fair fruit that on yon branches gl'i-wi,
With ihit ripe red th' autumnal fun ^ftows.
Poft,
Can move the god;
Each pleafmg Blount (hall endlefa frailes be(low,

Not in ufe.

L'Eftrange,

("enfuality,

down into fenfe, aai glue us to thofe low and infe-

fawn.

Havagi'.

ttiinet ,

Intemperance,

Saxon.]

To flatter; towhecille; to infinuate

1.

I'lom the miiitlid ftrtngih of Ihade and lijht,
my fi?htj
Anewcre-j-u h:« pencil flow,
Such heav':
So warm Willi inc r.n u. ended colours ;/m>,
Addifm.
Amidft the foft variety I'm lolt
tike th' ethereal gh^u'd the green expmle.

a.

work theinfelvcs out.

ffalltr.

Whofered and fiety beamtcaft through your vifage

7o Gi.-ow. "J.

To join; to unite; to invifcate.
Thofe wafps in a honeypot are fcnfual men
plunged in their hi(ts and picafures; and when they
are once glued to them, 'tis a very hard matter to

Sb.iMcfp,

A great li^lit drowneth a fmaller that it cannot be

it

lion ;

3.

The axi flnks TwUily iboougb hil glavung hands.

Like fire in loj5,

for explaining how this may be, fome have
invented hooked atoms, which is begfing the qiief.
and others tell us their bodies arc glued together by reft; that is, by an occcult tjuality, or rather by nothing.
Nnulon'i Opt.

and

A

\ gloio a.a\ ivorm.^

Shalufpearc.
TYic glffuv-'orja Ok\v% the mattin to be near.

Did not his lon^ln fflem
Is the lime I'ultry wiiids and fcoiching heat?

Celeilial rofy red, love', proper hue.

The parts of all h^mogeneal hard bodies, which
fully touch one another, Itick together very (Irongly

And for night-tapers crof^theip waxen thighs.
And light ibcra at the hery glowzi-orm's eyes.

Pcft.

To feel heat of body.

It g/o^tf

Dtrkam.

To hold together.

2.

fmali creeping grub with a luminous tail.
The honey h.igs iteal from the humble bees.

Smiri.

6.

SW:<fp.

be bl':aded with the ornamental, that th: fimple,
grave, and majedii; dignity of Raffaelle could unite
with ihsglovj and buttle of a J^aulo, or Tintoiet, are
totally mutal^cn.
U.eynalds.

iheirnoftrils flows
entraiKj/otui.
Adiiiftn^i Ovi'J,

'

A gltmHUg pleaCuir,

of (Urs, glued to the canvafs over the bead of the
Addifin on Italy,
Moft wounds, if kept ctean, and from the air,
the flelh will glue together with its own native balm.

Such as fuppofc that the great (tile might happily

Shfieks ot woe.

4.

fees in their churches a little tinfel crown, or a circle
figure.

Blufhingin bright diverdties of day.

And yawaing gulpbi with flAmiog venguuce glnu.

3.

much in vogue among the Italians, that one oftea

A waving ^/^T*' his bloomy beds difplay.

How op'ning heav'ns their happy regwDa (how.

fim that g/m/,

The cuftom of crowning the Holy Virgin is fo

3. Brightnefs or vividnefs of colour.
The pal« complcxioti of true kive.
And the red glow of (corn and proud difdain.

'ocompofe

The mctti-

Sb.,i^/p. ilnryVf.

Whofo teacheth a fool is as one that j/»«i6 a pot(herd together.
Ecc/e/. xxn, 7.

1.

2.

To 5«n with vehement heat.

overthrow

More than my body's parting with my foul t
My love and kirglu'd many friends to thee.

Glow. »./. [from the verb.}

Si^krff.
Their offio; upon j. tawny iroDt.
Kuoiguad, wife to the Emperor Henry II. tofliow
her innocency, did take fcveo g/cw/rj frons, one
after another, in her bare hands, and had thereby no
Haie-wiU.
harm.
Not aU parts like, but all alike isfbrm'd.
With radiant light, as rlrwir.r iron with fire.

.

I fear thy

Stood pretty dimpled boy5, like fmiling Cupid?,

'Hifr goodly eyes,

Not wci:l

G L tr
'

With divers coloui'd funs, whofe v/fnd did ic^m
to glow the delicate checks which they did cool.

That o'er the lilcs and murters of the war
\{isa gkiu' J. like pUicd Mjrs, now bend, now Mm

2.

U

On each fide her

Bat fithenc* filence IcSbneth not my fire,
Bijt.told it flames, and hidden it does g/mtr,
Sfenfer.
I will reveal what ye (o rnui-h defire.

,4.

A fylvan f«cne, which, rifing by degrees,
Leads up the eye below, nor gluts the light
With one full profpciS; but iuvites by many.
To view at lalt the whole.
Drjjtiti

To overfill; to load;
He attributes the ill fuccefs of either party to
their f/tf/r/ff^ the market, and retailing too much of

)

a bad conunediiy at »ncc>/

Arbuthnot,

G N A

G L U
To faturate.

5.

Well obferve

The menftruum,

being ilKjdy ^lutlti,

not ai£l povrtrfully ensugh ti> difTolve it.

The rule of not too much, by temperarice taught

Bylt.

In what thou cat'A and drink'ft; fceking from thence
Milton.
Due nourilhment, no gluttonous itW^l.

Glu'ttonouslv.

That which is gorged or fwallowed.

glutton,']

overmuch.

If you pour a glut of water upon a bottle, it receives little of it.
Ben Jonfon's Difco-vnies.

Any thing that fills up a paffage.

4.

from

balfamick mixture, becaufe it is a gluy
Harvey on Con/.
With gluy wax fome new foundations lay
Of virgin combs.
Dryden's Ann. Mirai.
Whatever is the compolition of the vapour let it
have but one quality of being very gluy or vifcous,
and it will mechanically folve all the nhfenoinena of
the grotto.
Addijon.

[gluUneux, French;
Latin.]
Gluy ; vifcous;
a.ij.

tenacious.

Xhecaufc of all

vivification is a gentle and pro-

GLTN.
Erfe;

portionable heat, working upon a gtutinout and
yielding fubfiance ; for the heat doth bring forth
fpirit in that fubllance, and the fubftancc being glu-

and cannot break forth ; the other, that
the matter, being gentle and yielding, is driven
forwards by the motion of the fpirits, after fome
fwelling, into (hape and members.
Bacort.

glyni under the mountain's foot.

».

Shaktff.

Gnarling forrow hath lefs power to bite
The man that mocks at it, and fets it light.

One who indulges himfelf too much in

Fairfax.

Gna'kled.

The Chinefe eat horfefleih at this day, and fome

ailj.

[g'tar, nar, or nurr, is in

Staffordfhire a hard knor of wood

Bacon.

which

boys drive with flicks.] Knotty.
Merciful heav'nl

Thou rather with thy (harp and fulph'rous bolt
Split'll the unwedgahle

Prior.

Ui

Than the foft myrtle.

To Gnash,

'v,

To

a. \knafcken, Dutch.-]

ftrike together;

greedy, covetous, ambitious tradefman,
fay, he only deals in lawful bufincfs.

The feer, who could not yet this wrath alfwage,
Row'd his green eyes, that Iparkl'd with his rage,
And gnajb'd his teeth.
Dryd. Vitg.

that (hould

Imw.

One eager of any thing to excefs.
1

Pf. cxii. 10.

There Ihall be weeping and gnajhing of teeth.

Gluttons in murder, wanton to deftroy.
Their tatal arts fo impiourty employ.
Granville.

Glutton'ise.

rv.

n.

;

[from glutton.]

to be luxurious.

Glu'ttonous. rti^'. [from p'/////o«.] Given
to

exceffive

feeding;
much with food.

dchghted over-

.Mattb.
2.

To

rage even to collifion
to fume ; to growl.

Sbakefpeate.
The exceeding luiuiioufnefs of this j/i<r/e«»t age,
wherein we prefs nature with ovcrwnghty burdens,
and finding her ftrcngth defeflive, we Ijke the work
.lOut of her hands, and commit it to the arilfKial
vfaclp of ftiong wauri.
Raleigh.

viii.

of the teeth

His great iron teeth he ftill did grind.

And grimly gnajb, threatning revenge in vain.
Spenfer.

They gnajbed upon me with their teeth.

When they would fmile and fawn upon his debts.
And uke down ih' inierclt in \.hiugluti'nous maws.

L'Efirangr.

To fret to wafle to corrode.
To pick with the teeth.
J.
4.

;

;

His bones clean ptck'd ;

his very bones they gnavi.

To Gnaw, v, n.

To exercife the teeth.

It

now ufed aftively.

is
I

might well,

cham

that ties

like

me

;

the fpaniel, gnavj upon the
but I Ihould (boner mar ra/

teeth than procure liberty.

Sidney.
See the hell of having a falfe woman : my bed
(hall be abufed, my tolTers ranfacked, my reputation
,^™w« at.
Shakefpeare.
1 thought I faw a thoufaod fearful wrecks,
thoufand men that &iiiti gnav' d upon.
Shakefp. Richard in.

Gna'wer. n,f, [from gnaiu,]

One that

gnaws.

Gno'mon. »./ [ytafkm.] The hand orpin
of a dial.
The gnomon of every dial is fiippofed to reprefent the axis of the world, and therefore the two ends

or extremities

To grind or collide the teeth.
He Ihall g«n/h with his teeth, and melt away.

Ce^v/rji.

To play the glutton

to clalh.

To Gnash, v, n.

,Wiih which rich beauty fealls the ;/u/(i>ff love.

?"«

Gnaicing with my teeth my bonds afunder,
my freedom. Sbakr/p. Comedy of Errours,
Like rotten fruit I fall, worn like a cloth,
Cnazvn into rags by the devouring moth.
Sandys.
A lion, hamper'd in a net, called to a moule to
help him out of the fnare : the moufe gnawed the
I gain'd

A

and g/rar,'ed o»k.
aiaie/p. Meaf.for Meaf_

he would make as good an excufe for himfelf as the

The relt bring home in ftate the happy pair
,To that laft fcene of blifs, and leave ihem there
All thofe free joys infaiiably to prove,

Dryden.

To wear away by biting.

3.

Drydtn.

»./.
French; from
glutio, Latin, to Avallow.]

glutton was to fay in cxcufe of his gluttony,
that he only eats fuch things as it is lawful to eat,

Rev. xvi. 10.

He comely fell, and dying gnatu'd the ground.

threads to pieces, and fet the lion at liberty.

Spenfer,

Sbakejf. Rich. U.
Tht gnarrii.-g porter durft not whine tor doubt;
Still were the furies while their fovereign fpcke.

Through Macer's gullet (he runs down
While the vHc gluitwi dines alone j
And, void of modelly and thought.
She follows Bibo's endlefs draught.

Sbakefp. Olhetto.

They gnawed their tongues for pain.

Sfen/er,

Thus is the fliepherd beaten from thy fide.
And wolves axtgnarling who (hall gnaw thee firil.

\glouton,

gluttons have ufed to have catsflelh baked.

Alas, why gtiatxi you fo your nether lip \
Some bloody palfion ihukes your very frame

[jnyjifian,

Uid him appeaie.

Cbeyni.

eating.

Drjd. Jhv.

To bite in agony or rage.

2.

to murmur; to fnarl.

'Vi'fcofuy.; tenacity.
There is a refinance in fluids, which may arife
from their ela(licity,^/<(;;««/>:./i, and the friilion
of their parts.

Young I'oldiers at their exetcifmgs gnaw.

When he 'gan to rear his briftles llrong,
And felly gnar, until day's enemy

Glu'tinousNess. n. /.. [(lom gluliaous.]

3.

To eat by degrees; to devour by flow
corrofion.
A knowing fellow, that would gravi a man
Like to a vermine, with his hellilh braine.
And many an honed foule, even quick had (lain.
Cbapman,
To you fuch fcabS'd harlh fruit is given, as raw

Saxon;
inonen, Dutch.] To growl;

ToGnarl. J

Next this marble venom'd feat,
Smear'd with gums oi glulinout heat.
Millor.
Nouriihmeat too vifcid and^/u//mw to befubdued
by the vital force.
Arbulhmt on Aliments.

1.

Dutch.]
1.

A

To Gnar. It;.

tiakev-'iU on I'nruidmee.

only the gnalfnafper.

To Gnaw. i>. a. [3na5an, Saxon; knaghen,

n. f, [Irilh ; gleann, gljn, plur.
glemt, Scottifh ]
hollow be-

Though he could not beat out the Irilh, yet he
did (hut them up within thofe two narrow corners and

'is detained,

Glu'tton.

«./. [gnat ini fftof,]
bird fo called, becaufe he lives by catching gnats.
They deny that any bird is to be eaten whole, but

tween two mountains.

tinous, produceth two cfFedls; the one that the (pirit

A

Gna'tsnapper.

fpumous matter.

ff'oodivard.

gluten,

flower, otherwife called the beeflower.

It is called

the fea to the heads of fprings, through certain
fubterranean conduits or channels, until they were
by fame glut, (top, or other means, artefted in their

A

Gna'tflower. tt./.{giiatznAf!invcr,]

ous.; glutinous.

jof

GLUnriNOUS.

Ye blind guides, which firain at a gnat and fwaf.
Mat. xxiii, 2^.

low a camel.

Gvv'y, ai/J, [frota glue,] Vifcous; tenaci-

The water fome fuppofe to pa(s from the bottom

paiTage.

Excefs ot eating ; luxury of the

table.
Gluttony, a vice in a great fortune, a curfe in a
fmall.
HoliJiy.
Their {^mptuous gluttonies and gorgeous fcalls.
On citron tables or Atlantick ftone.
Milton,
Well may they fear fome miferable end.
Whom gluttony and want at once attend. DryJen.
The inhabitants of cold moift countries are generally more fat than thofe of warm and dry; but the
moll common caufe it too great a quantity of food,
and too fmall a quantity of motion ; in plain Englilh,
gluttony and lazinefs.
Arbutbnot.

Let him bur fee the one in balance againd the
and he (hall find hirafclf miferable, even in
the »ery g/»f of hit delighis.
L'EJlrangc.
A glut of (ludy and retirement in the tirit part
of my lifei call me into this ; and this will throw me
again into ftudy and retirement.
Pofe to Stvift,
;

Sbakefpeate.

Any thing proverbially fmall.

2.

Glu'itony. »./. \gltitciiie, French; from

01 her,

More than enough

[irom gluttonous,]

Her whip of cricket's bone, the la(h of film;
Her waggoner, a fmall grey-coated grat.

With the voracity of a glutton.

DiigorgcJ foul

Their devilifh g!ul, chaia'd thunderbolts, and hall
Of iron globes.
Mihtn'i ParaJife Lojl,
2. Plenty even to loathing and fatiety.
So death
Shall be deceiv'd hhi^lut ; and with u$ two
Be forc'd to falisfy his rav'nous maw.
Mi/lM.

3.

aJ'v.

A fraairwingcd flinging infedl.

1,

ebuU

GtUT. n. /. [from the verb.]
1.

G O

P/.-axi. 16.

They him laid
Gnajkhg for anguirti, and defpite and Oiame,

To find himfelf not matchlefs.

Milton.

With boiling rage Atridcs burn'd.

And foam betwixt h\% gnajhing ^tiaitn cbum'd.
Dryden,

GNAT. ». / [^nset, Saxon.]

thereof muft direflly anfwer to the
North and South pole.
Harris,
There were from great antiquity fun-dials, by the
(hadow of a ftyle or gnomon, denoting the hours of

the day.

bro-iun.

Gno'monicks, m. r. [yrwftunxf,") A fciencc
which makes a part of the mathemaiicks
it teaches to find a juft proportion of
ihadows for the conftruftion of all kinds
of fun and moon dials, an.d for knowing
what o'clock it is by means thereof ; as
alfo of a gnomon or ilile, that throws off
:

the>fliadow for this purpofe. Trevoux.

To GO.

1'. n. pret. Invent; I htrve gone.
[jan, Saxon. This was probably changed
to gtnie,
or gang, then con trailed to
go.
Went is the preterite of the old verb

weltd,]
Ir

To

GO
To walk

1 .

G O

to move ftep by ftep.

;

You know that love
Will creep in fervice where it cannot ga.

Shaheff.

1

After fome months ihofc mufcies become callous
;
and having yielded to the ejtcnfion, the patient makes
Ihift 10 ^0 upon it, thoug*

To move

"7^-

3.

Mull, xxvi . 46.

To waik foleranly.
If there be caufe for

the church

go

to

u

forth in

folcmn procefTion, his whole family have fuch bufi-

net come upon them that no one can be fpared.
Hoihr.
4. To walk leifurely ; not run.
And muft 1 go to him ?
Thou miilf run to him ; for thou haft ftaid fo

—

_

,

or bad.

5. To march or walk a-foot.
I

will only go through on

6. To travel

my feet.

Kua.xx. 19,

to journey.

;

From them I gv.
This uncouih errand fole.

7. To procc'd

;

to make a progrefi.

_
8. To remove fiom

To depart from a place

;

M we go over the laws of Chriftianitv, we (hall

nnd that, excepting a few
particulars, ihey enjoin
Ihe lame things, only they
have made our dutv more

Shakt/p.

to move

from

clear and certain.

enlarge a little more upon

Jo. xi. 18.
1 will let you^o, that ye mayfacrificc, only you
Ei.. viii.i8.
Colchcrter oyften are put into pin, where the fei

regularly go o»er any

4.

Did from the camp at firit before him go.
Then I concur to lethimgo for Greece,
And wiih our Egypt fairly rid of him.

Co firft the malier ol thy herds to find.

Co-wley.

Drydtn.

True 10 his charge, a loyal fwain and kind.
10.

Pobt.

To move or pafs in any manner, or to

any end.
Though the vicar be bad, or the parfon be evil,
Co not for ihy ty thing ihyfelf to the devil.
TulTcr
She may go to bed when (he lill j all is as (he will.

You did wilh that I would make her turn ;

"

Sit, Ihe can turn and turn, and yet goon.
Sbakrfp
I
glad to fee your lordlhip abroad : I
heard fay
your lordlhip was tick : I hope your lordlhip trott

am

abroad by advice.
TTie mourners go about the ftreen.

Sbukt/feare.
Eccl. xii <.
The fun (hallgs down over the prophets, and the
day (hall be dark over them.
Mac. iii. 6
Put every man hi? fword by his fide, and go in
a;id
out from gate to gate throughout the camp.

_
,
The fun,

A«. ixxii. a?.
which once did (hine alone.

Hung down his head, and wilh'd for night,

When he beheld twelve funs for one

go along by the highway;
,?!'"'>*"''•

I will

"- >° "-= Wt. i5™,.

"

ii!

%r xv;
m ej.

His horfes go about

•

Almoftamile

Shakcfp. Maebeth.
?™"'?'^ •"
"«<> 'h' eafe and
fre!d„™
freedom off a novate fccne, '"^'f*
where a man may go hi,
own way and his own pace.

15.

march in

a

hoftile

or

warlike

manner.
You were advis'd his flelh was
Of wounds and fears, and that hiscapable

H,rb<rl

Turn not children go/ng, liHyou have given

Dryd
them

Ihe fatisfiaion they arc capable of.
Ijxke
Hiftory only acquaints us that his
.Icet -wen,

up the
fclbe, he having carried his arms as
far at that ri wr.

The Uft advice 1 give you relates to your

\!ih'i^\.

cur when you are going to be hanged, which,
either
for robbing your mailer, for boufebreaking,
ox noirr
upon tbc highway, may very probably be your
lot

faotn
Footman,

1?

I ruffer'd

'°^'' '^''"" ""' ^''''"*.'"'

'".

4hi

Centfl«
"
who, if

ih,-

&> through, bo,h treadeth down
and tear^ih
pieces, and none can deliver.

Mi".,

16.

Timotheus himfelf fell into the hands
of Dofitheus and Soiipater, whom he
befought with much
cralt to let him go with his life.
2 Mac xii 14
24. To tend to any aft.
There be fome women, Silvius, had
they mark'd
him,
In parcels as I did, would have
gone near
To^fall in love with him.
Sbakjp. Aiyou

25.

\M

matters wiih

To

an evil

ihemfelves contrive

-"""'

Dryd,n

Landed men, by their providence
and good h„f'
accommodating .heir e.pences
to iheir

f^,.*

''

in''''""'^''" '«n'«'"''^
backwards in the

,,
*-aW, weall^ointoyourofinicn.

in

the iftand that roet

places covered with a very fruitful

To pafs

27.

;

is in

fevlral

Addijom.

foil.

to be received.

praifes in verfe, 1 will only
repeat

forth her
(hem, and fpare my

owa tongue, (ince (he g»« for a woman.
_

^idnej

And the man -went among men lor an
old man

in the days ot

Saul.

tSa.x^u.

,1.
A kind imagination makes a bold man have vigout

and enterprixe in his air and motion:
upon his face, and tells the

it

people he

fo much.
",.,.

f.

. ,

ftamps value
is

(o

,

Clipping Ihould behnally flopped,
and (he
which remains Ihould go. according (o i(s

go for
„*,,.
Col/ter,

money

true value.

To move by mechanifin.
This pope is decrepid, and the bell got/4

for him.-

Clocks will go as they are fet ; but
man,
Irregular man's never conltant,
never certain.
1

.

Ottvay.

.

'IS with ourjudgments as
our watches, none
Oojurt alike, yet each believes his own.

The weyward fillers, hand in hand.
Porters ol the fea and land,

Thusdogoabour, about.
Sbakefp. Macletb.
Cl.pt and wartied money goe,
about, when the
entire and weigliey hcs hoarded up.

30.

bandry
woTld.

(own

name of Ano-Caprca, and

under the

Pope.
Sr: 29. To be in motion from whatever caufe.

^'"^P'-oi*"/ °« » fcrvantof a ori'nce

hive.

like it

be uttered.

It has the greateft

.-r-

.rrX'e;^nd'li';t'{""""''''''f'"""'''V!''T^
Ihey look upon men and

To rob ihe honey, and fubvert the

']'o

His difciples perfonally appeared
among them,
and entertained the report which
had gone abroad
concerning a life fo full of miracles.
Addifim.
26.
be talked of; to be known.

28.

publick ftate, in fo'Vreara

All gor, (o ruin, they

Jtyde"

foe.

Jo efcajx;.

23.

.

To change ftate or opinion for better

« ftate

much extremity for love.

m

g"

or worfe.

The regard of ,he

^

They with the vancjuiili'd prince and
parfyro.
And leave their temples empty to the

JV,„^. ,''i,i

The remnant of Jacob (hall be among

participles

fargow, and, truly, in my youth,

Becaufe a fellow of nty acquaintance
fet

1" us go down after the Philirtines by nigh., 7
and
fpod them until the moniing
light.
ha\,, ^6
as a hon among the
bcifts of the foreft;

is

Very near this.
Siake/p. Hamhf,
22. lo be
party or defign.

(Grward fpirit
danger rang'd ;
Yet did you fay go forth.
Sbakcfp.
We be not able to go up againll ihe Henry \ V.
people: for
they are ftronger than we.
'

ttll^T'^V^- '''f^'^"''"8s. which

And not putfue, but wait on his relreni.

ruin. This {'.nk is only in the

going znA go/te.

Would lift where molt the trade of

with h°m."

i«-it

To decline; to tend towards death or

21.

TTrnple

To

ioc*e

that colour, they Ihould be
fure to no

without it.

neiiher

'""'"" «»«'« king's words logo

Thisfeen, the reft at awful diftance ftood.
As if they had been there as fervants fei.
To ftay, or logo on, as he thought good.

SiMiji'% Vireaiont to a

will

fr«^ir'","°'
Irom
our religion.

Cling about the world, and giving light.

all

moderate feries of numbers.

Wh" t'
a(k how thou doeft ?

Bacon't Natural Hijiorj.

Lock,
to reckon, or

To take any road.
I

(hall not go very faraway.

A younj tall fquire

again, and

them.

They are not able all their life-time

Shakfjftar<'t Macitlh.
laid (he tt/rn/ her way,

gMlb and cometh.

Ti'llotjon.

In

their primary 9ualities
we can ro but a very
''"''*'^
Loek/.
,
1 go over ro.-ne parts of
(his argument

At once, good-night :
Stand not upon the order of your going,

And when ihe had ^

this (tuff, or

kept it

Hale.
by going over all thefe particulars,
you
m^' receive fome tolerable fatisfaftion
about this
great fubje^.

a place ; the oppofite of la come.
I hope It he nntgone, to tell my lord
That 1 kifs aught but him.
Sbaki/ptare.

Bulgoatonce.

E^ek. xhy.ic.

^-^^.f^

worth.

To fhift; to pafs life not quite well;

Every goldfmith, eager to engrofs
to himfelf ax
much as he could, was content to pay
high for if.
'
^
rather than go without.
£„4e
Cloaths they muft have ; but
if they fpeak for*

hope,

I

place to place.

Returning were as tedious as ^o'er.

20.

lideration of the Uivine Providence.

1 am in blood
Stept in fo far, that, Ihould I wade no more.

9.

me,

,

Drjdtn.

„

To be about to do.
So

Digiy Oft tbe Soul, Dedication.
_,
,
Ihus I have gone through the
fpeculative con-

Thus others we with defamation woand,
While they Itab us ; and fo the jert gon round.

^'

exiraordinary an example, in fo
degenerate an
age, deferves for the rarity,
and, I wtsgo/Vrg ,0.
fay, for (he incredibility of
it, (he atteftation
of all

m mental operations.

"y me till I had once again g^ne over it.

,

laints ?

19.

If 1 had not unwarily
loo far engaged myfclf for
theprefent publilhing it,'truely
1 Ihould have

Millon.

w,

Dare any of you, having a matter
againft another,
go to law before the unjuft,
and not before the

after their idols, they Ihall even bear
their

.T'^^'yto proceed,.

13.

em-

be formed

To have recourfe to.

that knew him, and confidered his

And the Levites that are gone away far from

trom me

8.

1

when Ifrael went aftray, which ivent
aftray away

Sbake/ftart.

,

,,

bryon could, according to his
explication,
at a time.

any courfe of life good
*

in

Sktle

that all the parts of (he

.

io proceed

iz.

long, that going will fcarce fcrve the turn.
-

>•

his cruel falfehood.

Becaufe this aiheiftgo„ mechanically
to work,"he
will not offer to affirm

"Xi. 4.

Aivay, and, with thee go, the
worft of woes,
ihatfeek'ft my friendlhip, and the
gods thy foes.
Cbapmart.
Heg5«A/ in company with the workers of iniquity,
and walketh with wicked
men.
Job
VVhalever remains in (tory
of Atlas, or his kingdom ot old, IS foobfcured with age or
fables, that
It may go along
witli thofe of the Atlantick irtands.
Temple.
,- rp
.
,

not ftand ftiJl.

;

Seeing himfelf confronted by fo
many, liliea re*
ht ivent not to denial, but to
iultifv

lolutc orator,

be adorned with thy tabrets,
and (halt go forth in the dances
of them that make

lamely.

Rift, let us be going.

I

Sviift.

To pafs in company with others.

1.

To apply one's felf.

17.

Thou (hale again

IVifemaH^s Surgery.

2.

G O

Thofe who come for gold will gooff with
pewter
and brafs, rather than return empty.

Locke.

AdJfon

To move in any direftion.

IValter.

Dodar, he is a curer of fouls, and
you a curer
of bodies: if you Ihould
fight, you go agaiirft the
hair of your proleirions.

Sbal'efp.:

Sliall the Ihadow go
forward ten decrees,
back ten degree.?

31.

I

o ao w i to pafs ;

or go
zKing,xx.%.
to have a cour fe.

TlM.

GO

G O
Tbe god I <m> whpfe yellow water fiowi

Arouod thcfe 6<lds, aod'faUciii » it gen,
JJrjJtn't /£n.
Tyber my nimc.
J2. To have a tendency.
Alhcnuos, Vlhow
Aninft right icafon all your counfel<{«;

45. To have influence

I had another reafbn to decline U, that ever u&s
to go far with tne upon all new invention! or experiments : which is, that the beft trial of thai* it by
time, and obferving whether they live or no.
1

Ttmfle.
'Tis a rule that gift a great way iti the govcinment of a (ober man's life, not to put any thing to

Not t*othcr qucrtion proper for debate.
To be in a ftate of compact er p»rtncrDrj-i'ien.

^l.

haaaid that may be fecured by iudallry, confiderL'Bftrauge,

fliip.

alion, or circumfpeflion.

As a lion was baitridiag an ox ibat he had newly

Whatever appears

Thepiiacjples I there wtnl on,

I

one part of ibeit lines.

There goes a

Bacon,
year or two over or under, that is, about fix or nine
weeks : and the whelps of ihefc fee not till twelve
4ays.

Broun,

And now with fecond hopes (he goesi
And calls Lucina to her thriJTTyr ^

Milim.

Shakefp,
boldnefsof your I'pcech.
1 will fend to thy father, and they (hall declare
Tob. i. 8.
unto him how things go with thee.
In many armies, it the matter Ihould be tried by
duel between two champions, the viftory (ball go
on the one fide ; and yet, if it be tried by the grols,
Bator.
it would go on -the other fide.
It has been the condant obfervation of all, that
if a minifter had a cause depending in the court, it
South.
was ten to one but it tvcnt againl^ him.
At the time of the prince's landing, the father,
eafily foiefeeing

To be in any ftate.

49.

It'aits'i Logick.

This fenfe is im-

perfonal.
It (hall go ill with him that is left in his t.ibema,?o^. »«•

cle.

He called his name Beriah, becaufe it -uent evil

To be in order of time or place.

with his houfe.

We muJ^ enquire farther what is the connexion of
that fcniencc with thofe that go before it, and ihofe

WatU.
which follow it.
.40. To reach or be extended to any degree.

Can another man perceive that I am confcious of
any thing, when 1 perceive it not rayfelf ? No ."lan's
knowledge hero can go beyond his experience.
Locke,

To extend to confequences.

It is not one maliet that either direfls or takes
notice of thcCe : It goe> a great way barely to permit

L'EJInuige,

To reach by efTefls.

Conftdering the chrapnefs, fo much money might
to lartlicr than a fum ten timcsgreaier could do now.

mikim,

To extend in meaning.
His amoutous cxpielGons g" no further than virtue
Dtydea's Ovid, Preface.

may allow.

To fpread ; to be difperfed ; to reach.
Whofc Sclk, torn off by lumps, tlic rav'nout foe
'Taif.
li> morfcU cut, to uake it farther £0.
5

how things would go, went over,

rouft pay me the reward.

To be expended.

44.

AdJiJoti.

1' th'

Scholars are clofe and frugal pf their words, and
not willing to let any go for ornarpent, if they will
Fttton.
not ferve tor ufe.

43.

together

i>-w!ft.
like many others, to the prince.
Wheilier the caufe gits for me or aiainft me, you

Shjkiff. Hamlet.
Sbake/p.
Let go the hand of that arch hcretick.

42.

by laying

To

To

them.

the

Something better and greater than high birth and
quality mull go toward acquiring thofe drnjonftraSwift to Pope,
tioiis of publicK efteem and love.
fall out, or terminate ; to fuccced.
48.
Your (bong polTcflioa much more than your right,
Or elfe it mult go wrong with you and me. Sh.ikefp,
Howe'cr the bufinels^«r, you have made fault.

Then he lets me go,
And, with his head over his (houlderturn'd.
He fcem'd to find his way without his eyes.

41.

to

no fmall (hare of

coalVuutions.

To

31;.

is

the many vicious charafters that prevail \n the male
world, and (hewing the dilferei.t ingredients that
gu to the making up of fuch different humours and

rained.

38.

many qujli.iii;aiions

honour anjconll-ience and fuflBciency required.
Cdl-.er cfFrUHJh'if.

pafs ; not to remain.
She began to afflia him, and his ftitngth ivtnt
Judges, xvi. 19.
from him.
When our merchants have brought them, if our
^mmodities will not be enough, our money mult go
Locke,
to pay for them.
paisj or be loofed ; not to be re37.

36.

great

1 give the fex their revenge,

Some do go with their youn^ the fixth part of a

would
Poco".

GUnvUle's Scefjis.

compleatiue this relation ; there

Sbakrfp.

i

Cbron. vii. 23.

To proceed in train or confequence.

50.

—

How goes the night, boy?

The moon is down: 1 have not heard the clock
Sbakejpeare,
And (he goes down at twelve.
'

1

had hope.

When violence wasceafed, and wvon earth.
MUtmr,
All would have thengo«i; well.
Duration in itfelf is to be :oniidered as going on
Locke.
in one confiant, equal, uniform courfe.
5 1

yi Go about. To attempt ; to endeavour ; to fct one's felf to any bufincfs.
Odear father.

Sbakejpeare.
thy bufincfs that \ go about.
but fo found, as well I faw
about
•went
but
lofe
himfclf,
couid
not
Ht
It is
I

To err; to deviate from

If

^y man's wife go afije, aai coQimil a treffafs
Numb. v. iz.

againii him.

53. To Go bti-wtta. Tointerpofe; to moderate between two.
1 did gn bcfueen tiiem, as I faid j but inore than
helovedhcr; fur, indeed, he was mad for her.

that,

Shakefp.

54.

loll him;

Milton.
His father 's bufincfs.
Which anfwer exceedingly united the vulg.ir minds
to them, who concurred only with them as they faw

them like to prevail in what they vient about,
Clarendvi.

Some men, from a falfe perfuafion that tjiey cannot reform Uiui

lives,

and root ojl iheit old viciW'

To Go by.

To pafs away unnoticed.

Do not you eome my tardinefs to chide.
That laps'd in time ^lid palTion, lets go by
Th' important acting of your dread oominand.
Shakefp. Hamtet.

More parts of the greater wheels go (o'lhe making

To be pregnant.

To Go qfiiU.

the right.

Arbutbttot,

flrong, that, if they were ufed inward;, ihey

Benticy.

I pray that it good time and life may find.
Shakeffeare'i Htniy VI 11.
Of living creatures fome are a longer time in the
t^omb, and foijie (horter: women jjo commonly nine
months, the cow and the ewe about fa moaths.

good fort of

kill Ihofe that ufe them.

The fruit (he gtes wjih,
'

think, as the world goes, he was

man enough.

Locke,

Great bellied women.
That had not half a week to go.

i'w///.

47. To contribute ; to conduce ; to concur ; to be an ingredient.
The medicines which go to the ointmenU are fo

The reafons that they t«« upon were very fpedous
J5.

52.

worth.

I fee noteaJTon to

and probable.

never fo i^tKh *i a(tein|it endeavour, or go
about it.
South,
Either my book is plainly enoi;gh written to be
rightly onderftood by thofe who pcrufe it with at.
tcntion and indiftrency, or elfe 1 nave writ mine (0
bbfcurely that it is in vain to go about to mend it.
Locke,
They never go about, as in former times, to hide
or palliate their vices j but ejpofe fhem freely 10
view.
Svjift,

their prevailing vice

46. To be rated one with another; to be
confidered with regard to greater or lefs

Spmii.

alter.

habits,

jMj for nothing, being either not applied, or pafling

Hcoker.

and divilions likely to aiife.
We are to go by another meafure.

againft

lor libel and (lander.

33. To be regulated by any method; to

proceed upon principles.
Where the multitude beareth fway, laws that (hall
tend to the prcfervatJon of that liate mult mike
common fmaller offices togD by lot, for fear of llrife

G O
to be of weight

t« be of value.

TnU is not fairi ooi proHubIc that,

«lucked down, a robber pafTing by cried out (o him,
half (hares ; you Ihould ^o your ihipi fays tlie lioo,
if you were cot fo lurward to b« your own carver.
L'EJfravge.
There was a hunting malch agreed upon betwixt
a lion, ao afi, and a fox, and tlicy were to j;^ equal
L'E/lraxgt.
(buc« in the booty.

;

So tnucb the more our carver's excellent,

Which let) go by, fomefutecn years, and makes het
As (lie liv'd now.
Shakefp. If^nler's Tale.
What's that to us? The time goe4 by ; away.
Sbakefpeare,

Go

To

by.
find or get in the con55. To
clufion.
In argument with men a woman ever
Goes by the worfc, whatsvcr be her caufe.
Milton.
He's fare logo by the worlV, that contends with an
adverfar)' that is too mighty (or him.
L' Eflrange.
by.
1 o obferve as a rule.
^6. To
.*TS» not to be fuppofed, that by fearching one can
pofitively judge of the fiie and form of a (lone; and
indeed the frequency of the (its, and violence of the
fymptoms, are a better rule to go by.

Go

Sharp's Surgery,

To Co do-wn.

To be fwallowed

; to be
received, not rejefted.
Nothing fo ridiculous, nothing, fo impoQible, but
it goes do-uix who|e with him for truth and earned.

57.

L'Bjlrange,
Folly will not eafily go davm in its own natural
form with dilcer.iiug Judges.
Dryden.
If he be hungry, bread will go down.
Locke.
Miniltcrsare (o wile to leave their proceedings to
be accounted for by reafoiiers at a diftancc, who
often mould them into the fyftems that do not only
go dtminytTy well in the coliee-lioufe, but ate fupplies tor pamphlets in the prefcnt age.
Sv/ijt.

58.

I0 Go in and Bill.

To do the bufincfs

of life.
The Loid (hall prcferve thy going out and thy
coming in.

Pf,

To Go in and out. To be at liberty.
yobn.
He (hall go iit and out, and find pa(turc.
To die ; to go out of life
60. To Go of.
J9.

to deceafe.
I would the friends we mils were fafe arrived

Some mud go off; and yet, by thefc I fee.
Shakefp.

So great aday as this is cheaply bought.

In this manner he u:ert off, not like a man that
departed out of life, but one that returned to his
Taller.
abode.

6 1. To Go off. To depart from a poft.
The leaders having charge (rom you to (land.
Will not

« «#" until they hear you (peak.

Shakfp. Henry IV.

62. To Go on.

To make attacK.

Bold Cethegus,

Whofe valour I have turn'd into his poifon.

And praifed fo to daring, as he would
Co on upon the Gods.
To proceed.
63. To Go on.

Ben yonfon.

He found it a great war to keep that peace, but
Sidney.
was fain logo on in his (lory.
He that delires only that the work of Cod and religion fliouIdjoM, i» plcifcd with it, whoever is the
iaftfi«cut.

Taylor.
1 have

G O
many

threats of ill fits

have already handled feme abufes during the
Utc management, and in convenient time ihall go on
S-uift
with the rctl.
When we had found ihatdefign impradiicablc, we
have
gone
on
manage(hould not
in fo cxpenfivc a
1

ment of it.

fore and that come after
to-day ^o?r away
and to-morrow comes.
Go TO. i/iterj. Come, come, take the right
:

A fcornful exhortation.
Go to then, O thou far renowned fon

courfe.

Let me be clear of thee.
Shakefp. T-welfih Night.
My tavour is not bought with words like thefe
:

G9 to ; you'll teacli )Our tongue another tale.

in which

ufed to follow, is now gone over to money.

When members knit, and legs grow ftronger.
Make ufeoffuch machine no longer.

GoKo. n.f.
ftrument
forward.

Svjijt,

65. To Go out. Togo upon any expedition.

You need not have pricked me there are other
men titter to ^0 out than I. Shakefpeare* % Henry IV.
\ 66. To Go out. To be extinguished.
:

Thmk'ft thou the fiery fever will^o oa/.
With titles blown from adulation ? Sbak. Henry V.
Spirit of wine burned till it go tut of itfcif, will
Bacon* t Natural Htfiory.
burn no more.
The care of a ftate, or an army, ought to be as
cnnflant as the chymiti'i fireto make any great production ; and if it^^ori out ion an hour, perhaps the
Temple.
whole operation fails.
The morning, as milVaken, turns about
And all her early tirei again go out, Dryd. Aureng.
Let the acquaintance be decently buried, and the

iiame rather^^ out than be fmothered.
Collier.
My blood runs cold, my heart forgets to lieave,
Atid lifettfelf^0''rtfi/r atthy difpleafure. Addif.Cato.
And ai her tclt ap]roach and fccret might.
Art after art £cfr dj//, and all is night. Pope* t Dune.

;

thee that it

common good

is

Arbulhnoi.

To Go ufioft.

To take as a principle.

This

have gorre upon throu^hiUoie
Addi/,n.

fuppotfttion 1

papers.

•o.

the

that thou (houldelt go through this

operation.
Cij.

for

The fenfcs of this word are very

diftinft :

its general

notion

is

in-

motion or

progrcflion. It commonly exprefles paflage

from a place, in oppofition to come.
it often obfcrvitbic even

VOL.I.

This

in figurative cx-

Dryien.

Goal. n.f. Vgaiile, French ] a long pole, fet
up to markthe bounds of the race.
1. The landmark fet up to bound a race
the point marked out to which racers run.

;

That tils on yonder bank,
Whole (fraying herd themfelfdoth (hroud

Among the bulhet rank

?
Spenfer' s Paflorah,
They (irlt gave the goatherd good contentment,
and the marquis and his fervant chaced the kid about

Milton' 1 Paradife Lop.

And the ilope fun his upward beam
Shoots againit the dulky pole.
Pacing toward the o^^\exgoal.

Milton.

Haltthou beheld, when from the^Wthey ftart.
The youthl'ul charioteen with heaving heart
Rufti to the race, ?
Dryden'i firgil.

The final purpofc; the end to which a
defign tends.
Out poet has always the goal in his eye, which
foine beautiful defign, whidt
direitts him in his race
:

Goa'tsmilk. n. /. \goat zxA milk.^
is more properly two words.

Bailey,

Each individual feeks a feveral goal ,
'Bji he.wn's great view is one, and that the whole.
Pope.

So man, who here fcemspiincipal alone.
Perhaps afts fecond to fome Iphere unknown ;
Toucliei fome wheel, or verges to fome gnol
'Tis but a part we fee, and not the whole.

Goat't Rue has the leputation of being a great
alexipharmick and fudorilick ; the Italians eat it
raw and builed ; with us it is of no clteem.
Hill.
.

Goa'ts-thorn. « /.

[goal and thorv.]

Wclfh.]

An

herb.

Goa'fish. aJJ. [ftomgoat.] Refembling a
as, ranknefs ; luit.
goat in any quality
An admirable cvaiion of a whoremaltcr, man, to
:

lay his goatlfb difpofition on the change of a ftar.

Shakefp. King Lear..

The laft is notorious for

its

goaiifh fmell,

and

tufts not unlike the beard of that lechet-oiis animal.

More againfi Atbeifm.
Gob. n.f. \gohe, French.]
fmall quantity.
A low word.
Do'rt think I have fo little wit a> to part with fuch

L'Ejl range.

GO'BBET. n.f. [gobe, French.] A mouthful ; as much as can be fwallowcd at once.
Therewith llic fpcw'd, out of her filthy tnaw,
A flood of poifoii, horrible and black,
Full of great lumps of Aclh uni gobiett raw, Spenfer.
By devililh policy art thou grown great.
And like ambitious Sylla, oyergorg'd
With^oWrtrof thy mother's bleeding heart. Shakt

The cooks. Hieing it into little gobbets, prick it oa
a prong of iron, and hang it in a furnace.

Sundy*s Travels.

The giant gorg'd with fle(h, and wine, and blood.
Lay (iretch'd at length, and fnoring in his den.
Belching taw gobbets Irom his maw, o'crcharg'd

With purple wine, and cruddled gore con fus'd. Addif.

To Go BBET. -v. a. [from the noun.] To
fwallow at a mouthful.
A low word.
Down comes a kite powdering upon them, and
g'jbbeti up both together.

Any edging

fcwcd upon cloth to ftrengthen it. Skinwr.

GO.^T. //. /. fjar, Saxon and Scottilh.]

A

ruminant animal that feems a middle
fpccies between deer and (heep.
Gall o^ goaty and flips of yew.
Shakefp. Macb,

We Cyclops care not for yoxir goat-fed \ovc.
Nor other bleft ones ; we are better farre. Chapman.

may draw naked boyi tiding lod flaying

L'EJlrange,

To GO'BBLE, nj. a. [gober, to fwallow ; old
French.]

gao/, 01 jail.
[goror,

A plant.

]

'

Pope.

fometimes improperly written tor

GoAR. n.f.

Yat4

[gafega

eftabliihe;, and

Dryden.

It is

This

After the lever and fuvli like accidents are diminilhed, alfcs andg!)u//Mj7> may be neceliary.

ihcn conlrivrs the means,
which will naturally conduct him to his end.

4.

The fame with

zgob of money ?

The ftarting poll.

firll

IVaiton.

Goa'tmarjoram. ». y;
GoATSBEARD.

A

As at the Olympian games, or Pythian fields.

Pan curb their tiery Heeds, or iV.un the goal

be

ment is to tend goats.

Then bll'd two ^Drt^/;/x, with her hands divine ;
With water one, and one with fable wine.
Pope.

Shakefp. Mcaf.for Meaf.

Stung with delight, is goaded on by thee.

3.

Goa'therd. v.f. [jar and hyjib, Saxon,
a feeder or tender.]
One whofe employ-

Goa'tskin. /I./, [goat andjiin.]

Goaded w[ih moit Iharp occaliuns.

to undergo.

abfolutely necefTary

;

Which lay nice manners by, I put you to
The ufc of your owa virtues.
Sbakefpeaye.
Of all that breathes the various pregeny.

2.

Bailey.

Goat's Rue, ti. /.

Is that temptation, that doihgoji/us on

W ith rapid wheeb.

a kind

;

kind of owl fo calleii from fucking goats.

;

To tin in loving virtue.

An infed

of beetle.

Pope.

to drive forward.
Moll dangerous

to execute.

I tell

,

To prick or drive with the goad.
To incite to ftiroulate to infligate

1.

A plant.

GoA'rcH.rt ER. ?;. /.

iVifeman's Surgery.
A pointed in- Goa'tmilker.
«./. [^0,7/ and milker.']
A
are driven

[lab, Saxon.]

with which oxen

To Goad, -v, a. [from the noun.]

67. To Go thrcu^/j, 'I'o perform thoroughly ;
Finding Pyrocles every way able to go through
with that kind of life, he was as defiroui lur his fake
Sidney.
as for his own to enter into it.
U you can aa well ^0 through with the (tatuie
laws of that land, I will thiuk you have not lolt all
your time there,
Spenfer.
Kings ought not to fuSer their council to ^Q/«r»tf^.A
with the refoluhon and dirediion, as if it depended
on them, but take the nutter back into their own
hands.
Bacon.
He much feared the Earl of Antrim had not tteaAiitefs of mind enough to^o through widi fuch an undertaking.
Clarendon.
The amazing difTicuIty and grcamcfs of his account will rather terrify than inform him, and keep
him from fctiing heartily about fuch a talk, as he
4efpairs ever to go through <»»*h it,
Houth^t Hrrrn.
The powers in Germany are borrowing money,
in order \o go through their patt of theexpence.
Addij.n on the Ifai

Prior.

Oft in his harden'd hand ngoaJ he bears.

2.

Are grac'd with light; the nurling fo<i;'j repaid.
With heav'n, and duly rais'd the pious maid. Creech.

the Itack.

to teach

C',-cmrts, to keep their fteps from Aiding,

ftandings don't fo much confider the principles as
the practice of thofe to whom they go vul r. Addifon.
Power, which, according to the old maxim, was

;

A machine

children are inclofed

Young children, who are try'd in

betake

In the change of religion, men of ordinary under-

To fuffer

circum-

them to walk, and which they pulh forward without danger of falling.

1 wilb you health to^o on with that noble work,
Berklej.

Peacham.

The little bear that lock'd the mighty Jove,
The fwan whofe borrow'd fliape conceal'd Ins love,

Is not thilk lame goatherd proud.

Go-CART. ft./. [^0 and far/.]

Snvift,

To revolt ; to
64. To Go m;er.
himfelf to another party.

artifice;

Rotve.

Except an apprentice is inllrutfted how to adulterate and varnilh, and give you the go by upon occafion, his malier may be charged with negleitt.
Collier on Pride.

SxuijT.

iitations, or exiraordinary expletives.

Spenfer.

Go to, go to, thou art a foolilh fellow ;

», /. Delufion ;
vention ; over-reach.

phins.

capri.]

In medicine.

Go-by.

with their paper-mills upon goals, eagles, or dol-

Goa'tbeard. »./. [goal anA beard ; iaria

Of great Apollo ; fliew thy famous might

Many clergymen write info diminutive a manner,
with fuch frequent blots and interlineations, that
they are hardly able to go on without perpetual he-

We fay, the words that go be-

preflions.

the beginning of the difeafe ; but when the eipectoraiion f 0^' Off lucccfsfully, not fo proper, becaufe
Arhutbnot on Diet.
it fometimes fuppreflcth it,

68. To Go through.

GOB

G O A.

by thefe
wo'ions; it'ihcy^o cw, the only poultice I have dealt
Temflt.
with i: wool from the belly of a far ihccp.
To look upon the foul as going on from rtrength to
ever
fhine
for
with
ftrcngth, totoiifider that (he 14 to
new accelUons of glory, and brighten to all eternity
Addifon.
is agreeable.
Go on chcarfully in the gloriciu couife you have
Addifon.
undertaken.
Copious bleeding is the moft efifcflual remedy in
I have efcaptd

To fwallow hallily with tu-

mult and noife.
The (heep were fo keen upon tKe acorns, that they
gobbled up now and then a piece of the coat alonj
with them.
L'EJlrange.
Of laft year's corn in barn great (lore ;
turkies
gobbling
Fat
at the door.
Prior*
The time too prccioos now to wafte.
And (iippct gobbled up in hafte.
Again a frclh to cards they run

Go'bblbr. n, f.[itom gobble. 1
f S

Siuifr.

One that
devours

GOD

GOD
d; vouM in hafte ;

gormand ; a greedy

a

eater.

Co'betweeji. »./• \gi ^ad ietwefn.] One

Commonly inanillfenfe.

Even as you came

in to me, her afliftant, or go-

heivieen, parted from me
fcetwKn ten and eleven.

Gq'blet. »./.

:

1 fay, I

fhaUbe with her
Sijke/peare.

Sbakrff.

We love not loaded boards, and^oi/f/icrown'd

But one that fconis to live in this difguife.
For fuch a one as leaves a gentleman.

And makes a god of fuch acullion.

golelhu, which
Sptnjer has once retained ; writing in it
This word fome derive
three fyllables.
from the Gebellvtes, a faftion in Italy ; fo

Go'blin. n. /. [French ;

A term
one for whom one
of fpiritual relation
became fponfor at baptifm, andproraifed

Go'dchild. «./. \g0d2x\d child.l
;

thatf^ ztid goblin is Guelph and Gibelline.

to fee educated as a Chriftian.

Hear, nature hear ; dear goddeft, hear a father

but I will prove,
Thou being a goddcfs, I forfwore not thee :
My vow was earthly, thou a heav'nly love. Sbakefp.
I long have waited in the temple nigh.

An evil fpirit

;

a walking fpirit ; a fright-

Sliahjf.

Built to the gracious goi/i/./i Clemency ;

Drydcn^s Fables.

From his feat the goddejs born aro;'e,

among a crowd ai goddejfes, Ihc was diliinguilhed for
Addifon.
her graceful ftature and luperior beauty.
Modelly wiih-held thc^oi/iyj/}' train. Pope's Odyjf.

tIis and goUiiu, or

A maid amidll them goddefs-Ukc appcar'd.
Go'd f t h e r

Confirmation, a profitable ufage of the church,
tranfcribed from the apoftles, confills in the child's
undertaking in his own name, the baptilmal vow ;

Go, charge my goblins that they grind their joints
With dry convuUions j iborten up their lincws
Sljaktfpearc's ttmfeji.

With aged cramps.

and, that he may morefolemnly enter this obligation,
bringing fome godfatber with him, not now, as in
Hammond.
baptifm, as his procurator.

Mean time the village rouzes up the hre,

Go'dhead. n. f. [ixom god.]
Godlhip

2.

ture.

While well attcitcJ, and as well bcliev'd,
Heard folemn goes tlie gMin ftory round. Tliomfon.

GOD. n. /. [30b, Saxon, which likewife
pW,

The fame word paflfes in

both fenfcs with only accidental Tariations
through all the Teutonick dialefts.]

The Supreme Being.
C«/ is a fpirit, and they that worfhip him mud
worfhiphimin fpirit and in truth.

^oi«,iv.i4.

God above
Deal between th«e and me. Sbaktffeare't Machttt.
All the churches of Cod are united into one by
the unity of difcipline and government, by virtue
whereof the fame Chrift ruleth in them alL Pearson.
The Supreme Being, whom we call God, is a neceffary, felf-e«iftent, eternal, immenfe, omnipotent,
omnifcient, and bell being ; and therefore alfo a being
who ii and ought to be cllcemcd moll lacred or holy.
Grtvi'i C'ojmol.

A falfe god ; an idol.
He that Ucrificeih unto any God, fave imfo the
Lord only, he fhall be utterly dcllroyed. Exod, xxii.
As flics to wanton boys arc we to the gods.

They kill ut for their fport.

The

He had a fon by her, and the king did him the
Bacon.
honour as to Hand godfather to his child.

Sfcn/tr.

SImktff. King Lear.

Stiong|;o</of atms, whofe iron fceptre fways

The freezmg North j and Hyperborean fcas.
And Scythian cold , alij Thracia's Wintercoaft,
Where ftaiid thy ltceds» and thou art booour'd moll.
D'ydtn.

;

It is

;

Piety to god.
obfcrvation of

General

2.

all

the duties

prefcribed by religion.
Virtue and godlinefs of life are required at the
Hooker,
hands of the miniller of Cod.

Go'dlv. adj. [from god,]
1 . Pious towards God.
Grant that we may hereafter live zndly, righteous,
Common Prayer.
and fober life.
2. Good ; righteous ; religious.
Help, Lord, for the godly man ceafeth, for the
faithful fail among the children of men.
Pf. iii. !•
The fame church is really holy in this world, in
by a real
it,
godly
contained
in
relation to all
perfons
Vearfon.

Godly, adv.

Pioufly ;

By

righteoully.

analogy it fhould be godlily, but the repetition of the fyllable is too harfh.
Theapoftle St. Paul teacheth, that every one that
will \\it godly in Chrift Jefus mult fufFer perfecution.

Hooker.

Good-

nefs ; righteoufnefs. An old word.
For this, and many more fuch outrage,
I crave

your godfyjjead to alTwage

Spenfer,
The rancorous rigour of his might.
Go'dmother. n. f. [god and mother.] A.
woman who has undertaken fponfion in.
baptifm. A term of fpiritual relation.
Go'dship. ». /. [from^oa'.] The rank or

charafterof agod; deity; divinity.
Difcourfing largely on this theme.
O'er hills and dales their ^0<(/?>/>J came.

Prior.

One for
[god and fon.]
whom one has been fponfor at the font.
What, did. my father's god/on feek your life ?

Go'dson.

deity ; divinity ; divine naufed both of idols and of the

true god.
Be content
Your low-l.iid fon our godhead will uplift.
At the holy mount

». /.

He whom my father named ? your Edgar ? Shakeff..
S':akefp.

Ofheav'n's high-feated top, th' imperial thrane
O! godhead, fi«'d for ever firm and fure.
Milton's Paradife Loft.
The filial paw'r arriv'd.
So may thy godhead be confetl.
Prior.
So the returnmgyearbeblell.

A deity in perfon

a god or goddefs.
;
Were your godheads to borrow of men, men would

2.

a diminutive god.
nity
n hy puny godlings of inferior race,
Whofe humble ftatucs are content with brafs. Dryd.
Go'dliness. «./. [itos&godlj.]

Go'dlvhead. ».yi [from godly.]
Pope.

\god zsA father ]
.^
. ». y".
fponfor at the font.

i"'*'-

a. •X fair)' ; an elf.
His fon was Elfinel, who overcame
The wrckcd goiire/itts in bloody field ;
But Elfant w.is of moll renowned tame.
Who of ;ill cryllal did Panthea build.

like,]

Then female voicis from the (hore 1 heard ;

any fearful appreheniions in the

dark.

and

Go'ddess-like. adj. [godde/s
Refembling agoddefs.

A little divi-

Go'dlinc. »./ [from^o//.]

infufed fanflity.

Dryden's Fables.

And thus undaunted fpoke.

To whom the goblin, full of wrath, reply'd.
Art thou that traytor angel ? MHion't Paradijc Lojl.
Always, whilft he is young, be fure to prtferve his
tender mind bom all imprellions and notions of fpi-

7.

^

When the daughter of Jupiter prefented herfelJ'

ful phantom.
A-igels and minifters of grace defend us !
Be thou a fpiril of health, or gohlln damn'd.
Bring with thee airs from heav'n, or blalls from hell

I.

:

But rev'rence thou the pow'r,

rived.]

~

I

aiiakeffeare.

A woman I forfwore

long had fpirits among them named Go.
Mdi, from which gobeltne might be de-

fjgnifies

».

divinity.

becaufe the children of either party were
terrified by their nurfes with the name of
the other : but it appears that elfi is
'
\Vel(h, and much older than thofe factions.
Eilff Uijhon, are phantoms of the
Might, and the Germans likewife have

'

A term of fpiritual relation.
/ [from god.] A female

baptifm.

Milton
Publilh W\t godlike o&(.e now matijie.
That prince fhall be fo wife and godlike, as, by
eftabliilied laws of liberty, to fecure proteflion and
encouragement to the honelt induftry of irunkind.

1,

Go'ddaughter. a. /. [god &aA daughter.']
A girl for whom one became fponfor in
Goddess.

Milton.

Locke.

S lijkejpeare' s Coriolanus.

ti^y, godded mc, indeed.

Enjoy tlie prefent hour, adjourn the future thought.
Drydcn.

^

;

to exalt to divine honours.
This laft old man,

Crowni high ihcgMeis withacheeiful draught ;

I .

Sbakefftjrt.

To Goo. 1: a. [from the noun]. I'o deify

;

Deiibam.

But iVee from furfeilt our repofc is found.

Thus .Adam his illuftrious guell befought,
Mufing and much revolving in his breaft.
How bell the mighty work he might begin
Of Saviour to mankind, and which wayfirft

Lov'd me above the meafurcof a father ;

My figur'd goiUti for a di(h of wood.

lent.

And thus the godlike angel aiifwer'd mild.

am not Licio,

I

A bowl,

[gohelci, French.]

or cup, that holds a large draught.

refembling a divinity ; fupremely excel-

Phil. iii.

that tranfafts bufmels by running between

two parties.

G O E

3. Any pcrfon or thing deified or too much
honoured.
Whofe end is deftruftion, whofe god is their belly.

Sli.iie/feare's Timon.
forfake the gods.
Adoring firll the genius of the place,
Thciymphs and native godbtads yet unknown.

Go'dwaRD. adj. To Godivard is tOfward
God. So we read. Hoc Arethnfatenus, for
haHenus Arethufai
And fuch trull liave we through Chrift

Godi Cor.

Go'dwit. »./. [xob, good,

anil prca, an.

A

bird of particular delicacy.
animal.]
Nor ortolans nor ^c^/wirj crown his board. Corutey..
Go'dyeld. 1 adv. [corrupted from God
term,
Go'dyield. j Jhhld ox proted.]

A

of thanks.

Now not ufed

Herein I teach you.

Dryden's JEn.

Go' DLiis. adj. [{romgod.] Without fenfe
of duty to God atheiflical j wicked ;

to

ivard.

How you fhould bid godyeld us for your pains.
And thank us for your trouble.

Sbakefp, Machttb,

:

irreligious; impious.
Of thcfe two forts of men, holh godlefs, the one
has utterly no knowledge of God, and the other lludies how to perfuade themfclves that there is no fuch
Hooker.
thing to be known.
Thit godlr/s cnvi
Milton.
Rebellious.
For faults not his, for guilt and crimes
Of godlefs men, and of rebellious times,
Him his ungrateful country fent.
Their bed Camillus, into banifhment.

Go'dliku, adj. [god and

lih.]

GoEL. fli^'. [jolep, SaKon.]

An

Yellow.

old word.
In March, at the furthell, dry feafon or wet, ]

Hop roots fo well chofen let Ikilful go fet
Thegsf/frand younger,.the better! love ;
Well gutted and pared, the better they prove. Tujfcr,

Go' E R «./ [ from go. ]
.

\ .

One that goes

;
a runner.
would they were in Africk both together,,
Myfelf by with a needle, that 1 might prick
Sbakefftart's Cymiellne:
The goer back.

1

Dryden.

Divine j

Such a nun

Might

G O L

G O L

Might be a copy to thefe younger times

Which, follow'd well, would now Jemonftrate them

The fooner to efFedl what I intended.

But gcfrt backward.
Sbntef. All's •will.
Nothing could hurt either of us I'o much as the

Thou that fo ftoutly had refilled me.
Give me thy gold, if thou haft my gold;
For I have bought it with an hundred blows.

intervening officious impertinence of thofe^o^rj beus, who in Ea^Iand pretend to intimacies
with you, and in Irelaim to intimacies with me.

tween

2

A walker

.

3. It is ufed for

luable.

Pope to Swift.
j

uifeeS-.Tyi J

one that has a gait or manner

that he was no graceful goer,

The foot.

3.

Chapman.
t;. ». To look afquint.

eyed ihemfelves.

.

Shalefpeare.

The time of death has a far greater latitude
than that of our birth ; mod women coming, according to their rcckaoing, within the compafs of
a fortnight; that is, the twentieth part of their
g'i'ZCrew', Clfmol. Sacra.
3. Departure.
Thy g^ing is not lonely ; with thee goes
Thy hulband; him to follow thou art bound. Milton.

Thy air.
Thou othei goldbound brow is like the Erft. Siaiefp

Go LDZN. adj. [from gold.]
1.

Go'ldney. n.f

A fortoffilh, otherwifc

called Gi/thead.

/)/^_

Go'ldpleasure. «./. Anherb.

Dia.
Go'l d s I z e «./ a glue of a golden colour
:
.

glue ufed by gilders.
The gum of ivy is good to put into yom goldfxe,
and other colours.
Peacham on Draining
Go LDSMiTH. n.f. [501b and rmtz, Saxon.]
1. One who manufaftures gold.
Neither chain nor goldj itith came to me. Shakrfp.
2.
banker; one who keeps money for
others in his hands.
The gold/miih or fcrivener, who takes all your
fortune todifpolc of, when he has buforehand refolved

A

to break tlw following day, does furely
deferve

gillows.

GoLL. n.f [corrupted, as Sltinner thinks,

Made of gold; confiding of gold.

from pal or pol, whence pealban, to handle
or manage.] Hands; paws; claws. Ufed

0( golden metal, that muftiound my brow.
Were red hot ftcci to fear me to the biain. Shakrfp.
Nine royal knights in equal rank fuccced,

in contempt, and obfolete.

They fet hands, and Mopfa put her golden golU
among them ; and blind fortune, that faw not the

Each warrior mounted on a firry lleed.

colour of them, gave her the pie-eminence.

In golden armour glorious to behold

The rivets of theirarms were naii'd with gold. Dryd.
2.

Shining; bright; fplendidj refplendeiit.
So fweet a kifj the gilden fun gives not
To thofe (relh morning drops upon the rofe

which is in Dutch to (hine; or of another
Dutch word, which is gelten, and ligni-

'Tis better to be lowly born

Than wear a^^/d^wforrow.

dinary word ^<-//, for money. Peachtm on
Dravjiag,]
I. Go/d is the heavieft, the mod denfe,
the
moft fimple, the moft duftile, and mod
fixed of all bodies, not to be injured
either by air or fire, and fecming incor-

Shake/p. HeniyVUl.

wheel.
articulation.

Gomphofii is the connexion of a tooth to its fockeC.
^^ifeman.

GO'NDOLA.

by means of fea-

Gt;/</fK rufteting hath a gold coloured
coat under a

injured by no other fait.
Go/d is frequently found native, and very
is

rulTei hair, and its flelh of a

yellow colour. Mortimer

Excellent; valuable.

4.

rarely in a ilate of ore.

A little gtndclay, bedecked trim

In a gondola were feen together Lorenzo and hij
amorous Jellica.
Shakefp. Merch. of f^eaice.
As. with gondolas and men, his
Good excellence the Doge of Venice
Sails out, and gives the gulph a ring.
Pritr.

». /. [from gondola.]
boatman ; one that rows a gondola.

Which luould be worn now in their ncweft glofs.

Ht//on Fofft/s.

twixt them to keep the peace.

Dryden.

Thence arifcs that golden rule of dealing with
others as we would have others deal with us. H-'atlt.
5.

*"""'' ^"'•""t Hijlory.

TT; Buckingham,
n
u
Ah
now do 1 ply the touch,
To try if thou be current gold indeed.

Happy; refembling theage ofgold.
Many young gentlemen fljck

!

to

him every day,

and fleet the time catclefly, as they did in the golden

Shahfl,

*Of''i-

Golden Saxifrage,

and colours rej^^i^

An herb.

'I he gold frauglit velTel
which mad tempefts bcati
Me fee, now vainly make to hu retreat.
Driden
' *'
Money.

SbakeJ^eare.

n.f.

[c/oryfopletiium.]

Go'ldenly. a^i/. {homgolden.]

-Delight-

fully; fplendidly.
My brother Jacques hekeeps atfchool, and report
fpeaks^eit/;^ of his profit, Sbakifp, ^lyouUseU,

For me, the giJd n( France did not kiutt,
I

A

Your fair daughter,

Not caft alide fo foon.
Sbakcfpeare's Macbeth.
That verfe which they commonly call golden, has
two fubllantives and two adjeiHves, with a verb bc«

Co/rf hath thefe natures:
greatnefs of wei-ht,
clofenefs of jMrts, fixation,
pli,inlnefs or fofinefs.
immunity from rutt, and the colour
or tinftiire of

A

With boughs and arbours woven cunningly. Spenfer.

Gondoli'er.

1 have bought
Golden opinions from all fort of people.

Pure Go/d is fo
that Bocrhaave informs us of an
ounce of it fct in the eye of a giafs
furnace for two months, without lofing a
fixed,

f [gondo/e. French.]

Along the (hore, as fwift as glance of eye,

Dryden.

Rnvf.

n.

boat much ufed in Venice ; a fmall boar.
He faw did fwim

To a poor Galilean virgin fent.
Crajhavj.
To her hard yoke you muft hereafter bow,
And fee the guardian angels of the good.
Reclining foft on many a golden clouj.
3. Yellow ; of the colour of gold.

Bailey.

GOMPHasiS. n.f A particular form of

Heaven's galdrn winged herald late he faw

Howe'er ftie ftiines all gtlden to you now.

Sidney,

Gome. n.f. The black greafe of a cart-

Nor ihine3 the filver moon one half fo bright
Through the tranfparer. t b jfom of the deep. Shake/p.

in Latin "jalere, in Knglifh to be
of
price or value : hence cometh their orfics

the

s-wi/i.

Go LDY LOCKS, n.f [coma aurea, Latin.]
A plant.

O would to God that the inclulive veige

Weilh. It is called gold in our Englilh
tongue, either of geel, as Scaliger fays,

I

I

and

compafled with gold.

GOLD. H. /. [jolb, Saxon; golud, riches,

goblet, only by tl« different
rigurw
prcfcnlcJ to the eve by the pencil.

Go LDHAMMER. n.f. A kind of bird. Siuift
Diil.
Go ld NO. w,/. A fort of apple.
Diff

Boyle.

pod, open it with a penknife at each divifion,
as
low as the flower has burft it, and bind it about
with a narrow flip of goldbeater' t Jkin,
which
moiften with your tongue, and it will (lick together.
Mortimer.
Go'ldbound. adj. [^sA/and boundi] En

In a cornice the gola, or cymatium of the corona,
the copiog, the modiUions or deotelli, nuke a
noble

>

ftiff,

of an ox, which goldbeaters lay
between the leaves of their metal while
they beat it, whereby the membrane is
reduced thin, and made fit to apply to
cuts or fmall frefh wounds, as is now the
common practice.
^incy.
When your gillyflovrers blow, if they break tile

Co'la. »./. The fame with Cymatium.

'

He fuck'd his vittcls through a quill
Untouch'd it pafs'd between his grinders,
Or't had been happy for goldfnders.

reftura

The aft of walking.

fingle grain.

plied to thofe that empty jakes.
Ffis empty paunch that he might
(ill.

Go'ldbeater's S/iin. n.f. The inteftinuni

Afcbam.

Then comes the time, who lives to fce't.

and

Dryden.

I

fOfP?'' <"• fi'ver, to make the coin more
lefs fubjeft to be wafted by attrition.

n.f, [from j-o.]

When nobles are their taylors tutors,
No hereticks burnt, but wenches fuitors,

/-'

Kgolajiuch there I faw, with gaudy
pride
0( painted plumes that hopp'd from fide to (ide.

Our galJbeaters, though, for their own pro5t
lake, they arc wont to ufe the fined
gold they can
get, yet they I'cruple not to employ
coined gold ;
and that the mint-mafters arc wont to alloy with

Squint-eyed ; not looking ftrait.
They are dHbrmed, unnatural, or lame; and very
unfecmly to look upon, except to men that be goggle.

It is foluble

divers others.

to gild other matter.

GoccLE-EVED.

but

ruddocks. Canary-birds, blackbirds,
thrulhes,

One

Inflam'd all over with difgrace,
To be fecn by her in fuch a place.
Which made him hang his head, and fcoul.
And wink and goggle like an owl.
Hudibras.
Nor fighs, nor groans, aor goggling eyes did want.
Dr^'den.
adj. [j-cejlejen, Saxon.]

ruptible.

So among the ancients ;>;»ur5
and wtimamjue morejque aureos

whofe occupation is to beat or foliate gold

With fitted (hoes.

falt;

Siuk.

any thing pleafing or va-

e^
Shakefp. Henry V.
Gold ofP/eaJure. n.f. [myagrum.] A plant. Goldfinder. »./. [goldand/nd.] One
who finds gold. A term ludicroufly apGo'LDB£ATi!R, ». /, [_f<!/d'and beat.']

IVotton.

Obfolete.

That going [hall be us'd with feet.
2. Pregnancy.

fingmg bird, fo named from his
golden
This is called in StafFordOiirc
proud tayhr.
Of ringing birds they have linnets,
goldfinches,
colour.

Horace.
The king's a bawcock, and a hart of gold,

A double mantle, call

Go'iNG.

Sbaiefp,

A lad of life, an imp of fame.

Athwart his (houldcrs, his faire joerjgrac'd

To Goggle,

Goldfinch. «. /. [solbpnc. Saxon.J A

edncit in ajlra.

of walking good or bad.
The e.irl was fo far from being a good dancer,

1.

G O N

Although I did admit it as a motive

Tranfported with no worfe nor better guard,
But with a knave of hire, i gondolier.
To the grols clafps of a lafcivious Moor.
Shakefp,

GoN E. part, preler. [from go.

See To Go. j

Advanced ; forward in progrcfs.

1.

I have known flieep cured of the rot, when they
have not been hx gone with it, only by being put into
broomlands.
Mortimer.

The obfcrvator is much the brilker of the two,
and, I think, tnrfbcr ^nne m |:,t* hi lycs and impudence than his Prclbyteiias brother.
Stuift.

Ruined; undone.

2.

He muft know 'lis none oi your daughter, nor

my lifter; we arc gu« clfe, Shakifp.H'intir'tTale,
3.

Pad.
I'll

^% %

teUtlte ftory of my \\.U,

AaJ

\

We

And the particultr jccidenu gtitf by,
.

_

When her matters faw that ilie hope of thtir gain*

11. Legal; valid; rightly claimed or held.

Speech is confined to the living, and imparted to
and
only thofe that are in prefcuce, and is trinfient

m

Oldham.

I mourn Adonis dead and g'>'ii.

_

dog, that has his nofe held in the vapour,
air, or
lofes all ligns of life ; but carried into the

A

12. Confirmed; attefted;

valid.
Ha! am I fure (he'swrong'd? Perhaps 'tis malice!
Slave, make it clear, make good your accufation.
Smith.

thrown into a lake, recovers, if not quite jo«.
Addifan on Italy.

Go'nfalon. 1 ». /. [gonfanon, French;
Go'nfanon. J gunf/ina, Iflandick. frotn
^aff«, a battle, andya»/, a flag. Mr. ijv.j

13.

good as dead,

Ten tlioMfand ihoufand enfigns high advanc'd.
MillM.

A

,

«./. [-/"(S^- and p'iw.J
morbid running of venereal hurts.

Gonorrhoe'a.

[comp. belUr, fuperl. bfji.
50b, Saxon goed, Dutch.]
par1. Having, either !»_enerally or for any
adj.

1

ticular end, fuchphyfical qualities as are

not ill.

had made, and
God faw every
Ctn. 1. 31.
behold it was ytfj good.
An uiiiverfe of death which God by cmfe
Milton.
Cicated evil j for evil only good.
thing that he

fit;

I

1

a

man's peers a man

reverence, and therefore

confefs ; as

1

Shall perfe^j and for thefe my death (ball pay.
Millet:.

What reward
Awaits ihtgocd, the reft what puniihment. Militn.

The only fon of light
In a dark age, againft example g^tt/,
Milton.
Againft allurement.
Such follow him, as (hall be rcgiftred
Ptrtgood, part bad, of bad the larger fcroll. Milton.
Grant the bad what happinefs they would.

thofe are ge-

good at flattering who are j oorf

for nothing

Houlh.

make my way where-e'er I fee my foe j

One they mull want, w Inch is 10 pafs for good.

Dryden.

Pofr.

— Good morrow, Catefby you

Why drew Mai fcillcs'^ost/bifhop purer breath.

for bre-

iy. cxxxiii.
thren to dwell together in unity.
Many good xnosrovJi to my noble lord

When Nature ficken'd, and each gale was deaih ?

i.

Pope
Such wasRolcommon, not more learn'd tiian p'<:o<i',
Pope.
Wilh manners gen'rous as his noble blood.
No farther intercourfc with Heav'n had he.
Harte,
But \c(t good works to men o( low degree.

!

are early ftirring.

Good e'en neighbours
Siakeffi,
Good ('en to iWygood t'cTi to you all.
Milton.
At my window' bid good morrow.
Good morrow, Portius let us once embrace.

not

(hill

Kind; foft; benevolent.
Matters being lo turned in her, that where at firil
liking her manners did breed good will, now good
will became the chief caufe of liking her manners.
Sidney.
Glory to God in the higheft, and on earth peace
towards
men.
Litke ii. 14,
and good will
iihout good nature man is but a better kind ni
Bucon.
vermin.
Here we are lov'd, and (here we love;
Good nature now and palfion ftrive

25.

Addifon.

be fure of

it

is

good a

little

to

18.

Milton.
Regardlefs whether good or evil lame..
Silence, the knave's repuic,thc whorc'sgoc/name.
Pope.
The only iionour of the wiihmg dame.

20. Confiderable ;
very great.

juice of the earth troin it.

good; and the
Prim. xiiv. 13.
Oi hrrbs and plants fome arc g'.od to cat raw ; as
Jiucon't Nat. Hi/1.
lettuce, endive, and purllanc.
it

is

Complete; full.
The I'totellani fubjeAi of the abbey make up a
Addifon

Ptofbam on Draivijig.

All quality, that is good for any thing, it origiColiier tn Envj,

virtue,

We

I

mean good nature, arc ot daily ufe.

one another,

not this the very body and fubftance,
and life of our Saviour's whole
inftitution ?
Sprait.
It was his greateft pieafure to fpread his healing
wings over every place, and to make every one fenli'
' bleof his £><></ will 10 mankind.
Col,
How could you chide the young good natur'd
is

this the very fpirit

StC'ift.

Hegantj decent; delicate: ^\^brtcd-

ing.

prince,
I

If the critick hat publilhed nothing but rulei and

an

Locke.

Dryden,
This dodlrinc of God's good will towards men,
this command of men's proportionable good will to

Clarendon.
of three thoufand foot to be embarked.
may fuppofc a great many degrees of luilcnefs and lightnefs in thefe earthy particles, fo as
many of them might float in the air a go4d while,
Burnet.
like exhalations, before they fell down.
They held a good i^are of civil and military employments during the whole time of the iilurpation.

2J.

to lay early the true foundation of

Good fcnfe and good nature are never feparated,
though the ignoiant world has thought othet'wife.
Dryden,
Aftability, mildnefs, tendernefs, and a word which
1 would fain bring back to its oiiginal fignificalioa of

Bacon.

Myrtle and point^ranatr, if they be planted
though a good fpace one irom the other, will meet.

m Italy.

9. Ufeful; valuable.

is

honeft man.

The king had provided a good tleci, and a body

Pleafant to the tafte.

nally founded upca me/ii.

to others,

upon the graf^ a good way about, by drawing the
,

Nilus is fweeter than other waters

goad third of its people.

not

A g'^od while ago Cod made choice that the
Gentiles by my mouth (houid hear the word.
Ails, XV. 7.

Prior.

and it is excellent good for the ftone and
Bacon'i Nat. HiJ).
hypochondriack melancholy.
becaufe
honeycomb, which is fweel.

fmall though

God, hath no more good will for men.
Decay of Piety,
When you (hall fee him. Sir, to die for pity,
'Twerc fuch a thing, 'twould fo deceive the world,
'Twould make the people think you were good naDenhom,
lur'd.
To teach him betimes to love and \it good naturcd
to

The plant, having a great ftalk and top, doth prey

in tafte,

Eat thou honey,

not

Suckling,

'Tis no wonder if that which affbrd&fo liitle gloi^

Quictnefs improves into cheerfulnefs, enough to
make me jail fo good humoured as to wilh thai
Pope,
woild well.

good tor

6. Medicinal ; falutaiy.

The water of

Which of the two Ihould be above,
And laws unto ihc other give.

They may be of good comfort, and evergo cheer2 Mac. xi. 26.
about (heir own affairs.

Locke.

Wholefome ; falubrious.
A man firft builds a country feat.
Then hndsthe walUoot^W lo eat.

g.iy.

fully

Uncorrupted ; undamaged.
He alfo bartered away plumbs, that would have
that would lalt

W

Joined with any words
cxpreffing temper of mind.

19. Cheerful;

good that the man thould be alone.
Gin. ii. i3.
We may as well pretend to obtain the good which
we want without God's airillance, as to know what
SmaUidge.
is gooj loi us without his dircAion.

rotrcd in a week, for nuts,
his eating a whole year.

Honourable.
They call to get ihcmfelves a name,

be

•

It is not

8.

him it may,

Behold how ^&0(/ and how pleafant it is

Conducive to happinefs.

7.

Good or not good ingraft ; my merit, thefe

Locke.

But you, my lord, are good at a retreat.
Happy; profperous.

fi"""Hacon.
If )0u think good, give Martiju leave.
ItwasafKui/ lime 10 comply with the importuCLrend^n.
nity of the gt:ntleinen of SulTcx.

r.

Mati.
All man's worUs on me.

!

familiar.

4.

;

17.

familiarity, and therefore it is gio.^ a lillle to kcei)
ftate ; amongll a man's imeriori jr.c lliall be lure oi

3.

wilhed; virtuous; pious; religious; apNot
plied both to perfons and anions.
bad not evil.
For a good man fame would even dare to die.

Shaktff.

right;

convenient;

Antonio is a gtod man : my meaning, in faying
he is a good man, is to have you underfHnd me
Shakefp.
that he is futficient.
24. Having moral qualities, fuch as are
th.it

Rom.v. 7.

nerally

Pofr.

human, to forgive, divine.

wrong.
Among

ments.

The woman haih wrought a good work upon me.

Flatter

ne'er fo dit« a thirll of glory boaft,
Nor in the crilick lei the man be loft
Goad nature and good fcnfe muft ever join

To err

in honour come ofi^ again.
Shakrff.
23. Rich; ofcredit; able to fulfil engage-

16. Skilful; ready; dexterous.

!

2. Proper;

neither, than with faiety of a pure blufh thou may'ft

Knolln.

elfe.

Dryden.
From an ill caufe to draw a %ii>d effefl.
Notwithftanding this cniicifm the verfes were
Sfeautor.
,/_
A man is no more to be praifed upon this account,
than becaufe he has a regular pulle and a goad diAddi/on.
gefticm.

greatell patterns of wit and good-brecding.
Sxvift.
22. Real ; ferious ; not feignt d.
Love not in good earncft, nor no farther in fport

No worfe.

as thefe.

Refolv'd

is

W'*- «'•

counirics are fure to be followed and imitated as the

The maftcr will be as good as his word, for his
L'Efirange.
own bufincfs.
Well qu.ilified ; not deficient.
5

!

Ah

of the llcy in

Thofe among them, who return into their feveral

If they had held their royalties by that title, either there muft have been but one I'oveieigii over
them all, or elfe every faiher of a family had been
as good a prince, and had as good a claim to royalty

;

;

liars

upon their enemies.

and

Not bad

many as the

good-breeding in his raillery.
Addifon's Guardian.
Mankind have been forced to invent a kind of arwhat
humanity,
which
wc exprefs by the
tificial
is
Addifon,
word good-breeding.

He (harply reproved them as men of no courage,
which, being many times ar good as in polVelfion ol
the vittory, had mort cowardly turned iheir backs

mummy

expefted or defired.

fo

With as preceding.

14.

grows on the
Rauty mumniy or ftonc
milk,
tops of high rocks : they p-jwdcr and boil it in
I^'ood-ward.
then give it to Hop gonorrtxat.

GOOD.

has a kind of

multitude.

Standards and invjalom', 'twixt van and rear.

Stream in the air.

It

negative or inverted fenfe; at good as, no
better than
Therefore fprang there even of one, and him at

a ftandard.

;

With <7/ preceding.

obfervations in criticifm, I then contider whether
there be a propriety and elegance in his thoughts and
woid!,clearnefs and delicacy in his remarks, wit and

'

According 10 military cuftom the place was goorf,
and the lieutenant of the colonel's company might
the
well pretend lo the next vacant captainlhip
Wotlon.
fame regiment.

Dead; departed from life.

An enfign

|

propo1 le is rclolved now 10 lliew how flight the
-pofilions were wli;ch Luther let go \otgiod. Aiterbury.

wngMC, iheyciught Paul «nd Silas. /4i?»,xvi. 19.

5.

Leckc-

Sound; notfalle; not fallacious.

10.

Loft; departed.

we I

difcipline betimes thofe other creatUfM

would make ufeful and^Wfot fomewhat.

Sbjktff. Temptft.

Since 1 came to i\m ifle.
jL,

GOO

GOO

GOO

Aad drive him from you wilh fo ftern an air. Addif.
26. Favourable

GOO

G 00

a5. Favourable ; loving.
But the mtn were very good unto us, aaJ ure ivtre
no'hu"1 Sjm. XXV. 15.
Truly God \i good to Ifrael, evcu to 1'ui.h as are of
a clean heart.

You

I.

^. Ixxiii. i.

have g-,oJ rcnjeobjance of us alwuys de-

Locte.

'

if,^,.

was well known, that Sir Roger had been a
good tejiow, in his youth.
Aibutbmt.
3«. It IS fometimes ufed as an epithet of
flight contempt, implying a kind of nega-

^
irood

,

_

2.

3.

Drydcn.

4.

They in themfelves, goodfoolb are too too light.

So Kill he makei tt gxd an viriue's fcorc.

fubliantive; but the exprf (lion is,

To confirm;

to

Upon hii badlife lowairall tK-tgotJ.
Sbakefp
To make good ihis explication of the article,
10 prove that the church,
our Saviour founded and iheapolllcs

which

I hcfe propoOtioo* 1 ihall
endeavour to make gJd.

Good. [To make.]

(fuller.

'Jo fupply.
Krery diftma being ha. fomewhat
peculiar to itleii, to make good
i)i one circuroftance what
it wants

"'""«^'-

Without good nature and

gratitude,

goodUw in a wilderaefs as in a (bcicty.

VBJirange.

1.

Well; not ill; not amifs.

2.

AiGqou.

"^'

'

I

is

His e deft born,

a goodly

th.ie

I

Drvde«
"'

!

yoah to view,

-^

Excell d the reft ,n (hape and
outward Ihew:
^air, tall, his limbs in due
proportion join'd.
But Ola heavy, dull, degen'rate
mind.
Diyden.

Bulky; fwellmg; afteaedly
turgid

2.

Round as 3 globe, and liquor'd every

Goodly and great he (ails behind

Happy; defireable;

3.
.

chink.

his luik.

DrvJ,n
-^

gay.

"

England was a peaceable kingdom,

Seffor.

"'"

and but lately
""* <^°""^ 8°"-""",' of"'-

Wehavemany^»,a'/vdaystofee.

Goodly, ad-v. Excellently.

r

Sbjk^fptre

Obfoletc.
" "'^'" 1"«nmoft bright,
i'""' m\'

rJh flounlh in all beauty excellent
Uoih

•

And to her guefts doth bounieous'ban.,uet
^
digliti
Attempered

men had"as

t

"

O^c..rf/>ordet'd work
O power divine
Ul thee I am, and what I am

un-

L'EJJranre

•,

pf,-

as beautiful as new •

I

I

^

v-«00D. adi:

T« perform.

While (he lo tar extends her grace,

36.

1 would have pluck'd.
How full of ornaments is all rvlew
In all its parts
and feems

Milton

^..^ leave his vellel 10 the
di.cdion of the winds, and the
government of the

gathered, was to
acccUion.
Fearf.

face,

Va*r.

before he (leers

his courle, or he had a,

li

Shtmuke, but good the promtfe of her

Eve.
Of the fourth tdwatd was his noble foni. Milion.
Fieroe,j»,a'^,dalliant, beautiful and
young.
""*• "--"'r.
Not long fince, walking in the

My nurfeand I, we there beheld field,
A goodly fruit,, which, tempting me,

think
vicious; and good is rather an
adjcdive
dlipticaJly ufed, or it may be
conlideied
as adverbial.
See Good, adv.
The pilot muft intend lome port

farther will maintain

Si°,°^' ,f ^' ""^'-l

''

mm

Iht goodliefi
o( mta fince born
His ions, the tairelt of her
daughters

HJyduy.

knight
For virtue, valour, and for noble blood,
1>uih, honour, all thai is compiii'd
in g.od
Dryd
placed after iaj, with as, feemsa
5.

Dryden

then before.

He had not made them any
recompence fof
goodly houfes and olive
gardens, dcftroyed in "he
tormer wars.
t,
,,

derftood ; and ihat the good of profit
or pleafure ihe
bonum utUe, or jucunaum, hardly
come into anv
account here.
Soulb
Nor holds this earth a more defcrving

cftablilh.

3^"

,

Sam ix t

,

And alltheirformes, much ^«.rf//er

Good

;

Ai honour made him firtt the danger chufe,

leceive a conftant and perpetual

goodlier perlon than he.

fVfoici good, can make evil

to be

Clartnd'^n.

will be neceflarj

(he

Empty of all good, wherein confifts
Woman's domeftKk honour ai.'«J chief ptaife.
Milt
By good,\ queliion aotbutgood, morally
fo called
tonnm bonejium, ought, chieHy at lealf,

Bacon' t Henry W\l.
Me forced ihem to retire in fpite of their dragoons,
which were placed there to male go^d their retreat.

olTer

1

Kebekah took goodly raiment of
her eldell fon
Efau, and put them npon
Jacob.
Gen. xxvii. e.

Pf. xxxiv, 14
from evil does not juftify
|

His knowledge oigotdU,^, and evil got.
Happier had it fuffic'd him to have
known
Good by itfeK, and evil not at all.

chieftains, all

you havof.en

Her fmiles and tears
Sbakefp. King L-ar.

Heie from gracious England have

Of that defended fruii, but let lum boaft

mukingg^d the fight without any groundgivcn.

I

,-,

fplendid.

L'EJirange.

O Ion, like one of us, is Man become,
To know boih good and evil, fince his tafte

^.-.'r

Hbak'Jfeart.

[To maie.]
33. Good.
To keep; to
maintain ; not to give up ; not to abandon.

fine;

Which (hould exprefs htxgoodli.fi:
Sunlhme and ra.ii at once.

Depart from evil and do good,
a.

graceful;

Were like a wetter May.

Moral qualities, fuch as are dcfireable

Not only carnal good

the eye.

j^ood.]

A prince of a goodly afpea, and the more
^W/y
by a grave majeity, wherewith
his mind did deck
^.j
Sidney,
A
cty I, this Antium. Sbalefp.
CosioZ'
.....vw a.tu
and forrow
loiiowurove
Ibove
,,,..„ "'icnce

Earnelt ; not jell.

\»itaogoed, no not

of 'treM,'
Hooker.

his outward graces.
A goodly
» ji

Profperity; advancement.

'till

[from

adj.

Beautiful;

Now httle in ufe.

virtue ; righleoufnefs; piety; the contrary
to wickednefs.

InGooo/oolh. Really; ferioufly.
Wiiat mud I hold a candle to my ibames ?

aiake ]

when we behold them, delighteth
I.

»

r- •

Goo'dly.

Rogers.

The gowl woman never died after this,

eyes •

The ftatelinefs of houfes, lU goodlinefs

r^ype

,

came to die for ^oo^and all.

In good timt, replie* another, you have heard
ihcm
diffutc againit a vacuum in the fchools.
ColUtr.

[To

ii 1 s

it he had employ'd
Thofe excellent gifts of fortune and of nature
Llaio the good not ruin of the Hate.
Ben Jon/on

Sidney,
-T-t
The
goodJ will of the nation to the prefent war has
been fiiiie but 100 much experienced by the
fuccefles
that have ailcnded it.
Temple
Gooi/wiil, ihe laid, my wantof ftrcngth fupplies

Good.

that

them

thirlt after truth, and a defite nf
good, are principles which ttill »&. with a gi«a( and
univerfal force.

tended, called unro us to follow him, which
we both
kound by oath, and willing by good will obeyed.

34.

no lefs beautiful to
his ears, than her goodlinef,
was full of harmony to

Prior.

A

'

She fung this fong with a voice

to caufe or increafe pleafurc,

As bodies periOi through excefs of blood.

oAd

Btautv"-'

grace; elegance.

Locke.

.

what IS apt

IS

Shakefp. Hamlet.

Goo'dliness. „./. [from eood/j.]

Works may have more wit than does them good.

36. Hearty; earned: not dubious.
He, that ifx the time fit for the delivery he in-

He wjihout tear a dangerous war purfues

,

.

Ai,d lor the church's good defer thy own.

in the luiiihine, they that have been
but a while in
Ireland can well witnefs.
SptnTtr.

Spruit.

alfo this good in it,

'«» n-^. he that knows,

A loft exclamation of wonder.

Good.no^, g,od.nou., how your
devotions jump
with mine I

ordiminilh pain in us; orelfc to procure or preferve
us in the polfeirion of any oxhet good,
or abfence of
any evil.
Locke.
Refufe to leave thy defVin'd cliarge too foon,

29. In a ludicrous fenfe.
As tor ail other govd women that love to do but
little work, how handfome it is to
loufe ihemfelvcs

beloi.g to this boulliold.

have

will

It will put them upon
confidering, and teach
the necellity ol examining more than
they do.

My^oWman, as far from jealoufy as I am from
giving him caufe. Shaiiff. Merry
H'i-veiofm>idf.
She had let't the good man at home, and brought
away hcrsillant.
Addi/on't Hftaator,

Since we claim a proper inlereft above
others in
the pre-eminent rights ol the houihold
of laiih, then
10 maktgaod that claim, we are obliged above
others
locoi.foira to the proper manners and
virtues thai

'''

2.

mikins.

.

In good time; a la honne
heure. A gentle
exclamation of intreaty. It is
now 5 lo^v
word.
''""r-,"'*
vJlliwT
Why
,h^ fame watch ?

Milton.

_,
This caution

tive virtue or bare freedom from ill.

There diet) upon the place all the

t.

Prelcribing truth to wit, and good to will.
Davies.
The lelTeiiiiig or efcapiug of evil is to be reckoned
under the notion of good: the leffening or lofs of
good'isto be reckoned under the notion of evil.

It

32.

Oood

Nature in man's heart, her laws doth pen,

'

And diligence Ihall give what age denies.
1\. In Good time. Not too faft.

No furgeon dilaies an abfcefs of any
kind by injea.ons, when the pus is
good-condiiioned.
Sharp
now. interjedion.

rW

P''''!^8'"g-

Without ill
Ufed both of

adj.

fymptoms.

things and perfons, but not
elcgantlv.

M'tlton.

God is alfo in llecp, and dreams advife.
Which he haih fent propitious, lome great

prevent the cuftom of having the cup often at his
Dole; a dangerous bejiimiug and preparation to rood
fellowlhip.

qualities or

Shakefp.

Siill overcoming evil.

;W

.,

Good-conditioned,

Merciful over all his works, with good

27. Companionable; fociable; merry. Of'teii
ufcd ironically.
Though he did not draw the
fellows to him
by driating, yet he eat well.
Clarind/^n.
Not being permitted to drink without eating, will

It is fomc-.

!

times ufed ironically.

tet me play the lion too : I will roar that I will
do any man's heart good to hear me.
Sbakefp.
He wav'd indiffercntiv 'twixt them, doing neither
g^od nor harm
Shakefftare's Coy Uanus.
Love with fear the only God,

Tbef. iii. 6.

Th:i idea muft neceflarily be adctjuate, being referred to nothing eift but itfeif, nor made by
any
other original but Ac good liking and will of him
that ftrft made this combination.

Good, wterjtaict. Well! ri^ht

That which phyfically contributes to
happinefs; benefit; advantage; the contrary to evil or mifery.
I fear the emperor means
no good ta us.

fining greatly to fee us, as we alio to fee you.
I

GOO

Good. ti.f.

«<,.<//,

well for health and for

delight

•

Goo'diyhood. v.f. {itTom gocdly.\
Grlw'"
J\.^^^^^,
goodncfs.
Obfoletc.

1^0 worfe.

Was I to have never parted from thy fide,
As good have grown there ftill a lifclefs rib.

But mote thv goodlihood

forgive it me.

To meet which of the gods I (hall

Mill

Says the cuckow to the ha«k. Had
you not as
good have been caung worm, now as pigeons
f

ihee name.

''^"'^"'

Goodman. „./. ^^ood and man. ]
'.

L'Efirange.
J

A llight appellation of civility

rally ironical,

•'

:

gene-

^

How

GOO

GOR

G O R

Mow B«w, whal's the matter ? part.
—With you, gooJman boy, if you pleale

t,
:

come,

Sbakr/p. KineUai.
111 Belli ye.
2. A ruftick term of compliment ; gafftr.

Nay, hear you, goodman dclver. Shakrff. fhmlei.
But fee the fun-beams bright to labour warn.
And gild the thatch oi goodman Hodge's barn. Gjy.
Old jMJoinn Dnbfon ot the green,

Come in, taylor

Goo'dness. »./. [from ^W.]

1,

The common goofcberry.

z.

qualities either moral or phyfical ; kind-

nefs ; favour.
If for any thing he loved greatnefs, it was becaufe
SidKiy.
therein he might exercifc \i\i goodnefs.
There is in all things an appetite or Jefirc, whereby they incline to fomething which they may be; all
which perfeflions ate contained under the general

Auguft has upon his arm a balket of all manner
of ripe fruits ; as pears, plums, apples, goofeberries.

Hooter.

Yes, that goodmfi
Of gleaning all the land's wealth into one.
Into your own hands, cardinal, by extortion
The goodtufi of your intercepted packets
You writ to (he pope againft the kmg ; your goodnefi.
Since you provoke me, fliall be moft notorious. Shak.
Sbakrff.
There's no gMi/';.y} in thy face.

There is a general, or natural goodnifi in creatures,
Ptrkim,
and a morefpecial or -mynA g<:'jdnefs

The geodxefi of every thing is meafured by its end
ferves the

and ufe, and that's the bed thing which
TdUlfan.
beft end and purpofe.

All made very particular relations of the ftrength of
the Scots army, the excellent difciplinc that was ob-

Clarendon.
Nobody can fay that tobacco of the fame go^dnefs
is rifen in refpeil of itfelf ; one pound of the fame
fei-vcd in it, and the gosdne/ioi the men.

gwdnefs

will

never exchange for a pound

and

a

Locke.

quarter of the fame gindnefi.

Goods, n. f. [from^oei/.]
Moveables in a houfe.

I.

That giv'ft to fuch a guell

As my poor felfe, of all thy goods the beft. Chalm.
3. Perfonal or moveable eftate.
That a writ be fu'd againft you.

Upon a goofeberry bufti a fnail I found
For always fnails near fweeteft fruit abound.

Gay.

Go'osEc.^p. »./. [itom goo/e aad cap.']

A

». /.

Coofrgrafs, or wild

lanfy,

is

;

Hang ye, gorbellied knaves, are you undone } No
ye fatchutfs, 1 would yourlloie were here. Shakefp.

GoRD. «./. An inftrument of gaming, as
appears from Beaumont and Fletcher.

Warhurlon.

Thy dry bones can reach at notliing now, but
Beaumont and Fletcher.
gcrds and ninepins.
Let vultures gripe thy guts ; iot gcrds and Fulham
Shakefp.
holds.

_

merchandife.

Her majefty, when iht goods of our EnglKh mer•liants were attached by the duke of Alva, arrefted
likewife the goods of the Low Dutch here in EngRaleigh's EJfays.
land.
Sake, that fcorn'd all pow'r and laws of men.
Goods with their owners hurrying to their den.

».

/.

[from

goody.'\

A griefly wound.
From which forth gufli'd a ftream of gore^ blood
That all her goodly garment ftain'd around.

Dutch; gatve, Erfe,

Glutting his father's eyes with guiltlefs^ore. Dryden.

Blood clotted or congealed.
The bloody faft

2.

Will be aveng' J ; though here thou fee him die
Milton's Paraiife L^fl.
Rolling in duft and gore.
His horrid beard and knotted treffes ftood
Stiff with Xuig'-re, and all his wounds ran blood.
Dcnbain.

To ftab

1

fing.

;

ge^ey,

No weaker lion's by a ftronger flain

I. A large waterfowl proverbially noted, 1

know not why, for foolidincfs.

adj, [from gorge^
gorge or throat.

Having a

Go'rged.

Look up a height, the ftirill gorg'd lark fo far
Shakefpeare.
Cannot be fcen or heard.
adj. [gcrgias, old French.

GO'RGEOUS.

Fine; fplendid ; glittering in
various colours ; (howy ; magnificent.
O, that deceit fliould dwell
In fuch a gsrgtoxj palace. Shak. Romeo and jfuHet.
As full of Ipirit as the month of Maj
And gorgeous a the fun at MIdfummcr. Shakefp,
lie bid them look upon ihemfelves and upon their
Skiuner,]

enemies, themfclvcs dreadful, their tntm\ti gorgeous
Hayward.
and brave.
The gorgeous Eaft, with licheft hand.
Pours on her kings baibaric pearlandgold. Milton,
Wkh gorgeous wings, the marks of lov 'reign fway.
The two contending princes make their way. Dryden.

Dryden.
2.

"[

Splen*

fuit all over fpread with diamonds, loll one

of them

of good value.

kfollon.

«. /.

[fro.-n

gorgeo:ij,]

Splendour; magnificence; fliow.
n.f. [from gorge] The piece
of armour that defends the throat.

Go'rget.

He with a palfy fumbling on his gorget.
Shakes in and out the rivet. Souk.Troilus andCreffida.
He did oftentimes fpend the night in the church
alone praying, his headpiece, gorget, and gauntlets
KnolUs.
lying by him.
See how his gorget peen above his gown.
To tell the people in what dangcrhe was. Ben Jonfon,
About his neck a threefold go'get.
Uudibias,
rough as trebled leathern target.
n. f. [v«»v«'.] A monfter with
fnaky hairs, of which the fight turned
beholders to ftonc ; any thing ugly or

;

And poles with pointed fteel their foes in battle gore.

Uilturb with nightly noife the facted peace. Drydtii.

gorged the

As

Nor from his largertulks the lorell boar
"Tate.
CommilBon takes his brother fwine to gore.
For arms his men long pikes andjav'lins bore.

Shjktfp. Macb.

Since 1 pluckt geeje, play'd truant, and whipt top,
I knew not what 'twas to be beaten till lately.
Sbakefpeare.
Birds moft cafy to be drawn are waterfowl j as the
Peacb.im on Drawing.
to-ife and fwan.
Nor watchful dogs, nor the more wakeful gre/e,

as, the fijh has

:

Go'rgon.

to pierce.

Oh, let no noble eye prarane a tear
Forme, if I begoi'a with Mowbray 'sfpcar. Shakef.

;

plural.]

Thou cream-faced lowt,
Where got'lt thou thatgos/c look ?

Sfenfer.
Another's crimes the youth unhappy bore.

ToGoRE. 1'. <7. [jebepian, Saxon.]

GOOSE. »./. plural, ^f^/r. [soj-, Saxons
gets,

And into a deep (anguine dy'd the graffy ground.

Hudibras.

To give fo near a friend the (lip.

To fwallow
hook,

Go'rgeousness.

thick.

The

Ludicrous.
quality of goody.
The more (hame ia^\\tx gocdyjliif.

2.

The duke, one folemn day goygeoujly clad in a

Blood efFufed from the body.

1

». /. [corrupted from poo(/wj^.]
low term of civility ufed to mean

Goo'dvship.

defire that they will not gorge the lion either
with nonfenfe or obfceni>)-.
Addifn,
Nor would his naugliter'd army now have lain
On Africk's fands, disligur'd with their wounds,
Togorgf the wolves and vultuiesofNumidia. Addif.
The giant, gorg'd with lleih, and wine, and blood,
Andftretchtat length, andfnoringinhisden. Addif.

didly; magnificently; finely.

fanious matter.

Goo'dy

jierfons.
Soft, goodi (heep, then faid the fox, not fo
Hubbcrt.
Unto the king fo ralh you may not go.
Swarm'd on a rotten ftick the bees I fpy'd.
Cay.
Which crft 1 faw when goody Dobfon dy'd.
Plain goody would no longer down ;
Swift.
•Twas madam in her grograni gown.

Gorge witlimy blood thy barbarous appetite. Dryd.
I

GORE. n.f. [jone, Saxon.] gor, Wellh.] Go'rgeously. adj. \itom gorge out,

Waller.

A

He that makes his generation mcffes.
Shakefp, King Lear,
To gorge his appetite.

Mortimer.

[from jop, dung, and
belly, according to Skinner and "Junius. It
may perhaps come from gor, WeKh, beyond, too much ; or, as feeras to me
more likely, may be contrafled from
gcrmand, ox gormati's belly, the belly of a
glutton.] A big paunch a fwelling belly.
A term of reproach for a fat man.
Go'iiBiLLiED. adj. [hom gorbelly.'] Fat;
bigbcllied ; having fwelling paunches.

Lejlty.

freight ;

Shakefpeare.

GO'RBELLY. n.y;

^haktff. HemyVl\\.
This hinders nothing the proceedings ol the civil
courts, which lefpeCt the temporal punifliment upon

body and goods.

Being with his prefence glutted, gorg'd and full.

a weed that ftrong

clays arc very fubjc^ to.

fa-

tiate.

orach.

«aftles, and whatfoever.

Wares ;

Spenfer,

To Gorge, •v.n. [gorger, French.]
1
To fill up the throat ; to glut ; to

Go'osEGRAss. tt.f. Clivers; an herb.

To forfeit all your goods, lands, tenements,

•.

And all the way moft like a brutifli bcaft.

He fpewed up \s\%gorge, that all did him deleft.

Wild

l^cbencpodium.l

Sbakeffeare's Othello.

That which is gorged or fwallowed. Not
in ufe.

filly perfon.

Go'osEFOOT.

the fwallow.

Moor.
2.

Peachum,

All goudneft
Is poifon to thy Itomach.

;

fo finely, that they
did not only deceive the fight with their figures,
which the y.atty
ibngs,
their
but the hearing with
Sidney.
inllruments did make theirgsrgr deliver.
And now how abjiorred in my imagination it is J
Sbake/feare's Ham'.rl.
my gorge riles at it.
Her delicate tendernefs will find iifclf abufed, begin to heave the gorge, difrelilli and abhor the

The large

m.nnured goofeberry.
3. The red hairy
goofcberry.
4. The large white Dutch
goofeberry.
5. 'Ihe large amber goofeberry.
6. The large green goofeberry.
7. The large red goofeberry. 8. The yellow-leaved goofeberry.
9. The ttripedMiller.
Icaved goofeberry.

The throat

There were birds alfo made

here you may roaft your foofe.

Go'o8EBER.1tY. «./. [goofe iaHi btrty, becaufe eaten with young geefe as fauce.]
A berry and tree. The fpecics are, i

Defireable

name of goodne/i.

:

Shakr/p.

Siuijt.

Remembers he the trees has ;een.

A taylor's fmoothing iron.

To pierce with a horn.
Some fofs'd, foroe gor'd, fome trampling down he
kill'd.

Diyden.

He idly butting, feigns
His rival gor' J in every knotty trunk. TAsa/. Spring.

GORGE. .». y; igor^e, French.]

horrid.
Corgons and hydras, and chymeras dire.

Milloti,

Why didlt thou not encounter man lor man.
And try the virtue of that g^rgon face

To rtare me into ftature.

Dryden,

GO'RMAND. ». /. [gourmand, French.]
A greedy eater; a ravenous luxurious
feeder.

Tc Go'rmandize. v. n. \homgormaud.\

To cat greedily

;

to feed ravenoufly.

Goilmamui'zer.

GOV

G O S
GoRMAKDi'zER. n.f, [from the eerb.]

A

thick

Furz ;

At the chriftening of George Duke of Clarence,
who was born in the caftle of Dublin, he made both

n. f. [gopj-, Saxon.]
prickly ftirub that bears yellow

a

the Earl of Kildare and the Earl of

flowers in Winter.

Go'ry. adj. [from goreJ\
1, Covered with congealed blood.
When two boars with rankling malice met,
Theirf oy fides the fi-dh wounds Hen e!y fret. Sftnfn.

1.

Why do'!} thou (hake thy gory locks at me ?

3.

Such dr^ad his awful vifage on them cart
So feem poor i:iic% itgojhaiuks fight aghall. Fairfax,

Go'sLlNC. n.f. [iiom goo/e.'\
1. A young goofej a goofe not yet
grown.

good

stiaeyytAicr;

fojkel,

Jkeal

the decrees whereof Scripture ireaieth are
eonditionaie, receiving Chrill as the g'ffl offers
him, as Lord and Saviour; the former, as well as

All

Full warm of blood, of mirthofgo^^/ff^.

Thth gofftetitrj have had their golden days.

;

He likeft is to fall into mifchance
Spenfer.
That is rcgavdlefs of his governance,
Go'vERNANT. n.f. [gcitvemanle, French.]
lady who has the care of young girls
of quality. The more ufual and proper

A

when he depends on us

man fay what he will do

Go'v ER N ESS. n.f. \gomierntreffe, old French,
from gi^e.^
1. A female invefted with authority^
The moon, the gox'erncfs of floods.
Pale in her anger, wafties all the air,

Shakefp.
That rhcumatick difeafes do abound.
2. A tutorefs; a woman that has the care

of young ladies.
He prefenied himfelf unto her, falling down upofX
both his knees, and holding up his hands, as the old.
governifs of Danae is painted, when Oie fuddenly
Sidney,
law the golden Ihower.
His three younger children vittt taken from ihe
Clarendon,
governifs in whofe hands he put them.

Pope.

Go'tten. part. paff. of get.
Wifdomcannot be^5//e« for gold. ^0^, xxviii. 15.
Few of them, when they are gotltn into an
apply their thoughts to the execution of it.

GouD. n.f, Woad: a plan

3.

Dia.

Govt. n.f. A mow.
Tuffer.
To Gove, -k, ». To mow; to put in a
gove, goff, or mow.
An old word.

I.

gob andj-yb,

rela-

more hard to be

:

redrclTcd

Slaves to our paftions we became, and then

axon.]

One who anfwers for the child in bap-

is

It grows impoifible to govern men.

2.

To regulate
I

;

iyaller

to influence ; to dircft.

am at prcfeni »%aia& war, though it putt the

[gcuieinement, Fr.]

Form of a community with refpeft to the

There feem to be but two general kinds of ^overnment in the world the one exercifed according
to the arbitrary commands and will of fome iingle
perfon; and the other according to certain orders or
laws introduced by agreement or cultom, and not
to be changed without the confent of many, ^temple.
No governtnent can do any adt to limit itfclf: the
fupreme legillative power cannot make itfelf not to

[gouveruer, French

in the governor than the governed j as a malady in a/
vital part is more incurable than in an external.
Spenfer on Ireland.

;
a direftrefs.
Great affliction that fevere governefs of the life of
man brings upon thofc fouls Ihe fcixes on.
More againjl Alhelfm,

difpofition of the fupreme authority.

To rule as a chief magiftrate.
This inconvenience

Drayton'i Njmfbid.
The fimf goffamtr now flits no more.
Nor halcyons bjflc on ihe fliort funny Dioie. Dryden.

A tutorefs; an inftruftrefs

Go'vERNMENT. V.f,

Load fafe, carry home, follow time being fair.
Cove juft in the barn, it is out of defpair.
Tuffer.

1.

and hir governance,

Sptifer,
him recurred to a better will.
What! ftiall King Henry be » pupil ftill,
»
Under the furly Glolfcr's governance f
Shakcf^^
Ohfolete.
3. Behaviour; manners.
I

Col by fierce whirlwinds, and in thunder born.

Ttiejr hameffes of g'.jfamcrt.

\

Me he knew not, nticher his own ill,

guberno, Latin.]
Siaktff.

Four nimble gnats the horfes were,

tifm.

If he behaves himfelf fo

"u. a.

management.

2. Controul, as that of a guardian.

when he is got above the world }
A) buibnot.
Thou wcrt from .£tna*S burning entrails torn.

That idles in the wanton Summer air.

tion, affinity;

more

for his daily bread, can any

To GO'VERN.

A lovo- may beftride thcgrffamour.

I,

valour in

.\ gentle petfualion in reafoning, when the tirll
point ot fubmiflion to your will is got, will moft
times do.
Locke.

Hanmer.

;

Jonathan look the governance upon him at that
time, and rofe up inliead of his brother Judas.
I 'fac. ix. 31.

word is gonjtrnefs.
for their

than he did the viflory of others^©/ by good foriune,
not grounded upon any good reafon.
Knotles.

office,

Government;, rule

1.

Temp/e.

Have trodden down our holy Roman faith.
Ro%ue.
Co'ssAMER. «. /. [gj/ipium, low Latin.]
The down of plants the long white cobwebs which fly in the air in calm funny
weather, efpecially about the time of

n.f. [from

Governance, n.f. \Jtom gii-vern.'\

'Till through wife handling,

their evil haps, in a plot fo well by them laid,

Shateff.

GO'SSIP.

former p.wt of a man's
grown up to be headllrong, makes it
Locke,
more governable and fafe.

•

Solyman commended them

Go'spELLER. v.f. SStQia. gofpel.'\ A name
of the followers of Wickliffe, who firft

And yet not fall, fo light is vanity.

Ainfiu.

Got part. paff. oi get.

Arc you fo goffelVd
To pray for this good man, and for his ilTue,
Whofe heavy hand hath bow'd you 10 the grave ?

attempted a reformation from popery,
given them by the Papifts in reproach,
from their profefling to follow and preach
only the gofpel.

Siak.^

Titus Lartius writes, they fought together ; but
Aufidius got off.
Sbakefp. Curlolaiui.
If you have ftreiigth Achilles' arms 10 bear.
Though foul Therfites got thee, thou fhalt be
Lov'd and etfeem'd.
Drydert^t fuvenal.
Thefe regions and this realm my wars have got ;
This mournful empire is the lofer's lot.
Diyden.
When they began to reafon about the means how
the fea got thither, and away back again, there ihey
were prefently in the dark, ffoodivard't Nat. Hift.

:

Autumn.

The flexiblenefs of the

and the juror, that was goflip to
either of the parties, might, in former limes, have
been challei>ged as not indifferent.
Daviti.

found it, is ufed, though fo venerable in
with fome degree of irony I fuppofe from the gofpellers, who had long
bceen held in contempt.
itfclf,

dient ; manageable.

fpiriiual afHnity ;

whom alone I have

tiub-

age, not yet

Gfppied crcompaternity, by the canon law, is a

Go'sTlNC. n.f.l^rubia.l An herb.
Got, fret, [from the verh ge/.]

Uiovn go<vem.^

adj.

mifTive to authority; fubjeft to rule; obe-

To be a pot companion.

Go'ssipRED. n.f. [gcffiprj,ixom gofpp.'\

2. Divinity ; theology.

5o Go'sPEL. I', a. [from the noun.] To fill
with fentiments of religion. This word
in

Drydtrr,

Go'vERNABLE.

Laiv.

tion.

z.

the latter, being the condition of j'cripture-eletlion,
and the reje^ing, or not receiving him thus, the
HaamMj.
condition of the fcripture-reprobation.
How is a good Chriflian animated and cheered by
a nedfaft belief of the promifcs oilhzgoffill Btniley.

Shakeffeare,

By that rule,

Your wicked atoms may be working aow
To give bad counfel, that you ftill may governs

Nar met with fortune, other than at feaft.

Juach, happy tidings, Erfe.J
1. God's work; the holy book of the
Chriftian revelation.
Thus may iht gaff tl to the rifing fun
Be fpread, and flourilli where it firrt begun. Italitr.

in

fhip.

To Go'vERN. <v, n. To keep fuperiority i
to behave with haughtinefs.

ancient privilege.
Locke.
He gives himfelf up to an idle g'JJ'P'«g converfa-

n. f. [jobej- n»el, or God's or

tidings;

In our language evermore

Words \h^\. govern go before. l^lauger*s Fr. Gram,
5. To pilot ; to regulate the motions of a

Sbaiejp.

The market and exchange murt be left to their own
ways of talking ; and gti/fipings not be robbed of their

Vl^ra^gc.

GO'SPEL.

Liffen, children, unto me,

Co to a gollip's feart and gaude with me.
With all my heart, I'll gtffip at this feaft. Shak.
His mother was a votrefs of my order.

Full often hath fh; gtjjipi by my fide.

Shak,

govern her.

cufative cafe.

And, i;i the fpiccd Indian air by night,

Why do you go nodding and waggling fo like a fool,

;

[In grammar.] To have force with regard to fyntax : as, amo gcmems the ac-

fifii let this your leffon be.

:

aa if you were hipOiot i fays the goofe to htr gjling.

A katkin on nut-trees and pines.

Go after her, Ihe's defperate

HuJliras.

'Tis fung in ev'ry fVreet,

—

Atterbury.

and atflions.

To manage; to reftrain.

4.

One who runs about tattling like women

The common cliat ofgoj^ps when they meet. Drjd.
To Gossip, 'v.n. [from the noun.]
to be merry.
I, To chat ; to prate

full

Nafur« hath inifrufted even a brood of gojtingx
to (tick together, while the kite is hovering over
their headv
Svilfi.

fels, defigns,

3.

And be a guffip at his labour.

The obli^tion ot* our blood forbids

2.

A tippling companion.

at a lying-in.
To do the office of a neighbour,

Not in ufe.

, A gory emulation *twixt us twain.
Shakefp.
Co'sHAWK. n.f. [50J-, goofe, and jjapoc,
A hawk of a large kind.
a hawk.]

his

And Ibmetimes lurk I in ^ gofftp^s bowl.
In very likeaefs of a roafted crab.
And when (he drinks againll her lips I bob. Shakefp.

Sbakcff. Macbeth.
fatal.

Ormond

Daviesoi! Ireland.

g'ff'p!.

Thou cin'ft not fay I did it.
2. Bloody ; martherous ;

power into my hands, and though fuch turbulent
and naughty fpirits as you are, govern all things in
Davenant.
times of peace.
The chief point, which he is to carry always iit
his eye, and by which he is to govern all his coun-

Sbakefp.

After fo long grief fuch nativity.

voracious eater.

GoRSE.

GOV

Go to a f0f's feaft and gaudy with me,

be abfolute.
2.

Lrfley.

An eftablifhed ftate of legal authority.
There they fhall found
Tht'ir government, and their great fenate chufe
Through the twelve tribes, t* rule by liiws ordain'3.
Milton,

While

G O W

G O U
"While he furvires, in concord and conteot
I
The commonj live, by no divirtun rent
But the gre»I monarch'! death dilfolvej tlie gmrm-

Dry dm.

mrnt.

Every one knows, who has eonfidcred the nature
blgot'ertifnent^ that there muft be in each panicular
Aidifon.
form nt it an abfolute unlimited power.
Where any one perfon or body of men feize into
their handi the power in the laft refort, there is properly no longer a gnernmcnt, but what Ariftotle
and his followers call tlic abufc or corruption of one.

trtill.]

A pbnt.

1.

Each part depriv'd ot fupple g'jvernmtnt.
Shall Ills' and Hark, and cold appear, like death.
Shahtfptare.

Management of the limbs or body.

6.

The fruit of fome fpecies are

A bottle
Skinner.'l

Hill.

[from gourt,

snaintenance for an honeft minifter, fcatcely to buy
him a goiun.
Spenfer on Inland.
Girt in his Cabin go-wn the hero fat.
Dryden.
Yet not fuperior to her fei's cares.

The mode Ihe fixes by the gown (he wears
Of filks and china Ihe's the laft appeal
In thcfc gieat points fhe loads the common weal.
Young.

He Mars depos'd, ajid arms to ^ott'/rr made yield;
Succefsful councils did him foon approve
As fit for clofc intrigues as open field.

Dryden.

Go'wNED. adj. [from gtnvn.]

Dreffed in

a gown.

Farrier's Diil.

A noble crew about them waited round
Of fage and fober peers, all gravely giivn'd. .Spenfer.
in velvet white as fnow the troo^ v.- a% go^vn'd^

The fcams with fparkling emeralds fet around.
Dryden.

Go'wNMAiV. n.f.[gowi:n 3n& man.'] A man
devoted to the arts of peace ; one whofe
proper habit is a gown.
Let him with pedants

A filb.

GOUT. n.f. [goutte, French.]
The

1.

arthritis;

a periodical difeafe at-

Pore out his life amongft the \iz-j goivnmen.

tended with great pain.
braneous part, but commonly thofe which are at
the grealell dil^ance from the heart or the brain,
where the motion of the fluids is the floweft, the
reiiftance, friflion, and ftrifture of the folid parts
the jreatell, and the fenfation of pain, by the dilaccrationof the nervous fibres, extreme. ArbuthnotonDiet.

Influence with regard to

conftruftion.

Go'vERNOuR. n.f. [gaieverneur, French.]
J. One who has the fupreme direftion.

One that's tick o' th' gout, had rather
Groan fo in perplexity, than be cur'd

By the fure phyfician death.

mud be confefTed, that of ChriH, working as a

the mighty author and govrrnourot fuch Hupendous
hodies, and excite and elevate our minds 10 his

A drop, [gou/le, French; gri/ta, Latin.]

2.

Gut for Jroj) is

2. One who is inverted with fupreme au-

thority in a ftate.
For the kingdom is the Lord's and he is the go.
verncur imon% the nations.
Pf, «ii. i3.
The magillrate cannot urge obedience upon fuch
potent grounds as the minilfcr, if fo difpofed, can
urgedilbbedience: as, for indance, if my govtrnour
ihould command me to do a thing, or 1 muft die,
or forfeit my eflate ; and the minilter Heps in and
tells me, that 1 offend God, and ruin my foul, if I
obey that command, 'tis eafy to lee a greater force
in this perfuation.

Scuib.

3. One who rules any place with delegated

and temporary authority.
To you, lord gm'tntotirt
Kemains the cenlure of this hellilh villain. Sbakefp,
Atutor; one who has care of a young

4.

man.
To Eltam will I, where the young king is.
Being otdain'd his fpecial guvernovr ;

carriage, and form the

mmd

ufed in Scot.and by

fee thee ftill.

GOVT. n.f. [French.] A tallc. An afFcclcd
cant word.
Catalogues ferve for a direflion to any one that
has a gout for the like ftudies. kVoodtvard on Foffih.

Go'uTWORT. n. f.
grar/a.]

[gout and lusrl, fodaAn herb.
AiaJ-worth.

Afflifled or difeafed with the gout.
There dies not above one of a thoul'and of the
gout, although I believe that more diegou/y. Oraunt,
Knots upon his gouty joints appear.
And chalk is in his crippled tingers found. Dryden.
Mort commonly a gouty conftitution is attended

1.

with great acutcnefs of parts, the nervous fibres,
both in the brain and the other extremities, being
delicate.
Artuthmt on Diet.

Relating to the gout.

^^'^^
regulator ; manager.

Behold all the Ihips, which though they be fo
great, and arc driven of hcrce winds, yet they are
Curr.ed about with a very Imall helm, whitherfoever
the gyt'trnour tilleth.

jftt. iii.

4.

GOUGE, n.f. [French.] A chiflel having
a round edge,

for the cutting of fuch

the ground.

liljckmore^

GOWN. n.f. [gonna, Italian; ^it;//,WelIh
I .

Ainfworth.

GRACE, n.f. [grace, French; gratia, Litin ; graace, Erfe.]

Favour; kindncfs.

1.

and Erfe. ]
A long upper garment.
Thev make garments either (hort,
as gotvtit, long to the ground.

no bafe perfon

may afpirc

then may 1 Ijope your beauty svill not be
without pity.
Sidney.
momentary grace of mortal men.
Which we more hunt lor than the grace of God !
Sbakefp,
Such as were popular.

O

And well deferving, wereadvanc'd bygr«rt. Z)<i»;V/.
Is this

the reward and thanks

I

am to have for

thofe many aits of grace I have lately parted ?

JCing Cbat leu

Such grace (hall one juft man find in hrs fight.

That he relents, not to blot out mankind.

Milion.

He receiv'd all the graces and degrees, the proctorlhip and the doctorlhip could be obtained there.
Clarendon.

Or each, or all, m.iy win a lady's ^racei
Then cither of you knights may well defcive

A princcfs born.

Drydm's Fables.

None of us, who now your grace implore
But held the rank of fov'reign queen before. Dryden.
Pioflcr'd fcrvice

There are likewife other caufcs of blood fpitting;
ftancc of the lungs.

To lie proftrate on

a.

Yet thofe remov'd,

one is the fcttlement of a gouty matter in the fub-

I^ocke.

my very entraiU.
ArhutbnoCi 'Joltn Bull

To Gra'bble. i>.

Go'uTY. adj. [from_fo»/.]

2.

^

to grace,

good habits, and the principles ol virtue and wifdom.

During the minority of kings, the elcAion of
hiHiops, and other atfaiis of the church, mu/t be Left
in the bands ot their gavernouri and courtiers.

My blood chills about my heart at the thought
of thefe rogues, with their bloody hands graibling

If the liigheft love in
I

And on the blade o' th' dudgeon ^iw/j of blood.
Which was not fo before.
Sbakefp. Macbeth

to fettle in his pupil

;

itom grapple .']
with the hands.

phyficians.

'

And lor his fafety there I'll beft dcvife.
Siakefp.
The great work of a goijernoi/r is to fafhion the

ftill

Svi/i.

[probably corrupted
To grope; t» feel eagerly

in my guts, and pulling out

VVith rheumatifms, and crippled with hts^i-w.
Forgets what he in youthful times has done
And fwinges his own vices in his fon.
Dryden.

BeMtly.

adontion and praife.

upon the court for a morfel of bread.

7«Gra'bble. 11. n.

Shak. Cymbeline.

This very reverend lecher, quite worn out

creator and a govemour of the world by providence,
Hooier,
all are f Irtakers.
They beget in us a great idea and veneration of

Roue.

Ilius will that whole bench, in an age or two,
be compofed of mean, fawning^cTc/ffmen, dependant*

The^oW is a difeafe which may aScSt any mem-

[In grammar.]

The drefs of peace.

4.

:

Their god

c. Pilot ;

The benefices themfelves are fo mean in Irirti
counties, that they will not yield any competent

French.

old

fcooped hollow, for the purpofe of containing and carrying wine, and other liquors from thence any leathern bottle
grew to be called by the fame name, and
fo the word is ufed by Chaucer. Hanmer.
Gou'rdiness. u. /. [from gourd.'\ A
fwelling in a horfe's leg after a journey.

Ob-

^"f-

The long habit of a man dedicated to

3.

The large fruit fo called is often

GouRNET. n.f. [cuculas.']

fee you drel1i»i ia

I

afts of peace, as divinity, medicine, law.

are ufed in emulfions.

2.

'till

.

Miller.
But I will hafte, and from each bough and brake.
Each plant, and juiciell gourd, will pluck fuch choice
Millon'i Par. Ltft.
To entertain our angel-giieft.
Gourd feeds abound fo much in oil, that a fweet
and pleafant one may be drawn from thence by txprelUon ; they are of the four greater cold feeds, and

Shot many a dart at me with fit rce intent j
•But 1 them warded all with vi^x'j govtrnment.SpenJer.

It

I defpife your ntvi gceun,
'*;

long, of others round, or bottle ftiaped.

folete.

7.

A woman's upper garment.

2.

\goujf,

»./.

Gourd, n.f. [gouhorde, French.]

SvLiift.

5. Manageablencfs i compliance; obfequioufnefs.
Thy eyes windows fall.
Like death, when he Ihutsup the day of life;

Moxon.
French; a camp
The French difeafe.
Hanmer.

Go'ujERES.

3. Admlnillration of publicic affairs.
Safety and equal j»trr«rM^^r are things
Which lubjc^s make as happy as their ki rtgs. H'aller,
Thofe rnr'nmtitli which curb not evils, caufe ;
Young,
And a rich knave's a libel on our laws.
4. Regularity of behaviour. Not in ufe.
You needs mull learn, lord, to amend this fault
Though fometimes it Ihews greatnefs, courage, blood,
Yet oftentimes it doth prefent harlh rage,
Defedl of manners, wint oigovernment ^
Pride, haughiliiefs, opinion, and difdain. Shakt[j>.
'Tii gc-vernment that makes them fccm divine ;
The want thereof makes thee abominable. Shjkefp.

G R A

wood as is to be rounded or hollowed.

I

lepaid the

fair.

That of her grace ihe gave her maid to know

The fciret meaning of this moral Ihow.
2. Favourable influence of

Drydern.

God on the hu-

man mind.
The grace of God, that padith underftanding,
keep your hearts and minds.
Common Prayer.

as cloaks, or,

Abbot.

If ever I faid a loofcbodied gov:n, few me up in
the Ikirts of it, and beat mc to death with a bottom
of brown thread ; 1 faid a gvwn.
Shakrfp.
In length of train dcfcends her fweepingyc-u'/i.

The evil of lin is that we are efpecially to pray
againft, moll earncftly begging of God, that he wili,
by the power of his ^lar^, preferve us from falling
into fin.

And by lict graceful walk, (he ^ucca of love is known.
Dryden.

Duty of Man.

Pr«venientgr<7«defcenditig had remov'd
The (tony from their hearts, and made new flefh
Regenerate grow inllead.
Milton.

8.

Virtue ; eifed of God's influence.
Withia

GR A
truly good and fandtified, and

Sbak. Henry IV.
Tnat he will give you audience.
High and mighty king, -jow grace, and ihofe your

herealter faved ; and

to bow your
Bacon's HennyyW.
According to the ufual proceeding ot your grace
and of the court, with delin<)uenis which are overtaken wiih error in fimplicity, there was yielded unto
him a deliberate, patient, and full hewing, together
with a fatisfadlory anfwer to all bis main objcitiors.

together with them other perfons void of ail faving
^racff and hereafter to be damaed.
Fcarfon,
How Van wants gracf who never wanted wit.
Pope.

Pardon

4.

;

nobles here prefent,

mercf.

Bow and fue for grace

pleafed

Miiton,

Would you be fo kind as to go in my place.

Pyior,

A fiiort prayer faid before and after

Then cheerful healths, your miftttfs (hall have

To few great Jupiter imparts this grace.
DryJiti.
goddefs,
by
the
heathens
A
fuppofed
to
•J.
beftow beauty.
This forehead, where your «rfe has faid
The loves delighted and the gracet play'd.

Prhr.

Behaviour, confidered as decent or un-

becoming.
The fame words in Philoclea's mouth, as from
one woman to another, fo as there were no other

1.

To adorn; to dignify; to embellith ;
to recommend ; to decorate.
this they

praftice,

this

And pcrfon up to his embraces.

Sbake/peare's Othelh.
Theie ii due from the judge to the advocate fome
commendation and gracing, wh*re caufes art well
handled.
Bacon.

If hell and treafon hold their promifes.

Hbakefpeare,

14. Single or particular virtue.
The king-becoming fiae»,

By both his parents of defcent divine ;
Great Jove and Phtebus^rac'^/his nobler line. Pope.

Devotion, patience, courage, fortitude,
I have no relilh for them.
Hhakejp. Macbeth.

The gtacn of hn religion prepare him for the moll
ufeful diKharge of every relation of lite.
Rtgers.

15. Virtue phyfical.
O, mickle is the pow'rful grace that liet
In plants, herbs, ftones, andUtcir true aualiiies.
.

The title of a duke

^hakeffeart.

or archbilhop ;

formerly of the king, meaning the fame
atycar gcodneft, 01 yfurclemtncy.
Here come J from oar priavclygeneial.
'
Vet. J.

fmall.

Dtii.

V

Dia.

Graci'lity.«

Though triumphs were to generals only due.

1.

barous or cruel,

he would in court.

Knollei.

ledge, ire two of the molt amiable thingi.

2.

Difpofe all honours of the fword and gun,

A gracious beam of light from now infpire
My tongue to fing, my hand to touch the lyre.

her o'er, nor grac'd with kind

;

Dryd.

Gra'ced. ai//, [from grace.]
J. Beautiful; graceful.
Not in ufe.

Priori

Acceptable ; favoured.
Doftrineis much more profitable »d6 gracious, by

3.

He faw this gentleman, one of the properell and
\x& graced men thu tnc I Ciw, being of a middle
Sidney.

Not in ufe

Make it more like a tavern or a brothel.
Than a grac'd palace.
.Sbakifp, King I^ar.
Gra'ceful.(7-j)'. [from ^r«<-e. J
Beautiful
with dignity.
Amid the troops, and like iheleading cod,
,
Matchlefs his pen, vifloriouj was his lance
;
Bold in the lifts, and graceful in the dance.
Pope.
Ytt graceful mk, and Iweetnels void of pride,
Might hide her faults, if belles hadfauluto hiJe.
Pope.

Graceful to fight, and elegant to thought.

The great are vonquifli'd, and the wife are uught.
Young.

Gra'cefully. oi/f, [ftom gmcf/u/. [Elegantly; withpleafing dignity.
Through nature and through art <he rang'd.

And graceful^ her fubjcft chang'd.

'^'^

CbapmoH,

From now reveal

Theircourteous hoft faluling all the crew,

Virtuous; regular; chafte.

z Kings, x\\\, ti,

Unblam'd Ulyfles' houfe,
In which I find receipt fo gracious,

age and a mean llature.

Burner.

Favourable ; kind.
And the Lord was gracious unto them, and had
compaflion on them.

Diyden.

To favour.
When the guelh withdrew,

2.

Sotcrb.

To be good and gracious, and a lorer of know,

And daily ^rtfrerfby the emperor.
Siai.
He might at hit plcafure grace or difgrace whom

Regardlefs pali'd

Merciful; Benevolent.

Common fenfe and reafon could not btlt tell fh'em,
that the good and graciout Cod could not \k pltofed,
nor confcquently worlhippcd, with' any thing bar-

He writes

Grace with a sod, and ruin with a frown,

Latin. ]Skn-

dernefs ; fmallnefs.

How happily he lives, how well belov'd,

3.

f. [graciliias,

GRA'CIOUS. adj. [gracleux, French.]

Crowns were rclcrv'd to grace the foldicrs too. Pofe.
2. To dignify or raife by an ad of favour.

High o'er the reft in arm»the^iarr/i(/Turnu»rode.
Dryd.

As Juftice, verity, ttmp'rancc, lUbleneft,

Hudilira>.

Latin.] Slender

[^rflf/'//>,

GnA'ciLENT.ffijy. [jgracilefitui,LSii.'\ Lean.

Uryd,n.

Epicutifra and luA

Ipals their form and every charming jr«». Dryd.
13. Ornament; flower; higheft perfcftion.
By their hands this grace of kings muft die.

Gra'cile. adj,

Rich crowns wene on their royal fcutcheons pljc'd,

With faphires, diamonds, and with rubies ^^c'l/.

Sfttijer,

12. Single beauty.

r

Her goods and chattels, and good^r^cer.

adieu.

Dryd.

feldom ufed in the lingular.
Demand deir 'ry of her heart.

Sbjkr/p,

In fpeaking for myfclf.

li. Embellilhment ; recommendation; bcau-

A (hort-hv'd good, and an uncertain grace.

,

And therefore little Ihall I grace my caufe.

whom God

Dryd.

they

Hooker.

Little of this great world can 1 fpeak.

To write and fpeak correflly gives a grace and
gaioi a favourable attention to what one has to fay.

Set all things in their own peculiar place.
And know that order is the greaied grace.
The flow'r which lafts for little fpace,

This gracelefs man, for furtherance of his guile.
Did court the handmaid of my lady dear,
Spenfer,
V^'hofe hap (hall be to have her*

More daring, or moro bold is now alive.

DryJ. Xn.

Where julVice grows, there grows the grcater^rac,.

doned.

Will not iagraceltfs be, to be ingrate. Shakefpeare.
In all manner ol^ri»c^/^r and hopelefs characters,

To grace this latter age with noble deeds.

On her fmooih Ihoulders, and fo fuiu her face.

The which doth quench the brand of hellnh fmart.

grace ; wicked ; hopelefly corrupt ; aban-

Ihc

fome are lolt for want of advice, and others for want
of heed.
L' EJlrange.
Furnifh'd for offence, he crofs'd the way,
Betwixt the ^ia«/yt villain and his prey. DryJeit.
Gra'ces. n. f. Good graces for favour i».

This they Ifudy,

Her purple habits fiu with fuch igrace.

Svi'tff.

Void of

Prior.

grace with a wanton fuperfluity of wit.
1 do not think a braver gentleman.

HarU.

hath endued with^r^rer both of wit and learning,
tor better purpofcs.
Hooker.
Tofome kind of men,
Their gracei ferve them but as enemies.
Sbakeff,
Inhis oviagraceYit doth exalthimfelf
More than in your advancement.
Sbakeff,
The charming Laufus, full of youthful fire.
To Turnus only fecond in the grace
Of manly mien, and teaturesot the face.
DryJnt,

VlhWc gracefulnrfs its art conceals,

And yet through ev'ry motion deals.
Gra'celess. adj. [from grace.l

Pope.

Jove thought it time to Ihew his play.

One lilac only, with aftatelier^arr,
Prefura'd toclaim the oak's and cedar's place ;
And, looking round him with a monarch's care.

lency Ihould be thus bitten at by men

Breaks like the fun behind a cloud ;

Ta Grace, -v. a. [from the noun.]

Adventitious or artificial beauty; plealing appearance.

Lxki.
10. Natural excellence.
It doth grieve me, that things of principal eicel-

Which, though her modefty would fhroud.

place ;

And what's more rare, a poet (liall fay grace.
Grace-cut. n, /. fgrace and <«/.]
cup or health drank after grace.
The ^.rr-f.f »^ fcrv'd, the cloth away,

body by, might have had a better j>a«, and perchance have found a gentler receipt.
Sidney.
Have 1 reafon or good grace in what I do ?
Temple.

Spread his eulied boughs to wave in air.

Proceeds that fund of wit and feiife,

S-wifi.

6. Privilege.
But to return and view the cheerful Ikies,

_,

His neck, hishandj, his (houlders, and his bread,

Did next \n ^racefulnefs iwi beauty iiand
Drydcn't Ovid,
Heexecutcd with fd mach gracrfulnefi and beauty^
that he alone got money and reputation.
Drydtn,
There is a fecrct gracefubufs of youth whicK
accompanies his writings, though the llaidnefs and
fobriety of age be wanting. Dryden'sOvid, Preface.
If hearer^ are araai'd from whence

To breathing figures.

Their talk at table, and their thanks at end. &hak.
While grace is faying after meat, do you and y.our
brethren take the chairs from behind the company.

] Oiould therefore efteem it great favour and ^raf^,

H'ntis's L'.g f-''.

Elegance of manner ; dignity with beauty.

Your foldicrs ufe him as thegM« 'fore meat.

Favour conferred.

16.

mode (iipcradded to that action.

meat.

With fuppliant knee.

9.

be

walking gracefully implies anlmreror

Gra'cefulness. ft. J, [from grncefuL]

mhe.

17.

8.

may

beaft ; but

ears.

Noble pity held
His hand a while, and to their choice give fpace
Which they would prove, his valour or his grace.

5.

G R A

G R A
To know yoW griefs? to tell you from his grace,

With'in the church, in the publicic pr.:>f'clIion and
cxiernal communion tliereof, are contained perfens

Jti'///.

WaUiingii (he mode ur Dikmei ofoiani or

example than by rule.

Spenfer,

He made us gracious before the kings of Perfia,
fo that theygave us food.

i Efdr. viii.

80.

Coring, who was now general of the borfe, was na
more gracious to prince Rupert than Wilmot ha4
been.
Clarendon,

4. VirttJous; good.
Kings arc no left unhappy, their iflue not being
gracious, than they arc inloling them when they have
approved their virtues,
Shakefp. Ifinter' stale.
3. Excellent.

Obfolete.

The grievous abufc which^hatli been ofcouncilt^
Ihould rather caufe men to itudy how Co gracious a
thing may again be reduced to that hrft perfection.
Hooker,

6. Graceful ; becoming.
Obfoletc.
Our women's names arc more gracious than tlxir
Rutilia, tkat is red head.
Camden.
Gra'ciously. ad-v, [from^)v7f/V»j.]
I.

Kindly; with kindcondefccnflon.

His teltimony he graciotijly confirmed, -ihat it wtc
Dryd.
thebellof all my tragedies.
He heard my vows, and ^r.rr/0//^ decreed
My grounds to be ledorcd, mjf lorincr Hocks to feed.

ot a

Dtjden.

it

u

G R A

G R A

If her majedy would bat gracloujly be c\eai(cd to
ihink a haidlhip of this Datute woiiiiy her toyal

John Tregonwel graduated a AoGor tnd dabbed a
knight, did good fcivice. Carfti'i Surv. ofCi^rnvj.

Sv.i/l

Concerning columns and other adjunfts, architects
a noife, as if the terms of architraves
frizes, and cornices, were enough to graduate^ maffVotun
ter of this art.

Thefe are th' Italian names which fatej will join
With outs, and graff Mfoa the Trojan line. Dryd.
impregnate with an adftititious
4.

G R A
confidcralion.

make fuch

In a pleafing manner.

2.

Cra'ciousness. »./. [(torn gracious.]
1. Kind condefcenfion.
The gracioufnefs and temper of this anfiver made
Pleafing manner.

2.

Grada'tion.

». /.

French;

[gradation,

gradus, Latin.]
1. Regular progtefs from one degree to
another.

The defire of more and more rifes by a nadinl
gradaliin to moft, and after that to all. L.Efiraiig<.

Rcgnlar advance ftep by ftcp.

2.

"By cold graiation, and well balanc'd forffli
Shakefp.
'%Velhallproreed with Aagelo.

The pfalmill very elct;anily exprefleih to us the
it\exs.\ gr3ii.it:crs by which men aclaft come to (his
liUotJon.

horrid degree ot impiety.

Order

3.

;

Deibam.

Toraife to a higher place in the fcale of

3.

a chemical term.
The tinflure was capable to trinfmute ot graduate
as much lilver as equalled in weight that gold. BayU.

metals

fequence ; feries.

* Tis the curfe of lervice ;
Preferment goes by letter and afifcttion.
Not, as of old, gradjiisx, where each fecond
ShakfJptare'tOliielio.
Stood heir toth'lirlh

4. Regular procefs of argument.
Certain it is, by a direS gradalinn, of confequences from this principle ot merit, that the obligation to gratitude flows from, and is enjoined by
the firft dictates of nature.

Soutt.

_

Gra'uatory. w./. [^ra^«/, Latin.] Steps

To heighten

4.

'

;

an academical degree.
Oi graduata I dillike the learned rout,
Bramjlon.
And cliufc a female dollar for the gout.

Gradua'tion. n./. [gradual ion, Ynndn.]
from graduate^
1. Regular progreffioii by fucceffion of degrees.

Amongft tho(c gradient automata, that iron fpider
isefpecially remarkable, which, being but ofan ordinary bigncfs, did creep up and down as if it had

Improrement ; exaltation of qualities.
Of greater repugnancy unto reafon k that

ffilkim.

been alive.

GRA'DUAL. adj. [graduel, French.] Proceeding by degrees ; advancing ftep by
ftep ; From one ftage to another.
Nobler birth

Of creatures animate' with gradual life.
Of growth, fcnfe, teafoo, all fumm'd up in man.

The aft of conferring academical de-

but bearing its own fruit ; ayoungcyon.
God gave unto man all kinds of feeds andgivj^of
; as the vegetative life of plants, the fenlual of
beads, the rational of man, and the intelledlual of
Raleigh.
angels.
It is likely, that a; in fruit-trees l\\t graft makclh
greater
fruit,
fo
trees
that
bear
no
truit
it will
a
in

life

Re-

If you cover the lop with clay and hoi'lc-dung, in
the fame manner as you do a graft, it will help to
heal the fooner.
Mori.

gular progreflion.
This lome afcribe unto the mixture of the elements, othei» to the gradualiiy of opacity and light.

Now the cleft rind inferred graffs receives.

greater denfity in diving, and of much lefs upon the
tops of mountains, provided the changes be made

Unbcaring branches from their head.
And graft more happy in their Read.

His growth is but a wild and fruitlefs plant
I'll cut his bairren

2.

To propagate oy iufertion or inoculaNow let me jrij^my pears and prune the vine.

eifically differ from the lantalUck rcafon oi biutcs.

Drydtn.

Grew.
3.

To infert into a place or body to which
it

did ryat originally belong.

Drank of the fticam as clear as cryftal glafs. Sfenf,

GRAIN. ». /

[graine,

French ; granum,

Latin ; gram, Italian, has all the following fignifications,]

A fingle feed of corn.

1.

And fay which grain will grow, and which will not.
His teafons are as two |fra/Hr of wheat hid in two
bulhelsof chaff. Shakeffeare's Merchant of Venice,
Let them pronounce the deep Tarpeian death.

Vagabond exile, flaying, pent to linger
But with a grain a day, I would not buy
Their mercy at the price of one fair word

Shatefp,

.

Manyofthe ears, being fix inches long, had fixiy
grains in them, and none lefj than forty. Mortimer.

Corn.

2.

As it ebbs the fcedfman
Upon the (lime and ooze fcattcrs his grain.
Sbakefp.

And Ihortly comes to harveft.

Pales no longer fwell'd the teeming grain.
Dryden,
Nor Phcebus fed his oxen on the plain.
'
Hs a rich foil, I grant you ; but oft'ner covered
Collier on Fame.

with weeds than grain.
feed of any fruit.

The
4. Any minute particle
3.

;

any ftngle body.

Thoucxift'rton many thoufand^'jj.w
Siukeff. Mcaf. far Mtaf.
That ilTuc out of dull.

By intelligence
And proofs zi clear as founts in July, when
5.

We fee tv:\\grain of grav.-l. Shakrfp. Henry VIII.
The fmalleft weight, of which in phyfick twenty make a fcruple. and in Troy
weight twenty four make a pennyweight
a grain

fo named becaufe it

is

fuppofed

of equsd. weight with a grain of corn.

"

a precious diamond, whole grains as
ilo'yday.
they double, twic^ double in their v,i!ue.
They began at a known body, a barley-corn, tlie
grain
called
a
; which
wtvglii whereof is therefore
is

arifcth, being multiplied, to fia-uples, drachms, oun»

Holder.

CCS and pounds.

The trial being made betwixt lead and lead, weigh-

m

the air j the balance
the water weighing only four drachms and forty,
one grains, and abatcth of the weight in the air two
dr.ichms and nineteen j«i«J : the balance kept'thc
ing feverally fcvcn dtdchms,
ill

And they alio, if they bide not
God is abk to graff theiii in
Hill

in unbelief,

(hall be graged lu } for

again.

Small

particles of any kind.
Hereof tliis gentle knight unweeting was.
And lying down upon the fandy grailr.

lliiity

Dryden.

tion.

Human rcafon doth not only gradually, but fpe-

£(y.

branches to the ftock,
.

i. In denee.

To dignify with a degree in the univer-

Grau,. u.f. [from grele, French.]

French.]

To Graft. } [^"S^ff^''
1. To infert a cyon or branch of one tree
into the ftock of another.
And graft you on to bear.
Dryd. Dsn Sehafl.
With t^is pruning hookdii^join'd

1 .

am informed, by the trials of the mod (kilful

grafters of thefe parts, that a man (hall feldom fail
of having cherries borne by his graft the fame year
Evelyn.
in which the Infition is made.

Pel-e.

The Author of our being weans us gradually from
our fondoefs of life the nearer we approach towards
Swift.
the c-ad of it.
Human creatures are able to bear air of much

gradui, Latin.]

who propagates fruit by grafting.

And yields an of^pring more Uian nature gives.

Brawn.

Tt GRA'DUATE. v. a. [graduer, French ;

Bacon.

Gra'fter. n.f. [ixom graff or graft.] One

make the greater leaves.
Bacun.
'Tis ufual now an inmate graff to fee
With infolencc invade a foreign tree. Dryd'n'sVirg.

nrydal.

Arbulhnol.

whereas, if you gr<j/> but upon one llock, the

tiee can bear but few.

Shakefpeare.

of another tree, and nourilhed by its fap,

.

gradualiy.

fruit J

Loo'x into'the feeds of time.

Graff, 7 »•/• [greffe, French.] A fmall
Graft, 5 branch inferred into the ftock

Before the gradual proftrate they ador'd.
The pavement kifs'd, and thus the taint imploi 'J.

Vvhen the moon paiSt over the fined Itars, tnJ
ef lipfes tltcm, your light vauiihes ; not gradually,
Nnvun.
like that of the planets, but all at once.

See

Clarendon.

An or-

;

i

In March is good graffing the (kilful do kn6w.
So long as the wind in the Eaft do not blow :
From rnoon being changed, 'till pad be the prime,
for graffing and cropping is very good time. Tujfer.
To hAve fruit in greater plenty the way is to graft,
not only upon young docks, but upon divers boughs
of an old trce» for they will bear great numbcis of

walls were good, and the ^rj^broad and deep.

Men flill fuppofe a graduaJ natural progrcfsof

Gra'doally. ad-v. [horn gradual.']
in regular progreflion.
It By degrees

ditch; a moat.

Though the fortifications were not regular, yetths

things; as that, from great, things and peifonslhould
grow greater, 'till at length, by many fteps and afSoaii.
•cents they come to be at greaieli.

[(xora gradual. '\

May 01 e kind 'rave unite each hapleCs name.
And graft my love immortal on thy fame.
Pafe.
To Gr a F "v. n. To praftice infition.

degrees.

Graff. », y; A
Grave.

Milicn.

Gra'du A L. »./, [gradus, Latin.]

This refulution againd any peace with Spain is a
new incident p-r.i/?c</ upon the original quarrel, by
.Vw;/>.
the intrigues of a tadion among us.

wliich

he delivers concerning its graduation, that heated
in fire, and often extingullhed in oyl of mars or
iron, the loadllone acquires an ability to estradl a
Broiun.
nail fartened in a wall.
3.

port from another.

I

of the parts of the univerfe is
likewifc neceiTary to the perfedtion of the whole.
Grexu,
2.

not

Be grafted to your relifti. Shateffteare's Coriulanat,
The noble ifle doth want her proper limbs
Her royal ftock gr.tft with ignoble plants. Sliakefp.
5. To join one thing fo as to receive fup-

•

'X\\t graduation

GKA'oitvT.aJj. [gradieut.lAtla.] Walking ; moving by fteps.

Gradua'lity, a./,

to improve.

Gra'duate. »./. [^(W««, French from
gra.his, Latin.]
A man dignified with

Ainfivorih.

-

der of fteps.

;

Not only vitriol is a Caiife of blackriefs, but the
and dyers advance and piiiduJle theircolours with falts. Brnun'i Vulgar trr.

from the cloillers into the church.

•

:

falts of natural bodies:

From thence

•t..

.

Tlie places were marked
the fevered cold and greateft heat, and according to
thefe obfervations he graduates his thermometers.

where the fptrits Rood at

Clartndon.

no iropreirion on them.

"

To mark with degrees.

2.

To

branch.
We've Tome old crab-trees here at home, that will

Rinuvtt,

f,inie

depth' in tlie water.

B^o^i.

Hii

G R A

G R A

Hij bmin

OutWci^hM his rage but half igraiu.
6. Any thing proverbially fmall.

GRA!!fs.»./ [without

HuJiiras.

HulTcs, drjft' to drink and fwill.

Grains
Latin.]

Hammond,

adtions,

the facrcd fcience of theology.

GRAMINEOUS,
Graffy.

adj.

Gramineous

The beech, the fwimming alder, and the plane.
Hard box, and linden of a fofter jr«/w.
Dryden.
10. The body confidered with refpeft to
the form or direftion of the conttituent

TU-'
The

_

]

The fcience of fpeaking correftly

1

art which teaches

the relations

;

the

Granate. ;,./.
marked

GRAND, adj. [grand.

allow to fpeak but by the rules

.,,,..

How the red rofes flufti up in her cheeks.
Like crimibn dy'd in grain.
Over his lucid armi

rules of that language,

make them grammar.
Milion.
3.

Shadow'd from either heel with feather'd mail,
Sky-tinftur'd grain f
Mi/tan; Paradift V-Jl.

Temper; difpofition inclination ; humour from the diredlion of fibres.
Ymr minds, pre-occupied with what

^ ...
Quoth
Hudibras,

in vain,

1 (ec, to argue 'gainft the grain.
Hitdiiras.
Old clients, weaiy'd out with fruitjefs care,
Difmifs their hopes of eating, and defpai,
j
Though much agamft iht grain, foic'd to retire.

Buy roots for fupper, and provide a fire.
13. The bean; the bottom.

.

not

"

united in grain.

i,^.^,

Gramma tical.
1.

and
,t noo.l.erwi.e
than by breaking irs
rou.l,„el,,o a very fine
«.*/,, fc that the fcrat!he
and fretUDg, of the fuif.c.
become too fm.,!!
t^ b"

'""''''"

iaitght by grammar.

co.2u^i:^:;^.^Zrnit;;i^;l::c:r''"'
Orydcn's Duftefnoy.

,

hongb no* thi, grainid face of

Ileal.]

mine be hid
Sbakeff

adv.

[Uomgramma.

According to the rules or

or grammar.

fnow,

> el hath my night of Uf« fome memory.

1.

"

fcience

mother.

I meeting him,
will teli him that my lady
Was fairer than his^ra,^,,,,,, and as
chafte
As mav be in the world.

T

Shake/pear,.
fo^^f^hers and great grandaL
Al

v2r, us, as they were in
before

Chauc -rs days.

Thy tygrefs heart belies thy angel face

Too well thou Ihew'il ihy pedigree
i hy grandame-i was

Df.deV
"^
:

from (lone i

the fard by Pyrrha thrown.

An old withered woman.

''^

Cry-d, one and

all,

the fuppliant Ihould have

And to the gtandame hag adjudg'd the

Gra'ndchild. „./. [grand
I he

'"'

Md »ihci parucUs of

right.

knight.

znA^A

fon or daughter of my fon or

d.mirh-

one m the fecond degree of dcfcein.

ter ;

Auguftus Ca.far, out of indignation
ag.inft his
daug Iters and Agrippa his
grandchild, would fay
that they were not his feed,
but impollnumei broken

irom nim.
Thefe hymns may work on

«

future wits

and {a''"'
May great grandchildren ol tl,y prajfes grow.

Uonne.

He hoped his majcfty did believe, that
he would
never make the leaft fcruple
to

''"'"" '' ''''''''«"i'>'«d into the nouns.

'^
.K.
theverk., prooouir, adverts,

dame.l
mother's

Grandmother i ray father's or

The women

"'^"/•'k<;l-m,mbe,ofconro„ant,,no.from2e
^r<,««.a/,«/alphabeUof any language,
but from he
diverfity ol founds framed
by'lingfe ar'ticulali^^^'i':

^
Gramma'ticallv.
In .apconfun.iiig Wintei'i drizzled

Gra'ndam. n.f [grand ind dam or

2.

fet before their
ej.s and that taught them
w.th^ar more dil ien
Care than grammatica/ luUi
V!/'^"'

2.

Cod's fold.

exprefled with great dignity
6. It is ufed to fignify afccnt or
defcent of
conlanguinity.

[grammatical. Kr.

grammaiiaa, Latin.]
Belonging to grammar.
The beauty of v.riue (1,11 being

Milton.

1

Noble; fublime; lofty;
conceived'or

J.

JJrydni,

ad!,

;

Ihr, f,rc polMh

Soclomb this hrlt grand thief into

the torture o( gram'.

(

/

?"r«''5'"^f«. Satan.

<:

Sa^^s"'*'"'^'"'"'""*'* "-'i'^Pl^f.-fi
/-

Milton

1

an ill fcnfc.

Holdrr

They «l,o have called him

dale.

to fall off

Eminent; fuperiour: very frequently
in
'

4.

Many difputes the ambiguous nature
of letters halh
created among the grammarian^.

I

no othcrwife than by gratin?
and
and breaking the protuberances

Favour d 01 heav'n fo highly,

rrom their creator.

mar ; a philologer.

by which rhey con-

the ^lafs

Mov'J om grand parents in that happy

,

"f™"'"? fubftances are,

th: fmal er will be .he fcra'ches

What caufe

Gramma'rian. n.f. [grammoirien French;
Jrom grammar.] One who teaches
gram-

Haytvard.

14. The form of the furface with regard to
roughnsfs and fmoothnefs.
p'""'"',','^'' Pj^'j.''"

fibool I cannot encourage.

Tount

Principal; chief.

rela-

Thon haft moll traiteroudy corrupted
the youth of
therealm in ere<aing a grammar
Jch^l
hakef*
"'' ^''^ "^ '"'"'"S Latin in a grammar
AJ/ 1°

DtjJin

The one being traflable and mild, the other ftifF
«n4 impatient of a fuperior, they lived but in
cunning concord, as brothers glued together, but

The book that treats of the various

the learned languages are
grammatically

Shakejp.
it is

A voice has flown

tions of words to one another

Vou ralher muft do than with what you Ihould do,
Made you againft the grain to voice him coiiful.

the treei

To re-enflame a grand defigii.

Dryden.

Gra'mmar Sc/,00/. n.f. A fchool in which

;

Cod had planted, that is, made to grow

1- .
, r^
»
r I
2. Oreat ; fplendid ; magnificent.

fpeech

"^ "•""^'^'/""f'-'f'^!'"; i. the (liarpeft
cJ"!^"
latire that ever was made on
woman; for the adie«ives are neuter, and animu/
mull be underftood to

Miltm.

high in power or

life and knowledge,
plants only proper and becoming the paradile of lo grand a Lord.

3.

A military veil of purple tlow'd,

The third, his feet

of

do yet fpeak improperly of

Propriety or juflnefs of fpecch
;
according to grammar.

2.

illuftrious j

Raleigh's liiSory.

Dryden' t Dufrefnoy.

Sfenfer.

Uveller than melibaean, or the grain
Offarra, worn by kings and heroes old.
Come, penfive nun, devout and pure.
All in a robe of darkelt grain.
Flowing with majeftick train.

12.

ol grammar.

Men fpeaking language, according to tht: grammar

And the pure fnow with goodly vtrmil Ibiin,

Great ;

the

We make a countryman dumb, whom we will not

IVaodviard.

French ; grandis.

dignity.

Stonet of a conftitoticn fo coropafl,
fo fine, that they bear a fine poliih.

Died or ftained fubftance.

like

Latin.]

/>//

and a gtain

with fmall variegations
Otherwife Granite.

grains.

.

To be accurate in the grammar and idioms of

[horn granum.

Latinfj
A kind of marble fo called, becaufe
it is

to each other.
tongues, and then as a rhetorician
to make all their
graces lerve his eloquence.

I

,^

of words

tooth of a fea-horfe, in the midft of the
foUdor parts, contains a curdled grain not to be found
in ivory.
Bravjn.

fcra,ch.« ,

The naked nations deaths.
...
And be th" exhaufllefs granary of a world.

GRAMMAR,

The

away

Ants, by their labour and indullry,
contrive thaf
corn Will keep as dry in
their nells as in our g,ana'.

^'^'^-eating ; living upon grafs.

Sharfs Surgtry.
n. /. [grammaire. French;
grammatica, Latin ; Vf «(M,/*a7ixij.

A

itorehoufe for threfhcd corn.

[gramineus, Latin.]
plants are fuch as

ancients were verfed chiedy in Uiedlircdion
01 brutes, among which the graminivorsui
kind have
a party-coloured choroides.

particles.

,Jt

Gra'nary. „ f {granarium, Latin.]

Sptrftr.
what's the news > Sljak.

have a long leaf withoot a footftalk.

Toni^e and errant from bis courl'e of growth. Shak.
The body of the wood as modified by the

1 1

Gr..'mple. «./. Acrabf.(h.

Gram pus. n.f. K large fifh Ainf^orlh.'
of the ceta.

Graminivorous, adj. [^ramen and -varo,

fibres.

A

I

low grammarian.

a

have not vexed language with
the doubts, the
remark^, and eternal trifiing,
of the French gram,

ceous kind.

(^ramrrcj,, lovely Lucius,

IVait, oh the Mind.

Knots, by the conflux of meeting fap,
Infeft the found pine, and divert \i\s grain

K^ker

1

What ftrange adventure do ye now parfue ?

The direflion of the fibres of wood, or
other fibrous matter.

9.

mean verbal pedant ;

•

mull be feen with

and forgiving.
Addifin.
1 would always give fome f ra;Vf cfallaviame to

8.

naked and grummaiically true

GRAMMATICA'STER. „.f. [Latin

pnfe.

graim of ailavjann, cannot be too mild, moderate,
•

Ben 'Jonf.n

GRAME'Rcv./»/«y. [contrafted {xomgrnni
me mmy.l An obfolete expreflion ol fur-

of Allcnxiance.
Something indulged or remitted ; fomething above or
under the exaft weight.

IVatts
properly, fo it ij

inftrua how to do it eleganay.
by adding beauty to that language
that beftrre wis

Full of grains or kernels.

2.

Sautb.

Grain

faij to be aiij.

it

the partotrhctorick to

of Paradife. n. f. \cardamomum.
An Indian fpicc,

Full of com.

1.

is

As grammar teai.heth us to fpeak

lyled grammatically.

Gra'iny. adj. [from grain.']

The ungrateful perfon lives to himfelf, and lublirts
by the good-nature of others, of which he himfcll

He, whofe very bed

fpeech which compofe it, then

Giie them grains their fill,

ntrjledlsnot to make ufeof anygrain of grai;e.

hai not the lealt^rum,

The

hufks of malt exhaufted in brewing.

For ihe whole world before thee is aj a little fra/zi
of the balai cc.
IVj/J. xf. 21.
It 15 a lincerely plia''-,
du(£lile temper, that

Y-

G R A

a fingular.]

01 KinR j"""-».
lames.
,

.

6

t air daughter, and

_

obey the grandchild
/•'

j

ti.irend'>n,

thou fon and grandchild both

Milan.

G R A

G R A

G R A

families are not much

<ir»ndfathert in private
obfcrveJ to have great influence on their grandfat:.
And, I bcUcve, they have much lefs amouspiioces.
Sviift.

\U •(taping, with his goi! »n4 reli<jue» «*<!,
AnJ tow'rJs ihc Ihorcliis little jraiK/WxA/

led.

iJeicjm

G» a'n D A u c H T E B *./. [zronJ and daugh- GnANOt. It./, [grange, Fnach.] A farm
a fon or daughter.
ter.'] The daughter of

A m'lment elder than my rival fire,
Can chance of feeing lirll thy title piove >
they may take

:

dienitv.

fh«y

from neighbours.
unOne, when he had got the Inheritance of an

draw
lucky old grange, would needs fell it ; aud, to
nothing ever
buyers, pro<:laimcd the virtues of it:
blafted,
thrived on it, faith he ; the trees were all
of the murthe fwine died of the mealies, the cattle
and the fiieep of the rot; nothing was ever

...

JOdiBehad fome (h»rp«r and fomt ir.iUer
,

.

happen in fuel, an mt«rrencc, which might cal.ly
on the psrls *hich
v.rw ofif.w^w.bolh vehement
ij

.

f

krotton.

1

rain,

'"

When 1 "p""" Of S'"""''" rn'n'f'"* « ''"""S
them-

reared there, not a duckling or a goofe. Ben J'"!^"At the moated grange rtfides this dcjcited MaShakefftare.

fet about to make
f„ch . thing, men generally

felvesconfiieraWeforfuchlhinr.

Some parts of the Spanuh

^J'T^l

riana.

monarchy are rather

The loofe unletter'd hmds.

ftrength : «>«)' f"'""*?
for ornament than
""'J'V'
polb of ho^ourfor
„ya.ti» for the ^.and.., and

the nob.e families.

When for their teeming flocks and giawgw full
In wanton dance they praife the bounteous Pan.
Milton.

rr

j
Granbe'vity. «. /. \i^om grandavus,
DiS.
liic.
of
length
age;
Latin.] Great
Grande'vous, t,Jj. {grandavm, Latin.J
,

they
If the church was of their own foundation,
whemight chufe, the incumbent being once dead,
unlefs, perther they would put any one therein ;
to it ; for
haps, the faid church had people belonging
ot this
then they mud ftill maintain a curate: and

Uia.

Long lived of great age.
Gra'ndeur. »./. [French.]
;

fort were their gra»g« and

magniState; fplendour of appearance ;

I.

As"* magiftrate or great officer,
approaches by
felt from all

».*Elev«ion

Lat.

he locks hitn-

language

fcale of afcent.
and
One was faving that his greatgrandfather that
fa.d another
fe.»
t,andf.itbtr, and father died at
cocne
1 would never
heard hiro, 'an I were as you,
grandWhy, faith he, where did your great
at fea.
anHe
and father die ?
father, and grandfather,
He ^nlwered. an
their beds
tiaccn.

m

,

is valuable

for its

adj.

[granum and

for

Grandworks
burlefque
in
ufed
Only
mother.
warnOft my kind grannum told me, Tim take

Gra'nnam. »./. [ioT grandam.\

.

To GRANT. 1). a. [itom garantir, French,
Juniui and Skinner ; perhaps as Minjhnu

Thy gran4jire, <ud his brother, to whom fame
iheir
Gave Itom two conqutr'd patu o' th' world,
D,r,La>«.
name.

Dry den,

Gra'ntable.

\.

The

Almighty Jove augment yBdr wealthy ftor«,
Give much to you, and to \\\igrti«JJ<,iu more. Dryd.

gra}ii.'\

That

The office of the bilhop's chancellor vngrantaUt
Aytiffe.

[from grant.]
whom any grant is made.

Grante'e.

». /.

He to

To fmooth the way for popery in Mary's time,
the grantees were confirmed by the pope in the poffeflTion of the abby-lands.

Gra'ntor.

n. j.

whom a grant

is

[from grant.]
made.

f"^'/''
by
He

A duf'lex qumla ftiall not be granted under pain
of fufpenfion of the grantor from the execution of his
ofiice.

-."P''-^'!;

Gra'nulary. <7<^*. [ftorn granule.] Small
and corapaft ;

refembling a fmall grain or

feed.
Smalt-coal, with fulphur and nitre, proportion,
ably mixed, tempered, and formed into grannlary
bodies, do make up that powder which is ufed for
Broivn'i Vulgar Errours.
guns.

To admit that which is not yet proved
to allow ; to yield ; to concede.

1

[from

for liti:.

thinks, from ^ra/«//c, or rather from^'vz-

Prior.

adj.

which may be granted.

tiaox gratificor.^

and yi/r.]

admiffion of fomething in

difpute.
But of this fo Ut^A grant, we are content not to
Hooker.
take advanuge.
This gram deftroys all you have urg'd before.

^''y-

ing,

Ulake/p.

fon of a fon or daughter.

A thing is faid to lie in grant

4, Conceffion ;

'veto,

both
Panick affords a foft demulcent nourilhment,
Arbulhnot.
gtanivorcus birds and mankind.

Grandfather.
,.
Think 'it thou, that I willleav* my kmgly throne.

At apes oar grMiiJittt in their doublets drcft. Popt.

neglefled,

Cotvelt

without

Gra'ndsire. k/. [grand m^Jirt.

So mimick ancient wits at bcft,

fpeech

All the land is the queen'*, unlefs there be fome
grant of any part thereof, to be (hewed from her
Sfmfcr.
majcfty.
Not only the laws of this kingdom, but of other
provide
print*
laws,
the
Roman
that
the
places, ana
Danenani.
Ihould not be deceived in \i\s granit.

firft
Cranivorous birds, as a crane, upon the
qualities of
peck of their biHs, can dlftinguilh the
difcerns not
lurd bodies, which the fenfe of men
Brovin.
maftication.

Tim, i. 5-

Drydm.

in

In

there.

Latin.] Eating grain ; living upon grain.

Camd.

1. .'^ny anceftor, poetically.
Why (hoiild 3 man whofe blood is warm within,
Shakeff.
Sit lik«his f^ranJJire cut in alabader?
Above ihi; porul, carv'd in cedar wood,
Placed in their ranks, tlieir godlike grandfres ftood.

be often

and then is taken generally for every gift
whatfoevcr, made of any thing by any
perfon ; and he that granteth it is named
the grantor, and he to whom it is made
the grantee.

Grani'vorous.

Thy' rrandmotker Lois, and thy muther Eunice.

[jra«r</

ferences

which cannot be affigned without deed.

other

Gra'nDmothf.R II. f [grandiXiA motlitr.\
The father's or mother's mother.

Gra'ndson. a./.

made by fuch perfocs as cannot give but by deed, as the
king, and all bodies politick ; which dif-

grofs, tithes, &c. or

iVoodii'ard.

Greatncfs; grandeur; magnificence. A»
old word.
Our poets escil in grandiiy and jravity, fmooth-

The wreaths his granJJirt knew to reap
By aflive toil and milit.iry fiveat.

as rent, reverfions,

vaneand though rude, yet beautifully
found in immenfe
It is
gated mafs.

There are ftill great pillars of granite, and
Addi/on on Italy.
fragments of this ancient temple.

I>'<^of hail ; confifting of hail.
Cra'ndity. »./. [from grandis, Latin.J

Wherein my giantlj.re and iny lather fat ?

were ot

both fimple
Alaballer, marble of divers colours,
the |™^'/r
and mixed, the opulites, porphyry, and

•

,

veyed by word only;

ferviccs, advowfons in grofs, common in

extreme haidnefs and beauty, and capalile
Hill on t 'JJtU.
of a moil elegiint polifh.

,
i l^l,"
*iUI
Gra'ndino«;s. adj\ [grand; Litin.}

I.

A

ly

called oriental granite,

arrears, and hoalt tha
whereof they ace paying the
^^1/'
rich and great.
their gr.,mi/ati€n were
adj. [granditanAfaao. i^at.J

1.

Drjid.n.
want.
gift in writing of fuch a
3. [In law.]
thing as cannot aptly be paflTed or con-

Hard red granite,
publick buildings.
now
variegated with black and white,

.'

q.iickneii and brietnefs.
nefs and property, ill

Courtiers juftle for a grant.

And when they break their Iriendlhip plead their

Cornwall it is found in prodigiousmaflcs,
and brought to London, for the fleps of

were as you, 1 would n«vercome
rags hung up
Our grandchildren will fee a few
hundred millions,
Weftmiiift<;r-!>all, which coll an

Grandi'fick.
Making great.

Thou may'ft be damned for that wuked dced.iiji.
He heard and granted half hit prayer;
Pc/'t.
The reft the winds difpeis'd.
Grant, w. /. [from the verb.]
1. The aft of granting or beftowing.
2. The thing granted ; a gift ; a boon.

A

ttrata in Ireland, but not ufed

:

in bed.

—

impernot fermenting with acids, and
feaiy calcinable in a great fire. The hard
white granite with black fpots, commonfirm,
called raoor-ftone, forms a very

;

fwe«d wher^ but in

it

the

•

together
concretions, rudely compafted
fleel
of great hardncfs, giving fire with

or

G^a'TdfatheR. n f. [grand m&frtker.'\
the
The father of my father or mother
mother in the
or
father
my
above
next

I

as

is

Add/on' t Fruh.

i ''>am. xvii.
thou haft afked ofhim.
Then hath God alfo to the gentiles granted le-..^aj.xiii.
i8.
life.
pentance unto
Didft thon nx kill this king >
1 grant ye.
Do'll grant me, hedgehog? then Gei grant me loo,

grains, or fmall diftind particles.]
large
ftone compofed of feparate and very

of c»^M.ct.^^^^^i

of fentiment.

bccaufe confifting

granted his complaint

\'o befiow fomething which cannot be
claimed of right.
The Cod of Ifrael grant thee thy petition that

Ajlife.

priories.

Gra'nite. »./. [granit, Fr. from ^rc«.v»!,

the multiplied formali.ies

of attendance, by the diflauce

2.

generally a farm with a houfe at a diftance

Grandb'e. //./. [grand, French; sraitdh,
power or
Latin.] A roan of great rank,

it for

rage of a difappointcd man.

.

'

Dry.fe'j

If Ire be one indifferent at to the prefent rebellion,

They gather out of Scripture general niles tabe
followed in muking laws; and fo, in erifert, they
make
plainly grant, that we ourfclves may lawfully
Hookir.
lawa for the church.
Creek
1 take it for granted, that though the
word whiofc wc traiiftate faints, be in itfelf as appli-

To GRA'NULATE -v. v. [granuler, Fr.
ivom granum t Latin.] To be formed into

cable to things, as perfor.s j jet in this article it (igI'catfM.
nilieih not holy things, but holy ones.
Cram that the fates have hrm'd, by their decrees,

To Gra'nulatr. V. t>.

The Trojan race to reign in Italy.

Vryden't y£n.

Suffofe, which y«t 1 grmtl net, tby.defite

fmall grains.

The juice of grapes, infpiflatcd by heal, granitSfratl.

/a/ri into fugar.

1

2.

To break into fmall maiTes or granules.
To raife into fmnll afperities.
I

have obfervcd, in

many birds, the gullet, before

G R A

G R A
much diwith
lated, and thick fet, or as it inn itanuUud
proa multitude oi glandules, each whereof was
l^Vvided with its excretory veffel.
fi.y [gramilaeiott, Trench,

Granula'tion.

Tv,o grafpling lElm-ion the ocean meet.
And Englilhhrcswith Belgian flames contend Dryd.
.

To G R a P P L H

To fallen

1.

from granulate.^
into
1. 1 he aft of pouring melted metal

Gunpowder and fome falts are

2.

now in ufe.
See, his face is black, and full of blood |
His hands abraad difplay'd, as one thst^rrt/^^
And tugg'd for life.
Shakefp, Henry

to fix ; to join indifiblubly.

J

Grapple your minds to ftemage of the navy.

to lay faft hold of.
;
tor Hippagines, vclTels for the tranfporting of

horfe, we are indebted to the Salamiiiians ; for
^rj^^//;,^ hooks to Anacharfis.
lieylyn.

Shincy.

Dryxhft^

refilling the

growth of the

panuUlions oi the Hefti, in procefj of time
harden them, and i.i that manner produce a fiitula.

What f<5em'd both fpear and fliield.

Millon
This hand and fword have been acquainted well r
It would have come before into my gn^p.
To kill the ravillier.
Dryden's Don Sebafiian,
The left arm is a little defaced, though one may
fee it held fomething in \Kgrafp formerly. Addijm,

little

Sharf'i Surgery,

GRA'NULE. ». /. [from granum, Latin.]

A fmall compaft particle.
With an excellint microlcope, where the naked

hold.
As when earth's fon, Antaeus ftrove
With Jove's Alcides, and, oft foil'd, ftill rofe

of little grains.

Millon.

Dutch.]

Know mine the ftionger demon, fear'd the grapple.
And, looking round him, found this nook of fate,
To flculk behind my fword. Dryd. Don Sebaftlan.

French;

krappe,

The fruit of the vine, growing

jn cluflers ; the fruit from

which wine is

And thou (halt

not glean thy vineyard, neither
flialt thou gather erery grjpe of thy vineyard j thou
dialt leave them for the poor and ftranget.
Lev. xix. lo.

Anacreon, for thy fake
I of the graftno mention make ;

Ere my Anacreon by thee fell,
Cuifcd plant, 1 lov'd thee well.

Ccnvley.

Here are the vines io early flow'r defcrj'd.
Fofe.
Here g,">fs difcolour'd on the funny fide.
Grape Hyacinth, or Grape Flinuer. n. /.

A flower.
A fly, a grafejl'jrfe, or a hair can kill.

Prior.

Well de-

lineated.
Write with a needle, or bodkiA or knife, or the
like, when the fruit or trees are young ; for at they
grow, fo the Ictteri will grow more large and graBacon's Nuiural Hlji'jry,
fiieal.
GR*'pmtAt.Ly. adv. [from gr/jphkaf.]

In a pifturefque manner ; with good defcri^ficn or delineation.

The hyftla Worara, or civet cat, is delivered and
j-«|.i;Va//y defcribed by Caftelliis.

Brown,

Gn a'pn EL. «./ [^rfl//a, French.]

A fmall anchor belonging to a little

1.

To contcit in clofc fight.
I'B in myftandanfteir the arms of York,
Shaieff.

T9%raffU w>lb the houf< of L.aoc<ilt:r.

A

plat.]

Shakefp, Temfefl.

The part of your garden next your houle Ihould be
a parterre for Bowers, or grafs-plois bordered

They are much valued by our modern planters to

coM gr.j/p water

adorn their walks aM gr.tfs'plots.

Sidney.

of abounding in grafsT

Gr a'ssv. adj. [from grafs.]
grafs ;

Covered with

abt^jmding with grafs.

Nedid he leave the mountains bare unfeen.
Nor the rank graffy fens delights untry'd. Spenfer.

D>yd.

To feize; to catch at.

Rais'd of^i-j^iurf
Their table was, and molTy feats h.id round. Milioit,
The molV in fields, like herded beaftf, lie down.
Drydtn.
To dews obnoxious, on ihegrajfy floor.
Grate, n.f, [crates, Latin.]
partition made with bars placed near
I.

This gra/pinfof the miliita of the kingdom into
their own bands, wai defired the Summer before.
Clarendon.

For what are men who grafp at praife fubhmc.
Tfoung.
But bubbles on the rapid Itreamof lime ?

A

To Grasp, "v. n.
to endeavour to feize ;

Mortimer.

Grass-pola, n J. A fpecies of WiLtoWWORT.
Gr a'ssi nf.ss. n.f. [Uo\n grajly .] The (late

Doom, as they pleafe, my empire not to Hand,

my fccptco with my dying hand.

with
Temple,

flowers.

Denham,

;

and

Here on this grafs plot in this very place.

Milnn'i PaYadi/e hoji.

To catch

[graft

Come and fport.

Kings, by gra/ping more than they can hold,
Fitft made their fubjeit?, by oppietiion, Sold.

I .

To

;

fmall l«vel covered with fliort grafs.

Before him, fuch as in their fouls intiu'd

Souib.

[from the noun.]

More foon to be padure, to bring It to pafs. Tuffer,

In lui right hand
Gra/ping ten thoufand thunders, which he fent

z.

n.

Grass-pi.ot. n.f,

Grazier.

and bind the vind.

I'll giafp

nj.

to become pafttire.
Land arable, driven, or worn to the proof.
With oats ye may fow it, the fooner Xo grafs.

breed grafs

I .

Plagues.

Miller.

kind.

To Grass,

To GRASP, v. a. [gra/pare, Italian.]
To hold in the hand ; to gripe.

n

a.

is called parnnffia, from mourrf Pitr-where it was fuppofcd to grow ; and becaul^
the cattle feed on it, it obtained the name of gra/i,
though the plant has no refemblance to the grafi

'This plant

nalTus,

Sbakefp.
Grafshaffers eat up the green ot the whole counBacon.
tries.
Where filver laket with verdant (hadows crown'd,
chilnefs
a
grateful
all
around
Difperfe
;
The graftbofper avoids th* untainted air.
Nor in the midll of Summer ventures there. Addif.
The women were of fuch an cnonnous Mature,
that we appeared as grajthopftrt before them.
Addifon't SfeQuior.

I. To contend by fei/ing each other, as

Antseus here and ftem Alcjdifi ftrive,

A plant.

The cover ol the wings of gr^j/iAo^^^rr.

\grahbtltn, Dutch ;

/nd both the grtfif ling Itntues feem to liw. AitJiJ.

A Grass ofParnaJfus, n.f, [/ajvro^a, Latin.]

improperly.
Her waggon fpokes made of long fpinncr's legs.

one:fhic
Ihip feftens on another.

wreftlcrs.
They muft be alfo praftifed in all the lock? and
need may often be in lipht to
gripes ot wreftTing,
Mlllon.
tuif or graffte, and torlole.
Living virtue, aU aichievements palV,
ff'alkr,
Meets envy, llill to ^raffle with at lad.
Doe» be think that h< iaa i^rappte with dtvine
tCDgcance, and cadute the tvciiafting burn^n^ ?

Ye are grown fat as the heiier at gra/i, and bellow as bulls.
y^r.'x, II.
The beef being young, and only grafs fed. Was
thin, light, and moill, and not of a fubdance to endure the fait.
Temple,
You'll be no more youVformer you ;
But fora blooming nymph will paft,
Siuift,
Juft fifteen, coning Summer's grj/r.

fmall infeft that hops in the fummer
The cicada of the Latins is often
grafs.
by the poets tranllated grajshopper, but

(7 fool that lam, thatthoughl 1

One th»t

GRASS. «./. [jrsf, >axon.] The common herbage of the field on which cattle

^penfer.

A gfappl'ng ifon with which in fight

7» GRATPLE. -v. ».
krapftln, German.]

It . ». /.
[from gra/p.]
grafps, feizes, or catches at.

feed ; an herb with long narrow leaves.

Gr a'sshopper. n.J. [gra/s and hep.]

See

it

Clarendon,

G R a'sp E

With their rude handj and %nctty grappleme/li.

Gra'sier..

Milton,

They looked upon it as their own, and had

Him backward overthrew, and down him ftay'd

vcflcl.

1,

Within the direful grafp

Of favage hunger, or of favage heat.

Which with tenacious hold his loesembrac'd.
Dry den.
Gra'pplbment. ft. /. [from grapple.]
Clofefight; hoftile embrace. Not inufc.
They catching hold of him, at down he lent,

ftone or feed contained in the grape.
When cbcdient nature knows hi* will,

GRA'PhKJAL. adj. [•/?«>•.]

(hip faf-

tens to another.
But Cyinon loon his crooked grapples caft.

Gr a'pestoMe. n. /. [grape in&flone.'] The

Power of feizing.

even within their ^*-*jy5*.

In the grapple I boarded them ; on the inftant
they got clear of our Ihip fo I alone became their
Hbake/p. Hamlet.
prifoncr.

3. Iron Inftrument by which one

expreffed.

3.

Clofe fight.

2.

GRAPE. «. /. {grappe,

would not be the villain that thou think'ft
For the whole fpace that's in the tyrant's gr«/^.
And the rich Eali to boot.
Sbakefp. Macitih,
1

Or did his genius

Full

Gra'xulous. adj. [from^raaa/f.]

hold.

I. PoflTeflion ;

Frelh from his fall, and fiercer ^r^i/'^/trjoin'd,
Throttled at length in th' air, expir'daiid fell.

tvc did fee but a green powder, the aflilied eye could
difcem particular granules, fome Nuc, and fome
^"y^e on Colours,
yellow.

•

Nor wanted in Wi^grafp

Conteft hand to hand, in which the combatan ts feize each other ; the w^eiUers

1.

VK

to encroach.

Grasp. ».y; [from the verb.]
I. The gripe or fcizure of the hand.

The aft of (hooting or breaking in fmall GitA'pFLE. n./. [from the verb.]
maiTes.
Tents in wounds, by

;

Like a mifer 'midll his (lore,
'^hagrafps and grafps 'till he can hold no more.

Siakefp.

To feize

To gripe

3.

That bufinefs
Grapples you to the heart and love of us.
2.

Not

Toftruggle; to ftrive; to grapple.

2.

"U. ff.

And leave your England as dead midnight ilill. Shah,

likewife faid to be granulated, from their

refembhnce to grain Or feed.

.

that thev will jfra/^ at all, and can form no fcheire
of perfect happinefs with lefs.
Sivifr,

Now obfolcte.

cold water, fo as it inay granulate orCongeal into fmall grains : it is generally
done through a colander, or a birchen

broom.

G R A?

Soitietimes, from Bghting fquadrons ofeach fleet,

be
fore its entrance into the gizzard, ft»

to
to-

one another, or crofling each other :

fuch as in cloyftcrs or prifons.

try at.
So cndleft'and exorbitaot ar« tlie defuo of men,

I

have grated upon my good' friends forthrtereor
your ccuch-fcUow,. Nim

Brieves, for you, and
,

'

:

cho

G R A
clfc

Shakeffeare.

tnitly of baboons.

Ojt 11 » little gratt his eyes he cjft
Upon thofe bord'ring hills, and of«n plain. Danltl.

A fan has on
wftals,
gratet.

it

a

,

nunnery of lively black eyed

who are endeavouring to creep out

at

the

Addifm.

:

_

tion.

'

•

.

",',

,

he, as itew «ftik'J, thus gratefully reply'd. Milt.
Enough remains for h .ufchold charge befide.

Shaiff.trouut and Citjidj.
the particles of the patty were not nude to

To offend by any thing harlh or vexa-

In Cyprus long by men and godsobey'd,-

The Lovci's toil (he gratefully repaid,
In a pleafing manner.

They have been partial

Should now eat up her own

A

Granville.
,

Gr.\'t£fui.nes$. n,/, [from gratefu/.]
Now
1. Gratitude; duty to, benefaftors.
obfolete.
A ^aconian knigl^th'v'ng Cometimesfferved him
with man grattfulne/i than good wurage defended

Shakeffeare.

Sufpicious thoughts his penfive mind employ,
tiarie,
fullen gratitude, and clouded joy.

Defire to return benefits.
The debt immenfe of tniXih gratitude

2.

.

Mlllctt.

Gratitude is properly a virtue, difpoling the mind
to an inward fenfe and an outward acknowledgement
of a benetit received, together with a readinefs to
Souib's Serm.
return the fame, or the like.

ffatit.

the im,)ginatijn.

in the gofpcl, culled and

Dtcaj tfFietj.

Tow'rds her deferving children is enroU'd,

Study detains tlie mind by the perpetual' occurrence of fomcthing new, whidi may gratefully drike

Sfntfirr.

cholicn out thofe fofter and more gentle dictates
which would leligrj:< and dilluib tliem.

Forbid

Dryd. Virg.

2.

Thereat enraged , foon he 'gan upflarl.
Grinding his teeth, and grating hisgieat heart.

1

That our renowned Rome, whofe gratitude

And gratefully to feed his dumb defetvi.ig train.

2.

Gra'titude. it.f. [j-r<2//W», low Latin.]
Duty to benefaftors.

His wife and tender children to fud;iin.

they would, by railing up
and down, j^'o/r and fret the object metal, and fill it
Nnuiin't Opdcki.
little
holes.
full of
in the pitch,

thank thee

The taking of ufe,

repay b^efits; with due fcnfe of obliga-

To dufty nothing.

1

for thee.

wiliingpef? to- acknowledge and

With

1.

like a kind lei-

gav'll thyfcir away gratis,

and
Shakeffeare.
though he judged lawhil, jet
never approved by praflice, but lent &\\\ gratis both
felt.
to friends and drangers.
Kindred are no welcome clients, where relation
gratis.
L'
Eftrangf
gives them a title to have advice
I fcorned to take my degree at Utrecht or Leyden,
though offered it gratis by thofe univerTities. Arhuih.
low,

GRA'TEFty'LLt."'«<&,4 {from grateful.]
Sfin/cr.

faft

SkakeJ^:

They fold themfclvesj but thou,

Now golden fruits on loaded branches (hine,
And gratefat cluflers fwcU with floods of wine.'
P=/"'

Blind oblivion fwallowM cities up,
And mighty dates charaflerlcfs ate graied
If
{tick

When corn was given them gratis, you repin'd,

.

<

To rub or wear any thing by the attriThereat the jiend his gnafhiog teeth i\i grart.

'

For nothing
[Latii).]
without a recompence.
The people cry you mock them j and, of late.

.

My dear it of opinion that an old fafliioncd poit
Sfflijtir,
coofumes coals, but gives no heat.
To Grate, i/. a. \grat/er, French.]
tion of a rough body.

offcnfively.

GRJ'TIS. adv.

This place is more ^r<ir(/i</ to ftrangers, in rc(peA that it bring a Ironlicr town, and bordcriii/;
upon divers nations, many languages are underrtood
Brown's Travfls.
here.
1-

made.

1.

Gra'tincly. a<^'v. [ftom greitf.] Harihiy;

fffi/kins.

danger his health,

The range of bars within which fires are

»i

G R A

G R A
Whatlbever is ingrate at firft, is made grateful
by cudom ; but whatfoevcr is too pleafing at fird,
Bann.
gtoweth quickly to fatiate.
A man will endure the pain of hunger and thiril,
gr.-itefui
and refufc fuch meats and drinks as are mod
to his appetite, if he b« perfuaded tliat they will en-

70U had look'd through the ^raltt, like x (c-

GRATUITOUS, adj. [gratuitm, Latin;

:

Juft refentmenf and hard ufage coin'd

Th' unwilling »0id, and grating as it is.
Take it, for 'tis thy due. Dryden's Dm Scbajliat.
This habit of wr t ng and difcourfing, wherein
1 unfortunately diiFer from almoft the ^\ Hole king-

dom, and am apt to grtitc the e.tn of more than 1

-

.

'could wilh, was acquired during

Loudon.

my appieiitictfhip in

What peer hath been fubom'd io grate on you,

I

And

is to afcribe

So it is with common natures.
Treat them gently they rebel,
ISutbe rough as nutmeg-jr.'/f'V,
And the rogues obey you welK

Gratifica'tion. «./.
I. The ai^ of ple.ifing.

Cbeync's Phil. Pi in.

/).

How hardly is his will brought to change all its
delires and avcrfions, and to renounce ihoh grari^ca-

pitieacct and have hllcd their lives with dilcontent.

happincfs.

Reward recompence. A low word.
T'cGratifv. -v.et. [gmtifcor, Latin.]
1. To indulge; to grmt by compliance.
3.

becaufc the edge of it may fometimcs ^r^re. lLs,ker.

GRA'TEFUL. adj. [gratus. Latin.]
willing
-

Mi/tan.
When fome degree of health was gi\en, he exerted all his ftrcngth in a return of grateful recogniPtH.
tion to the author of it.
Years of fervice pad.
Drydtn.
From gratejul fouls exadl reward at lad.

By owing owes not, bui ftill pays.

2, Pleafing; acceptable;

cious.

delightful; deli-

;

to falute with declara-

tions of joy.

To gratify the good Andronicus,
And gratul.ite his fafe return to Rome,
The [leople will accept whom he admires.

Nor grudging give what f ubiick needs require.

To ^r.itiil.ite the gentle princes there.

2.

We in not fo nice as to oaft away a (harp knife,

To congratulate

1

Whither away fo fall ?
No farther than the Tower,

'

.

To delight; to pleafe

Dryden.
;

to humour; to

fpoth.
But pride (h)od ready to prevent the blow;
yarn s i'.tt>.
F.th
For who would die to gratify a foe ? Dryden'i
"

The captive generals to his car are ty'd ;

Prior.
Echoing his glory, giuiify\\\i prid
)
A palled appetite is humourous, and mud be ^/-jTjiler.
tifleil Vi\i\\ fiuccs rather than food.
At once thry^ia(^v''!>eirfcent and tade.
Pope.
While frequent cups prolong the rich repad.

A thouland little impcrtinencies ate very grali.
fying to curiofity, though not improving to the unAddifon.

derftanding.

graiijj you for this trouble.

Sbakejf,

Shakeff,
Since nature could behold fo dire a crime,
I graiulate at lead mr native clime.
That fuch a Imd, which fuch a monder bore,
Dryden.
So far is didant from our Thracian (bore.
2.

To declare joy for; to mention with expreflions of joy.

Yet give thy jealous fubje^ leave to doubt,

1'he joyful citizens tum'-iltuous tide

3. To requite with a gratification

with hit al-

To Gra'tulate. i;. a, [gratulor, Latin.]

You decrbctwcen-ths country aud the court,
Nor gratify whate'er the great defire.

Loeke:

body drawn over another.

Broome on the Odyffey.

He ufed every year to prefent us

manack, upon the fcore of fome little gratuity we
gave him.
Sviift.

;

To make a harlh noife, as that of a rough

;

They might have pretended fo comply wilh
UlylTes, and difmilTed him with a fmall gratuity.

which he has been long ufed to place his
Rogers^

A prefent or acknowledg-

ment; a free gift.

Souili.

Shaktffiare.
Paradoxing is of great ufe; but the faculiy maft be
fo tenderly managed as not to grate upon the truth
L'EJlrange.
and reafon of things.
I'his grated harder upon the hearts of men.
South.
I never heard him make the lead complaint, in
a cafe that would have grated forely on fome men'^

Having a due fenie of benefits

gratuitous.']

Hill.

[gra/lficatio.Lat,]

Pleafure; delight.

tions in

will and choice to thefe particles.

Gratu'ity. fi.f. [gratuite, French, from

fent gratiJicatioH of their palates.

z.

would know whence came this obliquity of di-

rcflion, which they ^rarmVs^^ tack to matter: this

it loft as filk r^tiaiasi

had looked through the

to acknowledge and to repay benefits.
A grjirfKl mini

Without claim or ment.
Without proof.

1.

2.

Crafpit like a ni.iii ofhie'ttle,

gr.itfs.

2.

Ray.

Gratu'itously. ad-v. ^{rom gratuitoKs.j

Th»y are ihcapable of any delign above the pre'-

Sbaktfp.
Of forg'd rebellion with a feal divine ?
I have grated upon my good friends for three reprieves for you, or elfe you

tuitous declination of atoms, the fame poet gives us.

French,

And it dings 5'ou fo^ youf paihs,

That you (hould feal this lawlefs bloody book

1

[gra/sir,

Tender handed touch a nettle.

;

to offend, as by oppreffion or importunity.
Wherein have you been galled by the king ?

The fecond motive they had to introduce this gra-

from
gra/e.] A kind of coarie file with which
foft bodies ard rubbed to ^owJer.

To Grate. i». w.

To rub hard fo as to injure or offend

L'EJlrange,

Afferted without proof.

,

GR-^'TEit. ». /.

rities or hard bodies.
The grating (hock of wrathful iron arms. Sbak
On a ludden open By,
With impetuous recoil and jarringfound,
•Th' infernal door;, and on their hinges g'ft'
Harfh thunder, that the loweft bottom ftook
MiJton's taradijt Loft.
Of Eiebus.

1.

the fruits of our own indudry.
2.

nefs.

_

without claim or

merit.
We midake the gratuitous blelUngt of heaven for

BIcfTings beforehand, ties a^gratefulnep,

Herbert.
Ihc found of glory ringing incur ens.
2. Quality of being acceptable ; pleafagt-

Sivift.

,

To form a found by coUiiion of afpt^-

3.

Voluntary; granted

Sidney.

'

hi'n.

gratuit, Fr.]
1.

:

'as,

I'll

Who this thy 'fcape from rumour graiulate.
No lefs than it from peril and devout.
Do beg thy care unto thy alter date.
Ben yotifort.
Gratula'tion. ft, f. [from gratulntio,
Latin.]
Salutations made by cxpreffing
joy; expreflion of joy,
;

They are the fird gratulaiions wherewith our Lord
and Saviour wasjqyfuliy received at his entrance into
the world, by fuch as in their hearts, arnj5, and
boweU embraced him.
Hooker,

The

/

G R A

G R A

The earth
Gave f^sr.io[ g,:,iu/u:iar, and caoh Iim.

T.H/.vn

Voiirenjojmcnts, according to the (hndard
oi' a
Chnftian defire, require no addition : 1
(hall

tiy Willies into^n,.'K/a//„«, and,

paniments oi

1--:^,/,

Chriftian

and

folid

My brave Egyptians all,

By the difcandying of this pclletted ftorm,

virtue, as the

Ofweighti not futjle; credible.

2.

Grave, a final fyllable in the names of

L,t gravele/t.

There are fome natural fpring
waters that will

inlapidatewood;

fo that you lliall fee
one piece of
wood, whereof the part above
the water Ihall continue wood, and the part under
the water (hall be
turned into a ^r.jw//v Hone.
Bacon's Nat Hijl
it you live in a confumptive
air. make choice of

GVftt''j (Xfrnd.

...

Wot fhowy;- not tawdry: as,

3.

pofited.

a rrave

of cloaths.
Not (harp of found ; not acute.

luit

Now it is the time of nighf,
That the grave,, all gaping wide,

4.

TI o walk
„
upon the gra-ua of our
°"." ?""">•

accent raifing the voice, in feme f;

grjt/f

prefling it lower,
'. e.^

/)«*««•.

^;«z;;..]

voice; the acute

.

their virtues,

i^ravcly in doubt whether to

Holder

Cod for their pious examples, for

^^,„

,i

Thy fum ofduty let two words contain
O! may (heyg,..t„, i„ thy heart remain,T

thereof haihgrar-w it

.»

ftones

the maker

:

colour of the objefls.

,„

Drjden't ituf,

To

[l-roni grafut.-\

4.

entomb.

r^

cr. r>

uV7xk

'^-

1.

•

hard jTubflances.
Thoii ibalt make a plate of
pure gold, and

Solemn

fertfeus ;

;

;

fober;

,

,

,

,

Mofs groweth upon

"'^'''" »' "

I

A child that gu,aed dotards.

rM

ia

your

L

not foftrn

•

bell

grivity.

Youth or. filent wings IS flown
Cravri- ycais come rolling
'
on.

To laujh, were want of goodnef.

b4d of

U."""'

'^'

Cay' 3 Pan,
r
Q~R-A v.£>Ts fupetl.
ofgra-ve. See
'

..

/•

1

Grave.-

ftone that is laid over the grave;
the monuHientai ftone.
Timon, prefcntly prepare thy grave;
Lye where the white foam of the fca may

Hand '

•

.

would kifs before I fpoke

Thy ^«.f.>« daily
Slrah/peare's Timon.
._
KAV,fDlT\. v.f. {grd'viciui,'LMxn.
Preg,nahcy; ftate of being with child. ]
Women, obftruded, have not always

made oftf 'i, is fc-

the fore-

XC

v«
•^yf"-

Mat, wh6 was here 4 little
gravel/'d,
i olt Mp K,s nofe,
and would have

mentioned fymptoms r in thofe the
f^^.moigravi.
</;/> and oblirudionj are hard' to
be

p.

cavill'd.

4"

Ihebegmnmg.

Gra'ving. n.f.

.

^11 fcwerrffcci.^^!*;,.

,

GRA'y£-srqNE.»,/. [gra-ve and Jione.] The

""'"'°«'"' imaginations make
witheTrl
ni!^^n\
nity
and im.ne„r«y? and
hoW are we gravelled by

ij,

and.ii'f grice"-'''

D

this.

The foilfome hours in diff'tentlibouf Aide, ^
Seme wotinha file, and Ibmc the ^rorw
guide.

The difeafe itfelf ^i„ gravel
hi-nJ^'^Tanoj^an there be ioy prcdiaio.i

l^i^kSe^^.

More a.aiJ m^Um
iJ(^lVs^'\^''%' '"11"'™' Characters are

Afld to.be 4,-«t,,,««cd»

With all the care wherewith I tried
upon it the
known ways of foftening graver,, \ could

""^-^-'

beat

'"f^rj*"''''"^=''"'f'. «in>ourWrcr
T,,
dogs, are modes
of beauty.

iblfted by tne.r feveral forts of

The

^

'

hath been both iravt

Thai grave
Cx"' awtulr.cf.,
'"/'I" ll'J''^-'"as

.

.

Sh.kfpCyn,i

Wert,o.ldhiveelfedefirM

Vourgood advice, which ftill

multtalteocQafion to find" the reafon of
his delTgn
he has
dVfed to caufe the effea,
hry'den's Dufrefnoy.
a.
ftyle or tool ufed in graving.

mthe natural fliadows^of (he figures, which

in5":^.:^a?T:i^:;u^t^j^s^^il;^

to embarrafs.

.

^

"."thtXnd^''^'''*/^"*"'^^^-'^-^'^'""

I'o ih' more mature

One whofe bnfinefs is to infcribe or carve
upon hard fubftances; one who
copies
piftures upon wood or metal
to be im.
prefled on papci'..'

N

com

'^J.'"^

3. To puzzle; to. flop; to put to a

from

-

alleys,

.C^Jg^Z'l.r'-''
2. Toftick in the fand.

•.,..<

,

ArbuthZt,

gra-ois. Lat.l

not gay ; not
* '

light or trifling.
.

W

j^-^
Gr-ave.*

.Sfce

If he makes^ ;i 'defigni to be
graied, he is to remciriberth^ 'A?.,g«vm' difpore not
their colours
painters
do;
and that,, by confequencche
..^'

--olgyW,: if tlilftdrieistuoblgm

gra^r
£*. xxviii. j6.

'

.

efpecially fuch",, lie
cold, and upon the Nurih,
as 1,1 divers terraffes;
and

" ^° ^"'^^ "' delineate on

r.
JORAVB,
f/j.[gra-vr. French

I

dull.

Denham.
Latin.]

[graveur, French;

grave.]

Speaalor.

To pave or coVer with gravel.

Tims,n.

Aiiihuorth.

.

Oraver., »./

roGuA'vEi.. -v. a. [from the noun.] '•

To cJean, caulk, and Ihcath a Ihip.

I.

'«f'

adj. Ip-atieokm,

GraVer. fcomp. of^nrt*..

Diydcn

the b..ft Me,
F.-.r^,
>, ^,0 come to a
fort of
pofttiono, truce wi,h,r.

_

•,.

strong fccnted'.

maimer

,

Thefc'i more gold r
Do you damn others^ and let thisilamn
you
And diuhes^r^rw you all!
Shuktff.

/

{Gra^dle French,] Sindy'
matter concreted in the kidneys.
^
.,,;
if the ftone is briitje it will
^f,.; crumWei arid

pafs

Not in

ufe.

5.

z.

'

G„RAVEOLENy,

*'

Or«^ walks are bed for fruit-trees,

ft.engih to what
aherthe works of the fcl^ols,
with-

lhey^r.,t,r,

out imitating in (bmc fort the

Shaker-

rhe upper garden at Kenlington
was at Hril no.'
thing but a gravel pit.

paper.

SbaleFb

^^' '"^""^ °*^ counfels when too full

VT ^"i
Number
makes long difputes and gravenefs

when

The ?raT»/ bottom, and that bo(tom gold.

.mcolllble to give much

lis

Importing health ini. gravenefs.

^,j'"'^'

So deep, and yet fo clear, we might
behold

Hei

TTie^r^.rjcan and ought to im.ute
the bodies
of the colours by ii.e degrees
oX the lights and (hadows

yputh no lefi becomes

The light and carelcfs livery that it wears,
Than lettled age his fables, and his weeds

interlaced

July,

Scriouf-

folemnity and fobriety of beha-

viour.

Providence permitted not the earth
to fpend itfUf
""^ '*'"'''"' '"""'' "'' «"""" <"

\],i
3. To copy paintings upon wood ormetai'
in order to be imprefled on

nefs;

*"

We fee each gram of gravel.
•

J

*

Without gaudinefs or fliow.
Gra'vekess. ,/./. [from ^,«.-.r.]

"" 8'"'
fo ««1I hjndled, ihat
glittering fand and^r<rw/,

Proofs as clear as founts in

v

o carve or form.
What profiteth the graven image, that

V?!""'
like a

'

can read,
plead \ Young

2.

)nodv.'ud

It Ihewed

Swift

Is't not enough the blockhead
fcarce

veryfmaJl

with hiver rivers.

iulK

fmiles.
Siulfi
*'', ""> ^'•'•^'•6' carried to hi^

C/at^f/confilts of fliats of'al! ihe
ufuar fixes and
colours of the leveral forts of
pebbles; fometimes
wiih a few pynt.-e, and other.mineral
bodies, cob.
fukdiy intermixed, and common fand.

Cornice with bolFy fculptures ^ruvea.
Milton
Ajtervows, oaths, ork,,guescaa
never blot out
thofe lormer gra^i„g, or
chara^ers, which byjuft
and lawful oaths were made upon
their fouls.

2.

Hut he muft wilely look, and ^^w/y

Wildom's above fufpeding wiles
Tile ijueen of learning gravely

pebble -ftones.

'

tie humble and b*

%

V^;;.*?:

time, and afks her verv
to do.
SpeOaior

little

gravely what (he would have her

;

^^\. gravn. [gra-ver, French; '/fW-l
I. lomfculp; to carve a
figure or infcription in any hard fubftance.

hones

evcHVn™"!,by^r"^
excellency,
fome zealous members.

Dutch griFvel, Armoriclc.]
I. Hard fand; fand confifting
of

GRAVE, -u. a. prefer. grai;ej; part.

Jo

marrfed in a

of the dead.
But of fuch fubtlc fubftance and
unfound.
That like a ghoft he feem'd, whofe
grave.cloatbs
were unbound.
Spenji^r.
And he that was dead came forth, bound
hund
atid loot with ».aw-fAa*i»,
,;
.,

GRAVEL. „ /. [grazier, French;

their holy live,

and the.r happy deaths.

hold them

wife. Milton
A girl longs to tell her confidant that
Ihe

to be

,

to blefs

without

Thou flrand'ft

I he drefs

r-,
Burnet,
They were wont once a year to meet
at thejr'-iw
of the martyrs ; there folemnly
to recite the.r liiiftringt and triumphs, to praife

ferioufly ; foberly ;

iightnefs or mirth.

or tone, and the grave itaod both having fome emphalis,

S.thy.
TaHood of waters would
A
overwhelm all thofe itag- Ora VECLOATHS. n.f. {grave Vdd. ckathsA

meiiu which the earth broke into,
and bury in
common ^i-axwaU the inhabitaatt of the earth. one

Solemnly ;

I

llables, to a higher,

more vigorous pronunciation.

gravelly part of it.

r/-

,

,

more acute pitch

/.f.

Milton.
dead maltcrs,

,

tne more open, high, dry, .inJ

^^'""^>y 0" CanfumptioHu
^
tiRA'vELY. adx'. [from

Accent, in the Greek names
and ufage, fe«ms
to have regarded the tone
of the

SbAktfptar,.

Thou wilt not leave me in the loathfome

French; from

gravel; confifting of gravel.

The Roman date was of all others the mod celebrattdfor their virtue, asthe^rawy?
of their own
vvriters, and of ftrangcis, do
bear them witnefs.

T he pJace
the ground in which the dead
are re-

Every one let: forth his fptight.
In the church.«ay paths to
glide.

Shake/p. Antony and Cleopatra

^»W.] Full of gravel; abounding with

Little

ufed.

from the Saxon spsep. a grove

GRAVE. «./. [gpap, Saxon.J

m

a

Wanting

a tomb; unburied.

JjRA VELLY. adj. [gra-veleux,

gratulatory- ; expreffing congratuiation.
IS

Thomfin.

grazeji and wifeft among Chriftianphilofophers.

GRA'TULATORY.ca)-. [from^r^/ato.JCon-

places.

Gr A Ve L Ess. adj. [from grave.]

lacy bavs.is much reafon to pretend to,
and as
much neceffity to afpire after, the higheH accom-

tura

congratulati;!? their

only with their ---lUintance.

tulnefs,

G R A

Foliy-paintlng humour, grave himfelf,
Calls Jaughter forth.

dillincuilhed in

Arbuthno\ on Diet.

.

[from-enro,.]

work.,

Prior

[Ip horferaanfliip.]
To hurt the foot
with gravel confined by tl)«

Carved

gkilful to Work in gold ;
ot

Ojocm

,

alfo to grave any manner
graving, and to£ndout
every device which (hall

It put to him,

-

2C6,v,ii.-i4.

V

r» GRA'V.ITATE. z:
Latin.]

[from gravli,

n.

Thou hall neither forfakcn me now 1 am become

gray headed, iiorfuffered me

Weight;

heavinefs j

tendency to

the

Dryden'! Jitvt'ia!.
Lie charms refiftlefs ?
We moll of us are grown gray headed in our dear
Addifon't SptHator.
fervicc.

'

His fcaly flocks th.it ^raxe the wat'ry deep. Dryden.
The lambs with wolves (bMgraxe the verdant mead.
F:fe.

He hath a houfe and a barn in repair, and a field

Hit gray hair'd fynods damning books unread.
I'ofr.
And Bacon trembling for his braien head.
clofe of day ;
3. Dark like the opening or
of the colour of afhes.

Our women's names are more gracious than their
Camdtn'i Ktmaim.

or two to vraxx his cjws, witli a garden and

to-

:

^'"'"Q'dJth.
,.
accordBodies do fwim or fink in different liquors,
which
liquors
ihofe
gravity
of
tenacity
or
ing to the
Brrtxin.
are to fupport them.

,

the eaftern clouds with ftreaks of light.
Cheq'fing
^
Shakt/fcare.
I'll fay yon gray is not the morning's ^
Sbak.
the pale reflex of Cynthia's brow.

y

'Tis but

Gra'zier. «. /. [from^r«w,]

^tiooktr,

Have 1 in conqueft llretcht mine arm fo far,
?

%. Serioufnefs; folemnity.
There is not a white hair on your face but (hould
Shakifp. Urnry IV.
have his eflfea ol gravity.
Our youths and wildnefs (hall no whit appear.
Shakejfeart.

GREASE. n.f.[graije, French.]

GRA'YLiNG.w.y. Ithjmalltti.l The umber,
and is ufually taken with the fame baits, and alter
the fame manner: he is of a. fine Ihape, his flefli
white, and his teeth, thofe little ones that he has,

He is not fo general a fi(h as the

ate in his throat.

fValton's Angler.
norfogopd to cat.
Gra'yness. k./. [from j-roy.] The quality

Dryden

Phyficians advife

Ilarvty on Confumftians.

3.

aiidlry confequencc
by toixing whites and blacks,
of colours,
diife fiom perfeft whites, not in fpecies
Nrwioit.
*u» only in degree of luminoufuefs.

which arc plain champaigns,

A

vra4iu, Dutch,]

Mortimer.

To move on devouring.
As every ftate lay next to the other that was opptelTed, fo the fire perpetually graad.

1

4,

them from a bullock 'sgrM/i-.

2.

[In horfemanlhip.] A fwelling and gourdinefs of the legs, which happens to a
horfe after a journey, or by ftandinglong
in the liable.

ro Grease, a;, a. [from the noun.]
To fmear or anoint with greafc.
1.
prefents.
2. To bribe ; to corrupt with
Envy not tne (lore

rem»vc into
but graxing and
Bacon.

patients to

which is commonly very rich land.

CRAY. adj. [j^nag, Saxon ; grau, Danifli;

Mi/ten.

their

not overgrown with heath.
The fcwers muft be kept fo as the water may no',
groui^d
ftay too long in the Spring; for then the
continucth the wet, whereby it will never graxt to
Bacon.
purpofe that year.
fe.i,
third fort oi graxjng ground is that near the

There may be ftrongcr broth made ot vegetables
Arbutbnot mAlimtntt,
than of any gravy foup

to expeft

Dryden.

To fupply grafs.

^ airs

I

Dryd. Jtrv.

Attend their (lately lleps, and llowly graxe along.

Meat we love half raw, with the blood trickling
down from it, delicately terming it the grat<;>, which
ichorous or raw bloody
in truth looks more like an

,

A girdle, foul with »««/>, binds hisobfcene attire.

to feed on grafs.

The more ignoble throng

z.

Thefe gray and dun coloun may be alio produced

;

.,
,
Macbeth.

To

Fool

Hbakeff. Ai you like it.
and thy lambs luck.
Craze where 'you will, you (hall not houfe with me.
Sbakeff.
Leaving in his fields h\t graxing cows.
Dryden.
He fought himfelf fome holpitabic houfe.

i"'"'.

the oily or

Sbake/f.
Int« the flame.
To take out a fpot ofgrea/e they ulc a coal upon
Bacon's Nat. Hijt.
br«wn paper.
Thou hop'ft, with facrificc of oxen (lain.
To compafs wealth, and bribe the god of gain
give thee flocks and herbs, with l.trge encreafe ;

\i(om grafs.']

n.

The grcatell of my pride is to fee my ewes graxe,

GiiA'vy. «./. The ferous juice that runs
from flelh notmuch dried by the fire.

*^

t-.

To eat grafs

1 .

of the fat;

From the murth'rer's gibbet, throw

of being gray.

To Graze,

part

unfluous part of animals.
Creafe, that's fweaten

The grayling lives in fuch rivers as the trout does,

•

Like a fad »otairift in palmer's weed,
Rafc from the tuodmoft wheels of Phcebus' wain.

The foft

1.

afifli.

For the advocates and council that plead, patience
and travily of hearing is an cllcntial part of jullicc.
hacon.
Great Cato there, for gravity renown'd. Dryden.
The emperors often jciied on their rivals or pretheir gradecc(rors, but their mints ftill maintained
Addi/on.
vity.
He will tell you with great gravity, that it is a
dai%croua thing for a man that has beea ufed to get

a mixture of xm:<.
I. White with
They left me then, when tl>e gray headed eves,

Of agriculture the defolation made in the country
bycngrolTingfrai/cJ, and the great yearly impormllances
ration of corn from England, arc lamentable
Sviijt.
under what difcouragement it lies.

Shakcfp.

trout,

jnHlcx.

Hovel.

alderHis confufion increafed when he fbnnd the
Spetialor.
man's father to be a graxier.

Youngling, thou can'ft noflove fo dear as I.
Sbakeff.
Grayieard, thy love doth freeze.

To be afraid to tell grayhcards the Iruih

Bteon

filleft

Parnel.

Ainfiutrth.
Gray. «./. A badger.
Gra'ybeard. «./. igray and heard.^ An
old man : in contempt.

punifli the injury
that had intended thereby only to
committed, according to the gravity of the fait.

-

^

the hufbandman «
barns, the^r,r*;Vr's folds, and the tradsfman's (bop.

Gentle peace, which

Came onward, mantled o'er witli dulkygijy.

2. Atrocioufnefs; weight of guik.
No man could ever have thought this reafonable,

money, ever to leave it otf.

paf.
Al! graxiers piefer their cattle from meaner
tures to better.

Down funk the fun, the clofing hour of day

tlut power which we
Ncujton's Oftickt.

But all be buried in ^\%gravily.

One wlio

feeds cattle.

And in

Gray. ti.f. A gray colour.

increafe of denfity may at great
elaftick tone
diftanccs be exceeding flow, yet if the
fufficc to
of this medium be exceeding great, it may
medium
impel bodies from the denier parts of the

towards the rarer, with
call gravity.
.

SufBcienl : after them the cackling gooie,
Clofe graxer, finds whercwilh to cafe her svanf.
Philips.

Soon as the gray ey "d morninji (Ireaks the (kies.
Gay.
flics.
tlie doubtlul day the woodcock

this

all

One that

His flock daily crops
Their verdant dinner from the moflfy turf

The gray ey'd mom fmiles on the trowning night,

That quality by which all heavy bodies tend
the nearer
wards the centre, accelerating their motion
has (hewn
they approach towards it, true philolophy
it
refolved
bv any hypothcfis, and

orchard.
Siilfi,

Gra'zer. ». /. [from grazt-.l
grazes or feeds on grafs.

Ca:cilia, that is, ^rajr eyed.

to be unfolvcable
Creator. Ol all
into the immediate will of the
of any fluid,
(wdies, confidered within the confines
abfolute, and
there is a twofold gravity, true and
gravity is the whole
vulgar or comparative abfolute
downwards) but
force by which any body tends
grarvUy in one
the relative or vulgar is the excefs of
fluid, wherehody above the {^cAt^ gravity of the
fluid
by it tends downwards more than the ambient

To fupply with grafs.

3.

mailer's

centre.

Though

Dryden.

Glamiille'i Sce^ii,
Cray headed infant? and in vain grown old!
Art thou to learn that in another's gold

Benlhy.

French.]

Their Heeds around,

Some graxe their land 'till Chriftmas, and fom;
Mortim<.
longer.
,
1 his Neptune gave him, when he gav« to k«b

When the loofe mountain trembles from on high,

1.

The trodden herb, of abjea thoughts and low. Milf.

The reftoration of gray hairs to juvenility, and
renewing the eihaufted marrow, may be effeaed.

centre.

gravite,

was at (ird as other hearts, that gra^e

1

Iralton.

Free from their harnefs, giaxe the flow'ry ground.

taiitr.,

R a'v 1 T Y . ». /. {grtmitas, Latin ;

!

To feed upon.

z.

Anon

A^v

Poft.

Sbahff).
Jacob gras.'d his uncle Laban's Iheep.
happy man, faith he, that, lo! J fee
Graung liiJ caitle in tliofe/pleif nt field:.''
'^
Duniel'i
"' Civil If or.
11 he but know his good

Gray headed men and grave, with warriours mix'd,
M/rw:V Paradifi Uft.
Aflimble.

aaiou o( gravithe terreftrial bodies is the general
whereby all known bodies, in the vicinity ot

Shall gJ-JT'/Za/'O" ceafe, if you go by?

to forfake thee _in the

late days of temptation.

©f tending to the centre.
to
The moft confiderable phenomenon belonging

the earth, do tend aad ptefs towards its

feed on grafs.

grifly,

Gravita'tiom.*./- {('comgravitatf.\ A«
i

To tend grazing cattle; to fct cattle to

1.

Living creatures generally do change their hair]
men,
with age, turning to be gray; as is feen in
that
though fome earlier and fome later; lo horlcs,
f^uirrels that turn
are dappled and turn white ; in old
Bacon's Natural Hilary.
and many others.

.

joi:«ly with that body.

...

White or hoary with old age.

2.

To tend to the centre of at-

traflion,
^ ,
Thofe who h*ve natore's fteps with care purlu d,
enduM,
force
aflhe
wilh
matter
it
Thit
That al! its parn magnetick pow'r exert,
Bhckmvrc.
And to each other gyavhalt affert.
That lubtle jnaltcr mull be of the fame fubftancc
comprewith all other matter, and as much as is
gravitate
hended within a pirticulM body rouft

G

G R E

G R A

G R A

Bacon.

Of the g'r.is'd advocate, that grinds the poor. Dryd.
Gre'asiness »/. {fiom grfo/i:'] Oilinefs;
fatneft.
cut,
Upon the moft of thefe ftones, after thev are
a kind of gre.ifin<-fj
there appears always, as it were,
^"y"or iinau.fity.

Gre'asy.

[from^rM^.]

E«r. tho lewd rabble

[From m/fr, French.] To touch lightly.

pi»y:

Covern'd their roaring throats, and |rumlled
rogues; they pleafed
I could have hugg'd iht gieafy
''/«"'>
me.
,
and
Buv(hecp, and fee that they be big-boned,
Mert.
have i fofi, grea^, well curled clofe wool.

Mark then a bounding valour in our Englilh,
That being dead, like to the \i\i\\e.U graxjng.
Breaks out intq a fecond courfe of roifchi»f,
Henry Y.
Killing irvrdapfeof mailaJily. Si»k'Jf.

T» Graae. V, «.

at/j.

Oily; fat; unftuous.
The fragments, fcraps, the bits and jrwA reliques
Sbakrff.
Of hfr o'ereaten faith.
2. Smeared with greafe.

1.

3.

N

Fat of body; bulky:

m reproach.

G R E

G R E

L«t'i eonrult together againft ihls grfa^ Vn'ight.

Son return 'd
Viftorious with his faints.

Sbakefpeare.

GREAT, adj. [jpear, Saxon; gnot, Dutch.]

1\it. great

Thy pow'r

tongue
Relate thee greater navi in thy return.

There were they \ngreat fear.
Pf. xiv. 5.
Their pow'r was^M/.
Miiion.
Great (riiunph and rejoicing was in hcav'o. Milt.
Cliarms fuch as thine, inimitably great

He only could eiprefs.
Broome.
Having number or bulk, relative or comparative.

The idea of f» much it pofitive and

clear :

the

alfo clear, but it is but a compa-

rative idea.

Lxke,

J. Confiderable in extent or duration.

Thou halt fpolcen of thyfervant'shoufe for a great

12.

Sbakeffeart' t Henry VUl.

What IS low raife and fupport.

Milton.

After Clence then

And lummons read, the great confult began. Milt.
And though this be a great truth, if it be impartia.iy confidercd, yet it is alfo a
great paradox .to men

of corrupt minds and villous

practices.

Tillot/on.

Chief; principal.
commands

you

Venerable; adorable; awtul.
Thou tirft art wont Goi'igreat authentick will,
h.av'n to bung.

Milt.

». TVonderfuI; manxllous,
rw-'t'

'^'"*'' '"'' '^"" "f ^ooder.

MUlon.

Ut high rank; of large power.
Such men as he be never at heart's eafe,
Whilftthey behold a j^«»,r '•>»"
themfeWes. Sbak.
Worthieft by being good,
far more than great or high,
Milton.
all the great, ho* few
Arejuft to heav'n, and to their promife
true ! Pape.
Misfortune made the ihrjneher fcit,
And noiie could be unhappy but the great.
Rnvr

g,

W

„,

Dclfife Ihc farce of rtate.

^

The fober follies of the wife

and great.
..T^r ?".'"'.'"""''"''""'' ""high,

,

.

Thtfc,

all

Pot,.

m

yj hofe dead

I

;

vaulted archts lie
the poor remains of ftate,

j6. General; extcnfive in

innuence.

confequence or

JI
.

The great Creator thus reply'd,

Vol. I.

man immediately, will talk more

Gre'atness, »./. [from^r^^.]
2.

Comparative quantity.

We can have no politive idea of any fpace or

of a

j,
Jiacon.

WiUi fwelling vanity, bring forth deceit.

3.

nefs
Js ol the reward and the certainty.

away. May.

added in every ftep of afcending
or defcending confanguinity
:
as great
grandfon is the fon of my grandfon.

the gro(reft

So many

expremon.

hh

nojreat matter to
na uied and meek «rfon,.

live lovingly

with eooj

By«r«/ will deceive thee with ling'ring

*^

My

lord wo.uld have you
pride or greatnef, that he

-r-jf'r-hlujhlndry.

"lor

Raleigh', May,.

Miii,n

Carpenters bu.U an hoiife by the^,*,,
and
agreed for iha ivm. of money.

of mTnd!

l.reain.f ot mind and noblenefs
their feat
Build in her loveliell.
m-i.
Jnition.
/.

\il''"'r^•
c
bthoveful, for
the ftrength of the navJ
.u
that no (hip, (hould be
builded byShe great

^.„,,„

know, that it is not of
cometh not aboard your

6. Merit; magnanimity ; noblenefs

out,

1^'
ff
...
He did
at length
fo many llain forget,
And loft the tale, and took them
by

Dryden

1 hemirtocles raifcd the Athenians to their
/rwrneft^t fe,i, which he thought to be
.he true and conItant intereft of that
comraanwealth.
S-wifi '
5. fwelling pride ; afFefted itate.

•

it

chirms

01 pow'r and future (tatc J

The

a lump.

Ut this by experience lead Ihec the way

Sbakeft

He (hook her from his arms.

Tayill DeioZi.

Gjiiat. n./. [from the adjertive.]
whole ; the grofs the whole in

conceit

1 'otgyouT greatne/s not to give the
law
In other realms but beaten,
to withdraw. Dryden
;
Appro iching greatnef, met him with
her

'"'"*'" °' '"'«'"' 8""J"^

eafily in

my greatne/,. Sbak.

As will to greatnef, dedicate them'elves.

and

A ptolerbKi

their ordinary

I-arcwell, a long farewell to all

CumdenS Remain,.

difficult : grievous.

for

to grealnej,, and

then have thev
not wit to difcern the nght degrees of
duty.
SidneL

third geneia-

;

capacity ;

draweth a yielding

tionj fo that 'tis common enough
to f« a country-

Hai^

'

The moft fervile flattery is lodged mod

f'f''-)''\''^'r""-S"'"-Sreai granifires tongue
came out of Pcrfia.
C J
(.^Ya"' "" *'""-.f"" g'-'i'lfather theyTalkd

"the"

Rogers

empire.

dare not yet affirm for the
antiquity of our lan-

fon,

to the^rwr,

4. High place; dignity; power; influenced

It IS

Their holiday-doaths go from
lather to
worn out till the fccond or

High degree of any quality.

Zeal in duties, (hould be proportioned

SanJi,,.

mod he flings in heat ofday.

are feldom

Locke

All ablent good does not, according
to the ereai'.
nef, it has, or is acknowledged to
have, caule pain
equal to l\-,it.greatn,f,, as all
pain caufes defireejuaj
to i.ftif i hecaufe the abfence
of good is net always,
pam, as the prcfence of pain is.
Lo^lie

His eyes fomctimes even great with
tears. Sidney
Their bellies great

20.

of thefe

lort ot quantities.

.

forthafader.

duwhich IS not made up of and
conimenfurate
numbers of feet or yards, or days
or
and whereby we judge of the ^rw/,,, A

A low

Pregnant; teeming.

1

.

Largenefs of quantity or number.

to repeated

ill

,

Addilon.

?

1.

ration,

fpeak

From cattle grM, with young keep thou

'

the foe,

And to their general fend a brave defiance

Knolles.

honour.

n

clime,

(lidlt expire.

Dryden
generouHy; bravely.

;

boldly of thofe
that are great with them, and
thereby wound their

,

is

^^

years,

Thofe that would not cenfure, or

n
18.

illuftnoufly.
;
Yet London, emprefs of the northern

1 hai greatly turn their backs upon

^

conceive.
Milton.
uft/iouj ; eminent ; noble
; excellent.

^OL«d, thou art ,..r,..,.hy name

acquainted.

word.

^fL"

humour foftning all her globe.

Fermented the great mother to
1 1

much

Milton.

Nobly

'''°" S'"'^'
\T
3. Magnanimoufly

Miltot.

;

Parnel

2.

proud,

ToletoutthyharveitbygrM,orbyday,

Adoiii the rich, or praife the
great.

I'rolilick

familiar;

19.

To render up the ;r„r fcal prefently. Sb. Hen. VUI.
Interpreter, through higheft

;

In a great degree.
J"';>''^'"^,J«;i'U'-'-;?'&'n"''iply.

Where are thefe bold intrepid Ions of war,

.

1 his fly, for

Hear the king'spleafure, cardinal, who

1 .

,

not to be won
with words, nor the defendants
to be dilcouraged
*'"' ''"'"' «l'"=f''re he began lobatrtrthe

Milton.
Millon.

,

Solyman perceived that Vienna was

17.

By experience of this great event.
In arminot worfe.

7.

bwelling

nor feared his hatred
Clarendon

^
Gr e'atly. adv. [from great.]

how fair,

Anfwenng his great Idea.

„

On lome great charge employ'd

;

fublime.

This new created werld, how good,

Ken

The earl, ss greattearted as he, declared that he
neither cared for his friendlhip,

Sidney.

Zl'lU

He feem'd, or tis'd in cogitation deep.

fe.

J. Intelleftually great ;

a mi.

him.

Millon.
^'u
";t'."
Hedifdained
not to appear at ^m/ tables,
and
'
feftival entertainments.
Atterbury.
I

A

OREATHEA'nTED.aa)- [great and heart.]
High fpinted undejefted.

*' "''^'' «'''""•

10.

That to the height of this ^rw/ argument
I may affert eternal Providence,
And vindicate the ways of God to man.

favourite's bufinefs is to pleafe his
king,
niftcr s togreaten and exalt

Pope.

14. Opulent; fumptuous; magnificent.
Not Babylon,
^at great Alcairo, fuch magnificence

Make fure

Many

humblenefs.

To

[itoxn grettt.]

A

Fre,f.

Such Dido was; with fuch becoming
ftate,
Amidft the crowd, Ihe walks fercncly^rc^jr.
Dryden
13. Magnanimous; generous ; high
minded!
In her every thing was goodly and
(lately j yet fo.
that It might feem that gr«r
mindednefs was but
tlie ancient-bearer to the

a.

^^^^ ^°^^'^^ '" S"""" themfelves in Italy
r^l''"
itlelf, uling rtrangers for the
comm.inders of their
armies, the Turks by degrees beat
them out of all
their goodly countries.
Raleigh.

of elevated mien.

;

cu.

word little ufed,

'

Grand of afpeft

Shai.

aggrandize ; to enlarge ; to magnify.

grwr matter, and hit own. Pope

Scipio

Great in his triumphs, in retirement

+, Important ; weighty.

Hare broke their backs with laying manors on them,

rcCxREA'TEK.

Miltim.

The ^r^'a^ luminary.

Cffifar, the world's

fliould (hake theprefs.

\ ^"•"^'ll'"!

woman, walking through the city
in the day.time, had her
child ftruck out of her
womb, and carried half a furlong from her. fyHkim.

thee that day

Aloof the vulgar conftellations thick.
That from his lordly eye keep diftance
due,
Difpenfes light from far.
Millon
Here Csfar grac'd with both
Minervas fhone,

j Sa. vii. 19.

Her favours to thee, and the ^reac oath take.
With which the bleflcd gods airurance make.
Chapman.

:

Is greater than created to dcftroy.

Hewn on Norwegian hils, to be the maft
Of fome^«/ admiral.
Mihtm.
i. Having any quality in a high degree.

i-orthis ^ira/ journey.

In the old time of war,

Thy thunders magnified, but to create

Millon.
Milton.
Milton.

while to come.

GrealBetlied women.
That had not half a week to go, like rams

what thought can meafure thee, or

!

Than from the giant angels

As one great furnace flam'd.
The talleft pine

is

Pregnant; teeming.

Mii,„„

_^reat are thy works Jehovah, infinite

A dungeon horrible, on all fides round,

idea of greater

Addif,;^.

Oreatbellied. adj. Igreat z^^ beliUd.^

work-mafter tends to no excefs

That reaches blame.

!

And God created the great whales.

5.

Milton.

Fair angel, thy defire that tends to
know

Dtut. iii. ;.

,

one day^in a week for lovers, and interpret by the great for any
gentlewoman who i«
turned of fixty.
I fet afide

The works of God, thereby to glorify

I. La.r*e in bulk or number.
Judas one of the twelve came, and with him a
frni/ multitude with fwrrdjand ftaves.
Mat. Mvi.
All thefe cities were ttuced with high waili, gates
aod bars, bclides unwalied towns a great many.

Elemental air difFus'd
In circuit to the uttermoft convex
Of this great round.

G R E

"Vtit great

^

ihej^,™,. Dryd
ari

Moxon's MkI, Exer

,

Gi
G,™/^0

randeur; ftate; magnificence.
with Timon dwells in fuch
a draught.

As brings all Brobdignag before your

thought

Greave. „./, [jpa-p, Saxon,]
iipenfer.

Pofie

A "grove'

Yet when there haps a
honey-fall.
We'll lick the firupt leaves,
*

And tell the; bees that theirs is ga'l
To that upon the g,reavt,.
5 ^

M, Drayton.
Glt«AVBS.

tJRKAVES,

Armour

Till the^rrM ficknefs and love's force betray'd

It wants the fingular number.
He had grcavei of brafsupon his legs. I. Sa. xvii.
A Ihield make for liim, and a helm, fair greavfs,

To death's rcmorfclcfs arms th' unhappy maid.
Cartb.

anilcurctsfucli

k. /.

An

idiom of the Greek language.
;

To her makes prefent of his fervice feen,
Which (he accepts wi(h thanks and goodly gree.
Sfenfer.

A

or grice.^

Ev'ry greece of fortune
Shakcffra<e.
Is fmolher'd by that below.
After the proceflion, the king himfelf remainnig
fc.-.ted

upon the
Bacon.

in the quire, the lord archbiftiop

grace of the quire, made a long oration

Gre'edily. «i/f. \from gree/fj.] Eagerly;
ravenoufly ; voracioufly ; with keen appetite or defire.
Milton.

Greedily (he cngorg'd without reftraint.
He fwallow'd it as greedily

Denhjm.

Al parched earth drinks rain.

Ev'n deadly plants, and herbs of pois'nous juice
Wild hunger feeks ; and to prolong our breath.
Drydtn,
We greedily devour our certain death.

Ka-

Gre'ediness. ». /. [from _gT<'ft/v.]
of appetite or defire.

Fox in rteallh, wolf in greedineft. Sbak. K. Lear.
Thither with all greedine/s of afFeftion are they
Sbakeffi.
gone, and there they intend to fup."
If thou wert the woll thy grwt/ia^ would aflftitt
Shakeffeare's Timon.
jhee.
1 with the fame greedine/s did feek,
As wat..r when I thirtt, to (wallow Greek. Denbam.

fsrsaij. Sax. graadig,

Dan. gretig, Dutch.]
1, Ravenous; voracious; hungry.
Asa lion that is^rcfi/)/ of his prey, i^: xvii. I2.
Be not unfaliablc

in any dainty thing, nor

too

EccUJ. «xxvii. 29.
He made \!m greedy ravens to be IClias s caiciers,

jrwi/yupon meats.

Eager J vehemently defirous.

It is

Stern look'd the ticnd, as fruttrate uf his will.

Dtyden.

\Vtiile the reaper fills his g'«a')' hands,

Ai:d binds the golden (heaves in brittle bands. Dryd.
How tcaiful would he be of all greedy and unjult

GREEN,

adj.

gr.en,

Dutch.]
1.

Ha\ing a colour formed commonly by
compounding blue and yellow ; of the
colour of the leaves of trees or herbs.
The green colour is faid to be moll favouraolc to the fight.

The general colour of planit is green, wli'.ch is
there is a grceniOi
a colour that no flower is of
B.tcon.
piimrofc, buj it IS pale and fcarcc a ^ff//.
Pope.
Grove* for r»er^i««.
:

2. Pale;

fickly :

from whence we

Dryden.

frelh : as a green wound.

The fragrant ^reeirilfetk, my brows to VxviA.uryd,
To
-To Grekn. "v. a. [from the noun.]
make green. A low word.

Sbakefp.

Great Spring before
Gfettt'd all the year ; and fruits and blofToms blu(h'd
Infocial fweetnris on the felf-fame bough. ThompJ,

Gre'enbroom. »./. [cylifogeniJiia,'Ln\n.\

Sbakeff.

A (hrub.

In a vault.
Where bloody Tybalt, yet but jfiw^r in earth,
Licsfefleringinhis (hroud. Sbak. Romeo and Juliet
A man that (\udicih revenge keepeth his own
wounds green, which olherwife would heal and do
Bacon'i Effayt.
well.
the
I might dilate on the temper of the people,
power, arts, and interell of the contrary party, but
thofe are invidious lopicks, too green in our rememDryden.
brance.

MilUr.

Gre'encloth. ». /.

A board or courf of

juftice held in the counting-houfe of the

king's houfliold, for the taking cognizance of all matters of government and
juftice i^ithin theking'scourt-royal; and
for corrcfting all the fcrvants that (hall

Dia.

offend.

For the greenclolb law, take it in the largeft fenf«>
Bacon's advice to Viillicrs,
I have no opinion of it.

Not dry.

5.

Ifafpark of error have thus far prevailed falling
even where the wood was green, and farlhel) olf from
any inclination unto furious attempts; muft not the
peril thereof be greater in men, whofe minds are of
themfclves as dry at fcwel, apt beforehand unto tuHooker's Dedication.
mults ?

Gre'enbyed. <7i^'. S^reemnA eye.'\ Having
eyes coloured with greert.
Doubtful thoughts, and ra(h-embrac*d defpair,
Andfhudd'ringfear, and grff*yifi/jealouff. Sbak.

Gre'enfinch. n.J.

Being an olive tree

A' kind of

[Moris.}

bird.

Which late he fell'd and being grcfnf muft be
Cbapman,
Made lighter for his manage.
Of fragility the caufe is an impotency to be ex-

The chaffinch, greenfinch, dormoufe, and other

Gre'enfish. »./. [a/f///(j, Latin.]

Gre'ekgage. n.f. A fpecies ofplum.
GREE'NHotJSE. n.f.

call

Like it is Happha's 5;Aifor«f,i»«a4.
rojil.
Was the hope drunk
Wherein you dteft youifell ? Hath it flept fince ?
And wakes it now 10 look (ogieen and pale
iiakr/peare'i Macbeth.
At what it did fo freely ?
Theis'i never any of thcfe demure boys come 10

Mortimer's Hujh.

may know by the freezing of a moifteiied cloth fet

If the feafon prove exceeding piercing,

;

fignify different ideas,

by a fort of an unaccountable

Unnpe; immature; young becaufe fruits
:

are green before they arc ripe,

When 1 was ?r«»in ludgment, coldin blood !.^Oi»«.
Dryden.

You'll find a dii^rence
Between the promife of his greener days.
Sbake/f. Henry V.
And thefc he mailers now.
If you would fat green geefc, (hut them up when
they are about a month old. Moi timer's HiiJhanJry.
Stubble gcefe at Michaelmas 'are feen

Upon the fpit, next May produces green.

Green. «./.
The green colour
I .

;

led us

into

feveral

Gr e'e N isH.

<7«>'.
[from
^r«ff.]
j Somewhut
a
l
,.-'
gteen ; tending to green.

I

O charming youth! in the firft op'ning page
So many graces in io green an age.

E-irlyn.

hollow
apartments among the rocks and mountains, that
look like fo many natural greenbpufes, as being always (haded with a great variety of trees and (hrubs
Addijon.
that never lofe their verdure.
A kitchen garden is a more pleafant fight than the
SfecKior.
greenboufe.
fined orangery or artificial

Sometimes our road

IVatls's Logick.

roalkd.

which'you

in ycfliT greenboufe, kindle fome charcoal.

far-fetched analogy, or dillant rcfemblancc, that
fancy has introduced between one thing and another;
as when we fay the meat is green, when it is half

f^'ng.

With goodly greenijh locks, all loofe, unty'd.
Spenfer.
As each had been a bride.
Ol this order the green of all vegetables feeras to
be, partly by reafon of the Intenfenefs of their celours, _and partly becaufe, when they wither, fome of
tieiutin,
them turn to a greenijh yellow.

Gre'knly. ad-v. [from grei)i,'\
With a greenifh colour.
1
.

green colour of dif-

ferent fhades.
Her mother hath mended.
That, (juaint in green, (he Ihall be loofc enrob'd.

2.

Newly; frefhly.

3-

Immaturely.

4-

Wanly

i

Sbake/p.

But with your nrefence chee'ri,they ceafe to mourr,.

And walks wear utiher green at your return. Dryden.
Cinnabar, illuminated by this beam, appears of
the fame red colour as in day light ; and if at the
lens you intercept the green making and blue making
rays>. Its rcdnefs will become more full and lively.

2.

A

half raw.
Under this head we may rank thofe words which

Not roafted

the

[green and i5ip •//<•.]

houfe in wliich tender plants are Sicltered
from the weather.

heated, give lire to the ^i-««.

maid's difeafe the ^ir^w ficknefs, or chlo-

A kind

Ainfinorth.

offifll.

The green do often heat the ripe, and the ripe, fo
6.

Mortimer.

fmall birds, are injurious to fome fruits.

tended, and therefore (lone is more fragil than metal,
Bacon.
and fo dry wood is more fragil than green.
If you but confider a piece of green wood burning
in a chimney, you will readily difcern, in the difBoyle.
banded parts of it, the four elements.

Law.

German;

\g>un,

Ev'ry brow with cheerlul green is crown'd ;

The (ialls arc doubled, and the bowls go round.

My fallad days.
Myfalladdays,,

Creedy to know, as is the mind of man.
Their caufc o(deat'i,fw:ft to the lire (he ran. Fairfax.
The ways of eveiy one (hat is*gr^f(/>'of gain. I'lov.

ways of railing ilK:r lortune ?

With greens and flow'rs recruit their empty hi*$.

Griefs are grfpn;
And all thy friends.which thou mu(t make thy friciuis.
Have but their (lings and teeth newly ta'en out

now

commonly taken in an ill fenfe.

Not half fuflk'd and grerdy yet to kill.

;

Drydus.

Leaves; branches; wreaths.
And feek frc(h foiagc to fuftaiu their lives. Dryden.

:

King Chxrtes.

and bring him food.
2.

3.

Milttrs

;

venoufncfs; voracity; htmger; eagernefs

GRE'EDY. adj.

from

i

The door is open, fir ; there lies your way
You may be jogging while yout boots ate green.

It

Greece. »./. [corrupted from degrtes.
likewife grtne
Obfolete.
flight of fteps.

New

(..

And falling her before on lowly knee.

is written

undecayed

i

Dry den.

Gree. n. f. [^r/, French; probably from
graHa. ] Good will favour good grace.
;

frefti

trees in fpring.
If I have any~wherc faid a green old age, 1 have
Virgil's authority; Sed cruda deovirifjue feneltus.

Cbjpman^i liiadx.
\jr<rcifmat, Latin.]

Flourilhing ;

,

As may rcnoivn thy workmanfliip, and honour him
as much.

O'er the fmooth enamell'd grten.
Where no piint of ftep hath been,
I'oUow me as I fing.
The young yEniilia, fairer to be feen
Than the fair lilly on the flow'ry green.

any pro*f, ftey fall into a kind of male grttn fickSiaitfp. Hemjr IV.
ntf,.

n. f, [from grtvis. French.]
for the legs ; a fort of boots.

Grecism.

G R E

G RE

G R E

;

timidly.

Not in ufe.

Kate I cannot look greenly, nor gafp out my eloquence; nor have I cunning in protettation. Sbakefp.

Gre'enness.
I.

The

n.f. [from ^r«».]
quality of being green ; viridity;

viridnefs.

About it grew foch fort of trees, as either excellency of fruit, ftatelinefs of growth, continual ^rrennefs, or poetical fancies have made at any time fa-

Nrufton's Opticks,
Let us but confider the two colours of yellow and
blue, if they are mingled together in anv confiderable

In a meadow, though the.meer grafsand;rf««K/>
delights, yet the variety of fioweis doth heighten and

proportion, they make ^ green.

bcauiiiy.

fratts's J..ogick.

A graffy plain.

mous.

Sidney.

Ben jfan/on.

My reafon, which dlfcourfes -on what it tinds in

Vor this down-trcdden equity, we tread
In warlike march thefe greeiis before your town.
Sbake/peare.

my phantafy, can Qoniiitr greennefs by itfelf, or mellownefs, or fwtetucis, or coldnefa, lingly and alone

by itfelt,

Digby on bodies.
2, Immaturity;

G R E

G R I

t. Immaturity; unripenefs.
This prince, while yet the errors in

fiii

nature

To Greet.

Gre'eter. n.f. [from the verb.]

Newnefs.

Gree'nsiceness. n.f. \gr!ett^x\&.Jtchiefs.'\
The difcafe of maids, fo called from the

fubftances, are the cafe

of girls in the grcenficknefs.

Arbuihyiai.

1

I

fcog.

Gre'enweed,

h. J.

[greeu and

the

Vrydet.

A tall foot-foldier, of whom

Such bold hoftility ?

2.

Yet to esprefs a Scot, to play that prize.
Not all thofe mouth ^<-M</5t can fuffice. Cleaveland
You may as weU try to (juench a flaming ^r^M</o

My noble partner

with a (hell of fair water as hope to fucceed.

Gre u T. n.f. A kind of foffile body.

Shaitff. Macbeth.

Now, Thomas Mowbray, do I turn to thee.
And mark my gutting wtU j for what 1 fpeak.
My body (hall make good.
Siair/fi. Rkbard 1 1.
3. To falute in kindnefs or refpeft.
My Lord, the Mayor of London comes to greet you.

Grey.

Left his ground ncft, high tow'ring to delcry
Miltilt.

Theking'sa-bed,

And rent great largefs to your officers

;
T hi» diamond he ^rrett your wile withal
By the name of moft kind ho(»ef,. Siai,/.

MaeietA

whofe life

I fpar'd at

Dryden

/ [xjii^Jjunb. Saxon.]

A tall fleet dog that chafes in fight.
Firrt may a ttuttj greyhound

•'«"•

,

transform himfelf into
Sidney.

^

u !i°"
AA haften'd
hare from greedy greyheunds go.
Sidney

Th' impatient greyhound, ilipt from far.

Bounds o'er the glebe to catch the fearful

Orice. n.f.

hare. Dr-id.

A tie pig. Goitldman.
2. A ftep OT greeze.
1

.

1 i t

Shakefp. Ttuelfth Night.

la Oride. 'V. n. [gridare, Italian.
J Tocut;
to make way by cutting. A
wprd elegant,
but not in uft.

aofrrlri), the

Ltkeiii.3}.

p.^i

It repented the Lord that
he had made man on
the earth, a^d 't grirzed him at his
heart. Gen. vi.
Cnev'd at the thonght, he vow'd his whole en-

2.

Rour.

To make forrowful.

When one man kills another, thinking that lie
wild bcaft; if the fcme nun remembreth
afterwards what he hath done, and
is not grieved
(ot the ha, in this cafe he hath
(inned ; becaufc
his not grieving is otTenfive unto
Cod, though the
fadt were merely befidfcs his will.
Perkins.

Ti Grieve. ^.
fomething

oowns we ,
fee, near Wilton fair,

No, not a ^; ice,
This a ftep to love.

To meet, as thofe do who go to pay conNot much in ufe.

«.

afflift willingly,

Forty yean long was I grieied with
this genera"
tion.

killcth a

When venerable age commends ihc fa«.

Greyhound.

To congratulate.
To pay compliments at a diftance.

Sir,

\^Mgrey beard.
Shakefp. Kirir Lear
Our green youth copies what grey hnners act.

But in dumb furli.iefs, each arm'd with
care.
His foe proleH, as brotjier ol the war.
Dryden.

Sfen/er

Dryden.

More properly

full of

Unce had the early matrons run

His lady, feeing jll that channel from
far,
Apptoachl in hafte to greet his viflorie.

For he d«h not
children of men.

IVatts

SeeGRAV.

ruffian.

To afflift; to hurt.

deavour
Should be to dofe thofe breaches.

grnu.

adj. [gris, French.

Tins ancient

,

With bending fails, each velftl of our fleet. IValUr
Thus pale ihcy meet, iheir eyes with fury burn
None^c«/j; for i;one tht greeting will return;

Flemilh ; gratis, Latin.]
I.

Gretu', Mufeeum.

writtcn^ray.]

The looro's appro«h, and greet her with his fong.
ToFr«/ herof alovely fon.
Milton.
Ilie fca's Our own: and now all n»\ar\% greet.

;

The preterite of _f /-toy.

The pleafing talk he fails not to renew
j
Soft and more foft at ev'ry touch it

Shakejp.

.

Swift.

ToGRlEVE. t'. a. [^re^er, French ^r/Wfr*

eolour immcrfcd

therein.

to juftic©

and integrity i

gerics of cryftals, or fparks ol Ipar,
of the bigncfs of
bayfalt, and of a brown (hining

—Cod blefs your grace with health and happy days.
Now the herald lark

encouragt
who, from the hope of future reward,
ami
dread of future punilhment, will be moved

A fort of tin ore, with its g>eul.; that is, a con-

Urew.

Out of ufe.
Ufed of fuch.
caufes as are theeffefts of human condudt.

The caufe of uneafinefs.
What

Gay's PjBorals

Grena'do. »./. See Grenade.

Voupett with prefent grace, and great prtdiflion;

n.f. [from grief.]

A ftate of uneafinefs.

thofe

Peace allays the (hepherd's fear
Of wean ng cap of grenadier.

lo addrefs in whatever manner.

Obfolete.

remedy can be found againft grievances,
but to bring religion into countenance, and

fuch men being employed to throw
grenades.

think if men, which in thefe places live,
Diirft look in thenifclves, and themfelvcs retiieve,
They would like flrangersgrw themTclves. Donne.
I would gladiv go,
To greet my Pallas with luth naws below. Dryden.

Henry iV.

S/jaiefp.

Pam; difeafe.

Grievance,

there is one company in every regiment

I

ShaieA.

You cor.jure from the breaft of civil peace

1.

To addrefs at a meeting.

gratulations.

The king hath fent to know
The nature of your grirf,, md whereupon

mage of all that ftaud near.
Httrris.
Gre'nadier. n f. [grenadier, French, from

Saxon.

,

And I will fet this foot of min: as far

3.

grenadt.]

Mdifon.

,

As who g'les farthcft.

foon as it is kindled, the cafe
flies into m.iny fliatters, much
to the da-

To GREET, v. a. [grtuor, Latin; jficcan,

.

Grievance; harm. [Grief, French.] Not
in ufe.
Be fadlious for redrefs of all thtfe griefs,,^

hole; as

It happen'd on a Summer's holiday,
That to the grremuaoJ (hade he took his way;

J

"
2.

of iron, or other metal, about two inches
and a half in diameter, which, being filled
with fine powder, is fet on fire by means
of a fmall fufee faftcncd to the touch-

A

Fair/ax.

.

South.
L
r
mother
was fo affliaed at the lofi of a fine
1
boy, who was her only fon, that Ihe died
hr gtief of

PerDiji,

much

""•ll"
he

A little hollow globe 01 ball

I^tin.]

Spring or Summer. It is fometimes ufed
as one word.
Among H ild herbs under the greratitoJ (hade.

To me )-ou fpeak not.

fo

the greatncfs of the mifery as the fmallnefe
of the

GRENA'DE. n.f. [from />omum greinatHm,

njuee^.]

For Cymon Ihtinn'd the church.

Latin.]

taining to the lap.

Dyers weed.

Gre'enwood. ti./. [jretH and tvooJ.]
wood confidered as it appears in

(lout. .?*«>
Wringing of the hands, knocking the
breaft, arc"
but the ceremonies of forrow, the pomp
and ortentation ot an efleminate grief which fpeak
not

No birdsofprey iitgregarlnus. Rjy,n the Creation.

Sivift.

my forrows to be proud;

For^i;V/is proud, and makes his owner

jT)/^,

Gremial. W/. \gremium,

WeMh,

griff,

Sorrow ; trouble for fomething paft.

.

prtridges.

DryJtH.
In (hallow foils all is gravel within a few inches
«nd fometimes in low ground a thin gretmjtuard,
and doughy underneath ; which tail turut all into

[i^tim grieve ;

probably from the Englifh.]

Greca'rious. ailj. [gregarius, Latin.]
Going in flocks or herds, like Iheep or

On grctnfword ground, a cool and grateful t*(le.

6.

Grief. «./.

I will inllrudl

ing to a flock.

grate,

and iron.'] A portable >grate on
which
meat is laid to be broilecl upon the fire.
He had added two b.-rs to the gridiron. SpeEtatof

a ftep.

;

green,

Dryden.

Gri'diron. n.f [grind. Iflandick, a

Gre'gal. otlj. [grex.gregis, Lat.J Belong-

After break thcfr £ail

5.

And for a Ihade betwixt the \Aoom^ gridelin.

Sbakejp. mnter'i Tale.

A flight of fteps

from degrees.]

This is the preltieft low-bom lafi that ever
Ran on iht gretn/-ux>rJ.
Siaie/p. H'inur'tTale.

4.

feen,

01 Florence fatten, flower'd with white and

He who

from him

Can fend his brother.

grows.

u

A

Greeze. n.f. [Otherwife written ^wff.
See Greece, or Grieze, or Grice;

Gree'nsward. «./. [green inA fivard
J
Grh'ensword. 5 of the the fame original
with/x(.<7/^.J
The turf on which grafs

.

!

M greetings, that a king, as friend.

Give you

'f'^-

So fore

The griding fword, with difcontinuous
wound,
Pafs'd through him
MiltonS Paradife Lofl.
Gridelin. adj.
colour mixed of white
and red.
The ladies drefs'd in rich fymars were

GR£'iiTi\G. n.f. [from^wr.] Salutation
at meeting, or compliments at a diftance.

Sour eruftations, and a craving appetite, efpecially

of terrefttial and abforbcnt

r\

„

greets.

palenefs which it produces

2.

did gride.

To meet and falute.

Suatefp.
Such was that lace on which I dwelt with joy.
Ere Greece alTcmblcd llemm'd the tides
to Troyj
But parting then for that detefted (hore.
Our eyes, unhappy! mwt greeted moM.
Pope

man in the greemufs and
and in the latter date and
fleclenfion of his drooping years, and you will fcarce
know it to belong to the fame perfon.
Souih.
Talce the pifture of a

1.

».

And fleep in peace.

vivacity of bis youth,

^.

i'.

pdlfrant fway,
1 bat througa his thigh the mortal Itecl

Shahe/p. Khig Lear.

There ^r«,' in filence, as the dead are wont.

Sidtiey.

Frefhnefs; rigou

J.

His poignant fpea/ he Ihruft wi,h

-—We wiii greet the lime.

were excufed by (he greawefi of his youth, which
toolc all the fault upou itfeii, loved a private man's
wife.

G R I

V'our hafte
Is now- urg'd on you.

„.

part;

to

To

be in pain for

mourn; to forrow,

as for the death of friends.
It has fometimes ai and fometimes for before the
caufe of grief : perhaps ^r is proper be-

lore our misfortunes, and
for before our
faults.

Do not you grieve at this.

Shakefp. Henry IV.

How didU thou grieve then, Adam, to behold
Tn« eiid of all thy offspring end fo lad.
Mi/ton.

Wiih equal mind what happens let us bear;
Nor joy nor grieve too much fr things beyond our

""

^
Grie'vingly,
,

Dryden.
,

eid-v.

[from grietx.]

In

fotxow; forrowfully.
5

U »

OV/o/;>j/(/, 1 think,

Tlje

G R I

G R I

G R I
m

Tor while we wrangle here and jar,
We are grilUd all at Temple-bar.

I
not »»1um
"Tin pe«ct befw«n tht French «nd
The coft ihil did conclude it. Sbai. Hinry Vlll. I

There grimly fmil'd,

Nor

GRIE'VOUS. adj. [gra-vis, Latin ; or from GRIM. adj. [jpimma, Saxon.]

Having a countenance of terrour; hor-

1.

rible; hideous; frightful.

Affliaive; painful; hard to be bom.

I.

To the flclh,

as the apoftle himfclf gnnleih,

all

Hazier.

affliflionis naturally g'-/"'o»/.

gricvoia unto him that forfalteih
the way, and he that hateth reproof Ihall die.
Correflion

is

The innocent prey in hafte he does forfake.
Which quit from death, yet quakes in every limb,
With change of fear to fee the lion look fo grim.

a. Such as caufcs forrow.
To own a great but grinnui truth, though they
quicken and fliarpen the invention, they corrupt the
"}'"
temper.
3. Exprefling a great degree of uneafincfs.
lie durft not difobey, but fent gricvoui complaints to the parliament of the ufage he was forced

Thou haft a grim appearance, and thy face

4. Atrocious ; heavy.
It was ag>/W«KJ fault.
Sbuh/f.
Add gricvoudy hath C«efar anfwer'd it.
Crying fins 1 call thofe, which are fo heinous,
ihey
haften
and in their kind l"o grievous, that
God's judgments and call down for fpeedy vengeance
Perkint.
upon thefinner.
_
low lan5. Sometimes ufed adverbially in

Their dear caufes
Would to the bleeding and the grim alarm
Sbakeff. Macbeth.
Excite the moriiHcd man.

What if the breath that kindled \\vAt.grim fires,
Awak'd,

The cruel wrinkle of a tyrant brow. Devham's Sofby.
Their fwarthy hofts would darken all our plains.
Doubling the native horrour of the war.
Addijan's Cato.
And making death more grim.

Divine Ulyfles ; who with lookes exceeding grave
and grim,
Cbapman.
This better check gave.
GWmvifae'd war had fmooth'd his wrinkl'd front.
Shake/p.
Venus was like her mother; for her father is but
Sbakefp.
.
grim.

Red as the rofe, thence gulhed grinnjujly. Sfnjir.
With difcontent; with ill-will.
.^! Cirittus perceiving how ^r/rvfitt^ the matter was
taken, wiih the danger he was in, began to doubt.

iaformation, oftentimes grlcvoujly vexed.

eafmefs.
Houfes built in plains are apt to be grievoujly anRay oh iht Crialion.
noyed with mire and dirt.
a.

[from gri(mius.'\

/.

Sorrow ; pain ; calamity.
They fled from the fwords, from the drawn fword
and from the bent bow, and from the grir-voufntji
ofwar.

Gii'pnN. "I ». /.

V- "' >5[This ihould rather be

written jfr))/o», O^ gryphon;
but it is generally written
A fabled animal, faid to be
griffon.'\
generated between the lion and eagle,
and to have the head and paws of the Hon,
and the wings of the eagle.

Gri'ffON. J

grypi, y^u^ ;

J

[French, from^r/»».]
A diftortion of the countenance from

Grima'ce.
1.

near the one-ejed nuioot grifint defended the mines
tfrc-tiw.
of gold.

arts of diflimulation, cunning men will do
Soutb's Sermons.
wanders.
The buffoon ape, with grimaces and gambols,
VEftrange.
carried it from the whole field.
The French nation is addifted to grimace. Spea.

little

Air of affeftation.

2.

Vice in a vizzard, to avoid grimace.
Allows all freedom, but to fee the face. Granville.
Grima'lkin. 7t. /. [gris, French; grey.

and malkin, or little Mo/A] Grey
woman the name of an old cat.

little

;

Grimalkin, to domeftick vermin fworn

An everlarting foe, with watchful eye
Lies nightly brooding o'er a chinky gap,
Protending her fell claws, to thoughSels mice
hbillfs.
Sure niin.

Grio. »./. [iriike. Bavarian, a little duck.] Grime. »./. \itom griin.'] Dirt deeply inIt feems originally to have fignified ary
thing lielow the natural fize.
fnudl eel.
3.

finuated ;

1.

A
3. A

mcrr>'

[Suppofed ^from

creature.

Crf(k ; gracKlusfeJU-vus, Latin.]
Hard is her heart as flint or ftonc.
She laughs to fee me pale j

And mciry as a g'ig is grown,
Andbri* as botOe-ale.

Ta Grill, -v.n. [grille,

Gri'llade. U.J. [from^»//.]

Any thing

broiled on the gridiron.

<To

t.

Gri'lly.
word figp.if.es,
hurt : as we
U Uii/t kin.

[from

a.

grill.]

This

feems, to harafs; to
now fay, n roafi a men, for
as

it

fullylng blacknefs

not

eafily

Horror;

^from grim.}

To GRIN, t: n. [jjienman, Saxon; grinrun, grinden, Dutch, undoubtedly of the
fame origin with To grind, as we now iij
10 grind the teeth ; grincer, French.]
1. To fet the teeth together and withtiratv
the lips either in anger or in mirth.
Death, death

!

oh, amiable, lovely deaih

1

Come grin on me, and I will think tliou fmil'ft,
For one to truft his hand between his teeth.
When he might fpum him with his foot away, Sbak
It was no unpleafant enrertainment to me to Ice
the various methods with which they have attacked
me; fame with piteous moans and outcries, other*
grinning and only Ihewing their teeih. Siillingjlrr!.
A lion's hide he wears;
About his Ihoulders hangs the Ihaggy Ikin
The teeth and gaping jaws feverely grin. Dryjen.
They neither could defend, nor can purfue ;
But grinn'd their teeth, and caft a helplefs view.

DryJen'
Madnefs, we fancy, gave an ill-fim'd birth
frantick
mirth.
Priir,
and
to
To grinning laughter,
Fools grin on fools, and Stoicklike fupport.
Young.
Without one figh, the pleafures of a court.

To fix the teeth as in anguilh.

2.

I like not futh grinning honour as Sir Walter
hath: give me life, which if I can fave, fo; if nof,
honour comes unlook'd for, and there's an end.
Sbakefp. Henry IV.

To

dirt ; to fully deeply.

My face 1 '11 ^r/me with filth,
Blanket my loins, ell all.my hair in knots.
Sbakeffeare.

Gri'mly. ad-v. [from grim.']
I.

Horribly; hideoufly
We've landed in HI time

;

:

The aft of

clofing the teeth and (hewing them.

He laughs at him

terribly.
. \e (kics look grimly.

Sbakefp.
And threaten prcfer.t bUiftcrs.
So Pluto, fei7.'d of I'loferpinc, convey'd

To licil's trcmci'/dous ^luom ill' afi'n^htcd maid;

:

in's face too.

— O you miftakehim; 'twas an humble jr/«,
Dryden.

The fawning joy of courtiers and of dogs.
The mufdes were fo drawn together on each fide
of his face, that he Ihcwed twenty teeth at a grin.
Addifin.
Deifts are eflSifVually beaten in all their combats
teafon
and
arguthat
is,
men,
at the weapons of
ments; and they would now attack ouc religion
with the talents of a vile animal, that is, gn'n and
kVatts on the Mind.
grimace.
\Vhat lords are thofe faluting with a grin *

Young.
One is juft out, and one is lately in.
A
n.f. [jpyn, JJTene. Saxon.]

Grin.

fnarc ; a trap
Like a bride that hafteth to his g'yn, .
Chaucer.
Not knowinge the perile.
The grin (hall take him by the heel, and the
^ni, xvjii. 9.
robber Ihall prevail againft him.

GRIND, rv. a. preter. I ground ; part.

T'o

ground.

pad.

[jpini>an,

jejj-.unben,

ground, Saxon.]
1. To redyce any thine to powder by friction ; to comminute oy attrition.

And

Swart, like my ihoe, but her face nothing fo
clean kept ; for why ? She fweats: a man may go
Sbakefp.
over (hoes in x\\z grime a{ it.
Coilow is the woid by which they denote black
on
Foffils.
grime of burnt coals or wood. IVoodivard

To Grime, v. a. [from the noun.]

a grate, French.]

». /.

frightfulnefs of vifage.

clean fed.

Suiji.

To broil on a grate or gridiron.

Gri'mness.

Grin. »./ [from the verb.]

Againlt th' haranguer's politicks.
With fmart remarks of leering faces.
tjudibras.
And annotations of grimaces
The favourable opinion and good word of men
comes oftentimes at a very eafy rate; and by a few
demure looks and afiefled whims, fet off with fome
odd devotional poftures and grimaces, and fuch other

Of all bearing among thefc winged creatures, the
Ptacham on Klax,i>ning.
tilffn is the moft ancient.
Arifteus, a poet of Proconefus, aliirmed, that

». /.

habit, affeftation, or infolence.
He had not fpar'd to ftiew his piques,

Hooktr.

4. Vexatioufly; to a great degree of un-

Grie'vousness.

Ugly; ill -looking.

2.

Strait flood up to him

Calamitoufly; miferably.
I fee how a number of fouls are, for want of right

The augurs
Say they know not; they cannot tell; look, grimly.
Sbakeff,
And dare not fpeak their knowledge.

Sbakeff.

He that dares to die.
May laugh at the grim face of law, and fcorn

». Painfully ; with nam.
Wide was the wound, and a large lukewarm flood.

3.

fullenly.

What valour were it, when a cur doth grin.

Grie'vously. eufii. \^fTomgne-v6tts.]

KndUu

Ae tieauteouj

(hould blow them into fevenfold rage ?

Expert to turn the fway
Of battle, open when and where to clofe
Miltm's PdraJife Lofi.
The ridges of grim war.

guage.
He cannot come, my lord ; he's grirvoitj fick.
Sbaif/f.

Shakeff. CorioUnus.

Bears a command in't.

Clanndon,

to fubmit to.

'

Bound in tholi gloomy cavet with adamantine chains.
Drayl»ft.

with

envy'd Jove his funfhine and his Ikies. Adiifn,

2. Sourly ;

Sftnfir.

Grim Saturn yet remains,

Prav.xi. 10.

pteas'd

priie

HuJihrat,

whofoever fliall

fall

on this

ftone,

(ball

be

broker. ; but on whomfocver it ftiall fall, it w ill gi ind

him to powder.

AUir.

.>

wheat, muft
Sbak. Tnilus and Crejftda.
seeds tarry
What relation or afhnity is there between a minute body and cogitation, any more tha:i thegreateft ?
Is a fmall drop of rain any -.vifer than the ocean ?
Or do we grind inanimate corn ir.to living and raBenlicfs Sermons,
tional meal ?

He that will have a cake out of the
t\it grinding.

2.

To (harpen or fmooth by rubbing on
fomething hard.
Meeting with lime, flack thing, faid I,

Thy fithc is dull; whet it, for ftiame
No maivi.1. Sir, he did rejly.
If

it

at length dcfervc fome

:

blame;

But where one man would hnvt me grind it»
Herbert.
Twenty to one too ftiarp do Uitd ii
\

Again*

Smiths that make hinges brighten them, yet feU
dom hie them ; but grind them on a grinJjione 'till

So up he let him rife : who with grim looki

;

Be the winner.

Gri'nninglt.

Addifon's Sfeetator.

ad-j.

To hold with the lingers clof^d ;
grafp ; to prefs with the fingersi.
He that fpeaks doth gripe the heaterV WVi(V,

He fciz'd the Ihining bough with griping hold.
And rent away with eafe the ling'ring gold. Dryd.

Addlf^n.

[Giipper, French

3.

In the foilowing .Hoes. I know notwhetherit be not corruptly ufed ioi griding,'

Ibclofc;

4.

to

Icatt to others.

On the hard rock, and give a wheely form
To the eipeflcd ^rM</fr.

fickncfs, and

P billft.

L'jtke.

:

I

Therefore rtill on high

.

'

1

.

'

.:

^uch gri^ from Cambridge to his lot did fall.
And all the corn they us'datfcholar's hall.
Miller o/Tromp,

•

Henry V;

Ulijkejp.

'liry^en;^.
•"

54111

•.'

'

Matteras wife logicians fay,.

^ And form, fay I, as well as they,
'

3.

Sw:/;,
Muft fail, if nutter brings no gr//?.
GRisy to Mill, is profit; gain.
the Computation of degrees, in all matrimonial
caufes, is wont to be made according to the rules of.
that law, bccaufc it brings grJ/i to the mill,

GRIS'TLE.

'

i

cartilage ;

•

Fit

.n'*al'otic«'He' Sriili'd the

[from ^r/W and

That tui.T It. ir.d like grindlejiones,

'Tis true, the hard-

And the cold lips rtti
T

Ben J^nfdfi.

grindJlont\u!biSfta the coulters,

t

as oyllers, cr»bs, lobfters,

':> r:iv ^.uif?

Out of
Toaii.
4..

llammorU,

I

ly mafter,

Afflittiuii ; Y'nching diltfcfs,

Adam, ut the nbwt

and ^fpeciall) tha tortoife,

have bones within them, but only litilc :»/-//!/i'j.
Bacon's Natural Hijlory,.
JUcftth^ afperity or hardnefs of cartiliges (hould
hurt the trfdphagus or gullet;, v/hich is t-nder and.
ofalkmny fubltance, or hinder the fwaUowiiig of
,

,

wi give \i

'

uutural faculties.

A
in

No living creaturess. that have (hells very hard,

the gripe.
Dryde^i,
npc.
'i'ls

3. Opprcffion ; crulhin'g power.
'

Aylijf'e.

n.f. [srur^l*-] Saxon.]
a part of the body next

hardnefs to a bone.

-'Gri'nl-stone.
j
7?««. j The (lone on
whith edged inftrumcuts are (harfiened.
Such a lijht and mcttalt'd dance
Saw you never yet 111 Franco ;
And by ;!it ieaitrmen, for ihc nonce,

provifion.

Cannot without a form fubfiik

I

^

Supply;

2.

Liiell r and wiil, mv svcijjiit the helm coalUain'jl,
\ya»4i;aWQ j;
et'my
_tt'
pifitc\,iin'i.
reiiln'd.
a^l £>v'jw

llfyden.

:

f

1

'''Comm.ind my fervlce.

I

'

Get grifi to tlie mill to have plenty in (lore,
TuJ/er's llu/bandrj,
Le(l miller lack water.
Almighty trade this lutly millerdrove ;

•

I

.

AriiaiSnut,

r

L

Grist. «./. [snip^, Saxon.]
1. Corn to be ground.

I

I

and

,

.

tommis the aliments.

j

Dryd, Inno,-

Their manly bofoms pietc'd with many a griejly
wound.
Dryd
Addijon.
Sj rulhes on his foe the grijly bear.

1

Threat'niog with greedy ^r/^r to do UUni.jj.^nfi
They put a barren (cepite fp my gripe, j ;
Thence to be wrench'd with aauulineal iiknc.Sia,
Should I
;.,.,
Slaver with iips, as common as the (lairs
That mount the Capitol ; ^o'mgripcs with hands
Made hard wTth hourly lallhood as with labour.
'.''
Shak^peare.
x
He gave me'fiis hanJ, And, with .1 fe5ble^'''7>-'i fiys,dear, my lori},'

Drydtn,

Diyden,
'fhus the grijly fpeiftre fpoke »j;aii>.
Clofe by eacli other laid, they prefs'd the ground,.

He over him did hold his cruel cjaw

uneven and rugged, that, by their knobs jnJ liitic
cavities, they may the better retain, grind, and

One, vvl^o at the fight of fupperopen'd wi^e
His^wtVefoiie, and whetted ^/Wtri try'd. V^'d.
£ofh he brought s
.
He mouth'd them, and betwim his grinden' csm\\

The king of terrors raging in thy race.

to catch at money meanly.

GRiPE.'ff./. [from the verb.]
Grafp ; hold ; feizure of the hand or paw.
.

With the old hunter Darve lor want of prey. Sandys.
The jjw-teeth, 01 grinders, in Latin molares, ate
made flat and broad a-top, and withal fomewhit

The teeth, in irony or contempt.

;

His mean revenue, by being Icattcred, in the
wortt of jtjmcs growing upon; him, when others ih.it
had great ones, by griping, made them lefs, and
grew Itark beggars.
fe/i.

the foreteeth ; broad, a^ the back -teeth, which wc
call the molar-teeth, or grinders; and painted teeth,
or canine, which arc between both,
Bacan.
He the raging lioncfs confounds,
The roaring lion with his javelin wounds;
Scatters their whelps, their gi-W^ri breaks ; fo they

Ray on the Crtaiiin.
Nature is at a great deal of labour to traiifmute
vegetable into animal fubftances j therefore herbeatin* aninuls *hich do tiot ruminate, have ilroag

L'.cke_

To pinch

2.

The baouteous form of tight.
Is chang'd, and war appears a gri/ly light.
Invifion thou llialt fee his ^rZ/Ty face,

fomctimcs of acute pains oi^r/^/Vi^^ in

us.

The back teeth ; the
[gT'nb toSaf.]
double teeth.
The teeth are in men of three kinds (harp, as

»"Gri n»le»tome. 1 n. f.

Yet thus, unmov'd wiiii tear, accult him foon. Milt,
For that damn'd magician, let him be girt
With all ihtgri/ly legions that troop
Miltont
Under the footy flag of Acheron.

Manna, by the bulk, fignre, texture, and motion
of its parts, has a power to produce the lenfalions of

Thy hinds toczeiclfe the pointed fteel

•^'''•'

;

Shakefp. H.Vl.
Back (lep'd thoC; two fair angels, half amaz'd
So fudden to behold t\KgriJly king ;

Many people would, with reafon, prefer the griping of an hungry belly to thofe dilhes which are a

Now exhort

{WW«ri and chew much.

My grijjy countenance made others fly
Nod; durit come near, for fear of fudden death.

To feel the colick, to have the belly-ach.

1

And harder than l\it grinder's nether llonc. Sandys.

4.

To give a pain in the bowels.

To Gripe, 'v. n.

His heart afolid rock, to fear unknown.

3.

'V\\egrijly toadllool grown there might 1 fee. Spenf.

Crip'd all the way, and longing for a vent. Dryden.

one that works in a

Spenfer,.

Where 1 was wont to feek the honey bee,

Thus full of cojnfel to the den (he went,

The inftruraent of grinding.

2.

Hls^r^ locks, long growen and unbound,
Dil'ordered hung about his (houldets round.

)
Dryden's Fables,

miU.

meat, Itifti.j

[gri/gin, roaft

horrible ; hideous ; frightful 5 terrible.

|

Gkf'nder. n./. [from grinJ.]

A ftep, or fcale of fteps.

1 he vertebra of a hog broiled.
Gri'sly. adj. [jjuj-lu, Saxon.] Dreadful ;.

flatUcsi and oft eflay'd their jaws

in blood.

6.

^

Let me fpcak like ourfelf; and lay a fentence.
Which, as igrifeoT ftep, may help thefe lovers
Si^akejpeare' s Othelh.
Into your favour.

K

food,

Shrinking fmews ftart,
Aodfmeary foam works o'er my grinjiftgjiw^,
Roxue,

~

'

Grise. n.f. [See Greece, as it Ihould be

Gri'skin. »./.

From lion's claws to pluck the griped prey. Speiifer.
Andhrlt the dame came rulhing thro' the wooJ ; ^
And nest the faniilh'd hounds that fought ihckr )

To be moved as in the aft of grinding.

;

;

Aiidipif'di.tc

,

be written.]

to prefs ; to fqueeze.
A wond'ious way it for this lady wrought.

Fetter'd they fend thee

One that grinds

Sbak.

to clutch.

Pope.

To pitch

5.

Ufed by Miltcn for

Bealis of chafe, or iWwl of g^e,

!

Into the common prifon, there to grind
MiitonU Agonijies,
Among the llavcs and alics.

1.

;

Unlucky Welfted thy unfeeling mailer,
The more thou ticklell, gripes his hand the fafter.

'

a grip-

;

Spen/er.

Grisa'mber. ». f.

You took occifion to hi ijuickly woo'd,

move a mill.

2;

.

ing mifer.

Inpaftry built, or from the fpit, orboil'd,
Milton's Paradife Regair^ed.
Grifamber fteam'd.

To grip: the gen'ral fway into your hands.

'

;

G R I'p L E a./. A greedy fnatcher

to feize.

cutting.
Kdt knowing 'twas my labour, I complain
Offudden Ihoolings, ani of grinding pains.
My throws came thicker, aod my cries cccreas'd.
Drydepi

To perform the afl of grinding

Clyilers help, led the medicine Hop in the guts,
Bacon's Natural Hijiory,

and woii. gripingly.

arabergrife.

To eaten eagerly

J

pain in the guts.

'

Bacon*! Advice to I'iUters.

With

Gri'pingly. fli/t;, [from ^r/^»«j'.]
1

Another way the Spaniards have taken to ^riW,
the Neapolitans, and yet to take o6f the odiom from

1 .

Others pretend zeal, and yet are profelTed ufurers,
Burton.
grifers, monlters of men. and harpies.

to

WhiUt he that hears makes fearful adibh
With wrinkl'd brows.
Sbakejp. King John.
2. To hold hard.

Oppreffor

ufurer ; extortioner.

bcottifti.]
t .

Flayer,

windinefs.

Gri'per. ». /. \irom gripe. 1

;

Some merehants and tradefmen, under colour of

ToGrind. 1/. ».

;

Grip.»./. Afinallditch.
Ainf-oorth.
To GRIPE, a/, a. [gra/,a». Ciothicic
jpippri, Saxon ; gnj/en, Dutch j grij>j>,

{

furnilhing the color/y with necedaries, may not grind
them fo a&lhall always keep them in poverty.

5.

:

With

[from grin.^

a grirming laugh.

to opprefs.

themfclves.

Fram'd for the tender offices of love.
Endure the bilter£i//)« of fmarting poverty? Ottvay,
colick.
Belly-ach
5. [In tlie plural.]
In the jaundice the cholcr is wanting
and the
iderical have a great fournefs and gripes, with

Thi fri|htful*ft^Ww«cr

Spenfer.
His grated teeih lorgrcitw.lddin.
Harlh faunds, as of a faw when it is (harpened, and
grinding of one ftone againll another, make a Ihivering or horror in the body, and fct the teeth on
Bdcon*i Nuturui Hijh'y.
edge.
That the ftomach in animarsgr/m/x the fubitances
which it receives, is evident from the diiiciflton of
animals, which have fwojlou'ed metals, which have
been found poliihed ou the fide next the liomach.
Aibulhn(4 on Aiimiftts,

To harafs

!

bright.

And coum':wnce llcrn,urlliiuding, 'gan 1.0 grinJ

4.

He>rt-(truckwith chilling gripe of forrow Aood,
That all his fenfes bound
Mi/irfrs Paradi/e Lo/?.
Can'ft thou bear cold and hunger? Can thele iimbs,

Moxon.
Gri'nner. «.yl [from^n'«.] He that grins.

To rub one againft another.

3.

G R I

G ft i

G R I
A'ainft a ftump his tu(k ih; monger grhJi.
And in ihc Iharpcn'd edge new vigourtinds. Dryd.

Shafi.

.

our mear, therefore the annuhry gnjiles .if thewindpipe, are n«l nude lound, oi.iuuri. tirdes j but

wheit

G R O
where the gullet louchn the winilpipe, there, to fill
up the circle it only a foft membrane, which may
caGly give way ta the dilatation of tUc gullet. Ray.

Gri'stlv. ai/j. [from gri/}/e.]
nous; made of griftle.

Grizzled,

Cartilagi-

danger of brealcin;, than if they wen all one iatire
bone without thefegi-//?/)ijuntlures.
Mire.
Fins are made of griji/y fpolces, or rays conoe<3ed
by membranes ; fo that they may be conCrafled or
Baj'extended like women's fans.
They have a louder and ftronger note than other
only
a
birds of the fame bigncfs, which have
?'y?/y
Grnu.
windpipe.
Each pipedift!«guilhMby its^rZ/^/yrings,

To cherilh life aerial pafture brings.

as in pam or agony.

the Jiuhit peteolanus of the ancients,

Or a lov'd brother groan'd his life away. Pope's Od.

[from^r/V.]

Full of ha^d

particles ; confifting of grit.

Nrvron.

%rilly particles thereof.

Into a goodly lodge,
Spenfer.
From Egypt's kings ambalTadours they come ;
I'hem many a fquire attends, and many tgroom.
Fairfax,
Think then, my foul that death is but a gro'^rn
'

!

Which brings a taper to the outward room.
In the time of Edward VI.

Dryitn,

Hence aching bofoms wear a vifage gay,

By the prefuming hands of faucy grooms.
Amid' the fold he rages, nor the (heep

1

drefs'd ;

Groove, n.'f [horn grave.

dare lay a groat,
tertian ague is atleallyour lot. Drydeti's Failcs.
Imagine a perfon of quality to marry a woman
much his inferior, and without a groat toiler fortune.

He might, to avoid idlenefs work in i gromv ert
mine-pit tberc-abouts, which at that time was little
cdeemcd.
2.

A

The fcrew-plate is a kind of Itecl well
in thofe holes

adj.

[more properly griddin.

their prefenf ftatc feems to favour.]
A grocer is a man who buys and fells tea, fugar,
.H'atts'sLAgick.
and plumbs and (pices forgain.
But dill the olnpring of your brain (hall prove
of Jove. Gjr/fc.
r.ige
The grocer's care, and brave the

See Grid EI. IN.]
The Burgundy, which is grimlin or pale red, of
all others, is furefl to ripen in our climate.

GRl'ZZLE. IT, /. [from gris, pray
Jaillt, French.]

black

;

Temple.
;

gri-

A mixture of whitc^ and

gray.

O thou diffcmhling cub

!'•

what wilt thou be,
Vi'heatimchvhfow'd a^r/sx/<'o[\ thy tate, Sb.xk.
!

.

Gro'cery. «. /, [from grocer.'\

Grocers

wave, fuch as tca^ fugar; naifins ; fpice.
His troops being now in a country where tlKy weie
not expedled, met with many cart loads of wint,'
grocery, and tobacco,

Oimdihti

tempered,

each lefs than other; and

threads grooved inwards,

To GR6b*-E. f. a. [from the noun.]

[This Hiould be written

which

To

cut hollow.

Of the box every joint was vnWgroov.d,

To GROPE, V, ft. [?;papan, Saxon.]
feel where one cannot fee.
'

'

Gri'zelin.

are

it,

grooves fit the refpeilive taps that belong to them.
Moxon'i Alccb. Exer,

Groats. Oats that have the hulls taken

grojjer, from gro/s, a large quantity; a
"gricer originally being one who deait by
wholefaie ; or from grojns, a fig, which

Boyle,

.

A channel or hollow cut with a tool.

with feveral holes in

Sv.i/i.

Ainfivorth.

'\

A deep cavern, or hollow in mines.

1.

I

Dryd,

All Rhodes is fummon'd to the nuptial feaA.

My mother was wont

GRO'CER; w./.

prefume for to intreat this gram

And filly maid, from d.mgcr to redeem,
Fairfax,
3. A man newly married.
By this the brides are wak'd, their grooms are

To call them woollen valfals, things created
To buy and fell with groats. Sbakefp. Coriolanut.

off.

A young man.

2.

Spei^fi-r.

A piece valued at four -pence.
A proverbial name for a fmall fum.

Drydcn,

Their (hepheids, nor the^raun.1 their bulls can keep.
Dryden,

Groat. «,/. [groot, Dutch; grojjb, Italian,]

3.

Peacbam,

Would 'ft thou be touch'd

Such Iheets of fire, fuch hurfts of horrid thunder.
Such groans of roaring wind and rain, 1 never

Tliat back again it did aloft rebound.
And gave againit his mother earth i groanful found.

lived

into vcrfe.

|

And ftirted groans frequent the ball and play. Toungi
2. Any hoarfe dead found.
Remember to have heard, Sbakrfpeare's King hear.
Gro'.aNFUL, <7(^'. \groan 2.x\A full.\ Sad;
agonizing.
Not ufed.
Adown he keft it with fo puilTant wrcft,

Donne,

Sternhold,
whom King Henry his lather had made groom of
his chamber, for turning of certain of David's pfalms

;

•

1 could not difccrn the unevennefs of the furface
of the powder, nor the little Ihadows let fall from the

;

And ev'n from hence their dying ^oa'^r receive.

Sandi-

Miller,

Then called (he a graom, that foiih liim led

Where fighs and groans, and fhrieks that rend the air,

1.

Latin.]

A plant.

Groom, /. [grar.m, Dutch i]
a fcrvant.
1. A boy; a waiter

Shakefp. Macbeth.
Aie made, not mark'd >
I led to (laughter, and to (laughter leave

2.

»,/! [^litbo/per/ttiim,

Gromill orgraymill.

Al.as poor country.

erofcopc, nor any grittinefi. Murtimer^s tiuJJ^andry.

adj.

Gro'mwell.

Breath expired with noife and difficulty,
from pain, faintnefs or wearinefs.

focollo of

nefs ; the quality of abounding in grit.
In fuUer's-earih he could And no fand by thftmi-

Caftfromhischariof,roll'dhimon the ground. Dryd.

Groan, »./. [from the verb,]
1.

^

the deadly

ff.

On the blazing pile his parent lay,'

lieautifully green, dull grit, is the chry-

the ancients, which they ufed
in folderine gold, long fuppofed a loft
foflil.
It ferves the purpofe of foldering metals better than borax.
The ferrugineous black glittering grit, is the
black fhining fand employed to throtv
over writing, found on the fhores of
Hill en Fofil,.
Italy.

South.

pains.

gnin ;

through and pierc'd his

wound

Nothing can fo peculiarly gratify the noble difpofitions of humanity, as for one man to fee another fo
much hirafelfas to figh his griefs and groan his

One fort is a fine,
hering into a mafs.
dull looking, grey grit, which, if wetted with fait water, into mortar or pafte,
dries almoft immediately, and coalefces
into a hard ftony mafs, fuch as is not

mixed among their cements ufed in buildings funk into the fea ; and in France
and Italy an ingredient in their harder
plaifters, under the name of poxaolane.
It -is common on the fides of hills in
Italy, Another fpecies, which is acoarfe,

X'afs'd

Togood malignant, to bad men benign,
Under her own weight groaning. Milt. Par. Lcjl

kind of powder ;

This

The fatal dart arrives,
And through the border of his buckler drives ;

lyi/d. v, 3.

Grits are foflils found in minute mafles,

Svsift,

derivation.]

Aniiplcus, a fonne of Priam, threw
Hij lance at Ajat through the ptealTe, which went by
him, and Bew
On Leiicus, wife tilylTes' friend : Hi(^«i«isfinaCt,

So (hall the world go on,

Will rife luxuriant, and with toughelt root
Pierce the obltrufling grii and rellivc marie, P&ilifs.

Gri'ttv.

Groin. ».y; [Of uncertain
The part next the tliigh.

y»i. xiyv. ii.
wounded crieth out.
Repenting nudgraaning for anguilh of fpiilt.

The fturdy pear-tree here

Addijin.

Plaingoody would nolonger down j
'Twas madain in her^c^rjM gown.

the

Grnu.

Gri'ttiness, ff. /. \Uom gritty/\

ty in town had ever done in brocade.

;

Sbakefp. Z:i'iolanu%.
Men groan from out of the city, and the foul of

eafily afterwards difunited by water.

this habit of John's was nei-

will fay

viour (hot mc through and through, and did n>ore
excution upon me in gt:>gr;im than the grcatill beau-

Have I heard grotsn and drop.

;

Sandys,

Some men

'

Ti GROAN. V. tt. [jpanan. Saxon grmen,
Dutch.] To breathe witli a hoarie noife,

Silefian bole, crackling a little betwixt the teeth,
yet without the lead paiticle of grit, feels as fmooth

is

grain.

the like.
Brenvn.
The natural fv.'ectnefs and innocence of her beha-

Oats hulked, or coarfely ground.
Sand ; rough hard particles.

a

Dottne,
Natolia aSbrds great (lore of chamelot) and gri.

Living creatures generally do change their, hair
with aee, turned to be gray and white ^ .as is fccii in
men, though tome earlier, fome later ; iu horfes that
are dappled and turn white ; and in old fijuirreU that
Bacon,
turn gf ix^x/y.

Many an heir
Of thefe fair edifices, for my wars,

the feveral particles of which are of no
determinate (hape, but feem the rudely
not
broken fragments of larger maffes
to be diflolved or difunited by water,
but retaining their figure, and not co-

ua.

ot thiimind

ther ofcSmers (kin nor any coaife textuieof its hjir,
but rather fome liner weave of cantelot, grogram, or

Blaeknun,

as foap.

i

G&i'zzLX, adj. [from gris, gray, French.]
Somewhat gray.

The coarle part of meal.

forming together

Certci they're neatly cloth'd ;

Your only wearing is yourgrogeram.

Drydcn tmJ Lee's Oedipus.
Thjfe ^'/*«/e5 locks, which nature did provide
Dryd.
lu plenteous growth their aflcs ears to hide.

GRIT. «,/. [jnyzra, gtcoz, Saxon.]

4.

:

A» in green old age.

imM irifl/j bits, that are eaten off tram tlie
HarV'y.
She has made the back-bone of feveral vertebrae,
fit to bend, more tough,
and lefs in

3.

5

I

M being more

2.

Inter-

His hair juft{n'sa/ri/,

lung'pipes.

1.

[from jn'sa/f.]

i

At laft theyfpit out pieces of their lungs ; it may
be

G R O

^

Gro'oERAM. ^ »,/, [^rt;;, ^rtj;>, French
fperfed with gray.
Gro'gkam. >
groffograttus, low Latin.
To the boy Czhr, fend Ma^rixxled head, Shak. Gro'cran. J
.i^/*/w5»7Zi.-]Stuff woven
grixxleJ
np,
lis beard was
— It was as have fcen it in bis life, Stakeff. Ham. with large woof and a rough pile.
ndj.

'

Svift.

To

My fea-gown fcarf about me, in the dark
Grop'd 1 to find out them.

We grope ljr the

tirall

Sbakefpeare' s [Hamlet,
like the blind, and we

Ifa. lix. 10.
grtpr, .rs if wc had no eyes.
Jliey meet with daiknefs in the cleared light j
And groj>e itnoon, asif involv'd with night. Sandys.

A boy was growing for eels, and laid his hand on
I-' EJhange.
upon a fnake.
This, Ao doubt, is better for men than that they
^
(houid in the dark grope after knowledge ; as St.
Paul tells lis all h«iOns did after God,

Locke.

He

o ^

.

gl?

G R O

bare lUting of the queftion with perfpicui'.y and
juiWicfs, than others by talking of it in grofi confuiVatts,
lion for whole hours together.

He heird us in our courfe.
And with his outftretch'd arms around him grcp'd.
Adiijoit.

O truth divine

enlighteny by thy ray,
1 gropr and guefs no more, but fee my way.
Arhuthnot.
!

Ti Grcpe. f. a. To fearch by feeling in

Coarfe; rough ; oppoCte to delicate.

7.

Fine and delicate fculpturcs are helped with nearHinaa'i ArcbiuH.
with dillanc^.

nel's, and grcfi

8.

Thick.; fat; bulky.

the dark ; to feci' without being able to

His nal,uie wai. of juit height and all proportionate
dimenfioQs,

iee.

How Ti;i!ant to g^'^f' mens thoaghls,

and

They

kiuyvjard.
have left our endeavours to gropt them out

Or,

Sviifi.

Ihick; bulky.

Intelleftaally coarfe ; palpable;

off now one third part more >y' the manufadures, as
alfo lead and tin, tlun we dij twenty years pall.

Child on Trade,

Not individual; but a- body together.

3.

To all fenfe 'tis gr'y/i
You love nxy Ton invention is afham'd,

He hath ribbons of all the colours i' th' rainbow
they come to him by the grofi.
Sbakejp,
1 cannot inftantly raife up the groft
Of full thret iJicufaiid ducats.
Shakefp.
Yo« fee the united delign of many perfors to make
up one figure after they have feparated themfelves
in many petty diviiions, tliey rejoin one by one into
Dryden',
Z grofi,

;

Againll the proclamation of thy palliun.
Shakeff,
To fay thou do'll not.
earth exhort mc.
Examples grofi
Shaieff^
Belial came tall, than whom a fpirit more lewd
pru/i
love
to
from
heaven,
or
more
Fell not
Mtlion*t Paradife Lfjfl.
Vice for iifclf.
It not religion fo perfe^ly good in itfclf, above all,
in its authour, that, without the gfojfeji fenfuality,
Hfrait,
we cannot but admire it?
It is a grofi miltake of fome men, to tluDk that
want
only
and
naturally
iAduce
out
imperfections do
Smatridge,
us 10 be benehcenr,
But (he dares never boaft the prcfent hour,
Tourg.
Sogrojs the cheat, it is beyond herpow'r.

u

4. Inelegant; difproportionare in bulk.
The fun's opprelTive ray, the rofeate bloom
Of beauty blading, gives the gloomy hue,
Tbompjn*t Summer.
And feature grofi,

not

refined ;

not

attenuated

not pure.

:

ine chief part; the main raafs.

4.

The number of iwel/c dozen.

5.

[GmJJ'e,

French.]
It is made up only of that fimy\t idea of an

unite

repeated ; and repetitions of this kind, joined Kigemake thofe dillinO fimple modes of a do^cn,

thcr,

a^r^, and amillion.
Lccke,
Gro'sslk. fl/Zt;. [from_f«//.]
1. Bnlkily; in balky parts;
coarfcljas,
:

that when the eye (hndeth in the
the oljciS is in the grtffer,
things (hew greater, but contrariwife, when the eye
is placed in the grcffir medium, and the objedl in

Bason'a Natural Hijlory.

the finer.

Of elements.

The grojfrr feeds the purer; earth the fea.
Earth anJ the fea feed air.
MHioti'i Par. L',ft.
Light fumes are merry, grojer fumes are fad

Rjth are the re.ifonable foul run mad. Dryd. I'athi.

Or fuck the mills in grojfer air below,

Or dip their pinions in the painted bow.

Popt.

this matter ii grofsly pul-jerixed,

2.

Without

Dav'tet.

And in clear dream and folemn vilion.
Tell her of llnnps that no grofi ear can hear. Millar.

Such kind of ccrcmanics as have been (o grofs.
and (hamefuUy abufed in the church of Rome, w here
they remain, are fcandaloui.

1

Iboker.

Treafon and murder ever kept together.
As two yoke devils fworn to other's purpofe.

Working fo grrfily in a natural caufe,
That admiration did not whoop at them.

Shakefp,

give more light and knowledge by the

See it fo grvfily (hown in thy behaviour,
That in their kind they fpeak it.
Shakefp.
What arc we cuckolds ere we have deferv'd it >
Speak not(ogru/ily. Sbak. Merebafft of Venice,
What 1 have laid has been forced from me, by
feeing a iSoble fort cf poetry fo luppily rcltoicd by
I

Want of refinement; want of delicacy;
intelleflual coarfenefs.
I was three or lour times in
the thought they
were not fairies; and yet the guiltioefs of my mind
drove the grojfnef: of the foppery into a received
belief that they were fairies.
Shakefp.
Whatever beauties it may want, 'tis free at Icalt
from the grofjnefi of thofe fiults I mentioned. Dryd,
What a grojfnefs is there in the mind of that
man, whe thinks to reach a lady's heart by wounding
her ears
Clarljfa,

Grot. «./. \^rotte, French

;

groUa, Italian.]

Acave; a cavern for coolnefs and pleafure.
Jn the rcmoteft wood and lonely ^ror.
Certain to me t tliat wortl of evils, thought.
.^wful to fee the Egerian grot.

Prior,

Pope,

Grote'scjue. rt<//. \_grotcfque , French; grotf^fo, Italian

]

Dittcrted of figure; un-

natural ; wildly formed.
The diampaign head

Of a deep wiidernefs, whofe hairy fides'
With thicket overgrown, grutefque and wild,'
Actefsdeny'd.
Milton's Paradife Lojl.
There is yet a lower fort of pnelry and painting,
which is out of nature; for a farce is that in poetry
which grottfijue is in a piiSuie: the perfons and
aClions of a J.irce are all unnatural, and the manners falfe, that is, inconfifting with the charaiSersof

mankind: groiefi/ue fi\Mia%\> the juft refemblance
of this.
Dryden.
J\n hideous figure of their foes theydrew.

Nor lines, nor look?, nor (hades, nor colours true.
\

Dryden,Palladi.in walls, Venetian doors,
Grotej'co roofs, and ftucco floors.

ly ; palpably.

—

2. Inelegant fatnefs; unwieldy corpulence.
Wife men, that be over-fat and flefhy, go to fojourn abroad at the temperate diet of fome fobcr
man; and fo, by little and little, cat away the
grojfnefs that Is in them.
Afcham.

fubtilty ;

And thine eye.

doth rhen the fub«il« fenfe excel,
^^6mgroft are they that drown her in her blood f
If (he

arrived to that ^ro^iyi rcijuifite to refteil other co•
Ne%vloa'i Oplicks,
For enry'd wit, like Sol eclips'd, makes known
Th' oppoiing body's gr^ffnefs, not its own.
Pope,

lours.

And this ^rW(yj*c delign expos'd to publick

without art; without delicacy; without reCnement; coarfe-

6. Stupid ; dull.

Some me

'

Comets, .out of qucflion, have likcwifa power and
effeft over the grofi and mafj of things.
B.icon,
The articulate founds are more confirfed, thmjgH
tht grofi of the found be greater. Bacon's Nal. Hfl,

It is manifeft,

and

Triumphing over death.
Milton.
This being the firft colour which vapours begin
to reflefl, it ought to be the coUur of the hnell und

3.

:

impure;

unrefined.

when we

other wars require you
Dryden,
For fee the Saxon gmf begins (o move
Notwitlillanding the decay and lofs of fundry
trades and manulacluies, yet in the g'^ft we ihip

Lirw.

arul dulnels.

the particular,

Remember, fon.

You are » general

Mocker,

medium,

Then all this axihy gr offnefs quit
Attir'd with ftars we ihall lor ever fit.

motl tranfparent Ikies, in which the vapours are not

mention the feveral forts aud adls of our fins.
Duly of Man'.

There is a vain and imprudent ufe of their cHatcs,
which, though it does not delhoy like gmf! fins,
yet diforJers the heart, and fupportt it in fenfualiiy

finer

gi''>{f'"fi of the vapours which rife and enter into the
cells 01 the brain.
Bac9tu

not divided into

Certain general inducements are ufcd to make
Hooker,
There was in opinion in grofs, that the foul was
Abbot.
immorul.
There is confeflion, that is, the acknowledging
our fins to Cod; and this maybe either general or
particular : The general is, when we only confcTs
in grofi that wc are (inful;

Shakefp.

The caufe of the epilcpfy from the llomach is ihe

faleable your caufe in gr^'/t.

with fuch a multitude, and to be tenanu at will
Hotkrr.
under them.
They can Qly that in dofliine, in difcipline, in
prayers and in facraments, the chuich of Rome
H^krr.
hath very foul and g^'Ji corruptions.
So far hath the natur^ underAaading, even of
fnndry whole nations, been darkened, that they
have noc dilixraed, no, not gio/i iniquity to be (in.

;

freeholder.

Shakefp.

And 1 will purge that mortal grojfnefs fo.
That thou Ihalt like an airy fpirit go.

its feveral parts.

sKamefbl'; nnfecmly; enortnoo*.
He ripely cooGdered how g'ofi a thing it were
for men of his quaiit)', wife and grave men, to live

2..

thicknefs;

greatnefs of parts.

The purpofe is perfpicuous even as fubflance,

in

The bulk ; the whole

2.

not fubtilty;

Whofe grojfnefi little charailers fum up.

changes and revolutions than of publick
blcirings.
Addifon,
pcft

Siui. King Liai
There are two grofs volume* concerning the power
Bacon,
•f popes.

Denfe

A:idijffJl'i

Coarfenefs ;

fpiflitude ; denfity ;

The grofi of the people can have no other prol-

The crows and choughs, that whig the midway«ir,.

5.

1.

with caution leifurely we palV,

fon.

Lat.J

Shew fcarce fo gi-o/s as bcetlet.

3-.

if

R O

Gro'ssness. n,f, [from^nj/f.]

the main force.

Their numerous ^av^j might charge us one by one.
Dryden.
Several cafuifh are of opit^ion, that, in a battle,
you (hould difcharge uppu the grofi of the enemy,
without levelling your piece at any particular pcr-

[from gn>pe,'\ One that
». /.
fearches in the dark.
ifeOSS. adj. [groj, French; gro//i, Italian;
1.

;

The Belgians hop'd, that with dilbrder'd hailc
The deep-cut keels upon the fand might run

Gro'peR.

craj/lir,

and

of grofe

Fell.

1 he main body

1.

Brtrwn.

But Strephon, cautious, never meant
Th- bottom of the pan to g>3^f.

the extremes

Gross, n./, [from the adjeftive.]

Cy twilight, and by darkncl's almoU to difcover that,
whofe eiiftence is evidenced by light.

avoiding

meagre.

to

sick, cue fomewhat wheieof they might complain.

i^

one man, and fo grofsly copied by almoft all the
left.
Dryden.
If I fpeak of light and rays as endued with colours, 1 would be underilood to fpeak not philofophically and properly, but grofsly-, and according to
fuch conceptions as vulgar people would be apt to
frame.
Ne'jiton's Ofticks.
While it is fo difficult to learn the fprings and
motives of fome fafts, it is lo wonder they fhould
be fo grofsly mifrcprefentcd to the publick by cu.
nous inquilitive heads.
Swift,

Gro'tto.
Italian.]

n, /,

[grolfi;

Prjpe.

French; groUa,

A cavern or cave made for cool-

not ufed properly of a daric
horrid cavern.
nefs.

It is

Their carelefs chiefs to the cool grolles run,
Thetiow'rs of kings, to Ihade them from the fun.
Dryden,
This was found at the entry of tht grotto 111 the
Peak.
IVoodiL-a'd.

Grove, n.f, ^Jtcixn grtrvf,'\ A walk covered
by trees meeting above.
I

look'd toward Birnam, and anoD methought

The wood began to move
Withift.

.

G R O

9,
fee

Wrthin ihU three mile you tn»y

U comini

|

floWry »a^s;
FortuMte 6cWs, taig'-'nu,, ...a
A^''""'
Thrice happy in« I
wivineerwc
She left Uie flow'ry field, ind

Thy

perfection grown ;
llis crop invites, to full

Thy own fecms thin, bccauie it U thy own, DryJ.

.

Blackmnc.

Banifli'd from courts »nd love.

Abandon -d truth feeksOieher in the^rwf

.

6. l.and occupied.

The fea 6'erflow'd my ground.
And my beft Flanders marc was drown'd.
the place.
7. The floor or level of

CramiHe.

Can fierce palliont vex his breaft,

"Whileevcrygaleispeacc, and every PI ««
1. melody?
7'oGro'vel. -t. «. [^ra/d"^, Illandick, Hat

iSam.ii, 11.

•

It

Dagoa wa« fallen on his fact to the powtd.
t Sam. V. 4.

may perhaps come by

Matt.iv. 35.

A multitude fit on the ground.

gradual corruption from ground fell. ]
To lie prone; to aeep low on the

Some part of the m^nth of June, the water of this
many great
lake defcends under ground, through

ground.
The fteel-head paffage wrought.
ground
And through hislhoulder piert'dj wherewith to

Brovin.

holes at the bottom.

Dregs; lees; fxces; that which fettles
at the bottom of liquors.

8.

gored in his gulbmg wound.
He *erovfli«g
" fell, all

Set by them cyder, verjuice, four drink,

Sfenfer.

'

What fee'ft thou there ? king Henry's diadem,

fort,

9.

Chafman.

Now they lie
Milt<in.

CriWtlwz and ptoftrate on yon lakt of fire.
Upon thy belly grovilirg thou (halt go.

Oryaen.
ground.
to be without dignity or

to creep and grw.V on the
;

Dryden.
wWich are low
Several thoughts may be natural
^tOulcr.
Adai/oxU
and gmtling.

Danifh.]

;

grondt,
^

,

.

„

confidered as fuperficially
tillage,
extended, and therefore related to
any adion.
travel, habitation, or almoft
The main mafs of terrene matter is never
never diftinguilh
called the ground.

The

earth;

We

ground and
the terraqueous globe into
water j
water, but into earth, or land, and
under
again, we nevex.fay under earth but
Ifrael '(fell

go on dry gremd through the

fea.

Ex. iiv. 16.

Man to till the groBwrf
None was, and Itom the earth a dewy mift

Went up, andwater'd all xht ground.

Milton.

From the other hill

To their fir'd liation, all in bright array.

The cherubim defcended, on the ground
Gliding meteorous.
black bituminous gurge
Boils up from under ground.
And yet fo nimbly he would bound.

A

As if he fcorn'd to touch the gr<,und.

Milton.

Milton.

Hudibras.

The earth as diftinguilhed from air or

2.

water.

„

j

^

bead upon the ground.
jfenmidb.
vi 40.
There was a dew upon all the ground. Judg.
1 have made man and

.

Thcyfaim'd

their wings,

andfoaring th" airlub-

Milton

With clang defpis'd the grw«</.
Too late young Turnus the dclufion found ;
Far on the lea, ftill making from the

3.

Land

;

ground. Dryd.

country.

The water breaks its bounds.
Hudiirai.
And overflows the level groundi.
A. Region ; territory.
On heavenly grcund they ftood, and from the (hore

Miiion.
abyfs.
They viewM the vaft immcafurablc
With ihefe came they, who from the bord'ringflood
Of old Euphrates to the brook that parts
general names
Egypt from Syrian ground, had
Miilon'i Parad^/e Uft.
Baalim and Alhtaroth.

Ot

1

When folid bodies, fenfible to the fcelmg and
tranfparent grounds,
dark, arc placed on light and
the clouds and waters
as, for example, the heavens,
and void
and every other thing which is in motion,
to be more rough,
of different objeas ; they ought
they
which
with
that
diftinguilhablc, than
fubftance; that by
which the additional or accidental parts
arc fupported.

O'er his head
A well-wrought heaven of filk and gold was fprcad.
Azure the ground, the fun in gold Ihone bright. ^
Ccu'ley.

Indeed

it

was but

juft that

the fineft lines in

nature (hould be drawn upon the moft durable^/

ox^rf.

Pope.

Then, wrought into the foul, let virtues (hine,

Young.
The ground eternal, as the work divine.
11. 'Ihe plain fong ; the tune on which

defcants are raifed.
Get a prayer-book in your hand,
And ftand between two churchmen, g«od my lord ;
Shak.
defcant.
For on that ground I'll build a holy
invention
an
of
traces
;
firft
hint;
12. Firft
reft.
that which gives occafion to the

Though jealoufy of ftate th' invention found,
Yet love refin'd upon a foimer ground;
That way the tyrant had referv'd to fly,
nigh.
PurfuinR hate, now fcrv'd to bring two lovers
Dryden

knowledge.
13. The firft principles of
The concords will eafily be known, if the foreAccidence.
grounds be thoroughly beaten in. Pnf. to
read.
Here ftatefmen, or of them they which can
Donr.e.
May of their occupation find the grounds.
Tht grounds are already laid whereby that isun-

granted that God
nueftioh-ibly rcfolved; for having
co-operates molt
gives ruflF.cient grace, yet when he
Hammond.
effedTUally, he doth it not irrel.ftibly.

After
thoughts

evening

repafls,

'till

bed-time,

will be bell taken uf in the ealy
of religion, and the (lory of fcnpture.

14.

The

If it be natural, ought we not to conclude that
there is fome ground and reaibn for thefe fears, and
that nature hath not planted them in ufe to no pur-

^'''<";
Thus it appears, that fuits in law are not finful
there is
ufed,
if
in themfelves, but may lawfully be
no unlawfulnefs in Hit ground and way of manage-

pofe.

fundamental

caufe ;

KettlrtveH.

ment.

Upon that prince's death, although the grounds
manner
of our quarrel with France had received no
of addition, yet this lord thought fit to alter his
fentiments.

rl'^''-^'e
miraculous increafe of the profelTors of
was without any vifible grounds a»d

The
caufes,

their

g^-'wds

the

MiHon.
true

reafon; original principle.
Hedefired the fteward to tell l.im particularly
Sidney.
the ground and event of this accident.
Making happinel's tht ground of his unhappincfs,
forrow. iiJney.
and good news the argument of his
live
ufe and benefit of good laws all that

The

coinfori
under them may enjoy with delight and
original caufes from
albeit the grounds and firft
lUoker.
whence they have fpning be unknown.
Inthefolutionof the Sjbbatiaer's objeflion, my
method Ihall be, to ex*minc, in the firft place, the

and conuary

to all

human probability and
Alterbury.

appearance.

The field or place of aftion.

15.

Here was thy end decreed, when

thefe meti rofe (

And ev'n wiih theirs this aft thy death did bring,
Daniel.
Or haften'd at the leaft upon this ground.
16. The fpace occupied by an army as they
advance or retire.
fight
;

;

At length the left wing of the Arcadians bega«

DrydcnS Dufrefnoy.

The fundamental

10.

Sound judgement is the grjund of writing well.
Rofctmmon.
Love once given from her, and plac'd in you.
Would leave no ground 1 ever would be true. Oryd.
It is not eafy to imagine how any fuch tradition
could arife fo early, and fpread fo univerfally, if
IVilkint.
there were not a real ground for it.

Cliriftianity,

to lay his jr<i««rfi with darkfoine

arc cncompafled-

Kiiirrnfling fenfe will Ihew my pafllon lels.

1.

and the painter

and more

elevation.
can exprefs
I muft difdaim whate'er he

GROUND. »./. [snunb, Saxon

firft

Wc lee the limner to begin with a rude draught,

j

:

mean
i. To be

The

ftratum of paint upon which

the figures are afterwards painted.

Milion.
painters ought to
Let us then conclude that all
not to do it, is to
require this part of excellence
tis
courage, and not dare to ihew ihemfclves :

want

Mortimer.

grounds of
ftopping gangrenes, from the ufe of the
oatmeal.
ftrong beer, mixed up with bread or
Sharp's Surgery.

Oke maft

fwine on earth, in fowled
Crovelim\i^t
"

or grounds.

Some infift upon having had particular fuccefs in

world !
Inchas'd with all the honours of the
thy face.
If fo, gaze on, and gnvtl on
l>bak,Jp.
fame.
Until thy head be circled with the
and beech, and Cornell fruit they cale,

Thou could'ft not have difcem'd
\
"
Fraud in the ferpenl, fpeakiiig as he fpake,
^
No ground of enmity between us known. Milton.
Nor did either of them ever think fit to make anyparticular relation of the grounds of their proceedings, or the caufes of their n-.ifadvcntures. Clarendon.

Milim.

Wherefore (hould 1 fmile thee to the ground*

r.V°A'J"7:

on the face.

main pounds and principlei upon which he buildeih.

5. Eftatc; poffefllon.
Uncafy ftill within thefe narrow bounds.
next defign is on thy neighbours grounds :

I

SB*ktfftar.'i Macbetb.

I f,,, . movinggravf.

G R O

R O

Sidney.

to \o(t ground.

Hcartlefsthcy fought, and quit ed loon theirfroKn/,
Whilrt our's with eafy viflory were crown'd. Dryd.
the latter end of the day,
He has loft ground
by purfuing his point too far, like the prince of
the battle of Seneffe. Dryd. Fables, Pre/.

H

Conde at

The intervening fpace between the flyet

17.

and purfuer.
Ev'ning mift,
Ris'n from a river, oe'r the marifti glides.
And gathers ground faft at the labourer's heels.
Milton's Paradife Lojl.
Homeward returning.
Superiors think it a detraction from their merit
to fee another get ^rsirW upon them, and overtake
Addifon's Spectator.
them in the purfuiis of glory.
Even whilll we fpeak our conqueror comes on,

And gathers ^roK/rJ upon us every moment. Addifon.
The ftate in which one is with refpeft

18.

to opponents or competitors.

Had 'If thou fway'd as kings Ihould do.
Giving no ground unto the houfc of York,
Shaktff. Henry VI.
They never then had fprung.
If they get ground and 'vantage of the king,
Then join you with them like a rib of fteel.

To make them fttongcr.

Shake/pear's Henry IV.

He will Hand his ground againll all the attacki
Aturiury.

that can be made upon his probity.

Whatever ground we may have gotten upon our
enemies, we have gotten none upon our vices, the
lubducd
woilf enemies of the two; but are even
and led captive by the one,
glorioully over the others.

iQ.

while we triumph fo
Atterbury.

State of progrefs orreceflion.
have

I

known

lb

many

great

examples of thii

and heard of its being fo familiar in Auftria,
ground in
that I wonder it has gained no more
remple.
other places.
The fquirrel is fo perpetually turning the wheel in
with
herca§e: llie runs apace, and wearies heifelf
and gets no groxW. DryJtn.
her continual motion
cure,

:

10.

'1

he foil to fet a thing off.

Like bright metal on a fullen ground.

My reformation glittering o'er my tault.
Shall ftiew more goodly, and aitraS more -yes.

Than that which bath 00 foil to let it off.
Shake/peart.

Ground, t. ». [from thcnoun.]
I. To fix on the ground.

To

2

To

G Rp
To found,

2.

as

upon caufe,

or

reafon,

principle.

Wifdom grounJetb her laws upon an infallibit
Iljoifr.

rule of comparifon.

The church of Englr-d, walking in the good and,
old way of the orlhodotal primitive Ulhttifgrmnje:/}
the religious obfervation of tlie Lord's-day, and of
other Chriftian holidays, upon the natural equity,

and not upon the letter of the fourth commandment.
It may fent us to grounJ conjeflures more approaching to the truth than wt ha?e hitherto met
£j>/f.
with.
If your own adions on your will you gfaunJ,
Drydtn.
Mine Ikall hereafter knov/ no other hound.
Sime emir.ent fpirit, kavi.ig fignjlued his valour,
becomes to have wfluence on the people, to crow
their leader in warlike expediCi'iuj; and thij is
grounded upon thcpjincipie's of nature and common
reafon, which, where prudence and courage are
ie(]uired, ra'.her incite us to fly to a fmgle petfon

G R O

G R O

Gro'und-plot. fi. /.
1. The ground on which any building is

Gro'undwork, n.f. [ground mi^'w^rl.']
I. The ground; the firll ftratum
the firft

than a multitude.
_

3,

_

'I'o fettie in firft principles

or ruditnenta

of knowledge.
Being rooted and gr-.unJeJ in bve. Epb. iii. n.
The pretcriteand part. paff. of

Ground.
grind.

find any
Sidney.
ground-plot fquare five hives of bees contains ;
Emblems of induttry and virtuous gains.
Hartc.

2. The ichnography of a building
Gro'und-rent. n. /. Rent paid

T)it groundiuork is of flats.

A

foot in front, and thirty-three five feventlis
deep, woiild bring in nground-renf of five pounds.
Arhutbnot on Caitn,
The fite was neither granted him, nor giv'n ;
*Twas nature's, and the ground^rent ^ue to He.tv'n,

the ground, or near

the ground.

ti.

him

befeechcJ

meditate in a
grouad-rrom i for ihat otlierwifc it would be impof^
tabic for anartilt of any other kind to live near him.
hereafter

to

a tree.

A lance of tough grcund-ajh the Trojan threw.

'

;

Drydtn'i Mn.

Some cut the young afhes off about an inch aio^e
the ground, which caulcs ihem to make very large
which they call ground-ajh.
Morlimtr's Hujhindry.

[from ground and
tail.]
A bnit made of barley or malt
boiled; which, being thrown into the
place where you defign to anslc, finks to
the bottom, and draws the filn to it.

Gro'undbait.

n. J.

Take tht d:pih of the jlace where you mean after
to Cifl yoMT gmanj-ialr, and to hlh.

ffjllon't AitgliT.

miracles

groundleji, and to

.is

The party who diftinguiih themfelvcs by their zeal

Alehoof, or tunhoof.

Alehoof or ground ivy is, in my opinion, of the
ir.oll excellent ufe and virtue of any plants among
Ttmpt!.

Ground-OaK. »./. [jroiyW and oak.\
underwoods, it woiili

fpoil

[from ^reaWAy/.]
Without reafon; without caufe; without
adj.

jutl reafon.
Diveti perfons have produced the like by fpirit of
vitriol, or juice of lemons; but have gioundtrftly
afcribed the cfieA to fome peculiar quality of Ih.ile
two liquors.
Boyle on Colours.

Gxo'undlessness. »./. [from ^ro«W/^i.]

led

caufe one hoop
gr'yunJ-oai, would cutlall fix of the beit a(h.

a

A plant.

Tt 1101fun.
A
n.f. [from ground.]
fifh which keeps at the bottom of the
water: hence one of the low vulgar.

Gro'undlino.

tags, to Iplit the ears of the gcoundlings,

fcmbliog that ot refin; when. e its name grcuidfine.
It grows on dry anl barren hillr, and in
HiU,
fom: places on the diich banks by road fides,

Cro'unu-plate. »./. [In architefture.J
The outermoft pieces of timber lying on

•

folidly ;

not

profit

room.

perhaps from y^//;?, Latin.]

and fometitncs the trimmers for
girders
the flair-cafe and chimney-way, and the

rabbetled on its outlide about half an inch into
the frame ; and all tlicfc rabbets, but that on the

binding joift.

groiindfil,

are grooved fquare; but the rabbet on
the ground/el is levelled downwards, that rain or

fnow may the frcelier fall ofl^.

plant.

[ftnecio,

Mtixon.

Latin.J

A

[Agriomeium,

Latin.]

GROW,

paff.

gro^vti,

qj,

n.

prater,

greiu;

part,

[jpopan, Saxon ; gnj(n,

Dutch.]
1.

'I'o

vegetate ; to have vegetable motion

to incrcdfe by vegetation.
It is not the g/u^iV/g of fruit that nourifheth man;
but it is thy word which prcferveth them,

tfifd. xvi. 16.

Afcham.

Gro'undsel. n.f.

A kind of wild apple.

5.

He caufeth the grafs to gri,-iu for the cattle,, and

Gro'undsel. n.f. [jpund and j-ile, the
7 he timber or railed pavement next the

;

Dryden,

himlelf, in ufing by epitome 10 diaw other
for his own memory fake, into Ihorier

ground.
The window-frame hath every one of its lighs

Vol. I.

Sweet honey fome coiidenfe, fome purge the grout

The reft, in cells apart, the licjuid neiSarlhout.

mens works,

thefe alfo are mortifes made to receive the
tcnnons of the joifts, the fumraer and

Harrii.

King.

That which purges off.

z.

fuper/icially.

bafis, Saxon,

lu the orthographical fchemes there (hould be a
true delineation) if it be a timber-building, of tie
fevs^l fzes of the ground flatt\, brcall Tummers,*
Mortimer,
atid be^os.

King Hardicnute, 'midft Danes and Saxoni flout,
Carous'd in nut-brown ale, and din'd on grout i
Which difli its priliine honour ftill retains.
And when each prince is crown 'd in fplcndour reigns.

Gro'undly. a//i/. [Uom [ground.] Upon
Not in ufe.
A rmn, grouad/y learned jlre.idy,.miy take much

Swiji.

In Scotland

Coarfe meal ; pollard.

I .

To

or near the ground, and framed into one
another with inortifes and tcnnons.
In

;

Tor better game, and look for ^rwy^.

Grout, n.f, [jnuT, Saxon.]
they call h groats.

Sbiike/pejre's thmler.

principles;
plant has a very fingular fmell, re-

cock.
Th« 'fijuires in fcom will fly the houfe

notorious fallhootl andgroaW.V^^r/iof his calumny.

M'^ri.

Gro UND-riNL. ». /. \cham<sfiiji, Latin.

Grouse, n.f. A kind of fowl; a heath-

the reader fhould hsvc dlfcovered the

It offends me to the foul, to hear a roburtcous
perriwig.paied fellow tear a paflinn to tatters, to very

mad* of th< young ihools of

of diScrent objeifts, preferving ftiU the juftice and
conformity of ftyle aiid colouring.
Prior.

He durft not cite the words either of my book or

the cooper's trade for

in ufe

The difficulty iles in drawing and difpoling, or
as the painters term it, in grouping fuch a multitude

Freeholder.

Gro'undlesslv.

Hanker,

more

You Ihould try your graving tools

On this odious group of fools.
Swift,
To Group, i'. a, [groupfer, French.] 'lo
put into a crowd; to huddle together.

then;, of being averfe to our national woriliip.

fr-r

virere

making of hoop-, eilher'of hafel or alb; bi-

The w;;o'.e

fhould be careful to

difover fuch a reverence for religion, as may (hew
how groundkfi that reproach is which it caft upon

fcrmous,

planring of nak^

the high
church makes to
rejed her vain and

Atierbury,

for the prelent eftablilhment,

The lower (lory of a'houfe.
Gro'und-IVY. ». /. \hed(ra_ lerrejtris,

us.

Trior.

Roman

which the

Want of juft reafon.

the

Void

We have great reafon to look upon
pretcnfions

Ground vloor. ».y. \grnund &nAfl'jor.^

If the

In a piiSure, befides the principal figures which
compofc it, and are placed in the midft of it, there
are lefs groups or knots of figures difpofed at proper
diilances, which are parts of the piece, and feem
to carry on the fame delign in a more inferior manner.
Dryden's Dufieftioy.
I cannot doubt but the poet had here in view the
pifture of Zetus, In the famous group of figures
which Tcprefents the two brothers binding Dirce to
the horns of a mad bull.
Addifon,

wanting ground.

Do that dear foolilli bofom tear.

Acrowd;

a number thronged together.

Glanville,

of reafon

Dryden.

French; grsppo,
aclufter; ahurdJe;

n.f. [grouppe,

Italian.]

gr!iu?ided.\

fabulous accounts of them.

Rough in the lind, and knotted ai it grew.

Latin.]

ing the groundii.ork of his inflruaion.

Group,

Tal/fr.

Gro'undedly. adv. [from
Upon finn principles.

original reafon.

fame, or through vanity. Spe.tfer's State of Irdind,
The morals is the firft bulinefs of the poet, as be-

level with the ground.
1

Milton.

_

Firft principle;

The ground-work thereof is nevcrihelefs true ani
certain, however they through ignorance difguife the

A room on the

f.

But when vain doubt and grounilefs fear

»./- A fapiin of a(h taken
from the ground ; not a branch cut from

-

obedience.

3.

liarte.

Gro'ukd-room.

Dtyden's Fables.

part of an undertaking ;

the
fundamentals.
The main (kill and grottndivork will be to temper
them fuch leilures and explanations, upon every
opportunity, as may lead and draw them in willing

on another man's

privilege of building

The firft

2.

ground.

Huditiras.

Gro'und-ash.

ftrai^ht ifcoois,

A way there is in heav'n's citpanded plain.
Which, when the ikies are clear, is feen below,
And mortals by the name of milky know;

for the

Ground is much sfcd in compofition for Gto'vuDLtss. adj. [horn ground.]
that which is next

is additional.

He hath given the firt hint of fpeaking groundrd/y, and to the purpofe, upon this fubje^.

How dull and rugged, ere 'tis ground
Aoi foiifh'd, looks a diamond.

part of the whole ; that to which the reft

fi^

,

i'u/./r.

;

placed.
Wretched Gynecia, where can'ft thou
final] ground-pht for hope to dwell upon ?

herb for the fervicc of man.
2.

.

To W produced by vegetation.

/'/, civ'.' 14,

In this country groivelh abundance of that wood,
.which fincc is brought into Europe to die ted colours.
Attet.
A bag, lYiHgroivitb in the fields, at the firfl is
h.-ird like a tennis-ball, and white; and after groweth
of a mufliroom-co'our) and full of light dufl.
Bacon^s Natural Hl^ory,
But fay, where grcrus the tree ? from hence how
'
far
Milton,
In colder regions men compnfe
Foifon with an, but here U^cotff/,
ffal/er
5

X

Tboft

Tkaft taw'ri of oak o'« fertile pl»ini might go,

To be changed from one ftate

I.

And viftt mountainj where they ooce did grow-

To (hoot in any particular form.
Children, like tender olicfs, tike the bow;

And »» they tu.l ix tiltuoa'd, iivityt grow.
Oryden't Jxv.

To increafe in ftature.

4.

Sbai.ff. Richard HI,
The poor man had nothing, fave one little eweJamb, which he had bought and rear'd up; and
itrrtv) up togedier with him and with his children.

a Sam. xii. J-

To come to manhood from infancy:
commonly followed by up.
Now the prince groveiB up faft to be 1 man,

aod is of a fwectand excellent difpofiton.
Bacon' i Advice to Villiers.
The main thing to be confidered, in every adlion
is
of a child, is how it will become him when he
is
bigger, and whither it will lead him when he
Locke.
gra-wn upWe arc brought into the world children, ignorant
and impotent; and we grow up in vanity and folly.

a

They will feem not (tuck into him, but grnuing
Drydttt's Mn. Dedication.

To increafe in bulk

;

to become greater,

after full

1.

Dryden.

The nymph grew pale, and in a mortal fright.
Dryden.
Spent with the labour of fo long a Bight.
Patient of commaiid
In time he gre^v\ and growing us'd to hand.
He waited at his mailer's board for food. Dryden.
We m..- trade and be bufy, and grow poor by it
Locke.
unlels we regulate our expences.
You will grow a thing contemptible, unlefs you
can fupply the lofs of beauty with more durable
Swift.
qualities.
Delos, by being reckoned a facred place, grew to
be a free port, where nations warring traded, as in a
Ariutlnct.
neutral country.
By degrees the vain, deluded elf,
Harte.
Gre * out of humour with his former felf.

continue at a ftay

whence fo precious a benefit hilhgrcrjin ?

age degenerated

from primitive

»ietv. they advanced in nice enquiries.

Decay of Pietj.

'

To improve; to make progrefs.
He then difpenfed his beft of legacies, his blef-

fings; moll paflionalelytxhorting the young giow/wr

Nature, as \x.gr<fwt again towards earth,
II faOiioo'd for the journey dull and heavy.

14.

Ads, V. 24.
to fuch

15.

Bacon.
imputed to his forefight.
But when 10 ripen'd manhood he iaWgroiu,
Drydtn.
The greedy failor Ihall the feas forego.

To come by degrees;

to

reach

more fltilful in the ordering of their battles.
Bacon*i Effays.
Verfe, or the other harmony of profe, I have fo

11.

16.

which

may

praflice

gratving up,

The ftag, now confcious of his fa'.al growth.

To foi^e dark covert his retreat had m.ide. Denham.
Though an animal

work urouble to the next governour, will not attempt

arrives at his full

To fwell: a fea term.

growth at

a certain age, perhap-

it never comes to its full bulk
the lall period of life.
Arbu'.hnot on Aliments.
If parents (hould be d^ily calling upon Cod in a

'till

altering

and extending

their inteicelfioiis, as the (late and growth of their

childien required, fuch devotion would have a mighty
influence upon tiie leil of tlieir lives.
Law.

Improvement

5.

;

advancement.

David's religious mind to confider the
groti-th of his own eftatc and dignity, the affairs of
religion continuing (till in the former manner.
Hooker,
It gricveii

would many

proceffion or paflage from one ftate to

an-

Gro'wtheaij. 7

Gro'wtnol.

J

?.-.

/.

[from gn/s or great

tetti/; capita,

Akindof fifli.
2. An idle lazy fellow.

Latin.]
Ainfujorth,

1.

Obfolete.
Though flceping one hour refrelheth his fong.

Yet trufl not Hob growtbead for lleeping too long.
TuJIer.

other. It is always change, but not always
increafe; for a thing may ^rmu lefs, as

To dig up; to deftroy
dig, Gothick.]
by digging ; to root out ot the grout>d
to eradicate by throwing up out of tlip

well as groiu greater.

foil.

Gro'wer. w.y; [fromgivw.] An increafer.
grow to a great bignel's, being the quickcll
Mortimer.
grc^trr of any kind of elm.
It will

To Grow I,.
1.

Rogtrs.

nigh,

and troublous

4. Increafe of ftatu re; advance to maturity.
I'hey fay my Ion of York
Has almort overla'cn him in hii growth. Sbakefp.

17. The general idea given by this word is To GRUB. 'V. a. [graiait, preter. groi, to

rellraints of law and

Some feeing the end of their government

fingers

Mariners are ufed to the tumbling and rolling of
(hips from fide to fide, when the fea is never fo little
Raleigh.
grown.

Dryden.

To come forward; to gather ground.

the native

fubjed, may go a great way in preventing the
growlio! this difeafe, where it is but new.

To adhere; to ftick together.

In burnings and fcaldings the

The trefpaffes of people are grottn up to heaven,
and their fins are got beyond all

ffal/er.

The trade of a countiy arifes frotn

growthi of the foil or foas.
Temple,
I had thought,
for ilie honour of our nation,
that the knight's tale was of Englilh growth, and
Chaucer's own
Dryden,
3. Increafe in number, bulk, or frequency.
What 1 have tried, or thought, or heard upon this

folemn deliberate manner,

times grotv together : the chin would gro'w to the
breall, and the arms to the (ides, were they not
IVifonan's Suigery.
hindered.

toog ftudied and praftifed, that they are grafuin into

authority.

And all that's rare, at tribute from the wavet.

To accrue; to be forthcoming.

Honour and policy, like unfevcr'J friends,
Sbakefp. Coriohnus.
war do grow together.
The frog's mouth grows up, and he continues fo
Walton.
without
eating.
for at lead fix months

any

/
ftate gradually.
After they grevi to reft upon number, rather competent than valt, they grew to advanuges of place,
cunning diverfons, and the like ; and they grpui

a habit, and bccom: familiar to me.

Miltotr:

1' th'

an

height of reputation for cunning and policy, that
every accident and event tliat went well was laid and

Atiertntry.

thing produced

Our Mttle world, the image of the great.
Of her own groivtb hath all that nature craves.

Ev'n juft the fum that I do owe to you.
Sbakefp.
Is gro-wiiig to mt by Antipholis.

Shai.

They doubted whereunto this would grvw.

produdion ;

aft of producing.
Forbidding every bteak unkindly fog
To touch the pivfperQus growth of this tall wood.

longing to the militant, the fecond to the triumphant
Piarfon.
church.
The want of trade in Ireland proceeds from the
want of people; and this is not grown from any
ill qualities of the climate or air, but chiefly from fo
Temple.
many wars.

To advance to any ftate.

10.

diftinftion of the

Hence' ^rctui that necefTary

teuhopes of the family.
_
As \itgrevi forward in years he was trained up to
learning, under one Pronapides, who taught the
Pope.
Pelafgick letter invented by Linus.

The king, by this time, was grcwn

Pfodtift ;

_

Cmv.' in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord
» Pft- iii. 18.
and Saviour lefus Chrift.

9.

that reafon of the tonsil continuance.

2.

Temple.

faints on earth and the faints in heaven; the firft be-'

Denham.
And^ru^v upon us.
Divifions grvw upon us, by negleft of praatick
'

why

:

Vegetation; vegetable life; increafe of
vegetation.
Deep in the palace of long grf^vtb there (lood
A laurel's trunk of vulnerable wcoJ. Dtyden's jSn.
Thofc trees thai have the (lowed growth, are, for

(hould damage rrrm; to the hurt of the kinj.

Bacon's Natural Hijlory

8.

Hooker.

Ex. iv. 21.

Then their numbers fwell,

as every

To proceed as from a caufe or reafon.
What will grow out of fuch errours as are malked

under the cloak of divine authority, impolfible it is
that ever the wit of man fhould imagine, 'till time
Hooker.
have brought forth the fruits of them.
Shall we fet light by that cuftom of rciding, from

as for nails xhtygrow continually.

(Julies :

Abbot.

Take heed now that ye fail not to do this

growth,

faw lately a pair of China (ho«, which I was
a' grown woman, that would force
have been big enough for one of oar little girls.
Locke.
n, /. [from gro'wn.'\
I

told were for

Growth,

or more numerous.
Bones,

Arrived at full growth or ftaiure.

3.

And man grows wild in nature's oomaaon held.

or as

foil,

branches from the main trunk.
out of him.

Sbakrfpiare.
dread ot that

Hence, hence, and to fome barbarous climate fly,
W'hich only brutes in human form does yield.

13.

7.

if the

enemy were taken away, the Romans would grow

Wal^e.

To iffae as plants from

6.

left,

either to idlenefs or civil diffcnfion.

long wiih all my heart to fee the prince ;
Ijw him,
I hope be n muchFrewa 6nce Uft I
'^
I

c.

Scipio Nafica feared

T went by the field of the (lotblul, and by the
vineyard of the man void of unJerllanding; and
lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and octiies
had covered the lace thereof.
Provet Bt,

to ano-

ther ; to become cither better or worfe
to turn.
A good man's fortune maygroTO oijt at heels.

frailer.

t.

G R U

G R O

G R O

2.

1;.

A foolifli heir caufed all the bulhes and hedgn
about his vineyard to be grubbed up.
L'Efirange.
Foreil land.
From whence the furly ploughman ^ruis the wood,

n. [grel/eu, Flemifh.]

To fnarl or murmur like an angry cur.

Dryden*

The grubbing up of woods and trees may be very

They roam amid' the fury of their heart.
Tbomfon's Spring.
And growl their horrid loves.
Dogs in this country are of the fixe of common
never
bark,
but^rcW when
and
nature
maftiffs,
by

thick woods, which not only Vii^gil
but Homer mentions, they are mod of them grubbed

they arc provoked.

up, fince the promontory has

Ellis*

To murmur; to grumble.
Othello, neighbours

— how he would roar about

a foolifh handkerchief !

manfully.

and then he would growl fo
Cay,

needful, upon the account of their unthriftinefs.

Mortimer.

As for the

inhabited.

been cultivated and

Addifon on Italy,

Grub. »./. [from gritiiittg, or mining.]
I, A fmall worm that eats noles in bodies.
There is a difference between a grub and a butter*
and yet your butterfly was a grub. Sbakefpeare,

Spenfer on U eland.
It was now the beginning of Oilober, and Winter
with terrible
great
rain,
began to grov faft on:
thunder and liS^litning, and mighty tcmpefts, then

G R ow N

Advanced in growth,
Covered or filled by the growth of any ^

A moving mafs at tird, and (hort of thighs

KnolUs.

thing.

The giiibt proceed to bc«s wiUi pointed itijtgs. D^d.

rcdrefs.

ieU abundantly.

I.

z.

.

The participle pafEve of grow,

fly,

New creatures rife,
'Till (hooting out with legs, and imp'd

with wings.

G R U
The grui
Oft unoblerv'd, invades the vital core;
Pernicious tenant
and her lecret cave
Enlarges hourly, preying on the pulp
Pii.'ift.
;

a dwarf.

3.

In con-

be condemned.

4.

the whole carcaTe of an ox, yet never tugged with
him,
Caretv.

:

MyDolabella,.
Haft thou not ftiU (omi grujgi»gj of tdy fever ?

Originally the name
near Moorfields in London,
much inhabited by writers of fmall liifto-

Old quarrel

I .

;

inveterate

Still grumbles that

Many countries about her were full of wars, which
for old grudgei

to Corinth,

conuludc there.

The firft pait, though calculated only for the m:ridian oi gruifirret, was yet taken notice of by the
betierfort.
Arbiilhmi.

From mcicnt grudge break to new mutiny.
Where civil blood makes civil harid^ unclean.

6.-

Ainfiwrih.

Like harpies they could fcent a plenteous boiid

Thefe clamours withdifdain he heard.
Much gradg'd the fra>le, but more the rob'd re-.i-3rd.
Dryden,
Do not, ai fome men, tud upon the'ttft,.and taftc
of the fedimcnts of a grudging uncommunicative

Let me

•ittth.

X leill a funeral marriage crave.

Hot grudge my cold embraces in the grave.

«

;

They knew
ca-jfc

the

idolatry

force

of that dreadful curfe,

Qf.\i'fY\,-i. adv.

maketh fubjeft ; nor is there
fuftaining the Time fhoukl

grudge ^.^ coT.pIj'ii of injurtice.

"

^
tontei/

Tidcnce

1

i>

Hooker.
or repine at our portion, but are
cirtumftances which the pronil made to be our lot.

2. To be unwillmg

;

to be reluaant.

Grum. adj.

from grnmble.'\
Sour; furly
ftvere.
A low word.
Nic looked four and grum, iwid wouU not open his

m his Majefty'i fliips, w if it were to be (laves

w the gaJlie*.

Rugged-

Rafeigh.
•

mo""'-

Afljmh>tJi.

was black, grumous, the
the ferum faArbuthnot,

the blood.

IViJanAn^s Surgery,

urtlefs

^ilton intended to preferve the
the

Saxon SJiunb.]
The groundfil ;
lower part of the building.
Next came one

Whomoum'd in earneft, when the captive arle
Maim'd his brute image, head and hands lopp'd off
In his own temple, on the grunfel ti%e:.
Where he fell flat, and (ham'd his worthippers.
Milton.
|

ro GRUNT.

\ -v.n. [grunnio, Latin.]

7)GRU'NVLE.J

To 'murmur like a
hog.
And neigh, and bark, mi grunt, and roar and burn,

Like hotii:, hound, hog, hear, lire, at every turn.

[contrafted
;

let

.

'

nefs of mien ; harfhnefsof look or voice.

Thick:

Gru'nsel; ». /, [More ufu:illy ^,o(,»^y,

Harfliiyj

Dryden.

Gru'ffness. n.f. \^xoxn grnff.^

Sullenly

_

of

All Iheatb'd in arms, -Xi'^grujly look 'ifthe god.

Many limes they go with as great grudging to
lerve

\Uom gritff'],

"
ruggedly; roughly.
The form of Mars high^on a chariot (loo^,

why the guilty

^lincj.

[from ^wct.]

tion ofSie fetum, 07 grumoujnrfs o[

Foul bawling infamy and bold debate,
GruffiMcoatint, through igirorance jniiled. Carli.
The appellation of honour was fuch an one the
gruj", (uch an one the ftocky.
Addifon.

Te Grudce. t;. n.
1. To murmur
to repine.
whereunto

Sour

'"

Jru'moiJsness. ff. f. ['from grumout.]
Thickncfs ofa coagulated liquour.
The caufc may be rcti-rrcd cither 10 the coagula-

afpeft; harlh of mariners.
Around the fiend'in hideous order, fat

Tiiey liavc grudged thofe coniiibutions, which
have fet oor country
the head of all the govern.
menu of Europe.
Add!Jon.

/7i/f.

The blood, whi:n

Arbuihnot.

Dutch.]

white of an egg, or clotted

red part wiih^ut a due Mnliftence,
!me, ab J of a j ellowilh green.

:

.

GRUFF, adj. [^nff,

Dry J.

Sh.ikefp.

GRUME. »./. [grumeait, French; grumus,
Lirthi.]
A thick vifcid conftftence ofa

clotted.

Was ever Tartar fierce or ctucl

nglyr

have ferv'd

GRT/'KroUS; <ulj. [from
grume.]

Upon the ftrcogth of water gruel f
Prior.
Cruel miiz of grain, broths, malt d.'int not much
hopped, poirei-drinks,^ and in general whatner re-

havr often heard the Prefbyterians fay they jid
not grudge us our employments,
Houlh.
I

1

Without or grudge or grumbling!.

raorofely.

French.]

Finger ol hijthHlrangl'd bnW,
D;tch-de'livei"d by a drib';
Make the^iW thick and (l;ib. y-j^'-.rj],. i,;.:Qu,tr:.

that it takes oi ihc furface ofihe earth, yet we i>.all
propofe this loo, as a coafpicuoul mark and character of the wifdom of God.
Hentley.

A

murmuring through difcontent; agrudge.

Gru'mi.y.

Fbod made by boiling oatmeal in water";
any kind of mixtuVc inade by boiling
ingredieiits in water.'

Szvift.

Gru'mbling. n. /. [from grumble.]

like cold blocid.

.

Gnu 'el., n. y. [grueau, grudtc,

Spiaittf,r.

be

:

fluid : as the
;

,

Let us confidcrlhe inexliaufled trcafures of the
ocean j and though tome hivt grudged the great ITiare

half.pcnce are good Tiiilf-pence, and I will
by it if I made them of filver, it would

the fame thing to the grumbler.

Then to be fure they never t'ail'd their lord ;
The reft was form, and bate allenjante paid j
Then drank and ear, md grudging/y obey'J bryd.

Drydtrt,

The
ftaild

willingly; malignantly; reluctantly.

He creeps, he walks ; and, jfluing into man,
Crudgt! their life from whence hi* own began.

a difcon-

terited man.

Gru'dgingly. adv. [from grudge.'] Un-

Then helplefs in his mother's lap is laid !

One

.

Sviift.

Some little commotion, or forerunner of
a difeafe.

Thomfon's ly'mter.

Gr u'mbl K R a. /. [from grumble.]
that ervrables; a murmurer
j

Wuhgraa'^f prefcrr'd me.
Benjon/cn.
4. Envy ; odium ; invidious cenfure.
5. Remorfe of confcience.
Ainjkvorth.

Sb«i.

Llkcartorm
I

Anger ; ill-will.

3. UnvV'ili'ingnefs to benefit.
Thofe to whom, you have

HiJiuy.

To make a hoarfe rattle.

Vapours foul
Dath on the mountains brow and (hake the woods

Tale.

The gOd of vin, to iTiew Kit grudge,
Glapt atVs eats upon the judge.

'Tis not in thee

Dryd.

,

That grumbling wave below.

.

And mutually betjueath'J from fire to fon.

Whatmeaiisthis baniQiingme from yourcounfels ?

with fullen pleafure, grumbles o'er hit

.

;

2.

night,

That gathers black upon the frowning (ky,
And grumbles in the wind. Rdwe's Royal Convert.

:

Do you love your forrow fo well, js to grudge me

-.villi

n

;\

Thou grmr.hling, thunder join thy voice. Motiek*.

SHakiffeitre,

Beep fefterM hate:
A grudge in both, time out of mind, begun,

Prior.

Yet, pinch'd with raging hunger, fcoursaway

- P"=y3.

Let me go in to fee the generals
There is fome grudge between 'cm 'tis not meet
They be alone.
Sbahfpeare': Julius Cafar

Cay.

he has no more.

tognarl.

;

The lion, though he fees the toils are fet,
At

Two houlholjs, both alike in dignity.

ding to Skinner, which in French is to
grind or eat.
In this fenfc we fiiy of one
who rcfenrs any thing fecretly he cheivt it.
Gmvgnach, in Welfh is to murmur ; to
grumble.
Gnmigh, in Scotland, denotes
a grumbling morofe countenance.]
I ,
To envy ; to fee any advantage of another with difcontent.

To give or take un

To growl

Hunts in the face of danger all the day

were thought ftill would
Sidney.

Xauf l3-«j(>i f/.tr'aii)iU, fjuir' uXyt» TMf*
ATTTxTiaii riof iJU; iKolfoi/fXt-

7o GRUDGE, -v. a. ffrom grugir, accor-

2.

2.

malevoleVice ;

fullen malice.

whence any mean production is called
gridftreet.

To grudge my plealures, to cut off my train.
He ftrug^les into birth, and cries for aid ;

L'Avare, not ufing half his ftore.

Grudge. »./. [from the verb.]

and temporary poems

I'd fooner ballads write, and gruhjlnet lays.

L'EJirange.

Dry den.

;

difpolition.

Co-U'lcy,

Suitors, all but one, will depart
grumbling, becaule they mifs of what they think
their due.
South.
..
.
D
Providence has allotted man a competency a 11
beyond it is fuperfluous ; and there will be grumb
ling without end, if we reckon that
we want fl^is.
becaufe we have it not.

fieve.

Gnu'BSTREiT. n.f.

part of it ?

and thou art as full of envy at his
greatnefs at
Cerberus is at Proferpina's beauty.
Sbake/p
Fh' accur'ft PhiliHian ftandson
th'otherfide,
Orawi//,.^ aloud, and fmiles 'twixt rage
and pride.

gru^eons being the part of com that remains after the fine meal has paffed the

DrjJtr.

Shaiefp.

.

,,

Tha^grumblejl and raileft every hour on Achil-

les,

fcnfe be not rather ^j*fM»/, or remains
;

:

Blind men fay white I'eels fmoolh, and black feels
rough ;
Thou hart a rugged ikin ; I do not like thee.

ries, diftionaiies,

fi.

A low word.

E'en in the moft fmcere advice he gave.

.itomgrub.'\
To feel in the dark.
Thou haft a colour;

ofa ftreet

7*». V. 9.

To with in fecret.

*

To murmurwith difcontent.

A bridegroom,
A grumbling groom, and that tlie girl fhall find.

He had a grudging dill to be 3 knave.
Drydtn.
5. To give or have any uneafy remains.
I know not whether the word in this

Tt Gru'bble. f. n. [grubekn, German
Now let me rowl and grtibble thee

To be envious.
Grudge not one againft another, brethren, left ye

tempt.
John Romane, a fhort clowailh grui, would bear

*

Dutch.]
I.

D'yd. Failet.

Ceafelefs.

A (hort thick mar

G R U
To GRITMBLE. v. n. gmmmelen, grimmtK

Nor gratify whate'er the great dcfire,
Uor grudging give what publick needs require.

!

t.

G R U
You fteer tetwixt the country and the court,

Skikefp.

Lament, yc fwine in gruntling. fpend your grid
Foryou, like me, hjve loft your Ible relief.
Gay.
!

Thy briiided boars may {lumber undifmay'd ;
Or grunt fecutc beneath lltf cbcfuut Oude, Tichl.
The
S Z.S

•

QUA
The feolding quean to louder notes doih rifei

To her full pipes the grwrling hog repliei

To provide againft objeftions.

4.

m

S-u,!/i.

Grcnt. »./. [from the verb.]

Thcnoife

To adorn with lifts, laces, or ornamen-

5.

Swine's foawts, fwipe's bodies, toolc they, briftles,

Chapman,

Ran cow and calf, and family of hogs.
In panicle honour of purfuing dogs
Wiih many a deadly grunt, and doleful fqueak,
'
toor fwine, as if their pretty hearts would break.
Dryd.

Drjd.Mn.

See a fellow
Id a long motley, guarded with yellow.

Sbaie^.

To be in a ftatc of

caution or defence.

ai/ier.

penny.

To guard a|ainft fuch miftakes, it is neceflary to

tonick.]

A man, or body of men, whofe bufinefs
to watch by way of defence or prevention.
The guard bare them, and brought khem bick
is

n.

[corrupted for the

To envy
fake of rhyme from grudgeJl
to repine ; to be difcontented. Notufed.
The poor at the enclofure doth grutcb,

Becaufc of abufes that fall,
l^rt fome men Ihould.have but too much.
Tufer'tjtujh.
And fome again nothing at all.
But what we're born for we muft bear,

into the guard chamber.

Grutcm. «./. [from the verb.J

Malic< j

ill-will.
In it he melted leaden bullets,
"To (hoot >t foes, and fomctimes pullets
To whom he bore fo fell agiafcA,
He ne'er gave quarter f any fuch.

value ;

thing of little

Guaia'cum. »./.
Guaiacxm is attenuant and aperient. It is excellent in many chronick cafes, and was once famous

Dryden.

He muft be frufted to his own conduft, fince there
cannot always be & guard upon him, except what you
lyickf.
put into his own mind by good principles.
They, uforping arbitriry power, had \!n<i\x guardt
Sivift.
and fpics, after the practice of tyrants.

the venereal difeafe, which it ftill does
we find it
fingly in° warmer climates, but with us
have a refin of it, improperly calinuiracient.

2.

A Hate of caution

;
a ftate of vigilance.
The great alteration which he made in the ftate
ecclefiattical, caufed him to ftand upon his guard at
Davhs.
home.
Temerity puts a man offhis guard. L'EJlrange.

It is wifdom to keep ourfelves upon a guard.

L'EJIrange.

for curin"

We

Hill.

led gum guamcum.

"iGu arante'e. «./. [guarant, French.] A
power who undertakes to fee ftipulations
_

performed.
God, the great guarantee for the peace of mankind, where laws cannot fecurc it, may think it the
South.
concern of his providence.
A prince dillinguilhed by. being a paa-on of Pro.teftants, and guarantee of the Weftphalian treaty.
Addtfon on the War.
An oath is a promifc made to God, and God is our
And he is alfo the
•fuperior, fuperior to kiiiEs.
guarantee and avenger of all breach of faith and
Li'Jl'y-

injuftice.

To Gua'ranty. 'V. a. [gnrantir, French.]

Now he ftood collefled and prepai 'i

of any articles.

To GUARD. V. a [geirifer, French from
our word ijuaril, the xu being changea by
,thc French, into g ; as Gallei for Ifules.]
1 . To watch by w^y of defence and fecu;

hocke.
Men are always upon their gfard againft an apSmalridge.
pearance or defign.

Limitation; anticipation of objeftion ;
caution of expreffion.
They have exprclTed themfelves with as {cw guards

3.

and

wardfhip.

f.iir

and happy.

Run from her guardage to the footy bofom
Shateffeare^s Olhtllo.
Of fuch a thing as thou.

Gua'&der. »./.

One who guards.

Guar'dian. a./,

[gardien, French, from

When perjur'd guardians, proud with impious
gains,

Choak «jp the ftreels, too narrow for their trains
Dryden.
Hocus, with two other ofthe|;i«ir.//.i»», thought

To preferve by caution.

it

Aidijun.

their duty to

gills.

One would take care to guard one's felfagainft
this particular imperfci.lian,becaiife it it that which

aia forry for her, as I havejuft caufe, being her
Sbakefp. Much Ado.

uncle and herguardian.

Addijm on Italy.

:.

is

; and (l.uns my gratitude like a
bountiful by llealth, aud conceals \V,e

a!igel

Dijden.

The promis'd father of the tutuie age.
Pope.
Mean while Minerva, in her guardian an.
Shoots from the ftarry vaults through fields of air.
Pope.

Gua'rdianship. ». /. [from guardian.]

The office of aguaidian.
Thecurate itretch'd his patent for the cure of fouls,
to a kind of tutelary guarJianJhip over goods and
chattels.
I.'EJlrange,
I'his holds true, not only in lolTes and Indignities
offered to ourfelves, but alfo iir the cafe of Iruft,

when they are ofTeied to others who are committed
to our care and guardia*ij}jip,

Kettlenvelh

Thefeus is tlie firft who eftablifhed the popular
ftate in Athens, aflTigning to himfelf the guardianJbip of the laws, and chief commands in war.

Gua'rdless. adj. [from guard.] Without
defence.
Soon ihtguard/e/s herd, their keeper (lain,
ff'al/er.
Rulhes a tyger in the Lybian plain.
A rich land, guard.'r/! and undefended, mull
South,
needs have been a double incitement.

Gua'rdship. »./. [itom guard.]
Care ; protection.
How blefs'd am I, by fuch a man led

1.

!

Under whofe wife and careful guardjhip
I

2.

now defpife fatigue and hardlhip.

Sutfti

[Guard and^r^.] A king's fliip to guard

Gua'va..

». y;

An American fruit,

The fruit, fays Sir Hans

J

Sloane. is extremely delicious and wholefome. They have only this inconvenience, that being very aftringent, they
ftop up the belly, if taken in great quan-

Guberna'tion. n.f. [gttlernath, Latin.]
Government ; fuperintendency ; fuperioux
Pcjhaps there

;

I

who

giver when fhe beftows the gift.

dircf^ion.

One that has the care of an orphan one
who is to fupply the want of parents.

The portol Genoa it very ill guarded agaiult the

^ur aaturc vcr}' ftiongly iucliaes us 10.

fairy,

tities.

Ahifiuorth.

trailer.

3.

State of

Obfolete.

A maidfo tender,

I .

Fii'd on defence, the Trojans are not flow
To gal'"'' their (hoee from an expelled foe. Dryden

My charming patronefs proteiSs me unfeen, like
ray guardian

the coaft.

guard.]

Your pow'r you never ufc, but for defence,
Dryden.
^oguart{ your own or others innocence.

diocefe is committed, during the vacancy
of the fee. lie may be either guardian
in law, or jure magifiratus, as the archbilhop is of any diocefe within his province ; or guardian by delegation, as he
whom the archbifhop or vicar-general
Ccitxl.
doth for the time depute.
Gua'rdi AN. cdj. Performing the office of
a kind protettor or fuperintendant.

Guaia'va. 1

GtJA'RDAGE. «,/. [from guard.]

Toproteft; to defend.

ftorms.

ornamental hem, lace, or border.

Obfolete.
Part of the hilt of a fword.

5.

.Sbat^.
He to

whom the ^iritual jurifdiftion of any

Atterbury.

reftriflions as 1.

An

4.

4ity.

Naked the graces guarded you from at!
Dancers abroad, and now your thunder Qiall.

Carried to Colmcfkill,

Stui/i.
;

For malice and revenge had put him on hXi guard,
Dryden.
Others are cooped in clofc by the &t\& guards of
thofc whofe intcrelt it is to keep them igiio:ant.

To undertake to fecure the performance

2.

Where is Duncan's body.

Thus (hall majikind his guardian care engage.

With lifted hands, and gazing eyes.
His guards, behold him fo«ring through the (kies.

Hudibras.

Any
{yi" ]
as, the paring of the nails.

l-k'aterlanj.

The facred ftorehoufe of his predeceflforj
And guardian oi tlvi. bones.
Guardian of the Sfiritualiliei.

train.

Covjley.

Ben Jan/on.

/.

2%.

Th' angelick gaaii/i afccnded, mute, and fad.
MUton*i ParadiJ'e hojl.
For man.
They mlfs'd courts, gaard'^, a gay and num'tous

Our frail condition it is fuch,

n.

1 fCi'ngt, xiv.

Up into heav'n, fromparadife, in hafte

Our judges like our laws were rude and plain.

a'hat what to all may happen here,
irt chance to me, I mull not grulch.

.

Ifat/J.

Guard. »./. [gartie, French; twwf/, Teu1.

watch a;;aiiift fedi:ccrs.

A repofitory or ftorehoufe.

3.

.

There are caies, in which a man muft guard, if
he intends to keep fair with the world, and turn the

Tiog.

Cry.

to be upon t,hc

acquaint ourfelvcs a little with words.

Gru'ntlinc.s./. [frora^ras/.] A young

.

are the app*jiiifcd 'guardians of the'Chtiflian faith,

Sbakr/f.

A kirid of fi(h. [zf»^i; ]
v.

But kept a relcrviition to be lollow'd
With fuch a number.
Sbakeff. King Itar,
It tjien becomes the common concern of all that
hive truth at heart, and nurc cfpecially of thofe wh^}

Obfolete.

Give him a livery
More guarded than his felk>wJ.

To Gtt A RD, v. n.

From hence were heard
The punti of briftled boars, and grtjans of bears,

To Crutch,

Made you m.y guardians, my depolitaries ;

•

:

J.

borders.

tal

Andhcrds of howling wolves.
G8,o'nter. »•/. [frorn^r«K/.]
U He that grunts.

'.'

Briiome on Od.

li^n^

'

prarttx.

I gave you all.

Homer h.« gwflrrffrf every eircumltance with 'as
much caution as if he had been aware of the objec-

;

rruxiing
The *
* ho:i liatm the neighbours round.

of a hog.

G U D

G U A

lake care of the interell of the three
Arlrulbnot.

One to whom the care and prcfervation
of any thing is committed.

is

little

or noihtng In the govern-

ment of the kingdoms of nature and grace, but what
is

tranfafled by the man Jefus, inhibited by the di-

vine power and w ifdom, and emplo^'cd as a medium
or confcious inftrument of this extenfivc gubernatiots.
IValts.

Gtj'dgeon. n.f. [goiijon, French.]
1. A fmall fifh found in brooks and rivers,
eafily caught, and therefore made a proverbial naiTie for a man eafily cheated.
'Tis true, uo turbets dignify my boards
But gudgeem, flsundcrs, wbal m> Thama ai&rds.
Ptpf.
2.

A

G U E
2.

G U I

A man eafily cheated.

It is the opinion

This he did to draw ycu in, like fo
gfoxs, to fwallow his falfe arguments.
3.

many guJ-

G Ut

of divers good gueffen, that the

laft tit will not be more violent

than advantageous.
Pope.
If fortune (hould pleafe but to take fuch a crotchet,

Sicift.

Something to be cauoht to aman's own
dvfadvantage: a bait; an allureOient gudgeons being comnaunly ufed as baits for

To thee I apply, great Sniedley's I'ucceiTor,
To give thee lawn fleeves, a mitre and rochet.

:

Whom would

'it thou referable .'

Shattf.

Gue'rdon. n.J. [guerdon, garJon,YKnQh.]

A reward

;

bad fenfe.

a recompenfe, in a

good and

A word now no longer in ufe.

But to tht virgin comes, who al' this while
Amazed (lands heifcif fo mock'd to fee.
By him who had the guerdon of his guile.
For fo misfeigoing her true knight to be.
Spenfer.

^VJ^J'n"'^' l-S^r*' 5'r':>

7.

Methinks a father

Kno.'lei.

Is, at the nuptial of his fon, a

To fcorn delights, and live labourious days
But the fair g<«r</o» when wc hope to find.

And think to burft out into fuddsn blaie.

I

O dcfarts, dcfarts

To

(ince

conjecture ; to judge without any
certain principles of judgment.
Incapable and Ihaliow innocents

—Hum

Shaktff. M.icifli.
He that, by leafon of his fwift motions, can inform himfclf of all places and preparations, fliould
he not very often gurji rightly of things to come,
where Godpleafcth not to give impediment ?
Raltigh't Hlfiirj.

There iffue fwarming bands
Ofambufli'd men, whom, by their arms and drefs,
To be Taxcallan cRemiej I guifi.
DryJtn.
Tlie fame author ventures to g«<'fi at the particular face which-would attend (lie Roman government.

;

which parted thence

As pearls from diamonds dropt.

Shakefpeare.

Offices due to a gueft.

nature as an inftrument : nor it
knowledge divine in nature hetfelf
working, but in the^OTVc of nature's wsrk.

Hooker
_
Some truths are not by reafon to be tried.
But we have fure experience for our guide.
Dryden.
Gui'deless. adj. [from guide.] Having

j

UlylTes fo dear

no guide ; wanting a governour or fuper.
intcndant.
Th' ambitious Swede, like reftlcfs billows tod,

Chapman.
Gue»tchamber.«,/ [giieflMdi chamber.]
Chaml)er of entertainment.

1'hough in his life he blood and ruin bieath'd.

To his now guideleft kingdom peace bequeath'd.
Dryden.
~,
There rfierce winds o'er dulky valleys blow,

Where is the gmjlchamier, where I (liall eat the
Mark. xiv. 14,

pafTover with my difciples ?

To Gu'gole, t/.

n.

[gorgtilaire,

Whofe every puffbcars empty (hades away.
Which guide/efs in thofe dark dominions flrsy.

Italian.]

To found as water running with inter-

G

Drydir.

Gur'DER. n.f. [from

miffions out of a narrowmouthed veffcl.
i'd A

juft reafon.

light,

To

highly probable that miracles, or a melTagc from the dead would pcrfuade them.

certain direftion of the judgment.

Particular application muft be left to Chriftian
prudence, under the ga/y^w/ of God's holy fpirit,
who knows our necetlity before wc aflc, and our ignorance in alking.
Rogers.

not this wonderful ability hj learning his leflbn bv

This to the younj— but thy CTperienc'd age

i^^^;

The enemy's in view ; draw up your powers.
Hard is liicgue/i of their true ftrciigth and forces.
Shaktfp.

HugutJJf was ufuaJly as near to prophecy as any
man's.

.

Wants not the guidvnce of a former fage.

Sewel.
A prince ought not to be under the guidance or
influence of cither fartion, bccaufe he declines
from
his office of prefiding over the vvhole to be the head
of a party.
Swift.
To
%'. a
[guider, French.]

GLIDE.
1. To direft in a way.

When the fpirit of truth is come, he v,\\\ gulJt
you into all truth.
%. xvi. 13.

;.>//

A poetmuftconfffs

The new light ferved to guide them to their
neighbours colTers.
Decay 'fl'icty.
Whofoever has a faithful friend to guide him in
the dark palTagea of life, may can-y his eyes in another man's head, and yet fee never the worfe.

HW art't like phyfick, but a happy guefi.

Dryd.
wrong way of proceeding to venture a
gi»»ler good for a lef«, uponunceruin gurgii,
belbre
It

is

a

» due enamination.

We

Locke.

may make fome gu,f, at the diftin«ion of
things, into thofe that arc according to,
above, and
contrary to reafon.
Locke

South.

2.

Upon thefe, or fuch like ferular maxims, when
nothing but the mtercll ol this world guuiri men,
they many times conclude that the fligliteil wrongs
arc not to be put up.
KntlcweU.

This problem yet, this ofTspringof a r»//j,
Let ut for once a child of truth confefs.
Prior.
N<f>nan is bleft by actident, or ^uep,

True wifdom is the price of happinefi.

Gu RISER, n.f.

Tiung.

[from gurfs.^ Conjecturcr; one who judges without certain
knowledge.

To influence.

3.

4.

To govern by counfcl

;
to inftruft.
For thy name's fike lead me and guide me.

To regulate

PAixxi. 3.
;

to fuperintend.

Sijaifp.

had great reafon to acknowledge chance for his chirurgeon, and Providence for the guider of his hand.

it is

GUI' DON.

AltciLury.

If Xerxes was able to call every common foldier
by his name in his army, it may be gutjfrd he got

grounds.

'

Spenfer.
As to thefe who li«d under the guidance of
reafon alone, without the alTillance of fupematural

might let them alone ; but that himfclf had a right
opinion concerning the true God.
SiiUingJlee/.
To Guess, v. a.
hit upon by accident
to determine rightly of any thing without

heart.

!

wifermen.

who would ha« them might.and they who would not,

DireiSor

Tx.
r
That perfon,
that being provoked by excelfivc
pain, thruft his dagger into his body, and thereby,
inftead of reaching his vitals, opened
an impofthuine, the unknown caufe of all his pain,
and fo
dabbed himfelf into pcrfeO healih and eafe, furrly

government.
They charge me with neglefling iht gmdaiict o(

gue/s by Plato's writings, that his
meaning, as to the inferiour deities, was, that they

K

E.

tion ;

One may

guide.]

regulator; guide.
Obfolete,
Out guider come to the Romancamp conduft ti..

u
c
n.f. [from guii/e.] The reward
My pure.1 pallion has bctray'd.
Swift.
given to a guide.
Ainfivorth.
a. To conjefture rightly, or upon fomc
Gui'dance. n.f. [from guide,] Direc-

GuEss. n.f. Jfrom the verb.] Conjefture;
judgment wunout any pofitive or certain

ufiiig

there any fuch

Agiftefteem'd it, that he would not beare
In hia black Secte that guefi-rite to the war.

N<sr can imagination gw/t

How that ungrateful charming maid

performed,

Sidney.

Gue'strite. n.f. [from ^tf^ and rite.^

Swift.

,

things

!

What guejls were in her eyes

I gutft at it.

'

In him wc live, move, and are.
Thofe
which nature is faid to do, are by divine art

nature ?

how lit a guefl am I for you,
my heart can people you with wild ravenous

That play'd on her ripe lip, feem'd not to know

Shakefp.

Let not your ears defpifc my tongue for ever.

Who the guide of nature, but only the God of

Thofe happiel) fmiles

!

Peafon.

^

3. Direftor ; regulator.

who comes newly to

beads, which in you arc wanting >

You cannot gur/s who cauj'd your father's death.
Which fiiall poffefs them with the heavieft found

the fame way

of eternal falvation.

Dryden.

refide.

[gkife«, Dntch.]

While yet but young, his father dy'd,

And left him to an hiffy guide.
ffailer.
They have all the lame palloral guides appointed,

Shakefp

Tell my royal gurft
add to his commands ray own requeft.

Aftranger; one

t.

Benham.

One who direfls another in his conduft.

2.

authorifed, fanftified, and fet apart by
the
appointment of God by the direftion of the fpirit,
to direa and lead the people of God in

gaeft

That bell becomes the table.

Comes the blind fury, with th' abhorred iheen.
And flits the thm-fpun life.
Milton.

Than, led by a falfe guide to err by day ?

the houle or at the
table of another.
They all murmured, faying, that he was gone to
be guejl with a man that is a (inner. Luke,x\i.

Fame is the fpur that the clear fpiritdoth raife.

To GUESS, -v. a.

Saxon j^Tt^j/i!,

One entertained in

He ihall by thy revenging hand, at once receive
the j'jft guerdon of all his former villainies.

mull aivanee

So far to make us wi(h for ignorance ?
And rather in the dark to grope our way.

Sbakejp.

Welih.J

I.

f [guide, French, from the

Thou gaveft them a burning pillar of fire to
be a
^-Birfcof the unknown journey.
fVifd.xm\. 3.
Can kno« ledge have no bound, but

;

have a \tnct guefingly fet down.

„.

One who direfts another in his veay.

1

GUESSINGLV. aJ-v, [(com gi^fj^rrg.] Conjecturally uncertainly. Not in ufe.
I

ol the Lou'e.

Decay rf Piety.

Guide

Swift.

But filh not with this melancholy bait,
For this fjol's guHgfiit, this opinion.

1.

as their proper bufinels, the guiding

verb.]

I leave thee a guejjer.

pike.

.

Women neglea that which St. Paul alTigps them

[French.] A ftandlrd'.!
Obfolete.
n.f. [5ili>pp, Saxon, a fellown. /.

bearer ; a ffandard.

GUILD,
1

|

fhip, a corporation. J
A fociety; a corporation
a fraternity or company, com;

bined together by orders and laws made
among themfelves by their prince's licence.
Hence the common word gild
or guildhall proceeds, being a fraternity

or commonalty of men gathered into
one combination, fupporting their common charge by mutual contribution.
Com)e!,

TowaiJs three or four o'clock

Look for the news that the gir/Vif hall aflFords.
Slialejf. Rich. III.
In woolen cloth it appears, by thofe ancient g«;A/i
that were fetiled in England for this
unilatlutc,
that this kingdom greatly flourilhe d in that art.

m

llule*s Origin af AJankindt

As when the long-car'd milky mothciv. wait
At foine fick mifcr's trifle bolted gate.
For their defrauded abfcni fjals ihcy make
A moan (b loud, that all the jz/iVj'awake.
Pope.

GUILE. K. f,

old French,
Deceitful rmining ;

[guille, gille

the fame withtWc.]

iniidious artifice; mifchievous fLbtiltv.

Witk

Gui'ltless.

With fawning words he courted her awWIe,

And loolciiig lovely, and oft lighing fore,
SfcHjtr.

When 1 have moft need to employ a friend,
Deep, hollow, treacherous, and luU ofgui/e.
Be he to me This do I beg of hcav'n.
When 1 am cold in zeal to you or yours. Shikejf.
We may, with more fucccfsful hope lefolve
!

MUioit.

To wage by force or gailc eternal war.

Nor thou bis malice and falfc ^wVe contemn :
Subtile he needs mull be who could feduce
Milton's Paradift Lyt.
j^„g(l3_

rhotfr.

Without eipence at all.

By' "MiWW fair words, peace may be obtain'd.

Sbakeff. Henry VI

He (ivthisguiuful 1&.
By Eve, though all unweeting, feconded
M:/tc>t-i ParaJi/t I.oJ.
Upon her huftand
The guiUfttl phantort now forfook the Ihrowd,

On his own head ihould be at lad repaid. Dryden. J
The teeming eanh ytt guiltlefs of the plough.
Dryden.
And onprovok'd did fruitful llorcs allow.
Thou know'ft how guiltlefs firll I met thy Kame,
When love approach'd me under friendlliip's name.
Pope.

Back, Ihcpherds, back:

Gui'ltlesslv.ci/'^. {itota guiltlefs.] With-

Here be without duck or nod,

A good number, trufting to their number more than
to iheir value, and valuing money higher than equity,
felt that guiltleffnefs is not always with eafe op-

would not have had any hand in his death, of
whofe gui.tlcjfnefs 1 was better affured than any man
I

fimply

void of infidioufncfs ;
S"'^^-

Juftly chargeable with a crime; not in-

1.

^'^-

^^^

Sp;»fir.

GUII/r. »./. [jilr, Saxon, originally lig-

Sbakeff.

With mortal hatred I puifu'd his life.
Nor he, nor you, ymt guilty of the ftrife
Nor I, but as 1 lov'd yet all combin'd.
Your beauty and my impotence of mind.

the contrary to innocence.
nor reafon of ftate,

that could (juencn the envy that was upon the king
B.ncu'i Hemy Vll.
for this execution.

When thcfe two are taken away, the polfihility ot
guilt, and the podibility of innocence, what rcllraint
tan the belictof tie creed lay upon any man.

ilainHtond on Fundamentals,

C'.ofe pent up guilts

Ri»e your concealing continents, and a(k
Thafe dreadful lummoners grace.

without clearnefs

of con-

fcience.
Bloody and guilty ; guiltily awake.
And io a bloody b.iltle end thy days
Tmnk on lord H.iilings, and dcfpair, and die.
:

Hbaieff.

RiihAU.

The
Gui't-TINESS. ». /. [from guilty.]
ftate of being guilty; wickedncfs ; con-

Gui-CH.

Farewel the ftones

D'yden.
There is no man, that is knowingly wicked, but is
gn//// to himfelt ; and there is no man that carries
Euilt about him, but he receives a Ring into his foul.
'

2.

Tbomfon.

Then what Ihould war be ?

Religious canons, civil laws are cruel
Sbakejpeare's Timoiti

He whofe fable arms.
Black as his purpofe, did the knight refcmble.
When he laid couched in the ominous horfe.
Hath now his dread and black complexion fmear'd
With heraldry more difmal ; head to foot.
Now he is total gules.
Sbaktffeare,

[from Guinea, a counAfrica, abounding with gold.]
try
A gold coin valued at one and twenjy
By the word gold I mud be underftood to deftgn a
is,

the

He thought his Bight rather to proceed of a fearful
tu'iilix'Js than of an humble laithtulnefs.

Hidnty.

The laft was 1 that felt thy tjTanny,

lall

that was coined.

guinea

GULF. ti.f. [golfi, Italian.]

Lvcke.

1.

Lad ies, whofe love is conllant as the wind
Toung.
Cits, who prefer a guinea to mankind.
Gul'^iE.^DJlOPPER. n. J', [guinea and drof.]

And die in (erreor of thy gmMinrfs.
my4«////«^.

2.

Gay.

G u i'n E A u e N, ». /. A fowl, fuppofed to be

fnout,

pig's

y-frii-a.

Miller,

A fmall animal with a

brought,

I

believe,

An abyfs

an unmeafureable depth.
;
Thence turning back, in filencefoftthey dole.
Sfenf,

Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulply,
Shakejpeare.
Than flatter him in a bower.
This is the gulf through which VirgiPs Alefto
(hoots herftif into hell; the fall of waters, the \vood3
that cncompafs it, are all in the deftription. Addif.
The fea could not be much narrower than it is.
Without a great lofs fo the world ; and mull we now
have an Oicau of mere flats And (hallows, to the

Gui'sjEAPEPPER. n.f. [capficum, Latin.]

Shjkefp.

Curfu, into the gulf of the
Kntlles.

And brought the heavy coifc with eafy pace
To yawning gulpb of deep Avernus' hole.
I know ihoud'il rather

Trick'd by the iharpcr's dice, 01 juggler's cards.

tihjtkejj;.

an opening into land.
;
The Venetian admiral withdrew himfelf farthtr

Adriatick.

Who now the guineadroffer's bait regards,

A plant.

A bay

od' from the iHand

One who cheats by dropping guineas.

Gui'neapic. u.f.

O, in the battle think on Buckingham,

A

Follow thy drum ;.
With man'sblood paint theground : gules, gulesi

n.f.

particular piece of matter; that

Prier,

[troin ^«/a, Latin.]

raldry.

All the tumults of a guilty world,.

GUl'NEA.

».f.

Tillotfon.

Wicked; corrupt.

Toil by ungenerous pallion, finks away.

1

little glutton. Skinner.
Gu'lchin. J
Gules, adj. [perhaps from goule, the
throat.]
Red: a barbarous term of he*

of Guinea.

fcioufnefs of crime.

be iuiltier than

Sallads and eggs, and lighter fart,.

Tune the Italian fpark's guitar.

Dryden.

fiiillings.

Slaie/f.

Gui'ltily aJ-u. [from guilty.] Without

I fliould

Cck.

in

A, crime ; an offence.

innocence;

The Hugonots were enf^ed in a civil war, by
the fpecious pretences of fome, who under the guife
of religion, facrificed fo many thoifands lo their
Sv.ifl,
own ambition.
Guita'r. n.f. [ghitara, Italian .. guiterre,
French.]
A Itringed inftrunient of rau-

;

The ftaie of a man juflly charged with a

Temple,

various guifes.

Look'd pale, when they did hear ol Clarente* death ?

And fhrelhold.j/uVry of my midnight moans.

and afterwards the offence itfelf. J

'

play, and then the fiturvy, which uas the general
complaint, and both were thought to appear in many

How that the guilty kindred of the queen

nified the fine or mulft paid for an offence,

,

Shatefp, Love's Labour L'.fi.

We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in

Sogoodly did beguile the guihrot the prey.

a.

When 1 was very young, nothing was fo much talked of as rickets among children, and confumption>
among young people : after thcfe the fpleen came in

— The world was^*;i^y offuch a ballad fome three

that we faw the anguilh of his foul when he befought
Gen. xlii. 21,
us, and we would not hear.

And well perceived his deceitful (Icisht;
Nc fulfeted lult his fafety to betray ;

External appearance; drefs.

3.

Is there not a ballad of the king and the beggar }

agesfince.

Millet.

Their external Ihapes are notoriouHy accommodated to that law or guife of life that nature has deligned them.
Mme.
2. Prartice ; cuftom ; property.
I have drunke wine pall my ufual guife;
Strong wine commands the foolc, and moves the wile.
Chap.
This would not be llept
Old guife muft be kept.
Benyonfm.
The fwain reply'd, it never was ourguife
To (light the poor, or aught humane dcfpife. Pofe^

nocent.

that betrays into danger

It was neither guilt ol crime,

As Mercury did firft devife.

Mark'd you not

But he was wary wife in all his way.

crime ;

King Cbarlet.
one con-

living could bc_.

demned to pay a line for an offence.]

by inlidious praftices.

I.

Sidney.

prefled.

Milton.

honeft.
[ffoi"

Of lighter toes and fuch court guife

Gui'lti.essness,
f. [from guiltlefs.]
Innocence ; freedom from crime.
tti

GUI'LTY. adj. [511^15, Saxon,
Se-

Other trippings to be trod.

out guilt; innocently.

In-

cret treachery ; tricking cunning.
Gui'tELESS. adj. \hom. guile.] Free from

Gui'ler. »• /•
cuiLE.] One

Fairfax.

7
Guililrfs of greatnefs, thus he always pray'd,
Nor knew nor wilh'd he that thofc vows he made >

thy brethren to that guileful hole.
Siakeff.
Where the dead corps of Bafliai.us lay.

Gui'leful NESS. »./; [from^«*/a/.]

fairf.
Lo you ; here (he comes : this is her very guife ;
and, upon my life, fall afleep : obferve her, (land
dofe.
Sbakeff .Macbeth
They fland a horrid front
Of dreadful length, and dazzling arms \n guife
Of warriorsold, with ordcr*d fpearand Ihield,
Awaiting what command their mighty chief
Milton's Paradife LcJI.,
Had to impofe.
By their guife
Jullmen they feem, and all their lludy bent
Milton's Paradife Left.
To worfliip God a-right.

Preferve this guiltlrfs blood tliey feek to fpill;

Thine be my kingdom.

1 train'd

fidioufly ; treacheroufly.

T' enchant the valiant and beguile the wife,

And never willert aught but what is right,

Treacherous ; fecretly mifchievous.

Gui'lefully. aJ-v. [irom guileful.]

viour.
His own (ire, and mailer of his guife.
Old often tremble at his horrid view.
Sfenfir,
Thus women know, and thus they ufe the guifc,

Spakefp. Otbtllo
All guittlefs, meet reproach.
Then Ihall the man be guiltlefs from iniquity,
jT.dthis woman (hall bear her iniquity. Num. v. 31.
Thou, who do'ft all thou wiflieft at thy will,

Uryden's Mn.

deceit ;

n.f. [The fame wTlh wj/!-, gttife,
French ; fif a, Saxon, the p or iv being
changed, as is common, into^.]
Manner ; mien ; habit ; caft of beha-

1

Many worthy and chafte dames thus.

And flew fublime, and vanilh'd in a cloud.

To whom the Ktavx^r guilefully rsply'd.

Guise,

I will not real'on what is meant hereby,
Becaufe I will be guiltUfs of the meaning. Sbakeff.

jnfidious; mifchievoufly artful.

The way not to be inveigled by them that are fo
guUr/u/ through (kill, is thoroughly to be mftrudlcd
Ikilful .igiinft guile.
111 that which miketh

2.

Inno-

guilt.]

The noble duke ot Clarence to your hands:

Gui'leful. a/ij. [guile znd/ull.]
Wily;

[from

adj.

cent ; free from crime.
i am in this commanded to deliver

Herconftint heart did court with divers gui/f j
But words and look;, and fighs flie did abhor.

1.

G U L

G U I

G U I

from

utter
I

SUM

G U L
utter rjin of mvigation, for fear our htiit fiiould
turn giddy at the imagination of gaping abyfles and
Bintley.
uiifaihomable gu/Jj f

J.

Any thing infatiable,

which isfeparated from its inward coat, the fpittlc
which is fwa'.lowed, and the liquor which dillils
from the gullet.
Arbut'or.Qt
The F.uxine fea and the Mediterranean, fmall gu!lels, if compared with the ocean.
tl,y!yn.

Shakrfp.

mouth or

Scull of dragon, tooth of wolf,

maw and gulf

Of the ravening fait fca {hark ;
Shakrfp.

Root of hemlock, digg'd i' th' dark.

whirlpools ;

Full of gulfs or

To Gu'lly. -j. n. [corrupted from^.rj/f.J
To run with noife.
Gu'llyhole. n.f. [from ^fft/yt and io/?.]
The hole where the gutters empty them-

iiorticojus.

felves in the fubterraneous fewer.

Rivets arifei whether thou be the fon
Of utmort Tweed, or Oofe, ot gulfyV)<m. Milton.
At their native realms the Creeks arriv'd,
All who the war of ten long years furviv'd.
Pope.
And fcap'd the perils of the gvlfy main.

High o'er a gulfy fe» the Pharian ifle
Fronts the deep roar of difemboguiug>iile.

Ta GULL.

Pcf<.

[guilUr, to cheat,

old
French.] To trick : to cheat ; to defraud
to deceive.
If 1 do not gull him into a nay word, and make
ij.

a.

Gu'losity. ». /.
They are

Sbakiffmrt.
enough to lie ftraight in my bed,
Yet love thefe forc'ries did remove, and move

Thee to gull thine own mother for my lovk Dannt.
He would have gull'd him with a trick.
be gull'd twice with the fame
I.'EJraxgf.
Irick.
The Roman people were grofsly gulled twice or
cnflaved
one
century,
often
in
thrice over, and as
under the fame pretence of rt'-rmation. Drydm.

By their defigning leaders taught.

The vulgar, gull'd into ttbellion, arm'd.

Drydtn.

For this advantage age from youth has won.
As not to be out-ridden, though out-rvn i
By fortune he was now to Venus trin'd.
And with Hern Mars in Capricorn was join'd :

ftldom offending

in

termifiion.

He loofens the filh, gulpt it down, and fo foon as
ever the morfel wugone wipes his mouth.
L'EJlr.
1 fee the double ttaggon charge their hand
;
See them puff off the froth, and gulp amain,
Whila with dry tongue I lick my lips in vain. Gay.

Gulp, n, f. [from the verb]

As mach as

can be fwallowcd at once.
In deep fufpirations we take more Urge gulps of
air

to cool our heart, overcharged witli

love

and

More.

forrow.

As oft as he can catch a gulf of air.
And peep above the feai, he names the fair. Dryd.

and generally dilfolving in aqueous menftruums; whereas i^fins, being more fulphurous, require a fpirituous diflblvent.

Of him difpofing in his own abode.
DiydtH.

[Mergus.^

A fea-bird.

A cheat

a fraud ; a trick.

;

One whofe eyes.
Albeit unufed to the melting mood,
Drtjpp'd tears as fall as the Arabian trees
Their medicinal gum.
Sbakeffeare's Oibelh.
He ripens fpices, fruit, and precious gum.
Which iroia remoteil region, hither come. Haulier.

[from the verb,]

1.

(hould think this a gull, but that the whileSbakrffrart' i Muth Ado.
hcardcd fcllo'v fpeaks it.
I

Either they have thefe cicellencies they are praifed
for, or they hate not ; if they have not, 'tie an apGo-vernment of the Tongue.
parent cheat and gull,

A ftupid animal

3.

;

one eafily cheated.

' Being fed by us you us'd us h,
Jis that ungentle gull, the cucknw bird,

Shakrfp. Henry IV.
Ufeth the fparrow.
Why have you fufftr'd me to be imprifoo'd.
Kept in a dark houfe, vilited by the prielt.
And made the mod notorious geek and gull
That e'er invention plaid on ? Shak. Ttvrtfib Night.

That paltry ftory is untrue.

And forg'd to cheat fuch guilt as you.

Her maiden train.

Here comes my noble guUeatchir.
GuLLER. n.J. [from gull.]

Incenfc, and od'rous gums, and cover'd tire. Dryden.

[Eoma, Saxon; gumme, Dutch.]

2.

The

covering that inverts and contains
the teeth.

flelliy

The babe that milks me,
I'd pluck my nipple from his bonelefsfsmx.

Shak.

Sh' unt»nfts a wire, and from her gums
fct of teeth completely comes.

Smift.

A

To Gum. "v. a. [from the noon.]
with gum ; to fmear with gum.

lludibrat.

A cheat; an
AinJ^wjrlh,

pofture.

Gu'llet. n.f. [goulil, French; gula, Lat.]
I .

gummy

'1 he throat ; the paffage
through which
the food palles; the meat-pipe; the oefo-

phagU3.

One day to fiog
With gullet in firing.
Denbam.
Many have the gullet or feeding channel which
have no lungs or windpipes; as filhes which have
gills, whereby the heart is refrigerated;
for fuch
thereof as have lungs and refpiration are not withwhalci and cetaceous animals.
out whiiUOBi
Brtfuu't yulg. Err.

M

accumulation of

The tendons are involved wiih a great gumminefs

Kindles the gumny bark of fir and pine.
3.

Miltot.

Overgrown with gum.
The yuwning youth, fcarce half awake, eflkj*
His lazy limbs and dozy head to raife;
Dryden,

[Of this word there is no fa-

M/ Lye obferve*
that_fa» in Iceland fignifics battle; but
when guns came into ufe we had no com-

tisfaftory etymology.

.

merce with Iceland. May not gun come
by gradual corruption from cdune, ganne,
guime? Canne is the original of cannon.^
'ilie general name for fire-arms ; the inftrument from which (hot is difcharged

by fire.
Thefe dread curfes, like the fun 'gainit glafs.

Or like an overcharged ^««, recoil
And turn upon thyfelf.
Sbaiefprarf't Henry W,
The Emperor, fmiling, faid that never Emperor
was yet (lain with a^an.

Knolles's Hijlory.

The bullet flying, makes xht gun recoil.

Cleawl...

we (huo.

In vain the dart or glitt'ring I'word

Condemn 'd to perilh by the flaught'ring gun.

Gu'nner. n.f.

[frotn^fx*.]

Cannonier;

he whofe employment is to manage the
artillery in a mip.
The nimble gunner
With lynftock now the devililh cannon touches,
And down goes all before him, Shakrfp. Henry V.
'I'hey ilcw the principal gunners, and carried away

Hayward.

their artillery.

Gu'nnery, it.f. [(torn gunner.] The fciencc
of artillery ; the art of managing cannon.

powder put into guns to be fired, Itconfifts of about fifteen parts of nitre, three
parts of fulphur, and two of charcoaL

The proportions are not exai.1Iy kept.
Cunpntvder confiftelh of three ingredients,

infeman's Surgery.

Burning by gunpo-wjer frequently happens at fea.
If'ifemaii,

or range of a gun; the fpace to which a
(hot can be thrown.
Thofc who are come over to the royal party ai*
fuppofed to be out of gunji^'it.
Dryden.

Gu'xsHOT. adj.
gun.
The fymptoms

Made by the
I

have

tranflated

;

Sugar and honey make windy liquours, and the
elallick fermenting particles are detained by their
\nniic gummo/ily.
Fhyer.

Gu'mmous. aiij, [from^»««.]

Obfervailons concerning Englilh amber, and reamber of I'ruflia, prove that amber
not a gummous or refinous fubitance drawn out of
trees by the fun's heat, but a natural foffil.
If^oodviard.
IS

Gu'mmy. at/J. [from^«OT.]
1. Confifting ol gum;
ot the n^ure of

fliot

to

of a

gvnjhot
Ilifeman.

A man

whofe trade is to make guns.
It is of particular cfteem with Aq gttnfmitbs for
Mart.

(locks.

Of the na- Gu'nstick.

lations about the

gum.

falf.

petre, (mall-coal, and brimftone. Brovin' s Vulg. £rr.

wounds.
Gumma's IT Y. n./.\itomgummous.'] The
Gu'nsmith. v.y. [gimSinAfmith,]
nature of gum
gumminefs.

ture of gum.

It might be his dooii]«

;

gum.
and coUeiSion of matter.

impoftor.

Gu'li,ery. a./, [from ^«//.] Cheat; im-

Tine the flant lightnings; whofe thwart flame driv'»
down,

To clofe Gu'nshot.
n.f. [gun znd J^ct,] The teach

The eyelids are apt to hegummrj together with a

Hate of being
Sbakrfpeari.

Diyden.

Gu'npowder. n.f, [gunanA poivder.] The

Who bore the veils that holy rites requiK,

Gu'llcatcher. n./. [gull znA catch.] A
vifcous humour,
lyifeman's Surgery.
cheat ; a man of trick ; one who catches Gu'mminess. n. /. [from gummy.] The
filly people.

And o'er the Po diliiis her gummy tears.
Produftive of gum.
The clouds

Granville,
GUM. »./. [gti.'nma, Latin.]
1. A vegetable fubftance diftering from a Gu'nnel. n.f. [corrupted (tam gunwale.
refin, in being more vifcid and lefs friable,
See Gu nwale.]

He footh'd the joddefs, while he guli'd the god.

2.

z.

GUN. »,/

To Gulp. 'v. a. [gvlfen, Dutch.] To fwallow eagerly ; to fuck dowa without in-

They are not to

ad

temperate,

Dryden.

How each arifing alder now appears.

Then rubs hii gummy eyes, and fcruhs his pate.

[^7//t/;</,

ebricty, not erring in guloftty^ or fuperfluity of meats.

Hudibras.

But Mart wai too too politick.

very

Raleigh.

Vor all the gummy Horn Arabia yields.

Gree-

Latin.]
dinefs; gluttony; voracity.

him a common recreation, do not think I have wit

Gull. »./.

like a cord.

The liquor in the Itomach is a compound of thjt

as the

Gu'l t Y, adj. [from gulf.\

From the utmoft end of the head branches there
iffueih out ag«»:«yi juice, which hangeth downward

Nature has various tender mufclcs plac'J,

ftomach.
Witchei mummy ;

GUN

Not in ufe.

By which the artful gullet is embrac'd. Ehickmore.

A whirlpool, a fucking eddy.
finaland bis approa*;hes makes as fierce
As waters to the fuckinr 'I' a gulf.

^.

2. A fmall ftream or lake.

rammer

n. /,

[^tin

and fich]

The

or ftick with which the charge
is driven into a gun.
;

Ev'n a gunfiick flying into fame.

Sieiiart.

Gu'nstock. n,f. [gun and fiocL] Xl'C
wood to which tlie barrel of the gun is
fixed.

The timber is ufcd for bows, pullies, fcrews, mills,
and gumfiodt.

Atirliiker's Hi(fbandry,

\

Gu'it-

Gu'nstonk.

n. /.

fhot of cannon.

The
[gwi aniJloHf.]
They ufed formerly to

My fight, and fmell, and hearing were employ'd.
}. Love; liking.
To kill, I gram, is fin's extremeft £»/ ; _
But, in defence, by mercy 'tis made jull. Sbakefp.
f)Id age Ihall do the work of taking away both
VEjirange,
ihtga/l and comfort of ihein.
We liave loU, in a great meafure the guft and

o^ a Ship, v.f.
That piece of timber which reaches on
either fide of the (hip from the half deck
to the fore-caftle, being the uppermoft
bend which finilheth upper works of the
hull in that part, and wherein they put

what

to find

Gluttony; loveof gorhianditing.

3.

Apicius, thou didll on thy guli bellow
Full ninety millions j yet, when tl.is v.-a5 fpcnl.
Ten millions ftill rcmain'd to thcej wl-.ich thou,'

A fudden vio-

Fearing to fuficr thirft and familhment.

HakcjAllon Provid,
In poifon'd potion drank'll.
1; a. [from the noun.]
To

Sbakr/f,

Gut.
To evifcerate

1.

;

to draw ; to exenterate.

I'he fiOicrmep f:!ve the moil part of their fifh :
fome arc gulled, fpliltcd, powdcicd, and dried.

You may as well forbid the mountain pines
To wag their high tops, and to make a noife.

Carnv't Conrwall.

When they arc fretted with the gujs of hcav'n.
Sbakffp,

In Nero'-, arbitrary time.

northern

blafts

liom

A '.roop of cut-tiiroat guards were fent to fcize

Alps

ih'

To fall or gulh with noife, as water from
a bottle.
Then when a fountain's gurgling waters play.
They ruft) to laud, and end in feafts the day. Poft.

The rich men's goods, and gar their palaces. DryJ.

'

Tom Brown of facetious memory, having gutted
a proper name of its vowels, ufed it as freely as he

defcend.
From his firm roots with ftruggling gujls to rend
Dtnbam.
An aged fturdy oak.
Part (lay lor paflage, 'till a^»y? of wind
Dryjcti.
Shipt o'er their forces in a (hmiiig ftieet.

Italian.]

A

drop.]
dropped.

Gu'tter.

be not alham'd of my folditrs I am a fowc'd
damnably.
titrnet t I liavemifus'd the King's prefs
*
Sbakt/f. Henry V.

1

1.

To be tailed.
Tliis pofition informs us of a vulgar errour, ter-

ming the gall bitter; whereas there is nothing g////,!tUriry.

iU fwecter.

A fea of blood gujh'd from the gapmg wound.
That her gay garments ftain'd with filthy gore.

Pleafant to the tafte.
Kgujiabh thing, feen or fmelt,

2

Sfenjcr.

excites the ap-

petite, and affeds the glands and parts of the mouth.

The covering of this abyfs was broken afundcr,

Dtrham.

and the water gujhed out ihat made the deluge.

Gusta'tion. »./. [f«/7», Latin.] The ad

Burntt.
Inceffint ftreams of thin magnetick rayt
Cujh from their fountains with impetuous force.
In eillier pole, then take an aJvtrfe ccutfe.

of tafting.
The gullet and conveying parts partake of the
nerves oi gujlathn, or appertaining unto fapor.

Blackmore,

I^ri,iun.

On cither hand the gujhing waters play.
And down the rough cafcade white dafning fall.

Gd'stful.

a paCage

;

made by

in length ten inches and a

Moxvn.
Rocks rife one above anotlier, and hive deep gutters woxa in the fides of them by torrents of rain.
AdSiJ on on Italy,
fmall longitudinal hollow.
2.

What he defaults from fome dry infipid fin,
but to make up for fome other more gujifut.

To emit in a copious effluxion.
The gaping wound g"fl>'d out a crixfon flood.
Dry den.

An cmiffion

once;
of liqueur in a large quantity at

is

U

Gu'sstT. »./. {goi'ffit. French.] Any thing
fewcd on to cloth in order to ftrengthen

;

palate.

Deibam,
2. Intelledual tafte ;

liking.

have written, let them bring
Drydtn.
no particular g«/fo along with them.

In reading what

1

Gu'sTY.fl/^'. [from^/y/.j Stormy; tempef-

tuous.
Once upon a raw and gujly day,

GUST. »./. \go"ft^ French; gnjius, Latin.]

The troubled Tyber chafing with his (hores.

Dcftroy all creatures for thv fport oigujl.

Shaiiefp.Jnl.CfJ.

Yet cry, if roan's unhappy, God'mnjuft.

Ot whirl'd tcmpefhious by the gujiy wind.

Pifr.

Height of perception ; height of fcnfual
enjoyment.

GUT. n.f. [itttteh. German.]
.

'fhey fondly thinking to allay
Their appetite with gufi, inftead of fruit

The long pipe reaching with many convolutions from the ftomach to the vent.

Cliew'J b Iter alhes, which th' offetidcJ tafte

Milm.

feas,

and howling

1\\t gutter' d xocVi, and congregated fands,
Traitors enftecp'J to clog iheguiltlefs keci.
As having lenfc of beauty, do omit
Their mortal natures, letting fate go by
Shakijf. Otbelh.
The divine Dcfderoona.
checks are gjr/.vr'i/ with my fretung tears.

My

A

they build

narrow flooring, ga/rcr'./, wail'd,

and til'd
Dryden.

To Gu'ttle. -v. n. [fromgw/.]
to

To feed

A lo*

gormandife.

word.
His jolly brother, oppofite in fenfe,
Laughs at his thrift! and, lavifh 01 expencc,
QuaBs, crams, aiidgir//.'i j m his own defence.

Pleafant gujios gratify the appetite of the luxurious.

1

Senfe of tailing.

high

winds,

luxurjoufly;

the power by
which any thing excites fenfations in the

The relifti ot any thing

the liquour fo emitted.
generally at the firft
a lung-vein be burflcd,
Harvry.
up.
cough a great gujh of blood is coughed

Tempclls themfelves,

Sandys.

Decay of tiety.

1

To

cut in fmall hollows.

Firft in a place, by nature clofe,

GUSTO, n,f. [Italian.]
rcfe.

A

To Gu'tter. rj. a. [from the noun.]

adj. [guji ahifuil.] Taft;eful

well-tafted.

^bomf(ln.

T

A paffage for water
Thefe gutter tiles are

Gu'sTABLE. adj, [g"Jlo, Latin.]

body.

•

a throat,

half.

to fpring in a fmall ftream, but in a larger

it.

DUI,
[from guttur,

». /.

water.

a^enJiT}',

To Gush. v. n. [|-a/?f.'(?»,_Dutch.J
with violence; not
1. To flow or rum out

Line after line my gujhing eyes o'crflow,
lei through a fad variety of wee.

[from gutta, Latin, a
Eerprinkled with drops; beadj.

Latin.]

fports.
For jolly knight he feem'd, and fair did fit.
As one for knightly gi'Jii and fierce encounters fit.

If I

Addifm.

pleafed.

Gu'ttathd.

Pardon a weak diilempct'd foul, that fwells
With fudden gujiiy and finks as foon in calms.
Mdifin's Cato.
The fport of palfions.
6. It is written in Spinftr vitioufly iotjufiu

Pure gurgling rills tjie lomly defert trace,
And wafte iheir mufick on the f»vaM race. Touitg.
,

fierce

To plunder of contents.
When virtue was a guilt, and wealth a crime,

B^ccn'iHtnryWX.
As when

Gu'rnard. \n./. [giurnal, French.]
kind of fea fi(h.
Gu'rnet. J

2,

Prcfently come forth fwarms and volleys 0! libels,
which are ihi g«J}s of liberty of fpeech rdlrained.

The coarfer part of the

Wiih ffaitcring noife rejeflcd.

is

Command an argofie to ftem the waves.

meal, fifted from the bran.

•

principal part of painting

As doth a fail, fill'd with a fretting g/'T?,

The plain, wherein a Wack bituminojs gurg^t
Milion's far. hoji.
Boih out from under gr.'Uiid.

2,

HuMrat.
With cawdle, cuftard, and plum-c*ke.
With falfe weights their fervi it; ga.i they cheat.
Diyien,
And pinch their own to cover the deceit.

intelleftual tafte

lent blaft of wind.
She led calm Henry, though he were a king.

gulf.
Marching frotn Eden he thall find

1.

;

[Ftomgufter, Iflandick.]

5.

Harru.
Whirlpool;
Latin.]
[gurgft,
n.f.

yoGu'RGLE, 'V. n. {gurgoglinrr,

an Diet.

/}} iulby.ot

the ra<!eptacle of food

;

proverbially.
And cramm'd them till their guts did ike,

nature has made moll proper to this ait, and a
choice of it may be made according to the gufl and
Drydcn.
manner of the ancients.

and this is called r\\.t ^uiwale , whe-

Gush. ». /• [from the verb.]

/

The ftomach

2.

'

Turn of fancy
The

ther there be guns in the (liip or no ; and
the lower part of any port, where any
ordnance are, is alfo termed the gun-walc.

z.

acrid or poifoiious fubltance taken inwardly.

Tithlf-m.

relilh of true happinefs.

4.

the ftanchions which fupport the wallc

Gu'rgion.

B^eon'i Nunn al Hijlcy.
The inteftines or guit may be inflimcd by any

Dryden.

And all three fenfes in full g^J cnjoy'd.

Gu'nwale, or Gunnel

?.'./.

clofe to the belly, aud then the firings of jk"
mounted upon a bridge, that by this means tlw
upper firings ftricken ftioald make the lower relbimd'.

O.i theirs meer fcnfual ^a/?, and fought with fuily
D'yden't Failri.
pride.

Hith lurn'd his ball iagmfl-Mtt, and hn foul
Shall ftand fore chirjeJ lot the waftclul venccanct:
Sb.<k.fp. il^rji V.
That Ihjll fly with th«tr.

GuRGK.

A vial (hould have a lay of wlre-ftrings bclov,

Wliere 1o\t is dutv on the female fide,

ftioot Hones frpm ariillcry,
Tell thtjleafant prince, this mock of hij

tree ;

GUT

GUT

G U S

This lord wears his wit in his belly, and Uisgw/J
Shakr/^. TnUut and Orjida.
in his head.

Di^en,

To Gu'ttle. -v. a. [from^rrf.]
A low word.
low.

To Aval-

The fool did fpit in his porridge, to try if they'd
ihcm up,
L'EHrange,

hifs: they did not hifs, and l"o he gttitled

and fcalded his chops.

Gu'ttler. ».y; [from^«/<'.]

A greedy

cater,

Gu'rrui.ous.

ndj.

[from ^////a/n, Latin.]

In the form of a fmall drop.
Ice is plain upon the furface of the water, but round
in hail, which is alfo a glaciation, and figured in its
gultulous iekcal from the air. Brrtvit's Vulg. Err.

GU'TTURAL.

adj.

[gutturalis,

Latin.]

Pronounced with the throat; belonging
to the throat.

Th«

"

.

Tlie Hclrewj have affigned

kial,

G Y,V

G YR

G V B
•

which letten «fe la-

GTMNA'sTICALLY.flifo. [frOm/_^W;/fl/f;Vl.]

fcribed

Batcir.

Athletically ; fitly for ftrong exercife.
Such as with agility and vigour are not gymttajli-

orbit.

which dental, and wliich^K/oru/.

In attempting to pronounce the nafals, and fome
of the vowels fpiritally, the throat is brought to
labour, and makes" that which we call a guttural
Hc/Jcr,
pronunciation.
'

Gu'ttur ALNESS. . / [from guttural.]
The quality of Jjeing guttural.
Gu'twort. «./. [^»/ and tDort.] An herb.
Guy. n.f. \irom guide. 1 A rope ufed to
Skinner.
any thing into the fhip.
fsGu'zzLE. "v. n, {ixomgut, ot guji, to
gtittle ot gujllt.'] To gormandife ; to feed
immoderately ; to fwallow suiy liquour
lift

GYMNA'STICK. adj.

[vt;^w.x«« ; g_ym-

Fr.] Pertaining to athletick exerconfifting of leaping; wreftling,

nq/fii^r/e,

cife ;

running, throwing the dart, or quoit.

The Cretans wifely forbid their fervants g^m»<7Jiicit as well as arms ; and yet your modem iootmen
exercife themfelves daily, wliilft their enervated lords
yirbuthr.ct.
are foftly lolling in their chariots.

GY'MNtCK, adj. [yufAttixci
Such

as

;

Who while flic gt«a/a chats the doctor's pnife.

Gymnospe'rmous.

VEJiturgt.

No more her care Ihall Gil the hollow tray.

To fat the guxx/ixg hogs with floods of whey. Gaji.
To Gu'zzLE. 1). a. To fwallow with immoderate guft.
The Pylian king
Was longeft liv'd of any two-legg'd thing.
Still guakii»g muft of wine.

Dryjtrt.

difer ; an immoderate eater or drinker.

Gybe. a./. [See Gibe.] Afneer; atannt;
a farcafm.
Ready iu gyi'i, (juick-arfwer'd, faucy, and as
Sbakefpeare^s Cymbetlnc.

To Gybe. tj. n. I'o fneer

to taunt.

;

adj.

The vulgar yield an open ear,
AimI common couitien love to^M^nd fleer. Sftnfer.

Quick and more quick he fpins in giddy gynt.

Then falls, and in much foam his foul expires.
Dryden.

Having the feeds naked.
;

Fr.] Petticoat government; fe-

male power.

This effluvium attenuatcth and impelleth the
a gj""neighbour air, which, returning home
tion carrieth with it the obvious bodies into the

m

Bmvn.

eleflrick.

If a burning coal be nimbly moved round in a circle

with gyratiarts^ continually repeated, tlie whole circle will appear like fire ; the reafon of which

is,

Falling in rings.

ffli^'.

Ungartei- d, and down

Gy'necoCRACV. n.f. ['/vtutxcx^aTta gjnecocratie,

And to the Soiitli by thy dircftion fly ?
Of eagle in her gyrts the clouds embrace ? SaxJjt^
He falhion'd thofe harmonious orbs, that roll
SaniySt
In reftlefs gyra about the Artick pole.

Hamlet, with his doublet all unbrac'di

and

[yJ/.!.*©-

aa

No hat upon his head, his (lockings loofe

Gyka'tion. ». /. \gyro, Latin.] Thfe aft
of turning any thmg about.

Gu'zzLER. n.f, [itom guixle.] A gorman-

quarrellous as the wcazel.

irxfffiju.']

In

Ne thenceforth his approved (kill toward,
Orflrike, or hurlen found in warlike ^_>i«,
Remember'd lie j ne car'd for his fale guard.
Sfei^tr^
But rudely lag'd.
Does the wild haggard tow'r into the (ky,

gym- Gy'red.

Milton,

Rufcommon.

They fell to lapping and gitxxititg, till they buift

moving

gymnique. Fr.]

prailice the athletick or

naftick exercifes.
Have tliey not fword- players, and ev'ry fort
0( gymxick artifts, wrelUcts, riden, runners >

greedily.
Well feafon' J bowls the goflip's fpirits raife.

themfelves.

Bmin.

cally compofcd, nor aaively u(e thofe parts.

by any thing

that

the fenfation of the coal in the feveral places of that
circle remains imprefled on the fcnforium, until the
Nevton.
coal return again lo the fame place.

Gtre. «. /. [gyrus Latiiu] A circle de-

gyred to his ankle. Shaiefp,

Gvvfs.

Fetters
». /. [gevyn, Wellh.j
chains for the legs.
The villains match wide betwixt the legs, as if
Sbakejfeare.
they had gy^'i' on.
And knowing this, (hould I yet (lay,
Like lucli as blow away their lives.
And never will redeem a day,
Ben yonjhn»
Enamour'd of their golden gyves ?
The poor prilbners boldly ftarting np, break off
Knolles.
their chains and gyves.
Millox,
Gyrvs and the mill had tam'd tliee.
But Telamon rulh'd in, and hap'd to meet

A rifing root, that held his faftcn'd feet
So down he fell, whom fprawling on the ground.
His brother from the wooden gyves unbound. Dryd,

To fet-

To Gyve. ii. a. [frow the noun.]
ter ; to (hackle ;

enchain ; to enfnare.

Witli as little a web as this, will I enfnare as great
Ay, frailc upon her, do. 1 will
gyve the: ia thine own courcHiip,
Shake/f.

A fly as Ciflio.

H
HA

His

H A B

HAB

in Englifh, as in other languages,

a note of afpiration, founded only
by a ftrong emilTion of the breath,
vithont any conformation of the organs

of fpcech, and is therefore by many gramThe b in
marians accounted no letter.
Englilh is fcarcely ever mute at the beginning of a word, or where it immediately
precedes a vowel
as hou/e, behaviour
where it is followed by a confonant it
has no found, according to the prefent
:

;

pronunciation , but anciently, as now in
Scotland, it made the fyllaule guttural
as right, bought.

Ha, interjed. [ha, Latin.]
I. An expreflion of wonder, farprife, fuddcn queftion or fudden exertion.
You (hall look fairer ere I give ot hazard

:

What fays the golden chcft ? in let me fee. Sh.ik.
Ha ! what art thou (bou horrid hcadlefs trunk
Rwt'i jfii/tf Shift.
It ti my Haflingt

2.

An e^tpredion of laughter.

Ufed with

reduplication.

He faith among the trumpets ha, bat ^nd he
yob. xxxix, 25.
fmelleth the battle afar ofT.
Ha, ha, 'tis what fo long I wiih'd and vow'd
Our plots and dclufions
Have wTought fuch confafions.
That the monarch's a (Ure to the crown.

Haak. n.f. A fi(h.
being laid in prifon for the fame, may
have out of the King's Bench, thereby to
remove himfelf thither at his own coft,
Coicil.
and to anfwer the caufe there.

Haefrda'sher. n.f. [This word is ingcnioudy deduced by Minjhewn from habt
ihr dnfs, German, liaue you thii, the expreflion of a (hopkeepcr offering iiis waies
to fale.]

Vol. 1.

pedlar.

One who fclW

fmull waret ; a

AdJffon,

houfe, declared his opinion.

H a'b E R D N E «./. A dried fait cod. Ainf,
,

Ha'beroeon.
Dryden.

HA'HF.AS CORPUS. [Latin.] A writ, the
which, a man indiiteJ of fome trcfpafs,

!

Baron.

A baberdajher, who was the oracle of the colTeeI

'

I

Becaufe thefc cunning mcnve\\\c.thaberjaj»ff!'
ofl'mall wares, it is not amifs to fet forth theii^(hopJ

halbergium,

«. /.

\haubergeon, French {

Jow Lat.] Armour to cover

the neck andi breaft ;
piece ; gorget.

breaft-platc ;

neck-

And hilbcri lomc, and fome a habergion ;
Falrfaif,
So every one in arras was quickly dight.

The thot let fly, and grazing
Upon his Ihoiilder, in the palling,
Lodg'd in Magnano's brals babergeon.

HuJiltVt.

Habi'liment.

«./. [habiliment, French.}
Drefs ; clothes ; garment.

He the talrelTUna found.
Strange lady, in fo ilrange babilimenis.
Fairy ^ueen.
Teaching the fatyres.
My riclies are thefc poor habiliments.

Of which if you (hould here disfurnilh roc,
You4ake the lust and fubftmcethat 1 hare, ShaK
5

Y

The

HAB

H AB
The cltrgy (houU content thcinfelvtiwith-Wtirtoj 1
Svii/t.

(owni and other haiilimiirit of lirilh drapery.

HAC
Ihwirling this rule, or holding conformity to it, ee»
Hate,
cafions feveral habitudes of this rule unto it.
Itrefults from the very nature of things, asthef
ftaad in fuch a certain habitude, or relatioa to on*
South,
another.
As by the objective part of perfeQ happinefs we
underftand that which is bcft and laft, and lo whicb
all other things are to be referred, fo by the formal
part mult be undcrllood the beft and laft habitude of
Ntrrii,
man toward that beft object.
In all the habitudes of life.

of the earthi the being of antipodes, »nd of the'
habilablenefi of the torrid zone, arc abundantly def^'y.
monftratcd.

T« HABI'LITATE. -v. n. [baUliUr.YxJ] Ha'bitance. w./ [*a^Va/;o, Lat.] DwelTo qualify to entitle. Not in ufe.
;

Divers perfonj in the houfe of commonj were attainted, and thereby not legal, nor habilitate to ferve
in parlianKnr, being difabled in the higheft degree.
Bacon.

Habilita'tion. n. /. [from habilitate.'^
Qualification.

The things are but baiiUlatlfnii towards arms
and what is babililaiiiti, without intention and i& f

ling ; abode.

What art thou, man, if man at all thou art,
That here in defart haft thine habitance f
And thefe rich heaps of wealth do'fV hide apart
Fronvthe world's eye, and from her right ufance.
Spenfer'l t'ui y S^ueen.

Ha'bitant. 71./.
Lati^i.]

:

;

State of any thing
as habit of body.
Drefs ; accoutrement garment.

1.

2.

niilted

Into a madman's rags, t'afTumc a remblance
The very dogs difdain'd ; and in this babil
Sbakrfp. King Lear.
Met 1 my father.
If you have any juftice, any pity ;
If ye be any thing but churchmen's balils. Shakefp.

Both the poets being drelTcd in the lame Engliih
hatil, ftory compared with ftory, judgment may be
Drydea.
made betwixt them.
The fcencs are old, the hab!u are the fame
Dryden.
We wore Ull year.
Changes there are in veins of wit, like thofe of
Temple.
iabiis, or other modes.
There are among the (latucs feveral of Venus, in
differeni id^//j.

The clergy are the only fet

Addifon on Italy.
of men who wear a

dinindt babll from others.

Swl/i.

'

3. Habit is a power or ability in man of do-

ing any thing, when it has been acquired
by frequent doing the fame thing. Lode.
He hath a better bad babit of frowning than the
Sbakefp.

count Palatine.

4.

Cuftom ;

inveterate ufe.

The lall fatal ftep is, by frequent rtpetition of
ihe tinful a£l, to continue and pcrfiil in it, 'till at
length it fettles into a hxed contirmed habit of fin ;
which being that which the apoltle calls the hnilhing
of fin, ends certainly in death ; death not only as to
Souli.
merit, but alio as to actual infiidion.
No civil broils have fince his death arofc.
But fadion now by babit does obey ;
And wani have that refpeiS for his repofe,
As winds for halcyons when they breed at fca. Dryd.
The force of education is fo great, that we may
mould the minds and manners of the young into what
fhape we plcafe, and give the imprelBons of fuch
babiti as (hall ever afterwards remain.
Atterbury.

TV Ha'bit.

f.

a.

[from the nonn.]

lo

drefs ; to accoutre ; to array.
Prefent yourfclf and your fairprincefs

and imitated tliem in their ruftick dances. Dryden.
HA'Bl 1 ABLE. adj. [habilaile, Fr. hobitn-

Lat. j

Capable of being dwelt

in ;

capable of fuftaining human creatures.
By means of onr folitary (ituation, we know well

moH part of the habitable world, and arc ourfelves
haccn.
unknown.
That was her torrid and inflaming time
This is her babi'.able tropique clime.
Donne.
The torrid zone is now found habitable. Coivlry.
Look round the habitable world, how few
Know their own good, or knowing it purfue. Dryd.
-

^

Ha'bit A B

I,

r NESS.

u.f.

[from habitable.']

Capacity of being dwelt in.
The cutting of ihc KquinoAlal line decides that
contro\erry of the babitablenefi of the torrid zone,

Tliofc ancitat problems of the fpherical reundnefs

3

Was fuch dead authors could not give
fofe.

This IS more properly habit.
Mankind is willing to continue in a plcafing error,,
Dryden,
ftrengthened by a long habitude.
Thy ear, inured to charitable founds.
And pitying love, muft feel the hateful wounds
Of jell obfccne, and vulgar ribaldry.
The ill-bred queftion, and the leud reply,Brougbt by long habitude from bad to worfe :

Milton.

Ofde(tin'di(i<ii//.i/M».

Aft of inhabiting; ftate of dwelling.
Palaces,

For want of habitation and rirpair,

Denham.

Diflblve to heaps of ruins.

Rocks and mountains, which in the firft ages
were high and craggy, and confequcntly then inconvenient for habitation, were by continual deterration
Woodward.
biought to a lowerpitch.

3.

Place of abode ; dwelling.
Wifdom, to the end ihe anight fave many, built
her houfe of that nature which is common unto all
Ihe made not this or Uiat man her habitation, but

Muft hear the frequent oath, the direful curie.
Vrior,

The power of doiug any thing acquired

4.

by frequent repetition.
It is impolfible to gain an exa£t hatUude, without
an infinite nnmber of a£h and' perpetual praAice.
Drydtn,

Ha'bnab.

[hap ne hap, or nap; a$
•utictuld, 7:otild, or ne 'would; 'will nill, or ne
At
luill; that is, let it happen or not.]
random ; at the mercy of chaace ; without any rule or certainty of effeft.

Hooker.

dwelt in us.

God oft defcends to vifit men
Unfcen, and through lhe\t habitations walks

To mark their doings.

HABITATOR.

Milton

n.f.

Dweller;

[Latin.]

The fun's prefence is more continued unto the
northern inhabitants; and the longeftday in Cancer
unto us than that in CapricoriL unto the
Brown.
fouthern habitators.

is longer

[habitael,

adj,

He circles draws, and fquares,

inhabitant.

Habi'tual. atij.

;

Dryden,
But habitudes with thofe who live.
To write well, one muft iuvc frequent habltudetwith the beft company.
3. Long cuftom ; habit ; inveterate ufe.

n.f. [habitation, French;
hahitalio, Latin.]
I. The ftate of a place receiving dwellers.
Amplitude almoft immenfe, with liars
Numerous, and every ftar perhaps a world

from habit,

Fr.] Cuftomary; accuftomed; inveterate;
eftabli(hed by frequent repetition.
It is

With cyphers, aftral charaflers.
Then looks *em o'er to underftand 'em,
Although fet down babnab at random.
Hudibrar,
To HACK. <i;. a. [haccan, Saxon ; hachn,
Dutch; hacher,l!i. from acaj^c, an axe»
Saxon.]

To cut into fmall pieces; to chop; to
cut nightly with frequent blows; to,
mangle with unlkilful blows. It bears

1.

ufed for both good and ill.
Sin, there in pow'r before
;
now in body, and to dwell

Once a£lu3l

commonly fomc notion of contempt or

Habitual hMunt.
Milton.
Art IS properly an ^d^/ijya/ knowledge of certain
rules and maxims.
South.

piece wanting, though backed in

By length of time
The fcurf is worn away of each committed crime

No fpeck is left of their habitual ftains

Bcfnre Leontes :
She (hall be habited as it becomes
The partner of your bed. Shakeff. fFinter's Talc.
Having cahcd to his memory Sir George ViUieis,
and the doathes he ufed to wear, in which at that
lime he fccmcd to be habited, he thought him to be
Clarendon.
that perfon.
They babitfd themfclvcs like thofe rural deities

bilis,

Powers celeftial to each other's view
Stand ftiU confeft, though diltant far they lie,

1,

Dryden,
intcr-

courfe.
His knowledge in the nobleft ufcful art>>

Milton.

Officious ; but to the earth's habitant.

Habita'tion.

;

I

Variety we ftiU purfue.

z. Familiarity j converfe ; frequent

Or habitants of earth, or fea, or Iky.

:

The friend, the mifttefs, and the wifei

Dweller; one that lives in any

placi; inhabitant.
Not to earth are thofe bright luminaries

B,:con.

Habi'lity. »./. [AaW///, French.] fanow ability.
culty power
Ha'bit. »./. {habitus, 'Lzt\n.'\

[habitant, Fr. habitans,

:

;

malignity.

He put on that armour, whereof there was noon*

I

Dryden.
But the pure ether of the loul remains.
'I'is impofiibic to become an able artift, without
making your art habitual to you,
Dryden.

Sbakf^
I'll fight 'till

Habi'tuallv. e.t/v. [from habitual.] Cuf-

One fleurlfhing branch of his moft royal root
Is hackt down, and his fummer leaves all laded.

Internal graces and qualities of mind fanflifyour
natures, and render us habituallyho\y.
"V.

Atterbury.

a. [hahiti/er, Fr.]

To

By envy's hand, and murder's bloody .ixc. ShakeJJ>.
Burn me, hack me, hew me into pieces. Dryden,
Not the hack'd helmet, nor the dnfty field.
But Purple \*ells, and flow'ry garlands picafe. Addif,
But fate with butchers plac'd thy prieftly ftall,
Meek modern faith to murder, hack and mawl.

to ufe one's felf by frequent

accuftora ;

repetition ; with lo.

,

Men ate tirft corrupted by bad counfel and company, and next they habituate themlclves lo their vicious practices.
Tilhtjin.
Such as live in a rarer air are habituated to the
exercife of a greater mufcular ftrength.
Arbutbnot,

H A 'b T u D E n.J'. [habitado, Lat. babit ude,
1

.

French.]
I. Relation; refpcft j

from my benes my fiefti be hackt.
Shakefp.

tomariiy ; by habit.

To Habi'tuate.

fome places, be-

Sidney.
wraying fomc fight not long fincc paftird.
What a flave art thou, to hack thy fword as thou
haft done, and fay it was in fight
Shakefp.
Richard the Second here vtis bisck'd to ieith.

ftate

with regard to

fomething elfe.

.

Pope.
2.

To fpeak unreadily, or with hcfitation.
Difarm them, and let them queftion ; let them
keep their limbs whole, and /)jriour£nglilh. Shak.

Ja HACK. 11. n To hacliney; to turn
hackney or proftitute.
Hanmer,
Ha'ckle. ». /, Raw filk ; any flimfy fubftance unfpun.

We cannot conclude this complexion of nations
from the vicinity or habitude they hold unto the fun.
Broivn.

The will of God is like a ftreight unalterable rule

;

but the varioui comfonmcuu of Uie cr(<ituie, citlicr

Take the oari/^ of a cock or capon's neck, or a
take off one fide of the feather, and
than take the hackle filk, gold or lilver thread, ani
Il-alton.
make thefe faft at thi bent of the hook.

plover's top :

TiHA'CKLE,

-v.

a.

To drefs flax.
UA'cK,K£y.

^m A G

>T A

Ha'ckwiT. tl,f, [^<7i-ifwa/,Wel(h
Teutonick

;

haquenee, French.

;

A pacing horre.

I .

A hired horfe; hired horfes being nfually

neys are taken to hire.

h'FJIrangi,

Bacon.

To trufs the prey too heavy for his flight.

Does tor his hackney lady fufler.

know her fpirils are as coy and wild.
As hagard as the rock.
Sljjke/f,.
2. [Hager, German.] Lean; rugged;
perI

With his accumulative and hackney tongue,
That is no more than every lover

Rufc.

Huidhra:.

Or each new penfioti'd fycophant, pretend

To break my windows.

Any thing let out for hire.
A wit can ftudy in the ftreets;

A hackney coach may chance to fpoil a thought.
in

Hatvey.

•lan in his long hofe, riding ftioes of coftly cordwain,
hit bacjuelon, and his habergeon.
Spenfir.

•

Than a queen with this condition.

And to the South by thy direaion riy ?
1

enlarge

Ha'ddock. n.J.\hadct,

Fr.]

A fea

of the cod kind, but fmaJJ.
The coaft is plentifully ftored with

fifti

«•"•''•

Haft. »./.

[J3xj:r, Saxon; ieft, Dutch,
from To have or hold.] A handle that
part of any inftrument that is taken into
;

heckU, a witch, Dutch.]
^*'"' /'"''* "*"' '""?•"'="' prince,

and made a paufe

HirfoulArf^,rais-d their heads, anddapt their

hands:
And all the powers of hell, in full applaufe,
Flounlh'd their fnak.., and toft their
flaming brands.
Crajhav;,
.
.
,
,

A witch

;

an cnchantrefs.

Out of my door, you witch!
^ge, youpoulcat, youruan-3.

An old ugly woman

of the fame animal, cut
with fuct and fpices.

fraall,

Of the nature of a hag; deformed; horrid.
But on us both did ta^ijb age fteal
on.
adj. [(torn hag.]

And wore us out of afl.

Shakefn

To HA'GGLE. 1: a. [corrupted from
hackle
or ha<k.] To cut
to chop ; to maneie
•

;

yo\x iar,

Suffolk firft died, and York all
haggled o'tr
Comes to him where in gore he lay inlteep'd.
Shak
To Ha'ggle. 1: H. To be tedious in a
bargain ; to be long in coming to the

HA'cGLtR, n.f \ixQm haggle.]

price,

-.

.

ba<
.

ithakt//,.

Such affeaations may become the young;
But ihou, old hag, of ihreefcore years and
three.
Is Biewiog of thy pa/u in Cre«k
for t)i«e?

Drjjen

You are no furer, no,
Than is the coal of lire upon the ice,
^

Or hailjione in the fun.

A holy writer.

"^

The Jews divide the Holy Scriptures of the Old
Teftament into the Uw, the prophets,
and the hatiograpbii r,

Shakeff.

Hard bailftmes lie not thicker on the plain.
Nor Ihaken oaks fuch (how'rs of acorns rain.
rv

/

,.

Drydert,

r/-

Ha'ily. adj. [from hail.]

Confifting of

hail.

From whofe dark womb a rattling tempeft pours.
Which the cold North congeals to haily Ihowers.
°^'

HAIR, n.f [haj,n, Saxon.]
I. One of the common teguments
of the
body.

It is to be found upon all the
of the body, except the foles of
the feet and palms of the hands.
When
we examine the hairs with a microfcope,
we find that they have each a round bulbous root, which lies pretty dccn in the
flcin, and which draws their nourilhment
from the furrounding humours
that
each hair confiits of five or fix others,
wrapt up in a common tegument or tube.

parts

:

One that cuts.
2. One that is tardy in bargaining.
HA'ciOGRArH ER. «. /. [«y,®. and yei&o,.^
1.

vou

A par-

ticle or fingle ball of hail.

A mafs

always in a bad fenfe.

A fiiry; a ITie-monfter.

Z.

Ha'ilstone. »./. [^a/7and^«fff.j

entrails

Small

The mafter of the artillery did vi(it them (harply
with murdering hailjhci, from the pieces mounted
towards the top of the hill.
Hay-ward.

De-

commonly made in a Iheep's maw of the

To fet

Ainfixjonh.

HAG. n.j. [Jj^jep-e. a goblin, Saxon;
11

n.f. [hail dxid fiat. I'
(hot fcattered like hail.

of meat, generally porli chopped, and inclofed in a membrane.
In Scotland it is

Ha'cgish.

Dryden,^

Ha'ilshot.

Garth.

[(torn haggard.]

Ha'cgess. n.f. ffrom^_f othack.]

This brandiih'd dagger
bury to the haft in her fair breaft.

To Haft. T. as [from the noun.]

*.

And hail me thrice to everlafting reft.

For her the rich Arabia fweats her gum
And precious oils from diftant Indies come.
How haggardly foe'er (he looks at home. Drydtn.

the hand.
Dryien.
Thefe eitremii.es of the joints are the haft, and
handles of the members.
Drydrn'i Onfrefnoy.
A needleu a fimple body, being only made of litel;
but a fword is acompound, becaufe its hafa\
handle
is made of materials ditfereni from
the blade. Watti,

Knollei.
_,
Thrice call upon my name, thrice beatyourbrealJ,

for want

,

pilchards,

to call to.

.

it

Beneath the gloomy covert of an yew.
In a dark grot, the baleful iaggard ]iy,
Breathing black vengeance, and infecting day.
J.
Haggardly.
flA;.

Drydeit.

,

by a Turk, accompanied with a troop of horfemen.

IValmn.

So Garth has ufed

.

A galley drawing near unto the fhorc, was bailed

of underftanding it.

Carenu,

in a haft.

A hag.

3.

-

lute ;

Sandys.

the ramilh hawk, and the h.ir.

formedly; uglily.

herrings, and haddnckt.

I'll

„

.,
,
Hail
to the fun ! from wliofe returning
light

The cheerful foldier's arms new lullre take. Rnue.
To Hail. -v. a. [from the noun.] To fa-

my diftourfe to the obleryation of the

aires, tlie brandier,

Sbakefp.

Had we not better leave this Uiica,
To arm Nuraidia in our caufe >
AJdifan'i Caio

love

Once firll of men beJow, now fiifl of birds above.

Hhakeff.

i-

:

We

Receive thy new polTeabr
Milton'.
hWliail, he cry'd, thy country's grace and
j'

Docs the wild haggard low'r info the flcy,

you had better, &c. means

Miltim.

Farewell, happy tields,
Infernal world ! and thou profoundell
hell

A. fpecics of hawk.
i-

t,

'

Where joy for ever dwells! Aa// horrors! hail

I will be married to a wealthy widow,
Ere three days pafs, which has as long lov'd me
A» I hare tov'd this proud difdainful haggard.

You may fee the »ery falhion of the Irilh horfe-

the fame as, // luouldte betterfor me oryou;
Ot it -would be more eligible: it is always
ufed potentially, not indicatively nor is
hirve ever ufed to that import.
fay
likewife, it had been better or tvr/e,
I had rather be a country fervant
maid.

Long after to blell Mary, (ccond Eve.

Smith.

Haggard, n.f.
I. Any thing wild or irrclaimable.

"'

Thean^elAa;/

Now flulhing red, the dowii-call tagard eyes.
Or fixt on earth, or flowly rais'd

Sbak.

Beftow'd, the holy falutation us'd

Where are the confcious looks, the face now pale.

Some piece of armoar.

Had. 'I he preterite and part. ^^S.aiha've.

difor-

F>ryden.

[from the noun.

Ha/cqueton. n.f. [hajuet, old French, a

Haii, bail, brave friend

Say to the king the knowledge of the
broil.
Her fick head is bound about with clouds
It does not look as it would
have a hail.
Or health wilh'd in it, as on other morns.

L'EJIrangf.

Fearful befidcs of what in fight had pafs'd.
His hands and kagard eyes to heav'n he caft.

pbyfick derive

To prafiife in one thing; to accuftom, as
to the road.
He is long hacktuy'Jm the way, of men. Slak.

I had better,

A

to yoii.]
term of falutation now ufed
only in poetry; health be to you.
It
is ufed likewife to things
inanimate.

dered.

Muchufed; common.

Thefe notions young ftudents
from their hackney authors.

thei;efore. is the fame as fal-ve
of the
Latins, or iJyiaiVi of the Greeks, health be

into company toge-

Deformed with paffion ; wildly

3.

Pafe.

fell

If. xxxii. ig.

Haii. ijtterjea. [hoci, health, Saxon: hail.

A haf^ed cM\an of a wolt, and » jolly fort of dog,
with good flelh upon's back,
'^"-

Not quite fo well, however, as one ought;

little horfe.]

when a (hall haJi, coming down on the fored.

following paffage ; for the author ought
to have written hagard.

Pspe.

Milton.

To pour down hail.
My people fliall dwell in a peaceable liabitatioB

,,

To this fenfe I have put the

haps, iigly.

Shall each fpurgall'd hackney of the day,

v. a.

Fairy £^

She's too difdainful;

Three kingdoms rung

To Hacknev.

y-

JJotiAiL.
i>. w.

His weary pounces all in vain doth foend,

HnJliras.

frozen in their falling.
Lode.
Thunder raii'd with hail,
Hor/mii'd mthfirc, muft rend tK' Egyptian Iky.

irreclaimable.

As haggard hawk, prefuming to contend
With hardy fowl above his able might.

An hireling; a prottitute.

J.

Wild; untamed;

1.

And hackney of a Lapland hag,

.fi

thrull.

HAIL. «,/ [ha3el, Saxon.] Drops of'raia

Ha CARD. adj. \hagard, French.]

Who, mounted on a broom, the nag,
quell of you came hither polt.

Her coats tuck'd up, and all her motions juft,
bhe ilamps, and tlien cries hah! at ev'ry

How are fupcrftitious vatn'hag^ed oul of their

wits with the fancy of omens, tales, and vifians!

An expreffion of fuddcti

kietjea.

effort.

That makes them in the dark fee vifions,
HudHras.

And kag thcnifclves with appanciors.

taught to pace, or recommended as good
pacers.
Light and lewd perfoas were as eafily fuhorned to
malce an affidavit for money, as poft-horfes and ha!:k-

|.

IT AH.

;

I.

1.1

H AI

G

To Has. v. n. [from the noun.] To torment to harafs with vain teri-our.

hatieiifje,

*

They grow as the nails do, each part near
the

root thrufting forward that which
immediately above it, and not by any
liquour running along the hair in tubes,
is

as plants grow.

^lincy.

Sbale/p.

My «c«c of wooUy Ulr uocurls.

on the (km, be

Shill the differenct of ij'> only,

iiiternil conftitution between

a mjrk of » diffcrent

^"^'

md. drill?

a changeling

A fingle hair.

2.

N»ughtylady,
chin.
Thefe *«;>» which thou do'ft ravifli from my
SbahfJ^re.
Will quicken and accufe thee.

Much is breeding;
Siiatr/p.

And not a ferpenfs poifon.
fmall.
3. Any thing proverbially

But in the ellimatJon of a bair,
Thoudicft.

,

.

,

Dryacn.

the hair falling
4. Courfe; order; grain;
in a certain diredion

He i*» a curcr of fouls, and vou a curer of bodies
of your
Ihould fight, you go againft the «J/>
you

«*"*#•

protelTion.

Ha'irbrained.

aJJ.

^^^. ^
[This ftiould rather
un-

be written harebrained, unconftant,
Wild; irrefettled, wild as a bare.]

.

and all the Teutonkk
I.

1 '^a- 1'"- '4An balfim of land.
Many might go to heaven with half the labour

they go to he'll, if they would venture their induftry
*'« Jo'/'Mthe right way.
Well chofen friendlhip, the mo(V noble
Of virtues all our joys makes double.
Denbam,
And into balvei divides our trouble.
Or what but riches is there known
Which man can felely call his own ;
In which no creature goes his half,
HuJiiras.
Unlefs it be to fquint and laugh ?
No mortal tongue can half the beauty tell;
For none but hands divine could work fo well. Dryd.
Of our manufatture foreign markets took oft" one
amongft ourhalf, and the other ba!f\ttxi confumed

Shahjf.

gular ; unfteady.
,.,.,,
baitbram d
tefs leave this town ; for they art
llavei.

enforce them be mote eager.
And hunger
" will

Shaieff.

Caps on their heads, and kalbrrds in their hand.
l''>{>i.
Draw forth to combat on the velvet plain.
[hiilberditr, Freiich
Ha'lberdier. V.
f.

One who is armed with a

halberd.
T!:c duchefs appointed

him

a

guard of thirty

balbirdters, in a livery of murrey and blue, to

aiten i

h:s p<-rron.

*-»«"

,

,

"

of which

it is

The council is made up half out of the noble fa-

dartuJwt.

them than ufed to go with him.

{hair vCiMreaiith.\

A very fmall diftance

the diameter of a

Half the mifery of life might be extingulilKd,
would men alleviate the general curfe by mutual

faid that (he breeds in the

;

Seven hundred chofen men left-handed could
not mifs
ftones at an bahhrtitdtb, and

lling

Juig. XI.

16.

Her beauty in thy fofter Aa//"
Prior.
Natural was it for a prince, who had propofed
to himfelf the empire of the world, not to neglctt
Ajbutb.^-^t.
sijcfea, the y6a//" of his dominions.

Bury'd and lo(V, (he ought <o grieve.

Such fmiling rogues, as thefc, footh ev'ry paffion,
Bring oil to tire, fnow to their colder moods;
Rrnege, affirm, and turn their ^a/o 5" '«*''*
Sh.ii.
With ev'ry gale and vary of their mailers.

moll difaftrous chances.

1 fpokc of

Of moving accidents by 6ood and field
Of hairhrradtb 'fcapes in ih' imminent

•^*''*-

breach.

Ha'irbel. a./.

The name of a flower;

the hyacinth.
Ha'islcloth. n.f. [^fl/>and <-A//a] Stuff
made of hair, very rough and prickly,
it

compofed of reeds and pans of plants v.o«n

together,

Ctiv.

like a piece of ifl'Vr/i'*.

The
{hair and lace^^
which women tie op their hair.

Hairla'ce. n. J.
fillet with

Some worms arc commonly refcmblcd

to a

wo-

man's bairlace or fillet, thence called tenia.
Harvty.

Ha'iuless.

adj.

[from

S-mifi.

Wanting

incompetent and

the conftant courfe of the fun

fcalps

pf , ,
Sbckefpe^rf.

/

[from hairy]_ The
with hair, or
ftafc of being covered
abounding with hair.
Ha'iRY. adj. [from hair.'\
covered with
1. Overgrown with hair;
.

She his hairy temples then had rounded

With coronet of flowers.
Children are not hairy,
more perfpirable.
2.

Sbair/p.
for that their (kins

arc

Baron.
_

Storms have (hed
From vines the hairy honours of their head.
Drydfu.

Hake.

«. A

Akindoffifh.

Tlie coa(i is (lored with mackrel and bate.

Cjrfw,

Ha'kot.

«. /. [from haie.}

A kind of
Ainjiaorth.

iifh,

Hal,

in

local

names,

a caufe, as
the cquinoftial

is

derived

Ukc«/

equally.

2. It is

much ufed

in compofition to fig-

UxLt. adj. [This (hould rather be written

nify a thing imperfeift, as the following
examples will fhow.

from *.£/, health.] Healthy ; found;

Half BLOOD, v./. One not born of the

,/>«//,

fame father and mother.
Which (hall be heir of the two male twins, who,
by the diflcdion of the mother, were laid open to
Whether a filler by the balf.hlooi
the world ?
(hall inherit befoi* a brother's daughter by the whole-

My feely flieep like well below.
For they been ba/e enough 1 trow,
5/>««/fr.

And liken their abode.

Some of thefe wifcpartizans concluded the governbale men, to
ment had hired Iwo or three hundred
be pinioned,

if

blood?

not eiecuted, as the pretended cap-

Haif-blooded. adj.
Mean; degenerate.

^"i/"--

tives.

,

.,

Lad year wc thought him ftrong and bale
But now he's quite another thing
'till Spring.
1 wi(h he may hold oat
-v.

a.

[haleti,

Dutch;

To drag by force;

French.]

[half and

if'S'i

blood.]

The let alone lies not in your good will.
Nor in thine. Lord.
Swjfi.

haler,

to pull

violently and rudely.
Fly to your houfe

The plebeians have got your fellow tribune,
Sbalctff.
And hale him op and down.

My third comfort,

—Half-bUJcd Icllow, yes.

Sbaktffeare.

Half'cap. w./. Cap imperfcdly put off,
or faintly moved.
With certain half caps, and cold moving nods.
Sbakrfp.
They froze me into filcoce.
Ha'lfendeal. n.f. [half and bsel, Sax.]
Spenfer,

Part.

Half-faced,
Showing only

[half and facd.]
part of the face; fmall

adj.

Starr'd mod unluckily, is from my brealV,
Sbjh/fi.
Ual'd out to murder.
Give diligence that thou maycft be delivered
Lulce.
from him, left he /Wf thee to the judge.
He by the neck hath ial'd, in pieces cut,

Proud incroaching tyranny
Burns with revenging lire, whofe hopeful colours
Shai,
Advance a balf-facrd fun ftriving to Ihine.

.^nd fet me as a mark on every butt.
Thiilier by harpy-footeJ furies bal'd.

this man :

Sandys.

^W"f

•

drawn that way by the
balrib the
great artery, which then fubfidcth, and
This

finiftrous gravity ii

heart unto it.

Brc-!^„.

..

Who would not be difguftcd with any recrea(hould with blows
Locke.
be h.iled to it when he had no mind ?
though
(he people
In all the tumults at Rome,
another
proceeded fometimes to pull and hale one
the
about, yet no blood was drawn 'till the lime of
tion, in itfelf indifferent, if he

C.acchi.

faced ;

m contempt.

This fame half-faced fellow, Shadow; give me
he prclcnts no mark 10 the enemy ; thg
foeman may with as great aim level at the edge of a

At certain revolutions, all the damn'd
Are brough-.

Confiflingof hair.

;

go with love and fortune, two blind guides.
To lead my way ; half lolh, and iii^confenting.
Drydtit.

'^'•''h--

•

hair.

In part
I

partial

in

circle.

To HaI-E.
White beards havt arm'd thei_r thin and bairU/s
Againft thy majeffy.
IIai'riness. ».

1 .

Denham.
man can etpea eternal ferenity and halcyM
fo

DryJen.

reft.

Half. ndi:.

His ftomach too begins to (ail

If Molly happens to be carelefs,
And but negleCfs to warm her IjairUce,
She gets a cold as fure as death.

hair.]

Had the land fekaed of the be(t,
fhlf hii come hence, and let the world provide tl.e

hearty ; well complexioned.

worn fometimes in mortification.
It

DryJui.

^

No

fometimes has a plural fignificatjon

peaceful.

ftill;

days from

It

when a number is divided.

When great Auguftus made war's tempeft ceafe,
balc\m days brought forth the aru of peace.

H«
deadly

z.

Ha'lcyon. adj. [from the noun.] Placid;
quiet;

Addifon.

compalTioii.

and that there is always a calm
during her incubation.
fea,

.\m'drt our arms as quiet you fliall be.
As /ja/tyons brooding on a Winter fea.

AJJjTon.

milies, and half oat of the plebeian.

A bird,

,

Ha'irbreaotH. n.f.

^«'^<'-

fclvcs.

The king had only hisio/if riffrr, and fewer ot

Ha'lcyon. «./. [halrjo, Latin.]

The /

part.

A battle-axe fixed

to a long pole.
Advance thy W*«-(/ higher than my brea(t.

from halberd.']

dialcfts.

often not founded.]
A moiety; one part of two; an equal

is

Four tnavcs in garbs fuccinO, a trufty band

indecencies, and
lit judges to a iair of liltk
written.
knows better than any man what is net to be

if

HALF. V. f. plural halves. [)3ealp. Sax.

HA'LBERD. «./ \haUharde, French; hallebarde, Dutch, from barde, an axe, and
hale, a court, halberds being the common

Our balierds did (hut up hi^ paffage.
-, , ,
Sbakt/l>

.

.

and hales.

Shttte/f.

mot«

Or lefs than jull a pound ; if the fcale turn

He who pulls

«./. [from Afl/f.]

Ha'ler.

from the Saxon })ealle, i. *• a hall, a
In Gothick «lh fignifies a tempalace.
ple, or any other famous building.
Gihf Cam^tn.

weapons of guards.]

-Which, like the coutfer'j heir, hath yet !>«''».

If thou tak'ft

HAL

HAL

HAL

^'^'•f<-

Shakefp.

penknife.

Half-hatched,

adj.

[half and hatch.]

Imperfeaiv hatched.
Here,' thick as hailftones pour.
Turnips, and httf-halcb'd eggs, a mingled (how'r.
G/y-.

Among the rabble train.

Half-heard, adj. Imperfeftly heard

;

not

heard to an end.
Not added years on years my U(k could dofe

Back

HAL

HAL

Back fo thy natire iflandi might'ft thou fail,
Atti lave i^l/.lxar J the mt',incbo\y u\e.
Pcpe.
Half- MOON. n.f.
I.

HAL

^^ff-viiltin fleas, fo Utile and fd light.

When we have found the king, he that (irft

We fcarce could know they live, but that they bite,

on him,

ff^/lo, the other.

The moon in its appearance when athalf Half.wittkd. adj. [from
half-ivif.] Im-

Vithtt
"

Shake/p. Ki,,g Lear.

'

increafe or decreafe.
a..

perfeftly furiiifhed with underftanding.
I would rather have
truftcd the refinement of our

Any thing in the ligu re of a half moon.

Sec how in warlike murterthcy appear,
In ihombs, ar.d wedges, a«d ka{f-mxiis, and wings.

language, as to found, to thejudgement
tlian 01 half..iv!iird

MUimt.

Half-pen-.vy, n.f. -plMttil half-pence, [half
I.

and /fi-v>-.]
k copper coin, of which two make a
penny.

1.

perfonal

qualities,

I

Ha LI DOM.

Ye a great mailer are in yourdegree.
fcaft

Halituous. <7^'.

Shakr/p.

ous ; fumous.

and that the nobility here could not obtjin the
fame favour, and make our own baf.pence as we
uf.dtodo.

and baliiucus

2.

y^,/^,._

The

We

Half-seas over.

3.

I

It

is

the Lord.

;

HDrydrn.
I

ALF-Sichted.

adj.
[half mi Jifht.]
Seeing imperfcaiy; having weak difcernmcnr.

IS controverted
fome imagine it corrupted from alui, to him! others
iwmallom
let us go! and Skinner
from haller, to
draw.] A word of encouragement
when
dogs are let loofe on their game.

[half

Hemifphere

md ff here.]

Let night grow blacker with thy plots
; and day.
At (hewing but thv head forth, ftartaway
From this balffphre.
£„ y^„.

To view this brutal ait.

D

Half-sword. „./. Clofc light; within
the length ol a fword,
I

j,„

half

a doien of them two houn

together.

•'

middle.
Fearlef, he fee., who i, with

1„ the

Ever the fame, let fortune fmileor
frown
Serenely as he liv'd refigni his
breath •

Meets delhny balf.-u,jy, ^nr Ihrink.

fou
found
;

A bcecheii mart then in the hollow bafe

""'

They boifted, and with well-wteath d bal/er: hoift

To cry as after the dogs.

'rh»Tv>hiKUn,.

to his enemy.

To encourage with (houts.
If,

wh.lft a boy. Jack ran from

I.

fchool,

fond ot his hunting-horn and pole.

Uld John ballooihii huiinds again.
i.

To chafe with Ihouts.

Prior

j.

IVcall orlhout to.

-j.

».

[heal?,

Dry den.
Saxon, lame j.

healzan, to iimp.J
To limp ; to be lame.

And will flic yet debafc her eyes
Sliakt

Thus-iubirn broils the factions would engage,
Or warsofexii'd heirs, orff.reign rage,
'Till hailing vengeance overtook
our age.
Drydens
Spet:fcrhimfelf allifls ilie ohf .|etc,
And Sidney's vetfe bjlit ill on Rnman feet. Pope,
2.
flop in 1 march.
I was forced to halt
this perpendicular march.

To

If I f.y, Marciu;,

rialhome like a hare.

blockhead ; a fooli/h fcUow.

-,

On me, that halt and am mil'-lhapen thus ?

Though gout and age his fpeeU detain.

at death

_.

To Halt.

-^

Ma'lloo. f.a.

I.

>

Nor bearded anchors f for no (terms they fear.

me .,,
IhouLn
o..

•10

J

Chapman,

No bal/eri need to bind thefe velTels here.

Couiuiy folks hMm-d ind lioutcd
after
the arrant fl coward that
everlhe»ed hii

Shakeft.

virtue crowr
o»-n*d,

The tempett rage, and hears the thunder

a rope.
It is now in marine pronunciation corrupted to haivfer.]
rope lefa.
than & cable.

'^

Was never balloc'd to, i.or chcer'd
with horn. Si.,k.
2. 1 o treat asm contempt.

-/word m\ih

as Cornuto
many. Care-w.

Ha lser. ?/,/. [from hal;-, neck, and j-eel,

A cry more tuneable

am a rogue, if 1 were not ^ half

Half-way. ad^. [halfmd .^caj.]

ThisisW/ra/V^ horny name hath,
in Italy, opened a gap to the fcofTsof

A

To Ha'lloo. -u. It. [haler, French.!
1.

m the tiiroat or tongue.

iNot in ufe.

Some popular chief.
More noify than the teft, but crie» WAw,
And, in a Uice, the bellowing herd

;

boil'd

adj.

inharmonious

comes out.

Half bred imperfedi.
1 find I'm but a bj//.Jlra/n'd vWhin
yet.
But mungril-mifchievous for my blood
j

Nekton,
{hah, German; hafi
Scottifh, the ---.
'
'
neclc.J
.Soundin,g harihiy;.

''"''J'-

Ha'lseninc.

:

Bacon,

/.

Ifaw by leflenion, in a velfel of llagiiating
water",
three A^/i r, crowns or rings of
colours about the
fun, like three little rainbows,
concentrick to his

Mlli'n
anthems

Ha

h.ilf.J!gh:eJ.

Pght tranfmitd^ance than

lels

that ot twcnty-f« degrees, as to form
a /W-, about
the fun or moon ; which /ai, as
often as the hailftones are duly ligurcd, may be
coloured.
Neioiui

A fong of thankfgiving
Then fhall thy faints

m

A red circle round the fun-

If the hail be a little flatted, the
led may grow fo ftrong, at a little

Praife ye

which .he church militant feemj
ambitious to
emulate the triumphant, and echo back
the folemn
praifes and hallelujah, of the
celeftial choir,. Hoyle
;, LOO. mt.rj. [The
original of this word

The officer, of the king's houlhold had need
be
provided, both for his honour and thrift
they mult
;
look both ways, elfe they are but
«.

nounced haivm: which fee.

,v^,y„„

[.H' 6^n]

Addifin.

•

Ha'lo. «./.
or moon.

Sbak.

Iheds

Unfained Hallelujahs to Thee (ing.
Hymns ot high praife.
Singing ihofe devotit hymns and
heavenly

make a doable work of what's hall hnilh'd.

H ALF-SPHERE.

*

Halm. n.f. [healm, Saxon.] Straw; pro-

Cartb.

And courts ol princes.

I am kdf./eat o'er to death
And fince m-,lt die once, I would be loth
1 o

Addijon.

Halleld';ah.«./.

'

folly.
A wafting of flelh, without caufe, is fiequentlv
termed a bewitching difeafe j but
quellionlefs a mere
ballucinaiion oilhe vulgar.
Har-jci
This muft have been the ballucinaHonoithc
ttanfcnbcr, who probably miftook the
daih of the I for

With fmoky rafter?, than in lap'ftry halU

com-

'

Errour ; blunder; miftake ;

he publick room of a corporation.

Courtcly is fooncr found in lowly

Gran-ir.^

Hallucina'tion.«./: Shalludnatio, Lat.T

whole eftate.

1 hat light we fee is burning in mj hall.

lyain.

,

name.

With expedition on thebeadlecall.

in the no-

monly ufedof one half drunk.

j

Pope

,

gods abound.

.

To reverence as holy; halloaed be thy

Weftminfter Hall.

To fummon all the company to the hall.
\. The firft large room of a houfe,

A proverbial expreflion

for any one far advanced.

...

rr\t

many half.fholart now-a-days, and

have

as

rr-

z.

A manour- houfe fo called, becaufe in it
were held courts for the tenants.
Cjmtain Sentrv, my marter's nephew,
has taken

impcrfcftly

tions and opinions ol fome
pcrfons.

But nymphs and heroines, kings and

Boyle.

policffion of the ball houfe, and the

learned.
there is much conlulion and inconfulcncy

Milim
Then banifli'd faith (hall once again return.
And vcftal fires m hallo-w'd temples burn.
Drvden.
No fatyr lurks within this W/iTO'rf' ground '•

lighter than fpirit of

O loft too focn in yonder houfe or b.il/.

One b.ilf-pint bottle fcrvcs them both to dine
;
And IS at once their vmegar and wine.
Pope.

One

much

Acourtofjuftice;

1.

fourth part of a quart.

w. /.

^fow relfing, blefs'd and ballozu'd the
feventh da*
As refting on that day from all his
works.
But not in filence holy kept.

Lat.] Vapor-

Hall. n.f. fjjal, Saxon; halle, Dutch

The various ways of paying the falute with the

Half-scholar,

liquor,

Sbakefpearct.

Are not words duly ballov'd, nor my
wifhej
More worth than vanities yet pray'rs and
;
wiOies
Are all I can return.
Sbakc/p, Henry VI It
God from work

The

„"'"'•

The

I

am dead.

Wc fpeak of the atmofphere as of a peculiar thin

5^^,

H AL F-p N T. «. / [half mi pi„,.\

[halii:,s,

i

.,
My
prayers

IJubberd

^

of All-fouls.

You will wonder how Wood could get his majeftj's broad feal for fo great a fum oi
bad money,

b^lj.f,kc.

jj
Hooker,
that monftrous traitor t
VAord, I will hallow thee for this thy
deed,
And hang thee o'er my tomb, wiien I

She came adorned hither like fweet
May ;
Sent back like balimaf, or flioricll d.iy.
.'ibakc/p

There fhall be in England feven balf-peimy loaves

[half and ///r.]
fmall pike carried by officers.

neighbour's

houfe, but yet fa
a'\'%'"'
'^' '^""""h prayer, that he hopeth
it

1

I,
K
fhall
not burn.
I*. Cade
/-"J
t
».
..
Is
that I have Ham,

ft.
f. [hahj &om, holy judg
ment.crhahgandfl'tfm/', forladv.J
Our
bleffed lady. In this it fhould he
HaliJam.
By my haliHam, quoth he,

Ha lim ass. »,/. [halts and mafsA

common ufes.
Ihcker
man profefs that he

cannot be endured to hear a

/

notes

J,;fiv.

.

has the force of an adjeftive conjoined with any thing of which it denotes
the price.

I

commonly

it

H a'l B u T ». / A fort of fifh.

2. It

H A L F-p K E. », /.

t

half is added to any word noting

contempt.

Birdolph ftole a lute cafe, bore it twelve leagues,
and fold it for three half.finer.
Shaktfftare.
I thank you; and fure dear
friend, my thanks
are too dear of a halfpenny.
Sbikeffr^re.
He cheats fcr halffemce, and hedolfe his coat
To fave a farthing in a ferryboat.
Dryden.
Never admit this pernicious coin, no not fo much
as one Iingic half.ff„r.y.
Sxuifi.

Md for. penny.

When we fanflify or hallonv churches,
it is onI»
to teftify that we make
them places of publick refort; that we invertGod himfelf with them, anj
that we fever them from

Hwift.
Jack had p.ifTcJ lor a poor, well-meaning,
hajf«vw</, crack-brained fellow: people were
llrangely
''"'' '^''" '" '"""^''
Arbuihnot.
' '"-""•y'°
«7i.
\\'Tien

Toconfccrate; tomakeholy.

I.

of the women

poets.

m

Siaktfp.

ylddifoH,

i.

ToheutatCi to ft wd dubious.
How.

To fail

4.

A

•

His mighty camp, and, when the day return'd.

The counlry walled, and the Ajib/<-'i burn 'd. Dryd.

Here'* a piper written in hi» hand ;
hiiliing foniiet of his own pure brain,

HA'MMEK, »./. [hamen.Saxon^ haniaer,

Sbahfp.
Falhion'd to Beilncc.
All my familuis watched for my balling, faying,
lieradventure he will be enticed, and we Ihall prc%ail

1.

Jeremiah.

agaiiift liim.

Halt. «./. [from the verb.] Lame; crippled.
Bring in hither the poor, the maimed, the ia//,

Danifh.]
The inftrumcntconfiftingof a long "handle and heavy head, with which anything
is forged or driven.
The armourers.
With bufy b.immrrt clofing rivets up.
Sbaieffeare.

Give dreadful note of preparation.

i-fke.
nd the blind.
Halt. »./. [from the verb.]
1. The aiTt of limping; the manner of limp-

not without

many blows, and will

break the bed anvils and hammers of iron.

Every morning he

Without any halt they marched between the two
Clarendon.

•rmies.

«./. [from hall.] Hewrholimps.
Ha'lter. ». /. [);ealfzn«. Saxon, from

lifcs frelh to his

South.

his anvil.

The fmith prepares hit hammir for the iVroke.

That renowned

pillar

herefies, St. Auguftine.

Drudg'd like a fmith, and on the anvil beat,
Dryd.
•Till he had hammer' d out a vaft eftate.
inftcad of
I muft pay with hammered money
Dryden.
milled.
intelleftual labour:

HaywarJ.

;

commonly in

Wilt thou ftill be hammering treachery.

Sbak.
?
He was nobody that could not Aaarw^r out of his
name an invcntidn by this witchcraft, and pirture it

Dryien.

To

bind with a cord ; to catch in a noofe.
He might have employed his time in tlie frivolous
frogs.
delights of catching moles and haltering
Allerbury.

To HsLvt.-v.t:. [Uomhal/.halws.]

To

divide into parts.

[from half, hahes he'mg
the plural.] An expreffion by which any
one lays claim to an equal ihare.
Have you not feen how the divided dam

Some fpirits, by whom they were (lirred and guided
in the name of the people, hammered up the artiUayward.
cles.

To Ha'mmer.t. n.

To work

I.

Cleaveland

Ham. whether initial or final, is no other
than the Saxon ham, a ho']fe, a farm, or
Gihjous Camden.
village.
HAM. n.f. [ham, Saxon; hamme, Dutch,]
The hip the hinder part of the articu\
lation of the thigh with the knee.
The ham was much relaxed but there was fomc
;

j

;

And here is not a creature but mylclf,
I cannot do it ; yet 1*11

hammer on't.

Sbakefp.

To be in agitation.

Ha'mated

Tfl Ha'mble. t).

w.

[ftomham.]

Prince Maurice of Naffau, who had been accuftomed to hammocks, ufed them all his life.

To cut

large balket for carriage.
What powder'd wigs what flames and darts

the finews of the thigh ; to hamftring.

Ha'mlep. f.J. [ham, Saxon, and let, the
diminutive termination.] A fmall village.
Within the fclf-fame lordlhif, pariih, or hamlei,
iands have divers devices ol valae.

JJat^n.

To Ha'mstrinc. 1;. a. preter and

part.

hamjirung. [from the noun.]

To

pair,

lame by cutting the tendon of the ham.
Hamfiring'd behind, unhappy Gyges dy'd j
Dryden.

Then Phalaris is added to his fide.
Han for Aaxr, in the plural.

;

the /lizffa/f receives the fees due to the
king for the feal of charters and patents.
The fines for all original writs were wont to be
immediately paid into the hanaper of the Chancery.
Bacom,

(hip.]
Falls of the
placed onbannifters on the poop
and quarter-deck down the gang way.

Har.

Ha'nces.
of

I

!

Sivlfi.
What hampers full of bleeding hcaris
To Ha'mper. -v. a. [Ihe original of this
word, in its prefent meaning, is uncerI

Junius obfcrves that hamplyns in
Teutonick is a quarrel: others imagine
that hamper or hanaper, being the trcafury to which fines arc paid, to kam^r,

[In architedure.]

elliptical arches ;

The ends

and thefe are

the

arches of fmaller circles than the fcheme,
Harris,
or middle part of the arch.

The

fwcep of the arch will not contain abo\'«

fourteen inches, and perhaps you muft cement pieces
to many of the courfes in the lance, to make them

long enough to contain fourteen inches.

Moxob.

HAND. u./. [hanb, honb, Saxon, and in
all the Tcutonick dialefts.]

The palm with the fingers; the member
with which we hold or ufe any inftrument.

1.

A

tain :

Obfolete.

Ha'naper. ». f. [hanaperium, low Latin.]
A treafury an exchequer. The clerk of

A

fwinging bed.

Hook-

H AME. »./^ [hama, t>axon ;] The collar b)'
whicha horfe draws in a waggon.

On the hinder fide it is guarded with the twa
btmjirings.
IViJem,

Hammerhard is when you harden iron or ftecl
Moxon.
with much hammering on it.
Ha'mmock. a. /. [hamaca, Saxon.]

be contrafted from hand panier ; but
hanaperium appears to have been a word
long in ufe, whence hanaper, hamper,]

ed ; fet with hooks.

A player, whofeconceit
Lies in his hamjlring, Joih think it rich
To hear the wooden dialogue, and found
'I'wixt his ftretch'd footing and the fcalibldage.
Shake/p.

He

who works with a hammer.
Ha'mmerhar.d. n. f. [hammer and harJ. ]

Hamper, it. /. [Suppofed hy Mi/ijhr^ to

Pop'-

The

tendon of the ham.

Sbakefpeare.

Ha'.mmerer.«. /. \{tom hammer.]

The thigh of a hog falted.
Who has not learn'd, Irelh fturgeon and bam pye
oJJ. [hamattts, Laun.}

Hndiirm.

Releafe the lab'rers tor the caufc.

Ha'mstrinc. n.f. [ham znijh-ing.

fife-rails

Temple.

Are no rewards for want and infamy i

To perplex; to embarrafs by many lets
and troubles.
And when ih' are hamper' J hj the laws,

Ha'nces. »./. [In a

Vengeance is in my heart, death in my hand
Blood and revenge are hammering in my head.

tt'ijeman.

•onlrailion remaining.

Sbakeff.

to tangle.
Engend'ting heals, thefeonc by one unbind,
Streich their fmall tubes, and bamper'd nerves unBlackm.
wind.
;

Spenfer.

This prifon where 1 live unto the world ;
And, for becaufe the world is populous.

1.

to inveigle ; to catch witli

to be bufy ; in contempt.

Nor need'ft thou much importune me to that.
Whereon this month I have been hammering. Shak,
I liave been ftudying how to compare

inlfrj.

Runs to the fummons of her hungry lamb ?
But when the twin cries balvei, Ihe ijuits the firft.

Camden.

it accordingly.

a llrong ftring.

To Halter, f.*!. [from the noun.]

2.

ufed

to contrive by

To humble down thy hulband and thyfelf

CUavrlanJ.

Sandyt,

.

;

contempt.

Whom neither bailer binds nor burthens charge.

Halves,

To work in the mind

;

allurements.
She'll hamper thee, and dandle thee like a baby.

4.

Some hammer helmets for the fighting field.

He gets renown, who, to the halter near,

A cord

To enfnare

2.

Sandys

Were I a drowfy judge, whofe dlfmal note
Difgorgelh bailers, as a juggler's throat

%.

Wear under vizard-malks theirtalents.
And mother wits before their gallants ;

y To complicate

To forge or form with a hammer.

3.

L'EJlrange,

Until they're bamper'd in the noofc.
Hadiirat.
Too fart to dream ol breaking loofe.
They hamper and entangle our fouls, and hinder
Tiltr}!ftn.
their flight upwards. _

hammer of
Hakrwill on Providence.

Dryden.

•But narrowly efcapes, and buys it dear.

!

^^~~

His bones the hammer' d ftecl in ftrenglh furpafs.

A

as dogs.

We (hall tind fuch engines to affail.

of truth and

To Ha'mmer. •». a. [from the noun.]
1. To beat with a hammer.

2.

I

And hamper thee, as thou Ihalt come of force. Milli
What was it but a lion hampered in a net

Any thing deftruftive.

2.

half, the neck.
rope to hang malefaflors-

He's fled, my lord, and all his pow'rs do yield ;
And humbly thus, with halien on their necks,
Ejpeft your highnefs'doom of life or death. Sbai.
They were to die by the fword if they lUod upon
defence, and by the halU'U they yielded ; wherethan
fore they made choice to die rather as foldiers

O loofe this frame, this knot of man untie

That my free foul may ufe her wing,
Winch is now pinion'd with mortality,
Herbert,
As ail eniangl'd, bamptr'd thing.

_

D-yd.Juv.

Ua'ltik.

Doth ribbands.

Btoivn.

hammer and

to entangle, as in chains or

;

nets.

Bacon,
It is broken

A

£ach quarter to dcfcry ihe diltant foe.
Where lodg'd, or whiiher fled, or if for fight
MUtoi.
In motion, or in halt.

To (hackle

1.

'Ihe Huff will not work well with a hammer.

ing.
flop in a march.
t, \Jlte, French.]
The heav'uly bands
Down from a iVyof jafpcr lighted now
MiltOH.
In Paradife, and on a hill made halt.
Scouts each coaft light armed fcour

J.

wliich is commonly applied to the la*,
means originally to fine.]

He pitch'd upon the plain

Khgt,

i

>

to faulter.

;

HAN

HAM

HAM
Maw long halt ye bttweeo two opiniont

They hid bands upon him, and bound him band
Kntlles't Hijlo'y if the Turks.
and foot.
They band in band, w'xth wandering Itepsard flow.
Milton.
Through Eden took their loliiary way.
That wonderful inftrument the hand, was it made
Berkley.

to be idle ?

2.

Meafure of four inches a mcafure ufed
in the matches of horfes ; a palm.
;

Side, right or left.
For the other fide of the court gate an

this band,

and

HAN

HAN

and Ihjt band, were hangings of ififtecn cukiii.

to their bands,

Ex'jJ. uxviik 15

4. Part; quarter;

porlunities of rifing to thefe high

fide.

Ready payment *ith refpeft

AW

i. Ready payment with regard to the prayer.
Let not the waaesof any maa tarry with thee, but
give it him out of bund.
-Tq/,. iv. i^.

Time is the meafurc of bufmefs; money of wares

Let it therefore be required, on both
parts, at the
'''"^y* '° >= '" meannefs of eftate like
the Apoftles ; at the bands
of the laity, to be as they
who lived under tMe Apoftles.
Haoh'

be fafe.

b^d than to carry afar off.

rather (Irong at

Any light thing that mo-.eih, when we find

wind, Iheweth a wind at band.
aeal.

„

vvtien mineral or metal is

AJitif-m.

my own judgment than 1 can b -

Where are thefe porterj,
There's a trim rabble let in

Sbakcfp.

Power of performance.

12.

He had a great mind to try his band at a Spectator,

*»'"•

and would fain have one of his writing in my

A friend of mine bai a very fine

Additm.
hand on the

»>o''"-

AdJiJan.

13. Attempt; undertaking.
Out of them you dare take in bmrd- to lay open
the original of fuch a nation.

Sfenfir

m Irriand.

Manner of gathering or taking.

J4.

As htr Majcrty haih received great protit, fo m^y
flie, by

I

Are doom'd f avenge the tedious bloody

An intelligent being, coming out of the bandt of
infinite

perteA'ion, with an
ferency to be reunited with

averfion or even indifits

Author, the foorce

utmoft felicity, is fuch a (hock and deformity
in the beauiifiil analogy of things, as is not confident

01

IIS

wiih finite wilB )m and perfeaion,

Cbtyae.

Manner of afting or performing.

16.

*""' ''"'»"• ""' ^'"i double

,h7!'T7V

?
the reft ol ihe I'l"
habitable world,
is

before this.

He would difpute

Agency; part in adion.
Cod mull have fet a more than ordinary efteem
upon that which David was not thought ht to hav
S0utb.

_

hs ait of giving or prefcnling.

Ut Tamar drefs (he meat in my I'glit, that I
1

.V
k
.
thought
Ihey
could never be fecure,
ejcept the king were firft at
their mercy, were
willing 10 change the bandin
carrying on the war.
Clarendon.
. ,
.

^9-

J?a' antage

;

gain; fuperiority.

Hayvld

31. Tranfmiflion;

Shut.

conveyance; agency of

Uiicull d ascame toiawa'.

^>^- '• '8.

rr rr

to that purpofv,

Addi/on.

19. Aft of receiving any thing ready fw
one's hand, when it onJy waits to be
taken.
His power reaches no farther than lo
compound

md divide the materials that are made 10 his band

but can do ni!hing towards the making or deftroyne
«re atom of what is already in being.
L<ick,>lany, whofe greataeTs and foiiune were not made

the effea in his.

the ufe whereof is

and the yellow flieaf,
Alilicn

Form or call of writing.

41.

°''''"

I-°"l Haftlngs.

K"-^
Vj'^l?l'
Which
in a'V.'",'"'^,T."|
fet band fairly is
engrofs'd

;

Eleven hours I've fpent to write it over.
Shahrp
Solyman (hewed him his own letrers
intercepted;
afkiiig h:m
he knew not that band, if
he

knew

not that leal ?

r-

Being difcovered by their knowledge

ley's/W

happily efcaped.
my debtors do not keep their day

I miiH attend.

Cod

mam band,,
/y^,,.

And (hough vou war, like petty wrangling ftates.
You re 111 my l<,„d; and when I bid you
ceafe.
You (hall be crulh'd together into peace.

D.-ydm.
Between (he landlord and tenant iheie muft be
a

ouarrerof liie revenue of the land conftantly
in their
bands.
Licke.
U is fruitlefj pains to learn a languatje, which one
m.iy giiefs by his c-mprr he will wholly
ntglert, as
fooa as an approach to manhood, fe;ti.ng
him free

,t

"-'

of Mr. Co

I

Dcnbam.

pay,
'

/).-

Whether men write court or Roman

^

baZ,Zl

any other, there is fomeihing peculiar
in every

one's

r Jti.

writing.

32. roUcilion ; power.

,

A

Deny their hands, and then refufe to

convejance.
The laiutalion by the band oi me Paul.
r,

»

fwcaty reaper from his tillage
brought
Firft fiuits, the green ear,

II

She In beauty, education, blood.
Holds band wirh any princefs in
the world.

required

much lime ever to

1

Sacraments ferve as the moral inftrumentsof

o-nighl Iht poet's advxale I ftand,

And b« deferves the favour at my band.

!k
They who

30. Competition; conteft.
Dfjden.

17.

I

1W

Beny.nfin.

hands.

40. Catch or reach without choice.
The men of I&ael fmote as well the men of
ever*
city as the beafls and all (hat
came toij^a'. 7W«r.

^°"' """ *'>'' '"^ '^'"^ »''!'^h *<""/

peace, and proclaimed lioftiliry.

And while he hcav'n and earih defy'd,

tS.

confute. Hudiiras

^""'^ ^'^' <'"??"'<"& 'o make'his bandby
T rude
thofe
ravages in fn^land,

His glow ng cheeks, his ardent eyes

_

I. !P.ft'f"'.' °u

impo(i but your com-

too many A.W,, as well as
too
be hoped for.

Bacon.

nfed in oppofition to

28. .Scheme of aftion.

:

TilUtfon.

Demetrius appointed the painter
guards, pleafed
that he could prelcrve that AiW
from the b.irbaritr
and inlolence ol foldiers.
A diaionary containing a natural hiftory Dtydrn

i<,r>/

broke off hrs treaty of

»nia',d;n.

Vour wrongs are known

S6ai,/p

27. That which
another.

to

An aft; a workman; a foldier.

mands,
This hour IhaU bring you twenty thoufand

inditferent to the matter in
band which way
it.

and hi,
under the wcrif admimftration,

iiu/rd through all generations.

39.

I look'd upon her with a
fold.cr's eye;

26. Cards held at a pame.

from ruin,

;

what may not his lubjeds hope for
when he changetll
bund,,^ and maketh ufe of the
beft ?
S-wift.
38. Giver and receiver.
This tradition is more like to be a
notion bred in
the mind of man, than
Iranfraitted from hand

Thai Iik'd, but had a rougher talk
in band,
I han to drive liking to
the name of war.
the learned Ihall determine of

;

people

.1,

The mailer faw the laiJnei; rife^
Cban;'d his band, and chcck'd his jridc.

war. Dryd.

Sbuh/p.
2,. State of being in prefent agitation.

II

Agent perfon employed a manager.
The Wifeft prince, if he can favc himfelf

37.

°'''''^'

" o"rulual manager ol mirth '
w/^*""
What irvtls aie in bandf h there no
play.
To cafe the anguilh of a torturing hour ?

Coafute, ehar.gf t.,„Js, and ftill

oraftof manu-

" no*", yet not changing per.
•'^'o'''^^.^> ''>°"S''
ceivable diftai.ce with other
bodies, as fjft a- the
Ideas of our own minds do
naturally follow o.ne anoher, the thing fecms to ftaiid
ftillj as is evident
in
the band, of clocks and Ihadows
of fun-dials.
Locif.

24. State of Ijcing in preparation,

It

vice.

Cot hand upon his youth, to pleafurcs bent.
Damrf
36. That which performs the
olHce of a
hand in pointing.

and mercury.

23. Mutual management.
Nor Avords at bund, nor hiding darts afar.

a moderate band, from time to lime reap the

15. WorkmaniTiip; power
fafturing or making.

jr,f^,,

Flattery, the dang'rous nvirfe of

'^

to be generated, nature

needs not lo have at band fait, fulphur,

Mac, V.

3S- inHuence; management.

p

lorm.

-^

rt

fires of fancy, yet in
recreation fancy muft be permitted to fpeak.

not probable that any body (hould
effeft that
at a diltance, which, nearer
band, it cannot per-

life.

Thefe lazyknavcs! Y 'ave made a hnei*«i/'" fellows,

I

It is

Laboar; aft of the hand.
Alnafthar was a very idie fellow, that never would

Addijln.

no

A very great found near baiid hath ftruckenBacon
manv

TIiou faweft the cootradidUon between mv heart
and band.
iUng Cbar/es.

«»"•
.
11. Performance.

Bacm.

countrymen.

Z7,
u kept a l^riflrt hand on his
He
nobility, and chofe
rather to advance clerj:; men and
lawyers.
Bacon
However ftria a hand U to be kept upon
all de-'

Hhake/p.

He is at band, and Pindarus is trome
To do you falutation.
Sbakfff,.
The fight of Ins mind was likefome fights or eyes;

9. Aft; deed; external aftijn.

I rather fnfpefl

having a malicious mind againll his

"

nity wieft it 10 ignoble fenfcs. TijiU,', H'trthy Com.
It is cither an ill fi;n or an ill clfcct,
and" there
fore at no bunJ confident w.'tli humility.
Tuylar.

lieve a fault 10 be in thit poem, which lay fo
long
iwider Virgil's correflion, and had his lart band
put

Menelaus bare an heavy band over the
citizens,

Coufins, I hope the days are near at
band,
I hai chambers will

'^

ftrainf.

trumpet,

:

Method of government; difciplinel k^

34.

.u-".

bought at a dear baxd, where there is
_
Bmo;!.
S. Terms ; conditions ; rate.
With fi.-nplicity admire and accept the myHery^
but at no bmd by pride, ignorance, intereft, or va-

of cer.

Artutbnot:

Preffu re of the bridle.
Hollow men, like hotfes, hot at hand.

Make gallant (how, and promife of their mettle.

Fofe.

21. Difchargeof duty.

is

fet his band to any bufioeli during hit lather's

tain duties.

33-

<Jr (imple pride for flatt'ry makes demands,

Maydunce bydunce be whiffled off my i^rArai.

fmall difpatch.

10.

condition

When

22. Reach; nearnefs: as,
at hand, within
reach, near, approaching.
Your hulband is at hand, I hear his

7. Rate; price.
bufinefs

Addi/n

pofts.

Jupiter had a farm a long time upon
his bands,
tor want of a tenant to come
up to his price. V£/l,:
a Itatcfman wants a day's defence,
"r eniT holds a whole week's war with
fenfe,

to the re-

ceiver.
Of which offci the bafli acccpled, receiving in
one year's tribute.
Knaltet's Hijlory.
Thefe two muft make our duty very cafy; a con(Uerab'e reward in band, and the aflurance of a far
greater recompence hereafter.
Tiltot/on.

fro* 1 governour, (hall put him into
the bands of
his own inclination.
Loctr
Veftigales Agri were lands taken from
the enemy,'
and diftribuled amongft the foldicrs,
or left in the
bands of the proprietors under

20. Care; neceflity of managing.

on all bandi, that the people of
England are more corrupt in their morals than any
other nation this day unir the fun.
Sivift.
It is allowed

J.

HAN

had fufEcient qualificationt and an

Tiie way to teach tp write, is to
get a plate giavei
with the charaflcrs of fuch hand you
like.
J ockf
Conltant... (aw that the bund
writing agreed with
the contents ol the letter.

Addihn

prelent thefe ihougKts in an ill hand;
but fcho^
are bad penmen, we Icldomregard the mechanickpartof writing.
/>//
I

i-irs

They were wrote on both

fides,

''"'^-

42.

and in a fm°^i

ArMbnct.

yUttD n,,r /j,aj. Negligently; raftilyj

Without feeing wh;it one docs.
So many ftrokts of the alarum
bell of fear and
aw .itiiig to other nations, and the facility
of the
ti;l -i, which band over
head, have ferved their
turn

doih ring ibc p«l fo joutU the louder.

Bacon.

A couinry

a fmall handbajket to carry

Thus 'tis, fays a paffcnget, when people will

Hand-bell. n. f.

be doing thines band tvir beaj, without either fear
L'Eftr^ntf.

or wit.

43.

Hand to Hand.

Shaiffp.

He ilTues, ere the hght, his dread command,

-^'yA border of an handireadlb round about, ireadtb

con-

The eaftern people determined ihe'ic band

by the breadth of barley-corns, fix making
Arbutbnol.
and tvieniy.four i hand's ireadib.
a digit,

jointly.

Had the fea been Marlborough's element, the
war had been beftowxd there, to the advantage of
in
the counlry, which would then have gone bund

\\s'yiO\LO.adJ.[itomha>td.\
hand left or right.
1. Having the ufc of the

Sv.'\fl.

hand with his own.
4c. Hand /» Hand.

Fit; pat.
As fair and as good, a kind of bani

Many
in

47. To bear in

Into their inmoft bow'r

H'ander.h. /. [from /j(7w/.j

I.'Eftrange.

To keep lu ex-

A rafcally yea-forfooth knave, to bear in band,
Shakeff.
and then (iand upon fecurity.
N d and Glove. To be intimate
To
fc
jfi.
and familiar; to fuit one another.
To Hand. 1: a. [from the noun.]

Ha

A right t'inierpret Or would they alone.
Who brought the prefent, claim it for their own ?
:

Dryden.

[^-a^/and /<J/?.] Hold;
Obfolete.
cuftodyhim fly.
If that Ihepherd be not in handfa/l, let

Ha'ndfast. »./.

To give or tranfmit with the hand.
ludaswas not far off, not only becaufe he dipped

near that
in the fame di(h, but becaufe he was fo
Bro-urn.
our Saviour could barj tlie fop unto him.
that is
1 have been flicwn a written prophecy

2.

Shakefpearc,

Addijon.

handed among them with great fccrecy.
guide or lead by the hand.

Ha'ndfu',. n,f.\hani vciii fuU.'\
or con1. As much as the hand can gripe

To

Angels did hand her up, who next God

tain.
the fide of Rofa1 law a country gentleman at
mond's pond, pulling a handful e>i oats out of his
pocket, anJ gathering the djcks about him._ Addif.

dwell.

Ounne*
pafs from a
fate and infenfible degrees he will

By

llcp in
boy to a man, which is the moft hazardous
this therefore Ihould be carefully

life:

over it.

an
of water, and knap the tonjs together about
hindfnl from the bottom, and the found will be
more lefounJing Irom theveffclof filverihan that of
Bacon.
wood.
The peaceful fcabbard where it dwelt.
The rancour of its edge had felt ;
l"or of the lower end \vio handful
Hudibias.
It had devour'd, it was fo maniul.

Locke.

:

•Tis then that with delight I rove.

Upon the boundlefs depth of love

Prior.

A fmall number or quantity'.

3.

He could not, with

^

K. To tranfmit in fucceflion, with iloavn;

They had not only a tradition of it in general, but
remarkable particular acci-

downward

dents of it likewife, which they banded
IVooduaid.
to the fucceeding ages.
fecurirg thefe monuI know no other way of
to be
enough
and making them numerous

As much as can be done.

4.

Being in poffeffion of the town, they had their
handful todefend thcmfelvcs from firing. Raleigh.
flow andcafy galHanb-gallop.* ./.

A

lop, in

ments,

and only revealed to the //// artis, 'till fome
appean, who collefls thefe disjointed
fyftcm.
propofitions, and reduces them into a regular
^ '^
Aiitibnol.

Hand-gun.*./.

handed
and ii'.f." cy to hear, were incapable of being

Hand is much ufed in compofition for
that which is manageable by the hand, as
a hnndjaix: ; or borne in the hand, as a

guni, and mufltets.

1

n. f. k frame on which
any thing is carried by the hands of two
men, without wheeling on the ground.

Particular members of convents have excellent
mechanical geniufes, and divert themfelves with
architeflure, gardening, and
painting, fculpture,
Addifon.
feveral kinds ol handicrafts.

A handbarrovj, wheelbarrow, fliovel, and foade.
Tujer.

D/lortimer.

Hand-basket. « /.

A portable balket.

Manual occupation ; work performed by
the hand.

Ha'ndbarrow.

Set the board whereon the hive (landeth on a
iianjiarrow, and carry them to the place you intend.

Camden.

Ha'ndicraft. ft. /. [/:and and craft.]

haniharro--w.

2.

Shakeff,

Bacon.

as fmiths, mafons, and carpenters.

The profanencfs and ignorance of bandieraflfnten,
fmall tiadcrs, fetvants, and the like, are to a degree,
Sviift.
very hard to be imagined greater.
It is the landed man that mainta'ins the merchant
i'wi/f.
handicrafifman.
and Ihopkeeper, and
_

Ha'ndily.a./'u. [from battJy.] Withflcill;
with dexterity.
Ha'ndiness. «./ [from i&«»^.] Readincfs ; dexterity.

Ha'ndiwork.

n.

/ [hantfy and wari.]

Work of the hand

;

produft of labour

manufafture.
In general they are not repugnant unto the natural
which wilheth to the works of his own
hands, in that they are his own handiviork, all hapwill of God,

pinefs; although perhaps, for fome fpeclal caufe in
our own particular, a contrary determination have

feemed more convenient.

As

proper

men

as ever trod

Hooker.
upon neats-Ieather

Shakcfp.
have gone on my handituork.
The heavens declare the glory of God, and the
Pfalms.
firmament flieweth his A<j»</;'w<>7*.
He parted with the greateft bleffing of human
L'Eflrange.
nature lor the handitvork of a taylor.

Ha'ndkerchief. «./. [hanei and kerchief.]

A piece of filk or linen ufed to wipe the
face, or cover the neck.
Siie found hor fitting in a chair, in one hand
holding a letter, in the other her bandkcrcHtf,
which had late y drunk up the tears of her eyes.
Sitiny.
He was torn to pieces with a bear : this avoucHea
the ftiepherd's fon, who has not only his innocence,
but a handkeichief and rings of his, that Paulina
Shake/peare.
knows.
The Romans did not make ufe of handkerchiefs
the
garment,
border
of
to wipe
or
but of the laciiiia

Arbuibnot.

their face.

To Ha'ndle. o". <7. \handelen, Dutch, from
hand.]

To touch

to feel with the hand.
;
The bodies which we daily Lmdle, make us per-,

1 .

ceive, that wliilft they remain between them, they
hinder the approach of the part of our hands that

Lscke,

prefs them.

To manage

2.

That

;

to wield.

fellow handles bis bow like a crowkeep.'r.

Shakefp.

To make familiar to the hand by frequent touching.

An incurable ftiynefs is the ffneral vice of the
liilh

A man who lives by manual labour.
The cov'nants thou (halt teach by candle-light.
When puRing fmiths, and ev'jy painful trade
0( handicraflt, in peaceful beds are laid. Dryden.
The nurfcricsfor chililrenofoidinarygemlcmen

hoifes,

and is hardly ever fcen in Flanders,

becaufe the hardnefs of the winter forces the breeder*
there to houfe and bandit their colts fix monthj

A gun wielded by the

or ravenous birds, asculverincs orcolubrines; others
in other refpeits, as cannons, demicannons, band-

^"f'.

virtue is not regarded in handi-

Sbak.fp.
in Athens.
The principal bulk of the vulgar natives are tiUen
of the ground free, fcrvants, and handle raftfinen ;

3.

hand.
Guns have names given them, fome from ferpenis

One would think a (lory fo fit for age to talk of,

I

He has fimply the beft wit of any bandierafifmaH

Dryden.

great genius

_

O mifcrable age
caftsmen

Ovid, with all his fweetnefs, has as little variety
of numbers and founds as he : he is always upon a
hand-gallop, and his verfe runs upon carpet ground.

ters,

one employed

which the hand preffes the bridle

to hinder increafe of fpced.

Addlfon.
Arts and fciences confilV of fcattcred theorems and
the maferadiices, which are banded about amongft

kandcd dav.-n to future ages.

;

in manual occupation.

fuch n handful o( mm, and

without cannon, propofe reafonably to fight a battle.
Clarendon.

to deliver from one to another.

doivn to us.

four inches.

full

To

even of fevcral the moft

a hand's breadth ;

Take one vcffcl of filvcr and another of wood, each

.

feize ; to lay hands on.
3.
Let him, that makes but ir.fles of his e)-es,
on mine own accord, I'll off. Sbak.
rirft hand me
hand.
4. "To manage ; to move with the

1 blefs my chains, I hand my oar.
Nor think on all 1 left on llioar.

A palm;

2.

watched, and

a 'voune man with great diligence banded

Tranfmu-

ter ; conveyor in fucceflion.
They would alTume, with wond'rous art,
Tiiemlelves to be the whole who are but part.
Of that vaft frame the church ; yet grant they were
The handert down, can they from thence infer

peftation ; to elude.

1.

Milton.

Handed i\K-j 'nM.

band to tnoulb, and ra.ike

Hand.

«"'»"'-

With hands joined.

2.

As want requires.

I can get bread from
even at the year's end.

whom

partis ftrongeft.

comparifon, had been fomething loo fair and too good
Sbjic/f.
for ahy lady in Britanny.

46, H A N D /o mouth.

weakly
are right banded, whofe livers are
that
ufe the left, in

coniliiuted : and many

hand

A manufafturer

man.]
is

the breadth of the hand ; a palm.

Dryicn.
_

In union;

Handicra'ftsman. «./. [handicraft and

A fpace equal to

Hand-breauth. 17./

That flings afar, and poinards banJ to hand.

44. Hand in Hand.

Morlimtr.

the principal
as in
ciufe of the loudnefs or foftnefs of founds,
Baron.
ringing of a band-bell.hirier or fofter.

In fingle oppolition, hinJ in baifd.

He banifti'd from (he field.

them in.

A bell rung by the

hand.
The (Irenglh of the perctiflion

Clofe fight.

He did confound the bed part of an hour.

and btudlcrafi: art managed after the fame manne
Gulliver's Travelt.

You muft h«»e woollen yam to tie gfsfts with, and

A country fellow got an unlucky WmWe fwm t
tree :

HAN

HAN

HAN

temple^

every year.

To treat; to mention in writing or talk.

4.

He left nothing fitting for the purpofe
Untouch'd, or flightly bandied in difcourfe. Shakefp,
Her eyes, her hair, her cheek, her gait, her voice.
Shakefp,
Thou handlefl m thy difcourfe.
l.eavlng to the author the exa^ handling of every
and labouring to follow the rules of
particular,
1 Mac,
abridgment.
•
Of a number of other like inttances we (hall fpeak
more when we handle the communication of founds.
Bacon,
By CuiJus Ubaldus, in his treatifc, for the explication

01

thi<

inflrument, the fubllelies of it are

largely and excellently handled.

Ifilkins's Dadalat,

In anai^ument, bandied that briefly, every thing
Atteriitry.
cannot be faid.

5.
*

To deal with; toprafticc.
The,

HAN

HAN

They that handle the law know me not. yer. U.S.
6. To treat well or ill.

nor fulFer the pilot to (leer.

Talbot, my life, my joy, again return'd I
How wert thou hjnduj, being pri(i}ner ? Siaiefp.
Tiicy were well enough plealed ro be rid oi an

Ha'mjsaw. «./.

Shttkejpejre.

Can gripe the facred bandit of our Iceptre,
Unlefs he do profane, fteal, or ufurp.
Sbahfp.
Fortune lurncth the bundle of the bottle, whith
is eafy to be taken hoM of; and after Che belly,
which is hard to grafp.
BacM.
There is nothing but hath a double battdte, or at
laall we have two hands to apprehend it.
Taylor.
A carpenter that had got the iron work of an aif,
begged only fo much wooJ
would make a handle

To Ha'ndsi!!.. f.

Sbakrff.

A maid that waits at

a/j.

ready, dexterous.]

See how yond jnllicc rails upon yond fimple thief!
Hark in thine ear change places and handydandy,

Ready

which is die juftice, which is the thief ?

;

:

gainly ; convenient.

For a thief it is fo bandfjme, as
was firtl invented for him.
z. Beautiful with dignity ;

may feem it

quite ("0 ancient as hanJydan.^y.

3. Elegant ; graceful.
Thatealinefs and ^d/u^n; addrefi in writing is
hardeli to be attained by pcrfooi bred 10 a meaner
way.
Felton.

Ample

5.

Generous; noble:

;

liberal :

I.

Fairfax

handmaid to divi-

^"'n.

2.

Millon.

Thofe of my family their raaftcr flight.
Crown dcfpicabie in iny handmaid 'i light. Sandyi.
By viewing nature, nature's handmaid. Art,
Makes mighty things from fmall beginnings grow';
I'hus filheshrll to (hipping did impart,
Their tail the rudder, .ind their head the prow.

Urydtn.
Since he bad placed his heart upon wifdom; health,
wealth, viflory and honour (hould always wait
on
ber as her handmaidt.
Addi/on.

Then criiicifin the mufe't handmaid prov'd,
Todrefc her charms and make her jnoie bclov'd.
a'.m D

M1

1.

L . »./. [il:a>iJ and W/.

moved by the hand.

A niiil

J

Oft the drudging afs is driv'n with toil
Returning lale, and loadcn home with gain

Hands off.

A vulgar phrafe for keep off

They cut a ftag into parts ; hut as they were
tering upon llie dividend, han.1,

¥f
«A
NDSAIL8. «._/:

hand.'

-

Vot. I.

ihclLm.

Dry den.

I

•

off, fays

en-

Sails

managed by the

He haih commilTion from thy wife and me
To hang Cordelia in thepnfon.
Sbake/f.
Hanging fuppofes human foul and rcafon
j
This animal's below committing trealon

Beautifully ; gracefully.
Elegantly; neatly.

:

A carpenter, after he hath fawn down a tree, hatli
wrought it bandjumely, and made a veUel thereof.
li'i/dom.

4. Liberally ; generoufly.
I am finding out a convenient
place for an almshoufe, which 1 intend to endow very kandfumety
for a doien fuperannujted hulhnndmen.
Addi/on,

Ha'ndsomeness. n.j: [from haad/ome.^

Shall he be bang'd, who never could rebel
That's ajirefcrmeut for Architopbel.
Drydtn,
difplay ; to fhow aloft.
4.
This unlucky mole milkd feveral coxcombs and
j
like the hanging out of falfe ctilours, made
fome of
them converfe with Rofalinda in what they thought
thcfpiritofherparty.
Addl/on.
.'

To

,

J.

Beauty ; grace ; elegance.
Accompanying her mourning garments with
dolelul countenance, yet nciihcrforgcitiug

Ha'ndvice. »./. {handinii -vlc^.]
to hold fmall work in.

a

iandj'ome.

Ecclef. xit. aS.'

The beauties of this place fliould mourn ;
Th' immortal fruits and flow'rs at my return
Should /dffj their wither'd heads j for fure myhreaft

Isnow more pois'iious.

A calt or form of writing pccCiliar to each
hand.
That you beat me at the mart, I have your band

Dryden,

The rofe is fragrant, but it fades in time
The violctfwect, but quickly pad the pi me ;
i

;

White lillies hang their heads and (bon decay

A vice

Ha'sdwritinc. »./. [tartd fmd tvritirrg.]

To let fall below the proper Ctuation ;
to decline.
There is a wicked man that hangeth down hi*
headl'adly ; tutinwardly he is full ot deceit.

nejs'm her mourning gareitiits, nor fweelnefs in her
dolcfuloouutenance.
Sidney.
For hanjfimene/t' (ike, it were good you had
the upper glafs upon a IJail.
Bacn.
la cloths, cheap hand/tmenefi iolh bear the bell.

to Ihow.

Sandys.

.

To cnoak and kill by fufpending by the

neck, fo as that the ligature intercept*
the breath and circulation.

;

And whiter fnowiii minutes melts away,
The cheerful birds no longer fing

olyden.

Each drops his head, and bangs his wing.

Trior.

j

''

lorbear.

To place without any folid fupport.

»pi

3.

Herbert.
Perfons of the fairer fex like that handfomenefsiax
which they find themfelves to be the moil liked".
Btyle.

Ol bartcr'd pitch, and hMndmill, for the grain.

j

Vcfn'd wiih clear fprings, which ambient fcas repair.

j

,

H

Strangely vilited people he cures

Thou all things haft of »othing made.

Becomes unhandfome, hand/omely to '£:ape. It'itller.
3.

To

That hanf^'Jl the folid earth in fleeting air,

Donne.

ihape.

Milli.tr.

And azure wings that up they flew fo Jrcll,
And fpeak the uuth of thee on glorious (hemes

z<

Under it he may cleanly convey any fit pillage that
Cometh handftmely in his way.
Sprnfcr,
When the kind nymph, changing her faultldi

Hath fii'd her polilh'd car.
Her lleepiag Lord with handmaid \uaf attending.
Lore led them on; and Faith, who knew thtm bell
'Vi\j handmaids, clad them o'er with purple beams

'

.,

Conveniently j dexteroufly.

HeaTen's youngeft teamed ftar

preter.

Put on with holy prayers.
Shake/*.
His great army is utterly ruined, he himfelf (lain
in It, and his head and right hand cut
off, and bunr >
up before Jerufalcm.
S^uib.

,

Ha'ndsomelv. adu. [ from handfomt. ]
1.

a.

fufjiend ; to faften in fuch a manner
as to be fuftained, not below, but above,
_

Xi 3. handjome z&mw.

Far his device in batid/tmingi fuit
To judge of lace he hath the beft conceit.

-v.

Hanging a golden (lamp about their necks.

as, a handjome fortune.

Him all repute

Ariutb. and Pope.

and part. pall.
hanged 01 hung, anciently ho>ig.\ [hanjan,
Saxon.

houfe, and, (inding his wife vtry handfsme, turned
the good man outof his dwelling.
Addij'an.

4.

;

Sbakefpeare,
Neither crofs and pile, nor ducks and drakes, are

Spenfer

graceful.

She gave llie knight great thanks in little Tpeech,
And laid ihe would his ban Jmaid foot remain.

Before tbejudge.

it

A great man entered by torte into a peafant's To HANG.

To render elegant or ne«.

for that true ethicks are hut as a
nity and religion.

children change hands and places.

Dutch,

[handfaem,

Suy, let thy humble handmaid fpeak 10 thee. Shah.

I will newer fetpoliticks againft ethicks, efpccially

more hanjy than the long jointer.

Ha .•vdydandy. n. f. A play in which

Dryd.

To Ha'nbsome. 1;. a. [from the adjective.]

Brave Buigucdy, undoubted hope of France

is

Muxm,

\ni battd/rl fate before you.

a hand.

Crying oa Hedtor.

er, and

you

How eafy 'tis to die, by my example,

Ha'ndless. <7,^'. [handiRAle/s.} Without
Speak, my Lavinia, what accurfed hand
lii^tniie xhce bunJlefi r
Shakeh.
His mangled myrmidons,
Nofcleff,iaW/</j, hack't and dipt, come to him

3., Convenient ; ready to the hand.
The lirikc-block is a plane (horter than the joint-

n timorous deer he handfcU his young paws.

HA'NDSOME.

flcilful.

The fervants wafh the platter, fcour the plate j
And each is/ja«</y inbis way.
Dryd.

And leaves the rugged bear lor lirmeV claws. C.j-u.-l,;:
I *d Ihow

dexterous ;

Driden.

Herieri.

thing the firft time.
I

;

She llript the (talks of all (licir leaves the 'oeft
;
She cull 'd, and them with i'J«'{> care ihe dreft.

To ufe or do anv

a.

Ready

2.

Thou art joy's band/el; heav'n lies flat in thee,

I.

They overturned him in ail his interefts by the
fure but hli\ handle of his own good nature. South.

Xmlles.
Both pat tics now were drawn fo clofe,
Almoll 10 come to bandy blows.
Hitdlirat.

Utinker.

L'EJlr,wge.

That of which ufe is made.

to hjmiy blows.

It is not ufed, except in the
dialedl of trade.
The apoftlcs term it the pledge of our inheritance,
and the ianfel or eameft of that which is to come.

Of Hone the ianjlet o( my knives are made,
Yet no ill tallc from thence afTcfts the blade,
Or what 1 carve ; nor is there ever left
Any unfav'ryhaut-gouft from the haft.
Drydcn.
A beam there was, on which a besrchen pail
Hung by the handleaa a drivennail.
Drydtn.

They were but few, yet they would eafily over,
throw thi great numbers of them, if ever they came

aft of fale

.Subjctl to every mounter's bended knee.

Cackixiti,

.

Executed or performed by the hnnd.

The firft aft of udng any thing; the iirit

u

to '!•

.

Ha'svy. ttdj. [from iar/d.]

^tcT timer.

No hand of blood and bone

YKk'no-tAKWi. n. f,
hand.

To no other caufe than the wife providence otCoj
can be referred the diverfitj' oi bandwritini^s.

HA'yDSEL.».y:[^/7«;'?/, afirftgift, Dutch.]

of any thing by which it is
held in the hand ; a haft.

2.

My buckler cut through and through, and my
_

Tliat part

J,

gave

mt* ink.

Your own baiidwritingvtouM tell you what 1 think,

Sliak'ejf.

Ha'ndle. »./. [banble, Saxon.]

Temfle.

by the

Sa«' manageable

fword hack'd like a band/avi.
Shaktfp.
To perform this »x)rk, it is necc(t>ry to be provided with a ftiong knife and a fmall handfjw.

Pray you, my lord, give me leave to queftion ; vou

iu^JU her.

'

If the (kin were parchment, and the bloivi
yoti

hand.

enemy that had bdrrJfr^' ihem I'o iil,
CiarenJu/t,
7,. To praAife upon; to tranfaft with.
(hall fee how 1 II

HAN

Th; Te^msn will neither (land to their bandfatls,

0-

To fix in fuch a manner as in fome direflions to be moveable.

Tlw gates and the chambers they renewed, and
&»»ffrf doors upon them.
Mae. iv. 57.
cover
fufpended,

7. '["o

S

'^

or

charge by

any thing
Hung

.

HAN
Harg he ihe buv'iu with bUck, yield iij to
night?

Sbakiff.

14.

Which hung not, butfo fwiftwith tempeft fell

On the proud crell of Satan.

1 1

e'er

Milton.
She thrice elTay'd to fpeak : her accents A«/^,
Andlault'ring dy'd unfinirti'don her tongue. Dryd.

Bttccn,

15.

!

16.

18.

And fall thcfe fayings from that gentle tongue.
Where civil fpeech and fofl perfualion bung ^ Prior.
5. To be Supported by fomething raifed
above the ground.
Whatever is placed on the head may he faid to

To hover; to impend.

Now purple hangings cloath the palace wails,

Odious names of diftinfllon, which bad flept
while the dread of popery bung oyti us were revived.

To be loofely joined.

'

I

Rome olt has heard a crofs haranguing,

Whither go you i

home ?

Z.

^Ay, and as idle as (he may bang together.

Shak.

To adhere,
dioufly.

Addif.

Wv\v together,

tion, and dilTipatcs thofc apprrhcnfions which bang
en the timorous or the modeil, when admitted to her

Addijon.

Shining landftips, gilded triumphs, and beautiful
faces, difj-erfe (hat glocminefs which is apt to bang
upon the mind in ihofe difcoofolate feafons.
Addijon.

To refl

i

to refide.

13.

To

Shakeff.

De in rufpenfe ; to be in a ilate of

uncertainty.

Hk'itGWiC participial aaj. [fromi5<7«rj-.]
Foreboding death by the halter.

I .

Surely, fir, a good favour you have ; but that you
have a hafiging look.
Shakffp.

What Jii\ hiops lips he has

!

How full a fnout, and what a hanging face

!

1.

W hether art

like

a

—Your friend, fir,

?

the hangman : you muft he fo
Slai'/pgood, fir, to rife, and be put to death.
Men do not tland

In 1« ill c;ife, that Uod hath wkh his hand

were, or heedlefs hap.

In her rude hairs fwcet flowers themfclves did lap.
Spenfer,

2. That which Iiappcns by chance or fortune.
Cur'ft be good bjps, and curd be they that build
Their hopes on b.ips, and do not make defpair
For all Ihefecertain blows the furdt Ihield. Sidney,
To have cjc^ed whatlbever that church doth make
account of, without any other crime than that it
hath been liie hap thereof to be ufed by the church
of Rome, and not to be commanded in the word of
Cod, might haply have pleafcd (bmc lew men, who,
having begun fuch a courfe themfclves, muft be glad
Haoket,
to fee their example followed,
Things cafu.il do varj", and that which a m.in
doth but chance to think well of cannot dill have the

Dryd.

/wA^wa/i upon a pair of

it

And nourilhing frelh leaves and bloffoms did enwrap.

Knoiler.

like blip.

Solyman commended thein.for their valour in their
evil haps, more than (he viflory of others got by
good foriune.

Knolles,

A fox had the hap to fall into the hands of a lion.

.

This monfter fat

Chance; fortune.
As through the flow'ting lorclt ra(h the tied.

Requiring to be p^nifhed by the halter;
A hanging matter. -:
H A N G M A .N «./. [hang and /«a».]
I. The publick executioner.
gallows; in his rigiit hand he was paiaied hnUing a
crown of laurer,'a'nd in his left hand a purfe of nwney.
Sidney.

Addifon,

HAP. n.f. [anhap, in Welfli, is misfortune.]

z.

Who makes that noife there ? who are you

Sleep (hall neither night nor day

Hang upon i)is penthoufe lid.

Wot

'. c.

my mellow Lingings, nay my leaves,
Hbakejp,
Andlelt me bare to weather.

'

Addi/cn.

A cheerful temper (hinesout in all her converfa-

12.

.

A llorm, or robbery, or call it what you will.

unwelcomely or incommo-

prefence.

Prior.

Shook down

n the common caufe wc arc all of a piece ; we
Dryder.
bang Itgrihtr.
Your device bangt very well together ; but is it

11.

'

in ufe.

.

t

i)Ot liable to exceptions ?

With prompting prieft behind the -6rt;?£;/«^.
Any thing that hangs to another,
,

To drag; to be incommodioufly joined.
To be compaft or united

That roguilh leer of your'smakes a pretty woman's
heart ake : you .6a;i'r that fimpcr about the mouth
for nothing.

Lucas Van Leyden has infe^ed all
bis defigns for lapeltry, which, by the ignorant, are
Dryden.
called ancient hangings.

Aitiriitrj.

10.

Han't, for has nut, ox have not,
'

Dryden.
Europe witli

Sbakeff.

In my Lucia's abfence
Life hangs upon me, and becomes a burden.

that tliey get not a ban/:ering after thefe juggling
aOrologersand fortune-tellers.
VEftrange.
The Ihepherd would be a merchant, and the merchant bankers after fomething elfe.
L'EjIrange.
Doft thou not banker after a greater liberty in fome
things ? If not, there's no better fign of good rcfoUition.
Calaviy,
The wife is an old cc^uette, that is always ban"
kering after the diverfions of the town.
AJdi/on.
The republick that fell under the fubjeflion of
the duke of Florence, ftill retains many hankerings
after its ancient liberty.

And fumptuous featts ^re made in fpieiidid hails.

•

g.

Ctarendon,

fladiirar.

Among women and children, care is to be taken

Drapery hung or fattened againft the

held up.

He hath a heavenly gift of prophf cy ;
And fundry blc0ing8 har.g about his throne.

it (he at

And tcit fuch bowel hankerings,
'io fee an empire all of kings.

Were abfent, their rcoms

Like rich hangings in aji homely houfe
Sbakefp.
So was his will in his old feeble body.
Being informed that his breakfalt was ready, he
drew towards the door, where the hangings were

fiacham.

;

And now the faints began their reign.
For which th' had yearn'd fo long in vain.

walls of rooms by way of ornament.

Sbaheff.
Fauliina is defctibed in the form of a lady fitting
upon a bed, and two little infants hanging about her

That fpeak him full of grace.

familiar language.

Hanging. »./.rfrom^<7»f.]

Have talked of Monmouth's grave.

To fee your wife

Pi^fr.

were fupplied by the umbrse, or hangers-on. Broivn,
They all eicufed themlelves fave two, which two
he reckoned his friends, and all the relt bangers-on.
JU hjhange.
He is a perpetual hanger-on, yet nobody knows
how to be without him.
H'wiJ't,

I.

o

I

long importunately ; to have an incefl^Mit
wifh ; it has commonly after before the
thing defired.
It is fcarccly ufed but io

•

If the wife or children

hang ; as we call banging^ATicas fuch as ate planted
Addijon.
on the top of the houle.
6. To reft upon by embracing.
She hung about my neck, and kifs on kifs
Shahfp.
She vied.
To-day might I, hanging on Hotfput's neck.

To Ha'nker. -v. n. [hauienn, Dutch.]

any thing hangs ; as, the ytot /bankers.
[from knag.'] A fliort
It.
/.
broad fword.
Ha'ng£r-on. ». /. [itom hang.'l A dependant, one who eats and drinks without payment.

to play.

;

Deciy of Piety.

To

H'anger.

By hanging is only meant a pofturt of bending forAadijen.
ward to ftrike the enemy,

;

have on their truding merchants, that, upon peril
oflofingallfoimerfcores, he mud (till go on tofupply?

Ha'nc er. »./. [from hang.'\ That by which

To bend forward.

neck.

To be executed by the halter.
The court forfakes him and lir Balaam hangs.

Arong.

A Ikein of thread.
A tye a check an influence. A lowword.
Do we think we have the bank that fome gallants

decline ; to tend down.
His neck obliquely o'er his (houlders hung,
Prefs'd with the weight of deep tliat umes the

9.

1

Like banging (leeves, lin'd through with ears.
HuJihra),
If gaming does an aged fire entice,
Then my young roafter fwiftly learns the vice.
And (hakes in tanging fleeves the little box and dice.
Dryden.

%.

I .

z.

Pipe.

part ; to dangle.
Upon her fhoulders wings (he wears,

\hani, Iflandick, a chain or

coil of rope.]

marl (hews itfclf on the middle of the
fidts of ia»g;>j grounds.'
Mfrtimer.

Which to the gate direftly did incline,
With comely compais and compaflure ilrong. Sfenf.
2. To depend ; to fall looiely on the lower

7.

Hank. »./.

To be fixed or fufpended with attention.

S'^ilTex

Over it a fair portcullisAx/ff^,

;

He halli twice or thrice cut Cupid's bowftriiig,
and the little hangman dare not fhoot at him. Shak.

Prior,

Though wond'ring fenates bung on all he fpoke.
The club mull hail him mafUr of the joke.
rofe.
To have a fteep declivity.
1 7.

To be fufpended; to be fopported above,
not below.

!

!

narchspalc,

To Hang. -v. n.

To float

One cried, God blefs us and Amen Ihe other
As they had feen me with thefe hangnuis's hands :
Liftening their fear, I could dot fay Amen,
When they did fay God blefs us.
Sbakefp.

'l"o

On whofe juft fceptrc bangs Europa's fcale.

A term of reproach, either ferious or
ludicrous.

!

Addijix.

the trophies of his labours.

2.

be dependant on.
Oh, how wretched
Is that poor man xhn hangs on princes' favours
Sb.
Great queen whole name llrikes haughty mo-

my pious father for my fake

Cid grateful off'rings on thy altars 'make.
Or I increas'd them with my fylvan toils,
And iung thy holy rods with favage fpoi's.
Diydcn.
Give me to fcatter thcfe.
Sir Roger hat hung feveral parts of his houfe with

4.

to linger.

;

A noble ftroke he lifted high.

To fomllh with ornaments or draperies
tanged,

3.

To be delayed

fattened to the wall.
Mulick is better in chambers wainfcotted than

%,

1.

day and night, and (halt have none afDcut.

lurance of thy life.

Heads and their mangled members hurg the door.
Dryden,

'

HAP
Sign'd kings blank charters to kill whom they hate ;
Nor are they vicars but hangmen to fate.
Juonner,
1 never knew a critick, who made it his bufinels
to lalh the faults of other writers, that was not guilty
of greater himfcif? as the hangman is generally a
woife malefa^or than the criminal that lufftri by hi»
hand.
Addifon,

(halt feat

The pavement ever foul with human gore

•

HAN
Thy life (hall bang in doubt before thee, and thou

L'EJirange,
3.

Accident; cafual event; misfortune.
Nor feared Ihe among the bands to dray

Of armed men ; fqr olten had (he f?cn
The tragick end of many a bloody fray

:

Her life had lull of baps and hazards been. Fairfax.
Hap-hazard. »._/". Chance; accidenx
perhaps originally hap hazard}.

The former of thele is the mod fure and infallible
way ; but fo bard that all diun it, and had rather
waU(

HAP
walk

as

HA R

mtn do in the dark by hnp-hjxarJ, ihan
and

tread fo long
lake.

intricate

mues Ibr knowledge'
Hookn.

of our defires, the higheft degree of all our perfeftioij.

We live at ba{>-haxarJ, and without aiiy inlight
into caufes and eflefls.

Lockt.

The various and contrary choices that men make

To happen; to have the cafual confe-

in the world,
to every

may need to be prefcntly employed, and wliofe want
may bap to hazard a kingdom.
C/arend'tn.
2. To come by chance; to befall cafually.
Run you to the citadel,
And tell my lords and lady what hath bap'tl. Sbak.
In deftrudlions by deluge the remnant which bap
to be referved arc ignorant people.
Bacon,

Ha'ply, adv. [from hap.\
peradventiire ; it may be.
;
This love of theirs myfclf have often fcen,

Perhaps

Hafly when they have judg'd me fait aflcep. Sbak.

—

Unhappy;

3.

Had not the father's grief reftrain'd his art. Dryim.
Smitb.

;

Bring forth your llrong reafons, and (hew us what

happm.

IJaiab.

Sav not I have (inncd, and what harm hath bappcnedMXiXQ rac ?
EccUf. v 4.
If it fo fall out that thou art miferable for ever
thou haft no reafon to be furprifed, as if fome unexpefled thing had bappeini to thee.
Tillotjon.

to fall by chance.

have happened on fome other accouDU relating

to mortalities.

Craunt.

Ha'ppilv. ad-v. [from hafpy.'\
Fortunately; luckily; fuccefsfully,

I come to wive it wealthily in Padua :
If wealthily, then happily in Padua.
Sbakefp.
Preferr'd by conqucft, Impptly o'erlhrown,
Fallipg they rife to be with us made one.
H^alUr.

Neither is it fo trivial an undertaking to make a
trag'-dy end happily; for 'tis more difficult to fave
than kill.
Drydtn.

gracefully;

For harbour at a thoufand doors they knock'd

Doubly curs'd
Be all thofe eafy fools who give it harbour.

without

la-

bour.

2.

A fpacious hofpitable harbour make.

S-u/ifi

3.

hearing,

be

Englifli ;

Ihelter.

This night let's harbour here in York. Sbakefp.'
They are fent by me,
That theylhould harbour where their lord would be,
_

And harbour'd in a hollow rock at night

which the Italian arringo feems to favour,
may be from orare, or ora-

Next morn they rofe, and fet up every (^il •

perhaps it
tionare,

orationer,

oraner, aranger, haran-

A fpeech

a popular oration.

;

Cray-headed men, and grave, with warriors mix'd
AITemble, and harangues are heard, but foon
In faAious oppofition.
Milton.
Nothing can better improve political fchoolboys
than the art of making plaulible or implaufible ba.
ranguei, againft the very opinion for which they refolve to determine.

The wind was fair, but blew a mackrel gale.
Let me be grateful ; but let far from me

_ „

And fcrvile Hattery, that harbours oft
In courts and gilded roofs.

I.

My

;

Knaves I know, which in this plainncfs
Harbour more craft, and more corrupter ends

Than twenty filky ducking obfervants.

[haranguer,

Sbakefp.
Let not your gentle brealt harbour one thought

Fr.J
to pronounce an ora-

Of outrage from the king.

tion.

Form'd by thy converfe, happily to fteer

V, a.

owe thijoldhoufe the fame kind of gratitude
that we do to an old friend who barbiurs us in
his
declining condition, nay even in his lad extremities.

To addrefs by an

From grave to gay, from lively to (evere,
P(,pc.
oration; as, ht harangued tht troops.
In a ftate of felicity ; as, he Wva happily.
By chance ; peradventure. In this ftnfe Hara'nguer. »./. [itom harangue.] An
orator; a publick fpeaker
generally
happily is written erroncoufly for haply.
with fome mixture of contempt.
One ihmg more I Oiallwilh you to defireofthem,
To Ha'rass. -v. a. [harajfer, French, from
*ho happily may perufc theft two tie»lifes,

Pope.

How people, fo greatly wanflSd with a fenfe of
Ihould be capable of Aariowrw^ fuch weak
fuperftition ; and that fo much bravery and fo
much
folly can inhabit the fame bicafts.
Pope,
liberty,

:

Digby.

.

fatisfiecl.

llapjint/i

harajje, a heavy buckler, according to

Cttnge.]

Du
To weary; to fatigue; to tire

with labour and uneafinefs.
Thefe troops came

is

that eftate whereby we attain, fo far

n poifibly may be iUainsd, the iM fofltflion of

fcrcj

Ro-we.

We

To Hara'ngtje

Ha'ppiness. »./. [from hapfy."]
Felicitv ; ftate in which the defires are
I

your
Sbakefp.

diforders.

H^atts.

To make a fpeech

To entertain; to permit to refide.
lady bids mc tell you, that though (he bar.
hours you as her uncle, (he's nothing allied
to

,

n.

Pbillpt,

Ti Ha'rbour. t;.fl,

Swift.

'V,

to the army but the day bchara(fei with a long and wcarifo»e march.

tacin.

Dryd,

Be fawning cringe, and falfe dilTemblinglook,

Many preachers neglefl method in Axis harangues

ToHaRa'ncue.

Sbakefp,

,

Southwards they bent theirflight.

circle,

g«rr.]

To

receive entertainment; to fojourn; to take

Juniut imagines

au rang, to a

di/rours

Aidlfm:

An afylura; aflielter; a place of flielter

and fecurity.
To Ha'rbour. 'V. n. [from the noun.]

queftioned ; Menage thinks it a corruption
to

Rowe,

A port or haven for (hipping.

Are richly come to harbour fuddenly.
Sbakefp,
They leave the mouths of Fo,
That all the borders of the town o'erflow
;
And fpreiding round in one continu'd lake,

Ha'queton.»./. Acoatof mail. Spett/er.
Hara^ngl-e. «./ [harangue, French. The
original of tlie French word is much
of

A lodging; aplace of entertainment.
Not one of all the thoufand but was lock'd. Dryl„,

fuccefsful; fortunate.

Addrefsful; ready.
One gentleman is happy at'a reply, and another

It

Dryden

Three of your argofies

ercels in a rejoinder.

7» Ha'ppen. -v. n. [from hap.'\
I
To fall out to chance to come to pafs.

'

berg, Dutch ; albergo, Italian.]
1.

Dryden.

Shaltff.

Did his bapltfi yii^on equal mine,
I would refufe the Slifs.

ForVenusisthepromifeofthe Sun.

Yet in this agony his fancy wrought,
Ar.d fear fupply'd him with th'isbapfy thought.

mark'd

Mihoit.

HA'RBOUR. »./ [herberge, French ;'XrI

Chymifts have been more happy in finding experiments than the caufes of them.
Boy.'e.

MUicn.

Milim.

As Ormond's harbinger to you they run

Addifin.

Lucky;

Hilton.
'tillth' evening ftar.

Invites.

Sidney.

happy in thy news ?

make us bapfy, the abfenceofit may make us mi-

Here bapUfs Icarus had found his part.

2. Addrefsfully

Love s harbinger appear'd.

Be/ore him a gre-it prophet, to proclaim

"rable.

To bear th' eilremity of dire milliap!

I.

Otuh'i harbinger.
And now of love they treat,

;

unfortunate ; lucklefs ; unlucky.

;

Slak.

Sin, and her ftiadow death, and mifery,

For it is done.
Sbakefp.
Truth and peace, and love, (hall everlhine
About the fupreme throne
Of him, t' whofe happy ftate alone,

2.

Moon by his fide.

1

1

breath.
death.

be myfelf the harbinger, and make
joyful
J'''
The
heating of my wife with yourapproach.

Our heav'nly guided foul (hall climb.
Milton.
Though the prefence of imaginary good cannot

Deeming fome illand oft, as fcamen tell,
With tiled anchor in his fcaly tind,

To light

Make all our trumpets fpeak, give them all
1 hole clam'rous harbingers of blood and

If to have done the thing you gave in charge,
Beget your happinefs, be bappy then

Stuifi.

Itapltfs iSgeon, whom the fates have

Am

A forerun-

ner ; 3 precurfor.

His coming, is fent harbinger, who all

Her happy making hand.

Milton.

Leviathan, which Cod of all his works
Created hugcll, (hatrwim the ocean Bream ;
Him baply Humb'ring on the Norway foam.
The pilot offomefmall night-founder'd (kift"

2.

hour for thofe that follow.]

At other end Uran did Strephon lend

By chance; by accident.

fliall

good fortune.

delire is fatisficd.

under the like circumlla»ces.

.

;

Miltm

Harbinger. »./. [hcrberger, Dutch, one
who goes to provide lodgings or an har~

In a ftate of felicity ; in a ftate where the

.

Though that fcems ftrange.
Rovif.
Let us now fee what condulions may be found for
inliru^ion of any other ftate, that may hafly labour

hap.'\

The men of Judah, to prevent
The haraf, of their land befet me round.

this variety

:

Ha

1 hen baplji ytt. your breaft remains untouch'd,

[from

Good luck

2.

Ui, Lipty too fecure, of our difchaige

From penalty, becaufe from death releas'd
Some days.

adj.

man alike

3. Fortuitous elegance ; unftudied grace.
Certain graces and bappinejfes, peculiar to every
language, give life and energy to the words. Denbam.
Some beauties yet no precepts can declare;
For there's a bafpintfi as well as care.
Pope.
Form'd by fome rule that guides butnotconllrains,
And fimlh'd more through bappim/s than pains.
Pope.
ppy. adj. [irom hap; as /ucij (or /ucL]
I

To warn

difturbance.

argue that the fame thing is not good

of purfuits fliews,
that every one does not place his bappitefi in the
fame thing.
Loclu.

It will be too late to gather Ihips or foldiers, which

Ha'pless.

Addifon^

Out mcreafes the force of the verb.
Ha^rass. n. f. [from the verb.] Waftej

Philofophers differ about the chief good or bap/>//i^iof man.
Temple.

quence.

2,

Nature opprefs'd, ini barafs'd out with care,
Sinks down to reft.

I

To Hap. i!. ?/. [from the noun.]

I.

The reft, an heartlefs number, fpentwith watching.j
And barafs'd out with duty.
Dryden,

Oh happintfs of fweet rctir'd content.
To be at once fecur« and innocent.
Denbam,

and then believe a whole 'y^^cm, upon a prefuniption
that they are true.

Our walls are thinly mapn'd, our beft men (lain

Hooker,

L'S/lrafge.

We taice our principles at ba^-baxard upon IrulV,

1,

HAR

that which limply for itfelf is (0 be defirod and containeth in it after an eminent fort the contentation

To fhelter; to fecure.

2.

Warfoar yfurfelf this night in this caftle : this
country is very dangerous for murthering thieves to
tnift a Ileeping life among them.
Sidney.

Ha'rbourage. n.f.

[I.vrbcrgage,

French,

from harbour.] Shelter; entertainment.
Let m us, jrout king, wh»fe Ubour'd fpirits,
S 2 »

f otewcarifti

;

H AR
iricd in this »Qian of fwift fpetd,

harbutrage within vour city w^U, S&jkfjp

Ha'rbourer. //. y'. [tVom J>ar6»ur.\ Oa
ne

H A R

H A R

Rough ungovernable paflions Inirry men on lo fay
or do very hard or ofieiiiive things.
AtmiMry.

Centura rofe in his defence.
And pray'd fo bard for mercy from the ptincf,

Ha'rbovrless.

aJJ.

A5 thou lov'ft me, do him not that wronj.

[from

To bear a hard opinion of his truth.

harbour.']

ing; without (helter.

U KKBKOVGH fot tarlmur,
HARD. adj. [ heanb, Saxon
Firm;

refilling

Spen/er.

harJ, Dutch.]
penetration or repara;

tion ; not foft ; not eafy to be pierced or

I f I by chance fuceeed
In what I write, and that's a chanet indeed,

broken.

Know I am not fo fhipid or fo bard.

Rcpofe you there, while I to the hard houfe,
Mote hard thin is the (tone whereot 'tis raisM
Which rven but now, demanding after you

Not to feel praife, or fame's defei-v'd reward. Dryd,
Unhappy; vexatious.
It is a very hard quality upon our foil or climate,
that fo excellent a fruit, which profpers among all
Temple,
our neighbours, will not grow here.
10. Vehement; keen; fcvere: as, a. hard

v

the bardtji cafe in the world, that Steele
(liould take up the reports of his fa^ion, and put
a> additional feus.
off
Sviift.
them
It

12.

difficulties.
Gtnefii.

Poffcfs

At lords afpacious world, t' our native heav'a

Milton,

other.

And bard, that out of bell leads up to light
Our prifon ftrong,

and

one to death, and outright kills the
L' Ejlrange.

tides the

Let them confiJer the vexation they arc ircalunng
up for themfclves, by ftrugglingN^ith a power ubich
will be always too hard for them.
AJ.iifoK.
difputant, when he finds that his advcrlai^- is

He Viow difcern'd he was wholly to be on the defcDllve, and that was lilce to be a very bard firt too.

C/areKjoK.

Nervous and tendinous parts haveworfe fymptoms,
are harder of cure than flclhy ones.

14. Auftere; rough, as liquids.
In making of vinegar,
oily ff irits,

Racbael travailed, and Sat hii bard Uhovr.
Gemfit.

ij.

ancients, make

Ctartndm.

metaphors,

;

and, if the times had

Sidney.
iner retiring place.
They doubled a while what it (hould be, 'till it
was caft up even hard before them ; at which time

plough.

they fully faw it was a man.
A little lowly hermitage it was,
Down in a dale, bard by a forciVs fide,
Far from rcfort of people th,u did pafs

;

So « retched is thy Ton, lb bard a mother thou.

}

Drydtit.
If you thouglit that bard upon you, we would not
Dryden.
refufe you half yo»r time.
lofs of one thjcd of their eftates will be a very
Locke.
tard cafe upon agrcat numberof people.
No people live with mote cafe and profperily
than the fubjedls of little commonwealths; as, on
the contrary, there arc none who fuflFer more under
the grievances of a <6ar>/ government than the fubjefls
Addijan.
of little principalities.
To find a bill that may bring punifhment upon
bard,
will
appear
very
SwiJ"!.
the nnocent,

When thefe marrtial the way, hard at Jiand comes
the mailer and main cxeriife.

i

,

SbiAeJt-

Sidney.

Sfenfer.
In travel to and fro.
Scarce had he faid, when hard at hand they fpie
That quickfand nigh, with water covered. •• Spenjrr.

A

6. Sour; rough ; fcvere.
What, have you jivco him any larJ vmrit of

4.

Shakefpeare.

Abimelcch went hard unto the door of the tower,
Judges.
to burn it with fire.
I'hc Phililiincs fallowed bard upon Saul, a Sam.
Hard by a cottage chimney fmokes,
Milton^
From betwixt two aged oaks.
2. Diligently ; laborioufly ; inceflantly ; ve-

hemently ; earneftly ; importunately.

To make infenfible; to (lupify.
Religion fcts before us not the example of a ftupiti
Stoick,

who had by obftinate prinriples hardened

himfelf againft all fenfe of pain ; but an example of
a man like ourfelvcs, that had a tender fenle of the
leaft fuffering, and yet patiently enduied theerealeft.
"fill'ii/on.

Hard by was a houfe of plealure, built for a fum-

Whom fcarce my Iheep, and i'carce my painful
The needful aids of human life allow

Hebrevfi,
(liflTened his neck, and hardened his heart
from turning unto the lord.
,
a. Cbron,
It is a melancholy confideraiion. that there Ihould
be fcveral among us fo hardened and deluded as to
think an oath a proper fubjedt for a jcft.
Addifon.

Avaricious; faultily fp.nring.
Hard. ad-v. \kardo, very old German.]
1. Clofe; near: often with z^'.

•un.
Br(,iuii'3 Vulgar Errours.

h't^\i.-ard

He

17.

The bargain ofjuliui III. may be accounted a

Dryden,

A piece of the hardened marl.

But exhort one another d»ily, left any of you be
hardened through the dcceitfulncfs ot lin.

Dryden.

Cruel; oppreffive; rigorous ; as, a /lar^

And ribs of iron arni'd his fide.

durate.

infufferably

much viOuals as
Cheyne,

to indurate.

To confirm in effrontery; to make impudent.
3. To confirm in wickednefs; to make ob^

not profperous.

There are bonfires decreed

;

{{torn hard.]

In ^arden^d oak his heart did hide.

Dryden.
;

'lo

Sure he, who firft the paflage try'd.

not been hard, m'y billet Ihould have burnt too.

heart.

late.

Not plentiful

To make hard

J.

to

fttained.

i6.

[from hard.]

Bactm,
Tff Ha'rden. <y. <7.

Dryden.
his

a,

-v.

The powder of loadftone and flint, by the addition
of whites of eggs and gum-dragon, made into palle,
will in a kviiiyi burden to the hardncfsof a Hone.

the praftice of the
their figures harder than even the

particularly

bound,]

grow hard.

His diredfion is bard, his figures loo bold, and his
tropes,

'Tayijr.

[hard and

adj,

fofe.

To Ha'rden.

conftrained.

marble itfclf.

When Sebaftian weeps, his tears
Dryden.
Come harder than his blood.
A man obliged to hard labour is not reduced to

very bard Ota,

ftifF;

Others, fcrupiilouny tied

Worceftft's horfe came but to-day :
And now tlieir pride and mettle is aileep.
Their courage with hard labour tame and dull,
Shakeff.
. That not a horfe is half of himfelf.
Continual bard duty, with litiic fighting, lellened

more

an^ leaves the fpiiit morefout and h.nd.
Bacon.

Harfh ;

and cry ; wife

2.
of wine over-

againll the nooii fun, whiiijh callcth nut the

fiiffering.

and dipainilhcd his army.

fet veflcls

it

Jull writes to make his barrennefs appear.
And llraint from hardlonxd brains eight lines a-year.

H atts,

Have pafs'd the perils of fo hard a way.
Drydct'
4< Painful ; diftrefsful ; laborious adion or

y.

Ha'rduound.

too Ijurd for him, with flynefs turns the difcourfe.

ififemaH.

The love and pious duty which you pay

down in

lit

pople defend themfelves againft it.

A

and

Ihe necelTily of having twice as
one under no neccility to work.

When the North wind blows hard, and it rains
fadly, none but fools

Colli ve.

kriltun.

Long is the way

and pegs of
Bacon,

Tempeftoufly ; boiiteroufly.

7.

13.

With peril great atchiev'd.

With difficulty ;

Solid bodies forelhow rain, as boxes

fo

Powerful; forcible.
The ftag was XoohurJ for the horfe, and the horfe
flies for fuccour to the man that's too hard for him,

my adventure bard

away as bard as they
VEJlrange.
in a manner requiring

wood when they dravi- and wind hard.

we allow the
years,

L'EJtrange,

vehemently.

;

The wolves (compered
could drive.

Forced; not eafily granted.
li

nimblv

Fall ;

5.

is

tirft couple, at the end of one
have left ten pair of breeders,
hundred
which is no bard fuppolitiou; there would arife
from thefe, in fifteen hundred yeais, a greater numUuritet.
ber than the earth was cairable of.

of

Broun,

A ftag that was Aaii/ fet by the huntfmer, betoolc

Sirift.

they are either terms ut art, or iucb as I fubltitutcd
in place of others that were too low.
Arbuibnot.

Little inferior, by

doubt.

himfelf to a ftall for faniSuary.

labour.

It is a little /6<iri/, that in an aSairof the lallcnnfequence to the very being of the clergy, this whole
reverend body Ihould be the fole perfons notconfulted.

As for the ^jr<2 words, which I wa^ obliged to life,

Is any thing too £dri/ £>r the Lord ?

Allcriury,
3. Uncafily ; vexatioufly.
When a man's fcrvant ihall play the cur with
him, look you it goes hard.
Shakffp.
4. Dirtrefsfully ; fo as to raife difficulty.
The quellion is hard fet, and we have reafon to

6.

Winter; /'ar<^ weather.

Mote by his pray'r, whom Ihe fo dearly lov'd.
Or more with fury fir'd.
Dryden.

full

bard ior an anlwer, and is earncit in (hat point.

11. Unreafon.ible ; unjuft.

»:ry fmall matters they judged themfel«s.
Exodut.
When bard words, jealoulies, and fears.
Set folks together by the ears.
Hudibrat,
'Tis hard to fay if Clymene were mov'd

of accompliihment ;

Addifon,

Whoever my unknown correfpondnt be, he prcllci

9.

SialeJ^tare.
Denied me to come in.
2. Difficult ; not eafy to the intelleft.
Some difeafes, when they are hard to be cured
Sidney.
arc bard to be Icnown.
The hard caules they brought unto Mofes { but

3. Difficult

a very heavy load every day four league*.

Xhakejp.

Abfalom and Achitopliel he thinks is a litne
Dryden.
bard on his fanatick patrons.
Some hard rumours have been tranfmiftcd from
t'other fide the water, and rumours of the fevered
kind.
Su'{ft.
f
8. Infenfible; inflexible.

Wanting harbour; being without lodg-

1.

That to his cjiieen the king ih' oflcnder gave. Dryd,
An ant works as hard as a man who lliould carry

Unfavourable; unkind.

7.

that entertains another.

Years have not yet hardened me, and i have an
addition of weight on my fpiriislince we loli him.
Stvifi to Pope.
5.

To make firm; to endue with conftancy.
Then fliould I have comfort? yea, I would iar</e«
myfelf in furrow.

y*dj.

One raifes the foul, and hardens it to virtue ; the
other foftcns it again, and unbends it into vice.

Dryden,

Ha'rdenei.. »./. [from hatdett,] One that
makes any thing hard.

HAR»FA'vot;RED. adj, \hard atA foniour.]
Coarfe of feature; narih of countenance.

When the blaft of war blows in your ears,
Stiflen the finews, fummon up the blood,

Difguife fair Nature with hardfavour'd\a<Ait,

Then lend the eye a terrible afpeO.

Sbaktfp,

The brother a very lovely youth, and the fifter
bardfavomed,
•^

VEjlrange.

WEcD

HA R

HAR

When Vulcan came into the worlj, he wis fo
tjrJfiivovred that hij parents fronfneJ on him.

Coarfe ; rnechanick ; one that has hands
hard with labour.
Hurdhandfd men that work in Athens here,
Which ne«r labour'd jn their minds tiU now. Hhak.
Ha'rdhead. n.f. [hard inA head.] Clalh

as

Cruel;

inexorable; mercilefs ; pililefs
barbarous ; inhuman ; favage ; uncompaf-

lionate.
Hurdbtarted Clifford, take dk from the world;

''•"3\

Shakeffeare.

The barks of thofe trees

? Drjjen.
John Bull, othcrwife a good-oatured man, was

very hardheatttd to hij Cfter Peg.

n. f.

Hardly the dame was drawn to this repaft.

Falfe confidence is eafily taken up, and

Hardbearteimfi and cruelty is not only an \n-

human vice, but worfe than brutal.

How blacic ar.d b.

a vice ingratitude

is,

llie

ol compafiion.

hlh that once waj caught,
hardly \iM.

of a libertine.

They are worn, lord Conful, fo
That we fhall hardly in our ages fee

SoKlb.
Hardheariedm/t, is an cfTential in the character
Clarijfj.

;

3.

Sfinfer.

Boldly aflault the n«romancer's hall,

4.

In fingle oppoGtion, hand to hand.

He did contound the belt part of an hour
Shairff.

Zeal was the fpring whence flawed her htrdlmeni.
Fairfax.

—rhcy

Ha'rdlt. adv. [from bard.]

Stv/Jt

Shakeff.

coarfer part o£

Ha'rdshJp. n.f [from hardS]

8.

Injury; oppreiTion.
They are ripe for a peace, to enjoy what we have

1.

Clarendon.

conquered (or them ; and fo are we, to recover
the
effeOs of their bardjhifs upon us.

2.

Notfoftly; not tenderly; not delicately.

'

.

,
in journeys or at home,
in war or peace.

Difobedient to the rein; not fenfiblc of

manufaiftures.

man.]

'Tis time my hardmoulh'd covrfers to controul.

Durity ; power of refiftance in bodies.
HarJnr/, is a firm cohefion of the parts of
matter
that make up maffes of a fenfible bulk,
fo tliat the
wluile does not eafily change its figure.
Locke.

from

iliq

vaiieuj

tombjnjtioas of

ihefc cor-

n.f.

[hardware

and

A maker or feller of metalline

One William Wood, an harduareman, obtains
by fraud a patent in England to coin copper

the bit.

Hardness.*./, \ixovn hard.]

Ma^

nufaftures of metal.

Hardmouthed. adj. [hard and mouth.]

But who can youth, let loofc to vice, reftrain
\
When once the hardmouth'd horfe has got the rein.
He's part thy pow'r to ftep.
Dryden.

Prior.

Ha'roware. n.f. [hard vaA -ware.]
Ha'rdwari;man.

Dryderr.

Addifcn,

By hardjhip, many, many (all by raft.

Heav'n was her canopy ; bare earth her bed
;
So i.ri/r lodg'd.
Dryden.

Apt to run not, and tranfgrcfs the goal.

Sviift.

Inconvenience ; fatigue.
They were e«pofed to hardj),!-- and penury. Spratr.
You could not undergo the
of war.
Nor bear the barJJhipt that
leaders bore.
•

Such information comes very hardly and harihly
and, however foftened goes but ill
down.
^,^^^

I.
I

u
Hards, n.f..-FT.,
The refufe or

to a grown man;

Hardla'boured. adj. [hard znd faiour.]
A fatite, and the gentry buy

fome reafons inducing you to think

S^tft.

3. Effrontery; confidence.

Unfold upon the printer's lines.

Sbahfp.

unfavourably.

7. Unwelcomely; harflily.

SjieSalor.

While my burd'/aiour'd poem pines,

Why he was met ev'n now,
Crown'd with rank fmniterand lurrow-weeds.
With bardoeks, hemlock, nettles, cuckoo-flowers.

„,
,
Thev have begun to fay, and to fetch inftances,
where he has in many things been hardly ufed.

fr«at enduren of
Upcnjir.

How chearfully the hawkers cry

I fuppofc the /ime with

burdock.

Addifon.

Elaborate ; ftudicd ; diligently wrought.

Dryden.

10. Faulty parfiraony ; ftinginefs.

Ha'rdock. n.f.

are now in prifon, and treated hardly
for there are fifteen dead within two
years.

enough;

a. Stontnefs ; cootagc ; bravery.
If we, with thrice luch powers left at home,
Cannot defend our own doors from the dog.
Let us be worried ; and our nation lofe
The name of baid'mtft and policy.
Sbaktjh.
Perkin had gathered together a power of all iiations, neiihei in' number, nor in the baidineft and
courage of theit peifons contemptible.
Bacan.
H« has the co'irage of a rational creature, and
fuch an hardinrjs we fhould endeavour by cuftom
and ufe to bring children to.
Locke.
Criminal as y«u are, you avenge yourfelf againrt
the bardau/i of one that Qwuld tell you of it.

Sculptors are obliged to follow the
manners of the
painters, and to make many
ample folds, whic4i
are infuffcrable hardneff,!, and
more like a rock,
than a natural garment.

Dryden.

are they necelTary, or mere poflibilities
only ? Hooktr.
6. Rigoroufly ; oppreflively.
Many men believed that he was iar<//^ dealt with.

hardy.]

cold, hunger, and all hard.xefi.

"^

'"

9. StifFnefs; harflinefs.

hardly ot our laws, are thofe reafons
demonftrative,

Ha'kdiness. n.f. [hardkjje, French; from
Hardihip; fatigue.
They are valiant and harJy;

South

,t

If there are

Shakejh..

They quicken (loth, perplexities untv,

^ .Make roughnefs fmootli, and Aari/75/i mollify.

unwittingly

5. severely;

ki changing bardimtnt with great Qendowvr.

We will aflc,
May hang upon our hardnefs.

To reconcile me.

Sftnftr.

Mortimer.

r

1

Cruelty of temper; favagenefsj harflinefs; barbarity.

Have aught committed that is hardly borne
By any in this prefence, 1 defire

Bjt fuii o[ fire and greedy bardlmrnf.

/->

That if we fail in our requeft, the blame

Grudgingly ; u an injury.
ll 1

The yoachtul knight could not for aught be ftaid.

I.

L

o
8.

that body.

Not in ufc.

Ob the gentle Severn's fedgy baiik.

Uihe tardnefi of the Winter (hould fpoil them,
neither the lofs of feed nor labour will
be much.

1 here is hardly a gentleman in the nation
who
hath not a near alliance with fome of

«

bravery.

fons.

bait will

Almoft not; barely.
The wand'ring breath was on the wing to part.
Weak was the pulfe, and hardly heav'd the heart.

It

jj^

Keennefs ; vehemence of weather or
{Z-

7.

Fai.ySuten.

the credit ol being thought good.

Enflam'd with fury and fierce hardybmd.
He feem'd in heart to harbour thoughts unkind.
And nourilh bloody vengeance in his bitter mind.

wanting iii the beauty of

their bodies.

;

Dryden.

hardly laid

new

behaviour they compenfate the

°^ '^''' ''"°"''' '"' ^y ''" pulchritude of
.C
c-^\
their fou
s make up what is

Bacon.

Their banners wave' again.
Shakeff.
Hardly (hall you find any one fo bad, but he delires

Ha'&dihead. 1 »./ [from Lardy.] StoutHa'rdikood. J nefs bravery. Obfolete.

Where il he be, with dauntlcfs bardihoid. Milloi.
Ha'rdiment.
/. [from hardy, hardi*w«/, adv. French.] Courage; ftoutnefs;

South,

By their virtuous

South.
^
X. ocarcely; fcant ; not
lightly; with no
likelihood,

may

Stulft,

profligatenefs.
;
Every commiltion oflin introduces

6. Coarfenefs; harfhnefs
of look.

,

be feen in ihofe vice^ which it is always in combination with, pride aud hardhtariidnrfs, or want

times,

^°'^ fervanl's crimes.

Obduracy

unto the foul
a certain degree of hardne/s,
and an aptnefs to con,
tinue in that Im.

*'""•

L'E/irjn^t.

"'^"''^^

/^u J
5.

Recov'r.ng hardly what he loil before.
His right endears it much, his purchafe more. Dryd

want of connpaflion.

penury.

The tenants poor, the hardnef, of the

Bacm.

The father, mother, daughter, they invite

Arbuibnat.

[from hardf

Cruelty; want of tcndernefs ;

hearted.]

4. Scarcity ;

are

the hardlUr ilfue out.

hardnefsai this ent/rprize.

Concerning the duty itfelf, the
hardnej, the^f
IS not fuch as needeth
much art.
Hooker.

more clofe and folt
than thole of oaks and alhes, wheieby
the mofs can

My ripening hopes, that are fo nejr to joy

Shakefp,

or never to (harpen my intention

to pierce through the

There are in living creatures parts that nourilh
and repair eafily, and parts Uiat
nourilh and repair

Can you be fo bardktartei to de(b-oy

Hardhi'artedness.

JJifficuIty to be accomplifhed.
It was time now

Hooker.
God hath delivered a law as (harp as the twoedged fword, piercing the very clofell and
moft uiilearchable corners of the heart, which
the law of
nature can hardly, human laws by no
means, poffibly reach unto.
Hooker.

[hard and hean.]

My foul to heav'n.

3.

but only the immortality of the foul.

Drjjtn.
adj.

JJiHiculty to be underftood.
This label on my bofom
is fo from fenfc in
hardne/i, that I can
Make no collection of it.

be-

Hooker.
and they endued with great
ripenefs of wit and judgment, tree
from all fuch
affairs as might trouble their
meditations, inftrufled
in the fharpell and fubtleft points
of learning ; who
have, and that very hardly, been
able to find out

h'oJduard.

2.

they require the fame at our hands.

1 here are but a few,

I have been at hjrjb^ad with your bjtf.ng citizens; I have routed your herd, 1 have dilperfed

Ka«dhe'aRted.

fpecfick gravity.

_,

of heads ; manner of fighting in which
the combatants dafh their heacls together.
them.

may fatisfy gainfayers, when fuddenly and

fides eapeiSation

the bodies formed

m colour, tafte, fmell, hanhefi, and

outot them,

are r(!C»ivcd,

although in themfclves they be molt certain,
yet,
becaufe men prefume them granted of
all, we arc
hurdlkfi able to bring fuch proof of their
certainty

\hard' and hand.'\

adj.

pufcules happen all the varieties of

Touching things which generally

Dryden,

Hardha'nded'.

H A R

With difficulty; not ea%.

I.

to pafs in

Ireland.

^^^^

HA'RDY. adj. [hardi, French.!
I.

Bold; brave; (lout; daring; refolute.

Try the imagination of fome in cock-fights, to
make one cock more hardy, and the other more
cowardly.

^f-r.,.

Recite

The feats of Amazons, the faf.il fight
Betwixt the hardy queen and hero knight.

Dryden.

Who is thcie hardy enough to contend with the

rejroaclj which is prepared fur lliole,

who dare venture

ture to diflefit

Loth.

Could ihirft of vengeance, »nd defire of fame,
Excite the female breaft with martial flame ?

And (hill not lo«'! diviner pow'r infpire
More iarJy virtue, and more gea'rous fire
2. Strong; hard; firm.

Prior.

!

man confident of his prefent ftrength ? An
ynwholelome blaft may (hake la pieces his barJv
Is a

impudent;

[This name is faid to
have been given by t'rancis of France to
a bufy buffoon, in ridicule of his enemy

which are much
a vidorious army
like Stratoclei, Polemarcbus, and Hegfji.
ftratus among the Greeks. Gibjhn's Camd.
»./. Lhapa, Saxon; karh, Erfe.]
;

zani.
Tlie joy of a king for a vlflory muft not be like
that of a burlejuin upon a letter from his milb'efs.

HARE.
1. A fmall quadruped, with long ears and

Dryden.

The man in graver tragick known.

HA'RLOT. «./.

The iare appears, whofe aftive tays fupply

A blue

Ha'rlotry. «./. [itom harlot.
1. The trade of a harlot; fornication.
From Rome's tribunal, thy harangues prevail

That harebrained wild fellow begins to play the
Bacon.

A bird.

2.

An herb.

The (hipwright will be careful to gain by his li>
hour, or at leall to fave himfclf barmfefs, and therefore fuit his work (lightly, according to a flight price.

Raleigh.

Ha'rmlessly. fli/i/. \itomharmlefs.]

Ha'rmlessness.

». /. [from harmlejs.]
Innocence ; freedom from tendency to iii-

jury or hurt.

When, through taftelefs flat humility.
In dough-bak'd men fome harmlej/ne/t we fee,
'Tis but his phlegm tlut's virtuous, and not he.

Donne.
Compare the harmlejfne/i, the credulity, the tendernefs, the modelty, and the ingenuous pliablenefs
to virtuous counfels, which is in youth untainted,

with the rsifchievoufnefs, the flynels, the craft, the
impudence, the fallhood, and the confirmed obft<South.
nacy in an aged long-pratlilcd finner.

fical proportion to each other.
After every three whole notes, nature requireth,
for all harmonical ufe, one half note to be intcrpofed.

pecvilh fclf-wiU'd harlo'try.

That no perfuafion can do good upon,
«./. [heapm, Saxon.]
1. Injury; crime; wrckednefs.
2. Mifchief; detriment; hurt.

Shake/f.

Sacon^

Ainfworth.
fiffure in the upper lip

Ha'relip. »./. A
with want of fubftance, a natural defed.

Concordant ;

2.

lefs properly.
Harmonical founds, and difcordant founds, are
both adive and pofitive ; but blacknefs and darknelii

but privatives.
Bacon.
So fwells each wind-pipe ; afs intones to afs,
leather,
horn,
and
brafs.
Harmonick twang of
Poft,

Beg often our own harnn, which the wife Powers
Shake//).
Deny us for our good.
How are we happy ftill in fear of harm f
Milton.
But barm precedes not fin.
They (hould be fulfered to write on: it would

are, indeed,

Harmo'nious. adj. [harmonieux, Fr. from
harmtny,]

keep them out of harm's way, and prevent them

from evil courfes.
v. a.
To

The blots of nature's hand

Harm.

Shall not in their ifTue (land;

Never mole, harelif', nor fear.
Shall upon their children be.

The third ftitch is performed with pins or needles,
tyi/rman.

as in bartlipt.

Ha'respear.. »./ [i«//i?«n«w, Latin.]

A

Millar.

plant.

Sviji.

To hurt; to injure.

All the wide-extended Iky,

A dog for
ti.
f. [from hare.'\
Ainfworth,
hunting bares.
T» Hark. v. n, [Contraftcd from hearieit.}
Ha'rier.

Pa({ions ne'er could grow

To harm another, or impeach your relV.

Waller,
After their young are hatched, they brood them
under their wings, left the cold, and fometimes the
heat (hould barm them.

The' king.

To me inveterate, barkt my brother's fuit. Sbake/f.
Pricking up his ears to hark
Hitdiirai.
If he could hear too in the dark.
llAKK.iaierJ. [It is originally the imperative
of the verb ^ffr/f.] Lift! hear! lilten!
What harmony is this? My good friends, hark!
Sbake/peare.

The butcher faw him upon the gallop with a piece
efflelh, and called out. Hark ye, friend, you may
L'hylrange.
make the bcft of your purchafe.
Hark! methiuks the roar that late purfu'd me.
Sinks like the murmurs of a falling wind.
Re^ie.

and beautiful without us; but it will never come
into our heads all at once; we muft bring it home
Locke.
piece-meal.

Kay.

Ha's-MYVl. adj. [harm ind full.] Hurtful;

Having founds concordant to each other;

2.

mufical; fymphonious.
Thoughts that voluntary move

roifchievous; noxious ; injurious; detri-

mental.

To liften.

And all the harmonious worlds on high,
Coivley,
And Virgil's I'acred work (hall dye.
God has made the inielleAual world harmonious

I faw't not, thought it not, it harm'daiA me. Shak.
'

Adapted to each other; having the parts
proportioned to each other; fymmetrical.

1.

What fenfe had I of her ftol'n hours of lull ?
Shake//}.

muCcal ; proportioned to

each other:

We, ignorant of ourfelves.

Ainf-worlb.

Inwithout crime.

Bullets batter the walls which ftand inflexible, but
fall hjrmle/ily into wood or feathers. Decay of Piety.

A name of contempt for a woman.

Ha'rffoot. »./. [i«« and/e«/.]

Shakeff,

Unhurt; undamaged.

'Gainft harlotry, while thou art clad fo tliin. Dryden,

HARM.

fo»l, when others are weary of it.

Each objedt with a joy.
2.

Harmo'nic AL. \ci^'. [<io/*o»(«« ; barman
nique, French.]
Ha'rmonick. J
1. Relating to mufick; fufccptiblc of mu-

Nor (hall.

fluttering; hurried.

Hooker,
She, like harmlefe lightning, throws her eye

Go, fools, and purchafe an unclean embrace. Dryden.

A

that were taken

On him, her brothers, me, her mailer; hitting

Bert yo»/cH,

2,

iirft

away ?

The barbarous harlots crowd the publick place

flower campaniform.
Thou (halt not lack

The flow'r that's like thy face, pale primrofe; nor
The azur'd harebell, like thy veins. Shake/. Cymb.
Ha'rebrained. adj. [from hart the verb
and braiu.'\ Volatile; unfettled; wild:

newlicft come, (hould be the

Shakeff.
Some ia/7o/'jfpirit.
They help thee by fucb aids as gcefe and barloit.

Creech.
A n™ble force, and hardly wings deny.
To Hare. -v. n. \harier, French.] To

Ha'rebill. «./. \hare and W/,]

[herlodes,\Vt\ai, a girl.

ftrumpet.
Away, my difpolition, and polTefs me with

A conrtellation.

Touching ceremonies barmle/s in ihemfclves, and
hurtful only in rclpedt of number, was it amifs to
decree that thofe things that were leaft needful, and

IValion.

Prior.

Others for korelet, a little whore. Others
from the name of the mother of William
Murlet is ufed in Chancer
the Conqueror.
A whore ; a
for a low male drudge.]

.greyhounds courting a good ftout and well-breathed
Mare.
karr.
Your dreflings muft be with barr'i fur. ffifimai.
Poor is the triumph o'er the timid 6,ire. Tbom/on.

Innocent; innoxious; not hurtful.

1.

He fpent that day free from worldly trouble, barm^

After the jed ftill loads the fcene.

We view in the open champaign a brace of fwift

fright ; to hurry with terrour.
To hart and rate them, is not to teach but vex
Locke.
them.

ncfs.

Ha'rmless. adj. [from harm,]

le/ily, 3ai iu a recreation that became a churchman.

And he who play'd the harlequin,
Unwilling to retire, though weary.

Our captaini Macbeth and Banquo ?
As fparrows eagles; or the hen, the lion. Shaiefp.

n. f. [from harmful,]
mifcliievoufnefs ; noxiou{-

nocently; without hurt;

Though his belt part long fince was done,
Still on the ftage dcfires to Urry ;

Difm.iy'd not this

1.

Menage derives it more

probably from a famous comedia.i that
frequented Mr. Harley'i houfe, whom his
friends called Harlequino, little Harley.
TVm;.]
a buflfoon who plays tricks to
divert the populace ; a Jack-pudding; a

tion only, fignify both an army and a
So Harold is a general of an army
lord.
Hareman, a chief man in the army; Hrr-

2.

Mortimer,

HA'RLEtyjiN. »./.

Charles le quint.

fhort tail, that moves by leaps, remarkable for timidity, vigilance, and fecundity ; the common game of hunters.

Hurtfulnefs;

The general fort are wicker hives, made of privet,

Hare and Here, differing in pronuncia-

toiit,

than fpending his time not only vainly, but Mrnr.
A/ibam.
fully in fuch kind of exetcifc.

Ha'rmfulness.

willow, or harl, daubed with cow-dung.

ftub-

vicioufly

Tbemjon.

Invite you forth

Harl. n.f.
1. The filaments of flax.
2. Any filamentous fubftance.

•Sox/i.

fabrick.

A fcholar is belter occupied in playing or (Ieepit>|,

Hark how loud the woods

from the received opinions of tVieir

country?

3. Confident;
born.

HAR

HAR

HAR

His dearly loved fquirc
His fpear of heben-wood behind him bare,
Whofe harmful head, thrice heated in the fire.
Had riven many a breaft with pike-head fcjuarc.

Ml/ton,
Harmoni'jus numbers.
The verfe of Chaucer is not harmonious to us:
they wholived with him, thought it mufical. Dryden,

Harmo'niously. eid'v. [from harmonious.]

Spen/cr.

Let no man fear that

barm/ul creature lefs, becaufe he fees the apoftle fafe from that poifon. Hall.

The earth brought forth ftuit atid food for man,
Raleigb.
without any mixture of Ajrm/ii/ quality.
For flax and oats will burn the tender field.

I.

With juft adaptation and proportion of
parts to each other.

Not chaoi-like, together crufli'd and bruis'd
But as the world, harmoniou/ly con{\si*di

Dryden.

Where order in variety we fee.
And where, tliough all things di(rcr, they agree. Po/ie,

HA'RMFULi,Y.fl</'r. [from>!i<7rOT/a/.] Hurtfully; noxioufly; detrimentally.

That all thefe diftances, motions, and quantities
of matter (liould be fo accurately and harmonioujiy
adjufted in this great variety of our fyftem, is above

And flecpy poppies harmful haivefts yield.

the

H AR

Hit fortuitous hits of blind material auks, and maft I
wifdom. 1
flow from that eterual fountain of

It is ufed through both theTeutonick and

Roman dialefts, and has been long in ufe.

certainly

Benllcy.

2. Mufically ; with concord of founds.
Ifwe lock upon the world as a mulical inftrnmcnt,
wdl-tuncd: and harmaiiimjly ftruck, wc ought not
makes the
to worlhip the inllrumenty but him that
i^fdhngPrt.
mufick.

A lyre

Arion.wlien through tempefts cruel wreck

Through the fweet mufick which
make,

his

barf did

Allur'd a dolphin him from death to eafe.
They touch'd their golden barfs, and

hymning

other.

The pleafures of the eye and ear are but the efk(\i of equality, good proportion, or correfpondence j
lb that eijuality and correfpondence arc the caufes of
Baton.
harmony.

The hjrmyny of things.

prais'd

The mufe»fung, .Apollo touch'd the lyre.

The (hell aslightert, hrtl begins to rife ;
Thus when fweet (irpheus flruck to lilt'ning rocks
Cracb.
He fenfes gave, and ears towither'd oaks.
To Harp. t;. ». [harper, French from the
noun.j

To play on the harp.

Cb^yntr,

of found

mufical con-

;

cord.

The found
Symphonious, of ten thoufand harps that tun'd
Milton.
Angelic barnunUs.
Harmony is a compound idea, made up of different

In us both one loul.
Harmony to behold ^n wedded pair
More grateful than harmonious founds to th' car.
Milion.

no fooner in my heart divinM,

The helmed cherubim,
And fvvordcd fcraphini.
Arc feen in glitt'ring ranks with wings difplay'd,
Harfing in loud and folemn quire.

Milton.

HA'RXESS. n. f. \barMf,s, Fr.] fuppofed
from iern or hiern, Runick
and Erfe, iron.

hiairn, \A'el(h

;

That from his head no place appeared to his feet.
S^tnfir.

Of no right, nor colour like to right.

He doth (ill fields with hatnrfs.

:

Proud and difdainl'ul, barfing on what I am.
Not what he knew I was. Sbakeff. Ant. and Cleof.

the harp.

Loud as the fca that nomilh'd him he roar'd. Waller.
harpoon.'\

^

Harpo'on.

French.]

4.

Jtr. xl/i. 4.
When I plow my i^round, my horfc is barnrj/^d
plough.
Halt'i Orig. ofAJankind.
and chained to my
To the barnrfftd yoke
They lend their Ihouldcr, aud begin their toil.

n.

/.

fyc,

;

to ft|;ip ; to lay wafte.

French.]

The harpiet vfcrt

Sec

fame

the

thing.

As the king did excel in good comr.onwe.ilth
laws, fu he had in fecret a dcftgn to ni.ike ufe of
them, as well for colle^ing of tieafure as forcor*
reefing of manners ; and fo meaning thereby ta
barrow his people, did accumulate them the rather.
5.

To invade

;

to harafs

with

incurfions,

[From )3<t»i5ian, Saxon.] Obfoletc.
And he that /jarr:tw*d hell with heavy ftowre.
The faulty fouls from thence brought to liis heavenly
i^airy Q^teen.

Moft glorious Lord of life, that on this day
Did'ft make thy triumph over death and fin ;
And having «arrii'a''^hell, did'ft bring away
Captivity thence captive, us to win.
Sfenfer.

a muGcal inftru-

Ha'rpy. n, f. [harfyia, Latin; harpie, harI.

To pillage

Harrv, which in Scottifti is

A

ment, ftrung with wires, and played by

Ham JtX^z horfes, and get up the horfemen, and

;

Sbakeff.
Imagine you bohold me bound and fcourg'd,
My aged m\i(c\cs barra^v'd up with whips
Or hear me groaning on the rending rack.
Rowe.

Fr. from

ftriking keys.
Sftnfir.

unfold, whofelighteft word-

Make thy twoeyes, like ftars, ftart from their fphcres.

bowrc.

n. f,

Ha'rpsichord.

Rovie.

ftand forth with your hamlets.

HARP. n.J. [h«arp,Saxon

1 could a tale

Sbakeff.

Would barrow, up thy foul, freeze thy young blood.

harping iron.

To fixhorfes In their traces.
Before the door her iron chariot flood.
All ready batnrjfed for journey new.

Joi.

He that throws the harpoon
[harpoit,

Tuffer.

Let the Volfcians

in whale fiftiing.

To Harness.i). a, [from the noun.]

by fome manner of

Bacon.

Who, when he fclr hu tide fo rudely goar'd,
\harponeur,

time,

Plow Rome and barrow Italy,
3. To tear up ; to rip up.

The boat which on the firfl alTault did go,

n. f.

in

Can'ft thou bind the unicorn with his bond in the
furrow > or will he barrow the vaUeys after thee ?

handle, with which whales are ftruck and

Harpone'er.

barrow

To break with the harrow.

A bearded dart with a line faftened to the

Dryien,

2.

Mortimer,

Not only thy peafon, but alfo thy beans.

Ha'rpinc /r»». »./. [from harpago, Li\in.'\

Or will thou ride > Thy horfcs (hall be trapp'd,

Full fifty years, harntfs'd in rugged fteel,

up and down.

means.

7Vf*r//.

Struck with a barfing iron the younger foe j

haveendut'd the biting Winter's blaft.

Friend,

—

carriages we fay getr.

Sbakejfrare.

teeth,

The land with daily care
Iseiercis'd,and with an iron war
Of rakes and harrovjs.
Dryden.
Two fmall harro-ws, that clap on each (ide of the

Never will I truft to fpeeches penn'd.

Nor to {hx motion of a fchoolboy's tongue ;
Nor wooe in rhime, like a blind barfer'i fong. Sbak.
I'm the god of the harp: Itop, my laircft: in vain;
Nor the harp, nor iht barter, could fetch her again.

caught.

Todrcfs in armour.
He was harnijl light, and to the field goes he.

with

drawn over fowed ground to break the
clods, and throw the earth over the feed.

2.

For inequality ; but let your reafon fervc
Sbak. MeaJ.fpr Meaf.
For thv good caution, thanks
Thou'ft barf'd my fear aright. Sbakeff. Macittb.
He feema

:

1

crofting each other, and fet

Gracious duke,

The traces of draoehtKorfcs, particularly
of other
of carriages of pleahire or ftate

1.

harcke,

;

A frame of timbers

German, a rake.]

ridge, harrow it right

Harf not on that, nor do not banifh reafon

Hhakrff.

IKclr hgrneji ftudded all with gold and pearl. Sbak.
*
Their (teeds around.
Free f(om the barnrfi, graie the flow'ry ground.

Now nothing's left, but withcr'd, pale, and (hrunk.
To bawd for others, and go (hares with punk. Swift.

To touch any pafiion, as the
touches a ftring ; to dwell on a fubjeft.
You barf a little too much upon one ftring. Collier.

Great men Ihould drink with hainijt on their throats.
2.

She juft endur'd the Winter the began,.

And in four months a batter'd harridan ;

To Ha'rrow. 'v, a, [from the noun.]
harper 1. To cover with earth by the harrow.

Sbahff.

Were 1 a gieat man, I Ihould fear to drink

A decayed'

worn-out worthlefs horfe.j

Milton.

H a'rp ER. n. J. [from harp.\ A player on

Armour; defenfive furniture of war.
Somewhat antiquated.
A goodly knight, all drefs'din htmuft meet.

1,

a

ftrumjiet.

With uncxprellive notes to hcav'n's new-bom heir.

To make the truth appear.

Still moves w/th thine, join'd in connexion fweet

I'wenty thoufand nimble bar'juehujfiers were
ranged in length, and but five in a rank.
Knolles.

Ha'rrow. ». /. [chanorie, French

Things without life giving found, whether pipe
or barf, except they give a dillint^ion in ihe founds,
how fhall it be known what is piped or barfed /
1 Cur.

!

My heart, which by a fecret barmmy

an extortioner.

HA'RQVEBtJss. ff. /. [See Arcjuebuse.]
A handgun
Ha'rquebussier. n.f. \^rovaharqttebufs.'\
One armed with a harquebufs.

Rtxi.

harps.

2.

Concord; correfpondent fentiment.

;

I will do you any ambalfage to the pigmies, rather
than hold three words conference with this barfy,
Sbakeffearr.

heard the voice of harpers barfing with their

Walls.

found* united.

I

1

A ravenous wretch

2.

Harrida'n. n.f. [corrupted from haridellf,.

Next Ihines the Ijarf, and through the liquid fkies

.

Sure infinite wifdom muftaccomplilhall its works
with confumate harmory, proportion, and regularity.

Drydin.

A conftellation.

2.

1 .

Denbam.

Milton.

Nor wanted tuneful barf, nor vocal quire ;

As well as that of founds, from difcord fprings.

3.

Spenfer,

God and his works.

The juft adaptation of one part to an-

Locke.

;

He forth was thrown into the greedy fcas.

Love firft invented verfe, and I'orm'd the rhime,
The motion meafur'd, harmMi^'d the chime.

2. Juft proportion

much a truth, as that a fquarc is not a circle.

an inftrument ftrung with wire
and commonly ftruck with the finger.

mufical.

1.

|

Ven. Fort.
1.

Proportion ; muficalnefs.
To Ha'rmonize. v. a. [from harmoir)-.\
To adjuft in fit proportions ; to make

HA'RMONY. n.J. [u^y^on'x; harmome,Yx.]

fo defile the reft that they could not be
Raleigh.
endured.
That an barfy is not a centaur is by this way at

RcmaHuh; lyrS. flaudat tiiii Barluirui harpa.

Harmo'niousness.w./. [frotn^flr/7!s»/i)«y.]

V

HAR

HAR

5,

To difturb;

to

[This

rather

ftiould

put into commotion.
be written harry,.

harer, French.]
Moft like : it harro-ws me with feat and wonder.
Shakiff.

a.

kind of birds which

had the faces of women, and foul long

Thomfon.

claws, very filthy creatures, which, when
the table was furnifhed for Phincus, came
flying in, and devouring or carrying

W/^ French.

away the greater part of the viftuals, did

Amaz'd I (tood, barrow'd with grief and care.
Milton.

Ha'rrow. interj. An exclamation of fuddendiftrefs. N'ow out of ufe.
Harrow now out and weal away, he cried ;
What difmal day hath fcnt this curled light.
To fee .Tiy lord fo deadly damnifj "d.
Sfenfer,

Ha'rrower,.

He who harrows.
A kind of hawk.

1 .

Amf'wtrth.

I'o Ha'rrt. v. a, [barer,

Toteaze;

X.

French.]

or the perpetual ill accent, be ever refined into perfcft
Dryden.
harmony like the Italian.
Cannot 1 admire the height of Milton's inventio«,
defending
and the ilrengih of his expreliion, without
his antiquated words, and the perpetual b.irjhnrft of

Sbaieff.

fignifies to rob, plunder,

or opprefs as, one harried a mji ; that
as alfo, he
is, he took the young away
harried me out of houje and home ; that is
he robbed me of my goods and turned

Or all, or lofe his hire.

Ruggednefs to the touch.

3.

H.irjbnefx and ruggednefs of bcdies is unpleafantto

Thy

Bacon.
Bear patiently the barJb words of thy enemies,
as knowing that the anger of an enemy admonilhes
Baylor.
us of our duty.
^

No harJh reflexion let remembrance raife

fall off every yeir.

fainting by its pungency, holding it under the nol -,
Hill.
and pouring down fome drops of it in water.

Ramofc

Ha'rtwort. n.f. \tordyUum ,\m\vi.'\

it

Into thy mother's lap ; or be with eafe
Cathcr'd, not baijhly pluck'd.

MlhoH.

AdJiJon.

nature.

in a

Sournefs ; auftere tafte.
Tike an a]>f le and roll it uoon a taUc hard

the

• He
found his parllhioners very irregular; and in
order to make them kneel, and join in refponfcs,
he gave every one of them a bajjock and common
prayer book.
Addifon.

2. In Scotland it

is

applied to any thing

made of ru(hes or privet, on which a
perfon may fit
therefore probable
it is
:

that haffock and hajk are the fame.

Hurry; fpeed ;

1.

Spare him death !

And merrily roar out harvejl'home.
2. The time of gathering harveft.

Hajlt hath never time to hear.

CreiJhiKi/.

Our lines reform'd, and not compos'd in bajie,
Folilh'd like marble, would like marble lall;
But as the prctcni, 10 the tallage wiit
IFalier,
In both we find like negligence and wit.

In as much b.^Jle as 1 am, I cannot forbear giving
Dryden.
an CKaniple.
The wretched father running to th' ir aid
With pious hajie, but vain, they next invade. Dryd.

Pamon

2.

I faid

•To

in

HA Te
s

;

vehemence.

my bafle all ir.cn are liars.
.

.

Pfalmt.

X'-j.n. [hafter, French ; ha^en,

ToHa'sten. J Dutch.]
To make hafte to be in a hurry
I
;

;

to be

bufy ; to he fpcedy.

Dryden.

The opportunity of gathering treafure.

i

*

But O, thou wilt not, can'ft not fpare !

Dryden.

The fong which the reapers fing at the

nimblenefs; precipita-

tion.

Such feed he fo^s, (ach barvejl (hiW he hod. Dryd.
The produrt of labour.

Your hay it ismow'd, and your corn is rcap'd ;
Your barns will be full, and your hovels hcap'd;
Come, myboys, come,
Come, my boys, come,

3.

To

church.

The corn ripened, gathered and inned.

At barvejl-bome^ and on the (hearing-day.
When he Ihould thanks to Pan and Pales pay. Dryd.
:

MoitiKcr.

Ha'ssock. n.f. [bafeck, German.] Skinner.
1. A thick mat on which men kneel at

feaft made ft)r having inned the harveft.

Ha'rshnf..";s. »./. [from harjh,^

in

To Hasp. 1: n. [from the noun.]
fhut with a hafp.

Harvls r-Ho.ME. n.f.

wayward mood to-day ;

X tell you, 'twould found barjhly in her earl. Shak.
Get from him why he puts on this confuhon.
Crating iobarjbly all hit days of quiet
With turbulent and dang'rous lunacy.
Sbakefp.
The rings of iron that on the doors were hun?.
Dryd,
Sent out a jarring found, and bar/Liy rung.

I,

Sbakeff.

Let us the barvejl of our labour eat
'Tis labour makes the coarfell diet fweet.

1.

4. Unpleafantly to the ear.
is

3.

whence

yet called hapfe.]

Have Qcor^ to open and (hut at pleafure, with

When the father is too fondly kind.

3. Severely ; morofely ; crabbedly.
I would rather he was a man of a rough temper,
that would ueat me barjhly, than of an effeminate

Saxon,
is

baffi to them.

From Ireland come I wiih my ftrcngth.
And reap the baiveft which that rafcii fow'd. Sbak.

'Till like ripe fruit, thou drop

it

A clafp folded over aftaple, and faftened

l.'Ejlranie.

2.

hxpj-,

HASTE, n.f [hafie, French; haefle, Dutch.]

Upon the llime and ooze fcattcrs bis grain.

in oppofition to gentle-

the following paiTage

-

on with a padlock.

With harvrjl work he is worfe than in Spring.
;

n. f.

fome provinces

Hast. The fecond perfon fingular of /&«-iif
As it ebbs, the feedfman

rather fignifies unripcly.

My wife

An

corn.

fruit.

unlefs in

the throat to it.

Hasp.

The feafon of reaping and gathering the

1.

And Ihorlly conies to iarvf//.

With violence

French.] 'Fhe heart, liver, and lights of
with the windpipe, and part of

Miller.

umbelliferous plant.

Sfenfet

a hog,

It commonly grows out from the joinUof old walls
and buildings, where they arc moift and Ihady.
Miller.
There are very few of them in Europe.
Hartfiangue is propogatcd by parting the roots, and
Mortimer.
alfo by feed

Sourly ; auftere}|y to the palate, as unripe

nefs,

A fpecies

A plant.

Dryden.

2.

And taken up his inn in fi(\Kib.iJk.

Ha'scET. )//./ [/'<7/i7,Illandick, a bunHa'rslet. j die; hajhrel, haj}ereau,k,ijlier.

AinfiKiortk.

Ha'rtstonoue. n, J.SJinguacervina , Lat.]

Ha/rshly. ad'v. [from har/b.
1.

Ellablilhed hath his deeds in lowly lay.

HA'RVEST. ».f. [jjanperr, Saxoii.]

Thougii ^ar/i the precept, yet the preacher charm'd.

to

Obfi;Iete,
Phffibus, weary of his yearly talk,

ob-

of buckthorn-plaintain.

Rugged to the touch ; rough.
Unplciftng ; rigorous.
With eloquence innate Ms tongue was arm'd ;

falts are

concretions of the volatile

Ha'rtshorn. »./. An herb.
Hart-royal, n.f. A plant.

they

Hask. fi. f. This feems to fignify a cafe
or habitation made of ruQies or flai;^.

upon the glafsofthe receiver, uhilft the
fpirits of vipers and barijborn are drawn. IP'oodiaard.

or fome barfii fand ; and red feels very fmooth. Bojlr.

f.

Hudibra:.
complain of but too great
though fome of the didies be not fnved in
the exacUft order, and pulitcnefs ; but Iwjled
Uf in
I'alte >
Garth.

What have

fervable

;

you were feeling needles points,

This fpecies is the fallow deer ;

but fome tell i-s, that the medicinal A<irr/Zjoi«lhould
be that of tl-.e true hart or Hag. The fait oi bartjhirn
is a great fudorifick, and the fpirit has all the virtues
of volatile alkalies : it is ufed to bring people out of

forbear to mention whatthou can'ftnot praife. Prior.
A certain quicknefs of apprehenlion inclined him
to kindle into the firft motions of anger ; but for a
long time before he died, no one heard an intemperate or bar/h word proceed from him. Atterbury,
if

As if he meant tabajh her cjuick.

variety,

Hartjborn is a drug that comes into ufe many
ways, and under many forms. What is ufed here are
the whole horns of the common male deer, which

Dryden.

-jiature harJh and haughty.

Of blows fo terrible and thick

Sh.ihfp.

A he-deer

Ha'rtshorn. »./.

_

J. Crabbed ; morofe ; peevifh.
He was a wife man and an eloquent ; but !n his

He rais'd his arm
Above his head, and rain'd a ftorm

That inftant was I turn'd into a hart,

Sbaieff.
Age might, what nature never gi«s the young.
Have taught the fmoothnefs of thy native tongue j
But falire needs not that, and wit will (hine
Through the haijh cadence of a rugged line. Dryd.
The unneccffary confonanis made tlicir Ipelling
Drjden.
tedious, and their pronunciation barjb,
Thy lord commands thee now
With a harJh voice, and fupercilious brow.

To fervile duties.

mingle.

tender-hefted nature (hall not give

.\nd my dcfires, like fell and cruel hounds.
Shakrjf.
E'er liuce purfucme.
The deer
And fearful barts do wander everv where
Mafi Virgil.
Amidft the dogs.

And iarjb in found to thine.

Sbakrfp.

To Hash. i/. ». [backer, French.] 'I o
mince ; to chop into fmaJI pieces asd

peeviihnefs.

HART. «./. [)5eopr, Saxon.]
the male of the roe.

of language, which bears forae analogy to the baijh

Rough to the ear.
A name unmufical to Volfcian cars.

;

Do comfort and not burn.

The fame defed of heat which gives a fiercenefs
«o our natures, may contribute to that roughncfs ol
Sv.'i/t.

Like to a baivejl-man that's talk'd to bow

Thee o'er to ha,rjhnej< : her eyes are tierce, but thine

Locke.

riety of relifhes.

fruit of colder countries

Bacon.

Crabbednefs ; morofenefs

4.

1.

Sweet, bitter, lour, harjh and fait, are all the
epithets we have to denominate that numberlcfs va-

who works at the harveft.
Ha'rvestman. n.f. [lutivi;/} and man] A
labourer in harveft.

f

the touch.

Auftere ; roughly four.
Ojr nature here is not unlike our wine ;
Some forts, when old, continue bcilkand fine :
So age's gravilj' may feem fcvere.
But nothing ijryiZi or Sitter ought t'appear. Dcnhtm.

To call on his lellows the better to do.
buffer.
Ha'rvester. n. f. [from harvefi.] One

'

tne out of doors. See To Harrow.

Black feels as

The head reaper ac
the harveft.
Grant haiveJl-Uri uott by a penny or two.

Dryden.

:

4.

Sbake/p. Mer-y Wiveief IViudJor.

Tis not enough no barjbnefs gives offence ;
Pope.
The found muft teem an echo to the fenfe.

their found

:

Harsh, adj. \bervijche, German, SkinneT.'\

will

Ha'rvest-lord. n.f.

Neither can the natural barjhmfs of the French,

That 1 (o harry'd him.

2.

ufe as the key of the cuckoljy
rogue's coSer ; and there's my bjirveft-bomu

Roughnefs to the ear.

2.

to hare ; to ruffle.

it

Bucon.

inaketh the bar/bii,/t.

Thou muft not tilte mjr former Iharpnefs ill.
1 repent me much
2. In Scotland

His wife I

railing doth foften and fweetcn the fruir, which is
nothing but the fmooth diftributlonol the fpirih into
the part! ; for the unequal dillribution of the fpirits

Ha'rkoweii. *./ [from harmu-l
a.

HAS

HAR

H A R

1

have not bajlmed from being a palior to follow

Jer.

thee.

z.

To move with fwiftnefs

;

cagernefs; or

hurry.
•Til

HAT

WAt

HAT. n.f. [hasr, Saxon; hatt, German.]

perhaps from hacher, to cat, as a hatch ik
part of a door cat in two.

HAS
'Tis Clnna, I do know him by his gait
Heisatricnd. Cinna, where /ia/?c you fo ?

Pfalms,
They were troubled and hajicd an ay.
All thofe things are pafied away like a (hadqw,
Wifd'jm.
ind as a poll thai hjflid by.

Hafi'wg to pay his tri^Mte to the fe.i.
Denbam^
Like mortal life to meeteternity.
Thefe rites perform 'd, the prince without delay,
Drya.
way.
his
deftin'd
nether
^vorld,
totiie
Hajlts

To dirtant Sparta, and the fpacious wafte
Of fandy Pyle, the royal youth Ihall bajle.

To

Ha'sten. J urge on ; to precipitate
to drive a fwifter pace.

Let it be fo baftrd, that fupper be ready at the
Shakeff.
fartheft by five of the clock.
All hopes of fuccour from your arms are part ;
Dryden.
To fave us now you mud our ruin bajie,

Each fees his lamp with ditf "rent luftre crown'd ;
Each knows his courfe withdiflT' rent periods bound;

\oz bajitns, nor retards his neighbour's race. Prior,
«. /. [from
that hailens or hurries.

haj}en.'\

One

Hastily, ad'v, [itom hafty.'\
In a hurry; fpeedily ; nimbly ; quickly.

1.

A voice that called loud and clear.
Come hither, hither, O come bajlily

Ha'tband. 71,/. [hating band.'[

Room for the noble gladiator

Ha'tcase.

Stri/i.

A fellow being out of breath, or fceming to be

egg, Saxon.]
1. 'To produce young from eggs by
warmth of incubation.

Dryden.
my perlormancc, would allow.
There is moll jult caufe to fear, left our bajiimfs
to embiace a thing of fo" perilous confequence, ihould

When they have laid fuch a number of eggs as tlicy
can convenicn ily cover and i6«rc/>^thcy give ovci and

Which thing they very well know, and, I doubt
not, will eafily confcfs, who live to their great both
and grief, where the blafphemiea of Arians are
renewed by them ; who, to batch their herefy, have
toil

chofen thoic churches as fitlelt nclis, wliere Athanafiui's creed is not heard.
Haaier.

To form by meditation

4.

in drawing or graving.
Who firft Ihall wound, through other*' anas, hi*
blood appearing frelh.
Shall win his fword, lilver'd and balcht.

Is the cotmfcl that we two have fhar'd.

The lilicrs vows, the hours that we have fpeot,

When »e have chid the bafiyfoolti lime
Shake/,

IWionate ; vehement.
He that is flow to wraih isof great underflanding.

painting, are never able to deceive the light.

Drydirt.

To HATCH. ^•. ».
1.

man that is bafly \p his words ?

There is more hope ot a fool than ol him. l'rovcr!/t.
Be not rafli with iliy mouth, and let not thuie
heart be bajly to uucr any thing before Cod.
Eccl. ». 1.

4. Early ripe.
Beauty (hall be a fading flower, and as the ba/ly
fruit betore the fummer.

were batching, which I'aned.

Vol. L

7.

Hatches.

Floodgates.

Aitt/ivorth.

To beat flax fo

.is

to feparate tire fibrout'

The albcftos mentioned by Kircher, in his defcription of

China, put into water, moulders like

day, and

a tibrous fmall excrefcence, like hairs

is

growing upon the Itones ; and for the hatcheilinr^
(pinning, and weaving it, he refers \.o)\ii munduif-Ji.
tertantus.
H'o.^duard.

Ha'tchhl. w./. [from the verb; hachel,
German.] The inilrument with which
flax is beaten.

Ha'tcheller.

n. f.

[from

A

hatchel.'\

beater of flax.

HA'TCHET. ;/./. \hache. hachette, French?
A fmall axe.
ajcia, Latin.]
The hatchet is to hew the irregularities of ftulT.
Moxoir.

His harmlefs hatchet he hent in hit hand.

And to the field he fpeedeth.

Spenfer.
Ye (hall have a hempen caudle then, and the help
Shakcfp. tieniy Vl
of a hatchet.
Nails, hammers, hatchets (harp, and halters llrong.

Crajhav),

Tyrrheus, the fofter-father of the bealV,

Then clinched a hatchet in his horny till. Drydetr.
Our countryman prefented him with a curiout
hatchet, and alking him whether it had a good edge,
tried it upon the donor.

Addifnn*

Ha'tchet-face, n.f.

An

ugly face;
fuch, I fuppofe, as might be hewn out of
a block by a hatchet.
An ape his own dear image will embrace:
An ugly beau adore? a hatchet-face.
Dr^en,
Ha'tchment. n. f. [Corrupted from
atchie'vement. See Atchievement.] Armorial efcutcheon placed over a door at »
funeral.
iiis means of death, his obfcure funeral

No trophy, fword, nor hatchment o'er his bones.
No noble riles nor formal ortcntation.
Shakeffeare.

H'atchwav. »./. [hatches anA ivay.'^ "The
way over or through the hatches.
Ta HATE. T.

a.

Ta

[Tiabian, Saxon.]

deteft ; to ablior ;

to abominate ;

to re-

gard with the paflion contrary to love.
You aic, I (hink, alTur'd J love you not

1.

A brood excluded from the egg.

2.

The aft of exclufion from the egg.

— Your majefty hath nojuft caufe Inhateme. Shai,

3.

Difclofure; difcovery.

the thing they do
— Hatei men
any man the thing he would

Something's in his foul.
O'er which his melancholy His on brood
And, I do doubt, the batch and the difclofc
Will be fome danger.
Sbake/ji. lUmlel.
4.

Dor/ei.

Bo\Ie.

To be in a Bate of advance towards cffett.
Hatch, a./, [from the verb.]

together.
Sire bj/ly-fiudJIng is thy chiefeft difh,

'till the captivity in Egypt, and then the poor
fatherhood was w:der hathfs.
Lotk».

courfe,

Cry to be heard.

whilft they

2.

of milk and flower, boiled quick together ; as alfo of oatmeal and water boiled

Wiih bullock's liver, or lome tfiaking (Ufa,

To be in a ftate of growing quick.
He obferved circumftances iii eggs,

Ifji^ib.

Hasty-puddino, n.f. A pudding made

Cbafman,

Such us Agamemnon and the hand of Greece
Should hold up high in braCs ; and fuch agaia
As venerable Nellor, hatch'd in Clver,
Should with a band of air, ftrong as the axle-tree
On which heav'n tides, knit all the Grecian can
To his experienced tongue.
Sbakefp.
Thofe tender halts, and thafe batching ftrpkes of
the pencil, which make a kind of minced meat in

Qtiick; fpccdy.

thou a

to contrive.

[trom hatcher, to cut.] Toihade b^' lines

J.

batjtig,

bajlyoi fpiiitexalteth folly. Preverii.

;

He was a man harmlefs and faithful, and one who
never hatched any hopes prejudicial to the king, but
always intended hisfalety and honour.
llayxmrd.

Mortimer.

3. Rafh ; precipitate.

AddifjK.

able to Ihift for itfell.

To produce by precedeift a£lion.

3.

Dutch.]

See'ft

as numi:rou:> hutch from th' eggs, that

To quicken the egg by incubation.

2.

The large while and green hajiingt are not to be

Forparfing us!

of ignominy, poverty, or dcpreflion.
He atfures us how this fatherhood continued its

from the brittle part.

fooii

Hooker.

4. Angry teftinefs ; paflionate vehemence.
Wa'stincs. ». /. [from haftj.\ Peas that
come early.

is

the

Burning with kindly rapture, forth dlfclo.'d
Theit callow young.
MUlon.

his numbers, and his gravity, I have as far imitated
as the poverty of our language, and the bjjiinrfi of

fet till the cold is over.

Dryden.

To be tiniler Hatches. To be in a ttate

6.

To HA'TCHEL. 'v. a. [itaf/ii/car, German.]

He kindly fpreads his fpacious wing.
And ialebes plenty for tb' eul'uing Spring. Deuiam.
The tepid caves, and fens and Ihores,

Ra(h eagemefs.
The tiim»ot his verfe, hisbreakings, his propriety,

but he that

A

To Hatch, t. a. \hecken, German, as
Skinner thinks, from heghen, eghin cej,

for hafte, with humble bjjiincfi to;d Baliiius.6'W»y.

Ha'sty.i7<//, [hnJlif,Yu itomhajie;

For (belter there the trembling ihadow bent.

might mention a haicafe, which I would tut exchange for all the beavers in Gieat Britain. Aidifon.

it is

•aufe pofterity to feel thofe evils.

A

The plank was ready laid for fafe afcenf.

box for a hat.

Halle; fpeed.

3.

Ihai and ca/e.}

Drvden.
flight

begin 10 lit.
Ray.
Othfrs A«/rA their eggs, and tend the birth, 'nil

2.. Hurry; precipitation.

I.

». /.

Shairff,

Sofeas, impelled by winds with added pow'r,
AlTault the (ides and o'er the hatches tow'r.
Dryi.
(hip was faften'd to the thore;

And (kipp'd and (kulk'd, and under i6ii(r/ifr went.

His coat and haltand Ihew his quality.

Their brood

J. Paflionately ; with vehemence.
Ha'stiness. »./. [froni hafy.'\

3.

The mariners all under hatchet ftow'd.

A Itring

fee

!

tetnfrfi.

Therclhe'shidj

tied round the hat.
They had hats of blue velvet, with £ne plumes of
divers colours, let round like bjtbunds.
Baart.

ffailer.

Drjdtn.
Half cloth'd, half naked, bafii/y retite.
2. Rafhiy ; precipitately.
Without ccniideriog coofequencei, we bafilly engaged in a war which bath colt us futy millions.

i.

There (halt thou find the mariners afleep
Under the hatches.
Shake/f.

;

Hts .6^/ adorn'd with wings difdos'u the god.
And in his hand he bore tlie lleep-compclling rod.
Ihyd.i.

If your grace incline that we Ihould live,

You mull not Sir, too bafii/y forgive.
The next to danger, hot p urfu'd by fate,

[In the plural.] The doors or openings
by which they defcend from ona deck, or
floor of a tbip to another.
To the king's Inip, invifible as thou art.

5.

Hermes o'er his head in air appcar'd.

Sfenfer.

!

Something about, a little from the right.
Shahff,
In at the window, or elfe o'er the hatch.

I

And in his paffage through the litjuid fpace,

Ha'stener.

She's as big as he is ; and there's her thrum hal,
and her mufiier 100,
Sbiikeff.
Out of mere ambition you have made
Sbak.
hat
coin.
Your holy
be ftamped on the king's
His bat was like a helmet, or Spanilh montcro.
Baron.

And with foft words his drooping fpirits cheer'd
?tfr.

Soon as the fun awakes, the fprightly court
Prior.
Leave their repofe, and hjjlen to the fporr.
pnfh forward; to
I f . a.
To Haste.
5"<>

A cover for the head.

Sbak.

[llaxa, Saxon ; ^fifr, Dutch, a bolt.] A
half dooti ) 4pO( with, opening over it;

Do all

kill

not love f
not kill

.'

Every oflince is not a hate athrft.
Shaitjfeare.
'Ihofc old inhabitants of thy holy land tliou kai^ft
fordoing molt odious works.
fVifd. xii. ^.
But whatfbcvcr our j.irring fortunes prove.
Though out lotdD btte, mcihiukt \vc (wo m^y love.
DrjdtK,

6 A

Hat?.

HAT
Hate. «./. [abe,

A hatter fells a dozen of

Malignity;

Saxon.]

Drydeu.

bend.

.

He breaks the phial whence the forroivs llow. Pope.
«. That which feels abhorrence ; abhorrent;
detefting ; malignant ; malevolent.

His rival's conqucrt.

Upon the mall they law a young man, who fat as
on horfeback having tiotliing upon him.
make ufe of.
3.

Sidney.

have no Levite to my pried.

Ju^S"-

He that gathered much iarf nothing over, and he
that gathered little /£>a</ no lack.

c.

Now, O

Chapman.
Long fince.
They Ihall deal with ihee hatefully, take away all
thy labour> and leave thee naked and baf«.
Exek. xxiii. 19.

Ha'tefulness.»./. [itom.hateful.'l Odioufnefs.

To be in any Hate

m the fociety
iVjwy.

He vvas my maftcr, and 1 wore my life
Shakefprare.
To fpend upon his halert.
An enemy to Cod,aiidaifa/frof all good. Brown.
They never wanted fo much knowledge as to inform and convince them of the unlawfulnefs of a
man's being a murderer, an hater of Sod, and a
;

ill-will

m:ilignity ; malevolence ; dillike ; abhorxcnce ; deteftation ; abomination ; the
paffion contrary to love.
Hatred is the thought of the pain which any thing
Locke.
relent or abfenl is apt to produce in us.
there,
I wi(h I had a caufe to leek him
Shakefp.
To oppofe liis haired fully.
Hatred is the paflion of defiance, and there is a
kind of avctfation and hoftility included in its very
tlK-rc could

have been hatred

that one can fpeak as he fliouli do,

grammar.

guilt of adultery.

[Perhaps

He's halier'd out wiih penance.

HA'TTiR. »./. [from ha!.]

Diydtn.

A maker of

by the rules ol
Locke.
.

That excellent author 'biu (hewn how every particular

To hold

;

to regard.

Of the maid fervantj ihall I be had in honour.

2 Sam,

The proud have had me greatly in derifion. Pfalms.
12. To maintain ; to hold opinion.
Sometimes they will have them to be natural
cold ; and
heat, whereas fome of them are crude and
ot
fomclimes they will have them to be the qualities

will, in

its

own

H A V at, or ii-ith, is an expreffion denoting refolution to make fome attempt.
'J hey feem to be imperative exprcflions ;
ha-ve this at JOU ; let this reach jou, ot taie
this ; have ikiihyou ; take this -jjith you ; but
this will not explain have at it, ot have
at htm, which niuft be confidered as mere
elliptical ; as, we will have a trial al it,

zo.

I

11.

cultom and habit of viriuc

nature, produce the heaven, or a (late of happinefs,
Addif 't.
in him who lhall hereafter prailice it.

ready to burll
I cannot fpcak ; if my heart be not
Shahfp.
Well, fwect Jack, have a care of thylclf.
Your plea is good; but llili 1 fay beware:
Pope.
Laws arc explain d by men, fo batie a care.

1;

or at him.
He that will caper with me for a thoufand marks,
let him lend me the money and have a: him. Sbak.
1 can bear my part j 'tis my occupation: have at
Sbakrfp.
with you,
1 never was out at a mad frolick, though this is
have tvith you, bjy
the madded I cvet undertook
Dryden.
mine ; 1 take you at your word.
it

thcmfelvcs.
tangible parts, whereas they are things by
M-iCun.

:

13.

To contain.

You have of thefe pedlars that have more in 'em
Sbahfp.
than you'd think. Siller.

HA'VEN.

keeping Uis

French.]

i

will never

trull

a

man again

for

fword clean ; nor believe he can havt evciy thing in
^bakejp.
him by wearing his apparel neatly.

14.

To require; to claim.
What would ihcfe madmen have f

Firll they

would bribe us without pence.

Deceive us without commi n leiile,
And without pow'r eullave.

15.

SberUk.
corrupted

from batter.'] To hatafs ; to wcafyj to
wear out with fatigue.

Addif n.
malice, and revenge.
Their torments have already taken root in them.

lull and t'eufuility,

Not to negleA; not to omit.

10.

^•^if'-

Hatred has in it the guilt of murder, and lull tiie

mud

Addfon.
enlarged upon.
The gods ba've placed labour before virtue. Addif.
Addif.
Thisobfervatibn we ha\'e made on man.
Evil fpirits baiie contraiSled in the body habits of

Addif n.

That done, go and cart it, and have it away, luffer.
9. To procure ; to find.
would have any one name to me that tongue,
I

of its ,)ropct
jt would have idled within the compab
^'•X''cbiert.

me church.

to be attended with

to have given to his difciples, and which that philohave drawn (torn the obfervaiion 1 have
fophcr

To put; to take.

8.

\n the world when there was fcarcc any tli;ug odious,

'Hatreds are often bejotien from flight and almoft
innocent occafions, awl quarrels propagated in the
^''"^
world.
Retain no malice nor ia/rri/againftany: be ready
H^ake.
ahle.
arc
you
to do them all the kindntfs
She is a Prelbyierian of the moil rank and virulent
kind, and confequcutly has an inveterate hatred to

Addifvn.

That admirable precept which Pythagoras is faid

or united to as accident or concomitant.
Have I necdof inadmen,'l'aty<:liaicbroughnhis
1 Aam. xxi. 15.
fellow?

South.

C'jvcnant-breaker.

'Ha'tred. n.f. [from hate.'] Hate

;

cudom as it make 8

things eafy, but as it renders them delightful ; and
though others have made the fame rellections, it is
poflible they may not have drawn thofe ufcs from it.

to receive.

A fccret happinefs in Petronius is called curiofa

I of her

obliged to ("earch into records, that he at lall took an
Addifor.,

incredible pleafure in it.
1 have not here conlidered

_
;

flicirai, and wliich 1 fuppofe he had from the felidDryden.
leraudere of HoTZCt.

an abhorrer ; a detefter.

hats.

To take

6.

7.

taitr of virtue, and unworthy to live
cf mankind.
Whilft he Hood up and fpokc.

me with thine own felf,

glorit'y

with the glory which 1 had with thee before the
J<,hn,x\\\. Sworld was.

Ha'ter. n.f. [from hatt.'\ One that hates ;
underrtood of that moll noble conftancy,
which wliofoever loves not, fliews himfelf to be a

Exod.xm. iS.

I'o obtain ; to enjoy; to poffefs.
Father,

to make the tcnfes ; han;e, hnf), and hath,
or has, the preterperfei't ; and hat/, and
hg.ifi, theprcterpluperfeft.
II tlicre had been words enow between them to
have expleflid provocation, they *«</ gone together
Ccngreve.
by the ears.
I have heard one of the grcated geniufcs this age
trained
bad
been
up
in all the
who
produced,
boi
polite dudies of antiquity, alTute roe, upon hisbeinj

To poffefs.

4.

All their hearts ftood hatefully appall'd

a.

we ihould have tlirm much cheaper.
It is moil ufed in Englilh, as in other
European languages, as an auxiliary verb

rp.

To carr)'; to wear.

I

DijJen.

/Ha'ti; FULLY, flj/v. [from A(7/</«/.]
1. Odioufly; abominably.
I. Malignantly; malicioudy.^

-v.

If ihele trifles wxrt rated only by art and artfulnefs,

examiI have brought him before you, that after
nation had, iTnioht have fomethiug to write.
Aiii, XXV. 26.
2.

To buy.

18.

Not to be without.

1.

No more to try the fortune of the field;
And, worfc than dcaih, to view with ia/r/a/ eyes

Hatter,

in

To

Patamon, compel! *d

y'o

a.

he hath :

avoir, French ; aveie, Italian.]

Milton.
Inhabitant ot heav'n and heavenly born ?
I hear the tread
OfbalifK/ fteps ; I muft be vievvlefs now. Mlllon.
But tlmbriel, hateful %nami:\ forbears not fo;

if

hafi,

;

To fit in btili/u' office here confin'd.

eflcnce ; but then,

I would i&aftf no man difcouraged with thatJcind
of life or ferics of adlions, in which the choice of
others, or bis owe accelBlics, may have engaged him.
Addf<.n.

the prefent I have,
we, ye, they hirve ;
pret. and part. pafl". laJ. [haban. Gohebben, Dutch ;
thick ; habban. Saxon

thou

Who hates me, and hath hither ihruft me down.

.

I

Drjden.

To Have. t.

Piachan.

What owe 1 to his commands

17.

Pa:ry Slgeen.

Hauieiki and helms are hew'd with many a wound
The mighty maces with fuch liafte defcend.
They bwak the bones, and make the folid armour

My name's Macbeth.

To wifii

to defire; in a lax fenfe.
;
had rather to be a dooi-keeptrin the houfe of my
Cod, than to dwell in the tents of wickedncft. Pfaltiu,

That quite difpartfd all the linked frame,

And pierced to the (kin.

abominable ; deteftable.
devil himfelf could not pronounce a title

wives, their children, their prelates or clergy, their
nobles, iheir merchants, and ilitir .ommons. Baitn.

Him on the hauberk llrutk the princcfs fore.

the objeils of divine hatt. Bri.amt's Notct on the Odyjf.

Sfenfer on IreUinJ.
his loldici. pay.
Ol the evils which hindered the peace and good
ordering of that land, (he inconvenience ot the laws
Spenjer,
was the fiifl whii;li jou bad in hand.
Kings it-avf to deal with their neighbours, incir

A

coat of mail; a bread -plate.

Ha'tefui.. aaj. [hale xsv^ fidL\
]. That which caufes abhorrence; odious;

Shakifftiirt.
More balrjul to mine ear.
There is no vice moie baleful to God and man

DUt.

corn.

Hau'berk. n.f. [hauberg, old French.]

afflifted are rot always

than ingratitude.

Sfvift.

Ha'ttock. «./. [attock.'E.xk.] A (hock of

Sbakcfftari.
Your favours nor your halt.
Hate to Mezentius, arm'd five hundred more.

— The

The Spaniard's captain never hath to meddle with

hatt for five niilliii|»

a-picce.

deteftation ; the contrary to love.
Speak then to me, who neither beg nor fear

Nauficaa teaches that the

HAV

HAV

6.

A port

To be a hulband or wife to another.

[haven,

Hutker.

ha-vre,

;

vyas threatened

Shakefpeare.

After an hour and a half failing, we entered into a
Bacon.
good haven, being the port of a fait city.
The queen beheld, as foon as day appear'd.

Denbatn.

The navy under fail, the haven clear 'd.

We may be fliipwreck'd by her breath

:

Love, favour'd once with that fweetgale,
Doubles his hade, and tills his fail,
'Till he arrive, where (lie mud prove
The haven, or the rock of love.

To be engaged, as in a talk or employ-

we have
If we maintain things that arcellablilhed,
deeply
to drive with a number of heavy prejudices,

Dutch;

a harbour; a ftation for fliips.
and promiled to him, and
his coulin, as both the temped and haven of iheit
Sidney:
bed years.
Order for fca is given
Love

ment.

ipoted ia tbc hcaiu of men.

f.

They have put forth the haven.
Dryden.

in
If I Tiad been married to him, for all he was
women's apparel, I would not have *.;J him. Shak,
1

1.

ft.

2.

A fliclterj an afylum.

H'aHtr.

*ti'A V

HAU

AH plact', that the eye of heaven vifits.
Arc to a wife man pons and happT kavtm.

Ha'vener.

Shake/.

/. Ihom haven.]
An overfeer of a port.
Thefc earls and duks appointed their fpecial
officers, as receiver, haimer, and
cuftomer. Curew.

Ha'ver,

[from

hat!e.'\

plies violence; and,
wardnefs or rudenefs.

Valour is the chiefeft virtue, and
Sbakrfptart.

Ha'ver is a common word in the northern
counties for oats ; as, haver bread for
oaten bread; perhaps properly axw, from
\Vlien you would anneal, take a blue ftoae,
fuch
as they make htrver or oat calces
upjn, and lay it

1.

ous;

"* *"^

No lord of thine, thou taught infulting man

Nor^DO man-5 lord.
2.

Hbak^fpcare.

[from

HAX(GHTY. aJj. \bauiame, French.]

French

him.

Dryd.

S. Proudly great.
Out van^uiih'd wills that pleafing force obey •
Her poodnefs takes our liberty away;
Arid b.,ughiy Britain yields to arbitrary

3,

Bold;

adventurous;

fway.

ground
Fairj 0^,„
'

My ba-ving

is

^\ 1

'^'

"'•""^'*' <"
« ftriking (he
.'"'k"
the hrft
fhield.
Thou art not lor the lalbion of

"" «her dde,
Sidney.

ihefe times.

Where none will fwcal but for promotion

And having that, do a.«ak their Itrvice

•

up,

t.en with the ta^„g.
Skalr/f. a/j,u like !t.
3. Behaviour; regularity.
This is ftili retoined in the bcottifh dialetS.
It may
poflibly be the meaning here.
Thegeniieman IS of r«,«.,t,„g, he
kept company with the w„d prince a.id Po..,,
he i.
:

high i region ; he knows loo mu<Ji.

Sot ufcd.

1

Shak.

To

iay!^"!rV
V^'>'
bavcctetb;
fo that.
Between both,

nothing is left.

Ifallcr.

Ha utbov. „./. [hauf and io/f.] AMi!,„„
wind

which I

!.ofajr and good created!

my daughter is difposM of. &hake/p

Theie leaning near a gentle brook.
Sleep, or perufe fome ancient book;

sb

'

told you. Sir.

of war.

[from the noun.]

a feat where gods ujieht
"

Uh, could I fee my country-feat

ofZ.

ikrfp
H* vioi.*. n.j. [fi)t hehavJeur.] Conduct-

manners.

I

a.

See. with what heat thefe dogiof
hell adv^ct^'
I o wafte and havock
yonder world,

Her facred (hades.
Milton
Celcltial Venus haunii Idalia's
groves;
Diaiia Cjnthus, Ceres Hybla loves.
Pj,^^
*. It IS ufed frequently in an
ill fenfe of
one that comes unwelcome.
Ycu wrong me. Sir, thus IbU to haunt my
houfe:

.

-v.

?A t /v
^''^^'^f'

wafte ; to deftroy ; to lay
wafte.
.'"'=• ""= (oWcr fpoileth and

inltrument.

Or wander with delight, and love to haunt

was aliidged Iho bnl„g a
pic-

'

to heav'n,

dwell,

Sbakeft

1 he adt or ftatc of pofll-ffin?
.°
l\i thje
.k- one lide
ilJ^
.V
Ot
,

like

Cry havock, kings f
With Ate by hi, (ide,
^
Cry havock ! atid let loofe the dogs

Jo Havock.

'

Earth now

Seem'd

•

A

noun.]

Shake/.

And in fad accents utteis her complainU.

much;

Hol,i,ihere's half my coffer.

2.

after

Vy"^'

she this dangerous forcft bauntt.

make divilion of m) prtfent with you

[from the

Why ftand thefe royal fronts amazed thus ?

Sidney.

haunted \i%,
1 do haunt thee in the battle thus,
Becaufe fome tell me that tliou art a
king.

ittterj.

it

word ot encouragement to /laughter
-

ears.

AIJT

muft make a
mention.
Cbryne

Havock.

much about any

Now we being brought known unto her,

t. Poflelpon ; eltate ; fortune.
I'll

be

once we were acquainted, and
acquainted we were
fooncr than ourfelves expeaed,
Ihe continually almoft

Orwholhall lendmewings, with which from
?

to

,
'

AJdifin', Cat,.

If it had either air or fewel,
greater havock than any hiftory

Shakefp

that no news (lir but come to his

<('<"';^/)' enterprize ?

Mv lowly verfe may loftily arife

To frequent;

SpXfcr

has been made of the
Jfws, tells us, that there wets
fuch torrents of holy blood (hed,
as carried rocks of a
hundred yards in circumference
above three mile,
into the fea.

A man who for his hofpitality is fo much haunted,

PnW

of high hazard.

Ha'vikc. »./. [from hn-ie.]

he lifting up of day.

W*

but

Aas viii

^egods! whatiji/o^ docs ambition
make

Among your works

Spenfer.
able to teach his borfe to (top

place or perfon.

Obfolete.
Who now (hall give me words and found
Eijual unto this

with.
Saul made hav^ck of the church.

To HAUNT, -v. a. \hanter, French.]
I.

Dryden

„./. Ihafig, Wellh, devafta-'
Wafte; wide and general
devafta-

anything,
^
and confulion of all they meet

Thereat; the hind part.
Thou art a Summer bird.
Which ever in \\\c haunch of Winter fings
'I

place

tion ; mercilcfs deftruftion.
Having been never ufed to have
any thing of their
own, they make no fpare of

t.

And haughty fouls, that mov'd with mutual hate.
fate.

tion.J

and turn quick, and to reft upon his haunches, is of
ufe to a gentleman both in peace
and war.
Locke.

blood and rage.

In ti^hting ticlds purfu'd and found their

Havock.

anea, Italian.]

To make a man

r-

U

Whole right bauncb eartl my (ledlalt arrow drake >

Clarendon.

< ,
1 n. II /•
.
I (hall fing of battles,

:

Hail, groom ! didft thou not fee a bleeding hind.

Hij wife, being a woman of z haughty
and imperiouJ nature, and of a wit fuperior to
his, quickly

,

*"^ '" mg=nious'peopIe.
of wh^r^i,"'
V"^''?"'
whom the vulgar
lort, fuch as wire
baultjsoi
^heaires, took plealure in
the conceits of .\riftophaon
'^°"'»'
Education.
""^O goddefs,
,«jj-r haunter
I
r ,
of the woodland green.
Queen ot the nether Ikica!
*

The thigh; the hind hip.

I.

'

temptuous.

lefeated the difrcfpeft Ok received from

;

Arbuthn* t.

one that is often found in any

Dutch; hauche,

[haneke,

one

to beggary.

^
Ha unter. n.f. [from
hatm.] Frequenter;

poles, as you pick the hops Hack them up. Marlimrr.

Proud; lofty; infoient; arrogant; con-

I.

day or another bnug your family

TuJ/'er.

our threatnings, our mildijefj, our haughtine/!,
our
love and our hatred.
Drtitn

^''"'
Habit of being in a certain
place.
1 he haun, you have got about ilie courts will

2.

Hntng (tripped off the hmm or binds from the

Haunch, n. /.

Prior

Joy touch'd the melienger of heav'n;
he (lay 'd
tntranc'd, and all the
blifsfuliaK/r/rfurvey'd.

t-T . /

The Ajutbw is the draw of the wheat or the ric.
Which once being reaped, they mow by and by.

arrogance; the quality of being
haughty.
By the head we make known our fupplicatlons,

mc pertains not, (he replies,

.Mccne where, it a god Oiould

In champion countrle a pleafure they take

Pride;

frequently found.

his fight.
A god migbi gaae and wonder withcaft
delarht

Thomfon.

To mow up their hauvte, for to brew and to bake

Drydtn
haughty.]

is

his way,
W here he would dwell, or whither
ftray.

DryJeti.

[or he/tte, or hnlm\ )3ealm,
Saxon; halm, Dutch and Danilh.] Straw.

Her heav'nly form too baugbiily Ihe priz'd
j
His perfon hated, and his gilu delpis'd.

" 1' ""'' ='"'• '"""" "»d t"ps, for beads.
m their
own haunts and walks.
Vpl

i p

Hai;m. ». /.

ly; arrogantly; contemptuoufly.

m which one

To know or care where Cupid files;

Pull; vio-

The leap, the (lap, ihe haul.

And f" abroad for llrange adventures fought. 5'e<w/fr

Otbell.

h"eobfe^'i

Place

,
k'
A
and
birds

lence in dragging.

Ha <J<i»T ii.\ .aJ'v.[{tom haughij:] Proudn. j.

[from the verb.]

'

Sbake/p. Macbeth.

J

I.

Sv.!//.

Haul. n.f.

my doors

Ha UNT. „.f. [from the verb.]

hither they bent, and baul'd their (hips to land;
The crooked keel divides the yellow fand.
Papr.
Romp-Wing mifs.
Is Aan/'i/ about in gallantry robuft.
Tbtm/on.

High; proudly maffnanimoDs.

His courage haughl,
Defir'd of foreign foemen to be known.

Haughtiness,

'""" ^'"'^ '"'^'"""">

The
afr^s
d?
is delicate
1 he air

'I

Hhakcfbeare.

.

""' '" '"""" ^fcouf

^'^

What are his haunts, or which

blchisown.

P""** '"'"'i"? Queen,

To be muchaboutf^'

I
a''?"' '''r
In
hone(tp!a,nnef.
thou

\a his grandeur he naturally chufes to kaui up
others after him whofe accomplilhmeuts moft refem-

^ a- and
W,thu Clifford
the haughi Nonhnmbcrland,
Have wrought the cary-meluag king, like wax.

u.

haft heard me f
y,
My daughter's not for th«.
Shake/p.

And faften to the horfcs feet ; the reft

infoient; prond; conteraptuarrogant.
ObfoJete.

V.,-

to

With cables haul along ih' unwieldy bcaft,

Haughty;

-v.

appear frequently.

Some the wheels prepare.

Pijchum.

Haucht. adj. {haul, French.]

To Haunt,

Is in bafe durance and contagious prifon,
HatiJ'd ih\ther by mechanick dirty hjnds. Shakcfp.
The youth with longs and rhymes.
Some dance, fome haul the rope.
Dtnham.

aveiw, Latin.

of Oedipus have known,

our fates, your furies,
and your ia««^rf town.

ii

perfons, awkThis word is liberally exemplified in ha/e; etymology
IS regarded in ha/e, and pronunciation in
hauL
Thy Dol, and Helen of thy noble thoughts,

Poffeflbr;

upon the crofj bars of iron.

Sfenfcr.

A word which, applied to things, im-

holder.
Molt dignifies the hax^tr.

All thefe the woes

7oH\VL. -v. a. [ha/er, French, to draw.]
To pull; to draw; to drag by violence.

Ji.

n. J.

HA W

Their III hav'our garrcs men miflay
Bath ol iheir doilrincs and their fay.

I told John of Gaunt he
beat his own name ;
you might have irufs'd him and all

an eel-(kin

cafe

of a tieble hautboy was a

Nowgive Ihelautioys breath ; hecomes,

iiak^/p.
he conie*.

Ha'uTBOV S/rt!tLi,rrj. SeeSTR AWBE^RY."
Haw. „./. [Jjaj, Saxon,]
'I
.

he berry and feed of the

I he

feed of the bramble witli

hawthorn.

kernel and ha'w.
"^'

Store of iavti and hips portend
...

,

,

cold Winters"
ISacon's Nat. lli/l.

Ills quarrel to the hedge
was. that his thorns and
his brambles did not bring
forth railins, rather than
A-riwand blackberries.

il

Fai-fax.

the

mantionforhim.

I

And there in fweei oblivion drown
Tholi: care» that haum the court
and fown.
Unv^f,
3. It IS eminently ufed of apparitions or
fpedlres that appear in a particular
place.
fo (pirits i'a/.OT my rcrtnig place.
And glmtlj viliombrtiKroy deep b^aijht.

for
his apparel into

:

VEfiratio-

2.

.An excrefceuccin the eye.

HAW

HAZ

[Jjaja, Saxon; hatv, a garden, Danifli.]

3.

A fmiill piece of ground adjoining to an
in Scotland they call it hatigh.

boufc.
Upon

at anchor.

Haw.

fmallell leaves

branches
Milter.
There is a man haurij the forelV, that abufes our
young pLuits with carving Rofaliiui on their barks
hangs odes upon batvlboriri, and ekgi<;i on bromblcs.
Sbak./f-:-ulikeil.
Some in their hands, befidc
iliield.
The boughs of woodbine or 01
.,:\\.

Jjapoc, Saxon

The founding culver Ihoots ; or where the hinvk.
High in the beetling cliffs, his aiery builds. Tbomfon.
2. [tiach, Wellh.] An effort to force phlegm
up the throat.
-v,

n.

Ha'wthorn fly. n. /.

Or if the earlier feafon lead

To dance
1

windpipe, is
fpit out with a ba-U'kivgot l'm;ill cough; that out
of the gums is fpit out without ha-a.f.h;g, coughing,
Hanty,
or vomiting.

Juil as your fancy carts them.

Snails there had crawl'd the bay.

[from

like a hawk's bill.
Flat nofes feem comely

hmuk.^
unto

the

A

Coneys are dcftroyed by hays, curs, fpaniels, or
Mortimer.
tumblers, bred up lor that purpofe.

Formed
Mo^r, an

you here, you might enquire of his haymakers.
Pope to Sis/ift.

Stvi/i,

in the ftreet.
I faw my
laboiii^, which had coft me fo much
thouglit, bawled about by common batukerjf which

n./.

HA'ZARD. ». /. [hazard, French
1.

1 have fet my life upon acaft.
And I will (land the baxard of the die.

will upon all hazards well believe

Shakeff,

Where the mind does not perceive connexion,
there men's opinions are not the produtt of judg-

Svj'iji.

To grace this honour'd day, the queen proclaims,

ment, but the eflfefls of chance and hazard, of a
mind floating at all adventures, without choice and

By herald baiuken, high heruick games:
She fummcns all her funs; an endlefs band
Pours forth, and leaves unpeopled half the land. Pofe,
plant.
Ha'wkweed. ft./.
Oxtongue is a fpecies of this plant.
Miller.

A

JIa'wses. »./. [of a fhip.] Two round
holes under the (hip's bead or beak,

Shakeff.

Thou art my friend, that know'ft my tongue fo well,

i once intended lor the confideration of the greateil

perfon.

azar,

;

Spanifh; ha/ii, Kunick ; danger.]
Chance; accident; fortuitous hap.

1

witlwut direilion.

2.

Danger

To Haze. -u. «. To be foggy or mifty.
To Haze. v. a. To fright one. Ain/iuorih,
HA'ZEL, ft. /. [J3x|-el, Saxon ; corylus,
Latin.]

animal.

[hay and tnakc.l
One
employed in drying grafs for hay.
As to the return of his health and vigour, were

Ha'wker. »./. \ (torn hock, German.] One
who fells his wares by proclaiming them

Ha'za RDOusi^Y. ad'v, [from hazardcus.]
With danger or chance.
Haze, n, /, [The etymology unknown.]
Fog ; mift.
[

Suckling.

[from kaic, French, a hedge.]
net which indofes the haunt of an

Ha'ymaker.

aquiliue or ba-ukid one unto the Perilan, » large
Bro-u.n,
and prominent nofc unto ibe Roman.

Grant that our baxardous attempt prove vain.

We feel the worll, fccure from greater pain. Dryden.

J
Drayttn,

Hay. n./.

[From huk, German, a falefman.]
adj.

chance.

i

>

The gum and glift'niiig, which with art
And Itudy'd method, in each part

To fell by proclaiming it in the ftreets.

Ha'wked.

Hally wrath, and \\tti\ch b.izarJry,

Sbakcff.

Hangs down.
Looks jurt as if that day

;

Locke,

chance of danger.

Wc are bound to yield unto our Creator, the
Father of all mercy, eternal thanks, for that he
hath delivered his law unto the world ; a law
wUtiein fo ciany tliinp ate laid open, as 1 light

Teme-

Do breed repentance late, and lafting infamy. Sfenfer,
Ha'zardous. aiij. [hazardeux, French,
from hazard.]
Dangerous; expofed to

will play on the tabor to the worthies.

This maids think on the hearth they fee,
When fires well nigh conlumed be,
There dancing bays by two apd three,

/ [from hazard.] He

Obfoletc.

To dance in a ring:

And let them dance the bay.

Bn.'u.n.

».

rity; precipitation; rafti adventuroufnefs,

probably from dancing round a bay-cock.

To

His works were buvik'd in every Arect,
But fcldom rofe above a iTieet.

Hay.

Sbaie/p.

who hazards.
Ha'zardry. n./.[hom hazard.!,

the bottom of
M-jrtitKr.
S'iuift.

the

your company.

To adventure; to run the danger.

orpeiiod.

hay mows and hay llacks.
Hay and oats, m the management of a groom, will

force up phlegm
2- [Hoch, Welfh,}
with a noife.
Shall we clap
Come, lit, fit, and a fong.
into't roundly, without ba'wiitKg or fpitting, or
faying wc are boaile, which axe only the prologues
Sbaktjp,
to a bad voice?
She complained of 4 llinking tough phlegm which
Ihe b.vu:kcd up in the inoiniugs.
Wifttiutrt.

4.

meadows is

n.

I piay you tarry; paufe a day or two.
Before you hazard; torinchufing wrong,

Ha'zari>er.

He bids his beads both even fong and morn. Dryden.
ITie belf manure for

i-.

To try the chance.

1

An bax.irda^le determination i^ i$, unto HHb'

By fome b.iy cock, or fonw Ihady thorn.

make ale.

throat or

To Hazard.

tuating and inditferent efTeds, to iffa a pofibve ivp*

Mjxon,

as fmall as an bay llalk.

Drydctt.

the

By dealing indificrently mercies to all, you may
baxard your own Ihare.
Sbcrhck,

turotii; liable to chance.

Milton.
Bring them for food fwect boughs and ofiers cut.
Nor all the Winter loiig thy bay rick Ihut.
May,
Some turners turn long and tender fprigs of ivory,

Or hii-wk at flies elfewhcre, concerns us not to know.

o!

haxard greatly their own ertates, and ia
weaken that part which their places now give. Hoi^ker.
It was not in his power to adventure upon hisown
fortune, or bearing a publick charge to haxard him.
felf againlt a man of private condition.
Haytvard.

She from her fellow-provinces would go,
Ratlier than hazard to have you her foe.
IVaUer.
Ha'zardable. adj. [from ha7Mrd.\ Ven-

To the tann'd bay cock in the mead.

to attack on the wing.

cait out

"They might, by pcrfilhng in the eitremiiy of that

I lofc

We

A

Bloosi,

^''"V'-

.11

opinion,

2.

Shjirfp.
have heats of dungs, and of bays and herbs
laid up moift.
Bacon.

Sbakefpfare,
One followed ftudy and knowledge, and another
Locke,
ifcttukirrg ai>d hunting.
He tli<tt hawks at larks and fp.irrows has no lefs
fporr, though a much lefs coufideiable quarry, than
Locke.
he that Sies at nobler game.
falc'ner Henry is, when Emma batukif
Prior,
With her ot tarfels and ot lure<> he talks.

Whether upward to the moon they go.
Or dream the Winter out in caves below.

and drew a huge heap oi

D. -v. a. [hazardfr, French.] To
expofe to chance ; to put into danger.

Set tire on barns and bay Hacks in the night.

And bid the oj^vners quench them with their tears.

Sbak,

luiidt together,

To Ha'z A

An in{e6t.

The ba'wtborn jly\^ all black, and not big. H^ahon,
HAY. »./. [Jjiej, Jjtj, Saxon ; hey, Dutch.]
Grafs dried to fodder cattle in Winter.
Make ijy while the fun Ihines. Camden's Remains.
Make poor men's cattle break their necks;

[from ha'wk.'\

A fauicon tow-'ring in her pride of place.
Was by a mauling owl hawk'd at and kitl'd.

many
gold.

Pofe,
Tbomjor.,

The bavilhein whitens.

Ride unto St. Alban's,
Whereat the king and queen do mean to baivk,

;

A

Now bavitborm blotTom, now the daiiies fpting,

To fly hawks at fowls; to catch birds

To fly at

its

U

Drjden,

by means of a hawk.

2.

becaufe

<

Sbakef^ean.
Above the morning lark.
It can be no more difgrace to a great lord to draw
pidlure,
hmvk't
I'eacbam.
than
to
cut
his
meat.
fair
^
Whence borne on liquid wing

1.

preferable,

inform you that i love notat a common rate. Dryd.
Men are led on from one tVage of life to another
a condition of ihc utmoft bAx..tfd, and yet with*
out the Icart apprehcnfion of their danger.
Rigers.
game at dice.
3.
Tljc duke playing at hazard, held in a great

!

A

To Hawk,

is

>

Latin.]
bird of prey, ufed much anciently
1.
in fport to catch other birds.
Do'rt thou love hawking? Thou haft btvikt will
accifiter,

foar

which produces tJie

fort

always grow clofe together.

L*E/irange.
;

the thorn that bears

;

London i but tbit

about

the hasiard, but with the certain lofs of thoufand*
olfouls, moft undoubtedly now faved.
Hooker.
The ha^card 1 have to run to fee you hete, (hould

^opn, Saxon.j

The ufe to which it is applied in England Is tn
make hcdgca : there ar- two or thiee varieties of it

n.

Hawk. »./. [;6<*if_f, Welfti

[))3(jp5

haws ; the white thorn.

[Perhaps corrupted from
hamk or hackS^ To fpeak flowly with
frequent intermifllon and helitation.
'Tis a great way ; but yet, after a littk humming
aod hawing upou't he agreed to undertake the job.
V,

It./.

A fpecies of medlar

the LuV>

which othtrwife would have been buried is darVBel<, r.ot without the hazard, or rather not with

Harris,

Ha'wthohn.

at Plymouth is cut out in the
ground the portraiture ot' two met>, with chibs in
their h.inds, whom they Vita Cog and Ma;og. Camv.

y<»

H A2

througTi which the cablet pals when flie is

Nut tree.

The nuts grow in clufters, and are clofely joined
together at the bottom, each being covered with an
outward hulk or cup, which opens at the top, and
when the fruit is ripe it falls out. The fpecies ar<i
hazelnut, cobnut, and filbert. The red and white
filbeits are

moftly efteemed for their fruit.
Kate, like the i6aze/ twig.

Miller,

Is llraight and llender, and as brown in hue

h^ hazel nutst and fwecter than the kernels. Sbak.
Her chariot is ^n empty bjsiel nut.

Sbakefp,

Why fit we not beneath the grateful (hade.
Which haxels, intermit'd with elms, have made ?
Dryden,
There ate fome from the fiie of a baxcl nut to
that of a man's fift.
ffoodrvard.

Ha'z EL.

adf.

[from the noun.]

Light

brown; of the Qolour of hazel.
Chufe a warm dry foil,
of light baxel mould.

Ha'zelly, adj.

that

has a good depth

Mcrtimrr,

Of the colour of hazel

a light brown.
Uplands confift either of fand, gravel, chalk,
rock or ftone, hazelly loam, clay, or black mould.
Mortimer^

Ha'zy. adj, [from haxt.l

Dark; foggy;

mifty.

Our

H EA
OW efcartd day here

mitly and i-iav ;.W8 fet
not Ur, aiid what v.ejo fee is in a'bail light.

"

Aii*I»j>«»5rfelf havef<»ori). tohilftniaJl Hswt

is

-i"

If' the • buds

.'

beads or tops ;

AH kut^csm licav'n, and fliaO confefi him lordi

made our food, they are called''

are

fo beads of afparagus or artichoaks.

MUii>ri,

gcfi.
gen. him; pltlr. ?^^
Dutch "he, Sax,on.. |tfuer6s
to have borrowed the plural ftoiti .^IJ",

I

;

plural ^rf]", dative 'Sij-r.m.],
he man that was named before.

7.

Sbalefp.

If miich )ou note A/'m,

You (hall ofiend him^ and iiicreafe hispalTinn;

'

On to their b'lfslul bow'rs.
Extol

;

He is never poor

Such mortal drugt I h.ivc ; hnt Matitua's law
li death to any be that utters iJiem.

Sbake/f.
1 lUnd CO aafuvet ilicc, 01 any /^^ the proudcii of
iby foir.
S/iiiieff.
Trui and his race the fculptor OmII cmployt
And be the God who built the walU of Troy, Dryd.

'

'

the organ of feniation

and feat

Perfon as cxpofed to any danger or pe-

my hiarl.

Tie

\\\

fare our anieftor impure.

voluntaries,

Head and Ears.

In jingling tliimts well fortified and ftrong,

1 1

14. Individual.
com)Mjtation.

he could not

1 5.

Chief; principal perfon ; one to whom
reft are fubotdinate ; leader ; commander.

Sbakeff,

is

His fptar's bead wcigiicd

27.

uled in numbers or

Power; armed force.

a

My lord, my lord, the French have gatlier'd head.
Shakefpi

At fixteen years.

When Tar^uin made a bead for ^'otne, he fought,
Beyond the mark of others,
28. Liberty in running a horfe.

huDdrcd (hekels of
1

Ham.

Trees, which have large and fpreading beadi,
would lie will) their branches up la the water.
'

ffixidivard.

Sbakejp,

J

I

6a.

As high
As his proud bead is i.iis.M towards tbe (ky.
So low tow'rds hell his roots defcend.
Denham.

•*"'»'•

Sbak.

Let all this v^icked crew gather
Their fortes to one Afnij'.
Benjonfon,

Sbai.

It

Sba\eft>,

Far iti the marches here we heard you were.

Making another head 10 fight again.

The top of any thing bigger than the

iron.

For their commons, there is little danger from
them, ejcept it be where ihey hive great and potent

V
A^vrKlourMm/I
hiroaf|ioiut(

As ever offered foul play in a llate.

reft.

the

*'*''

march in order; and rebels, contrariwife, run
upon an ;^Mrf .'jge
:r 111 confufion.
Bacon.
A mighty ai:d a tearful head they are.

AddiJ^n.

Ill* tai upon pafturage was railed according to a
certain rate ftr hraJ upon cattle.
Arbulhnol.

5.

People under command chufe lo confult, and after

If there be fix milliooi of people, then thet« is
about four acres for every bead.
Graunt.

them ; but thirty ihouliuul lawyers he had at

hisfervice.

was a buck of the firft head,

Miltom

Body; conflux.

to

which his

firft be.id.

CrativiUe.

furoilb thirty ihiMiland ^>></ of fwine,

26.

The buck is called the fifth year a buck of tiie

Denominaiion of any animals.
When Innocent defir-d the marquis of Carpio to

Ijpare

pure,

Motherly cares and fears got bead, and rais'd

age is known.

1 he whole perfon.

ftrength ;

Some troubled thoughts.

kingdom were made
upon their own bead,

a deer's horns, by

force ;

Within her breift though calm, her brealt thougtt'

Da-vies.

of

influence ;

dominion.

bordering wars ii: ihii

13. State

Mllioit.

He bfjau intrench'* o'er bead and ears in long.
4.

25. Power ;

wiilioutany pay or commitVion from the ttate.

The c<il on him brought by me, will curfc
3.

Raleigb's Hijory.
Sjme did the fong, and fome the choir miimtain,
Beneath a lauicl (hade, where mighty Po
MuuiMs up 10 woods above and hides hhhead below.
Dryden,
24. Crifis ; pitch.
The indifpofition which has long hung upon me,
is at lali grown to fuch a bead, that it mull quickly
make an end of me, or of itfelf.
Addifon,
-

South.

altogether by

Sbakrfpcare,

Who of all ages tofucceed, but feeling

My bead ?

bead they never fail.
Hooker.
The current by Gaaa is hut a fraall rtream, riting
between it and the Red fea, whofe iioa' from GaM
is little more than twenty Englilh miles.

12. Spontaneous refolution.

What he gets more of her than fliarp words, let it
lie on

very nature
dclighteth in it; his mercies in the current, througlk
which they would pafs, may be dried up, but at the

by half a doz«n more, made forty run
away.
Ralcigb.
Sin having depraved his jtidgmcnt, and got poffefliun of his will, there is no other principle left
him luturally, by which he can make bead againft

nalty.

Allerlury.

Source of a ftream.
of God to give ; his

It is the glory

Addifon.

it.

and duty to fatisfy ourupon which our wlrole conduct

int'reft,

depends.

I

Zj-.-

feconded

For crowns audchaplcts to adorn thy ^ou/.
Dryd^
\ could 1^)1) have offers, that fome, who held tfieir
beadi highei, would be glad to actept.
Sivifi.
a.

Burnet's Tbeory,
'Tis our great
felves on this iiW,

my power.
Shake/p.
Two valiantgentlemen making i^'Ji/againft them,

fcUiipcMble height ofloiticltlliade.
Milton.
'i'hcdcvvy paths of meadows we will tread.

S-uift.

only fuch as belong to the natural world.

Sometimes hath Hetiry Bolingbroke made bead

0\tt bead up-gr<w

P^t.

22. Principal topick of difcourfe.
Thefe beads are of a mixed order, and we propofe

.igainrt

Veir.-healing»er»en, and iwi/purjingdill. Hffi/.

J I.

Ljdies think they gain a point when they have
hulbaiids to buy them a laced iwc/, or a

Addifon.

of thought.

Cf.iT. xlvii.

fine petticoat.

11.

the part of the animal that contains the

upon the bed's /«i*/.

The brain.

tftaze'd tlieir

The ravilhers turn bead, the fight renews. Dtyden.
Refinance; hoftile oppofition.
Then nude he bead againd bis enemies.
And Hyinner flew.
Fairy S^ueen.

by contradion bead.]

Upper part of a bed.

As Eaftem prielH in giddy circles run.
And turn their beads to imitate the fun.
21. Drefe of the head.

10. Face; front; forepartThe gathering crowd purfuej ;

huofd, Dutch ; he^ed, old Englifll, whence

brain or

zo.

grievances the nation had fullered under king George.

Saxon

heajrb,

Mtrttmer.

The blade of an axe.
A ijian fctcheth a ftroke with the ate to cut dewa

Ifrael bowed

We laid our lieajt together, to eonfider what
'

five, days before it bo
twice a-day, and. beat«

jDcarr. xix. j.

19.

we exprefs ourfelves nvetaphorically, and

in relation to her commode.

it

the Ipee, and the bead (lippeth from the helve.

fpcak in relation to his underilanding ; and when we
(ay of a woman (he has a fine bead, we fpeak only

In the two lail fcofcs he is rather a noun
than pronoun.

[heapob,

8.

1

tor*?.

i\nz brad,

into the calk, iHrring

ingdown the bead or yeaft into it.

When in ordinary difcourfc we fay a man hjs a

different deiioniinations.
The bc'i in birds have the faircil feathers. Bjctiit,

I.

pjit

Reynard, never trouble your head, but leave
L'EjIioKge.
Work with all the eifc «od fpaed you can, wiibi
out breakinj your bead, and being lo very induftrious in ttarting fcruples.
Dryjtr,
The lazy and kiicQafiderate took up their notions
by chance, without much beating their beadt about
them.
I,ocke.
If a man Ihevrs that hfr, has.no religion, wliy
(hould we think that he heats his lmid,mi trii/blcshimfclf te csamine the grouuds of this or that doc.
trine ?

Male : as, a kf bear, a ht goat. It is
ufed where the male and female have not

». /.

Let it i^and in a 1u,b four or

Countonan(« ;

(hat to mc.

That little hath, but Ir that much defirei. Daniel.
3. Man or male being.

HKAl).

Dryden^

That which rifeson the top.

17.

;

word.

5.

Thfir beads are turn'd to fea, their fteras to (hore,

fays

the perfon.
It fomeiimcs
ftands tvithout reference to any foregoing

4.

RaJei^t
His gallics moor;

:

M'Jicn.

By gallies with brazen, ii-.r^i- Ihe might traafport
over Indus at once three hupdrcd thoufand foldier;;.
,

'

9. Uiiderftanding ; faculties of the mind :
cominonly in a ludicrous fenle.
The wenches laid their hcAjt together. L'EJhan
A foi «ndi a goal weal down a well to drink the
goat fell to hunting whicli way to g^t back
Ok

Milton.

Him firft, him laA. i/CTOiiJIt

The man

.

.-fM'.:' ;/,'
prefiince.
Kidiaijlnpt fiv froth hence bath bid bis Asf^J
ShaUfp. R. U.
With Cain go waijder through the (hade of night,
And never (liew thy he^J by day or light. Sbah/f.Ere to-morrow's fun ihall drew his bead. Dry,!.

So (.heer'd bthii tair fjioufr, and (]>e «» checr'd.
Miltun
When Adam wak'd, be on his fide
7tfV/e«.
Leaning halt rais'd hung over her.
Thus talking, haad in Ivaod along thfy pafi'd

kf'unt,

,

The fore part of any thing, as of a Ihip.

16.

'

'

tjje firll j^lace.

Place of command.
An army of fourfcore thoufand troops, with the
duke of Marlborough u the bead of them, could do
allying.
Aidifon on ibe War.

8.

Sbukef^ai e.

Adam fpoke ;

Place of h'ono,i)r ;

Kotwithftaoding all the jiiitici;? 1ml taken thejr
places upon the Befld^, they nude rui«n for the old
knight at the i&ji/o/tnem.
Addijhn,

,

All the confpiraton, Tave oifly /-f

2.

,

_

I

Sbakrfp.
Fcedand regaid /'/« nor.
I am weary ol thumixin ; would iwvi|SuM chau^.

(ignities tlu

for it

•

i

I5 .

'1

Did that they did in •..ivy of great Caefar.

term ;

exjuivocal

,^fflKj'_(»finail, orof a.pin, a> welLasiofajiiHiim^l.

;

/At-w. r^>-,

1.

Head is an

.

Tbim/M,

He. pnnoutt.
'

Halts.

T±p «Jf.i/r pf t(i3 chief ftfls .(jfrphiloriiphy, as
Ttialcs, Ana^agocis, and P}thjgpi-as,|did 'i;on(eut to
this tradition. •
Tllhii/b^r.

Oft engerdo'd by the h.ixy North,
lyI>ri'iJ>*>n mjriads, inf^il ai-,mi,es waft.

|

He ^ave hit able horfe the head.
And bounding forward (truck hisagile heels
Again the panting fides of his poor jade

Up to the rowcl-iicad.
Sbakefp
freedom from reftraint j a
metaphor from horfemanfhip.
Cod will not admit of the palTionate man's apo-

29. Licence ;

logy, that be has fa lung given

ilia

unruly palGons
tJifir

H EA

H^filA'

their bttJ, that he cannot ncnv govern nar contreul

ereAed like a Icind of-pinnacle on the verf top oT the

Smth.
to roots.

them.

'H E A

'

4. It IS vtry negligently ufed by Shnh/pearr.

Addi/oH.

he.id.

'

Hence will I drag thee headlong by the hee'j.

He'auer. tt.f. [from head,]
Unto a dunghill, which (hall be tliy grave. Sbak'/p.
Hawiarn«[« hide their f«clliD^/6n>i/ibelcrW|
1. One that heads nails, orpins, or the like.
iHe'aumould-shot, h. /. [head, mould,
And how thecl»(ingcole«orls upwardsjrow. dry. 2. The fii^ft brick in the angle;
andj^'jt.] This is when the futures of ttie
31. Head and Shoulders. By force;. viof the beadtr of one fide of the wall is toothed as
30.

It is very improperly applied

I

]

fknll, generally the coronal, ride ; that is

I

lently.

much as the'rtt-ctchcr on

the outfide, it would be a'
(Ironger toofhmg, and the joints of the Headm of one

People thit hit upon a thought that ticklet ^hem,
will be ftill bringing it in Sy tnJ and JloulJers,

fide

L'Ejlrargt.
mtx and over, in feveral companies.
They bring in every figure of Tpeech, bead and

be

in the middle of the benders of the

He'adcargle.

Jhnuiders by main force, in fpite of nature and their

Moxon.
[head and gargle.]

».

J',

A difeafe, I fuppofe in cattle.

Ftltr.n.

fubj«ar.

woiild'

courfe they lie upon of the otherfide.

i^ve ilicir edges fliot over one another
Ahich is frequent in infants, and occa-

1

I

fions convulCons and deaths.

'

.

For the beadgarg/epvc powder of fenugreek.

_

HiJiD. adj. Chief; principal; as the bead

pulled oflT my headpiece, and humbly entrcatfd
1
her pardon, or knowledge why Ihc was cruel. Sidney.
The word isgiv'n ; with eager fpeed they lace
The (hining headpiece, and the Ihield embraoe.

Mttrf inter.
I

[

.Workman ; the /xad inn.
The horCe made their efcape to Winchcftcr, the

He'adiness. ». /. [from /Kadji.] Hurry;

Clarendon.

;

'iead quarters.

To lead; to

obftinacy.

,

Abas, whofeem'd our friend, is either fled,

all other govcrnours, from him ihat beadt an army to
him that is maftcr of a family, or of one Imgle t'erStutb.
vant.
This lord had beaded his appointed bands,
Prior.
In firm allegiance to his king's comm.inds.

To behead

H

Prom6ntory cape.
An licroick play ought to be an imitation of an

1.

Dryden.

head.

Ground under hedges.
Now down with the grafs upon headlands about.

2.

If you headxcA hang all that oBend that way but
for ten years together, you'll be glad to give out a
Sbakeff.
commiifion for more heads.
3. To£t any thing with a head or princi-

That groweth in Ihadow fo rank and fo ftout.

7iijtr.

He'adless, ci//''. [Uomhead.]
beheaded.
1 . Without an head

Of cornel-wood a fpcar upright,

^

Sfen/er.
1 would remove thefe tedious (tumbling blocks,

Dryden.

And fmooth my way upon their headlejs necks. Sbak.

A beadlefs carcafe, and a namelefs thing.

Mirtimer.
Pain in
[iJ^ff</ andflf^.]

(land beaMr/s 3}io\it fcvenleen years.

from llie cruel iWacfc,
Stdiey.
BJches do not prcferve.
Nothing morecipofes to beadacbs, colds, catarrhs,
and coughs, than keeping the head warm.
Locke.

either of witlefs headincfs in judging, or oi bradlrfs
Spenfer.
hardinefs in condemning.

He'adlong. adj.

Itfuddenly
I/aiab.

a fubordiii.t'.e cpnftable.

Here lies John Dod, a fcrvant of God, to whom
he It gone,
mother, filler or brother, he never knew

none
A headbartugh and a conftable, a man of fame.
The firftof his houfe, and laftof hisname. Cumden.
%\\\% none are able to break thorougli,
IJudiirai.
Until they're freed by head of iorougb.

Hp-'adbress. »./. [head and dre/i.
woman's head.
i. The covering of a

I

'U look no more.

Topple down beadl'^i:g.
Sbakefp.
Who, while he ilccring view'd the flars, and bore
His courfe from Africk to the Latian iliore.
Oryden.
Fell br.id/ong down.
Hradiong Irom thence the glowing fury fprings.

And o'er the Theban palace fpreads her wings. Pope.
a. Rafhly; without thought precipitately.
;

To give Ahab fuch warning as might infallibly
have prevented his dellruClion, was ettccraed by him
evil; and to pufti him on if.»t//o«^ into it, bccaufe
South.
he was fond of it, was accounted good.
Some alk for envied pow'r, which publick hate
Purfues, and hurries beadkng to their late,
Dryden.
D.iwn go the titles.

Pcpt,

prominent on the hgiJ.
Among birds the males very often appear in a
be a

corob, a tirft of leathers, or a natural little

creft,

a

plume.

Cottier.

n. f,

Dignity;

[itova head ,]

authority; chief place.
[head and maa.]
cutioner; one that cuts off heads.

3.

Exe-

Rods brokcon our ailbciates bleeding backs.

And head/men lab'ring 'till they blunt their axe.

He'adstall.

[head and /all. ]?drt
of the bridle that covers the head.
«. /.

His horfe, with a half-check'd bit, and a bead'
which being redrained to
keep him from Humbling, hath been often buttb,
and now repaired with knots.
Shakefpeare.

JIall of (heep's leather,

The

He'adstone. «. /. [head and fiane.]
or capital ftone.

/^cxviii. 14,

reftrained ; violent ;

ungovernable ; refo-

lute to run his own way ; as a horfe whofe

head cannot be held in.

An eiamp e, for biadjirong

and inconfiderate
no lefs fearful than Achitophel fur proud and
Hooker.
irreligious wifdom.
How now, mf beadjirong! where have you been
gadding?

zeal,

— Whore have

Left my brain turn, and the deficient fight

Any thing refembling a headdress, and
it

often

doubtful whether this word be adjedive
or adverb.

Addifon.

molt beautiful beaddrr/s, whether

Irom an cxcefs of favour, which

never 'lopt his
Sidney.
race 'till he came to a hcadU/ig overthrow.

not To variable a thing in n.iture as a
lady's beaddrr/s: I have known it rife and fall.

2.

fell

many examples having taught ihem,

is

If 'ere with airy horns \ planted heads.
Or difcompos'd the braddirji of a prude.

make their report.

He'adship.

He'ads rRONG. adj. [head and Jirong.] Un-

He'adlong. adv. [head and long.]
It is
I. With the head foremoft.

The band at each end of a book.
He'adborouch.w./. [head 3nA borough.']
2,

There

Thofe fpirits, polled upon the out-guards mraeo.^' to the brain, which
is the beitd~
or oilioe of intelligence, and there they

ijuarters,

The (lone, which the builders refufed, i; become

;

a top-knot.

The Lord will take away the bonnets, and the

JFather or

This is properly two

for foHiers.

the headftme.

Rafh thoughtlefs.
3. Sudden; precipitate.
2.

He'aDBAND. w./. [^head ?inA hand,]

;

The place of general rendezvous, or lodgment

firft

Steep ; precipitous.

1 .

Pope.

A conftable

the empire
Raleigb.

Obftinate; inconfiderate; ignorant; wanting intellefts ; perhaps for heedttjs.
Him may I more jullly blame and condemn,

3.

In the beadaci he orders the opening of the vein
Ariuthnot.
of the forehead.
At fome dear idle time.
Not plagu'd with beadaebs, or the want of rhyme.

.beadtands.

Shak'fp,

Eumenesh'ad the bell headpiece of all Alexanders
captains.
Prideaux.
He'adquarters. »./. [head ini quarters.]

Oryden.

They reded not until they had made

;

Perchance are to this bufinefs purblind.

Without a chief.

2.

the head.

A fillet for the head

Denbam.

Prickly flubs, inilead of trees, are found ;
Hcadlffs the moll, and hideous to behold. Dryden.

:

1.

'Tis done by fome feverals

Oi headpiece extraordinary, lower mclTes

He'adsman. n. f.

On the cold earth lies th' unregarded king,

You muft diibranch them, leaving only the fumjwt entire it may be neceffary to bead them too.

•

Underftanding; force of mind.

diately fcour

Were I a man, a duke, and next of blood,

ToJop trees.

H.£'adach..»./.

2.

and his cracked iieadpiece
Sv4J^.

i

His (hiniug helmet he 'gan foon unlace.

And left his headle/t Iwdy bleeding at the place.

Headed with piercing fteel, and poliOi'd bright.

4.

mended.

words.

;

pal part.
Headed with flints and feathers bloody dy'd.
Arrows the Indians in their quivers hi„e. fairy

roily brcdllplate fcourcd,

;

:

away the

fore his great blunderbufs can be got ready, hts old

.

heroick poem, and confcquently love and valour ought
both thefe Sir William IJa»
to be the fubjeil of it
venant began to fliadow ; but it was fo as difcovcrers
draw their maps with beadlandi and promontories.

,

to kill by taking

;

was their wearing a headpiece, ot martial viziM-, that
Brtome.
had but one light.
This champion will not come into the fields be-

I

lOr, what we fear, our enemies does head. Dryden.
Kor is what has been faid of princes lefs true of

a.

Dryden.

A rcafon for this fitflion of the One-eyed Cyclops,

.

unwonted words, him may I more Jurtly blame and
condemn, either of witlefs if<j</;>/^/r in judging, or
ofheadlefs hardinefs in condemning.
Sfenfer.
e' A D I. A N D ». /. [head and land.]

govern.

.

.

If any will rafhly bbme fuch his choice of old and

direft ; to

influence; to

precipitation

I

1} Head. t. «. [from the noun.]
J.

itubbomnefs ;

rafhnefs ;

i^tiuej.

He'adfi FCf ft./, [head and piet^e.]
1. Armour for the head ;Jiclmct; motion.

Haftily ; without delay or refpite.
Unhappy ofl'spring of my teeming womb
Diagg'd bmdling from thy cradle to thy tomb.
!

Dryden.

1
learnt me to repent the fin
Ofdifohfdienteppofitton. Sbake/p. Romeo and yiiBet,
But fuch ^beadjlrorg potent fault it is.
That it but mocks reproof. Sbakefp. T\velfth Nighty

He ill afpiresto rule
Cities of menori<'j<//?«»^ multitudes,
SubjeA himfcif to anarchy within.

Miltm

There's no oppofing the torrent of a headflrong
L'Ef.range
multitude.
Mow let the beadjirong boy my will controul
Virtue's no Have ol man ; no fex confines the foul
1, for myfelf, th'

imperial feat will gain.

And he Ihall wait my leifure for his ixign.
Dryden,

Your father's folly took a beadjirong courfe j
But I'll rule your's, and teach you love by force.
Dryden.

Can we forget how the mad beadjirong rout
Dcfy'd their prince to arms, nor made account
PLil'ps.
Of fa>tb or duty, or allegianec iVora ?
V\\

HEA

H'E A
i

You'll be both judge and party :

I

am forry thou

difcovcrelt To much of liiy bcadfirea^ humour.' '
,-

hale;

manuring

May be he is not well ;

mechaniclc, the biadiuorknian^
and ilamps ?

*

furnace

tu prepare

Raili ;

precipitate; hally ; violent; ungovernable; hurried on with paflion.
Talce pity of your town and of your people,
VVhile yet the cool and temp 'rate wind of grace

is

am advil'ed what

1

,

Bacon,

Come, love andiiea/r.^ to all;

,

Apt to affeift tlie head.
wai entertained with a fort of wine which was
do.

>

''

./.,.

Venice in its (irfl beginnings had only a kw heaps

m

,

of earth for its dominions.
AdJif^n
Italy.
'Tis one thing, only as a heap is one. Blackmore'.

,j

A crowd; a throng; a rabble.
A cruel tyranny; a li/af of vafTals and flaves,.

2.
Sbakrfp.

^, Wholefonte; ftlubrious,
Many good and bealibful airs do appear by habitation and proofs, thatdifjer not in fm^ll from

ibow
(>tve yau lUong icnfe, the lic^uor is too bfody
;
Vou're come to farce, ihat'talfes milk, already.
Dryden.
Flow, Welded! flow, like thine infpirer, becrj
lly-adyy not Itrong; and foaming, though not full.
.

,

,

.

,-^-

»'"
Tolo.iii.:

t^'

no freemen, no inheritance, ho ftirp or ancient fa-

1.

Sbairfp.

2.

Wholefomely.

1,1.x.

and raifed the dead, when it was pub!.|ii-d by thofc: who ihemfclves otten
did the fame
""^'•"^'^s^
Addtpt,.
Phyficians, by juft obfcrvalions, grow up to an
honourable dep ree of Ikill in the art of bea,mg. IKuti.

having

Though the wicked heap up filver as tht duff^
and raiment as the clay; hut the juft (hall
put ic
on, and the innocent Ihall divide the filver.

^

Job,

tiiat

in

beatiifutnc/x

which

it
wanu in
King Cbarla.

We ventured to make a ftandard of the bealib.
fuimft of the air from the propoitioa of acute and
epidemical difeafes.

Gvaunl.

lo the winds the inhabitants of Geneva

afcribe

their air; for as the Alps furround them on ail fides, there would be a
coulbnt
Hagnation of v.;.ours, did not the noith
wind put
them in motion.
AdJi/on on Italy.

"Jrr. xxi. i^.

he wasfcrctd lohtala^, by reafon of 'he pain. If'i/im.

the Grecian nations.

For tholi: of old,

And the late dignities beap'd up to them.

We tcft your hermits.
He'aper. ». /. [ftom

-v. n. To grow well.
Ufcd of
wounds or fores.
TUft wounds biai that men do give themfelves.

7<-IIeal.

Where a dim gleam the palylanthorn throwsO'er the mid pavement, /.r.jjy/rubbiUi grows. Cay.
Scarce lii.s head
Rais'd o'er ihe hcapy wreath, the branching elk
,

Sbakifp,

AbfceHcs wiU have a greater or lefa tendency
to
bul, as they are hii;liet or lowei in the body. Sbai-p\

He'alsr. »./. [from beal.l Ooewho cures
or heals.
not be an italir,

Ifaiah

HsAl.INO. participial adj. [from leal.\
Mild: mollifying; gentle; aiTuafive; as
Le is of a heating, pat,ifick temper.

Lies llumb'riBg fullen in the white .ibyfs.

.To

He'althless. adj. [from health.]1,

Weak; fickly; infirm.

2.

Not conducive to health.

,

He that fpends his time in fporn, is like
him
whofc garment is aU made of fringes, and
hi. meat
nothing but fauces; thty in braliblr/.,
chargeable,
and ufclefs.
<f-^y^^'

He'althsome. adj. [from health.] Wholefome falutary. Not ufed.
;

Shall

I

not then be ftitled in the vault,.

To whofe foul mouth no htaltbfame air breathes
in
And there be ftranglcj ere ray Komeo comes >
Sbak

Ht'ALTHy. adj.

\iiQxa benlih.]

On« thiit'

makes piles or heaps.

He'althiness. »,/. [horn healthy. \ The'
ftaleof health.

Sbaliefp,

heap.]

Ha'Apy. m//; [from heap,] Lying in heaps.

out ficknefs or pain.
deterged and

t'aird.
IVij.man.
4. '1 o reconcile; as, he healed zW diflenfions.

I will

To add tofomething elfe.

3.

'

cicatrize, after it is cleanfed.

Icinple.

They who will make profelTion of painting, mulit
heap up treafurcs out of their reading, and there
will (jnd many wonderful means of jailing
thcmfelvrg
above others.
D,yacn^

To perform the aft of making a fore to Ht'ALTHiLy. od%. [iiom heahhj.] Wkh-i
I

xxvii. 16.-

was preferved, may be gathered from the vaft rich*
which ivcre there heaped up fiom the ofleriugs of aU

l\ic bealihjulneft oi

A fontarc; had been made in the fjn« leg, which

After feparalion ol the efchar,

£:^k. xxW. 10.

-,
How
great the credit was, wherein that oracle

?'"'}'''•

To cure a wouml or diftemper.
Thou Ljlt .',; htallng medicines.

To accumulate-r to !ny i}p..

z.

liberally drank, which I look upon as
God's phyfick

fick,

.

3.

,

'

2.

Who would not believe that out Saviour bfaUd

2.

together.
Reap on wood, kindle the (ire.

•

State of being well.
Wholeforacnefs ; falubrious qualities.
You have tailed of that cup whereof I have

1.
\

the

j

He'ai-thpvlness. n.f. [from healthful.]

To cure a perfon; to rettore. from, hurt
or fitknefs.
"Jir.

In health.

number driven together..

,

Dutch.]

1 will r-jltore health, and htal thee of thy wounds.

^

1

Bann.

.

An univerfal.cry refounds aloud
The tailors run in heaps, a helplefs crowd. Dndeyt.
To Hi AP. I.e. [from the noun.]
I, To throw on heaps; to pile; to throw-

Common Prayer,

his leal.

heelcK,

jod the ftomach labours thus,

">'!,'"•

3. CJluftet:

Healthfully, adv. [from healihfuL}

HE.AL. t'.o. Ualgan, Gothick ; Jpailan,
Saxon;

J".

.

At lirli" embracing what it (Iraight doth crulh. Dryd.
4. Salutary; produftive of falvation.
Poor upon them the biallkfut Ipirifof thy grace.

Nor ever h\dra-headed wilfulncls
S.) iiion did lefe

worthily fince they
leverenceinihemfolves. Mihon,

'I';

'-'•'^'i

3. VicxJent; impetuous.
Ne^*r ca^c reformation in a flood
Wiih fuch a bejdy current fcow'ring faults

7fl

Uacon.

While thpy pervert pare nature's btahbful rules

Pofe.

•f

other

.If'lfd.xnyJz'^..

Huge *<-<j/>rof flain around the body tife. Dryden.

•

*

a'

.

'"'°'''"-

1

,t

;

pile; an accumulation.
The; way to Lay the citv flat.
And bury all which yet diifindfly ranges,
In i.-j/.j and piles of ruin.
Sbakc/f'.
The dead were fallen down by heaps, one upoia

Free from ficknefs.
Adam knew no difeafe, fo long as temperance

2. Well.difpofed! '
Such an exploit have I in hand.
Had you an hralib/xi ear to hear it.

Dutch

hoop,

Many fingle things tWawn together

1.

.

from the forbidden fruit fecured him: Katurc was
hii ph>1ician, and innocence and abftinence would
have kept him h^attbful to immorialiir.
StUlb.

•

^„^>,;

In beafls the fame as the

and Scbttilli.]

He'al-thful. adj. [Ixalih anifu//.]
1.

wholefome.

after-birth in women.
HE.AP. tt. /. [heap, Saxon;

.

mean to crow n a bowl to Caefar's bealiif. Dryden.

I

;

bufinefs,

H=%Ce!.
For peace at home, and for the public wealth,

For the found man.
Shakeffcart,
Wives, the readiell helps
Tkf betray beady hulband , rob theeafy. Beny»nfj>i.
Thofe only are regarded who arc true to their
party ; and aU the talent required is to be hot, ii be
btady, to be violent on one Side or other.
T^emfU.
Nlcn, naturally warm tai htady, are tranfportcd
tti'h the greateft flulh of good-nature.
Adi'/'-it.

A'.fuibnot.

Heam. b. /.

'

V

make tHe animal-

contribute to

Conducive to health

Gardening or hulhnndry, and working in vlOoS,are fit and healthy recreations tor a man of lludy o^

drink to th' general joy of the whole table. Sbak.
.He.alkcd leave to begin two bealibi : the fin!
was Jo «he kii)g'» railUefs, and the fecood to his wilt.

'

exercife
_

2.

I

IM forbear.
And am fall'n out with my more btaiy will,
\o take the indifpos'd and fickly ijt

1

Air and
'"a'iby.

Wiih oi happinefs ufcd in drinking.

4.

fay :

South.

;

'

conliitution,' Ihiough fo tnjny dangers,
aJ
a much more healthy one could never have
(Iruggicd
againrt without thofc advantages.
i'«'//f.

and jitt lo tar liu:n my Ualib, and, from the words
"Ojjco.-uplaint?
P/alms.

Neither difturh'd with the cffe£l of wine,
Nor, btjdj rafli, prcvok'd with raging ire;
Albeit my wionts might make one *ifermad. Sbak.

2.

the faithful admonition of a friend.

joMmd, 'Ifiiong- and healthy, becaufe

fickly

Salvation fpiritual and ttjmporal.
My Cod, my God, why haft thou forfakcn.me,

3.

O'trblows the filthy »nd coiitagious clouds
Of itady murder, fpoil and villainy. SiakfJ^eari.
I

Sbakeff.

goodnefs.;

principle of falvation.
There is no /pf.iJxJi in us.
Common Prayrr.
The bed prcferva'tive to keep the rainj ia Le.if4h,

Su^ifi.

He'adv. aJJ. [from bead.]
I.

.

Whereto our bealth is bound.
2. VVelfore of mind;
purity;

lickmsfi;;

Temperance, induflry, and a puMick fpirit, run.^
ning through the whole body of 'thfi pSopte
in HoUland, hath preferved an infant
commonwealth, of a

Ihfirihify doth rtill neglea all ofiicr.

over the reft.
Properly two words.
Can Wood be othtrwife regarded than as the

his

innocent and laborious.

Our father"!;; in good htaltkt he is yet alive. Cen.

'

from

free

found.

The liulhandm.in returns from the field, and from-

SluiHcy.

He'adworkman. it, f. \head •vxrk ^nd
OTo«.]
The foreman, or chief fervant

Enjoying heafth;

Hrahb isthe faculty of performing all adlior.s
proper to a human body, in the molt perfeift nianncr.

Arbuthnot,

,

I.

Freedom from bodily pain or ficknefs.

1.

Addifiin.
/

•H E A

HEALTH. »./. [from heel, Saxon.]

111 try if yet I can reduce lo reafon
:i;
This beaJJirong youth, and make him Ipum if Cats.

Tbomfi.n.

HEAR. 'V. n. [hy;ian, Saxon; hoo^n,.

Dutch.]
I.

To enjoy the fenfe by vrfiich founds are^
diftinguiihed.
Sound is nothing but a certain-modulation of the

wh/ch, being gathered by the external
ujinn the raembrana tympani, which moves the four little bones in
the tymexternal air,

ear, beats, as is fuppolcd,

panum:

in like manner as
ternal air, thefe little bones

it

is

beat by the ex.

move the internal air

which is in the tympanum and veftibulum ; whichinternal air makes an imprcOion upon the
auditorynerve in the labyiiiith and cochle.i, according as
it
is moved by the little bones in the
tympanum: lb
that, according 10 the vaiious reflexions of
the exUrnal air, tlK istemal »ir mke« various inp relBons

tt E

*H E A
tuiltory nerve, ihe' immediite Mfin of
tfjring; and the(e different impfeflioM Kpiefent
^"'"'y,1
,
iiffOTnt louiid*.
,.
,
The objefl of bearing it found, whole TMicIy; is
imelliof
iloie
aSmiiablc
*ifc peat, th»t it brings in
«»'''"•
gence.
,
Princes cannot fee far with,jhe«. own flje*, nor

vpsB the

He' A R I K n

.

with great attention.

ieiirixg

at *te

^
i

,

Cbroa. v.

To

fpeak.

He fcnt for PauJ, and beard him concerning the
-^^'^ >'»i>'- ^4faith in Chrift.
cenfure, 'till 1 have
I muft beg the forbearance of
beard out in the fequel of this difcourfc. Locke.

I might have let alone
Th' infulting hand of Douglas over you.

Louder and yet more loud,

Milton.

Or bear'fi thou rather pure ethereal dream,
Milton.
Whofe fountain who (hall tell ?

He'aRkener. »./. [hom hearhn.] Liftenerj

Prior.

He'arsay,

a glorious keeper :

fometimes final, as fywifarrf, a royal keeper.
It is now written herd:
Gib/on's Camden.
as, covoherd, a cowkeeper; )5yrvb, Saxon.
He'arer. «./. [from Arar.j

for prey iheie (hepberds two he took,

themfelves upon the mountain Bari^ in Armenia.
Raleigh's Hi/lory.
All the litlle fcramblers after fame fall upon him,
publilh every blot in his Ufe, and depend upon bear-

Jay lo

And fay, Alas

!

it was

a piteous deed !

One who

many,

A temporary monument fet over a grave.

2.

To add lo your laments

Sbaieff,

Wherewith you now bedew King Henry's bear/e,

mud inform you of a difmal fight.

I
I

you

to

make

his

fortune

knoWn, 1

go on with his falfeSidney.

There did other lite unliappy accidents happen
out of England, which gave heart and good opportunity 10 them to regain their old poffelTions.
Sfenjer.

Wide was the wound and a lai^e lukewarmflood,
Red as the rofe, thence guflicd grievoufiy.
That when the painim fpy'd the dreaming blood.
Gave him great heart and iiope of victory.
;

Fairy Q»een.
Milton.

Eve, recovering heart, reply'd.

Having left that city well provided, and in good
bean, his Majefly removed wiih his litilc army to
Bewdley.
Finding that

it

did

them no

hurt,

Clarendon.
they took

Sbake/f.

I.'Eftratige.

take heart, and when
7imfie,
ihcy fly from one country invade another.

The

expelled

7. Seat

of love.

Ah

'Ihe raufcle which by its contraftion an^

nations

what avails it me the Bocks to keep,
Wlio toft my heart vihile I pteferfr'd my Iherp.
P.pe.

man.]
J.

pleafe

it

fpirit.

hooJ.

HEART. «./. {\ytora, Saxon; htrtz, Ger-

'

;

heart upon'!, went up to't, and Tiewed it.

to the grave.

Hoakir.

attends dortrinc or difcourfe
orally delivered by another; as, the heartri

of the gofjiel.

A carriage in which the dead arc conveyed

1.

Tell thou the lamentable fall of me.
And fend the bearers weeping to their beds. Slakefp.

2.

AJdi/m,

Hearse. »./. [Of unknown etymology.]

Hooker.
are too

defame hiiil.

rcfpeft

Sbake/f.

Courage

6.

is

Whofe metal ftiffhe knew he could not bend
Sidney.
With hea'/iij p\Aurcs, or a window loe-k.
He affirms by beer/ay, ihat fome giants faved

And fo was (he dulled withal, that we could come
(he not
fo near as to hear her fpccches, aiid yet
Sidney.
perceive the hearm of her lamentation.
recorded
have
ivhich
St. John and St. Matthew,
tbefe fermc.ns heard them ; and being bearers, did
think themfelves as well refpcfled as the Pharifees.
fo few,

[hear and /eiy.']
not known otherwife

rf 'trees

Ufed with

chandler.

will after take heart again to

Reptirt;

than by account from others.

One who hears.

WorJs, be they never

»./.

rtmour; what

Perfon;

infide or btart

to courage or kindnefs.
The king's a bawcock, and a heart of gold,
Sbake/f.
A lad of life, an imp of fame.
Sbake/f.
Hey, my hearts; cheerly my hearts.
What fays my iirar/ of elder? Ha! ishedead?

If

one th.Tt hearkens.

Heard fignifics a keeper, and is fometimes

when they bene(ii not the hearer.
The bearers will (bed tears

is harder
Boyle.
than the outward pans.
Here in the heart of all the town I'll ftay.
And timely fucconr wliere.it wanis convey. Dryden.
If the foundation be b,id, provide good piles made
0/ bean of oak, fuch as will reach ground. Moxon.

5.

thrtu fon of

teafon, any fxnher rhan it fuiTs their humour. Ijxke.There's not a blefling individuals liiid.
Bat fome way leans and hearkens to ihe kind. Pope.

To acknowledge a title. A Latin phrafe.

1 .

Hafvaid,
Ceiierally the

Zippor. Numitrs.
Thofe who put paffion in the place of rcafon,
neither ufe their own, -nor hearken to other people's

Heat ken unto me,

On earth

a« heard-heart,

hear the alarms

To attend; to. pay regard.

2.

Who againft ftiith or confciencc can be beard

initial;

Some Engiifhmen did with great danger pafs by
Aiioi.
water into the lieart of the country.
The king's forces arc employed in appealing difkingdom.
orJers more near the heart titi the

;

Deut. i. 16.

Hear'fi thou fubmiflive, but a lowly birth ?

The inner part of any thing.

4.
Hhakcfp.

and, wearied with the difficulty of the attainment,
will hearken after any expedient tliatoifcis lo Ihorten
Rogers.
his way to it.

6. To attend, as to one fpeaking.

llrfallible

Barley being deeped in water, and turned upon a
dry floor, will fprout half an inch ; and if it be let
Baan.
alone, much more, until tlie heart b»out.

Shai.

mount the terrafs,
And hearken what the fmitful found? convey. Dryd.
He who makes much necelTar)-, will want much

Hear the caufes, and judge righteoufly.

7.

I

vital part; the vi-

gorous or efficacious part.

Sbake/j>.

thence the town funey,

1

to attend judicially.

>

The chief part; the

Of human cries:

^•"

Pipe.

To the gay court a rural ftied prefers.

.

They think they Ihall be btard for^beir much

;

L'Eftrange,
comes from above is for the bell.
The only true zeal is that which is guided by a
good light in the head, and tliat which confifts of
Sftratt.
good and innocent afiedions in the heart.
Preft with heart corroding grief and yean.

3.

T>c galling lhree-moutli'<l dog forgcis to fnarl
The !u\.\ii hearken, and their fnakes uncurl. Dryjen.

fpeaking.
Since 'tis your command, what you fo well
Are pleas'd to bear, I cannot grieve to tell. Denbam.
P<'P'The goddefs i«r</.

To try

'

it were fo,

If

To attend favourably.

5.

Daviei.

We all fet our hearts at reft, fince whatever

That ever faid I hearken' d for your death

Hehre-a-i.

hearts.

The mutual love, the kind imelligence
'Tmtt heart and bnint this fympathy doth bring.

The y»ungeft daughter, whom you hearken (nr

and give them
Exek.\\\.\T.
*rarning from me.
To-day if ye will bear his voice, harden not your

Sbake/p.

How makes it in the heart thofe palUons fpringf

to liften eagerly or curioufty.

He hearkens after prophecies and dreams.
They do me too much injury.

thanV you for my venifon, mafter Shallow.
it your good heart.

But fince the brain doth lodge ihejiow'rs of fenle,

thriigj,

Her father keeps from accefs of fuitors.

Preverit.

A fcorner bearelb not rebuke.
Hear the word at my mouth,

A.

To

1.

to liften to ; to obey.

;

I

much good do
—^Nfafter Page,
*

UEjUange.
liften ;

'Tf^^C/)*'

Then reafon wills our beam IhoulJ be as good. Sbak.

To HF/ARKEN. -v. n. [Jjeapcman, Saxon.]

been

To attend

all

'

heart.

'Our battle is more full of names than you'fs.
Our men more perfcfl in the ufe of arms,
Our"armour all as (Iroiig, our caufe the heft

in the

profefs it

prone to hear

.

-' Sbake/p.
And difmheritejihineonly fon.
Snake,s in my bean blood warti'd, that'llin?niy

hearing c^ mtn; charity is
and therefore charitable
Hooker.
mco are likely lo think we do fo.
In our bearing the king charged thee, beware
2 Sam. xviii. 12.
that none touch Abfalom.
You h.ive been talked of fince your travels much.
And that in Hamlet's hearing, for a quality
Sbake/f. Hamlet.
Wherein they fay you ihine.
The fox had the good luck to be within bearing.

and

i^^'-

•

'

Ra(litt than nnade th.n favage Duke thine Jiair,

reach of hearing.
we profefs as Peter did, that wc love the Lord,

If

13.
2
be btarJ in praifing ibe Lord.
And lure he heard me, but he would not hear.
Drydcn.
give an audience, or allowance to

3.

'

*

there,

Sbakejp.

Note by the ear;

4.

The trumpeters and fingers were as one found to

2.

Thou would'ft .have lelt ihy dcarfft '^fl'-r blood

the
DryJen.
bearing before fome other court.
Thofe of di(reient principles may be betrayed to
give you a fair bearing, and to know what you have
Addifon.
to fay lor yourfelf.

To perceive by the ear.

1

•

'

merits of the caufc, or to brrng it to another

Ti/f-i Juvenal.
Ne'er feigo'd.
This, of eldeft parents, leaves us more in tlie
dark, who, by divine inftilution, has a right to civil
power, than thofe who never bturd any thing al all

of heir or defcent.
To Hear. v. a.

mother Jtook fuch fpitetiil grisf at it, that
Sfdney.
her ixw/brake withal, and Are died.

'

Judicial trial.
Aerippa and BerMt^e enteitd info the place 'if
'Beln-ini.
;^f»The readers are the jury lo decide acctn^mg to

Hofta.

•
difmayed at the feeing of it.
Wifjr e/"fueh a crime
As tragick poets, Cncc the birth of lime,

He With prt)Videftct ard'cburage fo palTedovei'all,
"that i!he

3.

wa»

1

it f

m 'fmpular Ijingoage'to

fometimes of courage, fom&-

tiints of affcftirfn, fonldtlmes ofhoneflj',

•

To giife hiiit tearing.

•

feat

or bafehefi.

Cravf'd aOiTiertce ) and flkhcHii', t think, is txftne

Milton.
And bzar the din.
be told ; to have at» account : with of.
J. To
ABi, ix. 13.
I have htarJ by many o^ this man.

*as bowed down

/ [from k-ar.']

Audiehce.
The French ambalTaftor upon tliat inftant

2.

So fpake our mother Eve, and Adxin hean/,
MillOK.
Well-pleas'd, tut anfrtr'a n<it.
Great laujliter was in heav'n,
And looking down, to fee the liiibbab ftrange.

I

«r,

"•'be'' the

'

Bees are cafled with found upon brafs, aiij tTioreBaein't Natural Hi^'crjj.
fore (liey lave bearing.

i. Toliften; to hearken to; as, he ttan/
i

.

conCikrcd isstlie fourtc of vitari motion.
2. It is ftip|>ofed

Tlic fcnfe by <vhich founds are perceived.

1 .

.'.Xf^H'-

dilation projiels the blood thro\igh tlie
conrfe of circulation, and is therefore

•

Pl*ys in themfrtvej.tiawe oetther hopes nor ftarf;
Their fate is only in *>cir AcarfJ' ears. lSenJonft.n.
Iter Afarerr bed no (hate .
Sivift.
Jn all (he fpoke, except to ftare.

•

,,

pde'bf'a'colle'ffcd aodienM.

3.

.

*far with tlieit own ears.

H E'A

A.

8.

I

Affcflion, inclination.
iQak

H E A
Joab

perce'ireii that

HEA

By th' abbot's Ikill of Weftmintler Is feund,
Dantfl.

Nor fet thy biart^
Thus ov-er-fond, on that which is not thine.
Milioa.

reafon to confirm my former dealing.

'Tis well to be tender ; but to fet the begirt too
Bluch upon anything is what we cannot juftify.

16.

I.'EjIrangte.

but I

fet

Ttmfle.

reft.
_

She cbang'd

heart.

What did I not, herfhibborn bean to gain?
^Sut all my vows were anfwer'd with difdain.
9.

18. Strength;

guifh.

CompoGng fongs for fools to get by bean.
Pope.
10. Good-will ; ardour of zeal.
To take
to heart any thing, is to be zealous or
folicitous or ardent about it.
If he take not their caufes to heart, how (hould
there be but in them frozen coldnefi, when his

19.

20. Life.
For my heart feems fometimes
to fignify, if life 'wat aljiake ; and fonieI

Thou faweft the

conu-adidlioo between

tendernefs :

a hard htari therefore is cru-

I've feen ihee ftem, and thou haft oft beheld

Heari bardciuag fpeftaslei.

Sbtke/f,

Who her refemble, and her fteps purfue

Shakefp.

IValler.

for

Shakefp. Hamlet.

[heart

and

break.]

Overpowering forrow.
Better a little chiding than a great deal of bean.
*""*•
Shakefp.

Heart-breaker, n. f.

A. cant name for

a woman's curls, fuppofed to break the
heart of all her lovers.
Like Samfon's heanireakeri,
In time to make a nation rue.

Hkart-breakinc.

adj.

it grew

Heart-robbino.
ving of thought.

Overpowering

Sweet is thy virtue, as thyfelf fwect artf
For when on me thou (hinedft, late in fadnefs,

A melting pleafance ran through every part.
And me revived with heart-robbing gladnefs.

Spen/er.

Ovcrpowering

grief.

What greater heartbreaking and confufion can
there be to one, than to have all his fecret faults
laid •pen, and the fentence of condemnation
palTed
upon him?

Hakrwill.

{heart

and burn.]

Having the heart inflamed.
How tartly that gentleman looks I never can
fee him but I am bean-turn'd an hour after.
I

Sbakefpeare.

Heart-Borning. ti.f. [heart an^ burn.]
Pain at the lloraach,
acrid humour.

1.

Pained in mind.

Sfeufer.

If we be heari-fick, or affliaed with an uncer.
tain foul, than we are true defiren of relief ani

mercy.
2.

Taylor.

Mortally ill; hurt in the heart.
Good Romeo, hide thyfelf

— Not

I,

unlcfs the breach of heart-J!ck%faira

Shakeffeari.

Hearts-ease. H.f, A plant.

Heart-sore. «./.

Making your mufick of heartbreaking mone.

I .

,.

Heart-«ick. adj.

Mortimer.

Befide the filvcr Iprings of Helicone,

adj.

TV

Hearts-eafe is a fort of violet that Hows all
Summer and often in Wintar: it fows itfelf.

Thofe piteous plaints and (brrowful fad rhime.

Heart- BURNED,

Ecftatickj depriObfolete.

Miftlilfe, infold rac from the fearch of eyes.

Which late you poured forth, as ye did lit

n. f.

adj.

Hudibras.

with forrow.

HiART-BKEAKtNC.

5

That death Ihould licence have to rage among

The fair, the wife, the virtuous, and the young

Huditrat.

in' compofition

». /,

Killing with an-

guilh.

;

Hi ART-BREAK.

Ltcke

elty.

much ufed

That fle(h is heir to.

King Charlei.
Would you have him open his heart to you, and
a(k your advice, you muft begin to do fo with him

13. Difpofition of mind.
D»ing all things with fo pretty
grace, that it
leemed ignorance could not make him do amifs,
becaufe he had a heart to do well.
Sidney.
The
heart
it confidcred as the feat
14.
of

Spenftr.

j

my bran

Men, fome to pleafure, fume to bufinefs uke
But every woman is at heart a rake.
Pope.

is

—

•n^h-""*-

fifft.

And let fair Venus, that is queen of love,
With her beari.jurtling fon, upon you fmile.

«. /.
[heart
and ecb."]
Sorrow ; pang anguilh of mind.
To die to fleep
No more and, by a fleep, to fay we end
The heari.ach, and the tboufand natural (hocks

The neit in generation will in tongue and heart,
and every way elfe, become Englilb j fe as there
will be no difference or diftinftion, but the Irilh fea,
Davlet.

affedion.

Heart-ach.

Set your heart at reft;

bciwiit us.

Heart- que LUNG, adj. Conquering the

Heart-rending, adj.

mind, or affedion.

II. Paflions; anxiety; concern.

/ A plant with round

Heart-rending news, and dreadful to thofe fevr

could notyJr my bean deny it him.

21. It

tyood-wari.

The fairy land buys not the child of me.
Sbal.
II. Secret thoughts ; receffes of the mind.
Michal faw King David leaping aod dancing
before the Lord, and flic defpifed him in hit heart.
I Sam. vi. 16.

/

:

Profoundly (kill'd in the black art.
As EngUlh Merlin /or hit heart.

I

Pope.

».

feeds in form of peas, of a black colour,
having the figure of an heart of a white
colour upon each.
Miller,

Shakefpeare.

mod at heart.

would not be forry to find the Prelbyterians
miflaken in this point, which they have moft at
bean.
Stvifi.
What I have moft at heart is, that fome method
(hould be thought on for afceruining and fixing
our language.
Sviifi.

Is virtue's priie.

Heart-peas.

I gave it to a youth,
I

heart.

What nothing earthly gives, or can deftroy.
The foul's calm funlhine, an4 the heartfelt 'y>-].

bid the rafcal knock upon your gate.

And could not get him/cr mj heart to do it.

whiah had the good of their country

Mitlori.

Heart-felt. a<^". telt in the confcience.

timesyir lenderneft,

take fire!
Hooker.
If he would take the bufinefs to heart, and deal
in it effeaually it would fucceed well.
Baeon.
The lady Marchionefs of Hertford engaged her
hufband to take this bufinefs to heart.
Clarendan.
Amongft thofe, who took it moll to heart. Sir
John Stawell was the chief.
Clarendon.
Every prudent and honell man would join him-

:

But come, thou goddefs, fair and free.
In heav'n y'clep'd Euphrofyne,
And by men beart-eafing mirth.

This gay charm.
Like a right gipfy, hath, at faft and loofe,
BeguiI'd me to the very heart of lofs.
Shakefp.

Shakefp.

I

Heart-easing, ad)'. Giving quiet.

Utmoft degree.

A prating boy, that bcgg'd it as a fee

AJdi/ox.
Learned men have been now a long time fearching after the happy country from which our firft
parents were exiled
if they can find it, with all my

What infinite heitrt-eafe muft kings negleift.
That private men enjoy

to

aSediont feem benumbed, from whom theiis Ihould

felf to that fide

Heart.ease. n.f. Quiet; tranquillity.

plow ground out of
heart, becaufe if 'tis in heart, it may be improved
by marl again.
Mortimer.

Kaltigb.

Shall I in Lon'on adl this idle part

!

Shakefpearfi

power; vigour;

Care muft betaken not

We call the committing of a thing to memory
the getting it by bearl ; for it is the memory that
muft tranfmit it to the btart\ and it is in vain to
expe£l that the biart fhould keep its bold of any
truth, when the memory has let it go.
South.

Threw many a northward look to fee his father
Bring up his pow'rsj but he did long in vain

That the fpent earth may gather heart again,
And, better'd by ceflition, bear the grain. Dryden.

Whatfoever was attained to, coneeming God and
his working in nature, the fame was delivered over
by htari and tradition from wife men to a pofterity
equally tealous.

Heart-dear, adj. Sincerely beloved.

efficacy.
Try whether leaves of trees, fwcpt together,
with fome chalk and dung mixed, to give them
more bean, would not make a good compoft.
Bac^n.

Memory: thoagh South feems to diftin-

Ifood-uiard.

broke, there will remain much heart-burning and
difcontent among the meaner people.
Svjift.

Sbakefpeare.

Hooker.

fcorn all the

:

The time w.is, father, that you broke your word,

Dryitn.

I

this properly reiideri
the eardialg-a, or heart,

When you were more endear'd to it than non'.
When your own Percy, when my heart-dear Harry,

Then mixing pow'rful herbs with magick art,
his form who could not change hi>>

down,

in

btirning.

Sidney,

17. Confcience; fenfe of good or ill.
Every man's heart and confcience doth in good
or evil, even fecretly committed, and known 10
none but itfelf, either like or difallow itfelf.

that happen to be thrown

it'

ferviceable

2. Difcontent; fecret canrity.
In great changes, when right of inheritance i»

Secret meaning ; hidden intention.
1 will on with myfpecch in yourpraife.

my ktart upon one difli alone, aod

very

it

And then flicw you the heart of my meffage.

A friend makes me a fcaft, and fets all before
;

aerid humours in the ftomach

The bjfc barbarity of humankind.
Riwe.
15. To find in the Heart.
To be not
wholly averfe.
For my breaking the laws of friendlhip with
you, I could Jind in my heart to alk you pardon for
it, 'hut that your now
handling of me gives me

X Sam.
Means how to feel, and learn each other's btart.

Abfalom.

me

H EA

Such ifftn beartt we are, and fuch

the king's itiirf wai towards

commonly from an
*

Fine clean chalk is one of the moft noWe
abfor.
bems, and powerfully correas led fubduci

That which pains the

mind.
Wherever he that godly knight may find.
His only bean-fore and his only foe.
Fairy ^eeie.

Heart-string, n. /. [heart md firing.}
The tendons or nerves fuppofed to brace
and fullain the heart.
He was by Jove deprived
Of life himfelf, and beart-firingt of an eagle rivej.

„

How, out of, tune on the ftrings?

— Not

fo;

but yet fo falfe,

very heart -Jirirgt.

that he

Spenfer,
grieves

my

Sbakefpeare.

That grates my beart-ftringt : what ftiould dif.
content him!
Except he thinks 1 live too long.
Denbam.
If thou thinkeft thou (halt perilh, I cannot
blame thee 10 be fad 'till thy bearl-Jlringt crack.

the

Taylor.

«

Hcie'j

Where hU judgment led him to opfofe rt»<i) on a

T!ia(«jr« ray hfari-Jiringn but be fliallbe fotm^,
Grmvillf.
M) JiTDs Ihail hold him.

IIeart-strvck.
1.

2.

publick

Shekeff.

That all his fenfes bound

IIe.^rt-swelling.

As

fl,//.

out courage;

Jfrom

WlUl-

h^arl.]

fpiritlefs.

The heats fmUhs take of their iron arc a bloodred heat, a white flame heal, and a fpirkhi'.g or

Then hopelefs, heartlifs 'gan the cunning thief,
Fa'iry i}uern.

Sbakefpeare.

Thoufands befides (lood mute and heartlejs there,
Coiuley.
nor was I us'J to fear.
;
The peafants were acciiftomcd to payments, and
Temple.
grew beartlefs as they grew poor.

Men valiant all

Heartlejs they fought, and quitted foon
ground.
While oui-'s with eafy vi<5ory Were crown'd.

ufed in com-

as, hard hearted.

Cay.

Palkdius blaming ihofe that were flow, heartefsiig
them that were forward, but efpecially with his
own example leading them, made an impreflion iiito

•

[from heartte/i.]
adv.
Without courage; faintly; timidly.
He'artlbssness. ti. /. [from heartlefi.']
Want of courage or fpirit; dejeftion of

Sidney.

He' arty. adj. [from heart.l
1. Sincere; undiflembled; warm; zealous.
not bring that hearty inclination to
peace, which they hoped they would have done.
Clarendon.

They

My royal father, cheer thefe noble lords.

did

But the kind hofts their entertainment grace

And hearten thofe that fight in your deftnce:

With hearty welcome and an open face;

Unlheath your fword, good father; cry, St George.

In all they did, you might dilcem with eafe
Drydtn.
A willing mind, and a delire to pltafe.
Every man may pretend to any employment,

Shaktfpeare.
This rare man, Tydldes, would prepare;
Ttiat he might conquer, heartened hina. Chetpntan.

Thus biarten'd well, and flelh'J upon his prey,
Th&youth may prove a man another day. Drydcn.
•5,' To meliorate or renovate with manure.
forget not then

With richeft dung to hearlan it again. May's I'i'gil.
llrARTH. «./• 'Ihe pavement of a room
on which a fire is made ; the ground under the chimney.
Hoop'd out of Rome : now this extreijiity
Sbakefp.
)Iath brought me to this hearth.
Cricket, to Windforchimneys (halt thou leap,
thou find'ft fires unrak'd, and hearths

Where

Sbahfpcare.

8.

In full health.

5.

\ igorous

;

C.ood luck befriend ihee, fon ; for at thy birih

Each houfehold genius (hews again its face,

And from the hearths the little lares creep. Drydtn.
IIe'artily. adv. [itom heartj.l
fully.

If to be fad is to be wife,

moft heartily dcfpifc

Whatever Socrates has fald.

Or Tully writ, or Wanly read.
-2.

Sincerely;
roiilly.

aftivciy ;

diligently;

Addif.r..

10. Agitation of fudden or violent paflion ;
vehemence of action.
They feeing what forces were in the city with them,
ilTued againft the tyrant while ihcy were in thisMa;,
before practices might be ufed to dilJ'cvcr them.
Sidney,

The friend hath loft his friend
And the bell quarrels, in the heat are curft.
;

Prior.

vigo-

might have pleafed in the beat and hurry of his
rage, but mult have diTpleafed in cool fedaie refl*:-

We have fpilt no blood but on the keatol the bat-

and

hale.]

One playing at haiard, drew a huge heap of gold
but in the heat of play, never obfervcd a (harper, who
\.

They are in a moft warlike preparation, and hop*
to come upon tlicm-intheiM/of tlwir

/.u-^y.
.

.,

,

^

,

The word heat is ufed to fignily the fenUlion we
have when we arc near the tiie, as well as the caufe
of that fenfation, which is in the lire itfelf; and
thence we conclude, that ilieic is a fort of heat in
whcrc:is in
the fire rcfcmbling ouro.vn lenfaiiou:
the fire there is,nolhinB but little particles ot matter,
of fuch particular iliapes as are filled to imprcfs
.

fleUi as

wcite the finfe of

*>">'

divifion.

Shakfpeare.

was furry to hear with what partiality and popular
King Charles.
heal elcilions were carried.
What can moregratify the Phrygian foe
Dryden,
Than ihofe dlllemperM hralt >
1

12.

Heat is a very brilk agitation of the infenfible parts
of the objeft, which produces in us that fenfation
from whence we denominate the objcil hot; (o
what in our fenfation \%hcat, in the objcfl is nothing

heat.

S-u.'ift.

fwept it into his hat.

11. Faftion; conteft; party rage.

The fenfation caufed by die approach or

»o wir

Atterbtiry.

or the chafe.

tle,

Woiton.

[heart

South.

tion.

Spenfa:
Sound favory, and bafil hearty h.Ue.
Heat. «. /. [)5eaz, \)^X, Saxon; heete,

fuch motions

Sbakefp.

By thofe that leel their (harpnefs.
It

Hf. ARTY-HALE. adj.
Good for the heart.

but motion.

I bear no malice for my death

But tho''e that fought it, 1 could wifh more Chriftians;
Be what they will, I heartily forgive them. Shakejp.

ano heatt

in their faces, and broke out in their ribbans.

'

tranfverfe work.

touch of fire.

flufli.

It has riifed animofities in their hearts,

Whofe laughs are hearty, though his jefts are coarfe,

Or, full with feeding, fink into a fleep

fet out the fpeedier pace ;

Pimples in the fjae;

9.

And loves you bell of all things but his horfe. Pi,pe.
Strong; bard; durable.
4..
Oak and the like true hearty timber, being (Irong
trulted in crofs and
in all politions, may be better

Dani(h.]

ilo

Feign'd J«al, you faw,

But the lall he.tt, plain dealing won the race.
Dryden.

ftfong.

Milton.
The fairy ladies danc'd upon the hearth.
The vanouilh'd hies withdraw from every place;

I

which courfes there is an intermiflion.

Vein-healing verven, and head-iiurging dill,

unfwept,
There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry.

;

late.

A courfe at a raccj between each of

8.

provided he has been loud and frequent in declaring
Hvjiji.
himfelf hearty for the government.

•"

Drvdm.
of being once hot ; a (Tngle

I'll rtiike my fortune with him at a beat,
Drydcn
And give him not the leifure to forget.
They the turn'd lines on golden anvils beat.
heat.
Which look as if they' (truck them at a

mind.

To encourage; to animate; to ftir up.

f(juadron.

the beats.

7. Tl^e ftate
effort.

their

He'artleSsly.

He ne'er like bullies coward hearted,
Attacks in publick to be parted.
To He'arten. -v. a. [from heart.'\

The continual agitations of iheipirits muft needs
be a weakening of any coDllituiion, elpccially in age :
and many cauies are required for retVelhment betwixt

Dryjen.

Rotve.

_

Muxin.

welding heat.

5. Fermentation; efTervefcence.
6. One violent adion unintermitted.

What, art thou drawn among thefe heartlefi hmds
Turn thee, Benvolio, look upon thy death.

With a (hrielc hearl-vouudingXcui (he cry'd.
While down her cheeks the guftiing torrents ran.

AddiJ'.^n.

of any body under the aftion of

the fire.

Perfuade us die, to (lint all further ftrife.

grief.

From the heart

among the people.
4. State

Spender.

Popf.

J.

as fearing \\k heats might advance too far before tlicy
linilliod their work, and produce a pellilence

had

Taylor.

joyed oft to chafe the trembling pricket.
hare 'till (he were tame.
Or hunt the heantefs
'

with

Filling

;

Bryditm

The Pope would not comply with the propofal,

1

Hcarl-vjcundtd, to the bed of ftate withdrew.

The ground one year at reft

Great heats will follow, and large crops of grain.

eagernefs.

He'artless.

of love or grief.
Mean time the queen, without refleiSion due,

tli<;

The glebe will anfwer to the fylvan rcign

Sbahe/peart.

the kiiidnds of a friend.

Heartwovnded. adj. Filled with paffion

1.

Eaeor.,

M rk well the flow'ring almonds in the wood

The anger of an enemy reprefents oar faults, or

With the vitals yet unimpaired.

It is only

After they came down into Ihe valley, and found
the intolerable heats there, and knew no means
of lighter apparel, they were forced to go naked.

Add.fon.

Vigour;

2.

Hot weather.

3.

Derive a liberty from heariiiufs,

Drydtn.
confident you are keart.vibt,:t.
Cupid haih clapt him o' th' flioulder; but I'll
Sbakrfpeare.
warrant him heart-vsholt

Fall falling on her hands._

know

food,

.

And well become the agent.

You have not feen me yet, and therefore I am

aJj.

the

my eating 'till this mo-

IIea'rtiness. «. /. [Uom hearty.\
1. Sincerity; freedom from hypocrify.
This entertainment may a free face put on

Heart-whoi.e. adj.
1. With the affeftions yet unfi.xed.

:

The fwoid which is made fiery doth not only Clt
by reafon of the (harpncfs which fimply it hjih
but alfo burns by means of that beat which it haih
Huiiktr,
Irom fire.

admonilhes us of our duly, with moK heartine/s ihit\

SftxJ'cr,

Heartwounding,

my eating heartily of

ment.

Rankling iii the

at/J.

for'

that anxiety has hindered

Ali.'isn.

Thiough proud ambition and heailfu'dliKg hate.

pofition

vigoroufiy and

it

Eagerly; with defire.

3.

mind.
Drawn into arms, and proof of mort.il fight,

He'arted.

would do

Alleriury.

He added not; foT Adam, at the news,
Iherl-JIruck, with chilling gripe of forrow flood,

adj.

account, he

The caufe of the fenfation of burning. -

:.

heartily ; yet the oppofition ended there.

adj.

Driven to the heart ; infixed for ever in
the mind.
Whois with liim?
None but the fool who labours to out-jell

His i'i-fltf-/?ri(f* injuries.
Shocked with fear or difmay.

2.

HEA

HEA

HEA

.

litre's the fatal wound

Ardour of thought or elocution.
Plead it

to

her

With all the llrength and heat of eloquence.
Fraternal love and friendlliip can infpire.

Addifn's Cato.

[from the noun.]
To make hot; to findue with the power
of burning.
He commanded that they (hould beat tlie furnace

7b Heat. 1:
I

.

a.

one fevcn times more than it was wont to be

l<,ated.

Dan. iii. 19.
z.

To caufe to ferment.
Hops lying undried icatt thtm, »nd changes their
coteat.

M'rt.mer.
3.

To

HEA
3»

HEA

To make the conftitntion fev«rifl!.
Thou art going to I^rJ Timon's

fcaft.

~Ay, tofce meat tiU knavo, and wine teat fools.
Whatever mcreafeth the
even wuhout increafing

iC6--e!cr.ty,

dcnfer body ,s hotter than

^'

dGj-e^™

derifily

. rarer/

of the

h^arr!

blood,

ht^!, becaule a
A,b«,h«.,

'hjt they ll.ould neither
preach,
bap.,re, juarrv, bury,

nor teach fchool.'

Sw!h

very pleafing arton.diment,

Frequent for breath his panting

AJter the manner of heathens.

"^'^"^'''''^-

To agitate the blood aiid fpirits

/

'••

heaih,n.\

It fignifiej the

Hbathy.

adj.

heaths-

heath.
but for the ho:iour.

Full

or Iwallow
wlir ,r'''"^="''
them.

Munimcr', Hufiandry.

.'^I"

I.

To litt

;

Cham d on the burniiig lake

"=""''=; 'he leaves are
M and
^^°ri°*^
iinall.
abide green aU the year.

and rp^etS th^?:,hes "' '^^ -^11'* '" ^''^'

«•
'"'"' "•

_^,y„„

I o cany.

Now we bear the king

S)ay, from

3-

W

intelligence; or «hv.
*
hra,t, you rton 'our

I
J

^|^J="^e "vcred with Ihrubs of whatever

large fowl that

A
.

:

I han the ,ai

oli.e. of

New hghled on a hravcn kiiTing hill.

Dryde,,

"'"^
„^
ether .v^'f^t
than
lheA^«-<«j.

.

d,,j,„

DryJen,

6.

That fummons thee to heaven, or to

r^roTx;; tr rt-rX'-l^^bi" i

7.

^^'

U« precepts or cample,

of the ancien, i«2!;.

'^

"'''"^"'

Lm

bi?d,

1 is

*''''"'''

And fetch'd from far, diftcnj. hit

wc^ordatl^'ed
ligion. chofen
rert unfchcoled

T^^L^T
.ty

'^\' '""

Jere^' srVa"'.

•^--'

*"''''^' ""

.u4e.her:'a„^'il',t:n:r '

"'

Wfldjfavagc; rapacious;
cruel/'"'"-

To rife with pain

or juft array,

Milim.

Shake/peart,
'

!

Left him at large.
1

he prophets were t.iught to

Ood, and thereby

!^.t;j,,„_

know the

will

of

inftruil the people,

and enabled
of their being fcnt by
Temple,
.
the celefbals.

to prophefy, as a teftimony

4.

Tihe
1

.

pagan gods ;

'lake ph)(ick, pomp;
Kxpofe Ihjfelftofeel what wretches
feci.
That thou may'll Ihake the fuperflux to
them,
And (how the heavint more jud.
Sbukcff
They can judge as (illy of his worth.
As I can of Ihofe myrterics which
heaven
Will not have the world to know.

Sb^i,/i.

lab'ringfide.

//«t,'«! what a fpring was in hi. arm

Sl,,ir/i

toilnow
How high he held hii (liicld, and rofc at cvVy

and itaz't<f

I

blow.

Wicklifl'j days.
-

;

MiltoTt.

.

Thewitl

^ '"'

at a reformation eietlmce

.•

Now hea^^n help him

^* '"'S^

To labour.
The church of England had ftruggled

3.

4.

*""""

•

2.

<•

And high permilTion of all-ruling betven

marched into the plain.

; fuch a. yol
Nourilh the caufe of hi. awaking.
'

''"'*'''

.

The fupreme power; the fovereign
of

of viflorv

fXn In'o their'

fuch as you.

fuppf'd"

.

heaven.

" ^'

That creep like Ihadow, by him,
and do figh
At each his ncedkfs /ar^vVjr

pagan,

Gentiles,

3.

ft.

h":;I\:L'':,';:2:!'''-^''>-.

Be onging to the

All

All yet left of that revolted rout,

Ijcay'n faH'n, in ftaiion flood,

lliovard.
«„
rv.
1. To pant; to breathe
with pain.
'

He'at,,,^,^^^. (,^^^y

Uea-j't, banilh'd hoft, leftdcfcrt
utmolihell.

below.

The Scots, iw,edup into high hope

hell,

Shatefp Macbeth.

,

late

Subnme with expeflation.

To puff; to elate.
took the Engliih for

,

,.

Poor (hadow painted queen

ne«, forfook their hill, anil

I.

T,
Thefe, the

A mod to butfting.
Sbah/p. A.jou Jiki !,.
To exalt; lo elevate,

T,.
. .,
10 tinAVt.

I- woaid no linger

name of father
Sbahfp

preft her heart.

;
One beav'J on high, to be hutl'd down

,

and

It is a knell

The wretched animal i.^.Vtorth
fuch groans
1 hat theirdifcharge did itretch his leatherncoat

"^

»

„

Tempi,

The habitation of God, good angels,
pure fouls departed.

>

J amingly torih, as if

f'--"'-' Germ1?;Tht
"^^t';"'^'',;
gentile,; the pagans;
the nations una/
quainted w„h the
covenant of grace
Deliver us from the
bcMbm thir „'
Uiank, (0 thy holy name.
"A"' "^y 8>ve

and

RMgh': HiJlo,y

Some fires may fall from bea-ven.
2.

our Ihores.

To fort^up from the breaft.
Made (}ie no verbal quel*
-Yen. once or twice (he b.av'Jtht

VETCH, which fee,

P«'P«^')' fof '''^ -"r

they pant and ftick halfway.
finny fwarms,

afTora

'•l''^"

fbr

the earth with

That heavt our friths and crowd upon

my fields.

SbaWp
'^

' "f race in time to
come
Shall fpread the conqucfts of
imperial Rome.
Rome, whofe afcending tow'rs (hall
hea-v'n invade.
Involving earth and ocean in
her (hade.

'°'^'"-

To caufe to fwell,

TL
I'.
,
1 he glittering
Which Phaitt or lona yields.
More pleafing morfcl, «ould

A nation like the herald Mr-rrury,

"

And btm,< it up

the

Iky,

pain,

^A

The regions above; the expanfe of

t.

Sptnftr.

,

?°"'kShai.ft.
h"V^.">:
He
dy'd m tight;
Fought next my perfon. as
in concert fouehf.
Save when he h,„,<d hi,
(hield in
And on hii naked fide reteiv'd my mydVtence,
wound.

frequents heaths.

'"^ [*«/Aand^«,/.J

be derived from heopft,
the places over
head, Saxon.]

cannot btave

The groan, of gb«fts, that cleave
bfrd

the threlhing floor

N b
HE'AVEN. ^,/. [heopon, which feems'lo*

shak.fp.
^'

tolifr.

^1

'"* *""'^' »< "f*""/.
wju
wiUfmeirrr''?^"""^"'
imell a great way
,„„ ,he fea.
^<,ri

H ATHCOCK.„./. [>>,a,h apd «,i.l

Toraife;

So daunted, when the giant
fivf the knight,
Hit heavy hand he iCatwi^
up on high.
And him to dull thought to have batter'd quite.

H«th ai^"';''"",'' ^T""e- -^W- A^«'«««.
terr'anleSlir'' '^ '^^ ^""*' of Suffi^i3-

Huilbrat.

^" offering among

*'-^'

thehw'"^'

Heav, him away upon your
winged thoughts
A^wartthefea.

whence

You owe this ftrange

"""^'^f'

^

^"'^''fe'^n'^'^'

A place overgrown with heath.
IJpoa .h»blalted

thefe profound

we underftand them.

Effort to vomif.

3.

S'MtTiim there: and there being
2.

'tis fit

fighs;

4. Struggle to rife.
But alter many ftrains and
htavtt.
He got up to his faddle eaves.

heaven

Lel:thin, at large.

Miller.

^

the arch-fiend lay,

nor ever thence

j'"'

rj^

There's matter in thefe

You muft trandate;

Had ris'n or beav'd hij head, but that
the will
And high permidion of all ruling

'V™

In v.— .k

;

"''""" "»'fi'« foundation.

Rifing of the breaft.

2.

anciently

to raife from the ground.

So ftrelch'd out huge in length

'•/• {erica, Latin,]

Lift; exertion or effort
upwards.
None could guefs whether the

t.

of

»»/ with

'»'"«

va HfcAV li. ^. a. pret.
/>,aT/f</,
to

Gav

to feel a tendency to vomit.

;

next *,aTr of the

tKJi''',/''",''^'""*''"'''^**""''
the
*,^Mj, and.

made hot and put into
a box-iron.
Imooth and plait linen.

keck

'

Pn'sri

..

.

Heave, n.f. [from the verb.]

Hammond.

[from

1 o

4-

acknowledgment of the true God,

•n oppolition to btalUnlfm.

Ajjif^
bofom i«w.

'Tt.
1 he heaving tide
In widen -d circles beats
on either fide.
,

[from

Oentilifm ; p.iganifra.

with

'

contended not lor the gi.t,

theTLf-*'^
the

^^'?' ""y imagination fo mu?h''7s"

lea 01 ocean
I cannot fee .he
:
he.-,vwg of this
p™d,gio.s bulk of waters,
even in a calm, ^ithou-

prav in pubiick

Heathfnishly, «4'i.. [from heathemjh,\

yott of your reft.

action.

W eak was the pulfe, and hardly 4«x,vfhefo part

ftanding.

A noble emulation ieart your brejft,

5.

The wandVing breath was on the wing

That execrable Cromwell,
made a hcathtnUllx
ather inhuman edict
againil the epifcopal clergy,

^"J" vehemence of paffion or

And your own fame now robs

HEA

Tht! Mooft did tread under
ieir htaihtiiijb feet,
whatever little tliey found yet there

to fwell and fall.

Thou haft made my curdled blood
back.
My heart icnt up, my km to rife iorun
bnOics.

Drydfll,

DiyJen.

•
,.
iM
,
klevation; fubhmity,
,

5.

.

f), for a mufc of hre, thai

wo^ld afccnd

The brighte«l heaven of inveniion.

.S'iai,/>

6. If is ofteti ufcd in conipefition.

6B2

Heavbk.

Begot by a

HiAVEW-iiGOT.

leftial regions ;

If once i fever fires his fulphurouj bWodt

Jn every fit he feels the band of God,
Drydtn's Jmtnal.
And heav'n-iorn flame.
Oh heaf'n.bcrn fifters jYource ol art

Who charm the fenfe, or mend the heart
Who lead fair virtue's train along.
Pofe.

Produced or cultivated in

I

Our ftrength is all gone mtoheaviiafs.
That makes the weight.

gods.
His arms had ivrought the deftin'd fall
Ol facrcd Troy, andrai'd her btav'n-tuitt wall.
'

Which feiz'd his eyes.

?

Taught by the powers of heaven.
;

and lalBtude, are figns of a too plentiful meal.
Arbutbnot

left for truth's dcfencr;

To all but biavcH-direClcd hands dcny'd ,

4. Oppreflion ;

The mufe may give it, but the gods muft guide.

doth the love

fo

virtuous,

of the

Sidney.
make one become worldly.
Not Maro's mufe, who fung the mighty man ;
Nor Pindar's bca-v'nly lyre,.nor Horace when a fwan.

HE'AVY. adj. [heapij, Saxon.]

Drydoi.

to the centre ; contrary to light.

world,

Weighty

1

;

Adoring hrft the genius of the place,

Then earth,, the mother of the beav'nly race.

Sbakefpeare.

Pofe.

By the agency or influence of heaven.
Truth and peace and love (ball ever fliine
About the fuprtroe throne
Of him, t'whofe happy-muking fight alone.
ad-v.

[heavctt

and peapb,

Towards heaven.

;.

Let not your ears defpife my tongue for ever.

Pray for this good man, and for his ifluc,
Whole heavy hand hath bow'd you to the grave.

1

with grief.
Shakefptari,

h-jve A/'flW/jt borne.

This O'Ncil took very hrai'ily becaufc his condition in the army was lefa plcafanl to him.

A work was to be done, a heavy writer to be encouraged, and accordingly many thoufand copies were

— O,

f«i

I

have pad a mifcKible night.

Sbakeff,

Ht'AVIKESS. »./. [from beanjy.l
I.

Ponderoufnefs;
heavy ; weight.

The fubjeft is

the

quality of being

;

liiat

hea'viitrfi
li

of fc-

leijuircd

be-

Latin.]

J

Slow

fluggifh.
;
But let ihy fpiders that fuck up ihy venom.
Shakefp,
And heavy, gaited toads lie in their way.

g. Stupid ; foolilh.
This bea^y he,ided revel, Eaft and Weft
Makes us traduc'd, and tai'd of other nations.
would not be accounted fo bafe minded, or
ie«vy headed, that 1 wiil csofcls ihai any of ihem
I

Weekly;

conCfting of feven days.
As for hebdomadal periods, or weeks in regard of
Brown.

To HE'BETATE. t. o.
hebeter,

French.]

Latin-

[hebeto,

To dull; to blunt ; to

ftupify.

The eye, efpecially i[ hebetated, might caufe the
Harvey.
fame perception.
Beef nay confer a robudnefs on the limbs of my
fon, but will hebetate and clog his intellectuals.
Arbutbnot and Pope%

Hebeta'tion. n.f. [from hebetate.'\
2.

The aft of dulling.
The ftate of being dulled.

He'b ETUDE, n. f. \hebetudo Latin,] DulThe

peftilcnt

fcminaries,
aflivity,

fubtility,

according to their
or hebetude, caufe

Harvey.
more or lefs truculent plagues.
[hebrai/me, French; itHebrew idiom.
braijmut, Latin,]

He'braism. ». /

A

u

Milton has infufed a great many Latinifmi,
well as Graecifms, and fometimcs Hebraifms, into
Sfe3ator,
his poem.

He'braist.

[Mriras, Latin.]

». /.

man (killed in Hebrew..
He'brician, »,/. [(torn Hebrrw.']

A
One

in Hebrew.
The words are more properly taken for the air or
ether than the heavens, as the beft Hebricians unRaleigh.
dcrftand them.
The nature •f the Hebrew verfe, as the meaneft
Heiriiian knoweth, couiids of uneven feei.
flcilful

lazy.

Sbakefpeare.

concerning the

Ttra) bodies, or the profoiiioo

Wanting aftivity ; indolent

Fair, tall, his limbs with due pj»portion join'd ;
Jjryden.
But oil heavy, dull, degeneraie mind.
7. Droufy ; dull; torpid.
Peter and they that were with him were heavy
Luke.
with deep.

8.

With an air of dejeflion.
Why looks your grace heavily to-day ?

Sv'iJ).

befpoke..

6.

Clartndtti.

4.

Prior.

unani mated.

came hither to tranfport the tydingt,

Which

Wanting alacrity j wanting brilknefs of

Wanting fpirit or rapidity of fentiment

j.

Eafc muft be impra^icablc to the envious;. 'hey
lie under a dnuble misfortune; common calamities
and common blefTings fall heavily upon them.

'

Sviifi.

My heavy eyes, you fay, confeft

2. Grievoufly ; afBi(ftively.

1

Sbakejfeart.

A heart to love and grief inclined.

CcUier.

[from hebdomas,

groffncfs or

appearance.

.

a^'.

7

nefs; obtufenefs; bluntnefs.

4..

He'avily. ad-v. [from heavy.'\
With great ponderoufnefs.
1

Brozun.

hours and a half.

Hebdo'madal.
Hebuo'madary.

Hbakefpeare't Maeiellt.
\i the caufe be not good, the king himfelf hath a
heavy reckoning to make. Shake/peare*s Henry V.

Pritr.

Sorrowfully ;

Computing by the medical month, the fird hei-

Which Ihall poffefs them with the heavitji found

Chartres, at the levee.
Tells with a fneer the tydings heavy.

By various doubts impell'd,.or to obey.
Or toobje^ at length, my mournful look
Hrav'nvjid ereQ, delermin'd, thus I fpoke.

3.

HE'BDOM.'^D. n. /. [heidomat, Latin.J
A week ; a fpace of feven days.

1

Menelaus bore an heavy hand over the citizens,
2 Mae. v. 23.
having a malicious mind,

And beggar'dyout's for ever.

1 proftrate lay.

hea^y lands.

Your carriages were heavy laden j they are a burIfa. llvi. i
den to the weary bead
Come unto me all ye that labour aisd are heavy
Maih. xi. 28.
laden, and 1 will give you reft.

That ever yet they heard.
Miltcn.

Our hfavn'ty guided foul fhall climb.

Grievous; oppreflive; affliftive.

3.

fertile ; as,

ufed in compofition ; heavily.

Let me not be light
Tor a light wife doth make a heavy hufband.

And ever-mufing melancholy reigns,
What means tJiit tumult in a vellal's veins ?

are-

Deep ; cumlierfome; as, hea^jf roads.
Hea'vv. ad<v. A» an adverb it is only

2. Sorrowful ; dejefled; deprefled.

In thefe deep folitudes and awful cells,
Where heav' nly ftn(\m contemplation dwells,

Saxon.]

Rich in foil ;

3

mikim.

In a manner refembling that of heaven.

fat,

their fabbaths, they were obfcrved by the Hebrews.

ponderous ; tending ftrongly

Dryitn.

Heavenly, adv.

or

14.

Merfennus tells us, that a little child, with an
engine of an hundred double pulleys, might move
this earth, though it were much heavier than it is.

2. Celeftial; inhabiting heaven.

oil

domad or feptenary conflfts of fix days, fcventeen

received fame, whicn, by leafon of the fatnefs and
heavinejs of the ground, Egypt did not produce ;
Arbutbnot,
fuch as metals, wood, and pitch.

As the love of heaven makes one hiavtnly, the

Heavenward,

Such preparations as retain the

molt heavy to the liomach, which makes baked
Arliurbnor,
meat hard of digeftion.

the

affliftion ; as,

Deepnefs orrichnefs of foil.
As Alexandria exported many commodities, fo it

5.

Refembling heaven; fupremely excellent.

love of virtue

crufh ;

to the

ftomach.

hearvinej's of taxes.

ropt.

Heavenltc. adj. [from Amws.]

2,

12. Noteafily digefted;. not light

Dryden.

,

A fenfation of droulinefs, oppredion, hesvijtefs,

Pcff.

1

Hearing that there were forces coming againft
him, and not willing that they Ihould find his men
heavy and laden with booty, he returned unto ScotBacon' I Henry WW.
land.

He would not violate thatfweet recefs,
And found bcfidos a welcome beavineft.

Raifed towards the iky.

1.

Sxvift,

Loaded; incumbered; burthened.

11.

1

Shakefp.

what has been the diverfion

put into thy hands

your hands for want of fame trifling amufement.

Addijon.

Heaven-duiected.

O facred weapon

Kntliet.

Burdenfome; troublefome; tedious.
I

Pel. i. 6.

What means this heavinefs that hangs upon me f
This lethargy that creeps through all my fenfes.

Pofi.

rife
Who taught
^ that hetn/'n-dirtCled fpit« to

power, or fortuoe better than my^-

Luke.
of fome of my idle and heavy hours.
When alone, your time will not lie b4avy upon

to motion or thought ; fluggilhnefs ; torpidnefs; dulnefs of fpirit;
languidnefs ; languor.

Much is the force of fcdt/»-i«</poefy. Shaiejp.
Heaven-built. Built by the ageacy of

2,

for tilour,

3. Inaptitude

heaven.

1.

10.

unto forrow and heavintjs ; of fome more mollified,
Honker.
and foficned in mind.
Againftill chances men are ever m;rry;
Sbakefp.
But heavinefs foreruns the good event.
Let us not burthen our remembrance with
Shakefp.
that's
gone.
heavint/i
An
Hea-uintjt in the heart of man maketh it ftoop
Prni. jii. 15.
but a good word maketh it glad.
Ye greatly rejoice ; though now for a feafon ye
are in heavinejs, through manifold temptations.

Defcended from ihe ce-

_

Dejeftion of mind ; depreffion of fpirit.

We are, at the hearing ol foroe, more inclined

Dryden.

Moral truth, and myftick fong

ii

felf.

2.

native of heaven.

Heaven-bred.

may move

twitt ant weight aodthe power which

celeftial

power.
If I am btini'H-itgol, tffert jrour fon
By feme fute fign.

HiAVEN-BoRN.

HEA

HE A

HEA

Peacbam.

He'catomb.
tx<(ro|u,/3ii.]

French;
iacriBce of an hundred
\hecatcmbe,

n. f.

A

cattle.
In rich mens homes
I

bid kill fome beatts; but no hecatombs;.

None ftarve, none furfeit fo.
One of thefe three is a vhaW hecatomb.
And therefore only one of them Ihall die.
Her triumphant fons in war fucceed,

Donm,
Dryden.

And ilaughtei'd beeaiombt around 'em bleed.
Addifan.

Hb'ctica-l,

He'ctick,

)

adj.

[htSlaue,

[from «'!«. j

i'rench.

Had-

HED

HE D

I, Habitual; conftitotional.

This word is joined only to that kind of fever
which i< flow and continual, and ending in a confumption, is the contrary to thofe fevers which arife
fejm a plethora, or too great fullnefs from obf^ruction.

2.

Toobftruft,

J.

To incircle for defence.

1 will hedge up thy vray wtth thomj.

tory paflages, and generMly thofe of the (kin
whereby fo much runs off as leaves not refinance
enough in the contradile velfels to keep them fuf;

diftended,

that they vibrate ot'tenetr
a^tate the 6uids the more, and keep them thin and

'

Troubled with a morbid heat.
No HrUick ftudentfcars the gentle msid. Tajlcr.

He'ctick.w./

Like the beclick in my bkx>d he rages.
And thou muft cure me.
Sbaktfp. Hamlet.
He'ctor »./. [from the name oi Hecior,

leaft

a. [from the noun.]
To
threaten ; to treat with infolent authoritative terms.

They reckon they muft part with honour together with their opinion, if they fufler ihemfelves to
bei«3orei/outof it.
Govfrr.meni of tht Tcrrgite.
The weak low fpirit Fortune makes her flave ;
But (he'f a drudge, when beaor'd by the brave.

.

To play the bully; to

blnfter.
They have attacked me, fome with piteous moans
and outcries, others grinning and only Dicwing their
teeth, others ranting and incfiring, others fcolding
and reviling.
StUliTigJleet.
One would think the ttHoring, the flormiog, the
fullen, and all the diSereot fpecies of the angry,
Ihould be cured.
Don Carlos made her chief direflor.

Sf{{2.

That llie might o'er the fervants htni,r.

Hedira'ceoi;s.

adj.

.

Svtft.

[hedtrtteus,

Lat.]

I

am fain to Ibuffle, to bedgr, and to lurch.

fire, .if

Of

no known birth ; meanly born.
He then, that is not furnilh'd in this fort.

attend.

Doth but afurpthe facred name of knight.
were worthy to be judge.
Be ijdite degraded, like a hedge-barn fwain.
That doth prefumc to boaftot gentle blood.

With pleafure Argus the mufician heeds
j
But wonders much at thofe new vocal reeds. DryJ.
He will no more have clear ideas of all theoperaT
tions ofhis,mind,than he will have all the particular
ideas of any landfcape or clock, who will not turn his
eyes to it and with attention heed all the parts of it.

I

Hedge creeper. »./.

Sbak,

\_hedge zri^creep."]

that Ikulkj uader

hedges for bad

i-»eie.

purpofes.

Heed, a.y, [from the verb.]

A plant /«/ff/7-

HEDCE-FUMlTORy.»./.

and hog; eri-

Care; attention.
With wanton i«^ and giddy cunning,
The melting voice through mares running. Mileon.

An animal fet with prickles, like thorns

Take heed thit, in their tender years, ideas, that
have no natural cohefion, come not to be united in^

1.

;

riaftfiam.

AinJ-vaortb.

Hedgi-hoo, n. /.

[hedge

7taceus.'\

their heads.

in an hedge.
Like hedge-bogt, which

eiperience,

the eollyrium

nake onefcein the dark

:

,

Either wife bearing or ignorant carriage is caught
men catch difeafes, one of another i therefore,
let men take heed of their company.
Shakefpearei

of Albertus ; that is to
yet thus much, according

as

the right eye of an hedge-hog,
boiled in oil, and prcfervcd in a brazen vefTcl, effect.

Thom/tn.

HfDGE, prefixed to any word, notes fome-

Ray.

is

beyond

perfnir.e.

all

p^,.

Through the verdant matt

Of fweri-briar irJget I purliie my walk.

thing mean, rile, ofthe lowcft clafs: perhaps from a hedge, or hedge born man, a
man without any known place of birth.
(hew : the pedant, the
braggart, tixhtjge.pritfi, the fool, and the boy.

'2.

Skakrfpiart.

a-wifi.

A perfon, who, by hit ftyle and literature, fceras

fo have been the corre^or of a htdgt-freji
in Little
Britain, proceeded gradually to an author.

To Hedge, -v. a. [from the noun.]

of

wood dry or growing.
Hedge thy polTefTion about with thorns.

Bechf

Thrfe alleys muftbe hedged a( bechcsdi, to keep
Uaetn,

by night

Take heed ere Summer comes, or cuckoo bird*
affri ht. Shakefp. Merry IVivei
0/ fVindfar.
3.

1

of his worlhip.

4.

Shakefp.

Ainjiaorth.

The globe fiOl orbi$ echinatus. Ainjhjj.
Hedce-hyssop. «. /, \hedge and j&j/«/.]
;

A fpecies of willowwort

;

lillotfn.

Notice; obfervation.

Speech muft come by hearing and learning j and
and mark words more thjn
bealts.
Bacon.
5. Serioufnefs; ftaidnefs.
)
He did unfeal them j and tlie firft he view'd.
He did it with a ferious mind ; a heed
Was in his countenance.
Shakefp,
6. Regard ,• rcfpedful notice,

grant ye.

4.

,

We Ihould take Ixed ofthe oegleil or contempt of

A plant; trefoil; medtca echinata.

3.

Care to jvoid.

birds give mote heed,

Do'ft grant me, hedgehog t

way of calling a man a fool, when no hied

I; is a

gratiolet.

is given

Hedge.hyjfop is a purging medicine, and a very
tough one eiiemally it iifaid to be a vulnerary.

to what he fays,

L'EJlrange.

He'edf ui.. adj. [from heed.]

:

Siiift.

To iiiclofe with a hedge, or .lence

Take heed \ have open eye j for thieves do foot

Did'll thou not kill this king }

firft

The clergy do much better than a little hedge,
conumptible, illiterate vicar can be prefumed to do.

A term of reproach.

L,cke.

Thou muft take heed, my Portiuj j
The world has all its eyes on Cato's fon.
Addifon.t
2. Caution; fearful attciition ; fufpicioijr
watch.

Lie tumbling in my bare-tVwt way, and mount
Their pricks at my foot-fall.
Shaktjf. TemprJI.
Kew have belief to fwaliow, or hope enough to

kept dry ; and is

r»ery morning, and ihciejgrt breath

oat the wind.

make a fine dancer out of a country hedter at palt
* like.
«'yTo HEED. -v.. et. [heban, Saxon.] To
mind ; to regard ; to take notice of; to

Sbakejprare.

And (fiould, if

Milim,

He would be laughed at, that Ihould go about to

my

Brcvjx's Vulgar Erroiirs.
The hedge.bog hath his backfide and flanks thick
fet with Itrong and (harp prickles ; and befides, by
the helpof amufcle, can contraft himfelfintoa globular figure, and fo withdraw his whole underpart,
head, belly and legs, within his thicket of prickles.

J,

The labour'd or
In his loofe traces from the furrow came

ui;to his recerj>i, will

good wood for

One who

naakes hedges.

To Ihift; to hide the

-

I.

Shakefp.

He'dger. n. J. [from hedge.]

Sxvifi.

H B D (TE BO R w. adj. {hedge and born. J

A

a hedging-bill in

And the UtXnVihedger at his fupper fat.

occetfity,

wry ufeful for lUkes in hedgti.
Moriiimr.
The gardens unfold variety of colours to the eye

There are five in the

Comes mailer D.imetas with

Diyd.

myfclf fometimes hiding mine honour in

One

Sidney.

HE'DGiNC-Bii,L.«.y: [hedge and bill.]
cutting hook ufed in making hedges.

head.

orwovfn twig*.
It ii

The bedge-fparroiu fed the cuck*o fo long.
That it had its head bit oft'by its young.

his hand, chaffing and fwearing.

thy life prefcrv'd.

in fome bufinefs of your own.

Producing ivy.
liia.
HEDGE, u.f. [hejie, Saxon.] A fence
made round grounds with prickly bufhes,
a

;

When you are feat on an errand, he. ftn:e to hedge

ToUt.nGz.v. ft.

A

row curruca.]
fparrow tfet Ifvcs
in budies, diftinguifhed from a fparrow
that builds in thatch.

:

D'ydm.

To He'ctor. ». ».

Hedge-sparrow. »./ [hedge vcvi. fpar-

me hedge one moment more
lor

MUion.

The tields in the northern fide are divided by
hedge-rotvs oi mytAt.
Berkley 10 Fopt.

You forget yourfelf

An honeft man, when he came home at night,
found another fellow domineering in hu family, iec.
icrin^ hii fervants, and calling for fupper.
Arhrnhnol'i llifiory ofjohn Bull.

Sometime walking notunfeen

To hedge mein.
Sbakejp. yuliut Cr/ar.
When I was lia(ly,fhou delayd'ft me longer
I pr'ythee, let

The

clofures.

to put in by the way that requires
room ; but hedge may fignify to

Into thy promilei

Shakrff.:

[hedge and n-w.]

By bedge-roiv elms, on hillocks green.

thruft in with difficulty, as latoahedge.

Thofe ufurping btQort, who pretend to honour
without religion, think the thargcof a lye a blot not
to be walhed out but by blood.
South.
We'll take one co-Dling cup of neflar.
And drink to this cclcttial be&or.
Pri^r,

A

of trees or bulhes planted for in-

feries

To force into a place already full. This
feems to be miftaken for edge. To edge
/>, is

the great Homeric warnour.]
A bully ;
a bluftering, turbulent,
pervicacious
noify fellow.

7» He'ctor. -v.

Hedge-row. v. /

Loch,.

5.

An heftick fever.

Dryd.

Thrice the brinded cat hath mew'd.
Thrice and once the hedge-pig whin'd.

It mull not be paid and exported in ready money
;
fofays outlaw; but that is a law to hedge in the
cuckow, »p.d ferves for no purpofe; for if we export
not goods, for which our merchants have money due
to them, how can it be paid by bills of exchange.

Sluixcy.

DnitMe.

t.

which was alfo fall of pleafant raillery.

Hedge-pig. «. / [hedge za^ fig.l
young hedge-hog.

To ffiut up within an inclofure.

4.

A btahk fever hath got hold
Of the whole fubilance not to be controul'd.

they left their hedge-notei for another fort of poem,

6.

ii.

Shakefpeare.

fo

hot.

liaf.

England, hedg'd in with the main.
That water-walled bulwark, ftill fecure
And confident from foreign purpofes.
ShateJ^.
There's fuch divinity doth hedge a kin^,
That treafon can but peep to what it wou!d.

It is attended with toolax a ftate of theejcre-

ficicntly

HEE
When they began to be fomewhat better bred,

1.

HiW, Mat. Medica.

Hedge. MUSTARD, n./. A plant.
Hedge-nettle, n,/. A plant galeofjra.
Hbdce-kote. »./

Watchful; fufpicioQs ;

vigilant.
Give him heedful note ;
For I mine eyes will rivet to his face
;

;

And, after, we will both our judgments join.

Ainfrworth.

In cenfureof his feeming.

\hedgevcid. note.]

2.

A

word of contempt for low-wiiting.
J

Shahfp. Hamlet.

Attentive; careful; obferving
1 am commanded

:

with 5^.

To tell the f aliiwj of »iy fovertign'i Jjejrt.

Wbtw

,H E E
WUft fime, late en'tring at his betJfal tit:,
To him one of the other twins was bounJ,
Wliilft 1 had been like i«^«/of the othtr.

Sbai*/feart.

Thou, A-ff^x/ of advice, fccoreproceed ;
/'«/".

heedful.']

At-

Let the learner maintain an honourable opinion
of his inlhuaor, and hiej/ully liften to his inftruc'
Hani,
tfoiis, as one willing to be led.

tion ; vigilance ; attention.

Cautioufly ; vigilantly.

At the other

mum-

Donne.

There

ii a

kind of Af // or knob, to
MoriiiKefs Hujhandry.

;

'

whence

:

worn

Guinea lieth to the North fea, in the fame height

cannot fing,
Nor /See/ the high lavolt, nor fweeten talk.

,
'

Walter.
Hredlr/t of\aic, and hopclcfs of the crown, "
clown.
half
a
more
than
halt
a
wit^
and
Scarce

His daughter's hulband in the plain attends.
Dryd. Mh.

Shakrffeare.

Elevation of rank ; ftation of dignity ;

"

.

Drydtn-

;

Hee'ler. ?!. /. [from heeL'\

themrelves to the fenfes, have yet been little taken
nouce of; the mind being either hcidlrfi as in children, or otherwife employed, as in men
Locke.
Surprifes ar« often fatal to beedlefs unguarded, in-

ftrikes well with his heels.

nocence.

Sherhck.

,

,

He'edlessly. ad-v. \ixovRheeMefs.'\ Carelefsly ; negligently ; inattentively.
Whilll ye difchargc the duties of matrimony, ye
Arbuihnol and Pofe.
beedleph »ide into fin.

[from heedlefs.']
/.
neglithoughtleflhefs ;

He'fdl'essness.

«.

Careleffnefs ;
In the little

HEEL. »./. [)3ele. Saxon.]
The part of the foot that protuberates

I,

7a H e K L-P I e c E

luxated

bone

lie

_

Bactn,

Did not (he
Of Timna firll betray me, and reveal

effort.
Heaving
May be in the cup
;

The fecrct, wrefted from me in the height
Miltut,
Ot nuptial love profefs'd ?
Hide me from the face
Of God, whom to behold was then my height

A fpiJer fteep'd, and one may drink, depart,
And yet partake no venom ; tor his knowledge

;

but iloneprefent
Th' abhorr'd ingredient to his eye, make kno^vn
How he hath drunk, he cracks his gorge, his fides
Shakefp. Pfiatcr'iTale.
With violent hrfis.
Is notinfedlcd

:

[Vor hafi.)

2.

Delpair is the height of madnefs.

which happened on Friday, J'lly 16.
A. D. 622, under the reign of the em-

and (hew them a fair pair of heels for't. L' EJlr.trtge.
purfue clofely ;
4. To be at the Heels.

— Upon the

Who finds the heifer dead and bleeding {refli,
But will fufpeil 'twas he that made the flaughlcr ?

Sbak,ff.

Shakefp.

But is there no fequel at the heels of this mother's

Ahe{fervi\\\ put up her node, and fnuffin the air,
Bacon.
againrt the rain.
For her the flocks refufe their verdant food,
PoJ>e.
Nor thirlVy beifers leek the gliding flood.

heeli of

my prefeniment.

admiration >

Sbakeff. llamtet.

To attend clofely.

Could we break cur way
By force, and at our brels all hell (hould rif«
With blackelV infurreflion, to confeuud
lleav'n's pureftlight.

Heigh ho. in/erj.
1. An expieffion of flight langour and unMillon.

eafinefs.
Ilclgh ho ! an't be not four by the day,

To purfue as an enemy.
The Spaniards fled on toward: the North to feck
«heir fortunes, being ftill chafed by the Englifh navy
ai their heels, until they were fain to give them over
Bacon.
hungry want ! that hungry meagre hend.
Ulivay.
Is at my hecU, and chaccs me in view.

for want of powder.
!

To follow clofe as a depend.int.

Through proud London he came fighingon.
Hhakeff.
After th" admired heels o{ BolJngbioke.

hang' J.
It is ufed

2.

be

•^*''*-

by Diyden,

contrarily to cuf-

tom, as a voice of exultation.
We'll tofs odour ale 'till we cannot ftand.
And beigb-bo for the honour of Old England.

Shakefp.

of excellence ; adv^pce towards
to greater

Dryd.

Elevation Jibove the grtTund ; fnJ«iinite.

and

heights,

Addifcn.

our religion.

To He'ighten. -v.a. [from Ixight.]

To raife higher.
To improve to meliorate.
3. To aggravate.
1

2.

;

Foreign llatcs ufed thelrendeavours to heighten our
confufions, ani plunge us into all the evils of a civil

Addifon.

war.

To improve by decorations.
As in a room, contrived for llate, the height of
the roof l>iould bear a proportion to the area ; fo in
the heigbtenings of poetry, the (Irength end vehe.
mence of figures (hould be fuited to the oocalion.
Dryden..

HE'INOUS.

aJj.

[hahieiiy,

French, froi*

or from the Teutonick, hooa,
Atrocious; wicked in a high

h/ine, hate ;

(hame.]
degree.

abrogate

or innovate the gofpel of Chrill, if

men or aiigcls fhoulj attempt, it were moH htintut
Hooker.

and accurfed faciilege.

This is the man fhould do the bloody deed
The image of a wicked hehious fault

:

Shakefp.

Lives in his eye.

Height. »./. [from Z!/;^/^.]
I ,

now put you to the height

Sociai duties are carried

'I'o
I'll

(hall

enforced with ftronger motives, by the principle! of

1.

And fees faft by a butcher with an axe.

I

perfeftion.

A young

cow*.

To

to follow hard.
Sir, when comes your book forth ?

8. State

Harris.

HEi'FERa./. [heapone Saxon.]

Sherlock.

Utmoft exertion.

7.

Come on, fir j
of your breeding.

nology, fignifying the epocha, or account of time, ufed by the Arabians and
Turks, who begin their computation
from the day that Mahomet was forced to
make his efcape from the city of Mecca,

peror Heraclius.

Milton.

Of happinefs

Handle.

He'gira. »./. [Arabick.] Aterminchro-

Pegafus appeared hanging off the fide of a rock,
Addlfon.
with a fountain ninning from his tcel.
in flight.
3. The feet, as empkiyeJ
Nothing is commoner, in times of danger, thsn
for men to leave their mafters to bears ami tygers,

•7.

rutrefaflion doth notriie to itshtighi at once.

htFT. »./. [from heave.]
1.

The utmoft degree ; full completion.

6.

^'*'

flioes.

iVifcman'i Surgery.

His Hinged heels, and tTien his armed head ;
With thefe t' avoid, with thathis fate to meet ;'
Hut fear prevails, and bids him truft his feet.
Drnham,

Want

Daniel.
Every man of learning need not enter into their
ditHculties, nor climb the tiigbis to which fome
Hans..
others have arrived.
_

To

[htel and fiiece.1

frailer.

backward,

The (lag recals his ftaeugth, his fpced.

6.

oi. flr.

it

diftorled

The whole foot of animals.

5.

Of pow'r, dominion, glory, wealth, and ftate.

His oily fide devours both blade and he/t.

lieth over the hui bone.

i.

.

put a piece of leather on a (hoe heel.
Some blamed Mrs. Bull' for new hecl-fieciitg ^er

behind.
If the

Ten kingshad from the Norman conqu'ror reign d.

When EngLind to her.greateft beigtt attain'd.

'\

harms they fuffer from knocks and

be pitied, but bid do fo again ;
which is a better way to cute iheii beedUfmift.
L»cke.

A cock that

A
He'el-piece. w. /. [heel in^ piece.
piece fixed on the hinder part of the Ihoe,
to fupply what is worn away.

gence ; inattention.
falls, they (hould not

great degree of excellence.
By him that rais'd me to this careful height.
Sbaf^
From that contented hap which I cnjoy'd.

n.'.

Some ideas which have more than once olfercd

,

5

To lean on one fide as, the (hip heels.
a.
To arm a cock.
To H E e l.
i.

towering eminence ;

afcent ;

;

high place.
From Alpine heigits the father firft defcends ;

To dance.
I

Whofe eyes they are thatwound him fo.

Summit

4.

To Heel. f. n. [from the nonn.]

Aibtt.

as Peru to the South.

Shakc/fcare.

I.

that is in length

as they approach the pole.

A *good man's fortune jnay grow i>i4tat heels.

thoughtlefs; re-

in Ticinium a church

Degree of latitude. Latitudes are higher

3.

out.

:

is

one hundred feet, in breadth t^x nty, and in teight
Bucm,
near fifty.
An amphitheatre appear'd,
Rais'd in degrees, to fitly paces fcar'd ;
That »v!icn a man was plac'd in one degree,
Drydeit,
Height was allow'd for b«m abovie to fee.

Addijm.

the phrafc to be out at heels, to be

£)/V?.

with of.
The heedlffs lover does nut know

-

•.

The back part of a flocking

10.

Caution ; vigilance.

inattentive; carelefs ;
gardlefs ; unobferving

fide

break clots with.

Dicf.

Negligent;

As he removes far off, that great heights takes.

Any thing (haped like a heel.

9.
'

He'edless. aJj. [from tee^.]

wards.
Abroad I 'II Rudy thee,

1"-

'

«. /.

delight.
Addlfeit.
Bcre fills the eye wjth terror and-Jcl
Altitude ; definite fpacc racafured up'

2.

mers ; and wondered that none of the Middlefex
heels.
iuftices -took core to luv fome of them ij the
'

He'edkulness. «./. [from ^tr,^/.] C»u-

Mil;*if.

I

amaiing befgot
An amphitlieaire's
••

liudiimf.

1 began to fmoke that they were a parcel of
I

tentively ; carefully ; cautioufly.

He'bdiness.

From what height fall'n

:

And cannot be/j;V(5)' (if i«.''.

,

He'eoilt. adv.

To fetter; to

Tnto_what pit ihoufeeft.

Is, /»/ytrr/], unconfin'd,

praife the precept is, be iliine the deed.

[from

Heels.

ly the

H EI

I

to put into gyves.
If the king blame me for'i, I'll hy ye all
By th' heels, and fuddenly 1 and on your heads
Hhahff.
Clap round fines for negleft.
One half of man, his mind,

(hackle

SMe/fcare.

aii'-j.

To lay

8.

llallipUc'd thy beauty's image and thy virtue.

My
He'edfully.

HE

.

As it is a moft heinous, fo it is a mod dangrioits
impiety to dcfpife him that can dcftroy us. Tiikfon.

Hb'inously. civ. {itomheiiiou!.']

Atro-

cioully; wickedly.

He'ikous-

HE L

HEL

HEL

He'is'otjsness. «./. [{rom I'eidotti.'], Atrowickednefs.
cioufnefs
He who can treat oft'cnces, provoking God, as

He'liod Tarnhola, in mathematick«. or the
parabolick fpiral, is a curve which arifes
from the fuppofition of the axis of the
common Apollonian parabola's being bent
round into the periphery of a circle, and
is a line then pafling through the extremities of the ordinates, which do now
converge towards the centre of the faid

;

and trifles, muft have little fcnfc of (he heinoiif.

jefts

Rogiri.

ncjs of them.

Heir.

w. /.

[heire, '•Id

French;

h<eres,

Latin.]

One that is inheritor of any thing after

1.

the prefent poffeflbr.
An bdr fignifiej the eldeft, who h, by the laws
of England, to have all his father's land.

Locke.

HeLioce'ntrick. adj. \heliocentriiue. It.
I)Ai®- and xfrTf«r.]

Sbakeff.

Tht heliocinK ick place of a planet is faid to be

That I'll give my voice on Richard's fiJe,
To bar my mafter's heht in true defcent,
SbaifJ^iare.
God knows I will not do it.

fuch as it would appear to us from the fun, if our eye
Harris.
were fixed in its centre.

The teir of Alanfon, Rofaline her natne.

Being hihs together of the grace of life.
I Ptt.'M. 7.
Sunk is the hero, and his glory loft.
Pope.
And I his heir in mifery alone;
The heirt to titles and larje eftates have a wsaknefs in their eyes, and a tcndcrnefs in their conftitu-

Hell-bred. (7(^'. [/W/ andiW.] Produced
in hell.
Heart cantiot think what courage and what cries^
With foul cnfouldrcd fmoak and tladiing fire,

The hell-b'ed bealt threw forth into the (kies Spin/.
[hell and broth. \
compofition boiled up for infernal pur-

He'lioscope. »./. [heliofcope, Fr. liAi®- and
o-K«T««.]

pofes.
Adder's fork, and blind worm's fting.
Lizard's leg, and owlet's wing;
For a charm of powerful trouble.

Like a bdl-iroth boil and bubble.
fig ned

A fort of telefcope fitted fo-as

He'l lOTROP E. n.f. [iiAi^ and tjsVw
plant that

One newly inheriting ati eftate.

2,

more

The young extravagant heir hij gota new Reward,
Swift.
and was rcfotvcd to loilc into his eftate.
inTe Heir. it. a. [from the noun.]
herit.
His fon in blooming youth was fnatch'd by fate.
One only daughter heir'd the royal Itate. Drjden.

An inheritrix

;

I

ftill

think of
;

He'irshtp. v./.

charafter, or privileges of an heir.
A layman appointi an heir or an executor in

the turnfol,

Government of the tongue.

For it is a knell
That fummonj thee to heaven or to hell.
Shakefp.
If a man were a porter of hell^Mn, he (hould
have old turning the key.
Shakefp. Macttih.
Let none admire
That riches grow in belli that foil may beft
Deferve the precious bane,
Milton.
Hell's black tyrant trembled to behold

The glorious light he forfeited of old.

The

2.

place

of

feparate

I

will go down to

EccUf.

fuq, or falling into it.
HlJ'Srficy afi-ribed the heat

ofthefeafon to this
from its heliacal
•
ttctia.
Brrwii.
HE'tiACAtLY. adv. [from Ixliaea/.]
ft.ir,.ih<y would not have compittcd

TheJcrrt* is a kind of wcdjp, muUiplie 1 or confi-i
(

V

cj Vy 1 hr'.'ca! re»olution abdut a cylinder, rc,ot fifcin any ftrokc, but ffom a
•!.

,

fVitkim.

On what was pure.

Kii^t Csaktryj.

The infernal powers.
Mich danger firft, much toil did he fulbin,

'1 he term hell prefixed
infernal breed.
to
any word notes deteftation.

Did you fay all ? What all ? Oh, hell-kite! all ?
What, all my pretty chickens, and their dam.
At one fell fwoop ?
Shakefp. Macbeth.
e'l L E BOR E. n.f. [hellebarus, Lat, j Chrilt'

H

mas flower.

,

«

,

.

He'llebore IVhker n\/: [yeratrum, Lat.}
There are great doubts whether any of
he the true hellebore of the ancients.

7. It is ofed in cortipofition by the old
writers mcMC than by the m9dern.
P.lack as hett.

MilUt.

A Greek

He'llenism. n.f. [t'A/ijuir/Ais ]
idiom.

its fpecies

Ainfiudrth.

He'llish. adj. [from hcIL]
Sent from hell ; belonging to hell.

O

thou celcliial or infernal fpirit I'i love, or whot
other heavenly or bdlijlj title thou lift to have, for
efFefls of both I find in myfelf, have companion of

me.

Sidney.

Viftory and triumph to the Son of God,

Now entering his great duel, not of arms.
But to vancjuilh by wifdom hellijh wiles.
2.

Having the

Milton.
qualities of hell; infernal;

wicked; deteftable.

••

No benefits Ihall ever allay that diabolical rancouc
that ferments in fome hellijh breafts, but that it will
foam out at its foul mouth in Oander.
South.

He'llishly. ad'v. [from

hellifh.l

Infer-

deteftably.

He'llishness. ?/._/; [(xom hellijh. 1 Wick-

Cowley.

<7<//'.

Kite of

[hell z-nd kite.]

nally; wickedly;

While Saul and bell croU -his llrong fat: in vain.

H£j.i,-BLACi.

Milton.

Hell-kite. »./.

The place into which the taylor throws

.

6.

call'd

Which man's polluting fill with taint had flied

1.

his (hreds.
This in4ty fquire, he had as well
As the bold Trojan knight feen bell;
Not with a counterfeited paft
Of gokleo bough, but true gold-lace.
HitdHiras.
Jn Covent- Garden did a laylnt dwell.
Who might defcrve a place in hij own bell.

with the fan, but helijcjUy, that is, at its emerfijn from the rays of the lun, the ancients compjtelthlir canicular days.
Bimn.
He li lempefluous in the Summer, when he rifcs
htlncJijs and rainy in the Winter, when he rifes

He'licai.. adv. \htlice, French, from i'>.i|.
Spiral ; with many circumvolutions.

I

My bell-bounds to lick up the draff, and filth.

Muft ftrive with waiting fuot and watching eye,
To catch of them, and them to belllo bear.
That they, as well as they, bell may fupply. 'iidnry.

From the rifing of this ftar, not cofmically, that

Dry.icn.

Dryden,

The two that in the mid-place, if// called were,

is,

,

Pfalm xviii. 4.

They of both ends the middle two do By

5.

hunt us all to death. Shakef,

Agent of hell.

the fnaret of

Then couples three be ftraight allotted there

HELIACAL, adj. \hdiaque, French, from

ia\.'<\

Had reach'd the dame, and, faftening on her fide,
The ground with ilfuing llreams of purple dy'd.

A plant.
;

The place at a running play to whkji
thofe who are caught are carried.

4.

If Minerva had not appeared and i</</ his hand,
he had executed his delign.
Dryden.

a-:,roiiiCJlfy.

whether

Apofilet Cre^d.

The pains of hell came about me
death overtook me.

Emerging from the laftreof the

From forth this kennel of thy womb hath crept

A hell-hound xhiX

Temporal death.

3.

of

A rich man beginning to fall, \iktld up of friends.

Bound to the fate of this bell-baunred grove. DryS.

Hell-hound, n.f [helle hunb, Saxon.}
1. Dog of hell.

my fon mourning to bell. Gen.

Hedefcended into bell.

Thence through a long defcent of king!

haHHt,'\

Fierce Ofmond cics'd me in the bleeding bark,
And bid me ftand cxpos'd to the bleak winds.

Coviley.

fouls,

[hell and

adj.

Haunted by the devil.

2.

good or batL

Sviifi.

Hell-haunted,

'I'he place of the devil and wicked fouls.

Achilles' fceptrc was of wo«d,
Tranfmiited to the Iiero's line;

paff.

With the heli-baltd lie o'erwhelm thy heart. Sbak.

Now the hell-hounds with fuperior I'pced

HELL, n.f [helle, Saxon.]

Heirloom, n.f. [A«> and jeloma, goods,
Any furniture or moveable deSaxon.]

Came an Lrirlmm, as Homer fings.
The preterite and part.

Hell-hated, adj. Abhorred like hell.

Part

Find the true inclination of the fcrew, together
with the quantity of water which every belix does
PyHkim.
contain.

an hofpital within a year, under pain
of being deprived o(h\^ leirjhip. AjUfft' t Parergon,

Held.

Earth gape open wide and eat him quick.
As thou doft fwallow up this good king's blood.
Which h\i bell-govern' d arm hath butchered. Sbak,

of a fpiral line; a circumvolution.

niil, to build

JiAi®-.]

navi-

Harris.

nearer to it, but cannot terminate in it.

HE'LIX. n.f. [kelice. French; i'^^]

1

Milicn.

Heli.-governed. adj. Direfled by hell.

Back do 1 tofs thefe treafons to thy head.

gation, and is fo called becaufe on the globe it winds
round the pole fpirally, and dill comes nearer and

his

creed to defcend by inheritance, and therefore infeparable from the freehold.

particularly

'I'he beliffhericn! line is tUe rhomb line in

The ftate,

[^from *«>.]

but
or fun-

He'lispherical. adj. [helix znAfpbere: ]

He'irless. <7i^". [frora^c/r.] Without an
heir; wanting one to inheiit after him.
The wrong I did myfelf which was fo much,
1'hat heirlift it hath made my kingdom.
Shakefp.

A

Latin.]

Ixliotropium,

turns towards the fun ;

weather.

;

ffaller.
All that was her's to him did give.
^neas, though he married the belreft of the
crown, yet claimed no title to it during the life of
Dryden.
his father-in-law.

helio-

'Tis an obl^rvation of flatterers, that they are like
the beliotrof>e\ they opec only towards the fun, but
Ihut and contradl themfclves at night, and in cloudy

a woman th.it inherits.

An iii-efi (lie, while yet alive

;

Hell. doomed', and breath'it defiance here and I'corn,

Where I reign king?

flower.

To

He'iress, »./ [fronn&«>.]

French;

trope,

S'j.'i/r.

lions.

Harris.

_

to hell.

And leckon'll thou thyfelf with fpirits of heav'n,

of the fun, withoi;t

offence to the eyes.

Sbahfp, Mach.

Hell-doomed. /ji^'. [hell wA doom. \ Con-

•

to look on the body

A

Hell-erdth. //. /.

Harris.

circle.

What lady is that?

Thefea, with -fuch a ftorm as his bar* head
In belLbhick night endur'd, would have boil'd up,
And- queucli'd the ftelled fires.
Shak. King Lear.

...

ednefs;

abhorred qualities.

Hf'llward. adv. [from hell.\

Toward

hell.
lie

next tliy care the fable (heep Jo place

full o'ci ibc jitijiaiMlwMd UsaiUus face. P^e,

Helu

HEL

HEL
Helm denotes defence: EaJhtlm, happy
defence; Sighelm, viftorious defence;
Berthelm, eminent defence; Vikt Amyntas
and Bot-iu! among the Greeks. Gibf. Cam.
HELM. «. /. [helm, Saxon, from htlaii,
3.%

to coyer, to proteft.]
covering for the head in war ; a hel1 .
met; a morrion; an headpiece.

A

FnQce fpreids his banners in our noifelefs land
With plumed htlm the flayer begins his threats.
Hhakefftari.

J.

creft.

,

crelb,

More might be added lA bdmit

To enable to furmount

4. [t)elma,
rudder.

They did not leave the *«/« inftorms
And fuch they are make happy dates. Ben Jonjon.
More in profperity is reafon toft

.

_

To free from pain or vexation.

6.

Help and eafe them, but by no means bemoan
^*<'**them.

To cure; to heal: with ^f.

is difficult

Thofe fewwharefide among us, onlybecaufe they

Thofe dofing flcies may ftill continue bright
But who can help it, if you'll make it night. Dryd.
She, betwixt her modelly and pride.
Her wilhes, which Qie could not help would hide.
Dryden,
It is reckoned ill manners for men to quarrel upon
which
is
a
thing
that
difference in opinion, becaufe
no man can help in himfelf._
forbear; to avoid.
11.

12.

The helmed cherubir*

hel?iu\

A helm

;

13.

[from

adj.

14.

7i

HELP

part, helped, or holpen.

1.

helped,

or holb;

\hilpan, Gothick

^

,

^

underftanding and direfthis expreflions.
40 help
"^ his
SiiUingjieel.

language,
a. It has, in familiar

the particle

which feems to have meant, originally, out e/a difficulty.
out,

This he conceives not hard to bring about.
DryJen
of you Ihould join to helf him cut.

If all

Whit 1 off-.r is To far from doing any dilkindnefs
^aaenw uc CBgagel io, that it

to thccavTc tbtfc

1

take my leave. Tope.

^hakefp.

Been.

tation.

Bcnnet's grave look was a pretence,
And Danby's matchlefs impudence
Dryden.
Help'd to fupport the knave.
generous prefent helps to perfuadc a> well as an

A

Uarib,

agreeable perfon.

To bring a fupply.

2.

Some wanting the talent to write, made it their
care that the aitors Ihould help out where the mufes
Rymer.

failed.

U^LV.Ti.f. [from the verb; hulj>e, Dutch.]
1.

Afliftance; aid; fupport; fuccour.
MulealTes defpaiting to recover the city, hardly
tfcaped hit entpaiM haods hy the Booil help of his
uncle.

with

any

thing

4.

And helper to a hulband.
A fupernumerary fervant.
I live in the

Shakefp:

corner of a vaft unAirnilbed houfe

in the ftable, a footman, and an old maid.

Sv/ifi.

He'lpful. adj. [help and fuH.]
Ufeful ; that which gives afliftance.

1

Let's fight with gentle words,
time lend friends, and friends their belpfi/l
fwords.
Sbaie/p.
He orders all the fuccoufs which they brings
The helpful and the good about him run.
Dryden,
And form an army.

'Till

Wholefome; falutary.

2.

A fkilful chymift can as well, by feparation of
RmUi^i,

He'lpless. adj. [from W/.]
1. Wanting power to fuccour one's felf.
One dire (hot

To contribute afliftance.

,

fupplies

with to.

Hath brought me up tu be your daughter's dower,
As il hath fated her to be my motive,

To Help, "v, n.

>^/'-

'

A man.reads his prayers out of a book, as a means

:

as poifon out of the moft healthful herbs.

In plenty ftarving, tantaliz'd in ftate.

1

that

wanted

vifible elements, draw i&r/e/u/ medicines out of poifon,

And complaifantly help'd to all 1 hate^

O

told.

One

3.

Mac. viii. ij.

Difcreet followers and fervants help much torepu-

For boldeft hcirls good fortune helfeth out. Fairfax.
Pjalms.
Lord, make h'afte to help me.
God belfeJ him againll the Fhiliftines. a Chron.
Thev helped them in all things with filver and

Compairioi), the mother of tears, is not always a
mere idle fpcdlator, but an helper oftentimes of evilk.
More.

VKJirange.

Sir, how comes it you
Have help to make this refcue i

pelpan, Saxon.]
To affift; to fupport ; to aid.
Let us work as valiant men behoves

"Taylor's Rule of li'ving holy.

Zech.

To prefent at table.

Treated, carefs'd, and tir'd,

is

One that adminifters remedy.

2.

To fupply with; to fur-

to his oxen again.

i''''2-

preter.

5 yo. viii.
impofTible for that man to dcfpair who
remembers that his helper is omnipotent.
It

my family confilis of a fteward, a groom, a helper

I

4a/*.»«®-.]

Relating to worms-

low helpers to the truth.

Heaven

The man that is now with Tiefias can helf him

Dryden.

Helmi'kthick.

Theie was not any left, nor any helper {or Ifrael.
2 Kings.

Whom they would help to a kingdom, thofe reignj
and whom again they would, they difplace.

Irom helmet to the fpur all bleeding o'er.

an aider;

We ought to receive fuch, that we might be teU

ai(h with.

for the head.
and fightwg;
I faw him down^ thtice up again,

an auxiliary;

one that helps or affifts.

To promote; to forward.

To Helf to.

[firom ielp.]

An afliftant;

1.

_

a headpiece ; armour

Shakeff.
Sev'n darti are thrown at once, and fome rebound
found.
helmet
V\i
fome
on
From his bright (hield,

Holder on Speech,

that fuch things he

If you make the earth narrower at the bottom
than at the top, in fafhion of a fugar-loaf teverfcd,
Bacon.
it WAX help the experiment.

Are feen in glittering ranks with wings difplay'd.

He'lmet. »./. [Probably a diminutive of

believing,

And ttiey helped forward the affliftive.

a head-piece.
Millott.

There is no help for it, but he m^ifl be taught ac.
cordingty to comply with the faulty way of writing.

Stvift.

AilerUry.
faw and heard.
i cannot help remarking the refemblance betwixt
him and our author in qualities, fame, and fortune.
fope.

the bufinefs he
proclamation.
hath helmed, mull give them a better
Shakejf.

He'lmed. W/. [fromWw.] Furniihed with

Remedy.

4.

To

He cannot help

Hanmtr.

gnide
iuiut , to conduft.
The very ftream of his life, and

Coral is in ufe ai an help to the teeth of children.
Bacon.

If they take offence when we give none, it is a
thing we cannot help, and therefore the whole bUme
Sanderfon.
tnuft lie upon them.
It is a high point of ill nature to make fport with
help.
cannot
he
any man's imperfeiSions that
L' Ejirange.

to

Sbakeff.
When you curfe them as enemies.
To Helm. t^. a. [from the noun.] To

That which forwards or promotes.

Stiuft.

cannot Af//> it.

determine whether^^^^/waK or defender is
intended: \\iivt^Jieerfman.
Von flander
The helms o' ih' ftate, who care for you like fathers.

Though thelc contrivances increafe the power, yet
they proportionably protrad the time; that whicK
by fuch hel/)s one man may do in a hundred days,
may be done by the immediate ftrength of a hundred
Wilkini.
men iii one day.
Virtue is a friend and an help to nature ; but It is
vice aiid luxury that deftroys it, and the difcafet of
intemperance arc the natural product of the lins of
Stufh.
intemperance.
Another help St. Paul himfelf afTords us towards
the attaining the true meaning contained in hit
Locke.
epiftles.

He'lper. «./.

To prevent; to hinder.

10.

^•"V'-

it

That whicTi gives help.

I.

-Ceafe to lament for that thou can'ft not help ;
And ftudy help for that which thou lament'lt. Shak.

means; but that is no
1 may be wrong in the
the helm
obieflion againft the defign : let thofe at

the following line

Lmke.
from them.
So great is the llupidity of fome of ihnfe, that
they may have no fenfe ol the help adminiftred to
Umalridge.
them.

To remedy; to cnange for the better.

9.

The Ration of covemment.

6. In

notiont, wliere he thinks he has not the Ica.l help

3.

8. It is ufed commonly before the difeafe.
Gerard.
The true calamus helps coughs.

Dtnbam.

.

He may be beholden to experience and lequirei

Sbakefp.

To hilp him o/'his blindnefs.

a

_

Obfolete.

Love doth to her eyes repair,

?air occafion fliews the fpringing gale.
And infteft guides the helm, and honour fwelU the
trior.
&il.

contrive it better.

with off.

Having never learned any laudable manual art,

Than (hips in ftorms, their helms and anchors loft.

c.

:

they have rccourfe to thofe foolilh or ill ways in ufe,
Lotke.
to help off their time.

tafut

the

iMke.

ever the difficulty without afiy rebuke.

7.

ftcerage;

Eccl. it. lo.

with ovtr.

:

Wherever they are at a ftand, help them prefently

,

The vulgar chymift* themfclves pretend to be able,
operations, to
by repeated cohobations, and other fit
make the diftilled parts of a concrete bring its own
Boyle.
mmtuum over the helm.

The

with up.

he hath not another to help him up._
(..

mantles,

The upper part of the retort.

Saxon.]

:

Woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for

Camden's Remaini.

and fupporlers.

3.

To raife by help

|.

To remove by help
J.

Dryitn.
Mneftheus lays hard load upon his helm.
The part of a coat of arms that bears the

H ETi

dots them » real fervice, and h'lps them out »iih^
tyoodwarJ.
the main thing whereat they llucW.
The God of learning and of light,
Would want a god himfelf to help him out. Swift.

Xmlles.

Clole by the board the prince's main-maft bore;
Dryden.
All three now helplefs by each other lie,
Let our enemies rage and perfecute thr poor and
the helplefs i but let it be our glory to be pore aiid
peaceable.
Rogers,
2.

Wanting fupport or afliftance.
How Ihall I then your helplefs fame defend?
'Twill then be infamy to feem your friend.

3.

Pope.

Irremediable ; admitting no help.
Such helplefs harms it's better hidden keep,

Than rip up grief, where it may not avail. Sfenfer,
This is
4. Unfupplied : void : with of.
unufual, perhaps improper.
Naked he lies, and ready to expire,
Helflefs of all that human wants require.

Dryden.

He'lplessly. ad-v. [from helple/t.'\

With-

out ability; without fuccour.
He'lplessness. «./. [itombtlfl^s.l Want
of ability; want of fuccour.

HEM

HEM

HiLTER-SKELTER. adv. [As Skinuer fancies from ))eol}-rep j-ceaoo, the darknefs

of hell,

hell

fays

in the plane of one of its greateft circles

he, being a place of

trfa hatchet.

That p!.ice is carih,

Shakelp.

twitch 'd his dangling garter from his knee

I

turaultuoully.

utJI™
HEN.
n.f. [)3enne, Saxon and Dutch

Sir [ohn, I am thy Fulol, anJ thy friend;
And Brltir-Jkchtr have I rode to England,
And tidings do I bring.
Sbakiff.
He had no fooncr turned his back but they were at

Of Paradife, the higheft from whofe top
Tlie hemijfhire of carih, in cleared kea
Stretch'd out to th" ampleft reach of profpefl lay.

German, a cock.]
Thcthefemaleofahoufe-cock.
z. The female of any
land fowl.

In a hurry; without order;

it htller-Jkeller,

VEjlrungi.

Helve, ff./.

The handle

[Jxipe, Saxon.]

and in the opogeum ;

...

So in this hemi/pbere our utraoft view
Is only bounded bj;our king and
you.

fewed to keep the threads from fpreading.
Rowlers mult be made of even cloth, vi hite and
gentle, without him, feam, or thread hanging by.

Hemmen, Dutch.] The noife uttered by
a fadden and violent expiratpn of the
breath.
J would try if I could cry ient, and have him.
Sbaif/f.
lie

loves

to clear his pipes in good air,

and is

not a little pleafed with any one who takes notice of
Ihe llreogth which be llill exerts in his morning
Addijin.
irmt.

Hem! [Lat.J

3. Interjta.

yi Hem. -v. a.
1.

3. To endofe

to environ ; to confine ; to
;
fliut: perhaps always with a particle; as,
ia, about, rouad.
So of citiicr Itde, ftretchirg itfelf in a narrow
length, was it bemmid in by woody hills, as if indeed nature had meant therein to nuke a place for

beholden.

Sidnty.

What lets ui then the great Jerufalem
With valiant f^uadrons round ab«ut vshtm V Fairf,
Why, Neptune, hall thou made us ftand alone,
Divided from the world for this, fay they

Uexm'd /« to be a fpoil to tyranny.
Daniel.

To Hem. -v. n. [hemmen, Dutch.]

To utter

'O/. [homhemi/phere.']
<7<//.rfroraA

Half round;

J

A

con-

The thin film ot the water fwells above the furface
of the water itfwims on, and commonly conftitutes
hemiffhericai bodies with it.
BoyU.
A pyrites, fUced in the cavity of another ot an
bemifpbericlt figure, in much the lame manner
as an
acorn in its cup.
Houd-warJ,

Hemistich,
French.]

w.

/ [ii,t*.y>^i«

Hen.harm.
)„./. A kind of kite.
Hen-harrier./ Jin/worlh. Socalled
probably from deftroying chickens.

Hen-hearted,

hemi,
nijiichc.

j

Daftardly;
low word.

Haifa verfe.

He broke off in

the hemijlicb, or m'lJft of the
verfe j but feizcd, as it were, with a divine
fury, he
made up the Utter part of the btmljiicb.
Dryden

He'mlock.

». /.

[Jjemloc,

violent

A ftepdanie too

man as his wife.

P''fe.

cxpulfion of

the

1

A pain that affefts

only one part of the head at a time.

A half

round.

He'mina. »./.

An ancient meafurc: now
oicd in medicine to Cgnify about ten
ounces in meafure.
i^/nrj.

», /.
[J^fbivv,
nyiviru, to ftrilce or feize.]

and

A palfy, or

any nervous affedion relating thereunto,
that feizes, one fide at a time; fome partial diforder of the nervous fyftem.

It is very often found growing

banks and old dunghills.

;

h'.

HK'.MISPHERE. »./. [i/w-^a?;.., *,«//jihere, French.] The half of a globe when
Vol. I.
;

upon the
is

That to which old Sccrales wai CHrs'd,

Or heaiane juke, to fwcll 'em 'till they burft.
Dryden.

H £ N B T. K./ [Alfinefoliis hederacels.} A
I

plant.
In a fcarcity in Silefia a rumour was fpread of its
raining milletfeed ; but it was found to be only the
feed of the ivy-leaved fpcedwell, or fmall henbit.

Derham't Phyf. Theology.

HENCE, adv. ox interj. [Jjeonan, Saxon j

;

I .

linen and ropes are made.
It hath digitated leaves oppofite to one another
the flowers have no vifible petals; it is male and
female in diflierent plaou. Its bark is ufeful for
cordage and cloth.
Miller.
Let gallows go for dog; let man go free.
And let not htmfi his windpipe fuffbcate.
Sbak.

Hemp and flax arc commodities that defcrvc encouragement, both for their ufefulnefs and profit.

Sbakefpt

Th Almighty hath not built
Here for his envy ; will not drive us hence. Miltall
A fullcn prudence drew thee hence
From noife, fraud, and impertinence,
Rafcommon,
2. Away ; to a diftancc.
word of com'

A

mand.
Be not found here ; henee with your little ones,

[from hemp-l

found wild by
Miller.

Made of

In foul reproach of knighthood's fair degree.

About bit neck a bimpen rope he wean,
Fairy Q.
Behold
Upon the hempen tackle Oiip-boys climbing. Shak.

From this place to another,
Difclutge my follow'rs; let tliem henee away,
f torn Richard's night to Bolingbioke's fair day,

A plant.

hemp.

of

hennes, oldEnglifh.]

Dutch

A fibrous plant of which coarfe

ditches and fides of rivers.

fides

a very poifonous
Miller.

Siiifi.

[hemorrhoidal, Fr.
Belonging to the veins

Befidcs there are hemorrhages, from the nofe and
bemorrboidal veins, and fluxes of rheum.
Ray.
Emboli upon the field, a battle flood
Of leeches, (pouting hetim rboidal blood.
Garth.

adj.

This

?'•"'•

The piles; theemrods.-

The common hemp agrmony is

A

plant.

He'morRHoidal. adj.

He'mpen,

Tickell.

He'nbane. «.y; [hjojcjamus, Latin.]

Arhuthnot

/&afl»/,r,

Swift.

Addfon.

They oft havefally'd out to pillage
The hen.rooflt of (bme peaceful village.

Ray.

he'morrhoids. «./. [«,>.jf.«r.5

HiMr Agrimony, n./.

frequented by a company of rogues,

rcojl is fure to pay for it.

Mortimer.

half,

is

If a man profecutes gypfics with fcventy, his ben~

:

^irrcy.

He'mictcle. a./. [ii/MKuxx^.]

Her houfe

whom (he encourageth to rob his hen.roajls.

Twenty days falling will notdiminifli its quantity

HEMP. n.f. [JJinep, Sax,

The

Many a poor deiil flands to a whipping poft for
the pilfering of a filverfpo«p,
or the robbing of a
hcn^ooji.
VEJirange.

;

cannabis. ]

Arhuthnot.

[hen znA. ro!>Ji.\
place where the poultry reft.

"1

got the hemirrhtidt.

Dryden.

Hen-roost. »./

Sbakefp. King Lear.
We cannot with certainty affirm that no man
can be nourilhed by wood or ftones, or that aU men
will be poifoned by bemlocit.
Locke.

morrhoids,Vr.'\

have a curfed flie.

he neighbours reported that he was hen-pecked,
which was impoffible, by fuch a mild-fpirited wo-

Crown'd with rank-fumiier and furrow-weeds.

fo much as one great bcmorrbage.

Go-

1

With hardock, hemlock.

flux of blood.
Great hemorrhagji fucceeds the feparation.

I

„.,

Miller.

He'morrhace. «r./. [«<)iH|J»'»yi'« hemor~ " A violent
He'morrhacv. J
ragie, Fr.J

A

Who rules my hen-peck' d (ire, and orders me.

He was met even now

from hemorrhoids. ]

breath.

the flcull, or head J

cine, though it is notious; but the i^War* of
the
antients, which was fuch deadly poifon, is generally

[hen and heart.\
like a hen,

verned by the wife.

herb.

The leaves are cut into many minute fegments
the petals of ilie flower are bifid, heart.fliaped, and
unequal the flower is fucceeded by two fljott channeled feeds.
One fort is fometimes ufed in medi-

adj.

cowardly;

He.v.pecked. adj. [hen and/«if(/.]

An

Saxon.]

Addikn.
wade.

The heath ktn flutters.
Thomfon.
Hen-d river. »./ [htH z.viAdnver.\
kind of hawk.
The hen-dri-ver 1 forbear to name.
ff'altolr.

in the fundament.

H e'm c R A VY. »./. [iiVM-K, half, and Kfiiut,

He'miplecv.

^
Oe'r the Iracklefs

thyd<n.

taining half a globe,

I

Leaving affliction hence no way to 6y i
I hurry me in haftr away,
And find his honour in a pound,
Hrmm'd by a triple circle rawrj,
Che^iitr'd with ribbons, blue and green.

by

wuh his fongs during the whole time of her fitting.

;

fuppofed different.

All the lliitt about
Wts hem'd with golden fringe.
Fairy Slueen.
Along the tltoar of filver-ftreaming Thames,
Whofc rulliy bank, the which his river bemt. Sfcnf.

noife

"I

withm her hearing, and by that means diva
ts her

:

To clofe the edge of cloth by a hem or

double border fewed together.
2. 'i'o border ; to edge

a

Hemisphe'iiical.

Hemisphe'rick.

HEM.».y; [f)em, Saxon.]
1. The edge of a garment doubled
and

neighbouring bou^h

Brovin.

another is llain, was the work of Cod himfelf.
Kaitigi'i HiJ!i,ry.

with a helve or handle.

Whilft the hen bird is covering her eggs,
the male
generally lakes his ftand upon a

motion

for therein his

IS flower.

In open profpcft nothi
o bounds our eye.
Until the earth feems join'd unto the Iky

To tit

The peacock, pheafant, and goldfinch cocks Jiaie
<^°'o"rs ; the ton have not.
Hacov.
\«^^

Milioit.
/of'i-,

Gay.

han,

;

I.

1 he fun is more poiiierful an the northern hanif.

of an axe.
The flipping of an axe from the helve, »*ereby

To Helve, -j. a [from the noun.J

"°' "'"^" '"' *'•"'/"' 1""? Wrew.

A hill

throwing books at one anoilier's

heads.

2.

Ye fhall have a bempen caudle then, ar.d the help

the feat of man ; that lighL
His Jay, which elfe, as th' other btmijfheve.
Night would invade.
Milton

confufion.j

'

HEN

jt is fuppofed to be cut through its eeiure'

3.

Hence with denial vain, and coy excufe.

Shakef^.
Milton.

At a diftance; in other places.

Not in

ufe.

Why fliould I then be falfe, (inoe it it true
That I mull die here, and live hence by truth
Sbaktfp.
All members of our caufc, both here and hence.
That are iufioewcd to this aAion,
Shakrfp.

6 C

4,

From

HEN
From this time

4.

;

in the future.

He who cin rcAfon well to-day about one fort of
malicri, cannot at all rcafon to-day about oibers>
Locke.
though perhaps a year henct he may.
Let uot posterity a ihaufand years hence look for

if

Mood;

of the Lord the beginning of wifdom.

Tilhtfi^n,

From this caufe; from this ground.

6.

By too ftrong a projeillile motion the aliment lends
to putrefaiiion : hence may be deduced the force of
jiriiuthnot on Aiim.
exc.'cifc in helping digefliun.

From this

7.

fource; from this original

from this ftorc.
My Flora was my fun

The cyflick gall is thick ana iutcr.fely bmcr
the bifaiick gall is more fluid, and not fo bitter.

;

Arhuibnot en AUments.

Heps. u.

for as

^

Heptac'apsola.

and va»i'».]

Heacc fignificsyVoCT

erraand *»;&'•]

fend off; todifpatch toa dillance.

Ob-

fblete.
Go, bawling cur ! thy hungry maw go fill
On yon foul flocic, belonging not to me;
With that his dog he benc'd his flock he curs'd.
Sidney.

Hencefo'rth. aih. [henonpopB, Saxon.J
From this time forward.

Who then htnceforlb to our defence will come
and

far->^

2.

'1

Dryden.

To be my bencbman.
''

'
.

All in rich liw:ly clad,
F.

-N

love Latin,

To feJze

;

/frt'/-

to lay hold on.

I'crhsjis

the

tt.

/, [t>J^»ce

and vwmt.J

A figare of eleven fides or angles.
VI p N s - F E fc T . ». /. fumar. a Je^ium,

fumitory.

Hedge

1.

Derbam,

.

Dryden.

I bred'you up to arms, rais'd you tq ^wci.
Dryden.
Indeed to lave a crowd, nut hin but yours.

An officer whofe bufinefs it is to regifler
genealogies, adjuft enfigns armorial, regulate funerals, and anciently to carry mef-

fagcs between princes, and proclaim war
and peace.

Herbs coUedivcIy ; grafs;

pafture.

Rocks liecovcr'd viith eternal I'now ;

Thin herbage in the plaiiis,'aiid friiitlefs fields.
Dryden.
At the time tlM> deluge came, the earth was loaded

And what his lortunc vranted, h^rs could mend.

\.

are fittrd

He'rbage, »./. {herbage, French.]

CoijoUy.

German ]
Siake/f.

to their food; the rapaholding, and tearing their prey
the ifiiafUKitogatheiiiig and comminulioii 01 veueteeth

cious to catching,

Some fecret charm did all her aib attend.

Have ifff£ the fatc<,.aiid very pear upon-^

The duke is entering.

Feeding on vegetables ; perhaps not properly.
Their

tabels.

HE'RALDi' »./. |^/.»cfv7».'/, French; herald,

ffrj/'onThe generous and graveft citizens

Hf.nde'cacon.

2.

charms, fuch charms as hers.

.

Belonging to herbs.
Ginger is the root of neither tree nor trunk ; but
an herbaceous plant, lefembling the water fiowef.de
btoivn.
luce.

.

Upon advice, hath drawn ray love from her. Shaii.
Thine own unworthinels.
Will tlill that thou art mine not bers confel's.

following paflage is corrupt, and lliould
be read litmmed ; or it inay laeaa /«> take
•

.

This pride ol bcrs.

which feems borrowed fA)m

To crovvdi to fuf;round.

-

Herba'ceous. adj. [from ^^/ia Latin.]
•li

:

Orydeti.

With that the fetgc-iiiu ir«/ the young man (Vout,
And bocnd him likewifc in a wotiiiicfs chain. Fair/.
2.

Coviley.

That burv'd her 1 lov d, ftiould bury me. Diydtn.
Hers, pronoun. This is ufed when it refers
to a fubftantive going before .it, fuch are

hatfd oihund, Teutonick.]^
J.

Hbakefftart's He»ry V.

plant.

With thoufand ftars attending on her trai.i
With her they rife, with ber they letagjin. Couley.

D. 1'. a. [heiiban, Saxon, from hcndo,

A

Herb Chriji^fher, or bane-berries, ti.f.

.Should I be left, and thou be loft, the fea,

'ShaieJ^e'dre,

ani ol a kind.

'

."^nd I would have i"feem toothers fo.
The moon aiofc clad o'er in light,

:

Three hinchmen were for ev'ry knight aflien'd,

loW

hat tear attends btr not.

Sbakeff,

Millon.
Efpoufed Evedeck'd lirlVhcr nupiia! bed,
Unhappy, from wl.om ftiU conceal'd does lie
Cvutey.
luxury.
roois
haimiels
the
and
Of herbs
If the leaves are of chief ule to us, then we call
lyatn's Logick.
them Aerir; as fage and mint.
Herb-ciiwi. animals, which don't ruminate, have
ftrong grinders, and chew much. Arbuihn!,t on .4tim,

Cowley.

She cannot feemdeiorm'd to inc,

folete.

'

Medea gather'd the enchanted herbs
That did renew old j'Efon.
With fweei-Imellingic^^f

!

England is fo idly king'd;

max, Skiamr; hcnjj"!, a horfe, and man,
A page; an attendant, ObSpefman.]

'

In fuch a night

,

Her fceptre fo fantalf ically borne,

Hi'MGHMAN. ft./, [liync, 3 fervSnt, and

beg a little chaugling boyi

have nothing woody in them j as graU and hcmlo-k.
Locke.

Sbaktjf. As you like it.

new tavouiitcsibechofe,

And fo Sul'anna took ber place.
The oblique cafe oi Jhe.

Sb.iit/p.

Why (hculd Titania crofs her Oberon

Htrit are thofe plants wliofe ftalks are folt, and

1 liat (he to govern were untit,

I

I do but

Metals may blazon common beauties ; (he
Makes peaiU .Tiid planets humble heraldry. Chaii,
HERB. nf. \herLe, French; herba.^Mm.^

Judith held the fov'reign pow'r
"Wo.id'rous beautiful be'r face ;
But fo weak and fmJl btr wit,

^rncrfbrvfard w\\\ I bear

fuch who' are endued v^ith good qualities.

Dertham.
3. Blazonry.

t

From this time to all futurity.

befeech you ;
Shak^fp.
Henceforward am ever rul'd by you.
The royal academy will admit hencefortuat d inly

Regiftry of genealogies.
''1
was no fallc heraldry nhen madnefsdrew
Her pedigree from thofc who too much knew.

'Till iip-in arms my pallionrolc,
Cent/ley.
And calt away her yoke.
One monih, three days, apd half an hour,

?

1

2.

About his neck,

Dry den.

French;

Peacham.
am writing oi heraldry.
Grant her, bcGdes, of noble blood that ran
Dryden.
In ancient veins, ere lt,eraldry began.

A green and gilded fnake had wreath'd ilfelf.
Who with her head, nimble in threats, apptoach'd

If we treat gallartfoldiers in this fort.

[beraulderie,

1

woman.

Still

/.

The art or office of a herald.

1.

which at length became

The opening ol his mouth.

n.

from herald.']

the female pofl'effive.]
Belonging to a female; of a Ihe; of a

1.

Shakeffemre.

Not'pay thee.

He'ralury.

Camden.

their, or of them,

Tafte this, and be hencfurtb among the gods,
Milton.
Thyfelf a goddefs.
I never from thy fide bcHcefortb will ftray,
Milton.
•Till day droop.

Upon my target three lair (hining funs.

We are fcnt from our royal maftcr,
Onlv to herald thee into his light,

Hek. profi. rhefva, hep, in Saxon ftood for

I'hanes andkinfmen,

Shakeffeare' t Macbeth.
tiencefarth be earls.
Never btncrfarib (hall I joy again ;
Shak.
Never, oh, never, (hall I fee more joy.
Happier thou may'sft be, worthier can'ftnot be j

[^dwf^

ufed.

French;
A fevenfoW government.
[heptarchie,

England began not to be a people, when Allrcd
reduced it into a monarchy; lor ihc materials thcrcol
were extant before, namely, under the heftarchy.
Hale's origin of Mankind.
The next returning planetary hour
Of Mars, who fliared the biptaitby of pow'r
Dryden.
His fteps bold Aicite to the temple bent.

To

7oH£NCr,

Shakeff,

But fuch an honelt chronicler as Gillfith.

y'eHE'RALD. "v-a. [from the noun.] To
A word not
introduce as by an herald.

In the Saxon beftarchy \ hnd little noted oi arms,
Germans, of whom they defcciiiied, ufed

ihields.

.

I

\Jieptacone,

ing feven angles or fides.

Behold on Latian mores a toreigii prince! DryJen.
-v- a. [from the adverb.]

'

A

He'ptarchy. n. f.
albeit the

l*ardon

A

Alter my death wilh no other herald.
No other Ipeaker of my living actions.

Fr. ?tt«
figure with feven fides or

n. f.

Mepta'gonal.c^' \Jrom.hcptagon.'\ Hav-

this.

'

adj.\\tt» &r^ capjula.]

angles.

An ancieat aulhoTprophefy'd^re«»/^/i«,

adrVi

,
When the molt mighty gods, by tokens, fend
.
Shak'ff^
Such dreadful btialds to altonilh m.
It was the laik, the beralJoixht morn. HoaLjf.
proclaimcr; a publiflier.
3.

Bacon.

(Carving.

thy pride and fearch the herald's roil.

Where thou lliait tind thy lanious pedigiee. D'yden.
2. A precurfor, a forerunner; a harbinger.
It IS the pirt of men to fear and tremble,

^
In hard winters there "is obferved great plenty 01
befs and haws, which prefcrve the fmall birds from

SueUltig.

From hence is a vicious expreflion, which
ufc even among good authors,
as the original force of the word hence\V2&

tvarJ.]

I'Iciife

commonly
Ainjiuorth.

written hips.

crept into

HENCEro'swARD.

Hawthorn-berries

HEPTAGON,

All other faces borrowed hence
Thoir light and grace as ftars do thence.

gradually forgotten.

f.

Having feven cavities or cells.

One fun, To but one Flora was ;

8.

the evacuated blood be florid, it is ftomach
Harliy.
if ted and copious, it is btj'a.ick.

that Soloinau calls the tear

is,

For l^ricl degrees of rank or Iiile look ;
'Tis 'gainft the maniiers of an epigram,
Ben Jonfon.
.\nd I a poet here, no herald am.
When time (hall ferve let but the herald cry.
S bake/feat e'l King Ltar.
And 1 'II appear again.
Embaliador of peace, if peace jou chule
Dryden.
Or heruld of a war, if jou rctufe.

Belonging to the liver.

For this reafon;' in confequcncc of this.
Hence perhaps it

May tione, whofe fcatter'd names honour my boolu

Hepa'tTCAL. \adj. [hepatieui,lAt\n;hepaHtPA'ricK. J //ya/, French, from i)'T«f.]

Aibutb,

truth in the voluminous aiiualsot pctlanit.

5.

HER

HER

'With herbage, and thronged with animals.
2.

Wosfi-u'.

The tyihe and the right of pafture. Jin/,

He'r B A L. «.y.. (from herb.] A book containing the names and defcripiioa of
plants..

We

leave the defcriplion of plants to berbals, and
Bacon.
other like books of natural hillory.
Such a plant will not be found in the herbal oi

Bnwn.

nature.

As

for the

medicinal ufes of plaots, the large

beib.iL its: ample tcllimoaics thereof.

M»re.

Our

i

HER

HER
n, f.

[iiom berbal.~i

A man

Ikilled in herbs.
Hiirialijh have diftihguiOied them, naming that
the m.ile whole leaves arelJgbter, and fruit rounder.
Brctvn.

Hi'rbar.

To affociate;

2.

to give fome loofe delcription of here a mountain and

there a plain, here 3 morafs, and there a river, wood-

number or party.
held amur.g his friends, and feem
One of (he number.
Mdifon's Calc.
Run to towiis to her J with kn.ives and fools.
And undiftinguilh'i pafs among the crowd. iValJh.
I '11

To Herd. f. a.

.

to become one of any

together, like fdlow-failors in a liorm.

[A word I believe Qnly to

». /.

be found in Sfienjer.] Herb ; plant.
The rool hcrrot was arched over head^
And deck'd with Sowers and itriart daintily.

Narrii.

here a honiPr, and there\ houfe, to which others 1>y
degrees were joined.
Sptatt's Sermons.
He tliat tides polt through a country may be able

'i'o

thro*' or put into an

herd.

Are-^/ri/t^wirh the vulgar.

Kay,
con!tuute a fpecifick diflercnce.
As tothcfuci, their feed hath been difcovsred and
(hewed me hril by an ingenious bfrbariji. Dfybam.

,

He'rDMAn.

7

Hl'rdsman.

5

herds: formerly, an owner of herds.
A herd/man rich, ot much account was he,

Worthy enough a .6^r(^md;r, if e'er thou
Thefe rural latches to his enttance open,

whom no evil did reign, or good appear.

h. /. [from herb.'\ One cuherbs. This feems a millake for

The chearful 6re,

Now

writPlace of temporary refidence.
ten harbour.
The German lord, when he went ont of Newgate
into the cart, look order to have his
his lall hfrior^agi.

He'rbous. adj.

\_herbi)/ui,

arms fet

up in

Brn Joiifin.

I.

A

woman that fells hcrM.
was like to be pulled to pieces by brewer, butcher,
and baker, even my bftbvroman dunn'd me as I
Athuthm^t.
went along.
He'rbv. adj. [from herb.] Having the naI

ture of lie rbs.

HERD. » /. [ptort>, Saxon.]
1. A number of beads together. It is peculiarly applied to black cattle.

4..

A company of men, in contempt or detcdation.

It anciently fignified a keoper of cattle,
and in Scotland it is ftil! ufed. [)3)Tib,
Saxon.] A fenfe flill retained in compo-

as goatherd.

To Herd. v. v. [from the noon.]

To run in herds or companies.
Weak women (hould, in danger, herd like deer.
Drydtn.

HE'REDlTAMENt. ff.f. [h.trediiim, Latin.]

A law term denoting inheritance, or he-

Dryden.

reditary eftate.

HERE'DITARY-7<//. [hereditaire, French;
Ccnuley.

by right of inheritance; defcending by
inheritance.

It is often oppofed to there •,'vi\ one place,

To thee and thine, hereditary e.itr.

dillinguifhed from another.
Good-night, mine eyes do itch ;
Doth that bode weeping ?

—

*1 is neither hire nor ihere.

PoflefTed or claimed

bereditariui , Latin.]

However, friend, here'i to the king, one cries
To him who was the king, the friend replies. Prior.

Remain this ample third L>faur lair kingdom. Shak,
Thefe old fellows

Have their ingratitude in them hereditary. Sbakejp.

He fliall afcend

Sbakefp. Othello.

We aie come to fee thee fight, to fee thee foigne,
to fee thee traverfc, to fee thee here, to fee thee there.

Shatrflieare.

Survey the world, and where one Cato (hine«.
OryJert.
Count a degenerate lerJ of Cattlmes.
I do not remember where ever God delivered his
oracles by the multitude, or nature trurh by the berj,

.\dam being neither a monarch, nor his imaginary
monarchy hered/table, the power which is now in
Locke,
the world is not that which was Adam's.

drinking a health,

Hrre't to thee, Dick.

5.

Fetching mad bounds.
Sbakefp.
There hr.d a her J of heiferj, wand'ring o'er
The neighbouring hill, and drive them to the fliore.
Addifon.

Ill

IVatts.

thing's.

Here'ditable. adj. [*arr«, Latin.] Whatever may be occupied as inheritance.

making an offer or attempt.

'Tisfinilh'd.

Hooker.

[here ar\d by.] By this.
In what cit.ite the lathers relied, which were dead
befoie, it is not hereby cither one way or other deter-,
mined.
Hooker.
Hereby the Moorsare not excluded by beauty, thete
being in this defcription no confideration of colours.
Broxun.
The acquifition of truth is of infinite concernment:
hereby we become aci]uainted with the nature of

Then here's for earnell

Flackt arc

/keep, and hirdi oxen or kine
Note a wild and wanton berJ,
Or rjce of youthful and unhandled colts,

could mean ?

Baccn,

It is ufed in

*Tis the divinity that fiirs within us ;
'Tis Heaven itlelt that points out an hereafter.
Addi/on's Cato,
And intimates eternity to man.
:'
I ftill diall wait
ie(-e<i/>er,
Prior.
new
and
future
ftate.
Some
a

Hereby', xd'v.

In this place.

hereafter.

3.

This.

not to be ufed but

One man coming to the tribune, to receive his do-

While he his fecond mis'ry fulFers here.
Cvivley.
To-day is ours, we have it here.
Cow/ay.
z. In the prefent ftate.
Thus Hull you be happy here, and more happy

but earth, and the procedures oi

earih, as tile and Hone, yieldeth any nufii or itriy
fubtlance.
Bacon.

a figurative nuun,

native, with a garland in his hand, the tribune,
offended hereat, deitunded what this fingularity

Bcfr»re they f-^rr approach,

Con-

Bacon.

A future ftate.

HtKE a't. ad-v. [herfzndat.] At this.

health in goblets

Old Siward, with ten thoufand warlike men,
SbaXefp.
AU ready at a point, was fetting Ibilh.
I, upon my frontiers Arre,
Millun
Keep refidence.
Here Nature finl begins
Her farthcft verge.
Milion.
How wretched does Prometheus* Aate appear.

taining herbs.
n./. [herb aniiBoman.l

his

HERE. ad-v. [hep, Saxon; hitr, Dutch.]

Diff.

He'rbulent. adj. [from herbula.'\

ptQvolie

DryJen.
crown'd.
When their herd/men couM not agree, tluy parted
Locke.
by confent.

YMxn.l Atiound-

ing with herbs.

I.

Milton.

So liands a Tbtacian berdfrmn with his/pear
Full in the gap, and hopesthc hunted bear, Drydtn.
Tbe herd/man, round

Ray,

In a future ftate.
You fliall be happy here, and more happy in r.

in pt)etr)'.

,

riihes in about an iiour.

Dryden.

is

Shelters in cool, and tends his palturing herds

He'rborouch. 71. f. [herberg, German.]

Milton.

Hereafter he from warfhall come,
Aiid bring his Trojans peace.

afte>.

At loop-holes cut through thickett thadc.

A curious htrborifi has a plant, whofe flower pe-

Egypt.

Hirea'fter. n.f.

There oft the Indian Aert^/wd/r, Ihiinning heat.

terbarift.

fition :

2.

A

with herbs.

He'rborist.

!j.

parts

From Canaan, to a land hereafter called

•

Hidnfy.

Shakeff.

The grand-child, with twelve fons increas'd de«

Scarce themfelves know how to hold
Iheephook, or have leam'd ought elie the leaft
That to the faithful herdman's art belongs. Milton.

He'rbid. aJj. \herbiJut,ljxm.'\ Covered

-

How worthy he is, Iwill leave to appear y6;«<i/rrt>

Shakfjp.

will devife a cruel death for thee.

1

In time to come ; in futurity.
rather than ftory him in his own hearing.

And you, enchantment.

Growing into herbs.

2.

1.

n.f. [herd xnA -man] Ont
employed in tending

111

No fubilance

A Herea'fter. ndv. [here znA after.]

Spenfer.-

ThcTe -^tT^f /i, which we upon you ftrow. Shak.
Herb E 'scent, adj. [^berbejcens, Latin.]

He'rbwoman

this place.
I faw herejictili nothing remarkable, except Augnl^us '5 bridge,
Addifon on Italy.

Beit JohJoii's Cattline.

He'rbelet. n.f. [Diminutive oi herb, or
of A^rW^, Latin.] A fmall herb.

rious in

rnqan this place.
Bid them farewell, Cordelia,' thot^ghunkind ;

Thou lofell /vre, a better where to find.
Shakeff.
H E R e A Bou Ts. rrtfo. [here and about.] About

However great we are, honelt and valiant,

Latin.] One (killed in herbs.
Ufbanjls have cxercifed a commendable curiofity Hf.'rdcroom. n.f. [herd ^nA groom.]
keeper of herds. Not in ufe.
iu fubdiviilmz pbnts ol the rmne denomination.
BoyU.
But who (hall judge the wager won or loA ?
much
fwiyeJ
by
the
opinions
iiien
too
He was
That rtiall yonder herdgroom, and none other.
cjrrcnl among terbatijlt^ that diiTcrent colours, or
m-jl'iplicity ot leaves in the flower, were fufficient to

land in one part, and favanas in another.
Locke.
6. Here kerns, in the following paffage, to

1- '^1l^^eft,

Faii_y Quttti.

He'rbaRIST. ».y^ [hrian'us, from l^erba,

'

to endear men to one another, and make them herd

Baker.

^

He'rbalist.

^H E iR

It is the nature of indigency, like common dangir,

Out btrhah are fufficiently ilored with planli.

Then this, then that man's aid, they crave, implore J

Poft here ior help, feek /Aerr their followers. Daniel.
1
would hjve in the heath lome thickers made
only of fweet-biiar and honey-fuckle, and fome wild

vineamongll; and the ground fet with violets; tor
thefe arc fwccf, mid prifpcr in the Ihade ; and ihcli:
to be in the heath htre and /;6eri', not in order.
Baein.
The devil mipht perhaps, by inward fuggeltions,
have drawn in here and there a tingle profelyte.
Covernmtnt of tbe Tongtie.
Your city, after the dreadful fire, was rebuilt, not
prebntly, by raifing coiiuaaed llteetsi but at fi'A

'

The throne hereditary, and bound his reign
With earth's wide bounds, his glory with

the
Milton.
heavens.
mute
creation
downward
while
the
bend
Thus

Their fight, and to their earthly mother tend,
NJan looks aloft, and with ere^cd eyes
Dryden' i Ovid.
B. holds Ins own hereditary fltics.

When iieroick vcrfc his youth Ihall raife.
And form it id hereditary praife. Drydtn's l^irgil.
Here'ditarily. «i/i/. [from hereditary.]

By inheritance.
Here

is

another,

who thinks one of the greatett

glories of his father was

to

have.dtltinguithed and

loved you, and who loves you berrditarily.

Pope,

Herei'n. adv. [here and iti.] In this.
How highly fi>evcr it may plcafc them with wordj
6 C 2

HER

HER

HER
•rtralh MCXtol krmoas, they (hall not ierifxelScii
Hooker,
yg^
Ixft «nd<»voun fliall be done bcriln. Shakfff.

dniTch of Chrift under the colour of herefy, when'
they cannot but grant it polTible even for him to be

Since tnilhs, abfolutely necelTary to falvation, aje
lb clearly revealed that we cannot err in them, unklswc be notorioufly wanting loourfelves, bmin the
{auli of the judgment is refolMd into a ptecedent de-

who, in their opinion, not only is of the church, but
holdeih the chiefeft place of authority over the fame f

S-Mb.
Into
[here and ialo.]

jealoufy that thofe words had fome icrr/zVa/ meaning.
Decay of Piety.

My

fault in the will.

Herei'nto. adv.

this.
Becaufe the point about which we drive is the
quality of our laws, our tirft entrance btreittto cannot
better be made than with confidcrition of the naHocktr.
ture of law in general.

Here'op.
of this.

ad'-j.

[fe^ando/;] From this;

Sbakifpeari,

Hereo'm. ad-v. [*wand«w.] Upon this.
we Ihould ftriftly infift hereon, the poflibility

Bro-wn't Vulgar Errours.
might fall into queftion.
HeREo'ut. ndi;. [here s.nA out,']

A bird all white, well feather'd on each win?,
Hire-r.ut up to the throne of God did fly.

Hfrn/er.

2. All the words compounded oi here and a
pn^pofition, except hereafter, are obfolete,
or obfolefcent ; never uJed in poetry, and

feldom in profe, by elegant writers, though
perhaps not unworthy to be retained.
tremetical, from eremite,

of I'fJi/*®-, a de-

fart ; heremetique, French. J Solitary ; fuit-

able to a hermit.'

You defcribe fo well your beremetical diit of life.
that none of the ancient anchorites could go beyond
Pofe.
you for a cave in a n>ck.

He'resy.

». /.

[here/e,

French; harrefis,

An opinion of private

Latin ; ijirij.J

men diflFerent from that of the catholick
and orthodox church.
Herefy prevaileth only by a counterfeit (hew of
Rafon, whereby notwithftanding it becometh invincible, unlefs it be convicted of fraud by manifeft
remonftrance clearly true, and unable to he wiihHooker.
As for fpeculative berefirs, they work mightily
upon men's wits ; yet do not produce great alteraBacon.
tions in Rates.
Let the truth of that religion I profefs be reprefcnted to her judgment, not in the odious difgulfes of
levity, (chifm, berefy, novelty, cruelly, and didoyf^i»g Cbarlei.
alty,

»ood.

He'resiaRCH. ». /.
ifX"" ]

French:

[herejjarque,

A leader in nerefy

;

the

head ofti herd of hereticks.
The pope declared him not only an hcretick, but
StHlitifJl.et.

an berefiarch,

HERETICK.

».

/.

French;

[heretique,

iujiriiwi.]
1.

is to heat the neck of a glals 'till it is jud
ready to melt, and then with a pair of hot pincer*

According to the hermetical or chemick
art.

For-

Heretofo're. ad-v, [hereto ini fore.]

1 have long defired to know you heretofore, with
honouring your virtue, tliough I love not your perfon.
Sidney,
So near is the canneflion between the civil (late
and religious, that beretofore^ou will find thegovernmcnt and the priedhood united in tlie fame perfon.
South.
now can form no more
SvifiL6ng fchemcs of life, as heretofore.

Hereunto', adv.

countries.

No hereiick] defire to fpread
Daviei.
Their wild opinions like thefe Epicures.
Bellarmin owns, that he has quoted a hereihk
Baker on Learning.
jnfhad Ota father.
When a Papift ufes the word bereiUks, he gene-

means Proteftants ; when a Protcftant ul'cs the

word, he means any pcrfons wilfully and contenkf'arti.
tiouHy obdinate in fundamental errours.

2. It is or has been ufed ludicroufly for any

one whofe opinion is erroneus.
1 rather will lufpefl the furi

with cold

Than thee with wantonnefs; chy honour (lands.
In him that was of late an hereiick.
As firm as lailh.

Shakejfeare

Here'tical. adj. [from heretkk.\ Con-

[here

and

He fufFered thofe things to putrify in bermetieally
fealed glaffes and velTels clofe covered with paper
and not only fo, but in vefTels co\'ered with fine lawn,
foas to admit the air, and keep out the infeAs : no
living thing was ever produced tliere.
Bentlry.

HE'RMIT. n. f, [hermite, French;

They which rightly confider after what fort the
tma hereunto is framed, mud ofnecefTtty

heart of

acknowledge, that whofo aflcnleth

to the

words of

A folitary

I.

tires

A wither'd hermit, fivefcore winters worn.

Bacon,
rather than a courtier can render.
He had been duke of Savoy, and, after a very glorious reign, took on him the habit of a hermit, and

make

Herewith, adv.

[here

and with.] With

Aidifon on Italy.

retired into this folitary fpot.

children often to tell a dory of any thing they know.

Locke.

;

Might (hake oft'fitly looking in her eye.
Sbakcff,
'You lay this command upon me, to give you my
ror advice for your carriage in fo eminent a place;
humbly return you mine opinion, fuch as an hetmit

Hooker.

Agreeable hereunto might not be amifs to

an anchoret; one who refrom fociety to contemplation and

devotion.

eternal life, doth it in regard of his authority whofe

words they are.

con-

trafled from eremite, i»i);*iVii4.]

To

u/tto.]

this.

'2.

A beadfman
another.

one bound to pray for
Improper.
;

For thofe of old.

this.

You, fair (ir,be notAfl-rtf/.'i difmay'd,
But conftant keep the way in which ye dand. Spenf.
Hernviib the cadlc of Hame was fuddcnly fur-

Hayward.

prifedbjf the Scots.

A fine

He'riot. «./. [jOepejilb, Saxon.]

paid to the lord at the death of a landholder, commonly the beft thing in the
landholder's poffeflion.

And the late dignities heap'd up to them,
Sbakefpeare,
We reft your hermits.
He'rmitage. ». /. [hermitage, French.]
The cell or habitation of a hermit.

By that painful way they pafs
Forth to an hill, that was bolh deep and high ;
On top whereof a facrcd chapel was.
Fairy
And eke a little hermitage thereby.

Q^n,

Go with fpeed
for he (hould be the

This he detains from the ivy ;
true pofrelfory lord thereof, but the olive difpenfeth
with his confcience to pafs it over with a compliHov/el.
ment and an heriot CMtry year.

Though thou conlume but to renew.
Yet love, as lord, doth claim a heiioi due.

Cleavel.

took him up, as your heriot, with intention to
have made (he bed of him, and then have brought
Dryd.
the whole produce of him in a purfe to you.
I

Hi'ritable. adj. [hares, Latin.] A perfon that may inherit whatever may be in-

To fome forlorn and naked hermitage.
Remote from all the pleafures of the world. Sbakefp.

And may at lall my weary age
Find out the peaceful hermitage.
The hairy gown and molfy cell,
Where 1 may fit and rightly fpell
Of ev'iy dar that hcav'n doth (liew.
hriUon,
And ev'ry herb that lips the dew.
About two leagues from Fribouij we went to I'ec a
hermitage: it lies in the prettied folitude imaginable,
Addifon on Italy,
among woods and rocks.

Hale.

[ixava hermit.] A woman retired to devotion.
Hermitical. adj, [hovahermitP] Suitable

He'ritace. »./. [heritage, French.]
1. Inheritance; eftate devolved by fucccf-

He'rmodactyl. n,f, [fp'ju.Siand^a'xli'A®-.]

herited.
By the canon law this Ton ftiall be ligitimate and
i.r//ai/<, according to the laws of England.

Let us our father's heritage divide.

Hubbard.

He conliders that his proper home and heritage is
in another world, and therefore regards the events of
this, with the indifference of a guell that tarries but

R'g'".

a day.
2.

[In divinity.]

He'rmitess. ». y;

to a hermit.

Hermoda^yl is a root of a determinate and regular

fion ; eftate in general.

irretick or fcliilmatick be lufTcred to go into thofc

Bacon.

Quincy.

twid it clofe together.

to this.

One who propagates his private opinions

rally

An Hermet!cal(tn\, or to feat any thing hemetically,

The tube was clofed at one end with diachylon,
Here'tically. adv. [from heretical.]
indead of an bermetical[ci\.
Soy lei
With herefy.
Herme'tically. adv. [from hermetical,}
Hereto', fli/f. [if« and ft.J Tothis; add

in oppofition to the catholick church.
Thele things would be prevented, if no known

.

Mercury, the imaI
fincd inventor of chymiftry ; hermetique,
'rench.j Chymical.

Hooker.
Conllantinople was in an uproar, upon an ignorant

Heremi'ticai.. adj. [It (hould be written

M^tc-if

HERMETIC.

We

Out of this place.

1.

own perlonal perfuafion, heretical,

merly; anciently.

lUretf zotaa it that prince Harry is valiant.

If

as touching his

HERME'TICAL. 7 adj, [from Hermet, or

The people of God.

O Lord, favc thy people, and blcfs thine heritage.
Common Prayer,

HERM A'PHRODITE. n,f [hermaphrodite,
French, from ifuivi and itPfoHr^.] An ani-

mal uniting two fexes.
Man and wife make but one right

and reprcfents the common figure of a heart
from half an inch to an inch in length.
This drug was firll brought into medicinal ufe by the
Arabians, and comes Irom Egypt and Syria, where
the people ufe them, while frclh, as a vomit or purge;
and have a way of loading them for food, which they
figure,

cut in two,

eat in order to make themfclves fat.
arc a gentle purge, now little ufed.

which fee. ]
Birds that are mod eafy to be drawn are the mal-

He'knhill.

Hermaphrodi'tical. adj. [{fomhermafhndite,] Partaking of both fexes.
There may be equivocal feeds and bermafhro-

taining herefy.

ditical principles, that cODUin the radicality of dif-

How exclude tbry us from being any part of the

ferent forms.

Brcu-n.

Hill,

He UN. ». / [Contrafted from Heron,
lard, fwan, hern,

Cleavetand.
Canonical hermafhrodite.
Moiillrofity could not incapacitate from marriage,
Arbuthnet and Pofe.
witncfs hermaphrodites.

The diicd roots

Peacham.

and bittern.

n. f.

[hern aaA

herb.

HE'RNIA, n. f.

('Lat.]

ture, divcrfified oy the

Any

hill,]

An

Ainfworlh.
kind of rup-

name of the part

affected.
IfifcmaD'
A hernia would certainly fucceed.
HE'RO. »./. [biros, Latin if^]
I. A man eminent for bravery.
;

I fine

HER

HER

I fiog of ieroet ind of Icings,

In mighty numbers mighty things,
CcwUy.
Heroes in arimateJ marble frown.
Pc^.
In this view he ccafes to be an hen, and his return is no longer a virtue.
Pofe's OJyffry.
Thefe are thy honours, not that here tliy bull
Is mia'd with icrofct, orwi
kings thy dull. Pofe.
.

A man of the higheft clafs in any re-

z,

fpeft ; as, a hero in learning.

He'roess. ». /. [from hero ; herois, Lat.]

A heroine

;

Not in ufe.

a female hero.

In whicli were held, by fad difeafe,
Henws and hero,Jf,s.

Chafman.
Befittingan
heroick.

Hero'ical adj. [from hert].\
hero; noble; lUuftrious ;
Mufidorus was famous over
cal enterprizes.

all Afia for his heroi-

Sidney.

three miles.

;

Not beroically ia killing his tyrannical coufin.

:

The coaft is plentifully ftored with round (i(h,
pilchard, herring, mackrel, and cod.
Carevj.

it
refers to a fubftantive goin
before : as, this is her houfe, this nou

And panting, lo

Shakefp.

Noble fuitabletoan hero brave ; magnanimous j intrepid; enterpriiing illuf-

Ufed of

Meihinks heniek poefy, 'till now.
Like fome fantaftick fairy land did (how.

HERSE.

Cmuley.

Dryden.

HE«o'icKLY«<fc. [frora;t<'n»/V;f.] Suitably
to an hero.
Heroically is more frequent
and more analogical.

IVoodnvard's Natural llijlary.
z.

fitations.

H EST. »./ [hsfr, Saxon.]
precept; injunftion.
ten behejl.

When mourning nymphs attend their Daphnis'

To a6l herearU;y and abhorr'd commands,
Refufing her grand hefis.

Pof.e.

her ear.

heleroclitum, Latin ;
1.

O, would (lie were bers'd

my foot, and the ducatf in hercoffin.

A

But inborn worth, that fortune can controul,
New-ftrung, and ftiffer bent hcrfol'ter foul
The heroine aiTum'd the woman's place.
Confirm 'd her mind, and fortify'd her face. Dryd.

Crajbenv,

Herself, pronoun.

A

1.

female individual,

as

diHinguilhed

from others.
The jealous o'er-wom widow ycAherfelf,

Then Ihall the Britifl) ftage
More noble charaflen e«pofe to view,

Since that our brother dubb'd them gentlewomen.

And draw her finifli 'd heroines from you.

Addifon.
2.

The qua-

IftheOjyfTey be lefs noble than the Iliad, it it
more inftruftive: the Iliad abounds wilh more
ier^i/m, this with more morality.
Broome.
«./, [heron. Fr.]

HERON.
1. A bird that feeds upon fifh.

noun ; as, ihe hurt hcrfelf.
The

daughter of Pharaoh came

dawn

She returned anfwer to berfi If,

He'rselike.*^'.

Sidney.

The heron, when (he foareth high, (beweth winds.
,

Her own thoughts.
The more (lie looks, the more her fears increafe.
At nearer fight j and (he's her/elf the lefs. Dryden.
3. 'ihe oblique cafe of the reciprocal pro-

berfelf.

So lords, with fport of ftag and heron full.
Sometimes we fee fmall birds from nefts dopull.
,

Are mighty golTips in this monarchy.
Shalie/p.
Being in ber own power; mirtrefs of

Bacon.

2. It IS now commonly pronounced /^f/-».

{herJejsniiUkc.l

"fudges.

fuitahle 10 funerals.
Even in the Old Teftament, if you liften fo David's harp, you (hall hear as many berjjike airs
as
Bacon.

To Hi. RY. 1/. a. [hepian, Saxon, to praife,

Who terror b;ars upon his foaring wing ;
Let them on high the frighted hern furvey,

to celebrate.]
Cay.

touched in the firft learning of the rudiments of the
tongue.
IVaitf.

holy.

To hallow; to regard as

Now no longer in ufe.

2.

Any thing or perfon deviating from the
common rule.

Heterocli'tical. adj. [£tomhelerecltte.]
Deviating from the common rule.
In the mention of (ins bcltroclitical, and fuch as
wanteiiher name or precedent, there is oft times.a
(in, even in their hiftories.
Brown.

He'terodox.

adj.
\helerodoxe, French ;
and io%x.\
Deviating from the
eftabiifhed opinion ; not orthodox.
Partiality may be obferved in fome to vulgar, in
i'rfj®^

others to heterodox tenets.

Locke.

He'terodox. n f. An opinion peculiar.
Not only a fimple heterodox, but a very hard
it will fecm, and of great abfuidity, if we
fay attraflion is unjufHy appropriated imto the loadparadox
ftonc.

liroivn's Vulgar Errourj.

fune- HeterOCe'neal.

real ;

carols.

The tow'ring hawk let fjiure poets fing,

wj(h
Exodus.
to

Clarke,

The helerocliie nouns of the Latin (hould not be

corfe.

female hero. Anciently, according to
Engliih analogy, hemefi.

ij-«(»5 and xAivw.]
Such nouns as vary from the common
forms of declenfion, by any radundancy,

defeft or otherwife.

Sh.ikrfp.

And Arri'i/itbearingit lofleet.
Chapman.
The houfc-is i.rj'.i'aboul with a black wood.
Which oods with many a heavy-headed tree.

Shahrp.

HETEROCLITE. n. f.\heteroditc, Fr.

To

my daughter were dead at my foot, and

Spenfer.

Thou waft a fpirit too delicate

Rojcon.

the jewels in

Obfolete, or writ-

1

Thou doft afflia the not deferver.

On all the line a fudden vengeance waits.
And frequent berfes (hail bclicge your gates.
To H ERSE. -v. a. [from the noun.]
put into an herfe,
would

Stuift.

Command;,

As him that doth thy lovely hefts defpife.

herfe.

Who does not weep that reads the moving verfe ?

MHicn.

want of volubi-

Many deigymen write in fo diminutive a manner,
with fuch frequent blots and interlineations, that
they are hardly able to go on without perpetual he-

The Grecians fpitefully drew from the darts the

A life heroick.

Intermiffion of fpeech;
lity.

to the grave.

at

:

to the capacity o*' each perufcr.

z. The carriage in which coipfes are drawn

I

cannot forefee the difficulties and hefitations of
they will be more or fewer, according

every one

A temporary monument raifed over a

I.

He'»oine.», / [from hero; henJne, Fr.]

All4lolt7 Dumbctsfamt then »iry fray.

;

Alike referv'd to blame or to commend,

hearse.

Like Samfon, and heroickly hath finilh'd

-

low Latin ; fup-

Pofe,

A tim'rous foe, and a fufpicious friend.
Pope,
Hesita'tion. 7i.f. [from hejitate.']
I. Doubt ; uncertainty; difficulty made.

pofed to come from hepian, to praife.]
This is likewife written hearfe ; fee

Kamfonhath quithimlelf

_.,

Heftor's cliallenge.

Rojcommm.

n. f. [her/m,

Aiierbury,
a. {haftto. Latin ; he-

Willing to wound, and yet afraid to (Irike,
Juft hint a fiult, and hcfitaie didike

I

grave.

t have chofen the molt ieroick fubjeft which any
poet could defite : I have taken upon me to dcfcribe
the motives, ihe beginning, progrefs and fucceffcsof
a moA iuft and neceflary war.
Dryden.
An beroitk poem isthegrealeft work which the
foul of man is capable to perform : the defign of it is
to form the mind to heroick virtue by example.

lii'».oiSM. n./. [beroifme, Fr.]
lities or charafter of an hero.

!

Waller.

-v.

//^/-.French.]
To be doubtful ; to delay ; to paufe ; to make difficulty.
A fpirit of revenge makes him curfe the Gieciant
in tlie fcventh book, when they hefitate to accept

the god, the god, Ihe cries ;

the ground.

Waller.

Reciting the afts of heroes.

they believed their own reafonings.

^ ..„,
To HE'SITATE.

With words not hers, and more than human found.
She makes th'obedientghofts peep trembling ihrx) ugh

;

poetry.

Boyle.

Some of them reafoned without doubt or hefiiancy,
and lived and died in fuch a manner as to Ihow that

'

How came her eyes I'o bright ? not with fait tears ;
If fo, my eyes are oftner walh'd than hers.
Shak.

V

into

like in a veffel accurately flopped.

See her.

is hers.

;

3.

fliot

cryftals, eipofed to the air, would not
have done the

when

Whom ill fate would ruin, it prefers j
For all the miferable are made hers.
I fee her rowlingeyes
;

trious.
Not that which juftly give* berolrk name
To perfon, or topoem.
Milion.

The reafon of ray brfiiancy about the air is that
forgot to try whether that liquor, which

Buy my herring frcfh.
Stvifi.
Hers. fron. The female pofleffive ufed

Bolingbroke

Vcrfe makes heri>ii.k virtue live.
But you can life to verfcs give.

A fmall fea ii(h.

Saxon.]

Prodaftive of heroes.

;

bioufnefs ; uncertainty; fufpence.

He'rring. n.f. [^ari»»f, French ; haepins,

From John of Gaunt doth bring Iiis pedigree.
2.

Or fummer (hade, under the cocked hay. Sfert/er,
But were tliy years green as now be mine.
Then would '(I thou learn to carol of love.
And bery with hymns thy lafs'sglove.
Spenfer.
Hesitancy, n. /. ^irom hejttale.] Du-

A

Heio'ick. adj. [from hero; htroijue, Fr.]

Being but the fourth of thai btroick line.

Thenot, now 'tis the time of merrymake.
Nor Pan to bery, nor with love to play
;
Like mirth in May is meeteft for to make,

farther progrefs towards acrimony maketh a
herpes ; and, if the accefs of acrimony be very great
it maketh an herpes excedens.
If'ifeman's Surgery.

Sidney.
Free from all meaning, whether good or bad
;
And in one word Ijtraically mad.
Dryden.

1.

^

Derham'sPhyftca-'Tbeilory.

He'rpes. [»./. «i«ri{,] A cutaneous inflammation of two kinds miliaris, or
pujlularis, which is like millet-feed upon
the ikin ; and excedens, which is more
corrofive and penetrating, fo as to form
little ulcers.
^incy.

Dryd.

HlRo'lCALLY.ff/fc. [from beroical.] Afler
the way of an hero
fuitably to an hero.

A

place where herons breed.
They carry their load to a large heronry above

ry.']

Though you liave courage in an AfrorVa/ degree, I
afcribe it to you as your fecond attribute.

HET

Hk'RONRY.
1 n.f. [itomheroH, coraHe'ronshaw, J monly pronounced <5fra-

«Tif«5 and yi>i!5.]

adj.

\hetcrogene,

Not 01

Fr.

'

ture ; not kindred
Let the body adjacent and ambient be not commaterial, but merely hettrogeneal towards the body
that is to be preferved : fuch are quickfilver and
white .imbcr to herbs and flics.
Bacon.
The light wkofc rays are all alike refrangible, I
call
fioiplc, homogcneal, ;ind fimilar; and that
wfaofo

HEW

H

I

HID

B

One whofe
whofe nj* tit fome more lefrangible than ethcrSi He'whii. h. f. [from *<»tf.]
I call compound, httcrogeat^l, and diQimilar.
employment is to cut wood or (lone.
Nnvten.
At the building of Solomon's temple there were
Heterogene'ity. h. f. [hftertgeHcite
fourfcore thoufand bnveri in the mountains.
Brou-n
French, from heterogtneous.^
diffimilitude of qualities.

lE'XAGON. »./. [hfxagone, French
and yW«.] A figure of fix fides or an-

2. Oppofiteor diflimilar part.

gles : the tnoft capacious of all the figures

Oppofition of nature;

1.

contrariety

or

Ouxiacum, humt iviih an open fire in a chimney,
is fequcftered into aflie^inJ fiMt;

wood, diftilled

into

whereas the fame

a retort, does yield far other

helercgrneilifs, and is refolved into oil, fpirit, vine-

Boy/f.

gar, water and charcoal.

.

HETEROGE'NEOUS.

adj.

[

?r.j.<

I have obferved fuch bfiengr/iKus bodies, which

I

ibund included in the mafs of this fandftone.

HeTERo'sCIANS. » /. \iri(ei and «»».]
Thofe whofe fhadows fall only one way,
as the fhadows of us who live north of
the Tropick fall at noon always to the
North.

1.

As for the figures of cryllal, it is for the moft part

Many of ihcm (hoot into regular figures ; as cryftal
Ray.
and bnllatd diamonds into brxagonal.
Hexa'gony. n. f. [from hexagon.'\

A

figure of fix angles.
Wtien I read in St. Ambrofe of hexagoKies, or
fexanfular cellars of bees, did 1 therefore conclude
Bramb.
that they were mathematicians ?

n.f.
verfe of fix feet.

;

Ihad purpofe
Once more to briu thy target frflhi thy brawn.
Shakefftare.
Or lofe my arm for't.
He was hnun in pieces by Hamilton's friends.

Hexangutar fprigs or (hoots of cryftal.

He'xapod. ». /.

which the greater fort of beetles come ;
o( bcxapods are eaten in America.

for that fort

Hexa'stick.w./. [?5 and s-i';e"<.]

Apoem

lefs

tlian

of fix lines.

Hey. irt/rrj. [Tromhigh.] An expreflion of

Hayv>ard.

joy, or mutual exhortation ; the contrary
to the Latin hei.
Shadwcll from the town retires,
Toblefs the town with peaceful lyiick ;

to cut.

He from deep wells with engines water drew.
And us'd hit noble hands the wood iobevi. Dryd.
with the parX. To cut, as with an axe
up,
ticles dwon, when it fignifies to fell
to excavate from below ; cff, to feparate.
He that depends
;

:

Addi/ort.

To form or Ihape with an axe

:

of frolick and exultation, and
fometimes of wonder.
Thoul't fay anon he is fome kin to thee.

Thou fpend'll fuch bryday
J J wit in piaifing him.
Shakefp.

'Twas a ftranje riddle of a l.idy,
Hudibrafs.
Not love, if any lov'd her, beyday
Hey'day. »./. A frolick ; wildnefs.
At your age
'

The beyday in the blood is tame, it's humble.
Shakefp.
And waitsupon the judgement.
wild frolick, dance.
He'ydegives. n.f.

A

Obfolete.
But friendly fairies met with manygraces.

And light-fool nymphs can chafe the ling'ring night
With beydegives, and trimly trodden traces. Sperff.

of gaping.
Men obferving the continual blation, or holding
open the camclion's mouth, conceive the

mj days, sot ftudious nor idle, rather

foliibing sld works than bcwing out mvi.

Feft It Swift.

intention

thereof to receive the aliment of air ; but this is alfo
tiroivn.
occafioned by the greatnefsof the lungs.

Hia'tus. n.f. [>ii/a/«», Latin.J
1.

has a long valley that fccms bfwx tut on purpofe to
give its waters a paffage amidll fo many rocks.
Addijan on Italy.

To

The art

Hia'tion. »./. [from bio, Lat.]

Thou haft hevfedl\itt out a fcpulchre here, as he
J/, xxii.
thjt heaved, him out a fcpulchre on high.
Nor is it fo proper to brw out religious rclbrma-

form laborioufly.
5.
The gate was adamant { eternal frame ;
Which bfw'd by Mars himfclf, from Indian quarries came,
Drydin't FaUri.
Thelabour of agod.
Next unto biickt are preferr'd the fquwe biwn
Mori.
ftonc.

<:

'

with out.

tions by the fword, as to polilh them by fair and
K. Cb.
equal difputatiuns.
This river rifes in the very heart of the Alps, and

An ex-

preflion

Upon your favours, fwims with fins of lead.
Shakefp,
And ;6ra/i </<«>» oaks with rulhes.
Brave followers, yonder Aands the thorny wood.
Which, by the heav'ns ainilance and your lliength,
Muft by the roots be brum up yet ere night.
Shakefpeart.
Scarce can T fpeak, my choler is fo great
Oh ! I could btw up rocks, and fight with flint.
Shakefp.
Yet (hall the axe of juftice ,6ru>him dciun.
Sandyt.
And level with the root his lofty crown.
He from the mountain beiving timber tall.
Mi'/itm,
Began tobuildaveffclofhugebulk.
We*ll force the gate wheie Marcus keeps hisguard.
that
oppofe
our
paHTage.
would
And bnu doxvn aU

Prior.

Then biy forpraife and panegyrick.
He y'u AY. ;«/«/'. [for A;j;A-</<y.]

;

I now pafs

Ray.

An aperture

a gaping breach.
;
Thofe biatLt'tire at ihe bottom of the fea, whereby the abyfs below opens into and communicates
with it.

2.

H^ood-icard.

The opening of the mouth by the fucceflion of an initial to a final vowel.
The biatui (hould be avoided with more care in
poetry than in oratory ; and I would try to prevent
it, unlefi where the cutting it o(f is more prejudiiial
r<,pe.
to the found than the biatm itfelf.

Hibe'rnal. adj. [kibernus, Lat.] Belonging to the Winter. ^
Thisftat (hould lathertnanifcft \a wanningpowcr

Brou'H.

fun in its hibernal converfion.

HICCIUS DOCCIUS n. f. [Corrupted, I
fancy, from hk eft do Hut, this, or here is
ITed by jugglers of
the learned man.
themfelves.] A cant word for a juggler;

one that pl:iys fall .nnd loofe.
An old dull (('t, who told the clock
For many years at Briilewcll dock.
At Wcftmir.ftcrand Hid t's hall.
And biccius do^ciui play'd in all

Where, in all governments and tirae',

H' had been boili friend and foe ro crimes.
n.

f.

[hicken,

IluJii.

A

D.inifh.]

convulfionof the (lorr.ach producing fobs.
Soby anahbey'»(keIcton of late
I

heard an cchofupercrogate

Through impcifcilion, and the voice reftore.

As if Ihe had the bicctugb o'er and o'er.
Cleavel.
Sneezing cureth the ^/V^0«^^, and is proht.nble
Bro^un^s Vulgar Err.
unto women in hard labour.
If the liomach be hurt, fingultus or biciougb follows,
lyifeman.

To Hi'ccough. 'V. n. [from the noun.]
To fob wiihcon\ ulfion of the ftomach.
To Hi'cKUH. f. ». [corrupted from ^Vcough.'] To fob with a convulfed ftomach.
Quoth he, to bid me not to love.
Is to foibid my pulfe to move.

My beard to grow, my cars to prick up.
Or, when I 'm in a fit, to bickup.
Hudibrafs.

An ani- Hl'CKWALL. I

[it and »«J'««.J

m.il with fix feet.
take thofc fo have been the bexapodt, from
I

that many
half his hurls,

One Vane was fo grievoully brum,

4.

DryJ'".

heroick.

Having fix comers.

liayward.

;

A

^^

Sfenfer.

To chop

/^irfsr.]

IVoodivard.

Upon the joint the lucky ftecl did light.
And made fuch way that bcw'd it ijuiie in twain.

2.

and

Hexa'ngu LAR. adj. [«| and anguJus,LM..']

Dutch,]

to hack.

Ihoufands have died of
whereof he was cured.

[«1

The Latin A«a«nrt<T has more feet than the Englilh

To cut by blows with an edged inftrument

^> o !*"'•

bex agonal, or fix-cornered

Hexa'meteR.

Winter when it remains conjoined with th«

HicCo'ucH.

ving fix fides or corners.

HEW. :;. a. part, hnvti, or hpwed.

[|}ea])an, Saxon ; hauiven,

i'J

;

and

iimilar in nature.

;

that can be addcii to each other without
any intcrtlice and therefore the cells in
honey-combs are of that form.
Hexa'conal adj. [from htrxagon.^ Ha-

Not kindred ; oppofiie or dif-

yi'«<.]

7«

f

in the

Hi'cKWAY.

/•

}'•/•

A
J
^^''^I

J- r
I
^"•f'^or'l''

•

Thus fame OiaH be atchicv'd, renown on earth ;

Ani whatmofl merits fame, in (ilcnce '6/</. MiltoHm
Oi\\tx bidden caufe
Left them fuperior,
MHtan*
N.iture and narure'slaws Uy bid tonight
Cod faid, Let Newtocibe, and all was light.
Popf,
Hii rcafons arc as two grains of wheat bid in two
buthels of chaff.
iiixzk'fp. Meicbant ofVenice*
Nile hears him knocking at his fev'nfold gatesi

And leeks his bidden fprJng, and fears his nephew?
Dvydfn,

fates.

Thus the fire of gods and men below
What I have biddetiy hope aot tliou to know. Dryd,
The fcv'ral parts lay bidden in the piece ;
:

Th' occafion but cxencd that, or this.

Dryd,

Seas hid wnh navies, chat lots paiTmgo'er
The channel, on a bridge from fhore to (hore. D^yd,
With what allonifhment and veneration may we
look into our own fouls, where there arc fuch bid"
den itorc; of virtue and knowledge, fuch inczhaulied
fources of pcrfettion ?
Addi/om,

To HIDE. 'V. a, preter; hid

part. paff. hid
\
To conceal
ox hidden, [))iban, Saxon, j
to withold or withdraw from fight or

knowledge.
Avaunc, and quit my
thee

fight ; let (he eat^h

kidt

ShaJte/p,

!

Then for my corps a homely gra\*e provide.
Which love and mc from public kfcorn may bidf,

|

Drydffr,

The crafty being makes

much longer voyage
than Ul^lTes, puts in pradlice many mc^e wiles, and
a

bides himfelfundera greater variety of Ihapes.

Addi/QH.
Hell trembles at the fight, and hides its head
In utmofl darknefs, while on earth e.ich heart
Rcwe*! Royal Con^'ert,
Is hll'd with peace.

To Hide-

o;.

n-

To \yc hid; to be coa-

cealecL

A fox, hard run» begged of a countryman to help
L* Efirange*
him to fome bidi*tg pUcc
Our bolder talents in full view difplay'd ;
Your virtues open faircft in the (hade
:

Bied to difguifc, in publick 'tis you bide^
Where nnoc dii^lnguifh 'twixt your Ihamc and pridr,
Wcakncls or delicacy.
Pofe.

Hide and Seek, n^J, A play in which fome
hide themfelves, and another feeks them.

The

/?

H

I

D

H IE

The

boys and girls would venture to come and
play at bijr ar.Jferk in my hair.
Gulliver's Trav.

I .

Hide. »./. [jJySe, Saxon; haude Dutch.]
The (kin of any animal, either raw or

1.

con(e<ju«nrfy if Jj againft all the rules
o( ilcrogly/,6
to aflign any animals as patrons
of pm ch
Sw//i.

To haften

; to go in haile.
When they had maik'dthe changed fkies.

dreffed.

They wjit their hour was Ipent; then each to reft
him A;>j.
Fuiry ^ueen.

The trembling n-e*«on pad
Through nine bull^iVn, each under other plac'd

That piefciUly yon hie you home to bed.

On his broad Ihicld.

How could

'it

And fo beftow thcA; papers as you bade me.
Some 10 the Oioies do fly.
Some to the words, or whither fear advis'd

Ptfpe,

thou drain the life-blood of the child ?
Shakf/j,.

His mantle, now his bide, with rugged hairs
Cleavcsto his back ; a familhedface he bears.
Dryden.
certain quantity of land. [Hide.hyde,
3.

A

the reciprocal jironoun.

that you cannot with your hand pull up
or loofen the one from the other. It
fomctiraes comes by poverty and bad
keeping ; at other times from over-

A lentil rank in the heavenly A/Vraiciy.

Ho.-rihle; dreadful; Ihocking.
could liave turned himfclt' to as mcny forms
form (hould have been made ^/.

Each in his bi.ratcLy, t le orders bright

Millot.
,.

.'

Sfenfer.

IW.iioviLy. adv. [from W<s«/.]
ribly ; dreadtuily ;

in

a

While the old

Arbmbnot.

Higgledy-piggledy. o<fo. A cant word,
corrupted from higgle, which denotes any
contufed mafs, as higglers carry a huddle

of provifions together.

H 'c c L E R ». /. [from higgle.]
1

.

fells

.

Long ujjwards

;

rifing

above from the

furface, or from the centre;
oppofcd ta
deep, or long drnx-niuard.
Their .•\r.dcs, or momtaiiis, were far higher
than
tho.ewithusj whereby the remnants of the
Eer.cintioi! of

men were, in fuch a particular deluge, faved.

—L
,
c
The f
higher pirts of

Baeon.

'

fpendiiig, and

the

.

the earth being continualiy

lower continually gaining, they

mult ot iitceliity at length come to an ecjuality.

This bitroglyphuk of tlie Egyptians was
ercflcd
parental

attedioii, manilctlcU

ol her joung ones, when

in the protcaion

her iiell was fet on fire.
ISro-wn'i fulgar Errours.

A lamp amongft the Egyptians

aim myfclf
To welcome the condition of the lime j
Which caoiiiit look more bidecujly on me,
'i hen I have drawn it in my lantafy.
Shakiffeare.
This in the prefi:nt applKaiion, is bidmnjly aja-

„^

is the

-ieryfrUphick

ffiliin.-s iMdulus.

°^!l''The Btft wriung man ufed was only the finglc
piiluies and gravings of the things they
wjuld re.
prclent, which w:iy of exprelTion v/as

afterwards
calkd Ueroilyphick.
tP-ood-ward.
Between Uie ftaiues obclifks wereplac'u,
And the learn 'd walls with hirrogly^biikt^fit'i.

6ne; but ihc fciife is intelligible. Collitr'i Urftr.ce
Hi'deousnkss. *. /. [from hide<,us.'\ Horriblencfs ; dreadfulncfs : tcrrour.
:.

7 he art of writing in pidlure.
No brute cat) endure the Ulfc of ftrong tiiiiior, and

One who

provifions by retail.

HIGH. adj. [hcah, Saxon; hoogh, Dutch.]
I

that

fJudibras.

door.
This feems the original meaning, fuch provifions being cut
into fmall
quantities.

> „. /. [hieroJ/Zt]
HIEROGLY'l'HICK. I French; /^«,
facred, and y^jipu, to carve]
I. An emblem ; a figure by which
a word
was implied. Hieroglyph ickt wtre ufed
before the alphabet was invented.
li,eroilyph fcems to be the proper fubflantivi: and hieroglyphick thcadjeftirc.

iior-

He that

'>""'=•

with thy friend about fuch
Does this become the genero(ity
of

To go felling provifions from door to

2.

SyUih.

HIKROGLY'PH.

i

biJcs.

it

to (lay the f.icri-

Confiderwhat I have written, from regard lor
the church eiUblilhed under the hierarchy ot bilhops.

Ihoc'vS.

Hi'der.w./. [from the vcib.j

Levitical hierarchy continued,

fict

for

inaiincr

",' "P"'''"'
"^^u"'
!l'''u'"''l''.'
Why all
this higgling

a piltry fum?

Hoviel.

was part of the mmillcrial office

Hala '

Bafe Ihou art

To higgle thus for a few blows,

the noble and rich John Bull.

FcclelialUcal eilablifiiment.
The pielbytery had mire (Vmpathy with the difcipliue of Scotland ihau the hicarcby ol
England.

M

hanger of duminiun

in the amends.

Sandys.

Millar,.

etymo-

:

Donne

:.

Her eye< giew ftiffin'd, and with fulphur burn
Her hideous loo'ics and hcHilh form return \
Her curling fnakes withhiifings hll the flace,

/i^//

[of. uncertain

In good offices and due retributions
we may not
be pinching and niggardly
it argues an ignoble
mind, where we have wronged, to higgle
and dodee

.1

!

n.

'V.

logy, probably corrupted from haggle.]
To cha(fer ; to be penurious in a bargain.

I.

m

Soire monfter in thy thoughts,
'Joo bide(,iii to be (hewn.
Sbakrfp. Oibelle,
1 rtcd, and cry'd out death
Hell trembled at the hideous name and ftgh'd
From all her caves, and back rtfouudcd, death.

1/1

To HIGGLE

the highelt taint
the celeftial hie,
erarchy, began to
be fo importuned, th.,t
great part of the dniae liturgy was aUdielTcd folely lo her.

Sidney.

O hid",

Herein the wantonnefs of poets, and
the crafts of
and hierofbants, abundantly

gratified the fancies of the people.

Jehovah, from the fuinmit of the (ky,
Ei.v ran'd wiih his winged hierarchy,
Th; world furvey'J.
Thcfe the (upreme king
Exalted tofich pow'r, and gave to rule.

hie.

their heathetiifh pricils

The blelTeJcil ot mortal wights, no* quellionlcfs

Proteiii, every

[from

HlERO'GRAPHY. „./. [Ifllf and
vg»<f>«.'\
Holy writing.
Hie'rophant. «. /. [!if6<pu,T<K.]
One
who teaches rules of religion; a prieft.

throats ;
Which, il they did not die, might f,:em to be

HI'DE()US. adj. [hideux, Fr.]

ufcd by Spcn('cr in a Itnle not
now retained ; dctenable

hi.

In b rds, heav'n's thoiilfcrs, or^anick

Ainjivorth.

is

;

The gentle Gabiiel call'd he from the reft. Fairfax.
He rounds the air, and breaks the hymnick notes

Harih ; untraAable.
And rtill the harihcr and bidebounder
The damfcis prove, become the fonder, iludibrai.
4- Niggardly ; penurious ; parfimonioas.

3. It

Cra/haiv

and if^i

nation of holy beings.
Out of the A/fijrr//;>j of angels (heen.

3.

t1\:ijtvard's ,Vj|, llif.rjy.

[;',f(^

adv.

roglypkical]
Emblematically,
Others have fpoken emblematically
and hiero.
glypb.cally as the Egyptians,
and the phtrnij wa»
the hieroglyphick of the fun.
Bro-wn.

A facred government; rank or fubordi-

I.

keep open without fomcwhatpul into it.
Bacoit.
L;kc ttinted bidebcund trees, thatjult have got
Suflicicni fjp at once to bear and lot.
ifwifi.

roar with a molt hideous and amazing ttoife.

HiEROGLY'rHICALLY.

Hi'ERAacHY. «./. [hierarchie. French.]

Earner's Did.
2. In trees.] Being in the (late in which the
bark will not give way to the growth.
A toot of a tree may be hiitliound, but it will not

Tis lofced through the hiatules at the bottom of
the fca with fuch \eheii.ence, that it (usil.e fta
it.to the mod lu>rriblc Uifordt-r, iriakirg it rage and

Broiun'i Vulgar Errours.

now almoft

vernment.

riding, or afurfeit.

Aiid open
the lories ol her tace.
Dryden.
2. It is commonly ufed of rifible objetts :
the folIoN^ing ufe islcftauthjrifed.

Ikin.
CleaveUnd.
ot the conceit was probably
i/<,».
•.•^\^^c:<n
afrer became mythological,
and.
by a procefs of tradition, Hole
into a tolal verity!
which was but partly true in its morality.
1 lie original

trarjue, Fr.j 'Ihe chief of a facred order.
Angels, by imperial fummoiis call d.
Forthwith from all theendsof heav'nappear'd,
Under their bieraichs in orders bright.
Milion
Hukk'kchic.kl. adj. [h.erarchique, Fr.j
Belonging to facred or ecclefialUcal go-

his ribs and back,

deom.

Firit call thy hieroglyphick

glyphcal,

j

A horfc is faid to be ^/(/cissWwhen his

as

It is

Cruel Aufter thither i/Vhim.

Hl'KR.-iRCH. «.y.

Hidebou'nd. adj. [hideTtnA bound.']

1' he

And, ftripp'd, returns into his prime
\tmy affettion, thou would'll win, ;

obfolete in all its ufes.
Aiiltejfpy'd him

had been before of every hide of land
ujthin the precincts of hi> ceoqueli, and bow ihcy
were holdcn.
Ifntsii.

Ikin (licks fo hard to

ing beyond what immediately appears.
Th' Egyptian ferpent figures time,

;

It

2.

fition than

1.

Shak.

The youth, rtturniiig to liii milhcfs, bi^s. Dryd.
was anciently ufed with or without

\

Charged with hieroglyphical fculpture,

ft»'«'y ii^rog/yphical obein ^^'^!'','*"'^^"'''»
li*
of Theban marble.
San^s's Travel..
2. iimblematical ; expreffivc of fome
meaix-

But running from, all to deftruiaion hie.
Daniel.
The Inake no fooncr hirt.
But virtue hcar'd it, anil a*ay (he hy'd.
Crajha-ui.
Thither, full iVaught with miiVhievous revenge,
Acoirs'd, and in a curled hour, he hies.
Milton.
Thus he advis'd me, on yon aged tree
Hang up ihy lute, and hie ihce tn the fea. tyuller.

'.

French ; hida, barbarous I^tin, as much
as one plough can till.]
Ainfiuorth.
One of the fartl things wjs a more particular inqui-

noun.
1.

Sbakefp.
-"^

Well, 1 will *,>,

Pifiltratus was (irll tografp their hands.

Oh, tyger's heart, wrapt in a woman's hide

Hierogly'phical. /od/.
\adi. \hieroglyphiqHe,
(Hero
Hierogly'phick J French; from the

My will is even this.

Dryden,

And fprcad iott hidct upon the yellow lands,
2. The liuman ikin : in contempt.

I.

HI G

To Hie. i-. n. [jjiegan. Saxon.]

Butnel'slbeory.
2.

Elevated in place ; raifed aloft: oppofed
to /ttr.
'Ihcy that ftand high have

many blalls to (hake

them.
Anil if they tall they dafh themlelvcs to pieces.
•*'*'"«• Hic/.'ard III.
^. ,
^
High o'er their
heads a mould'nng rock upljc'd.
That promifes a fall, and ihakes ale v'ry Wall. Z/iju^.
,

Reafon elcvaics our thoughts as high as the ftars,
and leads us thniugh the vjll fpaces of this migbiy
fabrick ; jet it comes far IhoU o/the real eiient
of
even corpoiial being.

JLockr.

3. Exalted in nature.

The hightjl faculty of the foul.

Baxhr.
4, Elevated

4. Elevated in rank,, or

I

condition :

%*

as,

riA and poor.
wooes both bigi and low, both

^He

I

1

little : as,
10. Capiul; great; opjpofed to
high trcafon, in oppoUtion to peiij.
High. w. /. High place; elevation; fu-

SoaKeJffare*

periour region : only ufedwith^/oai and

know
O mortals! blind in fatf, whothenever
Drjitloi.
low.

Which when the king of Gods beheld from bigh,

To bear t!gb fortune, or endure

c. Exalted in fentiment.
Solomon liv'd at eafe, nor aim'd beyond
Higirr defign than to enjoy his ftate.

6. Difficult ; abftfufe.

They meet to hear, and anfwer fuch
'

Milton.

His forces, after all the i/^* difcourfes,
foot.
really but to eighteen hundreti

would

*''^''*'|J|'i,^^„„

Applied

; loud.1 1 . Violent ; tempeftuous

Spiders cannot weave their

nets

m a b,gb wind.

In its full fury.

Tumultuous;

,

"P
Add.fon i taio.

,

Of noble extraiiiou.

High-seasoned.

1

Let higb-fighied tyranny range on,
'Till each man drop by lottery.

know him by his ftride.

2.

Or eiercile their

time ; now
\x. Full; complete: applied to
ufed only in curfory fpeech.
Higb time now 'gan it wax for Una f.v.r,
tairy^.
of thofe her captive parents dear,

wuh you ?
Sweet warriour, when (hall I have peace
Higb time it is this war now ended were. Sftnjtr.
for it was now ceitaui
It was bigb time to do fo,

flefti

I

J 7.

_

fe«n

18. Dear; exorbitant in price.

know
If they muft be good at lo high a rale, they
*<""«•
they »ay be faie at a chcajwr.

difcipline

and find that cold water does them

Locke.

no harm.

Hichl'ander. n.f. [from highland.'] An
inhabitant of mountains ; mountaineer.
AddiJM.
His cabinet council of higklanJers,

(he may alfo be a Papift at
and it is not improbable
iilll/t.
h

High-flown, fli^". [high and fnva, from Hi'ghly. a^Z-v. [from %/'.]

With elevation as to place and fituation j

1

Elevated; proud.

1.

aloft.

•

This llift' neck'd pride nor art nor force can bend.
|

Turgid; extravagant.

2.

This fable is a bigb-Jcvjn hyperbole upon the miVEjirange.
.

'

Extravagant in claims or

the fame confideraAlterbury.

tions.

ambitioufly.
3. Proudly; arrogantly;

opinions.
Clip the wings

,

,

„

What thou wouldft bigblf.

-,

That thou would'ft holily ; would'ftnot play

Of their i;g/j-/)'"''iarbitrary kings. Dryden iVvrgtI.

And yet wouldft wrongly win.

HlGH-HEAPED. adj.
I.

which
Whatever expedients can allay thofe heats,
cannot but be ufeful
break us into different faftioos,
highly tend toitsfafety.yli/J'/"'.
to the publick, and
for us to enliven
It cannot but b: highly Fe<iuifite
our faith, by dwelling often on

ferics of marriage.

High-flying.

In a great degree.

2.

Nor high-jfiown hopes to Reafon's lute defcend.
Denham,

Far advanced into antiquity.
The nominal obfervation of the feveral days of

the ancient
the week is very higb, and as old as
to the
BCTPtians, who named the fame according
B"'^''planets.

One that carries his

opinions to extravagance.
ihe openly proielTeth herfelf to he i high-fier

;

cattle ftiould be gathered.

Beholds her father's fteeds beneath her own ;
The highlands fmoak'd, cleft by the piercing rays.
Aadifon,
ufe this
Ladies in the highlands of Scotland
Winter,
to their children in the midft of

lecatombs of bulls to Ne( tune (lain,
monarch of the main. Fope.

Uleh- flaming, pleafethe
HiGH-Fi.iER. «./•

bigb
Abbot.

time that the
Crw.xxix. 7.

tainous region.
The wand'ringmoon

Throwing the flame to

a great height,

They are forced to take their courfe either

it

Pope,

and mettle, would itiU be bragging of his family.
L'EJIrange.

High-fla'ming.

Advancing in latitude from the line.

forej,oing expref-

fimfhed;

A favourite mule, high-fed, and in the pride of Hi'cHLAND. »./. [high ixiA land,'] Moun-

%A

fion, high time.
is
It is yet high day, neither

Accurately

nobly laboured.
Thou triumph'ft viflor of the high--urmight day.
And the pleas'd dame, foft fmiling lead'ft away.

Dryden.

andfpices are fetch'd from the Indies.
tUrb
' fauces
Baker.

whence probably the

I

Hi'gh-fed. Pampered.

about them.
Clarendon,

:

H 'cH- WROUGHT.

His warlike mind, his foul devoid of fear,
His high.dtfigning thoughts were figured there.

degree: 2.% high
14. Rais'd to any great
pleafure; high luxury; a high performance ; a hi^ colour.
Solomon liv'd at eafe, and full
M,Um.
fare.
Ofhonour, wealth,

_

Will o'er (ome high-vic' J city hang his poifon
Shakeffeare.
In the fick air.

with i/gi-«/o»«<' urine, and fpots in the Ikin.
Ftoyer.

High-designing. Having great fcheraes.

march towards
that forces were already upon their
Clarendon.
,
the Weft.

At the moft perfed ftate in the menas, by the fun it is high noon
dian

Be as a planetary plague, when Jove

A lever in a rancid oily blood produces a fcorbutic

_

To think

South.
to the North, or low to ihe

And poifon in high-lajled meats conveys. Deni.'jm:
Enormoufly wicked.

HiGH-vi'cED.

colour.
fever,

Guftful ; piquant.

Flattery ftill in fugat'd words betrays.

High-co'loureD. Havingadeeporglaring

(hook lore

It was bigb time for the lords to look

High-ta'sted.

Creech.

^f'""'Their inward ftate of mind.
(how,
Can heav'nly minds fuch high refenunent
>
Uryden.
fpite in human woe

Obftinate ; lofty.

High-Jloinached ate they both, and full of ire ;
Shake/.
In rage, deaf as the fea, hafty as lire.

In dreadful wars

.

Rain'd at their eyes,
Begantorife; %Apaffions, anger^

16.

High-stomached.

Covered with lofty buildings.
The high-built elephant his caftle rears.
Looks down on man below, and fttikes tlie ftars.

but high winds wotfe within,

Shaleffeare,

High-spi'rited. Bold; daring; infolent.

The giant Harapha of Gath ; his look
Haughty as is his pile, bigh-budt and proud. Milton.

ungovern-

Not only tears

I c.

Locke,

Hich-si ghted. Always looking upwards.

Of lofty ftrufture.

able.

Miftruft, fufpicion, difcord, hate,

Piquant tothepalate.
Be (paring alfo of fait in the feafoning of all his
visuals, and ufe him not lo bigb-feajoned mtiM.

Hi'gh-built. adj.

it

turbulent;

Oil of turpentine, though clear as water, being
upon the purely white fugar ot lead, hat
Boylf.
in a (hort time aftijrdcd a^/^i-rt-i/ tinflure.

digefted

Caft round your eyes
Upon the bigh-born beauties of the court
«<>Vf.
Tliere chufe lome worthy partnetof your heart.

1

Be it yfur care, my friends, to keep
12.

are lort. Denh.

Extravagant in no-

tions of politicks.
Thisfcemstobe the political creed of all tlie higb.
S-wi/t,
principled men I have met with.
High-red. Deeply red.

Of a rude

the ftotm blows
length the winds ae rais'd,

At

High-principled.

have ventur'd.

Hi'gh-born.

to the wind.
coaft.
More (hips in calms on a deceitful

Or unfeen rocks, than in hgb ftorms

thou lUndeft by faith : be not high-minded, but tear.
Rom. xi. 20.

Like little wanton boys that fwim on bladders,
Thcfc many Summers on a fea of glory ;
pride
But far beyond my depth: my iijA-i^w»
At length broke under me, and now has lell roc,
Weary, and old with fetvice, to the mercy
Shak
llream, that muft for ever hide me.

have attacked
had thought wearinets durft not
though it difcolourj the

1

fo bls-b blood-lt doth me,
compleftion of my greatncfs to

But I »illchattifc this high-minded rtrumpet. Shak.
Becaufe of unbelief they were broken off, and

much inflated.

Noble; illuftrious.
Trull me, 1 am exceeding weary.

.

Proud; arrogant.
My breaft I'll burft with ftraming of my courage.

Of God higb-iUJi, or to incline his will,
Milmi.
Haid to belief may feem.
.
Hi'gh-blown. Swelled much with wind;
1

G"' lb-

abundance.

High mi'nded.

But that from us ought Ihould afcend to Heav'n,
So prevalent, as to concern the mind

h-gb hand,
When there appeareih on either Gde a taken, and
»dva"tages
violent profecution, cunning
judge feen. Bacon.
combinaiion, then is the virtue of a

^_'.\^-

He fails not in thefe to keep aftifTtein on a high
mettled Pegafus j and lakes care not to furfeit hitn
as he has done on other heads, by an erroneoui

Supremely happy.
The good which we enjoy from heav'n delccnds;

Clarendon.

his cliceks were g!owing red.

Hich-me'ttled. Prondorardcntof fpirit.

in compofition wuh

much ufed

Hung aloft.

By the ligh-hung taper's light,
I could difcern

variety of meaning.

Q. Severe ; oppreflive.

JO.

is

S-ttift.

She'lhall be ciught as in a noofe.

High-hung.

Hjgh-blest. aaj.

8. Arrogant ; proud ; lofty.
w.th his b-gh
The governor made himfeU merry
fent
'""i «°'^^'
and threatening language, and
neither give nor receive quarter.

(hoe much raifed.
By thele embroiJer'd bigb-heeVJ (hoes,

Wide is the fronting gate, and tailed on btgb.
Dryden
With adamantine columns threats the iky.

High

amounted

r

f^fe.

Having the heel of tUc

High heeled.

regions.

things.

Clarendon.

1 faw myfclf the vaft unnumber'd ftore
Ofbrafs, high-beaf'd im\i&ihe regal dr.me.

Aloft; above; into fupcnour

0«HiGK.

•

.

.

G

I

Raifed into high plies.

Z.

^''"^'""

Hefigh"''-

M

7. Boaftful; oftentatious.

^

H

H G

fl I G

4.

Covered with high piles.
catesdivine.
The plenteous boatd high-heafdfiixh
/"»/*.
And o'er the foaming bowl the laughing wjnc.

Wiihefteem; witheftimation.
Every

ot

man that is among vou, not to think
toihink. Rom.m,

himfelf more highly than heoujlit
1

3

falfe.

Shakrjp,

_

High MOST.

H

HI L
irregular

[an
Higheft; topmoft.

Hi'cHMOST.

adj.

rank ; or a term of reproach abbreviated
from hindeiling, degenerate. Hugha.]
.
A forry, paltry, cowardly fellow.
He was fome hiUiiig fellow, that had ftol'n
Shalirfptarc.
1 he horfe he rode on.
me
If your lonlfhip find hira not a hiljlng, h)ld

word.]

Now is the fun upon the bighmoj} hiil^
Sbaktffeare.

Of this day's journey.

Highness. «./. [froin%*.]
Elevation above t^

1.

furface; aliitude;

;

anciently of kings.

How long in vain hath nature ItrivM to frame

A perfeQ princefs, ere her i/jAw/i camt ?

Shahff.
Helen and Hero, bildiiigs and harlots.
This idle tov, thu bi.'dixg fcorns my power,

// alltr.

ISeautv and greatncfs are eminenily joincj

in your

My

xxii-

:

was called.
Sfcnftr.

For c»>wing loud, the noble Clianliclcer j
Dryd.n'i Suti'x Prkft.
So kl^bi her cock.

fometimes ufed as a participle
called ; named.

paflive :

Hi'llock. »./. [from hi'.l.\

that lie fcattercd about the bottom of it, it the whole
circuit of thefe dominions.

Hi'lly.

They ha« a wiy of draining lands that lie below
the bigb-waUr, ts\i are fomething above the lowwater mark.
»./. [higf^ and luo)/.]

So few there be

very yet Aborigines, tluuft

Latin.]

among aa

1 could mention

Did love as li fc.

He views his herds in vales afiir.

'

Addijon.

Svtl/l.

Hilt. »./. [hilr, Saxon, from healban, to
hold.]
The handle of any thing, parti-

with ap-

cularly of a fword.

,-

With crowns imperial; crowns and coroaets, Sbak.
Take thou the hilt.
And when my face is covcr'd as 'tis now,

A robbei that plunders on the publicK

Guide thou the fwotd. Sbakeffeare' tfuliusCicfar.
Be his this fword, whofe blade of bul's difplays
A ruddy gieam ; whole hill, a filver blaze. Fope.

roads.
'Tit like the friendlhip of pickpockets and big.
tiuiymrit, that obfetve ftrifl juftice among themfelvr?.
blr:tley.

A

remedy like that of giving my money (o an
bigb-w.iymar, beibrche attempts to take it by force,
SnH/i,
to prevent the fin of robbery.

Hi'cLAfEU. »./. An herlv ,'

Jinftuorth.

HIM.

[him, Saxon.]
The oblique cafe of he.

1

Grit. xli.
^

_

Kim was anci«ntly ufed for it in a natural
fenfc.

JIila'rity. »./. [hikritat, Latin.] Merriment; gaiety.

The fubjunflive mood halb evermore fome conjunftion joined with /6/'rr,

Accidence,

Averroes rcltxaincd his hiUrlly, and made no
more thereof than Seneca commendcth, and was

HiMSt'LF. prm. [him znd/el/.]

allowable in Cato { that if, a fober incalefcence for

J.

wine.

HiLD, in £/>7Vit'f grammar, is interpreted a

individual perfonality.

lord or lady ; fo iitUebert is a noble lord ;
Matbild, an haoick lady.
Gtbjon.

Hi'ldino.
lord

:

w.

/

It
is far

fhild,

hllle lord'm contempt,

was a fparing fpecch of the ancients to fay,

that a

Saxon, fignifies a

liieiid

is

anoiner biufelf;

more than bimfelf,

for that a friend

Baeon.

With (hame rcmrmben, while btpiflfvin one

perhnps hilding means originally a

Of the fame herd, biajrlfiht fame liad done.

for a man that lias

Dcnhant.

<.nly the delicacy or bad qualities of high

Vol..

In the nominative the fame as he, only

more emphatical, and moife expreffive of

Brrnvn.

2. It it

i.
\

added to

a

forth

by his miftrefs, to carry me in the name of

foul cloaths to Datchet-lane.

Shaktfpeare.

[hineman, Saxon.] Apeafant; a boor;

3.

a mean ruftick.
1'he Dutch, who came like greedy /6fWi before,

AiidlTieelBof lighl'ningblart the ftanding field. ZJyy,
He cioth'd himfelf in courfe array.

Dryden^s Fables,
A lab'ring hind in ihcw.
Hindbe'rries. n. f. The fame as rafpberrics.

To

HINDER, f. a. [hmbjiian, Saxon.]
To obftruft to ftop to let; to impede.
;

Me he reftottd unto my office, and b'.m he hanged.
2.

A fervant.

A couple of Ford's knaves, his binds, were called

To reap the harveft their ripe years did yield.
Now look like thofe, when rolling thunders roar,

Now fits expedaliou in the air,

Child en Trade.

[hine, Saxon.]

2.

'

Aud liides a fword from hilt unto the point.

Hi'cHWAYMAN. II. /. \J.'igmvaj and man.'\

Fairy Siueen,

Can'ft thou mark when the hinds do calve ? Jab.
Nor Hercules more lands or labours knew.
Not though the brazen-footed bind he flew. Dryden,

Dryden.

Lol how the Norrick plaint
Riie bSOf, with large piles of llaughter'il knights.

more trades we have loft, and are

in the A/^A^aji to lofe.

A gentle bind, the which the lovely boy

Hmucl,

Fhillifs.

Figuratively a train of aftion,
*
parent confequence.

How he flew, with glancing dart amifs,

alfcmbly of

Hilly countries afford the moft entertaining profpe^s, though a man would choofe to travel through a
plain one.
Addifon

He t>rove to piclt up all he found.

The (he to a (lag, the female of red deer.

1

Glimbinj to a billy ftetp,

Where power and lilies Icaiter'd hy.

.

Hind. n. f. [hmbe, Saxon, from hinnus,

who made the .i^^^w.'j', and of Fabius

the dictator.
Ent'ring on a broad high-way,

X

Full of hills;

Two inlcriptionsgave a great light to tlie hiltones
af Appius,

The flag

Addifon on Italy,

mountain*.

.

All keep the broad bigh-uiay, and take delight
Fairy Qiuetn.
With many rather for to go alUay.

-

hill.']

its

Hears his own feet, and thinks they found like morf.
And fears his bind legs will o'ertake his fore. Pope,

Towards the hilly comers of Druina remain her

.;

i

[from

its tail to its head, it bends its back fo
head comes to touch its bind part, nnd fo
Xaj.
with its armour gatiiers itfelf into a ball.

Bringing

far till

unequal in the furface.

Hichwa'y.

That chufe the narrow path, or feek the rights

adj.

contrary
Sec

Hinder and Hindmost.

Sydney.

Milton.
By hedge-row elms, on hillock! green.
This mountain, and a few neighbouring hillocks

;

in pofition to the face ; as, hiitd legi.

hilleck Ibow by the lofty

Olympus.
Sometime walking not unfeen.

Backward

[hynbarf, Saxon.]

A little hill.

[%/j and water.]

....

With the one lar.-b a tenth deal of flour, mingleiV
with the fourth part of an A/« of beaten oil. Kxod.ii\\%,

Vet weigh this, alas I great is nolgreat to thegreater

Hichwa'ter.
The utmolt flow of the tide.

Kings.

HIND. ur<//.compar. hinder; fuperl. hiitdmoji.

What, jud^e ye, dolh a

Great road; public path.

another way by bimfelf.

fubterran:an lires, converting ihe adjacent eoiihs into
Chtyne.
their fubllance, do increafc and grow.

Amoiigll the reft a good old woman was,
llulbird'iT'ale.
IJigbl mother Hubberti.
Po/ic.
Hearn he bigb!.

I.

Alone; unaccompanied.
Ahab went one way h^ bimfelf and Obadiah went

HiN. n. f, [.Jn] A meafure of liquids
among Jews, containing about ten pints.

writings.

». /.

By Himself.

So an helps nature, nature ftrengthneth art. Fairfax.
When our eye fome profpeit would purl'ue,
Defcending from a hi!!, looks round to view. Granv.
A /J/./ is nothing but the iieft ot fome metal or mineral which, by a plaftick virtue, and the ctficicy ol

except in burlefque

U is now obfolete,

merit feta work by a reproveable badiiefs in bimfelf.
Shaktfpeare.
Kothing in nature can fo peculiarly gratify the
nobledifpofitions of humanity, as for one man to fee
another fo much bimfelf as to figh his griefs, and
groan his pains, to ling his joys, and do and feel
every thing by fympathy.
South,

Butmigbty bulwarks fence the plainer part: _

Within this homellea^ li/d wilhout a peer

perceive it was not altogether your brother's evil

I

difpolilion made him feek his death ; but a provoking

and

Three tides arei'ure imbarr'd with craggs and *<//j,

The eity of thejreat king k:ght it well,

is

ihouglits, which 1 both guide

The reft is eafy, leant to rile efp) 'd

Wheteia eternal peace and happinefs doth dwell.

2, It

ilieep arc

S,imuel,

It is fometimes not reciprocal.

5.

Sidney.
Their parture is fair bilh of fruitlefs love.
Jerufalem is feated on two bill:.
Fairfax.
Of height nnlike,. and turned lide to fide.

to be called, German.]
;

fignification.
David hid bimfelf in the field.

fcrvc

[Tins is an imperfea verb, ufed
only in the preterite tenfe with a palTivc
fignification Jjaran, to call, Saxon ; hffen,

HicHT.

J. Was named

She is advanced
Above the clouds as high as Hc3v*ti bimfelf. Sbak.
4. In the oblique cafes it has a reciprocal

Hill.

3. Dignity of nature; fupreraacy.
by
Detfruilion fiom God was a tenor to me, and
reafon of his hlghr:ejj I could nat endure. J}i,

itfelf.

RoTve'i "Jane Sbcre.
And fets us all'at nought.
An elevation
». /. [hil, Saxon.]
o?"g»ound Icfs than a mountain.

Drydcr..

royal hiibrtej,.

Sbaiefy.

A btldittg for a livery, a fquirc's cloth.

.

fudges.
Cbron.

In ancient authors it is /^(/neutrally foe

3.

2. It is ufed likewife for a mean woman.
Laura, to his lady, was but a kitchen wench

Moil royil majefty,
nt i
<r
bi%btufs olFer'd.SAj*,
I crave no more than that your

N

by way of emphatical difcrimina-

noufl,

A bafe llave,

The title of princes

I

tion.
He A/m/J^returned again.
God bimj'tlf is with us for our captain.

Shakfffean.

no more in your refp'-ft.

loftinefs.

2.

H

M

I

;

Ainf'uiorth,

Hinder me not, feerng the Lord hath profpered my
Gen. xxiv. 56.
way.
The whole *oi]d (hinedwith clear light, and none
frijd. xvii. 20.
were hindered'xn their labour.
If tlie alms were hindered only by entreaty, tlie

hinderer is not lied to reDitutiuii, becaufe entreaty
Taylor,
took not liberty away from the giver.
too much comSolitude damps thought and wit
:

TempU.
pany diflipaUis and hinders it from fixing.
What hinders younger brothers, being fathers of
Locke.
families, from having the fame right.

To Hi'ndeu. -v. ».

To raifc hindrances

to caufe impediment.

You minimus of /"W"'/;r^knot-grafsT»ia.lcl Shall.
This objection binders not but that the hero'ck
of fome commanditr, entcrpri^cd for thfl

aflion

Chriftian gaufe, aiul executed happily, may be wri tten

pcrfonal pronoun or

Thyden.

6 D

Hi .Noi^R.

H

I

''Hi'KOSH.aJJ. [froraA/W.]

That which U

in a pofition contrary to that of the face

oppofed \o face.
Bcin,

with any man, ftand upon (heir

fighting

and fo this did, being ready to give me a
Sidtiiy.
Oitewd emkracement.
As the hinder feet of the horfe ftuck to the mountain, while the body reared up in the air, the poet
with great difficulty kept himfelf from lliding off
AdJifon.
his back.
hiiiiiet teci,

Im-

Hi'nderance. H.f. [from ^W?r.]

hindered ; with to before the pcrfon.
Falfe opinions, touching the will of God to have
violent

are

praflifes

and thole

to bring forth mighty and
againft the ilitderancet <,/ ihem,

wont

prailifes

new opinions, more pernicioui

than the firft : yea, mod extremely fometimes oppo-

Dryden,
To leapyiow off its hinges.
To Hinge, t. a. [from the noun.]
1. To furnilh with hinges.
2. To bend as an hinge.

They muft be in every Chriftian church the fame,
except mete impoUibility of fo having it, be the tinHooker.
dcraxce.

What bmdtrance have they been to the knowledge
Drj)deit.

of what is well done ?

French, Wi>;wr.]
To bring to mind by a flight mention, or
remote allufion; to mention imperfeftly.

W illing to wound, and yet afraid to ilrike,
Juft bint a fault, and hefitatc diilikc.
In waking whilpcr-, and repeated dreams,

way

juftice.

HiNDERER. n. f. [from hinder.'\

Speaking of .\uguftus's actions, he (till remembers
that agriculture ought to be fome way hinud at
thioughout the whole poem. AJdif, an the Georgich.

Hj'nderling. n.f. [from hind or tinder.]

A

paltry, worthlefs, degenerate animal.
Hi'ndermost. adj. [This word feems to

be lefs proper than hi/idmofi.]

Hindmoft;

in the rear.
He put the handmaids and their children fotemoft
and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and
laft ;

Genejis.

jofcph bindermtft.

Like to an enter'd tide they all rurti by.
Shakefpeare.
And leave you hindermoft.

Let him ftriflly obferve the firft
the firll bints and whifpers of good auJ
South,

Suggeftion;

n. /.

\oxhingle, from bangle ot

han^.l
Joints open which a gate or door turns.

t.

Aftions are fo full of circumftaiices, that, as men
more than others, they take
ditferent bints, and put different interpietations on
Addifin.
them.
obfcrve fome parts

HIP. n. f. [hyppe, Saxon.]

The joint of the thigh.

1.

The haunch; the flelh of the thigh.

2.

To have on

On golden binga turning.

feems to be taken from hunting, the h/'f
or hatirich of a deer being the part commonly feized by the dogs.
If this poor branch of Venice, whom 1 cherifli.
For his <)uick hunting, ftand the putting on,
I'il have our Michael Caffio on the hip. Shiikefpeare,

of the briar or the dogrofe.

Millox.

Deftbam.
Heav'n's imperious qiieen fhot down from high;
At her approach the brazen hinges fly.
Dryden.
The gates are forc'd.
J. The cardinal points of the world, Eaft,
Weft, North, and South.
If when the moon is in the hingr at Eaft,
The birih breaks forward from in native reft

Full eighty years, if you two years abate.

3.

Creech's Manilius.

A governing rule or principle.
age of ftve-and-tiMCnty, Ihould pay the third part of
'Temple.
tDcir revenue.
_

To be off the Hinges. To be in a Hate
of irregularity and diforder.
The man's fpirit is out of order, and off the
Ungis ; and till that be put into its njht frame, he
Will be pcrp etuAlly dif^uietcU.

Hub, Tale,
Behold, the earth hath

E.itiiig Z'/^j,and drinking wat*ry foam.

Why Ihould you want?

TiiUi/on.

To procure arty thing for temporary ufe

1.

at a certain price.
His fordid avarice rakes
In excrements, and hires thcjakcs. Dryd. Juvenal.
2. To engage a man in temporary fervicefoi

wages.
They weigh filver in

the balance, and hire a
goldfmiih, and he maketh it a god.
Ifj. xlvi. 6.
1 cannot ftrike at wretched kerns, whofe arms
Shakeffearr,
Are hir'd to bear their ftaves.

To bribe.
Themctes firft, 'tis doubtfiil whether hir'J,

Or fo the Trojan dcftiny ret]uir'd,
Mov'd that the ramparts might be broken down.
Dryden.

To engage for pay

4.

word.
They that were

hired out therofelves for

To

This, to prevent ambiguity, has
fometimes the particle out as, he htnJ
out his houfe tft ftrangers.
HiRB. n.f. [hyfie, Saxon.]
Reward or recompencc paid for the ufc
of any thing.
2. W-iges paid for fervice.
;

1

Great thanks and goodly meed to that good lire ;

He tliencc departing gave for his pains i/rr. Sptnfer,
1

To Hip. f a. [from hif.]

Though little was their biie, and light, their gaM>,
Drydifs.
Yet fomewhat to their (l.are he threw.
All arts and anift s Thefcus could command,

'

.

1.

To fprain or (hoot the hip.

2.

HiP-Hop.

His horl'e was bifp'd.

have five hundred crowns.
Sbaktfp.
I fav'd under your lather.

The thrifty hire

Years of ftore of haws and hips do commonly porBacon's Naluial Hijiory.
tend cold winters.

Who fold for hire, or wrought for better fame.

Sbakefpeare.

Dryden,

A cant word formed by the Hireling.*./ [from^V^.]

reduplication of hp/i.
Your ditferent laftet divide our poet's cares;

to one ; the fame as the Latin eho, htus

X"^]-

The hireling longs to fee the Ihades defcenJ,

A

That with the tedious day his toil might end.

Ain/nxorth.

Hifpocb'ntaur. »./. [i'Tir»;<i»7»i'j®-; hif-

Sandys,

And he his pay receive.

In the framing of Hiero's Ihip there were three
hundred carpenters employed for a year, befidesm:iny
kf'iikini't Daaaius.
other iirelings for carriages.
'Tis trcqLjcnt here to lee a freebom fon
On the left hand of a rich binling run. Drydjiv.

!

Ainfworth
corruption of hypo-

chondriack.

One who ferves for wages.

1

Thus, while he Urives to pleafc, he's forc'd to do't
Congrtve.
Like Volfcius bip-bcp in a lingle boot.
Hip. interjeli. An exclamation, or calling

Hl'ppiSH. J

with the reciprocal

price.

The oaks bear mafts, the briars fcarletii^j. Sbakrfp.

Hip.

full,

:

bread ; and they thatwere hungry, ceafed. 1 Sam. ii.
let; to fet for a time at a certain
5.

roots;

One foot the fock, t'other the bulkin wears:

The athct hinge of punilbmcot might (urn upon
^law, whereby all men, who did not marry by the

4.

It

A plant

To HIRE. -v. a, [hvTian, Saxon.]

[A low phrafe.]

Hip.

To have an advantage over another.

Then from the hinge their ftrokes the gates divorce,
And where the way they cannot find, they force.

This llalioii give.

the

you were bipjhit j fays the goofe to the
L'ifirange.

AiHjkunrth,

3.

So (hcpherd's ufc
To fet the fame mark on the hip
Hudiiras.
Both of their found and rotten Iheep.
Againfl a flump his tuiks the monger grinds.
wound.
bij>s
one
continu'd
with
And ranch'd his
Dryden.
3.

as if

gofiing.

How now, which of your hips has the moft proShakefpeare.
found fciatica.
Hippocrates affu'meth of the Scythians, that, ufing
continual riding, they were generally molelled with
Brotvn's Vuigar Errours.
the fciatica or hip gout.

Hip. n.f. [from )3copa, Saxon. J The fruit

At the gate

Of hcav'n aniv'd, the gate felf-opca'd wide,

fool,

Hi'pwoRT. n.f. \hif and <io»r/.]

On this bint 1 fpake,

—

fjiNGE.

Why do you go nodding and waggling fo like a

timations,

Hi'hdmost.c^'. [^Wandwrj/?.] Thelaft;
the lag ; that which comes in the rear.
'Tia not his wont to be the bindmiifi man,
Whate'er occafion keeps him from us now. Sbakefp.
He met thee by the way, and fmote the hindmoji
of thee, even all that were feeble behind. Dtut. xxv.
Let him retire, betwixt two ages caft
The tirit of this, and kindmcji of the laft,
Dryden,
A lofing gamefter.
The race by vigour, not by vaunts is won ;
himdmoji
and
hell
he
faid,
run.
Vofe,
So take the

the river horfe.
An animal foundtn the
Nile.
Sprained or
I'r SHOT. adj. Hrip and >*«/.]
diflocated in the hip.

H

evil, thit pafs in his heart.

She lov'd me for the dangers 1 had pall. Sbai.Otlelh.

Brakes, great i;Wf/-frj of all plowing, grow. May.

0( hippogriffe bore through the airfublime. Milton.

ftirrings and in-

2.

A

and yf^;
winged horfe;

Hipp opoTAMUs.w.y; \jnno<, andTerotji*.©-.]

diftant infinuation.

intimation.

[iW©-

/.

a being imagined by Ariofto.
He caught him up, and without wing

Hint. «./. ffrom the verb.]
Faint notice given to the mind; remote

».

French.]

hipfo^riffe ,

upon.

alluiion ;

^lincy.

rification,

Hi'ppocRiFF.

Tb((mfon.

He or

that which hinders or obftrufts.

Hi'pf ocRATts's SLc-je. n.f. A woollen
bag, made by joining the two oppofite
angles of a fquare piece of flannel, ufcd
to ftrain fyrrups and decodions for cla-

To Hi NT at. To allude to; to touch flightly

that leads to

Ath-rhury.

Sack and the well-fpic'd hippocrafs, the wine,
Waffail the bowl, with ancient ribbands fine. King,

Pofe.

To bint pure thought, and warn the favour'd foul.

His fellow's bindtrance in purfiiit ol love > Dryden.
He mull conquer all thefe difficulties, and remove
hinderancet out of the

[enter,

a.

A medicated wine.

•vinum Hippocraiis,\

Shakefpeare.

Blow off thy cap.

One foul Ihould both infpire, and neither prove

all thefe

Hl'ppoc R A ss. n.f. \hjpocras, French ; quaji

And let his very breath, whom thou'lt obferve,

1.

Have we not plighted each our holy oath.

How are poetical fidions, how are klpferentatiri
and chimeras to be imagined, which are things i^uiie
out of naiuie, and whereof we can have no notion f
Dryden.

Be thou a flati'rcr now, and i/«j» the knee,

HoMr.

fite to the Erft.

horfe, and half man.

Soloofe, that it but wants another pulh

-7»HlNT. f.

R

I

A fabulous monfter, half

ftxfntaurt, Fr.]

Methinki we ftand on ruins, Kalurt (hakes
About us, and this uoivcrCtl frame

pediment; let; flop; obftruftion: with
cf, fometimes with to, before the thing

things done,

H

H I P

N

2.

A mercenary

;

a proftitute.

Now Ihe ftiades the eveining walk with bays,
Hobireling ihe, no proftitute to fraife.

/''/>'.

HutLl.NC.

H IS

HIS

111 iztrTfC, aJJ.

Serving for hire; rfnal
merccnar}'; doingwhatis done for money.
Then trumpets, torches, and a tedioui crew
Oiifreiing mourners for his funeral doe.
Dryjm.
Hi'rer. »./. [fTomiire.]
1, One who ufes auf
thing paying a recompence; one who einplojs others pay.
rng wages.
2. In fcotland it denotes one who keeps

Againft the deed he threw
His forceful fpear, which, hijing as it 6ew,
Pierc'd through the yielding planks.

Roagh

;

I

As watert to the fuckiog of a gulph. Hhakejf. il.W
If much you note hijn,
You Hull oOend him, and eitend hit paflion. Shall.

Thy mother plays, and I.
Play too ; but fo difgrac'd a part, whofe iflue
Will biji mc to my grave. Sbuh/f. Ifixier't Tali:

Yojr part in her you could not keep from death ;
But heav'n keeps hit pan in eternal lite.
Sh^ikcff.

—That of an hour's age newell
doth

:

What's the

Each minute teems a new one.

A difmal univerfal hifi, the found

Of publick fcorn

Milton.

!

Fierce champion fortitude, that knows do tears

CA hiffes, blows, or want, or lofs of cars.

Hi ST. ittterj.

This rule is not fo general, but that it admitieili
hit e«c;ptions.
Carru-j Smrvry ofCarn-ualt.
Opium lofeih fome ol bit poilbnous quality if it

Dtnnt.

By thy fond confort, by ihy father's cares.

By young Telern.ichis hit blooming years.
fife
4. It is fometimes ufed in oppafition to this

have heard that it

is

manding filence.]
manding filence.

I

Pofe.

know not

lilcnce hifi along
Philomel will deign along.
In her Iweetell faddeft plight.

Smoothing the nigged brow of night.

Milton.
Uif}, hifi, lays another that Hood by, awjy, doctor i tor here's a whole pack of difmal's coming.

Were I king,

[hifen, Dutch.

His works rcfcinble a large hifiory piece, where
even the lefs important figures have lorac convenient
P'»«-

In the height of this bafh to be thrown
into the

;

becoming buffoon

H S TR o'n c a l
I

1

healricaily ;

;

theatrical.

\.adv.\{\ omhijlriotiical.^
in the manner ol a buffoon.
I.

'Junius
1.

.

]

i'o llrike ; to touch witli a blow.
When 1 firfl faw her 1 was picfenily (Incken j
and 1, like
ti-olilh child, ihni when >iny ihiiig hits
him will ftiikr himfcif .ig.iin upon it, would needs
look again, as though I would perfuade mine eyes
that they v/tte deceived.
Sidney.
His conftieiice lliall 16/r him in the teeth, and tell
him his fin and roily.
South.
.1

2.

To touch tjie mark

;

not to mifs.

Is he a god that ever Hicsthe light ?

Pope

.Suitable or pertaining to hiftory
or nar-

rative.

I

To HI r. XI. a. [from iHiis, Latin, Miufhenu ;
from hiite, Danilli ; to throw at random,

Containing or giving an account of faiHs
and events.

Here rifing bold the pattiol's honefl face
j
There warriuis frowning in bijlotiik brals.
2.

P<ipe.

HISTRIC'XICAL. 7 adj. [from hifirio.
HISTRIO'NICK. J Latin hifirio„,Yt.-]

'

'

Becaufe the beginning feemnh abrupt, it
needs
that you know the occafion of thefr
feveral adventures J for the method of a poet
bifiorical is not
fuch as of an h iltoriographer.
Stenfrr.
In an bifiorical relation we ufe terms thai
are
moft proper and bell known.
Humei't Theory.

Tlumes md cooled glowing hot, in that furee, like

A piflure reprefent-

ing fome memorable event.

"1

and fome other animals. It is remarkable
that this word cannot be pronounced
without making tlic noife which it fi£^
nitics.

a Iwrlefhoe ; think of that ; biffwg hot. .W..,ytW-p,
The merchants Ihall h!/, at Utce. £V*. kvii. 16
See the furies arile :

Addifon.

HISTO'RICAL. adj. [hiflorigue. French
HISTO'RICK. / iy.4«r, L;,tin.]
f.

Pope,

The knowledge of fafts and events.

History Piece, n.f.

Milion.

Not added yearson ye.iri my t»(k could clofc.
The Ujng bijlurian of my country's woes.
I'tipt.

To utter a noife like that of a ferpent

But (fill loug-weary'd nature wants itpair.

Befitting the ftage ; fuitable to a player

writers of the
every other kind of work, has been

very barren in good bifitriani.

lands,

ffyetn.

Hifl'.ry fo far as it relates to the affairs of the
bible, is nccclfary to divines.
H'aits.

Equal, have 1 to render tliee, divine
Hlfl'jrtjn.

figure in

Tope.

Narration ; relation.
The bIJIary part lay within a little room,
What hiflcrirs of toil could I declare i

2.

iiti'ifi.

HiSTo'RfA.N. n.f. [hifloricui, J^tin; hiftoTien, French.^
A writer of fafts and
events; a writerof hiftory.
What thanks fufficient, or what recompence

l>riire hi, jewels, ai>d this other's
houfe. Shair/p.

To n 1 $s. -V. n

Juftly C;efar fcoriis the poet's lays
It^is to hiftory he trulls for praile.

3.

,

Latin;

h,ftoria

French.]
1. A narration of events and fafts delivered
with dignity.

!

'I.efs

firft

5. Anciently before/-^.
Every of us, each for bit felf, laboored
how to
recover him.
sidrry.

HISTO'RY. ». /. [.V<¥'«;

hujht, hifi ; but I

Our country, which has produced

I ftioulJ cut o»r the nobles for their

ner ot the biftoriogiaphrrs of lome eatlern mouiiArbulbnot's H{ft. of John Bull.

hij}oire,

an Irifh verb comAn exclamation com-

— Mule

matt I.

An hif.

Aiidifon.
I piit the joumaliinto a ftrongbox, after the man.

fome thought it a corrupit,

It ij

made Mciltalalem A/ipagc ?

:

tion of h»fi>, hujh

be vapoured out, mingled with fpiritof wine. Boom.

fometimes ufed as a fign of the
genitivecafe; as the man, \{\i ground, I'ort/e
man't grfvnd. It is now rarelv thus ufed,
as its ofe proceeded probably from a
falfe
opinion that the / formative of the genitive was kit contiafted.
Where is thi» mankind now > who lives to ate

[Of this word

the original

ynung-ey'd clierubims. Stjkrff.

and

l/fofia

HiSTORio'cRAPHY.w.y; [(VofiKaodyfa^*.]
The art or employment of an hiftorian.

On all fides, from innumerable tongues,

Not the dreadful fpout.

f.

"'II-

He heaid

Who can imprefs the lorcft, bid the In:*
Unfix hit earth-bound root >
Shjk'f[,. Macieth.

Tt»

'""'"-'' °f » i»«t hillotical is not fuch as of
T''»
^^^hiftonographer.
Spenfer.
What poor ideas mull ftrangers conceive ofperl'on»
famous among us, Ihould they form their notions
of
them from the writings of thofe oat bijioriagraphert,

theatres.

2. It was anciently ofed in a neutral fenfe
where we now fay its.

Fit to be

Shjkefp. Maeictb.

Cenfure; expreflion of contempmfed in

2.

n.

y.x<pu ; ki/ioriograpkt, French.]
torian ; a writer of hiftory.

He hift for hifi relurn'd, with forked tongue
To forked tongue.
Miller..

AdJifCI

Scill quiring to the

Historio'grapher.

grief ?

animals.

Lotkt.

[irora fjrfloty.']

relate ; to record in hiftory.
O, mufe, bifiorify
Her praife, whofe praile to learn your fkill hitJs
framed me.
Sidney.
The third age they term hiftorlcon ; that is, fuch
wherein matters have been more truly hifioriped,
and Ihctcfore may be believed. Brown's f^ulg. Err.

Hrss. n.f. [from the verb.]
1. The voice of a ferpent, and of fome other

hioifclf:

Pope's Effay en Homer.

^ Histo'rifv. ^ ,7.
To

hijt the (peaker.

U

He that is nooriflied by the acorns he picked up
under an oak in the wood, has appropriated them to
nobody can deny but the nourilhment is

ten, 1 Ihall confider him bifioricalty
as an author,
wilii regard to thofe works he has left behind him.

who have

tiven,

Collier om Dutllilg.

;

SbalirffcaTf.

of God ?

Hooker.
After his life has been rather invented than writ-

To procure hiffes or difgrace.

2.

Heav'n and yourfelf

I.

have feen many fuccelTions of

Had part in this (air maid now heav'a halh all,
And all the better is it for the maid
our father carry aathorit^ with fuch difpofitiun
as he bears this latt fuirendcr of bit, it will but of-

Ditaiit, and fo urge it further
tlian we can ptove it
was intended, do we not add to the laws

y.

into the world, fome bolting out
upon the lUgc with vaft applaufe, and others biJ/,-d
oft, and quitting it with difgrace.
Dryden.
Will you ventuic youi all upon a caufe, which
would be bijfed out of all the courts as ridiculous ?

England hit approaches makes as herce

3.

[i^^ter.
When that which the word of Cod doth but
deliver hifhrically, we conftTueas
if it were legally

(hot themfelves

In hit defcent.
Sbtkr/p. Trcilut atiA Crrjpdti.
There's not the fmallett orb, which thoa behold "ft,
But in bit motion like an' angel fings,

owrperfon.

Every one will i//rhim out 10 his difgrace.
Eceltf.xx'n.

bif-

Ibmet.'-Iiig which our Lord Jefus
Chrilthimfelf either fpoke, did, or fuftercd in his

She would fo fhamefully fail in the laft ad, that
inltead of a plaudite, fhc would defetve to be
hijf.it
offthefiage.
More.

Belonging to
him that was before mentioned.

Shall dizT with m.>re clamour N.-ptune'i ear

toncally declare

;

The mafculine poffeflive.

Whtne'er I ftnop, be offers at a kifs
Aad whea my aims I (tretch, be ftrelcbes hit.

by way ot

The gofpels, whichj^ weekly read, do all

^andyt,

Baiox.

>>'•'

In the manner of hiftory ;
narration.

T» Hiss. I', a. [jjij-cean, Saxon.]
1
To condemn by hilling to explode.

the putting forth fap upwards

fcn<> m-

hi/torical.]

j

}\\%. pronoun fojejive. [\iff, Saxon.]
I.

Histo'rically. adv. [from

Hi/s, clap their hands, and from his country c^Saee.

:

fibro'js ; that, b^fides

Prior.

Dnden.

which is fometimes done by /bi//;ng.
Men (hall putfue with merited difgrace

rhere are bulbout, fibrous, and brrfatf roots
ttie blrfuttK a middle fort, between the bulbous and

and downwards, puticth ibnh in round.

Their laws, their toils, their arms with his cotnpare.

To condemn at a publick exhibition;

2.

r

I

Willi equal juftice and hifloriciatt.

How they iife in their hair. Dryd. Alexander't Feafl

fmall horfes to let.

Hirsu'te. aJJ. [hiifuias, Latin.]

H
'

See ihe fnaltej that they rear,

Or naked he, difguis'd in all untruth ?
If he be Mind, how hillelh licfo right ?

Sidney.

So hard it is to tremble, and not to err, and to hit
the mark with a Ihaking hand.

bD z

South.

3.

'lo

n

H T
I

To attain; to reach

3.

;

not to fail; ufed

Wen

I but twenty-one,
Yourf»tb*r'« image is (ooii in you,
Jlis very air, tlut I Ihould cill you brother,

Shah/p.

As 1 did him.

Scarclicvcry comment that your care can find,
Some here, Tome there, Ai' til the poet's miud.

Rofcommon.
Birds learning tunes, and their endeavours to hii
the notes right, put it pad doubt that they have per-

ihem tor patterns.

Lickr.
Here's an opportunity to (hew howf great a bungler
Atleriurj.
my author is in bitting features.

4. To fuit

to be conformable to.
Hail, divined melancholy !

to touch properly.
There you hit him St. Dominick loves charity
exceediogly i that Jtsumeut never fails with him.
Drydrn.

To ftrike out; to fix or

determine luckily.
What prince foever can A;i c/' this great fecret,
need know no more either for his own fafcty, or that
'

TunfU.
To perform by good luck.

of the people he governs.

7. To

H 1 r ont.

Having the found of ancient poets ringing in his
bit out, fome of
ears, he mought needs in fmging
Sftnjer.

their tunes.

To Hit. i;. n.
If bodies be ejtenfion alone, how can they move
and bit one againll another ? or what can make difLoch.
tindfurfaces in an uniform extenfion ?
Bones, teeth, and (hells being fuftained in the

water with mctallick corpufcles, and the faid corpufdes meeting with and hiiting upon thofe bodies,
IVoodu-ard.
become conjoined with them.
chance luckily ; to fuccecd by acj.

To

cident : nqt to mifs.

Where moll it promifes and oft it hits
Where hope is ccldell and dcfpair moft fits. Shakrfp.
3. To fucceed ; not to mifcarry.

Shakefptare.

Thefe bitt of words a true poet often finds, without

Jiaconi Nat. Hificry.

But thou bring'ft valour too and wit,

Siiift.

There is a kind ofconveyiogbfeffeaual and imprinting paffages amongft compliments, which is of
Batcn.
ifaman can i/ruponit.
You've tit upon the very ftr'tng, which touth'd,
Echoesthe found, and jars within my foul
Vryden's Sfanijb Fryar.
There lies my grief.
ihcy
It is much, if men were Itom eternity, that
ihould not find out the way of writing fooner : fure
ht was a fottanitc man, who, after men had been
ttemally fo dull as not to find it out, bad the luck
TilUtfon.
lail to hit upon it.
at

Theie'sa juft medijmbeiwijt eating, too much
when
tod too little ; and this dame had bit upon it,
brought her
the matter was fo ordered that the hen

'

Vlijii<"ig'.
every day an egg.
Addijan.
None of them hit upon the art.
prcJiflion
in any
There's but a true and .1 falfc
the
telling of fortune ; and a man that never bitt on
but muft
right fide, cannot be called a bad guctfcr,

ra.fsoutofdcfign.

Hit. * /. [from the verb.]
I.

Bmtlty.

»

The

German.]

beatSh or

is

combed.

HiTHE. n.f. [hy^e, Saxon.] A fmall haven
to land wares out of veflels or boats :

bees.
So bees with fmoke, and doves with noifome ftench.
Are from their iiizier and houfcs driv'n away, i'iaf
So wand'ring bees would perilh in the air,
Did not a found, ptoportion'd to their ear,
Appeafe their rage, invite them to the hi-ve. IValler.
Bees have each of them a hole in their hi-ues ;
tlieir honey is their own, and every bee minds her

The bees inhabiting a hive.
The commons, like an angry hive of bees

now Lam3.

HI' rHER. adv. [hiSep, Saxon.

That want their leader,' fcaiter up and down. Sbti.
company being together.

A

What modern mafons call a lodge, was by antiquity called a hive of free mafons ; and therefore,
when a difienfion happens, the going off is to this

1. To this place from fome other.

Caefar tempted with the fame

Of thisfweet ifland, never conquered,
And envying the Biitons blazed name,

To Hive. 'v.a. [from the noun.]
1.

Men mud endure
Their going hence, cv;n as their coming hither.

,

A ftroke.
The king hath laid, that in a dozen paffes between
vou and him, he (hall not exceed you three bJtt.
Sbalifff. Hamlit.
So he (he fam'd -Cilici-in fencer prais'd
And at each hit with wonder feem amaz'd. Drydtt!,

to this defign ; to this to-

Latin.
Not much ufed.

of argument :

\hiic,

Hue

refer exitt/m?]
Hereupon depcndeih whatfocver difference there is
between the dates of (aims in glory j hither we refer
whatfocver belongcth i:t:to thf highed perfection 01
Hooter.
roan, byway of fervicc,towards God.
Hiihtr belong all thofe texts which require of u
af;er
but
ficfli,
walk
after
the
that we diould not
TiUot/ln.
thcfp:rit.

Hither. a<^". f\3\ierl. hilhermtifi.

Nearer;

After ihcfe.

From the high neighb'ring hills defcended. Milton.
An eternal duration may be (horter or longer upon
the hither end, namely that extreme wherein it is
H"''.

Hi'THtRMOST. aJJ. [oi hither, adv.l Neareft on this fide.

That which is external can be extended to agreater

Hi'therto. attv. \iiom bitber.'\

biggeft, irarthcm.

2.

_

Mortimer's Hujhandry.

To contain, as in hives

;

to receive, as

Ambitious now to take excife
Of a more fragr.int paradife.

He at Fufcara's deeve arriv'd.
CleavelanJ.
Where all delicious fweets are hi-j'J.
To take iheltcr together;

Te Hive. -v. ».

to refide coUeftively.

He deeps bv day
More than the wild cat

:

drones hive not with me.
SLikv/p.

Therefore 1 part with him.

In fummer we wander in a paradifaical fcence,
among groves and garderns ; but at this feal'on we

Hi'ver. »./. [from hi-ve.']

But on the hither fide, a difTerenl fort.

extent, at the hithermrjl extreme.

When bees are fully fettled, and the cluderatthe

get into warmer houfet, and hi-je t»gether in cities.
Pope'e Letters.

towards this part.

finite.

; to harbour.
Mr. Addifon of Oxford has been troublefome to
me after his bees, my latter fwarm is fcarcely worth
Drydrn.
Mving.

to an habitation.

ther, to this place and that.

Tothisend;

To put into hives
:

Who brought me hither
Will bring me hence, no other guide 1 feek. Milton.
2. It is ufed in oppofition : hither sxA'thi-

pick

Smi/t.

day called fwarming.

hideous hunger of dominion! hither came.
Spenjer.

3.

Addifon.

own concerns.
2.

beth.

fingularufc,

Milton,

1

Fopr.

TbHi'TCHEL. 1'. n. [See Hatchel.]
To beat or comb flax or hemp.
\}ieckil,

The bait of honey "d words ; a rougher tongue

HIVE. »./. [hype, Sazon.j
The habitation or artificial receptacle of

Whoe'er olFends at fome unlucky time
Slides in a verfe, or bitckti in a rjhme ;

inftrument with which flax

A puifliint and mighty pow'r
Shakefp,
Is marching bilberivard in proud array.
Look now for no enchanting voice, nor fear

Draws bitberu-ard.

know well what it means.

Stvifi.

_

[hy^enpeapb.

ati-v.

Saxon.] This way ;
towards this place.
Some parcels of their power are forth already,
Shhkejp. Ci.riJMUt,
And ot\\i biihenv.ird.
The king himfelf in perfon hath fct forth,
Shakeff.
Ot bifherivurds intended fpecdily.

Shaktfp.

To light on.

4.

"1

[heijan, Saxon, or ^ofA^r
To catch ; to move
French. Skinner \
by jerks. I know not where it is ufed
but ill the following paffage ; nor here

/

Drydiit.

Hi'therward.
Hi'therwards. J

Prior.

Five deep )ic toilts the low'i ing lalics.

Hudiiras.

All human race would fain be wits,
And millions mifs for one that hilt.

To correft them, is a work that has hitherto beea

To Hitch, 'v. n

Tlvismay hit, 'til more than barely poflible.

Dryd. Juvenal.

the praftice of the moderns.

If at firft he minds his bits.

The experiment of binding of thoughts would be
Jiverfified, and you are to note whether it i«i for ihc

Two things that feldom fail to hit.

MUtort.
have perform'd.as re.»fon was, obeying.
Hitherto (he kept her love conceal'd.
And with thole graces every day beheld
Drydrn.
The graceful youth.
He could not have failed to add the oppolitiou of
biiixrio been
ill fpirits to the good alone : this has

And drinks.champaigne among the wits,

Hi'tchel. »./.

H.oker,

commands impos'd

I

Dryd,^

feekipg.

j

jnoft part.

Hitherto, lords, what your

adiimed by the leaii qualified hands.

Have all hi^ ventures fiil'd ? What, not one hit f

as Queetihithe, and Lambhitbe,

Oftexpeflaiion fails, and moft oft there

•

In this we

^

;

are not their advetfaiics, tho' they in

the other hitherto hjve been ours.

A lucky chance.

3.

At every time till now.

3.

Ifcafualconcourfe did the world compofe.

Sacred to ridicule his whole life long.
And the fad burthen of fome merry fong.

Toclafli; to collide.

I.

2. In any time till now.
More ample I'pirit than hitherto was wont.
Here needs me, while the famous anccftties
Of ray moft dreadful fovereign I recount. Fairy

And things and i/« fortuitous arofe,

:

To Hit tf.

Hitherto I have only told the reader what ought
not to be the fubjcil of a pi£lute or ol a poem. Di yd.

L;Eftriingc.

vours will not fail.

Yet; to this time.

I.'

to perform divcrfity of orderly motions, without the
regulation of art, this were the more pardonable abGranvillt.
furdity.
If the rule we judge by be uncertain, it is odds
but we Ihall judge wrong; and if we Ihould judge
right, yet it is not properly (kill but chance; not a
Ssutb,
true judgment, but a luc!;y hit.
Ij»t with more lucky bit than thofe
Hudiirai.
depofe.
ftars
That ufe to make the
The fiiherman's waiting, and the lucky hit it
had in the conclufion, tells us, that honeit endea-

Miaon.

Toftrike; to catch by the right Vait

6.

a fortuitous event.

'Ihcn any thing might come ffom any thing
For how from chance can conftint order fpring ?
Blackmare.

;

Whofc faintly vifage is too bright
To lit the fcnfe ofhuman fight.
5.

;

To fuppofe a watch, by the blind biti of chance,

of tentative experiments.

ception, and retain ideal, and ufc

A chance

1.

HO A

I

Hale.

One who puts

bees in hives.
Let the hiver drink a cup of good beer, and wafh
Mortimer.

his hands and face therewith.

A (.all ; a
[eho / Latin.
fuddcn exclamation to give notice of approach, or any thing elfe.
Sbakr/petrt.
What noife thereto?

Ho.
Hoa.

1

iuterj.

j

Here dwells my father Jew : hoa, who's wuhin ?
Shakffprare.

StauA

»pr
•j'fand ia

Shukeff

fp«ak the word along.

•

Ho'ariness. 11, f, [from ^oar)'.] The ftate

.

White.

'
.
^

I.

•

:

T,,,

-

•,

.,;

tbomfx.

The raven liimfeli is boarfc^ [ ^

Grey with zgif.
Itg'jvtrn'J was and guided evermore

\

ip^,,',

.

,

laid up in fecrct ; a hidden (lock ; a treafure.
1 have a renturous fairy, that (hall feek
The fquincl'i board, and fetch thee thence new
nuts.
Shakrfp.
They might have even ftarved, had it not been
for this providential referve, this board that was
ftowed in the ilrala underneath, and now fcaronably

Sfenfer,

To

3.

i

Ro^t rs.
2. It is rometimes enforced by the parucle

«/.

Fairies, black, grey, green and white,
Attend your office and your quality ;
Crier hobgoblin, m.ikc tlic fairy o-yes.

Priot,

•

Sbaktff.

mofly ; rufty.

in fliocing a hobby or lihlC
horfe ; a hail with a thick ftrong head.
Steel, if thou turn thine edge, I befcech Jove

Sbakefp.

We Ihall buy maidens as they buy hobnails, by
Ho'BfiAiLE'D. adj, [from'iSfiaai/.l .Set with
..•";„'. ';';^: '.;
hQbnaiis. ,,
.

WouM'ft Blou, f?[eh(},'"whVhart'^i)'!egs alone,

To a whole compahy of hubndif'ifihoci )

HocK. //./ [The Tanic wWhoi/gh

To move roughly or unevenly.

Feet

Prior.

Uneven

aukwp.rcl j»riit.

[froni -thfe' liotfti.]

yTo

difableihtheHiick.
•;:
Hock.
•XvJf. [frqtji Hockheim, on
Ho'cKAMORB. 5 the Ma/w.] Old ftrong
'

'.n

Kheniftvi r

j

,

', "•/

.Kedor'd the fainting, high and mighty,
With brandy, wine, and ar^ua "jitee ;

And made *em lloutly overcome
With bachrach, '6oc^/iW(;rr and mum.
Hudibrtts,
Wine becomes Iharp, as bock, like vitriolicic

Dryd'jn.

Ho'bble. K.f. [from the verb.]

HoCK. 'V,

To

being afcribcd to verfcs, whatever Is <3one
with feet is li.kewife afcribtd to them.
Thofc ancient Romans had a fort or extempore
While you Pindarick truths teheaife,
She hobbles in alternate verfe.

Dtyde^
pbh,
;

Saxon.]
'I'he joint between the kne?
and the fetlock.'

acidity.
.

•

Flayer,

If cyder-myal (houkl beoome unpleafant, and at
unlit to bottle as old haekumori, mix one hoglliead
of
'

the relief it gives in moilt atltimas, of which* thick

Sbakefp.

Would'It ihou,4o run the.grfmlk-f, thefe eXjjofr,

To walk lamely or ankwardly upon one
leg more than the other; to hitch ; to

poetry, or untuncablc b bbiing verfe.

'

the hundred.

Slal'fjp.

Some pcrfons continued a kind of hobbling march
on the broken arches, but fell ihrofuh.'
Addifm.
Was he ever able to walk without leafllng-ftrings
without being difcovercd by his hcbblivg f
SmJ'i.
2,

on

my knees diou may'll be turn'd into hobnails.

.

..

Sbakefp,

nail ufed

walk with unequal and incumbered fteps.
The friar was hobbling the fame way too. Dryden.

One that

since commodities will be raifed, this alteration
an advantage to nobody but boarder, of

>

A

Ho'bit. «./. A fraall mortar to flioot little
bombs.
Ho'bn ail. n.f. [from hobby and 7iaiJ^ 'A

hotbU.]

Drydot.

tharhouird has its leaves and flower-cup covered
very thick with a while hoannefs : it is famoui for

;

always hopping on one leg.]

frightful fair)'.

To HO'BBLE. f. n, [to hop, to hcpplf,Xo

The bafe wretch who boards uf all he can,
1« prais'd, and caii'd a careful ihriUy man.
DryJ.

A plant.

fox

Awry headed'frofts

_

thcfflfelves, and hinder others from making ufe otii.

ixkf.

:

.Icpulc^re : bobntb is bis word; giv't it,Qrtakf:'(.

1.

ftores up in fecret.

A

His incenfcment at this moment is fo ilSnpIa'cabIc,
-

!

Coold With this Rod of Sid compare.
Swift.
:.'
ftUpid fellow. A •'
I have lludied eight* or nine wife .words to fpeak
to you , which thcfe boiby hfsrki muH not hear.

probably, according to Wallis and 'Juniris,
bopgobiifts', empufes, becanfe they do not
mpv« their feet : whence, fays Wallis,
came the boys play of/Jv inihf h-Ae, the

that fatisfa^lion can be none, but pangsof de.ith and

I have juH occafion to complain of them, who becaufc they underftand Chaucer, would board him uf
as miCers do their grandam gold, only to look on it

HoARHoUND. »./. [marruiiim, Latin.]

Mouldy

.

»hcn it is bo:trded\n our treafi^r^s, or confidercj as
a fafe, independent provifion laid up for rtatiy years.

mooty.

i

Prior,

Hobgo'blin. n. /, [according to Skinner,
for robgoblins, from Robin Qoidfello<w, Hob
being the nickname of Robin
but more

He's NOB. This is probably corrupted from
hab nab by a coarfe pronunciation. See
',
Hab kab.
•.

An 0/ fjiiicat Lying.

will be

4.

See

There was brought out of the citv ioto the camp
very coar.'c, hoary, moulded bread. Knolja's Hijlory

A fuper6iious abundance tempt) us to forget Gud,

Hoa'rder.w /. [iiom /^oard.]

But Ieap^io//i//», and I'cont

Sbakefp.

Fall in the frelh lap of the rrimfon rofe.

4.

Clanvili^.

On hoifecaird bobby, or without.
No b'Aby horfe, with gorgeous top,

M'hite with froll.

The feafons alter

.

As younj children, who are try'd in

whitifh.

Then in full age and hoary holinefs.
Retire, great preacher, to thypromis'd blifs.

lay in hoards ; to hulband privily ;
to (lore fecretly.
The hoarded plague of the gods requite your love ?
Shahfp.
You hoard not healrh for your own private ule.
But OQ the publick I'pend the rich produce. Drydtn.
You will be uniuccefitui, ii you give out of a great

;

Wlien members knit, and legs grow ftronger.
Make ule of fuch machine no longer %

Has then my boary head defenr'd no better.
Ro^e.

To Hoard. 1;. a.

•'
,

Go.carts, to keep their fteps from Aiding,

A comely palmer cl.id in black attire,

Happy always was it for that Ton,
Whofe fatlier for his hoarding went to hell ? Sbak,

.".

,

contendei-s about opiiiionatjye triilec

•

Ofripcft years, and hairs all ^«iry grey.
Spenfer.
Solyman, marvelling at the courage and majelly
af the boary o\i prince in his fo great extremity,
dilmilTed him, and fcnt him again into the city.
Knoll.'sU Hilary,

.

,.

look; like aged Socratts upon his boy's hoiHy^orft.

Thus Ihc refted on her arm reclin'd.
The hoary willows waving with the wind. Addijon.
2. White or grey with age.

.

Arbutbnit'i

White ;

.

,

Hoa'r.]
1.

.'

Thofe grave

'f

HO'.ARY. a<^'. [hap. hapunb, Saxon.

H'ooiiviarj.

To Hoard, -v. n. To make hoards; to lay
op (lore.
He fear'd not once himfcif to be io need,
Norcar'd to ttard Im thofc whom be did breed.

man, who is remarkable tor bis frugality tor the
Jublick, that he fquandera away the nation's mopey;
ul yovi may fakly rela:e tlut be board: it.
.

ride.

Holder.
I had'a voice: in heav'n, ere fulph'rous fleams'
"Had damp'd it to a hoarfenefs. Dryd, King Arthur.
The want of it in the wind-pipe occations boarfeneft in fbe giillet, and difficulty of fwallowing.
Arbuthnot an Alimeuts.

HOAKD. n. f. [honb, Saxon.] A ftore

1.

3.

The voice is fomctimes intiii^liidid by an hoarfi-

Arbuthm,!.

difcloCed.

A ftick on which boys get aftride and

a

.;

'-

^^, or vifcous phlegm.

See

Hobbler.

nefs of voice.

of the"wilderners there lay a ImaH round thiog, as
ftnall a» the haar-fiofi on the grtjiind. ^xoJ. ivi. lij.
In Farcnheit's thermometer, at thirty-two degrees the water in the air begins to freeze, which is

a pacing horfe; a garran.

horfe;

Ho'arskness. n. f. [from Acc//^.] Rough-

.

When the dew Was gone op, behold Upon ttie face

hoar-fi'Jis.

With

.

hobin,Vr.

;

An Irifh or Scottifh

a pacing horfe.]

;

.

[Hcppe, Gothick, a horfe

2.

rough harfh voice.
The hounds atutarer.dillanfe-&i?n/J/>' bay'd
The hunter clofepurfa'i the vilfionary maid. Dryd.

Hoar-frost, ff./. [Aoflr and yV^.] The
congelations ot dew in trolly mornings
>

'

'Thomfon.

Ho'aR4ely. ai/-u. \ifx^hiarje.'\

...

%,|aiid dare like. lark&. under the awe ofa.paiutod
hobby.
L' EJlrange.
l.arfcslie dar'd to (hun the hobby's flight. Dryd.

.

-AT

Mournfully ^Mr/i,.

White with froft.

i

'

!', '.-,1;
Dryden.
.y.« .j.i\...
The ftock-dove only thit)ugh the foieft cooes.
..

.

on the grafs.

•\

•

He fpcd his Heps 3lonj_t?ft"A&>/f irflbundifig iTiore.

'

.'
>
Sptnfcr.
ll'C
Now iwamu the populare, a countlefs throng ;
Youth and btar ag^, and man drives m.ia along.
.

-

.

Bacon.

The people will chop, like trouts at an ariiticial

.

.

,

Through wii'iomof a matron'gravc arid I'oar.
.

They have fuch a hoverinj psfleflion of the VaU

That croaks the fatal enterance ot tluni;an
Under iny battfements.
Shaiefp. Macbeth.

I

French.]

toline, as an hobby bath over a lark.

.

'

\I.iobereau,

A fpecies of hawk.

1.

Clap into't rouiidl^, without hawking or fpi'ti:
SbjJkjp.
ting, or Ikying w«aee^j[<«>/>.

'* Baffling,'likelhy'£i><ircliSi> the loud lea wave.

'

Cly ; aukwardly ; with a halting gait.

Ho'bby. n /.

Come, lit, lit,- and^a fon^,

"Fairfax.

3.

Ho'ebmncl-y. ffi/x'. [from hobbleJ] Clum-

;

<

IfUndof Mifs, all alTaiillS

\r

For twenty babblers armed, Iriihmen fo called,
becaufe they ferved on hobbies, he paid lix-pence
a-piece per diem.
Dairies.

'.

;

A people,.

.

•

He grows a wolf, his hoarinefs remains.
And the fame rage in other memben reign--. Dryd.
HOARSE, adj. [hap, Saxon hrerfch,
Dutch.] Havirig the voice rough, as with
having a rough found.
a cold

Drjder,.'

Whom Ireland (cm ixoqiloujbs and iofK^i-hnx.

z.

'-

hair.

HOAR. adj. [han, Saxon.]
I.

Ho'bbler; »./. [from /?'oi4)'']

of being whitiihi ; the colour of old men's

'c

owm that ragged Ihtep.

'

O.ie of his heels is higher than the other, whkH
CuUiver's Travelt,
gives him a bobble in his gait.

iand vifcous matter is the caufe ; but it is now litile
Hill.
ufed.

>Wh«n 1 cried iaa !
Like K«y'> '''"S' wou'il ft"' forth, and cry,
lour « if"
.
^
J,
-I ..I
f.i\, rXai.n, what Ihepkrd

HOC

HOB

HO A
•'

HOG

HOI

of thjt md one of tart new cyder together.

A plant

Ho'cKH ERB. •./. \hock and herb.]
the ftme with mallows.

Aiu/xoorth

X» Ho'crtE. <v. a. [from had,"] To ham
ftring; to cut tlie

Broome.

.

.

.

Mi£»)iad, fonhe Inggijh (hrewihscfs of
her brain, and Mopfa, for a very unlikely eovy.
'S\iff icion

this

word is referred by Tittotfon to a form of

RomLA church.

Junius derives it
If Oil) hocced, W^Ifh, a cheat, and pfke and
p'Cui, a bag, jugglers nfing a bag for

JStxiht'*
If 'twas an ifland where they found the QkII',
they flraightways concluded that tlie whole ifland
lay originally at the bottom of the fea, v^nd that it
was hoijhd up from fomc va^iour from beneath.

;

tJatimer.

[The original of

GAtk.

felfilh'

HOCUS FOCUS.
the

rfte

'Ho'corsH. <?^'. [from hog,] Having the
brutith ; greedy ;
quiilities of an hog

fiuews abou.t't}ie haju

or hough.

HOL
S»ze him, take, boifi him vp, break off h.«haU>
And tofs him headlong fcom the t«mplc'> » nil.

•••^nm'MutM'highfd and cowkeep«rare oiM lobe
ufed in ourjioclry , but there arc no tiner words in

•

Sidney.

H o'c G

s

I

G ree-

H L Y. adv. [from higgJ/b.}

dily;

tt'ood-ward's Natural HiJIsry.

Hold, in the old glolTaries, is mentioned
in the fame fenfe with luold,

i. t. a governoor or chief officer bat in fome other

felfifhly..

;

places for love, as holdUc, lovely.

Ho'ccisHNESS. «./ [from hogg'ji.] Brutality ; greedinefs ;

Gibfon's Camden,

feliilhncfs.

Ta HOLD. v.

con«yancc. It is cormpted from fome
words that had onoe a meaning,, and
which perhaps caanot be difcoverea.] A

Ho'tJSBEANS.

juggle ; a cheat.

Ho'g s f e n n e l. n.J. \hr>g and fennel. ]

1

Ho'gsbread.
> n.f. Plants. Ainf<w.
Ho'ctMlJSHROOMS. J

Thit gift oi hccus focujpng, andofdirguiBng mat-

A

he/dor ho/Jen. [Zi<iA/<7//, Gothick ; ))alT)an,

Saxon ; henden, Dutch.]

To grafp in

1.

plant.

flOD. ti.J. [corrupted perhaps in contempt Ho'oSHEAD. \hts^'^^head.'\
'

"from hood, » hod being carried on the
head.]
A kind of trough in which a labourer carries mortar to the mafons.
'Tujpr.

Ho'dmak. n.j. [jE>»«and man,\ A labourer
Thofe that

A fi(h.

caft their

(hell

are the lohfter, the

crab, the crawfiib, and the bodmandei or dodman.

Baccn.

HoDGE-PODCE.

2.

n. /.

A

frey. ot boJge-feJgfof all other fpeechet.

Sfntfrr.
It prodttcrs cicclleot corn, whereof the Turks
make tlie trachana, and bouhourt, a certain bodgeS.indyi^i T'raz'eis,
^Oi/^tfof fuudry ingredients.

Of

to-day.

Hoe. It./, \houe, French; howwe Tiaid^.]

which, the blade is at right angles with
the handle.
Mortimer.
They ftiould be thinned with a hoe.

Vo HeE.

\houer, French; hatewen,
-v, a.
Dutch.] To cut or dig with a hoc.
They muft be continually kept with weeding and
Martimtr.
homg.
HOG. «./[/E>at;<r/?., Wellh.]
I. The general name of fwiiie.

draw the bellows, rtop the hole.
'I'hcy iluuj up one of their largeft hogjheads :
drank it off j for it did not hold half a pint.

if we {row all

10 be pork-eaters.
Sbuktff.
The bogy that plows not, nor obeys thy call.
Lives on (he labours of this Lord of all.
Poft.

z.

A caftrated boar.

3.

Ho bring Hocs

to

a fair market.

To

of one's defign.
You have brought your begs to a^nt market.

fail

Spellator.

4.

Hog is ufed in Lincolnfhirc for a,fheep
of a certain age, I think of two years.
Skinner.

A

Ho'ccote.

houfe
tt.f. \hog and «/<.]
for htjgs ; a hogity.
Out of a fmall hogcote fixty or eighty load of
Mortimer.
dung hath been raifcd.
two year old ewe.
Ho'coEHEU »./.
Ainftxxrth
HocH. n.J. [otherwife written ho, hew, or
hough, from hoogh, Dutch.]
hill ; ri-

A

A

fing ground ; a cliff.

Obfolete.

That well can witnefs yet unto this day.

The wcflcni bogh, befprinki'd with the gore
fairy ^ueen.
Of tnighty Gocmot.
Ho c H e R u . «. /. [hog and hyjib, a keeper. ]
keeper of hogs.

A

;

In vain he feeks, that having caaiiot bitd.
Fairy ^ueen.
Prove all things ; bold fad that which is good.
i 'nef. 1.

The place

without a Ihoe or Docking to their feet, or a heul'e
Swift.
fo convenient as an Englilh hogjly.

The
\hog and lua/h.l
draff which is given to fwine.
Your butler ptirloins vour liquor, and the brewer
fells you hcgwajlj. Arhutbnot's Hijl. of John Bull.
[hoedeu,

Welfh

fama,

Latin.]

An

Thou

my heart and me

;

Sbakef^are.

to judge with regard to

praife or blame.
I boldhim but a fool, that will endanger
His body for a girl that loves him not.
Shah/f,
One amonglf the faircrt of Greece,
holds
than
hiseafe.
Sbak.
That
his honour higher

This makes thee blefled peace fo light to bold,
Like Summer's flies that fear not Winter's cold.
If,ld(\ich in reputation.

al-

A^s xxvii. 40.
I'hat man which prizcth virttie foritlelf, and cannot endure to boife and Itrike his fails, as the divers
natures of calms and fforms require, mull cut his
fails of mean length and breadth, and content himRaleigb.
feif with a llow and fure navigation.

What made Abfalom kick at all the kindnelTcs of
his father, but becaufe his ambition would needs be

into his fa-

South.

We thought for Greece

with

I

rheir navy fwarms upon the coalb : they ciy

Dryden.

us, if we

held his

company and conference
Bacon.

agreeable.

As Chaucer is the father of Englifh poetry, fo I
Wi^liim in the fame degree of veneration as the
Orfc\inf held Homer, or the Romans Virgil. Dryd.
Ye Latlan dames, if any here
Dryden.
Hold your unhappy queen Amata dear
!

To receive, and keep in a veffel.

7.

She tempers dulcet creams, nor thcli: to bold

Wants her fit vcffels pure.

Milttit,

To contain; to receive into its capacity:

8.

as, a hoglhead hc/ds fixty-three gallons ;

the fack

To keep

9.

too little to ho/d the grain.

is

not to fpill.

;

, Broken cirterns that can bold no water.

10.

To keep

;

yet cm.

to hinder from efcape.

For this internal pit ihall never hold

Milton,

Cclellial Ipirits in bondage.

To keep from fpoil

1 1

;

to defend.

With what .irms

We mean to t-Jd what anciently we cbiia
Ofempire.
12.

The fails v<:n hoijled, and our fearsreleafe. Dryd.
They boift him on the bier, and deal the dele,
Dryden' s Per/.
And there's an end.
What hafte Ihe made to iw)? her purple fails
And to appear magnificent in flight.
Drew half our ftrength away.
Dryd. AllforlMve.

i'hillifs.

He would make us amends and fpend fome time

To

raife up on high.
'Tis the fport to have the engineer boijl up with
Sbakejp. HamUi.
bis own petar.
Join you with me ;
We'll quickly hoift duke Humphrey firom his feat.
Shakeff.
Woj/i-fail, and fly;
Cbafman.
And in thy flight aloud on Gratis cry.
Auria had boifediii\, and was on his way toward
K/rJles't Uifiory.
the bay of Naupadus.
They loofed the rudder bands, and hoijed up the
mainfaii to the wind, and m<kle toward fhore.

To boijl their anchon, but the gods deny.

To think of

6.

J

ther's tiirotie ?

as a llrangcrto

I

to regard.

Fairfx,

French.]

him

;

Hold ihcc from this for cvei.

ways difcovered, upon examining, that they had been
Suift.
koidenirg with the young apprentices.

fingering the fccptie, and boijling

Re^.

To conlider

5-.

To

Some of them would get a fcratch ; but we

'I'v, a. \haiiffer,

hart there them that hold the doflrint of

Balaam.

fcemina
;
ill- taught

aukward country girl.
To Ho'iDEN-u. n. [from the noun.]
romp indecently.

To maintain as an opinion.

4.

Ho'gwash. ». /.

». /.

to gripe faft; not

to let go.

1

in which fwine are put to be fed.
The families of farmers live in filth and naftinefs,

;

Too late it was for Cityr to be told,
Or ever hope recover her again

Gulliver's 'Travels

Ho'csTY. n.f. [hog and fy.]

To keep; to retain

3.

B.icon.

7e HoisE.
9~e Hoist.

to keep from feparation.

;

The loops beid oae cuilau to anotlier.

Jhead, putting into it before, that which you would
have preferved ; and in the inliant that you with-

An inftrument to ctit up the earth, of Hu'lDEN.
le--Mcris

Thii will raife the price of hogs,

Suakej'f.

To conneft

2.

Exod. xxxvi. t3.

[hache , pochi , hoche-

medley
fttyifiz&yhacbisinpot, French.]
of ingredients boiled together.
They have made our EngliOi tongue a gallimau-

Hosit'itiAL. adj. {hodiernusi'Lalm.']

Than keep in peace that hand which thou do'ft^o/i/.

Any large barrel.
Blow ftrongly with a pair of bellows in a iog-

that carrirs mortar.

Hodmando'd. »./.

that every jugeruin of vines yielded
urns of wine: according 10 this proportion, our acre Oiould yield fifty-live bag/headf, and
Ariuib/:ot.
u little more.
tells,

fix hundred

A fotk and a hook to be tampering in ciay,
A lath, hammer, trowel, a bid or a tray.

Genefn.
France, thou may'll bold a ferpcnt by the tongue,

A falling tyger f.ifcr by tlie tooth,

three gallons.
Varro

hand: to gripe; to

Lift up the lad, bold him <n thy hand.

A meafure of^liquids containing fixty-

1.

the

clutch.

L'ZftroKge.

ters, is (urprifing.

a. preter. he/d ; part, paff.

Milttn,

To keep from lols.
Man fhould better bold his place

By wildom.
13.

Miiton.

To have any Ration.
The ftar that bids the (hcjilierd fold ;

Now the top of hcav'o doth bold.

Miltcn.

And now the Itrand, and now the plain they held ;
Their ardent eyes witli bloody llrcaks were fill'd.
Drydtn.
Obfetvc

HOL

HOL

Obfcrve the youth who firft appears in fight.
And MJt the iKirell lUiion to the light. Dryden.

To poffefs

14.

to have.

;

HiUmg Corioli in ihe name of Rouei
Even like a fawning greyhound in the leafli.
Shahfp.
To let him flip at will.
The Cdllle, holJfn by 3 ^ rrifon of Germans, he
commanded to be befiegcd.

Knollrs'i Hijlory.

more ih-ime for a mail to lole that
which he ielJnb, than to fail in getliog that which
Hajut/ard.
he never had.
AtTuredJy

it is

15. 1 o pofTefs in rubordination.
He was willing to field himfelf unto Sotyman «s
~

ki> valTat, and of him to b'Jd hit feigniory for a
yearly tribute.
Kr.dles.

The terms toohard by which I was to hold

The good.

of nature and ncceility.
Death what do'a ! O hold thy blow
What thou do'it, thju do'll not know.
I

Toftop;

Bacon.
Crt\Jhatu,

to reArain.

fell, banning hag I inchantfsfti m/^ thy longut.

Break forth at once.

fValltr.

Utiicfsthou find occalion, h^d ihy tongue ;

Thyfelf or others, carelcfs talk may wrong. Dertk/m.
Hold yoM- laughter, thea divert yovr fellow,
fervaois.

;

32. To Hold yir/A.
forward to view.

hav< lately f«ld my cag, andihoneftly told his
which is, that he became fuch a lover
of libert)f, that I could fcarce hold him in.
Sivifi.

Hold

I

To Hold

»ar.

To retain

UTilto*.

Not tointirmit.
to celebrate.

The i)ueen this day here holdi her parliament,

Hold out. To extend; to ftretch

He irU « Icaft lo his houle like (he feaft 01
!('«•

I.

a

Sm.

The King held oat to Eftber the golden fceptie
that was in his hand.

38.

To Hold out.

does, we Oiall fee whether it will hold or no4

£/lb. v. 2.

To Hold out.

Numi. m. 7.

To manage; to handle intelleauaily.

Some in their difcouile dcfire rather commendation of wit,
being able 10 told all arguments,
than of judgment in difceming what is true. Bucen.

m

To oiainiain.

Locke.

This feems lo botd'm moft cafes.

Addifon.

The analogy bMs good, and precifely keeps to
the fame properties in the planets and comets/

Cheynt.

He cannot long hold out thefe pangi,

>

Sanflorius's experiment of perfpiration, being to
th ioiher fecretions as five to three, does not hold io

Th' incetlani care and labour of bis mind. Sbaktff.
40. To Hold t<f. To raife aloft.
does he not bold up his
1 Hiouid remember him
head, as it were; and Itrut in his gait>
Hhakrjp.
The hand of ihe Almighty vilibly htld up, and
prepared tv take vengeance.
Lrjtke.

Hold tip. To fuftain

;

this country, cJKcpt in the hottcit time ot Summer.

Aihuthnot on Aliments,
In words, as falhions, the fame rule will W</;
if too new or old.
I^ope.

'W-if. vi. 51.

o carry on conjunftively.

TbePharifeesi«/rfacouncilagainfthim.;W«rrirtu.
A while difcoutfe ihcy bold.
Miliwi.

To profecute ; to continue.
He came 10 the land's end, vvhere he balding his

eourie towards the Well, did at lepglh peaceably pafs
Al/iil.

Alike fantaftick,
2.

To continne unbroken or unfubdued.

3.

To laft

fee, by ihe peeling of onions,
fubftance the (kin is.

what a holding
Bucon,
Never any man was yet fo old.
But hpp'd his lite one Winter more might hold.

or lets himfcIf Hide to vicioufnefs.

Sidney.
followeth, that all which they do in this foil
procredeth originally from fomefuih agent as knoweib, appoinieiii, holdttb up, and adiually framcth

Shaktfp.

We

1 here is no man at once either excellently good
or extiemcly evil, but glows either as he haldi himfelt »^ in virtue,

Our force by land hath nobly held.
to endure.
;

to fupport

Denbam,

It

tlie fame.

Whereupon ihey alfo made engines againll their
eoginci, and ield them battle a long feafon.

i^cke.

diiies.

Ben fonfin.
continue to do or

To

.

The rule holds in land as well as all othei coristo-

To offer; to propofe.

by influence or contrivance.

She laid, and i*/rf her peace : /Encsti went,
l/'nknowing whom the r«ied flbyl meant. Drjdrn.

lk(«u^ ttu fttiUtl.

39.

41. To

not to infringe.

Her hulUnd beard ii, ud held his peace.

30.

per for the colouring as ihe defign j but it will hold
forhoth.
Dryden.
Our author offers no reali>n ; and when any body

forth.

:

But little thinks we (hall be of her council. Sbaltrfp.

1

As it th' eiperiment were made to hold
for bafe produflioii and rejedt the gold.
DryJkn.
This remark, I mutt acknowledge, is not lo pro-

fuffer.

Seed-time and harvett, heat and hoary froft,
Shall tiJd [heir courfe.
Milton.

29.

South.

The

pro*erb holds, that to be wife and love,
It hardly granted to the gods above. Urydtn's tables.

Sau»der/on.

37. To

Stillingfleet,

It holds in all operative principles wliailoever,
but efpecially in fwch as relate to jnorality; in
which not to proceed, is certainly to go backward.

Fortune boldt out thefe to you as rewards.

Eternal anarchy.

„,

images amoogU Chrittiaiis.

to pro-

j

IftheObidieoce challenged were indeed due, then
did our brethren both begin the quarrel and bold i 1 on.

Nigl.t

aS.

The reafons given by them againft the worilnp of
images, will e<}«iiUy hold agamlt the worlhip of

trafl;

And chaor, ance^ors of nature, bold

;

The drift of this figure holds good in all the parts
of the creation.
L'Ejlrange.

to

KnolUi^S Hijtory.

to continue.
;
Thcfe reafbnsmov'dhcr ftar-like hufband's heart
But (Vill he hild his purp^fe to depart.
Drjdcn.
22. To praftife with continuance.

27.

To continue

More.

This unfcen agitation of the mioute parts will
hold in light and Qiirituous liquors.
Boyle,

Pofe f S-aiift.

make one fee him truly.
36.

a friend,

1 f/dr. jiii. 14.

To conferve

Oi'^ks-.

ab&nce

affiiSion :

make

To detain j to keep in confincinenc or

;

they deceive.
Bacon.
VVheie outward force conftrains, thefentence holds
j
But wl^oconfttains me >
Milttn,
None of his folutions will hold by mere mecha-

Shatefp. Othello.

to pu(h forward.
They took B.irbarofi'a, holding on his covirfe to
Atrkkj wbo beought great fear upon the countiy.

fubjeiflion.
Him God hath raifcd up, having loofed the pains
of death, becaulc it was not polEble that be Oiould be
btldnio{\t.
Aa$.

a6.

for

when the hahnefs of the protetifcrs of

Sacon,
Nothing can be of greater ufe and defence to the

am the better acquainted wiik you iot abfence,

docs but hold off i Iriend, to

oonttary.

miad than the difcoveriiig of the coteurs of good anl
evil, Ihewingin what cafes they hold, and m
what

To

as men arc willi thcnilclves

Md from falling with To weak a wind.

and chefnut, and

to make hinifclf author thereof
j aU whicfc
points held when Mahomet publiOied his law,

To
keep at a diftance.
of.
Although 'tistii that Calfio have his place ;
Yet if you pleal'e to hild him ojft while.

You fiiall by that perceive liim.

oak, elm,

fpirit,

To cedtain in general.

Thefe mens lul\!ne<i the. wariet fort of you doth
not commcDd ; ye wilh they had held themfelves
daagcroally liuwa abroad
loogci im, ami nfjl
Hooker,

35.

as

and full of fcandal, and wfthd
the times he Uupid, ignorant, and barbarous,
you
may doubt the fpringing up of a pew fcdi; if then
alfo tliere (hould arife any extravagant and ftrange

hM

to five.

To fo.'emnize

difcords, and

greatclt fault,

7«UoLDr«.

body;

religion is decayed,

by theb.-idle.

34.

ot

Bktc^n.

to govern

;

Hooker.
Bacon.

When the religion formerly received is rent by

Ck'yn'.

To reilrain

hard.

this holdeti in trees ; but in herbs it is often

!

Slai.

iUd ftill the HooU, 'till (hey were palled over.

25.

largelt

How joyful and pleafant a thing it is lo have a
33. To Hold in.

is

This htldilh not in the fea-coafts.

The lafting of plants is molt in thofe that are

To protend ; to put

eycdireftly, without aoy interception; nheieas
(he cuvt of iht ear doth
<^'ibe found a little
from the organ.
Bacon.

That it will i|uickly drop: my day is dim. Siais/f.
30. To confine to a certain (late.
The Moft High then ihcwcd figns (or them, and

24.

To fay that fimply an argument, taken from
man's authority, doth hold ao way, neither affirmatively nor negatively,

holds forth a natural interpretation of his
iVoodviard.

it

The objet'l of fight doth (trike upon the pupil of

Suy but a little ; for my cloud of dignity

22.

that

Boyle.

•

To ftand ; to be right ; to be without
exception.

1

tlie

His gracious piumile you might,

19. To keep

and polilhed.

My account is fo far from interfering with Moles,
fenle.

materially.

To Hold. 1;. ».

Lcckf.

truths.

Sv/ifi.

To fix to any condition.

As caufe had call'd yoj up, have i:>'/i^him to.

21.

and ol his kingdom.
Temfle.
Obferve the connexion of ideas in thepropofitions,
which books bald forth and pretend to teach as

;

of marble take and hold up another, having purpofely caufed their fiat furfaces to be careftilly ground

&

When ftrait the people, b/oo force compcU'd,
Nor longer from their inclination Irtd,

la

Chriftianity came into the world with the greateft
and language, as welt as life

and manners, holding Jbrth nothing but piety,
charity, and humility, with the belief of the Mefliah

To keep from falling

We have often made one corifiderably thick piece

1

I

We cannot Md mortality's ftronc hand. Sbake/f.

18.

42.

limplicity of thought

light held \i% forth from heaven to dize^ ourlteps

Men in the midli of their own blood, and fo furiOoHy aliailed, held their hands, contrary to the laws

Ijl.

HOL

To offer, to exhibit

To propofc.

Milton.

To fufpend; to refrain.

l5.

31. To HoL D forth.

Hooker.

The time miforder'd doth in common fenfc
Crowd us, andcruni us to ihismonlhcnis form.

To held our fafety up.

Shakefp.

And fo fuccefsof mifchief (hall be borne.
And heir from heir Ihall hold his quarrel up. Sbak.
Thofe princes have held up their fovcreignly bell,
which have bce/i fparing in thofe grants.
Dai'iri.

Then do not ftrike him dead with a denial,
But hold him lep in life, and cheer his foul

With the faint {limnMhog of a doubtful hope.
Addi/on'i Cato.

4.

To continue without variation.
We out (tate

Hold, as you yours, while our obedience holds.
Milton.
He did not hold in this mind long.
L'EJirange.
refrain.
5.
His dauntlefs heart would fain have held
From weeping, but his eyca rebcll'd,
'D'yden.

To

6.

To ftand up for; to adhere.
Through envy of the devil came death into the
woiid, and they that do bold of his tide do find it.
hi/d. ii. 24.

They mull, if Uicy bold 10 their ptiuciples, agree
that

15 'CW

A<b:Ti
htvc.

,^

'

•,,.[.,.

When GranaJi for your uncle It.J,
You H« by u« rcftor'djiand licetpcU'J.

Dryjen.

.

With the fait fietkled king andbca;;d <>[?<

:
'

'

So vij'rous^rc hit eyes.luchjrays lUty cji'i,
^Dt'jVtn^
So' firnfninent his eagle's Iseaft is-jilad"!.
••'''

To be dependant on.

i

;-

.

,

;

Si amy.

,

The mother, if the houfe telJs of the- lady, liad
bold.

rather, yea and »villflia?e*erfon cunning and

.J
•<;

.,

-Trnflc.

^t'-"

.

•."il.iie.anJ^joA/jofnono. '!/)»></.

6-iMv

S.To-

'^'-

'r.'

'

'

*Ti^ true, t:^!r. TOrccthiT.afcleftTitfe ffng* r
ItlitreforeifeWfrom that-whicB 6pft^wd^!-lli)lgs••
'

'

of.ihemfelvca.

i'.,

I

.-

.

-

i

^^*':

|o. To HoLD/ort*. TAhaKmguej_|»%^k
in publick ; to fet fortlipublickly.,.
A petty conjuior, telling fortunes, heid ifatth Xn
.UEjlranzr.
the market place.
11, foHoLp;//. To refttain one's felt. '
,

am full of the fury of the Lord-: 1 '*m. weary

I

7«vvi. <i.

with AoWi'/^ /«.

12.

,

ToH-OLDw. TofctfntinAiethluckf,

,

in a greatmihy
A duke, playing at h?iard,./^/^'
-

hands (ogethef.

•

9"!!

fj.
•^

-

.

Hold 0^. To keep at a

wiiliout cloiing with offers.

..^7"'/'tliftance

.j

Thefe are

operatfi: with.

Decay nfPUiy.

'

14. To Hold ck. ,To,coati;«ue; not to be
.-,;
intertupted.

bear; ftop; be ftill.

'HM,-ha'. lieutenant—fir— Montano Centki.
men,
Have yfeu forgot all fenfe of place and duty ?

•

^

with great frequency, both liand figuratively, both for manual
and intelleaual agency. The verbs with
which it is oftenell united, are mke, lay,
It is ufed

terally

and hifue.

'till

point of breaking.

0itr,

As there are mountebanks for
mountebanks

Bacon,
the natural body

the politick iody ;

for

lucky in two or three
txpcrimcnts, but want the grounds of fcience, and
Hacon.
therefore cannot htld out.
Truth, fidelity, and juftice, are a fure way ol
nut,
fraudulrnt
arts
hold
when
all
will
thriving, .ind

men that perhaps have been

' THloifm.
and devices will fail.
By an extremely eiaft regimen « confumptive
perfon may bold out for year*, if the fymploms are
'

T

'

.0

n.

Arbulbnoi.

:

Not to yield; not to

be fubdued.
The great mafter went with his company to a
where the -Spaniards, fore charged by Achimetes, had much ado to hold out. Knullrs'^ hiftcry.
place

You think it ftrange a perfon, obfcquious to ihofe
nity.

Nor could the hardeft ir'n hold out
Hudibras.
Againft his blows.
I would cry now, my eyes grow womanilh
But jretmy heart holds out. Dryd. Sfanfjb Fiyar.
The cit.idel of Milan has held out lormcrly, after
AdJiJon.
the conqueft of the rell of the dutchy.
Pronounce your thoughts; are they ftill fixt
it
to
the
?
hght
laft
and
ioWit
ou:,
To
t)r are your hearts fubdu'd at lin til, and vmiught.

By time and ill fuccefs, to \ fubmiiiion,

Addlfon.

certain truth of

washispohcy

another.

1

.

'

'

ft.

f.

Addi/oii.

\h0i4 va^:f<ift.'\

Any

thingwhich takes hol'd; a catch;ahook.
feveral

'r'he

teeth

are

turnilhed

with boldfaJIs

fuitable 10 the ftrcfs that they are put to.

Ray.

Ho'LDlNG.Vy./ [fromW</.]
ieniire; farm.

1.

.

<

Holdings were fo plentiful, and hoMers lb fcarce,
ell was the landlord who could get a tenant.

UK

Carrot.^

'

,'.',n'

';

f metimcs Cgoifies the burthen or
chorus of a fong.
The holding every man (hall biat dsloud
Shakefpeait.
As his ftrong (ides can volly.

2. It

Hole. «./.

[f^ol,

Dutch ; hole, Saxon.

A cavity narrow and long, either per-

I.

pendicular or hprizontal.

'

The earth had not a hole to hide this deed. Shai.

WliiUt in the confidence ofjjrayV,

difpofcd, ih'at it fJiall draw untd
plane, a buUA of fted, which, as
.!:•
to the loadftont, may fall down
ion-,c ijolcf and fo return to ihc place whence

Al.i.i-miiiic is fo

Adiifon.

Myfoul'/ic^Wi/'onthee.
Wp ai'c rtTangcly backward ^Itff-hold of this late,
Alterbuiy.
this only method of cure.

;•,

-..-d

,

'

fi.;.!'

He kept his h'oU,

-

..

W./Uks'i D^doh}.to move.
There are the tops of the mountains, and under
their roots in holes and caverns the air is often deit '•.-^in

Nor loft 'till beauty was decay'd and old.

And love was by polTcflion pall'd and cold. Granv.
2. Something to be held ; fupport.
If a man be upon an high place, without raili or

Power of keeping.

Aa

»../. [^hold vmi forth. '^

.

holdeiforih.

Ho'ldfast.

forwa,rds,

good hold, he is icady to lall.

and

pTeiitifuI,

HuJiirat.'
In powd 'rlhg'tubs tlie ri;(irlt trade.
He was confirmed in this iipiriion upon feeing the

,

3.

.

harangue r j one who fpeaks in publick.
Whence ume tub) Wi/<'ij/or/^ have made

.

O

"Jeremiah.

'
.

Holder fo'rtH

,

fhy mcfty fet me fret,

n fort; a faferefidence.'

;

holders fo fcarcc, as well was the" landlord, who
Carcw,
could get one to be hislenant.

I,ct but them

dividtd into four fingers bending

\6^fx

Ji^rrtt'

to leave

In times paft hpldlngs ^re (o

Rather thou (hould 'ft lay bold upon himj /end him
Todrferv'd dcath^niid a jull punilhmert; Ben Jonf.

and one oppofite to them bending backwards, and of greater ftrength than any of them
fingly, which we call the thumb, to join with them
feverally or united, wheichy it is fitted to lay bold ol
objefls of any fize or quantity.' Ray onlheCreatiin^
Lord,
Yet then, from all my grief,

,

One that holds or gripes any thing in hishand.
The makers and holders 6f plows are wedded to
Moriimrr.
their own particular way.
2. A tenant; one ttiat holds land under

'

The hand Ts

'

]

1.

Hooker.
vk of Cod, and

not tranfpiort that i-aiiSnt-gOfdiinan bay*'*! bis. temVii/iraiige.
per, or make him quit hi8-.*>o/</.
He'fciie'd<lie)Hiuina^piigh with griping ^3/,/,
And rent aw'ay .wuli.c.iTc the ling'rinc gol'd. Diyd'.

'

He (hall deftroy the Itrong holds.

r;

Milton.
Tlnd'cburagc 10 /.iv A-W on- tliis.oocailon.
The devii himlelf, ,when:l.ei loof.? upon Job, could

ftfe'

^

''
'

Ho'lder. n.f. \{iomhold.\

any

Uj2ah put forlb lus baud
2 Sam. vi; 6.
tooi h'Jd o(\U ff rihe oxen (hooTc it.
This is to give him liberty and power :

t-S/ft/'Ji.

no bold behind him;
Sfen/iy.
but make till pl.rin and wafle.
Thefe feparatcd themfelves unto David, inio thel
Chrcn.
bold to the wildernels, men of might.

u .:

:

to .the

he loves, (hould hold ovt fo long agairtft impotlu-

%''•

betwfeen the kiieiftjn rand

A fortified place
.It

.

thiagvthey cannot'/^' /joW on at once.
'.

'

not violent.

17. To Hold out.

.'.

^

beaft or deer.

'lo.

Th* ,wVts o{ the multitude are fuch, that many

to endure.

Before thofc dews that form manna come upon
tree* in the valleys, they diffipale, and cannot Wt'

-

thing ; neither is there any-certain hiJd to be tak.n
of any antiquity which is received by tradition.
Spen/eron Ireland.
{i.,(.

he was upon the very
VEJIrange.

To Hold .c«/. To lajft.;

'

:

Thof« bards delivered no

To proceed.

He held on however,

D. «./. [from the verb.]
The aft of feizing; gripe ; giafp ; feiznre.
1

''

.

All that part which

Hhiji.

Wave upon wave another fea had wrought. Dryden.
9. A lurking place: as, the hold of a wild

Shakeff,

Hold, hold', are all thy empty wilhes fuch
A goad old woman would have/aid as much. Dryd.

1;

iittercft 'and

Now afea into the ia/i/wasgot,

,

1

Ho

,

,

.

'.

the

:

deck.

The general fpeaks toyoa— hold, held, for (liamel

'

Sviifi.

there

-

-

..^.„

.

i.:iifon.

.1,..

Hold of a

•

.

'

an unW!ic«r'«
Let it confirf
fafety to wrong yoB, and then it will be impoffibfe
you can have any hold upon him, btc^ufu th4re is t
nothing left to give hima check, or t6 putintheHja-

'

•

/

/M-^w. *

'

'

^'itli

1

fhoptbecameProteftanls; and fome of their names
are Hill remembered with iaiimy,, on account of enriching their families by fuch facrilegious alienations.

fo are

'

'

"

.

fuielt it,/,( ol

lies

1

-

•"

Over vi,:.

'

.

.

Hold has the appearance of an intenection ; but is the imperative mootL For-

The trade held en for many years after the bi-

16.

,

^"'

'

'

''

i

-v,

-

i

lance againft hit fraht.

There is none that boldeth lu'ith me in there thingx
Daniel.
but Michael.
.

i

TffHoLDew.

' Fear

8>

!

ray, that
does not prevail neithir, fcut with a perverfetoynefs

15.

-

•

,

I

hi^me,

at

ofueceUiivl^; m-,.'!.
!

.

''

'

he rnin'^.
,~

\

1

7V Ho Lb^vi'ft'CFy' adhere to; ta-co-

23.

we mulk be vrooed. to confider them;
vizhMoff.

•

.''

n .. v.ljoiseYjr
are the innoc'ti;
wife; and give foityive /vo mart held af him tham

.

.'.

.

,

Rural recrcu

cefs offhC.tirft (eenls'to-pfcrs upon-I^ie repulatkin of

important enough, and jet

intcrefts

.

,

Pb*(ci'r'inr

,!7'.,

'the latter: fer *hycouMHiot heMdiuf^f
( '" '•
*r.
Collier o/Emy.
i ... ill,.!

;

•

'

.

A(H.

King RichaV
•OfBolingbiok-.

(

'li'ltt^HV-

.

hold

in

'

,1

Cufk)dy.

6.

When tAoftart (hto the Avorld'togeflrw, the fuc-

'

;

•

'

un'o the ncirtdayl '^ '•— ^

•

'

,

'fndker.

DVydrn.
\.i- ihfrr.

21. Tt Hold uji. Not to be foul weather.
.1. .ThougB t^<Kand dark like point appear,
Quoch'Ralph, it may hold uf and clear. lUiihrai.'
32. To Hoi.D.«/. To continue the fame

•'','!

';;:'.;,

Meil *»/</ and profels without ever havlftS t*aI'rtnlned,

.....1

.

:

Pxifon ; ^Hceot
^They lay him in

'

mullet lipi 'h'Jve helprtl only to fupport <bm«' f«w
llout and obftinate minds, which,.wirfiOiittbo afliftancc' of -philofophy, aoald have bttdiip frcity yell

fpeed.

^; Tti tetntaiA an. opinicn.

SMiff-

]

20; 7"^ HbLD «/. To fupport himfelf.
'AH Ihe^ wife fayings wliich philofophfrs coulU

i

',; S 'J:'"',.

MihtH,

Catch; power of feizing.
The law itUH^iet aftotli.-r h^fdofi you.

5.

•

Afhdm.

vlun :<.

-1

-.

..

Ihofc old Gothick cafltesTO»dt at fevcral »!««,
io/dtcgcili. r unly, as it were, by arags and patches. ,
Dryden.
.
,., .,

world bofiJts, myil keep faith amonglt themfelves,
lacic.
or elfcthey'csiinot'Ao.'tfro^/A/'r.

The peat barons-Ka* Hot only gitat rtumbcrs-of
kmghts, but even petty barons h-Jding under them.
7i

My bold of (his new kingdom all depends.
4.

i^jT9\ioi.i* Hgtthtr^ To remain in union.
Even otitliWs ^*n* toM)ci4, who break with all the

The other two were great princes, though hold'n'g
tor«.
of him; men both oi giant-like hugeiicfs and

'

On your vieour now.

Cotli&oaPrjde.

-,

To Hoi D A^^Arfrv'TOibejpined.,

18.

'

".

M

to »\\t'ha/Jltig mil ajainft fo minji ileraiioM
of llatc, it fomelimes pioceeds froiri principlet.

tm> ih«i""''

that dunp haa thcit prbduftJorf Stf*ii^ »»

Bae^n.

Burnet.

tained.

9.

A jierforation; afmallinterflici.ni vacuity.
Look upon linen that has i'mM holes in it: thofe
men ate oMsd deceived io taWhg

hclft appear black,

1

itlet

HOL
Ults

HOL

for fpots of

ink ; and pjinteri, to rfiirefent
iiA/, make ufe of black.
Bsjle.

g.

A cave; a hollow place.

The fouthern wind,

Upon his bloody finger he doth wear

Now by his bollnv whilUing in the leaves,

A cell of an animal.

Foretelsatempeft.

fhence ilfu'd fuch a blaft and hollotu

A tortoife fpcnds all iis days in a bole, with a
houle upon his head.
L'EJlrange.
I have frighted ants with my fingers, and purfued
the""

it was

Hole

is

nfed, unlefs in /peaking of manual works,

leaves

When Alexander firlt beheld the face
Of the great cynick, thus he did lament

But all was falle and boll^-w.

,-

How much more happy thou, that art content
To live within this little hole, than I

I.

t. Pioufly ;

Himtelf, as in the holltnu of his hand.
Holding, obedient to his high command.

The deep abyfs.

Ho'liness. n.f. [from A»^.]

gulariiies.

here appeal unto the pope.
To bring my whole c lufe 'fore his boftnefi. Skakeff.
His boline/i has told fome Engljlh gentlemen,
tlut thofe of our nation (hould have the privileges.

AdJiJt,n tn Italy

Holla, interj. [hela, French.]

A word

httle channels

I

Some far off holla break the filent air.

and the hollo-wing of trees.

To (hou t ; to hoot.
This unfecn judge will wait, and in your ear

:

II o L l A . ]

But I will find him when he lies afleep.
And in his ear I'll holla Moriimet !
&bakefpeare.
Vlhu halloing and what ftir is this to-day. Shak^

Will Ijclltm, rebel, tyrant, murderer.

Dryden

I pafs for a dir.iffcaed perfon
and
becaufe I do not hoot and bdltru.', and

a murderer,"

make a noife.

Fine linen made in Hol-

Addifon,

LT
-LI.. I
Me
with
hii hounds comes holloviine from
the

land.

Some for the pride of Tutkifti courts defign'd
For folding lurbanu fineft bolland bear.

SpeBator.

To Hollow. 1;. n. [This is written by
neglcdl of etymology for holla.
Sec

To cry out loudly.

Ho'lland. n./.

nable.

Makes love with nods, and kneels beneath a table.

Dryden.

Ho'llow. adj. [from ht.le.']
I,

Evacuated; having a void fpace within
not folid.

•

'

It is fortune's ufe

Hollowly, ad-v. {From hollo'w,]

To view with h'.llm, eye and wrinkled brow
An age of poverty.
Sbakrfp. Merchant ;/ y.„ic.
Some fearch lor bolUtu trees and fell the woods.

river iQand ;

2.

Unfaithfully; infincerely; difhoneftly.

O earth, bear witnefs.
And crown wharl profcfs with kind event,
I

fpeak true ;

it hollowly

groundj

W«e*o//«'wrow'nwithclamoutitmeaioun<l. Dry J

Mmimer
Ainf'vmth.

mountain.

The ilex;

2.

or if the place be not fuch,
fignifies alfo a hill,
or

word

Gibfon's

Camden,

the evergreen oak.

Under what tree did'ft thou take
them companying together ? who anfwered,
under a holme tree.

The carver i»/mf, the maple fcldom inward
-

'

t_r

Holocaust. ». /

„f
[ox<3^

^ind.'

Spenfer.

A

and ««.«..]
of which ^the
whole was confumed by fire, and
nothing retained by the oftercr.
burnt facrifice; a

facrifice

Ifaac carried the wood for the
facrifice, which
being an bolocauji, or burnt-offering,
to be conaflics, we cannot well conceive
a bur.
then fora boy.
g^^^^
l.etthe eye behold no evil thing,
and it

fumed unto

is

made

a lacnhcc; let the tongue fpcak
no filthy word,
and It becomes an oblation ; let the
hand do no
unlawful aflion, and you render it a
holocauft. Ray.
Eumencs cut a piece from every part
of the
viaim, and by this he made it an bolocaug,
or an

Broome.
n. f.

\ix^ and yf«(^»..]

This word is ufed in the Scottith law
to denote a deed written altogether
by
the granter's own hand.

Ho LP. The old preterite and participle

invert

What bert is boaded me, to mifchief
You (hall arraign your confcience.
And trv your penitence, if it be found,
Or hollowly put on.

Sbake/p

I

Hefrtis. he fumes, he flares, he ftamps the

the fame

entire lacrifice.

With cavities.

It

their durable.!

Holme or hotunu, whether jointly
ot
comes from the Saxon fcolme;
a

Holograph,

1.

To let the wretched man outlive his wealth.

Vol. I.

\.

To

Trees, rudely io/Zotj,'^, did the waves fuftain,
Erefhipi in triumph plow'd the watry plain. Dryi
Multitudes were employed in the finking of wells',

Milton.

poppies for

Holme, n.f.

ot

/« Ho LLOw. T. a. [from the noun.]
make hollow ; to excavate.

hear

y« Holla, t/. n. [from the interjection.
This word is now vitionfly written hollo
by the bcft authors fometiroes halloo.}

the aque'^''•^'f'"' O" Ualy.

.

,

It

lingly,

mto the main bollov

_<'"5-

Rofemallow.

in

HOLLYROSE. \
, _,
*•/• Plant*.
Ho'llytre«.
J

The little fprings and rills are conveyed through

nfed in calling to any one at a diftance.
lift !

Addifon.

Thomfon

every refpeft larger than
the common mallow,
^-11^^

J. Paffage; canal.

1

Lift,

monly called Ao/jaaf]

He touched the hollo-w of his thigh. Cen.xxii. ac.

The title of the pope.

Cav.

Hollyhock „.y; [)5ol.]pec. Saxon, com-

Any opening or vacoity.

to religion.
3.

Prior,

uncommon and

agreeable a fcene.

4.

laft.

Some to the holly hedge
Neftling repair, and to tlie
thicket fome;
borne to the rude proteifHon of
the thorn.

ornamental.

A fine genius for gardening thought of forming

Rigeri.

he {late of being hallowed ; dedication

Miller.

"olyocki far exceed
nels and are very

3. Pit.
an unfightly btltnu into to

with white.
B
raire
t bloifonu drop with
every blaft;

But the brown beauty will like hollie,

Forelts grew

Inch

there are fe-

fome variegated in the leaves, fome

ytllovv bernes, and fome

IS

Upon the barren iellawi, high o'erfliading
The haunu of favage beafts.

_

'1

veral fpec.es;

Shakefp.

?

round, and ge-

"•* "'''"'' """'"'"g four triangular
\
^ cfeeds
m each. Of this tree

Who art thou, that lately did'ft defcend

We fee piety and h^linr/i ridiculed as morofe fin2.

p„v.

Into this gaping hoilatv o{ the earth

A plant.

[Jjoleyn. Saxon.]

^K a, ted
/h-

Cavern; den; hole.

2.

1. Sanftity; piety; religious goodnefs.
HI it doth befeem your hoUnrfs
To feparate the hulband and the wife.
Shakefp.
Religion is rent by difcords, and the bol'meft of
the profelTors is decayed, and full of fcandal. Bacon.
Then in full age, and hoary holinefs.
Retire great teacher, to thy promis'd blifs.
Prior,

A
.t

^'""' "" ^-lE" «"'h longflharp,
m"" "t
^"l
the berries are fmall,

ftiff
nri
ft.ffpnckes:

Denbam.

Friendlhip, a rare thing, in princes, more rart
between princes, that fo balilji was obferrcd to the
)aft of ihofe excellent men.
Sidney.

'hey will

=11>

a- r

Holly, r,, f

Cavity; concavity.

Whilft from the bollovis of his womb proceed
Groans, not his own.

Sbakefftare.

2. Inviolably ; without breach.

'

»''"°ft

plant.

Sbakefpeare', King Lear.
1 fuppofe there i> fome vault or ballu-w, or ille,
behmd the wall, and fome palVage to it.
Bacon,
Againft the horfe's fide his fptar
He throws, which trembles with enclofed fear;

:

<"

HoLLowRooT. „.j. Ihdlt^ and m/.]

Hudiiras.

Efcap'd the hunt.

Alt not without ambition; but without
The illnefs Ihould attend it what thou would'ft
highly,
That wouldlt ihou bollly.

?"'."'''

then rinV.h/"f

And by the happy holloiv of a tree

with fanctity.
Thou would'lt be great,

f^'

' "/"!"'' '^"«8ift of God, and that
heonfvlL
he
only who made hearts can
unite them.
S.utb.

I've heard myfelf proclaim'J,

Ho'lilv. ad-v. [from ^o/y.]

Deceit; infincerity;
treachery.

Sh,,,

Hotvel.

Ho L LOW. tt.f.

Sbakejf.

.

''"l

The bollmihearted, difalTeiaed,
And clofe mal ignants arc deteaed.

Hanmer.
By my bolidam, here comes Cathariiw.

.-

withm them, though they he dry f.b-

-^

"''"redf think
itaneafv ,l°""!'"'*"T'
'" ^'"" '°"=' ^"^ «'='«'" their own
frie^d!h[^
r^
e"«nenf/o, rK'"'"n.'" ""X man's: but when
..''"'/„*'"'" "•"" 'hehardnefsof
¥^'f^'"f of others, and the
Minefs /nH

Milton.

crooked hollo-wheartej dealings ?

Blefled lady.

e

1,

<<»

Norarerh"f^'*'^'"^u''"'*°" "« 1°^' '>>" l^^r
P')'"!'""':'!, whofe low found
Reverb,
t ?f
'"^''^"'f^^bahfpeare'. King Lear.
Peoo e

Dilhoneft ; infincere ; of praftice or fentiluent differing from profeilion.
What could be eipeded from him, but knotty and

Tickling is tnoft in the foles, and under the armBacon.
bolet and fides.

An

Hakeviill.

(Unces

Ho'l LowH E A RT E D. a^-. [M/inv and iS^ar/.

Who after empire, that vain quarry, fly. Dryden.
Ainfaiorth.
6. Some fubterfuge or (bift.
7. Arm-hole. The cavity under the (houlder.

place!

2.

Ba:sn.

IT
He
feem'd.

'"''"'

"P ^y ^ ft™"e ^i»<i.
""I'
'"""""^
^'^' empty bollo-uTnefs in the

that , hi.'/""

'''^* "'"S °<"! >"" l>"f all the dinging

with feme degree of diflike.

Ho'lidam n.f. \bolj dame.'l

g^„„,.

roar,

the door.

him his enemy.
Hhakefp. Hamlet,
« ;/ ^^^°^^
chuich papilts are like the roots of nettles,
"ffw

generally

ftate of being hollow.

rr

•

natural for them to fly

Cavity;

•^"^ ^"""''
««P' they^happento
be alitH"
'" "'^ ""'"S. which iJ//«f.
nJrl
,^'f'"^"^
»</^pen„cththea,r.

Shakejfeare.

Dryden.
XT
r Lr .
JNot
•
laithful; not found; not what one
appears.
Who in want a boUo-v., fnend doth try,

AdJiJin.

A mean habitation.

5.

AS thrcaten'd from the hinge to heave

" f'' '3 another hale. Hopping all paliages to

own

neit, and
their
into the next hole.

I.

cavity

A precious ring, that lightens all the bale. Shaieff.
4.

HO L

Noify like found, reverberated from
a

2.

Shakefptarc

Ho'llowhess. n.f. Ifzomhello'w.}

pafliveof iJ^,^.
His great love, (harp as hisfpur, hath holp him
To's home before us.
Sliaktfpearf.

Ho LP EN.
help*

The old participle paffive of

-

HOM

H <^ M

HOM

In a long tninV the found is tolfeH, though loth
the mouth ind the ear be a handful from the irunk ;
and fomcwhat more itifm when the hearer is near,
Bacon.
than when the fpeaker.

The gods great mother, when her heav'nlr race
i)tnham.
Do homage to her.

Holster. «./.r))eolj-teri, Saxon, a hiding-

To this both knights and dames their homagt made.

in order

And due obeifance to the daify paid.

reafoning.

place.]

A cafe for a horfeman's piftol.

In's rufty haljlers put what meat
Into his bofe he cou'd not get,

Butltr,

Holt, whether at the beginning or ending
of the name of any
it is or hath been woody, from the Saxon
or fometimes poflibly
))o1t,
a wood
e. hollow ; efpefrom the Saxon J)ol,
place, fignifies that

A tuftof daifies on a flow'ry lay

magt.']

»'.

Thou blulheft, Antony; and that blood of thine

Good; pious; religious.

The borne thruft of a friendly (word is Cure. Dry^,
I am forry to give him fueh l>ome tlirufts j for he
lays himfclf fo open, and ufcs fo little art to avoid
them, that 1 mult either do nothing or eipofc his

And, doubling that, moft holy. Shahffeare'tCymt.
Hallowed ; confecrated to divine ufe.
State, holy or unhallow'd, what of that ? Sbakiff.
Bare was his hoary head ; one holy hand
Held forth his laurel crown, and one his fceptre.

Though to be thus elemented, arm

To a Uft lodging call their wand'ringfriends.

n.

[hahj

and

Saxon.] The third perfon of the adorable Trinity.

They who pafs through a foreign country, towards their native home, do not ufually give up

The place ot conllant retidence.

3.

Flandria, by plenty made the home of war.
Shall weep her crime, and bow to Charles rellor'd.
Prior.

Lockt.

infpirations of the Haly-gbufi f

Home united

4.

the afcenfion of our Saviour is commemorated, ten days before Whitfuntide.

Holy-week. n.f. The week before F.after,
in which the paflion of our Redeemer is
commemorated.
Ho' L 1 D A Y ». /. [^a/y and a'-T)'. ]
of fome ecclefiallical feftival.
1 . The day

Let the exportation of home commodities be more
Bacon.

One of Adam's children in the mountains lights

HO'MAGE.

magium, low Latin.]
paid and fealty profeffed to a
I, Service
fovcreign or fuperior lord.
Call my fovereign yours,

Sbakefp.
And do him bimagc a obedient fubjeflj.
The chiefs,' in a folemn manner, did their A»-

,

^

.,,

carries

it

to

have a bright
Locke.

your own concern.

H'ake,
;

to the utmofi ;

fidelity to the eatl

Davi.s.

paid by external aca. Obeifancc ; refpeft
tion.

Crafty enough either to hide his faults, or never
to ftipw them, but when they might pay home. Sidney.

With his prepared fwordhc charges is'W
Shakefpeare*s King Lear.

My unprovided body.
A loyal fir
To him thou follow 'll

:

I will

Native; natural.
God hath taken care to anticipate every man, fo

draw him early into his chuich, befure other competitors, homebred lufts, or vicious cuftoms of the
world, Ihould be able to pretend to him.
Hammond.
2. Not polifhed by travel; plain; rude;

uncuhiviiteJ.

Only to me two homebred youths belong* Dryden,
3. DomeiUck; not foreign.
Butif of danger, which hereby doth dwell

Anibomebied evil, ye defire to hear,
Fairy ^ren.

I can you lydings tell.

This once happy land.

By homebred fury rent, long groan'd.
Ho' mkts.lt, adj. [iome andfe/l.']

PhiilipT.

Inward;

private.
Yet they in pleafing (lumber luU'd the fenlci
And in fwcet madnefs robb'd it ot itl'elf;
But fuch a facred and h^mcfelt delight.
Such fober certiinty of waking blifs,
Milton.
I never heard till now.

Happy next him who to thefe (hades retires,

Whom nature charms, and whom the mufe infpires^
Whom humbler joys of bomefelt quiet plcafe,
SuccefTivc ftudy, exercife, and eafe.

Pcft,

Ho'melily. ad'v. \ixom homely.

"^

Rudely;

pay thy graces

Home both in word and deed. Sbakefpeare'i Tempefl.
Sbakefp.
Accufe him home and borne.

Men of age objecfl too much, adventure too little,
and feldom drive bufinefs home to the full period ;
but content thcmfelves with a mediocrity of fuccefs.
Bacon.
That Cometh up hemt to (be bulinefs, and takeih
Sandtrjon
off the objection dearly.

Pla'n-

nefs ; rudencfs ; coarfencfs.

Homer has opened a great field of raillery to men
of more delicacy than greatnefs of genius, by the
homelinefs of fome of his fentiments.
Addifon,

fine ; coarfe ; rude.

Addifon.

To the point dcfigned

[homezn^ bred. ]

fpun; not elegant;

Thefe confiderations, propofed in general terms,
you will, by particular application, bring borne to
4.

adj.

Ho'mely. adj. [ivom hcme.'\

cljfely; fully.

Couiagc is but a bolidjy kind of virtue, to be
Drydin.
feldom CTcrcifed.
n. /. \hommage, French ; ho-

marlhal.

to

To one's own country.

intereft.

am

magc!, and made their oaibs oi

home he

to be hard,

He that encourages trealbn lays the foundation of
a doiilrine, (hat will come 6ome to himfelf. L'Eflr.
This is a confideiation that comes borne to our

'fcap'd love-letters in the holiday
I now a fubjeQ for
beauty, and

,,^

it

3. Clofe to one's own breaft or affairs.

What, ha>e I

A time that comes feldom.

("ubftance;

yellow colour, and exceeding great weight.

2.

Adkyofgayetyandjoy.
**"*'//'•

glittering

Adam, who finds

1.

.

Homeliness, n.f. [from iow^/y]

1

on a

fope.

Ho'xt E B R E D

inelegantly.

Home. adv. [from the noun.]
To one's own habitation.

H'aller.

t'me of roy

fignifies

in value than die importation of foreign.

Home's holidays you tell, as if a gueft
With the old Romans you were wont to feaft.

them?

to a fubftantive,

domeftick, or of the fame country.

.

3. Anniverfary feaft.
This viftory was fo welcome unto the Perfians,
tl»' in memorial thereof they kept that day as one
for many years aftjr.
01 their folemn holy-days
Kitolltt't mjlory.

Atlerhury.

themfclves to thepleafures of the place.

If ftrength of perfuafion be the light which mull
guide us, I alk, how (hall any one diftinguilh the

HoLY-THURSDAY. «.y; The day OH which

Dryden.

And factious fouls are weary'd into peace.

jaj-r,

With homeborn lyes, or tales from foreign lands.

artlefs ;

With honour to his home let Thefeus ride.
Dryden.
With love to friend.
At home the hateful names of parlies ceafe.

Sbaie/f.

Sbakefp. Ant. and CUop.

f.

tiryj.

Shak.
Unlefs abroad they purchafe great alliance ?
Their determination is to return to their tomes,
Sbakefp.
and trouble you no more.

An evil foul producing loly witnefs.

Ho'i.Y-GHOST.

Domeftick; not foreign.
Num'rous bands

His own country.
Howcan tyrants fafely govern Acmf,

2.

4. Sacred.

Like ioty Phabus' car.

Dome.

When Hedlor went to fee
His virtuous wife, the fair Andromache,
He found her not at /w/Bf; far (he was gone. Dryd.
Thofe who have Ai>««, wlienAowc they do repair,

DryJert.

Is like a villain with a fmiling cheek.
He has defer^'d it, were it carbunded

Native; natural.

I.

X.

Sbakeffearr.
Something like home that is not home is to be deTemp/e.
fired i it is found in the houfe of a friend.
Home is the facred refuge of our life,
Dryden.
Secur'd from all approaches but a wile.

South.

SiilUngJInt.

Homebo'kn. adj. \home and btim,\

Which (hall be needful for your entertainment.

ble.

4.

United to a fubUantive> it implies force
and efficacy.
Poifon may be falfe

5.

Thefe creatures iirom homebarn inlriulick harm.

I'm now (com hornet and out of that proviiion

Cod could not be pleafed with any thing cruel ; nor
the taa&boly God with any thing filthy and unclean.

Bnome,

can only refer the reader to the authors ihemfelvej, who (peak very home to the point. Atleriury,

His ownhoufe; the private dwelling.

1.

Commbn fenfe could tell them, that the good

prefs this

weakncfs.

Shakrffeare.
His fubjefts, traytors, are received by the duke 01
Bretagne, his homager.
Bacon'i Henry VII.

Is Casfar's homager,

See where his grace ftaiids 'tween two clergymen !
And fee a book of prayer in his hand
Sbahff.
True ornaments to know a holy man.
With joy he will embrace you ; for he's honoura-

3. Pious; immacularte.

to

I

HOME. «./. [ham, Saxon.]

tion.]

1.

One who

holds by homage of

fome fuperior lord.

HO'LY. adj. [halij, Saxon; htyltigh, Dutch,
from hal, healthy, or in a ttate of falva-

2.

Dryden.

Go, go, with homage yon proud vidlors meet]
Go, lie like dog beneath yojr mailers' feet. Dryden.
To Ho'mace. f. a. [from the noun.] To
reverence by external a£\ion ; to pay honour to; to profcfs fealty.
Ho'mager. n.f. [bommager, Fr. from Ao-

cially when the name ends in tun or dun.
Gib/on.

Addifon,
; and,
home, he makes lefs ufe of

He makes choice of fome piece of morality

They faw, and thitherwaid they bent their way;

;

1.

Break through the thick array
Ol his ihrong'd legions, and chatge bcmt upon hiia,

Plain; home-

not beautiful; not
It is ufed both of

perfons and things.
Each place handfome without curiolity, zni home/y
Sidney,
without loathfomenefs.
Within this wood, out of a rock did rife
A fpringof water, mildly tumbling down;
Whereto approached not in any wife
The homely (hephcrd, nor the ruder clown. Spenfer,
Like rich hangings in an homely houfe,
So was his will in his old feeble body.
Sbakefp,
Be plain, good ion, and homely in thy drift;
RiddlingconfelTiun finds but riddling (hrift. Sbakefp,
Home-keeping youth have ever bomelyw'\l%, Shak,
Our (lomachs will make what's htmcly favory.
Sbakeffeare,
It is for homely features to keep home
Milton,
their
names
had
thence.
They
It is ubferved by fome, that there is none fo
Scutb.
homely but loves a looking-glafs.
Their homely fare difpatch'd, the hungry bai>d
Dryden.
Invade their trenchers next.
Now Strephon daily entertains
Stvift,
His Chloe in the homeliefl drains.
Homely perfoas, the more Uiey endeavour to adorn
themrdvcs,

HO M

~—

themfelves, the more they expofe the JefeflJ they
Clarendon.
want to hide.

HON

O N

II

Thefe nails (hould rend that beauty from my cheeks.

rudely.

Sbakeffeai e

his father, iomf/y dreft,
Drydin.
He ftridcs into the hall, a horrid guett.

Heflor comes, the homicide, to wield
His conq'ring arms, with corps to l>rew the field.
Dryden.

A kind of calf. Ain/iv.

Homici'dal. adj. [from A«»i/V/V<r.] Mur-

Ho'mely. <«/<!<. Plainly; coarfely

;

Thus, like the god,

HoMEUTTN. ti. f.

Home'madb. CT-^'. [home znd made.
at home ;

Made

'\

commodities, makes ihemyield lefsto the firft feller.
Locke.

A Umti oi barley feed (hall be valued at fifty
/.«/. xxviiii. l6.

Ho'm Ksr u N, eidj. [home and^»».]
Spun or wrought at home not made by
1
;

.

regular manufaaurers.
lofteid otio«»f/^<f» coifs were feen

Swift.

Good pinners edg'd with colberteen.

Not made in foreign countries.

2.

He appeared in a fuit of Englifh broad-cloth, »ery
plain, but rich : every thing he wore was fubftantial,

AddiJo„.

ha:ien, homtffun ware.

2. Plain ; coarfe ; rude ; homely ; inelegant.

They fometimes put on when they go alhorc, long
lleevelcfi coats ot' btmefpun cotton.

king.

can contribute no further to his health.

Chafte.
Wives may be merry and yet honeji too. Sbake/p.
3. Juft; righteous; giving to every man
his due.
Tate will fubfcribe, but fix no certain day.
2.

Humiliet were a tliirrt kind of readings ufual in
former times; a moft commendable inftitiition, as
well then to fupply the cafual, as now the necelTary
Hmktr.
defect of fermons.
What tedious homily of love have you wearied
your parilhioners withal, and never cried, have pa-

He's hanrft, and as wit comes in will pay,

There (hould

upon ieftival days, the fubjetl of

Our bmtejpun authors mul> forfake the field.

Homejfu'n.

». /.

A coarfe, inelegant,

rude, untaught, ruftick man. Not in ufe.
What hempen hamtjfuni have we fwaggering here,
Shjkefp.
So near the cradle of the fairy queen (
Ho'mistall. 1 ». y. (})am and j-cebe,
"

Ho'MEJTt.^D. 1
Thehoufe.

Saxon.]

The

place of

Both houte and homtjiead into Teas are borne.

Live honrjity, would rather perilh bafely. Ben "Janfon.
For fome time pall all propofats from private perfons to advance the publick fervice, however bomejlly
and innocently defigncd, have been called flying in
the king's face.
Swift.

Hammond's Fundamentals.

Drydtn.

Ho'mewas.d.

J

adv.

[Jjara

the fame nature or principles; fuitable to
each other.

With chaftity ; modeftly.
Ho'nesty. n. /. [hovejleti,

2.

The means of reduflion, by the fire, is but by

Fr. hontfiatt
Lat,] Juftice ; truth ; virtue ; purity.

Bacon.

congregation oi bmogrneal fitK.
Ice is a fimilary body, and homogeneous concretion,
whofe material is properly water. Bro-wn't l^ul. Er.

Thou (halt not have thy hulhand's lands.
Why, then mine honejly (hall be my dower. Sb.
Goodnefs, as that which makes men prefer theit

An bcmigtneous mafs of one kind is eafily diftingui(hable from any other j gold from iron, fulphur
modward.
from allum, and fo of the reft.
The light, whofe rays are all alike refrangible, I

duty and their promife before their paflions or theit
interciV, and is properly the objcft of truft, in our
language goes rather by the name of bonejly, though
what we call an honeft man, the Ramans called *
good man ; and honrjly, in their language, as well
as in French, rather iignifies a compofition of thofe
qualities which generally acquire honour and efteem.

bemtgtmat, and fimilar : and that,
whofe rays are forae more refrangible than others, I
call compound, hcterogeneal, and diflimilar.

Ne^lon.

and peaftb,

Ho'mewards. J SaxonJ Towards home,
towards the

towards the native place;

;

call fimple,

And nxks are from their own foundations torn.

place of refidence.

Homoci'nealvess. 1 tt, /. [from hcmogeaeous, or he- HO'NEY. n.
>
Homogene'ity.
f. [hunij, Saxon ;
mopeHcal.^ ParHomoce'neousxess. J
Dutch honec, hanag, German.]
ticipation of the fame

Sidney.

My affairs

principles

or na-

I.

ture ; iimilitude of kind.

The mixtures acquire a greater degree of fluidity

Do even drag me ht»nra>ard.

Sbahefptare.
Since fuch love's natural llallon it, may Hill
love dei'cend, and Journey down the hill.
Not panting aftergrowing beauties (a
1 fhallebb on with them who f:ame%i:ard ^. Dtnfte,

My

;

Look bomevardt angel now, and melt with ruth
And, O ye dolphins, wait the haplcfs youth Milton.
Like a long team of foowy fw ans on high,
I

Which clap their wings, and tieave the li(]uid (ky.
Which homnuard from their wat'ry paftures borne.
They fine, and Afia's lakes their notes return. Z/yJ.
What now remains.
But that once more we tempt the wat'ry plains,

And wand 'ring ;ii/<iKTf<ir?i,feek ourfafety hence.
Drydtn.

and fimilarity, or homogeneity of parts. Arbuthnot,

Upon this fuppofition of only difierent diameters,
it is

impolfible to account for the homogeneity or fimi-

Cbeyne.

larity of the fecerned liquors.

Ho'mogeny. »./. [o/*«vi»t*.] Joint nature.
Not ufed.
By the dtiving back of the principal &irits, which
preferve the confidence of the body, nieir government IS dilTolved, and every part returnclh to hi,

Bacon^

nature or bomogeny.

Homo'locoxjs. adj. (homolcgue, Fr. etoiA»-/©-.] Having the fame manner or proportions.

HoMtciDE. »./. [homicide, Fr, homicidium, Homo'kymoi;*. adj. [homonyme, Fr. «/*»lat.]

tviul^.']

Murder; manquclling.
The apoftlcs command

abAain from blood
cenltruc this according to the law of nature, and it
will feem, that homicide only is forbidden ; but conftrue it in reference to the law of the Jews, about
which the queftion was, and it (hall eafier appear to
have a clean other fenfe, and a truer, when we ex.
pound it of eating, and not otihedding blood. Hoeirr,
2.

Deftruftion.
ii

to

In the following lines

it

not proper.

What wonder is'l that black detraAion thrives
The bomicide of nimct iilefii than lives.
Dryden,
3.

Temfle.

honig,

;

Then Urania bomevjord i\i arife,
Leaving in pain their well-fed hungry eyei.

1.

thofe fplrits yet breathe, that when

they cannot

the bemiiy was conftantly the bufinefs of the day.

adj. [hamogene, Fr.
HOMOGE'NEAL.
We fay, in our home/fun EngliSi proverb. He
o>*yi.i».l Having
HOMOGK'NEOUS.
y
Vryden,
killed two birds with one (lone.

And Shakefpeate to the foft Scarlatti yield. AJJifm.

Uprightly; juftly.
It doth make me tremble.

1.

ShakeJ)>iare' t A> you like it.

Sandjt* Tntve/r.

late,

Ho'nestly. ad'v. [from haneji.\

If we furvcy the homilies of the ancient church, we

that,

Temple.

The way to lelieve ourfelves from thofe fophifms,
an bonej! mi diligent enquiry into the real nature
and caufeb of things.
iVattt.
is

A difcourfe read to a congregation.

tience, good people !

Shakeff.

An honej} phyfician leaves his patient, when he

Aiie^hury.

(hall uii'cern

Ta

;

[ioOT;7/>, French ; «/iiMi«.]

Ho'milv. n. f.

Tujfcr,

[jjonjian, Saxon.]

A very boneft hearted fellow, and as poor as the

Social;

homtleiical; not thofe lazy fullcn oncsof the cloyl^er.

,

».

Upright; true; fiscere.
What art thou

1.

converfible.
His life was holy, and when he had leifure for retirements, feverc : his virtues adive chiefly, and

Ho'mer. »,/. A Hebrew meafure of about

t;

pine ; to long for any thing.

Pofe.

A tax laid on your native produ^, and homemade Homile'tical. ci^'. [o/*iA(rruM«.]

'

To Hone,

HO'NEST. adj. [honejie, Fr. honejfui, Lat.]

With homicidal rage, the king opprefs.

(hekelsof fii»er.

A hone and a parer tcKpare away grafs.

The troop forth ilTuing from the dark recefs.

parts.

A whetftone for airazor.

ftone.]

derous; bloody

not manufaftured in foreign

three pints.

Wellh ; Skinner, who is always rational,
from jjacn, Saxon, a (lone ; haenan, to

If I thought that, I tell thee, homicide,

[Homicide, Fr. homicida,
derer ; a man flayer.

Lat.]

A mur-

I'd undertake the death of all the world.

So might 1 live one hour in yout fwcctboTom.

Denominating different things

equivocal : ambiguous.
As words fignifying the fame

thing

ar%

;

called

fynonymuus, fo equivocal woids, or ihnfe which fignify fcveral iliingi, are called homonymous, or ambiguous; and when perfons ufe fuch ambiguous
words, with a defign to deceive,

it is

called equivo.

A

thick, vifcous, fluid fubftance, of a
whitilh or yellowifti colour, fweet to the
and becoming
tafte, foluble in water,
vinous on fermentation, inflammable, liquableljy a gentle heat, and of a fragrant

Of honey, the firft and fineft kind
virgin honey, not very firm and of a

fmell.
is

it is the firft produce of
obtained by draining the
combs without prefling. The fecond it
often almoft folid, procured by preflure :

fragrant fmell :

the fwarra,

and the worfl is the common yello-.v honey, extrafted by heating the combs, and_
In the flowers ot*
then prefling them.
plants,

by certain glands near the bafis,
fecreted a fweet juice,

in the petals, is

which the bee, by means of its probofcis or trunk, fucks up, and difcharges
again from the ftomach through the
moutn into the comb. The honey depofited in the comb, is deftined for the
young offspring but in hird feafons the
bees are reduced to the neceflity of feedHill,
ing on it themfelves.
:

liraiti.

cation.

HoMo'ntmy.
lof/ziit.]

[homonomye.

n. f.

Fr.

iujt-

Equivocation ; ambiguity.

Homo'tonous.

[•^•T«r®-.J Equable;
faid of fuch diflempers as keep a conftant
tenour of rife, flate, and declenfion.
^ittcy.

Hone. n. /.
rives

from

adj.

[This word M. Cafaubon dewcatri
Junius from hogjacn.
;

So work the boniy bees.
Creatures that by a ruling nature teach
The art of order to a peopled kingdom. Shakefpeare.
Touching his education and firft foftering, fome
affirm, that lie was fed by bonty bee*. Ralfigh's liiJI.
In ancient time there was a kind of honey, which,
either of its own nature, or by art, wtiuidgrow at
hard as fugar, and was notfolufcious asours. Bacin.

6 E I

When

ho

fear

Againft the power that bred it.

With ivy canopied, and interwove
Milttn.
With flaunting hnney-Juckle.
Then melfoil beat and honey-faeHes ftmni ;
With ihcfe alluring favours ftrew the ground. Dr^d.

reS)l»ent ofihe bile, balfamick and peroral: hotiry
contains no inflammable fpirit, before it has felt ihc

Ho'neyless.

The ^offry of his language.

3.

But for your words, they rob the Hybla bees.
Shakejp.

[«n»/i&^, Latin.]

To Ileal his fweet and honied fentences.

Milton.

The bait oi honey' d words; a rougher tongue
Draws hithcrward.

Ho'ney-comb. »./. [honey znd comb.] The
cells of wax in which the bee ftores her

2.

Dryden.

and comL]
Spoken 6f a piece of ordnance flawed with
little caviries by being ill caft.

the Romans between fuch honorary arches ere^ed to
emperors, and ihofe that were railed to them on the
account of a vi£lory, which are properly triumphal

Addijonon Italy.
This monument is only honorary, for the alhes of
Addifon on Italy.
Conferring honour without gain.
The Romans abounded with little honorary re-

wards, that, without conferring wealth and riches,
gave only place and diliinflion to the perfon who
received them.
Addifon.

Mortimer.

How honey-dews embalm the fragrant morn.
And the fair oak

with lulcious fweets adorn.
Garth.

Ho'ney-flowek. n.f. [OTfZa»/^««, Latin.]

A plant.

that
cntereih into any aflion, the failing wherein mav
difgrace him more than the carrying of it through

can honour him.

It hath a perennial root, and the appearance of a
Ihrub. 1 his plant produces large fpikes of chocolatecoloured flowers in May, in each of which is contained a large quantity of black fweet liquor, from
Miller.
whence it is fuppofed to derive its name.

Ho'ney-gnat. ff./. [W/w, Latin ; honey
and^»<iA.]

An infeft.

Ho'ney-moon. It./. [homjznA meo».] The
firft month after marriage when there is
nothing but tendernefs and plcafure.
A man ihould keep his finery for the latter feafon
of marriage and not begin to drefs till the honey-moon
is over.

AdJi/ort.

Ho'ney-suckle.w./. [caprifolium, Latin.]
Woodbine.
climbing ftalk, which twills itfclf about
whaifoever tree Hands near it : the flowers are tubulous and oblong, confiding of jpoe leaf, which
epens towards the top, and is divided into two lips
the uppermort of which is fubdivided into two, and
the lowermoll is cut into many fcgments ; the (ube
of the flowers is bent, fomewhat rcfcmbling a
They are produced in clutters,
kur.U'man's horn.
and are very fweet. Miller enumerates ten fpccics,
sf which three grow wild \n our hedges.
Bid her Heal into the pitched bower,
Where honey-Jucklei, ripcn'd by the fun.
It hath a

Forbid the lun 10 coier ; like to favjuiitcs,

Bacon.

The title of a man of rank.

Not now

ufed.

Ketum unto thy lord.
Bid him not fear the feparated councils;
His honour and myfelf are at the one :
And at the other is my good friend Catsthy. Shakeff.

Subjed ofpraife.

4.

Thou happy father.
Think that the deareftgods, whomake them honours
5.

Pope.

The fire then (hook the honours of his head.
And from his brows damps of oblivion (hed. Dryd.
14.. Honour, or on my honour, is a form of
protellation ufed by the lords in judicial
decifions.

My hand to thee, my honour on my promife.
Sbakeffeare.

Dignity ; high rank.
2. Reputation ; fame.
A man is an ill hufband of his honour,
1

3.

leaves, and breeds infefts.

Then here a (lave, or if you will a lord.

Latin.]

Wijeman.

IVotton's Rojnan Hifi.

Civilities paid.

To do the honours and to give the word.
13. Ornament; decoration.

HO'NOUR. »./. [honneur, French; homr,

Ho'ney-dew. »./. \honey and </««.] Sweet
There is a honey-deru which hangs upon their

drian in his infancy.

12.

arches.

the emperor lie elfewhere.

fuddenly again, the

dew.

Rellor'd to me my honours \ and, from ruins.
Made my name once more noble.
Shake/p,
Honours were conferred upon Antonine by Ha-

There was probably fome dillin£lion made among

[hoaej

A mariner having difcharged his gun, which was

My father's lofs, like a moll royal prince,

;

All thefe a milk-white iSowfy-ciwrifurround,

Privileges of rank or birth.
Henry the fevcnth, truly pitying

1 1.

Milton.

Ho'norary. adj. [A««or(7rra/, Latin.]
made in honour.
1. Done in honour

Allerlurjf,

Numbers engage their lives and labours, fome to
heap together a little dirt that (hall bury them in the
end ; others to gain an honour, that, at beft, caa
be celebrated but by an inconfiderable part of the
world, and is envied and calumniated by more than
'tis truly given.
Wake's Frefarationfor Death*

Shake/f.

talk fondly.
Nay, but to live
In the rank fwtat of an inceftuous bed,
Stcw'd in corruption, hMeyi/ig and making love
Shakeff. Hamlet.
Over the nafty iVy.
Ho'ney-bag. [houeji and iag-l
The b<mey-iag is the ftomach, which bees always
fin to fatisfy, and to fpare, vomiting up the greateft
part of the honey 10 be kept againft Winter. Crew.

Which in the midlt the country banquet crown'd.

dead, as for the ufe of the living.

Look now for no enchanting voice, nor fear

honey.

beneath tbt

Their fun'ral honours claim'd and aflt'd their quiet
graves.
Dryden.
Such difcourfes, on fuch mournful occafions as
thefe were inftituted not fo much in honour of the

When he fpeaks.

To

[from the noun.]

it

Publick markof refpeft.

He faw his friends who whelm'd

The air, a charter'd libertine, isftill;
And the mute wonder lurketh in men's ears.

Dryden.

kouey-eomhed, and loading
powder took fire.

boaft.
A late eminent perfon, the honour of his pn>«
feflion for integrity and learning.
Burnet' tTbeerj,

10.

Sweet; lufcious.

2.

Honey, you Ihall be well defir'd in Cyprus
Oh, my fweet,
I've found great love amongft them.
I prattle out of faihion, and I dote. Sbakrfp. Othello.
Why, honey bird, I bought him on purpofe for

Ho'net-combed. aJ/.

A

Millai,

Glory ;

waves.

That at her flow'ry work doth ling.

'\

n.

9.

Covered with honev.
The bee with honied thigh.

1

;

nj.

Two of far nobler (hape, ertfl and tall,
Codlike erefl : with native honour clad ,
In naked majefty, feem'd lord* of all.

Ho'ni ED. adj. [from hoiuy.l

Shakefp,

Sweet fweetnefs ; a name of tendernefs.
[Mel; corculum

ToHo'net.

Dignity of mien.

8.

plant.
Sbakffp,

thee.

Being

honej.'\

And leave them hoiuylefs.

Ho'ney-wort. ».y.

A bcney tongue, a heart of gall
Is fancy's fpring, but forrow's fall.

[from

adj.

honour, that the folly of my foul dares not prefent
ilfelf ; (he is too bright to be looked againft. Shot,

without honey.

New wine, with botity temper'd milk we bring;
Then living walcis from the chryftal fpring. Pofe.
Xt Sweetnefs ; lufcioufnefs.
The king hath found
Matter againft him, ibat for ever man

Sbakeff.

Watch upon a bank

venuble kind, being a mod eiquifite fcgetable fope,

force of fermencition ; for by diftillation it aiTorJs
Arbuthnot.
noihing that will burn in the tire.

She dwells fo fecurely on the excelleney of her

Made proud by princes, that advance their pride

of
ph^licians about him, at thick as wafps to a hontj
L'EJhufigt.
pot.
Homty is the moil elaborate prodaftion of the
there't

HON

HON

HON
When the patkat is rich,

To Ho'nour. or. a. \honmrer, French ; bor.ort,

Latin.]

To reverence; to regard with venera-

1.

tion.
He was called our father, and was continually
honoured of all men, as the next perfon unto the
Efili. xvi. 10.
king.
The poor man is honoured for his (kill, and the
Eccltf X. 3 1rich man is honoured for his riches.
He that is honoured in poverty, how much more
Ecclef.x.%i.
in riches ?
How lov'd, how hcnour'd once, avails thee not.
Pope.

To dignify ;

2.

to raife to greatnefs.

We nourilh 'gaind our fenate

Of man's impoflibilities, have preferv'd thee. Shak.
Noblenefs of mind ; fcom of ir<eannefs ;
magnanimity.
Now (hall I fee thy love what motive may

The cockle of rebellion, infolence, fedition.
Which we ourfelves have plough'd (or, fow'd and
fcatter'd.

By mingling them with us, the honout 'd number.

;

Shakeff.

Be llrongcr with thee than the name of wife ?

—That which upholdeth him,

that thee upholds.
His honour. Oh, thine ietour, Lewis, thine honour.

Sbakefpeare.
If by honsur is meant any thing diftinfl from confcicnce, 'tis no more than a regard to the cenfure
and elleem of the world.
Rogers.

due veneration. To do honour is to treat with reverence.

6. Reverence ;

To glorify.

4.

I will

1.

Illuftrious; noble.
Who hath taken this counfel againft Tyre, the
crowning city, whofc merchants are princes, wbofc
traffickers are the honourable of the eaith ?

Shakrff.

Ifa. xxiii. 8.

His Grace of Canterbury,

Who holds his ftate at door, 'mongft purfuivants.
Ha

he indeed f
Sbakeff.
a duty in the fitih commandment, required towards our prince and our parent, under the
o^ honour ; a refpedl, which, in the notion of
tear, and, in the
it, implies a mixture of love and
objeil, equally fuppofes goodncfs and power. Rogeri.
!

2.

is

mmz

7. Chaftity.

Be (he honour flaw'd,
have three daughters, the elded is eleven ;
If this prove Uue, they'll pay for't.
Shakeff,
I

Great ; magnanimous ; generous.
Sir, I'll tell you.
Since I am charg'd in honour, and by him
think
That I
io/wa;aA/<.
Sbakrffeart,

'tis

Is this the honour they do oneanother?

This

(hall fol-

Ho'nour ABLE. adj. [honorable, French.]

They take thee for their mother.

And every day do honour to thy grave.

harden Pharaoh's heart, that he

low after thepi, and I will be honouied upon Pharoah and upon all his hoft, that the Egyptians may
Ex. xiv.
know that I am the I.ord.

3.

Conferring honour.
Thiiik'tl thou it honourable for a nobleman
Still to remember wrongs?

Sbakeff.

Then warlike kings, who for their country fought.
And hinouiahle wounds from battle brought. Dryd,
Many of thofe perfons, who put this honourable,
lafk on a>c, weic more able to p cr6>rm it themfclves.

Drydtn.

4. Accom-

HOO

HOO
Accompanied with tokens of honour.

4.

Preferve her caufc to her eternal doom ;
And in the mean, vouchfafe her banoumbU tomb.
Spenfer.

Not to be difgraced.

Here's a Bohemian Tartar tarries the coming
down of thy fat woman : let her dcfcend, my chamShakeffttre.
bers are iOTsaraWc.

—

6. Free from taint ; free from reproach.

As he was bon'-urahle in all his afls, fo in this
I. Mac. xiv. 5.
that he took Joppe for an haven.
Methinks 1 could not die any where fo contented
company, his caufe being juft and

Ho'oDM.'VN Blind, n.f. A play in which
the perfon hooded is to catch another,
and tell the name ; blindman's buiF.
What devil was't,
That thus hath cozen 'd 'you at hoodman blir.d *
SbaUfp.

To Ho'oD-wiNK. -v. a. [hood TinA. txiink.'\
To blind with foraething bound over the
1
eyes.
'They willingly

Sljakrff.

Honeft; without intention of deceit.
The earl fent again 10 know if they would enter-

7.

they

honaurable^ that from hipifell

Sbakfjpeare.

8. Equitable.

Eminence; magnificence; gene-

ehle.]

Not that I'd lop the beauties from his book,
Like ilaihlug Bentley wiih his defperate book. Pope,
7. The part of the hinge fixed to the polt:

whence the proverb, off the hooks, for

rofity.

Ho'NOURABi.y. adv. [from ^onourai/e.^
I. With tokens of honour.

My doublet looks.
Like him that wears it, quite off a' theheioks.
Cleaveland.

She was horribly bold, meddling and cxpcniive,
and monllrous hard to be

eafily put off the books,

pleafed again.

Ro'we.
Fanlaftick cruelty of bocd-tvink'd chance
On high, where no hoarfc Windsor clouds refort.
The Aa)</-K//»X'J.goddcfs keeps her partial court.

And friend Delany at his books.
HooK. [In hulbandry.}

8.

Shakrfp.

Magnanimoully

generoufly.
weeks, which the king did ho.

After fome fix
nourably interpofe, to give fpace to his brother's interceflion, he was arraigned of high treafon, and
Bacon.
condemned.

with exemption from

Reputably ;

J.

re-

proach.

^

'Tis juft, ye gods ! and what I well deferve
Dryien.
did 1 not more btnourailj lUrve

Why
Ho'nourer.

neration.
whofe leal in your
I muft not omit Mr. Cay,
Pofi.
coacem is worthy a friend and Ixmcurer.
Hood, in compofition, is derived from the

Saxon hab, in German

htit,

in

Dutch

It denotes quality ; charafter; con-

dition:
hocd.

Dutch,

2.

3.

To deceive

as maidenhead.

Sometimes it is

as, brotherhood , a con-

fraternity : Jifierhood, a company of fillers.

[hob, Saxon, probably from
Hood.
hepob, head.]
I. The upper covering of a woman's head.
n. f.

In velvet, white as fnow, the troop was gown'd
Dryden.
Their ho<idi and fleeves the fame,
:

drawn upon the head, and

wrapping round it.
He undertook fo to muffle himfelf up in his iood,
ffillon.
that none Ihoulddifccm him.
The lacerna came, from being a military habit,
to be a common drefs: it had a bxd, which could

be feparatcd from and joined to it.

to impofe upon.
which often Ihe had
ufed to her hulbaod's fliame, filling all men's ears
in infamy,

but his, with reproach; while he hood--u,ink'
with kinducfs, leafi of ail men knew who ftruck

The hard horny fubftance, on the feet of
graminivorous animals.
With the boofi of
all thy ftreets.

The bull and ram know the ufe of their horns as

oblique.
Ludicrous.
Which he by hook or crook had gather'd,
And for his own inventions father'd.
Hudibras.
He would bring him by hook or crook into his
quarrel.
Dryden.

Among quadrupeds, the ro«-deer is the fwifleft

huge jack he ha'd caught \T3s ferved up for
dilh : upon our fitting down to it, he gave
us a long account how he had boated it, played
with it, foiled it, and at length drew it out upo.*
the bank.
Addifon.
the

tirft

Tointrap; to infnare.
To draw as with a hook.

2.
3.

But ftie
I can book to roe.

Sbakefp. f^'inter's Tale.

To faften as with an hook.
5. To draw by force or artifice.

4.

There are many branches of llie natural law no
way reducible to the two tables, uulefs booked in by
tedious confcqucnces.

Norris,

Ho'oKEv. adj. [i'rom.hook.2 Bent; curvated,

;

ef\thei grypiu, tor an Aoo^Ci/ or aquiline nofe. Brown,
thou thrcatcn'ft, with unjuft degree.

Now
To feize the prize which

I

fo dearly bought

the hoifed, the horfe is the moft beautiful;
Grew.
of all the clawed, the lion is the ftrongelt.

Mean match to thine ; for ftill above the reH,
Thy iwi'i/ rapacious hands ufurp llie bcft. Dryd.

HooF-Bot;ND. adj. [A(w/"and iourid.J
A horfe is faid to be boojf'btiund when he has a

Caterpillars have claws and feet : the claws are
booked, to take the better hold in climbing from
twig to twig, and hanging on the backfides of leaves.

of

ail

pain in the fore-feet, occafioned by the dryncfs and
contraction or narrownefs of the horn of the quarters,
which (Iraitens the quarters of the heels, and ofteniioof.bound liorfe
times makes the horfe lame.

A

has a narrow heel, the fides of which come too near
one another, infomuch that the flefti is kept too
tight, and has not its natural extent. Farrier' 1 Diet .

Grevj.

Ho'oKEDNESS.

Any thing Dcnt fo as to catch hold; as

I,

a fhepherd's hook and pot hosks.
This falling not, for that they bad not far enough
they afTayed with
ftrong ropes to have pulled it down.

und>:rmincd

it,

great ho^kx and
Kn'-llti.

The corvated wire on which the bait is

z.

hung for liihes, and with which the fifli is
•

That from the foolifh lifti their baits do hide. Spenfer.

My bended book Ihall pierce
Their (limy j.T.vs.

Shakefpeare.

Thou divine Plato thus of pleafures thought,
They ui with hooki anU baits, like ii^Ai, caught.
Denham.

Thus with my hat, aad figh, and fay, AmcD. Sbak.
3.

Having

1

may julHy

fa)-

with

the hsoktiofed fellow of

Rome there, Czfar, 1 cam£, faw, and overcame.
Shakefp. Henry IV.

HOOP. n.f. [hoep, Dutch.]
1 .

Any thing circular by which fomething
elfe is bound, particularly calks or barrA.

Thou ftialt provL- a (belter to thy friends^

A hoop of gold to bind thy brothers in,

j

That the united veffel of their blood
Sbakefp. Henry IV.

Shall never leak.
If I knew

Like unto golden hooks,

While grace is faying, I 'II burd mine eyei

State

[ftota hooktd.]

the aquiline nofe rifing in the middle.

pierced.

Pofe.

n, /.

of being bent like a hook.
Hook no's e d . adj. [hook and nofe.]

HOOK. n.f. [hoce, Saxon; hoeck, Dutch.]

%, To blind as with a hood.

Tocovext

To Hook. ii. a. [from the noun.]
1. To catch with a hook.

Grypi flgnitics eagle or vulture; from whence the

hoofs.

when he is not to fly.

Thccobler apron'd, and the parfon gown'd,
'Wit Wmi hooded ^ and the monarch crown'd.

More.

Ho'oFED. aiJ/. [from Aso/".] Furoifhedwith

Arhulbnnt.

4. An ornamental fold that hangs down the
back of a graduate, to mark his degree.
To Hood. f. a. [from the noun.]
I. To drefs in a hood,

his hoifes (hall he tread down
£«i.xxvi. 11.

well as the horfe of his hoofi.

by

;

any expedient ; by any means direft or

Sidney.

him.

HOOF. n.f. [hop, Saxon; hief, Dutch.]

A covering put over the hawk's eyes,

3.

Sbakejp,

;

She delighted

Ainfiiorth.

One way or other

The

Be patient; forthe prize, I'll bring thee to.

knighthood; ckildhvjd; fathcrSometimes it is written after the

taken collectively :

3.

to hide.

Shall bocd--wirtk this mifchance.

as,

1. -^ny thing

;

I

One
.(from honmr.'\
one that regards with ve-

n. f.

that honours ;

btiJ.

Carib,

To cover

;

Sivlfr.

A field foiva

two years running.

Hook or Crook.

!

t.

L'BJlrange,

While Sheridan is off the books.

Muft I wed Rodogune ?

The rev'rend abbot,
With all his convent, bomtiraUy received him.

in

diforder.

leaguer of the

Satan is fain to hoid-viir.k thofe that ftart.
Decay of Piety
Prejudice fo dexteroufly hood-vjinks men's minds
as to keep them in the dark, with a belief that they
Locke.
are more in the light.

[from honour-

f.

into the

carried

^

An inftrument to cut or lop with.

6.

bood-rvitkhg themfelves from

So have I feen, at Chriltmas fpotts, one loft,
Afid baod-nink d, for a man embrace a port.
Ben Jonfon.

Thy purpofe marriage, fend me word to-morrow.

n.

is

Fairy

A fickle to reap corn.

Peafe are commonly reaped with a book at the end
of a long flick.
Mortimev,

adShakefpeare.
Then Ihe who hath been foajZ-tf /»*'</ from her birth,
Doth lirftherfelf within death's mirrourfee. Davits.

If that thy bent of love be bcnourablc.

Ho'nourableness.

The while the viands in the velTel boil'd.
J.

Ycrlarics.

Hayward.

would moft thankfully embrace it.

About the caldron many cooks accoil'd.
With books and ladles, as need did require

We

fuppofc he

Shakefp,

An iron to feize the meat in the caldron.

feeing his faults, he often abufcd the virtue of courage
Sidney.
to defend his foul vice of injudice.
will bind and bood-tiiink him fo, that he (hall

tain their pardon, in cafe he (houid come in perfoo, and allure it : they anfwered, they did conceive

him to be fo

Fairncis which Itrikes the eye.

{.

Dryden.

as in the king's

his quarrel honcurable.

Loves women for, belides that book of wiving,

In iirmamental waters dipt above;
Of it a broad extinguilher he makes.
And bixdt the flames that to their quarry flrove.

Silh this wrelched woman overcome.
Of anguitli, rather than of crime haih been,

5.

HOO
A (hop of aU the qualities that man

An hollAw cryftal pyramid he takes,

A fnare; a trap.

Wh.tt hoip would hold us (launch, from edge to edge
O' th' world, I would purfue it.
Sbakefp.
A quarrel, ho, already what's the m-ttter ?
Shake/p.
About a hoop of gold, a paltry ring.
To view (o lewd a town, and to refrain.

—

1

What hoops of iron codld my fplcen contain Dtyi,
And Icjrned Athens to our art muftltoop.
!

Could (he behold ui tumbling through a Isoof.

Pope.

i.

The

*.

The whalebone with wluch women ex-

Drydin.
Hofpimg from fpray to fpray v/ere heard.
Your Ben and Fletcher, in their firft young Bight,
Did no Volpone, nor no Arbaces write
But boff'd iitoaf, and (hort excurfions made
From bough to bough, ai if they were afraid. Dryd.

All that ioo/)! are good for is to dean dirtjr (hoes,
CUriJfa.

have feen at Rome an ant'iqiie ftatue of Time,
with a wheel or Aiw^ ol marble in his hand. Adiifon.

To Hoop. -v. a. [from the noun.]
1. To bind or enclofe with hoops.
The three ioo/iV pot fhall have ten Ak/'. and
Sbaktff.
I will make it felony to drinlc fmall berr.
The calks for his Maielly's (hipping were Aoo/ifrf
Raltigb.

Eve feparate

am highly delighted to fee the jay or thethrulh
SfeDalor.
bofping about my walks.
2. 1 o leap on one leg.
Men with heads like dogs, and others with one

7illo/on.
obedience,
The deccafed really lived like one that had his
hope in another life ; a life which he hath now
entered upon, having exchanged bope fur fight, delire
for enjoyment.
Atterbury.
Young men look rather to the paft age than the

to halt.
Tlie limping fmith obferv'd the fadden'd feaft.

Shalt hcop his body more with thv embraces,
Sbah/f. h'inirr'i Tale.
I wUI devife a death.
I hiop the firmanent, and make

CUav(U«d.

This my embrace the lodiac.
That (lielly guard, which bcofs in the eye, and
his
hides the greater part of it, might occafion
^'^'^
mKtake.
7b Hool OJ. n. [from tvapgan ox ivop^an,

And boffing here and there himfeif a jeft,
Drydcn'i Hiuur.

Put in his word.
move ; to play.

To

4.

Softly feel

Her feeble pulle, to prove if any drop
Fairy ^.

Of living blood yet in her veins did oof.

Hop. »./. [from the verb.]
^Gothick; or houpper, French, derived 1. A jump; a light leap.
from the Gothtck. This word is ge- 2. A jump on one leg.
When my wings are on, I can go above a hundred
nerally written ixihoop, which is more

prefent, and therefore the future may have fome
io^jofthem.
S'wift,
2. Confidence in a future event, or in the
future conduft of any perfon.

.

to make an outcry by way of
call or purfuit.

HOP. ». / [hop, Dutch; Jupulus, Latin.]

;

To Hoop f. a.
.

Daftard nobles

Su0er'd me, by the voice of (laves, to be
Sbah/f eare't Cortolanui.
hxp'd out of Rome.

To call by a Ihout.

Z.

[fiomixiep, to inclofc with
cooper ; one that hoops tubs.

Ho'oPER. »./

A

hoops.]

Ho'oPlNC-couGH. «•/. [or ivhoofing-cough,
from hoop, to Ihout.] A convulfive cough,
fo called from its noife; the chincough.
Tff Hoot. v. n. [h-w/, Welih; iwrr, Fr.]

To (hout in contempt,

1.

A number of country
thereby,

folks

happened to

pafs

who hollowed and booud Mer me as at the

Sidney.
Matrons and gitls (hall boct at thee no mote.
Drjjtti.

arranteli coward.

To cry as an owl.

2,

Some keep back

The clamorous owl, that nightly boots, and wonders
Sbakcfji.

At our queint fports.

To Hoot. i>. a.

_

_

To drive with noife and

fliouts.

We lov'd him

but, like beafts
Our coward nobles gave way to your dufters.
;

Who did Aoor him out o' th' city.

Sbah/f.

Or the Icaft bird, from muting on my head. B. "Jon/on.
Partridge and his clan may hott me for a cheat
and iropottor, if I fail in any particular of moment.
Sxvi/r.

[iue'e French, from the verb.]

^Clamour; (hout; noife.
Its a(Tertion would be entertained with the boot of
GUnvill'i Scrf/!i.

the rabble.

To HOP. v.

a.

[hoppan, Saxon ; happen,

Dutch.]
I,

To jump

;

I

to (kip lightly.

I would have thee gone

will

And with a Clk thread plucks it back again. Sbai.
Go, bof> me over every kennel home
For you (hall bof without my cuftom, fir. Sbah/f.
Be kind and courteous to this gentleman,
Sbah/f.

lee

from

far

fome

lorty

truiicheoneers

to

'J

And yet brought forth lefs than a mother's hvpe;

To wit, an indigefted delorm'd lump.

Sbah/f,

She was his his care, his bofe, and his delight,
Moft in his thought, and ever in his light. Dryden,
Hope. n. f. Any (loping plain between

the ridges of mountains.

Ainjiuorth,

To Hop e. t. n. [fronithe noun.]

To live in expeftation.

1

Hofe for good fuccefs, according to the efficacy of
the caufcs and the indrument; and let the hulbaiidTaylor,
man hofe for a good harvell.

My mufe, by ftormslong toft.
Is thiown upon your hofpitable coaft ;

And finds more favour by h^r ill fuccefs.
Dryden.
Than (he could hofe for by her happinefs.
Who knows what adverfe fortune may befall

Arm well your mind, ii>^f little, and fear all, Dryd,
I'o place confidence in another.
He (hall ftrengthen your heart, all ye that io^ in
f/ai. ixxi. »4.
the Lord.

2.

To expeft with deCre.
The fun (bines hot; and it we uledctay.

Mortimer.
lings an acre.
Hop poles, the largeft fort, (hould be about twenty
foot-long, and about nine inches \ncomfik,Mortimer.

Sbak,
Cold biting Winter mars ourbtp*d for hay,
So (lands the Thracian herdlman with his fpear
the
hunted
bear.
Dryd,
Full in the gap, and bofes

To Hop. 'v. a. [from the noun.]
I .

ToHorz.v.a.

Ho'p E F u L. adj. [hope unAfuU. ]
1. Full of qualities which produce hope;

To impregnate with hops.
Brew ill Oaober, and bof it for long keeping.

promi(ing; likely to obtain fuccefs; likely
to come to maturity ; likely to gratify
defire, or anfvvcr expeftation.

Mortimer,

To increafe the milk, dimini(hed by flefli-meat,
Ariutbnot.
lake malt-drink not much boffed.

He will advance thee

HOPE. «. /. [hopa, Saxon; £«/<, Dutch.]

I

I. Expcifiation of fome good ; an expedation indulged with pleafure.

lUfe is that pleafure in in the mind which every
one finds in himfcif, upon the thought of a profit.ible
future enjoyment of a thing, which is apt to delight
^o'*'him.
yhere is bope of a tree, if cut down, that it will
jfoi, xiv. 7.

When in heav'n (he (hall his elTence fee.

That lets it bof a little upon her hand.

Eccle/. xiv. 1,

The price of hoeing of bof ground i» forty (hil-

fprout again.

And yet no further than a wanton's bird.

ii^ in bis walks, aod gainbol in his eyes.

it

zM.ic, vii. 14.
no: fallen from his /6<^^c in

he objed of hope.
Thy mother Icit more than a mother's pain.

4.

Dcrbam.

the poles without forks, otherwifc

is

her fuccour, which were the bofe of the
Shalt. HenryWllX,
Strand, where (he wasquartcr'd.

Next to thiftles are bof ftrings cut after the flowers

Have

might

draw

Beer hath malt lird infufed in the liquor, and is
Bacon.
afterwards boiled with the bop.

be troublefome to port the bof vines and the poles.
M''r timer
When you water hops, on the top of every hill put
diflblving dung which will enrich your bof hills.
Mortimer.
In Kent they plant their bof gardens with apple'Mortimer.
trees and cherry-trees between,

he who

fomething defired may be etfefted.

A plant.

are gathered.

is

That which gives hope; that on which
the hopes are fixed, as an agent by which

AiaJ'Wiirth.

hat a creeping root : the leaves are rough,
angular, and conjugated ; the (lalks climb and twift
about whatever is near them j the flowers are male
aod female on different plants: the male flower
coniifts of a calyx divided into five parts, which
furiounds the (lamina, but has no petals to the
flower : the female plants have their flowers collefted
into fquamofe heads, which grow in bunches : from
each leafy fcale is produced an horned ovarey, which
Miller.
becomes a fingle roundilh feed.
If bof yard or orchard ye mind for to have.
fave.
TuJ/rr.
For bof fold and crotchets in lopping to
The planting of bof yards is profitable for the
Bacon.
the
kingdom.
for
confequently
planters, and

good, being put to death by men, to look
God, to be railed up again by him.

the Lord.

3.

"•

The owl of Rome, whom boys and girls will boot !
That were I fet up for that wooden god
That keeps our gardens, could not fright the crows.

Hoot. a. /

A place where meaner people dance.

is

Bleired

It

To drive with a (hout.

I.

yards at a bof, ftep, and jump.

3.

To (hout

It

tor bofe from

Addi/an.

proper if we deduce it from the Gothick
and hmp if we derive it from the French.]

Milton,

In bopesto reconcile their hcav'niy foe,
Dryden,
Why not comfort myfeif with the boft of what
may be, as torment myiclf with the leai on't.
L'E/}range,
To encourage our bofeS, it gives us the higheft
a(turance of mod lading happincfi, in cale of

To walk lamely, or with one leg lefs
nimble or ftrong than the other ; to limp j

If ever henceforth thou

when to his wiih.

:

To Pallas' fane in long proceinon go.

huge foot alone, whereupon they did bof from place
Abboi.
to place.

To encircle; toclafp; to furround.

he with'd, but not with bofe

Beyond his bofe. Eve feparate hefpies.
The Trojan dames

I

3.

:

Of what fa fcldom chanc'd

Collier.

and bif over heated ploughlhares blindfold ?

I

He fought them both, but wilh'd his hap might lind.

Why don't we vindicate ourlclves by trial ordeal,

and to keep lellows at a diftance.
3. Any thing circular.

as a winc-ca(k, or A<Ki/>f'/»ith iron.

7aylor,

j

S^ifl.

Theenlry brulh'J againfther *os/>.

But what and where we would b« : thus art thou
Ourabfent prefencc, and our future now. Crajlaw,
Faith is oppofed 10 infidelity, and b»pe to defpair.

The painted birds, companioni of th« Spiinj,

tend their petticoats ; a farthingale.
At coming in you faw her (loop:

2.

HOP

HOP

HOP

This is her fov'reign good and perfcft blifs
Her longing, wilhings, bopea, all finilh'd be ;

Her

joys are full, her motions reft in this.

Sveci bof e! kind cheat

!

fair fallacy !

We are not where or what we be;

Da-vies.

by ibee

know his noble nature,

:

not to let

ThyAo/v/"Wferviceperilh.

Shch/p,

You ferve a great and gracious mafter, and there
is a moft bcpf/ul young prince

dcfert.

whom you rauA not
Bacon.

What to the old can greater pleafure be.
Than hofe/ul and ingenious youth to fee \ Denbam,
They take up a book in their declining years,
and grow very bope/ul fcholars by that time they are
Addijin.
threcfcore.
2.

of hope ; full of expedation of
This fenfe is now almoft confined
to Scotland, though it is analogical, and
found in good writers.
Full

fuccefs.

Men

HOP

HOR

M«n of their own natural inclination ifl^jfi^/ and
ftrongly conceited, whatfoever they took in hand.

Hoaker.

was bofeful the fuccefs of your firft attempts
would encourage you to niak.e trial alfo of more nice
•nd difficult experiments.
Boylt.
Whatever ills the friendle&orphan bears,
I

And mark the clack howjuftly it will found. *e//fr/iw»
2.

Pop(.

Ho'p E F u L L Y. ad-v. [from hopeful,'\
In fuch manner as to raife hope ;
1

Clarendon.

This fpnfe

2.

Glamiillt.

bel.-rehand certain iignatures of hapt-

f::lHji, or charaders, whereby may be timely dekribed what the child will prove in probability.

^
m'psLESS, adj.
pectation ;

would bound it,
hemifphere.

Drydrn

all b<,ftn,

the nronger eipcdtation of a good
certain falary will
outweigh the lols by bad rents.

Ho'piNGLY. ad-v. [from

hiping.']

With

hone; with expetfbtion of good.

wiltol habits of lin

R

Hammlnd.

[from hop.^
or jumps on one leg.
F,

.

n. f.

He who hops
Ai„fv,orth.

Hoppers, n. f. [commonly Z2X\tA Scotch
hoppfrs.]

f"^*f'^;

I.

The box or open frame of wood
which the corn is put to be ground.

J^aJ^L°' '^

T

''" Afphakite. fhooteth

into

into

"")' »« pyramidal and
u the
u /"""'r*
flam, like
&/>^,r of a mill.
C
Granirorou. buds have the mechanifm
,

of a m^':
holds and foften. the
drop by degree, into
the Itomach!

Uieir ma» i, the t^per which

|«U1, ieit.ng It

J»« .1 Uic bopf,r wili I aa»d,

""•

a^-.

1.

gray •

Slight pyrates, rocks

"^'^"^'"^

Horn „,ad.

7.

the main,
and born, for g.m.
'

Perhaps mad as a

Huditras

cuckold'

"'-^"^^

'^ "«
.^^
woiirhf!l\?;rii?.
'f;
Hornbe'ak. ) „./. Akindoffilh''"''-^^-

i, impoffible to
that rifes from fuch a

HORNPI'SH. I
Ji.f'u.-orth.
Ho RNBE AM. ,/. / Uom and beam,
Dutch

\J,orizcntal,

French,

for tree from the fiardnefs
of the timber 1
iehaih leaves like the elm
or
beech-tree.

In dim eclipfe, difaftrous

On half the nations.

timber is very tough and inflexible,

He teache. buy. the borntook.
"''

placed

"" '"""^'' -'Of E|Vb_X

reduced to thisj what pe7«nl
dicular height i> necei&ry to
place feveral rankfof
rowers
a plane inclined lo a
bori^^omul line „ a
g.ven angle?
is

m

Art«,h„o, onColl

Horizontally, ad-v. [from horiziintaU
In a dire«ion parallel to the

horn

to keep It unfoiled.

j^jji,

figures

''•

Thi

and of excellent

Ho'rnbook. n.f. [^r/, and
W.J^T'Jie
firft book of children,
covered with

the moon.
twilight (beds

Parallel to the horizon
on a level
;
An obehlk erefted, and golden

The problem

be horn mad.

tempeftf(o-''^Tt

As when the fun, new rifen.

"""

horm again into the world.

"''' *••" Warciusftood for Rome,
And
^,d'durr„!,;
durft not once peep out.
Sbakrfpeare,
5. A drinking cup made of
horn.
6. Antler of a cuckold.
I f I have horns
to make one mad.

Merchant,, venfring through

Near the horizon.

M,"C.

Sbahf*
'"

fnails.

banilhment,

Let the proverb go with mc, I'll

Looks through the Aor/^MWrnifty
air,
Shorn of his beams; or from behind

2.

^

and fenfible,

Mitlon.

irom horizjon.]

[fo

called becaufe it is
always hopping, or in agitation.
It is
called in French, for the fame
reafon,
tremie or trrmue.]

Love's feeling is more foft

the day,

AddUon.

Horizontal,

A kind of play in which the

n. f.

Baeon

billow, and Boating mountains,
it
defcribe the agreeable horrour

after hop on one leg.

Ho'ppER.

with herfelf from what coalt
and at whuHme

be upon the b,rUon of Ireland.

When the fea i, worked up in a

One fign

of defpair is the peremptory
contempt
of the condition which is the ground of
hope ; the
roing on not only in terrours and amazement
of confcience, but alfo boldly, Ao//,^/^,
and confidently in

Ho P P

to cafl

baluted in her fong the morning

to repreft

one s ardour.

1 hruft lorth his

And foon the fun arofe with beams fo
Uighf.
That all th- W«»„|augh'd to lee the
joyous fight.

Stuifi.

Whenfe't;

Aufidius,

Sbakefptare.

The morning lark, tlie meffenger of

boms.

proverb r» pull in the horn.,

and his mates.

lovetted with bright rays.

who turn the fcale, becaufe

-^

than are the tender A^r« of cockled

In hit tart the glorious lamp
was feen.
Regent of day ; and all th" boria>n
round

pleafing expeflations.

W.

The feelers of a fnail.

4.

by

this blazing ftar Ihould firft appear,

Sbakefp.

or wifn-

i he moon

Wean a wan circle round her blunted

We'll forward towards Warwick

it muft

match ordain.

poets.
She blefs'd the bed, fuch
fruitfulnefs convey'd.
That ere ten moons had (harpen'd
lo crown their blili, a lovely boy either A„I'
was born.

if it could take in the

-

'

train,

>ng moon, as mentioned by

Hearing of our M-ircius's

.

around

'^'y^"'

3. The extremity of the waxing

VVhtn the morning fun (hall raife
bis car
Above the border of this borixon.

c
Sh. began

r

infernal found

Afcanius, and his youthful

dreadful fweep,

It is lalfely pronounced

l

^'''^'ff'^'

born

(he rocks and woods

•,Ji\
With
horm and hounds a hunting

ihak'J'peare, horizon.

Ho PER. n. J. [from hept.\ one that has
ejcept

is

The line tha^
terminates the view.
The horiz-.n is
diftinjuifhed into fenlible and
real: the
fenfible horizon is the circular
line which
limits the view ; the real is that
which

promifing nothine
*

The hoptlrfi word of never to return.
Breathe I agamft thee upon pain of life.

a migratory crew
applied only to the

:

And mountains, tremble at th'

HORl'ZON. ,. f. (;jj.^,,.]

And boftltfi 10 prevail by open force,
Seeks hid advantage, thjden: Siau
of Innoeme.

pleafing.

It

c;

^""'"'^ '" '-"rooked

a.. "^iM
Adds
all her breath

Bruivn ; Vulgar Errors.

Drove martial horde on horde with

Hojitr.
Alas! I amawoman,friendlefs,i<,yv/r/i.' Sbatr/p.
He watches with greedy hope to find
Hii with, and beft advantage, us afunder •
tUptitJi to circumvent uj join'd, where each
To mlierfpeedy aid might lend at need.
Mitton
The fill'n archangil, envious of our ftate.

would' fall.

hoin lull of good news.

defolatijn, and

Tartars.
Of loft mankind, in polilh'd flavcry funk.

dcfpairing.

Giving no hope;

"^"\

of people.

[from hope.^
without plcafing ex-

Hrfeltfi of ranfom, and coodemn'd to
lie
In diraiice.doom'd a ling'ring death to
die.

That with the noife it (hook as it

TalUr.

Horde, n. /. A dan;

Without hope;

Are they indi,!erent, being ufed as figns of imoedciate and bofeleft lamentation for the dead f

Thefquire 'gannigher to approach.

And wind his horn under the caftle-wall

fruits of Sum-

IValton.

age.

An inftrument of wind-mufick
made of
horn.

2.

that their trancjuility was of
no longer duration
than thofe horary or foon-drcaying

„

Ht^^
iw"

m

at certain periods of

Continuing for an hour.

was declared the propinquity of their

Ho'PEFULNESs. ti.f. [from hopeful.^ Promifeofgood; likelihood to fucceed.

1

Ww

When, from a balket of Summer-fruit, Cod by
Amos foretold the dellrudtion of his people, thereby

may bofifuUy eipeS a conliderable enlargement of

down

teeth.

Latin.]
Relating to an hour.

prifing ajl Iharpers.

From your pramiling and generous endeavours we

Dutch.]

£««.
Zetus rifes through the ground.
Bending the bull's tough neck
with pain,
IhattolTes back his
in vain
^M-r.
All that procefs is no mor:
f;T,rifi„g
eruption of born,
fome brutes, or of' teeth
and
beard in men

manner of fur-

is rare.

2.

Prior.

hitarius,

In bis aniwer to an borary quellion,
as what
hour ot the n.ght lo fet a fox-trap, he
has difcuffed,
under the charafler of Reynard, the

fecuic it boffjully, to the reduiaioa or fupprelTion of

1.

;

What you perhaps forgot befell you.
By way ol btrary infpetaion.
Which lome account our worft ereAion. Hudiiras.

with peers of the realm actually, or boftfulty with
earls' fons and heirs.
IVition.
They were ready to renew the war, and to pro-

horn,

^'^'" yMch grow on the
of fome graminivorous
quadrupeds,
and ferve them for weapons.
No beaft that hath ior«, hath upper

IM draw a figure that Ihall tell you

He left all his female kindred either matched

Set

oaxon ;

''u^'^j
heads ^V^

The whole (lands Itill, or breaks to pieces.

no RAKY. adj. [haraire, Fiench

empty ts

with<celerity.

""

to the hour.
Howe'er reduc'd and plain.

1.

the hillory oi nature.

_

The ambient ether is too liquid and

'•"•'^""'b
Bentle,
L>V?f,'lT
HOkN.
„ /. \haurn Gothicfc ; honn,*

Aitijiuorth.

Ho' R Ah. adj. [from^ara, Latin.] Relating

in a

proroifing way.

the Irifh.

A baflcct for carrying feed.

The watch would ftill a watch remain
But if the borai orbit ceafes.

Bereav'd of parents in his infant years,
Still muft the wrong'd Telemachus fultain.
If bifefutoi your aid, he hopes in vain.

2. With hope; without defpair.

HO R

In my whole life I never faw grid ground,

horizon,

neither flo.it above, like lighter
bodie-i ; but. beine
near in weight, lit
fuperficiaJly, or alawft horizon,.
l!y

Shakejpear,

Nothing has been coi.Gdered of this
kind ouf of the
ordinary road of the hornbook and
primer.
Lock,
Vo mafter John the Englilh maid
borniook gives of ginger-bread
;
And that the child might learn the better.
As he can name, he eaii the letter.

A

Horned,

adj.

[from

ior^.]

with horns.

Prh,
fumilhed

As when two ram,, ftirr'd with
ambitious pride.
Fight for the rule of the rich
fleeced flock,

1 heir horned Ironts fo fierce on

either fide

Uo meet, that, with the terrour of
Aftoniaied both Hand fenfelefs as

the fhock,
a block. J-airtS.

7 hither all the buned holt (ClwU,

To graze the ranJiet mead.

*

Dmham.
Thoil

Thou king of homeJ floods, whofe plenteaui urn
DryJen.
Sudiceifatnai to the fruitful corn.
Ho'rnbr. n. /. [from horn.'\ One that
works in horn, and fells horns.
•

HOR

HOR

The configuration of the planets at the hour of birth.
How unlikely it it, that the many almoll num-

Ho'rrisokous, adj. [htrilfoHut, Latin.]
Did,
Sounding dreadfully.
Ho'rrour. ti.f. [horror, Lat. horreur, Fr.]
1. Terrour mixed with detcftation; a pa(F.oii
compounded of fear and hate, both ftrong.

H OR

V

••«»»©-.]

berlcfs

made ufe of by bomert, whereupon they (have
Grew.

that J>ne horofcope or conjunction which is
Drummond.
found at his birth ?
proportion of the horofcope unto the fcvcnth

their horns.

_

Ho'rnet. »./. [hypnerte, Saxon, from its
boms.] A very large ftrong Hinging fly,
which makes its neit in hollow trees.
Silence, in times of fufl'ring is the bed

tervail

Ho'rnfoot. »./. [^borti anAfoot.] Hoofed.
Mad frantick men, that did not inly quake

!

With bnrnfoit horfes, and brafs wheels, Jove's ftorms
Htike^vili on Providence,

to emulate.

Him born beneath a boding horofcope.

horofcopes in the fame dufl they fprung out of.
Bentley.

with points ;
by Milton.

Him a globe
Of fiery feraphim incircled round

HO'RRIBLE. adj. [horrible, French
ribilis, Latin.]

Of tcrrour, foul and ugly to behold.
Milton.
Horrid to think, how horrible to feel
Eternal happinefs and eternal mifery, meeting
with a perfualion that the foul is immortal, arc, of
all other, the firil the mofl dcfireable, and the
latter the mofl horrible to human apprehenfion.
South.

latter.

A kind of angular for-

tification.

Ho'rribi.eness.

Ho'rny. adj [from ^»r«.]
Refembling horn.
He thought he by the brook of Cherith flood.
And faw the ravens with their homy beaks
Milton.
Ft>od to Elijah bringing even and morn.
The horny ox pellucid coat of the eye doth not
Ue in the lame fupertices with the white of the
eye, but rifeth up above its convexity, and is of an
hyperbolical figure.
Kay on the Creation.

^ough arc her ears, and broad her horny feet.
Dryden.

The pineal gland was cncompafTed with a kind oi
horny fubftanct.
Adjifon.
As the ferum of the blood is refolvable by a (mall
hear, a greater heat coagulates it fo as to turn it
horny, like parchment ; but when it is thoroughly
putrified, it will no longer conci-etc.

[horologium,

glafs.
He'll watch the horologe a double fet
If drink rock not his cradle,
Shakefpeare.
Before the days of Jerome there were horologies,
that meafured the hours not only by drops of water
In glafTcs, called clepfydra, but alfo by fand in glalTes,

Brovn.

called clepfammia.

»f« and

/A«rfi'« ]

\horometrie,

French;

The art of raeafuring

2.

It is no eafy wonder how the

<iulty difcovered not this artifice.

horomelry of antiBro^un.

.Ho'roscofe. *./. [horofcofe, French; ij«.

A conftellation.
Thy face, bright centaur, Autumn's heats retain;

To take horfe

to fet out to ride.
;
took horfe to the lake of Conllance, which ii
formed by the entry of the Rhine. Addifon on Italy.

3.
Milton.

I

Dreadful to a degree.
The contagion of thefe ill precedents, both in

4, it is ufed in the plural fenfe, but with a

l.ocke.

Angular termination ; for horfes, hotfe-

civility and virtue, horribly infects children.

men, or cavalry.

HO'RRID. adj. [horridus, Latin.]
Hideous

1 .

;

1

(hocking.

dreadful ;

Which chance to find us.

:

five thoufand horfe and foot, for the repulfing of the
enemy at their landing. Bacon's If'ar iviih Spain.

Sbakefpeare't Cymteline.

Not in the legions
0( horrid hell can come a devil more damn'd.
In evils to top Macbeth.
Horror on them fell,
And horrid lympathy.

Shocking; offenfive
women's cant.

:

in
;.

Pope.

6.

:

as,

a horfe to dry linen on.

A wooden machine which foldiers ride
by way of puni(hment.

Horrid with fern, and intricate with thorn.

Few paths of human feet or tracks of bealls were
Dryden.

worn.

horrid.]

Hi-

deoufnefs ; enormity.

A bloody defigner fuborns his inftniment to take
away fuch a man's life, and the confclTor reprcfents
the horridnefs of the fail, and brings
pentance.

him to reHammond.

horrour.
His jaws Aorrj/fc*, arm'd with tlirtt-fold fate,
Tbtmpfon.
Heie dwells the direful (hark.

Clarendon,

Dryd. Mn.

Something on which any thing is fupportcd

Rough; rugged.

Ho'rridness. If. f. [from

have marched away with their horfe.
Th' Arcadian horfe
With ill-fuccefs engage the Latin force.

Milton.

Already I your tears furvey.
Already hear the horrid things they fay,

3.

If they had known that all the king's horfe were
quartered behind them, their foot might very well

Sbatefpeare.

tinpleafing:

did hear

The galloping of horfe who was't came by ? Shahef.
The armies Were appointed, confiftjng of twenty-

Give colour to my pale cheek with thy blood.
That we the borrider xai^j feem to thofe

2.

Locke.

to belong to ordinarily \o horfes.

2.

'\

Ho'r Ri PICK. adj. [horn^ficuj, Lai.] Caufing

hours.

Duncan's for/fi, the minions of the race,
Shakefp.
Turn'd wild in nature, broke their ftalls.
A horfc ! a horfe ! my kingdom for a borfe ! Shak.
We call a little horfc, fuch a one as comes not up
to the (ize of that idea which we have in our mindt

Thefoftcrfeafon fuiiing to the man j
Whilrt Winter's Ihivering goat afHidls the horfe
With froft, and makes him an unealy courfe. Creech,

lljiribly loud ?

Latin.]

Any inftrument that tells
the hour; as a clock; a watch; an hour-

A neighino quadruped, ufed in war, and
draught and carriage.

1,

horrible.^

Wliat hideous noife was that

Dry Jen.

\horographie, Fr. i»«

HORSE. »./. [hop)-, Saxon.]

I

An account or the hours.

n. f.

All objctls of the fenfes, which are very offenfive,
do caufe the fpirits to retire; and, upon their flight,
the parts arc in fome degree deftitutc, and fo there it
induced in them a trepid.ition and horrour.
Bacon* s Natural Hifiory.

Dreadfully; hideoufly.

1.

Tyrrheus, the fofler-faiher of the bcall,

IIoro'metry.

[from

/.

Ho'r R ELY. ad'v. [from horrible.

callous.

/.

quivering as precedes an ague-fit ; a fenfe
i^hicy.

fearfulnefs.

Aiiiulbnot.

Thenclench'd a hatchet in his horny liH.

n.

».

Dreadfulnefs ; hideoufnels; terriblenefs

Made ofnorn.

Ho'roloce \
Ho'rolocy (

Milton.

O fight

;

of (huddering or fhrinking.

A

Ainftuorth.

and yfo^to.]

drearinefs.
Her gloomy prefence faddcns all t)ie fcene.
Shade's ev'ry fiow'r, and darkens ev'ry green;
Deepens the murmuis of the falling floods.
And breathes a browner horrour on the woods. Pope.
Such a (huddering or
4. [in medicine.]

Dreadful ; terrible; (hock-

As one great furnace flamed.

A kind of blue ftone.

Gloom

hor-

;

Shukcfpeure's Macieth.

Cannot once ftart me.
3.

there be fights that are horrible, bccaufe they excite

prefence of feveral friends.

Ho'rocraphy. ». /.

Direnefs, familiar to my flaught'rous thoughts.

the memory of things that are odious or fearful. Bacon
dungeon horrible on all lidcs round.

Shall fetch the fiddlers out of France,
To wonder at the hornpipes here
Ben Jsn/on.
Of Nottingham and Dcrbylhire.
Florinda danced the Derbylhire hornpipe in the

Hard as horn ;

Their pride is humbled, and their fearconfcll. Dryi.
2. Dreadful thoughts.
I have lupt full with horrourn

ing; hideous; enormous.
No colour afFefteih the eye much with difpleafure

Ralei^b,

Let all the quickfilver i' the mine
Run to the feet veins, and refine
Your firkhum jerkhum to a dance

3.

Pointed outwards ; briflled
a word perhaps introduced

With bright emblaionry and horrent arms. Milton.
Spen/er.

Deep horrour feizes cv'ry human breafl

Horrentia

aJj. [horrens, Latin.

pilis agmina.\

There many » hornpipe he tun'd to his Phyllis.

Ho'r nwohk. »./.

Milton.

Our humours, manners qualities and arts. Creech.
They underllood the planets and the zodiack by
inftind, and fell to drawing fchemes of their own

Ho'rrint.

Davlu,

Mc damp borrour chill'd
At fuch bold words, vouch'd with a deed fo bold.

This governs life, and this marks out our parts.

A lufty tabrere.
Whereto they dauncen each one with his maid.

A trembling horrour in our fouls we find.

Dryden,

The Greek names this the horofcope;

Ht/RNFIPE. jt.J. [horn aBd//><r,] A country dance, commonly danced to a horn.

Ho'rnsto.ne. «./.

ii

From Mars his forge fent to Minerva's Ichool.

Ainfworlk.

That to thee many a hornpipe play'd,

Thehateful mclTcnEers of heavy things. Fa/r)' ^uciil.
Doubtkfs all fouls have a futviving thought,
Therefore of death «e think with quiet mind;
But if we think of being turn'd to nought,

Bro.

living creatures.

A kind of horned owl.

Ho'rnowl. »./

;

houfe, or oppofitefigns every feventh year, opprelTeth

Monimer,
I Vvie often admired how hornet!, that gather dry
materi^s for building their neits, have found a proDerbam.
per matter to glue their combs.

Over them, fad horrour, with grim hue.
Did always foar, beating his iron wings
And after him owls and night ravens Hew,

A

His fire, the blcar-ey'd Vulcan of a Ihop,

Drydtn.
•Tis dangerous to difturb a hornel's neft.
Hortult do milchiefto trees by breeding in them.

I.

the

in

progrefs of a man's life, (hould not match and coun-

hide

Zc

which occur

conjuoaion of ftars,

The Mn of a bull's forehead is the partof tlie

It is

fometimes

called a timber- mare.
fignifies
7. Joined to another fubftantive, it

fomething large or coarfe : as a horfeface, a face of which the features are
large and indelicate.

To Horse, v. a. [from the noun.]
with
I. To mount upon a horfe; to furnifh
a horfe.

He came out with all his clowns, horfed upon fuch
cart-jades, andfo fiimilhed, as 1 thought with myfelf,
friends ever to
if that were thrift, I wifht none of

my

thrive.

After a great fight thett came ta the

Sidney.

camp of
GonfalvB,

3

HOR

HOR

Couratvo, the grtat captain, a gentleman proudly
horftd and armed : Diego de Mendoza alked the
great captain,

Who's

this?

The

I

In eameftnels to fee him.

Put it into an ox's horn, and, covered clofe,
rot in hot bcrfedung.

To cover a mare.

If jou let hira out to borfe more marei than your
own, you muft feed him well.
Moriima:

i

s^^l

Ainf-worth.
„./. [horfe inA hair.]
The
hair of horfes.
His glitt'ring helm, which terribly
was grac'd
With waving Aor/fia/r.
j^fj^^

U your ramble was on bor/eback, I am glad of it,
00 account of your heA.
Sivlfi to Guy.
and

Horseheel. «./. An herb.
A Horselaugh,

bean.^^

Morllmcr.

A horftUugb, if you pleafe, at honeftyf

A joke on Jekyl.
Ho'rseleech.«./.

HoRSEBo'y. n. f [horft and
%.] A boy
employed in dreffing horfes a ftabJeboy.

Ut us to France

z.

them by

[borje

to the fuddle.
Under -Sagittarius are bom chariof-racers,
breaktr,, and tamers of wild bealts.

A tree.

Their whole year's (hoot is commonly
pertormed 10 three weeks time, after
which it does no '
more than increafcin bulk, and become
more firm

Tk.
L
r L r
1 he br.rfecbefnut

,
In the early times of
the

I

One that runs horfes, or keeps horfes
the race.

2.

for

A dealer in horfes.
A fcrvant 10 a b„f,courJer wu thrown off his

tiayward.

.

,

Roman commonwealth.

««i«d y"rly 'r/a millia ^,ls, and

Arbuibnot on Coin,.

A rider; a man on horfeback.

.

1

With defcendinglhow'rs of brimftone
fir'd
he wild barbarian in the Itorm
expir'd

Wrapt in devouring flames the hor/rman j

„.

fide.

n.f [from horfeman.]
of riding ; the art of managing
a

He vaulted with fiich eafe into his feat,

.

». /.

a plan

Ho'rsetongue. »./

To turn and wind a fiery I'rgafus,

„./. [horfe and W^y.]
broad way by which horfes

may travel,

Know'ft thou the way to
Dover
-Both ftile and gate, horfe-way, and
r

n

'"

^iTf'r"""*''''
mind
of their wive, and

'

3

adj.

not a hortatory fpeaker.

^h^'^'^^^^ultura,
rjin^Tr'''?-A
Latin.] The art of
cultivating

,

fell,

Pope.

footpath.

'•"' i">r«>ti'jes put me,

longing to a garden.

Ho'RstcRAB. n.f. A kind of fi(h. ^"^jT/.
'

/-

A

^''"'"ff-KitSiLear.

Ho'rtulav. aJf [hortulanus.

And witch the world with noble borfemanjhip.
1

"^

t.

An herb.

HoRSEWAV

/.,r/a/.rv fpeech,
I

As if an an«:l dropt down from the clouds.

ast

nut.

children.
^ Ba^t^
[from hortor Latin.
Encouraging; animating; advifing
to any
hing ; ufed of precepts,
not of peTfons ; a

Prior

Ho'rsemansh.p.
1 he art

a„d fieal.]

Shakefp. As you Htc it

/

Ho'rtatorv,

s

1 hy taper fliape, and comelincft of

[horfe

He IS not a pickpurfe, nor a
bo,f,JUaler ; but for
his verity in love, \ do
think him as con ave

in

A borfeman- coat ftiall hide

His majeily, to (hew hn borfem,nJhip,
'^^ flau^htercd
two or three ot his fubj.a,.
Addijon.
I eersgrew proud,
111 hofema'-JJ.ip C
excel) •
NcwBiirkel'. gtory refe, *: Biitain'i

Vol.. I.

/
A thief who takes away
horfes.

rag'd.

And fpurr'd the fteed in equal flames engag-d!//j'^,y5„.

m.nycmwnl'

A Florentine bought a horfe for fo

'•'"

a of exhorting; a hortatory
precept;
advice or encouragement
to fomeVhinR.
Hortative.;,./. p>om honor,
Latin.!
Exhortation; precept by
which one excites or animates,

foot-

'^°'°'".-

«,
^bakefpeare.
,
n hey pleafe themfelves
in terms of hunting or

upon conHiNon fo pay half down:
t\xt h-Ucourfer
<mt>n to him next morning for the remainder.

a'

«ST

An herb.

HoRstSTK'ALER

HoRTA'Trn»

LV^rr""
foot
foldier, one mtlle; that
is more than fixpence
a
day to a borfeman, and
twopence a day to a

Mortimer.
H,
ORSECOURJER. «.f. [ioufr wd Courier.

1.

,.

of

feet

ud cooi'd riow.
ng hot ID that furge, like a borfejhoe.
2.

Ho'rs e t A I l

foot, fo men on toot cannot
poffibly chafe borfemen.

a^ ,,
Miller.
grows intoa goodly ftandard.

Ju«iu, derives it from horfe and
cofe, an
oltJ Scotch word.which
fignifies to changeand It Ihould therefore, he
thinks
lie
writ bcrfeofer.
The word now ufcd in
Scotland Khorferoufer, to denote
a jockey
leller, or rather changer
of horfes
It
may well be derived from co:ne,
as he
that felJs horfes may be
fuppofed locourfe
-^
orexercifethem.j

horfco.
I was thrown into
the Thame.,

_

a battle on

in forming and ftrengthening
the bud. for the next

year s (hoots.

.

A plate of iron nailed to the

1.

ti

Encounters

Summer is occupied in

from
ground, that areVutor b™ke"

covered goblet, or a worm-eaten

between borfmen on the one fide, and
loot on the other, are feldom
with extremity of danger ; becaufe as borfemen can
h.irdly break

;

'"•^""'i'l hy fpt^uts fpreading

Lj./„
. ,,
Ho
R s E s H o E ».
/ [horfe wAfhoe.]

8

One fkilled in lading.
A fltilful borfeman, and a huntfman bred. DrjJ
2. One that ferves in wars on
horfeback.

female upon the fame fpike : the
female flowers are

of

'^

acids, as h^HelaJuh
'""J'rad,Jb
wine.
^'oyer on tbe Humourt.

1.

and

latter part of the

A

ix

Ho RS E M A N. n.f [horfe and man.]

:
the flowers,
of hve. leaves, are of an
anomalous
hgu/e, opening with two lips:
there are male

and all the

sb^ikefp.

\\!ipm leech: fignifying a phyfician.1

He that before thought he might command
the
waves of the fea, was now caft on
the ground, and
carried in an hc^felliier.
, m^c.

confift

«"'

Slomachicks are the crefli
«nd fcurvy-grafs, infufed in

"^'

along.

Uhath digitated or fingered leaves

hulks

Cive,

my bovs.

•
horfes, in which -•-'
the perfon
carried lyes
^

Crttcb

A

fcurvygrafs.

-

HoRSECHESxuT.a./. [htrft and chefnui.

race.]

Trajan, in the fifth year of
his tribunelhifr
tertaincd the people with
a ior/crace.

'-

«w/>-

A

"'"

''

AinfJorth.
„
*f
Ho'rselitter
«. /. [horfe and litter.]
A carriage bung upon
jpon poles between
betweeiiiwo
two

ind break.]

One whofe employment is to tame horfes

^

"<= <:"rious that there be
not the
» ^"^-^i""'
leaft^weight
up,n the one horfe more than
upon .h^

'1.

,v^°'(i"'"'''te
the
old roots left in the

"'"•

KjiolUa', Hijlory

[/:,r/e and
match of horfes in running.

^

[horfe anMetch.]

The ior/e/ffri hath two daughters, crying

;

Horsera'ce. «. /

p^^^

like borfekecbei,
The very blood to fuck.

and ^oj]

:

^

;

[horfe

pond for horfes.

A great leech that bites horfes.

I .

ufed in ferrying horfes.

Some Aor/fi^yj, being awake, difcovered

Ho'rsepond. n.f

in his raillr™

dioitrfZ ZS^,]

^^dlZ
A HoRSRRADisH
n.f [horfe
radijh.]
A root acnd and biting and
a fpecies

loud violent rude laugh.

idoRSE BLOCK, n.f. {horft and block
A
1]
block on which they climb to a horfe.
Horse BOAT. n.f. \horji and b»at.\ A bijat

and corner to battle like a

Awfiuonh.

n.f [horfe Ani laugh.]

fmall bean ufually given to horfes.
Only the fmall ho'febtan is propagated bv
the
uP'°"S''-

The fame

Ho'rsehair.

Dry den' I ^m.

,,

An herb.

n.f.
with coltsfoot.

he wasi,/,,/.
When mannilh Mevia, that two-handed whore,
Aftridc on borfeback hunts the Tufcan boar.

cSei
^oane.

-P J'
J
rough, rugged play.
He IS too much given to bor/etlav

A fly that

Kings horfes. and fucks their blood.

Ho'rsefoot.

that

fliell,

only g.pe and fl.ut as the
one place to another.

Hc'rseplav. n.f [horfemdiky.]

Bacon

L'EJirang,e

HoRStFLY.«./. [hotfemdfly.]

borfemufcle, with the fine

and fome

!

Beheld them when they lighted.
Shakefp.
Alexander fought but one remarkable
battle
wherein there were any elephants, and
that was
With Porus, king of India ; in which
notwithftanding

.

The great

breedeth in ponds, do not

with a good piece of borfefttjh but
the nag he
thought would be too fleet for him.

Sbalrjp.

I faw them falute on horfciack.

which

Bacon,

U«/»Horsemint. n.f A large coarfe mint,
HeRSEMuscLE. „.f A large mufcle.

An old hungry lion would fain have been dealins

I've feen the French,
And they can well on korfeback.

Efculus.]

it

oyfteis do, but remove from

The Chinefe eat horfepjh at this day,
gluttons eat colt's fleOi baked.

pofture; the ftate of being on a horfe.

Horse BREAKER. „. f.

let

Peacbam on Drawing.

fleih of horfes.

Horseback. »./. [hcr/e znA back.] Riding

tl.e fare in their nutches.

Though green peas and beans be eaten
fooner, yet
the dry ones that are ufed
for horfemeat are ripe lalt

Horsee'mmet. n. /. [borfe and emmet.]
Ant of a large kind.
Ho'rseklesh.*./ [^<,r/Jand>/.] The

Sbakeffcart.

[horfe

vender.

The

excrements of horfes.

Are finother'd, leads are fill'd, and ridges hon'd
With variable complexions ; all agreeing

Horses ea'n n. /.

HoRSEMATCH.^.y: A bird. Ainjnjcorth.
HeRSEMEAT. n.f [horfe 2.nA meat.] Pro"

Mortimer.

rr
HoRSEDUKG.
tuf. [horfe zniduug.]

Ainjiuorth.

rT_,

'

garden.

To ride any thing.

If

Ho'rsemarten. «./. A kind .of large bee.

I

b^rfccucumber is the Urged green cucumber,
and the bell for the uble, green out of the

Stalls, bulks, windows

4.

A plant.

her.]

Who anfwered. It is

Elmo, who never appears but after the ftorm.
Baton.
2. To carry one on jjic back.
St.

3.

HOS

Ho'rsecucumber. n.f. [ierfeaad citeum-

youT!"."

'^fr

"'

Be

'""" "'"'''" °' my *»««/-« kalendari,

HosA'NNA. nf[i.,„,]
of praife to God.
•,. ,
.,
It founded,

gardens.

dtin.]

AnexcIamSn

Through the vaft of heav'n
and .he faithful armies rung
"""'«''="•

^
Mi/„n.

The

O S
HOST. «./. \hilit, French; hojpes, hofpUis,

wai ccltbraicd with the 60/iiitHtit and acclaFiJei.
mations of the people.
»./. plur. ixi/eir. [hofa, Saxon j

rufalein

HOSE.

Va», Wellh

offaa,

;

Erfe ;

One who gives entertainment to another.
Homer never entertained cithcrguefts or hofis with

plur.

ofaitcit,

long fpeeches,

French.
1. Breeches.
Shakeff.
Here's an Englifti taylor come hither for ftealing
Shakeff.
cut of a French U/e.

till

3.

being in love, could not fee to garter his bofe
love, cannot

fee to put on your

Will (he thy linen wa(h, or to/en darn,
And knit thee gloves ?

ib arrant a cockney, as any bofiir in CheapGde.
Sivifl.

ftrangers;

to ilrangcrs.
1 'm your hoft
With robbers' hand my boffitaliU favour

but let ill tidings tell
Themfclves, when they be felt.

Sbakefp.

Receive the ihip-wreck'd on your friendly Ihorc ;

Drjdtn.
With boffUable ritcsrelieve thepoor.
Ho'sp I T A B L Y. adnj, [from hofpitable.l With
kindnefs to ftrangers.

Ye thus hojfitabiy live,
Pr/w.
And llrangers with good cheer receive.
The former liveih as pioufly and hoffUMy as the

Latin.]

A place built for the reception of the

eld,

IVotioti,

1

am about to build an hoJfUal, which I will en-

Lords have had the leading of their own followers
Sfenfer on Ireland.

to the general bofiings.

French.]
One
given in pledge for ftcurity of performance of conditions.
Your bafiages I have, fo have you mine
Sbakeffeare.
And we fhall talk before we fight.

Ho'sTAGE.

Addifon.

Obfolete.
They fpy'd a goodly caftle, plic'd

[hqffitalite,

French.]

The practice of entertaining ftrangers.
The Lacedemonians forbidding all accefs of ftrangers into iheir coalls, are, in that refpeft, defcrvedly
blamed, as being enemies to that hoffilalily which,

And little recks to find the way to heav'n
By doing deeds of A^iVa/Vy. Shakeff. Aiyou like it.

How has thisfpint of faction broke all the laws of
charity ,^ neighbourhood, alliance, and hoffitaliiy.
S-wifi.
.

hofpiialariui,

low Latin, from

Aiterbury.
having felzed a great number of
boflagts, acVjuainted them with their refolulion.
Arbutbnot on Coins.

Ho'sTEL.

1

Ho'sTELRY.

)

HO'STRY. «./. [corrupted from hojielry.]
A place where the horfes of guefts are kept.
Swift rivers are with fudden ice conftrain'd.

And ftudded wheels are on its back fuftain'd ;
An boftry now for waggons, which bcfofie
Tall ihips of burden on its bofom bore.

Dr/den't Georg,

HOT. adj.

[hac, Saxon ; hat. Scottifli.]
Having the power to excite the fenfe of
heat ; contrary to cold ; fiery.
What is thy name

1

— Thou'ltbe
^—

call'ft thyfelf a better name
Than any is in hell.
Sbakefp. Macbeth.
The great breezes which the motion of the air in

great circles, fuch as are under the girdle of the
world, produceth, do refrigerate ; and therefore, ia
thofe parts, noon is nothing fo bot as about nine in
the forenoon.
Bacon,

Hot and cold were in one body fixt

And foft with hard, and light with heavy mixt.
Dryden,
Black fubftances do fooneft of all others become
hut in the (tin's light, and burn ; which etTeiS may
proceed partly from iIk: multitude of refraiHions in a
little room, and partly from eafy commotion sf fo

\hJfitor, Latin.]
To refuie under the roof oi another.
a.

chufes an empty (hell, and this
in the fame IhcU.
beffilatti with the living aniraal

That always

Cirexu'i Mufttum.

Luftful ; lewd.

What bolter hours,
Unregi(ler'd in vulgar fame, you have
Luxurioully pick'd out.

Now the bot blooded gods afTift me
Jove, thou was't a bull for thy Europa.

Fn]

remember,
Sbakefp,

warning of our coming, was one of the botiejl ferand moft dangerous affaults that hath been
Bacon.
known.
He refolved to ftorm ; but his foldiers declined
the hot fervice, and plied it with artillery. Clarendon,
To court the cry direfts us, when we found
viccs,

Th' affault fo iot, as if 'tv.ere only tiicre. Denbam,
Our army
Dryden,
Is now in iot engagement with the Moors.

Shakeff. Macbeth,

Ye were beaten out of door.
Shakeff.

Be as kind an bo^efs as you have been to me, and
Dryden.
you can never fail ot another hulhand.
z.

Shaiefprarr,
!

Violent; furious ; dangerous.
That of Carthagena, where the Spaniards had

3.

Fair and noble hiftefs.

And rail'd upui the hojieft of the houfe.

Newton,

very fmallcorpufcles.

2.

tertainment.

We are your gueft to night.

afraid to hear it.

—No, though thou

A female hoft; a woman that gives en-

I.

receive the poor or ftranger. Ufcd perhaps
peculiarly of the knii^hts of Malta..

1

horfeback, and boftUrs to tend their horfes by the
Sfenfer on Ireland.

He's r ESS, »./. \hofifJfe, French, from Aij/?.]

hoJpital.\

The &rft they reckon fuch as were granted to the
bJfitalleri in tiiulum benefcii. AyJiJfe'x Farergpn.

»./. [hoftel, hafteUrie,
An inn.

be permitted is

way.

The Romans

;

One rcfiding in an hofpital, in order to

To Ho'sp TATE, v.

The caufe why they arc now to

want of convenient inns for lodging travellcit on

of it.

My

I

and have carried on even our boflilitiet
with humanity.
Atterbury.
verfaries ;

great cnterprifes, either of virtue or mifcliief.iSaron.
They who marry give bcflages to the publick, that
they will not attempt tlie ruin or difturb the peace

for common humanity's fake, all the nations on ihe
Hooker.
eirlh (hould embrace.
mafterisof a churlifli difpolition.

H o's r T A L L E R ». /. [ho/pitallier, French

\ojiage,

Bid him demand what pledge will plcafe him beft.
Sbakefp.
He that hath wife and children, liath given
brjiagei, to fortune; for they are impediments to

l-'aity S^uee/i.

Milton.

We have (hew'd ourfelves fair, nay» generous ad-

Do this meffage honourably ;
And if he ftand on bofiage for his fafely,

Foreby a river in a plcafant dale,
Wliich clijfing for that evening's boffital,

Hospita'lity. »./.

a. /.

bcftiliiy and hate,

Untam'd reluctance and revenge f

Obfolete.

A place for (belter or entertainment.

They thither march'd.

But, to our pow'r,

To review a body of men ; to mufter.

3.

dow handfomcly for twelve old hulbandmen.
a.

Hayv/arJ.

What peace can we return.

Shakeff.

Strange to us it feem'd
At (irft, that angel ihould with angel war,
Milton.
And in fierce bofiingi meet.
New authours of difTcntion fpring from him.
contend
Two branches, that in boding long
Philips.
For fov'reign fway.

HO'SPITAL. «./. \hofpUal, French; bojfick; or fupport of the poor.
They who were fo eaieful to bcftow them in a
college when they were young, would be fo good as
to provide for them in fome boffital when they are

:

The
Latin; hofiie, French.]
facrifice of the mafs in the Romith church;
The confccrated wafer.
To Host. v. n. [from the noun.]
1. To take up entertainment; to live, as at
an inn.
Go, bear it to the centaur, where we hofi ;
And (lay there, Dromio, till 1 come to thee, Sbak.
2. To encounter in battle.

!>»;//.

other.

Sbakefp,

H'flility being thus fufpeoded with France, preparation was made for waragainft Scotland.

[Ihjlia,

5.

You Ihould not ruffle thus.

Neither by trealon nor bofiitily

To feek to put me down and reign thyfelf.

Ho'sTLER.w./ \hofieller, ftom io/iel,] OflC
who has the care of horfes at an inn.

Give to a gracious melTage

An hoft of tongues

kind

Dryden.

French, from

The praftices of an open enemy;
open war; oppofition in war.

Any great number.

4.

HCSPITABLE. adj. [ho/pitabilis, Latin.]

[hojlilite,

hojlile.']

After thefe came arm'd with fpearand (hield.
Dryden.
An heft fo great as cover'd all the field.

flockings.

I ,

Hosti'lity. »./.

The numbers of our hoft.
Shakeff. Macbeth.
Then through the fiery pillar, and the cloud,
God looking forth, will trouble all \i\ibofi.
Milton.
And craK their chariot wheels.

Dryden.

Ho'siER. »./. \iiova ho/e.'\ One who fells

fitalis,

Added to boftile force, ftiall urge ihy fate.

[From hcjlis, Latin.] An army ; numbers
alTembled for war.
Let every foldier hew him down a bough,
Andbear't before him, thereby (hall we (hadow

Sbaie/peare.

iofe.

Giving entertainment to

Fierce Juno's hate.

But with his arms oiit-ltrctch'd, as he would fly,
Grafps in the comer.

2. Stockings ; covering for the legs.

and you, being in

He has now at laft

Shakeff eare's Trcilui and Crefpda.

HuJiiraj.

Latin.] Advetfej

Giv'n hafti/e Utokes, and that not in the prefeoce
Of dreaded juftice, baton the miniften
That do diftribute it.
Shakeff,

Time's like a falhionable bofi.

Dax. iii. zi.

He crofs cxamin'd both our bofe.
And plunder'd all we had to lofe.

[hojiili,,

oppofite ; fuitable to an enemy.

the mouth of hunger be Itopped.
-Sidney.

That (lightly Ihakes his parting gueft by th' hand

Thefe men were bound in their coats, hcftn,
hats, and other garments, and caft into the midit of

you're welcome (irs.

Shakeff,

HO'STILE.fl<^-.

The landlord of an inn.

2.

my father's will I Ihould lake on me

The boflrjfi-fhif a' th' day ;

Here, father, take the (hado\v of this tree
For your good bofi.
Sbakefp. King Ltar,

Guards on wanton Cupid's io/?.

the fiery furnace.

It is

Latin.]
1.

cbaujfe,

He

HOT

H

HOS
The puWic jntijnce which Chrift fflaie into ]e-

4.

A woman that keeps a houfe of publick

Nature to youth bot ralhnefs doth difpenfe,
But with cold prudence age doth recompenl'e. Denbam,

entertainment.
Undiftinguifti'd civility ijlike awhoreora bofirfs.

Achilles

Temfie.

Ho'sT ESS-SHI P. ». /. [from bofte/s.l
charafler of an hoilcfs.

The

Ardent; vehement; precipitate.
Come, come, lord Mortimer, you are as (low,
As bet lord Percy is on fire to g ».
Shakefpearc,

is

impatient, bot,

revengeful ; iSneas,

patient, confidcrate, and careful of his people.

5.

Dryd,

Eager; keen in defirc.
it IS no weoder that men,, either perplexed, in the

cccelfary

HOT

HO V

of life, or hoi in the purfuit of
pleafure, (hould not ferioufly examine their tenets.

H O U

ntceflTary afFairs

,'"''' '"*''*"^' l"-'"?'

pTh* confufion than
Babellilh

Locke

A mixture of many difagreeing colours

unpleafant to i),e eye, and a
mixture or hotchfotch
ot many taftes is unpleafant

Huc/iiras.

to the tafte.

6. It 13 applied likewife to the defire, or
fenfe raifing the defire, or aflion excited

Hut a malh'J heap, a hotchfotch oi

Nor law, nor checks of confcience will we hear,

7. Piquant;

acrid:

Ho'tbed. «./.

as,

A man violent, paffionate, precipitate,
My

nephew's trefpafs
It hath the excufe of

Wars are begun by hairbrained dilVolute

novators.

...

2.

hement ;

lenfelelsjudgment.

1.

violent; paffionate.

for

Ho THoi-SE. n.f. [hot and houfe.'\
A bagnio a place to fweat and cup in
\ .

Now (he prol'effes a hothmfe, which ii a very

heufetoo.

2.

A brothel.

Sbakejfearc-, Meafurcfor

;

lo
whore.

And ftiU be r whorehoufe
rr

:

1.

With heat; not coldly.

.

In Ihortand m'lfty ftraw f Sbake/feare;

do conleft
As hotly and as nobly with thy love.

Contend .gamft thy valour.
Shakeff. Corolla„u,
The enemy, now at hand, began holly

1.

2.

10 hunt;

to purfue.

If the wolves had been bounded
(hould have worried them.

Ho'oNDFisH,*./.

Cifle feek creeks.

A

by fygers, they
L'Eflrange
kind offilh. Mufiel'a
Airtf'worth.

..

Ah, my poor princes!

and

Air.f<w.

.

,

.

Houp. n.f. [upupa, Latin.]

^I"'l"/t-f^'"'gj<'i»'.

ah, my tender babes'

If yet your gentle fouls fly in the

Drfder,

m.,uthA

8.

air,

Dryden.

That t^^mouihd bead that beat,
againft the curb.
Hard to be broken.
Dry den '. Spanijh Fryer
HoTKEss •. /, [from hot.^, Heat;
violence; fury.

The captive breaks herprifon's mould'ring walls:

Ho'rcHPor.
Ho re HOOTCH.

Which now the pile, or fepulchre, contains,
And thence with liberty unbounded flies,

our

as the earthly part decays

^^^J'.

The twenty-fourth part of a natural day;
the fpace of fixty minutes.

That funder'd friends greet in the hour of death.
Shakefp.

,,,,

When we can intreat an hour to ferve.
We'll' fpend it in fome words upon that

bufinefs,

If you would grant the time. Shakefpcare's

From the firft moment of his vital breath.

Pope.

To ftand in fufpenfc or expeftation.

The landlord will no longer covenant with him

Maibelb.

The confcious wretch muft all his arts reveal,

Prior.

Some left refin'd, beneath the moon's pale light.

Hover, and catch the (hooting ftars by night.

Sbak,

Vexation almoft flops my breath.

and falls.

Impatient to legain her native (kies.

2.

-Jara, Latin.]

A particular time.

z.

timers a-while upon the fad remains.

7 «. f.

A

the bridee.

andfottlinguponit.
1 ill

Ainftuorth.
;

See the minutes how they run

And feat d his eyes in everlaliing night.

Oreat fi.ghu ol birds are havering about

The puet.

How many makes the hour full complcat.
How many hours bring about the day.
How many days will finilh up the year.
How many years a mortal man may live.

Shakefp.
„
AAtbmer-ng mift
came fwimming o'er his fight.

,' f"r my people's faith.

[hachi en toche.
French; or A;;.i';;'en
}
><>/, French, as Camden has
it, as beine
boiled up in a pot; yet the
former corruj)tion IS now generally
ufed.l
mingled hafh; amixture;
atonfufedmafs.
Such paiehing maketh I.jliIeton-|
bachfot of

HOUR. »./ [^i'»r<'. French

And be not fix'd in doom perpetual.
Homer about me with your airy wings.
And hear your mothcr'» lamentation.

breed.

And argely drink, becaufeo.i fait they feed.

MilUr.

To hang in the air over head, without Ho'uNDTREE. n.f. A kind of tree. Comta.

Some fier)' devil h'.iieri in the (ky,
And pours down mifchief.

^°^''-

Voracious birds, that holly bill and

Headftrong; ungovernable.

King Lear.

flying off one way or other.

difpuT^

[hot

Cod is faid to harden the heart permiffively, but
not operativcly nor effeflually ; as he
who only lets
greyhound out of the flip, is faid to bound
him at the hare.
Branthall.

Ho'uNDSTONOUE. ». / [cynogloffum, Lat.]

Though Ihii controverfy be revived,
and boti
H.>«cd. 1 doubt whether it be not a nominal
3. Luftfully.

Prior.

loofe a

^^f"''-

» (kirmilh
m divers pUce, with, he Chrirt.ans. K^IU.UH^^y

adj.

Purfues the noted path and covets home.

To Hound, -v. a. [from the noun.]
2, To fet on the chafe.

A plant.

As ever in ambitious lirength I did

Hotmou'thed.

The kind fpaniel and the faithful bound,
Likeft that fox in rtiape and fpecies found,

tumefied.

If cheefc be fo hoveo, make

he
Sidnev
•''

1

To

Tom Piper hath boven and puficd up cheeks:

2. Violently; vehemently.
The (lag was in the end fo holly
purfued, that

was driven to make courage of defpair.

W

The boar, and flew an undcferving hound.
And through the dog the dart was naii'd to ground.

Ho'yza. fart paj. [i:om hta-ve.] Raifed;
fwelled:

A

[•>«"*>. Saxon; /5««</, Scot-

Shakr/feare's Macbeth.
, ,
,
Jalon threw, butfail'd to wound

And was't thou fain, poor father.
To iow/ thee with fwine and rogues forlorn,

Sen jfobtfin,

noTLY, adv. [horn hot.]
.

••/"•

dog ufed in the chafe.
Hounds and greyhounds, mungrels, fpaniels,
curs.
Are clcped all by the name
dogs.

flielter in an hovel.

th'are fynonyma.

I

Fairfax.

T>

1

tilh.]

a cottage.

HovEL.t;, a. [from the noun.]

m

•Jl

Bacon.

.

W/f

Tells you it js a boibou/e; fo it may.

ry

Or as the wind, in bolls and (hady greaves,

tj/-\T

Creation.

Where lately harbour'd many a famous

t

A murmur makes among the boughs and leaves.

with them, where they feed them
and
milk them, and do all the dairy-work in
fuch forry
and (heds as they build to inhabit in
during
thefummer.
Ruy on the

ill

A finall

[holr, Saxon.]
Obfoletc.

overhead.

The men clamber up the acclivities, dragging

Meafure

A purging bill, now fix'd upon the door,

HouLT. n.f.

their kine

;

retain it.

Itill

houfe,

wood.

A mean habitation

2.

Arbutb«ot.

;,. /.
The vulgar name for an
The Scots and northern countiei

owl.

A fhed open on the fides, and covered

.

ftheme of

a

Jo/h. ii. 6.

Neither could we hough ax
if \t from us; much
we fnceie or cough.
Grew

Your ha, it is mow'd, your corn it is rcap'd
Your bams will be full, and your boveU heap'd.

ftanding army and publick liberty ; nor
a huheaied

to difable by cutting the

lels could

Pcachum.

'^';j*'''=-.

for a

;

Ho UL ET.

If you make a hoTjel, thatched,
over fome quantity
of ground, plank the gtound over, and
it will breed

Ve-

One would not make the fameperfon lealouj

Hough,
To hamftring

Thou (halt bou^h their horfes.

So likewife will a hovel ferve for a roome.
To (lack on the peafe, when harveRihall come.

Gay.

lower part of the thigh.

2.

that hot.

Ho'vEL. «r./. [Diminutive of Jjoce,

Arbmhnot and Pope,
As at botcKklei once I laid me down,
And felt the weighty hand of many a clown,
Buioma gave a gentle tap, and I

coxcomb forward

like

Move. The preterite of i6c<2T^f.

for

that was by pinching, not by rtriking.

crackbrained
moderation.

Venus

only ho^.err

To cut up With an hough or hoe.
Ve- .1. To hawk. This orthography is
uncommon. See To Hawk.

heady.
or

it

finews of the ham.

oaxon.]

The chytindra is certainly not our bolcocklet;

hement;

1.

Jfurred Harpahce in Virgil, this proceedeih from a

Fr.j

[hot and bead.\

rafh ;

'f he

To draw Mars like a young Hippolytus, with an

etteminatc conntenance,

guefles who ftrikes him.

Hothea'ded. adj.

J

ihtbct/fur is thefpeedieftof any ingrowth. iV/or//»>rr

list and irain.] Viovehement; furious. Ctrebrofus.
You (hall find 'em either AofiramV youth.
Or needy bankrupts.
DryJen's Sfamjh Fryar

Quick rofe, and read foft mifchief in her eye.

»„,,„_
Durton,

A kind of pea of fpeedy growth.

lent;

[hautet coquiUei,

captains,

unquiet Ao//5>«n,
and reftlefs in-"^

HoTSPuRRED. a,/,-, [from/^o^ar.l

A play in which one covers his eyes; and

the other,

An

Of fuch peas as are planted or fown in the gardens,

Hotbra'ined.<7^-.

HoTCo'cKLES. n. /.

may be well forgot
youth and heat of

paralitical fwarmers,

Evelyn.

in

Blood (hall be from the fword unto
the belly, and
dung of men unto thioimdShcgh.
2 E/d. xiii. 36.
^'
adz;
an hoe. See Hoe.
'•J
^,?^''.
Uid they really believe that a man,
by boughs and
an axe, could cut a god out of a
tree ?
StiUingJcet.
lo
'v. a. [from the noun.]

blood,
A harebrain'd hot/fur govern'd by a fpleen.
Shake/.

Bacon.

/

itfelf of itj

I.

^/ as muftard.

u poffible from rain.

Addifon.
certainty isfeen, and the mind tuliy

;

;he flain. Dryd.

and heady.

The bed we ziWihoibed'n this: there was taken
horfedun^, old and well rotted ; this was laid
upon
a bank half a foot high, and fupported round
about
with planks, and upon the top was call fifted
earth

of our confederates.

.

Hough. »./. fhoj, Saxon.]

by the fermentation of dung.

TT

poffefTes

t

1.

A bed of earth made hot

frefcrve the hotbed as much

.

Ho Tsp UR. ,/./. [hot and /pur.]

Dryd<n.

two fingers deep.

Tu
I he truth and

Bacon.

Nor limbs, nor bones, nor carcafs would remain

as, a hot purfuit.

When in iot fcent of gain and full career.

We fee fo warlike a prince at the head of fo g«a»

an army, hovering on the borders

ever

is

To wander about one place.

3.

Camden*s Remains.

She has, quoth Ralph, a jointure.

Which makes him have lb 601 a mind t' her.
,

the fame rather to a
any one entire language.

3.
J

for that he daily looketh after
change and alteration,
and boveretb ia expeftitioa of new worlds.

Spin/,, or. Irelund,

To hislaft Wr of unrepcnting death. Dryden's/En,
The time as marked by the clock.
The hour runs through the rougheft day. Shakefp.
Our neiehbour let her floor to a genteel man, who

kept good 4o«r*.
* f »

Tatler

The}

HOU

HOU
They are ai loud any hour of the moTDingi ai our
Addifoti.
owii countrymen »t midnight.

By

my laft

delaying

fine,

upon your grace's

A glafs filled with fand, which, running

feem to have made a forfeiture.

through a narrow hole, marks the time.

Two of a bouje few ages can afford,

1.

A poet

Ncit morning, known to be a morning better by

.

Hidmy,
the liourgl.ifi than the day's clearnefs.
In ficknefs, the time will feem longer without a
clock or hourghfs than with it ; fot the mind doth

7.

Space of time. A manner of fpeaking
rather afFefted than elegant.
We, within the hourglafs of two months have

not bom in ev'ry race f

of both houjes, cTpecially that of the lords.

King Charles.

To Hoi/sK. T. a. [from the noun.]
Palladius wilhed him to boufe all the Helots.

Sidney.

Upon the North-fea a valley hoiifeth a gentleman,

who hath worn out his former name.

Care^v.

For ever houfed where it gets pofTeltion.

Mere cottagers are but houfed beggars.
Oh, can your counfel his defpair defer.
Who now is boufed in his fepulchre ?

Alcyone

Computes how many nights he had been gone,

2.

frequently.
She deferres a lord.

To Ihelter

Sbaktffeare.

HaiarJ fo near us, as doih hourly grow

Surround me, as thou faw'll ; hourly conceiv'd.

much benefited by that acutenefs.

Sparrows mult not build in his houfe eaves. Sbat.
Hoafei are built to live in, not to look on ; therefrre ki ufc be preferred before uniformity, except
Bacon.
irvhere both may be had.
In a houfe the doors are moveable, and the rooms
fouare.
I'tjuare ; yet the houfe\% neither moveable nor
mttlt.

ftench.
Ate from their hives and houfei driven away. Sbahf.

Place in which religious or ftudious persons live in common ; monaftery ; college.

Throdofius arrived at a religious houfe in the
Addifon.
city, where now Cnnflantia refided.
manner of living ; the table.
4.

The

He kept a miferable houje, but the blame was
Swift.

5. Station of a planet in the heavens, aflrologicaily confidered.
I'uie fpirjtual fubrtances we cannot converfe with,

therefore have need of means of communication,
which fome make to be the cclcftial Ao«/^t; ihofe
who are for the celcftial Asa/irj worlhip ihe planets
as

the

habilatiojis

of

intellcitlual

animate them.

fubflanccs

that

Slillingflrct.

6 Family of anceftors ; defcendants, and

Housebrea'ker. ». /. \^l}oiife and bretik.\
Burglar; one who makes his way into

Housebrea'king. n.f, \hoiife and ireai.]
Burglary.
he

will fend the

owrcy fuje

[hoitfi

and

</(!f.]

I .

old boufedog,

Addifon.

Ho'usEHOLD. n.f. [^o«/?and holi.'\

IVotton,

One who lives much at home.

How do you both ? You are manifefl boufeketfers.
What arc you fewing there ?
Shakefp, Coriolanus.
4. A woman fervant that has care of a family, and fuperintends the other maid
fervants.
Merry folks, who want by chance

A pair 10 make a country-dance,
Call the old houfekeeper, and get her,.

A

To
5.

fill

a place lor want of belter.

A houfcdog.

Two houfebolds, both alike in dignity.
In fair Verona, where we lay ourfccne.
From ancient grudge break to new mutiny.
Sbakefpeare.
little kingdom is a great boufehold, and a great
houfehold a little kingdom. Z>'*i<re«'s./4</f/« to VilUers,

A

Of God obferv'd
Theonejuft man alive, by his command,
Shall build a wond'rous ark, as thou beheld'fl,.

To fave himfelf and houfehold liom amidft

Diftinguifh ihe houfekeeper, the hunter.

Ho'usEKEEPiNG.

adj.

[houfi

Shakefp,

and

keef,'^

Milton.

His houfe for pleafant profpeit, large fcope, and
houfekceping commodities, challengeih the
pre-eminence.
Cartw.
other

Ho'usEKEEPiNC. n.f, Hofpitality

hear your grace halh fworn out boufekeeping,
Sbakefpeare,
His table « as one of the lall that, gave us an
example of the old houfekerping of an Englilh noble*
man: an abundance reigned, which Ihewed the
mailer's hofpitality.
Prior.

Ho'usEL, ». /.

men a peculiar houfehold of his love, which at

Gothick,

all

limes he

and governed

liberal

1

of

(he p tofcr houfthold of faith : in

;

and plent/ful table.

He has always taken to himfelf, amongfl the fons
h.is chcriflicd as a father,

Swift,

Not in ufe.

Domeftick; ufeful to a family.

I. A family living together.

tiiis it

one that ex-

The people are apter to applaud houfekeepers than

A

miiftiff kept to guard the houfe.
very good boujedcg^ but a dangerous cur to
flrangers, had a bell about his neck,
L*Eftrange.
You fee the goodnefs of the matter even in the

as a mailer :

;

ercifes hofpitality.

Szuift.

». f.

The fatal colours of our ftviving houfei. Shakeffeare.
lijc iawlul

whole paper to

the government.

A world devote to univerlal wreck.

An ignominious ranfom and free pardoa

_

One who lives in plenty
houfcraifers.

All boufebreakers and fharpers had thief written
in their foreheads.
L'Eftrange.

Ho'usEDi G.

LoJle

excclivcly.

2.

houfes to fteal.

or houfebreaking,

Sbakefpeare.

may credit houfekeepers mi fubflantial tradef-

men, all forts of provifions and commodities are rifen

houfing in the lion's hateful fign.

Bought fenates, and deferting troops are mine. Dryd.

kindred; race»
The red rofe and the while are on his face.

At; 01 two tiiijei ;

If I

When he hears of a rogue to be tried for robbing

The bees with fmoke, the doves with noifome

Houfeholder; mafter of a family.

Scholar.

Dryden.

Any place of abode.

[hott/f and iee/i.]

To be faid an honed man and a good houfekeeper,.
goes as fairly as to fay a graceful man and a great

In fear of this, obferve the ftarry figns.

1

laid wholly upon madam.

1.

Where Saturn boufes, and where Hermes joins.

human abode.

3.

Ho'usEKEEPER. n.f.

heavens.

;

A place wherein a man lives; a place of

2.

much coftly houfeboldfluff.
Bacon.
The woman had her jell for )mx houfeboldfluff.
L'Eftrange,

Milton.

To have an aftrological ftation in the

2.

hnft, Scottifh.]
1.

In this war that he maketh, he IliU flieth from his
and lurketh in the thick woods, wailing for
advantages: his cloke is his bed, yea and his houfeboldjlug.
Spenfer on Ireland.
A great part of the building was confumed, with
foe,

Sbakffpeare,

Locke.

HOUSE. ». /. [huj-, Saxon; buys, Dutch

Furniture of an houfe ; utenfik
convenient for a family.

too foon.

After fo Ihort time of breath,
'Xoboufe with darknefs and with death.

boufehtld.'\

fluff.'\

Summers three times eight, fave one.

dial ; the plate on which the hours, point-

[from

A certain boufeboldcr planted a vineyard. Mi/, xxi.
Ho'usEHOLDSTUFF. n.f. [houfehold and

Craze where you will, you Ihall not houfe with me.

alas !

«. /.

Matter of a family.

Ne fulfer it to houfe there half a day. Hubb. 'Tale.

She had told ;

Stuift.

Ho'usEHOi.DER.

;

;

The

what o'clock it was, their owner could not be

Bacon.

To take fhelter to keep abode to refide.

1

ed by the hand of a clock, are infcribed.

fee

1 1 would be endlefs to enumerate the oaths among
the men, among the women the negleft oi houfehold

affairs.

To House, -v. n.

!

If the eyes could not view the hand, and the chaand thereby at a dillance

In woman, than to ftudy houfehold ymi ;
And good works in her hufband to promote. Milton.

Dryden.

Great was their ftrife, which hourly was rcncwM,

railers of the bourflale,

For nothing lovelier can be found

to keep under a roof.
As we bcu/e not country plants to fave them, fo

'Till each with moit.il hate hisrival.vicw'd. Drydtn.

Ho'u RP t ATE. K.y. \hour and plate.'\

Ads, X. 7.

Houfe your choicefl carnations, or rather fet them
under a penthoufe, to preferve them in extremity of
Evelyn.
weather.
Wit in northern climates will not blow.
Except, like orange trees, 'tis hous'd from fnow.

That twenty fuch rude boys might tend upon,

And hourly born, with forrow infinite
Milion'i I'aradife Loft.
To me

Shake/f.
Bacon.

;

we may houfe out own to forward them.

It is ufed in the manner of an ailjeaivc,

to fignify domeflick ; belonging to the
family.
Comeliuscalled twoof hisiie/^is/i/fervanti.

Sandys.
We find them boufing themfelves in dens. South,
In expcdlation of fucn times as thefe,
A chapel hous'd 'em, truly call 'd of eafe. Dryden.

Obferves the waining moon with hourly view.
Dryden.
Numbers her age, and wilhes for a new.
Wc muft live in buurly expeilation of having ihofe
troops recalled, which ihey now leave with us. Siu'ift.

Siuifi,

Family life ; domeftick management.
An inventory, thus importing
The feveral parcels of his plate, his treafure.
Rich IVuffs, and ornaments oi boufehold. Sbaktffeare,

3.

SLinder lives upon fuccefTion

repeated.

Shakefptarc's Hamlet.
Out of his lunacies.
They with ceafelefs cry

2.

To harbour; to admit to refidence.

1.

or done every hour; frequent; often

And h')urly call her miftrefs.
Oureftate may not endure

Sviifi,

In his own church he keeps a feat.
Says grace before and after meat;
Attd calls, without affc^ing airs.
His houfehold twice a-day to prayers.

as to give convincing fatisfaftion to the major part

Happening

Ho'uRLY. <j/v. [from>&o«/-.] Every hour;

With her world's fruiilul fyftem in her facredark.

Nor were the crimes obje<5lcd againlt him fo dear

town, and ovcnhiown great forces in the
Bacon.

Ho'uRLT. adj. [from hour.'\

is

commons colleftively confidered.

value every moment.
Shake not \\\shiuTglafs, when his hafty fand
DrydtnUSfamJbFryar.
Is ebbing to the lift.

field.

Sfratt,

Great crimes muft be with greater crimes repaid.
And fecond funerals on the former laid;
I.et the whole houfchuld in one ruin fall.
And may Diana'scurfeo'crtakeusall. t)ryd. Fableu
Learning's little boufehold did embark.

I

One to perform, another to record. Drydertx Fables.
A body of the parliament ; the lords or

Bacon.

-uott one

may

Dryden.

accelTion to the patrimonies of your bcufe,

Ho'uRGLASs. a.y; [ifcoBr and^/r7/}.]

2.

HOU
the firft ages of the world, 'twas fometimes literally,
no more than a finglc houfehold, or fome few families.

Shaiefjieart.

Is nothing kin to foul redemption.

[hufl, Saxon, from hiinfel,
or hofiia, dimin.
1 he holy eucharift.
hoftioLi, Latin.]
a

facriHce,

To

HOW

HOU
To

To HousEL, "v. a. [from the nonn.]
give or receive the eucharift.
noun and verb are obfolete.

Ho'usELEEK. n. /.

\honfe

-_

A
2.

plant.

Miller.

The accrbs fupply their quantity of cftider acids

;

Wanting

Your loop'd and window'd raggedncfs, defend you ?

mji.

Ho'usEMAio. w. /. \houfe zni maid.']

A

maid employed to keep the houfe clean.
The hou/emaid may put out the candle againft the
looking glafs.

Stvifi.

Ho'uSF.KOOM, «./; [hott/e iai. room.'[ Place

firft

How long wilt thou refufe to.humble thyfelf before

now frequently written, hu/'wi/e, or

Exodus.
H(ru' much better is it to get wifdom than gold f
and to get underftanding, rather to be chofen than

he miftrefs of a family.
You will think it unfit for a good bavfnvift to

'I""?
Pnrverii.
Howoh is the candle of the wicked put out i And
hov) oft comcih their deilruflion upon them ?
J^i.
bi-w love I thy law, it is my meditation. Pfalms.

Ho'usEWiFE. w./ [^bou/t and luife.'^ This
is

'I

ftir

O

in or to bufy herfelt about her houfcwifery.

Sprnfrr an Irtland.
I have room •nough, but the kind and hearty
houfnuife is dead.
Pope to SzLift.

A female ceconomift.

Fining is a mantle for a bad man, and furcly for a
bad bcu/rw/Je it is no Icfs convenient; for lome ol
them, thaibe wandering women, it is half a wardrobe.
apenfer on Ireland.
Let us fet and mock the good boufcwife. Fortune, from her wheel, that her gifu may henceforth
be difpofed equally.
Sbak.
Farmers in degree,
He a good hulhand, a good hi^ufrwife (he. Dtyden.

H(nv mjny children's plaints and mother's cries
Wiif many woeful widows left to bow

To fad difgrace

Look'd pale, «hen they did hear of Clarence* death

'

•

themfelves good ftatelwomen as well as good boufcAddlfon.
"^V:"' ».,...
Ikilled in female bufinefs.
3.

One

He was bred up under the tuition of a tender
mother, till the made him as good an hm/rviij,:
as
hcrfeU he could preferve apiicocks, and make jellies.
:

It IS plealaot to fee

»»""?«•

adj.

[from iou/rwi/?.}

Skilled in the afts becoming a houJewife.

Ho'usEWIFELY. adv. [from houfe^uife.']
With the OEConomy of a careful woman.
Ho'osEWiPEHY. n.f. [from hcnfenxife.']

?

4.

6.

iti

•'"P-

,

more dangerous by iov/ much the Ipiiits
were
more adiivc and high.
the

W

lUyit.ard

By
much ihcy would diminifh the prefei.t
extent of the fea, fo much ihey
would impair the
lertilily, and fountains and rivers
of the earth.

'lemfll

Learn good works for necelTary ufes
;
for St,
Paul e»prclfe! the obligaiicn of ChrifJian
women to
good kou/e-wi/ery, and charitable provifions
for their
family and iieijlibourhood.
Tayl»

t

Bemley.

h.IS moch ufed in exelamation.
,.

,

.

W:w are the mighty fallen

1.

Ho't/siMC, a./ [from i5«^.]
-t

marking proportion

m

Chapman'! IlUd.

!

Sam
Lam
not eaiily ex

Hovj doth the city (it folitary as a
widow
In an affirmativo fcnfc,

plained; that fo it is ; that.
I

!

A meffagc
°

}

plain bufinefs. Or

In whatfoever

1.

degree.

manner; in whatfoever

This rirtg he holds
Jn nioft nch choice j yet in his idle fire.
To buy his will it would not
feem too dear,
tlmne'er repented of.
ku
r.
^bake/heart.

T1

1.

.

Jt""''

I

o trace the ways

Of highell agents, deem'd bo^^ruer
wife.
Milton
2. At all events; happen what
will; atleaft'
Our chief end IS to be freed from
all, if i, may be
however (torn the grea.ell evils;

may be, a

3.

good

&^

and

to eiij.y.^flr "

,,... ;h, chiefe.l.

Neverthelefs ; notwithdandingIn yourcxcufeyour love does

4illor/J,l

yet "

little faf;'

You might ic;«/,',r have took a fairer

way Drvden

Its view, are bounded on
all (ides by feveral
viJ»
of mountains, which are
bo-ujezrr\t

a

fo rreat

t1S"^:'a

'."''^

""' ' ^cndeiru, variety

H^^

^.tjijon on Italy,

I
J
-ij
,
I
do not. I.build
my reafoning
wholly on the cafe of
perfeeution, bo^-e^.n do not

Few turn

exclude it. AtteZ^y

the.r thoughts to

examine how thoie

'"1/ ?•"' "' ^"^' "'^' h'«cn
k"1"would,
which
however, be a very ufelul

end

its

*

enijuiry

4. To fome of thefe meanings this

w'olS

its

power

may be commonly reduced, but

fometimes almoft evanefcent
r« How,.. ^. „. ^huglen,
D.tch; uluk,'
liatin.J

To cry as a wolf or dog.

I.

Methought a legionof foul fiends
Environ'd me, and ho-wled in
S.uch hideous cries, that with

mine ears
the very noifc

trembling wak'd.
Sbakefpeare's Richard 11
f
If wolves h,id at Ihv gate
hlivl'd ih-,t a., .
Thou (hould'd have f/id^ Go,;':^'
I

tu^n"": key!^

A great divifion fell among the nobiliiv, fo much

fkill'd

ho^ 2Z"i

Dryd.

ioiv much
lefs
them th.it dwell in houfes of clay, whofe
foundation is in the duft ?
y^i. iv. to.

jr. A""'u Vr "??"'^ "^""^y ="' "'•«
f fcrediled by the hou/ev,l/.ry of th. lri(h in making
2. female ceconomy.

?

34.

Behold, he put no trull in his fervants,

'^f'l'feroH IreUnd.

b<iufruif,riet.

It is ufed in a fenfc

now write no letters but of

?

or correfpondcnce.

....
He ordain'd
a lady for his prife,

and young, and

xliv

Ho%v, and with what reproach (hall I return

in or to bufy hcrfcif about her baufnuiftry,

fair

I

xxvii.

they could tell bnv; or they will have
gay (kins
inftead of gay clothes.
Bacon's Natural Hijiory
In
what
ftate.
5.

You will think it unfit for a good houfewife to ftir

Ctnerally praifeful ;

?

By what means.
Men would have the colours of birds feathers, if

For bovi (hall I go up to my father ? Gen.

[Contraftetl from

is

Sbakefp.

?

Horuit itthouhad found it fo quickly > Gen.

Whence am I forc'd, and whither am I born

Domeflick or female bufinefs; m;magement becoming the miftrefs of a ftmily.

,,

For what reafon ; from what caufe.
Hi-w now my love
Why is your cheek fo pale

Hmu chance the rofes there do fade fo fait

Aidifon.

Ho'usEWiFERY.

Addijon on Italy.

,

3.

HooC

?etd°:^:l>''"'^°'=^-'-f-^.^o?:
'^''
Howe'ver. adty. {hoiu and e-vcr.]

L'Ejirange.

this little rcpublick arc cultivated to the
bell ad-

HooiT

not.

In what ftate is your health

.>

Aow the fmall territories of

in

01 civility.

much in our power bavj to live, but not at
all when or bov> to dij.
L'Ejlxange.

Dryden.
the daughters of Biiiam fliew

them

which God hath alw^v;
the works of natu e
this

•

Howd'ye.

Byranfom, orAoW'elfe.
Milton' t Agonijles.
We examine the why and the hvw of things.
,

grow Lme

thete

'till

contrary.

a knowledge

is

.

g^

there was no army tranfmitted
out of Kneland'
iowielt the Englilh colonies
in Irclund d d wi,:
ground upon the Irifh.
>,

SbaUJpearz.

Tis

a lewd lorrei,

bouieu this wifdom faveth them

Profecute the means of thy deliverance

,T,.

Never-'

Not now in ufe.

any longer than

evealed unto

lio-w that the guilty kindred of the queen

When living embers on the hearth are fpread.
<•

!

ConfiJtr into bo-w many dili'ering fubftances it
mjy be analyfcd by the Hre.
BojJe.
z. Jn what manner.
Mark'dyou not,

Early houfcixivex leave the bed.

•n
/I
The faireft among

Ihere

Daniel's Civil fVar.

I

however.

urgent caufe to ordain the

'

"f^

it.]

Hoiute I am but rude and
borrel.
Yet nearer ways I know.

^

To what degree.

I .

a new houfe.

continents.

thelefs; notwithftanding-

J

neceirarily

HOW. ad-v. [hu, Saxon; hoe, Dutch.]

A feaft of merrj'making upon going into

[ho^, he

Siker thou fpeak'ft like

entranre into a

Dryden.

A kind of fnail.

adn^.

1

Ut lieaven todeemonfo,

Six lions' hides wth thongs together fait,

H'ousEWARMlNG. »./. [houje and luarm.]

I.

yet;

His upper parts defended to his waift;
And where man ended, the continu'd veft,
Spread on his back, the bcufnai trappings of a beaft.

in a houfe.
Houprctm, that cofts him nothing, he bertows
Yet ftill we fcribblcon, though ilill we lofe. Dryiien.

2.

HowBE.

The bcujlhig fire did kindle and provide. Fairy
Houss. tt.J'. [from houjeaiix, or hctijes, Fr.]
Covering of cloth originally ufed to keep
off dirt, now added to fiiddles as ornamental iigns.
7 his word, though ufed
by Drjden, I do not remember in any
other place.

Sbukffpeare.

This hungry, bou/elefs, fuffering, dying jefus, fed
many thoufands with hve loaves and two hilies.

1.

Cloth originally ufed to keep off dirt,

His own two hands the holy knot did knit,
That none but death for ever can divide
;
His own two hands, for fuch a turn mull fit.

How (hall your bouftUft heads and unfed fides,

Ho'usESNAiL. n./.

Howbe'it.

houfe; houfewarming.

Poor naked wretches,

land, know-

South-fea was utterly

Craj/nt.

[From houfeaux,heiifes, oxhai/es, French.]

for enteriainment at

abode; wanting habitation.

that part of the

unknown, and might have illands
or

Hou'sLiNG. adj. [from hcuje.] Provided

t layer.

Ho'usELESs, adj. [from houfe.'\

ing boiu

its

now added to faddles as ornamental.

as juices ot apples, grapes, the forrels, and bouftieek.

Thick clouds put us in fome hope of

.

London is fupplied with people to increafe
inhabitants, according to the increafe oiborifing.

Both the

and lrek.'\

HOW

Quastity of inhabited buildiiTg.

'.

\

&W<//^ wildcrnefs.

Deuier

10

xxxii

As when a fort of wolves infell the
night,
With their wild hoivlings at fair

'

'

Cynthia's light.

Hard as his native rocks, cold as

his fword'T"'''"'

^''"^''^''V around his birth;

m"k",".V ,"'°'T
Hehates
he,yranf,_andthefuppIiantfcorns. Smth.
2. To Utter cries mdiftrefs.
Therefore I will hoiul, and cry

out for all Mo^ib.

The damned ufe that word in hell,

*'""'

Ho-wlingsMtr.i it.
Shake/p. R,„eo and Juliet.
Uach new morn
New widows /..W, new orphans cry,
new forrows.
Strike Heaven on the face.
Shakefpeare's Maeheib.
I

have words

That would be ba^l'd mt in the
defartair.
Where hcwuig (boHld not catch them. Sbak.

Mjch.
'J he'

HUE

HUC
The noife grows louder IWl
Raulingrf armour, trumpets, drums tnil aUbellesi

And rometimes puis of (bouts thai rend iheheav'ns,
then groans again, and hcrwiitir'
Like thofc of vanquith'd men. Dryd. Spamjb Fryar.

Like viOory

:

To fpeak with a belluinccry or tone.

Z.

Peace, monfter, peace 1 Go tell thy horiid tale
To favages, and bovil it out in dcfarti
_ Phillies.
!

A

Hubberd't Tile.

To Hu'cKSTER.

into filver, to

Murther,

And fills with horrid hmli the public place. Dryd.

2.

Now all in hafte they huddle on
Their hoods, their cloaks, and get them gone. Svii/i.
cover up in hafte.
3.
1 have given much application to this poem : this

Berofus, who, after Mofes, was one of the moft
ancient, hmujon'tr he hath been fince corrupted, doth
Re/rigb's Hiflory.
in the fubftance of all agree.

Diyden.
not B play huddled up in haile.
When continu'd rain
The l;(b'ring hutband in his houfe reftrain.
Let him forecaft his work with timely care,
Which elfe is huddled when the Ikies are fair.
is

Although.
The man doth fear God, hcvfoner it feems not
Shake/p.

in him.

Tv Hex. v. a. [from hog, Saxon.J
hough to ham-ftring.
;

Which boxet honefty behind, reftraining
Sbaktff. imnten Tale.
From courfe required.
i^dronius, perceiving the old foldier's meaning,
alighted, and with his fword boxed his horfe, faying aloud. This day, valiant foldiers, (hall you have
me both your general and fellow foldier, (ighting
Knolles.
on foot as one ofyourfelves.

\hou, old French.]

Dryden.

lo

Thou art a coward.

». /.

A large

boat fometimes with one deck.
He fent to Germany, flrange aid to rear
From whence eftfoons arrived here three hoyt
:

To throw together in confufion.

5.

adverfary huddling feveral fuppolitions toand that in doubtful and general terms,
Ijicke.
makes a medley and confufion.

Our

gether,

[I know not the

etymo-

Huddle. «./. [from the verb.]

a huddle of
words and terms infigniticant, has been the cenfure

That

People purfued the bufinefs with a contempt of
the government ; and in the hubbub of the firll day
there appeared nobody of name or reckoning, but the
A^ors were really of the dregs of the people.
Clarendon.

Should thy Jhoe wrench alide, down down you iall,
And overturn the fcolding buckler's ftall.

The fcolding huckjler (hall not o'er thee moan,
IBut fence ufcd for nuu and peanv'ccthrown. Cay.

So in fomc

provinces we ftill fay the bread huffs up,
when it begins to heate, or ferment : huff,
therefore, may be ferment.
To be in a
htff is then to be in ?. ferment, as wc now
fpeak.]
1. Swell or fudden anger or arrogance.
Quoth Ralpho, honour's but a word,

To fwear by, only in a lord i
In others i: is but a huff

To vapour with inftcad of proof.

Hudibras.

His frowns kept multiiudes in awe,
Before the blufter of w hofc huff
All hats, as in a (term, flew ott^
Hadibras.
have the apprchenfions of a change to keep a
check upon us in the very huff o{ our greatnefs.
L' Ejirange.
Spaniard was wonderfully upon the huff about
his ejttradion.
L'Effrangc.
No man goes about to enfnare or circumvent
another in apaifion, to lay trains, and give fecrct
blows in a prefent huff.
South.

We

A

A wretch fwelled with a falfe opinion of

2.

his own value.
for you,

colonel

hvffcap, we

(hall try before

a civil magillraie who's tisi: greater plotter.

Lewd (hallow-brained
contempt of religion the

huffs

fole badge

and charadicr of

Somb,

wit.

Huff. t;. a. [from the noun.]
1. To Avell; to puff.

7"o

In many wild birds the diaphragm may eafily
be buffed up with air, and blown in at the windpipe.
Grtiv.

2.

16 he^or; to treat with infolence anil
arrogance, or brutality.

The commifiioner at Magdalen college faid to Dr.
Hough, You muft not f r fume to f>i'ff us. Ecbard.
7e Huff. v.n. Tobiuller; to ftorm ; to
bounce,

to

fwell with

indignation or

A huffing, (hining, flatt'ring, cringing coward,
A cankerworm of peace, was rais'd above him.
Otviay,

A thief and judice fool and knave,
A

huffing officer and Have.

Hudibras,

Huffing to cowards, fawning to the brave.

To knaves a fool, to crcd'lous fools a knave.
Rofcontmon.

This fenfelefs arrogant conceit of theirs made
them huff it. the doi^rine of repentance, as a thing

Colour;

die.
For never in that land

1.

below them.

Face of fair lady Ihe before did view.

Or that dread lyoo's look her call in deadly hue.
Spenfer,

To add another hue unto the rainbow,
Is wafteful and ridiculous excefs. Shakefp. Kingjobn.

Flow'rsof alli6«^, and without tliorn the role.
Milton.
To whom the angel, with a fmlle thatglow'd
Celedial rofcy red, love's proper /</<•,
Milton's Paradife Lrjt.

Anfv%er'd.

Your's is much of the camelion hue.

Dryden.

To change the die with diftant view.
2.

\Hu>e French.]

A

clamour;

a

legal

purfuit ; an alarm given to the country.
It is commonly joined with cry.
Hue and cry, villain, go Alfift me, knight I
am undone : Ity, run, hue and cry ! villain, I am
Shakefp.
undone.
Immediately comes a hue and cry after a gang of
thieves, that had taken a purfe upon the road.
L'EJlrarge.
I

If you (hould hifs, he fwcars he'll hifs as high ;
Aidijon.
like a culf rit, join the in* «nd cry.

And

Dryd.

make Atheifm and

Hue. n.f. [hiepe, Saxon.]

One who feHs goods by retail, or in

the being buckjiers to fuch vile merchandife.
Cruernment of the Tongue.
Cod deliver the world from fuch guides, or rather
fuch buekjlers of fouls, the very (hame of religion.
South.

he is hitffcd up by dijiempen.

pride.

Hudibras.
L'EJirange.
diftinflly
nothing
in things
The underrtanding fees
Locke.
remote, and in a huddle.
Several merry anfwers were made lo my queftion,
which enteruined us 'till bed-time, and filled my
Addifon.
mind with a huddle of ideas.

lar.]

fmall quantities; a pedlar.
'I'here cannot be a more ignominious trade than

Glanv.

Nature doth nothing in a huddle.

Hu'cKLEBONE. »./. \{mmhuchn, Dutch,
The hipbone.
to fit down.]
) »./. [iiJf^, German, a pedHo'cKSTER.
Hu'cusTERER. ] lar; hociftir, a file pedI .

is

Your carrying bufinefs in a huddle.
Has forc'd our rulers to new model.

An univerfal*aW«i wild

(houlders.

the Ariftotelian philofophy

of the wifeft.

Of ftunning founds, and voices allconfus'd.

A kind of linen on
which the figures are raifed.
Hu^cKLEBACKED. at/j. [hock&r, German,
Crooked in the
a bunch, and hack.\

Crowd;

tumult; confufion; with obfcurity.

A

Hu'cKABACK. ». /.

Milan.

Their eyes are more imperfeft than others; for
they will run ajainft things, and huddling forwards,
Brovm'i Vulgar Errourt.
fall from high places.

logy, unlefsit be from */, ttj>, or hobnoL']
tumult ; a riot,

Borne through the hollow dark j alTaults his ear,
Millon'i Par. Lofi.
With loudelt vehemence.
Why wolves raife a hubbub at hec.
in
And dogs howl when (he (hines water. Hudibras.

HUFF. n.f. [from hove, or hovtn, fwelled

As

And fweeien'd every muikrofe of ilie dale.

Fairy Siueen.
Watts' s Logick.

They lie hovering upon the coaft, and are dire^el
by a balker or buer, who ftandelh on the cliff-fide,
and from thence dilcerncth the courfe o; the pilchard.
C.irtvj' s Survey

To come in a crowd or

Glance an eye of pity on his lolTes,
That have of late fo huddled an his back.
Shak.
Enough to prefs a royal merchant down.
Brown anfwered after his blunt and huddling
Bacon.
manner.
Thyrfis, whofe artful flrains have oft delay'd
his
madrigal.
to
hear
brook
i»i/i/;»g
The

One

n.f. [^wr, French, to cry.]

whofe bufinefs is to call out to others.

hurry.

To define a barge and buy, which are between
a boat and a (hip is hard.

Hue'r.

_

To Huddle. iJ. ».

Of Saxons, whom he for his fafely employs.

Hub'bub. w./

Pi tor.

Her cloths were huddled on by two.

To
See However. 4. To perform in a hurry.

Howsoe'ver. aii'v. [hoiu iaii Jiever.}

Hoy.

Stvift.

covered ; to mobble.
To put on carelefsly in a hurry.
At twelve (he rofe with much ado

Hhakefpeare' t Macbeth.

Thele and the like rumours are no more than the
Sivift.
laft *ow/r of a dog differed alive.
2, The cry of a human being in horrour.
She raves, (he luns with a diftrafled pace,

In what manner foever.

for changing their piece

Tlie btu and cry went after Jack, to afprehenl
him dead or alive, where hecould be found.
Arbuthnot's J'bn Bull.
_

fome buckjlering fellow who follows

To Huddle, 'v. a. [probably from hooti.]
1. To drefs up dole fo as not to be dif-

Alarmed by his fentinel the wolf,

Whofe hoval'% his watch.

[from the noun.]

that trade.

The cry of a wolf or dog.

2.

n,

They mud pay a (hilling,

and horrid.

Howl. k. /. [from the verb.]

1.

-v.

To deal in petty bargains.

4. It is ufed poetically of many noifes loud

J.

HUG

There (houM be a confederacy of all fervanh,
to drive thofe China butkften from the doors. Stvifi.
Thofe huckfiereri or money-jobbers will be {nund
necelTary, if this brafs money is made current. Svri/t.
trickifh mean fellow.
2.
Now the ape wanted his hucifier man.

South.

Now what's his end ? O charming glory fay
What, a fifth afl to crown his huffing play ?

What a fmall

I

Dryd,

of realon and truth is
mixed with thofe huffing opinions they arc fwelled
wiih.
Lccke.
When Peg received John's melTage, (he buffed
and ftormed like the devil. Arbutb. Hiji. ofJ. bull,
pittance

Hu'ffer. n.f, [from^jj^.]

A blultererj

a bully.

Nor have I have hazarded my art
To be expos 'd i' th' end tofuffer.

By fuch a braggadocio buffer.

Huffish,

adj.

[from

Hudibras.
hiiff,'\

Arrogant;

infolent; heftoring.

Hu'FFi.'iHLY. adnj. [from hi/ffif.\'\
With
arrogant petulance; with bullying blufter.
Hu'ffishness. »./. Petulance; arrogance;

1

noifey blufter.
Tff

Hi;c. w.a, [he3ian, Saxon,

to hedge,

to indofe.]
I.

Toj

HUG
1.

HUM

H UTVI

To prefs clofe in an embrace.

tion. /^atfifislikewife in Gercoin a eornei;

He bewept my fortune,
Sbaktfp.
And bugg'J me in his arms.
What would not he do now to bug the creature

and moky is in Englifti dari.

But if night-robbers lift the well-flor'd hive,
An bumming through their waxen city grows.
Dryden.
z. To make an inarticulate and buzzing

how to determine.]

Now hold in buggermugger in their hand,

that had given him fo admirable a ferenade
L'F.Jirange.

But if I can but find them out.

Dry den.
King Xenes was enamoured upon an oak, which
Harvey on Ctn/umptions
he would bug and icift.
2. To fondle ; to treat with tendemefs.
I, Under tair pretence of friendly ends.
And well-pUc'd wordsof glozing courtely.

A\A bug him into fnarcs.

Miitor.
We hug deformities, if they bear our names.
GUnville.

Admire yourfelf,

Hudiiras.
There's a diflin£tion betwixt what's done openly
and bare-faced, and a thing that's ioat'm hugger"'"SS"'' "nJ" the (eal of fecrecy and concealment.
UEJlratige.
Hu'cY. adj. [See
Vaft; great;

HUGE.]

Not in ufe.

This bugy rock one finger's force apparently will
Citre%u'i Sut^ey ofCarntuall
HuKE. »./ \huque, Fr]
cloak.
As we were thus in conference, there came one
that feemcdto be a melfcnger, in a rich huke.

Though they know that the flatterer knows (h<
falfehood of his own flatteries, yet they love the im-

There's a whole merchant's venture of Bourdeaux
ftufl^ in him : you have not feen a bulk better ftuffed
in the hold.
Shakefp.
The cuftom of giving the colour of the fea to the
W>j, fails, and mariners of their fly-boats lo keep
them from being difcoveicd, came from the Veneti.
Arbuthnot.
They Ai^o's bulk will tax.
And fcrape her piichy fides for wax.
Swift.
The footy bulk
Steer'd fiuggilh on.
Tbomp/an.

Toholdfaft.

Age makes us moft fondly hug and retain the
good things of life, when we have Uk lealt profpedt
Attethury.
enjoying
of
them.

To gripe in wreftling.

iiuc. n.J. [from the noun.J
Clofe embrace.

Why thefe e.\ehbugs ? I owe my (hame to him.

Any thing bulky and unwieldy.
1 his
(tak is ftill retained in .Scotland ; as, a

2.

Guy,

A particular gripe in wreftling, called a

hulk is a fellow.
And Harry Monmouth'sbrawn, theia/> Sir John,

Cornijh hug.

HUGE. adj. {hoogh, high, Dutch.]

Is prifoncr to your fon.

3. Great even to deformity or terriblenefs.
The patch is kind enough, but ihuge feeder.
Shakeffeare.

Through forefts buge, and long untravell'd heaths,
Withdefolation brown he wanders walie. Tbomfon.

Hu'gely. adv. \(vom huge.\
0'.it

on pride.

That can therein lax any private party }
\X>i\i it not flow as hugely as the fea.

Jiare.

I Hill

Nor fnufllcd treafon.
HuJibrat.
The man lay humming and hawing a good while
;

Shakefp.

1 he hulk or integument of any thing ;
the outer covering; as the hull of a nut

The mufical accents of the Indians to us, are but
inarticulate

Still

Deep in iheir bulli our deadly bullets light.

And through the yielding planks a palTage find,
Dryden.
So many arti hath tke Divine Wifdom put together, only for the hull and tackle of a thinking
creature.

To

To fmg low.

6.

To applaud.

//«•/ half a tune.

without fails or rudder.
They faw a fight full of piteous ftrangenefsj a (hip,
burned, and part drowned.
Sidney.
Will you boift fail, fir ? here lies your way.
No, good fwabbcr, I am to i*// here a little longer.

—

He look'd,. and faw the ark hullaa the flood.
Milton.
People walking down upon the fliorc, faw fomething come bulling towards them.
L'EJIrange.

Hath rung night's yawning peal. Shakefp. Macbeth.
Nor undehghtful is the ceafelefs hum,
1 o him who mules through th: woods at noon.
TbomfoK'*

crowds at a diftance.
From camp to camp, thro' the foul wombof night,,
1 he bum of either army rtill relbunds.
Shakefp.
Tower'd ciiies pleal'c us then,,

youi unworthy thinking.

,

But cow the great exchange of news 'tis hight.
And full of bum. and buz from noon till night. Dryd'.
3. Any low dull noife.
Who fat the neareft, by the words o'ercome.
Slept fall
the diftant nodded to the bum.
Poft,.
:

4.

Shakr/p

whence our OTKriy.
It is written by bir
Thomai Moore, hoker maker^
Hiker, in
Chaucer, is feevijh, crojsgrmned, of which

muktr may only be a ludicrooj leduplica-

Save bullver and thorn, thereof flail for to make.
Tujfer.

To Hum. -v. a, [hcmelan, Dutch.]
I .
To make the noife of bees..
The bumming ot bees is an unecjual buzzing.

Thefe Ihrugs, thel'e btimstni. haws.
Ere you can fay (he's honclt.

An airy nation flew.
So weary bees \a little cclll ttpofe

Sbak. IVinier's Tale,^

Your excufes want fomc grains to make 'cm current bum and ha will not do the bulinefs. Dryden^
5. In Hudibras it feems ufed for i6azo.
:

And though his countrymen the Huns,
Did llew their meat between their hums.
And the horfcs backs, on which theyftraddle.
And e'A'iy man cat up hisfaddle.
Hudiiras,
An exprelfion of applaufe.
You hear a hum in (he right place.
SpeHalor,
HvM. iiiterjetS. A found implying doubt
and deliberation.

6.

Let not your eyes defpife the heavie(t found

That ever yet they heard.
Hum'.

guefs at it.

Shakefp. Macie'i,
See fir Robert hum!
And never laugh for all my life to come.
Pope.
I

HU'MAN. adj. [humanus, Latin; humain,
French.]
1.

Having the qualities of a man.
It will never be atkcd whether he be a gentleihail'
born, but whether he be a human creature i
Swift,

Bacon.

Thick as the bumming beej that hunt the golden dew
Id Summer's heat.
Vfidtn.

A paufe with an inarticulate found.

When you havefaid (he's goodly, come between,.

Ainjixjorth.

[corrupted p.r
haps from hiiger mocker or hug in the
dark.
Morcker in Oanifli is darknefs,

,
'

And the buly /6am of men.
Milton^
One theatre there is of vaftrefort.
Which whilom ot lequelts was call'd the court ;

My miftrefs exceeds in goodneli the iugene/i of ilu'LLVER.w./ Holly.

Hu'ggermucger. n. f.

A low confufed noife, as of buftling

z.

Hu'lly. fli^'. [from hull \ Siliqucfe; hu(ky.

Enormous bulk ; greatncfs.
2. Utmoft extent.
Not in ufe.
1.

Pope,

Approbation was commonly exprelTed in public aflTemblies by »
hum, about a century ago.
HuM.».y. [from the verb.]
I. Ihenoife ofbees orinfefts.
To black Hecate's fumman
The (hard-born beeilc, with his drowfy hums.

Hull.
float ;

other-

Glanville,

And lalh'd fo long, like topsj.arelalh'dafloep. Pope.

•

Grew.
t. n. [from the ooun.]
To
to drive to and fro upon the water

as arc ours to their

humming on, their diowfy courfe they keop^

5.

;

feems originally to have meant not merely
the body or hull, but a whole (hip of
burden, heavy and bulky.

hummings j

wife tuned organs.

The body of a Ihip; the hulk. Hull
and hu:k are now confounded but hulk

2.

Sbakejpeare.

Hu'cENjss.w./ [from bugf.]

L'EJirange,

To make a dull heavy noife.

4.

covers the (hell. [Hule, Scottilh.]

2. Greatly; very much.
1 am bugeiy bent to beluive, that whenever you
concern yourfelves in our aftairs, it is for our good.

but in the end, he gave up himfelf to the phyficians..

Hull. »./ [A*^«a, Gothick, to cover.]
1

Hudiiras,

acquieft,

And never bumm'd and haw'd fedition,

Ainjijuarth.

or rather the carcafe of a (hip, or ratherfome few
bones of the carcafe, bulling there, part broken, part

Immenfely; enormoufly.

Who cries

Sbakejpeare.

To H u LK. a/, «. To exentrate; as, to hulk a

Vaft; iramenfe.

Let the eliate of the people of God, when they
were in the houfe of bondage, and their manner ut
ferving God in a ftrange land, be compared with that
which Canaan and Jerufalem did atibrJ ; and who
feeih not what huge dilierence there was between
them ?
Htoker.
'Ibis fpace of earth is fo hugt, as that it equalleth
in grealn)if< not only Afu, Euiojx, and Africa, but
Americi.
Abhtl.
a. Very great.
The mountain buge,
Milton.
Part, buge of bulk !
Wallowing unwieldy, enormous in their gait,
Tempeft the ocean ; there leviathan
Hugtjl of living creatures, in the deep
Strctch'd like a promontory, flceps or fwims,
And feems a moving land.
Mihon.

1.

Having pump'd up all his wit.

And bumm'd upon it, thus he writ.

Hui.K. n.f. [i^W*-, Dutch ; hulc, Saxon.]
1. The body of a (hip.

!

1.

Sbakejpeare,

The cloudy melTenger turns me his back.
And bums; as who Ihould fay. You'll rue. Shakefp.
3. Topaufein fpeaking, and fupply the interval with an audible emilTion of breath.

A

South,
podor, and with both aims bug the abute.
Mark with what joy he iugt the dear difcover)
Ro^ve,

2.

Sbakejpeare..

Upon my honour, Sir, 1 heard a humming.

Bacon's New Aialanth.

R'ifcommon,

think he'll hear me: yet to bite his lip.

And tliat a lirange one too, which did awake me.

""ove.

Aiid, without rival, hug your darling book.

1.

I

And bum at good Cominius, much unhearts me.

Where e'er th' in b.vggermuggcr lurk,
I'll make them rue their handy woik.

huge.

Baited with reafons not unplauftble.
Win me into the eafy hearted man,

4.

found.

And all the reft do robot floods and land. Huii. Tale.

Ev'n in that urn their bminer they confels,
And bug it in their arms, and lo their bofom prefs

3.

I know not
Secrecy; bye-place.

2.

Belonging to a man.
The king is but a man as I am ; the violet fmells
to him as it doth to me; all his fcofes have but
human coadilicns,

Shakefp.

,

H U M

HUM

Huuble.a//. \ittmble. Ft. humili'j. "Lit.]
1
Not proud modeft not arrogant.

Hu'MBLEBEB.w.y; An herb.
AmJ'-wtrtkf
Hxj'mblebhe Eater, n. J. A fly that eat*

HUM
Tot nun to tell how human life begin
It hard; for who himfell beginning knew? Mi'lttH.
Thee, ferpent, fubtil'ft bcaft of all the field,
I knew, but not with bumait voice indu'd. Milton.
Intuitive knowledge needs no probation, nor can
have any, this being the highcft pf all human cerLech.
tainty.

HUMA'NE. adj. [hamaine, Fr.l

Kind;

civil; benevolent; good-natured.
Love of othen, if it be not fpent upon a few, doth
naturally fpread itfetf towards many, and maketh
Bacon.
men become humant and charitable.
Envy, malice, covetoufnefj and revenge are abelifhed i a new race of virtues ai>d graces, more divine,
more moral, more humane, are planted in their ttead.
Strait.

Hu ma'n ELY.

flifo.

[from humane.'] Kind-

ly ; with good-nature.
If they would yield us the fuperfluity, while it
were wholclomc, we might guefs they relieved us
Sbakfffejrr.

humunrly.

A

'Hv'MMiisr. rt. /.{humani/Ie, French.]

philologer a grammarian : a term ufed
in the fchools of Scotland.
Humanity. »./. [humamie,Ft, humaniias,
;

Latin.
a. The nature of man.
Look to thyfelf J reach not beyond humanity.

A

Shakeff.
the eittemity of both ends.
To preferve the Hebrew intire and uncorrupt,
humanity
there hath been tifed the higheft caution
could invent.

Human kind;

Brown.
the colle<aive body of

Spenfer.

Now we hive (hewn our power,

If he can untie thofe knots, he is able to teach all
humanity, and will do well to oblige mankind by his
GlanvilU.
information.

3. Benevolence; tenderncfs.

All men ought to maintain peace and the common
offices oi humanity and friendlhip in diverfity of opi-

Lxkc.

nions.

How few, like thee, enquire the wretched out,

Thy humble fervant vows obedience,
And faithful fervice 'till the point of death. Sbakefp.

We (hould be as humble in our imperfeftions and
fins, as Chrift was in

Ten thoufand trifles light at thefci
Nor can my rage nor anger move :
She fhould be humble who would pleafe;
And (he muft fufler, who can love.
2. Low ; not high ; not great.
Th' example of the hcav'niy lark.

Thy Icllow-poct, Cowley, mark

j

to

!

Kindly ;

with good-nature.

Shukifp. As you like it.
Humble yourfelves under the mighty hand of God,

that he may exalt you.

is

now written humanely.
Though learn'd, well bred ; and though well bred,
fnicert

Modeftly bold, and humanly fevere.

Pofe.

Hti'MBiRD.w J. [from ;&«OT and ^/r</. ] The

humming bird.
«ge5 have conceived

the wiVn the Icaft of

birds, yet our own plantations have rticwed
lefs; tlijt is,

beetle.

the

Pet. v. 6.

i

Hezekiah humbled himfelf for the pride of his
2 Chron.

heart.

Why do I humble thus myfelf, and fuing
For peace, reap nothing but rcpulfeand hate? Milton,
Let the (inner putaw.iy the evil of his doings, and
humble himfelf by a fpccdy and (incere repentance
Let him return to Cod, and then let him be alTijred

To crulh

;

Rogers,

to break; to fubdue ; to mor-

Yearly injoin'd, fome fay to undergo
This annual humbling certain number'd days.

To dalh their pride and joy, for man feducM. Milton.

We are pleafed, by fome implicit kind of revenge,
to fee him taken down and humbled in his reputation,

who had fo far raifed himfelf above us.
Addifon.
The miftrefs of the world, the feat of empire,
the
delight
nurfe
of
heroes,
of
gods,
The

Men thai make a kind of infult upon fociety,
ought 10 be bumbled as difturbcrs of live public tran-

one

fai

bumbkd, rot much exceeding a
difovn.

Freeholder.

quillity.

Fortune not much of humbling me can boall
Though double tax'd how little have I loft !
Pope.
3.

To make to condefccnd.
I'his

would not be to condcfcend to their capacihe humblei himfelf to fpeak to them, but

ties, when

to lofe his defign in fpeaking.

4.

This

A

Obfolete.

Hu'mbly. adv. [iromhumble,]

The executioner
Falls not the axe upon the bumbled neck.

Pope.

jliitibur^.

:

.And with meek bumhlefs, and affliiited mood.
Pardon for thee, and grace for rae intreat. Spinjer.

niell with a lalle eiail, yet unconfin'd ;

man/y fpeakin^, m-ay fccro to promifc.

and

blenefs ; humility.

;

the power of men.
Thus the prefent happy ptofpciS of our afl^airs, hii-

[humble

adj.

mouthed,] Mild ; meek.
You are meek ^x\i humblemat/tied butyourheart
Is cramm'd with arrogancy,fpleen and fxiic. Sbakt/p.
Ho'mbleplant. «. /.
fpecies of fcnfitive plant.

Take this purfe, thou whom the heav'ns plagues
Have humbled to all ftrokes.
Shakeff. King Lear.

Addijtn.

After the notions of men ; according to

Hu'mbler. n.f, [hom humb/e.] One that

to make to bow down with humility.

natures with compalTion, for^ivenefs, and all the in-

Hu'manly. fli/i'. [from ^awaw.]

Sidney,
anfwered by us all, in all pofTible humble,
nefi i but yet with a countenance, that we knew he
fpoke it but merrily.
Bacon.
A grain of glory, mixed with bumblenefs.
Cures both a fever and Icthargicknefs,
Herbert.
It was

Hu'mbles. n,/. Entrails of a deer.
Hu'mbi ESS. n, /, [ftom humble,] Hura-

Was it the bufmefs of magick to humanize tur

A knowledge both of books and humankind.

rather heart to five myfelf, than to receive thanks.

R'j-uie.

;

IVoiton.

Hu'mankind. n. J. {human and kind.']
The race of man mankind.

1

To Hu'mble. 'V. a. [from the adjeftive.]
to make fubmiflive;
1. To mak"; humble

And here my faithful tears in Ihow'rs (hall flow,

ftanccsof the moll extcnfi-e charity ?

Sidney,
1 am rather with all fubjefled humllencfs, to thank
her excellencies, fince the duty thereunto gave me

Far humbler titles fuit my loft conditions. Smith.

That bumbled the pit>ud tyrants of the earth. Addif.

to humanize the flints whereon I tiead.

With how true humlltnffi
They looked down to triumph over pride

The bumbleplant it fo called, becaufe, as foon as
you touch it, it proftrates itfelf on the ground, and
in a Ihorc time elevates itfell again: it is railed in
hotbeds.
Mortimer,

dcrnefs or benevolence.

All

Cauley,

Denies what evVy wretch obtains of fate,
YalJen.
An humble roof and an obfcure retreat.
Ah prince, had'ftthou but known the joys which
dwell
With humbler fortunes, thou wouljft curfe thy

make fufceptible of ten-

Here will I paint the charaftersofwoe,

Hu-

mility ; abfence of pride.

humbles or fubdues himfelf or others.

tify.

In
grammatical ftudies.
4. Philology ;
Scotland, humartiores litene.
9i Hu'm ANIZE.1'. (7. [A//»i«/ff//rr, French.]

Ain/nxiorth.

Hu'mblemoutheD.

Above the Ikies let thy proud mufick found,

that God will return to him.

Rovis.

2.

Frier,

!

Thy bumble ncft build on the ground.

2.

Reach out their bread to feed the crying orphan.
Or mix their pitying tears witli thofe that weepi

•J.

the fulnefs of the fp rit, great

wifdom,and perfeil Wk.Taylor's Rule oflivinghcly.
You, if an bumble hufband, may tequefl,
Dryden.
Provide and order all things for the beft^

And court the offices of foft bwnjttiiy ?
tike thee referve their raiment for the naked.

the bumblebee.

Hu'mbleness. n.f. \Jxomhumhle.]

Let us feem humbler after it is done,
Than when it wasa-doing.
Sbakeff. Cirhlanus.

But lirl^ begs pardon.

mankind.

To foften

;

;

And mighty proud to bumble weak does yield.

royalty

SiJney.
Sbakt/p.
rarer fpirit never did fleer humanity.
The middle of bumaniiy thou never kneweft, but

a.

.

Locke.

I.

Without pride; with humility; modeftly j
with timorous modefty.
They were us'd to bend.
To fend their fmiles before them to Achilles,
To come humbly as they ufed to creep to holy altar?.
Sbak.Jp.

Here the tim'd Euphrates humhly^Mti
And there the Rhine fubmits her fwelling tides.
Dryden,
Write him down a (lave, who, humbly proud.
With prefents begs preferments from the crowd.
Dryden,
In midft of dangers, fears, and death,
Thygoodnefs I'll adore.

And praife thee f',r tliy mercies pift.
And humbly hope for more.
Addifon^
z. Without height ; without elevation.
Hu'mdrum. adj. [from httm drone, or

humming drone,]

JJull; dronifh ; ftupiii.
Shall we, quoth (he, ftand (Jill, humdrum.

And lee ftout Bruin all alone,
By numbers bafely overthrown ?
HudlSras.
1 was talking with an old humdrum fellow, and,
1

had heard his ftory out, was called away by

bufinefs.

Addifon,

before

To HUMECT.
\ 1', a, {himeao, Lat.
To HU.MECTATE. J humeaer,Yttv.<:h.]
To wet ; to moiften.

The Nile and Niger do not only moiften and con.
temperate the air by their exhalations, but refrcOi and
bumtciaie the earth by their annual inuiijaiions.

To bring down from an height.
In procefs of time the highcft mountain! may be
j&»m3/<-^ into valleys ; and again, the lowcft vallies
exalted into mountains.
llaknvill on Pro'vidcnce,

Brtvn.

Her rivers are divided into (luices, 1.1 bumcHale
the bordering foil.

Htnvel's Focal Foreft.
The medicaments are nf acool A««t<5//;^ quality,
and not too much aftringcnt.
Wifeman's Surgery,

Hu'mblebee. n.f. [A///«A/cand bte. What
may be the true etymology of this word Humecta'tion. n.f, [humedation, t'l.
from hiimedate.] The acl of wetting;
The bumblebee is known
1 am in doubt.
moiftening.
The Scotch call a cow
to have no fting.
without horns an humble com ; fo that the
word feems to fignilies iuermii, wanting
Dr. Beattie,]
the natural weapons.
A
buzzing wild bee.
The honcyb-igs fteal from the humblebets.
And for night tapers crop their waxen thighs. Sh.ik,
This puts us in mind once again, of the bumblebeet
and the tinder-boxes.
Antrtury,

Plates ol

brafs, applied to a

down from fwelling

:

blow, will keep

it

the caufe is reperculTion, with-

out bumeHiitioK, or entrance of any body.

Bacon j Natural Hijlcry,
*

That which

concreted by exficcaiions or exprdfion of humidity, will be refolvcd by bumeliaiion,
as earth and clay.
Brovn.
is

Hu'MBRAf,.

adj. [humeral, French, from
humerus, Lat.J Belonging to the Ihoulder.

The

HUM

my God for my humility. Shak. Rich. III.
What the height of a king tempteth to revenge,

BrambaiU

Wet} moid; watery.

them in agiution, the bodyisSuid; and

At their wilh 'd journey 'send.

As high turrets, for their airy fteep
Require foundations in proportion deep ;
And lofty cedars as far upwards fhoot.
As to the nether heavens they drive the root;
So low did her fecure foundation lye,

if it

jiinjhuirih.

Hu'moral.

adj.
[from humour.^
ceeding from the humours.

This lort of

fever

is

Odd

pleafed, or greatly difpleafed, with little things;

querades, where the wit of both fcxes is allogether
taken up in continuing fingular and humorfomf difguifes.

H i;'moursom ELY.

things,

The aqueous humour of the eye will not freeie,
which

Addijon.

The wit finks imperceptibly into an humoriji.
Spectator.

3. One who has violent and peculiar paffions.

By a wile and timeous inquifuion the peccant
humours and humorijis muft be difcovered and pucged,
mercy, in fuch a cafe, in a king,

is

true

Baeon to f^illiers.

Hu'M0R0t;s. adj. [from humour.]
1. Full of grotefque or odd images.

Defcent from greatnefs ; aft of humility.
The former was an humiliation oi Deity, the latter

Some of the commentators tell us, that Marfya
was a lawyer who had loft his caufe j others that

humiliation al manhood; for which caufe there
followed upon the latter an eialtation of that which

this palTage alludes to the ftory of the fatirc

iti

Marfyas,

who contended with Apollo, which I think is more
humorous.

was humbled j for with power be c«»ted the world,
¥ut rellorcd it by obedience.
llo(Jttr.

2.

Thy humiliation (hall exalt
With thee thy manhood alfo to this throne. Millon.

Addi/on on Italy.

Capricious; irregular; without any rule
but the preft;nt whim,
1 am known to be a humorous patrician
faid
;

2. Mortification; external expreffion of fin
and unworthinefs.

to be fomething

imperfeft,

in

favouring the hrlt

complaint; halty and tinder-like, u|H)n too tiivijl
motion.
Shakefpeare't C^riolanu:.
Thou fortune's champion, that do'lt never tight
But when her humorous ladylhip is by.

John fared poorly, according unto the apparel he
wore, that is, of camel's hair; and the dottrine he
preached was humiliaiicn and repentance,
Brotvn

To teach thee fafeiy,

With tears
Wat'ring the ground, and with our fighs the air
Trccjueniing, fent from hearts contrite, in fign
Of lorrow unfeign'd, 3Tii humiliation meek. Milton.
•g. Abatement of pride.
of humiliation

mankind, to behold the habits and paflions ol

men trampling over iniereft, fiiendfhip, honour, and
their own perianal falety, as well as that of th«ir
Swi/t.

i'l TV. n. _/l [hamiliti, French.]
Freedom from pride ; modefty ; not
I

arrogance.
When wc make profclfion of our faith, we (land
when we acknowledge our fins, or feek unto Cod
iet favour, we fail {towoj bccavfe the g«&ure of
;

Siiair/fi. King Jjhn.

He's humorous as Winter, and as fudden

As flaws congeal'd in the fpring of day.
Shaie/f. Henry IV.

O, you awake then come away.
Times be (hort, arc made tor play
The humortfus moon too will not Hay
What doih make you thus delay ?

Ray on lie Creatiom,

body, reckoned by the old phyficians to
be phlegm, blood, choler, and melancholy,
which, as they predominated, were fuppofed to determine the temper of mind.
Believe not thefe fuggeftions, which proceed
From anguifli of the inind and humours black.

That mingle with thy fancy.
Milloitt
General turn or temper of mind.
As there is no humour to which i-npudent poverty

3.

cannot make itfelf fcrviccablc; io were there enoiv
of thofc of defperate ambition, who would build their
houfes upon others ruin.
Sidney.
There came a young lord, led with the humour
youth,
whichever
of
thinks thatgood whofe goodncfa
he fres not.
Sidmy.
King James, as he was a prince of greatjudgment,
fo he was a prince of a marvellous pleafant humour 2
as he was going through Lufen by Greenwich, he
alked what town it was? they faid Lufen. He alked,
a good while after, what town is this we are now in f
They laid IWI it was Lufen : then, faid the king. I
will be king of Lufen.
Bacon's Apofthegmi.
Lxamine how your humour is inclined,

And which the ruling paffion of your mind.
R'.fcommoit

They, who were acquainted with him, know his
humour to be fuch, that he would never conllrain
himlelf.
In c.ifcs where it

DryJtn.

is necclTary to make examples,
ihc iu»TO»rol the multiiude to forget the crime,

it is

and to remember the punilhment.
Addi/on.
Grxwl fjumour only teaches charms to laiV,
Still makes new canquells, and maintains the paft
fcft.

4. Prefent difpofition.
It is the cflrfe of kings to be attended

:

By flavcs, that take their humours tor a warrant

;

To break into ihc blood-houfe of life.
Ben yonfort.

Vail is his courage, boundlcfs in his mind.

Rough asalloim,and humotous sli thewind. Dryden,

He that would learn to pais a juft feutcnte on
perfons and things, mull take heed ot a lanciful
temper ol mind, and an humQUious coiidudl in his
affaiis.

very admirable, feeing it hath the pcrfluidity of common water.

and

The different kind of moifture in man's

2.

his

One who has odd conceits.

is

fpicuity

IVatts.

cruelty.

[from/j«CT»ar/a»K.]

Moifture.

1.

This humoriji keeps to himfelf much more than
he wants, and gives his fupcrfiuitles to purchalc

orcutolf:

S-u'ift.
<z</t^,

Peevilhly ; petulantly.

anions feldom directed by the reafon and nature of

I

'

humourous. In this fenfe it is lefs

;

ufed.
Our fcience cannot be much improved by maf-

Harvey on Conjumftions.

French.]
1. One who condufts himfelf by his own
fancy; one who gratifies his own humour.
The notion of a humoriji is one that is greatly

O

Vat. 1.

Peevifh ; petulant.

ntorijle,

We'll ufe this unwholeforae i»«/V/^', thisgrofs
watry pumpion.
Shmkrjfiare,
biefling-breeding fun ward from the earth.
Rotten humidity t below thy fitter's orb
Infed the air
Shaifftare'i Timen ofAihtni.
Young animals have more tender fibres, and more
humidity, than old animals, which have their juices
more eialted and rclifhing.
Arbuihnoi.
Humilia'tion. a. yJ [French.]

country.

1.

HU'MOUR. n,;. [humour. Fr, humor, Lat.J

may be called fo in reference to Ht;'MORisT. »./. \humorifio, Italian; hu.

2.

capricious levity.

2.

Pro-

comprehended under con-

heaven.

;

Hu'mouRsome. a<^'. [horn humour.l

Hu'mmer.w. /. [from A«/».] That which

tinual humoral fevers.

Calamj.

Ficklenefs

1.

king, and by their bowing and bending avoided the
prefent ftorm,
Davles.

hums ; an applauder.

will hold.

2. jocularity; oddnefs of conceit.

Sh« was not humble, but humility,
Dryden.
2. Aft of fubmiffion.
With thefe humilities they fatisAed the young

gold, tin, or lead, to whofe furfaces it
will prefently adhere.
And even water
itfelt that wets almoft every thing, and
is the great ftandard of humidity, is not
capable of wetting every thing, for it
fiands and runs eafily off in globular
drops on the leaves of cabbages and many
other plants; and it will not wet the
feathers of ducks, fwans, and other waterfowl.
^in<y.

J.

Ho'morousness. n. f. [from humorous.]'

of honour, or to begin a fall after dinner.

moifture, or the power of wetting other
bodies. ItdiSers very much from fluidity,
depending altogether on the congruity
of the component particles of any liquor
to the pores or funaces of fuch particular
bodies as it is capable of adhering to.
Thus quickfilver is not a moift liquor,
in refpeft to our hands or clothes, and
many other things it will not ftick to ;

HuM

midft
South.

It is an eafy matter to extol humility in the

HuMi'oiTY. »./. [kumiditt, French; from
humid.'\
That quality which we call

to

Denham*s Sophy.

Swi/t^
2. Capricioufly; whirafically.
We refolve by halves, and unadvifedly ; wc refolve
ralhly, fiUily, or kumoroujly, upon no reafons that

Humility to ferve their pride, and feem
Humble upon their way, to be the prouder

be
apt to ftick to things, it is humid. Nrwroit's Of rich.

lelToti

Addifon*
It has been humorcuJlyhM, that fome have filhed
the very jakes for papers left there by men of wit.

clarendon.

There are fome that ufe

with ^^mi;/ bow.
Waters the odorous banks that blow
Flowers of more mingl'd hue
Than her purpled fcarf can (henr,
M'lUtn.
The queen, lecever'd, rears her i»«M'</ eyes,
And firft her hulband on the poop cfpics. Dryden.
It they nip eaftly, and are of a fit fize to be agitated by heat, and the heat is big enough to keep

may fer\e for a great

A

cabinet of medals Juvenal calls very iwoofix^,.
concifum argentum in titulos fjcie/jue minutas,

The A«»t//;{y of the ftyle gained them many friends.

Iris there)

It

Merrily; jocofely.

1.

the humility of a Chriftian teachetn to forgive.
King Charles.

HU'MID. adj. [humiJt, French; humidus,

1,

Hu'MORoustY, adj, [from Ar/Boroax.]

I thank

Fafting and fackclothi jnd alhes and tears, and
humicuiatiem, ufed to be companions of repentance.

it

Prior,.

With whom my foul is any jot at odds,
More than the infant that is born to-night)

Hwmicuba'tion. «. /. [humi and cuSoA
Latin.] The aft of lying on the ground.

Latin.]

Hooker,

the behaviour of iK»r(7/p<.
I do not know that miglifhman alive.

Siarf.

putation.

And penfive, tvav'ring, melancholyt
Thou dread'ft and hop'ft thou know'ft not what.

cennancy becometh us beft in the one, in the other

« ligature, in taking up the iymera/ ittuKs in am-

but

HUM

HUM

Tke tijgeft crooked needle ftiould tie ufed, with]

Watis's Logick,

3. Pleafant ; jocular.
Thy humoivui vein, thy pleafing folly.
Lies aU ucglcCtcd, all forgot j

Shalejfcaye.

Another thought her nobler humour \ei, tairfax,
'1 heir humours arc
not to be won.
But when they arc impos'd uprn.
Hudibras,
Tempt nut his heavy hand;
But one fubmifflve word which you let fall.
Will make him in good humour with us all. Dr\dcn,
5. Grotefijue
lueut.

imagery; jocularity; merri-

convcrfat'on

1

mor

/« »m»i it more than wit, ejfinefs

than knowlcige.

6 G

,

'Temple.

5, Tendency

6. Tendency to difeafe ;

^.,
The child had a hmsur which wai

the waters of Glaftonbury.

Many thoufands had feen the tranfaaions of our
received an
Saviour, and tmay bundled thoufands
w*"^
occount of them from the moulhi of thofe w^o

aired by

FuUmg.

Hu'ndrhd. n. /.

difcrefriend all perfeaion, all virtue and
as
Has he not iumouri to be enduied, as well

my

kindnelfet to be

A trick

8.

I

me

*"""*•

enjoyed >

a praftice.

;

\Tronged

like not ihe buaiotir of lying : he hath
the huin fome i«mi,«ri; 1 (houtJ have borne
!>bak/f.
to her.

mourM letter

fifting of an hundred.
Very 'few will take this propofition, that Cod
himfelf comis pleafeJ with the doing of what he
whofoever
mands, for an innate moral principle
of prohundreds
does fo, will have reafon to think
Locke.
pofiiions innate.
:

taken from the enemy, were divided
amongft
into centuries or hundreds, and dirtributed
Arbulhnot.
the foldiers.

To Hu'movjr.

To gratify

1.

;

haps once containing an hundred manors.
[Hundredum, low Latin; hurtdrede, old

to footh by comphance.

French.]
fcldom good to the
1 mpofts upon merchants do
king's revenue ; for that that he wins in the hundred,
Bacon.
he lofeth in the Ihire.
For juftice they had a bench under a tree, where
whence
Aiwfi^'-fi
Kct fat, and with him two of every
their companies had been raifed : here complaints

wnuM humour

If 1 had a fuit to mafter Shallow,
curry with mafter
his mens if «« his men, I would

Shahff<a,r.

Shalow.

U were Brutus now, and he were L»'""s,
Shakcffeare.
He (hould not h,mour me.
I

enjoin 'dby
Obedience and fubjeaion were never

iwijt.

Hundredth, ailj. [jjtinbneonteosopa,
Saxon.] The ordinal of an hundred; the

You humour me, when I am fick ;

Why not when I'm fplenelick?

tenth ten times told.

We (hall not need to ufe the hundredth part of

Z^T'
ftnkes
Children are fond of foracthing which
regardlefs of every
their fancy moft, and fuUen and
humoureH in that tancy.
thing elfe, if they are not
^.

.

th.u time,
vcdives.

To fit

;

to comply with.

To after age thou ihalt be writ the man.

That with fmooth air could humour belt

our tongue.
Vflillon.

muflcians to Ak•Tis my part to invent, and the
Dryitn's Preface to AlBion.
mour that invention.
woods,
Founuinbleau is filuated among rocks and

„

.

.

with a great variety of pidures, llrikes the eye

when a perfon fafteth fo long as for want of fpirits,

;

or nervous fluid, to have thofe fibres grow too flaccid
to corrugate, and Uien we fay a perfoij has fafted

latter.

Having a crooked

Thou (halt fcrve thine enemies in hunger and in

back.

The fub acid part of the animal fpirits, being caft
ofTby the lower nerves upon the coats ot the ftomach,
vellicates the fibres, and thereby produces the fenl'e
•
Grevi.
we call hunger,
Something vlfcous, fat and oily, remaining in the
ftomach, dellroys the fenfation of hunger.

began to bunch and pulh one
why don't you go and cut the poor fellow
Arhulhnot.

down >
[Hockr, a crooked back, German.]
crook the back.
.
,.

To
,

Thy crooked mind within bunch' daal thy back.

Arbutbitot on Alimeiils.

Any violent defire.

2.

The immaterial felicities we expea, do naturally

DryJen.

and
hungers for them, without which heaven can be no
Decay ofPieiy.
heaven to us.
Drydcn.
For hunger of my gold I dye.
fuggcft the ncccliity of preparing our appetites

[hunch sa^ back.]

Having a crooked back.
His perfon deformed to the higheft degree, flatL'EJlrange.

nofed, and hunchbacked.

But I more fear Creon

To take that hunchback' d monfter in my arms,
Drydta't Oedipus.
Th' excrefcence of a man.
The fecond daughter was jpecvilh,' haggard, pale,
with fauccr-eyes, a (harp nofe, and hunchbacked.
jirbuibnot's Uifiory of John Bull.
adj.

Drui. xxvii. 48.

thirfV.

friends

Hu'ndhed.

Sluincy.

away his ftomach.

To HUNCH, v. a. \hujch, German.]
with the fills.
1. To ftrike or punch

adj.

Jjuiib,

and

Th' hungerjiarv'd, the naked, and the lame.

Jjunfep^^.

Saxon ; hovderd. Dutch.] The number
confining of ten multiplied by ten.

Dryjen,

Want and difeafes, fled before her name.

Hu'ngreu. adj. [iiom hunger.]

Pinchedi

by want of food.
Odours do in a fmall degree nourilh, and we

fee

Bacon.
men an i6«ffgrr<^ love to fmell hot bread.
Hu'ngrilt. ad-v. [from htoigty.] Withkeen appetita.

Thus much to the kind rural gods we owe,^

And gave 'em nicer palates, better bread.

Drydenv

Feeling pain from want of food.
That face of his the hungry cannibals
Would not have touch'd, would not have ftainM

1.

To Hu'noer. t,'. ». [from the nonn.]
1

To feel the pain of hunger.
My more having, would be as a fauce
To make me hunger more. Shakcffeate't Macielb.
Widely they gape, and to the eye they roar.
As if they hungtr'd for the food they bore. Cowley.

2.

To defire with great eagernefs

;

to long.

Port thou fo hunger for my empty chair,
That thou wilt needs inveft thee with my lionoun.
Before tl>j hour be rije O, loolilb youUi,
.'

Shakeffeare,

with blood.

By eating before he was hungry, and drinking
before he was dry, he was fure never to cat or drink
Ttmfle.
much at a time.
They that talk thus may fay that a man is always

An uneafy fcnfaiion at the ftomach for food. When

ed back high (houldec?.
The chief of the family was bom with a bumf,

And wander'd in thy limbs.

Go, go, chear up thy bungcrjlarved men. Sbakeff^
As to fome holy houfe th' atiliaed came,

at

the ftoinach is empty, and the iibres in their natural
tenfion, they dr.iw up fo clofe as to rub againft each
Other, fo as to make tliat fenfation : but when they
are diftended with food, it is again removed; unlefs

^'"'''•

Hunchba'cket).

AH my followers to th' eager foe
Turn back, and fly like (hips before the wind,
Or lambs purfu'd by hungerjiarved wolves. Sbakrfp*

HU'NGER. «. /. [Jjunjen. Saxon ; hanger,
Dutch.]
Defire of food ; the pain felt from fading.

eyes

2.

Sbakrfpean,

They are all but ftomachs, and we all but food
They eat us i6»»gfr/y, and, when they're full.
Shakefpeare.
They belch us.
Hu'noerstarved. adj. [hunger an&JlarvStarved with hunger; pinched by
ed.]
want of food.

When on harih acorns hungrily they fed.

''''""•

once.

feU.

Jack's
another :

You have fav'd my longing, and I feed
Molt bunger/y on your fight.

1

back and very high nofe,

Hhakefpeare.

A room that is richly adorned, and hung round Hu'ngry. adj. [fiom hunger.]

Hu'mpback. «./. [iuOT/ and ^flfi.] Crook-

adj.

His fops as he was drinking.

Who pity'd fuflFcring mortals long ago

A wife fo hung with virtues, fuch a freight.

Thefe defcfts were mended by matches ; the
the *««;>
were opened in the next generation, and

Humpbacked,

His beard

Grew thin and bungerly, and feem'd to a(k

What mortal Ihoulders can fupport?£>r>J'M'j7«^'"'«/-

r-^gulj"'

See.BuMP.J The protuberance
by a crooked back.

in want of nourimment.

hang.]

Addifon.

bump.
H u M r ». y; [corrupted perhaps fromformed

Hooker.

Hung. [The freterite and part. pajf. oi

profpefts: the
that give a fine variety of favage
place, and only
king has hummrtd the genius of the

made ufe of fo much art as is ncccflary to

which themfelves bellow in making in-

If this medium is rarer within the fun's body
than at its furface, and rarer there than at the
hundredth part of an inch from its body, and rarer
there than at the orb of Saturn, I fee no reafon why
Newton.
the increafe of denfity (hould ifop.

If ails t Loguk.

%.

Hay-ward.

were exhibiied.

of

God to humour the palVions, lufts and vanities
our yiwnwiy
thofe who are commanded to obey

Hu'ngerly. ai//. \itoici hunger.] Hungry;

A canton or divifion of a county, per- Hu'noerlv. adv. With keen appetite.

2.

noun.]
-v. a. [from the
I

His ftrength (hall be buttgei bitten. ^c^xviii. 12.
Thyfelf
Bred up in poverty and ftraits at home j
Milton.
Loll in a defert here, and bungerbit.

Lands,

own

in
In' private, men are more bold
obnoxious
liumaurs ; and in confort, men are more
to take both.
good
is
it
to others humoari ; thercmre

with hunger.

A company, body, or colleftion con-

1.

«. Caprice; whim; predominant inclination.
their

Me biuig'ring more to do my Father's will. Miliatt.
[hunger ini hit.]
Hu'ngerbit.
X"'!]'
Hu'ncerbitten. / rained or weakened

Addifon.

eye-witneffes.

7. Petulance; peevifhnefs.
tion ?

Shakeffeari'i Henry IV. f, ii.
Stay but a little.
^
I content me.
And from the lUng of famine feu no kann.
Not mind it, fi:d with better thoughts that feed

Dryd.

^'"f.''

violent.

Thou fe»k'ft the greatnefs that will ovf rwhelia thee t

A bunirti allavs in her temple fmolt*.
A thoufand bleeding hearu her pow'r invoke. X-n.

morbid difpofitlon.

He denied hirofclf noihing thjl he had »«<>'"<»
him a body lull ol
IP tu or drink, which gave
4,«w«, and made his fit» of the gout frequent and

Is

HUN

HUN

HUN

hungry, but that he does not always feel it ; whereas
Locket
hunger confifts in that very fenfation.
2.

Not fat;

not fruitful;

not prolifick

more difpofed to draw from other fubftances than to impart to them.
Caflius has a lean and hungry look. Shakrffeare.The more fat water will bear fop belt; (or the
hungry water doth kill its unauous nature. Bacon.
In rulhy grounds fprings are found at the firft and
fecond fpit, and fometimes lower in a ij(«gry gravel.
Mortimer.
To the great day of retribution our Saviour teleri
us, for reaping the fruits that we here fow in the
moll hungry and baiTca foil. S ma/ridge's Sermons.

Hunks. «. /. [hunjher, fordid, Iflandick.j

,

A covetous fordid wretch; a mifer; a^
curmudgeon.
The old hunks was well fervcd, to be tricked ovt
of a whole hog for the fecuring ol his puddings.
L'F.Jirangc,
She has a hulhanJ, ajealous, covetous, old hunks.
Dryderit
Irus has given all the intimations of being a clofe

Addifon^

bunki, worth money.

To HUNT.

1'.

a.

[)3untian, Saxon,

from

Jjunb, a dog.
I. To chafe wild animals.

The man that once did fell the lion's (kin.
While ihc beaftliv'J, was kill'd in hunting him.
S/jukeffeare.

Wilt

-

'•ppetitc of the young lions ?

fill

Thy huntrtfs' name, that my full life doth fway.

the

Shall I call

Antiquity from the old fchools of Greece,
To teftify the arms of chaftity ?

and J^urtt him down, however formidable and overgrown
and, on the contrary, Ihelter and defend
viitue.
Addifm.
2, To purfue ; to follow clofe.
Evil (hall bunt the violent man to overthrow him.
;

To fearch for.

Not certaVnly affirming any thing, but by conferring of times and monuments, 1 do bunt out a

Fair filver-lhafted queen, for ever challe.
Milton.
Let old Arcadia boaft her ample plain,
Th' immortal hunlrej;, and her virgin train;
Pope.
Nor envy Windfor,
Homer rcprefents Diana with her quiver at her
fhoulder; but at the fame time he defcribes her as

All that is found in books is not rightly deduced
fuch an cxamcn cv«ry reader's mind
is not forward to make, efpecially in thofewho have

from principles

To direft or manage hounds in the chace.

4«

The mighty Nimrod did purfue
What huntfman of our feeble race.
Waller,
Or dogs, dare fuch a monfter chace ?
z. The fenant whofe office it is to manage

famous for finding hares.
I'o
1

the chace.

Addijon.

Hunt. v. n.
To follow the thafe.

Apply this moral rather to the bunt/man, that
managed the chace, flian to the maimer. L'Ejlrangr:

Hu'ntsmanship. «. /. [from hitntj'maii.'\
The qualifications of a hunter.

When he returns from hunting
I will not fpeak with him. Shakrffrare't King Liar,

Efau weat to the field to bunt tor venifon.
Gen. xxvii. 5.
One followed ftudy and knowledge, and another
Locke.
hawking and bunting.
On the old pagan tombs, malks, hunting matches,
Italy.
a.id Bacchanals are very comaion. Addijon

m

At court your fellows every day
<!ive the art of rhiining, bunifmanjhif, or play.

Donne.

Grate on which criminals were dragged
to execution.
Settle your fine joints 'gainft Thurfdaynext,

Or I will drag thee on a hurdle thither. Shakefpeare,
The blackfmith was hanged, drawn, and quartered

A pack of hounds.
Thecommon iaK/,though from their ragereftrain'd
By fov'reign power, her company difdam'd
Crinn'das thcypafs'd. Dryden' t Hind and Panlber.

i.

Dryden't Georg.

Thcfe all muft be prepar'd.
2.

Hunt. «./. [from the verb.]
I.

Tyburn ; taking pleafure upon the hurdle, to
think that he (hould be famous in after-times. Uactn,
at

HuRDS. n, /.

A chace.

The bunt is up, the mom is bright and gray
The fields arc fragtaut, and the woods are grL-en.

down

abakej'peayf.

to throw

huorii,

Iflandick ; or, according to SUn-

,

tier, from ivhirl.

J.

To throw with riolence

;

to drive im-

petnoufly.

Shakefpeare' s Richard l\\.
On thee
He holds vengeance in his hand.
To fc»r/upon their headsthal break liis law. Shake/
I with my nails digg'd ftones out of the ground.
!

If thofe Englilh lords had been good burners, and

reduced the mountains, boggr, and woods within ilic
limits of forefts, chaces, and parks, the forell law
would have driven them into the plains,
Dwuiet on Ireland.
Down from a hill the bcait that reigns in woods,
FifA hunter then, purfu'd a gentle brace,
Milton.
Coodliell of all the forcil, hart and hind.
Another's crimen th' unhappy hunter bore,
Glutting his f^her's eyes with guiltlcfs gore.
Dryden*! Ain,

To hurln the beholders of my lh.ime.
They

As madmen rtoncs.

T I N c H o R .N

Tope.

,

V. f. [hunting and horn

]

a horn ufed to cheer the hounds.
Whilft a boy. Jack ran from fchool,
Fond of his huntinghorn and pole.
Prior,

in

\hurl and au/W.]
whirlwind ; a violent guft. A word not
in ufe.

Like fcatter'd down by howling Eurus blown.
By rapid burl-winds from his manfion thrown.Siim/yr.
Hu'rly.
7 »./. [from the French;

2.

To

with vehemence. [Hurler,
French, to make an howling or hideous
This fenfe is not in uie>
noife.]
The glad merchant that docs view
Utter

His (hip far come from vrat'r; wtldeinefs,
.

Winds take thy ruffian billows by the top.
Sbakeff.
That with the burly death itfelf awakes.
Poor dilcontents.

Which gape and rub the elbow at the news
Shakefpeare,
Oi hurlyburly innovation.
Sbakifp.
Methinks, 1 fee this h'urly all on foot.
All places were filled with tumult and buriyby
the
danger
his own
mealurcd
iurly, every man
fear; and fuch a pitiful cry was in every place,
Knolles,
and in cities prefently to be bcficged,

He burls out vowi.

ftorm, fuch as is often experienced in the
weftern hemifphere.
Blow winds, and crack your cheeks
Shakefpeare,
Your catarafts and hurricanoes fpoiit
!

A (lorm or hurricano, though but the force of air,
Burnett

every man and woman too in his plays ftark raging
mad : all was tempelluous and bluftecing ; heaven
and earth were coming together at every word ; a
mere hurricaneitam the beginning to the end. Dtyi.
Tlie miniftcrs of ftatc, who gave us law.

In corners with fclcfted friends withdraw;
There, in deaf murmurs, folemnly arc wife,
Whifp'ring like winds, ere hurricanes arife. Dryde»,
So, where our wide Numidian waftes extend,
Sudden th' impetuous hurrifanes itkirA,

Wheel through the air, in circling eddies play.
Tear up the fands, and fwecp whole plains away.

Pope,

A wo-

At»l thou thrice crowned queen ofniglif, furvey
froia thy pale fpbctc above,

With thy cbaAe eye,

A

Hu'rlwind. n. f.

Ben, Jon/on,

;

Hu'ntress. ft./, [from ittnter.^
man that follows the chace.

left

His darling Ions,
Ilurtd keadking to partake with us, (liall cutfc
Milton.
Their frail original atul faded blifs.
She iVikes the lute ; but if it found.
Waller,
Threatens to hurl it on the ground.
Corrupted light of knowledge buri'd
Sin, death, and ignorance, o'er all the world.
Denhasn,
Young Phaeton,
From Eaft to North irregularly hurl'd,
Firll fet himfelf on fire, and ihen the world. Dry Jen,
Conjure him far to drive the Grecian train.
And hurl'd them headlong to (heir fleet and main.

Of dogs, the valu'd file
Diflinguilhes the fwift, the llow, the fublle.
The houlekeeper, the hunter,
Hballrff. Macbeth.
.V

the

Chron, tii. 2.

Hurl ink and wit.

A dog that fcents game or beads of prey.

'

him iiy layNumh. xxxv. 10.

ufe both the right haiid and

burling <iona.

wu

A bugle

Sbakrfpf,tre.

If hethruft him ofhitred, ori;^»/at

ing of wait.

the arms or device of our old Roman
This
hunttrt \ a pallagc af Manilius let us know the pagan
hunters had Meleager lor their patron.
Addijon.
Bold Nimrod hrii the lavage chace began,

Hu

at hurling.
The hurleys mult hurl man to man, and not two fet
upononc man at once. Careuu'sSurvey of Cornxuall.

A poet who had a great genius for tragedy, made

O, let them keep it 'till thy fins be ripe,
.^nd then hurl down their indignation

food.

A mighty Awfl^ff-, and his game was man.

Aiiifiuorthm

Hu'rler. 11. f. [fromW/.] One that plays

makes a ftrange havock where it comes.

If heav'ns have any grievous plagues in (lore,

Hu'nte*.*./. [from ^«w/.]
I. One who chafes animals for paftime or

z.

Knolles*

Hu'rlb.\t. w./ \hurlwAhat.'\ Whirlbat.

The refufe of hemp or flax. Hu'rricane. 7 ». /. [hitracmt, Spanifti ;
ouragan,Yr.'\ Aviolcnt
Ain/ivorth, Hu'rricano. J

To HURL. 1: a. [from

3. Parfuit.
I've heard myfelf proclaim'd j
And by the happy hollow of a free,
Etcap'd the bunt.
Shakrff rarest f^'tg Liar.

Tumult;

[from the verb.]

riot ; commotion.
He in the fame hurl murdering fuch as he thought
would withftaod his defire, was chofen king.

;

crate.

The fled, the tumbril, hurdles and the flail,

Very much of kin to this is the bunting after
arguments to make good one fide of a queftion^ and
wholly to neglect and refufe thofe which favour the
Lecit.
other fide.

:

Hu'rdle. ». /. [l))ribel, Saxon ]
Hu'rly BURLY. J ]6«r/«irc/«, inconfider1. A texture of fticks woven together; a
Tumult ; commotion buttle.
ately.]

To pnrfne or fearch.

2.

Hurling taketh its denomination from throwing
of the ball, and is of two forts ; to goats, and to
the country
for burling to goals there arc fifteen
or thirty players, more or lefs, chofen out on each
fide, wiio rtrip themfelvcs, and then join hands its
ranks, one againft another: out of thefc ranks they
match thcmliilves by pairs, one embracing another,
and fo pafs away ; every of which couple arc to
Carev:,
watch one another during this play.

:

He hunti a pack of dogs better than any, and is
'

To play at a kind of game.

Hurl. «. /.

Like as a huntfrnany after weary chace,
Seeing the game efcape from him away.
Spenjer's Sonnets,
Sits down to reft him.
Such game, whilft yet the world was new,

:

given themfelvcs up to a party, and only bunt for what
Locke,
may favour and fupport the tenets of it.

Broome.

an buntrrfs.

Hu'xTSMAN. »./. \ht4nt and man.~\
I. One who delights in the chace.

Spenfcr.

probability.

3.

Hence had the buntrefs Dian her dread bow,

Pf. cxl.

The heart ftrikes five hundred forts of pulfes in
an hour, and is bunttd unlo fuch continual palpitations, through anxiety, that fain vould it break.
Harvey vn CmfumptioHi,

Highly they rag'd againft the Highel^,
Hurting defiance towards the vaults of heav'n.
Milton,

Sbalie/peare,

jfct. xxiviii. 39,

We ihould fingle every criminal out of the herd,

3.

HUR

HU R

HtSH
wit tliMi iimt the prey for tht lion, or

Sprt/ir,

Addifon.

\..

Hu'rrier.

«. /.

rfrom iartj.J

hurries ; a difturber.
Mars, that horrid hmricr of m*".

One that

.

Chapman,

To Hu'rry. -v. n. [Jjens'a". 'o ptunJer,
Saxon: hurs was Iikewifi; a word ofed
by the old Germans in urging their horfei
to fpeed ; but feems the imperative of
To haften ; to put into prethe verb.]
cipitation or confufion ; to dtivc confufedly.

Your noblei will not hear ytm ; but are gone

To olTer fcrvicc to your enemy
And wild amazement hurries up and do%vn
The little number of your doubtful friends.

Shak.

For whom all this haltc
Of midnight march, and hurrfj meetmg here
Milton.
Impetuous lufl hurritt him on to fatilfy it. South.

HUR
chievous ;

DiyJex.
in virtiM>

his foul

and come up

to

Addijon.

Stay thofe fudden gults of paflion,
Roiue's Royal Convert.
If a council be called, or a batile fought, you are
not coldly informed, the reader is hurried out ot
himfclf by the poet's imagination.
Ptfe't Preface to the Iliad.

Hurry, nj.

n.

Hu'rtfully. aJv. [from hurt/u/.]
».

[from

/.

hurtful.']

Mifchievoufnefs ; pernicioufnefs.

precipitation.
Did you but know what joys your way attend.
You would not hurry to your journey's end. Dryd.
Tumult;
Htj'R.RY. «./. [from the verb.]

Te Hu'rtle.

French;

[heurleur,

n.

i).

To chfli

uriare, Italian.]

;

Baetiit.

In thofe fields
The painful bujband plowing up his ground.
Shall find all fret with ruft, both pikes and (hieldi.
Hakrwillt
If continu'd rain

The lab'riog bujhand in his houfc ivdrain.
Let him forecatt his work.
Dryden' s Georgics^
To Hu'sBANO. T. a. [from the noun.]
1. To fupply with an hulband.
Think you I am no Itronger than my Tex,
Being fo father'd and fo bujbandei T
ShaktffeartmIf you (hall prove
This ring was everher's, you Ihall aseafy
Prove that I hujbanded her bed in Florence,

to fkirmifh ;

to run againft any thing ; to joftle ; to
meet in (hock and encounter.
Hanmer.

commotion.
Among all the horrible hurries in England, Ireland

precipitation ;

The noife of battle hurtled in the air.

Where yet (he never was.

Shakeff.

Made him give battle to the lionefs,

Who quickly fell before him

;

in

By me inverted, he compeers the be(>.
That were the moft, if he Ihould bujhand yoo.

—

which huriling.

From miferable dumber I awak'd.

South.

Shakeffeare,

Sbakefp. As you like it.

After the violence of the hurry and commotion
was over, the water came to a ftaie fomewhat more

To manage with frugality.

2.

a.
To move with violence or impetuofity.
This is probably
the original of hurl.
Obfolete.

Tt Hu'rtle. v.

H^oodiLiard.
calm.
Ambition raifes a tumult in the foul, it inflames
the mind, and puts it into a violent i*rrji of thought.

His harmful club he 'gan

AJdifin.

It will be paftime pafTing excellent^If it be bujhanded with modefty.
Shakeffeare..
The French, wifely bujbandin^ the podedion of a
viiSory, kept themfelves within their trenches.

to hurtle high.

Bacon's Henry VII,

And threaten battle to th« fairy knight. Fairy

Slum.
A long train of coaches and fit ran through the Hu'rtleberry. »./. \hiort bar, Danilh.]
heart, cnc after another, in a very great hurry.

Her parents liking well it Ihould be fo

.

To mifchief

to harm.
;
He that overcometh (hall not be hurl of the fecond

Dry den's ^n.
Receiving no hurt.
Hu'rtlessly. ad'v. \{iQm hurllefs.] Without harm.

2.

death.
Re^iclaliom.
Virtue may be afTail'd, but never burl ;
Surpriz'd by unjuft force, but not enthrall'd. Milton.
'f he Adonis of the fea is fo called, becaufe it is a
loving and innocent

6fl),

that hurls nothing

has life.

Your neighbours have found you

that

tt'alion.

harm.

My heart
<J*rrr

is

turn'd to ftone : 1 ftrike

my hand.

and

it,

it

Shtiie/feare's Othel/o.

It breeds contempt
7or herds to liltcn, or prefuroe to pry.

See thou hurt not tbe oil and wine.

Revelations.

Hurt. «./. [from jhe verb.]
Harm; mifchief.'

i.

my hurt,

Getiejis.

found it Hand there uocorrccied, as if there had
Baker on Lea'tiKg.
been no >*;fr/ done.
1

Wound or bruife.

Thy bujiand is thy lord, thy life, thy keeper.
Thy head, thyfovereign. Shak.TumingcftbeShrev).
Why, woman, your bu/band is in his old lunes
again
he fo takes on yonder with my bujltand, and

Sfenferm.

Peace hath from France too long been chas'd ;

And all her hujbandry doth lie on heaps.
Corrupting in its own fertility. Shakeff, Henry V,
Her plenteous womb
Expreffeth its full tilth and hujiandry.

•

Raleigh.
Hujban.dry the Spaniards wanting in the valleys of
Mexico, could not make our wheat bear feed.

In arms and fcieoce 'tis the fame,
Our rival's hurts create our fame.

£a;rrf.

One that

to the fevcral

Dryden.
praftifes the

;

a

man that knows and

methods of frugality and

Its fignification is always modified

;

hujbandry,

makes the value.

Edward I. fliewed himfelt 3 r\ihl goad hujband
ownerof alordfhipill hulbanded. Davieson Ireland.
I was coniidering the Ihortncfs of life, and what
ill bujbands we are of fo tender a fortune.
Collier.

A tiller of tbe ground

of

tillage,

and

'Temple.

Let any one confider the difference between an
acre of laud fown with wheat, and an acre of the
fame land lying without any hujiandry upon it,
and he will lind that the improvement of labour

by fome epithet implying bad or good.

4..

trades

pafturage.

•

An oeconomift

3.

profit.

wreng,

A family governed with order will fall naturally

I'refer him not in halie, for bujiand to thy fold.

Pritr.

Whyihould damage grow to thei«r;of the King >

[from burtJ]

Raleigh.

Ev'n though a fnowy ram thou (halt behold,

Carter adventured bravely, and received two great
hurts in his body.
Hayuard.
The pains of ficknefs and hurls, hunger, tbiift
and cold» all men feel.
Lode.

'

ftrength of felf-nature.

The male of animals.

2.

Shakeff.

The feeds of virtue may, by the hu/handry of
Chriftian- counfel, produce better fruit than the

Locke,

Shakeffeare' s Coriolanus.

docs harott

Hujbandry fupplieth all things neceiTary for food.

married mankind.
Shakeffeare.
This careful bujhand had been long away.
Whom his chafte wife and little children mourn.
Dryden.
The contraft and ceremony of marriage is the

he received feven hurls i' th' body.

n. /,

\. Tillage; manner of cultivating land.
He began with a wild method to run over all the
art of hujbandry, efpecially employing his tongue
about well dunging of a field.
Sidney.
Alk'd if in bujiandty he ought did know.
To plough, to plant, to reap, or fow. Huiherd's Tale.

occaGon of the denomination of relation of bi(/hand.

.—There will be large cicatrices to (hew the people

Hu'rter.

Hu'sBANDRY. adj. [from hufband.]

The correlative to wife ; a man married

Where is the wounded ?

3. Injury ;

This Davy ferves you for good ufes ; he is your
fervingman, and your bujhandman.
Shakeffeare^
The mule beir^ more fwifi in his labour than
the ox, more ground was allowed to the mule bjr
the bujhandman.
Broome.

fo

fo rails againft all

Spenfer.

2.

's

One who wgrks in tillage.

:

The burl thereby is greater than tbe good.
I have flain a man to

H u B A N D M A N. ». /. \hujhand and man.]

to a woman.

To damage; to impair.

3.

hujband.\

thrifty.
Bare plots full of galls, if ye plow overthwart
And compafs it then, is a bujbandly part.
tujftr,

Hu'rtlessness. ». /. [from hurtUfs.]
Freedom from any pernicious quality.
HU'.SBAND. n.f {husband, mafter, Danilh,
1.

Drydtn.

[from

A widow, hujhandtefs, fubjeft to tears ;
A woman, naturally born to fears.
Shakefp.
Husbandly. c(^'. \iioTi\hufband.] Frugal j.

from houfe and bonda, Runick, a mafter.]

When the hurt lion groans wiihin his den.

Bacon.

Hu'sbandless. adj.
Without an hufband.

hurtUfsly
ftrong, that they rhougUt it better to reft in your
friendlhip than make new trial of your enmity.
Sidney.

To wound ; to pain by fome bodily

2,

;,

For fimple goodnefs (hined in his eyes.
Sidney
She joy'd to make proof of her cruelty
gentle
dame,
fo hurllefs and fo true.
On
Fairy ^een.
Shorter ev'ry gafp he takes.
And vain efiartsand hurllefs blows he makes.

wounded, Saxon ;

ground with,

a great rent.

Where bold and hurtle/s many a play he tries.

heurter, to (trike, French.]

Heriertt

to cultivate the

.\ farmer cannot bujiand his ground, if he (its it

Unto her home he oft would go.

A

;

proper management.

no harm.

grove
or thicket of trees.
Ainf'worth.
To Hurt. t. a. preter. I hurt; part. pafl".

r.

To till

3.

Innocent ; harmlefs ; innoxious; doing

1.

Gay*s Trivia.

[))yn'c,

And give men turns of fpeech.

Hu'rtless. aiij. [from hurt.]

And the inixt hurry barricades the llreet.

I have hurt.

If thou be mafter-gunner, fpend not all

That thou canlt fpeak at once ; but bujiand it.

Bilberry ; iaeca "vitis idiea.

AddifuK.
1 do not include the life of thofe who are in a
perpetual hurry of affairs, but of thofe who arc not
always engaged.
Addifon.
The pavement founds with trampling feet.

Hurst. ». /. [)3yr'r^> Saxon.]

Sbaktffttrer.

Jn my right.

Kindnefs

Hayviard.
It might have pleafed him in the prefent heat and
hurry of his rage ; but muft have difpleafed him in-

was thisn almoft quiet.

finitely in the fedate retleftion.

Mif-

chievoufly ; pemicioufly.

Hu'rtfulness.

move on with

i'o

HkiherJ'i Tafrr,
heard t great bujiand fay^ that it was a commo»
trror to think that chalk heipech arable grounds.
I

U but only our own

:

That hurry you away,

9"<»

tJu/lani'i work ii taborioui and hiri.

Mif-

hurt
one man's contempt of the common prayer
of the church of Cod may be mofl hurt/u/ ualo many.
hooker.
The burtfulhiih in the vineyard (hun.
Nor plant it to receive the fetting fun.
Dry den's Georgirs,

the

perfe£%ian of his nature, before he is iurrUtl oR the

Aage.

^hurt zni fill."]
pernicious.
adj.

Secret negled) of our duty

A man has not time to fubdue his palbons,
cf^ablilh

H US

HUS
\ Hu'RTrui,

Thtthurry'do'er
Such fwarmi ot togUfh to the neighV'rlng fliorc.

2.

Locke.

Thrift; frugality; parfimony,
'"rhcre's hujbandry in heaven ;

The candles are all out.
Shakeffeare's Machetb,
You have already faved feveral millions to the

a farmer.
j

fublicki and that wbat wc alk it too intoolideuble

any

Into

Arctic

lules

of

g«od
Svift.

the ftrickeft

hujkaniry.
_

domeftick affairs.
J. Care of
Lorenio, I commit into your hands
The bujhandry and manage of my houfe.

hUbH.

Sbaktff.

[Without etymology.]
Silence! beftill! no noife
The king hath done you wrong ; but tajh ! 'tis fo
interj.

!

Sbak^peaTf.
There's fomething elfe to do; iujb and be mute,

Or elfe our fpell is marr'd.

Sbaki/ftaii'i ttmffjt.

Hush. adj. [from the interjection.]

To be ftill

;

you feed upon bujk! mftead of kernels.

kyails.

To Husk. v. a. [from the noun.]

To drip

Hu'sKED. adj

Another feemcd envioui or coy
Another in her teeth did gnaw a nilh
But at thefe ftrangera prefence e»ery one did biijh.

To ftill; to filence ; to
quiet ; to appeafe.
Yet can I not ot fuch tame patience boalV,

As to be hufht, and nought at all to fay.

Sbtkrff.

King's Cookery,-

To Huzza', v. a.

With timely care

Upon your llubbo^o ufage el the pope ;
But lince you are a fntle eonveri ice.

My tongue fliall hujh again this ftorm oTwar,

woman

It is often
a worthlefs wench.
;
ufed ludicroufly in flight difapproba'ion.
Get you in, bujfy^ go now will I pcrfonale this
:

Hu'sTiNGs. ». /.

Sbakt/ftare.

And the bleak winds Oiall whiftlc round our heads.
Will thou then talk thui to me > Wilt thou then
Hxjb my cares thus, and (heller me with love ?
Ofway,
Hujh'i at midnight filence go
He will not have your acclamations now. Drydin.
Her fire at lengih is kind.
Calms ev'ry itorm, and bujhet cv'ry wind ;
Prepares his empire tor his daughter's eafe.
And for his batching nephews Iraooths the kit.

Dryden,

The court was bujhed^ and a whifper ran Addijan.
.

To H u»H «/. -v. a. To fupprefs in filence
to forbid to be mentioned.
This matter is b:ijhid uf, and the fcrvants are forbid

A

is

hufivifr or huj/y in a

A bufivife, that, by felling herdefires.
2.

Buys herfelt bread and cloth. Sbakefftare' s Othello,
An OEConomift ; a thrifty woman.
Why Ihould you want ?
The bounteous hufv^ife^ Nature, on each bufb
Sbakefpeare.
Lays her fulnefs bclore you,

To Hu'swiFE

HuJbm'iJtty fends 10 all the neighbours round ;
His matter, unfufpicious of his pranks,
Pays all the coft, and gives thc«illain thanks. Sviifi.

fruits.
Do but behold yon poor and ftarved band.
And your fair (hew (hall fuck away their fouls,
loving them but (he (bales and bufit ot men.
Sbakefprare,
Moft feeds, in their growing, leave their bujk or
Bacon^s Natural Hijlory,
viod about the root.
Thy food (hal! be
The fre(b brook mudds, withered roots, and bu^t
Wherein the acorn cradled. Sbaktffiare't Ttmf-fl.
Piuiu ol all kinds, in coat
Kough, or imooih rind, or bearded bujki, orlhelt
She gathers; tribute brge! and on the board
Heaps with unfpanng hdiid,
Milton.
Some Iteep their feeds, and fome in cauldrons boil
O'er gentle nies; the ciuberani juice to drain,
And Ir dl the Batt'ring buftt with truittui grain.

Drydtn.

Some when the prcfs
Haadrain'dihe pulpous mafs, regale their fwine

W>(& (he dry reiujic j tboU| oiore wiic, fbaltllcep

a.

[from the noun.]

But hufzL-ifngxht little Heav'n had lent,.
She duly paid a groat for qjarter's-rcnt i
And pinch'd her belly, with her daughters two^
Dryden.
To bring the year about with much ado.

Hu'swiFERV. » /. ]Jtom hiifri.ife,\
1. Management good or bad.

[o«xi>^®-;

It

hath a bulbous root:

the leaves are lonpanl

narrow : the ftalk is upright and naked, the flowers
growing on the upper part in a fpike : the flower*
cor.lill each of one leaf, are naked, tub-ilofe, and
cut into fix divilions at the brim, which are re»
flexed
the ovary becomes a roundilh truit with
three angles, which' is divided into three cells,,
which are blled with roundilh feeds.
Miller,
The filken fleece, impurpl'd tor the loom,
Rival'd the hyacinth iuvernalbloom. Pope's Odyfffy,
:

2.

The hyacinth is the fame with the tapis
of the ancients.
It is a lefs
ihewy gem than any of the other red

lyncuriiis

ones.

It

is

feMom fmaller than a feed

It
of hemp, or larger than a nutmeg.
is found of various degree
of decpnefs
and paienefs ; but its colour is always a
dea-lilh red, with aconfiderable admixtureof yellow ; its moft ufual is that mixed-;
red and yellow, which we know by the
Hilton Fojjils,
name of flame colour
i

HvACi'itTHiNE. adj. rtia»t»&i»©- ]

Made:

of hyacinths ; refemnling hyacinthsw
Hy'adi;s. )». y. [t^oJi?.]
A watery. con-.ftellation.
Hx'ad.s. )
Then failors (juarter'd heav'n, .and-founda name

For cv'ry hx'd and ev'ry wand'ring ftar;.

Dryden' sGeorgicks,.
The f\z\iA%,hyads.
Hy'ai.ine. adj. \yxMt®- .'\ Glafly ; cry—
llaliine ; made glafs ; fembling glafs..
From heav'n-gate not jar, founded in. view
adj.

['J?;'«,

Miliar,

hybriJa, Latin ;:

Begotten between, animals

HI bufv>iftry lyeth

hyacinthet.

A flower.

On the clear hyaline^ the gUlfy lea..

To rife with the cock \

of different

fpccies.

Till "line ol the clock.

2.

«. /.

Fr. hyacinthus, Latin.]

Hy'bridous.

(iood bupwifery trieth.

VuJ/er.

Why fuch diflTerent fpecies (hjuldnot only mingle

Management of rural bufinefs committed
to women.

together, but alfo generate an anim J, and yet that
that hybridoH- produftion (hould not .igain generate,,
is to

If cheefei in dairie have Argus his eyes,

Tell Cidey the fault in her huf-wifeiy lies .

HU.^K. «. /. [huUjch. Dutch, Of huy/cktu, Hut. »./.
outmoll integument of

"u.

To manage with oeconomy and frugality..

A

A dcit'rousftcward,when his tricks are found,

bad fenfe.

Biduca,

pay to

fccure filence.

.

common to ufc hou/muife in a good, and

Piff.

[huJb znd mcgfy.^

hinder information ;

[jjuj-Tinj, Saxon.]

H o's w F E »./. [corrupted from houfe'wifeS\
It
.. A bad manager; a forry woman.

Speak Ibftly ;
Shakrfftare't TtmprJI
All's bttfit as midnight yet
My love would fpeak; my duty ^«)ftfi me. Sbak.
When in a bed of Itraw we Ihrmk together.

to talk ol it.

Soutbern's Innocent Adultery.

hopeful young jade.

I

And make bit weather in your bUift'ring land.

He was huxxaed into the court by feveral thoufands »f weavers and clothiers.
Adctifon,

I.

Shave the goat's (haggy beard, left thou too late
In vain (hould'ft feck a ftrainer, to difpart
The hujky terrene dregs from purer muft. PbtWps,
Hu'ssY. n. f. [corrupted from houfrwij'e :
taken in an ill fenfe.
A forry or bad

To receive with accla«

mation.

Hv'acinth.

council ; a court held.
fo Hu'sTLE. 11. (7. [perhaps corrupted from
hurtle,} To (hake together in confnfion.

my breath that blew this tempeft up«

1 he

'\

Dryden' t yirgil.

ToWviH. -J. a.

from hyy:.^

A caldron of fat beef, and ftoop of alCf
On the bu^xaing mob Ihall ftill prevail.

A biijky barveli froi» the grudging ground.

Sftnfer.

to

To utter acclamation.

Bearing an

[from hufi
huflc; covered with a hulk.

the intefjeftion.]

to be filent.

did bliifh

bribe

To Huzza', ij. ». [from the interjeftion.J

.

Sbakijfeatt' i UamUi.

Hu'srfMONFY. »./.

One felf-approving hour whole years outweighs
Ol ftupid ftarers and of loud bux.xas,
Popf».

off the outward integument.

Mull have found

This frown'd, that fawo'd, the third for fliame

It ivas

me cool..
Ariatbnit^.
All fame is foreign, but of true defert
Plays round the head, but comes not to the heart:

let

rlilfipt.

Barley for ptifan was firft fteeped in water till it
fwelled i afterwards dried in the fun, then beat till
the bujk was taken off, and ground.
Arbutbrtot on Coins,
Do not content yourfelves with mere words, left

ftitl.

The bold winds fpeechkls, and the orb below

7o Hush. -v. n. [from

ivf and night;, iuazas and huntlng-flomi tieftf-

Abounding in
Hu'sitv. adj. [from/t-/J.]
huOcs ; confiding of hulks.

As we alien fee, againft fome ftormi

A &Icnce in the heav'ns, the rack ftand

The i(i^i!n water, and again emptoy
The pond'rous engine.

Still;

filent; quiet.

As hujb as death.

H YD

Hu z

H t; s
(s

[Jjurre, iiaxon ;

7ufftr.

ita.?, French.]

A poor cottage.
Our wand'ring faint), in woful (late.

Where dwelt a good u'.d honeft yeonun,

Who kindly did thefe fainu invite
Swift.

In his poor hut to pal's the night.
Sore pierc'd by wintry wind,.
I

Thomfor.

Hutch, n f. [))pacca, Saxon; buchi, Fr.J
A corn chert.
The bert way to keep them, after they are threlhed,
is

to

dry them well, and keep them in huirbes, or

Mortimer.

clofe calks.

To

Huzz. -v. n. [from the found.]
buzz

;

To

to murmur.

A

(bout ; a cry of acclamation.
The bux,x.at of the rabble are the fame to a bear

Huzza', irtterj.

Ray^^

[from iXf.] 'Little
tranfparent bladders of water in any pare:
moft common it* dropfical perfons, from,
a diftention or rupture of the ly mphe ufts.
n. f.

I

To a fmall cottage came at laft.

How many Ihrmk into the fordid Itut
Of cheerlefs poverty

me a inyltery.

Hvda'tides.

L'kjirange.
a> they are to a prince.
You keep a parcel of roaring bulUet about oie

All the water is contained in little bladders, adhering to the liver and peritoneum, known by the
kfi/rman..
name of hyita tides,

Hy'dra. »./. [hydia, Latin.] A monfter
with many heads (lain b/ Hercules :
whence any multiplicity of evils istermeda hydrai

New rebellions raife
Their I'ydra heads, and the falfe North difplays

Her broken league to I'lipherfcrpent wings. Milloita
More formidable IjyJra ftands within,
Whofe jaws with iron-tcelh fcverely grin. Drydenm,
Subdue

The bydra of the many-headed hilTing crew. Dryd,
Hy'dragooues. ?/./. \yiu^ and ay« ; hydragogue, Fr.] Such medicines as occafion
the difciiarge of watery humours, which
i»-

HTM

HTD
ts fWikfttlv the cafe of the ftroHger catharticks, becaufe they iliake moft forcibly the bowels and their appendages.

the more we drink the more we (hall thirft. 'Tilhlfon.

HYDROSTA'TICAL.

be rcconcileable to thia hyJrofljiical law there will
be always fomething lighter beneath, and fomcthing
heavier above ; becaufe bone, the heavieft in fpecie,

J

:

Among ihc engines in «hich the »ir is uftful,
be accounted,

Dirham.

According to hydroftaticks.
The weight of all bodies around the earth is ever

ticit!.']

drauliik engine, in which a chymical liquor, refembling blood, ii driven through elaftick channels.
Arbutiml and Pope.

proportional to the quantity of their matter: for inftancc, a pound weight, examined hydrojlaiic^lly,

HYDRAUL'ICKS, «./. [^S-^e, water, and

doth always contain an e^ual quantity of lolid mafs.

The fcience of conveying

water through pipes or conduits.
Hy DROC e'l e. n./. [o<J!»M)(A» ; hydnceU, Fr.]

A watery rupture.

Bentley.

hydroftatique, Fr.]

ing fluids

;

Arbutbnot

ventricles of the brain.

purges into *;'(/ro//V*i and pufgersof bile. Arbutbnot.

the

Diet.

tti

Hydro'crather, »./. [ioVf and vf «<f *
One who draws maps
hd^ngraphe, Fr.j

;

Hy'en.

and yj*^";
Defcription of the

Hy'dromancv.

fi.

f.

['J^^S

and f/^ayriu;

Pre<li<5lion by water.

hjJromautU, Fr.]

Divination was invented by the Perfians : there
are four kinds of divination j hydromancy \ pyrojiylif'mancy, aeromancy, and geomancy.

Hy'dromel. ». / [i'sVpand |«.iAi
Honey and water.
«</, French.]

;

hydro-

Hydromel is a drink prepared of honey, being
one of the moft pleafant and univerfal drinks the
northern part of Europe affords, as well at one of
Mortimer.
the moll ancient.
In fevers the aliments prefcribed hy Hippocrates
were ptifans and cieam ol barley bydrtmel, that is,
honey and water, when there was no tendency to a
Arbuthnot.
delirium.

Lat.]

An animal like a wolf, faid

Sbakrfpearc.

fleep.

A wonder more amazing would we find
Th' hyena (hews it, of a double kind

Their tuneful harps, when tliey to heav'n would fing.
Dryden.

grometre, Fr.]

Wliofe bulinefs were to ferve the Lord

High up in heav'n, with fongs to hymn his throne.
Mitttn.

To fing fongs of adora-

To Hymn. o/. n.
tion.

They touch'd their golden harps, and hymning
prais'd

God and his works.
He had not left alive this patient faint.

Milton,

This anvil of affronts, but fent him hence.
To hold a peaceful branch of palm above.

And hymn it in the (juire.

Hy'mmick.

adj.

Drydcn's Spanljh Trltr,

[o"/[*i®-.j

Relating

to

hymns.
He rounds the air, and breaks the bymnici notes
In birds, heav'n's chorifters, organick throats ;
Which, if they did not die, might feem to be
Donne.
tenthrankin the heavenly hierarchy.

A

To Hyp. f.

a.

[barbaroufly contrad^ed

hypochoitdriaci.]

To make melan-

:

An inftrument to meafure

the degrees of moifture.

A fponge, perhaps, might be a better hygrometer
Arbuthnul on Air.
than the earth of the river.
Hy'croscope. ?/. /. [uy?^ and irxTia
_

hygro/cope, Fr.]

to wor(hip with hymns.

from

Varying the fexes in alternate years.
In one begets, and in another hem.Drydex's Fables.
The hyena was indeed welljoined with the bevcr,
as having alfo a bag in thole parts, if thereby we
underftand the hyena odorata, or civet cat.
Brotvn's Vulgar Errors,
Thomfoti.
The keen byena, felleft of the fell
Hygrometer, n.f. [y'/{oi and fi^tT^iv ; hy.

An inftrument to (View

choly ; to difpirit.
1

have been to the laft degree, hypped fince I faw
SpeSlator.
you.

A figure

Hy'pallage. »./. [nVaWneyi.]

by which words change their cafes with
each other.

HypER. «r. /.

[A word barbaroufly cur-

tailed by Prior from hypercriticl. ]

A hy-

percritick ; one more critical than ne¥rior did not know the
ceflity require?.

meaning of the word.
Criticks I read on other men.

And bypers upon them again.

Prior.

HYPE'RBOLA.

Moifture in the air is difcovercd by bygrofcopes.
Arbutbnot.

n.f. {hyperhle, Fr. iVs;
and /3aAA«.] In geometry, a fedion of
a cone made by a plane, fo that the axis
of the feftion inclines to the oppqfite leg
of the cone, which in the parabola is

Hyla'rchical. adj. [Syri and if»i.] Pre-

parallel to it, and in the ellipfis interftrfls

the moifture and drynefs of the air, and
to meafure and eftimate the quantity of

;

^inty.

either extreme.

Hydro'meter. »./. [i^pand/Afrpw.] An
inftrumcnt to meafure the extent or profundity of water.
Hydro'metry. ». /. [i^^f and ^iTpw.]
The aft of meafuring the extent of water.

hyce?ia,

;

[ui>u(

hydrographie, Fr.]
watery part of the terraqueous globe.

» /• hyeiie, Fr.

fabnioufly to imitate human voices.
1
I will weep when you are difpofed to be merry
will laugh like a hyin, when you are inclined to

^eV''-

HYDRo'cRArHY. ». /.

1

Hye'na. J

ot the fea.
hyiroIt may be draum from the writings of oor
graph, n.

\jj^«i\ hydrotique, Fr.]

Purger of water or phlegm.
He feems to have been the firft who divided

A hyJ-ocrpbalui, or dropfy of the head, is only
when the ferum is cxtravafated into

BtcoM,
the nativity of our Saviour.
Farewell, ye happy (hadej.
hymns,
and firing
Where angels firft (hould praftife

The fcience of weigh-

weighing bodies in fluids.

^

A dropfy in the head.
incurable

viv^ vafi j«ti»u;

HydrOSTa'tICKS. «./.

Hydroce'phalus. «. /. [W*fandKi<f«W»i.] Hydro'tick. v.f.

.

Soft as the parafite's filk, let hymns be raaih
An overture for the wars. Shake/peare's CarlolamM,
There ii an hymn fung ; but the fubjetl of it
the praifes of Adam, and Noah and
is always
Abraham, concluding ever with a thankfgiving far

Hydrosta'tically. adv. [from hydro/ia- TaHymn. f. a. [ti';*»i'»i.] To praife in fongi

Wc have employed a virtuofo to make an »>-

uvx<&-, a pipe.]

Bentley.

will be ever in the midft.

and other byJrtiulical

engines.

and

[i^«f

Relating to h)tlroftaticks ;
taught by hydroftaticks.
A human body forming in fuch a fluid, will never

Relating to the conveyance of water throogh pipes.

pumps may

adj.

5«T<)ui..]

Hydrav'i.icai.. 7 <T</r. ffrom fyJrmlick.]

Hvdrau'lick.

HtP
When fteel grows

Every luft is « kind of hydropick diftemptr, »nd

_

Hydro'phobia.
pbebit, Fr ]

1).

/.

[i(5poip<>/3i<« ;

fiding over matter.
fpccies of dog;
Hym. n. f.

hydro-

is by

unlcfs it

miftake for Lym.

Harris,

MaftifF, greyhound, mungril grim,
Hound or fpaniel, brache or hym ;

that follow the

ot water
bite of a mad dog, the hylrofbobia, or dread
Siuincy.
is the moft remarkable.
^

Had

Or bobtail tike, or trundle tail,
will make him weep and wail.

Tom
HydropICAL. / <7;^'. [l^peT«3«; hydro- Hy'meN.
/. [uf/jv.']
Hydropick. $ pique, Fr. from hydrops,
The god of marriage.
Latin.]
2. The virginal membrane.
difeafed with extravpfated

Shake/peare.

ti.

1

1.

Dropfical ;

Hymene'ai.. i w. /.

water.

Hymene'an. J

Caniharides heat the watery parts of the body ;
Bacon's Nat. HiJI.
as urine, and bydrcfical water.
The world's whole Op is funk :
earth
hath drunk.
n»e general balm the bydropick

Donne.

fIvJropical fwellings, if they be pure, ore pelfVifeman.
luciJ.

Hydropick wretches by degrees decay.
Growing the more, the more they wafte away
Hy iheir o« n ruins thtry augmented lye,
With ihirft and heat amidft a deluge fry. Blackmore.
One fort of remedy he ufes in dropQcs, the water
of the i)i</»-o/>;V*i.

2.

The axis of the hyperbolical fetftion

will meet alfo with the oppofite fide of
the cone, when produced above the vertex.

Avaunt, you curs!

Dread of water.

Among thofe difmal lymptoms

It.

A

jirbutbnot.

Refembling dropfy.
Some men's hydiopick infatiablenefs learned to
drank.
thirftthc more, by how much more they
King CbarUs.

[iii-ifxi®-.]

riagefong.
And lieav'nly choirs the bymenean lung.

A mar-

Pertaining to marHymene'\l. ^adj.
Hymene'an. J riage.

The fuitors heard, and deem'd the mirthful voice

Pope's OJy£ey.

An
[hymne, Fr. i;/*»®-.]
Hymn.
encomiaftick fong, or fong of adoration
». /.

A figure in rhetorick by which any thing
increafed or diminifhed beyond the
exaft truth ; as, he runs fajier tha?i lightHis pojfcjffioHs are fallen to dufi.
ning.
is

He luasfo gavnt, the cafe of a flagellet txias
Shakefp.
Terms unfquar'd
Which, from the tongueof roaring Typhon dropt.
Would feem hyperboles. Shake. Troilus and CrejJiJa,

a manfion for him.

Taffata phrafes, (ilken terms precife.

to feme fuperior licing.
As 1 earft, in praife of mine own dame,
So now in honour of thy mother dear.

An honourable hymn I eke (hould frame.

but have moved in hyperbolas very eccentrick.
Bentley,

Hy'p erbole. «./. [hyperiole, Fr. vV»f^o>(.]
Milton.

For her the fpoufe prepares the bridal ring i
Pope.
For her white virgins hymeneals fing.

A fignal of her hymeneal choice.

the velocities of the feveral planets been
greater or lefs than they are, or had their diftancct
from the fun, or the quantity of the fun's matter,
and confcqucntly his attractive power been greater
or lefs than they arc now, with the fame >'cloiities,
they would not have revolved in concentrick circles,

Three pil'd hyperboles, fprucc aneClation,
Figures pedantical, thefe Summer flies,

Spenfer.

Our folemn hymns to fuUen dirges change >
Our bridal fiow'rjfetvc for a buried coatfc. Sbak/f.

Have blown me full of maggot oftentation. Shake/p.

They were above the hyperbole!, that fond poetry
beftews upon iu Jdjnired objeits.

Glan-jilie.

Hyperboles,

HYP

HYP

FyierMft, fo daring and fo bold,

Hypochondri'acal.
Hypochondri'ack.

I

DifJaining bounds, are yet by rules confrol'd
;
Above the clouds, but yet within our fight.
They mount with truth, and make a tow'ring flight.

hypochondres,]

The commen people undmHnd raillery, or at leart

Cancellated in the middle with fquares, with
and behind with hypertotick lines.
Grnu''s Alufiewn,
The homy or pellucid coat of the eye rifeth up,
as a hillock, above the convexity of the white of
the eye, and is of an hyperbolical or parabolical
figure.
Ray tn the Creation,

TT

ad'u.

gathered before they are ripe :
then formed into cakes.

Hypo'crisy.

Soft fmiling and demurely looking

But hid the dagger underneath the

.

Hypocrify

hyperboreui, Lat,]

and

jtftViMi.]

A

He heartily prays fome occafion may detain

longer^

the opinion of the Greek and Latin judges, from
the Italians and French, and from the general talle

obliie our

.,

Hype'rmeter. w. / [^.f and ^.Vf,, 1
Any thing greater than the ftandard requires.

When a man rifes beyond fix foot, he is an h,

ftrmeler, and may be admitted into the

Hy'phen. a./
jundion

:

tVifcman

[itfi,.]

Anoteof'con-

[.V»,.]

I

that induces fleep.

HYPOCHO'NDRES. ,./ [*,^..Wr.. Fr.
The two regions Tying on
each fide the cartilage enfiformis.
and
thofe of the ribs, and the tip
of the
bread, which have in one the
liver, and
ID the other the fpleen.
.^o^c.^.,0,.]

i^aw >.

The blood moving too flowly thro'.jOi the
ccliack
and mefenterick arteries, producer virions
complaints
the lower bovvels and hypochomire,
;
from whence
fach perfoM are tailed hypgcjiondtiack.

M

Arbmbmi

[from hypothe.
;

conditionally.

The only part liable to imputation is calling her
a
goddefs ; yet this is propofed with modefty
and doubt

Broome'

.

Hurst' d''^'* ^" ^'°™ the Saxon J5vn)-r»

in Scripture.

Dryden

1 he

_

^,y/,^.

hyjfap of bolomon cannot be well conceived

to be our common hylfop; for
that is not the lealt
of vegetables obfervcd to gro.v uj.on walls;
but ra-

m his retired pleafures, he will be prelumed a
'

Re e

ther fome kind ot capillaries,

.S«77>'

walls and llony places.

which only grow upon
Bro-w,u

Hypocri'tically. ad'u. [fiom hypocriii- Hvste'rical. \^adj. \hvprique, Fr. iftcal.]
With diffimulation; without fin- HysTe'rICK. J
fiK"!.]
1.

Sinieon and Levi fpake not only
falfely, but innay hypocritically, abuling at once
their
profelytes and their religion.
Gcv. ef the Tongue.
liYPoCASTRicK. adj. [hypogajl lijui, Fr.

Seated in the lower '^
part

The fwdling we fuppofed to rife from sn cffufion

of ferum through
•J

all

the hypogaJ!,iik arteries.

'

HYpo

,

,

lyiftman,

Troubled with fits;

difordered in the

regions of the womb

fidioufly,

o^c and y<*5-;,j.]
of the belly.

^

It hath been a great difpute,
whether the hyjfof
cornmonly known is the lame which is mentioned

know

cerity; falfcly.

Any medicine

Hypothe'tically. ad-v.
Ileal.]
Upon fuppofition

the reality.

Now you are confeffing your enormities;
by that hypocritical, down-caft look.

Let others (krew their A^ofc/r/ct face.

as 'vir-tue, tver-li'ving.

Uypao'ricK. n.f.

if;
H^atts

r/ihe fun be fixed, the earth mult move.

'

libertine.

ulcer of Its pntrefaaion.

as,

Whatever virtues may appear in him,
they will'
be elteemed an hypocritical
impofture on the world;

fprinkled it
the

Condition or hypothetical propolitions are
thofe

whole parts are uniled by the conditional particle

a»d bypciheiically.

ftiU pleas'd

cere; appearing differently from
it

and
I

J itomhyptthejis.] Including a fuppofition; conditional.

awoadorgro/e.
Gibf.
Phillips. HHRST.i
ypocri'tical. \adj. [from hypocrite.] Hy'ssop. v. /.
\hyffope, Fr. hvjjhptis, Lat.]
Hypocri'tick.
A verticillate plant.
/ Diflembling; infin-

The growth of fungous or

Whm the hyper/ircofi, wa« great,

feigns.

.

Hypothe'tick.

mifht

unwarn'd drink on.
And through intemp'rancc grow a while
fincere.

tall club.

with precipitate, whereby i more fpeedily
freed

?

I

Who flily fpeak one thing, another think,

H,

crofs,

South.

H Y P O T H E 't C A L 1 «^/. [hypolhetique,Prior
Fr!

i

Beware, ye honed : the third circling
glafi
Sulhces virtue : but may hypocrites.

HypersarCo'sIS. n. f. [i«.<rif»«o-,5, t^io
and <r«f«i^.]
proud flefti.

:

Studies new lines, and other circles

shakfp.

'

Hateful as hell,

lie

He reigns how long till fome ufurper rife
And he too, mighty thoughtful, mighty wife.

us

A

only
taking care to produce them in the
rooft natural

and fo clears off all

that fcemcd to

'''^.w''°'' unintelligible.

imagin'd fovereignty
Lord of his new hypothejh he reigns
:

Ihould be
brought to true piety, and
nineteen be only «,«<..
S-wift
"'l"^- ^' ^'*>'3'«^e would ftiU be great.
•'
I.
tiiflembler.

£^,,

..

w"^

dare fwear he. is no hypocrite, but
prays
-"^

i he making religion
necelTary to intereft
increafe hypocrify; but if
one in twenty

buch hypercritical readers will confider
mvbufinefs was to make a body of refined
fayingi,

manner.

the appearing contrarieties

•

Htpercri'tical. ajj. [from bypercritick.]

We are far ftom impofing thofe nice and byper.

one part coheres with .mother,

Sw

DryJen.

gardeners to.

The

mind carts and turns itfelf reftleHv from one
thing to another, till at length
it brings all the ends
o: J long and various
/jy/>u/i<yij together ; fees how

*" With

A wife man haleth not the law; but he that is
an
hypocrite therein, is as a Ihip
in , ftorm.
Eccltf.
xxxiii.
I
.
3.
TT
,
hypocrite, you feek to cheat
in vain
Itoutlilence argues, you a(k time
to reign. Dryden.

Thok iyfercriticii in Englilh poetry differ from

nitUal punftilios, which fome aftrologers

I

from his heart.

captious beyond ufe or reafon.

Critical beyond neceiffity or ufe.

upon fome principle not proved.

A diflembler in morality or religion.

I.

11

FrfL,:

[h,p.-,hje,

A fuppofition; a fvftem formed

«'«•<?.]

wears the livery of religion, and
fcandal: nay, continued difguifes

BTOXjUTUJ.J

\hypercritique, Fr.
critick exaft or

of all ages.

Dryden

S-wlft

Fr.

of the two other

ndes.

HYPO'THESIS. n. /.

HY'POCRITE. n.f. [hypccriu, French;

Northern.

Hypercri'tick. n.f.
irsf

\hyperboreen,

The fijuare of the hypoteniife in 3 right-angled
triangle, is equal to the fquarei

are toogreat a conllraint
:
men would leave off their
vices, rather than undergo
the toil of praftifine them
in private.

and

Having the form, or nearly the
n. f.

it

IS cautiAs of giving

form of the hyperbola.

Hyperbo'reaj*.

tenfe.

down
gown.

""'''

'

angle of a right-angled triangle
^ ; the fub-

French;

much more eligible than open infi-

,3

delity and vice:

Braone't Note tun the Odyjfey.

forma.']

/^///

[hjpocrifte,

they have a little
R 1

Perfonal; diftiniflly perfonal.

Hypotenu'se. n.f. [hypote«tt/e, Yv.hxo.
T.»i((r«.] The line
that fubtends the right

glutinous liquor,
the juice is expreffed,

Next rtood hypocrify with holy leer.

Scylla IS feated upon a narrow mountain, which
thnjfc into the fea a ftcep high rock, and hyper.
iUkally defcribed by Homer as inacceffible.

[hyperbola

till

examined it.

Diffimulation with regard to
the moral or religious charafter.

In form of an hyperbola.
2^ With exaggeration or extenuation.
Yet may all4>cC>lvcd,.if we take \t byperMically.
Brovm.

Conftitutive; conftituent as diflina in.

z-

•w«f«r,«.]

i.

ad-v.

n.f.

Fr.

Let ourCarneades, warn men not
to fubfcrlbe to
the grand doarine of the chymift^,
touching their
three bypoftatical principles,

broken.

Boyle.

[hypojiatipte,

gredients.

The rtem of the plant is thick and flcftiy :
and much thicker at the top than
towards the bottom.
The fruits contain a tough

liciil.]

Hypesbo'liporm.

I.

l}»riKm( ; hypoap, Fr.l
Hypoci^ IS an infpilTated juice conHderably
hard
and heavy, of a fine (hining black
colour, when

[fiom fyjieria-

adj.

from hfpojfajis.]

Bacon's Natural Hljlory

,

Hypocist. »./.

and probably byperholical, and

therefore not to be taken in a ftriift fenfe.

Hyposta'tical.

Coldfweats are many times mortal, and
always
as in great fears, and
hypochondriacal
pallions, being a relaxation or forfaking
of the fpiritt.

Exaggerating or ex-

Hyperbo'licallv.

m

nature

lulpedted;

tenuating beyond faft.
It is parabolical,

in the one eternal, indivilible, divine-naturc,
and the eternity of the Son's
generation, and his co-eternity
and confuliftantialiry
witn the Father, are affertions
equivalent to thofe
comprifed
the .indent fimple article.
Hammond.

S

of melancholy.

triangles before,

[From hyperbole.']

to the feveral hypojiafcs

D^'^y of Piety.
, o
,
,
2. Producing melancholy ; having the

Belonging to the hyperbola ; having the
nature of an hyperbola.

Diftinft fubftance.

A term ufed in the doc
trme of the Holy Trinity.
The oneneCs of our Lord Jefus Chrift, referring

Socrates laid down hi. life in
atteftation of that
molt fundamental truth, the belief
of one God ; and
yet he's not recorded either
as fool or hypochcn^

Hyperbo'lical. lai//. [hyperloUque, Fr.
Hyperbo'lick. J fromtj/ieriola.Lat.]

2.

i.

^

tion.

rhetorick, and will not take ijifrfo/a in loo literal
a fcnfe.
S%i>if/.

HYPO'STA3IS.«/r;5j/,/^/,,Fr.;T.V«ir.j.-'
2. Perfonality

Melancholy; difordG»«d in the imagina-

r.

1.

H YS

aJJ, hypoeondriaque, Fr. from

In i>y7fr;V;« women the rarity of fjmptoms
c;i ilrikc an aftoiiilhment into rpctlaiors.

doth

Har%.cy.

Many byjliricahmmtn are fenlible of wind pafljiig
from the w_omb.
2.

yioyer ok the Humour.

Proceeding from difordcrs in the womb.
farentof vajjours, and of female wit.

Who gave th' hyferick or poetic tit.

Papr.
This tei rihlc I'ccne made too violent an imprcliion
upon a woman in her condition, and threw her into

E u M. n.
A name a llrong hyftfieh tit.
f. i-T. and yu. ]
Arbutlmot and Pope.
which the ancient architcfls gave to all
Hvste'kICKS.. «. /. [is-i/..x..5.j Kits of
the parts of a building that
were under
women, fuppofed to proceed from difground, as cellars and vaults.
iiunis.
orders in ilie womb,

'I.

.

.

,

I.

JAB

j

AC

{iiom jabher.y

J A C
One who

Is in Englifli confidered both as a
vowel and confonant; though, fince
• the vowel and confenant differ in
their form as well as found, they may be
more properly accounted two letters.
/ vowel nas a long found, as fine,
thine, which is uftially marked with an

Ja'bberer.

finii and a (hort found, z& fin, thin.
Prefixed to e it makes a dipthong of the
fame found with the foft /, or double f,

Ja'cinth.w. f, [iot hyacinth, Jerufalemiot

re: thus _/&/</, yield, are fpoken as feeld,
jeeld; tRCcept friend, which is fpoken
frend. Subjoined to a or ^ it makes them
long, 2S fail, neigh; and to a makes a

2.

I

.*

mingled found, which approaches more
.nearly to the true notion of a dipthong,

or found compofed of the founds of two
vowels, than any other combination of
vowels in the Englilh language, as oil,
The found of / before another /,
.coin.
and at the end of a word is always ex.preffedbyj».

J

jilt, jolt, jufi.

aU Pronoun perjonal. \}k, Gothick ; ic, Saxon;

Dutch.
/, gen. me; plural 'we; gen. us.
pe,
me,
IC
uf.
a. The pronoun of the firft perfon, myfelF.
ich,

Hbaitff.

/donot like thcfefeveral •ouncils, /.

There is none greater in this houfe than /.
Gen. xxxix. 9.

Be of good cheer, it is /; be t»t afraid.
Afa/. xiv. 27.

What (hall / do to be for ever known.
And make thy age to come my own
i (hall like beads to common piople dye,
4Jnlefs you write my elegy.

Out cant the Babylonian labourers
At all their dialefts oi jabberers.
Ja'cent. adj. [jacens, Lat.]
length.

Cmuky.
"What do our fouls, I wonder^ do ?
Thus, having pafs'd the night in fruitlefs pain,
<f to my longing Iricnds return again. Drydtn' i /En.
Of night impatient w< demand the day,
I'he day arrives, and for the night vit pray.
Blackmore.

Me is in the following paffage written
for /.
There is but one man whom (he can have, and that
Clarijfa.
is me.
J is mot« than once in Shaleffeare written

Than thedeathdarlingeyeofcwkatrice.

at

The fame with hyacinth.
A gem of a deep reddifli yellow ap-

1

proaching to a flame colour, or the deepeft
Woodiuard.
amber.
JACK. ». /. [Probably by miftake from
Jaques, which in French is James.'\
Ufed as a
I. The diminutive of John.
general term of contempt for fancy or

You will perceive that a Jack gardant cannot
OfEce me from my fon Coriolanus.
1 have in my mind

Shakeffeare.

A thoufand raw tricks ot thefe hn^mzjacis.
Shakeff. Merch. of Venice.
Every Jack (lave has his belly-full of fighting,
and I mult go up and down like a cook that nobody
Sliakeffeare.
can match.

The name of inftruments which fupply the place
of a bay, as an inllrument to pull off boots.
Fost-boys, who had frequently the common name
oi jack given them, were kept to turn the fpit, or
to pull off their mafters boots ; but when inlhuments
were invented for both thofe fervices, they were
H'atts's Logick.
both called yaritj.

An engine which turns the fpit.

3.

(he took 'em and read 'em in my prefence,
/, fir
And now and then an ample tear trill'd down. SiaA.
To JA"BBhR. 'v. n. {gabberen, Dutch.]
J

;

to prate without thinking

to chatter.
Wefcorn, for want «f talk, tojaUer
Stviji.

The male of animals.

9.

Kjack afs, for a ftallion, was bought for three
thouland two hundred and twenty-hine pounds thre«
Aiiulhnot on Coins,
(hillings and four pence.
10.

A fupport to faw wood on. Ainfijuorth^

1

The colours or enfign of a (hip. Ainf<w.

1

A

cunning fellow who can turn to anjr
12.
thing, in the following phrafe.
"Jack of all trades, (how and found ;
Aninvcrfe burfe, an exchange underground.
Clta'vetar.d.

Jack Boats, n. f. \irom jack,

that the
jack frame be forged and filed fquare ; that the
on the
fixed
ftrongly
wheels be perpendicularly and

The excellencies of a good jack are,

fquarcs of the fpindles ; that the teeth be evesly cut,
and well fmoothed ; and that the teeth of the wormwheel fall evenly into the groove of the worm.

the legs.

A man on horfeback, in his breeches and jack
.

Jack by the hedge, n, f. Eryfimum.
Jack by ttie hedge is an herb that grows wild undet
hedges, is eaten as other fallads are, and much ufed
Mortimer.
in broth.

Jack

Pudding. » f.

A zani

{jack and fuddiitg.'\

a merry Andrew.
Every jack pudding will be ridiculing palpable
weakncfies which they ought to cover. VEJIrange.
;

A

buffoon is called by every nation by the name of
the di(h they like bcft : in FrenchyMB foliage, and
Guardian.
in Englith jack f adding.

Jact pudding, in his party-colour'd jacket,
Cray.

Toffes the glove, and jokes at ev'ry packet.

Jack 'with a Lantern.

An ignis fatitus.

JaCal'ent. n. f. \Jack in Lent, a poor
ftarved fellow.]

A fimple iheepilh fellow.

Vou XwXtijackalcnt, have you been true to us ?

— Ay,

1 '11

Jacka'l.

be fworn.

n.

J',

&hak. Merry tVivesoflVindf.

[chacal,

animal fuppofed to

Mcxon.

Fr.]

ftart

A fmall

prey for th»

lion.

The Belgians tack upon our rear.
And raking chafe-guns through our (lerns they fend:

f^'ilkins.

A cookmaid, by the fall of zjack weight upon her
IVifemant Surgery
head, was beaten down.
Some ftrain in rhyme j the mufes on their racks
Scream, like the winding of ten thoufand jacks.

up in a commode and a night-rail.

SpcBatw,

The ordinary jackt, ufed for roafting of meat,
commonly confirt but of three wheels.

a coat of

Boots which ferve as armour to

mail.]

boots, drelTed

paltry fellows.

Clofe by their tirelhips,

Kft-c jackaJs appear.

Who on their lions for the prey attend.
The mighty lion, before whom Hood

Dryden,
the

little

jackal, the faithful (py of the king of bcalh.

Arbuiimot and Pcpe,

A young pike.

4.

No fi(h will tlnive in a pond where roach or
gudgeons are, exc^ftjaeks.

5.

\Jacque,YT.'\

Mortimer's Hujhandry.

Acoatofmail.

The refidue were on foot, well furniflied vi'nhjack
and (kull, pike, dagger, bucklers made of board, and
broad, thin, and of an excellent
Hayviard,

dicing fwoids,
temper.

6. A cup of waxed leather.

Dead wine, that flinks of theborrachio, fup

Sbaie/f.

Did your letters pierce ihe queen ?

Ofjiarties.

Lying

Hierufalem.

2,

for ay, or yei.
Hath Romeo (lain himfelf ? Say thou but /,
And thai bare vowel, /, iTi.ill poilon more

In a virginal, as foon as ever ^tjaek (alleth, and
Bacon.
toucheth the ftting, the found ceafcth.

Hudibrai.

pierce than in thtjacenl pofture. IVolton's ArchiteS.

Cowley.
Cmvley.

When chance of bufineft parts us two,

To talk idly

a virginal.

So laid, they are more apt in fwagging dowm to

;

Hence, and make room for mc.

A part of the mufical inilniment called

8.

talks inarticulately or unintelligibly.

Which 1 will pradlife.

confonant has invariably the fame
found with that of^ \n giant, iijade, jet,

3.

h. f.

From a foul
7.

_/"rff <^,

or greafy maple cup.

Drydett.

Ja'cknapes. ». f. [jack and aj>e.^
1.

Monkey; an ape.

2,

A coxcomb

an impertinent.
Which is he ?

Shakeffeare,
Thit jackanapes with fcarfs.
People wonder'd how fuch a young upltart jacka^,

napes Ihould grow fo pert and faucy, and take fa

much upon him.

one Ihould fay, that a bowl equally
poifcd, and thrown upon a plain bowling-green, will
tun neceiVarily in a dircd^ motion; but if it be made
with a byafs, that may decline it a little from a
ftraighl line, it may acquire a liberty ef will, and fo
.
Sentky,
rualfoataoeoufly loll^cyar^,
'Tis as

Arb.

Jackda'w. n. f. [jack anda'aov.] A cock
daw a bird taught to imitate the human
,-

voice.

A fmall bowl thiown out for a mark to
the bowlers.

;

To impofc on a child to get by heart a long
of phrafes, without any ideas, is a practice
a jacidazu than for any thing that wears
fVattt,
the Ihape ol man.

fcroll

fitter for

if

J.l'cKET. n. f. [jacquet, Fr.]
I .

A

ftiort coat ; a clofe waiftcoat.
Hxii. Tale.
la a blue jaciti, wiUt a crofi of red,

Mi

D

J A

JAN

J A I

AnJ hens, and dogs, and hogs are feeding by
And here a tailor's Jariei hangs to dry.
Pope.
2. To beat ones Jacket, is to beat the

it is a dull thing to tire and jade

No favour for the ftallion we retain,
And no refpeift for the degen'rate drain.

She fell upon theyW^tfV the parfon, who ftood
L'Efirange.

Jacob'/ Ladder, it. f. Polemonium j
fame with Greek valerian.

ready money, which, poor man, he lived to repent
'" ^j"'}Clarendon.
He figh'd and turn'd his eyes, bccaufe he knew
'Twas but a larger>i//he had in view.
Dryden.

If fleet dragon's progeny at lad
Proves jadeii, and in frequent matches caft

man.
gaping at her.

any thing too far.
Bacon.

OneyarVdid all their criminals icllrain,

Which noiv the walls of Rome can fcarce contain.

Dryden.

The mind once jaded, by an attempt above its

the

Dryden.

power, is very hardly brought to exert its force again.

Ja I ebird. n. f. {Jail and bird.] One who

Loclce,

Ja'cob'/ Siaff. n. f.

yarff<i with ftudy or thinking

and unfit to aflift the fpirit in meditation.

A crofs ftaff; a kind of aftrolabe.
n. /.
A pigeon with a high

tuft.

jiinfw.
[jaSito, Lat.]

motion;

1. Toffing;

reftleflhefs ;

from cordials.

A

Jacula'tion.

n. f.

falfe

Farewell nobility.

Milton.

JADE. n. f. [The etymology of this word
is doubtful :

Skinner derives it from goad,

a goad or fpur.]
horfe of no fpirit; ahiredhorfc; a
1.
worthlefs nag.

A

Alas, what wightsare thefe that load my heart

am as dull a) Winter-ftarved Iheep,
Tir'd as 3 jade in o»erloadcn cart.
Sidnty,
When they Ihould endure the bloody fpur.
They fall their cieft, and, like deceitful yai/fr,
Sink, in the trial.
Shaktfp. Juliut Cafar.
The horfemen fit like fixed candlcrticks.
I

With torchftaves in their hand j and their foox jades
Lob down their heads, dropping the head and hips.
Shakefpeare,

So have I feen with armed heel,

ThelefjthefuUenyai/j has ftirr'd.

Hudihras.

The plain nag came upon the trial to j)rove thofe
to \xjadet that made fport with him.
L'EJlrartge.
Falfe ftcps but help them to renew their race.

As, after Humbling,

yW« wiU mend their pace.

A forry woman.

Pope.

A word of contempt

noting fometimes age, but generally vice.
Shall thefe, ihefe old j.ides,

p.ill the flower

Of youth, that you have, pafs you.

Chapman.

But (he, thecunning'llydjf alive,
the ready way to thrive.

Siepney.

Get in, hulTy now wi I perfonate this young
jade, and diftover the intrigue.
Southern.
In di'mon'j5,r pearl, and rich brocades,
She (hines the tirll of batter'dyWcr,

And Butters in her pride.

Sivifi.

A young woman: in irony and flight
contempt.

You fee now and then fome handfome youn^ jades
among them: (he fluts have very often white teeth

,

and black eye..

Jade. ff. y.

Adji/on.

A fpecics of ftone.

Thi jade is a fpecics of the jafp<:r, and of extreme hirdncfs. Its colour is compofcd of a pale
blueilhgrey.oralh-colour, and a pale-green, not uniform.
It appears dull and coarfc on ilu furlace,
hut
it lakes a very elegant polilli.
It h ufed by the
Turks for handles ol fabres.
/////..
7<? Jade. -v. a.
l.

[from the noun.]

To tire; toha.-afi; todifpirit; to weary:
applied originally to ho'rfcj.
With his banners, and his well-paid rjnks.

The nc'cr-ycl-bealen horfe of i'ariliia
We've jaded out o' ih' field.

Shak. Ant. andCleo.
good in difcourle 10 vary and intermingle
fpeech^of the prefcK occiiiioii with aR'jnuals
for
;
It

is

Vot, I.

Sbakefp.

An air more welcome than the damp beneath. Dryd.
Ja'kes. n. /. [Of uncertain etymology.]

A

fioufe of office.

not laft : they are promifing in the beginning, but
they fail and jade and tire in the profecution. Seittb.

I

]a'dish. adj. \{rom Jade.]
1 . Vitious ; bad, as an horfe.

When once the people get rhejadijb trick
Of throwing off their king, no ruler's fafc. Southern.
2. Unchafte; incontinent.
'Tis to no boot to be jealous of a woman ;
if the

Some have filhed the very jakes for papers left there
by men of wit.

Latin.]
Jalap is a firm and folid root, of a wrinkled fur^.

for

and generally cut into (lices, heavy and hard
to break ; of a fuintifh fmell, and of an acrid
and
face,

all the
locks and fpies in nature can keep her honeft.
L' EJlrange.

naufeous lafte. It had its n2,n\t jalapiicm, orjalapa,
from Xalapa, a town in New Spain, in the neighbourhood of which it was difcovercd though it is
now principally brought from the M,idciras. It is
an excellent purgative where ferous humours are to
be evacuated.
Hill's Mat. Med.

\gaganxi, flits or holes,

Welfh.] To cut into indentures; to cut
into teeth like thofe of a faw.
Some leaves arc round, fome long, fome fquare,
and m.\Tty jagged on the fides.
Bacon's Nat. Hiji.

:

Jam. n.f.
water.

Bacon,

The banks of that fea mu(V \x jagged and torn by
the impetuous alTaults, or the filent underminings of
waves; violent rains muft wa(h down earth from the
tops of mountains.
Bent.
An alJer-tree is one among the lefler trees, whofe
yoi;ngcr branches are foft, and whofe leaves ittjag.
g'JkVatis.

[from the verb.]
rance or denticulation.

Jagg.

n. f.

A protube-

J'VMB. ». /. {Jambe, French, a %.] Any
fupporter on either fide, as the polts of a
door.

No timber is to be laid within twelve inches of the
forefide oi the chimneyy.iwij-.

Iambick.

The figure of the leaves is divided into fo many

Add.

Amid' ihofe angles, infinitely Itrain'd,

Thcv j.,yful leave <h<i\T jaggy falts behind.

Ja'ggidness.

n. /.

[itom jaj^ei ]

[iamiijue,

but touch thy Irilh pen, and dies:

Thy genius talis thee not to purchafe fame
In keen iamhicks, but mild anagram.

TiJ a'ncle. I'. ».

1 he

ftateof being denticulated; unevcnnefs.
Fiill L'raw ruddy your leaves,' m.iking
them plain,
before you give them their veins arjaggednefs.
Peacbam o>i Oiatvirg.
JAIL. V. f. {geol, Fr.] A gaol; a prifon .T place where criminals are confined.
iiee Gaol.
It is written cither way;
but commonly by latter writers y/?//.
;

Away with the dotarJ, to the/'a/Vwiih him.
Shakefpeare.

A dependant upon him paid fix thoufanj pounds

Dryden.

[jangler,

French. Skin~
Iter.] To altercate; to quarrel ; to bicker
in words.
Now a low word..
Good wits will hitji.ngling but, gentles agree.
This civil war of wits we.emuch better us'd
;

On Nav.!rre and his boolv-men,
So far am glad
did lb fort.
And this ihft'ujjrigling

Shakefpeare.

it

I

Thomf.

Moxon.
Fr. iamhicus,

In thy tcloniofis heart though venom lies.
It docs

foes
.

j'.

for fatire.

]\'Gr,\.adj. [S^om Jagg.] Uneven; den-

Hi« tecih liood/ij^f vin three dreadful rows.

n.

Lat.] Vcrfcs coinpofcd of iambick feet,
or a fhort and Ions;; fyllable alternately:
ufed originally in fatire, therefore taken

jaggs or clcallops, and curioufly indented round the
edges.
Ray.
Take off all the ftaring (Iraws, twigs, and jaggs
in the hive, and make them as fmootli as polfible.
Mortimer's Hajbandry.
ticulated.
His tow'ring creftwas glorious to behold
;
His IhiulJcrs and his fides were Ical'd witli gold
;
Three tongues he brandilh'd when he charg'd his

know not whence derived,

[I

A confervc of fruits boiled with fugarandj

oak leaves; but they never have any

froall plain purls.

Stui/i.

Ja'lap. n.f. {Jalap, French; Jalapium, low-

humour takes her to be jadijh, not

To J.4GG. T. a.

will tread this inbol'ed villain into mortar, and

daub the walls oi jakes with him.
Suikefp.
Their fordid avarice rakes
In excrements, and hires the very jakes. Dryden.

Thai hors'd us on their backs, to (how us
Kjadijh trick at la(t, ar>d f^ow us.
Hudihras.

inecjualiiy of

While ftill the more he kick'd and fpurr'd,

3.

for every reafon excites to this.

:

Dryden.

Paiamon, the pris'ner knight,
RelUefs for woe, arofc before the light;
And, with his y.jrVtr'i leave, defir'd to breathe

to let imagination jade

The jagging of pinks and gilliflowers is like the

A wight bellride a commonweal.

'tii

To ride; to rule with tyranny.
do not now fool myfclf,

;

With hoarfe commands his breathing fubjefts call.

And boaft and blulter in his empty hall.

Sbakefp.

Many oflfer at the effects of fricnddiip, but they do

So hills amid' the air encounter'd hills,
Hurl'd to and fro with jaculatien dire.

Sajrs,

The honourable blood

me

weapons.

2.

There let him reign, theya//fr of the wind

Muft not be Ihed by fuch a jaded groom.
4.

Shakefpeare.

His pow'r to hollow caverns is confined

To employ in vile offices.

3.

I

\jaculath, jacuhr,

This is i jailer, to bring forth

Some monftroui malefaftor.

Shakefpearc's Henry VIII.

The aft of throwing miffive To ] ADt. m. n. To lofe fpirit; to fink.

Latin.]

kept from it, as well becaufc (he lliunned it, feeing
and difdaining his mind, as bccaufe of her jealou*
jailers.
Sidney.

If we live thus tamely,

Har'vey,

term in the canon law for a
pretenfion to marriage.

2.

To

To be thusyWfi^by a piece of fcarlet,

heaving.

If the patient be furprifed vUh jaciitalion, or
great oppreffion about the ibmach, expcdl no relief

fVatts.

overbear; to crufh; to degrade; to
harafs, as a horfe that is ridden too hard.

.

Ja'cobine.

Jactita'tion. ». /.

A

J A 'i L E R . «. y; [from Jail. ]
gaoler ; the
keeper of a prifon.
Seeking many means to fpeak with her, and ever

J

accounts animal nature may be languid or cloudy,

2. StaiF concealing a dagger.
^.

has been in a jail.

There are fcafons when the brain is overtired or
and upon fome other

A pilgrim's ftaff.

1 .

I

eftccm a \\^ort,

Shakefp.

There is no crrour which liath tiot fome appearance
of prob.ibility rcfembliiig truth, which wlien men,

who rtudy to be lingular, find out, llraining reafon,
they then publiilj to the world matter of contention
and jangling.
Raleigh.

Jangle, -v. a. To make to found un-

y'o

tuncably.

Now fee that noble and that fovcreign reafon.
Like fweet bells y.i,';^/ J out of tunc and harfh.
Shakefpearc's Hamlet.
'Ere Gothick forms weri! known in Greece,
And in our verfe 'ere monkilh rhinics

Had jangled their fantaftick chimes.
Prior,
6
Ja'ngler,

H

•

JAP

J

Ja'scler. h. f. [from the verU. J

A wran-

The 6ood, coiiftrain'd within a fcanty fpJCt,

gling, chattering, noify fellow.

JaSiizary. »./. fATurkiOi word.]
of the guards of the Turkiih

'

One

Jig.

To quarrel; to difpute.
VVhen thofe renowned noble peers of Greece,
Through flubborn pride, among themfelvcs did jar.

His grand vizir, prefumiii; to inveft

The chief imperial city of ihe Weft,
Wiih the firft charge compeli'd in hade to rift i
The ftandards loft, mi jjitixarirs flaiii,
H'ailfRender the hopes Iw ga« his nufter vain.

Ja'nnock. n. /. [probably a corruption of

A northern word.
Lannock.] Oat-bread.
Ja'nty. aJj. [corrupted from ^f*f/A Fr.]
Showy; fluttering.
This fort of woman is a janly flattera :

DryJen'i Mn.

Roars horrible.
4..

(he hangs

on her cloaths, plays her head, and varies her pofture.
SpfClaior.

The
] a' n VARY. It. /.[Januarim, Latin.]
firft month of the year, from JaHus, to
whom it was among the Romans confecrated.
yaiuary is clad in white, the colour of the earth
This month had
at this time, blowing his nails.
•h« name from Janus, painted with two faces, figni-

Forgetful of the famous golden fleece,
Then Orpheus with his harp their llrife did bar.

Spenfer.

They muft be fometimes ignorant of the means
conducing to thofe ends, in which alone they can
Dryden.
jar and oppofe each other.

Jar. n. /. [from the verb.]
1. A kind of rattling vibration of found.
In r, the tongue is held ftifBy at its whole length,
by the force of the mufdcs ; fo as when the impulfe
of breath ftrikes upon the end of the tongue, where
it finds paflage, it (hakes and agitates the whole
tongue, whereby the found is afFedted with a tremHolder's Elemenis ofSpmh.
bling jar.

of interefb or opinions; difcord;

2. Claih

And yet his peace is but continual_/ar
O mifcrablc men, that to him fubjeA are
:

Peac'iim.

Nath'lefs, my brother, fince we palTcd are
Unto this point, we will appeafe out jar. Hubheri.

ftantive,

Force would be right ; or rather, right and wrong,
Between wliofe endlefsyar juftice prendes.
Would lofe their names, and fo would juftice too.

Sbakefp.

and therefore may be ccnfidered

as an adjeftive.
The poor girl had broken a large japan ghfs, of

3.

Siui/l.

great value, with a llroke of her brulh.

and raifed figures.

4^

For not the delk with filvcr nails,

Nor bureau of expence,
Nor Itandifh well 7J/ij«»'</, avails
3.

The wriiing of good feiife.
To black and glofs fhoes.
The god of fire

Sivift

A low phrafc.

Among thefc gen'rous prefents joins his part,
Cay.
And aids with foot the new j^jpannlmg art.
Ja P a'n n er. «. /. [from japan.]
1, One (killed in japan work.
Ihoeblacker.
So called becaufe he
2.
makes the (hoes (hine.
The poor have the fame itch

A

They change their weekly barber, weekly news,
Pnfer a new jafatiner to their Ihocs. Papers Horace.

to Jar. "v. n. [from eonp>i, anger, Saxon;
or gutrre, war, French ; or garren, old
Teutonick, to clamour.]
j^ To ftrikc together with a kind of (hort
rattle.

The rings of iron, that on the doors were hung.
Sent out ijarrirtg found, and harflily rung. Drydftt.
My knees tremble with the janing blow. Gay.

To ftrike or found untuneably and irre-

t.

gularly.
O, you kind goils
Cure this great breach in his abufed nature ;
Th* untun'd and jarring fcnfcs, O, wind up.
St.ikrfp. Kiig Lear.
Of this child-changed father
I

!

I

a whit,

when it/<jr» fo.

Sh.ikeffeare.

A ftring may jar in the bcft matter's hand,
And the moll Ikilful archer mifs his aim. Rofcamm.
He keeps his tempcr'd mind, I'erenc and pure.
And every pallion aptly harmoniz'd
Thomfon'i Summer.
Amid' ijarrtng world.
J,

To cla(h

\Giarro, Italian.] An earthen ve(rel.
About the upper part of the jar Uiere appeared a
Bsyle.
good number of bubbles.
He mead for cooling drink prepares.
Drydtn.
Of virgin honey in theyarj.
Warriors welter on the ground,
Garlb.
Whilft empty y^rj the dire defeat refound,

JA'RDES.

n. /. [French.] Hard callous
tumours in horfes, a little below the bending of the ham on the outfide. This
diftemper in time will make the horfe

and grow fo painful as to caufe
away, and become liyhtbellied.
It is moft common to managed

halt,

him

to pine

that have been kept too

horfes,

much

upon their haunches.
Farrier's Did.
Ja'rgon. n. f. ^jargon, Yt. gericonfa, Spani(h.]

Unintelligible talk; gabble; gib-

berilh.
Nothing is clearer than mathematical demonftraone, who is altogether ignorant in
mathematicks, hear it, and be will hold it to be
plain fuftian or jargon.
Bramhali.
tion,

yet

to interfere- to aft in opposition; to be inconfiftent.
;

At laft, though long, our jarr'mg notes agree.
Hbakffpeari,

For orders and degrees
Jar not with liberty, but well confift,
Venalus Concluded his report
.*

A jurr/flj; murmur AUM the favtioui court

MiU$n.

andfpotted with red, yellow and white. kVoodivard.
The moft valuable pillars about Rome are four columns of or \tat2\jafper in St. Paulina's chapel, and

one of tranfparent oriental ya/Jjfr in the Vatican liAdAifon on Ilaly^
brary.
Iatrole'ptick. adj. \iatroleptique, French;
iaT;<«

and i/t'if w.] That which cures by

anointing.

Tobemire; to
over with dirt through unneceflTary
This word is
traverfing and travelling.
ftill retained in Scotland and the northera

ToJa'vel, or jdble.'v. a.
foil

counties.

From this laft toil again what knowledge fiows ?
Juft as much, perhaps, as (hows

That all his prcdecelibr's rules
Were empty cant, all jargon of the fchools.

Prior.

During the ufurpation an infufion of enthufialtick
jargon prevailed in every writing.
Swift.

Ja'rgoneli-e. ». /. A fpecies of pear. See
J a'sh AWK. »./. [probably ias or eyas hawk.]

A young hawk.

Ja'smIKE.

n. /.

tion, put on his beft apparel, which the lieutenant
compelled him to put off again, faying. That he who

(hould have them was but a jaiiel. What, fays fir
Thomas, (hall I account him a javel, who (hall
More.
this day do me fo great a benefit ?

Ja'velin. n. f. [yVjtv/zW, French.] A fpear
or half pike, which anciently was ufed
It had an iron
either by foot or horfe.
head pointed.
Others, from the wall, JefeDd

With dart anijav'lin. Hones and fulph'rous fire;

On each hand flaughter and gigantick deeds.

Jinjiuorlh.

.'

JA'UNDICE, «./. {jaum£e,jaunr,yc\\ovf,

A diftemper from obftruftions

French.]

of the glands of the liver, which prevents
the gall being duly feparated by them
from the blood ; and fometimes, efpecially in hard drinkers, they are fo indurated as never after to be opened, and
ftraiten the motion of the blood fo much
through that vifcus, as to make it divert
with a force great enough into the gaftrick
arteries, which go off from the hepatick,
to break through them, and drain into
the ftomach ; fo that vomiting of blood,
in this diftemper,

a fatal fymptom.
l^incy.

Why (hould a man, whofe blood is warm within,
Sleep when he wakes, and creep into the jaundiee
Sbakefp. Aferckanr ofyenice.
By being peevilh ?
1'hofe were hy thoughts, and thou could'ft judge
aright,
'Till int'reft made tjaundlcem thyfight.

From jafminr grove to grove may 'ft wander. Thomf.

A fpecies

of lilac.
Ja'sper. ». /. \jafpe, French; iafpis, Lat.]
A hard ftone of a bright beautiful green
colour, fometimes clouded with white.

Dryden/t-

The eyes of a man in the jaundice make yellow
obfcrvations on every thing ( and the foul, tiniltured
with any pa(3ion, .diffufes a falfe colour over the appearances of things.

Ja'undiced.

adj.

If'atts.

[from jaundice.']

In*

fefted with the jaundice.
All feems infeited, that th' infefted fpy.

As all looks yellow to ihejaundic'd eye.

Thou, like the harmlefs bee, may'ft freely range;

Ja'smine Perjian. n, /. A plant.

is

Sit like his giandfire cut in alabaftcr?

y^/»/M. ] A creep-

ing (hrub with a fragrant flower.

Milt.

She (hakes her m'jn\tjav'lin: and, behind.
Her Lycian (juiver dances in the wind.
Dryden.
Flies the jafelin fwifter to its mark,
Launch'd from the vigour of a Roman arm AJdif.,

[gel/emittum; jafmin, Fr.]

It is often pronounced

A

When as time, flying with wings fwift.
Expired had the term that thofe tviojave/t
Should tender up a reckoning of their travels. Hvii,
Sir Thomas More, preparing himfelf for execu-

let

Pear.

perceive you delight not in mufick.

— Not

A ftate in which a door unfaftened may
ftrike the poft ; half opened.
The chaffering with dilTenters, and dodging about
this or t'other ceremony, is but like opening a few
wickets, and leaving them ayor, by wliich no more
than one can get in at a time.
5'u»iJ't,

To Jap a'n. w. a. [from the noun.]
1, To varnifh, and embellilh with gold

Hill.

The bafis o( jafper it ufually of a grcenilh hue,

J a'vel. n. f.

JAPA'N. n. f. [from Japan \nJ/a, where

figured work was originally done.] Work
varni(hed and raifcd in gold and colours.
It is commonly ufed with another fub-

found in maflTes of various fiies and fliapes.
It is capable of a very elegant polilh, and
is found in many parts of the Eaft Indies,
and in £g)'pt, Africa, Tartary, andChina.

[perhaps from the verb.]
wandering or dirty fellow.

debate.
He maketh war, he maketh peace againi

Fairy Slueen.

fying Proridencc.

U

J A

A S

As when a torrent rolls with rapid riee.

7'o

Jaunt, -u. n.

Poptt

French.]
'i"o
wander here and there; to buftle about.
It is now always ufed ia contempt or
[janter,

levity.
I

was not made a horfe,

Aud yet I bear a burthen like an afs ;
S^. i-gall'tl ftsitir'd by jaunting Bolingbroke.

Siakrffeare's Rich. II,

I

C E

ICY

Jaitnt. «./•

Cfrorn the verb.] Ramble;
flight; excurfion.
It is commonly ufed
ludicroufly, but folemnly by Milton.
Our Saviour meek, »nd with untroubled mind,
After bis iwj jaunt, though hurry'd fore,
Hungry and cold, betook him to his reft.
Milton.
He fends me out on many ayaxOT/,

OM houfes in the night to haunt.

They parted, and away polls the cavalier in queft

Ichne'umon,

The generation of the ichneumonfly is in the bodies
of caterpillars, and other nymphs of
infefls.

geniil,

French.

Denham'i Pbyfico.Tbeol.

.

iCHNo'cRAPHT. »./.
T he ground-plot.

that jauntlncft of air I was once mafter of.

putrify, acquiring titft a faline
tafte,
ol puirefaftion, and then it will

jcrwiont, or cheekbont, then /aw.]
The bone of the mouth in which the

y.«f teeth as knives, to devour the poor. Prav.txj..
TheyJTO bones, hearts, and galls of pikes are very
Biedicinable.
ffal.o,: Anglrr.
Pifo, who probably fpeaks Ariftotle's
meaning, faid
that the crocodile doth not only move hij upper ««.
but that his nether y«ti/ is immoveable.
Crru.
More formidable hydra ftands within,
WhofeyatM with iron teeth feverely grin. Drydtn.

i

My bended hook Ihall pierce their ti\mi ja-iut.
.

Sbakrfptare.

,
A Imcary toam
works o'er my grinding javii.
.

,

.

T

•-

\

r-

1^

A

,

,

Jazel.

ICHTHYo'pHAGY. n. /.
I'ciCLE.

[iTomice.]

n. /.

Udiftilled vinegar or aqua-fortis be poured
into
the powder of loadllone, the fubfiding powder,

fome magnetital virtue ; but if the menftruum be evaporated to a confiftence, and afterwards
doth (hoot iMoiciclei, orcryftals, the loadtone
hath
no power upon them.
krrwx'i l^ulgar Errours.
From locks uncomb'd, and from the frozen beard.
Long icicles depend, aitd cracking founds are heard.
retains

The common dropftone confirts principally of fpar,

and is frequently found in form of an icicle, hanging down from the tops and fides of grottos.
n'oodxuard'i Natural Hiflory.
IciNEss. ». /. [from icy.\ The ftate of

generating ice.

P^.fe.

rcoN.

n. /.
ientation.

Di^.
'

coW.

You are no furer, no,
Than is the coal of fire upon the !ee.
Or hailftone in the fun. Shakeff^tre', Coriolanuu
Thou art all Ice, ihy kindncls ireczes. Shake/p
IhouJd alk whether ice and water
were two'
diftinfl fpecies ol things, 1 doubt
not but I lliould be'
aniwered in the affirmative.
Lickr

3. To Break the Ice.
opening to any attempt.

To make the firft

If you liriak the ice, and
do this feat,
Atchicvc the elder, fet the younger free
For our accefs, whofe hap (hall be
to have her,
Will not fo gracelefs be to be ingrate.
Shakefpe.,re:
Thus have I brokenihe iee to invention,

,

tor the!
lively reprefentanon of floods and
rivers r.etcirarv f.,r

our punters and foets.
Peacham on Drai^inr.
Afier he'd a while look'd wife,
At laft broke filence and the ice.
Iludiirat.

VeJcF.i-.a. [from the noun.]
To cover with ice; to turn to ice,

1

.

[iiKUf]

A piiSttre

reprc-

Brotvn'sfulgar Errouri.
Some of our own nation, and miny NcthcrlanJeu, vvhofe names and icons are publilhei, have
defervcd good commendation. Hakezoill on Prnid.

Ico'nocla?t.
uKoioxJiUfTK.

J

». /.

Xiconoclojie,

French;

A breaker of images.

Ico.no'loGY. n./. [iconologie, French; i'ixm
and Aiyn-.j The doftrinc of piflure or
reprefentation.

Ic T e'r 1 c a L. »./. [iaerijiu, French ; iaeriu,
Latin.]
1. Afflifted with
_

the jaundice.

In the jaundice the chbler

is

wanting, and the
windi-

iflericalh.ivc a great fournefs, and grioet 'with

2. Good againft the jaundifc.
I'cy. atj. ^from ice.]
I. Full of ice; covered with ice;
ice; cold; frofty.

But my poor heart firll fet free,
Bouii4 in th4f< icj chains by thte.

made of

How good, how fair,

Anfwering his great idea !
Milton's Partdife Loft,
If Chaucer by the bell idea wrought,

The faireft nymph before his eyes he fet. Dryde*.
Ide'al. adj. [from iJea.] Mental ; intclleftual; not perceived by the fenfes.

There is a two-fold knowledge of material things;
real, when the thing, and re.»l imprcffion
of
things on our lenfcs, is perceived
the other ideal,

one

;

when the image or idea of a thing, abfent in

itfeli,

reprefented to and confidered on the imagination.

it

Cheyne's Phil. Prin.

Idh'ali-Y. aJv. [from idea/.] Intelleauailyj
mentally.
.\ tianfmilTion is made materially from fome part»,

Em

and ideally from every one.

Brown's Vulgar
Ft.]
The

[identigue,

Ide'ntick.

fame ; implying the fame
J
thing ; comprifing the fame idea.
The beard's th idcniick beard you knew.
The fame numerically^rue.
lludiirat.
'

There majus is identical with magis.
Hate.
Thofe ridiculous WfW/Va/ propofitions, that faitk
is taith, and rule is a rule, are tirit principles in
this
coniroverfy of the rule of faith, without which nothing can be folidly concluded either about rule or

faith.

Tillotfon's Sermons.
If this pre-exiltent eternity is not compatible witk

«

duration,

fucctllii-c

perceive that

as

we

clearly

not, then

and diftiiidly

remains, that Tome
beii:g, though inlinitely abpve our finite conipichenfion^, mull have had an identical, invariable conlinuanc; from all eternity, which being is no olhe*
than God.
Renlley's Sermons.
it is

it

lijE'.NTiTY. «. /. ;V/f»///c', French ; idiutita,,
fchoolLat.J Samenefs not divcrfity.
;

Therein fallacy of equivocation from a fociciyi*
name, inferring an id;r.iiiy in n.ituie : by this fallacf
was he dckoived tiut dnnk aqua-fortis for (trorj
water,
Broti-n's P'ufgarErroun.
t^ertain'y thofe aiSions muft needs he irjular,
where there is an idesslilj between the rule and the
faculty.

Siak:/p;

witk

.

lDfc'NTH;At.."l «d/.

Boyfardus, in hit fraiJl of divination, hath fet
forth tiie icons of thcfe ten, yet added two oiheis.

I

2. Concreted fugar.

Dryden.

_,

Shake/fear..

as

Fairfax,
I did infer your lineaments,
Being the right idea of your father.
Both in your form and noblenefs of mind. Shakeff.

A fhoot of ice

part.

us,

them it is in heaven.
Hooker.
Her Iweet idea wander'd through his thoughts.

[iyjoi znd (fiuyot.]

dried,

A precious ftone of^an azure

than only that here it might be with

Dietoffifti; the praftice of eating filh.

ICE. n. /. [ij-, Saxon ; ey/e, Dutch.]
1. Water or other liquor made
foJid by

I.

The

Some there are, as camels and (heep, which carry
no name in ichthyology. Broxon's Vulgar Errours.

Skinner.]

or blue colour.

If

Aiy*'.]

Sidney.

«

f..
Our
Saviour himfelf, being to fet down the per-

leQ idea of that which we are to pray and with
lor on earth, did not teach to pray
or wiih for more

doftrine of the nature of fi(h.

pumpioa—we'U leach Jiim to know turtlot

n. /.

Happy you that may to the faint, your only idea.
Although fimply attir'd, your manly affeaion utter.

Arbuih on Diet.

commonly hanging down from the upper

What, If xhtjay more precious than the lark,
Becaufe his feathers are more huMiiaU
Sbatrfpeare.
I am highly delighted to fee the
jay or the thrulh
hopping about my walks.
Spe{Jafr.
Admires the jay, the infeflj gilded wings.
Or hears the hawk, when Philomela fines.

The form under which thefe things sppcar to the
mind, or the refult of our apprehenfion, is called are
"'"•
IVatts.

Serous;

Harvey on Confump.

from ixJIit and

<>;«i«A.yi'«,

Fairy Queen.
humidity, this grofs

ivornjay,.

ichar.\

and lehoroui, corrodes the veflTels.

Two (harp winged (heers,

11

Whatfoever the mind perceives in itfelf, or is the
immediate objcd of perception, thought, or underrtanding, that I call idea.
Locke.

Ichthyo'logy. »./. [ichlhyologie, YKUch;

Deck'd with diverfe plumes, like paiotedyayx.

fi-al'rjr

image.

which is a fign

The pus from an ulcer of the liver, growing thin

Were fixed at his back, to cut his airy ways.

„,,„,..
,
We ufe this unwholefome

IDEA. n.f. \idie, French; .'A*.] Mental

The lung-growth is imputed to a fuperficial fa-

Ritve.

named from his cry.
J AV. n. /.
bird ; fiaglandarin.

[from

mous or/rAon.«ieiulceration.

And utmoft anguilh (hakes my lab'ring frame.
/

aiij.

Shakefpeare's Timon.

Frigid; backward.
If thou do'ft find him tradable
to us.
Encourage him, and tell him all our
reafons;

Ifhe be leaden, icy, cold, unwilling.
Be thou fo too.
Shakefpeare's RiebardWl.
i D. Lontrafted for / luotild.

fanious; thin; undigefted.

2. The mouth.

My tongue deaveth to my jaiui, and thou hart
brought me into the duft of death. Pfalm, «ii
c

1'houwould'it have never learn'd

Arbuthnal on Aliments.

.

IcHoious.

where fcarce

The_,rj, precepts of refpcft.

turn into an ichor.

1.

A generation whofc tseth are as fwords, and their

^incy.

Milk, drawn fiom fome animals that feed only
upon flelh, will be more apt to turn rancid and

Addiftn.

Jaw. n. f. (jour, a cheek, French ; whence

teeth are fixed.

A thin watery hu-

crofs difplay

Cold ; free from paflion.

z.

3.

See

Janty.J Airynefs; flutter; genteelnefs. ILHOR.w, /. [i';c*f.]
mour like ferum.
A certain «i8he& in my limbs entirely deftroyed

/,'y,//.

1 empt icy feas,

to have a draught of

each front in a paper by itfcif, and
alfo to have a
draught of the groundplot or ichnograpby
oi every

were forced to winter.
Bear Britain's thunder, and her

the waters roll,
W here clearer flames glow round
the frozen pole.

[('x'Sk- and yf«ip«.]

It will be more intelligible

Shat.

}o the bright legions of the rifing day

Ichneumonfly'. «./. A fort of fly.

iy„oJuard.

from

A fmall

[!x>iv/x,m.]

codile.

JA UNTiNESS. tt. f. [Ttom jaunty, Qxjanty,
corrupted

». /.

animal that breaks the eggs of the
cro-

tedious/aa«, in tracing out thofe metallick and miiwral bodie..

phang,

Andchurhlh chiding of the Winter's wind.

He relates the exccffive coldnefs of the water they
met with in Summer in that icy region,
where they

months.

L'EJlrange.

,

If you are for a merryjaunt, I '11 try fbr once who
can toot It fartheft.
Drydtn'sSfaniJb Fryar.
Thus much of the fcheme of my defign in this
part have run over, and led my reader a long and

D E

I

/*'' *° '""''*' P«"'''y °f Adam,
Tu"'/'
t he fcafon's diff,-rtnce
; as, the icy

'

which jce is repofited againlt the warm

Hudlbras.

of bis new miftrefs : his firft jaunt is to court.
Tf

To corer with concreted fugar.
1 CHHousE. n. /. [iceandhM/e.] A houfe in
2.

S<iUtb'sS3rr.lant.

Conlidering any thing «» CTii^ing, at any deter-

mined time and fl«ce. v e t^iipaie It with
•

" »

felf-e*.

iSnf

1

D L

D

I

I

1^'

though

of our time in fo troublefome an idlenefs.
He, fearing idlencfs, the nutfe of ill,

Bull.
iJtniily and divcriity.
hrit
By cutting off the fcnft at tlw end of every
next following,
line, which mull always rhime to the
and
found,
\i prnd'iced too frequent an idtHtity in

defty,

Oftobcr, in which it is the 15th day. bccaufe in thefe four months it W;as fix days
before the nones, and in the others four
davs.
A I'oothfayer bids you beware the Ues of March.

» Shakr/ptare.

Suatefpeare

care
Children generally hate to be idle; all the
conllantly
then is, that their bufy humour Qiould be
L/>cke.
employed in C<mething of ufe to them.
the
Suppofing, among a multitude embarked in
tempell,
fame veflel, there are fevcral that, in a
be madwill rather perilh than work; would it not
rather ehufe to
nefs in the rell to Hand idle, and

Dryden.
Held idle thunder in hit lifted hand.
Where was then
The power that guards the facred lives of kings?

Bjcoh.

horfes did eat their bits.

I'DIOM. ». /. [/V/ow, Fr. I'^iW*"'] A mode
^

of fpeaking peculiar to a language or dialed the particular caft of a tongue a
;

;

phrafe; phrafeology.

'

He did romanize our tongue, leaving the words
found ihem ; whereIranflalcd as mi:ch
comply
in he followed their language, but did not
Vrjiden.
with the Ui'.m of ours.
Some that with care true eloquence (hall teach.
I'rhr.
And to juft iJimit lix our doubtful fpeecli.
Latin as lie

Idioma'tical. /7<//. from iJiom.] PecuIdioma'tick. J liar to a tongue ; phra"I

Shaktfp. Othello.

my hent 10 fpeak.
The murmuring furge,

That on th' unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes.
Cannot be heard fo high. Shaicfpeare's King Lear.
He was met even now,
Crown'd with rank fumiter and furrow weeds,
Darnel, and all the idle weeds that grow
Sbake/peare'i King tear.
i n our fuftaining corn.

6. Trifling; of no importance :

an idle

as,

(lory.

Since phrafes iifcd in converfation con trail mcanby pairing through the mouths of the vulgar, a
poet (liould guard liimfelf againft id'wmatick ways of

Suffice it then, thou money god, quoth he,
That all thine idle offers I relufe ;
what needeth me
All that I need 1 have

^^pfiljior.

fpeaking.

JotoPATHY. »./. \idiopathie,Yt. i^ii^ and
primary difeafe that neither
xcti'Sf-.']

A

depends on nor proceeds from another.
^i/tcy.

Idiosy'ncrasy.

v. /•

tJ".®-, «»», and KjSiTJs.]

Fr.

Sjdiofynncraje,

A peculiar temper

or difpofition of body not common to
%/«y.
another.
Whether quails, from any Ulofyncrafy or pecudo innocuoully feed upon hellebore, or rather fometimes but medicinally ufe the
Snivn^s l^nUar Etrours.
4_iinr
The underftanding alfo hath its idlojjiicrafirs, as
OUrrv. Sceff.
well as other faculties.
liarity of conititulion,

I'DIOT. n. J.
.;Jl«rD(.]

A.

\idiote,

fool ;

French;

idiotn,

:

To covet more than

Fairy

have caufe to ufe ?

^

Hooker.
pugnant to themfclves.
_
They are not, in our eftimation, idle reproofs,

when the authors of needlefs innovations are oppofe4
with fuch negative?, as that of Leo how are thefe
new devices brought in, which our fathers never
H;oker.
knew >
:

His friend fmil'd fcornful, and, with proud contempt,
Dryden.
Rejefls as idle what his fellow dreamt.
An idle reafoin lelTens the weight of the good ones
Stui/r.

you gave before.

71; Idle.

.

t. ».

^'i-'"-

[from the adjeftive.J

I will (lay myfelf.

Carelefly ; without attention.
But (hall we take the mufe abroad.

3.

To drop her idly on the road i
And leave our fubjcdl in the middle.
As Butler did his bear and fiddle ?

I'DOL. «./. [idole, Fr. i.A'Jiw; ido/um. Lat.J
1. An image worftiipped as God.
They did facrifice upon the idol altar, which waj
I Mae. i. 59.
upon the altar of God.
A nation from one faithful man to fpring.
Him on this fide Euphrates yet refiding,
Milton's Paradifehofi.
Bred up in idol worthip.

The apoftle is there arguing againd the gnodicks
who joined in the idol feads, and whom he therefore

Signifying nothing.

'

Zech.iu 17.
3.

What elfe doth he herein, than by a kind of cicumlocutiontell his humble fuppliants that he holds
them /</«/J» or bafc wretches, not able to get relief ?
Raleigh' tEJfays.
By idle boys and idt^tsy'Mj'i,
Sandys.
Who me and mycala.nities deride.
Many dials will believe that they fee what they
enly hear.

Demit.

1'dioTISM. w. /. [idioti/me, Fr. iW«>t.«-^«5.]
I. Peculiarity of exprefficn ; mode of expreffion peculiar to a language.
Scholarsfoncllmes in common fpeech, or writing,
in their native language, give terminations and /rf/c/i/mt fuitable to their native language unto words
Hale.
newly invented.

2. Folly; natural imbecillity of mind.

I'DLE. aJJ. [ybel, Saxon.]

Idlehe'ad EO. adj.

Never did art fo well with nature drive.

So bafe within, fo counterfeit and light.
4.
Prior.

[idle and /^ead.]

Foolifli; unreafonable.
Thefe idleh'cadedie.tkm refort thither.

1.

Caretv.

2. Delirious; infatuated.

Upon this lofsfhe fell idleheaded, and to this very
day (lands near the place llill.
I'd IE NESS.

ti.

f.

VKftrange.

men in their health, and the comfortable enjoyment
to a very ill
of themfclves j but many are alfo brought
and languifhing habit of body by mere idlencfs, and
caufe of
idlenefs is both itfelf a great fin, and the

many more.
,

A reprefentation.

Dryden,

Not in ufe.

Men beholding fo great excellence,And rare perfeilion in mortality.
Do her adore with facred reverence.
As th' idol of iter maker's great magnificence.
Fairy ^een,
c. One loved or honoured to adoration.
He's honoured and lov'd by all

The foldicr'sgod, and people's idol. Deiiham's Soph.

IDO'LATER. ». /. [idolatre, Fr. idolatra,

[from /(//<•.]

Lazinefs; floth; fluggiflinefs; averfion
fi ora labour.
Nor is e«cefs the only thing by which (in breaks

I.

An image.
Nor ever idol (eem'd lb much alive;
So like the man, fo golden to the fight;

Yet free from this poetick madnefs,
N»«t page he fays, in fobcr fadnefs,
Sit idling in their high abodes.

Sl.wh/prar,-'s M.-rierh.

A counterfeit.
Woe to the idle (hephcrd that leaveth the flock.

To

That the, and all her fellow-gods.

Life is a tale.

Alterhury.

accufes of participating of the idol god.

2.

lofe time in lazinefs and inaclivity.

Told by »n /</«/, fult ol found and fury.

P/vV.

4. Ineffeftually; vainly.
Let this and oUier alleg.ations, fuitabte unto it,
ceafe to bark any longer idly againd the truth, the
courfe and palTage whereof it is not in them to hinder.
Hooker.

.

ling ; one without the powers of reafon.

Jrene.

Shake/p.
For living idly here in pomp and cafe.
2, Foolilhly; in a. trifling manner.
And modern Afgil, whofe capricious thought
Is yet with (lores of wilder notions fraught.
Too foon onvinc'd, (hall yield that fleeting bre:ath,
Which play'd fo idly with the darts of death. WoK

and loitered away in idle unp'tofilable di-

verfions.

Raleigh.

adv. [from idle.]
Lazily; without employment.

He wilhes to recal the precious hours he has fpcnt
in trifles,

Lat.

a natural ; a change

I

This anfwer is both idle in regard of us, and re-

majefty's (hips, are fo
know not tb«

ignorant in fca-feivice, as that they
name of a rope.
Thou (luggilli W/cr, dilatory flavc

1.

It was

Alazyperfon;

Many of thefe poor (ifhermen and idlers, that are.

When vengeance call'd 'em here ?

good.
Of antres vaft, and defarts idle.

[from id/e.]

commonly prefented to his

I'di-y.

Dryden
not produftive of

». /.

a fluggard.

Or bent their idle rage on fields and trees.
Unfruitful; barren;

want of judgment;

fooliftinefs; madnefs.
There is no heat of affiiflion, but is joined with
Bacon's IVar vili Spain.
fome idlenefs of brain.

Milio"-

fcological.
licfs

^

5.

Unreafonablenefs ;

7.

Why (Icpt the lightning and the thunderbolts.

in thinking that

(land not upon their Uiocy

Shakefp.

Inefficacy ; ufeleffnefs.

6. Barrennefs; wortlileflhefs.

And threat'ning France, plac'd like a painted Jove,

ftanding>
I

From ev'ry region, i^tioi idlenefs.
5.

I'dlkr.

culiar in conllitution]

Want of under-

Sktk. Am. and Clcupalra.
Unimportance; trivialnefs.
To the Englilh court aflemble now.

4.

They allomlh'd, all refiilance loft.
down their idle weapons dropp'd.

All courage:

[i<)i»ii<«.]

Ten thoufand harms, more than the ills I know.

Ufelefs; vain; ineffeftual.

KixiTKi.]

I'diocy. ». /.

Omiflionof bufmefs.

My idlenefi doth hatch.

Add.

fiak than do more ll>aa comes to their Ihare ?
1.

Raleigh.

fures.

3.

No war or battle'* foiind
Was heard the world around,
The idle (pear and lliieid were high up hung. MiU.,

IDIO'CRASY. »./. [/-/wrra/f, Fr. I'A'^and
Peculiarity of conftitution.
Idiocra'tical.c.v)'. [{tomidiecrq^.'\ Pe-

impofmg 110 induftry or travel, idlenefi bringeth fonh
no other fruiu than vain thoughts and licentious plea-

,
reply,

Unaflive; not employed.

.

Sidney,.

Dryden.
In fculpture excrcifed his happy (kill.
Nature being fibcral to all without labour, necelTity

m mo-

Or elfe for want of idk time, could not again

brings every couplet to the point of ail epigram.
trior.

Idfs. ». /. [id'!, French; /V/«/, Latin.] A
term anciently ufed among the Romans,
an(i ftill retained in t:te Romilli kakndar.
It is the 13th day of each month, except
in the months of March, May, July and

affording Icifure
;
For often have you writ to her ; and (he

Not engaged

.

D O

Bftalt u» pine away for Tpitt, to bfe iijy

it

Soutb's Sermons.

Abfence of employment.
All which yet could not make us accufe iher,

One who pays divine honours to
images one who worfliips for God tliat
which is not God.
The date of idolaters is two ways miferable : fird,
Lat.]

;

in that which they worfhip they find no fuccour;

and

fccondly, at his hands, whom they ought to ferve,
there is no other thing to be looked for but the
cdeils of mod juft difpleafure, the withdrawing of
grace, deriletlion in this world, and io the world to

come confuCon.

Hooter.

JE A

J

An aftraloger may bt no Chriitian; be MayV
tn idolattr or a pagan; but I would hardly think
ailrology to be compatible with rank atheifm.
Benthy*s Sermons.

To Ido'latrize. v.

c r

[iTOta id'jlater.'\

To worfhip idols.

tranfported him.

Hooker.

Lat.]
ftiip

n. f.

[idolatrie,

God which is not

While the people are {o jealous of the clergy's
ambition, I do not fee any other method left for
ihem
to reform the world, than by ufing all
honeft arts to
make themfclves acceptable to the laity.
S-wifi.

Thou Ihalt be worlhipp'd, kifi'd, Iov'd,andador'd;
And, were there fenfe in his idolatry^

Jealousy, adv. [from jealous.

My fubllance Ihouid be lUtued in thy Head.
Shakrfpeare.
Idolatry n not only an accounting or worlhipping that for Cod which is not God, but it is alfo a
worfhippingthe true God in a way unfuitable to his
nature J and particularly by the mediation of Fmagcs
and corporeal refemblances.
South.
The kings were diftingtiiflied by judgments or
lltflSngs, according as they promoted idolatry, or
the worihip of the true Cod.
Addifan's SfeHainr.

A

Ido'list. »./. [from jV/o/.
worlhipper
of images. A poetical word.
to
Cod
I
have brought

7»1do'lize. -v. a. [from idoL'\
or reverence to adoration.

emuloufly ; with fufpicious
fear, vigilance, or caution.
Je'al»usness. 7/. /. [from y<-a/fl«/.] The
ftate of being jealous; rivalry;
fufpicion ; fufpicious vigilance.
Nor is it hard for thee to preferve me amidft the
unjuft hatred andy>a/oj(/«f/lof too many, which
thou
haft fuffered to prevail upon me.
King Charles.
Je'alousy. ft./, [jaloujie, Fr. from >a-

Sitting alone, his bitter lips did bite.

Fit

The defertcame on, tni jellies brought. King,
ThatyV//))'! rich, this malmfey healing;
Pray dip your whilkers.
Pope's Sat. of Horace.

king, proceeded only from hii jealoufy, that when
the king had got him into his hands he would take
rcivenge Uj>on him.

Aylifft.

A

fmall fhort poem.

E. for id eft, or, that is.
That which raifes the natural intereft of moncv

is the fame that raifes the rent of land,
i.e. its apti
neTs to bring in yearly, to him that

manages

it

a grtjier overplus of income above hii rent,
as a re-

ward to his labour,

^^^

Clarendon.

Sufpicious caution, vigilance, or rivalry.

To Jeer. 'v. n. [Of uncertain ctymolygy.] To feoff; to flout; to make
mock.
The merry world did on a day

which are called inTaylor.

To treat with fcofl's.

My children abroad are driven to difavow me,
King Lear.

Wear your

eye thus; not jealou,,
norfecurej
would not have your free and noble
nature,
Outoffelf bounty, be. bus'd: l«>k
I

to't.

Sbakefp.

.he virtuou,

her hulband

A jealous emprefs lies within your tsmi'^'"'"'

Too haughty to endure negleited charms.
hmulous; full of com^tition.

Dnden

2.

could not. without extreme
reluftance. refien
the theme of your beauty to another
I

hand

vive me
ka« to acquaint the world that I tmjealojot
:

thi,

y-j

g. Zealoufly cautious againft difhonoar.

for fear of \>t\n% jeered.

lo hazard

;

Prior.

[See JEOPARDY.]to put in danger. Obfolete.
-v.

a.

He had been accufed of Judaifin, and did bold'yje'.fard his body and

lor

life

the religion of the

.I'ws-

2 Mac.

JtoPARDOus adj. from jes^^rdy.]

Ha-

zardous; dangerous.
JE'OPARDY. «./. JTThis word is f^^p.
pofed to be derived from j'ai ferdu, or jeuSkinner and

Thy rage (hall burn ihec up, and thou fhalt turn
To alhcsere our blojd (hall quench that (ire
;

Look to rhyfelf, thou art in jeopardy. Shalifpeare.

We may impute to all exctlltncies in compofitiona

Jeer. n. f. [from the verb.] Scoff; taunt;
biting jcft; flout; jibe; mock.

a kind of poverty, or at Icalt a cal'jally ox jeopardy,

Midai, expos'd to all their /cerj,
Had loft hii art, and kept his ears.

They tipt the forehead in a_/>i-r,
As who ftiould fay— (he wants it here
She may be handfome, young, and rich

Jeerer.

«. /.

S-jiift.

I

feoff.

blow

in

Scorn-

mock;

in

to lafh..

;

lack iniquity

nine or ten times
thought. to 'yt jerk'd him here under the ribs,
;

Sb.tkffeare,

Only dulncfs can produce
While a Iiltlc gentle joking
;

.Set!

the fpirits all a-woiking.

To Jerk, 1: n.l'o

finite

_

'lo

Baftings heavy, dry, oblufe,

Je'erincly. «4'a;. ]Jxom jeering.'l
contemptuouflyj

1

A fcoffer; a

[fromy«r.]

,

fully;

ftrike with a quick fmart

Sometimes to do me fcrvice

fcorner ; a mocker.

'

Hacon,

foJtRK. y. a. [^epeccan, Saxon. J
It is fomftimes written ycrk.

Swift.

^

Hazard ;

Ju?:itis.

Ih-wrl't England's Tears.

But none will burn her (or a witch.

•

ToJto'pARD.

daiiger ; Peril.
A word not now in ufe.
And would ye not poor fellowrtiip expel,
Myfelf would oft'er you t' accompany.
In this adventure's chanceful leuparjy.
Hubberd.

To]tts..'v. a.

j

The Spanilh king prefents ^jennet.
To Ihcw his love.

perdu.

And k11 in fport to/crr at me.

loud talking and jeering,
decencies, and incivilities.

To both ihcfcfiders have I fworn my love

nifh horfe.

With his trainbands and mates, agree

jcfts,

Sufpicious in love.

A Sp'a-

n.f. [SeeGfiNNET]

To meet together where 1 lay.
Herhert.
Abftain from diliblute laughter, petulant uncomely

JE'ALOUS. </«>•. {jaloux, French]
Each jeaUui of the other, as the ftung
Are o. the adder.
Shah,ff,.,re;

3.

Je'n-net.

Drydtn.

-.

2. bufpicious fear.

on an ido.

[iiJV,AAi«; idyltium, Lat.
J

A fpecies-

an apple ripe in June.}

Mortimer's Hiijbatidn,

The obftinacy/ -"
in Eflex
in refufing
—
•••-•»..
to treat
il^tfi with
i'^ .w
Willi lllc
the

mtuifttfon.

Tietitig,

of aj)ple foon ripe, and of a p'eafant tafte.

.Sbatifp. Cymleline.
Sn\ii\ jealiufes, 'tis true, inflame defire
;
Too great, not fan, but quite blow out the fire.
.

•

Je'nneting. n.f. [corrupted from Ju.

With nccikh jealoufy r

e , .

Shakefp.

Sweetmeat made by boiling fugar in the

To taint his noble heart and brain

An ecclefiaftical benefice is fometimes void de jure
fif faClo, and then it ought «o be conferred

lt>OJCC(a

They, diftill'd
Almoft to jelly with th' tSedt of fear,
Stand dumb, and fpeak not to him.

Shakefp

Boyle.

king them corrode fome idoneout body.

fool to

Je'lly. n.f. [gelatinum.'Lit.} See Gklly,.
which is the proper orthography.
1. Any thing brought to a flate of
glutinoufnefs and vifcofity.

did you fuffi:r Jachimo,
Slight thing of Italv,

•

proper; convenient: adequate.
You entangle, and fo fij their faline part, by ma-

M.fttef. Ford, the honeft
woman,
creature, that hath the jealoy,

the attention.

As doubtful thoughts, and rafh cmbrac'd defpair;

Why

want of matter that can engage

Je'llied. a^', [SeeGELLY.] Glutinous;
brought to a ftate of vifcofity.
The kifs that fips
The jellied philtre of her lips.
Cleaz'eland.

Fairy Queen.

O love, be moderate; allay thine eatafy.

Bacon.

2. Drynefs;

gelly.

And Ihudd'ring fear, and tften-cyei jealoufy

Panics, with the greateft violation of Cliriftian
unity, denominate themfelves, not from the grand
author aad finifher of our faith, but fiom the firft
broacherof their idolized op'iniom.
Decay of Piety,

I'dyl. n. f.

Caufes of fixation are, the even fpreading both
and the y>y«««y>, or extreme comminution

parts,

How all the other paflions fleet to air.

To love

[idaneut, Latin.]

Penury ; poverty.

°f '!""'«•

But gnawingyVa/j./)., out of their Gght

Who not their gold, nor themfclves idolixt. Dtnliam.

adj.

1.

2.

Sufpicion in love.

Boyle.

Jeju'neness. «. /. [{[om jejune.}

/»«r.]
1.

Thofe who are generous, humble, juft, and wife.

Id'oneous.

Sufpi-

cioufly;

Difhonour, obloquy, and op'd the mouths
Of idolijii and atbeilt.
Milfn's Agemfits.

1.

Sufpicioufly fearful.

Renders us yM/mr, and deftroys your peace. IValler.

as

You may look upon an inquiry made up of mere
narratives, as fomewhat y>/«»f.

'Tis doing wrong creates fuch doubts as thefe

God.

\.

Decay of Piety.

The worfhip of images; the wor-

of any thing

r«
ly n.
Ury;
unaffeftinff; deficient in matter.

Wilton.

.

Bacn.

,
Hungry; not faturated.

Broivn,

and yet how nialiciouny prodigal of other

r^X^V..

6.

in

without much difficulty j
is not jejune, orfcarce in

In grofs and turbid ftreams there
might be contained nutriment and not in jejune
or limpid water.

How maX-^ jealous is every one of us of his own

Fr. idolatria,

volatile, and yet melieih

'>il"-

2.

3.

Piotefting fate fupreme.

red.

Ido'latry.

It

TheyyM/wj of their fecrets, fiercely oppos'd

repute,

Gold is the only fubftance which hath nothing

.

the melting flieweth that it

My journey ftrange, with clamorous uproar

idolatrousT]

A kind of faufage. Ainf-w.
^

Wanting; empty; vacant.

I.

HenrySW.

In aa idolatrous manner.

"• -f'

JEJU'NE. adj. [jejums, L.at.]

Clarendon.

Although he were a prince in military virtue
approved, ini jealous of the honour of
the Engli(h nation i yet his cruelties and
parricides weighed down
his virtues.
Bacon's

and martyrs of the church, be drawn to an iJolairous ufe, or be fet up in churches to be worlhipped.
Ftacham on Dratvin^.

Not therefore whatfoevcr idolatera have cither
thought or done ; but let whatfoever they have either
thought or done idolatroujly, be fo far forth abhor-

\l^^^,}'^

J. bufpicioufly careful.

tles,

Ido'latrously. adv. [from

Kings.

im jealous over you with godly jealoufy.

" ^°''- ''• *•
vsr
Mis apprehenfions,
as Km Jealous nature had much
of fagacity in it, or his reftlefs
and mutinous humour,

Tend-

ing to idolatry ; compriiing idolatry, or
the worfhip of falfcgods.
Neither may the piiftures of our Saviour, the apof-

^

.

t^

'Hijeeringly demandeth, whether the
fonoreojrays are refraded ?
Dcrham,

.

Ai/ipwarth.

Ido'latrous. adj. [from idolater.}

.

.

J E R
Lord CoJ of hods.

4. bufpicioufly vigilant.
I

a,

EE

I have been vtryjeahit, for the

Sti'/ft.'.

up:, to

accofl

eagerly,

Norblul>i,niouU hefomtK"vt »ci|uaintflnc« mett,
But, proud ol being knowii, will jerk aad itreet.

ihjden,

JgRic. V. /. [from the verb.]

A fmart quick lath.

1.

Contemn the filly taunts of fletring buffoonry
«nd \.\\ejrrh of that wit, that is but a kind of con-

When you the dulleft of jull thing* have fald,
And then a(k pardon lor the jfji you made. Voung,
'1 he objed of jcrts ; laughing-ftock.
If fufpecl without caufe, why then make fport at
me; then let me be youij'j}, I defcrve it. Sbake/p.
feigned,
J. Manner of doing or fpeaking
not real ; ludicrous, not ferious ; game,
not eameft.

A

a

quick

that

jolt

Well lun Ta<vney, the abbot's churl
His jade gave him hjfrk.
As he would have his rider hurt
BnyoKfon.
His hood aftMrthe kirk.
Lobfters ufe their tails as fins, wheirwith they
jerks,
commonly fwim backwards by
or fjirings,
Gre^v.

reaching ten yards at once.

Jt'fcKiN. «. /. [cyprelkin, Saxon.]
A
jacket ; a fliort coat ; a clofe waillcoat.
A man may wear it on both fides like a leather
jirkin.

Sbakefpcafe,
IJiilefs we (hould expeft that nature (hould make
•jrrkins and ftockirrjis gmw out of the ground, what
.could (he do better than afford us wool ?
More.
Imagine an arobadador prefenting himfelf in a poor
frize jerkin, and tattered cloaths, certainly he would
have but fmall audience.
iioutb*j Sermons,
Then ftrip thee of thy carnal jerkifi.

And give thy outward tellow a firking.

Hudiirds,
I walked into the fea, in jny leathernyrritm, about
in hour before high water.
Gulliver'i travels,
kind of hawk. Ainjhuorth.
J e'rkin. «. /.

A

much yarn is Ipun.]

portable pleafure, fuch an one as he carries about
in his bofom, without alarming either the eye or
envy of the world : a man putting all his plcafutes
into this one, is like a traveller's putting all his goods
into one jexuel.
South.

2.

Je-wels too, ftones, rich and precious ftone,
my daughter Sbakefp. Mercbant ofVeK^
Proud fame's imperial feat
With/fTUf/j blaz'd, magnificently great.
Poff.

3.

Je'ssamine.

[See Jasmine.]
». /.
fragrant flower.
Her goodly bofom, like a ftrawberry bed j
Her neck, like to a bunch of cullambincs;

Jewel-house, or Office, «. /. The place
where the regal ornaments are repofited.
The king has made him mafter of the jc%ueU

Sbakefp,
Sbakejpeare,

Sj'tnfer.

To]t%T. ni. ti. gejiiculor, Lat.] To divert
or make merry by words or aftion.
man, left tly anceftors be
Ecclel. viii. 4.

Tilhtfon.
Prier.

Thomfon's Summer.

tough and thin ; and naturally, wnile
growing, of a rumpled figure, like a fiat
and varioufly hollowed cup ; from an
inch to two inches in length, and about
two thirds of its length in breadth. Its

Spurts in the gard'ner's eyes who turns the cock.

Pofe.
3.

A yard.

Tufer's Hu/i.

ToJet. -u. ». [jetter, Fr.J

It is to jet upon a prince's right ?

To ftrut

;

to in-

of the human ear. It generally grows
on the lower parts of the trunks of elder-

7 he common people cure
themfelves of fore throats with a decocHill's Mat. Med.
tion of it in milk.
An herb called je-u^s-ear groweth upon the lower

Shakefpeare.

to agitate the body by a proud

gait.
Contemplation makes a r.are turkey-cock of him :
how he jets under his advanced plumesSbakefp.
jolt ; to be (haken. [Jetter, Fr.]
3.

To

Upon the jelling of a hackney-coach (he was
thrown out of the hinder feat againft a bar of iroo
in the forepart,

hollow,

trees decaying.

(hoot forward; to (hoot out ;
trude ; to jut out.
Think you not how dangerous

J. 'I'o

fides in many places run into the

fo as to reprefent in it ridges like thofe

Obfolete.

What orchard unrobbed efcapcs,
Or pullet dare walk in their jei f

2.

principles of religion, or for the holy fcripiures, bejcaulc idle and profane wits can htaikjrjls upon them.

but the intrinfick worth of a thing
L'Eflrangt.,
I will tarn jeu/eller!
I (hall then deal in diaand
monds,
all forts of rich (tones.
Addifon,

Prodigious 'tis, that one attraflive ray
Should this way bend, the next an adverfe way !
For (hould th' unfeen magnetick jets defecnd
All the fame way, they could not gain 'heir end.
Blackmore,
Thus the fmall jet, which hafty hands unliKk,

Sbakrfpeare's Richard HI.

xaife laughter.
But is this true, or is it elfe your plcafure,
Like pleafant travellers, to break a jrfi
Upon the company you overtake ?
Shake/peare.
As (ox jtft, there be certain things which ought
to be privileged from it j namely, religion, matters of
flate, and great perfons.
Bacon.
No man ought to have the lefs reverence for the

is one thing ;

to a man of fenfe is another.

Jews-ears. n. /, [from its referablance of
Skinner.'\
the human ear.
A fungus,

Fear you the boar, and go fo unprovided?

Any thing ludicrous, or meant only to

Boyle..

The price of the market to a jevieller in his trade

A fpout or (hoot of water.

[Jet, Fr.]

2.

-^You mayyV^on: but 1 do not like thefe feveral
Jest. ». /. [from the verb.]

Shakefpeare.

houfe.

J e'w E L L E R . ». /. [from jeiuel. ] One who
trafficks in precious ftones.
Thefe grains were as like little dice as if they had
been made by a jevfelUr,

Under fiowing jet,

A

Her bread lik* lillies, ere their leaves be (bed ;
Her nipples, like young bloflbm'd y<^m/>«.

A

name of fondnefs ; an appellation of
tender regard.
Bid farewel to your lifters.
_/t'u;e/j of our father, with wafh'd eyes
Cordelia leaves you.
S bakefptare's King LetK,

Of feed pearl, ere (he bath'd her therC)
Was known as black as jet.
Drayton.
One of us inglafs is (et.
One of us you'll find in jet.
Sviifi.

Tke neck flight (haded.

!

— Ye

The tottom clear,

If I prove her haggard.
Though that my jejfrs wen her dear heart firings,
I'd nhilUe her off, and let her down the wind
To prey at fortune.
Shakefpeare' s Othdh.

A precious (lone; a gem.
Stol'ii by

Now hid with many a fet,

Jess. ». /.
Short (traps of leather tied about the legs
of a hawk, with which (he is held on
the (ift.
Hanmer.

He bad tunTd all trngedy ta jrji.

Sbakefpeare,

The pleafure of the religious man is an eafy and

more difference between thy flefh and

hers, than between jet and ivory.

{^ede, French; getto, Italian.]

councils.

An empty calkct, where the yViu</, life,

It is confounded with cannal-coal, which
has no grain, and is extremely hard ; and
the ye? is but moderately fo.
Hill.

is

my pidtur*.

By fume damn'd haiid was robb'd and ta'en away,

n. f.

There

'tis

Sbakeffeare,

[jajac, Saxon; get, Dutch;
gagates, Lat.]
1. Jet is a beautiful foffil,
of a firm and
even ftrufture, and a fmooth furface;
found in ma(res, feldom of a great fize,
lodged in clay; of a fine deep black,
having a grain refembling that of wood.

"Jerujalem artiebokes are incteafed by fmall ofFfets, and by quartering the roots.
Mortimer.

7c/? not with a rude
dilgraced.

Here, wear this jev/e/ for me ;

They found him dead, and caft into the (heeu,

only of many ftealths, but alio privy to many traiterous practices.
Sf infer on Ireland.

Sunflower,

of which they are a fpecies.

Dutch.]
Any ornament of great value, ufed commonly of fuch as are adorned wiUt precious ftones.

Another fort of like loofe fellows do pafs up and
down, amongA gentlemen, by the mmt af jejlers
but are, indeed, notable rogues, and partakers not

black, forfooth ; coal-black, as jet.

n. f.

1.

A

Fine yarn

Pope.

JE'WEL. «. /. [joyaux. Trench; jeweelea,

Buffoon ; jackpudding.
jejier, or licenfed fcoffer, was kept at court to the
time of Charles the firit.

of wool.
1\t.\i'&k\.zin Artichokes,

1.

Sbake/p.

With Ihallow ji^erj, and ralh bavin wits;
Soon kindled and foo.i burnt. Sbake/p, Henry IV.
2. One given to farcafm.
Now, asayV^cT, I accoft you.
Which never yet one friend hath loft you.
Svfift.

This (hould be written gyrkin.
J e'rsev. ». f. [from the ifland of Jerfey,
ivhere

Pi lor,
Nigrina black, and Merdamante brown,
Vied for his love in jtiiy bow'ra below.

Je'ster. n./. [from jefi.]
1. One given to merriment and pranlcs.
The Ikipping king, he rambled up and down

JET.

Brmia'sPulgar Err.

Her hair

fpoke and did thofe things in _/V/?f which would have
Grew.
become a king in earneft.

3.

W

Adown her ftioulders loofciy lay difplay'd,
And in her yrr/y.- curls tea thoufand Cupids play'd.

When his playfellows chofe him their king, he

at&Aed by Lucaii, but more fparingly ufcd by Virgil.

fudden fpring;
(hocks or ftarts#

gafcar, are of ayV//)r black.

That high All feer, which I dallied with,
Hath ttim'd my firigned prayer on my head,

And giv'n in eameft, what I beeg'd mjffi,

«

Black as jet.
The people about Capo Negro, Cefala, and Madt-

2.

1

Giairv.
Wit is not the/Pr/f or fting nf an epigranit nor the
feeming contradi<t>ion of a poor antilhefii ; neither
is it fo r.iuch the morality of a grave lentencc,

DryJ^ti.

Je'ttt. aJi„ [{tomjtt.}
1. Made of jet.

2.

fident folly.

c.

JEW

JET

JUS
This fcems to be tlie meaning
•in this place, but is mere cant.

«agcrly.

IViftman.

parts of elder,
it

and fometimes alhes

:

in warm water

fwellelh, and opencth extremely.

Jews-harf. «. /.

Bacon,

A kind of mufical in-

ftrument held l>etween the teeth, which
gives a found by the motion of a broad
fpring of iron, which, being (truck by
the hand, plays againft the breath.

Jrws-MAI-Low. n. f.

[corchorus,

Latin.]

J e'tsa M. J »./. [jetter, French.] Goods or
Je'tson. j other things which, having
been caft over board in a ftorm, or after
(hipwreck, are thrown upon the Oiore,
and belong to the lord admiraU

Jews-stoke, n, J, The davatcd fpine of

i

a very

fown in great plenty
about Aleppo as a pot-herb, the Jews
Ran-uiolf fays

it

is

boiling the leaves of this plant to eat it
Milltr,
with their meat.

;

G N-

r

G JT

I

IG N

rery large egg-fliaped /ea-orcBin, petriSuch bodies onlyftrike fire which have fulpliur or
I
fied by long lying in the earth.
Igmlible fixts.
It is of
Brown' t Vulgar Errours.
a regular figure, oblong \and rounded, Ign! vomous. adj. [ignivomus , Lat.]
VoIwelling in the middle, and gradually tamiting fire.
Vulcanos and i^nii'omaus mountains are feme of
pering; about three quarters of an inch
the mort terrible Ihocks of the globe.
Dcrbam.
>n length, and half an inch in diameter
;
ridged and furrowed alternately, in a lon- IGNO'BLE. adj. [ignoble, French ; ignobilis,
Latin.]
gitudinal direftion ; and its colour
is a
1. Mean of birth; not
»oblej not of illufpale dulkygrey, with a faint caft
of dufky
trious
reddiflinefs.

A

2.

ythat rebellion
I fay, //"damn'd commotion fo appear'J,
In his true, native, and mod proper fliape.

Had not been there.

Sbahfpeart' i Henry IV
/^they hare done this deed, my noble lord,
we can defire

•0 fee all things, Malbranche makes a proof that
tbey are prefent to our minds; and
if they be prefent, they can no ways be prefent but bv the
prefence
'
Cod,
of
who contains them all.
Loeke

mimo/us, Lzt.] Mean; fliameful ; reproach
ful; diihonourable.

i't/wV Stttius.

that ;

foj^fe

I'c N E o u «. adj. [igneui, Lat.
]

,

Ign POTENT, adj.

Fled ignominious.
Ctihcgus, though a traitor to the ftate.

Milton,

And lortur'd, 'fcap'd this ignominious fate.

Dryd.

Vapours arifing from putrified waters are
ufually
hl^ion', Oftickl.

•

'"«" P"*"*" "•

Ra-a.

mable ;
in nfe»

[from igmte.-\ Inflamopablc of -being fct on fire. Not
adj.

Ignoramus is a word properly ufed by
the grand inqueft impannellcd in the in-

that paity, for that fault, is thereby ftopped; and he delivered without farther an-

wher turned veffels of wood, are the effefls

Ioi«j'tjbi,e.

Mdijon.

:

that the

of />«/';«, by the prefTute of an edged ftjck
upon tfie
vellcl turned nimbly in the lathe.

4.

feaive, or too weak to make good the
pri;fcntment
the tfttO. of which word fo
written is, that all farther inquiry upon

'*%''"" "'S*"
P":<«"ly communicated.
Boyle.
Thofe black circular line, we fee on
dilhes, and

f^ef;
2.

Co^el.

A loolifh fellow, a vain uninftrufted
,

pretender.

ill

forefeen

Liv'd ignorant of future

;

and

Bacon's Effayi,

,

.

Better had I

!

!

My part of evil only.

and publick
and written upon the bill, whereby any
crime is offered to their confideration,
when, they miflike their evidence as dc-

°

^

_

O vifions

juft,

quifition of caufes criminal

IcNiTiow. ,./ [ignition, Fr. from igmteA
The aa of kindling, or of fettine on
The laborant flirrtd the kindled nitre,

part of their oflnce, ,a wife application of laws.

IGSORJMVS.H./. [Latin.]
2.

Sljukrf. ypinttr'slale.

Without knowledge of fome particular.

Unacquainted with.

•

A low word.

Tell an ignoram:-; in place and power, that
he
has a wit and an undcrdarding ;bove all the
world,
and he ib41 twdily adjoit the ct-jumtadatjon.

Souib.

fo had borne

Milton's Paradl/e I.r.J}.

In a good fcnfe.

TgOTrrfM/ofguill, I fear not fliame.

Milton.

I"'*-

Grev,'^ Mujeeum.

lire.

In ignorant concealment.
3.

Let not judges be fo ignortnt of t.hcir own
right,
as to think tlieie is not left to ihera,
as a principal

Their generals have been lecclved with honour
after their defeat, yours with ignominy
after con.

A chyraical
^

term.
Take good firm chalk, ignite it In a crucible,

Soutb

Vaiu-glorious, and through infamy feeki fame.

"• "• fffom '/»". fire. Lat.]

on fire.

Thereof to be informed, imprifon't not

Illaudable, nought merits but difpraife

IGNIS FATUUS. «.f. [Latin.] Will with
called igne.fatui.

ledge

who died

And ignominy ; yet to glory afpires,

Pote

the wifp ; Jack with the lanthom.

poetical.
If you know aught, which does behove
myknow..^

Adieu, and take thy praife with thee to heav'n :

_,.

Pott.

Unknown; undifcovered. This is merely,

2.

Thy ignominy deep with thee in the grave. Sbakefp.

Claniitle'sSceffit.

•

Fools grant whate'cr ambition craves.

And men, once ignwant, are Haves.

Dilerace ; reproach ; ihamc
infamy; meanneft; dilhonour.

Sirerigih Irora truth divided, and from

ignorant

More learned than the ears.
Shakejp. CorioUnus,
He that doth not know thofe things which arc of
ufe for him to know, is but an ignorant
ijuin, whatever he may know befides.
Tiilotfon,

nin, I,atin. J

Fiery ; con-

Shakffeare's Mactetb.

In fuch bufinefs

I'GNOMINY. n.f. [ignominie, Fr. i.nom'i.

[ignU and /./«/, Lat.]
Prefiaing over fire.

to fct

The luture in the inftant.

;

I

^"Ji^^y^^To kindle;

This j^n'raw prefent time, and I feel now

IhamefuUy ; reproachfully.
It is fome allay to the infamy of him
ignominioujlj to be buried privately.

was as a beaft.

Thy letters have tranfported me beyond

Aflion is eloquence, and the eyes of th'

Icnomi'niouslt. ad'v. [from ignominious.']
Meanly
fcandaloufly ; diigracefully
;

be granted

Vulcan IS called the pow'r irnipotevt.

^"^ ignorances.

Itrufted ; unenlightened.
So foolilh was I and ignorant, I

S'.nft.

taining fire; emitting fire; having
the
nature of fire.
That the fire bums by heat, leaves us ftill
ignorant of the immediate way of igneous
folutions.
.

rxT".1'

Wanting knowledge; unlearned; unin-

I.

one fingle, rapaciout, obfcure, igimmHious projcdor.

that.
Such mechanical circumftanees,
if I may fo call
them, were not nectffary to the experiments. Boyle.

Con,, fray,

c
'"' ""y *""'

rob.
IGNORAN I. «^-. \;,gmrant, Fr. ignorans,

Nor has this kingdom deferved to be facrificed to

Dryden.

Prior.

hrloct..

"T-<v.

Prior.

it

power to pretend ignorance-

Want of knowledge difcovered by ex-

T//-^XT/!i',,

Should complimcnl their foes, and (hun their friends.

—

Allowing

in every body's

In this fenfe it has a plur.
Forgive us aU our fins, negligences,
and ign,.

Ufed both of perfons

Uiiceruin //"by augury, or chance

3-

is

°f"'«'^"'-

They gave, and Ihe transferr'd the curs 'd advice.
That monarchs fliould their inward foul difguife
By ignominious arts, for fervile ends,

Whether or no.

—

It

They with pale fear furprix'd.

Tifiphone, that oft haft heard my pray'r,

But by this eafy rife they all advance.
She doubts //"iwo and two make four:
It can't
it may be
and it muft
To which of thefe muft Alma truftf
Nay, further yet they make her go,
In doubting //"Ihe doubts or no.

par-

'^

ticular thing.

and things.'

All of them fuppofed the apoftle to have
allowed
the Epicurean mamms to be good
j^ fo be there
j
were no refurreflion.
Aiieriury.

thy care.

Dryden

Icnomi'nious. adj. [igmrmnieux, Fr. igno-

This infallibility upon fuppofuion, amounts to
this',
MiatJ^a thing be true, it is impoflible to be falfe.

Afiift, /Oedipus deferve

The only wretched are the wife
Prhr
Want of knowledge refpetling fome

ternal effea.

;

There fcatter'd o'er the fields ignobly fly.

"

at length

!

2.

3.

Ignobly !
Milton's Paradife Loft.
Here, over-malch'd in fight ; in heaps they lie

Sbaliff,.

.

things, becaufe

;

Hbakef.

fly to heav'n.

As moft abated captives, to fome
nation
1 hat won you wi thout blows.
Sbake/peare..
If we fee right, we fee our
woes ;.
Then what avails it to have eyes ?
From ignorance our comfort flows.

Shall yield up all her nitue, all their fame

—If! tiUt'ft thou to me of if, ? Thou art a traitor.

banilh your defenders, 'tiU

Your ignorance deliver you.

proachfully ; difgracefully.
To thefe, that fober race of men, whofe liVei
Religious, tilled ihein the fons of God,

You, reverend father, and thefe noble lords,

2.

Still

Icno'bly. adi-j. [from ignoble.'\ Ignominioufly ; meanly ; dilhonourably ; re-

Came like itfelf in bafe and abjeft root«

.

Knowledge the wing wherewith we

Worthleft ; act deferving honour, tjfed
of things or perfons.
The noble ifle doth want her proper limbs

Her royal ftock graft with ignoble plants.

Hooker.

as learned as themfclvej
arf

moft complain of ignorance in
others, vet our
book of prayer might remain the
Um':.
Htolnr.
Ignorance is the curfe of God,

Mad are their motions, and their tongues are load.

Abfolute approbation, without any
cautions, qualifications, ifs or ands.

_.
,
,
This feeing of all

If all the clergy were

Dryden.

Suppofe it be fo, or it were fo, that.
hypothetical particle.

Want of knowledge; unlearnedncfs.
tha

As when in tumults rife th' iptoile cmrrd.

Hill's Mat. Med.

"

Latin.]
I.

race.

It is found in Syria.

If. conjunahn. [jip, Saxon,]
I.

I'gnorance. »./ {ignorance, l^r.igmratn^,.

5.

Ignorantly made or donci

Dryden.'

Unufual.

Ilis^ Ihipping,

Poor ig^orai:! baubkf , on our terrible feas
Like cgg-lhells mov'd.
Skikeffeme. ^

IcNORANTi n.f. One untaught, unlet-tered, uninftru<fled.
Did I for this take pains to teach

Our icalous i^oraitts to preach

!

Denham,

I'cNORANTLY.Wi^. [hotn ignorent.} Without knowledge; unfkilfulJy ; without information.
The gr:
and moft cruel foes we have,
Are thofe whom you would ignorantly umc,
Dryd.
.

.

When a poet, an oratoi, or a painter' has per-

formed admirably, we fometimes miftake his blun. •
and arc lb igKoraniiy fond j< liu

dcTs for beauties,

copy after them.

tTalts,

To Igno're. 'v.a. [igncrer, Fr. igvoio, Lar,

Not to know

;

to be ignorant of.

']

hia

word Boyle endeavouredto introduce; bu|
it has not

been received.

igMvred not the

ftriiter interpretation, g5ycn br.
mo^j'ii cdticlu l« direrf texts, by sax altcdgcd.
1

Btyll^
PhJIofofhj-,

JIN

I

men

if

Philofopliv would folidly be cftabfiflied,
that
would more carefulh diftinguifli thofe things

Boylt.

!gi.-ore

they know from ihofe that they
1 8 L E. adj. [igno/ci6i/lt, Lat. J

Dia
pable of pardon.
JIG. n. f. \g'ga. Italian; gtige, Teutonick,
light carclefs dance, or tune.
a fiddle.J

A

As addlers ftill.

giviag times, to countenaiice a legitimate poem.

Any c'ink, or fliarp rattle.

i.

2. It is ufed, I think,

MUttiit.

The mules blufii'd to fee tlieir friends exalting
Fnilon.

There elegant delight! oijig and vaulting.

the country, that
Wellniinller(lie (lioijld dance a jig neit October at

If you plant where favages are, do not only enthem with trifles and jingles, but ufe them

Arbutbml.

Another Phosbus, thy own Phttbus reigns,
Jovs in my Jigs, and dances in my chains.^

Pope.

[from llie noun.J To dance
ExpreiTed in concarelefly j to dance.
tempt.
and figures of dances, I

Lode.

count that little.

One
Ji'g-maker.
f. [jig and make.]
who dances or plays merrily.
Your only jig-mjker ! what (hould a man do but
ti.

». /.

The gods their timely fuccour interpofe
And when our virtue (inks, o'erwhclm'd with grief,
By unforel'een expedients bring relief.

A
n. f. [corrupted from aijle, Fr.]
wilk or alley in a church orpublick build-

A. Philipt.

Properly aile.
ing.
Upward the columns (hoot, the roofs afcend,

III. adv.

Pope.
And arches widen, and long lies extend.
An ear of corn.
Ile. ». /. \_aijle, Fr.]

1.

A

[A cant word.]

of one part of the gut within the other.

Arbutbnat.

ILIX. n.f. [Latin.]
The ilex,
England,

is

or

great fcarlet oak, thrives well

a hardy fort of tree,

in

and eafily raifed of

The Spaniards have a fort they call enzina

acorns.

;

the wood of which, when old, is finely chambletted,

Mortimer.

as if it were painted.

Relating to the

Iliac, adj. [iliacut, Lat,]

lower bowels.
The iliac palTion is a kind of convullion in the

a knick-knack ; a llight contrivanee in' machinery.

A kind of nervous choHc,

whofe feat is the ilium, whereby that gut
is twifted, or one part enters the cavity
of the part immediately below or above
whence it is alfo called the volvulus, from

He riSed alt his pokes and fobs
Of gimcracks, whims, uni jiggumioln. Hudliras.
JILT. ft./, [giiiti, Iflandick, to intrap in an
amour, Mr. Lye. Perhaps from giglot, by

;

'vol'vo,

to roll.

Thofe who die of the lilac pajfton have their belFloyer on the Humours,
much fwelled.

lies

The fame.

Ilk. <zd^'[ealc, Saxon.]

It is

and denotes
each
as, ilk ane ofyou, everyone of you.
as, Macintofh
It alfo fignifies the fame
of that ilk, denotes a gentlem.nn whofe
furname and the title of his eftate are the
fame as, Macintofh of Macintofh.
ftill

retained

in Scotland,

:

A

not rightly in any refpeft.

;

both (he and all her train
The fcorching fun had borne, and beating rain.
Drydetl,

2.

Not eafily; with paia; with diiHculty.
Thou defir'(t

The punilhment allon thyfelfl alas!
Bear thine own firft ; ill able to fuftain
His full wrath, whofe thou feel'ft at yet leaft part.
And my difpleafure bear'ft fo ///.
itilnn.
Ill bears the fex a youthful lover's fate.

When juft approaching to the nuptial (late. Drydett.
Ill, fubftantive or adverb, is ufed in compofition to exprcfs any bad quality or
condition, which may be eafily underftood by the following examples.

III. ful-flanti've.

belly.

I'liac FajJioH.

trinket ;

contraftion ; or gilief, oz gillot, the diminutive of gill, the ludicrous name of a
woman. 'Tis alfo called jillet in Scotland.]
woman who gives her lover hopes,
J.

really either a circumvolution, or iiifeition

is

Not well
Ill at eafe,

Aii'f'worth.

ILE'US. n.f. [Latin.]
An ilei4s, commonly called the twilling of the

ShateJ'peMe's Hamlet.

be merry ?

When preft by dangers, and befet vith foes.

Bacon's Effays.

Ile.

guts,

'Ja I'lG. t). «.

JiGfiuMBOB.

Yet never let the noble mind defpair j

in

hall.

As

Who can all fenfe of others ills efcape,
Tate's Jitv.
Is but a brute at beft in human (hape.
Though pluRg'd in ills and exercis'd in care.

Any thing founding ; a rattle; a bell.

juftly.

Dryd.

Misfortune ; mifery.

2.

Vulgar judges are nine parts in ten of all nations,
Drydrn.
who call conceits mi jingles wit.
3.

Bacon,

Strong virtue, like llroog nature, ftruggles ftill.
DrydeHt
Exerts iifelf, and then throws off the ///.

of rhyme.

efTeifis

All the (wains that there abide,

lor the jiggi'Tg part

improperly, to exfound in the

prefs the correfpondence of

Hen Jiitfon.
"V iihyVjf J and rural dance refort.

L"L

a natural motion ftrongeft in continuance.
Young men to imitate all ills are prone ;
But are compcll'd to avarice alone :
For then in virtue's (hape they follow vice.

tertain

Though they be paid to be gone, yet needs will
Dsttne.
Thrulf o[ie moreyVg upon you.
jigI'oftcrity (lull know th«t you dare, in thete

They wrote to her friends

Pofe.

Ji'ncie. tt.f. [from the verb.]

When Cyrus had overcome the Lydians, that were
he
a warlike nation, inticad of their warlike mufitk,
appointed to them certain lafcivious lays and loofe
their couJigs J by which he fo mollified and abated
rage, that tliey forgot their former fieicenefj.
Spenjer in Ireland.

I

In founds ini jingling fyllables grown old 1

Ca-

Jo No'sc

L L

contrariety to
You ne'er v/kYijhgliiig words deceive th« etr ;
| 1. Wtckcdnefs; depravity;
Umilb.
And yet, on humble objeSs, great appear.
holinefs.
What crowds of thcle, inipenitently bold,
///, 10 man's nature, as it ftands perverted, hath

Dangerous conjedlures in ///breeding minds.
Sbak. Hamlet,
I have an ///-divining foul

Methinks I fee thee, now thou art below.
As oile dead in the bottom of a tomb. Sbakefpeare,

No look, no laft adieu before he went
In an /// boding hour to (laughter fent. Dryd. jSn,
I

I

know

The voice /// boding, and the folemn found.
Phillips.

The wifeft prince on earth may be deceived by
the craft of ill defigning men.

Swift's Examiner,

Your /// meaning politician lords,
Under pretence of bridil iricnds and guefis.

;

and deceives him.
Avoid both courts and camps,

Where dilatory fortune plays thtji/t
With the brave, noble, honell, gallant man.

;

Ot^'aji's Orphan.
To throw hcrlelf away on fool*.
a. A name of contempt for a woman.
When love was all an eafy monarch's care,

fllit rul'd the Oaie, and (tatefmen farces writ.
•^

Pope.

To Jilt. 'v. a. [from the noun.] To trick
a man by flattering his love with hopes,
and then leaving him for another.
Tell who loves who ;
And who is jiittd for another's fake.

Shepherds, (hould it not ylhend
Your roundels frefh, to hear a doleful verfe
Of Rofalind, who knows not Rofalind,
That Colin made ? ilk can 1 you tehcaife. Spenfer.

III. adj. fcontrafted from Evil, and retaining all its fenfes.
1. Bad in any refpeft; contrary to good,
whether phyfical or moral ; evil. See

Evil.
Drydi-n.

There fome /'// planet reigns

Tell a man, paflTionately in love, that he ii filttd

mult be patient, 'till the Heavens look
Sbakifp.
With an afpeCt more favourable.
Of his own body he was ///, and gave
Henry'^XW.
Sbakcjp.
The clergy /// example.
Neither is it /'// air only that maketh an /'// feat,
but ill ways, ill markets, and ;'// neighbours.
Bacon's Bjfuys.
Some, of an ill and melancholy nature, incline the
company to be fad and ill-difpofed : others, of a joBacon.
vial nature, difpofe them to be merry.
1

bring witnelfes of the f<ilfchood of his miftrcls, and
three kind words of hers (hall invalidate all their
Locke.
teflimonies.

To Jilt. 'v. n.

To play the jilt

;

to prac-

tife amorous deceits.

She might have learn'd to cuckold, y/Zr, and ftiam.
Congreve.
Had Covent-garden been at Surinam.

To Ji'ngle.

'V.

It.

[A word made from

jatigle, or copied from the found intended

to be expreifcd.]

To clink; to found

with a kind of (harp rattle.
Whatlhould the wars dow/ich thzfeji/igling fools >
Shakefp.

With noifes

Of roaring, llirieking, howling, y/ag/;>g chains.

We were awaked.

Shaktfpcirr'x TempeJI.

The bells (he jingled, and (he wliiftle blew.
fofe.

2.

Sick ;

difordered ;

not

in

I

ht^alth.

know not that e-vil is ever ufed in this
fenfe.

You wi(h me health in very happy feafon ;

Who tlireat'ning cruel death, conftrain'd the bride
To wring from me and tell to them my fecret.
Milton.

A fpy diftingui(h'd from his airy (land.
To

bribe whofe vigilance, .itjilllius toli

A mighty fum of /// perfuading gold.

Pope.

III. adverb.
There founded an ill according cry of the enemies,
and a lamentable uoife was carried abroad.
IVifd. xviii. 10.

My colleague.
Being fo ill sSufXti with the gout.
Benjonf.
Will not be able to be there in potfon.
The examples
Of every minute's inftancc, prefentnow.
Shakrff,
Have put us in thefc ///bcleeming arms.
Lead back thy Saxons to their ancitnt Elbe
the
gift
fruitful
Kent,
the
I would rellore
Drydea.
OfVoitigcrn, or Hengilt's/// bought aid.
:

We limple toafters take delight
To fee our women's teeth look white;
And cv'ry faucy ///bied fellow
Prior.
Sneers at a mouth protbundly yellow.
The ungratciul treafon of her (// chofen hufband
SiHny.
Envy, hjw does it look > How meagre and ///
complexioned ? It preys upon itfelf, and exhaufts the

overthrows her.

fpirits.

,

Collier.

There grows.

^

Shakefp.
For 1 am on the fudden Ibmething ; 7.
1 have known two tow..* of the greatelt conlcquence lo(V, by the governours faUuig ill in 'be lime
Temple.
of the fieges.

III. n. f.

Appointed to await mr: ihirty fpies.

In my moft ///compos'd arteflion fuch

A llauchlefs avarice, that, were 1 king,
I rtiould

cut oil the nobles for their lands.

Sbakejp.

To what end this ///concerted lye.
Palpable and grofs

.»

Drydcni Dvrt Seiafi!."'.
Our

ILL
conditioned creature as ever was.

,

///

Arbuthnot.

No Perlian arras liides his homely walls

With antick veils, «hich, through their (h^dy fold.

iLLAUDABLE.

•

Betray the ftreaks of ill diflembled gold.

Dryd

You (hall not tind me, daughter,

Unworthy

A fter the tlander of molt ftep-mothers,
///ey'duntoyoa.

.

Sbalfftar,',C,mtrl!nt.

i lee thy filier's tears.

audably,

Thy father's anguilh, and thy brother's death,
In the purfuit of our !.' fated loves.

Their tedious lil'c.
Plain and mj^hi nature,

Her thoughts imeiuiTe on the bridal
Behold the truit of /// rewarded

'

itfelf,

better than an artificial ungratefulnefs,

died ways of being /// lalTiioned.

Much better,

is

and fuch ftuLocke

Dryden.
,.
It does not ,belong to the
prieft's office to impofe
this name in baptilm
he may lefule to pronounce
:
the lame, it the parents give
them
,

Near to an old /// favoured caftle they
meant'To
perloi-m (heir unknighlly errand.

ludicrous, filthy,

Ayliffe '
Wfpirited >Vor'ller, did we notfend grace,
'
Pardon and tetm? of love ro all of you ?
Shakcfp
from thy loohrtj heart, rain maid, remove
An ulelcfs lorrow, and an /// ftarr'd love.
Pfior.
Ah, why ih' ///fuiting paltime muft I try ?
To gloomy^care my thoughts alone are free
/// the gay fporU with troubled hearts
agree.

'

as every where they

do, to dclboy/./iormed and
mif-flupcd produclions.

Holding of /// tifted things in
the''^moutl^ «^i
jnake a fmall falivation.
Cre^,
The maid, with downcall eyes, and mute with

The faWed dragon never guarded more
The golden Oeecc, than he his ill got (lore.

f

'

For death urtfinifh'd, and /// tim'd
relief.
Stood fullenlo her fgit,

my friends.

And make good ufe of bis /// gotten power,
IJy (heli'ring men much
better than himfelf.

Vryden's Ovid.

therebeanyfufpicionofintcrcftdr defign, as there
never fails ta be; where men
-find themfeWes ///

Caio.

treated >

Hazard his private and ihe public reft.
Waller.
That knowledge of theits is very
fuperlicial .and

Dryden', Dufrefroy.
///grounded piOlonsquickly wear awav;
What's built u|H>ii efteem can ne'er decay.
H^jljh
llilher, of ///join'd fons and
daughters born,
J'lrft from the ancient
world thefe giants came.
X,

,

.

^at has he erred above once by ///judged

fuper/- ' .L

fluity.

Uid you never tafte delicious drink
out of an ;//
looked velfel?
i'f^r^,^,.

""^

..,1^'"','/',''.'!"?'*" '° "'
fof Plexirtus,
that his ,11 hi life would
have ,„„bled to deftruc^
Hon, had there not come tifiy
to his defence.
/
•n.
Thefe

II. before words

Ii.r.A'cHRyMABLF, aJJ. \illachrymabilis,
Laf.J Incipable of weeping.
Dia

Illa'pse. }!.f. {jUapjus, at.]
I
Gradual emiffion or entrance of one thing
.
I

into another.
°^ '"" '"' •'°^ "7 '•eafon of the
ti^'r * PL'".

i//rf;>/eot the (ire into it,
appears all
lo the fouls of the blefted, by

over like fiiethe HUpfe of the di-

are the produft

Of thofe/// mated marriages thou faw'ft.

vuu: elTence

Where good with bad were maith'd.
I he

Milton
works are weak, the garrifon but thin,

iJilpinted with frequent overthrows,

Already wavering on their

///mann'd walls.

Curb their ///manner'd zeal.
It

z.

Dryden

Lat.J

.

The eternal law of things muft not be

comply with his ///ordered choice.

!

altered. To

a.' [/llajueo.
to entrap ; to en-

;

am ilUjuealeJ, but not truly captivated

S-uifi

» mourn,

There motley images her fancy

public fcorn.
'^^-*'''"

ftrike.

Figures /// pair'd, and (imilies

unlike
Sfarfa has not to bualt of fuch a

Pc •,

woman i
^orTroy to thank her, forher///plac'dlove.
Drydtn

fuf-

u

and Itgalu, Lat.J Con-

trary to law.

No patent can oblige the fubjett againft law, tinlefs an illegal patent palTed in
one

another, and not itfelf.

Illega'lity.

kingdom can bind
Swift

»,/. [frona illegal Contra-

riety to law.

He Wifhed them to confider what »otcj they had
paired, of the ilteguliiy of all ,hofe
commiffions, and
ot the uiijultihablenefs of all the
proceeding by vir.

tueofthem.

Clarendon.

Ille'gally. ad'v. [from ilhgn^
manner contrary to law.
Il l e'c I B L E. adj. [/« and legihilis,

Latin,]

In a

from /,?«.

What cannot be read.

The fecretary poured the ink-boi
writings, and fo defaced them that

all over the
they were made

^^,„,^/_
"'

State of baftardy.

Illeci'timate.

adj.

Lat.J Unlawfully
gotten in wedlock.

[in

and leghimus.

begotten j

not

be-

.Grieve not at your ftate;

^'>lP}^<^^':^<'^Uh illegitimate.
Cleaveland.
Being illegliim,Tte, 1 was deprived of
that endear.

ing tcndcrnels and uncommon
fatisfaftion, which a
good manlirtdsin the love and coiiverfation
of a pa,
'"'•
Addifon', Speaator.
.
,
Illegi'timately. ad'j. [from ilUgiti-

maje.] Not begotten in wedlock.
Illegitima'tion. ». /. [from iUfgiiimale.] The ftate of one not
begotten in

wedlock.
Richard HI. had a refolufion, out of his hatred
td
both his brethren, to difaHe their ilTues, upon
falle
and incompetent pretexts; the one of attainder,
the
ot her of illegilimation.
Bacon

lLLF.'viABLE.r?a'7.. [/e^•^'^ Fr.J What cannot be levied or exafted.
He reflificd the methoj rif collefling his revenue,
and removed obfolete and illeviable parts of cliarte

iLLPA'vouRED. adj.

Deformed.

O, what a world of vile i/iy.vMai':/ faults
Look handlome in three hundred pounds »-year \

II

Sbakeff,

iLLFA VOUREDLY. apl-J.
1. With deformity.
2. Roughly; ruggedly:
in ludicroui
He

(liook

lan-

him ycry

il/fa-vouredly for the time,
raging through the very bowels of his country,
and
plundering all whereloever he came.
Houel.

A Inare; any tlung to catch another: a Illfa'vouredness. »./. Deformity.
noofe.

Illa'tion.

;

[.ains

'

[/«

guage.

penfioB, or pendulous illaauealioa,
but alfo fuffijca-

2.

tail,

into

M.re'i Divine Dialcguel.

ll-LAty/EA'TION. n.J. {Uom iUaqueate
J
1.
Ihe aft of catching or enfnaring.
The word in Matthew doth not only lignify
lion.

Ihan (rom an equal here lulhiin the

Vol. I.

I

Locke

t)rt fly Ihe vijardi.

Better at home n.y ///paid

To entangle

Tbomfon' : fummer.
^..

fnare.

the fcene,

for Phthia hx'd is my return

cafual coming.

yourconclufion.
reach'd his ea^

Who can defcribe ih' amaiement in his face

JWn the ///organ'd engines

;

Of accident difaftrous.
To 1LL.™EATE.

impolTtble lor the moll /// minded,
avaricious, or cunning clergyman
to do theleaft injuftice
Co Che meaneit cottager, in
any bargain for tythes .

VV hen you ejpofe

Sudden attack

By the bold fwimmer in the fwift illapfr

IS

Soon as the ///oraen'd rumour

mto them, rtiall be all over divine.

Life isoftprcfervcd

Dryd.

He will not hear me out
Was ever criminal forbid to plead ?

beginning with /, ftands

tor in.

Sidney.

_

.

.

,

fpirit which lads get
amongft
theirplaytellowsatlchool, has ordinarily
a mixture
of rudeuefs and /// turned
confidence ; fo that tliefe
inilbecoming and diOngenuous
ways of (hifiing in
the world muft be unlearned.
L^cke.

MUion,

.

r

.;:

Thatboldnefs and

.//grotinded.

/

Broome,

•

r

,.
ILLE GAL. adj.

iLLEGt'TiMACY. n.J. [from illfritimate.\
^

How (hould opinions, thus fettled, be given up, if

Addif.
.
„til
Ill
govern .J
d palCons in a prince's breart,

T

al together ,//,-|-/i5/^.

grief,

l>ryd. Jmi.

"

,

or ///founding names.

Sidney.
It a man had 'jut an
/// favo^ted nofe, the deep,
thinkers would contrive io impute
the caufe to the
prejudice of his education.
Stjl^t
I was at her houfe the
hour (he appointed.
.And you fped, llr?

...
n-j him
Bid
employ hi J care for thefe

'

It is n jturalfor all people to f^rm.
not itlaudabh,
too favourable a judgment of their
own country.

Dryden.

pain.

'

•

Shakefp.

Pofie

''"''_'?,"'''

jnucli

when 1 Hnd virtue in a fair lodging, than when I am bound to feek
it
in an ///
tdvoutcd creature, Jikc a pearl in a
dunghill.

-—Very'/// favouredly.
They would not make bold,

worthily ; without deferving praife.'

.

Pr/or
to

day.

Th* god inform 'd
*^P''' '"«'> w'tb a dariug foul.
Drydcx
T here was pleiity enough, but
the difhes were ///
lorted : whole pyramids of
fweetmeals for boys' and
women ; but little of folid meat for men.

'

left

Unp

r

-

Addifon

Others //Alatedarecoodemn'd to toil

L L
,

A.idi/m nn the AKir.,'

"

Thefecond daughter »as a peenlh, froward,

I

I diall direfl you, a talk for
which I take myfelf
rLlA'TIVE.toiS^,-. {Hiatus, lM..\ Relating
rot to be ///qualified, becaufe I
to
have had opportunities to obferve the follies
ilrati(}»» pr coi\c!ulion.
of women.
Srvi/i
Aftions are pleating or difpleafing,
In common dilcfiurfe or writing
either in ihemfuch cafual pal^.
lelves, or confidercd
ticles3s/or, imi/j/i-, mjnileft ttic
as a means to a greater and
afl of leafoning
more delireaWe end: the eating of a
as well as the illative particles
tlien and therefore.
well-fcafoned
ailh.Iuited to a man's palate, may
move the niind,
Sythe del.pht itfelf that accompanies the
eating,
adj.
IHlaudaHlh, Lat.J
•without reference to any other
end ; to which the
of priif- or commendation. '
conlideration of the pleafiire there
is in hoalth and
Strength Irom truth divided,
trength inay add a newguft,
andfromiuft,
able to make us fwallUaudable, nought merit-; but difpraife.
low an ///relilhed potion.
Milton.
Locie
Ill
adi^. [from ilauMJe.'\
Blu(hes,///rcttrain'd, betray

ing them away on any /,';' concerted projech.
i^

LL

rl

Our generals at y refsnt are fuch ai are likely to
make the beli uCe ot their numbers, Without throw-

».

/

Lat.] Inference;
conclufion drawn from premifcs.
r///«//o,

Herein there feems to be a very erroneous
i//.i//o«
Irotn the indulgence of God
unto Cain, concludmi;
an immunity unto himfelf.
LmirK
Illaliun

fn

orders the

intermediate ideas

as to

what conne^lion iheie is in each link
of
the chain, whereby the extrcmei
arc held together.

difcovcr

/,«*f.

ILLI'BERAL. adj. [il/iieraJis.Uu]
1. Not noble
not ingenuous.
:

The charily of molt men

grown fo cold, and
King Charlet.
2. Not munificent; not generous'; fparing.
is

their religion fo illiberal.

Yet fubfllt thrydid, and well too: an .iriniinrnt
that that earth did not deal out iheir nourilliiuciit
Willi an ovi-rlparing or ilsibtrul liand.
H'oiivhtrd.

Ii.i.iijera'lit\.

from il.iieia:.}
6 1

n. J.

{ilULnalitas,

I.

Lat.

Mean-

L^L

I
'j.

*

Weannefsof mind.

a. rariimony ; niggardlinefsi w*lif"6f munificence.

.•\rt not'wiThouta'mbiti6n;

ai.'j

WW

Ili./berally.

The ilhrj\ (hould ahcnd t.

*

[fifom

.^lka';i URE.

'iltiberal.y

Iliiiature

pile chit hii been boimiiiul only upon fiirprizc
«ndincogitancy,//A'^ri-jiV rotrafh.
Dreaj.

'

a<^".

UnUvvfiil;

\4lUcitus,lAt:\lltjc'Ue,

as, anj///V//< (radfc.

To rLLl'GHTEN.

To enlighten

s;.

V.

,'

I bclleAie, only i« Jia/e/gh:

.

i

aii^Jighieft.']

,[i'n

I

.

.

I

"•

be feen in full perfeflion^ but
as all nature is illuminaled by a iingle light.

He made the Ihrs,

'

r

And fet them in the firmament of heav'n,
T' /7Km/»fl/r the earth and rule the night.
Reafon our guide, what can (he more reply

Pfabityally

1.

'

.

roii.s

'

j

ptgopd »iW; mifchievous ; defiof mother's eviL

^e(>

Corporeal fc'ht cannot be, becanfc then it T<ould
not pierce the 1»t, nor dijphiinous todies ; and yet
every day we fee the air iliii^hieiieii.
Ruici^h.

_

h-anting kfndJ

liijife^-olieht ;

:

Thefe ill qiiah'.'cs denominate a pcrfon i7/»ii/Krfi/,
they being ifutiK- ha mafu: 'him grievous and'uncafy
.to aril ^ni^nJie ideals and aObciates faimfelf with.'

Satan had no power to abufe the illuminated world
with liis importure.5.
Sandt's Traveli.
When he illumimtei the. mind with fupcmatural
light, he does notcxtinguifli that which is natur.il.

'

•

Illi'mitable. aJj. [tu and limes, Lat.]
That Which cannot- be- boanded or li-.
.

mited.

•

'? •)-•

:i

Although in adoration of' idoisi unlo the Jbbtilcn
headsj the worDiip perhaps might be fymbolicaljycti
was the idolatry dirofl in the people, whofe t+edu-i
lity i« i!litriti:i/le, and who may be -made to bclicvp
that any thing.i8<5o<J.
iHitwhi
With what an awtul worlJ-rcvolvi»g power,
Were firft th' unwieldy planctslaunch'd along
-The ilUnfti{ble void
Thtm/in'] Summer.

J

^LI.i'mitably.'
'"

[from

., !««//<?,

«.//.

{/«

.'.

r.!i

,2...

;

•-

(.!,,

•

;

•

:'

-South

Slay, (illy bird, th' lUr.Hur'd tafk tefufe;;

Kor.beftWbedna-Dfimwcltome news.

Locke,

.

Addifanl

4.

but oj' thofe illitatartd being^whd
arc avt mtaiity'wiih mankind,, and doiheretbtc take

.'^:.iif.mii,lit :bc

':

'^

My

Atterhuvy

.

P^*/^ applies it *o land.

2.

and

UntratSbblej

not yielding to cnlttire.
The fondly ftudioiis pi" inpi^fei

Illumina'tiok. n.f.

I

Induce.

,

,,

Fr.].lJn:lx)usded; inlermiriabie,

.

|,

I

'

'

j

':'!..

','

i

In a pccvilb.froward manner.

i

2. That which gives light.
- The fun Is but a body illightened, and an illumt-

>

1

!

TlLi'MiTEUNESs. ». Jl [iiom .iliimited.'}
illna'tuKedness. 7t./. [horn il/Matured.]
Exemption from 3II bounds.
Want ofa kindly difpofition.
The abfoluteiiefs
and itlimiudjitfs of his com-i
was generally much rpoJi.eri of.

mnVion

ILl.I'TERATE,

ctJjA

'I

iie

duke was Ulittratr,

court to-fiipptv bis

own

yet

had learned

al

cious co;;hdence, ajirf lefs abilities.

by the drawin]

HBto him of the heft'iijlruments of experience.
flillott!

Th'////Vfr<i/f writer, cmperick like, applies

.,

To minds difeas'd unfatc chance remedies:

;

'

'The leam'd in fchoojs, where knowledje Hrft began.
Studies with care th' anatomy of man.;
Sees virtue, »ic<, »ad paflions in 'thtjr «aufe,
Aud fame l(oin;fcience) mot fropi tbrtun): diViws,
DryJin,

'

,

'

njeri/u "-_,

difchfi^r^zof that facred fun^ion, and i^rcligioii.
^i^fijfe'i I-'.irtrgon.

[from /7/.]
Badiielj or inconveBiccce of onykiad

.iXJ:.NF-,s.
1.

n./.

natural or.moral.

He that has his chains knocked off, and the pri-

Sprat I* 3 Sermtfts.

Illu'minative.

And falfcd oft' his blow, t' ii/ude himvvith fuch bait.

from illuminate,'^

.

liglit,

called

is

h're :

the illjminuiive atflion of (ire, and

what admits

is

not feei\,

When yon fame (tar, that's wclKvard from the pole,

z.

TLriJirt't Summtr.

•

To enlighten

;

]

To confirm his words, out flew
Millions of flaming fwoids, drawn from the thighs
Of mighty cherubims: the fudden blaie
Far round illumifi'dhzW,
What In me is datk.
what is low, raife andfupport !

Illumine',

To decorate

;

Afilton

Miitcn.*

to adorn.

To Cato, Virgil paid one honefHine;

O let my country's friendt illumine mine,

chapters.
illuKinatcrs of manufcripts borrowed their title
from the illumiuation which a bright genius givetli
to his work.
Fclton,

Fr.]

to fupply with light.

Pepe.

.

One whole bufinefs it is to decorate
books with piiflures at the beginning, of

Illtj'sion.

•

'

is

^ig^y t>n Bodies.

called air.

Illumina'tor. «./ [Uom illuminate,']
I .
One who gives light,

Betokens.

Fr.

Having the power to

lo enlighten; to illuminate.

ro 1 L L U M I N E . T. a. [Uliimiiicr. [ t

2.

{illtimiitatif,

What makes ilfelf and other things be (eea, being
accompanied by

,

Illitm'd with fluid gold, his near approach

1.

adj.

give light.

Had made hi; couife, l' illume that part of hcav'n.
Where now it burns.
Sbakjfeare't Ham/tl.
2. To brighten ; to adorn.
The m.juntain's brow,

malady; diforder of health.

Atlcrbuty.
account her majcfty received of the
infalent faillon, during her late ithtfs at
Wind-

attempts '.vhich contradiift the common rules of peace.

he 'hook him

fometimes

To Illu'mf. t;. ff. [illuminer, Fr.]

he had received the facramciit.

Since the

athwart,

,

<)n the Lord's day which immediately preceded
his illnrjs,

Baton.
_
No holy palGon, no iUuminatism,
no infpiration,
can be now a fufficient commiirmn to warrant thofe

.

J^airy i^c.v/.

fon-doors fit open, isperfedlly ai liberty, though his
preference be deici mined to ftay, by the /V/wf/t of the
weather.
Lxi^.

2. Sicknefs;

To de-

In vain we meafure this amaring fphere.
While itscircHmferencCj fcornfng to be brought
Ev'n into, fancy'd fpacc, iliuJit our vanquifii'dl
thought.
fii'.r^

1.

The more ufual caufes of this deprivation ate
want of JiMy orders, iiliur.Uiiie, or inability for the*

;

flrait.

Jity/t-1

ufed.

_;

Hoi>ker.

We have forms of prayer imploring Cod's aid
and blefling for the /7/i.w/>/7.'/3// of our labours, and
ttht tHriiing them into goood and holy ufes.

tomock; to impofe on; to play

Sometimes

SxoiaiUeiUiltrutmc/i andimpoft«rc5 of tliofe
that pivicud (kill in it, ciueriaincd an ill opinion of:

Ili.i'ti;RATURE. ;/. /. [in irni /iUr/i/u'ri:]'
Want of learning. A word not mut:^i

,

[il/udo.lM.]

a.

Infuiion of intelleftual light; knowledge or grace.
iiymns and pfalms are fuch kinds of prayer as arc

infpired.

upon 5 to torment by fome contemptuous

fcave,

•

,

1'.

Dryden*

,,tW)tconccived upon a fudden; but framed by mcd;talion beforehand, or by prophetical illuminaiion are

artifice of mockciy.

•

J[j,LITERATENtSS. n. /. [from iHilcrate.]
''. j'Want of learning;
ignorance of fcience.
.11Many a'cjMainted v/ith chyr.iiltry b'lt by report,

'•'« •".'

..

Illu'de.

ceive;

,

.,

5.

Ifalion.

Il.Lo'ciCALLY. adv. [from illogical.^ Jn
a manner contrary to the law? of argu-

Jn the lirrt ages of Chriftianily not only the learn-'

.a(Ji5 autl l,hc (Wiftt, but the ignorant and iUiicrate era-'
Tiraccd wrirtcijis and death.
Titlutjot!,

And windows with ;V//^w;V;d//o«jgr.ac'd.

2. CoBthtryto'the rules of reafon.
Reafon cannot difpule and make an Infermce fo
utterly illu^ical.
Deciy of Piety.

7"o

Raleigh's Hiji^ry.

Feftal lighu hung out as a token of joy.
Flow'rs are ftrew'd, and lamps in order plac'd,

^
4. Brightnefs ; fplendour.
The illuminators of manufcripts borrowed their
title from the illumination which a bright geniua
givetJ) to his work.
Felion.

reafonirigi
'One of the d'HTcrrters appeared to Dr.Sanderfon
fo bold and ///-;^;«/rn the difpute, as forced him to
fay, he had ucVer met with a man of more pertina-

unlearned; un-

deled;,

ffaticn crcittd.

3.

Illo'gical, adj. [ill and logical.1
1. Ignorant or negligent of tha rules of

Xnt.}

iljir.ratus,'

Unlettered; uiitau^t;
enlightened by fcience.

Latin;

The ad of fupplying with light.

t.

.fhtlipsl

'.

[Fnrii iJIna/ured.i

ad'v'.'

[illumiaatio,

illumination, Fr. from tlluminate.^

Rich foreign mold on their VJnafuridXxni.

and //>/7f/, iat. i////-j
'ri.r.NA''Tij'REDLY.

To inuftrate.

health is infufficient to amplify thefe remarks,
to illuminate the feveral pages with variety of
examples.
lyattt.

'
i

To adorn with pifturcs or initial letters
of varioiis colours.

5.

.pleafure intiliiiij daefn iv«th groundlefs terror.?,

iL!tmUqhte.'\-

VVithourfufccp'tibiiity ofl^Qiin^?.'

iLti'MiTjD.
I

v«ft^.'

M

:

.

•

,

,

Milt,

Than thit the fnn ilhiminates the (ky ;
Than that nigh; rife-, from hisabfent ray.
And his refirning liiftie kindles day ?
Pficr,
2. To adorn with feftal lambs or bonfires.
3. To enlighten intellctSuaJly with knowledge or grace.

I

/7/«?i'«'>^<'.]

Speiifer.

No painting can

Ha-

iialureA

want of humanity.
man to tliofc aflionj that

A word,' III na'tur r n. ^./•. ffrom

to illuminate.

;

Fr.],
"

'

and

^ili

incliticsia

Do thou vouchfafe, with thy love-kindling light,
T' illuminate my dim and dulled eyn.

Shai/ptare.

thwart and iburand.'diftiffb convcifation, and con
fills of a pronenels to dorill turns, attended with a
fccret joy upon the tight of any milihief that befals
jabothcr, landof an uttertnlienfibiHty of any kiiidncfs
'.,
-,:.•
'doRt him.,
'South:

'

iLLi'clT^

K./.

bitual malevolence;

Difingcnuoufly; meanly.
^

1.

b(it witliout

i

them with Ajtn

To enlighten; to fupply with light.

,

and

a. l!Uumi»er. Pr.

lumen, Lat.

"

'

Tht <//;^rt.j/(jy of parents, in allowance toward?
their children, is' an Isarmful erroir,

To ILLU'MINATE. 1:

"Wickednefs.
Thou *-ou1d be great

•3.

r;..

I

L L

I

<ht ?ia(h been willing to fee them deprivej of
pwwet to do mifchief.
.
Svi'ijl.,

for,

n.f.

Mockery;

\illiij!s,

falfe

appearance ; errour.

Latin;

iilujicn,

Ihow; counterfeit

.

That, diltiU'd by magick flights,
Shall r.iilc fuch artificial fprights.
As, by ihe ihcngih of their ilUjion,
Shall draw hiinou to his confulion.
Sb.akrfp.
There wanted not fome about him that would h.ive

perfuadeJ him that all was hunnilLjion.
So oft they (ell
Into the fame illujion ; not as man.

Bacon.

Whom they criump h'd, once lapt'd.

Milton.

Aa

M

I

.'rivi-A

An-excufe for uncharitablenefs, drawn
from pretended inability, is of all others the
moll general prewiling ,//^.„
^^lurily.

Im

commonly, in compoCtion I
2. Show; appearance.
for ,n before mute letters.
What is im
Things of tlie world
the imaginative part wit!»
m Latin, when it is not negative, is beauties
and fantaftick,W^„:y.
TuyU
often em in French and our
wi,atcanthy/ma^,y,offorrowmeanJ.
witers, as

Many are the t!/u_fiont by which the enemy endea-

vours to cheat men into ^curily ,

fill

and defeat their

"'""on-

;

Rcgas

"^

We mult ufe fome ////^.;w to render a paftoraUeand

this confiils

only of a Ihtphcrd's

life,

feries.

in

more common, and now em

expofing the beft fide

prevail.

and ia concealing its mi*
„ ,

I'MAGE.

I

,

Illu'sory.
Latin;

[from

adj.

illufaire,

The one is too like an im:,ge, and fays

Blacknnre^

,

in

and

French.]

Sfn\g.

Deceiving;

I.

K.

\ilh.jiro, Latin

To bear hi, image an.l renew his glories
And llv'd by looklngon his imagti:

Matter to me of glory I whom their

hate

To explain

4. Sttiiblance:
weary.

tion; expofiiion.
It is feldom ufed in
original figni/ication
for material
brightnefs.
Uhotver looks about him will find many
living
illuftrauotit of this emblem.
VEfltanrr
Space and duration, being ideas that
have fomc-

ence to action.
ill-fir,,

1-rench.]

Confpicuous;

noble;

eminent for cxcrllence.

drawn

"fev'/j nation, cacli;7/«^r/.w
name.
Such toy, as thofe have cheated ir;o

fjime.

He difdained not to appear at fellivjl
».n« ihathe might more iUuJlnouJlj, cnfmain-'
ma. iferthis

You carrying wi.b vou all the world

To all the warld illuJrio„Jly >„ )m.

can boall

>^

Ii.iii>TK,ou5.v,5s. „./. [from
///.>;i,,.]
hininence; noliliiy grandeur.
;
T M. Contradkcdfrom / um.

the

[from the noun.]
to

prcfcnt,

be

O

W Inch crU my eyes beheld, and yet behold

voice

I'or dire im.^giMiia ftill

''''

^

I

.

2.

,,fg,-j(.fj

Scnfible rcprcfcnta^ions.;

Ol marbltf ftonc was cut

pur.'-ucs me.

Where beams o( warm itiughnlirja play,
The memory's foft figures melt a*.iy.

p,-..^

lMAc.iiK>,».y: [fronirW,.]

AtiftoK*
"

'

/><w„.

.

Conception; image in the mind;

idea*.*
Sometimes delpir darkens all he,
i„:aHt,a,ro„..

S/"7'

'

piaurcs ; ftatdes.

P'inc«havebuttheirti.tlcs?brthcirgloiies,'

An outward honour for an inwal-i toll.;
AnJ, forunfelt/W/;/>;a//o)rj,

An .iliar carv'd with cunning imagery.
when in thofe oraiotiea might you Ice

They often feel a w'>rld of reltlcfs cares.

Where ev'ry figure to the life estprcfsM

So rtiould my thoughts be fever'd

Siak

Belter 1 were dirtraa,

Rich carving;, portraitures, and i.nagay;

•

from my gricj& •

And woes, by wrong /w<7ifM.,r/o»/, lolfc
The knowledge of themlelv^.

The godhead's pow'r.

^.ir,Je^,Mn.

'

I

fomctimes;the»ilivepaaion of love cheers
and cle-ri
her invention.

•

Dryi,„', Knigbi', Tale
Your gilt Ihall two large goblets he
O. mvcf , wrought with lutieus
imarerf.
Aniliiihc^ibBf..^

when we

fancies prefenti

whubrt Ihall I run, or which wayfly
Ilictightof ihHfohorridfpeaacle,

^ '"'

tg mine,
ye^'iuabfence to deplore,
'•ishcmullbclioWnomoie. PttK
^'

:

y

IS

oi/i

'

,
A:.

power of reprcfenting thin<*8

fenfe; if abfent, imagi„aticn
:
w.uld perceive a material objcrt,

no no^

..

forming ideal pic-

the

n

'Io

am fuch Umig, wl«r«o/ we can have,V;.wrf,

,..,-.1

ima'-

//«|-/™,M I underftand lobe the reprefentatign.
of an individual thought.
Imagin.:,iJ,, 01 three
kinds • joinea with belief of
that which is to c*me :
joined with memory of that
which is paftj and of
thing, pelqHt, or as if
they were prefcnt: for I
coiuprehend .11 this imugi.ation
feigned and at
plcifure, as It one Ihould
imagine fuch a man 'to
be II. the vellmcnts of a
pope, or to have wings.
Bacon,
r
.
Our fimnle
apprehenfioii of corporal objea.-,
if

to imagine.

Of heav B, when firH it ihunder'd.
'^'[e/ome future bud fhall join,
f.,,1

AJJifon

S"'at,0N,ht. iramimngine.]
Fan-cy; the power of
tures;

Prion

"

DryJ

Confpicooufly ; nobly; eminently.

in

I.

Siaifpeare

Image to thy miad

J,,

iLtu'sTRTowsLY. „d^, [fr^m
illufirioL]

imaginary ills and landed tortures >

How our forefathers to tlie Stygian (Iiadei

j-^^^^

Skiieji

abfent to one's felf or others.

Hi, ear oil frighted wi,h the irnag'J

dcr.vcd Iromihingsfjcred.

enchants my fenfe.

iMAGiNAfrioK. «./.{imagi„a,io, Lat.

OryJen'tMn.

How arc immat:ri.I f„bu+nc<s

retc-

L^r;

J,hn.

Hati,

which

t

afcribcd.

oue tl.oul

;

i

Why wilt ihon ndJ, to all the griefsTfuiff-er,^''^'

rand angles; but tUeimage, or
feolible idea, we cannot dilhi^uiih by fai.cy from (he
image oi x fi'ure"
that has nine hundred angles.

hitroglvrhicallv,

lii:.j,,u.

That

:

orgroat t

u,

ILLU'STRIOUS. .^^

'

When we fncak of a figure of a ihouCnd
ancles,
we may have a clear ijca of the number

a.

//w^/^ar,..

:

Th' imaginary relifh is fo fweet.

!

rv.

exifting

''''Jf^re.

Expeflation whirls me round

,

here at laige.

I'.s(ACF..

from

Fr.

Shaiefp.ar,', Ki„g

a pidurc

copy by the fancy

[imaginaire,

Falfe furrow's eye.

Uutcalts ot mortal race can we
conceive
<Imag, of aug)K Jelighuul, folt,

To

Bacon.

^

Which, for things true, weeps things

be.

The/ofd^^ofihejeft

ill„Jj,a.

and wot wiih

mind ;

„
ad,,

•mag.ufc.l^
Fancied; vifionary;
qnly in the imagination.

!

.

I'll fliew you

ui.io ih-

lliujlrati-utlj,

.

Fortune.is nothing elfe but a
power /™W„^ry,,<;
which the fuccoflos of human
aaicns^ and"^ endeavours were for their variety

.,

.

to the
fancy.

They play much upon the fimile, or
ilhl!vath,c
irgumcntation, to induce their enihymemes

Thing, are many times delivered

We

,
An Idea; a reprcfenfation
of any thint>

.

Illu'strative. ndj. [from i!!„Jlraie.\
Having the quality of elucidaiing
" or
clearing.

mciihoijcally,

Jmagining; forming ideas.

r., i'_
IMAOIHXXY

appears.

3.

5,^-°

will enquire what the
for^e of imasination'is
eidier upon the body .W^/.;«,
or^u^rr.hej

Siaakefh '

!

The face of things a frightful image bears,
Andprefcnt death in various forms

th;ng very abflrufe and peculiar in
their nature, the
comparing them one with another
may ptrhars be
'
otulc for their i//x//?ra//5<r.
/^^<,

iLLu'STRATIVEtY. aJv. [from
tivf.]
By way of explanation.

houfe.

The, mag.-s of revolt.
1 his IS the man Ihould do the bloody
deed
The image 0/ a wicked heinoiu fault

Its

brought to

Drydtn.

.

Lives in his eye

will be

from

S™teft darknef, ,V.,ff;„..^/,
retVin'f
f 'r"°
retain
fome fenfe
and awe of a Deity.
T///w/»,
1 MA c I N A NT.
aJj. [imaginnnt.
French.]"

Mere fetches.
Staie/peareS Ki^g tear

llustra'tion. ». /, {ilhiJlratioH, Fr.
from illujiraie.] Explanation; elucida-

not !m.;g;„aile that men

obey wh.t ihey cannot erteem.

(how; appearance.

They have travell'd .ill night

i/UJiraic matters of un_

D„„

deniable truth.

It IS

Deny to fpeak with me? They'ie lick,
they're

to clear; to elucidate.
Authors take up popular conceits, and
from tra-

[imagtttable. Fr.
Poflible to be conceived.

wtagitte.]

Soakrfp

Or not the maker's image, or be free.

;

dition unjuftihablc, OTiMt.,

goodT""

IMAGINABLK.^^-.

DryJ„

death,

He made us to bis fwujr all agree:
That image is the foul, and that mull

Milton.

P""!'-

X-l
IheeOieenroll'd hergancr'd knighu among,
llli-Jlr.iung the n«ble lilt.
Phitlipi.

5.

thicg

Butnovrtwo mirrours of his princely femblance
Are crack -d in pieces by malignant death.

lllujiratcs, when they fee all regal
pow'r
'" "•= '° 1"«" 'l^'if

have bewept a worthyhufband's

J

To brighten with light.
To brighten with honour.

men

defcnbed upon the mind.
""> "" '" '^' *»=" "^ -«-« rf

Long may'lt thou live.

Fr.]

'

as mufing

+V

A copy; reprefentation; likenefs. Chron,

;'

^

t

dream which he faw; the ,V.,-

_
Aneriur,.
.^Pf^'^"fat'on3 "1 writing; fuch
d'cicrmtions as force the
image.of the

Mjtt

a falfe god.

;

imlgT."

'.''^

Manaffch fet the carved image in God's

Locke

To ILLU'STRATE. -v. n.
ilhiftrer,

An idol

2.

ideas;

'"='^''"-*°'"'' '^n^y. f'^ch
iiltike
milbke f"
for a reality.

notliin?

melefs,
Becaufe I could not boaft o( imaget.

make profeffion to teach or

defend truth, hath palfed for a virtue:
a virrue indeed, which, confifting for the
mod part in nothing
tiut the fallacious and
///i/si v ufeof obfcure or dc.
ceitful terms, is only fit to
make men mote conceited
la their Ignorance.

It might be a mere

Even like a ftony image, cold and numb.
Shahrp.
-nt.mageoi a deity m.iy be a proper objeS for
that
which IS but the imagcof a roligion.
South.
Still mult I be upbraided with
your Iin«}
But your late brotherdid not prize

luforiu,,

Forms of the fancy,- falfe
nary phantafms.

VA.i/-^
'•^

Thy brotlier I,

_

appear,

3.

\
and the other too like my lady'i
oldeft fon. ever-

more talking.

fraudulent.
Subtilty, io thofe who

to

imoso.
"

ufedofftatues; a llatue; apifture.
Whofc is this im.igt and fuperfcription.

eiprelh

While the fond foul

French ;

PnV.

of the profpea, thepaim
and ,.«^.._, ,h,, ,„„ii,j
„„^ fences, fade and'^dif"
I

[image,

». /.

all its care.

'°/""=°"-J°y. '» hope orfear?

All .T'
All
the vifionary beauties

Any corporeal reprefentation, generally

I.

TTie heathen bards, who idle
fables dreft,
Itlufive dreams in myftick forms
-,., ..

feenis

Latin.]

iLivsiYt. ad/\ [from illu/us, Latin.] Dcceivin_f by falfe (how.

Wrapt in gay virions of unreal bliG,
Sun paints Ih- iilufive (arm.
Tbimfin't

Secluded from the world, and

the Latin or French occurs
to their
minds, ufe im or em: formerly im
was

I <:''''« my wiUing eyes
,. '^r^"*'"^ °""
Ye roftf//»yfOTx, de^r deceits, arilc!
Pop^.

Iightliji;

,tI:M'A

ufed

is

j

VU,,mag!„ai!o„s wiTep/feh as iiltt
as

;

bold and itr.inr.
°
.
,,

-

•
.

3. Contrivance; fchemc.
' ^ *

J

'

Slviefi,.

tli'ey

we'ri

/ ""-f"

Venim,

'
Tho.

1MB

I
t>am. iii. 6o.

•

which imaginalioK, the iJca

to

fpacc, 6t

Itads il».

itfclf,

It is

of^

r Lorke.

To IMAGINE, -v.

a',

French;

To fancy

to paint in the mind.
;
Look whjt notes and garments he doth give thee,

Bring them, I pray thee, with /wa^/nVfpeed.

"

•To Imbi'tter, 'V. a.
1.

'i'o

make bitter.

^lo

deprive of pleafure;

A weak and in^rle<fl rule argueth imbccilily and
Honker.
No ;Wff;7//y of means can prejudice the truth of
Hooker.
Cod
promifc
of
herein.
the
We that are llrong mul^ bear the imheciliiy of the
Htoker.
impotent, and not pleafcojrfelves.
Thatwjy we are contented to prove, which, being
the worfe initfelf, is notwiihllandipg now, by realon
•f common imbecility, the httcr and likelier to be
Hooker.
b rooked.
Strength would be lord of imbeciily.
And the rude (on would ftiike his father dead.
Shakjpeare.
Imiecillty, for fet and age, was fuch as ihey

^.

Hroivn.

Commidions, pcnjuiCites, and bribes.

Sv/ifi,

iJumin'd wide,

Thompn't Autumn.

;

The Father infinite.
By whom in blit's imtifom'di^t the Son.

An opening cloud reveals
With robcsof light.
Though alTiduity in the mod

Drydtn.
fixed cogitation be

immaterializcd fpirits, yet is it moie
than our imbodied fouls can bear without lalUlude.
trouble

to

Glanv. Sccffis.

To bring together into one mafs or company

to incorporate.
1 by vow am fo imbodied yours.
That (lie which marries you mull marry me.
Never fincc created, man
;

Shak.

To admit to the heart, or to affeftion.
But glad defire,

his late im' ofjm'd^ut^.

Yet but a babe, with milk of fight he nurlV,

Sidney*

Who glad t' imhofom his aflc£lion vile.
Did ail fhe might, more plainly to appear.

[from

F. ^,

To in-

bou/ii/.]

to fliut in.

That fweet breath.

Could merit more than that fmall infantry
~
Milton's Parudift J^ofi.
Warr'd on by cranes.
Aiiltun.
Under their head imbody'd 2X\\t\o\\t.
Then Claufus came, who led a numerous band
Of troops imbodied, from the Sabine land.
Dfydtn's /E.n.

To inclofe.

Improper.

In ihofc ftrata we fliall meet with the fame metal
or mineral /m^c^/W in (lone, ur lodged in coal, that
IVoodtvard.
clfcwherc we found in marie.

To I M BODY. 1). ». To unite into one mafs;

vault.
Prince Arthurgave a box of diamond fure,
lmbov;ed with gold and gor^^eous ornament.
F. ^,
Imbo^ved wtu^iows be pretty retiring places for
conference; they keep both tlie wind and fun off.

Let my due feet never fail
To walk the fludious cloiller's pale.

And love the high imbotved roof.

and imbrutes,

'till

fhe qiitc lofc

The diyinc f ro,ertj ol her lirfl being.

Milten,

vault.

The roof all open, not fo much as any imbotw
ment near any of the walls left.

Ba-cn,

To Imbow'er. 1;. a. [from icat^T.] To
cover with a bower; to (helter with trees.
And flouping thence to Waa'simbo-wering walks.
In fpotlefs i^eace retired.
'Ihomfon.

To Imbr a'kc L E. f. a.
word.

To intangle. A low

They're catch'd in knotted law, like nets;
In which, when once they ase imbrangied.

The more they ftir, the more they're tangled.
Hudibras,

1'mbricated.

[from />«^rf;ir, Latin.]
Indented with concavities ; bent and hol<3tij.

lowed like a roof or gutter-tile.

Imbrica'tion. n.f. [^imbrex, Latin.] Concave indenture.
All

is

guarded with a well-made tegument, aneat imbrications, and many other

domed with
fineries.

Derbam,

To Imdro'wn. t). a. [from broian.\ To
make brown i to daikenj toobfcure; to

The foul grows clotted by contagion,
Ipibodies

Sbak,

To Imbo'w. v. a, [itom honu.] to arch; to

With fublle cobweb cheats

Met fuch imbodied force, as nam'd with thefe,

4,.

Thomfon,
z.

Imbo'wment. n.f. [from /mistt;.] Arch;

An hcav'nly form imbody'd, and array*d

3.

And fpiry towns by furging columns mark'd.

With antick pillar malTy proof.

real.

no

Milton,

Villages //»'o/&OT*i/foftin trees.

Bactit,

to coSlefce.

Th* dewy-fkirled clouds imbibe the fun.
%, To admit into the mind.

To exafperate.

To condenfe to a body.
2. To inveft with matter; to make corpo-

French.]

The torrent meic'ilefs imiibes

them 01 their iharc in the

i .

When a man was fallen, and had abandoned his
primitive innocence, allrange ;'miff///yi immediately
If-iodward.
Iciacd and Ijid hold of him.
yi IMBl'BE. T.^. [imliiio,Litia; imbiifr.

warm water imhibeth moie

I

Which was imbounded in this beauteous chy.

To I.mbo'dy. "ii. a. [from boJj.l

King Charles.

<oldi forjfmuih as the
•f the fait.

make un-

Adji/bn's I'rechoider.
happiuefsof the community.
Is there any thing that more imbilters the enjoyStuih.
ments of this life than (hame ?

•ould not lift up a hand agaiolt them.

A pot of alhes will receive more hot water than

To Imbo'som. -u. a. [from b/cm]
To hold on the bofom to cover fondly
.
with the folds of one's garment ; to hide
under any cover.

clofe;

to

Let them extinguilh their paSions which iwbittcr

imperfci^lion.

Todr'iikin; to draw in.

their prince and country out of the common forms.

'ro Imbo'und. a;, a.

happy.
their lives, aiid deprive

Imbeci'lity. ». /. [imiecl/ite, French.]
Weaknefs ; feeblcnefs of mind or body.

[from bitter.']

2.

appropria-

Princes muft in a fpeciil manner be guardians of
pupils and widows, not luffcring their pcrfons to be
epprcfled, or their ftates imbeciled.
Taylor's Rule cf living holy,

attempt theferviccof

in great exigencies of flate, to

A

drop of oil, let fall upon a flieet of white
paper, that part of it, which, by the imbibition
of the' rnjuor, acquires a greater continuity and fome
tranl'parcncy, will appear much darker than the tell
many of the incident beams of light being now
ttanfmitted, tliat otherwil'e would be refleded.
Boyle.

Lat. imbecile,
wanting ftrength

unjuft

Sii.ikrfp.

was the more imboldened, becaufe I found I h.t4
IhydeK.
a foul congenial to his.
• Nor
flight was left, nor hopes to force his way ;
Imbolden'd by defpair, he flood at bay.
Dryden,
Their virtues and fuperiorgenius/'/w^o/i/fffrf'*/ them,
I

Biicon.

tions.

1.

Bacon.
without

Heat and cold have a virtual tranfition,
comiiTunication of fubllauce, but in moilture not
and to all madefadtion there is required an imbibition.

Bacm.

or

this uiifcalisned iiitrufion.

Swift.

corporation.

[imlecilts,

expences

Sbakfp.
think mylclf in better plight for a. lender than
you arc, the which hath fometliing imholdtned me to
I

\imbihiliou,

Moft powders grow more coherent by mixture of
water than of oil: the reafon is the congruilyol bodies, wliich maketh a perfeder imbibition and in-

one (hould point in fuch a place of a garter that was
held' up; and ftill he did it, by firll telling the
imtgi/ter, and after bidding the aSor tltink.

deftine

*Tis necelVary he fhould die :

Nothing im oldens tin fo much as mercy.

in.

forms ide^s.
The juggler took upon him to know that fiict an

To Imbe'ch.f. -v. a. [from the adjeftive.
This word is corruptly written emLezz,le.'\
To weaken a ftock or fortune by clan-

to confidence ; to encourage.

Arbu!hnot.

mifchievous device.
^. xxi. 11.
Ima'giner. »./. [from ;OT/7f»w.] One who

Fr.J Weak ; feeble ;
of either mind or body.

To Imbo', DEN. 1;. ei. [from ioJ,i.] To raife

Ne-u.'ion.

n. f.

Not now in ufe.
-

Fr. from
imbibe.} The ad ot fucking or drinking

Imbibi'tion.

They intended evil againfl thee, they Imagined a

adj.

with

iiiove

Knit all his forces, and *gan foon unbrace,
His grafping hold.
Fairy ^eetr.

Saltsare Ihong imbibers of fulphufeous fleams.

To fcheme to contrive.

Jmbe'cile.

to

hot liquor in a

like

The knight im'i^oiting\r\ his haughty heart.

drinks or fucks.

Jinity of number, in which we can come to no end
Locke.
of addition?

2.

To ex-

/'o//.]

With uhofe repronch and odious menace.

'

metallickfalt.

agitation

caldron.

Imbi'ber. »./. [({omimhibe.'\ Th.it which

Shahfp.
Prefcnt fears
Shahfpearr.
Are lefs thin horrible /«/a^/«/'*g».
What aie <5ur ideas of eternity and immenfuy
but the repealed additions of certain ideas oi int'igined parts of duration and expanlion, with the in-

violent

Metals, corroded with a little aciJ, turn info ruft,
which is an earth tatlelefs and indilfolvable in water;
and this earth, imbibed with niorc acid, becomes a

imaginor, Lat.]

\,

[from

to cfFervefce;

cftuate ;

To

I

{imnginer,

n.

t>.

JLicke.

Ponverfation with foreigners enlarges our minds,
idi ftr^'thrm frte from many prejudices we are ready

IVistts.
to imbibe concerning them.
tion..
This
drench; tofaturate; to foak.
Witches are imtginativt, and believe oft times 3.
Harm.'
they do tiui: which ihcy do not.
fenfe, though unufual, perhaps unexamLay feilcrs and rellraiols upon the imngirjtive
pled, is neccffary in Englifh, unlefs the
and fantaflick p.irt, becaure our f.incy is uluatly
word imtue be adopted, which our wriplcafed with the entertainment of IhaJows and gauds.
Taylor's Rale cf living holy.
ters fecm not willing to receive.

'

To Imbo'ii..

1

.Jma'ginative. rtiijf. \tmag)nnt'f, Fr. from
'^
imagine. \ Faiitaulck ; full cf imagina-

'•;

tocke.

f

ti.iKtmr.nd.

noteafy for the mind to put off Ihofe confufed
notions and prejudiccs'il has imbibed from tullom.

^

ally bou.KHefs ;

'

|<t»*ifc«.

We are apt tolhink that fpjcc, in itfclf, i» aflu-

MB

and another idea of white from another fnow to-day*
put together in your mind, imbody and run iniodne.

to contain i^njr thing but

which th?y^will not•'allpw

An unfolid or f^mcifiil opinion.

4.

I

The idea of white which fnow yielded yeftcrd y»

Thofe, that hive imbibed this error, have extended the influence of this belief to. ths wliole gofpel,

Thou haft fecen all their venguoce, and »M their
imaginations agjiiitl mp.

M B

M-lttn-

cloud,

Whtrt

I

M

I

ImiroiLH'J'h^ noonuJe bow'rs.
The foot grows black, that was with

copied.

Afihon,
dirt im-

And in tliy rocket giiigling Ba'"pence found.

2.

To Imbrv'e. v. a. [rrom in and hru:.'\
to wet much or
to foak
1. To fteep;

The charadlers of men placed

To I'm TATE. V.

Of mighty vitlor--, with vide wounds tmbru*d.

1.

I

Po{,e.

A

good man chufes rather lo pafs by a verbal injury than imbru«h\% hands in blood.
Clur:Jftt,

pour ; to emit moillure. Obfolete.
Some bathed kilTes, and did oft imbrue
The fugar'd liquor through his melring lips. F. Q,
To Imbru'te. -v. a. [from brute.'\ To
degrade to brutality.
1, who erft contended
With gods to fit the higheO, am now conftrain'd

This handappear'd alhlning fword to wield.

And ihatfullain'dan imitated (hield. Dryden's j^n.
To purfue the courfe of a compofition.
3.
fo as to u^e parallel images and examples.
For ihame

I

what imitate an ode

Imita'tion. a. /.
ti

[«w//c//i', Latin ;

The ad of copying

Since a true knowledge of nature gives us pleaimiiaiicn of it, either in poetry or

fure, a lively

mudl produce a much greater i for both
thefe arts are not only true imitations of nature,
but of the beft nature.
Diyden,
painting,

A method of trandating loofer than pa-

3.

Latin.]

raphrafe, in which
illuftrations are

modern examples and
ufed for ancient, or do-

The foul grows clotted I^ contagion,
ImbodiesanJ imiruiei, 'lilt (he quite lofe
1 he divine pto^rty of her hrtt being.
Milton.
ToImbu'e. f. a. [irnbuo, Latin. This

word, which feems wanting in our language, has been propofed by feveral writirs, but not yet adopted bv the reft.
Imlu, French, the participial adj. is
only ufed.] To tinduredeep; to imbibe or foaic with any liquor or die.
would render this Ireatife intelligible to every
rational man, however little verfed in fcholallick
I

among whom 1 espetl it will have a
than among thofe that arc deeply

fairer pallage,

imbued with other principles.
Digby.
Clothes which have once been thoroughly imbued
with black, cannot well afterwards be dyed into
lighter colour.

Bryte.

Where the mineral matter is great, fo as to take
ibe eye, the body appears imbued and tiiiftured w ith
the colour.
H^ctJvard.

Imbu'rse.

-v.

a.

[bour/f,

To ftock with money.

French.]
'1 his fliould be

tmburff, from emloiirfer, Fr.

Imitabi'i.ITV. ft. f. [imilnbilit, Latin.]
The quality of being imitable.
According to the mnUitjrioufnefs of this imiiafoare thepollibiliiies of being.

I'm I TABLE, ndj.
blt, French.]

[imitabilii,

Nurrlt.

Latin; imita-

Dia..

[/« and OTflr//fl/.]

Not

warlike.

My pow'rs are unfit,
MyMi imm.triial.
To Imma'sk. 11.

a.

.

Chapman' t Odyjfey.
Sjit

and majk.^

To

corer; to difguife.
1 have cafes of buckram for the nonce, to Immajk.
our noted outward garments. .9i6«,{i^/.<'ar'j Henry Vi.
Immatj;'ri AL. adj. \immaleriel, F"rench; /»
and materia. Latin.]
I. Incorporeal; diftinft from matter ; void,
of matter.
Angels are fpirits immaterial and intelleiaual, the
glorious inhabitants of thofe facred palaces, where
there is nothing but light and immortality ; no-

meltick for foreign.
In the way of imitation, the tranflator not only
vuies from the words and fenfe, but forfakes them

(hadowof matter for tears, difcontentmenis, griefs,and uncoraforuble paffions to work upon; but ail

as he fees occafion ; and, taking only fome general
hints from the original, tuns divifion on tlie ground-

joy, tranquillity, and peace, even for ever and ever,,
tlowell..
Hool<er..

work.

As tlien the foul a fubftance hath alone,
Bclides the body, in which Ihe is confined

Drydcn.

I'lun ATIVE. adj. [/W/a/Auw, Latin.]
1. Inclined to copy; as, Manis an /W/<2.'/ii<-

So h.ilh Jhe not a body of her own.
But is a (pint, and immaterial miud.

being.

This temple, lefs in form, with equal grace.
Was imilaiiie of the firft in Thrace.
Dryden.

One that copies another; one

Fr.]

that en-

deavours to refemble another.
Imiiaten are but a fervile kind of cattle fays the
DryJtn.
adj. [immacu/atui, Latin

pott-

Immaculate,

;

immacule, French.]
1. Spotlefs ; pure ; undefiled.

To keep

this

commandment immaculate and

blamclefs, wai to teach thegofpelot Chiill. Hooker.
His wolds are bonds, his oiili? are oracles

His love fiiiCeie, his thoughts iamaculjtc.

Shaltefp.

Davies.

No man that owns the exigence of an infinite
fpiritcan doubt of the puflibility of a finite fpirit;
that is, fuch a thing as is immaterial, and does not

Formed after fome original.

Lmita'tor. tt. /. [Latin; imitaleur,

;

Thofe immaterial felicities we expefl, fuggelt the
necefiity of preparing our appetites, without which
heaven can be no heaven 10 us.
Decay of Piety.

an imi, alive art.
3.

Unfading.

Imma'rtial. adj.

imila-

;

Bar-

barity; fav.igenefs.
It was both impious and unnatural.
That fuch immanity and bloody llrife
Should reign among piofeffors ot one faith. Hhak-ff.
Immarce'ssible. adj. \in and marcejco,

n, French.]

attempt to refemble.
2. That which is offered as a copy.
!.

mi manif'Ji.'] Not

Imma'nity. ti. /. [immani.as.LM.]

Gay.

!

South.

[in

manifell ; not plain.
Not in ufe
A time not much unl.l;; that which was before
time /m/fuw^'.;/? and unkjio.vn. Brou'n's Fulg. F.rr.

2. Aiming at refemblance; as. Painting is

tality.

tllily,

To connterfeit.

2.

To Imbku'te. v. n. To £iiik down to bru-

9'o

Coiuley.

I would carefs fome liable man of note.
And imitate his language and his coat. Man of7aJle.

'o

Milton,

Bacon.

Defpife wealth and imitate a god.

!

learning;

Imma'nifest. aj'/.

thananyoutof your mulkets.

SanJys,
Lucius pities the ofTenders,
their
would
imbrue
hands
in
That
Cato's Blood.
Addifin.
Lo ihefe hands in murder arc lmbrv''dy
Thofe trembling feet by juftice are purfu'd.
Prior.
There, where two waj'S in equal pans divide, -i
The diretul monfter from a far defcry'd
>
Two bleeding babes depending at her fide ;
J
Whofe piniing vitals, warm with lite, Hie draws.
And in their hearts emiruet hercruel claws.
Pofe,
His virgin fword i^gyllhus* veins imbrit*d\
The murd'rer fell, and blood aton'd fof blood.

new/«wawf«adin God.

Latin ; imiter,

We imitate and prjftife to make fwifter motions

There ftreams a fpring of blood fo fail

Into a beall ; and mi< with bcDial (lime.
This efience to incarrute and imirute.

\^imitor,

a.

To copy; to endeavour to refemble.

Spenfcr,

•Whofe arrows in my blood their wings imbrue.

Glxnville.
Wh.it he wills and intends once, he willed and
intended from all eternity; it beiii^giofsly contrary
to ihe very fiift notions we have of "the
infinite perfedlions of the Divine Nature to Hate or fuppofe any

lower ftations

French.

From thole deep wounds, as iiXtmiru^ti the face
Of that accurfed caitiff.
Danid'j Civil fV.ir.
The mercilefs Turks, emhrueJ \<^\M the Chrif-

3.

in

of life, are more ufeful, as being imitable by greater
numbers.
Atterbwy

This fcems indifferently written
with in or em. I have fullaineJ both
modes of writing.
Thou mad'rt many hearts to bleed

tian blood, were wtary of flaught-r, and began
greedily to fcek after the fpoil.
KnolUs.
At me, as at a mark, his bow he drew,

in common with us.

imitation.

long.

And by thy cruel dart^ tu thee fubduM.

internal.
Judging the infinite effence by our narrow felves,
weafcribe intelleaions, volitions,- and fuch like immanent anions to that nature which hath 3.othing

Haywjrd.
be imitated ; within reach of

Poflible to

;

Vaft;

adj. [immarent , French; /«
and OTr:^rM, Latin.] Intrinfick; inherent

projjcr for hiltory.

bnbrovii^d •liv^ native bronze, lo! Henly ftands.

Latin.]

I'mmanent.

imiulh qualities, attain to honour but by an ob-

Raleigh.
As aSs of parliament are not regarded by moll
iw:V.ii/ir writers, 1 account the relation of them im-

Gjj.

P<.pc.

mod bafe men, and feparate from

fervant {lavifh courfe ?

Pt^pf,

[/«OT/7wrV,

prodigioufly great.

Ho-.v could the

Anoth;r3£e rtiall fee the golden car

Tmbrvwn t'le Uopc, and nod on the parterre.

MM

I

Worthy to be imitated; deferving to be Imma NE. a^.

1.

all

'1

MM

I

Where the morning fun firft warmly fmote
The open ficM, anil where iH? unp'rerc'd ihaic

contain any principle of corruption.

2.

Tillotfin.

Unimportant; without weight impertinent; without relation.
Thisfenfehas
crept into the converfation and writings
of barbarians; but ought to be utterl/
;

rjjefted.

iMMATERtA'LlTY. ti./. [from immateriaW^

immortality.

JTatts.

whom catholicks count a fiint-likc

Immate'rially. adv. \Jtom immaterial.

and immucuUte prince, was taken away in the flower

In a manner not depending upon matter.

The

king,

of li" "ge.

Bacon.

Were but my foul as pure
From other guilts as that, Heav'n did not hold
One more immaculate.
Denbam'i Hopliy.
2. Pure ; limpid.
Thou clear, immaculate, and filver fountain.
From whence this ftteam, tli-ough miid'iy palfages,
Haih had his current and dehlj himfell.

.Vij<ry

.

To Imma'nali.k. -v. a. [from manacle.

To fetter

;

to confine.

Thou can'ft not touch the freedom of my mind
With all liiv charms, although tills cotporal rind

Thou haft /««M«.if/V,

Miiton.

.

Incorporeity ; diftinftnefs from body or
matter.
When we know cogitation is the prime attributeof a fpi/it, we infer its immateriality, and thence its

'\

The vifible fpecies of

things liriLc not our fenfes
Immaterially; butftrcaming in corporal rays do carry

wiih them the qualities of the objed from whence
they flow, and the medium thiough which they pafs.
Brolvn't f^ulgar Errours.

.

Immate'ri ALizED. adj. [ffom «« and OT/7leria,

Latin.

Diftind from matter ; in-

corporeal.

Though .ifliduity in the moft fixed cogitation bt •
no trouble to immaterializ,id fpirits, yet is it more
than our embodied fouls can bear without l.iffitudc.
Clatti'. Scipjii.

1mm atk'--

I

MM
Imme'diate.

Immate'riatk.«<//. [in ?iVii. rmleria, Lat.]
Not confiding of matter ; incorporeal
wanting body.
It U a virtue which may be called incorporeal

1.

I

After » long enquiry of things immerfe in matter,
I inttrpolc fume objea which is immalerlaie, or lefs
Bacoir.
niatcriale; fuch as this of founds.

completion.
The land enterpriie of Panama was an ill mei-

It

3.

.

But (he, howe'cr of vifl'ry furc.

Too

foon ; too early ; before ripenefs or com-

Imme'diately. ad-'j^ [from immediate.']

pletion.

1

Glan-utUe.

Away with flcuder, and with him at Eaton

[in and mfti/ttre.]
Immenfe; not to be mcafured; indefinite-

Immea'surable. adj.

ly extenfive.
Churches reared up to an height immttifurabte,
and adorned with far more beauty in their reftoration than their founders before had given them.
Hiitker.

From the fliore
They view'd the vail immeafuraHe abyfs.
Outrageous as a fea, dark, warteful, wild. Milttn.
ImmcafurabU ttreogth they might behold
.In me, ot wifdom nothing more than mean. Mihan

What a glorious (liow arc thofc beings entertained
'

with, that can fee fuch ticmeiidous objetfls wandering through thofe immeajurahie depths of etlier
AddiJ'ou*i Guardian.

Nor friends are there, nor velVcIs to convey.
Nor oars to cut ih' immca/urjl/e wny, I'aft's Odyjf.
Immea'surably. adi: [ from immta/uralle. ]
Immenfely ; beyond all meafurc.

The Spaniards immtaftiraUy \>tv^i\ their dead.
Spenfcr.

There ye fliall be fed, and fill'd
Immeafurakly; all thmgS IIjjU be your prey. Mitf.n.
Im m ecu a'niC ai.. ndj. [in and mechnnical.\

Not according to the laws of mechanicks.

We have nothing to do to (how any thing that
is immahanical,

laws of nature.

or not according to the cftablilhcd
Chryitt.

Nolliing will clear* head poffelTed with immccbaMuid
nical notions.

I.mme'diacy. »./. [from /wmci/w/f.] Perpower of afting without
fonal greatnefs
;

depcndancc.

'1 his

is

a harfh word,

and

fenfe jieculiar, I believe, to Shahfpeare.

He led our pow'rs.
Bore the commilCon of my place and perfon,

The vi\i\<^ iir.mtdiacy may well ftand up.
And call itfclt your broUui. Sbaltiff. King Lear.

fnrable.] Impoflibility to be meafured.

put under water.

Imme'rit. n. /. [immerito, Latin.] Want
of worth ; want of defert. This is a
better word than demerit which is now
ufed in its ftead.

When I receive your lines, and find there exprel^
my own immirit tell me

fions of a pallion, reafoa and
it

2.

1.

_

preflion.
It is a melancholy rcfle^lion, that our country,
which, in times of pcpery, was called the nation of
faints, (hould now have lefs appearance of religion
in it than any other neighbouring ftate or kingdom ;
whether they be fuch as continue (lill immerftd in th«
errors of the church of Rome, or luch as are recovered
out of them.
Addifun'i Freeh,
Wc are prone t* engage ouifelves with the bu.
finefs,
the pleafures, and the amafements of this
world
we give ourfelves up too greedily to the purfuit, and immerfe ourfelves too deeply in the enjoyments of them,
Alterbury,
It is impollible to have a lively hope in another
life, and yet be deeply immerfed in the enjoyments
of this.
Atterbury,

caufes.

[immedicabtlis , Lat.]

:

Not to be Iwaled; incurable.
My griefs ferment and rage,
Nor Ids than wounds immedicable.
Rankle and feller, and gangrene
Milton's Agortiftes.

To black mortification.

Imme'morable. (la)'. [immemoralilis, Lat.]
Not worth remembering.
I M M E M o'r A L adj. [immemorial, French
I

/'//

.

Latin.]

Faft time

covered ; funk deep.
After long inquiry of things immerfe in matter, I
which is immateriate, or left
materiatc ; fuch as this of founds, that the inlcllcA
may become not partial.
HactH.
intcrpofe fome objeift

of

fo ancient that the beginning

;

Imme'rse. adj. [immerfiu, Latin.] Buried;

;

and memcria,

memory

Im m e'rsion, n.f. [immerjio, Latin immer;

cannot be traced.
All the laws of ihis kingdom have fome memorials
in writing, yet all have not their original in writing;
for fome obtained their fjrce hy immemorial ufaje or

Jion, French.]
1. The aft of putting
Achilles's

By a long immtm'jrial pratHicc, and prcfcription
of an aged thorough-paced hypocrify, ihcy come to
believx that for a rcjlity, which, at firrt praOice
of it, they themfelves knew to be a cheat.

Unlimited; unbounded;

2.

and lime,

infinite or

fo

immenfe elTence

3.

body;

but

huh no

is

finitely;

In-

without meafure.

immenfely bigger than ail its corporeal mafs.
». /.

[imthenjite,

UnbownJcd, grcatnefs; infinity.

the furface

The ftate of being overwhelmed or loft

Immetho'uicaL. adj. [;»and melhcdicnl.]

Wc ihall find that the void fpace of our fyftem is
Im.vi e'nsity.

The ftate of finking below

and pailions, through the coiitag;on of ill exaiiiple, or
too deep an immeijicn in the aifairs of Itlc, (wcrvc
from (he rules of their holy iaiih ; yet would, upon
extraordinary warning, be bioughc to comply wiiij
Alterbury.
them.

Crc-u:.

being.

Immk'msfly. adf. [from immenfe.]

dipped him,

in any rcfpcft.
Many pcrfons, who, through llie hcatof their lufts

a thing diitinCl from
all corporeal maer.itude, wliich we aiean wlien wc
fpeak of immenfity, and of God as of au iimienfe
relation unto

faid to have

of a fluid.

!

!

is

part which the mother held in her hand dutinp, this
Addifon's Gutirdi.ln*
immerfton.

infinite.

Ogoodnefs infinite goodnefs immenfe!
Milton.
That all this good of evil fli.ill produce
As intiuite duration hatlt no relation unto motion

mother

when he was a child, in the river Styx, which
made him invulnerable all over, excepting that

Sautli.

IMMENSE, adj. [immenje, Fr. immenfus,

any body into a

fluid below the furface.

Hale.

cuiVom.

Lat.]

To keep in a ftate of intelletflual de-

3.

Prcfence with regard to time.
Exemption from fecond or intervening

IM^iE'DICABLE. ff.y/.

To put under water.
To fink or cover deep.

rocks, quarries, and mines, iii the fame manner as
they ait at this day found in all known parts of the
world.
IVoiidtvarJ.

Im m e'di ateness. ». /. [from immediate.']
2.

Suckling,

More than a mile immers'd within the wood;
At once the wind was laid.
Dryden.
They obferved that they were immtrfd in tlieir

Shakefpeare.

Imtiiediately to marry.

mull not be for me.

He ftood

Inftantly ; at the time prefent ; without

the example; but it is rather, incapability
of affording paifage.

Btackmore's Crealim.

Imme'nsurable. adj. [in and menfurabills, Latin.]
Not to be meafured.
To Imme'rge. "v.a. [immergo, Latin.] To

Soutli.

God.
2.

delay.
Her father hath commanded her to flip

proceed white cold tumours,
vifcidity, and confequenlly immeability of the juices.
Arliutbnat.

Are funs, are centers.

Immensuradi'litv. n. f. [itom immeit'

Without the intervention of any other

Immeabi'lity. n. f. \iinmealilis, Latin.]
Want of power to pafs. So it is u fed in

From ihis phlegm

Loclu.
All thefe illullrious worlds,
And millions which the glafi can ne'er defcry,
I.oft in the wilds of valt immenfity.

God's acceptance of it, either immediately by
himfclf, or mediately by the hands of the bilhop,
is that wliich veils the whole property of a thing in

pletenefs; a ftate fliort of completion.
I might reafonably expcft a pardon Irom tlic ingenious for faults committed iu an immaturity ot age
and judgment.

and difierent intelligent beings,

caufe or event.

.

•

of immen/ity.
Locke.
He that will confider the /wMfw^/yof thisfabrick,
and the great variety that is to be found in this inconliderable part of it which he has to do with, tiuy
think that in other manfions of it there may be other

1.

Trior.

Calls cruel filence to her aid.

I M M A T u 'r E N E s s 1 ». /. [from immature. ]
Unripenefs; incoraImmatu'ritv. J

MM

TbImme'rse. -v. a. [immer/us, Latin.]

Contemns the wreath too long delay'd;
And arni'd with more immediate pow'r,

r,:ylor.

ad'v. [itoxtiimmalur<-'-]

Inftant ; prefent with regard to time.
Prior therefore (hould not have written
Immediate arc my needs, and my relief,
Muft not be toil and turn'd to me in words,
S6aie/f. Timoti.
But iind fupply immediate.
Death denounc'd that day.
and
void,
vain,
already
Which he prefumes
Becaufc not yetinflifled, as he fear'd.
By fome immfdiatr ftroke. Milton's Paradi/e Loft.

Drydm.

man lives 'till feverity.

Jbboi.

more immediate.

3. Hafty; early; come to pafs before the
natural time.
We are pleafed, and call not that death immature,
"if a

much to be afcribed to the Immediate vnW
who giveth and takeih away beauty at his

pleafure.

Let now your immature dilVenfion ceafe.

Im matu'rely

is

of Cod,

fured and immaturt counfel, grounded upon a talle
account, that the pafiageswere no better fortified than
Bacon.
©ralte had left them.
This is your lime for faflion and debate.
hate
:
permilicj
For partial favour, and
Sit quiet.

Not afting by fecond caufes.

2.

Not ripe.
Not perfeft; not arrived at fulnefs or

2.

and mtdiits, Liitin.J
Being in fuch a ftate with rcfpeft to
fomcthing elfe as that there is nothing
between them; proximate; with nothing
Mofes mentions the /»i»i<-i//arf caufesof the deluge,
the rains and the waters ; and St. Peter mentions
the more remote and fundamental caufes, that conftiBurrut.
tution of the heavens.

Sjcox.

IMMATU'RE. adj. [/w»i«/«r«;, Latin.]

I

By the po^ver we find in ourfclvei of repeallnf, at
often as we will, any idea of fpace, we get the idea

Ummcdiat, French; in

adj.

intervening.

«pd immateriule, whereof there be in nature but few.

1

M M

I

I M M A T E 'r A L !» E s 1. «./. [ from immattrial.y^
Diftinftnefs from matter.

Conftifed; being without regularity; being without memod.

iientley.

French.]
:

M. Baylc comp.ires the anfwering of an immethUieal aulhoi to tlie bunting of a duck: when
yon

MM

I

I

you

h«e him full in your fight, he givej you the

flip,

and beeomes invifible.

Adiifox.

impending

A word not in ufe.
ger.
1 do not fpealc of flight, of fear, of death j
But dare all imminence^ that gods and men

IMMINENT,

[imminent,

adj.

Fr.

;

Three times to-day

'Tis needful that the moft immodrfi word
Be look'd upon and learn 'd j which once attain'd,

Shakefpeare.

Cjo-cs to no farther ufe

Thefe (he applies for warnings and porceats
and oa her knee

But to be k ^\\n and hated.
Shakefpeare
ImmodcJi wvrds admi t of no defence.
For want of decency is want of fehle.
Rofeommon.
Unreafonable; exorbitant; arrogant.
4..

;

Hath begg'd, that I will flay at home to-day.
Sbakrfpeare .^

To them preach 'd
Converfion and repentance, as to fouls
In prifon, under judgments /mw///c«r.
Milton.
Men could not fail without imminent danger and
inconveniencies.

Fope,

To I M M I N G L E "v-a. [/« and mingle.
mingle; to mix; to unite.
,

'[

To

Immo'desty. n. f. [immodepe, Fr. from
imm'Jefi,'] Want ofmodefty
indecency.
It was a piece of immodtjiy.

;

Ray or. ibe Creation.

iMMisciBi'i.iTV. n.f. [from immiydi/e.]
Incapacity of being mingled.
Immi'slible. rtJJ. [in and mi/cible.l Not
capable of being mingled.
Clarijfa.
Immi'ssion. n. J. [immijfio, Latin.] '1 he
aft offending in ; contrary to emiflion
'
To Immi't. nj. n [immillo,
Latin.]
To
n.;
[in and mix."]
ruingle.
Samfon, with ihefe immixt, inevitably
PuU'd down the fame dcftrucliou on himfelf.

2.

MM

X A B L F . adj. [in and mi.x.'\
ble to be mingled.

Sacred to Neptune, and the pow'rj divine.

Fill a glafi

fphere with fuch liquors as

clear, of the fame colour,

Immobi'litv. n.f.

miimmixuble.

may be

immahilis,

nefs ;

want of motion ;

Latin.]

refiltance to mo-

tion.

IMN;0'DERATE. adj. [immodere, Fr. immoderniut,

T.at.J

Excefijvc;

exceeding

In an exceflive degree.

Immdenteiy (he weeps for Tybalt's death.
lil>alnffetre.

Hr'j-wfi.

Not liable

to

be carried away ; real in

law.

When .nn executor meddles wilh the immoveaUe
Shalicfpeare.

m,rnl man.
Contrary to honefty; difhoneft
as,
deferlion of a calumniated friend is an

eltaie, before he has fcized
it

3.

virtue.
Such men are put intothecnmrniflionof the
the bawds of the ward pay coniribution.

S-.vifi.

IMMO'RI'AL. adj. [immcrla/i,;-Lat.]
Exempt from death ; being never to die.
To the king eternal, immoriai, invUib;?. the only
tTim.'t, 17.

The Haphian tjueen.

nnafTcfted.
How much happier is he, who, centring on himfelf, remains immo-ur.:hle, and fmiles at tlie madDefs
of the dance about him !
Dryden,
;

Immu'nity. ». /.
tas,
I.

iValUr.

[immunite, Fr. imiiiuui-

Lat.]

Difcharge from any obligation.

Of things haimlcfs wharfcunr (here is, which
the whole church doth oblt^r\c, to argue for any m.ui's
immunity Irom

obl'civing the fami;,

it

of mol> infolcnt m.idnefs.

z. riivilege:

were

a

point

(looker.

exemption from onerous dti-

ties.

Granting great immiimties tn the commons, ihey
prevailed fo lar as to caufc Palladius 10 be pro Liinud
lucccflbr.
Sini'in fent to

With gored hand, and veil fo rudely torn.
Like terrordid among th' immori.ih biccd,
Taught by her wound that goddtllci may bli-ed.

[iroxn immoveable.] In

a fiate not to be (liaken.
Immtviahly firm to ihcir duty, when they could
have no profpetil of reward.
Atterbury,

peace

who encourage the grolleft imm;raliiir,, to wh>m

Aylijf'e's Parergon,

Unfhaken

Immo'vably. ff/.'V.

/VffCTsra/aftion.

Lv;s!ora'i.itv. n. f. [from immoral.] Difhoneily ; want of virtue ; contrariety to

on the moveable goods,

may be then appealed from the execution of ie.-n-

tence.

:

Her body fitc] s in Capulet's monument.
And her immr.ri.il pans wiih angels lives. .SiiairJi,.
There was an op. nion in grol.., tliat the foul \v.i»
immortal.
AUut's Dfcription ofllje iVorl.l

^^ fn the Creation.

upon.

fome lady-triflcs have re fcrv'd,

wife God, be glory for ever.

Immo D£R at ELY. ad-v. [from immoderate,]

when he iinds an imrnuveable bafe to place his engine
2.

mejns, very eflHbal for the pteferration
of
health, is a quiet and cheerful inind, not
affliflcd
with violent pilTiOfis, or dirtraard with itmir.dtrate
'•""^''

[inT^.w^mo'veahle.]

Not to be forced from its place.
We (hall not queltion his removing the earth,

1.

A barbarous

religion ; as, a flatterer ol' vice is an im-

I.

BentUy.

in his fenfual pleafures!

ImmoVabLE. adj.

Immo'ral. adj. [in ^nd moral.]
1. Wanting regard to the laws of natural

all

without

What pity 'tis that he cannot wallow immortally

Decay ofPiriy.

Immomint loys, things of fiicli dignity
As we greet modern friends v.ith.il.

2.

;

Shakefp. HenryW

Long guard it yours!

Im mo'm e NT. adj. [/wand moment.] Trifling;

I

Pope,

immortal.]

end.

^,.,.„,„.

A facrifice offered.

the due mean.
<)r.t

Immo'rtally. adv. [from
With exemption from death

Ifaac, or

We make more barbarous immolations than the

The courfe of fluids through the vafcular falids
mul> in lime harden ilic fibres, and abolifh many
of the canals j (rom whence drinefs, weakuefs. Immunity, and debility of the vital force.
AiliulhKil on Alimenli,
...... .__

Pope.

Fix the year precife.

When Biiiilh bards begin t* immortali-xe.

There is your crown

littleboy.

H'ii'kiim.

I'nmoveablc-

liar to Pope;

And he tliat wears the crown immortally.

In the piflure of the immolation of

[immoLilite, French^

from

^hakefpejre.

Abraham faciilicing his fon, Ifaac is defcribed as a

of no importance or value.
word.

To exempt from oblivion.

To Immo'rtai.ize. 'v. n.
To become,
immortal.
This word is, I think, pecu-

The aft of facrificing.

moft favage heathens.

to perpetuate ; to

For mortal things defirc their like to breed,
Vuvier,

immolate.]

Im|K>fli-

I

To offer in facrilice.

Immola'tion, n.f. [immolation, Yx. ham

2.

;

Thatlb they may their kind it*:mortali?:,e.

Boyle.

Now iifmolate the tongues, and mix the wiiie.

1

To make immortal
exempt from death.

Drive them from Orleans, and he immortali^'J.

_,

To

Milton.
I

1.

facrificfe.

all that they can fpare, that they
frequently enough
are forced to /«wo/<j«theirown ddiies to their vanitv.

fend it.

To Immi'x.

to kill in

Exemption from oblivion.

So as never to die.
To Im mo'rtalize, v. n. [Immortalifer. Fr.
from immortal.]

2.
;

duced to live ill want, thefe collly trifles fo engrofling

decreafe.

imminution

To facrifice

Thefe courtiers, of applaufe being oftentimes re-

Thefe revolutions are as exaflly uniform as the
earth's are, which could not be, were there any
place for chance, and did not a Providence continually overfte and fecure them from all alteration or

z.

Immo'rtally. <7. •. [from the adjeftivc.]

Pupe

moler, Fr.]

Thomfon,

Diminution

of a fpirit, we infer its immateriality, and thence its
immortaliy.
IVatts.

To l'MMt)LATE. -v. a. [immclo, Lat. im'1.

Cljryite.

When we know cogitation is the prime attribute

;

S<)me of us, like thee, through llormy life
ToiI'd, tempeft-biaten, ere we could attain
This holy calm, this harmony of mind.
Where purity and peace immingli charms.

Imminu'tion.»./. [itom imminuo, Latin.]

lality.

3. Obfcene.

You have defended me from imminent death.

Of evils imminent

Dentam.
His exiflence will of itfelf coniinue forever, unlefs
be deihoyed; which is impollible, from the immutability of God, and the nature of his immorit

Immodeji deeds you hinder to be wrought;
But we f roletibe the leaft immodeji thought. Dryd.

Hooker.

Milton,'

He th' immortality ai ioM\s proclaim'd.
Whom th' oracle of men the wifeft nam'd.

Unchafle; impure,

2.

Fr.

Corinth.

^mS immortality, and joy.

Sbakefpcare.

God doth know, and not

have

[immortalite,

n. f.

this mortal, immortality.

She railed at hetfelf, that (he (hould be fo immodeji to write to one that (he knew would flout her.

What -da/igers at any time arc immine/it, what
we.

and

chaftity.

im-

;

evils hang over our heads,

Fr. in

[immodefte,

I

life never to
end.
This corruptible (hall put on incorruptlon, and

Wanting fhame ; wanting delicacy or

1.

Impending
at hand
Always in an ill fenfe.

threatening.

adj.

:

Shakejpeare.

from immortal.]
I. Exemption from death;

Tnoi'eft.]

Sbakefp.

minens, Latin.]

Immorta'lity.

;

Immo'dest.

-

AJdrcfs their dangers in.

Burnet's Theory.

excefa.

immediate or near dan-

;

;

/wworM/ longings in me,

Immodera'tion. n.f. [immoderation, Fr.
from immoderate,] Want of moderation
Any

I'mminence. n.f. \itom imminent. \
ill

chapping it.

Without meti.od ; without or-

der.

MM

I

Never-ending perpetual.
Give me my robe, put on thy crown

2.

the earth, fucking cut the moillure that was the
cement of its parts, drying it immoderately, and

Immetho'dically. adv. [from immethodical.^

MM

The heat weakened more and more the arch of

Remcinus,

to the

Sidney^
end he Ihou.d

give ihe land an immuni'y, btcjufe all that (Vvphun

did was to fpoil.

\.M.ie.i(n. 34.

The bity invidioufly aggravate the rigliis iid immunities vi the clergy,
Sprati't Strmoiis.
3.

Freedom,

,

I

M P
rilMP. f. /r.

3, Freedom.

Common apprehenfions entertain

the Jntidotal
condition of Ireland, conceiving only in that land
Brown.
an immuftily from venomous creatures.
fut this annex'd condition of the crown,
Dryden.
Immunity from errors, you difown.

IMP

MP

I

This tntparadi/eJ neighbourhood made Zelmane't
foul cleave unto her, both through the ivory cafe
of her body, and the apparel which did over-cloud
Sidney,
\t,
All my fouls be
Imparadis'd'm you, in whom alone
Dj/tne,
1 underftand, and grow, and fee.
Thus thefe two,
Imparadis'd in one another's arms.

Wellh.]

[imfio, to engraff,

To lengthen or enlarge with any thing

,

It is originally a term ufcd
by falconers, who repair a hawk's wing
with adfcititious fe.ithers.

adfcititious.

-

T* Immu're.

'V.

and mtmti, Lat.
fo that it might

a.

[it!

emmer, old French,
To
be written emmure.l

Sbakefpeare,

inclofc within

walls ; to confine ; to fliut up ;

im-

to

prifon.
Pity, you ancient ftones,

If ilicn we fliall Ihake ofrour flavid; yoke.
Imp out our drooping country's broken wings.

!

Shak.

One of Ihcfc contains her heav'nly piflure.
And (hall I think in filver (he's immur'J! Shat/f.
At the firft defcent on (hore he was not immured
with a wooden veflel, but he did countenance the landJVotton,

ing in his long-boat.

Their hydra heads, and the falfc North difplays
Her broken league to imp her ferpent wings.

Sandys.
Lyfimachus immur' J it with a wall.
Though a foul foolilh prifon her Immure
On earth, (he, when cfcap'd, is wife and pure.

A_wall;
an inclofure, as in Shake/peare, but perhaps no where elfe.

New creatures rile,

wanting proportion of

(hooting out with

All founds are either mufical, which are ever equal,
or immujicai, which are ever unequal, as the voice
Biico?t.
in fpeaking, and whifpcrings.
conlider the immiijical note of all fwans we

Wc

legs,

and imp'd with

wings.

The grubs proceed to bees with pomtedftinge.
Impt

inclofe with a

common.

Southern.

To

[impaclus, Lat.]

a,

To IMPA'RT. T. a.

To grant

They are angular ; but of what particular figure
eafy to determine, becaufe of their being impacted fo thick and confufedly together,
Waodlvard an Fejflls.
is not

[in SnA pai/tt-l

To

paint;

to decorate with colours.

Not

change

invariablenefs

;

unchangeablenefs.

Dryden.

To make known

to fliow by words or

The ininiutalriliiy of God

Gentle lady.

When firft I did impart my love to you,

To change any fuch law, mull: needs, with the

Hecjker.

common fort, impair and weaken the tbrce of thole
grounds whereby all laws are made effeflual.
Hooker,

ftrive

be dertroyed ; which
mulijii/'ry of Ciod.
it

IMMU'T.'^BLE.

impofliblc,

is

'

from the /mCheyne.

[immutabilis, Lat.]

adj.

Unchangeable; invariable; unalterable.
By tv/o intKiutaiie things, in which it was impofiible for God to lye, we have a ftrong confolation.

Objefts divine

Mult needs impair^ and weary human fcnfc, Milton.
That foon refrelh'd him weary'd, and repair'd

What hunger, if aught hunger had impair'dt
Or thirft.

Thy threat'nings.

Lord,

thou

as tliine,

may 'ft

revoke

Milton's Paradije Regain'd.

Nor was the work impair'd by ftorms alone.

Heb, vi.

Pope.
But felt th' appro.iches of too warm a fun.
Ill years he feem'd, but not impair'd by years.
Pope.

But if immutMe and fix'd they ftand.
Continue Hill thyfclf to give the ftrokc.

And let not foieign foes opprcls thy land.

Dryden-

To Impa'ir.
worn out.

Immu'tably. ad'V, ixom immutable.^ Unalterably ; invariably ; unchangeably.
His love is like his elfcncc, immutably eternal.
Boyle.

Imp. «. /. [/»>/, Wcldi, a Ihoot, alj)rout,
a fprig.]
I.

A fon

the offspring ; progeny.
;
That noble imj> your fon.
Lnrd Cromtvell 10 Kiitf; Henry.
And thou, moft dreadful imp of higheft Jove,

Fairy It^ueen.
lair Venus' fon.
The tender imf> was weaned from the teat.
FairJUx.
laJ of life, an imp of fame. Sbukifp. Henry V.

A

a,

A fubaltem devil

;

a

puny

devil.

In

this fcnfe 'tis ftill retained.
Such wc deny not to be the impt and limbs of
Satan.
Hgek,

The ferpent after long debate, irrefolute
Of thoughts rcvblv'd, Jiis final fentence chafe,
Fitvcdcl,

litlcrt /wi^of fr,iud,

in

whom

To enter, and his dark fuggcftions hide
trom (barpeft light.

hUltm's Paradije Loft.

As foon as you can hear his knell,
Thisjod on earth turns d
1 ia hell;
And, I0I

Transform'd to imps, his levee wait.

pair.

Impa'ir.

»../.

or

leffened

but reafon can reFairy Queen.

[from the verb.] Diramu-

Not ufed.

tion ; decreafe.

A

loadftone, kept in undue pofition, that is, not
lying on the meridian, or with its poles inverted,
receives in longer time impair in adtivity and exchange of faces, and is mere powerfully prefcrved by
(ite

Bro-wn.

than duft 01 ftcel.

Impa'irment. n. f. [iiom impair.l

Di-

His porterity, at

this diftance,

and

after fo per-

petual impairment, cannot but condemn thi poverty
of Adam's conception, that thought to obfcurc himfelf from his Creator in the dude of the garden.
Brov>n's I^ulgar Errours.

Impa'lpable.
3,n& palpable.']

adj.

[impalpable,

Yi.

in

Not to be perceived by

touch.
If beaten Into ^nimpulpaklr powder, when poured
out, it will emulate a liquor, by reafon that the
fmallnefs of the parts do make them eafy to be put
Boyle.
into moiion.

Impa'radise.

v.

a.

[imparadijarc,

To put in a place or ftate re-

ferabling paradife in felicity.

Bacon,

impart their minds.

Thou to me thy thoughts
Waft wont,

I

mine to thee was wont t' impart.
Milion.

To communicate; to grant as to a par-

3.

taker.
I find thee knowing of thyfclf j
Exprefling well the fpirit within thee free.
image, not imparted to the brute.

My

Impa'rtial.

adj.

[impartial,

Milton.

Fr. in

and

Equitable ; free from regard to
party ; indifferent ; difinterefted ; equal in
diftribution of juftice; juft.
It is ufed
as well of aiflions as perfons : an impartial
judge; an impartial fentence.

partial.]

Succefs I hope, and fate I cannot fear:
Alive or dead, I fliall deferve a name ;
Jove is impartial, and to both the fame.

Imparti a'lity.
ixom impartial,]

/.

7t.

Dryden,

SjmpKTtialite,

Fr,

Equitablenefs ; juftice;

indifference.
A pious and well difpofed will gives not only
diligence, hut iVa impartiality lo the iinderftanding
in its fcarch into religion, which is abfolutely necelTary to give fuccefs unto our inquiries into truth ;
it

being

fcarce

polfible

mark, whofe eye
befide it.

is

that man to hit the
glancing upon fomething
Soutb.

for

ftill

adv.
[from impartial.]
Equitably; with indifferent and unbialfed
judgment without regard to party orin-

ImPa'rtiai.LY.

minution; injury.

Italian.]

Svi/i,

To be

Flelh it>ay impair, quoth he ;

To

his minifters of ftate,

«.

i;.

had

Siaiefp. Merchant ofVeniet.
Ran in my veins.
As in confeflion the revealing is for the eafc of a
man's heart, fo fecret men come to the knowledge
ot many things, while men rather difcharge thaa

Sbakefpeare.

unto, by

they

all the wealth I

I freely told you,

Such water-colours to impttint his caufe.

Hisexiftcnce will of itfclf continue for ever, unlefs

working after ojic and the fjmc manner.

;

tokens.

in ufe.
Never yet did infurreflion want

to injure; to make worfe; to leflen in
quantity, value, or excellence.

;

But give me your heart,
2.

Immutabi'i.ity. n. f. [immutahilitas, Lat. To Impa'ir. 1'. a. [empirer, to make
Eximmutabilite, Fr. from immutable.^
worfe, French. Skinncr.'\ To diminilh ;
emption from

[impartior, Lat.]

to give.
High ftate and honours to others imparl.

1.

drive clofe or hard.

a.

To
[in and park.]
park ; to fever from a

To Impa'rk. -u. a.

to overtake his gholV.

for the night,

Broivri.

ever beheld or heard of.

,

Dryden.'
The Mercury of heav'n, with filver, wings

To Impa'int. n}.

found.

the lateral divifion of man, by even and odd ; and fo
by parity or imparity of letters in men's names, to
determine mislortunes on either (ide of their bodies ?
Broifn's f^ul^ar- Errours.

A moving mafs at Hrft, and (hort of thighs
'Till

Oddnefs; indivifibility into equal parts.
What verity is there in that numeral conceit, in

2.

Dryd.

His navy's molted wings he imps once more.

ToImpa'ct. f.

To ranfack Troy ; within whofc ftrong immures
The ravilh'd Helen, Menelaus' queen,
Sbaltefj,eare.
With wanton Paris fleeps.
[in
and mujical.]
Immu'sical.
adj.

the hardnefs i»
caufed c'r.icHy by the jejuncnefs of tlio fpirits, ar.d
Bac<jn.
their imparity with the tangible parts.

With cord and canvafs from rich Hamburgh font.

Immu'r-e. ». /. [from the verb.]

Their vow is made-

'

Cleave!.

.

[imparitas, impar, Lat.]

Inequality; difproportion.
Some bodies are hard, fomc folt:

1.

Help, ye tartfatyrifts, to<w/imy rage
With all the fcorpions that Ihould whip this age.

Denbam.

Inharmonious J

Impa'ritv. n. /.

Milton.

Aefe tender babes,

Whom envy hath immur'd vi\t)\\n your walls

The happier Eden, (hall enjoy their fill
Milton's Paradifi Lo/I.
Of blifs on blifs.

New rebellions raife

;

tereft; juftly; honeftly.
Since the Scripure promiles eternal happinefs and
pardon of fin, upon the folc condition of faith and
liilfcrc obedience, it is evident, that he only can
pftad a title to fuch a pardon, whofe conlcience
impartially tells him that he has performed the
Soutb,
required condition.

Impa'rtible. adj. [impartible, Fr. from
to be conferred
imparl.] Communicable
This word is elegant,
or beftowed.
though ufed by few writers.
;

The f,ime body may be conceived to be more or
Digh.
iMf a'ssabll.

Icfs impartibli than it is aftive or heavy.

I

Impa'ssabli; adj.
to be paflbd ;

MP

MP

I

»ni fojahle."] Not
not admitting paffage : ira-

There are in America many high and impajfahlt

J.

Raleigh.

Over this gulf
Imfajfalle, impervious j let us try,
To fjuod a path from hell to that new world. Milton.

Eager; ardently defirous ; not able to
endure delay: with /sr before the thing

Impatient fir the world,

„i

„ the feas prepared the
On
veffel ftands

j

Two divinities might have pleaded their preroga-

Clarendon.

Dryden's /Sn. Dedic,

adj.

3.

not ufual.
The ambition of the French king was to impatromzx himfelf of the duchy.
BaconU Henry VII

Vo Impa'wn.

rebellious fervant (hall be eternally call oflF, drop into

Therefore take heed how you imfavin our perfon,
How you awake our Oeeping fyord of war. Sbakefp.

To IMPEACH, t;. a.
I.

<7<iJ.".

,,.

If

able
to refift, they put themfelves
out of all expeflation of

"TX'fl
A dcHuxion on my
2.

to

under fuf-

Impeach.*. /. [from the

Temple

T

Not able to endure ; incapable to bear

3.

Impe'acher. n. f. [from
accufer; one
p^pe

q
impeach.]

'Tn

who brings an accufation

delinquent to the merciful indulgence

wound.

To be /»;.««•„, at the death of a perfon,
H« whom It was certain he muft die, is concern.
to
mouTn

'^'^''^''^"''/"-''•SMj.

That man pretends he never
commits any aift
prohibited by the word of
Cod, and then thatVere
a rare charm to render him
impeccable, or this is the
means ot confecrating every fin of his.
Hammond on Fundamentals.
rf X
/

/o Impede, 'v. a. [impedio,
Lat.]
hinder; to let; to obftrutft.
All the forces aremufteied to

the

Impe^achmekt. «./ [itom impeach.]
I.

Hindrance;

let;

impediment; obftruc-

Not in ufe.

tion.
Tell

us what things, during
your late continuance there, are moft offenfive,
and the grcateft
impeachment to the good government thereof.
-r it

L

!

.

.

,

.

^enjer on Ireland.

Tel! thy king I do notfeek him now;
But could be willing to march on to Calais,
Without impeachment.

Shakefp. Henry

V

Neither 13 this acccflion of neceffity any
impeach-

To

impede its palTage.

Decay ofPieti,

rn.

The way is open, and no (lop to force
1 he Itars return, or to impede their

r

iMPE DIMENT. n. f.

courfe.

Creech. Manll.

,

[impedimentum, Lat.]

Hindrance; let; impeachment;
obftruction ; oppofition.

The minds of beads grudge not at their
bodies
comfort, nor are their fenfes
letted from enjoying
their objefls: we have the
impediment, of hotiou?
and the torments of confcience.
Sidney
What impediment, there aie to hinder

which were the fpecdiell way to remove
*•'"«'>

,,7 T'y''l''^'?'°'*^W''>'
exercilcd
without impediment or let.
liut for

and

it,

them.
»'l virtue'ij"

Hooker'

my tears,

The moid impediments unto my fpeech,
1 had 'oreftall'd this dear and deep

May I never
To this good purpofe, that fo fairly

rebuke. Shahrp.

''

(hews,

Sbak. Ant. and Cleopatra.

pediment m his fpeech.
'

Mark, vii. 3 j.

*'""* '"/'"/''""" to martyrdom,

,nH r/rlf
and
he that/ is overcome by little

arguments of pain
his life with torments.
Taylor's Rule ofllvinv boh.

will hardly confent tolofe

_

^

,
Free from th'
impediments of light
,

.

^

and noift,

Man, thus retir'd, his nobler thoughts employs
cr
ro T

IValler.

1
.
Impe'l.
-v. a. [impello, Latin.]
To drive
.

on towards a point ; to urge forward;

to

.prefs on.

So Mirrha's mind, impell'don cither

of a Saviour,
Gmernment ofthe Tongue.

•

4.Hot,ha(hr.
Vol. I.

providence had been

agamft another.
Many of our fierceft Impeacheri would leave

pain.

paflion; with at before
the occafion
with of. impatience is referred
more to the
thing, with at, to the perfon.

wu not born an angel

Impeachable.

•

Vehemently agitated by fome
pamtul

beeaafe thy fneod

Had Cod omitted by pofitive laws to give-religion

'

'"'{"""^"•'J »« twoof hisat-

Uream of impediment.

Shakefpeare.

,

to the world, the wifdom of his

with of.

^'"*

tribute.'"'''"^

cufable; chargeable.

Impa'tient. atij. [impatient, Y[. impatiens,

The tortur'd lavage lurn» artjund.
And flings about his foam, impatient o/the

Hin-

verb.]

IMPE ACHABLE. adj. [froffl impeach.] Ac-

3. Inability to fuffer delay; eagernefs.

2. Furious with pain ; unable to bear

Hivift

If here you hous'd him, here he
would have been •
If be were mad, he would not plead
fo coldly.

'

Vehemence of temper ; heat of paffion.

com-

drance; let; impediment.
Why, what an intricate impeach is this

make was upon

Fame, impatient of airtma, decays
Not more by envy than excefs of praife.

To accufe by public authority.
Oreat diflentions were kindled among
the nobles
and commons, on account of
Coriolanus, whom the
latter had impeached.

;>>,-'

AH the power of his whs has given way to his im.
refolved

ihrottlmpeaciedmy uuerancc.

They were both impeached by a houfe of

fering.

The experiment I

Hayward.

V

•

patient ia, Lat.]

thought, and not ralhnefs or impatience.

apenfer.
the Holy
Da%,i,i.

they will Impeach all the purpofesof
an army,
which they have no reafon to think themfelves

And on th' impaffive ice the lightnings play. Pofe.
lur A'iT ED. a^j. [in and fajit. ] Concreted
a» into pafte. This word is not in ufe.

1. Inability to fuffer pain ; rage

to

his life.

She told him whatthofe empty phantoms were,
Tormi without bodies, and imfaJi-vtuT. Hryd.JEti.
Pale funs, unfelt at diftancc, roll away

Fr.

,

.
His tons did impeach
his journey
Land, and vexed him all the days of

{t.

lMPE'cCABLE. adj. [impeccable, Fr.
rWnd
pecco, Lat.] Exempt
from poffibility of

This fenfc is

Each door he opened without any breach
There was no bar to flop, nor foe him to impeach.

So, Handing, moving, or to height upgrown.

n. f. [impeccabiliti.

trom impeccable.] Exemption
from fin ;
exemption from failure.

[empecher, Fr.]

To hinder; to impede.

Digby to Pope.

!

little in ufe.

The tempter, all impajfuin'd, thus began. Milton.
Impa'ssive. fl<^'. [/« and /(T^w.j Exempt
from the agency of external caufes.

[impatience,

to give as a

Of what your reverence (hall invite us to

Impa'ssioned.
\tn mi pojffion!] Difordered by paflion.

Shakefp

To

and pawn.]

Shall drop their blood in approbation

the fenfualities of this world, and yet cry out for the
imfaffitUnefi of the next
Dtcay ofPUii.

fons,

[in

Go to the king, and let there be Impaivn'd

How Ihamelefs a partiality i> it, thus to referve all

Bak'd and impaftcd with the parching fires.

a.

Some furety for a fafe return again. Hhak. Henry IV.
Many now in health

Impa'ssibleness. ». y; [from impnfibU.}
Impaflibility ; exemption from pain.

Horribly trickt
With blood of fathers, mothcn, daughters,

'V.

impignorate; to pawn;
pledge; to pledge.

a perpetual imfaJMe nothing, take a long progrefs
into a land where all things are forgotten, this would
be feme colour.
Hammond.
Secure of death, I Ihould contemn thy dart.
Though naked, and impajfible icfitt.
Dryden.

S-wift,

°" ""' ^"''^"t mantle of the

T..»„l
iMPECCABi'LiTy.

is

If the upper foul check what is confcnted to by
the will, in compliance vrS^ the flelh, and can
then hope that, alter a few years of fenfualily, that

n. f.

a. [impatronifei-,Yx.

and patronize.] To gain to one's felf
the power of any feigniory.
This word

exempt from pain.

Impa'tience.

'v.

earth

in

;

^J^rJ'Z' '

fcagerly; with great delire.

7e Impatronize.

Fr. »« and
pajjio, Latin.] incapable of fuffering; exempt from the agency of external caufes
\imfafftble,

their ftate.

c, [in and pear/.]

a;,

.

Innumerable as the ftars of night.
Or dais of morning, dewdrops, which
the fun
Impearls on every leaf and ev'ry
flowV.
Mi/ton.
2. Jo decorate as with pearls.
"^ "/ """.'"S ''"('"•rl every thorn.

Paffionately ; ardently.

tive oUmpaJibility, or at leaft not have been wounded

Sbak. R. HI
Somers, though his accufers
would

To form in refemblance of pearls.

1.

He confidered one thing fo Impatiently, that he
would not admit any thing to be worth confideration.

terna] things.

'°"^,

u

iMPE A R L

1

Pope.

1 .

2.

Tt

Addifon.
'^°"'^='i"'n«' of Coriolanus's impcichmrnt
%Avl
had
like to have been fatal
to

Impa'tiently. adv. [from impatient.']
With rage, under uneafinefs.

from impajfible.'\ Exemption from fufFering; infufceptibility oi injury from ex-

enfnaring of men's con.
e
j ,
oanderhn.

with them for the profecution.

and grafps his promis'd
DrydiK.

,PO^'''-

.

/•

The king, provok'd to it by the queen,
Uevis'd impeachment to imprifonhim.

The mighty Caefar waits his vital hour,

Th' /BT/ar/i^r mariner thy fpeed demands.

by any mortal hand.

D Li-

i'ubhc accufation ; charge preferred.

2.

defired.

When Alexander would have paOird the Ganges,

1.

iciences.

Addifon's Spe£lator.

mountains, which are very cS. h.

2.

nent fo Chriftian liberty, or

be intormed of the matter that lies before him.

pervious.

Impa'ssible.

IMP

The impatient man will not give hlmfelf t!oM to

[in

Takes ev'ry bent, but cannot long abide.
•1

fide.

Dryden

he (miiimpell'd me on a craggy coaft.

riopiiious gales
Attend thy voyage, and impel thy fails.

Pope.
''

Pope's OJyf.

A mightier pow'r the ftrong direi5lion fends.

And fev'ral men Impels to fev'ral ends;
T his drives them coaltant to a certain coaft.

Pope.

Impe'llent. »./. [impel/ens, Latin.] An
Impulfive power; a power that drives
forward.

How fuch a variety of motions (hoitid be regularly
nanaged, in fuch a wildemcfs of paflages, by
mere
blind impellents and material coiivcyaiKcs,
I have
not the kail conjeawrc.

6K

ClMville.
7-^

MP

I
I•

To hane; over.
To be at hand

to

prel's

nearly.

It is

It eiprefles our d«p forrow for our paft fins, and
our lively fenfe oi Goi'a imfertJing wrath.
SmalriJge'x Sermons.
No Dory I unfold ofpublick w6es.
Nor bear adyices of impmding foe*. Pope*s Oelyjff^.

Impe'ndent.

\imfe»dens , Lat.]
Imtf</r".
minent; hanging over; preffing clofely.
In an ill fenfe.
If the evil feared or 'M^nb/ff be a greater fenthan the good, it over-rules the appetite to

lible evil

llaU.

averfatioo.

Dreadful in arms, on Landen's glorious plain
Place Ormond'sduke imfendtnt in the air
Prior.
Let his keen fabre, comet-like appear.

.Impe'ndenci.
ttate

imptndem.\
n. /. [from
of hanging over ; near ap-

proach.
Good fometimes

is

not fafe to be attempted, by

teafon of the impendence of a greater fenlible evil.

Hale.

Impenetrabi'lity. »,/. \impenetrabiUte',
Ft. from impenetrable.]

Quality of not being pierceable, or permeable.

1

All bodies, fo far as experience reaches, are either
hard, or may be hardened ; and we have no other
evidence of univerfal imfenelrabilily, belldes a large
experience, without an experimental exception.
NeM-ton's Optics.

2. Infufceptiblllty of intelleiSual impremon.
IMPE'NETRAB'LE. adj. {impenetrable^ Fr.
impenetrabilis, Lat.]

Not to be pierced ; not to be entered by
any external force.

1 ,

With hard'ning cold, and forming heat,
Before th' impenetrable IhieM was wrought. Dryden,

t. Impervious ; not admitting entrance.
Deep into fome thick covert would 1 run,

Like to thcmfclves,

Not complete ; not abfolutely finidied ;
Ufed either of pcrfons or

Loclte,

Not to be taught; not to be informed.
4. Not to be aflefted not to be moved.
3.

;

It is the moft impenetrthU cur
That ever kept with men.
Let him alone
I'll follow him no more with'bootlefs prajcn.

of;m/)<-»//m/r, isoncc aflented to as true, 'tis impoflible but the mind of man (houldwilh for the one,

and have diflikes to the other.

Hbukefpeare.

If any thing can be faid againft it : they will be credulous in all affairs of life, but impenetrable by a
Taylor,
fermon of the gofpel.

Impe'netrably. a^/'T.rfrom impenetrable.]
With hardnefs to a degree incapable of
impreflion.
Blunt the fenfe, and fit it for a IkuU
Pope.
Of folid proof, impenelrubly dull.
«. / [impenitence, Fr.
Impe'mitence.
I
/«and penitence. ] ObI.mpe'nitency. J

want of remorfe for crimes

;

fi-

nal difregard of God's threatenings

or

mercy.
Where one man ever comet to repent, a thoufand
South,
Before the revelation of the gofpel the wickednefs
and impenitcncy of the heathens was a much more
ttcufeable thing, becaufe they were in a great meafure ignorant of the rewards of another life.
TilUl/on.
He will »Jvance from one degree of wickednefs

end their days in final impenitence.

and impenitence to another, 'till at Uft be becomes
K-ogert.
haideaed without rcmoifc

thing, fettled in the imagination; but never arriving
at the undcrftanding, there to obuin the tinflure of
reafon.
Ben Jon/oie.

Hammond.
impenitent.]

Obdurately; without repentance.
The condition required of us is a conftellation of
all

the gofpel graces,

every one of

them

The middle a£lion, which produceth imperfcA
bodies, is fitly called, by fome of the ancients, in?uination or inconcoflion, which is a kind of putre-

rooted in

the heart, though mixed with much weaknefs and
perhaps with many (ins, fo they be not wilfully, and
impeniienlly lived and died in.

aftion.

works.
Bravin.
Divers things we agree to be knowledge, which
yet are fo uneafy to be fatisfaftorily underliood by
our imperfen mxeWcQs, that let them be delivered
in the clearelt exprflnons, the notions themfclvcj
will yet appear obfture.
Boyle.
marcor is either imperfel}, tending to a greater

Pape.

Impe'nnous. adj. [in znd penna, Latin.]
Wanting wings. This word is convenient, but, I think, not ufed.

K

It is generally received an earwig hath no wings,
and is reckoned among!) impennous infe<3s, but he
that (hall, with a needle, put afide the (hort and
(heathy cafes on their back, may draw forth two

wings, larger than in many flies.

I'mperate.

adj.

withering, which is curable : or perfeil, that isr in
intire waiting of the body, excluding all cure.

Harney on ConJ'umptiens.

The ftill-bom founds upon the palate hung.
And dy'd imperfeli an the falt'ring tongue. Dryden.

Brevm.

As obfcure and imperfeB

Done

[imperattn.'Lit.l

with confcioufnefs j done by direction of
the mind.
The elicit internal afls of any habit may be quick
and vigorous, when the external imperate acfts of
the fame habit utterly ceafe.
South.
^'hofe natural and involuntary afiings are not
do»; by deliberation, yet they arc done by the energy
of the foul and inllrumentality of the fpirits, as well
as thafc imperate a&, wherein we fee the empire of

Lat.]

[itnperatif,

Commanding

;

worfhip is imperfeii.

Imperfe'ction.

n. f.

[iittfirfcQion,

Fr.

from imferfeli.] Defeft ; failure fault,
whether phyfical or moral; whether of
;

perfons or things.
Laws, as all other things human, are many lime*
of imperfe6iion\ and that which is fuppofed
behoveful unto men, pioveth oftentimes mol\ perfull

Hooiier,

nicious.

The duke had taken to wife Anne Stanhope, *
woman for many imperj'e^ions intolerable but for

of commanding, forbidding,

pride monftrous.

al-

difdllowing, intieating; which likewife,
from the principal ufeof it, it is called the imperative
Clarhe*i Latin Grammar.
mood.

Impe'ratively. eid-v. In a commanding
authoritatively.

Impehce'ptible.

[imperceptible, Fr.

adj.

Not tobe difcovered

;

not to be perceived ; fmall ; fubtle ; quick
or (low, fo as to elude obfervation.
Some things are in their nature imperceptible by
our fenfe ; yea, and the more refined parts of material exillence, which, by reafon of their fubii^iy,
Hale.
efcape our perception.
In the fudden changes of his fubjeft with almoA
imperceptible coaneitious, the

Thcban poet

is

his

Dryden.

roalter.

The parts mufl have their outlines in waves, refembling flames, or the gliding of a fnakc upon the
ground : they mufl be almoft imperceptible to the
Dryden,
touch, and even.

The alterations in the globe are very flight, and
almolt imperceptible, and fuch as tend to the beneH''ood.

of the earth.

Imperce'ptiblenISs.

».

/ [Uomimper-

Haytvard,

ImptrftCiions would not be half fo much taken
nonce of, if vanity did iMt make proclamation of

losving,

fit

Incite,

;

The verb is formed in a different manner, to fignify the inteution

ftyle;

men.

2. Frail ; not completely good : as, our bell

Fr. imperaexpreflive of

ideas often involve our

reafon, fo do dubious words puzzle

Hale.

Impe'rative. a<^'.

Bacon.

The ancients were imperfeli in the doflrine of
meteors, by their ignorance of gunpowder and fire-

Hammond,

What crowds of thefe, impenileurly hold.
In founds and jingling fyllables grown old.
Still run on poets I

in ind perceptible.]

Some will never believe a propofition in divinity,

things.
Something he left Imperfed in the (hte.
Which fince his coming forth, is thought of.
Which brought the kingdom fo much fear and danger.
That his return was moll required.
Sbakefp,
'
Opinion is a light, vain, crude, and impeifta

Milton.

command.

the (hew of nothing but difficulty in them, and are
thought to be wrapped up in i»ff»rtra^/f obfcurity.

defeftive.

When the reward of peftitents, and punilhment

Impe'nitently. eid'v. [from

AddiJon>

feQus, Lat.]
1

They died
Impenitent, and left a race behind

Dryden.

on ingiofs: things, thus offered to the mind, carry

;

and better unawares.

IMPE'RFECT. adj. [imparfait, Fr. imper.

HiM^er.

ti<vus,

The mind irights itfelf with any thing refle£ied

duracy

men's requell j as, on the other fide, the apoftle's
mercy not granted.

the foul.

The Cyclops did their ftrokes repeat.

Ir.penetraile to the ftars or fun.

ofrepentance; obdurate.
Our lord in anger hath granted fome impenitent

MP

tepttily, we are taught by furprirt, and became wifef

»'/»

fuit he hath of favour and

ufed in an ill fenfe.

The

and
FinaJly negligent of the duty

peniunt.]

;

I

Impe'kitent. tf,^'. [impetiiUHt, Fr.

Deftrutlion fute o'erall yoar ha6s imfenJs
UlylTcs comes, and death hi; litps aKcnds.
Pcfe.

2.

MP

I

Tc IMPE'ND. V. «. [imftudeo, Lat,]

L'Eflrange.
The world is more apt to cenfure than applaud,
and himfclf fuller oiimperfeilions than virtues.
Addifon^s SpeSiator.
Thofe are rather to be imputed to ihe fimplicity
of the age than to any iwperJeBion in ih.n divine
Addijcn.
poet.
thein.

Impe'rfeCTLY. adv. [from imperfeil.]
Not completely; not fully; not without
failure.
Should finking nations fummon you away,
Maria's love might juflify your ftay ;
Imperfeiily the many vows are paid.
Which for your fafety to the gods were made.
Stepney.
Thofe would hardly underftand language or reafon
to any tolerable degree ; but o.ily a little and imper.
Locke,
fcClly about things famihar.

Impe'rforaBle<7^'. [in ZTidperforo, Lat,]

Not to be bored through.
Imp e'r FOR ate. tidj. \in and ptr/oratm,
Latin.] Not pierced through ; without a

The quality of eluding obfer-

hole.
Sometimes children are born imperforate \ in
which c.ife a fmall punfture, dfelTcd with tent, efTea*

Many excellent things there arc in nature, which,
by reafon of their fubtilty and impeicrptiblenefs to
us, are not fo much as within any ot our (acuities to

IMPE'RIAL. adj. [imperial, Fr. imperieilis,

ceptible.]

vation.

apprehend.

Latin.]

Hale,
I.

Imperceptibly. aJv. [from impercepti-

Shmp,

the cure.

Royal;

poflefling royalty.
Aim he took

hlr.]

At a fair velUI, throned in the Weft;

advife Qurfeivcs : the moni kiiiflutcs itfdf imper-

QucDcb'd ia the chafte beams of tbe wat'ry moon.

In a manner not to be perceived.
Upon reading of a fable we arc made to believe we

But 1 might fee young Cupid's fiery ihaft

And

MP

I

IMP

And the impeiial vot'refs pifled on
In maiden meditation, fancy free.
2,

Betokening

Shakefpeare.

marking

royalty ;

My due from thee is t.h\%lmftr'ial zrovin.
Which, at immediate from thy place and blood.
3.

Sbaktff tare's Henry IV.

Belonging to an emperor or monarch

Impe'rtinENCE.

1

H. /. {impertinence, Vt.

regal J royal; monarchical.
'1 he miin body of the
marching fbc

I

M p E 'r T I N E N C Y

J

from impertinent. ]

1.

Againll th' /ur/xr/a/ palace is delign'd.

Dryden.

You that are a fov'reign prince, allay

Iwpe'ri ALisT. n. f. [from imperial.'\ One
a flight unto the Venetians.

IMPK'RIOUS. adj.
1 ,

[imferieux, Fr. imfi-

3.

;

tyrannical ;

Mare.

from parcnu or teachers have caufed in his thoughts.

Shaktfftare.

Who can abide, that, againft their own doctors,
6x whole books (hould, by their fatherhoods of
Trent, be under pain of a curfe, imperioujy obtruded upon Cod and his church ?
Hall.
It is not to infult and domineer, to lookdifdainfully, and revile imperioujly, that proc».es an efteem
from any one.
Souib.

Importunate ;

3.

Foolifti ; trifling;

is

,

dler;

officious impertinent.

2.

"

it

to

men who marry
Suck/in^.

the celellial hierachy, began to be fo
imper.
tinently importuned, that great part
of the liturgy
was .iddrefled folely to her.
Hookm
in

me all this it only fan:y ?
me enjoy it.

to tell

wound,

let

If « is a

dream,
Addifon.

Impertran'sfbility. »./ fin ind per.
tranfeo,

Lat.j

Impoffibility to be paffcd

through.

Imperffmah be declined ihmughout all moods
'«'°^'^

as

The blcflcdnefs of mortals, now the highell faint

Not varied according

tenfes, a verb imperfonal hath

1 willingly declined thofe many ingenious rcafons
given by others; at of the imperirarjitiliiy of eler-

and

no nominative cafe

nity, and impoflibility therein to attain to the
prefent limit of antecedent ages.
Hale

yiee.dence.

iMPERSONALLr. ad-v. [from imperfonal]

According to the manner of an imper-

IWPE'RVIOUS. adj. [imperviui, Lat.J

fonal verb.

I.

I M P t R 3 U A 'S I B I, E . erf/.

impetus, Lat.]
I.

Violent; forcible;

fierce.

Their virtue, like their Tyber'sflood,
Rolling its courfe, defign'd their country's good
;
But oft the torrent's too impetuous fpeed

From the low earth tore fome polluted weed. Prior,
2.

Vehement of mind ; paflionate.
The king, 'tit true, is noble, but impetuous.
PirU'e.

J

Impe'tuoosly.
Violently;

[from impetiiotis.}
vehemently: both of men
ad-v.

and things.
They view the windings of the hoary Nar;

-

Through rocks and woods impetuoujly he glides.
While froth and loam the fretting lurface hides.
Addifon.

Why will any man be fo impertinently oKcwus as Impe'tuousness. n. f. [from impetuous.]

^^ "*"« "'S""' ^fiVi.
Milton.
adj. \imperjr.„d, Fr. im.

Lat.]

ofiicioufly; intrufively.
have had joy given me as prtpofteroufly, and

impertinently, as the. give
where they do not love.

to the perfons.

-

Troublefomely ;
1

[imperiffabU, Fr. in

IMPE'RSONAL.
ferfonalh,

IMPE'TUOUS. adj. iimpetueux.YuUom

Without relation to the prefent matter.

1

Not to be deftroycd.
We find this otir empyreal form
•""'

VF.flrange.

by hit fpirit and impeiut-

Clarendon.
The mind gives not only licence, hut incitation to
the other paflions to take their freert range, and aft
with the utmofl impetuofiiy.
Decay of Piety

Governours would have enough to do to trouble
with tke politicks of every meddling

lMri's.TlttEliTLY. ad-v. [{romimpertiuenl.]

fo violently purfued

fi'y-

their heads

anAferiJh.]

t.^.'Jli.^.'"?''*'

Sbakefp. T-welfth Nigbt.

The whole intrigue was contrived by the duke,
and

one who enquires or
interpofes where he has no right or call.

ill way of
own to guide

Incapable ol mortal injury,
Imperijhable ; and though pierc'd with

opinion of his rage, (kill, fury, and impetuofiiy.

meddling.

an intruder;

Violence; fury; vehemence;

I will fct upon Aguecheek a
notable report of
valour, and drive the gentleman into a moft hideout

n.f A

Loeke

Imperishable, adj.

'I

negligent of the pre-

'Tis not a fign two Iover» are together, when they
can be fo impertinent as to enquire what the woild
<>"<=',
Pope.
,
Impe'ryinknt.
trifler; a med-

but an

'*'"",•

impetuous.
force.

fent purpofe.

Garib.

Arrogance of command.

intrtifive ;

is

Impetuo'sity. n. f. [impetuoftt'e, Fr. from

Titlotfon.

2.

Impe'riousnesj. w./. [from //B/m««r.j
1. Authority; air of command.

Sidney.

Fr. in

Hooker.
The contemplation of thiogs that are impertinent
to uj, and do not coucero us, are but a more fpe-

'

our hopes.

Taylor.
the greateft folemnity of prayer, the moft
powerful liturgy, and meant of impetration in thii
world.
Taylor.
It

impertinent unto the affairs of the church of God.

The fagc, tranfported at th approaching hour,

So would he ufe Vrfimperioujnefs, that we had a
delightful fear and awe, which made ua
loth to lofe

it-

.

[impertinent.

cious idlenefs.

Who is there, that knocketh fo imperioufly t

•means of impetration, and the meritorious caufe of

fPatts.

Of no relation to the matter in hand ; of
no weight.
The law of angels we cannot judge altogether

with in-

Imperioujly thrice ihundcr'd on the floor !

The blefled facrament is the myftery of the death
of Chrift, and the application of his blood, which
was (hed for the rcmilTion of fins, and is the great

i.nA pertinent, Latin.]
1

[impetration, Fr. im-

much ufed.

many painful (rifles, even among the

Impe'rtinent. adj.

im-

[impetrer, Fr.

Lat.] The aft of
obtaining by prayer or intreaty.
Not

the happinels or convenience of

mathematical theorems and problems,

Lixlie,

2. Powerful J afcendant ; overbearing.
A man, by a vaft and imperious mind, and a
heart large as the fand upon the fea (hore, could
commaad all the knowledge of nature and art.
TiUafon.
Impe'riously. adv. [from imperious.^

treating men, who have reafon of their

to

a.

petratio, from impetro,

Addifon.

fchools, and

!

Imperioufnefs and fevcrity

Impetra'tion.w./.

There are many fubtle impertinencies learnt in the

fuffer*d, and how long I ftrove

With arrogance of command;
folence of authority.

relation

mackmd.

-d.

To obtain by intreaty. Dia.

pelio, Lat.]

Evelyn.
Nbthing is more eafy than to reprefent as impertinencies any parts of learning, that have no imme-

diate

to

Poflible

Di&.

To I'mpetrate.

thing of no value.

folid contentment.

Siake/p. Ant. and Cleap.

Lat. impelrabk, Fr.]

be obtained.

1 envy your felicity, delivered from the gilded
impertinencies of life, to enjoy the moments of a

Againll ih' alfaults of this imperious love
Dry den.
Recolledl what diforder hafty or imperious words

2.

Trifle;

4.

He is an imperious diflator of the principles of
I

pctro,

pedants, who aflfefl to talk in a language not to be
underltood.
Swift.

Of the full fortun'd Caefar ever (hall

How much

an art no way fuitable to

We ihould avoid the vexation and impertinence of

Not *h' imperiout Ihow

vice, and impatient of all contradiflion.

Pope's Odyf/ey.

The ftate of not admitting any pafl!age.
Impeti'gi.vous. adj. [from impetigo, Lat.]
Scurfy
covered with fmall fcabs.
I'mpetrable. adj. [impetrabili I, from im-

with intrufion and impertinency. ff'otton's ArcbiieB.

This imprr has min will work us all
From princes into pages.
Sbakefp. Henry VIII.

Be brooch 'd with me.

And clear of rocks.

Impe'rviousness. »./ [from impervtoia.]

;

authorita-

Sfenfer.

Perhaps improperly ufed.

A river's mouth impervious to the wind.

my employments or fortune, and fo Hand charged

mand.

To

2. Inacceflible.

Troublefomenefs ; intrufion.

haughty ; arrogant ; affuming com-

If it be your proud will
Ihew the r«wer of your imperious eyes.

Arbutbnot.

From the damp earth Impervious vapours rife,
Increafe the darknefs, and involve the Ikies.
Pope^

Shakifp. King Lear.

It will be faid 1 handle

Commanding
tive ;

by the fluids.

Folly ; rambling thought.
O, matter ar>d impertinency mixt,
Reafon and madnefs

KmlJrs's Hijicy,

Lat.]

riaj'us,

Neu'lon's Opticks.

A great many vcflels are, in this ftate, impervious

That which is of no prefent weight;
that which has no relation to the matter

z.

Boyle.

.

The caufe of rcfleflion is not the impinging of
"ght on the folid or impertiiiut parts of bodies.

Some though they lead a fingle life, yet their
thoughts do end with themfclves, and account future
times impertinencies.
Bacon.

Dryden.

that belongs to an emperour.
The Imferialijis imputed the caufe of fo (hameful

itlslf-

in hand.

ImferUl^ve'x with your paternal fway.
DrjJen.
To tame the proud, the fetter'd flaves to free,
Thefe are Imperial arts, and worthy thee.

.

MP

ImpaffaMc, /w/ifctaVaj; let us try
To found a path from hell to that new world. Milt.
We may thence difcein of hoy clofe a texture
glafs is, fince fo very thin a film proved fo impervious
to the air, that it was forced to break the glals
to free

iion.
Every pious perfon ought to be a Noah, a prtacher
of righteoufnefj j and if it be his fortune to have as
imperjuajihie an auditory, if he cannot avert the
deluge, it will yet deliver his own foul, if he cannot
benefit other men's.
Decay of Piety

fove-

reignty.

Derives itfelf to me.

I

Not to be moved by perfua-

Latin.]

[/« and per/uafiliU,,

Unpaflabic ; impenetrable.
Let the difficulty ol palTing back
Stay his return, pcrhapt, oyer this gulf

Violence; fury; vehemence of paffion.
I

wilh all words or rage might vani(h in that breath

that utters

them;

that as they refcmble the

wind

and impeluoufnefs, fo they might in tranfientnefs.
Ofcay of Piety,
in fury

I'MFETUS. »./

[Latin.]

dency to any point

;

Violent ten.

violent effort.

Why did not they continue their defcent 'till they
were contiguous to the fun, whither both mutual
attraflions and /'<n/>f/»r carried them ? Bentley'sSer.

Impie'rceable. adjr'.

[in -md pierce.]

Im-

penetrable ; not to be pierced.
Enceediiig raje inflam'd the funous beaft;

6 K »

lor

IMP
Tar never felt hit imfierctjhlt breaft
So wond'roiu force from hand of living wight.
Sptnftr.

Impi'etv. »./. impiete, French;

ably.

imfietas,

kept up the apprehenCons in the people of dangers,
and diCnclined them from the queen, whom they
begun every day more implaeally to hate, and conClarendcn.
fequently to difoblige.

con-

Than Jephtha's, when he facrific'd his daughter.
Shakf/feari.

2. An aft of wickednefs; expreflion of irIn this fenfe it has a phiral.
religion.
If ihey die unprovided, no more is the king guilty
of ihofe impieties fei which they are now vifited.
Shahffrare.
Detiham.
Can Juno fucli imflellfs approve ?

Love thee implacaily,'ytt hate thee too.

To infix

How can you him unworthy then decree.
In whofe chief part your worths implanted be ?
Sidney.
See, Father !

Which Nature has implanted in the mind. Dryden,

to make fat.
;
more fill and impivguate the

body than ejtercife:

for that in fridlions the inward

To fatten

Bacon.

parts are at reft.

I'M PIOUS,

adj.

\impius,

Latin.]

yet not opened, when I am confident of
the writer's veracity.
There be falfe peaces or unities, when the peace

may believe a letter

grounded but upon an implicit ignorance ;

is

for all

Bacon.

colours will agree in the dark.
^^o longer by implicit faith we err,
Whilft every man's his own interpreter.

Denb.jm.

preffed.

fuade.

The divine infpe£iion into the aS^irs of the world
doth necetrarily follow from the nature and being of
God ; and he that denies this, doth implicitly deny
his exiftcnce; he may acknowledge what he will
with his mouth, but iu his heart he hath faid there
is no Cod.
Bcntlry.

Nothing can better improW political fchool-boys
than the art of making plaunble or implaufihle harangues againft the very opinion for which they re•
Swi/t.
folve to determine.

I'mplement. n./. \_imphmentum, from impleo, Lat.]

Hmker.

Something that fills up vacancy, or ftip-

1

By connexion with fomcthing elfe
with unrcferved confidence
depcndcntly
or obedience.

2.

;

plies wants.

Unto life mmy implements are necefiary; more,

My blulhing mufe with confcious fear retires,

if we feek fuch a life as hath in it joy, comfort, de-

Inftrumen: of manufafture;

2.

tools of a

trade; veffels of a kitchen.

Wood hath coined feventcen thoufand pounds, and
hath his tools and implements to coin fix times as
much.

S-wi/t.

the praflice of the eaftern regions for the
artifls in metals to carry about with them the whole
implements of trade, to the houfe where they find
It

And whom they like, implicitly admires. Rofcomtnm.

Ho'jker.

light, and pleal'ure.

is

Learn not to difpute the meihodsof hisprovidence;
but humb?)' and implicitly to acquiefce in and adore
them.
Atterhiry.
We implicitly follow in the track in which they
lead us, and comfort ourfelves with this poor refledion, that we Ihall fare as well at thofe that go
before us.
Rogers.

To IMPLO'RE. -v.

Imple'tion. ft./,

[impleo, Lalln.]

The

Im P

Intricate;
I. e'x. /?///. [implexus, Latin,]
entangled ; complicated : oppofed lo Jim-

The Roman wit, who impiou/ly divides
His hero and his gods to difieieol tides,
Cianville.
I would condemn.
Implacabi'lity. n./. [from implacable.^

pie.
Every poem is e'xihcrJfmpU or impiex : it is called
fimpU when there is no change of fortune lo it;
impliXy when the fortune ot the chief ador clungcs
Spt^lMor.
from bad to good, or from good to bad.

Inexorablcnefs ; irreconcileablc enmity;
unappeafible malice.
LMl'LA'CABLE. adj. [implacabilis, Lat.
implacable, Vt.'\ Not to be pacified ; inexorable; malicious; condant in enmity.

To I'M PLICATE. 'V. a. [implifUfr. Fr. implico, Latiti.]

To entangle

to involve ;

to infold.

;

to embarrafs

The ingredients of faltpetre do fo mutually implitate and hinder each other that the concrete aCls
Boyle,
but very languidly.

His incenfcment is fo implacatle, that fatisfadiion
Sbake/p,
can be none but by pangs ol death.

Darah bears a generous mind :
But to implacatle revenge inclin'd ;

Implica'tion. ». /.
Dryden.

French, from implicate,^
Involution; entanglement.

plication,

The French are the moft implac.ttle and the moft
I.

Addijon.
I

[implicn/io, hat, im-

to folicit.

;

Imploring all the gods that reign above.
fope't Odyjfej.

5rc>1t'B.

fanely; wickedly.

French;

They (hip their oars, and crown with wine
The holy goblet to the pow'rs divine.

tion, there may fucceed a difruption of the matrix.

Pro-

[implerer,

To call upon in fupplication

I.

aft of filling; the ftate of being full.
Thcophraftus conceiveth, upon a plentiful imple-

Fortes.

a.

implcro, Lat,]

Broome.

employment.

fope.
Grand miSakes in religion proceed from taking
literally what was meant figuratively, from which
feveral impious abfurditics followed, terminating in

dangerous enemies of the B. itilh nation.

Hefting upon another; connefted with
another over which that which is connefted to it has no power ; trufting without referve or examination. Thus, by

3.

implicit credulity, I

Irreli-

They, impious, darM to prey

A bo'jntcous matier, but a deadly foe.

Thornfon.

Impla'usible. c<^'. \inar\A plaujible.'\ Not Impli'citly. adi;. [from implicit.]
Ipecious; not likely to feduce or per- 1. By inference coraprifed, though not cx-

On herds devoted to the god of day.

inhdelity.

And bufh with frizzled hs'ir implicit.

2. Inferred; tacitlycomprifcd; notexprclTed.
In the firft elUblifhment of fieccTi there was an
implicit compact founded upon common confent
that fuch and fuch words (liould be figns, whereby
they would exptcfs their thoughu one lo another.
South.
Our exprefs requcfts are not granted, but the implicit delires of our hearts arc fultillcd.
Smalridge.

was no more obliged to implant thofe innate'
notions in his mind, than that, having given him
rcafon, hands, and materials, he Ihould build him
Locke.
bridges.

planting; the aft of enfixing or fettling.

Milton.
Ceafe then this impious rage.
Then lewd Auchemolus he laid in dull,
Who ftain'd his ftcpdame's bed with impious lull.
Dryden.
Ani impious mtioas feat'd eternal night. DiyJ.
the
poition
of the
is
generally
Shame and reproach
South.
impious and irreligious.
When vice prevails, and impious men bear fway,
Addijon.
The poft of honour is a private ftation.
Since alter thee may rife an impious line,
Ccatfc manglers of the human tace divine
Faint on, 'till fate diffolve thy mortal part,
And live and die the monarch of thy art. tickell.

1'mpiocslt. adv. [from imfious.']

Popt.

ther cartilage, capable of motion by the help of fome
Kay.
mufgles that were implanted in it.
God having endowed man with faculties of know-

Implanta'tION. n. /. [implaritation, Fr.
from implant.'] The aft of fetting or

giousi wicked; profane; without reverence of religon.
That Scripture ftandeth not the church of God in
any ftcad to direct, but may be let pafs as needlcfs to
beconfulted with, we judge it profane, impious, and
irreligious to think.

complicated.

The humble (hrub,

ing,

The caufe of refleftion is not the impiitging of

infolded ;

Fr. implicit ui,

In his woolly fleece

There grew to the outfiJeof the arytenoides ano-

light on the folid or imjiervious parts of bodies.

FriiSions alfo do

Milton.

No need of public fanftions this to bind.

Things are referved in the memory by fome corporeal exuvia and material images, which, having
impinged on the common fenfc, rebound thence into
Glanville.
fome vacant cells of the brain.

Latin.]

what firft-fruits on earth are fprung,

From thy implanted grace in man

with.

[implicite,

I cling implieit.

;

meaning, of putting a vegetable into the
ground to grow, is not often ufcd.

to ftrikc againft ; to clalh

unA finguis,

Entangled ;

Dryden.

to infert ; to place ; to engraft
to fettle ; to fet ; to fow. The original

-S^v//.

Neivton's Opticks,

Though civil caufes, according to fame men, are
of lefs moment than criminal, yet the dodlors are^
by implication, of a difiitrent opinion.
Ayliffe's Parergon,

This fenfc is rare.

To Impla'nt. -v. a. \_inzniplanto, Latin.]

To Impi'gnorate. <v. a. {in and fignm,
Latin.] To pawn; to pledge.
iMPrcNORATioN. «./. [trom /«//faor<7/c.]
The aft of pawning or putting to pledge.
Ti Impi'noe. 'v.n. [/w^i/z^o, Latin.] To

[/«

culcated.

1.

I love,

fuch amaiing impieties can be equalled
by nothinz but by ihofe cities confumed of old by

To Impi'nguate. v. a.

Boylt,

not expreffcd, but tacitly in-

And 'tis below my greatnefs to difown it

We have a melancholy profpefl of the (late of our

againft;

ponent parts.
2. Inference

IMPLI'CIT. adj.
It is once ufed by Dryden in a kind of
Latin.]
mixed fenfe of a tyrant's love.

2.

religion :

fiie.

Three principal caufei of firmnefs are the groflnefs,
the quiet contait, and the implication of the com-

An order was made for difarming all the papifts
upon which, though nothing was after done, yet it

1. Irreverence to the Supreme Being;
tempt of the duties ofreligion.
To keep that oath were more imp'itly

MP

I

luPi.A'cABLV.arfw. [from mplauhlt.\
1. With malice not to be pacified ; inexor-

Latin.]

fall

MP

I

To aflc

z.

to beg.

;

Do not fay 'tis fuperftition, that
I

kneel, and then implore her blefling.

Stakefp. H'inter's Tale,

Implo're. «./. [from the verb.] The aft
of begging ; intreaty ; folicitation. Not
in ufe.

Urged fore

With piercing words and pitifuliK^orf,

Him hafty to arife.

Imp lo'r 1 r

.

ti.f.

hairy Queen.

[from implore.]

Solicitor.

Merc imploren of unholy fuits,
Breathing, like fan^ified and pious,

The betier to beguile.

Soake/prare's Hamlet.

l^v\.\3't.iho.adj. {implt4mis,'La.ua.]

out feathers.

WithDifl.
Tt>

^'I'M P
Tb Imply', v. a,

I IVf
would

French; /«-

\implijuer,

flko, Latin.]
I. To unfold; to cover; to intangle.

Not

His courage flout,

3.

Srriving to loofe the knot iiiatfaft him ties,

And Phosbus flying fo moff (hamtful fight,
f'aiij Quern,

To involve orcomprife as a confequence

it is

Whdt follows next is no objeflion j lor ihat im-

Dryden.
Bows the ftrength of brawny arms imply,
Emblemsofvalour, and of viaory.
Drydeit.

""i''-

.Unlock.

Milion.
It may import us in this calm to
hearken more
than we have done to the llorms that are now raifinr

2.

T"
-n
T
Tokiil
withpoifon.

1.

This is rare. See

Empoison.
A man by his own alms tmpKf'.n'd,

Joadftone, it will,

2.

Brovjn

IMPOUTICAL.T adj. [i„ and politick.]
iMPOLiTicjc. /
Imprudent jindifcreeti
He that

eihorieth to bewareof an enemy's
policy,
doth not give counfel to be
Imf.lidck^ but rather to
urea 1 prudent forefight and
circumfpeftion, leil our
<"npl'c.iybeom.reachMbycunningflighis, Hooker

IMPOLI TiCALLV. 1 adv. [/»and Wr/W.l
IMPOLITICKLY. ; Without art or fore-

ports.

accented by Spin/er on the firft
/yllable.
It IS ufed in the Apocrypha.
Both at once him charge on either fide.
With hideous lirokes and imporlMe power.
That forced him his ground to travcrfe
wide.

adj. [/„ and pc«drr,«s.]
Void of perceptible weight.

,nJ?"?u " "'^'r' "'' '"' "^'^ ^y impo„Jerou,
and
Bru^„', Vuhar E<rou.>

Imporos.ty.*./. {in ^n& porous.]

Abfence

o| inarftices ; compaftnefs
;
clofenefs.
1 he porofily or imforofuy betwixt
the tangible
pans, and the greatnels or

Imallnefs of the pores

Impo'roi;s. odj [/« and /»,„«,.]
Free from
pores; free Irom vacuities or
interftices;

cJoIe of texture; completely

And wifely watch to ward that deadly ftour.
T

Fairy Queen.

1

Impo'rtance. n./. [French.]
I. Thing imported or implied.
Rare.
A notable paflion of wonder appeared in them

z.

Not in ufe.

Brnm's Vulgar Erroun.

3.

Confequence; moment.

2.

ulmoft fpeeJ,
'/»f«« twelve mara, which there luxurious feed.
''''''"

Shakefi..

To imply; to infer.

Maria writ
The letter al fir Toby', great importance
Jn recompence whereof he hath
married her.

I.

Himfelf no, only comprehended

all our neceffiiies
but in n,ch fort alfo frdmeJ
every petition

mod naturally ferv. for many

as

m It,;

:

'',!;d"doth." ^outh

NT. ari)-.

of difciplioe

imported „„,

a. "hey

Importer. n.j:[\xom. import.]

One that

brings in from abroad.
It

ii

impoflible to limit the quantity that

(hall be

brought in, efpecially if the /mjOo^frj
of it have fo
lure a market as the Exchequer.

Impc'ryless.

Siuift

adj.

[from import.]

Of no

moment or confequence. 1 his is a word
not in ufe, but not inelegant.

We lefs expea
That matter needlefs, of importlefs burthen

IaSi^^^ATE. adj. [impo^:^^^
X\n-, importune, French.]
Unfeafonable
and inceffant in folicitations ; not to
be

Shaltefp
They may not be able to bear the :Iamour
of an
,<nporiuna,e fuitor.

A rule i-eftrains the moft /«^or/»»a,, Smahidsre.
appetites of

our nature.

Robert
ad-v.

[from impcrtul

With inceflant folicitation per;
tinacioufly in petition.
Their pertinancy is fuch, that when you

note.]

[importani, French.]

quence.

The moft important and prcffing care of a

new

"" '''• ">"fi»8'^. for mediate
IVolton

This funeradds treachery to the
crime
'tis the
tallilying the moft importunl
Hull.
Decay of fiely

and

fo unporiuuateiy tioubU-fome,
as makes many
think It impolTible to be freed from them.
Duppa.

Impo'rtunateness „./. [from
Innate.]

import

Inceflant folicitation.

She with more and more importunalene/s
craved,
which, in all good manners, was either
of us to be
dclired.ornot granted.
SH^,„

importunus,

Momentous; weighty; of great confe-

'*.'"!

Adiijon

has forbidd«n the importation
of
empire.
Addifon on Italy.

r.IMPORTU'NE^.^. [i„por,uner.

Shaiefp,

A krT""' of the
eftablilhment
royal line.

tht name

Pope.

4. Importunity.
liar to Shake/peare.

II
M PORTA

The emperor

their manulaaures into any part of the

drive

Th' importance of Cyprus to the Turks.
I hy own importance
know,
Nor bound thy narrow views to things

For El.s I would fail with
1

importation of corn from foreign parts.

are

below.

To carry into any country from
abroad ;
oppofed to export.

numbers*
to bear without the

them out of one form, ihey alTume another*

We confider

An improper ufe pecu-

/oJMrU'RT. 'v.a. [/«/or/<7, Latin.]

Dacon.

Thefe mines fill the country with greater
ol people than it would be able

Impo'rtunately.

been pity you (hould have been put
together Willi fo moilal a purpofe, as then
each bore
upon •mp'.riance of fo Oight a nature.
Sbakejp.

equal
Wlocity, being all perfeflly
folid and imporou,, they
would never tlie one ovrruke the
other.

1

;

It had

atomi fhould defcend plumb
down with

Th« king's reafonable profit fhould not be negIcfled upon imforiation and exportation.

I was in debt to my importunate bufinefs
but ha
j
woJld not hearmyexcufe.

^Shake/p. IVinurSrale.

T;
rL. „
Matter; fuhjeft.

exportation.

repulfed.

but the wileft beholder, that knew
no more but feeing, could not fayifthe/w/w/az/rrwerejoy
orfor-

folid.

'"'f' ''"/°"«'> «"» "0'
'"
d!fc
edbby ",
Y'<
dilcreted
atomical
terminations.
.

,

Impo'rtable. adj. [in and portable.] Unfupportable; not to be endured. A
word

Impo'ndeRovs

It

g

our imports ought not to exceed
our ex-

caff.

,,

made in mineral

3. Any thing imported from abroad; as,

void ofartorforecaft.

invifible en.urions.

^J^,

fubrtances

Sbake/p.

I

into a country from abroad :
oppofed to

SBake/f.

,-

of the fame import

Great France

My mourning and important tears hath pitied.
The
ad or pradice of importing, or bringing

Tendency.
Add to the former obfervationsmade about vegeta-

bles a third

SeelMPORTANCE.

T

ofthecaufe.

its poles.

:

Who fooii prepai"d to field, his fword forth drew.

And him with equal valour countervail'd. Faity SK
3. Importunate. A corrupt ufe of the word!

Impcrta'tion. ti.f.[iTova import.]

When there is any difpute, the judge ought to
appoint the fum according to the eloquence
and ability of the advocate, and in
proportion to the import

more virorous

m a fliort time, exchange

/•

Momentous ; forcible ; of great efficacy.'
This feems to be the meaning here.
He fiercely at him flew.
And with important outrage him alfail'd

2.

Dryden.

home tbufinefs of import that triumph wears
'" *" "'*''•
^'^''- ""^ ^"'' Oedipus.
«,L "

according to the direaion of the
poles.
^
Little uled.
Being imfoUrily adjoined unto
a

.

Importance; moment; confequence.
What occafion of import
c

Shakefp
[in and/o/ar.]
^ot

ad-v.

•

1

Hath all fo long detain'd you from your wife ?

And with his charity Qain.

Impo'larily.

Soutb.
txamine how the falhionable praflice of the world
can be reconciled to the important doarine
of our
"''/'O"'
Roger,.
Important truths ftill let your fables
hold.
And moral myfteries with art unfold.
Cranvil'e.
Th' important hour had pafs'd unheeded by.

"^"V'

u^.
.
1 endure it, what imports it you ?
Impo'rt. n.f. [from the verb.]
1

Shake/peart.

-/.

Bacon.
where
Bacon.

Imporit not, if thou reckon right.

One doih not know
How much an ill word Joih impcifin liking.
•

armies Importetb not much,

This to attain, whether heav'n move, or earthj

To corrupt with poifon.
1

.

People IS of weak courage.

•Jie

yalMPo'isoN. -v. a. [empoifaner, French.
It might be written empoiJ'on.'\
1.

^

Number in

Where a malicious 3.&. is proved, a malicious in-

tention is implitd.

Shakeff.

Let the heat be fuch as may keep the metal perpetually molten; for that above all importeti to
the

/>//« a tault.

.

The great important end that God defigns religion

government of mankind fufficiently Ihewj
the neceflity of its being rooted deep
in the heart, and
put beyond the danger of being torn up
by any ordi.
nary violence.

To be of moment; as, it imports,
of weight or confequence.

Importah thee to know, this bears.

make

When the moft jull have caufe to quake ? Rofcom,

Her length of ficknefs, with whatelfe more ferious

Tliat it wds in ufe among the Greeks, the
word
triclinium impliclb.
Broivn'i l^ulgar Errours.

(Iiall I

for, the

To produce in confequence.

\y-]

or concomitant.

MP

To fave my laft important ftake.

That his return was .tioII requir'd.
Shake/p.
4. [Importer, importe, lirench. Imperfonal-

His Wufhing face in foggy clouds imp/in.
,

I

O then whatintereft

Which fince his coming forth is thought of, which
Imporis the kingdom" fo much fear and danger.

Fairy Suren,

.

P

conftrued j

Something he left imperfca in the date.

^' Himfellin ftraigiiler bonds toorafti implies.

2.

it

but the felt'-fame
thing It fignifieth which the name of doarine doth.
Hooker,
This queftion we now aflted, imported, as that
we thought this land a land of magicians.
Bacoit.

in ufe.

*

have

fain

latin.

fI'

Accented anciently

on the fecond

To

fyllahlc-.l
tcize; to
harafs with flight vexation,
perpetually
recurring; to moleft.
Agaiiill all fcnfe you do
importune her.
Sbake/p.
If he efpied any lewd gaiety
in his fcllow.fervants,
his m.i(ter Ihauld llraitways
free tiom importuning,

:

'•

know it, and not reft

until the fellow had put awav

Care-w

The higheft faint in ih« ceUftial hiejarchy

began
ta

IMP
to

V

fo impen'inenlly

of the liturgy wu addreflcdfolcly to her.
HvwtiU Voeal Foreft.
TheWoom of beauty other years demacds.
Nor will be gailier'd by fuch wiiher'd haads
DryiiH.
You imfdriime it with a falfc detire.

Spenfer on Ireland.

Thou on the deep Impofejl nobler laws.
And by that juftice haft remov'd thecaufe.

which thus Importuni

We have been obliged to hire troops from feveral

To fix on

;

Sfei/tr.
Heniy, king of England, reeded not to have beftowed fuch great fums, norfo to have bufied himfelf

Simple Philoclea, it is the imfoffibility that doth
torment me ; for unlawful defites are punilhed after

on himfelf, and miflakes words
Locke,

the elfe£l of enjoying, but impolTible defires in the
dcfirc itfelf.
Sidney.

injunftion.

Boyle.

SLakefp.

Hammond.

Impo'ser. n.f. [from impo/e. \ One who
enjoins as a law
one who lays any thing
;

on another as a hardlhip.

Importu'nely. aJ'v. [from imforlune,']

1 he
repent.

The palmer bent his ear unto the noife,

pojitas,

Again he heard a more efforced voice,
Fairy ^ueen,

1.

The firft impojition of names was grounded among
all

Camden.

The impo^tion of the name is grounded only upon
the predominancy of that element, whofe name is
afcribtd to it.
Beyle.

man 01 a haughty fpiril, he altered bis former purpofe.
KHoUes.
Thrice I deluded her, and (um'd to fport
Milton' t Agonijles.
Her importunity.

3.

Injunftion ofany thing as alaworduty,

1'heir determination is to trouble you with no
morefuit; unlefs you may be won by fome other
fort than your father's impojition, depending on the

itn-

Sbalte/peare.

calkets.

Latin.]

To lay on as a burthen or penalty.

Arccptance of Urge grace ; from (ervile fear
To filial j works of law, to works of faith.

them.

r

To tyrants others have their country fold,

Milton,

The conftraint of receiving and holding opinions
by authority was rightly called impojition.
Locke.
A greater load has been laid on us than we have
been able to bear, and the grofleft imfofitionx have
been fubroilted to, in order to forward the dangerous

If » fon do fall into a lewd a£)ion, the imputation,

by your rule, (hould be impo/ed 011 the father.
Siair/p'
,

Impo/lng foreign lords for foreign gold. Dryd. /En.'
On impious reatmsand barb*rous W\n^% impofe
Thy plagues, and curfe them with fuch ills as thofe.

defigns of a fai^ion.

Sv.:J't.

Let it not be made, contrary to its own nature,
the occalion of ftrife, a narrow fpirit, and unrcafonable impofiiioni on the mind and practice. H^alts,

Pope.

To enjoin ar a duty or law.
What good or evil is there under the fun, what

5.

Cheat;

action correfpondent or repugnant unto the law which

6.

A fiipcrnumerary excrcife enjoined fcho-

Ood hath impojed upon his creaturesi but in or upon

faliacy ; importure.

lacs as a punilliiucnt.

z.

That which cannot be done.
Though men do, without otfcnce, wi(h daily that
the affairs, which with evil fuccefs are palt, might
have fallen out much betrer; yet to pray that they
may have been any other than they are, this being a
manifeft impcffibili'y in illelf, the rules of religion do
not permit.
Hooker,
Impoffibiiiiiet ! oh no, there's none.

Could 1 bring thy heart captive home.

CoviU^.

1'mpost. n.f, \i:npofi, impot, Erench, impoA tax ; a toll j a cuftoin
fttum, Latin. J
paid.
Taxes and impcjli upon merchants do fcldom good
for that that he wins in
the hundred, he lofeth in the (hire.
Bacon,

to the king's revenue;

Impo'sts. n.f,

[impojie,

French.]

In ar-

chitefture, that part of a pillar, in vaults

and arches, on which the weight of the
whole building lieth.
Aittfiuorth,
Impo'sthum ATE. f. «. [from impoflhume. ]
To form an abfcefs ; to gather ;
to form a cyft or bag containing matter.

The bruife impojihumated and afterwards turned
to a

(linking ulcer,

which made every body (hy to
Arbuthnot,

7i Impo'sthum ATE. t; a.

4. Conllraint; oppreflion.

Ex,ra, vii.

with ourlclves going before us in the paths of duty,
itconfutes all lazy pretences oi impojjibility. Rogers.

cime near her.

From impojition of ftrift laws, to free

It (hall not be lawful to imf^fe toll upon

1.

nations, upou future good hofe conceived of chil-

dren.

importunate.^

Inccffant folicitation.
Overcome with the importunity of his wife, a wo-

I.'

the prayer of

The aft of annexing.

2.

Importu'nity. »./. [importuniias, Latin:

French;

is

benedidion of the bilhop, made more folemn by the
impojition of hands*
Hammond.

Sanderfon.

pojittim,

Latin. ]

The aft of laying one thing on another.
The fecond part of confirmation

The conltitutions that the apoftles made concerning deacons and widows, are, with much importunity
but very imfcriunely urged by the difciplinarians.

\tmpoJer,

and the impojer of Ihefe oaths might
Walton.

Imposi'tion. n.f. \Jmpofition, French; im-

To weet what call'd fo importuncly

To IMPOSE.

univerfities' fuffcrings might be manifefted to

all nations,

Troubleforaely ; inceflantly.

a.

Murdering impojfibilily, to make
What cannot be, flight work. Shakefp. Coriolannt^
They confound difficulty with impojjibility Snutb,
Thofe who a(rcrt the impojfibility of fpace cxilbtig
without matter, muft make body infinite.
Locke.
When we fee a man of like pallions and weakneft

adj,

No fair to (hine

Me

If'bitgiftt,

Let the mutinous winds

Not in ufe.

[from itnpofe.'\ To be
laid as obligatory on any body.
They were not fimply impojeahle on any particular
man, farther than he was a member of fome church.

Olanviile's Scepjis,

<v.

to be pollible and convenient.

Strike the proud cedars 'gainft the fiery fun.

am thus early come.

Impo'seabi. E.

3. Unfeafonable ; coming, afking, or happening at a wrong time.

French, from

Admit all thefe impojfibilitin and great abfurditiet

To put the pages

According to your ladylhip's impnfe

Equivalent, or fecond ! which compell'd
thus, though importune perhaps, to come
Milton,
And gaze and worlhip tliee.

Imprafticability ; the ftate of being not
feafible.

Impo'se. n.f. [from the verb.] Command ;

I

Ifalfii,

impofjiblr,']

to carry the forms to prefs.

delightful ttanfports, to others arc importune.

import uniti,

With hope of things impojffiiile to find.

Impossibility. n.J'. impojibilite , Fr. from

on the ftone, and fit on the chafes, in order

Hammtiid.

my own thoughts deceive,

He that thinks the word centaur (lands for fome

[Among printers.]

6.

The fame airs, which fome entertain with moft

That bade him come in hartc.
2, Unfeafonably ; improperly.

LkU.
I

Phyficians and philofophers have fuffered them-

for things.

importune rebellious fervani (hall be eternally cali off,
this would be fome colour lor that novel perfuafion

1.

where in its progrelii in this fpace, how far foever it

I .

real being, impofes

Spenfer,

Chillingvjortb.

mind (hould be ftopped an/

extends its thoughts.
Lxke.
We cannot believe it impoffible to God to maks
a creature with more ways to convey into the ucderftanding the notice of corporeal things than five,

Brnun.

preparations they never tried.

If the upper foul can check what is confented to
by the will, in compliance with the 6clh, and can
then hope, that after a few years of fcnfuality, that

Mat. xix. 26.

It is impoffible the

felves to be io far impofedupon as to publilh chymical

Do ferve to them, and with importune might

but with

Decay of Piety,

deceive.

Troublefome; vexatious.
And th' armies of their creatures all, and fome

impoffille;

Difficult it is, but not impijjible.

to impute to.

Our poet thinks not fit
T* impo/e upon you what he writes for wit. Dryden.
To put a cheat on ; to
5. To Impose tm.

with importune and incelTant labour, to compafs my
death and ruin, if I had been a feigned perfon.
Bacon's Htnry VII.

it

if that which thould legitimate it is fubfequent to it.

To obtrude fallacioufly.

4.

it

'Twcre imfojpkle for any cnterprifc 10 be lawful,

nativity itfelf.

All that charge did fervently apply.

War againft us, the vaflals of their will.

With men

things arc pollible.

This cannot be allowed, except we impute that
unto the firft caufc which we imp'Je not on the fecond ; orwhat we deny unto nature, we impute unto

troublefome by

2 M.^,
Cod aU

quiet.

This hour (hall bring you twenty thoufand hands.
Dryden,
It was neither impojed on me, nor lb much as the
fubjeft given me by any man.
Dryden.
3.

With greedy malice and importune toil t
And planted there their huge artillery.
With which they daily made moll dreadful battery.

2.

imprafticable.
It was impojible that the ftate fliould oontinue

li'aller.

Tlltot/on.

It

on the fecond fy liable.]
Conftantly recurring ;
frequency.

Progrefi of DifevHttnti

ImPo'ssIBLE.«<//. [impqfible, Fr. in zwA poffible.'l Not to be done; not to be attained;

Intpofe but your commands,

was anciently pronounced with the accent
1.

To light my pipe, or pleafe my pride.

agreeable to the prime and fundamental laws of it.

princes of the empire, whofe minifters and refidcnti
here have perpetually imfortuxed the Qomt with unStui/i.
realbnable demands.

Impo'rtu'ne aJj. [impcrtuHut, Latin.

Thefe iaptifitiom were fupplyMf

Chriftianity hath hardly impo/ed any other laws
upon us, but what are enacted in our natures, or are

the undetlUnding,andhindcritfrom being employed.
Locke.

MP

I

There was a thorough way made by the fword for
the impofing of the laws upon them.

Etery one hath etperimented this trouklefome intrufion of fome frilking ideas,

MP

I

' it Cod Jdth
worVi *cix>tding to the law l^hich hliU*
Hooter.
felf hath eternally purpofed to keep ?

Imfortimti, that t gKat part

To aiHift with

an impofthume.
They would not fly that furgeon, whofe lancet
threatens noue but the impojlhumatfd parts.

Decay of Piety.

Imposthuma'tion, n.f. [iioxn imprfthumate.'\ The aft offorming an impofthurae
;

the ftate

in

which an impoflhume

is

formed.
He that maketh

the wound bleed inwards, endangereth malign ulcers and pernicious impojibumaliotts.
Bacon's Effayi,

IMl'O'STHUME. n.f [This feems to have
been formed by corruption from impoftem,
as

MP

I

it j

been

erroneoufly

written

and impoftem to have

hi

apofttm,

Now rotten difeafci, rupL, ;s, catarrhs, and bladmake prepollerous difco-

of imfojlhutnes,

Delay leads impotent and fnail-pac'd beggary.
Shakefpeare.
forced to labour.

Shame and pain, poyer(]r and ficknefs, yea death
and hell itfelf, are but the trophies of thofe fatal con-

4. Without power of propagation.
He told beau Prim, who is thought impotent,
that his miftrcfs would not have him, becaufe he
is a floven, and had committed a rape.
Tatler.

Impo'sture.

It.

/. [ImfoJIure

1'mpotentlt.

French; im-

adv.

[from

perfons or things a falfe charafter.
That the foul, and angels have nothing to do with

Ignobly vain, anii impolentJy gteM,
Shew'd Rome her Cato's figure drawn in ftate.

i$ generally opinioned; but who is
that retains not a great part of the imfojlurt, by
allowing them a deiinitive ubl, which is Itill but

7a Impound,

G/airviUt's Scfffs.

1.

while his army believed him real in his zeal againft
kinglhip ; but when they found out the imfofiure,
afpirinj to the fame himfelf, he was prefentjy dcferted, and never able to crown his ufurped
greatnels with that title.

Seeing

I'm p o T E N c Y

.

J

T

.

"-J- ""P"""""' Latin

.

Want of power; inability; irabecillity;
weaknefs.
Some were poor by imfotency ^nature; as young

I.

and
«r'PI>'«Sir
J. Haj-ward.
VVcaknefj, or the imfoteiut of eiercifing animal
motion, attends feveis.
Arbuihnot.
Cod is a friend and a father, whofe care fupplies
our wants, and defends our impoter.ct, and (torn
whofe compaiEon in Chrift we hope for eternal glory

i. Ungoveraablenefs of pa3ion.
fignification ;

V'"

A Latin

atiimi imfoientia.

3. Incapacity of propagation.
Dulnefs with obfceniiy miift prove
As hateful, fure, as impoienct in love.

.

».

/.

Impregnate, from their loins they (hed

Did in the impregnate earth new fons

Dryden.

Vi^.

They ought to refer
which

Weak; feeble; wanting force; waiuing

0*
We that are ftrong muft bear the imbecillity of

n. /.

[imprecatio,

Latin;

W'lh intprtcaiioni.
Clinpmjn's Odyffey
Sir ]i,hn Holham, uncurled
by sny imprecation oi
mine, paid his own and hiselJcft fon's heads. King.
Wiih imprtcaiion, thus he fill'd the air.

AliitoH.

Although in dreidiul whirls we hung.

And angry Neptune heard th' unrighteous pray'r.

High on the biokcn wave,
I kntw thou wett not flow to hear,

Pope.

.,

AJ.Jif.nU Speeiator.

Imprecatory,

adj.

[from

imprecate.]

Containing wifhes of evil.

2. Difabled by nature or difcafe.
In thofe porches lay a great multitude
oVimpottnt
fclk, of blind, hilt, aad wiOjered.
"Jolm,
r, 3,

2.

To Impre'cn.
Latin.]

firft

matters

11.

a.

To fill with

[in

and pr,egno,

young; to

fi!)

unto councellors,
or impregnation; but
the womb of iheircoun-

begetting

That with which any thing is impree*'

nated.

What could

implant in the body fuch peculiar
impregnation!, as (hould have fuch power?
Derham.

3.

[Imprepnation.Vr.] Saturation.

Impreju'dicate.
duo,

Latin.]

adj.

Jin/nM.

[in prcc,

and y«.
Unprejudiced; not pre

pofTefled ; impartial.

The folid reafon of one man with imprrjudicatt
apprehenfions, begets at firm a belief as
the authority or aggregated teftiniony of
many hundreds.

My mother fiw^ the hoirid furies raife

Huoker.

the

when they are elaborate m

imprecation,
French, from imprecate.]
Curfe; prayer by which any evil is
wiihed to another or himfelf.

power.

IS

fe , and grow ripe to be
brought forth, then they
take the matter back into their own
hands. Bacon.

Lniraiftablenefs; llubbornefs.

Impreca'tion.

Dryd

tion.

do not know a greater mark of an able mi-

To I'.VIPRKCA'IE. 'V. a. [imprecor, Latin.]
To call for evil upon himfelf or others,

beget.

Impregna'i JON. n.J. [<ixom impregnate.]
1. The aft of making prolifick
fecunda;

Roue.

ties of men, nor is any thing
more to be lamenicd
than ihampraHical/ent/s of doing this.
S-ui/t.

2.

Dryden' ! Virgil.

""

""""
""^''' '''°°<' '•'' monfters mix'd'
he Lblood, endu'd with animating hear,

-i-i.
I

[from im-

mfter than that of rightly adapting the feveral facul-

Mi/ton.

In the followi.ig example, impregnai^

Allimyjuice.

Jmpoffibility.
1

To fill; to fatu-

may be perh.ips an adjeftive.

.

nature
by a dainty-fingered girl.

Impka'cticableness.

potem, Latin.]

li*t Impotent to fave.

.

'I'hat tierce impraaicatle

1.

I'MPOTENT. atij. [impotent, French; im-

the impotent, and not pleafe ourfelves.
Yes wealth it impolmt
To gain dominion, or to keep it gsin'd.

.

D,,y, of Piety.

[Jmpiegner, French.]
rate.

praSlicatle.]

Belike through impotence, or unaware.

Yet alt combiii'd.
Your beauty and mji impudence of mind.

3.

It governed

he, fo wife, let IsDle at once his ire,

To give his enemies their wi(h, and end
Them in his anger, whom his anger faves,
To punii}) endlefs i

Had there not been ftill remaining bodies, the legitimate offsprings of the antediluvian earth, 'twould

Untraftable ; unmanageable; ftubborn.

2.

want a due fertiiuy.

ira-

2.

I

To fill with young; to make prolifick.
Hermaphrodites, although they include the parts
of bothfexes, Qinixat impregnate themfelves.
Sro-wn.
Chriltianitv is of fo proliHck a nature, fo
apt to
impregnate the hearts and lives of its
profclytes.
that It IS hard to inidgine that any
branch Ifiould

poflible.

———
—

Rcgcn.
This is not a reftraint or impotincy, but the royal

can do oothiog which is rcjugnant to his divine
goodoefs
JBe^il,

Latin.]
I.

Dryd.

have been
_
an extravagant
.....—Q.... u,,u
and .rnyr
impmdicable
Hii..M(/j.
un
Un'
.i*.t«bi
._i
dertaking
to have gone
about 10 determine any
thing concerning it.
H'oodtvard.
To preach up the neceflity of that which our experience tells us is utterly impraaitable, vitK to
affright mankind with the terrible profpeft of univerfal damnation.
Rogeri.

hereafter.

h::

,

Sbaltefpeare't Henry V.

French, in and praSicatle."]
Not to be performed; unfeafible ;

Sandy,.

Impregnate, -v. a. [in and preggni,,

7

To Impo'wir. See Empower.
Impr.\'cticable.
adj.
[impraBkaUe

fatherlefs children, old decrepit perfons, ideots,

prerogative of the moft abfolute king of kinesj that
he wills to do nothing but what he can ; and that

forti-

^^^^-

1
took him up (or a
with intention to reftore

him to the right owner.

fuch a manner as to defy force or

A caftle ftrongly feated on a high rock, joineth
by an ifthmus to the land and is impregnably

him wander about,

ftray, and impounded him,

1

•

in

hoftility.

To

The king.

unconwhich,
throws
South.

Impre'onably. ad-v. [from impregnable]

rebels, that none of them might efcape, than that
any doubt was made to vanquifli tJiem.
Bacon.
2.
fhut up in a pinfold.
England
Hath taken and impounded as a ftray

South.

^

The man's affeiaion remains wholly
cerned and impregnable; juft like a
rock,
being plied continually by the waves,
ftill
them back again, but is not at all moved.

See

to (hut in 4 to

;

M;l,on,

Unfhaken; unmoved; unaffeded ; invincible.

and pound.

[in

The great care was rather how to impound the

And fill the world with follies and impofiurii. Irne.
1

a.

To inclofe as in a pound

Form new legends.

I'mpotence.

Impregnable.
2.

confine.

without Impofture or invidious
Evc/jn.

upon hu

On the Tarpeian rock, her citadel

Pound.]

Open to them fo many of the interior fccrets of

We know how fuceefsful the late ufurper was,

nj.

Sandyt.

There the Capitol thou fee 'ft.
Above the reft lifting his ftately head

^'f"-

cr T

it

Sbak.

Haft thou not him, and all

Which he calls his, inclofed with a wall
Of ftrength impregnable f

Proud Cafar, 'midft triumphal can.

groffer locality

leferre.

And with their helps alone defend ourfelves.

impotent']

The Ipoils of nations, and the pomp of wars.

^

this myfterious art,

Let us be back'd with God, and with the feas.

Which he h.id given for fence impregnable.

Without power.

Cheat; fraud; fuppofifoftura, Latin.]
tioufne/s; cheat committed by giving to

imagination f

to it but by one narrow path, where
one
man's force was able to keep down an army. Sidney.

Whifp'ring with Jove, the diver-footed queen

Then, impotent of tongue, her filcnce broke.
Thus turbulent in rattling tone (he fpoke. Dryden.

3uefts got by that grand imfoftar, the devil, over the
eluded fans ot men.
South.

1.

no coming

One who cheats by a

Latin.]

fiditious charafter.

I.

Two giants kept themfelves in a caftle, feated upon
the top of a rock. Impregnable, becaufe
there was

With jealous eyes at diftance (he had feen,

Impo'stor. h,/, \impcfteur, Fr. from impofe;

Tbomftn

Not to be ftormed; not to be taken.

I.

[Animiitn-

potens.'\

Hantj.

impofiior,

Forms lucid rtones.

IMPRE'GNABLE. adj. [impregnable. P>.]

Temple.

Withoutpowcrof reftraint.

3.

South.

Fumes cannot tranfude through the bag of an im.
fcftbume.

In her ears the found

Yet rung of his perfusfive words, impregn^d

With reafon, to her feeming.
Milton.
Th' unfruitful rock itfelf, impregn'd by thee.

The impotent poor might be reliev'd, and the idle

Sbakeffcare.
An error in the judgment is like an impoftem in the
head, which is always aoiibme, and fiequentiy mor.

make

to

pregnant.

It leaden fervitor to dull decay

*eriet.

«»l.

with any matter or quality;

walked.
Aas, xiv.
I have leam'd that fearful commenting

an abfcefs.J A colleflion of purulent matter in a bag or cyft.
full

IMP

There fat a certain man, impoteitl'iti hii feet, being
a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had

itrc'rtt^,

ders

MP

I

as South writes

,

,

•

Imprepara'tion. n./.
tion.]

.

[in

Brotvit,

mA prcpara.

Unpftparednefs; want of prepa-

ration.
Impreparation

and unreadinefs when they find in
us, they turn it to the foothiug
up of themfelves.

To IMPRE'SS. V. a. [impreffttm, Latin^j'
I. To print by preffure;
to Itamp.

When

M-P

fM P

When GoJ from e»rth fonnM Adam In A\t B»ft,
Detiham.
He his own imige on the clay imftrji.

There ii i real knowledge of truterftl tVm{«,
when the thing itfelf, and the real aflion and iwpie^on thereof on our fenfes, is perceived.
Cbeynt.

His (!oews waxen weak and raw,
Through long impri/onmtnt and hard conftraint,

tffeft of an attack.
Such a defeat of near two hundred horfe, feconded w.th two thoufand foot, may furely endure a comparifon with any of the hnst&imprtjftont

Which (hall I firft bewail.
Thy bondage or loll fight ?

1

The conquering chief his loot imfitjl

On

|
I

I

DryJ.

the ftrong neck ol that dellrudlive bcaft.

|

To fix ilccp.

2.

5.

We (hould dwell upon the irgumenti, and tmfrtfi
die motives of perfuaficn upon our own hearta, 'till
iValtt.
we feel the force ot them.

To mark, as impreffed hy a (lamp.

3.

6. Edition;

To force into fervice.

Clurendm,

[from the verb.]
Mark made by preffure.
tt.f.

This weak imfrefs of love is as a figure
Trenched in ice, which with an hour's heat
Shak. Tivo Gent, of Verona.
DilTolves to water.

They having taken

the imfrejfei of the

infides

of thcfe Ihells with that exquilite nicenefs, as to exprcfs even the linert lineaments of them. fVoodviaid.

2. EfFefts of one fubftancc or another.

How objefts are rcprefented to myfclf

I

cannot

be ignorant; but in what manner they are received,
and what imprcjfei they make upon the differing
crgani of another, he only knows that feels them.
Gtanville^i Scepjii.

God, furveying the works of the creation, leaves
us this general imfrefs or character upon them, that
South.
they were exceeding good.

impreffion.
Lean but upon a rulh.

Now

commonly /rj/}.
pulfion ; feizure.
Ajax was here the voluntar}', and you as under an
Sbakef
imprefi.
Why fuch imprefi of (hipwrights, whofe fore talk
Does not divide the Sunday from the week ? Sbak.
Your (hips are not well mann'd;
Vour mariners are mulitcers, reapers, people
Ingroft by fwift impreji,
Sbakf. Ant. andCleop.
Impre'ssion. «. /. \JmpreJto, Lat. imprejjion, Fr.]

The aft of prefling one body upon ano-

1.

ther.
is

Mark made by preffure

2.

;

ftamp.

Holder*! Elem. of Speecb.
Having furveyed the image of God in the foul
of man, we are not to omit thofe charaiflers of ma.
South.
jefty that God imprinted upon the body.
She amidll his fpacious meadows flows
Inclines her urn upon his fatten'u lands.
And fees his num'rous herds imprint her fands.

of types.
To fix on the mind or memory.

Svjift.

4. Efficacious agency; operation; influence.
The king hath made him high (heri(f of SulTei,
that he might the better make imfrejion upon that
CO'^infy.

Clarendon.

We lie open to the imprejftoni of flattery, which
we admit without fcruple,
ferve it.

becaufe we think we deAiterbuty.

Univerfal gravitation is above all mechanifm, and

proceeds iiram a divine eactgy and imfreffiim.
Benlley.

adj. [improbable, Fr. imprO'

Latin ; in and probable. \ Unlike-

(hionablc world.

AdJifon.

Impro'bablv. adv. [from improhabU.\
1.

Without likelihood.

2.

In a manner not to be approved.

Ob-

folete.
Ariftotle tells us, if a drop

of wine be put into

ten thoufand meafures of water,

the

overpowered, will be turned into water :
%xry improbably.

tin.]

a.

[in

Boyle.

and probo, La-

Not to approve.

Improba'tion.

wine being
he fpeaks

Aiitfivirth.

There is a kind of conveying of effe^ual and imprinting pafTagcs, amongtf comf liments which is of

[impnbatlo, Latin;
improbaiion, French.] Aft of difallowing.

Bacon.

Ainfiuorlo,

//.

/.

We have all thofe ideas in our underdandings ImpRo'sttV. ». y. [imfrobilas, imprtbus,
which we can make the objefts of our thoughts,
Latin.]
Want of honefty; difhonefty;

without the help of thofe fcnfible qualities which
Locke.
firfl imprinted them.
Retention is the power to revive again in our
minds thofe ideas, which, after imprinting, have
Locke.
difappeared.
By familiar acquaintance he has got the ideas of
thofe two different things diftin^y imprinted on hit
Locke.
mind.

4.

bafenefs.
He was perhaps excommunicable, yea, and

idea imprinted in our

mind

is

rioufly Ihadowed.

We

To Improi.i'ficate.
fck.']

To (hut up; to confine ; to keep
from liberty ; to reftrain in place.
He imprifon'd was in chains remedilcfs

and proli-

a. [in

A

A difficulty in eggs is how the fperm of the cock
Impr.olificates,

and makes the oval conception fruit-

ful.

IMPRO'PER.

adj.

[impropre,

Fr.

Brown,
impro.

prius, Latin.]

Not well adapted ; unqualified.

1.

As every fcience
likcwife there

For that Hippolytus' rent corfe he did redrefs.
*

is

every one.

requires a peculiar genius,

fo

a genius peculiarly improper for
Burnet,

2. Unfit ; not conducive to the right end.

Now we arc in the ftreet, he firft of all,

I'he methods ufed in an original difeafe would
be very improper in a gouty cafe. ArbutbnotiM Diet,

Improvidently proud, creeps to the wall';

Try to imprifon the refill lefs wind

<v,

To impregnate; to fecundate.

word not ufed.

of a flat circle, vaLocke.

•Ti Impri'son. rj, a. \itnprifoiiiier, Fr. ///and

caft

out for notorious improbity.
Hooker.
balance the improbity of the one with tlie
improbity of the other.
L'E/frange.

To Impri NT jzr is lefs proper.
When we fet before our eyes a round globe, the

Sells for a little dale his liberty.

fucielfor.

true, ot

is

Dryden.

To ftamp words on paper by the ufe To I'mprobate. I',

Were the offices of religion ftriptof all the external
they would not make a due imprefjiun on

Anerbury.
The falfe reprefentationt of the kingdom's enemies had made fome impreffton in the mind of the

what

ly ; incredible.
This account of party-patches will appear imprc
bable to thofe who live at a didance from the la-

Prior.

And fo imprifon'd and hemm'd in by mCi

the mind.

the imptobabilitiei of a fpirit appearing,
anfwer him, that a heroick poet is not

babilis,

One of the fame feal, imprinted upon pieces of

Image fixed in the mind.

decencies,

to

ImprO'bable.

wax of different colours.

3.

Addifon.
brand of herefy

fix the

tied to the bare reprefentation of

Spenfer.

Like to a chaos, or unlick'd bear-whelp,
Siakef.
That carries no impreffioti like the dam.

3.

As

I boldly

prifon.~\

fuch an {mprefjian or motion, made
in fome part of the body, as produces fome percepLocke.
tion in i!ic underlianding.
Senfation

if they don't

exceeding probable.

fingular ul'e.

Millon,

well

Unlikelihood; difficulty to be believed.
The difficulty, and the improbability of attempting this fuccefstully is great
Hammond,

The cicatrice and capable intfreffurt
Thy palm fome moments keeps.
Shakefpeare.
To Impei'nt. 'V. a. [(,OT/W»j«'r, French.]
1. To mark upon any fubftance by preffure.

To defcribe emblazon'd Ihields,

Aft of forcing any into fervice; cora-

is

yVaits on the Mind.

Impre'ssure. ». /. [from imprefs.'\ The
mark made by preffure; the dint; the

ImpreJJes nm\M, caparifons, and fteedf,
'Bales, and tinfels, trappings.

It

on the man who is leading them out of their lorig
imprifonment, and loofing the fetters of their fouls.

Improbabi'lity. ». /. [from improbable.'^

What may lie impreffed.

4. E)evice; motto.

5.

lions.

Impre'ssible. adj. [/» andi freffum, Latin.]

2.

Philllpt.

Count Scrini, dill clofe prifoner in this caftle,
by his long imprifonment and afHic.

loft his fenfes

Bacon.
For ten impreffiont, which his works have had in
fo many years, at prefeftt a hundred books are
Dryden,
fcarcely purchafcd once a twelvemonth.

Mark of diftinftion; ftamp.

3.

varies, and of pall imprifonment
Sweetly complains.

Bacon*3 Natural Hijloiy.

Siaie/f. Maehetb.
Ormond Oiould contribute all he could (or the
making thofe leviti of men, and for imfreffing of

J.

She

The diflerences of imfreffible and not imfrejfible,

Unfix his earth-bound root?

(hips.

When fullen Philomel efcapes, her notet

figurable and not figurabje, are plebeian notions.

Who can imprr/i the foreft, bid the tree

Impre'ss.

'^

Milton's AgomJIet.

From retentive cage

number printed at once; one

(0 be of the lad imptejjion, and full of change.

This 13 generally

Macheih (hall never vanquilh'd be, until
Great Birnam-wood to Dunfinane's high hill
Shall come againft him.
That will never bt:

The dungeon of thyfelf.

To be diftraded with many opinions, makes men

now fpoken anti written ^r^.
His age has charms in it, his title more,
To pluck the common bofoms on his fide,
And turn our imprtfi launces in our eyes
Which do command them.
Shakrff. King Lear.

Thou art become, O worfl Imprlfonmenl

courfe of printing.

Spenfer,

MP
Spinftr,

ffuten.

in ancient lime .

So foul and ugly, that exceeding fear
Their vifages imfrrji, when they approached near.
4.

I

Donne.

2.

;

Dryden.
So fwift is guilt, fo hard to be confin'd.
If a man imprifons himlelf in his clofet, and
employs reafon to find out the nature of the corporeal
world, without experiments, he will frame a fcneme
kfaitt.
of chimeras.
It is not improbable, that all the rirtual heat
in the juices of vegetables, metals, and minerals,
may be owing to the adtion of the imfrifoned rays.
Cheyne,

Impri'sonment. tt.f. \empr'ifontument , Fr.

Notjult; not accurate.
He difappear'd, was rarify'd;
For 'tis improper fpecch to fay he dy'd

Hewas exhal'd.

Drydem

Impro'perly. ad'v, [from improper,']
1.

Not fitly; incongruoufly.

2.

Notjuftly; not accurately.
Improperly we meafure life by breath :
Such do not truly live who merit death. Dryd. Juv.

They alTuting me of their alfidance in corrctfing

my faults where 1 fpoke improperly, I was encou-

raged.
Drydem.
from »'m/r//e//.] Confinement; claufure;
ftate of being (hut in prifon.
It may be Ta Impropriate, v, a, [in »ni propriut,
Latin.]
wiitten tmprifunmnt.
,1

To

IMP

M P

I
1•

To convert to private ufc

;

himfelf.
For the pardon of tht reft, the king thought it
not tit it lliould pafs by parliament ; the better,
being matter of grace, to VfOrDpriate the thanks to
B,ieon't firm Y

hiir.felf.

2,

Heaven Teems Inprcrv'd with a fuperior ray,

to feize to

Pope,
And the bright arch reflects a double day.
2 . [/» and prove ; improwver, French ; f»»-

probo, Latin,]

To difprove.

Mrs. Gulfton being poircffed of the impropriate parfonage of Bardwell in Sut&lk, did procure

from the king leave

To Impro've. -v. n.

carage.

diligence;

An impr:yfriaiion is properly fo called when tlie
r church land is in the hands of a layman ; and an
appropriation is when it is in the hands ot a bilhop,
college, oi religious houfe, though fomctimes thefe
Ayliffc't I'arirgjn.
terms are confounded.

Impropria'tor. n. f. [from impropriate.

/.
)

Addlfon.

impudence to denv.

Fr.

Unfitnefs ;

un-

Addifon,

I'hefe mighty ones, whofe ambition could fuSer

immortality ; but the proudeft have been convinced
of the imfrcpriety ol that appellation.
Br'j'ivnU J^ulgar En ours.
Many grofs improfiiieli^s, however autliorizcd by
Swift,
praUicc, ought to be difcardcd.

Impro'sperOus. adj. [;« and pre/peroiii.^
Unhappy ; unfortunate ; not fuccefsful.

4. Inftrudion ; edification.
1 look upon your city as ihe-beft place of /w^rovfment : from the fchool we go to the univeriitv, but
from the univerlities to London.
South.

Effeft of melioration.
Love is the greateft of human attention;, and friendfhip the noblcft and moll rehned improvement of love.
South.

Imp Ro'v ER. ».yi [from rflf/coax'.]
I. One that makes himfelf or any

this way.

Dtcay of Piety.

This eiperimeot liai been but very imfrcfpfroufly
B'yie.
auemptej.
Impro'vable. adj. [from imprcnif.] Ca-

pable of being advanced from a good to
a better ftate ; capable of melioration.
Adventures in kno^edge are laudaplc, and the
cflTays of weaker

heads aiibtd improvajii^ bints unto
Bro-un.
We have Oock enough, and that too of fo /mfrmable \ nature, that is, Capable of infin-.tc adDecay of Piily.
vancement.
Man is accommodated with moral principles,
imj^mahlt by the exercife of his faculties.
Hale': Origin of Mankind,
Animals are not impri/ijable beyond their proper
genius : a dog will never learn to mew, nor a cat to
bark.
Creiv,
I have a fine fpread of improvable lands, and am
already plaotmg woods and draining irurfhes.
bftter.

AJdif'in's •'ipeHalor,

1m P Ro'vA B L E N ESS. n.f. [from improvable

."^

Capablcnefs of being matle better.

[from imprrvable.^ In
a manner that admits of melioration.
To Impro've. t/. a. [/« and/rs^«/. 9jinft
'
prohumfacere,'\
Hhtmer,
I. To ailvance any thing nearer to perto raife from good to better.
feftion
We amend a bad, h\i\. improve 3 good thing.
r love Wit 4o Lfprove the honour of the living by
a</xi.

,

;

ilmham.

z.

Sbakfp. Henry IV.

When we behold an angel, not to fear,
z,

Why Ihould foft Fabius impudently bear
Names gain'd by conqueft in the Gallic war

.>

Yet dares be bafe, effeminate, and vain ?
Dryden.
To IMPU'GN. V. a. [impttgnn; French;
impiigno, Lzt.'\

To attack; to afl'ault by

law or argument.
Of a ftraiige nature is thefuit you follow
Yet in fuch rule, that the Venetian law
Cannot impugn you. Shakefp. Merchant of Venice.
I cannot think myfelf engaged to difcourle of lots,
as to their nature, ufe, and allowablenefs ; and that

notonlyin matters of moment and bulinefs; but alfo
of recreation, which is impugned by fome, though

unprovided againft.

better defended by others.

South.
llierom reportcth, that he faw one of thefe in
but the truth hereof I will not rafhiy imptign, or over-boldly affirm, Peacbain on Ora-iving.
St,

his time;

Spenftr.

Impro'vidence. n. f, [from improvident.

Impu'cner. n.f. [from

One

that attacks or invades.

Men would efcape floods; by running up to moun-

Impui'ssance.

tains ; and tlioiigh fomc might perilh through improvidence, many would cfcape.
Hate,
The improvidence o( my neighbour muft not make

Wanting forecail ; wanting care to provide.
Improvident h\i\tn, had your watch been good.
This fiiddcn milchief never could li ive laH'n. .Vi.i/f.
'

Donne,

Impo-

fair

for

him foroccafions to accept of Peace.
Bacon,
I'MPULSE. »./ [impulfm, Lat.]
I. Communicated force: the cScd of one
body afting upon another.
If thefe litile iinpulfrs fet the great wheels of
devotion on work, the largenefs and height of that
(hall not at all be prejudiced by the fmallnefs of its
occafion.
South,
Bodies produce ideas in us manifcllly by impulfe.

L.cke.
Bodier, from the impulfe of a fluid, can only
propurlion to tliejr furlaccs, and not
according to ihrir quantity of matter, which is congraviiaie in

]

Impiovidtntiy proud, creeps to the wall

[French,]

for fupporis of war, fo the impuijfance of the one,

I (hall conclude this digiclUon, and return to the
time when that brific and improvidenl refolution was
Ukcn.
Clarendon.
'J'his were an imprrvid/nt revenge in the young
ones, whereby they mufldflfroy thcmlelvcs. Brovn,

And fo imprifon'd, and hcmm'd in by me,

/.

and ihe double proceeding of the other, lay

When men Wf--ll h-iv f J, the Nnod being warm,
Then are ihcy mofl impr:vidtnt of harm, Daitit-l,

Without forethought ; without care.
Now we are in the ftrcct, he fiift of ail,

ft.

tence; inability; weaknefs; feeblenefs.
As he would not trull Ferdinando and Maximilian

VEjlraiige,

IMPRO;VlDENT. adj. \improvidus, Lat.]

I .VI p K (Vv I D E N T I, Y.ady, [from improvident,

impt/gn,]

"^

want of caution.

ScUvfcr a little flalc his liberty.

*

Sandys.

Why lays he claim to Hercules his drain,

Improvi'ded. <J^', \impror,ifus, Latin; impre^u, Fr.]
Unforefecn ; unexpeded;

me inhuman.

Unchalle; immodeft.
sdv.
[from impudent.'^
Shamelefsly ; without modefty.

At once atlail
With open mouths, and impudently rail.

Mortimer.

;

Drydcn's Spanifh Fryar.

1'mpudentlv.

Chalk is a vciy great imf rover of molt lands.

Want of forethought

throng of words

more than /»/>»</(•« fawcinefs

Is to be impudent.

Any thing that meliorates.

She fuborncd hath
This crafty mcifenger with letters vain.
To work new woe, and improvidtd fcath.
By breaking off ilie band bctwiit us twain.

wanting modefty.

from you, can thruft me from a level conlideration.

thing

Loclte.

;

that come with fuch

Homer is like a fkilful improver, who places a
beautiful fhitue fo as to anfwer leveral vittas. Pope.

Drydtn.

[from impnImpRo'speruUSI.v. adi:.
/perous.'\
Unhappily; unfuccefsfully ;
with ill fortune.

Shamelefs

It is not a confideiit brow, nor the

Clarendijn.

Seven revolving years are wholly run.
Since the improfprroui voyage we begun.

pudens, Lat.]
I .

elfe better.
They were the greateft improvers of thofe qualifications with which courts ufed to be adorned.

The firft flarted ideas have been examined, and
maiiy effe^ually confuted by the*late /m^roim of

ij>cke

rMPUDENT.'fli//. limpudent, French; m-

5.

This method is in the defign probable, how Imfrofptrou: foevcr the wiclcednefs of men hath renHammonJ.
dered the fuccel"? of it.
Our pride feduces us atonc< into the guilt of bold,
aod funi().mcntof>ii>^r«^rrs<rrrebcli.

Sbaliefp. Winter's Tale,

Nor did Noah's infirmity juftily Cham's impudency, or exempt him from that curfc of being fervantof fcrvanti.
K. Charles.
Thofe clear truths, that either their own evidence
forces us to admit, or common experience makes it

Progrefs from good to better.

3.

ne'er heard yet

Than to perform it lirll.

oit.

\Jmpropriete,

them to be called gods, would never be flattered into

r

I

impudentia, Lat. J .Sham«-

immodefty,

That any of thefe bolder vii:es wanted
Lels impudence to gainfay what they did,

:

There is a dellgn of pubtiHiing the hiilory of architeAurc, with its leveral imfrovemenn and decays.

nefs.

impairing that of the dwd.
V01..I.

leffnefs ;

The parts of Sinon, Camilla, and Tome few others,

inaccuracy; want of jull-

.

I'.MPUDENCY. 5

Act of improving; fomething added or
changed for the better fometimes with

are improvements on the Greek poet,

Titlotjin.

I'mpudence. 7 n. f, [impudence, French;

Tillotfon.

2.

'\

pay the great tyihes to the reftoror impropriator.
Aylifft^i Farergon.

Impko'v A Bi. y

glcits God and his foul.

Atttrbury,

Some virtues tend to the prefervation of health,
and others to \SM.impro-ueniim andfecurity of elites.

Where the vicar leafes his glebe, the tenant muft

fuitablenefs ;

which become us, particularly in

Melioration; advancement of any thing
from good to better.

1.

A layman that has the pofleflion of the

».

impntdens, Latin ]
Wanting prudence ;
injudicious; indifcreet; negligent.
There is no fuch imprudent perfoa as he that nc-

and

Improvement, n.f. [from improve.^

lands of the church.

from impmpriui, Lat.

frugality

times of war,

Having an imfnjprijiion in his eitaie, he took a
courfe to difpoie of it for the augmentation ot the
S^flmjtt.
vicarage.

virtues

inattention to

To advance in good- IMPRU'DENT. adj. [imprudettt.Y itnch;

We take care to improve in our

ImpROPRIa'tION. «.yl [from impnfriate.'\

Impropri'etv.

indifcretion ; negligence ;
intereft,

nefs.

annej the fame to the viSprlman^

to

and prcvijtott.l

[in

Her improvifion would be juftly accufable. Brawn,
rf. /. [impnidenoe, French;
impnidentia, Latin.] Want of prudence;

fyHigifte,

the hands of laicks.

/.

Now dif- Impru'dence.

Though the prophet Jeremy was unjiiftly accufed,
yet doth not l]ut improT/e any thing that J have fjid.

To put the poflefllons of the church into

MP

tt.

Want of forethought.

ufed.

V II.

I

Improvi'sion.

trary to experience,

z.

Citeyne.

Influence atfling upon the mind ; motive;
idea iinprilTed.

Mean time, by Jove's imptilfe, Meicntiuj arm'J,
Succeiidtd Turnui.
Dr\Jcn.
6 L

'1 bele

i

Mp
1.

Want of ftnftity

2.

Aft of unchaftity.

To Impu'rple. t. a. \tmfaurprer, French,
from purplt.'] To make red ; to colour

Prior.

agency of body in motion upon
body.
The motion in the minute part* of any folid body

I. lite

South,

Accufable;

2.

\aif that moveth, and the refiiiance of the body that

lulle.

Having the power of iropulfe ;
moving; impellent.

Impvta'tion. n. /.

Prior,

Locke,

Cod hath made our eternal and temporal inieielb,

clear myfclf from

that fubjedl.

his

in that of thofe whom they bad moll abufed.

Dunciad,

now time to

any imputation of fclf-conceit on
Dryden.

men with

Noting the time.
When we would confider eternity a parte enttf

3.

what do we but, beginning from ourfelves and the
prefent time we are in, repeat in our miods the idea*
of years or ages pall J

the imputation of being near their

4.

Whaifocver happens they alfo the leaft feel that
fcourge of vul^it imputation, which notwthftjnding

5.

Ccnfure; reproach.

3.

Hu6t. Tale.

Hooter.
they deferve.
I>ct us be careful td guard ourfelves againft thefe
to rife
and
enemies,
groundlefs imputations of our
Addijon.
above them.
Neilhcr do I rcfleft upon the memory of his late
Majeliy, whom I entirely acquit of any imputation

:

In that pure region of a worthy love.

Than earthly fubftance can unforc'd afpire,
Donni,

Contrary to fanftity ; unhallowed; unholy: of things.

Svift.
upon this matter.
4. Hint ; flight notice.
Anihonio is a good man.
Have you heard any trnpulation to the contrary ?
No, no ; my meaning is to have you underftaiid
me that he is fufficient. S/bake/p. Merchant of Venice.

Hypocrites auftereW talk.

Condemning as impure what Cod has made
Fuie, and commandt to fome, leaves free to all.

—
—

Milton.

3. Unchafte.

Imputa'tive. fl<^". [from impute.] That
Ainjiuorth.
which may impute.

If black fcandal, or foul-fac'd reproach.

Attend the fequcl of your impofition,
Vour meer enforcement (hall acquictance me
from all the impurt blots and Hains thereof. SliaktJ.
One could not devife a more proper hell for an
impure fpirit, than that which Plato has touched
Addijan.
upon.

To IMPUTE,
putt, Latic]
I ,

;

I

With

grees fcarce to be perceived ;

Impu'reness. I ». /. [impurvte, French;
Impu'ritt.
impuriUnhtX, iiova im5

it

for oiherwifc

the mi-

nlftry are obliged to enter.

Sv:ifh

In all liklihood I brought all ray limbs out of the
'tis probable, he has not done nif the

bed, which,
breach.

Collier,

Concerning.

7.

I

only confider what he, who is allowed to have
Lock/,

carried this argument farihelf, has faid in it.

8.

For the fake. A folemn phrafe.
Now, in the names of all the gods at once,
Upon what meat docs this our Cxht feed,
Th.it he is grown fo great ? Staki/p. JuliutC^tfar,
In the name of the people.

And in the power of us the tribunes, we
Bauilli him our city.

whaifo-

new and unlooked for, ever mends fome,
and impain othen; and be tbat ii boljA takes it
cver

at leatf , nine in ten of thofe who enter into

According to.

6.

to attribute : gene-

Romans, iv. 22.
Men in their innovations Ihould follow the example
of time, which innovateth but quietly, and by de-

impurity.

Bacon.
cannot but lament the common courfe, which,

current.

rally ill ; fometimes good.
It was imputed to him for righteoufncfs.

with extraneous mix-

Noting proportion.
Let ufirry in general be reduced to five in thcRundred, and let that rate be proclaimed to be tret and

a-, a. \imputer, French ; im-

To charge upon

Lcckt,

Noting power.
To feed men's fouls, ijuoth he, it not in man.

Hhakefpeare,

marter.

Smairijge's Sermons,

None was fo little in their friendlhips, or (o much

If I had a fuit to malfcr Shallow, I would humour

unholv of men.
No more can impurt man retain and more

r

'lis

in moll cafes, very confilicnt.

Sometimes of good.

2,

their ill-gotten influence towards procuring impMniiy,
or extorting undue favours for themfelves or deAltirbtiry.
pendents.

f»rt.}

is

writings from thole of any other's :

for the

IMPLTRE. adj. [impur, French; impurus,

u fyllogifm.

allowable ; but a rigorous
imputation it derogatury to him, and arrogant in us.
Glanville's Scepjis.
I have formerly faid that 1 could diliinguilh your
cflence, as hypoihcfes,

Addifon.

thing it fo unfit to alTifl the miod in that

To ule ii,'.;lleiSions and volitions in the inlinite

Davits.

Impu'rily. adv, [from impure.}

S/jjie/p. Troilui and CteJiJa.

If a fon that is fent by his father about merchandife, do fall into fome lewj aAion, the imputu ion of his wickednefs, by your rule, (hould be
Sbaltefpeare.
impofed upon his father.

Men, potent in the commonwealth, will employ

Sh.ik,

Danger before, and in, and after the a5>.
You needs muft grant is great. Danhl'i Civil If'ar.
However it be /» knowledge, I may iruly fay it4t
of no ufe at all in probabilities ; for the alfcnt there,
being to he determined by the preponderaiicy, after ft
due weighing of all the proofs on both (ides, no-

Oor imputation (hall be oddly pois'd

^nilgar will ntvtr believe, that there is a crime where

foul
4. Feculent;
tures; droffy.

Shak^fpeare,
Sir Edmund Courtney, and tiie haughty prelate.

With many more confederates, aic in arms.

In this «ild aflion.

In the condition of fubje^s tliey will gladly continue, as long as they may be proteiied and jultly
governed, without opptenion on the one iide, or im-

1,

[imputation, Yxcnch,

Truft to ine, Ulyffes

;

.'knd leave his nature to converfe with fire.

The other is onVy by error and mifconceitnamej
the ordinance of Jelus Chriti ; no one proof is yet
brought forth, whereby it may clearly appear to be
Hoiiker,
fo in very deed.
Like one of two contending in a prize.
That thinks he hath done well in people's ews.

ill.

Impu'nity. «. yi Umpuniti, French; imFreedom from punilhputtiias, Latin.]
ment exemption from punifhment.

Latin.]
I, Defiled with guilt ;

time.

Attribution of any thing: generally of

1,

!

;

Is this place here not fu65cient ftrong

Daniel's Civil If^ar,
To guard us in ?
2. Noting the ftate or thing prefent at any

from inpule.]

What is the fountain or imfulfivi caufe of this

they fee no penalty.

viife os

'Tis neceffary to the imputatleneft of an aflion,
Norrrs.

Nature and duty bind him 10 obedience

is

fjirjjie.

that it be avoidable.

But thofe being placed in a lower fpherc,
His fierce ambition, like the fvighelt move/.
Has hurried with a ftrong imfuljivc motion
Denhum's Sofhy.
Againll their proper courfe.

He thltt

impute."]

imputes.
In, fref, [in Latin.]
1. Noting the place where any thing
prefent ; not without.
/« fchool of love are all things taught we fee
There Icarn'd this maid ofarms the direful guife.

AyUffe.

mfyl/t.']

And are but play'd with, do not play.

iMTv'rzVi. rt. /. [from

Lmp u'tableness. n. f. [from impuiaiie.}
The quality of being imputable.

jMru'LsiVE. aij. \impulfif, French, from

A general impurtify would confirm them

fault.

long as the fault
lies at his door, and Ihe in no wife imputable.

Soktb.

Thy merit
Imputed (hall abfolve them who renounce
Their own both righteous and unrighteous deeds.
Milton.

;

deems her to be a dutiful

Divine imfwlfian, promfting how thou might'll
Find fome otcafion to infeO our foes. Mill. AgoniJIts.

punity on the other.

with a

If the wife departs from her hufband, through any
default of his, as on the account of cruelty, then he
(hall be compelled to allow her alimony ; for the law

X. Influence operating upon the mind.
But thou didll plead

!

chargeable

Not proper.

and if ihc body be loo great, it yicldeih
and if it be too fmall, it refifteih too
bacon't Natural llijti^ry.

yevenlion of fin > It is pcrkftly ficegracc.
we and they
Poor men
poor papers
Do fome impuf^ve force obey.

To reckon to one what doe* not pro-

2.

perly belong to him.

Chargeable upon any one; that of which
one may be accufed.
The tiiit fort of foolifhnefi is tmputaile to them.

1.

To the imfuljion there is requifiie the force of the

tw> littlej

have read a book imputed\t> lord Batliurft, oalled
ft dldertation on parties.
Svift,
I

Impu'table. adj. [from impuif.]

pjOeth without found ; for that found that is heard
iometimcs is produced only by the breaking of the
Bm>n,
air, and not by the inrfuljion of the air.

iMkt.

gu.ige in lb gre.1t a mafler of (file.

Now in loofe garlands, thick thrown off, the bright
Pavement, that like a fca of Jafper (hone,
Milton,
Impurpled whh ccleftial rofes, fmil'd.

French; im-

made it by your pctfualion, to fatisfy thulc who

'Temple,
imputed it to folly.
Dryden,
Imputt your dangers to our ignorance .
I'lus obl'curity cannot -be i^ff^nrci/ to want of Ian*

as with purple.

puUiit, Latin.3

is .moved;

Baton's EJfayi,
I

Cleanfe the alimentary duQ by «>mtting and
clyfters, the imfurititt of *hich will be carried into
Arbullimt.
the blood.

Like two great rocks againft ttie raging tide,

[/»»^«^<?«,

hurt for a wrong, imputeii it to the author.

Feculent admixture.

3.

Unmot'd the two united chiefs abide,

Impu'lsiom. «./

ht X fottUflc Md thanks the lime ; ind he ihatih

Atterbury.

Honile impreffion.

Sullain the imfiJfc, and receive the war.

want of holincfi.

;

toul impurities reigned among the monkifh clergy.

L*cke.

of Egypt.

3.

IMP

Mp

i

Theft *«« my nituril tmfulfn for the unJIefiiVing ; but there wai in tCcidenMl motiTc, wliich
Dtyicn.
WIS full M forcible.
Mofcs faw the bulh bum without being conthis
was
fomevoice
out
of
it:
fumed, and heard a
thiog, befidfs finding an imfxlfc upon his mind to
go to Pharaoh, that die might bring his brethren out

Sbake/peare's Coriohnut.

Now, in the n.ime of honour, (ir, I beg you
That may fee your father's death reveng'd. IVjtf.
1

9.

Noting caufe.
King Henry, by the title right or wrong,
Loid Clifford vows to fight in tliy defence. Sbake/p,

10. In tbat.

Becaufe.

So«M
S

I

I

N A

Some thinji they do h tbat

1
they are

menj w

thai they are wife men, and chiillian men, fome
things ; fome things in that they are men iniAed,
Hosier.
and blinded wiiji error.
He cannot brook fuch difgrace well, as he Qiall
run into ; in that it is a thing of his own fearch.

Since; feeing that.
II. lii as much.
Thofe things are done voluntarily by us, which
other creatures do naturally, in as much as we
might ftay our doing of them if we would. Hcoter.

This
it,

IcioDable perfon ; efpecially if he be arrived at that

confummate and robuft degree of falfehood as to play
in and out, and (how tricks with oaths, the facrcdcll
bonds which the confcience of man can be bound

wuh.
I

2.

fear rae, you'll be in 'till then.

adiian.]

L*EJlrdnge,

3. Placed in fome (late.

Poorroguu talk of court nfvit.

Who lofes and who wiu w^'s in, who's out.
;

4.

i

In the meat, and we will come in to dinner. Sbjk.
He's too big to go in there : what Ihall I do?
•—Let ne fee'i ; I'll in, I'll in : follow your friend's

a dream to me,

J.

Inactivity. »./. [imnA aSi'vitj.']

Rogers.
Virtue, conceal'd within our breafti

Ika'd EQUATE,

that of the right handed, that you run upon
their fwords if you puih forward ; and they are in

7.

gative or privative fenfe, as in the Latin : h, ailive denotes that which a^s,
inaili've that which does not aH.
In bebefore r is changed into r; as irregular:
before / into /; as illati've: and into n
before fome other confonants ; as impro-

[in

and

adequatus,

Boyle.

from inadvertent. ]
N A D V E 'r T E N c Y . J
Careleffnefs; negligence; inattention.

no natural nor cafual inal/iliij crofs their de6rei, ihey always delighting to inure themfelves
with anions moli beneficial to others, cannot but
gather great experience, and through experience the

norewifdom.

Ho'jier.

Neither ignorance nor inaiiliiy can be pretended ;
and what plea can we offer to <Ji»ine juftice to f revent condemnation ?
R'jgrri.

Ima'bstinesce. ». /.

inA abjlinence.]
want of power to abftain;
[in

intemperance ;
prevalence of appetite.

are

Ikacce'ssibli.

aJj.

in ajid acce£ible.'\

{inaeceffihU,

French,

Not to be reached; not

to be approached.
Whaie'er you are,
>-%iiat in tliii defari inaectJfiiUf

fo

S'juib,

habitual hccdiefa inadvertency, men
intent upon the prefent that they mind

nothing elfe.

not in ufe.
Though (he which did inanimate and fill

The world be gone ; yet in this lalt long night
Her gholl doth walk, that is, a glimmering light.
Donne.

Ina'nimate. \adj. [iuanimatus, Latin;
Ina'nimated. J
inanime, Fr.] Void of
life;

without animation.

l*he fpirits of animate bodies are all in fome degree kindled ; but inanimate bodies have fpirits no
whit inliamcd.
Bacon*
The golden goddefs, prefent at the pray'r,

Well knew he meant the animated fair.

And gave the (ign of granting.

Drydert.
All the ideas of fenlible qualities are not inherent
in the /«jK/ma/c bodies i but are the cfTcdls of their

motion upon our nerves.
Seniles
Both require the conftant influence of a principle
ditferent from that which governs the inanimated
Chryne^
part of the univerfe.

Fnom roofs when Verrio's colours fall,
And leave inanimate the naked wall.
Still in

•«

'

thy fong Ihould vanquilh'd France appear.

Emptinefs ; void fpace.
This opinion excludes all fuch inanity, and
admits no vacuities but fo little ones ai no body
whatever can come to, but will be bigger than they,
and mult touch the corporal parts which thofe vaDigby on Bodies,
cuities divide.

pofe.

Aft or efTeft of negligence.
Many perfons have lain under great

fome inadvertence or indifcrciion.
Ccvernment of the Tongue.
The pmduAions of a great gtnius, with many
lapfes and inadverttnciei, are inhnilely preferable 10

the works of an inferior kind of author, which are
Addijln,

fcrupuloufly mSt.

Inadve'rtent.

adj.

[in

and advertent,

Negligent; carelefs.
D V £ li T E N T L Y «</'y [ftom /wai/i-^r/f /?/.]
.

.

Carelcfi^; negligently.
Ariftoile mentions Telegorus as the fon of Circe
and Ulyirei, who afterwards flew his father with the
bone of a fi(h inadveriintly.
Bronme.
Worthy perlons, if inadveriinily drawn into a
deviation, will endeavour iottanlly to recover their
loft

ground.

ItJA't-tENA^LE.

'

This word is

1nappi>ica'tion. n.f. [inapplicafion, Yt^
Indolence; negliin and application.]

a dif!crence

From an

IN A

Before ihee ftiall appear, that thou may'fi know
What mifery the injhjiliuncc of Eve
Shall bring on man.
Milton.

To animate; to quicken.

and heavy
fcandats, which have taken their ^ll rife only from

is

Latin.]

Difealies dire of which a aoooftrous crew

We Ibmetimes fpeak of place in the great inane,
beyond the confines of the world.
Locke,

VEJlratige.

between them, as between
inadvertency, and deliberation, between furprife and

2.

Hammond.

Thele advantages are inamijjible.

\»h!'Si.adj. [/>««;>, Latin.] Empty; void.
It is ufed licentioufly for a fubrtantive.

In a'ppetency. n. /. [in and afpetentia,
Latin.]
Want of ftomach or appetite.
Ina'pfmcable. adj, [in and atplicable.'\
Not to be put to a particular ufe.
Inapplicabi'lity. «. f. [from inappli'
cable.]
Unfitnefs for the particular pur-

There

fel purpofe.

If

Inami'ssible. fli*/'. [inamijfible, French; in
and am-Jfum, Latin.] Not to be loft.

fulnefs in the veffels of the animal.
Weaknefs which attends fevers proceeds from tO»
great fulnefs in the beginning, and too great inanition
Arbutbnot on Diet,
in the latter end of the difeafc.
Ina'nity. n. f. [from inanis, Latin.]

1.

;

importeth a degree fo noariiTiment;

Not paid, or paid iuadtrtjuate in price.
What farther means can reafon now direA ? Dryden.
JnaJe'juate ideis are fuch, which are but a partial

Inadve'rtenCE.Iw./ [inad-vertance, Fr.

babU.

Dulcoration

and the making of things inalimental to become alimental, may be an experiment of great profit fot
making new victual.
Baecn,

Pofe,

inadequately.

Inabi'litt. »./.[/« and /7^r///jt.] Impawant of power.
jflancc ; impotence

and elimeniaLJ

Ina ni'tion.w./. [inanition, French; inanis,
Emptinefs of body; want of
Latin.]

Thefe pores they may either exactly fill, or but

1

[in

feflive ; falling below the due proportion.
Rcmorfc for vice

Defediively; not completely.

a ne-

adj.

Affording no nourifliment.

to the purpofe ; de-

iNA'oEtyjATELY. ad'v. [ftom inadequate,]

Tailrr.

In has commonly in compoHtion

adj.

or incomplete reprefcniation of ibofe archetypes to
which they are refened.
Locke.

from

back without keeping

Svifl.

Not equal

Latin.]

C^llitr.-

The pofture of left-handed fencers is (0 different

to fall

reit ;

Is inaltiviiy at b^rt.

home.

with you, if you oS°er
your guard.

Idle-

the endeavours of men, to introduce a lazy inuOiviiy, and negledt of tiie ordinary means of grace.

In the faid cavity lies loofe the (hell of fome fort
•f bivalve larger than could be introduced inn thnfe
holes.
h'ocd^vard,

6. Clofe;

lie

nHggiilinefs.
A dodlrine which manifelUy tends to difcourage

Into any place.

|ale, than to be totTed at fea with a ftorm ?

I

Pcpc.

gilhly.

Sbait/f. Merry fF/ves o/mndfor.

Next fill the hole with its own earth again.
And trample wiih thy feet, and Iread it in. DryJtn.
Is it not more eligible to come in with a fmoQth

than thofe which arc prefcnt :

In feafons of perfeft freedom, mark how your fon
fpends his time ; whether he inaSively loiters it
away, when left to his own inclination.
Locke.

nefs ;

another.

Inalime'ntal.

There's a kind of world remaining ftill,

Iua'ctiv?.. adj, [in and a^ite-l Notbufy;
not diligent; idle; indolent; fluggilh.
Ina'ctiv ELY. ad-v. [from inaSi've,'] Idly;
without labour; without motion ; flug-

advice.
I'll ;».

forbear-

in a refreihing kind of /»dA/o/r.

fopr.

Noting immediate entrance.
Go to thy fellows bid them cover the table, ferve

[ina^ion, French, in and

Ceffation from labour;

The times and amofements part are not more like

Sbakeffrart,

Muft never patriot then declaim at gin,
Unlefs, good man, he has been fairly in f

Diydcrt.

ance of labour.

Thefe pragmatical flics value ihemfelves for being

N A

To Ina'nimate. r. a. [in znAanimo, Lat.]

Ina'ction. n.f.

We know the worft can come; 'tis thought upon
We cannot Ihift being in, we muft go on. Djniel.
in at every thing, and are found at laft (• be jufl

confiJer nature and to copy her.

performances.

Engaged to any affair.

good for nothing.

'tis to

In a'c CURACY, n. /. [from ittaccurale,']
Want of exadnefs.
Ina'c CURATE, adj. [in and accurate.'] Not
cxaft ; not accurate.
It is ufed fometimes of perfons, but more frequently of

Within fome place; not out.
How infamous is the falfe, fraudulent, and uncon-

Soaib.
Sbaie/p.

which is fo noble, is not altogether
and that an eafy way may be found to

part,

inaccfjftble',

In. adv.

-

I

That cannot be alienated, or granted td

Lofe and neglcfl the creeping hours of time. Siaitf.
Many other hidden parts of nature, even of a far
lower form, are inacccffiHe to us.
Hale.
There Diall we fee the ends and ufcs of thefe
things, which here were either too fubtile for us to
penetrate, or too remote and inaccejfible for us to
come to any diliant view of.
Ray.

Sbakef^are,

1.

N A

Under (he (hade of melancholy bougtis,

Ctarijfa.

adj.

[in

and

alieiiablt.]

gence.

Ina'rable. tfuj/. [r« and arc, Latin.] Not
Diil.
capable of tillage.
To Ina'rch. ru. a. [rVrand arch.]
Inarching is a method of grafting, which is com'i'hig method
called grafting by approach,
of grafting ii ufed when the ftock and the tree maybe joined : take the branch you would inarch, and,
having fitted it to that part of the (lock where you
intend to join it, pare away the rind and wood on
one fide about three inches in length : after the lame
manner cut the rtock or branch in the place where
the graft is to be united, fo that they may join equally
together that the fap may meet: then cut a little
tongue upwards in the graft, and make a notch in
the (lock to admit it; fo that when they arc joined
the tongue will prevent their flipping, and the graft
Having thua
will more clofet/ unite witb (he ftoclL,

moniy

6 L X

placed

,

IN A

NC

I

f'lUti them widly together, tie them ; then eorer
the place with grjftingclay, to prevent the air from
or the-wct fmm getting
in to rot the liock : you fliould fix a (lake into the

m.tnner';
iiig,

hut fome fort of their InturailcH, or gllj.
Ariiulljnot on Ctini.

'•

IsACspi'cious.

a<^'.
[/» and e/t/fiicioai.]
Ill-omened; unlucky; unfortunate.

ground, to wliich that part of [he (lock, as alfo the
graft, Itiould be fafteiied, to prevent the wind from
In this manner they are to
bieaking them afunder.
remain about four months, in which lime they will
be fulficiently united J and the graft may then be

I will fct up

Oh here'
my everlafting reft

I

The nuptial rites his outrage liraight attend.^
The pow'r defir'd is his ttaosfigur'd friends
The incaniaii'^n backward ftic repeats,

Shaiefp,

Inverts her uA, and what (he did, defeats.

Cartb.
The comiaands which our religion h,ith impofcd
on its followers are not like the abfiltd cercmonm
of pagan idolatry, that might look like incantair-^m'. I
and magick, but had nb tiendency td make mankind

Though heaven's inaujpicious eye
Lay black on love's nativity.
Her eye a ftrong appcJ can give

formed in April or May, and is commonly praftifed
npon oranges, myrtles, jafmines, walnuts, firs, and
.pines, which will not fuccced by common grafting

Crajbenv.

Beauty fmites, and love ftiall live.

The ftars feel not the difeafea their itiaufficious

,

the happier.

Biyle.

influence produces.
With inaufpicious love a wretched fwaih

MUUr.

By the harmony of words we elevate the mind to

folemn mufick, which
-<l feiife of devotion i as our
Diydcn.
js inatiiculatt poefy, doih in churches.

IsARTi'cULATELV. adv.\Uom inaiHtin I'nborn. adj. [r» and/tarw.j
planted by nature.
Not diftindly..late.]
Led by the fenfeof good,
Inarti'culateness. »./. [fiom iuarticaInborn
Intf.]

Confufion of founds ; want of di-

iNARTrFl'ciAL.

adj.

['»

artificial.]

Contrary to art.
have ranked this among the effcfts; and if may
be thought inntiifcial to make it the caufc alio.
I

Decay 'jf Piety

CJIier.

denyingproleflion.

»./.

[;'»»i'/c)r//c«,

French

Difregard ; negligence;

in?LnAatle>itioti.]

ncglcft; heedleffnefs.

Bleft pair of fyrens, pledges of Heaven's joy,

We

J.vatte'ntive. adj. [»n and ntteuliie.]
Heedkfs; carclefs ; negligent; rcgardlefs.
! f

we itidulge the fretjiient roving ol palTions, we

(hall pmcure an unfteady and iitaitemivt habit.
ff'alt!.

Inav'dibi.e. adj. [in and audibli.] Not to
be heard ; void of found.
Let's take the indant by the forward top;
For we arc old, and on our quick 'ft decrees

Th' inaudible and noifclefs foot of time
Steals, ere we can effeft them.

defcrve; but there is an impulfe of tcndernefs, and
there muti be fome cfteem for the fctting of that

inbred atfe£lion at work.
L'EJirangc.
But he unmov'd contemns their idle threat;
And inbred woriii doth boafting valour flight.

Dryden.

To Inc a'g e. 1'. a. [in and cage.] To coop
up; to (liut up; to confine in a cage, or
any narrow fpacc.
-

to

a

new

Thofe beginnings of years were propitious to him,
as if kings did chufe remarkable days to i>:augurjie
their favours, that they may appear adls as well of
M'ottin.
the time as of the will.

In AtJOURA'xiON.

n. /. [ivaugurat ion, Fr,

inaugure, Latin.]

Inveftiturc by folemn

The royal otire was fulemnly fworn, at his litauguraiijtt, to obferve thefe things inviolaUe,

At his regal inauguration his old
the kingdom to him.

nxura'tion.

fi.

Htnutl.

father reiigned

Broiun'i Vulgar Erreurs.

/ [/«(7»ro, Latin.] The

aft of gilding or covering with goldf.
The Rvnuiu had the att of gilding after our

Sbal:cfpeare,

Not able to admit or have any thing.

J.

Wiimot, when he t*aw Coring put in the command, thought himfelf /»M/>ji/t ofrepar.!tionClarendurt*

Unable

^.

;

not equal to any thing.

Is not your father grown incapable

Of rcafonablc aftairs? is he not ftupid
With age >
Sbalief. trinter't Tale.
Difqualified by law.
J.
Their lands are almoft entirely taken from tliem,
and they arc rendered inc.ipahie of purchating any
more.
S^vift.

In converfation it is ufual to /ay a man
of falfehood, or incapable of
gcneroiity, or of any thing good or bad.

6.

is incapable

I

Inc apa'ciou's. adj. [in and capacieus.l
S bakejp. Henry W.
Narrow of finall content.

Conceive.

;

Incanta'tion.
iacanta, Latin.]

«.

/.

[incantation,

enlarge their thoughts to take in any great compafs
Burner, •
of limes or things-

Charms uttered by fing-

Shakefp. Henry

VL

that her incantation, became the fuUIil c^f labour,
Raleigh.
forrow, and death.
The great wonders of witches, their carrying in
the air, and transforming themfelves into other
bodies, are reported to be wrought, not by inran'
tatioHi or ceremonies, but by anointing themfelves

move a man to think that thefe fables are
it Uid on

tbt clfccU oi imaginauoa; for oiatmcntsj

5"o

Incapacitate, v. a.

[/« and

fa/a««

tate.]
1,

Todifable; to weaken.
Nothing of confequence ihould be left to be don«
in the laft incapacitating hours of life.

2.

Clarijfi,

To difqualify.
Monftrofity could not ineapaeitalr from marriage.
Arbufhttot,

My ancient incantations are too \vcak,
And hell too ftrong.

Incapa'ciousness. n.f. [from incapacioui. ]
Narrownefs; want of containing fpace.

Fr.

ing; enchantment.

all over,

Souls that are made little and incapacious, cannot

;

By Adam's hearkening to his wife, mankind, by

rites.

Incapable and (hallow innocents

Incale'scence. 1 ». /. [incaUjca, Latin.]
Incale'scenct. I The ftate of growing
warm warmth incipient heat.
;

begin with

with

Ay, fuch a pleafure as incaged birds

Averroes reftrained his hilarity, making no more

to invert with

:

You cannot guefs who caus'd your father's death.

Sbak,

thereof than Seneca commendcth, and was allowable
in Cato ; that is, a fober incalrftenn, and regulated
eftuation from wine.
Brorvn.
The oil prefcrvcs the ends of the bones from
Inc.i/e/ceney, which they, being folid bodies, would
neccfiarily contntft from a fwift motion.
Hay.

by folemn rites;
good omens ; to begin.

•'

'

ftand.

incaged in fo fmajl a verge.

Staiiff

ofEce

'

wanting underftandingj
unable to comprehend, learn, orunder-

Millon't ParaJi/e Lifi.

yi Inau'gurate. v. a. [/«/T<i'jf//r», Latin.]

To confecrate;

SueiJing.

[inca^abh, Fr,] in asd

o^Ijefore the thing to be contained.

1

A man tliirjks better of his children than tliey

.\iid yet

adj.

2. Wanting power;

;

I'nbb ED. adj; [in and bred.] Produced within ; hatched or generated within,
M y inbred enemy

Thy waftc is no whitleftcr than thy lord's.
It made my imprifonment a pleafurc ?

kind of inejpa.

Wanting room to hold or contain

Mi/io/r.

',

a

capable.]

•

i.

'

Forth iftu'd.

.//

ii/iiv in youifell to the fervice.

lNCA*PAnLE.

'

Inability natural; tiif-

qualification legal.
\'ou have nothing to urge but

Sphere-born harmonious lifters. Voice and Verl'e,
Wed your divine founds, and mixt power employ,
Dsad things with inbreatij'd tenk, able to pierce.

I

Verfons keep out of the reach of the reproofs of
the roinifttv, or hear with fuch iitattcnlhii or conRogeri.
tempt as reiiders them of little efFeft.
fee a ftrange iitallciliott to this moft important
Rogers.
jrofpeO.
Novel lays attrafl our ravirti'd ears;
Pope.
But old, the mind with innlientiin hears.

iNCA'PABi.ENEas. J

I

•

Jnatte'ntion.

..

,

And ftight th' imperial diadem for thee. Aaaifqn,
adj. [in Awi breath.]
Infpired; infufed by infpiration.

.

the incorporating Geneva in tli^ c.:ntonsr the Ror.j^a
Catholics, fearing the Proietlanc inteiell, piopu.ill
the incanlouing of Conftauce as. a countcrpoil'e.
.
Addijon on fl.ily,
.
_

Incapadi'litv. \n,/. [(lom iMcapabie]

rNRRK'ATHED.

Inartifi'cially. ed'v [ from inartificial.
Without art; in a manner contrary to the
rules of art.
This lofty humour is cUimfily and inr.rttJicltHy
managed, when it is affeaed by thofe of a felf-

Jpnate; Im-

Dr\dett.
(bughtiViy needful food.
All paftions being inborn within us, we are almoft
e<jual|y judges of them*
Dtylen.
Some Carolina, to Heaven's diiSates true.
Thy inborn worth with conlcious eyes ftiall fee.
to all,

ftinftnefs in pronouncing.

and

To Inca'n ION. ev. a. [in and canton.] 'V6
unite to a canton or fcparate communirv.
When the cantons of Hcrtw and Zurich propol-. i*

thefcare proper or inherent .modes; for they have
a foirt. of Inirring^ in the fubftaitce itfelf, and do not
irifelrom the addition of any other fubftance to Tt.

the

'

;

Fortune-tellers, jugglers, geomancers, and'ihehltc
/«c.r/r/<i/5ry impoftors, daily delude them.
Brov^ir,

infeparablenefs.
U'lien we fay the bowl is round* the boy is w^ttJ.•,

Obferve what inartUulalr founds refrmble any of
H'ilkhn's Maih. M.igict.
particular letters.

heni.'ty,

Inca'.ntatory. adj. [from »W(7)r/<7, Lat.j
Dealing bv enchantment magical.

Inarti'cui..\TE. aJJ. {inartkule, Fr. in
Purfu'd the faireft nymph of all the plain;
She plunged him hopelcfs in a deep defpair. Dryden.
and articitlote.] Not uttered with diftinrtnefs, like that of the fyllables of Inbe'ing. ».y^ [in zxiA bting.] Inherence;

human fpcech.

r

,

I

;

And ftiake the yoke of //wu/i/r/oKi ftarj
From this world-wearied flolB.

cut from the mother-tree, obfening to llope it off
tlofe to the (lock, and cover the joined parts witli
The operation is always perfrefh grafting clay.

N C

•ny thing thick, by flopping of the pArUilhut iit-the
vapours, and fend them to the head eiuemdv.
Bacon's Nalwa! Uijiory.
The name of a city being difcovered unto their
enemies, ih^fr penatea amd patronal gods mi^hi be
called forth by«harms and /"(•iWd'iVjM.
Brou'tt,

mull have been dearer than ours.

ciileriii^ to dry the wound,

or budding.

I

Incapa'city. n.f. [incapticiti, French, in
ivA capacity ,] Inability; want of natural
power; want of power of body; want
of comprehenfivenefs of mind.
It chiefly proceedeth from natural incapacity, and

Brown's Vulgar Errouri.
Admonition he imputes either to envy, or cife
ignorance and incapacity of eftimating his worth.
Cevtritsntnl e/tbc Tongue.

genial iudifpofition.

I
^,

N-C
A fpeciti ef palfy invades fuch as inectutiou/tf ex-

moved with any ihing common.
f. ff \incarcero , Latin.]
To imprifon to confine. It is ufed in
ArbuiVr.ut.

itf I N c a'r c E R A T E

.

pOfe tlieml'eives to the morning air.

Ince'ndiaRV. »./.

.

the Scots law to dcotc imprifoning or
confining in a g.iol; otherwife it is fcldom found.
Contagion miy be propagated by bodies, thatufily

Imprifonment
•

a.

.

im;EKSE. n.f.

and make exluliaiion of what is necelTary, and ;«'

To breed flefti.

To iNCA'aN. a>, ».

'
,

The Hough came off, and the ulcer happily /«car fit J.

Vt'iJ^mart.

TelNCA'RNADlNE. "i/, /7. {^incarnadine, Fr.
Incitrnadinoi pale reil, Italian.]

•

Numa the rites of ftria rclision knew
On ev'ry altar laid the incen/e'duc.
Prior.
To I'n c £ ns e. t. a. [from the noun.] To
perfume with incenfe.
To INCE'iSSE. iv. a. [incenfus. I^tin.]

To dye

,

To clothe with flefh

incarno, Lat.J

.

;

to

:

embody with flelh.
I, who erft contended
Into a heaft, and mix with beOial lliir.c,
ThisetVcnce to /V/i:jr;V(2/e' and Imbrutc.

'

•

Inca'rnate.
1,

participial

.adj.

To have his ear abus'd, wifdom bids fear.

Hooker.
moll wife fufficient means of redemption and
;
falvation, by the fatisfa«5lory death and obedience of

A

if,

incej/jni,

In lorin, a herald of the king

^"""-^NTLY.

n. /. {incarnation, French

flic flies

incejfant cries.

adv.

Without intermiflion

[from
;

Pr^fe,

inceffant,]

continually.
feculent,

Above ihe water were on high extent.

Shak.

And tain'd to walh themfelves inceffanth,
"^

Who reads

VUL
Ineeff,inily,

FairvS,
-^^

and to his reading brings not

A Ipmt and judgment equal or fuperior.

Milton.
through

the Chriftians, who carried their religion

many perfecutions, v.tK incejfamly comforting

lo

one another with the example ano
hillory of our Saviour and his apoftles.

Addifon.

I'NCEST. n. f. [inceffe, French

;

inceflum,

Latin.]
Unnatural and criminal conjunftion of perfons within degrees pro-

Shakefpcare.

Ince'nsion. n. /.

Shatefpeare,

by pray 'r
could hope to change the will

Kotli his hands moll filthy

heat; fury.

Swift.

is

SLahffi.

I

Frorti peer to peer, and thus

His inccnjement ar this moment is fo implacable,

applied to any
thing tinged of a deep red colour, frora
its rcfemblance to a flefh colour.

1.

Raging wind blows tip incejfant fhow'rs.

1 lie incejfant weeping of my wife,

that fatisfaCtion can be none but by pangs of death.

But he's pofieft,
Incarnate with a thoufand imps.

continual

Forc'd me to feek delays.

NC e'n s E M E N T. «./. [trom incenfe,'] Rage

derftood this word.

.

unintermitted ;
uninterrupted.

Milton's Paradifi Liifi.
How could my pious fon thy pow'r incerijri
Or what, ala^l ikvanqui(h'd Troy's offence? Dryd.
I

and ciffans, Latin.]

[i«

Unceafing ;

God, as to leave them.

Here (halt thoti fit iitcariiate,hen (halt reign
Milton's Parad^e l.oJ).
Both God'and man.
2, It may be doubted whether Sivift un-

from incarnate.

nefs.

Foul idolatries, and other faults,
Heap'd to the popular fum, will fo incenfe

the Ixcarnaie fon oi God, Jefus Chrift; God blelTtd
•
"
- •
Sanderfin.
fer e»rr.

In c A R N a't 10 s

Sbaieff. Henry

Fr. «.'

[incertitttde,

Uncertainty; doubtful-

Ince'ssant. adj

Tradable obedience is a (lave

To each incenfed will.

lelfflefli.

'•

certitudo.ljsA.]

He Is attended with a defp'rate train
And what they may incenfe him to, being apt

perfon of the fon, is incamtue, and bath taken to i t-

3, In Scotland incarnale

Ince'rtitude, », /.

Shak.

French, from the verb.]
Clothed with flefti ; embodied with flelh.
Undoubtedly even the nature of God itfelf, in the

The
Uia,

Ol liim who all things can, I would
not ceafe
1 o weary him with my affiduous cries.
Milton.

Caf.
U 'gaiiillyoutfelf you be irtcent'd, we'll put yoii,
Like one that means his proper harm, in manacles.

[incfirnat,

A beginner;

aft of covering with wax.

The world, roofaucy with the gods,
Incenfcs them to fend dcftruflion. Shak. Julias

Miltui.

[Latin.]

f.

Incera'tion. n. f. [/wfro, Latin.]

furious; to exafperate.

With gods to fit the higheft, am now conftrain'J

},.

one who is in his rudiments.

To enkindle to rage ; to inflame with
anger; to enrage; to provoke; to irritate to anger; to heat; to fire; to make

Making the green 'one red. Sbaiefpeart^s Macbeth.

^0 Inca'rnate. 'V. (».] incarner, French

iNeE'PToR.

'

The multitudinous fca iKcaritadine^

Bacon.

beginning.

;

TV\% word I find only once.
red.
Will all great Neptune's ocean wafh this blood
Clean from my hand ? No, this mv hand will rather

;

Bentley.

»'""•,

An inceptive and defitive propofition ; as. The fogs
vanilh as the fun riles ; but the fogs have
not yet be.
gun to vanilh therefore the fun is not yet rifen.
Locke:

Latin, a thiiig

burnt; encens, French.]
Perfumes exhaled by fire .in honour of fome god or
goddefs.
Upon fuch faeri(ices, my Cordelia,
The gods thcmlelvcs throw /wivw/i. Sbat. K. Lear.

H'ljeman,

earn it.

{Jncenftan,

Latin.]

Inge PTIVE. adj. [incepti-viis, Lat.] Noting

Several cities of Greece drove them out as iiuen-

_

diaries, and pells of commonweals.

The flet>i will foon arife in that cut of the bone,
;

^

Addifon.

cover with fiefh.

{inceptio,

Beginning.
The inception of putrefaflion hath in it a matuM-

Inctiidiarhi of figure and diftinflion, who are the
inventors and publilTiers ofgrofsfalfehoods, cannot be
regarded but with the utmoll detet^ation.

-To

'

Decay of Piety,

Nor could any order be obtained impartially to
examine impudent ;wi7r,//anVf.
Xing Charles.

.^^

J

InceVtion. n.f,

quarrels.

'

confinement.
[incarm, Latin ]

;

"u.

Competency is the moft /ffrf»/;v; /o induftry too
makes men defptrate, and too much carelcls.

little

?. One who inflames faftions, or promotes

Harvey.

Ta I N c a'r N.

[incendiaiiuu

malice or for robbery.

incarcerate the infe£ied air; as woollen clothes.

IScaRCera'tion- n.f [iiom incarcerate

Artulheot.

from in/wfW/(zw, French.]
One who fets honfes or towns on fire in

'.

'

'^^f'^'TIvt. «<A'. Inciting; encouraei«»:
with to.

ff«.^, Latin;

:

•

N C

I

TKt hiiflivity e>( the foul is it< !»c«f»tUy to \>t

hibited.

Latin.]
The
aft of kindling; theftateof being on fire.

From their own filler's (hame ?

Sena lofes its wmdinefs by decoiliing ; and fubtile or windy fpirils ut taken off bj incfujion or evaporation.
Bacon.

He jwbo entered in the firft adl, a youn^man likt
Pericles, prince of Tyre, muft not be in danger
in the
fifth afl of committing incefl with bis daughter.

{incenfto,

Is

't

not a kind of Inetft to take life
Shalcefpeare.

Dry den's Dufrefnoy.
Inceksor. n.f. [Latin.] A kindler of
The aft of alTuming body.
Incestuous, adj. {incefleux, Fr.] Guilty
an inflamer of paflions.
anger
We mull beware we exclude not the nature of God
'\

;

make the fon of God inHxlter.
carnate not to be very God
Upon the Annunciation, or our Lady-day, meof
our
ble(Ted
incarnation
Saviour.
the
diUU on
from incarnation, and

'

Taylor's Guide to Dtvotii^n,

J.

The pulfailon under the cicatrix proceedi-d from
tViJtm.w.
the too lax incarnation of the w yund
.

Hayward.

cenfors of the rage.

tion.

Hide me, thou bloody hand,

Ince'nsory, n.f. [from incenfe."]
The
vcflel in which incenfe is burnt and offer'

ed.

The ftate of breeding flefh.

INc I

'

Thou perjure, and ihou fimiilar of virtue,
Tliat art imcjlmus.

.S/juke/Cieare's King Lear,
We may' eafily guefs with what impatience the
world would have heard ip incrjluous Herod dif-

Ainftvorth.

N T I V r , n.f. [incentivum, Latin.

That which kindles.

1.

courimgofch-illity.

difcontent.

Ince'stuously. r?</z'.
With unniitural love.

f^'>'g Charles.

flefh^.

the abfctfs, and incamed

mon incarnatrve.

by the com-

2.

To cover

[from

incefiuotlt.]

Macarcus and Canacc, fon and daughter fOy^olus,
god of the winds, loved each other incejluoufly,

rxTr^tr

INCH. n. f,

;

Congruity of opinions, to our natural conllituliun,
is one great incentive to their reception.

The pillars lilver.
Pope's Odyffry.
I.ncau'ticu*. adj. [/'» and cautious.\ Un-

I.
|

Glaii'ilU's Ssepjis.
Even the wifdom of Cod hath not fuggeftcd more
prelTing motives, more powertul incefitives to cha-

wary ; negligent

heedlefs.
;
His rhetorical exprelTions may eafily captivate any

rity, than Ihcfe, that we (hall be judged by it at the

Kcil af^ainji Httrnet

Incav'tiouslv. adv. [from incanliem.']
Unwary; heedlcfsly; negligently.

,

;

to inclofe ; to iuwrap.
Rich plates of gold the folding doors incafe,

\ncavti':ui reader.

That which provokes ; that which encourages ; incitement; motive ; encouragement four. It is ufed of that \v;hich
incites, whether to good or ill
with to,

fVrfeman's .Surgery.

To In o's E. "v. a. [in and cafe. ]

Isoiitb.

Ere you reach to this incefluous love.
You mu(V divine and human rights remove. Dryden.

Theii^unreafonable Icverity was not the Icift incentive, that blew up into thofe flames the fparks of

Inca'r NATIVE, n.f. \iticarnaiij\ French,
from incarnr^ A meoicine that generates
I deterged

of inceft ; guilty of unnatural cohabita-

Many priells were impetuous and importunate in.

fo

•

Atterbury.
lad dieadful day.
It encourages fpeculative perfons, with all the inunttvu e/pl««e, pfofif, and preferment, Adiifon.

Dryden.
[ince,

Saxon; uncia. Lat.]

A

meafure of length fuppofed equal to
three grains of barley laid end to end;
the twelfth part of a foot.

A

foot is the fixih part of the ftature of man, a
fpan one eight of it, and a thumb's breath or ;»rAone
feveniy-fecond.
Holder on 'Time,
The fun Ihould never mifs, in all his race.

Of lime one minute, or one /wiof fpacc. Blackmne.
I.

A

INC

2.

Ainf'viorth.

I'nched.

advance or retire a

time.

adj,

before it.]
or breadth.

Lar.]

Cafual ; fortuitous ; occafional ; happening accidentally ; ifltiing in belidc the

main defign; happening befide expcfta-

[with a word of number
Containing inches in length

Inchipik. n. /. Some of the infide of a
Ahtjinorth,

deer.
\lnch

n. f.

A

and meal.^

piece an inch long.
All th' infcftionsthat the fun fucks up

From bogs, fens, flats, on Profpero fall, and make hi m
Shakefpearc's Temfcji.
By inchmeal a difeafe
Jo Inchoate, t: a. \iHchoo, Lat.] To
begin ; to commence.
I

nor a fubftance
iitchoaltyOt ialkevnyofjtetkOion.Rticigb'sHificry.
It IS neither a fubftance perfeG,

Inchoa'tion. n.y.

[inchoatu:, Lat.j

In-

ception ; beginning.
difcemcth of four kinds of caulcs; forces,
frauds, crimes various of (lellionate, and the in.
cboalionsat middle afU towards crimes capital, not
Bacon.
aduallj' perpetrated.
The letting on foot fome of thofe arts in thofe parts
would be looked upon as the firft incboalioa of them,
which yet would be but their reviving.
Half*s Origin of Mankind.
It

Inchoative, a/^". [/«iri6oa/»rf, French

;

in-

Inceptive j noting inLat.]
choating or beginning.
fa Inci'de. v. a. [from iticido, to cut,
choati-vus,

As the ordinary courfe of comtiion affairs is difpofed of by general laws, io likewife men's rarer
incident necellitiesand utilities Ihould be with fpecial

Hooker.

equity confideicd.

would note in children not only their articulate
anfvers, but likewife fmiles and frowns upon incident
IVotion.

occafions.

In a complex propolition the predicate or fubjefl is
fometimes made complex by the pronouns who,
which, whofc, whom, &ci which make another
propolition
as, every man, wlu> is pious, Ihall be
laved: Julius, whofe lirnaoie was C<efar, overcame
Pompey bodies, which are tranfparent, have many
:

:

Here the whole propofitibn is called the primary or chief, and the additional propolition is
kfatts,
called an inrideat propofition.
2. Happening; apt to happen.
pores.

Coiirtancy

is

fuch

a

firmncfs

1'ncident.
adjeftive.]

from the
Something happening befide
[incident, Fr.

«, /.

the main defign ;

cafualty.

His wifdom will fall into it as an incidrnt to the
Bacon's Holy fVar.
point of la'vfulnefs.
No pcrfon, no incident in the play, but muft be ot

;

;

pofe.

The fatlsfaftlon you received from

bufinefs, to be dene when they

'I'ncidence. 7 «•/• \jncido, to fall, Lat.
incidence, French.]
I'ncidhncy. 5
1. The direftion with which one body
ftrikes upon another, and the angle made
by that line, and the pbne ftruck upon,
In the
the angle of incidence.
occurfions of two moving bodies, their
incidence is faid to be perpendicular or
oblique, as their direflions or lines of
motion malce a ftraight line or an obliq-ie
^liucj.
angle at the point o? contaft.
is called

In mirrourt there is the like zr\^to( incidence,
from the objed of the glafs, and from the glafs to the

Bacon.
He enjoys his happy ftate moft when he communicates it, and receives a more vigorous joy from
the refleiion than fmaj the dirc<ii incidency of his

«fe.

Norris.

.kappiocfs.

ia i^ual

ineiJencei

there

ii

a confiderable in-

thofe Uci-

dental difcourfes whicii we have wandered into.
Milttm.
By fome, religious duties fcarce appear to be reincidental
only
as an
^rded at all, and by others
d«.

Arlutbnot.

Dryden.

ufe to carry on the main defign.

iNclDE'NTAL.at^'. Incident; cafual; happening by chance not intended not deliberate ; not necelTary to the chief pur-

Medicines ire faid to inciie which confift of
pointed and (harp particles; as acids, and moft falts,

*y vthich the particles oi other bodies are divided
from one another : thus expe£torating medicines are
Qjiincj.
faid to inciJt or cut the phlegm.
The menfes are promoted by all faponaceous
fubdances, which incidt the mucus in the fini

of friendlhip as

overlooks all thofe failures of kindnefs, that through
patron, incident to human natuie, a man may be
South.
guilty of.

Latin.]

paiTagcs.

Byle.

iNCiRCVsuspE'vTloit. tu /. [in and dr.
c'irn/pedion.]
Want of taution want of
:

heed.
An unexpe^d way of dclufion, whereby be more
eafily led away the incirci^mff>eOion uf iheii belief.
Bronm^
Inci'sed. adj. [incijir, Fr. incifus, Lat.]
Cut ; made by cutting: as, ifi ktajiir^
1

wound.
I

brought the inctftd lips together.

Ififtman.

Inci'sion. «. /. (iaci/icn, Fr. inci/to, Lat.]
cut; a wound made with a (harp
1.
inftrumenf.
Generally ufed for wounu»

A

tion.

1

Poor Tom, proud of heart to ride on a bay trotting
horfc over four ijrcifi/ bridges. Sbakefp. King Lear.

Inchmeal,

Tiate talle of othc<^ falls made by ineinermim.

,

He gets too ht into the foldicrs graces.
Orydn'$ Cltamerrrt.
And in(hn out my maiter.
9. To deal out by inches ; to give fparingly

little at a

hap; ca-

What ineidrncy thou do'ft guefj of harm declare,
Tscreeping towards me. Shakefpeare's tVimer t Tale.

1.

Valiant they fay, but very popular;

To

Accident;

Lat.]

[Incidtm,
fualty.

rNCIDENT. adj. {incident, Fr. incidens,

To drive by inches.

To Inch. -v. a.

Newton's Optickt.

whiteoefs argues, that ili like
inddcncei o( the rays there is no fuch feparatioo of
Nc-wlon.
the emerging rays.

Sbakejfcare.

Jo Inch. v. a. [from the noun.]

in the fixt fait of arlne, (irougfit bf
depuration to be very white, a tafte not unlike com*
mon lair, and very differing from the cauftick liii*

The permanent

A nice point of time.
Beldame, I thintc, we watch'd yon at an Inch.

NC

I ebfefted

it

difturbed.

As in lafting, fo in length is man,
Doine.
ConlraiAcd to an inch, who was a fpan.
Is it lo ddirable a condition to confume by irtcirs
CMir.
by
drops
i
ind lofe one's blood
The commons were growing by degrees into power
and property, gaining ground upon the patricians i«ch
Swifi.
by inch.

I.

I

be that roine of
the incident rays are refrafted more and others lefs
tonftanily, or one and the fain« ny is by refradion

equality of refraOions, whether

The plebeijns have got your fellow tribune
They'll gi»e him death by inetes. Sbak, Corlnlanui.

3.

N C

I

A proTerbial name for a fmall quantity.

t>

have nothing elfe to
Rogers.

Incide'stally. etd-v. [from incidental.]
Befide the main defign ;

occafionally.
Thefe general rulej are but occafionally and intidentaljy mentioned in Scripture, rather to maniftft unto us a former, than to lay upon us a new
Sander/on.

obligation.

1 treat either purpefely at incidiHlally of colours.

made by a chirurgeon.
Let us make incijion for your lore.

To prove whofe blood is reddeft, his or mine.

adm'llion of the other, .ns when the earth falls open
under the incifion of the plough, and when it gapea
to drink in the dew of heaven, or ihe refrelhincius
Souib^
of a (hower.
A fmall incijt-^n knife is more handy than a larger
Sharp^s Surgery,
for opening the bag.

2, Divifion of vifcofities by medicines.
Abfterfion is a fcouring ofli', or incijion of vifcout
humours, and making them fluid, and cutting between them and the part; as in nitrous water, which

cafionally;

Oc-

crown takes away
Bacon's HenryWi.

To Inci'nerate. v. {>. [/« and
Lat.]
To burn to afhe.'s.

cineres,

doth incimtatt and
Bactn.
Fire bumeth wood, making it firft luminous, then
incinerate.
broken
and
and
brittle,
laftly
black
and
Bacon.
Thefe dregs are foon incinerated and calcined into
fuch falls which produce coughs. Harvey onCoxfump.
fragile !

laftly, it

calcinate.

Incinera'tiok.

n.

/.

[itineration,

Fr.from

inci/itt„

The colour of many corpufculei will cohere bjr
being precipitated together, and be dcftroyed by the
effiifion of very piercing and incijive liquors.
Boyle.
Inci'sor. n.J.

[/wi/ir, Latin.]

Cutter;

tooth in the forepart of the mouth,
Inci'sor. adj, [incifoire, Fr.] Having the
quality of cutting.

Inci'sure.

n, J.

[iucifura,\a.\..'\

A cut;

an aperture.
In fome creatures it is wide, in fome narrow, in
fome with a deep incifure up into the head, for the
better catching and holding of prey, and comminuting

Derhan^,

of hard food.

/

Incita't.ion. ».
[incitalio, Lat.]
Incitement; incentive; motive; impulfe;
the aft of inciting ; the power of ia<
citing.
Ur. Kidley deRnes magnetical attraQion to be »
and dilpofition conforming unto
contiguity, an union of one magnetical body unto
Brown's Vulgar Errours.
another.
The multitude of objeiis do proportionably multiply both the poflitiilities and laciiations.
natural incitutiws

Government of the Tongut^

The mind gives rot only licence, but inellelien to
the other pallions to aft with the utmoft impctuofity.

To INCI'TE, 1). a., [incito, Lat. inciter, Fr.]
To ftir up ; to pufh forward in a purpofe; to animate; to fpur; to urged on.
How many now in health
Shall drop their blood, in approbation

Ily baking, without melting, the heat induralcth,

then maketli

[inci/if,

Decay of Fitly.

amongit the judges what
the king himfelf, who was at-

It was incidenih moved

thai the

adj.

Lat. J Having the quality of cutting 01
dividing.

by the bye; by the way.

(hould be done tor
tainted; but refolvcd
deieds.

Biicon»

fcoureth linen.

Inci'sivE.

Boyle.

I'ncidently. ij/i'. [from »»oVt'»/.]

Sbak,

God help thee, ihallow man: Cod make inci^cn in thee, thou ail raw.
Si>ak. Asyou like ir.
The reception of one is as diHerent ixom the

Fr.

from incineiate.] The aft of burning
any thing to allies.

Of what your reverence (hail incite us to? Shake/fi,
No blown ambition doth our arms incite;
But k>vc, dear love, and our ag'd lather's right.
Shakrfp,
Antiochus, when he ireited Pnifiat to join in war,
fet before him the greatncfs of the Romans, comparing it to a hie, thm took and fpread from kingdom
Bacon,
to kingdom.
Nature and common reafon, in all difficulties,
where prudence or courage arc required, do rather
incite us to fly for alTilbuice to a fugle perfon than -a
multitude.

S*vifi,

Incit£.

N C

I

TLt Iting w«f wonderfully difqui«(«i!, *hen lie
found that the prince was touUy aliened from all

IffCi'TEj^EyT. «./. [from /»«/(•.] Motive;
incentive; impulfe; inciting caufe.
A mantl it were, if a man of grtat capacity,
hivir.g fuch inciwrrxtt to make him dcfirous of ill

Clarendon,

A

mere inelinaliat to a thing is not properly a
willing of that thing; and yet, in matters of duty,
men frequently reckon it for fuch : for otherwife

fiinherances unto his caufe. could efpy in the whole
fcripture of God nothing wfiich might breed at the
leaft a proKable opinion of likelihood, that divine
authority was the fame way ioclinable,
flooker.

Harthb feems fcnt

hltiier by iorae good provithe occalion and ixcitemtm of great
jood to this ifland.
Miltcn.
If thou muft reform the ftu'oborii times,

they are juftly charged
formance of the law >

4.

From the long records of a diftant age
Unpolifhed.

n^illoifon.

Dryden.
r
Difpofition of mind.
Bid him
Report the features of Odavia, her years.
Her inclination.
Shake/. Amony and Cleopatra.
6. The tendency of the magnetical needle to
the Eaft or VN'eft.
f( [In pharmacy.] The aft by which a

In this fenfc it has a

clear liquor is poured off from fomcfa;ces

civility.]
-I.

Want of courtefy

;

rudenefs.

He does olfend againfl that reverence- which is
due to the common apprehciilioni of mankind,
•rhetherUue or not, which is the greateft inehility.

2. Aft

of rudenefs.

Abllaio from diflblute laughter, uncomely jefts,
loud talking and jeering, which, in civil account,

Incle'mency. ».y;
mtntia, Lat.]

\incltmence, Yt. incU-

Dryitn.

ufed oftener of things

n INCLl'NE.

MilliH.
I

1.

Naked, dcfencele&, on a foreign laod
Propitious to my wants, a veil I'upply,

unto the dead.

Spfnfer.

The gall and bitternefs of certain men's writings,
»Jio fpared him little, made him, lor their fakes,
the lefs inclinable to that truth which he himfelf
Ibouid have honoured.
Hoohr

Shakefp
Abimelech. "Judge,.

a.

2. Having a tendency.

"".[..«)'>=-''<'';

Milton.

^
hos lar both
armies to „
Belinda yield
.

I

It fuch a crulk naturally fell, then if was
more
likely and inclinatle «fail this ihoufand years

A tow'ring ftruiturc to the palace join'd;

Com. Prayer
You have n..t 'nclinedyoureiruqtomc.Jerei^ai
But thit from us aught IhoulJ afcend to
heav'n
-So prevalent,

the inclinarioa of half a

i». Natural aptnefs.
\.

3. Propenfion of mind; favourable difpofition ; Incipient dclirc.

mifname

Boyle

confideration.

Decay of Piety

Inco'citative, adj. [in and cogitati-vi.]
Wanting the power of thought.
Purely material beings, as clippings of our beards,
fenfible, thinking, perceiving beings,
fuch at

and

Of God high-blell, or to incline his will.

we find ourfelves, we
gitative beings.

Inco'onito.

lobcnd; to incurvate.

To Incli'p. 'V. a. [in andr///.]

who

unobfequioufnefs to their

Hard to belief may feem, yet this will prayer.

With due rcfpeO my body 1 iuclin'J,
As to fome being of (iiperior kind.

to fucceeders,

all

incogitancy, prefumption.

Next to the llupid and merely vegetable ftate
of
incogitancy, we may rank partial and piece-meaj

as to concern the mind

Nrtvion.

Addihn.

afterwards

or attentive.

The two rayi, being equally refraflcd, have
the
lame Inclination /» one another after rcfraaion
which

Snce the promontory has been cultivated,
there arc
ftill many fpots of it which (hew
the natural in.
cimation of the foil leans that way.

Inco'citancy. n.f. [inco£itantia,'LiUa.]
Want ot thought.

2. To turn towards any thing, as
defirous

with to.

up

Unknown ; in private^
But if you're rough, and ufe him like a dog.
Depend upon it, he'll remain incog.
Addifpn.

Pate

Incline our hearts to keep this law.

Locke,

incognito, Latin.]

To this his Heps the thoughilul prince inclin-J. Pope.

lvc\.iv \'rioit.n.j:[inclinai/an, inclination.

Though mort of the thick woods are grubbed

primary qualities it depends on.

Inco'g. ad-v. [corrupted by mutilation from

One man's fancies are laws

Now to the baron fate incline! the field.

than

dwree aofwermg to the fun-a diameter.

the coexillcnce or incocxijknce of different
ideas ii»
the fame fubjefl, is, that there is no
difcoverable
connexion between any fecondary quality and thofe

To give a tendency or direftion to any
place or ftate.

Now falling with folt (lumb'rous weight, IncHnei

Millon.

:

Another more incurable part of ignorance, which
more remote from a certain knowledge of

fcis us

The timely dew of fleep,

Iticlinable now grown lo touch or tafte.

together;

An unufual

word.

'^\"^^"^''*m more upon our parts.

I.

\in vaA caexiftence.]

non-aflbciation of exiftence.

Ronut.

He feems Indifferent;

Deli re,

the laft; but if the crull was always gradually
Bearer and nearer to falling, that plainly evinces
that
it bad not endured eicroally.
htitiley.

Incapable of concretion.

Incline to it, or no ?

-v.

Holder.

The quality of not exifting

'

Ed-

Hale.

adj. [inmiicoagulable.]

Incoexi'stence. n.f

To be favourably difpofed to ; to feel
deCre beginning.

Tg Incli'ne,

until the time of

made within the mouth, from'

manner and degice of articulating.

Incoa'culable.

unto death, and her paths
Pro-v.\\.i%.

rheir hearts '«/'«<//• follow

it

the throat to the lips inclufively; and is
differenced
partly by the organs ufed in it, and
partly by the

lioth his majetfy

tfpy in the whole fcripture nothing whiih might
breed a probable opinion, that divine authority was
the fame way inelinable.
Hooker.

they had before; that is,

Lat. inclin^r.

Hither my leet unbidden find their way.

A marvel it ^»eTr, if a man of capacity could

Ft inclinatio, Lat.
I. Tendency towards any point

All articulation

My heart inclinei. Hill hither turn my eyes
2.

People are not always intllnahle to the beft.

Solicited her longing eye.

growth ol the common law,
ward I. inciujivily.

verticity.

Still lo this place

*

with to.

inclineib

Swift.

thing mentioned reckoned into the
account.
See Inclusive.
Thus much (hall lervc for the feveral periods or

To bend; to lean; to tend toward any
Her h»ufc

HavitTg a propcnfion of will; favourably difpofed ; willing; tending by dif-

.

.V. n. [tnclino,

fearch where ev'ry virtue dwells.

Inclu'sively. ffd^x... [iwminclifl-ve.] Ihe

part : with to or tmuardi.

To guard the wixtchedlrom th' iitc/rmtailky. Pofe.
IncLi'naBLE. adj. [inclinabilis, Lat.j

:

I'll

Fr.]

ftand

Shik.

!

From courts inclujive down to cells.

Brmvn's Vulgar Eirovrt.

TVT/-.r T...,^

me to the brain

day taken into the number,

ealtern

cr-

to fcir

Comprehended in the fuin or number :
as, from Wednefday to Saturday
»W«Ji-ve;- that is, both Wednefday and Satur-

[Uom inclinatory.]

or weltcrn points, they difcover fome

Teach ut further by what means to (hun
Th' incltmeiti fcafuns, rain, ice, iuil, and fnow.

poCtion

Were red-hot fteel,

Whether they be refrigerated incllnatorily.
fomewhat enuinoiially, that is, toward the

than of men.

qua-

St'ift

z.

Obliquely ; with inclination to one fide
or the other ; with fome deviation
from
North and South.

Jkci,e'ment. adj. ^in and clemens, Latin.]
Unmerciful; unpitying; void of tender-

I.

ad'v.

ill

{incLfrf, Er.J
Inclofiiig; encircling.
O, would that the incluftve veige
Of golden metal, that mult round my brow,

1.

Errours.

Incli'natorilv,

good ^d

all

IfCLv'sivB. adj.

If that /Vfr//aa;or>r virtue be deft/oyed by a
touch

In heaven's incltmeitcyiome eaft we find :

It is

or a Tory; under which terms
lities are included.

from

And though by tempcfts of the prize bereft,

nefs ; harlh.

Inrtead of enquiring whether he be a
man of
the queftion is only whether he be a Whig

virtue,

the contrary pole, that end which before
was
elevated will then decline. Bretvn's l^ulgar

fevcrity; harftinefs; roughnefs.

Our foes we vani]ui(h'd ky our valour left.

is fuperof the gods.

a quality of inclining to one or other.

Unmercifulncfs ; cruelty

Bac^n.

1 he marvellous fable includes whatever
natural, and efpecially the machines

Incli'natory. adj. {frova incline.] Having

'Taylor.

Majefty.it
within one intire leafe.

.-,

•

or fediment by only ftooping the veffel,
which is alfo called decantation. ^incy.

plural.

are called indecencies and iiitiiiiliiict.

to comprehend.
;
This delire being recommended to her

liked her to include the fame

4.

and

iit

To comprife

2.

the little inclination which princes have_/oc painting.

r\'r

Fr.

eludes a pearl.

We have had few knowing painters, becaufe of

See UNCtv.'L.
[inciiiliii,

To inclofe; to fliut in: as. the iliell /«-

1.

In this fenfe

admits for.

it

Derive inciiementt to renew thy rage. Pope's Stal'iui.

Incivi'lity. M.J.

In their thick breaths.

Rank c)f grofs diet, (hall we be inclouded.
And forc'd to drink tlieir vapour.
Siaiel*.
7e I N c L u'd E. -v. a. [includa, Lat.]

with «n aftual non-perSouth.

Love; affeftion; regard.

fJ fKCLo'lSTEt. *. o. [in in& tlo/Jer.]
To fhut up in a cloifter.
rolNCLo'vD. "J. a. [/« and cloud.] To
darken ; to obfcure.

how fljould they fo often plead and reft in the honell
and well inclined difpofition of their minds, when

dence, to be

luClVlL. adj. [Incivil, Fr.]

I

thoughts of or i»clinatkn to the marriage.

will call cogitative

and inca.
/„,^,_

ad'v. [tnccgmliis,

Latin.]

In

a ftate o? concealment.
'Twas long ago
Dryden.

Tografp;

Since gods came down incognito.

Prior,

to inclfjfc; to furround.

InCOHe'rbNCE. \
rJ
Incohe'rency. / "•^- L'" ^"^ coherence.]

Whate'cr the ocean pales, or (ky incllpt,
I» Uiine, if ihou wilt ba't.
Hb^kef. A«t. end Cticf.

I.

7

-i

Want of coh«fionj loofencfs of material
parts,

INC

INC
Tf plaifttr he beaten into an impalpilile powJer,
when poured out it will emulate a liauor, by reafon
that the fraallnefs and Inctbercnce of the parts do both
make them eafy to be put into motion, and makes
the pores they intercept fo fmall, that they interrupt
Boyle.
_
not the unity or continuity of the mafs.

3.
•

Want of connexion J incongruity, inconfequence of argument; want of dependence of one part upon another.
I

find that laying the intermediate ideas

naked in

their due order, (hews the incohereMct of the argiiLo^ke.
znentations belter than fyllogifms.

Incobninces in matter, and fuppofilions without
handfomely together, are apt to pafi for

proofs, put

Ljcki,

ftrong reafon.

Incohe'rent. adj. [in and cahereut.]
1. Wanting coheuon; loofe; not fixed to
each other.
Had the rtrau of (tone become folid, but the matter whereof they confift continued lax and Incoherent,

they had confecjuently been as pervious as thofe of
IVoodtuarJ.
marie or gravel.

2. Inconlequential; inconfiftent;

having no

def»endance of one part upon another.
We have inftances of perception whilft we are
but how
afleep, and retain the memory of them
;

extravagant and incoherent are they, and how little
conformable to the perfeilion of a rational being

Locke.

Incohe'rently. adv. [from

incbere/tt.]

InconfiftentI)-; inconfequentially.
Thecharaftcr of Eurylochus is the imitation of
» perfon confounded with fears, fpeaking irrationally
Broome.
and incoheremly.

Incolu'mitv.

«,/.
Safety; fecurity.

\jncolumitai.,

Latin.]

A word very little in

ufe.

The parliament is necelTary to affert and preferve
the national rights of a people, with the incolumUy
HoTvet.
and welfare of a country.

Iwcombustibi'lity. ». y. [from incom1 he quality of refilling fire fo
btiftible.'\
that it cannot confumc.
The ftone in the Apennines is remarkable for its
(hining (juality, and the amianthus for its incombufii-

Ra'/•

iiiity.

IncoMBu'stible.

aJJ.

»a and combiijtible.']

[i/icom huftible,

Vr

Not to be confuraed

by fire.
It agrees

in

this

common

quality afcribed unto

both, of being incombuJIibU, and not confumable by

nenfkrable quantities, in the

I.vcoMBu'sTtBi.ENESS. »./. [from iticombuftible.'] The quality of not being wafted
by fire.
I'ncome. «./. [;>/ and fOOT^.] Revenue;
produce of any thing.
Thou who repined at the

plenty of thy neigh-

bour, and the greatnefs of \\\s incomes, confiJer what
are frequently the difinal confeijuenccs of all this.
Sauih.

No fields afJbrd
Bryden.
So large an income to the village lord.
St. Caul has fcarce any lands belonging lo it,
and little or no income but what arifes tr^m its
trade: the great fupportof this little itite is

its linen

Addlfon on Italy.
manufaaure.
NotwithBanding the large ircomrs annexed to Ibme
few of her preferments,
whole little lo fubCft on.

this

church haih

in the

compared by any common meafure.
Incomme'nsur ABLE. adj. [Ffench, from
Not
in, can, and menfurabilis, Latin.]
to be reduced to anv meafure commr>n to
both ; not to be tneafuted together, fuch
as that the proportion of one to the other
can behold.

divifibility of

;

not to bfl-toliK'

Neither <lid he treat them with thefe peCuliantiet
of favour in the extrajfdinary dilcovems of the
gofpcl only, but alfo of thofe inconunsenicaiU left-

lations of the divine lore, in refeteuce to their own
Incomme'nsur ATE. ad/, [in, eon, and
Saieti.
perlbnal interell in it.
menjura, Lat.] Not admitting one comadv. [from incamInco.mmu'nicably.
mon meafure.

In a manner not to be-im-

municable.]

The diagonal line and tide of a quadrate, which,
to

our apprchenfion, are incommenj'uiale, are ,yet
commenfurable to the infinite comprehenfion of the

parted or communicated.

Mare.
divine intcllea.
As all other meafures of time are reduciblc'to
thefc three ; fo we labour to reduce thefe three,

fcnt ot divines, as infonununicably

To annihilate is both in reafon, and by the ^-

the etfe£t of \
power divine, and above natuie, as is creation itlelf.
HakeVfiU on yrovidcBce.
Incommu'nICativg. adj. [in and comr

though ftriflly of themfelves incommenfurale to one
another, for civil ufe, roeafuring the greater by the
Holder on 'time.
lefs. •
If the year

comprehend days, it

greater fpace of time
lefs,

is

munica.'ing.J Ha\*ing no intgrcourfc with
each other.

but as any

may be faid to comprehend a

lefs fpace be incommenjurale to

though the

To be inconvenien

t

prefervcd from that confufion that would

was by fcirral incurs
municating hands, or by provincial cliablifhmeiits.
Hate's Covimin La.iv,
enfuc, if

To INCO'MMODATE. 7 t. a. [incommode,
Latin; incomTi INCOMMODE.
J
moder, Fr. ]

The judgttVcntS'ana adminidrations of common

.

juilice are

the

Holder on lime.

greater.

tl»e admmith'ation

Incompa'ct,
Xodj. [in and comfaHed.]
Not joined; not coIncompa'c.trd. J

to ; to

hinder or embarrafs without very great

hering.

injury.

Sa'.t,

A gnat, planted upon the horn of a bull, begged
the bull's pardon; but rather iaiXi incor.-.mode ye,
L'EJlrange.
fays he, I'll remove.
•Although they fomelimes moleft and incommode

'

'•'

'

'

fay they,

is

the bafis of folidity

manency in compound

bodies, without

and per-

which tlie

other four elements might be varioully blended, but

wou'd remain incompAFUd.
I

the inhabitants, yet the agent, whereby both the
one and the other \i effeiScd, is of that indifpenfible
necdiity to the earth and to mankind, that they
fyoodward.
couldjiot I'ubfiil without it.

Bt>yle.

NCo'm PARABLE, adj. [incomparable, Fr. /«
Excellent above com,s.i\d comparable. ]
pare

;

excellent beyond all competition.

My heart would not fufi'cr me to omit any occa.

.

whereby i might make the incmnparabie
Pamela fee huw much extraordinary devotion I bore

iNCoMMo'i^ioius, adj. [incommodtis, Latin.]
Inconvenient; vexatious without great

fion,

Sidnt^

to her fervice.

mifchief.
Things of general benefit, for in tliis world what is
fo perfe(ft that no inconvenience doth ever follow it?
may by fome accident be incommodious to a few.
.

A moft incomparable man, breath'd as it were

,

To an untirjble and contiiiuate goodnel's.
Was cried incomparable, and

Sbakefp. Henry VIII.
aijument of your incomparable bauty, 1 might turn lo one which would
Dryden.
equally opprefs me wiih iib greatnefs.
It

[from incommo-

ad<v.

Inconveniently not at eafe.
Incommo'diousneSs." K.yl [from incomInconvenience.
modious.']
dious.']

'

». /.

[incommcditi, Fr.

iticommrjditas ,

Layn.^

Inconvenience

Declare your opinion, what iKCcmmodity you have
conceived to he in the common law, which 1 would
have thought moft free from all fuch didikeSfenfer's Slate of Ireland.
If iron can be incorporated with liint or ftone,
without over great charge, or other incommodily,

make

the compound ftuff pro-

ionfidering the region and the winds, one
might fo call the rooms, which IhaTJ moll need Sre,
that he Ihould little fear the incommodily of fmoak.
ly'oltun's Arcljilellure.

By

Incommunicabi'lity. «. /. [from /»-'
The quality of not being
communicable.]
impartible.

Incommu'nicable. ndj.

[incommttnicable

Not impartii)le; not to
common right, property,

be made the
or quality of

undergo any

They tsinnot a(k more than I can give, may I
to

my confcience.

lefs

myfelf the incommunicable jewel of

^'"g Charles.

Light without darknefs is the incommunicable
claim of him that dwells in light inaccellible.
Glanville.
It was agreed on both (ides, that there was one
fupreme excellency, which was i/icymmunicable to
Siillingjlcei,
any creature.

to

evil,

fecure himfcif but

from

A

Excellently; to the higheft degree.

2.

low phrafe.
the heads of Antoninus Pius, the
and Marcus Aurelius, all incomparably
Addifon on Italy.
well cut.
Incomp a'ssionate.o;^'. [in zwd compajjion'I'htre are

FauiVinas,

ate.]

Void of pity; void of tendernefs.

Incomp atibi'lity,

[properly inLatin.]
Inconfillency of one thing with another.
competibility,

II.

f,

in and competo,

He overcame that natcral incompailbiliiy, which
hath been noted between the vulgar and the fovereiga
Wolton.
favour.
The reafon of the ftrefs relh not upon the inanothCT,
of
one
inlmitude
above
excels
ol
comfeiibilitj
exienfion; but the mrontte'i-

hilily of any multitude to be infinite.

Incompa'tible.

[inCi.mpatible,

rather incompetible, as it is
written ; in and competo, Lat.]

more than one.
but refcive

'

the probability oi an evil imomparably greater.
South.

either in intenfion or

Fr. in and communicable]
I.

.4

,

the wifeft man that tV«r the Kiench church did
Hooker.
enjoy, fince the hour it enjoyed him.
Sell-prefcivation will oblige a man voluntarily lo

Bacon.

fitable.

tliis

A founder it harf, whom 1 think ineani^araity

trouble.

the chcapncfs doth

could leave

tion.

difordert,

IncoMMo'diTY.

1

In c o'm p a r a b l y. ad-v. [from incomparable. ]
without competi\i Beyond comparifon ;

;

and the incommodioufnefs of
external naiuie arc inconfillent with happinefs.
Burnet.
Difeafes,

Shak,

th' enfuing night

Made it a fool and beggar.

without frequent explanations and incommodious inLocke.
tarruptions.

Incommo'diously.

Siakrfp.

Her words do (hew her wit incotnparatle.
Now this ma(k

'

Hooker.
Men's intentions in fpeaking are to be underftood,

Alterbury.

IwcoMMENSuRABi'LiTr.w./. [from/VcwmenJurableJl The ftate of one thing with
refpeift to another, when they cannot be

infinite

Not to be expreflcd

2.

matter, and eternal duration, will 4ead us to fee the
Ifaili.
weakncfs of our nature.

mikim.

6re.

NC

I

Our difputations about vacuum t/t fpace, \ncom-

'

i.

Hale.

French;
fometimes

with fomething elfe; fuch
cannot fubfift or cannot be poffefted
together with fomething elfe : it is folInconfiftent

as

lowed by evjith.

.

.

.

,

Fortune and love have ever been fo incoMpaliile,
that it is no wonJer, rnadam, if, having had fo
much of the one for you, 1 haye'cver found fo litrte
of the other for mj (t\i,

i'uc'l.

May

I

NC

I-'N

May Bol the outward eipreflioni of love in many
Humi^cnd.

We know moie colours which have a trjenJftip
with each other, and thofe whicli are mcomfati-h,
by milting together thofe colours of which we would
DryJen.
make trial.
Senfe I have proved to be Ucimfatihlt with mere
bodies, even thofe of the molt compound and ela-

Though the repugnancy of infinitude be equally
incompetible to continued or fucceffive morion, and
depends upon the rxcomfcJiiiUly of the very nature
of things fucccrtive ot extenfive vvith infinitude, yet
that incrjmMjJihiliiy is more confficuous in difcretc
quantity, that arifeth from individuals already aflually

Bint.

borate textures.

_

Z, It is fometimcs with ie.

The repugnancy of infinitude ir equally mccmpa-

rii/f fd continued or fucceflive

molioii, and depends

upon the impofiibility of things fuccelftre with infif^;'''mtode.
Incompa'tiblv. adv. [for incompttihly,

iNCOf.lPo'sSlBLE. adj [^in,con,&nAfnJf:ble.]
Not poffible togi;rfier nor poffible but by
;

the negation of fomething elfe.

from

».

incompetent. \

/ [incompetfnce, Fr.
Inability ;

cjesto difcem fome motions of natural bodies in.
hnyie.
comparably flower than thcfe.
Isco'mpetent. adj. \in and competent.]

tionate.

not adequate ; not proporIn the civil law it denotes fome

defeft of right to do any thing.
Richard HI had a refolution, out of hatred to his
brethren, to difable their iflues, upon falfe and in.
lomfrmt pretexts, the one of atuinder, the other ot

Bacim.

Every fpeck does not blind a man, nor does everjintirmitr make one unabie to difcem, or incomfrttm
to reprove, the grofler faults of others.

Govtrimtnl of the Tongue.

Not

1

to be

An equal atlraAion on all lidei of all matter, is
and by this means
all the motion in the univeife mull proceed from
catemal impulfe alone, which is an ina-mprtent caufe
HeniUy.
for the foimation of a world.
I » c o' M P E T I N T I. Y adv. [ froffl iiicompeltnt.]

Mill'jn.
Spares incumprthtrjibtt.
One thing more is inc^^mpreljerjible in this matter.
Locki
Th« laws of vegetation and propagalioit are the
arbitrary pl.-afurc of God, and may vary in manners
Bentlry.
incompretiffjihlt to our imaginations.

2.

Not to be contained. Not now ufed.
Prefence every where is the fequel of an infinite
and incomfrtberfihie fubllance ; for what can be
e«ry where, but that which can no where be comHooker.
piehended ?

Ikcomple'te. adj. [imiad complfie.^ Not
perfect ; not finifhed.
It pleafclh him in mercy to account himfelf i/n-cmHo-Atr.
fUtt and maimed without us.
In initmpitir ideas we are apt lo impofe ou ouxwhere
efpecially
wrangle
with
others,
felvcs, and
L~cie.
they have particular and familiar names.

Incomplbteness. »,/. [from incomplete.]
tmflnifhed Rate.

and

conclufive^']

Inconc j-O'siVELY. ad-v, [from

h^t/fri.

htconelu-

Without any fuch evidence as de-

ffve.]

termines the undcrftanding.

.

'

I.vcoscLu'oivEt^ESS. n.f. [JLiOCa. ineoHctji•
five.] Want of rational cogency.
•

,

A man, unlkilful in fyllogifm, at firft hearing,
could perceive the weakneis and incontlfi/ivtnffs of a
long, artilicial, and p!;iulible difcourfe, wherevvith'

fomi others,

better IkiUcd in fyllogifm, have been
Liick't.

miflcd.

\°dj,. \_ina.nAconcii^.] UriInconco'ct.
ripened; inimatart j;
Inconco'cted. J
'

not fully digt;fted.

"

the body, to be converted and altered, is
tooftrong for the clhcicnt that (hould convert it, it it.
all that while crude and inconcoli ; and the procefs

While

Bar^n,
called crudity and inconcodtion.
underltand, remember, and reafon better in my
riper years, than when 1 was a child, and had ir\y

is to be
I

organical parts lefs digefted and inconioCled.

Hale. ,

Inconcoction. ;:. /. [from inconcacf:]'
The ftate of being indigelled unriptnefsj
i

prehenfible.] in a manner not to be con-

immattirity.

ceived.

The middle aAion, which produceth fuch imper-

We cannot but be alTured that the Cod, of whom

feft bodies, is fitly called inquination,or inconcoHion^

and from whom are all things, is incemfrebm/ibly

which is a kind of putrefaction. Bacon's Nat. Hift.
While the body, to be convened and alteied, is too

Lockr.

infinite.

Incompressible, adj. [incompreffible,
in and comprcffMe.^

ftrong for the efficient that (hould convert ir, it is all
that while crude and inconcoO ; and the procefs is
Bacon.
to be called crudity and inconco^ion.

Fr.

Not capable of being

comprefled into lefs fpace.
Hardncfs is the reafon why water is incomfrejpble,
Cheyne
when the air lodged in it is exhaiiflcd.
Incompressibi'litv. n.f. [from iucomprejjible.] Incapacity to be fqueezed into

Inco'.vdite. adj. \inconditus, Latin. j Irregular; rude; unpolifhedi

Now fpottive youth
Carol incondite rhymes with fuiting noter*
And quaver inharmonious.

Philips,

Inconui'tional. adj, [ w and conditional,]
Incoscur ring, adj, [/« ami concur.] Not
Without exception without limitation ;
lefs

room.

;

The inctniplticn*Ji of our ferapliitk lover's happinefs, in his frtiition^, protecdi pot from their want of
li-^yic.
fatisfaaorinefs but ol an intire pofleflion.

iNcoMPLrxNCE. »./. [m and compliance]
I. Untra6tibknefs ; imprailicablencfs; contradictious tetnper.
Self-CTiKeii iir^dum pAvillinefs and iHftmfliaicf
9I humour io things Uwiul aiul indiiktciM. 7»'^r/<.ir.

Rcfufal of compliance.
between the word

i:iconveniencle> that can attend our i/tcctnt.iai.cr with

m«ni and (he eternal difplcafure ot an ofrrndtrd Cod.
Rt.giri.

ItftowPu'jiFO. ad/, [m 3i\A comp<iJed,\ \i\iNot
turbed ; difcompofcd ; difordcrcd.

much u(«d.
S'^meviliji inc-mfofrJ they are in their irimmiiig,

acd eairsordmaTy tet.dcr of theif young ones. Hi.\^ti

Ihc oMP0«SI rri'tn V. »./. [from incr)?nfir>j/i.
kit.] Qiiallty of being not poliiblc but

Vet. k.

\in

adj.

Not enforcing any deterrain,ition of tlie

God is

Incomprshensiblv. adv. [from itrcom-

.

Unfuitably ; unduly.

AyUffe's Pareigetf.

Bammond.
Stars that fefm to roll

it would be impofiible for us to believe
incomprchenfible.

jull equal to no altraflion at all ;

vaft difproportion

,

imonceftihie how any fuch man, thlt hitK
Rood the ihock of an eternal duration without corHale.
iniptiotr, fliould after be corrupted.
It is

ra1nd ; not exhibiting cogent evidence.

His precepts tend to the iirproving and perfefling
the mod valuable part of us, and annexing incemfrelitnfiblt rewards as an eternal weight of glory.

of,

Canfidar the

not ufed.

underfiood.

the moll I ni-c«*rtc«r judges of facrcd things.

Z.

;

conceived ; not to be fully

Unconceivcablenefs.
cmprehenfihle.]
1 might argue from Cod's incomprthrnfihlcmf:
if w^ could believe nothing but what we have ideas

;

Inconce'ptible. adj. [in and c!meepfible\
coHcepius, Lat.] Not to be conceived incomprchenfible ; inconceivable. A word

IffcONCLtJSlVP.

ble, Fr. /'« and comprthtnjthle.]

Incomprehe'nsibleness. n.f. [from /«-

for the

Impcrfeftion

the endurance of thofe leffer
troubles, to fecure himfelf iTom a condition inconSouth.
ceivably more miferable ?

falfe, various, contrarient, fingle, incondudcnt.

uftation which 1 can enter againft the pt»fent agp,
Drjdtn.
as ircstrtpttm or corrupt judges.
Laymen, with equal advantages of parts, arc not

thank you

rational couffe to preferve

who refufes

iNCOMPurHEKSlBLE. adj. {incompHhenfi-

commillion you have given
me : how I have acquitted royfelf ol it mull be lelt
to the opinion of tlie world, in fpite of any proI

Does that m.in take a
himfolf,

undcrftanding.

;

illc|rtimation.

[from inconcelv

ad-v.

In a mwiner beyond comprehcnfion 5 to a degree beyond human coraprehenfion.
able.]

;

want of

adequate ability or qualification.
Our not being able to difcem the motion of a fliaiow on a dial-plate, or that of ihe index upon a clock,
ought to make us feofible of the imomprtrncy a\ our

Not fuitablc

Inconce'ivaslt.

InComprehensibi'lity. n.f. [incompre- Incorci.ui>ent. adj. \in and concluJens,
l}f7jJibilitc,Yr. from incoKprehenJible.] UnLat.] Inferring no cottfequence.
fuperiority to human
conceJveablenefs
The depofitions of witncfl'es themfclves, as being

itomimcompatihle.\ Inconfiftentiy.

iKCo'mrsTENCY.

HoU't OriginoJ Mankind.

dillinguilhed.

N C

1

by the negation or deftruftion of- fomethlng ; inconfiftency with fomething.
The manifold in^mfrJf:hiUtU: and lubricities of
matter cannot have the fame litnclfes in any modi^'>"tication.

good Chriftiansbc greater to feme other objcfl than
fiiiccrity of
lo God f Or is this incomfelibU wiib ihc
ihe love of Gad i

C

concurring.

without (lipulation.

They derive effWls not only from incorrrurring
caufes, but-thing^ devoid of all efficiency.

iNCOifCEALABi. e1

Not to be hid

;

adj.

[in

and

From th.1i which is but trua in a qualified fenfct
an inconjiiional and abfoluie verity is inferred.

Br(nvn.

conceal.]

not to \\e kept fecret.

Tht inftjmetjiabU\mpeTU(\'ionk of 04irfelvcs will

Broun.

Incomdi'tionate. adj. [in and condition.^
Not limited not relltamed by any con;

hourS prompt us our comiptujn, and loudly tell u;
Btoivn.
wc arc fous of earth.

Inco!»c t'lVABtE.

adj,

[incMiCfifaile,

cterttal,

conceivable.]

Such ate- Cliriif r promifes, ^n'me inconcerifaU
prnmifes; jblifsto be enjoyed lo all e;erniiy, and
that by way of return fer a weak obedience ol fome
•

yean.

timmmbnd.

inconetlvibie to mc, that a fpirilual fubIjickc.
(latKE Uiould rcprefeut ao extended figure.
flow two eihets can be ditfufcd through all fpice,
confequence
the
other,
by
and
one cjl^vhith afts upon
It

is

roftcd updn, without retarding, Hiattering, ditand coBfoaodiog one another's uiotioiji^, i<
Htv/ttn'iOpuiki
inuiuiivtii;
is

petfing,

Abfolute.

They alcribc to God,

Fr.

Incomprchenfible;
in
not tt> be conceived by the mind.
aiid

ditions.

in relation to every mail, ail

unchangeable, and inconditionatc degree of

election or reprobation.
I

Btiyit.

N c o » F o'r M I T Y . ». /.

[»'» altd Conformity,

j

Incompliance with tlie practice of others.

We have thought their opinion to be, that utter
i«f &»/lrM;r>' -with the church of Rome was not an
extiemity wliereunto we Iboti'.d be dr.iwn for a time,
but the very mediocrity itlclf, wherein they meant

we Oiould ever continue.

Inconfu'sion.
Diftindncfs.

The

M

Hoiko''.

[/«

and

confu/ioH.\

Not ufed.

caule oi the

imor'fu/ion

6

n. f.

conlulion in founds, and the

m fpeciei vilihic, i&, lot that the fight
workets

'

INC

INC
on

and ircuaie lines, mull oeeils cncountcc and dilturb

,

Nnvltn.

II wc were under any rral fear of the papilb, it
would be hard to think us lb Itupid not to be equally
apprcbenfivc with others, lince wc are likely to bi
but we look upon liicm to be
tlic greateil (utTcrrrs
altogether as incotipJirabU as tiic women and thil-

lNco'>fCRUENCE. ft./. [/» nnd cotigruexce.^
Unfuitablcnefa want of adaptation.
;

Humidity is but relative, and depend&,upan the
eongtuity or irtforgruf/tcf o\ the component particles
of the liquor to the pores ot the bodies it touches.

Incinhjru'fty.
MittaSility of temper, i\-A iBc'-.fifJIt^iy Viiib WX^

3.

.

|

fclv.i,

I

;

.

I

Unilcadinefs ; changeablcuefs.
I N c o N s 1 's T e K T . aJj. [ in and ccnjljUitt . ]
not fuitable; incongnj|l. Incompatible;
ous.: folloNsfd b\- 'cOiVi^'.
Kindipg T)o kiiid of compliance^ but
'

!

2. Itjconfiftency ; inconfequence ;

abfurdi-

To avoid abfurdilies and incongrnhit!, is the fame
iia'w eftablithed for both arts; the painter U not to
paint a cl*"»ud at the bottom of a piiiurc,nor the poet
to place what is proper to the end in the beginning

fplcndor of heavenly bodies,
pfalmirtraife up ourlieatii.

'

J>ifcigieeiTieRt

3.

Inconsi'derate. adj.

DryAii.

oi a pocr.i.

1.

She, whom after what form tjc'er we fee,
1« difcoid and luii'l i>:ta/lgruilj ;
Doxnc
She, file is dcjd, Ihe's dead.
Inco'ncruous. adj. [incongra, Fr. /'« and

pro-

Compofitions of this narure, when thus relliained,
wifdom and virtue are far from being /v.
ciiitJiJicKt 'U.'Uh poliieocli, and good hui.iour.

Addipn'i Freeboidtr.
1. Contrary, fo as that one infers the nega•'.'
tion or defhuition of iheorher.

Fr. iu1

fliarp

mJncniUiJltnt -wtib

lliew tliai

us with tlie lioly
R.'.y o>: tit CrciiUi

^em/ideriifus, Latin.]

of parts; want of fym-

metry.

.

confcience,. jultice, or religion, the conference brok»
Cliirend'^n.
Otf.

let

\Jiico>.f,derc,

dtmandj,

teft.iiious agaiall the

the conlidciation of a future happinefs is the
Tiiioi/in.
mcft powerful motive.
From the conliJeration of our own fmallm-s .iMd
iiumfderaliltnej's, in rcfped of the greatncfs and

lite,

ty ; impropriety.

bundle of

a

.\.

civjiierubkrtcfs of this (hort dyins life, in comparifoil
of that eternal Hate which remaint for us in another

,

religTon a.id learninj, Wh.u

Sv!ft,

Rog.,,.

In CONS i'dER ABLE NESS «.^ ^ftora inci/uUnfuitablenefsof one thing to another.
':
Jiderahk.\ Small importance, m
The fathers nuke ufe of this acknowledgment of
To tliofe who are thoroughly convir.ccd of the inthe /nfcw^rtfiry of images to the Deitv, from thence
Siil/ingjfeft.

,

incCnJiflcnciii and contraditlions would appear at lall.

I

to prove the iHcntgruify of the wotDiip of them.

,.,

•

,MJ!/Sh.
•
..„
;
a man'wSuli regiftsr a}) l)i» 'opinions ;:poo. love

poliiicEs,

:

Let no fin appear fmalt or hcofJiJerailt ^y which
an almighty God is of&odcd, and etunal faivati
endangered.

the creitcll weakn'cfs ofhuman iiatitfe.

is
.

ft'

Sti'i/t.

dien.

IttcoftGRv'fVY.n./. [j*«»jw//, Fr. from
1.

Abfurdity iri arguineiit or nrifratlotj ; «(;»•
guiai;iit or narrative, where one p.irt-de»
ftroys the other; felf-contradietion.

2.

'.

dtrMif

Bacon.

the one tlie o<hcr.

3i'4t^c

(JiK»s3e<jU5te!y without leaving any poret, tnJ 1)y
confcfuence is much denfcr than quici.lilvcr or gold f
And may notiti reliiUnce be fo fnuUasto be in ti'Ji-

fce n(» coinworlcf til in rigtit lines >n* f" tlint
cidence in the eye; but founili that move in oblique

.

j

Carelefs; thoughtlefs; negligent -inattentive
inadyfertent: ufed both of n>cn

The idea of an inS'iite Ipaic or duration 5s tery
obfcure andcan&ifcd^bccaule it is tnadc.upiof twj
J^tke,
pans very dili'ercnt, itnoti/«!i'y/tf«;.

;

and thnigs.
When thy incoitfiitralt hand
Flings ope thiscafemciii » iih my trembling name,

Abfurd; having p^^J^ of which one dp-

3.

ftroys the other.
j

Tlieli thiiili this name alive, and that tliiiu thus

(cngruous.}

l4i it oHend'll

Unfuitable ; not fitting'.

1.

li youiameui it,.

Wifer heathens condemned the worfhip of God as
iKc ,rt7ruju3 i^ a divine nature^ and a diL}i3ragement
HiiUiigJitit.
to the deity.

2. InconCtknt abfurd.
lm:o'NCRi.'ousLY. iiJ'u. [Uonx hicengruoui,^

Iinprcpi:rJy ; unfitly.
[;'« and
connexJ]
Without any connexion or dcpendance.

IwcoNNt'xtDLY. aJv.

fubjta.
He who laid down his life for the redemption of
•

Little ufed.
Others afcribed hereto, aj » caufe, what perh:ips
Bi oil-ii

ble.\
evil :

Not ofed.
thefe common people,

and

folittle leehnghaye they of God, or ilicirown foul's
.s>/»y;v.
jood.

iNCONSxquENCE. «. /. \inccKfcijuence, Fr.
intatifeqninitn,

Lafin.J

were under ilie hrll Tcllament, cannot be (0 incorifidei.ilc o/oui frailtips.
Decay of Piety.

InCONSi'dER ATELY. adl\

[frOin UHOIlji-

Negligcatly >

thouglulefbly;

i-'craie.]

inattentively.

Lat.] Without juft conclufion; without
rfgiilar inference.
illation
'I'he ground heaflumes is unfounJ, and his
lUknudl.
ftpm thtnie deduced inconjiqvinl.
Men tell not in fa'.fe apptehcnfions without abfiiid
founJaand irKox/fjiKKl deduflions fiom fallacious
ercrtingcon.
tion3, and anifapprehcnded mediums,
piemifcs.
dulioiis no way iulctrible from their

Hiawn'i f^ulgar Errours.

Inconsi'deraBLE. adj. [i/t 3n^\ ee>i/idatji/e.] Unworthy of notice ; uninipoftaat
mean of little value.

k

:.

.,

pi.rfuit.

J.)fcph
tion,

,

and endeatoured viith

all

his art to let out l)ie

.1.

mutability of temper. or affertion.

derate.]

ih&^iarent/
S. Gregory reckons untleanncfs to be
of blindneI>'of mind, inconjidtratiun, precipitancy
or giddinefs in aiftions, and felf-love.

[iv

-T.-.^hr.

and coufji.] Not

Not ufed.

The raoll inceifiJtrabk of creatures may at fome

Inconsi'&tence.
I.

Such oppofition
infers

^

r l(,;^i„cohfiP«t.'\
s.%

For all the people's hate, the princefs*" curfcs.

And his foil's rage» or the old king's inoinjiancy.
Dcnbam.
Irrefolution on the fchemes of life which oiler to
our choice and incor'JI.mcy In purfuiiig them, .-ire

^at one prbpofition

the negation of the other; fuch

contrariety that Iwth cannot.bctpgeiher,
Out which
'I'herc is a periia mtui:fqleniy iiitocen
-SwA.
which is of free gUu,.
'a of debt, wl that

Addijon.

the jreaiell caul'es of all our unhapptneCs.

liiMufideralian,^

FrcncK, in and canjideratiou.^ ,Want of
thought ; inattention ; inadvertence

Inconsi'stinc.

'

have fullered more for their fakes, more thix

the villainous iriconjiancy of man is able to bear.
Sbakefpt.ire.
Be made the m.irk

TithtJoK.

ftiity ani iacsi'Jdei;jlcnrjs.

Inconsidera'eion. u.f.

aJi.

I

thoiightleffnefs

ity-inianjijling
tural^ and ihc irvniiers fali'e i' thai
with the cUatadci^ of .iaankiiul. Drydtn's Dujref.

the greaiel't.

I
-i','-.
cau/faMf, Vr. irom i>u-o»Ja//t.]
UnlleaiUnefi ; war>t of lleady adherence;,

<

her llic private order he had Iclt behind. ,4/<i///o'.'.

negligence ; want of thought ; inadvertence; inattention.
isfuch
If men do know and believe that there
towards
a being as GcJ, not to demean ourfelves
him. as becomes our relation to, him> is great -l^u-

Btyle.

•

bles.

Inco'.n'sta no y. n. ft \iiumjiantiaf Lat. in-

iKCONSIDtRATENESS. n. /. [Uom illCOIlJtCareleflhefs;

no? perceptible- by' the

when an excellent experimenter had taken pains.

A"-'-''-

was delighted with Mariamns's convcrU-

•

Fuides^i Sermons.

in accuiatcly filling up a lube of mercury, wc tound
th.it yet there remained llore of incinf^icuoux bub-

(is'iting atid

confilkiit i i^cor)i'patlble witli.
all unnaTlfe ^i^iliius ii#>l adians of a farce arc

L'EJlrunge.
taken
tailing my eye» upon the ants, continually
with
up with a thoufanJ cares, very inmnJldtrMt
them
refpca to u?, but of the grcateft importance tor
curiofuy. MA\[:
ihey appeared to me worihy of my
May not planets and coinets perform their moin ihis
retiihtiwe,
tions more' tieely. and with lefs
Ull*»ll
ethereal mcdiuia than in anj dttid, wliwb

Indifcernible;

H^^'

.

and know notliing.

time or other come to revenge itfdf upon

^.

I.mc«'nson A K c Y. 71. f. \^i}i zad cmijonaticj .^
Difagreement with itfclf.
Inconspicuous, adj. [/// and cotifpicuou! ,'\

iranfported with juft wrath, .jVs»precipitating the charge,- l-eicre his wliolp numbers came up, wus flain in the
'

;

i wivin i«coi;/UiraiLk\low,

,,.

dering thcmfelves iriaftjf/iah'e.

Tlic king,

fUiitiKly

told
;

and runs on with fliewing the iiic-jHft'iurna oi it,
as iliough hcdidia earnell believe it wvie an impertiHaUhigf^tl.
nent anfweir.
IkCo'nseqjjent. adj. [in and ccnequens,

'

tranfgrelfions which

excefs of Herod's palliun for her but when he Hill
found her cold and incredulous, he ir:i:t,nfidcra(,ih

Inconclufivcnefs

wantofjiift inference.
Tlii» he bcftows the name of m.iiiyf.irjcics upon

.

They take plealure in an obilin.ite grief in ren-

:

.

coufciona-

Void of the fenfe of good and
without influence of confcience.

So inmnfcUnahlt are

,

Dmbam'i Sjfcy. IsC(>'NSoi-ABLB.,'<M^*i \iMi)Hfdalh y Yi. in
It is a very uuliappy token of our corruption, ihat
and «///«/-.] Not to be comforted ; focthere fliculd be any fo incwfiiieru'.t among us as to
rowful beyond fufcqnibility of comfort..
fjcrifice morality to politicks. Addifm'i Fretholdcr.
Mer women will reprefent to me iliat ihc is //:2. Wanting due regard ; with 0/" before the
AddiJ^h.
ccnj'dabhy by reafon of my unkindiicls.
hn iiicittJlditau'LitinwSi.

the

Inco'nscionabi.e. (ti(/\ [///and

tradiclion.

That which now looks like juftice, will be tlvousht
\

;

liut cafuall y or Incjnmxcily fuccceds.

o X s I 's T t s T I. y . adv. [from iiiccirJrfli-Ht ]
Abfiirdly ; incoiignioully ; with feif-coii-

JMc

Donne.

my genius.

2.

Diverfity; diflimilirude.
As much inctujl-incy and confufion

is

there in

their mixtures or combmatioiis; ior.it is rare to tind

iVoadliiayd.

ji,y of tlicm puie and unmixt,

INCO'NSTANT. adj. [htconjiant.it.inconjlnns, Latin.]
Not firm in refoltltion; not
affcclion ; various

ing perfeverance

:

_

of inclination ; \yan?of pcrfons.

flc islo luiuriilly <«iwy/«/rr,^tha«

I

foul finds not fome way to kill the body.

.Changeable;

•

-

fteady in

mutable;

marvel hisi
Sidniy.

viuigble.;

.ivf

things.

O Isvear net by the moon, th' incottftant moon,
Thatmonihlychan|f5 in her circleAorb, ;
,

Left tliai thy lave p rjvs likcwife YariaWe.
-'',
SbtthJliatr,
.

jNCONftj'MABLE.

I

IN C;
Ixcossu'm'able.

adj.

and

Not to be wafted.

."

.

i

Lnconve'.nien'CE. \
I scQii V E .V i'e xcy.
J

I.vcoksu'mptirle. oftj. [w :mAconfump-

Thev

'•

BJomciit, and

[from inantrfia-

uncontrovertibly.

aJj.

;

equally litdc inton^igboui beads.

,

Ikco'xtinexcv. (

in

Inability to reftrain
thaftity'.

and

I

The cojnirance of her hemtHiency
li this; (he baih bought the name of whore tjius
de.rly.

This is my deicnce;
myfclf,

1 pleaj'd

i

Lai. /»

Untharte; indulging unlawful pica fu re.
In thefe degrees have they made a pair of fta.rs lo
they will climb iiiContintiit, or elfc

rairriai;*, which

HbahfLtarr.

Men Ihall be lovers of their own felvei, (jlle att.

j Tim, \\\.

ihunning delay ; immediate.

This

i.

is

fo loudly did lament;
z^Tnz inet^ntineni.
Vali-y Q.

I.

I.

Unchaftcly; without tcfiraini of the ap-

O N V I'.N- 1 1 B I. E adj. [in and convinalilt.
Not to 1)8 convinced; not capable of

Iinmediatcly ;

at

An

or.ce.

ol.folme.

j/.//Ar.
((.ji, ii.ji

^,

*in Mt incatllKmr/j luhttul uJt(etv:s to ru.r nelih^
•"•"•
.
r^er.nti'lenlly t Irfl

Midrid. ard have been d<«rd

asd «).*«! ihioujh fcveral naiK>t».

Artulhact and I'cpt.
adj. [,„ ini\ Co„t,„.

,

ItrCOMTROVh'llTtBLE.
•vtrttUe.]

I !.

put -d.
CO :t T RO V
vtrlihte.]

Indifputabic;

1

'f.

Tj B

I

V

.

nut to bt dif-

ad-u. [from iHcoKiro

To a degree beyond toniio-

The

llttrew

is

Sn^nttn^nlHj

ifc,

ftimiiive

inhabitants to hrc and IVord, but 10 inrorporalttiitm
into iheir own cominunity.

;.

AM this learning is ignoble and mechanical amotg
them, and the Confutian only ellcntial and incorpu.

In

;

Timpie.
to give a material form.

Couricfy, that fcenied incorpKrat^d in his heart,
would not be perfuadtd by daiigci lo offer any offence.
««.

Sidmy.

,

The idolaters, who worflrfped their images as

and
Brotin.

obftinatcly

foJs, fuppofcd
ill,

and

fo

fome fpirit

to be

ircorporalej ihtrc.
to make togeihcr with it a pcrfon fit
to

receive woilliip.

Utillin^Jeet.

•To Inco'rporate. 1: n.
1.

To

unite

with fomethin?' clfe.

It

i«

commonly followed by luith.

.'Scotland

it

denotes

Painters colours and allies do better incorporate
tiulb oil.
if.,..
It IS not univerfally true, that
acid faltiand oils
will not incorporate or mii.glc.
Boyle,

mifchievoufly

unlucky z.%, he's an i„tony ftliovv. 'i his
feems to be ihc meaning of Sl.tdcfpeaie.
;

O' my ttoili, mofl Iwccljclls, moil iuanj vulgar

Thy foul

wit,

When it tcaies fo fmoothly ofF.
SLiktffcari
I.Nto'kl'ORAi adj. [in and corporal.']
Injm.itcrial
diftintt from matter; diftinft
from body.

In real darknelsofihebodv dwells.

Shut oirt from outward hfhl,
'1' incorporate

.

W'i.y

To cnil)o<ly

6.

certain.
2.

AJJijon's Freeh.

To work into another mafs.

ra/<- ui llitir government.

Ikconvj'.nciblv. adv. [from i-icon'vir.dble.y
Without admitting convidlion.

Inco'nv. adj. [perhaps from//; and «;/;,
to know,]
1. Unlearned; artlcfs.
This fenfe is lin-

.Siakr/p. Coriol.mi,!.

The Romans did not fubduc a country to put the

]

;

\erf>- or tiifpute.

Wjiicli you do live upon.

conviftion.

KwtW.

•

to afibciate.
;
Cafca, one incorporate
To our attempts.
.SIj..-ke/p.
J,,!!,,: CajUr,
Your moll grave belly was deliberate,

Tiiat I receive the general food at lirll,

.

injurious unto ki.owlcdge
incsiKvintibly to fide with any one.

To unite

Not rafli, like his accufcrs, and thus anfwer'd ; '^
True is it, my incorporate friends, quoth lie,

II

Itcnieieth not the v.;ii.s, but lakeih leave of i!.e
permeani pans, and accompanicili \.\v: ii.convniil'te
portion unto the liege.
Smin.

is

is

It is

>i<ir-^

It

fenfe.
The caufc of this war is no other

4.

temper for convcrfation ; unfocial.
He is a pcrfon
htcotrverJabU.
More.
Inconve'rhble. adj. \iii and ctn^erlibu.\
Not t ran fin table; incapalile of chan^'r.

petites.

3.

H.ik,r'.
incorporated with a Dujority, and
nameth burgclTes to parliament.
Curt-ur.'
.

.

fame

1 he

;

'•''-

make bj'

'

'"":^i;

t. Unfeafonably.
Ainjiwth.
Inconvk'r?abi. E. adj. [in and con^trjai c]
Incommunicative ill qualified by

'>ti black jVciw/w/t/.

.will return /<7o/////i,vr/.
Shjlrfb.
Inco'.s rjr.iNTLY. ad'v. [from i>iccnlwent:\

that be they Jews or Ccntilcs, bond or free, llie^ arc

Unfitly; incommodioufly.

I N C

i

all /«i>r/"/r«rei/iqtoOnccompaiiv, tliey all

inconnje-

j

In this fenfe they fay in StOf
the incorporate trades in uny coin-

munity.
The a'poflle affirmeth plainly of all men chr7»ian,

H'.oktr.

Inconve'nienti.y. adv. [from

me for n hat 1 do lament,
atak.k.W.

1

politick.

fame be found iHccnvtnUttr^ eipemay be other remedy againit par-

ticular inconveniencei,

MilfoH.

To form into a corporation, or body
land,

inexpedient.

ticular men the

'he far rtSftundcd noife,

To w

3.

rially when there

a meaning now obfolete.

Thr

Death and I
Arc found eternal, and incorporate both.

her public laws, although it chance that fur fome par-

and oiiii/tent.^

cufirs, incpiiintni, fierce.

tipon my knees

We are not to look thai the church fliould change

who were both nored for inaitil-

be 'f.i '.Ktiiu 7/ before rnarri jg?.

!^fexfer on IrriunJ.

Unfit;

z.

':'
'

Shalufp,

I charm you, by that great Vow
Wliicli did incorpomle and make us one.

He knows that to be iK<ortv*nie/jif which we
falfely ihmk convenient for us.
SmalriJgt.

tiitnt.

I.

'Till holy church inc^rporait two in one.
.

]

P«"plt.

The words. ^1- vrfe Di'jnam agree better with
T.ivia, whohsd the fame of chafliiy, than with
ei-

[iacmiae/is,

Fr, in

They lean to their old cultoms, though they be

thuiin'd tiaccntirjerrft

adj.

[inciiiixnieitt,

Sl>akeffiare'i Otbf'Ho.

By your leaves, you (hall not (lay alone,

more utijuH, and more incwijtnifnt for the common

Oryjrn.

^^coKTI^•E^T.

Sandyf,

Villainous thoughts, Rodcrigo, when thefe siu-'
I. ahties (o marllial the way,
hard st hand conies'tlj:
mailer and main cxercili?, liie/OTcr/xjrvi/cconclution.

Incommodious; difadvantageous.

I.

And, uij'd by (bong dcfircs, indulg'd my fenfe.

thrr oft he Juliai,

...

To conjom infeparably, as one bodyt

I.

Aiicriury.

adj.

and citi^enimi, Lat.

m^ji;

Bjt bcautri like (he fair Hefperian tree,
1,1 in with bl'ximing gold, had need the guard
*)t Jrigon-watch wicii uriiiich.uiTed eye,
To lave her bloflbni5, and defend her fruit
From the ralTi hand of bold incontinrnt-f.
Milton.

.

Ba<o!:.

I

The tilings of another world, beiiij diftant, ope-

K CO N V i'n I E N T

yon put a greater quan-

draw it to the.lcfs.

Who the welling clouds in bladders tics,

upon us: to remedy this irrcomjewe muft frequently revolve their ceriainiy,
and impodance.
Aiitrbury.'

un-

•

.

To moUily the Itubbbrn clods with rain,
And fcaiici'M dull incorporate .igain ?

rate but lainily

J

•

'

will not he recovered, except
tity t.f Slver lo

vitnty,

conutievcf.

the appetite

.

Ixikt.

enjoy fevetal advantages.

B^jylr.

»./. [iunntweutia.Lst.

To mingle different ingredients fo as
they Ihall make r>ne mafs.
A tifiecmh part of filvcr, incorporate with gold,

We arc freed from many iKcctn<e7tiif7tees^ and wc

I

feomed part of fmali tracelcts, conCfting of

Inco'NTmgNCE. J

1.

Ci>9tid.er the difproportion lictween the worl^ inecnvcfihn.ici that attend inc. mpIiaiiCC with men,
•
and fhectcrnal difplcifure of Ood.
Rcgns.

not joined to-

gether.
1 hey

French.]

is

has onre placed it >

.

and C'jnli^Hom.'\

[;«

R.llligh's Ht/lory.

-

from body.

ftinflncfs

Inco'kpo8ai.ly. adz: [from ii.corporal.]
Without mntter; immaterially.
Tc INCORPORATE. ^. a. [incorponr,

continually unlccurc even of life
rilhlfon.
_
The irrotvrnicucea! crlj age makes him incapable of corporal pleafuris.
Dry Jen.
WonKl not quicknets of fenfation be an incnivi'eitirmc !o an animal, that mull lie llill where chance

Deity; and 1 believe nobody

Not touching each other

Haldol

Incorpora'i.itv. ». /. [incorporalite, i-r.
from incarpo-a/]
Immaterialnefs ; di-

itftlf.

can avoJ ihc cogency
of it, »ho will catefully m.
'
•Km* to u.
L'.ikt.

IKeoNii'cuous.

wc fee the air illijhrcned

Man is liable to a great many inconvcKirrtciei every

'

Indifj.'iitabl)- ;

nor folid diaplionous bodies, and yet every day
:
!>!ct:rfor.ii it cannot be,
bccaufe fomctimcs it afiideth the light with ofFcntt;.
air,

plead

niiere is a place upon the top of monnt Athos
above all cliuds of raiit, or other Innrvexitrce.
• '

cuitejl.l
Kot to be difpiited ; not
admitting debate; uncontrovertible.
Ojr own bein^ firrniihcs tjs with an evident and

//f.]

\iricofrvenient,

culty.

{jiiKiitjiabk, Fr. in

Ixfo.vTE'si»ASi.r. ad-j.

:

Difadvantage ; caufe of uneafinefs; diffi-

2.

and

incfmlt'fijile proofof a

/.

Sib.7kr/.

Learned men have not refolved us whether light
be corporal or incoyfioriil
corporal they fay it cannot be, bccaufe then it would neither pierce the

againif the incoriiiemince^ not \.\\z
nnlawfinnefs of popifli apparel ; and againft the /ncon-vettier.ce, not the unlawtulncfs of ceremonies In
burial.
Hooker,

Betbre I ^ive any stnfwcr to ihil objeflion of preXrr^itilmccv(mr:}i\hh\\^^u, I «T>uld fladly fee the
'
ettia uixJoubtedlr prevei.
DighmiioJit:;

I

tt.

N e

And with ih'.i'ncorfxira/ ik do'ft hold Jlfcourfe?

French.]
inexpedlence.

Uiifitnt-fs;

1.

to, Latin.]
Not ro be fpent; not ta
1^, t^e brought to an en^ ; not to be deftroyei
..
by iire. This feems a more elegant word
I han incon/umab It.
,

IsrcoNTt'sTABLi. adj.

J

and fured text to rely upon ; and to prefene the fanw
uncorrupt, there hath been ufcd the highcfl caittion
humanity could invent,
Bronvn^s ^'d^. Err.

anfiime.']

._.By art were w^avcd napkins, fliirts, and coats,
ir^coytfumslU by fire, and wherein they bjrnt the bodiesef letnn.
Brown.

'

N C

I

\in

doiC ihou bend thiae eye on vacancy,

2.

?fWi gloomy night.

Mihci

Sometimes it has into.
hnds the mind unprepolfcifcd with any former
notions, and fo cafily gains upon the alleni, grows
up
with it, and incorpoiatci into it.
it*;*.
It

6

Mi

iNCo'RPORAfi..

I

N C

!ii c
Im.

luco'iTOHATt.aJf. [t'mnd earporate.J

Inco'hRICIJILY. aJv. [from
To a degree of defiraviiy beyond
ineano of amendment.

This is now drfufed

nwterial; anbodied.

to avoid confiifion, jvci'-firittf bemg rather ufed of things mingled.
Mofei forebore to fpeik of aogclt, and thinp inRMgh.
v'lGbU ind immpM^tie.
Incorpora'tios. n./. {^incorporation, it.

Incorrv'pt.
7
iNCORRu'PTtD. j
1.

z.

Formation of a body politick.
Adoption; union; affociation;

2.

Pure of manners ; honeft; good. It is
man above the
power of bribes.

and cormptihh.]

Bcmlry.

Immaterially; without body.

5o'Inco'rp5e.

incorporate;, to unrte

ic\Acorpfe.]

So alfo

1.

He grewuntohis feat,.

To tliicken;

the contrary to attenuate.

If the cork be too light to fink under the furface,
the body ot water may be attenuated with Ipiritsot
wine ; if too heavy, it may be inciajfnied with fait.

Not
[in and correct.]
not exaft;. inaccurate;

Blov.;n'x l^i/lgar Errourt.
Acids 4iflblve 01 attenuate, alealics precipitate or

full of fan Iti.

iucontB.: why t.ikeit;.
The piece you think
Via all fubmiirioii ; what you'd have it, make it.
Papf.
is

Ncivr.n's Oprich.
IneraffaU.
Acids, fuch as are auftere, as unripe fruits, produce too gieat a ftridure ot the fibres, Incr.TffMr
and coagulate the fluids j from whence pains and

IhCORRe'ctlv. (K/f. [itotaiHnrreclS] Inaccnratcty; not exa(;>ly.

iNCORHt'cTNESs. »./.

Arbulhno:.

rhcumalifm.

[r». and

arreSne/s.]

Inaccuracy; want of exixflncfs.
InCo'rRICIBLi;. adj. [incorrigible, l^I, in
and corrigible.]
Bad beyond correftion ; depraved beyond
I
amendment by any means ; erroneous beyond hope of Inlhuftion of perfons.

iNfRASSA'riON.Tj./. [from incrajfa:e.'\
1. The aft of thickening.
2. 'J"he flate of growing thick.

iNCR'ASSA-riVK.

/.

[from incrafate.]

i:he tv»o latter indicate redringcnts to (launch,
Hurwy.
and mcraffati-vci to thicken the blood,

geance continue to chaftifc us with the jujgr-ient of
i'liiulrijge.
war.
The mod violent party-men are fuch as have difeoTtred leaft fenfe of'religion 01 morality j and when

To Incrf.'ask. 1'. n. [in and crefco, Latfn.]
1. To grow more in number, or greater in
bulk ; to advance in quantity or value,
or in any quality capable of being more

bid afiJe, as ftial! be four.d incorrigible, it

winbeoodJfficulry 10 reconcile the reft.
:

t!.

Having the quality of thickening.

Provok'd by thofe incorrigluU fools,

Urydtn.
! left declaiming in pedantick fchooU.
Whilll we are inccrrigihit, CoJ may in ven-

Not capable of amendment

for the de-

Nothing doih conglaciate but water;

termination of quickfllver i.s fixation, that of inllk
Brnvn.
coagulation, and that of oil ircrajf.ititin.

,

:

Sivifi.

oriels.
Hear and obferve to do it, that it may be well with

of things.

The lofs is many times irrecoverable, and the in-

.'^nd from

5.

All the j>irn'd/cofthyhaufc (ball die in the flower
Samuel.
of their age.

i-oc'it.

6.

Pope'i OJyfcy.

The ftate of waxing, or growing full
orbed.

Ufcd of the moon.

Seeds, hair, nails, hedges and herbs wll glow
foonelf , if let or cut in the inereafe of the moon.

Bacon I Natural fVflary,

Incre'aser. n.f.

[from

He

inereafe.]

who increafes.
Increa'ted. /?<»/.

Not created..

Since the dcfire is infinite, nothing but the abfolute and increaled Infinite can adequately fill it.
Cheyne.

TnCREDIBi'i.ITY.

». /.

[incredibilitiiYt.]

The quality of furpafling belief.
For obje^s of ineredilnliiy, none arc fo removed
from ait appearance of tiuth as thofe of Corncille's

Dryden.

Andromeda.

iNCRt'uiBLE. cdj. [rncredihiliSfXAl.] Surnot to be credited.
The lliip Argo, that there might want, no /wc/r-

pafliivg belief ;

Raleigh,
dible thing in this fable, fpoke 10 them,
Prcfenting things impoflible to view,
They wander through incredible to true. Cran-i'ille.

lNt;RE'DlBLENESi. n. /. [ttom incredible.]
Quality of being not credible.

Lv c R e'd I B Y aJt: [from incredible.]
a manner not to be believed.
1.

.

In

Incredu'lity. n. f..[ir.credulitc , French.]
Quality of not believing; hardnefs of

He was more large in the dcfcripliors of Pandllc,
to take aw«y ill fctuplc fromthe incredultiy oi fuUtic
Rettiigb,
ages.

i "//«• ii- i6.

and ;udgmeiit, the cftett of okfervation, ftill increaf, s.
Drydcn,
I

Him young Thoifa bore, the bright inereafe
Of Phorcyt.

Dent. vl. 3.

From fifty toihreefco?« he lofes not much in fancy;

Decay of fleiji.
»x aar incorrigiiitmp.
chiding ufed, much Icfs blows,
I- would no: have
'tin ohltlBacy aud inetrrigiilen.-fs auite it abfolntely

Sbaktfp.

Progeny.

Profane and vain babbling will /«i-n.^unto ungodlinels.

;

her derogate body never fpri.^g

A Babe.

belief..

thee, and that je may incre.ife mightily.

Mcte's Divine Dialeg^.
convenience in.:errigiiti.
What are their thoughts of things, bur variety of
h'Ejirange.
incorrigltle tiroi

iNCo'RklClBLEfJ-ESS. «. f.. [from incorriHopelefs depravity bjidnefs begiiie]
yond all means of amendment.
What we call penitence becomes a fad attertation

Into her womb convey ftcrility ;

Dry up in her the organs oi inereafe,

Purity of manners; honefty ; integrity.

Freedom from decay or degeneration.
ToIncra'ssate. OJ.o. [inznilcrajfus, Lat.]

As tie had been Incorps'd and demy-naturM
Shakrfftan' 1 Hftnlei.
With the kravc horfe.
a(^.

4. Generation.

Cor.

z.

nicely finilhed;

Thofe grains which grew produced an inereafe beMoriimer'i Htifbaadrj,
yond expedation.

Probity of mind, integrity, and incorrupintfi of
manners, ii prcfesable to fine parts and liibtile fpecui-yoodivard.
lations.

To

^ot ufed.

Ikcorre'ct.

I

iNCORRu'r TNESS. n.f. [in zvidi Corrupt.]

one body,

into

As Hefiod lings fpread waters o'er thy field,

Anda mo!ijurt and glad i'lcreafe 'twiU yield. Derh,

Incajxicity of corruption.
is the refurreftion of the dead: it is fown

in corruption, it is raifed in incorrnption.

Ntem6.

frfrt/^ of the wine-pref*.

and corruption.]

Hearing ftrikcth the fpirits more immediately
than the other fenfcs, and more iiworpni'ttUy tfian
bacon.
the fmdiing.
•InCORPORe'itY. »./. [l« and corporeilj.]
Immateriaiity ; diftinClnefs from Ixidy.

tevit.

Produce.

The increafr of t^e ihrelhing-floor, «r»d the in~

Milion'i Par. VJl.
hanging incorrupiiiU.
Our bodies (hall be changed into incorruptible ar.d
immortal I'ubllances, our fouls be enteruincd wiih
the moil ravilhinj objcas, and both continue happy
H'ake.
throughout all eternity.
Incok Ru'pTiON. n.f. [incomiptiofi, Fr. ;//

Imcobpo'really. ad^J. [itom incorporeal.]

\i)t

original ftock.
Take thou no ufury of him n»r Inereafe.

As leaves a great Itore of fruit untouch'd.

mi pei«ptiori mart neceRarily proceed trom

Increment; that which k added to the

2.

Still

Thai iienrfortai ffh^ to fmalleft forms
Milton.
ReducM their (liapei immenfe.

a.

For three years he liv'd with large Incre^rft
In arms of honour, and efteem in peace.
OryJen,
Hail, bards triumphant 1 born ui happier days.
Whole honours with incieaft of ages grow.
As ftreams roll down, enlarging as they flow. Pope.

3.

In (iich abundance lies our choice.

Bacon.

1/.

'fenfJe.

hlot capable of corrup-

tion ; not admitting of decay.

xyKvi.

Incre'ase. »./ [from tlie verb.]
the ftate of growing
1. Augmentation;
more or greater.

Hake-will.

immateriate. Whereof there be in nature bat few.

fome incorporeal fubftance within us.

£i.ei

.

Incorru'ptible. adj. [incorruptible, Fr. in

It is a virtue which may be called incorpertal and

Sam.

viWMnereafnht famint.
Sxei^y, 16.
them with men like a flock.

It icmt to inereafe tkat tseafure, or to prelerve it.

lity, alledgeth the vetfesof a Greek tr.-i2ick poet.

unbodied.

fceCity,

I

I willimrr.'y<

;'»-

Immaterial

corporel, Fr. in and corpareal.]

He hath incrcajcjia Judah mourning and lameiitatian.

bility of corruption ; incapacity of decay.
Fbilo, in his book of the world's incorruptiti-

adj. [incorporalis, Lat.

Hye tlice fsom this (laughter-houfe.

French.]
Free from fonlnefs or depravation.

we aflually are, by our aflual ineorpora-

Incorpo'real.

3.

Left [hou inereafe the number of the dead. Stairfp.

I.vcoRRurTiBl'LtTT. ». f. [irKorruptiliInfufceptilite, Fr. from incorruptible.]

H<ioker,

fuch are

[in and corrupius,
Latin; incorrem^u,

adj.

with

In him
lim MM that fociety which hath him for tlieir head.

Hate,

To Incri'ase. f. a. [See £«cREAi£.]
To make more or greater.

particularly applied to a

iitto.

Senfe

or birds, as appears by theirnumerous fpawn.

Diftemper'd all things, and, of incorrupt^
Millon'i Paradlft Z.3/f.
Corrupted.

Bacon.
compound ftuflF profitable.
This, with fome little additional, mav fiirther the
Hiji.
Bjon's
Naural
intrinfick incorftration.

:

Hiihes are more numerous or inc't,ftig ihanbealW

all

Sin, that firft

flint ; for if it cm be incorporated without o«ei great
chaife, the cheapncfs ol the flint doth make the

N C"

To he fertile.

2,

"Rojenm.

Some men appear incorrigibiy imi.
They cleatilinefs and company rcnoani;C.

from incorporate.']
1. Union of divers ingredients in one mafs.
Make proof of the ixcarforjtim of iron with

3.

I
inearrigiile.]

Henry, in knots, involv'd his Emma's name
Upon this tree ;, and, asthe tender mark,.
Crew with the year, and widen 'd with the bark

lNCRB'DiJL0t.'S. adj..[incrcdule, French ; inLatin,]
liard of belief; recreaiiliis,
fufing credit.
1

am not altogether inereJulnes bul'there maybe

Venus had heard the viigin's foft addrefs,

fuch candles as arc made of falamander's wool, being
a kind of mineral which wjiiteoeth io tlie burning,

That as the wound .the paaio:! might iwr/<i/r, trior,

and cottfumcih not.

'

s

Bac^n.

Lncre'dvlousness.

f

N C

I

INC

N C

I

tulettii, keciufe we are too apt to forget U.

Iwcft s'rr LOtiSNiss. n. /, [itom iacrtju/««.] Hardnefs of belief incredulity.
IwcREMABte. ndj. [r« and rff»»c, Latin.]

.

Amr^>try.
TOnriniiiitly /ffra'/nr?*'j "morairty and piety

Inculca'tiow.

and incur not to the eye ; but yet they are to
be dcprehended by experience.
Bacon.
vifible,

[from inculcate.}
It from the ikln of th» falamarder tiiefc ittrrtThe aft of imprefling by frequent admomaiJt- pieces are compofed. Btcmi'i t^ulgar Errcjiri
""?" = admonitory repetition.
•J«c^E>ME.N-T. n: r. [«r«;«.«/»«. Latin.]
flNCULT.
adj. [inailtf, trench; tncultus.
:_~'»™.-,
..
jiii.^i
Aft of growing greater,
w. /.

The mind of man, even in fpirituals, afts witii
corporeal dcpendance ; and fo is he helped or hin.
dereJ in its operations according to the different
quality of external objeils that incur into the fenles.,

L

Latin.] Uncultivated; untilled

the Nile's iw-

Diners conceptiaiij arc concerning
BrtntfyTi f^u/^ar Errours.

2. Iftcnjafe ;
'i'hij

matter added.

Planted of old.

flratum i! cipaadcd at top, ferving as the

confcijueiitly not the object oiicjaic:, but pity.

Laree ivz'tmer.t^ eameft of happy yean.

*

To 1'ncrepate. v. a.

To chide

;

South.

Lvcu'lpably. adv.

and culf,abiUi,
Latin] Unblamcably; without blame.

Phiiii^s.

[iticrffo,

Latin.]

As to errors or

to reprehend.

Increpa'tjok. «. /.

Lathi.]

Reprehenfion ; chiding.

I.

The afcending

to till

a

Cheynt.
wh(^.».

The (fcield was porchafed by Woodward,
cri^id it » ith a new rul\.
Arbutbnol and toft,

•..

Arhuthnot.

,1

1

he intakui

r.

In many places the whole ecclefiaftical dues
are
and the incumbent lieih at the mercv

of hi. patron.

My caufe
Is ftill

eppferting the brcalt.

•r.

[tncombrer, French.]

See Enc u mber.

and that long look'd for day
incumber'd with fome newdelav.
Drydeti
Is

call'd,

7a INCU'R "J. a. [incurro, Latin.]
I
. To become liable to a punilhment or reprehenfion.
•^

of
me l>omac^ which hinders the motion of the dia-

phragma, lungs, and pulfe, with a

a.

I

have incurred difpleafure from

inferiors

giving way to rh« faults of othei s.

for

Hayuurd.

hey, not obeying,
Ineurt'd, what could they lefs
the penalty
'1

fealeofa »ri"ht

And manifold io fin, dcfrrv'd to fall.

f,"

So judge thou rtill, prefumptuous

auent admonitions; to enforce by
conlant repetition.
M*ai«ft uutb Buy dcfem Ibmeiimes (e be in.

!

,

{htcurjim, French.]
Invafion without
conqueft ; inroad ; ravage.
.Spain is very weak at home, or very (low to move,
when Ihey luft'ercd a finall ftcet of KnglUh to make

The incurjioni of the Goth»dUbrdercd the aiT.iifs
of the Roman empire,
Aibuiinot en Coins.

Incvjrva'tjon,

r.v

/.

[from

incur'vo,

Latin.]
1.

2.

The aft of bending or making crooked.
State of being bent; curvity; craokedneft.

One part moving while the other reft?, one would
think, fhould caufe an incurvation in the line.
Glunville,

of the body in token of reve-

3. Flexion
rence.

He made ufe of aflsof worlhip which Cod hath

;

MUton.
'till

the wralhj

Whicn ihoii imturr-Jt by flyi„,, meet thy flight

;'

Sins of iiily i«rj/r/fo», and fuck a« human frailty
unavoidably liable to.
South.

appropriated ; as incmvatuM, and lacrifice.

.>

INCU'LCATE. „. a. [incuUo, Latfn
UKulquer, Fr^-nth.] To imprefs
by frc-'

Sauifi,

an hoftile invaliun or incuijion, upon their havens
and ro.ads.
h.ic7n.
Now the Parthian king hath garlicr'd all his hoft
Agaiml lilt Scythian, whofc incurjiuu wiU
Have waftedSogdiana
Milton,.

n^^.^j-;

'V.

To embarrafs.

,

an inflation of the membranes

2.

who is in prefent poflcffion of a benefice.

I'ncw.us «./ [Utln; Mi:;,^,, French.]
Ine nightmare.

is

L'EJlrange.

in lay hands,

o know the converfe of mankind.

iNcu'asioK. ». /. [from incurn, Latin.]
i. Attack; mifchievous occurrence.

Inco'mbejjt. «,/. \i„cum'vens, Latin.] He

To Incu mber.

i},-rbam.

He feldom. at the Park appear'd ;

'I'hus, if we think and afl, we Ihall
(hew ourfelves duly mindful not only of the advantages
we
receive from thence, but of the obligations
alio
which are incumbent upon us.
Aiierbury.

The ad of fitting upoij

fome few fam.lies (houW do it in a more novercal
0.rham.
^
"'iV white
uAs the
of an egg by incubation, fo can the
Serum by the aflion of the fibres be attenuated.

Sfratt'iSermoni.

exercife of our powers.

French;

enc, IS on'y
Birds have eggs erough at firil conceived
in them
to fetve them, allowing fuch a proportion
for every
year as w ill feive for o< c or two iniuialions.
Hay
When the whole tribe of birds hy incubation pio.!
duce their young, it is a wonderful deviation,
that

his creatures, to be tasked upon with a caielefs ix-

xuri-jui tye.

There is a double duty incumienl upon us in the

o

vilalicy was by Intutalian, or
how
known to Cod.
Raltigh

impofed as a duty.

,

Loelke.

gent ; inattentive.
The Creator did not beftow fo' much fltiU upon-

All men, tnily zealous, will perform thofe
good
works that are incumbent on ail Cliriftiaiis.

upon eggs.

"Whether that

ignorant.

Ik cv'kiov3. ad;, [in -And 4iirioiu. I Negli-

1

Thonifott.

Add'.Jonon Italy.

eggs to hatch them.

lNcu'RABt,Y.fl</v. [from ///faraiit,] Without remedy.
We cannot know it ittff ie ndt, hetttflHcaraf/y

Yet, not incuricuit was indin'd

She draws a dofe incumbent cloud at death.

chapels are laid over with fuch a rich variety of /«crujtaliaiu as cannot be (Mind in any other part.

[incubation,

up that part of the pipe which they pervaded,

Of peftilencc, and o'er his guilty domes

Fr.

a prodigious (lock of marble, their

incubnth, Lat.]

n. J. [from incurable.\
State of not admitting any cure,

Man is the deilin'd prey

from incriijio, latin
J An adherent covering; fomeihing Aiperinduced.

Iucwba'tiom. n. /.

Incu'rableness.

now little

having

and by prcding every way againlt the lides of it, ,to
lift upwards with them what waai they
found above
them.
Boylt.
With wings expanded wide ourfelvej we'll rear.
And fly incumbent on the dulky air.
Drjden.
Here the rebel giants lye ;
And, when to move ih' incumbent load they try,
Afcending vapours on the day prevail.
Addijm.

Popt.
Any of ibefe fun-like bodies in the centers of the
feveral von ices, are fo incruftated and weaked
to be carried about in the vortex of the (lue fun.

'i

MUtm't Paradi/t l/i/l.

parcels o» air,

mote than the weight of the incumhmt water to
furmoiint, were able both fo to expand themfelves as

Wcod'Ward.
Save "but our army ; anj let Jove hcruft
Swords, piltes, and guus, with cverlalling ruft.

fit

Reftingupon; lying upon.
That fclt unufual weight.

Bacon.

To I'ncubate. ro. n. [i/reuii. Latin.]

Sbakcfprart,
Afcfahrus i« not abfolutely incurablt, becaufe it
has been koowu llMt fitih palliire has cured it in
cittle.
Jirbuthtit.
If idiots and lunatick»cannot be found, incurables
may be taken into the hufpital.
Sauift.

Then with eapandcd wings he ftcers his flight

Sime rivers bring forth fpars, and other mineral
natter, (b as 10 cover and incruji the ftonet.

Having fuch

Sbakeffcart,
Slop the rage-betime.
Before the wound d<. grow incurable ;
For being green, ihere is great hope of help.

Alofr, incumieM on the dulky air,

.And the grof&r iliclc baked and inctufiatt upon the

[incrujialion,

Or overthrow incurable enfues.

IN'CUMBEMT. ad/, [incumhem. Latin.]'

cover with an additional coat adhering to
the internal matter.
The finer part of ihe wood will be lumtd info air,

n. f.

Paufe not; for the prefent time's fo fick.

That prefent medicine mud be minifired.

Thefc fines are only to be paid to the bilhop, during
his incumbency in the fame fee.
S'u.ijf

Hammond.
> V. a. {inenifif, Latin;
Inchu'state. 5 inrrijier, Fr.] To

Incrusta'tiok.

hopelefs.

The aft of lying upon another.
2. The (late of keeping a benefice.

Ikchu'st.

kdesof thcvelfel.

be removed by medicine ; irtemediable ;

of man's
and therefore /ircW^aAA',
Houlh.
frailty

1.

then more publiclc rcprchenlions and incremations.

7e

the

Insurable, adj. \_!ncierab!e, Fr. in and
curable.']
Not admitting remedy; not to

IjjCu'mBENCT. n.f. [{torn r'lcumitn.J

Tlic adn:;oni:ions« fraternal or paternal, of his
feltow Chriftians, or of the governors of the chuah,

'Ji

infirmities,

condition has invincibly,
eipofed him.

'

[increpali».

[in

Fr.

proper and improper conlumption, together with the
reafon of the fncur,tbility of the former, and facile
Cure of the other.
Harvey,

tural inability, is as to Rie:i, atleart

the loofen'd roots now drink

\incuraliliie,

Impoffibility of cure;
utter infufceptibility of remedy.
We'll inHantly open a door to the manner of a

be cefolved into naincmfmbic, and

it ra-iy

n. f.

horn incumblf.'\

Tisjmjm't Autumn.

Jgaorance, fo tar as

3. Produce.
The orchard lor« to wave
:

.rwcuRABi'LiTT.

Ikcu'lpa'bl?. adj. {in and culpabilis,
Latin.] Unblameable; not reprehenfible.

^minary that furnifbeth matter for die formation
and ixcrimtni of animal aod vegetable bsdic!.

With Winter winds

.S<ii»f4^

Her foreiU huge,
tncutt, rob-alt and tall, by Nature's hand

cremeritf or inundation.

with

The motions of the minute parts of bodies arc ir.-

Bntvn's NnU: rs Pafe's Otiyjry.

to the Gods.

Not confumaWe by fire.

to prefs on the fenfes :

to or intit.

;

'HoTTi^r

To occur

Sev'ntoW, and fcourge that wiidom back to hell.
Mil-cn.
.
,
—1.
They ,had a full perfuafwe that not to do it were
10 defen God, and confeciuentlj to incur
aajnnaiion.
South.

StilliufJheK

7<»Incu'rvate.

To bend
Sir Ifaac

;

-v.

a, [incur-vo,

Lwm.j

to crook.
Newton has (hewn, by feveral

1

experi-

ments of ra) J palling hy the cdjtis of bodus, that they
aie incuiTMid by the aftiou of tliclc bodies.
Cieyne.

iKCu'KViTy,

n./. [from imurvus, Latin.]

Crookcdnefs-.

N D

I

Cfookednefsj the

of bending la-

ftatc

Pondo is an

muft be tafcen not

ineuTv'itj of a dolphin

tilly, but in appearance, when lliey fcap above water,

j)car crooked.

To fearch

f. a.

Indaca'tiov.

[from
/.
«ximination.

».

Search; enquirj-

;

hislile?

Bylr.

I'il 16bk to like, if looking liking move j
But^iio more dc^p wiU 1 hJjtr hiinc'eye,

Than'youf confsnt gives Ibenjth to make it fly.
Shakrffeait.

Ti>rgiA'c us our tins,

pliatical.

..

;

(iramiHU.

[;« and debt.\
Obliged by fomcthing received ; bound
to rcttitution ; having incurred a debt. It

the perfon

before

to

whom the

ceived.
"Courfc go •'forward without

lit

inftruments, and that

"

We are \vholly-i«rfei/e«/yi»- lhct» '0 our aiifellnTs.
Svi/'t.
tr. /.
[iniiecetKe,
French.]
'.Any (hing nnbecortiing ; any thing contrary to good manners; fomething wrong,
but fcarce criminal.
He will in vain endeavour to retbrm indecency in

his pupil, which he itUows in himfelf

Unbecoming;

iiecent.]

urrfit

for the eyes
5.

our church, to be cither iutrinlic-illy unlawful or in-

Ind tF a'tigable. adj.
and

Souib.

Indi;'c tNTl.Y.'rt.At'. [from /Wfiv///.] With,041 decency ; in a mur.ncr contrary to
[///

tailing;

i\(i«

tluit do

not Ihcd tlicir letives in winter.

and Itrvile.

c J. J .N A B 1. 1
'

.

r/<^'.

\inieclinable, Fren

(, li ;

'

•

by their various fiofitions,

1

J
.

J

Unpremeditated;

net

deratioD.,

'

^

adj.

'.

ee>nl'

//o/^.

[indrlibere, ,¥t.

and de/tbciafe.}
done without confi»«

.

1

-'

Aclions proceeding from bbndinmneiits, orfwtet
perfua(ion:>> if they be indeiibtruted, as in children
wh-a want luc ul< ol rcafuii, are

Milton.

ot prefciitly free

anions.

Brjmii,ait.

The love cf Cad better can conlill with the/«.ir/ibee.ire conimilhuns of many fins, than with an ailo.ved [icitillancc in anjo.iC.

Si,M!b,

Guv. cftbe T(j»euf.

j

iNDEFA'riGABLY. adv. [from indefatiga- Inde'libi.e. adj. [iiidi lebile
j

j

k.

Gnwearied;

inJrfinitude,

IsD tH'fliiRArE.
I jj B E 1. 'u E R A T £ D

'Iht ambitious perfon mutt rife early and fit up
iatr, and purfue his delign with .1 cotiiiaiit inJif.iti^ubU attctidancc : he mult be inhnitely patient

We find the ftitiie ot the fun framed with rays
J .71)

Latin.]

'

.'

biiiations aiidconjunilions.

SJndefatigahilis, in

Over the vaft abrupt ?

and deciduous.]
ufcd of trees

about riic (,..-aJ, which were the indecijutus mid un/<;o«vr.
fiialcen locks 01 Apollo.

drftitigo,

^f>£^uior.

They arife to a llraiij:e and prodigious multitude,
if not

tired ; not exhauftcd by labour.
\V ho lliall fpre.id his airy tlight,
UpbouK with inde/Mig.thU wings,

decency,
llicd.

note conceffion in compari-

Againft thefe forces were prepared to the number
of near one hundred I) ipsi not fo great ot bulk indeed, but of a more nimble motion.
Hete^n.

ttcritt, the ufc of ihcm, as cliabliflied amongti us, \i

may bd -fo t»

I.NDL ri'lsTfUDK. 11. f. [froill indeflntc^\
Quantity not limited by our underllanding, though }et finite.

is

It is ufed to

it

four limes, ot i«drjir:irely more than thrice.

'

foiis.

'Till theft men can prove thefe things, ordered by

not

though it IS not bounjitli in itlislr,
Iiuman comprcheulion.

To

Raenn.
indeed no great pleafure in viliting thefe
magaxinesjof war, after one bjt fecu (wo or three of
tliem.
AddifoK.

There

,

rniy be indrjinite;

it

Biou-t,
A duty to which all are -/wi/e/fwrVi-/)' obliged, upon
fome occafions, by the exprcfs command of God.
^'nuinds'.
'
'
.
a degree indefinite.
2.
If the word be indefi/:i:eiy cxtendctl, that i?, .fo
far as no human inulkil can fancy any .bounds of
R.ij.
it, M^en they f!i what mull be the leall parr.

ihougii

rcalon ^o to think.

I^ocu.

i« and

,

.

Though it is not infinite,

-

Drydeu.

(7..V.

and

might, ercn where it is properly enough

Chaia<^ers, where obtccne words were proper in
but .very, indecent to be heard.

'

explicable,

Dryden.

Large beyond the comprehenfion ai
man, though not abfolutely without li-

We conceive no more than the letter beareth; that

inferred, be omitted without mi'!>.
1 f.iid
I, tiio'.iglit it was coritetltricy .h:Iwccn the
jugjilcr and the '.^^o fervants , llio' indeed 1 had no

their mouths,

Inoaci'uuoL's.

time oi this lall is left indefinite.
2.

is,

foiiie degree of "obfcure power is perceived,

or ears.

necclTary.

or

I}ae<,s.

tation.
Wc obfcne that cuflom, wh.ereunto St. PaiJl
illudeth, and whereof the lathers of thcchuich in
their writings make olteii mention, to thew indefiniteiy what was done ; but not univerfally lo bind
lorevcr all prayers unto one only falhion of utterance.

is

(lerceplible

InBe'cBNCV,

IvBe'cEfiT. adj. \_iudeceftt, French;

England had.

Tragedy and picture are more namosvly circumftribed by place and time tlun the epick poem :iUc

.1

4. Tt is iifed fometimes as a flight aflTcrtion or recapitulation in- a fcnfc hardly

Hogtrr.

•

but thus,
that it (hould be asgieat a* cvVr any former ijueeo of

1

nothing in the w-orld more generally
dreaded, and yet Icfs to be feared, than death ; i*ideed, "lor thofe unhappy men whofe hopes terminate
in this life, no wonder it the prolpecl of another
feenis terrible and amazing.
IVake.

we daily-ftand rVx/ci/t'rf to Cod.

"'

'

H.icon*i Ejjayi.'
ir.dejinite ;

left

iNnE'UNl-lEI.Y. eidv, [ftom%dif/nie.]
Without any fettled or determinate limi-

Dryden.

I

fet-

;

...

mits.

Luke.

There

.

Kot determined ; not limited ; not

who would look for .-Vdam*s Iicir

Who keep ihcmfclves from this infcflion free.

t}ie ciiicfclt top and- welUfpring of all true virtues,
-even as Gjd is of «n things.
thoker,
Ifew coafider how mucl) \te are indebted to go.
vernmeiu, becaufc tew can rcprefent how wreiclied
mankind would be without it.
Aiterbury.
Let us repiefcnt to our fouls the love and bcncti-

Sandei/,1!.

Her advancement was

limitalion; indeed, of our author will favc

Some fons indeed. Tome very few we fee.

'

\o far as to the.

'I'hough a polition fliouM be wholly rejefted, yet
that negative is more pregnant ol dire£liou than an

Soutii.

men.

which iiltcrih them be then" virtues, let polity acknowledge itfclfiWc-^/r^/ /^-religion; godliuefs being

cence_/li- which

.

amongft the race of brutes^ but will very little contribute to the *Jifcovtry of onCi next heir amongft

If the courfe of politick alTairs cannot in any good

life, .even

indefinite \ as aOies are mqie i;<;acrative than dull.

A

the labour

tliofe

main-'

cjr,
•

,

.

Fr ]

fill,

cm-

who iiavc lovM and honour'd you fo long. Dryden.
i.s to be granted that.
particle of
connection.
This

debt isjduc, and for before the thing re-

>

"

INDE'i'I.NrTE. adj. {inic/lmtus, Lat. iuJc-'

Hhjkefpeare.

This

'

takingup of a ftraw, foit is allogeilier lalfc or ;W.--

I

3.

dvifended.
•:

.

tled.

being Ifraelites indeed.
I were a bealf , indeed, to do you wrong,

li^Tit.''Bi (.py^articip:al adj.

cannot., lie
•

J

adj. [;> and difetijui, Xfll. ].

fcnjiiie.

But things of weight and confequence ///(^cfi/,
Himfelf doth in ins chamber them debate. D.fuics.
Such fons of Abraham, how highly foever they
may have the luck to be ihouglit of, arc far from

Miltm.

-

t

As thay extend the rule of confultinj Scriptitrefo

Bormwiin mean aflfairs, his fubjefls pains

Luir, xi. 4.

Th' JWi-^(^(/n.itian bountcouUy repay.

has /!3

is

): .

all the a-fiipnt -ot.commou

'

Tliis blell alliance may

.

ITiis ufe

•' '',-

tained.

Then didit thou utter, J aai youi's forever:

He for himfelf
'

What

''_

*Tis grace indeed-

for we-foi^ive ev^r^y one that

JuJrhliJ ini undone, has nought to bring.

'

.-•

11 1.,

.

N D E F E N s I B I.

hurtful. iieverthclefs they may prove, as

Above tommon rate.

2.

is iin/eiieJ to us.

\

..

,

I

.

To put into debt,
z. To oblige; to put under obligation.
i>

<

'

invcftcd, be bi:yoii4 i'

H^Kk^r.
Some, who have not deferved judgment of deaih,
have been for their good's fake c.iiighi up and carried Urair to the bough: a thing indeed very pitiful
andhoiTible.
Spenjer.

in ; to ftrike in.

To Inde'bt.,i;. a.

if wcdo not 1:11

Tc-utig.

their [loifon into new minds.

'

•

[

well in ref;ard of their fitncfs to ferve the turn oi
hereticks and I'uch a :v privily mill TCnture.tnijillil

Boyte.

7»Ikda'rt. 1.: a. pa ani Jari.'] To dart

'

irrevocable.
So irdefiij.,

'I'haugh luch alfemblies he had indeed for reli"gion*i fake,

,

'

;

In reality; in trtith; in verity.
Yet loving, IndefJ, md thereforcconftanf; Si.lrej.

1.

ij.,T|iit nas^bcr of the cltm^-nts of bodies teijuirej to
Ve.fijiwcbcil into by fucli ik'ilhjl UJjg^tirs ol nature.

,

[Latin.J

Arc indednievii in ihe Mtxl^ii maid.

..fcardier; an enquirer; an examiner.

'

or decay.-

:

iNDtrt'isisi.E. rti^". [hidefnifihh, French.]Not to be ci;t off; nor to b; v.-^mrcd r

Nonii.
In-Jccency

Inde'ed. ad-v. [in ind deed,]

A

\_t»Jagator, Latin.]

'.'

1

fomething unbecoming.
The foft adJrefs, the cartigated grace,

Pan hitli been difcflvercd by Itiinftlfl: and ftnie by
h^min hi Jaganc/!* ' " Btorwn'iVulgji' Eitourx.

Ij^DaGa'tur. »./.

.

.

Indeco'rum. tr. /.
,

Afbutbnoi.

to. violate
the comm.inds, and trample upon thi
authority, of that awful Exceiloiice to whom he owi-.

hiJagatf.^

,

.-

i

L'l^rafcirus dircds lu, in the inja^alion of coloMrs,

to have an eye.jarincip^illy upoQ falts,

-

>

[NDEeECTiBi'i-iTr. n.f. [from indefciliik ] The quality of fuflTcring no dccay-j
ofbeingfubjeft. to no defect,
u'
[ndbfe'ctible. m/j. [in and -dtfeSus,
Latin.] Unfailing; not liable tot deJiett

when -it is

,,

to beat oat.

;

word> and

decent; unbecoming.
What can be more inJccmoui than for a crcalui

,

Latin.J

[inihgo,

the church and flate, and whtSr: writings have highly
':•.
.-.^
.
'O'ydewT^

defenred of boi'hr

Indeco'rov^. adj. [i/id(coriu, Lapn.^ In-

Brcwft.

To I'NDAGATE.

indeclirT.thle

joined to nurol^crs it liguitics li6ia.

ani fuddenly (hoot down ai;ain :' ftrait bodies, in a
liiJden motion, protruded obliijueljr downward, a^-

Not .vari^. by ger''
"

minations.

The

'

Latin.]

intJircliriahilii,

Hvard.

I

ble, j

A

Lat. ill xnAdttibW,

M'ithoot wearinefs.

mail indefaiiguiiy icatous in

(he fcrvice of

,

Fr.

i)idelt:bi.'ts

JU ihuuld be written

iridcUbU.]
1.

Kot

I

''iND

^t 'n"d
'

,

perpiirinon of unworthy a-i\iofis h;»ndi
with inJrlibU charattws the aame and •n^i'tW/J'\Vilful

;

'

:'

"

'_,AfKlfpot;»j'.W/<' thy pdcllet foil.

Nt)t toise; aimuiled.

2.

,.,

Freed oin ;

"•

j

Thry we cnJiteil v.ith irJ/liiUfOWCtiJvri ab^ivc

Want of delicacy

;

•

.

thm* iitdcHcacw

tl.ey

•

•

Aidrf,.!!.
MiH fe'.t-lore.
Inoe'i.icate. o(//. [///and Jehatr.] Wapting decency ; void of a quick fcnfe ot

I»D EMNiTic a'^tiost. ?r.y: [ffom iHdemnifj.^
Sceurjty againll lofs or penalty.

I .

1. Keimburfeiiient of loA or penalty.

To Iniie'.VNIFy. it. a. r//.' and ddmnifj.^.

To ftcure againft lofs or penalty.
To maintain unhurt.

T.

2.

'

Infclciii liginfiti rudt ssj hauglity,

Give me,

Ucpfafe.

.

French.]

'-•'

•

I

ufe

w.il

all

•

qualities like 3 rotv of

z.

The opening of hn tnouch ; but fuddeniv,

,

unltnlc'd itfcif,

Aivi with IxJinlrJ i^iia did ftipav r.
abaiiff A! y>u t'lk: il.
Into » bull).
Tlie fernent then, not with 'ndiaiid vji.iz,

Frone orvihe ground, as fitice; but on his rear
t.'irc'iljr baf':

of tidi.j folds, that towcr'ii

H» thirty arnu »loiig the inicntid meads. Milian.
The margins on t.A>M fide do not Terminate iit a
(friti^lit

line, but ai« irtdinttd.

lVi,id-u.-arJ.

iNDh'.'iT. f. n. [from the method of
cutting counterparts of a contraifl toge-

7'i

ther,

that, laid on each other, they

may

and any want of conformity maydifcovec a fraud.] To contrail; to bargain;
to make a compaft.
Sfla't "e buy treaft*!, and /Wewr with fears,
fir,

Shaktfptare.
He defcends to the folemnity of a pafl and coveDrcay cf Fitry.
flant, and has indtntrd viii'i us.

iKDt'jJT. «./. [from the verh.] Inequality;
incifure ;

indentation.

This

is

little

ufcd.
Trent fliall not wind with fuch a deep indrmt.

To rob me of io lich a bottom here.
Hbakfffy
IwoiNTA'Tro.v. n.J'. [in and dent, Latin.]

An indcnEure; watting in any fignrr.
'The margins do not termin.iic in a ftraight liflr,
but arc indented i each ttdtntjtiin being coiitinjed
to the imftntatibn
its a TmaM riJgc,
on llie oppoGie margin.

that anf.vcrs it

tKid'Ward,

Ikde'-sture. «./. [ftom iriJf/rt.']
-

"

r<i(ie.

odj . \ij^d<:peiiJant, Yt. /«

A

covenant, fo named bccaufc the counterparts
are indented or cut one by the other ; a
con:ra^, of which thcie ^ a couiUerpart-

i-ccike.

M N a't O K
/. [;« and delermi}iatirjn.\ Want of determination; want of
I

I

?/.

,

fixed or flated diredion.

By contingents 1 undcrftand all things which- may
be done, and may not be done, may hirppen, or may
not happen, by tcafon of the iidiicttainail'-n or accidental concuncnce of tlie caulVs.
Ummbitll.
Indi^-JP'tion. ?/. /. [/Wtvo/roa, Fr. //? and
de--ua:'> J
Want of devotion ; irreligion.
Let us i.iake the church the fcerie of our ^cnias of our faults ; deprecate our former ittde.
veii-.K, and, by an exemplary reverence, rcdrefs
the

tencc,

as

"

ligious.

He pi ays much; yet curfes more; whilll he" is
meek, hui iiidei/aur.
1.

Tartes are the indexes of t!:e difTerent qualities a(
planis, as well as of all forts of aliment. Ariuibnot,
'I'hat wliich was once ilie index to point outfall
mit tliat part of the world
here
the leaH of them relijcs.
w
Decay of Piety.

\

virtues, does h9w nark

2.

Ijcoer E.N-DENT. ». f. One who in religious
affairs holds that everv congregation is a
complete church, fuhjett to no fuperior

in

..

Of tilings to come, at Urge.

A very famous hdffmdfirt minilter was head of a

'tis

.

and in your index to take notice only ol pans new
IValH.

'o y<~-

Difpoic lights and (hadows, without finilbing every

Indexte'rity.

Dryden.

to think the fame

of his merit a reflcilion
Addifon.

Isdk'sinently. ad-v. [indejinrnler, 1" rcnch
in and drfinin, Latin.] Without ceifation.
They continue a month indfinenily,
K.iy nn ibe Crea^Un'.

it

fo compaft

J

The InJextfrliy of ourconfumption-curers deinon.
ftraies their dimncfs in beholding its caufes. thtx'ey

1'ndian Anvit.-rcot. n.f. [marcnnta, Lat.J

A root.

.\ fovereign remedy for the bile of wafps, and
the
foifon of the manchineel tree.
This root the
ndians apply to eitraft the venom of their arrows.

and" firm a body,

irdrjliun;ile\,Y»!{ or BitJK.

that it is

'

Uoyl,

fined or fettled.

There is not only obfcuiity in the end, but beginning of the world ; thai, as ,15 p-:riod is infcrulablc, fo is ;ts nativity indue- mi/tjli'r.
lir-^-wn.
adj,

V. f.

Miller
[acr! viola, Lat.]

A

plant.

Indete'r.\hnablk. a-lj. [in and di/ermi
nnilc:]
Not to be fixed; not to be de-

iNUETt'RMlNATE,

and Vf.v/nvVv.]
;

IvoFSTRu'cTiBLE. adj. [,u and dijlruili- ,1
/>
^
I'N-DlAN Cr(/;.
ble.]
Not to be deftroyed.
Oljfs

[/„

want of readint-'fs
want of handincfs; clumfmefs; aukward;

nefs,

who were once looked on as his equals,

on their own irdr/erli.

». /.

Want of dexterity

Indfse'rt. n.f.\inwa\dcfert.^ Want of
merit.
This is an ufeful word, but not

are apt

SLkeffeare.
book has no index or good fable of contents,
very uftful to make one as you arc reading
«,

If a

Addifn's Nfrffjtor.
I .N ri E p I N D E .V T L Y ad'v. [ fro m iv dependent.
]
Without reference to other things.
college in thofi: times.

'ITiofe

'

To their fubfequent volumes, there is feen
The baby ligure of the grant mils

qiarrelled at by prclbjlerians, indefindenls, or other
puritan feclaries.
Sanderfn.

thing /Wi'f'e«i/f«//y ihc one of ihc other.

Bentley,

The table of contents to a book,
In fuch indfxei, alrhoDgh fmall

our liiurgy as have been unjufllv

'

The hand that points to any thing, asto
the hour or way.
They have no more inwitrd- fclf-confcioiifnefs of
what they do or fufter than the index of a watch, of
the hour it points to.

3.

We Ihall, in our fermons take occaflon to juftify
palfagiii

Decay of Fieiy,
n.f. [Latin.]
The difcoverer ; the pointer our.

Index,

to a

allrhcliamps and charaOeri of excellent contrivance
thcfe alone do very eafily guide us to the wife Author
of all things.
RtntUv.

fuch

Dtc:iy tf Piety.

ISDEVou'r. a,/j. [inde-Mt, Fr. ir: and dt-Not devout; fibt religious ; irrei-out.l

Addfn.

Not relating to any thing clfe,

.

fevcral fenfeii lo I'eivc a turn.
IN D E T ER

much received.

' When they have loft and forfeited chemfr Ives?

hroiivt.

I

.

. Arl>utii7i„tcn Coins'.
I.vnLTE'RMINF.D. adj: [;Va.Td determiuej.]
''
L'nfettlttd; unfixed.
We llioufd not amufe ourfelves svith floating wo'rdt
of indateiuined figiufication, which we can ufe in

authority.

Mihon,
Poldr above fold, a .a'^mg mare !
'I'lciit, who, like lomc earth-bom jiiat, fpre.-ids

when ours beheld it injerenxi/iate/jt

'

fuperior caufe or power.
The conliderstion of our underftanding, which
is an incorporeal fubllance injef-tjidefit fram mafter;
and the contemplation of our own bodies, which have

'

il

cry'd, enough for mc,

of the cantons.

About lri« lieck
A peen and filded (nake had wrealh'd itfetf,

tvho with her head, iiirable in threats, ipproadl'i

,,

to refpoft

The depth of the hold is ir.deiemiiKaufy expaeil'ed

fcand^l of profanencfi.

and out ; to (n;ikc to wave or uodulate.

Seeiiig Orlando,

the t orih,

.1

all

teeth ; to cut in

!^'elv(,on's O/itiris,'

tled manner,
His (lerfpicacity difcemed the loadftone

Since all prinirei of indrpmdfti govern mifn ti re
^n a Ihte ot nature, the wcrlll never svat wilhiut
mcrt 111 that lUtc.
Locke.
The town oi St. rtaul is a rrdteftant republick,
indcprndtnt of the abbot, and under the proteflion

la INDE'NTi rvc^. [.» «»d <j'r«/. a tooth,
I^tin.]

•

nevtrilif-lf .'s iiJtjifinicKI upan kirn in that reljieft.

muM, in the T-ay* o( •mrigftr

To niark any thing with ine-

for iaJadtlirufi'iAtf numberof fucceiliqat.'
r

•

and iTifrmniiy, *hii.h may nkili fully remoip
fears, aiid bury jll /ejloufitj in IprgetfuIneU.^

•

•

In_dets'ii4,iijiaTelV. adv. [/« and aVWmir/^hh.]
Ind'efinitdy ; BOt in any fet-

CVcaicon muil needs infer providence, and Cod's
making thft \»-orld irrefrnc.rbly prove; that he governs
it loo; or ihal a being <^ dependent n.iliire rcmams

Security from puniftiment; exemption
"
from pHnifVinftent.

»

or

and di-ptndent.\
I. Not depending; not fupported by any
other; not relying. on nnother; not controlled.
It is ufed with ov, of, QV fram,
before the obj,e(;:\ ; of which «« fcemstiioft
proper, Cnca we fay to icftuJ »/i, and
confequently dependtnt en.

inimmfy to

^ivikmm'ti,

1

IxDEPtNDENT.

,

». y^

reliance

"So bo'.iiilit an annuj! rent or two,
And liv'djuftas you Ice 1 do.

'

"^•""•

iNPii'MNiTV.

from

My bread and ind'-J>^Mdrjjijff

-,

decency.

not de-

'\}nf.\iA;

in the dcfLripiion.

with woif'-'
would be immoral, did you

unclcarniefeas you «Uy 4:1; imperii.

.' Ittar dciedablj

exfertiption

^ tliiclsacfs,

Orcar.ii may giire us/btj^ ij-aoi t!ic great cxcclicocy of a human foul, anti i^iaa intimations of iu
AdMj\*t.
ttid'!ftKdai^y 011 matter*
,1
Let fortune do lier woif}, wliatever (he makei us
^Ce, as, long as the. never w^kes ua lol'e our iioneiH-

and delica.y.]
want of elegnnt de[it

cency.
Your papers. wouM te chargrabk

'

dfttrmhaleS]
indufinrre.

Tlie'rays of the farpe colour'were by turns tranf*
mitted at one thick nefs,. and rcfleiied at another

^-J^^ \jndi^(nJai;(e, f r.
in and dci>e>tdeiice.'\

confrcml; ftatef ovt'^'Vhich non\; has power,

lo 'ovcrn ihii hjuftholiJ, and to confcctatc
faliois and fewardj of it lo the world's c^iJ. Stiruii.

V. J.

"I

ItfntPK'ND tNcy. /

to fcsd,

iNQE'LiCACr.

rt ant!
,fiiied;

.

In'O ^Pe's"* K XC.E.

Tfiy heeji^rs n«vt ivUI drink th;

'

m

irK good itntte* it quite
tn ffjll's etirsrfifh
marred vtith iuyfrnure En^'iA. .ijilum'i Sciahr,.
will find
to
hit
grief
criiick
'XlK
How^rmly thsl'c <Wf/«'.r« bind.
^wift.

"

f. !jT6t to t)e 'plotted out or eSiced,

[inddmninc, Fr.

I'ndian

MiUcr.
Fig.

n.

f ^{ofimtia, Latin.] A

plant.

I'ndian Red.

n. f.

Is a

fpecies

of ochre;

a very fine purple eailh, and of a firni,
compad texture, and great weight. Hi!l,\

I'NniCANT. ^,^'.

[/;/.//(•««/,

ine; jiointingout;

that

Latin.]

Show-'

which diredj

what IS to be done in any difeafc.

r»

ND

1

I

m'NDTCATE. *. a. [,W>«. Latin.]
1.

To fliow

2.

[In phyiick.]

;

dicath,

Mark

;

To point oat a remedy.

from W/'f O.Latin.]
token fign note
;

;

;

Bacon* i Bjfxys.

Uy an equal hUffetency for all truth, 1 mean,
not to%iog it as fucb» before wr know it to be true.

A Mrfcft iniifftrfncy in the mind, not determinable by its lad judgmcnti would be as great an
imperteAion as the want of indifferency to a£l, or
Locke.
not to atf^, till determined by the will.
Thofc who would borrow light from cxpoittors,
Confult either only thoTc who have the good luck to
bethought found and orthodox, avoiding thofe ot
different fentiraents; or el fc with ifiJt^ercney looV.
Locke.
into notes of all commentator*.

fymptom.

The frequent Hops ihcy mjkc in the moft convenient places, are a plain ixjicalim of their weariAJdifon.
jjcfs.
think that our AiccelTeJ art * pliin inJicathn

We

Atlnhxry.
of the divine favour towards us.
*. [In ptiyfic] Indication is of four kinds

:

and palliative, as it direfls what is to be done to
continue life, cutting off the caufe of an
approaching difteraper, curing it whilft it
prefervative, curative,

vital,

is adluall)- prefent, or leffening its effe<Ss,

2.

is a natural indkalion of a liquid diet.

J.

that faw him conclude that the diftcmper had feixed
Bentlty.
him ?
_

^. Explanation ; difplay.
Thefe be the things that govern nature princiand without which you cannot make any true

principal bond of

The verb is formed in a eertiici manner to affirm
deny, or interrogate; which formation, from the
principal ufe of it, is called the indicative mood.
darkens Latin Grammar
indicatiie.]

Thefe images, foimed in the brain, are indica-

indifference is

its

.

differens,
1.

we

infti-

time had been done

but

fide.

fpecics of government equally lawlul, he docs not
think them eijually expedient, or for e>cry couorry

Sliatefp.

2. Equally; impartially.
They may truly and indiffiremly minilttr juftice.

Neutral; not determined on «ither

Unconcerned; inattentive;

iMte,

regardlcfs.

indifferent.

Rcgeri.

Not to have fuch difference ns that the
one is for its o«'n fake preferable

to the

other.

The nature of things Indifferent is neither to be

thereof, the indiSien fliould be made life

commanded not ttjrbidden, but left free and arbitrary.

of,

rliat,

by which to reckon and date

Jan.

I.

Isui'KFFHSNCE.Jn.
?«.
I.vdi'fferhncv,
Neutrality;

\

/ \iiidiffennce,
[''

fufpenfton ;

Fr.

Latin.]
equipoife

''erentia,
indiffet

frecdom.{ioai ^xoiikcs on citker iide.

Mocker.

their

years, which hath its cpoclia, J. D, 31^,

3.

Ciiftoms, which of themftlves are indlfftTtnt in
othtr kingdoms became exceediiifily evil in this realm,
by rejlon of the niconveoicixics which tallowed

thereupon.

Daviej.
Thmigh at firft it wa> fret, and in ray choice
whether or no 1 Owu'd piiblilh thefe difcourles; yrt,
the poMicition btu^ once rcfalvcdf the dedication

•Msnot fo iW/j/f«i-«f,

Common r raver.
In a neutral ftate;. without with or averfion.

One thing was all to you, and your fondiicfs made
you indiffers-rn to every thing elfe.
Timp/e.
It was a law of Solon, that any perfoo who, in
the civil commotions ot the republick, remained
neuter, or an indifferent fpcc^atorof the contending
parties, Ihould be condenined to perpetual haniihment.
Adai/cn's J-'reeii./der.
But how indifferent foever man may be to eternal
haj'pinen, yet lurely to eternal mifery none can be
3.

Swift.

indifferently.

inftead

;

Though a church-of-England-maii thinks e.cry

Set hottoor in one eye, atid death i' th' other,

Rifturb man's reft ; Cato knows neither of them :
Indifferent in his choice to deep or die.
Addifm.

2.

Addifon.

obligation

Let guilt or fear

tuted by Conftantine the Great, is properly a cycle of tributes, orderly difpofed,
for fifteen years, and by it accounts of
Afterwards, in
that kind were kept.
memory of the great viftory obtained by
Conftantine over Mezenyus, 8 Cal. Oft.
312, by which an entire freedom was given
to Chriftianity, the council of Nice, for

the honour of Conftantine, ordaineil that
the accounts of years fhould be no longer
kept by the Olympiads, which till that

\tMf indifferently ta them all, fo as with eijual fa.
Newton.
cility to be tinged with any ot them.
Were pardon extended indifferently to all, which
of them would tiiink himlelt under any p^irticular

in-

Lat.]

of truth.

Bacon.

The indiaion,

Mortimer.

wine indiffaeru clear.

their

Being Indifferent, we Ihoutd receive and embrace
opinions according aa evidence gives the atteftation

and a denunciation and indiHiDn of a war, the war
2. [In chr.inology.]

me of fuch things, that it were bcltei that
iib.ikeff. Hamlet.
jny mother haJ not borne me.
This will raife a great fcum on it, and leave your

take away our oyvn
Honker.

Incline to it or no.'

tr./. [ifrdi^ion, Fr. /WlVi»,Lat.]

large.

lam myM( indifferent honeft; but yet I could
accufe

Doth his roajelty

deriva-

Declaration ; proclamation.
After a legation ad res rrprtertdas, and a refufal,
is left at

In the fame fenfe it has the force of an
adverb.

6.

INDI'FFERENT. adj. [indijirent, Fr. in-

tives

I.

if

He fecmt indifferent.

Indi'ction
».

removed,

liberty.

tivelj of the diae fpecies with thofe of fcnfe. Gretii,

and

fome higher duty remove the

difference that fuch things have in themfelves:

In fuch a manner as (hows or betokens.

Sec Indite,

Who would excel, when few can make a left.
Uryden.Betwixt indiff'rent writing and the bctV?
This has obliged me to publilh an indiffcteni colle^ion of poems, for fear of being thought the authof
I'rian
of a worle.
There is not one of thefe fubjeih that would
not fell a very indifferent paper, could 1 think of
gratifying the publick by fuch mean and bafe meAddifon.
thods.

adv.
[indtfferenthf
no moral or phyfical rea- Indi'fferektlv.
Latin.]
fon preponderates ; Hate in which there is
1. Without diftinftion; without preference.
no difference.
Whitenefs is a mean between all colouri, having
The choice is left to our difcretlon, except a

cation.

Indict.

Or be lefs read than deep CalTclius
Yet this indiff'rent lawyer is ertccm'd. K'^fccmmon.

be frighted with
the French king and the Pretender once a-ycar: the
want of obfcrving this nccclTary precept, has proArbuthnot.
duced great ///(y/^rf/nr*' in the vulgar.

A certain modification
[In grammar.]
of a verb, exprefling alfirnwtion or indi-

[from

an improper and colloquial ufe,

4. State in which

;

Inoi'cativeIY. adv.

is

K counfelior, or pleader at the bar.
May want MeilUU's pow'rfiil eloquence^

The people of England Ihould

analyfis, and indication of the proceedings of nature.
Qac(*n^s Natural Hijiory.

J,

This

S%u:ft.

pally,

Paflable; having mediocrity ; of a middling ftate; neither good nor worft.
efpecially when applied to perfons.
Some things admit ot mediocrity:

Addifon*

Indifference^ clad in wifJom's guife,
All fortitude of mind fupplies
For how can ftony bowels melt.
In thofc who never pity felt ?
S-wift.
He wilt let you know he has got a clap with as
much indifferency 3ii he wouldapleceof public news.

Da-uirt.

confanguinity.

e.

the indi^^ence of ftrangers, but with the vigilanca
of thofe who travel through the counti-y ot an enemy.
Kogert,

^

am a moft poor woman, and a ftranger.

Barn out of your dominions; h-nnng here
No judge indiff'rent, and no more alTunnce
Slaleff,
Of e<jualfriendlli;ri and proceeding.
There can hardly be an indifferent trial had between the king »>d the fubjccl, or between party
and patty, by rcafon of this general kindred and

A place which we muft pafs through, not only with

If a perTon that had a fair dVate in re\rrfion,
(hould be aflured by fome (kilful phyfician, that he
would inevitably fall into a difeafethat vwnid totally
*y i if, I
deprive him of his underfta«ding and •,
fay. upon a certain belief of this indications the man
(hould appear overjoyed at the news, would not all

IvDt'CATlVB. adj. \indicati<vus , Lat.]
pointing out.
1 . Showing ; informmg

1

ImpartiaHty.

importance.

AJcbam,

one.

Indijftrencc cannot but be criminat; when it is
conv^rlant about objeds which are fo £ar from being
of an indifferent nature, that they are of the highell

Difco very made ; intelligence given.

beiiv

Luke,

determine.

cernednefs.

Arhutbr.at

it

4. In^partial ; difinterefted.
Metcalfe was- partial to none, but indifferent tA
all; a mallet for the whole, and a father 10 everf

Negligence ; want of afitftion ; uncon-

3.

N D

mantion only at my coi:j<Aurri

Indifferent to the matter which way the learned flian

Read the book with iniiffertncy and judgment,
and thou canll not but greatly commend it.

•r taking off fome of its fymptoms before
it can be wholly removed.
The depravation of the inHruments of maftica»ion

.

I
Tliis I

diScrcnt ptrfotii, than to matte aa ijtdiffcrencj by
putting in thufe that are fltrong on both fides.

to point out.

See ItTDlCATIOH.
Indica'tiok. n.f. [initicatiotr, French; inI.

N D

to cHsiIct of committees it is bcUer UcKuTe 'm-

Smth.

And I will look on death indifferently,
4..

Not well; tolerably; paflably

;

Hbakefpe

middling.

A moyl& will d:aw indiffrtnlly well, and carry
CarcM,

great buriViens.

hope It may indifferently entertain your lordihi,
^'^^^
at ai) unbending hour.
An hundred and fifty of their beds, fdwn together,
kept me but wry indiffeumly-ivoui the ftoor.
Gulliver' t Travtll.
I

1'nd:cencf.. ) *. /.

[indirt'Ce,

Fr.

di.

I'.NDIOBN'CY. J
gentia^ Latin-]
Wamt;
penury poverty.
Where there is happinefs, thtrf matt not be rWfgmey, or want of any due comforts of life.
;

Burnet' J Theery^
For ev'n that indigence, that brings nw low.
Makes me ihyfclf, and him above to know. Dryden.
Athens woifhipped (/od with temples and fa*
critices, as if he needed habitation and fuftenancc
and that the hrathcns had luch a mean appreh«nf on
about the indigency of their gods, appears from
Bentley,
Ariltophanet and Lucian.

I^^Dl'cE^•0l.s. adj. [indigene 'yt.indigena,
Native to a country; originally
Lat.]

produced or bom in a region.
Nrjtoej

IN rr
• #***^/grtiBt«i' proper naiives ot

Amf rtca

wondert'bi to obfeive one cieiture,, thai h
mankiuJ, inJigenclis to fo many differeht ci'tnaies.

S'. ,-^t

,,.,.-.

Aiiutbnot.

i'NOIGENT. edi

Antl all irtdign and bafe adverfities

Make head againft my eftimaiion.

Indi'gn.^nt.

[iadigent, Fr. indigem,

1. Poor; needy; neceffitoas.
Chiriryconfiih in relieving the iiiJlgnl. A.idijon.

wanting; with of.
f, la want;
iRejoieC)

..'

O Albion, lever'dfroai the wor!d,

.ByTiimre's wife indoigcttce t iW/gfM
^ndthtogirom wiihoul.

>
,V

Phillips.

iS.ico?!.

not

;

1 his mifs, or indigrjiej matter, or chaos, created
the beginning, wjs without the proper form,
Rjfrigb.
which it afterwards acquired.
Befwe ihc fcas, and this tctrcftrial bill,
One was the face of nimre, if a fjte;
Viydeit.
Kalhcr a rude and rWi^./ici/ mafs.
is not
X, Not formed, or ihaped. ladigefl
in

now in ufe.

AscrooVted in thy

tibAff.

Not well contidercd and mcthodifed.
ot indigrjied prayers,

The political creed of ilie high-pitjiciplcd men
fcts the piotcllani fuccelVion upon ail. jier loumtation
t.'iore

jL.

The effeft of anger.

If heav'ns have any grievous plague in ftore,
Let them hurl down ihsir indignjti^^n
Sijh/p.
On thee, thou troublcr of the world.
Indi'gnity./t./. [mdigm'tai , from iiidignuj,

Lat. iiidiguiie, Fr.] Contumely; contemptuous injury ; violation of right accompanied with infult.

dignity of bis carriage, to any thing unbefctming

Drydtn.

MagnifiLenl this world, and earth his feat,
Him lord pronount'd ; and, indignity

His wound was iniigifi^d in\ infl.imed.^fT/J'w.iJj.

Subje^ed to his fervice angel-wings,
4 Ai.d flaming minilVis, to watch and tend

O

'1 heir earthly

Eggs are the mol> nourilliing and exalted of all
aoimal food, and moll indigeftible : no body can di|eft the fame fuanlity of lh<m as of other food.
Arbulbntt on Ditt.

»./.

\indigefkn, Fr. from

in and di^rftion ]

A morbid weakncfs in the
want of concoftive power.

ftomach;

»» The ftate of meats unconcofted.
The fumes of ifidig-^Jiion may injifpofe men to
thought, as well as to difeafes otxtangcr and pain.

Milton.

charge.

He does not fee how that mighty paflion for the

not convertible to nutriment.

'

King ChaiUs.

Man he made, and for him built

;

I.

'

royfelf.

IwDlc t'sT JBLE. fl<^'. [Irom in and dtgijliNot conquerable in the ftomach
blt'\

II

Bilhpps and prelates could not but have bleeding
hearts to behold a perfoo of fo great place and wortli
Hooker.
conl>rained to endure lo foul indigniiiri.
No emotion of pallion tranfportcd me, by the in'

Not brought to fuppuration.

iNncE'sTios.

church can well conlill with thofe indignities and
Sivijt.
that contempt men bellow on the clergy.

To more exalted glories born.
Ptittifon.
Thy mean indignities I fcorn.
I'ndico. n. J. \jndicum, Lat.] A plant,
by the .Americans called anil. In the
middle of the flower is the ftyle, which
afterwards becomes a jointed pod, containing one cylindrical feed in one parti
tjon, from which indigo is made, which
is ufcd in dying for a blue colour.

To point out

;

-v.

a.

[indigito, Lat.j

At though there were a feminality of uime, we
we behold therein the anatomy of

cm

thereby ntJiriiatt their afevery panicle, and
Brnua'x ymlgar Einun.
fcOuins.
ate not to indigiiatt the pant Iranfmiltent.

We

Harvey.

I«DICITATION. n. /. [from indigilate.]
The aft of poiiwing out or fticwing, as
by the finger.
Which things I conceire no obfcure indigiimion ol
provi i^n«'

Indire'ct.

M(.rt againjt Aibtijm.

Indi'ON. adj. [indiguey Fr. iriUignut, Lat.]
h Ur>wotthy; undcferving.
Where there is a kingdom that is altogether unable or indign to govern, is it iult for another nation,
tikat is Civil cr policed, to fubtlue tbem ?

Bacen.

\indirta,

adj.

IwDIRE'erLY. adnj. [from indireii.\
1. Not in a right line ; obliquely.
2. Not in exprefs terms.
which continues hio

Still (he fupprclTes the name,

doubts and hopes; and at

Ihe /ad/Vrfl/y men-

laft

BnxMt,
Unfairly; not rightly.
He bids you then refign
Your crown and kingdom, indireSilyhtM
From him Ihe true challenger. Shakefp Henry V,

tions it.

3.

He that takes .ir.y thing trom his ncigliboiir, which
own revenge or

was jullly

foileited, to

avarice,

tied to repentance, but not to relfitotioii :

is

his

I'atisfy

becaufe I took the forfeiture indiriffly, I •am aiifwerable to God for my unhandfome, unjuit, or unchariT.jyior.

table circomftances.

Indire'ct NESS. »./. [/« und direaK/fi,}
1.

Obliquity.

2.

Onfaimefs; difhonefty

Lnuis'cernible.

;

fraudulent art.

adj. [in and

dij^trniblt.^

Not perceptible ; not difcbverable.
Speculation, which, to my dark foul,
Depriv'J of reafon, is as inJifierniblt
As colours to my body, wanting light.

Denbenri

Indisce'rnibly. Wta [from ind:fctrmhie.\
In a manner not to be perceived.
Indisce'rptible. adj. \ju and difcerp-

Not to be feparated; incapable
of being broken or dcftroyed by diflblution oF parts.
Indiscerptibi'lity. « /. [from- indijcerftible. ] Incap«bility of diffolution.
InoiscovehV. k J. [;'« and diffO'very.'\.
The ftate of being hidden. An unufual
lible.]

word.
The ground of this afTertion was the magnifying
efteem of the ancients, ariling from the indifrovery
Brois'rt'^
of its head.

adj. \jndifcret, Fr. in and
Imprudent; incautious; incon-

Indiscreet,
dijcriet.l

fiderate ; injudicious.
Why then
Are mortal men fo fond and indifcreet^
So evil gold to leek unto their aid ;
.\nd having not complain, and liaving it upbraid ?

Miller.

Spenf-T.
If thou be among the Indifcreet obferve the time j
but be continually among men of underllanding.

Lat.]

to (hew by the bngers.

Amifjuity etpreflcd numbers by the ftngers: the
depreffir.g this nngcr,- which in the left hand implied
but fix, in the right hand indigiiatfd C\t hundred.
brcftujt'j yulgar Errours.
fftoliftily conceive

Diflionell practice.
Not ufed,
I had rather coin my heart than wring
From the hard hands of peafants their viie trarti.
By any imiiteliion.
Shakefp. Julius Cajfr.

Fr. indireHus,

'Tempif.

it INDl'GITATE.

By indireElions And directions out. Shakefp. Hamlet.
2.

2 Kings.

Not concotled in the ftomach.
Drt:ams are bred
From riling fumes of indigrfed food,

5.

who pr'ofefs
Hviift.

revolution principles.

And thus do we, of wifdom and of reach,
With wiiiJIaces, and with efTays of byas.

There was great indignation againd Ifrael.

they oftentitres

difgrace the mrorthittt part >*Chril1iaii duly tn^virds
Uiyotrr.
God.

than all the ixdigjltd ftheinei of

line.

The anger of a fuperiour.

2.

By irkfom; dcf.rmitics, through endlefs and fcnfcJefi effiilions

.

Sulpcnd your indignation againft my brother, till
you derive better tcllimoiiy of his intent. Sbakfp.
Fiom thofe officers, warm with indignaiioit at
the infoler.ces of that vile rabble, came wordsof great
Ciarend^jK.
contempt.
But keep this fwelling indignMian down,
Koiue.
And let your cxilcr reafon now prevail.

3.

Set a f Jrm upon that iniig'JI projciS,
.ShaSfJf. King John.
So (hapelefs and lo rude
Hence, heap o' wraih, foul inJi^tJted lumf ;

3.

I

I. Anger mingled with contempt or difgnft.

regularly difpofed.

inaiiiiers as liiy iliape.

TicktI.

N D G N .^'t o N ».f. [indigaalioa, Fr. indigI

1

natio, Lat.]

['W'f^<'._
"'^Jindigejii.s, Latin.]

Not feparated into diftinit orders

1.

I

French ;

Ikdi'gest.
\
Indi'cesteD. )

I>fDlRE'cTtON. *./. [in and </;;rAV«.]
Oblique means ; tendency not in a ftrait

An-

!

To fingle fighi ihc fairy prince defies.

Such bodies have the tangible parts injigent of
tnoifture.

\^iiidigria>is,'L,it'\

Arbuthmt and Poft.
and inaignant Martin.
Wh.it rage that hour did -Mbion'sfoul pofiefs,
Let chiefs imagine, and let lovers guefs
He ftrides indignant, and with haughty cries

Void ; empty.

J.
":

Shaktfp.

gry ; raging; inflamed at once with anger
and difdain.
He icourg'd with many a ftroke th" inJigratit
Mil ion.
waves.
The lullful monfter fled, purfuej by the valourous

Ut.]

'

ndj.

Jxiittlt dealing will be ditcover'd «ii« timear
other, and then he Icfes his rcpiitaiion.
liUoifn.

This

2. Bringing indignety ; difgracef aK
is a word not in ufe.

I

is

i N ts

N r>

I

^W«gT»««'i»ere all tr^rifporKd from hft'ity,, tni lit t

;•'

Ecclef.

Notftrait; not reflilinear,
z. Not tending othcrwife than obliquely or
confequentially to a purpofe ; as, an indi7.

rea accufation.
3. Wrong; improper.

job on juftice hath afpeifioirs flung,

'

4. Not fair ; not honeft.

Think you, that any meant under the fun
Daniel.
Can aflecure (oindireO a courfe ?
Thofe things which they do know they may, upon
fundry indir4£i coiifideratioiis, let pats ; and although
themfelves do not err, jet may ihcy deceive othcis.
ILcker.
that they who to live well
pity and (hamc
I

Eoter'd fo tair, Ihauldtutn aiiiic, Is trcad
Paths iadirtfl.

Vol.. I.

V

tion ; without judgment.

And fpoken indifcreetly with h's tongue.

1 he tender prince
Would fain have come with me to meet your grace
But by his mother was perk>rce with-hcld;
Fy, what an indireil und peeviOi courfe
Is this of hers >
Sij/tejf. Riciardlil.

O

Indiscree'tly, adi). [from ifidijcreet.\
Without prudence ; without confidcra-

Milun.

Sandyt.

Let a great pcrfonage undertake an aiflion paflionately, let him manage it indifcreetly, and he (halj
Taylor^
have enough to Hatter himi

Ikdiscre'tjon. n. f. [indifcretion, Fr. in
and difcreti(in.'\ Imprudence ; raflinefs ;
inconfideraiionv
Indifcretion fometimes ferves us well.

When our deep plots do fail,

Shakefp. Hamlet.
His oflinccs did proceed rather from negligence,
raOmtft, or other indifretion, than from any mali-

Hay-ward^
cious thought.
Loofc papers have been obtaintd from us by the
importunity and divulged by the indifcretion of
tnends, although reilntuicd by piomifes.

6N

Sivife,

iNoiti)

N D

I

IxDIiCKr'MlKATE.

"linguimable; not marked
Latin.] Undiftinguiiliable;
-with any note of Jiftinftlon.
Indiscri'minately. adv. [irotaindi/crirm'nate.]

Oihexi ufe dtfamatory diftourfe purely for love of
talk; wliofe fpeech, like a flowing- current, beari
iwijr ixJifcriminuttty whatever lies in its way.
Gavcrumtnt of the Tongue.
deliroy the bliieucfs

fells,

I

; confofedi
That which is now a horfe, even with a thought,
The rack dillimns, and makes it iniiflinCI
Sbaiiff,
As water is in water.

"

Rogcts.

which could admit of no qucf^ion.

Inoispk'nsableness. ft. J. [irom ittdi/pett-

They queftioned a duty thatiiadbeen indiffutably
Hcuri.

granted to fomany preceding kings.

[in and dlffolvable.]

An indlJiinSf regard.
Shakeff.
Indisti'nction. n.f. [from indifiinil.^

mifapplicaiion of (he a£t of one unto another, hath

Metals, corroded with a little acid, turn into ruft,

neceflity.

ter; and this

and Indijfolvahle in waearth, imbibed with more acid, betaftclefs

Obligatory ;

2.

nation.

An indipinliion of all peiibnt, or equality of all

not to be broken ; binding

orders, is far from being agreeable to the will of Cod.

for ever.

Sfrjtt.

Depofilion and degradation are without hope of
any remilTion, and therefore the law ftiles them an
itidijfoivaile bond ; but a cenfurc, a diffolvablc bond.

Indisti'nctly, adv. [from indifi/iff.]

Indissolu'bility.

It has aftrange efficacy to indifftft

the heart to

What hoops hold this mafs of

preflure together, from whence fteel has its firmncfs,
and the parts of a diamond their harducfs and indif-

-ftnAions.
GlanvlUe.

'^iftemperature oiindi/p^/ed organs.

a.

Indisso'luble.

Though it weakened,

diffojed than fick, and did no ways difabic him from

To make unfavourable

ft

with

toivards.

Clarertd'tn,

it

unpleafant; that is owing only

- to the injiffojediufi of our own hearts.
Decay of Piety

liiDjSPOSiTlON. n.f. \iudi/pofitioit,]ix.itottt
hdifpoft.^

i. Diforder of health ; tendency to fickfnefs ; flight difcafe.
The king did complain of a continual infirmity of
body, yet rather as an indfpojition iu health, (nan
H.tywaTd.
any let fickoefs.
I have known a great fleet lofe great occalions, by
was
neither
while
he
admiral,
»n indffofthn of the
well enough to cxercifej nor ill enough to leave the
'
Temple.
,-<ommand.
Wildom is ftill looking forward, from the tirft
indffifnoHt into the progrefs of the Uileafc.
L' Eflrange.
His life feems to have been prolonged beyond its
ratural term, under thofc indiJl>ofuiont wrhicli hung
Addijon' s Freeboldir.
upon the latter part of it.
'.

Difinclination ; diflike ;

with

to

or to-

The indifpfition of the church of Rome :o reform
be ftay unto us from performing our duty

Hiikir.

to Cod.

Far more comfort it were for us, to be joined with
you in hzniz oi trtdijfi^luble love and amity, to live
as if our perfons being many, our fouls were but one.

Indistu'rbance. n.f. [in and difiurb.]
Calmnefs freedom from difturbance.
What is called by the Stoicks apathy, and by the
;

Scepticks indiflurbance, feems all but to mean, great
tranquillity of mind.
Temple.

Fr. individuiis, Latin.]

Separate

I .

from others of the fame fpe-

cies; fingle; numerically one.

obliged to be kind to all, fliould behave ihemfclves
fo contrary to fuch heavenly intlmAiont, tuck indif-

viduals.

Indi'ssolubliness. n.f. [(wm indiffolu-

Bacon,

They prefenf us with images more perfefl than the

South.

foluble obligations.

Dryden's Dufrtfnoy.
any individual.
Muft the whole man, amazing tiiought return

life, in

!

ble. \

Indiflblubility ; refiftancc to fepara-

To the cold marble, or contrafted urn

tion of parts.

And never (hall thofe panicles agree,

adj,

[from

Lies in three words, health, peace, and competence.

Hale.

Pom,

itdiffoinble.]

We fee each circumllance of art and individuaJ of

compofition.

Indissolubly.

nature fummoned together by the extent and fecup*
diiyof his imagination. Pope's Prrfucc lo the Iliad.
It would be wife in them, as indhiidual and private mortals, to look Sack a little upon the IVorms
they have raifed, as well as thofe they have efcapcd.

In a manner refilling all feparation.
On they move
nor obvious hill,

Nur liraii'ning vale, nor wood, nor dream divide
MUton.
Thtir perfect ranks.
The remaining alhes, by a further degree of hrr,

Indijjolublyf'xm: from Dubrisfoulh

To nor;hcrn<)rcadcs.
iNDispu'rABi.E. ndj. [in and dif(iutahlt.'\ 2. For fvcr obligatorily.
Uncontrovertible ; incontcftable; erident; Ikuisfi'nct. adj, [iudifiittd,
.

dfUnaut, Lat.J

Prior,

Know all the good that ;«i/(V;V«i>/j find.

ficiUy diliolvablc, might have held, by the Divine
Will, a Hate of immortality and indijfolubltnejs oi\i\%

1.

I

That were in life this individualhc !

Adam, though confiliing of a compofition inlrin-

more and more of a general indfjnjition
Antrburj.

tovnardt believing.

INDIVI'DUAL. adj. [individu, individuel,

Neither is it enough to confult, fecundum genera,
what the kind and charafler of the perfon fbould be;
for the molt judgment is QieWo in the clioice of indi-

They might jiiltly wonder, that men fo taught, fo

may be ir.dijfolubly united into glafs.
They willingly un'ite,

certain.

and according to the indijiinEinefs of this pidure, the
Ntivton.

objeft will appear confuted.

Hooker.

Thexe is the fuprcme and /W/^s/Ki/^confanguiniiy
between men, of which the heathen poet faith we are
Bacon's Holy H''ur.
all his generation.

The mind, by every degree of alfe^ed unbclirf,
,f onttads

of futficient refraSion, will not converge to the bottom of the eye, but beyond it, and by confequence,
paint in the bottom of the eye, a confufcd pi^uie;

able.

Indijfolubly firm ;

ivardi.
tierfelf, murt

Old age makes the cornea and coat of the chryftallinc humour grow flatter : fo that the light, tor want

not to be loofed.

it is not any innate harfhnefsin piety that renders

2.

Fr. in-

Binding for ever: fubfilling for ever;

2.

otdered ftate.
the fjrft effays of

[indiffoluble,

yet it, inlUad of
;
a" tantillum of the red elixir be mingled
will
be
(o indijfoluble,
union
fatum,
their
with the
that there is no poflible way of feparating the difl'jfed
Beyle.
elixir from the fixed lead.

indiffoftd.^

of unfitnefs or difinclination ; dif-

adj.

Lat. inanidijjoluble.'^

the gold,

ferfons or the principles of Calvin'; difciples.

;State

There is an uncvenncrs or indijiineinefs in the ftyle
of thefe places, concerning the origin and form of the
Burnet's Tijeory.
earth.

may be fevered almolt unaltered

The king was fufficiently indiffoftd touardi the

inbisposEDNESj. tt. /. [from

Confufion; uncertainty; obfcurity.

When common gold and lead are mingled, the lead

_
;

Indisti'nctness. n.f. [hom indijlinil.\

Reftfting all feparation of its parts ; firm ;

1

tValion.

ftudying.

5.

diffolubilis,

yet it made him rather in-

Making trial tiieieof, both the liquors foaked inBrown's Vulgar Err.

dijlinflly through the bowl.

Locke.

Perpetuity of obligation.

To diforder nightly with regard to health.

4.

matter in fo clofc a

folubilily,

aftings by the
_ ] frhe foul is not now hindered in iti

Without being diftingni(hed.

2.

nefs ; ftablenefs.

To diforder; to difqaalify for its proper

3.

[indiffolubilite,

Refiftancc to a diffolving power ; firm-

I.

Houth'i Sermons.

religion.

«. /.

uncertainly; without dc-

finitenefs or difcrimination.
In its fides it was bounded difiin£)ly, but on its
ends confufedly and indijiinflly, the light there va.
Nriuton's Optics,
nifiiing by degrees.

Fr. from indiffoluble.^

farther than it prepares or indiffofes M%f'ir

Confufedly;

1.

Ayliffe't Parergrm.

Aittrhury.
the enjoyment of another.
Z. 'To difmcKne ; to make averfe : with to.

Omifllon of difcrimination ; indifcrimi-

2.

:

" 'Nothing can be reckoned good or bad to us in this

Brov/n's Vulgar Errours.

made fome doubt.

Ne-uion.

comes a metallick fait.

reraiflion ; ncccflarily.
Every one mull look upon himfelf as hdifptttfably
Addijon.
obliged to the praftice of duty.

.life, any

Confufion ; uncertainty.
The ;W^;nc7/oa of many of the fame name, or the

1

Indiffoluble; not leparable as to its parts.

1

which is an earth

3:iiNDlSP0'SE.a..a. [mdijpofcr. Fr.j
with fir.
•I ."To make unfit

Ev'n till we make the main and ih' aerial blue

Without oppofition.

Imdisso'lvable. adj.

ffallt.

Not exadtly difcerning.
We throw out our eyes for brave Othello,

2.

Brovin.

tably certain what death Ihe died.

2.

/able.} State of not being to be fpared ;

Indispe'»sa«lv. ad-v. [from tndifpenfaWithout difpeniaiion; without
i/e.]

our fcnfei, our ideas of ihcfc little bodies became ob(cure and indiJUnU.

dently.

be remitted ; not to be fpared; neceffary.
Rxks, mountains, and caverns, againft which
thefe ejceptions arc made, are of inili/fcnfatU ufe and
Ifaiidviard.
ritcelSty, as well to earth as to man.

When we fpeak of the infinite divifibility of matter,
we keep a very clear and didiiitl idea of divifion and
divifibility ; but when we come to parts too fmall tor

1

The thing itfclf is queftionable, nor is it indiffu-

/ X

But indiJlinU, and neither fweet nor clear. Dryien.

;

Indispu'tably. adv. [from ittdijfutalle.]
Without controverfy ; certainly ; evi-

Boylt.

it.

~

She warbled in her throat,

And lun'd her voice to many i merry note;

certainty; evidence.

of theinfufioaofour wood ; and li<|uors, /W^r;«/^matily, that abound with fulphureous falts, tellore

INDISPETSISABLE. adj JJrench.] Not to

The ftate of being indifputable

lable.']

N D

Not plainly marked

1

Indisputa'bleness. n.f. [fmm indiffu-

Without diftinftion.

Liquors, ftrong of acul

N D

I

.There if no maxim in politicks motf Ml/fatahle, than that a nation (hould have many honours
10 referve for thofe who do national fervices. Addif.
The apollle afTerts a clear indfftitahie conclufion,

{iadi/crimhatut,

aJj.

The obiefl of any particular idea Is called an inii.
viduah, fo Peter is an individual rcan, London is
an individual city,
H-'att j^

Boyte.

Phillips,

z.

Undivided; not to be parted or disjoined.

To give thee being,
Fr. /* and

1

lent

Out of my fide to thee, ncarell my heart,
Subllantial

life,

to have thee by

my fide

Hcncciotlh ia individual CoU':<: dear.

Milfn.
long

N D

I

\ N I>

'

Lon» eWrnrty (hall ^rtet oar blift

.Wuhan 'WrwVWktls.

A///M/I.

To WDCVCTMNATF. v. a. \t«di>nrin;r,
j
o\A

Under his great viccgen;nt rtign abide
as one iaJivUual foul,
Milium.
Tor ever happy.
Individua'lity. It. I [from indrvidual.^

Under a mafter that difcourfcd excellently, and
took much delight in i'.dolliitiaiing his young un.
experienced favourite, Buckingham had obtained a
quick conception of fpeaking very gracefully and
Clarendon.
pertinently.

Separate or diftinfl exiftence.

He wvild tell his inftruftor, that all men '.vere
not fingular: that indviduailty could hardly be pre-

They that never peept beyond the common belief,

dicated %i any man ; for it was commonly faid, that
a man is not the fame he was, and that madmen are

in which their cafy undcrflandings were at firll //rdneinnaiid, are fttongly affured of the truth of their

Arbutbr.'it.

befide themfelves.

Isdivi'duailY. adv. [from indiiiidual/]
nuI. With feparate or diftlnft exiftence

Indoctrina'tion.

n. /. [from indoSriInftruftion ; information.
Although poflulatcs are very accommodable unto

nnte.'\

merically.

How Ibould that fubiift folitarlly by itfelf, which

junior indb3rittationi, yet ar« thefe authorities not
to be embraced beyond the minority of our intel-

hath no fubrtance, hut individually the verv fame
Hooktr.
whereby others fubfift with it ?

z.

Not feparably

;

GlafTVilU.

receptions.

:

Bnxun.

leiSuals.

I'ndolence. T «. /.

incomrannicably.

dare not pronounce him omnifcious, that being
an attribute indiviJucUy proper to the godhead, and
I

incoiamunicable to any created fubftance.

I'mpolency./

As there muft be ind;Irncy where there is happi-

Huknvlll.

To diftinguifh from others of
Latin.]
the fame fpecies ; to make fmgle.
Life is iitdimJuuted into infinite numben, that

Latin;
French.]

[in zni dolfo,

indtltnce,

Burntt.

nefs, fo thert muft not be indigency.

not a matter both of his

Drydtti.
Spanilh nation, roufed from their ancient
inMence and ignorance, feem now to improve trade.

i>

chara£ters thai diftiiiguilh and indivijuale him from
Drfdtii.
.

all other writers.

Individua'tion. »./. [from wdtvidiuite.]
'Ihat which makes an individual.
What is the principle of individuaii'.n ? Or what
u it that makes any one thing the fame as it was

oxiftence.

Ikdivi'nity.

and

[in

». /.

Want of divine power.

dhiinilj^.']

2.

Carelefsly;

lazily;

o/.

a.

that

cannot be
degree

it

Addifuv.
[indutare, Latin.]

To

Ikdo'ciL,

adj,

[indccile,

iNbu'eiTABLE.

Indoci'lity.
dociliij.'^

iuftru£iion.

»./.

[indodlite,

Unteachablenefs;

Fr.

of

Lat.

Un-

doubted

adj.

unqueftionable ; evident ; certain in appearance ; clear; plain.
;

When general obfervations arc drawn from fo many
become certain .«nd indubitable.
Watts on tbe Mind,
thefe are jewels of knowledge.

particulars as

to

Indu'bitably.

ad'v.

[from indubitable ."]

Undoubtedly ; unqueftionably.
If we tranfport thefe proportions

/» and

refilfal

[induhitabilisi

indubitable., Fr. in and dubitable.'\

I

;

from audible to

indubitably refult from
cither a graceful and harmonious contentment.
iVtmn's Arehileclure
vilible

objefts,

there will

Bacjit.

Acidity, as it is not the natural ftate of the animal fluidsv but induced by aliment, is to be cured by
Ari^lbnet,
aliment with the contrary qualities.

To introduce; to bring into view.

6.

To exprobrate thfrir ftupidity, he inducetb the pito"
videncc of ftorks : now, if the bird had been un~
known, the illuftration had been obfcure, and (WBronvn.
exprobation not fo proper.
The poet may be feen inducing .his perfbnagfcS in
the firii lli.id, where he difcoveis (heir huinours,
interefts,

Hence appears the vulgar vanity of repofirig an in-

I.atin.]
Unreachable; incapable of being initruJled.'

ments, and it proof againft dcmonDralion iifelf.
BfniUy't ScrmoHl,

Sour things ;Wwff a contra<5^ion in the nesvcs
mouth of the ftomach, which is a

placed in the

great caufe of appetite.

They lie indrmcb'd. Shair/pjTioiliis andCregida.
adj. [in and dubiom.]
Not
doubtful; not fufpefting ; certain.

H.lrvey.

Brown.

to enforce.

To caufe extrinfically; to produce; to

5.

Indu'bious.

dubious confidence in thofe antipeftilential fpirits.

;

TWii induces a general change of opinion, concerning the perfon or party like to be obeyed by the
Temple.
grcaieft or itrongeft part of the people.

My hopes lie drown M; in many fatlulms deep

indccilii,

Thefe certainly are the fools in the text, IndKil,
intra^able fools, whofe ftolidity can baffle all argu-

To inculcate

4.

foak ; to drown.

Drydtn.

Fr.

To

cijil-

They play much upon the fimile, or illuftrative
argumentation', to induce their enthymcmes unto the
people, and take up popular conceits.

paflage inwards.

"]

.

fequential reafoning.

llll-

Sac on.

to ex-

In-divi'sibly. adv. [from itidniifible.'^
So as it cannot be divided.
Ifnjo'ciBLE. adj. [in and docib!e.'\ Unteachable; infufceptible of inftruftion.

Toofiier by way of induftion,. or

3.

inattentively;

•

as 10 accommodate itfell to all fpec.es of men.
Forbes.

"l

T« Indre'nch.- "v. a. [Itota drench.

D'gby.
natural bodies.
Here is but one indivijibie point of time obfervcd,
but one aOion performed ; yet the eye cannot compfchend at once the whole objcA.

Let the vanity of the limes be reftraincd, xvhich
the neighbourhood of oiUcr nations have induced-.
Bacon.
we ftrive apace to exceed our parteriu

Navigable rivers are indraxgbti to attain wealth.

indivijibUy but only the leaft fort of

preff a perfeA

:

As belief is abfolutely neceffary to all mankind,
the evidence for inducing it muft b.: of that natCire'

laft

of divifibility.
By atom, no body will imagine we intend

Drydett.

To produce by pcrfuafion or influense
of things.

RaMgb.
Inlet;

was furnilhed with m;my
and education;

fclf a glorious name.

fea flows.
Ebbs and floods there could be none, when there
was no indraugbttf bays, or guiphs to receive a flood.

2.

(he

with any.
Hf^vjard.
Ucfire with thee ftil! longer toxonverfc
hidifc'd me.
Baccrr.
Let not the covetous deiiga of growing rich /«^&-re you to ruin yoiu" reputation, but rather fatisfy
yourfclf with a moderate fortune; and let your
thoughts b^ wholly taken up with acquiring to your-

Calm and ferene you indoUtttly fit.

7a Indo'w.

albeit

yet would (he never be induced to entertain marriage

While Iiill'd by found, and undifturb'd by wit;

Locke.

as

This lady,

excellent endowments both of nature

lefsly.

Indivi'sible. <7(//. [indi-vifihle. Ft. ;» and
dmi/Mf.^ What cannot be broken into
fmall

but induce the vulgar fort l>like, idky conflrain th^
wifer to yield.
Hooker.

Pipe's Iliad.

of mattrrto indU/iJihility as the aculelt thought of a

fo

of perfonj.
The felf-fame argument in this kind, which doth

a chief

portion ; to enrich with gifts, whether
iNnivisiBi'LiTY. \n. /. [from indh-iSee Endow.
of fortune or nature.
State in
Jkdivi'sibleness. ( Jillf.]
Indra'oght. ». f. [in and draught.]
whidi no more divifion can be made.
1. Anopcning in the land into which the
A pcftic and morlar will as foon bring any particle

fmaller; having reached the

(7.
[induirt, Yt. induco,
Lat.]
J. To influence to any thing; to perfuadc;

To wa(l« long nighti in indolent repofe.

Not in ufe.

unto Crcclus, who being ruined by his amphibology,
and ctpoltulatmg with him, received no higher anBrnfn.
fwer thai) the eicufe ol his impotency ?

parts ;

TilNDU'CJi. 1).

So the chirurgcons
Free from pain.
fpeak of an indolent tumour.
2. Carelefs ; lazy; inattentive; liftlefs.

How openly did the oracle betray his indivlnity

mathematician.

Bacon'' s Henry V\\.

been tempted 'to \fonder how, a.noiig thtf
Edgar Aiheliiig could
fubfilt. -being then the apparent and induhitate heir
of the Saxon line.
kkotton,
1 have

2.

I'ndolently. tidv. [(torn indolent.
1. With freedom from pain;

Latin.]

jealoufies of ftate and^courr,

1.

Ill Irts

[indubUatus,

and tended dirciSly to the ditinherifon of the lin»
of York, held then the indabitate heirs of the crown

Moiifigbrikf,

t'NDOLENT. adj. [French.]

adj.

Unqueftioned; certain; apparent; evident.
\i\\z ftood upon his own title ot the houfe of Lancafter, he knew it was condemned by parliament,

The

Indi viDu'iTY. n.f. [from /WTOiV/»»r, Lat.
Tlic ftate of being an inJividiial ; fcparate

Indu'bitate.

trary.

"^'""

before ?

induiilabfy muft proceed from a fpirituil fubftattce.
Beuttty.

Hough.

luthour's language and of hiiown^v nor mull we undcrftand the language only of the poet, but his particular turn of thoughtrand expreflion,. which are the

6<les a genius to that art,

patriarchs

I appeal to ail fobcr judges, whether ourfouls "iftiy
be only a mere echo from clalhing atoms; or rath-r

I have eafe, if it may not rather be called indoltitce.

2. Lazinefs ; inattention ; liftleffnefs.
Let Epicurus give indolency as an attribute to his
godi, and place in it the happinefs of the bleft : the
Divinity which we worlhip has given us not only a
precept againft it, but his own example to the con-

M.re.
No man is capable of tranllaling poetry, who, be-

have their diftinil fenfe and pleafure.

were indiibitably invcfted with
both theie authorities.
Spra"-

Freedom from pain.

1.

Ta Indivi'duA'TK. "v. a. [from indi-ciduus,

.

to tinfture

v/ith any fcience, or opinion.

-UiMicd,

'

To inftruft;

French.]

Th«

7.

and dcdgns.

.

Pope.

To bring on; to fu'perinduce ; to effeft
gradually.
Schifm is marked out by the' jpoftle as a kind of
petrifying crime, which irduccs ihat induration to
which the fearful expectation of wrath is confei^uent.
Decay of P illy

Ikdu'cement. n.f. [from iuduce.\ Mover
to any thing ; that which
pcrfuades to any thing.

allures

or

The former inducements do now much more prevail,

when the

reafon.

-

very thing hath minillered further

Hctker.

Many induremints, befides Scripture, may lead
me to that, which if Scripture be againft, they are
•f no value,
perfuade.

6 N 3i

yet ocherwilic are ftrongly effectual to

llmker.

That

k

K©

1

I

N D

He \\m

Milieu.

Wji not at preftiit here to lind my for.

Miltcn.

[from

before it; if it be a habit, it has in: as,
he indulged him/elf v/\\h a draught of 'wine ;
and, he indulged him/tlfia Jhameful drunk-

A per-

induce. ^

fuader ;

^ ennej's.

yo INDL'CT. -v. a. [induaus, Latin.]

To introduce

1.

;

A mother was wont to indulge her J.iughters lullh

to bring in.

z.

Sandjt's Travi/i.

To live like thoft that have their hope v\ another

To put into adlual poflcflion of a bene-

implies that we indulge oJiiAiii in th- gratifiAt'erbury.
cations of this life very fpirmgly.
life,

If a perfon thus inftituted,

though not irJuStd,

Indu'ction. »./.

To grant not of right but favour.

3.

)

tt.

and French.]
Privilege or exemption.
[Ital.

f.

Ancient

[indiiilhn, Vt. itidu^io,

/
Latin.]
_
Introduftion ; entrance ; anciently 'pre-

privileges,

Stones within the earth at firft are but rude earth
or clay ; and fo minerals come at lirrt of juices concrete, which afterwards indurate.

A contra^ed indurated bladder is a circumftaace
fometimcs attending on the ftone, and indeed an extraordinary duiigcrous one.
Sharp's Surgery.
Indura'tion n.f [from [indurate.']
1
The ftate of growing hard.
.

This is a notable mftance of condenfation »n<
induration, by burial uodef earth, in caves, for a
long time.
Bacon.

But linee among mankind (b few there are.

_

Who will conform to pliiloibphick fare,
And mingle fometliing of oui itmes 10 pleaTe. Dryd.

My Iriend, indulge ont labour more.

:

And feek Atrides.

3.

Schifm is marked out by the apoftle as a kind of
which induces that induration to
which the fearful expedlatioo of wrath is confeSuent.
Decay of Piety,
INDUS'TRIOUS. adj. [ind,firiet,x, Fr.
petrifying crime,

Pope't Odyjfey.

Yet, yet a moment, one dim ray ot light
Indulge, dread chaos and eternal night

from thegofpels, it cannot be proved from

he aft of hardening.
01)duracy ; hardnefs of heart.
'1

2.

This much I will indulge tht.- ;'jr thy eafe.

propofitions, we infer one general as, the
doiJtrine of the Socinians cannot be proved

To harden the mind; to fear the confcience.

:-

Dryden.

face.
Thefe ptomiles are fair, the parties fure,
And our injuaiim full of profp'rous hope. Shakc/p.
2. JnduSlion is when, from fevcral particular

Bacon's Nat. Hi/I.

That plants and ligneous bodies may indurate under
water without approacbmcnt of air, we have expert.;
ments in coralines.
Brown's Vulgar Errours.
To 1'ndur.ate, v. a.
To make hard.
i ,

1.

indulged by former ings to
theirpeople, muft not without high reafon, be revoked
tayUr.
by their fuccelTort.
The virgin trijt'ring bright, indulged the day
To the browu cave, and brulh'd the dreams away.

takes » fecond benefice, it (hall make the firft void.
Aylijf'e'i Pareigon.

.

Locke.

them well.

fice.

J

or birds ; but then they muft keep

dogs, fquirrels,

The ceremonies in the gathering were firft ;VJufifd by the Venetians.

H.immond.

Lvdu'lt.

conceflion ; to

Kogert.

one that influenctM.

n;vcr to be counted a regenerate

To fondle; to favour; to gratify with Indulto. f
fofter.
If the matter of To I'NDURATE. -v. ». [indun. Latin.]
To grow hard; to harden.
indulgence be a fingle thing, it has ivHh

2.

Inftancesappirjrofoppreflion.lo which (here appears

n. f.

it

man.

Indulge his (loth, and fatten with his fleep. Dryden.

no inducement from thccircumdanccs of the adors.

IsDu'cER.

indulgently la 11,

The laiy glutton fafe at home will keep ;

Higher degree of life ; hiiueemait ftronj
for us.
My inJurmiem hither,

ND

I

He that not only ccmmits fome a£laf lio, btitlirei

Thtt movM me to't,
To INDU'LGE. f. a. [indtilgee. Latin.]
Then mirk ih" InJucemmi. Sbthff. ttmry VIII. 1. To encourage by compliance.

Pofe.

the afts of the apolHes, it cannot be To Indu'lge. -v. n. [A Latinifm not in
ufc.]
To be favourable; to give indulproved from the epiftles, nor the book of
gence with /o.
revelations; therefore it cannot be proved
He muft not, by indulging ta one fort of reprovcfrom the New Teftament. Watts' s Logict.
able difcourfe himfclf, deleat his endeavours againft
The inquifition by injuction is wonderful hard
'Tongue.

Lat.]
Diligent; laborious; afliduous

indtijirius,
1.

:

oppofed

:

lojlothful.
Frugal and inditftrious men are commonly friendly
to the eftabliflied government.
Temfle.

;

and new
aipcriments can hardly be made but with extreme
Bactn.
caution.
for the things reported are full of fables,

Mathematical things are only cap.iblc of clear deconclufions in natural philofophy are
proved by inJxClion of experiments, things moral
by moral argunaents, and matters of fafl by credible

jnoriftration

)

Indulgency.

J

Fondnefs ;

1.

:

nilotfon.
Although the arguing from experiments and obfervations by induOion be rio demonftration of general conclufions, yet it is the beft way of arguing

Biikfr

periments.

The art or ftate of taking poflcflion of an

3.

ecclefiaftical living.

Indu'ctIVE. adj. [from indu(.'J,'\
Leading ; perfuaftve

1.

:

Milton,

Abatements may lake away infallible concludency

may be probable

and induaivt of credibility, though not of tcicii'-e.
H.i/eU Origin of Mankind.

J.

f

.

<J.

One 6tll matter all,
MUtm.
hJu'd with various forms.
3. It feeins fometimcs to be, even by good
writers, confounded with enJnu or inJinv,
to furniib or enrich with any quality or
excellence.
angel, hy whom

Cod indu'J the waters of

Bethefda with fupei natural virtue, w.is not feen ( yet
the angel's pretence was known by tlie waters.
Hoikcr.
Hi] pow'u, with dieadfiJ ilrengih endu'd.

Indvjlricus foldierfhip.
His thoughts were low :

3.

dons of the third joints throujjh.
Mere*
Obfervc carefully all the events which happen either by an occafional concurrcnct of various caufes,

Indulgences, dfpenfet, pardons, bulls.
Millon.
The fport of winds.
In purgiitory, indulgences, and fupererogatioii, the
affcrlors fecm to be unanimous in nothing but profit.

D. cay of Fie f.

Leo X. is dcfervedly infamous for his bale proiti-

Indu'strtousi.y. ad'V. [from

With habitual diligence ; not idiv.

2.

Diligently; laborioiifly ; afliduouily.

adj.

G:eat Britain was never before united under one
king, notwiihftanding that the uniting had been indujirioujly attempted both by war and peace. Bacon.
3.

Set for the purpofe;

[indulgent,

Fr.

indul-

gentle ; liberal.

Ciod has dune all for us that the mod Indulgent
Cieaior could do lor the work of his hands. Koueri.

Mild; favourable.
Hereafter fuch in ihy behalf (hall be

W-illn.
Th' Indulgent tenfi,re o( p. fterily.
7. Graiifying; favouring; giving way to:

with of.
tiryd.
The treble olJ, Indulgent of their eafe.
iNnu'LGsNTLY. iidti. [from indulge«t.'\
Without fcverity; without cenfure; without fclf rcjproach; with indulgence.

with delign.

Some friends to vice induflricufiy defend
Th':fe innocent divcrfions, and pretend
'I hit I the tricks of youth too roughly blame.
I

gens, Lai in.]

ia.iujlriouf.]

1.

Attcrhury,

K.\ii\ociQiindulginces.

;

or by the indujirious application of knowing men.
IValts on the Mind.

Sliaif/p. ilcnrj VI.

I'llcanvafs ihec.

Miltun.

Defigned; done for the purpofe.
The indtJprious perforaiion of the tendons «f
the fecond joinis of fingers and toej, draw the ten-

Favour gr.inted; liberality.

2,

Shakefpeare.

To vice indujitious', but to nobler deeds

Pope.

If all theic graciriis i«*3'i//^ffr/<'* are without any
effe^on us, we muft perilh 111 our own folly. Rogers.
^. Grant of the church of Rome, not de-

Sfinjer,

Let our juft cenfurcs
Attend the true event, and put we on

Hammond on Vundameittali.

In known images of life, 1 j;mrfs
The labour greater, as th' indulgence lefs,

Kind

things conpeople, hath fet

Timorous .ind lloihful.

tance any thing lels.

/'«-

truth of all

the original of his own
down the teftimony of the ancients truly.

that through indulgence to others, or
fondncts to any lin in themlclvcs, lubllitute for repen-

1.

to leek out the

cerning

Mi/ton.

They err,

[iudiio, Latin.}

To inveft; to clothe.

'I'lic

He himftlf, being excellently learned, and
di/Jlvious

rigour.

3.

Laborious to a particular end : oppoiite
to remijs.

Which yet like golden ore, umipe in beds,
Dryden.
Expect the warm indulgcrcy ot Iieaven,
tendernefs : oppofuc to
2. t orbearance ;

Indo'lcent.

dudlion.

2.

The glories of our ille.

Proceeding not by demonftration, but in-

T'o Imdo'e-

It.

from indulge.]
fond kind nefs.

fined by thcmfclves.
'I'hou, that giv'ft whores indulgences to (in,

2. Capable to infer or produce.

}-

[indulgence.

And left to hcrfclt, if evil ihence enfue.

A brutifl) vice,

in thefe evidences of h(\, yet they

/.

She firft his weak indulgence will accufe.

with /a.

TnJu!t!vt mainly to the fin of Pve.

».

Rcftraint fbc will not brook ;

teftimony.

which the nature of things admits oU and maybe
<oolted upon as fo much the (Ironger by how much
the iWxfl/iiK is more general; and if no exception
.occur from phacnomeni, the condufion may be geneNcu'toa^i Opt.
yj).
He brought in a new way of arguing trom itjjudion, and that grounded upon obfervatioii and ex-

Got'.

the reft.

iNOUi-GtNCE.

Drii,

am not under the neceflity of declaring mylcil,

and I indujleioujly cnnceal my name, which wholly
exempts me from auy hopes and tears.
S\oifi.
I'nduSTRY. ». /. [indufirit, Fr. indufina,

Lat.]

Diligence; afliduity, habitual or

aftual laborioofnefs.
The fweat oi indujlry would dry and die,
Sbakefpeare' s Cyjni,
But for the end it work:> to.
See the laborious bee

F«r little drops ot honey flee,
And there with humble fweeti content ixcr indu^ry.
Cit-iuiey.

Providence would only initiate mankind into the
ufeful knowledge of her treafurca, leaving the reft
to employ our indujiry, (bat we might not live like
Ato-t,
idle loiierert.

r»

/
I

To INETIRIATE.

N E
-v.

I

pure:

fops in wine, quantity for quantity, inririari!
Fifti,

entering far In »ai meeting with the fiefli

2.

To

Drunkennefs

t>,
;

/.

[

from

inebriate.

Romifh church, wirhout any inerrable
ground to build it on.
Hammonel on Faxdamemals.

Ine'pt. adj. [ineptut, Lat.]
I.

Trifling;

Ine'rrably. ad'v. [from inerrable.^

foolifli.

The works of Nature, bein» neither ofelefs nor
i«'{>i,

Their fruitlefj labour, and inefi elTays,

Unfp'jakable ; unutterable; not
It is ufed almoft always

To whom the Son, with calm afpeft, and clear,
Milton.

Reflect upon a clear, unblotlcd, acquitted coofciencc, and feed upon the ineffable comforts of the
S^jUth.
memorial ot a conquered temptation.

Ine'ptly. adi>. [inefti.lM.] Triflingly

.

Milion.

Ine'ptitudj:.

f.

orbs

GlaHville.

no inrfiiiuJe or ftubbornncfs of the matter
bemg ever able to hinder him.
Ray on the Great.
There is an iniftimJc to mouoo from too yeat
'snfion.
Arbuthnot.
Ineqj-'a'lity. n. f. [inegalite, Fr. from

produce in

cffed

I.

The publick reading of the Apocrypha they condemn as a thing eftedual unto evil the bare reading
:

even ot Scriptures thcmfdvestlKy |niflike,ua thing
inrffeHida! to do good.
Ihrok.
The death of Patroclus, joined to the offer of
fojie.

;

It there were

proper efFett.
lame? fpeaks of the ineffenujlnifi of fomt
men's devotion; Ye aft, and receive not^becaufe je
ant amifs.

lyakc.

feeble.

The

It not that better ihtn always to have the
rod in
hand, and, by ttrquent ufe, mifappty and
render intfftcaiiuui this ufelyl remedy ?

4.

Luke.

iHt'FFiCACY. n J. [in and efficacia, Lat.]
Want of power; wantofeffeft
Ifft'i-rcANCE.
' C E
„.
\ //.
I
J. "[from itilLgant. ]
•
Ike'lfcak-"
«CY. /
Abfcncc of beauty ;
want of elegance.
.

1NE[I.F.GAM. adj. [iKflrgam, Lat.]
N'ot Ucoming ; not beautiful
;
oppufite

,

5.

whom the Scripture does l« excellently entertain us, and who does fo highly
dcferve of us upon the fcore of his infinite
perfcc1ions»
and his inrjiimable benefits.
And (hall this prize, th' imjiimahle prize,

On that rapacious hand lor ever blaze
I.ne'vident.
evident.-]

ing fuperiors as fuperiors, can neither fpe.ik nor P. and

H'jotn.

In ER R A bi'lity. »./. [from inerreible.] Exemption from error; iiifaliibjlity.

[inevidtnl, Fr.
Not plain ; obfcure.

in

nnd

Not in

IneVITABi'lity. n.f. [from inenjitable.l
Impoffibility to be avoided; certainty.

By liberty, I do underftand neither a liberty fronj
fm, mifery, fervilude, nor violence, but from netcflity, or rather neceilitatioii ;

that

is,

an univcrfal

immanity from all /^ev//^^////j» and dr.-te)minarioii
'oone.

B'ambitll araiKll UUbei

INE'VITABLE. adj.
ittabilis,Lat.]

Vr.ine.
Unavoidable; not, to be
[:nr^'itnb.c.

efcaped.
I had a pafs with him:
l;c gives me tlie (iuckin
with fucli a mortal motion, that it is inrviiaile.

Sbake/peare's T-welj:h Night.
Fate inevitable

roan and man make,

before them without fear.

Vcpe.

adj.

The habit of faith in divinity is an argument of
things unfecn, and a liable alTcnt unto things inc-vl.
dent, upon authority of the divine revealer. Bro%un,

in Ihcm modefty a commendable virtue, who .-efpeift'

BojU,

ufe.

Difference of rank or flaiion.

.

tlie

blelTcd Saviour, of

Change of ftate; unlikelinefsof a thing

If fo finall iiiefualiiy between

the

fums of

Abht,

no int qualities in the furfacc of the

to itfelf ; difference of temper ot quality.
lo fome places, by the n.iiure of .lie earth, and by
the lituation of woods and hills, t!ie air is more unequal than in oiherij and i/iryva//y of air is
ever
an enemy to health.
Bacon.

R. Hr.

advantage, abufing

There we (hall fee a fight wortliy dying for, that

The great inejuaJily of all thing! to the appetites
of a rational foul appears from thi,, that in all worldly
things a man hnds not half the pleafure in the aftual
polletfun that he propofedin theexpeftation. Souii.

I

pope thereon took

money, to the intolerable grievance of both
clergy and temporality.

nefs.

I

;

.SVui.

(implicity of the king to fuck out in^imable

yet when it was

3. Difproportion to any office or purpofe
ftate of not being adequate
inadeqaate;

Inff^aual ratlier denotes

an adlual failnre ; and irrff.camm, an habiiml impotence to any efTeCL

xaeUgant.

IneJIitnable {kmti, unvalu'd jewels.

earth, nor in the feafoiis of the year, we (hould lofe a
con&dcrable Ihare of the vegetable kingdom,
fioitl.

Si.

Ineffica'cious. adj. [incfficau, Fr. ./;effitax, Latin.] Unable to produce eftcfts

;

quicJcfilvered, the reflexion difcovercd innumerable
inequalitiei all over the glafs.
Neu'tr.n't Opticks.

\

^

thought 1 f«w a thoufand fearful wrecks,

Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl,

.dddi/on on Italy.

The glafs fecmed well wrought

Without effeft.
Ineff'i-ctualness n.f. [Uomi>,effe:}ual.\
Inefficacy
want of power to perform the

weak ;

1

A thoufand men that fiiliesgnaw'd upon

Difference of comparative quantity.
There is fo great an inejuaiiiy in the the length of
our legs and arms, a makes u impotfible for us to
walk on all four.
Ray.

^ualititi as renders it defenfible.

/J,;f/,

Too valuable to be rated i
tranfcending all price.

Unerennefs ; interchange of higher
and lower parts.
The country is cut into fo many hills and ine-

Iveffe'ctually. adv. [itom iKeffeiiucl.\

Dunciai.

and ejca, Latin.]

mabilis, I at.]

2.

Agamemnon, which of itfell had proved ineffi final.

[in

The aft of baiting.

ina-qualitas dttiA inaqualis, Latin.]

wanting power.

v. f.

Ine'stimable. a<^-. [ineftimabk, Fr. /»</?/-

(iliibly,

and iiiefeitual.\
proper

Inesca'tion.

Wilkin,.

An omnipotent agent works infallibly and itrc-

to

Ye pow'rs,
Sufpend a while your force inertly ftrong.

7aytor.

;

dully.

[from mefiut, Lat.J

fockeis, wherein they arc placed, will caufc fome intfiiludt or refiflency (o the rotation of the cylinder.

err, and \in prduiuption will rciider all attempts to
inform him ineffciiivf.
Clanvillr.

BUctm.

I

Were brute unlively mafs, inert and de«d. Thomfm,
Ine'rtly. ad<v. [from imrt.'\ SluggiHily
;

More.

He that illures himfclf he never errs, will always

dead and intfftBhie letter.

[in

Informer of the planetary train

The grating and rubbing of the axes againft the

unaftive; inefficient; ofelefs.
As the body, without blood, is a dead and lifefefs
truiik ; fo is the word of God, without the fpirit, a

Dull; flug-

Without whofe quickening glance their cumb'rojt

Unfitnefs.

cffeft ;

I.

tt.

Lat.]

[iners,

The caufe of all things is by you affign'd.

;

AH things were at firft difpofed by an omnifcient
intelleft, that cannot contrive ineptly.

adj.

gifh ; motionlefs.
Body alone, inert and brute, you'll find

foolifhly; unfitly.
None of them arc made foolilhly or ineptly.

In a

iMEFFt'cTiVE. <idj. [iae£e3if, Fr. »« and
That which can produce no
iffc^ive.^

Ineffe'ctual. adj.

GlanviUe

INE'RT.

barren, the llrata bcjow yielding only mere Ifcrilc
matter, fuch as wai wholly itie^t aad improper for
the formation of vegetables.
It'i/oJvjjrd,

I

Ineffably into his face rcceiv'd.

than that matter (hould trame itfelf ioinerringly
according to the idea of its kind.

3. Unfit for any purpofe; ufelefs.
When the upper and vegetative ftratum was once
wafhed off by rains, the hills would have betonie

in a good fenfe.

Ijit'FPABLY. adv. [from ineffable.^
manner not to be exprefled.
He all his father full »prcfs'd.

deviation.
That divers limners at a diftancc, without
c»fy,
(hould draw the fame pifture, j« more conceivable,

No caufj: of thefe appearances they'll hnd,
But power exerted fay tli' Eternal Mind. BUckm'rre.

to be cxpreffed.

Unable

iNE'RRINCLY.Cifo. [imxidi crrivg.^ M'ithout errour; without miftake; without

M.>e.

[ineffable. Ft. ineffabilis,

With

fecurity from errour; infallibly.

mud be guided by fome principle ol knowledge.

After their various unfuccefsful ways.

fpeakablenefs.

and inerrablfntfs is aflumed and in

clofed by the

Infffabi'lity. w./. [{romifrf_ff'able.] Un-

Light'ning divine, iJi'_^aWf, feiene

Hammond.

Infallibility

to eloquent.

Bfotvn.

Made anfwcr.

Brcu'n.
alTumed by the

inerrable ground l»

build it on.

]

intoxication.

amcthytt prevents i>£"^f/a//«r.

weak

Romilh church, without any

Ine'loquent. adj. [in and eloquens, Lat.] Inerrableness. ». /C [from inerrable^]
Exemption from error.
Not perfuafive ; not oratorical ; oppofite

i

Lar.]

Infallibility and inerrahlenefs is

Homer, but

and inelegant iranUations, impute the me»nnefs ot the tranllation to the poet.
Broome.

That cornelians and bloodflones may he of virtue, experience will mske us grant; but not hut an

Ike'ffablE. aJj.

We

have conviiSion from reafon, ordecifions from
the inerrable and requifite conditions of fciife.
•

in low

Bacan.

hand.

read

_

„.

from errour.

Wanting ornament of language.
Modern criticks, having never

fta into (he frelh water, do iiifiriate and turn up
their bcliies, fo as you may take them with your

IkebrI a'tioN.

, ,

^Vaod'ujard,

ated.
to be in io
At Conllantinople, filh, that come from the Euxine

.

A'/'r» Charles.

INE'RRABLE. adj. [/« and err.] Exempt

This very variety of fea and l:nd, bill and d.ile,
which is here reputed fo inelegant and unbecoming,
is indeed extremely charming and agreeable.

water, zi if ineBriairJt turn up their bellies and are
Sandys.
taken.
7'« Ine'briate. a-, n.
grow drunk j

N E

can»ot allow their wifdom fuch a completenefa

and inirrabiliiy as to exclude myfelf from judging.

Milion.

more

Bacon,

than wine of il'elf.

I
I

Taftes not welljoin'd inelegant, but bring
Tafte after tille, upheld with kindlieft changf.

To intoxicate

to make drunk.
;
Wine fugared Intinaitih lefs ihan wine

N E

What order, fo contriv'd as not to mix

[wehrit, Latin.]

a.

SjSduesus.

_

Mlhon,

Since my inevitable death you know,

You fafely unavailing pity/how. Drydm's .iKr.tig.
Ine'vitably. ad'v. [from .ni-^ilai/,e,\
V/ithout poffibiliijy ot ejcapci
1

'

IN El

I

IHit (Jay ifcou«a«'ft thereof, my fol«commaii4

Thus when in ocbs

Of circuit /««/>iv^iy/ll)cj Itnod,

Oh ten times more, than lygers of Hyrcania

Mlll'm.
X"''%r«'*' i'tmitaily ihou (hall die.
How iittviitilj does ao immoderate laughter enJ
figh
South.
in a
If ihey look no fuither than the nex^ Une, it will
Jjitvita6Jy follow, that they citn drive to no certain

.

NE

You irc-more inhumaji, more Ixrxtroble,

,

hexorai/e dog

!

Siah/feare.
Staie/f. Mei cbani ofyemci.

!

The fcourge

"

,

,

j

i,

Oib within oib.

Miiim's ParitJi/e tcjl.
Nothing can fo pcculiaily graiity the [>oble dtfpti-

human naiure, at for one man lo (ttt i\\fx*
much himlclf as lu figh his gric;;, .-;i.o ^ruani

fitions ot

^ofjTord.V.c'll 0.11 to penance.

Milton.

ther lo

The guelts invited came.
And with the reft th' inexor/jble dame.

Dtyden.

And ncughc was feen, and nought was heard,

by fympaihy ai.d fecrti i«^r^r>//7.i/rconimunica(iuns.
Sou:b.
The true CihI had no certain name given to hioii;

Pofe.
But dreadful gleams, fhrieks of woe.
Wican be deal to the wordsoffo fweet a charmer.

arifing fiom his woiks;

:

I

Drydta.

point.

\

Inflammations of the botvels oft ixmilably tend to
HarvtyonOmfumf^im.
ibe rujn of the whole.
Ifour fenfe of hearing were exalted, weliiould have
no qfiict or deep in the fllentcll nights, and we mufl
' iiiryitntih be ftrickea deaf or dead wiih a cUp of

Th' incx'jrjble gates were barr'd.

'

And inexfirable to all his invitations.

Brntley.

thunder.

Inexcu'sable. adj.

Inexpe'dience.
Not to Inexpe'diency.

[iittxcu/alle, Fr. iiiex-

Lat, in and excufabUS]

cu/abilis,

be excufed; not to be palliated by apo-

nefs ;

logy-

or place ;

a temerity, and a folly iruxcufahlt, to deliver upourfelves needlcfsly into another's power.
It

we (hould be inexcujuble if we did not make thefe
Addifm's Frtiheldcr.
Such a favour could only render them more obdurate, and more inexcufaUt : it would inhancc
frlelBiigs

turn to account.

Boyle.

We (hould be prepared not only with patience to
but to receive with thankfulnefs a repulfe, if

Cod fhould fee them to be inexpedient.

knowledge want of experience.
Thy words at random argue thine inexperience.
Miltin.

and

naturally pro»;eed
iiexfeiience of the world, and ignor.ince of

Prejudice

Addif^n.

Inexpe'rifnced. adj.
Not experienced.
expert.]

ing received excellent eodowmenti, yet have fruf-

Uneinptied ;

adj.

Lat.]

\_inexfertus ,

[inexpertus,

Lat. in and

Not itiextmrt.

Prior.

INE'XPIABLE. adj. inexpiable. Fr.

\Jnex-

fiabilis, Lat.]

z.

Not to be atoned,
Not to be mollified by atonement.
Ljvc feeks to have love

Dryden.

and Creator, are but titles

Cj'jd,

aiul God is not a t:aine, but
a notion ingrafted in human naiure of an /'/wx/^-^/ii^
being.
Siiilingjini.

There is an inimitable grace in Virgil's words
and in them principally contilts that beauty, whiclV

him who beft

gives fo intxprejjihle a

pleafuie

utideritands tlieir force:

ihisdidlion of his

lu

is never

Dryden.

to be copied.

Inexpressibly, adv. [fiom inexpre£iule.]
To a degree or in a manner not to be uttered ;

unutterably.

God will proie^ and reward all his faithful fer.
vants in a manner and meafaie inexprejjibly abun*

danN

H.imH.»ni,

He began to play upon it

the found was exceed-'
ing I'weei, and wrought into a variety of tuacs that
were ini-xprejjibly melodious.
AdJifon't Spec},

Inexpu'gnable.

adj.

:

[inexpugnable,

Fr.

impregnable; not
to be taken by aiJault ; not to be fubdued.
inexpugnabilis , \m..\

Why (hould there be implanted in each fex filch
a

vehement and inexpugnable

apfeiite of copula*

Ray.

tion ?

Inextinguishable,

adj.

Fr. in and exiinguo, Lat.J

[inextiiignibte,

Unquenchable.

Pillars, Itatues, and other memorials, ar% a fort

.

of

of fhadow of an en.ilels lite, and fl.ow an inixiin-

Crete.

In EX IRIC ABLE. adj. [inextricable, Fr.
extricabilis, Lat. ]

Unfrcilful; unfkilled.

The raceeled^ advance
not the readieft way.
;
Left ent'ring on the Canaanite alarm 'd,
Milton.
War terrify ihcm inexpert.
In letters and in ia^vs

I .

taiher, and

^uijijubic dcllre which all men have ol it.

Through the wild dcfcrt

[;«

So wert thou born into a tuneful Drain,
An early, rich, and imxbaujied vein.

felf-fuffiticncy

from
mankind.

It will inexevfabJy condemn fome men, who hav.

and exhaujied.^
not poffible to be emptied.

for

;

Inexpe'rt.

Inexha'usted. a<^'.

Smalridge.

IneXPe'rienCE. ». /. [ittexperience, Fr. in
and experietice.'\ Want of experimental

tion.
Their InexrufaHtnrfs is dated upon the fuppoGtion that they knew Gud|.but did not gloilfy him.

Brnun.
trated the intention.
I N E X H A 'l A B I. E . <7i3j^'. [/» and exhale. ] That
which cannot evaporate.
A new laid egg will not fo eafily be boiled hard,
fceeaufe it conuios a great iluck of humid part^,
which muft be evaporated before the heat can bring
the imxhulubU parts into cotifittence.
Broiin.

m-

Hattderjon.

from a peifon altogether a Itranger to chymical atfairs.

Enormity beyond forgivenefs or pallia-

cufc.

fupeiiors to look well to the expe-

not inexpedieKt they Oiould be known to come

It is

bear,

Simh.
Inexcu'sably^ aJv. [from inexcufabk.^
To a degree of guil: or fglly beyond ex-

inconvenience.

1

is

Oarijfa.
men.
lNSXCtj'sABLENESS.>r./.[fromrWXfff/fli/<'.]

iit-

In EXP e'o e NT. adj. [;'« and expedient. } Inconvenient; unfit; improper; unfuitable
to- time or place.

Alttrl/wy.
If Icaraiog be not encouraged under your admitiifttatioo, you are the molt iitcxcufabU perfon alive.
the more itttxcufabU^ as, from
(h< cradle, the lex is warned againft the ddufions of

Want of

unfuitablenefs to time

difTerent things.

their guilt.

A fallen woman

e/icy.]

diency and imxfedicitcy oS what they enjuin in

£' EJlrange.

'

At we are an idanA with ports and navigable feas,

Rogers.

[in and ill, xfedi-

n. J.

)

1

propriety;

It coiicerneth

is

'

1 1

.

,

his pains, to ling his jo^s^-auti ooana tc-ic^ery iliir.g

/«-

Not to be difintangled

not to be cleared ; not to be fet itte. from
obfcurity or perplexity.

He that Ihould tve inextricable knots, only to
bafHe the induftry ot thole that Ihould attempt to
unloofe them, would be thought not to have I'ervr4
Decay of Piety.

his gcnetation.

Stopt by awful heights, and gulphs immeule
Of wifdom, and of vail omnipotence.
She trembling ftands, and does in wonder gaze.

HUckinerf.
Loll in the wild inextricable maze.
Men are led into inextricable mazes by fctting up
themlelves as judges of the world.

:

Sherlock.

My love how could'li thou ho[:e, who tnok'ft the way Inextricably, ad'v. [ix<yca inextricable.
Imexha'vstible. adj. [in vn^exhauftihU.']
Milton^i Atoniji.
To raife in me inexpiable liate
To a degree of perplexity not to be difC
Not to be drawn all away not to be Ine'xpiably. (id'V. \ixota inexpiable J\ To
?

;

ipent.
Re6e£l on the variety of combinations which may
be made with number, whofe Hock is InexhuufiibUy
and truly infinite.
Locke,
The rtock that the mind has in its power, by
varying the idea of fpace, is perfeflly intxhaujilblt,
and fo it can multiply figures in injinitum.
JLukc.

entangled.

a degree beyond atonement.
Excurfions are inexpiably bad.
And 'tis much fafer to leave out than add.

InexpleaBLY. fli/i;.
Infatiably.

The mechanical alheift, though you grant him
Rofctm.

[in and expleo, Lat.]

A word not in ufe.

What were thefe harpies but flatterers, delators,

his laws of

mechanifm, is nevcrtliclcfs iistxlricatiy

puszled and baffled with tite &rll formation uf aniBemliy,
mals.
In vain they ftrive ; Ih' intangling fnates deny.
power
Pope's
the
to
Hy.
Inextricably firm,
UdyJ/ey,

Handyi's Travel). To Ine'yb. "v. ti. [in and eye.] To inocuand the inexfieably covetous?
Imexistent. adj. \_in and exijient.]
[inexplicable,
adj.
Yt. in
Ine'xplICABLe.
to propagate trees by the iniition of
late
1. Not having being
not to be found in
;

\.

and explica, Lat.] Incapable of being ex-

a bud into a foreign ftock.

compound and piece together creatures of

plained ; not to be made intelligible ; not
to be difentangled.

Of gralting and ineyeing.

Broiun.

What could fuch apprehcnfions breed, but, as their

This ufe is

nature is, incxpiicabte palTions of mind, dcfires abhorring what they embrace, and embracing what
Hooter.
they abhor ?
To me at leaft this feems inexplicable^, if light be
propagated
elfe
than
proffion
or
motion
nothing

nature.

To exptefs completed fingnifications, they took a
liberty to

allowable form^ into mislures intxifimt.

2. Exifting in foinething elfe.
rare.

We doubt whether thefe heterogeneities be fo
much as imx'ificnt in the concrete, whence they are
Boyle.

obtained.

Inexi'stenCe .»./ [/» and exijlence. ] Want
of being; want of exiftence.

He calls up the heroes of former ages from a (late
tMMxiJIenct to adorn and diveifify his poem.
Brocmt en the Odyffey.
Inexorable, eulj. [inexorable, Fr. inexoratilii,

Latin.]

Not to be intieated

to be moved by iatre»ty.

not

through ether.

Nevian.

None eludes fagacious reafon nure,
Bljckmore.
Than this obfcure inexplicable pow'r.
Ine'xplic ABLY. odv. [ftom inexplicable. "[
In a manner not to be explained.
Inexpre'ssible. adj. [in and exprefi."] Not
to be told) not to be uttered^ usuttcr-

abte»

Let fage experience teach thee all the arts

Infallibi'lity.

Phillips.

)

n, /.

[infallibiliti

Infa'li.ibleness. J
Fr. from infallible.] Inerrability; exemption from errour.
InfaltibiliiyK the highcft pcrfedlion of the knowing faculty, and conleijutntly the htmefl degree of
lillotjstt.

affent.

InFa'llible.
fallible.]

adj.

[infallible, Fr.

iti

and

Privileged from etrour; inc»J

pable of miftake ; not to be milled or deceived ; certain. Uied both of perfons.
j

and things.
Every caule admitteth not fuch infallible evidence
of proof, as Iciivclh no pofUbilit}- ot doubt or fcrupte

behind it,

Haoke*.

Sdyve

I

NF

INF

Believe my worils

t

for they arecenain and infaWklr.

ShtJt. II. VI.

The fuccefs is certain and infallitle, and none
ever yet mifcarried in ihe attempt.

South.

iNFA'tLlBLY. adv. [(rom infallible
.]
1. Without danger from deceit; with fecurity from errour.

within their fee.

to put us in continual remembrance of that powerful

Sma'liij^'sScrmont.

defame; to cenfure publickly; to make
infamous; to brand. To defame \% now

nor an old man that hath not filled his djys.

Livi* is itifameiioc the poifoning of her huftiand.

Dryden' s MLn.
z.

[In law.]

I'nfant.

Hitherto obfcur'd, infjm'd,
Created.

Milln.

^

infamis, Lat.]

Ben fonjan.
After-times will difpufe it, whether Hotham were
tnortiirfameui
Hullorat Tower-hill. AT. Charles.
Perfons itifumous, or branded in any publick court
of judicature are forbidden to be advocates.

INFA'STA. n. f [SpanilTi.]

•

I'NFAMy

fa-

i

mia, Latin.] Publick

reproach ; notoriety of bad charafter,

Ye arc taken up in the lips of talkers, and are the
\ £af,t. xxivi. 3.
The noble ille doth want her proper limbs.

Her face defac'd with fears of infamy.

Shakeft.
Wilful perpetrators of unworthy anions,
brand
with moft indelible charailers of infamy, their name

and memory to pofterity.

King Charles

1'n FANCY, n.f. [infantia, I.atin.J
I. The firft part of life.
Ufually extended

by naturalifts to feven years.
Dare we affirm it was ever his meaning, that unto
«heir falvalion, who even from their lender
infancy
never knew any other faith or religion than
only
Chriflian, no kind of teaching can be
available
faving that which was fo needful for the firil
univetfal coovetlioo o) Gentiles, hating Chriftijoiiy >
JJoiker.

,

Firiih4us came t' attend
TKis worthy Thefeus, his familiar friend

Dryden.

Locke,

3. Civil infancy, extended by the Englilh
law to one and twenty years.

thing; beginning; ori-

commencement.

In Spain our f^rlngJ, like old men's child-en,
be
Pecay'd and wiiher'd from ihrir Infancy.
Dryden
The difference between ihe riihes ot R man citizens in the infancy apj in the grandeur
ol kume,
null af»pear by com,aiing ihe firll valuation
of ertaiei
with the ellaits ahtrwatds poffeffed.
A, Lmhnot

if>e'f,

is

h

f.

or l-h,gfa>:glbeff, or i«fang.

compjundcd of
tlie

three

prcpoficiorty/r,/?//^,

to take or cai>.h, and /ief.

it

». /.

^axon
or foug,
ftgnifiet

» privilege or liberty granted unto lords

The

Ev'ry day
It would infecl his Speech, that
if the king
Should without ifliie die, he'd carry itfo

To make the fceptre his.

Siake/fi.Hemy Vlll.

InfCied minds

were as

terrible as

:

jf her

her terminations^ there

Than when I parted hence.
The love-tale

Slakefi,

lifelhd Sion's daughters with like heat.

MIlttH;
-

gious.
/'j/eflfi/ be the air whereon they ride;

And damn'd all thofe that trull them

Infection, n.f.

[infeilion,

Shakefp.

!

Fr.

infeHio,

Latin.]
Contagion ; mifchief by communication ; taint; poifon.
InfElion is that manner of communicating A

and fareia, Lat.J

fome effluvU, or particles which fly off
from dlftempered bodies, and mixing with the
difeafe by

Stuffing ; conftipation.

An hypochondriack confumption Is occafioned by
an infarilion and obllruflion of the fpleen.

Si.-,kff,.

The nature of bad news infe3s the teller. Siake/p,

To fill with foinething hurtfuUy cpntar

Milton.

[/«

Thine eyes, fweet lady, have infeacd mmt..

;

Bacon's Henry VII.

ON.

One of thofe fantaflical mind /»/eSc</ people, that
children and muficians call lovers.
Sidney.

1 am return'd yourfoldicr
No more infeSl.'d with my country's love.

Per-

That fmall infantry

juices of others, occafion

the fame diforders as in
the bodies they came from.
^uincy.
What a ftrange infeHion
Is fall'n into thy ear
Siakefp. Cymbeline,

Harvey

To Infa'tuate. 11, a. [infattio, from in
and fatuus, Latin; infattur, French.] To
ftrike with folly ; to deprive of under-

The blelTcd gods
Purge all iifeHions from our air, whilll you

ftanding.

Do climate here.

The judgment of Cod will be very vifible in infa.
tuating a people, as ripe and prepared for deftruClion,

Vouchfafc, diflfus'd infnion of a man.
For thefe known evils, but to give me leave,
By citcumftjnce, tocutfe thy curfed fclf. Sbakcfp,
Hence,

into lolly and madnefs, making the weak to contribute to ihe defiini of the wicked; and fjffiriiig e>en
thofe, out of a confcieuce of their guilt, to grow more

Siakefp. IVinttr's Tale,

Left that ih' infeifUon of his fortune take

Shakefp. King Lean,

Like hold on thee.

Clarendon.

and fottiftincfs that

The tranfmiflion or emidion of the thinner ani^

had long overfprtad the infatuated gentile world ;
a prime branch of that defign of Chrill's fending his

more airy parts of bodies, as in odours and inf&ionst
i , of all
the reft, the moft corporeal; but withal
there be a number of thofe emiflions, both whole-

Hammond.

difciples.

tia have very important and lafting confequences.

....

Fr.]

Warr'd on by cranes.

ll is the reforming of the vices

The infenfible impreflions on our lender injan.

Lat.]

The principal ftrength of an army confifteth in the
infantry or foot ; and to make good infantry it requireth men bred in forae free and plentiful manner.

!

infancy began.
And rofe as childhood ripen'd into man.

Ikta'nci h

[infanlerie,

wicked.

"il'hcir love in early

Firrt .ige of any

[infantilis,

foot foldiers of an army.

In

to affeft

;

were no living near hcrj (he would infeO to the
north ftar.
Wtfij^.

The fly lies all the winter in ihefe balls in its infantile ftate, and comes not to its maturity 'till the
following fpring.
Derham.

JB/i/iy of the people.

;

with communicated qualities to hurt by
contagion ; to taint; to poifon ; to boU

breath

taining to an infant.

I'nfantrt. v. f.

'

To aft upon by contagion

S&ate/},.

The flaugbtcr of the in-

I'nfantile. adj.

[infeaer,. ^t.infeauii

Latin.]

She fpeaks poinards, and every word ftabs

fants by Herod.

I'n FAMOUSLY, adv.

[from infamous.'\
1. With open reproacn ; with publick notoriety of reproach.
2. Shamefully ; fcandaloudy.
That poem was infamiujly bad. Dry den's DufreJ.
I'nF AMOUtMf.SS 1 n.f. \ittfamie, Vx. in

A prince!^

Infa'n rtciDE, n. f. [infanlicide, Fr. I'tfan-

U

Ayliffe.

This is fo difficult and infeafile, that it tnar
well drive modefty to defpair of fcience.
Glanville.

To their deaf pillows will difcharge their fccrtls.

defcended fromthe royal blood of Spain.
ticidium, Lat.]

i<A-

lute.

Not mature; in a ftatc of

.

Publickly branded with

guilt ; openly cenfured ; of bad report.
Thofe that be near, and thofe that be far from
•thee, Ihall mock thee, which art infamous.
Ez^rk.
Thcle are as fome ttfttmout bawd or whore
Should praife a matron ; what cguld hurt her more ?

adj.

Within the Infant rind of this fmall flower
Poifon hath lefidence, and medicine power.
Sbak.
Firft the fhnll found of a fmall rural pipe.
Was entertainment for the Infant (lage Rofcommon.
In their tender nonage, while they fpread
Their fpringing leaves and lift their in/ant head.
Indulge their childhood.
Dryden's VlrgU.

I'NFAMOUS. adj. [infame, infamant. Fr.

word':

A young perfon to the age of

initial iinperfedlion.

And thy fair fruit let hang, as to no end

ginal;

[in znd feafMe.]
pradicable; not to be done.

f.

And Itrain th'^ir helplefs infants to their breaft.

Bacon.

3.

Infe'asible. adf

To INFE'CT. 'V. a.

one and twenty.

.

in fome part remove the envjr
fo he did not obfcrve, that hr did
bring a kind of malediaion and infaifliirg
Upon the marriage, as an ill prognoflick.
Bacon,

Ifa. liv. 20.

Young mothers wildly ftare, with fear poffeft,

ufed.

_.

As the king did

which openeth the mouths of infants to found
his praife.
Hoohr.
There (hall be no more thence an infant of days,

[infamer,
Fr. infamo,
To reprefent to difadvantage; to

An odd

wuhal

grace,

?«Infa'me. 1). a.

^^

The aft of making unlucky.
and inelegant word.
from himfelf,

It being a part of their virtuous education, ferveth
grearty both to nourifti In them the fear of God, and

Oiir blefled Lord has diftinSly opened the fcene of
futurity to us, and dire£led us to fuch a conduft
as
will infallihly render us happy in it.
Rogers.

V>.

Ccwel.

feventh year.

2. Certainly.

Lat.J

IiiPAns-ri'vcs. »./ [from In/a •i/f:/s, Latjo.

I'nfant. u.f. [enfant, Fr. infans, Lat.]
I. A child from the birth to the end of the

We cannot be as God, mfallibh knowing good
•"if"'-.

IV F

of certain tnanours to judge any thief taken

May hypocrites,

fome and unwholcfomc, that give no fmclt at all.
Bacon,

That llily fpeak one thing, another think.
Drink on unwarii'd, 'till by inchanting cups

Infectious,

Infatuate, they their wily thought! difclofe. Phllllft.
'I'he people are fo univerlally Infatumed with the
notionj that if a cow falls fick, it is ten to one but an
old woman isclapi up in prifon for It.

tagious ;

not : thofe that are Infclious,

htnttey

tion of reafon.

Where men give ihemfclves over to the defence of
wicked inicreits, and falfe propofitions, 11 is juitwlth

i

God (o fmite the greatefl abilities with the greatert
1

South.

arc fuch as arc chieily.

and not fu much in the humours, and
therefore pafs cafily from body to body ; fuch as
peftilence and ilppitud'js.
Bacon,
Smells may liavc as much power to do good as
to do harm, and contrib tie to hc.ilth as well as to
difeafes
which is too much fell by experience ia
all that are infSiious, and by the operations of
fome poifons, that ate received only by the fmcll.
in thefpirits,

n.f. [from infattiate.]
he aft of ftriking with folly; depriva.

ittfaluittinn.

Con-

In a houfe.

Infatua't/on.
'1

infeil.l

by communicated

Where the infecilous peftilence did reign. Shakefp,
Some known dileafcs are inf Gious, and others are

:

no dotage fo infatuate, no phtcnfy fo extravagant as
ti.eirs.

[from

qualities.
The mott infefTious peftilence upsn thee. Shakefp.

Addifon on Italy.

The carriage of our atheifts or deills is amazing

adj.

influencing

>

.lemplt

iNrhC

.

INF

INF'
IftSE'cTtowsLY,

ad-v.

[from

tnfiQlau:.']

wiM dcxcs, that ismclinable
To what hftHhuJIj ilfelfaffefls.

Lower in place.
z. Lower in ftation or rank of life: cor-

'I.

T'.;;

luff CTious.Mtss.

a./,

Sbakt/fi

[from inftiiii>ui.'\

Superiour, for infrriour who is free ?

quality of a<f>in»by contagion.
True love, well confidered, h*th »n
«.

^

chriftian

have added Tome original
which, whetlicr they arc equal or inferiour to my
other poems, an author is the moft improper Judge of.

Unfruitful ; infertile.
minilell from their rolling, dryiiij,
or being rendered inj'tcund in the v.aieri, or the air

,to Tejttables,

is

^rio iheearth their vigour is long preferved.

Subordinate.

4.

in-

calamity,
Whatever ij the ignofiiwx ind Infttldty of the
wifct llaic, we were made wiie and happy.

z.

One wouid fancy that infidels would be exempt
from that fingle fault, which feems to grow out uf
the imprudent fervours of religion ; but fo it is, that
injidiiiiy is proplgatcd with as much ticrceiiefs and
contention, as if the fafety of mankind depended
upon it.
apeelntor.

is

To

bring on; to induce.
Vamiu Inftr fome Imall deifitnent to the lungs.
Harvey.

1.

To infir is Jiothing but, by virtue of one

2.

proportion laid down as true, to draw in
another as true, /. e. to fee or fappofe fucb
a Gonneftion of the two ideas of the /»Lode.
/i-rwi/ propofition.
Yet what thou canll attain, wluch beft may ferve
76. glorify tlu Maker, and ixftr
Theealfo happier, Ihail not be »uh-held
"Thy hearing.
Great,

Iiifirnai Jlo,:e, gr the lunar cauAick,

away

It

IS

a very powerful

plied,

One would wonJcr how, from fo difTeriiig preThey have more opportunities, than other men
luve of purehaAng public efteevi,. by dcferving well
of manliirJ j and Uich opportunities always ixfer
Aiterbny.
cbligalioris.

To offer; to produce. Not in ufe.
Full well haih ClilTord played the orator.
Sbairff.
Inferring arguments oi mighty foitc.

yl

\infercnce,

Fr,

from

Coneluiioa drawn from previous
arguments.
Though it may chance to be right in the condu-

infer. '\

(ton, it is yet unjuft and miftaken in the method of

GiamnJIe,

Thefe infeuncei or conclufions are the elfeiiis of
reafoning. 'and the three propofKious taken all togeff'jiit.
ther, are calkd fyllogifm or aigumcnt,

iKFE'RiBLE ojij. [fro.TU /'«/>r.] Dttducible
from premifed grounds.
As fimple miftakes commonly beget fallacies, fo
men from fallacious &>undalioni, and mifapprcbended
mcdiumi, eredt conduliaDS no way iaferiUe from
their premiffes.

caultick,

llill'i

InfSr'tile. (j^'.

Mat. MeJicj.

to its nature.

Vt. in inAfti-

[infertile,

Impoinble It is, that God (bould withdraw hit
pretence fiom any thing, becaule tlie very fubllance

Unfruitful ; not produflive ; wanting fecundity ; infecund.
r;iV.]

being

ig.iorance

feriilr foil,
it,

it grows

of

itfelf like

(liff

ot God is infinite.

an in-

clay,

A thoufand ages in that tea mull link.

perfcdily imp.aiietrable.

Time's !iothing but a word ? a milhon

Goverrmetfr cf the tongae.
[infertiiiii,

Thou fjv'reii;n pow'r, whofe fccret will controuls-

The in^^ard bent and motion of our fouls

Unfruitfulnefs ; want of fer-

pUguc,

occafioned

the

Between the caufc and cure of my difeale.
Pricr,
When we would think of injinite fpace or duration, we at firll make fome very large idea ; as perhaps of millions of ages or miles, which polfibly we

Brotva.

iMFERro'RiTY. m f. [liiferiorite , French,
from ii!ferimr.'\ Lower &ate of dignity
ot value.
The language, though net of e^uaf dignity, yet is
as near approaching to it as our modern barbarifm
will allow ; and- therefuie we are to reft contented

with that only inferiariiy. wluch.is aoi {loifibly to be
jemcdicd.,
Dryuen

multiply fcveral time?,
L^ke,
Even an angel's comprchenfivc thought
wrought
Cannot extend as far as [hou haft
Our vait conceptions arc by fwelling brought,
Swatlow'd and left in injinite, to nought.
Dennis*

H.iie*x Origin (f Mankind

hififio,

Lat.] To harafs ; to difturb; to plague.
Unto my feeble breaff

Come gently

;

but not with that mighty rage

2.

Wherewith the martial troops thou do'tt infifi.
And hearts ofgreateli heroes do'it enrage, Sptnfr.
They ceafed not, in the mean while to ftrengthen

Hcolier.

Although they were a people infefieJ, and mightily hated of all others, yet wjs thc:c nothing of force
to work the ruin of their {late, till the time beforeHooker.
mentioned was expired.
They were no mean, didrclTed, calamitous pcr-

menfely.
Nothing may be

as

England, though much lefs in territory, yet
Ihould have infinitely more foldicrs of their native
forces than other nations have.
Baton.
Injiniitly the greater pan of mankind have profcfTcd tq iS. under a full pcrfuafion of this great
Rcgert.
article.

Bacon's HenryVW.

No difeafc infefs mankind more terrible
fymptoms and clfeiSs,

in

its

I'nfiniteness. n.f. ffrom /»/?«//<•.] Imraenfity ; boundlefsncis ; infinity.
The cunning cf his flattery, ilie readinefs of hi^tears, the infinitenefs of his vows, were but among

Arbutbn-yt on Diet.

Infesti'vity. h. /. [/« and feflivity.'\
Mournfulnefs want of chcerfulnefs.
Lnfe'stred. adj. [/a andy</?fr.] Rankling;

Sidney.
the weaken threads of his net.
Let us always bear about us fuch imprclTions of
reverence, and fear of God, that we may humble
ourfeKes before his Almightinefs, and exprefs that

;

inveterate. Obfolete.
This curfed creature, mindful of that old
JnfrJIred ^rui^t, thewhich his motherlelt,
So loon as Clarion he did behold,
His heart with vengeful malice inly fwelt. Sfcnfer.

•iihnite

diilante

between

his infiniteneft and

our
Taylor.

weakneQcs.

Infinitesimal, adj [from infinite.']

Infeuda'tion. n.f. [in and /£;«/,/«, Lat.]

The ait of putting one in polfeOion of a

Shaltefp,

The king faw that contranwife it would follow,
that

was apparent that they came not thither
own fortune, but to inftji and in-

Envy, avarice, fuperltitioni love, with the like
cares and paflions i'fefl human life.
Adiifon.

Hooker.

To whom 1 am Co infinitely bound.

to proicdl tlicir

vade his.

infinitely delircd, but that good

which indeed is infinite.
2. In a great degree.
This is Antonio,

fons that fled to him for refuge ; but of fo great quality,

It is hyperbolically ufed for large; great.

1'nfinitely. adii. [ from infinite, j
1. Without limits; without boiHids ; im-

that part wiiich lo heart they favoiiredj and to infcjl
by all means, under colour of otlter quarrels, their
grsatelt advcifViCS in this caufc.

f

Why hall thou plac'd fucli infinite degrees

infertility

To Infest, -j. a. \itififlir, French;

Denham*.

Is lull as itM from infinite as one.

Fr. from

tility.
the

HcAer*

What's iiine, when on eternity we think

when pride comes to Icorvb and hirdcn

InFerti'lity. n.f.

-

I'M FINITE. a<^'. [infni.'FT. infinitus, Lat.]
1. Unbounded ; boundlefs ; unlimited; iinmcnfe ; h.uing no boundaries or limits

became either vciy fmal), or very uTiwholcfomc.

mliics,.thcy t^aula all infer the lame ccnclulioii.
Decay t^ Piety,

pffertnce.

prepared

eating
the flelh and even the bones to which it is ap-

of (liver.

KL^re plenty than the fun, that barren (hincs.

«.

is

The itfftiiliiie: on the one part between the two

vexations attending even the molt refined delights
that make up this bulmel's of life, render it liliy and
uncomfortable.
UpeclatOr,

n.f.

from An evaporated folution of filver, or from cryftjls

fioned

Miltm.

Treachery: deceit; breach of contraft

fcxcs, and the caprices on the other, the vanities and

DryJenU ^n.

Infolds nine aciesof i»fer»ai fpace.
I N F e'r N A I, Stone,

•

or trulh

that occaor
noxiouftiefsof ttieloil, whereby the fruits of iheearth

:

i'jiFERKNCE.

j.

The fame didemperature of the air

Or bright, mfeirx not excellence the earth
Though in comparifon of heav'n fo fmall.
Not gUftering, may of folid good contain

X.

infernu:

.

.

infertile.^

MUicit,

Fr

His gigantick limbs with largo embrace.

H'alls.

SaINFE'R. v. a. [mfinr, Yt.iafero, Lat.J

Stulb.

[ infernal,

Difijcliefof Chriftianity.

Lat.] Hellifh ; tartarean ; ikteftable.

GbTniille.

our great infJic'i/y, that, when fingle
wordt fi.:riify complex ideas, one word can never
(Jiftiiiaiy maaifeft all the parts ol a complex idea.

Were

Want of faith.
muimurs of infdtliiy.
'Taylor' t Rule of living hJy,

A great perfon gets more by obliging his inferiour
than by dildjiiiing him.

Infernal, adj.

Fr, in/deli'

inflruments ol lilencing the

ther.

:

tlotiker^

[infidelite,

The conlidentian of the divine omnipotence an4
wifdom, and our own ignorance, are great

General and fundamental truths in philofophy,
relipon, and human life, condudt nur thoughts into

a^oufand inferiaur and particular profolitions.

Unhappinefs ; mifery

advauccmem of their

infinite

^

IValli.

/e/uitai , L&tia.]

the

tas, I..atin.]
I.

Imfecuhdity- n.f. [inf/fcunditas, Latin.j Infe'riour. n.f. [from the adjeftive.]
Want oftcrtility^ barrennefd
One in a lower rank or ftation than anoIhfbli'city. ?/./. [/.•i/17/f///, French;

tor

Infidelity.*./,

Dryden.

Haw fat: ami agreeable a confervatory the earth ii

had done,

ellatc in this world.

Dr\den.
papers of my own,

1

(he did m.irry, yet not lo join

it

herlelf to an infidel, as in thofe times loaio.\%»idows

The love of liberty with life is giv'n,
And lite itfcll ih' inftiioui- gift of heav'n.

Latin.]

\jnfttaiHdus,

Exhorting her,

Milton.

3. Lower in value or excellency.

mfifl:vc
SlJnty.

power.

An unbeliever; a mifcreant; a pagan;
one who rcjefls ChriHianity.

Render mc more equal, or perhaps

gionfnefs.

Infe'ctive. adj. [from infea.] Having the

Another military provilion was eoavtnlienal >nl
by tenure, npon the infudaiitn of the tenant, and.
was ulually caWed knight's feivice.
Halt.
Infidel. »,/ [itifidelle, Fr. inftdeiis, Lat.]

relative lofuferiour.

The qujiity of being infefllousj conta-

Inficu'ni*.

infi-

;

French.]

rieur,

Cofjtigioudy.

I

IN F'

INFE'RTOUR. adj. [iuferior, Latin

In-

finitely divided.

Infi'nitive,

adj.

[itifinitif,

Fr. infinitivus,

Latin.] In grammar, the infinitive affirms

fee or c(l;;;e.
I,

or

NF

I

INF

mUrcf^.

ClarenJon.

How difficult is it to preferve a great name, when
lion.toit.

Adiiijut:.

General laws are like general rules of phyfick,
accordingwhereun'o, as now, no wife man will defire himfelf to be cured, if there be joined with his

fome (fecial accident, in regard thanhweby
others m the lame irfirmily, but without the like ac-

yet that incampolTibility is

ciderr, tnay.

Sometimes the races of man
the infirmitin of birth

Hjic,

2. Boondicfs number.

Hooker.
may be depraved by

miiued into almoA an irtfiniixjt of diliiii^ions.

nefs ;

Addlfon^ i Spcciator

feeblenefs.

Infitmrnation of air from meteors,
powerful efteft upon men.

2.

behold myfcir,

jmirable beauties.

tiro9me*s Sciet on the OdyJJey.
The liver, being fwellcd, comprelfeth the ftomach,
fiopt the circulMion of the juices, and produccth an
infinity of bad fymptoms.
Arhulhn^t on Diet,

•

1.

In fi'km. a<//. \nifirme, Fr. iiifirmus, Latin.]

To kindle i

Here Hand I your brave
Shak.

«n*

Sidney.
Its waves of torrent fire hifijm'd with rage. Milt.

;

am afraid to think whit 1 have done

Look on'c again, I daic not,

2.

Their lull was infinmrd towards her.

Give me the daggers.
Shaktftt. Mueielb.
That on my head all might be vilitcd.

3.

Notftible; not folld.
He wtio hxes upon falfe principles, treads upon infirm ground, and fo finks; and he who fails in his

;

5.

6.

To provoke

Broun't yulg.ir Err',iiri.

Lodg-

ings for the fick.

Infirmity,

2.

If the veficula;are opprert, they inflame. Wifcman.

».

/

[from inflame,}

JIamers.
I

.

w.

Shakt/f. IVitUtr't '[aU.

Difcovir ihine infirmity,

That warrai)leth by law lo be thy piitilege:

^hak.
Are the inf.rmiiUi of the body, pains, and difafes his complaints ? HiJ faiih reminds him of the
day whei. this corruptible llijll j,ui on incotruptioii,
and this mortal immortality,
Hogtrt
S. failing; weaknefs ; fault.

A irifiid Ihould bear a friend's infirmlt/tt;
tin Bruiu! make* mioe grc<(er ihw (bey »it. Siak.

,

'1

While they a thoul'and other ways rejeft ?

/ -[from inflamma-

Why do they never once their courfe inflcCl ?

he «|uality of catching fire.

This It wili ,!o, il the ambient air be impregnate
with ^\\\fAi infiiimmabtiitiii
Bro-wn.
Cholcr it ihe moft iiiHammable part of the blood
;
whence, from its liffiammabiiity, it is called a ful-

rtieir worfnips to think it was his infirmitin,

Arbuthnot on Diet„

To INFLE'CT. -v. a. [infleao, Lat. J
1. To bend > to turn.
What make* them this one way their rnce dircfl^

Sin/,.

M M A B I'l, T V

Blackmitrr,
Do not the rays of light which fall upon bodies,
begin to bend before they arrive at the bodies? And
are they not refleitcd, refradled, and inSelled by one
and the fame principle, .ifling varioufiy in various
circumrtanccsJ
Nciuton's Qf licks.

lUriey.

Ph'"'-

Inflammable, atlj.
be

fet

on flame j

[French.]
Eafy to
having the quality of

2.

The juices of olives, almonds, nufs, and pine,
apples, are all infiammahle.

I'.m i«'j Natural Hifi.
I.iceius thinks il polfibic to cxtradt mi
inflamma-

*

H'ilkini.

Ou« of watcf grow all vegetable and animal tub-

To vary a noun or verb in its termina*
tionj.

*

flaming.

tie oil from the ttone albeftus.

flatulence.

the belly ate figns of a phlegmatick coiiftitution.

AITemblirs, who afl upon publick principles, pro.
ceed upon in6uence from particular leaders and /»I N F 1. A

;

Wind coming upwards, inflations and tumours of

Intercft is a great ;>/?.im<-r, and fets a man on pcrfccunon under the colour of zeal.
Addijon.

His wi^'d ability.

Sbakr/p.
he dciir.d

wind

The

thing or pcrfon that inflames.

Which wails upon worn times, halhfomethittg feiz'd

II he had done or faid any thing amifs,

fox.

With braien trumpets and inflated \)m',
To kindle Mars with military Ibiiiids,
Nor wanted horns t' infpire lagacious hounds. Uryd.
Infi.a'tion. n. J. {ir(Jlotio, Lat. from inThe Hate of being fwelled with
flate.}

Decay if Piety.

I-nfla'mer.

Derbam.

To fill with the breath.
With might and main they chas'd the muid'rous

To Ik FL a'm e. <r. ». To grow hot, "angry.
and painful by obftrufted matter

tlf-y

am with child, ve bloody homicides.

Vapours are no other than i>(fated veficuU of
water.

A

Thefe buildings to be for privv lodgings on both
fides, and tlie end for privy galleries, whereof one
ihoulJ be for ininfirmary, it any fpecial perfon iIiomM
btfick.
lhK:r..

Ijjfi'r.mity. »./ \inflrmite, Fr.]
I , Weakncfs of fex, age, or temper.

That the mufdes are inflated in time of itfi-, appears to the very eye in the faces of children.
Rav.

Adilif<,n'i Sfcchunr.

Raleigh.

I.nfi'rmary. »./. [infirmerie, Fr.j

To fwell with wind.

1.

to irritate.

;

Poi>e to S-wift.

To INFLA'TE. -v. a. [inflatm, Lat.]

little viin curiofity weighs fo much with
us, or
the church's peace fo liiile, that we facrifice the one
«o the whetting and infiaming of the other.

Some contrary fpirits «iH objeft rtifa %% a fufficient

which, being dilated, would rather /«-

An inflammatory lever hurried him out of this lite

body morbidly with ob-

heat the

'J'o

Hooker

The extremity of pain often creates a coldnefs ir>
the entremities : fuch a fenfation is very conliltent
with an i'VyJjwffr.3/01 V diftemper. Arbutknot on Dhri
in three days.

ftrndlcd matter.

:

The fpleeii is unjulUy introduced to invigorate the

rcfpondent Jelires towards tliem.

Infi.a'mmatory. adj. [from inflame.]
Having the power of inflaming.

Hilton.

to .aggravate.

itfiamei his crimes.

m-

plative fight ol God, tjktih every where new inflammations to pray the riches pt the niylleries of
heavenly wifdom, continually (lining up in us cor'

A friend exaggerates a man's virtues, sn enemy

deductions Irom right principles) (tumbles upon firm
ground, and fills.
Sr,uib,»

Raton to infirm all thole points.

To exaggerate

4.

it is .in

ifv. xiii. 8.

Fervour of mind.
Prayer kinJleth our defirc to behold f5od by fjKmind, delighted with that Contem-

To kindle with pafTion.
Satan, with thoughts <>/7dm'i of highert delign,
Puts on fvvift wings.
Miliun.

J.

when

culation, ami the

Stftn. viii.

More infi.tm'd with lutt than rugip.

Miltin.

To Infi'rm. f> a. [infirmer, Fr. tnfirmo,
Latin.]
To weaken to (hake; to enfeeble.
Not in ofe.

\.

To kindle any paflion.

Infirm of purpofe ;

Thy frailty, and infirmer fex, forgiven
'fo me committed, and by me eipoi'd.

If that bright fpot (lay in his place,

on Srej to make to

Love more clear, dedicated to a love more cold,
with the clearnefs lays a nijltt ol forrow upon mc,
and with the coldnefs infiamcs a world of Ere within

Inflftmmatiein is

flammatitin oi ihzhmmn^,

bum.

difabled of body.

firm and debilitate it.

to fet

Wilkim'i Dadahs.

-

[In chirurgery.]

the blood is obftruftc'd fo as to crowd in
a greater quantity into .-iny particular
part, and gives it a greater 'cok)ur and
neat than ufual.
^ttncy.

Drydin.

The fatal dart a ready p«fl!i5« foumi,
And deep within her heart infix'd the wound.
Dry den.
To INFLA'ME. -v. a. [infiammo, Lat.

fat and vil'cuous vapours dothptefently vj.

ni""-

Shakeff
Immoveable, infix'd,'3\A froicti round. Miiitn.
That lling infix'd within b«r haughty miMd,
And her proud heart witli I'ecret forrowpin'd.

Homer has concealed faults under an infiisUy of

that the lamps within them wero bunuii^
ihey were firit buried ; whereas the iitfjm.

mation ol

Drawn in the flati'ring table ol her eye.

An hyperbolical ufe

.

prelling

when

li

of the word.

J^,^
thi;m, ?x-

Some urns have had iiifrriptions on

Sf*njer.
I

•Ttmpie.

The ftatc of being in flame.
infiammalien..

never lov'd iftyfelf,

'Till now, infixed,

may have a

Tlie flame extendeth not beyond the iiiflamm.ib!i
effluence, but clol'cly adheres unto the original of
iis

RoyU.

to fet ;

I

L&U

The aft of fetting on flame.

1

To drive
to fallen.
And at the point two (lings infixed mh.
Both deadly (harp, tliat Iharjwft Iteel excceden far.
in ;

[infiamfntttio,

inflammation, French.]

Weak-

infufficiency of the pcripateiick doiSrine.

The better, the more defirabic ; that therefore
Wuft be dednble, wherein there is infinity of ^^iodnefs; fo that if any thing defirable may be infinite,
that muft i\eeda be the highell of all thing? that are
defired : no good ii infinite but only God) therefore
Ik k our ti:licity and bill's.
Hot^kfr.

1

B'^y.'e.

INFlamma'tion. h. /.

To Infi'x. v. a \_iiifixtii, Lat.]

qualities.
There cannot be more irtjiitities than one ; for one
Raidgh^s liijifjry.
of them would limit the other.

finifter fide,

We may treat of the infijmm.tilene/s of bodies.

Some experiments may difcovcr the Infirmiefi and

IsFl'NITY.w.y; {infinite, Yx.infinitas, Lat.]
I. Immenfity;
boundleflhefs j
unlimited

.

injla/n-

fire.

TemfU.

We fee all the good fenfe of the age cut o»t, and iNri'RMVESs. a./. [from////m.]

A poor Infirm, weak, and defpis'd old man.
«, Weak of mind
irrefolute.

[from

difeafe

from parts atf^ually dillinguiOicd.

Weak; feeble;

k. f.

The quality of eafily catching

mai/e.]

morr coafpicuous in difcrete quantity) that arifrth

I

Infi.a'mmabLenf.ss.

Difeafe; malady.

3.

bilify of the very nature of things fucccnive or ex-

I.

Infiammahle fpirits are fubtlc volatile liquors,
which come over in diftillation, mifcible with water,
and wholly combuftible.
Arbuthnut on Aliments.

he that has acquired it, is fo obnoxious to fuch little
weakneffes and infirmiliei, if are no fmall diminu-

i. Infinity; immendtv.
Confulionhejrd his voice, and wild uproar
Stood ruI*J, (tood valt infnUuJi confinM.
^TUt9H.
Though the rcpugnacy of inJinituHe be eousUy
incompetibie to continued or fuccefiivc motion, or
continued (juantity, and pends upon the incompoffi-

t. Endlcfs nnmbcr.

which confift m well of fuiphureaus, Tatj
and irfiammabU parts as of earthy and altalizate
on"A"i-u.«»-j Optickt.
ftances,

that a wifcr n-.an fliould have the application of his

I

teufive with infiniiuJe;

N F

I

Many hfimititt made it a^xar mofe ttquiflte,

or intimates the intention of aiSrming,
which is one ufe of the indicative ; but
then it does not do it abfolutely. Clarke.
I N F I 'n T u D E. ». /. [from infinile.l

Infll'^tion. tt.f. \infle8io, Latin.]
I .

The aft of bending or turning.
Neither the divine determinations, pcrfuafions)
or infleSlions of the ondcrllanding or will of rational

creatures, doih deceive

the

underilanding, pervert

the will, or nt«tllilate cilha to any mo.-al evil. Hale^

6 O

Zi* Modulation.

INF

I

Modulation of the voice.

t.

His virtue, iiis gcfturt, his countenance, his leal,
the motion of his body, »nd the
voice, who firft utteretli ihem as

infcgkn of his
his own, is thai
Hoc-kfr.

Lat.j

Power of the celeftial afpefts operating
upon terreftri.il bodies and affairs.

1,

The facred iitjluencr of light appears.
Comets no rule, no righteous order own;

iiifleaiorit and variations, makes divers dialcds.

Prior.

This wficlive quality ol the air is a great incumbrance and coiilulion of ultronorotcal obfcrvations.
Dtyh^m.
InfleXIBi'lITY. } «./. [iiiflexibilite, Fr.

2. Afcendant power ; power of direfting or
modifying. It was anciently followed
hy ipto; now, lefs properly, by upcn.
Incomparable lady, your commandment dolh not
only give me the will, but the power to obey you ;

Inflixible'ness. j
Stiffnefs;

I.

Sidney
fuch infiuenct hath your excellency.
God hath his injluence into the very e^ence of all
things, without which injluiKce of Deity fupporling
them, tlieir utter annihilation could not chufe but
Hooker.
follow.
wife man (hall over-rule his flars, and have a
greater in^uenceupon his own content than all the
Taylor.
coaftellaiiuns and planets of the 6cmament.
Foreknowledge had no in^ucnce on their fault.

fiominj/txible.]

quality of refifting flexure.

3. Obllinacys temper not to be bent ; inexorabic pertinacity.
In F L rxi B Lt.adJ. [French; infexihilis, Lat. ]
.

Such errors as are but acorns in our younger brows,
jrow oaks in our older heads, and become itijiexlblc

Not to be prevailed on

;

Our

in the purfuit of fchcnies
has a bad injluence on our
Addijon.
affairs.
"iio aftoniOiing a fcene would have prcfent injluence
upon them, but not produce a lalling efl'cdt.
Atltriury^
Where it ought to have greateft injluence, this obRogers.
vious indifputable truth is little regarded.

AdJiJjn.
A man of an upright and infiexibleKtTt\^^t, in the
txeculion of his country's laws, can overcome all

Not to be changed or altered.
The nature of things is inflexibli, and their nawc muft bring our untural relations unalterable
derllanding to things, and not bend things to our
:

h^alis.

fancies.

Infle'xibly. (Tit), \iiom injlfxible.']

In-

exorably; invariably; without relaxation
or remiffion.
It

dige(\ed,

To I'nfluence. f. a. [from the noun.]
To aft upon with direftive or impulfive
power; to modify to any purpofe; to
guide or lead to any end.

To INFLI'CT. <u. a.
infliger,

Fr.]

\infligp, injiielus,

Lat.

To put in aft or impofe as

apuntfhment.
1 know no pain, they can inflid upon him,
Will make him fay 1 mov'd him to tliofe arms.

Shaktffcart.

SuBScient is this puniOiment which was inJiSitd.
2 Cor. ii.
What the potent viflor in his rage
Milton.
Ca n d fe irtfia.

Drydtn's JEti.

By luxury we condemn ourfelves to greater tor-

Atterbury.
All the reftraint men are under is, by the violation of one law, broken through ; and the principle
which injiuenced their obedience has loH its eificacy
Rogers.
on them.

I'mfluunt. adj. [injluens, Lat.]

Flowing

worAofmcn.

dicine, is keeping a juft equilibrium between the in-

He who

punilhes.

ThcMrhief intention of chirurgery, as well as me-

Our now ovctlhadowcd fouls may be emblemed

Clauville.
element.
The inward fpringi and wheels of the corporal
machine, on the molt fublimed intellectuals, are

So our decrees.

Dead to irfiiciUn, to themfelves are dead ;

dangeroufly itjiuential.

Sin ends certainly in death ; death not only as to
South.
to merit, but aifoasto a^ual LrJiiSiivn.

3. T he punithment impofed.
What, but Ihy malice, mov'i thee to mifdecm
Milt.

How defpicable are the threats of a creature as
impotent as ourfelves, when compared wiih the wrath
of an Almighty judge, whofe power extends to eternal irJUiliortt.

Rcgers.

inJIiUhni are in themfelves acts ot
'
Rogers.
juftice and nghieoufnefs.

His

Black.

Wings raife her arms, and wings her feet infold.
Pope,

To Ineo'hate. 'V. a. [la and/o.'ium, Lat.
To cover with leaves. Not much ufed^
but elegant.
Long may his fruitful vine iitfoliale trtd clafp about
him with embracements.
He%i>rl.

To INFO'RM. -v.a. [wformn, French; /«formo, Latin.]
To animate ; to aftuate by vital powers,.

1

"AH alike inform'd

With radiant light, as glowing ir'n with fir«.

Miltr

Let others better mold ihe running mafs
Of metals, and inform the breathing brafs
And fol'ten into flelh a marble face. Dryjen's .Xn.
Asfrom chaos, huddl'd and deform'd.
The god (truck fire,^nd lighted up the lamps
That beautify t.Se (ky ; fo he inform'd
This-ill-(hap'd body with a daring foul.

Dryd. and Lee.^
Breath informs this fleeting frame.

Prior.

This fovereign arbitrary foul
Informs, and moves, and animates the whole.
Blackmorg^

While life informs thefe limbs, the king reply'd,.
Well to deferve be all iny cares e.nploy'd.
Pope.

To inflrufti to fupply with new know-

2.

ledge ;

to acquaii}t.

Before the thing

now generally cf; fometimcs in, 1 know
not how properly.
The drift is to inform their minds n>iV4 fome me.
thod of reducing the laws into their original caufes.

We

will enquire whether there be, in the fool({eps
of natute, any luch tranfmiflion and injiux of immateriatc virtues, and what the force of imagination
is, either upon the body imaginant, or upon another
Bacon's Niilural lijt.
body.
If once conlra£led in a fyftole, by the ivjiux of ihc
fpirits, why,

the Ipirits continually Bowing in with-

An elaltick fibre, like a bow, the more extended,
rellores itfelf with the greater force :

if

have this prefent evening from my filler
Shakcjp.

Our ruin, by thee inform'd, I learn.
Alilion.
The long fpeeches ratherxontoundcd than informed
his underlfanding.

Clarendon.

nie dirticulty arifes not from what friile irj'irms

confider.

the fpring

be de(lroye4, it is like a bag, only paffive as to the
injiux of Uu liijuid
At bulknoi.

Tcmplt.

The ancients examined in wh.it confifts the beauty
of goodpodures, as their works lufliciently/>/irw us.
Drydeif.

He may be ignorant of thefe truths, who will never take the pains to employ his faculties to irtfrai
himfell oJ\hcm.
Locke,
To uiidcrfrand tlTe cominooweallh, and religion,

Ray.

out let, doth it not always remain lb ?
it

I

us c/i but from wrong applying our notions. Uig'y.
Though I may not be able to itform men moiB
than ihey know, yet I may giie ihem the occafion to

Aft of flowing into any thing.

I.

'

Been wdi infotmMl of them, and with cautions.

CIcuiville.

I'NFLUX. »./. [infuxm, Lat.]

levcielt

iMFLt'CTITE. aJJ. ^InJUaivt, ft, from /»-

Infold h\i limbs in bands, and till his veins with food.

Honker.

by thofe crulled glubes, whofe i nfiuemial exaxSioM
are interrupted by the iiucrpolal of the benighted

'Ihe aft of uftng puniOiments.

Andliberiy j:lu[ks jufticcby the nofc. Shaktfftare.

Siakeffeare.
But does not nature for the child prepare

The parent's love, the tender nurfe's care }
Who, for their own forgetful, fcek his good.

erting influence or power.

iNFLt'cTiON.w.y; [from »'/y7/V7.J

Of righteous [ob, then cruelly to alritdt him
With all <J>/fjc?ie«r^ But his patience won.

Arbuthnot.

Jluenl fluids and val'cular lolids.

Influe'ntia l. adj. [from wJJuaice,^ Ex-

Revenge is commonly not bounded, but extended
to the uimoik power of the 'injll£}er.
Gover-nment ^f tht Tongut,
I.

Aiid hold thtc to my heart.

communicated was anciently put oiv/A;

in.

TtmfU.

Hov/el.

lutions.
For all the creft a dragon did infold
With greedy paws, and over all did fpread
His golden wings.
Fairy ^eeit.
Noble Baiiquo, let me infold thee,

Milton.

menis than have been yet invented by anger or revenge, or iitjliSei by the grcatell tyrants upon the

Infu'cter. »./. [from /»/f/<!7.]

prcfTuMis upon thoir humours.

Thefe experiments fucceed after the fame manner
in vacuo as in the open air, and therefore are not
injluenced by the weight or preffurc of the atmofphere.
Newton's Opticks.
The (landing revelation was attefted in the moft
folemn and credible manner; and is fuflicient to />JIuence their faith and practice, if they attend.

What heart could wifh, what hand IxJliB this dire
difgrace ?

Not ufed.

7e In fo'ld. f. tf. [;« andyiA/.] To involve ; to inwrap ; to inclofe with invo-

The various creatures move,.and live, and are.

(hould be begun early, and injl<xitly keft to,
L^cke.
not the leall reluSancy.

Hale.

The moon hath an itijluxi^ut power to make im*

By thy kind pow'rand injiueneingcvti,.

'till there appears

i»

Influ-

inconfiftency

throughly

AdSJon.

private fear.

ential.

lillotfor.

The man relolv'd and (Icady to his truft,

it

lakes.

li>thv'-&iovs. adj. [frota. i«Jlux.'\

ou|,h( to be upheld, not only out

immoveable.

HuU,.

In this fenfe

Thefe two do not fo much concern fea-filh, yet
they have a great infiu» upon rivers, ponds, and

of a dread of the divine vengeance in another world,
but out of regard to temporal piofpcrity.

In^xibli to ill, and obrtinatelyjuft.

3.

it

power.

Adam, in innocence, mighthave held, by the coatinued inJIux of the divine will and power, a (tate of
immortality.
Hjle.

Religion hath fo great an infttunoe upon the felicity of men, that

of moment.

now not uied.

Milion.

Brsfun.
foihe powerful arm of reafon.
Too great rigidity and elafticity of the fibres makes
ought
to
them iijlexiblt to the caufes, to which they
A'iuihnot.
jield.

2.

life, it infinitely

3. Influence ;

A

Not to be bent or incurvated

1.

N F

intromiflion.

There is another life alter this ; and the inJliix-tX
the knowledge of Cod, in relation 10 this cvcrlalling

MilloK.

Having

"]

Infufioti ;

Their Injluiiict dreaded, as their ways unknown.

Jittrctvood.

Infle'ctivp. <7(/;. {ixom hi/tea.
the power of bending.

\,

-meni.

Variation of a noun or verb.
The fame wonl in the original tongue,-by divers

3.

I
punlfli-

INFLUENCE, b. /. [<»/«««, Fr. infiun^

which giveih iht veiy effcnte of inftrumcnts available to eternal life.

NF

That which impofes a

jf;??.]

is

enough: few infotm themfelves in thefe

to the
Locke.
more proper opportunity tends to make the-narrauea moic inj-j\mmg 01 bcautiluf,
Ifome,

botroni

A

Ithiok

'

y

INF

I

and
jeligioBi thjt the whole kindom (tould be informed
in fome parts of your ciiara^ter.
Siv'ift,
offer an accufation to a tnagiftrate.
3.
t.tViink it nfccflar>-, for the infereil of virtue

Alia.

break.

For when God's hand had written itt the heart*
Of our firft parents all the rules of good.

Kot ufed.

So that their (kill iifus'd furpafs'd all arts

To

That ever weie before, or fince the flood.

Davitt,
Sublime ideas, and apt words infufe;
The mufe inftrudt my voice, and thou infpire the
mufe.
Kofc.

•

Falling fall, from giaduil flop* to flope.
With wild infiieied courfe and Icilen'd roar.

To Inform, v, ». To give intelligence.

Tli'Mfii'i Summer.

It gains a fafer bed.

He infus'd

.

Infra'ction. n.f. \infra8ion, French; ;>/-

which informs

It is the bloody bufinefs

Thus to mine eyes.

Hbakeff. Maciclh.

In fo'r m a l. adj. [from inform.^ Irregular
not competent.
A word not ufed.
Thcfe poor informal womtn are no more

Info'rmant. ». / [irench.]
1. One who gives information or inftruflion.
He be'ievEs ihe fentence is true, as it is made up

of their holtages, fell upon the (heep wiihout their
L^ Efiiatfgc.
dogs.

\jn

and

frangible.'\

The primitive atoms are fuppofcd infrangible, ex-

unknown to him which his ittformant

tremely compacted and hard, which compailedncfs
and harJnefs is a dcmonllration that nothing could be
prxxluced by them, lint.e they could never cohere.
Ckeyne.

has under thefe words.

h^'atts.

One who exhibits an accufation.

2.

Informa'tion. »./. [/>/«r«a//o, Lat. from
inform. ]
1.

Infrequencv.
Uncommonnefs

intelligence given ; inflruftion.
But reafon with the fellow,
Left you Ihould chance to whip yout information.

form clofing with
natter, grew aduate into a third and diilinS perIct^ion of praflicc.
SoutbU Strmont,
They gave ihofe complet ideas names, that the
things thty were continually to give and receive informaliiin about, might be the ealier and quicker undertiood.
Locke.
He Ihould regard the propriety of his nords, and
get fome information in the (ubjeQ he intends to

Latin.]

1.

Thou didft fraile,
Infufed with a fortitude from heav'n.
Shalef^,
lnfufeh\» breaft with magnanimity,
And make him, naked, toil a man at vms.SbakeJ^,

[in and /rigidus,

I N F u 's I B L E . <7i//. [ from ;;;/a/2.
]

From whom the doctrines being infufitle into alt,
it will be more neceflTary to forewarn all of the danger

of them.

To violate; to break laws or contrafts.

As king, and thus fubmit myfelf to fight.
To deftroy ; to hinder.

Stvift.

Braivn's f^ulgar Errourt.

Infu'sion. »./.

infringe.^

Breach ; violation.
The puni(hing of this infringement is proper to

There were fpiei and hformtri fet to work to
waich the company.
L'EJIrange.
Let 00 court lycophant pervert myfenfe.
Nor (ly informer waich thefe words to diavir
Witljin the reach 01 ticafon.
P^pe.
InformerI are a deteftable race of people, although

fomeiimcs ntceflary.

[froiB infringe.^

fpiration.

We participate Chrift partly by imputation, aa
when thofe things which he did and fufTered

A

are

under a fevere penalty to be infiidled on the in.
fringert of the provincial conftitution.
Ayliffe.
».
\i„fuvdibutum

Infu'ndiboliform.

3.

Hcroick built, though of terreftrial mold
j
Foe not injoimidable, eii-mpt from wound. Milton.
I.VFORMITY. ». /. [from informis, Latin.]
ShapclciTnefs.
From this narrow time of gcftation may enfue a
fmallnefs in the exdufion j but this infcrieih no in-

formity.

Jirowa't f^ulf^ar Errours.

adj.

formii, Latin. ]

\hiforme,

French;

and his wifdom are of his own
growth, not the echo or itfufion of other men.

Here

Infusca'tiojt. n.f. {infufcatus, Latin.]
1 he aft of darkening or blackening.
To INFU'iE. 'V. a. iinfufcr, French; infufus,
Latin,]

To pour in; toinftil.

[infortuni,

French

;

Whcicwiih thou did'ft intoxicate my youth. ZJ^iflw

/»/err«>/ar«/, Latin.]

Peikin, dtilitutc of

all

ho^es, having touml

all

Why (hould he de(ire to have qualities /W/W",,/ into

hii Ion, which himfelf never polTclTed ?

2.

Theaft of fleepingany thing in moiflure
Repeat the infujion of the body oftener.

5.

Bacon,

The liquor made by infufionTo have the infufion ftrong, in ihofe bodies which
have finer fpitits, repeat the infufion of the body
oflener.
Bacon,

Infu'sive. adv, [from infufe.'] Having
the power of infufion, or being infufed.
Siill let

That fouls of animals :>/"/</> themfelvei
Into the trunks of men. tihakeff. Mrrch.
of Venice,
My early miftrefs, now my ancient mnfe,
That Urong Circean liquor ceafe i' infufe,

Jiroivn's yitlgar Errouri.

Unhappy. See UnFoRTUNATK, which is commonly ufcd.

4.

A word not authorifed.

Thou almortmak'ft me waverin my faith,
To hold opinion with Pythagoras,

licking them
over, is an opinion delivered by ancient writers.

his folly

without boiling.

*Tbomfon.

tinfllapen, which (he fathi.jncih after by

Ik FO R T o N A T E . adj.

Milton.

Fir'd by the torch of noon to tenfold rage,

figure.
That a bear brjngi forth her young informnut and

Clarendon,

infiijicns.

Th' infuriate hill forth (lioots the pillar'd flame.

1.

Suggeftion ; whifper.

Sviift,

At th' other bore, with touch of fire
Dilated and infuriate.

in-

Shapelefs ; of no regular

us

They found it would be matter of great debate,
and fpe«d much time, during which they did not
defire their company, nor to be troubled with their

/

Of the (ha{)€ of a

Enraged ; raging.

Of (trengih, of courage haughty, and of limb

for

for righteoufnefs ; partly by ha-

infufon, as when grace is inwardly
beftowed on earth, and afterwards more fully both
our fouls and bodies in glory.
Hook<r,

funnel or tundifh.
I.vfij'riate. adj. {In and furla, Latin.]

dreaded.

imputed to us

bitual and real

A clergyman's habit ought to be without any lace,

and firma, Latin.]

infufia,

Our language has received innumerable elegancies
and improvements from tliat infujion of Ilebraifms,
which are derived to it out of the poetical paflTagcs in
holy writ.
Addifon,
2. The aft of pouring into the mind; in-

breaker j a violator.

Sivifi.

Info'rmidabl E. adj. \in mAformidabiM;
Latin.]
Not to be feared; not to be

n. f.

French;

The aft of pouring in; inftillation.

t.

that jurifdiaion againft which the contempt is.

Infri'ncer.

\infufton,

Latin.]

Clarendon.

giftrate.

Hammond.
not fulible;

that cannot be molten.
Vitrification is the laft work of fire, and a fufion
of the fait and earth, wherein the fufible fait diaws
the earth and infujible ^vtx into one continuum.

H'aller.

Hooker.
Bright as the deathlefs gods and happy, (he
From all that may /»/r//>^; delight it free.
WaWr.

Infri'ncement. n.f. [from

of diflblution;

z. Incapable

Shak, Mcaf.for Meaf.
Having infrirg'd the law, I wave my right

2.

Poflible to be infufed.

1.

Had anfwer'd for his deed.

One who difcovers offenders to the ma-

Info'rmous.

a.

to make cold.

Homilies, being plain and popular inflruflions,
do not infringe the efficacy, although but read.

gence.

To make aninfufion with any ingredient;
to fupply, to tinfture, to faturate with
any thing infufed. Not ufed.
Drink, infufed with fle(h will nourifli fafter and
eafier than meat and drink together.
Bacon,
Not ufed.
5. To infpire with.

4.

Thofe many had not dar'd to do that evil.
If the firft man that did th' ediift infringe.

gives inftruftion or intelli-

informer t.

"j.
;

To INFRI'NGE. i/. «. [infringo, Latin.]

Sxuift.

This writer i> either biafled bjr an inclination to
believe the worft, or a want of judgment to chufc his

virtues of any thing without boiting.
Take violets, and infufe a good pugil of them in a
quart of vinegar.
Bacon's Natural Hijlory.

of the liquor, whole coldnefs did oat infrigidate
thofe upper parts of the glafs.
Boyle.

Charge or accufation exhibited.
3. The aft of informing or accufing.
Info'rmer. n.f. [from inform.^

2.

To chill

The drops reached little further than the furface

2.

One who

To

uncommon.
To Infri'cidate.

Thefe men have had longer opportunities of inJnmtiitn, and ate equally concerned with ourfelves.
Robert.

She therefore, upon fecond thought,
Infus'd, yet as it were by flieallh.
Some fniall regard for Hale and wealth.
Sviifi,
fteep in any liquor with a gentle
3.
heat ; to macerate fo as to extraft the

Infrequent, adj. \_infreqttem, Lat.] Rare;

palTive reception of the will, like

1.

rarity.

The abfence of the gods, and the infrequtncy of
Broome on tie Odyjfey.
objeds, made her yield.

And beat the meffenger who bids beware
Of what is to be dreaded.
Shakrff. Coriolanus,
The a^ive irfoimationi of the iiitellcA tilling the

handle.

;

Lat.]

\jnfrequtHtia.

tt.f.

Milton.

Meat mull be with money bought;

Pun':(h'J the infraClion of ir.y formerfaith. IValltr.
The wolves, pretending an itifrjSion in the abufe

Infrangible, adj.
Not to be broken.

Milton,

Infufe into their young brealls fuch a noble ardour
as will make them renowned.

of terms w^ich his informant underflandsi though
the ideas be

Bad influence into th' unwary bread.

fraSlio, Lat.] The aftof breaking; breach ;

violation of treaty.
By the fime Cods, the juftice of whofe wratli

But inftruments of fome more it^ightirr member,
That fets them on. SbaUfb. Mejfurefor Me^fure.

N G

I

\_infrailus hM\n,\

To Infra'ct. f. <7.

To

Tertullus iKfirmtJ the governor againll Paul.

N F

either f^Ife, faint, or infortunate, did gladly accept of
Bacon's Henry VII.
the condition.

S-U'ifi.

my fong a nobler note afTume,

And fiiig th

'

infujii/i force of Spring on man.

'Tiomfn,

Ikca'te. n.f,
paflage in.

znd gate,']
An old word.
\_ln

Entrance;

One noble perfon (toppcih the i»^a/fofalI that
evil which

is

looked

which aie at his back.

for,

and holdcih in

all

thofe

Sfenfer,

To pour into the mind; to infpire into. Inoanna'tion, ». /. [ingannare, Italian.]
(tOz
Cheat.

«.

V
Cheat { fraud

I

N G

;

decepiion ; joggle ; de!u-

A

word
impofture; irick ; flight.
neither nfed nor neceff.iry.
Whoever ChtW rcfign their reafons, either from the

fion ;

root ol dcceii in thcmlelves, or inability to reliilluth
trivial ingmwathm from othert, arc within the line

Broiun.

ot vulgarity.

my pen, 1 Ihall nm let pafs without their due character, being paK of my profeffed
ifMton.
ingenuity.
.

My
My truth, 10 them who at the court do live
conftanc)' I to theplancB give :

To jefulis
1

7e

I

nglmi'k ATE.

To double

K
2.

Camden.
i;.a. \iTigemii!0,lj'AUn.\

Clarendon.

Isgemika'tion. n. f. \imn^ geminatio,
Repetition

Inqe'kde.rer.

». /.

that generates.

:

reduplication.

[from iitgoider.^

He

See Encendek.

ftock of another; as, he ingrafted an apple

how much

upon a cra/i.

ferable to fine parti and fabtile fpeculations.

INGE'XUOUS.
Open

;

tivc.

fair ; candid ; generous ;
there arc of Jjb's,

were rather feigned and afftacd

words only, Behold

1

will lay mine hand upon

Ho'.kcr.
caufe fiiriher 1 will not proceed.
Infufc into their young brcalts fuch an ing.-nuous
and noble ardour, as would not fail to make many of

Thole noble habits arc /»^f»erar<^ in the foul, as
religion,. gratitude, obcdieiii.'.', and tranquillity.

2. Unbegotten. Not commonly ufed.

Vet Ihall we demoullratc the Lime, from peifons
from us in condition as time ; that
Brown.
is-our tirll and ingencrauJ foiefatlicrs.
INGE'NlOUboi//. [ingeniuix, French ; /«far

inventive; poffeffed of genius.

*Tis a jier'lous boy,
Bold, quick, ingenious, forward, capable. Shakcff.
Our ing/niiUi friend Cowley not only has cni-

cloyed much eloquence to |>*rfuaJe that truth in his
preface, but has in one et his poojns given a noble
Bojlt.
example of it.
The more ingenious men ire, llie more they are
'Temple.

apt to trouble themfclves.

2, Mental; intelledual. Net in ufe.
1 he king is mad: how ftilfis my vile feiife,
That I lland up, and have ingenious feeling

tily; fubtily.

by common fears, or

the fchemes of men too ingenloujly politick. Temple.

I.nt.e'niousness. ». /. [from ingenious.]
Wittinefs fubtilty ; ftrength of genius.
The greater appearance of ingcniou/nrfi there is
:

in the praflite 1 am difapproving, the more danger*-'''
ous it ij.
•
1
T

[ingenilusy

Latin.]

luiufa ; and that notions are not ingfnile, and
imprinted by the finger of Nature, but by the latler
and more languid impreffions of fenfe, being only
the reports of obfervation, and the refult of fo many

r.i/,j

Sourli.

We five them this ingeitite moving force,
That makes them alw.-j(s downward take iJjeir courfe.

BUi.

ICGEMtj'iTT »./.

{ingeauite, Fr.

from ;V/-

genutHS.]

K Opcnntfs

;

^'"g Cbarles.

fairncfs ;

iNGE'xtJOUSLV. adv. - [from ingenunui.]
Openly; fairly; candidly; generoufly.
Ingenuoujly

I

candour; freedom

Dryitn^
to fettle.

;

For a fpur of diligence, we have a natural third
Hooker.

'Tis great pity that the noble Moor
Should hazard fuch a place as his own feciad,

Willi one oian ingraft infirmity. Shakfp. Othella.
Ingrafted love he bears 10 Cafar.
Shakefb.

Ingra'ftment. ?/./. [from ingraft.]
The aifl of ingrafting.
2. The fprig ingrafted.
1 .

I

Nc r A T E

I

'

IngraTe'ful. j

adj. [ ingraft/! ,

L a ti n

;

//r-

grat, French.]

Ingrate
is proper, but ingraufnl lefs proper ibaa.

ungrateful.

Shjkeff. Timon.
It was a notable obfervalion of a wife latr.er, and

1.

Ungrateful; unthankful.
That we have been familiar,

no Icfs ingenuoujly confelfcd, that thole which held

//.•^rj/trfoigctfuliiefs fliall poifon, rather

and perfuaded prelTure of coiifcicnces were commonly
Bacon.
interclfed.
will ingrmio-jjly confefs, that the helps were
I
taken from divines of the church of England. DryJ.

Than piiy note how much.
Hhakeff. Cor'itdnnuT,
And you deger.'rale, you ingralenseili. Sbakejp,.
So will fall

He and his faiihlcfs progeny

Miltpttt-

Pcrfidious and ingrate
His (lores ye ravage, and ufurp liis (late. Pope's 0</l

Unpleafing to the fenfe.
The caufes of that which is unpleafing or ittgrale
to the hearing, nuy receive light bg tlut which is

we affirm that iron, ingejlej, receiveth

picaling ahd grateful to the light. Bacon's Nat. HiJI.
He gives no ingiaieful food.
Milton,

is highly

Boyle.

valued.

To INGE'ST. 'V. a. {ingefus, Latin.]
throw into the ftomach.

Broiun.

in the belly of the ottrich no alteration.

Some the long funnel's curious mouth extend,
Through which iitgtjied meats with eafe defceni).
Edackmore.

iNCE'sTiofr. n.f. [from ;«ff/?.]
throwing into the ftomach.

Thcattof

It has got room enough to grow into its ftill dimenfion, which is performed by the daily ingrjlion.
of mine and other food, that's in a Ihort time alter

Hancy_

digeftcd into blood.

INGLO'RIOUS.

adj.

Void of honour ; mean
I.cft fear

j

Sufficient to have flood though tree to fall.

To

into foreign parts,

will

whofe fault ?

;

wit.
Not in ufe.
Whatever of the produflion of his ingeny comes

Nor

:

Whofe but his own ? Ingrate', he had of me
I made him julf and riglK,
All he could have

Inge'n'Uousness. n. /. [from ingffiiiouj.}
Opennefs fairnefs candour.
1'ngenv. n.J'. [;wf///«w, Latin.] Gcqius;

\jnglorius,
;

Latin.]

without glory.

2.

ToIngr a'tiate. "u. a. [in anigratia, Latin.] To put in favour; to recommend
to kindnels.

It lus^evith before the per-

fon whofe favour is fought.
Thofe have been far from receiving the rewards
K. Charhs..
od'ueh iagrati.!tings v.ili ihepcofit.
Their managers make them fee .irmics in the aitt
and give iliem their word, the more 'to ingratiate
themfel«s iw'/A th.em, that they figoify nothing Icfs
than future (laughter and defolatioit.
Aditifan,
Toliticianr.,

who would

ratlier

ingratiate

ijourible tot

ihcm-

felves with their fovereign than promote his real
rervice,acconmu>datchiS'Counfcls to his inclinations,

return them back to Egypt, chufinp;

Milton.
Inglorious life with litvitude.
derogatory lor a
It was never held inglorious or
king 11 be guided by his great council, nor dilhofubicas 10 yield and bow t9 their king.
tUi%i:el.

ftom diffifflulation,

To fix deep

after knowledge ingrafitd\aVi^.

Ipeak,

No blame belongs to thee.

In-

nate ; inborn ; native ; ingenerate.
Ariftoile alfirmi the mind to be at tirll a mere

lepeatedmperimenu.

Upon our flock.
4.

If

;

Of my huge forrows ! better 1 were diltratt. Sbakeff,
1.-«ge'mously. aJru. [immingeitiottt.'] Wit-

adj.

Mi/ton.
an ingenuous deteftation of faifchood be but
that
the
true
and geinftilled,
is
and
early
carehilly
Lode.
nuine method to obviate diihonerty.
2. Freeborn; not of fervile extraflion.
Subjei^ion, as it prefervcs property, peace, and
fafely, fo it will never dimiuilh riguts nor ingenuous

Milton^

This fcUow would ingraft a foreign name

1

J

liberties.

gittio/us, l.atln.J

Jnce'nite.

mouth

them renowned.

Uiilc'i Origin of MtinklnJ.

will not pretend to judge

Shall I erlcift, aud for thole altone.
As ncKi of kin, Achilles' aims I claim;

my

\\\ divei-s children their wgencrale and feminal
powers lie deep, and are of flow difclofurc. h'atton.

I.

All bis workton me,
Good or not good, ingraft, my merits thofi;

noble.

whereby his

have fpoken once, yet will I not therefore
maintain argument ; yea twice, howbcit for that

;.

To plant or introduce any thing not na*

3.

adj. [ingemius, Lat.]

things to fcrve his ambition, than true (jualities /«Bac:,n.
gemralr in his judgmcot or nature.

Witty

Nor are the ways alike in all

Hiw to ingraj, how to inoculate.
Mjy'i Virgit,
z.
Vo plant the fprig of one tree in the

wifdoro and other virtues may appear j but ihe glory
of an ingenuous mind he hath purchafed by tliefe

Inborn ; innate ; inbred.

1.

To propagate trees by inlition.

1.

an honeiV liinplicity is pre-

Many fpcethes

pre.''uinrd as

To Ingra'ff. -J. a. [in undi graff.]

how far virtue furpaffcs ingr-

nuity, and

1.

Spenfer,

For like an afs, whofe back's with ingoU bound.
Thou bear'llihy heavy riches but ajcM.iiiey
And death unloadeih thee. SLm. Meaf.for Meaf,
Within the circle arms and iripodilie,
In^ts of gold and filver heap'd on high.
Dry Jen.
Every one of his pieces is an ingot of gold, iivirinfically, and fulidly valuable.
Piior.

or delight any one.
pregnant iollance

tyvodvjayd,

Divers naiuralifts erteem the air, as well as other
eler-icius, tobei^iffoj^/f and incorruptible. Boyle,

virtues

South.

[/ingot,

Into great ingots and to wedges f^uare.
II ihou art rich, liiou'rt poor;

di-

[Vtom ingetiious.l Wit; invention; genius; fubtilty; acutengfs.

A

to be produced or brought iato being.

Thofe

any thing,

difcourfe, nor linenets of convcrfation, to entertain

Inge'ner.vELK. adj. [in inA generate.'] Not

1,

ijucftioned for

Thefc arc but tlie frigidities of wit, and become
Bronvn.
not the genius of manly ingrnuitict.
Tlic ancient atomical hypothcfis might have Ik-pt
for ever, had not the ifgcntiity of the prel'ent age reGLmville.
called it from its urn and fileiice.
Such fots have neither parts nor wit, ingenuity of

He would often inpahati the word peace, peace.

Latin.]

when

reilly confels, )0U mult commend his ingenuity, and
Lxke.
p.irdoii the fault, be it what it will.

to repeat.

;

know not whether it be more Ihame or wonder,

a child,

Pope,

French ; or firom in~
ge^oten, melted, Dutch.] A mafs of metal.
Some others were new diiten, and diftent

put oft ingenuity, and the native
greatnifsof their kind, as 10 Jelccnd 10 fo bale, fo
C'.-uernmeni of the Tongue.
ignoble a vice.

Fxaii. xxiii. 16.

Gi.'-jo/i's

1'n cot. «. /.

that men can fo

thou hall gathered in thy labours out of the neld

^

This vafe the chief o'eiconje,
Replcnilh not ingloritujly at home.
Donne.

to butTuons my penfivenefe.

;

N G

Ingi-o'riousi.y. adi-. [from iHghtious,]
With ij;nominy ; with want of glory.

;

Mine ingenuity and opennefs

Thou ftialt keep the feaft ol Ingalhirhg, when

Inge, HI the names of places, fignifies a
meadow, from the Saxon in3, of the fame

I

Yet though our army brought not eonqueft home,
I did not fiom the fight inglorious come.
Deyjtn,

• as (hall fall under

l.NGA'rHfcRimJ n.J. {in and gathering.
The ail of getting in the harveft.

import.

N G

i

Such of high quality, or rather off articular note,

SfeB.Uor.

Incra'titude. «.yl [ingraliltide, French;
in and grntititde.\

Retribution of evil for

good; unthanLfuIncfs.
Ingi-iiiilude !

ihou mArblc-hearled fiend.

Mot.
S

IV G
.1

lis,

T'ff

L,^EJirange.

inourii'J.

It

fed of the (ifhples of a medicine.

The ointinent is made of diyers ingreJienUy whereof the hatdell to come by is the mofs upon the il<ull
ot 3 dead man unburied.
Bacon*! Natural Hijiiry.
So deep the pow'r of thefe ingreditntt picrc'd,
Ev'n to the inmoll feat of mental fight,

1.

body into the body putrefied i or el/e by exciution
of the body putrefied by the body ambient.
Bacon.
Thofe air-bladders, by a fuddcn lubfidcnce, meet
again by the ingrrfi and egrefs of the air.

m

'"'''"''=

Ticafon is not Int^rited, my lord.

Why, all delights are v.,in

Y cvich;

in-

Digiy (,n b'.dies.

n£terifed with eruptions in buboes, by the inflam.
mition and fuppuration of the axillary, inguinal,
and other glands.
ylriuihnct.

%> Inc u'lf. -v. a. [/» and gtilf.]
If.. To fwallow up in a vaft profundity.

A river large
JIafs'd underneath ingulfb'd.

Milioa.

Catt out from Cod, he falft
Into utter darknefs deep ingulf h'ii.
The river ftjws redundant j

Milton.

Then rowlingbacic, in .hit capacious lap,
Ingulfi their whole mtlitu, quick immerft. Philipi.
caft into a gulf.

To

If »-e adjoin to th« lords, whether they prevail ot
itot, we /'ig*//'ourfclves into aifuicd d.uiger. llajw.

[inguyg/jt), La(.]

Viet.

ItJCURCiTA'TlON. «./. [froiD ingurgitate]

The aft of fwallowing.
Ikgu'stable. ajj. [/v and ^»/?<;, Latin.]
Not perceptible by the tallc.
As for ihtir lalle, if the ca»eleon's nutriment be
can the tongue be an inilrunwnt thireol
fir the body nf the element ts irgujiabic, void
of all
f.'pidily, .ind without any adion ol tlic tongue, 1-,,
by
«ii» rough .irtery, of wizzen, conducted imo
the
aic, neiilici

Urtvut'i yulf^it £t rnu'!.

greedy hold upon a bird.

Iteril

for they (hall inherit th»

Matt.

I-he

his

The aft of inhabiting or planting with

own private good.
Locke.
We mull know Itow the firft niler, from whom any

dwellings ;,ftate of being inhabited.
By knowing this place we Ihall tJie betierjudge o^

know who has a right to fuccced him in it, and in-

Mi/ton.

one claims, came by

Uuwliiing

Kaleigb.

.

inhabitation than doubt it.

Inha'biter.

n.

f.

Locke
AJdi/iif.

polfcffion of :

Shakejpeare.
Not tfed.
He, that had wit, would think that

One

we can

an eftate he had fome profpei*

Topoflefs; to obtain

2.

Brctun'i J^ulgar Err.

[from inhabit.^

to fell

of inbennng, he formed delays.

Quantity of inhabitants.

We Ihall rather admire how the earth contained its

his authority, before

herit It liom him.

the begiuuing ol nations, and of the world's
/Viia^i-

"'!'"

_

meek,

fon can receive from his father
good things,
without empire, that was verted in him for
the good
ol otlieit : and therefore the fon
cannot claim or inbent It by a title, which is founded
wholly on

Univerfal groan.

3.

Sbakcffearei-

,

Bleired are the

Habitation; place of dwelling.

z.

pain. Shai.
hlood he did

earth.

Inhabitation. «./. [horn inhaii/.}
As if the whole inhabitation perilh'd.

for the cold

of his father he hath, like lean,.
land, manured with excellent
good llore of fer;/,ir/-/V

^\^"'^-

Tfaller.

What happier natures ibrink at with aflright.
The hard inhabitant contends is right.
Pope.

The aft of entering; en-

r.vcuiNAl.. adj. [inguinal, French; iagutn,
Belonging to the groin.
Latin.]
The plague feems to be a particular dilcafe, cha-

i riiice H,.rry is valiant;

naturally

And rtands amaz'd 10 find hij dear

Arhuili.

X/jakeffear,.
but that moll vain,

;

Which with pain purchasM doth inherit

Srira-n.

A wild inhabitant of th' air.

I.

To receive or porfpfs by inheritance.

I.

able that iniaii.anij of the fame latitude, fufajeded
unto the fame vicinity of the fun, fliould alfo par.

L.1J s

BentUy,

To Inhe'rit. ni. ei. [e-iheriter, French.]

lithe fervour of the fun were the fole.cauie of
blacknefs in any land of negroes, it were alfo reafon-

takeof the fzme hue.
For his fuppofed love a third

is

,

,

Aiioi.

The hre would drain the pores onhe glafi too fuddenly, and break it all in pieces to get ingrtjpon.

J^ii'-

Re-

In this place they report that they faw inbabilanli, which were very fair and fat people.

trance.

To fwallow dCwn.

Sl>akffpeare.

'

All putrefaftions come from the ambient body;
tither by ingreji of the fubftance of the ambient

T'olncvKcnxTt.. -v. a.

various atcordin
ling to principles in~
-e^riathnot on Aliments.
,
i hey
be fure to decide in favour of
themlelves, and talk much
of theii inbtreni ng\\t. Swiffi be ideas of fuch "-"-i—
<•
^
modes c.in no more be fiitllljent llian the idea of rtdnefe
was jult now found to
bei nhertnt
the blood, or Uut of whitencfs
in the
brail
Bentley.
.,.
Tihe obligations
1
we are under of diftintruifhine
ourfeives as much by .-in inherent
and habitual, as w?
are already diftinguilhed by
an external and relative
.„
will

.,.,

Ikha'bitatnt.*'./ \iiominhahit.'\ Dueller; one that lives or refides in a place.

TeinjiU.

2.

Animal oil
tfrem in it.

fidence of d'welkrs.
_ So the ruins yet rclling in the wild moors, teftify
a former inhabitance. Carcw't Sur-vty
of Ciriruall.

Tncress. n. f, [/'.-^r^/r, Latin.] Entrance;
power of entrance; intromiffion.

Latin.]

Locke.

Inh a'bi t.-v nc e. H.J. [from inbtibit,]

Spleen is a bad ingredient inlt, any other dirtemper.

grtjfio,

•

Dryden's Juvrnal.
power ot dra-.ving irm is one of
the ideas of 1
loadltone ; and a power to be lo
drawn is a part of the
complex one ot iron j which powers
pals for InLercf
'^
qualities.
,..ij
Locke*
I lie

The frozen ridges of the Alps,

but not according to cuftom.

{mgreffioti,

to yourI can Ipeak of
that only which is inborn and
•nbrrcnt to your pcrfon.

[/»*<j^/WA-, French.] Incapable of inhabitants; not habitable; uninhabitable.

Or any other f,r»uoJ iiihatitakle.

». It is ofed by Temple with into, projH;rIy,

innate; inbarn.
mean not the authority wh^ch isa.nexed

othce,

Not in ufe.

m

JNatuially conjoined;
1

Capable of aiFording habitation.
The fixed liars are all of tliem fun5, with fyftems
oi imhaiitable planets moving about them.

2.

does, till the argumcQI end in the more general.

Ikcre'ssiun. /i. /.

2.

Waller.

Inha'bitable. adj. [from ixhtibit.}

Sunk down, and all Iiis fpirits became entranc'J.

Nevjtcn.
1 bate often wondered, (hat learning is not thwight
a proper ingredUnt in the education ol a woman of
quality or fortune.
Mddifon'i CnurJian.
Parts, knowledge, and experience, are excellent
tngttdUnii in a public charadcr.
Rorcrs.
Water is the chief ingieJUni in all the animal
fluids and Mids.
Arbmbnoi
/Himm. s.

my mind
A mod inherent balenefs. Sijak^ffear,',
Coriofanm..

Milton.

Bjt grief and wro.ig fecure my fear.

1'hat Adam, now enforc'd tothut hii eyes,

Milton.
By this way of analyfis we may proceed from compounds to ingredients, and from motions to the forces
producitig them ; anJ in general, fron:i efFeds to their
caufes, and from p.vrticular caules to more general

Lel> I furceafe to honour
mine own truth;
And, my body's aaiou, teach

Barucli.

'J'bey fay, tyild hearts inhalil here;

cotnmonJy

is

will not lio't,

I

To dwell; to live.

l.earn what creatures there inhabit.

of a body confiding

fo as to be-

infeparable from it.

Hooker.

She (hall be inbahiltd of devils.

TolttwK'Bn.'v.n.
part

rem, Latin.]
Exitting in fomething elfe,

1.

They fnall Build houfes and inhabit them. Ifaiah.

greJiens, Lat.J
materials.

To Inherent. «^. [inheretit, French; inha-

[habito, Latin.]

inialiicib v,}iom hefavcih.

Incre'dient. K.f. [ingredient, YlCnzh; ia-

13

a.

to hold as a dweller.

Not all are partakers of that grace whereby Chrift

Drjiien.

fuFpjry-

unready; unfit; • them ; their being is a dependence on a fubjeft.

Digby en Bo.'H,,.

Inha'bit. -v.

dwell in ;

Ons jjypoi&fs'd 'em both, ai.d in one grief they

Component

UnlkilAi!;

unqualified.

"Sot was it with iMgrattttJi return'd.
In equal Sres the biiiitui couple burii'd ;

of different

Lat.]

N H

r

They do Uiinhnem tiieirfubjeift which

;

and vengeance Attends thole that repay cvii for good.

1.

N n

I

Isha'bih aetf. [ir.iaiile Ffench; inl'aii-

More hIdfmM, when thou (hewia thee in child,
Than the (a monilcr.
Sb^kefpf^reU f^'^g hear.
IngriUitude is ihhorrn} both by God and man,

I

in

had none,

1 o bury (o much gold under
ahat inhabits ; a dweller.
a tree,
And never after to inherit it. Hhakijp. Tiius
The fame name is given unto the inlanders, or
And.'
midland inhabiteri, of this illand.
Broun. iNHii'RiTABLE.aa;/. [from ;>z;«m/.] "1 ranfWoe to ihe/a,6<j//r<-fiof the earth. Re^rvui. 15.
miJible by inheritance; obtainable by
They

ought

to undcrlbnJ, tlijt

fome inbabiter in

-"•'"•

ilicre it not only

this divine houfe, but alfo

to Inha'le

fuccclfion.

fomc

A kiniof laic-i/Vj^jVeHat* accrued unto them.

Derb
'Jtrljam.

,

[inhalo,

Latin]

To

in with air; to infpircj oppofcd
to exhale or expire.
Martin was walking forth to Iniiale thefrelh breeze
of the evening.
Arbuibnoi and Pope.
But from the breezy deep the Well inhale

The fragrant murmurs of ilie wcftern gale.

Pope.

There liis the Ihcphcrdoii the grady turf,
hhaling healthhjl the dcfcending fun.
'Ihomfmi.

jfr,,y,eard

Was the power the fame, and from the fame oriMofcs as it was in Oiti,!i And was it in<

beniable in one and not in the other ?

Piitrimony ; hereditary pofleHion.

I.

W'htu the f)ii dies, let the inieriianre
Uefccnd unto the daugtiier.

Si>ali,Jfi,are's Henry
Is there yet any portion or inheritance

VC

for us in our

father's houfe?

.

Gen. xtsj. 14.
Milton.
mull I bcijueatW ihce
Only a lad inheritance ot woe ?

Llaim our jull inheritance of old.

[iuharco, Latin.}

To

cxill in fomething elfc.
For, nor in nothing, nnr in things

Eilreme and icaturuij brijfctjvanlevt /ffAf«. Ootm/.

.

() dear, unhappy babe !

GoJi
cruel gods! can't all my pains atone,
Unlefs they reach my infant's guillltl's head.

Fclton.

'Ihe identity of found may appear a little inhar.
monioui, and (hdck the ear,
Broome.

T» Inhere. -i;. n.

Locke.

Inhe'kita.nce. ,v./. [from /nherit.]

(.aiullus, though his lines be rough, and
his numteniubarmsniout, 1 cnulcl recommend for tlie fofincfs and delicacy, but mull decline
for the loofeiici;,
01 hij thoughts.

Carcic,

.

ginal in

Ikhakmo'nious. adj. [in An A harmonious.
Unmufical; not fwect of found.

,

-J

Ky the ancient laws of ihe realm, thev were
not
inheritable to hira by defccnt.
-

draw

I

I.

Smlthi

The reception of polfeflion by hereditary
right.

Men arc not prnpriclorsof what ihcy have merely
forllicmfclves, their children have a title to part

of

it,

which comes v> bt wholly llicirr, when death

hM

N H

I

2- In SbakeJ'ptare , pofTcflion.
You will rather Ihow our |eccral lowd
For the inhaltancc of their loves, and fafeguard
Of what that want might ruin. Shakeff, CoriiJaaus.

Inhe'ritor. »./. [from inherit,] An heir;
one who receives any thing by fucceflion.
You, liVe a letcher, out of whorifti loins,
Are pleas'd to breed out your inherilors.
Shakeff.
Tile very conveyances of his lands will hardly Me
in this box ; and muft the inktritor himfelf have no
^-

Shakf/peart,

Marriage without confent of parents they do not
make void, but. they mul£l it in the inher;tors\ for
the children of fuch marriages are not admitted to
inherit above a third part of their parents' inlieritance.
Bacon's Ntiv AlUnlis.

An

Inhe'ritress. ». /. [from iaherilar,]

heirefs; a woman that inherits.
He haih given artificially fome hopes to Mary
Anne, Inberi^reji to the duchy of Bretagne. Bacon.

Inhe'ritrix. n.y. [from /aAfr/Voj-.] An
heirefs.
This is now more commonly
ufed, though iuheritre/s be a won! more
analogically Eiiglifh.

No feme
Should be inhiriirix in Salilce land.

Shakefp.

Ye In'He'rse. -v. a, [in and her/e.^

To in-

I

since (ofs'd from Ihoret to (hores, from land (o
lands,
Inhoffliable rocki and barren fanjt. Dryden't Virg.
I N H o's P i T A B L Y .

How you can frown, than fpcnd a fawn upon themi

more }

N I

I

Iin put an end ta their parents ufc of it ; and thli we
call i.ibttitanrr.
Laekt^

adv. [from inhoJfilabU.\

Virgil copied the ancient fculptors, in t}iat />/».*-

Unkindly to ftrangers.

table defcription of roilitaiy fury in the temple of

Of giiefts he makes them (lavei
lnbojfUably\ and kills their infant malej.
It./.

[/\ and iJo///-

INHU'MAN. adj. [inhumain, French; inhttmanu! ,\.dX.'\

Tiius terribly adnin'J the figures Ihine,
Inimitably wrought with (kill diflne.
Charms fuch as thine, inimitably great.

Berbacous; favage; cruel;

uneorapaffionate.
A jutl war may he profecuted after a very unjuft
manner; by perlidious bre;iches of ot»r word, by in'buman cruelties, and by afTalfmations.
Atterbury.
The more Ihefe praifes were enlarged, the more
inlyuman was the punilhment, and the fufferer inoic
innocent.

Svjlft.

Princes and peers attend

while we impart

I

To lajo'lN.

To command ; to enforce by authority.
See Enjoin.
Laws do not only leach what is good, but they

I .

injoia it; they have in

inhuman.^

Cruelty

.;

favagenefs ; barba-

Milttif.

Xi>ig Charles.

Death'smlnifter, not men:

f-teering with due courfe towards the ifle of Rhodec,

Have there injoin'd them with a fleet. Sbakefftare.

Ini'qjjitious. adj. [iniqueyYt, from imi<j"'fy.]
Unjuft; wicked.

INI'C^JITY.

Their .motiens alio are excited and inhiSittdy are
moderated and managed, by the obJe£ls with«ut
Btntley.
them.
iL, To prohibit ; to forbid.

I'hcre

S-wift.

Ciiirendon.

hibitio,

Pope.

Inje'ction.

[iiijtSitn,

Fr. injeSio,

a a writ to inhibitor {arbid a judge

inhidition

is

2.

mof^ commonly a writ ilTuing

'Out of a higher court Chritlian to a lower and in-

upon an appeal ; and prohibition out of the

'king's court to a court 'Ctiriftian, or to an infcrioi
Wmporal court.
Coweii.

To Inuo'lo. t. a. [ia and holi/.'\

To have

inherent ; to contain in itfelf.

3.

Boyle.

initium, Lat.]

Placed at the beginning.
In the editions, which had no more than the m/-.
tial letters of names, he was made by keys to hurt the
inoftciilive.

%

Pope.

Incipient ; not complete.
Moderate labour of the body conduces to the preof health, and cures many initial difeafes{
but the toil of the mind dcllroys health, and gens'*
rates maladies.
Harvey,
The fchools have ufed a middle term to cxprcfs
this afl'ctthon, and have oiled it the initial fear of
fer\'3tion

God.

Rogers,

•ToIni'tiate, I'.a. [initier.Vt, ».;///«, Lat,]

into a new fociety.
Piovideiice would only initiate mankind into (he
knowledge of her trealures, leaving the reft to

ufeful

employ our indijllry.

He vs'as initiated into half a dozen clubs before he
Spefiator,
was one and twenty.
No fooaer was a convert initiated, but, by an e.ify
figure, he became a new man.
AJdifon,

i^iincy.

The atft of filling the veflels with wax,
or any other proper matter, to fhew their
fhapes and ramifications, often done by
anatomifts.

i^tincj,

Truths mull have an eternal etillence in fome underftanding; 01 rather they are the fame with that

tnitablt,

Fr.]

[inimilabilis,

atlj.

Lat.

/«/-

Above imitation ; not to

be copied.

To Ini'tiate. -v, n. To do the firft part;
to perform the firft rite.
The king himfelf initiates \a the pow'r.
Scatters withquiv'ting hand the fatred flour,

Incapacity to be imitated.

Ini'mitable.
Milton.

Milton,

Fr. initialise from

part of the body.

underflanding itfelf, conficlered as variouOy reprefcntativc, according to the various modes of inimiiability or participation.
Nan is.

M«t luWWtoj US| D9I kitowo.

[ii.iltat,

M'trc's Ant. againfl Alhtifm^
i'o initiate his pupil in any part oi learning, an
Lo.'kc,
ordinary Ikill in the governoiir isenough.

Ij«Ho'sriTABLE. aefj. [ia and ho/pitable,'\
Affording no kindnefs or entertainment
All placet elfe

adj,

Any medicine made to be injefled by a
fyringe, or any other inftrument, into any

Inimitabi'lity. h. /. [from inimiiaLle,]

inhafflialle appear, and defolatc;

Ini'tiax,

to inftruft in the rudiments
of an art ; to place in a new ftate ; to put

It is difputed, whciher this light firft created be
the fame which the fun inhotdeib and caKelh forth,
ar whether it had cootiiiuance any longer than till
the fun's creation.
Ra/eigb.

to ftrangers.

Hooker,

To enter;

'I'he a£l of cafting in.

nitre.

from farihfr proceeding in the caufe depending before

ferior,

/.

This fait powdered was, by the repeated injeflion
of well-kindled charcoal, made to Halh like melted

Covertiment of the Tixgue.

(In .few.']

:him.

»,

Lat. J
1.

hibiliti^n on it, bccaufe himfelf has not ftock enough
-to maintain the trade.

lithiiitieit

to caft up.

[inhibition, French; ia-

Latin.]

He might be judged to have impofcd an envious

3.

;

Though bold in open field, they yet furround
The town with walls, and mound i»j^ on moQnd.

crime.

Till God at la(t.

2.

Glanviile.

;

Wearied with their iniquities, withdraw
His prcfence from among them.

to

Angels injt£l thoughts into our minds, and know

To throw up

iighteoulhe»

VV.int of the knowledge of God is the caufe of all

1.

our cogitations.

Prohibition; embargo.

1,

To bury;

To iNJt'cT. i;. a. [injeaus, Lat.]
1. To throw in ;
to dart in.

2.

probability of an happ*

inijuily amongft men.

Weeping they bear the mangled heaps of flain.
Inhume the natives in their native plain. Pope's Od.

4l!fe.

Inhibi'mon. »./

Lat.]

inter.

Suriil may^not be iaiiiileJ otdeaUi to any one,

lei's

Smalridge.

Wickednefs

2.

To I'nhumate. "[pj.a. [inhitmer, Fr. bumo,
J

inijuiU,

irnrighteoufnefs.

greater or

ilTue to a tedious war, according to the

v.A\o

To lN-riu'M£..

[iiii^ttitas, Lat.

who thus deal death

Milton.
have elhbliihed the Whole fyftem of all
true politenefs and refinement in converlaiion, think
myfelf moll inhumanly treated liy my countrymen.

'

is

»./.

or inijuiiy of the caufe for wliitii it was commenced.

Ten thouland fold the (in of him who flew
•His brotjier!

men were inhibited by proclamation, at the
diiTolution, fo much as to mention a parliament.
All

Injuftice ;

1.

?

Inhumanly to men ; and multiply

'I,

Not ufed.

In Shakc/peare, to join.

-z^

The Ottomites

Love which lover hurts is inhumanity.
Sidney.
The-rudcnefs of thofc who muft make up their
want of jultice with inhumanity and impudence*

O what are thefe

great velocity, wouldluddenly, did nothing /W'/^/'/it,
Ray on tbt- Creation,
be Ihattered in pieces.

Ht/ker,

1 his garden tend, our pleafant talk I'tjtin'd.

rity.

elfe.

Holdiogofihc breath doth help fomewhat toceafc
the. hiccough; and vinegar put to the noillrils, or
{argarifed, doth it alfo, tor that itisaftringent, and
inbiiitetb the motion of the fpirii.
H^on.
The rtars and planets being whirled 'about with

them a certain cundraining

force,

;

to

Fr. injunga,

[enjoiadre,

,

^ach fecial fee ing fell.

to reprefs^

nj.a.

Ptpe.
'
Broome.

Lat,]

To you the thoughts of no inhuman heart.
Pipe.
Inhum A'NlTy.v./. [iithttmattite Fr. from

And joylers inhumanity pervades.
See, where he lies, inhrrjcd in the arms
And petrities the heart.
Tbomfon's Spring.
Of the mod bloody nurl'er of his harms.
Shakefp,
Inhe'sion. »,/. [inha/io, Latin.] Inhe- Inhd'manly. o</x;. [itom itthtttnan.'] Sarence; .the ftatc of exifting inforaething
vagely ; cruel'y
barbaroufly.

French.]
•l. Toreftrain; to.hiRder;
check.

Addifont

]anus.

Wilton.

\^\'iA\Tk^'L\. adj. [from i>ttmitab/e.]
In
a manner not to be imitated ; V> a dctality; inI.H>fpilagree of excellence above imitation.
lite,Fr.'\
Want of hofpitality ; want of
A man could r.ot have been always blind who thu\
courtcfyto ftrangers.
inimitably copies rattirc.
Pope's Effa^itn Ucmgr,

Inho'spitablesess. \
Inhospita'lItv,
J

clofe in a funeral monument.

y« Inhi'bit. i;. fl. [:»^;'^», 'Latin ; irthiber,

Nt

The porfjl flione, inimitaile on earth
Milton,
By model, or by thading pencil drawn.
What is molt etccllcnt is moil inimi ehle. V'nk.
Drydtn.
And imitate the inimilabie force.

And the ftream fprinkles.
Popt'i Odyffey,
iKi'TiATi. adj. [initie, Ft. initiaiut, Lit.l
Unpraiflifed,

My (Irange and fclf-abuTe
Is the initiate fear, that wants hard ufe :

We're yet but young,

Initia'tion.
initiate.'^

3

«. /,

Shakefpeare's Mafbeth.

[iniiiaHo,

The reception,

Lat.

from

admillion, or
entratice

1

IN J

I

entrance of a new comer info an/ art oA

Ixjurioui ftrength would rapine ftill excufe,

N K

I

By ott 'ring terms the weaker mult relufe. Dryitn.
2. Guilty of wrong or injury.
Yet beauty, though injurious, haih ftrange power,

bottle at one another's heads.

'

fiate.

The ground of iniiiating or enMring men into
Chriftim life, is more fumnijrily comprifed in the

.^fier oflence returning, to regain

form-of bapjifm, the ccteroo«ji of ihij iniiialion in-

Hammond.

ftituled by Cbrilt.

thing that is taught us at our
Brnmc.
iniiialhn into ficrcd mjlleries.

SUtnce

Love once pofleft.

is. the

firft

Injucu'ndity.

n. J.

\in vaAjHCundH^.^

Uipieafantnefs.

It is natural for a

animage,

in jeft, or

hurii'it.

whetcky to opofe himto the contempt of injudkious
CiiLtJiH.

people.

Imjudi'ciously. adj. [from itijudicioui.^
With ill judgment ; not wifely..
Scaligec injudicii^i'Jly condemos this dercription.

Broime,

Inju'nction. » /. [from injoin; inj\tniim,
iBiu/:^iro,1.3t\n.J-

dommand

;

order;

precept.

Wemn iKjuxliimi,
My duty cannot fuffcr

Greiu.

The places were aciiuired byjuft title ofviflory;
and therelore in keeping of them no injury was offered.
Hayu-ard.

Smth.
Injunaion is an interlocutDry
degree out of the chantery, fomi times
to give poflcflion unto the plaintiff for
want of appearance in the defendants,
fometimes to the king's ordinary court,
and fometimes to the coun-chriftian, to
Ctrwel.

(lay proceeding.

Tal'NjURE. V,

a.

\injurier,.

Ft.

injuria,

Lat.]-

To hurt unjuftly ; "to
fervedly ; to wrong.

mifchief

undo-

upon trifling arguments.
3.

ffalti's Logick.

Annoyance..
Crkat injuries mice lod rat5 do iaihe iie!d>.

a dctigii ; then haie always whom they have onte mttrnfle.
jtir.J.

Forgivenefi to the injur'Jioxh belong ;
But they ne'er pardon who commit the wrong.

not now in ufe.
Calling ofTihe refpefls fit to be continued between
great kings, he

fell

to bitter

inveiffives againft the

Ficnch king; and fpake ail the injuries he cuuld deBacon.

vife of Charles.

Inju'stice.

It./, [injujiice, Fr. injtjlitia,
Latin.] Iniquity; wrong.
Cunning men can be guilty of a thoufand injufiicts
lealt- v/ithout

punilhed.

being

Hivift.

INK. n.f. {encre, Fr. inchiofiro, Italian.]
I. The black liquor with which men write.
you, your blacknefs will Ihiue.

Sidniy

O! Ihe's fallen
Into a pit of inlt, that the wide fca

Left heat Ihould iitjure us, hit timeljr.care
Allltox.
Hath unbefought provided.

I'NjtTRKH. ». /. [from injure.'] He that
hurts another unjuftly; one who wrongs
another..
deeds arc well t'jro'd back upon iheir authors

;

And 'gaiclt an iftjynr the revenge u jull. Btn *J'^nJ.
The upright judge will countenance ri^ht, and
difcountenance wrong, whoever be the injurrr or the
Aiierbury.
fufferer.

a

Contumelious language; reproachful apA French mode of fpeech,

pellation.

to aSieii with any inconve-

nience.

Iv

4.

Mourn boldly, my inlt ; for while (he looks upon

Dryd<x.

l.at.

Af'.r.'i'mer.

without being diiJcovered, or at

They wjthre by chance in a crowd, and without

l>juaious.

Inkles, caddilTes, cambricks, lawns : why he fongi..:

them over as they were gods and goddefles. Shakejf-;
I

twitch 'u his dangling garicr from his knee;.

He wift not when the hempen ftring I diew.

Now mine I quickly doff oiinkU blue. Gay's Fafl,
I'nklino. v,/ [This word is derived by.
Skinner from inklincktn, to found within;'
This fenfe is ftill retained in Scotland as,
/ heard not an inkling.] liint ; whifpet;,
:

intimation.

Our buhnefs -is not trnknowii to the fenate ; they
Have had ;>M«^ what we intend to do, which now
we'll lliew ihem in deeds.
Sbakefp. Coriolanus.

We

I

I

in Europe, notwithftanding all the remote difcoveries and navigations of this laft age, never heard
of any of the leaft inkling orglimpfe of this ifland.

Bacon's Neitj /Ulartis,
They had fome inkling offccret meffa^cs between
the marquis of Newcaftle andyeting Hotham.
Clarendon,

And inju r^ and outrage.
Milton.
2. Mifchief; detriment.
Many times we do injury to a caufe by dwelling

2. [In law.]

Ill

A kind of narrow fillet; a-

Riot afcends above their loftiefl tow'rs.

Whoever templed.
The cettmonics of the church are recelTary as the
hjunliiciu of lawful authority, the praflice ot the
primitive church, and the general rules of decency.

;

n. /.

adj.

[from

injury;

injuriui,

injurieiix, French.]

Unjuft; invafive of another's rights.
Till the injur ir.ui Roman did extort
&taktff.
irom ut, we were free.
uibutc ji
thit
kb» uwuic

Hath drops too few to wa(h her clean again.

Sliak.

Like madmen they hurl'd (loiies and ii;i.

Ben yon/on.
Intending to have Iry'd

The lilvertavour which you gave^

.

In ink the Ihining point I dy'd,
And drench'd it in the fable wave.
Ifa//er.
Vitriol is the aiSive or chief ingredient in ink, and
noother f.ilt will llrike the colour with galls. Brown.
I have found pern blacked aUnoft all over when 1
had a while caitied them about me in a filver ;>itcase.

Boy/e.

The fecrelary poured the Ink box all over the wriand fo drf.iced ihem.
Hour/'i f^oca/ FortJI.
He that would live clear of euvy mult lay his finger
upon his mouth, and keep his hand out of the ink
pot.
L'Ejlrange.
tings,

-

tape.

^'"g Cbarln,

{mjuria, Lat. ii^ure, Fr.]
I.- Hurt without juHice.

MUun.

To annoy

I'nkle.

what appellations would thole deferve

to itjjuricujntfs or opprcfTion.

member'd

Sbakefp.

What is more frequent than to fay a filver inkhotrii

how injurious.^ how

I'NJURY. n. f.

The high ixjmraicit, not totafte that fruit.

z.

We, and our wives a.id children, all will fight.
.

thing he prays- to repre-

fuJden neceflities cl itate, than any propcnfity eith.r

Ar.d let this tyrannous night take hold upon you.
Sijie/f.
For ftill they knew ; and ought t' have ftill rey

1.

Ere that we will fur'cr fuch a prince

To be difgraced by an inktiern mate.

who endeavour to fow the feeds of li:dition ? Stvift.
Inji;'riouslv.
adi:
[from injurious,]
Wrongfully ; hurtfully ; with inj'ullice ;
with contumely.
Nor ought he to negleS ttt vindication of his
characlur,. when it ia injurU^Jy attacked. Pope ardCay.
Inju'riousness. n. /. [from iirjurious.]
Quality of being injurious.
Some mifcarriages might cfcape, rather through

Uoaier.

T' obey in all vour diughter's hard commando ;
Though the injitn^ion be to bar my doors,

Bid hrm bring his pen and /jriC-AerJV tothe jail ; weare now to examine thofe men.
^bai^rff.

man, by direfling his prayers to

to fuppofe the

to a caufe,

The intliluiion of Cod's law is defetlbcd at being
sftabliOwd by

monly made of hoi n.

affeSion, becaufe in all refpefts
Sidnty.

contumelious mull it be to the glorious nature of God.
South.
If injurious appellations were of any advantage

took the caith for a body reguwith thereiiof the uuivertc.

lar in iu'elf, if compared

1.

telVifying

A

n./. [wif and ^«r».]portable
cafe for the inftruments of writing, com-

as commodious as a priion can be.

Jented by that image : which

A (harp witmajifiad&melhing in the wifeftman,

inked.

Inkho'rn.

A prilbn, indeed injurioui^ becaufe a prilbn, but
elfe well

both of perfons and things.
if I

:

To luK. -v. a [from the noun.] To black
or daub with ink ; as, his /ace is all tmer

Wrongful.

IsjuDi'cious. adj. [/» andyW/f/ffar.] Void
of judgment;, without judgment. Ufed

A philofopher would either think me

is ufed for any liquor with which
they write as, red ink ; green ini.

4. Detraflory ; contumelious; reproachful;

Di&,

according to form of law,

M

ArhuthnoT,

2. Ink

Tiliotf rt.

ing.

Ikju'dicable. adj. \in va^ judko, Lat.]
Not cognizable by a judge.
Injudi'cial. a^. \in znii judicial. ^ Not

nery injudicicui,

Miiton^s jigoni^fs,

Mifchievous ; unjuftly hurtful.
Our repentance is not real, becaufe wc have not
done what we can to undo our fault, or at Icalt to
hinder the injurhus confequcnces of it from proceed-

J.

N L

I could hardfy reftrain them from throwing the

Aboard a Corinthian veflel hegotan ;W;/ffgamong
the Ihip's crew of a confpiracy.
L'^irange.

I'NKMAKfR. ». /.

[ink

ATii maker.]

He

who makes ink.
I'Nity. adj. [from ink.]
1. Confifting of ink.
England bound in with the triumphant fea,

Whofe rctky (hore beats back the envious fiege
01 wai'ry Neptune, is bound in with (hame.
With inky blots and rotten parchment bonds. Shak, .«
2. Refcmbling ink.
The liquor prefcnllji began to grow pretty clear and
tranfpareiit, lofing its inkj blacknefs.

Boyle,

3. filack as ink.
'Tis not alone ray Inkf cloak, good mothet;,..

Nor culloinary fuiis of lolemn black,
That can denote me truly.
Siake/f. Hamlet

I'fiLAND. adj. [in and land.] Inieriour.;
lying remote from the fea.
In this widoiW.rW fea, th.it hight by name,

my wand'ring fliip I row.

Spcnfer.

Coodly laws, like liiile inland feas,
even ftiips upon their waters.
.\n old religious uncle of mine was in

will carry

'J'he idle lake,

Spenfcr.
his youth,

an inl,ind man.
Shakefp. As you like it.
fublliiute (hincs brightly as a king,
Until a king be by ; ajid then his Itate
Empties itfelf, as doth an inland bro k^
Into the main of waters. Shakefp. Merch. o/V^emce,

A

.

.

This perfon did publilh a pamphlet printed in
England for a general excife, or inland ialy. Stuift.

I'nland. »./. Interiour or midlaniJ parts.
Out of thcfe fmall beginnings, gotten near to themountains, did

tliey

fptead tliemlilves into the ;b-

land.

Spenfer,

They ofthofe marches (hall defend
Our inland from the pilfering borderers. Siateff,
The reft were all
>

Far to th' inland sn'u'i, about the wallj

Of I'andamonium.
r.M L A N D E R. «. /. [from ittlattd. ]
remote from the fea.

Milton,

DwelJci

M

1 N

Secor'd fr«m all approaches but a wife;
If then we fly, the caulc admits no doubt,
None but an inmate foe could forie us out.

B<au<it,

H'ldlaoJ inhabiters of this ilUiiJ.

fa Inlapidate. ti. a. [mzniHiapi'lii, Lat.J

To make ftoney; to turn to ftotic.
Some inturtl fpring-watcrs will inhfiJMf Wood

remotcft from the fiirface.

Which on my inrntji vitals prey,
AJdifiH oH Uiily.
Comparing the quantity of light rcflcdcd from the
feveral rings, I found that it was moft copious from
the firft or Ininofi, and in the eitterior rings became

Look, how the iioor oiheav'n
Is thick iitUiJ with patens of bright gold. SLiir/f.

A faphirc throne, i/i/aiii with pure

Nctmoli.
•..;
lefsandleCi,
He fends a dreadful groSn ; the faplds around
Through all their inmiji hollow caves refour)d. Pope
Gvlliver'i Travels.
1 got into the irtmujt court.

Miltcn.

Amber, and colours of the (howVy arch.

The timber bears a great price with the cabiiict^J'timcrmakois, when large, (or MayitigHere clouded canes midft heaps of toys are touivd,
Cyi.
And inlaid tweeier-cafes ftrow the ground .

INN.

Sea-girt illes.

That like to rich and various gems inlay
n. /.

inlaid ;

[from

Sidney

Matter

Now day is fpent,
Therefore with me ye may take up your im.
Fairy ^cen.
The Weft .yet glimmers with fome ftreaks ol day,

wood formed to inlay.

Under foot the violet.
Crocus, and hyacinth, with rich inhy
Broider'd the ground.
Tol-Uhh'-w. -u.a. [r« and /rtTv.J

Now fpurs the lated traveller apace

MUMi,

Innermost,

have them to
It (hould be a great incongruity to

I'mlet. n./. \in and fo.] Paffage j place of

2.

;

couple together ;
der one.
,
She through the porch »t»d inltt of eachfenle
Dropt in ambrofial oils till flie leviv'd.
^""J-

mmn.

WW

ufed for the townhoufes
which great men refided when they at-

3. It was anciently

•'f
is
which

irl

A

much the better,

for the

imaginary plealurc of a

^'•''%-

Itraightlhore.

^
^
Inlrii amongft broken lands and iflands.

tUn.

«I'ki.y. adj. [trom /«.] Interiour; internal;

Clergymen mull not keep a tavern, nor a judge be
^aylur's Rule vf living h-ily.
an innkeeper,
faflious itrnhfifer was hanged, drawn, aud

A

fecret.

Of.

We were not fo inquifitive ahout iKe inn as the irotkcepcr \ and provided oar landlord's principlei were
found, did not take any aoiice of the ftaUnefs of his
Addifon,
provilions.

1'nnocenge. \
I'nnockkcy. j

Thou wculd'll as foon go kindle lire with fnow.
As feck to quench the lire of love with words. .VAj«.

iNi-y. a</t/- Internally J within; feeretly

;

in the heart.

Her heart with joy unwonted /Ji/y fwcU'd,

As feeling woiid'rous comfort in her weakcj eld.
Shahjp. Temfift.

Whereat he inly rag'd, and as they talk'd,
Smote him into the midrilVwith a Hone,
Mtllcn.

That beat out life.

Thefc growing thoughts my mother loon perceiving

,

By words at times caft forth, inly rcjbic d.

mUlott.

The foldiers (liout around with gen'rous rage

He prais'd their ardor: inly pleas'd to fee
^•„Lft.

Daiine.

Ininutti arc thole that be admitted to dwell for
aiioihcr man, though in
.their money jointly wii!i
rooms of his manfion-houfe, palling in and

fewral
'^'^'"
out by one door.
So Ijake the enemy of mankind, ipclos d
In ferp«ni, inmatf bad ! and towaid Eve

,.,.,,,

AJdreffcd the way.
There he dies, and leaves his race
Crowing into a nation; and now grown,

Subjcrted to a fe^uentkiiig, who fccks
Tb itop their overgrowth, as inmW'guelh

lit

to inn.

It will help

;

and acc^unlcj the uprightcll dealer on
Hoivel.

Wirh eloquence Innate his tongue was arm'd
Though harlh the precept, yet the people charm 'd.
Drydm.
"2. hmatt is
ufcd in the following pafliigc

truth and upright innocency fail me,
Shakefp. HenrylV,
my mailer.

to the king

3. Harmleffiicfs ; innoxiotifnefs.
The air was calm and fercne ; none of ifiofc tu*
multuarv motions and *contii(5)s of vapours, which
llie mountains and the winds caiifc in ours; 'twas
fuited to a golden age, and to the firH innitcency of
Burnet's Theory.
nature.

I

gravitation,

or

fpontaneous

altra^ion,

cannot poflibly be imuite and clfential to matter.
Bcntlcy.

urge this childhood proof,

Bec.iufe whatlollows is puix* innocence. Shakefpeare,
laugh at the malice of apes, as well as at the

We

/«n!/ir«« of children.

Timple.

I'NNOGENT. adj, [innocent, Fr. itinoam,
Lat.]

.

Pure from mifchicf.

I.

Something

You may deferve ol him through me asd'wifdom.
To oflfcr up a weak, poor, Innocent lamb,

for irrbeitnt. Innate in perfons, hiheicnt in

Sbakefp. Macietb.
Mfltcti,
VVreck on innocc/ii frail man his lofs.

T' appeafc an angry God.
Z.

Free from any particular guilt.
Good madam, keep yourfelf A-ithin yourfelf
The man is innocent Skakefp. Ant. and Clei.patra;
The peafant, inm^cent of all ihcfc ills,
With crooked ploughs (he fertile fallows tills,
.

Inna'teness. ». /. [from

innate.'\

The

quality of being innate.

<W///e»'< I'ariJift Ufi,

It'

I'll

degree of weaknefs.

earth.

things.
Mutual

me nothing

To plead my inmum-e for that dy* is on me
Which makes my «liit'ft p.irt black.
Stakcff.

Latin.]

Inborn ; ingenerate ; natural ; not fuperadded ; not adfcititious, Itinated is
not proper.
The Drulnian hath been cried up for an Imated

Millm.

\

Freedom ffom guilt imputed.

2.

\ adj. [ixne, French, i/inatiu, 4. Simpfitity of heart, perhaps with fomc

INNATED. J

,•

Dryd^n's Kn,ght's Tah.

I'nmate, n.f. {ill animate.]

Tco Bumcrous.

!

Mortimer.

integrity,

untainted

Till<ilf»i,

Ilowfocver the laws made in that parliament did
bear good fruit, yet the fubfidy bare a f >uit that proved
harlh and bitter, all was Inned at laft into the king's
Bacon's Hcfiry VII.
|,jni.

INNA'TE.

I've /rt/)! wept.

Or (hould have fpokc ere this.

[inmceiKe, Fr. iaao-

Rliliox,
Simplicity and fpotlefs Imiocenee.
What comfort does overflow the devout foul froia
a confcioufnefs of its own innaccxcf and integrity

He that ears my land, fpares my team, and gives
Sbakrfp.
me leave to /.;« the crop.

Mow clover or r)C-gra(i, and make it

f.

cemia, Latin ]

integrity.

a. To houfe; to put under

^ftnfcr,

n<.

Purity from injurious aftion ;

1.

cover.

Did'ft thou but know the inly touch of love,

.iJdi/cn's Fr,eiji,IJ:r.

quartered.

To take

In ihyfelf dwell
/w« any where; continuance maketh hell.

To Inn.

and ieeper,] One
keeps lodgings and provjfions for
»./. [inn

the entertainment of tra\ellers.

tended the court.

To Inn. t. ». [from the noun.}
up temporary lodging.

A

;

jlin/.

who

l.ocke,

rot received from one of ihefe intelu
ourcomfine bargain indeqd, to part with all
fo
lodioiis ports, which the greater the iWrf is are

JVcuton.

fea.

lNNKE*ErER.

whence we ftill call the col-

leges of common law;a»/ of court.
Go foirie and pull down the Savoy; others to tlie
Sljaieff).
of court; down with them all.

It

mail
an innkeeper,
I'nninos, n./. Lands recovered from the

A houfe where ftudcnts were boarded
and taught

1

unI find their dimenfions brought

inmofl.]

who keeps an inn

Lackc.

year's rambling from one inn to another.

lefs proper than

I^opr.

feems
Remoteft from

inner.

Innho'luer »./. [///« and hc/d.]

One tn«y learn more here in one day, than in a

Baccn.

[from

the dirtance of lix feet from the fpcculum, where the
rings appeared, as to obfcure one oi*'tVvo of rhe tA*

Dry den.

make laws, who themfelves were not iiilaii-ed.

adj.

the outward parr.
The reflcded beam of light would be fo broad at

Like pilgrims to th' appointed phce v.e tend;
The world's an inn, and death the journey's end.

of outlawTy or attainder.

1 defire any one to aflign any fimple idea,

Then to his inner court his guelU convey 'd.

St.tkeff. Machcih,

To gain the timely inn.

To dear

jngrefs ; entrance.
Doors and windows, inlets of men and of light,

Grrtf.

Thus, fcii'dwithfacred fear, the monarch pray'dj

Bfimi/? rings.

But, after dc.ith, the trial is to come,
When bed (hall be to ihcm thatlived belt. Fairy i^.

Millon.

verb.]

the

to he uhdcrfVood only of the outer part ; for the inner
part, whereof the papill.'C arc compofed, is mufcular.

How all this is but a fair inn.
Palmer, quoth he, dcuh is an equal doom
Togood and bad, the common inn of reft j

The unadorned bofom of the deep.

Addi/on's Spcajlar,

The kidney is a conglomerated gland, which it

/. [inn, Saxon, a chamber.]

Of fairer guefts which dwell within.

bodies ; to variegate.

I.NUA'Yk

ti.

Sftn/er,

This attraiSs the foul.
Governs the >>"nT man, tlie nobler part

A houfe of entertainment for travellers.

8.

To make variety by being inferred into

a.

But 111' el6u knight with wonder all the way
Did feed his eyei, and Gll'd his inter thought.

And melt my very foul away.

Siaifjf. CymMinf.

To inlay he'a»'n with ftarJ.

outward.

MlltM.
Tiiat other o'er the body only reigns.
Many families are eOablilbed in the Weft-InBicsj
and feme difcovcrcd in the I'wirr pari! of America.

Thefilent, llow, confuming fires,

Thev are worthy

DryJeil.

Interiour; not

,

Riling iigbs and tailing teais,

f«rted into the ground or fubllratum.

[from »>.]

'

i)hakcff.

That (how too well the warm de(ir«J,

with different bodies in-

To diverfify

adj.

Tis you mult: dig with mattock and with fpade.

And pierce the w/^a/T centre of tiic earth.

7i Inla'y. V. a. [ill and Agi.j
I.

nvtim ;
Deepeft. wit

Inmost, adj. [from /«.]

*««'•

^

'

If ]r«u (a hard a toil will underulcc,
As twice to pafs ih' innavigable lak<(.

I'nner.
DryJrn.

j

whereof the
fo that you Aall fee one piece of wooJ,
and the
pirt aVjve the water lliall continue wood,
kind of
part under the water fliall be turned into a
irarelly rtonc.

N N

I

Home It the facted refuge of our lifci

"The time name is given uiuo the inlamicrsi or

Inn v'vic ABLE. adj. [;>»if(»v/(»w^»7(>, Latin.]
Not to be paffcd by failing.
<

And the round year with daily labour fills.
Unhurtful: harmlefs in eflefts.

Drydctt,

%,

The

\

N N

I

I

The fp«r
Sung :nK:cen:, and fpent its forct ia air.

Fcft.

\\ e may fafely ufe purgatives, they being benign,

So pufc an :r.nccent as •^•it fame lamb.

and oi innoxhu! qualities.
Brown's l^uigar Err.
Sent by the better genius of the night.
Innoxious gleaming on the horfe's mane,
The meteor fits.
tham/an's Autumn.

F,.xtry i?.

Thou haft kill'd tlie IwrcKll inmcent.
Shjktfp. Olhello.

If murth'ring innxttrrs be executing.

Why, then tliou art an executioner. Saie/f, H. VI.
2>

A natural

Pure from crimes.
Stranger to civil and religious rage,

inttocer.rsATi excluded by natural defers,

The good man walk'd innoxious through his age.

ihsker,

I'n.vocently. adv. [from ;/r/toff///.]
1. Without guilt.

P^fe.

The humble and contented man pleafcs himfelf
innoc€nlly and cafily, while tire ambitious man attempts to pleafe others lintully and difficultly. South.

2.

2.

an idiot.

;

Inno'xiously. adv. [from iamxious.]
1. Harmlefsly; without harm done.
2. Without harm fuffered.
Animals, that can innoxiouj/y d]ge(i thefc poifons,

With fimplicity; with fillinefs or im-

become antidotal to tlicpoifon digefted.

Ikno'xiouskess.

Without hurt.
Balls 1^ liis feet lay innocently dead;

INNO'CUOUS.

adj.

{innocuu!,

Lat.j

medicines the motl elfc<£tual.

In.nue'ndo.

». /.

[innuendo,

from

numerabilu, Lat.]

It

I.

z.

Ye cedars ! with innumetable boughs
Hide me where 1 may never fee them more. Milton.

To bring in fomething not known be-

In

lines, whi;h appear

One that

have been at the head of the inocuUtors.

of an equal length, one

Men purfue fome few principles which thejr hare
chanced upon, and care not to inmvute, which draws

vaknown inconvenieDCic.

Baan.

Formtr things

Are fct afide like abdicated kings
And every moment alters what is done,
And inntn/aiei fome ait 'till then unknown.

Locke.

Inxova'tio.v
innavaie.]

n.

/

And in thick thelter of innum'rous boughs,
Enjoy the comfort gentle lleep allows.

To I N o'c U L A T E

trte :

innoculate therefore at the

2.

Giving no uneafinefs

3.

Harmlefs; h u rtle fs ; iimocent.

;
caufinguo terror.
Should infants have taken ofti:ncc at any thing,
mixing pleafant and agreeable appcirances with it,
mult be ufed, 'till it be grown inoffen/ne to them.
Lockt,

another ftock.

For drink, the grape

She crulhes, inoffenjive mull.

Virtue cannot fo inoeuUte our o!<Vftock, but we
(h^ll relilh of it.

Shakeffiare' s Hamlet.

Thy inojfcnjivf tatires never bite.

Thy ftock is too much out of date,

5 for time is the grcatcit innovator
and if
time ol couric alters things to the worlV, and wil'dom
and council (hall not alter them to the better, what
ihall be the end >
BMon', KJfay,.
:

One that makes changes by introducing
novelties.

He

counfcis them to detcft and perfccute all inno.
«<irtrr of divine worihip.
Houtb,

Lat.]

Inoculate carnation.

Inocula'tio.'*. n.f.

CUaveland.

I.

from

Dtydcn.

Hark, how the cannon, inojfenfxte now,
Gives figns o^gratulalion.
Phillips.

Cltaveland.

\inoculatio, Lat.

inoculate.]

Milton.

V\'ith whate'cr gall thou fcl'ft thyfelf to wliie,

Where lilici, in a lovely brown,

I attach thee as a tnhcious innovator,
4> foe to ih" publlck wcjI.
Hbukrfj,. Corhlaniii.
He thit will iK>i apply new remedies, mull expeif

[junoidm,

However inojjenjrue we may be in 01 her pans rf
cur conduit, it we are found wanting in this trial of
our love, we (hall bc dilbwued by Cod as traitors.
Kogert,

E-velyn.

For tender plants t' inoculate.

adj.

A lltanger, inoffetijive, unprovoking. tletlivotj.

But various are the ways to change the ftate.

ianovalt ."^

Ariutinot on Alimcnti.

tion.

commencement o<

To plant, to bud, togratt, to inoculate.
Drydrn.
To Ino'culats, -v. a. To yield a bud to

A. An introduflor of novelties.

INNO'XIOU!).
Vot. I,

and octilus,

pid, inodorous liquor.

See Lvoculation.

this month.

[mmyvattur, Fr. from

ew evils

Pofe's Odyjf.

not affediing the nofe.

Inoffe'nsive. <ja'/. [imnA offenjive.]
'
1. Giving no fcandal; giving no provoca'.

Ndr are the vf.ys alike in all

fiioHer.

n. /.

i;. ». [i/toculi, in

How to ingrafT, hovwKo inoculate.
May's Firgil.
Now is the fcafon for ihe budding of the orangc-

kut levity and want ot experience maketh'aut into

Iknova'tor.

.

tife inoculation.

of novelty.
The love ot things ancient doth argue ftayednef;
It were gi«d that men in innnjatians would follow
the example of time iilelf, which indeed iniiovaieth
(really, but (juietly and by degrees. Bacon't Ejfayi.
Crea' changes may be made in a government, vet
the form coi.tuiue ; but large inti-rvals of time mull
pifs between every fuch inmvaikn, enough to make
It of a piece with the conftitution.
S-wi/i.

odoratus, Lat.]

The white of an egg is a vifcous, unaflive, infi.

Lat.]
To propagate any plant by inferting its bud mto another ftock ; to prac-

Fr.

inncvjtiini.

fcent;

'Twoflid be fome folace yet, fome little chcaring,
In this clofe dungeon of innumerout boughs. Alilton.
I take the wood.

Dryd.

from
Change by the intrududUon
[innu'valio/t,

Freind's HiJI. of Pkyjick.

Ino'dorate. adj. [in and
Having no fcent.

lNNtJMERABl.Y. ad-v. [from innumerable.]
Without number.
Whites are mote inoiorate than flowers ef the fame
kind coloured.
Bacon's Natural Hijlory,
Iknu'me»ous. «<^'. [innuwrus.'La.i.] Too
Iko'dokovs. adj. [imdorut, L^t.] Wanting
many to be counted

Every man cannot diHinguilh betwixt pedantry
and fortry ; every man therefore is not ht to innmate,

DtyJen.
2. To change by introducing novelties.
From his attempts upon the civil power, he proceeds to itinovatt God's worihip.
Houih.

of

One who propagates the fmall-pox by
inoculation.
Had John a Gaddcfden been now living, lit wouIJ

may be longer than the other by innumerjtle pan?.

fore.

the inoculation

praftifes

trees,

Shakefftart's Henry VUI.
Cover me, ye pines,

novo, Lat.]

is

Inocula'tor. n.f. [from inoculate.'^

You have fordignities.

To I'iNNOVA'rE. 1: a. [wmver, Fr. in-

evident, by in'-.cuhticn,

that the Imalleli
quantity of the matter, mixed with the blood, produccth the difeafe.
Aibuthmt.

Not to bc counted for

multitude.
You have fent innumerihle fubftance
To furnilh Rome, and to prepare the ways

^'g^y on BoJUt.

'Hie pradice of tranfplanting the fmalL.
pox, by infufion of the matter from ripened puftules into the veins of the uninfedled, in hopes of procuring a milder fort
than what frequently comes by infection.
Qjiincy.

Sv.ift.

In.vu'merable. adj. [innumerablf,'Yt. in-,

(Uth little harm ; for that inmcuiufncft of the etfeft
makes, that, although in itfelf it be as great as the

2.

2.

Vtjirunge.

Your hints that Stella is no chicken j
Your innuendoes, when you tell us,
That Stella loves to talk with leliows.

Inno'cuousnfss. n. J. [from iunecueus.'\

.

Miller.
In the ften of Elaiana they al! met, and came to
be ingrafted all uj^on one llotk, mod of them by ino.
cuUtion.
lh'j.et.

Purfue your trade of fcandal.picking.

do innoru^vjly feed upon hellebore, or rather
fomclimes but medically ufe the fame.
Btrwn.

round the e)e of the

bud.

innuo,

Menrury, though employed on a quite contrary
errand, owns it a marriage by an innuendo. Dry Jen.

tion,

other, yet *iis little obfcrvcd.

care not to bind

terncd.

Whether quails, from any peculiarity of conllitu-

The blow which (hakes a wall, or beats it down,
and kills men, haih a greater edcil on the mind
than that which penetrates into a mud wall, and

the ftock, tie them clofely round, taking

innoxious.]

and forbid murder, were to be indidled for a Ubtllous
innuendo upon all the great men that come to be con-

innocuous.^

Harmleflnefi.

[from

Latin.]
An oblique hint.
As if the commandments, that require obedience

Grrw.

Inno'cuousi.y. ad-v. [from
Without mifchievouseficfts.

h. /.

Harmleflhefs.

Coxrley.

Harmlefs in effefls.
The moil dangerous poifons, (kilfully managed,
may be made not only innacubusy but of all other

1.

and fo having exaAly fitted the bud to

Brmi'n's f^uigjr Errours.

prudence.
3.

N O

I

too deep, left you wound the ftock : then
having cut offthe leaf from the bud, leaving the footftalk remaining, make a crofs
cut about half an inch below the eye,
and with your knife flit olFthe bud, with
part of the wood to it.
1 his done, with
yoijr knife pull off that part of the wood
which was taken with the bud, obferving
whether the eye of the bud be left to it
or not ; for all thofe buds which lofe their
eyes in ftripping are good for nothing:
then railing the bark of the ftock, thruft
the bud therein, placing it fmooth between the rind and the wood of the ftock

InnoxhuM flames are often feen on tte hair of
men's heads and horfes' manes.
iJigby.

I'nnocent. n.f,
1. One free from guilt or harm.
That e'er did lift up eye.

N O

Free from mifthievous eifefts.

.

4.

Uncrabarrafled 4

without

flop

or

ob-

A

ftrudtiun.
L.itin mode of lj)ecch.
From hence a palTagc broad.
Smooth, cafy, in ff ijiiie, down to bclL
Milan.

upon all forts of
and upon oranges and jaf- Inoffe'nsivkly. adv. [from iaoffenftve.]
mines. Chufe a fmooth part of the ftock;
Without ap^arance ol harm; without
then with your knife make an horizontal
harm,
cut acrofs the rind of the ftock, and from Inofte's-si VENE3S. w./. [from inoffeiif.i'e.]
the middle of that cut make a flit downHarmkirnefs; freedom from appearance
wards about two inches in length in the
of harm.
form of a T; but bc careful notlo cut Injffi'cious, adj. [wand officious,] Not
Inoculation is praftifed

ftonc

frtiit,

•

6 P

civil

N QL

1

I

the

civil; not attentive to

^

.

.

Notexpefted.

ft.]

,

Unfeafonable ; inconvenient.

inordinaticn.
They become very

were not

Ir-

the former pofuion.
The youthful hero, with returning light,
Rofe anxious from th' inquietudes of night.

It is fafer to ufe

regularity ; diforder.
finful

by the excefs, which
imrdlnacy lets

in their nature : that

fo

Go-vefumcnl of the Tongue.

Ino'rdikate. adj. [in and ordinatus, Lat.
diforderly;

|

deviating from

right.
Thefc people were wifely brought to allegiance;
but being ftraight left unto their own inordinate life,
Sfen/er.
they fotjot what befoi; they were taught.

Thence raifc
"Vain hopes, vain arms, iniyJinate dtlires.

Blown up with high conceits engeiid'iing pride.
Miltm.

From inordinate \oit and vain fear comes all unTajlor'sGuldelo Devolion.

quietnefs of fpirit.

Ino'rdinately. ad'v. [from inordinalc]
Irregularly ; not rightly.

As foon as a man dtfircs any thing inordinalely,
Taylor.
he is prcfenlly dilquicted in himfelf.
Ino'rdinateness. »./. [ixom inrndinate.]

Want of regularity

;

intemperance of any

liind.

/ [from inordinate,']
deviation from right.
Irregularity
Schoolmen and cafuifts, having too much philo-

Inqrdina'tion.

».

;

conceptions, that they fometiaies came forth in fcr-

pcntine fliapcs.

Their caufcs and axioms are fo full of imagina-

Bacon.

farts of matter.

fcft bodies, 15 fitly called by fome of the ancients

This fifth conjugation ol nerves is branched by
ho/culaling v/ith nerves. Derlam's Pliyfco-Tlieol.

Inoscula'tion. ». /. [from inofculate.]
Union by conjunftion of the extremities.
The almoft infinite ramifjcations and inofculations
of all the feveral forts of veffcls may eafily be detected

,

!';<

QU E s T. n.f. [enquefte, French ;

V.ay.

Inqui'rable.

jury, is the raoft ufual trial of all canfes,
both civil and criminal; for in civil
caafes, after proof is made on either fide,
fo much as each part thinks good for

himfelf, if the doubt be in the faft, it is

:

To a(k queftions; «o make fearch;

.

You have oft inquir'd
Slialieffeare.

We will call the damfel, and inquire at bw mouth.
Cen.

They begai» 10 inquire among themfelves, which

inquietus,

iTant of ^uiet ;

Difturbed Itate;
Lat.]
attack on the quiet.

Organs involv'd and latent life difplays.

Lulte. xxii. 23.

He Tent Hadoram to king David, to inquire ofhn
welfare.

I

Cl>ron. xviii. 10.

It is a fubjefl of a very noble inquiry, to inquire

o/"ihe more I ublle perceptions;

font is another key
Bacon.

to open nature, as well as the houfe.

ufed with into when fomething is
already imperfeilly known.
It may defcrve our beft (kill to inquire into thofc
rules, by which we may guide ourjudgment. Souiii.

2. It is

The rtep-dame poifon for the fon prepares
Dryden.
The fon inquires into his father's years.
3. Sometimes with of.
Under their grateful Ihade iEneas fat

The left youn^ Pallas kept, fix'd to his fide,
And oft gf" winds inquir'd, and ^the tide.

tions.

Inivui'rv. n.f. [from inquire.]
Interrogation; fearch by queftlon.

1,

The men which were fent from Cornelius hal
made inquiry for Simon's houfe, and Itood before
A9s.
the gate.

Examination ; fearch.

2.

This exadlnefs is abfolutely neceflary in Inquirirt
knowledge, and in controverfic*

With after when fomething
in

which cufefor is

As to the inquiry about liberty, 1 think the ijueftion is not proper, whether the will be free, but wheLocke,
ther a man be fiee ?
Ijjcke,
I have been engaged in phyfical r/>yB(n«.

or a bat, to make their yet imperfeift ideas of it more
Locke.
complete.
Judgment or opinion, in a remoter fenfe, may be
called invention : as when a judge ot a phyfician

makes an exaft inquiry into any caufe.

Judicial inquiry.
When he maketh inquifitim for blood, he remembcreth them he forgetteih not the cry of the
:

When inquifilion was oude of the matter, it wa(

inquire after the right way.

Lode.

is
5. With aieut, when fuller intelligence

deli red.

To thofe who inpiired aliout me, my lover would
anfwcr, that I was an old dependent upon his family.
" vfi.
Su/ifi

To make examination.
Awlul Rhadamanthus rules the Hate

He hears and judges each committed crime.

To Inquire, v. a.

To aik about; to feekout: as, he inquired the way.

2.

To call;

Obfolete.
to name.
Ciouic had his portion from the nftj

Efib. ii. 23.

found out.

With much feverity, and ftrifi inquijition, were
punilhed the adherents and aiders of ijic late rebels.

Bacon's Henry VJ|.

Though it may be impofiible to recolledl every
yet you are fo far to exercife an inquifitioit
upon yourfclf, as, by obferving Icffer paVticulars, you
may the belter difcovcr what the corruption of your
Taylor,
nature fways you to.

failing,

Thefe'men will be your judges : we moll (land

The inquifilion of their raillery

or

likewife

./lil't '». UInquirefor one Saul of Tarfus.
They are more in danger to go out of the way,
who are marching under a guide that will miUeaJ
them, than he that is likelier to be prevailed on to

1.

Pf. ix. iz.

humble.

By your good leave,
loll

is

Grev>.

[iaquifition,¥t. iaqui'

Jitio, Latin.]
1.

On our condition.
2.

Seutierne.

Examination ;

difcuflion.

We were willing to make a pattern or precedent of
Bacon's N.iiural Hifitry,
an txiQ. inquijition.

ufed.

6.

Locke,

about truth.

Dryi. Mn.

miffing;

Blacimort,

One who interrogates; one vpho quef-

2.

Inquisi'tion. n.f.

of them it was that itiould do tliis thing \

Jnqui 'etude, n.f. [inquietude, Yx.inquietudo,

Muttli.

Herod intjuired of them diligently.

Inquires into the manner, place, and time. Dryden.

South.

'hi^t inquirers by their glaffcs find.
That ev'ry infedt of each diCferent kindi
In its own egg, chear'd by the folar rays.

It isareal/«yK/V)', concerning the nature of a bird

After th« flicpherd that complain'd of love.

Cvwel.

This is the laborious and vexatious inqueft that the
foul mull make after fcience.

to

with of

exert curiofity on any occafion:
before the perfon afked.

4.

Lockt,

who neither affirm nor deny, but examine.

after philofophical

quire, Lat.]

finds the faft thus; then is'the law thus,

and fo we judge.
3. Enquiry,; fearch; ftudy.

the pans of matter are united by ligaments.
Glanville'i Sceffis,
Xhis is a queflion only of inquirers, notdifputers,

That

ad}, [^tam inquire.]

which inquiiition or inqueft may be
made.
To INQUI'RE.f.w. [enquirer, French; in-

referred to the difcrction of twelve indifferent men, impanelled by the flierifF;

and aj they bring in their verdift fo judgment paffes for the jiidge faith, the jury

Denham,
And itlell offers to th' accepting hand.
Superficial inquirers may fatisfy themfelves that

ot

injuijitio,

The inqueft of jurors, or by

a, [In law.]

Bacon.

laftion.

Latin.
I . Judicial enquiry or examination.
What confufion of face (ball we be under, when
that grand ini^ueji begins; when an account ot our
opportunities of doing good, and a particular ot our
Atterhury.
ufe or mifufe of them, is given in (

.'

What's good doth open to th' inquireu ttand,

in.

quination, or iocoiicoaion, \*hich is a kind of puire-

[;« and ofculum,

To unite by appofition or contaft.

violent difpules and eager inquirers into what day
Braii-n's f^u/g. Err,
of the month the world began

of experience, and conas they are mere inqainatiom
"

We come to the loweft and the mod inorganical

by glafles.

Corruption ; pollution.

tion, and fo infeded with the old received theories,

Soull},

univerfally Cnful.

Inorca'nical. adj. [in and organicaL]
Void of organs or inftrumental parts.

Lat.]

Broivn.

Inquina'tion. »./ [inquinatio, Lat. from

fophy to clear a lye from that intrinfick inordinadon
end deviation from right reafon, inherent in the
nature of it, held that a lye was abfolutely and

To Ino'sculate. 'V. n.

What faiisfaflion may be obtained from thofe
Pofe.

oval
ferpcnts, that venemous food fo hjuinated their

inqiiinate.]

examiner ; one curious and

inquiQtive.

to corrupt.

;

Searcher ;

1

Irolio.r.

Bacon.
cod it not,
The middle aflion, which produceth fuch impcr-

lift diftemper'd, difcontented thoughts

At

To pollute

novf more commonly written a»«

quire.

rNQUlNATE. -v. a. [injuino.hat.]

To

is

Inqui'rer. n.f. [from inquire.]

An old opinion it was, that the ibis feeding upon

tliem in oppofilion to God's defignation.

Irregular;

3. It

being
Iron, that has Hood long in a window,
water,
thence taken, and by a cork balanced in
a
bewray
where it may have a free mobility, will
kind of In'fuietude and difcontentment 'till it atiain

.

Ino'rdinacy. «./. [ixova inordinate.]

!>fenfef,

ffonon.

Lat.J

{inopportuvut,

Inopportu'ne. ai/J.

N Q^

Now Cantium, which Kent we commonly inquirr,

m

honour
fetvince abroad, he found himfcli engaged
hiia at home from any farther injui'iude.
to fiipport
''

[impinatus, lAt. impiue

Ino'pikate. adj.

I

The which he call'd Canutium, forWi hire.

Having had fuch nperience of his fidelity and ob-

accommoda-

tion of others.

N Q^

m

A

manner of proceeding
[In law.]
matters criminal, by the office of the
Cmvel.
judge.
countries
4. The court eftablifhed in fome
fubjeft to the pope for the detection of
3.

herefy.

One kifs of her's, and but eighteen words,
Coriei,
Put down the Spanilh inquijition.
INQyl'^ITIVE. adj. [inquiftlivus, Latin.]

Curious ; bufy in fearch ; aftive to pry
with about, after, into, 01
into any thing
of, and foraetimes to.
:

My boy at eighteen years became ircjuijitive
Siiakeff. Comedy of Errcurl.
After his brother.
This idlenefs, together with tear ol imminent
mifchicfs, have been the caufc that the Irilh were
ever the mod inquifaive people after news of any
nalioa ta the world.

DaT.-ift.

H»

I

I

N R

rfilferent and

innocent commands,

to give all

*rayijr.

That takes the reafon prifoiier ?

SoM/h.

INSA'TIABLE. adj.
infatiabh, French.]

Jnqm^^tive of fights, ftiU longs in vaia

To find him in tiic number of the fiain.

Dryjtn.

Of that infatiat, Edward.

Hale's Origin of Mankind.

Infcrilie a verfe on this relenting ftone.

great tribe of animals : they are called
in the middle o£
their bodies, whereby they are cut into
two parts, which are joined together by a
fmall ligature, as we fee in wafps and

common flies.
Bead,

J.

my name.

To aflign fo a patron without a formal
dedication.
One ode which pleafed me in the reading, I have
attempted

to tranrfate in

Pindaritk verfe ;

'lij

that

which is infcribed to the prefent Earl of Rochefter.

tio,

I.

Latin.]

Something written or engraved.

This avarice of praifc in time to come,
Thofe long inferiptions ciowdcU on the tomb.

By proof we feel

Our pow'r fufficient todifturb his heav'n,
And with perpetual inroadt to alarm.

r^.

I.

at all the promife of the infcriptlon.

J.

[In law.]

Broun.

An obligation made io wri-

ting, whereby the accufer binds himfelf to

undergo the fame puniflimoit, if he fhall
not prove the crime which he objcfts to

Miltinu

.

Any tnmg fmall or contemptible.

The kings, and awful fathers of mankind
And fome with whom compar'd, your infeO tribe»
;

Are but the beings of a fummer's day.

Tbomfo/t,

Insecta'tor. n.f. [from inJeHor, Latin.]

One that perfecutes or harrafles with pur'"'»•

Inse'ctile.

adj.

Dia.
Having

[from infeS.I

the nature of infefts.
InfiEiile animals, for want of blood, run out all
into legs.
Bacon.
Insecto'loger. n.f. \infea and A«y(&-.]
One who ftudies or defcribes infetfb.
word, 1 believe, unauthorifcd. *
The infedl itfelf is, according to modern /J^^i>«
/o^fi/ofthe ichncuroon-fly kind.
Derham,

A

Insecu're. adj. [In and ftrcure.]
1. Notfecure; not confident of fafety.
He is liable to a great many inconveniences ewrjr
moment of his Hfe, and is continually in/ecure not
only of the good things of this life, but even of lil<»

Title.
Joubertus by the fame time led our eipeftation,
whereby we reaped no advantage, it aofwerin' fcarce

worm, iurft enter none.

In ancient times the facred plough employ'!

Dryden.

,

Locke,

bird, infe&, or
,

2.

Pope,

To mark any thing with writing; as, I
infcribed the (lone with

^af»«.

\ttijanus, Latin.]

1 .

iitfeas from a feparation

And from each other catch the circling ray.
Gay,
Drydin.
_,
J'kkoao. »,/. [/« and roW.]
Incurfion ; 4. To draw a figure within another.
In the circle infcribet fquare.
fudden and delultory invafion.
Many hot inroads
I^o'es to Creech's Manlliist.
They mike in Italy. Sbahfp. Ant. and Cleopatra. Inscri'ptioN. tt./.\infcripUon, Fr. infcrip-

Insanz. adj.

^°^'

I'NSECT. *./ [infiaa. Lat.]
In/eas may be confidered together as ona

/V/;r<irrf

5.

Byo%»n,

Deep o'er his knee infeam'd remain'd the fear.

!

An inrtil'd co\umn rears its lofty bead ;
Here to fev'ii ftreetsfev'n dials count the day.

curable; irremediable.

'''= '«ff-

Ye weeping loves the llream with myrtles hide,
And with your golden darts, now ufelefs grown,

To ic-

hand; bufi

TilNSE'AM. i-.<7. [/«andy?aOT.] To iinprefs or mark by a feam orcicatrix.

Connatural principles are in themfelves highly
reafonable, and de I icible by a ftrong procefs
of ratiocination to be mod true ; and confequently
the
high exercife of ratiocination might evince their
truth, though there were no fuch originally
in the mind.

Skakefp. Timonf

It was ufual to wear rings on either

To foreign princes, ego (3 rex tneus
Was Itill infcrib'd.
Shakefp. Henry VIII.

An officer in the popiih conrts of inqui-

Insa'.nable. <7(^'. \infanabiUs, Latin.] In-

With waa I brought away.

when precious gems and rich injculptures were added, the curtom of wearing them was tranflated
unt<j

In all you writ fo Rome, or elfe

fition.

the daily inroad: of the enemy.
Clarendon.
The country open lay without defence;
For poeu freijuent inroadt there hath made. Dryd.

And on the grave Hone this /;r/<:»/^rar,, which

on than in.

Dry den.

Though inaccefTible his fjul throne.
Milton
The lofiof Shrewtbury expofed all'North Wales to

Timon is dead.

Insa'thrablI!. fl</f. {in/aturabilis, Latin.]

with

[from in and/cu/p.

Entomb 'd upon the very hem o' ih' fea;

contemplation in nature, to confider of the emptinefs or imjatisfaaional fevctal bodies"
and of their appetite to take in others.
Bacon's lljtural Hijlory.

It is therefore more frequently- ufcd

n. /.

Any thing engraved.

lute.]

It is a profound

Minos, the flrid inquijitor, appears.
And lives and crimes with bis aui:ilbrs heart.

kingdom.

I.nscu'lpture.

ufe.

In thefe particulars I have played myfelf the inand find nothing contrary to religion or
manners, but rather medicinable.
Bacon' t EJfays.

From Scotland we have had in former times fome
alarms and inroadi into the northern parts of this

A coin that bears the figure of an angd
Stamped ill gold, but that infeulpt upon. Sbattjf.,

A

or on the outfide of fomething.

Ta

engrave ; to cut.

.

///.

In things indifferent, what the whole church doth
think convenient for the whole, the fame if any part
do wilfully violate, it may be reformed and inraited
a^in, by that general authority whcreunto each particular is fubjec^.
Hooker.
Where fam'd St. Giles's ancient limits fpreadj

To Inscu'lp. rv. a. [in/culfo, Latin.]

Milton.

And hellifh difcord.and infatiatt thirft
Of others rights, our quiet difcompos'd. Phillips.
I N S A T I S F a'c T I O N ».
/ [/» inAfatisfaaion.}
Want ; uijfatisfied ftate.
word not in

qui/itor,

rail.\

Siaie/p, Rich. III.

Not to be g'utted ; not to be filled.
•rtjiNscRi'BE, -v. a. \infcribo, Latin; infcrir^ French.]
I. To write on any thing.
It is generally
applied to fomething written on a monu-

the great determinator of virginity, conception,
and the infcrutable infirmities of the whole

We (hould contemplate reverently the works of
nature and grace, the injcrniable ways of
Providence, and all the wonderful methods of God's
dealing with men.
Aiterbury.

Too oft has pride.

ment,

.

his equity

tertility,

Infatiate to purfue

Vain war with heav'n.

CurioCty ; diligence to pry into things

YflNRA'iL. a. tf. [/« and
dofe with rails.

life,

fo as not to be fatisfied.
My mother went with child

H'am on the Mind.

Inqui'sitively. adv. [from inquiftti've.'\
With curiofity; with narrow fcruriny.
Ikqui'sitiveness. n f, [from inqtiijitii'e.'\

*"*••

..

Sandys.
Hereunto they haverecourfe as unto the oracle of

extremely ambitious, and infatiahly
theitfore no impieirio.^, from argument or miracles, could reach them.
South.
Itis a'ti ATS. adj, [mfaiiatus, Lat.J Greedy

Broome.

ot''''^*r
I, !
l)
how tnfcrutable

Twins with his power.

They were

of a young inquifitive and fprightly genius.

a.

and was wholly bent to make his kingdom and peo'''

covetous; and

They cannot bear with the impertinent quelfions

Iwcyji'siTOR. fi. /. [injuijitor, Latin;
quijiteur, French.]
I, One who examines judicially.

-^ jeft unfeen, infcrutabit, invifibic.

As a weather-cock on a (teeple.
Shaitfp.
This king had a large heart, infcrulaUe for good,

greedinefs not to be appeafed.

Addiftm't SfeCiatar.
my name and charafier.
A wife man is oot inju'tjltive ab-iut things imper-

Heights that fcorn our profpcd^, and depths in
which rcafon will never touch the bottom, yet furely
the pleafiirc arifiog from thence is great and noble ;
for as much as they afLrd perpetual matter to the
ittquifttivcneft of human reafon, and fo are large
enough far it to Mk< iu foil fcope and range in.
South*: Sermon J.
Providence, delivering great conclufions to us, dcligned to excite our curiofity and iKquiftiiveitefs after
the methods by which things were brought to pafs.
hurnet.
Curiofity in children nature has provided, to remove that ignorance they were born with j which,
without this bufy injuiftiveneft, will make them
dull.
Locke.

Fr.] Unfearchable ; not to be
traced out by enquiry or ftudy.

Insa'tiably. (7^^•. [from in/aliable.] With

The whole neighbourhood grew in<foi/iii-t/e after

hidden.
Though he thought inquj^tivenefs an uncomely
guefl, he could not but alk who Ihe was.
Sidney.

firiiiable,

[ixova in/auable.\

Greedinefs not to be appeafed.
Some men's hydropick infatiMemJs had learned
to thirft the more, by how much more they drank.
King Charles.

Lticke.

tinent.

Inocru'table. adj. [in/crtitabilit, Lat. in-

Greedy beyond mea-

Insa'tiableness. »./.

Art anxioufly Inquijitlve to know.
Drydeti,
A Dutch amballador entertaining the king of
Siam with the particularities of Holland, which he
was ijiquijiuve after, told him that the water would,
in cold weather, be fo bard, thjt mea walked upon
it.

out a formal dedication.

Latin ;

fure; greedy fo as not to be fatisfied.

Then \vhat the Callick arms willdo«

Confignment of a book to a patron with-

4.

Shakrfp. Machetb.

[i»fatiahilis,

N S

the party accufed, in his accofatory libel,
as the defendant himfelf ought to fuffer,
if the fame he proved. JjUffe's Parergon.

Were fuch things hert at we do fpeak about ?
Or have we eaten of the injunc root.

the h^uijitive and malicious

t^orld a furvey of ihofe thoughts, which it it the pre-

rogative of God only to ky'-^w.
His old fliaking lire,

I

Mnd.
2. Making m.id.
1

It can be no duly to write his heart upon his fore-

head, and

N S

1

He it not Injulfiiivt inio th« ratomWtatt't of !n-

i'felf.

TillotfoM^

Not fafe.
Insecu'rity. h./. [in indficurify.]
2.

\i.

Uncertainty; want of confidence.
It may be eafily perceived with what infecurily of

truth we afcribe elfefts, depending upon the natural
period of time, unto arbitrary calculations, and fuch
as vary at pleafurc,

6^z

Brrni-n.

a. Want

Want of fafety

Save what (in hath
wrought

danger; hazard.

;

The unmfanablciMfs and prclumption, the dinger
»nd defpente in/icurity of thofe that have not fo

Jwsbmina'tion. »./. [tnfeminatiott, Fr. in/emino,hMa.^ The ad of fcattering feed
on ground.

Inseco'tion. »./. \infecution, Fr. in/ecutio,

Prc'polals

of being fuch

LfCkf.

Inse'par.able.

Inse'.vsiblb. aJJ. \infenfible, French.]
t. Imperceptible ; not difl-overable by the
a trim reclconhath it? he that died a Wedncfday.
iiig.
Doth he feel it? no. Doth he hear it ? no. Is it

fo incorporate with the

But will it not
the de.id.
Why ? detrailioa will not
Shakeffeart.
fufFer it.
Two fmall and almoft iKfenfilbc pricks were found
infinjille then ? yea, to

Him thou (halt enjoy,
Milton.
Infeparubly thine.
Rcftleffnefs of mind feems infefarabty annexed to
Atheifts muft confefs, that before that aOigoed
period matter had exilted eternally, infeparably endued with this principle of attraAion ; and yet had

never attradled nor convened before, during that in-

Te INSE'RT.
Dryd'.n.

fertittn,

Void of feeling, either mental or cor-

Latin.]

n. f.

[from

Abfencc of perception ;

infenfilk.']

'i

[injirixifi,

Fr.

infertio,

The ad of placing any thing In or among

.

other matter.

inability to per-

is

too tedious an interruption, by the infertion of re-

Ray.

'llie planet earth, fo ftedlift tlioiigh (he feem,

AJM/on tn Italy.
Itj

in-

Latin.] Sly ; circumventive; diligent to entrap ; treacherous.
Since men mark all our lleps, and watch our halt-

fidio/iis,

iHgs,, let a fenfe of tljeir iiijidious vigilance excite u>

fo to behave ourfclvcs, that they

may find a convic-

tion of the mighty power of Chhdianily towards regulating the palfions.
Alttrbuff.
They wing their courfe.

And dart on dillant coarts, if fome (harp rock.
Or iiioAirtJidiou-i, brea'K:> not thelrc.ireer. ^Tbjmfon.
Insi'diously. adf. [from rtrjidiws.'] In a
fly and treacherous manner; with malicious artifice.

The callle of CaJmus was taken by Phcbidas the
Lacedemonian injidioujly, and in violation of league.

and their religion,

for the

elFccling their cruel dc-

Gwevninenl of the tongue.

figns.

I'nsight. »./. [inficht, Dutch. This word
had formerly the accent on the laft fyllable.] Introfpeftion ;. deep view.; knowledge of the interiour parts ; thorough
flcill in any thing.
Hardy (licpherd, fuch as thy merits, fuch may
Sidney,

be her i'nji^hl \uA\y to grant thee reward.
Slrailway (cut with careful diligence

To fetch a leech, the which had great injight
And well could cure the fame ;. his name was Patience.

Spcnfer.

circimivolution or injertian of one part ot

Arbuthnot

Milton.
an univerfal injigbi into things.
T4je ufe of a little injight in thofe parts of know-

He foftens the relation by fuch infertiont, before

ledge, which are not a. man's, proper bufinefs, is to
accutlom our minds to all forts ot ideas..
Lt-cite,

The thing inferted.
Bn,oae.

A g.irden gives us a great injigbt into the contri-

To

vance and wifdoin of providence, and fuggeds innuUpeliator.
merable fubjerts of meditation.
Daeconfideration, and a deeper InjSgit'wto things,
would foou have mado them fenfible of their error.

TijInse'rve. i.a. [in/ej^'Jo, Latin.]
be of ufe to an end.

By How degrees.

French;

be able wjiiers, when they (hall be thus fraught with

hedefctibes the event.

Milim
Inftn/ihly three different motions moves.
TJie hills rife infenjiily, and leave the eye a vaft

\infdietix,

Now will be the right fcafon of forming them to

the gut within the other.

2,

Dieiionarj.

INSI'DIOUS. adj.

Felton on the Clajficks.

is either a

I. Imperceptibly ; in fiich a manner as is
not difcovered by the fenfes.

One who lives

in wait.

An.1'.eus, commonly called. the twilling of the guts,

cords in tbeir.narration.

Inse'nsibly. (Kfot. {hom iMfen/ible.']

Addifcn't Guardian.

In that difeafe of grieved confciciu:e.

The great difadvantage our hiftorians labour under

The irjinjaitnefi of the pain proceeds rather from
The relaxation of the nerves than their.obftruftion.

Ecual they were fcrm'i,

v. /.

Latin.]

ceive.

uninterrupted progrefs.

Stuift.

Poefy and oratory omit things not efTential, and
I'^rr little beauiitul digreQions, in order to place
iVatti.
every thing in the moll alfefling light.

Inse'rtion.

V EJImnge,

As for the injide of their ned, none bur themfclves

where

inferted,

judgment had rcjefled.

You grow infenfibltto the conveniency of riches,

other, and there'i the moiety 1 promifcd ye.

Baco^

It is the editor's intcreil Kainfirt what the author's

TanpU.
the delights of honour and praife.
You render mankind /i/ivi/'^" '" 'li''' be.iutics,
Dryiita.
of
love.
empire
deftroyed
the
hare
and

Here are the oulfidcs of the one, the injides of the
'

Simeon and Levi fpoke not only falfely but injidioujly, nay hypocritically, abufing their prolelyies

Thofe words were very weakly

Void of emotion, or ^eftion.

Sliew the i/i/ide of your purfe to tlie outiide of his
Shakefp. ff''inttr's Tuic.
hand, and no move ado.

To place in or amongft

Siillingjlcei
they are fo liable to mifconftruOion.
With the worthy gentleman's lume I will infert it
Addifan.
at length in one of^my papers.

Milt<,n.
Xnfin/ib!i\ini forrhwiih to Jilfolve.
Accept an obligation without being a lUvc to the
ffottcn,
giver, or in/cnjiiie of his kindnefs.

'X,

Sjuferer, Ft. infero, in-

-u. a.

other things.

K thought
I then VMS palVmg to my former ft.»te

Insf.'nsiblenes«.

BeniUy.

finite duration.

poral.

A,

TcmpU.

human nature.

%. Slowly graduali fo as that no progrefs is
perceived..

3,.

Bacon.

rated with gold.

Broivn'sVulgM Rrroun.
upon Cleopatra's arm.
The denfe and bright light of the circle will obfoire the rare and weak light of thefe dark colours
round about it, and render them almoft iifenjtl/le.
Nculon's Officts.

Andlanguifh with injsnjibk decay.

more rich as it cannot be

feparat<vl ; as if filver Ihould be iafefarably incorpo-

live with the living ? no.

They fall away,.

infeparable .'I

"With indifffaluble union.
Browning of metals is, when the bafer metal is

Who

Look'd he 0' th' injide of the papers ?
Shakefp. Henry VIII,

Insidia'tor. »./. [Lat. ]
Popt.

;

outflde.

—He did unfeal them.

were concerned in it.

And this or that unniix't no mortal e'er (hall find.

Inse'parably. adv. [from

fenfes..

Locke.

neither really nor mentally.
Together out they f!y,
InfiparMt now the iruth and lie ;

3. 'I'orpor ; dulnefs of corporal fenfe.

Milton.

Belus.

I'nside. n.f. \iu zvAfiie_^ Interiour part ;
Oppofed to the furface or
part within.

Milton.
Gare and toll came into the world with fin, and
Locke.
remain ever fince infeparable from il.
No body feels' pain, that he wiihos not to be eafed
of, with a defire eijual to that pain, and inJeparabU
L^cke
from it.
The parts of pure fpace are infiparahU one from
the other, fo that the continuity cannot be feparateJ,

tion.

Hbaiejp. Henry Vl,

Not Babylon,
Equall'd in all u» glories, to injhrint

InJcpjyakU, murt with me along;,
lor death from fin no pow'r can leparate.

Glanviile,

What is that word honour? air

Warlike and m.irtial Talbot, Burgundy
Injhrines tliec in his heart.

Bacon.

Thou, my (liade

of mental percep-

To
It is

a.

nj.

written equally enjhrine,-

the wife and politick ufe of couufe! by kings.

InfcnftblUty of^rtow motions may be thus accounted
for: motion cannot be perceived without perception
of the parts of fpace which it left, and thofe which

[/> and_/?>iffc]

jnclofe in a (hrine or precious cafe.

Jo IssHRi'sE.

;

Ancient times figure both the incorporation and
hfcparablt conjun^ion of counfel with kings, and

to perceive.

Not ufcd.

See them fjlely brought to Dover; where, inJbipp'd,
Commit them to the fortune of the fea.
Shakeff.

Not to be disjoined ;
united fo as not to be parted.

Insensibi'litv. n.J. [mjixjil/iiite, French ;
from infenjibte.'^

dulnefs

French

\infeparable,

aJi.

embaik.

to

We fay ftmply to fhip.

in/eparabilis, Latin.]

Milton's Agon.

it next acquires.

a fliip ; to (low;

follows from their infeparability, motion being nothing but change of diltance between any two things:
but Uiis cannot be between parts th.it .;re infeparable.

So fond are mortal men.
As their own ruin on theoilc!vcs t' invite,

2. Stupidity;

Which were/»/?.^//'j' when Marciiis, llood lor Rome,
And durtl not once peep out. Shak'fp. Corioljnus.
'To Inshi't. 1'. a. \Jn va^ pip.'\ To fliut in

The parts of pure fpace are immovcible, which

Hjmmond.

f.- Inability

cannot be fevered or

as

Not ufed.

AufiJius, hearing of our Mjtcius' bir.irtimcnt,
Tlirufti forth his horns again into the world.

divided.

wanting feniibility.
Ye be reprobates ; obdurate infinfatr creatures.

Injenfate left, or to fenfc reprobate.
And with blindnefs internal ftnick.

n.J. [from infefara
bU.\ The quality

"1

With the extreme hairs of histail. Chafmjn's Ili.id.

-

Sviifi.

Without mental or corporal fenfe.

3.

feel.

Jato, Italian.] Stirpid ;

Brovjrt.

To hide

To Inshe'll. v. a. Sjn and Jheil.'\
in a (hell.

Inseparabi'litv.
Insf'parableness. J

Of his rich chariot, that might ftiU the infecution

French; in/enwanting thought

agrecaWe to our paOTions will hfenJiUy
Riger)'} Vermont.

where there is uo digellion to be made,

makes not any parti infervieni to that intention.

Cadenus

wheel

[infen/e,

part in vain,

Afitmn.

hfinfibly came on her fide.

own horfe got more before the

Ikse'nsaTE. adj.

The providence of God, which difpofeth- tf C9

which yet hath

prevail upon our weaknefs.

Not in ufe.

Purfuit.
king's

impair'J,

InfenfiHy.

inAcK as a thought, all their lives long, to advance fo
far as aiirition and cootrilion, forrow and refoluiion
of amcndmciic.
HammmJ.

Latin.]
Not the

INS

INS

NS

1
2.

Inse'rviekt.<j<^'. \_i,i/er<vient, Latin.] Conducive; of ufe to an end.

IVocdwartL

Inwcni'ficance.

INS

I

Insicni'iicance.) »./. [iii/tgnlfi:flK(e,Vr,
Insig.vi'ficancv. 3
from injignificant.^
\, Want of meaning ; unmeaning terms.
To give an account of \\\ the hjigmjicanciet and
fcribe '.t.

To inrtil

4.

Gailb.

To wheedle

1

1

Unimportant ; wanting weight ine&ctual.
This fenfe, though fupported bj-

2.

;

eail teftimonies, 1 prelumed to ufc the great name
cf your fociety to annihilate all fuch arguments.

pluck this white rofe with Plantagenet.

To Ileal into imperceptibly

;

Peftilential miafms infir.uatt into the humoral
CDiilillent parts of the body.

3.

I

their virtue utterly

and

niiation,

The

lertion or ingraftment of one

ol culture or civility :

He had a natural injinualicn and addrefi, which

NUATIVE. adj. [from injnuatt.] Steal-

ing on the affeif^ions.

Birds arc uught to ufe articulate words, yet they
undcrlbnd not their import, but ufe them infignij-

The

It it a ftrange infitiualive

thatinfinuates.

INSl'PID, «<^-.

^

{inf.fide,

;

dif.

I.

He

Othce and cnftom, in all line of order.

rnfifiid tafte, old friend, to

To

Iran's VAST. adj. [French.]

Having the
power to gain favour.
Men not fo quick perhaps of conceit as flow to

ralTions, and commonly lefs inveniivethan
judiciou;,
howfoever prove very pUufible, injixuani, and

tortu-

naie men.

yilNil'NU.'VTE. nj.a.

H't/tton

\iHf»,uer, Fr. in-

finuo, Latin.]

HMd-uara

2. "(o puth gently into favourer regard
commonly with the reciprocal pronoun.
.There is no particular evil which hath not
fomafjfearaocc ofgoodndi, wUeieby to imjixualc iifelf.
.

tUbker.

J o

caufes belonging lo this prefcnt controverfy,.liaih

tain general principles,, whereupon the
ordinances
that fervc for ufual praflice in' the church

The gods h,ive made your noble mind for me,
And hci iKjifid foul for Ptolemy

of God

aregroimdcd.

Hor^kcr.
the hypocrite reign not, left the people b»

;

A Heavy lump of earth without defire,

I hat

A heap of afhes that o'erlay your hre. Dryd. C/ecm.
Some fliort cxcurfions ol a broken vow

/«-

fnared the judgments both of fundry good and of
lome well learned men, is the manifell truth of cer-

dull ; heavy.

infmned.
\.

J^j,, xxxiv. 30..

^

Eitfnnre is more frequent.

He made indeed, but flat infpid ftuff.
Dryden
iNsi'piDiTV. 1 ,. /. {wftpiditi, Fr. from

Insna'rer. «./* [iiom iu/iiare.l.

InSi'pIDNESS. I
ittjipid.]
1. Want of tafte.
2. Want of life or fpirit.

Inso'ciable. «<^i [in/uiable, French; /«/o-

.//'j; of

Tate's.

A/.f.

iNsi'riOLY. aiv, [from inftpid.']
.

2.

curiofity baulkea.

is

fports,

.

Latin.]

Averfe from converfation.
If this aaitere infociableW^

Change n*l youi offer made in hoatof blood.
2.. Incapable

One great renfon why many children abandon
their time i-fyi.ily,

I

Stakeffi.

Without tifte.
Dully; without fpirit.
themfeUes wholly tc filly

He that)

infnares'.

c'tabilis,

Dryden': lines (hine ftrongly through the /»/?»/.

The water eafily />Aw.J/rj iiftlf into and placUlv

Fen tort,
'.
.
..
intanglein difficulties or perplexities.
That which in a great part, in the weightiefti

rr.

2.

m the Humoun

She lays fome ufeful bile afide.

To introduce any thing gently.

iPen^s ih. vflTcl) o( vc-etablcs.

Though Dryden once exclaim'd in partial fpile

He hlh !— becauf* the man attempts to write. ;

To tinge the chyle's iitJifidHit.
Frier.
2. Wanting fpirit ; wanting pathos
flat
;

Shatcfb

*

Infnarc j gudgeon, or perhaps a trout

that Paris knew,

•

not

Siakefp^.

She infnar'd

Mankind with her fair looks..
Milton^
By long experience Durley may no doubt

This chyle is the natural and alimentary pituita,
which the ancients defcribed as injifid.

ii/i„ceriiy.

and//Knt..j
to confirm.
word

them

ina trap, gin,, or

'*""'''* ''"=" ''"gar on that bottled
fpider,

Wbofc deadly web mfnartth thee about.

bayle.

t'l'yer

Rro:miontbeOJyJf,y.

A

iirJ^J'''

Where rocambole, Ihallot, and the rank gajjick grew.

in

{m

to catch
fnare ; to inveigle-

And often cali'd for fugar with their meat
Patf

Insi.vce'rity. »./. [from injlncere.] Difiimulation ; want oftruth or fidelity.
If men (hould always aft under •
malk, and

ftrengthen;
ufed.
All mrmbers of our caule,
That ate infinruicd lo this aflioii.

i^Tointrap;

Our fathers very much admir'd their fauces fwecl,

Alike devote to forrow'j dire extreme.
The day lefleflion and the midnight dream.

Shakefp,

To In3na'«e. 1). It. [in and faan.]

Wanting tafte;. wanting power of affedl-

from being inodorous or injifid.

Ah why, Penelope, this caufeleli fear.
To render lleep's foft h\i:\X\t>ii infincere ?

a.

jnfijiure, couric, propprtion, (ealbn, form,

,

Ainfiwrth.
French ;4>,V/«..

ing the organs of guft.
Some earths yield, by dirtillation, a h'tjuor very far

fembiing; unfaithful; of perfons.
2. Not found; corrupted; of things.

tise

Obfcrve d.-gree, priority, and place,

Latin.]

Itcere.

Not what he appears; not hearty

and

center,

Ccx/. ofite Toitgue

luiMiVk'roK.n. /.[ittjinuater, Lat.]

2.

hcav'ns themfelves, the planets,

power which etample

and cuftom have upon us.

no tillage, grafting, ot i>,fuian.

Insi'5tur.e. »./. [from/«/^.] ThiswoS^
feems in Shake/peat e to fignify conftancy
or regularity, but is now not ufed.

Clarendon.

,

branch into-

another.
Without the ufe of thefe we could have
nothlnc

Bacon.

--

l.vsi

Hale,

the

made him accept^iiile in the beft company.
_

underftands not.

The

may not fupplant bim without a juft caufe.

Insigni'ficantly. ad-v. [from inftgnifi.

Without importance or effeft.
Iksjnce're. adj. [ittfincenu, Lat. in and

What is more admirable than the fitnefs of every
creature for the ufe we make of him
?
The docility
ol an elephant, and die injiiiene,
of a camel for fru-"
veiling „, dcfarts.
c,.^.^_
iNsirio.v. „../, {injitio, Latin.]
in-

work, a new man, by infinuatim ot milinformation,

k'"gj^dJIfin.
,
In a heiaorrhage from the lungs, no remedy fo
proper as bkeding, often repeated : rtypticlts are often
i-jlgnijftam.
Ariuiinst.

tanilj; as the organ or pipe renders the tune,
which

IVoitor.

iKfi.

infinuate.]

.

iNsiTiE.vcY. /;.
/ [/„ zad, Jtic, Lutin.J
Exemption from thirft.

When the inJuftry of one man hath fettled the

cjni tJian the fcum of a people, inlUgaied againit a

Without meaning.

from

of her

The breadth of the fuhftmaion muft be at
leaft
double to the injijlcnt wall.

affeflions.

Nothing can be more contemptible and tnjigmji-

cant.]

French,

tzx.

power of pleafing or Sealing upon

TilUtCon.

;

Milton.
{infinuatio,

which

to her.

Decay of Piety.
T
.
Insi stent, adj. [infjlens, Latfn.]
Kefting
upon any thing.

Harvey.

Gave proot unheeded.

'''*

we have hitherto in^Jied on, the intercepting

know not whether Milton does not ufe

Insinua'tion. w./.

To dwell upon in difcourfe;

lupplies were irreparably injurious

liifinualing, of his fatal guile

relMSl'.VEW. t:

abfolute.

Were there no other act of holHlity but that

to be con-

particular perfons, by rendering

inJignifcMt.
South.
All the arguments to a good life will be vcrv hjignifcant to a man that hath a mind to be wickej,
when rcmiflion of fin may be had upon cheap terms.

3..

Shakeff.

this word, according to its etymology,
for, to enfold ; to wreath ; to wind.
Clofe the ferpcm lly

•

•

As our conditions Ihall iijift upon.
Our peace (hall (land firm as rocky mountains.

veyed infenfibly.

Glanv. Sccff. Pre/act.

\,

to perfift in.
Upon fuch large terms, and fo

and without all colour

Calumny robs the publick of all that benefit that
it may jurtly claim from the worth and virtue
of

difguili, that indeed betrays defign and

on

n

Of bafe infinuating dattery,

Bhclmorc.

authority, is not very proper.
That 1 might not be vapoured down by infigni/t-

•

love no colours ;

I

fide the"
angles on one fide

th.-

Nor to recede from terms or aflertionf

to gain on the affeftions by

;

that

the centers of the bottom of the
cells

the other fide.

2.

gentle degrees.

'Till you can weight and gravity explain,

it

•njift upon

To Insi'nuate. "z^. n.

Iksic.ni'ficant. adj. [in 3.aA fg/iijicmu.]
1. Wanting meaning ; void of lignification.

t.

The combs being double, the cells on each
partition arc fo ordered,

Locke,

rr T

My

i„fiflo,
•^

To ftand or reft upon.

1.

move the paffions, and thereby mtllead the judgment.

vidence.
Addijon'i Guardian.
_
annals are in mouldy mildews urought,

1.

Swift,

to inftife gently.

All the arts ofrhetorick, befidc's order and clearnefs, are for nothing elfe but to />/jWa/f wrong ideas,

As I was ruminating on that I had feen, I could
not lorbcjr refieftiiig on the infignijicaiicy of human
art, when let in couiparilbn with ilie deiigns of Pro-

2.

;

N S

Latin.]

v.

GlanvUle.

Thofe words are infigmfcant and'vain.

to impart indireftiy.

;

And all the fiflions bards purfue
Do but infimiau hat's true.

Unimportance.

Willi tafy ijijigfijirance ot ihought.

J

Insi'hencb. »./. [i»/lpie»tia,Lztin.] Follv;
want of underllanding.
To mSVST. -J. n. li„j,jUr, French;

CUrtndnn.

To hint

3.

verbal noihings otthis philofophy, wouli be to tran-

2.

N S

At the ifle of Rhee he in/lnualtJ .'limfelf into the
very good grace of the duke of Buckingham.

and triHe away all

b«caufe ihey have found ihcir

Uckc.

of connexion or union

The loweft led je or row mult be merc.'y of Hone,riifely laid,

without mortar, which is a central cau.
pans in building that are contiguous to
board or timber, bccaufe lime and wood are
info.^
't'li'le'
kf-itton's Archilcaure^
tioa lor

all

Ims-ouju'sty^.

I

N S'
/oiriftjf.]

;

Dcls towarJs God, and wpkritiy towards himlelf, it
he is jult to his neighbour, lie thinks lie has quit
'

fcoi

Dei-ay ofPieljI.

i.

body I

of tiie body, it gathers a cruil about it.

By

Arbuthnt^t.

upon credit.

A

fainter accufed hit guards for robbing him of
oxen, and the emperor (hot the offenders; but demanding reparation of the accufer for fo many brave

Ijtf'Jvent tenant of incumber**! fpace.

Baton.

M'aitt.

Smart.

3. Infufion of ideas into the mind

Insolvencv. n, f. [from iii/ol'vtBt.']
ability to pay debts.

:

Hamy.
Inspiration, n.f. [(tom in/pire.]
1. The ad of drawing in the breath.
In any inflammation of the diaphragm, the fymp^
toms are a violent fever, and a mod eiquifite pain ii><
creafcd upon in/fira'ic)i,}3y which it is diilinguiflied
from a pleurify, iu which the greateti pain is in expiration.
Ariuttnot,
2. The aft of breathing into any thing.

felk)ws, and finding him infolvuit, compounded the
matter by taking his life.
Addifon.
An hfi/lvtm is a man that cannot pay his debts.'

We lift (hefe towers fat irfotalion, refrigeration,
xoaveriation, and for lb« riew of divers meteois.

To ihefc»i>/}>/r»i/f hurts, we mayenumente thofc
they fullain from their ezpitation of luliginous dcmii.

public dedaratiorv he proclaimed himfelf /«//otir/.

Expofition to the fiin.

may be drawn In with the breath, whiei
may he infufed.

aad /oho^ Latin.]

yilv'e'il of thofe vail Aims he had taken

Ary in the fun ; to expofe to the a^ion
of the fun.
Insolation. »./. {info'ation , Tr, from in-

If it have not a fufficient infdaihn it looketh pale,
and attains not its laudable' colour if it be funiKd
Broivn.
too long, it fuft'ereih a torrefaiSion.

\jii

An adt of in/ol'veiicy

I

never fpoke with her in all my life,

— How can

(he then call us by our names,
Unlefs it be by in/piralitm T

I'nsolence, 1 n, /. [infoleitu, French In''releafed without payment.
J'nsolency. J Joletitia, Lat.] Pride ex- Insomu'ch. conj. \in/o much.}
erted in contemptuous and overbearing 1, So that
to fuch a degree that.
treatment of others petulant contempt.
It hath ever been the ufc of the conqueror to de;

ShaieJ^.

Your father was ever virtuous, and holy men at
their death have good infpiiaiiont.

Siialte/f,

We to his high injpirati<,n owe.

;

not reiiraiii tht /w/o/ffffy of O'Neal,
who, finding none now to withdand him, made himicif lorduf thofe people that remained.
__ Sfenftr.

fplfe the language of the conquered, and to force him

That what was done before tlie flood we know.
Denham.

to learn his
fo did the Romans always ufe, /»/?muoh that there is no nation but is fprinkled with

What the trag*lian wrote, the late fuccefs
Declares was injpiration, and not guefs.
Dtnbam.

Such a nature
Tickled with good fuccefs, difdains the fliadow
^Vhich he treads on at noon ; but I do wonder
His infolence can brook to be commanded
XJndcr Cominius.
Shaktfp,
lilih&n.
JSIown with injaltnce and wine.
Publick judgments are the banks and (hores upon
•which Cod breaks the irtftjlency of iinners, and ftays

their language.

Rpenjer.

Infpiration is when an overpowering imprelfion of
any propofition is made upon tnc mind by God himfelf, that gives a convincing and indubitable evidence
of the truia and divinity of it; fo were the prophets
and the apoftles infpired.
It'atii.

;

They could

'

by a fu.

perior power.

In-

a law by which imprifoned debtors are

is

N S

I

for tvheil any thing hifdukle fticksin any part

Inso'i.vent. adj.
Unable to pay.

To

rol'NbOLATE.i;.*. [/n/o/a, Latin.]

/o/a/e.]

N S

I

and

Iksobri'ety. it. /.
Drunkcnncfs want ot fobriety.
He whofe confcience upbriids him with profane['»

their proud waves.

:

To make ground fertile, afhes excel

infomuch as
the countries about .£[na have a'mends made them,
for the mifchiefs the eruptions do.
Bacon.
Simonides was an excellent poet, injomucb that he
made his foi tune by it.
VEJtrange.
They made the ground uneven about their ncll,
inf'jtnuch that the flate did not lie flat upon if, but
left a free pafTige underneath.
Addifon,

Tillot/an.

The fteady tyrant man,

This word is growing obfolete.
rolNSPE'cT. T.', a. \^infpicio,inffeiitim,\ji.K.'\
To look into by way of examination.
Inspe'ction. »./. [in/peSion, Yl. inffeHio,

For fport alone, purfues the cruel chace.
'Thimfon,
Tlic tear of any violence, either againft her own
might deter Penelope from

uling any endeavours to remove men «f fuch injclrncc

and power.

Lat.]

Hrt,ome.

Prying examination; narrow and clofe

t.

•?« 1'nsolence. -v. a. [from the noun.] To
infult ; to treat with contempt.

furvey.
With narrow fearch, aild with InJpeSlion deep,

A very

bad word.
The bilhops, who were firft faulty, hfolenced and

Cnnfider every creature.

Our religion

•I'nsoi, ENT. atfj.,[in/oleKt,

French; infclens,
Latin.] Contemptuous of others j haughty ; overbearing.

awakened reafon

contempt of others; haughtily; rudely.
What T muftdifprove.
He inftlmtly talk'd to me of love.
DryJen.
Not fadlion, when it (hook thy regal feat,
Not feaates, infoUtitly liud,

Thofe echoes of a thoughtlefs crowd.
Could warp thy foul to their unjuH decree.

foner of war.

Inso'lvable.

adj.

We

AdJiJon.

The divine infftSlion into the affairs of the world,

[in/ohable, Fr. /a and

doth iiecefTarily follow from the nature and being of
God ; and he that denies this, doth implicitly deny
hisexidence.
Bcnlley.

/olvej]

1.

Not to be folved; not to be cleared ;
inextricable ; fuch as admits of no folution, or explication.
Spend a few thoughts on the puzzling enquiries

«oncerning vacuums, the dodlrine of infinities, indivifibles and incommenfurables, wherein there appear

fome ir.jolvablt difficuUies.
2. That cannot be paid.

Ifaltt an tie Mind.

I .N o'l u B L E . adj. {injoluhk, French ;
iilis, Latin.]

U Not to be cleared

;

Atterbury.

Oiould apply ourl'clves to ftudy tite pcrfeflions
of God, and to procure lively and vigorous imprcffions of his perpetual prefence with us, and InffeOion
over us.
Atterbury.

Dryrifn.
Briant, naturally of an haughty temper, treated
him very infoUxtly, more like a criminal than a pri-

not to be refolved.

Admit this, and what (hall the Scripture be but a
fnare and a torment to weak confcienccs, filling them
with infinite fcrupulofitics, doubts m/oluile, and extreme defpair.
Hoaktr.
SI. Not to be diflblved or feparated.
.^tooy matter majr grow in any part of a human

into

With their new light our bold inffeBon prefs,
Denbam.

A fuperintcndent.
Young men may

travel under a wife

Infpelhr or

parts, that they may bring

ufeful knowledge.

Inspe'rsion. ». /,
fprinlcling upon.

H^ifd. XV. II.

.

To infufe into the niind;

3.

to impref*

upon the fancy.
I

have been troubled in my fleep this night;

But dawning day new comfort hath inffir'd. Siai,

Then to the heart inffir'd
Vernal delight.
4.

Millm,

To animate by fupcmatural infufion.
Nor th' infpir'd
Caftalianfpring.

MihoH.

Erato, thy poet's mind infpire.

And fill his foul with thy celcllial fire.
Drydrn.
The letters are often read to the young religious,
to infpire them with fentiirtents of virtue.

5.

Addifon.

To draw in with the breath.
By means of fulphurous coal-fmoaks thj lungs are

ftifled and opprefled, whereby they are forced to infpire and expire the air with difficulty, in compatifou
of the facility o( infpiring and expiringlbe air in the
country,
Harvey.
His baleful breath infpiring as he glides j
Now like a chain around her neck he rides. Dryden.

Inspirer, n. /. [from in/fire.^

fanflificr,

Like Cham, to fhew their father's nakcdnefs.
2.

him an aftive foul, and breached in a livinp

Ip'"'-

He tliat

To the infinite God, the omnipotent creator and
preferver of the world, the mod gracious redeemer,

A prying examiner.

tutor to different

iiijolu-

Ye nine, defcend and fing.
The breathing indruments/«/5>;V^.
Tope,
To infufe by breathing.
I .
He knew not his Maker, and he that hfpireJ

infpires.

Inspe'ctor. «./. [Latin.]
1.

To breath into.

\.

truth and purity, (he

run no hazard of being diverted to improper ends,

luddenly yields to nature aad dies.
ifalion.

Milton.

for want of our own infpefiion.

it

7?Inspi're. v. <t.

firft

.

/»•

To draw in the breath ;

If the infpiring and expiring organ of any animal

be dopt,

Superintendence; prefiding care. In the
fenfe it Ihould have into before the
objeft, and in the fecond fenfe may admit
evfr; but authors confound them.
We may fafely conceal our good deeds, when they

2.

I'ssohiHTLY aJv. [i;//i/e»ter, Latin.] With

Latin ;

n, [infpiro,

oppofed to expire.

for,

;

-v.

French.]

fpirer,

religion that dares to be undcr-

being fecure of her fubftanknows that for her to be
feen and looked into, is to be embraced and admired,
as there needs no greater ai^ument for men to love
the light than to fee it.
Sjuth.
tial

We

have not pillaged ihofe rich provincej, which
i»e refcued : viOory itfelf hath not made us iyfilent
mailers.
Atttrbury.

a

is

ftood \ that offers itfcif to the fearch of the inquifitive, to the itiffttiion of the fevered and the moll

/dngCiaihi.

aflfaulted.

To INSPI'RE.

2.

Who with (he thoughllef^ injvlencc of power.
fierfon or againft her Ion,

;

home

l^atti,

[in/perJiOf'LiUn.]

A

Ainfiuorth.

ro Insphf.'re. tt.a. [/« and_/5>^f/r.J
place in an orb or fphere.
Where thofe immortal diapes

To

Of brigfit aerial fpirits live in/phtr'i.

and infpirer of mankind, be all honour.
Derhant,

-Taltjspi'RiT. V. a. [In anii /pirit.]
To
animate; to afluate; to fill with life and

vigour; to enliven;
encourage.

to

invigorate ; to

It has pleafed God to infpirii aai aduate all hit
evangelical methods by a concurrence of fupernatural

drength , which makes it not only eligible but pof.
fible, eafy and pleafant, to do whaten-r he coramandi

us.

Decay of Piety.

A difcrect ufe of becoming ceremonies renders the
fervice of the

In regions mild of calm and ferene air.

Milton.

the fluggilh,

iNsn'jLABLii. adj. [from mffirt.}

WTiich

fliifper.

church folemn aad alfefting, Infpiritt
and inflamci even the devout notjineriury.

The

N S

I

UUds.

F(i(>c't Prrf. ts tbt

#femf ire and ambition.

content,
J et jov or eaft, let affljeDte or

AnJ ihe jayconfcicr.ceof a life well fpent,
C'aim ev'ry tliought, inJgWit ev'ry grace,
Pcpe.
Ciov. :r. thy heart, and ktiile upon thy face.
ft, Ikspi'ssatk. 'v. a. \in anii/pifus, Lat.J

To thicken

to make thick.

;

Sugar doth iKffiffalt the fpints of the wine, and
inaiceth them not lo eafy to refoUe into vapour.
Bacon.
This oil farther inffiffaitj by evaporation (urns
Arbuibnat oti Alinuitis.
into baim.

ivill

The ufe of injlxnccs is to iUuihate and explain a
difficulty ;

ixom in-

Jtanccs as are familiar and common.

Inconftancy ;

Jlabilitc, Fr. inftahilis, Lat.]

ficklencfs ; mutability of opinion or con-

duft.
Injiability of temper ougli< to be checlceJ, when

fchcme of gorernanother; fuch a ficklencfs cannot but be
Addljon's Freebaldn.
fatal to our counuy.
ftanf ;

\infialler,

1.

To I'nstance. 'V. n. [from the noun. j To
give or offer an example.
As 10 falfe citations, that the world «iay fee bow

Sftnjer.

little

Shaktjptart.
InfiaU'd archbilhop of Canteibury.
The king chofe hjm malicr of the horfe, alter this
Walton.
he was Infial'.td o\ the moft noble order.

J$ it not eafy

2.

Sbakeff. King Lear.
Th' infiani Itroke of death denounc'd to-day,

Hbaktffrare

...
felicitation.

Importunity; urgency ;
Chriltian ftien (hould much better frame them-

which our Lord and
Saviour with fo great infiaacy gave u> concerning
peace and uniiy, if we did concur u> have the ancient
Uioktr.
councils renewed.

Unmark'd,unhonour'd, at a monarch's gate;

.

church make it a queftion in politicks, nhelhcr the
Siuiji.
monument be in danger.

Equal to.

2.

I'nstant. ti./. [injlant, Fr.]

This very confideration fo a wife man is injlea^of
a tlioul'and arguments, to fatisfy him, that, in thole
lilLiJon.
times, no fuch thing wis believed.

3. Injiead IS

l>}fiant is fuch a part of duration wherein

1

ing and their not being.

Jlanci and argument to commend thcmfelves.
St.ikr/j,cjre's Merry H'lvn tf Windfor.

And not in injlanis through all places Ifridc

Locke.
There is fcarcc an in/lanl between their flourilh-

tTpoii iheir tongues a various fpirit, lo rafe

Tofow a jangling noifc of tongues unknown. Milt6Jt%
Inste'ep. f. a. [in andy;?^'^.]

Slaie/f.

J^avies.

The injiancr of a caufe is faid to be that judicial
procefs which is made from the contettationof afuii,
even to th: time of pronouncing fcutcncc in the

At any hjlanl of time the moving atom is but m
one fingle point of the line; therefore all but ili-t
one point 15 either future or part, and no othSr parts
are co-exiftent or contemporary with it.

Ajli£t.

Bentiey's Sermon*s.

3. Profecntion or procefs of a fuit.

Example; document.

2.

Yet doth this accident

A particular time.
I

can at any uofcafonable hjl ani of

^

of.

T'o

But (he is High and far, beneath, above,
In point of lime, which thought cannot divide.

An bafe lefpeOs of thiift, but none ol love.

ufed without

Quite out their native language, and injicad

Hooker.

Her nimble body yet in time mud move.

i/rjlancei ihn fecond roatrriage move,

fometiines

In the place ; in the room.
He in dcrilion fets

we perceive no fucceffion.

She dwells fo fecurely upon her honour, that folly
Now, could 1 come to her
Jares not prefenf itfelf.
wiih any direflion in my hand, my defirej had in-

6

Sii/tai,
Chew'd bitter d(hes.
Vary the form of fpeech, and injieadcf ihe wotil

Pofe.

prelfing argument.

[A word formed })y

the coalition of in anAjiead, place. J
in place of.
1. In room of;
They, ixjlead cf (luit,

Jn/lant'hc flew with hofpitablc hafte.
And the new friend with courteous air embrac'd.

Not now in ufe.

Relloration ; reparation;

Ikste'ad. of prep.

InJlanl without dilturb they took alarm. Millori.
Griev'd that a vifitant fo long (hould wait

felves to thofe heavenly precepts

•
,

Although by conlifcation they are ours.
We do irtjiateani widow you withal. Shakefptare,

renewal.

Mibon.
Remov'd far off.
Nor aative country thou, nor friend Oialt fee ;
Nor war haft thou 10 wage, nor year lo come ;
Impending death is thine, and infianl ioam. Prior.
3. Quick ; making no delay.

Eich fair irjialmtat, coat and feveral creft

Obfolete.
For his polfeflions,

jlauraiio, hat.]

Which crave the injiani ufe.

Search Windfor-caftle, elves.

A,

To inveft.

2.

Your needful counlel to our bufinefies,'

The feveral chairs of order look you fcour;

taufe, or till the end of three years.

nor, perhaps, had
thy birth injlated thee in the fame grealuefs, wouldit
'
been
better.
South.
thou have
The firft of them being eminently holy and dear
to Cod, (hould derive a blelTing (o his poUerity on
that account, and prevail at laft to have them alfo
accepted as holy, and injiated in the favour of God.
Alter bi^j,
ty, he could not have been fo bad ;

Instaur a'tion. ti.j. yinjiattraliou, Yr, in-

prefent.

Our good old friend, beltow

The feat in which one is inftalled.

The

Had thrsglil^eringmonfter been born to thy pover-

Immediate ; without any time intervening ;

Shah/j>rart'i Richard III.

Motive; influence;

Itah.

'

.

For (he ;>/?u.'»r«/of this noble duke

a.

two or

Prefling ; urgent ; importunate; earntft.
And they were injlant with loud voices, requiring
Luke, xxiii 2j
that he might be crucified.
^joicing in hope; patient in tribulation; conRomans, xii. 12.
tinuing infiant in prayer.

1.

To make lord William Haftings of our mind.

I.

(hall injiance in

This kind of conqueft does only injialc ihe viflor
in thcfe rights, which the contjucred prince had.

Vryden'l yuvtHal.

Jnsta'lment. ff./ [from ;»/?a//.J
<• Theaftof inftailing.

J'nstancy. S

I

To place in a certain rank or condition.

1.

I'NSTANT. adj. \injiant, Fr. /«/?«»/, Lat.]

Ayliffi's Partrgott.

!

to be trulted,

May's Virgti,

With urgent importunity.
ToInsta'te. v. a. [»'» and /?'?'''•]

Tilhijvn.

Upon the cledion the bilhop gives a manttate for

With loyal blazon evermore be blcft

is

Juft To their natures alter injlanily.

2.

In tragedy and fatire, this age and the laft have
excelled the ancients ; and I would injiance'in Sliakcfpeare of the former, in Dorfet of the latter.

in the proper feat.

a.

he

three about which be makes the loudeft clamour.

Ijjstalla't*pn. n.J. [injiallati'jn, French,
from irtjiall.] The aft of giving vifible
poffeflion of a rank or office, by placing

In the fen royal ?

Pope.

If Eufebia has lived as free from fin as it is pcfHale
for human nature, it is becaufc (he is always watching and guarding againftall iiifiaTices of pride.
La'ur't Sei ious Call,

To advance to any rank or office,

his htjlaj/alioii.

Immediately; without any perceptible
In a great whale, the fcnfe and the eflTe^s of any
one pan of the body injianiiy malce a tranfcuifioa
throughout the whole body.
Bacon's Nat. Hiji.
Sleep injiantiy fell on me.
Milton,
As fev'ral winds arlfe,

A foul fupreme in each hard wjlance try'd
Above all pain, all anger, and all pride.

Derbam.

intervention of time.

Rogers.

JiarifetoiiMy.

Cranmer is return'd with welcome,

.

thofe came from ihcclouds, or were injlantaneoi^y

generated

commend, even in the moft fevere and difficult in-

Incon-

by placing in the feat or fiall proper to

.

to my thoughts, there being reafon to conclude that

other than what natural reafon has endeavoured to re-

Fr. /a and

And is inflaliid noil in heaven's highL

In an invifible point of time.
What I had heard of the raining of frogs came

fieoui.]

The peiformaiices required on our part, are no

that condition.
She reigns a goddeff now among the faints.
That whilom was the faint of fhepherds light.

Tbomjort,

Instanta'neousi.y. adv. [from injianta-

6. Occafion ; aft.

See Ukstable^

changing.

yi INSTA'LL. 11. a.
fiall.\

Lat.]

\injiahilis,

Burnet's 'Theory,

The rapid radijnce injiantaneous (frikcs
Th' iUumin'd moitntain,

1'nstantly. adv. [injianter, Lat.]

to

Iksta'ble. adj.

tions of creation and annihilation.

5. btate of any thing.
Thefc fecm as if, in the time of Edwaid the Firft,
they were drawn up into the form of a law in the fird
Hule.
injlaiice.

it dilpofes men to wander Irom one

mect

This manner of the beginning or ceafingof the deluge doth not at all agr* with the injiantaneous ac-

and this end is beft anfweicd by fuch/»Baker.

Arbulhnot.

[^iitftaiilitas,

;

out any perceptible fucceffion ; afting
with the litraoft fpeed; done with the
utmoft fpeed.

Suppofc the earth (hould be removed nearer tp the

Bac»f:

afford a fait neither acid nor alkaline.

Instanta'meous. aJj Xinjlontancus, Lat.J
Done in an inftant aftirig at once with-

Aturbury.

cryftalite by itifpiffatton, and

liJSTABi'nTy. »./.

for a day of the prefent or current month.

On the twentieth irtJiantxK is my intention to eretfi
a lion's head.
AJdifon's Guardian.

The greateft faints are fometimcs made the moft
remarkable hijlartces of fuffering.

To foak

1.

;

to macerati- in moifiure.

Suftblk firft died, and York, all hassled over,
Comes 10 him where in gore he lay injierp'd.

Sbakejpearr,

Lying under water.

2.

1

he guttered lOcks, and congregated •fands.

Traitors injinp'd to cjog the guiltlcfs keel. Slafe/p,

The upper

tt.
f. [i// and Jief]
pait of the foot where it joints to the leg.

Instep,
sight a[-

*^

'ihe
I

.

3. It is ufed in low and commercial language

Addifon.

volution.

fun, and revolve for. x/j^djvfe in the orbit of Mercury,
Bintity.
the whole ocean wouU boil with heat.

air.

point her to look out at her lady's chamber window*
Sbukejpeare.

ther to languifb in their dungeons, than (lake their
niiferable lives and fortunes upon the fucccl's of a re-

Imspissa'tion. «./. \ixovni>iJpi£'ate.'\ The
aft of tBaking any liquid thick.
The eSeS is wrought by the in/fiffatiex cf the
Recect urine

INS

I'N S
So far exceed all lujienct, all difcoUtCr,
That i am XSA^I to dillrull mine eyes. Sbaiejpearr.
In furnaces of copper and brafs, where vitriol is
often call in, there rifeih fuddenly a fly, which fometimej movcth on the walls of the furn.ice; fomctimcs in the fire below; and dieth prefently as foon
as it is out of the furnac? : which is a noble i/ifiance,
Bacon.
and worthy to be weighed.
We find in hillory infiancn of perfons, who, after
their pril'ous have b^en flung open, have chofen ra-

The reurage of Agamemnon ii In/tirhrd by !ovc

.

N s

i

The caliga was a military (hot with a TCry thick
-

fcle, tied above the iri^rf with leather thongs.

Arimbnol or Ccirtt.

To I'NSTIGATE.

To urge to
Fr.]
or incite to a crime.

giier,

ill;

To love thy pcrfon, ere

I Jtnew thy merit
Till what was inJiinSt grew up into friendfli/p.

^iitfUgathH, French,

Ikstica'tion. It./.

Addijon.

The philofopher averj

from ittJiigaitJ] Incitement to a crime ;
encouragement; impulf^to ill.
Why, what need we
Communewiih you of this ? But rather follow
Sh,iktfp. ffinttr't Tale.
the in/liga:i<nt of fome laftinus

Our forceful ittfligalkn.

U Wis partly by
.

malecontents that bare principal Itroke amongft them.

That reaTon guides our deed, and inftinfi theirs.
inJlinS and reafon how (hall we divide}
Prior.
Reafon fervcs when prcfs'd ;
But honeli infllnfi comes a volunteer.

Shalt atiy man, that wilfully :procufes the cutting
ef whole armies to .piece?, fct up for an innocent ?
As if the lives that were taken away by his inji:^ttioM were not to be charged upon his account.
L'F.Jliangr,

[ifiji'gatfur,

Fr.

and ixjlinfled lh!0\if,h the whole, which the
defedaliun of fo many parts by a bad printer and a
worfe editor could not hinder from (hining forth
Benrley*s Preface to Milton.

inifeiy the malicious autlior or inftigator of

its effu-

King Charles.

Insti'nc riVELY. ailj. [from injlincli'w.'\
By inftinft by the call of nature.
The very rats
Infl'inCllvely had quitted

To infinuate any thing imperceptibly
into the mind ; to infufe.
Though afTemblies be had indeed for religion's

7*9

To fix;

to

appoint;

They irobitter the cup of life by infenfible inJiiHaRamiler.

[from

inflil,']

Any

thing inftilled.
Shakefteare
The lepcrous tnfiilnent.
I
N C T adj. [iiiftina, Fr. injlin^us, Lat. ]

terials,

Hooker.

A word not in ufe.

forth rulli'd with whirlwind found

Milton.
By four cherubick ihapes.
I'NSl INCT. w. f. {hjiina, Fr. i»fiinaus,
Lat. This word had its accent formerly
on the laft fyllable.] Defire or averfion
afting in the mind without the intervention of reafor. or dclilieration ; the power
of determining the will of brutes.
In him they fear your highnefs' death;

And mere injiin^ of love and loyalty
Makes them thus forward in his banilhmcnt. Shak.
Thou knowell 1 am as valiant as tiercuirs but

iVitute ; to dircft.
Out of heaven he made thee to hear his voice that
Deut. iv. 36.
he might infirucl thee.
His God doth infiruSl him to difcreiicn, and doth
teach him.
Ifa. xxviii. 16.
Chcnaniah, chief of the I.evitcs, infirufled i\>oat
i Ciron. xv. zt.
the fong, becaufe he was Ikilful.
Thou approved the things (hat are more excellent,
Rom. ii. it.
being rff//"'^/t'</ out of the law.
hJtrsiH me, for thou knoweft.
Milton.
He ever by confulting at thy fhrine
Rcturn'd the wifer, or the more inJiruSi
To fly or follow what concern 'd him moft. Milton,

by

maxim

;

Isstitu'tion, n.f,
inflitiitio,

principle.
Dryden,

[;^//«//o», French

1.

Aft of eftablifhing,
Eftablilhment ;

fettlement.
The infiitutiun of God's Law is defcribed as be-

Hooker.
ing eliablilhed by folemn injundlion.
It became him by wlioin all things are, to be the

way of falvalion to all, that the inftitution and refti-

;/t

before

the thing

They that were InfirvSted in the fongs of the Lord
were two hundred fourfcnre and eight.
i Chron.
Thcfc arc the things ivbertin Solomon was r/u
firuHed iai building ot the houfc of God. i Ciren.

To model

I.,ittle in ufe.
to form.
They fpeak to the merits of a caufc, after the proc-

3.

Ijit.]

2.

It has commonly
taught.

2.
Drydcjt.

;

tor has prepared and injlrueled the lame fur a hearing before the judge.
Ayliffe,

Instru'cter.

n. /.

[from

inftru^.'\

A

teacher; aninftituter; one who delivers
precepts or imparts knowledge.
It is
inflruClcrs

This unlimited power placed fundamentally in the
body of a people, is what Icgillators have endeavoured,

Chrift.

I

in their I'cveral fchenicsor i/rfiiiuturtioi goviramcait

The father of the faithful there did dwell,

and thee

to depolii in fuch huids at would prcferve (he people.

Who both lUeir pareai aiid infirudtr was. D"ii>.im.

Skakiff, Htnrj IV.

Sv-ift.

not touch the true

I was a coward
.prince : inftinli is a great m.itier,
ga itjiiriei: I (h.ill think llu- hotter of myfclf and

1

;

;

Thou art p.de in mighty Itudics grown,
To make the Stoick infiitutes thy own.

/«-

To teach to form by precept ; to inform authoritatively ; to educate; to in-

1

Eftabli(hed law
fettled order.
This law, though cullom now direfls the courfe,

2. Precept ;

Sjujlruo, Latin ;

often written Insructor.
Though you have ten thoufand

;

tlioe, during my life;
Ik a true prince.

injirucled or infiruli.
firiiirt, Fr.]

Lat.]

Uncancel'd, though difufcd.

F!a(lii:'E thick flames, wheel within wheel undrawn,

will

With boiling pitch another near at hand
Dryden's Ann. Mlrai.
The feams infhfs.
To INSTRU'CT. 1: a. participle preterit;

would be a very new fyltem in politicks.

As nature 'si'yf/r«/e, is yet in force,

Itfelf iitftinc} with fpirit, but convo) 'd

lion

;

inftruftion.
If children were early itifiiluled,knovi]e3gc would
infcnlibly infmuate itfelf.
Decay of Piety.
I'nstitute. n.f, [it^itut, Fr. injiitutum,

1

To clofe

To Iksto'p. 'V. a. [;a andy/«/.]
to Hop.
up

S'wift.

The chariot of paternal deity,

beware irjiinlf; the

Green gall the hifiitutlfts would perfuade us to be
Harney on Conf.
an effcfl of an over-hot fiomach.

Tentjile.

To educate; to inftruft; to form

z.

.

animated.

Holder on Time,
Inftruftor; educator.
The two great aims which every infiitutor of youth
Walker.
fhould mainly and iutenlionally drive at.

To infiilule a court and country party williout ma-

2.

n. /.

2.

to fettle ; to prcfcribe.

himfelf.

;

to have ordered them alternately odd and even.

to

by the laws of their nature, infiituted and imprinted
on them by inimitable wil'Jom.
Hale.
The theocracy of the Jews was infiituted by God

injiil.]

'

It might have fucccejed a little better, if it hid
pleafed the injlituton of the civil months of the fua

Sbakefpctre.

1. ^iTie aft of potiring in by drops.

Insti'lment.

An eftablilher; one who fettles.

1.

Tothe produiSionof theeffeft they are determined

Instilla'tion. tt.J. [i///liUaiio, Lat. from

»«.

Hitilt or, Lat.]

of inftitutes, or elemental inftruftions.

eftablifh;

Here let us breathe, and haply injiitute
A courfe of learning, and ingenuous iludics,

Thole heathens did in a particular manner injlil

Moved

to

eliablilhed by folemn injui)<!<ion.

the principle into their children of loving their counS-wifl.
tr)', which is far otherways now-a-days.

Bro-ccn,

r N 5 T 1 T U TOR . ».y; \injiituteur, French ;

Shakeff. temfrft.

it.

God then irtjlituled a law natural to be obferved by
creatures; and therefore, according to the manner
of laws, the inftitution thereof is defcribed a.s being

good inftruftion, by contributing to men's hippinefs
Calamy.
in this prefent life.

IN ST

Elemental ; containing the fidldoftrincsj
or principles of doftrine.
That it was not out of falhion Arirtotle declareth
in his politicks, among the infiitutionary rules of

I'NSTITUTE. 'v. «. {jnfiituo, injiitutum, I'nstitutist. »./. [ixom infiituie.'] Writer
enaft ;

He had a farther delign to iijiil and infinuate

Itcti:.

Bentley^

tution.

Lat. injlituer, Fr.]
I.

fake, hurtful nevcrthelefs they may eafily prove, as
well in regard of their htnefs to ferve the turn of
hcretlcks, and fuch as piivily will foonell adventure
Hooker.
loiffjiil their foifon into men*s minds.

1 he aft of infufing flowly into the mind.
3. The thing infufcd.

cffeiil of precept or injti..

In-stitu'tionarv. ailj. [from, infiitutiott.]

bode ; and it appears that the irfftintlii>e prefage was
a favourite opinion of Homer's.
Broome.

He from the well of life three drops iitfiill'J.
MUtoit.

L'E/lrar.ge.

HisSearning was not the

;

To infufe by drops.

honedly entertain them in

youth.

Rais'd

Either the eagemeft of acquiring, or the revenge
of milfine dignities, have been the great injiigaton
Decay o/Pierj.
cf ecclefi^ick feuds.

a.

in their youth, that may

fon ; rifing in the mind without apparent

By quicit injiin£}ive motion. Up I fprung,
As tliiiherward endeavouring.
Milton.
It will be natural that UlylTcs's mind tliould fore-

1.

a necellary piece of providence in the hfii.

their age.

iNSTr'scTivE.a^'. [from ;>////»<?.] Afting
without the application of choice or reacaufe.

inJiilUr,

is

!

from

French.]

It

tulion of Our children, to train them up to fomewhat

prcffed

Inciter to ill.
That fea of blood is enough to drown in eternal

7i INSTl'L. -y. a. [injlillo, Lat.

Hammond.

font, and in a ihort intelligible manner.

was perhaps in-

ivJH^aleJ\

fion.

After baptifm, when it is in infancy received, fnccccds inftruction and injiitution in the nature an!
feveral branches of that vow, which was made at the

troduced !)y Betttliy.
What native unejtinguilhaWe beauty muft be im-

We have an abridgment of all the hafencfs and

Ivstica'tor. »./.

Education.

4.

Popt.

In-sti'ncted. afl^' [injiina us, hzt-l Impreffcd as an animated power. This, neither mufical nor proper,

Villainy that both the corruption of nature and the
injiigatim of the devil could bring the fous of men
South.
to.

They quarrel fometimes with the execution ofkws,
and fometimes with the infiitntion.
Ttmfle.
The holinefs of tlie lirft fruits and the lump is an
Itolinefs merely of ittfiitutioHt outward and nominal
whereas the holinefs of tlie root is an holinefs of
Atteibury,
nature, inherent and real.
The law and infiitution founded by Mofcs was to
eftablilh religion, and to make mercy and peace
Forlci,
known to the whole earth.

Milton't Agtnijies,
Nature firll pointed out my Fortius to me,
And early taught mc by her fecret force

to provoke

N S

3. Pofitlvc law.

To have guided me aright.

a. [inJUgo. Lat. inili-

ii.

I

But providence or iiJUnetoicMin feems.
Or mfon though difturb'd, and fcarceconfoltei,

far a valiant lion,

tulion of the world might be both wrought with one

hani.

Hooker.

in

Cor. iv. 15.

After the flood arts to Chaldea fell.

O ih4U)

N

I
S
O thou, who future things can

There is one tiling

'ft ttprefent

As pirfent, hcav'nly wJiruHor

Mltlon.

reafon,

Poeis, the firft inJIruBvs of mankind,

Rofcommon

They fee how they are befet on eveiy fide, not

6.

helplefs people.

Addlfon.
have precepts of duty given us by our In-

We

which a man does by another, is in truth

]
;

information.

The bold are but the infiruments of the wife.

It lies on you to I'peak,

We arc beholden to Judicious writers of all ages,
and difcourfes they have

difcovcrics

behind them for our i/iftrueti'^x.

They undertake the dangers they advife.

Instrume'ntal.

Conducive as means

Locke,

3. Authoritative information ; mantiate.
Sec this difpaich'd with all the haftc thou can'fl;

What artifitial frame, what InftrumeHI,
Did one fuper or genius e'er invent

Which to the mulcJes is preferr'd ?

Blackmore.

Boi is ufefBl lor turners and injirument makers.
Moriimcr.

A frame conftrufted fo as to yield har-

monious founds.
He ihat lirikeili an infirumnt without (kill, may
caufe noiwiihllanJing a very pleafaat found,
if the
ftiir.g whereon iie Itnketh
chance 10 be capable of
•^""""yH.'Aer.

She taketh moft delight
In mufick, inflrumenis and poetry.

Shakr/peare.

In folilarj groics he makes hu moan.
Nor, mii'd in mirih, in youijitul pleafures (hares.
But figh» when Ibngi and mjiiumtnu he hear,.
-

3.

.

A writing containing any
.

.

order.

He called pdna his wife, and took paper, and did
trriw an inflmmm of covenants, and fcaled ir.

dilcern

If,

haply, you my father do fufpefl.

5.. That

by means whereof fomething

is

done.

The gods would not not have delivered a foiil into

Itoration.
.

ments

;

not of voices

„
n.ti.cc

-

^'';""')----

'
'

^-

vo.r (e,X'
.'i.^.U'

A7..,

Weayl

d.,cct

fa iZ

"^r'>^^#./...,"'i:;ti^;

« and/#r«v//.] Inadequate to any need

nfe. or purpofe; wanting
abilities ; incapable ; unfit.

melody to r~mjio, mull (hew fome reafon,
whereloic the one Ihould be thought a legal ceremony and not the other.
Hooker.
Oil in bands,
While they keep watch, or nightly rounding walk.
With heav'niy touch ol ixftrunuTiui founds
In full harmonious number join'd, their fongs
Divide the night, and litt our thoughts to heav'n.

juftly reje<a them as incapable

^

and infujfiu,,,,.

We a,« weak, dependant creatures,
i.rJ!i"m[:
our own happinefs, full of wants
whicl/ofourfe v .
we cannot relieve, cxpof.d to
a nun^erous train
of
evils which we

Millan.
Sweet voices, miit wiih infliumtntal J-.unJs,
Afceud the vaulted roof, the vaulted root rebounds.

.

know not how to divert
Parting kills by the bad
fc.e, no,

rZ,,,

by tliefS'

Dryden,

Witli want ot proper
ability; „ot ikil-

mtnial.'\
Subordinate agency ; agency of
any thing as means to an end.

Thole natural and involuntary adiingsarc not done
by dehberaiion and formal command, yet they are
done 'jy the %iriuc, cnerjy, anl inKux of the foul,
and the injlrumemulity ot the fpirits.
Hale.

mental.^

ad-v.

[from

Men's well-being here in this life is but i'Jiru.
menially good, n being the means lor him lo be wrll

rendered

wLh Chnff ufe"

Oruina, being furrounded with
the

11

wiy pt^lnicil,

""

in

every jChri-

commonwealth, by lawi to fcitic and fecurc
propriety.
H,„nmo„d.
iNSu'lFERABLE. adj. [ill mA/u^fftralle.]
1. Intolerable; infupportaUc; intcnfe
be

"^

tages'

rNsuLATED.

'"^

adj.

fca,

is

hardlr

""'"^ ""'='" '"J"''"y

"!""-

{i„fula,

"nt

Latin.]

contiguous on any fide.

iNsu'isE
iipid ;

ir,.

Belonging
^ °

to an ifland.

[{tomdff/iru-

Ufefulneis as means to an end.

he att of breathing upon.

Insular, ^dj. {infulane,
French;
Insula. v./ yW«,v>, Latin.]

l^iebv-

Habitual preparation for the facrament coi.lills in
a ftaiiding, permanent habit, or principle of holinefs, ivr.iught chiefly by C^d's Ipirit, and injtrumentttlly by his word, in the heart or foul of man.

h.is

J

Impolition of hand! is a
cultom of parents in
bhfling their children, but
taken up by the a oftle^
...Head ol that divine injumuu;,,

injiru-

In the nature of an inftrumcOt

The injlrumniiahfji of riches to works of tha-

«^-. li„jul,u!, Latin.]
"'

heavy.

Dull 'j ia-

\''':^:--'-"-f-\'''f".^>'>u Lat.'n; ,V/;7/,. Fr.]
1
I he
aft of leaping upon

any thing.

In

ftian

j

,

,

H

an5^^^^;^;£-t:t:-<M^^^

not

vocal

yond endurance.
5

ot nniu,.
„.

'

IM experience has diicovered their

pretence of the law cereDionial abrogated, require the abrogation of injiruvunlal mufick, .ipprovmg ncverthclefs the ufe ol

riiy,

Reputation ii the fnx.lleft facrifice iholc can
make
ut, who have been ihe injitiimtnii of our ruin.

Vol., I.

.

/£^^'«0; 1 Uid certainly conclude them to be in.

They which, under

meu/a/.]

lor themfclvei, but a> injltumenit towards
a higher
*"<1;
Oecayof t'ieiy.

ifc

,

.,s.

vocal.

Inst«ume'ntalnpss. n.f.

Chriftianily commends bccom« neceflary, not limply

than by reading to luHiuCt
this place as a Ifrangei,
l^llh
Common prayer hath iioihin:
The inj^j/icie/icy of iMli^.

un.n.eil,g.nt ot our
,V^,v«,.,
cai.not praile us, as iitiie accufe

but inftru-

produced by inftruments.

.

We will give you Ileepy drinks, that

Siviji.

Confifting

Soulh.

the boJv which hath arms and kgs, oil)
IrJIrumrnlt of do.ng ; but iliai it were intended the
mind
(hould employ ibem.
Sidney.
All voluntary fcH-deniali and auAeriiies
which

The miiiillci's jpti:..-!-! n:

theyalledge themf-hes iijliumcntal towards the re-

in the next life.

Shukrfp. Oih<Ih.

power':

things atiu perfons.

that end.

The prcfbvtcrian merit is of little weight, when

as me^ns to an end.

Lay not your blame on me.

South.

[;„r.,^7,

h(Mt of icripmre, fo fully .fuppli^-u,
U^i than this halh added, tliue doih

beriiley.

as things, hut of- perfons very often in
an ill fenfc.

An iiijirumtni ai this your calling back.

A///,„.

There is no perfon remarka'uly
ungrateful,-*ho
was not alio injujiralily proud

Insuffi'cience. \tt./.

Instrumk'ntai.ly.

The agent.

their blaze

inMc ratty \>ui'nu

Insui-fi'ciency. /
JK :ns
adcquatenefs to any end orj..,,
of reqnifite' value or'

TcSlai.
It is ufed of perfons as well

'

'.

4.

Thofe heav'niy fhapes
Will dazzle now this earthly, with

Ail fecond and i"JlrumcKtal caufes, without that
operative faculty whici. GoJ gave ihcm, wciild become ai;ogether filent, vifiuclels, and dead. Ral<igb.
Prayer, which is ixjhinmnial to every iliing,
hath aparticular promilc in this tiling.
^ayior.
It is not an eflentul pjri of religion, but
raihcr
an auxiiiar)- and i':Jlrumental duty.
Smalrijge.

Ixstrumenta'lity. n.f. [from injim-

Dryden.
contract or

Dr<,dm

Insu'fk«..d,y. „dk>. \irom
injuffeutbtA
To a degree beyond endurance.

or-

Afting to fome end; contributing to
fome purpofe; helpful: ufed of perfons
and things.

.

RUMENT. »./. [wjirumcnt. Fr. /,-

A

fome end j

themtogethrr.

VVith variety of inftrunnr expreflions by fpetch
man alone is endowed.
Holder.
I would not laugh but to inftrufl
; or if my mirih
ceafcs to be infiruaive, it Ihall never ceafe to be innocent.
AdJifon.

'.

pefter the
world w„h their inJuJjer.Me ituS",
IbJuld be iff!
couraged Irom writing any more.

Fr.

fome excellent final caufei ot conjunflion of body and foul j but the iiifirumetii.,l 1
know not, nor whit invilibic bands and leiieii, unite

iNSTRu'eriVE.

ftrumentum, Lat.]
tool ufed for any work orpurpofe.
1.
If he fmitc him with an irjlnimcnl ai iron, fo
that he liie, he is a murderer.
Nimb, xxxr. 16.

to

i ,."V

difguftine'be-

yond endurance.
A multitude of fcribblers, who daily

Dryden.

{injirumenial,

Deteftabic; contemptible;

2.

ganica..

1

Anon I'll give thee more inftruSlim. Shakr/pta'f.
aJj.
(from iajlruti; iiifiruaif, French.] Conveying knowledge.

adj.

DrvJn
eyes, yel

the highefl degree of daiknefs
does not at .,11 difcafe them j becaufe that caufing
no difordcrlv motion, leaves that curious org.in
unharmed

infirumsntnm, Latin.

left

2. Precepts conveying knowledge.
Will ye not receive iit/lrucliott to hearken to reccive my words ?
%-r. xxty.
On ev'ry thorn delightful wifdom grows,
In ev'ry (tream a fweci injlrueiicn flows ;
But fome untai:;ht o'erhcjr the wliiii^inj rill.
In fpite of fjcred leilure, blocltlicads itill.
YoLtig.

2.

his own
VEjhurge.

»<S,-

Not by your own inJiiuSHcn, nor by any matter
Which yourhearl prompts you lo.
Shjkijpesre.

I'NS'l

Though great light be i«f,.fferable to our

in his own
pleated her inftruments to frame

Sidney.

fwjv

So fierce they flafh'd infufferalle day.

Lccke.

;

The aft of teaching

for thofe

Bro-un's y„lgar E,r„un
Eyes that contsfs'd him born for kingly

One who atSs only to ferve the purpofes
it

other

with iKfuJferable cold.

way of exercifing this fa-

child, were even then lolt when it was found. Siuk.
In benetits as well as injuiies, it is the principal
that we are to coniider, not the iajtrnnieni
that

Instru'ction. n.f. [iajlru^ion, Fr. from
1.

N

I
S
The one is oppreffed with conflant heat, the

concerning

AH the i/ijliuments which aided to expofe tlie

Ra».

injirtifi.

ulifulleft

chamber, but as
themfelves.

mftruHan were difpofed among this little

Jlruclirs.

be confidered

of another.
He fcarcely knew what was done

only with temptations, but mfiruBars to vict.
Several

N S

to

wheiher Ijllogifm be the proper inftruv.ent

of it, and the
™'ty-

Brought ali things to their native proper ufe.

I

I

fyllable : the fenfe is
rare.
'J-he bull's infuS,

at lour ftie may f„ftai„,

But after ten Irom nuptial ritrs
2.

rclrai,,.

DryJe,,
A« or fpeech of infolence or contcinptl

The rutlilcf, (ncd that inj„l, adds

to gacl li/:„ge.
.

'i'akt

'

I

N T
'

To INisU'LT.

-v.a. {infulter,

In fcorn of their proud aims, and warlike tools,
Sp.irn'd them lo death by troops. Milton's Agowjlei.
The firlt day's audience fulticiently convinc'd me.

Fiench ; iii-

That the poem was infufpoilably too long. Diydcn.

To treat with infolence or contempt.

Sjnfurmwntable,
It is ufed fometimes with ever, iomt- Insurmo'untable. adj.
Infuperable ;
Fr. in and furmounlable.'\
times without a prepofition.
unconquerable.
The poet makes his hero, aflcr he was glutted by
his
the death of Heflor, and the honour he did
This difficulty is infurmovHlahle, till I can make
friend

by infulting over his murderer, to be moved

It pleas'J the

Tript me behind; being down, \r,fuh(d, rail'd,
Hhahffecire'i King Lear.

So 'fcapes the infulting fire his nanow jail.
DryJen.

And makes fmall outlets into open air.

Ev'n when they fing at eafc in full content,
Iirfuliirg o'er the toil they underwent,

Yet ftill they find a future taik remain.
D,-^rlen's Virgil.

To turn the foil.
iNSu'LTfR. n. f. [from />>//.] One who
treats

another with infolent triumph

Ev'n man, the metcilel's infulier man,

Man, who rejoices in our fex's weaknefs.
Ks-we's Jane Shwe.

Shall pity thee.

iNsu'LTiNGLY.ai/t;. [frora;>/tf//;>rf.] With
contemptuous triumph.
lnjultitigly,

he made your love his boaft.

Cave me my life, and toU me what il coft.

a-lt}.

[from

feditious rifing ; a rebellious commotion.
Between the afliiig of a dreadlul thing,

And the liril motion, all the inierim is

I, Invincible; infurmountable; not to be
conquered ; not to be overcome.

This appears to be an injuferable objeflion, becaufe of the evidence that fenle fecms to give it.
D'ghy on Hodies.

Much might be done, would we but endeavour ;
Pafe.
Yet never pafs ih' in/ufernbU line.
[(torn in/afern-

Invinciblenefs ; irapoffibility to be

furmounted.

Insu'perably. adv. [from iitfnperable.']
Invincibly; infurmountably.
Between the grain and the vein of a diamond there
the former fuithers, the latter,
being fo infuferably hard, hinders thelplitling of it.

is this difTerencc, that

Cretu's Miijueum.

I.n'SUPPo'rtable.
in znA /upportable ] Intolerable ; infuiFerable ; not to be endured.
A difgrace put upon a man in company is titadj.

\in/npptirtatlc, Fr.

fufforiablt ; it is heightened according to the greatncfs, and multiplied according to the number, of (he
Ssulh.
perfons that hear.
The bafcr the enemies XK, the more infupportable
I:
hjirange.
is the inlblen.e.

time hath made injvrrcaion
ag.iinH kings, and that icbellionund fedition have
E^ra.
been made therein.
There (hall be a great infmreBion up"n tliofe that
2 I^P- «'> 1°fear the Uid.

This

city

of old

I.iJmrcBiMS of bafe people are commonly more
Bacon's Heury V U,
Tlie trade of Rome had like to have fulfcred ano-

ther great ftroke by an injunction in Egypt.

Arbutbnot.

Inta'ctiui.e.

We meet with ihe'fisures which Juvenal defcribes
on antique intaglios and medals. Aidifon on Italy.
Inta'stable. adj. Via and tiijie.] Not

be a molf pcllilent and itfupfiort-

Summer; and as for thofe countries that are

nearer the Poles, a perpetual Spring will not do their

B,mhy.

bufineft.

Iksuppo'rtableness. ». / \ixom itijupfortable.']

InfufFerablenefs ;

the ftate of

being beyond endurance.
Then fell iTie to fo pitiful a declaration of the iafuffei tatlrKtfi of her dcfires, that Dorus's ears procured hi' eyes with tears to give tcllimony how much
they fullered for her fuffcring.
Insuppo'rtably. ad<v.

able.]

Sidney.

[from

Beyond endurance.

injnpport-

organs of

raifing

any fenfations

tafte.

A word not elegant, nor ufed.

The liaeriioe,

inllead of attempting

to

om integrity, will conceal anddifguifehis own vices.
Rogers.

Purity ; genuine unadulterate Rate.

2.

Language continued long in its purity and integrity,
lijle.

in

the

may produce
Grew.
a pleafure fuperior to that of fenle.
INTEGER. ?/./. [Latin.] The whole of

Take away this transformation, and there is no
chafm, nor can it aS<:A the iniigriiy of the ait>ion.
Sroome.

He could n» more live without his frize coat than
without his tkin it is not indeed fo properly his coat,
as what the anatomifls call one of the integuments of
Addifon.
the body.
:

rNTEi>LECT.
leans, Lat.]

whence

is

All heart they live, all head, all eye, all ear.

Milim.

All thofe arts, rarities, and inventions, which vulgar m'ruds gaze at, and tiie ingernous purfue, are but
the reliques of an inteileB defaced with iin and time.
Sottih.

iNTFLLE'cTiON
ttlleaio,

Lat.]

n.f, \JnleUe{lh>i Fr. inThe act of underftanding.
^

Simple apprehcniion denotes the foul's naked/'//e/leBion of an objedl, without either compolui^r. of
GlanviUe's Hce^Jis,
deduction,

They will fay 'tis not the bulk or fubltance ot the
animal

I'pirit,

but

its

motion and agility, that proBiniiey's Sermtns.

duce:^ intcittSiion and fenfc.

Intelle'ctive. adj. \intel eciif, Fr. from
intellecl.] Having power to underlland.
If a man as inielleiiiiie be created, then eiilier he
means ihc whole man, or only that by vvhich he is
intellccii i'e.
Gianv.

Intellectual, adj. \inteUe8Hel, French ;

.ict,

low Latin.]
Relating to the undcrftanding; belonging to the mind ; traufacled by the un-

1.

or

Arbuthnot,

adj.

\JHlegial,

ger, Latin.]
applied to
1. Whole
:

French;

derllanding.

inte-

Religion teaches us to prefent to
as well as our fouls : if the

a

thing confidered

as comprifing all its conftituent parts.
local motion keepeth bodies integral, and their
Bacon's Salural Hijiory.
parts together.

A

integral principles, who, from an
bred up amoiigft mutes, and have no teaching.

be eafed

Ide.nl;

The whole made up of

the fevcral

Having the power of undcrftanding.

4.

Anaxagoras and Plato term the
world an intelUCIiial worker.
Who would lofe.

IVatts.

Inte'grity. ?/./. [iittegrite, Fr.
from integer, Lat.]
I. Honefty ; uncorrupt mind;
manners ^ uucoiiuptednefs.

purity of

Hooker,

Thofe thoughts that wander through eternity,

To perilh rather, fwallow'd up and loft,
Tn the wide womb of uncreated night.

parts, which make up the whole

iittegritas,

Maker of the

Though full of pain, this intel/e!fual ht'mg,

better called integral,

arcdiftinft, and each may fubfill apart.

Halts,

by the intelled, not

In a dark v'iCion's Intelleniea! Cceae^
Beneath a bow'r for forrow made.
Cowley,
The melancholy Cowley lay.
A train of phantoms in wild order rofc.
Pope,
And, join'd, this intelledual fcene compofe.

parts.

A mathematical whole is

perceived

the fcnfes.

tions.

H''le.
body.
Confider the infinite complications and combinations of fevcral concurrences to the conllitution and
Hale.
operation of almoft every integral in nature.

Taylor.

;

lx>gick is to teach us the right ufe pf our rcafon,

into frac-

Phvficians, by the help of anatomical difleftions,
into thofe various meanders of the
veins, arteries, nerves, and imegrali of the human

mult not

it

or /a/f//ffl».j/ powers.

3.

have fearched

the foul in

comprifing the faculty of undcrftanding ; belonging to the mind.

Holder.

n, f.

God our bodies

("erves

m the only offices of religion.

Mental

2.

inlant, fhould be

Not ftaftional ; not broken

body

aftions natural and civil, and intelleliual,

Uninjured; complete; not defeftive.
No wonder if one remain fpecchlefs, though of

when

sfitel.

intelleaualis,
deiivcd the word

unit.

2.

Fr.

All intelleB, all fenf?.

the f.!nty,

As, not only fignified a piece of money, but any

I'ntegral.

[intellea,

n.f.

The inttiligent mind; the

power of underftanding.

any thing.
liMeger; tiom

unbroken; whole.

3. Intirenefs;

Something which is invifibie, ininjlable, and intangible, as cxiHing only in

1'nt EG R AL.

fpriiig will

\iii

has figures engraved on it.

aim at happinefs, and canuoi bear ta have it confined
Dryden,
toout piefcnt beinJ5.

ahte

adj.

and tafliim, Latin.]

DUl.
Not perceptible to the touch.
INTA'GLIO. „./. [Italian.] Any thing that

J.

To thofc that dwell under or near the Equator,

Sviifi,
corrupt

his iniegriiy or underllanding.

furious in their beginnings.

The thought of being nothing afterJeath i> a burden inJvppmtabU\.oi virtuous man: we naturally

tills

towards the extremes of cither, without violence to

another.

1 he nature of an ixjiirrc-tion. .Si.ikefp. Jul. Ctr/ar.

R.iy.

Iksu'pERABLENESS. k. /.

Shakrfp. Macbeth.

Whoever has examined both parties cannot go far

Inte'gument. «./. [ii/ligtimertlu/rt, intego,
Lat.] Any thing that covers or invelops

Like a phantafma, or a hideous dream :
'I'he genius and the mortal inllruments
Arc then in council ; and the Hate ot man.
Like to a little kingdom, fufl'ers then

Drfd,

INSL'PERABLE. adj. [htfuperahilis, Lat.]

ble.']

Wip'd the black fcruples, reconcil'd my thoughts

To thy good truth and honour.

moiintable.]

Latin.]
Insuperability, «./. [from injuferab1e.'\ Insusurra'tion. v. f. [;>////«n-o,
I he aft of whifpering into fomething.
The quality of being invincible.

nothing is infupirablt to pains and patience.
And middle natures how they long to join,

Macdulf, this noble paflion,
Child ot iniegiiiy, hath from my foul

itijur-

Invincibly ; unconquerably.
Insurre'ction. n.f. {injurga Latin.] A

And put upon himfucha dealof man.
That worlhied him.

nails.

difficulty is infwmcuniable.

Insurmo'untably.

king his mafter very lately

To ftrikc at me upon his mifconllruilion ;
When he conjund, and flait'ring his difplcafure,

Mangles true judgment, and beixavej the (lit*
Siaf.
Of that iitlegiiiy which ihould become iU

hocie.
fimplicity and variciv the f.ime.
Hope thinks nothitig difficult j defpair tells us, that

P"!"^
by the tears of king Priam.
2. lo trample upon i to triumph over.

N T

I

Your difhonour

When infupforially his foot advanc'd.

Bmm

fulio, Latin.]
1.

N T

I

But fjfcfthe who ilood aloof.

Taktthe fentfnrt ferioufly, bccaufe railltrie* are
om lit OJyfty.
«n injull on ihe unforf.inaie.

5.

Devoid of fenfe and motion ?
Propofed as the object not

ATlllon,

of the fenfes
as, Cudivorih names his
but intelleft
book the intelUaual fyftem of the uni:

verfe.

Intel.

N T

I

Intelle'ctual.

powers or

mental

ftanding ;

faculties.

Her hufband not nigh,
Whofe higher intclUEIuJ more 1 (hun.

whole kingdom.
Milion.

The fancies of moft, like the index of a clock, are

Inte'lligent.

chine, which, even on the moft I'ublimed ivte Ueiual,
GlamiilU's Serf.
i& dangeroufly influential.
I have not confulied the repute of my inirlleBualt,
prefuchdifcerning
in bringing their weakaeffes into

In te'l LICENCE.
Inte'i.licency.

1 7t./.[iale!ligeNce,

employed men liberally with
money, to draw on and reward }nuil'^enctt\ giving
them alfo in charge to adverlife couiinually what
they found.
JUcon't Hertry'^H.

The advertifements of nei^hbjjr princes are al-

iiayivard.

Let all the pairages
Be well fccur'd, thitt nainuU'gence
May pafs between the prince and them. Denhctm.
Thofe tales had been fung to lull children adeep,

HemUy.

_

2.

Commerce of acquaintance; terms on
which men live one with another.
Factious followers are worfe to be liked, which
follow not upon atfeflion to him with whom they
range themfelves; whereupon commonly enfueth that
ill

He lived rather in a fair inteUigence, than any
3. Spirit ;

revels, and I dare utideruke that all their giant-like
objeciions Ihall vanilh.
Soulh.

Ul'e not' thy mouth to la/.'m^^ra.'c fwearin^ ; lor
therein IS the word offin.
Eccla.iiiw. ij.

His heart or head poffefling, f.xjn infpir'd
Milton's Paradife Lifl.

1.

Poffibility tobeundeiftood.

2.

7 he powerof underftandingintelleflion.

:

Inte'mperately.

Not proper.
The foul's nature confifts in iVf/y/WW/f/v. Glamf
Lat.] 'lo he conceived by the
underflanding poflible to Ix; Bnderftood.

precepts ol the Gofpel, by living inlemperaiely or
unjultly.

2.

We

(hall givefaiislaflion to the mind, toftiew
it a
fair and intdligiilt aciouni of the deluge.
Burmi.

fenfe will remain,

riousangels anJ crei'cd inleliigrncrs.

ed,

which would otherwife be maimDrydcn.

when it is fcarce/»re///j/i/f.

HiillhigJIeei.

Many natural duties relating to God.ourfelves.and
our neighbours, would be extetJing difficult for the
bulk of mankind to find our by reafon ; therefore it
has pleafed Cod to exprefs ihcra in a plain manner,

regularity of motion, vilible in the great valiety and cunofiiy ol bodies, is a demonftralion
that

iNTt'LLlciBLBNESS. tt. /. [from inteiligi-

They hoped to get the favour of the houfes,andby
the favour of the houfes they hoped for that of the
inirWgencii, and by their favour, for that of the
Su-

The

the whole rojfs of matter is under the conduct of
a

mighty inlelligtace.

intelligible to fouli of the loweft capacity.

hle.\

Poflibility to be underftood
per;
fpicuity.

Colli, r.

Sa;sn appearing like a cherub to Uriel, the Inielligence of the fun, circumvented him even in his own
province.

our ideas, that both ihe'rightnefs of our
knowledge, and the propriety or inieltigitlenefs of our
fpeaking confiltr,
Locke.
It

Dryden.

4. Underftanding; ikill.
Heaps of huee woids, up hoarded, hidcouny.

is

;

Have marr'd the face of goodly poelie.

T he genuine fenfe, intelligibly told.
Shews a iranflaior both difcreet and bold. Rofcommon.

Sbenfer,

lKTtLLiCf'NCt».«./ [from intelligence.^
One who fends or conveys news one
who gives notice of private or diftant
tranfaftions
one who carries melfages
;

To write of metals and miucrali, inieltigtbly, 1, a
ta(k more difficult than to write of aminals. H'oodtu.

IxTE'MERATfc.
l.'ndefiled ;
I N

between parties

.>

•

,

humours.

I.

the king of the
Bacf/tt,

Excefs of fome quality.
Intenabi.e. adj. [in and tenable]

an

To IN'IK'ND. v. n. [intenJo, Latin.]
1 .

To ftretch out.

Obfolete.

The fame advancing high above his head,

Wuh Iharp intended Vi>n% fo rude him fmotc.
That to the earth him diove, as ftricken dead ;
Nc living wijlit would have him life bcliot. Fairy ^.
2. "^I'o enforce ; to make intenfc; to ftrain.
What feems to be the ground ol the all'ertion, it
the magnified quality ol this liar, conceived to caufe

Latin.]

or in/indthe heal of this feafon,

we find that wifer

antiquity was not of this opinion.

By ihii the lungs are intended or remitted.
This vis iiieniie

is

effentia! to

Broivn.
Hale.

matter, becaulc it

neither can be ";/«</'./ or remitted i.i ilic lame body

afHux ol laccijtivc
Hartley.

;

but is always proportional lo the quantin of matter.
Cheyne.
Magoetifin may be intended and remitted, and
is found only
the magnet and in iron.
Ncu'i-n,

intemperitntia,\^z\..\

Want of temperance; want of moderation
commonly excefs in meat or

In-

opinion ;

intenableyir/r^.

/. [(« and temfera-

tii;

an intenable

defenfible ; as,

Inte'mperance. 7 it./, [intemperatice, Fr.
Imte'mperanc'Y. J

nijht be tl.t b;il inutligencer, to

tt.

ulcerated, and others upon

B'lwccn the gr >i ; and lanctities of heav'n

Henry \V

\inle;ieratus,

Alnfiu,

Inte'mperature. n.J. [from inlet/iperate.J

Badconftitution

The very opener ai.d intelligencer

U Ihey had inltruflions to ilut purpolc, ihey

Want of moderation.
Unfeafonablencfs of weather.

2.

Some depend upon the in nnperament of the part

Sidney.

How deep you were within the books of heav'n
To us, th imagiii'd voice of heav'n itlelf

ad/.

intempe-

rate. J
1.

unpolluted.

T E 'm P E R A M E N T
t»int.]

His eyes, being hii diligent inirlUgencert, could
carry unto him no other news but difcomloriable.

Spratt.

Intemperateness. »./. [from

in

Inte'lligibly. arl-v. [from intelligible.]
So as to be underltoorl clearly ; plainly'.

They think to be chief praifc of poetry ;
And thereby wanting due intelligtnee.

Sbak.'/f,

lyjtti.

lilloljon.

Immoderately; exceffively.
Do not too many believe no religion to be pure,
but what is intemperattly rigid? Whereas no religion is true, that is not peaceable as well as pure.

S.,raeihing muft b; left in all iranflations, but the

Hule.

With breach of the laws of temperance.
How grofsly do many of us coniradid the plain

1.

ulligtiilis,

There are divers ranks of created beings imermediate between the gioriujs CoJ and man, as the glo-

[from intempe-

ad'v.

rate.]

INTE'LLIGIBLE. at{j. [inulligible, Fr. />/-

Milion.

Exceffive; exceeding the juftorconienient mean
as, an intemperate climate ;
ive l?g--ve intemperate 'weather.

3.

inteiligi-

;

preme God.

Paffionate ; ungovernable ; without rule.
Vou are more intemperate in your blood
Than thole pamper'd animals.
That rage in favage fenfuality.
Shahfpeare.

2.

The devil enier'd ; and his brutal fenfe.

How fully haft ihou fatisfied me, pure

exceffive in me.%t

their cups or thcircofi'ce, they pretend to haveagainft
Chriftianiiy ; pcrfuade but the covetous man not to
deify his mouey, the intempeiatenna to abandon his

As doih your rational.
Miiton'i Paradife Loft.
2. Intelledual ; exercifmg undcrllanding.
In at his mouth

[from

;

Ni)twiih;tanJing all their talk of reafon and philofophy, and tliofe unanfwerable doubts, which, over

Confiftins of unbodied mind.

It./,

[intem/erattt, Tt.

of burials anfwered inproportion to that of licknelfes
but men being more intemperate ihm women, die as
miJch by reafoii of their vices, as women do bv the
infirmity of iheii fix.
Cirani.

^lilton.

Food alike ihofe pure
Intelligential fubftances require.

Intelligibi'lity.

ettij.

or drink; drunken; gluttonous.
More women Oiould die than men, if the number

Shjltefp. JCing Lear.

With a(ft intelligential.

any appetite or

Immoderate in appetite

1 .

Intellige'nti AL. ai/J. [from intelhgeni
.]
1.

It'aus.,

to

intemperntiis, Latin.]

Which are to F»iiice the fpicsand fpeculations
Intelligent of our Hate.

Exceffive addition
afFedion.

INTE'MPERATE.

Servants, who feem no lefs.

Clarendon.

Imrlligetice of heav'n, angel

true lUtc of hit whole kingdom.

drunken man into their company.

Giving information.

3.

unbodied mind.

And our dull working,.

Milton.
Tlic Lacedemonians trained up their children to
hate drunkeniicfs and intemperance, by bringing a
2,

Intiltigeni of hiiom, tliev fet forth
Tlieir airy caravan.

imte/tignce that we fee between great petfonages.

frienJIhip wi(h the iavonrites.

Shallbringon men.

tefl thioughout all this rtupendous fabrick. If^oodw.

before ever Berolus fet up his imtllignct office at
t-'oos.

What mil'ery th' inabllinence of Eve

Ikiiful.

2. It has 0/ before the thing.

ins

ways to be regarded, for that they receive iittrlligetct
from better authors than pcrfous of inferior note.

;

Phillifs.
Trac; out the numerous footfteps of the prefence
and interpofiiionofa moft wife and intelligent ircUi-

!

I

Difeafes dire, of which a monftrous crew
Before ihee Iball appear; that thou miy'll know

InleUigeni, th' harfti hyperborean iCe

Ho&kcr.
!

Yt. intcl-

Shuns for our equal Winters; wlien our funs
Leave the chill'd foil, he backwards wings his way.

;

A mankind KJtch hence with her, out of door
Hbakefpeare.
A moft inteUigtncy bawd

In meats and drinks, which on the earih ihall bring

He of times,

Fr.

dlftant or fecret.
It was perceived there had not been in the catholicksfomuch forclight as to provide that true inteiligence might pal's between them of what was done.

He furailhed

Knowing; inftruiSed

;

Sfe&ator.

that is the more inleiligrnt, as .^rilfotle would have
it; but there is no Uij required for government, courage to proteO, and above all, honefty.
Bacon,

notice; muaccount of things

communication ;

and all kinds of incontinency.
HAe-will.
Some, as thou faw'ft, by violent ftioke fhall die

By fire, flood, famine, by intemperance more

It is not only in oulcr of nature for him to govern

inir/ligentia, Litin.]

J

1. Commerce of information

tual

1.

GlanvilU.

fences.

aiij. \in-elligent,

Anotjier law of Lycurgus induced to intemtertnci,

ligens, Latin.]

moved bat by the inward fpringsof the corporeal ma-

N T

I

They are the bed fort of Intelligencen ; for they
have a way into the inmoft clofets of princes. Hoiivl.
They have news-gatlierers and intelligencers, who
make them acquainted with the converiation of the

unJcr-

This is little in ufe.

'

N T

I

Intellefl;

n. f.

m

3.

To regard; to attend

;

to take care of.

:

drink.

the lacrameiit

Bound lefs tnlemferaHce
In nature is a tyranny.

This they Piould

adminiifercl,

when

iniaj;ine themli:lvcs

walk Uf and down in a while and
Ihining garment.
Hxker,
6 <ijl
Having

called only to

Shakeff. Mue'tetb.

is

carefully intend, and not

1

NT

\

Hiving nochildren, (he did with fingulM eai* and
Baron.
ttnitratUinlirtJ the education of Philip.
The king prayed them to have patience 'till a litover
was
cnuniry,
tic fmoak, that waa raifed in his
Ibjliting, as his manner was, that openly, which

banii,

nevcrthtkfs he irKtndcd ("erioully.

This

To pay regard or attention to.

j^.

Hcbraifms warm and animate our language, and
convey our ihoughis in more ardent and intenfe
AddiJ^n.
phrafes.

Kept on the ftretch

j.

But indifpatity

The one inten/c

it

is

healed, he cannot fuppofe that

force ;

Shak.fpeare.

According to this model Horace writ his oucs and
epods; for his latires aod epiftles, being intended
wliolly for inlhuftion required anotherftyle. Dryden.

being evaporated

n. /.

\JtitcnJion,

Fr.

Bacon.
the intenjion or remiflion of the wind.
Faith differs from hope in the extenfion of its
Taylor.
objcO, and in the intenjim of degree.

Int'ensive. adj. [from ;>;/«{/<>.]
Stretched or increafed with
itfelf ;

that

which may admit encreafe of

and were it not infinitely
greater than the perf'ertion of an angel, it could not

Aituil^not.

Ikte'ndIment.

». /.

Fr.]

[entendemenl ,

Attention; patient hearing ; accurate examination. '1 his word is only to be found

'

be mlinitelygreatcrthan ihe pifleitinn of a man, bccaufe (he intrnfive diftance between the periettion of
Hjie.
an angel and of a man is but lini;e.

Iste'ndment.

». /.

\enUH(kment,

Fr.]

Intention ; defign.
Out of my love to you, 1 came hitherto acquaint
you withal that either you might ftay him from his
inteniimeat, si brook fuch difgface well as

Intent.
1.

lie

(hall

Shakffpeare.
»
All that worfhip for fear, profit, or lome other
by-end, fall more or lefa within tlie intendment of

VHJlr^m^e

this emblem.

Inte'nerate. I.', fl. {in ina teller, Lat.]
To make tender j to foften.
Autumn vigour gives,

E(|ua!, intenrrjiing, milky grain.

Yet in ihis caplious and intenibi((K\*,
Shakeff.

INTE'NbE. aJj. Untin/iis, Lat.]
forced ;

high degree;
not flight ; not lax.
to

a

1

wilh others the fame in.'estion and greater fuc-

T.mfle.

c«ires.

Moft part of chronical diftempers proceed trom
laxity of the fibies ; in which cale the principal inArhntbnot on Aliments.

The ftate of being intenfe or ftrained.

3.

This for diftinftion is more generally
and more conveniently written intenjion.
The operations of agents admit of intention and
riation.

fo enilavcd to ihe ne-

higent being is bound to confult, by a direil and

Deligned ; done by defign.
The glory of God is the cud which every intelli-

intention.']

K^grrs

tentionat fervice.

iNTE'KTIONALt.-V. adnj. [Uovu inte>ttiivtil.\
By defign with fixed choice.
1
;,

1 find in

myfelf that this inward principle doth

exert many c. its actions ;«/ir».'fMmV)iaudpurpolelv.

Hale,
2.

In will, if not in aftion.
Whenever I am wift.ing to write 10 you,

A defign; a purpofej a drift; a view
formed; meaning.

I

(hall

conclude you arc intentionally doing (o to me.
Alietbiiry to Pope.

Int'ent. «./. [from intend.]
I.

L^cke.

,

iNTk'NTlONAL. Oi^'. [intentioKel Fr. from

the fpeakcr.

Btiyle.

Ro/am.

Defign ; purpofe.

2.

Of a£lion eager, and intent on thought.
The chiefs your honourable danger fought. Drydrn.
Were men i% intent ufan this as on things of lower

Bi intent and felicitous to take up the meaning of
"^"»-

To obfcrve Ihe tUcfls of a diftillation, profecutcd
tured to come near.
Sublime or low, unbended or intenfe.
The found k ftiU a tomroent to Uie fenfe.

mination i which cannot be done without fome labour and intention of the mind, and the thoughts
dwelling a confiderable time upon the fuivey and difSouth.
cuflion o! each particular.

remiffion ; but cdences are not capable of fuch va-

witlioul attention to the c«nfeijuen«es that may affeft
Hjatts.
another.

ftrained;

with fo intcnfe and unufual degree of heat, we ven-

Sheikcfp.
fcorch me up like a burning-glafs.
In perfons poffelTed with oihcr notions of religion,
the underftanding cannot quit thefe but by great exa-

ceflities

cannot hold.
I know 1 love in vain, ftrive a^ainft hope

.Raifed

She did ccurfe o'er my exteriors with fuch a greedy
intention, tlint the appetite of her eye did feem to

Clarendon,

concernment, there are none
of life, who might not find many vacancies
that might be hulbanded to this advantage of their
Locke.
knowledge.
Whilft ihey ate intent on one particular part of
their theme, they bend all llieir thoughts to prove
or difprove fome propofition thai relates to that part

Ihat

Hooker.

underftanding to work upon.

Miilm.

Intent.

Not in ufe.

I.

oflhc inferior powers of the foul, which cannot
therein long continue without pain : it hath been
cherctore thought good, by turns, to interpofe ftill
fome\%hat for the higher piit of the mind and the

tion

is

command.
They on their mirth and dance

Bacon.

my love.

it

Ills

degite of youth, and intentralion of the parts.

I ftill pour in the waters of

LccKc
dinary lolicitalion ot other ideas,
Eficflual prayer is joined with a vehement inten-

The general himfclf had been more intent upon

In living crealures the nobleft ufe of nouridiment
lil'e, rcftoraiion of fome
it for the prolongation ef

..

Intinii'jn is when the mind with great earneflneff,

tention is to leftore the tone of the folid paits.

a good fign that we are rather
intent upon God's glory than our own convenience.
Taylor
laid before us,

[tntenticn, Fr. tnientio,

and ot choice, fixes us view on any idea, confiders it
on every fide, and will not be called ofifby the orJi-

When we ufe but thofe means which God hath

Pbll/ifs.

teuible.']

an iucurable Ulndncfs caufed by a re-

of mind.

Commonly with on.

2.

Duncijd.

whatever

Latin.]
Eagernefs of defire ; clofenefs of attention ; deep thought ; vehemence or ardour

1.

[/«/c«/w, Lat.]

'

is

fenfes,

L'EJlrange.

ac-

diligent; fixed with clofe
«.
_
application: formerly «iih /o.
Diftradlions in England made moft m<n intent to
King Charles.
their own fafety.
_

InteneRa'tION. tt. j. [from inteneratr.]
The aft of foftening or making tender.

Intenibi-E. adj. [in and

(7.-//.

half veil the deep intent.

Inte'ntion. ». /.

angels are more free than we
inienjively in the degree of iricdom j

Anxioufly

upou

Sotilh.
blind as he that cannot.
He was miferabic to all intents and purpofes.

cording to a liberty of exercife, but not of fpeciiicaEramhjU againfi Hobbei.
tion.

run into.

•

1 here

God and the goad
are, that is,

Sicily,

folution not to fee ; and, /• all intents and purpofes,
he that will not ojen- his eyes is for ilte prefent as

IVoiun.

but not extenfivelym ihe htitude of the object,

,

To all intents. In all
be meant ordefigued.

Tired with that afTiduous attendance and inlenjivr
ciicumfpcrtion, which a long fortune did require,
he was not unwilling to bcilovv upon another fome

i

Tfl

As half to lliew
2.

Inte'nsively. adv. By encreafe of degree.

by grave inteniiment
What woman, and wheiefore doth we upbraid.
Spenjer,

fleet to

Grew,

z. Intent; unremitted.

'Till well ye wot,

iheir

Of darknefs vifible fo much he lent.

perfection of an angel j

put of the pains.

in Spettfir.
Be nought hereat difmay'd,

fent

pretence only to alTift the I.contmes ; but with an
intent to make themfelves mailers of that illand.

refpeft to

bu-

both left relationsof the Indies.

The Athenians

laxation.
Sounds will be carried further with the wind than
againft die wind; and iikewife to rife and fall with

1.

Dryden's Mv.

One who delights in wars.

iuUnfio,

The aft of forcing or draining
Lat.]
any thing; contrariety to remiflion or re-

degree.
As his pcrfeflion is infinitely greater than the perfeflion of a man, fo it is inliniiely greater than the

linefs.
Nearchus, who commanded Alexander's fleet, and
Onelicraies, his inlenddnt geneialof marine, have

Clarence hnih not another day to live. Shakeff/are,
This fury, fit for hit intent (he chafe i

(f'tiodward.

iNTt'JiDANT. ti.f. [French.] An officer
of the higheft clafs, who overfees any
particular allotment of the piiblick

And, if I fail not in my deep intent,

The

in proportion to the greater or leffer

Inte'nsion.

Sidney.

As clofcly 10 conceal what we impart.

Whereas commandment was given to deftroy aU
places where ibe Canaanites had ferved llie gods,
this precept had reference unio a fpecial intent and
purpofe, which was, that there (hould be but uue
place whereuuto tlie people might bring ofTcrings.

contrariety to laxity or remiflion.

mire or lefs,

art fworn

As deeply to affcfl what we intend.

will

The wat:r of fprings and rivers, that fuftains a di-

vorJs ihemfelves founded fo, as (he could not imaSidney.
gine what they Intended,
The gods would not have delivered a foul into the
body, which haih arms and legs, only inftrumenis
of doing, but that it weie intended the mind ihould

Hooker.

pematural.

of being enforced in a high degree ;

inlciiftntjs of heat.

employ them.

it

Addifr.n.

minution from the heat above,

The opinion (lie had of his wifdom was fuch, as

it

H'^oirr.

ftate

made her efteem greatly of his words: but that the

kinds, although

all

Thofe that accufe him in his intent towards our
Sbakefp,
wives, are a yoke of his difcarJrd men.
I'll urge his hatred more (o CUrence ;

Inte'nseness. n.f. [from »*/?»/(' ]

to defign.

variety of matter in

abound wiih all forts of laws, yet the principal /»/M/ of Scripture is to deliver the laws of duties fu-

To a

intaiji.}
:

cool "again.

IValltr.

finite

not remifsly.
If an Englilliman confiders our world, how in.

ttnjely

iNouaht can our wilhu, fave ihy healtli inund.

Thou

Hilton's Paradife Loft-

[from

adnj.

great degree; not flight!-

While here (hall be our home, what bed may eafe
Mii.m't Paradlfe hefl.
The prefent mifery.
Their beauty they, and we our loves lufpcnd ;

•

the oiher ftill rcinifi.

;

Tedious alike.

Inte'nsely.

!

;

anxioufly attentive.

Cannot well luit with either, but foon prove

They could not intend to the recovery of thai
Sfcnfrr.
country of the north.
Neither was there any who mi;ht (hare in the gopleafure.
huenjej
his
vernment, while the king
Baecn'a Henry VII.
The earl was a very acute and found (peaker,
If-'elion.
when he would inifnd it.
Co therefore, mighty pow'rs hitenJ at home,

To mean

;

NT

I

Although the Scripture of God be dared with iii-

Vehement ; -Ardent.

J.

fenfe is now little uftxl.

c.

N T

iNTE'riTiVE.

adj.

[from

intent.]

gentiy applied ; bufily attentive.

Dili-

I

N T

I

Wlier* the objefl is fine and accurjte, it conduceth much to the finfe inteniive and ereiil.
Bacon' t NuturiU Hifi'jry
The naked relation, at leaft the iaitifivt coiilideratiori nf iha', is able '.11, and at this difadvantage of time, to rend the hearts of pious contemBroom's yul^cir Errcurs.
plators.

Inte'ntively. ad'v. [frora
With application ; clofely.
Inte'ntlv. t7iiv. [from iatetttJ]

that intercedes ;

To

The better couife ihouid be by piai

with eager defire.
If wc infirt paffionately or fo intently on the truth

Mufler'd my foldicrs, gaihei 'd flocks of friends,
March'd towards St. Albans t' intiicefl ihe queen.
Shakejf.

.

Your intercepted packets
You writ to ihe Pope.
Sbatefft. Henry VIII.
It we hope for things which are at too great a diftancc Irom ua, it is polTible that we may be intercepted by death in out progrels towards them.

Inte'ntnlss.
ftate

tion.

He is more difeDgageJ from

his

ittlmtnefs

aflTairs.

on

Sivi/t>

ydNTE'R

-v.

a.

to bury.
;
Within their chiefeil temple I'll ereft

A tomb, wherein his corps

Ifi^il

be interr^J,

To obftruft

;

to cut off;

faid to have been inter t ed between the very \vall and

Addijiii.

To cover with earth.
The beft wjy is to intir them as you furrow peafe.
MoTt.

Ikte'hcai.ar. allj. \[hitercalmre ,Yt, inI.nte'rcalary.
] ienalaris.Lau] In-

common order to pre
ferve the equation of time, as the twentyfcrted out of the

ninth of February in a leap year is an
inlercalaiy day.
a.

[inurca'er,

Fr.

To infert an extraordi-

intertalo, Lat.J

nary day.

IntERCala'tion. ». /. \inter(alat':ott, Fr.
iniercalatio, Lat.]

Infertion of days out
reckoning.
In fixty-lhiee years there may be loft almoft eigh-

C/f the ordinary

teen days, omitting the interralati'^n ot o:ic uay
every fourth year, allowed for this quadrant, or fix

fupemumerarics.

Brazen.

To IN TERCE'DE. -v. n.

[ialtrctder,

Fr

inlenedo, Lat.]

•

1.

To pafs between.
He I jppofeth that a vaft period !nter(rJeJ\>ttviKu
that originaiion and ihe age wherein he lived. Hjle.

Thofe fuperficies rtfieit the grejtell quaniijy of
light, which have the greaieii refrafling power, and
which /»/<•) ffi/f mediums that differ moll in their
refrattivc dcnfilics.
Nnvlon.
mediate; to aft between two parties
2.
with a view of reconciling differcikes.

To

has

only one part be named,
and btt^vein if both are named.
Then the ifbd (on
It

njiith

if

Prefenting, i:

<-./«

Norwas
die for us, ai _ ^

'

began.

Mihin.

>auronlyoi.'r piopitialioirto

.^.r atonement, but h
is ftill
our advocate, continually interceding tvub hii
father in bchalfof all true penitent!.
Calamy.
I may reftore myfflf .iiio die good
fraces of my
fair crilicks, and your IcrdOiip may intercede tLith
Ihem on my promift o! amei.dmeni.
Drydrn.
Ongen denies that any prayer is to be made to
them, although it be only to intercede -wilt Cud f.ji

1,

us, but ODljr the Son of Gud.

To chain

Stillingfeei.

;

[inter

and chain.]

to link together.

Two bofoms interchained with an oath ;
So then two bofoms, and a fiiigle troth. Sh.ikefpeare,

?6JIntercha'nce. -v. a. [inter anichange,\

To put each in the place of the other;
to give and take mutually
to exchange.
They had left but one piece of one fhip, whereon

1.

;

they kept themfclvcs in all truth, having inlerehanged
their cites, while either cared for other, each comforting and ;ounrelling how to labour for the better,
and to abide the woric,
Sidney*
I fiiall

interchange

My wained ftate for Henry's regal crown. Sbakefp.
2. To fucceed alternately.
His faithful friend and brother Euarchus came fo
mightily to his fuccour, that, with (omc i/ttei changing changes of fortune, they begat of a juft war, the
belt child pe.;ce.

ties.

Thofe have an interchtingf or trade with Klana.
Hchuel.

Alternate fucceffion.
With whatdelight could I have walk 'd thee round!

2.

3. It is ufed of the aft of pafling.
Since death's near, and runs with fo much force.
We muft meet firft and intercept his courfe. Dryd.

If 1 could joy in ought

iiitcrchanges of light and darknefs, and fucceffion of
feafons.

When fwarming o'er the dufky fields they fly.
New to tlie flotv'rs, and intercept the flty. Dryden,

the firft ages aTter the flood.

Let Diomedes bear him.

And bring us Creflid hither.

Lat. from intercepf.'\ Stoppage
in courfe; hindrance; obltruftion.
terceplio,

The pillars, (landing at a competent diftance from
the outmoft wall, will,
/ff.vriy^;;o« of the fight,
fomesvhai in appearancediminilh the breadth.
iVolton'i ArchiteSlme.
The word in Matthew doth not only lignify fuf-

^

penfion, but alfo fudcication, Arangulalion, or intet.
ception of bicilh,
Brotin.

Intercha'nceable.

tat,] Mediation ; intcrpofition ;
agency between two parties ; agency in
the caufc of another, generally in his favour, fomeiimes againll him.

1.

He maketh intercijjion to Cod againft Ifrael.
Rom. xi. 2.

He bare the fin of many, and made intercrffion lor
the tranlg.clTors.
Ifa.UW.iz.
Pray not thou for this people, neither make inlcr-

hear thee. Jer. vii. |5.

To pray to the faints to obtain things by their
merits and iniercr£;cncy is allowed and comcnded for
StilUngfleel.

Your intercrffkn now is jieedlefs grown j
Retire, and let mc fpeak with her alone,

Interc fc'ssouR. ». y;
itrcejjii, Ls.t.'l

Dryd,

Fr itiMediator; agfnt between
[iitlcrci-JJeur,

two parties to procure reconciliation.

adj.

[fiom

i?ilei-

Given and taken mutually...
So many teftimonics, interchiingraile wananfj,
and couiitetrolments, running through ilic hands and
rcrting in the power of fo many feveral pcilons, is
fufficient to argue and convince all manner of falfehood.
Bacon's Off. of Alienation,

Loving, and iherclore conilaiit, he ufed ftill the
inlercfjpcin of diligence and faith, ever hoping becaufe he would not put himfelf into that hell to be
~
Sidney.
hoftelcfl.
Can you, when you pufti'd out of your gates the
very defender of them, think to front his revenges
with the p..,.iod intetcej/lon of fuch a dccay'J d tard
as you fccm to be ?
Hhakefpeare.

'

chemgf.]

[interceJion,Yt. in-

tercejfio,

Good Diomede,

Furnilh you fairly for this interchange.
Shai,
Farewelj iheleifure, and the learlul time.
Cuts ofrtheccrenionious vows of love,
.^iid ample interchange o! fweet difcourfe.
Shakefp.
Since their more mature dignities made fcparaiion
of their fociety, their encounters, though not petfonal, have been royally attornied with interchange
of gifts.,
Shatejpeaie,
After fo vaft an obligation, owned by fo tree au
acknowledgment, could any thing be expcfled but a
continual interchange of kindnelfes ?
Sot,:h,

Pope.

InterCe'ption. //. /. \interceptic7i, Fr. /«-

by the Roman church.

Burnet's Tbcary,

Mutual donation and reception.

3.

The direful woes.
Which vo; aging frjm Troy the viflors bore,

tor I will not

Holder,

Removes and interchatiget would often happen in

Thick as the college of the bees in May,

ccjpon tome;

fweet interchange

lights in the firmament, are perceptible to us by the

On barbed ftceds they rode in proud array.

Interce'ssioh. ». /.

!

Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains. Milt..
The original meafures of time, by help of the

4. It is ufed of that to which the pafikge is
direfted.

While ftorms unditlive intercept tlie lliore.

Sidney.

Intercha'nge. «./. [from the verb.]
1. Commerce; permutation of commodi-

Shakefp.

Behind the hole I faftcned to the paltcboard, wiili
pitch, the blade of a ifiarp knife, to iflercept luine
partof tlic light which palled through tfteliole.

Hi» body ihdil be royally interred^

Te Iste'rcalate. o;.

To Intercha'in. v, a.

NrtvUn't Optieh.

And the lalt funeral pomps adorn his herfe. D'yden.
The aOies, in an old record of the covenant, arc
the altar where they were taken up.

from

paffing.

For that they will not intercept my" t»ie.
SL\ik.

The evil that men do lives after them ;
The }jd ii oft >«/ri /f</ with their bones. Shahff,

2.

to flop

being communicated ; to ftop in the progrefs.
It is ufed of the thing or perfon
Though they cannot anfwer ray -Jiftref ,
Yet in fome fort they're better thin the tribunes;

[etiferrer.Yt.]

To cover under ground

1.

Addison's Spe£lator,
2.

'

Patron or interci^Jfoitr^ none appear'd.
Milton,
When we (hall hear oureternal doom fromouri»will
terceffour, it
convince us that a denial 01 Chrift
is more than tranfitory words.
South.

ii^tnjer,

VH\o intencfis me in my expedition ?
O, ihe that might have intetcipted thee.
By flrangling thee.
Shakeffeare'i Richard III.
1 th.",i in London, kccperof the king,

Fairf.

On man's behalf.

drawn out Ihal! be always ready <'ip'n-

tevcept his going or coming.

;

n. f. [from inUnt.^
The
of being intent; anxious applica-

.ng of garwhich, uhenfoever hc-lhall look

rifons about him,

N T

Behold the heav'ns ! thither thin* eyefight bend

Thy looks, fighs, tears for intercejfauri fend.

mediator.

To flop and feize in the way..

1.

With

of our beliefs, as not to proceed to as vigorous purliatmnond.
fuit of alljuft, fober, and godly living.
The odd paintings of an lodiaa fcieen may pleafe
a rmlc; but when )ou fix your eye Intently upon
tLeo), they appear fo difproportioned that they give a
Attnlury,
judicious eye pain.
The China medal feats him with a volume open,
Popr.
and reading intently,

a

INTERCE'PT. i: a. iintercepter, Fr.

forth, or be

with clofe application

I

One

iuterceptus, Lat.]

inleun've.]

clofe attention ;

NT

Intsrce'der. «./. [from wurcede,']

2.

Following each other in alternate fucceffion.
Juft under the line they may fcem to have two
Winters and two Summers; but there alfo they have
four interchangeable feafons, which is enough whereby to meafure.
Holder,
All along the hiftory of the Old Teftamcnt we
find tiic interchangeable providences of Cod, towards
the people of Ifrael, always fuitcd to their mannere.
Tillotf.in.

Intercha'ngeably.

adi',

[from

inter-

chatigeable.]

Alternately ; in a manner
whereby each gives and receives.

In thefe two things the Eart and Well churches
,did inierchiingeably both confront the Jews and concut with them.
Hooker.
This in myfclf I bo'dly will defend,
And interchangeably hurl down my gage
Upon this overweening traitor's foot.
Sbakefpeart.
Thcfe articles were figncd by our plenipotentiaries, and tbofc of Holland; but nut b.y the French,

aUhough

N T

I

I

NT

I

N T

although it ought to hive been done imercbangtaH^ ;
and the minilVers here prevailed on the queen to
execute a ratifieai ion of articles, which only one part

moved placidly before, meeting with particles in tlie
that of fome very fubtle hitetcwirnt matter, thofe

Divifioni hiader Ihe common interefi and publick
good.
iemflf.
There is no man but Cod hath put many things

Stvi/i.

aflive parts prefeuily begin to penetrate, and I'catter

into his polTcirion, to be ufcd for the

had fign:d.

Intercha'ncement.
Exchange

chauge.]

/ [inter and

k.

mutual transference.

;

motion of its

iron, altering the

parts, and perhaps

Boyle,

abroad particles of the iron.

Intkrde'al. ff./ [inter anA decl.^

Traf-

fick ;

Attefted by the holy clofe of lips,
Siteugthen'J by inifrchjxgfment of your rings.
Shiikffpfart.

yet retained of the Wellhmen and Britons of France;
though the alteration of the trading and inlerdeal
with other nations has greatly altered the dialcO.

[inlercipian, Lat.]
aJJ.
Obftru(fting ; catching by the way.

To INTERDl'CT. f, a. [interdire, Fr. /«-

Interci'pient. ». /.

[mUrcipietts,

An intercepting power

;

terdico,

Lat.]

fomething that

aftringencv, unlefs as inli'cifiems upon the parts

Inter

;

to the afpcra ar-

phlegm cleaving

ncfs, or vifcous

Holder

Interch;'sion. ». /. [hiterdufm, Lat.]
interception.

Obftruftion ;

Intercolumnia'tion. n. f. [inter and
The fpace between the
columna, Lat.J

the fame.

diameter, becaufe the materials
commonly laid over this pillar were rather oi wood
mtton.
than Hone.
[inter aai cont'V. n.
To

To feed at the fame table.

that
is to be forborn in confumptions, for
the fpirits ol the wine do prey upon the rofcid juice
of the body* and ifttercontmoa with the fpiiits of
the body, and fo rob them ot their nourilhment
Bacon' t Nalki al Hijtay.

InteRCOMMu'nITY. ». /.

[inter iTid. com-

When im'reji calls ofTall her fneaking train. Pofe,

munity.^

A mutual communication or community.
2. A mutual freedom or exercife of religion.

InTERCo'sTAL.

adj.

[interrojial,

Fr. inter

and cojia, Lat.] I'laced between the ribs.
The diaphijgm leems the principal inllrumcnt ol
ordinary rcfpiratiou, although to reliraincd refpirafioyle.
tion the intercoflal mulcles may concur.
By the alTiltanceof the upward inteicoflal mufcles,
in deep fulpirations, »c take large gulps ol air.

More.

1'ntercourse. »./. [entrtcours,Yx,'\
exchange.
1. Commerce
;

This fwect inicrceurfe

Of looks, and fn.ilts for Imiles from reafon flow.
To brute dcnv'd, and are of love the food. Mill(.a.
;

followed by ivith.
The choice of the pbcc leq'iiteth many ciiiim-

Communication

:

Aances, as the liiuation near ihe fea, for thecommoikicn.
dinufnefs of an imercvurfi u.ilh England.

What an hcnoui is it that CJod thould adaiit us
into fuch a participation of hirofelf !

That he Ihould

Jive us minds capable of luch an iniertiMrfe iviib
Aimiury.
the Siipicme Mind !

In r KRCU rrence.

«. /.

[from iutercuno,

Paffligc lietween.

Confider uhat fluidity fallpctre it capable cf,
Boyit.
without the i/itrrcituenet i)i t liquor.

Inter cuRR esjt. irdj. [intercurrtm, Lat.J
Running between.
If Into a pliial, hlled with {ood fpirit of nitre,
}uu caft a piece ol iron, the liquor, whufe parts

Money paid for ufe

5.

ufury.

;

Didhe take /(ifcriy??
No, not take intereji \ not, as you would fay,

dain the interdi^i and prohibitions touching enBacon,
trance of ftrangcrs.
Thofe are not fruits forbidden, no interdi£if
Defends the touching of thefe viands pure

Their taftc no knowledge works at Ical't of evil.
Milion.
Had he liv'd to fee her happy change.
He would havecancell'd thathaifli/'/i/oii'/fl.
And join'd our hands himfelf. Dryd, Don. Sthajt.
pnpal prohibition to the clergy to
2.

^bakef^tare.

Direfth , /ff/V*;/^.

we lead, my dear, to be I'o icazed

It is a fad lite

paying inttreJUm old debts, and ftiU contiaiting new
Arbutbnot,
ones.

Any furplus of advantage.

6.

With all fpccd
Sb.ii.
You (hall have your defires with inlereJI.
To iNTERFt'RE. T. ». [inter and/erio, Lat.J
1. To interpofe; to intermeddle.

So cautious were our ancel^ors in converfation, as
never to interfere with party difputcs in the tlate.
Sviift.

celebrate the holy offices.

To claih

to oppofe each other.

Kanicairitd hiinfelf meritoriouflyagainft the pope,
in the time of the inurdici, which held up his

2.

credit among the patriots.

Sma/ri,lge'i Sermons.
mands may interfrre.
^. A horfe is faid to iaterfeii, when the
fide of one of his (hoes ftrikes againft
and hurts one of his fetlocks ; or the hitting one leg ngainft another, and ftriking

H'ollon.

Interdi'ction. n. J. [interJiSlion, Fr. inlerdiiUo, Lat. from interdict.
1.

forbidding decree.

Prohibition;

.Sternly he pronounc'd

2.

Yet dreadful in mine ear. Milton's Parad'ife Loft.
Curfe: from the papal interdicl. An im1

tic

r»lNTERE'iS.

1

11.

a. [inlen-Jfer, Fr.]

'1

concern; to aiTctl; to
give (hare in.
The mvHical communion of all faithful men is

fuch as inaketh every one to be interrfftd in thofe
precious blcliings, which any one ot tlwm receiveth

Our joy.
Although our laft not
to whofe young love.
The vines ot France and milk of Burgundy,

may conlilt of any terrene or aqueous corkept fwimming in the ixterjluent celcftial
Boyit.

m.ii ter.

Interfu'. GFNT.
Lat.J

is

natural to

ill

Embracing round this florid earth.

To Int£R e'st. t. «. To affeifl ; to move ;
to touch with paflion ; to gain the affeftion^
as, this is an interejimg ftory.
I'NTLREsr. n. J. [intereji, Lat. interet, Fr.J
I. Concern; adviintage ; good.

is

divided only by the /»-

HJe.
2.

The thing lying between.
Its

flu^uations are

birt

motions, which wintls,

florms, llioars, and every inlcrjacemy irregulatcs.

Brtnvn.

Interja'cknt.

[inerjacem, Latin.
lying between.
adj.

Intervening;
The lea itlelf muft be very broad, and void of
little

illands inltrjucent, elfe

will

it

yield plentiful

ai^umciit 01 quarrel to the kingdoms which it litrveth.
Raleigb.

Through this hole, objeCls that were beyond might
be fcen dittindly, which would not at all be frcn
thrC'Ugh other parKOI the glaifcs, where the air was
interjacent.

Aft*//9»'j Ojtticks,

In ierjec'tion. ». /. [interjejlion, Fr. interjcdio, Lat.J

great inttreji of others, as well as ourfelves.

Hammond.

The aft or (late of lying between.
England and Scotland

:

O give us a fcrious comprehenfton of that one

Mitton,

[from iuierjactus,

n. J\

terjacency of the Tweed and (orae defert ground.

Sctpio, reftoring the Sp.ini(h bride, gained a threat

nation to inttreji thcmlelves for Uotne againl^ tjarDryden,
thage.
This was a goddefs who ufed to interrji licrleif in
Addif'.n i-n IMt.ia/i.
marriages.
Ill lucceflrs did not difcouragc that ambitious and
Arbuthnot on Coim.
intercjled people.

Pour-

Lat.]
1.

Otydrn.

mtn.

iwA fulgent,

adj. iuierfnftis, Lat.J

Inter) a'cency.

To

glory, to be inlerejftd in its conceins,

[inter

ed or fcattered between.
The ambient air wide inierfui'd.

Strive to be inierrfs'd.
SbjkeJ'f. King Lear.
love our native country, and to Ifudy its beits

adj.

Shining between.

Interfu 's ED.

Icart ;

neht and

^tin.J

Air

Hmkcr.

at Cod's hands.

[intirfiuens,

pufcles,

o

rolNTf re'st. J

Farrier's Di^.

ofFthe Ikin.

Inte'h FLUENT, odj.
Flowing between.

trucit ilTiie of thy throne.

Shake/ft.
By his own interdi^ion Itands accurft.
Intfrdi'ctor Y. adj. [from interdicl.] BeAinj-worth.
longing to an interdiction.

;

If each aits by an independent power, their com-

The i\g\innJrrdic1iott, which refounds

proper ufe of tlie word.

1.

Lat.]

Ayliffe.

Prohibition; prohibiting decree.
Amongll his other fundamental laws, he did or-

1.

own

Interco'mmon.

2.

Wherever inttreji or power thinks lit to interfere,
imports what principles the oppoliie parties
think tit to charge upon each otht^r.
Svjift.
it little

Interdi'ct. »,/. [from the verb.]

The diftance or intercolumniathn may be near
four of his

Regard to private profit.

4.

To prohibit from the enjoyment of com-

A

pillars.

mon.]
Wine

Endeavour to adjuft the degrees of influence, that
each caufe might have in producing the e0e^, and
the proper agency and in'.errjl of each therein, h'at:s,

imerd'iti his luttragans, but his vicar-general may do

itttercifim, not abfciffion, or confummate defolation.

to intercept.
thing intervening
The voice is fomeiimes iitercluJed by a hoarfe-

terrft.

munion with the church.
An Archbiftiop may not only excommunicate and

By ceffation of oracles we may underftand their

:

To Ibrbid

lickel.

Ptiir.

Share; part in any thing; participation
as, this is a matter in which we have tn-

Lat.J

Ncnnortal touch'd this InterdiSid ground,
2,

Interruption.

Bvnvn.
To Interlcu'de. T. ». [intercJuio, Lat.]
To Ihut from a place or courfe by fome-

They bear thedifmal milchief far away.
3.

to prohibit.
;
Alone I pafs'd, through ways
That brought me on a tudden to the tree
Of /«;<-ri//c?fiy knowledge.
Milinn's Par. Lcjl.
By magick Icnc'd, by fpellstQicompafs'd round,

1 .

They commend repellents, but not with much
above, left the matter Ihould thereby be impafted in
IViJfman
the part.
ci'sioN. n.f. [inter &nA c<edo, Lat.

loft their ////fiY/?.

Stenfet .

caufes a ftoppage.

leria.

They, « ho had hitherto prcferved them, had now
Ciaind^n.
Exert, great God, thy ini'rrft in the (ky;
Cain each kind pow'r, each guardian deity,
That, conquet'd by the publick vow.

The Gaulilh fpecch is the «ry Britiffa, which is

Interci'pient.

Calamj.

2. Influence over others.

Obfolete.

intercourfe.

A contra^ and eternal bond of love.
Confirm 'd by mutual joinder of your hands,

common good

and iatertjl.

I .

A part of fpeech that difcovers the mind
to

N T

I

Ts Inter li'ne. -v. a,

fuch as are in Engliih, O / alas! ah!

1.

2.

continual expullion of the
breath, with the loud noife which maketh the /V/^^t-fl/off of laughing,
BacQ».

Interlinea'tion.

II.

/.

[i/t.'er

Interlu'nar.

ner, with fuch frequent blots and interlimatir.ni,
that they are haidly able to go on without perpetual helitatians.
Sui/t.

Interi,u'nary. S
Lat.j
Belonging to
the time when the moon, about to change,

rv.

a.

{inter

and

Some tikk not worth an egg, ihall^row dear friends.
And interjiiin their ilTues.
Sliaitff. CzriJanus.

into

The lair

and imprints it
the more deeply into our imagination and our memory thiie are two chains which are inierlinktd,
which contain, and are at the fame tinK contained.

iituricur,

it

Intsrlocu'tiow. n. /.

The fooVm')lt:iui)e, that chufe by (how.
Not learning m^jre than the fond eye doth leach,
Wli:ch pry n-it to ih* i^teriour.
HbakeJ^traie.
The grolfer parts, thus funk down, wojid harden,
and conllitute the iMiitimr parts of the earth.

To Lnterla'cf.. f.

a.

{interlijp/r,

inlrrlacej between the divine
readings of the law and prophets.
Hi',ker.
ambaHadors
interlaced,
The
in their conlcrence,
the purpofe of ibeii matter to match with the daughter of Maximilian.
Bacon.
They ackr.owledged what fervices he had done
for the commonwealth, yet interlacing fome errors,

wherewith theyfeemcd to reproach him. H.iyicard.
Yuur aijument is as ftrong againll the ufe of
rliyme in poems as in plays ; for the epick way is
every where interlaced W\\\i dialogue.
Drjden.

Interla'fse. n.f. {inter saA iaffe.]
Jhe
flow of time between any two events.
Thefe diegs are calcined

into fuch falii, which,

after a ihort inteilaffe of time, produce coughs.

tiarvey,

7a Inter la'rd. 'v. a. [interlarJer, Kr.J
1. To mix meat with bacon, or fat; to
diverfify lean with fat.
;

be

to infert between.
initrlarded,

after

ciitlom, by ages young and old.

the Peifian
'

Caietv.

To diverfify by mixture.

The laws of Normandy were the defloration of
the Englifti laws, and a iranfcript of them, ihoueh
mingled and interlarded with many particular laws
of their own, which altered the features of the onB'nal.

4.

Hale' I La-u I

Phi'ipt has ufed this,

^f England.

word wery harlhlyj

and probably did not undcrftand it.
They imieilard their native drinks with choice
Of ftrongeft brandy.
fhilipi.

?» Imterle'ave. 'u. a. [////cr and leame.']
To chequer a book by the infenion of
blank leaves.

"»«•

Ayl.ge-sl-a, ergon,

Interlo'cutor. n.f.

another.
Some are to be

To interpofe

Huaker,

Preparatory proceeding in law ; an intermediate aft before final decifion.

Thefe things are called accidental, becaufe fome
new incident in judicature may emerge upon them,
on which the judge ought to proceed by interhcu-

To intermix; to put one thing within

3.

Marriage between two families,
wlierc each takes one and gives one.

riage.]

[inter

and

lo^uor,

Lat.]
Dialogirt; one that talks with
another.
Some morofe readers (hall find fault with my
having made the inttrlocntoii compliment with one
another.

-inter anil loquor, Lat.

Addif.n.

7a iNTtRMA'RRV. -L'. «. [inter and marry.]
To marry fome of each family with the
other.
About the middle of the fourth century, from
the building ol Rome, it was declared lawful
for
nobles and plebeians to intermarry.
Sivift,

To Interme'ddle

When the minifter by exhortation raifeth them
up, and the people by proteftation of their readinefs
declare he fpeaketh not in vain unlothem; thefe
imerlcctitory forms of fpeech, what are
they elfe
'•
-•
' -r-.n
but moll
etTeflual,
p,„|y telhhcations, and panly
inflammations of all F'«'> '
tholttr.
1

are feveral

imerUcufory difcourfes in the
holy .Scripiu-es, though the peilons fpeaking
are
not alternately mentioned or referred to
Fidde:.
z. Preparatory to decilion

To IxTfcRLo'pE. -v. n. [inter and Icop.'n,
Dutch, to run.] To run between par-

The praClice

of Spain hath been by war, and
by conditions of treaty, to intermeddle with foreign ll.ites, and declare thcmfelves
proteclors general of Caihnlicks.
Bacon
Seeing the king was a fovcreign prince, the
emperor fliould not intermeddle with ordering
his fubjecls, 01 direding the aftairs of his realm.

advantage that one
the other ; to traffick

fhould gain from
without a proper licence ; to foreftali ; to
anticipate ^regularly.

The patron

Hayii'ard.

,

There were no ladies, who difpofed themiclves
to
inlermeddle in bufinefs.

Clarendon.

To intermix ; to mingle. This is perhaps mifprinted for i/itermelled.
Many other adventures .ire intern, ddied as the
;

love of Britomart, and the

1

irtuouliicfs of Belphaebe,

aftnfer.

Interme'ddler. n. /. [ixom itrterimddte.]
One that interpofes officioufly one that
;

thrufts hinifclf into bufinefs to which

he

has no right.
There's hardly a greater pell to government
and
families, than officious tale-bearers, and bufy
/>;/r.
meddlers.

Our

ties anil intercept the

trade, or

and med.

[inter

To interpofe ofiiciuufly.

die.]

To Interme'ddle. 'v. a. [entremejler, Fr.J

Confifting of dialogue.

There

inigiu obitriia jullice, they have
a foreigner forjudge ol St. Marino.

£y,/,_

Interlo'cutory, at/j. [interlocutoire, Fr.
I.

among

fo Imall a people,

fen-

Kr.]

Milton

znd mar.

[inter

Becaufe the alliances and inttrmaniages,

Lat.]
pialogiie; interchange of fpeech.

tences from fide to lide.

z.

All nations have interinnilejge one of another,
either by voyage into loieign parts, or by ftrangers
that come to them.
Baciit.

ftiould

Hid in her vacant intei lunar avt.

Interma'rriage. n.f.

Fr.

'1 he plainclV
and the moll inrelligible rehearfal
of ihe pfalms they favour not, becaufe it is
doi;e
by interlocution, and with a mutual return of

Burnt t.

Jelts

When fhe deferts the night.

interlorulio,
I.

Interkno'w LEDGE, n. f. {ii/ter and iiicnvMutual knowledge.

[interlocution,

luna,

Th; fun to me is dark,
And filent as the moon.

DryJen.

fuperficjal.

and

[inter

We

imitates,

:

adj.

add the two Egypti.in days in every month,
the ;/;rci///^ary and pleniUinary exemptions. Broiun.

to

mitture in pidlures caufes-us to enter

ihc fubjtLl which

)

is invifible.

link.\

join one in another.

Fr.] Internal; inner; not outv.'ard ; not

2.

ter interpofited; interpofition of a flood.
Thofe parts of Afia and America, which are
now disjoined by the interluency of tlie fea, might
have been formerly contiguous.
Hale.

3nd linea.

Deep,
To take tlie one the other, by fome chance,

ledge.^

Dryden,

Interlu'ency. w.y; [interho, Lat. ] Wa-

Correction made by writing between the lines.
Many clergymen write in fo diminutive a man-

To Interli'nk.

Lat.

Tongue.

Dreams are but interludes, which fancy makes

When monarch reafon fleeps, this inimick wakes.
^

To conneft chains one to another;

[iiiteri'.r,

The enemies of Socrates hired Ariftophanes to
him on the (lage, and, by the inlinuations of thole interludes, conveyed a hatred of him
into the people.
Co-uernment 1/ the

perfonate

Swi/i,

Whofe pafTions and whofc plots have broke their

Inte'rioub. a.ij.

When

there is a queen, and ladies of honour attendijTg her, there mull fonietimcs be mal'ques, and
revels, and interludes.
Bactm.

tio».]

To

So fellell foes,

.

To correft by fomething written between
the lines.

1 he mufe invok'd, fit down to write.
Blot out, corrcif, and interline.

la'itr.

join mutually ; to intermarry.

Something played at the intervals of fefti-

:

Mean

To Interjo'i n. -v. a. [inter anAjoiri.]

Diet.
{inter mdlutliis, Lat.]

perlon producing a tallc laftrumcnt, the perfon that
trames it, and the interlining and rafing out of
wo:ds contained in fuchinlhuments. ylylijfe's I'arer.

I

W

Latin-]

[interlucens,

I'nterlude. n.f.

Wirh a wet feal, and a irell) ir.ter ing.
Drydcn.
Three things render
writing lufpcfted
the

a

a heavy interim rtjall fujjport.
By his dear abfeoce.
Shukrfpeare'i OihiHo.
One bird happened to be a foraging lor her you;ig
ones, and in this intrritn comes a torrent that waihcs
away nell, birds, and all.
L'EJiratigt.
lo ibis inttrim my women alkcd what I thought.

adj.

Shining between.

He cancell'd an old will, and forg'd a new ;
Made wealthy at the Imall expence 01 figiiing,

thing coming between ; aft of putting
fomething between.

r.NTERiNf. n. /. [interim, Latin.]
time; intervening time.

To write in alternate lines.

vity ; a farce.

2. Intervention; interpoiition ; actoffome-

Laughing caufeth

Interlu'chnt.

by interlining Latin and Englirti ....
with another, he has got a moderate knowledge of
the Latin tongue, he may then be advanced farther.

natural

hlerjtSihus, to liifcover iheir paifions or imprelTions.
Hale^s Origin r>( Mankind.

[/V/fr and //»(•.]

When,

Clarke's Lat, Gram,
Their wild natural otes, when ihey would cc.
prefs their jiaiBan?, are at the bell but like

INT

N T

I

to be relzed or afftfted with fome pafflon

who,

L' fji.ang-.

all'rs,

m.ijelty

and our

ftock-jobbers,

dnca

her

not

for

to chaftge her feeretary or treajurer,
the reafons that thefe officious inte,
med-

dlers demanded their continuance,
ought nevertj
have been admitted into the leall trull.

!si,.-:ft

1.1

delired to leave off this interloping

admit tlv: knights of the indullry to their

(hare.

Taller,

_

Shall (Irangers, faucy iniermeddlcrs fay.

Thus tar, and thus, are you allow 'd to punifli >
A. I'hilHf,.
,
1 N T e R M I'd I ACY.n./. [from intermedinte.]
,

I.NTERLo'pER. n. f. {Uoxti interlope.']

One

who runs into buiincfs to which he has

Interpofition ;

no right.

thoriied word.

The [wallow was a fly-citcher, and was no moie
an inlertop,r upon rhe Ipidei's light, than the ipidir
was upon (lie fwallow 'i.
LEJIiangt

In birds the auditory nerve is affctaed by only
the inlermediaci of the columella.
Verham

Interme'bial.

intervention.

adj.

[inter

An unau-

and

me dins,
at.i

N T

I

Interrening ;

Lat.]

tervciiienr.

The love of God mates a man temperate in the
midft of fcifts, and is aftive enough without any
Taylor.
imtrnttJial iff niv.i.
A gardener frejiarts the ground, ani in all the
Evelyn.
Intermedial fpaces he is careful to dxfi it.
,

lNTERME'DlATE.(7(»y. [intermedial, ^i. inter
and medins, Lat.] Iniervening; interpofed holding the middle place or de-

change \ for that that hath been intermitted, is after
Bacon.
a fort new.
The water afcends gently, and by inlermijpons
Wilkins.
but it falls ccniinuatcly, and with force.

The peafants work on, in the holieft part of the
Locke.
day, without intermiffion.

Arbuihn^i.

ture, as fat and phlegm.
Thofe general natures,

which (land between the

nearell and moft remote, are called intermediate.
H'atlt.

Inter me'diately. ad-v. [from
By way of intervention.
diate.l
yo Interme'll. v. a.

To mix

;

interme-

Fr.]

\entremejler,

Not ih ufe.

to mingle.

By occafion hereof many other adventures are
Inlermeiled, bnt rather as accidents tlun intend.
%"/"••

ments.

Inte'rment.
inter.'\

h. /.

irom

es.

[interment,

Burial; fepulchre.

Intermigra'tion.

humour ; and all arifing from the climate, though
the continent be but one, as

to

point of accefs,

mutual intercourfc, andpoflibilityof/wreTOT/grar/D/M.
Halc'l Origin of Mar.ltind.

Inte'rminABLE. adj.

[interminable, Fr. in

and termino, Lat.]
no boundary.

Immenfe j admitting

As if they would confine th' interminable.

him to his own prefcript. Milton's Agonijles.

InTe'rminaTE. adj. [interminate, Fr. interUnbounded; unlimited.
miiiatus, Lat.]
Within a tliicket I repos'd ; when round
I ruffi'd up fall'n leaves in heaps, and found,
Lit fall from heav'n, a deep interminate.

IntERMIXa'tION. n.f. [intermination, tr.
Menace

;

threat.

inlernjnations of the

Gofpel,

fo InteRMi'ngI-E. v. a. [itiler-Awii mingle-l
;

The fpace between the paroxyfms ot a
fever, or any fits of pain ; reft ; paufe of

to mix ; to put fome things

amongft others.
The church in her liturgies hath intermingled
with readings out of the New Ttftament, leflbns
taken out of the law and prophets.
His church he comparjth unio a
tares, manifeftly known and feen by
grow intermingled with good corn.

juftitiums imaginable in profeflions, whofc fubjecl
of muis under no intermiffive but eonltant way
tation, this feafon is commonly termed the phyficians

To INTERMI'T. -v. a. [intermitto, Latin.]
'1 o forbear any
thing for a time ; to in-

Run to your houfes, fall upon your knees
Pray to the gods, to intennit the plague
That needs mull light on this ingratitude. Shakcfp.
His milled, laftivious fon
Edward the Second, intermitted fo
Daniel's Civil War.
The courfe of glory.
The ferting on foot fome of thole arts that were
once well known, would be but the reviving of thofe
arts which were long before pracfifed, though ittur'
H.de.
milled zr\A interrupted by war.
Certain Indians, when a horfc is running in his
full career, leap down, gather any thing from the
ground, and immediately leap up again, the horfe

but if we
armSf and intermit our guard, wc may be furpi ifed.

I.

Ceffation
diate flop.

for

a

to lay

To Intermi't. "j.
tween the

adj.

by our

Ufcd of

This never to re\-eal, fior to torfake

llariey,

fumptions.

ToIi^TERMix. 'v.a.[interanAmix.^ To
mingle to join j to put fome things
;

among others.
pcrfuafions

intermixed

flic

with tears, af-

Hayw.

Reveal

The midland towns are moft flourilhing, which
(hews that her riches are intern and domeflick,
Uewel,

INTE'RNAL. adj. [intermit, Lat.]
Inward; not externa).

I.

That ye (hall be as gods, fince I as man.
Internal man, is but proportion meet.
Milton.
Milt.
j felf, my confcicncc, and internal peace.
Bad conies of letting our hearts upon the (liape,
colour, and external beauty of things, without regard to the internal excellence and virtue of them.
L' EJirange.
If

we think moft men's aifliocs to be

terpreters of their thoughts, they have

not depending on external

z. Intrinfick ;

accidents; real.

Wc arc to provide things honeft ; to conlider not
only the internal rttXn\iAz of our a<5tions in the light
ol God, but whether they will be Ircpfrom all mark
or ful'picionof evil.
Rogers,
Lnte'rn ALLY. adnj. [iiora internal.
Inwardly.
Mentally ; intelleftually.

1.

2.

Wc aie fymbolically in the facrament, and bjr
faith

and the (pint of God internally united to
Taylor.

Chrirt.

Inter ne'cine. adj.

to

[internccinus , Latin.]

Endeavouring mutual deftruttion.
Th' Egyptians worihip'd dogs, and for
Their faith made internecine war.
HnJibras,
ternecio,

[internecion, Fr.

n. J.

Latin.]

Mutual

m^fl'acre; flaughter.

That

natural propenfion of felf-love, and natural

into warsaiid internecions.

Internuncio,

n. J.

Hale's Origin ef Monk.
[intemuncius, Lat.

j

Meflenger between two parties.
InteRPEI, L a'tION. »._/. [inierpellation, Fr.
interfellatio, Lat.]
A fuminons ; a call
upon.
In all cxtraifis judicial onecitalion, monition, or
extrajudicial interpellation it fufficient.

ittterpolo,
ATIlr.

pertbrm the part of a jud hifto-

Lat. J

To foift any thing into a place to which

1.

Dr^den.

not belong.
The Athenians were put in poirdTion of Salam'S

To be mingled to-

by another law, which was cued by Solon, or, as
fame think, ixitrpeilated^y him for that puipolr.

any thing ot the poet.

it does

gether.

in-

Intermi'xture.
interme1 .

Ayliffe.

To INTL'KPOLATE, 'v. a. [tnlerpt^ler , Fr.

my royal mailer, without intermixing with
«.

in-

deftruclion

principle of lelf-preferraiion, will neielTarily break out

In yonder fpring of rofes, intermixed

doubt not

in-

Lccke.

:

With myrtle, find what lorcdrcls 'till noon,

the

no (uch /«.

ternal veneration of good rules.

what (hall come in future days,

inurmix
My cov'nant in the woman's feed ixnew'd. Milton.

it

Daniel's Civil ffar.

Inte'rn. adj. [interne, Fr. inttrnus, Lat.
Inward ; inteftine; not foreign.

Fr.

[intermittent,

Next to thofe durable pains, ftiort intermittent or
fwift recurrent pains do precipitate patients into con-

to

Inter before <««•

A fulcmn oath religioufly they lake,

Coming by fits.

intermittens, Latin.]

I

interchanged.

Interne'cion.

Intermi'ttent.

rian

;

By inlermuiual vows protefting there.

To grow mild be-

n.

or paroxyfms.

fits

As 1 lhall tliee enlighten

[inlermij/ion, Fr.

time; paufe ;

or perfuaded

arc remifs,

To Adam

Latin.]

Mutual

Milton.

Wc are tutnilhed with an armour from Heaven,

To Intermi'x, c.
«./.

IVilkijis.

not inierniiitinghiscoaTie.
Speech iniermittedt thus began.

Her

there

may be fame fluid, )et it is fo thin and fubtilc, that
it is as much as nothing.
Locie.
ll>TEK\i'uKAL. adj. [inter, mum/it,maruj,
Lat.] Lying between walls.
AinjiMrih.
Inmermu'tuai,, arij. [inter and mutual.']

M

If nature (hould intermit her courfe, and leave
altogether, though it were but for a-while, the obHooker.
fcrvation of her own laws.

To Intermi'ncle. f. n. To be mixed or

termijjio,

Bro-wn's Fa/gar Erruurs.

vacation.

1*11 intermingle every thing he

Intermi'ssion.

called intermandane (facti i in which though

So good a caufe.

1 reduced Ireland, after fo rnnny inlermijivev/in,
Tears.
to a perfcd palTive obedience, tlmvel' s Eng.
As though there were any feriaiion in n.iture, cr

Hooker.

incorporated.

Lat.] Subfifting between worlds, or between orb and orb.
The vaft diftances between thefe great bodies are

ing by fits ; not continual.

where
men, do

does
Shakefpeare's Othello.
Here failing Ihips delightthe wand'ring'eycs;
Pope.
There trees and inlermingUd temples rife.

Intermu'ndane. adj. [inter ani. mundus,

Milton.

Reft or intcrmij/ion none I find.

firming, that Ihe would depart Irom him.

With CalTio's fuit.

In this height of impiety there wanted not an
intermixture of levity and folly. Bacon's Henry VI.

iNTfRMi'ssiVE. adj. [ from intermit. 1 Com-

Hoaier.

My lord Ihall never rell

Something additional mingled in a mafs.

2,

tual is improper.

field,
all

ciples, or

forrow.

fevers.

thofe terrors of the Lord, as go;ui!, may drive thofe
biutilb creatures who will not b^atlrailed.
Decay of Piety.

To mingle

themfclves a kind of grace-like newnefs. Ben Jon/on.

4.

R'.gcrs.

Chafm. Odyff.
jntermina, Lat.]
The threats and

intermitted.
J. State of being
Words borrowed of antiquity, have the authority
of years, and out of .their intermi/Jion do win to

terrupt.
[intermigration,

». /.

Fr. /»/frand migro, Lat.] Aft of removing
from one place to another, fo as that of
two parties removing, each takes the place
of the other.
Men have a ftrange variety in colour, ftature, and

And tie

Cut (hort all intermijfton : fiont to front,
Bring thou this fiend of Scotland and myfelf. Shake/.

mod refrangible rays excite the (horttft

Newton's Oflich.
lours?
An animal confifts of folid and fluid parts, uiiintermediate nalefs one (hould reckon fome of ao

they produce be truly the hypoflaticil prinonly fome intermixtures of the divided
Boyle.
bodies with thofe employed.

ftanccs

B jt gentle heav'n

gree between two extremes.
vibrations for making a fenfalion of a deep violet,
the lead refrangible the largett tor making a fciiiiforts
tion of deep red, and the fcveral intermediate
of rays, vibrations of fcveral in/ermrJiate bigneffis,
coto make fcnfations of the feveral inirrmediatc

The analytical preparations of eolj or mcieury
leave perfoiis much unfatisfied, whether the fub-

intervenient time.

2.

N T

I

Deliver'd letters, fpight of intemijiioii.
Hbakefp. King Lear.
Which prefeiitly they read.
as
1 count iniermijjion almoft the fame thing

;

1>3 not the

N T

I

Came a reeking poft,

lying between ; in-

Pope.

n.f. [inter und mixtura,

2.

To renew

;

to begin again

;

to carry on

Lat.]

with interuiiHions, In thi; fenfe it is not

Mais formed by mingling bodico,

in ufe.
Thi»

N T

I

that motion ot the firit moveable, partly intcrpoi^lfj and interrupted.
Halt:,

That

hath rieccflarily a concomitant
iaterfolaird motions ; namely, the
pulfes of the heait, and the fuccellive motions of re-

Imerpofitim, as a Summer's cloud.

of

French

Hate.

Ixterpola'tion. ff. /.
from interpolate.

;

a.

-v.

[iiitfipdat'cn.Yv.

iuterpretor,

Lat.]

Milton.

1 o explain ;

pound.

have changed the fitualion of fomc of the Latin
verfcs, and made fomc irterpoiati&ns.
Cranrvfell to Pope,

Dne, but painted thus,
Would be interpreted a thing perplex'd
Beyond felf-explication.
Shakejp. Cymleline.
You (hould be women.

IjjteRPOLa'tor.

[Latin; iulerpola-

n. /.

That you are fo.

palTages.

fame Daniel.

may

be emblemed by

Capable of being expounded or deci-

civfted gliibes, whofc influential em'lTions are inter-

phered.

'V.

a.

interpofer,

;

to make intervenif nt.

Some weeks the king did honourably ititerpofe,
both to give fpace to his brother's intcrceffion, and
to (how that he had a conflicl with himfcll what he
Ihould do.
Bacoi.
2. 'lo

thruft

in

ruption, or inconvenience.

If

it

plunfed.
7"!?

dictions,

and the marks by which the Meffiah
would be dilcovered ; and how the
Jewifh dot^ors,
who fuccf cded him, deviated from the interpretations

Interpo'se. v. tt.

To mediate to aft Ix-tween two parties.
2. To put in by way of interruption.
1.

oftlieirtoretathers.

;

But,

inierp',//!

Eleutl.crius,

this objeflion

We

be made indeed almoll againit any hypotlielis.

iu

BojUt

-

INTERPRETATIVE,

IxTERPo'sER. »./ \{fotRiiilerpofe.']
I. One that comes between others.
I

oill

,

An intervenient agent

3.

;

wark agaiiitt

.

Lat from interpofe.\
niervenient agency.

I.

I

z.

Mediation ; agency between parties.
The town and abtwy would have come to an open

INTERPRETATIVELT. ad-v. [from

J.

common protedlors.

jiddiJt.M.

Intervention; ftate of being placed be-

tween two.
The nights are fo cold, fre(h, and equal, byreafon
of the intire iniirLi/ition of the earih, ai I know
of
so other part of the world of better or e^ual temper.

Sl» (it? on

J

mote that (h«

is

globe that ftands in water, to demilUeft of a tew world, feparau

as.

adj. {interrogati/,
interrogati'vui, Lat.] Denoting a

exprefled in a queftionary form of words.
in

expoCtor;

II

undcrftood by interpreters,

both

Hebicw and

We think moft men's adion! to be the inter,
frtters of their thoughts,

Locke.

[from interro.

He with no m^re civility began in captious manner to put interrogaiories unto him.
Sidney.
Nor time, nor place.
Will ferve long intirrogatories.

Shakefp. Cymbeline.

What earthly name to imerrogatoriei
Can talk the free breath of a facied king >
."ihai.
The examination was fummcd up with one queftion.
Whether he was prepared for death? The
boy was (righted out of his wits by the
laft dreadful

tmerrcgaiory.

Interro'catorv,

Not ours, or not allow'd : what worft, as oft.
Hilling a groHer (juality, is cry'd up
tor our belt aO.
Shakefp. Henry VI II.
In the beginning the earth Wds without
form
and void ; a fluid, dark, confufed mafs, and fo
it

ad-v.

A queftion ;..in enquiry.

pounder.
By lick interpreters, or weak ones, is

.

In form of a queftion.

An alkcr of queftions.

ex-

W hat we oft do beft,

who i what ?

.'

.>

Interro'cator-k. »,/. [interrogatoire, Fr.]

inter-

an

A pronoun ufed

as,

Interroca'tor. v.f. [from intemgaff.]

Lat.]

an

whether
T e R ro'g a t I V e l y

gatite,]

As may be collefted by inter-

An explainer;

n. /.

afking queftions :

which

Inte'rpreter. «./. [inierprele, Yt. interpret,

Fr.
queftion ;

Interro'cative.

fpeaks to liim in this manner: I have now
placed
thee in a well-funii(hed world. Ray on the
Creation

I.

Does Job ferve God for nought ?

Interro'gative.

pretation.
By this provifion tb< Almighty inlerprelatitely

rupture, had it not been timely prevented by the
in.
ter]n,Jii,rjn 01 ilicir

Hummond.

,

pretative.]

There never was a time when the interpijiiiox
of ih= magiflrjie was more iiecelTary to fecure the
l.onour of religion.
Ailirbury.
Though wartlike fuccelTes carry in ijifm oden the
evidences of
divine imerp^itioH, jet are ihcy no
fure marks of the divine (avwir.
Aiieihury.

bulhcrctitks, the rejcfling their additions

'•"''•"•

ierp'filio,

A note that marks a queftion; thus?

3.

J .V

may juftly be deemed an interpretative fiding wiih

a mediator.

iNTkRPOsi'noN. r..J. [iiiterpojitioa, Fr. iii-

inanimate ; by beautiful digrelTlons, but thole Ihort.
Pope.

{{(Otti interpret,]

Coi'leftcd by interpretation.

No bed (hall e'er be guiliy of my Itay;
Shakefpiare.

Government of the Tongue.
This variety is obtained by interrogations 10 things

mercy.
Bacon.

Though the creed apoftolick were fuflficient,
yet
when the church hath erefled th.it additional

make halle ; but, 'till I come again,

kiu relt be iaierpi/tr 'twixt us twain.

adj,

upoa

them,

Addifon.

befeech ihce to profper this great (ign,
and to
give us the interpretation and u(c of it

an enquiry.

;

.Shall I count them pure with
the wicked
balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights?

I be power of explaining.

3.

may

A quelHon put
How

Hooker,
pre-

Lat.]

demurely foever fuch men may pretend ti»
fandhty, that interrogation of God pielTes
hard

the primitive Chriftians knew how the
Jews,
thefe

{iiiterrogatioH.Yt.

The aft of queftioning.

z.

it

interpreted

Hammond,

interrogatio,
1.

Shakejp.

._..

H^oodtvard.

Bacon's Henry Vll,

.

Sbnt^e/p. Coriolanut.

who preceded our Saviour,

By his inttruaions touching the queen of N.ip!es,
fecmclh he could interrogate touching beauty.

His proof will be retorted by interrogating. Shall
the adulterer and the drunkard inherit
the ttingdonj

be obfcure or uncertain what they
meant,
I hope, coiiftraincih no man,
which (landeth doubtful of their minds, to lean to
the hardeft
and woilt inteipritation that their words
can carry.

The common father of mankind feafonably inlerpofeJ his hand, and refcued miferable man out of
the grofs Itupidiiy and rcafiniliry whercinto he was

Lat.

;

queftions.

chanty,

To offer as a fuccour or relief.

2'

{interrogo,

To examine to queftion.
To Interrogate. 1; «. To alk; to put
interrogcr,Yx.]

pofuion.

Human frailty will too olten interpofi iifelf anong pcrfons o( the holiell funftionStvift.

inter._

Bacon's tienry Vfl,

°f^°i^

Ihe fenfe given by an interpreter j ex-

2.

What watchful cares do intrrpufe themfelves
Bctwiit your eyes and night ?
Shalttfp,
Death ready lUnds to inierpjje his dart.
Milicti.

done in this /»Siuift,

a.

-v,

Interroga'tion. ft./.

Look how we can, or fad or merrily,
Interpretathn will mifquoie our looks.

as an obftruftion, inter-

it

[i/iterre^ne, Fr.

or fufpenfion of title.

This is a poor epitome of jour's.

Which, by ih' interpretation of full time.

May (hew like all yourfelf.

n. f.

To Inte'rrogate.

N T E R p R E T A 't I o N . »./. [inteipretntion, Fr.
interpreiatio, Lat. from interpret.
]
1. The aft of interpreting: explanation.

Fr.]

To place between

in order to have

regnum, Latin.] Vacancy of the throne.
The king knew there could not be anv inierreign

I

1 .

Covitey,

I

terregnum or fulpenlion of title.

Interre'icn.

No man's face is aflionable: thefe fingularities
are inlrrpretalle from more innocent caufes. Collier.

{inter^ono, Lat.

:

He would (hew the (]ucen my memorial with the
nrft opportunity,

I

let me
MUim's Far.idt/e LoJI
adj.
[from interpret.]

Interpret (or Wm.

cepted by the interpufal of the benighting clement.
Gtanx'ilU' i Scepjis.

7i INTERPO'.-E.

The interregnum of my breaft
Blefi me from fuch an anarchy

Dan. 1. 11.

Inte'rpretabi,e.
fouls

Next enfu'd a vacancy,
Thoufand Horfe pa(rions then polTcff'd

Hear his fighs, thou mute
Uii(kilful with what words to pray,

Intervention.

Our overfhadowed

which a throne is vacant between the
death of a prince and acceflion of another.
in

Sbakefp. Macbeth.

An excellent fpirit, knowledge, and underftanding,
interpreting of dreams, and (hewing of hard fentences, and dilfolving of doubts, were found in the

The itnerpofal of my lord of Canterbury's command for the publication of this meaa dtfcourfe,
may feem to take away my choice.
Soutib.

Stvift,

[imerpunaion.
Pointing between

INTERRE'GNUM. «./. [Lat.] The time

Gen. xli. 8.

fons.

hardly »e under,

/

«.

Fr. interpungo, Latin.]

Ph.iraoh told them his dreams; but there was
none that could interpret them unto him.

You or your interpolator ought to have conGdered.
Swfi.
In'Terpo'sal. It./, [from iaier/io/e.']
1. Interpofition ; agency between two per-

2.

Inter pu'nction.

And jet your bearus forbid me to interpret

One that foifts in counterfeit

Fr.]

teur,

liders that in an age or two he (hall

(tood without an interpreter.

words or fentences.

into the oiiginal matter.
I

Nor word for word be careful to transfer,
With ihe fame faith as an interpreter.
Skerliirnt,
How fnall any man, who liaih a genius for hiftory,
undertake fuch a work with fpirit, when he con-

[interpreter,

to tranflate; to decipher; to give a folution to ; to clear by expofuion ; to ex-

Something added or put

"[

INIE'RPRET.

To

N T

A tran-flator.

.

Any thing interpofed.
A (heller, and a kind of (hading cool

4.

individual

fpiration.

I

from that which the Romans had before comtuercd
by the imtrprfuion of the fea.
Addifon.

iaclies tliemftlves

feenis to be partly continued and unintermittcd, as

fucceflion

N T

I

This motion of the heavenly

Addifon.
adj.

Containing

a
queftion; exprefting a queftion; as, an
interrogatory /f «/«/(«•.
Tfl I N T e r R u p t. i;. a. {interrompre,
Fr. ;«terrupttis,
I.

Lat.]

To hinder the procefs of any thing bybreaking in upon it.

Rage doth rend
Like Interrupted waters, and o'eibear

What they ate ufed lo bear.

Sbakefp,

•

N T

I

C/aienJt^n.

charge.

This motion of the htavenly bodies feems partly

'

nninterruptci), as that of tlie firft, moveable, interpo-

'

"

Hale.

lated and ixierrufttj.

before

heard the caufe

haft

tlioii

Ecclrf. «i. 8.

To divide; tofeparatc; to refdnd from
continuity.

Interru'pt.

Intekse'htioN.

[from inttriNTERRu'pTEDiy. ad'v.
Tufted.] Not in continuity ; not without
ftoppages.

Intbrrup'ter. ». /. [from i>iterrupt.'\
He who interrupts.
Imterru'ption. n, /, [mterru/tion, ¥t.
inlerruftio, Latin.]

1.

2.

The poflibility of a body's moving into a void

2. Intervention ; interpofition.
You are to touch the one as fcon as ysu have given

It is the editor's intereft to infert what the author's
judgment had rcjefled ; and care is taken to inter-

Intervening between the ftars.
hath fo much afhnity with

Lat.]

The

intcrjirllar (ky

the ftar, that there is a rotation of that as well as of
Bacon.
the ftar.

1'nterstice.
Sbak.
terfiice,

a rub only in the beginning; when cuftom has
made it familiar, it will be difpatched without
refting or inttrrufiion \a the courfe of our rtading.
JLeck^.

Amidft the inimuftiuit of his forrow, lecing
hit penitent overwhelmed with gtief, he was only
AdJifcn.
able to bid her be comforted.

Intirsca'pular.

1.

To Interscribe. V. a.
Lat.]

'I'o write

Intersf'cant.

[inter

[inter/ecaas,

Diii.
Latin.]

Dividing any thing into parts.

7-»INlERSE'CT.

To cut

;

a.

Lat.]
to divide each fther mutually.
-v.

[iaterfeco,

Perfeft and viviparous quadrupeds fo ftand in their
liofition of pronencfs, that 'the oppofite joints of
neighbour legs confilt in the fame plane ; and a line

defcending from their navel inlerJtSs at right angles
Brovjn.
the axis of the earth.
Excited by a vigorous loadftone, the needle will
fomewhat deprefs its animated' extreme, and wUnvin.
ItrffO the horizontal circumference.

y* Jnterse'i-t.

11.

a.

To meet and crofs

The fagittal future ufually begins at that point
where iheic Imes inttrftH.

Interse'ction.
from inttrj(a.'\

n. f.

IViftaan't Suretry.
[ittter/edio,

Lat.

««/frT;«//7«/, French.]

each other.
They did fpout over interchangeably from fide to
Sde in forms of arches, without any /n;rr/><!7iV« or
meeting aloft, btuufe (he pipes were not oppoliie.

Jntercedent; inter-

pofed ; paffing between.
There be inter-ver.ient in the rife of eight, in tones>
Baet>n.
two bemolls or half notes.

Many arts

were ufed

to difcufs

there

is

new affe^ion :

omit things inconveyed to Mr. Villiers an

which notwithftanding, for

all

I

The fun Ihining through a large prifm upon a

ftrvjnt.

which compofe the

Interve'ntion.

Intbrsti'tial.

adj.

[from

Agency between antccetlents and confe-

2.

cutives.
In the difpenfation of God's mercies to the
world, fume things he does by himfclf, others by
the intervention of natural means, and by the mediation of fuch inftruments as he has appointed.
L* EJlrange.

Parergon.

inteijiice.'\

Containing interftices.
In oiled papers, the inlcrjlitial divifion being
afluatcd by the acccflion of oil, becometh more

3. -Interpoiitiou;

[interfexo, Latin]
of things mingled or wo-

Interte'xture. fi./.
Diverfification

ven one among another.
i'n e. J 1: a. [inter and ttuine,
-/o I N T E RT
or /to//?.] To unite
by twitting one in another.
Under fome concourfc of (hades,
Whofe branching arms thick inltrtviin'd might

-To Intertwi'st.

Milton.

I'nteRVaL. «./.

[intervalle,

Fr. interiial-

lum, Lat.]

Space between places; inferftice ; vacuity; fpace unoccupied; void place;
vacancy ; vacant fpace.
With any obftatle let all the light be now t^oppcd

whkb pallet itiiough any one inlfniat oi the teeth.

Holder,

ear.

7» Interve'rt. v. a,
1.

[intervertOj'Li.l.'}

To turn to another courfe.
The duke ieiterverted the bargain, and gave the

5

From dews and damps of night his fhelier'd head.

the ftate of being intcr-

pofed.
Sound is Ihut out by the /Wfrt»/i/»» of that lax
membrane, and not fufTered to pafs into the inward

Brown.

tranfparent.

Fr»

God will judge the world in righteoufncfs by die
intervention of the man Chrill Jefus, who is the
Saviour as well as the judge of the wtf 'd
Alle'ilnil

will point

Ayl'ff'i'i

[intervention,

Let us deciJe our quarrels at home, without the
Tttnf.'e.
intrrvemim of any foreign power.

out the inlerjiicet of tir« which
ought to be between one citation and another.
1

iyolton.

b. /.

Agency between perfons.

[.

Arbuthnot

Time between one afl and another,

fwom his

interventio, Latin.]

as to leave

fibres, fo

before.

1.

H'otlon.

they fivayed.

The force of the fluid will feparate the fmalleft

Point where lines crofs

A

iNTERVb'wiENT. adj. [interveniens , Latin;

tervenler.l,

placed

verb.]

the

renccs, which might eaiily happen in fuch an intervene of grandees, both vehement oi the parts which

Fr.J

(hield

each other.

[from

/.

iniimation of the king's pleafure to be

particles

2.

n.

Oppofition, or perhaps interview.
word out of ufc.
They had fome (harper and fome milder diffe-

vacant interjlicei in thofe places where they cohered

Dia.
and joiic,

between.

adj.

Interve'ne.

NnvTon.

[inter 2in& fciiidc,

To cut off by interruption.

Latin.]

Eftecm the danger of an aAion, and the pofiiUof mifcarriage, and every crofs accident that
can inte>^e»e, to be either a mercy on God's pirt»
Taylor.
or a fault oa ours.
lities

[interjiitium, Lat. in-

immediately behind xiic prifm, his
light, which palled through the interjiiccs of the
teeth, fell upon a while paper; the breadths of the
teeth were equal to their interjiicei, and feven
teeth together with their intttjlicet took up an inch.

Lat.] Placed between the (houlders.

To IntersCi'nd. ii. a.

». /.

near,
AMilttn.

Space between one thing and another.
comb

[iitttranA/capula,

adj.

[ftom inter/perje.'\

For want of the interfperjion of now and then
fValts on tie Mind.
an clegiack or a lyrick ode.
Inrerste'llar. adj. [inter and jlella,

Hindrance; flop; let; obftruAion.

4. Intermiflion.
This way of thinking on what we read, will be

n. /.

The aft of fcattering here and there.

if la

To crofs unexpeftedly.

3.

ffeife thefe additions, fo that fcarce any book can
be bought without purchafiiig fomethiog unworthy
Swjjt.
of the author.

a ftroke of the pencil to the other, left the iniirruf lion of time caufe you to lofe the idea of one
Dtyden'3 Dufrrjnoy.
part.

Bloody England into England gone,
O'erbearing inttrruftioH, fpite of France.

While fo near each other thus all day
Oiu- talk we chufc, what wonder,
I.ooks intervene, and fmiles >

I^ckt.

always remain clear.

Lat.

To come between things or perfons.
To make intervals.

fpace beyond the ulmoft bounds of body, as well as
into a void fpace iVrrr/jKni/crf amongft bodies, will

Interspe'rsiok.

breach of continuity.

Places fevered from the continent by the inter,
HaU't Origin of Mankind.
ruf tion of the fea.

God the father, ruler of all,

things

[infer-veitio,

n.

intervenir, Fr.]

Hammond.
To Interspe'rse. 1;. a. [interfperfus, Lat.]
To fcatter here and there among other

The incident light that meets with a groflVr liquor, will have its beams either rcfradtd or imbibed, or elfe reflefled more or Icfs Inttmifitdly
than lliey would be, if the body had been unBoyU on Co/ours.
moiHencd.

Alltriurj.

offices of devotion.

To Interve'ne. v,

the apoftle'sold form,

affignable

3. Remiffion of a delirium or diftempcr.
Though he had a long illnefs, confiJcring the
great heat with which it raged, yet his inrervj/i »(
fenfe being few and ftiort, lelt but little room for the

which contained an acknowledgement of the unity.

Milicn.

two

The century and half following was a very bujy
period, the inicrvalt between every war being (»
Su'ifi.
(hort.

Thefe two inttrferilmi were clear explications of

Tranfporis our adverfary, wb*m no bounds,
Nor yet the main abyfs wide inimuft.

3.

inlerfert.']

ticiulsn'i Ofticlts.

between

paffing

points.

Lat.]

any thing.

Can hold ?

Time

An infertion, or thing jnfertcd between

Seed thou what rage

1. Interpofition ;

[from

n. /.

the

coloured.

Z.

Bfnllcy.

[interftro,

a.

If I may imirjirt a {hort fpeculation, ; he depth
of the fea is delcemined in Phny to be fifteen furBrerru/ood.
longs.

Containing a chafm.

adj.

or.

N T

range of colours which comes from
thence may be taken away, and vou will fee the
of
the
reft of the ranges to be expanded into
light
the place of the range uken awav, and there to be
that

fo

To put in between other things.

;

neither i/iierrufi men in the midtt of their talk.

3.

Athenian, was placed in the very inlerftCHon which
is now elongated, and moved eallward twenty-eight
Sro-wn.
degrees.
Ships would move in one and the fame furface ;
they
when
encounter,
muft
needs
and confequently
either advance towards one another in direft lines,

TblNTKRSE'Rl".

terpofition.

Anfwer not

I

The fiift ftar of Aries, in the linae of Melon the

or meet in the intcrfe£lion of crofs ones.

To hinder one from proceeding by in

2.

N T

I

He might fecurely enough have engapd his body
fo horfe agiinft iheir whole inconfiderjblc »rmy,
there being neither tree nor bu(h to intenupl his

poor widow of £rpenius for the books,
pounds.
2.

five

hundred
h'oiton.

To turn to another ufe.

Intervi'ew. ». y; [intreviie, French.]
Mutual fight ; fight of each other. It is
commonly ufed tor a formal, appointedj
or important meeting or conference.
The day will come, when the paflions of former
enmity being allayed, we ftiall with ten times redoubled tokens of reconciled love, Ihew ourfclves each
towards other the fame, which Jofeph and the brethren ol Jofeph were, at the time of ihcir interview
Hooker.
in Egypt.

INT

I

Of Adam.
a.

11.

\intervol'vo,\AX.J\

ginations to molell us.

!

Duff a.

Inttjline war no more our paflions wage,
Ev'n giddy factions hear away their lage.

Contained in the body.

2.

Intrfiinc ftone, and ulcer, cholick pangs.

And moon-ftruck madnefs.

which yonder ftarry fphere,

Loft, by difufe,

Eccentrick, intervel-u'd, yet regular.

A fuddcH alteration feels,
Incrcas'd by new intejiiife wheels.

Mlhon.

7a Interweave, 'v. a. preter. inter'u.'tnje

3.

or
I'o
mix one with another in a regular texture; to intermingle.
Then laid him down
Under the hofpitable covert nigh
part,

paff,

interiuove,

internxxirjen ,

intermjeaved.

\_ititer

and

•weanjf.^

Milton.
I fat

me down to watch upon a banlc

With ivy canopied, and interwove
With flaunting honeyfuckle.
None
Can fay hen nature ends, and art begins.

Intestable,

adj.

Arbutbnot on Diet.

«.

/

Why (hould calamity be full of words ?

[from

inthrall.]

flavery.
Mofes and Aaron, fcnt from God to claim
His people from intbrulmtnif they return
With glory and fpoil back to their promis'd land.

raffc

to

\^in

3x\i throne.]

To

royalty; to feat on a throne:

One, chief, in gracious dignity intbren'd.
Thom/on't Summer.

Shines o'er the reft.

I'ntimacy.

n. /.

[itom intimate.]

Clofe

familiarity.

power to confine our friendlhips and
itiiimacits to men of virtue.
Rogcn.
It

is

in our

I'NTIMATE. «<)>. ['«/''wa</o,Spanifli;

in.

timtn, Latin.]

'

to be alfimilatcd.

Arbutbnot.
-~

,

Nearly; infeparably.

Quality, as it regards the mind, has its

rife

fioin

and is ihat which is
elfential to us, and more intimately united with

ore

knowledge and

virtue,

That what I mentiou'd was of God, I knew
From inrim-ite impulfe.
Milton'i Agomftn.
Fear being

3.

intimate to our natures, it is the
ftrongeft bond of laws.
THIoi/qh.
2.

Familiarly;

with clofe friendHiip.

Intima'tion. n.f.

{intimation, Fr. from
Hint; obfcure or indireifl de-

intimate.]

claration or direftion.
Let him (triflly obferve the firft. lUrrings and
intimations; the firft hints and whifpers of good and
evil that pafs in his heart.

South,

Of thole that are enly probable we have fome
reafonable intimations; but not a demonftiative
'"'^'"'y.
ll-oodward.
Befides the more folid parts of learning, there
are leveral little intimations to be met wilh on me.
''•'Is.

Addi/on.

^

1ntim|,

_

Inward; being within the
mafs; not being external, or on the furadj.

face; internal.

As

Not ufed.

the compofition or diifolution of mixed
which is the chief work of elements, and

to

requires an intime application of the agents,
water
hath the principality and cxccfs over earth.

To Inti'midate. 1/. a
in and timidiis, Lat.]
to daftardize ;

[intimiu'er, French;

To make fearful;

to make cowardly.

At that tribunal ftands the writing tribe.

Which nothing can intimidate or bribe;
Time is the judge.

INTl'RE.

n.f.

{integer,

better written entire,

Lat.

fo

Near; not kept at diftance.
Mofe3 was with him

unto the fame iniirc focieties, that for any prince to
cxercifc the fame of himfelf, and not cither by exprcfs
commiffion immediately and perfonally received irom
God, or elfc by authority derived at 'the firft from
their confcnt upon whole pctfons he impofes laws,
it is no better than mere tyranny.
Hooker.

Inti'rei*ess.

n.f. [from intire; better
Wholenefs ; integrity.
So ftiall all times find mc the fame;

entirevcfi.]

The mouths of llie lafleals are opened by the
inlrjlinal tube, afiefling a ftraight inftead of a fpiral

approach, he was honoured with an intimate and
immcdiaie admilTion.
SoKti.

Who have the pattern wilh yon ftill.

intej]ine.\

«y'i"der.

Arhuthmt.

INTE'STINE. adj. liHteJiin, Fr. inteftinus,
Lat,]
I. Internal; invrard; not external,

Fr.

its derivatives.]
Whole ; undimiuidicd ;
broken.
The lawful power of making laws, to command

in ihe retirements of the
received there his private inftruflions; and
when the multitude were thundered away from any

[intepKal,

entier,

which fee, and all

Mount,

adj.

Young.

Now guilt once harbour'd in the confciousbieaft.
Intimidates the brave, degrades ihe great.
Irene.

Fr. from
Belonging to the guts.

Ihtest'inal,

s.

whole politick focieties of men, bclongcth fo properly

Inmoft; inward; inteftine.
They knew not

r.

Airy fuccceders to inlejiatc mt,
Poor breathing orators of miferies.
Shake/f,
Prefcnt puoilhment purl'ues his maw.
When furfeiied and fwelld, the peacock raw.

3. Familiar; clofely acquainted.
United by this fympathclick bond.

You grow familiar, iniimate, and fond. Rofcommon.
IttTlMATE. n.f. [intimada, Spanilh ; /«liinf,
Irench; {iitimu4,
Latin- J

A

You this inliienefs better may fulfil.
Donne,

I'nto. prep. [/>rand/o.]
1, Noting entrance with regard to place ;
oppofed to out of.
Water introduces /'«/» vegetables the matter it bears
H'oodward's Nat. Hlft.
it.

along wilh

b K »

I

the blood, by mixing it in.
the parts of the fluid to which it is

timjtety with

Digby an Bodies.

commonly enthrone.

attorneys to their client woes.

He bears into the bath ; whence want of breath,
Repletions, apoplex, (>r^<i« death.
Dryden.

Clofely; with intermixture of parts.
Ihe fame acoiiomy is oblervcd in the circula-

bodies,

Servitude ;

To Iiithro'ne. v. a.

Addifon's Cato,

tion of the chyle with

Raleigb.

Prior.

a will.

— Windy

I.

A word now feldom ufed, at

Authors to ihemfclves in all
Both what they judge, and what they chufe ; for fo
I form'd them free, and free they muU remain
Till they mira// themfelves.
Milloii'i Par. Loft.
She foothes, but never can inthrall my mind :
_
Why may not peace and love for once be join'd?

Ayi'_ffe*s ParergoH.

Inte'state, adj. [hteflat, Fr. intrjiattts,
Lat.]
Wanting a will; dying without

iof^,,

Ad.tifon's SfeSdIcr.

INTHRA'LL. 1: a. \in and thrall.'\
To enflave; to fhackle; to reduce to

iNTHRA'tMENT.

their original

ris the divinity that ftirs within us

And intimates eternity to man.

The gut; the bowel: moft com-

iitihrall*d.

Latin.]

Difqualified to make a will,
A pcrfon excommunicated is rendered infamous
and initjlutle both actively and paflivcly.

was derived

I'ntimately. adv. \_hom intimate.]

What though I be intbrall'd, he feems a knight,
And will not any way difhonour me.
Sbak.
The Turk has fought to extinguidi the ancient
memory of thofe people which he has fubjefted and

Donnt.
[inteftabilii,

'

Pope.

Alilion.

The ven'jm of all Itcpdames, gameftet's gaJI,
What tyrants and their fubjedb Interiiijh,

from which

pattern.

z.

To wi(h mutually to each other.
Ail ill fall on that man.

Buyle,
The names of (imple ideas and fubftances, with
the abltraift ideas in the mind, iniimate fome real

lead in profe.

\inUr and •vjijh.'\

by a

that

'Tis Hcav'n ilfelf that points out an hereafter.

fervitude.

Stvift.

a.

us,

read mortal internecine.

The initftines or guts may be inflaiAed by an

To

tells

exiftence,

acrid fubftance taken inwardly.

He fo intertveavn truth with probable fiction,
DryJn.
that he putt a pleating fallacy upoti us.
It appeared a vaft ocean planted with illands,
that were covered with fruits and flowers, and in-

'V.

Suchten

monly without a fingular.

Drydtn.

tervivwH with a thoufand little fliining feas that
ran among them.
Addifon.
Orchard and flower-garden lie ib mixt and inteT~
vjncn with one another, aa to look like a natural
wildemefs.
SjxElator.
1 he Supreme Infinite could not make intelligent
creatures, without implanting in their natures a
moft ardent defirc, intefwoven in the fubdance of
their fpiritual natures, of being reunitEd with him.
Cheync's Pbil. PrincifUi.
felf.
1 do not altogether difapprove the interv^eavirg
teiti of fcripture through the ftyleof yourfermon.

Van

Domeftick, not foreign. I know not
whether the word be properly ufed in
the following example of Shake/f tare:
perhaps for mortal and inleftine ihould be

Fr.]

The proud theatres difclofe the fcene.
Which interwovm Britons fcem to raife,
And (how the triumph which their fhamc difplays.

French;

[intimer,

To hint; to point

not of the filvcr colour of other mercuries, but green.
Sv.!ft.

Inglorious triumphs and dilhonell fears.

Dtnbam.

To Intbrwi'sh.

Alexander

Inte'stine, n.f. [inlcjiinum, Lat. inteftine,

But mii'd like th' elements, and born like twins.
So iftterwfav'd, fo like, fo much the fame ;
Kane, this mere nature, that mere art, can name.

'

with his as did the

Gov. of the Tongue,

way he intimates, may be made a mercury of copper,

And dreadful feries of intejline wars,
Milton.

much correfponded

out indireftly, or not very plainly.

the art to roaft,

Since tl\f mortal and intfjitne jars
'Twixt thy feditious countrymen and us,
It hath in folcmn fynods been decreed,
T' admit no trafiick to our adverfe towns.
Shak.
But God, or Nature, while they thus contend,
To thefe inteftine difcords put an end.
Dryden.
She faw her fons with purple death expire.

Milton.
Ol trees thick inlerivnitn.
At latt
Word* ixtmuovt with fighs found out their way.

to entertain his reafon with a
convetfe, aflign him an iniimate whofe

intelled as

To 1'ntimate. -v. a.
/»//«ari?, low Latin.]

Milton's Far. Left.

Refcmbles neareft ; maaes intricate,

more equal

outward form.

A wooden jack, which had almoll

Of planets, and of fix'd, in all her wheels
Then moft, when molt irregularlhey feem.

Pofc.

one who is trufted with

our thoughts.
The defign was

to diflraiA us, our diftempercd paflions to diforder
us, and a whole fwarm of loofe and floating ima-

To involve one within another,
Myllical dance

familiar friend;

there are our palt fins to wound us, our prefent cares

Miilm'i Ptradlje Lcfi.

To Intervo'lve.

INT

N T

Of thcfe inward and imefline enemies to prayer,

HIj fern were, tbat the htervi'm.- httv/'ixt
England and France might, through their amity.
Breed him fome prejudice.
Sbakffp. Hfrrry \l\l.
Such happy iniervievf^ and fair event
Ot* love, and youth not Ibft, fongs, garlands, flow*rs.
And charming fymphonris, attach'd the heart

Acrid

'

INT

INT

INT

Not

Acfii fubftances, which p>f» into the c»pi«ary j JutO'i. BRANT, aiij. [intoUraHt, Ft.]
contraaion.
tubes, muft irt'uaie ihem mio greater
Artuthnol on Allmttiti. \

I,

of

Noting entrance

«.

one

into

thing

If iron will acquire
bitual ini:linalioci

lo

by mere continuance an ha-

the

liie

more may education, being

it

held,

how much
plight

a conftant

and

inurement, indue* by cullom good habits mto a reaH'olloi,.

fonable creature i

To give life to that which hai yet no heme, :s
to frame a living creature,

and

fafhion the parts,

having fitted them together, loput into them a living

Noting penetration beyond the outfide,
or feme aftion which reaches beyond
To look in/0 leiwri already opened or dropt is held
rope.

an ungenerous aO.

.

Noting inclufion real or figurative.

4.

They have denominated fome herbs folat and fome
luow, and fuch like toys put inle great words.
Bacon.

Noting a new ftate to which any thing

r.

brought by the agency of a caufe.
Compound bodies may be refolved inio other fub-

is

ftances than fuch as they are divided into by

the fire.
Boyle.

A man muft fin himfelf into a love of other mens
fins ; for a bare notion of this black art will not

carry

South.

him fo far.
Sure thou art born to fome peculiar fate,

When
To look them into duty; and command
An awful filence with thy lifted hand.

the mad people rife againit the ftate.

It concerns every

Dryden.

man that would not trifle away

his foul, and fool himfelf /»(o irrecoverable mifery,
with the greateft ferioufnefs to en<]uire into thefe

rUktfon.

matters.

He is not a
-

and too great dtyncfs with another
bodies being limited and
Arbtahno'.
intolerant of excelTes.

Intranqui'llity. «./.

frail

being, that he (hould be tired

human

powers of

ToIn'tomb.

and

[/»

a.

'V.

'I'o

tcmb.']

inclofe in a funeral monument; to bury.
What commandment had the Jews for the ceremony of odours ul'ed about the bodies of the dead,
was
after which cuftom notwiihllanding our I.ord
contented that his own molt precious blood Ihould be
Hooter.
intomb'df
Is't night's predominance or the day's (hame.

That darknefs does the face of earth intcmb f
Sbakefpeare.

And youths inlomi'd before their father's eyes.

«hey naturally fpread ihemfelves inIo lakes, before
Addijon on Italy.
they can find any iflue.
not
It would have been all irretrievably loll, was it
by this mews collefled and brought into one mals.
l^'ood-ward.

Why are thefe pofitions charged upon me as their

D.'df.

thunder.

Intona'tion.

[tHtottatiou, Fr.

». /.

ToInto'ne. t. «. [from
from

from

intonner,

tone;

irttono,

To make a

Fr.]

flow^protrafted noife.
So fwclls each windpipe ;

afs intones to afs

To Into'rt.

ni.

a.

[iiitortuo,

To

Latin.]

twift ; to wreath ; ro wring.

The brain is a congeries of glands, that feparate
the finer parts of the blood, called animal fpirits :
and a gland is nothing but a canal varioudy intoned
Arbuthnot.
and wound up together.
With rev'rent hand the king prefents the gold.
Which round th' intoned horns the gilder roU'd.

intolerable,

adj.

[intokrabilii,

French.]
not to be endured;

Infufferable;

i.

Latin;

not

will never be, our load will be as intoleraile as it was
Tay/or.
unreafonable.
His awful prefence did the crowd furpriie,
eyes;
meet
his
Nor durft the ra(h deflator
Eyes that confefs'd him born for kingly fway,

So fierce,

Some

Dryden.
they flalh'd intolerable day.
men arc quickly weary of one thing: tho

fame ftudy long continued in is as intolerable to
them, as the appearing long in the fame clothes is to
a court lady.
From Param's top th' Almighty rode.
Intolerable day proclaim'J the God.

intoxicatetbs,

and age doth profit rather

Others,

after having done fine

things, yet

them by endeavouring to make them

fpoil

better; and

are fo intoxicated with an earreft dc(:-e of being
above all others, that they fuffer ihemfelves to be
Dryden'i Dufrejr.oy.
deceived.

up to
fpirituous liquors, having difTeient qualities from the
plant; for no fruit taken crude has the intoxicating
Aibuihnot.
quality of wine.

by fermentation are wrought

Lntoxica'tion.

». /. [from

intoxicate.]

Inebriation; ebricty; the aft of making
drunk the ftate of being drunk.
Thai king, being in amity with him, did fo burn
;

in haired towards him, as to drink of the lees and
dregs of Perkins's intoxication, who was every where
elfe

As yet not come to life, which in ilieir feeds
Sbaktfp.
And weak beginnings be intreafured.
To Intrench, v. n. [in and trencher, Fr.]
To invade; to encroach to cut off part
of what belongs to another; with on.
Little I defire my fceptre Ihould intrench on God's
;

fovereignty,

which is the only king of men's con-

K. Charles.
That crawling infeft, who from mud beg.in,

fciences.

Warm'd by my beams, and kindled into man
Durll he, who docs but for my pleafure live.

!

Dryden.
Intrench on love, my great prerogative.
are not to intrench v^en truth in any conver-

We

falion, but leall of »ll with children.

To Intrench.
1.

Ijicke.

a.

1;.

To break with hollows.

His face
Deepfcais of ihundet had /«/rMr//</, and care
Miiton's Par. Loji.
Sat on his faded check.
fortify with a trench: as, the allies
2.

To

Bacon.

deteaed.

is

The

thus explained:

intoxication which verbal magick brings upon ihe
South.
mind.
Intrac'taBLE. adj. [iutra^aiii'is, Lzlin;

intraitable,

French.]

Ungovernable; violent; ftubborn; ohftinate.

To love them who love 11s is fo natural a pafTion,

Bad beyond fufferance.
Into'lerableness. It. f. [from intolera-

that even the moll intmaatle temper* obey its force.

Rogers.
2,

Unmanageable;

By what means ferpenls, and other noilous anl
more intraitable kinds, as well as the more innocent
and ufeful, got togetlj»r.

fycodviard.

air

rather to exprefs the idea of indivifibility
or invulnerablenefs. and derived intrenchant, from ill privative, and trencher, to

cut;

intrenchant

cutting,

indeed properly

is

»<;/

rather than not to be cut ; but this

is not the only inftance in which HhakeJpeare confounds words of aflive and
paffivefignification.] Not to be divided;

not to be wounded ; indivilible.
As eafy may ft ihou the intrenchant air
With thy keen fword imprefs, as make me bleed.
Si:akefpeart.

Intre'nchment.

n,

J.

[from intrench,]

Fortification with a trench.
adj. [injrejiide, Fr. intrepidus,

Intre'piD.
Lat. ]

Fearlefs ;

daring ; bold ; brave.

Argyle

Calm and Intrepid in the very throat
Of fulphurous war, on Tenicr's dreadful field. Ticinf.

Intrepi'dity.
FeailelTnefs;

furious.

intrenchant

means the air which fuddenly encroaches
and clofcs upon the fpace left by any
body which had paited tluough it,
Hanmer, I believe Shakefpeare intended

Whence can this proceed, but from that btfoiiing

Bretme.

dared.

There is a hillory in all men's lives.
Figuring the nature of the times deceas'd ;
The which obfciv'd, a man may propliefy,
With a near aim, of the main chance o( things

were intrenched in their camp.
Intrenchant. adj. [This word, which
Den bam.
is, 1 believe, found only in Shake/feare,

1.

Into'i.erably. adv. [from iritoUrahU.'\
To a degree beyond endurance.

V. a. [in and trea/ure.]

To lay up as in a treafury.

in the

powers of undcrftanding, than in the virtues ot the
Bacon.
will and affedions.
_
As with new wine intoxicated both,
feel
thjt
they
They fwim in mirth, and fancy
Divinity within them breeding wings,
Milton.
Wherewith to fcom the earth.
My early millrcfs, now my ancient mufe,

Locke.

Quality of a thing not to be en-

Some of the moft experienced chemifts do affirm
quickfilver to be intranfmutable, and therefore call
Ray on the Creation.
it liquor aeternus.

To inebriate; to make drunk.
The more a man drinketh of the world, the more

2.

^/^.]

fubftance.

Lat.]

Vegetables

to be borne ; having any quality in a degree too powerful to be endured.
If we bring into one day's thoughts the evil of
many, certain and uncertain, what will be and what

[In grammar.] A verb intranjitihe is that
which fignifies an aftion, not conceived
as having an effed upon any objeft ; as,
Clarke's Latin Giammar,
curro, I run.
Intransmu'tabl t. adj. [in and tranfmutabk.] Unchangeable to any other

To INTO'XICATE. 'v. a. [in and toxkum,

What part of wild fury was there in the bacchanals
which we have not feeii equall'd, if not exceeded by
Decay of Piety.
fome intoxicated zealots ?

Ihto'lerable.

Intra'nsitive. adj. [intranfiti-vui, Latin.]

Pope.

It is no ways congruous, that God (hould be always frightening men into an .icknowkdgoient of

Bentley.

jadations were ufed for amufement, and allay in

Pope^s Uunciad.

Harmonick twang

it

[in and tranquilUnquietnefs; want of reft.

conftant pains, and to relieve itial intraaijuillity which
makes men impatient of Ijing in their beds. Temple.

or rather

That rtrong Circean liquor ceafe t' infufe.
Wherewith thou did'ft intoxicate my youth.

felf into it.

lity.]

The aft of thundering. Dia. TolNTRE'AStjRE.

intonate.']

that they
fote author; and the reader led into a belief,
were never before maintained by .any perfon of virtue ?
Atterbury.

the truth, who were made to be wrought upon by
Atlerhmy
calm evidence.
A man may whore and drink himlelf into
Aiheifm; but it is impoflible he (hould think him-

Unmanageably ; ftubbornly.

Dryden.

roI'NTONATE. v. a. [i/ttom. Latin.] To

/»/» compliance by the force of afliduous application.

Smalrijge.
In hollow bottoms, if any fountains chance to rife,

table.]

clafs {if difeafes,

Mighty hero«), more majeftick (hades.

the fupcrficies or open part.

iittrae.

Obftinacy f perverfenefs.
Intra'ctably. adv. [from intraitable,]

^/j'-

foul.

J.

[from

». /.

enduring; not able to endure.
Too great moifture aflfcfts human bodies with one
the

another.

Int«a'ctableness.

».

/.

[inlrepidite,

Fr.]

courage; boldnefs.

I could not fuffiiienlly wonder at the intrepidity
of thefe diminulive mortals, who durll venture to
Gulliver.
walk upon my body, withoai titmbiing.

Intre-

N T

I

I

lNraEPi'i>iv. adv. [from htrtpid.^
Icfsly ;

Fcar-

Pofe.

I'ntRICAcy. tt. f. [hom intricate.']

Intimate; clofely familiar.

[intricatut,

'

Intbi'nsecally. ad'u. [hom intrinfecai .]

Much of that we are to fpeak may feem to a num-

1.

ber perhaps tedious^ perhaps obfcure^ dark, and intn.
Hookrr.
Cfile.

A lye

I

Everyone of his pieces is an ingot of gold, intrin-

Within

2.

o

Prior.

In his countenance no open alteration; but the lefs
he (hewed without, the mote it wrought inirinfe-

Alterations of (irnames, have fo intrtcolei, or
rather ol'fcured, the truths of our pedigrees. That it
will be no little hard labour to deduce x^zxn. Camden.

If once bereaved of motion, matter cannot of iifelf
acquire it again j nor till it be tliruft by fome other
body from without, ox intrinfecally moved by an im-

[ffom

n. f.

[from

Not depending

2.

Perplexity ; involution ;

obfcurity.

w^y to lead him out of the maze.

A plot;

a private tranfjflion in

His fame, like gold, the more 'lii tried

The more (hall its intrinfick worth proclaim.

Prior.
Beautiful as a jewel fel in gold, which, though it

adds 'little to intrinfick value, yet improves the luftre,
and aitradls the eyes of the beholder.
Rogers.

Thefe his huge thoughts, and llicfc his vail defires.

his inlrigMei.
love IS dwindled lo intrigue.

Now

And marriage grown a money league.
2. Intricacy; complication

Like rats, oft bite the holy cords in twain.

Szeip.

Too inirinfecate t'unloofe.
Hhakeff. King Lear.
Come, mortal wretch,
With thy Iharp teeth this knot intrinfieale

Little in ufe.

Though this vicinity of ourfclves to ourfelves cannot give us the full profpc£k of all the intr/guet of our
nature, yet we have much more advantage to know
oarfclves, than to know other things without us.
Hale's Origin of Manltind,

3.

Of life at once untye.

complication or perplexity of a
or poem ; artful involution of
feigned tranfatSion.

perfon.
Mathematicians of advanced fpeculations may
have other ways to introduce into their minds ideas of
intinity.
Locke.

the

dle of it, and form that difficulty or intrigue, which
Pope.
makes up the grcateft part of the poem.

[intriguer, Fr.

2.

To bring fomething into^oticc or prac-

from

This vulgar error whofoever is able

to reclaim, he
in'ioduce a new way of cure, prcferviug by
theory as \vell as pr.icltce. Hrotrn' s Vulgur Errours.
An author who ihould inttcdute a f^uri of words
upon the lla^e, would meet with fmall apptaufe.
(hall

;

One who bulies himfelf in private tranfa^iions
one who forms plots
one who piirfues women.
trigue.]

Braorrte.

;

defire tliat

3.

iniriguert will not make a pimp, of

my lion, and convey (heir thoughts to one another.

4.

Addi/on.

INTRrNSECAL,

adj.

[intrin/ecu,,

to give occafion to.
Vthniofver irjfroduies habits in children, defervea
atten'icfi)
of their govemois.
Locke.
the care and

To bring into writing or difcourfe by
Il he will introduce himfelf by prefaces, we cannot
help it.
Layer's Trial.

IntroOu'chr, «./.

Lat.

This word is now generally written //f/nV^ca/, contrary' toetymointrin/ejue,

To produce;

proper preparatives.

IjfTm'cuiKCLT. adt>, [from intrigue.]
With intrigue; with fecret plotting.
Fr.

ialrr duie
1

I

1

.

[i>rlrcduffeur,¥r.

from

]

One who condu^s another to a place or
perfon.

to be but

book.

an

Boyle.

iNTROGRii'ssiorr. It. f. [introgreffio, Lat.]
Entrance ; the aft of entering.
Intro'it. »./. [intioit, Fr.] The beginning of the .Ylafs ; the beginning of pub.lick devotions.
Introm I'ssiON. n.f. [ititroniijjlo, Lat.]
1. The aft of fending in.
If fight be caufed by intromifpon, or receiving in
the form of that which is feen, contrary fpecies or
forms lliould be received confufcdly together, which
Ariftolle ihews to be abfurd.
Ptachum.
All the reafon th.it I could ever hear alleged by the

icparatc from us are rtiff and oblt.nate, and will not
fubmit to the rules of our church, and that theielore
they fhould be taken away.
South,

In the Scottilh law.
The aft of intermeddling with another's effefts; as, he
fhall he bro-.^ght to an account for his intromiffions iviihfuch an eflate.

2.

To 1'ntromit. i/.a. [introniillo, Lat.]
1. To fend in ; toletin; to admit.
to be the medium by
2. To allow so enter
which any thing enters.
;

Glafs in the window intromits light without colj
to thofe in the room.

Hotdtr

'i'inged bodies and liquors refleft fome forts ot rays

tice.

To form plots to carry on
the noun.]
private defigns, commonly of love,
Intri'cuer. n. J. [intrijrueur, Fr. from in-

f

[inttoduco, Lat!

To condutfl or ulher into a place, br to a

1

oppofite deiigns againtl that of the hero are the mid-

To Inth'cuE. v. n.

a.

introduire, French.]

The

caufes ate the beginning of the aflion,

Hbak, Antony and Cleopatra^

To INTRODL'CE. -v.

fable

As

This introductory difcoufe itfelf is

chief factors tor a general intromijfion of all fe<ffs and
peifuafions into our Communion, is, that ihofc who

tangled. Not in ufe.
Such fmiling rogues as thefe.

S^i'lft.

Previous; ferving as a means to

efiay, not a

[This word feems
to have been ignorantly formed between
intricate and intrinfecai.]
Perplexed ; en-

A yoting fellow long made love, with much artifice
and intrigue^ to a rich widow. Addi/c/t't Guaidian.
The hero of a comedy is reprefented vi*£lorious in

Souti,

[from inircduilus,

fomething further.

Intri'nsec ATE. adj.

F/atman.

all

Crev.

rent value.

which
m.<n/ parties are engaged ; ufually an
affair of love.
1 hefe arc the grand inrrigitei of man,

1.

God, as well as to
Hammond's Pundamen:ah.
on accident ; fixed in

Fr.

[introduBif,

Serving as the means

guide the mind into the former.

Lat.]

The difference between worth and merit, ftri£lly
taken; that, is a man's inlrinfick, this, his cur-

Sidney.

INTRl'GUE.//./. [intrigue, Fr.]

adj.

in:r.duce.]

Introdu'ctorv. adf

the nature of the thing.

He found fuch intrieateneft-, that he could fee no

new thing

The truths ot Chrift crucified, is the Chridian's
philofophy, and a good life is the ChriOiaii's Logick ;
that great inllrumental inlroduiiive art, that muft

in contrariety to the feciet will of

his revealed.

intricate,]

bringing any

to foinething elfe.

Inlrirfick goodnefs confilts in accordance, and fin

Sivifi.

1'ntricateness.

from

Bentley.

perplexity.
That varitiy of factions into which we are fo in-

of

Int8.odu'ctive.

IVultJn.

Intri'nsick. adj. [intrinfectts, Lat.]
1. Inward; internal; real; true."

tricately engitged, gave occafion to this difcourfe.

adt

I

material felt-a£live fubdauce that can pervade it.

intricate.]

With involution of one in another; with

he

he preface or part of a book containing previous matter.

3.

at the infide.

;

'1

The aicbilhop of C«!itcibury had purfued the iniroduliion of the litingy and the canons into Scotland with great vehemence.
Clarendon*

a thing abfolutely and intrinfecally evil.

cally.

adti.

2.

into notice or practice.

ufe.

I'ntric ATELY.

;

or conduced.

really.

fecally and foliJly valuable.

Not proper, nor in

perplex ; to darken.

is

naturally;

[introduaiort,

I

Soutij.

His ftlle was fit to convey the moll intrira:e bufinefs to the underttanding with the unnoll clearnefs.
Addijon.

Ti I'ntricate. [from the adjeftive.]

Internally;

Fr.
Lat.]
he aft of conduiftlng or ufhering to any
.
place or perfon the ftateof being ulhered
~

Woiten.

lancholy hours.

obfcure.

plicated ;

man in appearai.ce ir-

trinfecat ^\K\i him, or at leall admitted to his me-

Entangled ; perplexed ; involved ; com-

n. /,

iiitr.d.i^io,

JVolt(.n.

Greville was a

Sir Fulk

Latin.]

Swft.

Introdu'cticn

Grahim, vUio dilfuaded him Itom marriage.

Addifon.

adj.

miracle.

Out ot ufe.

He falls into intrinfecai fociety with Sir John

nm

haviour

Beiltry.

felf.

2.

admii'cd by Anllotle, as perplexing that fable with
»ery grceabie plots and iTthicacies. by the
y adveniures in his voyag?, and the fubtilty ot his be-

rNTRICATE.

bute to my lord of Leiietfer; but jet as an introducer or fupporter, not as a teacher.
Ifotlon.
It is commonly charged upon the army, that the
bealtly vice of drinking to cxcefs hath been lately,
from their example, rcftoied among us; but who.
ever the introducers were, they have fucceeded to t

againlithcm.
The near and intrinfecal, and convincing argument of the being of God, is from human nature it-

State

;

,.,.

The beginning of the Earl of Effex I muft attri-

'Tiihtjon.

perplexity ; invoentangled
lution ; complication of fa6ts or notions.
The pail of Ulyfles in Homer's OdylTcy is much
lieing

Any one who brings any .tbin2,intO
praflice or notice.

Thefe meafure the laws of God not by the intrinJecaJgoodneh and equity of them, but by reluftancy
and oppofition which tiiey hnd in their own hearts

whom no place is

new.

of

z.

not merely apparent.

boldly ; daringly.

NT

I

1. Internal ; folid : natural ; not accidental

He talcts the ijlobe for the fcene; he launches
forward ifrtre^ijiy^ like one to

N T

and /«/r£)w// or tranlmit other lorts.

Nev/ton^

To Introspe'ct. 1/. a. [tnlrofpe^us, Lat.]

To take a view of the infide.
iNTRospt'cTioN

n. f. [troiii

introfpeO^

A view of the infide.
The actings of the mind or imagination itfelf, by
way of leflettion or introfpeclion ot thcmlelves, are
difcermbic by man.

Hale.
was toitcd tcj make an inttofpeiiion into my own
mind, aud into that idea ol beauty which 1 have
formed in my own imagination.
Dryden.
1

iNTROVt'i^ I ENT. adj. [intra and
Latin.]
Entering; coming in.
Scarce any condition which

is

<veiao,

not exhaulted anti

obfcured, from the commixture of introvenienr na*
tiuns, either by commerce or conqiied.
Brovm.

To IN I'RU'DE. -v, n, [intrude, Latin.]
I.

To

INT

I

To come in unwelcome by a kind of

I.

violence ; to enter without invitation or
permiffion.
Thjr yein want wit, thy wit wants edge
And manners, to imrude where I am grac'd.
Sbahfp.
The Jewifh religion was yet in potTeflTioni and

omnipotence.

of his debts ; though in fuch a manner, that none of
the duke's officers were inirujled with the knowledge
"^ *'•
Clarendon.
Receive my counfel, and fecurely move
Intrufl thy fortune to the pow'rs above.
Dryden.
Are not the lives of thole, who draw the fword
In Rome's defence, intrtijied to our care ?
Addif.

He compofed his billet-doux, and

Forgive me, fair one, if officious friendlhip
inlrudii ex your repofc, and comes thus late

time
appointed went tajnlrif/l it to the hands of his confident.
Arbuthnot,
Instui'tion. n.
[intuiius, iiittieor, Lat.]

Wo greet you with the tidings of fuccefs.

1.

perfonal pofleffions.

unpermitted

:

:

to force in uncalled or

fometimes with into.

Cot, ii. 18.

who
affairs

ignorantly in unbelief, and upon that intuition had

TilNVA'DE. -v. a. [invado, Latin.]
To attack a country to make an hoftile

[from intrude.'] One
himfcif into company or
without right or welcome.

itty.

Davit* on Ireland,
Will you, a bold intruder, never learn
To know your balket, and your bread difcern ?
Dryden.
She had feen a great variety of faces : they were
all ftrangen and intruders, fuch as (he had no ac-

difagreement; this therefore is called //»/«;V/Vf knowLocke.
Lofty flights of thoughts, and almoft intuitive perception of abllrufe notions, or exalted difcoveries of

mathematical theorems, we fometimes fee exiftent in
one perfon.
Bent/ey.
2.

of things not feen, ended with the intuitive vilion of
God in the wcrll to come.
Hooker.

Addifon's Freeholder

Fr. intrujio,

Lat.]
1-

The

of thrufting or forcing any
thing or perfon into any place or ftate.
Many excellent drains have been joftled off by the
aft

a«/riv^^«j of poetical tidions.

Brotcn.

The feparation of the parts of one body, upon the
jntrufioH of another, and the change from rel> to
motion upon impulfe, and the like, feem to have
fome connexion.
Lode.

3. Encroachment upon any perfon or place;
unwelcome entrance; entrance without
invitation or permiflion.
I

you

think myfelf in belter plight for a lendei than
are, the which hath ibmething emboldened

me to this unfcafoned inlrujion; for they fay, if
jDOoey go before,

all

ways do

lie

open.

Sbaicefpdjre.
Frogs, lice, and flies, muft all his palace fill

With loath'd mtrujii>n.

Milfjn's Paradife Lyji,

How's this, my fon ? Why this intritjian ?

Were not my orders that I (faould be private ?
may clofe, after fo long an rnlrufim upon your

meditations.

M'ake's Preparation f^r Deatli.

3. Voluntary and uncalled undertaking of
any thing.
It will be faid, I handle an art no way fuitable
my employment or fortune, and fo (land
charged with intriijitn and impcriinency.
Wotion.

cither to

To Iktru'st. ij. a.

[»«

and

/r*/?.]

3.

:

1 E/drat.
think'ft

'tis

much, that

this coatentiout

ftorm
Invades us to the (kin ; fo 'tis to thee :
But where the greater malady is fix'd,

The lefTer is fcarce felt.

Sbake/pearr's King Liar.

To violate by the firft aft of holtility

3.

to attack, not defend.
Your foes are fuch, as they, not you, have made j

And virtue may repel, though not invade. Dryden.
Inva'der. ».y. [from in^vaao, Latin.]

One who enters with hoftility into the

I.

pofleffions of another.

immediately without ratiocination.
The rule of ghoftiy or immaterial natures,

The breath of Scotland the Spaniards could not
endure ; neither durft they, as invaders, laud in

as

Ireland.

fpirits and angels, is their intuitive intclleftual
judgment, concerning the amiable beauty and high
goodnefs of that objedt, which, with unfj;eSkablejoy
and delij^ht, dolh fct them on work.
Hooker.

In (harp conteft of battle found no aid
Againft in^iaders.
Milton's Paradife I^ft.

The foul receives
Difcurfive or intuitive.

That knowledge, like the coal from the altar,
fervcs only to embroil and confume the facrilegioui

Miilon.

invaders.

Intui'tively. eiJv. {iiitiiiti'vemtfit Fr.j
Without deduiflion of reafon; by imme,

Denham's Sophy.

The country about Attica was the molt barren of
any

who can pronounce, faving only the I
men's hearts, who alone intuitively
doth know in this kind who are his?
Hooker.
Goi .Almighty, who fees all things intuilive/y,
unfeigned,

Baker on learning.

Intume'scence. }
Intume'scencv. J
;

}t.f.\intumefceMt,Yz.
»>/aOT5/?«,Lat.]Swel];
the act or ttate of fwelling.

According to the temper of the terreous parts at the
bottom, as they are more hardly or ealily moved,
they varioufly begin, continue or end their intumej.
eenciis.
Broxun.

This fubterranean heat caufes a great ratcfaflion
and intumefeence of the water of the abyfs, putting
into very great commotions, and occafions an
it
earth'[uake.

H'oidu-jrd.

Lat.]

Swelling;

fwelling.

[in And tur^^co,

the aft or

ftate

of

in Greece, through

which means it happened

that the natives were never expelled by the fury of
invaders.
Sivift,
Secure, by \\ illiam's care, let Britain ftand;
Nor dread the bold invader's hand.
Prior*
Erteem and judgment with ftrong fancy join,

all

does not want logical helps.

Decay of Piety,

Were he loft, the naked empire
Would be a prey expos'd to all invaders,

diate perception.
That our love is found and (incciT, that it Cometh
from a pure heart, and a good confcience, and a faiih
fearcher of

Bacon.
Their, piety

,

To I^•ruRGu'scENCE. ». /.

treat with confidence ; to charge with
any fecict comimlEon, oi thing of value (

i

Thou

Having the power of difcovering truth

tumour

Addif. Cato.
I

Seeing, not barely believing.
Faith, beginning here with a weak apprehenfipn

To attack;

to aflail ; to aflault.
There (hall be fedition among men, and invading
one another
they (hail not regard their kings.

2.

le'lge-

The whole fraternity of writers rife up in arms
againft every new intruder into the world of fame.
\_intiv/ion,

Kncouraged with fuccefs, he invades the province
of philofophy.
Dryden.
in vain did natuiv's wife command
Divide the waters from the land,
If daring (hips, and men prophanc.
Invade th' inviolable main.
Dryden,

Fr.]

Seen by the mind immediately without the
intervention of argument or teftimon)'.

Immediate perception of the agreement and difa.
greement of two ideas, ii when, by comparing them
together in our minds, we fee their agreement or

». /.

Rome, whofe afcending tow'rs (hall heav'n invade.
Involving earth and ocean in her (hade.
Dryden,

Dryden.

They were but intruders upon the poffeflion, during the minority of the heir ; they knew thofe lands
were the rightful inheritance of that young lady.

Intru'sion.

Thy race in times to come
Shall fpread the conquefts of imperial Rome

Intu'itive. aJj. [iutuirivus, low Lat, /«/«I.

Haii.

Should he invade any part of their country, h«
would foon fee that nation up in arms.
Knollcs.
With dang'ruus expedition they invade
Heav'n whole high walls fear no affault.
Milton.

He their fingle virtues did furvey.

I

Lode.

He will invade them with troops.

Locke.

KnowJedee not obtained by dedudion

By intuition in his own large breaft.

;

entrance.

South.

!

quaintance with.

I .

Difcourfe was then almoft as quick as intuition.

». /.

Unmannerly intruder as thou art
Shake/peare.
Go, h^Xt intruder ! over-weening Have
Beftow thy fawning fmilcs on equal mates.
Siai.

Dprden.

Government ofilie Tongue,'

GlunviUc,

Pope,

forces

The vcft and veil divine,

All knowledge of caufes is deduflive ; for we know
none by fimple intuition, but through the mediation
of their effeils ; for thecaufality iifelf is iiifenfible.

government, which the princes keep fccrct, is reprelented by the winds (hut up in a bull hide, which
•he companions of Ulyffes would needs be fo foolifh

being wreathed or

Which wand'ring foliage and rich flow'rs iniv>lne.

of reafon, but inftantaneoufly accompany-,
ing the ideas which are its objcd.

Not to intrude one's felf into the myfteries of

To be inferted by

2.

At our rate of judging, St. Paul had palTcd fo» a'
moll malicious perfecutor; whereas God faw he did

called felf-evident.

2.

jreciprocal pronoun.

Jntru'der,

This opinion, though falfe, yet intvinrd with a
that the fouls of men do never perilh, abated
the fear of death in them.
Hooker.
tr •,

The truth of thefe propofitions we know by a bare

welcome; commonly with the

as to pry into.

To twift, or wreath together.

1.

at the

Cmple intuition of the ideas, and fuch propofitions are

To force without

Intru'de. 1;. a.

right or

Spenjert

twifted.

mercy on him.

tling into thofc things which he hath notfeen, by his
!?"<>

She bound it with her fcarf.

To Intwi'ne. v, a, [in and Cwitte.']

Sight of any thing; ufed commonly of
mental view. Immediate knowledge.

it

Let no man beguile you of your reward, in a voluntary humility, and worfliipping of angels, intru.
fielhly mind.

Bruife.

She did fearch the fwelling bruie,

And having fearch'd the intu/e deep,

f

IVatls.

To encroach

3.

luTv'se. «,/. [intu/'us. Lit.]

_

Rtiue.
Some thoughts rife and intrude upon us, while we
Ihun them j others fly from us, when we would hold

them.

intmge/tenciet caufed firft at the bottom, and carrying the upper part of it before them.
BrtviM,

His majefty had a felicitous care for the payment

Seuii.

N V

I

Not by attenuation of the upper part of the fea, b«t

we inirttji fomething to another.

therefore that this might fo enter, as not to intrude,
it was to bring its warrant from the fame hand of

5. It is followed by e» before pcrfons, or

NT

as, we ItttruJ} another ivith fomething ; or

To call the fair invader in

;

My darling favourite inclination, too.
All, all confpiring with the foe.

Granville,

2.

An affailant.

3.

Encroacher; intruder.
The fubftance was formerly comprifed in that un-

compounded Ityle, but afterwai'ds prudently enlarged
for the repelling and preventing heretical invaders.

Hammond,

Invale'scence. tt. /.

[Invale/ce, Latin.]

Strength ; health ; force.

LW^A'LID.

adj.

falidut, Latin.]

Dia.

French; inWeak; of no weight or

[itt'valide.

rogeacy.
But

NV

I

I

But this I urgf.

To In'Va'lidate. th, a. [from iirval/d.]
To weaken ; to deprive of force or effi-

A cenfure in fpeech or writing

cacy.

To iirvalidate fuch a confequeace, fome things
BoyU,

th^t he is
bring a fcore of vvitndTes of the falfchood
of his miftrcfs, and it is ten to one but three kind
words of her's, (hall invalidate all their teftimonie;.

jilted,

One difabled

Ikvali'de. »./. [French.]
by ficknefs or hurts.

What beggar in the iTri'alidts,
With lamcnefs broke, with blindnefs fmitten,

2.

Udite, Fr.]

The fphere of Cupid forty years contains.

Woe to them imiinvent to themfelves inllruments

Englith meaning.

3.

He ordered, that none who could work (hould be
and that none who could not work, by age,

idle ;

Temple.

itckncfs, or invalidiiy, (hould want.

In va'lu ABl.1!. adj. [/«and •vnluab!e.'\ Fre-

We may invent
With what more forcible we may offend
Our enemies.
In the motion of the bones

The faith produced by terrour would not be fo

Bay.

ploy'd.
And that which each invented,

adj.

[from the noun.]

adj.

\in

and

Lat.

'uarius,

determine thefe
alterations by foine known and invariable figns, and
they

thought

fuch they conceive the

bcft to

rificg

and

fetling

fised ftars.

of the

Brmun.

i

The rule of good and evil would not appear uniform
according to men's
Atterbury.
difTcrent complexions and inclinations.

and invariable, but

diflferent,

I.nva'riableness. n. f. [from invariable.

'\

Immutability ; conftancy.

Then various

The

tirical; abufive.

1

Sam. XXX.

Reafon finds a fecret grief and remorfe from every
invajiin that fin makes upon innocence, and that
mufi render the firil eatraoce and admiffion of fin
uneafy.
Seuii,
The nations of ih' Aufonian (horc
Shall hear the dreadful rumour from afar»
Of arm 'd invajion, and embrace the war.

conceptions, not inveigle or detain our paiTions.
Boyle.
I leave the ufe of garlick to fuch as are inveigled
into the gout by the ule of too much drinking.

invafwn was from the two extremes.

Loclte.

z. Attack of a difeafe.

What dcmonllrates the plague to be endemial to
Egypt, is its invafton and going off at certain fcafons.
Arbutknot,
Inva'sive.
hoftilcly

adj.

[from

im)ade,'\

upon other men's

Entering
poffeffions

not defenfive.
muft come clofcr to my purpofe, and not make
tore invafive wars abrojd, when, like Hannibal, I
called
back to the defence of my country.
am
Dryden.
Let other monarch?, with invajive bands,
Ldlcn tbcir people, and exicQ4 their laEds
I

Temple.

The inveigling a woman, "before (he is come to
years of difcrction, (hould be as ciiminal as the fcSprSiator.
ducing of her betore (lie is ten years old.

Or Cybel's frantick rites have made them mad.
Spenfer,

Inve'ntor. n.f. [from iwventeur, French.]
1. One who produces fomething new; a
devifer of fomething not known before.
As a tranftator, hewasjult; as an inventor, he
was rich.
2.

Latin.]

[iavet/ttr, Fi. imjetiio,

Garlii.

A forger.

Inve'ntion. n.f.

Urtventicn, Trench ;

I'a-

vcntio, Latin.]

Excogitation ;_thc aft or power of pro-

I .

ducing fomething new.

O for a mufe of lire, that would afccnd
The brighteft heaven of invention I

Slakefp,

By improving what was writ before,
Invention labours lefs, but judgment more.
Rojcotftmn.
Invention is a kind of mufey wh'rch, bfirig pofcommon
to
her.fTfters,
advantages
fi^lTed of the other
and being warmed by the fire of Apollo, is raifcd
Dryden,
higher than the re(t.
Mine is th' inventionoi the charming lyre :
Sweet notes and heav'niy numbers 1 infpire.
"

Dryden.

The chief excellence of Virgil is judgment,' of
Homer \iinvention.
FnfC
z. Difcovery.
Nature bjih provided (everal glandules to feparate
from the blood, and no lefs than four pair
of channels to convey it into the niuuih, which arc

fpittle

deceiver; allurer to ill.

To INVE'NT, 1/, a,

Shak.

Not uftd.
;
to meet with.
Far off he wonders what them makes fo glad;
Or Bacchus' merry fruit they did invent.

Inviicler. n.f. [from i/rveigle.^ Seducer;
Being prcfenled to the Emperor for his admirable
beauty, the prince clapt him up as his invcigler.
Sandys.

to make by the imagination.

To light on

4.

Shakejpeaxe.

entire length of time, it (hews at what diftauce this

ma-

Hercules's meeting with Pleafure and Virtue was
invented by Prodicus, who lived before Socrates, and
Addifan.
in the firlV dawnings of philolbphy.

Yet have they many baits and guileful fpcUs,
To Inveigle and invite th' unwary fenfe
Of them that pafs unwccting by the way. Milton.
Both right able
Hudibra:.
T' inveigle and draw in the rabble.
Thofe drops of prettincfs, fcattcringly fprinkled
amongd the creatures, were deiigned to exalt our

;

With full as many figns of deadly hate.
As lean-fac'd envy in her loathfome cave.

in retaining li^undrels to retail theirlyes. Arbuthnot.

Dryden't yiSa,
William the Conqueror invaded England about
the year 1063, whiih means this; that taking the
duration from our Saviour's time 'till now, for one

to contrive falfely ; to fabri-

;

I would invent as bitter fearching terms,

Dryden.
agairjl the vices of the clergy in his age.
He imeighi feverely againft the folly of parties,

Tliat eal'y was to inveigle weaker fight.
Was, by her wicked arts and wily (kill.
Too falfe and Itrong for earthly (kill or might.
Fairy S^ueen.
Achilles hath inveigled K\i fool from him.

Creech.

never did fuch things as thofe men have

To feign

3..

:

Inva'riably. ad'v.\ixon\ i>rvari(Alt.'\ Un-

1

enjoy'd.

help

Sufan. xliii.
Here is a ftrange figure invented, againlt the
Stillingjieet.
plain fenfe of the' words.

ment railer.

Wc made an invajion upon the Cherethitcs.

all

•em*

licioufly invented againft me.

Yea, and of this our life; fwearing that we

One of thefe inveighen againft mercury, in feven
weeks, could not cure one fmall herpes in the face.
changeably ; conftantly.
IViJeman,
He, who fleers his courfe invariably by this rule,
To INVEIGLE, v. a. [in'vogliare, Ital.
takes the furefl way to make all men praife him.
Atterbury,
Mjnjhenxi; aveugkr, or enanjeugler, Fr.
Ihva'hok.h,/. [i«a-/jfo», French ; irrvafio,
To pcrfuade to
Skinnir and Junik!.'\
Latin.]
fomething bad or hurtful ; to wheedle
I. Hoftile entrance upon the rights or pofto allure ; to feduce.
feffions of another; hoftile encroachment.
Moft falfe DuelTa, royal richly dight,

working thoughts

cate.

Thus moft inveclive/y he pierceth through

Inveigher. n.f. [from /Vrff/gA.] Vehe-

by

(hip,

To forge

2.

The body of the country, city, court.
Siaie/feare.
Are mere ufurpers, tyrants.
To INVE'IGH, 'V. a. [itmeho, Latin.] To
with agaitijl.
utter cenfure or reproach
I cannot blame him for inveighing fo Iharply

cares their

of a fcrew, invented by.
Archimedes, was launched into the water.
ArbutiinQt,

Sa-

Inve'cti VELY. ad'v. Satirically; abufively.

invariable, V.^ Unchangeable; conilant.
Being not able to defiga times by days, months,

By manag'd tire and late invented eyes. Blackmore.
But when long time the wretches thoughts refin'dy

back with a rebounded
Decay of Piety.
force upon our own real ones.

Auetbury.

Isva'riable.

Who Nature's mazy intricacies trace,
'

their fuppofed crrours fall

Let him rail on ; let his inveCiive mufe;
Dryden.
Have four-and-twenty letters to abufe.

it

Ye (kilful malVers of Machaon's race.

When want had fet an edge upon their mind.

ought, to which are annexed all
tlie glorious and invaluable privileges of believing.
ftee an aC> as

Milton.

in their articulations,

a twofold liquor is prepared for the inunction of their
heads ; both which make up the moll apt mixture^
for this ufe, that can be invented or thought upon.

Lefs properly with at.
Whillt we condemn others, we may indeed be in
the wrong ; and then all the inveStives we make at

Inve'ctive.

cious above cftimation ; inellimable.

Amot,

of mufick.

fell into bitter inveQi'jes

Bacon' t HenryVW,

Spenftr.

Matter of mirth enough, though there were none
She could dcvifc, and thouland ways invent
To feed her foolilh humour and vain jolliment.
Fairy ^^ueen.

It is ufed with agahjl.
So defp'rate thieves, all hopelefs of their lives.
Breathe out inveBives 'gairjt the officers.
Carting off r^fpea, he
againjl the French king.

Hooker.

By their count, which lovers books invent.

ShateJf.Henryy\.

Weakncfs; want of cogency.
Want of bodily ftrength. This is no

may not be invented of men, but muft

be received from God himfelf.

Dvyd. Juv.
Prhr.

Wilh'd ever decently to die?

years,

doth tcacli,

a re-

;

Plain men deiiring to ferve God as they ought,
but being not fo (kilful as to unwind themfelves,
where the fnares of glofing fpeech do lie to entangle
them, are in mind not a little troubled, when they
hear fo bitter inveBivei againd that which this
church hath taught them to reverence as holy, to
approve as lawful, and toobferve as behoveful for the
Hooker.
exercife of Chriltian duty.
If we take fatyr, in the general (ignification of tlie
word, for an inveEiive, 'tis almoti as old as vcrte,

Ikvali'dity. a./. [_ia and 'Validity ; itrva-

or

The fubftance of the fervice of God, fo far forth
as it hath in it any thing more than the law of reafon

proachful accufation.

might be fpccioufly enough alledged.
Tell a man, paffionatcly in love,

2.

to produce fomething not made before.

Invh'ctive. n.f. \im)eBi've; French; /'«'Vtiliiia, low Latin.]
1.

N V

Todifcover; to find out; to excogitate;

1.

Arbutbmt.
MiltCH.

1.

I

Lords of the defatts that their fwords had made.

Admitting motion in the heav'ns, to (htw
Invalid, that which thee to doubt it mov'il.

'

N V

By gafping nations hated and obey'd.

of a late /mttar/'sf. and called dvdus/alivalrs
Ray vn tlie Creation^
3.

Forgery;

fiftion.

We hear our bloody coufins, not confefling
Their cruel parricide, tilling their hearers

Witt ftraijge invention.

Shakejp, Macltth,

NV

I

hiftoiy and

Sbalufp.

TI.e ganJcH, » p'"" '"« f*'"' '" '"'""' ."T"'"
S:d«ey,
ments than ariiticial invaiiim.
he
Th' invemha all admir'il; and each how

„

]

adj.

o

dients.
purpotes,
Tlmfe have the invimlveft beads for all
Afcham.
and i»undell tongufs in all matters.

Invr'rsion.

fiftion.

the precept of

j

1.

before

t. A contriver; a fraroer.

Sbakt/peare.

IValUr,

I

;

Dryden.

an invtnii,ry to particularize their
Shakifp. Coriolanus.

Whoe'er looks,
Tor ihemfclves dare not go, o'er Chcapfide books,
Dcnne.
Shall find their wardrobe's invnlory.
U«ere of much cnofequence to have fuch an inone
hand,
the
as,
on
wherein,
vmti-ry of nature,
noihing (hould be wanting, fo nothing repealed on

CrnuU Mufaum.

In Pcrfia the daughten of Eve are reckoned in
the i>i'(B»«y of their goods and chatties j a^d it is

man fells a bale of filk, to tofs half a
Addifon.
women into the bargain.
[inveniorier, Fr.J
iSfe I.n'ventoRY. v. a.
ufual, when a

!' 'dozen

To regifter; to place in a cutalogue.
I

t

Prior.

,

,

^

'iodrefs; to clothe; to

u well as goods.

Gov. of tie Tongue.

A female that invents.

munication of it

from

method

Invefiifration calm, whofe filent
Command the world.

1.

Examination.
Your travels 1 hear much of: my own (liall
diligent i«never more be in a l\rangc land, bui a

-vefimettt.l

Drcfs; clothes; garment; habit.
Ophelia, do not believe his vows; for lUey are
brokers.

Not of that dye which their invejlmentt (hew.

I'o place in poffeflion of a rank or ofiice.

Spakrjp.

You, my lord jrchbilhop,

When wc fanttiiy or hallow churches, that which
make them places ot
himfell

powers
Tbemfon's Summr.

pnfTcffi^in.
z. Theaft of giving
iNVt'sTMENT. n. j. \in Z'a^

MilUn.

we imi'fl God

"'"•

He had refufed to yield up to the pope the ineccUfiafticaJ
vtjliiure of bilhops, and collation of
Raltigb't Ejjayt.
dignities within his dominions.

Dtnbmn' iS<^ty

teliify that wl-

in fuch a

manoiir, office, or benefice.

Ixveft them viiih thy loves, put on

tl»t

praflifed

Pope tu Sui/t.
vepgadon of my own tctriiories.
[French.]
»/.
TUR?.
Inve'sti
giving poffeliion of any
I. Ihe right' of

Let thy eyes Ihine torih in their full luftrcj

lefort,

is often

agrees precilely to fynthetick or

f

Hhak^p. Uimy V.
So many horrid ghoUs.
Thou wilb a mantle didft inveji

we do IS only tu

aifo,

as neither

analytick.
.
^
^ ^
Progrcfiive truth, the patient force of thought

Invell in lank lean checks and war-worn coals,
I'rcfentcd ihcm uiiio the gazing mjon,

2.

Fr.

a. /. [iaveftigan'oH,

truths are difcovered.
Not only the invefiigilion of truth, but the com-

Their gefture fad,

Thy choicert looks.

Holder on Speech.

The aft of the mind by which unknown

I.

or conferred.

public

iirveHtu-.}

It has

The riling world of waters.

Sbaie/p.
label I'd.
.
A man looks on the love of his friend as one o(
the phil^fophei thought
the richeft poffefluns:

I.nve'ntfiess. ». /.

arr.iy.

in or ewiih liefore the thing fuperinduced

give out divers fchedufcs of my beauty
be inrnlorlid, and every particle and ulenfil

[iiiventrice, Fr.

ittvcfiio,

[inv.jHio,

invcJUgatio , Latin.

In

Fr.

\_itrjej}2r,

a.

to find out by

the

Investiga'tion.

,

Latin.]
I,

:

prtfent appearances invrjlgate the
powers and forces of nature, and from ihelc account
Cbeyni.
for future obfcrvations.

own private ule, and having lecret

a.

-v.

To fearch out

rational difquifition.
Invejligate the variety of motions and figures made

Fiom

Placing the forepart of the eye fo the hole of
the window of a daikcncd room, wc have a pretty
landlkip of iheobjcfls abroad, invertedly painted on
Derham.
the paper, on the back of the eye.

will

friends were to be inveaturitJ

Latin.]

good beiore a
by reafon invjliHooker.

lefs
is

by the organs for articulation.

to

To Inve'st. v.

prefer a

To INVE'S'lIGAl E.

KnolUs'l Hljlory of ibe Turks.

abundance, our fuScringt is a gain to them.

we

the greatnefs whereof
g,ii/.; and mav be known.

Sbaie/p. Inve'htedly. adv. [from inverted.^
The feveral parcels of his plate.
The leaniieft that afflifls us, the objeft of our
contrary or revcrfed order.

it (hall

In doing evil,
greater,

intelligence with his enemies.

that the

knowledge of them is general; the world hathalwajs
H;oker.
been acquainted with them.

turn into another chanInftead of this fosttr/
nel; to imbczzle.
or intervert is now commonly ufed.
Solyman charged him bitterly with invcriing his

3. To divert;

treafures to his

the other.

difquifition.

Happy, could Ned's inverted rule

found,
torfooth, an inventpry, thus importing.

as

k^ood'U-arJ.

Ikve'sticable.^<^'. [fromittv.jiigatf.] To
be fearched out ; difcoverable by rational

Ye5, every poet is a fool

1

is

which, when confolidatcd and freed from its iwejlient
ll.cil.
Ihell is of the fame fliape as the cavity of the

By demonftration Ned can (liew it

logue of raoveablci".

inifery,

;

2. To place the laft firft.

An account or cata-

Latin.]

[irtvrfiiem,

adj.

Covering clothing.
The (hells fcrved as pUi'ms or moulds to this fard,

Poefy and oratory omit things elVential, and invert
times and aflions, to place every thiig la the moft
A^"//..
alTeaing light.

Shakrjf. HamUt

Baton.

Finally, in fuch fort they are invefiigaile,

And Winter ftorms (BirrMhe year.

In an ill fenfe.

INVE'NTORY. n f. {inwiioire, French

was

in^efietb a tight of

to furround fo as to mtercept fuccours or provilions : as, the
enemy itivejied the town.

Inve'stient.

To turn upfide down; to place in con-

it

To enclofe;

So long delays her flow'rs to bear.

To divide hvenloiiai/y, would dizzy the ariih-

Lat.]

J^"^"-

Prove every fool to be a poet.

melick of memory.

or between foul and body,
government.

A(k not the caufe why fullen Spring

of an inventory.

in-venlorittm,

may come

,

Pray to accept me, and forget my fconi

InveNTOr'i ALLY. acl<v. [from inventory,
whence perhaps iirventorial.^ In manner

'

If there can be found loch an inequality between

Wiih fate umerted, (hall I humbly woo ?
And (ome proud prince in wild Numidia born,

maintained by
Atlerbuiy.

MirvM.

man and man, as there is beiwccn man and bealt,

fubtle in-vcrfinn of

,,

Sbjkffp.

Some great poteptate,
Or of the thrones above; fuch msjefty
Invefii him coming.
4.. To confer; to give.

before.

In this uplhot, purpofes miftook,
Fall'n on th' iinxitlitn' heads.

For this they have been tlioughtfu! to /V.^jS

Their fons with arts and martial e leicifes.

to do good that evil

trary method or order to that which

{At author and inventor, and the reader led into a
that they were never

The fooiifli, over-careful fathers lor this engroi»'d
The cinkei'd heaps of ftiong atchievcd gold |

5.

it is upon a

Skakffp. Macieih.

On all dclctvers.

Dryden.
among the lords and commons.
Change of place, fo that each takes the
room of the other.
To INVK'RT. 'V. a. [iu'veito. Latin.]

eovercd the Weft Indies, alfo the tnveriior of (hips
your Mon- , that was the imitmor of ordnance, and
Bacon.
of gunpowder.
Studious ihey appear
rare.
invfxtoti
Of arts that polifti life ;
Unmindful of their maker. Mi/tcn's Paradift Loji.
Why are thcfe pofiiions chaigcd upon me as their

any perfon of virtue ?

-

2.

It is

written likewifc//('D<'»/'#r.
We. have ihe ftatue of your Columbus, that dif-

belief,

Honour muft
Not unaccompanied, ;jiv{^ him only
But figns of noblcnefs, like llaii, (hall ftiine

parliament
'Tis juft the ;«T/rc/fi'» of an act of
paffcd
your lordlhip lirtl figned it, and then it was

Inve'ntoh. «./. [^inventor, Latin.]

A finder out of fomething new.

God,

To adorn; to grace; as clothes ot ornaments.

Fr. inverfio,

\iirjerfiott,

of"-

RaMgb.

Reafon, remembrance, wit, iirvenlive art,
Denbam.
No nature, but immortal, can imparl.

1.

3.

and firft laft.

If he fpcaks truth,

iirvenlive brain, fo there never
of
that believed better thereof, and

As he had an
himfelf.

Burvrt.

Change of order or time, fo as that the
laft is firft,

man

'
The pradice nf all ages, and ccbeen to do honour to thofe who are invrjhd tciii
Aiieriwry.
pubUck authority.

Latin.
1.

Having the power of excogiution or

lived any

n. /,

Lambeth.

at

Every part of nutter tends to every part of matter
with a lorce, which is always in a direil proportion
duplicate
of the quantity of matter, and an iniicr/e
Garib.
proportion of the diftance.

Her fatal image from (he temple drew.
The Oeeping guardians of the caftlc ttew. Dryitn.
The urueniivt god, who never fails his parr,
heart.
Infcires
the wit, when once he warms the
^
Dryden,

2:

;

and

fecond is greater than the firft.

That itnjaitlv* head
.

their

their inventor?

Inverted; reciprocal: oppofed to diriii.
the
It is fo called in proportion, when
fourth term is fo much greater than the
third, as the fecond is leis than the firft;
or fo much lefs than the third as the

trom

fr.

[inventif,

when ihey bad

Dryden.
EnUrg'd the former narrow bounds.
Inve'rse. adj [iimerfe, Fr. inver/ut, Lat.J

at contrivance; ready at expe-

Quick

X.

r

ut

N V

After the death of the other arclibiihop, lu wis
^'--I'--'
i«fc^i-</ i»i that high dignity, and fettled

I

Inutnire/s of the vocal frame;

MlltM',?afad,fiLofi.

Impoffible.

iin.-'nt.

,.,

tell

trades,

leffer

The fwcet enthufiaft, from her facred ftore,

To he th" inventor mih'd, fo eafy it feemM
hive
Once found, which yet unfouud moft would
ihougbc

tradition

begmaing; and how many of
invinlreffts were deihed.
Cecilia came,

The thing iiivenie.i.

In»6%itive.

I

The arts with all their retinue of

i( rt»u c«n'ft •ccufe.

Do it wiihnut lin-fntioH luddeiity.
A.

N V

I

«i;A

them, and that we fever them fiom csmnum ufes.
Honker,

.

Whofe fee is by a cinl peace maintained.
Whole beard the (ilvcr hand of peace hath touch d,
Whofe learning and g'lod letters peace hath tutor'H,
Wbefe white in-vjnunti hgurc innocence,

Toe

N V

1

I

The Jove, anJ every b'efled fpirit of jpeaSej
\Vhtre.ore do you (o ill traollare yowrieif
Out o! che fpeech of peace, (hit bears fuch grace,
lato the hdilh and boiiS~>3us tongue of war ?
Slair/ptare.

Long continuance of a

INVE'l ERATE. ar(/. [in-veicratm, Latin.]
not to wear garlands, and therebre
that undoubtedly they did ollfcnd who prefumed to
violate fuch a cultom by not obferving that thing
the very inveterate obfervation whereof was a: law-,
fuSiciei.t to bind all men to oliferve it, iinlcfs they
could ihew fame higher law, fome law of Scripture,

Hxker.

to the contrary.

aiSion.

2.

that it will be hard to find remedies.

intetero, Lat.]
continuance.

I

[iieveterer,

Fr.

To fix and fettle by long

and

a

coafummation

to

fuperllitious

pro-

Ehecies, and to an ancient tacit expectation, which
ad by tradition been infufcd and inveleraied into

men's minds.
Bac^n.
Let not Aibeifli lay the fault of their fins upon
human nature, which have their prevalence from
long cuftom and inveterated habit.
Hentley.

BrnmfrVulgar Erreurt,
Neither the inveteratene/i of the mifchief, nor
the prevalency of the falhion, Oialt be any excule for
thole who will not take care about tiie meaning of
their words.
Ijicie.

Ikvetera'tion. »./. [iitveteratio, L.atin.]

The aft of hardening or confirming by
long continuance.
INVi'DIOUS. adj. [imiiJio/ut, Latin.]
1.

Envious; malignant.
I

Ihall

myHcrious

open
att,

ferve.

to tliem

the interior fecrels of this
without impoliure or invidiattt leEvityn.

2. Likely to incur or to bring hatred.
is the more ufual fcnfe.

This

Agamemnon found it an inviditut aflfair to give
the preference to any one of the Grecian heroes.
Broome,

Not to be further tediouf , or rather invidiauif thefe
are a few caufes which have contributed to the ruin
of our morals.

"

S-uifi.

Inti'diously. adf. [from iirvidioui,']
1.

Malignantly ; envioufly.

The clergy murmur againft the privileges of the
laity; the laity itnidionjly ajjravaie the immunities

cftheclergj.

Vol. 1.

Strati.

to be

adj.

[invifible, Fr.

inviji- '^

Latin.]
Not perceptible by
f.ght ; not to be feen.

bills,

He was /wi/Z/fi/f that hurt me fo;
And none invijible, but fpirits, can go.
The thfeaden fails.

the

Sidney.

Borne with th' invifible and creeping wind.
Drew the huge bottoms to the furrow 'd fea,
Shaiefpeare.
'Tis wonderful,

That an invifible inftinft Ihould frame them

To loyalty unlearu'd, honour untaught. Siiakefpcare.
To us invifible, or dimly feen.
In thefe thy loweft works.
Milton.
He that believes a God, believes fuch a being aa
hath all pcrfediions; among which this is one, that
he is a fpirit, and confe^uently that he is invifible,
and cannot be feen,
Tillotfori,
It feems ealier to make one's felf invifible to
others, than to maJce another's thoughts vilible t«
me, which are not vifible to himfelf.
Locke.

Invincibly.

Milton.
Neither invitations nor threats avail with thofe
who are invincibly impeded, to apply them to their

Dec. if Piety.

INVrOL.\BLE. adj. [ittviolabU, French;
iirviolabiiis ,

'

Ray.

INVl'SIBLE.

Ye have been fearlefs in his righteous caufe ;
And as ye have receiv'd, fo have ye done

1.

innumerable,

viability.

In-

Latin.]

Not to be profaned

not to be injured.
;
Thou, be fure, (halt give account

Invi'sibly.

[from

adv.

perceptibly to the light.

This place inviolable, and thefe Irom harm. Milton,

Age by degrees invifibly doth creep,
Nor do we feem to die, but fall alleep,

In vain did Nature's wife command
Divide the waters from the land,
If daring (hips, and men prophane.
Invade th' inviolable main ;

To Ikvi'scate. v. a.

To lime

;

Im-

invifible.]

To him who fent us, whofe charge is to keep

Denham,

[in znAvi/cus.haX.']

to intangle in glutinous matter.

The camelion's food being flics, it hath in the

Th* eternal tences overleap.
And pafa at will the boundlefs deep.
Dryden.
Ye lamps of heav'n, he laid, and lifted high
His hands, now free ; thou venerable (ky

tongue a mucous and flimy extremity, whereby, upon
a fudden emiirion, it invifcates and intangleth thofe

Brovin.

infcfls.

!

Inviolable pow'rs

ador'd with diead.
Be all ot you adjur'd.
Dryden'i /En.
!

Invita'tion.

2. Not to bebroken.

n. /.

[invitation,

Fr.

in-

The aft of inviting,
Lat.J
bidding, or calling to any thing with
viiatio,

This birthi1|,hf, when our author pleafei, muft
and muft not be facrcd and inviolable.
Locke.

ceremony and civility.

'

1 he prophet David thinks, that the very meeting
of men together, and their .KCOfBpanying one another
to the houfe of God, Ihould make the bond of their
love fnfoluble, and tie them in a league of inviolable

amity.

Hooker.

See, fee, they join, embrace, and fecm to kift.
As if they vow 'd fome league invioULIe.
Sbake/f.

3. Jnfufceptible of hurt or wound.

2. In a manner likely to provoke hatred.

They may be demonftrated

fubrtituting iheir fmallnefs for the reafon of their in-

fuperably ; unconquerably.

benefit.

Fr. from

iitvijible.]
The ttate of being invifible ;
imperceptible nefs to fight.

Shakejpeuie.

[domitrviitcib/e,]

Hudibrat.

[itrvijibilite,

Unconquefablenefs ; inuiperablenefs.

Inve'terateness. v.f, \{X0TC\ hn;eteratf.\
Long continuance of any thing bad
obftinacy confirmed by time.'
As time bath rendered him more perfeil in the
art, fo hath t!ie inveterateneft ot bis malice made lum
more ready io the execution.

That brings both love and virtue too >

Invi'ncibleness. ft,/, [from itni/tcii/e,]

Invi'ncibly. adv.

Impaf-

untrodden.

Invisibi'lity. n.f.

•

Sivifi.

[invius, Latin.]

And virtue invious ways can prove,
What may not he confide to do,

would have thought her fpirits had been Invin-

Should he invade their country, he would loon Ice
that invinciUe nation with their united forces up in
arms.
Knjlles.
The fpirit remains invincible.
Milton.
That miftake, which is the confequerce of invincible errour, fcarce defcrves the name of wrong
judgment.
Locke.
If ap Atheift had had the malting of himfelf, he
would have framed a conftitiition that could have kept
pace with his infatiable lult, been invincible by intemperance, and have held out a thouTand years in a
perpetual debauch.
Bentley.

adj.

If nothing can oppugn his love.

French;

[itnjincibU,

cible againl) all alTaulis of affedtion.

The vulgar conceived, that now there was an end
given,

fable ;

Nanii.

Latin.] Infuperable; unconquerable ; not to be fubdued.

Dryden.
In a «rell-io(lituled Itate the executive power will
inveterate,
or multiply fo far
never let abufes grow

Dryden,

wakefX. inviolate.

like tieav'n's,

Ik'vious.

itevincibilis,

difeafe.

His truth,

Dryden,

raticn.

a,

'

I
find in mylelf an appetitive faculty, which is
always in the very height of ailivity and im'igt-

It is not every fintul violation of confciencc that
can quench the fpint ; but it mull be a long inveterate
courlc and cuftom of finning, that at length produces
Houib,
«nd ends in fuch a curTed effcA.
He who writes facire honellly is no more an enemy
t the o&ndcr, than the phylician to the patient,
«hen lie prefcribes harib remedies to an inveterate

t/.

My love your claim inviolate fecures
'Tis writ in fate, I can be only yours.
In all the changes of his doubtful (late,

The ftatc of being invigorated.

INVl'NCIBLE. adj.

*

Have cancell'd, thou haft ftill preferv'd ;OT'/Va/» .•-'
I beg thy pardon,
Denham'i Sofiy,

Aiteiiitiy.

the bladder, and exulceraie it.

fe Inve'tkrate.

Can hope a pardon, by thofe mutual bonds
Nature has (cal'd between ut, which, though I

Speitaior.

Invicora'tion. w. /. [{[om invigorate.]
1. 1 he aft of invigorating.

an inveteratt and received opinion, that
cantharides, applied to any part of the body, (ouch

Bjcon*t Natural Hijiory.

Denbam.
If the pad

Chriftian graces and virtues they cannot be, unlefs
fed, invigorated, and animated by univerfal charity.

is

2. Obdinate by long continuance.

To thee, even belore frieiidlliip, truth prefer.

Addtfon.

fome and invigorating principle, which fpurs him to

The culiom of Chriftians was then, and had been

.

His fortune of arms was QiiW inviolate.
Bacon's Hen. VII,
But let inviolate truth be always dear

No one can enjoy health, wuhout'he feci a ii^ht-

a long time,

It

Brmvn.

Difclofei well the earth's all-teeming womb,
Ini'igoiatirg tender feeds.
Philips.

them.

Old; long eftablilhed.

[inviolate, Fr. iiiviolatut,

adj.

Lat.] Unhurt ; uninjured ; unprofaned,unpollutcd; unbroken.

1 have lived when the prince, inftead of /«i7^^rating the laws, alTumed a power of difpcnfing \\ith

difeafe.

1.

The true profef^on of Chriftianity inviolably
engages all its followers to do good to all men. i'fratt,

Gentle warmth

means for reAddijon.

[in phyfick.]

2.

have converfed with you, are for ever after invio^
lably yours,
Dryden.

which, dilated, would rather infirm and de-

bilitate.

The inveteracy of the people's prejudices com-

have none: you hjfe
and they who

into a nearer line;

all

The fpleen is introduced to invigorate the finifler Invi'olate.
fide,

ducing them.

acij'jainwnce you

4rawn them

to aniinaie ; to enforce.

obttinacy confirmed by time.

N V

I

Mere

Invi'dioussess. n. f. [from hvlJious ."]
Quality of provoking envy or hatred.
To Invi'gorate. f. a. [/'« and •vigour.']
To endue with vigour ; to ftrengthen

Inve'teracv. »./. \inteleratio , Latin.]
1. Long continuance of any thing bad;
pelled their rulers to make ufe of ail

N V

Th* inviolable faints
In cubick phalanx firm advanc'dintire.

Milton.

Invi'olably. adv. [from iniiolable.]
Without breach; without failure.

That other anfwcr'd with a lowly look,
And foon the gracious invitation took.
Dryden,
Invi'tatory. adj. [from invito, Latin
j
Ufing invitation; containing invitation
7*'TNV1'TE V, a. [invito, Latin ; inviter.
French.]
I. To bid; to aflc to any place, particularly to one's own houfe, with intrcaty
and compiaifance.
'

If thou be invited of a

thy felf.

•

'

.

mighty man, withi!r5«*

.

He (pmes invited by a younger fon,
6 S

Ecclif.

Milton,

When

•

N V

I

Whtn much compiny 'n im/itfJ,
Ijjkiring as polTibie

To allure

2.

then V? »•

Ikvoca'tion

Sivi/i.

of your coals.

fo induce by

tp perfuatle ;

;

i/ivocath,

The

1.

hope or pleafure.

vi£\,

CreatcJ, or luch place halj here to dwell,

lUihon't Parailifi hr.Ji.
To vilit thee.
Ybe liberal contributions fuch teachers met vyith,

I

Mi/ioii.

He who

fcnt by a faclor.
To Invq'ke. w. a.

Latin ; in-voquer, French.] To call upon; to implore;
to pray to ; to invocate.

If he can but dtcfs up a temptation to look invlDtcay uf Piety.
the bufinefe is done.

\inumbr(,, Latin.]

to cover with Ihadc^.

The vKife Author of Nature hath placed on the

inutidatio,

Latin.]

The overflow of waters; floods deluge.
Inundation, foys Cvwlej, implies lefs than

inandation of her tears.
Sbakf/peare.
Thcfa;itc i/t/^fijatjcnvizs not paft forty foot in moll
wild
inhabitants
ol the
that
b(^s; fo
fome

&w

^O^sefcaped.

Uafv/t,

All-fountains of t^c deep.

Broke up, (hall heave the ocean to ufurp
Beyond all bounds, 'till inuxjaihn rife
M'I'on's Parajift Liifl.
This inundation unto the Egyptians happeneih
Ethiopians.
unto
the
W.inter
vh^o it is
Broivn* s yuigitr Erroun.
Yovr care a^out your banks infers a tear,.
Of threatening floods, and inundations near. Drydtn.
Ko {vi^^Sn^inunddticn hides the grounds.
But cryilal currer.ts glide within their bounds. Gay.

Abovethe higbeA hills.
.

a. 'A confluence of any kind.

Many good towns, through that inundation of the
were utterly wafted.

Sfenfo:

Ti I'nvocate. a'. /7. [rVwaw, Latin.]
tp

implore ; to

call;

To entwift

to join.
He knows his end with mine involved. Milton.
4.. To take in; to catch ; to conjo'n.
The gathering number, as it moves along.

U there might be added true art ar.d teaming,
and that
which now men are, as between men that are now
fhihr.
9nd innocents.

Th^t it may no painful work endure.
It r<3 ftrong labour can itfelf inure.

ConfelTor.

Upon the ftiarpeft fronts of the moft fierce. Daniel.
Then cruel, by their fporls to blood inured
Of fighting beafh, and men to beafts esp os'd.
Milton,

To inure
Our prompt obedience.
They, who had been

This reference of the name to a thing whereof we
have no idea,

is fo far from helping at all, that it
only ferves the more to involve us in difficulties.
Locke.
At obfcure and imperfert ideas often involve our
reafon, fo do dubious woixis puzzje men's leafon.

Loth,

To complicate

6.

;

to make intricate.

Slialrjf.

Milton's /IgfniJIts.
Wich lolemntft devotion.
Here rather let me drudge, and earn my bread,
*Till vermin or the dratf of fcrvilc food

Confume roc, ai.d oft invccated death

UlAMb^i^ Wdfom; cad of all my pains.
Aii/ltn't jl^nijlti.

Mi/ton.

Syllogifm is of iiccelTary ufe, even to the lovers of
truth, to (hew iiicm the fallacies that are otien
concealed in florid,^ witty, or puKo/i/fi/difcoutfes.
Loeit.

7.

To blend

;.

Invo'i,untarii,y.

Npt

by,

adv.

[from

Clarendon.

Addi/ce.

PracIn ti'K.EMENT. n.f. [from />//«<•.]
tice; habit; ufe; cuftom; frequency.
mere continuance a leand habitual inclination to the liie it
held, then how much more may education, beirg
nothing clfe but a cor.i^ant plight and inuremenc^^
induce by cuftaoi gaod itabits lata a. reafouable creaIf iron will acquire by

-

cret appetite,

IVoiion.

ture.

To Inu'rn. v.. a.
tomb; to bury.
The fepulchre

[r» and Kr».]

To in—

Wherein we faw thee quietly inurn'd.
Hath cp'd its ponderous and marble jaws

To caft thca up again.

Sbakcjpeare^s Hamlet,

Amidft the tears of Trojan dames inurn'd.
And by his loyal daughters truly mourn'd, thyden.
Inu'stion. n.f. \inufiio, Lat.] The a^t

of burning.
Inu'tii. E. adj. \i»Htile, Fr.
Ufelefs ; unprofitable.

/««/////,

Lat.]

To refer to heat and cold is a compendious and
Eacon*s Natural Hijluiy,

inutile fpeculatiou.

Milton.
itfvolinf

butinels,

We may inure ourfelves by cuftom tu bear the

InuTi'LITY. n.f.

Earth with hell mingle and involve.

to

their lives ever undergone fo great ta-

extremities of weather wiiboui injury.

to mingle together ooniu-

fedly.

tarj.-]

in

Milton's Puradi/e LoJK
mflft inured

tigue for twenty days together.

Tbon^ofth S^nmtr.

S^me involved their fnaky folds.

Co to hu temple, invocate his aid

had not

apratt.

To entangle.

•'>fenfer.

The forward hand, inur'd to wounds, makes way

One death invo/vet
Tyrants and (laves.

Iiubberd*s Taie^

England was a peaceable l^ngdom, and but lately
inured to the mild and goodly g»vernment of the

Involves a vaft involuntary throng.
Po^e.
Sip we Ihould hate altogether; but our hatred of
may involve the perfon, wliich we (hould not hate

5.

much ditTerence, in maturity of

judgffieut, between men therewith inured,

it

at all.

Hooker

guage with us.

;

To

tJppnj to

Poor key-cold figure of a holy king !
Be't lawful, that I invacate thy ghoft,
T* hear the lamentations of poor Anne.
U,Dagoi) be thy god,

y*!^f

Bccaufctliey lb proudly infult, we muft ihtxli inure
their ears ivi^^ hearing hovv others, whom they
more regard , are accuttomcd to ub Uu felf-fame lan-

Tilloijon.

3.

now ta.

tifed,

that the contrary neccirarily invoices a contradiction.

'^'o (lop the

invoke ;
pray to.

and cuftom; to accuftora. Jt
had anciently 'wUh before the thing prac-

We cannot demonftrate thefe things fo as to (hew

And in his wifdom hades our marriage,

liifti,

;

practice

To imply ; to comprife.

2.

HerTath^r cpugts it dangerous,

That flie fhouI<r*give her forrow fo much fway

the lilly-Uaw,

TsInu're. 'V. a. [/« and ««.] To habito make ready or willing by
tuate

DryJcn.

4duge.

or
fame-

of the involution

railed

times found about tlx Iwads of children.
ISroiun's f'ulgar Errours.

1

Leave a tinged bottom i^ involv^i
With (lench and fmoke.
Mi/tttx.
No man could mifs his way t? hjaven fijr Mtapt of
light i and yet fo vain are they as to think thfy
oblige the world by invol-vin^ it in darknefs.
Decay of ?i(ty.
In a cloud involved, he takes his (light.
Where Greeks and Trojans mix'd in njortal fight.

I.

Great conceits are

membranous covering called

ToInvo'lvb. t: a, \_iavol-vo, Latin.]
To enwrap ; to cover with any thiag circumfluent.

French;

That which is. wrapped roond any thing.

there would be as

upon with hex bill, aud fqueezes out an oily liniment,
fit for the inunakn of the feathers, and caufing their
Rojfilament* to colore.
\_ittuHdaitoH,

3.

fuor.

rjmp two glandules, which the bird catches hold

lMt;ND a'tios. n.f.

All thing; are tqixed, api caafe; bleiided by mu(iljnvilU.

To niake iuA hero- and Uimiiclf impoor taU

Tiid.

Latin.]

tual involutions.

Oiie peculiar n^lioti ta fcle<ft
itiilloif.
Ftofx all the relt, of whoi^ to b^ l/(v^k'ii.
The Ikilful bard,
StriHing the 1 hraci^n harpi itwof/n Apolla>

litigly,

[iniefitlio,

cation.

I'be power I will im/oJfc dwells in her eyes.
Sidney.

fuch a manner as invites or allures.

Inw'nction. n.f, [inmrga, inuneius, Latin.]
The aft of fmearmg or apointing.

[/sa'tiTo,

volurjiji) ; »n<l

The aft of involving or inwrapping.
2. The ftate of being entangled; compli-

A

In

in'vi4iiig.'\

perhaps

c.-Jlcd

is

1.

fend.]
catalogue of the freight of a
(hip, or of the .irticlcs and price of goods

i'ufi'i Odyjfiy.

;

Isvolu'tion. n.f.

corru|)ted from the French word e^moycz,

They forcibly cut out abortive votes, fuch as their

invUeri audencouragersmoft fsncied. KhrgCh^rki.
Honour was the aim of the gucftsr and ioterell
Stnalridgt't Strmens.
was the fcope of tl\e ivvktr.
Wines and catcs the tables grace.
But looii the kind utviitr's cheerful face,

is

Pofft

not done wiUiflgly.

whattoever aflion is performed without fuch a
thought of tiif mind, is called in/oiiintary. J.ocif.
But why, ah tell me, ah too dear
Steals down my cheek ih* involuntary tear ? Pope*

prayer to fortune, and the

[This word

I'.svoiCE. ». /.

invites.

To (hade

.t

;

The forbearance of that a^ion, conlc'iuent t^ fuck

iumcuiiiia is ijiviiled bctwccu the two 4eities.
Addifin on Italy.

To peaceful ccwulels.
Invi'ter. ». /. [from i»viie.]

a,

(i^itvil.

The whole poem is

thing pleafing.

li.

will rtrain myfell to bvcrth o^t this one invoc^-

ticn.

Tp alk

Not chofen

couimand of the mind,

Slufk.
li'ajf.

and tjiat oi iMs.'ocaticti in half a line.

Dtyd. ytrgiL

All ih'^ngs iaiiiie

yi Inu'mbrate.

Roll ill her vor«s, and her pow'r cpnfel's.

2.

ihaker.

The propofitioii of Ci.Ttius is contained in a line,

Lat.]

Involves a vaft invAuntaty ihroiig.
Who gently diraw, and ftiugglmg lofi and lefs.

My iftvociiti^n i^

And after toillooK days a (oft repofe at night.

Invi'tinclv. ad-v, [from

God doth not either pre-

Honeft and fair, and in |>it roillrcfs' name.

Shady groves, that eafy flcep imiitf.

[in-vilo,

1.

or prefence of any being.

Bteay offiily.

M wt».

\in

tiij.

Latin ; initolutitiirr, French,]
Not having the power of choice.
The gaih'ring number, as it moves alang,

The form of calling for the affiflan?c

2.

fervtd flill to Irrtjite more labourers into that work.

folNVl'TE. I', n.

INVO'l,UNTAIiy,

of calling upon in prayer.

fuppofe or inli:r.

As mjy not ol't iir^ilt, though fpirits of heav'n,

'

Ftwcb

tariiis,

'eocaiion of the name 01

'

[tHVicttthn,

Latin.]

no other caufe, as I fuppofe, but to (hew that there
is in religion no acceptable duty, which devout in-

Nor art thou fuch

'

1, /.

N V

I

Is not the name of prayer ufual to figuify even all
the feryice that ever we do unto God ? And that for

A war upon ihe Turks is more worthy than upon
any other Gentiles, though facility and hop* of
Zf.u««.
fuccefi might invL'e fome pthcr clwicf.

•or call to any

N y

I

Lat.]

iiiulititess,

Ufelelfiiefs ; unprofitablenefs.

Invu'i.nerablE-

cbtiict; npt fjontane,-

\inulilite,^t.

iniiuliieiabilis,

adj.

Lat.]

\^in'vtdnirable,

Fr.

Not to be wounded }

fcciije from wound,

oufly.
,i

Oui

r

N w

Ow Gannon's malice nmU

iot
Let Benerfick, like covered fire,

be fpent

flia!!

SbAefp.
Camharides he prefcribes both outwardly and in-

Confume away in fighs, wafte imjaardly.

Sbak.

A'aioft fh' iirvtilneraile cioiuls of heav'fl.

Nor vainly hope
Millon.

Vancfla, tliough by Pallas (aught,
%y love imiulneraUt thought,

'. With inffexibtj 6t concavity.
I'nwardness. n, /. [from /Vwari/.]

Was

fearch betray'd.

yilNWA'LL.

*. a.

[ill

S-wifi.

aixl

.

Towards the internal parts

I.

it

Down they call
Milton.

With infie^^iorj or incarvify ; concaveiy.
He ftrelclics out his arm in lign of peace, with

his breaft bending imvari.

DtydeH'i Dufrffnoy.

5. Into the mind or thoughts.
I.ool«ng inward we were Itricktli dUmb ; looking
tkiier.
umard wc fpeak and prerajl.

To intertivine

2.

the ladies loll the marking his fportfulnefs.
[r/i

.

;

Jo'cKEY.

to ii\volve.

hiinfelf.

The cafe is no fooner made than refclv'd

:

if it

be made not invirapped, but plainly and perf]iicuBaton.

oufiy.

It is doubtful whether the following examples fhould not be etirap or int'af, frotn
in and rap, rapio, Latin, to ravifli or

3.

rope,

Reflcifting ; deeply thinking.
With outward fmite their flait'r>- 1 itcelv'^!
Bui bent and invxtrdio myfelfagain

>.

tranfport.
'IMiis pearl

Prior,

Ihe gave me I do (eel't sndfce't

And though 'tis wonder that en'ivrjpt me thus.

familiar.

Vet 'tis not madnefs.

Though the lord of the liberty do pain himfdf all'
he may to yield e<jual juftice unto all, yet tan there
not but great abulcs iurlc io fo imvard and abfolute

For

i

f fuch

Sliakif^are.

holy fong

Etnurup our fancy long,
Time will run hack, and fetch the age of gold.

Sptn/er.

my imuard fricndt abhoned me,
>*. »»»' '5'- IInwro'ught. adj. [r«
Adorned with work.
4. Seated in the mind.

Millon.

1

arid

•wrought.'\

j

Princes luvc but (heir titles for their glotiest

An outward honour for an in-ward Iq\\\
And for unfeit imaginations,
Thev often led a world of refilefs caret,

Sbak,

'

Cimus, reverend lire, went footing flow.
His mantle hairy and his bonnet fcdge,
/n«'r!>»^*f with figures dim, and on the edge
Like to tlut faiiguint: flo%vcr infcriyd with woe.

i'nWard. «./.

Milton.

Any thing within, generally the bowels.

1.

7^0 In^v-rVa'the.

-v.

a.-

Bind their refplendent
beams.

The ;««KJ <//, and their fat, with incenfe'ftrew'd
On the clclt wood, and all due tiles pctlorra'd.

locks

Milton.

They eftcem them moll profiiabic, becaufe^tthc
2. Intimate;
uicd.

near

acquaintance.

JOB.

-

abaktffeare.
^

[A low word now much in

of which

I cannot tell the etymo-

logy-]
Petty, piddling work J a piece of chance
work.
2. A low mean lucrative bufy affair.
He was irow with his old tricnds, like an old
ArbutHnut.

No cheek is known to blulh, no heart 10 throb,

>,

church ojtwardi)
^.
HtMet.
I bleeJ imiMra.
;[
Siakrfptore.
Mean time the king, ihin.-n i,ni-mdly he mxmm'd,
In pomp triumphant to the town rtiurn'd.
Attended by the chiefs.
Hr;,irn'i KrightU Tale.
.

in?cri>;ij|y.

JOCO'SE.

Save when they lofc a queflion, oiijob.
Pope.
Such patents as thele never were granted with d
view of being a_;t^, for the intcrctl of a particulat
pcrfon (o ihe dama^ of the pubiick.
Sul/t.
3.

A iuddcn ftab with a fliarp inftrumeot.

To]ot. I-, a,
S

edj.

{jocofm,

Meny;

Lat:]

vvaggifh ; given to jell.
If tlie fubjeft be facred, all ludicrous turns, and
^Wo/f or comical airs, Ihould be excluded, leftyouhg
minds learn to trifle with the awful folemi;ities''of

IVam.

religion.

Joco'sELT.

adv.

[frorii

W^'ag-

jocofe.']

gifhly ; in jell; in ganie.
SpondanuS' imagines that UJjfles may polTiHy
fpeak Jfcojely, biit in truth Ulylfes never behaves.

with levity.

Broome.

Joco'sENiss. 1 «,/, [from /»r9/(.]
Joco'siTY.
gery; merriment.
3

Wag-

A

laugh there is of contempt or indignation, as
well as of mirth or Joc^^iy.
BrotjL-n^i J^ulgar Errours,

Ufed

{jocularii, Lat.]

merry; jocofe; waggi!h; not
ferioos: ufed both of men and things.

in jeft;

.

Thele _/<../,»• flanders are often as niifchievous as
tfiulc o' uceprll deiign.
Government 'f the ToKgin
The fame is a rframatick poem ; the liile is parity
ferions, and parily/ixvr/'ar.
DryJfx.
Good Vellum, uo'i't he ycc«/.ti.
Aodifotr,
«,'/
Jocula'rity.
[fromyV»/(zr.]
Met-"

riment ; difpofition to jeiK
The wits ol ihofe ages were flioif of thefi- of
ours; when men enuia maintai.T iminntaHe'fadcs,
and pcifill unalterably at the elTori! nijcnJariiy.

favtniriie of a cunning jniniihr after iitejoi is over.

In the heart; pnvatclv.
'
That which i/.t
man (hould be, the

2. In \\k parts within;

». /.

1.

I

IswAROLY. atit). [ijottL tTPward.^
1.

ufe,

Little

was an imuard of bis ; a d/ fellow wis
the duke ; aad I Icnau the caufe of his withdrawing.
Sir,

inv.-reaih'd

7bMttJon.

great quantity of tat upon their jViunn/s. Mirtimer.

7"i)Jb'cKEY. "j.ef. [from the noun.]
1. To juftle by riding againft ohc'v
2. To cheat; to trick.

JO'CULAR. adj.

with
M'li.
Nar Icfs the palmof ptacc in^vrratbes thy browi

Then I'acrihcingv laid

Addlfon.

A man that deals in horfes.
3. A cheat; a tiickifh fellow.

2.

\jHZfA'wrealh,\

To furround as wiih a wreath.

Seldom hatrthis fenfe a lingular.

A fdlovv that rides horfes in the rnce.
Thefe were the wife ancients. Who heaped up
greater honours on Pindar's jockies than on the poet

obfc^jrity.

Milton.

w.

horfes.]
1.

2. To perplex; to poitfe^itHdifEcuIty or

Sicknefs, contributing nolefs than old age to tiic
(hakii.g d'jwn this fcarfblding of the body, may dif-

lladihju

/

[from ^aci^, the diminutive ofjohn, comes Jacf^,- or, as the
Scotch, jockey, ufed for any boy, and
jiarlicularly for a boy that ritjes race-

Donne.

fee.

J'airy S^ueen.

All

[moft probably from

dull,

Turn round upon their ears, the poles.

Fairy ^een.
Jmilttipftd in foul fmoak.
This, as an amber drop inwrapt a bee,
we
that
Covering difcoreis your ijuick feul j
Klayiil your
through -ftiine fiontyour heatts'ih'jughts
'

Ta each hnvard part

a privilege.

». /.

Flemiih,

and ntnul, Jjnol,
Saxon, ahead.] Loggerhead; blockhead.
And like the world, iwn'i /nSierntnvli

Sidney.

And oveV th^m Arachne high did lilt
Her cunning web, and fpread her fublil net,

JCai walte his Htvard gall with deep dejjpight.

;

jobbe,

and "UTa/.]

To cover by inX-oiution

1.

H^ cojld not red, but did his llout heart caty

Perplei'd, ihefe matters I revolv'd, in vain;

JoBBERNtj'wL.

Sw/i,

.

placed rtot .on the outfide but

covcr the iHXX'ut'd ftrudlure mote plainly,

Your guinea's but a guinea ftill.
2. One who docs chancework.

i

within;

y Intimate; domeftick

Put on what fpeftadcs you pleale.

to' complicate.

;

TelNWRA'p. i». a.

I'sWAlfD. adj^

fhflOti invilible.

And view it through itjoiin's bill j

miltin.
Of ihicVeft covert Was, intuovea (hade'.
To IsWo'cD. 1/. a. \in and luW.J '1 o
hide in woods.
Not ufed.
He got out of the river, /wu^iw^tf/himfeiffo as

Shine imvard, and thf foul tbtt3ujh all her pttw'rs
MUiaif,
Irradiate.

A

So caft it in the foutliern feas,
Pope.

The roof

eelcftlal lighr

I. Internal ;

funds.

KaS-d'tf (bflf palls df ^rple gfalii' urifbU
Ricfi tap'rtry, ftitfen'd with iniuoven gold.

oint-

Uron^, that iT (Key' were ufcd iniveids
they would kill ; and theri:tore they work potently,
Bacon.
though outwards.

A man who fells ftock in the pablick

! .

Their crowns, in^uovc with amaranth and gold.

VtafJt, nourilh more than the outwant Hcfti.
Bttcm'i Natttrai HJfiory.
iT.ents are fo

Moxon.

The judge Ihallyo^ the bilhop bite the town.
And mighty dukes pack cards for half a crown. Fcpe.
Job's lean, n,/. An herb.
Ainj^trlh.
Jo'bber. n.f. [fromys^.]

forms part of the texture.

A fair border, wrought of fundry flowers,
Spcnfer.
Invunitn with an ivy winding trail,

il

happen, draw or Job the edge into the

To Job. 'v, k. To play the ftockjobber ;
to buy and fell as a broker.

To mix any thing in weaving, fo that

1.

.

The medicines which go lo thele magic

fluff lliould

[/« and loecrve.^

The parts of living treaiures that be more ;V-

<•.

Titter.

The work would, where a fmall irfegnlarity of
fluff.

within.

;

Let peacocke and turkey lesiyejoiiing their hex.

part. pair, imwo've, imtiSven or intuearued.

^ rmpeanb, Saxon.

1

L'E/lrange.

_

To drive in a (harp inrfrument.

2.

Shah.

Sfcnjirr on Ireland.

Tnwards. J

of the fore.

In-

very much unto the prince and Claudio.
To ToIsIn
we' AVE. preter. imuove or itiwea'ved,

•tv/fi!.']

inclof? or fortify with i wall.
Three fuch towns in thofe places with the gar-'
liront, would be (a augmented as they would be able
with little CO inwail tbcmlelves ftrongly.

tti^t^KO.

As an afs with a galled back was feeding in a
meadow, a raven pitclied upon him, and htjoiiing

timacy; familiarity.
You know, my invjardnefs and love

SearehJng in books Ibr wil^iom's aK],
in tlie ver)'

mcnt.

Arbutbnot.

•wardly.

To be iKVJrlxeriiMe in ''•ofc bright irnis^
That mortal dint none can relift.

J o c
To ftrike fuddenly with a Iharp inltrn-

1

BrO'Zvn':: I'^t/.'gur Errotli i.

JO'CUND. adj. [jocuifdus, Lat.]

Meriiy

gfly; airy; livciy.
There's comfort yet i then be thou yoirm-a'.
Sb.ikefpeette,

'^ojocimd health, tliiif Denmatk drinks to-id»y,
But the great cannon to ihit clouds ihall tell. Shakrjp.
They on thcii inirih and dance
Intent, with jocund mufic'k diarm his ear. Milton.

6 4 a

Alexis

J O I

J O I
league
unite
in
or marriage.
To
3.

'

Al«i» rtiuo'il h'u felIow.rwji«,
Their rural fpotts, tnijociinJAtiifr*.
Jo'ciTNDi.Y. adv. [from jocund.]

Whom not our oracles, nor heav'n, nor fate,

Mer-

Nor frcqjcnt prodigies permit to join

With any native of the Aufooian line.
Dryjeit's Mn.

To da(h together

4.

To

was pretty well

pleafed while

I

expefted,

Ifaiah.

6.

anddiforder; confufed ;
ance.

Know your own int'relt. Sir, where'er you lead.
Vryden't Aureng.

7« Join. t. n.
To grow to ; to adhere; to becontiguous.
1
Juftus's houfe joined hard to the fynagogue.

2.

And murd'ring plays, which they mifcall reviving.
[from the verb.]

A

As a leopard was valuing himfelf upon his pattycolouted (kin, a fox gave him a jog, and whifpered.
that the beauty of the mind was above that of a
L^BJirange.
painted outfide.
Nick found the means to (lip a note into Lewis's

imprcfs a motion on
Clamiillr's Sctf/n.

Jo'ccER. n. /. [from Jog.]
moves heavily and dully.

1/.

«r.

4.

To ]o}H, V. a. [joifidre, Fr.J
I. To add one' to another in contiguity.
Woe unto them <.\xit join houfe lo houle, thai lay

!>l>aliefpeare

[from joiu.] One whofe
trade is to make utenfik of wood comn. f.

The people wherewith you plant ought to be
B.icon's E.jfays,
imiths, carpenters, and joiners.
It is counted good wurkmaufhip in a joiner to
,

bear his hand curiouOy even.

Moxun's Aleeb. Excrci/es.
Jo'iNERY. n.f. [fromy«;»(T.]
yuincy is an art whereby fcveral pieces of wo«d
.ire

fo fitted

and joined together by tfrait lines,
any bcvil, that they Oiall I'eem

fquaies, miters, or

one entire piece.

Joint,

k.

f.

Exek,

;

Articulation of limbs; junfture of moveable bones in animal bodies.
Dropfies and adbmas, mi joint racking rheums.
Milton.
1 felt the fame pain in the (arm joint.

to combine.

In this (aci Iiy of lepeaiing and joining lOEcther iis z.
i«leas,

Moxon.

[junSlura,'[jM.jolr;ture,Yt.'\

iVfi, iv. g,

To couple

the mind has great power.

Loctt,

Dryden,
3..

Tetnfle.

Hinge; junftureswhi ch admit motion of
the parts.

To join together in confederacy.

Not

ufed.

The times
Made frieruJsof them, jointing their force 'galnft
Cifar.
Sbaicfpeare.
4.

Contirm'd by mutual joinder of your bands.

1 he wall wnsjeintd together unto the lialf.

2.

Pierc'd through the yielding planks oi jointed wood.

Locke.

Ifa. Iviii.

Join them one to another into one (^ick.

Againll the (teed he threw

His forceful fpear, which hilBngas it flew,

Jo'iNDER. a./. [from_/o/«.] Conjiinftion;
joining.
Not ufed.

A contra^ and eternal bond of love,

Ray on the Creation.,

To form many parts into one.

2..

Any other may join with him that is injured,

I.

field to (icld.

To J,oiNT. 'V. a. [from the noun.]
I. To form in articulations..
The 6ngcrs are jointed together for motion, and
fiirnilhed with feveral mufdes.

and allift him in iccovering fatisfaOirn.

MHion.

In a war carried on by the jtini torce of fo many
AJJifon,
nations, France could fend troops-

To become confederate.

Ev'n you yourfelf
jfoin with the rcll ; you are armed againfl mt;
Dryden.

Dtrham.
n. /,

Pope.

Combined; afting together in concertv

3.

On your joint vigour now.

pafted.

A jobnafple is a good rclilhed (harp apple the
Spring following, when moft ether fruit is fpeni ; ihcs
are (it for the C)der plantations.
Alorthnet.

Donne,

To

Jo'iNER.

who (hould furvive.

Pride then was not; nor arts, that pride to aidj
Man walk'd witli beaftyWw/ tenant of the (hade.

Exodus.
our enemies, and fight againd us.
Let us m.ike peace with him, before be join with
1 Mac.
Alexander againf) us.

In the head of man, the bafe of the brain is parallel to the horizon; by which there is lefs dungcr
of the two brains joggling, or flipping out of their

Jo'hn APPLE,

Joint tenants of the woild,

My hold of this new kingdom all depends.

When there falleth out any war, they join unto

To fhake.

place.

jointheirs ox coheirs .jointheirrjfes or coheireffei.
The fun and man did (trivc.

to clalh.

unite within marriage, or any other
league.
Should we agaiii break thy commandments, and
Exra,
join in affinity wiih the people ?

3.

Drjjtn.

SffJo'cGLE.

it is not fo to all mankind ; but is the joint property^
Locke.
of this country, or this pari(h.
2. United in the fame polTeflion: as we fay,

Sbalteffieiire.

Cne who

They, with their l'illow_/i^g<T» of the plough.

Than > joint burthen laid upon us all. Shakifpeare,
Though it be common in rcfpeft of fomc men,

Here's the earl of Wiltlhire's blood.

A letter when I am inditing,
Comes Cupid and gives me '^jog.

How that which penetrates all bodies without the

Shared among many.

Whom 1 cncounter'd, as the battlesyo/'/i'i/.

hands, which Lewis as Oily put into John's pocket,
with a pinch or ^jog to warn him what he was about.
Aitutbmit.

And I lUI all the paper with wiiting
Of nothing but fweei Molly Mog.
Siiifi.
i, A rub; a fmall flop; an irregularity of
motion.

;

Sbakeffeare,

Joint, adj'.

ABs.

Look you, alt you that kifs my lady Peace at
home, that our armies _;u'n not in a hot day.
SbaUcff. Henry IV.

Drydtti.

pulh; a flight (hake; a fudden interruption by a pulh or lliake; a hint
give» by a pulh.

To clofe

of difturb-

Entertain no more of it,.

We jointly vow to join no other head.

Thus they jcg on, ftill tricking, never thriving.

That ever I was born lo.fe» it right.
1.

To aft in concert with.

L'EJIratigc.

is inconceiveable.

Dryden.

I Coj-.

8.

full

The time is cut ofjoint, oh curTed fpight

Be fctit&ly joined together in the fame mind.

A merry heart goes all the day,

any,

Herlert.
one of my arms and legs put out ofjoint.
Thrown into confufion
7. 0»/ o/" Joint.

Our bed notes are treafon to his fame,

To unite in concord.

7.

Grn. xiiii. 25;

My head and whole body was fore hurt, and alfo

To unite in one aft.

Tiiy tuneful voice with numbers /o(>.
Thy words will more prevail than mine.

And merrily heat the ftile-a,

leafV jog or obliruflion, (hould

Alls.

Thou (halt not be joined with them in burial.

Sbttkefp.

Shaie/fi. If'itttei'i Tale.
Away tliey trotted together: but as they were
joking on, the wolf fpy'd a bare place about the

H'vjifi.
_

Dryden.

Your fad tires in a mile-a.

falls out of your

Oii/ff^JoiKT. Luxated; flipped from
the focket, or correfpoadcnt part where
it naturally moves.

6.

Jiin-'d with the loud applauC: of publick voice.

That he could never die while he could move
So hung his deiliny, never to rot
While he might &u\jc,g on and keep his trot. Milton.
2. To travel idly and heavily.
Jog on, jog on the foot-path way.

it

Jacob's thigh was out of joint.

Go near, and /»'« thyfelf to his chariot.

Here lieth one, who did mod truly prove

1.

I

7 o alTociate.

5.

The door is open. Sir, there lies good way,
You may \x jogging while your boots are green.

n. /.

In bringing a joial of meat,

They (hould wirh refolule minds endure, until
they might yo/» battle with iheir enemies. Knoitet.

fmall (hocks like thofe of a low trot.

Jog.

One of the limbs of an animal cut up by
the butcher.

I Sam. iv. 1.

it

tfog's neck.

5.

haiid.

When they joined battle, Ifi^l was fmitten.

till

To Jog. i>. ».
1. To move by fuccuflation ; to move with

A knot or commifltire in a plant.

I

my f leafing (lumber, and

Norris.
was but a dream.
1 knew
Sodden \jogg'd Uljffcs, who w»s laid
Pfi'i OJ;iJfty.
Faft by my tide.

Moxon,
4.

lium.

And fteet'd him gently toward the fquire. Hudibrps.
I

Strait lines, in joiners language, ii called a /s/ttf,

that is, two pieces of wood are Oioi, that is, plained.

though it may
likewife mean fight, as, committere pra:-

Dtmr.
Yonder well-favour'd youth ?
This faiJ, htjigg'dh'K good fteed nigher,

[In joinery ; jointe, Fr.]

3.

to collide ; to en-

array, committcre excrcitus,

you fee

fruition jogged mt out of

;

counter; this fenfe is to be found in
the phrafe to join battle, in wliich, hattle
fecms not to ifignify fight, but troops in

a. [fchockfit, Dutch.]
pu(h J to (hake by a fudden Smpulfe ; to
give notice by a fudden pufli.
Now leaps he upright, jugs me and cries, Do

Ta JOG. v.

tacbjoi.iH that as they might, to avoid the weather,
pull it up clofe when they lilted; fo when they
would, they might remain as difcovered and openSidney.
lighted as on horieback.

One only daughter ncirs my crown and (lite.

Prior.

rily; gaily.
He has no power of himfelf to leave it; but he is
ruined jocttitJty and pleafantly, and' dairtned accordSouth.
ing to his heart's defire.

J o r
Ths coich, the cover whereof was jnade^ with

To divide a joint

;

to cut or quarter into

joints.

He joints the neck

;

and with a ftrokc fo ftrong

The helm fliesoff; and bears the head along. Dryden.
Full of
Jo'iNTED. ad/, [from joint.]
,joints, knot.t, or commifTures.
Three cubits high
The/o.-K.'f'/' herbage (hoots.

Jo'iNTER. n.f.

\itom joint.]

A fort of

plane.

The jointer is fomewhat longer than the (hrsplane, and hath its fole perfcflly ftrait : its otfice it
to follow the fore plane, and (lioot an edge pcrfeftly
Moxon.
ftrait, when a joint is to be (liot.

Jo'iNTLY. adv. [from joint.]
I. Together; not fcprately.
began a combat firit with him particularly,
I
Sidney.
and after his death with the others yMBr/y.
Becaufc all that are of the church cannot jointty
and cqU'illy work; the firft thing in polity rt'i^iircd
Hookrr.
is a dltt'crcacc of perf»ns in the church.
The prince told hiro he could lay noclaim to his
patilude, bat dcfircd Uiey might go to the altar
togeilier.

JOL

JOrV

lot

and jointly return their thanks to whom
Addifon,
onljr it was due>

How&e'er their hearts are fever'd iii religion, their
heads are both one
they mayyo/Zhoms together.

Fit on l\\a,joltE!ad, tliou can'ft not read !

2, In a ftate of union or co-operation.
His name a great exan^*Ie fHnds, to Ihew
How ftrangcly high endWvours may be bleft,
Diyden.
Where piety and valour ja'iittly go.

Shakefpeare.
The tortoifes envied the eafinefs of the frogs, 'till
they faw them jolled to pieces and devoured for want
of a buckler.
L'EJirange.

Had man been a dwarf, he had fcarce been a rca-

ftigettiei',

JoiKTRESs,

Jo'llily. ad-v. [from JoHj.l

One

[from jointurf.l
who holds any thing in jointure.
ti.

f.

The goodly cmprefs,yu///Vy inclin'd.

Th* imperial jointrejt of this warlike ftate,
We've taken now to wife.
Sbaktffeare's H-mht.
JolNTSTooL. ». /. [7«/'»/ and _/?so/.] A
ftool made not me ely by infertion of the
•feet, but by infert ng one part in another.

Is to the welcome bearer wond'rous kind.

Jo'lliment.

Sb^kefpiare.

Could that be eternal which they had feen a rude
trunk, and perhaps the other piece of it a joirjjiool
Hiutb,

He ufed to lay chain and ja'uiijloolt in their way,
that they might break nofes by falling.

Eftate

2.

I.

Pope's Dune.
The copper-pot can boil milk, heat porridge, hold
fmall-bcer, or, in cafeof neceffity, ferve for n jorden.
Sivift.

Joseph's f/tntvr'/, »./. A plant. Ainfivorih.
To]o'iTi.i.'v. a. {jouJler,Yt.'\ Tojuftle;
to ru(h agsinft.

Jot. w./. [i^Ta.J
leaft

Suitib.

'

To pluck it out with pincers fiery hot,

Dennii.

Plump

U

there no hopes ? aUs.'^^then bring they&tf/. Popf.
Red-fpeckled irouts, the falmon's filver/o/<-,
The jointed lobfter, and unfcaly foalc. Cay'i Tr/v/a.

potent.

red, yet, upon the touch,

it

ftiall fill

his

hand only

with ftcnch and foulnefs.

To JULT.

"v. »i

author, and- yet acquire not one jot of knowledge.

Loci(.
The final eveat will not be ontjst lefs the confequencc of our own choice and adiions, for God's hovi.ig from all eternity forefecii and determined what
that event ftiall be.

To (hake as a carriage on rough
little

uneveonefs of the ground will caufe
hinder the morion

•

of its fails.
H'tlii'is.
Violent motion, as jolting in a coach, may be
ufed in this cafe.
Arbuthnot on Diet.
A coach and fix horfes is the utmoft exercifc you
can bear, and how glad would you be, if it could
waft you in the air tozvo'iijollirg
S-u-ifi.

To Jolt. -v. a.

To (liake one as a carriage

does.

Jolt. ». /. [from the verb.] Shock ;

violent agit.ttion.
The Tymptoms are, bloody water upon a fudden

Ariuiinol on Diet.
The fira jolt had like to have Ihaken me out) but
afterwards the motion was eafy.
.Sivift.

jolt or viijlcnt motion,

know

not whence
derived.] A great head; a dolt ; a blockhead.
fl

-

The fixed ftars are aftrologically differenced by.
the planets, and are efteemed m.irtial or joviai,
according to the colours whereby they anfwtr thcl't
planets.
Broivn's f'ulgar Erroun,

South.

ground.
Every

Rogers,

JO'VIAL. itdj. [jcnial, Yr.jcvialis, Lat. J
I. Under the influence of Jupiter.

[I know not whence de-

fiich a jolting of the chariot as to

L'EJlrangu

A man may read the difcourfcs of a very rational

;

To Jo'lthead. ». /

the head againft any thing ; to dafh
with violcQce.

•

like one in high health.
He catches at an apple of Sodom, which though it

may entertain his eye with a florid, jolly white and

!

!

Againft Heav'n *s hani^, or will ; nor bateone/s/
Of heat or hope ; but ttill bear up and rteer
Ri^lit onwards.
Miltorr.,
You might, with cvtry jot as much juftice, hang
me up becaufe I'm old, as beat mc becaufe I'm im-:

This gentle knight, infpir'd \>i jolly May,
Forfook his eafy couch at early day.
Drydrn,
A fhepherd now along the plain he roves.
And With his jolly pipe delights the groves.
Prior.
2.

Shake/pi

argue not

1

Dryd. fuvtx.

rived.]

The doctor call'd, declares all help too late:
Mercy cries ll^lluo, myrcy on my foul

Sbakc/pf

ThTs bond doth give thee here no jot of blood

The words exprefsly are a pound of flclh.

Milton.

«. The face or cheek.
It is feldom ufed
but in the phrafe eieei b^jolc.
Follow n.iy, I'll go with thee cheek hyjole. Shak.
And by liim in another hole,
AfBit'ei' Ralpho, cheek by /o/f.
Hudibras.
Your wan complexion, and your thin /o/rr, father.
Drydtn.
A man, who has digtfted all the fathers, lets a
pure Ef/glti>i divine gp cbcsk \>yjoU with him.
Callier on i^ride.
1. Thehca-lofa fWh.
A falmoi.'j belly, Helluo, was ihy fale :

Siakejf.
This nor hurts him nor profits you a/or;
Forbear it therefoie ; give your caufe to Heav'n.

All try griefs fo this tn jolly,
Nought to fad as melancholy.
Burton.
Ev'n ghofts had leam'd to groan ;'
But free from puniOiment, as free from fin.
The fhades liv'dyV/y, and without a king.

/ellow.

Thou mad'ft thy (irft appearance in the world like

cheerful; lively;

While the jolty hours lead on propitious May.

to

be merry in words and anions.
Our neighbours tell rac oft, mjoiiftg talk.
Of alhes, leather, oat-me.il, bran, and chalk. Cay,
Jo'itER. »./. [fromyVi^.j Ajcfterja merry

Fa. ^ueen.
Co, Eros, fend his treafure after, do it:
Detain no jot, I charge thee.
Shakefp.
Lei me not ftay ijot from dinner ; go, get it ready;.

O nightingale

IVattt.

tha

That loon in him was left no one corrupt jot.

Thou with frclh hope the lover's heart do'ft fill.

Indofe whole towns in walls, 'tis all 2 joke !
Jneiorable death Hiall level all.
Pipe.
Why fliould publick mockery in print, or a merry
jckr upon a ftage, be a beitertcftoftruth than pub;

airy;

A

point; a tittle;
quantity affignab'e.

As fuperfluotis ftefh did rot.
Amendment ready Itill at hand did wait.

jovial.
Like a jolly troop of huntfmen, come
Sbakeff ears' s Kiiig fihrt.
Our lofty Englifti.

Link towns to towns with avenuesof oak,

To jeft

Gay; metry;

Shakefpj,

This China jorden let the chief o'ercome

JCLLY. ndj. [joli, Yt.jcvialis, Lat ]

Tf Joist, -v. a. [from the noun.] To fit
in the fmaller beams of a flooring.
JOKE. ». / [ jocm, Lat.] A jeft ; fomething not ferious.

l)eat

ftea? like a loach.

dropping in the midtt'of mirth anijo/i'iiy.
Addi/oH's Spectator.

Pcpe.

becaufeof the biittlenel's.
Murtimtr'j Hujbandry.
The kettle to the top was hoil^.
And there ftood fattened 10 a piji.
Swift.

[itovnjole, the head.]

leak in your chimney ; and.your chamberlye breeds

BryJ: j^n.

.

Joist. «./. [from joiudre, Fr.J The fecondary beam of a floor.
Same wood is not good to ufe for beams or ji'Jlsj

7» JoLL.-v. a,

They will allow us ne'er a jorden, and then we

My heart was filled with melancholy to fee feveral

Or, in a jaintuTf, vanjth frotti the heir,

A pot.-

taculum.^

With branches we the fanes adorn, and waftc^
la jollity the day oidain'd to be the lail.

What's property ? You fee it alter.
Or, in a monjage, prove a lawyer's fliare,

iiry jokrr, buffoon, or jack pudding.
Joi. E. n./. [gtttulf. Ft. crol. Saxon.]

Low bent and blulhing inward ; nor jon^uilles
Of potent fragrance.
Thomjon'i Spring-.'
Jo'RDEN. n.f. [:^07c,Jiercus, and ben, receji-

Merriment; fcftivity.

as when (he table is made the fnare.

Ra/eigb's UiJloTy of lb« World.
There's a civil qucDion us'd of late.
Where lies my joiniurt, where your own eftate ?

MilUr.

Nor gradual bloona is wanting.
Nor hyacinths of pureft virgin white,

Replenifli, not inglorioully at home.

Good men arc never fo furpril'ed as in the midll
of \y\t\T jollities, nor fo fatally overiuken anJ ciuglit

the fourth's time, and held het joiiilure from all the
carls of Defmond fince (hen.

Ta JoK E. ti. n. [j'oeer, Lat. ]

fccnt.

With joyance bring her, and withyo///ry. Speftf^r.
There [hall thefe pairs of faithful lovers be
Wedded, with Thefeus, all in jollity. Sbakefpeare.
The braaen throat of war had ceas'd to roar;
All now was turn'd tojUiity and game.
Mihon.
To liniury and riot, feaft and dance.

Thejsinlurf that your king mull make,
With her dowVy (liall be coimterpois'd.
Sbakefp.
The oU countcfs of Defmond, who lived in
1589, and many years fince, was married in Edward

lick perfccutions ?

greatly efteemed for their ftrong fweet

Obfclete.

that quarrel only for him, who was only worthy to
Sidttty,
enter into it.

hu (band's deceafe.

Dfydtn

JoNciy i'lle. »./. {jonquilie,\'T.'] A fpecies
of daffodil. T he flowers of this plant are

Mirth;

[i'tom JoJ/y .]

"^- [f'O'^J'^b-]

on a wife to be enjoyed after her

fettled

blood enough to fopply his brain with fpirits ; or he
muft have had a fmall head, and fo there would not
have been brain enough for his bufinefs.
Greta,

Jo'llitv.
.?
1. Gaiety; elevation of fpirit.
He with a proud ja/lity commanded him to leave

Arbuthnot.

JO'INTURE. v.f. {jointure, Fr.]

/l

Dry. Ptr.

Matter of mirth enough, though tircre were none,
She could devifc, and thoufand ways invent
To feed her foolilh humour, and \h\r\joiiimfKt.
Fit. ii^rn.

He rides tJic wild T.iare wiih the boys, an*! j-mps
upon yVw.y?3c/j, and wears his boot \*cry fmoolh like
unto the fign of the leg.

>t.

merriment ; gaiety.

fonable creature ; for he muft then have either had 3 jolthead, and fo there would not have been body and

In a difpofi-

tion to noify mirth.

Our queen,

-,.

Shakejf,

:

z.

Gay airy merry.
My lord, fltck o'er your tugged looks,
;

;

.

Be brigljt and yoT/;,?/ 'moos your guefts..

Sbnkefp.

Onxjcvial ftar reign 'd at his birth.
SiakeJ/K
Some men, of an ill and melancholy nature, incline (he comp.iny, into which they come, to be fad(
and ill-difpofcd ; and contrariwife, others of jovial
nature difjiofe l!ic company to be merry and cheerful.
Uaco't's Natural Ill/lory,
His odes art fome of them panegyrical, others
moral, the reft jovial or bacchanalian.
Drydta.
Perhaps the jeft that charm 'd the fprightiy crowd,
:i

And made xhe. jovial table laugh io loud,
'i'o fomc falfc

notion ow'd its poor pietcnce.

Jo'viAi.LY. adv. [from jovial. \

PrioiK

Merrily t,„

gaily.
J'j'vi.ivLNEss. «./, \itomji:viai.'\

Gaiety';

merriment.
Jo'u ISA N c E. »./. \rejouiffancc , Fr.] Jollity^
iriertimcnt;

feftivity,

Obfolete.
Colin,

'

JOT

J o u
ColtOi mjE dear, when (hall it pleifc tliee Gog,
'•4it thou wert «-ont, fongs of (om^ joulj'aru-f f

:

Thy mufc loo long rtuinberelh in forrawmg*
Lulled allccp (hroujh love's mifgovcroance. Sj>t>tfer.

Jo'cRNEYWORK,

'Jo'u8.NAL. adj. \j(>:irnaU, Ft. ghraale, ItaDaily ; quocidian.
Out of uie.
lian.]

and

Tofhtch up fale and fcqucftration ?
HuJfSras,
Her family (he was forced to hiro out at journey^vork to her neighbours,
Arhulhnot'i John Bull.
Joust, n.f. \_joitJi, Fr.] Tilt; tourna-

ment; mock

It

Tb]ovst. V. a.

an account kept of daily ttanf-

Time has dtftroyed two nobleyi>w«a/t of the na-

h(nul;r,

Arbuibnot.

Any paper publiflied daily.

Jo'uRNALisT, «.y. [froraya«r«a/.] A writer
of journals.

JOURNEY, n.f. [joumee.Tt.]
When Duncan is afleep,
IVhereto the rather (hall this day's hardyo«r«*)i
Soundly invite hiro,
Siaie/feare'i Macbtth,

jolter.-\

Plenty of fifli is vented to the fifli-drivers, whom
we call joti'iers.
Careiv,

MUien-

Hath finifhed half hisjiiuriuy.

diilinguifhed from a }OY. ti.f.

by land
voyage or travel by fea.

Rcgirs.

to it.

He for the promis'dyo»/-»y) bids prepare
The fmoolh-hair'd horfes and the rapid car.
•^3. Paffage from place to place.
'

Pope.

ation of the prelent, or alTured approaching poireffion

of a good.

2 ^dr.
The lighlfome pafTlon oi joy was net that trivial,

to falvation.

a long yo«r»y from the upper rewould float up and down a good while, Uuiutl.

vanilhing, fuperlicial thing, that only gilds the ap.
prehenfion, and plays upon the lurface of the fuul.

Liglit of the world, the ruierof ihe year.
'

Through every didant climate own,
That in fair Albion thou haft feen

Souti,

Gaiety ; merriment ; feftivity.
The roofs with /o;' refound;
And Hyinen, io Hymen, rungaround.
3. Happinefs ; felicity.

The grcalcft prince, the brighleft queen.
Prior.
[from the noun,]
To
travel; to pa fs from place to place.

Gentlemen of good efteem
Are jcurnrying to falule the emperor.

-Drydtn.

Sbakeffcare,

Lordlfaid, I will give it )0U*
Numbers,
Since fuch love's natural ilation is, may ftill
love.defccnd, andycwrr;^' down the hill;
H»t pantingaftergrouing^ beauties, fo

I

wiih you all thcyy thut you can wi(h,

m

Over the tent a cloud.
Shall reft by day, a fiery gleam by night.

:

I

drink to the generaly'yi of the whole tabiCi

Sbnk\

Almeyda I'milingcame,
Attended with a train ol all her r.ict.

Whom in the rage of empire I h.ij murder'd;
BiU now, no longer foes, they gave mzjoy
()i

my new conquett.

and,/o|' her thoughts with the oonverfatioo

For angry Neptune rouj'd the raging main.

their uccupa'.ioa with another by the year.
Cotcri.
Flaveis have fc ftruited and bellowed, ili,it 1 have
fhoHglit fomeof N4late!sy'<i»r»r>uie» had imiJcmen,
and not made them well.
i'hakefptttre't Hawiet.

Dryden.

Now our joy.
Although our lalt, yet not our leaft young love,
What fay you
Shukefptare't King. Le.w.

I intend 10 work for the court m)felf, and will
im/c joui niyituit uuder tne to.luriiifli the reft nf the

AdJij'jN.

[f'rom the noun,]
1 o rejoice; to he glad; to exult.
Sometimes 1 j^y, when ^lad occalion fitJ)
And malk-in mirth like to 1 comedy
Soon alter, when my joyio forrow flits,

Let us hence.

And let \xTJoy her ravtn-coliMir'J love.
^bak. Th, Andr.
I might haveliv'd, andyVy'^/immoreilMifs,
Yet willingly chofe rather death with thee. MIUkk.

Th' Ufurperyi}.'iy not long
His ill-got crown.

Drydtn's Spawjb Piyar.
n. f,
[jmaiit,
olti
French.]
Gaiety ; feftivity. Obfolete.
Bring home with you the glor^' of her gain
With /y.iwf,- bring iicr, and wii'h jollitv.
Sptnfer,

Joy'ance,

'there him rclis in riotous fuffifan'ce,

Of all h IS giadful nefs and ki nglv jr.yanct,
]o'Ytvi..adJ. [yy and /»//.]
1. Full of joy; gJad ; exulting.

C3iii:ot/'!;', until 1

Sfetrfr.

They blelTed the king, and went unto their teirts
joyful and glad of heart.

i

My foul (hall be joyful in my God.

Kings.

Ifa, Ui, 10.

Sometimes it has of before the caufc of

2.

Six brave companions from each (hip we loll:
With fails ouifpread we fly th' unequal ftrifc.

Sad for their lofs, but joyful yourlile. Pcpe's Ody^.

gladly.
If we no more meet till we meet in hcav'n,
ThinjayfiMy, my noble lord of Bedford,

And my kind kinfmen, wariiours all, adieu. Shak,
Never did men mote joy/u'ly obey,
Or fooner undeiftood the lign to fiie
With fuch alacrity they bore away.

palTagcs to a

Jo'YFULKtss. w./.

I.

Glad-

Void of joy;

fceling.no pleafure.
A little joy enjoys the queen thereof;
fori amlhe,andaltogethcr>y,/». i'A.aiff/J,. R. III.

With dowij-cart eyes ibejoylefs viitor lat,
Revolving in his altei 'd foul

The various turns of chance below
And r.owi and their a figh he ftolt.
And tears begaii to tkjw. Dryd. Alex.tnd.-r' 1 Feaft,

Sptnf&.

:

be relblw'd

VI

IVake.

[{torn joyful,]

nefi ; joy,
Thott Icrvedft not the Lord thy God with jcyfulnfs, andwith gladnefs of heart, lor the abundance of
all thing!-.
De^t.
Jo'yless. i»^'. [fiom joy,]

Where cur right vaiiaat father is become.
Sij,,ke/p. II.

Dryden.

The good Chfiftian confiders pains only as nc-

;

I

to

have happy poffeffion of.

71,

make my vuks a Iragedy.

Pope,

etljoy ;,

long impatiently expefted it.

A term of fomlnefs.

I .will

To

glorious immoitalily; that,
through this dark fcene of fancied horror, fees a

And little- wanted, bnt in TSiiDi their wilhcs all em-

To Jor. 1;

French.]

crown and a throne, a.Td cverlafting bielVmgs prepared
for h\m, joyfully receives his fummons, as he has

.'

h.nt wrought wiili

now by Itatutc 10 be extended to Ihofe.likcwifc that coiivcnant lu work in
others by the day, ilioujh

[fouir de,

3.

H»r heav'uly form beheld, all wifli'.d \xxjoy;

;

of her be-

Sid»a,

My foul W3S jy'd in vain;

As if to praife them all the ftatcs ftood by.

Lovely herfelf, and lovely by her fide,
A bevy of bright nympths, with Ibbcr grace,
Cameglitt'ring like a tbr, andtook her place:

4.

;

loved lifter.

cc(rary

ploy.

Prhr,

to exhilcrate.
She went to Pamela, meaning to delight her eyes

Dryden' s Din SebaJiUn,

The bride,

MUton'i Parad'ije Lojl,
Save wl'.cn i\\ty jommy.
Having heated his baiy by jcitrneyhig, lic tuuk
cold uj-'on the ground,
H'fftnitin's Surgery,

Jo'uRNEYMAN. It,/, [Jcumce, a day's work,
Fr. and mail.] A.hired workman a work-

Shaieff,

Come, love and health to all;
Then I'll fit down give me fome xvine

My

1 (hall ebb on wiih them who homeward go. Donne.
1 haveyetfr/r^frf this morning, and it is now the
heal of the day ; therefore your.lordlliip's difcoiirfcs
lad need comcnt my ears very well, to make ihem
iutreat
Bacon,
y eyes to keep open.

To gladden

Jo'yfully. adv. [fromyy/a/.] NVithjtiy ;

My lord Baflanio, and my gentle latiy,

W« arc journiylng unto the place, of which the

I

To joy the friend, or grapple with the foe,
2.

joy.

2.

fTo Jp'uRNEY. 1;. n.

iMtion.

in him;

even fo much,
thaty'y could not Ihcw itkifmodell enough without a
badge of bitternefs.
Sbukejp,
There fhould not be fuch heavinefs in their ucftruftion, as (hall be joy over them that arc perfuaded

Some, having

tihuM jourtiits run

Jjicke.

There appears much joy

to entertain kindly.
;
Like us they love or hate, like-usthey know

_

[yy?, Fr.^is/a, Italian,]

cident; gladnefs ; exultation.
ysy is a delight of the mind, from the confider-

In general ye«r»r)'-batcd and brought low. Shakeff>.
Before the light of the gofpel, mankind travelled
like people in the dark, without any certain profpe^
of the end of their journey, or of the way that led

To congratulate

1.

The paffion produced by any happy ac-

1.

So are the horfes of the enemy,

a»an hired by the day.
They were caiki jour "rymen

ItTillon.

n, f. [perhaps corrupted from
as making a hideous noife after

the game, whom the reft of the pack
follow as their leader.]
The name of a
hunting dog or beagle.
See him draw his feeble legs about,
Like hounds ill-coupled yoTt'/er lugs him f^il!
Through hedges, ditches, and through all this ill.
Dryden
Jo'wTER. n.f, [perhaps corrupted from

Scarce. the fun

Still as thou da'ft thy

Denban.

To Jot. t-. a.

:

The travel of a day.

;

To run in

yaufltd in Afpramont or Montalban.

Jo'wLER.

IVoltm.

fv 'hou.

In what he gives to thee, this paradife.
And thy fair Eve,
Milton's Paradife Lejff.
Their cheariul age with honour youth attends,
yoy'd that from kafure's ilav'ry they are free,
f

Milim'i Paradife LoJl.

[jouftd; Fr.]

All who fince

tluyward oil Ediv. VI.

2. Travel

With greater triumph yer return agam.

And conquer his own jattice wuh his loye.

now written

the tilt.

adions.
Edward kept a mod judicious journal oC all the
principaj paQages of the affairs of his edate.

is

^ay.

Bafes, and tinfcl trappings gorgeous knights

At joujl and tournament.

lian.]

{;ions,

fight.

No man imparleth hi» joys to his friend. But he
joyelh the more; and uo man impartcth hisgrieli,
but he grieveth the left,
Baeon'i
Well then, my foul, jry in the midft of pain
;
Thy Chrift that conquer'd hell, (hall from abo**

lefs properly^w/?.

Jo'uRNAL, »i_/I \journal, Fr. giornale, Ita-

1

w^

Fuirf.

Might cut out journeyu'erk for thee i

Fa. Siluan.
Ere twice the fun has made his yt>ar»a/ greeting
To th' under generation, you fhall iind
Your fafcty manilet)«d. SSaifJ^. Mea.for Mtafurt.
Stick to yourywrAo/courfe ; the breach of cuftom
Hhakefprart's Cymbrlim.
Is breach of all.

vigation of Hanno and. of Haisilcar.

Exceeding the more joyed we for the joy o(
Titus, becauTo hii fpjrit
rcfrcfhed by yn.

» Cor. vti. IJ.
They laugh, we weep ; thev/y( while w« bmeat<

And fet thee a talk with fubornation,

Whim from liic'ixjnraaJ labours they did reft.

;

Krench,

Did no committee lit where he

Kit liery face in billows of the Weil,
And his faint Heeds wuer'du) ocean deep.

i.

\joumec,

». /.

Work performed for liire

luark.']

Me will joy oTcr thee with finginj. Zepb. m. %1I will rejoice in the l^rd, I WMjoy in the Goioi
my falvation.
Hai.uuti.

work done by the day.

Mew 'gan the golden Fhcebui for to Aecp

J. A diary

j'of'r

Saj« Tro( to Bull, this old roguewill take the ^ufinef» into his hands
we mull ftarve or turn ji,urnty.
men to old Lewis Baboon. Arbulhnot't John Bull.

z.

It has foraetimes cf before the object.

R E

I

I

fe looks and Ungiiidies, and leaves his rell;
Forfjkes his I'ood, ar:d pining for the lapi,
grove, aad ff urns the growing gr.ifs.
tt ioyJi/'
' o( the
f*-^
• ^
Drju/tn.

Fairfax,

In midft of all the dome Misfortune fat,
.And gloomy Diiconteni, and fell Debate,

KJoyUfi, difinal, black, and forrowful ilTue :
.T

:

Of hirlots, loyelefs.yVj/f/s, unendear'd,
MUtm's Faradijt LoJI.
Gifual fruition.
The pnre in heart (hall fee God and it any otluri
l»uld fo invade this their indofure, as to take heaven
by violence, itfurely would be a vzrjjoylifs poffeffion.
Decay of Fitly,
He forgets his deep, arJ loaths his food.
That youth, and health, and wir arcy^/.'^to bim.

Befide the folary IrU, which God (heweth unto
Noah, there is another lunary, whole efficient is the

When both bows appeared more diftin£^,

J.

And that my falfer friend did no lefs/yjij deem.

4..

The circle roand the pupil of the eye.
The flower-de-luce.

fairy Suetn.

fredi gales and gentle aivs

Milton.

Then yo)!!Br birds frequent the lonely grove.
And bealts, by nature Itung, renew their love. Dryd.
Fad by her flow'ry bank the fons of Areas,
lav'ritesol lieav'o, with happy care protect
Their fleecy charge, laijcyiut drink her wave. Prior.'

Giving joy.
They all a> glad as birds of jiyaiu prime.
Thence led her forth, about her daiwing rou«d.

Rotind our death-bed ev'ry friend Ihould run,

And/oysB' o/"our conqueft early won;
W>iile"the malicious world with envious tears
Should grudge oa» happy end, and wifli it theirs.
Drydrn.

[An Indian plant.]

IfaaeHanha, is a fmall irregularly contorted root,
denfe,and firm. One fort is of a duiky jreyifh

word

ufed only imperfonally, // irks
me; mihi pcene efi , it gives me pain; or,
lam weary of it. Thus the authors of the

It irits his heart, he

I'rksome.
fome

adj.

B-ow!.

iiib lucd

by a vegetable diet. Arbuthnu in AlimtKls.

We are here

the country furrounded with
blefiingt and pleafures, without any occafion of eierin

cifing out irafcibU faculties.

i^igh " P"!"-

Anger; rage;
«./. [Fr. ;Va, Lat.]
paflionate hatred.
She lik'd nor his defire ;
Vain would be free, but dreaded parents ire. SiJncy.
If I digg'd up thy fotelather's graves,
Atid hung their rotten coffins up in chains.
It could not flake mine irt, nor eafe my heart. S'uak.

IRE.

Or Neptune's ire, or Juno's, that fo long
Miliitr.

Ferplti'd the Greek and Cytbcrea's fon.

The fenleoce, from thy head remov'd, may liijht

On roe, fole caufc to thee of all this woe
Me! me! only juft objpft of his /V»

;

Mi/im,

For this ih' avenging pow'r employs his dans,

yk.EFUL.

adj.

[ire

and

fiiJi-]

Drydm.

Angry;

raging; furious.

The irrfiti baftard Orleans, that drew blood
Tiaa tittc, ny boy, I f««a emeuatcicd. iiairfii.

and

polite

Mortimer,

iron traps.

Refembling iron in colotir.

2.

A piece of (tone of a dark iron grey coloui*, butin fome parts of a ferruginous colour.

If'cod'ti'ard.

Some of them arc of an iron red, and very bright,
IVood'WjtTd on Fofjiis.

Utaiifp. As you like it

Where he may likelieft find

Harfh ;

3.

Truce to his rcltlefs thoughts, and entertain

lamitous
hardftiip

fevere;
:

rigid;

miferable

as, the iron age

;

ca»

for an age of

and wickedncfs,

'Ihefe

ideas

may be found more or lefs in all the following examples.

There is nothing fo iikfome as general difcourfcs,

Three vigorous virgins, waiting ftill behind

Aadifn's Speflalor.
Frequent appeals from hence have been very ;»body.
illuftrious
Xwift.
fame to that
I'ltKsoMELY. ad-v. [from iri/ome.^ Weari-

Aflilt the throne of th' iroti fceptcr'd king. Crafl^a'Wt

O fad virgin, that thy power
Might bid the foul of Orpheus ling
Suth notes as warbled to the Itring,

Drew iron tears from Pluto's cheek.
And made hell grant what love did leek.

fomely ; tedioully.

Te-

dioufnefs; v/earifomenefs.

My

TRON. a./. [^a/«™, Welfh; ifepn, ipen,
Saxon ;. torn, Erfe.]

A metal common to all f>arfs of the
world. Though the lighteft of all metals
except tin, it is confidcrably the hardeft;
and when pure, naturally malleable when
wrought into fteel, or when in the impure ftate from its tirft fufion, it is fcarce
Mof! of the other met.iis are
msllcable.
but this is
brittle, while they arc hot
moft malleable as it appronches neareft to
The fpecifick gravity of iron is
fufion.
to water as 7632 is to 1000." It is the
only known fubftnnce that is attrafted by
the loadftone.
Iron has greater inedicinal virtues than any of theoth«r metals.

Milton.

In all my iron years of wars and dangers.
From blooming youth down to decaying age.
Rovje^
fame ne'er knew a (lain of difhonour.
Jove crulh the nations with an iron rod.
Pope,
And cv'ry monarch be the fcourge of God,

4.

IndifToiuble ; unbroken.
Rafh Elpcnor, in an evil hour,
Dry'd an imineafurabic bowl, and thought
exhale his furfeit by irriguous fltep.
'f
Imprudent: him death's iron ileep opprefl. Phillies,
'

:

J.

Hard; impenetrable.
I. will

convcife with //*??-witted fools,

And unrclpCi^tive boys: none aie for me.
That look into mc with conlidcratc eyes. Shakefp,
To 1'k ON. V. a. [from th"!; nouni]
1. To fmooth wilhan iron.
2. 'I o ihatkle with irons.
lRo'i»tCAt. adj. [irmlquc, Fr. from irony.\
Kxprflling one thing and meaning ai»«
other; fpeaking: by contraries.
In this failcicy may be comprifed all ironical

;

Bill.

Thus will perfift, relentlefs in his ire.

red, ihitiing

^oodivard.

tire-

;

1 will endure.

I.

Shakefp. Romeo and Jullel.
iron

otlieis not polite, but as if powdered with ironiu^.

Since that thou can'll talk of love fo well.
Thy company, whiih erft was irlifme to me,

Atul empliet all his quiver in our hearts;
Till the fair flave be render'd to her fire.

Unto my cell.
Some are of an

warrens ; the way of taking them is in hutches, aai

toilfome;

unpleafin:r.
I know Ihe is an iritfimi brawling fcold. Sbaiefp.

know more than one inftaitce of irafcibU paflions

I

In iron walls they deemM me not fccure. Shakefp,
Get me ai iron aow, and bring it rtraiglit

Wearifome;

[from hi.']

troublefome ;

I'uKsoMENES*. v.f. [fcom t'rkAme.'\

The irafcibU palTioni follow the temper of the
bean, and the concupifcible diftrailionson the crafts

Made of iron*

1.

Pole-cats and weefels do a great deal of injury ta

efpccially when they turn chiefly upon words.

anger.

Pf

cannot be reveng'd. Shakefp,

when
a deep dufky brown on the outfide, and while
broken, brought from the Brafils. The grey ought

Iua'scible. adj. {irafcililh, low La
Partaking of the nature of
ctble, Fr.]

he was-laid in

fetters;

I'ron. adj.

accidence fay, tredtt, it irketb.
Come, ihall we go and kill us vcnifon?
And yet it irk$ me, the poor dappled fools
Should, in their own conHnes, with forked lieadsr
Sbakefp.
Have their round haunches gor'd.

rough,
when
colour on ih'e furface, and of a paler grey
kroken, brought from Peru : the other fort is a
fmaller root, refembling the former; but it is of

t. /><?/'-

.

His feet they hurt with
irons.

is

The ifkf'jme hours till his great chief return. Milttn.
For not to irkjome toil, but to delight
He made us, and delight to reafon join'd. Milton.

operate
to be preferred, bccaufe the brown is apt to
W'^'J Malb. Mtd.
more roughly.

Chain; (hackle; manacle: as, he was
put in iront.
The iron entered into his foul Pfalmt. Com. Prayer.

3.

MilluH.

Iris all hues, rofes and jeflamine.

tedious;

jojr.

of the liver.

trf'

Can'ft thou fill his (kin with barbed ir-ons, or his
htad with tilhfpears ?
yoi, ili.'].
For this your locks in paper-durance bound ?
For this with lort'ring irons vnTeath'd around f Fofr.

TolRK. nj. a. [_^iif, work, Iflandick.] This

Fairy ^tietrt,

the caufe of
3. It has ef fometiraes before

«./.

Put in their hands thy bruifing irorrs of wralh.

That they may crufli down with a heavy fall
Th' ufurping helmets
our adverfaries, SJ!>, R. ttl,*

I iltea-

Newton's Oft.

the interior 3 to 1.

Did (hew his face, mjfeif I did efteem,

Iteca-cua'sba.

I

Look on my forces with a gracious eye:

Any appearance of light refembling the
furcd the beeadth of the interior iris a gr. 10'; and
the breJdth of the red, yellow, and green in the exterior iris, was to the breadth of the fame colours in

Glad; gay; merry.
Moft j'.youi man, on whom the Oiining fun

2.

Irons of a doit, doublets that hangmen would
Bury with thofe that wore them, thefe bafe flaves.
Ere yet the fight be done, pack up. Stak.Corlo/axut,
O 1 hou whofe captain I account myfclf,-

rainbow.

adj. \joyeux, Fr.]

fzyous the birds;
Whrfper-d il.

Brown,

moon.
2.

Atiitifott.

1.

as, a flat iron, box iro», or fmoothing inn.

In this fenfe it has a plural.

Ihe rainbow.

;

aod Heel work.
Moxait.

Any inftrument or utenfil made of iron

2.

VRIS. v.f. [Latin.]
1.

R O

I treated of making /Vim work,

And Madnefs laughing in his ireful mood. Drjdeit,
rRFFULLV. ad'j. [from fVf.] With ire;
in an angry manner.

Shakrfp.
Here is babe, at loathfome as 1 tojd.
Here Love his golden Ihafti employs; here lights
wmgs;
purple
His cooftant lamp, aod wave^ hi;
Reigri here, and revc'.s not In the bought fmiles

Ja'Vous.

I

In a piece oi iron ore, of a ferruginous colour, are
fcvcral thin plates, placed parallel to each other.
H'ood^varJ.
There are incredible quantities of iron flag itv
various parts of the toreft of Dean.
IJ^ocdvarJ,
Iron ilone lies in ftrata.
H^oodumrd t/w h'ffils.

Their learn'd this tnaid, of arms the ireful %u\(t.

Giving no pleafu re.

3,

R O

By many hands your father was fubdu'J;
But onlv flaughter'd by the Ireful arm
Shakefp. HenrjrW.
Ol Uiirilenting Clitferd.

With two falre>-e» hU miftrefs burnj his bKafi

midakcs, or exprelTions receiving inverted figiiitica-

MFor airlefr dungron, nor IVrOflg links of iron.
Can be retentive to the (Irength of fpirit. Sirakifp.

lirou'n,

tions.

take all your /rfxirj/ civilities in a literal fenfe,
and (hall expeft them to be literally performed.
Stvtftt
I

he fmitc him with an inftrument of iron, lo
Nunib. xxxv. ib.
that he die, he is a murderer.
The power of drawing iron 19 one ot the ideas ot a
loodftane, ani) to bf fn diawn, is a part ai that of iron.
If

Iro'nicah.y.

Uck,.

ad<v.

the ufe of i^3ny.
'

[from

ironicn/.]

By

'

Socrates

RR

I

SoCMKs wu pronounced by the oncle of Dtlphos
to be the wifeft man of Greece, which he would turn
from himfelt ircitkall); faying, There could be nothing in him to verity the oracle, except this, (hat
he was not *ife, and knew if, and otheiJ were not
wife, and knewit not.
The dean, ironicttUy grava,

Bacon.

knave.
Still ihunuM the fool, and Ulh'd the

Siuifi.

A-

tretrftly

hard,

•fink in water.

and fo ponderous
It grows in America.

to

as

Void of reafon void of underftanding
wanting the difcourfive faculty.
Thos began
;

Since (he brain

>

not ftrange if the irony
contemplative.
chains have more falidity than the

but imaginary

:

it

a thing as that every body (hould be deceived.

Hammond's Fundammlali.

of Hungary, highly impregnated
Some
one metal,
«ith vitriolick falts, diffolve the body of

and depofit, in lieu

fuppofe iron, put into the fpring ;
off, coppery part.cjes.
of the hony particles carried
IVoodvtrd on Ftjph.

IRONY,

w. /.

\ironu, Fr.

mode of fpeech iii which the meaning
to the words:

"contrary
tuas a holy man.
an
So grave a body, upon fo folemn
ftould not deal in irony, ot explain

occalion,

proftfled enemies,

Love not theTieav'nly fpirits!

laris, Latin.]

/rraJ/iWf virtual, or immediate touch?
"To Irra'diate. 11.

_

Obtain'd of Venus his defire,

faftions, though irreconcilable to
one another, that are not united in their aflfeftion to
Dryden.
you.
.

King Ciar'es.
not well to be refitted or quieted.
Regular
Then moft, when moft irregular they feem.
Milton.
The numbers of pindariques are wild and irrerular, and fometimes feem harlh and uncouth. Co^vlry.

Bo i»ol hinder the eye from judging light to

I

olTerariy thing farther in fupportof tlie one, or in
Rogers.
difproof of the other.
This elTential power of gravitation or attraSion is

irrecoHciUble -with jhe Atheift's own doflrine of a
Bentley.
chaos.
All that can be tranfmilled from the ftars is wholly
unaccountable, and irreconcilable to any fyftem of
Bentley.
fcicnce.

Ccleftial light
all her pow'rs

mift from thence
Irradiate; there plant eyes; all
Miltoi's Paradije L<Jl.

Puige and difpcrfc.

IrreconCi'lableness. n.f. [from irrecon-

To animate by heat or light.
ir.Ethereal or folar heat muft digeft, influence,
parts of matter
radiate, and put ihofe more fimple

into motion.

cilable.']

cilable.]

adii.

[from

irrecor.-

In a manniy not admitting re-

.

To decorate with ihming ornaments.
No weeping orphan faw his father's (lore

'Our (hrines irradiate, or imblaie the

Jrradia'tion. »./.

ImpofTibility to be reconciled.

IrreCONCi'laBly.

lUle.
.

.

I

ArhuiljHot's Hijl. ojjohn Bull.
Since the fenfe I oppofe is attended -with fuch
grofs irreconcilaile abfurJities, I prefume I need not

2 To enlighten; to illumine; to illuminate.
Shine inward, and the mind through

it

put the beft conftruflion upon the words and ad^ions
of her neighbours, except where they were irrecontilaile to the rules of honetVy and decency.

have an

the whole place it
equal plenary diffufion through
difficulty to allow air,
irradiates, he can have no
mingled with
where
that is diaphanous, to be every
^'Sh "• Bodies.
light.
crowning ^ace ; fuch
'it is not a converting but a
of glory about
an one as irradiates and puts a circle
South.
defcends.
the head of him upon whom it

by animofitj',

Not to be made confiftent ; it has •with
or to.
As (he was (Iriflly virtuous herfelf, fo (he always

'..
_

When he thus perceives thlt thefe opacousliodies

floor.

Pofe.

The aft of emitting beams of light.
If light were a body, it fhould drive away the air,
which is likewife a body wherever it is admitted; for

[la

and

reconciled.']

A fer^ant dies in many irreccmctlei iniquities.
Irreco'veRABLE. adj. [in and recrverable.]
Not to be regained; not to be reftored
or repaired.
Time, in a natural fenfe, is irrecoverable : the
moment juft fled by us, it is impoflible to recal.

within the whole fphere of the irradiation of it,
there is no point but light is found.

Rogers.

Dighy on Bodies.

The generation of bodies is not effected by irradi*
propagation of light
ation, or anfwerably unto the
but herein a tranfmiflion

is

Not to be remedied.

.

The irrecoverable lofs of fo many livings of prin-

made materially from

Hoohr.
cipal value.
trifle away
It concerns every man, thit would not

Tome parts, and ideally from every one.
.Brown's Vulgar Hrrour:.
3. Illumination J iatelleftual light.

virtue.

his foul,
,1

according to

of

the laws

A foft word for 'vicious.

Irregula'rity.

n. f.

Fr.

[irregularite,

from irregular.]
Deviation from rule.
1
2. Negleft of method and order.
.

Thvs irregularity of its unruly and tumultuous
motion might aflbrd a beginning unto the common

Brown.
As thefe vaft hops of mountains are thrown to-

opinion.

gether with l"o much irrigu/arity and confufion, they
Addijon
form a great variety of hollow bottoms.
3.

Inordinate praftice ; vice.
Religion is fomewhat lefs in danger of corruption,
while the linner acknowledges the obligations of his
Rogers.
duty, and is alhamed of his irregularities.

-Irre'gularly. ad'v. [from irregular.]
Without obfervation of rule or method.
Phaeton,

adj.

Sialiejpeare.

I.

Not being

3.

conciliation.

Irreconci'led.
Not atoned.

[irradiatioa, ft. {torn

inadiale.]

Immethodical ; not confined to any certain rule or order.
This motion feenvslxcentrique and irregular, yet

light emitted upon it;
I. ToTidorn with

to brighten.

Prior.

Howe'er irregular his fire.
2.

cannot end without
7Vm*/r.

reconcihil/le

fome ciifis.
There are no

Mdion.

a. [irradio, Latm.J

Deviating from rule, cuftom, or nature.
The am'rous youth

1.

Milton.
Irreconcilable to our grand foe.
weak unequal fadlion may animate a govern
ment ; but when it grows equal in llrength, and iV-

Or do they mix

_

IRRE'GULAR. adj. [irregtilier, Fr. itregu-

to
I, Not to be recalled to kindnefs; not
be appeafed.
Wage eternal war.

A

Beams of light emitted.

Atterbury.

gaily proves.

in and reconcilaile.]

tranflucencyt the

evident from

Irri;fu'table. adj. [irrefutabilis, Latin.]
Not to be overthrown by argument.

IrrecOnci'lable. adj. [irrecoHcileable, Fr.

"""{ '

The principal affeaion is its
many.gemf, is
irradiancy and fparkling, found in
Bro-un's Vulgar Errourt.
not difcoverable in this.

A.

That they denied a future ftite is

St. Paul's rcafonings, which are of no force but only
on that luppofition, as Otigen largely and irrejru-

Addijon's Freeholder.

_

any objeft.

rt.

Irrefra'cably. adv. [from irrefragable.]
With force above confutation.

H-e mufttxpedl their calumnies will continue.

Irra'diance."! «./. [irradianee, trench;
iVraA'o, Latin.]
Ikrr'dia-kcv. J
of light upon
1. Emiffion of rays or beams

3.

iri^tional.^

abfurdly.

to the better.
As for obftinate, irreclahnable,

is

Not to

Strong and irrefragable the evidences of Chriftlanity inuft be : they who refilled thcui would refilt
Attcrhury's Sermons.
cvcrv thing.
The danger of introducing unexperienced men
wa5 ui^ed as an irrefragable reafon for working by
Swift.''
flow degrees.

Pofe.

Not to be "reclaimed; not to be changed

their meaiHi^ by

contraries.

[from

[irrefrogalilii,

adj.

irrefragable, Fr.J

pofuion.

Irreclaimable, adj. [/nand reclfiimabU.'\

EoUngbnke

as,

ad-j.
;

;

be confuted ; fuperior to arguinental op-

^ant of reafon.
Irra'tionally.
Without reafon

A

.'w«»«i».l

fchool Latin

Irrationa'lity. a. /. [from irrational.^

fprings

Strength of argument not to oc

IRREFRA'GABLE.

I (hall quietly fubmit, not wifhing fo irrational

is

irrefrar.

refuted.

Harvey on Confumptions

.

The force they arc under l8Teal, and that of their

fcte

able.]

only a part tranfrnittcnt, and

is

Biyl .

IrREFRAGABi'lITY. »./. [from

that humours oft are precipitated to the lungs before
they arrive to the brain, no kind of benefit can be
eiTe^ied from fo irrational an application.

Made of iron;

partaking of iron.

Thefe ohfcrvations fcem to argue (he corpufcles of
air to be irreducible into water.

Abfurd; contrary to reafon.

2.

Miller.
adj. \_(xova iron.']

Irredu'cible. adj. [in and redncibie.]
Not to be brought or reduced.

but difcord firft

Milton's Paradije Ldji.

Irrational til! then

A plant.

I'JIONWORT. «./. \Jiderith,\AX.\

Beyond recover}-; paft repair.

Daughter of fin, among th' irrational
Milton's Paradife Leift.
Death introduc'd.
He hath eat'a and lives.
And knows, and fpeaks, and reafons and difcerns

Robinjon Crufoe.

I'aony,

O dark, dark, dark amid' the blare of noon;
htecov'rably dark, total ctlipfc.
Milton's AgmiJIes.
Without all hope of day.
The credit of the Exchequer is irruavrraily loit
lemyle.
by the lad breach with the bankers.

Outrage from lifelefs things :

A kind of wood ex-

w. /.

and fupernatural, as by immediate irradiation or
^''''
revelation.

IRRA'TIONAL. adj. [irrationalis, Lat.]

dealer in iron.

•

Irreco'verably.<i</x'. [from/r«f8«/rflii!?.]

1

Ironmo'ngbr. M,/.\iron and CTW^tr.J
I'ronwood.

Thelrif ans of immediate union of thefe inlelligiMe
to the underflaiiding, at« fometimes divine

objefls

and fool himfelf into it recoverable mifery,

wiUJ the jreitell ferioufnefs to enquire.

'tiUetJir,

By the wild courfers of his fancy drawn.
From Eall to WelV irregularly hurl'd,
Firit fet on tire himfelf, and

then the world.

Dryd,

Your's is a foul irregularly great,
Wliich wanting temper, yet abounds with heat.
It may give fome light to thofe

DryJer,
whofe concern for

their little ones makes them (oimguLirly bold at
fo confult their own reafon, in the education of their

children, rather than to rely upon old cuftom. Locke,

To Irre'gulate.
regiila,

Latin.]

"v.

a.

[from

in

To rtiake irregular;

and
to

diforder.
Its flufluations are Vut motions fubfervient, whith

winds, (heUes, ud every isterjavCDcy irteiulates.

Hrvwn.

Irrela'tivi.

I

R R

Separated by tKe voice of God, things in their

uncommunicated varieties, and
Brovjn^s l^ulgar Errours,

irrelalivA feminalitie^,

Decay ofPieiy.

injurious to her.

Irreprehe'nsible.

[irreligieux, Fr. /» and

adj.

Exempt from

The iffae of an iVrfiij^/iKf Moor,

.Sbakefp,

Whoever fees thefe irreligioui men.
With burthen of a ficJcncfs weak and faint,

'

the impious and irreligious.
South,
t. Contrary to religion.
Wherein that fcripture itandeth not the church
of God in any ftead, or fcrveth notliing at all to

diteA, but may be let pafs ai needlcfc to be confolted
with, we judge it profane, impious, and irreligious
to think.
H:oker.
Might not the ijueen's domefticks be obliged to
avoid fwearing, and irreligious profane difcourfe ?
S-wifi.

Irr ELi'ciousLY.

adi'.

[from

Irrepro'achable.

Admitting no return.

anA remeJiable.'\ Admitting no Cure; not
to be remedied.

They content ihemfeWes with that which was the
irremedijtle erroT oi torma times, or the neceflity

of the prefent hath call upon them.
Hooker.
Heady hand, in military affairs, is more requifite than in peace, becaufe an error committed in
war may prove irremediable.
Bacon.
Whatever he confulls you about, unlefs it lead to
fome fatal and irrenudiebte mifchief, be fure you advife only as a friend.
Locke.
I»R E
e'd I A B L y . aiv. [from irremediable.']

A

M

Without cure.
It happens to us irremediably and inevitably, that

we may perceive thele accidents are not the fruits of
our labour, but gifts of Ood. Tayhr's Iforthy Comm.

Ik REMISSIBLE,

eidi.

\in

2nd remitto, hat.

French.] Not to lie pardoned.

Ikremi'ssibleness.

[(lom irremrj/ible.] The quality of being not to be pardoned.
n. /.

Thence arifcs the aggravation and irremiJJibUnefs
•f the fin.

liammQitd on Fundamentals.

I» R r Mo'v A B L E . adj. [/« and remr.-ve.]
to be moved ; not to be changed.

Not

He is irremwable,
Refolv'd for flight.

Shakcffeare't Winter's Tale.

And draw ihcm from purfuit of praifc and fame
1

o lluggilh floih ami fenfual delights,
t'atry Queen.

Irke PARABLE,

adj.

\irrttarahilis,\M\n;
irreparalle, French.]
Not to be recovered ; not to be repaired.
Irreparable it the lofs, and Patience fayt it it not

part her cure.

Shakeff. T.mfejl.
Militm.

Toil'd with lofi irrefiarable,
It IS an irreparable jnjufkice we are guilty of, when
we are prejudiced by U>e lookt of thofe whom we do
not know.
Addihn.

VpuL

Irresolu'tion. «. /. [irrefolution, Fr. in
and refoltiiion.] Want of firmnefs of mind.

Free from blame; free from re-

It halh moft force upon things that have the
lighten motion, and therefore upon the fpiriis of
men, and in tliem upon fuch afteaions as move
liglueft i as upon men in fear, or men in iriejllution.

Their prayer may be, that they may raife up and
breed as irrepmachabU a young family as (heir parents have done.
.
Pope.

Bacon's Natural Hijioiy,
Irrefolution on the fcheiujs of life, which offer
themfelvcs to our choice, and inconftaiicy in purfuing them, are the grcateft caufcs of all our un-

Irrepro'achably. adv. [from irreproachWithout blame

able.]

;

without reproach.

Irrepro'veable. adj. [in and repro-vtable.]
Not to be blamed irreproachable.
Irresistibi'lity. n.f [from irrejiflible.]

happinefs.

Thus did the Jew, by perfuading himfcll ol his
particular irrejpetlive eledlion, think it I'afc to run
into all fins!
Han.

Power or force above oppofition.
The doitrine of irrejtjiibility of grace, if it be acknowledged, there is nothing to be afKxt to gratitude.

According to this dotflrine, it muft be refolvcd
wholly into the abfolute irrejpedive will of God.

Hammond.

Irrksi'stible. adj. [irrejijlible, Fr. in and
rejiftible.]
Supenour to oppofition.

Rogers,

Irresp e'cti ve ly. adv, [from irrefpeaive,^
Without regard to circumftances.
He is convinced, tiial all the promifes bslong to

Fear doth grow from an apprehcnfion of the
Deity, indued with irrejijlible power to hurt ; and is
of all affciftions, anger excepted, the unapteft to admit
conference with reafon.
Hooker.
In mighty quadrate join'd

Ofunion irrrJiJiibU..

Milton.
Fear of God is inward acknowledgment of an holy
Being, armed with almighty and inejijlible
power.
Tilloifon.
There can be no difference in the fubjefts, where
the application is almighty and irrepftible, as in

him abfolutely and irrefpeHivcly.
Hammond.
Ir ret rie'v ABLE, adj, [in and retnCve.]
Not to be repaired ; irrecoverable; irreparable.

juft

creation.

Irr E TR I e'v A

all

'"rth.

manner of events on
Drydfn.

Fond of pleafing and endearing ourfclves to thofe
we efteem, we are irrejijlibly led into the fame inclinations and averfions with them.

Rogers.

colleaed.

Irre'verence.

Latin;
French ; in and revence,]
1. Want of reverence ; want of veneration
want of refpeft.

tion to the fcveral paits of it.

2.

State of being difregarded.

The concurrence of the houle of peers in that fury
pan be imputed to no one thing more than to the
irreverence and fcorn the judges werejuftly in, who
had been always looked upon there as the oracles of

difTolvcd.

as

the law.

one fait, which feems in fuch velfclt irrefoluble

by fire alone.

Boyle.

Irre'solubleness. n.f. [from irrefoluble.]
Refiftance to feparation of the parts.

Decay of Piety,

Tlicy were a fort of attributes, with which it was
a matter of religion to falute them on all occafions,
and which it was an irre'verence to omit.
Pope.

Thofe radiant eyes, whofe irrefsjilefs flame
Strikes Eivy dumb, and keeps Sedition tame,

In fatiiitious fal ammoniac the common and
urinous falls are fo well mingled, that both in the
open fire and in fubliming velTels they rife together

[irreverentia,

Having feen obr fcandalous irreverence towards
God's worlhip in general, 'tis eafy to make applica-

refiftlcfs.

They can to gazing multitudes give law.

IVaad-ward.

n.f.

irreverence,

Irresi'stless. adj. [A barbarous ungrammatical conjuntStion of two negatives.]
Irrefiftable;

irrecoverably.

would not defray the charge of the extraffion,
and therefore mufl have been all irretrieitably loft,
and ufelefs to mankind, was it not by this means
It

R'.gers.

irrejij/bly fways

i.-f.adv, [from irrelrievable,]

Irreparably ;

Irresi'stibly. adv. [from irre/_fiible.] In
a manner not to be oppofed.
Cod

Addifon.

Irrespective, adj, [in and refpeaive]
Having no regard to any circumftances.

;

Irreno'wned. tf(^'. [in and reito-wn.] Void
Convert the faflious, and the rebel awe. Gtantiille.
of honour. We now far, nnrtnoivned.
Irrr'soluble. adj. [in and refolubilis.
For all he did was to deceive good knights.
Latin.]
Not to be broken; not to be
Vkndend ihcir daysin /VrrmiviKi/fhame.

termined purpofe.

[in and reproach,

adj.

He was a ferious lincere Chrifllan, of an innocent,
irreproaeliaile, nay, exemplar}- iife.
Atterbury,

TheJUeeper charm'd, the chief without delay
Pafs'd on, and took th' irremeable way.
Drfden.

Irreme'di ABLE. ffi//. [irremediable, Fr. in

Irre'solutely. adv. [from irrejolule.]
Withouhfirmnefsof mind ; without de-

proach.

irreligiou].'\

With impiety ; with irreligion.
Irre'meable. aJ-v. \_iriemcabilis, Latin.]

Temple.
j

Cod's irreprrfentable nature doth hold againrt
making images of God.
Stillingjleei.

able]

Shakefp. Henry VIII.

Inefolute on which (he fliould rely,
At Ijll unfix'd in all, is only fix'd to die. Dryden,

Not to be figured by any reprefentaiion.

But hears them talking of religion then.

and

SoMyrrha's mind, impell'd^jn either fide.
Takes ev'ry bent, but cannot long abide

Without blame.

Jib'.e.'\

Irreprese'ntablk. adj. [/wand reprefent.]

Dazries.
And vowing of their fouls to ev'ry faint.
Shame and reproach is generally the portion of

in

of ingenious hiit irrrfJute men.

Irreprehe'nsibly. adz). [itovn irrefrehen-

impious.

;

Fr.

Him after long debate, irrejilutc
Of thoughts revolv'd, his final feiuence chofe
Fit vclTci, (itielt imp of fraud, in whom
To en ler.
Milton 's Paradife Lcfl.
To make reflexions upon what ispalV, is the part

blame.

Contemning religion

[irrefolti,

Does an irr folate pui pofc.

[irreprehenftble,

Fr. irref) ehenfibilii. Latin.]

adj.

Not conftant in purpofe j not

determined.
Where he evil us'd, he would outgo
His father, by as much as a performance

Jr.reple'vi ABLE. adj. [in and refle^y.'\
Not to be redeemed. A law term.

religioui.']

irremijjible,

rejblute.j]

.

The weapons with which I combat irrtlirion are

Irreli'gious. (7<^'.

Irre^solute.

Such adventures befall artii^s irreparably
Boyle.
The cutting off that time induftry and gifts,
whereby Ihe would be nourilhed, were irreparably

;

We

Garth.

Irre'parably, adv. [from irreparable.']
Without recovery ; without amends.

Irreli'gion. n.f. \Jrrelighn, Fr. in and
relighn-l Contempt of religion impiety.
already confecrated,
Vrj-Jen.
behold every inflance of prophanenefs and />religion, not only committed, hut defended and
^ Rogers.
gloried in,

hear me fpeak fo irrejol-vedly concerning thofe
which fome take to be the elements, an!
others the principles of all mixed bodies.
Boyk.
things,

"

our probity.

fpecies came out in

'

51 R R
Divmof my friends have thought It ftrahge'f*

piety and innocence cannot mifs of the divine proteilion, and that the only lofs irreparable is that of

;

onconnefted.

I,

R R

r

The ftory of Deucalion and Pyrrha teaches, that

Irre'lativs. <7<^'. [r/t and n/afivui, Lsf.]
Having no reference to an/ thing fingle j

Clarendon.

Irr E'vEREN*r. adj, [irreverent, Fr. in and
reverent,]
Not paying due homage or
.

reverence ; not exprefling or conceiving
due veneration or refpeft.
As our fear exclujeth not that boldnefs which be-

Quercetanus, has this confcffiOB of the irrefolubleneft of diamonds.
Boyle,

cometh faints, fo, if our familiarity with God do not
it draweth loo near that irreverent
confidence wherewith true humility can never ftand.

Irr eso'lvedly. adf. [in and refohed,]
Without fettled detcrminatioD.

the vulgar foiC as jewels of ineflimable price, fearing

,

favour of fear,

.

Hooker,

Knowledge men fought for, and covered
6

T

it

from
the

I
•tlie irrtvtttnl
religious.

ISC

R R

Ham, by his indifcrcet

who, for the (hame

Of him who built the ark ;
Don* to hi» father, heard his heavy curfe.

Tol'RRITATE. v. a. [irrito, Latin; irriter,

^iytongue.
,
,
wranton
If an irttvtreni exprelTion or thought too
tie crept into my verfes, through my inadvertency,

To provoke

1

[

Cirv. of the Tongue.

Irreve'rsibi.y. adv. [from

by any

irrever/tble ,]

Sbukefftare.

Which I have palt upon her. Hhakeff. As you like it.
That which is palt is gone and it revocable therefore they do but trifle, that labour in palt matters.

Bacon'i JE-jjayt.
The fecond, both for piety renown'd.
And puill'ant deeds, a promife (hall receive

Irrevuablcy tliat his regal throne
Milton's Paradift Loji.
for ever Ihall endure.

By her irrevocable fate.

War (hall the country wafte, and change the dale.
Dryden.

The other viflor flame a moment Hood,
Then fell, snd lilclcfs left th' extinguilh'd wood
Tor ever loft, ih' irrruocablr light
loifook the black'ning coals, and funk to night.
Dryden,
Each facred accent bears eternal weight,
Po,
word
fate.
irrevoeaile
is
ofe.
And each

Irrevocably, ad'v.

[from irrevocable.^

Without recall.
If air were kept out four or five minutes, the fire
Boyle.
would be irrevocably cxtinguilhed.

rel'ftRIGATE. w. a. [imgo, Latin.J To
wet to moiften to water.
The heart, which is one of the principal parts 6f
;

;

the body, doth continually irrigate, nourilh, keep hot,
Ray an the Creation.
and fnpple all the members.
They keep a bulky charger near their lips,
deep.
interrupted
often
With which, in

Their frying blood compels to irrigate
A. Pbillipt.
Their dry futr'd tongues.
Irrica'tion. »./. [itom irrigate.] The
Rift

of watering or moiftening.

Help of ground is by watering and irrigation
Bacon.

Irri'cuous. adj. [from irrigate.]
1. Watery; watered
The flow'ry lap
Of fome irriguous valley fpreads her ftore. Milton.
Dtjwy ; moid. Phillips feems to have
niiftaken the Latin phrafe iiriguus fopor.
Kalh Elepcnor
Dty'd an immeafurable bowl, and thought

T" exhale his furfcit by irriguous lleep :
him dtaih'i iron deep oppreil.
Imprudent!
*
Pblllifs

roguijh.

[More properly icicle, froip
fhould rather be written j/i;
pendent (hoot of ice.
ij-j-, Saxon.]
Do YOU know this lady }
The moon of Rome ; chafte as the ijlcle
That's curdled by the froft from piirefl fnow

I'siCLE.
ice;

Bacon.

n. f.

but

ice

A

Shake/p^

Hanging on Dian's temple.

The frofts and fnows her tender body fpare
Dryden.

Thofe are not limbs for i^clet to tear.

When they are collefted, the heat becometh more

Isingla'ss. n./. [from ice, wife, 2.xA gtafs^

violent and irritate, and thereby eipelleth fweat.
Bacon'i Natural Hijlory.

ichthyorolla , Latin.]
ffmglnfs is a tough, firm, and light fubllance,' of

opinions.

Firm and irrevocable is my doom,

added ; 3S,fool, Joelijh; man, manijh ; rogue,

to enforce.

weather.

of the

participation

qualities of the fubltantive to which it i»

Air, if very cold, irrilatelh the flame, and maketh
it burn more fiercely, as fire fcorcheth in frofty

myriads of Solifidians have Rumbled, and fallen irreverjibly, by conceiving heaven a reward of inie

verfed.
Give thy hand to Warwick,
And, with thy hand, thy faith irrevoeahle.
That only Warwick's daughjcr Ihall be thine.

;

likewife notes

3. It

to put into motion or diforder
irregular or unaccuftomed con-

To heighten; to agitate

3.

fined to the doctrines of faiih, hath occafioned that
great fcandal in the church, at which fo many

Hammond on Fundamentals.
Irre'vocablf. adj. [irrmocab'lii, Latin;
irrevocable, French.] Not to be recalled
not to be brought back ; not to be re-

;

the Danijh territores, or

territories of the Danes.

taft ; to ftimulate ; to vellicate.
Cold maketh the fpirits vigorous, and irritalelh
Bacon.
them.

Rogen.

Without change.
The title oi fundamentals, being ordinarily con-

To fret

brighiijh,

of a gentile or pofleflive adjeftive ; as,

Clarendon.

2.

fomewhat

blue ;

Stuedijh, Danijh,

his hand, could (lacken them, and was thought to be
the more remits to irritate his cholerick difpotition.

•lis but an ill cffay of reverence and godly fear

twr/fi/ffentenccbe pronounced.

to teaze ; to exafperate.

Bacon.
language, did not irritate tht people.
Laud's power at court could not qualify him to go
reformation,
whilft
he had
that
diflicult
through with
a fuperior in the church, who, having the reins in

Without due refpcfl or veneration.

z.%,bluifli,

tending to

t. It is likewife fometimes the termination

The earl, fpeaking to the freeholders in imperious

Drydcn.

Irre'versibi.e. adj. [/'» and reiierje.\ Not
to be recalled ; not to be changed.
The fills of his chamber and his clofet (hall be
produced before men and angels, and an eternal irre-

;

incipient ftate of any quality :

bright.

French.]

Cod in common difcourfe, is another abufe of the

to ufe (he gofpcl irreverently.

and unnatural trrifoa,

and expofing of his father, incurs his curfe.
(fcoJward.

Millon.
Servant of fervanti, on his vicious race.
Swearing, and the irreverent ufiiig ihe name of

Irre'verbntlv. adv. [from irreverent.

A

The ad of laughing at another.

Wilnefs the irreverent fon

let their authors be anfwcrable tor them.

IsH. [ifc, Saxon.]
termination added to an adjcfllve to
I .
exprefs diminution, a fmall degree, or

iRRi'sioif. «./. [irrijio, Latin; !rrijtii», Fr.]

eonftruOion of the igoorant anfl irRj/rigi-

S L

I

Rous'd

By dalh of clouds, or irritating war
Of fighting winds, while all is calm below.
Tlom/hn'i Summer.
They furious fpring.
Irrita'tion. u./. [irritatio, Latin: irritation, French ; from irritare.]
1, Provocation ; exafperation.
2. Stimulation ; vellication.
Violent aflFefiions and irritations of the nerves,
any part of the body, is caufed b^ fomething
Arbuthnot.
acrimonious.
Irru'ption, »./. {^irruption, Yt. irruftio,
in

Latin.]

The aft of any thing forcing an entrance.

1

I refrain, too fuddenly.

To utter what will come at Ult too fuon ;
Hitting thy aged ear, (hould pierce tuo deep. Milton.
There are frequent inundations made in maritime
Burnet.
countiies by the irruption of the fea.

A full and fudden irruption of thick melancholick
blood into the heart puts a flop to its puliation.
iljrvey.

Inroad ; burft of invaders into any place.
Notwiihftanding the irruptions of the barbarous
nations, one can fcarce imagine how fo plentiful a
foil ihould become fo mifcrably unpeopled, AddiJ'on.

Is,

[if,

Saxon.

See To Be.]

The third perfon fingular of To'be :

I

Is C H 1 a'd I C K . aeii. [tV>;te», i'(r;tji« Jiit©- ; ij'chiaIn anatomy, an epithet
dique, French.]

vein ; in

pathology,

the

ijckiadick paHion is the gout in the hip, or

the fciatica.

I'SCHURY.

Tt.f.

\!rx,iSiM,

i'X" 3"^

*f»'>

urine; ijchurie, French ; ijchuria, Latin.]
A ftoppage of urine, whether by gravel
or other caufe.
Ischure'tick. »./. \ifchuretiqtu, French ;
from ij'chury.] Such medicines as force
urine when fupprefled.

glafs is prepared, is one of the cartilaginous kind : it
to eighteen and twenty feet in length, and

grows

It is frequent in the
greatly refembles the fVurgeon.
Danube, the Borifthencs, the Volga, and the lai^er

From the inteftines of this filh the

rivers of Europe.

Hill,
ifinglafs is prepared by boiling.
The cure of putrefaction requires an incraffating
diet,

as

all

vifcid

broths,

ivory,

harifhorn,

and

floyrr.

ifinglafs.

Some make it clear by reiterated fermentations,
Mortimer.

and others by additions, as ifinglafs.

VsincL/iSS Stoae. St. f. A foffil which is
one of the pureft and fimpkft of the natural bodies. The maffes are of a brownare feparated, they are perfeftly colourlefs, and more bright and pellucid than

the finett glafs.
Perfia.

It is found in

Mufcovy,

the ifland of Cyprus, in the Alps

and Apennines, and the mountains of
Bill's Mat. Med.
Germany.
I'SLAND. ». /. [inft/la, Latin; ijola, Ital.
It is pronounced ilattd.]
ealaiid, Erfe.
A traft of land furrounded by water.
He will carry this ifland home in his pocket, and
for an apple.
And fowing the
it his fon

give

Shakfpeare's Temfefii

yotn. viii. 47.
Be not afraid of them, for they cannot do evil;
yer. x. 5.
neither is it in them to do good.
My thought, whofc murihcr yet is but laiitallical.
Shakes fo my tingle Ibte of man, that fundion
Is fmothcr'd in furmife j and nothing is.
Sbakt-ffeare's Macbeth.
But what is not.
2, It is fometimes expreffed by '/.
There'i fome among you have beheld me fighting.
Shakr/p

crural

fome degree tranfparent,

The fifh from which ijin*

kernels in the fea, bring forth maniflands.

am, thou art, he is.
He that it of God, hcareth God's words.

to the

whitilh colour, and in

much refembling glue.

ifh orreddifh colour; but when the plates

Left evil tidings, with too rude Irruption,

2,

Ti

Within a long rccefs tliere lies a bay.
An /^<IA</ Ihades it from the roiling fea.
Dryden.

And forms a port,
Ifland of bhfs
I'si

ander

ilander.]

I

amid' the fubjeft feas.

». /. [from ifland.

Tliomjon,

Pronounced

An inhabitant of a country fur-

roundt^d by water.

We, as all i/landers, are lunares, or the moon'i
Camden.
men,
Your finner, and the generous i/landers
Shakefp.
By you invited do attend your prcfence.
There are many bitter fayings agalnft ijhr.ders
in general) reprefcntiiig them as fierce, treacherous,
and unhofpitable : thofe who live on the continent
have fuch Irequent iniercourfe with men of different
religions and languages, that they become more kind
than thofe who arc the inhabitants of .m illand.
Addifon's Pree holder,
A race of rugged mariners are ihele,
Uiipolith'd men, and boift'rous as their feas;

The native iJlanJers alone their care.
And hateful he that bieathes a foreign air.
Isi. E.

», /.

[ijle,

Pope.

French; infula, Latin.

Pronounced //r, j
I.

Aa

S S'

I

I, An ifland; a country

I

furrrounded by

water.

By Nilus' head.

Milton's Paradtfe Loft.
This old peaceful prince, as Heav'n decreed,
Wasblefs'd with no male iffue to fucceed.

Sbaktff.

The dreadful fight
Betwixt a nation and two whales I write j
Seas (lain'd with gore I fing, advent'rous toil,
And how thefe monfters did difarm an ifle. Ifuller.

9.

Pope.

In geometry, are fuch figures as
hare equal perimeters or circumferences,

of which thecircleisthegreateft. Harris.
Fr. or equian-

That which hath only

two fides equal.

1. The aft of paffing out.
2. Exit ; egrefs ; or paflage out.
Unto the Lord beleng the ijfitrs from death.

Pfalms.

•ut of this difficulty.
D'gby on Bodies.
We might have eafily prevented thofe great returns of money to France; and if it be true the
French are fo impoveriflied, in what condition muft
they have been, if that iffue of wealth bad been
ftopped ?

S-u'ift.

But to fine iJlu<s.
ll

1

were

caft

upon

fin

till

2.

that God
deferved it, the

lucky hits of a roving fancy.

i/lbinus between the Euxine and the

A^eiftdefires.

To make an eruption

Atlength there iffu'd from the grove behind,

A fair aflembly of the female kind.
A buBing noife of bees his ears alarms

the

£„,/

I

!

am to pray you not to ftrain my fpeech

the dilcharge of humours.
This tumour ill his left arm was caufed by ftridl
binding ot his /^«.
iH/eman.
7. Evacuation.

offspring.

1.

Since that the Iruelt ijue of thy throne,

£y Itisawn iatetdi^lioa lUuds accurK.
Ihiote/f.Iiaaehtth.

The neutral demonftrative.

by himfelf, but requirelh another luord to be
joined with him lojhenu \i\ijigmjicatirm.
Nothing can give that to another which // hath
not itfelf.
Bramball againft Hobhts,
Will our great anger learn to (loop fo low ?
I know it cannot.
Coiuley.
Tell me,
tell, what kind of thing is wit.
Thou who matter art of//.
Coiuln/.

O

His fon, il may be, dreads no harm ;
But kindly wails his father's coming home. Flatmtn.
The time will come, // will, when you (hal! know
The rage of love.
Dryden.
How can 1 fpeak j or how, fir, can you hear I
Imagine that which you would moft deplore.
And that which I would fpeak, is or more.
Dryden.
A mind fo furnilhed, what reafon has it toacT
I'r

^uiel'ce in /Vj conciufions }

Pipes made with a belly towards the
lower end,
and then ffuing into alVaightconcave

place, and darted its rays

.

that the whole fabrick began to melt.
If

;

Bacon's Natural Hiftcry.
to ns
<r,.-.,
Setup.

lo lendoutjudiciaUyorauthoritativcIy.

This is the more frequent

fcnfe.

Addijan,

a greater good in the prefcnt conftMu-

we may ihcn reafonably conclude, that the prefent
conHitution proceeded from an intelligent, and good
being, that formed it that pariicular way out tff
choice.
lieinlcy,

theparisor to/^aethefpiriis.

money out

we hnd

tion, than would have accrued either from the total
privation ol it, or from other frames and (Irudlures,

to fend forth.

A weak degree of heat is not able either to digcft
The commiflTioneis Ihould iffue
other ufe.
'T'
r
J
'I-

Locke,

The glory which encompalTed them covered the
with fo much (Ircngth,

'v.a.

To fend out

ii»

a noun adjeSi-ve it that luhich cannot Jtand

Ayliffe's Parergon.

...
To run out in
lines.

Ufed

fpeaking of things. For it, our anceftors
ufed he, as the neutral pronoun ; and for
/// ttiey ufed his. Thus in the
Accidence,

asaiu. Bacn.

2.

O nation miferaolc

I.

^ ^ings.xx, 1%.

Ti

Popes

VX. pronoun. [)5ir, Saxon.]

To be produced by any fund.

To IS J O t

Mai. ii. 20.

.

;

which

_

5.

A woman was difeafed with an Iffue of blood.
Progeny

Of thy fonsthat Ihall iffue from thee,
thou (halt beget, (hall ihcy take away.

Creech

Plac'd on this ifthmus of a middle ftate,

A being darkly wife, and rudely great.

Thefe altarages ijued out of the offerings
made
to the altar, and were payable to the
priefthood.

Hbakefp. Oihrllo.

vent made in a mufcle for

in execution.

;

'yffey.

rr*

4.

5. Sequel deduced from premifes.

To grofler iljues, nor to larger reach.

eieomenes thinking it more advifable to iortifyj
not the ifthmus, but the mountains,
put hi* defign

Dryden.

Poft't

poffeft !

<yi(f,layshisheroafleep, and ihisfolvcs thediflicultv.

3.

two fcas, and there are fome bufy in cutting
the
ifthmus, t* let in both at once upon it. Stillingjleet.

Dryden

To proceed as an offspring.

again.

Our church of England (lands as Corinth be°tweai

Full for the port the Ithacenfians ftand,

!

B'yden.
*' * '°'^ '" """"^ oiiScult matters to an
•-r^'""^'^'

a

Yet can 'ft not wave nor wi.
(lain ;
But broken and •'erwhelm'a tiu ocean meets

And fori their fails, iwA iffue oa the land.
3.

How wild a paflion works within my bread

;

I

Up betwixt two eternities.

Straight ffue through the fides afTcmbling fwarms.

iffue.

Wha'/;^f of my love remains for me

A fontanel

O

Cafpian Seas.
Brerewood on Languages,
life, thou nothing's younger
brother

Thou weak built ifthmus, that doft proudly rife

Mition.

Saalb

conclufion.

Than to fulpicion.

that

£iiei.

See that none hence iffue forth a fpy.

hath preferved Argalus alive, under pretence
of haymg him publickly executed after thefe
wars,
of which they hope for a foon and profperous

6.

pregnably fortified.
Sandys's Travels.
I he AfTyrian empire ftretcheth
northward to

.

Hafte, arm your Ardeani,
iffue to the plain
With taith to triend, aflaultthe Trojan train. ;

Our prefcnt condition is better for us in the iffue,

I

A neck
of land joining the peninfula to the con-

fpeciil iffue then muft be that, where fpecial matter being alleged by the defendant

Stuib.

than that uninterrupted health and fecutity that

Shakefp. IVinler's rale.

tinent.
There is a caftle ftrongly feated on a high rock,
which joiaeth by an i/16,aus to the land, aud
is im-

to break out.
;
Three of matter Ford's brothers watch the door
withpiftols, that none ftiould /^w out, otherwife
you might nip away.
Sbal^rfp.

this iffue,

man

Wiih what prodigious flames am

Have left me iffueie/s.

bring in their verdift, whether the
defendant have done any fuch thing as
the plaintiff", layeth to his charge.
'J he

utmoft end of the head branches there
gummy juice.
Raleigh's IVftory.
Waters iffu'd from a cave.
MiliM.
Ere Pallas /^a'rf from the ihunderer's head,
Dulnefs o'er all poiTefs'd her ancient right.
Pope.

The wittieft fayings and feoiences will be found
the ijuei of chance, and nothing elfe but fo many

;

Cetrpw'i Survey ofCornviall'
I have done fin
j
For which the Heavens, taking angry note.

•>>«

Fa'rfax

belt would fin, and fin forever.

^ Termination
He

Carew, by virtue of this entail, fucceeded
to Hugh's
portion, as dying i^«/f/J.

•n-^'""'

But let the ijfut correfpondent prove

To good beginnings of each entetprize.
If things

Isthmus, n.f. [i^hmus, Latin.]

houfe.

Which oft infefls the wifeft. Shahrfp. Winter's Tale.

*ould never prevent

general or fpecial : general '^ue feemeth
to be that whereby it is referred to the

T,

iffuetb out a

V'hereof the execution did cry out
Againflthe non-performance, 'twas a fear

-Ayliffe's Parergon.

Isst/ELEss. adj. [from iffue.\
Having
no offspring ; wanting defcendants,

Waters iffuej out from under the threfliold of the

were ever fearful

return

commands as the judge fliall iffuefortb.

French ; u/cire, Italian.]
1. To come out ; to paf« out of any
place.

To do a thing, where I the i^ue doubted,

Dryd

what they have done, and to receive fuch
other

of

the parties join
thereupon, and fo grow rather to a demurrer, Witht qucejiio juris, or to trial by
the jury, if it be guaJfiofaSi.
Ccnvel.
To I'ssuE.^'. ». [from the noun; iffuer,

Sbakrfp. Meaf.for Meaf.

tsmpeft unforefeen prevents their care.

They coiiftantly wait in court to make a due

and his wife; fomctimes for profits growing from an amercement, fine, or cxpences of fuit
fometimes for profits of
lands or tenements ; fometimes for that
point ofmatter depending in fuit, whereupon the parties join and put their caufe
to the trial of the jury.
IJfue is either

for his defence, both

5. Event ; confequence.
Spirit:* aK not finely touch 'd.

Dtydeu.

hands

')5

[In law.]
Jffue hath divers applications
in the common law
fometimcs ufed for
the children begotten between a man

jurj- to

Harris

KSUE. «./. [ijfue, French.]

Let u» examine what bodies touch a moveable
whilft in motion, as the only means to find an IJfuc

In vain the mailer iffues out commani'.j.
In vain the trembling Jailors ply their

;

^jVfor,]

\ifoJcele,

Here he gives audience, ffuing out decrees

:

Ijoperime'trical. «. /. [iV®-, Tifi.and

;

To rivers, his dependant deities.

birth, carry with them difficulties, not poflible to
confill with this hypothefis.
Liclie.

being probably at firft only a wing or fide
walk. It may come likewife from alUe,
French, a walk.]
A long walk in a
church or publick building.

Clar,nd«..

,

Dryden's JEtt.

corruptly for aile,
from aile, Fr, from- ala, Latin, the aile

O'er the twilight groves and dufky caves,
long founding i^« and intermingled graves
Black melancholy fits.

Uecp in a rocky cave he makes abode,

A manfion proper for a mourning god

The frequent produflions of monfters, in all the
fpecies of animals, and ttrange
iffues of human

I think,

Ilo'sCELES. n. f.
gular triangle. \

f
m

I

If the eouncil IJueJ
any oiiler «|alnll theiH,
or It the kingfent a proclamation
for their repair
to their houfes, ftme noblemen
publilhed a oro'='*«"'"!

True Paradife, under the the /«;thiop line

The inftalment of this noble duke
In the feat royal of 'is famous Iflt.

2. [Written,

i s

Nor where Abatfin kings their i^c guard.
Mount Amara, though tins by fome fuppos'd

2.

It is ufed abfolutely for the ftate ol a
perfon or affair.

It is

How is // with our general i

— Even

commonly followed by a particle, eut or

—

firli.

As with a man by his own alms impoilbn'd,

'

fo

A id with hii charity (lain,
6 r 2

Shakrfp Coriolanus.
'

u

T C

I

I

U nfed for the thing; the matter;

3. It

amples, though fome of them are equivocal.

Shakifp.tltnry VIII.

Mailer Shallow, you have yourfelf been a great
man of peace. Mr. Page,
though now I be old, and of the peace, if I fee a
fword out, my finger itches to make one.
Sbake/p.
CalTius, you yourfelf
Are much condemn'd to have an itching palm,
To fell and mart your offices for gold.
Shakefp.
The itching cars being an epidemick difeafe, gave
fairopportunity to every mountebank. £)<•«_> of Piety.
All fuch have ftill an itching to deride.
And fain would be upon the laughing tide.
Pope.

4. // is Sometimes exprefled by /.

fighter, though now a

He rallied, and again fell to V ;
For catching foe by nearer foot,
He lifted with fuch might and ftrength.
A> would have hurl'd him thrice his length, Hudit.
The defign '/ feemt, is to avoid the dreadful imSiuift.

putation of pedantry.

5

/f is ufed ludicroufly after neutral verbs,
to give an emphafis.
If Abraham brought all with him, it is not pro-

.

bable that he

meant to walk ii back again for his

I'tchy.

The Lacedemonians, at the ftraighls of Thermopylsr, when their arms failed them, fought/; out
Dryden.
with their nails and teeth.
I have often feen people lavilh it profufely in
tricking up their children, and yet Aaivc their
jMie.
minds.
The mole courfes it not on the ground, like the
Addifon.
rat or moufe.but lives under the earth.

A word ufed
when any article is added to the former.

1'tem.»./.
I could have looked on him without the help of
admiration, though the catalogue of his endowments

had been tabled by his fide and I to perufe him by

Pope.

ly, or rudely to perfons.
Let us after him.
Whofe care is gone before to bid us Welcome :
Sialte/f. Macbeth.
// ita peerlefs kinfman.
Do, child, go to /Vgrandam, child :
iti
grandam will
Give grandam kingdom, and
Sb.ikefpeare^s Kirrg yobn.
Give it up him.

fometimes ufed of the firft or
fecond perfon, fometimes of mote. This
mode of fpeech, though ufed by good
authors, and fupported by the il j a of
the French, has yet an appearance of

7. /;

Who was't came by ?

—

'T/j two or three,

my lord, that bring you word

MacdulTis fled to England.

.

&haiejf. Macbeth.

City,

Shak. Coriolanus.
•7i« I, that made thy widows.
'Tit thefe that early taint the female foul. Pcfe.

not concluded our weaknefs,
I have one item more of mine
if knowledge can
be found, I mul^ lofe that which 1 thought 1 had,
that there is none.
Gtanv.
-Ti?

Iterate, f. a. [itero, Lat.]

I.

To repeat

to utter again ; to inculcate

by frequent mention.

We covet to make the pfalms efpecially familiar
unto all : this is the very caul'e why we iieyate the
Pfalms oftener than any other part of Scripture
befidcs :

the caufc \^herefore

we

inure the people
together wiih their minii^er, and not the miniltcr
alone, to read them, as other parts of fcripture he
doth.
Hooker.
In the firll ages God gave laws unto our fathen,
and their me.Tiories ferved inftead of books; whereof
the imperfedtions being known to God, he relieved
the fame by often putting them in mind : in which
iterated into the bell and wifeft.

Honker.

The king, to keep a decency towards the French

body with

fmall puftules filled with a

thin ferum,

Bac^tn's Henry VII.

A cutaneous difeafe extremely conta-

Lu() and liberty
Creep in the minds and marrows of our youths.
That 'gainfl the Dream of virtue they may ftrive,
And drown themfelves in riot, itchet, bUins. Shuk.
The Lord will fmite thee with the fcab and with
the itch, whereof thoucan'll not be healed.

Dtut xxviii. 27.

As if divinity had catch'd

The ilch on purpofe to be fcratch'd.

fiudibrai.

The fenfation of uneafmefs in the Ikin,

2.

which is eafed by rubbing.
3. A conllant tcazing defire.
L'EJiru>tge.
natters, puts us upon (hifiing.
He had-ftill pedigree in his head, and an itch ol

being thought a divine king.

Drjden.

From i'ervani's company a child iste be kept, not
not by prohibitions, for that will but give 'him an
ilcb after it, but by other ways.
Locke.
At half mankind when gcn'rous Manly raves.
All know 'tis virtue, for he thinks them icuaves :

Whenuniverfal homage Umbra pays,
Alt fiK 'tis vice, and itcb of vulgar praife.
y« Itch. a». «. [from the noun.]

There be two kinds of refleiftions ol founds ; the
one at didance, which is the echo, wherein the
original is heard dillini^ly, and the refletlion alfo
dillinAly : the otlier in concurrence, vwhen the
found returneth immediately upon the original, and
fo ittrateth it not, but amplilieth it.
hacan.

repetition.

Hammond.

I'tinerant. adj. [itinerant, Fr.]

Alhes burnt, and well reverberated by fire, after
the fait thereof hath been drawn out by iterated
decodions.
Browi,
Adam took no thought.
Eating his fill j nor Eve Co iterate
Her former tti^fpafs fcar'd, the more tofooth
Him with her lov'd fociety. Milton's Paradife laji.

It (hould

_

Lat.]

Fr.

iteratio,

Itse'lf, pronoun, [il ani/e//.]

The neutral
reciprocal pronoun applied to things.
Who then (hall blame
His peller'd fenfes, to recoil and ftart.
When all that is within him does condemn
///(•//"for being there

Sbake/p. Macbeth.

.'

Borrowing of foreigners,

in ii/e!/, makes not the

kingdom rich or poor.

Ju'bilant. adj.

Locke,

[jn'ilatts, Latin.]

Ut-

tering fon^s of triumph.

The planets lift'ning flood.
While the bright pomp afccnded jubilant. Milton,

Jubila'tion »./. [jubilation, Fr. jtibilatio,
Lat.]
1 he aft of declaring triumph.
Ju'bilee. »./. [jiibd(,Yt. jiibiluin, from
juhilo, low Lat.J
A publick feftivity ;
a time of rejoicing
a feafon of joy.
;

Angels utt'ringjoy, heav'n rung
VIkhjuiiler, and loud hofannas filled

Th' eternal regions.

Milton's Parail/t Lojl,
Joy was then a mafculine and a fevere thing, the
recreation of the judgment, or rejoicing i\x jubilee
ofreafon.

South.

The town was all ijubilee of feafts.

Jucu'nbity.

n. /.

DiyJen.

[jucunditat,jucundHS,

Heafantnefs ; agreeablenefs.
The new or m-xx^Slti jucuiidities, which prefcnt

Lat.]

themfelves, will have activity
earthieft foul, and raife a fmile

enough to excite the
from the mod com-

pofcd tempers.

Judas

Brown,

A

Tree, »,/. [ftliquaftrum, Latin.]

plant.

Judas tree yields a 4ne purplilli, bright, red
blotlbm in the fpring, and is increafed by layers.
Mortimer's Hu/bandry,

To Joda'ise. -v. n. [judai/er, Fr, judaic,
low Lat.] To conform to the manner
of the Jews.
Vm\ji.dai:i'd with the Jews, was all to all. Sand.

JUDGE, n,/. [juge, Y.. judex. Lat.J
1.

One who is invefted with authority to
determine any caufe or queflion, real or
perfonal
Shall not thcyatd^e of all the earth do right }
Genefis.

A fitther of the fatherlefs, and * judge of the
widows, is God in his holy habitation.
P/alms,
Thou art Judge

Of all things made, and judgeft only right.
2.

Milt.

One whoprefides in a court of judicature.
My lord BalTanio gave Ins ring away
Unto \.\k judge that bcgg'd it. Shak. Mer. ofytuict.
A fingle voice ; and that not pall me, but
By learned approbation of theyW^f. Shak. H. VIII.

Sbake/p.

My hulband

How dares your pride.

Ay, 'twas he liiat tuld me firft.
Pope.

mod

He did make a progrcfs from Lincoln to the northern parts, though it was rather
an itinerary
circuit of juftice than a progrefs.&ifca'j Htniy V 11

Repetition ; recital over again.

My hulband

in

meets with
Addi/on on Italy.

Iti'nerary. adj. [iliiteraire,Yi. ititierarita,
Lat.]
Travelling; done on a journey;
done during frequent change of place.

Truth tir'd with iteration

As true as ileel, at plaiuage to the moon.

fufficienily reproached,

in this plentiful kingdom.

Repeating.

\ittralUii,

The clergy are

itinera'

itinerariei, for the univerfal poverty one

BatonU Natural Hijfory.
n. f.

my care to fweeten and mellow ibe

Iti'nerary. «. /, [itineraire, Fr.
rium, Lat.]
A book of travels.

beiiig near,

Itera'tion.

be

voices of itinerant tradefmen, as alfo to accomodate
their cries to their refpeflive wares.
Addi/. Sped.

make a current echo; but
being farther oo, they make an iterant echo.
Waters

Wan-

dering ; not fettled.

To do over again.

z.

I'terant. adj. '\Jterani,\ Lat.

A certain ifi-h of meddling with other people's

improved by the frequent lltrathn ai.<

refpedl we lee how many times one thing hath been

gious, which overfpreads the

andraifcd.asmicrofcopeshavedifcovered,
by a fmall animal. It is cured by fulphur.

As in a lifted field to nght yourcaufe,

!

UnalX'd the royal grant ; nor marlhal by.

What needs this iteration, woman ?

As knightly iitcs require, dot judge to try ? Diydcn,

fay, thy hulband.

Shati/p. Otbelit.
tierationt are commonly loft of time ; but there
is no fuch gain of time, as to iterate often the llate
of the quellion ; for it chafeth away many a frivolous

It is nut luiiicient 10 imitate nature in every circuinllance dully : it becomes a painter to take what

Wy v^ant of tranfpiration.
tTi/eman'iSurgtty,
My tkht eye itrlei ; fome good luck is near ;

fpeech.

own art.

Fcthafs my Amaryllis may appear.

engage the (tceivci Co pcrfcvcrc ia

I.

To feel that uneafincfs in the ikin which
is removed by

rubbing.

A troublefome hching 01 the part was occalioned
«

;

U D

farther

is

:

king, fent new lolemn ambalTadors to intimate unto
him the decree of his edates, and to iterate his
motion that the French would defill from hollility.

1.

'

Sbake/p.

I f this difcourfe have

ITCH. »./. [jicha, Saxon.

•

'

A hint; an Inuendo.

2.

is

barbarifm.

.

A new article.

1.

ilcmt.

Sometimes applied familiarly, ludicrouf-

InfcAed with

iVrA.]

FTEM. adti. [Latin.] Alfo.

Whether the charmer finner it, or faint it.
If folly grows romaotick, 1 muft paint it.

[from

ailj.

the itch.

Ra/ei'gb.

pleafure.

6.

J

to have continual delire.
This fenie appears in the following ex-

the affair.
h't come to pafi,
Th«« traAableobcdicnce is a (lave

To each incenfed will.

T E

To long;

2.

Diydtn.

I

is moll

Bacon' 1 EJfayt.

In all thefe refpefls, it hath a peculiar property to
all piciy, and

3.

beautiful, as being

the foveteign_;'arf'gf of his

Dryden.

One who has (kill fufficient to decide
upon the merit of any thing.
Ooe

I

JUD

J U D
We

One court there is in which he who knows the
Shtrhck,

fecrets of every heart will itjujgf h\mCe\[.

7'a

Judge, "v.

cs author

Burn. Theory.
Reafon ought to accompany the exercife of our
fcnfes, whenever we would form a ju!t judgment of

Pofr.

writ.

things propofed to our inquiry.

[j^gtr, Fr judico, Lac]

a.

To

pafs fentence.
1.
My wrong be upon thee; the horijuJge between
Genejis.
thee and me.
\i. judge not for man, but for the Lord, who is
2. Chron.
with you in the judgment.

and impropriety

For (he is wife, if 1 can judge aright.

Sbakefp.

toyW^^of them freely.

How doth God know ? Can \\t judge through the
dark cloud >
"Job.xin. 13.
jfudge in youifelves : is it comely a woman pray
^. f^^
I Cor. li. 13.
unto God uncovered T
How properly the tories may be called the whole
body of the Britilli nation, I leave to any one's
judging.
AddiJ^n.

To

2.

Shakefp. HenryWW.
The chief priefts informed me, defiring to have
ywtfVmfw/ againft him.
A^s xxv. 15.
On Adam hA thisjudgment be pronounc'd.

Coi.

ii.

The vulgar threatened to be their oppretlbrs, and
judgers of their judges.
f^'»g Cbarlet.
I'hey who guide themfclves merely by what appears, are ill judgeri of what they have not well
Dlgby.
examined.

9.

between one term or one propofition and
another.
Ojudgmeni! thou art fled to br>itil>i hearts.
And men have loft their reafon. Shak "Julius Ctrfar.

The faculty, which God has given man to fupply
the want of certain knowledge, k judgment, wherewithout perceiving a demonftrative evidence in the
Locke.

10. Diftribution of juftice.
The jews made infurreOion againrt Paul, and
brought him to the judgment feat*
A£1s xviii. 12,
Yourdifhonour
Mangles xiaejudgment, and bereaves the ftate
Shak,
Of that integrity which fho^^ld become it.
\n judgments between rich and poor, confider not
the
nun
needs,
but
what
his
own.
what
paor
is
Taylor.

A bold and wife petitioner goes (Itait to the throne
Ariulhsiot aud Pope,

1 2.

1.

Sbahfpeare.

He fetch'd 'em drink,
FiU'da largeyi^upto thebrink.
joculari, Lat.]

To play tricks by flight of hand ; to
(how falfe appearances of extraordinary

1

performances.

The ancient miracle of Mcmnon's (latue feems
to be ^juggling of the Ethiopian priefts.

2 Kings.

That palter with us in a double (enfe. Shak. Macb,
Is'l polfiblc the fpclls of France ihouldy^jf^/r

not into bounty and
Atttrbury.

Difdain'd to tlay for friends confents ;
'Hot juggVd 2t\io\n fettlements.

;

decifion.

1.

A trick by legerdemain.

2.

An impofture

Where diilin^ions or
is

identities are purely mamade by the imagination,

tlherwife bjf the undcrlUodiog.

GUitvMt'tHiepfis.

Court of juftice.
In judicatures, to lake away the trumpet, the

fcarlet, the atlcadacce, miikcs juflicc naked as

H blind,

;

a deception.

The notion was not the invention of politicians,
and a juggle of ftate to cozen the people into obe-

Ju'cGLER. n. f. [ itom juggle.

The honour of the judges in their judicature is
the king's honour.
Bacon's Ad-vice to yUliers.
I f he Ihould bargain for a place of judicaturi',
let
Bacon.
him be rejcifcd wnh (hame.
2.

tludibras.

Juggle. »./. [from the verb.]

dience.

Power of diftributiiigjufiice.

O

Shakefp.

They ne'er forfworc themfclves, nor lied,

Ju'uic.\TURE. n.f. [judicatttre,Yt. judico,

When thou, () Lord, (halt l>and difclos'd

'

Digby.

o pra(Jtife artifice or impofture.

Men into fuch Itrangc mockeries ?

Court of jnfticc.
Human judicatories give fentence on matters of

1.

'I

Be thefe juggling hcnds r.omore believ'd,
Sbakefp.

Diftribution of juftice.

bcnehcence.

Sbtikeff.

Sivift,

To Ju'ggle. f. n. [jtugler 01 jongler, Fr.

courtoijudi:atoiy, would judge worthy of death.
Clarendon.

In majefty fc^ere.
And fit \t\judgiMtnt on my foul,
how (hall 1 appear ?
Addifon*i Spe^iator.

the judgment

You'd rail upon the hoftefs of the houfe,
Becaufclhe bought ftone/»^i and no feal'd quarts.

Lat.l

They gave judghienl upon him.

terial,

ing vefiel with a gibbous or fwelling

No fuch crime appeared as the lords, the fupremc

2.

Dryden.

A large drink-

belly.

Ju'dicatorv. » /. [/W;Va, Lat.]

right and wroi.g, but inquire

Theadl ofexercifing judicature; judi-

rifes to excellence.

Jug. n.f.\Jugge, Danilli.]

2.

The imilul judgment day
So dreadful will not be as was his fight.

catory.

4. Determination

The laft doom.

Dryd.

Longinus has judicioujly preferred the fublime
genius that fometimes errs to the middling or indiflierent one, which makes few faults, but feldom

11. Judiciary law ; flatute.
If ye hearken to thekjudgmenl!, and keep and do
them, the Lord thy Cod Ihall keep unto thee the
covenant.
Deut,

judgment.
If my fufpeft be falfe, forgive me, God
for judgment only doth belo:ig to thee.

So bold, yet iojudicioujly you dare.

That your leaft praife is to be regular.

»ai judgment feat of the monarch.

together
fo, this tree is high.

or power of paffing

Locke.

JuDi'ciousLY.oi/t/. [from/W/Woar.] Skilfully ; wifely; with juft determination.

Shakefp. King Lear.

than to interpret afRiAions as puniihments zr\i judgments : it aggravates the evil to him who fuffers,
when he looks upon himfelf as the mark of divine
vengeance.
Addifon's SpeSfator.

Milton.

We

are beholden to y»(/;Wo»j writers of all ages
for thofe difcoveties they haveleft behind them.

Til/otf'jn.

Punifhment inflifted by Providence,
with reference to fome particular crime.

Prumatter or

in any

And palate zM judicious,

We cannot be guilty of greater uucharitablenefs,

IValti.

3.

in judgment againft us, and the

tremble.

yudgment is that whereby we join ideas

the right

rife up

Touches us not with pity.

by the mind takes any propotition to be true or falfe,
proofs.

16.

This judgment of the heavens that makes us

Ju'dgment. n.f. \^jugfment,Yt.'\
1. The power of difcerning the relations

;

Rom.v.

articles of our faith will be fo many articles of accu-

P/. ex. 6.

Lctno jma judge you in meator drink.

Doom

of many offences unto juftification.
\

(kilful

For your hulband.
He's noble, -viVe, judicious, and bed knows
The fits o' ih' fealbn.
Shakefp. Macbeth.
Love hath his feat
In reafon, and is judicious.
Milton.
To each favour meaning we apply.

The precepts, promifes, and threatenings of the

He (hall judge among tlie heathen, he fhall fill

by affirmation or negation ;

is

wife ;

[judlcieux. Fr.]

afiair.

Tht judgment was by one to condemnation ; but
the free gift

doom fe-

Ju'dcer. tt. J. [from judge.'] One who
formsjudgment ; or pafles fentence.

dent ;

This is a theological

fation.

Mattheiu.

Boyle.

JUDI'CIOUS. adj.

ufe.

but in the Scriptures.

2.

Condemnation.

Gofpel will

the places with the dead bodies.
yudge nor, that ye be not judged.

Before weight be laid upon judiciary aftrologers,
the influence of conftellations ought to be made out.

Milloti.

This is a fcnfe feldom found

vercly.

thing.

With agony.

to examine au-

fevere cenfure ; to

pafs

JuDl'clARY. adj. [jttdiciare,Yr.judician'ur,
Latin.]
Paffing judgment
upon any

When he was brought again to th* bar, to hear
His knell rung out, hisjudgment, he was llirr'd

Te Judge, "v. a.
thoritatively ; to determine finally.
Millm.
Chaos flialiyxd'gf the ftrife.
Tlien thofe, whom form of laws
Condemn'd to die, when traitors yW^^'^ their caufe.
Dryden,

and anions in the balance of infallible juftice, and
fame judgment which he intends hereihtijudicially to declare.
Grew.
palling the

Sentence againft a criminal.

8.

In

[itora judicial. \

the forms of legal juftice.

Draw the inward quality after them.

accurately.

South.

JuDi'ciALLY. fli/z;.

It will behove us to think that we fee God Hill
looking on, and weighing all our thoughts, words«

To fuBer all alike.
Sbakefp. Ant. and Cleopatra.
When (he did think my mafter lov'd her well.
She, in my judgment, was as fair as y«u.
Shakefp.

Locke.

;

The refiftance of thofe will caufe i judicial hard-

A parcel of their fortunes, and things outward

7.

Bemley.

Inflifted on as a penalty.

nefs

Opinion ; notion.

6.

to diftinguifti ; to confider

To pafs fentence upon

2.

Dennis.

Loch.
evident.
He proceed! in his inquiry into fciences, refolved

1,

oath?_

faculty, attends not

a man in the rapture of poetical cprnpofition.

Milt.

able to judge, by the copies, which was Virgil and
Dryden,
which Ovid.
Whether it be a divine revelation or no, reafon
inuftyWjg^f, which can never permit the mind to
rejed a greater evidence, to embrace what is lefs

;

What government can be without judicial proAnd what judicature witliout a religious

ceedings i

criticifm.

Judgment, a cool and (low

If I did not know the originals, I fliould never be

To difcem

juftice.

I fee sntn*i judgments are

Authors to themfelvcs,
Both what iheyyW^gc and what they chufe.

3.

;

Praftifed in the diftribution of publick

1.

IVatts.

*Tis with OWT judgments 2l^ our watches, none
Go juft alike ; yet each believes his own.
Pope.

Beftirew me, but I love her heartily ;

JUDI'CIAL. adj. [judicitm, Lat.]

The quality of diftinguifliing propriety

5.

To form or give an opinion.

2.

JUG'

make a certainy»i/^»f/ what kind of

diflblution that earth was capable of.

A pcrfeft juJge will read each piece of wit,
With the fame ^iritthi

fliall

well

SiiUih.

I.

Tillotfon.
'\

One who praftifes flight of hand; one
who deceives the eye by nimble con«

veyance.
They lay this town is full of cozenage.
As nimbleywg^/,rj that deceive the eye,
Drug-workiijg lurocrers ihjf change the mind,
Uilguifed cheaters, prating mountebanks,

Aul many fuch like libettiacs of fin.

Sbakefp.
I law

yuL
uA wsuld
Bacon.

Arllbeus was i famous poet, that flouiilhed in
thedaysofCrffifus, and a notaMejtiggler. Sandyi.
Fortune-lcUcni JKggleri, and impoiters, do daily
Brown's Vulgar Errours.
delude them.
Tht juggltr which another's (light can fhow,

but teaches how the world his own may know.
Carib.

One who is managed by a Jugglfr fancies he

has

money in hand j but let him grafp it never lo carefullyi upon a word or two it increafesor dwindles.

AJJifon't t'reeboldir.

What magick makes our money rife,

When dropt into the fouthcrn main ;
Or do thefe jugglers cheat our eyes ?

Sviift.

A cheat a trickilh fellow.
O me, you jugg/fr; oh, you canker blolTomi

2,

Sbahcff.

[from

Donite.

a deceptive manner.
Jd'gular. adj. [jugulum,

j'igglt-'\

Latin.]

IVifeman's Surgrry.

JUICE, n.f. \jm, Fr. juys, Dutch.]
1. The liquor, fap, or water of plants and
fruits.
If I define wine, I muftfay, wine i« a /i/w, not
liquid, or wine is a fubftance ; lor juice includes both
H'alU.
iiibllance and liquid.

Unnumber'd fruits,

A friendlyyHW'f to cjol thirft'stage contain. TSow/is.
The fluid in animal bodies.

language is thin, fcarce covering the bone.
Ben'J^nJon's Difcovery.
An animal whofc juices are unfuund can never be
/u/Vu
never rcpainhe fluids.
uafound
can
aouiiOied:

Arhutbnot,
adj. [fromy««r^.] Dry;

with-

out moifture ; without juice.
Divine Providence has fpread her table every

where ; not with a juiceUfi green carpet, but wiih
More.
fucculcnt herbage and nourilhing grafs.

When Boreas' fpirit blufters fore.
Beware th' inclement heav'nsj now let thy hearth
Crackle with yW.v/^ boughs,

Ju'iciNEss. n.f.

Phillifi,

[fromya/f .] Plenty of

juice ; fucculence.

Iv'lCY. adj. [hom juite.^

Moift ;

full of

juice ; nicculent.
Earth being taken out of watery woods, will put
Bacon.
mi
Milton.
The mulk's furpalfing worth that, in its youth,
Its tender nonage, loads the fpreading boughs
With large ini juicy oHipring,
Phillips.

juicy fubftance.
forth herbs of a fat
Each plant and /ff/V/V^ gourd will pluck.
!

July

I

7"ff

Latin.]

form of a rofe. The
fruit is like a fmall plum, but it has little

upon the ftone.
Miller.
Ju'lap. n. J. [A word of Arabick original; y'« «//'«»», low Lat./a/r^, Fr.]
fleih

"Juhf is an estemporancous form of medicine,
made 01 fimple and compound water fweetened, and
fcr' es I'oi a vehicle

to other

•v.

forms not fo convenient
i^ttintj

Hudibru.
Good Wits jump, and mine the nimbler of the two.
More.

Good n«w, how your devotiont jump with mine
I

7a Jump.

and arc ordered
than that the univerfc is mere bungling
and blundering; all ill-favourcdiy cobbled and y^/mbled together by the unguided agitation and rude
fliuffles of matter ?
Bentley.
How tragedy and comedy embrace,
How farce and epick get a jumbled race.
Pope.
That the univerfe was formed by a fortuitous
concourfe of atoms, 1 will no more believe, than
that the accidental jumbling of the alphabet would
fall into a mofi ingenious treatife of phiiofophy.

v. J.

[jumfitt,

Fr, jumentum,

Beaft of burthen.

I.

To leap; to flcip;

:

our fortune lie*

Sbakefp. Ant. and Cleopatra,
Upon this jump.
A wailtcoat ; a kind
3. [Jupe, French.]
of loofc or limber ftays worn by fickljr

ladies.
The weeping caflbck fcar'd into a jump,
fign the prelbytcr's worn to the (lump. Cleavetand,

A

Ju'ncate. n.y. \_juncade, Vt.gioncata ItalJ.
1

jfuments, as hurfes, oxen, and afles, have nu
eruilition, or belching.
Brtmm's Vulgar Errours.

Cheefecake

a kind

;

of fvvectraeat of

curds andfugar.
2.

To Jump, ti, n. [gumpen, Dutch.]

ftrides j

Do not exceed
The prefcript of this fcrowl

Hlvift.

jtafticc.

large

A lucky chance.

2.

'

hypothcfis had been
Glanville.
What jtimile htn is made of ecclefiaftical revenues, as if they were all alienated with equal

to move without ftep

Any delicacy.
A goodly table of pure ivory.
All fpread withyV/Kj.vj, fit to enlertam

or Aiding.
Not the word of the three but jumps twelve foot

The greatLil prince.

and an half by the fq^arc. Siakejp, Winter's Tale.
The \\iTizou\t jhmpiftg by me.
And fearlefs. quench ihe:r ihiifl, while 1 look on

How lairy Mab the juncates eat.

And take me tor their fellow-citiien.
So have 1 feen from Severn's brink,

A ft>ck of ^ztitjumf down together.

Dryden.

Obfolete.

let that, which he fet»
himfelf to learn next, be as nearly conjoined with
Ltckt.
what he knows already, as is poflible.

S^uiy't.

this

nicely.

;

jumps, and

They will all meet and jumble together, into a

tolerable.

;

The fureft way foi a learner is, not to advance by

S'^ift.

[from the verb]
Confufed mixture ; violent and confufed agi-

a leap; to

Jump, n.J. [from the verb,]
a leap; a (kip.
1. The aft of jumping

To Ju'mbi.e. i;. n. Tobe agitated together.

». /.

by

pafj

Oiherwife one vsan could not exccll anothci, but
all Ihould be either abfolutcly good, as hittingyVm^
that indiviuMe poiiit or center wherein goodneiG
conftllcih ; or clfe mifling it, they (hould be excluded
Hooker,
out of the number of well-doers.
But fince iojump upon this bloody qucftion.
the
Polack
wars,
and
you
Irom
England,
from
You
Sbakefp. Hamltt,
Are here arriv'd.
Myfelf the while to draw the Moor apart.
And bring \i\m jump, where he may Cartio find
Sbakefp. Othello.
Soliciting his wife.

believe that all things were created,

fortuitous jumble,

To

a.

Jump. adv.Y.x.ifWy

for the beiV,

perfcdl harmony.

Pope to Siui/'t.
-v.

pafs eagerly orcarelefsly over.
Here, upon this bank and Ihclve of time.
We'd jump the life to come.
Sbakefp, Macielk,

Shall, well as Dryden, form a poem.
Prior.
Is it not a firmer foundation for tranquility, to

Ju'mble.

am happier for finding our judgments jump ia

the notion.

Writingisbutjuft like dice.

And lucky mains make people wile^
And jumbled words if fortune throw *env

!

Dryden,

Locke,

pofed

Hudibiai,

For as a fly that goes to bed,
Relli with his tail above his head ;
So in this mungiel Hate of ours.
The rabble are the fupreme powers.

[in Chaucer, jomhre,

a.

A verbal concordance leads not always to texts of
the fame meaning ; and one may obferve, how apt
that is \o jumble together palfages of Scripture, and
thereby difturb the true meaning of holy Scripture.

whofc flower confifts
which a e placed circu

larly, and expand in

Their arms and c<iuipage did ht,

As well as virtues, parts, and wit.
This (hewshow perfectly the rump
And commonwealth, in nature yum^ t

L'EJirange.

Latin.]

[xiziphris,

Never did trufty fquire with knrght.

Or knight with fquire, e'cx jump mote right;

Pcrfons and humours may be jumbled and difguifed; but nature, like quickfilvcr, will never be

A

4d take alooc

Sbakefp.
Herein perchance he jumps not with Lipfius.

from combler, French, Skinner.^ To mix
violently and confufedly together.

plant

of fcveral leaves,

And rank me with the barb'rous nations.

Hake^vill.

Jumble,

Ju'msnt.

:

n.f.

Yet do they all confirm a Turkiih fleet.
Sbakefp.
Bccaufc J will tioi jump with common fpints.

Mules and jumarti, the one from the mixtut* of
an afs and a mare, the other from the mixture of
Locke,
a bull and a mare, are frequent.

Two alTcs travelled ; the one laden with oats, the
the money-mcrchanl was fo
other with money
proud of his truft, that he v/tnt juiing and tolling of
L'EJirange.
his head.
I

But though they J!tmp not o[i a juft account.

or the

Mad the woild been coagmented from that fup-

denotes ftill any
complaifance by bending of the head.

J

Do not embrace me till each ciicumftancc
Of place, time, fortune, do cohere and jump
Ihat 1 am Viola.
Sbakefp. Ttvel/tb Night.
In fome fort it jumps with my humour. Sbakefp,

would hace drawn in a jacket of light
with his face and bofom
Peacham.

tation.

2. Jukiiig, in Scotland,

Ju'jUB.

Nab, iii. x.

JUMART. »./. [French.]

To perch upon any thing as birds.

J.u'jt^BES.

and of the

yellow, eating cherries,
funburnt.

Te Juke. f. ». [jucher, French.]
I

quitttillis,

killed.

yutce in language is Icfs than blood ; for if the
words be but becoming and fignifying, and the fcnfc
eentle, there is juice: but where that wanteih, the

Jui'cELESS;

of the prancing horfes,

from March, named July in honour
of Ji^ius Cat/ar; the feventh month from

Be-

A gentleman was wounded into the internal ju-

a.

The noife

jumping chariots.
4. To agree ; totally; to join.

Millar.

anciently called

To jolt.

3.

January.

longing to the throat.
gular, through his neck.

One Peregrinus jumped into a fiery fu'nice at
the Olympick games, only to (hew the company hoy
Collier.
far his vanity would carry him.
fee a little, prefume a great deal, and hjumf
to the condufion.
SpeQalor.

fifth

In

To leap fuddenly.

2.

Ju'lv. ». /. [Julius, hM.juilUl, Fr.] The

month

Toofficer, juggler, or jullice of peace.

among botanifts, denotes

thofe long worm-like tufts or palms, as
they are called in willows, which at the
beginning of the year grow out, and hang

fingnoharm

Ju'gclincly. aJv.

»Va<^.

Svsifii

Candidates petition the emperor to entertain {lie
court with a dance on the rope, and whoever y«rjB^
the highcft fuccceds in the omce.Gulliver't Travcli.

Wc

i£c.

You thief of love ; what, have you come by night,

And ftol'n my love's heart from him.

Swim where the bird of Jove would fink.
And fwimming never wet a feather.

Ju'lus. » /.
X. July fli'wer.
2. Jtilus.

U N

J

Behold this eoti'tHjulaf here.
That flames and dances in his chryllal bounds
With fpirits of balm and fragrant fyrrups mixt.
Milton.
If any part of the after-birth be left, endeavour
the bringing that away ; and by good fudorificks
and cardials expel the venom, and contemperate the
heat and acrimony hyjti/aj>s and emulfions.
ffymian'i Surgery.

pend«lar down from hazels, walnut- trees,

;

1

U M

J

I ftw ijuggltr that had a pair of caril,
tell a man what card he thought.

Spcnfer.

With ftorus told of many a feat,
3.

Milim.

A furtive or private entertainment.

It

now improperly written jutAct in this
fenfc, which alone remains much in ufe.
See Junket.

is

.

}

Ju'hcows.

J
Ju'ucons. adj.

UN

\jutictus,

J U R

Lat.]

of

Full

bulrufhes.

Union;

Ju'mction. «.y; [/wkffwa Fr.]

From

coalition.
the junUlon of the two corps, our fpics
Add'ijon,

Upon

dircovered a great cloud of dult.

Jtr'NCTi/RE. ».y [junSura, Latin.)

The line at which two things are joined

1.

together.
grofler

elements

of bodies, fait,
fulphur, and meri:ury, there may be ingredients of
a more fubtile natjie, which being extremely little,
may efcape unhceiled at \!nt juncluret ot the diftillatory veflcls, thoui,h never fo careluUy luted, ^y/r.
licfides

thofc

Nor are the fobereft of them

weighing three hundred and thirty pounds : thefe
i-vory tulks are hollow from the bafe to a certain
height, and the cavity is filled with a compail me-

as

June

Draw Erato with .t fweet and lovely countenance,
bearing a he.irt with an ivory key.
Peacham.
From their ivory port the cherubim
Forth iffu'd.

True vifions through tranfparent horn aiife.
Through polifh'd iVr;' pafs deluding lies.
Dryden.

Juppo'n. n. /. \j<ppon, Fr.] A Ihort clofe
coat.
Some wore a breaft-plate and a \\^\ juppon
Their horfcs cloth'd vvitii rich caparilbn.
Dryden,

Who wifely thought my age a fcreen.
When death approach'd to lland between.
nature of

repining at the rife of
ftribution of wealth.

my Juniors, and unequal di-

A contumacious perfon may be compelled to give
juratory caution de parendojuri, Ayliffe's Parergon.
J vri'dical. adj.
1.

Afting in the diftribution of juftice.

2.

Ufed in courts of juftice.
According to ayK/7(//Va/ account and legal ftgnificaiion, time within memory, by the Itatuie of
Weftminfter, was fettled in the beginning of the
reign of king Richard the Firll.
Hale,

jultice.

One who gives his opinion in cafes of law.
There

A tree.

bay, and juniftr beriies, with oil oi

IHJeman.

See

A fweetmeat.

1,

Legal authority ; extent of power.

HayUJard.

You know, there wants no juniett at the fea(^.

From Heav'n's highjurifdiliiin.
Milton,
As Adam had no luch power as gavs him fove-

A ftolen entertainment.

Te Ju'nicet. v. /t. [from the noun.]
X,

To feaft fecrctly

;

it\%,n jurijdiBion over mankind.

Locke.
cuflnm in a popular ilate, of impeaching
particular men, may fcem to be nothing elfe but

to make entertainments

'i'liis

by Health.

the

Whatever good bits you can pilfer in the day, fave
S-u'ifl.

job's children junketid u\i feaAed together often,
South.
but the reckoning cott them dear at lall.
The apoltle woiild have no revelling or junket ifig.
South.

JL'NTO.
kind

n. f.

[Italian.]

A cabal

of men combined in any

;

a

fecrct

own jurif.

2.

S-wiji.

Diftridt to which any authority extends.

jurijfrudentia, Latin.]

[jurifpnidence, Fr.

The

fcience of

law.

A
Ju'rist. n.f. [jurijie, Vt. jttra, Lat.]
civil lawyer ; a man who profcfles the
fcience 01 the law ; a civilian.
This is not to be meafurcd by the principles of

dclign.

Would men have fpent toilfome days and watchnights in the laborious queit of knowledge pre^ativc to this work, at length come aod dance
liil

aaeaJanct

chuling to exercile their

Jurispru'dence. »./.

To feaft.

2.

peop;e*s

di^ion in pciion.

them u> junkti with your fcUow-fervants at night.

for

approbation upon a /«»/« of petty

Bacon.

jurijli.

n.f. [juro, Latin.]
ferves on the jury.

Ju'ror.

perfonal or real, is ref^-rred for the fa6l to aywryi and
as they hnd ir, fo pafleth the judgment.

This jury

ufed not or>!y in circuits of juftices errant, but
alfo in other couits, and matters ol office, as, if
the cfchea'ourmake inquiiition in any thing touching
his office, lie doth it by a jury ol inqueft : if the
coroner inquire how a fuhj^ft found dead came to his
end, he ufcth an inqueli : the juftices of peace in
the quarter-fciiions, the flierin in his county and
turn, the bailiff of a hundred, the iteward of a
court-leet or court-baron, it they inquire of any
offence, or decide any caufe between party and party,
they do it b) the fame m;inner
fo that where it is
faid, that all things be triable by parliament, battle,
or affize ; alTizc, in this place, is taken for aywr)* or
inqueli, empaniiclled upon any caufe in a court where
tlni kind of trial is ufed.
This jury^ though It
appertain to moft courts of the common law, yet it
is moft notorious in the half-year courts of ihejullices
:

errants,

commonly called

the great affize-, and in

the quaitei-feffions, and in them it is mollordiiiarily
called a^iery* ^""^ *'^'^^ '" *^'^'' caules ; whereas in

In the
other courts it is often termed an inrjiicft.
general affize, there are ufually manyywnVj, becaufc
there be fforc of caufes, both civil and cr:minal,

commonly

to be tried, whcreot one is called the
grand yVr>', and the relt pctii_/«i/Vj. The grand yKry
confilts ordinarily ot twenty-tour grave and lubitantial

gentlemen, or fome of them yeomen, chofen
by the iheriff,

indifferently out of the whole (hire

to confider of all bills ol

indidment preferred to the

which they do

tiiber approve by writing
words, hUla njera, or difallow
Such as they do ipprovc,
by writing ignoramus.
it they touch lite and death, arc farther referred to
another ytfry to be conlidered of, becaufe the cafe is
ot fuch iaijjortance ; but others of lighter moment
are, upoir their allowance, without moie work, hned
by the bench, except the party traveifi the indicS^ment, or challenge it for infufficicncy, or remove
the caufe to a higher court by certiorari \ in which
two former cafes it is referred to anothcryi^r)', and in
the latter tranfmitted to the hightr court, 'i hole that

upon ihcm

ihefc

pafs upon civil caufes real, arc all, or fo many as
can conveniently be had, oi ihc fame hundred where
the land or tenement in qucltion doth lie, and four
at the leaff ; and they, upon due exammation, bring

in their vcrdidt either tor the demandant or tenant :
according unto which, judgment paffcth afterward

where the caule tirit began ; and the
rcaloh hcieofi.^, becaufc thofcjulhces ot affuc are,
cafe,
for
the cafe of the countiifs only to take
in this
the vcrdiit of the jury by the virtue ot the writ
in the court

This place exempt

Sbdh/ftart,
2.

[jurijdidio, Latin,

Sometimes the pradtice of fuch jurijdi^iion may
fwerve through error even in the very belt, and for
other refpetli, where lefs integrity is.
Hooker,
You wrought to be a legate ; by which power
You maim'd \\\t jurifdiBion of all bilhops, Shakefp,
All perfons cxercifing 'ecclefiartical juriJdiSiion
Hiould hare the king's arms in their feats oi office.

America, which have now but yWwii and canoes,
abounded then in call Ihips. Bacon't Nfw Ata/antis.
2. Pieces of old cable.

[properly juucate.}

n. f.

jurifdiBion, French.]
1.

A fmall fhip of China.

Jw'nket. a. J.
JuNt ATE.

in a decilion ot the ju-

Arbutbnot on Ciins,

JuRiSDi'cTTON.

Jo NK. n.f. [probably an Indian word.]
1.

mention mdde,

is

rifconjult Javolemus, ol a Btitannick fleet.

_

be delivered them touching the matter in
queilion.
There be tliree manners of trials ia
England : one by parliament, another by battle,
and the tlaul by aiVize ov jury^ The trial by aflize,
be the aOion civil or criminal, publick or private,
fiiali

court;

Ju'risconsult. »./. [juris confullus , Lat.]

A clydcr may be made of the common decoctions,
or of mallows,

[jurikicus, Lat. jundijue,

French.]

Taz/rr.

linfecd.

'

comprifing an oath.

Svflft.

men of years, 1 was

Ju'nipeR. n,/. [juni/ifrui, Lat.]

Fr.]

JvKi'oic ALLY, ad-v. [ftomjuridical.] With
leg:il authority; according to forms of

Are tortur'd with fufpence and tear.

to the

Lat. jure,

Ju'ratoRY. adj. \jurat!iire,ft. juro,\A\.^

than another.

According

[jurat us,

A m.igiftrate in fome corporations.

Jc'nior. adj. [junior, Lat.] One younger
The fools, my Juniori, by a year.

Milton.

Two gates the filent houfe of fleep adorn.

Ju'rat. n.f.

«. y; [jurata, IdX.jwe, French.]
yury, a company of men, as twen'y-four, or
twelve, fworn to deliver a truth upon fuch evidence

is

Of polilh'd iv'ry this, that of tranfparent hojn :

The

[/«/«, l-r. y«w<;//, Lat.]

n.f.

fixth month from January.
^uae is drawn in a mantle of dark green.
Peacham.

Hill.

There is more difference between thy fielh and
hers, than between jet and ivory.
Shnkefj).

A

critical point or article of time.
4.
By thisprofeffion in (hit junliuye of time, they bid
Addljon.
farewei to all the pleafures of this life.
When any law does not conduce to the publick
fafety, butin fome eitraordinary ^b«-;»i-«, the very
obfervation of it would endanger the community,
AddiJ^^n,
that law ought to be laidalleep.

!

Ju'ry.

dullary fubltance.

UR

evidence will be as deceitful as the vcrdiA,
Sfenftr on Irelandm
I (ball find your lordfliip judge andy/^ror,
You arc fo merciful, X Tee your end,
*Tis my uiiduiag.
Shakefp. Hfnry VIII,
I ling no harm, good footh
to an) wight,
Donnf,
yuroif or judge.
About noon t\\c jurors went together, and becaufe
Hayuard^
they could notagree, they were (hut in.

fine white colour; it is the dens excrtus of the elephant, who carries on each fide of his jaws a tooth
of fix or feven feet in length ; the two fometimes

fo apt for that de-

votional compliance and junSlure of hearts, which
1 dcfire to bear in thofe holy offices to be performed
King Cbarlcs.
with me.

South,
time began an intrigue between his

I'voRY. »._/. [i-voire, Fr. ebur, Lat.]
hory is a hard, folid, and fii m fubftance, of a

Afce.

3. L'nion; amity.

this

majelly and a jutno o( miuillcts, which had like to
have ended in my deftruftiou.
Gulliver's Travels,

2. Joint articulation.
She has made the back-bone of feveral vertebrje,
as being lei's in danger of breaking than if they were
til one entire bone without ihofc gnftlyyawiSarw.
All other animals have tranfverfe bodies ; and
though fome do raife themfetves upon their hinder
legs to an upright pofture, yet they cannot endure
order
it long, neither arc the Bgures or jun^uretf or
Halt,
of their bones, lilted to fuck a poilure.

J

by party and prejudice, who denied
fitnefs from learning, and grace from morality ?
tyrants, afled

One

that

Were the jurou picked out of ctiQice tMn> the

called niji prius^ and

lo return

it

to the court where

Co'wel,

ihc caufe is dtpeiiding.

'Vhejury palFmg on the prifoner's life.
May in the fworn twelve have a thief or two
GuiUicr than him they try.
Hhakefpeare* s Mcajure far Meafure,
>

How innocent 1 was.

His noble yz/ry and ioul'cauliecan wlCnefs.
Sbakcfpeare^
Clodius was acquitted by a corrupt jury^ that had
palpably taken fharcs of money before they gave up
Bacott,

their verdidt.

Ju'ryman. n.f. [j»fy and OTff».]
who is impannelkd on a jury.

,

One

The hungry judges foon ihe fcntcnce fign.
And wretches hang that y«r)Wf« may dine. Pt>p0t'
No judge was known, upon or off the bench,
to ufc tijc

kaft iufinuatipD, ihdt might affcdt the
intcrcfts

*

JUS

JUS

u s

J

tnterefti of any one Cngle jurymaii,

fo thatene« the (kirmiih wai lik< la htvc com« to a
Knollet't Hijiory.
jufi battle.

much lefi of »
S-wiJi.

whole jury.

There is not any one particular above mentioned,
but would take up the bufinefs oitjyjl volume.
Hale'i Origin of Mankind.
There feldom appeared a y//^ army ui the civil wars.
Puifhe/i ofNevicaJHe.

Ju'rymast. »./. It feems to be properly
duree maft, mat de diirie, a mnf made to

60 the feamen call whatever they fet up in the
room of a maft loft in a fight or by a Just, ad-v,
1. Exaftly; nicely; accurately.
ftorm ; being fome great yard which

laji for the

prcfent occaiion.

fuch ceremonies are not to be lifcd when they are unprofitable, or when -as good or better may be eftaHooker.
blilhed.
There, ty'njufi there, he flood : and at (he fpoke,

His ofEce efpeciaily is to hear
and determine ail pleas of the crown ;
that is, fuch as concern offences committed
againft the cronn, dignity, and peace of
the king; .ns treafons. felonies, mayhems,
and fuch like: but it is come to pafs,

Where lall the fpcflie was, the caft her louk

that he with his afliftants hcareth all per.

They go about to make us believe that they are
juft of the

with fails and topes, and with it make a
Harris.

JUST. adj. \jufie, Yt.juftus, Latin.]
Upright ; incorrupt ; equitable in the

1.

Saviour faid, in an allegorical fenfc, except ye eat
the flc(h of the foa of man, and drink his blood, ye
Bentley.
have no life in you.
'Tis with our judgments as our watches none,
Pope.
Goyw/? alike; yet each believes his own.

^'y^'"-

Onfafely/V'" '>''•''' '°°*' °" '''* '^^^ "S^'

Men arc commonly iojuji to virtue and gooJnefs,
as to praise it in oiherj, even when they do not practife it thcmfelvcs.

.

TMolJon.

Honeft ; without crime in dealing with

2.

others.
Leu. xix.

He'll take my lord c\\\eijuftice' warrant.

7.

Merely; barely.

4. Exaft ; proper ; accurate.
Boileau's numbers are excellent, his exprelTions
noble, hit thoughu/H/?, his language pure, and his
Dryden.
fenfe clofe.
Thefe fcenes were wrought,
Embellilh'd with good morals mijuji thought.

Jt;sT. »,/.

or more noble in
and launce,

Difcours'd in terms 3%j«Ji, with looks as fage.

5. Virtuous; innocent; pure.
Howfliould manbey*^ with God?
Job.
Aj'Jl man fallelh feven times and rifeth. Praverts.

He (hall be recompenced at the refuneilion of the
Matt.

jufl.

The JuJ} th' unjull to ferve.
Crimes were laid

Latin.]

Miliar.

The virtue by which we give to every
man, what is his due ; oppofed to injury

1

True ; not forged.
to his charge too

many, the

or lurong.

leaft whereof beingjv/?, had bereaved him of ellima-

Hooker.

tion and credit.

Me though juft right

dijiribiiti've,^\it-

men.
Milton.

O that

Heb. ii. 2,

Rom.'m, g.
Whofe damnation MJuft.
As Hefiod fmgs, fprrad water o'er thy fields,
increafe
it
yields.
Denbam.
mo^juji
and
glad
And a
9. Complete without fuperfluity or defeft.

were Judge,

I

iSam.

would doy/j/J/Ve.

Hacon'i HenrjiVll,

xo. Regular; orderly.

When all

And dreadful pomp, then will I think 00 thee.
Addifan.

Exaftly proportioned.
The prince is here at hand pleafeth your lotdlhip
:

To meet his grace, yV/7dillance 'tween our armies ?
Sbakefftare.

tz. Full; of full dimcnfions.
Vii foldicn bad (kirn)i(hes with the Numidiuis,

his

office,

and

Cotvel.
9.

Ju'sTICES of AJJife. [jufticiarii ad enftendas AJjifas.\
Are fuch as-were wont,
by fpecial commiffion, to be fent into
this or that country to take

affifes;

the

ground of which polity was the eafe of
the fubjeds ; for whereas thefe adions
pafs always by jury, fo many men might
not, withoutgi^at hinderance, be brought
to London ; and therefore juftices, for
this purpofe, were by commiffion particularly authorifed and fent down to
Cootv/.

Sbakrfp. Macbeth.

iter.

The nature and oflfice oijiijiice being to difpofe the

was

gratitude

if

Equity ; agreeablencfs to right

:

as, ie

prirved the juftice of his claim.
3. Vindicative

The war (hall (land ranged in lUJuJi array.

by

hath the hearing and determining of all
offences within the king's foreft, committed againft venifon or vert ; of thefe
there be two, whereof the one hath jurifdi^ion over all the forefts on this fide
Trent, and the other of all beyond.

1 havcnorelilh ofthem.

to every man his due, it is evident, that

2.

lord

[jujiiciariiit

AijuJIiee, verity, temp'rance, (lablenefs,

be a part oijujiict, it muft be converfant about fomething that is due to another.
Leeke.

He was a comely perfonage, a little i\i0wtjuji

Is a

Foreji.

Ju'sTICES in Eyre, [jujiiciarii itinerantes.] Are fo termed of the French errt,

mind to a condant and perpetual readinefs to render

'

ftature, well and Unit limbed, but (lender.

Forejice.]

of the

them.
I

The king-becoming graces,

He received ijufi recompenfe of reward.

4

It is either

longing to magiftrates ; or commutati've,
refpefting common tranfaflions between

7. Grounded on principles ofjuftice; rightful.
Did firftcreate your leader.
6. Equally retributed.

Catuel,

Ju'sTICE

8.

itfelf,

Then turn'd their horfes heads, and man to man.
And (leed to deed oppos'd, ihejti^s began. Dryden.
To Just. o;. n. [joujitr, French.]
1. To engage in a mock fight ; to tilt.
2. Topufh; to drive; tojuftle.
JU'STICE. n. /. [juftice, French; y^/Vw,

for

of the crown, or the king's pleis, which

than ju.fl', both with fword
Sidney.
What news } hold ihakjufts and triumphs ?
Shakefp.
Among themfelves the tourney they divide.
In equal fquadrons rang'd on either lide ;

A

real ;

was called the court of

are fpecial, and appertaining to him only.

None was either more grateful to the beholders,

Popt.

IValis't Logici

Mock encoun-

it

common pleas, in oppofition to the pleas

more proper.

JuJi to the tale, as prefent at the fray.
Pepe.
Or taught the labours of the dreadful way.
Once on a time La Mancha's knighs they fay,
certain bard encount'ring on the way,

fences injujl and true.

[;6«/?^, French.]

W^

placilorum.

well perfonal as

as

which caufe

ter on horfeback; tilt; tournament. Joitfi

Juji precepts thus from great examples giv'n,

She drew from them what they deiiv'd from Heav'n.

As e're could Dennis of the laws o' tli' ftage. Pope.
Though the fyllogifm be irregular, yet the infe-

perfons,

Dryden.

Being (pent with age, andy/;^ at the pointof death,
Democritus called for loaves of new bread to be
brought, and with the (learn of them under his nofe
Temple.
prolonged his life.

Granville.

commutiitim

with his affiftants originally did hear and
determine all caiifes at the common law
that is, all civil caufes between common

Dryden.
Give me, ye gods, the product of one field.

That fo 1 neither may be rich not poor
And having_/:/^ enough, not covet more.
3. Nearly; almoft ; ta/ilum tion.

Prior.

Ju'sTICE if the Common Pleas. \juf.
liciarius Communium Flacilorum. 1
Is a
lord by his office, and is called domiimt
jiijiiciariiis

liMtjfJl infpir'd and gently fwell'd ilie fail.

y»/? n/"thy word, in ev'ry thought fincere,
Who knew nowifli but what the world migtit hear.
Poft.

Cmuef,

Give that whipdcr his errand.

To fmooth the feas; a foft Etc(iang.ile

authority.

they be

before them.

The Ncrejdsfwam before

other
3. I know not whether ^/^ of\as any

alfo, if

real

incident to any perfonal adiou depending

It is the humour of weak and trifling men to value
thcmfelvcs uponyi*^ nothing at all.
L'EJIrange.

ephah.
'fuji balances,/;;/? weights, "and a>/

1 1.

fonal anions, and

A few undetftand him right ;/<<// as when our

Take it, while yet 'tis praife, before my lagc

6.

fame opinion, and that they only think

Dryden.

diftribution of juftice.

2.

Anglief.

Sidney.

the beall.

into the partners, and

maft, faftening it
fitting to it the miflen or fome lefler yard

One deputed by the
king todo right by wayofjudgment.Co<u</.
And thou, Efdivas, ordain judgei ini jirfticts, that
[ytifliciarius, I«tt.]

theymay judge in all Syria.
\ E/drai.
6. J u 'stick of the King's Bench. [ji,Jii\ia~
rius de Baufue Regis.]
Is a lord by his
office, and the chief of the reft ; wherefore he is alfo alkd ca/>italij ju/liciarirt

The god Pan guided my \iiaijujl to the heart of

ihey put down into the ilep of that lolt

fluft to fail.

5.

retribution; punifhment ;
oppofed to mercy.
He executed ihtjufiice of the Lord.
Deut.
Lety<r^/Ve overtake us.

^. lix. 9.

Examples oi juftice muft be made for terror to
fome ; examples of mercy, for comfort to others.
Bacon's Advice to VilUers.
4. Right; aftertion of right.

Draw thy fword,
That if my fpeech offend a noble heart.
Thy arm nu/ da thee /»//«. Sl/akeff, King Lear.

to.

The ufe of thefe, in ancient time,
to

divers

fei)d

them with commiffion into

counties;

to

hear

fuch

caufes

efpeciaily as were termed the p!eas of the

crown, and therefore I muft imagine
they were fent abroad for the eafe of
the fubjefts, who muit elfe have been
hurried to the King's Bench, if the caufe
were too high for the county court.
They differed from the juftices of Oyer
and Terminer, becaufe they were fent
upon fome one or few efpecial cafes, and
to one place; whereas the juftices in eyre
were fent through the provinces and countries of the land, with more indefinite and
Cow<'/

general commiffion.
II.

Justices.

JUT

JUS

JUS

ri. JutTICIS of Gaol Delivery. Vfujliciarii
ad Gaolas deliberandas.'\ Are fuch as are
fent with commiffion to hear and determine all caufck appertaining to fuch as
for any offence are cad into gaol, part of
whofe authority is to punifh fuch as let
to mainprife thofe prifoners that by law
be not bailable. Thefe by likelihood,

Men, jealous of the_/»^//fji/«f^ of their doings
before God, never think they have human ftrength
enough.
King Charles.

in ancient time, were fent to countries
feveral occafions ; but afterward

upon

juftices

of affife were likewife authorifed

Ccwel.
to this.
IJ, Ju'sTiCESo/" Nifi Prius are all one nowa-days with jullices of aflife;

for it

is

a

Ju'sTiFlABLY.

:

[from

claufe

Through Bofphonis, betwixt iht Jtiftling rocks.
Miltpt.

JusTiFiCA'TroN. «. /.
ji'ftificatio, low Latin.]

[ju/liftcation,

line the (lant lightning.

Fr.

Defence;

my virtue.
maintenance;

And, in the dark, mtnjuftU as they meet.

Shakeffeare.

His trunk, and caftles juftl,d in the air,

My fword thy way to vidtory had (hown.

andfaid, Hitherto (halt thou come, but no
farther,
and here Ihall thy proud waves be ftaid ; then
might
we well expeft fuch viciffitudes, fach

a-wift.

Deliverance by pardon from fins paft.

3.

Juftlings and

Clarke.

clafhings in nature.

In fuch righteoufnefs
To them by faith imputed, they may finl
Juftlftcation towards God, and peace
Of conlcience.
Milton's Paradlfe Loft.
'Tis the confummation of that former aft of faith
by this latter, or, in the words of St. Paul and St.
James, the confummation of faith by charity and
good works, that Cod accepteth in Chrift
lojufliftcalion, and not the bare aptnefs of faith
to bi ing forth
works, if thofe works, by the fault of a i^ebcUious in-

I

In fair round belly wiih good capon linM,

out Qtof.
Private and (ingle abilities (hould tiot
juftle out
and deprive the church of the joint abilities of many
learned and godly men.
King Charles.

Many excellent ftrains have been juftleJ
off
their intrulions.
hrtwn's Vulgar

which believeth in Jefus.
•r»

not died in the ftcond year of hit government, was
the likelieft perfoa to have reformed ike EngltOi
colonies.
Daviit 6n Iretand.

Cr/^'.

[ftom _/«/?//>.]

Jv 's 7 1 » I A B L E N E S S. ;/. /. [from jnftifiahle. ]

Vol. I.

poffibility ot

being fairly de-

ground.

1.

Alilan.

of a caufe, as well as of a judge.
It maketh unto the right of the war againft him,
whofe fuccefs ul'ctli commonly to be according to the
juftitefs of the caufe for which it is made.

Denbam.

Sfenfer on IrelanS.

We may not think (hejuftnrfs of each aft
Such and no other than event doth form it.

Sbakefpeare.
2.

from all
things, from which ye could not \i^
pftiftcd by the
law of Mofcs.
Atis.

To Ju'sTt.E.

rv.n.

Ire juftijied

Accuracy ; exatSnefs ; propriety. In tliis
fcnfc it is now moft ufed.
I value the fatisfaftion I had in feeing it reprefented with all CMJuflneft and gracefuliiefs of aftion.

[from Juft, Joifter. Ft.]

Dryden,

'I'o encounter; toclafti; to rulh againft
each other.

I appeal to the people, was the ufual faying
of a
very excellent draniatick poci, wheie he had any dif-

While injury of chance
Puts back leave-taking, y,7^/« roughly by
All time of paufe, rudely beguiles our lips

Of all rejointurc.

juftice; reafonablenefs ; equity. 7»/?*5/}
properly applied to things, and pftice
to perfons ; though we now fay ihcjuftice is

Atterbury.

that believe

Drjd.

Ju'sTNESs. »,/. [fromy/^.]

To free from paft fin by pardon.
all

Prior.

Properly; exaftly ; accurately.
Their artful hands inltruft the lute to found.
Their feet alTift their hands, and juftly beat the

we cmjiiftify that of our fathcn by an un-

By him

Bro-wn^l Vulgar Errours.

In 3t\\nijuftly, and in writing well.
2.

Sidney.

interrupted fuccelfion.

3.

Mi/ton's Agoniftes.
AiihrM:gh fome jrimals in the water do carry a
juJIftMe refemblance 10 fome at land, yet arc the
-•oiajorpart which bear their names unlike.

Reftitude;
fended.

are fure

Dc-

And ju/lifiaili to men.

The goddel's, ftudious of her Grecians' fate,

Taught them in laws and letters to excel.

Yet ftill thy fools'lhall ftar.d in thy defence,
hnijuftify their aulhoi's want of fciife.
Dryden.
Let m\wnjuftify their millions as they can, we

or office of juftice.
S^vift.
JvjsTi'ciABi.E, <7<^'. [from Ju/lice-l Proper
to he examined in courts of juftice.
fcnfiblc bv law or reafon.
Juft are the ways of Cod,

With Ignominy fcourg'd, in open light
Next view the Tarquiii kings j tli' avenging fword
Of ^siAm juftly drawn, and Rome reftor'd. Dryd.

.My unwilling flight the gods inforce,

Rank

.

'

"
Nothing can juftly be defpifed, that cinnot
juftly
be blamed : where there is no choice, theie can be
no blame.
Smth.

to defend; to vindicate.
;
\yhen we began in courteous manner to lay his
unkindnefs unto him, ho feeing himfelf confronted
by fo many, like a rcfolute orator, went not to de-

And that muft/iz/Jj/v our fad divorce.

la

Jus'tly. odi: [fromy/z/Z.]
1. Uprightly; honeftly; in a juft manner.

You're neithery/y*//fr;/, nor yet accus'd. Dryden.

What (he did, whatever in iifclf.
He doing fccin'd to jujiify the deed.

\s juftled out,

Locke.
Vie juft led one another out, and difputed the polt
Addifon's Guardian.

To maintain

nial, but tajiiftijy hii cruel falfchood,

abfencc,

for a great while.

Sin may be forgiven through repentance, but no
aft or wit of man will tytt juftijy thsm.
Sherlock.

Jf'sTlctR. «./. [(rom To Jujiice.] .'Idminiftrator of juftice.
An old word.
He was a fingular gooJ jujiicer; and if he bad

Jo'sTIFIABtE.

'«'•

How can man htjuftiftcd with God ? Or how can
he be clean that is boin of a woman ?
Joi.
There is an exquillte fubtilty, and the fame is
unjultj and there is a wife man \i\M
juftifteb in
judgment.
Eeclef.

2.

its

make way lor the removal of ihofe uneafinefl'es vv»

French;

lj,ftifier,

publicans and finners ; but v.lldom Ujuftlfted of her
children.
M^„_

cedure in courts.

Ju'sTicESHip. «./. [(torn juftice.}

a.

whom law condemns. Sbakrfptare.
Thy lay, behold a man gluttonous, a friend of

the Icing delivered him to (he French king, to be
H.ijtvard.
juflked\ii him at hlsplcalijre.

Pro-

V.

I cmnat juftifj

A

Ju'sTicEMENT. »./. [i'iomju/lice.\

JU'STIFY.

part of unhappinefs in

The law hath judg'd thee, Eleanor;

7a Jo'sTiCE. 'T. <j

Bacon.

CMier.
Abfent good, though thought on, not making any

Rom. iii. 26.

j'lftificoy low Latin.]
1. To clear from imputed
guilt; to abfolve from an accufation.

Bacon.

Whereas one Sirward, a Scot, was apprehended
for intending 10 poifjn the young queen of Scots ;

Running in the dark, a man may JuftU a port.

That he might be juft, and the juftlfitr of him

And fo he plays his pai*.

Dryden.

It is not to be imagined that the
incongruous alphabets and abufes of writing can ever be
juftled out
of their polTcirion of all libraries.
H.lder.

one who defends or abfolves ;
one who frees from fin by pardon.

Full of wife faws and modern inilaiices.

by

Errours,

The furly commons ftiall refped deny.
And juftle peerage out with property.

juftifies ;

With cy« fcverc, and beard of formal cut,

H-'oodward.
thouglu the dean had been too proud

To juftle liere among a croud.
Sivi/t.
To Jus'tle. rj. a. To pufh; to drive;
to force by rulhing againft it. It is com •
monly ufed with a particle following, a»

.

to a war.

Dryden.

Was there not one who had fet bars and doors to

fidel, will not be brought forth.
cial refpeft, are made of the quorum,
Hammond.
becaufe fome bufinefs of importance may Justifica'tor. »./. [horn juftify.] One
who fupports, defends, vindicates, or
not be dealt in without the prefenoc of
juftifies.
them, or one of them.
Coivel.
Thejufiice,
J t;'sTi Ft E R »./. \Uomjuftify.-] One who

ror hath been judge and party, and \\ix\\jitjliced hXtafelf. Cod forbid but that it fhould endure an appeal

Dryd.

When elephant 'gainll elephant did rear

vindication;

It,

Pacem,]
Are they that are appointed by
the king's commiflion, with others, to
attend the peace of the country where
they dwell ; of whom fome, upon efpe-

[from the nonn.] To
adminifter jufticc to any.
\\'ord not
in ufe.
Ai for the title of profcription, wherein the empe-

Dryden.

The more remote run ftumbling with their fear.

Among theological arguments, in juftificatian of
abfolute obedience, was one of a lingular nature.

that they have to deal in.
Ccwel.
[Ji/fticiarii ad
13. Ju'sTicES cf Peace.

larged their jurifdiflion.*

""^"f-

_.

my brother's jiiftification, he wrote

fupport.

of adjournment they are called
of niji priut, as well as juftices of
by reafon of the writ or aflion

Sbakcff. Aijcu like !t.
Thou haft appointed juftices ot the peace to call
poor men before them, about matters they were not
able to anfwer.
Shaltefp,
'I'he jaft'ices of peace are of great ufe : anciently
confervators
were
of
the
they
peace ; thefe are the
lame, faving that feveral a£ls of parliament have en-

Lee.

Courtiers therefore y>////* for a grant

Aud, when they break their friendlhip, plead their

this but as an elTay of

2.

Milton's Puradife Loft.

Not one ftarry fpark,
But gods meet gods, and j:ifiU in the dark.

Abfolution.
hope, for

'

Late the clouds

ftfftllng, or pufh'd with winds, rude in their ftiock,

lAcke.

jullices
affife,

,

for his opinions, than take them up by fuch meafures.

r

>

Argo pafs'd,

jnftiftable.]

.

and upon this

,

A man may mon jufliJiabJy throw crofi and pile

1.

Oiall

Nab. if. 4.

defenfibly.

nifi prius jiijiiciarii ijenerint ad eas

partes ad capiendas ajjijas ;

rage in the ftreets, they Oial'
]uftle one againft another in the broad ways;

Rightly ; fo as to be fupported by right

common adjournment of a caufc, in the
common pleas, to put it off' to fuch a
day

ad^v.

ThecharioU

pute with particular perfons about the juftne/s and
regularity of his prodi(flions.
Addiftm.

tbake/p, Troilut and Crrfftda. 1
'

To Jut. 1', p. [This word is fuppofed to
be corrupted from jet, perhaps from /^<w/. 1

6U

To

JUT
fFo pu(h or (boot into prominencies ; to
come out beyond the main bullc.
Tnrulting tyranny begins to Jul
Upon the innocent and awlefs throne.

ShaJteffteare,

All the prrjc^ed or jutting parts (bould be very
jBoderaKi cffccially the cornices of.the lower orders.

J UiK
JUVENILE, a^-. [juwnilis, Lat.] Young;
youthful.
learning hath Its infancy when it is almofl
childilh ; then its youth, when it is luxuriant and
juveii/e; then its ftrength of years, when it is folid;

and liUlj, iu old age, when

ffiinon.

The land, if not rcftrain'd, had met your vny,
Drydtn,

Proje£)ed out a neck, iaijutifd to the Tea.

exhauft.

In double ftreams the oriny waters glide.
It feeOM to jut out

of the

ftruifiure of

and be independentof it.

Bacoa'i Bffayt,

*

The reftauration of grey hairs to jimm'ility, an
renewing cxhaufted marrow, may be eliefted without

the poem,

a miracle.

Broome,

Glanville.

Light and carelefs manner.

2,

Cullomary ftrains and ablVa^ed juveniihies have
made it diflncult to commend and fpeak credibly in

out beyond.
Then lend the eye a terrible afpedl

dedications.

Let it pry through the portage of the head
Like a brafs cannon let the brow o'eiwbelm it

Glarfville,

Ju'xTAPOSlTiON. n. f.

:

[juxtapojttioa, Fr.

juxta and pofitio, Latin. J
Appofition ;
the ftate of being placed by each other.

As fearfully as doth a galled rock
O'erhang andjutty his confounded bafe,
Swili'd with the wild and walleful ocean.
Siaie/feart.

M

[ip3, Saxon;

I'vy. n.f.
plant.

/^</<rr«,

Latin.]

A

It is a parafitick planr, fending forth roots or fibres

from its branches, by which it is fal>ened to cither
hees, walls, or plants which are near it, and from

Youthfulnefs.

1.

Dryden,

To (hoot

Ti JuTTY. T. a. [from _/«/.]

waxeih dry and

Juveni'lity. n.f. [ftomjufvem/e,]

Broke by thejulting land on either fide ;
i

it

J Y

rene« of thefe will be of difficult conception ; and we
mud either fuppofe an infinite number of them holding togcihtr, or at laft come to parts that are united
by a mcnjuxtapajiihn.
damiiUc.

Nor can it be a difference, that the parts of folld
bodies arc held together by books, fince the cohe-

thence receives a great (hare of its nourifhrnent.

Miller.

A gown made of the fineft wool
A belt of Itraw, and ivy buds,
With coral clafps and amber lluds;
And it thefe pleafurcs may thee movc»

Come live with me and be my love.

RaUi^B.
MUioH.

Dire<S the clafping ivy where to climb,

jt'uoLD.ad;.

[SeeGiMAL.]

Their poor jades

Lob down their heads, dropping the hide and hipSi
And in their pale dull mouths ihc/ym/d bit
Lies, foul with chew'd grafs, (till and motioolefs.

K
K A M

K E C

KA

letter borrowed by the Englifli
from the Greek alphabet. It has
before all the vowels one invariable
It is ufed
as, he/i, ken, kill.
found
after t at the end of words: as, knock,

fet

:

as before.

It is alfo in

between a vowel and the filent e final
cloke, broke, brake, pike, duke, eke.

:

raven or crow.

The daftard crow that to the wood made wing.
With her loud katei her craven-kind doih bring.

as,

Who, fafc in numbers, cuff the noble bird.

Ir like-

Dryd.

Kavlk. v.f. [fuilte, French.]
Ninepin

1.

;

kettlepins,

of which

fkittles

feems a corruption.
And now at keelt ihey try a h.irmlefs chance.
And now their cur they teach to fetch and dance.
Sidney.

as, knife, knee, knell.

The relidue of the time they wear out at coits,

Ka'lendar. »./ [now written ca/fWar.]

An account of time.

kayles, or the like idle excrcifes.

A kind of play

2.

Let this pernicious hour
Stand ay accurfed in the kaleitdor.

Sbaiefp, Maci.

K'ali. n. f. [an Arabick word.J Seaweed, of the afhes of which glafs was
made ; whence the word alkali.
The allies of the weed Xa/i are fold to the VeneBacon.

Kam. adj.

Crooked.
Kem, in Erfe, is f^uint eyed, and applied to any
clean kam fignifies crooked, athwart,
thing awry
:

awry, crofs from the purpofe.
hence our EngliOi a-kimoo.

The cry of a

ufe

wife ends a word after a di|>thong : as,
look, break, jhook, leek. The Englifh never
A is filent
ufe c at the end of a word.
in the prefent pronunciation before n :

tians for their glafs works.

Loclti:.

Kaw. n.f. [from the verb.]

which were written anciently with e final
as, clocle, checke, tricke.

To cry Ke'cksy. n.f. [commcnXy kex, eigne, ?T.

as a raven, crow, or rook.
Jack-daws kaviing and fluttering about the nefts,
all their young ones a-gaping; but having nothing in their mouths but air, leave them as hungry

,

clock, crack, back, brick, Jiick, pluck, check,

K E E

To Kaw. <d. fi. [from the found.]

A-jctemto, Italian ;

Clean ism is, by vulgar pronunciation, brought to
ilm-Ham.
Siak'/feort,
This it clean kam; mctelj »wrj.

CartVif,

ftill retained in Scotland,

in which nine holes ranged in three's are
made in the ground, and an iron bullet
rolled in among them.

To Keck. f. a. [kecken, Dutch.]
the ftomach ;

To heave

to reach at vomiting.

All thofe diets do dry up humours and rheums,
which ihcy firft attenuate, and while the humour is
attenuated it froubleth (he body a great deal more ;

and therefore patients mull not keck al ihem at the
Bacon's Natural Hi^ftory.

Latin. Skinner.'\
Skinner feems to
think kctkfy or kex the fame as hemlock.
It is ufcd in StafFordfhire both for hemlock, and any other hollow-jointed plant.

ciciita,

Nothing teems
But hateful docks, rough thirties, leckjiis, burs,
Lofing both beauty and utility. Shakrfp. Htnry V,

Ke'cky. tf(j)'. [from -^jf.']

Kelembling a

kex.

An Indian fceptre, made of a fort of cane, without any joint, and perfcflly round, confilieih of hard
and blackilh cylinders, mixed withafofticci>i bodyj.
fo as at the tai cut Iranfvcrfcly, it looks as a bundle
of wires.

GrcMi,

To Kedgk.
Dutch.]

Of.

a.

[iaglx, a fmall veffel,

In bringing a (hip up or down a narrow river,
when the wind is contrary to the tide, ihcy fct the
forefail, or

foretop-fail

and mizen, and

fo

let

her

The fails are to Hal her about,
if (he comes too near the (hore.
They alfo carry
diive with the tide.

out an anchor in the bead of the boat, with a hawfer,
comes fram the (hip; which anchor, if the
comes too near the (liorc, they let fall in the
Itream, and fo wind her head about it; then weigli
(he anchor again when (he is about, which is called
kedgirrg, and from this ufe the anchor a kedger.
Harris,
that
(hip

Ke'dger. »./ [from kedge.] A finall anchor ufed in a river.
See Keoge,
The fadion, li it not notorious?
Keck at the memory of glorious.
S-wifi. Kee, the provincial plural of ccnv, proTo Ke'cklb. V, a. To defend a cable round
perly ii/ie,
Alafa
/iinfiwrik.
with rope,
firft.

KEE

K E E
A lafs that Cic'ly hight had won his heart,
Gay.
char-

Cic'ly the weftern lafs that tends the kee.

Kedlack. a./. A weed among corn

;

Tufer.

nock.

Keele. It./,

Saxon; kkl, Dutch;

[coele,

No, not the hangman's ax bears half the keennefi

Of thy Iharp envy.
Sbakefp. Merchant of Venice,
2. Rigour of weather; piercing cold.
3. Afperity ; bitternefs of mind.
That they might keep up the keennefs againll the
court, his lordfhip furnifhed them with informations,

The bottom of the ftiip.

quale, Fr.]

Portunus

The (ling of every reproachful fpecch is the truth

DryJrrt.

Her rtiarp bill ferves for a leel to cut the air beGrnv,
Your cables kurft, and you muft quickly feel

of it; and to be confcious, is that which gives an
edge, and keennefs to the inveftive.
South,

fore her ; her tail (he ufeth as her rudder.

The waves impetuous entering at your keeh

Swift.

Keels, the fame with kayla which fee.
To Keel. ii. a. [cxian, Saxon.] This

4. Eagernefs ; vehemence.
Tfl Keep, v, a, [cepan, Saxon; kepen, old

To retain

1

word, which is preferved in Shakej'feare,

I kept the field with the death of fome, and flight
of others.
Sidney,
have examples in the primitive church of fuch
as by fear being cortipelled to facritice to ftrange gods
repented, and kept ftill the office of preaching the

Hanmer explains thus
To kcct feems to mean to drink fo deep, as to turn

We

up the bottom of the pot, like turning up the keel
Hanmer.
ofalhip.
.

gofpel.

In Ireland, to leel the pot is to /cum it.

"vat,

in a (hip to her keel, lying right over it
Harris,
next above the floor timber.

ToKl'elhale. -j.a.

anA hale.'\

\^kfel

To

mercy for thoufands, forgiving iniquity.
Exod. xxxiv. 7.

or point.

fpared it greatly, and have keyt me a grape of
the duller, and a plant of a great people.
I

Come thick night.
That my keen knife fee not the wound it makes.

Addifon,
;

or north,

it

;

Gen. xxviii.

To reftrain from flight.

6.

AJilton.

The (htep were fo keen upon the acorns, that
L'Ejlrayige.
Chey gobbled up a piece of the coat.
Thofe curs are fo extremely hungry, that they
arc too keen at the fport, ai.d worry their game.
Taller.

This was a profpefl fo very inviting, that it could
not be eafily withftood by any who have fo kern an
appetite lor wealth.

SxL-i/t.

Locke.
Prohibited commodities (hould be kept out, and
ufelefs ones impoverilh us by being brought in.
Locke.

An officer with one of thefe unbecoming qualities,
looked upon as a proper perfon to keep
off impertinence and lolicitalioii from his fuperior.

And if two boots keep out the weather.
What need you have two hides of leather ?

AcrimonioDs; bitter of mind.
Good father cardinal, cry thou. Amen,
To my keen curfes.
Shakefpeare's King 'John.
have icnown fome of ihefe abfent officers

a keen

they had never been indebted

U) her.

Gin. ii. 15.
While in her glilini age (he kepi (hcep on the
moor, it chanced that a merchant faw and liked her.

Carnu,

Count it thine

To till and keep, and of the fruit to eat.
Milton.
To preferve in the fame tenoar or

10.

ftate.

To know the true (late, I will kttp this order.

Cheyne.

15.

'1

o

An unauthorifed word.

Nor when cold Winter keem the brightening flood,

Wuu'd ] weak fhivcring linger on the brink.
Thompfon.

Your art mud be to moderate their hafte.

;

kept to an uniformity in motion than thefe.

Glan'vilWs Scepjts.

He dy'd in fight:
Fought next my perfon ; as in concert fought
Kept pace for pace, and blow for blow.
Dryden.

He, being come to the edate, keeps on a very
bufy family ; the markets are weekly frequented,
and the commodities of his farm carried out and
fold.
Locke.
Invading foes, without refiftance.

With eafe I make to keep their diftance.
To preferve in any ftate.
1 6.

Ecclef. xxvi.

17.

1 8.

My weary'd eyes were feiz'd with fatal flcep.
Dryden,
1 2.

To not fufl^er to fail.
My mercy will I keep for him for ever.

To hold in any llate.

;

to ufe habitually.

family very ill, taikeep bad houi«.

To copy carefully.
Her fervants eyes were fix'd upon her face.

And as fhe mov'd or tuin'd, her motions view'J,
Her meafures kept, and dep by dep purfu'd.
Dryden,
19. To obferve or folemnize any time.

Pfal. Ixxxix.

13.

To praftice
I rule the

Addifon.

To regard; to attend.

Svift.

My fon, keep the flower of thine age found.

While the (lars and courfe of heav'n I keep.

Ke'eklt. adv. [from keen ]

Sharply; vehemently ; eagerly bitterly.
Kt'jtNHi*!. *./. [from /(rfw.J

:

The courfers ef ihemfelves will run too fail,

Milton.

An heap of ants on a hillock will tiore eafily be

Take this at leaft, this lad advice my fon,
Keep a ftitfrein, and move but gently on

11.

To continue any ftate or aftion.

The moon that diftance keeps till night.

Bacon.

I

Hivifi.

9"eKEEN. 11. a. [from the adjcftive.]

Prior.

Exod. xxii. 7.

;
to have care of.
Cod put him in the garden of Eden to keep it.

4.

and will not be kept out.

Knotles.

To tend

9.

:

Dryden,
recommended by our padions, take pof-

Matters,

feffion of our minds,

Milton.
Shakefp.

me what wou'd fatisfy.

As much as keeps out hunger, thirft, and cold.

Referv'd from night, and kept for thee in (lore.

So keen and greedy to confound a man.
Keen difpaich of real hunger.

Ihilrpen.

If any alk

To make life eafy, thus I would reply

It was then fuch a calm, that the fliips were not
able to keep way with the gallies.
KnoUes.

A man delivers money or llufTto keep,

Never did 1 know

it

And thole that cannot live from him afunder.
Ungratefully (hall drive to keep him under, Milton.

Dryden.

To hold for another.

8.

£llit*t Voyage.

(gainft Ireland, as

the dogs were horrible in
Chapman's Iliad.
The Chinefe fail where they will ; which (hcweth
that their law of keeping out llrangers is a law of
pufillanimity and fear.
Bacon,
tafte.

Men gave ear, waited, and kept filence at my
"""fel>i, xxix. ai.
Auria made no ftay, but ftill kept on his courfe.

?

I

Eager; vehement.

I

reign force

Of rofy balms, that to

and to fufpend (he efficacy of this natural funflion.

me
—That may know what keeps me here with you.

became exceflively

A creature, that did bear the (hape of man.

could not all this flelh

We have it in our power to keep in our breaths,

Paul dwelt with a foldicr that kept him.

But what's the caufe that keeps you here with

but as it changed

!

Addifon's Spelialor.

to guard.

Behold I am with thee to keep thee.

which bids us feek
MiUon'i Pnraiife Lojl.

keen,

3.

To proteft

5.

;

The cold was very fupportable

Sidney.
It is hardly to be thought that any governor
fhould fo much malign his fuccelTor, as to fuller an
evil to grow up which he might timely have if/t
under; or perhaps nourilh it with coloured countenance of fuch finifter means.
Spenjir.

is

We palfed by where the duke keefs his gallics.

Blow moift, and ken, fhattering the graceful locks

to the northweft,

To preferve in a ftatc of fecurity.

4.

AUi, xxviii.
7. To detain, or hold as a motive.

The winds

Some better (hroud.

To retain by fome degree of force in
any place or ftate. It is often followed
in this fenfe by particles ; as, donun, un^'

14.

xEfJr.ix,2i,

%, Severe ; piercing.

Of ihefe fair fprcading trees

over their inferior and animal powers, that the fenfitive tumults never rife to dillurb the fupcrior and
better operations of the reafoning mind.
tVatts.

And kept the dogs off: night and day applying fove-

keen of an edge, and (harp, either of edge

Sbakeff.
To me the cries of fighting fields are charms.
Keen be my fabre, and of proof my arms. Dryden.
A fword kten-ti%^A within his right he held,
The warlike emblem of the conquer'd field. Dryden.

who keep fuch a facred dominion

!

Milton.
His loyalty he kept, his love, his zeal.
Milton,
You havelolt a child; but you have jtf^r one child,
Temple,
and are likely to do fo long.
If we would weigh, and keep in our minds, what
we are conlidering, that would inllrudt us when we
(hould, or fhould not, branch into dillindlions. Locke.

We

Shake/peare.
Here is my kee>i-ti%ti fword,
with
Bower-dc-lucrs
on
each
fide.
DcckM
fine

Locke.

Happy fouls

What old acquaintance

punilh in the feamen's way, by dragging 2. To have in cuftody.
The cr»wn of Stephanus, firft king of Hungary,
the criminal under water on one fide of
was always kept in the caftlc of Vicegrade.
the (Viip and up again on the other.
Knollei.
She kept the fatal key.
Milton,
Keen. adj. [cene, iaxon ; kubn, German;
3. To prcferve ; not to let go.
keen, Dutch.]
The Lord God merciful and gracious, keeping
not blunt.
fay
i. Sharp ; well edged
;

mind, which keep them in igAo-

rante.

Keep in a little life ? Poor Jack, farewel. Shakefp.
Venus took the guard of noble Heilor's corfc.

Of rend'ring up.

which liquor is let to cool.
Ke'elson. ti. /. The next piece of timber

t,ocke on Education,

Men are guilty of many faults in the exercife of
this faculty of the

Cor,

I

This charge I keep till my appointed day

Cooler ; tub in

a veflel.]

fVhiigiflt,

Keep in memory what I preachfd unto you.

Shakefpeare,

Ke'elfat. »./. [cffilan, Saxon, to cool, and
fat or

not to lofe.

;

^

pleafure, ire the only true rcArainls : thefe «Wne
ought to hold the reins, and keep the child in order.

der, in, off.
This wickednefs is found by thee j no good deejc
of mine have been able to keep it do%un in thee.

Dutch.]

;

While greafy Joan doth keel the pot.

Clarendon.

to the king's difadvantage.

Heav'd up his lighien'd keel, and funk the fand,

And fteer'd the facrcd velTel.

K E E'

Sharpnefs; edge.

1.

This (hall be

memorial; and you (hall keep
Exod. xii. 14.
'J'hat day was not io (Ucace holy kept,
Milton.

it a feall to

Ingenuous fhamc, wd the apprcheolioiu of dii^

6

U 2

for a

the Lord.

20.

To

not to violate.

;

To punifti this offince in other faults.

Shuifff.

Sworn for thr« years term to live with ine,

..

..

KMy

fellow fcholars ; and to ketp thofe ftatuies
Tbatare recorded in this fchedulc here. Shaktfttare.
Lord God, there is none like thee : who ktcpfji

covenant and mercy with thy fetvants.
I Kitgt, viii. S3
Lord God of Ifrael, irff with thy lervant that
King', viii. 15.
i
tiiou promifodft him.
Mllinn.
Obey and kerp his great command.
His promife Palamon accepts ; but pray'd
Drydcit.
To krfp it better than the fitft he made.
My debtors do not *f«y their day,
Deny their hands and then refufe to p.iy. Drydeti,

My wilhes are,
lirydtn.
That Ptolemy may keef hit royal worj.
-.21. To maintain; to fupport with neceffa-

'

ries of life.

,

Eafe tyke, call'ft thou me hod? I fcorn the term
Siiak. Henry V.
Nor IhaU my Nell ieef lodgers.

Not to intermit.
Keep a lute watch over a (hamelefs daughter, left

(he

make thee

ftrifleft watch as (he was warn'd.
Not keeping
^ *

Milton.

To maintain

;

to hold.

They were honourably brought to Londoa, where
every one of them keft houfe by himlelf.

Dryden.

'

Shalefp.

Not to reveal ; not to betray.
Eccltf. viii. 17.
A fool cannot keep counfel.
virtues, though kepi from man.
Great are thy
'
Milton.
If he were wife, he would keep all this to himfelf.

Tilhtfon.

To reftrain

to with-hold.
If any rebel or vain fpirit of mine
;

I

modedy, but the appearance of it

;

and

not approve of a young woman keeping company
vitb men, without the pcrmilTion of father or moHroome on the Oiyjfey.
ther.

;

to curb.

If thy daughter be (hamelefs, keep her in Ih-aightly,
left (he abule herfelf through over-much liberty.

Eeclef.
It will teach them to keep in,

inclinations.

35. To Keep
to admit.

36.

and fo mafter their

Ljitke on Education.
off.

To bear to diftance

To Keep e^.

;

not

To hinder.

Locke.

By this they may keep them from little faults.
Lccke.

HI fenc'd for Heav'n to keep out fuch a foe.

Milion.

1

to

Mortimer's Hujbandry.
makes will not keep.
4. To dwell ; to Ihc conftantly.

abatement.

them the refpedl and reverence due to their parents.
Locke.

If the malt be not thoroughly dried, the air it

A breath thou art.
Servile to all the Ikiey influences.

That do this habitation, where thou keep'J!,

it

To Keep uf.
from ceafing.

38.

Knock at the ftudy, where, they fay, he keeps.

To ruminate rtrange plots of dire revenge.

To adhere ftridly

5.

:

It is fo whilft we keep

forfake that \vc go aftray.

But, with unalter'd pace, kept on.

in a line to pofterity.

To opprefs

;

up, that he might free his country. Life ofCleomenes.

The general idea of this word is care,
continuance, or duration, fometimes with
an intimation of cogency or coercion.

8.

to fub-

O

happy mixture ! whereby things contrary do fo
qualify and corrert the one the danger of the other's

Keep. «./. [from the verb.}
1.

Cuftody ; gu.-ud.
Pan, thou god of .Tiepherds alt.

anfwer, I will de-

own wretchedncfs nor, while we truft in the mercy
of God through Chrift Jefus, fear be able to ty.
;

To with-hold; to re-

ftrain.

Hooker.
rannize over us.
Truth may be fmothered a long time, and kept
under by violence ; but it will break out at laft.

implies, that we keep under our appetites, and
do not let (hem loofc into the cnjoymen(s of fenfe.
life,

Atlerbury.

Keep iack (by feiraBt froo^ prefujsptuous (ins.
.P>/.xix

Te Keep, v, n.

Spenfer.

Wiihin whofe keep the captive knights were laid;
Dryden.

Was one partition of the palace-wall.
2.

Guardianlbip ;

reftraint.

Youth is leaft looked into when they ftand in moft
Afcbam.
need of good ke(p and regard.

Slillingjteel.

To live like thofe that have their hope in another

Dryden.

To Keep J//. To continue unfubdued.
He grew fick of a confumption ; yet he ftill kept

7.

their families, and Iraafmit their lands and houfes

Addijon.
During his ftudies and travels he kept up a pundtual
correfpondence with £udoius.
Addifon.

our rule ; but when we
Baker on Learning.

So chearfully he took the doom ;
Nor ft>runk, nor ftept from death.

Young heirs, from their own rcfle£ling upon the
eftates they are born to, are of no ufc but to keep up

to

To go forward.

ToKEiF on.

6.

Locke.

defirc to continue it.

Shakcjp^

with to.

Did they keep 10 one conftant drefs they would
fometimes be in falhion, which they never are.
Addifon' s SpeHator.

up to the ftandatd.

To continue; to hinder

39. To Keep under.

Shakr/p, Meafurefol Meafure.

Hourly afflifl.

Albano keepi up its credit ftiU for wine. Addifon.
This dangerous diftenlion among us we keep up
and cherilh with much pains. AddiJonU Freeholder.

Which of our lambkins takeft keep.
The prifon ftrong,

Jer. xlii. 8.

be

I

as long as we are kepi under with the fenfe of our

Some are to clofe and referred, as they will not
<bcw their wares but by a dark light, and feem alBacon'i EJfayi,
ways 10 keep back fomewhat.

to

Land kept up its price, and fold for more years
purchafe than correfponded to the intcreft of money.
Locke.
This reftraint of their tongues will keep up in

»/.

excefs, that neither boldnefs can make us prefume,

fliall

laft;

Grapes will ketp in a velTel half full of wine, fo
Bacon.
that the grapes touch not the wine.

To Keep

To referve ; to with-

will ketp nothing iack from you.

30. To'^s.iv back.

unhurt;

Difdain me not, although I be not fain:

due.

To debar from any place.

remain

To maintain without

37.

Taylcr,
up and improve your hopes of heaven.
In joy, that which keepi up (he aAion is the

Whatfoever the Lord

To

durable.
Doth beauty keep w hich never fun can burn.
Sidney.
Nor ftorms do turn

Cod of this world did not blind their eyes,

would be impoflible, fo long as men love themTitlolfen.
felves, to keep them from being religious.
There is no virtue children (hould be excited to,
nor fault they (hould be kept from, which they may
not be convinced of by rcafons. I^cke on Education.
If a child be coaftantly kept from drinking cold
1i<]uor whilft he is hot, the cuttom of forbearing
it

29. To Kee» hack.
hold.

A man that cannot fence will keep out t/"builies
Locke on Education.
and gameftcrs company.
which a man muft guard, if
'i here are cafes in
he intends to keep (ait with (he world, and turn the
Collier,
penny.
The endeavours Achilles ufed to meet with Heflor,
the contrarj' etideavours of the Trojan K> keep out of
reach, are the iniiigue. Pope's J'levi tf Epic Poetry.

Locke.

difcourfe.

You have enough to keep you alive, and to keep

"

Dryden's /Eneii.
Creufa kepi behind.
The goddefs-born in fecret pin'd ;
Nor vilited the camp, nor in the council join'd ;
But keeping clofc, his gnawing-heart he fed
Dryden' t Homer.
With hopes of vengeance.
And while it keepi there, it ketpi within our a.iLocke.
thor's limilauoii.

3.

Boyle.

from the knowledge of divine myftcries.

On my better hand Afcaniut hung
And with unequal paces (ript along

Arhuthnot,

Sbakeffieare.

will prefcrve him.

\

Addi/on.

weight and &ienc(s, and keep

Some obfcure pafTages in the infplr'd volume ketp

clare;

Tcmpie.

And ralk at large ; but learn to keep it in.

To reftrain

li.

powers, will perfuadc them to follow out meafutcs.

Syphax, your zeal becomes importunate
I have hitherto permitted it to rave.

To Keep in.

jK«//6 ii.

The neceflTity of keeping well with the maritime

perceive in you fo excellent a touch of modefty, that you will not extort from me what 1 am
Hhakefp.
willing to keep in.

34.

our way,

have ended.

To conceal; not to tcU.

'ToKeep/*.

it is

Shakrfp.
To be her men, and wear her livery.
Thou (halt keep faft by my young men, until they

could

llie

think,

If we will keep in favour with the king.

The ancients were careful to coin money in due

Did, with the lead afTedlion of a welcome,
-Cive entertainment to the might of it j
Let hcav'n for ever keep it from my head.

If the

Eightfcore eight hours ? and lovers abfent hour.
Sbaiiejp. Otbtih.

Oh weary reckoning.

A virtuous woman is obliged not only to avoid im-

mon opinion of his invincible obfcurity, ha? kipt
off fome from leeking in him the coherence of his

Where Menelaus kepi his royal court.

28.

Dryden,

Twxlve Spartan virgins, noble, young, and fair,

Jc. /I'o remain in ; not to leave a place.
t*r'ythce, tell me, doth he keep his bed >

2g.

She would give her a lelTon for walking fo late,
that ftiould make her keep within doors for one lort.
Sidney.
night.
What I keep a week away > fcven days and nights i

To have fami-

32. ToYit.zr compariywith.
liar intercourfe.

A fupcrficial reading, accompanied with the com-

To the pompous palace did refort.

z6.

Neither will 1 wretched thee
In death forfake, but keep thee company.

Hayward,

*

ftay.

!

a laughing-ftock to thine enemies,
Ecclef. xli. 11.

aild a bye-word in the city.

24.

Fope'i Od\'JUey.

To continue in any place or ftate; to

2.

Left it Ihould take more freedom than I'll give it.

To have in the houfe.

,23.

With all our force we kept aloof fo fea,

And gain'd the iftand where our vclTels lay.

I

Much more affliftion than already felt
Tliey caonot well impofe, nor I fuftain,
If they intend advantage of my labours.
The wqrk of many bands, which earns my keeping.
•> '
Mi/ton.
,2 2.

certain flate.

Heav'n doth know, (0 (hall the world perceive,
That I have turn'd away my former felf,
Shake/f.
So will I thofe that kefi me etmpany.
Why lliould he call her whore i Who keept her
*"
ejmpjny
SBake/p. Othello.
What place ? what time ?
What mean'ft thou, bride this company to<f</' f
Donne.
To fit up, till tliou fain would ileepf

33.

To remain by fome labour or dtort in%

1.

one ; to accompany.

It cannot bci

I

To frequent any

7« Keep tompany.

31.

The Icing Ihould hrf his word in loving us
He will fulpeft us ftill, and find a time

..-.

K E E

K E E

K E E
To Qbferve

10.

K'eeper.
I.

». /.

[from ;((•</.

One who holds any thing for the ufe of
another.

The good old man haviDg neither reafon to diT.
tuade,

K EN

A noble charge

her ketpcr by her fide

;

.

Bacon.

If thou ket:'Ji from far,
Among the Pleiads, a new-kindled ftar
'Tis (he that fliines in that propitious light. Dryden.
Vie ken them from ^far, the fetting fun
Plays on their Ihining arms.
Addtfon.

The keeftr of the pi 'm, call to him.
Shaliff.
I'd now
With horns exalted (lands, and feems to lowe

To watch her walks his hundred eyes apply'd.

which did put us In fome

hope ot land.

One who has prifoners in cuftody.

2.

K E R

IQErR
kenmitg^ thick clouds,

§iiit, nor hopej to ptrfuade, received the thingswith the inind of a keefer, not of an owner. Sidnry.

To know.

2.

A pleafant beverage he prepar'd before,
Of wine and water mixM, with added '.lore.
Of opium to his keeper this he brought.
;

Who fwallowed unaware the lleepy draught. Dryd. Ken. w./. [from the verb.]
One who has the care of parks, or beafts
of fight.

View;

reach

3.

of chace.

Lo

There is an old tale goes, that Heme the hunter,
Sometime a keeper here in Winfor foreft,
Djth all the Winter-time, at llill of midniglit,
Walk round about an oak with ragged horns.

When from the mountain topPifanio (hew'd thee.

.

A cot for dogs.

The omentum;

the occalioii of a rupture.

Kelp. ti./.

A little herd of England's tim'rous deer,
Maz'd viith a yelping itmnc/ of French curs.
Sbakefpeare.

ktnneli flow to one

The

he is not ready; from kilter, to gird,
Skinner.]
Danifh.
ToKemb. t. a. [cfEmban, Saxon; kammen, German : now written, perhaps Icfs
properly, to comb.]
To feparate or dif-

in

(hort

Kept.

When the price of corn falleth, men break no
through

A plain ktrchitf. Sir John; my bro.vs become nothing elfc. Sbakefp. Altrry lyivesoflVindf.

01 what a time have you chofc out, brave Caius,

To wear a kerciiief.

Shakefp.yttliut Ce/ar.

The proudelt i,rchiefnf the court Ihjll reft
Well fatished of what they love the bell.
Ihydtn'

To fee at a diftance; to defcry.
2.
I

that

an

ill

kerned or faved
;

Carew.
to granu-

late.

The principal knack is ii> making the iuice,
when fufficiently boiled, to kern or granulate. Greiy*
KE'RNEL. ff,/ [cyjinel, a gland, Saxon;
knrne, Dutch ; cerneau, Fr.}
I . The edible fubftance contained in a (hell.
As brown in hue
As hazle-nuts, and fwceter than the kernels.
Sbakefpeare,

There can be no kernel in thi^

light nut;

foul of this man is his clothes.
The kernel of the nut ferves

the

Sijtikefp.

them for bread and
More.
meat, and the (hells for cups.
z. Any thing included in a hulk or integu-

ment.
The kernel of a grape, the fig's fmall grain,
Can doath a mountain, and o'erlhade a plain.
Oats are ripe when the ftraw turns yellow and the
Mortimer's Hujhandry,
kernel hard.

The feeds of pulpy fruits.

3.

I think he will carry this iiiaiut home in his
pocket, aisd give it his fon for an apple.— And fowing the kernels of it in the fea, bring forth more
Sbakefp. Tempefl.
iOands.
The apple inclofed in wax was as frc 1h as at the
firft putlmg in, and the kernels continued white.

\co-vrecheif,

becomes the tire valiant.

Dutch, to know.]

falleth out

To take the form of grains

2.

Bacon's Nai. Hifi,

4.

Any loofe cloth ufed in drefs.
Every man ha4 a large kircbi'f folded about the
neck,
llayumrd.

The central part of any

thing upon
which the ambient ftrata are concreted.

A folid body in the bladder makes the kernel 0^%
Arbutbnot.

ftone.

thou haft the nght arched benl of the brow, that

Saxon; keiman,

it

harveft foon emptieth their old Itore.

pret. and part. pafl". ot keep.

Chaucer;
and
hence a handkerchief to wipe the face or
hands.]
1. A head drefs of a woman.
I fee how thine eye would emulate the diamond;

Drydcn.

Milton.
within a

To harden as ripened corn.
more ground than will fupply their own turn, where-

cou^re, to cover, and chif, the head;

Thy head and hair are fleek
And then thou kcmb'Jk the tuizes on thy cheek.

At once n far as angels ken, he views

corn,]
1.

time their

Hayward.

is

Denbam,

Kerch e'if. n.f.

entangle by a denticulated inftrument.
Yet are men more Inofe than they.
More kemh'd and bath'd, and rubb'd and Irimm'd,
More fleek.
Ben Jonfon.

The difmal fituation, wafte and wild.
Xh« next day about cttnin| we 6w,

by which corn is ground*
written likewife quern.
It is ftill
ufed in fome parts of Scotland.
To Kern. •v. n. [probably from kernel, or,
by change of a vowel, corrupted from
It

:

is,

I.

fo

Yet, when they lift, would creep,
If ought didurb'd their noife, into her womb.
And kennri there yet there ftill bark'd and howl'd
Within, unfccn.
Millonli Patadije Lojl.
The dog kennelled in a hojlow tree, and the cock
roorted upon the boughs.
l.'EJlrange.

Ke'lter. n.f. [He is not in kelier, that

[cennan,

canalis,

Pbilips's Britort.

pieces of ftone,

contempt.

Kaltigh.

a.

fink,

Sfenfcr.

1'hen docs fortune promiie fair.

To Ke'nnel. t. n. [from kennel.] To lie;
to dwell ; ufed of beafts, and of man in

Boy/e on Ci^Uurs.

which being failened from the kelfrjn to the beams
of the fecond deck, keep them from fettling, or

-v.

Fr.

He always came in fo dirty, as if he had been
dragged through the kennel at a boatding-fchool.
Arhu'hnol.

We have added clofe pillars in the royal (hips,

TcKejt.

chenal,

numbers increafed.

A fait produced from calcined

fiving way.

Dutch ;

The watercourfe of a ftreet.
Latin.]
Bad humours gather to a bile; or, as divers

fea-weed.
In making aium, the workmen ufe the alhes of a
fea-weed called kiip, and urine.

The hole of a fox, or other beaft.

4. [Kennel,

are their ket:rH

Kern. n.f. A hand-mill confining of two

Hayward.

A number of dogs kept in a kennel.

3.

villainy,

If in good plight thefe northern kerns arrive,

aiakefp.

kyi/eman'i Surgery.

Kelson. »./. [more properly keelfon,~\
wood next the keel.

Hidney.

The fcdiiious remain within their Aation, which,
by reafon of the nallinefs of the beaftly multitude,
might be more litly termed a kennel than a camp.
2.

up in knavery and

Judice had with valour arm'd,

A hell-hound, that doth hunt us all to death.

inwraps the guts.
The very weight of bowels and ke//, in fat people,
is

ing

From forth the kennel of thy womb hath crept

It

which

that

an Irifh boor.
Out of the fry of thefe rake-hell horfeboys, grow-

A dog fure, if he could fpeak, hid wit enough to
defciibe his kennel.

is

n. /.

Locke.

ignorance,

A

Hill.

foot-

Sbake/peare.

K e'n N E L n.f. [chenil, Fr.]

fmall barrel,
Fr.]
n.f.
commonly uied for a fifli barrel.

which are

Irifli

;

When we confidcr the reafons we have to think,
that v.'hat lies within our ken is but a fmal] part of
the univerfe, we (hall difcovcr an huge abyfs of

I'he gaol of the (hire is kept at Launcedon : this
keepcrjhip is annexed to the conflablefliip of the
Carru).
caftle.

•Kell.

parent, filled with a numerous olFspring,
the little red granules.

Compell'd thefe (kipping kernet to truft iheir heels,

Drydcn.

a keeper.

To called in Scotland, being a foupe
made with ftireded greens.

now know it to be the extended body of an animal

Milton.

Coarting, they kept the land within their ken,
And knew the North but when the pole-ilar (hone.

Ke'epsrship. «./. [from keeper.'] Office of

Kell. »./. [A fort of pottage. Jin/.]

Kermes is a roundifli body, of the bigcefs of a
pea, and of a browniih led colour.
It contains a
multitude of little dillinfl granules, foft, and when
crulhed, yield a fcarlet juice.
It till lately was
underdood to be a vegetable excrcfcence ; but we

Rude, as their (hips, was navigation then j

as liath the lord chancellor of England.
Ctmiel.

{caaue,

Ke'rmes. n.f,

fupplied.

No ufeful conipafs or meridian known

1

Moxon't Mecb. Exercifet.

called a kerf.

foldier ;

Saw within ken a glorious angel ftand.

Js a lord by his office, and called
Lat.]
lord keeper of the great feal of England,
and is of the king's privy-council, under
whofe hands pafs all charters, commiflions,

Millon.

Kerf. v.f. [ceojipan, Saxon, to cut.]

Miltcn.

KeePFR of tht great Jeal. [Ctiflti magmftgilli.

[from
keicheifl
"Drefled; hooded.

adj.

The evening comes
Kerebeift in a comely cloud.
While racking winds are piping loud.

He foon

Hilkiah went unto Hildab,/(«;^raf the wardrobe.
i Kin^i.

Keo.

/

Stretch'd out to th' amplcft reach of profpefl, lay.

of any thing.

and grants of the king. This lord keeper,
by the ftatute of 5 F.liz. c. 18 hath the
like jurifdiftion, and all other advantages

Kerch e'i FT.

Kern. n.f. [an Irifh word.]

Of paradife the higheft ; from whofe top
The bsmifpherc of earth, in cleareft ken,

One that has the fuperintendence or care

,

Sbakefp, CymbeiiKe.

It was a hill

Shakc/peare,

.

within 2 ken our army lies. Sbak. Henry IV.

Thou waft within a ken.

The firft fat buck of all the feafon's fent.
Drydev.
And keeper takes no fee in compliment.
4.

!

"1

The fawn-away Hit between two pieces of ftuff ia

Obfolete.

Skakejp,
*Tis he, 1 ken the manner of his gait.
Now plain I ken whence love his rife begun ;
Sure he was born fome bloody butcher's fon,
Guy's Pajl.
Bred up in (hambies.

J^ryden,

Kerche'iped.

Knobby concretions in children's flefh.
•roKE'RNEL. 1'. ». [from the noun.] To
5.

ripen to kernels.
gfcrden-rouncivals fown in the
and yield a c"od incrcafe.
Mortimer's Hufhandry.

In Staflbrdftiire,
fields kernel well,

Ke'rnelly.

adj.

[from

kernel.]

Full o'

kernels ; having the quality or refemblance

of kernels.

Kb'unelwort.

KEY
Ke'iNBLWoiT.

Ainf-ui.

herb.

Ke'rsev.
Fr.]

v. f.

[karfaye,

KID

K I C
An

[/crcfularie.]

n. f.

Dutch; carim,

Coarfe ftufF.

Tiifjta phrafcs, filken trims precifc.
I doforfwcar ihcm; and 1 here proicll,
Henceforih my wooing mind Iball be cspreft

Shatrff.
Id ruflet yeas, and honelt kir/ry noes.
HU lackry with a linen flock oa one le;. and a

weaves it into cloth, and another ii>to terfy or ferge.

«./. [from caicchio, Italian, a barheavy (hip; i& ihomh ketch.

A

wonder

And keep it from the earih. Shaktfp. Henry Wl\.
KE'T'l'LE. »./. [c«l, Saxon; it^/<'/, Dutch.]
In
veflel in which liquor is boiled.
the kitchen the name of pet is given to
the boiler that grows narrower towards
the top, and of kettle to that which grows
wider.
In authors they are confounded.
The fire thus form'd, (he fets the kettle nn ;

A

Like burnilh'd gold the little feether (hone. Drydeit.

A

drum of which the head is fpread over a
body of brafs.
As he drains his draughts of Rhenilh down.

The ketlledmm and trumpet thus briy out
Sbake/p. Humlet.
The triumph of his pledge.

KEY. n.f. [ccej, Saxon.]
1. An inftrument formed with cavities correfpondent to the wards of a lock, by
which the bolt of a lock is pufhed forward or backward.
If a man were porter of hell gate, he Ihould have
Sh^iffp. Mac6eil>.

old turning the key,
Fortune, that arrant whore.

Ne'er turns the key to th' poor.

Shakrff. K. Lear.

Yet fome there be, that by due fteps afpire

To lay their juft hands on that golden key.
Milton.
That opes the palace of eternity.
Conscience is its own counicllor, the fole marter
of its own fccrets; and it is the privilege of our

man (hould keep the

key >( his
South.
own brealt.
He came, and knocking thrice, without delay
the
key. Dryd.
The longing lady heard, and turn'd

An inftrument by which fomething is

2.

Hide the key of the jack.

Siil/l.

An explanation of any thing difficult.
An emblem without a key to*t, is no more than

a tale of a tub.
Thefe notions,

L'Efiraxgr.
in

the writings of the ancients

CreflTy was loft by h'ck/bms and foup-meagre,

A key of fire ran along the (hore.

Fenltn,

Ke'yhole. n.f. \key and hole.]

The per-

the Joor or

in

difdain of a wife.

That hugs his kickfy-^uiekfcy here at home,
Spending his manly marrow in her arms. Shakefa,
Kid. n.f. [kid, Danilh.]
1
The young of a goat.

lock through

Leaping like wanton kids in pleafant fpring.
Fairy ^iieeit.
There was a herd of goats with their young ones,
upon which fight Sir Richard Graham tells, he wouh)
fnap one of the kids, and carry him clofe to their
lodging.
fHiloH.
Sporting the lion ramp'd, and in his paw
Dandled the kid.
Miltox.
So kids and whelps their fires and dams exprefs;
And fo the great I meafur'd by the lefs.
Dryden.

which the key is put.
Make doors faft upon a woman's wit, and it will
out at thecafcment;

and 'twill out at the
Shakfp.
I looked in al the keyhole,
and (aw a well-made
fliut that,

keyhole.

man.
I

Tatler.

keep her in one room ;

15(5 key, look here,

is

I

lock it

in this pocket;

The keyhole is that left ? Moll certain.

Prior.

[From cidnjulen, Welfh, a faggot.] A
bundle of heath or furze.
To Kid. i>. a. [from the noun.] To bring
2.

Ke'vstone. ?/./. [key iii&fione.'] The middle ftonc of an arch.
If you will add a ^07?^""" and chaptrels to the arch,
breadth of the upper part of the keyfione be
the height of the arch.
Moxon.

forth kids.

let the

Kibe.

Ki'dder.

kibes:

fteal

Lat.]

"K.

a. \kauchen,

He muft endure and digeft
foot that kicks

him, and

.il!

affronts,

condition thiit he might have his child again; for he
had fmelt it out, tliat the merchant hinifclf was the
kidxijfper,
L'EJIionge.
Thcie people lye in wait for our children, and
may be conlidered as a W\ni oi kiJaafpers uiihin
the law.
SfiHaier.

;

calco,

KI'DNEY. n.f. [Etymology unknown.]
I.

adore the

they have the fame figure as kidneybcans
their length is four or five

South.

:

once upon a day.

To fee a footman kick'd that look his pay.

three, and their
the rifht is under the
liver, and the left under the fpleen.
The

fingers,
P't"-,

ufe of the kidneys is to fcparate the urine
from the blood, which, by the motion of
the heart and arteries, is thruft into the
emulgent branches, which carry it to the
little glands, by which the ferofity, being
feparated, is received by the orifice of the
little tubes, which ro from the glands to
the pelvis, and from thence it runs by the

Sivifi.

To beat the foot in anger

Wherefore kick ye at

my facrifKe, which I have

i Sam. ii. 29.
Deut. zxtii. 15.
Jclhurun waxed fat and kicked.
Scriptures
are terrible
The do<9rines of the holy

enemies to wicked men, and this is that which
againft religon, and fpurn at the
da{)rlnes of that holy book.
tilUtfon.

makes them kick

Kick. n.f. [from thf verb.]
the foot.

their breadth

thicknefs two:

Another, whofc fon had employments at court,
valued not, now and then, a kicking or a caning.

To KICK. -v. n.

Thefe are two in number, one on each
fide:

kifs the hand that ftrikes

him.

commanded ?

are ftruck with the fingers
Pamela lovss to handle tiic fp ionel, and touch the
Pamela.
keji,

;

To ftrike with the foot.

or contempt.

The parts of a mufical inftrument which

German

huinan beings.

The man compounded with the merchant, upon

as, kihed heels.

To KICK.

Ainfiwcrth,

Kidnapper, n. f. [from kidnap."] One
who fteais human beings a manftealer.

Troubled with

[from >f;/r.]

An engroffer of corn to

To KIDNA'P. 'V. a. [from kind, Dutch, a
child, and //«/.]
To fteal children ; to

-..
Sbakefp.
The toe of the pcafant comes fo near the heel of
our courtier, that it galls his kihe.
Shakefp.
One boafied of the cure, calling them a few kibes.
tVifeman.

adj.

». /.

enhance its price.

[from kerb, a cut, German,
Skinner; from kilnue, Welfll, MiKfhe<iv.]
An ulcerated chilblain ; a chap in the
heel caufed by the cold.
u. f.

Ki'bed.

Hammer,

'

He wears his honour in a bos, unfeen.

Money paid
Ainjiu.

foration

Ki'cKSY-wiCKSEY. ft. f. [from kick and
•wince.]
A made word in ridicule and

Shakefp.

for lying at the key, or quay.

plainly, and is a key to their ihoufihts.

Burtltt't'tteorytf the Earth.
Thufc who are accuftomed to icafoa have got the
Locke.
true key of books.

.

little

DryJeit.
And lighten'd all the river with a blaze.
7. Kejr cold was a proverbial expreffion, now
out of ufe.

darV ly delivered, receive a clearer light when compared with this theory, which reprcfents every thing

4.

tiny kickjhawi.
Staifp. Hemy IV.
In wit, as well as war, they grve us vigour;

raifed perpendicular for the eafe of lading

and unlading fhips.

Ke'yace. n.f. [from key.']

Miltoti,

A difti fo changed by the cookery that it
can fcarcely be known.
Some pigeons, a joint of mutton, and any pretty

A bank

yaar, French.]

It anger'd Turenne

fcrewediJf turned.
3.

[AToy^, Dutch ;

If 'twere a kiie, 'twould put me to myilipper.

The glori6us Itandard laft to heav'ii ihcy fpread.
With Peter's keys ennobled and his crown. Pairfax.

nature, that every

2,

Shakeffeare.

6.

Poor key cold figure of a holy king!
Pale alhes of the houfe of Lancafter.

That fuch a ketch can with his very bulk
Take up the rays o' th' beneficial fur.

Ke'ttledrum. n.f. \kettle vc\6. drum^

kickfhoesf

Knows not my feeble key of untun'd cares ?

A little kind of baftard
Hanmer.

I

youth into their flight cultodies, and fend ihem over
back again transformed into mimicks, apes, and

In fev'n (hort years, that here my only fon

His *</?>•(/ kind,
Aplealing vein of glory, vain did find. Fairy Qutin.
Kites and liefirelt have a refemblance wiih hawks.
Bacon.

rel.]

thing ridiculous.
Shall we need the monfieurs of Paris to take our

Haft thou fo crack 'd and fplitted my poor toiigue
Fairfax.

Ketch.

Something uncommon; fantaftical; feme*

1.

Not know my voice! Oh, time's extremity!

Ouly that noife heav'n'i rolling circle* i^^.
». /.

tion

Shakejp.

take you to go in the fong?

It is ftill

ufed in Scotland.

Ke'strel.
hawk.

think with truth, to lie only a corrupof qtielque cho/e, fomething; yet
Milton feems to have underftood it otlirwife; for he writes it kicKjhoc, as if he
thought it ufed in contempt of dancing.]
I

But fpeak you with a fad brow? Or do you play
Come, in what *<)> Ihall a man
the flouting Jack?

f».iy.

,

with his foot.

Ki'cKSHAw. n.f. [This word is fuppofed,

Hbakejpeare.

HaU.

Thy ktrfiy doublet fpicading wide,
Drew Cic'ly's eye afide.

Ki'cKER. n.f. [from kifk.] One whofliiket

And won thy love doing thee injuries;
But 1 will wed thee in ani>ther i'ey,
With pomp, with triumph, and with revelling.

The fame wool one man felts it into a hat, another

Kest. The prater tenfe oi coft.

quick.
Before my foot falutea you with a */V*. Dryd. "itv.

Hippolita, I won'd thee with my fword,

Sbaktfp

ttr/ty boot-hofc on the other.

What, are you dumb ? Quick, with yoMt anfwert

[In mufick.]
Is a certain tone whereto
J.
every compofition, whether long orfhort,
ought to be fitted ; and this key is faid
to be either flat or fharp, not in refpeft
of its own nature, but with relation to
the flat or (harp third, which is joined
with it.
Harris.

ureters into the bladder.

A blow with

i^uincy,

K youth bboured under a complication of difeafes,
I

from his jncfentery and kidneyt. WifetiiaH' s Surgery.
a. bOlt;

KI N

KIL
t. Sort;

kind:

Think of that,

am

that, that

!!

m llionj

There are

bent ; arched.
The kimio handles feem with bears-foot carv'd,

fubjea to heat as butter; a man
Sbjff/j>.

of continual dilTolution -nd thaw.
''

Ki'mbo. ei(/.[a/chemio,ltalhn.] Crooked;

in ludicrous language.
a man of my kiJnry; thinko f

•..

Dryden's Virgil.

without

He obferved them edging towards one another to

VEft>'"'g'-

whii'per; fo that John was forced to fit with his arms

fara;: refolutinn

up the

HJttey, that take

And never yet to table have been ferv'd.

the world of this man's

noife.
,

,

bo named
A leguminous plant.

from its (hape]

Relation either of confanguinity or

I.

Monimer's Hupaniry.
) zr.y. Plants.

Kid'nEVWORT

[fo/j/f/M.]

the bonds of nature;

.

Make in the kiidfrkm a great bung-hole of purpofe.
Bacon.

SpYon;

1

Shaktfp. R. III.

Ye have brought us forth into this wildcrnefs, to
£x. xvi. 3.

Naming her kin to God, and God's bright ray,

There was kiWitg of younj and old, m.iking away
2 Mac. v. Ij.
of meu, women, and childreri.
2. To dellroy animals for food.
We're mere ufurpcrs, tyrants, and what's worfe.
To fright the animals, and to kili them up

4.

Siiake/pearf.

3.

take

itient.
"

The medicines, if they were ufed inwards, would

and therefore they work
Bactn.
'potently, though outwards.

'

nil thofe that u(e

them

,

;

or other mo4. To deprive of vegetative
tion, or aftive qualities.
Try with oil, cr barm ot drink, fo ihey be fuch
thinp »» ki// not the bough. Bacon' t Natural Hijl.
Catbarticks of mercurials mix with all animal

A diminutive termination from kind, a

5.

child,

kin, njuilkin.

filled

with general good

So rude a nine.

That a crown 'd head could no companion find,
Btitdy'd, becaufe the yi/7/er had been kind.

Ki'i.Low. /i.y! ['Phis feems a corruption of
coal and law, a flame, as foot is thereby
produced.]
u.

An earth of a blackilh or deep 'lue colour, and
joubilefs had its name Irom koUtnv, by which name,
in the North, the fmut or grime on the backs of
li'oodivatd.
chimneys is called.

KILN. n. f. [cyln, Saxom]

A (love;

a

fabrick formed for admitting heat, in order to dry or burn things contained in it.
There they
I'll creep up ii'ili the chimney.
always ufc

to difcbarge

their birding-pieces : creep

Shuk'Jf.
inio the kiln hole.
Afcer the putting forth in fprouts, and the drying
opon the kiln, there will be gaiiKd a buftiel in eight

Bacon.
of malt.
Phyficians cbufelime which is newly drawn out
Moxon'i
Mtcb^
Extr.
(lacked.
i;/a,
and
not
of the
Ttf

Ki'lndry. -v.

a.

[///« andt drj.~^

dry by means of a kiln.
n he be(» way ii (0 kitltdrj them.

K L T for
I

killttf,

To

Sjtn/er.

burn.

He will take thereof, and warm himfelf; yea, he
kiniihth it and baketh bread.

.

If. xliv. I J.

not forgetful of thofe fparks, which fonie
men's diiiempers formerly (ludied to kindle in par.»
liaments.
King Charles.
If the fire bums vigoroufly,- it is jio matter by
whai means it was at firft kindled there is the fame
force and the fame refrelhing virtue in it, kind/ed hy
a fpark from a flint, as if it were kindled from ihe
I

W.1S

Soiit/j.

To inflame the paffions

to exafperate j

;

to fire the mind.

to the

damned,

Ever in fear lo kindle yourdillike.
Shakefp,
He haih kindledhh wrath againll me, and counied

on the

as particularly

me as one of his eiiemies.

South.

'Till all indam'd, they all in one agree.

He is kind to the unibankfui and evil.

.AT/W in Teutonitk Englifh anfwers to ge?ms, and/trt
xo/fedcs; though this diftinfkion, in popular language, is not always obferved.

Race; generical clafs.

To Ki'NDLE, i>. ». [cinnu, Welfh; cynoelan, Saxon ]
1.

Booker.

kinds.

As when the total kind

When' 'thou walked through the fire, thou (halt

"

but no! raiionalia)
For though they do agree in kind,
grant ;

Sontb's Sermons.

He with his wife were only left behind
Of perilh'd man ; they two were human kind.
Dryden.

Some aflsof virtue are common to Heathens and
but

I

fuppofe

//. xliii.2.

[From cennan, Saxon]

To bring forth.

It is ufed of fome particular animals.
Arc you native of ihis place ?
As the coney that yoM fee dwells where (he it
,

Hh'ake/p,

Ki'ndl'ER. »./. [froin kindle.'] One thaC
lights; one whOjinHam^s.
Now is the time that rakes their revels keep,
.

Iludiiras.
Spccifick difference we find.
God and Nature do not principally concern ihemfclvcs in the prefervalioo of particulars, but kindt

and companies,

2.

rteither'ihalt the ifame kindle ofoa

kindled.

Miitm'i Puradl/eLoJI.

That belli are animalia,

bomr,

—

Of Wid!, 'm ordeily ariay on wing.
Came fummdn'd over Eden, to receive

I

To catch fire.
not be
thee,

Thus far we have endeavoured in part to open of
what nature and force hiwt are, according to their

Daniel,

Each was a caufe ainne, and all combin'd
To kindle vengeance in her haughty mind. Dryden,

Luke, vi. 35.

Their names of Thee.

jfob, xix. 1 1.

Thus one by one kindling each other's fire,

Favourable; beneficent.

12

'

I've been to you a true and humble wife;

great Icftivals of the refurredJion and afceafion.

Chriltians;

Mortimer.

To Kindle, ii. a,
To fet on fire ; to light ; to make to
1

At all times to your will conformable

punifhment

1.

IValler.

fenfe.
Oiogenes was alked, in a i^Wof fcorn. What iVaa
the matter that philofophers haunted rich men, and

to animate; to heat ;

Kind. n,/. [cynne, Saxon.]

When love was held fo capital a crime,

unimportant

Some of the ancients, like */></ hearted men, have
talked much of annual reftigeriums, or intervals of

Sandys.

When couch'd in dreadful dens?

Bacon,

It has a flight arid

To pluck me by the beard. Shake/peart' s King Lear.

•

Hit hungry whelps ? and lor the killer WM,

6. Sort.

2,

By the kind Cods, 'tis mod ignobly done

prives of life.

'

rather venture in that kind, than

fun,

will.

What forrow, what amazement, what (hame was

many will

take five in the hundred.

:

Benevolent;

I.

One that de-

in Amphialus, when he faw His dear fofter-father
Sidney.
ind him the Ulltr of his only fon >
Wilt thou for the old lien hum, or fill

as, manikin, minikin, thom-

Dutch :

KIND. adj. [from cynne, relation, Saxon.]

acids, as appears by killing it with fpiitle.
Fl'iyer on ibe Humourt.

Ki'llsR. *./. [fromW/.J

caufe

Bacon.

Shaktffeare's Winter's Tale.
The odour of the fixed nitre is very languid; but
that which it difcovers, being diflblved in a little
hot water, is altogether differing from the ftink ol
the other, being of kin to that of other alcaliiale
^'yi'falts.

1 Sam. iiv. 1 1.
tWca for my (hearers i
To deprive of life, as a caufe or inftru-

Hbakefpeare's Henry IV,
This will encourage induftrious improvements, be-

not rich men philofophers ? He anfwered, Becalife
the one knew what they wanted, the otiier did not.

That \ was nothing.

my bread, and my flelh that 1 have

As will difpleafe you.

Davies.
A citizen of Hear'ii, to earth confin'd.
The fame generical clafs, though perhaps

not the fame fpecies j thing related.
The burft
And the ear-deaf'ning voice of the oracle.
Kin to Jove's thunder, fo furpris'd my fcnfe,

In their alCgn'd and native dwelling-place.
I

Send me your prifoners with the fpcedieft means.
Or you (hall hear in fuch a kind from me

The father, mother, and the kin befidc,
Drjden.
Were overborne by fury of the tide.
3. A relation ; one related.
Then is the foul from God ; fo pagans fay,
Which faw by nature's light but heavenly kind.

Dai'ft thou rtfolve to kill a friend of mine ?
rather kill two enemies.

Manner; way.

J.

Shakeff.

— Pleafe vou, I'd

Shall

Shakeffearr'.

Some of you, on pure inftiniS of nature,
Arc led by kind t' admire your fellow-creature.
Dryden.

Tumultuous wars

an agent.

Arbtttbttot^

Nature; natural determination.
The (kilful fhcphcrd peel'd me certain wands.
And in the doing of the deed oikind.
He ftuck them up before the fulfome ewes.

who are of the fame

Shall *;»with km, and kind with kind confound.

to put to death, as

*;// this whole alfembly with hunger.

corn, and caiied decuma;, or tithes.

4.

race.

/^/fw, Dutch, j

1 o deprive of life ;

thofe

Relatives ;

2.

Dry Jin.
But fure thou'rl but a tiUeikix of wit.
TV KILL. f. a. [anciently To quell; cpellar

but you are of kin, and fo a

writ

Bactn's Henry VII.

The tax upon tillage was often levied in kind upon

Bacon's Advice to yUliers.
Th' unhappy Palamon,
Whom Thefeus holds in bonds, and will not free
Drydcn.
Without a crime, except his kin to me.

A fmall barrel.
is

compound for them.

friend to their perfons, not to their errour?.

Ki'l D E R K 1 N » /. [kitidekin,?i\i&hY, Dutch.]

A fun of man in thy large bulk

;

that had taken them, either to talce them in kind, ox

You muft ufe them with fit refpefls, according to

AinflU.

1

Natural ftate.
He did give the goods of all the prifoners unto thofe

affi-

nity.

Ki'dnbyvetch. \^anthillis.'\

2. Particular nature.
No human laws are exempt from faults, fince thofe
that have been looked upon as molt perfect in theiF
kind, have been found to have fo many.
Baker,
3.

Kin. n.f. [cynne, Saxon.]

Kidneyhtans are a fort of cod ware, that ate very
plealant wholefome food.

Ariuthnot.

a kimbo, to keep them afundar.

Ki'dneybean. »./. [pha/eolus.

khd from m»»»l virtues, yet diiFer in the degrees cf
petfeaion.
Atterilirjj
He, with a hundred arts refin'd,
Shall rtretch thy conquefts over half the jt/W^. Pbfe^

them to be performed by
among

ChriHiaii.^, after a more fublime manner than

(he Healhcas) »od even when they do bsC differ in

pay,

Kindlejs of riot, enemies of lleep,

Ki'ndly, ai/'y, [from ;W.] Benevolently;
favourably; with good will.
if

Sir

riiurio borrows his wit

looks,, and fpends

from your ladyfhip'i

what he boriows kindly in yout

Sbukejptare,
company.
1 Icmetime lay here in Coriolt,
Shak,
kindly.
At a poor man's houfe : he ua'd mi
Be kindly atTcflioned one to another, wiih brothcilY love, in^gnourprefctiiiigene to anoiher.

Rom.tti. 10*

K I n

K IN

K I N
A fubftitute (hines brightly as a king,

His grief fome pity, othen blame i

The fatal caufc all UtiJ/y feek.

Prior,

XhJ/ifr enterti'm their friends;

With good words, and couni'mnce fprighlly,

Kings it make gods, and meaner creatures j(;>^.

Sv^ift,

Ki'ndly. t7Jj. [from iinJ ; probably from

Sbake/p.

The king bcLoming graces,

Hvii the fubftantive.]
1.

Homogeneal;

kindred

congeneal;

The moon beilows, kingjifaers play on (hore.

Until a king be by ; and then his ftate
Empties ilfelf, as doth an inland brook
Into the main of waters.
Sbake/f,, Aler. of Venice,
True hope is fwift, and fiics with fwallows wings

Who, with Icfs defigning end<i
Strive to treat ihem all politely.

When dew refrefhing on the padure fields

There we'll fit
Ruling in large and ample cmpery.
O'er France, and all her almoli</'«j/)i dukedoms.

Bounty, perfcv'rance, mercy, lowlinefs,

the fame nature.

Devonon, patience, courage, fortitude,
1 have no rclilh of ihcm.
Sbakefpearg^i Macbeth.

This competency I befeech Cod I may be able to
digell into it/»<//y juice, that I may grow thereby.

Thus ftates were form'd ;

the

Sbakefp.

name of king unYet thisplace

known,

Temper or nourilh.
Miltvn'i Faradifc Lnji.
2. The foregoing fenfc fecms to have been
originally implied by this word; but following writers, inattentive to its etymology, confounded it with kind.
3. Bland; mild; foftening.

2. It is taken

Ye beav'ns, from high the dewy neflar pour,
Pope.
And in foft filence Ihed the kindly fliow'r
Ki'ndness. k. /. [from kinJA Benevolence; Btfneficencc ; good-will; favour;

experience or opinion of iiKdnf/s to us.
Rvgers^s Sermom.

Ki'ndred. «. /. [from

kind;

cynpene,

4.

by fir William Dugdalc, king al aims.

ludicrous.
England is fo idly king' J,

Her fceptre fo fiirtaftically borne.
That fear attends her not. Shakcfpeare's Henry V.
2. To make royal ; to raife to royalty.
Sometimes am I a kin; ;

tion; confanguinity;

Then treafon makes me wi(h fflyfelf 1 begg.nr.
And fo I am then crulhiog penury
Perfuades me, 1 was better when a king
Then am 1 king' d a%i\rt. Shaktfptare's RichardW.
:

affinity.

Like her, of equal kindred to the throne.
You keep her conquells, Ad extend your own.
Drydat,

2. Relation ; fuit.
An old mothy faddle, and the Ilirrups of no kindifd.

Sifak.

3. Relative.
think there is no man fecure
But the queen's Undre.i. Shakt/ftartU Richard III.
Nor needs thy jufter title the foul guilt
I

Of Eaftern kings, who, to fccurc their reign.

Mud have their brothers, fons, and kindred (lain.
;

A god.

June isdrawn in a mantle of dark graf'; green, and
upon his head a garland of bents, kingcups, and
Peach,
maidenhair.
Fair is the kingcnp that in meadow blows.
Cay.
Fair is the daify that bcf^de her grows.

Ki'nc DOM. n.f. [from king,^
t. The dominion of a king; the territories

fifgan. ]
J.

.

of royalty;

Adam bow'd low; he, kingly, from his flate
Milton's Paradife Lfk.
His hat, which never vail'd to human pride.
Walker with rev'rcnce took, and laid afide ;
Low bow'd the reft, he, kingly, did but aod.
'

Inclirt'd not.

KincseVil. n.f. [/fj;/f and ftv/.]

Dunciad.
fcro-

A

fulous diftemper, in which the glands are

Sore eyes are frequently a fpecies oit\\t kingfevilf

Gay.
2.

A different clafs or order of beings'.

A

The animal and vegetable kingdoms are fo nearly
joined, that if you take the loweft of one, and the
highefi of the other, there will fcarce be perceived any

Locke.

diflerence.

A region

We know how fuccefsful the late ufurpcr was,
while his army believed him real in his zeal againft
kingjl'ip ; but when they found out the impotiure,
upon hii afpiring to the fame himfelf, he was prefcntly defcncd and oppofed by them, and never able

crown his ufurped grcatncfs with the addition of

to

that title whi^ he pafiionately ihiilled after. South.

Ki'ksfoi.k. n.f. [te andyS/i.] Relations;
thofe who are of the fame family.
Thofe lords, lince their (irft grants of thofe lands,
have bellowed thco amongft their kinsfolks,
Spenfer.

word chiefly ufed among naturalifts.

3.

a traft.
The wat'ry kingdom is no bar

My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends
forgotten me.

eft

To ftop the foreign t'pirits; but they come.

7"hc great king of iin^Sf

As o'er a brook, to fee fait Pjrtia.

Ki'ngfishi-k. n.f,
Hath in the table of hisTaw commanded,
That thou (hall da no mvtdcr. SiaHe/f, Ri^i. III.
of bird.

{lialcym,^

Shalejptare

A ipecics

Jot, lix. 14,

Ki'n'sman. It, f. [if/// and /«c«.j A man
of the fame race or family.
The jury he made to be chofen out of their near-

;

Monarch ; fupreme governor.

i^'ng Charles.

obedience.

Ainfiuortb.

Shaki'fpeare.

Mofes gavf unto them the kingdom of Silion, king
of the Amorites, and the kingdwn of Og, king ot
Balham.
Numb, xxxii.

KING. n. J. \k contrartion of the Teuof fovereign dignity. In the primitive
tongue jt lignifies ftout or valiant, the
kitvgs of moft nations being, in the beginning, chofen by the people on account of their ralour and ftrength. Ver-

air

Ki'ncspear. n.f. [afphcdelies.] A plant.
Ki'ncstoke. n.f. [/quatina.'^ A fifli.

fubjefl to a monarch.
You're welcome,
Moft learned, reverend fir, into our kingdom.

To milk the kine,
£'er the milk-maid fine
Hath open'd her eyne.
Ben "Johnf^n.
A field I went, amid* the morning dew,

word cuKing, or eyning, the name

With an
with fuperiour dignity.

Ki'nc LY. ad-v.

A

KlNE. n.f. plur. from emu.

To milk my kine.

He was not born to live a fubjeft life, each aAioB
of his bearing in it majelly, fuch a kingly entertainment, fuch a kingly magnificence, fuch a kingly heart
for enterprizes.
Sidney.
"^
1 am tar better born than is the king;
More like a king, more kingly in my thoughts.
Shakrfp.

Mjriitiier.

,

DiyJen.

Shakefpeare,

Noble; auguft; magnificent.

3.

and take their beginning from vicious humours inKi'-N-GCRAFT. n. f. [^/»f and cm/t.] The
If-'ifiman's Surgery.
flaming the tunica adnata.
vi'ord commonly
art of governing.
Ki'ngship. n.f. [from hng.^ Royalty ;
ufed by king "James.
monarchy.
Ki'nc c u p. ?/. f. \king and cup. The name
They deiigned and propofed to me the new-modelis properly, according to Gerard, kingc9b.'\
ling of foveieignty stni kingfltip, without any Kality
of power, or without any neceflily of fubjcdion and
The flower, crowfoot.

nate.

From thence afcendcd to his kindred Skies

A

by the touch of a king.

The kingapple is preferred before the jenneting.

related ; cog-

From Tufcan Corium he claim'd his birth;
But after, when exempt from mortal earth,

In loathfome beds, and leav'ft the kingly couch
watch-cafe to a common 'larum bell >
Siakefp,
Then (haltihou give me with ihy kingly hand.
will
power
I
command.
in
thy
What bufband

ulcerated, commonly believed to be cured

Ki'ncapple. w./ A kind of apple.

Dtnbam,

Ki'kdrej}. «i^'. Congenial

toniclc

Hallim,

To King. -u. a. [from the noun.]
To fupply with a king. A word rather
1

cogna-

S^-ifi.

Belonging to a king ; fuitable to a king.

Why Hell thou with the vile

King at Arms, a principal officer at
arms, that has the pre-eminence of the
fociety ; of whom there are three in
number, viz. Garter, Norroy, and ClaPhillips.
rencieux.
A letter under his own hand was lately fhewed me

Saxon.]
1. Relation by birth or marriage;

came I'ree dates.
2.

Lurk'd in her hand, and mourn'd his captive queen.
Pope.

love.

Ever bleft be Cytherej's (hrine,
Since thy dear bieaft has felt an ecjiial wound,
Since in thy kindncfs my defires are crown'd. Prior.
Love and inclination can be produced only by an

Pope.

The king unleen

!

If there be kindncfs, mceknefs, or comfort in her
tongue, then is not herhuiband like other, men*
Ecclcf. xxxvi. J^
Old Leiius profelTcs he had an extiaordinary kindCoUicr
for
feveral
young
people.
Kffs
of Friendjbip,

Dry den's Stale of InnoceiKe.
In Spaita, a kingly government, though the people
were pcrlcftly free, the adminiflration was in the
two kings and the ephori.
S^vift.
The cities of Greece, when they drove out their
tyrannical kings, either chofe others flora a new
family, or abolilhed the kingly government, and be-

by Bacon in the feminine;

A card with the pidlure of a king.

3.

Drjd.

love.

To rev'rencc thee.

as prince alfo is.
Ferdinand and Ifabella, kingi of Sp.tin, recovered
the great and rich kingdom of Granada from the
Bacon.
Moors.

Through all the living regions do'ft thou move.

And fcatter'ft where thou goeft, the kindly feeds of

Had been thy kingly feat, and here thy r.ice.
From all the ends of peopled earth, hid come

'Till common int'refl plac'd the fway in one
'Twas virtue only, or in arts of arms,
DiffuGng blelTlngs, or averting harms,
The fame which in a fire the fons obey'd,
A prince the father of a people made.

Thefefoft fires

Not only enlighten, but with ihJfy heat.
Of various inSacnce, foment and warm.

Mortimer's Hi{/t.

rats, are great enemies to fifh.

Ki'nglike. I
,.
,.
rr
[from ^,«rf.]T
"'i'K.'KGLY.
J
1. Royal ;
fovereign monarchical.
;

As jufticc, verity, temp'rance, (labtenefs.

of

May's Vitgil.
Bitterns, herons, fea-guUs, kingjiflicrs, and water-

kinfmtn, and their judges he made of their owa
Spenjtr^'

fathers.

Both fair, and both of royal blood they feem'd,
Wli»in kinfmtn to the crowa the heralds deem'd.
D'yJen.
Let
•

Kir

K I T
DrydmU Fablet.

the
There is a branch ' the Medicis m Niplcs
bead of it has been owned as a k'wfma.n by the great
:

about the building of an houfe to the God ot heaven,
with no other appearance than if his end were to
rear up a kitchen or a parlour for bis own ufe.
Hooker.
He was taken into fervice in his court to a bafe
office in his kitchen j fo that he turned a broach that
Bacon.
had worn a ctown.

duke, and 'tis thought will fucceed to his dominions.
AJMJon on Italy.

Ki'nswoman. »./. [kilt aa^ "woman.]

A

female relation.

A young noble lady, near kinfiioman to the fair

Helen, queen of Corinth, was come thither. Sidney.
The duke was as much in love with wit as he

Dcnx't's Letters.
was with his kinjivoman.
Kirk. «./. [cynce, Saxon; xvctxn.] An
old word for a church, yet retained in

We fee no new built palaces afpite.
No kitchens emulate the vellal fire.

Scotland.

Sfa/er.

Not is it all the nation hath thcfe Ipots,
There is a church as well as iiri of bcois.

Garden

To Klick. "v. n. [from clack.]
1. To make a fmall (harp noife.
2. In Scotland it denotes to pilfer, or fteal

away fuddenly with a fnatch.
To Km A B. v. a. [knafpen, Dutch; knaap,

Upe^iator.

Ki'tch E NMAID. n.f. [kitchen and maiii.] A

maid under the cookmaid, whofe bufinefs
is to clean 'the utqnOU of the kitchen.
Ki'tchenstuff. n.f. [kitchen and fiiiff.]
.An upper
or
'I he fat of meat fcummcd oft' the pot,

have a kirllt oi ? Thou
(ball have a cap to-morrow.
Sbakeff tare's Htnrj IV.
Thy gowns, thy (hoes, thy beds of rofes.
Thy cap, thy kinU, and thy poiies,

What ftuff wilt thou

Soon break, foon wither, foou forgotten.
Raleigh.

In folly ripe, in reafon rotten.

gathered out of the dripping-pan.
As a thrifty wench fcrapes kitchenjtujf.
And barreling the droppings and the Inuti"
Of walling candles, which in thirty year,

He took
The bride about the neck, and kiji her lips

maid employed to clean the

abakeffeare.

To treat with fondnefs.
The hearts ol I'rinces ki/i obedience.

[kitchen znA ivork.]

;

A bird of prey rhat infcfts the farms,
and fteals the chickens.

1.

More pity that the eagle Ihould be mew'd.
While kites, and buzzards prey at liberty.

And they did make no noife.

doth from an eagle.

Salute given
Kiss. n.f. [from the verb.]
by joining lips.
What feiile had I of her ftol'n hours or full ?
Sbak, Othello.

1 found not CaHio's kij^eson her lips.

Upon my livid lips beftow a kifs :

O envy not the dead, they feel not blifs
Ki SSER. »./. [from kifs.'\

One

I

'

Dryden.

that kijps.

and crufi.'\
Cruft formed where one loaf in the oven

Ki'ssiNGCRusT.

n. f.

\lij)ing

2.

Deict>ed kite ! thou lieft.

A

man may have a great eftatc conveyed to him j
but if he will madly burn, or childillily make paper
il/7ej, ot his deeds, he forleits his title with his eviGovernmitit of the Tongue.
dence.
jiinfworth.
Ki'tesfoot. n.f. A plant.
Ki'tten. ?;./. [kaltehen, Dutch. It is pro-

was

Kn. n.f. \kiite, Dutch.]
Skinner.

a cafe

httcd

to

dancing-mafter'i kit.

3.

kitten,

it, almoft like a
Gre-w's Mv/a-um.

A fmall wooden vefTcI in which New«. /.

[kegin.

Welfh;

A young cat.
fooner drown than an horfe, is
nor is the fame obferved in the

not experienced ;
drowning of whelps and kittens.
BrotuH*s Vulgar Erruurs.
It was fcratched in playing with » kitten.

Wife man.
keg,

Flemifh; cycene, Saxon; cuifene, French;
The room
tucina, Italian; kyJhcn,Mx{.\
in a houfc where the ptoviHoni are
cooked.

Vol. I»

the di-

time taken for the fingular, like f^VX-f».]

caftle falmon is font up to town.

Kl'TCHEN.

is hit,

of which the old plural
or yoting cats, which was in
cat,

That a mare will

A fm.ill diminutive fiddle.
Tis kept m

Shakfp. King Lear^

bable that the true fingular

The pedlar's filkcn treafury, and have pour'd it
Hhakefp. IVinler's Tale.
To her acceptance.
For thee, fond boy.

Her eyebrows on the toilet lay,
Aw.iy the kittrn with them fled,
As lees belonging to her prey.

TiKi'rTEN. <v. n. [from the noun.]So it would have dune

may ever know thou doll but figh

That thou no more (halt fee this kntick,

as never

mean thou (halt, we'll bar ihce fromfucceflion.

1

Sbakefpcare,

This cap was moulded on a porringer,
lewd and hlihy:
A
Why 'tis a cockle ora walnut (hell,
A knack, a toy, a tiick, a baby's cap. Shakeffeare.
But is't not prefumption to write verfe to you.
Who make the better poems of the two ?
For all thefe pretty knacks that you compofe,
velvet dilh;

fie, fie, 'tis

what are they but poems in prole

!

Denham,

1

And found a watch, with rings and lockets;

A copper-plate, with almanacks
Engrav'd upon't, with other inarii.

A

I.

an habitual

readinefs ;

HuJiiia:.
facility ;

a

•

lucky dexterity.
I'll

teach you the knacks

Andout of iheir nofes
Ben Jonfon's Gyfjies.
Draw ribbands and pofies.
The knack of fait and loofe palfcs with foolilh
people for a turn of wit ; but they are not aware all
while of the defperale confequences of an ill

this

VEJirang .

habit.

There is ac:rtain knark in converfation th.it givts
EJlrangt".
a^^ood grace by the manner and addrcfs.

V

Knaves, who in full allrniblics have the k':ack
Of turning truth to lies, and white to black. Dryden,
My author has a great *nari at t«>tirlvk : in the
end he makes another about our rehnin; in contioof
verfy, and coming nearer and nearer to tiu- church
Atterbuiy.

Rome.

The dean was famons in his time,
And had a kind of knack at rhyme.

Stiiifi.

A nice trick.

3.

For how Ihould equal colours do the knack ?
Cameleons who can painl in white and black ?
Pcjir.

[from the noun.] Jo
make a fliarp quick noife, as when a ftick

To Knack, w.

Helen wasjuft fiipt into bed ;

bring forth young cats.

would have

I

ranfack'd

Of eating of flax

3. A fiftitious bird made of paper.

Thefe bak'd with kijfngcrufis, and thofe
King't Cookery.
Brought him fmall beer.

2.

When I was young, 1 was wbnt
To load my (he with knacks 1

Crew.

A name of reproach denoting rapacity.

minutive of

A large bottle.

A little machine; a pretty contrivance;

The

touches another.

1.

Horfes will knabhle at walls and rats gnaw iron.
BrotvU.

A

Sbake/f. Merchant of Venice.

o bite

He expounded both his pockets.

When the fweet wind did gently ki/s the trees,

in fuch a night as this,

1

This word

to nibbK'^

found petiiaps no where elfe.

is

Alas

Shakeffeare.
heron, when flie foareth high, fo as Ibmefeen
to
pafs
over
cloud,
Iheweth
a
times Ihe is
winds; but kites, flying aloft, (hew fair and dry
Bacon.
weather.
leopard and a cat feem to di(rer]u(l as a ^I'/r

So much they love it; but to llubborn fpirits,
They fwell and grow as terrible as ftotros. Sbake/f.
3. Tt) touch gently.
:

idly, or wantonly ;

If I

Cookery work done in the kitchen.
Kite. n.f. [cyzi, Saxon; mil-jus.]

And in the fummer beauty i//i'<»each other.

The moon (hines bright

.

ToKna'bble. "V. n. [from i)ip5*)

Sviift.

Ki'rCHENWORK. ». /.

W.tlifuch a clamorous fmack, that at the parting
AU the church ccho'd
Shakiffeare's Taming of the Sbreu.
Their lips were four red tofes on a Italk,

2.

Hudiiras.

Laura to his lady was but a kiicbentvencb. Shjk.
Roatiing and boiling leave to the kitchentuench.

Sidney.

*

my own hole, than be muhefs of the world

a toy.

inftruments of cookery.

But who ihofe ruddy lips can mifs«
Which bleffed If ill themfelves do ki/u

fo (hat knab and knaf

wiih cares.
L'FJirange.
An afs was wilhing, in a hard Winter, for a little
warm weather, and a mouthful of frclh grafs to
knab upon.
L' Ejtrange.

I.

Ki'tchenwench. n.f. [kitchen indivench.]
Scullion ;

;

rather lie knahhing crufts, without

had mucli

1

fear, in

Donne.

To touch with the lips.

l;

when it is broken
may be the fame.

Indead of kiicbrnjiuff fome cry

TjKISS. 1). a. [cu/an, Welch; w'*-.]

Perhaps properly to

bite fomething brittle, that makes a noife

KN^^CK. n.f [cntirinje, (kill, SaX6n.]

Keli<lucly kept, perchance buys wedding cheer.

A gofpcl-pieaching miiiittiy.

To bite.

Erfe.]

in which efculent plants

What one party thought to rivet by the Scots,
that the other contemns, defpiting the kirk governKifg CbarUi.
ment and difcipline of the Scots.

Ki'rtle. /!./. [cyprel, Saxon.]
garment; a gown.
AH in a kirilc of difcolourtd fay
F'i'y £l?een.
He clothed was.

oak,

L'Eftrajigc.

Pofe.

fincrt orangery.

Cletrvelafta

Sbakefpeare.

The eagle timbered upon the top of high
and llie cat kittened in the hollow trunk of it.

are produced.
Gardens, if planted with fuch things as arc (it for
Bacon.
food, are called kitcbengardent.
A kitchengtirden is a more pleafant fight than the

Home they haften the ports to dight,
And all the kirk pillars, ere day-lighi,
WiihhawtJiBrabuds, and fweel eglantine.

Had kittcn'd, though yourfcif had ne'er been bsmi'

Ki'tchengarden. n.J. [kitchen and garden.]

•

Al the faime feafon, if your mother's cat

Thefe being culpable of this crime, er favourers
of their friends, which are fuch by whom their
kitchens are fometimes amended, will not fuficr any
Spenfer.
f«ch Ifatute to pafs.
Can we judge it a thing feemly for any man to go

tef me ihnd ncluded from my right,
Kobb'd of my kin/man's arms, who tirft ippMr'd
in fight.

K N A

n.

breaks.

Kna'cker. a. /. [from knack.]
Prior
I.

To

A maker of fmall work.
knacker, and fmith.
One rpart for rplow-right,
"

Martimcr,

A rope-maker.

6X

[Reflio, Latin.]

^in/w.

Knac.

Knac. n.f. \knai, a wart, Danifh.]

It is

wood.

I

f
Knotty; fct
,r

,

Kna'cgy. aij. [from lnag.\
with hard rough knots.

prominence.
You fliall fce many fine feati fet upon a knaf^\

Salhctcdai in troughs.
To Knap. -v. a. [knappert,

To bite

1 .

He knatftth the fpear in funder. Common

the hot blooded France, that dow'ilefs l©oV
:
i cou'.d as well be brought
To knee his throne, and fquire-likc penfion beg.

Our youngeft born

Shakrff.

Kneed, adj. [from biee."]

ufe.
We'll reveal it as bravely as the bcft,
"With amber bracelets, beads, and aUtbis knav ry.

Prayer.

make
[Knaap, Erfe,] To ftrike fo as to
a (harp noife like that of breaking.

t.

Shakt/peare.

water, and you

I .

Riling to the knees.

Sunk to the knees.
The country pealant meditates no harm,
When clad with (kins of beads to keep him warirrj

P<:p''' l^H"'-

it from friends.

Waggifh

;

In winter wcithcr uiiconcera'd lie goes,
Almoli kneedeep, through mire in clumTy Dioe!.

mifchievous.

Dtydn,

Here (he comes curft and fad ;

r»KNAP. T. ».

To make a Ihort iharp

Kne'edcrass. n. f.

Cupd is a knavljh lad.
Sbakejf.

Thus to make poor females mad.

noife.

.
,
„
,
ftandersreduced th«nioulderjfofoon, that the
knew they were
by heard them k>,af in before they

I

'-,

out.

2.

Dilhoneftly; fraudulently.
Waggifhly; mifshievoufly.

Ainfioorth,
I

;

1

1

a (harp quick noife.
Kna'psack. »./. [(torn hiappen, to eat.]

The bag which a foltiier carries on his
back a bag of provifinns.
be reThe conftitutions oi this church (hall not
;

realed, 'till I fee more religious

A'«« CharUs.

bams in Winter:

1

wiih

my inapfack, Ai>i.

back :

wcM leave

YOU with vour bottle at your
and travel
honour to ikidmeo, and riches to knaves,
Dryje^.
world.
to the ridge of the
till

we come

Kna'pweed. «./. ijaua, Latin.] A plant.

Knare.

German.]

»./. {htor,

knot.

,

.\ cake of fcurf lies baking

;

For as

a male child,

One parte of flerti on all degrees beftow'd,
And kneaded up alike with moUI'ning blood.

Ere hinds and bakers yet were born,
Prior.
That taught them both to fow and knead.
Tlve cake (he kneaded was the fav'ry meaU
Prior.

troi/gh.]

A verier hind than any of his knimei.

.^'y'"'-

petty rafcal; a fcoundrel; a dithoneft

fellow.
Moll men rather brook their being reputed knavrs,
.

accounted fools ; kninr, in
tlian for their honcfty be
Souib.
of credit.
the mean time, paffing for a name

When both plaintiff and defendant happen to be

knaves, there's equity
traftv
'

Ol'tcncr upon her kneet than on her feet.
Sbakeffeare'i Maclelb.
Died everyday (he liv'd.
Scotch (kink is a kind of ftrong nourilhmem,

made of the kneet and finewt of beef long boiled.
Bacon.

MUim.
and clafp thy kneet.
Wearied with length of ways, worn out with toil,
lb lay down and leaning on her kneet,

;

_

For help from Heav'n, and her ungrateful Jove.

Dry din.
J.

Or but by carting i»<v« get in,

tbtdriirat.

petty viUainy.
I. Diftioncftyi mcks;

bend ths

When thou do'ft aik me blefling, I'll ixee/iovra.
And aflc of that forgivcnefs.
Shakefpeare*t King hear.

Ere I was rifen from the place that (hew'd

My duty kneeling, came a reekir^ poll,
Shakefpeare.

A certain man ineet/ng down to him, faid, Lord,
have mercy upon my fon ;

for be is luoatick.

Matt. xvii. 14.
foon as you are drelTed, knrel and fay the
Taylor's Guide r» Devotion.
Lord's prayer.

As

by kneeling.
Receive from ui
Kneetriiute yet unpaid, proftration vile.

Milton.

Welfh, a funeral pile;
The found of a
cnyllan, to ring. Sax.]
bell rung at a funeral.

Knel. n.f.

I

\cnit,

would not with them to a fairer death,

And fo his knell is knoll'd.

Slaie/p.

Sea nymphs hourly ring his kneil
Sbakeff,. Timftji,
Hark, now I hcarthem.
When he was brought again to th' bar, to hear
His .{»£// rung out, his judgement, he was llirr'd
With fuch an agony, he fvveat eurcmely.
Sbaktffeare.

Are but as ice, which crackles at a

And call her languiSiing rrpards above.

upon't,

to

AH thefe motions, which we faw,

Invnk'd the caufe of all her miferies

Poft.

for 'twill reiurn, and turn i' account,

!

the leg is

Thy royal father
Was a moll lainted king: the queen that bore thee,

A card with a foldier painted on it.

What pow'r can hinder u» 10 wm
K«J v'vERY. n.f. [from knanie."]

knee, Dutch.]

joined to the thigh.

Dtyden.

genufleftion ;

Genufleftion ; worlhip or obcifance Ihown

1 beg

An honeft man may take a knave' t advice

If we are brought in piay

;

The joint of the leg where

I.

L'Eflrange.

But idiots only may be cozen'd twice.
4.

KNEE, n.f [cneob, Saxon

againft both.

See all our fools afpiring to \xkr.)rvt>.

and

Exodus.

Sidmy.
What then muft I that keep the knai^t.
He eats and drinks with his domcftick flavesj

A

[kntaJ

/.

Frogs Ihall come into thy kneadingtrought.

Yet hath fir fun the greater praife,
light;
Becaufe from him doth come her
So if my man muft praifes have,

the aft of

A trough in which the pafte Kne'etribute. n.f. [knee and trii/itte.]

of bread is worked together.

With gentle beams not hurting fight,

3.

».

To perform

To Kneel. i». ». [from knee.'\

From Goneril, bis midrefs, falutation.

Or from the oven drew his bread,

the moon the eye doth plcife

^incj.

Tlie kneepan muft be (hewn, with the knitliiij;
thereof, by a line Ihadow underneath the joint.
Peacbam en Drarujirtg.

Stew'd in his halte, half breathing, panting fbrib

No man ever reapt his com.

Kne'adingtrouch.

Both thefe are obfolcte.

about two inches bro<id,
.bout
bro<id
pretty thick, a little convex on both fides,
and covered with a fmooth cartilaoe on its
forefide.
Jt is foft in children, but very
hard in thofe of riper years: it is called
patella or mola. Over it pafles the tendon
of the mtifcles which extend the leg, to

round bone

knee.

Prometheus, in the kitrading up of the heart, feafoned it with fome furious particles of the lion.
Addi/on's SpeHalor.

KNA'VE. n.f [cnapa, Saxon.

A boy
A fervant.

His kingdom o'er his kindred world began
'Till knowledge mifapply'd mifonderl'tood,
And pride of empire, lour'd his balmy Wood.
Drydeu.

on the ground,

A little

Kne'epak. n.f. [iwf and pan^^

which it ferves as a pully.

a lump, where all beafts kneaded be,

A hard

"

1

It it

Wifdom makes him an ark, where all agree. Donne.
Thus kneaded up with milk th; new-made man

Dryden.

trees are found j
A;:d prickly Itubs inftead of
and old,
Or woods with knots and *«a>Mdelorm'd
.1.1 Drydcn.
Headlefs the mod, and hideous to behold

2.

feldom

Miller.

J

,

It is

pular language but to the atl of making
bread.
Here's yet in the word hereafter, the kneading,
of the
the making of the cakei, and the heating

motives ihanfoldiers

carry in .heir t»,f/ack..
jaunt, I'll try for once who
It you are for a merry
hedges in Summer,
can fbot it fariheft: there .ire
ar.d

fubftance.

An herb

Kne'eholm. ». yi \ajuifalitim.'\

Kxa'pbottlh. n.f. [paptrver fpumeum.
To KNE.'iD. f. a. [cna;ban, Saxon knedev,
A plant.
T rr. U
Dutch ] To beat or mingle any ftuffor
7()Kka'pple.t.». [hom knap.\ To break
applied in pooft' with

\^gromen geiMulalHm,\

An herb.

Kna'vishly. adv. [from kacevifb.'l
1.

:

z.

Tis foolifli to conceal it at all, and linawjb to do
2.

Having knees: ai in-kneed, ot aut-kneei.
Having joints as kneed grafs.

Kke'edefp. /jdj. [^knee ini deep.^

Kna'vish. adj. [from ina^e.]
1. Dilhoneft; wicked; fraudulent.

a veffel ot
a pair of tongs forae depth in
tongs.
(hall hear the found of the

Kiap

Why,

I.

Dutch.J

He will inaf the fpears a-pieces with his teeth. ^
J.

Sbakrffi. Cmiotamtt,

haps of trifling things of more coft and

'>'""•

w*y into his mercy.

Return with he t

following jraffage it feems a general term
for any thing put to an ill ufe, or per-

the wind

to break fliort.

;

fall down, and knee ilie

•Ti 1 the (htewd fool by thriving too too faft.
DryJe«Like .Slop's fo» becomes a piey at laft.
In the
t. Mifchievous tricks or praftices.

round about it,
•tojnd, environed with higher hilh

whereby the heat of the fun ii pent in, and

difpontioiii are Uie

To
To Knee. 1: a. [from the noon.]
fupplicate by kneeling.
Uo you that banifli'd him, a mile before hit t«at

the more knavery to conceal it.
Sbakeff. ff/xier'a Tale.
The cunning courtier (hoaid be flighted too.
Who with dull kaj^'iry makes fo much ado;

Knap. n.f. \cnafi_ Wel(h, a protuberance,

a proor a broken piece; cnxp. Saxon,
A protuberance, a fwcUing
tuberance.]

fittcft limber to nikt
great politicks of: like to *»« timber, that iigsod
tbrlhips that are to be tolled } but not for building
Baii>i.
houfcs, that fliall ftand hrm.

Such

Here's no knavery) Sec to keguite the old folks,
how the 'young foUu lay their heads together.
Sbakefpetre.
If I thought it were not a piece of honeftvto
it
, 1 hold it
acquaint the king withal, I would do

A hard luiot in

retained in Scothnd.

KNE

KNE

KN A

A hite is a piece of timber growing
crooked, and fo cut that the trunk and
branch make up an angle.
Mtxeni Mtch, Exer.

thaw

Or as a lute, which in moift wealhrr ringt
Her knelt alone, by cracking of her (Iriogs. Donnt.
Unhappy (lave, and pupil to a bell,
Which hK hours work, »« hour* do trti j
Unhappy 'till the laft, the kiud releafing kndl.
Coviley,

At

K N r
At dawn poor Sulla danc'd ind Tung;

Th« am'rous youih around her bow'U

:

This royal hand and mine are mv^\jknL;

There

And the conjunftion of our inward fouls

The preterite of ifojcw.

Kmfe.

fi./.

[cnip, Saxon ;

traordinary call.

Saittii.

Sbaki'fpeare.
It ye become peaceably, mine
heart fhall be knrt
"""yo"'
I Cbron. xii. 17.

fentativesof a county in parliament: he
formerly was a military knight, but now
any man having an eftate in land of fix

C*ine, thick night,
And pall thte is tht dtiondl I'moke of hell.

That my keen imff fse not the wound it makes.
Sbakfffijre.

the

next St.

Hayward.

ffclton.

t,onr.e, knit hands, and beat
the ground,
In a light fantaftick round.
Afilton.God gave feveral abilities to feveral perfons, that
each might help to fupply the publick needs,
and,
by joining to fill up all wants, they be knit
together
by juftice, as the parts of the world are by nature.
Taylor's Rule tf living Holy,
Nature cannot knit the bones where the parts are

Hayward.

Pope.

to knight every man of rank or fortune,
that he might be qualified to give challenges, to fight in the lifts, and to per-

[itom knight.']
Befitbefccming a knight.

-

tween us.

Sftnjcr.

Sir knight, if ittlgii tisou be,

Sper/rr.

When every cale io law is right.
No fquirtin debt, and no poor h.'igit.

Shakiffeare.

ahjifff. King Lear.

Vo fquire with knight ivi better tk
In parti, in manners, and in wit.

call

If you needs mult write, write Cafar's praife,

You'll gain at leaft a knighthood or the bays.
Hutii6ras.

Kni'chtless. fl^'. [irom knighi.]
coming a knight. Obfolete.
That had with

A champion.

Sbakiffeart.

Aa,.x.

ViKNIT. 1^. ».
1.

Aadraife the firltfedilioD?

To weave without a loom.
A

young (bepherdefs knitting and fir.ging: hervoice comforted her hands to work,
and her hands
kept time to Jier voice's mulick.

in queft of adventures.
Like a bold knighi errant did proclaim
Combat to all, and bore away the dame.

Deniam,

Won all their miftrefTcs in fights

Sbakrfpeure.

Knit. w,/.r rr
[from the verb.] Texture.
ir

Let their heads be (leekly corob'd, their blbe
coals
and their garters of an indifferent >/r/V.

tiufii'd,

UuJttrat

Errantry, [from knirht frrmit.\
The charafter or manners of wandering
*
knights.

out need kfs
ki

t

K« JCBT t>ftht Ptfi. A hireling evidence

•

/

a.
[from /{»//.] One who
weaves or knits.
The fpinftersand the knitter t in the fun.
And the three maids that weave their thread with
bones.

Do ufe to chant it.

Sbake/p. Tivelf-.h Night.

Kni'ttingneedle. n.f. [knit and wf<ft.]
A wire which women ufe in knitting.
He gave her a cuflf on the ear, (he would prlcfc
him with

IValler.

her knitiingneedle.

_lo join;
.

^bakefptare.

.

to unite.

Kni'ttl^.

A protuberance

a word of extenCve ufe ; it is
now Icfs
frequent.
His gall did grate for grief and highdifdain,

any part bluntly rifing

Kno'bbed.

atlj.
[from kmi.]
Set with
knobs having protuberances.
The horns of a roe deer of Greenland arc pointed
;

:

Are with a moft iuiii&luWc tye
»«r«|wX«/V.
Sh«keff, Macteth.

;

lull before the entrance of the right auricle of the
heart is a remarkable knot or bunch, raifed up from
the fubjacent fat.
/Jji.

O

Sbake/feare't Henry VI.
Lay your highncfs'
Command upon me ; to the which my duties

A firing
Ainfworth.

above the reft.

free.

Spaifer,
enemies, are all knit up
Jn theirdiftraaions they arc in my power.
Sbakeft.
^"^
let the Vile world end,
And the prcmifed flames of the laft day
Knii earth and heav'n together

[from knit.]

/.

KNOB. n.f. [cnzp, Saxon; knoo/>, Dutch.]

This was formerly

<
TL
1 hele, mme

n.

that gathers a purfe round.

•

Kkioht

a b. uulh fort of kmg/^t arrantry, feckiog

Kni'tter.

Ariiiihnoi's John Bull.

f^ai knitting all his force, got one hand

They cut whole giants into fritters.

To fut them into am'rouj twittcrt.

To tye.
.

3.

Sidnev.

Make the world dtftinguilh Julia's fon

From the vile offspring of a trull, that fits
By the town-wall, and for her living liw/j-. Dryden,
2. To join ; to clofe ; to unite.
Not ufed.
Our fcver'd navy too
Have knit again; and float, threat'ning moll fea.like.

lit j

Send for the county j go tell him of thit
I'll have this knot knit up to-morrow
morning.

A

wandering knight ; one who went about

Shakrff. Maibetb.

A thculaiid Cupids in thofe curli do

Dcnimm.

[devmlier errant.]

The ancient errant knigifts

Fairy Queen.

Thofe curious nets thy llender fingers knit.
2.

II,

Shakrffeert.

Balm of hart minds.

Di4 1 Sw this my country bring
To help their knig'jt aptm& their king,

3

Ke faw heaven opened, and a certain yeffel de..
fceiiding unto him, as it had been a great
(heet, knit
at the four corners,and let down to the e.irth.

To KNIT. -v. a. preter. init or knUted.
[cmrcan, Saxon.
J
To make or unite by texture, without a
1
loom.

DrayUM.

brew in

AJdifcrt,

.

To tie up.

5.

and treacherous

Sleep, that knitx up the ravell'd fleeve of care.
The birth of each day's Ufe, fore labour's bath,

So grievous was the pother
So that the i»/£^;itich other loft.
And flood as ftill as any poll.

eiicountcrj.

krighilefs guile,

Fair knighthood foully fliamed.

He fuddenly unties tht pcrke.
Which out of it fcnt fuch a fmoke,
As ready was them all to choke.

XyiGHT Errant.

Pope.

Unbe-

that knit thy

frowns.

train,

Pardon, goddcls of the night,

Thofe that flew thy virgin inigitf
For the whith, with fongj of woe,
Rovrnd about her tomb they go.

What are the thoughts

Arife, thou curied mifcrcanf.

its original

meaning, pupil or follower.

3.

who fome wafte wife to » in,
' Ben
Jonf.

A knighthood bought, togoa-wooing in

Dtmiel.

2. Shaif/peare nks it of a female, and it mull

underftood in

Is this the fir,

him

Wijeman's Surgery.

To contraft.

And turn thy eyes fo coldly on thy prince ?

Sidney.

Tlie fword which Merlin njjde,
For that his nourfling, when he knightiiiod fivore,
Therewith to doen his fees eternal ftnart.
Fairy ^ueen.
Speak truly on thy knigbtbooil, and thine oath,
And Io defend thee Heaven and thy valour.

That fame i»/g4('s ownfword tbisisafyare.

iiiighi; tut yet why ihouM I
knigbtf
To givx inpiety to this rev'rent ftile ?

4.

Let us take care of your wound, upon condition
that a more knigbily combat lhall be per.'brmed be-

:

This

under a difcharge.

attv.

^
How dares your pride prefume aeafoft
my laws
form feats of arms. In England knightAs in a lifted field to fight yourcaufe
hood confers the title oijir: &i,fir 1 hoUnafk'd the royal grant, no marihal by,
A'^ knightly rites require, nor judge to try.
mas, fir Richard. When the name was
Dryden.
not known, it was ufual to fay fir Kni'ghthood. w. /, \{iQvciknigkt.]
The
cbaf after or dignity of a knight.
knight.

Which Merlin made.

Bacon.

Tu
r .
Ihcle
two princes were agreeable to be joined in
marriage, and thereby knit both realms into
one.

The hero William, and the martyr Charles
One knighted li\iji]i.motc, andonepeufion'dOu.irles.

ting a knight ;

Hen Jonfon't Nrw Inn..

I

Ye knii my heart to you by alking this queftion.

mediately the king ftood up, took the fword from
the lord proteftor, and dubbed the lord mayor of

Km'oHTLT.

timbers,

H-'oiton't ArchitecJure.

impudence, in fsAion knit,

Ulurp the chair of wit

The lord protedtor knighted the king; and im-

a fervant or pupil.]

Abaodon this forellalled place.

i ride and

blow with a fword, and bids hiin rife
up/r.

London knight.

A

which make the roof.

a

Favours came thick tipon him :
George's day he was knighted.

Cnl. ii. ».

monftrate the firmed knitting! of the upper

who gives the perfon kneeling

the king,

their heart! might be comforted, being knit

He doth fundamentally and mathemitically de-

hundred pounds a-year is qualified,
o/. a. [from the noun.]
To
create one a knight, which is done by

KNIGHT, v.f. [cmbr. Sax. iwfi/,Gerra.
man adranced to a certain degree of
military rank. It was anciently the cuftom

I hat

togetlier in love.

ro Knight,

Bkft nowcn, forbid thy tender life
Should bleed upon a barbarous iai/i.
Crajha-w.
The facred priefls with ready ^flvV« bereave
The beaft of life, and in full bowls rfceive
The ftreaming Mood.
Dryden': Mn.
Ev'n in his tleep he ftarts, and fears the ktilft.^
KiA, trembling, io hi< arms takes his accomplice
wile.
Drjden.
Pain is not in the inife that cuts us : but we call
it catting in the knife, and pain only inourfclKs.

therefore be

Shakcff. King 'John.

By the fimplicity of Venus' doves.

By that which knitteth foul:, and pro.'pers Ijves.

An inftrument edged and Knights ef the Shire. One of the repre-

pointed, wherewith meat is cut, and animals killed.

I.

Married in league.

arc kitigiu

rf the foft, and holy cheats
enough, to fwear the truth of the bioadeft contradiftions, where pious frauds ihall give them jn ex-

Prior.

Knew.

^Imt. hinei.

K N O

a knight dubbed at the whippiiig port, or
pillory.

At night her fatal kxeliva ruiij ;
I faw, and kiC'J he- in her ibrowd.

inif, Diniih.]

K N I

at the top, a.nd knobbed or tuberous at the bottom.

Creiu.

Kno'bbiness. n.f. [from knobbj.l
quality of having knobs.

Kno'bby. <7(^'. [ixomknob.]
1.

Full of knobs.

2.

Hard; ftubboTO.

The.

.

The infennen continaei in a inMy kind ef oS-

«««•'•

Ts Knock, 'v. n. [cnueian, Saxon ; cruce,
blow. Weim.]
to

a

,

rioufly moved according to this
reeds knock and interteie.

for ftrangers to ftrike.
Shut, Ihut the door, good John ! faligu'd,
Tie up the iiucker, fay I'm lick, I'm deatL

To ring
v. a, [from knell.]
the bell, generally for a funeral.
Had 1 as many fons as 1 have haivs,
I would not wifh them to a fairer death
Sbakeff. Macielb.
And fo his knell is knolfj.

cathoUck law, muft
Be»tUy.
.

To beat, as at a door for admittance;

a.

commonly with at.

To fright them, ere deftroy.

Sbakrff. Coaolanus.

bid the rafcjl kna.k upon your gate,

1

OU youpanderly rafcals! there's a knot, a gang,

Aitijovorth.

tufty top.

1.

kmck'd,

under. A common expreffion,
4. To
which denotes that a man yields or fub-

Knock

mits. Subraiffion is exprclTed amoaggood
by knocking under the table.
commonly by a particle as, to
:

to knock

eafily to be difentangled.
He found that Reafon's felf nowreafons bound
To fallen knots, which fancy firft had found.
Sidney,

blows.
?

Why, by making him incapable of Othello's p ace
Shtktft. Othello.
knocking out his brams.
\
He that has his chains kmckfJ off, and the prilon
at liberty. Locke.
doors fet open to him, is perfettly
was, a fober Englithman would knock
'

Time

o'clock
,His I'errants uf, and rile by live
Inftruft his family in ev'ry rule,
_
^ .
And fend his wife to church, his fon to fchool. J off.
,

to collide

So when the cook law my jaws thus k«ock it.
She would have made a pancake of my pocket.

Cteaveluna

and pierc'd

his

bread;
,. t.
On the hard earth the Lycian knock'd his head.
Drydcn.
fled.
fpirit
ihe
lorih
and
And lay lupine ;
ft.uelmen.
' Tis the fport of
When hetoti knock their knotty heads together.

As the fair vcftal to the fountain came.

To Knock

jt.

2.

,

,

,

He began to iwor/t </ow« his fellow-citiiens with
a treat deal of leal, and to fill all

The way of foittme

the ftets of hoiifcs, and all equal
whereas unequal figures are but deBacon.
fo'rmiiies.
Our fea-wali'd garden, the whole land,
choked
Bowers
up,
her
faireft
Is full of weeds,
Shakejp. Rickard 11.
Her knots diforder'd.

Garden

Arabia with blood-

A man who isgrofs in a woman's company, out,ht
Clarijfa.

4,

To Knock oh the head. To
blow to deftroy.
He betook himfelf to his orchard, and walking
kill by a

;

m

South.
tie bead by a tree.
there was knocked
man on
ExcefF, either with an apoplesy, knocks a
ftronga
the bead; or with a fever, like fire in
waler-(hop, bums him down to the ground.
Grcvj'i Cofmol.

;

Brown'i fu/gjr Errors,
Ajax belabours there an harmlefs ox.

And
a.

thinks that Agamepinon feels the knocks.

Dryden.

A loud ftroke at a door for admiffion.
4

To Knot. v. it.

To form buds, knots, or joints in vege-

1

tation.
Cut hay when it begins to knot,
Mortimer's Hujhandry,

To knit knots for fringes.

Why left you wife and children,

Thofe 'precious motives, thofeftiong inowof love ?

Jinfivorih.
[knot zndgra/j; folygo-

A plant.
Sbake/p.

Kno'tted. adj. [from knot.] Full of knots.
The /i»i!/r^</oaks (hall fhow'rs of honey weep.
Dryden.

Kno'ttiness. «f,/. [from knotty.]

Fulriefs

of knots; unevenuefs; intricacy;

Sbakeff.

Not all that Saul could threaten or perfuade.
In this clofe knoi, the fmalleft loofenefs made.

diffi-

culty.
Virtue was reprefented by Hercules naked, with

a piece of wood caufed

by the protuberance of a bough, and
confequently by a tranfverfe direftion of

A

joint in an herb.
Taking the very refufe among thofe which ferved
and fall of
he had

to no ufc, being a crooked piece of wood,
knots, he hath carved it dilijenlly, when

nothing elfe ta do.

[chamartttDrus.]

Your minimus of hind'ring*«f»/gi-«/i made.

Shakeffeare.
he had continued to his country
himfelf
unknit
As he began, and not
Shakrfp. CorUlanus.
The noble knot he made.

thfc fibres.

». /.

A plant.
ttttm.]

I would

A hard part in

Sedley,

to perplex.

Kno'tcrass. »./.

At young Elizabeth, my brother's daughter.
And by ihatAao' looks proudly on the crown.

1.

;

The party of the papifts in England are kecoms
more knotted, both in dependence towards Spain, and
Bacon.
amongft themfelves.

Sbakefp. Henry VI.

Coivley,

perpendicutarth Ihould wave them from a knock
air above.
larly direfted fiom a body in the

z. To intangle
3. To unite.

Kno'tberkybush.

With nuptiaUifo/, ifihou vouchfafe togrant

a blow.

Some men never conceive how the motion of the

,

2.

Confirm that amity

'Knock. //. / [from the verb.]
I, A fudden ftroke

Happy we who from fuch queens are freed*.
That were always telling beads ;
But here's a queen when Ihe rides abroad

Prior.

Any bond of affociation or union.

Richmond aims
to be knocked down with a club.

To complicate in knots.

I.

Is always knotting threads.

Their quarters are contrived into elegant knots,
AUre.
Henry in kn'As involving Emma's name.
Fad half-exprefs'd, and half-conceal'd his flame
Upon this tree; and as the tender mark
Crew with the year, and widen'd with the bark,
Venus had heard the virgin's fofl addrefs,
That, as the wound, the pafTion might increafe.

That virtuous lady Bona.

like the milky way in the

meeting or knot

a

Drydm.

adorned with the mod beautiful flowers.

.

is

To Knot. 'v. a. [from the noun.]

It fed

Flow'rs worthy paradife, which not nice art
In beds and curious knots, but nature boon,

which

carry on the fame defign in a more inferior manner.

knots,

figures, pleafe :

is

of. a number of
fmall lUrs, not feen afunder, but giving light togeB.icon't EJfays.
ther.
In a piSure, befides the principal figures which
compofe it, and are placed in the midll of it, there
are lefs groups or knots of figures difpofed at proper
diftances, which are parts of the piece, and feem t»

Iky,

And gather'd in a knot her flowing hair. Add'ifon.
Any figure of which the lines frequently
interfeft each other.

^''"''•

_ ,„
doivn. To fell by a blow.

And fall by one another.

Addifon's SfeSator,

A clutter; acollcftion.

8.

Pout'd forth profufe on hill and dale, and -plain.
Milton.

with a Iharp noife.

lanc'd his fpear,

admirers, »lu>
make requcit that you would give notice of tlic
window where the knight intends lo appear.

To take the frefhneis of the morning air,

r a. u
To afied or change in any tefpeft by

am now with a knae of his

I

Let none be llartled at a veftal's name,
Tir'd with the walk, (he laid her down to reft;
And to the winds eipos'd her glowing breaft.

To Knock. a'.<7.

At him he

L'Efirango.

A complication of a cord or firing not

•fellows

;

A

of a gentleman upon the king's highway.

;

Iword. Dryden.

ftrike
f. To da(h together; to

an alTociation; a fmail

a confpiiacy againll me.
Shakefp. Merry Halves rfH'indfor.
What is there here in Rome that can delight thee ?
Where not a foul, without thine own foul kntit.
Ben jfonfon's Calallnt.
But tears and hates thee.'
knot oi'gojd-fellows borrowcu a turn of mo.icy

If thole fair fatal eyesedg'd not your

'.lovi do you mean removing him

;

Ain/iuorth.
Knoll, n.f. A little hill.
Knop. w./. [A corruption of i{»«/.] Any

Dij/dcn.

I.

A confederacy
band.

Kot one ol all the tlkoufand but was lock'd.
foul,
ICnoct at your own bread, and alk your

;

which svas the knot of the play untied^ the
thccompafsoffome few lines,

reft is Ihut up in

Diyden's Dtifrefnoy.

Knop. »./. {^ranunculus.] A flower.
Knot. n.f. [cnotta, Saxon; knot, GtTman kmttte, Dutch; ^;/i5//c, Erfe.J

knock up, to roufe by knocking
down, to fell by a blow.

When Ihe difcovcry was made that the king was
living,

Sbakefpeare.

Sbakefprart,

Followed

affltirs.

1.

ever you have look'don better day?,
If ever been where bells have knoli'd to church.

And couM not get liim for my heart to do it.
For harbour at a thoufand doors they

Any intrigue, or difficult perplexity of

1 1

Shukefpcare.

Whether to knock againft the gates of Rome,
Or rudely vifit them in parts remote,

South' s Sermons.

venture a great concern.
1.

To found as a bell.

To Knoll, a'. ».

Villain, 1 fay, knuk me at this gate,
knave's pate !
; or Til knock your

And rap' me «-ell

way focver the chuice determines, a man is lure to

Pofe.

Knoll,

r<7

Charles.

A man fliall be perplexed with knots and problems of bulincfs, and contrary afTaiis, where the
determination is dubious, and both pans of the
contrariety fecm equally weighty ; fo thit, which

laid.

I

A.''<rg

Difficulty ; intricacy.

.

2. The hammer which hangs at the door

.contiguous, without knoikhg, givcth no '"'[=•
Haccn'i h'.uural HiJlory<
the atoms ol the chaos beiug va-

They may fiv,

,5

He that knocks.

1

body

Any hard body thrift forwards by another

here as it might do in Scotland.

Kno'cker. »./. [doea knock.]

r ..
.
be dnven ludtienly to,

To claflij

Sueh knelt andcrofTnefs of grain is obje^i'here,
as will hardly fuffer that form, which they cry up
here as the only juft rcformaiion, togoon Ibfmoaihly

Ouifcard, in hi leathern frock,
Siood ready, with his ihricc -repeated kmei I
Thrice with a doleful found the jarring grate
Dryden't Boccaee
^ Rung deaf and ho'.bw.

names of ihe
ftuucY, lefoWiog ftiU vo conceal the
.author,.

I.

K N O

K N O

K N O

"^t/*-

his lion's (kin and knotted club: by hisoakenclub
appetite ; the knottinefs
is lignihed reafon ruling the
thereof, the difficulty they have that fcek after virtue.

Peacbam on Drawing.

Kno'tty. adj. [fromi»o/.]
I.

Full of knots.
1

have feen tempefts, when the fcolding winds

Uavf riv'd the knotty oaks.
Shetkeffearc's Julius Ctrfar.

Ihe

K N O

KN O
laying the ear at the other ; for
»oice will not pafs we'I.

if it be knotty, the

Baeon,

The kmtlj oaks th>.<.- lift'ning branches bow.

I

Rofcothmon.

Arm'd with a knoiij club another came.
Dryden^s ^tt,

Whet« the vales with violets once were crowii'J,

Now kmtiy burrs and thorns difgrace the ground.
DryJen.

Not to'be ignorant.

2.

When they know within themfelves they fpeak
of that they do not well kntrw, they would nevcrthelefs feem to others to k^tow of that whiclt tht-y
may not well fpeak.

Hard; rugged.

perplexed; difficult; embar-

King Henry, in the very entrance, of his reign,
jnct with a point of great difBculty, and knotty to
folve, able to trouble and confound the wifell king,.
Bacon.
putting intricate quef.
tions, and he that was the beft at the untying of
L'EJirange.
i««(/y difficulties, carried (he priw.
Some on the bench the knotty laws untie. Diyi.
They compliment, they fit, they chat,
flcill

To KNOW. V. a. preter. / Ine^y I ha-vt
kntnun. [cnapan, Saxon.]

To perceive with certainty, whether intuitive or difcurfive.
O, that a man might knma
The end of this day's bufinefs ere it come ! Sbak.
The memorial of virtue is immortal, becaufe it is
IVifd, iv. i.
knoTvn with God and with men.
Milton.
The gods all things know.
Not from experience, for the world was new.
He only from their caufe their natures knew.

Sbakcj'f.

heavier than common quickfilver.

Fair Hermia, (jueftion your delires.
Know c/'your youth, examine well your blood.
Whether, if you yield not to your father's choice,

You can endure the livery of a nua.

:

Locke.

To be informed of; to be taught.

2.

Ye (hall be healed, and it (hall be known
why his hand is not removed from you.

to you

fcible ; poflible

Knower.

To diftinguilh.
Numeration is but the adding of one unit more,
and giving to the whole a new name, whereby to
knovj it from thofe before and after, and dillinguilh
it fiom every fmalUr or greater multitude of unit:;.
Li'cke,

To recognifc.
What art thou, thus to rail on me, that is neither

Bentley.

>!./,

;

to be

familiar

with.

Skilful ; well inftrufted ; remote from
ignorance.
You have heard, and with a knowing ear,
That he, which hath our noble father Uain,
Shakeff. t^amlet.

The knoTvingeJl of thcfc have of late reformed

'

Do but fay to me what 1 Ihould do,
That m youc knowledge may by me be done.
And I am preft unto it.
Shake//,. AT»rcbant tfP'enice.

Learning; illumination of the mind.

2.

Ignorance is the curfc of God,
Knowledge the wing wherewith we fly to heav'ii.

Shakeff,

Skill in any thing.
Shopmen that have knowledge of the fea.

3.

Kings,
4. Acquaintance with any fa<S or perfon.
The dog ftfaight fawned upon hia mafter for oI4
Sidney,
_

Cognifance

5.

notice.

;

Wliy have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou
(houldll take knowledgeoi me, feeing I am altranger >
Ruth.

A ftate's anger fliould not take
Knowledge either of fools or women.

Bex Jon/on,

Information; power of knowing.

6.

pulled off my headpiece, and humbly entreated
her pardon, or knowledge why the was cruel. Sidney.
I

To Kno'wledge. v, a. [notinufe.]
acknowledge to avow.

To

;

The prophet Hofea tells us that God faith of the
Jews, they have reigned, but not by me: which
provcth plainly, that there are governments which
God doth not avow for though they be ordained by
his fecret providence, yet they are not knowtedged
by his revealed will.
Bacon's Holy Har.

in their profelTion, unfpoticd

Who, by the art of krtitvn and feeling (brrows.
Sliakefj,, King Lear
Am pregnant to good pity.
6, To converfe ivith another fcx.

in their

liv«s,

adtive

South.

and laborious in their charges*

The neceffity of preparing for the offices of rel igion
was a lelTon which the mere light and

diiflatcs of

common reafon,

without the help of revelation,
the kno'wing and intelligent part of the
Soutli's Sermon.

world.
to fortune's blows.

To Knubble.

Bcllino, one of the fird who was of any confidcration at Venice, painted very drily, according to the

manner of hit time

:

he was very knowing both in

artfaitcAure and pcifjpettivc.

'V,

a.

\knipler,

Danifli.j

'

To beat.
Skhtner.
KNU'CKLE. «./. [cnucle, Si^on; hwckk,
Dutch.]

The joints of the fingers protuberant

1.

Thus often at the Temple-ftairs we've fcca
Twotritons, of a rough athletick mien.
Sourly difpute fome quarrel of the flood.
With knuckles btuis'd, and face bcfmeaf 'd in )>Iood.
GarlA.

The knee joint of a calf.

2.

Jelly, which they ufed for a reftorative,

Beyle.

What makes the clergy glarlout is to be knowing

lati^ht all

What are you ?

— A moft poor man, made tame

fpeculativelaculties, confifts in the perception of the
truth of affirmative or negative propofitions.
Locke.

when the fingers clofe.

I .

their hypothefis.

To be no ftranger to

Atterburj,

Certain perception ; indubitable appre.
henfion.
Knowledge, which is the highcft degree of the

Kko'winc. adj. [from knotju,^

(ow he was knonvn of them in breaking of bread.
At nearer view he thought he knciu the dead.
Flatman.
And call'd the wretched man to mind.
Milton.
Tell me how 1 may >/!•!«» him.

One who

I know the refpedt and reverence which in this
addrcfs I ought to appear in before you, who are a
Soulberne,
general knower of mankind and poetry.

Purfu'd my life.

Luke, niv. 35.

[from /twoou.]

has Ikill or knowledge.
If we look on a vegetable, and can only fay 'tis
Glanville.
cold and dry, we are pitiful knowers.

Sbukfff.
known oi thcp, nor iwo-U'r thee ?
They told what things were done in the way, and

;.

fpeak knowingly.

I

Kno'wledge. n.f. [from jf»o<w.]

:

Sam. vi.

revelation,

4.

to be difcovcred or un-

Glanville.
than in lefs acknowledged myfteries.
'Tis plain, that under the law of works is comprehended alfo the law of nature, knotcuble by
reafon, as well as the law given by Mofcs.
Locke.
Thefe two arguments are the voices of nature,
the unanimous fuiTragcs of all real beings and fubftanccs created, that are naturally knowMe without

3.

3.

often as he entered upon any bufinefs of confequence ;

Shakeff.

Cogno-

[from kno'w.'\

derftood.
Thtfc are refolved into a confefled ignorance, and
and I fhall not purfue them to their old afylum ;
and yet it may be, there is more knoiuable in thefc,

Led on with a defire to knoTu
Milton.
What nearer might concern him.
One would have thought you had knotvn better
things than to expert a kindncfs from a common
L'EJirange.
enemy.

I

Dryden.

knowledge.

For ay to be in a Ihadycloiller mew'd.

Kno'wable.

i;|ight defend their inclination by their

To the private duties of the clofct he repaired, as

7« Know of.

In Shaie/peart, is to take
5.
cognifance of; to examine.

it,

reafon.

Boylr.

He faid the water itfelf was a good healthy water ;
but for the party that own'd it, he might have more
difeafcs than he knerufor.
Shakeff. Henry IV.

Mo'e,

They who were rather fond of it than knowingly
admired

79 Know for. To have knowledge of.
A colloquial expreflion.

Denbam.

We doubt not, neither can we properly fay we
think we admire and lore you above all other men
there it a certainty in the proportion, and ne
Drydin.
inna it.
When a man makes ufe of tlie name of any fimple
idea, which he perceives is not underAood, he is
obliged by the laws of ingenuity, and the end of
fpccch, to malceimivn what idea he makes it Oand

world.

1

There is but ana mineral body, that we know of,

adj.

.

with knowledge.
He knowingly and wittingly brought evil info the

kins and aprons, and Sir John mull uot knov.' of it

4.

.

Let him be fo entertaln'4 as fuits gentlemen of
your kniwing to a liranger of his ijuality. Sbakrfa,

The prince and Mr. Poins will put on our jer-

Prior.

for.

ledge.

Ikill ;

To be informed.

3.

Fight o"er the wars, reform the Itate

A thoufand knotty poiots they clear,

1.

U

Kko'wingj.y. (7ii'i'. [from^acww^.J With

Milton.
In the other world there is no conHderation that
wiUilingourconfciences more cruelly than this, that
we did wickedly, when wsknezu to have done better ;
and chofe to make ourfclves miferable, when we
Tillatfon.
tnderftood the way to have been happy.
They might undcrftand thofe excellencies which
they blindly valued, fo as not to be farther impofcd
upon by bad pieces, and to know when nature was
Dryden.
well imitated by the moft able mafter^.

in

Till fupper and my wife appear.

Confcious ; intelligent.
Could any but a knowing piudent caufft
Begin fiich motions and alTign fuch laws?
the Great Mind had form'd a different frame.
Might not yourwanton wit the fyllcm blame.
Bltttkm^e.
Kno'wing. n, f. [from knotjii.\ Know*
2,

Is the prime wifdom.

raffed.

Princes eiercifrd

All animals of the fame kind, which fcrm a (!••
c'efy, aremore kns'.uing than oihcr!,
Addi/i.tt

Bmcs/i.

Not to know^ of things remote, but kncuf
That which before us lies in daily life,

Valiant fools
Wer« made by nature for the wife to work with :
They are their tools ; and 'tis the fport of llatefmen,
When heroes knock their knotty hcids together,
And fall by one another.
RoTve^s iimhithui Stepmother.

3. Intricate;

iS«jw of a furety, that the Lord hath fent liij

angel, and delivered me out of the hand of Herod.
Aclt.

One with a brand yet burning from the tfame,

2.

K N U

And Adam hnnu Eve his wife,
Cenef,:.
To Know. t,-. ». «.
1. To have clear, and certain perception
not to be doubtful,

Tfce tisnbsr in Tome trees more clean, In fome
more iii't'y ' "/ 't tiy fpeaking at one end, and

D'yden.

made of knuckles of veal.
3.

is chiefly

Bacon's Na ural lliJI.

The articulation or joint of a plant.
Divers herbs have jbints or knuckles, as it wefc
in Iheir germination
as gillyflowers, pinks,

flops

and corn.

:

Bacon,

To Knu'ckle. 'V, rt. [from the noun.] To
fubmit: 1 funpofe from an odd cuftom
of ftriking the under fide of the table
with the knuckles, in confcfllon of an
ar^umental defeat.

Knu'ckleu

Kvu'cKLED. adj. [from kituci!e.'\

Jointed.

The retd or cane U a witry plant, and growelh
not but in the water, it hath thefe Drooerties, that
hollow, and it it knuckitJ both ftalk and root
than
that, being dry, it is more hard and fragile
dher wood ; that it putteth forth no boughs, though
it

U

many ftalks out of one toot.

Knuff.
kuave.

n.

/

[perhaps

Of. the fame

K Y D

K N ir

K N U

An old word preferred in « rhyme of

KuNED for knew,

prediftion.

To Kyd. T.'. ». [corrupted probably from
cuB Saxon.] To know.

The country knufft, Hob, Dick, and Hick,
With clubs and clouted (lioon.
Shall till up Dul&ndale
With Qaughtet'd bodies foon.

But ah, unjuft andworthlefs Colin Clout,

Hajrumrd.

In./, [knor. German,] A
Knur.
knot ; a hard fubllancc.
j
Knurle.
corrupted from
The ftony nodules found lodged in the ttrafa, are
Bacon's Nat. Hijl.

with cbuff.^

A lout.

called by (lie woilUBCQ hutrt and kno(t«

Sffu/er.

That kydj} the hidden kinds of many a weed ;
Yet kydJI not one to cure tliy fore heart root,
Whofe riukline wound as yet doth rifely bleed.
Sfvjtr

ffoetiw.

END OF THE FIRST YOLUMK.

f

~)

F

t3^^fr£".

